104-10308-10157

C1 UNCLASSIFIED ASP aaiits pez ~ CO AONBRENTIAL Sy) SECRET
eae ROUTING A AND RECORD SHEET Be a
SUBJECT:. (Optional) Background u.
‘ + : Do Not Reproduce

mev/er/sp mleieere ac ahes

TO, [Ofer designation, room numba, ond
Porirua ate aaeucari boo orricer’s | COMMENTS (Number each comment to thow from whom
INITIALS” | to whom. Draw @ line across column after each comment)

RECEIVED | FORWARDED

Sich f ee

apprepriate

Aisep bn7t file.

_ 19-20-18...

f~ mnie pe

TOM, 610 “ites C] SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL, =] UNCLASSIFIED

Gro 961 0~s93646

‘

«in


€ ; secaur Cy begs
to. AA-134 :

No celoats at Ll July 1902

EAO FLOM ERRNO. Aric T-2 8cr Area

SUBJECT: Interview of Juan FALCON Tamar, under arrest in Cuba, alleged National

Coordinator of the "Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria" (M.R. 2)
in Cuba.

SOURCE: Cuban "RADIO REBELDE" station, 17 July 1962, 8:00 PM.

" fhe prisoner is introduced by Luis GOME4 Wanguemert, and the panel of
nowspapermen is composed by: Carlos FQANQUI, Director of "REVOLUCION" newspaper,
and iaul VALDES Vivo, Sub-Virector of "HOY" newspaper. .

GOMEZ: You are here before newspapermen to answer qucstions out of your own free
will, or have been cocrced in any way to come tonight?

FALCON: Completcly voluntarily.

GONEZ: Then would you like to make us a narration of your activities in the H.R.

FALCON: The M.R.e. was founded in late 1959 by Manuel ARTINE and a scrics of other
“elements. In those days I began as a rank member, working in the propaganda
field. I used to write a bit in the newspaper of the Movement, and also
distributed the newspaper and other things, and more or less in that way.
Of thet period I have little to say because I was a rank member and had
no access to the plans of the Movement. After Giron, after the 17th of
April Playa Giron Invasion, most of the members of the exccutive of the
Movement went into asylum or left Cuba. Then those of us who wore rank

members passed to occupy the positions of the directive to try to reorganize
it. In this case I entered the directive of the Movement. It is then that
I can talk with more details about the directive of the Movement. I think
that you should ask me about something specifically.

FRANQUI: After Playa Giron you entered the direction of the N.R.8., and what position
did you first occupy in that direction?

FALCON: First I was Organization Secretary and later I became the National Director
of the Movement.

FRANQUI: What main ocounterrevolutionary activitics did you Zplural7 accomplish after
Playa Giron?

We engaged in performing a series of sabotages, such as burning the "Petro-
quimica" of Cotorro. A plan to destroy national transport in general.

We destroyed 3 buses of Route 33. We also had a plan for the systematic
destruction of the economy which included, among other things, the poisoning
of cattle.

SECRET



13-00000

“aa-13!,
GONEZ:

FALCON:

VALDES:

FALCON:

Gouinz:

FALCON:

‘ GC Sucker. ee ,
18 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)
What can you tcll.us about the assassination attumpt against Carlos iiafael
RODRIGUEZ?
We learned through the newspapers that Carlos liafacl was going to give a
lecture in the "Fausto" theater of Matanzas. We surmised that ho was going
to go by the Via Blanca highway and we set up a surveillance. ‘hen Carlos
Rafael left an automobile of ours was traveling ahead of him and made a sign
to an individual whom we had posted on the highway, indicating that Carlos
Rafael's automobile was coming behind. Then the individual tricd to
intercept the automobile and he was shot.at, with the known results that the
individual whom we had posted there was killed.
You have said something in relation to counterrevolutionary activities.

Who organized these activities? Was there some connection between the
and the Central Intelligence Agency?
At first during a stage we thought... Let me explain a bit in detail.
We thought that we could carry out this fight alone, but little by little
we became aware that we were falling into the hands of the North American
Government and that they helped us, not with disinterest but with the
interest of again controlling the Republic as they had controlled it until
1 January 1959.
And how far did the intervention of the Central Intelligence Agency reach
in the Movement which you directed?
Well, it reached quite a high degree. Tor cxample, to appoint a directive
in recent days, or the chicf of a national sccrctariat of the Movement, we
had to make a consultation over there to sec if they approved or disapsroved
the individual. Another cxample waich I could give you so that you might
realize the degree of subjection which we nave reached with rogard to thom,
is that in the problem of communications we had always been concerned with
being able to communicate with the Movement abroad, that is, with the M.tete
in exile. For this objective once we thought of buying radio and radio
telegraphy equipment to communicate dircctly with them over there. lowever,
we could not do it because the pcople from over there told us that if the
Ancricans would learn that we were communicating with then directly without
counting on the C.I.A. that we were going to have a big problum and that
they would cut off all assistance. To communicate over there we had a
telegraphy plant, radio-telegraphy, which communicated directly with a C.I.A.
=2=

SHC ager


SECu4uT

JA-134, lo Jul o2, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

FRANQUI

FALCON:
FAANQUI

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

VALDES:

FALCON:

base. Then through this base we would pass the messages which we wanted

to send to the Movement. Out of that message the Americans would tcll what
they wanted to the members of the Movement, and kecp to themselves what thcy
did not want to say. And if they wanted our people could not send a message
to us from over therc.e In view of this we tried to establish direct
communications without C.I.A. intermediation. However, it was not possible
for us to do this. Apparently they did not permit it.

You said that you had become organized because you were going to fight against
the revolution of the people.

Yes.

dnd then you referred to the intervention of impcrialism's C.I.A. When did
that happen? Before Playa Giron or after?

Well, an exact date cannot be determined. It was rather a gradual process
which grew more and more.- And lately we were practically.... Well, later
they convinced us that the Revolution was practically invincible.

And to what do you attribute the invincibility of the Revolution?

To a very large popular support.

You speak of the connection with the Central Intelligence Agency. What
resources was the C.I.A. facilitating to you?

Well, in the first place it gave us money. Part of the money with which we
functioned we raised here, and part camc from over there at first. By this
time practically everything was coming from over theres

Did the collections which you have over here decrease?

Yes. For example, another connection is a tclegraphy plant, the one which
I mentioned previously and which we used to communicate with them over there.
Facilities to exfiltrate persons from Cuba, that is, clandestine elements,
individuals who were "burned". ‘this was on the basis of ships which cane to
pick them up and many promises of arms, sabotage matcrials, and another
series of things.

You mentioncd ships. What hind of ships?

Well, some boats which come here.

Did they come here to the coasts of Cuba?

Yess

Where did they come from?

From Miami.

Manned by whom?



13-0000

= sEuceR

7 : iT f
('MA-134, 13 Jul 62, Carlo$ BLANCO (cont.) : €
“FALCON: Well, in some cases by menbers of the Movement, and in other cases by
North Ancricans.—
FRANQUI: You mentioned communications. What type of equipment did the C.I.A. give you?
FALCON: A telegraphy equipment of the oncs which they use for their espionage

GOES:
FALCON:

VIVO:
FALCON:
VIVO:
FALCON:

activities in other countries. It is a non commercial tclegraphy cquipment.
A small equipment which can operate practically anywhere. We used this

to communicate with over there on the basis of a telegraphy system in code
directly to a C.I.A. base. :

And what about the assassination plot against Major Raul CASTAO with the
participation of Guantanamo Naval Base?

Well, that was the 26th of July of last year. That wasn't specifically a plan
of ours. It.was a plan invented by the C.I.A. with the participation of some
organizations, ours wasn't the only onc. The plan contemplated various parts.
That is, it contemplated an assassination attempt against Fidel and the
Cabinet which was going to gather in the Civic Plaza on the 26th of July of
last year. On the other part it included an assassination attempt against
Raul CASTRO in Santiago de Cuba and nother series of sabotages correlated to
this, such as paralyzing the “lectric Company, a self-aggression in
Guantanamo Naval Base, and a few other smaller scale things.

And there was no participation in the plans to burn the "Petroquimico" of
Cotorro?

Yes, that was done by our organization.

Could you give me an explanation about the sabotage of the "Petroquimica"
of Cotorro?

Well, there we used materials manufactured by us. Practically no materials
received from abroad, that is from the U.S», were used there. A chemical
preparation of some capsules which burned immediately was made.

What other sabotage plans did you have?

That of destroying some “Compania de Omnibus Aliados" bus company plants.

We have the plan for the systcmatic destruction of the cconomy, which
contemplated, among other things as I alrcady told you, poisoning cattle
with potasium cyanide.

And how did you burn buses?

With incendiary cigarctto cases.

Sinulating cigarette packs?

Yes, more or less.

“\ abe



13-000!

aes nt ndlaep Rae

AA-13%, 18 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

PAANQUI:

FALCON:
FRANQUI:

FALCON:
FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

FaANQui:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:
FALCON?

€* SECRET €

You have nentioned a series of counterrcvolutionary actions performed by

you. You nave mentioned that you had a certain success in that of Cotorro.
You failed in the assassination attempt of Crrlos Rafacl and could not
accomplish the assassination attempts of the leading figures of the evolution

Which causes prevented you from accomplishing them?

We didn't have time. The Department of Security of the State arrested
practically all of us.

But those assassination plots happened in different tines.

No, we were planning that now.

But, for example, that assassination attemmt with the participation of
organization by the C.I.A., and in which various, counterrevolutionary organ~
izations participated, such as the one of the 26th of July. What prevented
its accomplishment?

The same reason. ‘The Departnent of Security of the State arrestcd all key
individuals a fcow days carlicr.

‘hat is, in various cases and in various sabotage plans which you had, the
Department of Security of the State anticipated you and arrested those who
were in conplicity to accomplisa them?

In many of then.

You used to face many difficulties. regarding the accomplishment of these
plans. How did you feel? Wasn't it ditficult for you to accomplish tiese -
actions?

Well, a plan must be studicd and an attompt must be made to carry it out.
That is, a surveillance of the individual must oc sect up and see what is tie
most appropriate place to carry it out, and sce whether it is possible or not.
Yes, that is natural in any type of action of that nature. But I was referrin:
to the fact that the percentage of actions whici you have accomplished is very
small, and het you attemptcd many, and you say that one of the causes is that
the Department of Security of the State intervened in time. But is there any
other cause which prevented you from accomplishing counterrevolutionary
activitics?

Well, in general a series of difficultics, such as the discouragement among
the ranks of the movement.

Caused by what?

Caused by tae subjection to the North Anerican Central Intelligence Agency.
Undoubtedly, we were fighting not with the idea of being subjected to a

. -5-

7 - “gu eRaT


13-000!

|
|

4

>

secant €
. ‘Ated ah 10 Jul 02, Ge BLANCO’ (cont’s) -

forcign power to-whom in the future we would again have to surrender the
nation to thom. his help which they would promise to give us and which
they gave us gradually, was being conditioned. That is, it may be said
that we naively thought they would give it to us with disinterest, that is,

without asking anything in return. But later we rcalized that it wasn't so,

‘that they were giving us this help in exchange for something, in cxchange

FRANQUI 3
FALCON:

FRANQUI:
FALCON: ©

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

that in the future we would surrender our sovereignty and our nation to them.
For this reason arose a sort of discouragement among tiie ranks of the Hovenent
until about the end of last year we even thought of dissolving the Hovement
completely.

But the Playa Giron failure wasn't also a determining factor?

Yes, Playa Giron was one of the determining causes. ‘hat is, the destiny

of North Amcrican Imperialism was also scen in ?laya Giron.

Although it was also seen how popular it is to fight against the evolution.

Yes, aaahee rte ts cee Invasion which was crushcd in less than 12 hours.

‘And whon/zauxaxniyed at the conclusion that you were serving as instrument

of the United States and of North American Imperialism?

Well, already quitc some time ago. The problem is that one becomes aware of
it but it seoms that it is too late to turn back. I would lixe to stress
this. Basically that is one of the reasons why I asked to come here. The
majority of the conspirators who are now on the streets, the rank members
of our Movement who are still on the strects, nave a difficrent idea about the
fight. That is, they think that we are not really what we are, a branch of
the North American Central Intelligence Agency. ‘Then they think that and .
continue in the fight. However, those of us who are in the direction,

and I say taat for my case specifically, when I was a rank member of the
jovenent and cngagcd in distributing propaganda, when I would spend the
entire day distributing propaganda from morning till night, and when I
finished I believed that I had done a great deal for Cuba, I believed that
I had worked terribly lard for Cuba and that I had done the best which I
could and had been working for a just cause. ‘hon I became a directive of

the Movenent I realized that it wasn't so, and now I realize that we were

completely subjected to North American Imperialism and that.w re not going

to attain any of the ideas, any of the objectives for which we were fighting.
pay ie
sacnadgt
\
\
cee |

\


13-00000

my

Ge sucaer Cc

“AA-134, 15 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

VIVO:

FALCON:

"RANQUI:

FALCON:

FRANQUI:
FALCON:
Vivo:
FALCON:

FRANQUI:

FALCON:
FRANQUI:
FALCON:
SUANQUI:
FALCON:
VIVO:

FALCON?

Of course, it isn't necessary to say that us comrades here belicve in

the candor of themmbers of that countcrrevolutionary organization as much
as we believe in the disintercst of the Central Intclligence Agency. In
order to avoid entering into an unnecessary debate we want to specify that
you have spoken of assassinations, of sabotages against popular cconony.
What participation have you had in the assistance of bands of insurgents

who made the Escanbray a knife....of the country?

Well, practically the same participation as the other organizations. That is,
if we could give a basically financial assistancc, because we had nothing
else, we would give it to them, if we were able.

But you mentioned here that the collections which you obtained from internal
counterrevolutionary groups had greatly decreasca, decause you had to resort

more cach time to the help which you received from the United States. In what
form did you reecive that assistance?

The assistance was roceived on the basis of changes, that is, change
operations. They would place "X" dollars over there to a private individual
over there and we received the equivalcnt here from anothcr individual.
They! Whom?

The Americans.

How did the change of currency affect these operations?

Well, at that time it didn't affect us very much. We changed practically
all the money which the Movement had. We put all the militants of the Movemen
to change money. i

In ilavana, did the docrcase of/ your collections have anything to do with
the fact that the elements of the rich and bourgeois class left for the U.S?
I think that in a large part.

That is, you reecived money from rich people?

Yes.

And when those people left you had less collections?

Practically, yes.

Do you want to say something about psychological warfarc, about the problen
of the rumors?

Yes. I am going to say something about the propaganda of that affair of
parental authority over children. In gencral we had a big participation

in that affair because ve sinecrely launched a propaganda campaign trying
to make them desperate with that rumor which had been started regarding

parental authority. 7


| i
i

we

a :
€ “SECRET. €

Ad-134, 13 Jul o2, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

ive
BALCOH:

Giza:

FALCON:
GO:
PALCO:
FRANQUI:

FALCON:

FALCON:

FALCON:
GQiEZ:
FALCON:

FRANQUI?

Do you now this instrus at?

Yos, it is a stamp for fals. driver's licons.s.

That is, for the forgery of this type of driver's license. And this type

of drivéir's licenscs which you used, where was it made, here or in the U.S?
In the U.s.

It was sent to you by the Central Intslligenee Agency?

Yes.

You’ have mentioned a serics of activitics regarding explosives, assistanec,
conmunications, you also said that the plans had to ae discussed by the C.I.A...
training of directives, and you also mentioned the poisoning of livestock.
Could you give us an cxplanation?

You know that there ig a moat shortage and that “this is a vroblea now faced
by the Revolution. ‘then we tried to cooperate to that. That is, it is a
sort of a plan to systematically destroy the econony.

That is precisely what I wanted to come to, because no one paid any attention
to Reinold. Then everyone thought that up to a certain point einold had not

becn sincere. ‘that is, that ne had come here cozrecd by the Department of

Security of the ate to maxe that appearanc:.

Do you allow me a question? Do you have a different opinion now?

Completely different?

Why?

In view of the treatment which I have reecived in the Department of Security
of the State and in view of the methods which I have scen them usc. -icinold
Said that he nad been under surveillance for siz months, and no one belicved
ite No one believed that a national coordinator of the movement would be
kept six months on the streets undcr surveillance. I can affirm that I nave
been under surveillance for nine months. In the Department of Cecourity of tie

State they proved my life since nine months ago. They have told me things,

such as the brand of cigarettes which I smoicd up to the movie theater which
I usually visited.

I want to say something to you, because maybe now another counterrevolutionary
deceived as you say or believe, is going to thin: about you the same which you
thought about fcinold. Then we are going to leave the evidence for the next
time when you come here, because little by little everyone has seen how all
counterrevolutionary organizations are being liquidated by the revolution.
That is, in the end what matters is not the appreciation of what you said or
did not say, wnat matters are the presentations.

¢

ei


oo : c “SECRET, C
Afi-134, 1 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)
FALCON: I belicve, iy. PMANQUI, that when they sec these two eases people will pay
nore attention to us.
FRANQUI: But it isn't two cases. Tuerc are many more. They tried to rise in the
“scaabray and they were crushed. They cam: to Playa Giron and they were
| erushed. They attempted sabotages in ':1 Encanto" store, etc. and they were
| i liquidated. cinold came and he was liquidated. ‘hey have attemptod to
: infiltrate through different parts of the country and have been liquidated.
So it isn't two cases, but many more. :
FALCON: But look, the problem of the individual who is now conspiring in the stroets
is that he cannot turn back. That is, ne has only two ways out: leave the
country or try to continuc fighting to sec if he wins.
GORE: You believe that they nave another way out in addition to those two?
FALCON: I an sure they do. ‘The Dopartucnt of Cocurity of the State is not interested
“rae in conducting a massiv: repression or nothing like that. ‘wat they want is
that the individual stop conspiring, and if they don't bother them, they
won't bother the individuals.
FRANQUI: In addition to that I believe that there is another way out for them, that
of being captured by the Department of Security of the State.
FALCON: Well, if they continue conspiring.
VIVO: You witnessed the TV appearance of Reinold GONZALG%. ile mentioned the

effectiveness of thc Defense Committees. Can you also say this?

FALCON: Absolutely. They proved my activities 9 months back.

VIVO: You saw Reinold GONZALEZ on television. After that appcarance have you seen
Reinold since you have been under arrest?

FALCON: Yes, I have had opportunities to talk to him.

GOHEZ: You have become convinced that ie came here spontaneously and that he really
declared what he wished to declare?

FALCON: Well, it isn't that I am convinced, I have also come here spontancously to
declare.

FRANQUI: Woll, you also say that a great part of that difficulty has bcon created by
the Defense Committeo2s?

FALCON: Yes.

FRANQUI: Would you like to give me a practical example?

FALCON: Well, I can't really give you a practical cxample. that I can say is that
thoy proved activities of mine nine months ago. They have told mo when I
arrived there from the brand of cigarettcs which I smoked up to the movic

theater where Iwually went. That is, not only about me, but about all the


13-0000

.” MA+134, 18 Jul 62, Carlos BLANCO (cont.)

FuNQurs

FALCON:
GOMEZ:

3

SECRET

members of the direction of the movement.

You Spoke of the direction and you spoke of memburs. What is the situation
of your organization after this last round up?

:Completcly destroycd.

You told us before that there was a certain distrust between the Central

“Intelligence Agency and the members of the group which you dirceted in CUba.

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:
GOMEZ:
FALCON:

VIVO:
FALCON:
VIVO:
FALCON:
VIVO:

FALCON:

FAANQUI:

FALCONS

What can you tell us about this?
Practically almost all the direction, and we received instrugtions to lvave
Cuba in order to conduct an- investigation.

And you did not reccive instructions to use coercive methods to take to the

U.S. some which might not want to go?

Yese a

Who, for oxamplo?

The Finance Coordinator. If he did not wish to go of his ow free will, that
he was not told why he was going. He was told that he was going to take
training, but if he did not wish to go of his own free will he had to be
kidnapped and taken out.

And if he refused to go?

The instructions which thcy had wes to kill hin.

To kill hin although he was a colleague?

Yos.

You have mentioned the demoralization existing in your organization and in
the counterrevolution in general. What opinion do you have regarding tho
possibilities of the counterrevolution in the fight against the Cuban people?
I believe that they are practically null at this moment. I believe that no
one can do anything to overthrow the tevolutionary Government of Cuba at

this time. Therefore, oux struggle has practically no reason of being and
in a certain aspect it is oven immoral because what we are causing is a seric:
of matcrial losses and loss of lives which we have no right to cause.

It's a pity that you don't become convinecd of that until you are in prison.

Vell, I hadn't becone convinecc before. Lite I said, the problen is that I

thought there’ was no oticr way out, and thic is the case of many of those wno

are now conspiring.

You were personally in contact with C.I.A. agents, weren't you’

=10-


13-000

At13%, Ly Jul v2, Carlos 5

‘Yhat is, you.had the oyvortunity to talk to them and study their viewpoints.
Vnat do you think were tuciy obj etives in Cuba? For what objectives were

4 you used?

#ALCON: ‘the basic objective of the North Ancricans at. this time is not to solve the
Cuban prodleom but to produce a State of agitation and alarm here. That is,
to use us for those objectives so that thcy can accomplish a propaganda
campaign throughout Latin America and speak of the horros of the Communist
Governnent of Cuba. Tuat is the objective which they pursue,

GOMEZ: You were. all used as cannon fodder. :

FRANQUI: Why is the counterrevolutionary movement to which you belong named of
Recuperation?

FALCON: Yell, the word indicates to recover or recuperdt: the revolution.

F.iqQuI: “ell, but we recovered fron imperialism everything that it used to take away

from our country. Then you were going to recover from the revolution what w:

took away from imperialism?
FALCON: No, that is an entirely different idea. Well, it is a different conecpt.
GOMEZ: Do you think that the word "recuperation" was not well chosen?
I FALCON: Well, that depends from the viewpoint. Gradually we became convinced that we
were not recovering, that we were recovering for the Auericans.

GOLLIZ: Can you tell us about the treatmont which you have received while you have

been under arrest in the Department of Gecurity of the Statc?

FALCON:  Excollont. I can practically say that I have never felt like a prisoncr.
GOMEZ: Do you think that this is a personal or special treatment for you?

FALOON: Wo, it has been for all the membcrs of our movement, that is, a general
treatment. I believe that it is a metter of principles of the Department

of Security of the State.

VIVO: As you cxplained, you arrived at the direction of that organization which
pretended to recover the impossible past for our country, after Playa Giron.
And how’ did. you think that you were going to win, repeating vlaya Giron or
through the dircet intervention of North Amcrican Liarines?

FALCON: We thought that we could do it internally without their lelp. That was

: practically an absurd thing.

FRANGUI: How are you going to think that if you couldn't do it with their help and
your participation?

FALCON: ‘ney didn't let us know.

GOs: Wore you an isolated ovement or did you have contact with other counter-
revolutionary groups in Cuba or outside Cuba?

FALCON: It was practically an isolated movement.

eget
Peers SRG. T


13-000

~

a te ¢€ j "esr n T €

* .AAS134, 19 Jul 02, Carlos SLANCO (cont.)

JOLY but did- you get together with other groups to purform specific actions
with other groups?

FALCOU: ivell, I already said that tac action of tho 20th was done together with

othcr organizations.

PuaNnQur: One ot your main leaders camc to Playa Giron.

FALCON? . Yes,
PauANQUI: And i
FALCON: No; because communications were in the Hands of th. #aericang.

Jeeretary General of the ilovenent, i Hanusl Aat

janucl ALTTNG didn't let you mow cither’?

VIVO: Yes, it's clear, they weren't advised. Do you have in this organization the
seme position of ARTINE?

FALCON: No. ANTINE was the Secretary General.

VIVO: Vho dircets th: civilian part over thoro?

FALCON: Our delegate abroad is Hr. Jose Ignacio LASAGA.

VIVO: | As you have e:plained herc, the Central Intelligence Agency is the organizer,
the financial sponsor, the one who gives direct and specific orders, and who
gives pistols, silencers, radios, dollars, ctc. to the organizations. Do you

iknow that the Central Intelligence Agcney was the organizer of the Playa Giron

Invasion?
FALCON: Yos.
VIVO: And did you know that a new invasion of Cuba was again being organized from

more than 20 camps established in the Unitcd States, Nicaragua, Guatemala,
Venezuela, and other countries.

FALCON: We didn't know that.

VIVO: You didn't Imow about any other invasion? You did not cxpect a new invasion
of Cuba?

FALCON: No. Not in specific terms, but in gencral lines yes. We wore convinced
that internally we could not overthrow the Government, and that it has to
be externally on the basis of an invasion.

FRANQUI: Do you think that the C.I.A. was going to be satisfied with sending two or
three agents to you to organize thosc radio conversations?

FALCON: For their objectives of creating a state of agitation here, yes.

VIVO: You already described that the C.I.A. was proposing to invade Cuba again.
What do you think would happen in case of an invasion?

FALCON: Well, if the other one was crushed in 72 hours, I think that this one will
have the same fatc.

-12-

skenir


"sonore

|

“nari,
"GOH:

FALCON:

SEOQE

12 gul 62, Carl8. PLAICO (cont:)

c

Do you, Juan FALCON formas, nave anything to add to the replics which you

have given to the newspapermen members of this pancl? Do you have any other
declaration to make?

Yes. I wanted to stress and make an exhortation to the militants of the
movement vho are now on the streets to desist from the idea of continue
conspiring. I say this for two reasons: one, that on the long or short run
they are going to end in the same situation as ourselves, and the other that
our, fight no longer has reason of being because basically what we are doing

is playing the fouc of the North American Government and serving the objective:
for which they use us. In general this is the only thing I wished to say.



Te coate

€ srsrero €

1E Julio 1962

MEM ORAM < aaa Amey iter aneine-xMObs LSS

REF.: Entrevista a Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido en Cuba, su-
* puesto Coordinador tacional delovimiento de Recupe-
racior: Nevolucionaria" en Cuba.-
“INFORMANT: Tomado de "RADIO R=RULDE DE CURA"
17 Julio 62 - 8:00 FM.

Hace la presentacion del detenido, Luis GOMEZ wanguemert
y dal panel de periodista me esta Integrado vor: Carlos FRAN-
QUI, director del periodico REVCLUCION v Rawl VAIDES Vivo,
sub-director del periodico F

'
i
|
:

GOMEZ: Esta Ud. aqui ante los periodistas para contestar

sus preguntss por su propis voluntad, o ha sido
de alguna manera coartado pare venir esta noche?

PALCON: Compile tamente voluntario.

GOMEZ: Quisiera entences hacernos un relato de sus activi-
dades en 6l MRR.

FALCON? El M.ReR. fue fundado a fines de 1959 por Naenuel
ARTIME y una serie de elementos mes, yo en equelle
epoca empece como miembro de fila, trabaéjando en la
parte de propaganda, escribia un pow en el periow
dico del Movimiento, tambien repartia el periodico
y demas, y asi poco mas o menos, de aquella etaps
yo tengo poco que contar, vorque yo era miembro de
fila y no tenie acceso a los planes del Movimiento,
despues de Giron, despues de la Invasion del 17 de
Abril de Playa Giron, la mayor parte de la dirigen-~
cia del Movimiento sé asilaron o se fueron de Cuba,
entonces los que eramos miembros de files y pasanios
a ocupsr los cargos de la directive para trater de
re-organizarlo. Y entonces en ese caso fue que yo
entre en la dirigencia del ilovimiento. ntonces de
la dirigencia dd Moviniento es ove yo puedo hablar
con mas detalles, yo creo que Vds, deben ya pregun-
torme concretamente sobre al-uns cosa.

FRANQUI: Déespues de Flaya Giron Ud. entro a formar parte de
la direccion del M.R.R. v que cargo ocupo en ese
direccion primero.

FALCON: Primero fui Secretario de Crganizacion y despues
pase posteriormente as ocupar la direcion nacional del
Movimiento.

Se eo ries


13-00000

18 Julio 1962

REF.:. Entrevista a Juan FALCON Tamer,detenido

al

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

VALDES:

FALCON?

FALCON:

n_Cuba (Gon t nowna 13S

- FRANQUI:

Que actividades principales cantra-revolucionarias
redizaron Uds. despues de Playa Giron?

Nos dedicamos a hacer una serie de actos de sabota-
je, como fueron la quema de la Petroquimica del Co-
torro, un plan para destruir el transporte nacional
en general, llegamos e destruir 3 guaguas de-la Rue
ta 33, tambien teniamos un plan para la destruccion
sistematica de la economia el cual incluia entre
otras cosas el envenenamiento del ganado.

Que puede decirnos del atentado aCarlos Rafael RO-
DREIGUEZ?

Nosotros nos @énteramos por los periodicos me Car-
los Rafael ibaa dar una conferencia en el Teatro
"Fausto" de Hatenzas, pues supusimos que iba a se-
lir por laVYia Blanca y le montamosun chequeo y a
la salida de Carlos Rafael iba una maquina de no~
sotros delante de el v le hizo sefia aun individuo
que teniamos apostado en la carretera de que venia
atras la maquina de Carlos Rafael vy entmces el in-
dividuo trato de interceptar el carro y le tiraron
con el resultado conocido de que murio el indivi-
duo de nosotros alli.

Ud. ha dicho algo en relacion con las ectividades
contra-revolucionarias. Quien organizaba esas
actividades? Habia alguna vinculacion del M.R.R.
con la Arencia Central de Inteligencia?

En una etapa en un principio nosotros pensamos,
dejeme explicar un poco en detalles, nosotros pen-
sabamos que podiemos llevar solos esta lucha, pero
poco a poco nos fuimos dando cuenta que estabamos
cayendo en manos del Gobierno Norteamericano y que
nos ayudaban, no desinteresadamente sino con el
interes de volver a controlar la republice como es-
taban hesta el 1 finero de 1959.

Y hasta donde llegaba la intromision de la A-encia
Central. de Inteligencia en el Movimiento que Ud.
dirigia?

Bueno, ultimamente llegaba e un grado bastante gran-
de, por ejemplo, para nombrar un dirigente en este
ultimo tiempo, o a un jefe de uns secretaria nacio-
nal del Movimiento, teniarios que consultarlsc ella,
para ver si ellos aprobaban.o desaprobaban al indi-
viduo. Otro ejemplo me le pudiera dar para cue se
>
eas

s¥orsze


RVR

FALCON:

FRANQUT

FALOON;
FRANQUI

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

~

SEor ero a.
C. : : fra 62

Entrevista a duan VALCON Tamar, detenido

en Guba. .... (Cont. )

NOAA 13S

diera cuenta de]. grado de sumision que hemos lle-
gado con relecia a ellcs, fue en el problema de las
comunicaciones, nosotros siempre habianos tenido la
preocupacion de poder cormnicarnoscon el Movimiento
alle afuera, es decir con elM.R.R. ern el exilio, pa-
ra 6so. una vez pensamos ¢n comprar una serie de e-
quipos de radio y de radiotelegrafia vara comunicer=
nos directamente con ellos alla, sin embargo no pu-
dimos hacerlo porque la gente de alls nos dijo que
si'los Americanos llcgaban a enterarse que nosotros
nos estabamos comunicando con ellos directamente sin
contar pare ello con la SIA, nos-~itamos a buscar un
problema muy grande y nos iban a retirar toda la ayn-
da, nosotros para corunicamos alla teniamos una
planta de telegrafia, de radiotelagrafie, me se
comunicaba directamen te a una base de la CIA, enton-
ces por ahi nosotros pasabamos los mensajes que que-
riamos mendarle al Movimiento y de ese mensaje los
Americsnos les decian lo que ellos querian a los
miembros del Hovimimto y se callaban lo que no que
rian decirle y si merisn no vodian pasarnos un mein -
saje de alla para aca, es decir si querian comunicar-
nos algo de alla para nosotros, entonces en vista de
eso fue que nosotros decidimos tratar de comunicar-
nos directamente cin que intermediara la CIA por e 1
medio,sin enbargo no nos fue posible, ellos no lo
dejaron, parece.

Ud. dijo que se habian organizedo porque iban a lu-
char contra la revolucion del meblo.

si

Y entonces se refirio a la intromision de la CIA
del imperielismo; en que fecha fue que ocurrio eso,
despues de Playa Giron, antes.

Bueno de eso no se puede precisar una fecha exacta,
mas bien fue un oreceso pavlatino que cada vez fue
mas y mas y a lo ultimo estabamos practicmentic...
«ee-bueno despues nos convencieron que la R,volu-
cion practicamente era invenc ite.

Ya que atribuye td. le invencibilidac de le R2VOll-
cION.

A un respalco populer muy grande.



13-00000

VALDES:

H  WALS ON:

FRANQUI:
PALCON:

GOMEZ:
PALCON:
GOMEZ:
FALCON:

GOMEZ:
FALCON:
GOMEZ:

FAICON:

FRANG'I:

FALCOK:

VALDES:

1G Fal 62

Tytrevista-a Juan WAnCCY Yamar, detenido

en Cuba. oe. (Cont.) . NO,AA 13%

Ud. habla de la vinculacion con la Avencia Centrel
de Inteligencia, qu recursos les facilitaba a Uds.
la CIA.

Bueno, en primer Inger nos daba dinero, el dinero
con el que nosotros funcionabamos parte lo recauda-
bamos aqui y parte venia de dla en un principio, va
practicamente todo nos venia de slle.

Pajaron las recaudeciones aue tenien aqii?

Si, por ejemplo otra vinculscion es une plants do
teleprafie, la qie yo men ne anteriormente yv que
teniamos pera comunicarnos con ellos alla, facili-
dades'para sacar gente del Yais, es decir gente
clandestina, gente que se quemara a base dé bsrcoos
que venian a recogerlos a ellos y muchas proresas
de armas, de materiales de sabotajes y otra serie
de cosas.

Ud. hablo de barcos, ue clase ds bar cos?
Bueno, unas lanchas que vienen.

V,nian equi a las Gostas de Cube.

sr

Procadentes de donde?

De Miami.

Tripuladas vor qui enes?

Bueno, en algunos casos por miembros del “‘ovimk nto
y en otrospor norteamericaenos.

Ud. hablo de comuniciciones, ave tipo de aparato
le surinistro a Ud. la CIA?

Un apardo de telegrafie de los cue usanéllos para
sus labores de esplonaje en otzos Tsises, es un
aparato de telegrafia no comercial, un aparato pe~
quefio que puede funcionar en cualquier lado practi-
camente corm ¢1 cual nosotros nos cormnicabanos alla
a base de sistema de telegrafie en clave directa~
mente a una base de la CTA.

a ¢l Cdte, Paul CAS-
e Naval de Guentanamo,

Y del atentado organizado con
qRO, con participacion de la

“Wye


13-00000

FRANQUI:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

GOMEZ:
FALCON:

VIVO:
FALCO™:
VIVO:
FALCON:
FRANQUIS:

18 4 2 62

“ROF.: lintre vista a Juan “ALSON Tamar, detenido é
Gri_Gubas oe. (cont. } NOAA (3S

Bueno eso fue el 2 de Julio del atio nasado, ese no
fue un-plan especi “icamente nuestro, ese fue un plan
inventado por la CIA con la participacion de varias
organizaciones, no era la nuestra leunies, el plan
contemplaba varias partes, es decir contemplaba un
atentado a FIDSL v al Tonsejo de Ministros que se
iba a reunir en le Plazes “ivica el din 26 de Julio
del gio pasado, por otra prte tenia un atentado a
Raul CASTRO en Santiaszo de Suhs y otra serie de ace
tos de sabotaje mas correlativos con eso, com era
tratar de inutilizar la Cia. de Electricidad, una
auto-agresion a la Rase de Guantanamo v varias co-
sas mas de menos émvergadura. eS

Y ‘Los ‘planes de quemar el petroquimico del Sotorro
no participaron,

Si, esa fue nuestra organizacion la que lo hizo.

Podria “Yd. explicarme un poco el sabotaje a la Pa-
troquimica del Cotorro.

Pueno, ahi se utilizaron matcriales fabricados por
nosotros, practicarts ahi no se usaron materiales
que hubieran venido de afuera, es decir de 55,7.,
quimicamente se preparo unas cansulas que quemeron
anseguida.

Que otros planes de sabotajes tenien.

Hl destruir unas plantas aqui de le COA, tenemos
el plan de ladestruccion sistematica dea la econo-
mia, que contemplaba entre otras cosas como ya le
dije anteriormente el envenenamiento del sanado cm
cianuro de potasb.

¥Y la quema de guaguas como la real izaban?

A base de patacas incendiarinas.

Simulando cajetillas de cigarros?

Si, poco mas o menos.

Ud. ha mencionado una serie de actos cotra-revolu-
cionarios realizads por Ustedes, "d. he menciona-=
do que tuvieron un cisrto exito en el del Cotorro,

ds. fracasaron en el atentado ea “arlos Rafael vy no
pudieron realizar los atentados a pr incipsles

figuras de la Revolucion. Cuslcs fucron les causas
que impidisron que ds. lo realizaran?
: c



13-00000

FALGO :
FRANQI I

ALCON:
PRANQUI

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

FRANQUI

FALCON:

FRANQT

FALCON:

FRANQUI

FALCON:

Sptrevista a Juan F

SEOR# TO
18 3u2 62

“ON famr, detenido

en Guba.... (Cont. ) YO.AA 13S

No tuvimos tiempo, cl Departamento de turidad
del fstado nos prendio a todos practicamm te.

Pero e sos atentados ocurrieron en tiempos dife-
rents

No. eso’ los estabamos nlaneando ahora.

Pero por ejemplo ess atentado de participacion or-
ganizado porla GIA y en aue perticiparon varias or-
ganizaclones contra-revolucionarias como fue el del
26 de Tulio, Que fue lo que impidio la realizacion?

ea misma razon de ae el “epartamento dé
del Estado varios dies ates qa se hiciera prendio
a todos los individuos claves en eso.

Zs decir, que en varioscasos en varios planes de
sabotaje que Uds. tenian el Depar tamento de %,guri-
dad del Estado se les anticipo y erresto a los que
estebdan camplicados para realizarlos.

En muchos de ellos.

Uds. confrontaban muchas dificultades en cuanto a la
realizacion de estos plenes, como sa sentian, no les
era dificil realizar estos actos?

Bueno, hay que estudiar un plan y tratar de llevar-
lo a cabo, es decir montar un cheouso al individuo
y ver el lugar mas apropiado para llevarlo a cabo y
ver si es posible o no.

Si eso ¢s natural en cualquier tipo de acto de esa
naturaleza, pero yo me referia en vista Ge aue el
porcentaje de actos que han realizado es muy peque 4o
sin embargo intentaron hacer muchos * cuenta Ud. que
una ‘de las causas es que el Departamento de S.guri-
dad del Estado intervino a tiempo, pero, hay alguna
otra causa que le impedia a Uds. las actividades
contra-revolucionarias?

Bueno en general unas series de dificult ades como
por ejemplo el desaliento entre las filas del mvi-
miento.

Originado, porque?

Criginedo por la sumision esa a la Arencia Sentral
de inte ligencia Norteamericana, nosotros indiscubi-
blemente ibamos a la lucha no con le idea de estar
sumidos a una potencia extranjera en aun ¢l dia de


13-00000

REF. S

FALCON:

FRANQUI

FALCON:

FRANGUI

FALCON:

“Dy
_SECRETO .
€ 18 £. 62
Entrevista « Juan FALCON Tamar, datmido 3
en Suba.....(Conte) ae rowan ZS

Maiaa tuvisrams que de nuevo entregarles la Pa=
tria a ellos, entonces esa ayuda me ellos nos pro-
metian y nos daban peulatinamente, nos la fueron
condicionando, es decir, nosotros ingenuamente se
puede decir pensamos que nos la iban a brindar de-
sinteresadamente,es decir, sin pedirnos nada en cam~
bio pero despues nos dimos cuenta queno era asi, de
que ellos esa ayuda nos la brindaban a cambio de al-
go, a cambio de que nosotros el dia de maiiane las
entregaramos le Soberania y la Patria a ellos, ene
tonces por ese motivo es que cundio una especie de
desaliento entre las filas delMoviniento, hasta que
llego coro a fines del aio pasada-en que pensamos

en disolver ¢1 Moviniento completamente.

Pero el fracaso de Playa Giron, no ‘ue tambien un
factor determinante.

Si,-flaya Giron fue una de las causas determinantes,
es decir, que en Playa Viron se vio tambien el desti-
no del Imperiaslismo Norteamericano.

Aunque tambien s¢ vio la popular que es lnchar con-
tra la Revolucion.

Si, exactamen te, fue uma Invasion que fue destruida
en menos de 12 horas.

Y cuando llegaron Uds. a la ecmclusion de aue le as-
taban sirviendo de instrumento a los ®stados tnids
y al Imperialismo Norteamericano?

Bueno, hace bastante tiempo ya, el problema da esto
es que uno se da cuenta de eso pero ya le parece

gue es tande para vinar para atras, yo quisiera he-
cer un poco de hincapie en eso, basicarente esa es
una de las razones por las oue yo he pedido venir
aqui, la mayor parte de los conspiradores que hay
hoy en dia en la calle, los miembros de fila de nues-
tro Noviniento, que aun cuedan en la ecdlle tienen
una idea distinta de la lucha, es decir, que piansan
que no somos como en realidad somos, una Sucursal

de la Agencia Central de +nteligencia “orteimericana,
entonces ellos piensane so y continuan en la Wweoha,
sin embargo nosotros los qe estanos en la diviga-
cia, yo lo digo por el caso mio concreto, cuando yo
era miembro de fila del Movimiento, que me dedicaba
a repartir vropaganda, que me nasabatodo el dia re-
partiendo propaganda desde por 13 mafiena hasta por
le noche y cuando terminaba me creia gus habia hecho
por Cuba un horror, crein que habia trabajado enore
mementa por Cubaw qehahis hecho lo maioy ae nodia
hacer ¥oque estaba trahajendo rear rae «



ioe 62

Roe. entrevista a Jusn FALCOY Tamar, delenido

en _(Cuba..

Tu(conbs) beac ipeaci rota L3Y

FALCON:

VIVO:"

FALCON:

FALCON:

FRANQII:

FALCON:

cusndo Lk gue s Cirigmte del Movimiento me di
cuenta de quteso no era asi y ahora lo corprendo
de gue estabamos entregados completamm te al Im=
perialismo Norteamericano + que no ibaros a poder
lograr ningina de lasideas, ninguno de los fines
para los cuales luchabamos.

Desde luego, de ms esta decir que los compaferos
que estarps aqui, creemos tanto en la ingenuidad

de los miembros de esa Organizacion cm tra-revoli=
cionaris, como en el desinteres de la Agencies Cen-
tral de Intecligencia, nosotros queremos puntuali-
zar. para no entrar en una volemiva innecesaria, Ud.
ha hablado de asesinatos, de los sabotajes contra
la economia ponular, Que participacion han tenido
Uds. en la ayude a las bandas de alzados que hicie-
ron del Yscanbray un cucnillo....del pais?

Fueno, la misma participacion practicmente qe han
tenido las demas organizaciones,.es decir, si se
podia brindar une ayuda basicemente de tivo moneta-
rio porme de otra cosa no teniamos, pues se la
brindabanos, si tcniamos la posibilided.

Pero tld. mencicno ahi qe las recaudaciones cue
Uis. tanian praveniente de los grupos con tra-revo-~
lucionarics interncs disminuie mucho, porque tuvie-~
ron que recurrir cada vez mas a le ayuda qe Uds.
recibian de les Estados Unidos, En que forma reci-
bien Uds. ese ayuda?

La ayuda se recibie a hase de cambios, es decir ope-
raciones de cambic, ellos situsban "X" dolares ella,
aun individuo alle particular y nosotros aqui 2
otro individuo le recogianos el earivalmte.

bEllos! uienes?

Loe ‘norteanericanos.

VIVO: El cambio ce la moneda, como afecto esas operaciones?

FALCON:

FRA NQOUI

Bueno, en aquel momento a nosotros no nos afecto en
gran cosa, nosotros cambisros practicamente todo el
dinero que tenia cl Moviniento, pusimos ea todos los
militantes del Moviviento a cambiar dinero.

En la Habana, la recaudacion dc ‘tds. tuvo que ver
algo con el hecho de que los elementorc ce la clese
burguesa y rice, tomaron el casino de tos EE.U.?



13-00000

ROF.3 Entreviste a Juan
en Cuba, .. (Cont. )

~ FALCON:

PRANQUI:
FALCON:
FRANQU‘Is

FALCON:

VIVO:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:
FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:
GOMEZ:

FALCON:
FRANQUI:

¢ ieeeies ee) centeaian

16 Tul 62

av, detenido
‘ roa 3S

Yo creo que en gran parte.
us decir, Uds, reciblan dinero de gente rica,
sI.

Yal irse esa gente, pues tenian menos recaudacio~
N@Se---

Practicamente, Si.

No quiere decir algo sobre la guerra psicologica,
sobre el problema de las bolas.

Si, yo voy a decir algo sobre ls propeganda de}
asunto aquel de le Patria Potestad, eo general ese
@s un asmto en el cual nosotros. tomabamos gran per-
te, porque sinseramente aquella vez de la Patria
Potestad, tiranos unapropsganda tratando de deses-
perarlos, con esa bola que se hatia tirado.

Md, conoce este instruma to?

Si, este es un cuiio para les carteras dactilares
falsas.

Es decir, para la falsiticacion de este tipo de
cartera dactiler, y este tipo de carteres dactile~-
res que ‘lds, usaban donde se hizo aqui o en los
EE. U.?

En los EEUU.

Se lo mandaba a Uds. la Agencia Central de Inteligen-
cia.

Si.

Ud. ha referido una serie de actividades que tiene
que ver con explosivos, ayuda, comunicaciores, ha-
blo tambien de los planes que tenian que ser discu~
tidos por la CIA, entrenaniento de dirigentes, ten-
bien Ud. hablo de envenenamiento de animales. Uds.
podin explicarnos?



13-00000

SECRETO
18 Jul 62

REF.: Entrevista a Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido a
en Cuba... (Cont) wo.aa_/¢

FALCON:

FALCON:

FALCON:

Ud. sabe que hay escacez de carne que ese es un problema
que confronta la revolucion hoy en dia entonces trataba—
mos de cooperar a eso; es decir como les decia anterior~
mente es una especie de plan de destruir sistematicamente
Ja economia.s

Yo queria venir aqui precisamente porque a Reinold nadie

le hizo caso entonces todo el mundo penso que Reinold hasta
clerto punte no habla sido sincero es decir que habia venido
aqui. coaccionado por el Departamento de Seguridad del Estado
a tener aquella comparecencia.

Me permite una pregunta Ud. tiene una opinion distintea ahora?
Completamente distinta.
Por que?

Por el trate que he recibido en el Departamento de Seguridad
del Estado y por los metodos que he visto que emplean.-
Reinold hablo de que a é1 hacia 6 meses que lo estaban che-
queando, eso nadie lo creyo y nadie le creyo que un coordi-
nador nacional del movimiento lo tuvieran 6 meses en la calle
chequeandolo, yo puedo afirmar que a mi me han tenido 9 meses,
a mi me han probado en el Departamento de Seguridad del Estado
la vida mia 9 meses atras me han dicho casas com por ejemplo
la marca de cigarros que yo fumaba hasta al cine que habituaba
ir.

Yo quiero decirle una cosa porque a lo mejor ahora algun otro
contra-revolucionario que como Ud. dice o supone engafiado vaya
@ estar pensarido de Ud, lo mismo que Ud. penso de Reinold, en-
tonces la prueba vamos a dejarla para la proxima ocasion cuando
venga aqui tambien porque poco a poco todo el mundo ha visto
como todas las organizaciones contra-revolucionarias van siendo
liquidados por la revolucion, es decir que en definitiva lo que
importa no es la apreciacion si Ud. dice o no dijo, lo que im
porta son las presentaciones,

Es decir yo estimo Sr. Franqui-que al ver estos dos casos la
gente nos haga ms caso.

No pero no son dos casos, son muchos casos, trataron de levan-
tarse en el Escambray y fueron liquidados, vinieron a Playa Gi-
ron y fueron liquidados, intentaron hacer sabotajes en el Encan-
to etc. y fueron liquidados, vino Reinold y fue liquidado, han
intentado infiltrarse por diferentes lugares del pais y han si-

suM@hera


13-00000

eal €

18 Jul 62
REF.: Entrevista a Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido BNA
en Cubse++e(Cont. No.aa_/e
FRANQUI: do liquidados, asi es que no son dos casos, son muchos
casos.
FALCON: Pero mire el problema que tiene hoy en dia el individuo
que esta en la calle conspirando es que cree que ya no
puede volver para atras es decir que no le queda mas que
dos salidas abandonar el pais o tratar de seguir luchando
hasta ver si triunfa.
GOMEZ: Ud. cree que tienen otra salida ademas de esas dos.
FALCON: Yo estoy seguro que si, el Departamento de Seguridad del
Estado no esta interesado en hacer una represion en masa
ni macho amenos, lo que le interesa es que el individuo
deje de conspirar, si no se meten con ellos, ellos no se
meten con el tampoco.
FRANQUL: A parte de eso yo creo que tambien tienen una entrada que
es en el Departamento de Seguridad del Estado.
FALCON: Bueno, si siguen conspirando
VIVO: Ud. presencio la comparecencia de Reinold Gonzalez, el hablo
de la eficacia de los Comites de Defensa, Ud. tambien puede
decirlo?
FALCON: CompLetamente, ellos me probaron las actividades mias de ha-
ce 9 meses. 7
VIVO: Vio Ud. a Reinold Gonzalez por television, despues de esa com
parecencia ha visto Uda Reinold, ahora que esta detenido.
FALCON: Si, he tenido oportunidades de hablar con el.
GOMEZ: Se ha convencido Ud. de que el vino aqui expontaneamente y que
declaro verdaderamente lo que el quito declarar.
! FALCON: Bueno no es que yo este convencido es que yo tambien he venido
expontaneamente a declarar.
FRANQUI: Bien, Ud. habla tambien de que gran parte de esa dificultad
ha sido creada por los Comites de Defensa.
.
FALCON: Si
FRANQUI: Ud. quisiera ponerme algun ejemplo practico

-ll-
SECRETO
4

\


18 Jul62

13-0000 _ an :
) aa i (ae SECRETO Cc

REF.: Entrevista a Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido BY
en Cubas.s+(Cont. no.aa_/

FALCON? Bueno ejemplo practico realmente no se yo lo que puedo
. : decirle es que a mi me probaron actividades mias ahi de
hace 9 meses, me han dicho cuando yo llegue ahi desde la
marca de cigarros que yo fumaba hasta al cine que habi-
tualmente iba, es decir no conmigo solo sino con, todos
los miembros de la direccion del movimkento.
: ’ FRANQUI: . Ud, hablo de la direecion y hablo de miembros, Fn que es~
| tado ha quedado ahora en esta ultima redada su organiza
cion?

FALCON: Completamente destruida
GOMEZ s Ud. nos dijo antes que habia una cierta desconfianza de la
Agencia Central de Int. encia y los miembros del grupo
5 que Ud. dirigia en Cuba, Que puede decirnos?

ciones de salir del territorio a fin de hacer una investi~
Zacions

GOMEZ : Y no recibieron Uds. instrucciones de utilizar metodos coac~
tivos para llevar a los Estados Unidos a algunos que no qui~

| FALCON: Practicamente casi toda la direccion y recibimos instruc-
aieran ir

FALCON: Si
| GOMEZ : Por ejemplo, contra quienes

FALCON: Contra el Coordinador de Finanzas, si el individuo no que-
ria ir por su voluntad, ed decir no se le decia a lo que
iba, se le decia que iba a tomar un entrenamiento, pero si
no queria por su voluntad habia que sacarlo secuestrado.

VIVO: Y si se negaba a ir

FALCON: Las instrucciones que tenian ellos era de que lo mataran.
VIVO: De que lo mataran aunque fuera un compaiiero?

FALCON: Si

,

VIVO: Ud. ha hablado aqui de la desmralizacion que existe en su
organizacion y en general en la contra-revolucion, Que opi-
nion tiene Ud. de las posibilidades de la contra-revolucion
en la lucha contra el pueblo de Cuba?

PALCON: Yo creo que son practicamente nula en este momento, yo creo
que nadie pueda hacer nada que pueda derrocar el gobierno
Revolucionario de Cuba en este moemtno; practicamente nues~

a9


13-00009

( ee aie eet €

18 Jul 62

REF.: Entrevista a Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido 3Y
no.aa_/e

en Cuba. ..-(Cont.

FALCON:

FALCON:

GOMEZ >

FALCON:

FALCON:

FALCON:

FALCON:

FALCON:

tra lucha pues no tiene razon de ser y en cierto aspecto
es hasta inmoral pues lo que estamos es causando una
serie de perdidas materiales y perdidas de vida tambien
a la cual no tenemos derecho

Es una lastima que Uds. no se convenzan de eso hasta que
no estan preso

Bueno yo no me habia convencido antes, el problema es como

yo le decia antes era que yo creia que no habia otra salida
y ese es el caso de muchos de los que estan conspirando hoy
en dia.

Ud. estuvo personalmente en contacto con los agentes de la
CIA, verdad?

Si

Es decir tuvo Ud. oportunidad de conversar con ellos y de
estudiar cuales eran sus puntos de vistas Cuales cree Ud.
que eran sus objetivos en Cuba, con que fines los utilizaba
a Uds?

El objetivo basico de los Norteamericanos en este momento no
es resolver el problema de Cuba, sino el producir aqui un es=
tado de agitacion y de alarma, es decir utilizarnos a noso-
tros con esos fines para ellos poder llevar a cabo una propa~
ganda por toda la America Latina y hablar de los horrores del
gobierno comunista de Cuba, es decir ese es el objetivo que
ellos persiguen.

Io utilizaban a todos como carne de cation

Por que el movimiento contra-revolucionario a que Ud. perte-
nece se llama de Recuperacion

Bueno la palabra indica de recuperar la revolucion

Bueno pero nosotros le recuperamos al imperialismo todo lo
que el imperialismo le quitaba a nuestra patria, entonces Uds.
le iban a recuperar a la revolucion lo que nosotros le quita—
mos al imperialismo

No, es otra idea completamente distinta.e Bueno es una con
eepcion distinta.

Cree Ud. que la palabra recuperacion no fue una palabra bien
escogida.

Bueno eso depende del punto que se vea, paulatinamente lleramos
al convencimiento de que no estabamos recuperando, que lo esta-
17


13-00000

SECRETO € ay
i 18 Jul 62

en _Cuba....(Cont.

REF.: “ntrevista de Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido 3
oA le

FALCON:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

FALCON:

FALCON:

FALCON:
GOMEZ

FALCON:

FALCON:

- FRANQUI:

FALOON:

FALCON:

bamos recuperando por los norteamericanos

Que puede decirnos Ud. del trato que ha recibido mientras ha
estado Ud. arrestado en el “pto. de Seguridad del Estado

Excelente, practicamente puedo decir que nunca me he sentido
como un prisionero

Cree Ud. que ese es un trato personal para Ud., especial para
Ud.

No, ha sido con todos los miembros de nuestro movimiento, es
decir un trato general, yo creo que es una cuestion de princi-
pios del Dpto. de Seguridad del Estado

Segun Ud. explico llego a la direccion de esa organizacion que
pretendia recuperar el pasado imposible para nuestro pais des~
pues de Playa Giron y como pensaban Uds. que iban a triunfar,
repitiendo Playa Giron o mediante la intervencion directa de
los Marines norteamericanos.

Pensabamos que podiamos internamente sin ayuda de ellos, eso
fue una cosa absurda practicamente.

Como Uds.e van a pensar eso, si con la ayuda de ellos y la de
Uds. junto no pudieron,

No nos avisaron

Uds. eran un movimiento aislado o tenian Uds. contacto con
otros grupos contrarrevolucionarios en Cuba o fuera de Cuba

Practicamente era un movimiento aislado

Pero Uds. se reunian con otros grupos para realizar determina—
dos actos con otros grujios.

Bueno ya le dije que el actodel 26 se hizo en union de otras
organizaciones

A Playa Giron vino uno de los jefes principales de Uds.
Si, el Sec. Gral. del Mov. el Sr. Manuel Artime.
Yel Sr. Manuel Artime tampoco les aviso.

No porque las comunicaciones estaban en manos de los americanos.



fe Seas
SECRETO +
| ¢

18 Jul 62

REF.: Entrevista de Juan FALCON Tamar, detenido * of
en Cuba. ... (Conte) vo.aa_/ 3

FALCON :
VIVO:
FALCON:

FALCON:

_ VIVO:

FALCON:

FALCON:

FALCON:

GOMEZ:

Si esta claro, no le avisaron a ellos. Ud. tiene en esa
organizacion el mismo cargo que Artime

Noy. Artime era Secretario General
Quien dirige la parte civil alla?

El delegado muestro en elatranjero el Sr. Jose Ignacio
lazaga.

le Agencia Central de Inteligencia segun Ud. ha explicado
aqui es la organizadora, financiadora y la que da ordenes
directas y concretas y da pistolas, silenciador, radios,
dollares etc. a las organizaciones, Ud. sabe que la Agen-
cia Central de Inteligencia fue la organizadora.de la inva~
sion a Playa Giron?

Si

Y sabian Uds, que estaba organizando de nuevo desde veinte

y pico campamentos establecidos en los Estados Unidos, Nica-
rague, Guatemala, Venezuela y otros paises una mieva invasion
a Cuba?

%
De eso no teniamos conocimientos.

No tenian Uds. conocimientos de ninguna otra invasion no es—
peraban Uds. de nuevo una invasion a Cubase

No, en terminos concretos no, en lineas generales si, nosotros
estabamos convencidos de que internemente no podiamos derrocar
al gobierno y tiene que ser externamente a base de una inva~
sion.

Ud. cree que la CIA se iba a conformar con mandarle dos o tres
agentes a Uds. para organizar las conversaciones por radio esas

Para los fines de ellos de crear aqui un estado de agitacion
si.

Ya Ud. describio que la CIA se proponia invadir de nuevo a Cuba,
en caso de una invadion que Ud. cree que ocurriria

Bueno, si la otra fue destruida en 72 horas yo creo que esta
corre la misma suerte,

Tiene Ud. Juan FALCON Tomar alguna cosa que agregar a las res~
puestas que ha dado a los periodistas miembros del panel, tie-
ne alguna. otra declaracion que hacer.

H lS

jamal


18 Jul 62°

REF.:. Entrevista de FALOON Tamar, detenido
en Gates (Gontet NO. 13¢

FALCON:

Si lo que queria hacer incapies en hacerle una exhortacion
a los militantes del movimiento que hoy esten en la calle
para que desistan de la idea de seguir conspirando y yo lo
digo’ por dos razones, una es que a la larga o a la corta
van a terminar en la misma situacion que nosotros y la otra
es que nuestralucha ya no tiene razon de ser porque basica-
mente lo que estamos es haciendole el juego al gobierno nor-
teamericano y sirviendo para los fines para los cuales ellos
nos usan, eso es en general lo unico.que queria decir.

