# 104-10006-10270

## Page 1

1104-10006-10270

SECRET

FROM:

(Requesters name) O

•AIW. BRASKO

BADGE NO.

BRANCH

ROOM

EXTENSION

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO.

TO

TUBE

ROOM

RID/INDEX

DT - 5

DATE

3/3/64

NITIALS

CHECKING

INSTRUCTIONS

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT - 6

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS,

GT • 7

R1D/201

RID/MIS

GT - 6

RID/INDEX

SURNAME

D

UMAMANTOV

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHESTO

Ily 2

ARA. ALIASES

EETN

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

A.

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

OTHER IDENTLEY IN ATA Occupation, sex, CP membership,

Natalized U.5.

1955

Leed su

USSR

scologest, fun Oil Ca.

:ITIZENSHI&

U, 5

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

'allas, Texas

COMMENTS

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSIRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green

diagonal line across the

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

luctions, also return pertinent documents

per tune etes at the doser le a 201 or

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

• For each document to be included in th

onsolidation (i.e

cards

to indicate:

•, copy or cross reference

to be placed in the 201 file), green D th

(a)

cards to be destroyed (mark with

corresponding card and check (a) or (b)

green D and note reason for destruction)

below;

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or

less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(a) - 20180)1date into

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding Infinity symbol oo when

card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

(b) [ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION CIt any)

OTHER INFERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

ASSTENZE™

TYES

I NO

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD,

and those that

meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the Cs Main Index.

If yqu

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

RID

DESK

Note 2. Information concerning foreigr

public personalities (except mili-

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

MAIANTOFF, Enu

44-5-3-1

83

1012.

what:

2422002308

2ae: 105

MAMANTOV,. fnu

IN 40570

Brin 163

Germany - 20 Apr 48

Extracted from MSBA-1617. Il Apr. Absinthe

invited to Soviet Press Club Party by Green-

berg (CF BSC-778 MGB3982) attended also by

Budakin of Tass and Mamantov and Kushevnikova

01

SNB. .

Explanation current travel restrictions.

IXERO

COP,

---

