# 104-10534-10120

## Page 1

104-10534-10120

TOP SE

SECRET:

EYES ONLY

Declassified and Approved for Release

by the centra telligence Agency

Date: 2 dua

25 October 1966

NEMORANDUM FOR Director, of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT:

Yuriy. I. NOSENKO

1.The attached memorandum describes the techniques

used and

the results obtainec.in the flrstsphaserof the

present interrogation of NOSENKO The most significant

item to emerge from this questioning and related polygraph

nover heard of OSWALD until after President Kennedy's

assassination in November, 1963, that he was not an active

participant in the case as claimed and that his whole

at The 1P OSWALD was prepared by the KB and given to us

vat their direction.

2. Other areas of strong reaction refer to Subject's

suspected contact.with tho KGB.wh le.in Geneva in 1962 and

1904 and to percian and the ushkin street, drop lkey factor

in the son compromise subjece bogame very upset

at questioning on this subject

and refused, to discuss.his

own alleged involvement in the case.

we also touched upon

NOSENKO's parental background,

perlods of imprisonment and

homosekuallty.

His reactions here all ponted to clear-

cut contradictions in the story he has told us.

There still remain soveral areas of interest and

importance to be covered with, the techniques used to date.

¿ve expect to complete this ine, of quest loging by 28 October.

analyses of key.

The fact that nostke knows he streact nio sensitive.

areas and thas s worryng him because bes not sure har

muco we know or how we namedi

NOSENKO recottons

nave given us hope that we may this procedute have begun

to Strike home.

Ma that keeps this

man sitting month after wonth mis present i cuation..

we Speculate that one factor may lot confidence, that the

Relatod torre ay be the thought

that the comes so coopy penetrated that it would be

unhealthy for him to conteso..

our current ine of interro

gation, expanded and used even nure forcefully, might

EYES ONLY.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

-TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

2

break down some ot his obstacles to confession by showing

us in a alfretent and stronger posture Therefore we now

plan to go beyone the inited aims or ginat sot or the

phase of the intorrogation We plan to continue the inter-

rogation in the hope of getting a confession, written plans

will be submitted when they are more definitely formulated.

David E. Murphy

Chief, Soviet Biod Division

Attachment:

chiot. CL

Director o

TOP SECRET

EVES OM

---

## Page 3

13-00000

- TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

24 October 1966

1. Thie 10 an interim report on progress to date in

the new phane in the interrogation of Mostko, which began

on 18 October 1966, and dovers the firat four days, 18-21

October.

After a break, it will resume on 25 Oatober.

Our alma in this phase of the interrogation have

been Miniteda

In view of the poastbility of losing necess

to MOBINKO, we have sought (a) to strengthen our baste report,

now in preparation, by testing his story further clar fying

points of confusion and revearing new contrac etions, and

by polygraph exeminations of key ares, and (b) to lead,

toward hts.

eventual confession by direatly exploiting our

hypotheses about the true background of Mostko and thie

KGB operation, to convey to lOSEsKO the impresston that we

know more than before, that we possess irrefutable proof

of his guilt and that he has no prompects for release.

refrained from doing thle in earlier phases of the interro-

gation, but, et thie point there seems little to lose.

3.

The firat four days have shown that the method 1s

useful.

NOsINKO again proved a good reactor on polygraph,

he seemed disturbed by our knowledge and the pecial areas

of interest we revealed, and we were able to develop in

portent new information, contradictions and indications

concerning the background of thia operation.

Methad

ho has told to date.

we cave him no explanation for our

renewal of the Interrogation, nor has he dared for any. our

questions heve been pointed and detalled ma nilther require

nor permit long-winded enveras they do not seex. new Infor-

mation but are clearly dealgned so check Intormet tom be pro-

vided easiter, our questions are slanted to build up the

impression that they are based on date we heve-learned in-

red erty cente elent ate Inter bose pedater

rogation easions are talloved by polyscaph i

minations on

the matters covered in the Interrogation and/or Other topias.

somewhat more time la spent on direct polygraph examination

then on Interrogation,

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

13-00000

EYES ONLY

Highlichts to Date

5.

OSWALD Cases

The opening session was a polygraph

examination conducted by Nicholas Stolaken, whom NOSENKO

recognized as his earlfer polygraph operator. The question-

ing was devoted entirely to Lee Harvey OSWALD and NOSEKO'&

role In the OSWALD case. We hit this point before any other

In order (a), to permit clean polygraph testing on this key

matter without having disturbed him with other questiong.

and (b), to get over to NOSENKO the gravity of our concern

on this matter of highest state interest.

The operator's

conclusions weres

a.

subject was not personally or actually in

volved in the OSWALD case from 1959 while OSWALD was

In the Soviet Union.

bo

Subject received special instructions (from

the KGB) about the OSKALD case and what to tell Am

erican authorities about it.

Subject's alleged association with the OSWALD

case both "before and after" the Kennedy assasaination

was partly for the purpose of supporting and sub

stantiating subject's cover story "legend".

de

Subject heard of OSWALD (as a case) only after

Kennedy's assassination, however he was not an active

participant in 1963 as he Indicates, but was probably

briefed on the case by a KGB officer.

::

6•

Geneva Meetinger We devoted several hours of inter-

rogation and polygraph testing to the Geneva periods, June

1962 and January February 1964, We hit this point second in

order because there are clear signs of important deception

behind it and it offers us special opportunities to suggeat

Inside Information which in faot derive from observation and

deduction.

Among the high points were the followings

NosInKo"s story of his "investi-

said was suspected in 1962 to be an American agent, was

covered again in detail. The new data we obtained tend

to confirm that this 1s a serious part of NOSENKO's

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 5

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

WE SHADEN

We slepted our

questton to suggest Knowledgertnee SHAKHOV Is a koe

contecte. NOstko val inconsletent in hty atory.

and reacted significantly under polygraph exonine-

tion. le are currently treciog new pemes and data:

and are re

emining the eignificanto of thia matter,

2 NOSHKO reacted very

strong yen Contre entay to the duestion be chatter

or not he had been ment to Geneva by the KOB to con-

tact CIA, whether he vas recelving kob atrect on

there, and on related questions, including some res

lated to hie ostenathlo Investigatton of Pavel staKloY.

U,3. Personnel and Inatellatione in Geneva!

Nobo was Interrogated on hia earles story, that)

ho had seen in deneve in 1964 the file on kos activity

ageinst Anaricen instellationa In Geneva (KGB Cryptonym

*SKORPION-

Hia version this time conflicted, with

hia 1964 veraton but contelned the some messego.

that

the woak and underetetsed kos in Geneva hed LIttle

Interest. Limited fealittles and no buscens. In opera-

tions agetnat the Amerteens and had prectically no.

idea of the identities of OrA personnel there. In

addition, NOSENkO reacted to polygraph questions

related to wether the kOB had told him the name of

hla OXA case Officers On the other bende he dia not

react to the nemes of the then cos switrerland and

Coco aya vent surfed i hate of dant, cola them

with certain detailo cort or reported, including kra-

LO

Vis role in the ARCHITCHAT case. He seemed distur

by the questioning on KIBLOv end finelly sata he da

no reason to ansver any more off then Honever, his

polysteph reactions ala not ouggent, that no was an

sens tve

to sloy as to other Individuala and matt

covered In the same sertes of questions. Veraleo ne

with the polysteph.

whether herves withholaing anyth

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 6

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

concerning his @ leged agent oleg ChEe

offlalal of the Soviet delegation his reactions

suggested that he mey genuinely be Ignorant of

ORINEVSKIY's KGB activittes handler of a Brittsh

(double agent in Genev jet the time,. He had ceriter

sald that kla deily accens to the KOB Restdency to

Geneva in 1964 was due to his frequent contacts with

MIkhall S. TSYMBAl, this time he said that he only

saw TSYNBAL twico In Geneva In 1964 and falled to

mention a Sunday meeting with TSXMBAt which ho had

reported to us at the time it occurred. This leaves

open the whole question of how NOSENKo can explain

learned from our prevtous interrogations - la not

normally peritted. this will be covered in further

questioning.

7. Mattere Related to the PENK

oversy Comprontse:

John AbIDialia Ylait. to,the Pushkin Street

Deaddror: NOSINKO reacted with special sensitivity

and intenalty when anted in polygraph test whether

he had been instructed to tell CIA about ARIDIAN'S

Visit to the Pushkin Street deaddrop. In addition,

he refused for the first time to aisouss his own

partlotpation in the tneident, adamantly claiming

that he does not remember when or even whether he

viaited the drop or whethes he read seports on

surveillence coverage of It after ABIDIA's viait.

(He had earlter sald he vialted the drop at least

twica, mediately after AbDiA's visiti he des.

artbed the Location end named the kes officora he

went with.) In sharp contraet to hia reluctance

to discuas his parsonal sole ves his unhesttating

and confident sesponse to other aspecta of the:

Pushkin Street drop to so 2he resterates thet

ARIDIAN was undez fume, double-trength eur

veillance throughout his tour in Moscow and that

ABIDIN was purveltled to the drop. He now nads,

for the first time, that the kos concluded that the

drop had been inttially round by a U.8. touriat or

delegetion member, and that ABDIAN was merely check-

ing out its sustability for sone eventual use: - (In

fact, PENKOVSIIY proposed the drop and ABIDIAN went

there only in response to

the agreed telephonie

signal triggered by persons unknown, not by PENKOV

(кіX.)

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 7

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

CHE 115

•MOS EROKO

vas again querted, on

orbigged resteurant meeting. with

an IndonesSen offloer,

11902 and dig o 191966 tO goula not clatte

why the had

Meet the nara

Since we now know

ested as 1

KTY allusion in a bugged conversation, in 1961

to seppa ve belleve that NOSTKO:8 1962 verslo

van & koB fishing expedition. Hovever, Nosmake

dia not react to a polygreph question concernlag

the name Zapp, and he may not himselfeknow thet

he vas siven a wrong name for the Indonesten ofElcer

nor, why.

AdmIraL VORONESOV, It had been apeculated

that when NOBINKO mentloned In June 1962 meetings

the name of, his big triend" in the neval oRU.

Admiral VORON?SOy, he may have been flahing for

comments Cron us concerning Marthal YARENISOY.

PENKOVSKIX Protectos.Querted thte time about

NAmITEL VORONTSOV, NOSENKO said that he had never

met him and hed no personal, or aimilar connect tons

he seens to have coupletely forgotten ever having

claimed a personel relationship*

PREISEREUND and STORSBERG NOSENKO Mag asked abo

Johan PRESSREUND whom he had eariter claimed to have han

In: 1960-61 2 Moscow as an agent arant the mister cod

FREUND In 1960%

Ne told nOsEIKo that preTapriND told ur

that he had not met NoseyKo untll 196% NOSENKO dented

this."e then added to hle concer by telling him funtry.

fully, but wicha reasonable pattmate of the true tuatt

that PRISERUND 180:3a1d, chat the kon had told him to e

he firat met hostiko in 1960 When polyaraphed NOSENKO r

sated strongly and constatently to questlonsion the auble

These reactions and our follow up may well bear on the cru

tion. of whether SToRshEra actually recrulted Disthe

an Issue ve have, revleved with the PRT. NOSENKO must bei

concerned because he now eye that the STORSeERa case wi

has claimed as his very ovat

thue disappears the nole case that nos

and personal background, There are many indications, r

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 8

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

easter

notion fact a kee officer, similarlyhe stories of hte

eszly school and military servico are Inconstatent end

unbel levable. He are trying in this interrogation tol

clarity this, importent point. Anong the points covered

so car are the followingt

in one

serses of toaty for eranple, he was ented, bether

Minteter of Shipbullding van NOSENKO was the father

Of hurtiavenoyich NOsyuko and was then ented whether

Mintater nostco was hier those sim lany with

Taper HOSPIKO, his ostensible nothere, Nostro dia

notir eact to

NOSENKO" but.

esked LE

these werent.

sleive

questtons conc

bel levethe

hin

Mn

ven a serter

of his given

and the polyu

Ingly tense.

t) on both sur

this sort may

deteroves tom

even help 48 C

pursue this-ti

For

Test lette

hol

alphabet

a covere

show that h

in

at the Tetter alon

e recognize thet ten

o valid results.

It cert

tho he

same 081,51 doubt M1:

may

Cring

napalto

end famil

neme as well.

Observ

end so per tengs

egente non.

120 L3S

suited and henated.

men ford

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 9

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES, ONLY

and various years of imprisonment.

He seered con-

alstently sensitive to correctional labor campa

at the type of prison, and to several possible

causes of imprisonmentr partlcularly homosexuallty.

desertion and felony. Interestlagly enough he was

not sensitive to questions concerning imprisonment

for self-infllated wounds despite his story that he

had shot himelf in the hand during the war.

He

seemed more constatently sensitive to Siberia as

the area of imprisonment but the sesults were not

as clear as on other aspects of his story. He seems

particularly sensitive to the years 1954-1956, which

Immediately preceed the perlod Erom 1956 onwerd,

when he began to appear in KCB operations.

TOP SEGRET

YES ONLY

---

