# 104-10074-10149

## Page 1

104-10074-10149

INFORMATION REY

RT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

To and a co trainloon to alarian the Neh to Dom of the a a State piron i promisin a *

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

TELEGRA

age lows Tille 10, USC S

COUNTRY

NICARAGUA/ CUBA

REPORIANO.

TDCS-3/439,416

SUBJECT

DATE OF

INFO

PLACE:&

PROPAGANDA ACTIVITIES OF QUINTIN PINO

MACHADO, CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO NICARAGUA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orily

- 2 JUNE 1960

Do Not Reproduce

NICARAGUA, MANAGUA) (2 ANE 1960)

DATE DISTR.

3 JULY 1960

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

28 MAY

REFERENCES

IN 47355

22

DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL:

FIELD REPORT NO. (HNM)452.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT.IS. TENTATIVE

SOURCE

A NICARAGUAN BUSINESSMAN (B) WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG MEMBERS OF THE

IMPACTO STAFF Il

1. ON 28 MAY 1960 QUINTIN RINO MACHADO, CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO NICARAGUA,

WAS CALLED TO THE NICARAGUAN FOREIGN MINISTRY AND WARNED ABOUT HIS INTERFERING

IN NICARAGUAN INTERNAL AFFAIRS, ESPECIALLY HIS CONTACT WITH INDALECIO

PASTORA IN EL SALVADOR.

2. ON 30 MAY PINO ASKED IGNACIO BRIONES TORRES, DIRECTOR OF THE

NEWSPAPER IMPACTO, TO RESERVE SPACE IN HIS NEWSPAPER FOR A STORY FROM THE

UNIVERSITY STUDENTS OF NICARAGUA THAT WOULD DENOUNCE AN INVASION PLOT

AGAINST CUBA BEING PREPARED IN NICARAGUA BY CUBAN EXILES. THE STORY WAS

BROUGHT TO THE OFFICES OF IMPACTO BY JOAQUIN SOLIS PIURA, PRESIDENT OF

THE UNIVERSITY STUDENT GOVERNING BODY.

STATEs

ELEGRA

CASSIFICATION - DESSEN

MATION CONTROLI

S-E_ C-R-E-T

NSAS KNISH BUSIAN DOCH BON 8 100. 3 BOS: 100%

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

10071

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ICATION i DISSE

S-E-C-R-E-T

NATION CONTEOLS

TDCS -3/439,416

PAO®

47355

2

30 (FIELD COMMENTS PINO LEFT NICARAGUA ON 30 MAY SOMETIME AFTER HAVING

MADE HIS REQUEST OF IMPACTO.

IPPACTO GAVE THE STORY HEADLINE TREATMENT ON

31 MAY. ON 2 JUNE PRESIDENT SOMOZA FORMALLY ANNOUNCED THAT. NICARAGUA MAD

BROKEN DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH CUBA BECAUSE OF CONTINUED CUBAN INTERFERENCE

IN NICARAGUAN INTERNAL AFFAIRS AND THE DISSEMINATION OF COMMUNIST PROPAGANDA

FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY.

4. FIELD DISSEMS STATE (ORALLY)

ON CONTROLS

S-L-C-R-F-T

---

