# 104-10071-10094

## Page 1

104-10071-10094

7P

VIA:

DISPATCH

SEEN ARE OR SEA POUC

Secret

CLASSIFICATION

TO

: Chief, hiD

16-12

FROM : Chief of Station, (Quito)

SUBJECT: GENERAL - TUCE

SPECITE- H9Q/FRQ/68 Part I - Gustavo Frique SALADO Torres

DATE: 29 JAnURrE 1959

Attached berewith are copies of HSQ/PRQ/68 Part I for Justavo Enrique

Salgado Torres, who will be the subject of a subsequent dispatch.

Ga bows

28 January 1957

EPD/ENS

Enclosares: Poar copies of (HEA/YRQ/68 Part I

Distribation:

23 - Egtra, w/encl.

2 - Files

APERTURE CARD

REPRODUGTIONS

FER 51-28A

Secret

CLASSIFICATION

•I COPY

75/2

O1: 10007

---

## Page 2

000001

ONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 1 - BIOGRAPHICAL, INFORMATIOF

Inetruction:

1. Write clearly.

Angver all questione completely.

not apply, write

"not applicable"

If question does

3. Attach blank pages If additional space le needed.

Full Name

11s1.18010iue idi22 Torres

HE /PRO/68

Lalgade 7ee1,

". inace, nickname, lopal changed istato brierly eloo, reacon dind

pla:o of use.!

9. 10. Date of birth this ille

b. Place or birth lisante icular

6. Fresent citizenship, race if appropriate casalarian

%. Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (1e different

free 6.1 lenatorian, all the tlue

B. Present residence (Oner, tenant, sub-tenant.) _ quito, fillama

I an a copropriator witi. my brothers

8. Permanent address (if different from 8.)

Ibe same

10. Present occupation (full title, salary otc.) I an a laid adviser at thic

Superintendent's office and ear 2,200 sucres

11. Naturalization of subject or of close relatives in the United Stated. "'?

(G1yo date and name in which cortificato granted.) _ Yet alicable

V.

12.

Relatives, friends, correspondente in United States. (Explain ra-

iat1onship) I hare ne relativer aud nu Crienda la 151, bur i hare mear

acquaintances

81-ФSA

MAY 1

APERTUNE

CARO

REPRO

---

## Page 3

0000:

MOON T

13. Father - full name, occupation, present realdence, year and place

of birin, nationality

at birth and subeequent nationalities.

juse Franciscens

Mala, misian in. co dier, situ; he wils

tom it Covarbe in 1a53; he was and he in condorian

14. Mother - same Information as 13.

sethsale todi de salgado, Hossehold, inito; she was born in.

Cagambe in 1990; she wis'and sie in liciadorien

•15. Wifo (or husband) - Pull name, maiden name, date and place of

birth,

date and place of marriage, nationality at birth and any subsequent

nationalitles, present residence, divorce, annulment. (Give date

for all previous marriagee.)

vot a,plicable.

16. Children - fuil names, sex, year and place of birth, nationairty

at birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residence.

You ar. licable

17.

Brothers

and

sisters - Sane information as 16.

-Luis Humberto, 1905, Cayambe, Ecuador; Ecuadoran

Marla Judith,

1914, Quito, Ecuador; Ecuadoran

Laura,

1918, quito,

Ecuador; Ecuadoran

ilaúl Guillermo, 1920, quito, lcuador; Ecuadoran

Gerardo,

1924, Quito, Forador; Ecuadoran

-Fanny SALGADO Torres, 1929, Quito, Ecuador; Ecuadoran

¿Yolanda SULSADO Aguirre, 1938, quito, Ecuador; Ecuadoran

-2 -

ODUCTIONE

---

## Page 4

+00000

У•:'

18. Relatives in service of any government, names and poastions held.

19. Let all offlelal identity papere held with dates, numbers, place.

and dust released no on aid loss.

Identity card in. 19590, issed in uito on the ilth serte ber 1$50

an deliston dégree practicea, memberahip in religious ordere

Catholic; I attend services bely seldom; 1 am not a member of

any religiois onder

21. Present and past political affiliations

in tresent no abbershare frog 19sd to 1os7, wion I was a stadent, te

interid to communist party :

22. Travel sutello country of present rosidence - country, datoo,

purpoee, people and rime viêlted

Pro 1925 to 1931: Colombia, Venezuela, trace, armany, Denmark,..

dory, sweden, Finland, als:la, spain,

Ataly, as A tourist

In 1936:

Helgim, Neth.raando, todard, Portugal,

1p9u9.dd, Cohol, Jarmica, etc., as il

23. Education - school, location, course, dorreo, doles

Henriery school, secondary sehool mad unitersieg an ulto

low; l took my diree of lagger An decriber 1141

24. Languaros and dialecto (Indicato proficiency as good, pair, poor.)

Language blish speak minel Road aled

_ Undorarand seet

Language Exerch Spenk iled Road vod

Understand 100d

LAngUage iCAr Spook scal Road inad

Underoiand =2000

on the sane level: Iralian; aussian; satisfactory: Greek, fortuduese;

1: - 3-

AGO

it 8

---

## Page 5

4-00000

25. MilItary service-detes, countrs, undt, rank, duts, where

services performed, decorations, when dlacharged, why. Glve

detalla 1f over prisoner of. war

vot die licable

26, Prodent and past nemberonip in organtzatione (profoseional, socidi

political, otc.)

I aun

a nunder of tu lamers' anild of ito; se nuejlal setool

graduates. I din'e belong to any political organizati.n

:-l27, Spocial akilie, abilities, hobbies (radio, photography, otc.)

l'am a pianist

28. Financial statue - earnings, bank deposite, securities, property

Satistactory lina.cial, osition; l am a co, roprietor of two

houtes in suito

29. Employment history - type of work, salary, dates, employers, ad-

dresson, reasona for loaving. Include employment by any government.

During 14 years I, was a ; rofessor at the Central University in Cuito:

I left it in 1155 (Septenbor) because I was not-reappointed by the

council. The University is sucialist led and my anti-socialist

positin was well know through the press.

TUNE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

APER

---

## Page 6

O000A!:

PROl

i9: (contifued)

In the , irind

118-1941, 1 tids

a translator de do ineral staif and a

profes or at lo cilitary ladeny. The leaded mis caosed following the

in 19do, lois on fricial of eu: secretaria: of the

congress or a secritary to do vice oresident of tle legublic. I quirted

19l118,

to it

rudait. cat.

In

1941,

I was a lool adviser do tue Ministry of dublic iorks did I left

Decoder

31st

swing to a

In 1950,

mastitilut

to tire decords jenerai of one arublic. I left my

just on

Decriber ilit drilo to is l'alone esta

Fron 1931 to 1951, l was in l adviser to the Ministry of foreign Airiirs.

I was dismissed becausé l belongid do the stati di "El Coercion Mi at

thet cime nal coercia" joined eno politicalorpositi.n.

In the a men of septeter lyso, I tas appointed legal aloser

to tie

superintent's oflice, a post which I am keeping so far.

30, "Hae eub joce doné any writing? cive datalie Including titles of

booke, articlop, publishers, dates.

i pubilsted three books on legal subjects: ~vida del verecho en el

Antiguo Reino de quito"; "Il Cuso Néstor Borja Desce el l'unto de Vigra

del Derecho Internacional"; and Jurisprudencia de la Cancilleria Ecuatortaná".

Since 114u, I have written numerous articles on legal and internati.nal

topics in "Cl Comercio".

31. List persons living at same address, close aesociate, (individuale or

groupe,) correspondente at home and abroad.

My parents, brothers and 3 nephews live with me in Calama, 244.

I correspond occasionally with

some friends in the country und abroad;

•Dr. Bolivar uLES, Ecuadorian Embassy, La faz, Bolivia

Nestor Borja, Hamburo, Germany

Professor, Louistkutner, Chicado, U.S.A., Kutner Co dese of Internatlunal kas,

Tokyiet than character

and Georgestrgyropoulos, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

references.

or.

Carlos MLYTILLA Orteja, "El Comercio", Quito

Bolfvar VALLADViS,

Dr.

.8r.

Alfred KARDER, Compañia Hamilton, quito

Carlos TORR Zaldumbide, Ministry of Forei,' Affairs, quito

Or. José intonio HALUERO, Sarofa Moreno 1224,

Quito

- 5 .

DODUATIONG

LAps

---

## Page 7

14-

00.

_PROL

33°

Court

record - cour, lato, irresta, alarges, puniamento,

sentances, arquittala, jeructrication, otc.

dut ai, licabie

34. Deacription !Use seriear atinderda oi menaurement, if pobaible.)

Age-

tu stars

Apparent age _Liit:0.: less

Eelght 1.22 mts

Eyes.

Face - shape -

Complexion_ ralist dick

Sex

Mile

• General appearance

Prominent features

Other Identifging features

Posture

Ho1ght 135 seuls, more ue Liss

Tooth surte anticicie

Ha1r - black

Scare - none

Build

_sulter

35. Other mlacellaneous biograptical data and commente. :

r.

---

