# 104-10234-10113

## Page 1

104-10234-10113

7.=.:010

11L8 MIND 189, SO GRANCH O

DESTROY LOBIE.

di!

HE91193:03

SECRET

888506/0719 48710166

FACE 1058

REPRDSUCTICN PROMIBITES

112

THE

Line a

Bin copy

ASTANCE COPT

Queues Duorce rosco

1

SECRET 2915582

DIR INFO VAVE CITE BEIR 2400 (SPRANGE ACTING)

65

30KM6 N85000

SECTION ONE ATOTEO AF TUC

TYPIC AMBRAY ERPERUSAL MHAPRON

CHITT

RES A. BESASSTW84S58)

B.

DIR 91583

IM.

TXSEE-HOUR MEETING AT SPRANGE HOME 29 MAR

AMBRAYS RELUCTANI COME TO FORIAL AGREEMENT BUT VERY

VILLING COOPERATE. A/I ANXIOUS MAKE PRESS CONFERENCE

TO DENOUNCE PARUMEN IN GENERAL AND AMTHUG/I IN PARTICULAR.

KAS BEEN PERSUADED DO NOTHING UNTIL WE FORM DEFINITE PLAN

OF ACTION.

# 2. IN OWN MANDURITING ALI LISTED FOLLOWING FRIENDS

..HE COULD CONTACT AND WHO ANTI-COMMIE:

A. ANTONIO CARESS FRANCE) UNO SCHEDULED

RETURN PBRUMEN CAPITAL CITE EARLE APRIL TO BECOME

has de. tw

по?

DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER.

RAFAEL HERNANDES (FRANCE).

Amado

Co TANapE PALENQUE CAUSTRIA),

JOSE LUIS GALBES, (GREECE) WHO

NOW

SICK

IN

PBRUMEN BUT WILL MOST LIKELY RETURN TO GREECE•.

'is thes

but in that d lo in a

roderica

PRODUSTON BY CARER THAN THE ISSUE DIFICE IS PROHISITED

Copy j'es

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•NOT GU DISCISSECRET

LO UNNAMED SI ITARIES AT ENBASSY GREECE.

THE REFS

895 85658

T.. SERENESY SANJUR CITALYS.

G. FORGOITEN NAME OF FOREIGN TRADE REP ITALY.

• Ho CARLOS MARISTANY CHOLLADS STILL IN PERUMEN

Amcrumb-1

BUT BELIEVES HE WILL RETURN.

I• ARMANDO ENTRALSO SHANAS.

EJO

J• CAHRA ARGUDIN GENEVA UOJa).

Marciso masta

VORA ANDIAS.

LO PAUL AMADO BLANCO QISBOND.

NO MIGUEL ALFONSO CUADO-

¡. ARTURO SABER

O • NAME FORGOTTEN ANB TO CANADA WHO

PLAYBOY. • Amisico Fernandez

SO AlS DESERTEN AR UDIN AS HOST IMPORTANT ALONE

VITH ENSPALGO AND BLANCO. ALL VERY ANTI-CONTLE. SLAND AS

AMado - Blanco

BROTHER HEICAN IS DEPUTY MINISTER OF TRADE AND FATHER, IS

AMB TO VATICAN.

4o WHEN ASKED IF HE COULD GET REINSTAIED IN

FOREIGN SERVICE A/1 EXPLAINED HE HAD "VERY SERIOUS"

abom

what

ARGUMENTS VISH ROA AÃO AS RESULT HE HAVE LA RESTONATION.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

411 STILL SEINS PAID -. POM. IN FORETEN. 4A! EX. MAINED THERE

RUMORS ROA IN TROUBLE BUT HE STILL VERY IMPORTANT PERSON IN EYES OF

OTKER LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. AS SUCH AMTHUR/L FORCED TO

KEEP HIM. ALI SAID "SOME BELIEVS" THAT ONE DAY. ROA WILL

BE RUN OVER BY AUTO. _ THIS THE WAY ANIMUS/S GETS PEOPLE

OUT OF THE VAY WITHOUT BRINGING THEY TO TRIALE.

S. ROA'S SON WAS LIVING IT UP IN SPAIN WHEN

HE HEADED TRADE MISSION. AMTHUS/I SAW PICTURES AND

• EXPENSE ACCOUNT FOR NIGHT CLUBS SO PUT ROA'S. SON

IN JAIL FOR ABOUT WEEX.: THEN PUT KIM IN ARMY FOR 2

YRS AFTER WHICH KE WILL HAVE 2 YRS WORKING IN THE

FIELDS WITY THE PEASANTS ...

6. CONCERNING ROLANDO CUBELA'S AFFAIR: A/I

SAID IT IS BELIEVED THAI A CERTAIN FAZAL OR TESSAL

Felafiel

WHỌ IS AN ANTHUR AGENT VISITE PBRUMENERS IN MIAMI DEA

WHERE HIS BROTHER IS ACTIVE IN ANTI-PRETEN ASFAIRS. AT-THIS

TIME ME. HEARD OF CUBELAS PLANS FROM BROTHER AND REPORTED

THEN TO AMTHUS /1 ON HIS RETURN TO PERUREN:

=70 ACLSAID HE DEFINITELY KNOWS TO BE ARRESTED I

7dk094a

Pies BeFe

N/55658

":..

!?".

103004

---

## Page 4

14-00000

S. GUIN

C. VALDINA RESTATE SCONNIES odd.

SAELi NOSE MARLA AGUILEZA (AIN UNION)

"PAD" ISLASIAR PATINO (PORT UNIONS

TRISE YOF?

1668565₴

8e A/I SAID FOLLOWING RUMORED TO BE ARRESTED&

A. LAZARO RENA, LEADER CENTRAL CONFEDERATION

OF WORKERS.

CO 19A503 NIMMEZ.

9. A/I CLAIMS ARREST OF FOLLULING IS SUSPECTED

A. FaH. UNDER DIRECTOR AFRICA NEAR EAST

AFFAIRS EGURIN WHO HAS RADE JOKES ABOUT AMENUG/LO

..8a BLAS ROCA

"IF NOT NOM WITHIN 3 MONTHS".

C. I.C.A.!.C, MEMBERS ALFREDO GUEVARES

CHOMO SEXUAL

FRIEND OF RAUL CASTROSS NAJOR CHURCHO MONTANE ARE JeSa

LEONEL 3615 CE.3.I.R.2.

Crimo

irritat

---

## Page 5

14-00000

• CLASSINED MESSAGE

• SECRET

1INZ

I PAGESCES

17A NEGRO PPOOLEM IS SPOUTUE. AÁ! SADO YOU NIT:

NEGRO LOVERS. ANTHUSA PLATE DO COLORES GROUP BY GIVINa

THEY TITLED JOES A30UE THEIS CORRETENCE.

OFTEN LAPSE

GROUPS 05 NEGRDES ENCIES AROUND ANTHUGAL'S RESIUSHCE

OR OFFICE AND ANTHUG/I COMES OUT TO "AKE SPEECH AND AT

RANDOM PICK OUT OF CROUD PEOPLE WHOM HE THEN AND THERE

APPOINTS TO SOME OFFICE FOR FUTURE TORY.

:110 A/I SAID MOST IF NOT ALL PRPUTENERS IN CONGO

ARE NEGRO. THS-LEADER IS CAPTAI",TENDY THONDIKE "A BRAVE

NEGRO SOLDIER". A/I BELIEVES THERE ARE AFOUT 23

PBRUMEN MAJORS- AND 28 PBRUNE! CAPTAINS NOW IN CONGO.

THEY ARE BASED OUT OF CONGO BRAZZAVILLE, UNDER

12. ' DE GUA"TANANO DAY.

A/1 SAID ONLY REPEAT ONLY.

ONS PERSO! MAS THIS IN HAVE -- ANTHUS/L UNO MAS NO

-1.

•, i

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

PAGE TWO BEIR 2400 SECRET

PRESENT PLANS.

ARTHUG/1 REALIZES THE INMEPENT DANGERS

• IF, GUANTANAMO BAY IS ATTACKED AND THUS NOTHING WILL

HAPPEN TVERE,

13.

FEW DAYS BEFORE A/1 LEFT BEIR AMTHUG/I MADE HIS

¡ REFER POR ANYONE TO LEAVE PBRUMEND BEIR EMBASSY - PRESUMABLY

ALL OTHERS - RECEIVED INSTRUCTIONS TO MAKE BIG PROPAGANDA

PLAY TO EFFECT PBRUMEN A FREE AND OPEN COUNTRY WHERE

PEDALE COME AND BO. ON ARRIVAL PBRUMEN PRES DORTICO

EXPLAINED. TO GROUP OF CHIEFS OF MISSIONS THEN ON CONSULTATION

THAT AMTHUG/I THOUGNT ABOUT. 189, 000 WOULD APPLY TO LEAVE AND

THIS WOULD BE GOOD PUBLICITY® A'I SAID PASSPORI OFFICE.I

"'an

THEN HAD TEN EMPLOYEES AND WITHIN DAYS INCREASED TO

1ED AS APPROX 380, 000 APBIED IN FIRST FEW DAYS, IT

WAS TIEN AMTHUB/I GOT WORRIED AT BACKFIRE AND ORDERED

RESTRIÇTIONS ON CERTAIN TYPES-WHO COULDFLEAVE. ALSO

PUT YELTARY TRAINING THER LEFECT. ALSO RULED ANYONE

APRASZISTO GO PEPRIME COULD NO LONGER WORK IN

AS VAITING TINE LONG THIS PERVENTED

LARGE PERCENTAGE FROM APPLYING. A/I SAID HIS

DOCTOR BROTHER TOLD HIM ABOUT 75. PERCENT OF

cities at

TAGE GIFE

IN 89658

as we creepender peter

wristan

---

## Page 7

AY PAGE THREE BEIR D•90 SECHET

• DOCTORS APPLIED TO GO POPRIME.

14• A/I CONTINUALLY REFERRED TO AMTHUG/I AS

"INSANE"• HE DEFINED THIS AS NOT LOGICA@S "VERY

STRANGE, ONE DAY HE I @GOODBIEND AND NEXT MONTH

HE WIGHT NAVE YOU KILLED."

A/I SAID THE WHOLE

GOVERNHENT IS AMTHUQ/1. NEÑODY CAN ARGUE OR DISCUSS

VERSITY

WITH HIM. HIS FORUM IS THE UN

FREE WHERE HE STOPS

AT ANY TIME OF DAY OP. NIGHT. GATHERS A GROUP AROUND

HIM AND MAKES FOREIGN POLICY STATEMENTS • THIS® ITHOUT

ANY CONSULTATION WITH F.M. OR OTHERS. HE OFTEN

TAKES INSE OCCASIÓNS TO ANSVER HIS SISTER.

HE STARTO

THIS WITH "SOMEONE FROM MY FAMILY SAID..".

A/1 SAID

BROADCAST FOR

ANTHUG/I'S SISTER ERICAUS

FRE

1226

HAVING

15, 'ALI SAID NOT ONLY THE THINHING CLASS BUT THE

MASSES NOW ARE DISILLUSIONED WITH ANTHUG/I WAC A YRS ABO

PRONISED GREAT THINGS IF THE PEOPLE WOULD ONLY

SACRIFICE FOR THEM. THE PEOPLE DID AND AMTHUQ/I COULD

NOT FILL HIS PROMISES.

fOR EXAMPLE AM! IN FBRISEN

RECIVED ONLY ONE POUND RICE PER MONTH AND 9 CENTS

WORTH COFFEE A WEEK CONE CUP A WEEXS AND THIS WAS

Maintain:.

SECREE

"Fir

t odd dopest dead

star the bette tess dut di

1i...4.

theodor desec

?...

IN 81x58

C1a30

libe

keeparts:

---

## Page 8

14-00000

• PAGE FOUD BEIR 20P!

i 85658

SPECIAL TREATMENT.

A/I DID SAY THAT "AJOPITY OF

PEOPLE ANTI-ANTHUS/I AND ANTI SOVIET BUT THEY NOT READY

TO RISE UP ASAINST THEM, "AMTHUG/I'S THPEATS ARE

STRONGER THAN PEOPLE'S HUNGER."

NEXT MTG I APRIL WHEN WE SHOULD COME TO

MORE FORMAL UNDERSTANDING.

47• INDEX NAMES.

SECRET

CFN 2400 A/I AMTHUG/I AMTHUG/L'S ARTHUGAL A/I MOT ALL PERUMENERS

CONSO TERRY THONDIKE A A/I 20 PARUMEN 20 PBPIREN CONGO CONGO

BRAZZAVILLE COMMIE RE GUANTANAMO BAY A/1 ANTHUG/I NO PRESENT

ANTHUG/A GUANTANANC BAY NOTHING WILL A/I ARTHUG/I PBRUMEN PBRUMEN A

PBRUHEN PRES DOTTICO ANTHUG/1 186,009 A/2 100 389,B60 ANTHUG/L

PEPRIME NO LONGER PERIMEN 201 75 POPRIME A/S ANTHUG/S NOT LOGICAL

AT ANTHUGS A FOM ALL'ANTHUGAL'S AS NOT ONLY ANTHUS/I A YRS

ANTHUG/S NOT FILL APS PBRUMEN 9 CENTS A A AVI ANTI-ANTHUG/S ANTI

SOVIET NOT READY ANTHUS/L'S TIG1

BT

a. d

::..

NANN

---

