104-10063-10005)

Lt,

MARKED FOR INDEXING

DISPATCH | sicieiiaiaar an

Chicf, WOMUSE 2 NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INFO, JONtY QUALIFIED DESK

' Chief 2 Europes es i A [CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM, v2 6- t
: [oniée of Station,| 4 MACROFIIM

Sv{TRYBAT MHCHAOS
Black

Sp Sy

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES —om—
Action: See paragraph 3

22 RETURN TO CIA
Reference; [ocoa}i472i, 30 September 1969 Bai ground
= Do, reduce

1,9] AS you will note in paragraph 7 of the Reference, we
asked {SMABOVE] to give us compiled information that they have on
various MHCHAOS targets. At the time they said that these con-
tained their own internal source information and could not be
passed, They promised, however, to furnish us the_same material
in a form that could be passed, The attached two\| books entitled (|
"The Black Power Movement in Canada" and "Unrest in the Academic
Community (Canada) "/were recently passed to us in response to
this request,

2. From a cursory review of the material it appears that
some of it is already known to you, Some i: vert information
while other items reflect results of {SMABO' nvestigations} and
thorough checking, We are also attac! ing [SMABOVE's} letter of
transmittal which updates some of the information! You will note

[that they invite our comments.

2 3._ We feel that this is somewhat of a break through with
(sm BOVE] We have not received this kind of complete report from
them retently. We intend very soon to offer some comments to
them and especially offer our appreciation, Your comments also
would be appreciated,

0% 4. We do not know for sure if LNERGO was also given these
Trooks.j We assume they were not, If we determine that they were
passed to LNERGO we will let you know,

fo tes
VL beadece, Clif
Theodore D. NOLTHAM
Attachment; #2# ufsfe.
As Stated
Distribution;

+2 —- Chief, WOMUSE w/att

2 - Chief, EUR w/o att oO TOS Z-—
CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER ‘DATE i
22
(ocoa}14814 4 November 1969
‘CLASSIFICATION ‘HOS FRE NUMBER

nl SGT AYBAT 200-006-387/3




. ‘ ai ; APPENDIX 16

\

In early 1967, BROSE received a Canada Council grant for research
“on Mexican politics and, in the fall of 1967, visited Cuba.

: BROSE, one of the first exponents of academic freedom and tenure

of appointments at SFU, was a key spokesman during the CAUT censure
of the SFU administration issue. He supported the radical group's
attempts to push faculty demands on academic and administration
matters to the extreme.

Leroy Roger BUTCHER ~ student, SGwU

BUTCHER, a West Indian and a member of the SGWU

Caribbean Students Society, attended the Black University Conference
(BUC) at Howard University, Washington, on 13 to 17 November 1968
where he stated that only by working together would Black people

achieve their objective - total liberation, black nationality and
> black identity. BUTCHER was elected Chairman of the International
‘.: Black Student® Union organized at the BUC and plans were made for the
Union to operate in every university in the Western Hemisphere. It
was following BUTCHER's return to Montreal that the Black Students
Association was organized. BUTCHER was one of the key leaders
during the occupation of the Computer Centre at SGWU and was one
of those arrested during the riot. 7 ‘

Sidney COONTZ - Associate Professor, SFU

COONTZ, a U.S.A. citizen who was granted landed
immigrant status in Canada in 1966, became an Associate Professor -
of Mathematics at SFU in January 1968. COONTZ has a history of
icra involvement which, although sporadic, dates back to thé

930's. ¢ i . :

# Laughtin Bernard CURIE - Professor, SFU.

CURRIE, formerly an American citizen, was implicated as a
Communist fellow traveller in the mid-1940 espionage trials in the
United States and subsequently went to Colombia where he took out
citizenship. Following this, in May 1967, he came to Canada and
has since obtained landed immigrant status. CURRIE was responsible
for interviewing and recommending Maurice HALPERIN, described below,
fora position at SFU and purposefully played down HALPERIN's
Marxist leanings, claiming that HALPERIN had been a victim of cir-
cumstances, :

o /3



14-00000

D

DANIELS, Danny, A5/1
DANSEREAU, Suzanne, 49, 93
DARRELL, Bryan, 95
DAVIS, Chester, 85, 89, 91,
93, 127, A16/3
DAVIS, Horace Coane They
“AK/6, &16/3
DAY, Buddy, 88-89
De FREITAS, "Michael
(Michael X), 88
DELINE, Graham, 55-56
DENT, Kenneth Victor, 65
De POE, David,
DEWART, Leslie Sutherland,
AL,/6
DOFNY, Jacques ino Paths
.-. (Prof. )y 429 109,
127, Al2/1-2° yttyi4
DOUGLAS, Rosie, 84-86,

88-89, 91, 93-94, 127,
16/1,

A
DRACHE, Daniel Eron, 31, 34
DUBE, Pierre, 50
DUBUG, Alfred (Prof. ), ae
DUTSCHKE, Rudi, 9, 27, b&

EAST, Kenneth, 119
EBRAHIM, Ahmid Gora, 81
EDMONDS} Duncan, 55°
EDWARDS; Bob, A4/10
ELPHINSTONE, Bruce, 136
ENDICOTT, Dr. James G.,
Aly At/9-10,

ENDICOTT, Norman, AL/5-7,
AL/9= BS :

ENGLER, Allan

EPSTIEN, Donala& (Prof),
us tee, Al6/\

ERNST, (see ADAMS; Eric

ESCARTIN, Ricardo, 42

EVANS, Donata Dwight, AL/6,
AL/9

E

FANON, Franz, 87

FAUTEUX, Benoit, 58

FEIT, Harvey Allan, 31 :

FELDHAMMER, Louis, 114 pee

FERRETTI, Andree, ce 103, 109, Al3 ga

FISHER, Sethard -

FORMAN, James, ab, 8

FOULKS; James G., A?

a = se 31,93 ws
K, Kenned: — x

> Alers Ys ’ ’ eS

FRYE, H. Northrop, A4/5
G

GALLAGHER, John, 121
GARAUDY, Dr. Roger (Prof), 98,
a2l2, Kl2/1

GARCIA, Jacinto, 65

GELLNER John, 27

GIBBS, Beverly, 72, A10/1

GOLDMANN, Lucien (Prof.),A12/1

GOLDSTICK, Daniel Jeffrey
(Danny), 40, 64-65

a GOODINGS, St: ewart , 55

““GRAHAM, David, 79°

GRAY, Stanley, 3L, 50-51, 82,
gai 109, 136, A5/1-3

GREENBANK, Tom, 72

GRIFFIN, Phillip, 85

GROULK, Lionel, Ptoo

GUEVARA, "Che", 24

H

HALPERIN, Maurice, 126, A16/2,
A16/5

HANLY, Charles Mervyn Taylor,
123, AL/1, AL/6
HARDING, Janes 30, 32, 39-40

4, 143, 43, A8/i
HAY, Rodent tk Winston, 118
HAYDEN, Tom, 27
HEIBERT, Ken, 114
HEMMINGWAY, Dave, 72, A10/1
HERZOG, Alan (Fred), 82, A16/5


-5- APPENDIX 16

Kennedy Jerome FREDERICK - student, SGWU

FREDERICK, a West Indian, arrived in Canada in August
1967 to attend university at SGWU. FREDERICK is a member of the
militant Negro movement at the University and advocates violence.
He is considered by some parties to be extremely dangerous and
capable of drastic actions. He was active in organizing the
occupation of the Computer Center at SGwU and was one of those
arrested during the riot.

YE Maurice HALPERIN - Professor, SFU

* HALPERIN was born on 3 March 1906 at Boston, Massachusettg
and entered Canada in the spring of 1968. In late 1953 he left the
United States for Mexico in order to avoid testifying before a

_ United StategsSenate internal sub-committee. In 1958, when the
Mexican Government began deporting United States Communists,
HALPzrIN went to the Soviet Union, and became a visiting professor
at the U.5.5.n. Academy of Sciences. He went to Cuba in October
ly62 as a professor of Economy at the University of Havana, where
he remained employed until coming to Canada. He is currently
employed with the Faculty of Education, Behavioural Science
Foundation, at Simon Fraser University. As noted above, Laughlin
Bernard CURHIE lobbied very hard to have HALPERIN accepted by
Simon Fraser University. CURRIE was aware of HALPERIN's background
and "watered it down" to get him the appointment. 1

Of particular interest in this case is the fact that
CURRIE and HALPERIN were associated with the same espionage group
in the United States. His application for landed status was the
subject oi an objection by the RCMP and, as yet, no final decision
has deen made by tne Minister of Immigration.

j Alfred Alan HERZOG ~ graduate student, McGill University

HERZOG, a U.S.A. citizen, travelled to several Canadian
university campuses with gobert cruise, a leader of the Inter-
nationalists (pro-Chinese Communist), in their promotion of the
Canadian Student Movement. He is a member of the Intellectual
and Patriotic Workers of Quebec (les Intellectuels et Ouvriers
Patriotes du Quebec - IOPQ), was involved in the occupation of SGW
in February 1964 and is a close associate of the leader of the :
Incernationalists H.S. BAINS (see APPENDIX 14).



4c =

- of the SDU at SFU, consists of left-wing activists! in this
category. Martin LONEY, who was one of the student leaders
during the SFU incident, entered Canada as a British citizen in
August 1966. Dr. Thomas Burton BOTTOMORE , a leading Marxist
and author on Marxism as well as a British citizen, took up
employment at SFU in 1965 as head of the Department of Political
Science, Sociology and Anthropology (PSA). BOTTOMORE, as head of
the PSA, was responsible for the hiring of Kathleen ABERLE, a
British citizen, and of Thomas Harold BROSE, John William Carl
LEGGEIT, Nathan POPKIN and Martin NICOLAUS, all U.S. citizens.

Although the largest concentration of foreign radicals
at SFU was in the PSA, other activists did take positions in
other departments.1 These included Sidney CGONTZ, Michael Allan
LEBOWITZ, Paul Edward IVORY, and Maurice HALPERIN, all U.S.
citizens,.and Laughlin Bernard CURRIE, a citisen of Colombia.

c Mordgcai BRIEMBERG, who took over as head of the PSA
Department after‘ BOTTOMORE tendered his resignation in 1967, has
expressed a desire to remain as Department head in order to keep
his hand in on the hiring. In this regard, Gerald SPERLING is,
through BRIEMBERG, making efforts to get olm SYLVERS,.an American
Marxist university professor who apparently worked for the Communist
underground in Italy during the early 1960's, into SFU.

Professor Donald E. EPSTEIN of the Political Science

Department at the University of Waterloo, an American citizen
described as a draft dodger and.an SDS member prior to his arrival
in Canada“in 1967, as previously indicated, has been active in :
organizing and directing students in tactics and methods by which

, they could take physical possession of university buildings.

} EPSTEIN, who has been active in student power activities at a
Waterloo, has apparently been refused tenure at that University
and there are indications that activist students intend to challenge

\ the administration in this regard.

\ Professor Norman STRAX 2 an American who was employed
as an Assistant Professor of Physics at the University of New
Brunswick, precipitated the crisis at that University. STRAX was =~
instrumenta] in the formation and activities of the SDS branch at
that point. !

~

1see APPENDIX 16 ‘for further details on
specific foreigners living in Canada.

See APPENDIX 16.

3~he SDS at UNB is also known as the Canadian Struggle
for a Democratic Society (CSDS).

o. /127

