04-0296-10213

ae wf. .

Aes eg SbASontl cet ed
tH OUTING
r fires L—+-gean i
aft ogest 1962 iran
is 1 SIGUE : RE Pong thet wih:
2 : Ne Ch Recert Veko, Destrey.
am: DIRECTOR 1

LONF, BELL 10

mid, DOP, COP, sone, wH. a sine re

to INFO. CHE oe f
- PRIORITY WAVE : 03583 .

lL. s8 RRARST Grits CEAL, AMBAEG-4 CORTACTED 26 ADGUS? ZBMSTAL BY
HASSSLLSTROM USING ALIAS KARTING. (SUBS COMPIADISD LACK GUPPORT AMBANG FX
EFFORT. WAS TODD WOULD. BS COFTACTSD WAVE ARSA BY KURARKER “DE PARTE JT
6B, MARTINS" TO DISCUSS AMBANG PN CAPABILITIES, oo if

8r., TRL YR 1170.
2. COREACT REPORT BEING HARDCARRIBD WAVE a ERRUBE? YOU

oat ets mace na une smatbabe ‘Ides AND DISCUeSION

BRS Ac x Yan eNTaAs eacari8 At aR 23 meqinion YOR KUBARE

SUEPCED sen C98, GOOD Ie RARDISD TA ‘unex pains PLA ALL GROWS, LB., \

Survone op EPaCIIG oF VILL 38 CHSHARED PF RESRES: WRITE PAEDONE FOYE ——

Ce PIANNSD, ASSNTS AYAIUAIS, AMOUNT FINACIAL SUPPORT MEKDRD, |
3. Pan Request Bai $456(00? 5268) P18 CABLE BIOG soca

: ON

e |
: |
fi

: { ED ae
4 ‘
Wi/s/PX (Farosvorth in dract)/ GM Foca Jf
CS EERE, Ac Nam cod iginitingeaeiieerd nar a o/s :
7 AutMEMticatina ofricee |

Castanea Onricee SECRET j

be REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFF CE 1S PROHIBITED.

"rome 1399 “EET



https://asc-app-01:7002/jfk/boxes/JFK64-28/coversheets

HM

OCUMENT

SECRET

Di

Box Number: JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10296-10219
CADRE Ref ID: C00565452

Pub Date: 07/14/1961
Pages: 4

C00565452
104-1

0296-10219

SECRET

105 of 105 1/12/2015 1:54 PM


a

. 2% uly 1961

HEMORARDOU FOR: Gite? a/b :
SRK 2 Comments on MRP Plan for AutiCastro Operations

- ty Tha Hoviatento Revoluctonario del Puchle (CP) has suniattsal
@ plan far the conduct Of anti-Castro operations. ‘he original was
Tecoived from the M? Chief, Manuel axtonio Ray y River, in imal
90.27. me 1962 ania copy of tt hantcarried to Seaigurters an
9 Mme 1961: It ts our -understanling that certain (to us wumspecttt

2. We have been asked to samect on the MRP pina. Attacied ase
| forwarly of thie Section, and
ary .- Parsgraph 6.vas subwitted by

Ne. Dave Phillipe, Guet, Wi/4/Propaganta. IT night edd that po ow
is in agreanont vith the entire:paper. “be all norea, bovever, witd
the conclusion that the plan, as otteltted, fant cee meriting
cupsort from thie or any other U. 3. doverment acency. We cee little
chance for a reosrabis return for coat wmless rea} control ty tne
Provider af the fumis ig duilt into the plen.

: Robert 3. Moore
Chie, W/h,/Pc

Metribution:
Original & 1 = Adbirenses



1. ‘The iG? ‘plen presanted ‘iy Ninaio hay proposes, in brief, that.
the HRP be provided vith fume in the azount of $2,343,009 for a
Six-month period, vith.whlch to mount anti-Custro operntions. It ts
aoouned that additional cing would te provided, At a-rate
excocding $2,000,090; ‘per year, until the objectives vere achieved.

2. Bo ware in be Dun te tier arty atatdnant “a8 €3 enat Fotarh; |
if any, the providers’ finds vould recéive far their
other than the inovledge the weney: bid bean’ provided: for furtherance
Of the desiruble goal ‘of bringing sbout the.danise of the Caatio regina.

3. It is noteworthy that the plan insists that the MRP retain
Tr eeieed laisse oh eat eens coutewisted. Thus,
it states, on paws 6, that:

“Contributions vill be received vithout campraatising ‘the
regpansibility for decisions and organization of the plans. ‘This doss
not rule out our eearch far eomselling and coantlestion with ‘other
factors. present, out vithort svor curromle-ing tha responsibility ant
absolute control of the re (Under iatugy added)

Tt also oppeara to va tue IT? view that its postition should
be enclogous to that of s goverment- vin-extic which haa been recognised,
an the rightful Tagine of ite country. ‘ims the plan states. that:

“vesecwith the Rovérmonte willing to suport ue ve should
establian high-level contact. vhich vill mio it peeaible to discuss
questions of basi polley of events ani plans opportualy, on sib
footing.”.- (Underlining added)

4. ‘The operations contemplated by the PP are not too Aissintlar
fran those proposed by the Wi/L/PN section for FY 1042. Thsy inelute
the operution of maritime assete capable of reaching all Cuban costs,
the operation of aerial supaiy craft (fro: two bases), tho training and
infiltration of i/? operators end intellipence agents, support of internal
gerrillas, and the treining of eig:t or tex 130-man groups for Introduction
dpto Cuba at the right time. (there {6 also conaideravis stress given to
the mounting of extensive peycholoyical varfnre). ‘The }kP plan vould pose
reury of the’ problems that any It prosrun docs -- the vben, where, how, aad
bov euch questions tuvotved io procuring ani operating atr ani naritine
bases ani the poltey questions relating to aciicne vbich Inelule savetage
oni active resistance.



”

: Se Te ts our view that the 12? Dien should not be supported fa ite
resent form for these reasmns: . # Sereeai

a. The NP ecels exclusive contro: of the anti-Castro ree
ibe plan itselfiatales that the Lest hope Tor. the Guban:people Ls. "otf
by the set of ideas und iis of the democratic left’. Aside fron.the
truth or falsity of. that statean., the ITP ts. in no position to clase
effective leatership af tha anti-Costro restetaice. There bavé been, and
are many grours' in that flelé. ‘The 110 los no record of action ‘of vileb
ve havo reliable evideote:which vould arguo for giving them preférential
Status. In specific instances their claim to cértain capabilities haye
been tested aad fount vanting. Tt te ou viev thet reliance upon grape
4m such, vith no control, {s.detrinental to operational achievemeat.

AL Mgport While retataing
gouplete x So fur as ve are cware there

Tn etther Agency or Goverment noltcies and reguiaticas
verait the handing over ar the cucntamic’ euro envisaged: by the IR? pian :
without retention by the donor of the su measure of control over thw use

ot the funda. ‘the <> pian, e.g., almost certainiy vould involve oyerations
pounted from banes within U. S. territerlal furisdlction, yet those operations
Would rownin under RP “absolute control”. He doutt that the 7.0.1., Custous

end Imaigration Service, Coust Cuant and other concomed agencies would ever

agree to any guch arrmigenest where J. 5. territory {9 concerned, and-vo

vould certainly ve in no positias to vouch for the MRP operations. Anti-

Castro operations pountsd fra: aotere citaics of Cuba are uolny Lo be

attributed to the United States. Stiew thet ta the case, the U. 6. Govemn- .
tent mest contral these operntions as effectively as it Gun.

The TP eels to operate on an equil footing with the providers

governments, icciulins tn saa lnstaices: goverarym -eXd le,
equals by Ue U. 2. Covernment, there ie no precedent for
extending much trestmmt to a private orguataation. To do eo in this caso
would result in the arousing of the bitter emslty of the anti-Fay realetance
groupe, of which there are may, vithout ony curresponding benefit.

tAOCe »

b

a. The * tau Sperutions vould not justify the coot
mvieaved. is » to date, wiather in intelligence or in reaistance

activity, has been necliziste. There are nany neve atarios which refer to
the HAP eg the lunsost ami Lest organizel co: the reciatence grams. fw 12?
plan claims orgzatzation doi to the township level msl states that:

“Toe ERP has an extensive coram{oation net ant ls capetent in
Obtaining indispeasible elexnts af iniel tence.

This may WN sc, Wai ee aw nui evare of any extensive valid
information frea the ‘S? af sny tncrtan: resisiance activity conducted
by thas. he entire histery of \saney operntions Uivalying sroupa suggest
the inndvieaptitty ef hamitas over sukstcattal sucs in the hope of a Niture

ert

e


our “tare” fa taken

“taka”. Aside from certain testod i1alsoa armagesen!
groups to which they

by agente earving under our direction, regatiess of
40 or 49 not belong. :

& {2 ahauld ve pointed out that fra: a political stanivoint the MRP
cr@aization ant plan heve elewenta vorthy of consideration. che most
important 18 that the IP prograg ig one that {s attractive to the Cuban
masses becuse, of all the exile programa, that of the I=? te the nearest ~
to tw originally stated but dairave! platforn of the Castro rrvolition.
Yor the sane reason the ISP ta accoytable to many liowru! tatin Amoriean
Sover=wmts vhtch do not consider supporting other exile groupe. ‘The MP
octera 1.0 people of Cuba « positive progran of social “and ecenante refora.
(hatter such a program vould be compatible with U. 8. tarerests ta, of
fourse, a natter cf controversy.) ‘ovever, in the political aphere the
MRP program appears to break avny strongly fron the 1) caastitution.

In other words tt may ta "Fidelleco sin Fidel”. “bere are other Cuban
exile groups vho propoue aociai ant econaaie referzs elmiiar zo the MiP

in whiten they attewst to base these reforma on sare legal comtimity of
Government; that ia, a retum to tl: 194) ematitution as a vasis for a
democmtte goverment in Cuba.

7. in short, ve believe thut the iTP plan is unreallatie and unworthy
of furcter conaideratton fa ite presen: fora. Develowrnte within taternar
vestatance in Cuba tadtcate that the MP Ls becasiny part of a unified
resistance aml tha :22 peracunel ineide Cuba hem: dented ‘anolo Fay am an
external leader. Cur reviev of the !7P position inside Cura dues not
indicate cha: the :T7 iss the resources for ag exteasive a plen as presented
Dor can the internal !TP hope to direct euch a plan in conhmetion vith
Other resistance alasints. Lven if auc: a plan vere reasivie, wa do not
See any possi! ility of securing a reasonable return tor the ererendous
fpomt Of onay required for this plan unless sae real coucro! is agreed
to by alt aod undo a jert of the plan. Taking into account the conse! taation
of weaisvasco alimenia presently taxing pleco in Cuba, tt te the Agency's
conception that ve can best accorplic: acticn operations against the Castro
ragine ty dealing directly with this unified rap or its representatives
ih other grouse. Naterie: amt financial support would te firmfahed these
ermabe Ba “hey reven’ they bave the assets to eceazlish sec! fic operations
ead Agency-trainod agents uni commieation equlpsent woul ba introlieet
to the varios groups in on effort to Lave scm emtre) und Alrection of
ll effor-s umdertavam. It te presently plennet that
these grams, would recetve assiztaace and directton in
specified above. Hovever, it {e felt that the priaait 62
the resistence clovenca within Cula mate
plan guzxitved by the [P irpructioa!

