104-10(92-10015

Uist 4-63
~y ‘|
WG 10>

E40" 12A.3 Use Previous is
6 old Fac ay co- 4 at
mou Cvs meer MESSAGE

CLASSIFY JO Fie,
cum sensfy lin Ee joe
as SECRET
from. JMAAVE 10E #19 () /RET TO BRANCH C)
ptsteor 0

ACTION. wH/C 8 DVANCE, COPY TUBED 10 ¢s/D0
NFO. cs/to, D CA/O 4, RIJAN, WH 8, WE 8,” IW,
‘ ‘va, FILE, ADOP, CA2, CA/PEG, Ca/PROP, COPS, CI/IC 2, A,

D/OCI 2, D/ONE
WNDEXED arp cone:

CHED
SECR yp p26 ee 16 NOY
\ LON

EILANT BARR MADAY CITE
ee oat
pire. TyPIC
SUPDATA: AMOT-256 AND ALFREDO GALL
9 NOvEMZER 1965. INFORMATICN RECEIVED IN CONVERSATION AT HOME OF

DIR INF

WEG 772
R1UZ IN AMOT REPORT DD-1672,

ARMANSS GERCIA SIFREDO ON 3 NOVEMBER. SOURCE. FOR CCMMENT: AMQT-2

N EE-4455, 15 NOVEMBER 1965. RID: INDEX RE, REY, GARCIA uA
7 UCROFILMED

Shae 2

: OEC 2b i00
LLASS ScCREY CONTROLLED DISSEM

BOS. MICHO. BER.

(Ressicue ACCOMODAT ICH EETWEEN ruLGENcio’ BATISTA ZALDIVAR

THE CUGAN: REPRESENTATION IN EXILE (receryp
> 1666 MiG - eae AA
1505. - wise ge rg

UV

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED
TD PORTION OF This CANDLE HAS BEEN
MADE CUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING

19=200-17

pane? . RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT. Hl
“DA-&- 45. VO. Mew 6.7
rt = Tes
7 — j : E TROUTINE. LTPRioriny
eet : TASED ON
RELEASING | WO: i le DISTRIBUTED
srereneita te u —
| osccrer | ("egeeeaceeane |
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Na
oy Dee Seay

ware en

ho


Ute eee

H57° 124.9 Une Provieun Editions

MiG Led

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

mom 1 ts ONO
CussiTY To me NO,

x ate 10 ME WO
SECRET |
mon. TE aD G ett fo aRancH :
pistaor #10 —.
action. rio cory
REO . \
CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, G.I 2 A, A/D, A/INT

VR, FILE, ADDR, CA 2,
PAGE 2 IN 95965

FADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (15 NOVEMBER 1965)

UF6-7725
SCURCEs A MEMSER OF A GROWP Or CLIZAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE

TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTICN. THE GROUP HAS FROVIOED USEFUL

REPORTS SINCE 1961.

TROUTINE [Priori

| :
a I

nae [*" DISTRIBUTED:
ie ferctuerg rast AUTOWA

: a [ faa ara “Se

. REPRODUggON BY, OTHER THAN. ISSUING OFFICE ggg QHIBITED.
ae 7



a MPG AE

fear, 3000 an
e OVaan Fitled Ind

;

SECRET CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Loe i
Intelligence Information Cable ‘ i

counrar OCs

DATE OF DisTa

INFO.

PLACE &

BATE AC = a ar N 95965, -
souRCcE FIELD REPORT. NO.
AND ‘ 4

“APPRAISAL

oN 3 NOVEMEER 195) AN ADHERENT OF FULGENCIO, BATISTA ZALDIVAR,

PRESIDENT OF CUE» SAID THAT iATISTA 1S INTERESTED IN GAINING

ORGANIZATION THROUGH WHICH HE COULD INFLU~

Gi, OF CA CUBARL B14
LARGE NUMBEX OF CUBAN EMIGRES IN THE UNITED STATES.

HE DCES NOT WANT THE ORGANIZATION TO BECOME KNOWN AS A |

TIANO" ORGANIZATICN«
BATISTA'S-REPRESENTATIVES IN, THE UNITED STATES HAVE BEEN

INSTRUCTED TO ATTEMPT: 7G GAIN CONTROL OF THE REPRESENTACION CUBANA

EN EL EXILIO (RECE. CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EX fLE). SANTIAGO

“Thin enterial cortalas information affecting the National Defense of the Usited States withim the meaning of irs Espionage

Laws, Title 18, U.S.C, Seca, 793 and 794, the ‘ransmission of revelation of which in’ any manner to an uaautporad perwo is
prohisited by law. : pat sian
: eer
SECRET Beats

SIATCBia DIA ARMYIACSE NAVY AR XS SECDUF_ NSA NIC...MD USA OG ONE OCR OF. OD



Ten to

SECRET

SS SECRET (wpe Pu fo)
TLACE CONTROLS ANOVE TOP BLACK LINE AND BELO’

er. $cEaraseehauasntes 7

w'ROTTOM BLACK LINE

+ TDCs
natty? , a
2H gs

: sc |3
sb
AREY PERNAS AND ASMANDO GARCIA SIFREDO, DIRECTOR oF ATRIA, A

PRO-BATISTA NOWSFAPER, HAVE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH ERNESTOVFREYRE

ARONA, LEADER CF St)

3. (SouRCE

£, FOR THIS PURPOSE.
COAMENT. -FREYRE HAS FOR SOME TIME BEEN MAKING AN

EFFORT .TO RALLY EMIGRE- SUPPORT FOR RECE, AND SINCE MID-SUMMER 1965

HAS BEEN ACTIV

ELY WORKING. TO GAIN THE SUPPORT OF THE VARIOUS EMIGRE

-PROFESSIONAL_ ORGANIZATIONS AND TO REACH AN AGREEMENT WITH ALL

RIGHTIST GROUP

HAVE SEEN FREY

SECRET -

5 ANO WITH FOLLOWERS OF BATISTA. REY AND GARCIA
3£"$ CONTACTS WITH THE PRO-BATISTA GROUP. . FREYRE

m5 GARCIA IN ORDER THAT THE NEWSPAPER PATRIA
EDITORIALS FOR THE NEED TO SUPPORT

REPRESENT ALL EMIGRES.)

CINCSO; CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF

END OF: MESSAGE

