# 104-10422-10077

## Page 1

104-10422-10077

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

Tit.

TO

/ DIRECTOR

3

ROUTING

4

5

61

GS COPY

FROM

• LONDON

ACTION, C/WE Z (WE NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED NICORNS OR YOY SZANG)

INFO

• DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CA,Z, CLAd GlId irRaction 15

_authorized: De SENSITIZE

-19011

SECRET 2312327

PRIORITY DIR OITE LOND 6038

Signed:

Hartone

23 Nev 63 IN 6 7 0 61

R. 0. #1 - Unit 61 R$A

Note:

If destruction, cite

1

reagons and coordinate 1

do DIR 84608 ALERT PUT TO SMOTH, JAGUARA

AND JIC. SMOTH ALERTING

FIELD STATIONS.

20. EXPRESSIONS OF SORROW AND SYMPATHY RECEIVED FROM TOP COMMAND

BOTH JAGUAR AND SMÖTH AS WELL AS WORKING LEVEL. EFFECT IN UOKO.

IS ONE OF PROFOUND

SHOCK AND PUBLIC REACTION HERE SIMILAR TO DEATH

FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT.

2

•30 DUE TO BACKGROUND MAN CHARGED WITH ASSASSINATION, JAGUAR.

REPORTED MORNING 23 NOV FOLLOWING DUE SOME SIMILAR PHONE CALLS OF

STRANGELY COINCIDENTAL NATURE PERSONS RECEIVED IN THIS COUNTRY OVER

2

PAST YEAR, PARTICULARLY IN CONNECTION WITH DR WARD CASE. JAGUAR

REPORTED THAT AT 1805 GMT 22 NOV AN ANONYMOUS CALL WAS MADE IN

CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND TO THE SENIOR REPORTER OF THE CAMBRIDGE NEWS

RPT CAMBRIDGE NEWS. THE CALLER SAID ONLY THAT THE REPORTER SHOULD

CALL THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN LONDON FOR SOME BIG NEWS AND THEN

RANG OFF. LAST NIGHT AFTER WORD OF THE PRESIDENT'S DEATH WAS

E/S 2IMPDET CL BY 0 12.208

Review on

APR

1976

CONDUCTED ON 6 AER 1978

Document Number

RECEIVED THE REPORTER INFORMED THE CAMBRIDGE POLICE OF THE ABOVE

CALL AND THE POLICE INFORMED

LAGUAR: IMPORTANT THING IS THAI CALL

201-289248

WAS MADE, ACCORDING JAGUAR CALCULATIONS, AÑOUI IVENTY FIVE MINUTES

2370U63

D: 2010-5-4-1

SECRET

GROUP i

insludad team apromos

dougrading ond

declarif.raio

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFICE IS DOMHIDITER

Al.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Number

40

For storile copy of this docuient.

IN 67061

_ PAGE 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BEFORE PRESIDENT WAS SHOTO CAMBRIDGE REPORTER MAD NEVER RECEIVED

CALL OF THIS KIND BEFORE AND JAGUAR SAY HE IS KNOWN TO THEM AS SOUND

2

AND LOYAL PERSON WITH NO SECURITY RECORD. JAGUAR WANTED ABOVE

REPORTED PARTICULARLY IN VIEW REPORTED SOV BACKGROUND OSWALD.

DEPENDING ON CIRCUMSTANCES, HQS MAY WISH PASS ABOVE TO ODENVY AS

JAGUAR COULD NOT REACH ODENVY REP THIS MORNINGO JAGUAR STAND READY

ASSIST IN ANY WAY POSSIBLE ON INVESTIGATIONS HERE.

SECRET

C/S Comment: * Advised that the tragic death of Pressident Kennedy requires toas

a sharp eye be kept for any unusual intelligence developments.

1595631

for;

??÷:

14?aa:

'"-

2.AR6

---

