# 104-10072-10289

## Page 1

1104-10072-10289

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back.

Detach back flap

and lorward ta RID.

2.

Destroy tront cover sheet,

?unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il tile no, and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPHOPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

SAS/ ESC

3...

SA/MON FI

6. 15

ten.

SAS/ 30/ HH

117/50/213

12.

13.

14.

15

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMEO

610a

thet

DATE

ROOM

NO

RECEIVED

FONWAXERO

Anil 64

ANTO TeR 1051

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

ARC

Cary Detached ...

11il5ie.=

QUAp 61 - 1.01

3t13;

224ml 671

617/3/64

03 caul B

MICROFILMED

APK 9 1964

DOC. MICRO. SER.

Has they down

let chel tens

clears on ashed WAVE for

ABSTRACT

INDEX

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER PRIMARY CODEI

LooM n 406

UFGA

14781

7 арг /964

SECRET

D...

1

ZINV

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MIEROFILMED

AFRy 156.+

DUE MICRO- TER.

PRO.

POSED

XX

PROCESSINL

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEAOQUARTERS DESA

CAN JUOGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

BE KUR LIE

PLISHED

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL

701-746416

Special Activities Report on IMWAVE's Relationship with

AMCARBON -1

•QUIRED. REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED:

REFERENCES

Paragraph 10

A .

B.

WAVE 8981, dated 24 September 1962

WAVE 9169

dated

28 September 1962

C.

WAVE 9343, dated 2 October 1962

DIR 40975

dated 6 October 1962

E. UFGA 1441%, dated 4 March 1964

INTRODUCTION.

In Reference E, JMWAVE forwarded a review

of the nature of its relationship with

AMCARBON-2.

This review

indicates that the relationship with AMCARBON-2 evolved from that

action which was taken in September 1962 to insure that a security

breach would not occur as a result of an investigation which was

being carried out by the Identity 1 relative to the fact that the

establishment of the Identity 2 was being kept from the YOBELT

South Campus as a result of security restrictions which were in some

way related to JDUSK.

the relationship with AMCARBON-2

stemmed from the remedial action which had been taken in a crisis

situation

the establishment of a working relationship with the

Identity '3 was an, objective which

JMWAVE had always hoped to obtain.

As a matter of façt,

in Reference A, the recommendation was made

that JMWAVE be given approvalto contact the major South Florida

media in an attempt to work out a relationship with these news

media which would insure that they did not turn the publicity

spotlight on those KUBARK activities in South Florida which might

come to their attention.

when a relationship was established

with AMCARBON-2, it was

carefully cultivated in order that MYAVE

might be ableto use this contact at the Identity 3 as a means of

achieving the objective of having a relationship with the Identity 3,

which would simultaneously insure the security of JMWAVE's operations,

and give JMWAVE an outlet into the press which could be used

surfacing certain select propaganda items. In the period October to

usc cite'd in RID/AN

- Five Newspaper Clippings

B - Identities

Distribution:

3 - Chief, SAs, W/atts.

1 CROSS REFERENCE 1O

201-746416

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

19 March 64APR 2

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

19CA

UFGA-14781

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-

d0:1 :

CLASSIFICATION

LiLiSECRET

AMCARBON L'S JOURNALISTIC CAREER.

Identity 3.

Then in July or August 1962,

AMCARBON-1 was made

the Identity 1.

This assignment was considered to be a significant

9933

la

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGINO.

2.

CONTINJED

443.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA -14781

lecember 1962, all of JMWAVE's business with the Identity 3

as handled via AMCARBON -2°

In mid-December

1962,

ade the suggestion that he introduce REUTEMAN to

n order that there be a backup contact in the event that

MCARBON-2 were out of town or unavailable at such times as

IEUTEMAN might require assistance from the Identity

lotel columbusg

Miami, Florida,

at which AMCARBON-2 introduced

iMCARBON-1 to REUTENAN.

As a result of this initial meeting on

12 December 1962, an operational relationship has developed with

IMCARBON-1, and it is believed that this rolationship contributes

to the fulfillment of the over-all JMWAVE mission®

In view of

a special activities report is being submitted to cover the

nature of JMWAVE's relationship with

AMCARBON-1 during the

period December 1962 to March 1964.

FRAME OF REFERENCE FOR JMWAVE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH AMCARBON -1

When AMCARBON-2 introduced AMCARBON-1 to RNUTEMAN,

AMCARBON -2

reviewed the ground rules under which he had been

This review was conducted for AMCARBON-1's

benefit, in order that he might clearly understand the frame of

reference which should prevail in his relaiionships with REUTEMAN.

In this review,

AMCARBON-2 pointed out thai it was the policy

of the Identity 3 that it would take no action which would

purposely, embarrass KUBARK or its South Florida operations.

in South

a resultaglorida dis come

if any embarrassing items relative to KUBARK's operations

to the attention of the Identity 3, this

material would be brought to REUTEMAN's imnediate attention®

AMCARBON-2 made it clear to AMCARBON-l that such items should be

discussed with REUTEMAN in a frank manner.

In addition, AMCARBON-2

made the point that:

after an item was discussed, AMCARBON-1

should follow REUTENAN's guidance relative to how any particularly

a podentially embarrassing item to ReElAYs attention and

if AMCARBON-1 brought

remedial action on the matter was not taked by REUTENAN within

a reasonable period of time.

the Identity 3 would feel free

to expose any ineptness on KUBARK's part.

AMCARBON-2 pointed

out that in return for this cooperation

from the Identity 3,

REUTEMAN had agreed that he would be available

for contact by

telephone or periodic personal meetings at which

AMCARBON -1

and ANCARBON-2 could discuss broad trends and developments in

Latin American affairs.

AMCARBON-2 advised AMCARBON-] that this

arrangement did not mean that AMCARBON-1 could expect to obtain

any classified information from REUTEMAN.

The point was also

made that AMCARBON-L should not press for the obtaining of

classified information, but he should be alert to steering tips

which REUTEMAN

might furnish him on fast-breaking news stories.

AMCARION-1 indicated that he understood the frame of

reference

which had been

outlined by AMCARBON-L*

This frame of reference

has prevailed throughout JMWAVE's relationship with AMCARBON-1

during the period December 1962 to March 1964.

AMCARBON-1'S JOURNALISTIC CAREER.

ANCARBON-1 originally

started to work for

the Identity 3 in 195% on the City

and subsequently advanced from this assignment to

assignment

entailed covering major political developments

Florida.

At a later date, AMCARBON-1 became a feature writer for the

Identity 3.

Then in July or August 1962,

AMCARBON-1 was made:

the Identity € This assignment was considered to be a significant

•3a

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

xX

CONTINUED

PÄSE NO.

2.

4149

---

## Page 4

14-00000

•CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA -11781

promotion for AMCARBON-1

and it retlected confidence in him by

the Identity 3 management.

AMCARBON-1 is by no means an expert

on Latin Amelica, but he is developing his knowledge on the area

and, at the roment, he gives every

Indication of wanting

to be a

long-term Laüin American specialist.

QDELF has been

questioned

about AMCARBON-1, and he has indicated that AMCARBON-1 is regarded

in the journalistic trade as an extremely likeable fellow who has

a keen mind but who lacks experience in

on Latin American

affairs.

It is QDELF's opinion that given

an appropriate lapse

of time, AMCARBON-1 will develop into one of the leading Latin

American specialists in U.S. journalistic circles.

AMCARBON -1

has a working command of Spanish, and he is constantly attempting

to improve his language fluency.

It is REUTEMAN'S

opinion that

AMCARBON-1 has developed rapidly as a Latin American specialist,

and he will continue to grow in this field.

contact

who should be developed and harnessed for exploitation, bearing

in mind that he does have long-term potential.

AMCARBON-I'S CONTACTS AND SOURCES.

In keeping with the

traditional pattern of source protection which

newspapermen, intelligence officers and law enforcement officers,

AMCARBON-1 attempts to guard the true identity of all of his

sources.

Sources to Reema, order that meaninet emp

to REUTEMAN, in order

could be made of that information which AMCARBON-1 had

passed to

As i result of these occasional witting identifications

of his sourcus,

as a result of general conversations with

AMCARBON -1

the followins persons:

a.

Luis FERNANDEZ Rocha (201-316766), secretary goneral

of the DRE.

bo

ManolO FRAY Rivero (201-239298), chief of JURE.

Carlos

*ODD y Lobo (201-264141) of the defunct

Havana

Times.*

d.

AMBIDDY-1 (201-267437)

e.

Aureliano

#SANCHEZ Arango (201-019245), leader of the AAM.

Edmund LEAHY of the Washington News Bureau.

AMCARBON-1

regards this source as being particularly

interesting

in view

of

the fact that LEAHY's daughter is a secretary in the office o

Attorney General Robert KENNEDY.

Frank

*FIORINI (201-242256), free-lance pilot and l

adventurer.

Eduardo

*SUAREZ Riva, public relutions man for the MRR.

Luis

EMuNoz Marin, governor of Puexto RICO.

j.

P#BOSCH Gavino (201-103272), former president of

the

Dominican Republic.

Charles KEELY of the Copley Wire Service.

WOLSKY Kraisler (201-352252)

an employee of

AMCARBON-1 is

well aware of the fact that VOLSK!

stringer for Tad

SZULC of the New York Times,

but this

does not deter

AMCARBON-1 from attempting to exploit VOLSKY as a

source of intormation.

FORM

5-60

53a

(40)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO.

3,

CONTINUED

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

•:a cat =

SECRET

UFGA-14781

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

On occasion,

AMCARBON-1 is used

to carry

out certain operational

support tasks.

instances,

AMCARBON-1 makes his inquiries or carries

out the required action

within the context of his normal journalistic activities.

use of AMCARBON-1 for operational support tasks enables JMWAVE to

harness the investigative facilities of the Identity 3.

examples of how AMCARBON-1 has been used in operational support

tasks are outlined below:

Andrew ORDONO Camps.

DOB 30 September 1914,

In March 1963

+98 201-356702

• *ORDONO

Gibara, Cuba, A 12 837

in Miami and was given routine CAC processing.

The details of this

processing

are contained in MIAM-00$5, dated 12 March

being released by CAC, ORDONO was interviewed by the Identity 3

a sensational story was developed.

In view of this story,

JMWAVE

tried to locate ORDONO for debriefing.

This effort was not productive,

thus AMCARBON-1 was asked to locate ORDONO.

AMCARBON-1 did locate

ORDONO in Houston, Texas.

See WAVE-6307, dated 25 March 1963, 10x

details.

Discrediting Carlos BANDIN of the MRR Splinter Group.

In UFGW-2555, dated 13 September 1963,

Headquarters suggested that

JMWAVE might

be able to discredit Carlos BANDIN Cruz (201-309611)

of the MRR splinter group as a result of BANDIN's overinflated

relative to his faction invading Cuba.

Headquarters' interest in

discrediting BANDIN was also stimulated by the fact that BANDIN's

irresponsible publicity stunts were causing problems for AMBIDDY-1.

As a result of Headquarters' interest in

REUTEMAN had

a luncheon session with AMCARBON-1 on 24 September 1963,

AMCARBON -1 was advised that the BANDIN faction

of the MRR was

than accurate in its claims relative to its activities in Cuba.

In view of this, REUTEMAN suggested that the

Identity 3 might

to soft peddle any future war communiques which the BANDIN

might release.

AMCARBON-1 stated that, in view of REUTEMAN's

comments,

the-Identity 3 would not only soft peddle,

but would

ignore the BANDIN faction in the future.

Once BANDIN was discredited

with AMCARBON-1, the word was soon leaked by AMCARBON-1 to other

newspapermen that BANDIN was not a reliable

As a result

this action, the BANDIN group his received minimal media coverage

in South Florida since September 1963.

OPERATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.

In the period February

to February 1964,

AMCARBON-I has furnished JMWAVE with operational

intelligence as outlined below:

In WAVE 4836, dated 21 February 1963, AMCARBON-1

reported that AMBEND-1 was back in Miami and was

the object of

great deal of press interest in view of AMBEND-l's release from

a Havana prison.

AMCARBON-1 also indicated that AMBEND-1 would

probably be a knowledgeable source on the current activities of the

UR in Cuba.

This operational intelligence was most helpful

terms of keeping JMWAVE informed on AMBEND-l's

movements

Subsequent

developments revealed that AMCARBCN-1 could not contact AMBEND-1,

and thus AMBEND-l's return to

the United States

did not cause the

publicity

stir that was initially anticipated.

In WAVE 6176,

dated 22 March 1963, AMCARBON-1

reported

that the Identity 3 was

attempting to research a

feature article on the Bay of Pigs invasion.

The intent

article was to furnish a recapitulation of the entire tactical

situation.

In this connection, ANCARBON-1 pointed out that he was

FORM

5-60

(40)

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

4.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-14781

thinking about exposing the role of Miami attorney Alex E.

VACARLSON,

residing 145 Curtiss Parkway,

Miami Springs,

Bay of Pigs operation.

ANCARBON-1 stated

that, if CARLSON were

Identity 3 would

•of any current interest to REUTEREUTEMAN advisod AMCARBON-I that

soft peddle the CARLSON angle.

he had no interest in CARLSON but knew of him and was of the

opinion that CARLSON was a sound and honest attorney.

of this operational intelligence enabled JMWAVE to brief CARLSON

on the Identity 3's over-all interest in the role that. CARLSON had

played in the Bay of Pigs invasion.

in turn,

enabled CARLSON to more adequately prepare himself

This briefing' for a meeting

with AMCARBON-1.

While AMCARBON-1 did attempt to pursue this

Bay of Pigs story, he never did put anything

was overtaken by other developments before AMCARBON-1 could finish

his research.

AMCARBON-1 advised

JAWAVE that MY WAr PaRtSER, an associate editor for the

Saturday Evening Post, was in Miami during July 1963 attempting

to research a story regarding the possibility that strategic

missiles were hidden in Cuban caves.

This information enabled

JMWAVE to keep Headquarters informed on sensational-type articles

which might be appearing relative to Soviet missiles in Cuba.

d.. In WAVE 4701, dated 20 September 1963, AMCARBON-1

gave JMWAVE

his resume of

the discussions which he

had with

AMBIDDY-] at the Miami

Playboy Club on 19

information was useful

in obtaining an

September 1963°AMBIDDY-1

insight into what

was telling the press.

dated 10 October 1963,

AMCARBON -1

reported on a n WAVE 5661 that he had had on 10 October 1963 with

MBIDDY l's public relations man.

This operational intelligence

vas useful in terms of keeping KUBARK advised as to what AMBIDDY-l's

representatives were

telling the outside world about their

operational activities.

In WAVE 6910, dated 31 October 1963, AMCARBON-1

informed JMWAVE about the

flood of telephone calls which were

received at the Identity 3 relative to so-called KUBARK

vessels which were located in South Florida waters.

information alerted JMWAVE to the fact that press scrutiny was

be directed toward the Identity 5.

Armed with this warn-

JMWAVE was able to take action which

mininized the publicity

repercussions from a renewed

press interest in the Identity 5.

In WAVE 7671,

dated 16 November 1963, AMCARBON -1

reported to JiWAVE the fact that he had received

Peru which contained

interesting operational lead to one

This lead was examined by JMWAVE,

Headquarters and the Lima

Carlos MONTALVANO in Puno station.

This examination revealed

that the letter was written by a crackpot; thus!

real operational potential in this lead.

underscore

the fact that AMCARBON-1 is

willing to bring potentially significant

operational leads to IMWAVE's attention.

In WAVE 1614, dated 6 February 1904, AMCARBON-1

advised JMWAVE that he had received numerous telephone calls

indicating that Armando Andres GUIROLA Forte, who had defected

from a Cuban fishing vessel might be an individual who had previously

seen in Miami during November or December 1963.

At the same

AMCARBON-1 pointed out that he was suspicious

and thought

time, these telephone calls indicated that GUIROLA was cot a bona

fide defector,

but was either a GOC agent or a KUBARK

was being used as a means of creating an incident which antid

embarrass the GOC, as a result of their fishing boats penetrating

50O, 530 UBE PREVIOUS EDIT.ON.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

5.

saf.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-14781

United States territorial waters. REUTENAN advised AMCARBON-1

that KUBARs had played no role in mounting a provocation operation

against the GOC.

REUTEMAN pointed out that

1t was highly unlikely that GUIROLA was a GOC agent.

of this conversation, arrangements

were made for JMWAVE to check

out certain aspects of the GUIROL! story.

AMCARBON -1 was prevailed upon not to write a story which might

lead the public to speculate on wether GUIROLA was an agent or a

plant in a propaganda play designed to embarrass the GOC.

7. PHOPAGANDA OUTLET.

AMCA:BON-1 has been used successfully,

during the period covered by this report,

as a propaganda outlet

through which items of interest to KUBARK

could be surfaced in

the free world press.

Examples of how AMCARBON-1 has been harnessed

in this field are outlined below:

AMCRAB-1• The AMCRAß-1 defection story originally

surfaced ir the miami area on 13 October 1963 via the Diario de

las Americas, which played up an API release from Montevideo.

The API Mortevideo

story highlighled AMCRAB-I's information

relative tc GOC activities in Uruguay.

The story in the Diario

de las Americas had an extremely jimited impact on Spanish readers

in the Miani area.

As a result, it was decided to du a series

of feature stories on AMCRAB-1 pointing up the fact that AMCRAB-1

was typical of the veterans of

the: Granna expedition;

who felt

they had been betrayed by CASTRO and had been relegated to positions

of obscurity once the revolution had put CASTRO in

AMCARBON -

was briefed in detail on the AMCR/B-1 story,

and he vas

given an

opportunity to debrief AMCRAB-1 urder controlled conditions in a

JMWAVE safehouse.

After completirg his debriefing,

AMCARBON -1

wrote a series of feature articles on AMCRAB-1.

The first article

in the series received front page headline play.

The series of

articles on AMCRAB-1 were well

written,

and they. provided an

excellent peg for JMWAVE to mount a replay operation via other

propaganda assets.

AMCARBON-l's story on AMCRAB-1 was picked up

by UPI, API and others,

and it was played throughout Latin America.

The details of this surfacing can be

14 October 1963; WAVE 6092, dated 19 October 1963; and,

WAVE 6174,

dated 21 October 1963.

Charles GRIFFIN

INWAVE learned that when Mr.

Charles carTiNY sons went to dub

On 26 February 1964,

to reclaim the hijacked shrimp boat, JOHNNY REB, they found that

select items were missing from the boat when it was turned over

to them.

It was believed that this information would make a good

human interest story which JMWAVE assets could use to counter GOC

propaganda claims that United States officials had stolen items

from the Cusan fishing boats which had violated United States

territorial waters.

In view of this opinion, a steering tip was

AMCARBON-1 to have the Identity 3 representative in

Key West interview Mr. GRIFFIN.

This interview was carried out,

and an article outlining the points which were of interest to

JMWAVE was published in the 27 February 1964 edition of the

Identity 3.

LAYC Story. The March 1964 LAYC meeting in Santiago,

Chile, was

not receiving appropriate coverage

newspapers; as a result, REUTENAN contacted AMCARBON-1 on 5 March

surgested that

the LAYC meeting was a story

hould pursue.

AMCARBON-1 was grateful for this steeling

tip, and

he assigned the

task of preparing the story on the LAYC

to one of the members of his staff.

A story on the LAYC was

subsequently published in the 6 March 1964 edition of the Identity 3.

(COMMENT:

Copies of the articles

cited in subparagraphs a through

c above

are attached for Headquarters information.)

FORM

8-60

(40)

53c

URE PREVIOUE ELITION

CLASSIFICATIO

SECRE 'T

xx

PAGE NO.

6.

continuan

---

## Page 8

14-00000

LISTAIN

POSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

Attempts have been made to

disseminable positive Intelligence from AMCARBON→ during

the period covered by this report.

This attempt has been generaly

unsuccessful,

in that AMCARBON-1 does not have a great number

contacts in Latin America who would give him access

intelligence appreciably in advance of the information appearing

in the overt press.

as a result, AMCARBON- is usually not aware of in

inside developments in any Latin

American country; consequently,

he is not a worthwhile source of positive intelligence.

matter of fact, AMCARBON-1 is less valuable as a source of positive

intelligence than most journalists.

This is attributable solely

to his lack of long-standing contacts in the Latin American political

It is believed that AMCARBON-1 will ultimately overcome

this shortcoming; thus,

we will continue to attempt to harness him for

the collection of positive intelligence.

COMMENT.

In the period covered by this report, AMCARBON-1

Found to be a straight-forward individual who

cooperative and who understands the need for security.

relationship also indicates that AMCARBON-1 is an accurate reporter

of that infornation which he passes to KUBARK.

In view of this,

IMWAVE plans to continue to harness AMCARBON-1 in the same manner

that he has been used in the past.

It is believed that our rela-

tionship with AMCARBON-1 enhances

our ability

to conduct our

this relation-

operational mission in a secure manner that audAvi might have ditti-

ship tends to minimize the possibility

culties with the media outlets

the South Florida area.

result of our continuing relationship

with AMCARBON-1, a special

activities report will be forwarded at appropriate intervals.

It is requested that a 201 number be assigned AMCARBON-1

and that JMWAVE be advised of the number.

END OF DISPATCH.

ROOM 590 UGE PREVIOUSEOrION.

CLASSIFiCATION

SECRET

201-74646

I CONTINUED

7.

1...

---

## Page 9

14-00000

S-B

THE MILIN HERALD

Yriday, Nurch 6. 1068

Lain Youth Group in Chile

Organized by a Cuban Red

Santiago "i consideration of

BY DON BOHNING'

Or our Lalds Aenapia Biall

small,

but(signlfic.inz

Communist dominated,

Mous

Analysis

numerous fetitions."

Sirce dis Leception,

Cuban

exile organicalions in Sliant

Cuban-inspired

have

waged

hented

Latin youth

group

convenes Monday In

January.

1963,

attended only by

Cuban

propiganda campalin against

Santago, Chile.

preparalory

mecting for

the

youth represcntatives.

Theme

the Congress.

fiz-

for the Congress was changed

A letter froan a top Soviet

About 400

representatives

Second Congress nearly

of

Latin

youll

offielal

American

youth

aled when the Cuban delcga-

: 10

read "For the Liberation

10

Aldo

ton was detained In Mexico

of

Latin

America"

and

it

Alvarez, leader of the Cuban

organizatlons,

for

the

most

Preparation

took

part Communist oriented, are

on its way to Santiago, The

expected to attend the second

Panamanian

representative

imperialist" lone.

more

"ant!-

Navional

Comittee for the

Congress,

was reproäiced and circulal-

Latin American

Youth

Con-

flew froin Santiago to Mexico.

10

confer with

the

Cubans,

Nothing

more way

heard •

ed

by

exiles. ' In - 16

gress.

then returned to Chile and

untll mid-summor with little

specitic irstructions for

0t-

It has an interosting

resumed.

The

Interost apparently being

ganiorg

the

the

Congress

are

mecting

anatomy.

And

whother

by

July date was set, an agenda:

genoratod among Latin youth

outlized

Exile graups have promisid

dosign

or accilont, both ils

agreed

on

and

the

theme

Group The Congress tyas sô-

siming and locale have pulle

"Fight

of

the

Young

for sclieduled

Auguat

Ical sigolficance"

Peace" was adopted

Chile Is one of five Latin

countries

which

still

rela:..

"International":

In March, howeyer, anoinin, Aral didn't taho place.

and

to

send

representatives

Santiago when the Congress

*denounce the

'To salvage lost prestige, It

convenes

CommuIlse effor 10

was announced in late August

maintains • diplomatic

tions with Cuba. It also sa

meeting was held in Cuba,

preparallos.. the Conmess would be held in

braiswash the youth of Latin

America.*

considered the one most like-

1-04040630

ly to vote itself Communist.

Presidential elections will

be held in September, a leade, ad

contender

'is

Salvador

Allende,

candidate

Communist controled thei

Jar

Action

Front

(FRAP).

Allende lost by 35,000 votes i

In 1958 to outgoing president

Jorge Alessandri.

A, provinclal.

election

to

name a national deputy will

be

held

next weck, a day:

after

the

Youth

Congress

closes. Outcome of the elec- i

tion may provide an indica-:

MIAMI HERALD

6 March 1964

ton of which say the counc

try will go in September.

Relucipal organizor of thie

Youth

Congross 1$ & 35-10-10}

yoor old

Cuban

Communist :

namod

Joaquin

Martinez, A U.S. offlolal de

scribea.

him ap

"one of tho

brainles!"

of the

Castro

followvers.

Mas slepped in last fall!

when the Congress, originally

scheduled for

I July

of

1963,

faltered

Cuban

exile groups

clalm ho gets his Instructions

for

Congress

directly

from Moscow.

Mas, a former president of

Uio School of Soclal Sclence

at the Univerpity

o! Huvana

"and now vice president of the

UnIversity

Student

Federa-

tion,

arrived

in

Chile

in

Seplomber.

1s apolodds organesed thin

Internallonel

d'roparatloa

Conunliteo f05

tho

ConTest

J'alsonal preparation Erouys

liran to sprout up la

othor

Latin countries at lie sario

Unio.

Chilean auchorilles ordered

him expelled several Unics as

a "forcion agent" Each Umo

Conmunist and Soclallat

party

officials intervened in

his behalf.

Jas left Chllo Nov. 20 105

Brazil, Bolivia and Venezucla

where he conferred wich

ouier Communistleaders,

then went on to Prague and

Moscow.

reilined to

Santlogo

Doc. 26. He was niet at the

country.

This time Chilean

Interior minister Dr. Solero

del Ruo Intervened and Mas

come back.

i But for Mas, the Congress

may not have come off.

It Is an outgrowth of the

fIral Lallon Americon Youtts

Congress held In

Cubis

in

1000. It was there the Cuba

SI. Yankee no"

theme 1y as

is lipii..

•201-74666

1,11

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CONtINUATION OF

DISPATCH

- CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH BYMBOTANDII

Separate Cover At ac.

B to UFGA-14781

Identities

- one Miami News

29

2

3

1

5

- The Miami Herald do

TRAML PROCTIA

IP EDI

BOS MIGNO. SER.

116:9

on Aphil.

to UFGA 14181

1 51 201-74641

Enclita

CLASSIFICATION

ORM

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

CONTINUED

(40).

CS COPY

Y/R

---

