# 104-10075-10373

## Page 1

104-10075-10373

SECRET

Routine

GiRECTOR

3

c/SAS: 5

LEO, ADOP, RITAN DIREN, 0/Ó6 2, VR

0229127

CAT WAVE O395

TYRIC ATHENG PET COS COMME

TO GO. WAVE 7590 (ICIE€I)

C. WAVE 7793 (IN 1N64066)

WAVE THEN

(+N66001)

E, HAVE 7961 ('$ (64951)

F. WAVE 7964 (146 5864)

So HAVE R11O (1N6>aDO)

1671764

S. HAVE 8134 (1N 6>356)

S. WAVE 8198 (186>664)

LI HAVE 8262 (IN 69604)

1. PQL IS TRANSLATION OF REFS:

P.a.

7O. RECEIVED MESSAGE 34. RUBEN RECOMENDS JOSE

11511

PECAUSE HE WAS A SERGEANT IN THE OLD. ARMY AND NOME AT.

TO HANDLE DIFFERENT WEAPONS AND SOVE EXPLOSIVES. RAMON AND MAPIO MIL

-999.

TO!. UIS WHAT PICTURES DE MARIO YOU WANT. THE ONE THAT

DOTEADIOS RECOMMENOS ELA iNTELLIGENCE IS CRESTE

SECRET

20: 4-42

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ASSIFIEO

MESSAGE

iN 73724

B9 01E KO07: AT THE SCHOOE OF COMMERCES

I WiILL CONTACT RENE INRQUCH

itiar.

FSANC,

DOIMEADIOS SAYS IHAI CATAY RECOMENOS FOS INTELLAGENCE.

?."!""

"uES.

7lo. CONT INUAT JQN. MEDARDO

BORN IN HOL SUIN.

DUT GEER 19E7. LIVES LOS MOSCONES NEIHPORHOCD. SON

WOAYS IN TUE ASTIALT PLANT LOCSTEN IN THE

¡ME HOL GUIN MIL ITIA AIRPORT.

• 1P. RECEIVED MESSACE 35. WILL SEND 3I0 DATA ON PENE -EFORE

CONTACT #ITH MIM. ROBERT OI

MILL WORK IN THE ACTION CHLIA

Q.: "¡THE LOCATION OF THE HOUSE NEAREST THE FOINT, IT IS MORE IMAN

Pi AMREE MILOMETERS AWAYO THE POINT CAN BE REALMED BY A SECONDAP!

F: "FERE GRE NO PATROLS NOR OBSERVATION POSIS NEAR, THE NEARAOE OUR TN

W"PT 1D KILOMETERS TELL US WHEN YOU CAN HAVE A RE-SUPPLY OFERATION.

tettit

ERSH CARGADE DELECTIVES, DATA SENT RY MATL. TW NETT TRANCHTETTTA

WIL!. CEND SOME DETAILS DF OBJECTIVES CHOSEN.

D, 73.. PIDERAPHIC DATA ON RENa

BORN IN VIMOCI:

CTUO C MAM HSS. ÈMES T AIAN CANTAN ITO WHERE VETIL

!TRICE. IS A PAPERMAKER. SON OF ROBERTO AND MANUELA, MARRIEE TO

MAS

ONE DAUCHTEP NAMED ANAVELA DPT SNOW!,

15.69.

407 :091,

F.a

DOIMEADIOS TELLS FE TNAT RUBEN RECOMPEND ROBERTO

HE WAS SOAN IN-HOLGUIN, COMTINUIS.

CONT INUT TOi,

GON ON 2? APAIL 1932 ÷ LIVES AN

PÜTÜE 12O WORKS IN THE FLECTRIC PLEN OE DÃEiN. RaPiN inyittimnioni

AETHESE PEORLE IS NECESSARY.

ACUILAP NAS -ECOMMCADED TO G EO CMION GOIN TE PUERT:

---

## Page 3

14-00000

• CLASSIFIED MESSAGE•

IN 71/811

_ PAGE

TAOGR

RA" ON

NaTVE Or ravAin.

SOnN Zi RMT ÜI JUNE 195

RHr 1915. S0M 0F

MARPIED TO LINA

LLLO I" BATEY, CHAPAPRA REPARTO MIRAFAR, PUERTO PADRE.

WORKE FENALE

1U2UC

IHIS MAN CONIPIS LARGE NUMPER OF PSOPLE IN THE ZONE.

Ce 95.

RECEIVED MESSACE 36. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT RUDEN

"OS FUR ACTION ALFP.EDO

BORN IN MANZANIID. BORN

1N COTOBER 1916. SÓN OF

GOONS AS CHIEE СЕ ТНЕ

•OMi ROUiTRiSI NURNSRURS UE IME UURAS PUSLISAS (PUSLIC KORKS). LIVIS IN

PIOPL. FEPIA, 193. CONTINUES.

97. CONTINUATION. RUPEN AL SO RECOVMENDS LEONARDO

PORTI IN MOBUIN. SON OFL

BOR N

ON ?= AUGIST

1939, LIVES IN THE EXTENSION DE PERALTA 36, MARLEM SECTÍJN.

WORKS ON CARTE

EMIFO OE HIGHUAY TRANSPORTATIDN ÁGICTO I NERU FESOSA TELL UE IF VOU ÜN

HANE ALDHER CACHES VE ARE REDPUTT IEF ACTION PERSONKES IN HRODEN DARES.

SENT PEPORTS ON TADCETS ON IT MOVEWSER. CONTIMUATION.

I. 75. CONT INUATION. TELL YE WHAT OTHER TYPE OF INFORLATION

YOU "EED ON THE TANK PARK I REPORTED. I WILL PDER AGUILAR TO INVESI-

¡RATE PHO LIVES AT PUNTO TOPATEO THE EAPLOSIVE FATERIAL I UTLL ÜSE AS

SELEDED TAR CET S.

INE JTIOR NATEPILWIL DS PURIID, THE SUFPLILE IIL:

CITRIEG INTU TOUCK TE MIRTATIRIIA TU SAPLOSIVES VERE DEPOSITES

LETCI IN THE FARO DE GULET. GOOPDINATIS SEARDEO. MAP SHEET 6095 IV.

MTMAN!CTEIE M THT TW TA DDE DEBROTE TII EAIAT

I.-Feie

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

IN 71784

- PAGE

:?A MAP SHEET 497% IV IS SURROUNDED BY BARBED WIRE FENCE. ONLY

GUARD ARMED WITH A SOVIET PSH WEAPON. IT IS IN A SENTRY SUX MITH

A-MONE LOCATED IN FRONT OF THE AGUAS CLARAS AND UNAS MICHVATE JUNG: IDE

FE ARE SEVERAL ANTI-AIRCRAFT INSTALLED ON A HILL AT NORTH, NOT SEING A!

LET SOMIUS WHAT TYPF. THE AREA OF ALL THE CAMP IS APRONXIMATELY !

1PO KILOMETER, THE AREA OCCUPIED BY THE TANKS IS APOUT SONG METERS.

TONYC, SEEM TO BE T-SAS.

1. 82. RECEIVED MESSAGE 3E. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME LA: DASAY

WINGS FOR THE INTELLIGINCE CELL ABRANT

=: IN MATANZAS, SON OS

BORN ON 16 JET :919.

"LEE TO INES FERIA. HAS TWO CHILDREN, POEEPTO AND INES. THIS MANIE

"EF DE THE RURAL CORPS DURING IME PRIO GOVERNIENT. HE WAS THEM PRELATE

GNVEITIGATOS FOR SEARS AND OTHER COMMER CIAL AND BANKING FIRES. MAFID

"IT AT TRATION ONE IMESE PEOFLE IS NECESSARY.

L. SI, RECEIVED MESSAGE IT, CONTACT IN VICTORIA WOULD TO FENT.

IT PAMO. RENE HAS BEEN KNITO ME FOR SOME TEARS TROUSE TH

C FELIPE TRUE COLON, DELICiA FARTE MIG RINE SAS THESE

"ITTY CORPANY IN PUERTO PADRE.

IN VICTORIA RENE MORKS SITH LE.?."

LAYER• IN MICTORIA. TRYINGTO INVESTIGATE SCHOOLS ATTROED. "E

"A" SOLIDE SINE MONEY EXPENSES FE VERY MICH MERE.

? STATION CONVENT: PLS INDEX FR HAVE FILES UNDIES

"TE TRAI LON PICEIVDO FROM QUE COMPELL ALIMO PALMIT ::

"JUAN IT! CANNO SE DETERINE.".

---

