104-10186-10064 ae : : Genny %
: : ; \

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

: ‘Tots eaatertal comtatas informatica Atecusg the Katicoal Defense of tbe Catted States within (Se meee ef the Raplonage Lava, Te

” AA USC. Soca 7) and TH. tbe Uarmueta or fereiation of which i aay meanee to en Unauiburtend paren ts prohibited by INV.
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
countryCuba REPORT NO, CSCI-316/00728-65
suuect fnu JOA (aka “Jordan”) DATE DISTR. 16 February 1965

NO. PAGES: 1
REFERENCES. CS-311/00115-64

(page 9) RETURN TO CIA

8 July 1964:
DATE OF J 964 bite * Background Use Only
pace a Washington, D. C. : Do Not Reproduce
pate aca.December 1964 FIELD REPORT NOL

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE. ante

source. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence ~
Service uftil April 1964,

Headquarters Comments y

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees tuke no action on any..of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Fnu JOA, aka: “Jordan,” is the Peruvian desk officer 4n
the Seccion Sur (South American Section) of the Departamento de
Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Department - LN) of
the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI).

2. JOA, a Caucasian, was born between 1940 and 1945. He is
five feet six inches tall, weighs 140 pounds, and has a thin
build. JOA earns about $240.00 per month}

Headquarters Comment

2. The records of this Agency reveal no additional fdentifiable
information on JOA.

§
4 :
: SECRET RSS]
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Mreeynee
1 raektsy
‘state Toa, Ta Tear Tate Tse 1 SBX Tee Treat 2
REP" CINCLANT —CINGSO = TENS a

‘Pets. Feld duribution Indicated by - #7.)

;_TFGA 19083
--iLW6 Dec, 1964) i
SO PROJECT ( AMML

{AWE
roves wa7SA 8 q@, WE 1 (1), Cr 4, mIDT

19-5-1

FORM Oy nm antene penne On
