# 104-10180-10053

## Page 1

104-10180-10053

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Cans sensa

THE, CI

1374

19 Septembar 1983

SES BELOW

6% C

I.ET

PRITT

FEDERAL BOREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DEPARTHENT OF STATE (SECURITY)

DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

DEPARTHENT OF TIE ARMY: ATTENTICN: ACSI, SECURITY DIVISION

DEPARTMKNT OF THS NAVI: ATTENTION: ONI

DAPARTHENT OF TILE AIR FORCZ: ATTENTION: OSI ISFICTOR CEREM

SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

'1. ON 13 AUGUST 1888 A FAIRLY RELIABLE SCURCE REPORTSO 2:

HAD AFEN CONTACTED BY ALEXANDER L RORIE NNO INLICAILO HE

(PORKE) AND ELS FRIENDS, FRANK ANTEONY STURGES AND OSCAL: ELSTRE

MASCARO, "WERE ALL SET TO DO SOMETHING"; THES HAD AN MACRATE

OF UNDISCLOSED TYPE, AND NEEDED A BOAT. SOURCE SAID GORRE

BERNED TO DE BRARCHING FOR INDICATIOL AS TO WHETHER SCURCE

WOULD CIVE ANY MONETARY SUPPOET TO HIS ACTIVITIES.

8. OBI 18 AUGUST 1018, PORKS SHOED SOURCE A PICTURE OF A

GRUMAN BEARCAT AIRCRAFT ALLEGEDLY OWNED BY AN L'NIDENTIIIED

(BY PORKE) ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILE ETUDENT GRCUP VITH WIICA

RORXE CLAIMKO TO SE ASSOCIATED, RORBE STATED TO SLIDE:T

GROUP BAS ATTIMPING TO BUY A BOAT AND HAS FEINENC 3E 50300441

BECRET

---

## Page 2

PAG.

TB C

C08A.

8. ON DIACGUST 1963 FORS TULD SCORCH SI MIDINGI

TO DO WITH THE RECENT RAID AID SLELLNG OF LALINA LY TUE

DERECTO UO REVULICIONAMO ESTUDIANTLL bIC) LiNiNGs, ANO

THEY WERZ COING TO TANE ACTION AGALI LOON. ILLNE NAL E ALI!

DINTED FUR AN INDICATION AS TO WASTIÉA SOURCE ANGLE LINE AII

NONETARY SUPPORT TO HIS ACTIVITIE

A ON 8 SEPTENDER 1982 FORKE TOLD SOURCE WE LAD TILLEE 10A.

INCLUDING CUBAN AND AMERICAN CREWS AID AX ALICRAFI REJOY Li

RAIDS AGAINST CUBA.

TWENTY TWO THOLD DOLLARS T0 SUI LUdD AnD Anguild Ali

TAT A RID VAS ESLIC PLANNED ECR NEST I CEN TAFUL ECT

MAID ARE A PETROLEUS REFINERY AND MAVIGATIONAL BIOU CTEE

NORTH CCAST OF CUSA

5 ON 8 SEPTSMBER 1963 SOURCE IND US SUO RECENT: Y AST:

REPPEIANTATTVZ OF THIS ALSRICAN

- SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRIT

PAQI TALLE

FORKIGN POWER AND LIGET COMPANY, AND TEN

STATED THAT TRI COMPAYY HAD BEEN DAPRES

WERE CORDERING GIVING MONITARY ASSHICA!

CASTRO ACTION, SOUBCE SAID ER BEC

NEY TORE TIMES CORRESPONDEHT WHO

BOATS (PRESCRABLE IN MIAMI, FLOWDA)

RUAY PELLLIPS MAY HAVE SENT BOXIE TO TALL

POETE AND LICET COMPANY TO BEZE FTNANCI

B. ON 20 AUGUSI 1903 ANOTHRR FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED

TZAT BORKE HAD STATED THAT HE AND OTEER UNITED STATES CITIZENS

WERE WORKING CLOSELY WITH LAULLANO BATISTA FALTA OF THE

IZOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATICO CRISTIANO. SOUNCE SAID HORLE WAS ATTERIT-

INO TO GET ASSISTANCE FROM TES CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, OR

AT LAST THE SUPPORT OS THE AGENCY, TO PREVENT INTERFERS CE

FROM OTHER UNTKO STATES GOVERNATLT ELEMENT3 IN SL' ANTI-CASTRO

OPERATIONA,

(CONTINUED)

BBCR

---

## Page 4

SECRET

C= FOUR

TUAGES AILO LAURRADIO BATISTA PALLA

LATE

THIS AGE

STOLE CORRESPONDENCH LETHREN

FIRMARY TRACES OF THIS AGENCTS

ON ON RUBY PHILLIPS. AS ADI-

TONAL DI

1 AROVE SUEJECT IS RECKIVED BY

TEN AGENOT IT VILLE PHOMPILS FORWARDED TO ADDRESSEES. THS

AGENCY WILL APPRECIATE RECEIPT OF ANT INFORMATION DEVELOPED

BY ADDERATES ON TAL AROVE 8UBIBCT.

& TES ASOTE RITCENATION IS BEINO MADE AVAILABLE TO PHY

IMBIORATION AND NATURALIZATION BYEVICE, TO TEE BURLAU OF CUSTOLS,

AND TO TAS BURKAY OF NITARNATIONAL PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTUENT

OF COMMIECE.

INTO BAGED ON: Talphone call from Meheel J. P. Malone to Mi. Charlos

Mati and Colonel Majore yo

HAVE S0SO (DI 10150) 1600I 63 (SCUTCH: ANCLATTER-I)

C/TY#/PH

C/ITH/CI

CI/LLAISON

WILLIAM I HARVEY

C/TFT

&& CRET

---

