# 104-10145-10123

## Page 1

104-10145-10123

SECRET

INTERNAL USE ONLY

ADDENDUM TO JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Monday - 6 February 1978

nsca

1. (Confidential - RSG) LIAISON Kenneth Klein, House Select

Committee on Assassinations staff, visited C&R Staff to review the

Ortiz Ramirez fle.

2. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Mike Epstein, Senate Select

Committee on Intelligence staff, called to request that we notify

Larry Devlin, former Agency employee now living in the Congo, that

the House Select Committee on Assassinations had requested to review

his testimony before the Church Committee.

3. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Tom Moore,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who asked me questions

regarding the cables delivered on 3 February relating to the State/CIA

agreement on the role of the Ambassador. Moore asked me for the

releasing and authorizing level of the cables, and about part of one of

the cables which had been deleted from the copy provided the Committee.

I told Moore that the DCI had approved the first two cables, had initialed

one of the other two and we were confident that he was well aware of the

fourth cable. The section deleted was merely administrative instructions.

4. (Unclassified - DEM) LIAISON Called Bernard Fortman,

printer, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, to request an additional

page of the transcript of Mr. Frank Carlucci's confirmation hearing.

Fortman said he would send it as soon as possible. It had been

inadvertently left out of the copy previously provided us.

5. (Secret - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Dave Bushong,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staft, on the secure phone about

his investigation of narcotics trafficking by senior

government

officials. Bushong asked me to provide another copy of a cable previously

provided the Committee which could not be read in its entirety. He also

asked me for the references on this cable.

21330

2)50

SECRET

INTERNAL UGE ONIY

---

