# 104-10174-10149

## Page 1

104-10174-10149

11D MILN

Cried ul station, Hersco elty.

Ndira88-0F

Fri.

+69408:59438

881.86

LICILNE-T

STRAIN DO DISINIS

ACTION REQLIRUD: 3a0 below

As the Sention Case Offleer no doubt realtres, three of the persons

lissed as close assoclates. of Subject ara leltista so sore degree.

ebla my be adiantagecus aince LICHANI-l may Do in a positien

Information for ala ntudles for Lifurfand be my de more trusted dy left late

In she target groupe, Headquartera freaupes the Station will exercise caution

la directsar subject through the Lures.

LICIANI-1'= PO/Od 1s being awen-

ded so atipulare that the Station will not handle Subject direcely, Chat he

ahould not be made witting of KUMARK or ODYOKE Interest in dia activitles, nor

should sensitlve reguirements ba rerealed to him. This restriction can be

waived upon assurances by the Station that LICIWNT-l does sot share the pro

Communist and pro soviet.

anti-U.S. sympathies of the three friends In ques-

tion and that he can be adequately controlled.

Headquarters wishes to especially caution the Station regarding

JaINe GARCIA Terre's who was reported la HMM- 4426 of Auguet 1959 as being

In the pay of the soviet sabaany for his literary work for the El Sapectador

agasino, and for ila friadablp with Marla BlenA VAGUEL CODeS (NII 6486,

October 1960) who la a suspect Soviet Agent.

•1

END' OF DISPATCH

Distribution:

2 - Mexico City

INITIAL

'CROSS FLIERENCE TO

MASSOFICATIJY

S BCRET

37!- 331589

CHASE DESPAÍCHIO

28 SEP 1962

25 SEPT. 1962!

O SENATES STRIPOL AND MUMERA

1082-4-10929

201-331599

Transo

HU/SMEXICO C. Z. Bustos !

ord

COORDING

RA S

AC/Nexi

5940

106128 go ge

10a18

... -

=.

Let/3 nixi

DES LEVE

53 Pa: 915109000

calE

258502

8) '

03

DISPATCH

3RS

---

