# 104-10123-10404

## Page 1

104-10123-10404

McCORD, sames w.

SECRET

550-0256-67

13 DEC 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Management Staff/DD/S&T

SUBJECT

0l

: BYECOM Approvals for Office of Security

General Support Officers

1. On occasion of the required semi-annual review of holders

of compartmented clearances, the SSC proposed and the Director of

Security approved the concept that the majority of professional security

officers at the Headquarters level could effectively perform all

necessary security support in the BYE System within the limits of

a liberal interpretation of the access permitted by the BYECOM)

clearance as opposed to the individual project clearances.

2. Accordingly, the review of OS holders of compartmented

ol Clearances indicates that 37 officers listed below should be granted the

BYECOM)clearance. This will permit us to debrief them of 148

individual (BYEMAN)clearances. The Chief, Compartmented Information

Branch has been requested to mark the CIB control records so as to

alert the SC any time within the next year a request for certification

er coper to i met to insure that the con learne,

does not serve as a barrier in the discharge of general (BYEMAN)

security support duties.

01

3. It is suggested that you endorse this memorandum in

approval of the BYECOM)for all individuals listed. This action will

serve the CIB as the necessary DD/S&T (BYECOM)authorization and

eliminate the need for 37 individual Form 2018a's. ol

---

## Page 2

4. The list of OS personnel proposed for (BYECOM)

Identity

Clearances Now Held

.03

DUUU, Frederick F.

BUNN, Leland E.

P03

CARPENTIER, Patrick

CARRICO, Hobart C.

COLE, Thomas L.

PITCHETT, Kathyon A

GOTTSCHLING, Robert P.

GREENE, Ward K.

HART, Ramon R.

JONES, Edwal

KOTAPISH, WM. R.

KUH, Richard E.

MCCORD. lames

MCSHERRY, Curtis H.

MORETTI, John

MORONEY, Robert F.

NOONAN, Robert

PARR, Lawrence G.

PHALEN, Charles S.

133

ROYER, William A.

SHERIDAN, Arthur C.

103

SHORTLEY, Michael J.

SOLIE, Bruce L.

SWENDIMAN, Robert C.

J03

I, C, RH, HX, ZA

0,

I

0,

0,

0,

O,

I,

1,

1,

C, EP

C, HX, G, RH, EP

0,

C,. G, EP

C

0,

O,

I,

C, RH, G, EP

0, I,

• C, RH, FM

O, I,

C,. RH, EP, FM

O, I, C, RH, EP, FM

I, RH, HX, FM

0, I, C

•0,

I,

0,

I,

C

C, RH, HX, G, EP, DOR, QUI

0,

I

0,

, C, RH, HX

0,

0, I

0, I,

C

0, I

0, I, C, HX, EP

0, I

0, I, C, RH, HX

0,

I,

C, HX, G, EP, DOR, QUI

0, I, C, RH, FM

O, I,

0, 1, C

i. -

0,.

I, C, RH, HX

0, I, C

I

0, I, C

I

2

SEGRET

1/1v

---

## Page 3

TRUE. Ralb O.

0, I, C, RH, HX, EP, FM

I

O, I, C, RH, HX

A Pie Brat!

W. M. Knott

Chief, Special Security Center

APPROVED:

Fang M ph

12/15/67

Date

hief, SMS/DD/S&

I heartily agree with this proposal but there is one item

which I feel might be explored.

When I was in the Special Security

Center we occasionally called on the then Chief of Personnel

Security Division, Mr. Steven Kuhn, Mr. Leland E. Bunn, or Mr. Ward

K. Greene to conduct defensive briefings. In the course of con-

ducting such briefings, I feel that it is possible that they might

not be able to give meaningful answers to questions propounded by

the persons being briefed.

I would recommend that this matter be

discussed with Mr. Bunn, Mr. Greene, and Mr. Kotapish, successor

to Mr. Kuhn, prior to debriefing them of all operational access.

approvals and giving them BYECOMS.

01

Bunn. Greeney Kdapist have

nives bee called on dureno defensive bruefergo

to discuss chearances in sulestantice depth.

Further, the (Bye.com, would not preclude the y

from docussing such questions.

12/17/67

C/SMS/ DDS&T

SESHET

4/n0

---

