# 104-10213-10111

## Page 1

104-10213-10111

di

DISPATCH

Clued not slation, Irpucigalpa

BRUXISSITE, ACTINI

PNIA1T81810240198:.

NO MIMINE, MISJIDED

--

Clael of Stalion. Nexico

CHIY QUALIFIED CESK

CAN JUDGE 8N8DEXINS

TAOA

Deputy Chief, WIl/SA NUISATOR

ACROPLA

SUPACT Operational TYPIC/ &2 AMMUG-I

Mexical lan: Radio Operator in Touch suth Cu

ACHON REQUIRED - ELFEFENCES

MUTA-3782, 17 June 1964

CRONSTORICAL HEVIEN PROGEAM

For Your Information

1. The following information was obtained from AMMUG-I when

questioned concerning his knowledge of songs used in radio communication::

in connection with reference:

ARES. KINALDY

When fore

sate, died "AUGUSTO" personally came to the liational

Liberation Building and held a meeting with the officers of that section. Ic

instructed those individuals who maintained communications with organiza-

Lions of their sespective countries, as well as with some agent, to prepare

in system of communication using some song, lecture, conmercial, etc.,

which could le transmitted by ladio Havana, Cuba, and could be used to send

easily understood ciphered messages.

U. ANMUG-1 believes that Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo chusc

the musical recording of "Las Seis Lindas Cubanas" (Six Beautiful Cubans),

or something similar.

He believes this sung was written in the 1920's hy

Antonio Maria ROMEU, who leads his own orchestra; however, the sung

was made popular by the "ARAGON' orchestra during the Cha Cha Cha ern."

(Comment: FOMEU is approximately 80 years old and undoubtedly is identical

with the individual referred to as Antonio Maria RONERO in reference.)

2.

"AUCUSTO" or "Agusto" was previously identified by AMMUG- 1 a

Deputy Chief of the DGI, and is probably identical with Carlos Sixto CILMIN

Soler, Deputy to Manuel PINEIRO, Chief of the DGI.

3. It is not known whether there is any connection between the song

tilles mentioned in reference as "tres lindas Cubanas" and the AMMUG-1

CONTINUED

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

MHT W-1721

DATE

ASSIFICATION

SECRET

HOS FILE NUMER

200-5-38

4555

CAJE

CI

L

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Indecatara

F- File.

1 - WH: SA, ESEC

I - WH/SA/CI Chrono

I - FI/D/CSB

1-1'4/8

WH/SA/Ci:

PANCE SYMBOL

C/ WH/ SA

C/ WH/2

W11723

HID/CSB

& in draft

---

## Page 2

Ar

1j-69/

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

HIT W- 1721

l'age 2

ASSET

Information reported in paragraph 1, b above, Howeves, the similarity

of the titles is obvious, and the tentative identification of the composer

lends additional credence to the Station's suspicions regarding the unusual

nature of the intercepted conversation. Headquaters would appreclate

receiving any further information which to may be able to develop

on other conversations between "Allonso" and his Cuban counterpart,.

aS

well as any comments or information which Mexico City may be able to

provide on the personalities mentioned in reference.

Distributlon:

3 - COS, Tegu

2 - COS, Mexi

lote: There is a strong possibility that the songs referred to in paragrapi

b and 3 are the same since the Spanish words T'res (three) and seis (sis

are often confused when heard by non-Spanish speakers.

de

---

