104-10181-10037,

Chief, Domestic Collection bivision (DIRECT)

weputy Chie? of Operations (Ed watts) w/attach,

Office of ceneral counzel (John Creaney) w/attach,
Chief, Dallas Field officd

(lev Orloans Resident office) :

Request for Cailance in Respomiing to Newa Media Inquiries

1. As is apparent in the attached copy of a ‘lew Orleans maga-
zine article, fomser District Attorney Jim Garrisoa and his Kenedy
assassination theories are enjoying a revival of interest by loeal
news media. It ig possible that the New Orleans B.0. may be con
tected by nevenen for coments on Garrison's charges, especially in

“Light of the recent disclosures of facts which were not nate avalle

able to the-Warren Commission. In the absence of nore specific
Readquarters ‘guidance, we intend to respond to any mich inquiries
by saying that sr. Garrison's charges of CIA involvasent in the
Kennedy asasasination vere felse when he first mde thea in 1966,
and they are still absurd today, and vé prefer not to coment
further. You say be able to suggest a better response than that,
and if so we hope you vill share your thoughts with us,

2. We are saevhat care concerned ebout bow we should respond

to any direct questions concerning the Agency's relationship with

~Clay Rev, who as you know vas unsuccessfully prosecuted by Garrison
for conspiring to asaassinate Preaident Kemedy. Shaw, vboa Garrison
refers to aa a CIA employee and who dict about two yeara ago, vas an
active contact of unter Leake's during the period 194801955, pre=
sunably a 4 routine source of FPI. Despite the 32 same-aid con-
tacta recorted ca Shaw's contéct card, however, his local file
contains only three pieces of imocuous corresponlence.

3. Since we cannot deterine the nature of DCD's relstionahip

with Shay fres cur files, we would appreciate your summarizing it
for us. We'vould also, of course, velcane your guidance in responding
to any neva setia questions about our relations with Shaw, should they

materialize.

J. WALTOM MOORE:

i

Attach, as stated

22 DPoer ch By 003029

CONFIDENTIAL

