# 104-10192-10247

## Page 1

104-10192-10247

•CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

•SECRET

DATE: LI MAX 6333/10

10

DIRECTOR

UNWATE

ROUTING

15

16

FROM ,

ACTION

MAY 1 1 19492.63

DOP,

ADOP,

SOO 6, CA 2, CA/PIG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4,

61/0P9, 60/16 2,

: F1, 51/0, F1/ INT 6,

SA9 12,

WA 6, RI/AM, D0/!, AO/CI 2, AD/NE, S/GZ.

ROUT INE

IN

36838

TDC5D8-3/654,603

"DIR CITE WAVE 8316

INTEL TYPIC

MEO

MAY ZO 1963

DOC. MICRO. DER.

подниме

SUPDATA: AMRAZZ-I OF THE MRP.

RID:

INDEX.

FILED 11/17142

REPORT CLASS:

CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: INTEREST OF 38 NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY AND MONTECRISTI 19-120-27

MOVEMENTS

IN JOINING NEWLY AMALGAMATED ORGANIZATION.

809-300-3

809-120-107

D01: 20

APRIL - 3 MAY 63

FADA: US 3 MAY .63

19-120-37

UFG-2815

APPR: 3

ROUTING

• SOURCE:

CUBAN LAWYER (C) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS

INITIAL

CASTRO GROUPS IN CUEA AND IN EXILE.

IN COMMENT:

NO BEPARATE CABLE DISTRIBUTION

B BEING MADE OF THIS TDC

PIP/NIS

RID/20

RID/FI

SAS

ELEASING IWO:

WH/REG

MM/PACY.

5

1

103

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

11 MAY 1963

2351z

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

TbCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

urG 2815

NP/AMAAZZ-I

SECRET

•SHADING

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

1 Tiay63

19-126-22

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

IN

CONFICENTIAL

TOCS 68-3/654,603

CONTROLLED DISSEM

FAGE

36838

2

38 NOVEMEER GROUP, IT STY SECAME APFARENT, HOWEVER, THAT

RODRIGUEZ WAS TRYING TO FINO AN ORGANIZATION WHICH COULO BE LED

BY JOSE (MIRO) CARDONA, FORMER PRESICENT OF THE CUSNY REVOLUTIONARY .

COUNCIL (CRC): ALTHOUGH THE 3E NOVEMEER GROUP DID NOT MAKE MIRO'S

LEADERSHIP A STIPULATION OF THEIR AGREEMENT, THE MRP, SUSPICIOUS

•OF THE MOTIVES OF THE SE NOVEMBER GROUP, BACKED OUT OF THE

NEGOTIATIONS. (SOURCE COMMENTS ON 29 APRIL AT 1I A.M. RADIO

CARIBE IN SANTO DOMINGO CARRIED A THREE-MINUTE MRP TAPE AS PART

OF A HALF-HOUR BROADCAST FEGULARLY PRODUCED BY MAX LESNICK AND

GEAMED TO IHE CUBAN POETICATION. MRP PUBLIC RELATIONS COORDINATOR

JOAQUIN (GODOY) JOLTS DELITERED THE MRI MESSAGE WHICH ANNOUNCED

THE UNIFICATION OF THE IRF WITH ALPHA-66 AND THE SENE ANO CALLED

FOR THE UNDERROUND TO UNITE WITH THE REBEL ARMY AND MILITIA TO

PREPARE TO REPUDIATE THE SELL-OUT OF CUBAN SOVEREIGNTY.)

2. AS OF 3 MAY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE 38 NOVEMDER AND

MONTECRIST: MOVEMENTS HAD RESUMED DISCUSSIONS WITH THE NRP

ON POSSILE UNIFICATION, AFPARENTLY NOI WILLING TO DROP THEIR

PREVIOUS INSISTENCE THAT MIRO BE APPOINTED TO A HIGH FOST IN

THE ANALGANATED ORGANIZATION. (SOURCE COMENT: THESE THO GROUPS

HAVE MUCH IN CONION WITH THE MRP IN THEIR GENERAL NAKE-UP AND

POLITICAL ORIENTATION. THEIR APPROACHES TO THE MAP ARE INTER

FRETED EY MP OFFICIALS AS THEIR LAST CHANCE TO FIND A "HOME", SINCE

CATON

PISSENINATION CONTICIS

COMFICENTIAL

1587957028

19: 0.5

CONTROLLED DISSEM

#fE.

128-158020

CONTALITON OF IDES INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 3

4-00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

and benario 80009080 bare, P90 18 08€ Pres

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASS FICATION

DISSENINATION CONTROIS

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

СУВА

REPORINO. TDCS08-3/654,603

#UNECT

INTEREST OF. THE 30 NOVEMBER RCNCLUTIONARE

DATE DISTR 11 MAY 1963

AND MONTECRISTI MOVEMENTS IN JDINING

NEWLY

AMALGAMATEO ORGANIZATION

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

26 APRIL-3 MAY 1963

RESERENCES

PLACE A

UNiTED STATES (3 MAY 1963)

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

IN

36838

y

3

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A CUBAN LAWYER (C) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS AMONG ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS

IN CUBA AND IN EXILE.

RE CONSCLIANTION OF ANTI-CAsTRO

1. ON AGOUT 26 APRIL IÇÉ3 ORLANDO

Cer; (ubn

¿RODRiGUEZT PEREZ, LEADER

OF (THE 38 NOVENBER REVOLUTIQKIRY MOVEMENT, APPROACHED OFFICIALS

OF THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEULO (MRP, REVOLUTIONARY.

MOVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE WITH THE PROPOSAL THAT HIS GROUP JOIN

THE NEWLY AMALGAMATED ORGANIZATION OF IHE MRP, ALPHA 66, AND THE

SEGUNDA FRENTE NACIDIVL DE ESCAMERAY. (SFNE, SECOND NATIONAL FRONT

OF THE ESCAMARAY). MRP OFFICIALS AT FIRST WERE DELIGHTED AT THE

PROSPECTS OF THEIR BECOMING THE CENTER FOR GENERAL UNIFICATION

OF EXILE GROUPS AND MADE ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE INTERGRATION OF THE

CLASSIFIRATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DIA ARMY'ACSO MANY AIR DES SACECEI

TiNg

ISLASURY

TACLAN!

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

ETELEGRAM

074.+→

1KA OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(11-20)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

1935=003/654,003

MIRO FAILED TO ORCANIZE THE IGi GiGGiNG COOPE WHICH LEFT

THE CRE WITH MIA, AND SUNES THEY CAN DET GO TO THE CUNTA GENE

CONARIÀ CUEAN FUURE, CUERN RECE GUART UNITY, OR TO THE

SATISTIANOS.)

EXPECTED TO INTENDE CONFERENCE GO GENTO SCHELO ME THE LUNVERSITY

TONNA CH 5 ANS GISY

REEMA OLE ONE NEATE CUESTION OF MaRIE

I. Livyie

CUBAN LAWER IN HASHINGTON, ELLA PEGERESFONOS WITH THE NSE

FIELD DISSEME

STATE I

-!!. 3. 86921B

CINCLANT

20:.1.9.00

11700363

19-20-72

---

