104-10336-10032

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

C(A1R -33

SECRET

9 January 1997

J. Barry Harrelson, JFK Project Officer
DS&T Information Management Officer
JFK Records

Assassination Records Review Board
Letter dtd 18 December 1997

1. This is in response to the latest inquiry from the
Assassination Records Review Board. Specifically, DS&T was
tasked with the following items:

CL: (0524507)

CL Reaso: 1.5(c)

DECL On: Sources marked OADR

Date of Sources: Oct-Dec 1963; 7 April 1975
DRV FROM: Intel Reports and Memo

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

£. CIA IR-33
Request: 1.) What.idoes*FBIS do-with this citation
“EBIS-USR-92-112”"? Is: filed.and if so, .under what filing
7 §

SECRET



13-00000

SECRET

name # 2.) Is, it. rec, gorded in -iN,@, database that .can., Sear, Dey E
Oswald references? If yes, are STi veterences “available. inj
the ‘public domain? 3.) Are there any current files: on

Oswald?

Results: 1.) Citation “FBIS-USR-92-112” would be
incorporated into an appropriate FBIS publication (JPRS or
FBIS Report). This particular citation also would be in
microfiche. 2.) The AFS (Automated FBIS System) would
also contain a copy of this citation; and thus, a keyword
search on “OSWALD” would be feasible. Effective June 1997,
microfiche was eliminated and replaced with a “soft” copy
contained in the AFS system. All unclassified FBIS products
are available to the public via NTIS (National Technical
Information Service.) 3.) FBIS does not keep any past or
current files on OSWALD.

2. If you need additional explanations .on any of these

items, please call me on secure 76297.

SECRET


13-00000

<article num=14)
<pub)>FBIS-USR-92-112
<bktype>
<region>FBIS Report: Central Eurasia

<date)2 September 1992</date>

<dv RUSSIA

<sv>POLITICAL AFFAIRS

<h1>KGB Case No. 31451 on Lee Harvey Oswald</h1>

<s1)924C2102A Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 7, 8, 11, 13 Aug 92
Morning Edition, 11 Aug 92 Evening Edition

<afsnum>924C2102A

<citysre> Moscow IZVESTIYA

<lang)Russian

<sb) [Article by Sergey Mostovshchikov, IZVESTIYA correspondent:
“Case No. 31451: What Information Does the KGB Dossier on the
Man “Known as the Murderer of U.S. President John Kenriédy
Contain?"]

<h3> (7 Aug p_ 7) ¢7h3>

<txt> [Text] Four years before the assassination of U.S.
President Kennedy the Soviet KGB began collecting information on
an American named Lee Harvey Oswald, a young man who on 22
November 1963 was indicted for the murder that has become the
most mysterious crime of the century. The dossier compiled by
thé KGB Gonsists of five thick volumes and a small file folder
tied together with shoelaces. The documents appear to contain
detailed information on some rather strange years in Oswald’s
life (October 1959 through June 1962), the period when he lived
in the USSR after requesting political asylum for reasons
unknown.

<txt>The dossier, which has lain in Soviet intelligence archives
for the past 30 years marked “No..31451," remains top secret,
with access to it virtually impossible. Howevér, state security
officers have agreed to answer some questions about the files
preserved in the archives. Furthermore, friends and
acquaintances of Oswald who are still in the former USSR
remember many details from the life of the man whose named is
linked to the assassinatiom.of John Fitzgerald Kennedy.

<h3>I. Surfacing to Periscope Depth</h3>

<txt>The history of the Soviet dossier on Oswald is somewhat
reminiscent of the maneuver of surfacing to periscope depth, in
which a submarine approaches the surface so that it can raise
its periscope and take a look around. In November 1991 the
Oswald case almost surfaced from the depths of the KGB. At that
time the wholé:world just missed by a matter of weeks finding
out virtually everything the six mysterious case files contained.
<txt>It was Vadim Bakatin, after taking over the chairman’s
office at Lubyanka in. the wake of the coup, who attempted that
experiment with top secret KGB information. The "Oswald file*
was hardly of fundamental importance to Bakatin; during his
slightly more than four months as KGB chairman he had many more
serious problems to deal with as he attempted to reform the
structure of the Lubyanka empire. File No. 31451 most likely
occurred to him by chance: the latest anniversary of the Kennedy


13-00000

assassination was approaching, and once again the world was
talking about Oswald.

<txt>On orders from Bakatin the dossier was retrieved from the
archives. And then the new KGB chief, who subsequently admitted
that he did not fully comprehend the secret might of the machine
he was directing, attempted to make the documents public. He
wanted to do so because, as he put it, he had not found anything
in the "Oswald file" that was fundamentally secret, and nothing
that the KGB would have any point in keeping a secret any more.
Of course, the names of the agents who conducted surveillance of
Oswald in the USSR should not be named. Naturally the contents
of purely personal phone calls tapped by the committee or
intercepted personal letters should not be disclosed.

<txt>The rest of the dossier, Vadim Bakatin asserts, simply
consists of interesting historical documents which, even if they
could yeveal methods of Soviet counterintelligence operations,
can only reveal methods from 30 years ago.

<txt>Nevertheless Bakatin’s efforts provoked incredible
resistance on the part of Lubyanka’s professionals: the KGB had
never before disclosed information on the activities of any of
its agents. A commission established within the KGB to study the
matter was virtually beyond the control of its own chief. After
several weeks of work the experts selected from the dossier only
12 insignificant documents from the dossier; these they proposed
that Bakatin make public. Judging by information in our :
possession, he was extremely displeased with the results and
ordered them to go over the dossier again. This time new players
unexpectedly entered the game.

<txt>Bakatin got a call from Belarus KGB chairman Eduard
Shirkovskiy. He requested that the "Oswald file" be sent to
Minsk for a. few days so that his agency could reach-a decision
on it.

<txt>Shirkovskiy’s claim had some justification, because there
was no question that the bulk of the dossier had been collected
by Belorussian counterintelligence agents -- Oswald spent
virtually all his time in the USSR in Minsk. Yet aftér leaving
Moscow for only a few days the dossier did not return:..
<txt>Very shortly thereafter Bakatin was relieved of his
position, and a majority of KGB personnel categorized all of his
reforms as treason.

<txt>The Oswald file was re-registered. Assigned the number 226 -
and a stamp on each file folder stating "Not to be released
without permission of the division chief," it was put in a light
brown safe in an office in the Belarus KGB building. Now the
only people who have access to the papers are Eduard Shirkovskiy
and a few of his subordinates.

<txt>The chairman of the Belarus KGB, to give him his due, is
now making very firm statements about the possibility that the
dossier will be declassified and is not leaving any illusions on
the part of those interested in it. He has already been offered
$50 million for the “Oswald file," yet Shirkovskiy refused
because he sees his position as a matter of principle: he will

2


13-00000

not transfer the case file anywhere outside of Minsk, and he
will make the documents public only if the Belarus Supreme
Soviet passes a special decree declassifying all KGB archival
materials on which the statute of limitations has expired.
<txt>The Oswald file, which incidentally according to
Shirkovskiy does not contain anything particularly secret, has
thus probably now become something of a symbol to the Belarusan
leadership, a symbol of new governmental thinking independent of
Moscow .

<txt>No one knows how long this will go on.

<txt>However, what Eduard Shirkovskiy did permit during an
interview with IZVESTIYA was definitely progress. While
categorically refusing to allow interviews with KGB agents who
worked on the Oswald case, the chief of Belarusan state security
nonetheless did have the file brought out of the safe and also
agreed. to interviews with some of his subordinates who are
thoroughly familiar with the documents. So we can thank the
chief of the Belarus KGB for his help with this investigation.
Thanks to the assistance of his subordinates we now have at
least a general idea of why Soviet intelligence services were
interested in Oswald and just how his “case” was handled.

<h3> [8 Aug p 7] </h3>

<txt> [Text]

(h3>II. Red Trackers¢/h3>

<txt>The system for surveillance of Oswald in the USSR was to :
all appearances maintained in the spirit of the latest advances
in early 1960’s Soviet counterintelligence. Present-day experts
who have gone over the dossier note that at that time everything
was done very painstakingly and, most importantly, cleverly.
According to Eduard Shirkovskiy, chief of the Belarus KGB,
Oswald was under such tight surveillance that he was watched 24
hours a day. Virtually every method of gathering intelligence
information except for chemical substances and psychotropic
drugs were employed.

<txt> "Well, maybe they did drop a few tablets in his glass, but
just the kind to make him let down his guard and be a little
more talkative," said the chief of the Belarus KGB. -

<txt>The dossier has anothey notable feature. The KGB claims
that there is not a single indication in the case file that
Oswald was ever interrogated by Soviet intelligence agents. On
the one hand that is strange because the circumstances of
Oswald’s appearance in the USSR and his subsequent behavior
should have prompted (and did in fact prompt!) the greatest
suspicion on the part of the KGB: in 1959 it was not just every
day that a tourist from America so stubbornly insisted on
political asylum.

<txt2Oswald arrived in Moscow as a tourist on 15 October 1959,
staying in Room 320 of the Berlin Hotel. The very next day he
went to the authorities to request political asylum and Soviet
citizenship -- and was almost immediately refused. It was
reported to Oswald via the hotel’s service bureau for foreigners
that his request had been denied, and that he must leave the

3


13-00000

USSR on 21 October. :

<txt»On 21 October, at 2:45 pm, U.S. citizen Lee Harvey Oswald
opened the veins in his left arm as a sign of protest against
his treatment by Soviet authorities. He was taken to Botkinskaya
Hospital and his arm sewn up. A note written in English was
found on the table in his hotel room. It read: "Did F come here
just to find death? I love life."

<txt>This life-loving foreigner was so peculiar that he
petitioned the USSR Supreme Soviet several more times, asking
that it grant him political asylum, would under no circumstances
leave the USSR, and on 31 October 1959 made a scene at the U.S.
Embassy, where he allegedly publicly renounced his American
citizenship and went so far as to toss his passport onto the
ambassador ’s desk. .
<txt)One would assume that if American intelligence services
encountered a Soviet citizen in the same situation they would
definitely. resort*‘to either a concealed or a direct...
interrogation. The KGB claims we did not do so. Why not? We
probably had our own methods. The request by Oswald, who was
clever enough to attempt suicide to gain the attention of the
USSR’s leaders, was finally granted. Anastas Mikoyan personally
gave orders to consider very carefully the American’s request
for political asylum in a country for which, to all appearances,
he felt a great love.

<txt»In November 1959 this troublesome individual was granted
the right to live in the USSR temporarily, with a. residence in
Minsk, a city where the KGB was obviously counting on being able
to observe the American in calm surroundings. At least it was a
long way from the embassy, and he would associate mainly with
Soviets. If he did make any espionage contacts they would be
more obvious, in Minsk.

<txt»According to information from Belarusan counterintelligence
personnel, that was in fact the main suspicion in regard to the
American -~- that he was working for foreign intelligence
agencies. The KGB’s main effort to answer this question focused
on the dossier, which subsequently grew quite fat. The dossier
was marked “Case for agent processing.” It is said that that is
a term previously used in counterintelligence to mean that the
client in question was being "felt out" with the help of a
network of agents...

<txt>?...In January 1960 Oswald moved to the capital of
Belorussia and Moscow handed the case over to Minsk, leaving in
the file applications from Oswald received by the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and the USSR Supreme Soviet, a transcript of a
conservation with the doctor at Botkinskaya Hospital who sewed
up Oswald’s slashed arm and who reported to the KGB that in his
opinion the American was capable of irrational acts, reports
from the external surveillance service in which Oswald is given
the code name “Nalim," and apparently some other initial
documents as well.

<txt)In Belorussia intelligence agents gave the new client
another code name -~- Likhoy [Russian: “valiant” or "“dashing"]

4


13-00000

Capparently a plan on the name Lee Harvey) and set to work on
his case painstakingly and diligently. According to a
high-ranking counterintelligence officer, only one or two people
in the republic KGB had full information about the operation.
Several teams were set up, with none of them knowing what the
others were doing. According to some sources the Oswald case
involved up to 20 agents recruited by the KGB.

<txt>You can get an idea of how those agents were hired from the
recollections of one of Oswald’s closest friends in the USSR:
Pavel Golovachev. He worked with the American in an experimental
shop at the Gorizont Radio Plant in Minsk, where Oswald had been
assigned to work as a metalworker at the lowest skills level.
<txt)In January 1960, literally about two weeks after Golovachev
made the acquaintance of the foreigner who had unexpectedly
appeared in his shop, he met a man in street clothes outside his
building who showed identification as KGB agent Aleksandr
Feddrovich Kostyukov. At his home 18-year-old Pasha Gelovachev
was shown photographs of some people that the agent called —
criminals and was told that it was not good to deal on the black
market since he was the son of the pilot Pavel Golovachev, who
had been twice awarded the Hero of the Soviet Union medal.
Obviously the KGB was counting on the sheer mass of the
information to intimidate Pasha and make an informer out of him
by “clipping his wings." Finally it was proposed that Golovachev
meet with certain people several times a week and tell them
everything about Oswald.

<txt>Pavel Golovachev will not say whether he agreed to work for
the KGB, but judging by what he say it is clear that. he has no
great love for that organization today, to put it mildly. In
1963, when Oswald was killed while being transferred to jail,
Golovachev wrote a letter to Lee Harvey’s widow in America -~
Marina Prusakova -- expressing his condolences. Subsequently he
was visited at home by KGB agents, who seized-all photographs of
Oswald and his wife, along with letters that Oswald sent to
Minsk after returning to the United States. Then Golovachev was
taken to KGB headquarters, where according to him he -was first
threatened with prison and then advised to keep a low-profile
and not say too much. Beforg, they let him go they for some
reason forced him to write a request to the Main Post Office
asking for his letter back, even though it was long since in the
hands of the KGB.

<txt>Then Pavel Golovachev was allowed to go home. He assumes
that all letters from Oswald addressed to him as well as the
negatives of the photographs which have become famous around the
world and were.included in the Warren Commission’s report are
still in the KGB archives.

<txt>)Judging by what other friends of Oswald have said, the KGB
dossier must contain stacks of transcripts from the bugging of
Lee Harvey’s apartment in Minsk. It has been suggested that the
apartment was absolutely full of bugging equipment. Some sources
in Minsk claim that once the KGB “asked” Oswald’s neighbors who
lived in the apartment directly above him to leave for two days.

5


13-00000

<{txt>It was probably at that time that everything was put in
place. If you look at Oswald’s apartment from the street, then
it is obvious that the balcony of the apartment one story higher
is many times smaller than the balcony of Oswald’s apartment.
Consequently even a child could climb down into the American’s
home, much less the KGB. So most likely everything. that Oswald
said and did in his leisure time was recorded or at least
carefully listened to. -

<txt)In addition to the surveillance, the bugging and agents’
reports, the KGB made good use of various “plants,” as
counterintelligence agents call them.

<txt>For example, judging from certain hints, the dossier
contains a large number of documents filed in the course of work
on the scenario that Oswald was possibly seeking contacts with
people who had access to classified information. It is likely
that he was repeatedly put in contact with people who allegedly
possessed confidential information and was observed.tto gauge his
reaction. On another occasion someone tried to engage him in
anti-Soviet conversations. But according to his acquaintances
Oswald rarely made that sort of disclosure. All in all he
remained very aloof while living in the USSR, and his friends
generally tried not to take any interest in the American’s past
or his plans for the future.

<txt>Simultaneously the KGB attempted to determine Oswald’s
attitude toward works by the founders of Marxism. According to
some sources it was noted that the American not only had no
interest in political self-improvement, but also generally
shirked things like the frequent trade union meetings and mass
cultural events. That evidently aroused further suspicion,
because when he requested citizenship Oswald claimed that he was
a communist to the core... :

<txt>Naturally the KGB attempted to carry out all these
undertakings as unnoticed as possible. Yet Oswald’s friends and
acquaintances are convinced that he was well aware that he was
under surveillance.

<txt>The American’s upstairs neighbors -- Semen Samuilovich and
Mayya Abramovna Gertsovich -- recall that Lee Harvey (Alik, as
they called him) and his wife Marina Prusakova warned them and
asked them to be more careful.

<txt> "Marina once said to me something like ‘don’t socialize
with us -- that could cause unpleasantness’," recalls Mayya
Gertsovich.

<txtErnst Titovets, a close friend of Oswald’s in Minsk who is
today a professor and a department head at the Belarusan
Scientific Research Institute for Neurology, Neurosurgery and
Physical Therapy, says that Lee Harvey clearly sensed (and
perhaps actually knew?) that every step he took in the USSR and
his life after his return to the United States would be
carefully scrutinized later. For example, there is a curious
detail in the Soviet diary allegedly kept by Oswald in the USSR
and later published in the West, a diary that he is presumed to
have written after his return to the United States. The American

6


13-00000

describes Titovets as an active Komsomol member. The professor
says that may well be, but that he was never particularly noted
for his Komsomol activism, and that Oswald was well aware of
that. Most likely, Titovets feels, that sentence was written in
order to protect his friend in Minsk (if the fact that he kept a
diary became known in the USSR), who could have been-compromised
in the eyes of the Soviet authorities by his friendship with a
foreigner.

(txt>But the most interesting thing is that Oswald was not
actually overly fond of those authorities, despite all his
claims to the contrary. In any event, when he left for America
in June 1962 he handed his neighbor Mayya Gertsovich the
following text in the stairwell of their building:

<txt> "Build communism by yourselves! You do not even know how to
smile like human beings here!”

<txt>The real builders of communism were in fact not smiling,
but-rather trying very seriously to determine for what purposes
the American Lee Harvey Oswald came to the USSR.

<txt>Today one can draw the following conclusions:

<txt>1. The "Likhoy" described in the dossier did not carry out
any intelligence assignments for foreign intelligence agencies
and was not of any interest to the KGB.

<txt>2. Likewise, KGB representatives flatly deny that he was
ever recruited to work for Soviet intelligence. Since there is
absolutely no way to confirm that at the present time, there is .
only one fact in support of that statement: the relatively large’
size of the dossier compiled on Oswald. According to experts six
volumes is too much for a person who had been recruited by the
KGB. In such cases all that would be compiled would be one thin,
top secret folder...

<txt>But in order to arrive at the first conclusion the KGB
spent years watching relentlessly. Day after day the committee
shadowed every step by the American, who incidentally led a very
socialist life style...

<h3> [11 Aug p 3) <7h3>

<txt> [Text] fee
<h3>III. A Metalworker’s Job for a Metalworker</h3>  -
<txtWhile the KGB was filling its fat folders Oswald led a
normal Soviet life.

<txt)In January 1960 the American citizen, after receiving
permission to reside in Minsk, got his first job -- helping to
build the first workers’ and peasants’ state in the world. In
view of his past -- as a U.S. Marine he was stationed at various
bases and serviced communications equipment -- the authorities
assigned Oswald to the Gorizont Radio Plant as a metalworker
with the lowest salary of all -- R761 [rubles] per month (in
very old rubles). Plus a 40-percent progressive piece-rate wage.
<txt>Researchers have always been puzzled by the choice of that
Particular job. The problem is that Shop Number 25, where Oswald
was handed a file, hammer, nails and other tools, was called an
"experimental" shop and until just recently was considered a
restricted area. By no means everybody who worked at the plant

7


13-00000

was allowed to enter it. So why was an American, and a suspect
one at that, immediately given a job at an off-limits facility?
<txt>However, according to Mikhail Sychev, current deputy plant
director for security, the plant was not secret at all in the
early 1960’s.: Shop Number 25 became a restricted area about two
years after Oswald went back to the United States. True, other
people have claimed that supposedly some “secret” prototypes
were made in the shop while Oswald worked there. But even if
that is true, that was not really all that illogical. On the
contrary, the KGB would have a splendid opportunity, without any
risk, to see how the American would behave.

<txtdIf something happened he could be picked up with ease.
<txt>But he did not have to be picked up. Oswald not only showed
no interest in what the plant was manufacturing, to all
appearances he was not even terribly interested in his own job.
<tRtoA former co-worker, Konstantin Yalak, recalls that
initially the American was fairly good about performing his
simple duties, which consisted of nothing more than basic sawing
and screwing in screws. But then metalworker Oswald began to
tighten fewer screws and spend more time with his feet up on the
table, complaining that he was not getting paid enough. It was
not enough to live on!

<txt>The foreign metalworker’s co-workers felt that the American
was just complaining for the sake of complaining. Some people
might be having a-hard time, but not him. Oswald did not just
live on his wages. As a living specimen of the supremacy of the
socialist way of life he received an extra bonus from the Soviet
authorities. Each month Oswald was paid approximately R800 by
the Red Cross (obviously under the guise of humanitarian aid).
These payments continued until “Likhoy" wrote to the authorities
announcing his intention of returning to America.

<txtoAfter that he ceased to receive financial assistance.
<txt>Financial support was not all he received. Oswald obtained
a one-room apartment on the fourth floor of a plant-owned
building in the very heart of downtown at 4 Kalinin St. (now 2
Kommunisticheskaya St.) with amazing speed. He arrived-at the
plant in January 1960 and by March already had something that
Soviet citizens had to wait, years for.

<txtdAs Oswald’s neighbors Mayya and Semen Gertsovich, who lived
on the fifth floor, recall it, there was a large family living
directly beneath them in Apartment 24. Those people had been
requesting larger, living quarters for a long time, yet their
requests had repeatedly been denied.

<txt>Then one fine day they were given a two-room apartment and
asked to move as quickly as possible. Repairs began at once on
the now-vacant apartment, and the repairs were done so quickly
and.so well that it was like nothing that had ever been seen in
that building before.

<txt>Then the American arrived. Mayya Gertsovich recalls that
she made Oswald’s acquaintance by coincidence. Once there was no
hot water in his apartment and she went out, leaving the tap
open. The water suddenly started flowing again and began running

8


13-00000

down into the apartment of a future suspect in the assassination
of the President of the United States. He came upstairs and made
a row, threatening to complain to the plant. He spoke Russian
poorly, and it was hard to understand him.

<txt>They resolved the conflict. But the belligerent foreigner
did not greet his neighbors for a long time afterwards...
<txt>They got to know each other better when Oswald married a
woman from Minsk, Marina Prusakova. During that period he became
somewhat calmer, and by then he could speak Russian better.
<txt>The Gertsoviches visited him at home and recall that Oswald
and his wife lived in very poor circumstances. They had some
government-issue furniture that the plant had give them: a
bookshelf, a kitchen table, two stools... In short, the, place
made a dismal impression.

<txtoErnst Titovets, one of Oswald’s best friends, states on
that point that Oswald bought virtually nothing for the home.
From the very start, from the very first months of- his life in
Minsk, it was somehow obvious that he did not plan on staying in
the USSR very long. Titovets claims he had no doubts about that
at all, and so was not surprised when Oswald decided to go back
to the United States... .

<txtdAt the plant his co-workers reacted to Oswald’s departure
without any particular sadness or regret. Oswald was pretty soon
forgotten. Naturally they remembered him in November 1963, when
the name of the former metalworker from the Gorizont Plant
became famous around the world.

<txt>In the experimental shop everyone shook their heads in
wonder at how such an ordinary and unremarkable person (and in
their opinion a poor worker) could go and kill President
Kennedy. There was even more talk when Oswald himself was shot
point-blank by Jack Ruby, the owner of a seedy bar, while being
secretly escorted to jail without security measures.

<txt>But they did not shake their heads over“it for long: soon
afterwards KGB men came to the plant and advised them not to
engage idle speculation. And generally to forget the fact that
an @merican had ever been there. Whereupon they went-and removed
from the local library a form containing a list of books that
Oswald had read.

<txt>And then they went away.

<txtoWhile the whole world was saying that the man accused of
killing Kennedy had lived in the USSR and probably was a Soviet
agent, the KGB went back to its dossier and began carefully
filing away newspaper clippings from around the world on the
progress of the murder investigation of the century.

<txt>Later, after the furor had died down a bit, Oswald’s Minsk
file was finally closed and relegated to the archives. Not only
specifically KGB data but also a tremendous amount of extremely
interesting information about the habits of the man accused of
murdering Kennedy were classified top secret.

¢h3>[11 Aug Pp 8} </h3>

<txt> [Text]

<h3>IV. He Was Never a Sharpshooter ¢/h3>

9


13-00000

<txtOnly after 30 years had passed did the existence of a
Soviet dossier on Oswald become public knowledge. And it is
understandable that the information contained in those KGB file
folders is of interest not only to journalists and researchers,
but also to some of Oswald’s former friends and acquaintances in
Minsk. -

<txt>They feel that they have a right to see the materials in
the file that concern them personally. One can only assume that
the KGB had the people who came into contact with the American
checked out through its own channels. Anyone’ who had close
relations with the American undoubtedly appears somewhere in the
dossier.

<txt It is not hard to imagine today who those people were: the
American who worked at the Gorizont Plant had a fairly limited
circle of friends. He had a buddy from the shop where he worked
--"Pasha Golovachev, the son of the pilot Golovachev who was
twice awarded the Hero of the Seviet Union medal. He became
friends with a man his own age, Erik [Ernst] Titovets, a student
at a medical institute, who was introduced to Lee Harvey by a
female interpreter. He also socialized with a man named
Aleksandr Romanovich Enger, who at the time worked at Gorizont
in the radio receiver division. Enger had had an interesting
life: as a skilled specialist he was sent abroad to study, then
during the war Aleksandr Enger went to Argentina to escape the

“persecution of the Jews. From there he returned to the USSR. In

addition to an interesting life he also had two interesting
daughters -- Eleonora and Anita-Evelin. Most importantly, Enger
spoke English.

<txtoAs Titovets recollects, a chance to speak his native
language was important to Oswald -- the American spoke Russian
poorly. At the time Titovets himself was very interested in
English, and since in the 1960’s it was difficult to find
someone to talk with who was fluent in the language he attempted
to spend as much time as possible with Oswald. Ernst Petrovich
[Titovets] now recalls that at first he regarded the American as
something of a talking machine or a walking textboak= He
tape-recorded Oswald’s voice, and then with the studiousness of
a future professor analyzed,the features of his pronunciation,
his vocabulary, and so on. Incidentally, Titovets still has
those tapes, along with many letters written from America by
Oswald, at his home -- for some reason the KGB did not seize
them. :

<txt>Naturally Oswald and Titovets did not just speak English
together at the time. They were 20 years old, and there were
Plenty of attractive girls in Minsk. So the two buddies probably

- had something to keep them occupied.

<txt>The pair were regulars at dances and in groups of young
people.

(txtoIt is difficult to say what else Lee Harvey did while he
was in Minsk... It appears that he never did anything for very
long. For instance, he bought a camera, but then never learned
to take pictures very well.

10


13-00000

<txt>He bought a radio so he could listen to Voice of America,
which at that time was not being jammed here. Incidentally, that
radio once broke and Oswald -- a U.S. Marine who had specialized
in electronics -- could not repair it. His friends helped him
out -~ all he would have had to do was straighten out a little
plate. (Incidentally, even that incident is recorded-in the
dossier -- counterintelligence obviously concluded that Oswald
could not grasp even the simplest radio devices, and therefore
had not undergone any special intelligence training).
(txt>Generally speaking the Belorussian KGB came up with the
wildest notions. For instance, counterintelligence was very
upset when in August 1960 Oswald joined the plant hunting club
and bought a single-barreled TOZ {Tulskiy oruzheynyy zavod --
Tula Weapons Plant] hunting rifle. Later, after Kennedy was
killed, it was that rifle that gave rise to the widely
circulated stories and speculation that Oswald had always been
crazy about weapons and never missed a chance to practice
shooting. His wife Marina Prusakova, in her memoirs published in
the West, also pointedly focused on this hunting toy, which
Oswald allegedly made a great fuss over.

<txt>Naturally at the time the KGB was not aware of how
important every detail of Lee Harvey’s relationship with weapons
would be to the world.

<txt>When counterintelligence found out about the TOZ it came up
with its own version: “Likhoy" wanted to use hunting as an
excuse to wander around in the vicinity of secret facilities.
<txtOf course the KGB received a detailed report on every trip
to the woods. True, it did not discover anything criminal --
Oswald was not looking for missile silos and did not take any
strolls under barbed wire. But in this connection a very
interesting detail did come out: the American who, according to
the. official version of Kennedy’s assassination, was a
super-sniper actually shot very poorly. Very poorly...

<txt>That is confirmed by David Zvagelskiy, formerly head of the
Gorizont Plant’s physical culture club. According to him a
shooting match was once held at the plant. On that oecasion
everyone was given.a Margolin pistol and herded onto the
shooting range -- to preparg “for labor and defense," as the
saying went.

<txt>Zvagelskiy remembers Oswald well. He arrived at the match
in a yellow leather jacket. He held the pistol in two hands,
drew it cowboy-style and took aim. They tried to explain to him
that here in the USSR that was not the way people shot. To which
Oswald replied that, well, that was they way they did it over
there. He proceeded to fire two or three shots at a fairly large
target from a distance of 25 meters. David Zvagelskiy says that
he would give the results a “three” -- there were other people
at the plant who were much better shots.

<txtoAfter the match Oswald was not seen at the shooting range
again.

<txtAs for the TOZ, the metalworker with the code name “Likhoy”
did not keep it very long: after a few trips into the woods

1.


13-00000

Oswald sold it to a second-hand store. For 18 rubles. A fact
which, incidentally, is also recorded in the KGB dossier, along
with all the rest of the American’s leisure time activities.
<txt>People in the employ of the KGB were present at every
dance, party or festival attended by the U.S. citizen while he
was in Minsk. Maybe he danced with them, had a drink -with them
or talked with them, never realizing that every step he took was
being recorded and filed away in those secret cardboard files.
<txt)Just as Oswald could not have guessed that the evening of
17 March 1961 when he and Erik Titovets went to a dance on the
medical institute’s evening at the Palace of Trade Unions would
also be painstakingly described.

<txt>The dossier mentions the fact that that was the day he made
the acquaintance of a 19-year-old Minsk pharmacy worker named
Marina Prusakova, the woman who two months later would become
his wife.

<txt)>The story of that. marriage is a topic in itself~.

«h3> [13 Aug p 6) ¢/h3>

<txt> [Text]

<h3>V. In Love by His Own Choice?</h3>

<txt)Minsk pharmacy employee Marina Prusakova, who has gone down
in history thanks to her spouse, still prompts many questions
and hypotheses among students of the Kennedy assassination.
<txtFor example: was Oswald’s Soviet wife a KGB agent? If not,
then why is she listed in some documents as Marina Nikolayevna
and in others as Marina Aleksandrovna? Why should Oswald have
married a Russian woman at all? Could he have come to the USSR
with the prior intention of simply living here for a short time
and finding the first female citizen who came his way in order
to eventually compromise the Soviet Union after a brilliantly
Planned and executed FBI/CIA assassination of Kennedy?

<txt)The latter version is currently the most actively discussed
around the world, and many people are inclined to consider it
the most likely. History will probably judge who is right and
who is wrong. The facts tell us the following.

<txt)People who are familiar with the Soviet dossier -on Oswald
swear that Marina Prusakova was not working for the KGB. The
irregularities in connection with her patronymic are purely a
family matter. Her father was in fact named Nikolay, and thus
she was Nikolayevna-. But her mother remarried after her daughter
was born, and her second husband was named Aleksandr Medvedev.
Obviously the patronymic Aleksandrovna showed up in some places
because of her stepfather -- merely the result of a mistake.
<txt>Marina’s early life was a difficult one. Her mother died,
her stepfather. married another woman, and she was a complete
stranger in the new woman’s house. Then she moved to Minsk,
where she lived with relatives -- a maternal uncle named Ilya
Vasilyevich Prusakov and his wife Valentina Guryewna Prusakova.
There she got a job in a pharmacy.

<txt)Fate was preparing a future for her anywhere but in a
pharmacy.

<txt>In early March 1961 she met Oswald at a dance at the Place

12


13-00000

of Trade Unions. After that evening he almost immediately became
ill with an ear infection.

<txt>The American was sent to the hospital, and Marina began to
visit him. Less than two months later, on 31 April 1961, the
marriage of citizen Marina Nikolayevna Prusakova, Russian, born
1941 in the city of Molotovsk, Arkhangelsk Oblast, and U.S.
citizen Lee Harvey Oswald, born 1939 in New Orleans, was
recorded by the state registry office in Minsk’s Leninskiy Rayon
as file No. 416.

<txt>The speed with which Prusakova’s marriage to the foreigner
was registered is enviable, since nowadays it takes about three
months between the time one submits a marriage application and
the actual marriage. How could it be that the marriage of an
American was approved so rapidly, and in the 1960’s at that?!
That seems strange ~~ more than a little strange. On the other
hand, the explanation could be quite simple: though we were
experiencing a thaw with America, we still continued to
paternalistically chide it for its capitalism, and suddenly here
was this propaganda tidbit. One of their people had defected to
us, and fallen in love with a Soviet citizen to boot. Why not?
<txt>The coincidence just seemed a bit strange.

<txt2In moments of openness Marina Prusakova complained to her
neighbor Mayya Gertsovich that her husband was a tyrant and was
always making a row about something, that he brought virtually
no money~ home;,- and that he demanded rare steak and wine for
breakfast. He really did not love her at all, and that was .
probably his assignment -- to marry her. When it suddenly became
clear that Oswald was preparing to leave for the United States,
Marina said that there was no way that she would go. to America,
and that her husband was teaching her English but that she had
no desire to speak that language.

<txt)Once her neighbors even tried to.convince her to go to
America. They argued that Oswald’s mother lived there, so maybe
things would be easier for them there. In Minsk there was
virtually no furniture in their home.

<txt>Lee Harvey’s first daughter, whom he named June~Marina, was
born in 1962 and slept in a washtub. What kind of life was that?
<txt>But Marina told her nejghbors that America was not for her.
<txt»To hear Oswald’s friends in Minsk tell it, things were a
bit different. Citizen Prusakova had a reputation in Minsk as a
woman who was a little fickle, to put it mildly. According to
information from several sources, in America Oswald once even
hit Marina when he accidentally discovered that she was writing
to some man in Minsk: a letter was returned because Marina had
not put enough. postage on it.

<txtOswald’s friend Ernst Titovets is convinced that Prusakova,
being a very practical woman, was the one who sought out an
American to marry. Oswald was dating and had proposed to another
woman, who was working as an assembler in the same shop where he
worked as a metalworker. But she rejected the American, who
appeared to have actually loved her.

<txt>Nevertheless, Lee Harvey’s marriage to Marina in no way

13


13-00000

changed his ideas on the sacredness of the institution of
marriage. Ernst Titovets claims that Oswald literally worshipped
the family, and after the birth of his daughter was a very
changed man. He was the one who washed and ironed his daughter’s
diapers and looked after her. Marina, in the opinion of Titovets
and Pavel Golovacheyv, another close friend of Oswald?s, was.a
sly young woman, and all her protestations that she did not want
to go to America were most likely either coquetry or pretence.
By the time she left for the United States she was making
derogatory remarks about the socialist system as well as any
American could have done.

<txt)In response Oswald told her something approximately like
this: "No matter what happens to you in the future, never say
anything bad about the Soviet Union." é

<txt>Which, incidentally, did not keep Oswald on the day of his
departure from Minsk, while standing in the stairwell of their
building with Marina, a suitcase, a backpack anda —
three-month-old daughter in his arms, from telling his neighbor
to go on building communism herself, without any help from him.
<txt>That farewell to his neighbor took a minute, maybe less.
Yet according to several sources it took Oswald more than a
year~and-a-half to say those words.

<txt>There is evidence that he first declared his intention to
return to the United States as early as December 1960, when he
had only lived in the USSR for a little over a year. What. about
the superiority of the socialist way of life? Who would flee
from a country where universal happiness prevailed?

{txtdIt is said that attempts were even made to prevent the
American from leaving. Pavel Golovachev, one of Oswald’s
friends, relates how once Lee Harvey signed up for an excursion
to Moscow with other plant workers. But he was told that. the
excursion had been cancelled, even though it actually took
place. Some of Oswald’s former colleagues repeatedly told me
about rumors circulating at the time that once Oswald tried to
go to Moscow by train but was takenuoff the train and sent home
~-~supposedly because movement of foreigners within the. country
was strictly regulated. see

<txt>Yet, on the other hand, what point was there in working so
persistently to hold on to "him? The KGB had already written him
off when it came to the conclusion that he was hopelessly
uninteresting to the Soviet intelligence services. Furthermore,
Lee Harvey Oswald was still an American citizen; he did not hold
a passport with the hammer-~and~-sickle cover at all. (There was a
story that he allegedly threw his American passport on a desk in
the embassy and left it there. In fact he kept his U.S. passport
-- No. 1733242 -- the whole time he lived in the USSR, and that
is confirmed by KGB information.)

<txt>Clearly, too much pressure on “Likhoy" could turn into a
scandal.

<txt>Furthermore, the U.S. Embassy, which Oswald did eventually
reach, obviously took an interest in him as well. Buying tickets
to America took money. According to some sources about $400.

14


13-00000

There was nowhere a metalworker could have gotten that amount...
«txt» Yet nevertheless he left with his wife and child. His
mother wrote to him that she could not send him the money for
the trip because she was saving up to help get the family
settled when they arrived. So it must be assumed that Oswald got
help from the embassy.

<txt)It was in connection with the departure of Lee Harvey
Oswald and Marina that the KGB added an additional volume ~~ the
sixth ~~ to the dossier. That volume contained materials
gathered in the course of a special investigation conducted
prior to their departure.

<txt>It is said that this was a customary procedure in such
cases. Questionnaires, permission to exit, questioning of
relatives, affidavits, forms on knowledge of military secrets
and state secrets, information on loyalty to the socialist
syStem... It appears that nothing serious was found, since the
sixth folder is the smallest of all the volumes in the dossier,
and probably contains only a few documents.

<txt Of course, no one knows what kind of documents they are.
<txt>But it is interesting to note that one fine day, after
gathering up his things, Oswald went to the Minsk train station.
There to see him off were the Engers -- a family he was friends
with -- and his friend Pavel Golovachev. Ernst Titovets, cited
in all the sources as Oswald’s best friend, did not come to see
his friend off, later explaining that he could not because he
was busy. Golovachev took a picture of the young couple saying
goodbye from the window of the train as it pulled out of the
station. That train carried away from Minsk the mystery of Lee
Harvey Oswald, the main accused of killing Kennedy.

<txt>Fact: not a single one of the people I interviewed in Minsk
believed for a second that the American they knew 30 years ago
was capable of killing the President- of the United States.
<(txt>Speaking separately they all repeated thé same thing:
Oswald was merely set up to take the fall. He got involved in a
plot in which he was used as bait by the very major forces which
actually carried out the assassination.

<txtoErnst Titovets is even writing a book on this subject,
investigating the moral aspects of sacrificing an individual
human life for political purposes.

<txtKGB representatives who are familiar with the contents of
dossier No. 31451 are also convinced that Lee Harvey Oswald was
not independently capable of preparing and carrying out an
undertaking as major as Kennedy’s assassination. It appears that
to counterintelligence officers in this country this is a matter
of some sort of strange professional jealousy. How could it be,
they reason, that we could write him off as a person absolutely
unsuited to carry out any serious assignments, as an ordinary
and unremarkable individual, and then that less than one year
after leaving the USSR for the United States he could kill the
President of the United States?! Does that mean that the
round-the-clock surveillance, the tricks and traps, the
scenarios and suppositions, in short, all the KGB work that is

1S


13-00000

being kept secret to this very day, were mply worthless?
<txt2KGB personnel are clearly not fond of such conclusions.
Some of them cling to the theory that Oswald was just a link in
a very major operation, one in which he was simply assigned a
vole, with no concept of the overall scale of the operation. And
even that was more than Minsk knew... ~
<txt>...Here the reaction to the news of Kennedy’s assassination
was unique. On 23 November 1963, one day after the tragedy, what
had happened was broadcast on television, along with a
photograph of the man arrested for assassinating the President
of the United States.

<txtdIt was Lee Harvey Oswald.

<txt) "Good lord, that’s our Alik! That can’t be!" exclaimed
Mayya Gertsovich, who had once tried to explain to the future
suspect in the Kennedy assassination that she had accidentally
let water run down into his apartment, and that it was not worth
complaining to the plant about. \

</article>

16


13-00000

7 April 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: T. Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM; J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer
Historical Review Program

SUBJECT: ARRB Request No. CIA-IR-33,
FBIS Files On Assassination

1. The following is responsive to subject request.

2. The ARRB requested information on how FBIS-USR-92-
112. was filed; if the FBIS database may be searched by name;
and, if FBIS has any files on Oswald.

3. UR-92-112 is the translation of several articles in
Izvestiya about Oswald while he was in the USSR which was
found on the Internet. These articles within USR-92-112

-would.be incorporated into an appropriate FBIS publication

(JPRS or FBIS Report). Unclassified FBIS reports are
available to the public via the National Technical
Information Service. The USR-92-112 articles would also be
included in the AFS (Automated FBIS System), thus a keyword
search on “OSWALD” would be feasible. FBIS does not keep
any past or current files on Oswald.

4. If you require anything further in this regard,
please advise.

ve

J. Barry Harr&lison
