# 104-10179-10192

## Page 1

104-10179-10192]

SECRET

RECKIPT FOR AUTIENTICATION MATERIALS

DB CASE NO. - 4106- --

TO: TSD/DB

DATE 8 Aprid 1901--

I HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF THE FOLLOWING AUTHENTICATION MATERIALS

TRANSSUTTED WITH MEMO NO. AB 6299 DATED.8 April 64- AND PREPARED IN

ACCORDANCE WITH SifSA ad-219, 27 Narch 1906

Juan CARDENAS Mende:

SERVICIO MILITAR OBLIGATORIO Document 9520419

CARNET LABORAL #750389

SINDICATO NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES DE BANCOS Y SEGUROS Document#11473

CIRCULOS SOCIALES CTC-& Carnet 11473

JUSTIFICANTE DE PAGO 7 (9 receipts)

7-941732

7-123585 7-227346

7-378354 7467125 7552440

7-659278

7-765619

7-846547

DEFENSA POPULAR Document #522522/00855

LICESCIA DE CONDUCCION 472628

VOTE: Autentication Materials must be returned to TSD/DB as soon as the intended operational use

hms been fultilled; unused documents, whether filled in or blank, must be returned to TSD/DI

when no longer needed

TSD/DB should be notifed if any of the Authentication Materials are destroyed, lost, or for any

other reason can no longer be refurned

D-081

SECRET

---

## Page 2

1. The following fifteen documents have been prepared in the

nane of Juan CARDEÑAS Mendez and are based on valid Cuban exemplars

and information available to TSD/AB:

SERVICIO NILITAR OBLIGATORIO Document - Comprobante No. 2-520419

This document was issued to the bearer in December 1963 (a

few days before Christnas) when he roported to Conite Militar

No. 703 in Vedado to register. for the draft.

It was compulsory

for all males betwoen the ages of ló and 44 to register this

past December and perhaps during the first week in January 1904.

This type (Comprobante No. 2,

blue printing) was issued to

those who at that time vero between the ages of 25 and 34.

CARNET LABORAL - A - No. 750589 - This document was issued tu

the bearer in mid-1962

and shows his employment status.

SINDICATO NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES DE BANCOS Y SEGUROS Document

CarnEt G-NO. 11473.

This is a union ID card for bank

employecs

and shows that the bearer is affiliated vich section "Agencia

4-15-01" - He reccived this document souctime in December

when, according to his date of birth, ho was 32 years old.

CIRCULOS SOCIALES CTC-R Carnet de Identidad G-No. 11473. This

is a union member's social club card, and was issued with the

union carnet.

Note the same serial number.

The names of his

parents scen on the back were chosen by

JUSTIFICANTE DE PAGO 7 (Union Dues Receipt) - Nine of theso

havo been prepared

showing dues paid (one per cent of monthly

salary') for the months of April through December 1964.

it is

very important to note the dates of actual paycent (FECHA DEL

COBRO) , when the slips were given to the bearer.

He must be

not to show receipts before the dates on which they

were made out.

Previous soceipts should be kept and presented

on demand.

The earliost receipt (for April) can not be showi

until 24

April 1964.

The latest (for December) should not be

shown until 4 January 1965 or any timo later.

DEFENSA POPULAR Document No. 522522/00855.

This is the militia

document and was issued to

the bearer on 19 February 1963.

Nembers of this organization holp

keep public order, do guard

auty at certain times and

in general support the regular

allitary when called unon

dame " - o

---

## Page 3

document was issued to the

LICENCES DE COSDUCEION (DridEr"s License) do. 172028e expires

bearer in August 1903.

on 30 November 1964.

It shows that this is his first license

of any kind and that he must wear glasses while driving.

is not licensed to drive a truct or to act as a chauffeur.

Entries found in the documents support the story that Juan

CARDENAS Mendez is single, resides in Vedade, Calle 12 110, works as

a seller in a bank locared in Marianao, is a seabor of the people's

defense organization, has registered for she draft and can operate an

nutomobile. "These documents are not bacistoried and should be used

for identification purposes only.

The bearer should be instructed to

study his documents

and information concerning their use, memorizing

important entries such as dates

and nancs.

ahen authoritios request,

he should present only the document or docurents called for. •He

should

not flash

then all at once

unless the situation requires this.(Familiarity

with his cover

story, confidence in his docusentazion and a cool head

will be his

most important weapons in most cases should ho be stoppody

and questioned.

PLEASE NOTE:

like to invite your attention to the

Draft Registration Document,

which shows OFICINA DE INSCRIPCION NO.

On tho basis of

available cremplars le know that this office

(05) Issued thoso documents to individuals residing in the BARRIO of

VEDADO, but we also know that there are other OFICINAS DE INSCRIPCION

from COMITE MILITAR No. 703, who issue these documents to residents

Of VEDADO. 'Jurisdiction of the various OFICINAS is contingont on tho

addresses of individuals in VENDADO and there is no complete information

avallable as yet on the address provided for!

We thorofore

made a guess

and picked OFICINA (05), which das one of three linown to

us that issued documents to VEDADO residents. In bioN of this fact,

18 may be safer it we wero to issue

another draft registration

document, with ar address that is definitely known to be in a givon

ares from which we have accurate information. Thig will also

Issuing another CARNET LABORAL and & CARNET for. the CIRCULOS SOCIALES,

since both documents

show subject's address. Please let us know whether

no should anke up these new documents.'

roaded sor operational purposes:

These documents are to be returnod to ISD/AB when no longer

---

## Page 4

14-00000

--

AB MEMO NO. 6799

8 April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOK

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Chief, NIl/SA/SO/AR

TaNSAILLA

of Cuban Internal Documents

Or AMBANG-I. (AB Case 14406

8: DH/SA 6

DE/S 04-209,127 Maren 15% 1964

nstructions concerning their us

and other pertinent infornation

can be found in Attachment

2.

Please note paragraph 3 of attachment..

Please sign and return one copy of the enclosed

authentication receipt fors.

"CHIEF/TSD/AB

Attachment: 1 envl.

As Stated

Distribution:

Orig

Addressee

SECRET

---

