104-10485-10266)

;
_@rrareiaiierl
<r HISTOR REVEM PROGRAM

TROLUSiVE BATES: 7 war WES G. a 19a,
CUSTONIAL UNIT/iecation: Ee .

7 i : se RDA
HONS, i ANY: : Mone. i

: sor
i

els 7% a : Layer a) 7 :
CVE ka Chante, BY
CLT Oky is is achat ee :

i

a Fea Area ie Leper

aye ai Z,
fig) SRE Bie
PRAE ane - . ONC Ape.

ee
'
i
+


(A Si Sm wa IA Eakin habeas Renda mast hth ai sual 5
J : SSeS elma eta cine Radda cuisine Rot

L 1
THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE
x

CONFIDBRTIAL

Ia 2593

wae


PORUFEN LITAMIL-9

There are attached two contact reports coverin, meetinzs with

LITAMIL-9 on 16 and 27 Novenber 1963.

Attachments
As stated

Djetritution
reese w/att Besereresraesteeeueucelect
2 = C/EAS wert ae ‘
2 = COS WAVE w/att 7 ,
2 = Files

= ft & SAYe. ts come.

7



Nowenber, secting took ple 5
wife sat in back with L-9 -- “he vas intredue to her as Teele ier

2 2. Lag reported that on the afternoon of 16 ov he was :

‘fy 4150-3 who santed to sec hin on a matter o” importance, L-9 ae

7 prised to receive this call but told A-3 to “cone over here now if you
YW.’ tow 443 said he thought {t would be better for the tyo to meet at the tar

y * of the Del Prado Hotel at about 1800 on 18 tov, L-$ asked 3 Sor instructions.

B said that in view of the nossibility that i.-9'2 are shone nicht be taoped
or that A=} might let word leak out that he had cortacted L-9, L-9 should ine
form Ambassador Wernandes immas of the call ~- it vas «creed that 3 would con
~ sult further on this matter and that tha final decision would be relayed to hin
on the evening of 17 Novenber -— L-9 would call 3's hone end 8, in a short con=
versation would use the word Acapulco if the incident shovld be reported --
Kazatlan 4f not. (L-9 called-as scheduled and the word Acapulco tas used).
L-9 saz advised to keep avay fron A=3 who was believed to de in tem ia
conection with his efforts to get his relatives out of Cuba, He was told not
to qo to the Lel Prado Honday night unless Armas insisted that he do so, He
vhodld nake every effort to avold any encomter with 4-3 -- staying avay fron
his howe as much aa possible,

3ez.U29 has some Lingering 3 suspicions about A-3 —— saiditiise
‘Ae3 used €6 drive a Mercedes Deny 190-SL sports car, bright red, which
to an officer in the Mexican Enbassy — L-9 found this strange since the
who had diplenatic “status, covld bring a nev car into Cuba duty-free at mich Joss
than the going price for a used one on the local ee reeie 9 ene taiea fee tae

Institute lately and hes come to the conelesion that FLOZES is 100g
in favor of the Cestro regine, He arrancn! a neeting between Arb,
Hernandes cirmas and Flores at the
ror (wo picked this up on LIE
exhibit of Mexican art in’Cubz <= 3)
had earlier rade sore arrangi~ents to 3¢:
air to Cuba (also picked up on LT!
Cong.
wv Yexicam doctor (se Vest
now F xi, reported that had Ser i
governnent and had} in the cidse of hurricane aired ', sold to cuba
200,000 pesos worth of merchandise far only 30,000 pesos,

vled for January 1965, L-9
Mexican paints

a curly gusaner (Goihan'e

MEE HAI - Foc y gy e



nw abe tr

rae

Dra "AGH" has’ told Teresa not, to have anything to do with
Silvano REYES ‘Fuentes without checking béforchand sith hers

a says he is going to get married in thay in Guba to a
hho works in MINREX, ‘hen asked if this would be by proxy, he
Said he would g6 to Cuba for the marriege but that his wife vould
not subsequently come to Mexico, (This is en interesting tidbit -
, it willbe recalled that ‘PERZIRA has been coming up on LIENWOY as
@ possible honosexual, )

447m wil be teaving for Cuba on 18 Kov, L+9 believes there 13 no
force in the world that can deter AZCIE fron Ms detersination to
retum, A's wife is desperate, hates the thousht of going to Cuba
but does want to see her chilaren who are Ure, L-9 ovecheord A
say in the office: "I've alreedy started to fight, wit

Itlche.a prisoner in the Cabcila Fortress. Said this

Ton HEORREIEESOT in the hono® of AD eJo
2 rks at the :
osition, She seid that she had asked.
.VEZ to zo to EE turne!
said, "I quis." CIVEZ then snoothed
-plaining that if she were to quit she ag une
Ace-now that DIAZ Ordas

patriotic ranner ina di7ficult sit
sointnents yill be of
people tres the
for a rightist.

A Cuban in torn looking for a visa te return hone to Cube entered
the US six tines illegally, ‘is nare 4
Embassador Yernander Amas says that’;

ce was “very h
about the rel:

era.with the cour Jone
Souches."



"Ge (Gana-2) wii went +6 the- 18 ausue ‘tenth ag0"in 4 ema
boat nd tho his-in his perversion en

Cuba from fexico on 16 Hoverber, ‘He haa ‘rom. the
party,
pecole a3 the CARPENTLZ: BEY, ware dulprised to see
Leonoldo*zea there — he had newer bean there before,
ya

oravias shooting off at the mouth at the sane partys
‘ontine jourmlist 0S over to her and said,
‘rdaz purposely -~ to insuro
he would get the PRT nonination, FufcAlS agreed, (This refers
the issue of Politica which had-a pioto of DIAZ Ordaz' on the
cover along with the words — Ie will not be president), Dolores said
that DIAZ Ordaz 4s a good friend of her. father end that her brother
1 probably becore a diputsde in the new legislatnres She said that
ZIAZ! line would te the same as LC¥SZ veteos' — no probler.

t, Lately the Anbessador has been turning on loud music in his office,”
(To cover conversations - ?)

ws. L-9 went to the Soviet Embécsy party sting the Deteder

Revolution ~ 7 Nove

v. L-9 took the pouch to the airport Friday ( 8 Nov-?). Hewas
accomanied by Hozelio, He tuo the pouch over to the “scbrecergo"
(steward) on the Cubana plane, Had picked it wp just inside the door
of the Embassy, (Test. missic;

w. The planned exhibition of cuban engravings ab San Luts Potos! did not
cone off for reascns not fu?ly cleir — sone administrative SEAFU.
L-9 4s now planning to set, wian cuithtt at Guadalasara,

5. B-inforned 1-9 that he: would: be ‘on vacation from about 2 Decenber until
Christzastine — said that he could put -9 in touch with another officer during
this period or could put the operation on i¢e en energency rail channel left
opens LP said that he nuch preferred to ant 4% on ice, dec! not vant to be exe
posed to any note reople. 4 sere concern about

Sone money available.to do sexe shoppin ¥
the next six-nonths advance rent for’ his:

“all along deen sending
4s good insurance in several

packages to his sister-in-law and feels
; | Kays, especially since it suits her to heve @
2 L-9 would probably be left alone and_alcved to revain in
<iebe-vill need six tines 650 pesas or 3,500. pescz.
: ~Yoverber and Decerder salary plus a year-end
. local custen) at. the next resting

* enable hin to pay his

to Cuba for Christ=as.





Atte “CRON a” Lewrence F, Barker aici

SUBJECT Addendum to CR covering meeting with-LI7a‘IL-9, 16 Yov 196) :

LITAGL-9 reported the following additional infornats

Send Strect, Caicago, Illincts, left
‘Taecdey 12 November and cave to ivexico via Canada vhere
he obtained a Cuban viea at the Guhen Consulate in Toronto,

He arrived ta © on the niskt of 15 Novender ani stayed et
the Hotel Agnes, He visited the Ceban Fnbassy ca the norning of
16 November and was cue to fy to Cuba the same day, The Cusan
Erbassy paid 3 23.80 excess baggage charges for tia (tS Cy).

Stein is an enzinecring draughteran and speaks italian, He left
a postcard Sith L-9 to be nailed to: ;

ta
Shirl Linge
: TSO 2, 5284 Street
Chicago, Illinois
US.

sages

Dear Shirl & Clint.

In a few rinutes I leave IC
settled I will write irm .
of you very auch,

Ralph

kaureuce Fo Raden

LOPS og tees

° Canadian Ath



2 ae Set npn
loa - . .
* fan. i
A
4 -
; 28 November 1963
MEMRANDTE FOR THE RECORD
: : PRM oo: Lawrence F. Barker
SUBJECT :  Meetinzs with LITA7L-9, 23 and 27 ‘Yovender 1963 q
- "1, ca the night of 23 Novenber Le contacted arker ty phone and

2 nesting was held fren 2130 to 2230 hours, 13's reason for meking the

contact was to express his condolences for the recent assassination of 2

President It 125 clear that L-¢ ves tadly chakea wp by this
pening == when he spoke of irs, Jacqueline Kennedy his ayes clouded up

with tears,

Sen Coieit“<— no, tad ho ever heard
2 visited the Cuban Smbassy in ica -=- no, Did he mow anyone
assy tnat mew Oswald or Znow onything about hin == now

2, ‘UA was asked if he had ever
bgt Osval:

coh ran was in the harjs of ~fean police but Le
as obvicusty wnavare of ber detention) the reacfion of those
: tnside the Enbaszy was to the nevs of t! = death, L-9 seid thet

he had heart very little talk about it, ¢!
erfunctory affair, but that

serday noming staff
st about everyone semied
pleseure about the
inf tuat ence Fidel Castro
vho ere now classified as
nenselver to be essentially geod

2. La? was asxed to renort on th
chassedor

id not Peogntes A
2 hed rece:
70 to 3

that
salt thet

“a call fron

hin

7s

nould not Fo ont rak
t nress the noint b
as a Cubana airline pilot,
having been contented by 2
Srked aftenmnis that he
in Cuma,

on 27 Novenber,
2 and Leg rad

fexico isa :
ch Ters.
Aon youlent~



ES 4

= She said that. the cops had threatened her
extraditfen to the wb Ge unlikely) whereunon she said sh

(L-9 does no% iow. who

or what Ais access to Ts vie saic
srised that sord of her arrest ves relayed to 2e:
by (tantttze who flashed-the vont by 2390 hears
Tefesa Fs one of. the crow! list.

her nephew to leave =. said; "ws con't ‘ent you sround heres" £21 in all,
Silvia thoucht she did’a good job of st:

az he hae done before, that she is a vr:
She did not appear’ to hava been rouche:
her “ordes1."

S. L-9 had nothing more to offer on the | dy assassination — vas
again shom a pketo of Oswald — never caw the ~ He said thet there is
4 talk arctund the Enbessy about the killinz -- perhaps because no
me is exrected te anprove of such a thing
to make too much Suse about it for fear of

At this point

NOW,

intelligent, quick-witted cirl,
i

6, L-9 reported on other ratters as follows:

a, The Counselor of the Soviet Enba
the Cuban Embassy at about 105

sy (no nare given) cane to

specialist Dr,
alent), DIAZ

tris (this wes + :
tage of the occasion to cor:

closely adout

4 his desire to have
sous to be Nexy

cho: om,
is now oubtiz

would be
.d that complaints would be made

id that she wes quite sure

to Silvia tell her tele, ordered
ing tp to the police, 2-9 repeated,
ny tay or to have suffered fran

3 con exffers Sree sone heart
he projected
took

case


re eee aetna ae
anata tli hinii a at anArA AW duet

sth

of Cantilo CIENFUSGCS which he plans to cive to the Embassy, possibly to - |

“de ratfled off, oroceeds to go to hurricane vietins. we eth,

Qe He was aske! for additions? datatl oncnice atteran m= had

belfevel that she had bron livine with the MG's0's end Peregrina ALOXSO
but fomd thet this was abit coafinins and had noved "about ten tays or two
ago" to live sith a ! 1? beliwves that her rother
ctumed.to Suta sone tine aco.

She "talks like a Covunist,” en
in Wand, Florida -- does not ‘mez
pretty. She is about 2h years old,

10, The como arrangeents set w with L-9 were as follows:

Signal: Someone will -hene L-9's enartrent at 0800 hours

and will use the word "alfowbra! == rug -= perhaps
be buy to nick up the rug you went
thing in this enter that uses the word
” [op weil reply, on must have the wrong

number."

: The night of that sane day and on subsequent days until
contact 1s effected L-9 will go to a public phone booth
at the corner of 22ferma ant iventda Yonte Altai (Lomas)
will be approached by aa’
jescion ane clearly
ani a pack of

cicarettes
be readily

Note: There is a beoksto:

one buoth == ".-9 as
around here, browsing
- always oa tine,

“is on tha right side
solcos moniment — a short
restaurant.

The eontect point (
going up keforns
2 beyond the

Tl, Le9 turne? over some Havana n-wsz: “ich will be forwented to

VE 6

a

SECRET sel ft $2



foul MACIAS Franco, Cuban delegate to the Assemply. in Mexice City

of the International Union of Architects, which followed the Architectural
Congress held in Havang in early October, informed LITAHIL+9, @ Nexico Station

agent, that the Cuban roverncent had identified the Greek delezate to the

Havana éongrese as a KUBARX agent, MACIAS did not identify the delezate by

name and did not give any further details.

i
Willard C, CURTIS * |
i
t

Distribution:

2+ cea,[-—]
v2 = C/mD
2 = C/SAS
2 = C/E
3 = Files i

6 Hoverver LD
“ acsine wate '

201 + 329609 H



"RHE FE LEELA
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

a

: : \ “ jen

Chief, WH Division |
Chief, SAS ;
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

cy
om
Chief of Station, Kexico City S

axe :
Contact Report -- Meetings with LITAMIZ69

TERN GORD FRONTS.

PSRUMEN LITAMIL=9
ree contact reports covering meetings with

There are attacked

LITANIL-9 on 15 Octover, 26 October, anc + Noverber 1963,

Atzachrent:
a Contect Report

ED w/ate
= CYSAS w/att
= COS NAVE w/att
~ Files



‘
|
i
1

alle : \ :
/ : SECRET : 16 October 1563
. MEMORANDU FOR THE REGORD Hs

FROM . Lewrence F, Barker
SUBJECT 1 Meeting with LITOL-9, 15 October 1963

1, 29 was picked up in Felanco at 2000 hours and driven te Ble
home where a meeting was held until 0020 hours (16 Oct) at. which time
L-9 was dropped off in Colonia Cnauhtanoc, He identified 90 photos from
among several hundred taken {rg the LIENCDE Base House; he was unable
to identity any from the LIESRICE coverage of the AMKNOB-reported Safe

House at 157 Pachucas :
2» L9 reported on the following:

Be

Raulr¢l3 Franco,
Assembly of the Internationa inion of Architects held in
Mexico City the previous week.

MACIAS said that the Greek delevate to the recent Architect's

Raped,
Re “fie =e Congress in Havana had been identified as a KVBARK agent. He
K ‘did not give this Fan's nano. _—_ ——

gave the Castro~Cubans a lot of trouble

The Nextean Lanon<Cr
q in Havana and it was Roped that some way nicht bo found to take
: Se the Vice Presidency axay frex him, because of the proposals he
! oR rade —- vhich were disrptive, but the Cubans and their allies

San it would be best not to risk a fight with COOMA,
The SL. Te Dghsstran who presides as president of the UIA (International
Union of architec s) un the other hand, very docile end easy
to get alon; with -- the Cutans liked him, ‘shen he came back
a fron Cuba the Mexican authorities at Merida "rave hin the works,"
dumped the contents of his lecrage ont. meermoniously and searched
4t carefully, confiscatin; iron Kin a numter of packages which
only contained nateri ating to the conress. ‘The Cuban
delegates, such as hinself, got the sane treatment and
lost’a muber of thincs they were bringing to “extco,
During the Havena ce:
buttons (allowinz h

end it was hastily a
the Mapazine architec
English newspaperman, stoien then. Th:
accorlingly, hald wn.

{ fron 2 asn, to 6 any
: reieise. The Anerican 6

Fees

s, a number of lapel identification
3 to nter the sessions) disappeared

ined that an Anerican present, an cditor of
ord had, in conspiracy with an

so two peracns were,

\CLiS had to intervens to secure their
ared "hurt" by the accusation and arrest
: to send hint a drink, (L-9 said: If

he wag a KUBARK azent, ho did a good Job while under arrest, jadgin
frau MACIAS' account)

SECRET

P-o0c74 :

2 15G

oped
5 BML Ata. 2-7



eran ind Proara (day aaa ‘eavclot-eares et to cosas teas
and-whereFid?l CASTRO would address the. group lest he be the

Sa for banking.

. ‘(Wote:tgumeeZ Corrie was here with another physician for
several days — L-9 saw quite a bit of RAMIREZ and had him

take sare nedicine to L-9's father on his retum, He assesses
RAMIREZ as a "very valuable element, one you would do well to

try to win over to our cause," L-9 did not know the nane of 5
the other nedico but identified his picture in the LIERODE take.

2 A short tine aro, View Consul Ovilio%SA3A of the Consulate in

6 Lo Veracruz told L-9 that he would like to close dom the Hexican-

H. AI] g Cuban Cultural Institute in that tom <- it is not working ozt well,
people are not attcnding meetincs. SAMA feels that the 609 plus .

pesos per nonth that this operation costs can be spent in better * ¢

= ae sh emanate a i
: 4, .RUIZ of tho Corercial Office told L-9 that sémcone had given

y hin 30 dollars in-Cuba to buy a pistol here in Mexico and that
he had mansved to find one for 300 pesos, (LIENVCY recently ‘
revealed that RUIZ was buying a Spanish Llana pistol).

eo _Cubana Capta: tainbeaper saw L-9, VEGA, andSsgis_of Cubana at
the airport on 4 October -= L-9 and VEGA had gone out together
to see RAMIREZ Corria off -~ and SsMDEY pointed to the TLel8
on the ficld, saying that for several reasons they had not yet
been able to cet permissicn to use this plane (which brought the i
Soviet cosmonauts to Mexico) to carry medicines and other relief
supplies a3 cargo’on its return to Cuba, %ZQJi3 later showed wp;
about 6 p.m. at the Soviet Anbassy ere a reception was in
progress) to speak to Anbaccador .DEZ Amas about this
sane ratter --L-9 witnessed the encounter. (LIZN\UY covers this +

subject).
f, At the Sovinb reception mentioned above, which «as for the
Purpose of introlucinz Soviet dele-ates to the International
eronautical Conference then in session, L-9 spoie with (tau)

Qaets 2 Tice of elen Office =~ L-9 says that CICERO ds pro-
7m ile overheard a your Yoxican official
Chef vr ieee = Mexiesn lero Club asking CICS? if it was true that the
ge hie an Isracli delerato to the Aeronautical Conference was going to be
Cats expelled froa Mexico -- didn't hear the answer to this, The

an + expulsion was reportedly in connection with a "probl ana
Bie ye nigratorio,* oer

The two-door blue Suick sedan used by. the aaa Office is
going to be sold ~- according to Vera,

hy “When L-9 was scoing RAMIREZ Corria off a-chi a
with!

as "Piru! shoved wp, This ran lives

x : SECRET Eos br0



SECRET)

(aboat’ 2)
4n Koxico ‘several/nonths. He 4s a Cuban and was closely
connected with "Che" GUEV.PA in some official sapacitys | be
does riot plan to“return’*o Cuba, butts. sti22-in-touch
"Cho" #» received.a letter fron hin 2 weeks ago. As SARI
-and his doctor.conanion prepared to leave, "Biru" said, "Hy
‘brother is:chief of all thoce-hedicos ‘in Cuba.” "Birutisa = °
Right. ait to aboub.3S years old, Coty SOLORZANO is néw trying .
get hin a: job in Nexto ‘City, He usually eats lunch with
‘AZCIB. “At the airport he said he couldn't understand why
AZCUE was ¥illing ‘to be recalled to Cuba --. said’ that he doesn't
‘mow how AZCUE-will manage to survive wiat with ration cards
and other such “inconveniences.

PRIORITY TASK: IDENTIFY THIS MAN "BIRU™

4. Boonetpausn, a senator fren 3ritish Gitana, left for Havand on
hk Octovor -- hiv is very friendly with L-9, spoke with him :
before making an cdrlier trip to the Island which had to do
with procurenent of petroleun products from Cuba, He told be?
that the Iexican Consul at Trinidad had civen hime 6-nenths
multiple entry visa but tiat this was taken away from hin at
the Mexico City airport, ie wondered whether AZCUE might help |
hin get it back, AZCUE told kim to relax, that hs could get :

—-innleomatiecmmmnanether fran the Nexicar officisls in-Uavante "8 mee

KHAN left a postcard with Le? to mail to his wife, L-9 showed '
it to Barker, Copy: :

‘Hello Moon & Kids Mrs. Maimun N, KHAN
60 Anira Street

Mexteo even though ‘Queanstown
beautiful but for me Georgetown
its very cold, I an
now leaving for Havana. British Guiana
Care yourself % kids.
Tam well,

Meoner ,
fac ar eo

wr 2
Je Le9 says thabdLAGOSTER! and'LICHY’Gre involved in a big

love affair -- LIAGSST=A £3 really love-struck and it 4s ‘
quite obvious to everyone in the Hnbassy that the two are

involved =~ they chat on the inter-phone quite often, (LIEN=

WY alerted us to this love affair recently) According to

L-9 LLAGOSTER 4s vulnerable because he has u wife and child

in Cuba,

k, Other insignificant itens were revorted on but not worthy of
faclusion here,

3. A long conversation was held about clandestine orerations in general,

motivation, security, commications, etc, As has bem discovered in, the pasty
L-9 periddically requires an opportunity to explain why he is work{ng for us

and this must te followed up by renewed assurances on our part that wo greatly
appreciate his work and the hirh principles which notivate hin, In this ine
atance, confortably ensconced in B's hone with a glass of scotch’ in his handy

~ SECRET .



a

. _
* 2 .
oo... Secret :
& S$ was in a teleative mood and no effort was made to shorten the sessions

os After he had perforned his catharsis ie seemed te £702 uch better about
. things in general slthourh on the way hore he renarked that he hoped the
Cuban prombles.cowld be solved within a couple of years so ke could get
4 out of this work, It is clear that he fecls strong pressure and, not being
ie : a daring individual, lia {3 looking forward to the day when he can stop
2 Living a-double life, Nothing new cane of this donvercation which ranged
far and wide -- from antique autcuobiies to classical nusic — except that
4 apparently did L-9 sone cood and rave the'C/O a chance to insert a
host. of ‘tradecraft pointers designed to sharpen up the agent's security
and convince hin that (1) his security and well-being is our primary
éoncern, and (2) if we practice good security in the operation he need have
no fears of being conpranised, (IB: A tour as an instructor at ISOLATION
is tha’ best besi® training imaginable for this sort of situation —~ really
pays off),
Lk, A start’ was made on sketching the physical plant of the Enbassy
but L-9 was quite tired at this point and this work was left for the next
meeting. I.-9 looked over our file material on the Embassy building and

explained that so nany changes had been made in the last year that most +
of what we now have is canpletely out of dat, The next meeting will take

up the Enbassy prenizes as the first order of business,

Se _Noxt meotingt Opens : 2 ee
a Lawrence Fh

SECRET



ee : a : suff 28 Pious 1963 .
MEMDRANDUM FOR THE REGORD

FROM + —Lawrence F, Barker
SUBJECT : Meeting with LITAIIL-9, 26 October 1963

1, A meoting was held with L-9 from-2000 to 2135 hours in Bta car
(parked in Tacuba) on 26 October.

2. L-9- reported as follows:
“ » A few days earlier Coty*SOLORZAI0, sister-in-law of General

Lazaro CARDENAS, told L-9 with a groan of disgust that it looks
like DIAZ Ordaz has been chosen as the PRI presidential candidates
The Ambassador is still using the wall safe built into the cnimey
of his office (we have photos of this in our files), L-9 thinks —
that the Enbassy payfoll 4s kept there as the other day vhen he
walked into the Ambassador's office he-saw the Ambassador shut the
safe door ~- Dra, MAGHi00. was there, having just returned frou the

bank where she withirew the payroll, ‘Dra,A¥ACHADO handles the
payroL a the whole Enbassy, Mazger — \PapZow

asso
AZCUS fis = ioaving PCS for Havana on adeeb

ie Leaving quite soon, tio replacenent for him has arrived.
182
MS TiMABIL Jia Looking nore and more like a "security type." He is &
key man ("lleva la batuta al?i"} and appears to be a convinced
Comunist. In the old days, before CASTRO, MIRABAL worked for

the Sherwin Wilijans paint factory (L-9 thinks S-W in the States
must have a record on him) which was located a short distance from

the plant owned by L-9's father,

"1 Mitten
f. Dra.*MACHADO recently told L-9 that X/Z3A was discourteous to her
Shen she first. arrived here but that he has softmed up a bit re=
cently and now seens to "accept" her, She thinks this may be
because che lost tvo sons in the Revolution (no details given).
She complained that LLAGOST=RA still doesn't accept her but JURRIN
seems to be caring around, (This may be the usual resentment caused

by a fenale in a respmsivle executive position).

Ge Embassy staff meetings are held every Saturday morning fron 0900 on
-- usually lasting ebout tvo hours, ‘They used to te held in the
“theater out back under the new constructicn but are now being held
in the glassed-in terrace at the rear of the main building.

Priguee

e at wp in the Enbassy to
Anelude everyone on the staff, Rea, known as ROA to the
staffers, 1s ranroddinc this effort. These groups should be
organized within a week, (L-9 dreads the thoucht of subnitting to
this indoctrination hut realizes he must go along with it).

segReT |

Testy
h, Three Marxist stuly groups ari

tenet en An Att Soar hes Mareen eno ease tess Bin “uikaindees uae,


sae. SECRET

de. Le? recently encersted that Febasey «taff mestines he held
at niht so that afterwards everyone could get torether for
dinner, RUIZ of the comercial office took exception to this
= said that the result would be just like the Rotary Club,
Ambassador HERWANDZZ Armas supported L-9's proposal but did
not pross' for 4

iproval and the decision was nade to continue

_i» - holding. the meetings on Saturday nornings. Later on the Amb,
told L-9, "well, I sipported you, anyway.”

TerQuio Heenawoe > Aemas
Je The Anbascador-Said at'a rocent start mecting that he was taken

to task by a Nexican senator who asked hin why Cuba refused to
sign the atom test ban pact, ARMS (he, like ROi, is mom by
his matronymic) tried to explain that Cubs could never sign the
agresrent as long as she is the subject of Azerican agression,
ARMAS said that Enbassy staff people should be prepared to answer
“such questions and neaticnsd-that-a request was being sent to
Havana to allow the expenditure of sufficient funds to print up
10,000 copies of Fidel CISTHC's speech of 28 September to de
distributed locally += this speech aprarently conveys tho present
"Line" on tho test ban issue,

mister ROA recently mentioned in a note to ARMAS that

he fs glad to hear that L-9 is printing again, 4-9 was, in turn,

to hear that the Yereign Minister takes a personal interest

§ has recently done four paintings == allfemle figure...

we eh TSE LD B asked hin If he nicnt nob do something revolutionary
from time to tine -~ such as a dlitia girl standing guard with a
sub-machinegun, L~9 says he has thought of this but doesn't feel

inspired.

2 (ede TRUDVTE recently visited the Embassy and said that his daughter
Irina, the ex-wife of Riire ViI.DE7, will be coning to Mexico

soon on a "special mission," He also said that his nephew, @
Chilean, (no nane mentioned) recently arrived here proceeding frm

the USA.

A, L-9 got @ nice thank-you letter froa FereniesXiNCHIGA -- sister of
forner Ambassador LEGIWA -- thanking L-9 for having sont her a :
bottle of perfure. 1-9 was pleased to gat this evidence of confidence
since, as he says, if LE were the least bit suspicious of hin

Nereedes would not. gorrase endend with L-9.

L-9 betes. he heard the ran with the thin fo referred to as

4. This is the rin who shaved up at about the same tine the
tmidetified "Licht skinned milatto" (end pesstble code clerk)
disappeared fron the scene, L-3 identified his photo at the last
meeting. (A Raul 24 kas bean showing up inereasingly on LIEX
traffic -- we had considered this to te Rswlito the messenger boy.)
L-9 will try to find out nore about FERETRA and will look into the

ct last nane of Raulito.

De

oe *Ziry” ~ see last CH =- 1-9 lad no acre on this ran except to
reaort that he thinks diru fs found a job and that Coty SOLORZAND
helped hin to get it, L-? says that Birm was sent to Mexico by
"Che" GLEVARA,

SECRET



vic ~ SECRET IE

pe Regarding gara%iz'y"Nv'7 Cata, now in Caracas, L-9 recently
earned that sonetine in the past vhen Sara was on-a Cubana
Plane at Noxico City, proparin; to depart for Havana, she made,
a few anti-Revolutionary ronarks. These were reported te :
— Orfila, who reported thon to Teresa PROENZA, who reported to
~ __Ramon SINOBAS (at the tine Charge et the Embassy), who fired =.
off @ cable to MINREX Havana. hon Sara got te Havana she was
accused of "intrigue." Teresa P:OENZA recently told L-9 about :
~+ this,. (REPORT TO CARICAS STATION).

Qe A Cuban functionary on his way to Uruguay from Havana had sone
trouble with Mexican officials at tho Central Airport --a
Z Cdte. VENTURA took some papers away from him vhen he arrived
2h October and as a result the Cuban was forced to cancel his
onvard reservations on Varig for the night of 25 October ~~ said
he could-not convlete his mission vithout his papers. (Reported this
to CASOT 26 Get in case LIFIRES might be able to get hold of the
papers 4n questica). =
mateot agate mast
re L-9 says that Dra QiCH4D0, her daughter feria, and Parcerina
YALONSO all live together near the Enbassy, (This may be in 157
Pachuca where the ANKKO3-1 safe site was located) L~9 will ask
Dra. MACHADO to have dinner with hin at his apartment == making
sure she is there well after nightfall so that he will be obliged

2, | —. --—-0 see her safely hore and, in the progess, find-out where she

wy lives.

3. As uswal L-9 necded a dit of bolstering. Me said that he fecls intense
pressure at staff gatherings vhen everyone locks at everyone clse present and
wonders "sho 4s the Jwaa in this croup," L-9 stated that ho would much rather
do sone other kind of work and would rather sell tomatcss on tho street than
do what he 13 doing now. ‘The thing that really keqs hin going, acide fron his
expressed regard for KUBARK and his oft-repeated affinity for the Anplo-Saxon,
is his sincere disgust with the C'STXO regime. He again told the story ( B has
heard it a half-dozen tires and Shryock prombly heard it often before that) of
his fathor's having bullt up a biz business by wnstinting hard work -~ of having
brought his fanily up fron nothing to a position of honest respectability -- only
to be classified as a "bandido" ani “oxplotador" by a bunch of revolutionary buns
with beards, It is the case officer's belief that 1f L-9 did not hava a release
through painting he would break off from the Entassy and, naturally, from KUBARKs

It is furthermore believed that if we were to ask L~9 to submit to an LCFLUTTER

exanination as Headqarters has reemtly sucnested, L-9 would inncdiately break
contact with us as no matter how diploratically the build-up might ve phrased he
would take it aa @ slur on his honor and we would be without a pmetration into

the Enbassy.
UL, Next meeting: Open.

Gi ere.

SECRET


SECRET

6 Novewber 1963

KEXORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
FROM =: ~—s Lawrence F. Barker :
SUBJECT : Meeting with LITAMML-9, b Nov 1963

1, A meeting vas held with 1-9 in Bts car from 2200 hours to 23L5 .
hours, k Yow. The car was parked in the Tlaxpana area,

ae 2. L-9 reported as follows:
a vanuel ERA lpft on PCS orders for Havana on the 3 Hov Cubana

CotvASCLORZAO bid hin good-re at the airport along
_ nenbers of the Enbagsy staff, 3 1 not clear who 4s or

. ‘will be replecing VEGA.
ae Streamer toa worked very lata the t of Friday 1 Nov, L-9
: still thinks he may be doing commo wick.

49)
ft) eomtersers 1s going to nove into its rou of offices where

L-9 is now located and is being "care: in” -- is installing
Lia t+ qlemmeorememtt¢or, blinds, ete., as did ROA recextiy.

abghzete win be aroma for a short white before returning to

Cuba -~ he is planning to take a trir to Carpeche with sonecue

named LIZALDE to study building matezials in proparation for

A@CUS's assicnnent to JUCEPL.N as an architect when he returns.

L-9 went on at some length about AZ ~~ said he was cer‘ain

CUE is not a Cormmist, not 2 2? nenber (note that AMKNOB-L

st for many years - 7)
2 fee of "the Pentagon,
has a high regard for the :
very upset at the prospect *
is a loyal Fidelista
e Anericans, At lunch
¢ the Cuban CP == said
as served his usefulness
be raised to hin, but Cuba
of the ways

has AZCUS adnitting he has heen a C:
La9 reneated that AZCUS is an dimples:
and the ruling circles in the US" bz:
Anerican people, AZCUE's wife is st:
of going to live in Cuba, L-9 thinks 1
who would never mmowinziy cooperate x:
with L-9 on k Nov AZCVE lashed out rz.
that Lazaro PSEA should be shot —
= after the shooting a ronunent c:
would be nuch better off with hin oz

eplacenent, is net srular and nowhere near as
Sylvia t Ure him but will

otaay go cn working as his secre = for the tine being.
peda
2 the office -= chiding

ed, "it's not true, Ian
< interested in Party members

nie ter ae a Carunist, Sylvii
not a Stalinist and I hava never
chip. I don't accept the Party line ani by talking this vay you
.are insulting mej" L-9 thinks Sylvia is a very intelligent elrl.
He thinks ve might be able to rain Ser cocperation by getting a
desirable nals next to her =~ she is, acconting te L~9, "a little
putita,"

Be AZCUE told L-9: "Le they don't give ms a good’ Job in Cuba, I'm not |

SECRET



be

“~“*CARPENTIER, The fii

i.

wn 5
7

ey

SECRET \

going to be uset - I can alvays get a job here in Merico,#

L-§ exhibited a book by Aleidhi2r=ITER (cho is in tom), This
‘book, enti#lei Los Pasos Perdidos, published in Nexico, had in-
side thé cover two handwritten dedications to L-9 -- signed by
ug written when the two first met ~- ths
L-9 had CARPENTIER over to his stndio and

C got a lock at his paintings -- this dedication lauds L-9's ability -

as an artist. :
L-9 shove B his address book -- in it he has a bookurk which:
consists of two-fibbons - red and black — with a swall photo of
Pidel CASTRO attached, 'L-9 likes to "casually" display this little
ites hen consulting his book in the presence of Sxzassy officials.
He says it has a nice effect on thaw

quan CHRD aN

L+9 overheard Teresa PROENZA on the phone (we have the sand*dba
versation on LIENWT) saying that_Anbassador Amast
is coning to Mexico on Friday 8 lov and that she would not be
staying at the Enbassy, but would put up sonewhere outsiJe, probably”
with Dra, HAGINDO. Teresa indicated that all is not well with the
ARNIS family and that this wes a soreuhat scendalovs situations

night be able to make sane capital with firs, Edz, Armas by
tipping her off about the Anb!s dalliances)

A tall, blond American student has been in to soo 2bout’ traveling
to Cuba, He us studying at a University in Mexico City. (This
sounds like the onc who came in to see Joo Montllor recently).

Fe is suspected of being an American agent'-- "Licha" says that
he is an agent for sure, We-was there-on Thursday, 31 Oct.

gue

« "4X E55Iy told L-9 that he soon intends to marry a Mexicans

Jose, Fuxvayas 2.
Me 4 is not happy about being a mere Press Attache, L-9 thinks

Oe

Be Led we

give him “anim
meetings when

this 1s a cover position and that ROA is probably CIS,

Tercoa Pa spent the weekend at CiRDENAS' place in IMichoacan,
She cane hichly incensed that Gustavo DIAZ Ordaz had been
wmcovered as the Presidential candidate of the PRI, Sho said that
LOFEZ Mateos rade the choice himself, Le9 thinks this intelligence
cane directly fron Lazaro CA AS, Teresa and the Anbassador were
closeted for nost of Sunday 2 Nov -- presumably T was filling hin
in on the political picture as a result of her visit with CARDENAS.

Saneons named (fnu) 2iRGUENSCITIA, Reforma 7, Coycacan, D.F, has
recently received correspondence fron the Casa de las Anericas in
Havana.

va

A Chilean artist (painter) naned Buco’ RIN haa been hanzing around
for a visa and the authorization finally cane frm kava, This man

i lived 4n Cuba, is wealthy, Ho is considered as a probable
agent. of the inperialists but the enbassy feels he can be watched =;
closely once he is in Cuba, :

as ina pretty ood nocd, said that his sessions with the C/o '
o" and are a good antidote for the f-clings he has in between
he ds sitting in tis office, or beside the Ambassador, and wonder-

SECRET

i
iN

i
$
4
!
i
‘


aa

Ang hoir ong he can:go on without being discovered and what the others in
the shop think of hin, This was-a good onportunity te inqirs inte the
latter point, and B asked hin to explain just what his posture is vis a vis

: his associates ard ‘outstders who-know him only as a CASTRO official, Ee talked

e ‘for about 30-rinutes on this point, explaining that ne tries to project the -

oo dnage af & han who is "nore artist than politician,” vho is not a revolutionary
type but who believes that"there is a job to be done here, I have been chosen
to do-it, and-I-intend to do it -- wanna nake anything of it7" He says this =
‘works very well -- he enerces as a dedicated, nore-or-less apolitical worker,

who 4s not going to take any foolishiéss fron anyone who gets in his way, and
who, like many artists, may be just a bit wacky. He cleverly nanages to lose
his temper from time to tine with good effect since no-one wants to. ruffle him
too much lest his well-knom “pull” with Fidel might be enployeds

Lu, He was paid 4,000 pesos for October 1963. #

5S. L-9 4s planning to do a painting of CamiloACTeye1200S which will te
raffled off so that the proceeds can be sent to Cuba to aid victims of the

hurricane.

6. He furnished B with a copy of the 3 Nov issue of HOY which carried
the AMGLOSSY confessions, This was airmailed to the PIEFER address at WAVE

1 on 5 Nove
7. Next meeting ~ Open.

8. Problen: It will be more difficult to get L-9 into B's hme in the
: future owing to the recent installation of mercury vapor lamps in Lavras which
‘ 2 Ught the area up alnost to a daylight degree, In view of the necessity to
“sit dom with L-9 fron tine to time to pour over papers and photographs —- as ¥
well as the desirability to have him relax with a drink in hand -- 4 safehoue
would secon to be more-than-over in order, but L-3 is extravely nervors about
the prospect of rcetings in a safchouse. It is believed that a careNdly-
timed arrangenent, whereby B's wife could swing open the gates of the 8 hone

‘ ppetsaut” nay do the trick and enable wz to continue to use the B residence for neetings
we Fane Fan tine to tino, :
Lateetre | haurtuce Fo ike
. ?
Toa ok ‘ % A good exenple of L-9's skittishness is his approach to signing

receipts for his pay, He signs each time with a different scribble.

ie SECRET

ae.


ern Hénisphere Division

Chief. Sn; Chief of Station, JHMAVE
oe apes

~ Contact Reports -- Metis
TER wD RRR ;

PERUNEN LITANIL-9

‘here are attached four contact reports ocvering meetings with

LITAMIL-9 on 25 September, 27 September, 7 October, and & October 1963.

Atvachments:
As stated above

Distribution:

42 = C/WHD w/att
2 = C/SAS w/att
2 = COS WAVE w/att — 7% cor Peek
2 = Files

on afatAe 9s

6O-b 8 fF

$l October 1963

OS MRE MOSS

201 = 329609



‘ aaah 2
: ee g
ms eee re
~ han . a8 Ss
ee Lag >
. Baus ,
feet ae Ta ore
egos
” BO
cea e Piet o
ae é : a8 \y

Hi
5

with

BiG Petal 2,
MIE AMA - PPP





i :
aes . ~ _ =
i net ian : : E
See - : :
0 from
Le~9 gave the Seblening h sto the Architect's
welewhene :



si digindiniath Mites

seating
y here:

veplaced

Zavovite)

raed


eee cp
een eT =
- i aa

ASCE,

geelages™ = good

Dominican president.

w~ Bs notes

no& e:ist)
;



SEnneamminasstscammenmmnanetiee! ceneemema ie niaemamaeed

PRON :
SUBJECT os
2. A nee

* on.5 Octooer *



©:

4

-



8
'
£
e

”

e
6



the day, ard

2 Pw,

fot (see last C2) 4s no

of inforatica oa.
sical layout of the



casarestin
SECRET

Western Hemisphere Diviéion

Citef, SA8; Chief of Station, JHNAVE

Chief of Station, Mexico City

“D contact: Teport - Meeting with LITAMIL-9
RGD CTO :

PERUMEN LITAMIL-9

there is attached a contact report covering a meeting with

LITAMIZ-9 on 13 September 1963.

Attachment
Contact Report

Distribution:
28 » C/AHD w/att
2 = C/SAS w/att
2 = COS WAVE w/att ~Te <-
2 - Files
Jee Ke whet.

CS CoPt

IPA 22206. 26 September. 1963.____|

SASATR TREE Re mows

| SECRET H 201 = 329609



ee

gona

uct © tmmae tare



: ”
44
: ge
: 8
af
gf :
ge &
ar: 8
;
® a



LA “REP: Mii 21849, 31.July "1963 eee

‘17 July, attached: to ‘Reference,

of Mexican descent. If L-9 can further identify the sist
“domestic exploitation section might be in a position to f
_ on this. lead. :
2. Please levy this requirement on L-9 at the next
oppprtunity.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
3 - COS, Mexico City

sS
13

GASsICATIOn,
S~E-C-R-E-T '

ORIGINATING.
TST

loys {3/Mext <)/2—
RES LC

<4. In paragraph 4-(m) of ‘the “LITAMIL-9 contact. report for,
L~9 reported that Luisa CALDERON
has a sister regiding in Reynosa, Texas, marfied to an American

er, our
ollow up

ATE OSPATEED
SEP 1963

RID/MIS | go:



“Chief, Westerh Hemisphere Division

‘OY Qui ose
An ROSE ROOT

Chief, SAS; Chief of Station, SMWAVE

Giter of Sjatton, textes CAty niin wena”

“Contact Reports -- Meetings with LITAMILA9
RETEN REQUIRED REFERENCES, ee

PERUMEN LITAMIL-9

‘There are attached two contact reports covering meetings with

LITAMIL-9 on 14 August and 5 September 1963.

led gos

, Attachment:
As stated above

Distribution:
y= C/MED w/att
2 = C/SAS w/att
Jee 2 - COS WAVE w/att nor tink.
2 = Files

$0 ~-6- Bards

_ 08 cory

HMMA 221lo

cae 7 September 63

SaSSrccanon gS Fe moana

SECRET er 52g



arte “7 fe :
BALE ~ Eft £5 copy $0 -6-SES/3


“she citye



| _ ‘ a
eas : :
Geends é
i (Sen) Giz (ss, : : / :

coer Barbsdos : ‘

Nod





— a

suauior i

La9 also re
courier at
hevees’ oF ov>

eee a fos topageeaee tinny oy
cate 1 of us alftagouncs ta do the rome
propery."



AADAGE ~A20/E PO apn was we Sey ee


emer enehes  SagENONEIE RC GS Aine eel ah ocala cotiaactiaoliat

tha 10,600 pare





Le?

rthalesry

rerasine ta

ru Wi



OO ee ae en anima eA Emly Sa Non inet

- 2 5 -CLASSIFTED SESAGE Ref Zaf oF ~.

; !
On
1 |

PEG, - caliecr, ca/a 4, ct, ci /ors, cific 2, Ft, FI/o,.

3 Doe, , SOD 6, .CA 2, cr
*  Fifinr, a4, 588 8) d0/i fig ADfet"2, s0/NE5 RE

SECRET 6117422 ‘ i
[Jiro Dir wave cITE mEXI 5584 i} Mus 631N9.138 1
ON 31 JULY 63 PEREGRINA ALONSO, SECRETARY HERNANDEZ ARMAS, i

CUBAN AMB MEXI, PHONED CONSUL MARIANG GARCIA MERIDA TO InFofe HIM 7 A

THAT LUIS ALBERY, CULTURAL ATTACHE CUBAN EMBASSY, ACCOMPANIED BY
AN UNIDENTIFIED COMPANERO WOULD LEAVE FOR MERIDA ON 31 JuLyS ACCORDING

TO ALONSO EUSEBIO AZCUE, CUBAN CONSUL MEXI SENDING “SOME tli ia

CONCERNING THE DETAILED SHIPS. ALONSO FURTHER SAID THE SECRETARY
OF NAVY HAD GIVEN ORDERS TO THE EFFECT THAT WHATEVER CUBAN sure

“ARRIVING MERIDA BE RETURNED.

SECRET : :
pe g foot
. ae | a
i ;

|

ty
a Grou 1 :
4

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC OOAN= 1
hy GRADING AND’ DECLASSIFICATION.

Copy No.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER T ile THE ISSUING OFFICE is ee



FOCUSSING. BCHON,

_ Chief, 3D

Chief, Sf chief of Station, wive

Chief ‘of. Stu thon, Mexico’ city

@ Contact Beport/iitontle?
AN RD. RS

PBRLMSN LITMMIL 9
Attached Lerewith are contact reports of meetings with LI TAII-9

on 17 and 29 July 1963.
pil
cre 70
gest etter eas

upline

soved 1
es Sitgeseteatton! S
pf--. 2



re GEOR 4p,
sESTRICTED 10 ith am 30 tag 0 a
MEDAN FOR THE RECORD : :

Lawrence i ‘Barker

t his hews at O815 hours 29 _ :
ane, Pickazo was made on Titers
hereupen hoxe for the meeting. Driveway
Mghts were out and B's car was driven foatas by the door to Bis hone vhere
L alighted and scooted inside, ‘The moeting Tasted until midnight wheal was | .
dropped-on Melehor Ocampo not-far from his hous, The decision to use B's hous |
‘was nade in view of the difficulty of transacting much business in an autonobile
“and the good physical security afforded by the layout of B's hone in Lomas, It |
wag decided that the time hadcane to reveal B's identity to L since a social =
encounter in diplonaticeconsular circles was inevitable sooner or later ==
furtheruore B 4a reasonably satisfied that L 4a sincerely devoted to the antle |
Castro couse and not playing a double gene, ‘The relaxed atmosphere in B's
hone contributed materially to mutual rapport buildiry between L and B, L vas
quite impressed with the many books in avidence and showed great interest in
sone of the paintings and furnishings in the-house, sayirg "Es evidente que 9
Ud, wn hombre muy fino,”

3. L explained that he had just arrived back in Fexico City on the 28th =<
after ‘ah extended trip to Tarpico where he was very successful in stoging on
exhibit. nf Cuban engravings on 20 July and a big affair at Ciudad Madero on the
26th celebrating the anniversary of Fidel Cuartel Moncada attack, We exhibited
a ntciber af newspaper clippings and photographs concerning these events and said
he vas more than ever “in” with the Arbassador for having apensored these tvo
events, He may go to Merida on the jist to represent the Bmbassy ot a necting
of the Jose Kart4 Cultural Group there, After that he plans to rest on his
lanrels ard devote more time to painting, He seexed soneshat concerned lest the

- Mextean Government give him trouble in view of his recent activity for the
Enbasoy -= explained that a boy distributing leaflets in Tampico had been picked
up and arrested, B éxplained that. it waa hirhly wlikely that the Mexican
Governnent would take any action against a diplomat who vas sinply (in their
eyes and those of everycne elae) doirg his duty. It 18 to be noted that L is
rot the corageous type —= he fo constantly expreesirg fears that ke might get
into trouble, thie even when his actions ere those wiich would normally be exe
pected of a man in his overt position,

L, The greater part of the mecting waa token vp in going over a large
backlog of LIERODE photographa. L made the folicvirg identifications:

20/34 = 23 July *Rolly* = Exbassy exployee in
Comercial Department

169/6 = 6 June — Possibly the wife of ARIDNA

gh/32 = 11 Jay Miltredo QONZALEZ, Vice Conaud of
in Tash 906

179/31 = 20 June Nane~? Employee of Consulate, Maxico City.

Get #1 & himKe HE 9 SECRET S copy ‘ se Pe ord,



i
H

> SECRET “

Waiid=2-One of the recently graduated coe
wiation students, now 4a -Cubay

Kaite-? Cuban delegate (nin ‘on’ right 4a
photo) to recent Falaria Congress

Nazié~? Vecican bialerira, good friend of
‘T. PROENZA, visits Embassy oftens

“URGAS = 3 duly Hames-? These three nen are frequent visitors

‘185/16 = 28 June | to the Embassy, L greets then <= doesalt
1175/3 Us Jine ‘mow who they are,
202/2 » 22 July Nane-? Thig ran is a fimctionary of the
176/26 = 17 June. - Cormercial Department of the Embassye
184 {8 = 27 June Ticente ROW, Spanish painter.

198/36 = 17 July Half Chinese, Embassy offictal, believed
192/23 - 9 uly to be named CONCEPCION. (Notes
probably Gacar CONCEPCION Mendoza)

197/23 «16 July Silvia DURAN

206/12 = 2h Juky Looks like Carlos FUENTES although FUENTES
pata is supposed to be in the USSR now.

19h/2? +11 Joly ‘This wouan is the Yogoolavion Cultural Attaches,
186/22 = 17 July Stu de PERICLES FRANGO, oho ie @ Doninican,

201/30 = 19. July —Namoe? Sister of Kionara SANCHEZ of MINREX,
Habana, ‘She 4s believed to be divorced
* from an Americane

177/32 -18 dume «ELA. de GORTART

20L/9 ='23 July = POSTLLO

Lol/? = 23 July

1182/6 = 25 June Emanuel CARRALIO, President of the Mex-Cuban
Institute, Mexican writers ‘

378/21 =19 Jmme Lud TRIETO of Liberacion Kactenal in Yexteos
Girl in photo with hin is with the Meax-Cuban
Institute, hes Silvia DURAN's ald Job.

196/3 = 15 July Sister of Ingeniero TAMAYO, the fellow who wrote
‘the goceraphy of Mexico, Gool friend of Ts PROENZA

2182/4 = 25 “Name-? Coban functiorary out of Habanae

June
182/33 183/173 180/2 Travele often, Is a painter.
179/223 162/12 E

SECRET


DECASTRO who was stationed in Yextod abort.

1S years ages

i i ==
i .. SECRET os
= ao : Widow of a Cubs diplocat eahied FERIANDEZ
ee : : WGfL-= Td

*Spandard nared.LA%GO. CABALLEMD, believed, to be

nef fasion LC of Spant War ere. Ris
i
1

de good friend of Te PROENZA.

+ Caiiadion writer aid wife-— delteved to be named
“PARKER, Were in:Cuba recently. °

Argentine (7) naned PUIGROS who.vorks for
newspaper El Dia, Mexico Citys

lgb/i = 12 July Wife Gf Rogelio of Enbs:
19/2 « 11 July: SOTOMAYOR of Grupo Jose Marti in Mexico Citys

157/8 = 17 May. BORDES @ Prensa Latina photographer in Mexico
201/28 = 19 July City, Was going to Cuba recently, may be there

fi 156/22 = 16 vay Name-? Fixes Embassy oars, mechanio, Has garage
rid aoe — 16L/15 = 30-Kay on Calle Zamora behind Embassy.
Saad 181/19 = 2h June _
s Voiow 176/13 = 17 Jme

weneee" 205/9 = 2h June i
ceeteae 199/2 «17 uly :
1596/8 = 16 May “~, Boyfriend of Xicmara SANCHE? of Minrex Habanae

Is Mexican, Goes to Cuba to sea hers

19L/29 = 11 July Mexican bullfighter named MEDINA.
199/6 ~ 17 day :

16/16 ='22 Jan ®Chevo" == son of AZCUS, now in Cuba,

202/31 = 22 July Raul APARICIO, Cultiral Comselor, and wifte
201/8 = 19 July
193/26 = 10 July

179/3h +20 Jme = Alejandré = Chauffeur of Ambassadors wife &
3178/6 = 19 June daughters

288/26 =} July

1183/4 © 26 Jure

3183/5 = 26 June H

178/31 « 19 Jme Elsa DOBL, violent cnexy of Castro regire,

_ friend of L, Fathor 19 medical doctor DO3AL
who arrived fren Cuba recently and who ray go
back althoush he, too, 1s enecy of resize,
(mura, 12.0111) This girl Je martied to o man

a Jai Alat player who often visite



there.

COMMENT

_dnto the swi in short order,

Add to Para he
177/33 - 18 Jue

10, Likes Scotch Whisky <=

js Pero.no eirven coke pilotes)s

a TCAvELLER”

9. L will probably not be very productive for a week or two if he goes
on the road as in the case of Tampico and, now, possibly, Meriaa, when he does
settle dom he plana to stay put ia Mexi for quite a while and should get back

domed two at Bla hoaes Light drinker,

of tha daytime. Cubana plane on the 26th (this
[tt) told hinat. the airport that he was all
rent £2184, often to Pragna w= waid the

sary of F hso09 gos and signed a receipt. but
* ven a pacudarya for signirg

Be. Explote lead to Dr. DOBAL (nee Elsa DOBAL, above) to see if wa can get
to hia and possibly recruit him for ZEAE procran, L suggested ve might wish
_to approach him but asked that ‘he not be used to make any approach. Says DOBAL
is a enesy of the regine, 1s a well-respected physiciaA in Cuba, rade a lot of
money in the old days, would only go back to held onto what property be has

LOureuen F Barkin.

-L said he had seen this xan at the Exbassy
“several tines but did not mov hin, (Notes
phote 4s of LICARD=1)

ole
SECRET



st Chief o
‘seestet DY VOUR/ PBR!

ION REQUIRED: Prepare Field Index Cards
REFERENCE:  HMMS-3013, 11 July 1963

In reply to Reference it is requested that Headquarters
continue preparing field cards for the names marked for
indexing on LITAMIL Contact Reports and forward the cards

to JMWAVE.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
22-C/WHD
+ “pecysas -tleks Say

2-C/Mexico ~ % Riolonp

ATE TYPED DATE DISPATCHED

24 Suly L9GZUL 25 13

(i awsncanon

SECRET


oe nee A A AR RRA OAL AR SEES HG <b sk eas SS gh a

GASrCaTON

SECRET.

sane 2 ‘Cheify ¥H Division iueannadt ue
‘chief of. Station, KAVE, Chief, SAS oO S

Chief of Station, Mexico City ae

-[araneg
© contact Report/LITAMIL-9
TETGH RE GURED RFTOSS

PBRUMEN LITAMIL-9
There is attached a copy of Lawrence Fe BANKER's contact report

coverings a meeting with LITAMIL-9 on 11 duly. This was the first meeting with

this agent since Clyde K. SHRYOCK turned L-9 over to BAXKER,

. Attachment:
Contect Report

bistrioution:
ip

SiS watt 7 E :
2 = CCS WAVE Watt —7o Sas ; :
3 - Files

i 7 50-6 - 105 3
| O*Searox srroc, ano monner i
HMMA 21943 : 15 daly 1963

CASSIRCAT TGS RUE MUMBER

1
an
SCG, «osecast ! 201329609



yy WL duty 2953 : st

‘ating with LiMn.

J. Ab sbout neon WF
with Fre, B ant said be woul
ocain, 3 ansxerat, and it wa ace
y piers us

Parkents hers,
| again ab 2000,
i that

tai hafora coing ea te Tavniea +
andl beea ucteg a wrong aur
ssei about is
5 Like thet.e

prepa
anounted to vas an understandahte ani quite opvians,

atterpt by L te sound out hin new C/> in vitloua »
wished to have his Lice in the hands of 2

rie rare

shal the

a aretasticn of Le
now AYs coppesta tics

vhotion y

vets



l

ema ements nA REAR EF Gain Sica ANA OIA 3S NA aU ai LAH

rations Tor aciten co;
(never nnad tecuwre e cows
0% Mie resort ta olnringit

rel

can eiaestes to Milne tats
or eovar) said," cb pare Eurogean than’ Shryoc% == T ca:

sarience theray?

Athough he haa newar cot
out the nacting a very his

‘mt in ure;
pegind tor 2

6. LU tried to erpiatn bis nae
how he tent rade ang
the Conwlaes those on
at ha felt be bet !

neoation

ning fone}
2 He hoped we would
tant

suecar lod in ¥
not ba

BESLDAP prodblens oe the
nd then te ach like co
"on the wal < but,
soni snon be inva
cos of his oaten
got at the sone ¢
Fidelista, At tis
ean sea that we are

loag wonder tally

ab ore Cpetor al

Dak pers
are never sur. anperrs 10 09
that noeena £
teat he pula iis eto
aneat and adiiact St
associates in

2b we he waz cater

ion maisin sin Ub

co


hia Zomer

Sab Enba!

Be

Mao

lo, atthe
nob metarned to"

har tha sort
Che :

sy

oietr a sate ape:

secape a Nesaman ter @

intellicenea valun esce frost

n% for wie in necting Ly



Division
Chief of Base,
_ Chief of Stz

ony WAVE} Chiefy SAS

Chief of Station, Mexico City
sunseer 7
© Contact Report/LITANIL-9

PBRUMEN LITAMIL-9

Attached, herewith for addressees, ds a copy of LITAMIL-9 Contect

Report dated 28 May 1963.

awd CLa

oe Attachze nt:
Contact Report

potrsntion:
= C/ED w/att
2 ~ C/sas v/att
2 = COS, Mave watt — Te +73
2 = Coz, fart

Erne ANE

il cS cory
- aus euuieaeueu one -C-eSf 5
[icra : -
| HOA 2168L | 5 duly 1963
| eussiieanon rete et
|

SECRET i zor - 329609 Gb



ly

verezvovs paint and we reve to outly

oe

arenes man ea
costs ‘ienn Ceommunist at airport on ?5

BAS* gequect *

Sée MEXT wees. 2e ST

RCITER asked him. if alk the other Cubans could eo
and Le) wae obliges te. tell. her that SINChAS told hi

shorld go but no nention was wade of the others I-93 sais tit

the other Costa Ricans were scheduled y at the Hotel ant
PTER war

over hight. lie said thet GRUTTES that th

allowed +o lenve \the aippott, alte: trausit visas only.

« IQ said thet on 27 Kay €3,

rare nim a list of nanee received from’!

ervlowment in Cuba. SIOPAS told T-9 to

to teers in nind that their political ices:
ce. [x9 war amazed that ST.CRas
4 full into Mannel VEGA's tnliwie’, i.e.

ivantace of this task to sind out ah

Re

IG wil} provide on night ¢

“pt ces personally on dehelf of

ture of herarrival ete. its L-G rointe

“shat CAPPETTAR has tried to inpress 169 wit

arses outside the conrercial rere.

SENET pb



SECRFT

-ieG saidthat while he ware at

were tei

officiale |

taken ie 7

6 | 1-9 daid ne would provide nore detuits on his sister's bacie - ie

ground

out next sbtiedatea negting on 31 Xay 63.
BIRIS

z ad Py Cp CuGAL RE SU
7. Waar ¥ese“tord in? that Suenaventurg

was or “Urorpenice 3s “ye rade this’ re)

9 complained thet he had not received ris ray cheek for :

8, LO aaid thet Francisco ‘a kate & ae! gin,
MBA

him that Exrost

"atripping" of Lmna FARIAS
——

9. Im? said he attended the final serrion of the

ence but was notable to find

and ARRUZA.

» however, that the "rdtis

the only one ceming to Mexico,

2-9 snid thet -he w

re Sane when he_sceg hia, i.e, at orportune rommnt.

mis
‘otros

ginia crutter y oO

fe ote probablenente ga

Rospecaron Hotel kee

siguiente continual

a ’
_ Costa Rica.

See caunpcse ;

ndo Embajaq-
o Bulgaria?



10

Gtitef; “SAS
sae Chol of Base7] a
Chief of Station, WA Chief, WH Division

: (eae : Ure
| Ghiaf of Station, Mexico cary ME.

= of Station, Hexice Ch :

C.. contact’ Report/LITAMLL-9

Uwicrorumen t
JCS 1963 |

PBRUMEN LITAMIL-9 Lec. micro. sea |

Attached for addressees, are copies of -the Sudject Contact Reports

dated 8 May and 22 May 1963.

¢ C.cbe

lard ¢ CURTE:

Attachnent:
As stated

Distribution:
*2 = C/SAS ,/att

2 = CARD w/att

2 = COS WAVE w/att
2 = Copl w/att
3 = Piles

c utfad 7e

Lo oe |

DSPATCN SYMOL AND NUMBER

IIMA 21657 ! 28 June 1963

‘CLASSIFICATION Fe mune

SE CRET



TRE SUT AL!

Lp eROL Pe
Moca ere €or



arenas af aaa a fe el ont

ees
’
fre flight of 17 ie$ sa ’
; mrovtarnt ded darceroos Vorw-nirt + :
i

the gerk. Re o

was the Cultural ats



grove to outlying erca mh
Diner 2115-22157 .

Vo: Zapata as.

i. DELAYaA, fru has replaced Francisca "

end taat

reetéra of the IMCRC, 4-9 sais that SELAYa ie very youn,

ne with her shortiy:- before he sew me. (1-7 reportet sre-- .

t CALVe's reason

viously thet Tenia ZELAYA replees iG).

for resigning was beceuse of her studies. ¢ provided-

by _L-7.

ae
RE Supt AL?

On the mornirg of 7 May 63,

called 1-9 to his office ané
LU Atle :
Rr sasiean Conmunist

TJ called a nunber

told thet DE CORTAPT hax

this ad

at
VN se

wt ree

ress ane DE GCATARI

ig thet EES br rid

STARI at tha t ti

ete he would pred

re she arrival of Joagu



on

|

Rin ct 0400 but he did n't show up, 1-9 aaie thi

came @

wn stairs’ at 0530 to relieve hin/

1-9 seid that while ke was in. I

passport in addition, to his @ip. na:

raf ontained the passport and was telkine + » the lat

he got a regular passport. arzed hin if "Conehite"

ct

mt Ho but

PERNAMTEZ had told him te ret it, an? I+9 tobé > vndér=,

stood thst all diplomats were to have two passports to Zacilitate travel |

if neceesary.-. ROA did not push the qesue an Interesting to

note that ROA was aware that 1-9 had reedived other passport, Le. rege

eye (van SAE — H

nioX:3 Ar Or:
. . CE. SEE TEC CUO -Pty
vied to arrived on 8 kayo. a

ular.

6. L-9 reported that Meria i

é there vas flichs on &

2-9 said that he kad net he.

y proxy) is.

here is, 1-9 sais
in Hiami should have info of interest. his trother:

Sie vill te living

(Leene]) will get ac much énfo ee panethle

°
a
w
a
”
ny
e

at the home of Leonel until she ¢

acan about a week aco, 22.

7. 4.9 caid that while at

th nic

he, enorosched

av Teot ean on

a SIE MEX ICS

-§ provided thea ttac



VELES -

; 4 : tr i
: JOSE MARTI 1, PERIODICO A VARIAS VOCES
e Sadie ip Mies "20,00 hs.
ever : nk Tone : BE Guncain

[eotosta ivanr2)



ey Cor)

Pe contact noport/iite 19

i
JUL 5 “1963-1

pec. MIERO FEM

PSQUMEN LITAMIL-9
Attached, for addreszees, are copies of Subject contact reports dated

20 June, 18 June, and 20 June 19636

wor T

~ REST ai be §

Renoved from Progegt / pele

€s Classif? St En Hes
JOBEGCE ~ x.
Box: <> | Fotary~ ©
pe
— Attachments: 0 oepy
As stated

_Bistrtpution: H
4 7 tee w/att watt 5 HE UFC

-c PETES i poe eee
2 = C/wKD w/att ee IN st lan
3
euypt Ft SAS fesse. : at

Sek. yes fy

Gre on Sri ane mE

oar

BOA 22635 8 dame 1988 ae

aneieae nore more

SECRET = 079



in Me deo» and: GAPARA gave ni eyiiss on

CARARA gave 145 hie telephrne ‘niabers wide ie es follows:
45-26=40.

occ. Cuban diplomat to Ie¥, 1-9 onia that he veriev: REYES has been

ege_aseinges to the Cuban Erharey but is not sure.
MEM’. SAF

te
so Ste she told him she had net
e she he war in Guba recently, arong

3. i-9 seid he- Bet Be

sev ral Cuban

‘ther, Lisanéro 07:

Teresa PROENZA told 1-9 that phe was wit Gral Heriberto CARA

ane

4

in Veracruz recentisy.

i Sierpre article reads aien ¢ the

Enton Internecional ge Arouvitectos
(varia) elicip.La Habana para dede VIT
Congreso 26 3 de Cctubre, Tema "Ia

Arquitectura en los paises en vice de

desarrollo" = See Siempre 12 Jure 63 fs
further details.



@ Cuban Ecbasey EXE for

S opinion that neither,

Unrow Inte ICHAL DE ARQUITECTOS (Parte)
eligié Ia Habana para sede Vil Congreso

28 al 3 <e. Octubre. Tera "La srquitectura
en los pafees en vias de desarrollo”

(datos complementarios Revista Sienpre
Junio, 12)

yICEITE ¢
Bel. 45

neo eatuve
con Grale

Sere Pree
Veracruz

atork

Jara

conse a de arguitese LITAH IL-9
thaas Rev: eet

te leas graves: de Pro

| Sienp’ nando penitez .

i

\

$e50
Conte oy bunes Ex
uuba Po: ppheaees vere

cpajada de


: Qn, 16 June -63,°I met EITAMIL-9 at the ucual

2¥ous point ané ee drove to an outlying district of. the city,
where we held neeting, HO SECURITY PROBLENS NOTED. ‘Times 2300-2600.

7 Buban delegates ie. an the PAO ‘Senter arrived: in ere on 17 Sune
634. I+9 said that PAZ told him that he had been: in Mexico in

1957 and had met a Costa Rica who later died in an automobile
crash. eceonatns to PAZ, the Costa Rican was 2 red hot CASTRISTA. -

3. 1-9, after all othera in the Cul eapnt Eabey had refused to help

cer Upar: SYSTATS
Enea XcasTR0geMLonELt get several pees Of cedieine on the plane,

was able to convince the steward on the plane to take the boxes.

AZCUE, Jorge ROJAS, "Nico” GARCIA among others were in volved and
did nothing, stating that it was strictly against orders tc put
any more cargo on board the plane. GARCIA who was supposdéd to
have helped’ Ena SASTRO disappeared and could not be ‘found. I-9

wreetd that Emma cast 0 was with her huaband, "FOfo" GUTIERREZ ,
Orquidea PING and Odilia PINO de CHAUNONT.

4. The steward on the plare on 17 June 63 told 1-9 that: the Bri~
tannia which came in to Mexico was completely overhauled in

Cacbridge England to the tune of $2,000,000 U.S.

, Se On 18 June 63, 1-9 took a letter’ to the secretary of_dose.

F er Cue, AE Care
Sf GORCST @ Fo! @ for GORCSTIZA. The letter was
HN \ given to 9 1-9 by Bueriéventura REYES Acosta who told him “Tenga
‘guidadsGon et esta carta,es para GCROSTIZA". ‘The letter came in

on the 17 June flight and 1-9 believes that it probably hes te

OAGKS
——“golwith the new Cuban Amb, Joaquin HERNANDEZ de Arcas.



8.

9.

wb.

‘re’ an invitation to Cuba ‘from Raul ROA.

1-9 ws to the

following addrese: Paridma 1009-13, w
i pena 1-9 _ not find ARAIZA Vazquez by
who told In9 that hie father,

gon Jone ARAIZA Munoz or Mu
a Colonel +: W88 presently living in Torreon atthe following
address, fa\z aduria Ni} iter, Palacio Federal, Torreon, Coshe
The young ARAIZA said he would write his father soonest but

he mide no statement as to whether or not his father would
accept the invitation, The youhg ARAIZA 1s also a chess i

player. Young ARAIZA hangs out at the Club de Ajedrez on ie
Insurgentes’ KEKE Sur 219,

I-9 reported that Eusbbio AZCUE's wife brought in many boxes
from Habana for De J DovAL, father of Cuban girl in Mexico and °
antiGCASTRISTA, DOVAL, who is expected to come to Mexico soon
1e reportedly returning to Cula but L_9'does not believe he .
will return. DOCVAL'S wifa is in Mexico. L_9 is amazed that
AZCUE is helping the DOVALs who are definitely against the
Tegime., (CODMENT: See pregious memo re DOVAL's daughter who

visited the Babassy a few Foner agore her Rather's case.)
rn & meneel

1-9 reported that srcenia¥Eiras, hele ae feverishly

f0F 8 new site for the txcec, He said on 14 June he was with .

" CANARA and they were looking at a place on Reforza. Upon

entering 1-9 recogn ized the owner aa a friend and whispered

to him in an aside not to rent the place to hin.
L-9 proVided the attached IMCRC prorpraze.

PILE: LITAMI~9


NE MARTI

feces 21 de juni
Ciclo Raoul Walsh,
ron con las Butas Puestas (They
). WAS

roxio 63
[corsa susnez}

ony Quinn, Charley Grapewin,
Eleanor Parker.

nentarios de Carlos Monsivai

MEXICO, B. ¥F., 1963

cosuTe bua cree:

¢
Se
é .
aR & .
ny o &
: Se eeye ha
ee ee
: Bigs {Sg ige iii s
pe a eco Od eer :
: BITS tTe pues ts
fen ieg toast & : :
ay 123 lok tk 18
gteam ist isd: spe
Bt fe" 165 182
Stosids tcer1ets
3 ige tod | oo ! 13
Sig resi saig! :
2 Io Sreiolo i sre :
cae 7d Ae ees
a 82 bE wh 2 &
, A 3S a od Ld -
aa a ny ba
eee orete 2
&

!
i
i

.


alti p feo O° subgeets Litam, 9. ee i
: yoo 8 ga 8e suiie 654 Ertatttes 5 cated #8 “report

. that “ne  Urgenthye. ‘He said'as. ‘early ‘as possible.

“'" "of meeting wae’ 6b dulled * for 2030. ‘Tet 1-9-at the ueual: réndez~

8’ pot

i ana ” aveve to ‘ aorienaa afea of tre ot!

” PROBLEMS KOTED. Time?”

skied hin whether he, had delivered it and added 1t wae exe
te ae ". °® de Presidente. a Presidente". :
2. 4-9 reported that the women whom we have not been identify end
who works in the Consulate showed up at the Consulate at 0945.
fine bred dog owned

TIS OG
mba en GARCIA

3, 1-9 eaid that "Panny" a &XRKROOEOON
re

. by_Humberto,
went to Cuba is lost. JORRIN said that he got out of the gate
and ran ster a cat. 1-9 believes that GARCIA should be told

that his dog was allowed to get out of the yard and ran awaye
He said that GARCIA was very fond of tne dog and will be upset

when he hears they lost it.

4. I-9 said that the old homestead of Jose KXRTI which was being

* considered as.a possible site fot the IMCRC is occupied and ia
"out" as faras the IMCRC ie concerned.
5. I-9 said he received his checks from the Cuban Govt, that they

had been delayed in Canada etc.

6. 1-9 anid that Cubana arrived about 2200 on £9 dune and did not
leave Mexico until the evenirg of 20 June. He sid a Cuban dip

arrived on this plane en route to Throntoe

7. See attachnent/
TAMIL-9


Ga aie ab Ea ihe Sis

ot: murgls and oct putes
-I+9/as the mar to do the debe

. then procese to: “raapieo where ‘the- Liters. ain bi uniosaea: oe
They will then b e put aboard a Brazil ian ship and teken to
* Rio ‘De Janairo, where theywill be exhibited.at the BIENAL,

SINOBAS told I-9 that he should stay in the areap i.e. Veracruz
and. Tampico until the ship leave with the itexs on board. They pa

XRHHE murals will leave Tampico eithe r the lst of the 4th of
July 63. 1-9 was asked to Teave. for Veracruz as soon as possible.
In véew of ‘the above, “it was necessary to introduce Bob
Shaw to I-9 later on in the evening. A meeting wae scheduled for
2400, at which tim om a to I-9} and contact énstruc~
tions were arranged, 71-9 then reviewed Pe general terms his posi-

tion re the Cuban Erbase personnel, hisopinions on the Cuban situa-

tion in general and on personalities in ‘the Cuban Embassy th partic=
The neeting ended at oso,

/ a

is
a
Lee “Rodente oxs

ular...

23
Home & 5
2 es piel eae arte)
B : gs 8 : i
> Qe a 5 rr) PILE? LITA‘ IL-9
3 eet ee eee ea)
nae Sh08 Fran Bera
H eB ier BES. Be
' pose | MwIiot ot od
! ree rg fis iol és
H poe PEI ot et ons:
H H Per ores) spew |
i H ores 1B a
' ' H ts mice i
1 H 1 ‘ ere re 1
i H 1 tot 1Pe B
H i ‘ ferme iy
' ' folie tay 5
Be $ :
8 8 »o B
B ii . ve
o oR o@
6 8 & &
oH =



SECRET -

HOU 22606

Chief, Special Aifatrs Staff” ans ,
Chief of Station, | Mexico ‘city Marea for indexing.
chief of ae Oiiet of Sutton, WAVE) Chist WD <

PBROMEN LITA eae,

Attachéd, for addressees, afe ‘copies of Subject’ contact reparts

dated 12 June and 17 June 1963. +
\
}
\

CUR’
Attachnent:
As stated above
Distrioution:
V2 = C/SAS w/att
2 = C/HHD w/att
2- 08, UMUAVS, w/att ~ + >
a ,
3 = Files DATE TYFED «DATE DISPATCHED
ae Fie 21 June 1963
b: 7 :
Mites =O an DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HELA 21608
FILE NUMBER
@ a

Cs coPY



city where mtg wai helé. 10 Sic: SSNY PROF!

2.

3.

&

v
jas
[Ba §
ga &
gy
{= a

: Oh-16 Juve 63, Z met LICAMII-9 et

due 6%

Fenéesvore point and.we drove to outlying district or the
3 2250-2250.

we = Tim

LIMATe9 repérttd as follove:

ik9 reported that he saw
: with ZX nin,

Z-3 at the funeral éf-Cal POS‘ urtis

Ie5 eehor sd‘ this previo

SLye

denble from Raub RCA, Cubali Fore ip ster, “requested thet.

Wassy in: Yexico, inyiter the ¢:

mpton.kexiean ¢:

fsiel will taxe

wlayer cto fartic¢inate in the chess charpionchfp

signen

aie ‘ b
Place in Haoana in July, Hamon SITOPAS cave 1-9 the as ont y
1

to met in touch with the. Mexican and invite nim, 1.9 will ¢o

and will provide further

On 14 June 63, L-9 told Hels

to discuss the arqaitect

celled nim and she wante

‘AS told 1-9 not to vay any attentisn

with nin.
because she is “muy enrede!dora”, i.e . she fouls up the éetail,

gets things i volved nore than rece

esting comment on the part of $i
I69. E-9 believes that
DE LAMCRA and indiesis

‘what she thinks she is.

who are foirg tocr

Om 1é dune 63, one of the

were

seit



a - » England on 17 Cone with & britannia a

‘fe + crew uns then going to the

ala. Lo vapid thet the pirne that arrived on 24.

Posebed rd tad juct returned free

it tad beer 6

tee Ler

| tans youre

Eexico on 14 dine

fon.re aviation

jbe nut te

netedFolory ‘is extrencly aéute rad cerions.

. ©-9 said thet three or four daintinzs Have arrived fron Cuba
for Am. Carlos LUCIUGA Hevia

them up at the S-hacay. IL-9 w

a arent went to

©, In@ rrovited cop



Le. On 12 Juné ne 19635 TSLLEZ, fn (porsiziy ine ofthe 246

i-9 reported. as‘ followisi- ©

eel

cola ahd “golé kin

: eallee 19 re the Seminario de

that the Ser: iS oF the

Cuban delezates. TELLEZ enié thet ke had received a ieetion

\
from the Cuban Foreien Office asxirr the FAO to request visas

Zot the Cuban delerates becauce they were totable to get
i
TELLZZ said thet the PAO head forvaily requested the Vicar for

the Cuban éelerates.

Cuca re moving victuns inc:
friend to write to Jose 4

and he would activate the

in 59-60, went to Cuba to -.

XZ IOUREEE ACCA PAGA
purely ‘propezanta, I-9 said that
nin (1.9) to pick in the pte:

it over to LOPEZ. 1-9 rot

After 2 good

able to obtain the piety

recall the nanco f th

LOPEZ was unhappy about.

3. LS provided tre



mg in Cuba,”

want to work in

ht ‘be going to Faris.

rd

ve dooght this’

- shack to EROnn ae
Fe aa Sp sit =
Ce on Tl oyne. 6% wrareSfolé ing Fiat he iad
anced Seeca pete cee Cabin’ aba, LeS said the
Ht erranced to song a jexiern Art exhioit to Cub § seid +
\ TROEZZA had previously reporrted this. tao cvorttet $

nice to L.9 ¢
1-9 snid

2 9
g oxS
a
sla
ah °
oo te g
Bed 11 '
red 1 aa i te
i ma tat i iS
.1Ga98 © St i iS
$eoSBo 1 Ai t t
1 Bee 1 at 1 te
i 3d 1 Oe i ie
taoe et al 1 ta
loaio ri 1 a
AG Re bt i t
: FISHER to gd 1 ie
BAdo OS H
As <<
2 pes :
SB
Geos
Sok Oe
aoa
oe



actury 7

+ Cubject:

Cn ll cane 63, "G reported th.

WS Cadado, cuban Chargc, ( wid is very very

to: go’ ard see

with 1-9 since his return) told

at the Foreign Office and ask hin whethir Mexico ‘has any
tole .La9 tH

( Fishing agree ents).

problems re offshoré .

iced. has no fishing ‘agreements becaure of

fishing gones etes

On 11 June 63, Guillérie tnu eciled

5 1-9 ansirered the phone. VACA tola L+9 to’ tall Gvillerno |

eee | end to-call on 12 dune 63. (CC:

hat he had not seen the veople yet but-planned to see then

@; This one more Vida contact

whoré identity is not known.



ap ee nn eR TAR aS

Sharon

SECRET

: : SNE
<_<inief of Station, Hexion Cxty. ae Sc

Ceauie paport /iTTANTt-9
aigiaeS ROTC

fine ure

PERMEN LITAMIL-9
1, Attached, for addresses, 1s a copy

4 June 1963,
2, Request Headquarters advise Station Subjct's 201 File Xumber, 1°”

Attachnent:
Contact Report

Distrjoutions

2 rr ofsufate

2 CARED: w/att
2 = coa,L___} w/att
2 = COS, WAVE, w/att
3 = Files

Ti



i

~~ HOT SUITABLE FOR MICROFILMING:

1.

2.

reid meeting.

az 7-9 rerorted ac

C440 all te suey ACTS
On 5 dune 63,

art mat

to the Centre
‘then, went to tot

caHDozA’ gave

io said thet Wru,’ a Pexiern real estate arent, was at -  ~

a new site for the I

the Snhassy cr "C. CAMARA,

+ 32 yerrs olé, well Are

according to °-%,
looking. AS 07 1-9
lieves that 244

I-9, who has

volved with ©
$cc rpbocieeteeeseeeease
fo: Antonio ¢

he expecta te =>



to a trip st. +

Pinna: eae

paace, I vl

8. L-9 rere

Veracruz aré_-

rer LLAGOS®. :



CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE ss, a

z ri wOuTING
SECRET. Scam
aa nEECREESEREnIGaEEa

10" JUNE * GFE IN'CS FILE NO.

10+: MEXICO CITY JHWAVE
"FROM: DIRECTOR. © Beer geet maa

© CONF: wi

NOt opp, ci, C1/OPS, CI/OA, Fl, FI/INT 2, SAS 8, $/C

To MEXE INFO WAVE CITE oR 45979
_ LYTAMIL ZRPRIMA :
s
REF: MEXY 4786 (IN 49112) i‘

1, HDQS HAS NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFO ON MAURO
FERNANDEZ UGALDE, ALFREDO NEVER AVILA, VICTOR RUIZ, AND EDUARDO
OLIVERA, ONLY TRACE EDUARDO PINTOS MIMO IS HMMA 12495 DATED
27. MARCH 59 WHICH STATED-SUBJ BORN 4 MARCH 40 IN STALINGRAD,

SOVIET UNION (SOURCE LIEAYAX).
2, HDQS HOST INTERESTED IN POLLOW UP ON REF REPORT,
PARTICULARLY FOR POSSIBILITY OF RECRUITMENT OF ONE OR MORE
IXDIVIDUALS IF APPLICATION FOR CUBAN EKPLOYMERT ACCEPTED BY :
CASTRO REGIMB, i
END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Ret was intel report on above-named individuals*®
application for employment by Cuban Govt.

8AS/E0B (by_phone)

' 1 SAS/#0B) (by phone)
aaLe ne
\b: :
oa, cooncrwarine orricens [oss

for M. BBITTEN

‘3
Queens icaring
“aveicea

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN In ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. baneiact


A AL Ae RO AE EE SR TE OSTA ent Ld BSNL SI NAA ig pA RANE Sat Do SS

inFO

“TU AeTION:

"ROUTING

mo ei ee
+ pop, $00 6, DoDS/L, DODS 4, CA 25 CA/PEG, CI, C1/OPS; Fl, FIZINT.2y RIAN,
. ce 8, We 4, SRG, SAS 8, S/C 2 :

SECRET @518382

“REPS! As a3 (7 SOS22):

‘
‘

INFO DIR CETE WEXI 4872 * BUUN IES f INS3554

B 128 (7 $33.55)

c oss (I) 13288) | Una
1, MOONEER A. KHAN, BRITISH OFFICIAL PP 469625 LEFT MEXI FOR HAVA
adis teperted dy Meri 9893
UTA CUBANA 4 JUNE 63. CLIFIRE 2/000 [*mLeluetsy deported Ly Meri
eae ; : a.
2. ON MORNING 4 JUNE 63, RAMON SIROBAS CASADO, CUBAN CHARGE

TOLD LITAMIL*9 (B72) WAKE ARRANGEMENTS ACCOMPANY KHAN TO ARIPORT

AND MAKE SURE HE WELL ATTENDED, SIBORAS TOLD L-9 NOT PAY ANY ATTENTION

FACT ME POORLY DRESSED AS HE "IMPORTANT PERSON". L-9 PICKED UP
XHAN IN TaXt aT HOTEL FRIMONT WHERE KHAN LODGED OVERNIGHT AND WENT
ATPPORT. KHAN CASHED TRAVELER'S CHECK AT AIRPORT FOR 190 DOLLARS U.S.
L-9 INTRODUCED KHAN TO MARTA MEDINA CUPANA STEWARDESS AND TOLD HER
TAKE GOOD CARE KHAN DURING TRIP, WHILE AVAITING PLANE KHAN TALKED
SOME TINE WITH BRANKO NILJANOVIC, YOCOSLAV FIRST SEC.

3. WHILE aT AIRPORT KHAN, ¥HO SPOKE ONLY ENGLISH SAIDr
CZECHOSLOVAKIA GOING PROVIDE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY
WHICH GREAT BRITAIN REFUSED PROVIDE, SOVIETS OFFERED SUPPLY FOOD
STUFFS, SITUATION PRITISH GUAYANA DIFFICULT. SAID PLANNED STAY
MaVA POUT TWO WEEXS THEN GO MOSCOW, FIRST TIME HAVA AND HAS NEVER
ROPE. KHAN QUERIED Le9 RE AVAILANILITY CUBAN PILOTS aS

GRADING AND CLCLASS HT TR AT tun,
ICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy No.

PEEN

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFF



WO nnn eetennerneenenn ay tie emenelinnnng ir taka Lata SSCL



”  OFRECTOR

ACTION: gas 8 :

‘MO +: “ppp, ccs 2, -WH 7, $/¢ 2

SECRET #421a7Z . nae casein

_.. WAVE INFO DIR CITE NEXT 4857 Gea treaepanCe :
TYPIC i z
REF YAVE 9862 an Yyeunt) ia
KNAPMAN ETA WAVE 5 JUNE GUEST FLIGHT. Coan :
SECRET sae i ;
Be He) rage Vel OS ce

c/S COMMENT: *KNAPMAN ETA REF CONNECTION GUEST FLIGHT 29 MAY.

GROUF 1
HH EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GREDING ANS DECLASSIFICATION,

REPROQUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.



a

chief, Special Affairs Statt-
wea" “Chief of Station, SHAVE
:. ~Disitgian

“Chief of, Station, Mexico City |
a Reseeeeen Gperationes rv eve IC
TETANUS SERENE .
" Aotion Required: Disseminate appropriate items; this 1s a compliance with
t reference; index all asterisk names,

Reference 2 DIR 401k

Enclosed as attachments A, B and C are the results of the debriefing

of LITAMIL-9.by Edward D, Knapman,

Attachments:
A, B, and C -
oS CoP

Distribution:
~ C/Spectel Affairs Staff w/atts.
2 - C/TWAVE w/att, —
2 - CAED
3 - Piles



oa : :
nee
oo Comoncnonm P45 £ Ed
TO: Chief, Spécial Affiars start - Htan2ies.
: INFO: Chief of Station, JHWAVE & June 1963

Chief, WH Division
FM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Operational /KUTUBE/TYPIC
Debriefing of LITAMIL-9 on Trip to Cuba

Enclosed as attachments A, B and C are the results of the debriefing
of LYRAMIL~9 by Edward D, Knapman,

Willard C. CURTIS

eee eee ee ee

‘Attachment A

1, In compliance with DIRW146, Bivard D. Knapman was dispatched
to Mexico City fron JMWAVE to conduct a debriefing of LITAMIL-9. cssee
the debricfing «ese. totaling eight hours on the nights of 29 Hay,

31 May ahd 1 June 1963.

ee ee ee ee

Attachment ¢

Operational Intelligence

8. Victor TRAPOTS Mateos ~ This zan's acst interesting operational
access. 4s. througn his daughter, Irina TRAPCTS de VALDES, who is married
to Ramiro VALDES. The prospective fruitfulness of this entree diminishes,
however, as the facts are laid on the table. For one thing, though anti-
Communist, TRAPOTE is still a friend of Fidel Castro. L-9 said that he
ghelterdd Fidel in his hone during Fidel's exile in Mexico, TRAPCTE, who
was born in Spain, is about 58 and apparently more interested in his art
(seulpturing) than in politics, TRAMTS apparently has no intention of
going to Cuba permanently. L-9 says TRATCTS has made np comment concerning
Rarire VALDES, but he apparently has sugrested that Irina is not getting
along well with Raniro, L-9 described TAAPCTE as of mediun height,
solidly built, and in good physical condition, His daughter is a tall
attractive blonde of about 25, and has a rather rethring personalitye

L-§ could cone up with no means of developing an operation against VALDES

through these entreess EXCSRPT MMA-21475 4% June”



ee Mexico City. from JMVAVE. to’ conduct a debriefing of LITANIL-9. Knapman
7 7 ived ‘here 29 May 1963 and conductéd the debriefing at three sessions
: Jv “totaling eight hears on the ‘nights of 29 May, 31 May and 1 June 1963,

2. Attachment B 4s largely positive. intelligence while Attachment ¢
is basically of operational interest, The intelligence debriefirg was
conducted on the basis of current and past intelligence requirements lists
available at the Mexico Station. To the extent feasible we’ attempted to
pinpoint ultizate sources, but headquarters will note that a sizable part of
the information provided was based on personal observation and impressions,
Headquarters should keep in mind that L-9's perimeter of access was the city
of Habana and that he was exposed prin¢ipally to bureaucrats who are identified
with the regime, We caution headquarters on this rather obvious roint, per-
haps because we were exposed recently to ANANOCK-1 who has been living deep
"in the entrails of the monster” in Oriente and who had a different view of
the temper of the people in that’ area fron that given by LITAMIL-9 for

Havana,

3. In attachment C are the answers to a series of questions of operational
interest which were posed after a thorough review of the LITAMIL-9 operational
file. In some-cases fuller biogrephic information can be ootained from L-9
if and when required, 1-9 was most cooperative and understood clearly what
the debriefer vas looking for, In most cases, however, it 15 not probable
that L-9 will be of great help in making operational approaches and pitches

because of his present position.
Edward D, D. bey ———

SECRET

fuel /& Noa areas de BO-6-fosfo


MeASHLMES ]
JUN LT 1968

MICRO. SéR,.

“| Tater2igence

1, Subject had nothing meaningful to-add on disaffections or

realignments as a-result of the October crists.
s iaeae

2, With regard to internal friction within the GOC, he said that
there is considerable criticisn of the "old" ¢: ists by the "new" Commmists
and 26th of July, He cited the case of Felipe’ RA Matos! criticisr of
Joaquin GRDOQUI and Nicolas GUILLEN (previously, reported) as cases in point,
By and large, the new Communists and Fidelistas are grabbing off most key
position in the government bureaucracy, Fidel Castro is still the principal
leader of the Revolution and both the PSP and the Soviets imow that he is
vitally impowtant to them, Source was told by his sister-in-law (Conchita)
that Fidel showed: some annoyance with Blas Roca ope,night when he phoned and
told Rene VALLEJC to tell tnat "son of a bitch” (ge de puta) to stop: bothering
him. Cpachita also says that Fidel 1s somewhat annoyed at his old crony Carlos
Rafael RODRIGUEZ because the zafra 1s proving to be such a bust and that
Fidel has ‘complained that Carlos Rafael frequently doctors INRA statistics to
his ow edvantage, Despite these minor problems with xey,Communist leaders,
Fidel continues on friendly terms with the key members of the PSP,and Blas ;
Roca should be included with ‘Fidel, Raul and Che Guevara among the four most
powerful men in Cuba. Source commented that we mist understand the myth created
by the Revoluticn and {ts propaganda “in evaluating internal frietion and
cleavages, Non-comuunist officials have been either brainwashed by propaganda,
are etill blindly loyal to Fidel, or else have no pluce to go, _in the
final analysis, the cleavages are superficial and of ne great mom am

——

3. Source had no detail on the formation of the Partido Upico, He com-
mented that the PSP view PURS as an attempt by Fidel Castro to absorb it and
that the PSP consequently has veen cool to the idea,

“&, Subject was questioned on mass orgenizations in Cuba, but could
provide no information worth reporting.

5. Source was’ questioned on the positions of Lazaro Pena, Lazardo,
Ramiro VAIDES and Juan-MARINELLO, He had little of importance thought he
commented that Fidel, according to Conchita, did rot hold Lazaro PENA in
high regard, Source had no information on NARIMELLO's reported problems at
the University of Habana,

6. We covered the gamit on counter-revolutionary activities and other
types of resistance with disappointingly negative results,

7. In the military field (number of Soviet troops, training in both
Cuba and the Soviet Union, missile arrivals, hiding of military materiel in
eaves etc,) source could add nothing to the bolas which can be picked up on
Flagler Street in Miami,

SO -6~ 105f5

Enel 2 BOA AIS IS5—


oo

__ 8. Soured.was' questioned atout Chics military activities. He”
angwered that he saw no Chinese, heara ‘no, “comment:
and did not get the Ampresaioa that the Chicous are significantly active in

"ay Field tn Gabe, epee : area ae

He aid that to his eae 8 Soviet technicians weré getting along
well with Cubans, but he feels- that the Cuban people view the Soviet with
detachnient socially and have very little to do with them,

10. ‘Source was queried on any comments he had heard concerning a
GC desire for a rapproachenent with the United States, He said that
he Had heard nothing specific, but that he personally felt this was a
prospect’ frequently considered by Castro,

11, In view of Sources excellent sub-source in INRA (Conchita), it had
been hoped that he would be able to provide some valuable information on
this organization, Actually, he had little to add to Conchita's comments in
regard to Fidel's attitude toward Carlos Rafael Rodriguez. We asked for |
Conchita's evaluation of Carlos Rafael, and received information which has
many times beer forwarded to headquarters and need not be repeated here,
Conchita made no seaningful comments on the effectiveness of Soviet and
Satellite technicians assigned to INRA, (See also paragraph 5 of attachment
B concerning Fidel Castro which may be of PI interest.)

12, When esked about the principal reasons for industrial difficulties,
Source said that he heard universal enmplaints about the need for spare parts,
He could only pinpoint the transport ancustry, He had no specific information
on how some U.S, zanufactured spare parts were being received, but commented
that Canada might be the source, He could give no specifics and said that
all correspondence oa these matters is closely.held and encoded when cabled,
He has had no access to such information,

13. Regarding the rationing system, he said that it 1s working more

-smoothly now than a year ago and that crumbling is less now than in the

past, He said thet things are better organized now and that he saw no desper-
ation because of food or other shortages.

14, Source satd that he had heard of no significant increase in diseases,
though there was mich cosrent about cases of gastroenteritis,

15. Source had no information whatever on the export of the Cuban
Revolution and oa the training of revolutionaries from other areas in Cuba.

16, Regarding diplecatic relations with other Latin American countries
and Spain, his understanding 1s that the GOC wants no more breaks and is
especially interested in raintaining the tie with Madrid since Spain 1s the
other country and an airline link to Europe,



* there is sore stability a

up to their responsiti:

a

Source said -that,

e Civil. and. Foreign Service:

17, With regard. to’

wheeling’on the part of subotdinates, but ‘now the chiefs are "expected to face
és and the competent must ‘carry the load for the
‘majority who’ are! incodpetents, We comiented that this was not a phenotienon
absent in.other public services arid: tried to flush Source out on the quality,
loyalty, and: efficiency of the services, He said that loyalty is increasing,
quality is .cireumscribed sericusly by insufficient academic preparation and
Job training and efficiency’has increased in the past year because of better
discipline and improved administrative practices,

18, Subject had nothing of consequence to add regarding the. organization
of the Ministry of Foreign Relation and the Foreign Service, This subject
will be covered to some extent in the operational attachment to this dispatch,
See paragraph 7 of attachment B concerning the ruror that Armando }FRART will
replace Raul ROA at NINREX,

19, Source had little information on the Church, He said that the

» Catholic Church is not being molested and that relations between it and

the GOC have improved.. Pope John XXIII was viewed with favor by the GOC.
(Note: Batistianos in Miami frequently taxe the opposite view.)

20. Source had nothing of value.on the Ministry of Edueatien, the
University of Habana, the literacy program, the establishment of new technical
and scientific institutes, the quality of education at secondary and primary :

levels,

21. Regarding the United States, he’feels that there is still a furd
of friendship among the Cuban people and admiration of american technology,

. He said that-a few of his friends listen to U.S, broadessts, but he hed

nothing to say concerning their comments and the extent to which these broad-
casts are having an effect,

22, Regarding the temper of the Cuban people, source does not believe
that the ingredients for a revolt exict. He feels that the regime may have
more support now than it had a year ago, or, if such is not the case, that
people are just more resigned to it,



He’ struck L-9 as something.of.a bluffer, and nits
 unidé 8 not Well. liked. In some respects (political) the writer
kney-domething more about this Cuban Communist movie producer than L=9e Re. teulacl wil
Su. Res 325409. Oo Se,
"2. Source had nothing new td add on Ramon PCURNCA, suspected G~ ‘agent,
than is already a matter of record. :

3. With the prospect of possibly developing source's brother, Alfredo
(see 29 below), through their half-sister, eoures Was queried on the latter, but
ve ceased this line of questioning when the learned that the child is only®
lo.
ec

€
4, Source had met Jose "Pepin" *NARANJO when he came to Mexico with
Blas Roca, but he had little of operational interest to add concerning him. He
said that NARANJO struck him as wily; sharp, but intellectually quite superficial.

& 5. We questioned source goncerning Conchita's iapressions of Antonio

MUNBZ Jimenez, and Carlos Rafself *RODRIGUEZ, and nothing of value resulted (see
attachment B for some cczmenté on the position of the latter). Conchita did have
an interesting comment concerning Fidel CASTRO's health. Apparently he has not
fully recovered from a father serious pulnonary illness and she said that he is
much less robust than he used to be. (Attention is drawn to this paragraph in
ittachnent A)e,

6. Orlando #SANCHSZ = He is the brother of Celia SANCHEZ, aud L-9 believes
that he is disaffected with the regime and 1s anti-Communist. SANCHEZ is about
38, lived for a time in New York (ODURUE traces should therefore be available), and
is now in charze of the "Seccion X" store on O'Reilly Street in Habana. His wife,
whose. name escaped L-9, is an American and probably of Puerto Rican extraction.
They have at least one child. L-9 feels that there is very little chance that
SANCHEZ 1g recruitable and he does not believe that he would use Celia for intelli-
gence purposes in any case. As Headquarters knows, L-9 has extended en invitation
© SANCHEZ to visit hia in Mexico. We could, perhaps, push this, but the chances
of successfully recruitins hin in Mexico, according to L-9, would be small. 1-9
said that a sister of Celia, vhon L-9 described as being in her twenties and
married to a formerly vealthy nan from Orfente whose holdings hed been confiscated,
was against the regime ard was about to leave Cuba for Miami with her husband.
L-9 did not know the sister's naze.

T- The writer,asked L-9 vhether he had any contact with Eaydee SANTAMARIA
or her spouse, Armando‘*fAR? Davalos, during his visit, and he said that he had not.
He said that it was widely rumored around the Foreign Ministry that Hart misht
replace Raul ROA. He said that this would really not be a demotioa for Roa since
he would handle and attend international conferences while Hart administered

MIWREX.

SF 3 MA BI 28- 50-6- 1057


nll
sheer, ‘Fina PTRAPOTE de VALDES, who 1a ea to,

FAYALDES:" The: prospestite’frultfillness-of thia-entzee -disitnishes,. how
1: facts'-are laid on the ‘tables For one. thins,” ‘though: anti-Commiritst,,
L-9 said that he sheltered Fidel in
h TRAPOIB, vho was born-in Spain, is
pparently wore /diiterested in his art (sculpturing) than in politics.
TRAPOTE apparentlj~hias no inteation of soins to Cuba permanently. 1-9 says
TRAPOTE has made no comment concerning Ramiro VALIES, but he apparently has sug-
- dae gested that Irina is not getting along vell with Raniro. 1-9 described TRAPUIE
ce “ag of medium height, solidly built, aid in sood physical condition. His dauchter
is a tall attractive blonde of abcut 25, and has a rather retiring personality.
1-9 could cong up with 1io deans of developias an operation qainst VAUES @hroush
these entrees@} Re euwmAT wu Th Sub of aol- 329609 POE Tune 63

9. Source was asked about the current activities of Faure *CHUMON, and
. 7 add nothing eee is already know.

4 10, Abraham *MACTQUSS.- He 1s about 28, Jevish, uas no military titie,
and was forwerly married to an American vhe.has divorced him and returned to the
United States. He is now married to a Cuban who gave birth to a child ia the
Spring of 1963. His parents live-in Cardenas, Matanzas, but L-9 coulé give no
other information on thea, the forser-iife or the present wife. He said that

0-3 would have much fuller. basic information on MASIQUES. His sister, isdie..
*MACTQUES de Roque, lives in Wooster, Ohio at 1653 Smithville Road. L-9 sai’

: that MACIQUES was relieved of his job ia the Ciénaza de Zapata because Ether
oe under his direction vere assisting anti-Castro elenents vhich have since been liqui-
dated, It is not clear vhether./ACIGQUES knev of these activities, but, in any
case, Fidel Castro sacked him. MACIQUES, at the very least, is indifferent to the
present regime. He told L-9 that he would leave for the United States if he could «7
get to see Fidel soon about another job. L-9 feels that MACIQUES may be reerut

Vz ‘but he could propose no approach.’ It should be noted that MACIQUES' ‘access

's limited row (no job) aad he may be in di:

oe “FAR ae1- a7 e.tie,

11. Coutlerac! Mow Antich”- 1-9 said be is abo

ambassador, and aay be G-2, but he had little else to add to our_ present know
Ledge of LECH. Re. contact with Subs ce Jot- BAL UN we KT Sune o

12. LIOOZE-1 - L-9 said L-1 is assigned to protocol in the Foreign Minis-
try and that he spends a sood deal of his time at the airport at Rancho Bcyervs.
L-1 has er!ticized extrenish in the regine, is pro-R0A, apparently strongly dis-
~ likes Carlos "OLIVARES and was lad to see him sent our tu the field. L-9 gave no

fer inforcation that is not already a ratter of record.

a3: Rant SEL RIO ~ He fs about 28, weat about half way throuch medical
3S

school at the University of Habana, is rather short, well-preportioned, and
a bit vnen he valks. He is probably 3-2 and is assimned to the GonseJo lise

._ de Cultura. He is a protese of the Consejo's directress, Editht#caRCIA Suchaca
(see 1b below). 1-9 believes DEL RIO is a strong Fidelista and not a recruitnent
candidate. :



about 63-64 aches “tall, fairly well proportioned, and an indefatigable vorker.
The Consejo is’ now Jccated in the Ayuntamiento de Marianso ard has a staff of
about 25 at headquarters. L-9 does-not know of any clandestine activities 1a which
the the Consejo may be engaged amd considers it basically-a cultural organization. In
saatripe to GARCIA and DEL.RIO, L- Fecgils the nanes of the follovins personnel:
‘ARAJONA (plastic arts), Maritza FALONSO (recites poetry). He said that the
Gonsego, is interested primarily in fostering art exhibitions, many of vhich are
displayed abroad. He méntfoned Aracio/VANSCAS Arroyo, a Hexican employed by the
Consejo, as a contact, but VANEGAS appears to be a strong Castrista. Vanegas :
is 30-34, about 65 inches, well-built, married to a Cuban and a good friend of
Raul Castro. L-9 could come up with no realistic penetration prospects in the

Consejo.

15. Guillermo *GUERRA Matos - L-9 had nothing to add to what has already
been reported. L-9 does not“know GUERRA personally, =

~. 16. Petral+2aLIZcas de PEDRCSO ~ Her husband, Regino *PEDROSO, is a poet
of: some stature and Cuban Charge in Peking. 1-9 does not know whether Regino is
@.Commmist, but he knows :that he was at one tine arrested for being one. Petra
Regino have no children. She is middleaze and is separated from Regino to
collect her benefits in Habana as & retired teccher. She is related to the
Commmist poet, Nicolas GUILLEN. L-9 views Regino as a very slippery article and
did not have any recommendations ccacerning az operational approach. In any case,
there is no real reason to believe that either Petra or Regino would be susceptible

to a pitch.

17. 1-9 had nothing to add to vhat already has been reported concerning
AMIEO-3 and his fanily.

18, He had nothing new on Cee apeaesk Tamayo, previously reported to
. be an inspector for Ramiro Valdes.

19. L-9 vas questicned about the AYO brothers (Armando and Alberto BAYO
Coseaya), old man BAYO (Sen, Alberto BAYO Giroud) and General Enrique Lister. The
only comments he had to-make vere that tke BAYOs are all helieved to be pro-
regime and that the old man is of no significance in Cuban affairs. He knew nothing

about Lister.

20. ‘The subject of Conchita, which has already been mentioned elsewhere in
this debriefins, was discussed at lencth with L-9, Nothing of operational interest
that bas not already been reported by the Mexico Staticn emerged from this discus-
sion. Conchita is still loyal to Fidel and L-9 could suggest no workable operational

approach to her.



“>. a. Resie. Depestre. = Source had. no information of use. : eeesue ‘

22. ‘169: was que: foned abcut rumors ot castro penetration. of KKUBARK
that be had heard during hisvisit, but he could provide no specifics. Ee gave
no’ information. on Cuban intelligence activities that is not already a matter of
record.

23. Agustin 4 = Nothing nev to add except that 1-9 considers this |
diplomatic courter as quite loyal to the regine. a i

2h. kercedes Wiperca - She is about 35, a teacher, single, anti-Comm- H
nist ad lives with her parents on Calle 25, No. 963, Vedado, Habana. She is H
the sister of Ambassador Lechuga and known personally to L-9, but he does not
-believe that a pitch would be practiceble.

25. Ernesto’ *RODRIGUEZ Cue - He is about 30, married to a Mexican, and

believed to be loyal-to the regime, Although he is employed in a very worthy
target area (“confidenciales” of MINSEX), L-9 does not believe him to be recruit-

ayle.

26. perspds - This employee of the, Cuban Embassy-in Mexico plans

to go to Cuba. L-9 understands that Rojas is going to emigrate to Cuba permanently
and does not know wHAt ROJAS plans to do there. 1-9 gathers that ROJAS will be
Paying his own passage. While this at first appeared to be an cperational lead,

it would seem that it.ts simply a case of @ pro-Castro young man wno wants to

ie in Cubes = p01 BONIS Grebe gee Dialernl

: Gr. soequsls/Azmarnez de Armas,’ Ambassodor-designate to Mexteo - L-9 4 tsi ths,
described him as a ran in his forties, but who looks mich yomger. He 12

thought of ta a the Cuban Foreign Service, is very intelligent, and telieved to

be loyal to the regime. 1-9 had no information of operational interest on

Hernandez. Re-comotLauw RE-conTacl uni Sub ot orn Zagees. Det Fact 63 >

28. Dolores de taf (CRA = Source said that she is highly intelligent and
rich Megicen, who is nov-in.Cuba, and is close to Fidel Castro and to Luis
Alberto MCIEZRGE Fabre, a G-2 officer. 1-9 got this information from Conchita
second-hand and was not able to provide additional details.

29. Alfredo, L-9's brother - the writer can add nothing to vhat Station
Mexico has already reported on this operational target, and feels that ve are
barking up the wrong tree if we expect L-9 to approach him. In 60 doing ve would
be trying to undemine. values which probably transcend L-9's basic anti-Cormmisa.
On the other hand, Alfredo is anti-Commmist and dissatisfied with the regime, and,
hile he rejected Grovery's pitch, he did so graciously and told 1-9 that Grovery
impressed him favorably, While the writer cannot suggest an approach to Alfredo,
it is felt that at this time such attecpts as may be made to develop him should te
channeled through someone other than his brother. :

o oyke



Tuasamieatiow

: CONTINUATION: OF DISPATCH
INDEXING INFORMATION

DiesTen syUBOL AND Mor

wre 10-00

18 on indexing.
T is needed.

, Chapter Tif, Annex F, for det)
fire

ae Sée &3,
+ State "Assign® after 201 or IDN.

_THE FOLLOWING RAMES: (ARE TO BE INDXED TO THIS DISPATCZ:

ai fa ako Pewp i

= ic Zbat2

Fake

“oe HE- [° A: Pousen, (Cubs 006! Gout

fecal

REMARKH SAME Av AGOVEL). OTMER:

see blurh above

(len cneen in neaoguantens Trace wanteD.

vex

a Felipe Gy _flalos.
7 Cho d

err

GbA

“one He I A: Navana tuba 000, Cant bhioinl

REMARKS: SAME AS ABOVE[]. OTHER:
Sse bliab above

he creen ur retoourarent TRACE HANTEO,

a Anand FlaxT- Davalos ae

] sex

aa)

> ite Cubs?

ar

Cw by

ae A= A: Mya, Lebo Bet: Cute eb beer

REWARKS: SAME AS ABOVE(—]. OTHER:

see hlurh above

Ct cneex ip neanquanrens Trace WANTED.

Vesé_ “Pepin” AR AUTO

Vaex

aed

GEnaRns: Sawa as AGOvVEL_], OTHER?

see bluel eee

(me coecn iy meapquantens TRACE wanre.

3o8
z Cubg 2 :

cweex [20 @ - ava

one [Prone A Aavand Crba Cee Reet of Fort

hee zc

Cuba?
ECR bial i
sot He PA iMavere. ahs Les

2a Ce

A
cb hienl

ReaaRnd. gawe as abOvEL—]. CTHEAL

See blurs KbOt8



a enna

Dirarensreese NO NO.

CONTINUATION OF DIPATCA
'INGEXING INFORMATION

Iii, Annex F, for de ails on indexing.
201 of IDN #° if a huster is needed.

T. See 43-1-1, Ch
(2. State "Assign® at

FENG NAMES ARE.TO BE INDEXED ‘TO TRIS DisPArca:

anche 2 i Tennis 7
[= Mbp EE :
’ Mavawa CebA oer. 2. oul. ee :
3 Saueh 2. Reportedly POT Con inuans7-

Re. Contacr with Fob «f 401-32.1609, yas OaZ Ewe 3,

(see cnecn iw nesoquantens teace #AnTeD.

thy :
vo
A: Mevana GBA
ReMARKa: SAME AS A@OVEL—]. OTHER:

DnushTex Sub. of 2pm VicTor TrapoTe malzos (20/- 22 ¥ 33g )
wife of Ramiro Valdes (Qo/—m5ces” J, Re. contact wirh Sb. 0k
a IP HEADQUARTERS TRACE WANTED. 20)-329609

Ps Ram, rof Valdes

Foe Gy

9, Cube Cha.

“Pas AE Act wah lobe, ree bul ber

Sub 3 wame mestewed, i de bench Wns, of Sub. of 2o/-
pas df 329607. DT Saaz 62

(Fae Cneck se neavauantens tance wanteo.
ee ee lit
& Wyss |" tobs = ‘Clee

ee “a
Biet |-Tane LP Assan ba 200: bron abhyccat

sex

i

Ci execu sesosuaarent TRACE WANTEO. © z
2 Adin” Macs Agus GE gé 2 “opu I-A
oa E : iv ma
a Cuba? Us. F
Soke" [Tone 2 "4! 1e53 Sai Thelle Rb, prasie®, Obie
Tewanih: tate AB ABOVE. OTHER
Fay by Tir) Ot
(te cartcw ie neaccuaarens Ta ace WANTED. :
y8 Romirok Dé fain - a)
1¢ 35 Cube | foba
aoe Aaepith, Cub

Peeaabee Cobna £8. efticee, Employed AT Cin! Coulse To
3

engen
Ere

Atatin af ne Ade ea Der Te



wee 10-60

Cuatneicatio® r ‘DisParen SyUBOL AND NOP

ter ITT, Annex F, for details on
after 201 or IDN : if a nunver te . {

Sab 's - wRimE need a detnth og Seb. of20/- 3 329609,
Dar Towk 6 3

Colwemcriccwir nesoctanrens taace winteo.

ar AS [ axosms, Aho

REMAKE SAUE AS ABOVEL_], OTHER!

a CHECK IF HEADQUARTERS TRACE WANTED.

is Assu sDal aa LLs _
: ; [abs

¢

emcee |_| 20% @
one” [Trove As Navan ne cc; Diplomatic C z
0 — AVAL! 4 2. RL E

Reuians: Same ad ABOVEL_-

Se Cbub abhor,

sex

(mem coecn ip Heaoquanrens Trace WANTED.

a a i
H Pes Mexcedes i‘Lechuga
Eu6A CA

Aj Calle as5 W2.963 Vedadn Navara Cy

Tennis ee TES ore Ges
[Stn eneon eens, Chub abeve.

lee ¢ ERNESTO § FP Rede iguez. Cae ue TD
joo [Cubs 2 Peuba
“eke Tee P asAaeswa, Cha 000 !Coor Employ sé

i [Rentendvsceasasovel. ormenr
i Se Gbak. abnve
eames MEADQUARTERS TRACE WAN >£O.
| dx Eating! Revas lt
J id L Cuba? :
oe md THA Fees no ae
ite) Inewanag ieee av apevete ereens :
1 : te etad about |

Ez



“CONTINUATION: OF. DISPATCH
INDEXING INFORMATION

x F, fér detalls on indexing.
# if 6 muster ds needed

WXED'TO THIS DISPATCH:

Tet

ainsi J ‘Cuba
. Afavarih Wha we: Gour chhiapl -

Sub, & wanme mentioned wdebazhis Sub. of 20/- ea
DIF Ture 63, :

Co tecncen ir itnoouanrens teace wanren.

crererr as

Tela _

Sone” cE Pa: Navid, (the ce: &,

Sec blurs plové.
Cot cnece ir susearze TRACE WANTED.

3 MARIZA FAL oS

Bos Poe

TE
Cabo Puss
PA Mavaws Cbp ect! Coot. Ex ployee
See blur’ Above,

REMARKS: FAME AS AGOVEL_]- OTHER:

Ct cneew ie weaccuanrens TRACE wanted,

Tsoi ¢
tone Ai Navasia, Cbp ccc: Cbd bul Papleyee

Tauaneh tand na cove] OTHER
SEE bluth pheve.

Cmte cece is neaocuaerens trace wanteco.

Ee Gui Leermo’\ AG fRRA_Alales
A ebei
Fe “a: bya tha

REUARKS: SAME AS ABOVE ormen:

Ser bbal, abevt.

cHecK
NE.

oF

Coby > :

eneen

Jat crecu ir redoauscrens trace eayteo.

Tea “Bal the gAs de Pedrosa ae
th " an LG,

ue Ai Msunun Ob;

Sa a adier.

(That cutien e neance,

renasconcmsnrt teen Aah eal eS daa ARLE Sain ft RON aR al ba a


: mre -1080

Ciasamieation Dapaten BTueOL AKO NO”

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
ANDEXING INFORKATION -

1s See 43-1-1, Chapter III, Annex F, for detatis on indexing.
2.° State “Assign” after 201 or IDN # if a number ts needed.

: ‘TRE FOLLOWING = ARE TOBE INDEXED TO THIS DISPATCH:

fos Do loRes di nhs G Je ix,

Sub 5 wane meslesid mw cebrele bbe B20 H 32-9609, eee ee
Der Tove 63: :

q Cooscenre If HEADQUARTERS TRACE WANTED.

[ees Bbbez! 7 hacer
B50 23

civ =
iH

" j C2
ose [Yee PA: Maaus Cho vee; Chaat LS. bbe

REMARKS: SANE AD ABOVEL_J. OTMER?

Fdathied ns mrokee Colon Luft, Sbrvick. Dek Tex 2 C3,

Cie corer iy neapquantens reace wanten.

Ramen. CeeEWtP
Cai

eoe
— Poe cir

7} | te bay? Cohes
7m wie
tone A. pceah Ohi ES hb oae 2

[aguanns: same as Aeove(]. OTHER

SuspeeT Coban LS, ot hrcer DE ve C

hfe Cli

Te creer ie neatouanrens TRACE WANTED.

* | vex
ear
ener ~ fe
‘She oo :
Taue as abovel—a) OTweR
eee concn ie neacquanvens raace wanten.
* Tex
co de
cheer i
‘hE f
ewines: saue ab ABove(—]. OFMER :
Cmte cnc peapquamtens tract wanten.
* [=
co vam - ie
een a
KE

Stuawas. bau ab pauveC]. OTmem:



Peet ocr eEedeeeesereeneneh Sh An ARE AYE De wie Sani Sn wens Cat Gye oomasilahs

=. = .

Crate ict eport/ittw 1n9--
“ETON REQURED. REFERS

un 18-1353

noc. MICRO. SER.
PBROMEN LITAMILe9

Attached, for addressees, 1s a copy of Subject report dated 17 May 1963.

Fillets

Attachment:
Ae stated above



gue me BS

WOT SUST-SLE FOR HS

be" pani “and be

teld sceting. Fe.





Eres
SECRET

Chie: of Staton IY VES Cases, wHD : Ee
Gist of Statién, Mstico city FE de jeer an

wT
Contact Raport/ITTAMTIA9
aD AROS :

PERUMEN LITAMLL-9

Attached, for addressees, is a copy, of Subject report dated 30 May 63.

j MCRORLMES |
i

1 M8 FP ig03 i

Lace. wicrs cen, |

Vb Pty Ll EF
pecniea trom Projeat 2074 1274/7.

cs Class. ficatiosr 5 “4
ae

Box:

AttactaentsXOT MICROFILMED
As stated above

THO Ty the
Dis ution: —

= 0fsas, w/att
: - cHeDe w/att /

= C/COS, WAVE, v/att
2 = conf} w/ate
3 + Files
So Za [ee Say fase



~ BOT SUITABLE FOR MICROFILMING 'e. 2. os -
30 Key 1963 :

morantun for the Record SECRET -

Subject:

al od, oF 2330. Contéet was

arts was ar

“AN wis introéuced 25 Mr. Creapt; a

“rendezvois point

friend in from ‘tor, te *ircuss.the Clad situation with bia, -

. fartic

rly KEXSUOOULEIEAY his recent tfip to Habana, We ‘then

rove cround the

wrca*of ‘the city ad perked in a quiet

oetirg was, held. NO SEC°RI7Y TROELZHS NOTED. : :
"RESTRICTED TO am -

\ .Ster reviewing brie. the overall picture :

sabe ar cesn by

‘urire his sejourn there recently, Le re-
folie .
S4BT_ACT

ae

Station's suep

ivly vedueed the

: y ware athe Cuban Er.
CHEE opine PENTEL Tymaye

SOT dium sured, Cuber ©.

pr eeeertasrrtectee + Peewerbeer's 4,4) 2 ent ia 1 Pat diet 29 Cwiate

& few days ego,

t 2-9 kad rethine

mm cantain ae at hir house anu renarked

ae ehh -


oe re ae cnr i mn Gg RO A ll ab nh EN

‘me but 1-9 war rot able to recall it. TFAPCTS |

a ehort abi

geceribed the capt.inm Se raving en odd shaped couth. ( COM. EET:

20_kuy 63+
PY bleeR ThgrTre :
were made to debrief 1-9 in detail ‘on

cKS ¢ : ae fe

HOT SUITABLE FOR MICROFILMING



acs amc A al ed dBi Rea lla uth ates a is asec

<1C1/0PS,, C1/1C 2) FI, FI/WT 2, EE Y, WE 4, SAS 5, $/¢-2

SECRET 2819182 iH
Jinro DIR CITE MEXE 4771 -§N48523
PRRUMEN LITAMIL-9 : 29 MAY 1963

REFS NEXT 4786 "CHAD, YU74 9) ©

1, ON 27 MAY 63, LITAMIL-9 fue REPORTED THAT ON 25 MAY

“HaNOW SINOBAS CASADO, CUBAN CHARGE TOLD HIM GO AIRPORT MEET
LVIRGINTA GRUTTER, COSTA RICAN WHO ARRRIVING VIA CUBANA THAT
“DaTE, aND DISCRETELY TaKE MER CUBAN EMBASSY FROM AIRPORT.

L+9 MET GRUTTER WHO ARRIVED MEXI WITH SEVERAL& OTHER COSTA
“pI¢aNS PER REF a. TOOK TaX1 TO EMEASSY BUT UPON ARRIVAL SINOBAS
‘MOT THERE L-9 AND GRUTTER LEFT EMMSASSY PURCHASE SHOES WAIT
‘FoR SINCEAS ARRIVAL. L-9 LOANED GRUTTER 26 PESOS MAKE FINAL
PURCHASE. DURING THIS PERIOD GRUTTER TOLD L+9 SHE KaD Z
TRAVELLED OVER GOOD PART.CUBA WITH MGVIE DIRECTOR FROM
DENYAPK. SAID SHE MET SENOBAS WHILE HE COSTA RICA. SAID SHE HAD
GERMAN BLOOD BECAUSE NAME GRUTTER THAT OF HER STEPFATHER.
ASSIGNED aMB POST

SINOBAS

‘gat JUAN JOSE FUXA SANZ, CUBAN DIP HaS BEEN
|EITHER KUNGARY OR BULGARIA. ON RETURN EMB BY FOOT,
AND WIFE, IN CAR PICKED UP GRUTTER AND THEY WENT OFF.

a. ON MORNING 27 MAY -¥&% SINOBAS TOLD L-9 THAT GRUTTER

VERY ‘UPSET OVER RECENT LOSS HER CHELD.

SECRET
C/S COMMENT: 'INTCL RPT RE ARRIVAL OF COSiA RICAN COMMUNISTS IN MEXICO

GROUP 1
‘OD FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN~
AND OECLASSIFICATION.
CE 1S PROGISITEO



ANLEO-3, PLS CLARIFY |

SECRET

‘



re a a SR NER i HOE APS iB Nt AEF aak Daw ha iC grea aga Seach Laight ate Maarten

MEXICO CITY 5
. - MAY 29 1842Z 63

ACTION wn 8, ae E
Nos oo, AvoPy ca 2, ealeeas caferor, er, cr/ors, ROUTINE
cific 2, Ft, Fi/dy FI/ this IY, Sas oo/t, i cs
aofei 2, 3/62 IN 49112 ee

—
Tocs: 7

INTE ZRPRIMA

REF DIR Np56pe
SUPDATA SOURCE LITAMIL-9 WHO RECEIVED INFO SINOBAS AND TOLD INVESTIGATE

APPLICANTS. L~-9 WILL SUPPLY ADDITIONAL INFO AS HE RECEIVES IT. INDEX,

FILED 291694z
REPORT CLASS SEGRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM HMM 7346 MEXICO CUBA SU@JECT
TECHNICIANS APPLICATIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT IN CUBA 001 27 MAY 63 PADA
“MEXICO MEXICO CITY 27 MAY 63 APR 2 SOURCE PERSON (8) WITH GOOD CONNEC-
TIONS IN THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY.

C/S COMMENT: STATED ZRPRIMA 1S KUBARK FROGRAM TO IDENTIFY AND RECRUIT
THIRD COUNTRY NATIONALS WHO ARE BEING HIRED GOC TO WORK IN CUBA,

"TW COMMENT,
‘DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED
7 PORTION OF THIS SABLE HAS BEEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDIN@
3E_BY THE ACTION INIT.

— | ime To¢s :
| |-—|-— - PRECECENCE
a ROUTINE
[ Tt PRIORITY oe

DATE DISTRIBUTED: BASED ON

RELEASING IWO=

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE iS PRO} Copy No.



eee sna cam nC ANE

oe Cionige oon tate UIE eee"
i i

REPORT NO. _TOCS

DATE O1STR
PRECZOENCE

REFERENCES, we hgri2

APPRAISAL FIELO REPORT NO.
Tnis 1s UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRAOINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

E 1. ACCORDING TO RAMON SINOBAS. CASADO, CHARGE DIAFFAIRES OF THE CUSAN :

EMBASSY IN MEXICO city, THE FOLLOWING TECHNICIANS HAVE MADE APPLICATIONS
MAURO FERNANDEZ UGALDE, MEXICAN; ALFREDO NEVER

TO GO TO CUBA TO WORK:
AVILA, MEXICAN; VICTOR M RUIZ, MEXICAN; EDUARDO OLIVERA, MEXFCAN;

EDUARDO PINTOS MIMO, SPANIARD, (FIELD COMMENT: THE SAME SOURCE
F TERESA PROENZA

REPORTED PREVIOUSLY THAT FERNANDEZ IS A PROTEGE OF

PROENZA, CULTURAL: ATTACHE OF THE CUSAN EMSASSY.)

THE CU3AN EMBASSY RECEIVED THE NAMES OF THE ABOVE TECHNICIANS
THE EMBASSY HAS

2.
AFTER THEY HAD FIRST SENT THEIR APPLICATIONS 7O CUBA,

BEEN INSTRUCTED TO INVESTIGATE THE ASOVE PARTICULARLY WITH REGARD TO

[ oe CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.
SEGer a:
Teamy7acsiT navy | asa ] acs | secon] naa] wie | ave [usta] ocs | ove | oce | oe | cor

iret

1K ossoters previous sormoxs.



|

ag nn mee A
eer re

SECRET

i (When Piled inp

_-THEIR POLITICAL IDEOLOGY WHICH 1S OF THE? "UTMOST IMPORTANCE.” "> -
3: FEUD. OFSSEM: STATE F81 CINCARIB, :

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET ‘ERSSTRERTION — Oi TEMIRATION COMTRES 2



‘ACTIONS’ WH 8 Peete eee q
INFO: pop, ccS'2, "Sas 5, S/C2 : % -

SECRET oerace i ie a
NEXT INFO DIR CITE vavE 9260 ne ee :
DYVOUR PSRUNEN LITAMTL 29 uay ess UN4847g : : :

| REF DIR actag «at
: ENASNAN ETA REF cows

CTION GUEST FLIGHT 29 MAY, WILL
CONTACT STATION ON ARRIVAL.
SECRET

STEO WAVE ADVISE MEX] AND HUS IF ASLE SEND KNOWLEDGEABLE:
CASE OFFICER TO MEX} ON TDY.

¢/S COMMENT:

SPANISH SPEAKS}



aetion: WH anaes
nro; DD, CICA, SAS 5, S/C 2. caren

SECRET 992113

WAVE INFO DIR CITE MEXI 4693 - INeazOR
DYVOUR PSRUMEN LITAMIL 9 23 tisy SB
AY 185E

REF WAVE ent ©3548) .
r : eee

LITAMIL-9 GO SUSGEST ANY DAY WEEK OF 27 MAY.
SECRET

CS COMMENT: *QUERIED RE CONVENIENT TIME FOR WAVE CO TRAVEL MEX!.

‘i GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC OOWN=
GRADING ANO DECLASSIFICATION,
OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED

i

SSUING

REPROQUCTION BY OTHER



eee gett . 7

Chief of Station,

ar
“contact Report/LITAMIL-9

SEO EGERED RNS

PERKS
Attached, for addresses, are copies of Subject contact reports dated
20 May, Ub May, and 15 May 1963.

(CO =-

lard C CUR!

Attacherent:
AS stated above

Distritution:
UZ = C/SAS, w/att
/wHD, v/att

WAVE v/att gel
b watt ie
ME.



a the night

ust ol ken leas int and we

eae with psd acini
STR RRR Ee

= cone

. i-9, of course,

“OR swith DE IA LRA

tee thet isdt Vaca

8

AND

recalled that “Corenit al F:

~ PE


8. 168 said +!

- wet hay 63,
if

eff and wil net return

told Le9 to -eport

siaile® info. pdrticikerly re°h:
SARDINAS aré

tars nho live at the

enaventura 1

peay iruply} Ted pode

to the Foreign Sint

Zsrecho intern

poke re none ct

alto



9 suyrested thot a ltr ke written to her as

ize the CQ'eoulé in

Get clearance ete, that rhe hac to bef

out thas Orbassy reques report for i



o de cuardia toso el
nobae }

hes
+jros™ Coyoican. i t



Embwada eaneri¢ana Mews 4

Sete, Uorin, seliedté ricn

M. Dolores de la Hora-Veg2

: Sinobas, Jueves a lao
{ recktié estudiantes Ch: a
20. ae 7

Gallo

» estuciando
e




-" &
TQ to the Cuban
in extrenely: "shara",: "re

inet

ae

trip of

CASTRC'S abserce f

however, eid that

avoie um

: is now consolidated as they

thet things went on the save in hie abs

ic™ and tnlented" told 1-9

fon Cuba dié not.efveet th

ab

. of Zokerin br ses x
"are ar r booths r 2

very Litt. pes ot

cr





for

Subsents  LICATLRg

zi evOUL point eee

HO SECIRTIY SHORDEMS 2 20—2200°

provivted the Fell
1-9 hed dinner ot +

ger eed asa

vy ge/-aealee



ae meme a laf He gS ail Taal iia

“ aCTIon: WH 8

ino: DoP, C1/0A, SAS 5, S/C 2 eee

SECRET 211748z : teen fee
“MEXE INFO DIR CITE WAVE 8711 :  UN43545 i
DYVOUR PBRUNEN LITAMIL 9 - z Pa

REF mext aaa (pad 7759) ® !
1, WAVE CO AVAILABLE FOR TDY NEXI FOR DESRIES IN

LITAMIL-9

WEEK 27 MAY OR THEREAFTER. i : :
2. SUGCEST LITAMIL~9 CO ADVISE MOST CONVENIENT TIME FOR :

WAVE CO TRAVEL NEXI.
SECRET :

C/S COMMENT: *LITAMIL-9 CASE OFi

geoue

i AUTOMATIC OOWN=
SD DEC. RSS IFICATION.

REPRODUCTION BY OTticR S PROHIBITED

1h
a Rt



~

= ASSIFIED MESSAGE

“a

ACTION: =. wH B
“INFO: oop, SAS 5, oP, s/c 2

SECRET 1723062"
DIR WAVE CITE NEXT 4629
: ” REF al, MEXT 4687 (F7d) * ‘38 ma B89 :
. i : B, DIR 40146X eee : ee
| LITAMIL-9, CASE OFFICER ON LEAVE-UNTIL 26 MAY. SUGGEST TDYER ~~
BEAR ABOVE IN MIND RE TRAVEL MEK.
(rene t fe

INST 759

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED ADVISE RE TOY,

pueden ,

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSIINA OFFICE 18 BROMIAITEA


Fo ne RN NL OE EASE Jen alia in acta dic iAN

7 ACTION: | wef 8
info | BoP, sk6°5, $/C.2

SECRET 1620892

DIR WAVE CITE MEXI 4697

db
| PARUMEN LITAMIL Ay tay Sed
- i REF: IR 40146 #
E j MEXE CONCURS PARA 1 REF.
pst CRET ei
c/s COME! “PROPOSED SENDING TOY STAFFER FOR EXTEN

DEBRIEFING LITAMIL-9. ia

XCLUDE
ASRE,



_CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE.”
SECRET

ENO.

: ; ‘a
hb
unit: WH/3/Mexico. C#

INDEX
oT "6940-2 D.NO two
3 ore

DATE: 14 May 196:

LAAN or tee pee

—

To MEXI WAVE axe ; CITE oR 40146 \
PBRUMEN LITAMIL : (Zp :

: a
1. IN VIEW FACT HQS WISHES DETAILED DEBRIEFING ALL
FACETS LITAMIL-9 RECENT SOJOURN PBRUKEN, AND RECOGNIZING
.

MANPOWER LIMITATIONS OF MEXI STATION, HQS PROPOSES SEND :

TDY STAFFER FOR EXTENDED ADDITIONAL DEBRIEFING.
2. : IF MEXI FEELS SUGGESTED TDY WOULD BE OF VALUE AND

MEXi and bys
CONCURS PARA ONE PROPOSAL, REQUEST WAVE ADVIS:

IF ABLE SEND KNOWLEDGEABLE SPANISH SPEAKING CASE OFFICER

TO MEXI ON TDr.
—END-OF MESSAGE:

c/wu/3_|
wH/cco_{

SAS/EO3.

sas/uoB__‘ as fPateton

7 PITZGERALD
i C/sAS

COORDINATING OFFiceas

/-fA_szenst |

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING QFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RELEASING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING
Orricee.

Copy Ro



Seca anata iF Enel aan esas

simple salesam,
With ono cidld, entire faatly living in the Sierra Heestra,

married
a first class guide bat not otherwise important to CASTRO;

be HAVA 5039, 23 June 1960, reported that GUERRA hed besa
mentioned in the press that day as planning to travel to Pragnes

" g. Bis 3617, 30 Jame 1960, reported thet GUERRA was born
on 1 May 19275 and was called “Captain®s

i

1 creraTcw oe AND MUO

HRSW-11554

CRASBFCATION

GROSS REFERENCE FO
i

Coos


aeons

military staff ho
in Mireuer, Babanss

h. 070-2598, 26 Harch 1963, reported that GUERRA was teaching
weapons handling daily at La Cabana Fortress in Rebana.

3. Abrahen MAC)

a. 00-E 3/226,515, 1 June 1962, reported that MACTGUES vas a
favored companion of Fidel CASTRO}

b. SE 80/53, 1 October 1961, reported that MACIQJES wes loyal
to CASTRO, responsible for tourist facilities in Cienaga de Zapata,
25 years Old, not known whether a Commmniet, and married to a U. S.
edtisen (whereabouts unknown). ‘

h. There vas no pertinent information on Potrona BALIEGAS, wife of
Regino PEDROSO Aldana, Cuban Cultaral Counselor in Peiping.

ERD OF DISPATCH



fuegeet ean

re % reports de


CReT

SE


Nemoraniva for the Record + 23 Apr 63

SUvjecs: — LITAMIL=9

Qn oF arr &

mtg wir eld fro m 2230-2400, Fo 9

ids’ opin ihe fs he ehrsice of the Gxt

the.

of political or econonic reasons at the tire.

Cuban people will be atie tc stand the conditions under «ai.h they
are pres. ntly living indefiritely. Ee said the ost pro. ou: ced scare

city in thav of by cn hardly present s

terns ¢2 elaas

shat al thoug

people not sterving ll be able ve

In the > .t to field, 1-9 seid that thera .+

Benvec . the CO}

ths is not of serious propystions and CASTRO az:

Avo wdieitly, 9 ca STRO dislikes botr

Buz

sibly rid the

is made on the eugar crop. T:at is,

C will raxe ene of the bnese two a

poor ene or

crop.

side? were very pelased with the latest

chav vais'was a chanz S. attitutce ts

zsstle base ig ke not able io
ce

& slore friend ef

were :f @ mobile nature,
traiz sd for this cuppase

a+; avoid the U

mee 9 sais


ALge rou person. seek ¢ 4.
eiitth et6 Albérte 2 oetoan G=2.and | deportent te
errs “FE Sys ture CewTaer we! Cewcwrtape

“Ind ie enaer cer € shat D

5. In: sa:3 that An¢énic GARCIA Lara and Hie wife rescmred to Mexico

oz: their duaghtere was dying. 1-9 said it was sous and

suffering from eet might have 31:

Quban Eb in Lexico te now ae in "gvatidestial® sec

Foreign Ofte. — Lett ARIA

en 22 Ars 63, LT002E-1 told him that Huct«>

Te Le? ate

Lara, kat 20% shown up 2 ly and was t

Cuba.

E-1 said that c

& reakly

|} GARCIA teid him Mexicen wife

solean R

PRENTA aig

9 rcporte she only ected hos

--9 vaid that DEL

jo. "B48 Fa

@ is *re mouth niece of

hie brother meant that he wowle talk to on

vin the oren" but. rot in terns of clandestine activity. 1-9 5

re trovher was very "honesto" énd would not want to ‘eke

oy “enzano". He seid that hie brother would be extrer

tout ae (69) was cooperating with the U.S. chanicr

‘} osid that he vor pretty sure

tal

to leave Cuba, Ee ratd thet Fidel CASTRO was

ee ard re felt tant Atlette wife would be Mraceissccet Verne TOs



Ve. Ee Vaid he sox’ Risen ALCUB in Habana and ALU: proeoly

returh to Mexico in about tyo weeks, “I-3 -svid thit D2 -22.

: rae very eritienl of AZGI® becausd of raze of things “te hes been

“Lcive in Nexico.

TO0U%-1 probsbly ucée reo to drinkin, heavily, -

a cree . Uaderendent air, éte. Nar

no GARCIA Perer cp;

to Hébata, thet ATCUE left the corsulate in an’

iP. Ot49%naie’ that! Raquel, Inu, an Uriguayen w

E0lE's kouce'while waitirg for her.viga ix Kexico- was undér. suep

she arrived in Hababa, According to Concha FIRRAKDEZ, Picel

meelf, wernt to visit her tc find cut where she stood thragh

2 said

t
t.ervier F

OQ returned from his visit to

4KA2NX Conchita

kriv wao the ST OTA vr

ance mid Mexico reprectiveiy.

Cu-an Yabassy in =

mes 2 extrezieta:

7 . & 29 ire
ch LAAT SYET

ko rerlzce Paul CAS20

eround the

in 6 c.g ccandal at Vere

<a pac!

ned ty the ex

igs Wes Frokibitea., Sne clew ter

roeaette 2



‘or, the eer.

assipred hic to

i

BxZ

two repre-entat

a from Aub. G:iterts

2 left vexico feo Habana

=
3

TH

ceid that on 6 Kay..63,

re

2 he attendei «a

veant ant

pele

present the cuban 3

ives £,

. Mia, Suban Foreign -:nister. « cB
BAGEL CUCR MERI hyp Coniiter aif L1Thayt <1 MAYES

‘SEORET

on € ty 63, f

we Crove ano

Oo,

som Quba, ise.
irlists a

DROSA with Sree

ROSA teid 2-9

NOT SUITABLE FOR wiceofitagng ©

AS Uksaco, Cuban

cated)

the city. Bo

29 foported en sontaeie

same flight as the

i-9 queried Teresa F

ing wrether she tr

ant, caid that the

said +

wlacto, first at +

we Ted said that

ATA,

ste in Veracruz.

de

Porvs,

RACER

eri

he 2

the two were very ec}

. re

the crisis os

nt a few Gays ars Re =:

woul?

and has teen 1?

the

and tren leav

ee panw :! .

exicen employee “at the Cus

pert



na
ROUTING

CONF:

“Wwro': DOF, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, FI/INT 2, SAS 5, S/C

1 rexT INFO WAS CHE DIR

; 38443:
PSHDSE LITGTT, ‘

ROP: OKT LATS “(aH 33699)" ~~ -~~

i
| . le GS MOST INTERESTED 25F REPORT GH HOCROMAVE SRAIAR. PLS ALYISE
' AST INFO ON CUasii PARTICIPATION AT SSMINAR AND PERSOWALITY DATA THAT LITAMIL 9
ae GAN DEVELOP ON CUBAN DSIEQATES. ALSO IMVESTIGATS POSSIBILITY OF RECHODMERT
APPROACH THROUGH SCKE OTHER STATIC! ASSET IF LITAMTE-9 ASSESSMENT WARANTS.
: 2. HOS TRACES SUBJS FEF NEGATIVE. :

EMD C? MESSAGE

wes inte report on arrival of tvo Cuben celegates in

AB CaS
fexdeo City to cttend sccinar on microwave systems and teckaiques,

Sas /603, (in draft)

I

3.c.-sn6/ *

¢ roorcimating azsice Pasa
FO SBR. orriece eee hesrearing
1 OFFICER.
s2cant a)
REPRODUCTION BY CTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. ‘Copy Na.




See 1axr cables aati

Son.

SACIRUES other ors leads,” L

at
te ‘how in the U.S. “with their cvitéren. MaAcig)

end Xaxz his wife Gave birth to. a@ child rece:.¢!

in the U.S. re Ceba, It was DE LACSA who told I-¢ that
LE [whe Cre By SUBT Tt Lots
very please by Cartier iy

3. i-S said that he heard several p2o;le mention thet Pi-el Ca:THO hed

was rot able +o give any details on these

penetrationsol XE KVR.

reports but cite@ the cere of AL-3 es an exazple of this.

Pvenicle rad c.

it var a Gooch. gaaguaghitseer-7

"se e

part.
place, he Criven

ENG szig

trucks sent

es

them to i

ssn... PC pnp


9%
Cuban: courier, and asked him bbout the Po} ivian pu

two Cuban couriers were killed, YASSEISS told 1-9 tka?

10. Ix9 went to the "wake" of Roberto ICE: » Cuban courier, who wés |

”
ydlled in the crash in Polivdaand was approached by MOLSits brother, rho

oddly enought had attended the party that L-G XHMZEE% throw for’ Neréetes
LEcivCa at his apartment. T recall 1-9 showed me e phete of the group :
and cited the negro as-a Cuban “in town" so he invited hin to the T£EX
party.

A told L-9 that shel knew ke would re- 5

1l,. On 23 Apr 63, Teresa PR
turn to texico beéause when she was in Fabana she h arduthinticdt:

nigher thet. ROK. .was very pleased with L-9's handlin, of Juenite c3s
and her sinter re scendal at the Enbascy. It is i-9's opinion that

Fidel CASTRO t- ok this incider:t ery | seri

Sly and he attributes

carnas and others to this incident,

involved in the scandal will renain inex

Veta Perez ig also scheduled to leave Mexico for goed.

Raul. ROA akked hin to give a first

harg detailed sccoun

at the Bbesay BEXKIRE LR re sani

rete Pe
adie poor slg ee on “ti e point:
Tel Bethe a

wre

on his way to the “ineiners

he Teonfiferetalent svettors (FiO HOEK he center Af iran £7




DIR WAVE CITE NEXT 4516
FBRUNEN |
_-RYBAT LETAMIL ANLEO oo
15 OW 22 AND 24 APR 63, LITAMIL-9 REPORTED-THAT IT HIS
THAT WIFE AMLEO-3 VILL NOT BE ALLOVED LEAVE CUBA WITHOUT OVERTURES
SIMILAR THOSS MADE BY DONOVAN RE AMERICANS. L-9 BELIEVES THIS MINIMUM
IN GASE WIFE AM-3, L-9 SAID HE SURE.THAT PRESENT METHODS BEING USED

INION

RELEASE HER HAVING NO EFFECT.
SAID CUBAN GOVT TOYING WITH WIFE RE RELEASE GIVING HER ROUTINE ANSWERS
HOPE FOW: RELEASE. L-9 ATTRIBUTES ABOVE POSITION CUBAN GOVT TO TERRIFIC

BLOW AM-3 DEFECTION GAVE FIDEL CASTRO, WHO TRUSTED HIM WHEN OTHERS

7DID NOT.
2s Le9 TRIES*TO"AVOID PIN POINTING CONCHITA FERNANDEZ AS SOURCE HIS
“SENSITIVE INFO" BUT REPEATS INFO AND GIVES IT EMPHASIS ORDER IMPLY
THIS HIS SOURCE. PARA 1 EXAMPLE THIS TACTIC L-9. LITTLE DOUBT INFO PARA
1 DIRECTLY FROM CASTRO FERNANDEZ COMBINE, i a
3, WHILE HAVA Le9 HEARD MANY REMARKS RE ANLEO-3 ACTIVITIES MIAMI,
BUT ONLY REMARKS SUCH AS DRIVING “pra :can* AND SURROUNDED BY “BODY

GUARDS” RECALLED. ©
seEcR T

[een



< 7 bis Becca iaiewes
eee Sia bic? Saas VR as ini Rasulo BE siccSiiedSS
seca cast neh Sata ta GOIN OLS ian aaa
ee

i : | MAY 10 1363 i

u Lees. micro. sea, ]
\ : >

#taehsent:



"of Bolienta end DE LA OSA te very ples

+ trek out

in for the £,,. :

LITAYILA9°

en On OB Arr 63,: 1 5

ors Point and: took to ‘ny houre 4

until 2400, NO-rECURTGY Pecnni

. OH GACIQUES other “ops leads ~LI-GUE-L, Spare part

Tn add:

Abrahan EACIQUES,- Cuban, is etroreed fron

is now in the U.S, with their cWildren,” MACIQUES is married again

z

: of

and Ya3E his wife gave birth to a child rece:.t

i-G sid that he had a long telk x,

in the U.S. re Gvba.

Tt was DE LASEA who tols 1-$
TE f1
very please by Cartier

3. I-S said that he hi

penetrationsof OH EUR

s but cited the case

re:

+9 caid that on severd

aerial on

onagains

to dotection ete? Ix



Aaaaae tea SECS
ade Ix9icaie that in his opinion the prveence of soviets i

4s not influencing the Cuban “anbiente". He sata, infact, th

of Atericans, in previous years, war more rotictable MEX than th

Epaeemente : Soviets foday. 1-9 avid: "No seve dfecto ni desafécto, wha indifer-

“encia" re-the Soviets.

Leave’ a
23

H. the..nes “Led ‘Feceived
Sa ee LAGS
&0.told Im9 thit RADAK phone tappe

ian 9. I-9 said’ that while ih Hebena he "bumped into’

@ by Cuban Govt.

Agustin. YASSELLS,

° " Cuban courier, and askéd him bbout the Po)ivian plane crash in»

two Cuban couriers were killed. YASSEIBS told I-9 that this was "sabote

10. I<9 wont to the "maze" of Roberto CD2", Cuban courier, who res.
¥dlled in the Crash in Poli*daand was approached by
oddly enought had attended the party thet 1-9 ZXEE
LECHUCA at his apartment. 1 recall L-9 showed me @
and cited the negro as-a Cuban “in town" so he invited hin to the YEEX

party. : ;

nh. On 23 Apr 63, Teresa PROENZA told L-9 that s}

turn to Mexico beéause when she was in Eat

higher them ROA was very pleased with 19's handling of ducnita
and her sitter re scandal at the Embasey. It is L+9's opinion thot
Pidel CASTRO t-ok this incident fery seriously and he attributes the
recall of Heberto JORDI, who aceotding to 1-9 will not returi, the

CONDES and others to this incident. It is 1-S's opinion that no one

x ico. IeG raid that °

in

ved in the scandal will renain in

VEGA Feres 1¢ also acheduled to leave Nexico for gocd, 1-9 sa

Raul, RGA abked him to give a first hard detailed seco:
at the Evbessy AEXKIRGAX re Juanita CASTRO et al,
2 a ck Le

fel
IH9 said that ne met fréencice Se
MERL

“tho EeQe in fabpnavand MATZ tel

i
tn, MScciniy on the soint of ",

wns ih the "confideretales" s-eticrs Fit BEAR fe ptflirany 6-7

Tyas, anaes



~gamé_ to %

oe 19 reported

Nexico and acte?

oa Peru
SECRET.

on 25 Apr 63, that }

“pFiee to 1690's: departive

auspieiounyy duping hie ptay ati the

fow Habena, appearad_at the_airport in Habara
Sie b9 meno re FERRER)

cKS



“SECRET 251799200 9°, eis
om WAVE. CITE MEXI 4316 - 1N25637- AG APR IE : ae So.
PBRUMEN : :

RYBAT LITAMIL AMLEO
1, OW 22 AND 24 APR 63, LITANIL-9 REPORTED THAT IT HIS OPINION
THAT WIFE AMLEO-3 WILL NOT BE ALLOWED LEAVE CUBA WITHOUT OVERTURES
“SIMILAR THOSE MADE BY DONOVAN RE AMERICANS. L-9 BELIEVES THIS MINIMUM
IN CASE WIFE.AM-3, L-9 SAID HE SURE THAT PRESENT METHODS BEING USED

. RELEASE HER HAVING NO EFFECT.

SAID CUBAN GOVT. TOYING WITH WIFE RE RELEASE GIVING HER ROUTINE ANSWERS ©
HOPE FOR°RELEASE. L-9 ATTRIBUTES ABOVE POSITION CUBAN GOVT TO TERRIFIC
BLOW AM-3' DEFECTION GAVE FIDEL CASTRO, WHO TRUSTED HIM WHEN OTHERS

3p Nor, : ‘

2, Le9 TRIES TO AVOID PIN POINTING CONCH3TA FERNANDEZ AS SOURCE HIS
“SENSITIVE INFO° BUT REPEATS INFO AND GIVES IT EMPHASIS ORDER IMPLY
THIS HIS SOURCE. PARA t EXAMPLE THIS TACTIC L-9. LITTLE DOUBT INFO PARA

1 DIRECTLY FROM CASTRO FERNANDEZ COMBINE.
" 3) WHILE HAVA L-9 HEARD MANY REMARKS RE ANLEO-3 ACTIVITIES MIAMI,
BUT ONLY REMARKS SUCH AS DRIVING “BIG CAR" AND SURROUNDED BY “BODY

GUARDS” RECALLED. )
spS
SECRT ee (°?

sot
aan
ae
ce em

GROUP T
Screg FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN=
EADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA\ FICE 1S PROHIBITED,

itt

ney



SO rg GRRE i Nl

ee ket iON: ©. fice - 2 anags
TINO: oop, anor, C/ct; C/Ft 2,.c/se 4s c/ss 5, sfe2 ules

-$E-€ RET 2502267 ~~. Se ie : ; :
DIR CITE MEXT 4328. “~~ Poet . iene
RYBAT LITANIL -PBRUMEW AN2582 | -

WHILE HAVA, LITAMNIL-9 ACCOMPANIED BY PEDRO AND ABRAHAM

268 APR IES

te
WACIQUES VISITED SPARE PARTS SHOP ON CALLE BUENOS AIRES NEAR OLD ites

PEDRO MACIQUES IS TECHNICIAN THIS SHOP WHICH UNDER
ESINEERS, WHICH COMPOSED HUSBAND WIFE TEAM

SOAP FACTORY.
_ DIRECTION THREE So":

AND ANOTHER SOV. SHOP
SS
EE TRANSFERRED JURISDICTION UCEPLAN SHORTLY. Crlso Revo Juce Pan)

4
SATIRE “Ror Se eet on ape mene

PRESENTLY UNDER JURISDICITION MINOP BUT WILL

2. Le9 WHILE SHOP NOTED PLANS, DRAYINGS, CATALOGUES, GENUINE

SPARE PARTS, PARTICULARLY CATERPILLAR AND INTERNATIONAL TRACTORS.

NOTE PISTONS, VALVES, ETC. Ps MACIQUES TCLD L-9 THAT PLAN HIRE

20 MORE DRAFTSMEN NEAR FUTURE, SAPRE FaRTS PROGRAM FULFILL NEEDS

PROGRESSING WELL.
3. L-9 SAID PEDRO MACIQUES ALTHOUGH NOT CONMUNIST SPOKE HIGHLY

PROGRESS BEING MADE THIS SHOP UNDER SOVS. PEDRO APPEARS SATISFIED
HIS-LOT PRESENT DAY CUBA WHILE ABRANAM UNSATISFIED.

}
SE CRE pe ce een

GROUP 1
* “T EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC OOWN-
; GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION,
TTSSUTNS OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED.



— SX. anemic en i neti stems Folaicket tented

“SE CRE T 2520012 Z ‘ :
“DIR CITE MEXI 4325 4N25705 PS APR Issa : ayes

Q Fear Litawne ParuMEN |” : ie
“15 ON 4 MAR 63, -AT AIRPORT HAVA, LIOOZE-1 TOLD LITAMIL-9 THAT | |

: BECAUSE OF AN ERROR COMMITTED BY RAMON CUENCA MONTOTO, THE MEXICAN i :

GUERRILLA LEADER, RUBIO JARAMILLO LOST HIS LIFE. LIOOZE-1 WENT ON

: TO SAY THAT CUENCA DID NOT LISTEN INSTRUCTIONS FROM ERNESTO “CHE®

; GUEVARA = “COMMENT: CUENCA/G-2) CHIEF AND COMMERCIAL COUNSELOR

% MEXI 23 MAY.62 DATE JARAMILLO KILLED.

. 2. L-9 REQUESTED THAT EXTREME CAUTION BE TAKEN RE INFO PARA 1.

Le9 DOES NOT “TRUST LroozE-1 AND FEARFUL ABOVE MIGHT BE PROVOCATION.
INTERESTING NOTE L-9 MET L-1 T¥O OCCASIONS DURING LAST TRIP BOTH

“TINES AT AIRPORT. TALKED LONG TIME BOTH MEETS. ON EACH OCCASION

AS IN PAST Le1 DISCUSSED SENSITIVE INFO WITH L-9 WHO DIVORCED

THIS TYPE INFO VIEW DIPLOMATIC ASSIGNNENT, AND HAS NO NEED TO

KNOW: LeS SAID HE BELIEVES CONCHITA FERNANDEZ XNOVS REAL ROLE

L+1 BUT SHE CLOSE MOUTHED RE SAME.

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOwN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION,



"ACTIONS ya 8
22 INFO t pop, Cy €1/0°S,::C1/RA, FI, SAS 5; sce :

See ae 2600162. Fey -IN25B17

. Dak CITE MEXI-4335 0° 2-232 4

1) LIT@MIL-9 (B-2) RPTED 24 APR THAT SIGWIN B RASKA NOW VERY CRITICAL
PRESENT CUBAN REGIME DESCRIBING IT “VERY MEDIOCRE”. RASKA PLANNING
LEAVE CUBA NEAR FUTURE FOR PUERTO RICA CUBAN GOVERNKENT HAS RaSKA’S

PHONED TAPPED

SINCE BELIEVES RASKA U.S AGENT.

L-9 SOURCE ABOVE INFO EUSFBIO ASCUE, CUBAN CONSUL HEXI

2. COMMENT:

- PRESENTLY ON VACATION CUBAy

3. - REQ HaS RELAY INFO PARA ONE ODENVY DUE THEIR INTEREST RASKAe

Scere oe era

We fype disrins fo ERI 3/4 o5—

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC OOwN-
i i | GRADING AND DECLASSI FICATION.
REPROQUCTION 87 OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 1$ PROWIBITED.



DIR INFO WAVE” CITE: Ext axea 1N25694 te

RYBAT LITANIL PBRUMEN :

‘Ae ON 25 APR S35 LITAMIL® 9 PROVIDED FOL OPS: LEaDS “Havas
As FELIPE GUERRA MATOS, DEFENSA POPULAR CHIEF, IS ANTI COMMUNIST. fi

HARSHLY CRITICIZED APPOINTMENT ORDOQUI, FNU, CUBAN COMMUNIST TO
HIGH POST DEFENSA POPULAR. ALSO HIGHLY CRITICAL SUCCESS PEDRO
GUILLEN, CUBAN COMMUNIST POET.

'B. PETRONA BALLEGAS, WIFE REGINO PEDROSO ALDAMA, ‘CUBAN CULTURAL :
ATTACHE, CHINA, RECENTLY DENOUNCED. AS COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY AND :
BROYGHT BEFORE TRIBUNAL. BALLEGAS EXCELLENT DEFENSE HER POSITION

“S “EXONERATED HER ANY REPRISALS. .BALLEGAS, WHO SCHOOL TEACHER,
REMAINED HAVA WHEN HJSBAND ACCEPTED ASSIGNMENT CHINA, L-9 SAID
“ BALLEGAS INCIDENT OCCURRED FEW DAYS BEFORE HE LEFT FOR MEXI.
" ~ Gy  ABRAKAM MACIQUES, CUBAN WHO FORMERLY IN CHARGE CIENAGA DE i
ZAPATAs RECALLED BY CASTRO BECAUSE AFTER AMLEO-3 DEFECTION AND i
. UPRISENG HE "LOSING CONTROL”. MACIQUES RETURNED HAVA

WHERE WAITING REASSIGNMENT. WHEN MACIQUES HEARD OF
CASTRO ACCEPTANCE TRIP MOSCOW, KE COMMENTED TO.L-9 THAT IF HE DCES i
NOT SEE CASTRO BEFORE HE LEAVES FOR NOSCOW HE WILL GO PBPRIME,
IeEsy THAT IS IF HE NOT REASSIGNED BY CASTRO BY THAT TINE.
"De Le 9 INVITED ORLANDO SANCHEZ, BROTHER OF CELIA ‘SANCHEZ TO

_NISIT HIAHEXT. SANCHEZ NCN COMNITTAL. SANCHEZ» wHo INTIMATE

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN=
GEADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. e ae


BROTHER TOLD L-9 OF “PITCH VIGO WITH

"CL Anis: INE “COOPERATION. -
COMMENT -HE TOLD COYOKER WOULD TALK WITH HIM “ANY TIME” BUT NOT
FOR PURPOSE PROVIDE INFO CLANDESTINELY ETC. L-9 ADDED: THAT BROTHER

“MUY HONESTO" ND THAT IF HE AWARE L-9"S COVERT COLLABORATION WITH

“ODYOKE WOULD BE "HURT". SAID BROTHER'S STAND THAT OF WAKING

POSITION CLEAR, I+Esy OPENLY BREAKING WITH REGIME. ;

SECRET ee :



cr pen mm canner a

te 2 R: i

ier setepeostearenecotestezie

+ prom, DIRECTOR. :
cont, TW 10 : :
oop, Ci, CI/OPS, CI/0A, FI, FE 6, WH 7, S/c

10 INFO. CITE DIR 09999

" GYROSE
1,’ REQUEST ALL AVAILABLE BIO AND ASSESSMENT DATA TO DETERMINE
ROEPCKTED Po pura.

RECRUITABILITY OF REGINO (PEDROSO) ALDAMA, PRROWEN CULTURAL,
WwW SEES CHLED 10 Yow a
_ COUNSELLOR PEE

REPORT OF OCT 62 LISTS SUBJ AS CHARGE AD INTERIM,
2, A MARCH 1960 REPORT LISTED SUBJ AS CULTURAL COUNSELLOR

MEXICO, VENEZUELA, CENTRAL AMERICA, COLUMBIA AND CARIBBEAN AREA
WITH HQS IN MEXICO, IN OCTOBER 1960 IT WAS REPORTED THAT SUBJ 7
WAS THE ONLY OFFICIAL IN MEXICAN EMBASSY WHO PROCLAIMED HIMSELF cae
ee A COMMUNIST, HAD BAPE EXTENSIVE CONTACTS IN INTELLIGENCE
CIRCLES AND WAS COHSIDERED TO BE HIGRLY EFFECTIVE, IN DECEMBER
1961 ANOTHER SOURCE REPORTED THAT SUBJ WAS INVOLVED IN FSP{ONAGE
TH MEXICO FOR PBRUMEN GOVERNMERT, A MARCH 1962 REPORT FROM ONE
OF SUBJ'S FRIENDS STATED THAT SUBJ WAS EXPELLED FROM CP YEARS nee
AGO AND IS NOW ANTI COMMUNIST, AS OF LATE 1962 A RELIABLE WAVE
‘ASSET WHO IS OLD FRIEND SUBJS FAMILY REPORTED THAT HE HAD HEARD me
SUBJ WAS DISENCHANTED WITH REGIME AND WAS LOOKING FOR WAY OUT,
WAVE ASSET BELIEVES SUBJ WOULD Lessa! TO PROFOSAL FROM ANYBODY

CARRYING. HIS BORA FIDES ane 1S WILLING PRO}
ys foal _ FB/JAQ.
ws hOB: a4 ef : cn
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE Reuine OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy No.



INFO: ADDN, DSi
a2, 22/afty-erfors, cific 2, Ft, Fi/dy Fi/int

as

23792
woes 3/544, 853

12f oo/t, anler 2, s/c Be

--.. CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ee
wad = secre r |
ae . APR 23 21322 63° 0s
tne uoueful ee ese estcaie: afece,” |“ ROUTINE”

INTEL
SUPDATA SOURCE!

LITAMIL-9 SAID LIOOZE-1 TOLD HiM HE T/OUGHT MEX! Piet
softsd auf
TMENT HERNANDEZ. REQL a vere Hel f.

APPROVE APFOTIY

CITE MEX! 4279

£ LITAMIL=9 SOURCE FIELD COMMENT LIENVOY.

2319252 PEFORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGH G1SSEM HMM 7198 MEXICO CUBA

22 APRIL 63 APR.2 SOURCE
N EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY,

{ CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO MEXICO COI 22 APRIL 63 FADA MEXICO
PERSONS (8) WITH GOCD CO

Tw COMMENT ; - '
(RO SeraRAce CAE cegeert ped tbr ‘
BS ESIND MADE OF al yore
10¢s :
PRECEDENCE
He Tx ROUTINE nit
i PRIORITY

| BASED ON:
i

UAISON

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING QFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Now


Deldoad et 9
Geer

NG fi SSH

“REPORT NO. ae 853

‘SUBJECT pate piste. 24 aprie 1963
PRECEDENCE | ROUTINE

DATEOR = 22 aPaiL 1963 REFERENCES iw 23792

INFO. .

PLACER MEXICO, MExtco CITY (22 APRIL oS :

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL © 7 FILO REPORTING, wuv-7198,

THis 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIV
source F- (5) with Gooo CONNECTIONS IN THD CUBAN

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE, H

IN MEXICO CITY.

<ICAM GOVER!,

in jf CUSAN GOVERNMENT HAS REQUESTED THAT Tf:

APPROVE THE APTOINTMENT OF JOAQUIN RERNANDEZ ARMAS, FORMER CUBAN

AMBASSADOR TO BRAZIL, AS CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO XICO TO REPLACE CARLOS

» LECHUGA HEVIA, LECHUGA WILL BECOME CUBAN AMS.

NATIO!

{FIELD COMMENT: LECHUGA WILi DEFT
ON 26 OR 29 AFRIL.) (SOURCE COMMENT: HER®

WELL COUCATED COMMUNIST.) APARICIO (FNU}, FORMER CULTURAL COUNSELOR

AT THE TURAN LME

SSY IN PRAGUE, WILL £LSO EO ATUOINTED CULTURAL

COUNSEL CR A CUBAN EMBASSYIN MEXICO CI cise
2. 2 SSEM: STATE ARMY MAVY_AIR © 8! seicarish (
| CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET i FOREIGN SEY

Tae [aes [corr Leer ie

[Erte

fa" 1K

CROLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. caso


1. ON 22 APR G3, LITAMIL-9 ARRIVED HEXI VIA CUBANA (LIFIRE B/DOGD. |
“2e, Le9 MADE contact co NIGHT 22 APR AND MTG HELD 2230-2408.

L-9 REPORTED THAT AFTER CONCHITA FERNANDEZ UNSUCCESSFUL PERSUADE

RAUL ROA RETURN L=9 TO MEXI POST SHE WENT SEE FIDEL CASTRO 13 APR.

ROA TOLD FERNANDEZ THAT HE HAD NO CONTROL OVER REASSIGNMENT L=9

THAT HE NOW UNDER JURISDICTICN RAMIRO DEL RIO OF THE CONSEJO

CULTURAL RPT CONSEJO CULTURAL (CC). FIDEL CASTRO.WHEN TOLD OF —

: _ ROA‘S POSITION TOOK ROA TO TASK AND ASKED HIN SINCE WHEN L-9

UNDER JURISDICTION CC AND TOLD ROA TO SEE THAT L-9 RETURNED MEXI.
ON 15 APR Le9 VENT SEE #0A AND ROA HAD CHANGED POSITION COMPLETELY.
SAID NO REASON L-9 SHOULD NOT RETURN TO HEXI AND THE TWO SPOKE

FRIENDLY TERMS FOR SOME TINE.

3. Le9 SAID STAY HAVA NOT AGREEABLE VIEW PERSONAL PROBLEH,
I.E, RECALL AND NEXT ASSIGNMENT. SAID FELT ON OCCASICNS HE HAD
BEEN RECALLED AS PUNITIVE MEASURE. CITED REMARK LIOOZE~1 WHO TOLD
WIA THAT HE HAD HEARD THAT GUILLERHO LEON ANTICH RECONMENDED
(ORALLY) HIS GISMISSAL FROM FOREIGN SERVICE. NUANCES CONCHITA
FERNANDEZ WHO IMPLIED HE SHOULD. WATCH HIS STEP IF HE RETURNED
MEXI ETC. ON OTHER HAND L-9 NOW BELIEVES RECALL RESULT COMMUNIST
MANEUVER DIRECTED BY EDITH GARCIA BUCHACA, WHO HEADS CC, AND FROW
WHOM DEL RIO GETS ORDERS. CONCHITA FERNANDEZ TOLD L-9 SHE OPINION HIS
CASE SIMILAR THAT FLORA DIAZ PARRADO, WHO FORNER CUBAN CULTURAL

GROUP 1
SECRET EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN]
GRADING AND DECLASSIF CATION.
REPRODUCTION GTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED



HAROLD GRAMATGES, CUBAN ANB
0 UNESCO PARES BECAUSE.WER:

LOOKS WELL (GAINED ‘weients ‘AND ‘tis ANXIOUS EVER coopeRa’
Fact CASTRO wingeur SENT HIM MEXI- CAUSED ure COMMENT THAT OP
* ORE’ SENSITIVE THAN EVER AND ALL SECURITY PRECAUTIONS MUST BE :
TAKEN. CO BELIEVES THIS, WaTURAL. REACTION: L-9 AND THAT IN SHORT TIME
MEXI HE WILL once HORE BE AT EASE. NEXT #TG NIGHT 24 APR. -

3. L=9 PROVIDED CONSIDERABLE INTEL YHICH IS BEING DISSEMINATED.
SECRET



ne ar arr tanga

DIR INFS YAVE CITE MEXI 3872
TYPIC LITAMIL<9 : N9O7E3
1. ON AFTERNOON 19 MAR-43, GRACIELA JUANA RIVERA Y ALCESQ, £ URE
LITAMIL-9, TOLD HER FUTURE MOTHER IN LAV :

21 om wey

DAUSHTER IN LAY BROTH
BY PHONE THA’ L-9 HAD B
TO RETURN MEX IN ASOUT MONTH. L-9 SENT POSTCARD

EN TO SEE HER ARGUT 3 OR 4 DAYS ASO AND SAID

RRO. .. WHICH RECEIVED 19 MARCH, TONE CARD INDICATED L-¥ VERY ~

HAz.., MENTIONED SUCCESSFUL PLAY IN DOMINOES. _

2. CO MET BROTHER L-9 YHO SOURCE PARA 1 NIGHT 19 MARe
SECRET :

ee ere ane

: cu? Tt
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC OCuN=
GRADING AND GECLASS iF LCATION



CLASSIFIED

pate: 8m 63.

TO 1 DIRECTOR
- FROM: UMMAVE |

ACTION: SAS 10
INFO. : DOP, CI/oPS, WH 7, S/¢ 2

MEXI INFO DIR CITE WAVE 5537 2 : 1NB 1652
TYPIC LITAMIL-9 AMSUM :
REF: MEXI 3624 1! ane) :
1. WAVE HAS NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ON WILFREDO (CABRERA)
CABRERA OR ABELARDO (CONTRERAS) TELLEZ.
2. AMSUR-4, WAVE SUPPORT ASSET, PROVIDED FOLLOWING ON JUSTO
HERNANDEZ DE MEDINA PDOS CIENFUEGOS, CUBA 325 JUNIOR KIGH
SCHOGL EDUCATION; NO KNOWN MILITARY SERVICE; MEMBER 26TH JULY
NOVENENT AND COMMUNIST PARTs PRIOR 59 VAS AUTO MECHANIC, AFTER
GASTRO VICTORY BECAME JEFE DE PERSONAL DE OBRAS DE CARRETERAS,
DISTRITO OBRAS PUBLICAS, ZONA DE CIENFUEGOS. (CHIEF PERSONEL HIGHWAY ”
DEPARTMENT, ‘PUSLIC WORKS, CIENFUEGOS) AND AT THE SANE TINE WAS
“A MENBER OF THE G-2. IN JANUARY 62 HERNANDEZ BEGAN WORKING IN
HABANA IN THE DEPARTAMENTO DE LA POLICIA MOTORIZADA, #VERE HE
IN CHARGE HANDLING INTERVENED VEHICLES. IN JULY 62 HE WAS
TRANSFERRED TO THE MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE (MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT?
IN HABANA AND CONTINUES TO HOLD POSITION IN G-2e :
3. HERNANDEZ IS MARRIED; HIS INTERESTS ARE GUN COLLECTING,
CARS, AND MONEYs HAS, PERSONAL FRIENDSHIP WITH EMILIO CARAGONES)

GROUP 1
leaping auatecansirvearvex
ARAOING & DECLABSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE {S PROHIBITEO. CopyNo.



-
PAGE 2
AND ALDO CNARGOLLES)s PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION: SFT § INCHES oe
HT, 18 LBS, BLACK HAIR, BROVN EYES, BIG EARS, BIG WEAD
SPEAKS IN A STRONG BUT HIGH PITCHED VOICE. HERNANDEZ
REPORTEDLY STRONG COMMUNIST AND FILELISTA AND HAS TOLD FATHER, WHO
ANTI-COMMUNIST, THAT HE WOULD ARREST HIM IF FOUND ACTIVE IN ANTI
REGIME ACTIVITIES. eat

4 OTHER STATION TRACES FERNANDEZ WHICH PROB IDENTICAL:
UFGA 4679, 9 JUL 62 REFLECTS JUSTO (HERNANDEZ) IDENTIFIED AS
CONMUNTST AND/OR FELLOW TRAVELLER IN LAS VILLAS PROVINCE 5

id. SC;

EMPLOYED AT. MUNICIPAL BLDG CIENFUEGOS.
NP24) SE 2

NOTES JUSTO (HERNANDEZ) MEDINA IS COMMUNIST AND CHIEF OF HABANA
MOTORIZED DIVISION.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED TRACES.

fxeryoes race au
anaaina & DecLal

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHISITED.



Brrr ;
V Contact Revorts/LITAMIL-9 a

REDON REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ee
MICROSILMED
MAR 12 1963”

ce. Mico. szR,

qrPIc LITAMIL.9

- Attached, for addressees, ara copies of Subject contact reports

dated 30 January 1963 and 29 February 1963.

Attachment
As stated above
Arr" 2

Distribution

72 = C/TPH w/att
Sienna ae wife VAM ded ete
1 = COS, WAYE w/att
3 - Files



aes 1-9 a letter which he received from Havana several months ago because

a re AOR the nto NNN Sg MD GL Sen i ALS cba

sa : : -
“‘Kenorendun for the Record av 30 Jonuary 1963:
é 9

_ Qn 29 Januayy 1963, I wet LITAKII-9 at >
we “srove to darkended section “of. city ad

NO SECURITY PROBLEMS NOTED. Tines 203042130. et if
ye. aol cs TT tng repented 2s as follows: A 4
1 19635 SSaiog ANOOLRICH went. FICH went ip Chi cuben Sabaauy t0
digcuas travel to Ravana re 10th Medical Congress» FOOTRICH, ‘who i
sing * a Spocten: Passport told a) that he ie a to Tijaana

will bey
recently and crossed the border, visiting San Diego. WOOLRICH gave

“4 j
his address asACondowinio Insurgentes, Insurgentes Sur 300 60%, /188 Th
i i deine

LITAMIL~9 said that WOOLRICH was shrewddnd "sneaky", he did not like

his attitude. He appeared to be a person of "confidence", ise. of
the. Cuban Embassy. WOOLRICH said he had a Cuban visa. WOOLRICH showed

secording to WOOLRICH the neeting was scheduled for the end of last

year. WOGLRICH pointed out that the paper was outdated and aurgested

that it be returned to Hevana and a new one sent to WOOLRICH. The é

letter provided spaces to fill in by WOOLRICH of the doctors who would

“be going. WOOLRICH told L_9 that he had about five in mind,that some

of those who were going have changed their minds, WOOLIRHC eaid that

Dr Clemente ROBLES was now vacillating and ke did not know wheshhe he

was going to go. I-9 told WOOLRICH he would send the latter soonest

iH é and get a new one for WOOLRICH to fill in. The Congress will take
place between 17-24 February 1963. IL-9 took WOOLRICH to see Maricarren
OLIBARRI re visas and left him there, WOOLRICH, however, will be back

to see L-9 on 30 Jan 63, PROENZA tng & _ apes over te Doce 16s

2. On 27 dan 63, polores ts LANORA Zepeda asked L-9 for his telephone
number and teld him she would like to invited him to "reunirse con unos
amigos-en au apartanento". . (COLSZNT: I told L-9 that DE LAMORA's phone

£ con tract
was being "tapped" and to be careful re conversation). aay 79

TANG:
3. 0n28 Jan 63, PITA Pardo and TATO, Cuban couriers arrived on their

way to Canada via New York, eT CVUsBa SSe OiricsiaT

aaaiaeet me
4. 1-9 said that PedroY PARINAS, Cubandiplonat arrived in Nexico on

28 Jan and was leaving fo r Bolivia, L-9 deecribed PARINSS an wh dovens


Sr

io
_. -BITAMIL-9 = cont. SOE esti evoa. ae
ae ve 0 aot aie eS came eiieies eny :

tttle celebration ah the Exbasay to commen ae

1-9 said he waa
ot te the ‘Annivercay of Marti. “Nothing of any significance discussed.
” Th addition to the celebration at theEmbasey @ group from the Exb
and the Grupo Jose Marti place a. "corona" on the monument of Kartd

at Chapultepec Park.
7g. 1-9 said thtat AMSTET-1 invited him to have supper with him when
PP
he had. time. IL-9 was surprised at Ai-l's offér.
& 2% 1-9 said that*rumors indicated that Fidel CASTRO's mother was expec=

ted to arrive on 1 Feb 63.

9 B. 1-9 reported that the: Boletin de la Enbajada will now appear every
two months rather than once @ month as previously. 1-9 said this 1

was an economical measure.

10 J. 9 reported that Eusedio AZCUE told him that a group of Architects
were scheduled to meet in Habana to lay down the rules etc for

onteey re "Monumento Pkhya Giron". re
e7ifccan! Albee GAT HIT oe,
WW. Rancy

ae overt publications because they will provide photos of people of

YS DHOBAS told L-9 that certain photos should not be published

interest, SINOBAS was selecting the pictures for the Boletin de la
Eubajada when he rade these renerks, He particularly mentioned that
several faces were very clear in a photo re Parade in Havana during

the-4th Anniversary celebrations. LITAIIL~ 4 SAN GS
b Sear Tanie-~ 4 JON

Me. we Ramon SIFOBAS told 1-9 that Ke sent a cable to ALARCON, fnu in
Havana and asked him to ratify the previous cable re I1-9's transfers



“por ragones economfa,
Boletin Enb

esta foto. no ce debe pie
bidear oni ne

licar e:

oletin. Se
Podrfan ‘{dent:

: ; fican a .mue
‘chos compaferos',~S& obag=

}

i
4
t
{

I,
da "Bimensuayt

cee

i
1
i

; mo haya sido importante"

Bure

it
frapote, fallecié Sra. en | !
Zspafia, Trapote ne vf Pan-

» toja cuando vino ni lo supe
BS razén Ranirito. cnojaddg.

Sice Ancuc, Lingdéconn ‘
“misién mistiriosa” :

averiguar€ con "Sarba Ro rn
Ja” que hay contra tf.
de la “torn en la Enb. me |
pidié mi teléfono casa H
"reunirse con unos amigos |
en su apartanento" | H
Cen un parte) a Sinobas |
"no creo que lo'del teléfo-

a - eG
designado’ caricaturista |.
David ajragado Cultural en
Faris, (casi toda su fami- |
lia estd fuera de Cuba como

asilados, etc, etc.)

|

. “ye
28 Enero salié a Cuba

aristany llamado por Fige.
y Dorticés,

' cuando lleré a México mrigw

tany “Gramatcea no vino reu=

, 2Lén Enbajedorea" ahora dice

que Gramatres Operado en
Checoeslovaquia ¥Y convales
cliente en Cuba (operacién
interna }

ferin Maristany "reunién en

Cuba de Acrecados Culturaler
con Enbajadores ", El caso
ocurride en 2élgica con el-
Acr., Cult. Cabrera Infante
"fuf a escribir un libro"
y hay 600 cartas en la Emb.
sin abrir,

Y_entre otros muchog el cast
Blance en Holanda que crea
: re

e| especial) br. Jaine Woolrich

ecientemente Tijuana y

%

(pascpor

n Siego,

tes Cur

£2
nen

ins

ntes,

+e

ominio Insur
Oo. 300 dep, 653

Piene vis
cién
has

visité x
tog
I

Con

ve
rey

micico

te celepae
8 10 perso=
eso Nf

38,

eagta por una:
mal X Con~

& cubana, ve al fren:
aexicana compu
A Ue. 4a 3 Le

que particinard

‘Aefonal an t.


400000

. rg “4 una Reina. Condes, Prin- |
\
'

wee eee eee e 4

jue crea problemas con
> gus eriticas ece-que hay

|
. Gipes, ete. .Sezin Ueris- '
teny hay que llamar al or~'
den "a todos estos aubal-
ernos" Compraron $2.000.0C€
@ollars tabaco en un afio.
'y nos mandan leche conden-~ '
“- gada. “eso ea lo qu@impor-
.tante”
‘mismo Problema con muchos
Agr. Comerciales.

(no atienden las norms
. del Jefe de Hisién)

a
1,

npn SN |

|
Secretariy Armona vive en j
~ Av, Revolucién No. j
frente edificio "Eraita” |
: ( Woemewneen ence |
| Ocasién aniversario Mart{,
i. enn, bailes y discursos, |
: nienbros en da Enb. Guba

t

madre de Fidel llega Vierrie:

cas, Dijo Boda

za confiden mente "lo
cee mo. Brasil
Cuest 3 de judco con gen
° venta de fuerd\ apues-
dag aéliers"

Proen-

llegaron de Cuba Lunes 28
Tato y Pita, trdénsito N.Y.
y Canadd, . :

“Agrecade Diplomftieo Pedro

Farifias en trinsito para
Bolivia, cubano

‘miembros Enb. “Cuba. ofrenda.

monumento ilartf. entre otro
8 "Grupo José arti" gt)

Mages of budl

Fe, a senar
RSE

cecentes FieTo MTaca" |
sallePon.a Cuba pretedentes
Brasil 3 Inncionarios carlo.
e


Bede y ON€ | rect. Lae;

* AD e cry

esticuna QI1ex7e oe, ITI Ce

see AViae li. tol.

aveh to ST

wyeitarne=
FAN G3

‘SMe A TIEX Ce, ere CDT



Fas!

passe the: tao

Sabena tn: 3

% Fubliskeé in

0!

Neoan

eek

iy &

sado 35558, hoxien +

euriter (ste:



Nt eI AR NN icici ie alia a a ED Ri

OaTE “:'2 MARG3_ =
yo |; DIRECTOR =". *

arena prom : WAVE = A : x ee
~ AgTION: /SAS 5 (TEMPO CORY SLOTTED’ AT 175 2°hR)OM

info“; 95?» 400, ¢/sco 4, c/et, C/Fi 2, cfm 5, s/c 2

OPIN HEXI INFO"PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 5279
RYBAT TYPIC LITAMIL+9 AMLEO =. 1N78009

HIM THAT THRU PAA CHANNELS HE HEARD AMLEO-3°S AIRPLANE MECHANIC AND
PERSONAL PILOT, OSCAR TORRES OF REF, HAVE NOT BEEW MOLESTED BY
G2 EXCEPT FOR ROUTINE G2 QUESTIONING AFTER AMLOE-3°S DEFECTION.
NEITHER ONE was AWARE DEFECTION PLAN. :

2. WENT ON DISCUSS TORRES WHO ANLEO-3 STATES 24-25 YEARS
AGE, REBEL ARHY EM, BUT GETS PAID PILOT'S SALARY BY VIVIENDAS 2
CANPESINAS, TORRES NCT BELIEVED COMMIE, BUT IS NENBER MILITIA,

idee: ONAL FRIENDS. IN G-2 AT
AIRPORT.

TRP ORT.

- 3s AMLEO3 ALSO ELABCAATED FLIGHT OF LITAMIL-9 AND TORRES

¢

AND H

PERIOD JAN-MAR 62 WHEN L-9 FLEW AROUND ISLAND TAKE PHOTOS OF
NON-MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS CARRIED OUT BY VIVIENDAS
CAMPESINAS FOR PURPOSE PUBLICIZING CUBAN SCHOGL AND HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION FOR POOR IN RURAL AREAS IN MEXICAN AND OTHER Le Ay
‘ PRESS MEDIA. WHEN TORRES AND L~9 FLEW TO ISLA DE PINOS, DID

WOT GET FLIGHT CLEARANCE, AND ON ARRIVAL COMMANDANTE WILLIAS GALVEZ,
See cee ee een
Grou 1
EXCLUDED FROM auTOMATIG
DOWNGRADING & DECLASRIPI® -
cation,

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I$ PROHIBITED. Copy No.

. REF WAVE 5205 (77 76)
le 1 MARCH ANLEO-3 MENTYONED TO C/O THAT AMSHED-1 JUST INFORYED
t

REPRODUCTION BY 07



ar an ame mam aan ERD YAEL ERO MELE ARUN teat BE alan it

2 ASSIFIED: MESSAGE

COMMANDER OF THE ISLAND, BECAME SUSPICIOUS THEIR PHOTOGRAPHIC

ACTIVITIES AND TURNED IN REPORT TO G2 HABA ON UNAUTHORIZED FLIGHT

AND NOTED PR PROFESSIONAL CAMERA GEAR L-3 CARRIED.
4. AFTER L-9 FILMS OF HOUSING PROJECTS, SCHOOLS, ETC WERE
EXAMINED BY G-2 AND AFTER CALL BY ANLEO-3 TO CAPTAIN TcLo"

PANTOJA, AIDE TO CONM ANDANTE RAMIRO ‘VALDEZ OF 6-2, EXPLAINING THE
—

PROPAGANDA OBJECTIVE OF THE PHOTOGRAPHY, THE G-2 DISMISSED CASE

AGAINST L-9 AND TO AMLEO-3°S KNOWLEDGE NO FURTHER INVESTIGATION
OF CASE EVER CARRIED OUT BY G-2.

AMLEO-3 EMPHASIZED THAT SUCH
CHARGES BY COMMANDANTE GALVEZ ARE NOT TREATED SERIOUSLY nee

Is GENERALLY CONSIDERED NENTALLY. UWEaLanceD BY. RESPONSIBLE
CUBAN OFFICIALS.

ESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: -
DEFECTION, STILL IN CUBA,

*TORRES DID NOT DEFECT WITH AMLEO-3 AND AT TIME. AMLEO. 3

GROUP YY
EXCL UOED TRoM aUTOMATES
POWNGPADING W DETLABS HF y

cation
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING CFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


“CLASSIFIED MESSAGE _ =
fr {SECRET

Faye __DIRECTOR : ae a
coh HAS 107” seit

into, DOP, CI/OPS, C1/OA, WH 7, S/C
y

vo -PRITY MEXI wro- WAVE cit oe
: 21715
TYPIC LITALIL-9 :
REF; MEXE 3601 (IN 76714)

EQS HAS NO RECORD TORRES TOOK EXILE WITH AMLEO-3,

(END OF MESSAGE)

 C/sHD Jos, piopeesap een C/6AS/F¥
PELE ASING OFFICER iene AVIMENTICATING
SECRET orricea

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED, Copy No.



“TYPIC LITANTL-9. lies
"43 OW 12 FEB 63, FOL CUBAN DIPS ARRIVED EXT VIA CUBARAL JUSTO
MERIANDEZ DE: MEDINA PP 65/66, VILFREDO CABRERA CABRERA PP 63/67,
AND. -ABELARDO ‘sonatas TELLEZ PP 63/73. (LIFIRE B/poc)
OW 15 FEB LITANTL-9 REPORTED ARRIVAL THREE ABOVE BUT DID NOT.
[NMGW MANES, SAID aLL THREE ACTED NYSTERTOUSLY. ‘Or NOT AWARE MARES
SUT NOTED ONE IN PARTICULAR CHERNANDEZ) ASSOCIATED FREQUENTLY =”
WITH ANTONIO “NICO" GARCIA LARA AND IRINA TRAPOTE DE VALDEZ;
"TH Le9 OPINION TVO CABRERA AND HERNANDEZ) OF ThmEE PORtci TPE
. OW 28 FEB LeB PINALLY ASCERTAINED ONE OF GROUP PARA t HARED -
: = AND ANOTHER OF GROUP WHO ARRIVED 12 FEB LEZ FOR HAVA 23
es ee iii

“ AIRLESTS REVEAL CABRERA LEFT WERE FOR HAVA 25 FEB. MERNANDEE
“STILL EXt.at Erpassy. -
4) REQUEST TRACES: COWTRERAS FOSSIELY Game NEXT I TRANeIT.

ENO OF MESSAGE


baci in ain o
Be nn NN Ag Mian Nd i tte BOR EEES:

: * DIRECTOR,
© ROMS vexico CIty)

. FTION: sas. 1o-{us-TYNG SAS FI NOTIFIEQ’AND-CoPY SLOTTED 1
5 2 63.0M)

FO"? gop, ct, ct/ors, c
é.

OPIN DIR CITE MEX! 3633 ° f 7
TYPIC LITAMIL-9 . HIN78q21
REF: ‘A. DIR 19992 * j

B. MEXI 3559 UW Dy sob i
te LATEST DEVELOPMENTS LITANIL-9 OP AS FOLLOYS! Le9 READILY AND
ENTHUSIASTICALLY ACCEPTED FOL MEXI ACCOMODATION ADDRESS: FERNANDO
JIMENEZ APARTADO 38558, MEXICO 4, D.Fe, WHICH HE HAS SEMORIZED. i
POSSIBILITY REMAINS HE TAXE S/W PENCIL OR GREEN LEAD OXLY FOR EMERGENCY
USE VIA ACCOMODATION ADDRESS, WILL MAIL LTR ORDFR CHECK MEXI ADDRESS
WITHIN TWO WEEKS, BROTHER'S LETTER FROM NEXI WILL ADVISE HIM ARRIVAL
JIMENEZ LTR THROUGH OPEN CODE.
2. 1-9 PLANS WRITE BROTHER ABOUT EVERY TvO WEEKS, LTRS WILL CONTAIN
SOME OPEN CODE PREVIOUSLY AGREED UPON.CO AND L=9, I.Es, “PAPA DECAIDO™
MEANING CASTRO ACCEPTING COMMUNIST ADVICE AND REGINE PLANS CONTINUE
ACCEPTING COMMUNIST SUPPORT. “PAPA ANIMADO" MEANING CASTRO TRYING
RID COUNTRY COMMUNIST INFLUENCE ETC.
3. L-9 PREFERS NO PERSONAL CONTACT HAVA DURING FIRST THREE MONTHS,
AFTER THIS TIME WILLING TALK WITH MARIO FUMASOLI, SWISS DIPLOMAT, :
FORMERLY ASSIGNED SPAIN AND. POSSISLY STILL THERE. Le9 AND FUNASOLI

. croup
exc.u9eD rao aurowars
SECRET OouncneSraa h oeceassirr®

REPROOUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
t



PAGE 2 in 78021
L-9 FREQUENTS BOOK

CLOSE FRIENDS AND NO PROBLEM “COVER” MTGS HAVA.

STORE OVNED BY SR. “GELADO KITTY CORNER POLICE STATION AND BESIDE

CORNER CAFE ACROSS STREET FROM PALACIO BELLAS ARTES. CAFE AND S00KSTORE

UNDER ARCADE. L-9 HAS BEEN GOING BOOKSTORE FOR YEARS USUALLY BETWEEN
162-1880 DAILY, REQUEST PRESENT LOCATION FUMASOLI AND POSSIBILITY

Le9 WILL BE GIVEN PHYSICAL BONA FIDES VERBAL
- Led

HIS USE THIS OP,
RECOGNITION SIGNALS PRIOR DEPARTURE FOR EMERGENCY USE
POSITION RE PERSONAL CONTACT HAVA SAME THAT HIS LAST MTG PARMERS AND co.
CO MET BROTHER L-9 NISHT | MAR AND CONTACT PLANS ESTABLISHED.

a
BROTHER APPEARED WILLING COOPERATE FULLY WHEN CALLED UPON. WILL

POUCH PRQ=1 SOONEST.

S$. NIGHT 1 MAR L=9 IN GOOD SPIRITS AND CONFIDENT WILL RETURN NEXT
WITHIN THREE MONTHS, ALL AVENUES-WILL BE EXPLORED DURING NEXT KTG
COME UP WITH MOST EFFICIENT COMMO SYSTEM WITHIN L=9 LIMITATIONS AND
LEVY REQUIRFMENTS FOR “OPEN CODE” ANSWERS. L-9 LEAVING FOR HAVA

ABOUT 1400 ON 4 MAR.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *REF RYSAT.

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
SECRET DOWNGRADING HOE CLASEIFE
AT 10M

~ ¢ fl
REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No

