# 104-10180-10057

## Page 1

104-10180-10057

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS

CATION TOP AND BOTTOM

(00.40586800)

•FIDEATIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND AGONIES

DATE

Col. King

дек

ACTION

APPROYAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarkas

reguested

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

LINFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION.

RETURN

SIGRATURE

Details of oo/e interview.

by ram. Forelpaster

FOLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAME, AOONERS ANO PHONE NO. -

DATE

2. 201m 120703

12 Tel,

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

FAS 237 EYES

(40)

0. CONSEMEN PRANTANS OrOX. 1938-0-902331

---

## Page 2

1d-0n0d

SECRET

6 July 1960

MEYORANDUM PORE Chief, WED

SUBJECT &

Alexander I. Roarke, 85.

2. Following a rambling narrative of his experionces over the

years in Central America and the Caribbean, Mr. Roarke came to hi

major point which was that the most capable Cuban extled military leader,

and the one who is moat deserving of U.S. support Ia Pedro DiAz Lans.

Mr. Roarke knows DIAZ Lans and was planning to appear with DIAZ Lana

on a televiaion program in New York City on the night of 5 July.

Mr. Roarke considers DIAZ lans superior to General PEDRAZA, Francisco

CAJIGAS and Antonto VARONA, all of shom he claime to know.

3. Mr. Roarke said that the SOMOZAs have agreed to give DIAZ Inn

a military base in Nicaragua.

1r. Roarke himself plans to organise ar

American committee to back DIAZ Lañe. He will call it the Committoe to

Rescue Latin Ameries from Communian or something similar.

Nr. Roarke

claims that Spruille Braden has tentatively agreed to support this

At the present tine, Mr. Roarke la preparing a documentary

television f1lm dealing with & number of Cuban opposition groups.

money for this project has been put up by Channel 5 in New Tork City.

5. Mr. Elmore Haring, the 00/C officer who Interflewed Mr. Roarke,

subnit a more detailed raport through his own channels to ua in the

nart day or 80.

J. D. Esterline

Chief, WHI

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

Mies, Caster tinu

ATTIl & Suppart ud LA Breach

Chief, Ben Tart Offsee

Conversation with Alexander 'I. Rorte,

51 Chaabera Street,

Ten Tong to 1e

6 JuLy 1960

1. Harins callod on Rorse the puninE of 5 July 6o do a ramule

of a telephase call sua Robert Reinuidahl Divislon, wo stated

that forte risit have inforuation of value cuncerning Cuba.

Parte la a tall, alender, perronablo sen, about 34 years ald,

who by Els on adulssion

• 1e somenat surulous. Ho did not appear to

be a merp operator.

forke deseribed strelf as a tree lance reporter

and photographer sho has worted sostly for the Nationnl Broadcasting

Caupany on asaler-ent.

He says he la aloo erring to sake a living by

producing doc mentary filma for television station isy la New Yort.

He clales that bo vill shortly finlah for then a docucentary concerning

the various groupe which are in opposition to Castro. Rorie'a businese

address 10 the office or bia fathor,

an attorney, Biographio date

concerning forte 1e being forwarded 6 July 60.

3. Porte explained that he lose nary people in Cube and other

Caribbean countrles an a result of his reportorial vors 1la ll:carague,

Panera, Costa Rica, Cuba and other areas, and he says that beccuse of

@ Koen Interest ln the probles of has cas be done about Castro and

Countm In Cuba, and hle work on the current docunentory flin, he has

been keepins in close touch with various Cuban oppotition groupe. le

insisted on going into his Caribbean beckground at great length and

described in detall hia vialte to licaragus, Fansa, Cuba etc. mo

events he mentioned are. all past history nov.hovevar, and ve vill not

attempt to recount then here.

Porke gave all this background verely to try to provo that he

le voll ecquainted vith the situation la Cuba and underatands the various

opposition groups.

He then case to his real point which le that he

ragarde Dias Lans, upon he has seen a sreat deal of recently, as the

Boat

solid as all those nuo want to take acmon against Castro. la

reela that Ins ta completoly able, and ss In contact with the right

people in the Cuban ary and other Cuben orgmirationa sho can lend the

support when the right time cones. Accordins to Rorke, Lans belleves

that the jab should be done by Cubans frus a base outaide the Us, and

that Ims 18 brave and resourcent enousa to lead a succossnu action

If he la fumissed the neccasary ars end amnition.

Rorke belleves,

further,

that Lans 1a politically in the riddle of the road,

that he

Is not notirated by hatred and vould not bring about a blood bath la

Cuba. In sort, he feele that lone rould be with the us all the vay.

184-6274

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SUBJECT

3 Conversation lib ilexander I. Norte, 51 Chanbere Street,

On the ratter of a base fras disch to operate, forko says that bol has

talkod isth agenti of ilcaragus and they say that the Sonoran will

turnian one.

5º. In corporing lane ulth other ilgures so are in oproaltion to

•Castro, Rorse sentionod Callgas, Pedra and Varona, none of son 10

felo caperes trorily vita Lan

Verone, for Instance, 1s too far

to the left: scoording to Rose, Lan has set uith 5 different groupe

Le the Knot rau days in New Turk, all of which prolood to Jola lans 15

he can bet the right backing.

Rorte mays that he does not know the :

nans of there. Erulpe but can get this'll se are intercotdo.

G.

Rorke said that he was soing to appeer with lonz it ll IN

5 Jilly GO On Barry Grayl redio saur for a parlod of about 2 hours. 'A

chief tople of discusion according to Rorke will be the anti-penitim

of the Cartro grommust. At the eud of the venis Lanz expects to retur

to Hiend.

7, Rorse statod that do hopes to fora un Anericon front committee

Mieli Spruilla Braden haa agreed to head 11 the right people can be

brownt Into 11. The group would have soue such nine as

"Carmlttee

to Rescuo Lotta Merica fran Camunlan" and Roriso belloves that thie

organiation ulcht tunie, excollant cover for CIl participation.

8. ¡alle see vero in Rorke's offico he received a taloplione call

Tron Diana Alexandila Cbout 1:30 Al, lue wantod to ropor that a ramant

hed just been lagued in Cusa for tho amust of her boz triend Yones

Pelletier.

Porto described Folletier an a parsonul aid to Castro mose

roal job hal beer to procure soren for Castro and hto analutants.

Pollotler had fallen into diafcior as a remilt of tho story of Castro's

arrals sith the loreno girl harr suurod in Cousidential Mçartno.

"9. At the end of our Interrlew, Russe handod us tho attached list

of 15 names of Podraza's non tho had bocu held by trujillo, All 55 voro

1n Jall 2 veeko egO but accarding to a telaura Mic Rorto Clalca vee

received i July, Iron a brother of one of the nen, only 2) are la custody

LO. If tiere 1a ony Interest in the detailo of Rorie's curren

uben contects, he will be avallable for questioning

JAY B. In. REEVES

Attachinent: as stated above

---

## Page 5

1: Jose E. Podraza Cabrera

2.-

Lutgardo Fartin Ferez

•- Toma: Rodriruez Fuentos

4.- Angel 3. Gandara Rofriguez

5•- Pedro Olivorio Santana

6. - Luls Padron Molina

I. antare Ramon Hachin Molina

O. = cotero Detrado

Mendez

9. Rafael Gutierrez 'Hartinez

10. - Angel Alvarez Granados

Raul Miranda Rodriguez

Sergio Fernandez Echevarria

Andres Eassoly Pozo

El10 Riveron Perez

- Gilberto Azcuy Verea

16

• Saturnino, Espinosa Alfonso

•= Pedro Perez Gonzalez

18.- Rodolfo Diaz Hernandez

19•- Abelardo Montes de Oca Lopez

20. - Margarito Diaz Medina

21.

• Paulino Rodriguez Barrio

22

Luls Sierra Perez

23

Bartolome

Valdes Mauri

Gerardo

Alvarez Maurt

Roberto Pedraza Llanes

Candelario Bravo Guerra

Antonio Fabelo Gonzalez

28

29

30

Heriberto Izquierdo

Heriberto Ravelo Aguiar

Roger Galindo Martinez

Alojandro liayol1 Iglesias

Jose M. Ledo Fernandez

Pulio I. Navarrete Vidal

Maria Della Santos Rivero

HIldelisa Santos Rivero

Georgina Santos Rivoro

Blanca

Maria Ravelo Santos

Armentino Feria Izquierdo

9

Berta Ramirez Crespo

Antonio Policarpo Ochoa

Ismael Gonzaloz Beruvides

Gilberto Morales Criz

Jose Weceslao Maiquez

Emil1o Izquierdo Hernandez

Felipe Hernandez Jorge

116. - Antonio Hernandez Acosta

Luis Valdes Hernandez

48.

Luis M. Abrou Rodriguez

Evello Mulet Torres

50 .

51

52

53€

54

55.

56.

57. -

58. -

60:

Ruben German

del Busto

Amado Rodriguez Rodriguez

Miguel Victorero Gracia

Alfrodo Murillo Fleitas

Sergio Valdes Martinez

Marcos A. Suarez Cruz

Antonio

de la Torre Parodi

Wilfredo Arias Arias

Francisco

Javier. Castrillo jo

Wilfredo Riveron

Kartinez

Erson Martin Carrera

61.- Josquin Funiz Martinez

62--

Juan Fernandez Furo

Bras do Irull Rodrigue:

64. = Jose ile

Virues forag

65•= Conrado Carratala Ugalde

---

