# 104-10193-10131

## Page 1

104-10193-10131

SECRET

888#

FE: 6O

ROUTING ANO RECORO SHEET

PRiOR TO FILING

1.

F111

in Sect

jack. Detach back

2.

flap and forward

Destroy front cover

shoot.

unloss 1t

records significant action

takon.or

conments. requiring presorvation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Is filo no. and title shorn aro not

propor.

insort propor filo no. below

and forward documont to RID/AN.

PHOFER PILE NO.

RID/

MICROFILMEO

Str 6 1903

DOC. MICRO. DER.

31

C.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

PILL IN SECTION 1 OR DACH. IN APPROPELATE

COMMENTA

TH/4 REGISTRY

TO

ROOM

но.

DATE

РОБМАРОГО!

INETIALE

31/4 REGISTRY

2.

1 JUN 1961

JUN 1962

Uh. COPY DETACHED

Eut

2-3!

Eyer diction's

03

03

tiles.

3-4: flare trace inject,

adies WAve iny rizilt.

and riguend them

provede

5 Iu. 61

deir pace.

1O.

12.

11D/1N

R 10/171S

/29 AUG 1963

16

INOLA

AL

BELL-1028 (OLT-JOy8)

Cardid per 13 fame6e.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILHEO

ABSTRACE A

*

INDEX

carding

FiLE TITLE

PRENUMBER PRIMARY CODES

COLUMENT DA

L20-1$"

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFGA 01598

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

maluf, i ravister.

•MICROELLMED

SEr 61903

DOC. MICAO. DEN.

PROCESSING

MAHALD FOR INDIRING

NO INTERINE POURED

ORIO QUALINEE

CAR ROCA IMY NING

AASTRACT

ALCON

F4151440

Chief ef baser

FREUTAND ROTTIS

Action Stuuired: dee partrapla tiree

on 13:8 jil sur dvr-03 renorted that he talied with subjuct, who arrived

In Miami on 9 lar til fron Cuba. ine following inturation was disclosed in the

interview:

BRUSS

associated is:

"raid he had worked in We undircrourd in Cuba and was closely

ne in in December 1900 wher tint Surice began to orcaniz

ner the cried of a roung nan who reportetly was trainod in PoPula got

the purpose is craniaine that service vi thin Cuba.

that aisle working with the tall he travelled to Oriente Province with

this young armiser" for the purpose of miting the revolucionary troups

active in tin: sinvince.

a oscars said that he was in chare of collucttnt infortion from

sources

in tino rol ilo and passing. lt to the M/T overntors who then forwarde

it to

Prive

After the canturo of i Rulin1, chluf o: the underground in Cuba,

texas the secretary of the new chiof, and maintained this position

until 17 april won the mass arosts and the round-up of sevcral of his

calleages

fraid him to go into hiding, lie ought refuge in the Frenen

mbassy

in Harera, and altbough this rearsy does not have the right to grant

asylum, he t's

emitt.d to remain in niding thore as a quest of the embassy.

ihan he sas ario to leave for Porting, the rerch Ambassador personally

escorted hin is the plane.

pairsus believes that the underground in cuba has veen virtually.

put out of essiness by the miolesale arrests caroughout the country. lie

said the sitiscion of the meroirs of the underground uno have not been

arrested is sesperatey as they inve no place to hide.

DRUNSC i sOld ALI-S3 he was vers interestei in workiny for tie causo

in any bar crico.

vistribution:

INOE11

"CADES REFERENCE TO

CLASSITICATAN

SECRET

CATE TYPED-

DATE OrSPATCHED

25 lay ól

DISPAICH SYMBOL. APED NUMBER

VEGA- 1548

MEARUUARTERS FLE NUMBER

19-190-18

---

## Page 3

PAGS TVO

A'OT-83 stated in his ruport of the interview that he could arrange

future .contuct with HRINSCiWIG.

Hase WAVi files contain no reference to Subject. Sefore further

contact with Subject is made,

Base WAfE would appreciate any information

Headquarturs files might contain on bRUiSCisiG.

END CE LASSAGE

15.98

19-126-18

---

## Page 4

14-00000

https://asc-app-01:7002/jtk/boxes/JFK64-28/coversheets

SECRET

DOCUMENT

Box Number:

JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10193-10134

CADRE Ref ID: C00559172

Pub Date:

05/16/1961

Pages:

C00559172

104-10193-10134

SECRET

70 of 105

1/12/2015 1:54 PM

---

## Page 5

ORIG

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

TO

FROM:

CONFi

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

16:2761.22

16-76

HOUTING

06/11ER

8324

16 May 2961

JHAVE

RIDBOCONOE BETTE

BELL 15

COP, ADOP/A, hH, BELL S/C

PRIORITY HAVI

INtO

INZIP BOON

RATS: WAVE 6218 (IN 1904) "

BATE 0574 (OUT 9221)49

AFPROVED PROVIDED NO U.S. PERSONNEL INVOLVED.

(KNID OF MESSAGE)

MAY 16

2200Z. 61

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT

9251

OUT 9251

CITE DIXT BETR

0595

0595

Kit Coment:

Requested approval to mount small boat o

on to extiltrate Internal coordinator of MRI

I Moon

COOROINATINO OURICE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO OPTICA

Copy Ato.

3/PV

---

