# 104-10308-10088

## Page 1

1104-70308-10088]

DISPATCH

FICATION

TO

SECRET

PRO

POSED

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

INFO.

FROM

- PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS

DEST

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

Chief of Station, IMWAVE

SUBJECT

RYBAT/TYPIC/Operational/ AMYUM/FINA

Intelligence Debriefing Reports - Operation FINA

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: None, FYI

REFERENCE: WAVE-6654 dated 30. March 1963

VEERSE 15.

MICROFILMEO

JANS 1YJA

Transmitted herewith, FYI, are copies of

all intelligence

debriefing reports on Operation FINA exfiltrees.

END OF DISPATCH

ACCOM

PLISHED

per COX 41-13

Attachments:

NOT MICROFILiA

Intel

Reports (7)

herewith

The folleri:

..n 15

Signed: -

R.0. #151

Note:

5175,

MOB

destruction,

TitH

roasted aad coordinate

if appropriato..

Distribution:

3 - C/SAS, w/atts/B/W*

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Preluded trom este

Cran Tarine, 99g

•3*4

CLAS

SECRET

14. 131 - 33.

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

12 Apr.

63

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA- 8466

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

! "?

19-132-5-32/3

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SUBJECT

DEBRIEFING

In August 60 Subject begar working in resistance activities in the Propaganda

11KET IN

(DINGINON

Section of the MAR orgonization. In the Propaganda' Section Dibject worked for

Juantia icon zamat

on

reck-endsonly as she wus a school touches in Cuurnt in Dinar del Rio. Her work

was the distribution of anti-government litorature, solling MAR bonds

and

recruiting people for typeofwork in the croa

of Guetes.

In May 61 Subject loft her job as school teacher and came

to

Havens to work

full time for the MRE organization. Although

"Doc! was still assigned to the

Propaganda Section she worked for all coctions

of tho MAR organization rainly

as a courier.

On 26. July 61 Subjoct was involved in an sotion to kill Fidel Castro at the

26th of July coremony et the Plaza Civic: The cotion was to kill Fidel Castro

by firing a bazooke shell at the

e spacer a plaitora: Iiis action

failed because

of a defective firing devise in the bezocki

p.------o60

On returning to abject's residenco,

a militiano halted

the

and demarded

car in wnich subject was a pensenger,

to search

As Eins were

concealed in the car, the militiano was snot and

subject wes

forced to

change

her placeof

residence;

During the period August 61-May 62 Subject Gravulled throughout Cuba with

that th

time was inu Civil Coordinetor foi tau HaS ChaG-dy"

National spointer workere sectional Adole=tu:

Her funotion

was to

provide cover to

the

porson she traviiiied with as the

security forces

would' not normelly check a man travelling with & wonon. Subject remenbered

the following names of cuople that she contected in her

travels:

the Holguin area

Matio was the Senoral Cosidinetor For the MAR in

217:CUN12

В сізн

Conorei Coordinator for Cacusuay Province oF the lui

cene to Hevone.

• tary Coordinator for Oriente Provincopand the inve

GRoup

Excluded from Aarmalli

downgrading and

declasslicatien

---

## Page 3

13-00000

numed joking

in Senting do Crea.

owned a

croll lunch counter in that city an lio place was a meetingplace

for MR resistarccorgunicstion in that. city.

'e

and

in santo Glura, Lea Villas

On May 8, 62 Sibject, was to meet

to finlive arrongements for selling

a car.

stated that if he did not show for the meeting scheduled at

11600

thot

would meet subject. at 1600 Subject net

who stated

ithst

could not moke the meeting as ho

went to meet his wife. NOTE:,

LATER SUBJECT HEARD THAT

IVIRE MADE A CURL TO ONE OF THENPR SAFEHCUSES

AT 2300 AND INCUIRED ABOUT

SUBJECT ALSO STATED. THAT

AS HE HAD NOT 103T

HER ASHAD BEEN ARRANGED.

WIRE GAS A MILITIANO BUT STATED

THAT 2NE

REASON FOR HER BEING -1 MILITIANO WAS TO POOVIDE COVER FOR

-ICTIVITIES.

WHEN I ASKED SUBJECT IF

WIFE WAS A COMMUNISI

SHE STARDO NO.

On 9 May 62 subject vas catactod by

who stated

that her

brother

hed bach arrested, andthat hor brother lad toid her

to alert

others in the MAR orgonization.

subjest tried to catact

but

a strange voice ensuered the telephone and startad to ack question.

broke off

the conversation. At 1400 Subjecü sot with

Subject

and tried to worn other in the Mra orgonization by making telephone

from the: Libra Hote.

on: 12 May 62 Subject wes contacted by

lest name possibly

e muletto who worked wish à stare

at that the

hended the Action section for coordinating guerrilla und

resistance

actions

in the Provincès with the National Exocutive of ths ann.

close to

brought

WEB very

frew HOLGUIN to work with hin in

Haveno

after

wes burned in folguin. After the MAR roll up in May 62,

was in contact with

whe in turn was in direct contact vita

During their conversation

"that day!

inforced abject

of the arreat of

MiR personnel, that he wasin contret with

if she knew who had escaped the Ma roil wa

and

end astied aibjuct

On 23 May 62 Subject vas

contacted b

who in the MER orgonization was

still free. Sutject informed

THAT

---

## Page 4

13-00000

KINGS

the only persons still fou

were

3101910-31S:F

01511.13

cormented that it was a miracle that

had not been

picked up

as he nas a loose talkor and hedpoor

personal security.

subject then arranged

a meeting betweer

then she has not heard fron

during the lotter part of Nay 62. Since

NOTE: WHEN INHINT/27 WAS INFILTRATED

INIC CUBA DURING THE LATTER PARE CE MAY SA HE CONTACTE

During this period Dubject heard that

had arranged a recting with

and when he arrived at tho mecting place le was arrested.

did

not show for this meeting.

During the latter part of May

osilod sibject and

stated that he

had a meeting arranged with

but thst

did not show for the meeting.

A few dayslater SUBJECT heard that

Thod bour arrested.

During the first days of June 62l

contacted subject and informed her

that.

had informodon

stated thot an effort

should be made

to reorganizo the MRR. Taroughl

Sabject had hoard

that

jed Coordo Bation of the N99 vas trians to

repreanize the Matred men are detecr

and

This meeting

took place in a public pork with SUEJEOT

and

INFORMED BY

of

the Student

Section presort.

NOTE:

28: 62138

A CUBA SEX

SISTER OF

IN MARCH 63 SUBJECT WAS

HE HAD

BEEN SHOWN

SURVEILLANCE

PICTURES OF SUBJECT

AND OCTOPUS LET ING

IN A PUBLIC

PARK.

To

SUBUECT'S XNOWLEDGE THIS HAD BEEN THE CHLY CANE ONE FAD

MEN

IND IS

FOSITIVE THAT THE SURVEII, LANCEPICTURO MAS TAXON

OF

THE NEETING IN THE

PUBLIC

PARE IN MID JUNE O&:

_WAS ARRESTEN IN MAX 62 AND WAS IMPRISONED IN LA

CABANA PRISON WHERE HE COULD BECEIVE VISITORS. At this meeting subject stated

that

Was going to appearon television priort

appearanceon

T.V.

NOTE: ALTHOUGH

AND

NERE CIOSELY CONNECTED WITE THE

NATIONAL EXECUTIVE OF THE URR NEITHER WORE ARRESTES IN TRE KAY 62 ROLL UP.

Subject stated that during the KAP soll up ano vos never

arrested or to

her knowledge surveilled. Subjoct did not try to hide as

she hed no eafehouse

---

## Page 5

13-00000

or contacts. to utilive. Subject is positive

that

the G-2 could have

arrested her, at any time if and wen they cccided

it was necessary.

Subject stated that the

women arces vod

in

the MRE roll up were all

released.

Subject believes that

she was

not arrested because of

the Cuban government. policy. not to arrest

and imprison women involved

in the NRi reciotonoo organization, and becuese she was only a courioi

in

the organization.

Subject was informed in March 68 by

brother

that her

had been shown mmerous surveillance pictures of

Subject and

by Cuban interrogators in la Cabana

prison:

The interrogators wanted

to identily the peopio

In the photographs making contact

with Subject

and

stated that an interrogator named bALmEIno had

süatiod son s

to

that. the Cuban security forces lner everything that was

going on in the resistance movenent. They permitted these resistance

organization to organize and exisi vati? it was decided to roll up

the group. SALGUEIRO cited as an example a suali in group that had

reorganized itself after June

62 uncor the leadership

of

and

In February 63,

was arrested:

SALGUEIRO also stated that the boother

was distributing MRR money to differoni peonie in Havana.

Lexecutel

Altér AMBRONC/5 was killed during the laüher part of August 62,

was arrested by the G-2, kept in prison for a month

and then

released. Since ther Subject ha: seen

in the streets of llavana

but has not had contact with him

since August 62.

From July 62 - until her extiltration subject has not participated

in any clandestine work.

---

