104-10186-10160

neene

REMAP ONGREPORTIM(INEORMA
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Th scatertal contains informanee aFerasg the Kerirua! Dofvass of the Catted Statre within the menaing of the Bqaossy Lara Te
DAC Seca THY and DE Ue wacemimtod oF rrenetiog Of WRIA IA AMY MANDEY to ea UEQuLbwrend perme la roAtbiled OF law,

SECRET
NO PORBIGN DISSEM

COUNTRCUda . RPORTNOQ = CSC1~316/01253-65

SUMECT "Maria Antoria™ (an alias) OATE DISTR = «1S March 1965)

aT? on NO. PAGES}

EN 4 US! :
RET un ge nerenencts —o50311/00115-64

pact gg ROP (Page 11) y
DATE OF oo 8 July 1964
INFO, 1964 :
Washington, D. C. i
DATE aca. March 1985, FIELD REPORT NO.

THs 1S UNEVALGATED Se"OMmATION, SOURCE GRADINOS AME DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Catan IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. :

Headquarters Comsents

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information frovided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individests mentioned in the personality reports without
first checkirg with this Agency.

1, "Maria Astonia" ts employed in the MI Section (Department
of Technical Operational Support) of the Direccion General de
Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2, "Maria Antonia" was born between 1920 and 1925, ts about
five feet six inches tall, weighs 140 pounds, and has a stout
build. She has a white complexion, brown hair with some grey in
it; a round face, and a short, thick nec. 1

Headquarters Comment

1. The recarés of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable
information on “Maria Antonia."

meena

SECRET cd
NO FOREIGN DISSEM paanked

wae Tow we eae Tse aR oe TE
“RES” CINCLEN: _CINCSO_# IENS i

[Rise Tais dierbnce ndvowe

AX e5it
[NO PROJECT (AMMUG/1
i, CSCI-316,01253

H | oe

(1), Ch 4, RID 1 eee



None

‘This mawrn: cootaine informstion aifecting the Neticae! Defeat of the United Sister within te mensing of the
WL USC Seca 795 and 794 the tranaaimion or rerviatiog of which {2 any mAnter to an Uretdurtend pew

“countecuba

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ECR
JNO FORETGN BISSEM.

suBect"Maria Antonia” (an alias)

DATE OF,
INFO, 1964

aWasbington, D. C.

Date AcQ.March 1955
PES _UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE

seP08T NO. \ Sc1-316/01253-65
oare DISTR. «18 March 1965

NO. PAGES =}
REFERENCES €$-311,/00115-64
(Page 11)
8 July 1964
FIELD REPORT NOL

INITIVE, _APPEAGAL OF CONTENT 18 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Commenta

The following report is one of n series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

oa

2.
build.

“Maria Antonia" is employed in the MI Section (Department
of Technical Operational Support) of the Direceion General de
Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

"Maria Antonia" was born between 1920 and 1925, 1s about
five feet six inches tall, weighs 140 pounds, and has a stout
She has a white complexion; brown kair with some grey in
it; a round face; and a short, thick neck,

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this ‘agency reveal no additional identifiable

sshaehen abc on "Maria Antonia,"

$
4
SECRET ERT 3
. NO FOREIGN DISSEM niet F
wae Toe Tamar ry Ta Tae TaN oa pr 2]
REP CINCLANT. CINCSO # ~ ISNS

‘Wot, Bald donitenrs maiegied ty 2

“NO PROJECT (AuMUd /1
1 CSCI~316/'01253465

WH WAVE

voras WHC S

sq),

ita
WEL (1), Cf

4. RID LT

yj6R


ren)

FORMAT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This matere: coptains information sfecting the ational Defense of tbe Usited Sais within the meaning of the Rapionage Lawe Tite
MCU BC Gera. 703 and 196, the trenemioton oF rereietion of which in any manner to a8 Unauihuriend person te prohibited by law

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Report NO. CSc1-316/01253-65

cOuNTRCuba
subect "Maria Antonia" (an alias) OATE DISTR. = 18 March 1965
: NO, PAGES 1
REFERENCES: CS-311/00115-64
(Page 11)
DATE OF, ogg 8 July 1964
puce aWashington, D, C. fae teroe a:

DATE ACQ.March 1965

THIS 15_UNEVALUATED INFOMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ASE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE,

source A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1966. eee

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It 1s requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. "Maria Antonia 1s employed in the MI Section (Departnent
of Technical Operational Support) of the Direccion General de
Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGL).

2, “Maria Antonia" was born between 1920 and 1925, is about
five feet six inches tall, weighs 140 pounds, and has a stout
build, She has a white complexion; brown hair with some grey in
it, a round face, and a short, thick necx.

Headquarters Comment .

1. The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable
information on "Maria Antonia,"

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

me he

Tay ——Tae Tsao

REP CINCLANT.

CINCSO # I&NS

= ~ Tora Tawar

(Note: Feld disribution Indleored by “2 7)

KO PROJECT (AMMUG/1

[| cSct-316 01253465

i} a

‘a WH/C 8 (1), WE

ID 1 Titanow @

1), Cr 4,

