104-10186-10178)
wars

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

‘This material contams tufrmasee afecung the ations! Defense of tne Cutled Sieiee within the meaning of Ge Fuuwery Lava Tite
TRUBS Boca TH ane TOL the tramsentasion of reveletion of which tx aay mnanner to an UNBULDOTLENL FEN te erverted by law

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316. 90731-65
SUBJECT Gustavo LNU (aka: “LinoY) DATE DISTR. 16 February ate
NO. PAGES: a 4
pet TANS nhpertences cS-311_ 0015-64
OAIE OF eg Bee eer) Be geryised \
pace a Washington , D. C. :
OATE ACQ. December 1964 FIELD REPORT NO. :

Tis 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GEADINGS APE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT & TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Serkice until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing pepsonalaty
information provided by the source and includes supplemeatal

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

1. Gustavo LNU, aka "Lino," is an official of the Departamaato

Tlegal (Illegal Department) in the Direccion

General de

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence ~ DGI}.

2. Gustavo LNU is a Cuban citizen and was born about 1937
or 1938. He is six feet tall, weighs 140 pounds, had has a

thin build. Gustavo's ethnic type is Latin;

he hag a dark

complexion, baack, wavy hair which he wears in a duckga?}, small,

black eyes, thick eyebrows, a thin, straight

nose, a larse. thin

face, and @ long thin neck. He has thin lips and a smaii mouth

which appears to be disfigured when he talks

and laughs. Gustavo

resides at Calle 20 de Mayo, number 428, Apto 74, Habana,

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Gustavo.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

rear)

wwe me

STATE Tow Atay, Twavy Tar

REP CINCUANT CINCSO_#__ IRBS

(Note Field digwitynen mcwoned by 8)

~ omen BS
vere wHOSA 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID I Sang b=

9-5-1
