# 104-10074-10299

## Page 1

104-10074-10299

y1964

HMMA: 2308

FROM 1 US Lawmance F.T Barker

2208

SUBJECT 130

Meeting with|LITAMIL-9, 30 Jan 1961

none of his usual depression.

aL-A reported" or

the fallming:

On Saturday 18/Jan at the usual Embassy staff mesting, several

now assignments were passed out a "throe month plant was

amounced and during this period staff members, in addition sh

totheir.cal.duties, will/prepare special reports on/several l

priate

toplese Raul APARICIO vill do report on the National Univereity

physical plant,istudent body, activities, ways in which the Cuban

*government can exert influence, etce

Pine wrel

I ties

TRAVELID

3723

nations with Cuba emphasizing how contact with representatives

here in Medeo of such countries my be parlayed into sonething

013 lore worthwhtle for the Castro government. Rogello RODRIGUEZ una

given an assignment as Political Reporting Officer sane

207

DAME ERS:

At this meeting. Guillermo RUIZ: of the Comercial Office - who has

096023

recently been energing as a fanatical Fidellata - spoke out about

the recent accord between the ISS and Cube, saying that it wag

convenient for the USSR to keep on the good side of Cuba and thug :

Arras, somerhat taken aback by RUIZ! language, pointed out that the

relationship between the ISSR and Cuba is based, above all, on the

highest principles of international friendship.

bor

Last Wednesday (29 Jan) a Sovist official, Boris T.

the Cultural Department and spoke with APARICIU and L-o

1-9 took

pains to "be a good Communist" during this encounter. Tinta con- i

versation was picked. up by MiTRAP) RUDEND was aldo at the heme of

Horacio FLOPES Sanchez on the 28th after the Marti bomage sossion

at the Cuban Celtural institute.

A BOlivian van - nans pOsgibly VILLALBA - Has recently at the

Hotel Oxford with 7 children,

waiting to go to caba to jodm hey

husband uno vorke there. Labelieves she has gone on to Caba.

de

On 17 January Cuban delegates to the CEPAL Conference visitod tho

Embassy and spoke with. Embassy employees. One of these delegates,

referring to the Nicaro plant in Cuca, said that only 12 engineery

of the orizinal 37 remained.

Of trese, a man named (fau) PRESILIA

was atill doing an excellent job although he 1s physically la poor

condition. The Nicaro plant specifically, and technielans throughout

Cuba in general, are having a hard tine with the decimal system used

by the USSR In Its technical eguipment.:

• The delegates said that

SECRET

201-291531

1/24.

#10489

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRE

0-(Bma) ComETA Inchaustezal told APRICIo

other day thats 60 homoseruals: had beon

the imbassy tee

clenned out Of HRs

18540

WAS IrON LICKDIAZ Ordas: CONCEPCION said, "I sar itaith

ona eyes, the envelope: had DIAZ Ordas! nasa on 1t." as

On 29 Jan a Venesuelan iroman rned Susana BS-JARANO camo to the

Embassy. She was staying at the Hotel VIrreyes, Room 402. She

was trying to sell exhibition rights to a flin entitlod "Tist.

Crimen" which had been fined in Venerala and showm only twice

before,the soverent sout do and probinted future shodage.

labelling the in as of inproper social tendencies: EB JARANO p

said, that she planed to stay in Mexico about a week and vould ala

contact the Soviet and Crech babassi ein an effort to soll the

ap some of the cost of producing

relayed

Babe

on 284 Jam

om: 29

P.808

11336

1808

The

of people ah

APARICIO, Casto

not want to go for some reason unknown to L9, While at FLORES

p1a00, I: 9]saw that Raul PEREIRA "Razito" seemed very Intereste

Rogello dousn't seen to trust me.

Madron dina padere

9. 82C

to Cube..

serious.

fter Teress PrOINZA Mas seen off at the sisport, Osear CONCEPCIO

"revenled"

bat she hal been fired on orders of Preaident DORTIC

RS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

183)

18187

1. 8360

Brazil

HEDGES

82810

CUBAN

Aste

her a persona

Letter ddrassed to DORTICOS teresar

1L-9 about this but

warned bin not. to tell anyone PAPARICIO

on wednesday and Pursday (29 sad 3o a) maste a colores

of the Commercial: Section, was grumbling about the "dids" wbo

supposed work there — RUIZ, CONCEPCION, and GARCIA - but

who can't seem to geti anything done and only succeed In neusin

up paper: URBIETA vas gita disgustad.

12388 12204

villermo Ruki has been showing hinself to be gulte aggressiv

politically in staff meetings.

Ho appeara to be a violen

partisan of the Castro regina

IN CHAS

MIRABAT, has been less aggressive than before, haa recently been

down in the dumps and has been spending a lot of tire talling:

to Dra. MACHADO. The Ambassador told Dra. MACHADO that MURABAL

and Mezdcan, food don't get along together e

Felipe BOJAS, Mexican employed on the cultural Sectione

handles distribution of Castro propaganda to people who vialt the

Embasaxe

has been given a deals in the Cultural Section, This ma

only carna about: 5 pesos pesos per month. L-9 SAYS: THAT ROJASS.

COULD BE BOUGHT IS AVAILABLE! ROs, about 28-30 Jearal old.

ot SOLORZAND bas ratumed fros Cube There 1o some talk tha

he idght mary Jesus SOTOy In Cuba, although she is much olde

SOTO 19 30mg Cort of Teaderie Perhape a Labor leader there

On Sunday 26 Jan a group of Chinese acrobats pald a courtesy.

visit to the Enbassy., The leader of this group said that Senator

On Monday 27 Jan DOlOreS DE INDRA was at the Enbagsy.

She said

and that she had seen an envelope which DIAZ Ordas sent to the

Amb, She appeared to be quite upset that Victor RICO Oalan had

been Invited to Cuba but that she had not. She wants to laterla

Fidel CASTO again, HEDGES: 13 an American citizen, 11ves 13

Insurgente: Sur 724, Pt 10, 23-41-54, One daughters Ma, Toros

An Anerican naned Fred BALDASARE, a srirming champion, bas bee

In the Embassy tryng to Implenent his plan to swin trom Cuba, to:

Florida and set a nes world record. APARICIO remarked tolL'9

that 1f they lot this nut. trais a Cuban to mako this swin (as he

wants to do) 1t rould probably result in thousands of Cabans doin

the sane thing to got out. (LIENVOI and MIRAP have picked i

BAT-DASARE) •

Some joungsters from a group called: the

"Movimiento Caltural

Embassy.

Ice-President Te Rune loville, phone 21-17-6

• addresa Avardd

They had

July 1963 nas proof of the

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

oxtent of their love for the Cuban people." L-s doed not

know much about this group, feels it bears larestigating:

3. [l asked B to got him a book about the painter Arantle CORT. Thia

book 1s published by the Whitaoy Musan of Americas Art, The Macmillas Company,

Now Jork, 1957. It will be ordered from EQS separately.

La The seeting had to bo outi short, since. B tad, to go elsenhero to meet and

asaests an agent prospoct a ho wan planing to leave Medico City the next morning.

Accordingly, It was agroed. that another meeting youdf be bald on luesday 4 Pedrumr

st 2000 at the sale apartment LIll be paid his January, salary at that ture?

uce F Barto

---

