—
SEcner

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

Chief J KUsoDA

hief gf Station, SMWAVE,
F TER LPBRUMEN J

'LUTTER Results UrGa= 15349 40 i. :
Action: : :
1. “Forwarded herewith (RYBAT) for the followin;

LOFLUTTER
reports with below list of IRD numbers and, if available, 201
mumbers with cryptonyms: :

201_NUMBERS

)

eee ed
(AMISLE/3)

's fine

108739 Fearceapea)
ben Farce

ae L (anwoos1)
Identities of the above reports are forwarded as-a
sparate cover attachzent.

EMD OF DISPATCH

Attachments:

A. Reports (RYBAT)
B. Identities (RYBAT)

tio:

KUSODA[w/att A/1-9 manne B/1-9 wsle
= SAS w/O atts.

Bbrast6 fF -

| THIS COPY I$ HOT:
FOR RELEASE.



a ee

| maste SORuEINT ED W_2e/— ts en”

1 7 é apr ef i
| Lureaiss19/os | mmsdtzrey i
real

: 3 Ce He
evi A Geli)

AG April 1964

Subject: Iden A

Subject was interviewed and tested on 16 April 1064 at a
eave sitg in the Minai area at the requeat offfenry FP,
[Remon Phe taterview vas conducted in English,

perked previous to that time Subject was cooperating wit!

1s currently being used by PY as @ source of informa~

Subject bas been favolved with KUBANK since 1959, Ki a
ties on the Cuban exile ccamunity,

The excuse for testing Subject

was that he was being coumidered for training, actual pa!
Of the interviow was to resolve issues raised by(I:MAVEALDESKO
are detailed in WAVE 2672, dated 26 Feb: 1964.
urs ie
Sabject has worked only tor Fiera ana He has never
@eoperated in any way with any iftelligence fe: ‘a Of any other.

ry. has never been askec. to cooperate with eny 6
eoutrolied intellizenes service.

omnis
does_not ake intelligense 7
reports to any one ether than, * Sypjeot Re a
lest: camunication with anyone outside! PRPRI He is net
ona with anyone whom he suspects of being @ Ci agent,
Be tas sever taken part in any cenmumiat activity.

Subject stated that 1¢ ts widely im ameng the Cuban exile.
@ourunity that be is ia tench wit! The fact that this is
known ie partly ubat enables his ‘eu intersation whieh is of
interest ie jeat stated that no thas four or five
Americans ow Of @lvoment with KUBANK.] Ameng them ie

eu Be

Subject was asked ite if ated im eny way vith

be
individuals Living eutsice Bruit Y He stated that the ealy |
individes! te thet eategery @ former Cubam CTC menber by tue *’-
Meme of Idea C whe presently works for the Alliance for Preares:
Idea C is mow believes te be im Honduras, Subject. stated thet
WSle CGumssiontes with her family in Cobe tet ‘Subject: stated.

Caat.
bo fe positive ake dees not discuss any of his activities im these {
ations. - iieetateveiatat . 5 t i

Subject stated that his wife is fully imovledgeable otfate]
activities, 7 be

Subject was asked whether he had any agreesent te oseperate
with any ef the exile erganizations, He stated that in the Ce:mal

sense of the be Bo oi Sxreezent but that he was ideelecically |
Ctrmitted tofannt buy, ty the OULD Jorcenteeties, Sehjest states. a
L avon ‘

ae cry 201-25168 9,



i
i
{

<5 emma ee 4 mn mOsm tees

- @ 66810 -*
16 April 196¢
i Pago.2

thet ho has not had any contact wstnpoonor/i ince he was told
to sover his connection in February -, Ho Tloes, however,

occasionally see MESA and BARRO. From his renarke it is.quite -
obvious ibe Subject has a creat deal of affection aad respect. for.

AMDIDOY/167 Subjeot gtated that ho bas done nothing recently to... -

iotivoly wupport the/AMORLD] group but that would not hesitate .
to tell anyone, if y asked, that he feltJANvORLD[ was worthy of ©
all the support that the inquirer could give.

Subject stated that he also has a great deal,of respect for.
the 30th of Nevenber Hovewent, is contact with that croup is > .~
Idea D, Subject tas only known Iden D for about two nonthe and that
incidentally was the reason why Iden D's nase does not. appear on.
the list ef Subject's contacts given to the Station in 1944; 5.

Im @ discussion of whether er not Subject Atnonssendrtmanx )
business with anauthorized persons, Subject stated that CC
fot believe he was priyy to what might be considered classifica .
inferastion bearing oa‘ etivities, He pointed cut that
his information gather! ectivities necessitate a certaia ancunt
of give and take vhioh involves bringing infersation to the
attention of certain indivicusls in erder te cheek their reaction

te that faformtion. Subject not made any deliberate effort
te obtain information regard: tivitios from hie ecataste

@weng the Cuban groups whe wor!

Cie the discussion ef blackmail potentialities Sub; etated
that he bad once been intinate with the wife of Idea £,] ie stated
that as fer as he knows Idem Eis not-aware of this, but that Iden &
ence told hin that he bad iled_ derozatery infermation regarding
Subject ond ferwarded it to effigials.

Subject atetod that ho Move at least the follev ra]
by tree mime: Iden P, Iden G, Icen H, ond Idem 1,

Sudject stated that he might recall cthers if he heard the
Manes. Subject dees net know the same or location of the KUBARK
bese in Missi

Eunjcot stated thet he bas always felt that KUBAIK has cex- —*
sidered @ Cubam rather than an American. He wished te enke it
very olear that he dees. net consicer.. elf .a. Cuban. bat os the

eentrery considers. hineel! a= Ascrs:

Subjoct-stated-thet be fott-that Sooo ark ves wot’ ciltcing hin

te the fallest extont of his abilities. Ile Stated that ke desirse
becouse permanent KUBANK asset jand tliat he weuld like very cush
te be utilised, after the appropriate training, im the PH field, 2

tha <8



“SECRET WEA

: ~“§ 6es10
if 16 ba pe nites
( he ceed ~ Grey. ee, MORE erry ay
 Xden B » Yssgere a
Iéen C | Denne antiaas > ae

den D J siren oomauzs 7
Iden £ (, Yieas noses 7
— fa
me LY

iéeat C pana hrs

p Rca oo sta
erie
Span 153497 fo}

