# 104-10110-10042

## Page 1

104-10110-10042

SECRET

SUBJECT:

BARTES; (CLARENS), Francisco Antonio

aka BArisa, Trant

(See dilse HEMMING, Gerald P.)

ALT ELATION!

To date there had been no

Information which Involves Frank

BARTES, Cuban exile, In GARRISON'8

Investigation. However, as a Few

Orleans citizen who was proudnent

In Cuba, opposed to CASTRO, bead of

the Cuban Revolutionary Council In

New Orleans, and known to Gerald

HEMMING and LABORDE, be may be in-

volved later.

SOURCE:

Memorandun dated 20 November

195T from CI/ReA and Enclosure 14

of Memorandun I0. 5 dated Y August

1967.

aJFK

" Bondo

vol

28 December 1967

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

ON

RELEASE IN PART necessary to

TOTAL DENIAL /

w/Af

CIA CONNECTION:

CIA

to prote

Bubfeot, an allen, former

President of Cuban Railways, was

approved for contact use In January

1961 and May 196Te The FBI Inter-

posed no objections to these contacts.

He was to turniah Information eon

verning Cuban rallways. Fe was

granted a Provisfonsl Operational

Approval on i January 1961 for

contact and assessment for use on

Project JNATE. Thie approval was

cancelled 31 Augut 1961. On

T October 1965 Subject was granted

anotber POA for use 88 «

He vas covertly Investigated

with favorable results and received

an

He returned to the United States on

11 February 2966 and bie clearance

was cancelled 28 October 1966.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

Subject le 47 years old (born 14 September 1920 1n Savana,

Cuba). He was formerly President of Consolidated Railways Or Cuba

and also owned sugar and rice plantations.

He left Cuba because of

h1s opposition to CASTRO and entered the U. S. on 4 January 1961.

(An FBI report dated 14 June 1963 from New Orleans, Loulsiana concerned

a visit by BARIES to the New Orleana FBI office in which he offered

his services to the U. S. Government and said he would be willing to

cooperate with the U. S. Government In any acceptable plan the U. S.

•might devise to combat CASTRO's government with no thought of personal

gain or lavor. On 20 December 1966 BARTES called the New Orleans DCS

office to Inform that office that his mother had arrived from Cuba

and would be willing to provide Information. He also stated that a

cousin, a 29 year old Cuban ballerina, Allela Cruz BUSTILLO, not a

Cormunist and still residing In Cuba.

I There 1s 10

record of Alicia CRUZ BUSTILIO In OS Indices and no indication that

these offers were acceptable by the Agency.

see FBI 6/15/93

6100P 1

SECRET

Exclated trem aramstic

denigrading ted

declassifleatles

3/

RE.1906

99 4980186391

Do No: ReD Tie

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECKEl

DETAILS:

In dune 1962 Frank BARTES reported to our New Orleans DCS

office that lawrence Joseph LABORDE, Gerald I. HYMId, Jio, and

Howard Kenneth DAVIS called on him and sald they wanted to trats

Cuban refugees as guerrilla Iighters and denolition experts for

use In Cuba. BARIES reached an agreement with LABODE who, be said,

was anti-CIA.

Subject was head of the lew Orleans Cuban Revolutionary

Council. A "States-Iten" article for 21 July 1962 reported that

cerald l. fintid, aka Jerry PATRICK, "howed sp In' New Orleans

apparently at the Invitation of local Cuban Nuvolut onery Conci

Leaders and other Cubans who winted to take direot sotion against

CASTRO. " The article related how "PATRICK" made regular tripa 11 and

out of New Orleans and was supplied with machine guns, explosives and

other wilitary nupplies. HIMLIO, aka PATRIC, agreed to set up a

the "gIATES IT'EN" account.

-2-

SECRET

---

