# 104-10107-10137

## Page 1

104-0107-10137

: 3.

(

OGC 69-0181

31 January 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Herbert Itin

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

I. A meeting was held on 27 January 1969 with Messre.

Rocca, Houston, Warner and myself to discues the ramifications

of the confrontation with the New York FBI office on 17 January.

It was concluded that additional information was required on

03

and

Di I contacted the Director

of Security and requested the security files on these two individuale

and was advised that we could not have the security files but that

MI. Ward Greene would bring the files to the office and diacues

their contents openly.

032. On 29, Janyary, MI. Greene brought the security files.

pand

and was most cooperative in explaining

their contents.

Attached in a chronological rundown on the

pertinent information on

affiliation with

the FBI, CLA and Itlin.

3. On 30 January a meeting was beld with Mesers. Houston,

Warner, Rocca, and

CCS/LPGLOBE, to discuss

the operational use of Mr.

has been a

Staff Agent of CIA since 28 August 1961.10 From March 1964 to

Novemberm1964 he spent time in

writing a monograph

problems.

It should be noted that this

task was pertormed under a grant from a foundation which was

blown in the MHDOWEL exposures. In November 19641

was assigned for Cover to the

Iataff where he remained until March 1965 and then went

to

12-10

SECRET

---

## Page 2

The facts in the attached chronolor are subject to

question since they are the result of

own explanation of

his affiliation with Itkin rather than having been determined from

independent sources. The most critical aspect would appear to

be the knowledge or suspicion that Itlin may have known of

aff liaton with Itin The knowledge le borne out by

the strange way in which Ithin repeatedly bringe

into the atory which itlan develops about hie CIA affiliations.

One of the questions, to be answered by LFGLOBE personnel is

whether or not

reported his activities with Itkin in Geneva,

Switzerland, in March 1966.

There appears to be no record of

having explained why he never pursued the Itkin debt or

what his financial contribution was to the

00

5. Mr. Rocca was advised by M.. Sam Papich of the FBI

that the New York District Attorney may be coneidering prosecution

against

for having absconded with funde received from

negligence cases. We do not have sufficient information to evaluate

the likelihood of criminal prosecution. It may be necessary to

discuss this problem with representatives of Mr. Hogan's office.

Alo

6. With regard to

there appear to have been

two operational considerations, one having been a request to use

him with Project DIPILLAR from November 1953 to February

1955, and then a request in 1963 by the Domestic Operations

Division for his use on Project WUBRINY. In March 1964 DO

Division advised Security that

was not going to be used

on WUBRINY. Mi. Rocca commented that there are some rather

ominous allegations against members of the firm af

indicating that one member of the firm was a card-

carrying member of the Communist Party. At the present time

MI. Rocca is lovestigating the DTPILLAR use of MI.

06

JOHN K. GREANEY

Assiatant General Counsel

Attachment TI

12/p/

---

