# 104-10178-10017

## Page 1

104-10178-10017

di:d

1O

Chlor, Ms

2% 15-14

221409410

interesable titio

201-=36564

FROM

Gatl

& september 1y58

trace request a doso harle Andro *Malkal, ala Andre

*MANhE (1 October 191%, Leremburre)

riormoul pricrity A trices on suuject and faully (see

- balond

MARLIO FOR MOLINO

NO NOTINO MOUFLO

INDINING CAN BE IDGEO

BY QUALINO NO DESA ONLY

Le Priority a traces arm requested on subject who latno (BANNER I

Informant reforred to in para 2 of LI) 0010.

Des anding on the outcome of

ane traces, it 10 planned to use subject

as an Arent provocateur and/or a

double agant against the soviota.

8. 'WRANNEN 1 has knew dulject dinçe the esrly 1950s when subjeot

was a successful azuler. whichat 3 and luthis Llused Subjoct as an

normer on the activitles or other archers and that In Wixembourg

ubjoct so financlally Indebted to QUBANNut 1 who has loaned him monay t

got startod in a la jitinate businese. (In adaition, SIANNER 1/know a

Lot about Subjoct's past Illegal activities, which micht conceivably be used

agrinst subjoct. Subject has many and varlod contacts mong 1lloial tradera

nd vetty criminala da wall a

a doscribed by the lanal quick thinkor and to too can shink on he roots

rehan the question arose as to

WINNER lougestod subjoct orio a quitable candidate for provocatour night bo.

WBANNet 3 was then called in and without

hesitation he a swered

tno save question Immodiatoly with Subjects name.

the queation was put to kArNan 5 who 18 more conservative in hia judgent

than other (WiNsteil I or 37 ho also apreod that subject was the ideal choice.

According to

the Willink assesument of jibject, he 1s the type of jerson sho

Naud a-peal to bAlbAOY ounconautar and since we have been bearching for

a scans of probing into KGD activities In Luxembourg, Subject may well be the

mall for the jobo

Il wa use subject for this purpose, and 1f at any time dur ng

the queration 1t should become evident that we are not getting anywhere or that

suujoct 19 not the man for the job, we shall drop the

¡ and close station superviaion.

Subject will be care; ully assested and borlared by the stin inder constantly.

Gaaron and durant eation on Subjoct 1s as sallouse do 1a tha son of TAlE

He 18 married io simone Jianne nes proUIS lIEuT

rovenber 1912e la Chanello, Leunayad. subject presently lives 1n Hedance-Attert,

Luxembourge

ANNAKEL -

Please cable any cerogutory intormation.

Otherwise, & pouched reply

will sutiice.

# illegalactorty

5 september 1958

Distributions

3- MB

2{[ux] 15-18

hek. Coldthorp

is tiri

"anl

§' IO: 7ü-18

1 53

201-1736584

Pace now.

I camaro

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

16/0

---

