# 104-10051-10170

## Page 1

1104-10051-10170]

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III

15 November 1971

ANNEX B

THE 201 SYSTEM

Rescission: Annex B of Chapter III, CSHB 70-1-I, 27 October 1966

1. INTRODUCTION

The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific in-

terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent

information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying

subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for

producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-.

tively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify

opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and

CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-

zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volume of corre-

spondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a. The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1234567, assigned to each

individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that

individual.

b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form

831) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e, per-

sonal history, current status, and prospects.

c. The Master 201 Record: a machine record generated by the opening of

a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Index and

stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved' for special listings.

d. Main Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an

Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent

within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be moved up and the ref-

erence consolidated.

23

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

0002 CROIX, WILLIAM

PENDLETON

SEX M DOB 12 APR 26

Кров

GER, BERLIN S

CIT GERM

OCC PHARMACIST

REF

AACD-1,2345,

20 JUN

53

OCC

CODE CHES

_SUBJECT RECENTLX ATTENDED

CONEERENCE

THE

THE SEVENTEENTE ANNUAL

INTERNATIONAL

ASSOCIATION OF CHEMISTS

AND

PIIARMACISTS HELD IN MUNICH,

GERMANY FROS 22 THROUGH

29

DELUBS.

NOV 70

0083353

201-0032671*-

TYPE NAME T-

OI CODES AN XX-

RCD DATE 53

Information About Subject

1. Sequence Number and Name

2. Sex and Date of Birth

3. Citizenship

⅘. Place of Birth

5. Occupation

6. Occupation Code

7. Test

Document

Reference Date Group

8. 201 Number

9. Name Type Indicator

10. Or Codes

11. Record Date (year only)

12. Reference

ISC Control Information

13. Date of latest update of the record

14. STAR Index Record Number

24

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

e. Ol Code: a tvo letter symbol used in conjunction with the 201 per-

sonality records in the 201 system to record the association of an individual

with organizations or activities of operational interest. Of codes cover intelli-

gence and security service affiliation, whether staff or agent, or known or

suspect, as well as activities of DDO interest. There are two categories of OI

codes for use by components:

(1) general OI codes (Attachment 4)

(2) OI codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services

or other specific organizations.

À component may request an OI code be established by submitting a mem-

orandum to the DDO/RMO through the component Records Management

Officer.

A 201 personality may be assigned two OI codes. An OI code may be assigned

when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see

paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added

at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201.

personalities._by.Ol.codes: For example,.it.an Ol code has been opened, for. the

security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members

of that service.

f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on

names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers

exist.

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER

a. General

The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational com-

ponent, in coordination with the Information Services Group. An opening creates

a master 201 record. Changes to the master record and the occasional closing

of a 201 dossier are controlled jointly by the desks and ISG. 201 dossiers may be

opened on persons who meet the carding criteria described in Chapter II of this

handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information

will be acquired and filed in such à dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on

persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-

sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those

persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals

are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened on staff

employees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on

25

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk

and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO

records systém and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require

ments on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain categories of persons whose

names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listed in Attachment 2. 201

dossiers should be opened in the following categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval and operational ap-

proval requests. However, a file need not be opened when a POA is requested

for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-

tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than

denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Mair Index search reveals information in five

or more documents (see DOI 70-20). -

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/

ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting

a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main-

tenance Section (IP/RMS). Form 831 is also used to create or amend the

master

201 record and 201 machine listings and to register the assign-

ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of sample

201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field

station may request the opening of a 201 file by writing 201- in the Head-

quarters file or cross-reference box on the dispatch form and/or after the

subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening

is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by

placing 201- after the term "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN

will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-

bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of

201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

Intormation about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into

his dossier. When additional information is discovered on a 201 subject through

a name trace or other process, i.e., review of predecessor documents, it must

be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOI 70-20 for consolidation

procedures.

Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited to:

a. 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831).

b. Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints, and

handwriting samples.

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II..

d. Operational and other security approvals.

"...

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

+ Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

i. Secrecy agreement.

j. Agent Duty Status Report.

k. Training and evaluation.

1. SGSWIRL report.

m. Newspaper clippings.

n. Any information which helps provide a better understanding of the

subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting.

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which

have been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which

have not. Record documents may range from newspaper or magazine articles

on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.

26.1

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

a. Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires

discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material, rather than the

simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take

place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done

periodically. A 201 dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should

be purged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:

(1) Duplicate material, i.e., exact copy(s) of a document.

(2) Name trace form (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for

the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information it

a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number

then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch

cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy-doements which only repeat substantive information

contained in other documents in the file, authorization for destruction is

by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to. be retained in a 201 dossier

forwarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention

in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized

officer in the originating office or the Records Officer having jurisdiction

over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification

authority. If the document cannot be downgraded the file should be retained

at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained

in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a

cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location

of the TS document.

• (9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.

In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201

26.2

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash

number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are

to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to IP/RMS for classification

(3) Field index cards (held by some desks) and area desk cards may

be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards

should be mounted on a full-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201..

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff

employee and which contains Record Copy documents will be restricted to

the ISG/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be

closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true

name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest

should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material

has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified

* to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an

OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and

Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing

(8) Desk memoranda (with or without a document source number)

containing substantive or derogatory information on the subject of the 201

should be sent to. IP/AN to be classified officially into the 201 file.

(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic document

for inclusion in a 201 personality dossier will be forwarded with the basic

document to IP/AN for processing into the 201.

(10) To retain the P&, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document

remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document

in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L.,

от POK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will

automatically be handled as desensitized. A black-taped envelope may con-

tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the

file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-

tape the entire dossier rather than inclividual documents (see DOI 70-10).

26.3

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be

handled as restricted dossiers.

(11) An inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201

dossier on permanent charge should be returned to Central Files under a

Routing and Record Sheet with the notation shown below.

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT.

IP/FIles

cc-52

D

IHTERNAL

USE OMLY

• CONFIDENTIAL

EX SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TRANSMITTAL, OF INACTIVE 201 DOSSIERS

BAPE

(For guidance see CSEA 70-1•),

Chapter III, Aasex B.)

Volume(a) + Tolue(a)

of 2ol-

COSITICA 10391E

(Attaca Pora 2021 to

Dosaler)

→ Non-Restrleted Dossier

BD.

F3.

For Split Charge Dosajora:

AlI documenta priar to

(dato)

corvarded to IP/71108.. All

documents after .

(date)

retainod at

610E

E7 SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

CL BY, 007823

• UNCLASSIFIED

26.4

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES :

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any

period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk

officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.

Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer of Document or File Account-

ability (Form 2977) to the new action desk officer.

TO:

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY

COMPONINT

HOOM

This is to notify you that accountability for the document(s) and/or file(s) cited

below has been transferred to you by:

CONDONERI

BET.

Accordingly, IP's records now reflect you as the custodian.

Please contact IP/Files,

Ext. 4362,

It you have any questions regarding this transier.

SUBJECT. OF REGUEST

„FILE H0.

DOC, 81H806 & SUNBEA DOC. BATE

DATE

TRANSFER

8-93 2977 480 •

CONFIDENTIAL

[Ca. BY. 007673

The new action desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action

Request (Form 813) to change the action desk designation to insure that the

201 personality will be included in the Headquarters and field machine listings

for his component.

7. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS

a. Access to a sensitive 201 dossier may be restricted by holding the file at the

desk or placing it on restriction in Central Files.

(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking Box 2 on the 201

Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened.

26.5

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

• (2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge

from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being

returned to Central Files for retention, a File Restriction Notice (Form

2021) must accompany the dossier.)

(3) The dossier may be restricted änd held in Central Files by sub-

mitting a File Restriction Notice (Form 2021).

CONFIDENTIAL

(When P88l0d 80)

BASTEALS

IP/FI

GC -52

TUBE DT-6

IP/DCU

GC-40

TURE ET-L

FILE RESTRICTION MOTICE

ACTICH DESK:

1.

2.

To restrict a Illa, complete Section A (signature of R.O. not

necessary).

To remove a restrictios, complete Section B (R.O. sigaature

песевваку).

FILE HUSBER

SECTIONA

RESTRICT TO: (Use country or son-country code number. See eSI 70-23)

RESTRICTED BY:

COMPOVERT:

Date:

PUKINA

REMOVE RESTRICTION (AUTHORIZED EY)

COMPONENT:

2079 2021 l

CONFIDENTIAL

R.Q. No

Date:

EN HAYDEELL BEE CELE

b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the

personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request

for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier

held in Central Files will be forwarded with the entire dossier and a multiple-

routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forward the file

to the requester or deny the request and return the dossier to Central Files. The

desk will notify the requester of a denial.

c. Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document within a restricted

dossier, permanently or temporarily charged to a desk, will be referred to that

desk by Central Files.

26.6

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSONALITIES

The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide the identity

of the

subject of a 201 number unless the 201 file is restricted, in which case

requester will be referred to the restricting desk.

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201

file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned. Requesters should

supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

Requests pertaining to five or fewer names or numbers may be made by

telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the

information by return call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge

Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent

by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after

appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will

(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names

and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of

interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its

alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when opening

the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request

(Form 831) leave the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16)

blank, use the non-country code 900 in the action box (Box 14), and indicate

permanent charge to the responsible desk. The only listing which will include the

201 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 listings are

categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special.

a. Standard Listings

interest a scic an ally to etidy arters do the od boat on a cominteres

and "Interest

26.7

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Desk" blocks on the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The

standard listings available are:

(1) Alphabetical by surname, leading to a 201 number;

(2) Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number;

(3) Alphabetical by cryptonym, leading to a 201 number;

(4) Numerical, leading to a surname;

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptonym

FUI A CHINA

03 HICT

SURMING ALPHA LIS

SECRET/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE ONLY

BIRPHPLAC

MAKE MULES CERT

CHIN KWANCTUNG

OCC. CIT.

CH INT

РG 0710908349/690

SITH STI19011098001

R2NOV22

GREENA dAH

PANCE TRO PEAT ASTH

MUSSA

15 EMMERTE PRO.

SUSA

QIP1

PfOv.

PROF

ДОМУ

TSEA

CHIN-PFILIU

CHIN, RHONGTUNG

CHIP, FURBEN

KWANGIUKE

CHIN,

PRAE

CAT

€ 688 141

CIA?

CHINI

CHINT

Cata

SHU HSt'Y

DIPT

BODECZE

27J0429

CHIP, FENGSIN

NSEA"-ASIEN, KIANGSU

that Bien

CHARGEUNG DEEV.

CHEN, RAANGTUPE

SMATROIA!

COBNO CHANG 310

CAIN, HANG

CHICA

CCOM

*ANT

MILA

Coat

CCA:

cAno

CrA

GEOL

10000

017$

9000 RP.

"90: 82.

1888 22

Fros p!.

ARE 4.9064

17815829

79/091

3000

P2985/17958

126g

15P066

1TI898064TP0SIT8

871158269508031

2743229973794

87018-•p01

BHI-FI 1014582579139628

CHIN,

ADRPEGTUNG

CHIN, DELEIN

PERG AN

iNG ASIERO MUN

CHES, SPICINAN

ARMY

4189M6634

& P9 H00

0144750

SECRESPURGABILATION INTERNAL USE 0º1L1

219P0F8 C6 BY 05698

26.8

SECRET

01-2

tHIN

CHIA

ChIN

HOTHERA

NILT

TAIN

ETHE

CH17

CHIN

CHIN

CHEA

HAMM

8085T

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

All standard listings are cumulative; previous editions must be destroyed

upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely

sensitive compilations of information and must be given every possible safeguard.

b. Non-Standard Listings

Based on one or more of the following selection criteria:

(1) Country of location

(2) 01 codes (organization and/or intelligence affiliation)

(3) Citizenship

(4). Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years)....

(5) Occupation.

These selection criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,

a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the

Ol code of XX or codes of XX, XY, or XZ. A 201 personality list could alsö be

produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years 1915

and 1920, with the occupation. computer specialist, who are now citizens of the

United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the OI code AA.

Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities with an:

Ol code AA. Those personalities with an Of code other. than AA and these.

with no OI code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that

persons who have not been assigned an Ol code also be included. Note also

that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific

as the occupation code (Attachment 1). The occupation code for a courier

covers only a documented courier. Some occupation codes cover more than one

occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those who practice

some trade or manual occupation, i.e, carpenters; bricklayers, painters, mechanics

and electricians. If a list is requested for electricians, all others in this category

will be included in the printout. These non-standard listings may be sorted

(arranged) according to any, but not more than three, of the following keywords:

(a) Surname

(b) Given name

(c) Date of birth

(d) Country of birth

(e) Citizenship

(f) OI code

(g) Location

26.9

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER ILL, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

*Sorts can be made within sorts. For example, 201 personalities may be sorted

alphabetically by surname within Ol codes for given countries

of location.

Because two OI codes may be listed for each personality, those names with two

Of codes would be listed twice.

c. Scheduled Listings

Standard and non-standard listings printed semiannually.

..d. Special Listings

Unscheduled, usually non-standard, listings produced on a one time basis

in response to special operational requirements.

e. Request for Listings

All requests for standard or non-standard alphabetical and numerical 201

listings for Headquarters and the field, for changes in periodic listings, and for

information on the 201 machine list system should be made to the component

Records Management Officer.

26.10

SECRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER II, ANNEX B

Attachment 2

15 November 1974

AUTOMATIC 201 DOSSIER OPENINGS

Note: 201 files will be opened automatically by IP/AN on the following cate-

gories of people.

1.

a. Diplomats with rank of third secretary or above.

b. Military attaches and assistant military attaches.

c. Intelligence officers of the General Intelligence Department (GID).

(Prior to opening of an

201 file, check with

for correct spelling

of name and additional biographic data.)

2.

a. All positively identified members of

Services.

b. All positively identified members of the

and

the

Intelligence

Military Intelligenee Service

officials of thel

i Communist Party offins arty stone or samirations al lenot ped

unless there is at least a date of birth given.

d. All members of the

Security Service of the

3. Cuba

Intelligence service employees (DSE, DGI).

%.

2. All

plomats. _

should be indicated as the originating

tice with CI/SP always indicated as the secondary office of intere:

Is. Military attaches.

c. Assistant military attaches.

d. Identified intelligence officers.

26.15

SECRET

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

Attachment 2

15 November 1974

5. North Vietnam

All diplomats and NFLSV (PRG) officials stationed abroad.

6. USSR

a. All Sse assigned Ps o al fisa representation intel lation, e

office, news media office.

b. All Soviets assigned PCS to the United Nations in New York, Paris, Geneva,

and Vienna.

c. Audio technicians, after coordination with SE desk concerned:

d. Students who will be studying abroad for a full academic year at institutions

of higher learning.

26.16

SECRET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

(

SECRET

!....

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 43-1-1

70-1-8

CSAB 43-1-7

CHAPTER II

15 February 1980

ni!:

ANNEX B

PERSONALITIES - 201 AND IDN NUMBERS

::.

3 ::

.1.. A relatively small proportion of the total number of personali-

ties indexed by the CS are of active operational interest/at any given

point in time. These are normally, suojects of extensive reporting anc

CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, and members of

groups and organizations of continuing target interest. Each of these

personalities is assigned either a 201 number or an IDN number.

2. The 201 number, serves a dual purpose. It brings the fles o

these personalities into the CS records system. A single number,

e.g-, 201-123456, Is assigned to each person, and a dossier controlled

by this number is established which contains, or has cross referenced

to it, all of the reporting on the individual's personal history, current

: status and prospects. Once the 201 number is assigned, it is used in

future reporting on the individual both as a file number and in place of

other identifying data. Up-to-date machine listings are published

periodically to help field stations and headquarters desks keep book.

on those 201 personalities falling in their particular geographic or

-functional area of interest.

3. It has become apparent that the 201 machine listings should in-

clude the identities of persons of operational interest because of their

connection with a target group or organization even though there may

not be sufficient information or specitic interest to warrant opening

..a file. for oxample: A considerable number of stations are concerned

- with the activities of Cuban exiles. Coverage of their movements,:

factions and objectives can be assisted by furnishing all participating

stations up-to-date listings containing information under the control

43

Blas ky

SECRET

T05+6 10-1-1202

1112

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRET

70-1-1

CSHB-43-11

CHAPTER II, ANNEX B

15 February 1960

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 49-1-7

of the Cuban desk on the dramatis personae. In addition to 201 per-

sonalities, such lists should.contain the names and identifying data

oi persons who should be kept track of, although they may only be of

tangential interest or on whom there may be little or no data other

than that given in the listing itself.

4. To accommodate this type of requirement in the 201 system,

identifiable personalities concerning whom enough information is not

yet available to require the opening of a file may be assigned numbers

of the following type but in the same series:

IN -123457

These are relabeled "201" if a file is opened. IN numbers are car-

ried with 201 numbers in appropriate general or special listings,

where they are identified by the letter "I" in the "Type of Name" col-

umn. IDN numbers are not C's file numbers.

5: All 201 code numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters,

either upon receipt of borm 831, or of a field dispatch. I a dispatch

is written about a personality not yet in the system, a 201 number for

it may be requested simply by writing under headquarters file number

in the dispatch form as follows:

Dispatch Symbol and No.

XXZA -12345

Headquarters File No.

201-

IDN numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters upon the

request of stations or desks which are developing special identification

programs within the 201 system. The field receives current notifica-

tion of new 201 openings and IDN numbers through the Field Index Card

Service..

44

SECRET

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 49011

701-1

CSHB 43-7J

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 February 1960

l Stations or branches oiten are concerned with personalities

not of general CS concern. Files on these may be kept in any desired

order. Should such personalities become of general CS interest,

they must be brought into the 201 system.

45

SECRET

---

