# 104-10055-10120

## Page 1

1104-1005-10720

6000244

Inside Washington

210ch 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

By ROBERT S. ALLEN.

cials who actively oppose

on has yet to be

And PAUL SCOTT

*Soviet

Tiet pullers.

used

against

any

dismissal of such persons

or compressed

for security

reasons re

high West-

from public office, at oth.

form.: The

gas is fatall

port

that

CIA Director

"Soviet Strategic

er

times

even having

within seconds

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

and

an..

John

McCone

made

no

Executive

Action,"

ern officlul, hundreds of

the

KGB agents

covertly op.

Them 'eliminated' physi

mention of this explosive

- The

Central Intelli-

suppressed

CIA

docu-

erating outside of

Russia

cally.

use.

Non-trace a ble

document

in

his

gence

Agency

secret

withheld

ment went into the shock-

have been

supplied with

"Such activities

are

poisons have been report.

testimony

before

vital

the

intelligence

infor-

ing

details of how agepts

this

pocketa.

gun,

mation from

the Warren

of KGB, the Soviet secret

waiting!

known to be undertaken

ed which do not take ef.!:

Warren

Commission.

• against other types of

Commission during its in-

police, are trained to do.

from Moscow

persons in the West, not-

fect

until several

hours

While McCone furnish-

alter being administered,

vestigation

of

the

assas-

away

with Western lead-

The

Murder

Xiapons

ed the commission with

ably

defectors from the

thus allowing an assassin

sination

of

President

ers, including officials in

HIGHLIGHIG

the

U.S.S.R

and from

other

to be far from the

scene

the CIA's secret surveil-

Kennedy.

the

U.S.,

and to

make

suppressed

igence

countries

of

the

Soviet

when his victim

dies.

lance

reports

on

Lee

Despite

the commis-

their deaths appear due

estimate, while

-Mocked

sion's written request for

to

natural

causes.

in a

security parce

boOne recently reported

"A knowledge able

Harvey

Oswald's

eight

source has

described

: days

in Mexico

City

be

all documents that might

One of the KGB's new..

the: tightly-gurrom

ly

assassination

CIA,.

assassination technique is

pneumatically

poison

ice

operated fore the assassination, in

shed light

on the assas-

devised

are

as followe

to electrocute an individ-

atomizer

cluding

sination,

CIA

authoritics

wapong -is ya: pnumati-

"It

has

been reported

ual

by

luring

him

which leaves

no wound wald's

details

contact

with the

failed to turn over a na-

cally. operated polsoni ice that the

KGB

endeavors

use a telephone, connect-

or other evidence of the

head

KGB

agent

in

the

tional

intelligence

esti-

"atomizer, which leaves dito

removerthe

eat to

ed to a high-voltage wire,

. cause

of death."

Soviet

embassy

there,

mate

warning

that it is , no wound or other: evis Soviet interes

Kremlin policy

to remove

dence

from public

office by as-

death."Of the cause

by

during

a thunderstorm.

Congressional invest-

certain membe

ol West-

"Another

the

CIA

chief

gave

involves

the

gators,

who

have

asked

hint of the Kremlin's as

ern governmen

m e-

use

of

pistol

which

that

the name

of their:

sassination policy.

sassination

Western offi-

While this deadly

weap

times

 the •

projects a poison gas in

committee

be

withheld

(CONTINUED ON 8-23)

Old 36p

Documents

shown by?

tomm

stration

officials to

OTHER. U.S. inten

McCormack Mass:

sence experts

bious of

very du.

• in line to succe

next

Presi

Russia's

Co-ok-

istence

dent Johnsongs

line, stress that

the Warren Commis-

While

sion's

have

been

this

beea different

Spea

might

warnod

mack; a

df:

Communist. t

Mor

CIA: estimate

and

"other

the list of M

documents sup

pressed by the State Do

cials feared by the Krem-

lin,

CIA

partment had been avail

authority

able for study.

has shown the No. 4 man

They

government

the CIA

but that

the State D pariment:

report

listing these

4se-

cret

•Soviet assassination

suppressed evidonce link

dng Oswald with one of

methods.

its

employes, who

Instead, Me Co smack

acon

cording to security, fllés,.

Icarned about the repoit

"presented strong.

DrO.

only

recently from con-

file

P- 8593

gressional

probers

Who:

Hai

Who tested:

to there

---

