# 104-10120-10021

## Page 1

1041012010021...

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS:

ATION TOP AND BOTTOM

RETURN TO CIA

UNCLASSIFIED

1 CUNFIDENTIAL

SEcREcyground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

Chief, SRS

TO

1

2

3

5

6

Chief, LEOB

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Mr. Gaynor;need answer to last paragraph

question raised by WILEY before 10 a.m. if

possible.

Have not checked this with Goodwin's

office.

0:5°

wiley called he will forward?

manuscript - we will dupreet

and refuse

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

William Milligan]

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions

DATE

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

O8A FPAR 161 CPRO 108-1800

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SEUNCI

TO

: Chief, Security Research Staff

DATE: 26 January 1970

FROM : Chief, LEOB/Security Research Staff

SUBJECT: E. Howard HUNT, Jr.

#23500

(Manuscript - "Give Us This Day")

1. Charles WILEY called collect from New York to report

that he had gotten a manuscript written by a Edward J. HAMILTON

who was described by WILEY as a long time Agency employee. An

OS indices check revealed that in October 1960 Subject had been

furnished an alias in conjunction with his proposed assignment to

JMARC. In this conjunction Subject had received the name Edward

J. HAMILTON, a backstop address and a District of Columbia

drivers license in this alias. In June 1963 a post office box at the

Woodridge Station in Washington, D. C. was set up for the Subject

in the name Edward J. HAMILTON. This box was cancelled in June

1965. It may be assumed that since no other Security Office reference

exists for "Edward J. HAMILTON" that this alias may be the nom de

plume for Subject in this instance.

2. WILEY advised that he had reviewed sketchily the man-

uscript and saw nothing new nor exciting other than a reference to

General Cabell, former director. According to the manuscript, and

WILEY's version thereof, at the time of the Agency participation in

the invasion of Cuba Mr. Dulles was out of town. General Cabell,

returning from a golf game, allegedly cancelled the second or third

air strike against the Castro forces. According to WILEY, General

Cabell appears as the villain.

3. WILEY reported that the Holt Publishing Company thought

the manuscript tocontroversial to publish and apparently referred it

to Tom WALLACE or Bill BUCKLEY. It was thought that perhaps the

Conservative Book Club might be interested.

4.

WILEY indicated that he had to return the manuscript

tomprrow (27 January 1970) and that he would call me before 11 a.m..

T58T

Exeludes drom automatie

isumoradiog and

declasstlicallo:

1010 108

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Re§SERRE: he Payroll Savings Plan

?!

---

## Page 3

14-00000

to ask if we wished to have a xerox copy or some facsimile of the

manuscript prepared by WILEY and forwarded.

William Milligan

WM:frnt

---

