# 104-10193-10041

## Page 1

104-10193-10041

SUNSET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

12 may 1961

MEMOrAnDUM fOR THE REgRe

SUBJECT

: Meetlag sich lag. Nanuel Ray

PARTICIPANTS: lag. Manuel Ray

Ernesto Betascourt

Rogotto Cisneros

03

1, Ray did not return to. Hashington until early morning on Friday.

12 May 1961. He called me at 0700 from the alrport. Ha was unable

to fis a definite bour for us so ges together due to la lact that he was

espocting an appointment will'a person he did not name some time

during the moralag. He latar called a number of limes from she liote!

Ambassador to advise me thal he still had had no word on his appoint-

ment. As 1145, Mr. Betancourt called to say shas he was with Ray

and 'Eugenio" (Rojollo Claseros) and could we set together. 'I aug-

gasted they drive out ta tse Clarendon Hotel Court on Wilson Boulevard

where I har taken a room for holdiag our meeting. They arrived in

wont to the maarby slojale hestaurant in Wlson Boulerard for lunch

bofore we got down to the busines of the prospectua.

2. Durtag lunch we did sot discuss the plas but I did sake the op

portunity to strena in a most hurlous way the doed for absolute secrecy.

concerning our discussions today and asy future discussions or deval

opronis which mizhi taxe place la she future with respect to our relatias

ablp. All agrood us tàe nood for sighi security.

Ja. After lunch we drove to the Hotel Court and from approsimately

1330 anill 1730, we discussed lbe prospoctas.. Voing Mr. Barned' out-

line so a general guido, l treased lhe imporiance a belag able lo present

Y9/0

---

## Page 2

SECRET

•I=

to the propor paople at the cariles possible time a carefully ibougal.

out plan of action which would at sorts clearly the objecilves what

ibe projoct hoped lo achieve; a statemen: of lo problom: the atrengtha

of the Castro regine following le ill-fated invadion; the status of the

underground sad jin morale and capabllites; the extent of Internal

eupport for and dieconten! →1tb tha regime, eic., sie.

I ulso spoke of tbe nnod for describing the kind of activities

which tbe Ray organlestion plaaned lo engage in and the assers and

capabilitia» which they have or can acquire lo do lso job.: The seed for

explainias the reialionahip and coordinatio of the plan with the Revoli-

Blonary Council was discussod at some lengeb.

3. I muggasted that be include in the pian an itemiiasion of the kinda

of support which he would expoct un to supply Immediately do well no the

kind and quantley of support chich rould be required of us as tha project

developod.

3. I aluo suggested that the plas include their viewe on how U. S.

Ilalsun and coordisation could boat be worked out; hos funde would be

funneled into the projaci; what commo and other trainlag would be 58-

quired; whether U, É, "real estato! would be noeded, eic.

7. Ray ostlined some of his thoughts regarding hia proposed plan

of action. According to bira ll contenplates action in three booed fle?ds:

(a) Undergroand activity - principally sabotage -- in the

urbaa arosa.

(b) Gradual bulldup - razzoly through clandestine iniiltra-

tions ol small bodies of men - of guerrilla forces In mountain-

ous and defenslble areas.

(e) A psychological warfare carpalen within Cuba and abroad

almed at discrediting Castro and at lbe same timo providing tho

paople of Cuba somatalag to figst for.

8.

It is Ray's intention to depend aimost entirely on maritime opora-

tloan for the Infiltration of personnel and instoriel into Cuba. Mo also

rules oul of hia plan the creatioa al another Invasion army bu does con.

template the tritaing di groupa el pariapa up to 150 men in ulber frondiy .

...

---

## Page 3

8000 8 70 00

I: :

i.....:

- SECET

countrios of South America lo messionod Vonazuela do a possibllity)

and asid he mould explore the josibility of basing marilime operallons

in nos-U. S. ports..

for reachlog the Cubas population by radio broideants. He spoke of

Bho poosibility ol abort vare briadcano from Venosuela and asilisa-

dion of a commercial ation in dilamt which he unteralands con be

clearly beard is Cuba.

10. Ray spoto of the denircability of dtimulaling the organisalion

of "Pro-Iruo Cuban Revolutlosary' student prougs is sany countries

of Lalla America (he said a nicossíul organiaation has beos formed

da Puerto Ricol and of sandíns quallied reprosentativos so those Lalia

Anerican countrios where tbere is soviet diplomalic representation to

contact student and labor groups and leaders in an effort to present to

them the true picture of lba sorry diale of siudents, workers, and

intellectualo la Castro's Cuba.

11. Ray do alao Interested in tho possibility of pulling out a "Nows

Letter" under MRP sponsorabia which would diocusa various aspects of

tbe Cuban pleture and set forth plans for Cuba after the fall of Cadtro,

He thought auch a news letter could yo a long way towarde correcting

mietaken Impressions amony serican university prolossors and in

other circlos as lo the true nature of lho Castro regime. He pointed

8o the rocent letter from 67 Harrard profoadoro wüich vas receally

pablishod in the N. Y. Timed as a horriblo example' as to how mia.

Informed even university proissanta are en premoni day Cubs.

12. When the discussiona gos around to the need los conducting

operations at least 'undor the umbrella"' of the Rovolutionary Council,

and the nood for obtaiola: Dr. Miro's concurrence balore the U.s.

would. Do able to support any eperallon, le was obvioue that neller

laj. Ray nor Mir, Betancourt boide a bijb Improssion of tho Council.

Both feel that there is a strong possibillly thal the close public

Identilication of the Cousell will the recent Invasion may wall save

diocredited the Council to such as axter that li commando so support

or respecs within Cuba.:

For the sake of argumani le; were silling to concede that the

poillical advantagen of mistairis; no Council for the purpose of foreiag

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Sidel

=1=

unity of the varloue extie groupe may sell outwelgh lie othar obelous

shoricominie. However, both leel, and Air. Belancours was quite

emphalie on thia point, phas lo Council an a body la sos capable al

diroctio, clandostine actlons againal Castro and as a maltor of fact

1a opposed lo any lurthor olloris al overthrowing Casiro by sabotaga

and other subvarsive actions since they are coinpletely "nold" on

sos iocolo lhas Castro can only de remorad by direct U.S. military

setion and therefore a continuaton of Cuban undergrous. activities

can only result la needless and futile loos of lUe. In the lact of thin

atitude, Ray said he does no, expoct lo receive snuch encouri®mont

for hla plan from the Counchl, although be le fairly confldent that

Dr. Miro's approval can eventually be obtained.

Me. Detmocours thought that a workable solution might be found

to thelr problern li tha Council would agree to concorn laall exclusively

wilh (a) lhe current lank of matylig the opposition, and (b) plannias lor

¡to luturo assumptlon of power as lhe provisloual goverament. Under

this arrangement, oporatione almed at the duwnfall of Castro could bo

entrusted to those leaders and groups (ouch as the biRP, bila, and

posalbly the MDC) which have both the asseto and the will to do the

Joti, Sir. Ray thought that li might be loasible to croale an operationa

planning bosrd or command amons the groups with demonalraled sadolo

and thus arold unnocessary duplication and confuslon and mako posalble

overall planning. l vas obrious, horover, thas so monid prefer to act

autonomously in the axecution of his program.

Air, Ray was very crltical of Artime and clalmed he was la posasssion

of sudiscient 'Yacts" lo convince bina lhat Artima, la collusion wits ele-

menta of the camps, were planniay lo aliminaie the MRP and its leaders

from the picture, when the invasion succeried. lie caid i nois

that Artime was baing financially supported by wealthy ex-Basistianos

of eba milani area.

13. Ray hinted at various times that the MiRP may al some point

lind isell laced with the recosaity of withurawing from las Council and

golng it alone.

He saye that the Council la composed of "jood men" but

¡boy have no zapoia or significant folloringa and 'have nothiag to aller

the people ol Cuba" and aithough the proclamation of the Council, as

Inally draltad, was a 20od one the "progreasiva' aspocto of the proclam.

ation were forced on the Council by the Americana snd do nol represen:

the true feelinga of the majority of the Council inebers.

He said the

5117.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

S!:

Cuban poopie aro no! Ilkely to want to risk thair lives on the basis.of

promises rude by lo prosent membership of the Council. He feels

¡has accoptance of the Couscl! would be improved by addlas so 180.

inenbership two or three more people whose namos tould be signl-

ficant and meaningíal to tbe Cuban people. Ho did not paine any

pecifie candidate.

Air. Ray los me read a 11 or l4 page report which he had

Just received from the MRP: coordinator in Cuba (Reinol Consales)

which palnied a dreary pléture of condulions la Cuba since the fallure

of the invasion, mus critical of the inclusion of Batiellaos and "ninon

bonitos" in the Invasion force; conveyed the strong feeling that the

Caban's had been botrayed by the Americans; and Indicated that while

the MRP organiiation was ofill pretty nuch lalact pbynically, morale

was almest completoly shalierod, sir, limy said he would provida mo

a sanitised copy (there vere some operational and personal detail»)

ol the report lor our information.

15.. In vlow of thia report from wishin Cuba, Mir. Ray unid that

ho will mioh to defor submittias hia plas for our coasideratlos unill

de lo ablo to socalve word from Cuba concerning the capabililies,

wIllingoes and leagibility of carryimy ous some ol the sctivities he

Ao In mind. Ho said it to uselesa to suboris a program of action 1l

the human elements to carry 1l out aro lacking ar completely demoral

inod. He bought be might be able to present ata prospectus within

approsimataly son days. He said naturally he will not zive the pappie

Inalde any Indicallon that he has boen discussing a plan of actlos with

16. I urgod Hay to consider subroitting al lenal a preluniaaty aud

admiredly tentative prospectus at this time based on the assumption

that bis ansets are still Intact and will be willlag to coopirate in ordor

that l8 may receive early considerallos. However, he stuci to b18

beliol that ibis would nos be practicable and rolterated tile need for

prior ovaluntion of the sirength and morale of bis following.

17.

Ray asked concerning the detainees at McAllen, Texas, and

wondered if they have been releasad.. He was told that as far as !.

know thay are still undes deteat lon.

Ho said tir. Goodwin had taken

their samos and promised to look Into the malter. N°. Betascourt

L:

---

## Page 6

EYES CLY

said he would chock directly with Mr. Goodwin re their status..

18. Iloried Mr. Ray and/or Mr. Betascourt to call me over

Rse weekend ln case either should was to discus the matter further.

I had the loelins that Mr. Betancourt was personally In lavor of sub-

milling now a plan covering "Short term" noeds of thair organimation

and is may bo that such a paper will be submlited alter he bas an

opportunily so talk with Me. Ray li prlvale.

03

JAN/ dia

Distribution::

Original & ? - A/DDP/A

1 • C/WHD

1 - Maniel Ray 201

BYE?

---

