# 104-10188-10447

## Page 1

104-10188-1047)

SECRET/KAPOS

chlod of station, Mexico City

RevLew Of LIFFAI and LIEvoY

projecte by KUTURE/0193

1.

Here is the mule draft muper prepared ly sail v. LEVISTER

after his recent viste to your

slation.

It has had the benefit of

valunble succestions from the des.

It has boon roud with interest by

SOndOr KISANK Officers uno thine the paper Illustrated the essentials

of GoOd RaD OpEratiOna.

The stress uf tho paper 1s on latelliteuco

colloction, but cose meution bad to be uatic of opratioual leade and

CI/Ct intornation, Otherwise me would have had only a partial picture

of the oscrations.

commonts of corroctlong you

alan to nate.

no sint to present the true facts and convoy the right

inpiession.

Having pald this trlbute to nomaty.

re vill

saalt havin;

1n a len instances, in the

Inletest of slupli

no was the : bestion or roche und

alone (pago 11, ja sou 12); it dia not vlot

to contine reacts

to confuse

roader alth

The other vos the collection and distilbutlon of

rools and tracelations, vich in runeshat more couploa than the

proofuure inscribod in the text; to preferred not lo disk losing li

render ail ourselves la chose double and triple

singback forations

ExACUtE DY LOber 3. RICES ANd JETENY A. NIANCE UE 11911 MAY 80 901

in the moose shu concildes tiring the vay.

There are a

Ios notues on

not suit, los listener

lise 5amr account of due statiod atrengla alveu o piges 16-17.

no felt thul such an account ous nicessdry duce

the grades Me. on dica

nt the aire of the operatlons ani due somunt ut no iavalve ittout

such an account hr nicht haye ausic! da? me stell do lestos

One of our tory largent.

Tonie la aloo tho restion of lic esdid

cunnilion of the antercept coacelet inu seart. and now.

1y buere

is unythis missiod for not accurately descalad)

that coule solp othe.

to taproy:

quis key paint, so suula

(continued)

:18tI1lu810n:

031- Cis.

sensed ally

ider dale

1) aceaber 1901

-30-0-73/1

10-4-3811

..'

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRST/RAPOS

HIH 12230

1. Finally, thora vas the quention of the pollad lines, on valet

cho files are mystitying.

73333

The essonce of the seasage is

that so mach can be done, and done vell, by rolatively few people.

provided those fey people have tbe right sillis and sufficient drive.

He nigat onlt all references to Latia Ascrica, the Spanich incguage,

and Cuban caso officero, te michi evon throw in a for alaleadias phrases

11KO

"ano far away Cuian larges."

To cartainly would not want the

location to be secogaized escopt by persons already janhilar sith the

operations.

so will be guided by your dishes in tbia and other aspects

оз вло рарог.

OlIVES G. GALBOND

---

## Page 3

1000

1430L0 AND ZRJOINT

1O TELEPIORE TAP OFERATIAS

---

## Page 4

-. -

TABLE OF CONCERTO

INTRODUCTION: TWO CORPLESTIARY OFERATICAS

PART 1:

PART IS:

TA" CAFTO LUB IRSTALLATIOIS

PARE TEZ: SPATZUR'S URB dE LAP INPORPARICH

CONCLIUICAS

since. a

...:

---

## Page 5

IPRODUCTICE: 1ã0 CHPLONSITARY OFEFATIONS

The asation does 2o! sharo la videspread beltel that telephono

tapo aro naceonarily poor producera of poaltiva intolliance. Whenever

a atatian offscar bears of a cap operation thal produces little diasemi-

Bablo 1a10ra11on, bla lavitable cement 10: "Poo bad thay're torting

800d 1a8c5Eat1os Bl19 Ebrough their tlagero." The atation"s experience

u1th tro tap operatione explalsa it attltude. For 13 jenra 1t bao had

•As Independent too operation that becama a goal producar as politivo

1oto121880ca a roll as operatical leade dod CI/Ll LaPorEatica. Durina

sto perlod of paxtem developan: enla eparation bad 23 Inso and

produced sono 140 dissentraticao pur soar. Fire yours ago to atarlen

set up a now lay oporation lotally dits tha losal gomercat. mis

aparation became oriento priani late ibilitie pictua.

During sha paat suo yours 1t bus miacalood 30 sctive linos and

produced so 255 dispentasticas par pears lt reporting had been evalua

sad an "totallod, an of bish puallty and subaranilai quastity."

Beveral lines sappod by to Joint sparstica lsd toen tha soat procutive

anna of tea iodopandens ragap fuda sosopendent operatioa bas been ca1u-

110i1, althou: the inovlidge of la iocal govrasni, but it baa boccas

ordenion prizarily toarde targai os CI/C3 interoat; de the ones ties,

18a ovurall coverage hos boon reduced, and 10 recert yasr de Cas 8a1-

calnad between ll and 18 linas. loder these cireustances, Cha insallt-

sance produozina of los indepisdent operation no tound to leersaso;

coverthalone, lt bite manoed a respectabla producar, vies an arorago due li pa i

cabinations par fear. tas story of those too corplamentary

"i,;

---

## Page 6

d29gi0 that did 09e-91:0id cao be direied arteartly

the acquisitice ca 91/C8

interator and crerationa

leacs: 1: 4120

abous thu: asy 8oed tap

opera: ira le baual. i0 bruduçe iCin foritive ant CIrI Inforas:100, 1n

ranise denteos 4:1001108 to liabar lie proratico la diaated.

lacelia produce lo there, Du: li ine is to recoriced nod exiracted

fron tae ore.

Te 1011n01rd 806021t of lin developat: aid prosod:

Ea, is::at liat cuntribute do thali Eruductirely.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

:.

2E2 DE CPRRATICAS

sio insula lan son insagnident aporai'os, volce se vili coll

phone crepary sare racrillod; une vao a inparrioor lor repaire aod.

did repalr and suintasdaco vore. In

leadera a ebo insi insucial turiy dud inoist-front ergarlintiono

cana. Du progress tal boen clasdy, aid ine pontuctit peare va-

Se: A0z1, I0

alora, ie crali couairy dasse judged sa censiocal licornation-ol

11t produced

Main: 16.009110 ?7sa119d " bi: 10f1eil4ti00. T0y 009e100

io318.

---

## Page 8

12-0000

porto locaied mai the insices" pointa, viui a isoleilag fost iporator

and as assletar 10 sair 279 to do lee s001d0riea.

The Sorie! aad

Saralileo tato tao Pracaisiod by coa:rase Roata. Tua diarion hed

Lise form

---

## Page 9

minatis 3

"BicFDI".

a..o 91!

togl gera Micid. di ii it:

99-9.49

e119

ci Tirot

anterooot

copi contor tocariid? i:

81+1

taran

÷.'

A siallon dini: agent dali ti'0 155

1a chaige as 63198'9

---

## Page 10

14-00000

90 19p0ri lie Mations 1ar.

-s" C077660755671651609

Tales me Pour

1021 10208

tiere vo

.ii:

r. i

Ted 15. 94411714119

NF.".

11994;5

mai 75970018 Gan

weicht en de let nei

26; 094

rei, 1"

..:!"

"le linie de der ilien taille ded teile thin tite stit

---

## Page 11

A Montien My B

che sarrlin And A ipi Mlinoui l14 kanoinige, and da face, dãa il ene

roes innt of the tüter of

derrico, faro sao al sppuremaly, not sag li papara tro 1:89108'e

talerhona cove:ge diel 1004: holp. lit di90 lu corglos reia:: coshipa

•Witte the sai tride di bin icitan

can le ararancar dr de lei gerade cortalai di

altli 317595)

eilse. mee Corini, prire den Markel den 30

M: t001e: C2a1d191 06 de

дa1a:1à

---

## Page 12

14-00000

dlen ele Mr G 1ed Gee Me 1 a.!ed ?0 le den1 de. P.

doit cle ine melBudido de iosl biold cgamtireai dedenteice

Biid, 5009

eaaouinà tarinitondo tne peso batcto a"si polled tircall 109

ZauiTT -Wirll! A4 bel t9d Alel d Mr cdl Ct.e 19 PaLl CCiA

lo "eaiote wi ot.

Ro ado iopigne" df dil " old.1:00 Nlin 129 30:110

Aallßttr loei l irer ae lis di. ir Alalliln Co aaintalhile

OtW:+9 +4454949299706

+ (49:7444-5332559rtid-tilescg.psles.idts noftoES-to1 istplle doice-iean

ap diт1 1953-138.

werritd t.a

IOO TT bEGDLEA tE 11E

iieit

ieriar, di detBedy li tiétedião indtgtarod tobrpie pairac sipeieiA-

Wos ot:18990-3e71 duete ädetr : asiares

," 10 Ü 10: i irßllen

Mari üistz on 1 .e

'.mo tiã Diiloodiin dlal duid lit deitis lei

Lid guntli"dia!

tnt rysititd

tprahortt

110e49:0901.90. Gi: 1s

aiiienitt

AE:dies809

•eo.rlei durlh yoele io preduid1

i..':

---

## Page 13

2polAlli.d in,? 379, 099177

in potete tre intes

un a gesuite comunity al intered?,

rie

555. 26

grety

tant Mania!.

Ail Birlia

Mage: tl Gol te Good e Ned ed io Mittel dott lod arabicho e

truit faidee cosi di oblio lad iner bidged elüdedone di duce

.. sapie anoniedi".

As9:

ihre

1'!:

.tei

.0..19

;=e:

. 4.5

...

---

## Page 14

core dde de delle Mache

;.."

net. i.

• 10 0191109

:59e t111i 8 395.00

---

## Page 15

14-00000

hat man hi cica

'**•

1009 19 Raiar 1950il do Dia Dell1190100110 10 1019i direra-

mene 1A 16in (9aio?:00 Thal 15 9 t9:1eT 19 110 500009.

Uuu mu in tie invai seuurley saiodie, and ibay scer chai reia vas

aul tho produ'i issi surod. Cosrario:10as veie do: recordoi, sod

ahoro couli do do chasò on the lile secicortosi da eno hasdo of an

109I81C1oss Onl COrTIDE SETVICO, CiNTO vas Biory Chaaco Wit 99

nubetaice nl convoreazione so caicial ax 119t0rtes, unintartirally

un dy decino, Tas: is sty noão ioca: orticiaia datod due muri or

per irisa alatimi faid a iogurea lat in ino cox. 57=5 09 507-77S

dopo tho luci sorriso out di di ta tito intas origine de da 201

doal vica a ioca derica--vieu serica oujoccina, viti pereiasi atb1-

diana, vita a situa operaidi aud a midra ina seraall, thas man couatos

and ano incal parride tacides do ilia it orer for lignit. it du tut

dent with i

jecpio mia an 105t9 di tho cxidtaa:d dinie latercep: caniar roday

Are Cha

fair:

---

## Page 16

Uy illino nio ido sy day, Si 100.2t 1000 ho 11:4291009 SiA Dia08 o!

¿ArSOnS Ans griLDO RoBElle iO Lies and lO OUTCKE. Erery Doraing cha

asd sia chiat of Statico naie or. esair dees

a tuo so four-pago copy al riso dighiigite el me prericua day'a saso.

adis 10" o coes of the sapes to seo 18-

toora so olber dotallo to le tai

ibs, ne lod aerer bean so

21s ova copy di tha premious day e inghilghta vita erte? Instrucelora

tanno dad sue dellide an potrai di anital laperinace or de

"oid intoreo: ai lus 10g, sa 00t.

---

## Page 17

In joint

ally a 13:20r

one al dally icacera la la dituai ruansas 1l encoo upoeloca.

КИВАКК'& 122.0919

1n

Zanin, bore deas wall procected all along.

Our caso of!:'ª= 1a91d0 l Icosallarico, lo ola?s agent voo kaopa

ebe equipmeo? la gond miralia condition, ados auro that the opara-

Elão açaya da :0ur8a, Apparasily the lucal civilian 1a charge of

the sorteortm 0tali tried is tind out a? oue t1o0 utothor our ma

could to eiteres

out; bo told dia that it vas balis eurallled anal

escal atay auy fron the laterial: jour for a lou booza, bu: 100

cans orficer copilos tha: be said 00: 20

so Calet of station, aul nas vas sse end ot tire snitar. Ta a:1i10ò

pertoral ese ma foat si cuction to ratiro fa: out of ma sporation;

a Burrabliance and Investigative unis has boon created, was to first

tapo ver isatillad, lu tollon up iasia recorated by too uporarica,

b" Lins other Diallar ur118 mersd by satires and aubeidlied by

due of the S:r1e1 and Mooth icetrialisaa, the Chiel Ol Sentle dizreneed

lacross dis pateres our trai no had so inguideo capabia of transitilas

de seit to Bondquariors tor 1100:901on ao1 1hat diu lose o' titores?

---

## Page 18

4-00000

apelidade tl estada,

"? A tal'al' 1990 do dier: regultes

luAs raros latera e Meado do dar Moste dial aGia.

G..? 1l9 Ge

---

## Page 19

14-00000

stari taccare ul coe peine dai dellanation li io, tare Boe

ратч...

tali 170tpsist. 1:119118:0191629

Potes"

Arca!

Commis: and denunto. Proni tripola, 2400797 : 99101 test sich ef

che ical tras diritt

pargo deleter delled di

darde tre torrise addue agir.

6:000-1ae99 11 1:

tra-

sini divi

'sara.".

---

## Page 20

14-00000

F=.2n+8

5951.

: diven dege areais

161:9.8

1: 19• 11a89 695,099

in ware of

is vora whil

---

## Page 21

14-00001

1712

NUTATE 18:T4114T:080

"Tou can' l orpoc: much from to people al chia comitry; they"re

caroleso, 10d01018, .

•, " and so on, Such generalisatione bave

DOOS INNO DY KUBARE OffICerS ConceraLAy iso soople of mary coustrioa,

1n0dedlag to ooo vore ZIWOINT 10 located. Too atatios rould

probably sot are vita the generalization, dod cartalaly 1e rould

DOR apply 1ì lo lO satire Boatoring otall. All alation officora

connoctod with tea oparation pay tribute to cha rezarkablo ab11l

Asvalopod by ebo montiora and to the algi qualley of chair voris.

Tole mol vaicadio os1l1 1o chels ablllay to rubove 206t of tho

1r1s Soon the Tau9 al let tasy Sired, in replete no the 95303,

•Iteout loBiag wich 15 naytarag of tho valuabie suboranca. Too major

higailgato ul the taka, To averago longtà of tits repare 1o about

three pageA of alcale-apaced syping. I1 gailliant scavareallor

appear to corcaolodical ordai, vita tha ilss 1aáicated 1a to sargio.

mey are ccadendes, but she var paradas are alron literally, secreen

fiction maria, The most productive llaes for else ropor are doose

0rDit lines Men cosvory911009 are lald 10 Spasios. Too 1A5as °

Spanist-aptablms 119o excope the Cuiran are sopt at cha 1niercept

cerior a 1901 of too, for posaldie caecalue oi

irriversatise.

an ato oredd; the sighilgota

report, Rereídie, la the oaly produst

receivel

i he stallen

tron cord lined.

Wit

---

## Page 22

14-00000

8orles, conia. luario", Bod dono lina is cerriod la the forireira

manüer. Te Spaes 10::16.a8

in Ruoalan (da rido), Crect, cr Sartian; and tho r40l0

aLd ErRaseripLO dO tranited Overy sUraing 8O to AEAlivA caso .

officar reDpoRoible for IRJOINT. Pres la l'ese trangeripta ete

moultore onli erirtal converenisons van ebey ane la Bpaniss, poioly

BORIES "SIS LEpO-tAnGIa". Tho pracEIce de baring tha soullora remora.

All tho PrIvIa Chay CAD TOCURAIRO GO GUIS 10 00990816)

rat o tho tato naneable and torafora uoasio. wa zay 1c00 a

castonal lien or detall of vallo

des thio bay, but me sorid lone

---

## Page 23

14-00000

?e1001d 1 1110011: Giftllnd " 1 ire Dubotis 18 605016g

at te taid ine mt mrin led ooog ll wid didi tfl bl bily brie tlse; thay

opeleo l6 aitiia.iy s. i0it i018131id

ias;aterin alving tiat drey

vare rredy tor mire. "ey soc0lind drachiehi c0-100-1 erairius tr'ae

RUEAGA, ALd i 1E

trinlee due dopaciaily atteriire alier tue tlra:

yosr, tieu

l-jse attocericochoi ise rua

aocibced cuii-11a0 in tro

1a1a:e1t iorese di üe ihich fae leaie düd: toäre Rental :i''ii

inatructlonenee, celee meattueoe dltled Dg Go90dde

;"ii...ee

te:9 d toreredi.nà,

-aldattero di inliled thentatt in sto

Loleuainto drrzesgcidebtl dui codoed dp dü toe eraflts, iil 059 0101-

roo ai lne centri ano arario sidad in iii insa ir mhiopice ire sebts

1nla Rbaoe ly lho sagersor aptlsade di ano sncttoo. due vuo toend 1a

bo tie bei oi the loiosno ahonei a raze:tadce aitllly tot daciatic8

Latelilgonie tiit ine naoi de laa taia

1is te dno Dreraits 11+

dully migdleeid degto'.

Ho ben tei ien än duigd betoln Di i iliaia

eet o te tharcht Cai'er.

tray':

a:tratrdde e 1e di0 180

1u cbarse.

llerdde dl Miillel Sits mis Gea tlo ,lirt a-iênie

Ml w9, beceeee Ge Megeil Gerel ll lel dee Mle düti dlludtäns

liea t0 dn ia deaoel dud triled tin liatd jerg. no Benirdrg ene

le..me ber illliel. Mi Go0ta 1al 10 ihe ial CUHAlTE Her taro

been feids tra terer 66.201ks

ld :otad5el? l ld" 'I9ai

Fraee CEUlTOT:F.

—? t? laG. Dt?w

hiaediiae ca?

-a.n

---

## Page 24

11-00000

chi ti a ti ni rice e.

dios tire:

..."ii.

• ic

---

## Page 25

4-00000

@11IA 00+004-010D0i EA:9100929:8. Me; dire tha vaicee of tie

carça: persona and di ideir logient ecrree2aden=8.

Thay 16en:1fy

In chelr reparte de paritouier ialia serlisu Sccel!g ol wikami

callers. Mey ginop the citares: man1a03 il intonazioca ard cao

vianilte altuarions al lie ither and of the dico. They recomi

apeciai note os apeatoro, duct da ançor or 3ar101%, iopporacherical

sotea, Pury nuie a simple systag di intilai to presant dipari tho

fied porsero in laipe Insiliationo: Mi jano looide in ailacion),

maluinin = eupio but afiestiva ayaten of cross-ftling excerpis ef

cho take ay ines of torges persona, by ramos cá desi principal

contac9e, air ty telephone nuavere calles ty cargoi porosoe, la sodi.

1100

%o ie inale caronologicos liii ci io take for euch isrger line.

priorio, di stan inteles lid aned for sia a5a:10a l: d0 ChiS Cri93

flii:!

tre lightinare raggela sd the tracciatie ano eriderio.

Dy cielo sperarneco, de tre scatore proie in itoli durs:

che prese:-

ratlai is calerly and tonicos a corisan iortat, mid didea lie caporea

---

## Page 26

14-00000

but 11 10 0 ayopin on is s00ami care die Much Chay Clocharge

their essentia doctiona. It soir terroga neo aid too joura to

bring tha monitoring stail si deo predant level of ocaprosco, aos

continuity on the leb tas toon do aspental roctor do tre rosale.

In tire yaris anly ice no the criteal scrizone has jato; to das

aid good acherlad ica be crane, loo coch of liose tro :8rr41is

to boala d0 oated ta perfore co to charter ators

Too LOat

oi sho operstion the deed in bit gird soulleid dud to neap item cal

the lot, ma incontiro dos derstit is ino for of pog, ine guirg.

sidiion for Rari do a auppiedediary saiary piuparticiois li: 840

value o" 11s woch at tha centor. 3r. Hotter Incontire Inal 19059

pan 4916. 71 11 10 391 991

0: 1%.

Tay are co2d data neion teased of the rapinio dE 1i91r

goa by the torera: tai die iris soip-area: afilcials sing eno

stailco sour 10 the cloi :: 0016. Said.41 66 170 166601101

5, thi:

19. 109 i, leaRned in in set litt thirty telle bundelie

and an is =.

,?."

---

## Page 27

14-00000

Ris botya tie excipoons in god boring ordei. Mincolning our

latoreato is a lub lani requires esci as veli do firmean. Our mai

charge cr

'd chios Bobitos, In arder to avoid to logical: so liai

Te native arall lo aulioce to his orders. Hia moriday rogine a:

Report, reeja and liaisoripto, and inada dies 2e5 le tis alaliou

Lo day are autorot su the biggie capile bad to treactato.

Bob at the Dubterine

ratina care ot to scatorias esplan me local sporante de he

pration could-cerainly find a menace: of meir or to coall

we willin to truth coot tuit tinatio die dain du under 10

2i9-e0% yes-sole.

1.15 9I9 10 1201A1105 : 1: 291

Car:

...

.. •

:

HE TENDAN

---

## Page 28

14-00000

HANG A

...-

• 4:

The ja waits are corted.

io0 said 71d0 ty sido, on lo

macao si

theres tied too t

tarante

Far man blido to do the

2uo unita of one rack each esy

that the versiond dennis to porale,

chocking all the saris, rapiscle mean tures; and rearing bots

unto siss top to botos, s joe that loses añou: thres houro: le

520o maily manages to do cho 16 racia naci sanca. la adilsion, ha

dunts and varuno lio expoed jarla cl the 111:0.0n0o a veer. Tha

aquipoon las boro used soren dajo a took far isre jeers and alterragh

---

## Page 29

: inter in e illino dolini ne righeria

interiore.

In suppère o. an sperailon ol Riat ursercy. Eecept ln tarse eir

casos si operationi secessity, asceso tu tre prentone las toe:: dented.

The otation has mit cãnd te crocer an a shoupisce te imposa :1r1t1aà

frrez..

1...

sel+es

Tue taci tai 1ra.0id10rg vore mil Disced alcauelle 119 2001.

tore; in tie nere il conventanos, ray hiti "dit holpoti lic Vee:069

curicatty sa tEo toidbarteod, and cicli dueids milido de contor vosia

Tar lan ultro trade 1010a

Il tra rica

Piati nor ti 104401l ler Meteorie. 6011 101

Lidea:.

"'''s, a".

---

## Page 30

12-00000

Pitute dindue de the ciaratide la deste, a30 1ho 8-9152 io

to sandi sorocas are concertes, cond predatay succes tras ebest

are belag

probatly direied at la loidi servica, Mich 199

In case ci erer enrgaaci, the chier cá tie calire

maltor cold vard off expoaun by cha

---

## Page 31

14-00000

Is daniel strut it tasi

209 0%

expirinide indi ice

ie 919009 38 Pretin

she law;'

1B quit discres, mui incorenon opratione Le Wood, in waich

va are on mut ova, add vicue ipo ca curaile lines are princes

tie to did to colorald the books is sabid sitt ora: 1: 9030659

see ceralion 1a accelanes die to provide adande dorite 51 crapany

nock to lo our coaï tie laariodi poirea di do linee. is addledia,

¡lammi die mond do late laides greno prong dai lo see li tiere

it train'

---

## Page 32

14-00000

¿il e waie ? de Gndee Hl Grtläe, Güdtle iel.nd.3d

hagi er:-

?my !.. ?.e"'dbr:

dorceah anododo Chally lays

aal del.dcellt.a t di:ady A. iiedi.. a

1=eu o° daiibt ditiide end 11ed.

Te ia;s vere iet: on tor dnar

.el e! 'te4e 1elile9 GeeG E0 dl di el 13

iue tetriilans, bie

eltrlllrt M1. lú cluhlnd iüt dl tütdili' te-tiho1

eesle, "e. el leee1, Mel Üil D01 19 PÜalu Hilef ül Sepetisre

el le cemtllrdne in taltardo d'e llednde ildidily ipi dil dgßhit

100 ee0!: l10. 111. 1OAaAO Dd O iitNrCE El:91244

Alee e Aá Cãe O 0e lee Cal 0id Mlrn ieenhion. dad die Eil

ali larpino ei disc in'es 1h0cd11191y. Allor Dho amtigc'e ioeide

Metel, lorr adeomel Doe GriGid d Mltid GeiahTh, die chlt de diüz

WOWEOOECE 1RE 40 ?174

edi : je di mosii tareilaga-

t: "t:

iu titdere tewwtth old drd iil dith doddd dled peurd ld tigs

•aml ordd G"looGã MeRglde le d ll 196 .d 9-0 *e48

?..N.

:aatte büll the cisilen gAi9P"

Lai "esterpede criond dee attel do taifiaede dlnne rongitict

riia'o ?i..

.etede"d ted d Gralt, Mil ihul ilnd tmhnl eüt

i'ie

---

## Page 33

14-00000

cabien;

the Secresaria: di inciliattoca dil Pubis: morts la trysce so Pina

van ce providiio so-0pa002 servie lo du custonara, dos 1o eh1e

end 1t 1a loaklae lote une Quession de recoverias dead paírs =° vires

Loft to s'ase cier tho yeare theo tha ilces of lemar usera voro

deactiratad.

Is the. dant fey yeare a tou biSCid 18p8 +o

Pareri

the cit seried ta vaderaroli

gareral Iil, tia-i de 1o4e

ce niass

69C3713

socioad, tant add presech, tare

10 d01011+0 100 891d93.

HADY 197144

1e tas: 1941+ 3

ths"

"Le dentie te the me shanied lot die tarri

¿1cá de gradactie sial docure

&A

;:

20."

---

## Page 34

14-00000

coopany people ine li a 11910n1ig =00l Ina: tai use t82 runEing

Lato 18; 3has vaared to check the tientine llina on the rool. Tha

operazor of the peas, & digalíues Laay vish an als of sulkarity, told

¿be moo to cano bacè the seet saruinói bor sustasá ma avny and ase

could Bo% lat anD Latu loa Gouse 10 hia 1000000 To cini to

case back the next sorning. Tod bisband sse aiseping, lal cope boss

Into tbo night Safera--Ua lady vas not ratrio!, Incidentail-uns?

tos a pard t1ne troughsit; dey qui lo 190 cort, sau places if

Pros the piraises, dod they quickió lose lad none, probabiy eilá

that le van s'i quer. Tha iãi sno vas on agato, lui lia ilotiog

200: 483 miv31 L 100195 1.150.

alli help ll eno intonine poo: iccas ouagaci lu the fira: girde.

The lady jua? satiaced dired Mer bor aldier, Co side of a fresirent

11101125 aul in one 6990 6190119 dote al dilarzaig.

*¿ 1à 1a sha agaioni oi es ola coupie those

i cared

---

## Page 35

14-00000

ngo 1o hornados so vorty tho atatias, bus Aboss von and dassatas

1e-iar are being alcared and an dus to sove 1a ult then and

fratall cate orer. One listenias poot la to the bone as the

carpany supertiaor sho has supportd LiBOLO frey tos start: Ala

1o tool wies the

Uho 19st froe salaphone gorulco, and lia Dãa altara dol

for thia larestigativo purpose.

The svesth latasing post 10 10 on apartmant bullding, and it

noelo no coror becausa 14 bas coacesiants to 1100a varo ra

trough the napoley along the fioore nod wil whoo tha mullding

b3iD And thor for deception, os would bary to tear down such o

•¿a building to thad sus more sia tap verso lend lo. Sha diegoa

ein as to upartion's camo lassening ponto contributoe to 160

menati the exposure of on 11stealos pest sould sot saocesarliy

endarms ela othere, Mutasmore, lta diaperoion sizess 1nourea

miy east a snail part of lue operaldo, encept la a lou c9s0s

Maro sho oporator ol ao pars is avare or the ellatence of another

DECaUSO Da sE sha sTasslatas dea sroduct.

+13988105 int

---

## Page 36

14-0000d

Despite lla royaliai disparalco, ISOLO bas been rua cighely

¡and mosthly cvor the jeans. the nost obescue tholor l8 the arquired

craps'once of some day parodro and thair continully do the jot. the

coiophare compari auperuleor aid it inerna recrussed sell and

o seccod lineran recrusiod in

1e121 suppore the uperation coday.

A contract agent to began oferallug une ul the liesenice foota la.

/becane the polosspal outsile case ofiacer for die lacie operatlon

in

repaire ano tunes lp the equipseat, bus no tag micide: nose of the

liatenin-poot, croratore er do minor epaire; in addicios, le apesto

Spartan

aud Poilah and son subittue it restar s00:toro and trans

lators. The Czack

++9001090101040 51

the job alnce lie fascallasion

ef the first cace diro du

Two suctrect debusa who operato

110car1n& 205t8 tal di 1500510: 1038 1s:9 boc: wist

tra cpriatino sin"o

c'on Di the artie.i, tile; aldy dore nlied betwrea end

anil

or a solephone-up eperation depends ln carde part do our abilla to

keep in placo thode porsona sho mare decioped the regalroi

silla and

a cortain ine! 1ra coola dota, Mala polit vas made

10

conce.""les v1t

=no buildore ai the lucercers conco:. Lut 11 applies ever aure to too

piescent ander

inare the buria de

ine trian ascider.

- 2 55.

---

## Page 37

14-00000

jatiaa

FAr" iIi.

SITION'E LOS OE SAP IATIMITINS.

TIni M0i #:1C00K1

u;o: del0ha 10 s00thrat

odoi ul lus ia.

: Tro 0190100, C1.

novera. +Ation ditiiore bAve

tn0 eani wile1 1.19 100: 60

Eare 1, Aralialie veor 1o 0191100

C7909 SET 1UBI5E0

Te n0 Adie! 10 120 1 -r951 101

PIcia ip

'tro

sar'erio prsáuse al use pieiluua iay--iro Didai: 6i9a

repare, suù ia 10je0 ol soo Cuban foiles, Cicia, dnd tugoaiar ildoo.

+1eH:-0-001910

Fohalst

D:1:0D9, 11099 C0j09 AT ASfA:aleÏY

an899110r 089) t:elribitlonl: ++ 9991899378. 1090at01de

""AS+

CCIICAT LLINS

4eo 120:0 i0: erat. 106 d1r

ilc8i9, id tioe .59d9

B74E •JATCM D0S @TASOGOdONN E, 00A iDd0+d 007:999 667 01 1001810

Mals Chliir: 119UT. C4N9.009 10 1.46

+e te

anaß 1Im), 10÷t)

RNC0059140 188 ficlcgs,

Iiine CaD9O I0a0ed 109 D5061nS d9y AN

w.:"

crana.nlione.

:: ene dane didt, dio p'alià igte miriiei

diie a'e

oFpeodir.e

in drduio piidä of,it it

•oni "'l grtniifa: dltoiio

1n= Hit.105 419 148 49919101 199101

"iIe dered11"1!"g

Ird"s, ?1s.?s.

ene =ratiund dei'a trasm

irca the tig.

*.".

"nd "E:

treoed la iauandde iot d sud dedidfere elal doi iehe dordes,

FioDD.Al i20E d0doe, Til is Dldnicill PranddeiB lui coirbii 1g

aai dierlurina "io toe iad trud de doi rggiglinia, ten inridtinà

aio tcae ti be citnoi tra iãg tu tiaol dose ul t0e traudidluro

and aa,ino.inpde, Busd aitnitia, "Boti iegiiai

win iE goiernily

1alai lo tiautiaritie ioro a 31001d adeduhd9, 159; #0 Wt Rtia

i.=i moid in tori, donddão de dide ino foaildü trhict!n"

---

## Page 38

14-00000

aitat des.

retlarrid ths?

-d t m ett!! dill1

ti&h5

Muh teg cure ee luue teenda dl tird drgy deulliaae

aidte =trt137,?

Pre:1IM 190Y d0d C0:l iloido isiAcLo sAde c0? 10

eeolan entt ceier dü dnt du. mian toe borritsy

degits, nui "int.

jnto dre la flaca; dos lighilaiid roiori, da Brndiriylo, Bet

" ara:aLA:10n9 Aie ln iia ataflou, mnd lio de0ia to Do traaDiatas

sre to the handa of the iransistora, pold eariy-somias

iso e.

aimetion mid dlairlbucloa 18 chiy a tirol atop, Dit na

15p0tt45.

se, in the sistior'a cinfloucie artors éo tregbrit prospoiy irsá

iraidndasce pietidd dl dle lage aud

1e 3342 iLalY 409 OR PU9-

"1SA" Le2da.

.-aatsii

Eagasenatrnssatsatarnin

---

## Page 39

14-00000

The acallon'e upond in Impering icloination reporta for trana-

n1sa1co to leadquarsero do maro porsicio, in lia faser piaco, by she

qualley of the hinhisabe repu siepared dy the Booltore st the

Interrept contor, Mons or ou dieresineblo suforsation espearo la

casa dally report. Eera copies có li aro sado dach soraiaa por

a1Eulta280u0 diatritution io ha Jel ol Station and the tus reparea -

officere; tha tranaeripug and 53a0la:10n0 dio diatributal to oporá.

toas cicloera according in tiei? specialtioo. Toud, wori co the

eariy-poru1og barvone sues o la difierone sauto of tie staiico at

tho sono iine. Tos reputa cricor tirai go over tho alcaligato

ropore for cablod indumentisa morte ss Boadquariora, Altar that

troy esaulos tha Cudsa tranacrapia for sanitional dotalle or 1tesa.

Any dissoalrablo Intoralios ha appeara in the traandrlato or

LanAlanon of Boulor. Corda: iniles, end Yugesiar diued de Denugt

to scir aftention by tha apra:sa allicare. And nt aay time,

thoy say recoira a soto e a parasai riott leon tha Chiar of

Stallia, calilna tole artastia io su ite os spacial tapírtanco .

or urgency, Tua palor predicarsilis

1s she Inasdiato traasa1s0107

of repartabla laformativo, Do 1bai lea rulus vill nos Do :cot or

---

## Page 40

4i 29"

2721+

with patein 1a 11029.

tween in.

Han 100300..91101

manittire in ara do the son di daresolve sage, day Day More no

105e2

84-6 42

141.3

tiny are noted ende the ilitbo-abide Ince che dude dial ria:

tear de Baried the thie: dylan, sit.

191959200t

those are too 830:1al siliie

it is..

side are:

...e.

reart deto. 1."

it rest.

---

## Page 41

14-00000

STIPS N9 1199I3N'liCA De:o6e;

ino sang correcponde. ,d sogiae in

1i a 3:00:. 900n

Iy inareras 10r s0d.idi

"i via: !s airendy asori

taat "esi" lipsi

serice llaell tra itardous onee Tino tee imioiioro,

ane rojirio utilcpra sure roasn lia rotot thars drer leni cha: ule

taraot pe:406a 108 10d 06g0s1na.ce1

Toay s0el, 15:9011.:06, ilise

otber goed rajurte oiflcera, en intiague sumvieine of lizo local

ocoDe aud cl licial bersonaillion, aut ibey quat 130p up io da's as

Iocad amuls ty exsouel re rondira do the locoi preaa.

cf iae txc

PEpOrCE OftiCerE MbO VUrÁ OO LA ErOLUGL OS LESOLO BUd EBMOIN?, 00S

has beas wn ist iraseut joo faip enl aso bgil jlaid, dis tae chaar'

oser tuo jearz. ¡lhe tho nalivy aonitora, toby barg devaioped ls

extis aenie racuired by thelr iai.

* tea o

---

## Page 42

BO 1 LOBBer DLOSE CROSO CS 225010, olIcia seconi cargotiny biato.

-

ot one joar'a pruluciion, la that of ise late animaliy tour pres:-

dant of a labor coatedara:loo, a loader la loal and regiolai

Commissat-Iran: activitles; the lap on dia crilco probe produced

alast one filEs of the operatios's dionnaiiared reporta. Tta boa:

prodifie larger luscaliation vas lta Cuisa 5abas67, viade Enroe Linas

accounted for oDo-quarter of LADIN? a prodaition. Tha thu ilces o?

100 cutes prosa servico, an use other baad, sara poor producora.

There la an incordira combination of sitive sad bone 11sed that

shous an Interatira production record. It canaleta ci one lio ia

use bocdquartars of so anti-DoTORs, pro-suben orgaclintion tia: las

exLonalio suppur 1a poililcal ood Interioccual ci:cloa; iuo ilnes

la too home of 1ca casding soirit, a forcer_

of tbe coulery;

sid 11ãô la ve been of lira bibuiar med oi une orization; bed 03e

11ãe in 409 boss of a proalagos lorollocturi uso 18 cary active la

ne orgailiations sofalro. Chose fiig lines produced over 30% i1

reporting. Veer an erece cirug of la due to decur 1a wbich es

principal cancers of the orgacizali tre iciorested, 1% viii bo

ґорог-од

1D

frana:ata " so differor 11ios no too same or successl

days, but

willian

---

## Page 43

14-00000

18 sistin

"??.

tree, trend

ilca.

1i6.9.

Tual an, provided in individini lines do produce un trag-

at appal, bu: they aste produced very littla, diropranei too

siDe carge: Linda mentioned adore produced abou: 20% d 1aJ01F?'a

disooninated repores. Tra fire lices of lo Sortel esig88y 85c0un°09

Per 108 of, the uneraller's

Production, and the orbor 11iee frauied

only a few

scattend reporte each. Me production o: die 0'o tea

productive lices

se 1'o: lied for singlinens; tore sore pose

twins aal reinirsiy mine; zantes, but those lines produced it

winchel throwing me year. That incinully beles tie acoliera

erects, as w9

231 our customera bave arten armed the need for a cooilans

To tale focaned production it decle;

Eta sur late, clara der oparturites fir breta scapariairo.

crarr..

O2 11E

Durian the pasi vest, tie

Dirt 85

prais aril

men: it sis radicy bore the

"gene"a

Let ties: de 190 in certain ther

te pigline prettised

"it'"

---

## Page 44

14-0000

18227 dE.

1.oma:10.

despite to

let dad the drill,

each jer de strate rag mattino

do time?

Intelligence procainty do ania dice in troup of loses to riotecio

production on ian naraid extori fron cardela of tale 29 iat

nationally. limont tata st1i1-5

" trate tbe orlata a tre pratuat.

1% 1o linionalDie to: th9 Eratito do toge 1le Largettro de anyahing

Fore ran

as a whois to stuli pationa c! perductirtty af 91011e 1411020 10

discaran: areng, sad co eatinum lie arotacle productivity of projected

÷2a71

---

## Page 45

14.00000

in bie reinre petsore, and do boat of tid rase dificero so well,

and 129l ls a good voralia sovlesge of Spaniao, tra "laisaiation

of the Spantri innevage mio Pron tre EnDINT ducercent canter and

ins 28s0Ld 1iacentn0 are is 00? colage: by tracalatlor, like tho

produce of the cries, Cont, Yasiolar, Aid Pollad Ilnes, Watch

Faerial in Spania

in dennise, Croch, Politie, in

jara mi part to line tapes imonit le airided.

But in order to raduce

is deadlinted and trardistora

litesiste

---

## Page 46

14-00000

ica di dird dice dei tornadiel

irai sodi prain la lesito,

v3: 130

---

## Page 47

14-00000

Mat add dilisers or cier

Soria: 11190; Ant

and transistland ince 109 Me-las dias

0: 210016 theY:50091

11198 is

Pa. The i9de

1oos prlaarily for neu upermiscui leado, bus toy alon

arago too aditing out of unat dili sa re:alond and sha: visi ba

threun gray. The sa casa cilicer eatinatos that about 108 or ta

take 16 s9p: and gogo into case liao; too soot do trour avay.

CALAYAN TATE,

Miseryl:.

Billis 1049-9101001 dad gestieet..

The

case t1-i?

varling

sagain asses at each 2ace? jerene, the mature, troguency,

los calapiara tapo scurines prorido

digita: -49. 11101

co tea: rush di

an It 5!

10g4:10),

renailly, hlo relaicas

---

## Page 48

renale Le SE Miliar. l9o Sito,si100 derlood fre Lo lolerhone

sisboago pou tare caror pot bia." Aii Julorativo consideral iod-

ful 1a diura in "àio mot of Elior beliro dt quos lulo ico caso

81l0s; asl to 0f20n resione di to too cose otticar concerned vita

hio or errato or diriticas. lo indo my be beepa abresst orery

benef1? a Mis guida. e di diery

---

## Page 49

14-00000

1..54.

Tui K19-

11.701. ii.

-.i1)%

.'

tr.g

pe apo: incursion faldel tra ile lie disinun tronchin dir ilot

AniM" i50 5900-0 14 1944

One I9!0M sont el 12110re

tosto rollati, tesset he

raphe enart liste

1160184

1.e:8 15100194.

"ried

226s:e 6:8 vay 10

andia il 9 7i0N. 1000 1 -

sioni di est cita

Tenendere migliaio lotra die cincialiy

++599-498 1a6 41100s

---

## Page 50

14-00000

=.2+o.

eqtedd eni tldonnta"..

?e ltd de d re dnpeGie,!

"rind

-it....

x "r.jud

CRltad f'Eriion1.e

cetan loo iile dil éaeco "i "reilled diiü

ioi.no

taar"

le te caprutteree

MüeMt!?Aar 1100

1:.=

iicd

ea dgema 0 sid gitli1.

•1723

MENEIMG

---

## Page 51

ta-inden

di da telatin sanda

1...

The reade:

proporij, "A: S:CO 9409: 0119 :910-900-29p Colerada do so linee

aration'a abrongio and di 1ea ability to ergiole altecrively tha

eso capa. Thore lo alo0 le junativi al largos avallability: a

large statino volt vasto 1is a:magc 11 11 estonded 1ts tap

comprata--a con aiù naturai urge--to carsala cl ailgar Iniamot

cao glier Intisatione al lie varialy and Isporcaira di to targato.

Be iiin Averlino malido veo are Dicillay ia overinron teo pro-coycos

doveroamita ci trol. ero countrles.

Tein 1a the ail-important Caban

19rg9t, mulch has luiced cal tu de sary ricauctlie. Tore art tbo

PAPROR Comualat espatriares, a cardol df broat Incarcas in Calve.

Pinally, there ar tia represenia iras of tna USSR and ite Buropean

settiliies, vec si7 vorklug for 2e Jubriaion of ail l4:1n-Asarica,

Ant 208 in1i

the tacery 6b0re iny are sitioned.

Trad, t0e

etatirn'a dá

isaãui direa are direttod di daiuo variaty di dorai,

regiura:

arig

alchai nURaRr targare.

in roe ur nodi

in additica io ine

1:0: 0: 689104 3.1 hid

defety, tere

---

## Page 52

repare choicers, tio

laterisenio assisses, and one pbotograpor.

muppore. Toe cap opertlons and the riated surrelilance and 15v08t1-

statia. De product of the tapo so enmined lo part each day by all

the obber scatloa cano officore, to voose operations li mles a sai

StantIa: scatrIbutIOn, IRSOLO Bad IJOLTY, therefore, are so? opert-

E10se açai: trua 210 otiara, kut an esterora tato most or too

•tation' a work.

---

## Page 53

The excolles al ise atation'o duo lap operationa la rellocted

in eboir operational reporting. Ii progress of IRIsT for ebe

past thre and ase Bai" yours la succiacty soid ii sosiy ditio

11t1eo reporto, tegun in Ma

Theos reporte ar diapatebes

'a abos: chree pages: armagod 1s lio policoing dequesco el alghe

beallaga: do me i6s00 1n operaitor Aurias los malt; 2. Era out-

A 11a1010 develepenta: i securisy: t. cocasic?.

Dereúnnel;

8. produccion; à iles of ce isturaation reporte do:: 6y cabla os

diaprion en besiusa-tois. To case reddings dirage appost, la the

adog order, 80

ha pur into such a lily pairage. it jurera la greni daraid tha tro

laçanded prisartig tu jroduie Ci, M 1:101099.c1 23d cooraclcasi leado:

Cl. 1 Intonation, 11e reportine of the cioratich prinross of

coo pus carationa indio tos dor dilicons sodi lafcrond só sattera

of deli: did engiies 15s lo proser! 60 A902319 Ai. 041 CI 16047

GaTallois dien CGied 111d011 de Appi: 11 1140198.

AJ311

.....

---

## Page 54

14-00000

pr.ci, d

ciiminil no

The sasy faciera enat entor 1u9o lte suciens of a esinjiczo-lap

,oporaeiio shoull te appareal irds lia Soregolrn accolii: O: ¡ANiLO and

2RJCIYY.

The mein wing vill be iriefly noced teloy.

1. Exrarierio: -To extraio a valuatlo intoliigence irodur: lrce

rse 209 il ta'l roquiro speclai diliis. Mo too ouet laporcari aro

the dslll uf lue enrlicre, uho 3us:

ssparaie ise vura: Érin uie ciaf?,

não tre nitii of do mieii9 atriceio diù duas pu: ecão car liaaideriary

corvarsstions iniu

zaninpnal. cotrrid.

mua engperiere de lodirt tuali koy.

meaters i an Epera:10r dejcids de coutiauilt de 600 :64; A 59,10= 2U55-

ungi or los-ta,lè ccatlco

j:àest rous.

3. Eicicacuãueo dre vaive ol eie isciude dezenda di äice

randilió nnd tracoalesioo, tron suilioré to idie efticero, lo roperta

oflicoro, lo Mesuguarcara. 1i mero 1a

a ecirieroci anpslero, tio

vholo proceda dego doun, G'aytra on tup la geseatlai, ba-tiogo ai

tata1.

Tares

tues erere duace el eitost de 5º9y dn e0:, Pus tlek-

oie 1t teieitira-tag 49r091015 lica tidl de lieir rolne, ail ao

aimacy eusojuerasin ettori lo laraaly vud'ed

3 macca Diri t90 3eri0e8 19000 do A geciien Crcuraci:y

cl ajeratii de inidioel lave a tiaiie Ol BiNc909 DiB "izaurliV 0l

inieres: cai le dauied by ehe chosio dl "argel iued, of jotri's

=naisas (rotiier irébricued for iaisà oférationai

aaù beot al all dy lie uandro and yuriity of bão produca.

.s1at cop oporaticó dtudd toi dbincerade into a railie of

•or tuta gidea citrioua." Ie squlty 4º tno 0000=

int..

etgher baud.

.. .-

---

## Page 55

ta-tedes

larcired, 133

1: 10 due escian so a: tree anti i: is 5a-didety lo

do cios nil veli.

The "partird i" ail lha participan"s mili be

• darested. by one person sod vores lato toe stailor's port do a

uncio. ¡non erioptero-ida preraiduco ano dibatia, 11to Erci ad

his pricellal dindre161e8 il 10d:009104119.

sen les ipera:10a

1÷ A

atarlon chie?'d skiti.a.a

7562.9

eo pocali tai aridia e cguito io ti al the stano and do triacair ii

1ntart carabot tog coire or la iperallen.

---

