104-10071-10081)-.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only :
Do Not Reproduce 3 P> f
cORFIOETAL RT :

Yieciy,

| GaTHUCTIONS—OSccr danignations theo bo ed inti “TO eotomm Under each comment Hine ehoxfid be Grau ecru eect
ead xed cocemect numbered to ccrreapacd with th combar bs ths “TO” eofrms. Each affiear choald initial (chosk mark tnexets=t)
balers forthe rocting. This Beating ood Recnod  bact elischd to returned to Rageery. 23

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Scio _Ss-


14-00000

a ~
: : 23
VIA_ALr Poush Nos oo DISrATCH SO.__(CRghoAn6).
ites eteceicey
TO 2 Chief, FDR 4 stag Wis 18 Sept, 195)
FROM? Chief [2-15
SUBJECT + = operational

Specific - Countess Ellen Nohenau

1. Subject, a German Countess with a reputation as a horsewozan, has been
in Jordan since the end of June 1951. «tncouraged by the publicity cained
following her trip from Jermany to some as a pilgrim on her ‘rabian m:re,
Subjeet decided to undertake the trip to Jerusalem on horseback in order

to yather material for newspaper and marazine articles. ‘carrying a letter
sent by Clare Yoota*uce to a mtual friond in Italy indicating an interest
in the c ntemplated trip to Jerusalem, Subject proceeded. to Beirut where she

contact@i*Zell}" the ‘igparhise” correspondent. Slthough she received little
encouragement from Refi, she st»rted out on the tourney and reache? Amman on
23 June.

Rts ter a atin, delay in Amman because of illness, Subject had audiences
i fi@tait and laier contacté

duliah ‘er ubb [Pasha\who furnished her with
on Arab Legion escort for the last leg of the trip lerusalem, Upon reach-
ing Jerusalem Subject wag, receiv Katie*&ntonious and presented to a number
of Palestinians including Or,) Mousa Husayni and his Cermin wife. Shortly

after Subject returned to Amman from Jerusales, Abdullah was assassinated and
Subjoct was cuestioned in an effort to establish Dr. Husayni's connection with
the plot, She convinced the police that she knew nothing of the scheme,

3. By early August Subject's resources nad dwindled to practicaliy nothing.
Through friends in the Arab Legion cavalry she wis able to secure accommodations
at the Zerka Camp (15 miles from Amman) as the fuegt of the Legion, Yuring
this period Subject became acquainted with (Colonel iiabis eyyMajalli, the
commanding officer of the Hashemite Regiment of the Legion and a judge in the
Abdullah assassination trial. Following the exposure on 1 September of the
scheme to place Naif on the throne and the possible involvement of Majalli
in the plot, Subject was again questioned r ing her activity. However she
visited Glubb Pasha and convinced him that she had,no interest in politics end
that her only reason for being in Jordan was to pursue her interest in Arabian
horses and to gather photographs and other material for magagine articles, She
obtained his permisaion to remain in the country for a few weeks loncer and on
18 September accompanied Majalli on a trip to Kerak and Aqaba in order to obtain >!
material on the Bedouins, Before leaving she stated that she will spend about 3
ton days with Majalli and then a few in Amuan before starting out on the return =)
trip to Europe, faa
cos
a
S
a.
3:

Tio

. Although the Arab Legion does not odject to Subject’s presence in the
country, the Prine inister's office is anxious to have her leave ag soon as
poosstle, They consider Subject with auspicion because: (a) they clain that
although Subfect states that she is from weatcrn Gerzany they have information
that phe trom Prussia, (b) of her ‘riendghip with the Husaynis and Ma jalli

TR COPY



iisatatritar ; . aaa Bae 0
‘ CONFIDENT ay

624 (0) oho hao actually eato UStlo cfford to gather eattrdal abt ghsics
ef her trip to Jenicalta althergh sho fa fa desperate uscd of eoneg.

. The above is boing foruantsd to headquarters for carding 62d to |
28 Be in tho event Subject otéga fa cltsr plsso aficr Isaricg cs
‘ ‘

ee

4

Dass Mac

