# 104-10196-10354

## Page 1

104-10196-10354

---

## Page 2

PRAFT

DE REPORT

Fof RC. Deliire

to Eenni Prg NeEd 1sI6

P95597794

---

## Page 3

Salzest:

Refisenes:

thomological Suraiy

1 Rificia

2067

Tu prspose fittis stir susi;

bor

inte s 15 erstens Commission

den so te Cent:

---

## Page 4

longbly awaitin

(Gigitti, misty nites if the same nichon chest)

Thiss, aid still,

rizinted from a bright, sensitis aucatas

, the tra C11

agains the dicet and

Citina Cantancis, in Mexico city.

Life dir ths pres of the litest stron,

annis and do antonato eris 7.

this plotigine mere made aracte

as a suarts i procle, use in d

SISI

reparatio

ring investigator. V us pront gimp,

die rialogges

---

## Page 5

ithod were

but nd, shore to Irs Crate,

prent a git of in fune

who might time Can brons to

hep and bring then hiri

i contact sets her son.

Mr Mangaint

Dowild did pust at the ta cecogning

sies shoose to Me Morgus, Ganesh

in tallis da i, training if Nicer 23,963

My FBl agent, Bandeed. D. ODOM.

The Wari Commissions go decide

the sequence of went see is pp: 364-5

ane 16 (Achment 6) think tea,

sented in Mi Manzanite Lear 20

allegaters that to fired plasti

---

## Page 6

linding

hod been the fast thet, when the had

ilustrato (Thas gre,

Theat tisse

Esse dificultes Hz Siga truthe

proporte

in da politicigend, it

dica custures lis the mestia mente

---

## Page 7

disone a contes piecs in an altimate

explosiation thit halle Botrald to home

"".;

---

## Page 8

Rimition

3 Lee Kong Bal Me in 0, 5 Du tigen

distan one

dunchojaid

1963, the plot ghe o te mident fier

tensily there, doe

Shots

le i digion atten t du 1 gras

sabbationt scotos

it's the fai gist, to is made stand,

what was done by the nates das ottons

I bride her in ponia stat

---

## Page 9

I so Maico dog, again,

wite Ngo actino so this information lafore

intry the Big afte

4 Zaom all cuditl snidease docrose to this

tras (ani, sicidusti, added sisice do

exteowstioo.mngas.cmk/46-Wossewe

mission), lee they cold spurnt

It full dega nath & pasted day - shout

116 anato sis all - ssi Alexico lot, form

about 10:00.27 Isolates B8th t start

0800 2 Octobes 1963. His gift paint 17

riders cos a posall to mossat

sating bood de tiles fastes, boty ween

---

## Page 10

and stereogation by the or issa cuttin tep and

the 761 establite, That ms the secration of

all hotel prost he lift said and

mid was end, no, tie thes he

shyat 1s o the the if his stig for a

39 bonsol, the e

a station rai

18 hover of arti, to be accrated

fr. Test Quence on the boris

If it's contage can account sally

I for minutes during ta

37,29

sistenden and I Catta. All courage

by elt dering the peed win tedionine,

as fin

Osseld are

---

## Page 11

None

a sting tote US: 1959-1962 seck

sezetied in Megico then files before

10 artike 1163, when the infan tie,

The Plation ast f'8 kitcher foushing

ma routin basis whnt won judged

ti lu an Eisuicion cositant for a pisa

indicated had deduced forg

on fortra, мойс, вн

dusing his stay to Maico city did de CHA

senio of all concrage, asin usticept, soot

litigiophic a Satis Land broh

Friet and Calama Geolenses sos misse

Bing thy Station on the 22 and 23 Nasadle

---

## Page 12

148s aft, the savestitis going hech

to matricto form, aid year. It is Thee -

fore fin that they was de CHAt plant

comesage of basried it any this bessing

As this rutisent date serioused boy

the soston on the has of the ICatober

integat (while lind been resented to

Ape and disaster to interesters

member the nitilliganes corones

the are be disince be braig doord car.

Hey are a are date the cite

and, patentity, of intent ti is dient.

mento stat -termed menths.

leased on content, not an identes,

with mustrias sites pted in 2) and

o8 Septionhe 1963. Mottles beard pe roice

---

## Page 13

eroproism (incept coat done la

wanted les, the merite and this ope,

not insigfient license of the pore

Russian epither ly Gandal) could

Cood bun

LahoretTa

It stold bes noted That Bones antisept

and phs stice coverage was notices

registin, precluded amy this hast

the apert gurting of itin If jindged bey

the morist of nose them toering r

sitients and tipore Modigs notes

face tiralation, it bath. Plats arrange

(Trades

---

## Page 14

14-0000

An a raid aood secel sated basis. On

of the "tigger" That sites, sesates

to foess and decellisat the has saises

and egoting of this heard if sain

intelligene in the mention 2

Bus This, ma passised, what riccanesd

Is alou he said his so "hee Convala!",

sood it was this informatin seprotes s

Wit in shin one the in ente

---

## Page 15

Tus Alexico City Stations died tre bars String

in its segrit to Ostored based on its

diss data seth, increation, it lead

requid from a collatin soccer

a plato gagala, to pro Mier station

bac monk

aspirat, a me he watered

intering the Smit antony, i other,

The stations agerated thise detacks an te

did not hell roost on senggent theat

in fort Osweld, on indeed, mi any

5. he thing band Borers his Minis

city shes: One additional elmet of bandi-

---

## Page 16

(?

stand mind the stipen a ted the ne on

the finel pucritics, to indestructiong

Els plit of the when idshed,

placed in the chain pricles da 28

November in Calls by the 781 agent,

Bondone (20mi 0e

So what

sate, egot

was the tatale i e1A energ, or

of bowls actority as of the aftanton

of the zaand and 292d when all archable

coreogs look luen is decked?

crocesse

swald, crisisted of fair (5)

maice bateseget as follars;

---

## Page 17

(Friday,

37 S47 1963

D

Silvịn

tollo Mo that thò Amaricen citizen vaa thore,

tho

one who,

wants l vion for cuba on his way to the Sovie: Union and ho vants.

to knor with whom ho was talking thero because uhs (Silvia) had

sent him to the Soviet Embaroy saying

that if thiey socepted him

and gave him a vias then the Cubania (Embrosy? raild also give him

a visa without further poper nork only advisins Immigration in Cuba

A different

him; This ero anys to

aye

Silvia give

elephong

• 28

S1lvsla, Eakes advantage of the

T leuban Conoulat

d states sho has more

and wanto to adriao tho Soviet Embe

that she can rocolve the

sIvo her now addross, then Adanks the name of the Consul or

Cultural Attaohs.! Silvia anys the ram 1o Teraja PROENZA, and the

telephoné number 1s 14-10-26.

no toye thanko.

(Frida

B. 21 Sept 1963 16:26 Music Cos ten. :

---

## Page 18

Silrid dare de

Soriet

intre was is Fuasfan,

but

Cas: B499999 tilS

"ist

fron lachlagion in respoct do this

and Bicording to this

precolure it lakes four -o fing

without haring pormlestes fron the soviet Valo

83k,

or setter.oald, they cannot leone & visa dorg

Nishant

asking inshingtone horover,

signa

accordias to. this zam

a letter lillenting ha

En3 A nonbes of si cbcarlastion

In

ci. (li and that the

tacatible bardog a vian for,tho Soviet Valon; and now

cuband sald that they catses losue

not for tha: to do with lla' (to Amentoan), Nockire tasy

1o991t for tha answer fact hashluston:

i!!.

The here. i

..in ini

Restlear

1n

:8 chat da tauo lE will Lo ditficult for 11-8: 49: 6

ven for cuts.

cecausg he was thinkles of precessla, sla riaa

(For soils: Valon), locaune he list de jould tequire

411?258

1or t1-o fer hia visa to the Soulst Union Wallo In Cuba and Eroa

thore so to the Soviet Union.

MI 6a1u Cho thing 1s che: 16 810

wife ries nor vero du Washingtou sho would receine les viss

riabon, or pemission, fron the Soviet Unlo,

to icines to her

coitry, she la soins fo rocalva hor visa' in Washingtes but Laving

this visa, cho could communicate to my place thio r-ission,

for example sere or auy plaço she could receive 1t (riss or permiasion)

but right sow they do not havo than. (n0 Ina tienen).

cortsiziy and thiy cannot siva a letter elthei because ibes do not

Know 1e the visi will. bo approved. MI Bayothey only sai viGRO

accorns to ludications.

silvin says than sha will purchas on the

lists it days he canat sive a lotier of recomendation either

per on to age A a bad excue is fo: bothering

C. 28 Sort 1963 (Saturda) Ii51 Mixin CI

TIth sovere and coments In Spanish that the

14012-99 e01

to take the nuater dors - Silvin

sane 13 solis to tals with year pustica

Speals in Erglist.

Tisy continue

Do Sat!: AerIcan Ss's, Please speak EuspIan.

ta ss's thes for ro ssdrus, bacalls they have 1t.

a I did not know it then, I vent to say don't...

Ia: ese saln sad. leave your address with 13,-

Cub=s Sr239Y.l Annican Boss I'll be there richt

Siag

- Le-the Soviet The

---

## Page 19

D. 1. Octaber 1965 (Tobada), 10:31 stegico

em) constants the Sorest Soberia

SECRET

The somet

Consul:

I was it your place Inst Saturday and talkad to jour

mey Bald that they'd send a telegram to Inablaston,

no. tuanted to ook you if there 1s anything neup ranys I'd

111 to ask you to call another phone number.

Pleasa write 1*

doves 15-60-55 and ask for a consul. Thank you.

E: 1 Cutatue 1963 (Tweatos) , 10:45 Asia.

No fthe sams peraon who phoned a day or ao ago and spoke in

brain Russian), speaka to OBYEDKOV, (He saye:2h10-19 Jee

CEND speaking.

• Nas at your plac

kissslagton,

IS CS"ALD. OBEDKOV Gaj8, Just & minute I'll find out.

or that troy haven't received/anything yet. OTNALD aDJa:Esse

they done anything? obisdkov sajo: Yes, they say that a reguest

"has been sent out, but. nothing bas been received an yet.

CoNNO Baja And what.

ODYEDKOY hangs up.

---

## Page 20

7. Al f tes items, mesy.

Mariail by sassen Criminin, State in

that aspett hove

2222245

storient 2-2

---

## Page 21

Odess. the is told the consol wins mat son,

and I call bindi at 1130 Ossild is bicort

folling nor

ms relinific foolini Cannes

neva in may not

milled hit waves

from the contust Is tok pie

---

## Page 22

trike spin than Suites.

ки

The Smus resindent.

NO peeke| to broken.

Spanish then in Enblish to MI. No says

a: Call on the other phong.

'anza I'm looktng for a vioa to 20 to Runnie. 'M goya: Please,

call on the telephone of the consul, 15-00-55.

moment please,

Mir have to doo a yencil to vender da number

don. They logue the vian there?

ja that depends on your

converoation. I don't know about thia busineon: Please Che

tbe office of the

consul and ask your queation

number again

ves him. the number pad tella

the Consul of

Soviet Embassy In Maxico,

Alm

1000k. for

bye donk, one. ^

ernest,

The Soviet sings:)

The Somet

ti Donald

The relance of this intercist bolininetst

см. @ donald lose

boad on all the creditil,

have made this

and foot wint

---

## Page 23

paro incidence

i time the bye

- Goned, mode the frein

sitant with to listen and frist

official establishi no Mixico cos:

Friday.

Lept 1963. Aft annie and chechen t

tim hah

tomas the

enter.

Calvin

time f his scend

about 1600 (16 just lifer along).

misit

I have minan $

it is the second later high

he tathed wets at the Soviet Gustering.

comes, brad on the restlestion tows

retices still i senior is to, we

---

## Page 24

Pral punction

Bastint 4a

Is met yet esplamed:

(1aturd, )

28 Slugst 1B63

Note :

стильну

licle

I aid frust bidenie

well, does to de public.

and fradays.

---

## Page 25

this busin

he wild.

c: 29 tent 1963 (Sinks)

No acting

sign tie

30 Lipt 1s6s (Manda, No actins

68:30:)

= and rips

Entert y the this call, If moses

the mold to ta no sc

---

## Page 26

14-00000

ро сові Матки з вл

Old would liare

It alint mid-lay it registered of

lite

fall thy.

and Atte

* Th

no. he

latin, rad

Americoe who sutried

a bit in let the doe

from the photo gugh, the statin sout

---

## Page 27

14-00000

riprite d

222222

---

## Page 28

STATTOY SQUED PASS BARO NSE AND PARA GAS THE LAS

25506

TO AND THERE ORICINATES MITH KES!

REF AND POSSIDIE IDENTIFICITION PRING DISSENINATEC

SO LOS OF SEN SOARD, NA, LENE:

PiS LEEP

FES ADVISED ON ANY FUCIUER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE IDENTIFXCATXOK

CE OSWALD.

•According to itstoy i act,

parless male

said his nado too

No Recal Disseriatios hide

SH/CHA/RULL TEN CrAPES

(in dratt)

Brides

LIESSIES.

DARICER

1-209205

•...

COO DINA

VAR DITICER!

ECAST

REFRODUCTIÓN. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FF.OHILITED.

JUICIR

Copy

---

## Page 29

MANET COT ES/AMERICAN MALE UNO SROKE

POKEN RUSSIAN &

SIP MIS NAGE OSULD EPHONETIC, STATED ME AT SOUENO ON 23 .

VALERIY VLADIMIOOUICI

NUTHING NEU REITELECRAN TO WASHINGTON. ORYERHON UPON CHECKING SAIN

SOWEST LED THE DONE ON I GOT. APPARENT ARE 35, ATHELTIC BUILD,

STEGAS STE, RECEDINE MUTALINE, BROINE TOP. MDRE KHAKIS

310 SORT SHERT..

5. " Lost dissination tuas being more

e by its

Statino i

10, Con 10 Getter 1963 at 20:12 Ze tim

the spent recein from Mexico Stater totes

---

## Page 30

14-00000

callateral ilitas de asse fo

Contise

1. 0. 1 OCTOR 1963 A PLANE AND EXERTIVE: SOURCE.

IDSELF AS LEN OSWALD, COMMIcTen Min CovEr risissY iN

LEXICO CITY INQUIRING METICH TUE LIBASSE HAD ACHINES

CYRUS CO CLALING A TELEGRAM MAICH MAD DESK SENT TO

35 TARS OLD, WITH AN ATHLETIC GUILD. ANCUT SEX ITET TAL;

WITH A ICEDLO MILIE.

AT IS BELTEVED TUAT COYALD MAY DS ICRITICAL TO LEE

rohins u.s. MAnia viC DErECTED TO TiS SOVIET titON IN

CO2035& 1050 AID. LATC? MAOR ARRARGEIVES THROUD THE INSTED

STATES ERASE fALSECON TO RETURN TO THE LOSEST

DESIC)

POSINOTA

AND

224S

CHILD®

SO THE MUCHATION IN PARAGRAGE ONE IS SSING DISSEALED

1O YOUR TAPROSE TATIVES IN MOHICO CAFY. ANY FURTHER INFORUATION

ECCRIVED ON THIS SUBJECT WILL TE FURNISIED YOU. THIS INTORATION

IS BRING MADE AVAILABLS TO TIP TNMIGEICION AND MATURMIZATION.

". Elling the restin the bunter dete

---

## Page 31

1d-0d0d

RRUSAKAVA.

Neither, if there issons she significant.

Ms pistent mas,

deality mit, a consiss

the phs cigitas 1 an unident his individual

hee Gameld, as an?

escriptime fort

i. Henarison if the two cadle wis

The car to question that the thist.

miscending if the Mices Stations sent

---

## Page 32

pion life please: the dengutise

detail attribute t Oswald were

as for off the murk that they

instates rearing th an such

ly the repents, (ba prestil

explanatin, if mat iscalpatin, litt

walled that as that winet.

cAthas had no plant gigsh

Of donald to righs to.)

12. Confesinitens of this jüdgement the

cable conley. the same analyst and

seat 72209 27ine I tur bruss

---

## Page 33

lates ta Maxico Statino!

Create t

LES STILD NIO CHILED SOVENE I GET PROBALL? IDENTICIZ.

LOUISTAVA, POSIST RADAR OPSRATOR IN UNITED STATES MURINES

VE I TO SEE ME COT 1959.

OSTAZD IS FIVE TEST TEN

INCITES, ONS ALTERSO SIXTY FIUS POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN VATE WAR,

BLUS EYES.

•2. OY SACCI 1959 HE ATTENTED TO RENOUNCS HIS UNETED

STATOS CITIZUSSIP TO THE UNITSD STATES EUB IY MOSCOT,

INDICATING ES EL APPLIED FOR SOYIET CITIZEYSHIP. ON 23 J2B

TIES US EMB MOSCON RICKIVED AN UNDAISD LETTER FROM OSMALD

POSTMARKSD. MINST ON FIVE FEB. 1963 IN WHICH SURE INDICITED

IS DESIRSD RSTLES OF HIS US POT AS MISTSD TO RETURY IO USA

IT "IS COULD COS TO SCHE AGRESS CONCERNING TES DROPPING

OF ANY LEGAL PRCCISDINGS AGAINST ME" ON 3 JULY ON HIS ONY

INITLATIVS IS APPERSO AT TIE FUB HITS HIS NITE TO SES ABOUT

201-257245

HIS RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT AS ACTUALLY END NOVER:

L2ULISD FOR SOYIST CITIZENSAIP IND THAT HIS A?PLICATION AT

1000.0763

•COORDINATING, OFFICERS

7E SONTINUED

AUTHENTICATING

SECRCT

REPRODUCRON SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

• Copy No.

3: 9094

---

## Page 34

14-00000

TINT TIC HAD BEY TO RELIS IN USSA AND FOR ISORIT INDISION

O% HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OLTOCHE OY INS RSQUSST, TEIS

APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO ESTALO, CONTAINED NU REE TO SOFTSE

CITIZONSEIP. OSWALD STAIND TIAT HAD ESAY EMPLOYSO SINGS

13 JAN 1960 IN BELORUSSIL' RIDIO AND IV FACTÓRT IN HASI

MISRE FORKED AS DISTAL MOLISS IN ESSALICH SHOP. OSTAD ILS

SIRRIED ON 3O APRIL 1961 TO MISINA VERONETNA PESATOVA d

DENTAL TACINICIAN BORN 17 JULY I911 USS&. NO IDAS TICES.

ES ATTENPIED ARSANGE FOR HIPS TO JOIN HIM IS LOICST SO SES

COULD APPEAR AT EXS FOR TISI ISTERVISY. HIS LUSRICLY DOT

HiS RETURVED TO HIM. IS INE MOSCOY STATED iNT ONES

OF RELITISS OF LIES IN SOVIET UNION HER CERTAIT CO CARTEE

SIPSCT ON OSWALD.

3.

LARISST DOS TUTO DIS BRUCED ASTORS LATIN MIX 130E

SAYTIG CARLTO LAD DETEIUIISD OSTALO IS STILL US CITESY TO

BOTH NE AND HIS SOVIST VIES HATS EXIT PERMITS LYD DEPT STATS

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR TUSIR TRIYEL WITH TIZIR NINT CHILD

TO USA.

"COTTLES)

• EASILE

REPRODUCTION

CODROINATINE OFFICERS.

-SSCBST

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE.

Caciers piano 508.149776

dous 2 292122:%

declassosalina

PROMISITES:

DEFICER

Copy Noi

---

## Page 35

B. The bead quest thirtet fud back

flat cret disciption stridd

to inconging it with the, plot t

to midwe fid male, It hey these

he say cre Mexico Stin

electrical, dilined t t, deant le

It wants that do penis

the пол

т Mexico

is the lee Gmald in,

Mize cat.

and subut on the san

---

## Page 36

ti alute lel inen neeied lig ict ote

Lihorther

(22 No1963.

1. Wichi, èt linitaterin ind eguntitis,

ilexics 05 statio tnd dow all ot aunch

l aougil, eetl, ten lpuntro catrcatãro i

O Hindqwas tes lind hiise alites any

teens ttim agorips weth, inistigutis, spling.

mileiet in Gosiald liad heen aluntig

tats, in tgs wisheng tes mnd an die, filh.

@ Meiu lif land no fustho critiit

liy dosnlh if report lecsine -os it to

uthuitl, rocctnns te lird tift

Aingreo eay ne a Ciliher.@@@omrald.com

mot na azurz cinestigntis reusstit5,

ss any coss, hnan wies e plastgugile it

Lag the artes interetto US azuecés

---

## Page 37

side a positio intentification can receive

also.

Then matt itis, if thes

intel mid-don

22 Nevin lur 1973.

15. On z2 Neviaten

1963 Mi Mexic C05

with is assimates and defusemis

mood 15

it entic belga mess 29,9 mind

Iss. rela 17 10 Gitits. The staters

REQUEST PRIORITY POUCH PHOTO OSWALD SO THAT STATION

SA CHECK ALL RECENT KNEE COVERACE FOR MAN CORVARDING

SOONESI COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVENE EUCE END COULD

B& IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD.

Ca

14. It is chem tent Mexico Station lind Aspe

---

## Page 38

that the accurat descriptins of Swall

410 mily mists a the

Sit Shang mi lOtten who cruell

It: This Station bank necutiel; begun an

artistine and nicellerated never fall

it Festical and plastigrative costelligener

Ge dispatch was gregree in accordance

wet the indicatio ques in the Gates 7

a Nosember, uter in pans is alone, the

dispatch noted that last emerge s

---

## Page 39

Retrie, iT Is Bruit and Clan Schemis,

Aquatin, The tat if the, 3240-11963

fond Ocuber 1960, whick appeare is be an aersean, This time wam visited

stachedlare copies of the onl pliotographs obtained bee

the Suviet Embryoy on 1 October 1963.

2.

Copies of these photagraphy vere shown to The U.S. Ambissidor

n 22 November 1963 and'a sopy of cuch of fue two photographs was given t

Chief Perry Mexico, on that dat

IP. S.

of dispath The lOcobeen need athe typing

of dispatch.

person entered the Culin

ship That the Stren as working with posed

draft in agrant from the text f the do pot c, whe

That feet, was It inted arthusing

Cohe #: + 77-001532 tim 23 Noreden:

1. NEXT'STATION HAS PHOTOS SANS UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN

YPE VHO IS POSSIBLY OSWALD ENTERING CUBAN ENZASSY ON 13

OCTOBER.

SEARCHING FOR POSSIBILITY PHOTO-DOCUMENTED ENTRY

CUBAN ENBASSY OTHER DAYS.

2. ALSO A.

• TEMPTING ESTABLISH OSWALD ENTRY AND DEPARTUSS

MEXICO.

---

## Page 40

18. Birth ernes Killin

get of what its tripind i ching

sistethin

Ped ite

The next dine pennient

is tent, reflected in a passial sitt

mailed, fine lact toget met emis

oft platga day the 76 agestate

---

## Page 41

ly cable (852:447 turi, 23Nir) Nir).:

TBI aget lefthere 2 in lieal

this cetti tive cores look

•Sig

plotis. 17 i peesose ampete,

Fleck in bric per

telepitiones

His photo

to pan fate a come

23 No 15631

70.

comilling it rege mimalst, precede

reguert;

....

1. NO NEED SEND STAFFER WITH PHOTOS. WE HAVE ASKED NAVY FOR

PHOTOS AGAIN.

BUT MEXI CAN SEE OSWALD'S PICTURE SOONER ON THE

PRESS WIRE.

HAVE JUST RE-EMPHASIZED TO ODENVY HORS THE SENSINIVITY OF

PHOTOS YOU ARE SENDING AND ALSO RELAYED NAMES OF TRAVELERS

SITA SIMILAR NAMES. NOTE RADIO SAYS OSVALD LIVED UNDER ALIAS OF

0.*. LSE.

---

## Page 42

Cedit, t: ps

1901

clerence is made 8o our coaveraation of 22 doverios.

I sequested!

purniacion to give the Legal alache copies oi piola

¿corinia person sho is inoun to you.

Allached ase copies.of cach of the photographs we have with the

dates of-the vinits stamped on the back.

Alé p.m. Mexico time on 22 November, The Ambasador decided

taut this was important enough to have a member of the Legal Attache's

ollico take copies of thee pictures to Dallas, Texas. The Naval Ache

1o makiag a special fight from Mexico City for this purpose. The Ligal

Attaçho's olicer who is going to Dallas hás promised to mail this material

to you for me.

Copies of these.photographs are also.being. gent by pouch which will

Icave, Mexico City on the night of 22 November 1963.

g13ei34

wishes,

Win EScoti]

lettu

Come first do

to the sid, hid comment on thi

the lugal Gotiatin' office

was Eldon Russ

to repo do hair pap

19.

The decision to remat the plast gize fitte, te

EBl in Dachs had been made day the, Emalenseds

---

## Page 43

Micia its:

¡Re 7isl ango thi the platis

Le Cawild i Prestisce Mexico

Was duchi, all pertout alto

Nir

20:48 Zfine; 23. 71

Guel at thi print i, Migico Ceti stater,

photo sunt t salton were ust

Alestis.

Nexi cr slate

Fito o pesa datesi, soma?

(22:542 fin, 23Nw8863)

24.

In luss lati des stato spunteo

de net 1 a Molto riese unille

---

## Page 44

1d-0d0d

Carange:

Erragelite rechan of phistes Tall

Brente agent good pers

Gald mist.

chate se entre Pelane

Noti, ride,

---

## Page 45

and i Please I, the to tent ?.

exposed; that the platigugild

Gumala, tilsteal, lic This applid

it a certain priat even los. munice

2 done d

there's 1588031 gret

on th ease blared that home a

leasing te in bygiened. The

satand zeal, instratesing me

---

## Page 46

Ie, rngi ermonel inate e' all inrainis,

logesers, i dogico ce, ageaies- ie eisel:

Lendli, argganecat o hucdionio el 1t,

The 2E-zi Ndnneligad ll LaondsagsT-

is the smidosice ef nore pei fromisnae.

suts, próge, mitelinta esisi

M wos a esatical farlrs, for timgh,

Teat no palrt pil Guaíos soo

minde dinilabies tlregeil sor.

coxpes, repuusled harii Ait heodguasten

and big the fiald - or that it mias

mt mre aggiinel, sought by eit,

tefore th, 22 2 Nrrendlen. Aphats-

graghe of Oowald womle line abrriatd-

in a way the wese porsesion f a

crnetphysical@iridwitty.comhdust-

ts sibile avicinoiie detimiristias

---

## Page 47

of meet legan no in imperin

test peliction of it photgraph gre

I Ditches 1963, # into a carise

where batte tiday.

intimisia mccrit. Equals cere,

shand be the demoistraton 17.

the fres these this this man

nothing contasied to congpised

abraha. in abut lingered;

descended to this print in trace.

hanon uses, a derin

stilton " USS wind mude Hilt

Stalins 1ы

in sure

---

## Page 48

evidence of empires.

38. The Genesis 7 ODUM Exhubit Nol and

Сотрет в котор

7 Is FBI, Bandwiche

Alasa D. Odin, Be 23 Ninter

stained me of the sis plitos

I flowe up for Mies cit, the

previous dry I Caninet' mitter,

Morguerite Dweld. OUr himself

load trimmed the off the backgro

hiy straight cut, Mr. Dowald cist

had no recognitions of the image in

the flutigraph. Bandwell' are ilstuds

account may the found to t

---

## Page 49

34: The pit grade sons the tichlifed.

ore f thes 5 plates takes of lie

in flint of its orist Sacheming is

dogs after Oscald had lift the

city.

Kridentefisd-indinidual numbers

12 plation i

Ta 5 trun Bate

(c)

z

---

## Page 50

matil instililety rased ce dosson

1 -sna

---

## Page 51

Bitested Comesation d Clere belies

Сітертул

22 Noela, PITS. Dr 1730 Mexico i, true -

Latest meis.

resiliet:

one, two

I butt spectre igid on th scions the

Fining se magh

conversation!

allite. tension

- in surph, best ste

lay to polimin, fish:

---

## Page 52

siral, identisan rele

indian.

Cuckoo

So are She

this ten

danti justin?

Get niger devicent in Merer it,

MiRABEL HE

963 p 220,

1463). The ends:

6sl duf lans se pin

9964.

mis Namus

Enguns Vect bereg:

riches.

n 27 red 25 Sepetember, I Che Cadere

tillite funnie in

(shine rigerati met lesso

His tos most

---

## Page 53

suration

efided in ie trio auienes) i.

Pif inge

Beluin Kacers

Fias Statenens Ile

demines tlist. Lt's doucen dinage

in en resteee.

alte:cation: +4 27540729914

2 boess

Clh Suustse Azau:

Memicó raganio léca pee, e Béacea

iind lie Dsi Mosetaoo Rigeco KüvtéiEe

Вів. інвік.

Lorez fig tane nilegiundent, et

wir prostines idulifes cimno,es

dis priquse iil as inracintin

mitaisi SoriozA :

VEit. L

iestablishd, iur sentt

des iVexico

(erigurst)

Eity dusmns?

Esmahs" ftag there

27844- 254 963., VEcts po

Seufepregint.

septert

ereguna oun peorode, Te tieica

He üclit dasico cüts (ir Aeuri) un 3hior

Leta aud ieit it to tutaise

reaune thissrig, a jeercedane.

---

## Page 54

sizes to is rage,

Sacred to crite!

it that is bere ins segusted

that estate to aunt.

ival less relatio lice notorie

dealings west Canad, seeme

éater

gone case cite Somes set, in.

do ta replicato do lented eng

an a lie, en lage a lance

---

## Page 55

indicesati

fundamento quites check acetin

and in this eis, if a paliate thes Conten

their sugest that

tarefor

---

## Page 56

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 57

Fiden lie

165, 1967.

distrar

bront to senice the implicitors

matterine in63)

this couve sation deact, wiet, this minter

justin nette in duan Lund bust,

in fee un frad to ente, an armin.

jisis e us son fant, in the firs,

---

## Page 58

1o144l felia sucan duo coperto is, i

antial dri to care politime sent ele

the not but it ten trian in to caste

Injecated:

remise.

Tant this neit permit the sons to eer hange

Let, murde

pilative wiste finice

---

## Page 59

Le to midass a dash, close

T= Shirt i light smates.

H, The mout if ODUM's displig s

the photographs the rent, a spend

misin I su of thirs notes under

pira 40(1), More — was Me Morgues

Osal alligators test she hind bee

shima a pietro of her asso billie,

Jack Ruley, i day hefne he perpet, star

thee died! Again, thy Worsen Commissin

Repst

(80 364-5,367) sphering

dispross of this instrous togey

wet not to reported bea

wit not he repenter beser

and requisis no repetitis here, fo

the orry sun. Mr Balcoscot.

---

## Page 60

Were its Commissis, thirt the Ohion

Untied not Ruty, win that tes

phats lind his cropped difficuth,

пітн

Le Commissim ExhibiT 237 (su

Hemingo, vol XVI, p.638).

net effect of thee bless

developmento.

hi the openors of the cimminton wess to refor

evidence in a clari disitio

lignining with Obies, richiding

Mr Helms, it on the her to orph

that origins

- Who dessed for the

originatoo. This bromes greate

---

## Page 61

fo then selves and will the found

in the Hersnige, NO. XI pp: 448-20,

#3. Mixico City Peters sadl other; Sonin

Azung offices strong die aditied

at aginst the priblication y its pose

plaguaph in any foon the the grazens,

that the foiet t were

he enmedistes, absted t of sisters

If a nsifil and still costuming US.

inteline asation is the specation

would go doore the dision;

spots Agested cathe selings.

the to

The was apested rete the is prot

Actuas steadpatio and Mexico lite,

---

## Page 62

station for desing the sinds of

196 faid di prosticular for 23 potents

515 states 1964 wilien the Statin

the opuation.

44. he acceshing to the beat tot

Comminine request for a depritina

affirmatine

Plans isolied, I Me Roschi beg

scotsad i 25 or 1964 drives

press, niceded the following anditi;

absenation;

"The lected butti gece lying

---

## Page 63

is satire,

finds

wins t the sonates

45.

è needo A the Coroness inn

prevaides over dy to 's

statiting abligation to protest smuses

aid mistake, The t brident fish

hidinidual" serines to this day.

intified ap the is m

redible eniduse, to sobout it,

assetins made has Ms Helens in

its concluding sontence of hiss

23 June 1964, 000 And the phisti ofica

---

## Page 64

stin, did, is predicted, go down

this dision: Wettin a Sebt mich If

to partic repeathe of t Own

Exhibit 2237, minless f ls Sist

for sented space, but clind, thes

sifice mere dissato te puttin, perse

crimina sole, Thi spentino time continue

in amy cose, battin a yose it hand

He's beame aloust totill,

chan sagin that this categong of

misit better told beein

worse away by Is Sorest thin siles

---

## Page 65

INDEX OF, KONFENTE SELECTED

DOCUMENTATION PARD BEARING

ON THE " UNIDENTIFIED

PHOTO GRAPH OF The

INDiViDUAL"

1. Mexico Station telegrano: 6453

(EN -36017) 9 0itober 1963.18age

of State

Octates 1963.

→ Cagaria .

10 Octaten 1463,

22:09 Z fice, 3 page

---

## Page 66

4. Mexico Statero telegram.

6534

(In - 40357), 15 Outilin 1563. 1

dA Negusto

the Agentinent of the Nary, 23.

Octates 1963, 1pozi.

5, Musics Statoo telepan 7014

(IN- 66781), 72 November 1963

6. Privicts Dispatch Juan Murico

City, Station (HMMA = 22533),

22 November 1963. LEnctries copis

I photo of the Unidentifies Indriduce

takes 1

" page in at Outate 1963.]

7. Magico Station telegram 7019

(Th 66846) , 22 Notember 1963,

(page., 00:53

2 trans

8. Priats letter lay Chuif of Statens,

Mr. JC King,

---

## Page 67

22 Noveratere 1963.

(IN - 66896)1

pirige:

C02:44z tras

il Merito telegio -

. to Magico

statio

1963. (proge.

ii: Mexico Station teley sam,

7027 (Ii-= 67185) , 23N01963.

30:43.2 tine. l panzi.

12. Mexico Statino telegiania

7025 (In 67186, 23N001563

20:342 tune) and 7033 (Iri-

22,46 Z tus).

---

## Page 68

!!:"

for 4)

Mexico Fution legion as ?62c (In-66891),

23, Rip 1963,

02363 terre!

to Megico Statin

z3 NA16

0136 zine.

I page, ends.

Magico Statino telegane,

7027(In-67189)

23 No: 1963,

2043 =time. lage.

Mexico Pation filegina.

1663..

16:592 this.

informator I spage

Ega tegun is Maris Pao, de

#DR - 84888), 23 ND1363, 17:29= time.

l paze

Mitm 14, Ethis is Mxicus25 & 7033, orch your

15. Jier Pite team 702

i Mixie State, ta 702910-675303

---

## Page 69

17. Mexico Stateno: 7035 (Iner 69255),

23 NON1963,

2754 2 tee.

---

## Page 70

18. Misin

Station,

lums.

// Gaid 196%.

Підатия (НА МНА

1 3324, с 1369)

19 - 23.

sond

Tut Enticept 27, 28 petin

24 26

i or petrole 1 mile to

and lessing

27-29..

ladimidual sir.

---

## Page 71

31-34.

ance

218, 29 May sand Z6 forse and

, olore.

Gul, 127; l page.

36-7. Tut of affidavito by Bundesl D.

ODUM, Trie R. MALLEY Ml Re chand

Heliss. Hearnigs, 101, 81, 18.468-70.

UINCLASSIFIED

38. Reportustions f Odern Exlichit Nol

Comincian Eclit 237 (Hermijo

vol XII, 8. 638). UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 72

34. Extraits prom Warse Cosinion ei.

Report, page 364-5 did 66%, desting

UN CLASSIFIED

40: A Silentans 7 Pestenant, Dracuis

reflect, Age and Mrico Hasten

Reaction I and Handhing 2 the

Ware Consonians Pablicaton 7

the Phots of the Chinchintifiel

Intriced, Sistenter - Other 1964).

16 Man 1967, 2 pages. UNCLASSIFIED

Crepondance meth,

.19%0.

---

## Page 73

1. Corsespondance a Ah. Ball 1.

HOCH

I And 15 Notes, 1971 Band

24 all 14 Rec: 1971. Fragen. UNCLAS-

SIFIED

sus, sad sitated o

1972;

ee Tele ellie: 1988111-13

Lay the Hoorato

43: pago.

---

## Page 74

Jollyeat:

isnow delisted fian in the

7. Kinned, Grim, mistino.

The attended in in y

to aprico request of the tored W. Beloi I.

do i fillon up ti quester $3

of his letter to the Gaging 17 15 Cel

1475.

The coatte as I have alacad, thes

hive- add minues, ust midense, t

slat the worse Committee and it

stuff hat hand he for thim in 1864 gr

Tom seats of the mine ase stopilsted

istith butse at pomas of the listadi.

---

## Page 75

regists,

The dimentates do tartin

i gue inche ago.

There seemed t he no master,

reguest,

---

## Page 76

Ina:

Backes.com

OuTSpotender 1963, Fidel Costio, in

as at usual for hive; assreased at

at Bragiline fate, reception in Are

to a infine nitricin le, the

HARKERS

an Sunday, Santana p, and Was

in print strongin the county. se

Are day fontember: 999 There Car le

the Carto agencie, hund his azuement

t the intervier, their this went ayes-

entes a neve-them ordinary

actement t get a menage thenigh

register on the riend m the

---

## Page 77

# Caster's stateme

loutes sits. I

The Hither intercon

ernestt.

It set a c, a range 7 tria

politial linderbli, melt a in pritica

len Premilent Kind, milion le

fookini("... Kennes in a crete;". the

Batista if les tames... Its mist aspirtente

wis sefrents to truster Credo

rico incomplements reficance

to Sator Goldst and Calone delay

---

## Page 78

the contin" man, a monit,

mesdulater.

he New Osless, welere he Irasy

seided winted the middle of Saptentios

1967, the HaRkeR stig apened in

Its TimEs - PiCATUNE du Mandes, SrT

19, page seam made i there

estinia hendlie: "Costio Blost

Recto on Cubi: "Sags U.S. Leader

Impeted by did t Pel Lie

stry them fre red water its sucken

The Man Gole Timing, in is creccage one

---

## Page 79

on the time, ananato, ta,

Caste nitescien wers ernsichued, in

freemen, up ten to or in decling.

with the the wisen Corners and

it stoff,

$ s477, states rept fore

apecificach dieted t attentio

win shots ofte it

it te an the assumpter

(

thens as on

I avid no rese Be

te a fetch due tree form

The read the factor Carto wearison,

and threst a repostes alime.

---

## Page 80

The wealt if the revie-animattibly

quility of hind titt, may te

dipulates mi summar, Kidete

The is no micrement of tridence:

tie to what was cheched aind

considered ta, the warser Casinosann

Toget

A The Commin

fishing a tin T t men th

LED ming the hel

7. JFK mind appi Tippedie

We them in alone, must stard.

'reside cuide" that unes set?

significate

as prodify their judge de (al dia)

mat west in lot hunt, to lei

i care de

It and midins cried

---

## Page 81

stig

as a belief.

tas the wars anded a that Mis

wants of all ope

ten stratured intestes an

with Sariet Uni

2 and hi

---

## Page 82

of their kind and theat miced won thes

openin at this circling Canel, portico.

Carl; in tes Committer intelligene

conjinent in 1964.

miner

On bur f additil credite

i restini, in the light ot

this

These sis,

timent ge potental rigine

---

## Page 83

re, editerration wert, fidel Costio

in ita

Estin BitementE 16 Al Proprien

sorten-me pesto of the votere.

vispostiti ind ma do ciclanc

altoatt retro for

ancent the Entre anzie,

dosing the Sonce 7.1963,

---

## Page 84

which transt it gone the intumeir

its remifice. The understan fat

ded A revisite (Sat 9, p. t-7) which,

similarly, smitted amy refrie to the

rain tent a Cite de The

Ermin stee prites the backen stand

near, in it intuits tant toret it

in the scenter section 1 Toge

(9 5071969, Rage B-4). Bent residues

the content of the tasker inter wier;

plorin; the emplois of Thi As political

aspect-ni pastiader highting the 602-

with ilment bat and tunging

the Castes explint the wring to us.

landaship in the midll, TeT? 12

thes prece..

suing tre

There is no michence in the file, The

---

## Page 85

with is idst its fun diedy:

Виістих,

the +9 151710

Arden lonel apter the say of lege

fritise.

150702

---

## Page 86

Éieitereno,

Kene (ontent wilt, Orned , Punto Lua Lolfporio, 2

14192 5 2e testamrig 1) Nedem DEuLiDo erniorr,as

Eega fectin o gunied riguifiemia e an,

nemeir te lrchsprnul of CHU'S feching

tie athere id Canti luh tl fes in

blelgado was probat, the cleent ren-frag

prierabi. 5900r6161 dering apereäfit trann,

jinid at El Toro Maccio Cospe tene ai 4457

ier 5t-tgit: 1259. The Warzia Comminisin, fiint

fules not ofthis:

"Oswnold tres Delgido tit te.

vn si trade crect, ceclm digtonata

ficat in ther camnitig; clice Wilged

at fint took it be

lisé, hnt dati tehereg ' fi ses.

Snhrot, 2 mustet fre tin n5

(Wh. 1964), 8. 687; Hore afts citid os,

Resmit.

---

## Page 87

thin is reflected big the dang rage of the, egor?

and bes me? a an if love licen time don

with the like a start with, i

question ourse.

Elenael, and liegedo at Chi Mutset, were

Kitte insti supportion, lists inevig postor.

tand, lin chat lion to get the a shelçado

testified:

bin Henn con I get in Ench

been Chin

wait a latin

to were i friend, times such,

---

## Page 88

at 12-8

"Altu a stil, le told me bee was ain

"... l eun this envelopen in his footbade,

and ith us aligned?

pot allie.

IT us a mean.

---

## Page 89

Pello wise that he pilled to?

"Me degusta, No. No....

Emaniate ?

cano fone temi te la meccano a cacha

costang.

competen

illerigh,

'no, lut it ceronta diese.

---

## Page 90

14-00000

second?

ter thee thing

"he delgado, Well 1 tire it for gusted itsel

different color me it, red and cult; smart

in. Lates,

The hicketer

much intites egos trea

sid at to see that degen, you.

Me luckle i bet in eat his ens.

---

## Page 91

gang 16-1002

" =

(thone 904) 161,51: 241-0243,

Kreatt, cated is,

file.

walden, state land"s date inte 1955,

153424524

Eperma t

i Sailand ne 15

Gitales 6759.

te!

es si beste ingentine 5

Aushin.

i the mit histor

woh, eischen

---

## Page 92

1d-0d0d

-teses tra

a aliana)

12. s.

---

## Page 93

(7)

iell-icp.iia

satirel posacesled lo Vgir du ii faneragisty

a degplicate erauy of on tde degto y a

penetaatin, bitabr dotes 5 grunag 19620

dssiching svent ot thi your it'eell

muitungo Tic cell -teads, Aores VENnEZ

Zabrta titthl dat swide dit Ih.

imumat ts5 ii bruateneh s toutd

Jooun a suigh ner fast; "We neas

net fiesceupy ausedrin ore te politio

il punitus Kenneds lecrne ine tnns,

nccoding ti perrzursiatios, tiss te wis

te eritino tta preseat gexeo, 1920?

Ric egent aggasen , leod hem tistnted

S te tl frtos buter it lend hem recevier

and coei mst fonwanded matif ll, sttens

5pt,, te

s sraied cl ep it stuias) de somplinies

---

## Page 94

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 95

14-00000

in ite Mazuee

đt 1ie5.

I sease 2,

some, reportin, afte, the tenued, anciation,

indicates it at do Preet regen on 7 Nir

Pained the sir' let sorique

waite on Cake and them, mplications

wits a host entity deptrust, cruditing.

well, the fit admiration:'"... jais

what and your wit see what we can

he mr specifier nt st wanes

wait, just wint,"

(There das were pissed t de Warrens

bouts wes eds gee, reported to have a

---

## Page 96

• 1,

-a:"

'= à r5.

''''artea;

densea imminin de viter:

d, échon ignement ten une insigne

5. Lu, Remet n. 30544.

piniers, le 3si in de 15 mane di ita

Nicaragon todd addition le 1353- le

NOTAS villeneut 3 tu seinerie tou -

---

## Page 97

'ira fisico,

Roy Dobkin

Re abradado con in temati

6. Sue, REPORT, A8. 307-308.

la idente fine as Clowold, verie mines

ametra in mid-Septantes 1563 in ad

prca opito Catar consulato in Merico U5.

cimenti tene eterne contri

Altra decistan, ni t, benzin

---

## Page 98

14-0000

serice conted at do core: Gate th

tare alienato stay pasticlins,

acute representatin o the difficulties

then beat the snalisten of obesved

endue Enter cite tea

ate sting pusist alkapite the ingrad.

went 7 it major premises..

eric ALrAR700 ta whose acount

did mat termite fablic until

the publicatins 7 the Warren Reprit

in tales 1979 tallen investeng

If the presences in the train actin, E

a Negso wint red-dyed have.

Cena Gario de la

it late and an is prin reta.

---

## Page 99

woried, hid cspacated, fooe a lugte ront;

Meuicni forcigi senice esficeal Ie is, alss,

ds eran y Aeracio Dusau, the Rehuhane

1 Silia sisa, dasAi Madrin

Zutir abore.

stons pusmnal antipatty, bitiei.

the tare sesmen brigia descsnding for

Elema Garsos trenchant neti cimmicsioni.

BiLiS TA N dtãl raficamia t

Fron Ritabc 1464 until tãi reticiio

in the face 967 the 3 a sA, itien,

chanle Thonss 'Peeept up a regorstars

stream. oy reposto and aiennsanda

repect, 61RRDS aecsmet y what

1463, At stiking including refe

psated oefereuai ti a Negzo with,

---

## Page 100

The first regrenes I the 67rk0

May is Stalin

stry stents a mater a

1 at 1964:

---

## Page 101

GARRo equate les sting to Me.

d Likeng

Bitice

astic code 19650 la Saptis63

a pars, at the hine 7 Rile bes

Felines added. Ruben i tre of the tro

his consis. The wit Ostrild and 2

octer young fusic, at the pasty

she wons di conned from ta

wits this. Ottis guest were the labor

Silvia QURA, cho she later basa,

two ticon

---

## Page 102

daughes wait to the late Enti ind

shots "anoin" and attu disils

ot its stay there shotty aft, mad,

tune L, E CHEVERA], and more

tild he lind ordine t locht

then t a suall and obs cuse luit

ture fir 8 long conder pictust

this they were in ding Whee

she told the

On A 25 de 1565 am 9 fan 1566 in

---

## Page 103

serificanses

cutan porticulo, nittified , her

intract the ato almonte t

that she she he blastes lind

osfice to atonio de she stanis

ting dit not use a very completh

sting decan I the being officen

did wit assert sies, mish

redence t anything they smid.

aid drights to lin Enter niemies lig

Its hegal attrade me 17 and 24

Noreatin 1964 Here informerten had

hea civilan to what the clane;

in her account $ Thron, Lit lad

mother substantiated by quiet.

The 781 recitation thin fre earr

sidied tis matt, closed and raff?

---

## Page 104

At (1A chit i7 fits an 20 de 1965

mad to its Cambrate 1 28721 365.

Rade, pill de appi, penta

in tis interacen and repenting. tinenrann

denia openint, 13 il, 466, i slice,

had been toes by CALVILLO, as the thes

Verment (The detail clichel inst

affinitine Gains won at thee

Hest f2 23-24; 25-27; aul 28-70

Nosest, 1963: )

Gustes in 77161467

rimbich Conso: contamins viciniteds

wats the labores are set and the hand

finess.

le, there retirement fire

the seant.

---

## Page 105

Clean

This de with, wit. Ropesine

Forgin

Gero's chinest tent de

in a Mile can on timing occur

Em Septents 1963 sin dist nece

incided wat the befri

dats of the Oswell, presence these

'acreatos alligatio

regarding the Negut want the Red-died

glared for the Were Comeriner

wont of the " tie tend te

Sylvia term's et attent I intere

it it pumudd contrets with fall.

---

## Page 106

and agilities M7

contacts to hint ant ten is

te line intention Quald i at Do

linesset if Magico Congers in Site te

1863,

He studend bain at de; Kind. t

пі- та зи все

i assuinte

he san

---

## Page 107

mintens

at this print,

the mattes wis turned sel

#the Mycan autorite colo detrammi, this.

Contiers in wided at the Cusesset, 7

try mie has bis is fact, years

1959 and 6960. in that te bad

---

## Page 108

middles

as acide in the 1462 are lacte Gratess an

ned one it leader y Etron

No fritter mind mate is selected in the

file in the Contrison allegatin. B Grant

fion the insistened elaines wind

ly Conteros abnt his are prince at

the christ, this is the additions

---

## Page 109

22 Noverole 1463.

praga.

002:442 trins

i Mica stati tolgono -

10. ClA Des telagen to Mesico

statin,

Mesico Station teley sam, in s

PoRT (In-67184),25051963.

20:43 2 tune : l pange.

12. Mesico Statero telegrana

23,46. 2 tris).

si fra

---

## Page 110

+>

,1p...

device fition eligera a, 7086 (In-61591).

238. pra 19963, 133l = tense!

to Megico Stater

03-24221 and 019427, 3 45 1905.

I page, eat.

Mrica Intero tea, 707102

7027(In = 67189),

23 Nor 1963,

Main Piss 2 file 7o0g somet

13.

EDR - 84888), 23 N163, 17:292 time.

l paze

40. 2: 4.

Dli....ad.

Mtem17. EThis is Mxicu625 4 7033, shich you

already, bage.?.

15. pities Pates telen

1146789))

T6. Mexic State telegen

70294, 183N21963,

---

## Page 111

17. Hepico Statero 7635 (Ir 69255),

23Now1963, 27542 this.

---

## Page 112

ta-itetded

1l Gzaail 1964.

dispsatche (17MMA

init 33304, el 1567)

19-23.

Text

Eetecyit 27,28 bestinle

24-26.

Iivr plaat goaphe, f Unidentife

2- 2idividunl

ladinidunl

hies C5, pplem

30.

buchoaay,

Tifgre

---

## Page 113

35. better, bag. BE

fal, 124, ' pogs.

36-7. Tupts of affidavite by Bandance D.

ODUM, Urue Ra MALLEY ANd R, chard

Helms, Hearsigs: 1+1111-88-468-70.

UINCLASSIFIED

38. Repastestinis f Oden Extibit Nol

Mate (Hearis, val XX, 691) und

Comician Elitt 237 (Harigo

val XvI

vol XVI, 8. p.638). UNCLASSIFIED

18.84

---

## Page 114

39. Extrasts foon Warsan Commsancri

leport, p8g= 364-5 aid 667, dedling

ith de plitisane sste bitentofuis

UNCLASSIFIED

.. (ciorsofiad)

40. A Seleatons f Pertinant, Dresimats

refletio, tg and Meico Hition

Reactinn o annd Haurdhing 2 thsi

Warsen Conciriania, Pablicatin 7

the Thate of the Chichintifel

hunhäicleind, Sistrnaber - Otthe 1964

1. Letti ly C1A Geueral Cemade, benirence

R. Horeston to Ih doreprable Bewaad I.

Breste a cite tit l e inn,

I6 slag 1967. 2 pagen.

UNCLASSIFIED

p. Cmnitais oute, erg L. Senoe

unieaif1a20.

---

## Page 115

14-00000

83. Grisapore dance sis, Me. Paul L.

I And 15N0sdoode 1971 pool

at part

SIFIED

Bernand Feaster could fo. Boodl22

1972;

ayal 1972; 26 and 29 fune 19122

288g

43: pages.

milita

---

## Page 116

ite/ 69000

Lee Hang Fontand Bil

7. Kennedy Cares, did on.

The attended, in mite i

It express request of thi does w. Balmin

as i fillow up ti quester 73

1475..

tin- add muaves, nat micene, t

What the warn Committe and it

stiff had taid defore them in 1sht yor

The secuto of the revier me stpalated

---

## Page 117

1d-0d0d

IatiT.

-fit.

stot it iia

-pret decoumentatiis diilrtiste

Zhi duk-sonleaif -

Pai; in

smen t t narn tui ta

• Unidsutehet-bndhnidun, snkmnctes

fur.wetiogo.=;

There deeousd to le ns nasmit

trch itts angines op tte Et sugunt

requat,

---

## Page 118

1d-0d0d

5.:

• Bactegiana

I felone day entering,

: Du/Spatender 1967, tilal Costio, in

are at cresual for him, ingreased at

at Brazilians Earley reception in Arms,

Eam urse mural Castro seldmittio

to a informal refrican be, the

torrested bugs espredit Amish

HARKERS.

an Surely, Sentine f, and wha

in prit strangeon the crouty re

Meday Saptember 999 There Cari lie

the Carter area, his li agrienn

I the internee, thess this eveat Ages.

aceupt t get a mirage tinigt

titan on the reard ni de

---

## Page 119

1 Casteo's statuins

Vaute: Stits. -

Thi ditai hee titerrionne

ermerstet

Zut tent a epat, a rauge tpis

dentai, (wwitt, te

=ammicam

prlitial tinterthis, mett im in prtise.

mn Prsicent Kuncedy onlern le

acoriates in istraordenasi, proicatios

frotini("... Kenised, is a eet

Batista of lis tumes... Its mest sspintente

eines breiient f all fais.")., Pher

ime aeprences to tuuator Grll

H the wites nier trad ode sontutie

sichoo rucomeplementes, reficance

Io Suunter Golhuat, panid Citnin delay

Us menspapie, it Niid Zork

Feel:

wastinstr, e ure thes with a ruet

---

## Page 120

the entr' no, to gies.

mesdulated.

In New Orland, where tie roey

recided inted the middle of Saplentes

1163, the Harker sting appeared in

the principal meting her,

9, page dean wed d there

luna tendia: "Costro Blests

Recto on Cuba. Says U.S. Loader

stay the fre owed wander its thacker

bey-louis:

The Men Yode Tinis, in it coperage an

---

## Page 121

The roll if the neer-dentistis

lebury stilles 322630-20

qualitig of hind tyit-many tie.

stepulated mi summar cadete

@Ture is no micrement

intelligence in sent, siece nineteement

sie to what was died i in th

considered la, the warsere Casinoson

A The Commi

2JFK und offen Tippett and dide

ud of his dare determialis

- them in aloone, must stared.

@ 'cerite cider" that women fat.

significant

as priodify this judge det (med dra)

mat wist in lotus to talios

incora

It aude widens chill

---

## Page 122

14-00000

of this baad and theat wiied was its

Carly ins ito, Coconate, take li game

conginent in, 1964.

I maturdy, with light poe

dio con deterie

event,

sitat restinion pieter me

---

## Page 123

14-00000

a..uí.

fic.

in's tires

trianita li file

(Grin list.

cryodence in El Toro, Calfansi.

After eter

Me even Steenset, senses

any for burde

mission.105 mediatessiveritem

altonade, eton tor

were draig losing the Soones 171963,

---

## Page 124

14-00000

o 60-86-89-43

minico,"

''elens

ideele

fochise..

i...

in arrandi .

ata mia's

-12.

---

## Page 125

1d-0d0d

'is of an era,

Eja section of gasma signifine t any

Belgado us prohan the else le go in

pund at El Toro Marie Enqo lane is 145)

Ree 58-1347 1259. The Were Eminine, fint

filer not ofthis.

is a trade cret, decle diplomati

at fist took it the

hiss, hut later helens!

Reunit.

---

## Page 126

14-00001

lulcao gijdn doendig dldetilee denern adddiead

a-cetjeidente de alceddigutee tisgiein émer

ded, nno luprer eelent io dccainen berii.

l Fuld tas is dee trens.

"Ciste, a ereid, le täcd nece dee wern ein

erritrnt codé, trem....

vet se det zialol

.. Le lane oue nister ; aplauufr

---

## Page 127

14-00000

tie pries

:*

'oncealed deliride

"'de negrado, trait one lame anni loll, 2

llow sens theat he filled i?

4 table "hit gon

Emançate ?

tuna son in

incal

because münse iit-.

i used tet lie, a tu, and

even do often, 'fite he state pi

intret wet there Calm pinto Liste,

and be do, strated inscen

iters, you two, and liver

mergles gonget, over.

Lili,

wige the but tones slower, yet,

---

## Page 128

"'atee de, didor dlug mscled dle dpernnerdi, a

'dlideug gado .d, a.

deread?

le éseigadi.

di tloid ooue dseadtir""

"'e bubile, i bef your dnnee jemg derin, io lieieir

üht'lem thüng droone nt ierala, dunn'r

Cellono ancandati?

"He stelgado, Well I tire it lon gunutih it- tly

ii Latin,

id,thaT.l

"Hhe hueluter

itiray. Yots eitn en pre e ehite

"Ma lelgade, Ns. But la hiril tilt nuce prirs,

Tst bei crclelita erel, onrs

wi,hhat le conseecnia

aed. ae itae itee

msl pantr aeda, te,

hul ntieea to do ,

iluepuse if thi Ealysite.

cudp iler

did oh t aee thitiye degein, you.

wowr

"Ne lwekele. Beg lu tiel.

,lagrisesttiei

was aleat?

aMil, th, detea cet lis cos

*'Belçasdo o Atoi lu dedat.

---

## Page 129

14-00000

that it inned in alinerin

wiling

arrection setin,

Besident Kennes((156 304) 1d. Ti 241-248.

treat, cited is, HEARd 27199 t

and he we promise tipe in tiffin, lin is.

Ectate, 175%.

were ange

einsteit

ep contacted i di let el tero emmy and

---

## Page 130

14-00000

4762021212

inopirmitr

fabri i esple specting feren

Cale -1996e

Chal 4s-19

---

## Page 131

lag.

sein essende sense i astendo

staunenden s

penetaling stab Lotte 5 Grung 19620

meting. Tie cell-leake, Mores NrEs

and son ant fanden il le sites

- seried il Mit.

plinics

---

## Page 132

pole A dang scist

at won: # + 8-218-8-906-01

singinine i ta eit

---

## Page 133

1765..

jacopie cinisch

serene, repartito all, de innes, desinaton,

1963,

Praticande le sici?) siete conigue

maide me lacla and ilia, igilicatene.

messe di fitta alertin: "... jor

whit and you witt see salet we can

do, Strees tuppen sama." Golert

lingua sono tusti replici fu es

Citatisidi

(There do inere possed E de Classon

Iratis wes ros un report ti se

---

## Page 134

14-00000

in sii ton,

ecaciáni idodles ipis t atil pdsa deeoe ode

pirn dt, rguee

Rits tizladls

ése cissmnes redlistir soiioot,

ії Eunl 1966! ;

.. .

22 300d4e 44

TE. Sri

---

## Page 135

mr risis:

Unlean

.-

indee did less!

1:40002

i16s). The ingening fall laid and met fune

, it lastis mescare) misle

a die natured, aches arudid

It's die dinar

his then Causes, tent

vialisti, presume in inceto

scist, inno she and pilot see,

ladies tonguete a luig,

Fernan

---

## Page 136

14-00000

ii " persona.

in ie, delle critioni don änfelente west,

Fur. 1964

Lorey fuy

ti si idolaid per, is.

ni linten

no Ngico

Louurst.

42424

27544- 254363, Kale ininpes

ect this ad intridendo nie

lein, silenti mi dire

in a geni

"se en tente liar

workuid,

Jixs.5

---

## Page 137

paye.

il il de me in infested.

dentinge dire met de ente

jerembeles

, que de réiedi muade et aiot...!

1.

---

## Page 138

infrasain.

daired aladied des doron indienste,

that in, sie ti mattel thint

the repl, in wed ts iller stern dieded negation

und in there es, it is palgerble tes Entens

ni de, baron blas stetement Pode ten

thes auggist the ?

Goning code t, d beginnig

inia

es wie dune tes inferigin Mine

---

## Page 139

14-00000

maniel nuale solid ole daid del blocciaides

mila die..

•.

---

## Page 140

14-00000

isoceea

:...

f'sie

$80

tiia. i

Hee ineatt

im iefrte-.

meewede id ininnsegoe

diceaás

i'u diccéa énono inémorun duan,

Peean iseee guten.

Nom. ilu dil crita" issitciinn ii seaecld

irisdprémant do dcemcine it, iinpeticnttons

an 2 ti Cnterceptis tile in, esioes.

¡iticen tãe tu Culn dnnidoet, iduetiios

ama ta cand na da dn iiir , fongeii

itemau.dez truns 'u.came l'e licent 7

In ctrue soto cleal! with the mete t.

jentin néécictoe don djucea lurd eugite

iea sen fraas éa madie, am, aemci.

iszing atret eeneig prandait den Bfice

ilecicon iitiiragates.. )

derp E, tnbi i doie le o tosi

jrois ey lus blollan dentnn, 'st.

in tho ferna,

1.

---

## Page 141

dio #e300080 0010

Lidariteri che

te not he ed e ile in wiste?

ieria, ne the ed, litari tit

Gist dis ni pernit in store ti heallunge

ven 45391

rome le anni, ti di in ilia, io

it, mod et

'flaminia ale microle ilejonl

citatie viriali fisires

-57

---

## Page 142

14-00000

6......

18 150"

....

in às Mf.

ijege ioni i;,

iifo.

iidieriaid ei

tghn c

-.ie too:

tesee inmmiini iieulet i'e

dezeo ell iatão dia crnageinítiio

• contüc lüünèe Eremalde dond dgent t

I, écdon légumue in ine iesiiten

in ande. if

5. Lu, Resni p. Su544.

- Arse.i.

ditiand , sintani in iiuieo tet atiçini,

Tmcere tlter donts nisdecsl bitreseuned.

1836

i-mea.iras, in ige.addtirndtion

prrnter's, dle isi in da il -nua, ita

ideio i's iintsi

Minerfluan aveli, intee no-ileis

i LritiAp)s ilgarti"

NoTes tillennGut ia tiu toe

"'luzes

siu -

Klo Eerugtin, ins liee joe !tt

tlie

') fiet éxiniacis.

ALLeni

---

## Page 143

Carice end incit and

he site!

de died cod diese dee dogerig

To suit li darenird cone. A?

218.

---

## Page 144

1d-0d0d

harren Commission Repare: A fareial

chrono lodgal survey

REFERENCE: Memorandum dy David#. Belin to ya. E. Harry Knoche!

15 April 1975 (Attachment A)

1. Referenco memorandum suggests it would be appropriate

to reconsider full disclesure at this time of the circumstances

and factual datà relative to the Subjeut. The purpose of this

survey is to permit a realistic evaluation of the suggestion.

2.

Background. This evamination and summary. of the record

concerns a cropped photoyraph considered by the President's

Commission on the Assassination of President Kennudy (hereinafter

cited as the Warren Commission) and introducet into evidence as

Gaur Exhibit No. 1.I The photograph (together barate

wean, with others of the same individuall originated from a fles

stelligentis

amorite, highly sensitive operation being conducted in October

1963 by the CIA

against the

Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico City.

3. Under

the terrotes the extracdinary efforty to develop

inforation on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the

1 See Hearings Before the President's Commission on the Assassina-

tion of President Kennesy (hereinate=

cited as Hearings), Vol. XX.

page 691.

---

## Page 145

DEART

photograph were mado available by CIA's Moxico Station Chiet on

the afternoon of zair do the decent presentative, and

later that day, on tro

of the Ambassador, copies

were hated be a Naval Attache ang conveyed by catarDI

representatave to the Dallas office actino ot possibio

in the ongoing investigation. Of photographanas shown to

Mrs. Marguerite OswAlD, in Dallas on the evening of 23 November 1963

by FBI Agent DiAilwell D. ODUM:

4. The Warren Commission's Report describes the sequence of

events at pp.364-365 and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately

resulted in Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's allegation that she had been

shown& cropped photo.of. Jack- RuBy, the day before he murdered her

soR.. (A further complication leading to this conclusion mis

the fact that when she had been shown a copy of the same photo-

graph in her appearance before the Commission, it had been cropped

in Wondrong to

by the FBI in a slightly different manncr.)

S. No dotallf in the Warren Commission report illustrates

more vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple

truth in the politicized, rigialy determined interpretive climate

about the kenned

nat has been nurtured by the media over che past decade?

photograph, (now acknowledged not to be RUBY, has,

become a

Cantuared 7

2

"Specialito" aus

Leas soon

---

## Page 146

D

have been

"framed" by the use

2

Mexico City.

of a double in his activity in

6. Leo Harvey OSWALD - Réportingl

Mexico city stay. Although

in no way related to Lee Harvey OShALD or his stay in Mexiço Clty

sipt

from the morning of 27 May 1963 to the morning of 2 October 1963, af

the photograpis of the unidentified man originated during OSHALD's

stay there. a It is thorefore important) to an understanding of

handle

ti can ten mc logan 1y he Mexico city station to

review the

pertaint what the Station ascertained and did with de

information it developed about OSWALD in Mexico City, tögether

with Headquarters action on thef information, bett

1962 27d

7. From all credibleevidence known to this time (none,

incidentally, added

since the exhaustively unique work of the

Warren Conmission), Ice Harvey OSWALD spent 4 full days and

2

partial days--about 116 hours in all--in Mexico City from

about 10:00 a.m. 27 September 1963 to about 8:50 a.m. 2 October

1963. His porkt of residence was

a small commercial traveler

hotel, not frequented by "gringos"--the Hotel. Commereio

2 This is the thrust of the article

"The CIA and the Man Who

Has Not Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald

and George O'Toole in

the. New York Review of Books, a copy of which is attached to

reference (Attachment A)..

3

---

## Page 147

LEAST

where he was registered under alias. xhaustive and detailed

interviews ind interrogation by the Mexican authoritics and the

•established that in the recollection of all hosel personnel

he left early and returned late each day of his stay..

8. Assuming, and allowing for the fact of late arrival and

carly departure, that he slept one third of the time of his stay.

(38 or 39 hours)', there remain some 78 hours of activity to be

accounted for: Overall, MeDiCIn's

28 September and 1 October.

All'coverage by CIA during the entire period was technical. • The

Station had no llve source (living agent) coverage either

OSWALD Viar

was in no sense "under investi-

gation."

None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR

and return to the U.S., 1959 = 1962, were me

buse tarns of his bangor

Station files before 10 October. 1953, when the informetin was

cathed

forwarded by Headquarters in response to

Station report of

artist too

a octobex forwarach on a routino kals, what in Co be an

(ung Anerican contact for a visa to cuna in transit to the USSRo this lunal

indicated and deduced from technically acquired irfornation on

1 October, which was the first and orly occasion in which small

(partialles)

identified himself by true name.

At no time during his stay in

Mexico City did the CIA Molly dequire a photo of him..

---

## Page 148

PEARE

ADd caroful roview of all coverage, voice intercept, as. well

as photographic, of both the soviet and Cuban Embassies was mine er

by the station on 22 and

23 November 1963 after the assassina-

tion, going back to materials: from mid-ycar. It is, therefore,

firm that there was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any time

it to meter call

or stay in Mexico. City, • Moreover,

request on 15 October, the Mexico Station had no photo of

oshald in its rocords, nor did it receive one from Headquarters

despite

before 22 November 1963.

Paring This instis air a

10. Voice Intercept

mind sitter, pit

by the monitor on the

basis of the 1 october intercept which. had been reported to

Headquarters and disseminated..to the Interested. members.of the,

intélligence community (as an e%-Marine, OSWALD was a Navy and FBI

case under the delimitations, and potentially of intercst to the

Department of State) -tumed up matches based on content, not ar

-antom@@t idestity, with materials intercepted on 27 and 28

The nantain we reportes to /top. on 23 North 63, Pudges

september 1963.

could be recalled by the monitor-and this was not insignificant domat

morals

because of the uniquely poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not

be made because the tapes, in

accordance with the normal

practice,

÷ :

had been erased

and re-used s

5

---

## Page 149

FLARE

i see encha vose intoreept and photographic.

coverage was not processed in "real time." The nattle

it Sequisi-

tion and the volume of the information precluded anything but the

pe reporting of ime Judged by the monor of morettiana

ordinary liv

interest and, therefore, noted in summary

"of the tape and either a full transcription or full translation

or both. Photo coverage tended to become available in quantity

lots which required scanning and selection on a rapid and

in era ra dry picto

accellorated basis

One of the "triggers" that normally operated

to focus and acceberate herspit deview

and.reporting.of this kind

raw. intelligence ya the mention of a name. This areite seco

was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversations

stinto sion 1 October with the soviet Embassy, Aun

ha (said

he was "Lee OSwAlD," andlit was this information reported by

in its frist sedicato in Chuck

the

station to Headquarters) on 8 October 1963.

819 artili

13. The Mexico City Station did one more thing in its report

on Lee OSWALD based on its 1 October voice

intercepts: it coupled

thile data with descriptive information it had acquired from a

collateral sensitive

source-a photograph of a male individual.

apparently an American, who was observed entering the Soviet

this

Embassy on 1 October. The Station reported

these detaild as a

6

---

## Page 150

DRAFT

iceite if

¿coincident

The station did not assert or suggest that the

uatà sances ma the bhoto was in fact ossillo, ae indeed, in any

way related to OSWALD.

13. Lee Harvey OSKALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay:

one additional element of background must be stipulated now as the

final precondition to understanding the relevance/or irrelevance) of

the photo of the unknown individual/ placed in the chain of

evidence on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Agent Edwell ODUM:

what was the totality of CIA Midatept coverage of OSWALD's

activity as of the arternoon of the okand 23rd when all available

coverage had been rechecfed?

14. The totality of Nexico City Station coverage on, or

reasonably inferable to be OSWALD, cunsisted of five (5) voice

intercepts as follows:

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 Mexico City time.

silvia DURAla,a local employee

eE Merican national ee the

Cuban Embassy, lonsular section, a receptionist, speaks with

an unknown male at the Soviet Embassy: Silvia DURAN tells

the man that the American citizen was there, the one who

wants a risa for Cuba on his

way to the soviet Union, and he

wants

to knch with whon he

talking there because

Disper

(Silvia)

had sent hin to the Soviet Embassy saying that if

---

## Page 151

1d-0d0

PRACT

they accupted him and yare him a visa, the the Cubans (Embassy?

would also give him a visa without further paper work, only

advising ringration in cubai, te is to not vig hon họ

had talked there because he says he was told there would be no

problem.

The man in the Soviet Embassy says to wait a moment.

Sniell

Veron

A different tan speaks, and Silvia

explains the same thing to

him. This man says to leavename and telephone number and says

he wall call back salvia vas the kelophone 22-28-47 subar

consulate) are do cakes silvanzago of eno conversition

and

states she

has moved and wants to advise the Soviet Embassy

of her change of address so that she can receive the

Embassys Búlletin. The man says to call KOUKHARENKO

to give her

new address, then he asks the name of the Consul

or Cultural Attaché. Silvia says the name is Teresa PROENZA

and

the telephone number if 14-13-26. The man says thanks.

b. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 16:26 Mexico City time.

An unidentified male

a Smust,

, calls the Cuban consulate, asks

Silvia DURAN if the American had been there.

Silvia DURAN

says he is there now.

The Soviet says

the American showed

papers from

the Consulate in

Washington, that he wants to go

to the Soviet Union and be there for a long time with his wife..

who is Russian, but the answer has not come from washington in

:.

8

---

## Page 152

DRAFT

respect to this problem, and according to this procedure it.

takes four or five months, but without having permissión from

the Soviet Union they shculd ask, or bitter said, they cannot

issue a visa here without asking washington. However.

according to this man, hal showed a letter indicating he was a

member. of an organization in favor of Cuba and that the Cubans

said. that they cannot issue a visa without his having a visa

fox: the soviet Union, and now he (the soviet) does now know.

what to do with him (the American), because they have to walt

for an answer from Washington.

Silvia DURAN agrees the same probiem exists with the

Cubans, that the

problem with him (the American) is that he

does not know anyone in Cuba and therefore if that is true it

will be difficulti for him to get a visa for Cuba, because he

was thinking

of processing his visa (for the Sovict Union);

because he knew it would require waiting a long time for his

visa to the Soviet Union while in Cuba, and from there go to

the Soviet Union. The Soviet said the thing

is that if his

wife right now were in Washington

she would receive her visa

right now, or permission, from the Soviet Union, to return to

her country, she is going to receive her visa in: Washington

but having this visa, she could communicate to any place this

permission, for example here or any place she could receive it

9

---

## Page 153

3 and 3,d

lisa or permission!, sut.righe now they de nöt have them.

Wearn (SiaN DURAN say's certainly and they cannot

give a letter either because they do not know if the visa will

de'approved.. The Soviet says they only?

vo visas according to

indications. Silvia DRAN says then she will put that on the

List. The soviet says he cannot give a lotter or recommenda-

cion either because he does not know him (the American) and :

asks to be excused

for bothering her.

Silvia DURAN says that

is all right and many thanks.

28 September 1963: (Saturday) , 1151 Mexico City time.

talles

Silvia DURAN calls the USSR, Embassy

and to an unidentiried

Ster

soviet i(says

that in the Cuban Embassy there is a North.

American who was at the Soviet Embassy. The Soviet says wait

a minúte. Silvia DURt! speaks English with someone--ard

comments in Spanish tisat they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99

and to take the number down Silvia DURW then says the American

citizen is going to talk with you, i.e., the Soviet. The

American first: speaks fussion and the Soviet speaks English.

They continue in English. The American talks broken Russian

and says I was in your Embassy and spoke to your consul. Just

a minute. A Soviet takes the phone and asks the American in

English what does he sant? The American saj's please speak

10

---

## Page 154

1d-0n0d

PRACT

Russian.

The soviet says what else do you want? the American

says I was just now at your imbassy and they took my address.

The Soviet says I knor that. The American, in hardly recoyniz-

able Russian, says I did not know it

then. I went to the

Cuban Embausy to ask. them for my adréss, because they have it.

the soviet says why don't you come again and leave your address

with us, it is not far from the Cuban Embassy.

The American

says I'll be there right away.

d.

1. Octobor 1963 (Tuesday) • 1031 Mexico City time.

An unknown made (american) cantm the soviet Embassy, cha

Military Attaché's number, 15-69-87, and says, to an unidentiflet

Soviet respondent: I was at your place last Saturday and.

talked

to your Consul. They said that they would send a telegram to

Washington, and I wanted to ask you if there is anything new?.

The Soviet Bays I would like to ask you to call another phone

number.

Please write it down: 15-60-55, and ask for a consul.

Thank you.

e. 1 October 1963 (Tuesday), 10:15 Mexico City time. The

same person who phoned a day or so ago and spoke in broken •

Russian speaks to

OBYEDKOV (a Soviet Embassy guard). He says:

This is Lee OSWALD speaking.

I was at your place last Saturday

and spoke to.a

consul, and they said that the would send a

11

---

## Page 155

¡relegram co bashinaton, so l minted to find out if you have

anything

now? But i des'e remember the name of that consul.

ObECKOV says: XOSTitol. He is dack (hair or skin=?).

OSKALD says yes, My nace is OShILa, OBYEDKOV says, just a

minute, I'll find out. They say that they have not received

anything yet.

OSWALD says! Have they done anything? OBYEDNOV

says:

Yes, they say that a request has been sent out, but

nothing has been received as yet., OSWAlD says, and what.

•?

OBVEDKOV hangs. up.

1. all os too stone inquins she enta pr che on.

intercepts, wers

discussed with, and camited by the warren

Commission staffer

A rosyuriers and at the monico exey scarion

---

## Page 156

iCE: 12.81

3, The warren Commission group that vinited the Mexico City Station

consisted of Mr: COLMAN, ME. SIANSON, Ail ME. HILLENS. - They

examined not only thelintercopts a through y above, but others for

the 27th and one for 3 October that Supinirmilto have relevance.

These have not been

included in this summary because thoy appear!

on review, to be excludable from the OSWALD matter on logical or

substantive grounds, or both, bearing in mind that the sovict embassy

received many calls pertaining to visa matters:

on the 27th at 1037 the Embassy recelved a call from an unknow

Individual,who said he wanted visas to go to Odessa.

Ho was told

the consul was not in and to call back at 1130.. OSWALD la known to

have arrived at the Flech, Roja bus terminal on bus 8516 at

ca. 1000 on the 27th.. It was, therefore, possible for him to have

Bit

made this call. ranting this, it"

Cans unrcasonable to belleve

the calls were OSWALD's for the following reasons:

a. The caller wanted visas, and specifically for Odessa.

OSWALD was seeking a visa and never in any sitter context dia

he specify the Black Sea port of Odessa as a destination.*

b. The call was directed to the correct Soviet consular

number: 15-60-55. On dha lift October, OSWALD first called

the wrong

number, 15-69-87 (the MA's number), and had. to

redirect his call.

to the correct number, 15-60-55. It seems

unlikely he would have made what would have been his initial

call, on Friday the 27th; to the correct number, and called

the incorrect number on 1 October.

• '

c. There is every reason to believe from the context of

paza 1s

the intercepts.

a through e above that OSWALD's first destina-

tion after arrival and check-in to his hotel, was a visit to

the Cuban Embassy.

d. The use of the Spanish language would exclude OSWALD

unless he made use of an intermediary, which

seems unlikely

fahat is known of his modus oper ands.

1 (footnote)

---

## Page 157

FOOTNOTE 3 (continuaticul

on 3 October at 1530 an individual spenking broken Spanist;

then English, called the soviet embassy and asked for o visa.

The Sovict respöndent says: Call on the other phone. The reguéstor

says: I'm looking for a visa to go to Russia. The soviet says:

Please call on the telephone of the consul, 15-60-55. The requestor

says: One moment please, I'll have to get a pencil

to write

the

number down. They issue the visa there? the soviets That depends

on your conversation.

•I don't know about this business.

please

call the office of the consul and ask your question. The requestor

asks for tho number again. The Sovict gives him the number and

talis him to ask for the Consul of tho Soviet Embassy in Mexico,

The relevance of this intercept to OSWALD is excludable on

three grounds:

a: The use of broken Spanish. OSWALD throughout used .

to Canadle

He had no competance in spanish fra

b. The substance of the request indicates a visa request

in the first stages of initiation.

OSWALD had developed his

to d point well beyond

c .

OSWALD hnd left Mexico City, basel on all the credible

evidence, the early morning of the previous day, and could

i not

have made this local call.

2 (footnote)

---

## Page 158

DRAFT

1f.

Of these itong, including the texts of thi raw

intercepts, here redy. a

discussed with, and examined by warren

Commission staffors in Headquarters

and at the Mexico City

Station during

a stay from 8 to 13 April 1964.3 (footnote is

on a separate page, but should be inserted in the final. typing

as part of the continuous text.l

1ộ. Summing up, ve can state, or reasonably infer from the

evidence, that OSWALD made the following contacts with the Cuban

and

soviet official establishments in Mexico City.

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday). After arrival and check-in•

to his hotel, OSWAlD went first to the Cuban Imbassy where he

talked with Mrg. Silvia DURAN. The time of his first Cuban.

Embassy

visit is unknown. The time of his socond Cuban Embassy

visit was about 1600 (i.e:, just before closing).

Sometime

between

the two Cuban Embassy

visits, at Mrs. DURAN's

indica

tion, he must have visited the Soviet Enhassy. We

have coverage

only on

second Cuban Embassy

visit.

We have no indication

who he

talked with at the Soviet Embassy.

photographic coverage of OSWALD's entries

into either the Cuban

or Soviet Embassies on the 27th. The lack of coverage on the

Cuban installation

is explainable: the camera, based on the

recollection of officers still in service in Headguarters, was

• 11

---

## Page 159

DRAFT

down on the 27th because of mechanical malfunetion, which was

profable,

in course of correction.

its OSWALD was missed in

his entry to

156,2714

the

Scriet installation is not jet explained.

D. 28 September 1963 (Saturday), [Note: Both!

Cuban and

Soviet Embassies were closed

to the public on saturdays.

Photographic coverage was normally suspended Sacurdays and

sundays. OSWAZD, notwithstanding the holidayschedule, went

on Saturday morning to the Soviet Embassy (his second visit)

where he spoke to a consul. He apparently. could not recall

his new

Texas address:

At ca. 1151 he went to the Cuban

Embassy--his third entry--where he had registered it in his

visa application the day previousty." He secured the

address

from Mrs.. DURAN and she. called the Soviet Consulate presumably

to permit him to give them the address over the phone.

Instead, the Soviet with whon OSWALD spoke over Mrs. DURAN'S

telephone invited OSWALD to come back in person, and he said he

would!

(presumably OSWALD' thereupon went back to the soviet

installation (his third entry) to give thon bio-reas address.

c. 29 September 1963 (Sunday). No activity registered.

•¿. 30 September 1963 (Monday). No activity registered.

(It is known

that OSKALD reserved space this date on a Mexico

City-Loredo bus, departing 2 October 1963 at 0830.)

12

---

## Page 160

DRAFT

c. 1 october 1963 (Tuesias. OSWALD made at lense tro

calls, at 1031 and 1075, to the soviet embassy. He identified

himself twice during the setend call when he talked with

OBYEDIKOV-a guard--and referred to his talk on Saturday,

i tered ence wold have been no roadon for him to go to thie.

Embassy

His case had clearly been placed at the sufferance

of the USSR Embassy in Washington. His two calls on 1 October

were concerned with whether any reply had been received from

Washington. Under these circimstances In hildstght it is

unreasonable to believe OSkALD would have gone to the Soviet

Embassy on thaT date.

I%. The camera at about mid-day registered the entry into

the Soviet Embassy of an white-shirted individual who among all

no hotographed enter apare to be the only person -a

non-tatin, and possibly an American--who entered the Soviet

installation, elateday On the chance that there could be an

association between the lute identification data derived

from the voice intercept and the descriptive data derived from

the photograph, the Station

as regionate fros

reported the two elements

in its

cable to Headquarters on:8 October.

13

---

## Page 161

14-00009

DRAFT

arentic 9 00 10l tie

The starion section wis not wusu desired die

promitive and initiatory statle of the OSwALD identification.

Many examples of a similar kind of thing, can be found in the

day-to-day record of Station/Headquarters correspondenceraud-egirf.oug

Developments from 8 October - 22 Növember 1963. Mexico

City station reported to Headquarters on 8 October (received in

Headquarters' § Cctcher) the following initial information on oswulD.

1. On 1 Oct 63,. an American male who spoke

broken Russian and said his name Lee OSWALD (phonetic),

stated he was

at Sovemb on 29 Sept when spoke with a

consul whom he believed to be Valeriy Vladimipovich

KOSTIKOV. Subject asked the Soviet guard (Ivanl

OBYEDKOV, who answered, if there anything new

regarding a telegram to washington. ODYCDKOV upon

checking

said nothing

had been received yet, but the

request had been

sent.

Mexico Station said it

2.1 had photos of a male who appeared to be

an American entering

Soviet Embassy 1216 hours,

leaving 1222 on l Oct. Apparent age 35, athletic

build, circa 6 feet, receding hairline, baiding top.

Wore khakis and sport shirt.

3.

No local dissemination was being made by

the Station.

* Cablese

has been readerco

fere, and throughout,

astants changes no

one list readle uglie, Fa mittens

wirmpfpresgoo.co

---

## Page 162

-31.

Headquarters responied 0422% time, 23 Noventur 1963,

cancellimy its immortatoly preciding request:

"1. No need send staffer with photos. he have

asked Navy for photes again, but Mexico can see OSWALD's

picture sooner on the press wire.

Have just re-emphasized to FuT lege.

the sensitivity

of photos. you are sending and also relaying names of.

travelers with similar names. Note radio says OSWALD lived

under alias of O. H. LEE."

33. On the 23rd at 17292 time, Headquarters advised

Mexico City:

"The FBI says that the

photos of the man' entering

the Soviet Embassy which Mexico Station sent- to Dallas....

nere

not of Lec OSNALD. Presume Mexico Station has

double-checked dates of these photos and is also

checking all pertinent toba

_ photos for possible shots

Of OSWALD. "

;?

34.

And at this point, 20482 time, 23 November, Mexico Sattra

City

trially

Station

agreed:

"Saw photos of Lee OSWALD on television night of

22 November and it obvious photos sent to Dallas were

not identical with Lee OSWALD held in Dallas.

Dates are

as given

on photos.

25

---

## Page 163

"Mexico station is revioring all available photos

of persons

entering Soviet and Cuban Embassies. "

35.. Two hours later (22542 time, 23 November 1963) the Station

had reported the results of its effort to review all available

coverage:

"Complete recheck of photos of all visitors to

Cuban Embassy from August through first half of

November against good press photos shows no evidence

Of OSWALD visit.

Similar

blank against all soviet

Embassy photos from 1 Septenber. Note, only visit we

know he made was to Cuban Embassy 28

September.

Saturday.

on which Embassy closca and we had not had

covcrage.

. ".

26

---

## Page 164

36.

With this conmuniortion the matter of the

"unidentified individual" reaches the end of Phase !,

the key

element of which is the conviction at first lutent, then

expressede that the photographed individual might be identical

with OSWAlD. This appling especially to the Station, though

at a certain point even Headguarters moved no rebuttal despite

the hard troth set

disparate description bi

Lit

sald wind the Unchantific;

37. This review has attempted to deal even-handedly with

all items in the case record that have a-bearing on what

happened. The operational zeal, innovativeness and the high

committment of all involved, especially in Mexico City, speaks

for Itself. Equally apparent - because of tho 20 - 20 advantage

of hindsight - is the evidence of non-performance. It was

a critical failure, for example, that no photo of OSWALD was

• made available - though it was expressly requested both at

Headquarters and by the field - or that it was not more

aggressively sought by CIA, before the twenty-second of November.

I photograph of OSWALD would have obviated - in a way the mere

possession of a correct physical evidently could not - the whole

in Mexico City

successive deterioration of what began as an impressionistic

selection of the photograph on 1 October 1963 into a cause

celebre today.

27

---

## Page 165

1d-0n0d

38.

load tell the this stroll drily that

never has there been a sause celobie with less intrinsic merit.

Equally Clear shouid be the demonstration of the facts

them

selves that there was nothing contrira; or conspired in what

happened unless late have now descended to that point in

human

values achieved under STALIN in the USSk and under HITLER

in Germany, where just à plain mistake is per se evidence of

conspiracy.

339.

The Genesis and Devolopment o= ODUL Exhibit No.

and. Commission Exhibit 237.

Special Agent of the FBI, Barabell D. ODUM, On •

23 November 1963 shored one of the six photos flown up from

Mexico City tho previous day to OSWALD's mother, Marguerite OSWALD:

ODUM himself had trimmed the off the background by straight

cuts. Mrs. OSWALD had, no iccognition of the image in the

photograph Bardwell's own detailed account may be found in

HEARINGS, op cit, Vol. 8X, p. 268

4Q.

The photograph shows the unidentified individual

in a black shirt. It was one of the fire photos taken of him

in front of the Soviet Embassy in Mevico City on 1 October 1963.

two days after OSWALD had left the cièy.

41.

At this point for the record the total available

photo coverage of the unidentified individual numbers twelve

photographs:

a. Five taken on 1 October 1963, entering

and exiting the Soriet Embassy. He is garbed in a

white shirt a light colored (khatail trousers.

---

## Page 166

t:.

the Sovict Embassy,

Ic is garhed in a dack, open, button-

down nhire andsdarkxkrausers

with a high neckline under

shirt showing

and dark trousers.

c. Two taken on 15 October 1963 in front of the

Cuban Embassy. He is wearing a dark, collarless t-shirt

or light sweater.

The negatives of all of these

are extent and are now held in

Headquarters as integral parts of the OSWALD and related file

holdings.

The result of ODUM's display of the photogräph.- to

repcat, a cropped version of one of those noted under paragraph 41b,.

above - was Mrs. Narguerite OSWALD's allegation that she had

been shown a picture of her son's killer, Jack RUBY, & day"

before he perpetuated the deed! Again the Warren Commission

Report. (pP. 364 - 365, 367) exhaustively disposes of this

ectoncous charge and requires no repetition here. A complicating

fact developed along the way was Mrs. OSWALD's (correct) obser-

vation, when she finally admitted

before the Commission that

the ODUM photograph was

not RUBY, was that the photo had been

cropped differently

• from

the one she had been shown in Dallas.

Inspector MALLEY's cropped version of the ODUM photograph

became Commission Exhibit 237 (see HEARINGS, Vol. XVI, p.

638).

43.

The net effect of the developments in the u

immi

of the Commission was

to require the admission of the cropped

photograph into evidence in a chain of depositions beginning with

29

---

## Page 167

ODUM, including the FBI Inspeccor, James 8. MALLEY do lad

trimmed the

photograph used by the Commission in washington)

and ME. HELMS, who depreed for the originator.

These docu

ments speak for themselves and will be found in the

HEARINGS, VOI. XI, pp. 168- 470.

-44. . Nexico City

station and other senior Agency officers

strongly advised against the publication of the photograph in

any. form on the grounds that the soviets would be imediately

alerted to the exifence of a useful and continuing U.S.

intelligence operation and the operation would go down the

drain. There were repeated cables exchanged

on this point

between Headquarters and Mexico City Station during

the

summer of 1964 in particular from 23 September to 15 October 1964

when the Statior had plans underway to abandon the operation.

In acceding to the Commission's request for a deposition

Mr. HELMS. then the Deputy Director Fo Plans, replied affirmatively

to MI.. RANKIN by memorandum of 23 June 1964 which including

the following additional observation:

•The Central Intelligence Agency recommends

that this photograph not be reproduced in the

Commission's

report because it would

jeopardize a most confidential and productive

operation.

In addition, it could be embarrassing

to the individual involved who as far.

as the

Agency is

aware had no connection with

30

---

## Page 168

Lee Harvey OSWALD or the

assassination of

President KENNEDY.*

46.

In this instance the needs

of the Commission prevailed

over the DCI's statutory obligation to protect sources and

methods.

The "Unidentified Individual" remains to this day

unidentified and there is no credible evidence up to this

time to rebut the assertion made by Mr. HELM's in the concluding

sentence of his memorandum. to Mr. RANKIN On June June 1964=.»

And the photo operation did, as predicted, go down the drain.

Within a week of the public appearance of the ODUM Exhibit

No. I and Commission Exhibit 237, members of the Soviet Embassy

began systematic efforts to survey

the surrounding buildings,.

ostensibly for rental space, but clearly their inquiries

were directed to spotting possible camera sites. The operation

was continued in any case. Within a year it had become almost

totally unproductive in coveraye on Americans in contact with

the Erbassy - a clear sign that this category of visitor was

being warned away the the Soviets themselves.

---

## Page 169

14-00000

PHASE THRES: #THE"UNIDENTIFIED MAN" PHOTOGRAPHS, 1964 - 1975

It as could be foreseen there has been persistent pressure by

critics of the Warren Cormission Report to exploit abe ODUN Exhibit Nol

and Commission Exhibit No. 237 for partisan interpretive purposes.

A considerable correspondence has accumulated since the end of

1964 in which the Agency has attempted to be Icsponsive to Chese

requests(sirultaneously; to satisfy what has been

me

sole interest

from the inception of the matter: to protect the method of

acquisition of the photograph and the

which made the acquisition possible.

50.

Following are highlights.from the correspondence drom

current phase:.

a.

On 16 May 1967 over the siynature of the

General Counsel of the Agency, Lawrence R. Houston, CIA voluntarily

clarao thas pale to for les

submitted

statement to Judge Bagert of the Criminal District

Court for the Parish of Orleans, State of Louisiana.,

The response

deat affirmativeiy with the contents of the subpoena that had been

delivered to the United States Marshall in the District of Columbial y

despite the fact that the subpoena could not be executed because of

the lack of

aurisdictiong it. Houston proferred an Agency behalf

categoric assurances to the cours regarding inaccurall

staterents

and inferences

made by MI. Garrison in New Orleans about the

---

## Page 170

photograph of the unidentiried iri

Tie following is guate

from kr. Houston's memorandum:

"Because of the publiciey allah has surrounded

the Orleans Pariah Grand Jury proceedings, we have

recently carried out an exhaustive search of the

files of the Central Intelligence Agency for any

picture of Lee Harvey Ostala taken in Mexico. As

a result of this search,. I can state categorically.

thät the files of this Agency do not contain, and

never have contained, any such picture of

Lée Harvey Orwald taken in lexico and that we have

no information whatsoever that any such photograph

ever existed. To the best of our knowledge and

-information, therefore, there is no such photograph.

Furthermore, the photograph which is printed in the

Warren Commission Report, Exhibit No. 237 in

Volume XVI, never contained more than one figure,

and the figure in the photoyraph depicts an indi-

vidual who, to our knowledge, has not been identified.

The

circunstyaces of the filing of thie photograph

with the Warren Commission are set forth in affidavits

pages 468 and 169 of Volume MI, Hearings Before the

President's Commission on the Assassination of

President Kennedy. Consequently, die have no record

of any photograph that answers in any way the descrip-

tion of the one we understand was requested in the

subpoena.

"I hope you will accept this information in this

form

in the spirit of cooperation in which it

is

proferred."

I The Agency has repeatedly sarviced requests about the identity

of the unknown individuald

Nr. Enory I. Srown, Jr., Rtetei, Box 82

Sgangun: Road, Farmingdale, New Jersey the last exchange of correspondence

in our record covered the period 4 - 17 Asril 1970.

---

## Page 171

ta-tandon

20.

on 10 Octuber 1963 32

diar time the wi Division'

empenine responsible tor detic acid ronor isseta.o

the Department of State, the sai, and the Navy Department by

mate tie

routine electrical transmission, the report recedvid. fron Mexico-

adoleng indoorie

station:tayothor-withypreliminary@ollateral details.drawnfron

a file review:

1.

on1 October 19es a reflable and sensitive

source in Mexico reported that an American male, who

identified himself as Lee OSHAW, contacted the Soviet

Embassy in Mexico City inquiring whether the Enbassy

had reccived any news concerning à tclegram.which had

been sent to Washington. The American was described

as approximately 35 years cid, with an athletic build,

about: six fcet tall, with a "receding" hairline.

2. It is believed that OSWALD may be identical

to Lee lienry (sic] OSkAID, born on 18 October 1939 in

New Orleans, Louisiana, a former U.S. Marine who

defected to the Soviet Urion in October 1959 and later

made arrangements through the United States Embassy in

Moscow to return to the trited States with his Russian-

born wife, Marina Nikolaevna PUSAKOVA (sicl and their

child:

3. The information in paragraph one is being •

disseminated to your representatives in Mexico City.

15

---

## Page 172

DEAFT

Any further information recoived on this subject

will be furnished you. This information is being

made available to the Ingration and Naturalization

Service.

2}. Although the reaction of the leadquarters desk was

"by the hook" and in good time, there

were a number of errors in

this advisory to the departments which, on the record wore concerned

with the OSWALD case:

a.

Harvey•

OSWALD's middle name was

"Henry". for

b. His wife's maiden name was misspelled:

"PUSAKOVA"

PRI

fOr MAUSAKOVA.

(elingh they persiat in this Headpiction

Neither of these errors are significant,. Nore important was:

As soond

Tho

. .

Paragraph 2. of the Mexico City Station's report

which had dealt with a concurrent, but separate, phenomenon,

"the description of an individual observed going into and out of

the soviet Embassy, had been locked on to lee OSWALD as an alleged

descriptive fact.

There can be no question that this misreading

of the Mexico City Station report was an

analyst's error

which escaped detection in the coordination before release:

the descriptive details attributed to OSWALD were so far off

the mark as to be irmediately recognizable as such by the

thad quarti, among when both the Nas, te

recipients

partial explanation, if not exculpation,

pluntos

16

in Oswald

---

## Page 173

se is recalled that as of that aareas did had no photograph

of iNALD to refer-to.f)

al. Confirmation of this judgmens is provided by the contents

of the cable composed by the sume andäfss und sent as of 22093 time

no tours lator) to Moxico City stats refuinsing its saetahen sole:

1. Lee askArD who called soverb. 1 oct

probably identical lee lenry faicl OSWAlD born

18 Oct 1939, New Orieans, Louisiana, former radar

operator in United

States Marines who defected

to USSR in Oct 1959. OSWALD' is sive feet ten

inches, one hundred sixty fine pounds, light

brown wavy hair, blue cyes.

2°.

On. 31 Oct 1959 he attorpted to renounce

his United States cilizenship so the United States

Emb

'in Moscow, indicating he had applied for Soviet

citizenship. On 13 Feb the Is inb Moscow

reccived

an undated letter from OSWALD justmarked Minsk on.

five Feb 1961 in which subj iniscated he desired

return of his US PpT

as wishes to return to USA

if "we could come to some agraement concerning

the dropping of any, legal prozedings against me."

On 8 July on his own initiative se appeared at the

Emb with his wife to see abou: *is return to states.

17

---

## Page 174

Mial winner wisell the mcluesday there

¿or soviet cilicenship and the his application

at that time had boon to romain in USSk and for

temporary extension of his tourist visa pending

outcome of his request. This application.

according do osinia, contained no raito sovict.

citizenship. OSWALD stated that had. been

employed since 13 Jan 1960 in Belorussian radio

and tv. factory in Minsk where worked as metal

worker in research shop. OSWALD was married on.

30 April 1961 to Marina Nikolaevna PUSAKOVA (sic)

a dental technician born 17 July 1941 USSR. No

Hidgs traces. He attempted arrange for wife to

join him in Moscow

so she could appear at Emb

for visa interview.

paragonit,

His American Her was returned

to him.

us Emb/ Moscow stated twenty months of

realities of life in Soviet Union had clearly had

maturing effect on OSWALD.

3.. Latest idgs into was an FBI report dated

May 1962

saying FBI had determined OSWALD is still

US citizen and both he and his Soviet wife have

exit permits and Dept State had given approval for

their travel with their infant child to is vote

4. ("station should pass,

into refind para one/ to the Embassy

to the FBI, the Navy, and IGNS

3 locally, The informatios

18

---

## Page 175

polin this and

with the FEI.

5.

Red id possible edentalication bets

disseminated to Ndus of FBI, State, Nary', AVD ISNS.

Pis. keep

Nags advised on any further contacts

or

positive identification of OsWALD.

È Magico Cites

• Vine Meadquarters scedbackios Oswaine entrect description

should have been sufficient, in, vicw of the incongruities with the

details deduced from the photo of the unidentified male, to keep

Git things deed not wol not thist way

these

two matters apart as investigative facts.

Nexico City

station on 15 October 1963, I any cbe asked Headquarters to

"please pouch à photo of OSWALD." Headguarters electrically

delivered to the Departient of the Navy the following messaged 2y deft

1463%

"Ice Henry (sic) OSWALD . ..

"It is requesto chal you forward to this offire as

soon as possible two copies of the most recent photo

graph you have of subject.

We will forward them to our

ropresentative in Mexico, who will attempt to determine

if the Lee OSWALD in Mexico City and subject are the

same individual."

No photo had been received by CIA by 22 November 1963.

19

---

## Page 176

0344T

26.

within its limitations and capabilitics, Mexic city

Station had done all it could to comply with Headquarters instructions:

a. Headguarters had been alerted and in turn chose

agencies with an investigative or policy interest in OStALD a am

Cimerican in the Curitis Stilais

(had been alerted, both in washington and in the field.

.b. Mexico City had no further contacts by OSWÄLD to

report because--as it ras ultimately ascertained--he had left

Mexico City on 2 October.

c.

OSWALD was not an Agency investigative responsibility,

In any case. Even with a photograph, it would have taken very

special efforts triggered by the other interested U.S. agencies

to have made a positive identification in view of OSWALD's

hotel registration under alias.

There the matter. rested until mid-day 22 November 1963.

27. The Insertion of the Photo of the Unidentified Individual

with the Chain of Presto

Evideny on 22 November 1963 the Mexico City

Station cabled Headquarters at 22292 time after learning of the

arrest of Lee H. OSWALD, age 24, possibly in connection with the

assasination, and refrenchil sea earlier message off and 15 october i di

and Headquarters' reply

of 10 October.

The station requested lay

Cadguest priority pouch/phöto OSWALD so that Station can

check all recent coverage for OSWALD.

Forwarding soonest

copies

of only visitor to

SovEmb

1 Oct who could be iden

Л

tical

with

OSWALD."

20

---

## Page 177

iD. Ian is chat. Moxico City Station had forgotten chit

according to les din comunication the unidentifiod male in the

photo was oi apparent age 35* and that the accurate description

Of OSWALD fortiried by Headquarters on the l0th precluded the

person whom they reyarded as the "only visitor to the soviet

imbassy on 1 atcher who could be identical," could indeed be.

27. The station had meanwhile begun an exhaustive and

accelerated review of all its technical and photographic intelli-

gence. A dispatch was prepared in accordance with the indication

given in the cable of 22' November, cited in paragraph 25 above.

The dispatch noted that photo coverage of the unidentified indivi-

dual had turnes up on 4 and 15 October at the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies, respectively. The text of the 22 November 1963 pouched

dispatch side mend:

"1. Attached are copies of the only photographs

obtained

on 1 October 1963, which appeared to be

an American.

This same man visited the Soviet Embassy

on 4 October 1963.

"2. Copies of these photographs were shown to the (sic)

U.S. Ambassador on 22 November 1963 and a copy of each of

the two photoyraphs was given to Chief FBI. Mexico, on that

date...o

"P.S. Photographs dated 15 October 1963 were inserted

after typing of dispatch. These were taken as (thel person

21

---

## Page 178

14-00009

PFALI

entered the Cuban Enbassy."

Attached were eight photographs:

four lofwhich two were marked

1 October on reverse) showing the individual in a white shirt and

four (unmarked on reverse)

showing

the individual in a black shirt.

It would

seem to be logical that the word "sets" was probably

omitted from paragraph two of the dispatch between the words "two"

"and "photographs."

30. That the Station was working under forced draft is cling

tuched-on a

apparent. from the text.of the dispatch, which cobtaine

a material

fact Irsbrtec as a postscript. That fact was reported simultaneously

by cable to leadquarters. at 0053% time, 23 Nevember:

"I.

Mexico Station has photos same unidentified

American type who is possibly OSWALD entering Cuban

Embassy on

15 October.

Searching for possibility

photo-documented entry Cuban Embassy other days.

02.

Also attempting establish OSWALD entry and

departure Mexico."

23N061961

Headquarters, at

01:36 2 time, asked Mexico Station

to send

staff member

with all photographs to Headguarters.on

the next

available flight.

30.

Concurrently with or before the foregoing cables to

Headquarters, the Chief of Station, Mexico City

spoke directly

by double-talk telephone with the Western kenisphere Chief of

22

---

## Page 179

14-00009

KING, and secured permisaion er aise conies of

photoyraphs ve the unidentified individual to the Legal Actache

debat league on meet is locat

and to make them known to the Ambassador

the noxt develorent-ig.

olearly reflected in a personal note by the Chief of Station to the

Wl Division Chief, mailed to the latter from Dallas, together, with

copies of the photographs, by the fai representative who delivered

them to the FBI in that city.

"22 November 1963

"Dear J.C. (KING):

"Reference is made to our conversation of 22

November

in which I requested permission to give the Legal Attache

copies of photographs.of a

certain person who is known to

yOu.

"Attached are copies of each of the photoyraphs we have

with the dates of the visits stamped on the back.

"At 6 p.m. Mexico time on 22 November, The Ambassador

decided that this was important enough to have a

member of

the Legal Attache's, office take copies of these pictures

to Dallas, Texas. The Naval Attache is making a special

flight from Mexico City for this purpose. The legal

Attache's officer who is going to Datlas has promised to

mail this material to you for me.

"Copies of these photographs are also being sent by

23

---

## Page 180

14-00009

DRAFT

pouch which will leave vexico city on the night of

22 November 1963.

"Best wishes..

"win (SCOTT)"

• According to the sidelined connientt on this letter, the Legal

Attache's officer was Eidon RUDD.

34:

The decision to semit the photographs to the fBi in

Dallas had been made by the Ambassador, according to the Chief of

station, who simultaneously with the FRI. agent's departure reported

to Headquartors by cable (0244% time, 23 November) :

"FDI agent left here 2000 local time with two copies each

of six photos of a person suspected to be OSWALD, on a

special flight for Dallas. He is carrying/envelope wies

stelinen;

one copy cach photo for airmail special

1 from Dallas to

J. C. KING at home as per telephone conversation with

SCOTT.

One copy of each of these photos

plus a copy of

each of the photos showing the sime person exiting the

Cuban Embassy

forwarded by memorandum leaving by regular

pouch tonight. In view of above does ligs still want a

staffer with additional photc(s)?"

24

---

## Page 181

be stipulated in suman:

There is no increment of credible evidence, only any this

of Soviet and or cuban political, intelligence or

in the a sini do to

security, service intolvement to what was developed

and considered by the warren Conmission and its staff.

The Commission's finding, on the basis of credible

evidencek that Lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer

of President KENNEDY and officer TIPPIT and dia

them alone and of his own determination pett stands.

b..

"credible evidence" that gould upset or

signitscantly modify this judgedid (and does).

not exist in washington. But such evidence could

exist in Noscow and/or Havana, whes voluntary inputs

to the Warren commission were minimal in quansefte

pan designed to cover up any knowledge pa

admin

of, or connection with OSWALD which might be silate

Cuban (KGB and/orDGI). connection will persist

and grow with until there has been a full

disclosure by these governments of all elements of

OSWALD's handling and stay in the Soviet Union and his

contacts in Nexico City. The Warren Commission report

snould have left a wider "window" for this contingency.

red That, indeed, was the opinion at the working level

particularly in the counterintelligence component in t, C/A

In the absence of additional or new slams a

"credible" evidence, there are "Mimede"

= in the record that emerge as noteworthy.

in the light of the other conclusions. Thee are

reviewed and summarized below, item-by-item.

1. Instiaton of the bossatan, y Resident.

Jalm 7 Kennedy Hearings Refore the Printens

the comatos a radio 14

males

---

## Page 182

d. CASTRO's warning ind threat of. y september 1963. -

if ÖSWALD did indeed read it in New Orleans - must be considered

Of OSWALD's passive/aggressive makeup and his identification with

fidel CASTRO and the Cuban revolution which is directly traceable

as far back as his Marine Corps service in El toro, california.

cario a warming and ehreit, to Ar corresondent MARVEl y 1P

respective of whether there was any formal mandatel, or even

with OswaLd by the Cuband or the

Russians - Many

singular irresponsibility

and under no circumstances excusable of

tone retorsionfor what

the Cuban emigres were doing during the sunner of 1963, wher

no a personny

---

## Page 183

Cuban Contact with Lee Harvey OSWALD, Santa And, California, early

1959(3) •

The testimony of Nelson DELGADO contains an assertion of

germinal significance to any review of the background

of

Lee Harvey OSWALD's feeling toward and relations with CASTRO's

Cuba. DELGAD was probably the closest peer group member to

OSWALD during his speciallet training period at El Toro Marine Corps

base Decembet 1958 - September 1959. The Warren Commission Report!

takes note of this:

"OSWALD told DELGADO that he was in touch

with cuban diplomatic officals in this country:

which DELGADO at first took to be

'one of his

lies. but later believed.

Actually DELGADO's testimony says a lot more of possible

operational significance than is reflected by the language of the

report and dog not appear to have been rundown or developed by.

investigation. De record of the beginning of OSWALD's relationship

with the Cubans Starts with a question mark.

I. The period was one of transition in U.S.- Cuban relations

after CASTRO's takeover.. OSWALD, and DELGADO at the outset, were

ASTRO supporters

OswalD being particularly keen about now ti

get

GET (DELGADO testified

• I didn't know what to tell him, so i

told him the best thing that I know was to get in

touch with

a Cuban Embassy, you know. But at

that

that time/I told him this - we were on friendly

teras with baba, you kaoh, so this wasn't no subl

sion or palmitent, you know. I didn't know

what to answer hill. I told him

to see them.

Report to the President's Commission on the Assassination

President John F.

Kennedy (Washington, 1964), p.

687

of

Hereafter

cited as Report.

5

---

## Page 184

"Neter a while he told me he dis

in contact

with them ...

"... I seen this envelope in his scotlocker,

wall-locker, and it was addressed to him, and they

had an official seal on it, and as far as I could

recollect that was mail from lus Angeles. and he

was telling me there was a Cuban Consul. And just

after he started receiving these letters - you see,

he would never go out, but stay neat the post

all the time

he had one visitor after he started

receiving letters he had one visitor.

It was a man.

because I got the call from the MP guard shack,

and they gave me a call that OSNaLD had a visitor

at the front gate. This man had to be a civilian;

otherwise they would have let him in.

So I had

to find somebody to relieve oswald, who was on guard.

to go down there- to visit with this fellow, and they

spent about an hour and a half, two hours talking,

•I guess, and he came back. I don't know who the man

was of what they talked about, but he looked

nonchalant about the whole. thing when he came back.

He never mentioned who he was, nothing.

"Mr. Liebeler: How long did he talk to him, do you

remember?

"Mr. Delgado: About an hour and, half, two hours ...

"Mr. Liebeler: You

never asked OSWALD who this fellow

was that he talked to?

"Mr. Delgado:

No. No...

"Mr. Liebeler: Did you connect this visit that OSWALD

had at that time with the Cuban Consulate?

"Mr. Delgado: I did ; because I thought it funny for him to

be receiving a caller at such a late date - time. Also, up to

this time he hardly ever received mail; in fact he seldom

received mail from home because I made it a policy. I used to pick up

the mail for our unit and distribute it to the guys in there, and

very seldom did I ever see one for him. But every so often.. often. fr

6

---

## Page 185

no senited to get in entait with those cubai gecole, he storted

vetting lotter pamphiess and neuspapers...

ind he also started receivin; letters, you know,

and no dested e maybe pamphlets, pou shed, little like church.

things we get from church, you snow, but at wasn't a church.

"Mr. Liobeler: Nere they written in spanish, any of them, do

jou know?

"Mr. Delgado: Not that I can recall: no.

"Mr. Liébeler: Did you have any reason to believe that these

things come to OSvALD from the Cubar Consulate?

"Mr. Delgado: Nell. I took it for granted that they did after I

seen the envelope know Something like a Nexican eagle, with a big;

impressighseal, you know. They had different colors on it, red.

and whiteralmost looked like our colors, you know. But i can't

recall the seal.. I just krew it was in Latin, United something

like that. I couldn't understand. "It was Latin.

"Mr. Licbeler:. You don't know for sure whether it was from

the Cuban consulaté?

"ME. Delgado: No. But he had told me prior; just before I

found that envelope in his will locker, that he was receiving mail

from them, and one

time he offered to show it to me, but i wasn't

much interested because at the time we. had work to do, and I never

did ask to see lhat paper again, you know.

"Mr. Liebeler: Did he tell you what his correspondence with the

Cuban Consulate was about?

"Mr. Delgado: No, he didn't.

"Mr. Lieboler: Did he ever indicate to you that it had to

do with the conversations that you had about going over to Cuba?

"Mr. Delgado: No. The only thing he told me was that right

after he had this conversation with the Cuban people was that he was

gang to. once he got out of the service he was going to Swizterland..

Impastigation of the deraseination of presicient

rings Rafore tha preciden

Commiser

President fenneds witchingtes,

volume VIII, pp. 241-243.

matter cited

Hearings,

---

## Page 186

CY OSwALD's application to Albert Schweiteer College,

Churwalden, Switzerland, was dated lo March 1959, and he was

presumably to réport there on 20 april 1960. Destined for

discharge from the Marineson i December 1959, OSWALD accolerated

his exit on alleged grounds of family hardship in early

September 1959.

on 27 September 1959 ho was issued a U.S.

passport valid for travel - among other places to cuba and the

1. hasin

UssR. Me entered the Soviet Union from inland on 15 october 1959.

12 DELGADO's testimony has the cast of credibility. Granting

that, te is of basic importance to focus attention on the male visitor

who contact OSwAlD at el toro camp and talked with ham for between

one and a half to two hours.

The event was unique in DELGADO's

recollections faceually there is nothing like it - on the record -

in everything else we know about OswALD's activity in the

United States or after." The record reflecte no identification of

the contact. DELGADO's presumption is that the was from the:

In ettest, represent

the opening of attle on OswALDil

U.S./Cuban

diplomatic. and consular relations were severed on

3. January

1961.

---

## Page 187

Prediction"

¡of president KENNEDY's Demise by Connunist Party Cell

Leader NOrSE BENITEL LabOla, 1962

forwarded to Headquarters on 9 January 1964

a duplicate copy of a raw report by a penetration dated's January

1962 describing events at the yearly Communist Party cell mecting..

The cell leader, Morse BENITEZ Zabola, said that the Communist

party in Guatemale should form a single now partys

"We need not

preoccupy ourselves over the politics of Presidence KENNÉDY because

we know, according to prognostications, that he will die within the

present years, 1962."

if inia réport apparently had been discounted he

when it habode received and was not forwarded until the sation

re-reviewed all of its material after the assassination..

The file

reflects no followup or formal dissemination of the report:

---

## Page 188

Enigmatic Threats by Cubin Third Secretary in The Hayue.

T November 1963.

15. 1 sensitive liaison source, reporting aftor the kENNEDY

assassination, indicated that at the Sovlut reception on

7 November 1963, the Cuban Third Secretaty, Ricardo L. SANTOS Pesa:

discussed the recent refugce raids on Cuba and their implications

with a host-country diplomat, concluding with the admonitions

" Just wait and

you will see what we can do

It will happen

soon. "

Asked to be more specific what would happen soon, SANTOS

replied:

"Just walt, just wait."

it These data were passed to the Warren Commission by

memorandum, 31 March 1964. SANTOS was e

mantli reported to

have a history of mental instability and was summarily recalled

from the Hague reportedly for reasons related to that fact in

April 1966.4

10

---

## Page 189

Intercented Conversation of Cuban Embassy Employce, lisa CALDERON:

Afternoon 01. 22 Bovember 1963

.1%

At 1730 Mexico City time, about five hours after the

KENEDY assassination, ontos a Cuban Embassy employee named

"Luisa" received a telophone call in Spanish from an unidentifled

male outside.

"Is the caller asked her if she had heard the latest news.

Luisa jokingly replied:

"Yes, of course, I knew it almost before

Kennedy. Imagine, one, two, three and now, that makes

three

(she laughs), what barbarians o

a both speakers agreed on the serlousness of the assassination.

"Luisa" also stated that the party at Silvia DURAN'g had been called

off so it would not appear that they were celebrating the death

Of KENNeDY, nor would they have the party coincide with the burial.

Finally she said she planned to move that night into the house of

a doctor (a woman) friend.

¿so Lathe hyperbole? Boastful ex post facto suggestion of fore-

knowledge? This is the only item in the intercept coveragé sali f V

cubans and soviets after the assassination that farthe sugge

sitivas Do forehanted on expectation

The tanuor, enigmatic character of ther

conversation

is sharply highlighted by the following facts:

i "Luisa" was probably identical with

Luisa CALDERON, a cadre worker of the Cuban

Directorate General of Intelligence (DGI).

She returned to Cuba in 1964 and was reported

to be working in DGI headquarters.

I The DGI element in Mexico City in the

fall of 1963 was headed by Alfredo MIRABEL Diaz

who had arrived on 2 September 1963, formally

as the replacement of the Consul ENsebid AZCUE

(departed 19 November 1963). The deputy DGI

chief (and as of June 1964, MIRABEL'S SuCCeSSOr)

was Manuel Engenio VEGA Perez.

→ the stivier Diary named Tir Tratsels

canvereations meg the receptionist, a Mexican

1

---

## Page 190

The "silvia CURAN" named in misa's

conversation was the receptionist, a Mexican national,

isits_ on 27 and 28 september, to the litan installar

tions in connection with a Cuban visa appiication for

stay and/or trade are

Silvia NRIN is the sole:

live witness, regarding

activity in

Mexico City.

Her testimony, horever, in its entirety

was

taken and presented

, solely, by the Mexican, Govern-

mental authorities.. A direct confrontation

ith hei

THE)

was requested by the warren Commission but rejected by

the Mexican authorities. It is from Silvia ront's

statements that it was learned that Lo herame engaged.

personal'"

in

a / altercation on 27 September with sobBis AZCUE •

d: Manuel Eugenio VEÇA Perez, alids Marcis, and.

his DGI assistant,

Rogelis RODRIGUEY loper were

positively identified in February 1964 by two inde-

pendent sources as engaged in the active development

and facilitation of the training of vicaraguan agents

for the purpose öf assassinating General Anastasio

SOMOZA:

VEGA,

it is established, was on post in:

Mexico City during. OSWALD's stay there 27 September -

2 October 1963. He left Mexico City on 3 November 1963

for Havana. It was reliably reported about vEGA that all

individuals going to Cuba, legally or illegally, for t

pass through him first. He

took the biographical data

and sent it to Cuba for

name checking. a procedure

which normally took 15 days.

There is no evidence in the OSWALD case file that Silvia DURAN

was subjected to a systematic elicitative interrogation that would have

related her dealings with OSWALD y known and confirmed by intercept y

with the data held Marches on the Cuban Dil y its personalities

ard methods y in Mexico City. Was it normal for a case like.

OSWALD's y considering the fuss he allegedly zade with AZCUE y for

the applications to handled solely by a local esployee and a lame duck

Rile

AZCUE whose slot had been taken polites by the Dai chief?

in come, vest not los i ted , it me way wong

---

## Page 191

ud säsiduntioni f the tie

' Che Lao flain

wa tok.coe

Vooicmito Thesdse bau

tloyier eslsa theg

of the fos!

nelet an fome Nar Culen Feni a ro nepil-

diesing tte,;

2.Nr 1963.

Ter, i sn

s ot td peatly oi ayni,

---

## Page 192

mins the more fundamental question: accuptins the caid scor

citer inowine and participatio:

eristoras

CASTRO'S

miquench' intelligence and security

service could have more in its files than she surfaced in the

DORAN. statements:

coming back to the beginning: "Luisa"

Luisa CALDERO! - as a member

of the dGI unit in Mexico City' - could

very well hare known something that would make what she said to her

unidentified caller less a matter of boastful sulf-indulgence than was

assumed at that time.

seed neole sensed scent, di des

it is clan thats

---

## Page 193

Silvia DURAN, Subarancial Amplifigation of Admission of

Alleged Personal Relations with LiO

1957.

The defects viewed in hindsight of the Silvia DURAN testimony

alrcady have been

suggested above. ¡In that context of criticism

it would also be relevant to reconsider the implications of the

two intercepted telephone conversations

on :26 November 1963

between the Cuban President, DORTICOS, and his Ambassador to

Mexico, Joagulm ichandez Armas, because the thrust of the conver-

sacion dealt with the

i kia pin yuestion whether silvian nUrN had been asked

about money payments by hex Mexican interrogators.

2S: As of September 1964 Silvia DURAN gave up her Cuban Embassy

job.

In the spring of 1967 Silvia DURAN was reported by a reliable

and sensitive, source to have cut all relations with Cubans. Her

1967)

account, of how the had been taken into custody and had

been

interrogated after the

assassination repeated what was already known.

She added, under circumstances that

did not. permit the source to

challenge or elleit corroboratith detail, that

she had gone out

with LHo during his

stay in Mexico City and claimed she had

sexua

relations with him.

squell p

---

## Page 194

Govornment dents sith

articular Arranget

to Allections of

(a) Elena GAsso do Pras and lo) Oscar CONTRERAS

25:

As the barren commission reported, "Literally dozens of

allegations ir a

conspiratorial contact between OstiAiD and agents of

the Cuban Government hare been investigated ..."É mong these cases!

which consumed hundreds of Cia man hours in Headquarters and abroad -

and similarly the FBI in the United States - means the

Nicaraguan walkin in Mexico City i 26 November 1963

Gilberto: ALVARADO Ugarten

in Con

i dad thin

O1O:

d. The ALVARaDo case is taken up in detail by the Warren Commission

under the cyprograph *D. "d ALVARADO Claimed chat he had seen an

smorican, whom he identified as oswell, recolve money sometime in

mid-September 1963 in

jof the Cubän Consulate in

Mexcio City. ALVADARO's story was ultimately broken by; the use

emiliaoli

of the polygraph, on which ALVARADO slowed deception and bringing

ALVARADO" SA

Nicaraguan security service contact) into the case.

cli the ALVARADO story is a particularly acute representation of the

difficülties that beset the evaluation of observed evidence: cortain

elements of the story persist despite the impeachment of its major

premises. In this-case:ALVARADO, whose account did not become public!

until the irification of the warren Report in October 1961, talked

consistently of the presence in the Cuban Consulate transactions of

a Negro with red-dyed hair.

Elena GARRO de Paz is a mecurial, articular and socially

prominent Mexican writer, marriad, but separated from a high-ranking

Mexican foreign

service official. She is, also, the cousin of

Horacio DURAV, the husband of Silvia DURAN, cited above. There is

a strong personal antipathy between the two women descending from

Elena GARRO's trenchant anti-Communism.

Some of the other wile: the cross y

this

See Report, P.

See Report, pp. 307 - 308

GALLANT

Santa Clara Prise Zamm, Californ, and He allegations

of Ray DoBkins.

5

---

## Page 195

1d-0n0d

27,

¡rom October ide until his retroment in the full or 1ir?.

@ U.S. Embassy officer, Charles Morts, persintently kept 4p 3

stream of roports and memoranda reflecting CARRog account of that

had actually gone on between OSWALD, the Cubans and in particular

Silvia DURAN in september 1963, including a repeated reference to

a Negro with Lid legled avais.

The first reference to the GARRO story was noted in Mexico

Station Memorandum of Record dated 12 October: 1964s

*Elena CARRO (saidl that she and her daugher

were invited to a party at the Cuban Embassy during

the period she now finds out that OSWALD was here

In Mexico prior to the assassination. She was

Invited by a Mexican secretary in the Cuban Embassy

whose husband. is a cousin of the GARRO. family

(Horacio DURANJ: At the party she saw three

Gringos, not. drinking, not mixing and more or less

just standing around together liko three bumps on a

10g. They were so obviously out of place, she asked

someone in the Cuban Erbassy about them and was told

that: " they were just passing through.? "She claims

that on the way these three Gringos stood out she

took a good look at them as did her daughter. When the

assassination occurred and OSWALD's picture was spread

into the newspapers, both Elena and her daughter

immediataly said that he was one of the three Gringos

without a doubt' at the party."

3f' GARRO repeated her. story to. Mr. Charles William THOMAS, an

Embassy political officer on 10 December 1965: In September 1963

after her tams return

from abroad, she went to a party, accompanied

by her daughter, at the home of Ruben DURAN (emphasis added, Ruben is

one of the two brothers of Horacio DURANI, who married her cousin. She

met OSWALD and two other young Americans. At the party she was

discouraged from talking with him. Other, guests were the

Cuban Consul AZCUE, General Clark FLORES, Silvia DURAN, who she later

Learned was OSWALD's mistress while he was here, Emilio CARBALLIDO, and

a Latin American Negro man with red hair (emphasis addedl. In

November 1963 when the identity of the assassin became known, she and

6

---

## Page 196

hes daughter-rent to the Cuban Labassy.

and shouted "assassins" and.

other insults at the staff there.! shortly afterward, she and hor

daughter vero visited by a friend, Manuel CARVILLO. (Or CALVELLO.

then

an official in the Secroturiat of the cobernacion twisein

and were told he had orders tó

escort them to i small and obscure hotel in the center of town.

They were kept there for eight days under pretext that they were

in danger.

When she told CARVILLO she wanted to go to the

American Embassy and explin what she knew of OSwAlD,

she was told. that

the American, Embassy was full of Communist spler.

On 25 Decerber 1965 and 9 January 1966 in further interviews

with THOMAS, CARRO and her daughter elaborated and i certain

particulars significantly modified her earlier account. She also,

acknowledged that she and her daughter had been interviewed by

Embassy officers to whom

she claimed they did not give a very

completed story because

the Embassy officers

did not appear to give

much credence to anything she. said:

33. It to developed that CARRO and daughter had been interviewed

by the Legal Attached on

17 and 24 November 1964.

Her information 'had

been similar to what she claimed in her account to THOMAS, but hid

not been substantiated by inguiries.. The

FBI representative

therefore considered the matter closed and reaffirmed his dis

engagement from the matter to the CIA Chief-of Station on 27 December

1965:-and to the Ambassador on 25

February 1965.

go: The Embassy Political Officer, however, persisted in his

interviews and reporting. ""A memorandum of conversation,

13 July 1966, in which GARRO identified the place to which she had

been taken by CALVILLO as the Hotel Vermont. (This detail checked

out affirmativety.. GARRO was at the Hotel 23 - 24, 25 - 27 and

28 - 30 November 1963.) "Another, on ? February 1967, imshton GARRO's

beast continuing vicissitudes with the Cubans are set out. And

finally, upon THOMAS' retirement from U.S. Government service, the

Department of State, at his request, 28 August 1969, disseminated

to CIA and FBI a compilation of his reporting of the Elena GARRO

inson interviewf.:i

There the matter rests. GARRO's chronology of the events

she described as having occurred in the Mexican capital in

I. Them partialass wess not do fine day in dependent absenter, at

---

## Page 197

September

tus mou coincided wich the nited date desall"s.

there. Her blory however hard twes points congline with ales

gations by others regarding OSWALD: (a) ALVARADO's allegations

regarding the Negro with the red-dyod hair Ithis detail could,

however, have been gleaned from the warren Conmission pathstand

account

• of the "D" casel and

(D) Sylvia DURAN's cuda later claim of intimate

personal contacts with OSWALD.

Bo; Beginning in March and amplified In May 1967, the

American Consul, Benjamin J. RULE, In Tampico developed a contact

with a locál Mexican journalist, Oscar CONTRERAS Lartigue, who claimed

to have encountered OSWALD with other pro-CASTRO students at the

University of Mexico campus in September 1963.

137 In June 1969. CONTRERAS was Interviewed by a CIA officers

He studied law at the Unviersity of Mexico for

three years, approximately 1960 - 1964.

He belonged

to a clandestine pro-CASTRO Revolutionary group at:

the University. Regarding the OSWALD case he was

extremely cautious and although he was not able or

willing to give dates and names, he said OSWALD®

visited the University of Mexico campus shortly

after the Cuban Embassy

refused him a visa to

visit Cuba.

OSWALD made inquiries regarding

"T"

pro-Cuban reolutionary groups at the University

and was directed to CONTRERAS and his

friend.

OSWALD met CONTRERAS and four other persong as

they came out of a round-table discussion held

in the faculty of Philosophy. OSWALD told the

group it was urgent that he visit Cuba and the

Cuban Embassy denied him a visa. He requested

aid from CONTRERAS' group. CONTRERAS and others

mistrusted OSWALD because they felt he was a CIA

provocation. The group allowed OSWALD to

accompany them the rest of that day, that night

and part of the next day. OSWALD was very

introverted and appeared to be slightly crazy.

OSWALD made no mention of an assassination plot

but kept bringing

up the pussies point he had to

travel to Cuba immediately.

---

## Page 198

At chos point, sien sod knobledge, the matter das elenal

ores to the Mexicon authoritico who determined that CONTREKAS WaS

indeed at the University of Moxies but only for the yearg

1959

1960 and that he had been publiently assause in protest activity

for the Student Revolutionary Bloc (BER) in January 1961. However.

the group ceased functioning as such in the middle of 1962 and

Oscar CONTRERAS. was

never one of its leaders.

No further work

is reflected in the files on the CONTRERAs allegations. Apart from

the unsustained claims made by CONTRERAS about his own presence at

the University, there is an additional elements that undermines

the credibility of his account. OSWALD's Spanish, which was

barely adequate to get him meals near in hotel, de seems hardly

Likely to have permitted him to carry on for an extended period

with a University student group

---

