# 104-10234-10131

## Page 1

104-10234-10131

1

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATIONI

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

RELEASING OFFICER

E/WH/C/RR1

COPY NO.

1s, 419 Car

CLASSIFICATION

TRANSMIT

TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

E eb

127

SECRET

ORIG.

UNIT

WH/C/RR/RE

EXT.

5547

DATE

22 March 1966

CONFIRMATTON COPIES

WHC 10

INFORMATION COPIES

DATE DISTRIBUTED

ROUTING

2

5

MaR 22 21

. 3 8 266

TDC SDB-315/00896-66

CS/DPS CI/IC, FI, FI/D, PI/INT 6, IM, CA 2, CA/PEG, DO 2, DO/H 4, WH 9.

22 March 1966

WHC/RE

HC/RR

WHC/FI

3 WHC/SI

, WHC/WAVE

IWHC/CA

WHC/CI

WHC/KO

1 WH/PACY

EVALUATON

REQUESTED

STATE

DF

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

DISSEMINATION

IWE/5/R

1

IWE/MADR 1

PRECEDENCE

X ROUTINE|

BASED ON (ND. R9T., PRC).)

WAVE-9731

(IN-79798)

UFG-8060

NP (QUMALT-])

Liaison *

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

CONTROLLED DISSEM

Grace

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AMLASH -1

SECRET

PWATENA FILLED INY

1S-4A 18-8 OIOLAREPARMONSENTIONES

s@citri@ti@nncnetenetanab sich

*is-mor

tierta

---

## Page 2

CONF DENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

CONTROLLED DISSEN

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF 13 MARCH 1966

INFO.

TDCSDB-315/00896-66

DISTR 22 MARCH 1966

- SUBJECT

SECRETARY FOR FOREIGN RELATIONS AND

POSSIBLE ARREST OF ROGELTO LOLESTAS POT SOCIAL

AFFAIRS OF THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN WORKERS'

ORGANIZATION

MAEACO UNITED STATES, MIANI (21 MARCH 1966)

REF

IN

SOURCE

AND

FIELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL: A FORMER CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL WHO DEFECTED IN A WESTERN COUNTRY

AND WHO HAS PROVIDED USEFUL INFORVATION SINCE LATE 1964.

TAINED THE INFORVATION FROM A RELATIVE IN THE UNITED STATES OF

ROGELIO IGLESIAS PATIÑO.

STATE/ANN

:1. BY 13 MARCH 1966 ROGELIO ICLESIAS PATIÑO, SECRETARY FOR

FOREIGN RELATIONS AND SECRETARY FOR SOCIAL ASSISTANCE OF THE CENTRAL

DE TRABAJADORES DE CUBA REVOLUCIONARIA (CTC-R, REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN

WORKERS' ORGANIZATION) WAS UNDER ARREST BY ORDER OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT

AUTHORITIES.

2. FIELD COMMENT: IT IS POSSIBLE THAT IGLESIAS' ARREST IS A

DIRECT RESULT OF THE RECENT TRIAL OF ROGELIO CUBELA SECADES AND

RAMON GUIN DIAZ. ONE OF THE INDIVIDUALS TRIED WITH CUBELA AND GUIN

WAS JOSE LUIS GONZALEZ GALLARRETA WHO FORMERLY HELD A DIPLOATIC

POST IN SPAIN AND WHO WAS A GOOD FRIEND OF IGLESIAS.

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO.

END OF MESSAGE

3, U.8.C. Beca, T33 and 79

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR

REPCINCLANT

SECDEF NSA NIC JIS USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 8%: DCS

CIA/NYCC

hera,

---

