# 104-10104-10435

## Page 1

104-10104-10435

•UNCLASSIFIED

NAL

USL

ONLY

CONI

_ATIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

C. GO: 69-0016

SECRET

SE6609

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

2.

General Counsel

7D01

0gc. 690016

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE RENOUS +

EDITIONS

SECRET

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

1653

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

8/г

DO NO PrOTECLOs

NO.

DATE

3 JAN 1969

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

File

OGC SUBJECT:

KENNEDY ASSASSINATICN

GARRISON

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

I UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECRET

LE JAN 1963

MEMORANDUM

-

SUBJECT: Garrison and the Kennedy Assasainaton:

William Clarens WOOD Jr., allas William BOXLEY,

201-834272

Reference: CI/R&A Memorandum No. 9, Subject: Garrison

and the Kennedy Assassination, 5 June 1968, paragraph 19c

A. Summary

Willam Clarena WOOD Jr. was employed by CIA as a contract

instructor in elandestine operatione from March 1951 when he arrived

until March 1952, when he had a nervous breakdown resulting

from family problems and alcoboliem. Sent back to Headquartere,

he served as an Instructor in OTR from May 1952 to January 1953,

when his resignation was requested, again because of heavy drinking.

During or before July 1968 Garrison, who knew that WOOD had been a

CLA employee, hired him as as Investigator anaigned to Garrison'e

"Inveetigation" of the Kennedy assausination. In December 1969, however,

Garrison's office announced that WOOD had been fired because it had been

ascertained that he was then active as a CIA "operative". Later is 13-28

December. WOOD made two telephone calls to his former chief la

requesting contact and instructlons.

The cave la being referred to the fBI.

B. Summary of Earlier Evente

1. William Clarens WOOD Jr., born 17 August 1920 ia Shreveport,

Juliana, was approved in November 1944 for overseas employment

by OSS in an absignment as a newspaperman (printing chief in a Contral

Pacific operation). This approval was withdrawn on 23 December 1944,

however, because of non-concurrence by OG/AAF. He was then ansigned

to combat infantry duty in the Southwest Pacific; he was not used by OSS.

In February 1945 be visited the Honolulu Office of O8S and claimed that

GROUP Y

ULURET

Excladed trom auramatic

downgrading and

declassification

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ad been recruited by OSS while he was attending infantry school

, Fort Benning in October 1944. He stated that his services were to

nave been ined to originate and conduct radio programs in the CBI

theater, that he had been investigated by Dunn and Bradatreet, and that

in the tourne of a long distance telephone call to the OSS Personnel

Procurement Office he had been told that OSS could not use him at that

time but that he should keep in touch. The intervlewing officer ia

Honolulu commented In his report to Security Offlees, OSS Headquarters.

that the Duno and Bradatzeet leak should be noted and that WOOD

certainly knew more about OSS than any other potential recruit whom the

Interviewer had ever seen.

On 13 December 1950 Subject was given a Coveft Securtty

Clearance for uds na & stall agent and was abdigned to

he Chief

Intructor of Clandestine Operations. He arrived at his post in March

1951, and two monthe later his dependents were indued travel clearances

to join him. In March 1952 he suffered a nervous breakdown and was

returned to Agency Headquarters for medical obnervation. The medical

conclusion was that the breakdown had resulted from family troubles and

overindulgence in alcohol. In May 1952 WOOD was assigned to OTR

ao an instructor in the Operations Course. In October 1952 his statas

was converted to that of a staff employee, and he was assigned to OTR

as a GS-11 Inetructor.

3. In December 1952 an Agency guard found WOOD lying on &

aldewalk near Temporary Bye Bullding. He was bleeding frem the

mouth. There was no evidence of foul play. At his own request he was

talen to Emergency Hospital. In January 1953 be failed to report for

duty. Agency represeratives went to his residence, the Lafayette Hotel,

and found him under the influence of alcohol.. He was requested to report

for duty the next day, but the hotel doctor had him removed to Gallinger

Hospital because of continued intonication. Subject'e resignation was

requested on 19 January 1953 and became effective 27 January 1953.

4. On 11 July 1953 Subject telephoned the Security Office from

Dallas, Teras. He sald that he would undergo brain surgery on 13 July

at Baylor Hospital, Dalles. He asked that an Agency representative

be present. Arrangements were made to ensure that anything WOOD

sald under anaesthesla would remain confidential. WOOD was given

sodium pentothol, but no aurgery (except a spinal tap) was performed.

In his hospital room, to which he had been returned from the operating

room, WOOD said that he had served oversens with the CIA and had

2

---

## Page 4

SECRET

seen many people killed. "The CIA are a bunch of dirty cut-throats,

and I wouldn't he & bit surprised it they sent one of their men to cut

mine. They think they are smart, but one of these days in the near

future I will show them who is the martest. They have about 100

G3-14'= walking around with their heade shaped like eggs.... I have

been a failure but after 1 get well I am going to go back to achool and

got my degree and fight the CIA with everything that I can."

5. A report of 30 April 1957 from the FBl office in Dallas, Tesas,

noted that Subject had telephoned from Midland, Texas, to & Chinese

intelligence officer in Formona. WOOD said that he had formerly been

employed by the CIA. He offered to holp the officer "with thing. I know".

Ho then telephoned Lubbock, Texas, and spoke to a person believed to

be his wife.

He told her that he had spoken with Chiang Kal-Chek's chief

of intelligence and that "11 this thing goes through", the and the baby

would receive from $700 to $1000 a month.

6. In February 1967 the Domestic Contact Service in Dallas

requested clearance to une Subject and reported that he had not had a

drink in sine and a half years.

On 3 March 1967 derogatory FBI informa-

tion and the information that WOOD was again drinking hearly were

forwarded to the DGS, which then dropped hire as a potential source.

%. On 18 January 1968 Ros OSTROW of the Los Angeles Times

called the A/DCI and relayed a Los Angeles query about a former CIA

agent, William BOXLET, who was an lavestigator for Jim Garricon.

The A/DCI replied, "no comment. "

06

was conducting investigations in Dallas for Jim Garrison under the alles

of BiLl BOXLEY, WOOD was making inqulzios about the CIA and its

operations. It was further reported that WOOD was well known in

Houston and that his connection with Garrison was no secret.

9. On 12 July 1968 the Now York Ilmes (p. C35) carried an article

hoadlined "Garrison Claime Foreign Spy Link". The article includes

the following:

"Over the telephone, Mr. Garrison aldo introduced an

Investigator for his office, BIll Boxley, as a former

3

tiles utter

---

## Page 5

Central Intelligence Agency instructor in the 'clandestine

operations department'. He sald he had found Mi. Boxley

while seeking a'man who had been with the intelligence

agency but till cared about the United States. '

"NI. Boxley then sald bie real name was Willlam C.

Wood; he was forty-eight years old, origially from Texas;

he had worked 10 years so a newspaper reporter - last

on The Denver Post from 1948 to 1950; he had been with the

Intelligence agancy two to five years in the 1950's overseas

and in Washington and had 'used as many as 10 different

names in operations with the agency'. "

10. The banie facte about WOOD were provided to the FBI by

CSC1 316/02725-68 of 15 July 1968. Additional relevant information

was requested. The Bureau replied on 18 July 1968 that the "Berkeley

Barb"', published by the Underground Press' Syndicate, had stated in

its lanue of 29 December 1967 - 4 January 1968 that BUl BOXLEY,

an investigator for Garrison, had verliled a Malia plot to kill Garrieon.

11. The New Orleans Times-Picayune of 10 December 1968

carried the following:

"'The office of Orleans Parish Dietrict Attorney Jim

Garrison Monday announced the removal of a member of

the etaff investigating the assassination of Preaident John

F. Kennedy because of alleged involvement with the ClA.

" 'William Boxley was fired after evidence recently

developed by the District Attorney's stalf indieated current

activity by him as an operative of the Central Intelligence

Agency, ' the office said.

"Boxley's initial service with the CIA was in Washington,

D. C., where he served for years as an active agent for 'what

was then termed the Department of Covert Actluity', according

to the office.

"The office said federal intelligence efforte to interfere

with the investigation into President Kennedy's assasaination

have been occurring since the beginning of the inquiry'."

SENET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

12. The New Orleans Ilmes-Picayune Of 12 December 1968

included the following item:

"Garrison alno commented on William Berley,

an inventigator he fired on Monday because, Garrison

sald, he was an operative of the Central Intelligence

Agency.

" 'He was not only a ClA agent, ' sald the DA, 'but

he was one on & very high level'. Asked what proof hia

office developed, Garrison said it concerned material

that Boxley had put in written form.

"Boxley, contacted in Auatin, Tex., told the

Times-Picayune on Wednesday that he has not been

involved with the CIA or any federal agency since 1952.

"He said he belleved Garriaon 'has been genuinely

misled' about his CIA Involvement, adding: 'I am sure

he belteves as strongly in this (bie alleged CIA involvement)

no he once belleved in me." Boxley sald he would cooperate

completely with Garriaon'e office in returning to it materlal

he still has in his posaeselon.

Boxley said the only written material he ever provided

Garrison's office was a description of how various intelligence

agencios operate.

Boxley sald he was 'really sad' over his firing by

Garrison, but added that he belleved no one could convince

Garriaon that he was not an agent of the CIA. "

C. Current Developmenta

13. On 27 December 1968 Dr. Stephen Aldrich of DD/S and T

informed the Office of Security that at 1600 hours on 27 December he

had recolved a telephone call from Subject, who had been bie subordinate

CI/R&A called Dr. Aldrich, who supplied the following

additional information:

5

::.

---

## Page 7

• *

SECHET

-

a. WOOD said that he was calling from a pay

phone in a Seare Rosbuck store in Dallas. He provided

& home telephone number, which we have not been able

to verify, and he believes that this telephone ia bugged.

Dr. Adich had found thy Lep only previous cell was

made in 1966, when he requested a recommendation for

& newspaper job for which he was applying. Dr. Aldrich

referred him to Pereonnel.

c. Subject told Di. Aldrich on 27 December that

he had information which he urgently wanted to communicate

to ChA. He sounded upset.

14. C/CI/R&A advised Dr. Aldrich that 11 Subject telephoned

again, he should be told that his call had been referred to the proper

authorities. Because of the information reported above, there was

a possibility of provocation.

15. In the mid-afternoon of 28 December 1968 Subject again

tolephoned Di. Aldrich from an unknown location. He asked whether

someone would be in touch with him. Dr. Aldrich said that Subject'e

information had been relayed to those responsible and that he had no

information about future contact. Subject sald that he was not trying

to involve Di. Aldrich but that he did have information to relay. He

sounded leas frightened than on his previous call. He suggested that

1= 1951-1952). Out of a

job, WOOD had received two or three offere of employment but was not

sure of the identities of the prospective employers and feared

provocation, presumably from Garrison'e office. Apparently he belleves

that the FBI is monitoring hie horae telephone.

16. It to our intent to ank the Bureau to relay this information

to ita office in Dallas and to instruct an FBI representative to call

upon Subject and requeat elucidation, because such information

6

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

9C64.0016

SECRET

as Subject may have, lí any, le withta the Burear'» juriedletion

rather than that of this Agency.

Donovan E. Pratt

DC/CI/R&A

Distribution:.

Orig - DCI

1 - DDP

1 - Executive Comptroller

1 - General Counsel

1 - A/DCI

1 - Office of Security

I - Dizector, Domestic Contact Service

1 - C/CI, DC/CI

1* ROD/Files, 801-834272

1 • CI/R&A chrono

1 - DP Garrison file

→ ..

---

