# 104-10162-10000

## Page 1

104-10162-10000

SICKLT

SIR SUPPLINLAT PRIVARID KY:

Harriet J. GUILLLRMINA

DATI::

18 Narch 1908

201 NUMBER:

401-90701

A -NUMBEK:

#: 3718375

J. NAME: Ivan Gavrilovich ALFLKYLV

11.

CURICULUM VITAL:

a)

Education:

1957: graduatod from the Moscow Institute of Foreign Languagos.

1958-60: KGB Intolligenco School.

(2)

e)

Travel:

1) Unconfirmed TDY trip lavana, Soptember 1958.

7) In Soprambor 1963 Subject und Valorly Vladimirovich NOSTIKOV

(201-305052), known KGB, traveled to Ensonada where they were in contact

with Isank Carlos CHAPLUK (201-229418), Niguol POPOFF (201-286055), and

Nuna SIMANOVICHI (201-750514) (See Items 15 C 11, 12, 18). KOSTIKUV and

Subject had dinnor with CHAPLUs on two occasions, and traveled with him

to Entoro Beach, Punta Beach, and La Misdon, Subject sold CHAPLUN that

he was in Ensenada as a quest of the party which was accompanying che wido

of prosident Adollo LOPE? Mateon on a erip to Baja, Callfornia, (1) lle

1ator to?d POPOFF that he was there collecting material for a book that he

was Willing on l1fo in Mexico to be ontitleú Faco to Face, He further

stered that he had been in Argontina for ono jesr, and claimed to have a

wato and daughter in the USSR. (1)

a? puring this srip subject and KOSTIKOY authorized Democale

ANAGUER TOrTOs (201-133189) (Bo0 Iton 15 & 4) to locato two or shree

Mexican youths to travel and study in tho USSR. (1)

*› While In Moxicaii Subject and KOSTINOV wore beliovod so be che

sortor buyers of 20,000 bales of cotton to be shippod through linsendo,

destinntion unknown. The purchase was made from Algedenere Sommercial

Mexleane, 9. A, and the lacevon brothora In Mexicall, (1) Melcher Subjree.

noS KOSTIKOV had herocofore boon involvod in commercial dentingo.

-10) -Buhyere and fantly depupted Mexice City. VES 24 Geenhar 1900. (J)

He Mao soplaced by Visdini Agaronowich DOLOOV (201-19257), Suspect wil,

probably NGU, (4)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

ne Anov.

RIS INPUT 10A

---

## Page 2

14-00000

PSICAL DESCRIPTION AND PHOTOS:

Al foryeva

& son Vadim

. 6 R

---

## Page 3

SI.CRLT

1 - 2.

11)

Subject and wife arrived PCS in buenos Aires 27 January 1908. (77)

Ile replaced Viktor

Mikhaynwich FlIPPOV (201-243340), known ats, probably

NGB, as First Secretary. (78)

12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION:

Subject is

a known KGB officer of the Fifth Department, First Chlof

Diroctorato.

(AESTORAGE) (2) Subject has also been identified by DERYABIN

as having definitely worked for the NGs in Moscow Headquarters, 1952-53.

14, C. Whilo Subjock and KOSTIKOV wore in Tijuann they reportedly mot

with local membors of tho Movimionto Liboracion Nacional MLN) and tho

Central Camposina Indopendiente CCI). (b)

15. CONTACTS:

A. Soviet:

1) Vitally Borisovich SHUBIN (201-266547), Known KGH, SHUBIN was

Attacho in the Consular Soction in Moxico from May 1960 through July 1964.

No spoks both English aud Spanish. SHUDIN was later Second Secretary

In Santiago from July 1965 until he was expolled in April 1967.

During his tour in Moxico Subjoct was fairly close to shubin.

His wife was also very friendly with SlUBINA, for whom she used to baby.

ade until she finally had her fill of SHUBiNS and cold subjeet abous de

in no uncertain torme. (Soe Charactorization)

3) Lov Nodorovich SHENGALEV (201-328294), Suapect KGB, SHENGALLY

was a Commorcial Roprosentative In Moxico ¿rom 1001-64.

subject was closost to SUBIN and SINGALEY during his tour

in Headse.

3) Valordy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV (201-305052), Known KGB.

KOSTIKOV was Vico Connul and Attachó In Moxico from 1001-05, le do a gradunto

of the Moncow Instituto of Forolen Languanos • Spandah and English. KOSTIKOV

was a member of the sovlot Dologation me the 17ch Incornationad Rallroad

Congres An Madrld, 19588 actondod tin Seviot Industrlal exposition In

Mexico City an 1050 and again In 1000 ln lavana.

subjece accompanted KOSTIAUY on a trip to Tijuena in september.

1065, (600 Item 11 e7)

BECRUT

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRIT

• 3.

4) Aleksandr Vladimirovich PRINHOUNO (201-20237), Nnown Nib.

PRIKHODNO was Second Sceretary and acted as Secretary to the Ambassador

in Mexi:o from 1957-61. lle was proviously reported to have been a

Language Instructor in Noscow in 1950. lo wus Second Secretary/Consul

Géneral in Montevideo from 1950-54, PRINUDIO is currently First Secre-

tary in Moxico City.

5) Vladimir Ivanovich SIIPAKEVICH (201-343894), KNown KGB,

SIIPAKEVICH was Third Socrotary in Moxico City from 1907-07.

6) Yevgenly Grigoryevich LAPSIlliV (201-214391), Known RIS,

probably XEd, LAPSHEY was a Commorcial Ropresentative in Moxico from

1958-61, He attended the Moscow Institute of Foreign Rolations for fivo

years, and has made ono trip to Argentina (dates unspecified) for an exhibit.

7) Yurly Dmitriyovich KALININ (201-747443), Suspoct KGB.

KALININ was a chauffeur/mechanic in Mexico from 1962-04.

8) Aloksey Ivanovich GARMASIIOV (201-227418), KnOWn KGB.

GARMASIOV was First Socrotary in Mexico City from 1961-0d. In 1951 ho

made « TDY ErIp tO Havana and Moxico as an intorpreter, and in 1952 ho

vas a member of the Sovlet Radiology Congress belegation as an interpreter.

GARMASHOV served as Third Secretary in suenos Mires from 1954-59. le 18

presently Firat Secrotary in Rio de Janeiro.

Bo U. S. CITIZUNS!

1) Snu MANJARREZ • probably Idenelcal wich Kathorine MANJARREZ/noo

ROACH/ (201-801657)•

probe 3 becomber 1916, now York Gley.

Amshorino MANJARRiZ was Uirector of the Forcign Correspondents

Annociation In Mexleo Clty in 1060, (Sho 1o divorcod from Dandol C.

MANJARANG, @ NOXICAn CIEIzOn.) KatherInO MANJARRUZ Was siantod a POA

In July 1000, 16 was cancellou in April 1007, bocauso she rocused

cooperation. (40)

C. Other Wontern Clelsenal

1) DE, Carlos NOBLE llOyO (201-86452) : >

;.,

2B Aprll 1011, l'achuen, Ilúnlgo, Moxico.

NOBLE 10 a prominent Mexican specamlint in rempiratory pud.

monry dinoses, He has boon the personal physician of the soviet and

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SI: CRIT

-4.

Czechoslovakian mission personnel for a number of years. (7) lolitically,

he was first identified as being connecled with the fartido Popular (PI),

the Marxist political party of Vicente LOMBARDO Toledano, from the

founding of the lp in 1947 until about 1050, when he is believed to have

transferred his allegiance to the Mexican Communist Party (PCM). le was

reported to be an alternate member of the Centrnl Committee of the PCM

In 1954, He was olectod Secretary-General of the Movimiento Mexicano

por la Paz (MMP) when 1t was first organized in 1949, and has since played

a loading role in activitles of the Conmitteo. In 1058 NOBLI, with Ur.

Ignacio CHAVEZ Sanchoz (201-068519) (See Item 15 C 3), attended the

International Cardiology Congress in Brussels, then continued on to visit

Pragio, Moscow, and leking. NOBLE 1s a suspect Soviet agent. Thore is

strong ovidenco that his agent function is that of linison botween the

PCM and the Soviet Embassy, (6) Howover, in October 1961 NOBLE WAS Oi°

polled from the PCM. The ostensiblo reason was that he was a dues-paying

member, not active in the work of the coll. It la belleved that the true

reason was bocauso of a personal enmity botwoon NOBLE and Dr. Mario RIVERA

over the lactor's wifo, The Soviot and Czech embassies thought the ex-

pulsion unjustified and still retained NOBLE as their physician. (5) He

18 associated with the Hospital Neumologia y Cirugla de Torax. (VOI: 1965)

3) DE. Guillerno MONTANO Islas (201-108926)

DPOB: 10 Apr1l 1903, Pachuce, lidalgo, Mexico

MONTANO, a prominent loftist Mexican physician and past

Director of the National Cancer Inseizute, was on of the soveral momber:

who broke with the MIN in 1900 to add in organizing the Pormanent National

Committee of Solldarity Nith Vlotnam. (25) (26) (800 Item 15 C 18) In

1053 MONTANO was Involvod In preparations for and reportedly attended sie

Commundar-inspired World Modical Congress In Vienna which was headed by

D8. Ce"los NODLH lloyn (201-90452) (Soo Item 15 C 1), and also atteridor:

by Dr. Ignaçdo CHAV!% Sanches (201-008810) (See Stem 15 C J), In 1950

MONTANO was Secrotaty of t'ropaganda of che Movimiento Mexicono por la Pas

(MMP), 1n which D8, NObLE was also activoly Involved, and was at the same

came Directnr ni she Socimind de Latudloa Moxicanes, (23)

Whilo Diroctor of the National Cancor Inatituto in 1968, he

SECRBT

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRLI

=5=

visited the USSR as a member of the Mexican Commission &^ Auclear Energy. (24)

In 1964 MONTANO was in contact with Maria listher UHNA lajerina (4U1-0/010),

a former KGB ogent who was at that time in contact with the Chinese

Communists In Mexico City, (29) (CONILNT: Naria ClAPA was also in con-

tact with Ignacio ACOSTA Lagunas (201-108907), (See Item 15 © 5).

3) Dr. Ignacio CHAVE? Sanchez (201-068519)

DPOB: 31 January 1897, Zirandaco, Michoacan, Mexico.

Dr. CHAVEZ is a prominont Mexican physicia', leftist sympathizer,

and Soviot medical advisor in Mexico City. From 1949-01 ho was Director

of the National Institute of Cardiology, In 1953 ho headed the Mexican

delegation to the Communist-inspired Norld Medical Cong-ass in Vionna.

In 1958 CHWVEZ, With D5. Carlos NOBLE lloyo (201-96452), attended the

International Cardiology Congress in Brussels, then continuod on to visit

Prague, Moscow, and Poking. (27) CHAVEZ was appointed Rector of the

Univnrsitario Nacional Autonoma de Mexico (UNAN) in 1961. (28) In his

capacity as Roctor, CHAVEZ visited Crochoslovakla as a guest of the

Hinistry of Education, (29) In 1966 CHAVEZ was forced to resign from

Pis position no Rector because of political enmities between himself and

President Gustavo DIAZ Ordaz, In ordor to rid himself of clavliz, blAz had

offorod him the ambassadorial post in France. When CHAVEZ refusod a split

was provoked, Although cho intolloctual allte of Mexico undeod to an un-

expocted degree bohind ClAVH?, student animosity and political pressure

embarrassed Cllnviz to the oxtont that ho submittod lin renignution. (30)

4) Demetrio ALRAGUiR TorTOS (201-133189)

Allas "Cameron"

DOD! cirCa 1029

ALMAGUUR ls a membor of tho Haja Califonide dtnto Committoo

of the PCM, (37) lle has aiso boen, and may possibly 1e1ll bu, a mambor

of the Undon Gonorai do Ouroros y Composinos Mexicaros (UROC™), • PEM

Pront-organization, (50) In 1950 ALMAGUIR travoled through the rural

arons of Moxienll selling cloching and

modicinos. The inttor were given

so him by a modical Inboratory for advortlaing distribucson, (so) At the

_same time ho wan a tax collector for the treasury Deparemont of she Stato

of Baja California, (35)

SDC RET

WRITE

---

## Page 7

SECRET

- 6.

His frendom of mobility made him in attra tive recruitment

prospect for Subject and KOSTIKOV. In 1904 they authorized him to locate.

three Nexican youths to travel and study in the USSR. ALMAGULK contacted

Ranon PENNERE and asked him if he had a son who would mect the necessary

qualifications to start preparing for schonl in Moscow. (38)

5) Ignacio ACOSTA Lagunas (201-103907)

DPOB: 24 June 1917, Mexico

ACOSTA 1s a formor nide of General Lazaro CARLiNAS del Rio.

In 1960 ACOSTA participated in the Latin Amorican Youth Congress in

lavana. In 1961 le attended the Cuban Nay Day celcbration, (31) Tho

following yoar ACUSTA was a member of the federal District Committee of

the MLN and was activo in the preparation for the Continental Congress

of Solidarity with Cuba. (32) In 1905 ho bocame a member of the

Executivo Committee of the MLN. (33) ACOSTA claimed to have had dinnor

with Che Guevara in October 1965, lle reportod that Che Guevara had been

residing.

In Moxico for threo months incognito and shat he was prosently

leaving for Latin America. (33)

ACOSTA was In contace wich two Sovlots in Mexico (excluding

Subjeet) • Yurly Nikolayovich PAPOROV (201-82485), KnOWn KGB, and YUrlY

Konstantinovich ALLKSANDROV (201-262821), Suspect KGb. PAPORUV 18

prOBOnELY PCS In linvana as a Novost! ropresentativo.

In the fall of 1900 ACOSTA was in contact wich Individuals

of the Mow China Nows Agency In Moxico CIty, (34) TWO yOurs OnTller

he had boon in contace with Marla listhor CHAPA TiJorina (801-07010),

formor XGs agont who was at char elmo in contact with the Chinono Communints

In Mexico City, (32)

6) Podro Manuel JOBUs TUNRAZAS GUOTTOTO (201-47252)

DOBs 22 JUnO SUES, Moxico City

TERRAZAS 18 a journalint, primary school toacher, and las

been a member of the PEM Mince 1940, lo vus tha Ulrector of la yos do

Moxico from 1043-38 whon he see renoved by she V'CM Contral Committoo for

his Kovisionise actlilties, (10)

llo in a mombor of the farty a National

Secrotarine, the Pronidium, and the Follticad Commianson, (45) A50%

1063 ho was a mombor of the National Comnietoo of the MaN and of the

Contral Camposina Independionto (CCI), (47) le was one of the chiof

SECRET

:

*3,1

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECKLT

=7.

organizirs of the Frente Llectoral del Pueblo (FEP). (46) (47)

TERRAZAS has been described as "one of the most

chergetic,

aggressive, and dogmatically orthodox cE the PCM's loaders:". (45) ilo

has made numerous trips to the UssK and Bloc countries, Cuba, and has

visited Communist China. lo reportedly was a graduato of the lavana

school for agitition in 1902. (45) In September 1900 he was in tho

USSR

where he was reportodly to remain for one your to attend the CP training

school. (49)

TERRAZAS supportod the program approved by the Tri-Continontal

Conference, lavana, 1966, which stressed the need of unity among rovo.

lutionary forcos to defont imperialism, if nocessary through armed

revolution. (45)

TERRAZAS hes boon in contact with Narciso BASSOLS (201-56987),

suspoct Sovior agent. (50)

7) Jose Maria ROURA Covallos

DPOB: 28 November 1918, David, Panama.

ROURA has been a momber of the Communist Party of Ecumdor (PCE)

mince circa 1956, At that time he was a membor of the PCE Executive.

Committee and Secretary General of the Pichincha Provincial Committeo.

.. In May 1968 ROUPA was arrestod while attempting to bring approximatoly

$25,000 into Ecuador from Communist China, (The money was allegodly

counterfeir U, S. curroncy that ROURA had recolved from the chinese

Communists.) The sumo month he wan expolled from the PCE on ground that

ho travoiod to Communist China without PCs permission, (71) In Novembor

1063 No Has oxllod Erom lcuador and took up comporary residence with a

group of Ecuadorean exilen in bolovin. In the spring of 1964 RUURA was

in Uruguay, having returnod from prague, and conmundat chine where he

roporceddy rocelod spocial training. (72) In Mugust 1904 ho had rocuriod

to licunior and was olocrod to the contral Commiccoo of tho hord-line

ARcelun of the POU (ECULVIURIA fACtION), AS Of JANUAry 1907 HOURA WOMA

mombor of the socretarias of than LCHUVURRIA Caccion. (73)

Subject was an contact with ROUlA In Quito, lobruary 1002. (1)

BECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

- 8 .

8) Eumundo JARDON Arzate (201- 102937)

DOB: 13 May 1923, Calimiyo, Mexico.

JARDON was one of the founders of the Pariido Obrero

Campesino Mexicano (POC!) in 1940. He was a member of its Vational

Directorate until 1957 when he voluntarily relliquished his pogition

due to a difference of opinion with twu other members. (74) He was

recruited by WOFIRM in March 1957, but was terminated in June 1958 due

to lack of production

and his obvious desire to break contact. (74) (75)

(COMMENT: Although he was recruited under the guise of working for the

International Workers Movement (INM), dater contact indicated that JARDON

suspocted ho was in contact with a NOLADY Intolligence Service. (76)

In 1901 JARDON becamo Director of Prensa Latina (PL) in

Noxico City, In 1907 ho was dismissed from this position by Orlando

FUNDORA Lopoz, Cuban Goneral Virector of Pl. It 1s believed that his

dismissal was a result of his failure to fully publish the CASTRO tirade

against the Venezuelan Communist Party In March 1967. JARDON subsequently

became Director of Politica, which was on the verge of closing down in

September 1967, again leaving JARDON jobless.

In AugusE 1964 JARDON was reported to be part of a

channel in Mexico Cley to steor crainees desiring to go to cuba into

contact with the "right peoplo." (25)

subject arrangod a meeting wii: JARION In 1962, In June

of she same geer JARDON was in contact wich Teresa PROENZA (301-291531),

(97) (500 Item 15G9)

D) TeresA PROENZA (201-291531)

DPOB: 11 March 1008, lavana.

Teresa PROUNZA 1U N CPC membor, active da Conmuniue fronto

organdantion, and a serongly suspoct sovlot agent. (01) F88n 1954-57

she was socrutary and housekoepor for logo ALFARO Rivera. L$ 1260 she

became the Cultural Metacho In the Cuban limbandy in Noxico Cily whoro ahe

handled Matson between the Cuban limbunny and the Workers Unlvernity of

Mexico (UOM), (01) Whilo In Noxico she was in froquent contui? with

many vEM mombors und Surdulo, ducdudlon Narelso-Bidded (201: 0107),

ISnACHO ACOSTA (201-108007), Pedro MaNUOl TURBAZAS GUerTOrO (661-47252),

SECRET

---

## Page 10

.....

SECRET

= 9 -

Le)s SUASIZ. Lopez, Yuri; Nikolayevich PAPOROV (201-82485), inown KüB,

and aleksey Prokhorovich ANTIPOV (201-65425), Suspect NOB.

PROENZA is a lesbian who at one time was living with Maria

Elena VAZQUE? Gomez, one of Mexico's foremost female Communists and

suspect sorset agent. She was also reported to havo "unnatural re-

lationships" with Doloros Olmedo de PHILLIPS and Adelina ZENDLJAS.

In 1944 she was dismissed from her job as Cuban Cultural

Attacho and setirmod to Cuba, prosumably as the result of a personal

onmity with R'ul 201. She workod for awhilo as a toacher in the Orionte

infersity. In 1905 she was arrestod and accused of embezzlement, al-

though it is Leilored that sho was actully accused of boing an American

agent. She was hold in a concentration camp at Santa Maria del Mar.

10) John Alexandr Cartness RETTIE: (201-739202)

DPOB: 21 sevember 1925.

RETTIE 1s a Sermor British Intelligonce officer who is sus.

pected of being a Soviet arent. While serving in Moscow he was the subject

of a morel, financial, and napionase blackmail attompt by the soviets.

RETTlE reported only the osplonage aspect of this attompt. These allo-

entions led to his doparture from Moscow. (54)

CLICa 1960 RETTlE was in Mexico Cley, ostensibly as a journallot.

In 1969 he was recalled to bondon for Interrogation sogarding his connections

with CPM members and suspect is individunis from the USSR and Yugoslavia, (55)

interrogstion daterminod that ALThIl had probably been undor Soyle: develop

, mont since 1947. (56) Although dofinito proof was lacking. RUTTIl Was

retired from nctive vorvico. Yoe in March lude ho was allowed to return

to Mexico Cley as a guide for the Balalah Overseas Ungineoring Servico

BUrORU, (59) In NOvembor 196% HUTTII was reportodly a teacher in Coylon, (57)

11) Carlos Runne CHAPLUK (201-229412)

POB: Minak, USSI, Natusalized Moxican clilion.

CHAPLUs 1s che owner of the l'laya Bungalows Mucol In lamonada,

This hotos has boon fraquently unod by she sovluca at lonet since 1050. (97)

CHAPLUK accompunded POPOrT (see derm 15612) when he entertalned

phree sovdor visitors in 1u58, (deo nino Item 11 o 7) Subsequent to the

Soviets' V181E, CHAPLUK contaciod the Soulet ambassy In Mexico Clty 8o-

sarding a visie to his solativos du the USSR. (08) In June 1U58 CHAPLUK

departed Mexico to visit hla brother in lingland. His passport contained

---

## Page 11

14-00000

°., 1702: if 81911 pen page 89 per

HARLT

• 10 -

12) Niguel POlUFF (201-286055)

POPOFF is a member of the Molilane sect which settled in

Colenia Guad lupe near Ensenado circa 1930. He is i Kichfield Oil

distributor in Ensenada.

In 1958 he was visited by three Soviots from the Soviet

Embassy in Moxico City - Nikolay Vasilyevich ASINOV (201-106469),

Known AGR, Pavel Antonovich YATSKOV (201-120123), Known KGB, and

Yevgenly Mikhaylovich POPOV (201-87096), Known KGB. POPOFf and his son

showed the Soviets around the Ensenada much in the same manner that thoy

entertained Subject and KOSTIKOV in 1963, (Sce also Item 11 • 7)

13) Carlos PADILLA Perez

PADILLA 1s the Quito manager of Prensa Latina. (UOI: 1902) (11)

In 1960 his namo was on a list of persons regularly receiving money from

the Embassy of Cuba in Quito. (63)

Subject had breakfast with PAVILlA at the Alcron loiel when

he was in Quito in Fobruary 1902. They later went to the Libreria Nueva

• Cultura (PCE bookstore) with Carlos DOMINGUEZ Baer and two unidentified

Ecuadoreans. PADILLA has roportedly roturned to Cuba. (11;

' 14) John Alfred ALIUS (201-54192)

DPOB: 24 September 1925, Chemnita, Gormany,

AbIUS is a journalist, le Immigrated to Canada with his

paronts In 1930 where choy became naturalised citizons. From 1940-49 ho

was in Brsz1l with the Normon Mission; 1952-53, In Europe with the

Canadian NATO delegation, 1053-54, managor of the United Pross Association

In Poru, (02) In Sinuary 1967 ho was chief of the Unitod Fross Inter-

national in Moxies City whore ho was in business and social contact with

Sovlo: Jase corruspondone Valentin Ivanovich KUCIliRUV (201-758017),

Suspect KOb,

16) Lula SUARE? LOpOR

BUARLiE do a journalist for Slomoro, « Noxican bofelat magazino. (51)

In Pobruary 1068 5U11z ves In lavana, schodulod to depart for Noncow,

Pokingo and lunole le Hill copersolo be henchine tHe Joba Da Shis 851p-

sending to Ill lloraldo tie more urgont, timely noma, and to Siompro that

of a more literary naturo. (51)

SECRBT

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRLT

- 11-

16) Cler-entina BASSOLS

Clementina Batalla de BASSOLS, lawyer,Is the widow of

Nartiso BASSULS (201-56987), prominent leftist, former Mexican Ambassador

to the USSR, and suspect Soviet agent. (12) BASSOLS is active in the

PCM und PCM front activities. She was President of the Noxican

Promotional Committeo for the First Latin American Women's Congress,

1959; Prosidont of the Instituto do Amistad y de Intercambio Cultural

Moxicano-Hungaro (INICNI), 1960; leador of tho Moxican delegation to the

Congross of Mexican Women in lavana, 1963; membor of the Executive and

Coordination Commission of the Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional (MLN)

until 1965 when she reportedly resigned to holp organize the Permanent

National Committee of Solidarity with Viotnam. (13) (14) (15) (16) (17)

In 196% she was Honorary President of the National Council of tho

National Union of Mexican Women (UNMM), and was reportodly to attend

the World Pence Council in Moscow. (18)

17) Guadalupe Perez MACIA

DOB: 1929.

Guadalupe Pere% MACIA is the wife of Fidel MACIA who has

been a PCM member since circa 1955. She, too, han beon active in PCM

ActivIties for several yours, In 1959 she was Secretary of the Coahulla

State Committeo of the PCM, (19) In 1963 she was one of two dolegatos

solocted to ropresent the Conhuila Undon Democrutica do Mujores Mexicanas

(UDMM) al she Congresa In lavana (50o aiso Clomontina BASSOLS: Item

16 € 10). (20) In 1950 she was Socrotary of the Coahulla UDMM. (21)

10) Nune SIMANOVICH (201-750514)

DPOH: 1012, Klov, USSR

BIMANOVICII arrived intoxico In 1018, 8n 1845 lo morod from

Moxico City to insenada where he bocame the ownor of a curlo shop. lin

mother and youngor brother are selli living in the UNSi. (UOII 1004) (38)

SIMANOVICHI IN En LNURGO sOUrCe In Unsonada. (04)

In September 1063 Suhject and KUSTINOV contacted SIMANOVICH At

"he curso shop in annonúu, They atated that they wore Interested in pier

chasing the shop. KOSTIKOV askod SIMNOVICh! if ho still had relativos

SECRET

... ..

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

• 12 .

living in the USSR. When SIMANOVICH! replied in the affirmative,

KOSTIKOV stated that he could easily arrange travel documents and

finuncial help if nceded. (38)

19) Kobert Maurice KATZ (201-104222)

DPOB: 19 September 190%, France.

KATZ was a journalist with the Asence Frunce-Presse in Moxico

City from 1946 untll circa 1964. (41) In 1904 he was President of the

Foreign Correspondents Association in Moxico City.

In January 1900 ho

was reportedly in lavano. (42)

From 1955-59 KATZ was in contact with Boris Aleksandrovich

KAZANTSEV (201-028975), Nnown NGB, then first Secrotary. (43) On one

occasion he called KAZANTSIV to report a mattor of "mutual interest"-

offoring tho soulets a teletype link with France-PreSSe. KAZANTSLY 340rS.

that the Sorlets were not interested at that time. (CONNENT: The Station?

at that timo, August 1957, had unverified reports that Pravda reprosentativo

Vasily Mikhaylovich CHICHNOV (201-207254), SuspectRIS, probably KGB, Was

using the Agonco France-Presso antenna.)

26! Enriqueta GONEZ • probably leontieul wich linriquese COMi

Cortes.

Enriquora GOMIX Corces 1a belloved to be a music professor.

She einims to have urieton a book entitire Paginas Musicalos. In 1959 sho

was in contact with Stanislaw RACZKA (201-121224), who was astached to

the Poliah Logacion Pross and Prepaganda section, regarding his opinion

on her book. (44)

21) Mario GILal

Olll, of Pronsa latina, was mombor of cho Honorary "residlum

of the Second Congross of Communist Youth of Mexico (SCM) In Februnry

1067 (30)

22) Francisco LHIVA

In 1050 LUIVA's nomo was among icundoreen Communinte pronoting

an oll workors' meride in luerto Liborzad, lle was also distod an ons of

- She Communioto responalble for tho growth and paupagande uf the pet da

the Peninsula sone of Guayas Province, (58) (8U) In 1061 LaiVA underwent

SECRET

1/pl

---

## Page 14

SI CRIT

'- 13-

training courses in Chile. The same year he began work for the Confeder.

ation of lorkers of fachincha (riP). (oü) lie attended the Horld

Federation of Trade Workers mecting in Moscow in 1961. (11)

23) JOrgO ICAZA Coronel

ICAZA is a well-known Communist writer and novclist who

worked for the Casa de la Cultura Ecuatoriana lo 1954. Also in that

yoar he headod the "List D, Union Domocration de Quito," a PCE front-

organization. (8) (9) 11 1960 ICAZA .as a writer and diroctor of the

National Library, and one of sixty Ecuadoroons attendig the Third

Annivorsary of the Cuban Revolution in lnvana. (10)

When Subject was in Quito in Fobruary 1962, he had dinner

with ICAZA at the lotel Alcaron. (11)

=9=9

---

## Page 15

• SECRET

- 14 .

19. SCURCES:

1) DBA 54066, 7 Cctober 1963

2) IMMW 12912, 17 September 1964

3) NEXI 1334, 22 October 1964

MEXI 1323, 21 Cotober 1964

5)

HNM 5996, 25 October 1961

6)

HMMW 8:42, 3 March 1960

7 DEE 54435, 3 August 1960

8) "

1E2900, A November 1954

9)

SO 710: 10 November 1954

10) HEQA 454A, 5 JanuATy 1962

11) HEQA 4596, 2 March 1962

12) INM 4889, 19 April 1960

13)

HMM, 4561, 30 October 1959

14)

HMM 5328, 14 December 1960

15) HZP 5768, 15 March 1963

16) DBB23835, 23 September 1965

17)

DBE 68173, 28 December 1966

- 18)

HMM 11339, 26 September 1967

89) [iMY 769817, 17 July 1959

20)

INY 850, 17 January 1963

81) (HMY /1280, 30 Novembor 1966

23)

HMM 662, 3 Ray 19S4

23) HMM 1471, 12 March 1950

24)

13M 3551, 18 JUNe 1058

25)

DaN 37062, 24 January 1006

26)

HNM 1152, 12 May 1967

370

HiMW 7125, 18 Docember 1058

29)

TDCS 3/407,205, 14 January 1901

10)

tiMMA 23602, 11 June 100%

50)

MAXICO 7140, 20 April 1006

38) (HZPA710403, 26 August 1060

HMM 06134, 17 January 1062

33) MEXI 3111, 21 Octobor 1965

SECRUT

5/p

---

## Page 16

SECRET

- 15 -

•1 INMA 30780, 8 December 1900

35). DFB 71447, 17 August 1956

36) DFB 72054, 15 April 1959

37)

UFB 52198, 24 June 1960

38) DBA 63288, 7 February 1964

39) HNM 11042, 2 March 1967

40) MEXICO CITY 8085, 29 July 1966

41) HMM 1459, 23 February 1956

42) IMMA 24449, 6 October 196d

43)

UMMA 103926, 30 April 1959

44) HMMA 13249, 3 July 1959

45)

HMMA 20612, 15 July 1965

46)

NEXI 4319, 26 Aprl 1963

47)

DBB 95465, 3 October 1967

48)

HMM 3897, 10 Decendor 1958

49)

HIMMA 30084, 19 September 1966

SO) HIMM 3920, 24 December 1958

53) MEXICO 5615, 17 December 1965

52) MEXICO 4471, 1Z February 1968

53) MEXI 6531, 12 MARCH 1966 "-

34)

AMMA 30280, 11 October 1966

MIX! 5174, 27 June 1963

56)

MIX! 4775, 29 May 1963

57) COrIA 08692, 2 November 1967

88) Ql0]1174, 12 March 1059

B) LUBC 2208, 30 Septomber 1958

60)

114Q 2530, 15 Septomber 1001

61)

INMW 9478, 9 Sobruary 1901

68) [HiA 307, da February 1954

63) (W:0]2170, 2 Docomber 1900

64)

DBA 00858, 21 May 1964

65) DBA 54060, 9 Deceber 1063

00) LLUMATO6DÓA, 11 October 100u

67) DHA 43605, 27 May 1063

SECRET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SECRET

• 16.

68) KMO 299, 13 tsy 1959

69) A-3110,221, 4 August 1958

701 TUMOW 228, 23 September 1058

71) QUITO 5114 (IN 46115)

-21-100

72) LQUITO 6837, 29 December 1964

21-12

73) [QuITO]9889, 12 January 1967

74) UMMA 6518, 1 April 1957

75) (LDCW) 2033, 16 March 1967

16) MEXICO EUTY 3962, 30 Docemhor 1967

77) (BUENOS AIRES]9897, 30 January 1968

z1-28

78) (BUENOS AIRES]9864, 25 January 1968

SECRUT

---

