# 104-10429-10093

## Page 1

1104-70429-0093]

TOP SEORET

EYES ONLY

25 October 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

Director of Central Intelligence

Yuriy I. NOSENKO

The attached memorandum describes the techniques

used and the results obtained in the first phase of the

The most significant

testing pertained to. Subject's story on Lee Harvey OSWALD.

Subject's reactions: to the polygraph indicate that he

never heard of OSWALD until after President Kennedy's

assassination in November 1963, that he was not an active

participant in the case as claimed and that his whole

story on OSWALD was prepared by the KGB and given to us

at their direction.

Other areas of strong reaction refer to Subject's

suspected contact with the KGB while in Geneva in 1962 and

1964 and to Abidian and the Pushkin Street drop (key factor

in the PENKOVSKIY compromise). Subject became very upset

at questioning on this subject and refused to discuss his

own alleged involvement in the case.

We also touched upon

NOSENKO's parental background, periods of imprisonment

homosexuality.

• His reactions here all pointed to clear-

cut contradictions in the story he has told us.

3.: There still remain several areas of interest and

importance to be covered with the techniques used to date.

We expect to complete this line of questioning by 28 October.

This first phase has enabled us to confirm our

analyses of key aspects of this case.

More important is

fact that NOSENKO knows he is reacting in sensitive

areas and this is worrying him because he

is not sure how

much we know or how we learned it.

NOSENKO's reactions

have given us hope that we may by

this procedure have begun

to strike home.

We do not know what it is that keeps this

man sitting month after month in his present situation.

We speculate that one factor may be confidence that the

KGB will get him out.

Related to this may be the thought

that the KGB has CIA so deeply penetrated that it would be

unhealthy for hin to confess. Our current line of interro-

gation, expanded and used even more forcefully, might

TOP SEGRET

EYES ONLY

F81-0351 x) g, eury na. 1181

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TOP SEONET

EYES ONLY

-2.

break down some of his obstacles to confession by showing

us in a different and stronger posture.

We to go beyond the inne main hey so mos

phase of the interrogation.

We plan to continue the inter-

rogation in the hope of getting a confession; written plans

will be submitted when they are more definitely formulated.

David E. Murphy

Chief, Soviet

Bloc Division

Attachment

CC:

Acting DDP (w/attach)

Chief, Cl (w/attach)

Director of Security (w/attach)

TOP SECROT

EYES

---

## Page 3

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

24 Octobar 1966

This is an interim report on progress to date in

the new phase in the interrogation of NOSENKO, which began

on 18 October 1966, and covers the first four days, 18-21

October. After a break, 1t will resume on 25 October.

Our aims in this phase of the interrogation have

been limited in view of the possibility of losing accesa

to NOSENKO, we have sought (a) to strengthen our basic report,

now. in preparation, by testing his story further, clarifying

points of confusion and revealing new contradictions, and

by polygraph examinations of key areas, and (b) to lead

toward his eventual confession by directly exploiting our

hypotheses about the true background of NOSEnKo and this

KGB operation,

to convey to NOSINKO the impression that we

know more than before, that we possess irrefutable proof

of his guilt and that ha has no prospecta for release.

refrained from doing this in earlier phases of the interro

gation, but at this point there seems little to lose.

The first four days have shown that the method is

useful. NOSENKO again proved a good reactor on polygraph.

he seened disturbed by our knowledge and the special areas

of interest we revealed, and we were able to develop In-

portant new information, contradictions and Indications

Method

Our basic approach has been to question NOSENKO in

specific terms on selected and detailed aspects of the story

he has told to date. We gave him no explanation for our

renewal of the interrogation, nor has he asked for any.

Our

questions have been pointed and detailed and neither require

nos perit long winded answersg they do not seek new infor

mation but are clearly designed to check information he pro

vided earller, our questions are slanted to build up the

impression that they are based on data we have learned In

dependently: The subject matter is taken up in a predeter.

mined order designed for maximum Impact on NOSENKO.

Inter-

rogation sessions are followed by polygraph examinations on

the matters covered in the interrogation and/or other topies..

Somewhat more time is spent on direct polygraph examination

than on interrogation.

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES QUEY•

Bichlights to Date

5.

OSWALD Cases

The opening session was a polygraph

examination: conducted by Nicholas Stolaken, whom NOSENKO

recognized as his earlier polygraph operator.

ing was devoted entirely to Lee Harvey OSWALD and NOSENKO's

role in the OSwALD case.

We hit this point before any other

in order (a), to permit clean polygraph testing on this key

matter without having disturbed him with other questions,

and (b), to get over to NOSENKO the gravity of our concern

on this matter of highest state interest. The operator's

conclusions weres

Subject was not personally or actually in-

volved in the OSWALD case from 1959 while OSWALD was

In the Soviet Union.

subject received special instructions (fron

the KGB about the OSWALD case and what to tel An

erican authorities about 1t.

case both "before and asters the Kennedy assassinata?

" the Kennedy assassinatior

was partly for the purpose of supporting and sub

stantiating Subject's cover story "legend".

Subject heard of OSWALD (as a case) only after

anticipant sa 1963 as he indyeates, ast as probabl

3. bur was probabl

briefed on the case by a KGB officer.

6o

Geneva Meetings:

rogation and polygraph testing to the Geneva periods, June

1962 and January-February 1964•

order because there are clear signs of important deception

behind it and it offers us special opportunities to suggest

Inside information which in fact derive from observation and

deduction.

Pavel SHAKHOV!

NOSENKO's story of his "investi-

gation" of SHAKHOV, a Soviet delegation member whom he

said was suspected in 1962 to be an American agent,

17 detail.

The new data we obtained tend

to confirm that this is a serious part of NOSENKO g

TOP SEGRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 5

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES UNLY

30

message.

SHAKHOV'g background in fact suggests that

he is actually a KGB officers his contact in Geneva

with David MARK. a former CIA cooptes in Moscow,) Is

at the center of NOSeiko's story.

We slanted our

questions to suggest Knowledge that SHAKHOV IS a KGB

officer (not a KGB Investigation suspect) and that

we may know of some of his important operational

NOSENKO was inconsistent in his story

and reacted significantly under polygraph examina-

We are currently tracing new names and data

and are re-examining the significance of this matter.

bo KCB Control in Genevas

NOSENKO reacted very

strongly and consistently to the question of whether

or not he had been sent to Geneva by the KGB to con

tact cA, whether he was receiving KG3 direction

there,

and on related questions,

including some re-

lated to his ostensible investigation of Pavel SHAKHOV.

U.S. Personnel and Installations in Geneva:

NOSENKO was interrogated on his earlier story that

he had seen in Geneva in 1964 the file on KGB activity

against American Installationg in Geneva (KCH cryptonym

"SKORPION") •

His version this time conflicted with

his 1964 version but contained the same message, that

the weak and understaffed KGB in Geneva had little

Interest, limited facilities and no success in opera

tions against the Americans and had practically no

Idea of the identitles of CIA personnel there.

addition, NOSENKO reacted to polygraph questions

related to whether the kos had told him the name of

his CIA case officers.

On the other hand, he did not

react to the names of the then COS Switzerland and

cos Geneva, which suggests that he was not told them

(these names were buried in lists of names).

KgB fersonner in Genevas hostiko's answers

concerning Alexandr KISLOV conflicte

with certain detaila earlier reported including KIS

IOV's role in the AlCHITCHAr case.

He seemed disturbed

by the questioning on KISLOV and finally said he saw

no reason to answer any more of them.

However, his

polygraph reactions did not suggest that he was as

sensitive to KISLOV as to other Individuals and matters

covered in the same series of questions.

We also asked,

with the polygraph, whether he was withholding anything

TOP SEGRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 6

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES CHLY

concerning his alleged agent oleg GRINEVSKY, an

official of the Soviet delegation, his reactions

suggested that he may genuinely be ignorant of

GRINEVSKTY"s KGB activities.

at the time. He had earlier

said that his dally access to the KGB Residency In

Geneva In 1964 was due to his freguent contacts with

Mikhail S. TSYMBAi, this time he sald that he only

saw TSYMBAI, twice in Geneva in 1964 and falled to

mention a Sunday meeting with TSYMBAl which he had

reported to us at the time it occurred.

This leaves

open the whole question of how NOSENKO can explain

his daily access to the Residency, which he himself

now says - evidently on the basis

of what he has

learned from our previous interrogations - is not

normally permitted...

This will be covered in further

questioning.

7.Matters Related to the PENKOVSKIY Compromises

8e:.

John ABIDIAN a. Visit to the pushkin Street

Deaddrop?

NOSINKO reacted with special sensitivity

and Intensity when asked in a polygraph test whether

he had been instructed to tell CIA about ABIDIAN'S

visit to the Pushkin Street deaddrop.

In addition.

he refused for the first time to aiscuss his own

participation in the incident, adamantly claiming

that he does not remember when or even whether he

visited the drop or whether he read reports on

surveillance coverage of it after ABIDIAN®s visit.

(He had earlier said he visited the drop at least

twice, immediately after ABIDIAN's visit, he des

cribed the location and named the KCB officers he

went with.)

In sharp contrast to his reluctance

to discuss his personal role was his unhesitating

and confident response to other aspects of the

Pushkin Street drop storys he reiterates that

ABIDIAN was under full time, double strength sur-

veillance throughout his tour in Moscow and that

ABIDIAN was surveilled to the drop.

He now adds,

for the first time, that the KGB concluded that the

drop had been initially found by a U.S. tourist or

delegation member and that ABIDIAN was merely check-

ing out its suitability for some eventual use.

(In

fact, PENKOVSKlY proposed the drop and ABIDIAN went

there only in response to the agreed telephonic

signal triggered by persons unknown, not by PENKOV-

SKIY.)

TOP SEBRET

EYES CHLY

---

## Page 7

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

5.

NOSENKO was again queried on

bugged restaurant meeting with

an

Jofficer, whose name he gave as

in 1962 andl

JIn 1964•

He could not clarity

why he had confused the namey.

Since we now know

through Greville WINNE that the Soviets were inter

ested as late as early 1963 In clarifying PENKOV

SKIY's allusion in a bugged conversation in 1961

we belleve that NOSENKO's 1962 vergion

was a KCB fishing expedition. However, NOSENKO

did not react to a polygraph question concerning

the name

he was given a wrong name for the

arong name not himself know that

officer.

nor why.

Admiral VORONTSOY; It had been speculated

that when NOSENKO mentioned in June 1962 meetings

the name of his "big friend" in the naval GRU,

Admiral VORONTSOV, he may have been fishing for

comments from us concerning Marshal VARENTSOV.

PENKOVS TY's protector.

querted this time about

Admiral VORONTSOV, NOSENKO said that he had never

met him and had no personal or similar connection?

he seems to have completely forgotten ever having

claimed a personal relationship.

NOSENKO was asked about

whom he had earler claimed to have handled

1960-61 in Moscow as an agent against thel

NOSENKO again said ha first met

1n 1960• We told NOSENKO that

Itold us

that he had not met NOSENKO until 1962.

NOSENKO denied

We then added to his concern by telling him (untruth-

fullye but with a reasonable estimate of the true situation)

also said that the KGB had told him to say

he first met NOSENKO In 1960.

When polygraphed NOSENKO rE-

acted strongly and consistently to questions on the subject.

these reactions and our follow-up may well bear on the ques

ion of whether

was actually recruited by the KGB,

an issue we have rev ewer with the FBI. NOSENKO must be

concerned because he now says that the

case was

primarily GRyNAZoy's, not his own, although he, NOSENO

"supervised" it.

Thus disappears

the sole case that NOSENA

has claimed as his very own.

Identity and Personal Background, One of the basic

questions underlying this operation is NOSENKO's real identity

and personal background. There are many indications, reported

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 8

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

"'6.

earlier, that he has spent time in prison and that he is

not in fact a KGB officer, similarly, his stories of his

early school and military service are inconsistent and

unbelievable. We are trying in this interrogation to

clarify this important point.

Among the points covered

so far are the followings

Identitys NOSINKO was questioned extensively

on the polygraph concerning his identity.

serdes of tests, for

Minister of Shipbuilding Ivan NOSENKO was the father

of Yurt Ivanovich NOSENKO and was then asked whether

Minister NOSINKO was his father, similarly with

Tamara NOSENKO, his ostensible mother.

not react to the question phrased *Yuri Ivanovich

NOSENKO", but reacted consistently when asked 1f

these were his own parents. He was sensitive to

questions concerning his marriage.

(There is reason

to belteve he is not. in fact, married.)

He was also

given a series of tests asking for the first letter

of his given name. The whole alphabet was covered,

and the polygraph charts show that he became increas-

Ingly tense, culminating at the letter s (or perhaps

T) on both runs. While we recognize that testing of

this sort may not give valid results, it certainly

gets over to NOSINKO the degree of our doubt and may

even help us determine who he really is.

We wild

pursue this further, covering his patronym and family

name as we®

C.

Imprisonment

In view of the strong indica

tions that NOSENKO has apent considerable time in

prison (as reported in the past), we questioned him

on this.

He reacted strongly and consistently to the

question of whether he had been imprisoned in the USSR.

We then ran a series of tests to determine his relative

sensitivity to various types of imprisonment, various

crimes for which he may have been imprisoned, various

areas of the USSR where he may have been imprisoned,

TOP SECRET

EVES ONLY

---

## Page 9

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES, ONLY

and various years of imprisorment.

He seemed con

sistently sensitive to correctional labor. camps

as the type of prison, and to several possible

causes of imprisonments particularly homosexuality.

desertion and felony.

Interestingly enough he was

not sensitive to questions concerning imprisonment

for self-inflicted wounds despite his story that he

had shot himself in the hand during the war. He

seemed more consistently sensitive to Siberia as

the area of Imprisonment but the results were not

as clear as on other aspects of his story.

He seems

particularly sensitive to the years 1954-1956, which

Immediately preceed the perlod from 1956 onward,

when he began to appear In KCB operations-

TOP SECRET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 10

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EVES ONLY

24 October 1966

SUBJECT:

Polygraph Examination of Yuri Ivanovich HOSENKO

Concerning Lee Harvey OSHALD OR 18 October 1966

Backaround:

subject of this report is a thirty-eight year old married

male who, on 4 February 1964, established contact with United

States authorities in Geneva, Switzerland and asked for political

asy_uh.

subject was initially polygraphed on 4 April 1964 at a

covert security. location in Washiagton, D.C. suburbs (see

IND Report #67491, dated 8 April 1964).

The purpose of the

1964 polygraph interview was to establish whether subject was

a bona fide defector, or if he was a aispatched Soviet agent

sent by Soviet Intelligence on a specific mission

The con

clusion arrived at during the 1964 polygraph testing was that

Subject was attempting deceptiong that he was not a bona fide

defector, but a dispatched Soviet agent.

During the interin, April 1964 - October 1966, Subject

has undergone additional interrogation during which an attempt

was made to obtain the truth from subject, and to clarify the

many inconsistencies and discrepancies which were evident

throughout subject's version of his personal and professional

background history.

subject admitted to lying and falsifying

about some phases of his background only after long and tedius

Interrogation and after confrontation with Irrefutable facts

which subject could not argue against.

Subject has admitted

to exaggerating his own personal participation, his KCB rank.

and certain areas of his personal background.

He has not,

however, admitted deception concerning two main elements of

his KGB

operational history. even when confronted by logical

and factual contradiction in his story.

Purpose?

specific purpose of the 18 October 1966 polygraph

test was to:

fact actually involved in the OSWALD Case while OSWALD

was in the Soviet Union, or 1f his association with the

OSNALD case was only part of his cover story legend.

TOP SECRET

EVES ONLY

---

## Page 11

13-00000

TOP SESHET

EYES. ONLY

Determine if Subject was personally active

in the OSHALD case in 1963 after President Rennedy's

assassination.

Co Ascertain 1f Subject received special Instruc-

tions fron the KGB to pasa on to the American Government

regarding the ostito case.

Procedure:

The undersigned polygraphed Subject at a covert security

location on 18 October 1966 between the hours of 1305 and 1810.

The testing was conducted in the Russian language.

The specific

area covered during the 18. October polygraph interview dealt

with questions concerning the Lee Harvey OSWALD case and sub

ject's Inowledge and association with the OSNArD case in the

The series of questions asked of subject about

the OSWALD case was based entirely on the information

subject

gave regarding OSWALD.

subject Immediately recognized the undersigned ag the

polygraph officer who had administered the previous polystaph

test, and recalled the specific date of the test, 4 April 1964.

subject was told that he would again participate in another

polygraph intervier. Subject's polygraph patterns revealed a

certain amount of mscular movement during some of the phases

of testing, however, not withstanding this evidence it 1s the

opinion of the undersigned that there are polygraphic Indica-

tions of attempted deception by the subject to some of the

specific questions asked of him (see conclusion).

When Subject

was challenged and accused of deception, he would repeat that

he was telling only the truth now, and was telling the truth

during his last polygraph test.

when he was confronted with

the fact that he had lied to specific questions during his

1964 polygraph, and that these lies were subsequently con-

clusively proven to be lies, when he himself later (1965-1966)

admitted that he had fabricated about portions of his back

ground story. he admitted that this was

so, but that the lies

were minor and regarding personal areas of his background only.

He justified his past deception on the ground that he did so

only to embelish hia personal background to improve his image

in our eyes.

Discussion: which took place during the polygraph testing

and subject's additions to and revisions of his previous

statements are Incorporated in the SB report.

TOP SEBRET

EVES ONLY

---

## Page 12

13-00000

TOP SECRET

EYES LY

In analyzing Subject's polygraph charts, polygraphic

evidence or indication of deception was considered from the

standpoint of consistency and significance (strength) of the

reaction.

Reactions found to exist on nom or unimportant lead-in

questions, especially if these reactions are inconsistent, are

not noted as such in this report.

There is no logica. explan

ation for Subject's sensitivity to this catagory of questions

other than the possibility that some of these questions nay

be more meaningful to Subject than we are at present aware.

or that Subject is ecquainted with the polygraph technigue

and is attempting to create false, controlled reactions to

lead-in and harmless questions in an attempt to mislead poly-

graph analysis.

However, Subject's reactions to important questions when

noted as "reaction" are, in the opinion of the undersigned,

definite indications of deception.

The following are questions asked during the polygraph

testing, Subject's answers and his reactions to the questions.

Series. No. 1

1. Has Loe Harvey. OS:ALD ever 1n the Soviet Union?

Answer: Jes. (No reaction)

2. Nas OSWAID in the Soviet Union from 1959 to 19613

Answer: Yes. (No reaction)

3.

Did you receive special instructions about what to

toll the Americans about the OSNALD case?

Anawers. No. (Reaction)

4 Did you personally meet OSAID?

Answers. No. (No reaction)

5. Was OSWALD. recruited by KGB as an agent?

Answers No. (lo reaction)

6.

Here you glad that President Kennedy was killed?

Answer.. No.

(Reaction),

TOP SOM

EYES UNTY

---

## Page 13

13-00000

TOP SERRET

EYES ONLY

7.

Other than what you told me,

aid you actively participate

in the OSwAid case prior to 19633

AnsWers 10.

(No reaction)

8o

Did you see a photograph of OSHALD in 19637

Answers Yes. (Reaction)

9. Was Marina PRUSAKOVA an agent of KGB?

Answers No, (No reaction)

9a. Before her marriage to OSWALD?

Answers. No. (Reaction)

9b. After her marriage to OSHALD?

Answer: No. (No reaction)

10. Did you personally neet Marina PRUSAKOVA?

Answers 10. (Reaction)

1. Did OSWALD have any kind of contact with the 13th Otde

f the 1at Chier Directorate

Answer:

No. (No reaction)

12. DId KGB prepare OSWALD for committing assassinations?

AnSwer!: No. (No reaction)

13.

Nas OSHAWD prepared (trained) by KG3 to kill President

Kennedy?

Answer: No.: (No reaction)

24.

Did you hear of OSWALD (case) prior to President

Kennedy's assassination?

Answer.

Yes. (Reaction)

Subject's most significant reactions on this test series were

to guestions

3 and 24 - other reactions

of a lesser significance

were evident to questions 6. 8, 93. and 10.

NOP S7027

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 14

13-00000

TOP SEGRET

DES OWLY

5.

Series Nor 2

20. Is the name OSWALD fanillar to you?

Anawers Yes.

(No reaction

210

pid you ever read the OSWAlD case?

Inswers Yes. (No resction)

22.

Was this the full and official KGS case on OSWALD?

Answers Yes. (Reaction)

23. Did you give us eny lad of information about OSWALD?

Answer: Yes. (No reaction)

24. Did you hear of OSWALD (case) prior to President

Kennedy's assassination?

Answers Yes.

(Reaction)

24a. Did you hear of OSwALD (case) only after President

Kennedy's death?

Angwers Instead of the usual yes or no answer. Subject

answered "Before and 'after".

when the question

was repeated, he again answered "Before and

after".

Only when the quastion was asked a

third time on a subsequent test did he answer

"NO"®

(Reaction)

(subject reacted when he

answered "Before and after" and when he

answered "No".

25. DId KG3 consider OSWALD abnormal?

Answer: Yes. (No reaction)

26.

As far as you know, did Marina OStrID know about her

husband's plan to kill President Kennedy?

Anawer: do. (No reaction)

27.

To your knowledge did OSwALD talk with a KCB officer

in Medco?

Answer: No.

(No reaction)

TOP SOMET

EYES 021/

---

## Page 15

13-00000

TOP SECRET

28. DId OSWALD return to the United States in 1961?

Answers Yes.

(No reaction)

Subject's reaction

to this question was inconsistent when he

answered "Yes", hence the

(No reaction)

notat don.

However, It 13 noteworthy that

Subject did not attempt to correct the

date of OSwALD's departure to the U.S.

OSWALD returned to the U.S. in June 1962

and not 1n 1961.

29 .

Is your contact with the OSwALD case part of your

legend (cover story)?

Answer:

No.. (Reaction)

30. Did you really take part in the OSwALD case in 1959?

raswer: Yes. (Reaction)

Subject's most significant reactions were to questions 22,

24, 242.

29 and 30.

series: No. 3

idditional pertinent questions included among those already

asked in Series No. 1 and M0. 23

16°

Did you personally order RASTRUSIN, In 1959, to collect

material on OSHAID?

Answers Yes. (Reaction)

15.

Did you personally talk on the V. Ch. with Minsk

about the OSWALD case 1д 1963?

Answers: Jes. (Reaction)

1.7м..

were you instructed on the OSwALD case by one of the

KCB operational officers?

answer:

No. (Reaction)

Ao. Did the KGB instruct you to tell us OSino was a bad

shot 7.

Ansver.

No.

(No Reaction)

TOP SOMET

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 16

13-00000

TOR GOODE!

3IS OLY

18.

Do you know definitaly that OswArD was not of

operational: Interest to XGE?

Answer.

Yes. (Reaction)

Co.

Did KGB give the OswAlds any kind of help ir

thetr departure from the Sovlet Unioni

Answers No. (No reaction)

3A.

Did you receive special lastructions from KE

about what to tell the Americans about OSAID?

Answers No. (Reaction)

Subject's reactions to the questions ao Indicated were about

equal in consistency and significance.

Conclusion.

On the basis of an analysis of the polygraph charts obtained

duriag subject's polygraph interrogation and testing during the

13 October 1966 session, 1t 1s the undersigned's opinion thats

Subjoct was not personally or actually

Involved in the OSwAID case from 1959 to 1961 while

OSWALD waa In the Soviet Union.

b.

on the case by a KGB officer.

Subject received special Instructions (fron

KGB) about the OSWAND case and what to tall American

authorities about it.

Nicholas & Stolaken

---

