# 104-10213-10263

## Page 1

104-10213-10263

2 am. 8.0

I CRET SAISTIE

25 August 1976

AEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

Gary M. Breneman

Assistant General Counsel

SUBJECT: Request for Agency Assistance in the Death of John Rosselli

1. Senator Gary W. Hart (D-Colo.) has involved the Senate Select

Committee on Intelligence in the investigation of the murder of John Rosselli

(Washir gion Post, 25 August 1976, p. 125, copy attached). In addition, the

Director has net with Hart and stated that the Agency would cooperate in the

investigation of Rosselli's death within the bounds of its charter and its

statutory charge to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized

disclosure.

2. At the request of the Committee, Mr. Tom White, OLC, and the under

signed met with two homicide detectives from the Dade County sheriff's office

at 12: 30 p.m., 24 August, in the offces of the Committce in the Dirksen

Building. The two detectives were Julio O. Ojeda and Charles Zatrepalek.

Also present at the meeting were the following individuals: Paul Daly and

Carlton Burrell of the FBI and Mike Madigan, Rick Inderfurth and Mike Epstien

of the Connittee Staff. Present for pa.: of the weeting were Bill Miller, Staff

Director of the Committee, and Charles Kirkow of the Committee Staff.

3. The Agency officers explained that they were there to determine how,

within the Agency's charter, they could provide assistance to the detectives

in their investigation and to receive their questions and then pursue the answers

within the Agency. The detectives asked for help in the following areas and

. their questions break down into three basic categories.

A. First, they sould like to know whatever the Agency knows

about certain Cuban nationals, some deceased and some still alive.

They are as folloss:

1. Ramon Don Festevez Dominguez (deceased by shooting) - borr

2 May 1936 or 5 February 1936; reportedly a boat manufacturer

who was able lo go in and out of Cuba on a regular basis.

SECRET SHIGENE

+52-930-=0588835774.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3 :

( SECRET SEINE

ji. Rolando Ilasferrer Rojas (deceased by bombing) - born

12 January 1918.

lis. Luciano Nieves (receased by shooting).

iv. Jose De La Torriente (deceased by shooting).

v. Jose Quintana - born 3 Oclober 1945; reportedly a nepher by

marriage to Rosselli.

vi. Jaoquin Antonio Cortizo - born 10 January 1945.

vii. Nanola Artimes (the detectives specifically asked where he is

now).

vili. All/LiSH - his identily and preser.l whereabouts.

IX. What are the names of the three Cubans mentioned in the

Rosselli testimony? (Tivo of the three names are in the

9 December 1970 memorandum discussed in paragraph 4 of

this memorandum.)

B. Secondly, they asked for whatever information the hgency could

provide on the following individuals whose citizenship is unknown but who

are probably U.S. citizens.

1. Fred Black - identified as a lobbyist involved with Bobby Baker,

he reportedly lives in the Watergate Afaricents and is a friend

of Mahey, Rossell and Shimon. They wanted to know if he had!

any connection with the Castro assassination plots.

li. Edward Morgan - a D.C. attorney who has reportedly represented

Black, Shimon, Rosselli and Maheu.

lil. Joseph Shimon - identified in the Senate Select Committee Report

on Alleged Assassination Plots at page 81 as "a friend of Rosselli

and Giancana." They wanted to know if he had any CIA rela-

tionship.

G. Third, they ask a number of general questions which are as

follows:

."

• Whe is the Cuban who provided the speedboat mentioned in th

enate Select Committce Report

SEAME

de l

---

## Page 3

ji. Who is "B-)* and whatis the name of the anti-Castro group

both of which are mentioned on page 89 of the Report?

iii. Did Harvey actually pay Rosselli $2, 700 io dciray the Cuban

expenses as mentioned on page 84 of the Report?

iv. Why was Rosselli approached inglead of Giancanz or someone

else?

v. Did the Agency do a background check on fiossclli o: Giancana

and, if so, could they have access to it?

vi. Why was all contact sith Rosselli stopped in 19552

vii. Would it be possible for then to talli to the man or wen who

served as Chief of Station in Miami Juring 1950 to 1965?

viii. Could they talk to the current Chief of Station in

ix. Would it be possible for the detectives to talk to James P.

O'Connell, a retired senior Office of Security employee?

5. Does CIA have any evidence that the Cuban Intelligence Service

may have been involved in Rosselli's death ar that Cuban agents

were in the Miami area at the time of his death?

1. Rick Inderfurth presented the undersigned with le classified mero

randa and stated he thought they shou'd be declassifies and made available to

the détectives. One is a 9 December 1970 memorandum to the DCI from the

- Director of Security, Subj: "ROSSELLI, Johnny." The second is a blind memo?!

randum dated 9 August 1976, Subj: "Johnny Rosselli." Copies of both are

attached.

5. The undersigned made absolutely no commitments with respect to any

of the requests except to the one relating to interviewing the current COS

and I said no to it. The delectives will be in town until Saturday and can be

reached a! their motel, Tcl. 521-1900, Room 610. Following that they can be

reached at the sheriff's office in Miami at (305) 547-7456.

Gary M. Breneman

14s-

SECRET SAISINE

---

