# 104-10071-10240

## Page 1

JAnE

1104-10071-10240

#SECRET

1Ie92

¿DIR INFO PAÉY LANT BARR PRIN SDOM CITE WAVE 4913

PINTEL DIVOUR IMPALM PERUMEN

ЧР.

YSUPDATAS AMOT-174 IN EE-2194 DATED 6 NOVEMBER 1964 FROM RAUL

TALS PROTECIT.

REF8 UFG 6173 AND UFG 62$5.

FILED 170009Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

HA IT I & CUBA

0/04=1

¡SUBUS DISAPPOINTMENT OF ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS AT POSSIBLE:

CEXCLUSION FROM HAITIAN EXILE ACTIVITIES

PDOIS 6 NOVEMBER 1964

PADAS UNTED STATES, MIAMI (13 NOVEMBER 1964)

UFG 6213

SOURCE:

A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE

MUQUES DE INEORMATLON EOLECTION

THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED

8.927

C

APERTURE CI

NO +

---

## Page 2

12$

1753

27: F3

GLABSIPER MISSAGE

RECENEUS EGRET

Machin

ACTON

NO

DO 24 9 41 1N°

IN 24481 PAGE 2

USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM

A PERSON WHO SPOKE WITH DAVID QUINTAS GONZALEZ.

COMMENT,

TOC

ROUTINI

BASED OX

SERASINO I WO

DATE DISTREUTID

SECRET

LABON

T7NED FANY

REFRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMENA

-.

114

Серт

---

## Page 3

DISAPPOINTMENT OF ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS AT FOSSIBLE'

EXCLUSION FROM HAITIAN DILE ACTIVITIES

4 ACE.

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (13 NOVEMBER 1964)

0 24481

FELO PORT MA. UFG 6213

A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION

COLLECTION.

THE GROUP MAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.

THIS INFOR-

MATION WAS OBTAINED FROM A PERSON ANO SPORE WITH DAVID QUINTAS CONZALEZ.

È 1. ON 6 NOVEMBER 1964, DAVIO QUINTAS GONZALEZ, PREVIOUSLY

¿ DESERIBED AS THE MIAMI REPENTATIVE GET COMER CLAN SENATOR

P FROLANDO

MASFERRER ROLAS, SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN VISITED IN MIAMI

BY MASFERRER ON THE NIGHT OF 5 NOVEMBER AND THAT MASFERRER HAS

VERY UPSET BECAUSE HE THOUGHT IME MAITIAN EXILES WANTED TO EXCLUDE

HIM FROM A COMBINED EFFORT TO INVADE HAITI

2.

QUINTAS SAID THAT HIS (QUINTAS" TRIP TO NEW YORK TO

ÖISCUSS THE SHIPMENT OF ARMS TO MIAMI HAD BEEN CANCELLED BECAUSE

¡ MASFERRER CAME TO MIAMI. ACCORDINO TO QUINTAS, MASFERRER WANTED

TO SHIP THE ARMS FROM NEW YORK TO MIAMI BY SEA.

CONFIDENTIAL

64A

ANDY/ACDI

KAVY

IGNS

TREASUAY

NEA

CUSTOMS

BORDER PATROL

ATSOL CAST GLADD

5$9t91

: Vi

136 1 309

RI COPY

RI COPY

---

## Page 4

BANd 101 (80)

24481

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS08-315/01386-08A08 2

3. (FIELD COMMENTS IT WAS PREVIOUSEY REPORTED BY ANOTHER

SOURCE WHO IS A TRAINED REPORTER ANÉUPAÓGHAS BEEN RELIABLE IN

PAST THAT THE HAITIAN EXILES HAD DECIDEO TO EXCLUDE THE PARTI-"

CIPATION OF CUBAN EXILES, AND PARTICULARLY MASFERRER, FROM THEIR

OPERATIONS DIRECTED AGAINST HAITI, THE SAME SOURCE ALSO REPORTED

SUBSEQUE

SPLY THAT THE HAITIAN EXILES BELIEVED THAT MASFERRER MIGHT

„CREATE PROBLEMS FOR THEM AS A RESULT OF HIS EXCLUSIONO)

4. FIELD DISSEMA CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, I&NS, BORDER PATROL, AND USCA. (ALSO

SENT PORT-AU-PRINCE AND SANTO DOMINGO.)

CONFIDENTIAL

(END OF MESSAGE)

SALE BIT

---

