6

jsaialisnigeitainnatine a a)
DISPATCH MoH

0 3
| Chief, Africa Divisio)

KGaieg, MKVIVID,
Chie#’ of Dasa,

Faia
| Chick of Statio
SSaseT

Isis 4
[nist of fGar A/a
RAFI RADUIRED «| ar

"8_Personnel in Libya’ and Related Technical ‘aoe

Action: FYI and as stated Bak TURN 79 ¢,
: ; j ‘Bee oN Use
3) | Referencos: .A. DIRECTOR 066233. a Re,
13 B. '4658 17-79 12-2» rd 4
es c. 4692 (Not sent! : :

“TAU taf
1. Forwarded undor separate cover is a list oOf/GSFEW/1‘s personnel
an Libya (Idens A through MH) and the areas to which they are assigned. -
Also forwarded under separated cover, but to Headquarters onl are id
biegraphic skotchos on ton of the thirteon men employed by(GSFEW/1 as07.
woll a3 a profile of himsolf. It is hoped that basic biographic data on’
tha other throo mon, Idena F, G and J, can be obtained from LNCUFP
fripoli and Bonyhazi Conoular files. It will ba noted that Iden C was
bor in Woot Gormany. ©

"4.2, In recent waok: Gov has employed idon N as nfo socrotary
Agi ond she and hor husband ion 0) live in Sig 3 artment above that of
10 Wesbaw/1. Iden W's main duties are to handl FEW/1'o correspondance 02
jy. [and groot ony visitors that appoar at his apa ene door. As proviously
108 stated, ics ‘EW/1'o o£fica is located in his apartmont and, since ho has no.
telephone; were must call: on him personally.

fae & EW/1 gives high technical dopability marks to Ideno A, D° ‘and

Hand Iden £ iv aloo « highly qualified man. However, Idon E.has

G cauca 'EW/L a fow headaches with Libyan Customs since Iden E hap baon
tho reeipiont of considorcblo pornographic literature sent to him through
the intornational mail frcm Coponhagon. Libyan custens officials hayo
“Opened the mail, and although possibly secretly interested fh the highly
graphic material, have told 7/1 that he must take aa to guarantee

7 : ‘
Attachments: * 1. - Idans u/u/e oe

1. 2. Bho data u/s/c |

ao : 3. . Sketch. u/s/e 4

wratli i ghey
Vib.

usr

Distribution: orig & 1 = c/pr

COC oa “oe { oispaiun sya

(adie e021
Ce|ema ae aaa

Greer



14-0Q000 : : Ath
ee a bispavcu i oWUKE rt. 4 ; [rora agar
: ae (eine .
thot. no. further’ literature ‘of thie’ nature will come to Libya and to Iden oe

Be." e
4. Again for Headquarters only is a sketch [G9rEW/1- gave the Station +
on 23 September 1970 which shows tho proposed UHF radio system expansion

which was tho subject of Reference C. Portions circled with red poncil

are tho planned oxpansions. :

‘
"5. Regarding a SRAC syatem. tor{tbpew 6 uso in Tripoli. Per -°-
¢ |Station's requost that approval be g m to Lease another apartment in 9»

\ hig building would certainly onable him to transmit from his own to the

foufG apartment. He could be provided with an appropriate radio (he

already possesses two tape recorders) for this‘ purpose. (ex 3SPEW/1 does not 102
hava a radio in hia car but could have one installed and-arrangements

made for him to transmit to NEUWIRTH's residence. The latter is located

a half block from a main thoroughfare that (GSFEW/1 could frequently and 02
naturally use to get him to various locati6ns in Tripoli. NEUWIRTH's:
residence is also about a block and a half from Iden P wheref GSPEW/L Vz
makes a habit of stopping each Frida’ ‘evening during the “happy hour."

He drives to the Iden P, as do Scher [HOCORKERS, and after parking his car | O27
could tranomit before entering the Iden P. (eshew/1 also has a TV set, 02

in the event this could be modified aS a SRAC device, but it must be taken
into consideration that the Libyan programs are only presented during

evening hours. The Station also has another safehouse apartment in the

Idon Q building which is also located on a busy thoroughfare and a street
GSPEW/1 would also have need to take in handling business and shopping

fairs. EUWIRTH has been planning to have a radio placed in this

apartment for use dusing 8 meetings with Station assets. ‘

6. rasnousn[ EW/1L would often use SRAC only for transmitting
-|purposes. and it would not be necessary to query him on the information he
reported, two-way voice communications would probably be essential in
those instances whero he had tethnical and other fairly complicated data |
po relay which would necessitate his case officer being able to make .
Gortain it is understood and does not require clarification-and/or
amplification.

ye
%. Other information concerning ene [ogre activity will follow H
by ‘separate dispatch.
ce Oo

a aed ee Iie net
_ Arthur E, NEUWIRTH



@

ee

oa. se
| RVBAT 2
val Ze

UNDER SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 1 To [aprA}4481

. . 0 at : / : 2 -
ar) Assigned td . \

x
@ Idens A. Wallen U. *KLANN, Field Engineer, and married.
a

7 :
B. Quintin V. *PROCHASKA, Field Engineer, ai ae
married, Will shortly be transferred t : :

. to replace¢L. Wayne Rogers. .

/ ©
» 4 :
+, ©, Franz-Josef *STBEBENS, TTY Repairman, and married.
: BR 260 SEM 49% :
D. Charles W. *SPENCE, Field Engineer, and married. . . 1

i x

£. Richard L.’ *KING, Technical Controller, and single.
x

F. Ray *EDWARDS, Draftsman, anf married.

ong = E
G. Vinee *KENNY, Field Engineer, and single.
9

Assigned t {0 °
. Fe fer Venbet

H. L. Wayno eROGERS, Field Engineer, and nA twill
_ Shortly bo transferred t: to replace Quintin
Vv. Prochaska.

a : . é :
I. Donald c. _SBEASLEY,, Technical Controller, and single.

Vay bre

J. Charles SBUTERA, Field Engineer, and married.

assignsa td : : i i a

eA a :
_ K. Raymond E., FLEARY, Field Engineer, and single.

Noe
L. Robert T. sonnenBERG, Technigal | Controller d and
¢; wingle, ©
Vy. ? : aed
: A : ee
M. Clyde Long *COMBS, Jr,., Field pigineer, and married.
a) : -
SECRET.: ° :. ‘ i

cee RBA ae



SECRET
RYBAT

ex
N. “Rita ®BRANDT, DOB 10 July 1940. She is German

and although her POB is not known she attended z «
high school at Friedberg, pee She is wtotte
married to James Brandt:
0. James dpranpr, U.S. citizen, and employed as a - :
Mechanical Engineer for, OASIS Oil Company in
Tripoli. \
P. U.S. Marine House : a : x

Q. Alitalia

a
t Se AYBAT ail ee

