# 104-10528-10089

## Page 1

104-10528-10089

FADO

ROUTINE:

1802d

HETD: 2508

1212:D82T

SEX?

LONG. ATHE VIEN

55275

5200

RACL

520S

TRILY MEIRD: (207027 IN 214072:

ENOSGATIZAZICN OF CURAN ATP CAFUNSE STETEE:

1M195J18-

SITS I EZLACATISAO IFE FIGHTSA MZEPLOYANITS RECGEST A SRINT FRCS:

¡MAND WIRE COVEDACE DO POINT DEFENSE OF LOON IRSTALLATIONS EXFO

TRIC ERRING IS SYSTRE TO CLIAN CONTESS. MIS GiANGS TO STE

COM ISTICATED SAN GUIDANCE DADAR COUTDIT,

APPARENTLY TING HIDE

SECRE CUBANS ENGIR TIBLE PRALISG, RAS EIDECEZ RANGE CAPARIDIZIY

G-213 BAVE SIRE DIMINIO 200N IS TRAINING BASE TO THREE OTIFA

ALFIELDS, POSEIFLY AS DAFT T THE OVERALL REONGA? FLATION OF MiS

AIR LEPEASE 3Y3730.

SINC_ SOVIET BELATIONS HAT ES AFPLONCHING NOT CLIMAX: INFRE

KAS GROWING INDICATIONS TRAT, SOVURT LENDERO DUS CORGIDERIRO CONVENIN

ALSO INTEINATIONAL COMMUNIST HASTING, PIESUHADY TO SXPLOST PETPINIS

CONCTION OR ME DUCKBAR IRST DAN TERAT LECISION TO CALL BUCH A

---

## Page 2

3 Cara

CONFETITICS, DEGANIZED ALONG LINES THE CUINGER COULD MON ACCRET. WITH

INDICATE A LOUISARAT EPIDER TO PROTONE END CHNOSE ANTION SHICH

FEE VENE COULT ESPERATIT A3 FRIPING'S FORSAL VULUNTAR BEPARATIO:

FION TEN COLUAL CERT

2 CINEER CONTAIST NASICAL DAY: FOR THE FOUATE COrSOCCE

TIS CRLEZATILAS AVOIDES GOASTS OF CALITARY AND SCORDIC

AND CAUTICUS ALQUE ECOLCEC SEOGESAS AND PRUSFILTEN

COMUNIST CHIRA - LOTTA ZORZAC LAU CHAO-CHIES VISIT TO MORT

• MONGOT UNIL ODING NISHIN DE LUÃT DOS 000. 10.

NS APPAREN LY PAILED TENTS ATTITA TO LUBROIL TO SOSTAUS

SVEN LORE DEELY TA MS COMA SOVIET STRUGGLE

HIS DEUBOATION SUCOBSTA CAJOR SUBSTANTIVE BATTERS CLUE CRETE NORITA

STODACRLTRAIX MIBATLA DAYBLORISITS TR COMANTST CHISA LA

CSINA IS LEFEUETÃO A CAPPOTLITY TO PRODUCE SURPACE TO NIA MISSTLIO

NO FLATE NIFER RIOUDILUSO INOTALLO NO AT SUNDED ANGELES

020 A Bie

---

## Page 3

BOUIPLENT MECESAR! TO FINE A LISSILR./Y

5. DEVELOPLENTS IN COLUTIET ORAIS FURCHASAS

"I'T NOR SEEMS

CHINA HAS WOT YET STAÑTRO HAGITATIE CONTALIN POR ISSA DELIVERY

CUT IT MILL PROBABLY NERD ALOUTS MILLICH TONE: 190 SIROPEAN

EATELLIGES LAVO HOGUN BRIBING TIATIN TE FEST: SOVIET NEUSPAPERE

ARE POINTINO TO A LOUNTING PROCAIN OF HITE BROSION OF DIE COTE

IN THE KEY LARDS;

(Con?)

6. PETE IVANUUTIN: /AUS SOVIET ILITARY INTELLIGENEL CHIEP ITE

APFOINTEENT ORA DEPUTY SECEST, FOLICE CHIEF TO REPLACE IVAN SEROV

O GAS SACKED AFFER TER PRICITY CASE, PROBADLY EXITES SIGNALS

A SECURITY CRACKDOUR TICH COULD LOVER BONALE AND LADYE MACOIS

IRLEKLIGEICE COLLECTION BEVOST AT LEAST TEMFORARILIV

7A S

LAOB://WITH THE ADVENT OR TIL DRY SEASON, COMNIST FORCES

RAVE, RESUNZD LABGE-SCAL CONVOY OFSEATIONS. INTO LAOS ALONG THIE

RECHATLY LOPSALS LOUIS 7A SUBSTATTIAL INUSION OF TOOPS AND

JUSCLASS FOUR NURIN VIDINAD IS ANDICATED DURING THE PACT TO VEEKS

DARIURO CONVOY ACTIVITY LAB ALSO BEEN ERPORTED AING ROLES 12 IN

BOUNCUTEAL /LA03

TBES LOVETS DAY PAZSACE A CNIAL OP MILITARY

.01

---

## Page 4

200

P730086

ROY THAT THE TEATIEN WAS ISRAOVER AND SINCE

MIS POSITIC:

MARIAS DE MIE PATRET LAO WEAR PEORAIOR.

i.

12078 0410 SE

" CORONIR MILIRARY CHIEF, KAO KONG LE 15

TFAMKNKKTKE

COSACE

FUERON TORIREHAY TIEN

Chan patis en Irica!

TEN CONEY 2YNTTVSS S7UM 6237422

AUAL CO инив от 9-12 остова» 13. сут ARGOIL rOLiSE.

ACIR

CUESTARCES THAN DOSESU

PIETY STRATEGIST VAS TODELPASSY OPIOIDS THAT MACHULEAS

SOR COLO SAIREE

1уд88h52, 23

•5209

5T23 408 2105570

SOLTAKE CORNOS

DITED 1513 21 341854

BHOS

JARCS JUER

846.20,X

---

## Page 5

FOR A GAIN OF NINE SEATS IN THE PROVIRCIAL LEGISLATUNS:

THE TENTIO

ALDI DOMINANT SOCIAL SQUERATS DEODORD PIPER SLATS BYSN FiCUGH TUET

HELD TIBIR ALS MAJORITY OF TIE VOTE AT ADOUT THE SALT LEVEL'-54 PERCEYT--

AS IN THE LAST EUROTION, THE PRINCIPAL REASON FOR TU COU SUCCESS

APPRAAS TO MAVE BEEN TUZ DETSAIORATION OF TUS SPLINTER GAPRET PASTI

AND THE RALLYING OF CONSERVATIVE VOTSAS BALLED ME EDUCA (CON)

101 FRANCK: /THE: PERACH, DAVY CONTINUES TO GIVE HIGIBST PRIORITY

DO TEE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTICH OP A NUCILAR POTENED, FOLARIS-TIPE

SUBMARINE, I PROJECT ABSORBING OVER HALF 02, IYE NADS 2900-143

RESEARCH AND DEVELODIENT FORDE:

DESOTTE DULLIE CLATIS DIAT DIE.

PILOT SUBHARINVEKTILL OS AVAILATER AN ISSO DELAYS IN TILE DEVELOPLENT

07 30K3 CORPONENTS MAKE IT UNLIKELY THAT, TES FIRST SUCLEAR, SOAT CAM

EE DEPLOYED ON SCATION BEFORE 1971-1/

END OP NESDAGE

дался RT

---

