# 104-10310-10089

## Page 1

104-10310-10089

UNCLASSIFIED

•TERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

COI. DENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Richard A. Fuller

28-1415 Assistant to the SA/DDO

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

". C/CI Staff alco

LA DiN

2.

EXTENSION

9018

FICER S

NMIAL

NO.

DATE

FORWARDED

20 February 1976

lo whom

0 to 1 FOR ACTION:

Cf Staff Paragraph 3 only

SA/DO har uphia t

Parca.4.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

File: 5sc/LA

SA/DDO

Fuller

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

1.

15.

FORM

3-62

60 THOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DATE

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:

SA/DDO

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

REMARKS:

SA/UNO

112

LUFEB 76

FROM:

ROOM NO.

FORM

THES 59•241

BUILDING

WALACES INSE

EXTENSION

(47)

---

## Page 3

13-00000

..aid.

Review Staff: 76-0200/b

19 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: SSC Contact

Jim Johnston and Dan Dwyer of the SSC staff raised

the following questions during the course of a discussion

with the Review Staff on 19 February 1976.

1. They are most anxious to know the

identify of the initials G. N. N. which

appear on several AMLASH papers.

They

would like our firm assurance that we are

not able to identify this

-

person.

They would like to know if (John

26

Whitten is available for a possible interview.

3.. They reviewed the 201 file on

Gilberto Lopez and ask if there would be any

other files such as Security or a file main-

tained by LA Division or by CI Staff. They

noted particularly that there is a cable

dated March 1964 which is not included in

the 201 file.

4. They would still like to have this

file sent to them and would like a statement

in writing as to why we object.

They note that the only photograph

shows

him

wearing sunglasses and ask if there

is a better likeness

available.

6.

LITEMPO.

They ask for a identification of

They request a letter in writing

about the present unavailability of the

Wast Elder

Walter Elder

Review Staff

3,3.

CC - SA/ DDO

Due lea

---

