# 104-10112-10255

## Page 1

104-10112-10255

558-112569

RETURN TO CK

Background Lee Oa

De Net Reproduce

SECRET

SPECIAL SECRECY AGREEMENT

Crozier

mployee of the Central Intelligence Agency, understand that I

will undertare a special mission Inown as Project JMARC. I

realize that in the course of this mission I will acquire clas

sifiec information within the purview of the Espionage Act,

Title 1B USC, Secs. 793 and 794. I also realize that isolated

words, phrases, careless discussion, actions and incidents, or

the insecure hancling of classified documents and material could

compromise this operation, conceivably causing unnecessary LOSS

of life, serious injury to the interests, prestige and safety

of this Nation and be of great advantage to hostile foreign

governments.

Therefore, it is understood that my unauthorized dis-

closure of any information relating to Project ARC may subject

me to prosecution for violation of the Espionage Act, whether

such disclosure be mace while I am an employee of the Central

Intelligence Agency or at any time thereafter.

3. I understand that the sensitive nature of this mission

demands my utmost discretion, care and attention so that no in

terest of the U. S. Government and/or the Central Intelligence

Agency in the Project will be revealed or inferred.

4. Understanding the importance of the mission I am to

underta'e and the necessity of preserving the security of the

operation, I solemnly promise not to divulge by word or writing

or to acmowledge or indicate in any manner whatsoever to any

unauthorized personnel within or outside the Agency any infor-

mation or conments concerning the Project or the personnel

involved.

Hoth. Curier

Signature

Witnessed by me this 3/ day

of

at

1960

to, DC.

SECRET

---

