ro4-10192-0081

“pies FS wo ier ti

n

oe
& cere 1 RE

MICROFILMS

See WAR a 1965
INFO: CCI, B/0CI, OOP, axe, $00 4, int teas sie, ee CA/PROP, CA/O 4,
C1/OPS, CI/IC 2, CI/PS, Fl, FI/0, FI7TT Chyeb1, WeeSA "12, WH %

WR, FILE, CS/RF-- ws,

c
1
bia ‘INFO Beebe & BARR CIT ve. 6618S) > c
INTEL TYPIC i :
1
~ AMCLATTER= eran FRANK FLORINI AND ha “JOHNEEN
T SOURCE'S HOUSE Viegp 2d FEB 65-! FIORINI TOLO SOURCE THAT JOHNSCN
“gad HE SAW JACK GRIFFIN AFTER HIS RELEASE BY U.S. autHoRITIES FOLL-
WING PLANE CRASH, SUT JOHNSON WOULD NOT DISCLOSE DETAILS THEIR CCNVER-
: ‘SATION, feeneee R
“RIDE INDEX. FILED 24/9936Z :
: : ¢
REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM °
| :
COUNTRY CUBA Md
slau: 1. INSISTENCE OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA THAT THE MIRR 6CMB THE
City OF HASANA.
2. USE OF AMERICAN PILOTS IN MIRR AIR STRIKES
TW COMMENT. in
R : R
' 1
c
: — o-
= TOCS. DB-315/00652-65 .
ty V TRIO RY
 essstaa J BASED ON UFG 6747 :
REEASING NP tes y DATE DISTRIBUTED: NO PROJECT "
ee Aree FEBRUARY 1965 CAMCLATTER/ 1) .
ae a | MAISON, = +a: Aco; ao
Beagle ase bea e ie



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
LSECRET

pace Two: ww'86271

26 FEBRUARY 1965
“STATES, MIAMI (22 FEBRUARY. 1965)

eg dna eaeetae ed

DENT OF HAGANA FOR SEVERAL

Mea dt 5 a SATE
A ‘MIAME BUSINESSMAN wHo WAS A RES!

YEARS..:° THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZ
U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM GILL JOHNSON.

HIM AS A CHANNEL TO

wg
i i secRat:
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROHIBITED.



"ieee 3007

CONFIDENTIAL =~. eee

QVSen Filled bw

coateze acon

_CONFIDENKS AL “CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY : encuTine s
Intelligence Information Cable

TOCS DB-315/00652-65

pisma, 24 FEBRUARY 1965

ACE a:
DATE ACQ. ute STATES, MIAMI rey FEBRUARY 1965) REF nN 86271,

‘SOURCE : = alt FELD REPORT NO. UFG 6747 -

‘APPRAISAL A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO'WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS.
THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS: WHO RECOGNIZEHIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.
THIS INFORMATION WAS ‘OBTAINED FROM BILL JOKMSON.

: ES a A's “oye, Ela, MS
1. ON 2 FEBRUARY 1965, an Kounson, AN pene

“ARRANGES. THE SUPPORT ASPECTS OF AIR STRIKES AGAINST CUBA 3Y ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA'S MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCICNAL DE RECUPERACICN REVOLUCIGN-
ARIA (MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL’ MOVEMENT FOR REVCLUTICNARY RECOVERY), SAID
THAT THE MIRR WAS MAKING 183-PGUND "ASH CAN" "BOMBS FCR SUBSECUENT
RAICS, “MORE THAN AMPLE ‘TO BLOW UP THE OIL TANKS IN HAGANA’" “JOHNSON
SAIO THAT BOSCH STILL INTENDS TO BOMB HABANA, BUT "IT WILL 5E AGAINST
MY ADVICE". JOHNSON LATER ADMITTED THAT HIS OWN MOTIVATION 1S PURELY
MERCENARY. (FIELD COMMENT? SEE “DCSOB-315/s555550-05. DATED 16
FEGRUARY 1965, FOR INFORMATION ON BOSCH'S INSISTENCE THAT THE CITY

po Thhis material cootains informati hos affecting d the National Defense of the United States within the meaning. of the ae
“EER eae Spe a be Ue sronasaseaz cctpeenanctatcreicccsr‘oediee tceniocianed aa sonore re
~ CONFIDENTIAL ; ram ea

STATUNR DIA ARMYIACSI NAVY AIL XS SECDEF NSA NIC AD USI,
AQICL-2 CIA/NMCC:. FBI TENS TREASURY CUSTOMS BOROER PATROL Coss? GUARD



ceareuia asc rw OTT

: - 7 - é
CONFIDENTIAL MURAI es ete soe biaiahl
OF HABANA 6E THE MIRR'S NEXT TARG: Te THIS, MISSHON WAS ORIGINALLY:
 ScHEQULED FoR 16, FEBRUARY.) ee
<2, [MOHNSON ALLEGED THAT THE PLANES OPERATING FOR THE MIRR_ ARE
LEAVING FROM THE UNITED STATES. . WHEN TAMPA WAS 'MENTICNED AS A POSSIBLE
DEPARTURE POINT, JOHNSON SAID: "VOU'RE GETTING CLOSE.”
: 3s “JOHNSON SAID HIS SMALL GROUP’ PRACTICES GOOD SECURITY.

“UNMHENSWE GET A’ PLANE! AND A PILOT, WE CGNTRACT THEM FOR THREE OPERATIONS®
THE PLANES ARE FLOWN BY AMERICAN PILOTS SINCE "THE CUSAN PLOTS DON'T
HAVE THE GUTS."

4. JOHNSON. CLAIMED THAT JACK GRIFFIN, THE AMERICAN PILOT WHO
CRASH-LANDED A B-25 EARLIER THAT MORNING, HAD. TAKEN PART IN A PREVIOUS
RAID ON CUBA. HOWEVER, HE DID NOT KNOW IF THE DOWNED 8-25 HAD EVER BEEN
USED IN ANY RAIDS. JOHNSON SAID HE OES NOT KNOW OAN SHAW,

*. GRIFFIN'S CO-PILOT ABOARD THE DOKNED 3-25.
F2.4,) 5s JOHNSON INSISTED’ THAT THE-RAIO WHICH THE MIRR ANNGUNCEO AS

HAVING TAKEN PLACE ON BAHIA HONDA-CN 13 FEBRUARY HAD TANEN PLACE
IN SPITE OF. THE FACT THAT CUBA HAS NOT ACKNOWLEDGED IT.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF
STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, I8NS, BORDER PATROL, AND USCG.

2 a,
CONFDENTHRL Bier aaa oa

