# 104-10180-10099

## Page 1

104-10180-10099

PETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

*- Do Not Reproduce

1PNO

Pocheen

in realts.

Fier 7-97

202 32

Ambong

CUPTATA: ANTRE-5 LAND GPCHE WITH END

ERNST BEHPE CN DE NOV ^

LICAL AUSGUA OFFICE NES EXTENSIVE FILE

EN BEMEE, METTREILITY .

QUESTIONALE. RIDE INDEX. FILEDE 24/23242.S

GEPORT CLASE CUNFIDINTIAL CENTACLLED DISSEM

CLA

POSAU: LE PISCHUN TO CUN EY THE JUNTA PEVCLUCIONARIA

C 4 (U5:?

HOFGUE CADETEHT AUFLO'H DI LFIVER AND YACHTSNAM WITH GOUE GUTACTS IN

5 4-60991000 RiS CSTAILED ESO DAIL ERIST BERE.

MO DIESEMINATION DE THE ATTACHED

TO PORTION OF THIS CAELE HAR BERN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDIMO

CA-

TOCS

BASLO CAR

LiAISONE

SEGRET

864082292-099999

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUNG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

copy Rio

VIBR

---

## Page 2

1d-0000

diede infittirono nigeico

GNL.947

INdO.

1OCS

DIste

SUMECT

LACES

DATE ACO

SOUICE

APPRAISAL

REi

FIELD REPORTNO.

IN 29832

-- 1. ON i6 NON Ó$ EMIL ERNST. ECHRE, AN AMERICAN "SOLDIER

UF FORTUN'", SAIO THAT THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE,

CL-AN E NGLUTIONARY JUNTA), À CINAM EXILE GROUP WHICH MEETS AT

THE TOLEDO RESTAURANT, 204 BISCAYNE OCULEVARD, MIAMI, WAS

MANINO A SUALI OPERATION TO CUBA WITHIN THE NEXT WEEK. BEHRE

"Á. O THERE WAS i GOCO POSSIBILITY THAT HE WOULD ACCOMPANY THE

MINDIO AG A FTOTOGGAPLER, ME SAIO THE iCADER OF THE GROUP IS

"ALLA"', ENNOR OF THE TOLEDO RESTAURANT, (FIELD CONMENT:

"ALEX" lS PRODAELI IDENTIÇAL TO ALEI AIXALA PERTIERRA, CO-ONNER

OF THE TOLICO RESTAURANT AND ALSE DESCRISEO AS CANER CF THE

Васа 913 алд -96. 1т.н и

CONFIDENTIAL

IIATEPIAA DIA ARMT/ACIA DATT APO SCS SICURE MIA MIC ALD USOS OCI CHI OCE ORA DO

...

pa • a 1i0 m. 2e

---

## Page 3

14-00009

DAGO, MIAMi. A RIFACT CATANIAL, ET 1208 D, REGISTEREO TO

THIS F:IM, WAS INVOLVED IN ANNUEL RAY RIVEFO'S ADORTIDE AITEPT

TO REACH CUDA IN UNE 64.8

2. ACCORDING TO EIHRE, JURE MAS SEVERAL ECATS AT ITE DISPOSAL,

AND USES THE INTERNATIONAL ZOAT AND YACHT SUILDERS, IN. AS A

FACNT FOR ITS ACTIVITIES: WIILE THE PAPER OWNER AÑO DIRECTOR

OF THE FIRM IS LUIS ECHENIQUE, AIXALA ACTUALLY ISSUES THE ORCERS.

AMONG THE BOATS ONNED EY AIXALA IS A 27-FOOT FIVE-INCHi CATAMARAN

POWERED UY TWIN IRE-HORSE POWER VOLVO ENGINES, BEARINE FESISTRATION

EL MiST: (FICLO ECAMENT: THIS CATAMARAN IS SELIEVED TO ZE

.. ICENTICAL TO THE CATAMARAN WHICH CARRIED REGISTRATION CI-1255 D

MENTIONED IN PARA 10) THE FL-4115 F WAS LENT TO BEHRE E- AIXALA

TO DE LARO AT HIS DISCRETION. AIXALA SAID THE SCAT WAS TOC HOT

TO LE USES FOR OPERATIONS AT THE MOMENT. EEHRE SAID THAT JURE

ALSO HAS A SLACK 16-FOOT BOSTON WHALER WITH TWIN IRE HORSE POMER

MERCURY DUTEDARO ENGINES LMICH WAS BEING CONCEALED IN

LICCRTIFICO GARAGE IN MIALCANO

3º AINALA TOLD ACMRE THAT HE HAS COMPLETE ACCESS TO E-COMPONNO

EXTLOSIVES AND USES IT CN "MISSIONS."

%: FICLO DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINESO, COMAWESTFOR, MISM:

REPS OF STATE, FOL. CUSTOMS, -PURDER FATTOL, JENS; AND LIES.

(IND OF MESSAGE)

CONFIDENTIAL

-ma

---

