# 104-10192-10119

## Page 1

104-10192-10119

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

VRANSMITTAL

400.

IDES INFORMATION REPORT

sarge Corsibrisk

LING.

WE/SAIntel Reports"

*5.5417

2600y 42

NUMATON COMIS

WH/SA. 13

INIOLMATION COPIES

CI/OP3, C1/IC, MA TID. FL/INT 6, 1R; GN2. CA/PEG

DCI

NO SECRET

TDCS 01-3/661,122

DODS.

It 8

PRECEDING

26. May 31261

DISSIMINATION

SY76NE

SMS

SA

XIOUINLE

6137134623

NO

PROJECT

Liaison ®

ISABOD

SACL

JES S03

REQUESTID

ARMY

NAW

HANDLING INSIUCTION

THIS IS AN EXCLUSIVE FOR USID MESSAGE

EYES ONLY FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL KENNEDY

CSDO: BASIC REPORT WAS NOT SENT TO DCI

RECOMMEND FOR EXO

CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

NO HARD COPIES TO FLECTRICAL ADDRESSEES

NO FOREIGN DISSEN/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEN ABROAD. DACKGROUND USE ONLY

CLASSICATiON

WN/SA/SO ROdrIBU (10 drast)

SECRET 25

pread to 591 10 1943

CARCHIN

F90700NA PSITATE

SNIL SA lotel

CCAY. N.

2/508

---

## Page 2

NO FORTION DISSEN CON OILED DISSEUMO DISSEN AND ADAIACKGROUND USE ONLY

SECRET

CENTRAL INTOLITO INCE AGINCY

ROUTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY. •CUBA

DATE OF

23-26 MAY. 1964

INFQ:

TOCS DB-3/661: 422

DISTR

26/MAY 1964

ASTICIPATIOS OF RADIO COSTA FLORE NUEL RAY

RISERO FRON CUBA TO MIANT

UNITED STATES, NINT

(26 HAY 1961)

ACO

AND

APPRAISAL;

ROGELIO CISNEROS DIAZ, WHO US ACTING CHIEF OF JURE DURING THE

ABSENCE OF LANEL RAY RIVERO.

TO ARMY STAGE COUM:

EXCLUSIVE FOR ACSI CISERAL CUTGUS NAVY DNI.

ADITRAL TAYLOR: AIR CORGE ANGIN

•GENERAL THUNAS TO DIAB

CLUSIVE DOR GENERAL CAROIL

• TO STATES:

NO DISTRIDUTION EXCEPTITO MA. TIONS L. HUGHES

TO NSA."

EXCLUSIVE TOR GENERAL BLAKE

TO FUl. 3

S. WILLE TUE MIAMI REFRESENTATIVES OF THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (JURE, CUBAN REVOLUTIONAHY JUSTAD BAD BOPED THAT MANUEL. RAY

RIVERO WOULD HAVE ESTADLISIED RADIO CONTACT FROM CUNA TO MIAMI ON

SATURDAY, 23 MAY I00A, NO CONTACT HAD BEES ESTABLISHED AS OF

1:00 P.N. ON TUESDAY, 20 MAY X004. JURE REPRESENTATIVES DELIEVE

THAT NO NENS IS GOOD NEWS AND THE ONLY REASON FOR THIS IS THAT

RAY HAS NOT YET HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO COUMUNICATE "ITH THEN.

SECRET

DAA.

STATE DIR

TO:: $58

matin aline the not ant

nemains or pormerama

NO FUREIGN DISSEN/ CONTROLLED DISSENS

NO DISSEN AUROAD WACKGROUND USE ONLY

MarY,,

(EYES OSTY ATTORSEY GENERALD

DDI.

ADCI

MEN. LONA TIE

---

## Page 3

ASSES -DONANAO CONTOL

NO

FOREIGN DISSES CONTROLLED DISSEN/

NO

TDCDD-3/661, 422

2.

TOR STATE, PLEASE DELIVER COPIES TO ASSISTANT SECRETARY--

INTER-AMERICAN APLAIRS AND COORDINATOR OF CUBAN APPAIRS.

3. FIELD DISSEN LONT.

EXD OF MESSAGE

#: 19000089439; 625990288

1O FOREIOS DISSE COSTROLLED DESSEN N0 DISSEM ABROAD ISCAGRELND USE O91.5

157-21700

dando D $$

iN8 10 00.87

... PINUARIOR OI TRES ACRNATION AGAL

---

