# 104-10517-10118

## Page 1

104-10517-10118

INT

ORIO &

WET 3011/ SA/ EOB

EXT :6153

CATE :24 APRIL 1964

: tt

D WIDEX

DENO INDEX

DJ FILE IN CS FILE NO

70 PARIS

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFS DC/WH/SA 5

INFO & DOR, ADDP, C/WE 3, C/CI, 0/51.2, VR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

$E353)

848953

27

ROUTING

5

AMLASH/

?1..0i

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRTY PARI

INFO

DESENSITIZEP KEYWAY PERIMEN ANNHIP

REF: DIR 15094

"GONE DIR

16696

1. ANVHIP/1 (A/1) DUE ARRIVE PARIS 26 APRIL, WILE STAY

AS USUAL HOTEL FRANKLIN. INSTRUCTED CONTACT "ROBERTO" BY PIONE

MORNING 27 APRIL BETWEEN 0900-1000 HOURS ON PREVIOUSLY USED NUMBER -

ANJ 4700 EXT 6168. KILL EXPECT SHORT MEETING NITH CASE OFFICER WHO

TO IDENTIFY SELF AS "FRIEND OF BILL THOSPSON'S". MEETING DETAILS

TO BE ARRANGED BY ROBERTO.

2. A/2 BRIEFED TO MEET CARLOS JORGE (ROBRENO) MARIQUEZ

AKA "EL MAGO" WHO HAS IMPORTANT MESSAGE FROM ANLASH/1. A/1 TO GET

GOOD ASSESSENT ROBRENO, INCLUDING DETERMINATION HIS TRUE REASONS FOR

CONSIDERING LEAVING CUBA PERMANENTLY. ACCORDING LAST SEVERAL LETTERS

TO AVI FROM ROBRENO, HE IN CONSTANT TOUCH WITH UNSNAFU/S, WITH WHOM

A/1 FRIENDLY AND WILL SEE. A/1 ALSO TO DETERMINE WHETHER JOSE ALBERTO

(IBARRA) MARTIN AKA "EL, LOCO BLANCO" HAS ARRIVED PARIS WITH ADDITIONAL

MESSAGE FROM ANLASH (IBARRA ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED COME PARIS MIDDLE

MARCH, ACCORDING ROBRENO). FYI, MOST INTERESTED AVI'S ASSESSHENT AS

HQS SKEPTICAL ROBRENO MOTIVES AND TRUE ALLEGIANCE.

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

S-E-C-R-E-T

Instead tras artomatis

donagrading and

faciassobcalide

REPRODUCTIONI 5Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

CONTINUED

UTHENTICATIM

FFICE

•Copy No

173

---

## Page 2

02:3 ₴

CATE !

TO 8

FPON: DIRECTOR

CONFE

INFO &

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

D INDEX

S-E-C-R-E-T

O NO INSEX

DO FILE IN ES FILE NO.

12-€2

ROUTING

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PAGE THO

INFO

CITE DIR

3. A/I TO ATTELPT ASCERTAIN WHAT ORLANDO (PANTOJA) IQUAYO

ARA "OLO" AND CARLOS ALBERTO (FIGUEREDO) ROSALES ARA "CHINO". NON

DOING IN DSE AND WHY BOTH LOSING STATUS AND INFLUENCE. ALSO WEAT

CAUSE PANTOJA'S DIVORCE FROM ZARESCA ESCALONA. (PARA 3 RQNS LOWEST

PRIORITY THIS TRIP).

4. A/1 ALSO TO SEE AND ASSESS, ETC, UNSNAFU/ 19 WHO LONG-

TIME ACQUAINTANCE AND WHO INFORMED A/1 THROUGH ROBRENO AND UNSNAFU

CORRESPONDENCE THAT HE WISHED DINE WITH HIM. IN ADDITION, LAST WEEK

FOLLON ING OCCURRED:

LONG-TIME JEYELER FRIEND OF A/1 CALLED HIM FROM

HAVANA, SAID CUBAN GOVT WISHED A/I GO PRAGUE APPRAISE

AND ARRANGE SALE OF SOME 300,000 DOLLARS WORTH OF

JEWELRY, WHICH TAKEN FROSS BATISTIANOS AT END OF

REVOLUTION. A/1 REFUSED GO IRON CURTAIN, WHEREUPON

JEWELER FRIEND CALLED AGAIN SAID JEWELRY WOULD BE

SENT PARIS CARE OF UNSNAFU/19 WHO EMPOWERED CLOSE

DEAL ON SPOT IF PRICE RIGHT. A/1 REQUESTED TO KEEP

DEAL. MOST SECRET.

- 5. IN TALKS WITH C/O, A/1 SAID HE INTERESTED LOOKING INTO

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

ASING OFFICER

GROUP !

Enstuded from automatic

nowagrading and

_S-F-C-R-F-T

REPRODUCTIOLAY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE PROHIBITED.

CONTINUED

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No

---

## Page 3

1:?:

.

CATE :

70 8

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF

INFO,

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-I-C-E-E-T

E INDEX

ONO INTEN

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

88-82

14

151

6

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PAGE THREE

INFO

CITE DIR 166696

DEAL, IF NO KUBARK OBJECTIONS, AS HE RENEMBERED SEEING JEWELRY

HAVANA 1960 WHICH HE ASSESSED AT THAT TIME AS WORTH ABOUT 250, 000

DOLLARS. A/I STATED HE ALSO BELIEVES THIS PARTICULAR BATCH JEWELRY

IS THAT WHICH CHE GUEVARA KNOWN TO HAVE TAKEN INTO PERSONAL POSSESSION

AT THAT TINE. A/1 TOLD BY KUBARK THAT BUSINESS DEAL HIS AFFAIR AND.

HOPED HE AWARE ALL POSSIBLE RANIFICATIONS.

6. ANTICIPATE A/1 WILL HAVE ONLY SEVERAL, DAYS PARIS THIS

STOP AS HE HAS KUBARK AND LEGITIMATE BUSINESS GENEVA ROME. HE BRIEFED

TO MAKE ARRANGEXENTS SEE CONTACTS PARI UPON RIS RETURN, THUS GIVING

HIM BREATHER, AND HQS CHANCE RECEIVE INITIAL REPORIS FROS PARI, PREPARE

FURTHER GUIDANCE. PLS KEEP FQS INFORMED ALI DEVELOPMENTS A/1 MEETINGS

WITH ROBRENO, IBARRA, AND UNSTAFU/ 19.

7. VIEN DEVELOPIENTS REPORTED PARI 3791 (IN 67286) AND

RELATED TRAFFIC, SUGGEST STATION OFFICER OTHER THAN STOCKYOOD OR

KEARSLEY MEET A/I. SPANISH IS DESIRABLE BUT NOT NECESSARY. FYI, A/1

IS STILL "CLEAN" AND PERSONA GRATA WITH CASTRO CUBAN OFFICIALS AS FAR

AS CAN BE DETERMINED, A SITUATION WHICH, AS ILLUSTRATED ABOVE,

CONTRIBUTES IMAEASURABLY TO AKI'S VALUE TO KUBARK.

END OF SESSAGE

CONTINUED

COORDIRATING OFFICERS

CROUP !

RELEASING OFFICER

S-E-C-R-E-T

Escludes trace sutomatie

deungrading and

AUTHENTICATIEC

OFFICER

detiassalcation

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

...

One!..

I INDEX

DI FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING

4

10 g

PROMI DIRECTOR

COMF

INFO &

TO

I DEFERRED

ROUTINE'

PAGE FOUR

INFO

CITE DIR

16686

WH/SA/BOB EM

WE/3

WE/5

WH/SA/SO/NS

Refitaurs

MOLAS THIRLE

C/WE/EMPT

TUNG OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

S-S-C-BET

RÉPRODUCTION: OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I.

auparelin

BRUCE B.

CHEEVER

DC/WE/SA.

ERCUP &

Rectude; trass antomalie

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

PROHIBITED.

Copy Ne

---

