r04-1092-0180

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Onh
Do Not Reproduce

44° Classi

'D MESSAGE

INFO: DOP, ADOP, SOO 4, DO 4, DO/H 3, CA.2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, Cl, Cci/0Ps,
CI/IC 2, CI/PS, FL, FL/D, FI/INT 6, RI/AM, WH/SA 12,WH 8, WR, FILE.

GNLEXED BRD Cee Cees d
MATCHED ‘

T SECRET FETT ah a van 27, 22 592 65 in ebu52 3P

¢ DIR INFO Lanr [Pc eann Bbaitc (eoave

° inter TYPIC

. SUPDATA? AMSWIRL-1 IN BARR 1942. SCE UFG 6502. 1D: INDE
FILED 2729272 REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED OISsey
COUNTRY: CUBA i
SUBJ: PURCHASE OF THE M/v FL-&S16-SA By YESUS GOMEZ CALZADILLA

g OF LOS JURAMENTADOS Dol: <5 JANUARY 1965 R
| PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 JANUARY 1965) o
- P
y SOURCE: A LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER WHO 1S WELL ACQUAINTED Y
WITH MARITIME MATTERS IN FLORIDA. SGURCE HAS SUBMITTED A LARGE
NUMBER OF REPORTS GASEO ON THE OEBRIEFING CF CUSAN REFUGEES AND
HAS BEEN A CONSISTENTLY RELIASLE REPORTER ON THE PLANS AND ACTIVITIES
OF ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS ENGAGING IN GOAT OPERATIONS. : site
IW COMMENT, 2
R a
' et
Cc
§ BHEHECEHIGy
— 6s Yr
1 ToCs-DB-315/00296-
—t+4 :
bersrraEri PX ROUTINE sty 7
7 E ial ines be a taste ON. a=
DATE DISTRIBUTED: ia
ee ae Ur. Sh 28 UANUARY. 1965 ~ |
Samer stort W. .NELSOM 06372 MAISON.
St pot OE ae _
fan | S

RMi3se9 ES

7 f? : caaeect il TN



‘CONTEGLLED DISSE
CONFIDENTIAL CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY © ROUTINE

: Intelligence Information Cable . :
. COUNTRY CUsA : TOCS 03-325/00296-65
DATE OF 25 JANUARY 1965 DISTR. 28 UANUARY 1965
iro, Nee
PURCHASE OF Tec yy anne eta UESUS GOMEZ
: “TLEDILES OF tos WES
Puce : :
DATE ACQ. UNITEO STATES, MIAMI (26 YANUARY 1965) REF . IN 68452
: ; : peas
SOURCE FEO REPORT NO. UFG-6581
AND
APPINSAls A LOCAL LAW-ENFORCEMENT. OFFICER HO 1S WELL ACQUAINTED WITH MARITIME

MATTERS IN FLORIDA, SOURCE HAS SUSMITTED A LARGE NUMBER OF REPORTS
BASED ON THE DESRIEFING OF CUBAN REFUGEES AND HAS BEEN A CONSISTENTLY
RELIABLE REPORTER ON THE. PLANS AND ACTIVITIES. OF ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS
ENGAGING IN BOAT OPERATIONS,

= 4. ON 25 JANUARY 1965 THE w/v FL-S16-SA IN MARATHON, FLORIDA,

FORMERLY. OnnED By DAVID BOYLE, WAS PURCHASED By vesus"éonez
CALZADILLA, 1958 Sw IsT sT., MIAMI, SECRETARY GENERAL OF Los
JURAMENTADOS, .P.0. BOX 3575, MIAMI, TELEPHONE 373-9431. THE: BOAT
1S A 25-FOOTER WITH A WHITE HULL AND 1S EQUIPPED WITH A

258-HORSEPOWER v-8 CHEVROLET CRUSADER ENGINE CAPASLE OF ‘DOING 4g

MILES PER HOUR. ri , :
6. Cp gba Aiea: TA, a
2. OTHER PERSONS WITH THE GROUP were RAUL DIAZ TORRES 1 ok
der 24 gaae
JOSE aX Race. NUNEZ. (FIELD COMMENT: RABEL, WHO HAS BEEN WITH

THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARTA CUEANA (suRE, CUaAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA),

IDRC oa sae as ean Ma at ot ‘SS Satuer ts au uanearana ca Seay La fe
CONFIDENTIAL nero

SATE/ANE OIA ARMY/ACSI NAVE AME KES SEDER SA ic > ua
iB SQICI 2y CIACC, FET



ro 1-8 30
IN

cond 598-315/00296-
CONFIDENTIAL - IN 68452 CUED OSE = TDCS>S- 315700256 PAGE 2
"WAS. REPORTED TO HAVE BEEN IN THE DOMINICAN REPUSLIC ON 21 JANUARY fot

WHERE HE AND MANUEL VARELA CASTRO WERE. PLOTTING TO TAKE COMMAND | ¥
OF JURE'S M/v VENUS FOR OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA.) .

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS
OF STATE, USCG, BORDER PATROL, I&NS, FBI AND CUSTOMS. (ALSO SENT

CONFIDENTIAL eta 7

CONTRBULED GISSE4

