# 104-10247-10105

## Page 1

104-10247-10105

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

-Do Noi Reproduce

CLASSFICATION

Anuchiplellas?

TRANSMITYAL

Of

TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

CRIG.

R

03

Whitney Tucker?eb

UNIT

WH/SA/Intel/Reports

EXT.

5547

DATE.

8 February 1965

CONTIRMAYION COPIES

WH/SA 12

INFORMATION COPIES

CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6,

IW,

SECRET

20F

ROUTING

FLE: 8 28 04255

TDCS -314/01588-65

CA 2, CA/PEG, DO/H, WE 9.

PRECEDENCE

DATE DISTRIBUTED

8 February 1965

DISSEMINATION 5-4

SA/A

÷13 5:75T

2EREX PARO HIWE/5/RI

SA/Int

STY WAVE1

SAZEOB 3

SA/SO/HI -1F/LONDTW./4/R

SA/CT

1

WEYMADRDI AREABVA

SA7MOB

15-28

TWE/R

EVALUATION

REQUESTED

OF

STATE

ARMY

NAVY

HANDLING INSTRUCTIÓNS

XT HOUTINE

209

BASED ON (PLD. 497., 7808.)

01

ROVL94987 (IN-75118)

NP (QEVIGIL

12-1 LOND5984 (IN-74899)

AH

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINAlING OFFICER(S) .

NE/R3. Procaccino (by 'phone)

CINISIFICATION

Cd'a !

SECRET /15

(HOeEA FHLLID 11)

CESDALTI PIMIOUS tOITIONG

ICCPY NO.

119-86 a6 en

14/.)

---

## Page 2

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY CUBA/WESTERN EUROPE

DATE OF 5-6 FEBRUARY 1965

INFO.

TOCS -314/02588-65

DISTR. 8 FEBRUARY 1965)

- SUBJECT

MEETING OF AMBASSADORS IN MADRID

PLACE &

15-9

15-1

15-4

•DATE ACO

SOURCE

(S FEBRUARY 1965)

REF

INP

15-6

TDCS-314/01551-65

AND

FIELD REPORY NO.

APPRAISAI, SEVERAL

IN WESTERY EUROPE.

PART OF PARA. 2 IS

FROW A CUBAN BUSINESSMAN IN EXILE WHO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY IN EUROPE

AND HAS GOOD ACCESS TO CUBAN DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATIONS.

SOURCES HAVE CORROBORATED ONE ANOTHER'S INFORMATION IN PART.

THESE VARIOUS

1. A MEETING OF CUBAN CHIEFS OF MISSION IN EUROPE WAS SCHEDULED

TO TAKE PLACE IN MADRID BEGINNING ON 8 FEBRUARY 1965. (HEADQUARTERS

COMMENT: IT WAS REPORTED IN TDCS-314/01551-65 THAT SUCH A MEETING

WAS TO BE HELD, POSSIBLY IN MADRID; VICE-MINISTER ARNOL RODRIGUEZ

CAMPS WAS TO REPRESENT THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS.)

2. THE CUBAN AMBASSADOR IN LONDON, LUIS RICARDO ALONSO

FERNANDEZ, PLANNED TO FLY TO PARIS WITH HIS WIFE ON 6 FEBRUARY. FROM

THERE HE AND THE AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE, ANTONIO CARRILLO CARRERAS,

WERE TO DRIVE TOGETHER TO MADRID, LEAVING ON 6 FEBRUARY. CARLOS

MARISTANY SANCHEZ, AMBASSADOR TO THE NETHERLANDS, PLANNED DO FLY TO

MADRID WITH HIS WIFE ON 6 FEBRUARY.

(END OF MESSAGE)

STATEMAR DIA

ARMY/ACSI

tO FOREIGN DISSEM

sheded tres aren

MAVY AIR SCS SECDEE NSA NIC XUS USA OCI ONE OCR ORR 00

Partyashe yours

FBI

INS

---

