id ors]

— fet ene ee : RETUANTO CIA
: - Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

28 AUG 1975

The Review Staff

Deputy Virector for Administration

SUBJECT : Senata Select’ Comaittee Request
(Roselli/Maheu/Giancana Hatter)

~ 1, keference is made to a 22 August 1975 menorandus. fron
the Review Staff (75-2597), which forwards a request from the
Senate Select Comaittse for certain files and documents relat~
int to the Roselli/Makeu/Giancana matter.

2, ith respect to item nusber one of the referenced
request, the pertineat Office of Security Filos concerning
this matter have been assenbled aud are being maintained withia
the Gffice of Security. Thess files will be made available to
designated Sonate Ssloct Cowaittee staff weabers upon specific
request, within tho framework of established procedure for the
Senate Select Committea’s review of Office of Security files.
ft should be noted that no ior soft” files have been
located within the Ofiice ¢ rity concerning this mattor,
r those recently created in response to requests frou
Rockefellar Commission or the Senate Select Committee.

3. On 25 August 1975, the Office of Security partially
reviewed the files of the Inspector General's office with re-
gard to this matter, in an atteapt to lecats any Office of
Security docuaents dated during the 1950-1963 period whica are
hot contained within Office of Security files. As a resule ef
this review, four such meworanda were lecated. Copies of theso
soranda are attached hereto as exhibits, and 2 brief
destription ef these documents follows:

a. Exhibit I: 4 April 1962 memorandum for
tae record captioned "fhe Attached Hemorandum froa the
SRL + Subject: Arthur Janes Salletti, et al”
conceraing Colonel Sheffield adwards” weetiags with
Mr. San Papich of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
ou 23 or 29 March 1962, and with another FSI represent-
ative on 7 February 1962.

bs 91005
E2IMPDET
CL BY 983344.


: %. Exhibit Il: Federal Bureau of Investigation
memorandum, dated 23 Harch 1962, and captioned “Arthur
Jaaos Balletti, et al. Unauthorized Publication or
lise of Communications.” fe
c. Exhibit III: 26 April 1962 memorandum for the

then Birector of Security from Nr. Lawrence R. Houstoa,
General Counsel, concerning meetings which he had held
with Assistant Attornéy General Herbert J. Hiller on

16 April 1962 and with Nr. Foley, aise of the U.S. .
Attorney Genoral’s Office on_20 April 1962, ‘concerning
_the Arthur James Balletti, et al case.

d. Exhibit IV: 14 Hay 1962 mencranduz for the 7
record, captioned "John Rosselli,” by Sheffield Edwards,
which concerns an early April 1962 request from
Br. William Harvey for Colonel Edwards to arrange a
meeting with John Roselli.

4. The chronological files of the former Director of
Security, Colonel Sheffield Edwards, were reviewed for the years
1960 through 1954. Cited review of Colonel dwards’ chrono-
logical files disclosed only one document relating to the Reselli/
Maheu/Giancana matter. This document is zerely s copy of 3 memo-
randus attached hereto as Exhibit I, the original of which was
located in the files of the Inspector General.

5, As stated, the pertinent Office of Security files regard-
ing this matter have been assexubled, and will be retained within
this office pending their review by the Senate Select Committee

Stafi.
[Edd Gru
for ronert ¥, Gaubino
Director of Security
Att
Distribution:

Orig & 2 - dressee «/3 atts

1 - BDA w/o ate
1 - D/Security w/o att
1 - OS Registry w/o att
1 - DD/PSI w/att :
1 - SAG w/att
OS/PSI/SAGfJSHuntthjd (27 Aug 75)
08 :

SECRET - _
