# 104-10049-10221

## Page 1

1104-10049-10221

SECHET

18 June 1976

NENORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security

Analysis Group

SUBJECT

STURGIS, Frank Anthony

AKA:

FIORINI, Frank

SF#353 459

1.

As you are aware, Frank Anthony StUkGis, one of the

convicted Watergate burglars, has repeatedly and

falsely claimed

affiliation with this Agency. Attached to instant nemorandum

are copies of two articles from the New York Daily News by Paul

NESKIC, dated circa April 1975 and 13 June 1976,

specifying

that one Marie LORENZ was involved with Frank STURGIS and Alex

RORKE in 1959/1960 in anti-CASTRO activities. Furthermore, the

articles again allege that STURGIS and RORKE were acting on

behalf of this Agency. • The 13 June 1976 article further alleges

Marie LORENZ has claimed that at the direction of STURGIS and

RORKE (and the Agency and the FBI) in 1960 she went to Cuba to

poison CASTRO.

The poison was given to her by STURGIS. In the

first article Marie LORENZ alleges that E. Howard HUNT, known

to her as "Eduardo" was the paymaster for

STURGIS and RORKE.

HUNT has publicly claimed not

knowing STURGIS until at least

the late 1960's.

•Alex RORkE, ta identical with Alexander I. RoRE, JI-

of fortune who disappeared in September 1963

(SF$427 955), was a free-lance writer, photo white blying in

and soldier

Central Anerica®

• There is no evidence in this file that RORKE

was ever affiliated with this Agency.

is evidence that

RORKE was involved with STURGIS in anti-CASTRO activities in

the early 1960's.

in this name were negative

Relative to Marie LOREN In April 1975.

initial Office of Security

Additional

research relative to

the June 1976 article

has revealed a

positive identification.

Composite information fron the attach-

ments would suggest that Marie LORENZ is of German father/

American mother birth, born circa 1940; that her father vas

Heinrich LORENZ, a former German Navy Captain who in February

1959 was the captain of a luxury liner "Berlin";

E2

INPDET

CL BY 063994

SEENET

D 00866

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SEGRET

Office of Security traces in the name of Heinrich

LORENZ revealed that he is the father of Valerie Claire LORENZ

(SF#117 245).

Information in the file, coupled with informa-

positively identifies the

one Ilona Marita

• one a botage done it one warte toni sentioned in

these articles.

5.

Valerie Claire LORENZ (SF#117 245), born on 9 October

1936 at Bremerhaven. Germany. was the l

Roosevelt

Valerie Claire LORENZ had graduated from

High School Washington,

D. C., in June 1954.

There is no

subsequent activity. in the file.

The following biographic data relative to Ilona

Marita LORENZ(Marie LORENZ)

has been compiled from the file

of Valerie Claire TORENZ:

NAME

DPOB

BROTHER

Ilona Marita LORENZ

aka:

• Ilona Marisa, LAWRENCE

aka:

Illma Marita LORENZ

ака:

Martia LORENZ

18 August 1939.

Bremen,

Germany

Entered the United States with mother

and siblings on 1 May 1950

Joachin (Joe) 'S. IdRENZ

aka:

Joachim (Joe D.

VAWRENCE

Born LT May 1934,

Bremerhaven,

Germany

In 1955 was attending Catholic University,

Washington, D. C., and planned to attend

Georgetown

University and

enter the

diplomatic corps.

2

SEGRET

ail

1 1 JUL

---

## Page 3

13-00000

MOTHER

GRUIET

BROTHER

SISTER

FATHER

Manfred Philly LORENZ

aka:

Philip LoßzNZ

As of 1955,

studying music (piano)

in New York City under Claudio ARRU.

Valerie Claire LORENZ

(supra)

Heinrich Frederich LORENZ

Born & April 1878, Badmunster Al Stein,

Germany.

Married Alice June LORENZ on

31 August 1932 (or 8 August 1931) at

Germany; divorced in

February, 1946, Alice receiving the

children. Employment:

1955: Captain of the "M. S. Berlin",

North American Lloyd Lines, where

he was re-employed in 1948.

1950:

Cargo master of the "Hermoid"

or "Hermod"

U. S. Navigation

Company, Whitehali Building, New

York City.

1945: U. S. Arny Exchange, Bremerhaven,

Germany.

October 1945:

Released from British

PON camp•

He had been captured

during World War II when his ship

sank while acting as a German Navy

officer.

Prior WWII: Captain of the "s. S.

Bremen" and "S. S. Europa"'.

NOTE:

The file contains information that

an individual of the same nane tas

connected with German

during WWII.

intelligence

Alice June XORENZ,

aka:

June Alice/LORENZ

aka:

Alice LAWRENCE (pen name)

aka:

June PAGET (professional

film and

stage name)

nee:

Alice June LOFLAND

of tie 13

---

## Page 4

13-00000

MATERNAL

AUNT

MATERNAL

AUNT

Born 15 October 1905, Wilmington, Delaware

Alice June LOFLAND left the United States

in July 1931 for Germany

and married

Heinrich Frederich LORENZ shortly there-

after.

She remained in Germany until her

entry into the United States with her

children.on 1 May 1950, proceeding to

Florida.

Residences:

1952-1955:

1418 Monroe Street, Washington,

D. C.

1952: 1459 Monroe Street, Washington, D. C.

1951:

1502 Monroe Street, Washington, D. C.

1950:

313 6th Street, East, Bradenton; Florida

Employnent:

October 1953 to at least April 1955:

Office of the Chief of Engineers,

Gravelly Point, Vashington, D. C.

Previous: to numerous to mention,

covers to 1945 in Germany, mostly

U. S. Government related.

LUCY L. MC CONCHIE

aka:

Lucille MC CONCHIE

aka: Lucy HAINES

nee: Lucy LOFLAND

Born 22. August 1886, Wilmington,

Delaware.

Spouse:

Major (U.S. Army) Thomas L.

MC CONCHIE, JI.

staff, U.

S. Army National Guard Bureau,

Organization and Training Branch: residing

at. 3023 14th Street,

N.

V., Washington,

D. C., Apartment 613

or 716.

Elizabeth CONARROE

Elizabeth LOFLAND

Mrs. Elvin H. CONARROS

AneT

---

## Page 5

13-00000

As of mid 1950's living at Mountain

Lakes, New Jersey:

As of 1950-1952

husband employed

by Metropolitan Life

Insurance, New York, and residing at

1529 Ist Avenue. lest, Bradenton,

Florida.

MATERNAL

UNCLE

William Joseph LOFLAND

Born 21 1

March 1904, Wilmington, Delaware

MATERNAL

UNCLE

Paul Osborn LOFLAND

As of 1943 at 18310 Ferguson Street,

Detroit, Michigan.

NOTE: During the 1955 background inves-

tigation of Valerie Claire LORENZ, an

informant advised that the LORENZ

family was sowehow related to General

Major General Haydon

Lemaire BOATNER, retired, is the

father of Helene Lenarie BUAWNER

(SF#253 375). Helene Lenarie BOATNER

is a current staff employee,

GS-16

Office of the Comptrolley" depth and

This

file has been reviewed in

nothing was found to show a relation-

ship between the BOATNER and LORENZ

• families.

7.

• Variations of all of the names of Ilona Maria

LORENZ and her family have been checked

against Office of

Security indices with no additional results with the exception

to a reference to the file captioned "Cuban Intelligence

Activities" (SF#350 643)• An FBI New York Office report in

this file dated 10 February 1960 captioned "Cuban Intelligence

Activities in the United States" reflects,,

in substance,

that

380R2T

---

## Page 6

13-00000

-199

Relative to LORENZ's claim in the attached

article

that she and Alex RORKE (in conjunction with the assassination

attempt against CASTRO) visited FBI offices in New York and

"conference with the two agents who had questioned her

previously and a CIA official"

it is interesting to note that

LORENZ was interviewed by SA O'Brien on 22 December 1959.

File of Alexander I• RORKE, JI.,

reflects that he was inter

viewed on 30 December 1959 by SA Francis J. 0'Brien, FBI, New

9. The above is for your information.

Brown

Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

6

CRET

---

