o4-t0216-10984

—Sntet, ME ATE C/A
oe COS fis,
— COR, Prarafurt, COS, Maarsd

_ Chget of Stata: Rorze

Bee paragraph $

1, At a 20 August 1065 meeting AMTHIP/2 was asked about
& meries of PERUMENn (15 in ell) who, he was told; are or have
bees in Rome. Included in the list at intervals were ARLASH/},
2, und 3, (BUNCE Comment: In accordance with 9 dincussion
with LANCOSCB during hin recent trip to Rome.) AMTHIP/2 vas
giver nc further i:formation and nothing about the fifteen sep
except their aapes.

A, Subject did not respond re AMLASH/3,

bd. Subject had heard AMTHIP/} and others mention
AWLASH/2, whoa Subject dows not kaow personally, He
bnee of hin only that he had bees in Paria a number of
tines a4 that he wan said to be atupid.

c. Subject knows AHLASH/} well, although not as well
fn doen ABTHIP/1, through whem AMBHIP/2 met ANLABH/1,
Bubject described AMLAS&/) aa s very complicated pers:
of confustcg and perhaps coafused loyalties. Qnce,
when AMLASH/1 eax @o Grunk and 112 that he was heading for
the bathroos to vomit, be kept shouting curses at the
AGTHUG regiee which “surdered sy son.” Sober, he is also
critical of AHTHUG. But aa scon ms anyone else is
similarly critical, AMLASH/1 immediately defends AST#GG
and his giwvertrent, AMVHIP/2 believes that ABLASH/) to
emtiozally aod psychologically mixed up and does not
kecy where he standa,

4, AMSHIP/2 usows why AMMRIP/) and AMLASH/1 mot.
(He did act state the reason and was not asked,) He keew,
however, «ly through what AMWHIP/1 volunteered, and
Rot through being present at any meetings. When these
occurred, if AMMHIP/2 chanced to be present, he left the
Foos voluntarily asd at the cutest.

