# 104-10051-10199

## Page 1

1104-70051-10199

FROM:

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

KUUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TO

1.IE/1/Finland

Ruth No

Joyner

WE/6/Canada

1202 J

x-4601

ROOM

DATE

OFFICER'S

NO.

RECEIVED FORWARDED

INITIALS

1606 I 2-415

22/6

PF,

2. Chief, vE/6

1058 I

3.

4.

RI/ DIP

5.

6.

%.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

RV/

AN

Fl

24/

Atul

SA/CE/P

COPY

RECORD

COMMENTS

"GOLUB, GRIGORY yE

COORDiNATING OFFICERS

MAME

OFFICE

WE/1/Finland

ENCLOSURE

DATE MICROFILMED

FORM

ABSTRACT

INDEX

AUTHENICATING OFFICER

NAME

Fuck agnes

Ruth N. Joyner

RELEASING

OFFICER

NAME

evela Lan

FILE NUMBER

TITLE

WE/6/Canada

TITLE

Chief, WE/6

201 - 150156

DOCUMENT DATE

26 JUN 1959

DOCUMENT NUMBER

OCON-2987

- .118

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

INFO

FROM

DISPATCH

Chief of Stationg Ottam

Chief ed Station,

CLASSIFICATION

SECUED

Codefy WE

SUBJECT

JAY Grigorly Ies HOlE and 1. MATESY

ACTION REQUIRED

Passage to Ilalson

REFERENCE(S)

CCOA-3745

SYMBOL AND NO

OCON = 29B7

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

202 - 150156 (0. Ie. 0010H)

DATE

BE 6 JUN 1959

RE: "43-3"

• (CHECK "X"' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

Maription or to at ale kerand at tood, no have coupled the falloung

2. Ee was bors about 1925 in the environ of either Odan of Kharker Fe

proudly asserted that ho was a Ukraintmi. Daring World War II ho was a colonel in

the Sayiet Ar, ww action in Ioninerad and Moscow and was wounded six times. He

claimed to be a child plychologist, Although ha looked It a procuct of peast

stock, his converation implied that he sus well edneated and knowledgeable on

diploatto attair, Harde and ement events which involve the uSe Contrarily.

his knowledge of life outside the USt was miger. He ma mried to Min Fedorovn

Rather sorroutally he explained that he and his wife would It to have children bat

30 far have not been so blossed His min interest in sports wus soling. He was very

jovial, congerial and niemed to enfoy playing hosts: It has been very ebvions that he

always picks up the check when hu dines with Werterr - even if he is not the hoste

To one source COLUB stated he bad served In Vierna, Warsaw, Badapest,

Bucharest and Sophdaj ubtle to another be stated that Felsind was hia first forsign

assigment. It is pouble that Outs mont Helenid was his "first foreign asign

ment" outside the Soviet Floe (1l he had serwed in Vierna during the occupation), or

Is could have been deliberataly attempting to comfuse.. He has corversed chiy in

Fusslan and Flurish; howver, he stated that he had attended the langrage Institute.

We suspect that he also knows an English but may feel toluctant to converse in

COLD's predecesnor was a koom RIS officur, probably 1tB. We sumpect that

COLOR 19 now the top ICB officer in Felainict. Although we have no concrete evidence

for this suspicion, we feel that dOLl's interest in Westerners generally and in

particularly in his opporite mumbers in Westers installations in Felsinid 1a more tha

would be called for by his positton.

5. DS 2014, when shown a nepaper photo of GOTs, stated that GOLUB!s face was

bat thought possdbly it might have been a technical ssstion.

Source knew that It, Col.

GOLUB was a "fairly high boas." DS. 207h could not rocall whether he had ever seen

It. Col. GOlDB to knew him so he did not know If the GOLUB in the neuphoto wan

widentical with the It. Col. COMB of the MOB.

We would apprecdate azy further infornation on GALUB wilch night mubstantlate

neur susptatons of his intelligence activities.

To We are trying to Identify positively the He MAKEY.

+ the

and london stations for more information on the MAkEuVs who have been

#assipped to these areas. FOR YOUR INFORMATION ONIX? The description of the N. HAKEY,

chon assigned to Finland, more nearly fits that of Nikolay Gerastmovich MAKSCY who was

*formerly assigned as & TASS corruspondent to Iondon from 1950 to 1953 and as Caltural

*Attache to the Soviet Bnbansy, Bom from February 1956 to about May 1957. In both

Iondon and Bomn he was suspected of engaging in Intelligence activitles.

appreciate receiving information on the N. MARTEY, now in Helsinkl, which might halp

sus to identify him.

22 June 1959

Distribation:

3 = Ottam

1 - 60S.

WE/6/Canada:RNJoyner

1 - 201-150156

1 - WE/1/Finland 2 - WE/6/Canada

CLASSIFICATION

PAUL R. CANOOD

201-15015%

PAGE NO.

10-57-543

(40)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION,

REPLACES FORMS

51-29.

AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CONNING

---

