# 104-10308-10021_1

## Page 1

T104-10308-10021

J-B-C-R-E-T

21 MUG 1955

MENDRANDUM FOR: Acting Deputy Chief, WID for Cuba

SUBJECT

: Attempted Assassination of CASTRO June 1965.

REFERENCE

: OSMA-19783, 11 August 1965

1 On returing to Múrio en 10 August, QUANTUM- 51,

who has been In havana for years, reported

that Mario SALABARRIA Agular, former Commandante in the Cuben

National Police 1944-47 and chief of Police Intelligence

(311E) 1945-47, and 2 unidentitled persons vere arrested for

consuring to till tidel CASTRO late in June or early July 1965.

Mccording

to QUANTUM-S) who talked with menbers of his family,

SALABARRIA had sworn tolavenge the death of Eufemio FERNANDEZ

Ortoge, former National Folice Captaln.

As the lender of this

conspiracy, SALAPARRIA WOrkOd CLOSelY With Dr. Bernardo MILANES

according to

ready to carfy out their plans.

SALABARRIA then advanced the

Gate set for the assassination. The conspiracy vas discovered

and he was arrostod. When his wile learned that SALABARRIA PaS

to be condenued to ccath, she went to Firel to plead for her

husband's life.

Fidel, who at one time had been thetr friend,

denied knowledge of SALABARRIA's case but assured her that his

life would be spared.

According to (QUANTUM-51), SALABARRIA's

wile knows nothing further of her husband's fate.!

2. News Of SALABARRIA's role in an abortive assassination

ittempt and of his arrest is significant confirmation of current

reports regarding

the expogure of a plot to kill CASTRO in

The Agency bas known of Mario

SALABARRIA's conspiratorial activities and personal dedication

to his role as fidel's murderer since the summer of 1963.

At

that time SALABARRIA vas secking denpons and funds for his

sought contact with AMTURVY-1,

then a minor GOC officinl.

SALABARRIA had known AMTURVY-l's brother, AMCONCERT-1, for

twenty years and he assumed that AMTURVY-1 was in touch rith the

Agency through ANCONCERT-1 in Miant. Accordingly at their first

necting in the summer of 196? In AMTURVY-4'a bar, SALABARRIA

told ANTURVY-l that he was a nember of a group which was plotting

CASTRO'& death.

He asked ANTURVY-l to help him obtain money and

weapons for this conspiracy. He emphasized, in particula is the

he needed money to purchase

vehicles which were essential

group were to succeed in their mission. In return for whatever

7112

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ANTURVY-I could furnish, SALABARRIA offered to carry out minor

sabotage actions for AMTURVY-1'g American "contacts".

A few

months later in October 1963, when we were sntisfied with

SALABARRIA's bonafides, we managed to get a few pistols,

october

revolvers and some sabotage materials into SALABARRIA's

hands

through AMTURVY-1. SALABARRIA responded with a plea for more,

but denied that he could retrieve nn arms cache from a site

on

the north const. AMTURVY-I became cynienl about SALABARRIA'S

plans

and then

in response to our instructions he abanconed

direct contact with SALABARRIA early in I964. SALABARRIA,

however, continued to see AMTURVYA who kept in touch with both

AHTURVY-1 and QUANTUM-51.)0/

Meanwhile, SALABARRIA's accomplice, Dr. Bernardo MILANES

Lopez,

prominent Havana doctor who was the personal pbysician of

CASTRO's mother for 15 years until her death in July 1963, was

recrulted in November-December 1963 while on a vialt to Madrid.

During the course of his recruitment, MILANES stated that ho

was active in a group of conspirators who were plotting to kill

CASTRO.

He alluded to disgruntled Rebel Army officers and nedical

collesgues, but he did not name SALABARRIA among those few he

identified

as persons of trust. He did, however, spell out the

groups needs for weapons, money and vehicles in order to carry

out their assassination mission.

And, he finally agreed to

serve as a colloction agent in return

for linited financial

compensation and in the apparent hope that ve Fould in time

furnish hin with sufficient funds for the needed vehicles.

Following his return to Havana In January 1964, MILANES proved

to be a fairly regular S/" correspondent, a source of soue Order

of Battle.

While he repentedly urged us

to help him obtrin the

vehicles for his group, he never disclosed to us how deeply

Involved he, hinself, was in the plot to kill CASTRO. Ne

subsequently learned that he had Informed SALABARRIA of his

recrultmont by cis in morid and thnt he had tried to persuade

SALABARRIA to work directly with him rather than with ANTUrvY-4.

1. MILANES was arrested in the company of his chauffeur

and nephew, both fully witting of his clandestine activities

for

the Agency

and presumably equally Involved in the conspirary

to kill CAstRo. From the limited evidence ncquired to late,

it appears that MILANES' arrest may have been prompted by the

blackmarketeoring of his nephew, censorship of his mail or

physical surveillance.

In any case, it is known that he had

in his possession compromisin! Agency comno equipment and S/W

naterials.

Originated by: Susan L. Darling: cm

Orig & 1- Addressee

1-- WHI/C/MO

1- - WH/C/MO/FI-CI

Walter T. Cint

C/WH/C/MO

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CIA HISTOKICAL REVIEW PROGRAMS

1363

"RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

MEAPRANDUM FOR: Acting Deputy Chief, Hu

for Cuba

SUBJECT

: Attempted Assascination of CASTRO June 1965.

REFERENCE

[022719783, 11 August 1965

Ehat

returning to Andrid ca 10 August, L 01

Jtho has been in Havana for years, reported

Marlo SALABARRIA Agular, former Coumandante in the Cuban

National Police 1944-17 and chief of Police Intelligence

(SIdE 1941, and &1 unidentitled persons vere arrested toi

conspring to kill Fidel CASTRO late in June or carly July 1965.

Ortogn, former National Police Captaln.

As the lender of this

conspiracy, SALAARK vorteL Closely with Dr. Bernardo HauNes

Lopez sha drey us the assassinaten plans aud allegedly obtaineci

monoy and veapons from the United States.

MILANES, according to

Yandly to carry out their plans.

Jintormation, was arrested before the plotters were

SALABARRIA then advanced the

cate set for the assassination.

The conspiracy ras discoverer

and he was arrestod.

When his wife learned that SALABARRIA PAS

to be conderoed to ocath, sho vent to firel to plead for ber

husband's life. Fidel, who at one time had been their friend,

denied knowledge of SALABARRIN's case but assured her that his

Ilfe would be spared.

According to L 0l

WIIe knows nothing turther of her huband'a fite.

¿ SALABARRIA 'S

2.

News Of SALABARRIA's role in an abortivo assassination

attempt and of his arrest is significant confirmation of current

reforts regarding the expogure of a plot to kill CASTRO in

Havana in June-July 1965.

The Agency has known of Marlo

SALABARRIA's conspiratorial activitles and personal dedication

to his role as fidel's nurderer since the summer of 1963. At

that time SALABARRIA Pas secking terpons and funds for his.

misslon.

Through his confidant, ANTURVY-4,

a barkeeo on the

Invans saterfront and a lomp time friend of L

sought contact nith ANTURVY-1,

then a minor GOC official.

SALABARRIA had known AUTURVY-l's brother, ANCONCERT-1, for

twenty years and ho assumed that AMTURVY-1 ras in touch rith the

Agoncy thrrugh AMCONCFR'I-1 In Miaml. Necordingly at tueir first

meeting In the summer of 196? In ANTURVY-A' bar, SALABARRIA

told ANTURVY -1

CASTRO's death. He asked ANTURVY-1 to help bia obtain money

scapons for this conspiracy. He emphasized, in particular,

veeded money to purchase vehicles shich

were essential if the

group were to succeed in their mission.

In return for whatever

1r6lCi

1:!.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

..

0-Ant 1-1-1

ANTURVY -1 could furnish, SALABARRIA offered to carry out minor

sabotage actions for ANTURVY-l's American "contacts". A

few

months later In October 1963, then we were sntisfied eith

BALABARRIA's bonafides, we managed to get a few pistols,

revolvers and some savotage materials into SALABARRIA'S

hands

through AMTURVY-1. SALABARRIA responded with a plea for more,

but denied that he could retriove nn arms cache from a site on

the north coast. ANTURVI-I became cynlenl about SALABARRIA's

plans and then in response to our instructions he abasioned

direct contact with SALABARRIA early 1n 1964.

SALABARRIA,

however, continued to see ANTURVY-d who kept in touch with both

Meanuhile, SALABARRIA's accomplice, DI. Bernardo MILANES

Lopez, prominent Havana doctor who was the personal physician of

CASTRO's mother for 15 years until her death in July 1963, was

recrulted in November-December 1903 while on a vialt to Madrio.

During the course of his recruitment, HLLANES stated that he

vas active negroup of conspirators the rese plotting to ka

CASTRO:

alluded to disgruntled Rebel Army officers and medieni

collesgues, but he did not name SALABARRIA among twose few he

identified

as persong of trust. He did, however, spell out the

Groups

needs for weapons, money and vehicles in order to carry

out their assassination mission.

And, he finally agreed to

serve is : colloction agont in return

for linited financial

compensation and in tho apparent hope that ve rould in time

furnish hin with

sufficient funds for the needed vehicles.

Following his return to Havana in January 1964, MILANES proved

to be a fairly regular 3/l correspondent, a source of soue Order

of Battle.

While he repentedly urged us

to help him obtain the

vehicles for his group, he never disclosed to us how deeply

Involved he, heelf, was in the plot to kill CASTRO. Te

subsequently learned that be had informed SALABARRIA of B13

recruitment by CIA In Madrid and that he had tried to porsusce

SALABARRIA to work directly with him rather than with ALTURVY-4.

1. MILANES was arrested in the company of his chauffeur

and acphew, both fully witting of his clandestine activities

for the Agency and presumably equally involved in the conspirary

to k111 CASTRO.

From the limited evidence

acgulred to date,

It appears that MILANES' arrest may have been prompted by the

blackmarketeoring of his nephew, censorship of his mall or

physical survolllance.

In any case, it is known that he hac

In his possession compronisin! Agency comno equipment and S/M

naterials.

Originated by: Susan L. Darling: cm

Orig & 1- Addresser

1-- WII/C/MO

I - WII/C/MO/FI-CI

Taltar T. CInt

SIOn

---

