# 104-10213-10027

## Page 1

104-10213-10027*

CLA-SIFIED MESSAGE

IS SECRET

"AULTING

141

• TO

2515-

• DIRECTOR

FROM & PARIS

$1E.=4:

Hastie

AGTIONI CAHI.

R.О. 7 -ü.::

INTO A DEI, D/OCI, DOP, C/C1, fei/sta VR • joto:

Il desiractica.

•cite

reasons and coordicate

10 DEc 63 1N 7 7 1.48

SECRET 100858Z

DIR CITE PARI 1833

FE DIR 85133"

RY944 GPFLOOR

S. TO DATE, ONLY UNPRY ITEM MENTIONING PRESIDENT KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION IS BRIEF 27 NOVEMBER EXCHANGE BETWEEN UNLIFT/2 AND

0F

GROUP. THEY OBVIOUSLY BEEN STUDYING NEVSPAPER

ARTICLE AND PHOTOS RE DALLAS EVENTS.

SAID IS THIS THE GUY

WHO KILLED HIM (KENNEDY>? WZ ANSWERED "THAT IS OSWALD BUT I DON•T

THINK HE IS ONLY ONE INVOLVED. OSWALD SHOT TO DEATH BY RUBY AND LATTER

PICKED UP 8Y DALLAS POLICE. KILLING IN USA IS SO EASILY ACCOM

PLISHED. "

20 STA CÓNMENT. FRENCH PRESS HAS GIVEN SENSATIONAL COVERAGS

TO POSSIBILITY THAI ASSASSINATION WAS MANY-ANGLED PLOT, STRESSING

"SECOND MAN IN THE VINDOW". STA INTERPRETS ABOVE AS W/2 BRIEFING

C'S COPY

201-289248

SECRET

D-200-5 BY OTHER THAN ME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBTED

Copy No

367-

-Document Number

S-727A

--5997

fOr FOIA Review on MAY 1976

---

## Page 2

CASSITIED MESSAGE ON GONE

IN 772$8

JON BASIS PRESS STORIES WE HAS READ. STA WILL CONTINUE UNPRY

COVERAGE AND REPORT ANY FURTHER RELATED COMMENTS.

3. NO INDEX.

SECRET

C/S COMMENTS. * DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT DYVOLER GAFLOOR. CABLES.::

requested. any information on assassination of

President Kennedy.

Ethical

-25

---

