eee

SENDER Wich CECH LASSIE TION FOR ARO.

UNCEASSTETED Oe ENTIAL
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL, ROUTING SLIP

PREPARE REPLY
ECOMMENDATION.

any enertthet

pc Foe COME HI BAHT


Chief, Contact Division 8% Merch 1961
Atta: Quyport: Branch (Crovley) ee deta ay

Chief, Washington Office
Interview vith AKEC Comudttee

1. at the request of Mr. Ashcraft for Melchitt, Wi Divielon,
Frank sheridan iaterviewod the camittes for AFEC at the Nashington
Field Office. oa 2 March 1961. They consisted of Abel Mestre. Victor
Pedreso, Eitrie Emabria, Lealio Pastin, Carlos Gercia del Tron, and
Paul feilnan. Mestre stated thst the organization veo founded sbout
June 1960 in Mia as 0 clandestine spalitical group with the objective
to ovurthrov Costro, to uilte the various Coben exile gious and to
crosta laws tur the effective reconstruction of Cuba. Hemberahip 43
corprised of. individaal businessaes rether than representatives of

Laxge orgent zt Lona.

2. The committee hed bewn meeting with various United States
officials ia Veshingtan, D. C., to express its views. Ite mabere
aro worried over Ceatro propagasia, xhich, although wntrue, hes beon
accepted 20 fact, 1.e., twenty thovsend killings by Zetiste and the
cloin thet Castro's vas a social revolution rether then a politicsl
ons. ‘hey polated out that the Cuban econcry woo forwerly prospering
vith en enlarging middle class, sc thet the term social revolution
hes doen used vy Castro primarily to prousie iviisi svssures- in
addition, labor lezielation vea in ‘effect which actually pot cuployers

et a disadventage with axployces, capared to the other countries of

Latin America. ‘The problem facing Cuban labor wes primarily the
peepousl ana’ crop economy. ov the pecnle Lave less pey, lesa
commodities available, no claim: agnlast enyone end serely vork for
@ Castro~Coszunist governrent. The fermer he not been helped by
egrarion reform, but hes deen odliged to enter cooperatives or to
bell his erage st controlled prices, which are pald when end how
the goverment plearcs: This is merely en imitation of viet Castro
promised.

3+ ‘The commtted fecls thet myxorters of tho revolution actually
vere seeking honcoty in goverment sd the Liverty outlined in the
1940 constitution. In thio regard, the orabers fcel thet the Cousmists
may try for e eecond round fa aay goverment feplecing Castro. Such
an interin regione mst develop careful svasures to promote true
denocratic elections. This gorummest may include covert Comamicts
ubo vould be a constant threat. For thie renson, it ves eqphestzed
end vevemphasized thut the exile leatars be nost carefully screenad
by the United States before their retumi to Ciba.


w

\ : =

4. A sejor concert bea been unittestion of the vertous exiled
fections. This has nowy started, but the ccamittes fouls that.
Yasinesmnea such.es they repredent sould be proyortionately represented
in eny new govermest during tho austere period ef reconstruction.
qhey believe thst, Bo lefists of any shaie should be included in the
provisional govermssst. ‘Dusinens representatives of the economi¢
Diesece should particigate for the first time in°Cuban politics and
should be consulted s= all etegas. i

Se hey eephesized that the problem ts not merely 6 Cuben one,
put fe o Qrsamist springboard against the tnited States. ‘They urget.
that the United @tates éo vist they, the bufinessms, failed to do in
Cuba ~ to teke the ofirmsive. in Cubs heave followed the
classic Casmmist tectniques, so’ thet it sdauld rot be difficult to
@nticipats future mores. United States prepegenin mst ba overhauled.
It ehould be less pesstve emi rore affectively ascresaive. To date,
propagenda bes been the Comamiste’ most effective veapan and the
Tmibed States has lost to the point that tt ts threatened by a sericua
Joos of respect in Latia Auaricn. Although it bas long been the basis
fesel sotel, some Latins are dagiining to wonder whether they aro right
shout tha United Staten end whether they stocld mitch aides. Fidel
Castro won hie revoliition By proyagania mai not by am.

6. tha rinary worry of the committee scons to be the lefist
erieatation of leaders vbo-bavu taken over the government in exile

recent days. Fhey ephasised that Oda pecs a denocratic

i oni iy fees ¢ tyemny of the right or the left. ‘The
United Stetes mast realise that some of tht exile leadero partici patsd

s chatavers tn th: Castro qovemment ent night try to consinue sazo

‘af-tha bed eapects of the Castro progres

T Silvio Samehria commented thet» although CIA appeared to bo
in touch with all of tbe other Cuban gross, no one bad approached
his orguaisction to essist or to learn whet tt vas doing. ‘The whole
caanittee offered to be of any poostbie asgistence to CIA et. any tine.
So effort wae made to solicit information er funds fron CIA durlag
this seseloa. :

Fe J. Suriden

Pnclooures: 3 ARZC documents



Uvpph 3 TA EAT BACON



4



i

acess beer Cr ee net



