SECRET

SENSIND:

SECRET

CONF: OPA INFO: AS8/CGCD, A58/GCCOMP, A58/GCENG, AS58/GCOPS,
AS8/SD, ACIS/PS, ACIS/RIM, ACIS/TM, APLA/ADMIN, APLA/D, ARC/FSGH, ARC/HQ,
ARC/HQHRG, ARC/HQLOGS, ARC/R, ATS/CSC, ATS/CSCAD, ATS/DCCGOD, AUDIT,
AUDIT7, C/ACIS, C/NR, C/OMA/PEMS, CIC/CEG, CIC/IRCB, CLAN/TOG, CMS1, COMPT,
CRES/PEG, D/OGC, D/OMS, D/OTE, DA/CSC, DA/CSC/SCG, DA/WWSB, DC/AF, DCI/CSE,
DDA, DDA/MSPRB, DDI, DDST, EOC/NOCPER, EXDIR/ICA, FBIS/COL, FSS/AB1,
FSS/BF, FSS/CD, FSS/FMG, FSS/OD, FSS/OD1, FSS/ODIR, FSS/PPG, FSS/REB,
FSS/SSG, FSS/SSG1, HRM/DIR, HRM/RCCTD, HRM/SBGWFC, HRS/CDT, IG, IS/CUBIS,
ISO, LIMITED, MDSX, NCI/OPS, NDDORECORD, NESAF/D, NHTC/PEMS, NIMA/CHRNI,
NIMA/CN, NIMA/CNCN, NIMA/CNN, NIMA/COMMO, NIMA/SUE, NR/EX, NROC, OAP/DIR,
OC/AMG, OC/AOBAM, OC/AOBAS, OC/AOBEU, OC/AOBMEA, OC/APB, OC/BF, OC/CDAS,
OC/CLS, OC/CSED, OC/DDIR, OC/DIR, OC/EG, OC/EXA, OC/FFD, OC/FIELD, OC/FISG,
OC/FMB, OC/HOB, OC/MLS, OC/MPB, OC/NMB, OC/OG, OC/PBB, OC/PERS, OC/RMS ,
OC/SOD, OC/SRD, OC/SS, OC/TLD, OC/TNG, OC/TSB, OCA, ODDI/AS, ODDI/HRS,
ODDI/ILS, ODDI/PES, ODDI/SEC, ODDI/VIPM, ODE/NROIMO, ODE/PAD, ODE/PERS,
ODED, ODPV, OFL/AC, OFL/ACFST, OFL/AM, OFL/BF, OFL/CCC, OFL/CCCBS,
OFL/CCCCA, OFL/CCCRE, OFL/CTS, OFL/DDIR, OFL/DIR, OFL/FSDFSC, OFL/HRS,

| OFL/LOC, OFL/LSD, OMA/CEG, OMA/CSG, OMA/TIG, OMS/AMD, OMS/BF, OMS/CG, Ny
OMS/DIR, OMS/EAP, OMS/ESG, OMS/EXO, OMS/EXS, OMS/EXTMED, OMS/FSS, OMS/LOGS,

OMS/MHD, OMS/MSD, OMS/PERS, OMS/RAD, OPA/ICB, OPS/BF, OPS/DPS, OPS/PG, )
OPS/SD, ORD/AMRD, ORD/COTD, ORD/CS, ORD/CTG, ORD/DIR, ORD/EPG, ORD/ETD,

i ORD/ISRD, ORD/ISRG, ORD/MS, ORD/SED, ORD/SO, OREA/D, OSS/D, OSS/IPT,

OTC/ASD, OTC/CEC, OTC/DIR, OTC/IMO, OTC/MPG, OTE/EXO, OTE/KCAT, OTE/PDD, 4

OTE/REG, OTI/D, OTS/CHRONO, OTS/DIR, OTS/ORG, OTS/RDS, PWSTAFF/MF,

SA/DCIFIR, SBNOVA, SCS/HQ, FILE, ODDI/PESBF, C/NHTC, ADCI/MS, C/AF, C/CE, }
cs C/EUR, C/LA, C/NE, FSS/ODIR1 (11/P)

ist seus easunsaeuuadaseaaaudadeadsaulTsdnesensquennasennqneeeanenea@enry=en7=eqpene>re=farsncereeerrafo- acess ceccscesa cod
98 2273603 ASP PAGE 001 }

TOT: 311440Z JUL 98

SECRET
STAFF 311440Z DIRECTOR 915999
TO: PRIORITY OPA NEWS

FROM: LIMITED-DISSEM OPA. INFO OfD/PER

a

REF: NONE.
TEXT:

ACTION REQUIRED: AS DESCRIBED BELOW:

SECRET



SNIDER BECOMES INSPECTOR GENERAL;

FAMILY DAY 1998 SCHEDULED FOR SEPTEMBER 12;

DDI ANNOUNCES CREATION OF THE OFFICE OF POLICY SUPPORT;
DCI SSCI TESTIMONY ON RUMSFELD REPORT AVAILABLE;
RECENTLY PUBLISHED POLICY ISSUANCE AND EMPLOYEE BULLETIN;

IDEN A TO SERVE AT NATIONAL DRUG INTELLIGENCE CENTER

2. SNIDER BECOMES INSPECTOR GENERAL;

ON JULY 30, THE SENATE CONFIRMED BRITT SNIDER AS THE AGENCY'S
INSPECTOR GENERAL.

3. FAMILY DAY 1998 SCHEDULED FOR SEPTEMBER 12;

THE 19TH ANNUAL FAMILY DAY WILL BE HELD ON SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 12,
1998, FROM 9 A.M. TO 3 P.M. FAMILY MEMBERS ELIGIBLE TO ATTEND INCLUDE
SPOUSES, CHILDREN, PARENTS, STEPPARENTS, SIBLINGS, GRANDPARENTS,
GRANDCHILDREN, SISTERS/BROTHERS-IN-LAW, PARENTS-IN-LAW,
FIANCEES/FIANCES, SIGNIFICANT OTHERS, NIECES, NEPHEWS, AUNTS, AND
UNCLES. EMPLOYEES HAVING BLUE-BORDER BADGES, CONTRACT/CONTRACTOR
EMPLOYEES HOLDING GREEN-BORDER BADGES, AND DETAILEES FROM OTHER
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND THE MILITARY SERVICES WHO POSSESS CIA BLUE
BADGES MAY BRING WITTING MEMBERS OF THEIR FAMILIES AS NOTED ABOVE

NOT ELIGIBLE TO ATTEND ARE COUSINS, GODPARENT GODCHILDREN, FRIENDS,
AND ROOMMATES. NON-CIA EMPLOYEES POSSESSING INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
BADGES DO NOT HAVE ESCORT PRIVILEGES AND, THEREFORE, MAY NOT BRING
FAMILY MEMBERS TO THIS EVENT. FOREIGN NATIONALS (NON-US CITIZENS),
INCLUDING THOSE WHO FALL WITHIN ANY OF THE CATEGORIES LISTED ABOVE,
WILL NOT BE PERMITTED ENTRY.

THE SPONSORING INDIVIDUAL (AGENCY EMPLOYEE) MUST NOT BRING MORE
FAMILY MEMBERS TO FAMILY DAY THAN S/HE IS ABLE TO MANAGE. FAMILY
MEMBERS MUST BE UNDER THE SPONSORING INDIVIDUAL’S SUPERVISION
THROUGHOUT THEIR ATTENDANCE AT FAMILY DAY.

WHAT'S NEWS WILL PROVIDE FAMILY DAY INFORMATION AS THE PLANNING
COMMITTEE SCHEDULES AND CONFIRMS EVENTS.

4. DDI ANNOUNCES CREATION OF THE OFFICE OF POLICY SUPPORT;

DDI JOHN MCLAUGHLIN HAS ANNOUNCED THE CREATION OF THE OFFICE OF
POLICY SUPPORT (OPS), WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO BE IN OPERATION WITHIN
THE NEXT TWO MONTHS. THE NEW OFFICE WILL CONSIST ENTIRELY OF EXISTING
COMPONENTS WITHIN THE CURRENT OFFICE OF THE DDI (ODDI): THE
OPERATIONS CENTER; THE PRESIDENT’S ANALYTIC SUPPORT STAFF (PASS); THE
INTELLIGENCE. LIAISON STAFF; THE INFORMATION POLICY AND RELEASE STAFF;
AND- -RECGENTHY RE ESTABLISHED PRODUCT EVALUATION-STAFF—(PES)
WILL ALSO INCLUDE MOST DI REPRESENTATIVES TO POLICY AGENCIES AND _

SECRET


SECRET

273603 (SENSIND PAGE: 3

QVERSEAS POSTS. A VACANCY NORICE WILL BE ISSUED SOON FOR
*(5/OBS.

EATING OPS FOR SEVERAL REASON:

MCLAUGHLIN EXPLAINED, "WE ARE

/-FIRST, WE NEED TO PAY INCREASED ATTENTION TO HOW THE DI SUPPORTS A |
RANGE OF KEY CUSTOME! IMPROVING SUPPORT TO THE POLICYMAKER AND THE
MILITARY IS A CRITICAL AREA OF INVESTMENT FOR THE DIRECTORATE’S
FUTURE, AND CREATION OF OPS REPRESENTS A STEP IN THIS DIRECTION. BOTH
THE OPS CENTER AND PASS, FOR EXAMPLE, HAVE BEEN UNDERTAKING MAJOR
EFFORTS TO IMPROVE THEIR DELIVERY OF DI PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, AND
(THEY WILL BENEFIT FROM INCREASED DAY-TO-DAY ATTENTION OF AN OFFICE
|DEDICATED TO HELPING THEM REACH THOSE GOALS. SIMILARLY, WE ARE
EXPECTING THE NEW OFFICE TO PROVIDE THE RIGHT SETTING FOR PES--WHICH
iS TO HELP US EVALUATE HOW WE SERVE THE CONSUMER--TO GET ON ITS FEET
RAPIDLY

--OPS WILL ALSO, FOR THE FIRST TIME, PROVIDE A FOCAL POINT FOR
SUPPORTING DI REPS BOTH HERE AND ABROAD. AS THAT EFFORT BECOMES MORE
IMPORTANT BOTH FOR CUSTOMER SUPPORT AND EXPERTISE DEVELOPMENT, WE
INBED TO BRING MUCH GREATER ATTENTION TO ENSURING THAT OUR PEOPLE ARE
JEFFECTIVELY DEPLOYED AND THAT THEY GET THE BACKING THEY NEED. RIGHT
INOW, MOST REPS HAVE NO SINGLE PLACE TO GO FOR SUPPORT; OPS WILL
ENSURE THAT THEY DO. MEANWHILE, OPS WILL WORK WITH THE DI‘S COUNCIL
OF INTELLIGENCE OCCUPATIONS TO DEVELOP DIRECTORATE POLICIES ON WHERE
REPS WILL BE MOST USEFULLY STATIONED.

~-FINALLY, THE CURRENT ODDI IS TOO BIG. AT MORE THAN PEOPLE, IT
IS ALMOST AS LARGE AS SOME LINE DI COMPONENTS, TAKING VALUABLE TIME
AWAY FROM ADDI WINSTON WILEY AND ME IN FOCUSING. ON THE NEEDS OF THE
DI AT LARGE. ESTABLISHING OPS WILL MAKE THE REMAINING ODDI MORE
MANAGEABLE, ALLOWING US TO FOCUS MORE INTENTLY ON THE RIGHT RANGE OF
SUBSTANTIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE ISSUES.

I WANT TO STRESS, HOWEVER, THAT OPS IS NOT GOING TO TAKE LARGE
AMOUNTS OF RESOURCES FROM THE REST OF THE DIRECTORATE NOR IMPEDE
DIRECT COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE DDI/ADDI AND KEY OPERATIONS SUCH AS
THE PRESIDENF'S DAILY BRIEF (PDB) ALL OF THE UNITS COMPOSING THE
OFFICE ALREADY EXIST, AND THE NEW FRONT OFFICE WILL CONSIST OF A
|DIRECTOR--NO DEPUTY -AND LITERALLY A HANDFUL OF ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL,
INCLUDING AN<EXECUTIVE>OFFICER (EXO). OTHERWISE, OPS AND THE ODDI
WILL CONTINUE TO SHARE THE SAME SUPPORT STAFF, AND THEY WILL BOTH
[LOOK AT WAYS TO MAKE THEIR OPERATIONS MORE EFFICIENT. IN THIS WAY, BY
MAKING A SMALL INVESTMENT IN A MORE FOCUSED MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE,
INSTON AND I BELIEVE WE CAN HELP POSITION THE DI TO SERVE THE
'USTOMER BETTER--WHETHER IT’S THE PDB RECIPIENT, THE DCI AND DDCI,
THE POLICYMAKER RECEIVING CLOSE SUPPORT FROM A DI REP, OR THE WIDE
IGE OF OTHER OFFICIALS WHO COUNT ON OUR LIAISON AND INFORMATION
RELEASE STAFFS TO HANDLE AN EVER-INCREASING WORKLOAD EFFECTIVELY."

5. DCI SSCI TESTIMONY ON RUMSFELD REPORT AVAILABLE;

OTHE_SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

fHE RUMSFELD COMMISSTON—RERORT_ON THE

BALLISTIC MISSILE THREAT TO THE-US-—THE_TEXT OF HIS TESTIMONY IS
SECRET



“EVATEABLE_IN THE SPEECHES /DOCUMENTS VIEW-OF~THE-OPA-DATABAS -ON_LOTUS

NOTES.
6. RECENTLY PUBLISHED POLICY ISSUANCE AND EMPLOYEE BULLETIN;

THE FOLLOWING POLICY ISSUANCE AND EMPLOYEE BULLETIN WERE |
ELECTRONICALLY POSTED DURING JULY 21 - 27:

L_aR ‘20-27, TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. (THIS REGULATION WAS REVISED |
to PROVIDE CURRENT POLICY FOR CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH AGENCY

EMPLOYMENT MAY BE TERMINATED-AND—PROVEDES FOR~T! MANNER—EN—-WHICH.
SUCH_EMPLOYMENT TERMINATIONS MAY BE EFFECTED.)

| --OIM BB_NO. 02-98,/ FINAL DOCUMENT SEARCH TO ASSURE COMPLIANCE WITH J }49
*¥" PRES IDENT<JOHN>F. <KENNEDY ASSASSINATION>RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF [ #8
*1992"< (JFK>ACT) !

THESE DOCUMENTS ARE IN THE REGULATORY REPOSITORY AND EMPLOYEE
BULLETIN DATABASES. EMPLOYEES WITHOUT ACCESS TO LOTUS NOTES SHOULD

CONTACT THEIR COMPONENT DISTRIBUTION OFFICERS FOR COPIES. FOR URTHER
INFORMATION, PLEASE CALL THE fRSGULATORY-SERVICES~GROUP;CENTE)
SUPPORT COORDINATION, ON X5 20077

7" JDEN A TO SERVE AT NATIONAL DRUG INTELLIGENCE CENTER;

IDEN A HAS BEEN SELECTED TO BE THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, INTELLIGENCE
DIVISION, AT THE NATIONAL DRUG INTELLIGENCE CENTER (NDIC) IN
JOHNSTOWN, PENNSYLVANIA. IDEN A WHO SPEAKS SPANISH, FRENCH, AND
HORTUGUESE, SERVED STX TOURS IN LATIN AMERICA AND AFRICA--TWO AS
DEPUTY CHIEF OF STATION/BASE AND TWO AS CHIEF OF STATION. SHE HAS
TRAVELED EXTENSIVELY IN LATIN AMERICA, AFRICA, AND THROUGHOUT EUROPE.
SHE MOST RECENTLY SERVED AS DEPUTY NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE OFFICER FOR
LATIN AMERICA IN THE NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE COUNCIL.

vile CHIEF OF THE CRIME AND NARCOTICS CENTER (CNC) TOLD WHAT'S NEWS,
"y) HAVE MADE IT A PRIORITY TO DEVELOP A CLOSER PARTNERSHIP WITH NDIC
AND IN DISCUSSIONS WITH NDIC‘S DIRECTOR, BOTH OF US DECIDED THAT THE
ASSIGNMENT OF A SENIOR CIA OFFICER TO NDIC WOULD BRING US EVEN CLOSER
TOGETHER. IDEN A WAS THE IDEAL CHOICE GIVEN HER SKILLS AND
BACKGROUND AS DEPUTY NIO FOR LATIN AMERICA AND AS AN EXPERIENCED
SENIOR OPERATIONS OFFICER. NDIC IS REFINING ITS MISSION TO INCLUDE
NATIONAL STRATEGIC ASSESSMENTS OF THE DRUG THREAT IN THE US. THE NEW
INPELLIGENCE ARCHITECTURE REVIEW, STILL IN DRAFT FORM VALIDATES THIS
MISSION FOR NDIC. WE IN CNC AND THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY (IC)
WELCOME THIS DEVELOPMENT. AS THE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF NDIC,
INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, SHE WILL OVERSEE THE MAIN ANALYTIC EFFORT AT
NDC, INCLUDING A YEARLY NATIONAL THREAT ASSESSMENT. THE EXPECTATION
{S| THAT WITH THOROUGH ANALYSIS AND UNDERSTANDING OF THE DOMESTIC
THREAT, I.B., THOSE KEY FOREIGN DRUG TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATIONS
CONTROLLING DRUG TRADE IN THE US, WE WILL BE IN A BETTER POSITION TO
TRACE THE LINKS TO THEIR PARENT ORGANIZATIONS ABROAD, AND BETTER
FOCUS OUR OWN FOREIGN COLLECTION, ANALYTIC, AND OPERATIONAL EFFORTS.
| WE| HAVE ALREADY WORKED JOINTLY WITH NDIC_ON_TWO_IMPORTANT IC
BROJECTS; A COMPREHENSIVE ANALYSIS DRUG TRAFFICKING THROUGH THE

CARTBREAN AND LINKAGES TO DOMINICAN, COLOMBIAN,—AND_OTHER
ae: earerreseteten cae
— ~ SECRET



SECRET
SENSIND

WEZATIONS DISTRIBUTING THE DRUGS IN~THE~US;—AND-A-—DAPER—ON—1
GROWING THREAT OF RUSSIAN ORGANIZED CRIME IN THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE,
INCLUDING, OF COURSE, THE US. WE HOPE TO DO MORE OF THESE KINDS OF
JOINT PROJECTS IN THE FUTURE--THAT IS, CONNECTING THE DOTS BETWEEN
FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC THREATS--WITH NDIC AND THE REST OF THE
INTELLIGENCE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT COMMUNITIES. IDEN A WILL BE A KEY
PLAYER IN HELPING TO MAKE THIS HAPPEN AND WE ARE DELIGHTED THAT SHE
HAS ACCEPTED THIS ASSIGNMENT."

CL BY: 0668446, CL REASON: DECL ON: DRV FROM:
MULTIPLE CATEGORIES

CABLETYPE cant BASESTAFF 1.5 .>
RELNO: 000000123

oo
SECRET

PEND OF MESSAGE

SECRET
