# 104-10166-10112

## Page 1

104-10166-10112

wave is..

SECRET

WVC 65-373

& SEP E'S

yue

AIMORANDUM FOR: ChJ08, Ml Diyision

SUBJECT

Meeting with Luia CONTE Agdero

Date:

i September 1965: CaBe

Officer:

1.

A three hour meeting was hold with Subjoct this

morning.

The purpose of the meeting was to impress upon

Bubject the need to follow KUBARK direction concerning

the aftermath of recent developments in the Dominican

Republic®

?.

Subject roported the following: He talked by

telephone on 31

August with McGoorge Bundy.

Subject's

interpretation of this conversation was that McGeorge

Bundy Invited him to come to Washington.

He also stated

that he had asked Bundy to arrange.for a moeting for him

with the Prosident of the U. S.

He did not explain to

Bundy the real purpose for wishing a meeting with the

President.

All he told Bundy was that ho wanted to give

the President the original copy of Imbert's resignation.

What Subject really wants is to tell the President that

Imbert has a proposal for provoking an attack upon the

Cuban Government Involving

the Armed Forces of the

Dominican Republic.

Imbert's personal message

to the

President (which Subject is to convey) is that the

Dominican Armed Forces are ready to engage in war against

Cuba, 11 the Dominican

support.

Armed Forces have corst U. S.

Subject said that as of 1330 hours soday he

had not heard from Bundy, but he had heard from Robort A.

Etevenson of ARA/CCA and he was to noot with Stevenson

some time this afternoon.

As for the meeting planned

with Btevenson, Subject was completely indifferent since

he did not consider Stevenson sufficiently high in U. s.

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduoe

VIN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

officialdom to be of real use.

Similarly, Subject sa11

that he would not reveal Imbert's proposal to lGeorge

Bundy, but would only deliver this proposal orally to

the President.

Tho Case Officer persuaded Subject to give him

a copy of the Imbert resignation (attached herewith with

photos

and newspaper clippings) and told Subject that the

Case Officer would send these by messenger to the white

House and would inform the President that Subject has a

proposal to convey to the Prosident from Imbert.

The

Case Officer impressed upon Subjoct that it was

not at

all likely a meeting could bo arranged with the President.

Finally, Subject sald he would wait until tomorrow after-

moon or not later than Saturday and,

if no meeting could

be arranged, he would roturn to Miami.

In the course of the conversation it became

apparent that Subject's personal roason for desiring a

meeting with the President 18 not so much to convey the

Imbert message but to have himsolf photographed with the

President and to dorive publicity which would enhance

Subject's personal prestige among the members of the

•*1le Cuban community.

The Case Officer berated Subject, who responded

good naturedly,

on his uncoordinated and

action as outlined above and told Subject that he was

only hurting his position with KUBARK, particularly if

It became known among newspapermen that he was & KUBARK

Subject said he

was sure this would not become

and he could handle this aspoct of the problen.

Subject also said that if his Case Officer in Miami was

wahappy with his bohavior, Subject was willing to resign.

He said further he had just rocently recolvnd an offer

I|| for & combined radio/television program from a Caracas,

venezuela station making an

offer of $5,000 per month.

‚Subject's KUBARK Siary 1e 93,000 per month..

Subject finally agrood that ha would coorcinate

with the present Case Officor in Washington prior to

any discussions with newspapor people here ur with Govern-

ment people and that ho would roport on mentings to the

Case Officer.

SECRET

-..

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CECRET

8.

Stevenson has bee informed by WH/C that he

is to

tell

Subject (1f a seeting takes place) that

Subject is to contact his Case

Officer in Washington.

Another meeting is

scheduled with Subject before his

departure for Miar..

As the situation now stands it

1s unlikely that Subject will have any contacts with

Government officials

with the possible exception of

Etevenson®

The present Case Officer has impressed upon

Subject the lick of wisdom in his present benavior, the

danger of blowing himself and the consequences that

would follow.

Subject appeared to have understood the

gravity of the situation and expressed willingness to

cooperate, at least for the present.

he т. Flyn

JOHN T. FLYNN

ADC/WH/C

Attachments:

Resignatlon

Photos

Newspaper clippings

SECRET

---

