# 104-10093-10043

## Page 1

104-10093-10043

/ QURECTOR -

ROM ....

MEXICE CITY

ADOP, RF

VR

(SUSPENSE DD/1)

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

LYL

ONL

SECRET

162035Z

DIR INFO SAGO PARI CITE MEXI 6560

REF. MEXI 5443 (IN

36020)

MEXI SA20 (IN 35080)

INTEL (ESLARD)

RIPTATA SOURCE LIFEAT. NO INDEXINE.

5HF0 1630287

160c7 63 14 4 1 453

C/S COMMENT: "DISSEMINATION APPLICABI

TO RYBAT ESLAND CABLES.

DEDOPT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM UNM-7997 MEXICO/GUATEMALA/

FANCE/CHILE SURJECT TRAVEL PLANS OF JUAN JOSE AREVALO PERMEJO

DOI 10 TO LA OCT 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 15 OOT E3 APP 2 SOUPCE

1. ON 14 OCTORER 1953 JUAN JOBÉ APEVALO REPMEJO, FOPMEP

PRESIDENT OF GUATAMALA

NOW LIVING IN MEGACO, SAID THAT ME MOULE

LEAVE MEXICO ON 17 OCTOPER. ON THIS OCCASION ADEVALO DID NOT

SPECIFY WHETHER HE WOULD GO DIRECTLY TO CHILE, OP TO PARIS FIRST.

?. ON 11 OCTOBER AREVALO HAD TOLD FRIENDS THAT HE HAD FECEIVED

AN LIPGENT MESSAGE FROM THE UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC, SCIENTIFIC AND

CAL TURAL OPGANIZATION CUNESCOS, AND THAT HE WAS LEAVING FOR CHILE

ON FITHEP 15 OP 17 OCTORER. ON 12 OCTOOTE AREVALO TOLD FEIENCS

THAT VINESCO HAD APPOINTED HIM TO TEACH IN SANTIAGO DE CHILE FOS

ONE YFAR AT AN INSTITUTE OF MICHEO LEARNING. ME SATE IT WAS AL

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER

00206

-

---

## Page 2

TO

PROM A

ACTION.

INFO

IN 414553

MEX 4 6560

SChOOL

OF MOVE NALISA OPERATEPLRY UNESCO. 'AREVALO SAID HE DID NOT

WANT ANY PUALICITY ABDUT MIS TRIP.

3.

ON 10 OCTORER MPS. AREVALO MAD TOLD A FRIEND THÁT AREVALO

WAS BOING TO PARIS, AUT SHE AND THE FAMILY WOULD MOVE TO SANTIAGO

DE. CHILE. SHE EXFRESSED TIE WISH THAT HER HUSBAND COIRD HAVE

REEN APPOINTED TO A UNESCO POST IN MEXICO CITY. SHE SAID HE WOLD

TRY TO NEGOTIATE THIS POINT WHEN HE GOT TO PARIS.

FIELD COMENT. IT WAS NEPORTED EARLINE THAT ANOVALÜ FLANNEL

TO LEAVE MEXICO FOR PARIS IN MID-OCTORER IN CONNECTION WITH A

POSITICN WITH UNESCO, AREVALO HAD INDICATED HE EXPECTED TO BE

SENT TO CHILE BY UNESCO. EARLIER AREVALO MAD PLANNED TO LEAVE

ME XICO OM 19 OCTOPEP.

5. FIFID DISSEM STATE FRI IENS CINCSO.

SECRET

ONL

TAM THE CH

OFFICE IS PRONIES

0206 k

---

