# 104-10406-10139

## Page 1

110410406-10139 °

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER 1II

15 November 1974

ANNEX B

THE 201 SYSTEM

Rescission: Anner B of Chapter III, CSHB 70-1-I, 27 October 1966

1. INTRODUCTION

The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific in-

terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent

information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying

subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for

producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-.

tively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify

opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and

CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-

zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volune of corre-

spondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a. The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1234567, assigned to each

individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that

individual.

b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form

S31) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e., per-

sonal history, current status, and prospects.

c. The Master 201 Record: a machine record generated by the opening of

a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Indes and

stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved' for special listings.

d. Main Inder Muster 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an

Tuder Search Request, is printed as illustrated below.

when data are absent

within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be inoved up and the rei-

erence consolidated.

23

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER IlL, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

WILLIAM PENDLETON

POB GERM,

SO GET SEEN

"REE AACS-12345,

20 JUN 53

OCC CODE CHE

SUBTECT RECENTLY ATTENDED THE SEVENTEENTA ANNUAI

CONTETEICE OF THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHEMISE

PIAZUACISTS HELD IN MUNICH, GERMANY FROM 22 THROUGH

29 OCTOBER.

NOV 70

00833555

THRONE 87M 21.

TYPE NAME T

RCD DATE 53

Information About Subject

1. Sequence Number and Name

2. Sex and Date of Birth

3. Citizenship

4. Place of Birth

5. Occupation

8. Occupation Code

7. Text

Document Reference Data Group

8. 201 Number

9. Name Type Indicator

10. Ol Codes

11. Record Date (year unly)

12. Refereace

ISC Control Information

13. Date of latest update of the record

14. STAR Index Record Number

24

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

e. Ol Code: a two letter symbol used in conjunction with the 201 per-

sonality records in the 201 syster to record the association of an individual

with organizations or activities of operational interest. OI codes cover intelli-

gence and security service affiliation, whether staff or agent, or known or

suspect, as well as activities of DDO interest. There are two categories of OI

codes for use by components:

(1) general Ol codes (Attachment 4)

(2) O1 codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services

or other specific organizations.

A, 201 personality may be assigned to O1 codes. An O1 code may be assigned

when the 201 Personality, File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see

paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added

at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201

personalities by OI codes. For example, if an Ol code has been opened for the

security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members

f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on

names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers

exist.

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER

a. General

The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational.com-

porient, in coordination with the Information Services Group. An opening creates

a master 201 record. Changes to the master record and the occasional closing

of a 201 dossier are controlled jointly by the desks and ISG. 201 dossiers may be

opened on persons who meet the carding criteria described in Chapter II of this

handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information

will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on

persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and ger-

sors of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those

persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals

are requested (see exception below), 201 files are not to be opened on staft

emplojees, staif agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on

25

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

: :

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk

and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO

records system and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require

ments on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain categories of persons whose

names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listed in Attachment 2 201.

dossiers should be opened in the following categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval and operational ap-

proval requests. However, a file need not be opened when a POA is requested

for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-

tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening:

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities:

bonafide diplomats of other than

denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Main Inder search reveals information in five

or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/

ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting o 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting

a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main-

tenance Section (IP/RVS). Form 831 is also used to create or amend the

master 201 record and 20l machine listings and to register the assign-

ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of sample

201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 20l's. A field

station may request the opening of a 201 file by writing 201- in the Head-

quarters file or cross-reference box on the dispatch form and/or after the

subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening

is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by

placing 201- after the term. "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AV

will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or teleporch but it is the resconsi-

bility of the des!: to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified ne

201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

* Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into •

his dossier. When additional information-is discovered on a 201 subject through

a name trace or other process, i.e., review of predecessor documents, it must

be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOI 70-20 for consolidation

procedures.

Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited to:

a. 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831).

b. Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints, and

handwriting samples.

?

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II.

d. Operational and other-security- approvals.

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

j. Secrecy agreement.

j. Agent Duty Status Report.

k. Training and evaluation.

I. SGSWIRL report.

m. Newspaper clippings.

n. Any information which helps provide a better understanding of the

subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting.

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which

have been made i part of the Central Records System as well as those which

have not. Record ducuments may range from newspaper or magazine articles

on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.

26.1

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

a Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires

discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material,

rather than the

simple distiaction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take

place under the supervision of a Records Officer.

Purging should be done

periodically. A 201 dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should

be purged A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:

(1) Duplicate material, ie., exact copy (s) of a document.

(2) Name trace form (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for

the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information

a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number

then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch

cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information

contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is

by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to be retained in a 201 dossier

forwarded to Central Files; the document must be doingraded for retention

in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized

officer in the originating office or the Records Officer having jurisdiction

over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification

authority. If the document cannot be downgraded the file should be retained

at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained

in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a

cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location

of the TS document.

(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order

In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201

26.2

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000.

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash

number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

(2) Deferred documents will nöt be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are

to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to IP/RMS for classification

into that 201.

(3) Fieid inder cards (held by some desks) and area desk cards may

be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards

should be mounted on a full-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201..

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff

employee and which contains Record Copy documents will be, restricted to

the ISG/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be

closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the trie

name 201-if-one exists or converted to the tre name."

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest

should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material

has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified

to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an

OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and

Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing

(8) Desk memoranda (with or without a document source number)

containing substantive or derogatory information on the subject of the 201

should be sent to IP/AN to be classified officially into the 201 file.

(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic document

for inclusion in a 201 personality dossier will be forwarded with the basic

document to IP/AN for processing inta the 201.

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a decument

remaining in a 201 dossier being reared to Central Piles, Diace chat document

-in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBIT, P&L,

or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will

automatically be handled as desersitized. A black-taped.envelope may. con-

tain only one document and must be filed in chronological orrier within the

file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-

tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOI 70-10).

25.3

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers

with black-taped documents will be

handled as restricted dossiers.

(Il). An inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201

•" dossier on permanent charge should be-retured to Central Files under a

Routing and Recard Sheet with the notation shown below. :

UNCLASSIFIED

O CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEFT

JEAN'SHTIL OF INACTIVE 20L DOSSIERS

SECRET

2/111en

CC -52

(por

gulenace

see eSte 70-I-1,-

Chapter III, Assex B.)

Volumo (0) +

of 201-.

_ Tolute(s)

Restrictod Dosaler

(Astaca Porn 2021 to

MOABIOTE

Non-Restricted Dosaler

For S311: Charge Doastors:

All lausents prior to

109%

AIGE

EX SECRET

O CONFIDENTIAL

• UXCLASSIFIED

26.4

SECRET

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any

period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk

officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.

Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer of Document or File Account-

ability (Form 29T7) to the new action desk officer.

CONFIDENTIAL

Bad 8ed 1D

MOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY

TO:

Ta!s 18 to not1iy you that accountability for the document(s) and/or file(s) cited

below has been transferred to you by:

I?'s records now reflect you as the custodian.

EIT.

Please contact IP/Files,

Ext. 4362,

SUBJECY OF REQUEST

PILE NO.

DOC, STAROL o MUMER DOC. DATE

TRANSPAR

жир. 0.

00, 72000

г.9y 2377 •16 00

CONFIDENTIAL

CL. BY, 007677

The new action desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action

Request (Form 313) to change the action desk designation to insure that the

201 personality will be included in the Headquarters and field machine listings

for his component.

7. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS

a. Access to a sensitive 201 dossier may be restricted by holding the file at the

desk or placing it on restriction in Central Files.

(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking Bor 2

the 201

Personality File iction Request (Form 331) when the file is opened

26.5

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

(2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge

from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being

returned to Central Files for rétention, a

File Restriction Notice (Form

2021) must accompany the dossier.)

(3) The dossier may be restricted and held in Central Files by sub-

mitting a File Restriction Notice (Form 2021).

CONFIDENTIAI

THATSALS

IP/FI

•CC-52

TUSE IT 6

IP/DCU

GC -40

TURE FI

ACTION DESI:

FILE RESTRICTION NOTICE

To restries a file, complore Section A (siganture of R.Q. not

necessary).

To remove a restrictlõn, complete Section 3 (RO, lanature

necessary).

SECTICA

PES 3ICT TO: (Use country of con-country code nurber. See CSI 70-28)

RESTRICIES BY: -

carcow:

- Date:

SPOTIAL a

FELOVE RESTRICTION (AUTEORIZS) BY)

COPOTETT:

2079 2021 21:

CONFIDENTIAL

Date:

R.0. Ro.

8.9, IMPOST CL EV, C63383

b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the

personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request

for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier

hold in Central Files will be forivarded with the entire dossier and a multiple

ronted cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then fervard the file

- to the requester or deny the request and retura the dossier to Conal Files. The

"dest will notify the requester of a denial.

r. Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document within a restricted:

dossier, permanently or temporarily charged to a desk, will be reterred to that

dest by Central Files:

26.6

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

7.

8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSONALITIES

The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide the identity of the

subject of a 201 number unless the 201 file is restricted, in which case the

requester will be"referred to the restricting desk..

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201

file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned. Requesters should

supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

Requests pertaining to five or fewer names or numbers may be made by

telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the

information by return call to the requester's extension as listed iri the Badge

Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent

by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by retum mail

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

Ä 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after

appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RiS which sill

destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and

number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder

will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit

(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names

and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of

interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its

phabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when

opening

the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request

(Form 831) leave the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16)

Wak, use the non-country code 900 in the action box (Box 14), and indicate

permanent charge to the responsible desk. The only listing which will include the

-201 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 listings are

categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special

MP22-602/.200592162

a Standard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's

Wrest as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Locttion," and "Interest

26.7

SECRET

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Desk" blocks on the 201 Personality File Action Reguest (Form 831). The

standard listings available are:

(1) Alphabetical by surname, leading to a 201 number;

(2) Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number,

(3) Alphabetical by cryptonym, leading to a 201 number;

(1) l'americal, leading to a surname;

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptonym.

FOL & CHINA

20L.

sCotts

SHU-Be 171:519+9901

SHIS NES 14938

SN9 8146 1811583867

Sol: P?':

+912510689103171

71131269561031

SHiRT 403723772934

set tele: 1602575839628

SECRET/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE ONLY

act.

Cit.

• CHINT

OIDT

MAMAPE 2

EMIN. 819

CHIN, FUNIER, PROT

PORT AIPM

MUSSN

CCOM

PACHINE PRO

022UL30

EMIA, BIJAN TANG IS

PROE

ASHY

TSEA

CHAT

ANGRUME

ASGIUTG

DIPT

DIPT

PROF

DIDE

CM197

CCO.

CHINT

C11181?

1%41d

"SIA"-ASIEN, KIANOSU

CHID

19NEC26

GEOL

CHiNi

$41.T!

10 HANG CHICA

HAIAHTUNG

cca";

192079

CHILD, DIERS TANG MSIER, HIJN

17191639

. d das

0950028

ніс, 38101m01

ARry

14T

33.

SE REST SEX BERND USE WILY

26.8

SECRET

0165401

1338

606356063

Crest

CHỊN

CUBA

CHIN

USA

MX

ETHI

CHIN

CHY"

CHIP

3ASS

pale

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

All standard. listings are cumulative; previous editions must.be. destroyed

upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely

sensitive compilations of information and must be given every possible safeguard.

b. Non-Standard. Listings

Based on one or more of the following selection criteria:

(1) Country of location

(2) 01 codes (organization and/or intelligence affiliation)

(3) Citizenship

(4). Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years)..

(5) Occupation

These selection criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,

a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the

OI code of XX or codes of XX, XY, or XZ. A 201 personality list could also be

produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years. 1915

and. 1920, with the occupation computer specialist; who are now citizens of the

United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the OI code AA.

Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities with an

Ol code AA. Those personalities with an Of code other. than AA and those

with no Ol code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that

persons who have not been assigned an OI code also be included. Note also

that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific

as the occupation code (Attachment 1). The occupation code for a courier

covers only a documented courier. Some occupation codes cover more than one

occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those who practice

some trade or manual occupation, i.e., carpenters; bricklayers, painters, mechanics

and electricians. If a list is requested for electricians, all others in this category.

will be included in the printout. These non-standard listings may be sorted

(arranged) according to any, but not more than three, of the following keywords:

(a) Surname

(b) Givea name

(c) Date of birth

(d) Country. of birth

(e) Citizenship

(f) OI code

(g) Location

26.9

SECRET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

* Sorts can be made within sorts. For example, 201 personalities may be sorted

alphabetically by surname within OI

codes for given countries of location.

Because tivo O1 codes may be listed for each personality, those names iith two

OI codes would be listed twice.

'c. Scheduled Listings

Standard and non-standard listings printed semiannually.

d. Special Listings

Unscheduled, usually non-standard, listings produced on a one time basis

in response to special operational requirements.

e. Request for Listings

All requests for stapdard or rion standard alphabetical and numerical -201

listings for Headquarters and the field, for changes in periodic listings, and for

information on the 201 machine list system should be made to the component

Records Management Officer.

25.10

SECEET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

Attachment 2

15 November 1974

AUTOMATIC 201 DOSSIER OPENINGS

Vote: 201. files will be opened automatically by IP/AN on the following cate-

gories of people.

a. Diplomats with rank of third secretary or above..

b. Military attaches and assistant military attaches.

c. Intelligence officers of the General Intelligence Department (GLD).

(Prior to opening of an l

201 file, check with NE/E/for correct spelling

of name and additional biographic data.)

2.

a. All positively identified members of

Services.

b. All positively identified members of the

landi

Intelligence

Military Intelligence Service

Communist Party officials on national or provincial levels and

officials of the

Communist Party front organizations. Do not open

unless there is at least a date of birth given.

¿ dil members of the

3. Crue

Inteiligence service employees (DSE, DGI).

uplomats C/NE/isn'should be indicated as the originating

office with CUSP alvays indicated as the secondary office of iutarest.-

Miltary attaches.

c. Assistunt military attaches.

i identified intelligence ofticers.

26,15

SECRET

---

## Page 16

13-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

Attachment 2

15 November 1974

5. North Vietnam

All diplomats and NFLSV (PRG) officials stationed abroad.

6. USSR

a. 1! Soviets assigned PCS to an official representational installation, i.e.,

embassy, consulate, commercial representation, national airline (Aeroflot)

office, news media office.

b. All Soviets assigned PCS to the United Nations in New York, Paris, Geneva,

and Vienna

c. Audio technicians, after coordination with SE desk concerned:

d. Students who will be studying abroad for a full academic year at institutions

of higher learning.

26.16

SECRET

---

## Page 17

13-00000

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 13-1-1

70-1-1

CSHB 43-11

CHAPTER IN

15 February 1960

ANNEX B

PERSONALITIES - 201 AND IN NUMBERS

1. A relatively small proportion of the total number of personall-

ties indexed by the CS are of active operational interest at any given

point in time. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and

C1 investigation, prospective agents and sources, and members oi

groups and organizations of continuing target interest. Each of these.

personalities is assigned either a 201 number or an IDN number.

2. The 201 number serves a dual purpose. It brings the files on

these personalities into the CS records system. A single number,

e.g., 201-123456, is assigned to each person, and a dossier controlled

by this number is established which contains, or has cross referenced

to it, all of the reporting on the individual's personal history, current

status and prospects. Once the 201 number is assigned, it is used in

future reporting on the individual both as a file number and in, place of

other identifying data.. Up-to-date machine listings are published

periodically to help field stations and headquarters desks keep book

on those 201 personalities falling in their particular geographic or

• functional area of interest.

3. It has become apparent that the 201 machine listings shouid in-

clude the identities of persons of operational interest because of their

connection with a target group or organization even though there may

not be sufficient information or specific interest to warrant opening

..a file. For chample: A considerable number of stations are concerned

• with the activities of Cuban exiles. Coverage of their movements,

factions and objectives can be assisted by furniahing ail participating

stations up-to-flate listings containing information under the control

43

Gees ky

SECRET

+ 25H6 1011-12t

1 A0d17-

---

## Page 18

13-00000

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 49-1-T

70-1-8

CSHB 43 1 1

CHAPTER II, ANNEX B

15 February 1960

of the Cuban desk on the dramatis personae. In addition to 201 per -

sonalities, such lists should contain the names and identliying data

of persons who should be kept track of, although they may only be of

tangential interest or on whom there may be little or no data other

than that given in the listing itself-

4. To accommodate this type of requirement in the 201 system,

identifiable personalities concerning whom enough information is not

yet available to require the opening of a file may be assigned numbers

of the following type but in the same series:

IDN-123457

These are relabeled "201" if a fide is opened. IDN numbers are car-

ried with 201 numbers in appropriate general or special listings,

where they are identified by the letter "I" in the "Type of Name" col-

uman. IDN numbers are not CS file numbers.

5. All 201 code numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters, :

either upon receipt of Form 831, or of a field dispatch. If a dispatch

is written about a personality not yet in the system, a 201 number for

it may be requested simply by writing under headquarters file number

in the dispatch form as follows:

вано ваній сивня срана сиво кавка

Dispatch Symbol and No.

XYZA -12345

Headquarters File No.

201-

6. IN numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters upon the

request of stations or desks which are developing special identification

programs within the 201 system. The field receives current notifica-

tion of new 201 openings and IDN numbers through the Field Index Card

Service..

44

SECRET

---

## Page 19

13-00,000 •

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 4911

70-1

CSHB 49-1-1

CHAPTER II, ANNEX B

15 February 1966

7. Stations or branches often are concerned with personalities

not of general CS concern. Files on these may be kept in any desired

order. Should such personalities become of general CS interest,

they must be brought into the 201 system.

45

SECRET

---

