# 104-10229-10086

## Page 1

104-10229-10086

DISPATCH

ШAaAN8.

S-L-C-H-E-T

maBle 14e 8949 6191,

Chict of Station, JAVAVE

THE 14

GAIT QUALI NOSE

CAP MILL PRUNIRO

THUM

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

MICROARD

TYPIC/OPEIATIONAL Termination of Benefit Paynenta Under

AL TREATIND RUTHLETO

ProjecE AMDUD

REF: UPGA 18908, 4 December 1964

1. Headquarters regreta that it has not been possible to

reply to reference sooner.

The delay has resulted from the

need to revion carofully the flles on this activity. It is

apparent from previous correspondence that approval to terminate

subsidy payments will have to be obtained from higher authority

which has not yet been done.

You may rest assured that Headquarters sympathizes

with your point of view in the matter and will endeavor to take

action lf appropriate authority can be obtained. However, this

1s likely to be a alou procese and you are requested to continue

the program until such time as you are advised to the contrary.

The second roference cited in ref dispatch is apparently

in error. Please forward the correct reference which Headquarters

might have located if the files on this case were not so sadly

deficient.

CHESTER D. DAINOLD

Distribution:

COS, JMWAVE - Orig. & 2

CHOSS REFERENCE 10

30L/C/COPS

ROMA CACA

WH/C/HO

DISPAICH SYMBRE AND NUMBER

UFCH 4944

CLASSICAL GS LOEZ

S-E-C-R-[-T

DAJE

19-124-25/60

HES FILE NUMBER

19-124-25/6

OPICHGATIN

Jindi :

I. FLORES /W. CINI/swu dad

coroner tried

tAl!

DEFICENS NAME

CAH/C/MO

W. In Cint

DCWHD/C

John he Hart

8.A 1.

7264

C/WHD

DATE

ido;

корнІ

Deamm/Ps+zGerald

DISPATCH

---

