# 104-10077-10403

## Page 1

104-10077-10403

-Т

EXT

DATE

• 7930

21 DEC

63

TO

:

LONDON

FROM:

. DIRECTOR

CONF :

C/WE

INFO

ACOP, C/C:

NR

TO

-LOND

BYBAT KEYWAY, BRUMEN/ DANS:!

REFERENCE: LUND 222

48 2

To sit CEN

18:1111910

88561

1. (SUALTITE HATE OCTOBER IPORNAD S TRA? (SINITIR ) HAD

INTEEVIXUSD ANTRAIL/! WHEN LATTER APRIVED ENGLAND ON LEAVE BARLY

CUBAN ACANTS FOR KUBARK, AND HAD TAKRY SU CARAONS, ONE TIME PADS

ANTO MONEY TITO CURA. (MOS) BRUESTED CLARIFICATION.

THAT:

A." TO BEET OF OUE KNONLENCE IS HAS NEVIL PAREN IN PADS

ON SUBSYANTIAL ANOTPTS OF YOSE?.

B. ANTRAILI MAD PETA TY CONTACT VETS ANTAIL? PRIOR

TO KUBARK ARLATIONSEIP WITH HIM AND THAT VITHOUT PRICH COMSULTATION

WITH HIS NEI CASE OFFICER ATRAILL FAD HECRUITID AIR. A

SU SYSTEN HAD BEEN THANSNITTST TO ARTRAIL/S VIA ATAAIL BUT NO

SYSTEM HAD EVER EAST GIVET ANTAIL/S FOR HIS OUN CAB.

2. N8 DISCUSSED OUA BEPLY TO SMALTITE AND BEVIEVED ENTIRE

CARE VITA GUNCOVIE Y SINLY NOVER MITE TYPIC, DEVOUR AND BEYNY

REPA PREREST, (SMUSCUVIS) TATED ANTRAIL QUITTINO ENGLISS ELECTRIC

HELENEINS OPTICEN

3г8:L41

RODUCT: ON: EL SUMER TEAR THE ISSUHAO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Ma

---

## Page 2

14-00000

UNIT I

EXT

03/BC

1: 2220:

PATE: 11 DEE

TO

LONDON

FRITT: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

1 M103

SECRET HYD

gotten.

it- and core

10: 1:05

1135.

Judged

stercarol iai

ilgift ile

TO

PACE THO

isre

CITE 268

24

68581

AND WOULD WORK FOR

POT THOM WOULD TRAVEL WIDELY

ХН КАЗТКЙ SUROPE, SO TEREPORE VENES UTILIZE TIM IN THIS

NET CAPACITY.

SUNCOVER ASKED WESTHEN KUBARK HAD ANY OBJECTION

AND IP DE OUR OPINION ANTRAIL ACTIVITIES IN CURA BAD BROUGHT HIM

TO ATTENTION CUBAN IS AND HOULD JOPARDIZE HIS SANSTY ERE IS TO

TRAVEL BASTEIN SUNOPE, STATED TO

SEST OUR KNOWLRICE BIS

• NOT KION TO CUBAN IS.

ALSO STATED WE HAD NO OSTECTION

FRETIVES TO GHON) PARING OVER ANTRATE?:

50, 222 3

A. 1O DECEASEA EURONTER) IMPOSIO US BE HAD BENN ASKED EY

HIS NOS TO ASCEATLIN CICS AGAIN KUBARE VIEN AS TO FOSSIBILITY THAT

ATRAIL/S DAD COME TO ATTENTION CUBAN 18. VE INTOSHED HIM VE BOULD

QUERY MENT

O THES FOUZD RAISE THIS MATTER LORD AND

PARTICULALY PIRPLEXED THEIR CLAIN THAT THEY HAD, "NOT THUS PAR

OSCRIVED VIRY FULL OR SATISPACTORY ANSWERS PROM SHALTITE

ON CERTAIN

SUESTIGNE THBY HAVE ASKED. " OUR DISCUSIONS VITE (SHALTTTS) ANT

(ENUNCOVER MERE COMPLSTILY CANDID AND BLUCE VE HAD NOTHING TO CONCIAi

2 MÁDE NO SETORT TO CLOSS OVES OS CONCEAL FACTS:

AOGASINATINS DIALECES

BELA OFFICEO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

#:;

" UNIT

EXT

DATE

I BO

7220

11- DEC

90 :

LONDON

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

....

.,.

#ING

1:00:

PAGE TREE

19150

88561

5.

ALTHOUGH IT OUS PRESENT UNDERSFARDING AMTRAIL/1 NOT

RETURNING MEXI OR CUBA ATTHIS LIVE, SHOULD DEW SO MEXI SHOULL

NOT CONTACT (REPEAT NOT) CONTACT NIM. IF HE CONTACTS STATION MEXI

MAY MEET WITH HIM CUT SHOULD GIVE HIM NO OPEPATICNA TASKS AND

REPORT IMUEDIATELY TO HQS, HAVE AND LOND. MEXI SHOULD CABLE DIR

ASAP POR PASSAGE NO (SHOT) ITS ASSESSMENT POSSIBILITY ANTRAIL!

O PARTICULAR INTEREST OR CONCEAN TO CUBAN IS.

SINCE THIS CASE HAS FROM IT'S INCEPTION BEEN DISCUSSEL

VITE COOL MASA PREVER THAT CUBAY MEXI ASPICYS IN: HANDLED HERE FOR

MEET OUTCOVE STATES THAI IN iN HIS DUTIES

BE TO RETURI CUBÀ SHOT] MOULD NOTITY US AND SOCKM

HUBARS КЕВО

ANTS. BINUE LIE HOULD THEM BEBUOTE) AGERT RUN OUT

OR (LOND DISCUBSION SHOULD THEN TAKI PLACE LOND RATHER THAN WASH.

END OF MESSAGE

B0A&A0(08

SAS/EXO Ir. Malpera (1n craft)

WE./ 3

So, to drare)

@ot"

СПРОСЕ#

110. 0038.

arisedle

ELEBET-BYBAT

REPROCUCHON DCHIN MIA TE UNG OFFICE I PROMIED.

DC/DCA

Copi No

---

