iu-i0v67-10258]

i C-O-S-7-1-DeBedaTeTahat
COUNTRY Cuba /areett REPORT Mo
SS.) Reported Portheasing &: Preeideat OATES a
Gates Pur raael Rey ac whe Me/Serorie of 2m

xo the Picat/

ie abentonasenters ae oe

Paces
Tate ACO

= DS citizen, free-lance writer and part tise sucar broker,

Source speaks Spex‘ah, has resifed at iztervals ‘n Ccba since youth, bas had
coctacts for nexy tera mee: Clhere 2 288, end move |
personally many present and forzer Cutan poll edzintstrative
personalities. Ecce lived in Eeveca éurinc tre calenicr year, 1959,

28 vortiag vite the seterial for i
an cpalysis of cffelomenta in Cle since Ze

ting
stro's victory.

1. i
i
lstter
ang vill shortly comme an ‘ocrtext post
in the govermsest there. This f et extesscccr is seid to be very mach in
@ympethy with Rey end the ‘EP, becevee his rersomel political idecs ani those
of Ray bave much in camo. ‘he Zorcer achessedo> eperently exercises much
influence over Gmdros and is a bitter exexy of Verona and the Deocrstic
Feveluticomry Frost. :
2. Bad Chibda is very depressed these cnys, becexce Se ts carvinced that the US

Will never Give exy eccourazcent to Ray end the IT. any of his Cobia
have told bin this end heve exptssized tist the MRP is too left-wing
end radical to sit the US. Cocscquently, Giikcs s beginning to atterpt to
‘lesa the MRP mvay from mdicalios, to the rictt, volt cally. Jurt cov: he
Proposes to do this, ay Cuben friends ere at pre: {

3. Wy Coban friends think thst the reported rev aligrest encog Miro Cardona,
Bufo Léper Fresguet, end Antonio de Faroca, in vate; Kird would b2 3 “ene
ordinator™ and nediatar betveea the “Left-wing” Pufo acd bis follocersi and
the “right-wing” Varona and his echerents, is cothicg sore than 8 “trikl
balloon" lmmched for the purzose of seeing vhat the reaction exang Cdans
vould be to such @ realicnnest. It is still too eaiy to assess the effect
ef this report, tris! ballom or act.

end=

On OnInF<TeD-E-I-To IAL

