7 SVE

‘ COeetraseieee 7 a cet
(eras = £ .
oY a ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY s o
See Wole rane
ON abhecled
,
ca 5 December 1996 -
MEMORANDUM FOR: Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO oe
DO JFK Focal Point ae
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
CSHHRG
SEK Project Officer
‘SUBJECT: Priority Requests from ARRB Staff
REFERENCE:
REQUESTS:

1, The ARRB Staff is planning to interview Russ Holmes about his JFK Ancillary (working) Files. Dave Marwell has requested that
Holmes be given on one day clearance so that he can look to the files. Haw do you want to handle?

2 Has David Vance Vanek (SSN} ever worked for the Agency (D0)? Vanek is an army officer who served in
Thailand and Vietnam; could have been detailed to Agency. He figurés in one of the conspiracy theories that the ARRB staff is currently
taking depositions on. Can 00 check or is this an OP issue - we have not had a lot of luck with OP. {Initially the ARRB staff was going
‘to make this a formal request, but agreed to hold off for the moment. The theory involves counter-terrorism training and the death of an
American with knowledge of JFK assassination.

3. Agency Officers in Moscow: The ARRB staff is researching Oswald's contacts in Moscow. The records shows that he came into
contact with other Americans besides Snyder (the Consular Officer). Gunn requested a list of the C1A officers in Moscow a few weeks
ago. Based on discussions with Ellie, etc., | told him a list did not exist and would be considered very sensitive if we did prepare one. [
ask him to be more specific; if he had names, we would check against Agency records. Since then his staff has located a list of senior
officers in Moscow prepared for the HSCA (Eileen has copy). He has now resurrected his requests. Let discuss the next step.

4, Did Mrs, G. Stanley Brown (Verna Deane Stebbens Brown, born 12 August 1928} work for the Agency; what was her status
when she was in Moscow as Embassy receptionist/secretary? She is the wife of George Stanley Brown, an Agency employee from
1952-1962. According to the ARRB staff, she had contact with Oswald (see item #3).

{will give you a call on Friday to discuss our responses to the above request...

ce:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

October 27, 1996 CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL

Mr. Barry Harrelson 2000

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:
I am writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of
renee Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
Formal Requests:
CIA-1
Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by
November 1, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. CLA has made material available and Review Board
staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CIA’s compilation of the portion
of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey.

Boarp Memaens: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce - Anna K. Nelson
Execurive Dinecton: David G. Marwell


13-00000
rea

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that
CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available
and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two
weeks. Nothing has been made available.

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)
We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,
no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications
that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board.
staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide
within two weeks. (wes Oswald on’)

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran’s original ~
statement.

CIA-12 JMWAVE materials)
CIA has agreed to make matefials available on a rolling basis.

Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.

Review Board staff researc cee When research is complete, staff wi

discuss issues with Av les Con clock wn peed [ues
KRERE chet Aoi ens

IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). ~ copy col~

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review
Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff


13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff's understanding that CIA continues
its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the
subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been
located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been
unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,
or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us
whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding
Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape
as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.
Thank you for your help and cooperation.



13-00000
ya FAA ZUZ (24 vad! : fer @ Tan 4 FR

for which we await your response. If you have any
you should call either Bob Skwirot or the analysts
‘to formalize any of the requests into our numbered

Are all files in collection? ‘if CIA has any
i files (e.9., personnel, 201, etc,), we would like to

eae ding 3 likin fife in Box 15 folder 34. Who is the person
i le q thie DCD messages? ‘Did Ralkin work for CIA? Did
te : he.work-for DCD/O07 What ts relationship between

.10.18:29:650690 (Box 34; F 22) p. 2. Cable
(IN 24738) 7. July 62. We can send fax if helpful.

Combs
Combs

Location of DRE, CRC, MRA(?) monthly operational
feports

‘apes of Alvarado Interrogation

12/10/96 | New Orleans, Hunter Leake, Clay Shaw, QKENCHANT,
and ZRCLUIFF

hi



Ae C1A- TR-Ol
(8 02CF}

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997 CTIONS
Mr. John Pereira

Chief

Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for

Dear John:

Tam writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board’s requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to
several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

‘As identified more fully below, the issues are: CLA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

Boaro Memeers: John R. Tunheim. Chair + Henry F. Graff + Kermit 1. Hall + William L. Joyce * Anna K. Nelson


13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 6

Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For future
reference, they will be referred to by the “Informal Request” (IR) number provided
below.

sGIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).
This request is complete. :

CIA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.
This request is complete.

“CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.

CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGUAL documents in
April 1997. To date, no response has been received by ARRB. All computer
searches for these documents should be documented in a formal letter for the
record.

**CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton’s Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to
account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that
related to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the perceived
controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton’s files, the Review Board
believes it prudent to obtain a clear understanding of the types of files that he
maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Boafd does not seek to
explore any subjects in Angleton’s files beyond those that may have pertained to
the assassination.) To date, CLA has made available certain documents provided
by the CIC and the case files for Mangold v. CIA. The Review Board requests any
additional information in the possession of CIA that would explain the
disposition of Angleton’s files.

In addition, the ARRB staff’s review of the Mangold v. CIA files designated
additional documents from those files as assassination records. These documents
are: Tab D, documents Nos. 95, 109-116, 120, and 121; and from the Denied


13-00000

MEMORANDUM

July 20, 1998

To: Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director

ce: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Fee eo Arua A

Associate Director for Research and Review
Subject: CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post in 104-10065-10199 from 1959-1964

In response to ARRB’s first informal request, CIA provided several documents from the
Directorate of Operations which contained lists of the CLA employees assigned to the
country post found in record number 104-10065-10199. These lists of CIA employees
were not designated as assassination records.

e:\combs\cia-ir01.wpd
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4


ieagyers

12 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-1, CIA Personnel Assigned to Post
from 1959-64

1. This is in response to referent request.

2. Searches were made for information responsive to
the request and materials were provided for examination by
ARRB staff. No documents were selected for the JFK
Collection.

3. This concludes the Agency’s action on this request.
If you have any question, please advise.

J. Barry Harre See
