104-10160-10207)

: SECRET

An
S
=
\

16 June 1064 i

. tad Lt. Oliverio <i



13-00000

SECRET

28. Fuses 1966

SUBJECT: Reowntact of Cliverio A, TOMEY Vasalic. (201-283206)

a 1, At 2736 Bours, & June 64, the undersigned. was advised
“gt Bie residence that a Mr. TOUEU (Subject) bad called the t
eecurity number given him (351-6161) and left the mescage that te
be would lize to tala sgaim with Paul Stroud: (the undersigned)
anytine efter 120° boure, & June,

2, Upesm arriving ot TOMEU's apartment (Apt. 303, 1038 .
Wahler Place SE, High Poiat Apartment Howse, Bashington, D. C.), 7
183@ hours, 8 dune, TOMEY indicated to Bis two daughters be weuld
like to have sane privacy asd they sad his wife, Caridad, left
the apartecat.

'301~289985; or one:

apolog: ‘ led the name
that o: He reiterated
7) hiding Cubam Goverment i
@ebeoquent to Ais infiltration, he knew only the first asnee of
ete nen teen ae came ip contact, but thea added he knew
ia whose house be wae hiding, because abe. {
waa the sister pi jone of bie infiltration team
ieaesoesy eres]

B01-a53208.)

4. Om several ccearious, according te TOMES, he waa seated
at the table im Ana's house with several other people. Cue of

4 28 “COCO,” was described
@8@ the sceretary to There
euy diecussions ia wi reea! LLAMIZA er

G@gagathies hoving been discussed, Agcerding recole
: Sestion it was “COCO” who was asscatated
got avare ef any relaticzebip
a oreation aa te wi ‘ime.

fie dingiltretioa team mate, be sugested

that: 8: low ere evailable they moy be eble te
ident! . e@ ide date on hie agceseability for

6. Ose Cael CORALS, former Chfef of the Bsvaaa Fire
Begertneat, was identified by TOMEU ae another possible lead

ro



13-00000

SECRET
L ~2-
j : : .
{ who vould TOMKU effirmed Usiel eas previcusl7 Hl :
1 with MEUTO the Second Front of Escankray. Osiel |
{ was under asylums in the Brazilian kmtessy (sic, Argentine
| Bndasey?), when TUMKU geined political asylum. then Uriel 7

finally received his safe conduct from the imbasay, he sent
to Puerto Rico and, TOMEU postulates that Caiel is now again
with MEBOYO in either the United States or Puerto Rico.

6. Two shap shots (to be returned) vere provided by.
TOMLU. of himself and six other individuals who were in asylua
et the sewe tine. He identifica these, in the photograph in t
whic! is seated,
left to right: Oliverio TOXEU,
(believed to be in US), Public ork (ua), ores
Glex?), aad Ouiel GONZALEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

7. Upon completing the debriefing, Stroud and TOMEU
aged seal talk” for a while until TOMEU finally stated
that he still wished there waa something more he could do to
belp free Cubs, and asked “What do you think I should do?”
os Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of
Gecisioa for another individual, and countered by asking TOMEU er
what alternatives he had in mind, other than resaining in the
UB Army as @ career military officer. i

8. TOMEU replied that, of course, he was once an i N
agriculturalist, but that there were few _ 398 opportunities in 7

mer
fdea, Be then tated that he had Deen asked by Manuel ARTIME r
te take a job aa an instructor, Without indicating any
‘tiem ef even awareness of ARTIME's activities, or of
‘IME's contact with TOMEY (an incicated in TOMEU's 201), 5
FOMES wae askod what he thought of ARTINE's proposition,
POMEY atated that he would no longer follow any man se .a
:. dedividual. or as a leader, because a man's ideals, cutlowk, f
‘> gad ebjectives.chauge with tine, For example, the people of
~ Gaba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated. When
Pidel took ever, hia ecconplichasnis gradually becane qdivs
Gafserent from the ideals he had espoused, TOMEU continued

‘- v:. By eying he would “no longer follow a man, One could only £
|.) @Fust his ideals or an organization which followed those if

ideals, siuce a good organizetion would be leas likely of e i
deing controlled by a single nai When esked gor an exampie .
@f the type of organizetion he hid in mind, TOMEU replicd he 4 3
gas post favorably inclined tovards the ideals and goals of 4 7
the JURE. (The JURE or JRC ie an organization created by i ae
Banolo RAY Rivero around s nucleus. of former 26 July Movement :

Bee nemo end sttachnent seted 23 July 1063 from Joba

ABA, Department

SECRE

~ pare enema tatieanietnt =

ome



: SECRET
-3-

®. It abould, perbaps, be noted here that in am informal
exchange vith ire. Dossld WEBSTER, TOMED's supervisor at the
Defense Language Institute, Anacostia Fawal Annex, 4 June 64,
Bra, UXBSTER voluateered the inforantion that. “sll of the other
*‘Beigede students here’ have told m@ they think very highly
of TOMEU, ead that be is » very brave man, because be and bis
family were very weslthy in Cuba and
fimto exile and fight the Castro Regine.

v@ it all up to go

