# 104-10183-10090

## Page 1

104-10183-10090

alice monie d

SECRET

takes!

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do No Reproduca

HENOKANDUM FOR: Chief, "UD for Ciba

SUBJECT

: Espinosa Allegations

1. Sensitivity: Regardloss of accuracy, they

present a problem because of their having been

presented to other government agencies;

In view of matters touching or U.!. scurtty.

are delichte and could have unfavorable repercuralons

1f rrpeated to newssen by the complainant or his

associates (rhose independent, previous threats vere

of greater potential embarrasament);

•C. affect the reputations and the security of our

personnel at Madrid and/ Paris,

Arteon: to viet or the foregods, the allegations

should be put in proper perspective

not

ignorod because of the potential embarrassment but

considered in the light of what we already know

(Alaust all of thea are ropetitions of previoun

164

charges and reports, known well to both the

Mations and to Headquarters offer

conterma with the Allashi group, whose nenbers

reliability, reputations and good faith are question-

able.

Too of the charges - about Earlr and

"Tota"

and about AMVHIP. I and CARRILLO - are new.);

should be treated so as to protect us against any

charge of laxity and so as to establish the facts but,

at the same time, treated so as to avoidattributing

to them more importance than they descrve;

C. should be kept in mind as examples of other

charges which may bebandled aboit and reported by the

AMLASH STOUP to other sovornmental agencies or to

othor goverrmnts or to news nedia (In the last

connection recall the implied threat of pibllahing

ODYOkk responsibillty, as reported prevlously by

→ 3716, IN 38634.):

21-2

16-2

ENCY

CRET

S/BR

---

## Page 2

-..aiig

'T

-2 -

hould be oxamined together with all the other

#vallable reporta no that me my

(1) clarify our omn objectives and wishes with

respect to all the AlASH grOup (and thie includes

(2)

sort out which people, 18 ass, lare worth our.

time in the future;

(3) take appropriate sensures, Including inter-

rogation and polygraphing, to clarily doubta and

then, whea necessary,

terminate those who are

working for us but are not worthwhile;

(4) tighten ip our own operational and security

procedures in connection with the AHLASH roup.

analysis of the AkrAsa complex, made

Aralyste: As pointed out in a preliminary

in Karch 1965 when I was

preparine for travel tol

in connection with the /Quiops-l lo-?

...There is no convincin, evidence that the proup is

working either for or against the regle of Fidel CASTRO.

Erporta

on their contacts with us and their discissions among

chenselves are at variance.

In 1962 E. del CASTRO, reportedly

knowing that they were plotting against him, talked to AMLASII-1

and seven nenbors of his troip to enlist their sippurt against

Anlbal ESCALANCE Dellande and the cosmunists an Cuba.

Posalbly

they aro playing both rods against the middlo.

Thay certainly

have been and are in contact with the too +nde."

The following

comments are keyed to matters raincd by ESPINOSA:

A. The AMLASE COnSPIrACy - As decalled bol

(IN 20634) on 6 April 1965, NUSPOLT-] report on *

of the AMLASH group, including ACHIP I suntioned the folloring

significant pointe:

(2) KUBARI was criticized for "Ioolin, around for

jears" without helpins aad for jeopardizing thu operation;

(2) the sroup as to be prepared to denounce

ODYORE as responsible 11 the operation falls and belleved thal

the resulting scandal vould take the Bay nt Pige seem 1amirn1-

ficant; and

(3)

AMLASH-3 was in touch with Ciban Intelligence

as established by Saled nassares whirh he exhibited.

As reported by PARI 1532 (IN 82939) U0 4 Jine 1963, bamed on

metingo wIth ISPINaSa, she problet dea by Paro 1a chal

0z

5181R

---

## Page 3

"the ANLASH circle ig wide and each now friend of wbon we learn

scens to have knowledse nf the plan."

1 believe that the

problem is a more serious and basic one.

As Indicated n

paragraph 3 of the present acmorandus, F.del CASTRO hisself

report alsand, knowing it, enfleted, its sipport.

far back an '1902 that the group was plotting

Hence ve

cannot rule out the possibility of provocation.

Assassination,

obviously, 1a a dangero is bai,

not cerely to the plotters li

• phyalcal

sense, but to a sponsoring coverment which may

suffer severe political reperc..8s1on8

at home and abroad if its

anvolvement as made known.

In the instant cast, the risks of

exposure. of the ODYOKE hand would appear high, whether there 1s

& provocation or uat.

Considering the individuals who are

involved directly, their contacts wath KUBARK officers, and their

reported plan to

expose ODYOll, persisting in the plan could

be highly embarrassing to sUBARA.

(This is even nore the case

now that ESPINOSA has talked to ODENVY and ODURGE, although

fortunately the tenor of his complaint was. that KUBAR! had not

given adequate support. to the plan.)

16-1

B,

The contacts at Paris and the natters affecting

the

Station • The

"recruntmont" of laurgen had beun the

subject or an ixchange of cables between

land Headquartersi6-14

and. of dist inglons at Headquarters between I/d and sE (se

107] IN 665572 and UiE-10955).

The annoying thing 1n

Ehis connection now is that ESPINOSA has talked about It to

ODENVY and ODURGE and the danger that, 11 he 18 ladiscreet,

Jin story aboud this (and the other matters) could reach some

curious newspapersan.

(In this connection, it appeare that the

Questiorable decision to put kaireen In touch with the AMLASH

croup was made without the knowledge of STOCKIOOD.) ESPINOSA

did not Ieport aay critician of the KUBARkers at

put 1: 16-4

is evident that the ASLASH group knows more about them than

we might wish.

What is ner and of concern from ESPINOSA about

matterg 1n

Paris is his story of AlHIP 1 and (UNSNAFU-19 ?

dealings.

The qurationg raisod aboit AMWHIP I are of mitual

16C

Drevious trip to

on the «JOPS-l case, GRO"ERY had volced

no doubto abut the vole, grop and specifically abolt AMWIlP-1

OZaBI bIS COnDECtiOn WItH |UNSNAFU-19.1

At inase are two basic

POLDES,

the knowledge on

the part of lUNSXAFU19 about KURARI'= U?

connection with ANtHIP 1 and the chargr that Alwilip-l has been

defrauding NULARA

in the jewelry transaction. Also to be kept

in mind in the lact that ODort has an offico in Paris salch

•ls clibt lave been informed of the allerations and which might

nave been asked fur coumente - althoh ODENVY policy alwaye

bas bien to atay away

tron any investiation of other sivernment

SODEACH

unless specifically directed by the Attorney tneral

to investigato.

is i

13:59

---

## Page 4

16-4

Critzc1ss of the

Station • Critician of

the

Station of tat

ANLASH

croup is not new.

ANLASH -2

and wanted direct contact, but the

station his bad reservations about seeing them.

The Station han

been involved indirectly because of reporting by its sources

about and involvement of Station targets with both tan ALiSH

dand ANORLD operations (both handled Iron Hundarter») -

72982(14 72256) and

2908 (IN 73094) (both RYBAT). 2LX

produced conflictit. reports which previously sere discuseed at

Ind it Headquarters

Insofar as. GROVERY linself 18

[concerhed, It must be kept ln mind that he is a natural target

on whon the MASH Aroup

would be inclined to focus ita cum-

plaints.

with regard to the specific complaint abost

"rotn"

GROWERY has Identified her an(dUswIFT-y and has reported that

no staffer from the Station ever had contact with her.

ESPINOSA to ask whether he had succeeded in contacting "the

proper people"

-1.e., responsible KUBAR& representatives - and

to request notice of

the rebalting arrangements.

to obtain PRQ Information and to obtain clarification of the.

AoH12y. You plan calls for wotlad his negt wex

roles played by those involved with hin in the AMLASH operation:

His dealings with (UNANATU 19 also will bo covered.

Folloring

this, an LCFLUTTER (Tamination is planned.

Thịg may belp to

Intermine whether he has been truthlal in his reporting.

Harold F

Saonson

#H/C/SP

SILAN

---

