o4-t0247-10004

sorneng”

aa aEIEnEaeeemmeeteaeemneemeeen Sa

Seoney _

Chlef of Station, Bara x
Catef of Base, Gone
Chief,
dotivitios
TEn/ED-OUy /Ctoan ; (a-

SEPERCES SEG! 1059, 2, tenet 1963
WEBS 12659, 6 fngust 1953
& BER OALES, 27 August 1563

@ Setete reference to * treet to Sune of this to
——

. Chane, lee etutensat, Othe Eaglich language efition of Fave!

lenin, yohlicted in Laucamme, wae dropped ty Hobemed Harbi,..,” to that

Enslich lenguege edition of the ution Atricaine, publishe! tn Lamemmo,
epparentiy tus bess dropped gimes the [ausaase iexppesred fran the azsthend
of feliosing publication ef Volurm I, Ho. 2 in Jump 1963.

©. Change the lect eentencs to rest: “the Preach aidress is also my."

Buse are els to + We ery also interested in confirmetion of the state
waut comaina’ im parncreph 8 of PANE 0156, 9 August 1963, re purchase of @ modern
Printing plast ty the Chicoss, reportedly for we i= Bers.

& Attoctseut 9 is a cumary of the KUM information on Afriesn 3 ent

Bicherd Oibsos whieh ray be pessed to the TEAMITIONN. It is @ bit cated ia that tt
Gaseribes the otrneture es 1% arvarently existed pricr to ths Cfacicsal of verges
however, Pero

i
8
g
8





; Sey
i ain
r pila

Hagley;
He HTHy

a

pete
i

Mp

szeries
n
‘The methesd
journal

iH
Hl
i :
it i
i iP
ig
ip

gate

an
i

he folloving bureme of the publication are Listal:

8 Saleen
Street, Mew York 27, BY.

= P.O. Box 607,
‘een 6

U.B.k. © Oh Bast


SECRET

fay mene

MT ie .
if i
i t
at
3 4 :
2 Ny j : : 7 : | ch
ite Le i i
| i : i
ta

oe



_ ~ SECRET

meonoom
SIBIECT: LA REVOUTTTON AFRICATER/NICHARD ‘THHDSAS OTRNON

1. 1A REVOLUTION APRICAINE appeared for the first tize in Algiers on
Yeurusry 2, 1503. Edltors of the mgasine ere Jecques YERGIS, 0 Comsmist, ani
Zchre DRIP, vite of the Vice Prexier of Algeria Rabah BITAT. > @ well-known

Preach leftist cartoonist, does the political cartoons for the mgasiae. ‘The mensizs
@laias to have offices in Hew York City, Paris, Lonton, Dar-es-Salaam, Bavenn end
Laucemns. ‘Tee eidrece for the Hey York City office af the myazine is 2bk Bast Séth
Street.

2. ERS? ISSUE OF ALCERTAN REVOLUSIORIEY WGAZINE TH BOLISH

TAUSAMHR——the firot issue of APHICAN REVOWWTION, Algeria's first magesine in
English ant designed as 6 rallying point for the continentvide political, economie _
‘end social revolytion nov untervay in Africa, has sen published here. The lhb-pege,
yockst-eired illustrated monthly mgesine consists of salections from KEVOITION,

2g Mi.
Tee es
‘The Girector of AFRICAN REVOUPTION is We Jk" VERCES, the lawyer vho directed the
legal defense ef Algerian prisoners in French courts Algeria's War of Liberation.
BAitorein-chief is Mas. okra Drif, one of the fighters in the strug:
ie for inteventense. In charge of the English edition is Richard Gihean, an AfrO-
Asericen neversn, CES neve vriter eal executive secretary of the Pair Play for

APRICAH REVOLUTION salle for 30 U. 8. cents a copy in Africae, 3,50 F ent 30 64 tn.
Beroye ani 75 cents in orth America.

fhe first (May) iesue of AFRICAN REVOLUTION contains @ etatenent ty Algeria's
Presitent Ahmed Den Bolla calling for the Liveration of South Africa ant-pledging his

Government's cupport for that task. It also contains articles by Oliver Tambo, View
President of the African Hational Congress of

