ie : SECRET

: April 1998

:. Lee Stricklai
“Chief, IRG/OIM

J. Barry Harrelson’
FK Project. Officer

Status and'Issues: The ARRB staff has agreed to recommend
“.to.the Board that the information related to those covert
actions: be considered non-related and the documents
Gesignated “Not Believed Related” (NBR). The document will
be grouped with similar “NBR” documents and be presented to
ard. for action at its'13'April (OY, 22 May meeting.

( 2.:Alias Documentation and Accommodation
Addresses. The security file of former Agency employee,
David Morales (deceased -- true name already released),
within the sequestered collection contains documentation on
five of his alias. We anticipate similar problems as we re-
review other security files within the sequestered
collection. The ARRB staff has proposed a compromise
resolution to this problem as follows:

-- Protect all references to ‘official documents

reflecting the alias such as (SS Ce. 5/

~ a
~- Release items designated as pocket litter such as
club cards, etc.;

-- Protect elements of accommodation addresses to avoid
identifying specific locations; and

-- Then make a decision to actually release or protect
the alias itself depending on the timeframe and its
importance to the JFK story.

CL BY:

CL REASON:
DECL ON:
DRV FRM: Multiple

SECRET


13-00000

ee aoe a scat eeca eet SECRET

The ‘DO JFK Team is currently reviewing
they... agree with, .the Agency and ARRB will

ipril meeting: accompanied: by
‘accept. If the DO ‘has: probie
ines, I will. _xequest. that the

2 st-asked for organization: charts: on various Agency
d: ectorates/componenta for. the: years 1958-1968 = All Agency

“Or in'sanitized form

pt’ “The. DO has’ advised the ARRB
“staff that all ofthe DO items selected will be denied in
full:

Status and Issues: The ARRB will: present. the selected
material, including a.DO.JMWAVE’ chart, to the Board to be
lared Assassination Records: at the, 13, April. meeting.

hey. il] also prépose ‘that a: generic DO ‘organization chart
be prepared in lieu of the records in’contention. The chart
“would. inélude those components that were involved in the
Oswald story and anti-Castro activities. These JMWAVE and
DO organization charts have been the subject of several
discussions and meetings with the ARRB staff over the past
few months. The ARRB staff is clearly leaning toward
recommending that the JMWAVE chart be released; an actual
vote on these records by the Board will not take place until
the May meeting.

(s) ARRB_ Request, CIA-IR.-15, Mexico City Tapes.

This. peaione asked for a thorough search of. Agency files and
documents for and CIA “surveillance ~take' from Cuban and
Soviet. facilities in Mexico City at the time of the Oswald
visit and in the immediate wake of the assassination.”
Among the items provided by the DO were five boxes
containing audio tapes from tel-tap on Cuban and Russian

~ embassies and facilities. A number of the tapes are dated
22 November 1963; many others are dated 23 November 1963
through December 1963.

Status and Issues: The ARRB ‘staff has asked the question,
4 what could possibly be sensitive or classified on the tapes

©. given that we have acknowledge afuptiateral) tap on the

“embassies and the existence of the tapes is public
knowledge. replay any additional information from the Do,

the ARRB staffplani © present the issue to the Board at
the 13 April m mg and request that it declare at least

SECRET


13-00000
SECRET

the tapes from 22 and 23 November to be Assassination
Records. A vote on releasing the tapes will be delayed
until the May meeting.

(S) __ {LITAMIL-9 -- a CIA Penetration iof the Cuban,
faa “The identity of /LITAMIL-9| was s_inadvertently _
released in 1993. He is now/identified in true name_as a

CIA agent fin John ‘New in's book, Oswald and_the cia.( As of
1993, {LITAMIL-9/was still alive, living i and

he has family “in (Cuba } Up to now, the ARRB Board has agreed
to protect his identity and crypt and delay the release of
his 201 file until the Agency could make some judgments
about the potential damage created by the release on
additional documents with his name/crypt in them.

Status and Issues: The ARRB has requested that we address
ee eas at the May meeting. The DO has confirmed that
LI-9/is still alive and living in The HRP/DO
‘JFK teams are currently reviewing the 201 and other /LI
material in the file. It is unlikely that the Board would
agree to delay release until 2017, however, there is
precedent for delaying release of records on individuals for
shorter periods or until death.

(S) 6. Richard Gibson . “CIA asse bson, who presently a
\lives in England, is a left wing journalist who was -
“Gssociated with the Fair Play For Cuba Committee (FPFCC), an;
entity to which Oswald wrote letters and claimed to be a :
member. Gibson did not become an Agency asset until after ;~
(the a: assassination, however,;-he had been of interest to the.

FBI when he headed the FPFCC. Unfortunately a combination a]
of previous releases and release by t the Board led to press
\reports in 1994/1995 about his relationship with the CIA. At y
‘that time, CIA officers were dispatched to advise him abou tc /
(the possible compromise and promise him the very best ‘ Gisasaat
‘attempt at protecting the relationship. ARRB also agreed a
‘to delay the release of any additional information until the /
{Agency and FBI had determined the full extend of the files ya
jon’ Gibson and the potential damage.

i 7 The Gibson documents are scheduled for:
“ARRB action at the May meeting. It appears to be possible; -
(to reléase Gibson's role in the JFK assassination story and

protect his relationship with the Agency in our JFK “_

~assassination records; however, the FBI has a four volumes’

file which covers both FBI interest and Gibson's

‘relationship with the Agency. The HRP/DO JFK teams are ae \

currently reviewing the Gibson material and I will be =

meeting with the FBI to review what they are releasing» on
\ Gibson and the dis) osition of their file.,

SECRET


eee SECRET

= (AIUO).. 72 ‘ARRB Request. cra Re 34 Files of CIA Officials |
“» and/or Officers: This is*a major request. .The board has-\""
> ask for .“the ‘o: ice files of the individual occupying the

: following posi 4.

The: Office

1962-1965 Bk OS
nological files of c. Tracy Barnes, 1959-1964
Office of-.General Counsel; Lawrence Houston, 1959- 1964"
Operational. Diaries of: William Harvey 1962-1963.

This: request will by: its very breadth.
nd DCT :
And,. while it may seem’ overly’ broad, HRP
‘has? developed’a° methodology with the ARRB which provides the
access required: by. the Board and guarantees. that their
review is focused. The request is for access to review the
files for possible assassination related material and the
Board has no interest in reviewing multiple files which have
3. mothing to, do with the assassination story. A meeting is
“held between the ARRB staff, HRP JFK team and the
- appropriate:.IRO‘to. discuss. the scope of the request.
Usually, the’ ARRB staff are first provided shelf lists,
indexes, records lists, etc. for the purpose of
narrowing/selection what they think is important. HRP
assist the IRO or component representatives in reviewing
the selected files to ensure they deal with appropriate
subjects and timeframes. Once access is approved, the
appropriate IRO and component sets up a file review session
with the ARRB staff. If material requested is particularly
sensitive, access can be limited to the ARRB Executive
Director or members of the Board. Any records selected as
Assassination Records are subject to review under the JFK
Act. This process has be used for numerous requests for
access including DCI McCone Files, Family Jewels materials,
histories and security files

SECRET
