# 104-10186-10243

## Page 1

104-10186-10243

CORT

CENTRAL* INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ANTORMY

ANTONE REPORTE

Ms maiertal containa informatra dinner to Maconal Defense of the Enlieu States Miinin the meanine of the Fapionag LauR Tile

10. 08C

EAs Toy and 1l, the eastmanse dr ferrinion of which is any manner to as unauthoriard perron la probibited ly lae.

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

COUNTR Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT TOMas COLANTE de Peralta

DATE DISTR.

• NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/01211-64

1o superor old

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

INFO.

1959

PLACE & Washington,

D.

DATE ACQ. September 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS- IS 'UNEVALUATED INFOENATION' SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTAI*VE

SOURCE:

former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until Apral 1964.

Headquarters Commerts

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with

this Agency.

l. Tomas COLASTE de Peralta was

a member of the Department

of Investigations of the Police in 1959.

Source saw him in that

Department in 1959 sad has nct seen him

since

2.

Source said thai COLANTE was born about 1938, is five

feet seven inches tall, 140 pounds, has a slim build, a lean

face, a fair complexion, a hawk-nose, and light brown hair. 1

Icadquarters Comment

1.

In a report dated 3 May 1961, a fairly reliable source

Identified Tomas COLANTE de Peralta as a member of the

Departamento Tecaico

de Investigaciores (Technical

Department of Investigations - DTI) of the Cuban National

Revolutionary Police.

5

3

5

4

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

REP

I ARMY

CINCLANT

Note. Field distribution indicated by "=")

MANY

CINCSO I

I&NS

INSA

AEXX

I OCR

I FB: 2

#NEORMATION REBORTE

HINEORMATION REPORT.

WH1/SA/EOBI_|WE/5/R

WIL/ SA/MOBA

WE/MADR.

3;

IN

WISA/R

LX' - 1685

NO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

CSCI-316/01214-61

#HI/SALCI

BID 1Y

MULHAVE

TOFALS

WIL/SAY Y WE WE1 121, CI%,

RID 1

LIAISON

is#k

S/BR

POETODA

---

