# 104-10216-10007

## Page 1

104-10216-10007

TIMEO, BIE

ABLE SEE DISES ER 1L PAH.

02N0GN7

WE PPED bE BART. 698

S.SUING

OFFICE IS

STAFF

VANCE COPI ISSUEDISLOTT

FROM WI

N

ACTION :

1. _..

SECRET

EUR

011 1641

FILE

G/Il/AN C/PS/EGL

dORS/INT

1C14 CLAS

T 282446

E1A910

PAGE 01

TOR:061635₴ OCT 76

SECRET 0615442 OCT 76 STAFF

CI TEL

71890

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

NINTEL RYBAT UNPOLKA KMSTONE

PEES: A, PARIS 68028 L4 JUNE 19701 (-941369)

B. DIRECTOR 867008 610 JUNE 19761

1= UNPOLKA MISSED MEETING WE HAD SET UP PRIOR HIS DELAYED

DEPARTURE FOR CUBA, AND REF B REQUIREMENTS CONSEQUENTLY NOT

• PASSED, FOLLOWING RETURN FROM CUBA, JOURNALISTIC

ASSIGNEMENTS OUT OF THE COUNTRY PREVENTED RECONTACT UNTIL

MEETING 5 OCTOBER. FOLLOWING IS PRELIMINARY REPORT ON MIS

CUBAN VISIT.

2. HIS TRAVEL TO CUBA WAS TO PREPARE A VOLUME ON

COUNTRY FOR PRESTIGIOUS FRENCH GUIDE BLEU TRAVEL SERIES.

TRAVEL AND EXPENSES WERE PAID BY CUBAN TOURIST ORGANIZATION

INIT A WHICH VERY INTERESTED IN FAVORABLE BOOK TO PROMOTE

TOURIST INDUSTRY.

TOLD THAT AN INTERVIEW WAS LAD ON FOR

HIM WITH AN IMPORTANT PERSONAGE 12 SEPTEMBER, HE EXPECTED

TO MEET THE DIRECTOR OF INIT. BUT WAS SURPRISED TO FIND

THAT THE INTERVIEW WAS WITH CASTRO.

SECRET.

IN 061444

71872

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1883rG 2190

11t

SEC

RET

....

LEPRODUCTION HI

ISSUING

OFFICE 15

OTHER THAN

FROMIBITED

STAFF

•ADLE COPE ISSUED SLOTTED

CICH UNIT

RF .

N

AETION d

T 282446

- A!.

FILE.

VR .

E1A910

PAGE 02

TUR: 8616332 OCT 76

= w.

IN 061444

PARI

74391

—-n

3. CASTRO BEGAN BY ROUGHLY UNBRAIDING UNPOLKA FOR HIS

1962 BOOK ON CUBA "LA REVOLUTION SENSUELLE", SAYING THAT

HE REMEBERED GUEVARA HAD ALSO SPOKEN HARSHLY OF UNPOLKA

YEARS AGO AND MAKING HEAVYHANDED PLEASANTRY THAT THEY

HAD THOUGHT OF ARRESTING UNPOLKA REMEMBERING HOW HE HAD WRITTEN

OF CUBA. ATMOSPHERE GREW MORE RELAZED, HOWEVER. AS CASTRO

OBSERVED THAT• AFTER ALLO THEY HAD DISCOVERED. THAT SOME

OF THE INDIVIDUALS UNPOLKA MAD CRITICIZED MADO IN FACT,

SUBSEQUENTLY PROVED TRAITORS TO THE CAUSE, SPECIFICALLY

MENTIONED:

A. FNU CUBELA. THIS MAN, CASTRO INDICATED. HAD

WORKED WITH ENEMIES OF CUBA, HAD EVEN TRIED TO KILL HIM

SCASTROS, HE SUBSEQUENTLY SERVED A TERM IN PRISON. BUT

HAVING PAID HIS DEBT TO SOCIETY, WAS PERMITTED TO PICK UP

MIS LIFE AGAIN AND COMPLETE MEDICAL STUDIES, AND WAS NOW A

CARDIOLOGIST IN HAVANA, CIMPLETELY OUT OF POLITICS: PUNPOLKA

NAD NO EXPLANATION FOR SURPRISING LENIENCY TOWARD SOMEONE

WHO WAS THOUGHT TO HAVE MADE AN ATTEMPT ON CASTRO'S LIFE.

B. FNU FRANQUI• CASTRO RECOUNTED THAT THE REGIME

KAD PULLED IN A POET FUNPOLKA THOUGHT THE NAME WAS SOMETHING

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ФОН# 11700

8-81890 876

B ABLE SEC DISSEM BY

#-7 ASONMIT NOTIFIEO.

_ ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOITED

ACTION UNIT

RF

FILE

TOTA 655!"

SECRET

I8v

EPRODUCTIOA

IS SUING

STAFF

VR

ACTION •

т 282446

ET 4910

PAGE 03

TOR: 061635₴ OCT 76

IN 261444

PARL

71892

LIKE "PADILLA", WHOM CASTRO DESCRIED IN VLUGAR TERMS AS A

HOMOSEXUAL. FRANQUI, THEN IN EUROPE FOR MEETINGS WITH

FELTRINELLI, TRIED TO DRUM UP SYMPATHY FOR PADILLA AMONG

INTELLECTUALS. CASTRO, WHO REGARDED FRANQUI AS A GROTHER.

PROMISED LATTER SAFE CONDUCT TO RETURN TO CUBA TO TALK THINGS OVER,

BUT FRANQUI NEVER CAME BACK. (ALTHOUGH UNPOLKA WAS NOT

CLEAR IN HIS RECOLLECTION OF EXACTLY WHAT WAS SAID, HE GOT

IMPRESSION THAT FRANGUI HAD POSSESSED SOME INFORMATION OR

• DOCUMENTS EMBARRASING TO CASTRO OR THE REGIME. UNPOLKA NOTE, FOR

EXAMPLE, THAT CASTO MENTIONED THAT FELTRINELLI (FORTUNATELY"

HAD SINCE DIED.J

4. CASTRO WENT ON TO ASK UNPOLKA WHETHER HE WOULD DE

READY TO COME BACK TO DO ANOTHER 300K ON CUBA, PRESUMABLY

TO SHOW PROGRESS MADE BY REGIME. CUNPOLKA SENSED THAT THIS

WAS PRINCIPAL THING ON CASTRO'S MIND. I UNPOLKA SIDESTEPPED

BY SAYING THAT HE WOULD HAVE TO BE GIVEN SAYE FREEDOM TO

TRAVEL THAT HE HAD ENJOYED FIRST TIME. THERE WAS NUT

RESOLUTION TO THIS PROPOSAL.

5. WE ASKED WHY UNPOLKA THOUGHT HE WAS RECIPIENT OF SUCH

SPECIAL AUDIENCE, APART FROM POSSIBLE CASTRO INTEREST IN ABOVE

SECRET

Santo, to t..

---

## Page 4

14-00000

9-91 ReF$ 2-J0

GAbLE SEC DISSEM Y.

TORA. COPIES

SECRET

RERRODUCTION BY

ISSUING

OFFICE IS

PERSOR UNIT ROTIFIED.

STAFF

-JARACE COPY ISSUED'SLOTTED

ACT:ONE UPIT

RF . FILE .

VR .

ACTOR E

282446

E1A910

PAGE 84

-..

TOR: D61635₴ OCT 76

IN 061444

----

PARI

71898

BOOK PROJECT. HE REPLIED THAT HE HAD BEEN TRYING CUNSUCCESSFULLYS

TO LOCATE SOME SURVIVORS OF GUEVARA'S BAND, WHO HE UNDERSTOOD

HAD RETURNED TO CUBA, IN ORDER TO INTERVIEW THEM, HE FEELS

CASTRO MAY HAVE HEARD OF THESE INQUIRIES AND WANTED TO KNOW

MHAT UNPOLKA'S INTEREST WAS. CASTRO ASKED UNPOLKA WHAT

LATTER HEARD ABOUT GUEVARA'S REPUTATION IN LATIN AMERICA.

UNPOLKA REPLIED THAT MANY BELIEVE GUEVARA WAS BETRAYED BY THE

BOLIVIAN CP. CASTRO STATED THAT SITUATION WAS MORE

COMPLICATED THAN THAT, ALTHOUGH HE ACKNOHLEDGED THAT GUEVARA

HAD ERRED SY PERMITTING HIS OPPONENTS IN BOLIVIAN CP TO

RETURN TO LA PAZ AFTER A DISPUTE OVER TACTICS.

6, UNPOLKS STATED THAT HIS PRINICAL CONTACT IN CUBA

DAS A MIGH OFFICIAL OF INITO ROBERTO SA ALAS, HE STATED

SALAS IN LATE 30'S, HAD SPENT 18 YEARS IN U.S.. RETURNING

TO CUBA WHEN CASTRO SEIZED POWER. AND HAD ACCOMPANIED GUEVARA

TO ALGIERS, SALAS TRAVELS ABROAD FREQUENTLY, WILL BE VISITING

BELGIUM IN FEBRUARY. ACCORDING TO UNPOLKA, ALAS SEEMED TO

BE SENSIBLE, NOT DOCTRINAIRE. OPEN MINDED, PERHAPS SLIGHTLY

VENAL, 1.E., SOMEONE WE MIGHT FIND AMENABLE TO AN APPROACH.

?. UNPOLKA WAS LATE FOR ABOVE MEETING, AND TIME WAS

SECRET

DIMES TO

350

---

## Page 5

14-00000

871 860 201

LABLE SEE DISSES BN.-

FERSONIRIT NOTIFIRD

ATIVANCE COPY ISSUEDISLOTIED

ACTION UNIT

RF .

FILE

117 195

SECRET

SSUNG CECE PROMI

SSUING

STAFF

VR .

ACTION #

T 282446

E14910

PAGE 05-05

TOR: 8616352 OCT 76

LIMTED BY OTHER COMMITMENTS, WE HAVE SCHEDULED NEXT

MEETING FOR 12 OCTOBER, WITH FIASCONARO PRESENT, TO REVIEW

AND DEVELOP ABOVE PRELIMINARY REPORT AND DEBRIEF UNPOLKA

ON MARIO A VERMOFF PURON, HIS CONTACT AT CUBAN EMBASSY

HERE ON GUIDE BLUE PROJECT. APPRECIATE HOS TRACES BY

OPENING OF BUSINESS 12 OCTOBER ON SALAS, ALSO

APPRECIATE ANY MOS GUIDANCE, REQUIREMENTS BASED ON ABOVE.

CAN HOS CONFIRM THAT CASTRO-UNPOLKA MEETING TOOK PLACE.

@VERIFY GENERAL OUTLINES OF CASTRO COMMENTS! IDENTIFY

PRESENT WHEREAOUYS "CUBELA" (WHOM WE ASSUME IS AMLASH/1)

AND FRANQUI.

8. FILE DEFER. E2. IMPDET

IN 261444

PARI 71093

SECRET

---

