104-10192-10211 . | y

ARAIMICK -

“john C. TARBK a).
en ali? HX. Lik

Loe oossewrmation

jvece censtmmmarion

aten.eceeey

fc
2 a (tor COMKWESTFOR)
2 ~(Bacyy

lo-7.

i
TYPIC
Source: ~ANTOD-1 from AMDOG-1,
the information
name in source lines

! "Group 1: Excluded from.
Automatic Downgrading
and Declassification

(for €INCS0) — eeu 7 Peek

21 July 1965.
from Abelardo Dominguez. Do

1 cy. ca,,Miani Reps:

Customs
Border Patrol

AMDOG-1 obtained
not use Dominguez

eS copy

Up


Reese {
paieeees {
FIELD INFORMATION REPORT :

a | Guana OF SOURCE: A: Completely retattn 8 Creasy ratiabta, Cs Favity © Not uruaity retaten Ret masta tApphed
it ct Scutttut Peresiz ee Kersity, tegersteny of tment competencal. Fi Reliatulity cannot 8 ivared (Rooued fo untested oF maumcantty

testes sources)
APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1: Confirmed by ether indecendent and refusbie sources. 2 Probably true. 2} Poritly ove & Couten & Probebty

fee & Cannot be deed, ,
CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
Cl

! COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO.

t sussect Confiscation of Weapons by the DATEOF REPORT 10 August 1965

Government of the Dominican

bare aca (21 July 1965,

Tale te UNEVALUATED tnronwcniow, SoveCd GmAOINOG Ane DEFINITIVE APrmaibat OF CONTENT" TENTANGR.

Republic from the VENUS, a NO, PAGES: 1
i tit REFERENCES:
i OATE OF 20 July 1965
H paces United States, Miami ae ae
i $ cl 070-7443

SOURCE: A young Cuban exile who has been trainod in information collection.
His past reporting has been accurate but lacks depth. The
information in this report was recoived from another Cuban exile
who is in touch with members of the JURE.

1. The VENUS, a 110~foot boat which 1s used as a mother ship by the

Junta Revoluciunaria Cubana (JURE, Cubana Revolutionary Junta),
: _ and two Boston whalers, were in the American sector of Santo

Domingo, Dominican Republic, on 20 July 1965. The government of
: Antonio Imbert Barrera had confiscated the weapons which were

aboard, Including personal as woll as boat-mounted weapons.
Manvel Fy. Rivero, leader of JURE, said that regardless of who
won the struggle. for power in the Dominican Republic, the
weapons would be returned to JURE becauso JURE was on good terus
with both sides of the conflict. Fe

2. The following crew menbers were living aboard the boat:
Jose Ricardo Rabel Kunoz, commanding officer
Jose Miguel Ramos, second officer
Gilberto Baidio Fundora Alcazar, third officer
Haximo Delgado Frometa
Ricardo Adolig Cobo

Field Comme nt: TDCSDB~315/00539-65 dated 16 February 1965,
i from the same source, reported Rabel's’ plan to commandeer the
VENUS and the two whalers, It was believed that he planned to
: use the VENUS to exfiltrate his wife from Cuba, or to stage a
commando raid against a Cuban target.

CONFIDENTIAL chau
CONTROLLED DISSEM : ‘cnn

DISTRIBUTICR

