# 104-10219-10095

## Page 1

104-10219-10095

D

UNCLISSIFLED

SANTERHA

USE ONLY

CC IDENTIAL

I SECRET

ROUTING AND- RECORD SHEET

Soviet Young People's Surprising Awareness of Soviet Security

Activities Against Foreigners

FROM:

DOWESTIC COLLE

EXTEN ACH

NO.

Support Branch/¿parallell S-pport

0.1on

1H-25634

DATE

Room 900, Key Buildlug • ext. 2208.

TO: (Offeer degration, room mumber, end

trussiangl

/ DATE

NICENED

OFFICERS

INSTIALS

FORWARDED

J November 1973

COMMINTS prevaber ence comment to alone from ahea

to who. Dre a line across catures efter dodo comment l

SB/X/FR

5 B 01 Hqs.

The attached is for your

Information and possible

Interest.

SEA-00-A (S)-322/31747-73

3.

SB/SI/I

4 D

30

Hqs.

05 NOY 1973

12 Mu:

ch

ingrate is aides

SE/i/FR

7.

B.

20 HOV 1973

west

3-4- Plence classifi, len

decureat: (nt6 5411-282338

und index stone undelined

B 2 IMPBESTI.

CL BY 007622,

in tie

19209

13.

14

15.

FORM

DAY

610 TONOUS

D

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

DIRECTORATE OF

INTELLIGENCE

DOC. HERO. SER.

DEC 18 1973

MICROFILMED

COUNTRY

USSR

SUBJECT

Suvior Young Peoples Surprising

Avarenous of Sovier Security Letluities Irainst

l'orelmers/Williezess of the Young Peorle To

Relata Such Inforsation to a Visiting US Student

REPORT NO.

00-415)-322: 32747-73

26 October 1973

2

REFERENCES

OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report has been prepored by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational informarion contained

herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, ClA, without the prios permission

of the Domestie Contact Service.

US citizen. Educator.

5

3

l. A l'S educator who spent several months in the OSSR during the sumer

of 1973 reported that his collegc age child, tho accompanied his, had

bocone well aquainted with sone soulet young people la Moscow and

had learnad that they (tha young people) had an amazirg awarenesa of

Soviet security type activities againet foreigners. They were willing

to discuss these activitien quite openly with the young us visitor.

Thoy soned to know cho Identitles of forelenars who were under rug

picion, the reasons they were under suspieion and the nature of sur

veillance activesee that ware being carried out agalnst them.

The young l'S visizor, who spoals gassian fluently, mentioned two casea

in point:

one had to do with leo cruller, & correspondent for the

Christian Science Monitor. le ls apparently under suspieton because,

first of all, his parents were (or are) Pussiar.

Secoadly, he was

with quaker War Rellaf In the USS? durine Horld Kar II.

These cireu

atances, and perlaps others, have reportedly caused the soviete to

regard hin as some kind of

spy, and he is watched unassally closely.

There was convincing evidence of this then Grallow vas entertained by

the visiting US educator for dinner one evening in the restaurant of

the hotel where the is visitor vas staying.

As soon as the party eas

over and the US grous loft, the drunken husband of the vaitress whe

had served the group in the restaurant vas reportedly sumoved outside

by two Soviets who were waiting in a car, and he vas questioned in

Breat detail as to viat the foreigners had said. The young US visitor

heard this fron a yourg Soviet acquaintance vio either had a friend

ties hisself.

Another Instance wifeh secuad to demonstrate the youns peoples'

avareness of therfoviet officials' close serutiay of foreigners had

to do victo a US defector named "artin who ta helleved to bo living

In Koscen®

Durins the IS educator's viase to che USSR be (the edu

cator) recoived a letter fros friends in the US asking If he could

find out about Martin's present situation - Hia bealth, ete.

ibe

educator mentioned the lotter to his child (the IS student) and said

he ald not want to have amthing to do with the request that vas made.

By colneidence the l'S student had alrealy been fillod In on informazion

about "artin, hovever, by one of the yount Soviets. -The report sus

that lartin was living

In an apertment at the end of leningradekly

RECORD COPY

CLASSIFICATION

2

32193: 2065-087682

alder 73 0291

201-83538

---

## Page 3

Prospake, that he mn living on a pennion and ho sno sufferian fron

untreme boroden beenuse be apparently uns aot doing anything,. but

that he ss fa good health.

Adittonally. it was mentioned" ther

Martin appeared to be in hin liftles (while he 18 actually such

younger).

There ma, of courto, no way to vertig any of tale inter

mation, but 1e had been volunteered frealy to she US stadent by

soningly Intelligent young souters, and there conned no reason to

doubt its anthenticity.

• end

"".?

CHIIIIIII

---

