# 104-10338-10005

## Page 1

104-10338-10005 .*

'at?

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Coordination: JFK Assassination Document (FBI referral)

FROM:

Barry

Harrelson, Reviewer

EXTENSION

NO.

THRG

30171

402

ames

DATE

3-25-93

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

1. DCI /FIO

7F12 OHB

DATE

OFFICIAL'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED FORWARDED

3/29/86

2.

3.

r. Barm Harrelgon

ISI HRG

5. 402 Ames

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Becky,

For your reurewd

FBI memorandum

dated 12/23/63

(Brennan to Sullivan)

containing EJA internation,

We are proposing

"Release-in-Full" for

this document.

Bany

ho alyection to

full sellase o

This document

Becky Raut

---

## Page 2

13-00000

#0s0-i0

BAA ONA BIG. M00. 98

UNITED STATES GO ERNMENT

Memorandum

$ 01:94

Mons

a...a:

TO

12/23/63

F:.:

FROM

Cir. D. 5, Donna, 55/M

Hode

SUBJECT:

REACT A CENTRAL IN SEE

AGENCY (CIA)

Oswald PAtt

Reference is made to memorandum dated 12/19/60,

Pursuant to instructions, Agelli

zapich

CS

met with John hiccone, Director, CIA, on 12/27/63 him by iT. DeLoach s

CIA Director with false statements attributed to

so that you may have full appreciation of all aspects.

The Liaison Agent is reporting this meeting in some detall

Arent Japich advised McCone thai in had a

piece of business

which needies ironing out before the end of the year.

The Agent ex

pinined that since the assassination o Fresident Kennedy, there

have been various types of stories circulated concerning the case

the evirence collected; that some of these stories could innedi

??be discounted; and that there was certain information received

the Bureau which very directly affected relations between the

arcau and CIA..

The Agent stated that certain information had reached

ried proportion to be most alarming and that the Agent had requested

-rmission from Mr. Hoover to discuss the matter with the CIA Director

licCone was then told that he was charged with being the

Drew Pearson in that he, McCone, had stated that CIA had uncovered

a plot in Mexico City Indicating that Lee Harvey Oswald had received

stating that it this were true, hicCone had endeavored to leave the

inpression with certain people that CIA had developed Information'

not

known to the Eureau and, in essence, made the Bureau look ridiculous.

the Agent advised that if McCone had made such statements, we could

only assume that he was employing viclous and underhanded

1 tactics

since he and officials of his agency fully well knew that the story

i I concerning the $6,500 had been proved to be absolutely false:

HicCone's

latest the idea it the formation end the subsequ

the subsequents

1 = Hir. Belmont

— Kr. DeLoach

bond front

- Mr. Sullivan

• Nr. Granigan us nre:=

- Liaison

1. - lT. Papich:

(7)

NOT RECORDED ...

199 JAN, 2 1964

IJA

---

## Page 3

13-00000

chO MT. Brennan to Mr. Sullivan

¿e: RELATIONS MITE CIA

SECRET

corroboration of the polygraph. (5)

McCone was very visibly incensed and left the impression

that he might at any moment ask the Agent to leave.

After pausing

I6 a few moments, he made the following statements: (S)

(1) He stated that he has never talked to Drew Pearson

in his 11ze; that he has never sent any kind of messare to

Pearson directly or indirectly and that he does not have any

Intertion of communicating with Pearson.

He briefly referred

to the fact that he has been the target of attacks by Pearson,

one of these occurring within the last two weeks (5)

(2) With regard to the 1$6,500 story," McCone advised

that as soon as the original report was received from his

people in lexico City, he contacted President Johnson and

informed him of the development.

He explained to the Presi

dent that this was a matter which required Intensive Interro

gation of Aivarado and that CIA had coordinated very closely

with the FBI.. He told the President that Alvarado would be

kept in a safe house by CIA until the FBI was satisfied that

all necessary investigative action had taken place. (5)

(3) NcCone advised that he has not been critical of the

Bureau; that if he had any criticism he vould confer directly

with the Bureau and not get Involved in malicious gossip.

commented that in connection with the Oswald case, he has

encountered people who have been critical of the Bureau and

the Secret Service and he, Mclone, has gone to the defense

lof both agencies. (S)

AcCone was left in an angry mood but he did retain his cou

scure

throughout

Before the Agent left, McCone inquired about the

rotus of FBI - CIA relations in general and the Agent replied that

iy yere satisfactory? He also asked about the Director's health

As Indicated above, no statement was made which in any

ray might jeopardize the sectoity of Mr. DeLoach's sources.

• CTION:

sor insuration Went

---

## Page 4

13-00000

• .

Bring-his cy

CIA SE

RELA

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

-ONS

10 April 1995

2000

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. Grant P. Harmon

Unit Chief, JFK Taskforce

Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM:

Barry Harrelson, Senior Reviewer

Istorical Review GrOUP

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT:

Authenticity of Document

This is in response to your request to this office

to review the attached document and advise if it is a valid

Agency document or something made up using an Agency reports

format and information either entirely made up or from other

sources. The 3. August 1962 document purports to tie Dorothy

Kilgallen, Marilyn Monroe and former Attorney General,

Robert Kennedy, together with knowledge of an number of

matters, including the plot to kill Castro.

2. Those Agency officers who have reviewed the

document consider it to be fradulent.

While the format

resembles a "reports" form used in the 1960's, the

substantive information and presentation is foreign to

normal presentaion or collection efforts. Also, the control

stamps and other administrative items are not typical of CIA

reports written during the 1960's.

If you have any further questions in this regard,

please call me directly at (703) 351-2909.

Haul-

BH: gb

FOR OBBIGIAL USE ONTY

---

## Page 5

13-00000

kind on Find d...

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCI

COuNT of New York, US

. Напя) ул нактоо

1.

1l..r..

NOT FOR PUBLICATI

MOM NO.

DAIL SIN!!

NO PACES I'l

меленя:

3 Augunt 1962

Angust 1962

544 2a4 6d

Yat me al

of Marilyn Nonn

Sudh

Contente

Le. Nothbers disoused the ap

break up with the Kennedy.

Hollwood purtens hostily

wan booomine the talk of th

be

Gerturiatio

WISH -- FILES

* triat t

unt modetrt the the

•thurt by

rait and

I tbe

Jac: and his plane to have MASA put men on the

subjoot repantedle called the Attoray Genral and complalmed about the was

she was bille lenored by the ronident and his brother.

3o Subjoot throntonod to sold a press conference and jould toll all.

56

Subjeot made suf-.

177:.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

15 May 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Ms. Ellie Neiman

DO JFK Review Team

FROM:

Barry Harrelson

Senior Reviewer, CSI/HRG

SUBJECT:

FBI Request For CIA's Opinion

On Proposed FBI Release Of Agent

Specific Data

1. The FBI has

asked for an Agency response on the

following matter.

2.

HRG counterparts at the FBI are engaged in serious

discussions with representatives of the Review Board

concerning withholding the identities of FBI confidential

informants.

In the course of those negotiations, FBI

officers advise they are increasingly concerned about being

able to withhold the crypts and, possible even the true

names, of three former Soviet agents. Given that view, they

believe it would assist their overall efforts and

negotiating position if they could release additional

information on one or more of the three Soviet agents.

3. The three former Soviet agents are:

"TOPHAT" also encrpyted

as BOURBON;" true name

is provided on separate attachment.

b.

"SHAMROCK'

true name on attachment.

"FEDORA" also encrpyted or known as "IRONCLAD"

"SCOTCH"

AND "JADE;" true name on attachment.

4.

Attached are seven documents that the FBI is

considering for release.

Iwo of them are clA documents

found in the FBI JFK file.

HRG has been unable to locate

these documents in the CIA JFK collection.

5.

Please provide DO views on the FBI proposal.

Hamm

Barry Harrelson

Atts: A/S

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

IDEN ATTACHMENT TO 10 MAY 1995 MEMORANDUM

The following names and descriptions are keyed to

paragraph 3 of the 10 May memornadum:

a.

Dmitriy Fedorovich POLYAKOV; reportedly died as

result of Ames disclosure.

or alive is not known.

Aleksiy Isadorovich KULAK (Kulyak ?); reportedly

died of natural causes.

CIA

SECRET

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

---

## Page 8

13-00000

FBI fel IS

26.7.91

Pared this exwind

pation 1. D0'5.7p095

henno

to the FAI.

GUS

NOTE: GUy LEE CARES.

cincumence to do so keporchand.

a.

(SHAMROCK'S

real name,

8), 8 F,

may,not be released.

His identity has femained a secret for

13Q years. We do not know if

is alive or dead,

1B FBI

and believe that exposure could damage him and his family..

Tom RYAN'S name should be deleted from the front

cover of the SHAMROCK debriefing.

Mr. RYAN retired under

• IBFB,

cover,

and is employed as an intelligence contractor on a

sensitive project.

C.

The name and cover name of

should be deleted.

---

