ro4-t0241-10005

SER ER oy :

Sea

Ve Nay 1997
aye

ir

TORAUGEN FOR THE 810925

SYSIECT: ORGS Personalities in tins ‘tian’ area

SRE ¢

CATE OF TUF ORSATION:

nee
SEP Si

1, The KS6 building ia Minsk 13 cv Leninskty pros-

Pekt. There ts another entrance at ulitsa Yolodarskojo 2.

I The building occupies an entire city block « has its own
i- prison within this arsa,

(2. AXSENV, Anatoliy fleksaudra
in tlinsk. “He Trvae at tne louse of Sc
prospekt Lenina, Ant. 12, Minsk. Me is 16% cm. tall, has
a solid build (ne is a forrer gycnast) lead hair, tezel 4
eyes, and a soft-lookiag face with proa red veins,
Waen conversing, he has the aavit of Tnoking downward and
tnen suddenly raising his eyes tc Ilnek up. Source does
not consider him to Se aarticularly intelligent but rather
a8 having a “crafty, peasant approach to life.”

Born in 1948
fic Workers,

AKSEWUV, @ member of the Central Committee and Second Secre- :
tary of the Selorussian CP. This wakes father the second i
highest ranking Party official im tne Helorussian $52, ile . 7
has beem characteriz:d as a ruthless cargerist, The rvther

fis a physician who no lowner practices.

eee F APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
"9 GA HISTORICAL REVIEW PrecRnn

i
1
A, AKSCLAOY is the soo of Aleksandr Hiikiforovics



RB. AMSENOV'S Wife is Tattyane nee KO AKOVA,
bern in 1950 or 1951, im Ozerziiinsk-on-Volga, The father
aad wantec Anatoliy to marry tie daughter of another ner-
ber of tue Belorussian CC, Alensey Alekseyovich SHTRUOY,
ang tnis nes caused much conflict between father and son,
in atdition to tiat already yenerated by the son's heavy
crinking and his frequently setties into trouble when
drunk, AnSEdQY is afraid of his father. In order to curry
favor wits her father-in-law, ARSEMOY's wife reports epi-
soves of ner inusband's drunken vehavior to hin, The youncer
ASSLUOVS fiant frequently and separate fron tire to tine;
at tie tise of tie source's departure tivy were living
apart. The wife is materialistic and takes advantage of
her nusband's position. Sie deals frequently on the black
market,

C. They have a daugquier, Galina, bora in 1973 in
Ginsk. AKSEAOV nas a brother vio works for tie CC, CPSU in
‘oscow, and a sister,

OD. ARSLHOV attended Minsk Niddle Schcol 24 toe
vether with source, qraduating in 1966, He graduated fram
tae French Department of the itinsk State Pedagogical Insti-
tute of Foreign Languages in 1972, after whici, on his
father's insistence, ne enrolled in a KG3 scinol (apparently
in Kinsk), gradyating as a iieutenant in 1973,

€. He has since been working as an operations

officer (operupotnomocnenuyy) in the Operations Oepartrent
(Ope ativnyy otdel or operotdel) of the KGB in Minsk, {lis
first assignrent was at the Yudileynaya liotel, folloved ay
ne Turist Hotel, and at present ne is responsible for the
Yubileynaya Hotel, He holds the rank of senior lieutenant.

F, After becoming a KGB officer, AKSENOV continued

to associate with and other classuates, and through
iim Cacceerret @ number of oticr KGB officers and was abie
to learn something about certain KGB operations in the itinsk
area.

7 PRikin ?
3. BORICH. Yuriy (pnu). Bern in about 1559. Hie is cn
the son of—a iGE general (fnu). 6ORICH is app: 189 em. tall,
thin, nas ight hair winicn ne parts en the left side. He is



Spies =n sake Sonnanstine pre retinne e — a  e en ct a

=

oe

a quiet person, ile plays tne guitar. Ne and his wife are
both gracvates of tie Minsk State Pedagegical Institute of
Foreign Languages. tle speaks Geran and Englich, BORICH
Mas on essignrent in The Xetherlands (for the KGS, the
Source tainks), had returned io Ninsk but was scheduled to
return to Tne letherlands just before the Source's depar-
ture, :

4. CHISTYY, Fedor (enu). Born in about 1949,° ite
is tali (182 c5.), heavy-see, has blond hair asd deeply
set cyes. Tne source descrihes hin as cluesy, with » crudes
looking face, end as "stupid but crafty", We is a Graduate
of the Ninsk State Pedasocical Institute of Forefaqn Lan-
gucGes and was an informer wnile a si dent there, CHISTYY
Served in tie Army, He is a KGB officer, he works with
AKSENOV (see paragraph 1) in tae Operations Department. tle
fs a heavy drinker and smoker,

5. SURIY (fnu ny) fs 173 cm. tall, burly, and has
a face, waich resembles that of a bull«
cog. ie Te 7 ks in the sk KGB Uperations
Department, and serves as tue overseer ({kurator) of the Binsk
Motel, which is about 11 miles to the west of the city,

6. LAPSHOV, Viadinir (pnu). Born in about 1946, He
is short (16d neds neavy-set, looks like a boxer, has short
hair, blue eyes, and a birtamark on the left side of his face.
de has a penetrating gaze.

,
A. He was formerly a black marketeer. He is a con-
struction engineer, he has been to Hose
cow (ite is originally from Ninsk).
LAPSHOY may be KGB on tae basis of s

stopped by the militia for speeding. He showed some sort of
idenzification ch prompied tie nilitiaman to salute him
and let aim go.

8. We is marrtad to the daughter of ccosmonaut Pavel
Ivanovich BELYAYEY, wito died on 10 January 1970. LAPSHOY
likes to dress well and is constuered by Source to be a sinow-
off, : ‘i

4a

7, NOLOCHKO, Viktor Hikolayevich. Born in about 1946,

che is the Son of tie Nintetar oF Trote a the delnrusstan SSR,

dikolay Petrovicn MOLOCHKO. Viktor SOLOCHKO at Present is a
lieutenant in the KGB Opérations Departrent (Qveratdel). ite
is snort, fat, nas dark hair, is married and nas children,

Sore
: 3/

"ene vented



: 8. H9ROd (fav, anu), vorns for the 4G. le has been
ia Africa On aSsicn tT, possicly with military or econoric
aid, and nas publisued a vork on Africa, !0R02 always moves
in KGS circles. ite is married to the deuchter of a lieuten-
ant general (evaeral Jevtenant), wio censands an Arey. Ne
igs suort (avout lo? cn.) nos vulging cyes, a short neck, and
i: : looks “line a toad.* Ye owns a new cocel Volga, a sensation
} in MNiase, as only a few of these cars per year, are allocated
wilian purcinzse.

(3

r
SEMOY (see paragresa 1).

—_
|

WTRULS Yaxov Prokoptyevich. is a lieutenant
: Wothe Kos7end uead of the 2elo~
riend of Aleksandr wikiforovicih

10, PANES, Aleasandr (pau), 1s a retired «65 najor,
was forwerly a de yp CuYsT Of the Minsk KG2 Operotdel and
an iprediate superior of Anatoliy AS « FOUTS dauenter,
tyudrila, is a Ggraduat i tate Pedagogical Insti-
tute cf Foreign Lengu iend of tne Source.

i iM. SECHEYKD r (pny), Corn in about 1946. ite

H was tae only persen vradsated fron a KGB school (apparently
ja Minsk) with the rar of junior lieutenant, because of his
bad cesavior, te was later expelled fron the £68 for excessive
drinking and now woras at tae uvteorological station in ilinsk.
dts wife's aace is Temara. ;

1, SAZAMOVICH (fnu, pau). Is a &G2 colonel, Chief of
the Special Departnent (Osobyy otdel) of the Belorussian SSR
KG3, SAZAGOVICH interrogatey a Dtack marketeer, a friend of

tae Source. 7

13. SURGKIOY, Yevgeniy Fedorovich. Sorn about 1945,
Is a “GB officer. He Ts a greduate o he Physics Departnent
of the Selorussian State University. lis father is Fedor
Anisimovich SURGASUY, Chairman of tie Presidium of the Gelo-
russian SSR Supresw Soviet. Yevgeniy SURGAIOY fs about 190 cn,
tall, blond, of medium build, attractive. Wis Teft sioulder
{s noticeably lover than tae rignt, He likes to drink,

a. ZENOVICH {fnu, pou), We is aa Captain in the Belo-
russian x@i, was responsiole for Puilharronic Qrchestra but
chas been replaced. Lis wife's name is Svetlana, she was born
fn 1990. Taey nave 2 daugitter, Auna, born 8 March 1972, At
presant ZLNOVICH is iearning to drive a bus. Interviewer's
Comment: This possibly indicates tnat ZEANVICH ray have been

EZN i

Tired fron tae Kou.
:

Beak ced isc wien 120 at ainenene eens tecnaien aores emraanntemnens men matt Rete



—

\ 4
THYORVATION ALPOST ! i
BUDJECT : Leudersbip of the KGB in the Provinces Bid imam
i :
Leaderehip of the 16H i 3
in the Proviaces i H +
t
Rostovskayn Oblest ‘
Chief of the Usah: TUFCHENKO, Yu. Pp.
Chief , 2nd Dept. Ukca: Col. GASILIN ,
Gxhgorodakey» Oblast i
Chief of the UKGB: Col. KoveHAg’ :
Deputy ChieZ of the UxGb: Col. LavYDoy i
Chiof or Deputy Chief of a Bection of the 2nd :
i
Dept: ASTHELIX i
, }
Moldavian 658
Boldavina 68% :
H Chairarn KOR, Loldavekaya ESR: Genorsl SAVCERNKO 2
ee: (wes chief of the 1
} First Chior Directorate) 1
Dep. Chatrasn KGB: Major of 1.t. Col, ZARISEY |
Lithuanian §52 s j
Deputy Chairman, KGB, Litbuaaian BBR: Col. KOKOPLENKO : :
(was chief of a {
Section ia koccow
fo 1960)
1
i
ccf ~SeOo RET |
a a we >
‘APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
9 GHMISTORICRL REVIEW pRoda |

nein nem Sieh ge


4
2 ad tine

SRO
| 4
-2-
: i
Yolgogradskaya Oblast ' :
Chief UKGB: Major Gen, IL! ICUEV ici

Deputy Chief UxGB: Col. YESIKOV, H.8, :
Chief 2nd Dept: Col, BELOV

Georgian 588
Chairman KGB: Major Gon. INAURI i
i 4
Chief 2ud Dept: Col. KARVALISHVILI : a

Dep. Chief 2nd Dept: Lt. Col. NOVITSKIY j
Chief of a Beation of the 2nd Dept: Major Ya. 8. GOKIYELI ; i
Ukraioion 852 ‘
Chairman KGB: Major General NIXITCHENKO i
Dep. Chairmsn KGB: Col. SHUL'ZHENKO (Party worker)
Dep. Chairsan EGB: Col, ERIKUN (vas chief of 4nd Directorate i
Chief 3ad Directorate since 63: Col. BRAZHEO (prior to 1
this he was chief of UKGB ; j
in Khar'kov for 2 years -— !
Party worker)
Dep. Chief 3nd Directorate: Col. I.M. BULDAKOY
Chief, Ist Dept of tnd Directorate KGB: Lt. Col. A. KOVAL’
(wes chief of the

Qad Dupertmsnt ia '
Odessa

chee

Chief of a Bection of the lst Dept, 20d Directorate:
Lt. Col, MIROLAYEY (until 1963, be was deputy chief
of the lat department, 2nd Directorate) :

Chief of a Section ("Black Nerket”) of seme Dept, 2nd
Directorate: Lt, Col. PETAREKKO, Vi. &t.

|



a

~3-

UKGB Leningradakaya Oblast ;
Chief; Col. SHUMILOY, V.T. :
Dep. Chief: Col. b.¥, POCHATEOY i :
Dep. Chief; Col. LYAKIN (for cadres)

Chief of the 2nd-Dept.: Lt. Col. Ver. DEMIDOY (he is |
&lso assistant tothe Caief, UzGB)

Dep. Chief of the Ind Dept.: Lt. Col. SAVEL'YEV, Y.Y. ef
Chief of a Section of the 3nd Dept: Capt. Anat. KURKOV
Hotes: The Second Department hus 170-180 persons.

Lt. Col. G.I, PCHELIN was formerly chief t

of © section of the second department and H

is now UKGB repres: ative in one of the :
Leningrad City districts/rayoa. 1

UEGS, Irkutekaya Oblast
Chief of the 2nd Dept, UKGB: BEREZKIN
UXGB, Kaachatokaya Oblast
Chief of the 2nd Dept: Lt. Col. WN SYMASHKO

KGB, Latvian 882 7

a Deputy Chairmas: Col. 4.P. PALKIN (wae chief of a4
dept in Leningrad)

Catef of 2nd Dept: Col. Ya. P. KISELEV (was eontor
case officer ia the 2nd Dept of the
2ad Chief Directorate of the AGB
ia Hoscov, 59-60)

|
|
UxOB, Ltvovokays Obteet |
|

Chief: Col. SHEVCHENKO

‘ O-8-6-R-=T

70

1 NR ROL ASIN M ESET. FO A

i
i
i



-4-

URGE for the city of Moscow and Mowcow Oblast : i
Chief: Major Gen, BYETLICRNYY ‘

Dep, Chief; Col. YORGNIN

Dep. Chief: Col. GAISHKNKOV or GRISHNEHEOV i
Chief, 2nd Dept: Col. VABENKOV, I. Ya. i
Dep. Chiof, 2nd Dept: Lt. Col. ENYAZEY j
Dep, Chief, 2nd Dept: YEFREMENKO
Chief of a Section, 2nd Dept: BLOKHIN

Chief of a Eection, 2nd Dept: Lt. Col. GUEABOV, Fi.

(ig tbiz section, there is a group of workers

~ 3 persons - who are engnyed in CE operations
fa tho following hotels in the city of hoscuw
{and in the resturants of thene hotels):
“Qatanhino", "Turtst", “Yeroglavexaya”, Kievekay
“Teentral'naya", “Araeniya’, plus one other.)

UEGB, Stavropol'sriy Kray
Chief: Col. TAZASOV
Chief, 2ud Dept: Col. BORODKIN, i.

i
j
1
H
H

Stavropol’skiy Kray UGB Representative in the Cities
e of Kislovodsk and Yessentuzi: Lt. Col. POVES'KA, S.T.

Kragnodarskiy Kray
Chief, UKGB" Col. YEVOOKIMENKO
Chief, 2nd Department: Col. PABICH

seta cae

Kray UXGB representative in the

|

|

| |
| Deputy Chief, UXGB: Col. AKIKOY (he is also Erasnodarskiy ice
| ity of Sochi/where his/ deputy is

AYVARDZHI)

seca ee i earl

” |

4
{



Uebok £6 (city of Taghksot)

Chairman, KGB; Major General NAYMUBHIN (farwer Enief
of the KOB Personnel Directorate)

Chief, 2nd Directorate: Col, AZIMOY
Deputy Chief, 2nd Directorate; VOELCUANOY
Chief of a Department, and Directorate: KARAVAYEY, LN.
Deputy Caief of a Dept, 2nd Directorate: KOZLOVEKIY
Note: At the beginning of 1064, YEVOOKIMENKO and
HAYMUSHIN wore to switch positions —

YEVDOXIMANKO in Tashkent aad NAYNUSHIN
in Kreenodar,

Kabardino-Balkarska ya A88B

Chaisuan, KGB: Col. A. KISBLEY (at the beginning of
1964, be was to Lecome LOB Chairman of
tho cazukh SSR in place of Kajor Genoral
ARSTANBEXOV, who retired oo es pension
due to illness at the end of 1963)

3GB, Arocnian SSR
Chairman: Major Genoral BADAMYANTS
Chief, 2a¢ Departuent: Col. DALALYAN
Chief of » Section, 2nd Department: MARTIROGOY

KGB, Azerbaydzhangaya SSR

Deputy Chairman: Col. A. MAKEDOY

Chief, 2a4 Department: Lt. Col. “aLisev, Goa,
Seotiea Chief, 2nd Dept: Major BANTSEREY, V.
Sectioa Chief, 2od Dept: TARIVERDIYEY

Chief, OTO (Qperativno-tekhnicheskiy otdel): KULIYEY .
-G=E=C-E-E-T —

tabs

oa the jalan

cee ea


Gor'kovekaya Oblast
Chief, UXGB: Major General GC23SHKOV

Chief, 2nd Dept UZGB: Col, GaYAZNOV, K.

Siaferopol'skaya Oblust
Bimferopol'skaya Oblast UKGB Represent :tive in Yalta:
LAZAREY

Kuybyshuvakaya Oblast
Chief UEGB: KREMLEV

= Viedizirekaya Oblcat 7 i

Chief URGB: Col. V.A. KLYPIN (formerly chief of ist
Department, 2ad Chief Directorate, KG)
Gonel'skaya Obizst
Chief UKGB: Col. KAYDALA (fornerly chief of 2nd
Directorate, KGB of the Belorugsian 65a)
Odesskaya Oblust

Deputy Chief UKGB: BANDUAISTYY (formerly deputy chief
of the 2nd Directorate, KGB of the
Ukrainian 582-1956)

Deoptuy Chief, 2nd Department SHILOY

EGB, Belorussiao 53R
Chief, 2nd Directorate: SHIRNOV

7 Chief of 2 Lepartment, 2nd Diructorate: G&UZDEBV
E Doputy Chief of a Departeent: V. SUDARIKOV

Magadanskaya Obleat

Chief UKGB: Col, I.M, DARANOV (in 1662 wae chief of a
section of the 3nd Chief Directorate, KGB)

|
ned enektnnnen 3 |



VRAD! FUR DZ RECORD

DATE CF T.TaERVIEd: 20 Oct. 196b

@! Who fron tha 2nd DeparSsaont in Uxngorod workod @éth you?
ana Timent, I doen't reveuber his
i Dosiiiat fows bu pe ly nee Deputy Chief, GxGd, Usncurod
Oblest'. Also, (feu) ASIAKLIR, the deputy chief of a
poctios in tho 2nd Departmont. In addition to thin -
ecurveillencs.

Q: Beat wna the zgeat's Jeb or position io Otegsa?

A: I don't know, and I wasn't interosted in asking hin,

Q: Row did the agent returu 60 Odosec?

At I don't enow. I wasn't intereeted. Thig ia the work of

the_2nd Dorartrent, W233, Urhgorod. Tho guy had bis role
to play. Ke cave, did aie part, and left.

APPROVED FoR Reizase
CU HISTORICAL REMEWProcean

17

aaa toe ene el seul at ert

i

“irkdimerneeninrinen: eee mence tree

bene



Q@:
A

{pteee!

Face Torey aater®

opened ot a Court.
Revase

done .
sisted and st.

PP Se WAS Te OTe

Where sere Sou in the hotel?

Oa the 234 of Urd thoor.

Mbere wast Jan the hotel?

om care oF tbat

hee >

They raat

twas on the lat fJoor of the hotel. His wiudess,

Wry? Utts vw

giee, The
te lock the deus

L dunt remeeber, but In the wane hotel.

wan

ea dub ret
ough the

Mefore sou arrived in Uzhgorod had you seen

In Moscow I saw bis photograph aod the operational

pictures tnat were rade.

Did you auke any telephone calls or send ary telegrass

to Boscow?

This was gone by the 2nd Doparteent in Uzhgorod, Lvov.

and ‘Sages They us

nothing.
What hotel 4id you stay in in Li vow?

I doa't remender.

What hotel dig you stay fo in Winek?

A:
@

I don’t remerber, No - Hotel Selorussia.

Which officers helped you in L'vov7

Wen. I tcld thea to du ootnirg
abeut SJin L'eov and Bins. sathirg. no gurveillance.

1 wap wet by a quy. TI don't know bis nase, I needed
nothing. just a car froe the airport to the city. Be
arrived frou ee adie alwut 6 or 7 10 the eventog ata

the vest mornin

SJhad to rly ste Manaz,

Which officers hetped vou in Minek? é
Case officers of the 2ed Departant uf ECB. Belo-Rissta.

1 vietteds their office and said 3 dadz°

need anything



%
XQ
maybe A car, Tosptke there with ths Chief cf the 2th
Department Qourtates S Pisectorsce KG redox
(Sno) SHUAURV and visvted tho Geputy Chief
Directorate KGE Bvlo-Missta, ¢
.
t
I
:

