# 104-10192-10136

## Page 1

104-10192-10136

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REPRODUCTION PAGHIBIFEO

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

52B8 SECRET

PEABORILHIT NOTIFIED

16-15

"JAM JosE]

SE/WA/SA 3

1180

VR. FILEIDDP,

ADVANCE COPT

U.-..

8 8 Me

SE 6 HE 215082

SIN CITE SUOS 115Z

FYA" TYFIC YOCITE

19H: 69m 26681

RE: 019-63006

PLEASE PASS TO ASSIGILAT SEGALIARY HAUB FACH AMDASSUDOR IGLLESS

REF: YOUR ASG THiSCUGA CAS CHANNELS OF 13 HOVENDER 1964.

1. I SAU PRESIDENT CHLICH AND MINISTER GUIROS SASSO O

13 NOVENDER AND CONVEYED REFERENCE

POSITICE. THE PRESIDEKT

BAS VISIELY SHAKEL TO LEARN THAT US GOVERNELT WAS NOT

GINVOLVED IN TILS ARMS SHIPMENT. AFTER SORE DISCUSSION WITH

PLASTEN QUIROS, PRECIDET ORLICH REQUASTED THAT WE 1.OT

ISSiE LICSOSE FOR ACANG-I SHIPNENT.

* FRESIDENT ORLICH WADE CLEAR

HE WOULD DE HAPPY AT ANY TIME

TO MIDTHTARE ACTICE SUCH AS THIS IF VES. GOVERIGENT WANTED

NEBICO. WHILE WE GOES WISH SEE CUEA FREE hE INCLINED TO

AGREE LETH UIGO POSITIC RE HIT AND RUN RAIDS UNDERTAKEN

PRITE PALLY FOP PUBLICITY SAKE.

& PRESIDENT 'ORLICH'S DSCISION EASED CY SID REALIZATION THAT

L WOULD NOT BE DELE IN A FAVOR AND, 122 FURTHER REALIZATION

THAT CRO WOULD CE WHO FRESSED TO EXPLAIN SUCH A 576,060

FURCHASE OF ARMS IF IT BECAME A CAMPAIGE ISSUE IN I9G5.

SEGRET

700

---

## Page 2

14-00000

882092 1N1.26681

=E9 06 A-Gi PF 23 DOrig

IF BEGULIA CHANGEL ACTION

PLEASE ADVISE.

SECKET

CF N

SECRET

---

## Page 3

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

