# 104-10330-10081

## Page 1

1104-70330-10081

MAR 31 '97

12:02PM

P.1

CLASSIFIED FAX

TRANSMISSION

ARRE

202 7240088

To:

Fax #:

From:

Subject:

Barry Harrelson

703-613-3060

Michelle Combs

DS&T and DO Briefing Questions

Date:

Pages:

March 31, 1997

17, Including this cover sheet.

COMMENTS:

Barry,

Attached are the final versions of the DS&T and DO briefing questions. There are no changes in

the DS&T questions. Questions have been added to the DO list to reflect our conversation

March 19 and 20. You, of course, already have our detailed explanations for the earlier DO

questions. If you bave any questions or if there are any problems, please give me a call. I should

be in all day. See you tomorrow.

Michelle

---

## Page 2

13-00000

P.2

MAR 31 '57 12:03PM

HTLINGUAL

1. What kinds of records might the DS&T maintain on the HTLINGUAL project? How

could these records be queried?

Castro Agsassination Plote

1. What kinds of records would TSD or other offices of DS&T have maintained on the

various Castro assassination plots? How might a search query be framed to isolate

these records?

---

## Page 3

13-00000

P.1

MAR 31

"St

12: 09PM

SKUNK WORKS

A Personal Memoir of My Years at Lockheed

BEN R. RICH AND LEO JANOS

L

B

BOSTON

LITTLE, BROWN AND COMPANY

NEW YORK

TORONTO

LONDON

---

## Page 4

13-00000

31 '97 12:04PM

P.2

Food.

GRARY OF CONGREGE

SEP 1 5 1994

COPYAICHT OFEICE

Copyright © 1994 by Ben R. Rich

All rights resetved. No part of this bookiny be reproduced in

any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, Including

Information storage'and retrleval systems, except by a

reviewer who miay quote briaf passages in & review.

First Edition

TL 565

• R53

1994

Ilbrary of Congress Cataloging In-Publication Data

Rich, Ben R.

Skun: Work: a personal memoir of my years at Lockheed / Ben R. Rich and Leo

Janos, m Int ed

Includei sader.

TSBN 0.316 74330-5

Care in on adva 2. Dronen Company - Water sta Rich try I

Janos, Leo. II. IItle. II. Title: Skunk Works.

T1565.R53 1994•

338.7 623746 0973 - de20

94. 8732

10

9

7

$

3 2 1

MY PA

rubished simultaneously in Canadi

by Little, Brown & Company (Canada) Limite

Printed in the United States of America

---

## Page 5

13-00000

80

ly

ot

1e

S.

d.

it

MAR 31 '97 12:04PM

P. 3

OVERFLYING RUSSIA

158

The next thing we tried was something called a Salisbury

screen, a metallic grid applied to the airplane's undercarriage

in the hope of deflecting incoming radar beams, but it worked

only at some frequencies and altitudes and not at others.

Kelly thought it was more practical to. try special iron fer

rite paints that would absorb a radar ping rather thal.

bounce it back to the sender. The paints were moderately ef-.

fective but inhibited heat dissipation through the airframe's

outer skin and we experienced overheating engine problems.

But the paint lowered the radar cross section by one order of

magnitude, so we decided to give it a try. We called these

specially painted airplanes "dirty birds" and shipped the first

one out for flight testing in April 1957. Our test pilot, Bob

Sieker, too, the U-2 up to over. seventy thousand feet and

suddenly radioed that he was experiencing rapid airframe

heat buildup. Moments later his engine blew out and the face-

plate blew off Bob's oxygen mask as his pressure suit in-

stantly inflated. The U-2 dove straight down and crashed. It

took us three days to locate the wreckage and Bob's. body, An

autopsy revealed that above seventy. thousand feet he had

suffered acute hypoxia and lost consciousness in only ten

seconds. The culprit that killed him was a defective faceplate

clasp faat cost fifty cents:

The CIA was so desperate to buy time for these Soviet over-

flights that Bissell got Kelly to sequester four of our test flight

engineers and have them write a bogus flight manual for a U-2

twice as heavy as ours anch with a maximum altitude of only

fifty thousand feet that carried only scientific weather gear in

its bay. The manual included phony instrument panel photos

with altered markings for speed, altitude, and load factor

limits. Four copies were produced and then artificially aged

with grease, coffee stains, and cigarette burns. How or if the

agency got them into Soviet hands orily Mr. B knew, and he

never told.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

MAR 31

197

12: 05PM

P.4

Questions for Follow-up DO Records Briefing

April 1, 1997

1. At what point did the DDP begin to keep records of destroyed records? For

example, in a Cold Warrior footnote, Tom Mangold reports that as any of Angleton's

files were destroyed, "a complete record was carefully maintained about what had been

done. (George) Kalaris signed off on every file and the DCI's office was notifled."

(p. 143) Where are these records?

2. Could an archival search be run on specific topics for retired records at the CIA's

Record's Center? Perhaps an ARRB staffer could be present during the search to review

the abstracts and to suggest other fields or topics to be searched?

3. Could a crypt search for records containing relevant crypts be run through

cryptographic reference? How would queries need to be framed and stated?

4. Why is it so difficult to develop a list for all personnel (official, contract,

administrative, or TDY) assigned to the post referenced in RIF 104-10065-10199 from

1959-19647

5. We have been working to identify all technical and surveillance operations in and on

the Cuban and sovlet consulates and embassies in Mexico city between september 1

and December 1, 1963. Flow can we frame a search query to determine if we have a

comprehensive and complete list of all operations at that time?

6. How can a search query be framed to document all electronic take produced by the

Medço City Station in the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month) and

during the period of Oswald's visit? How can we verify that what exists in the

Sequestered Collection represents all records of the technical production that was

vailable at the time of the assassination? If additional records or original productio

till exists, where would it be stored or filed? What searches could be conducted t

retrieve any additional records? If such electronic take has been destroyed, do records

exist of the destruction?

%. Could you describe the process by which operational funds are proposed, approved,

recelved, and distributed (circa 1963). What funding and disbursement records exist?

How are they organized? How should a request be formulated to institute a reasonable

search of these records?

1

---

## Page 7

13-00000

MAR 31 '97 12:05PM

P.5

8. We have seen DDP monthly operational reports which contain information on the

allocation/ distribution of operational funds. Are there other DDP records which would

reflect how certain projects utilized their funding? How are these records organized?

How should a search query be framed?

9, Various open sources have linked the CIA to various journalists and publishing

companies during the 1960's. How should a query be framed to search for connections

between the Agency and journalists or publishing companies?

10. Did the Agency have any relationship, projects, or contacts with publishing houses

during the time of the assassination and in the aftermath of the Warren Commission?

How would a search be formulated to determine whether or not the Agency had a

relationship with any of the same publishing houses that were also publishing books

11. How would a query be framed to search for files on any office or person dealing

with organized crime and Cuba? How should a request be formulated to institute a

reasonable search on this topic?

12. Is there a comprehensive record or list detailing the identities of individuals on the

Interagency Source Register? How are these records organized? How can a search

query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular individual appears in the

Register.

13. How could a search query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular

Individual was given access to classified information by DCD (then OO)? What kind of

files are assembled in the process of clearing non-Agency contacts/ sources for access to

classified information?

14. ARRB's Request for Additional Information and Record No. CIA-13, dated

November 1, 1996, contained the following questions:

A.

What forms of backchannel communications were there between the

Mexico City Station (including the COS), IMWAVE, or Headquarters

during 1963? By "backchannel" we mean, inter alia, any administrative,

senior staff, or restricted access communications, or any written or

electronic communications other than regular cables or dispatches (of the

type included in the JFK Collection).

B.

Were there, In fact, any backchannel communications between the Mexico

City Station (including the COS), IMWAVE, or Headquarters during the

time periods 27 Sept - 16 Oct 1963 and 22 Nov - 30 Nov 1963?

2

---

## Page 8

13-00000

MAR

31

"97

12: 06PM

P.6

C.

To the extent that there were any backchannel communications for the

time periods 27 Sept - 16 Oct 1963 and 22 Nov - 30 Nov. 1963 (other than

those currently contained in the JFK Collection), please make such records

available for review.

Why has it been so difficult to answer these questions?

15. ARRB's Request for Additional Information and Record No. CIA-14, dated

December 23, 1996, documented our request for the annual or biannual Station reports

for Mexico City Station for 1963 and 1964. Why has it been so difficult to provide these

reports?

16. The attached Agency document released in 1996 contains the paragraph:

11. A memorandum marked only for file, 16 March 1967, signed M.D.

Stevens, says that J. Monroe SULLIVAN, #280207, was granted a covert

security approval on 10 December 1962 so that he could be used in Project

QKENCHANT. (Clay) Shaw has # 402897-A.

What do these numbers mean? What does the "A" at the ends of Shaw's number

signify? Do the files identified by these numbers still exist? Why was Sullivan granted

a covert security approval?

17. During the period 1959-1963, what was the purpose or goal of QKENCHANT?

18. Under what circumstances were non-agency employees given covert security

clearances for the QKENCHANT project?

19. Did Clay Shaw receive a covert security approval for the QKENCHANT project?

Why was one needed? Did Clay Shaw receive covert security clearances for any

project other than QKENCHANT

20. What did Clay Shaw do within the QKENCHANT project?

21. Do records exist to account for the disposition of all files on Clay Shaw?

22. Did Howard Hunt have any involvement with the @KENCHANT project prior to

19647

23. Did J. Monroe Sullivan have any involvement with the QKENCHANT project prior

to 1964?

3

---

## Page 9

13-00000

MAR 31 '97

12: 06PM

SECRET

P.?

SECRET

24. The DO telephone directories list an Operational Services / Defector Staff beginning

in October 1959? What was the Defector Staff? Did it have an operational component?

25. In the period 1959-1964, were DO officers, selected to serve overseas!

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

31.92. 12:07PM •

o did rin

P.8

MALRAOND, PER FL. 100-B98 (STK102)

A HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRA

olease As Sanitiz

1008

• Д.

M page 4 here paragraph i:

Enclosure 21

I've uncludes a por copy

of page Y that contess

the'st!

+ 1067.

gURJ CLAY LOXBHW (202-813493).

subjeot was bom on 17 March 1913 In New Orleans,

Loudeland.

standard background Information on Subjeat

(parants, marital atatue,

records of education and

enployment, eto.) La lacking because SHAW was a contact

of the Domestio Contaot service.

Traces on Subjeot have been run in RID/Maln

Index,

the indos o& the orce of securty and the

Central Cover Staff.

The flrat showed onls a 1951 FBI

Interview with SHAW about a former employee of the New.

Orleans International Trade Mast.

the sacond showed

tiat 00/Contacts Division had raquested a name trace ;

'about 1949 and that the check of FBI redords then co-

ducted was negativa, Central Cover Staff had no record.

some of the O0-3 reports bared on sHAw's

reporting are on hand.

Thay are the

following.

1a noted that the source devoription idantifies the

'source by job titze.)

•** 00v3 47958,

26 Masch 1952, concerne

a letter weitten to the pubiio relations

Airector of the International Trade

Mart by one De. Jutta SCHArTER, & trade

conaultant to the Bonn Government:

The

letter 1a a follow-p of disonion hold

Now Orleans during December 1951e

The

letter said that Sov at produation and

export trade were being advertised and

documant Number o

1930-492-Y

for FOlA Revlew on*

DEO 1977

---

## Page 11

13-00000

P. 9

MAR 34:97

LELANDED, PAR HI. 102898 (T% 101

- Dia 21414]

- SECRET

promoted by Weit German money.

In Lage, He cart bat Bubtaned

In Hamburg, at a peice much lower than

compatitive volumes.

00-3-93840

27 December 1940.

Information

aogulend 18 Dacember 1948.

SHAW identified

by job titial has agreed to lease to the

lease

00-5-4933-49, 14 June 1949, Information

date late April and early May 1949.

of a trip SHAW mada In March through. May

1949 In West Indles, Central Anariod, and

Northern. South Anagica

₫.

00-1-4934-49, 11 June 1949,

sane general

subjeet and baokground as above.

® .

00-3-4935-49, I1'June 1949, as above.

{..

00335477, 29 June 1951. ,Results of &

SHAM krio in 1951 in Centrel and .South

America and the Caribbean ared.

foreign Portoy Arnoc ation of

It Is bellevad that he was introduced by Clay sunw.

On 3 March 1969 the Washington Stag seported

that Garrison had arrested SHAW and had made publio

charges that siNt,.

MERA, OSwALD, and others and proceec

he amassination in the apartment of FERRIE at 3300

Ioulalana Parkway, New Orleans.

SHAY has said that he

never sAw OSwALD.

Tie denies having used the name Clay

BERTRAND®

Jack l. MARTIN ald that FERRIe had mentioned

---

## Page 12

13-00000

P.10

MAR 31

197

•'a"

ti'd

12:06FM

HABA SU.

T20i. 214/147

SECRET

SHAN to him.

So. MOnTOe SULLIVAN, executive diractor of

the san Trancisco World Trade Center, told the Arociated

Preas that Saw was In San Francisco and touring the

Canter with him on the day of the assassination.

shAw,

now ratted, was formarly the managing directos of the

International Trade Mart In New Orleans.

old..

He 1n 54 years

said that the

FBI had Investigated sill late In 1963.

that the far has, there was no connection found" with the

ausaveination.

7 Memorandum No. 84-67, J March 1967, from Chief,

Now Orleans Office, to Director, Domantle Contaot Service,

The firot contact of the New Orleans oifice

of the DCs with Clay aHAW occurred In

December 1948-

A namn check raquest was

• rotured "no into" on 23 Hare:

1949+

SHAW

was contacted by Me. Hunter Lacke of tha

New Orleana

offsea saven, times an 1945,

twice in 1950, Elve times In 1951, nina

tHen in 1953; ond t41ca 53 1956.

twice 1n 2954,

twice in 1955, and twice 1n

1e the source

SHAW

of aight 00-3 reporte sw

mitted by the New Orloans office.

At one

time ho had the "y" number 115.1.

The

Last contact took placo on 25 May 1956-

On 23 January 1967 Jack S. MARTIN phoned

the New Oxleans office, said thet he was

working on an important undercover dead

for. Garrison and Detective Louis IVON,

and was calling at IVON's roguest. lo was

culling to ank the head of the CIA offion

to telephone IvoN on hit untated number.

No all me teen counsel ba

the writer, Moyd

A. Ray, aoke that the

Informad and that he provide advice.

Undated and unioned menrand to inter

produced by c/Re no

The following additional

mation was provided by the Naw Orleand ofence of DeS:

3

• "O

---

## Page 13

13-00000

MAR 31

$97

12: 08PM

P. 11

DOUCITO AT THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES

Sines 25 May 1936 Mr. Hasbonteckonad scon stAy casualty,

by chenca.

In varlous

"Zountown Riw Orleono

contauranto,

and arnotinge vard exchanged.

thar sade nuch canna.

anesuntor was ust bofoza GrAMs zacarenone an 1265.

Д .

On a March 1069 Tanvas pobilchad on asciolo

"Clay Shaw of cha

Cin". datelined Rors, & March

2067, witton. by Vi YERILKOV,

To anticlo chorgod thas

Cil Made, unc of the services of Clay Sind fos CIA's can

Incaraot in Italy.

nanascination. conapiracy

In Pons un i Vogld Frado Cortor 102d0z-

It claims that

tho Contos.war a coroz fe: finnaing anti- Communios activity.

CIA gava directives to. SIAN.

To Moeld Trade Contor was

a branch of "rainloon" (aic),

*which tho posopopare in

Evikanzland oponly accusod of loriminal onoratione

(Cormantr

It appaar that oll o% the Pravde chargoo are

•une-yo, Oscope that thora was a CIA-BURN

Faisclonahip.

Sc

£ar,.06. da. knoún; SUAX won soror asked to uso hir zciation

chip wich tha World rando Contor fo= clandostino purposes

unde

'In fact,

ho hao not boon an Italy.

10%

20G7 subjocts, Icalim Ardoco pi tho clay Thau MiagE,

pho countons Balla Boin of 3. Yaros 1049 has da abbiolo

about sia,

the antastination, ond, cho. Nosid trace Consor

Contains no rolavant inforcation.

woo giantád a covart socurity copzoval on 10 Dacombor, 1962

no that he could bo uzad in Projoet Cretchair.

SUAk hes

0602097

ilorogandum fron

2907;: Gubjadt:

isaaoe Koallto an. Parrone Conncatod with

"Contra londikla. Concorcinlo" (Kozlá Izaño Conte=), 51206

---

## Page 14

13-00000

MOR 21:97. 12:09PM,

MMLAND FER PLi 102890 (8K ACE

I SARA SU DAi 214/47

P.12

Same page,.

better copy.

QK redacted

SECRET

sinca. 35 May 1956 Me. Hunter Leake had seen SHAW canually.

by chanca,

an various downtown New Orlena testaurants,

and greetings ware axchanged.

The last such camual

encounter was Just bafore BHAW's ratirement An 1965.

On 9 March 1967 Frauda publinhed an artiole

called "clay Shur of. the ad datalined tone, 6 Mare:

1967, Wiltten by v.

ciA made use of the sarvioes of Clay SHAW fOr CIN'S OWn

Interoute In Italy.

In New Orleans le accusing StAY. of participation In the

spassination. conspiracy. It days SHAW spent "one year"

In roms an & Horld Trade Canter leader. It claim Chat

FATE

The artiele charged that

The Pravds plece notes that the DA

the Center vas 's cover-for financing mil Communint notlvity.

ada gave caractives to SHAW. The World Trade Canter wa

(ale),

"which the newspapers in

Switserland openly accused of 'criminal operations

(Comments It' appears that all of the Pravda charges am

untrue, excapt that there was a CIA-SRAY rOlationahip.

tar aa

In Known, SHAW was nover asked to use his salation

ship with the World Trade Conter Lor clandestine purposes

and, in fact, he han riot been in italy.)

20.

1967 aubjnot. Itarm specte of the clay shaw MiE.

The Consore della Sara of 5 March 1967 has an artlole

about BlAH, the assassination.

and the World Trade Center.

contarns no relevant information.

so that he could be uned In Project LJENCHANT. SHAW has

1402897-8

Mamorandun from C/EUR/I to C/CI/R & A, 24 March

1967,. Subjeat:

"TraGe sasulte on Persons Conneated With

Centro Mondale Commarchula" (World Trade Center), filed

C/N'& A folder, Clay silnh - working papara.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

PR 31 97 : 12:29P1

UPMORIESO AT INN NATIONAL ARCO MU

P.13

I MARA SUDATA 2/4147

-SEORT

The 5: March 1967 Lalue of Il. Menuuggazo

Linke sHAN with the World Trade center.

othere linked to the cantor wore traced,

with resulta coported in this. mamorandum.

No relationahip to the Garcison Invastigation

A report on

"Parmides

in a pration a the in because the

In Rome,

World Trade Center and Permides are

associated. gain, thore is no information

here which relates significantly to the

case Gariiion fa trying to build In New

orloans..

13.

The Washington Post, Outlook, ? Aprll 1967,

"Sanking Truth In New. Orleans In the Middle of the

Night", George Lardnor, JI.

Carrieon't men droye rossO to shAw"s

French Quarter homa.

R0S50 posed an a

Mutual or Onaha salesman.

He Knocked at

doors SHAW anewered.. RUSSO said that he

Was Clem BERTRAND•

SILAR 1E a 54-year old bachelor and

socialite who ploneared the 33-tory

International Trade Mast In New Orlaan.

le was subpoanaad by Garrinon's office

According to his Erlande.

on 1, March 1969 ald not advise him of hie

him questioners

righte

They told him they had avidence

of a meeting with ferris and OSWArD.

There was a fume and Sian was arrested

and booked on consplay to murder JeR.

That night Garrison's man calded BrAW®.

apartment and contiucated whipe; chains.

a black not cap, a cape and hood. RU350

told reporters that he did not know clay

SHAN, but he Identified the man arrested

by Garrison as Clem BERTRiND.

---

## Page 16

13-00000

Mr. Cruxe. No; I thick in each case it will depend ao much on the atoation

with the partientar peror. It l peraon comes in and be fa very agitated or

romething of that kind, it might dictate a lotally different ayproach than a dider

ent kind of thing

Mr. Duzzas, Would't It be metol though to fire I don't want to sugeent

42-393

what the Secrotary of State should de in this, but in the light it this expert-

ence, would there not be some beneft possibly in gling people i the feld the

resit of the experience guinel in thia partierlar case?

Mr. Oxana. Well; the general appreck, and other matters related to it,

ure touched an in orientation coursed for consular oficers and no 00.

ma I look on Consul Snyder's actlons, that he bebared very much lice a respon

sible Forelgo Bervice officer.

Tint bappened long before I was in the Department, so I can Bay thiat

without any involvement, But it somed to me that he did jost what-he

should bare done, despite the unfortunate aftermath. And It shows to me, at

Jenst, that the tenining nod ocentation that these people are getting le right, i

of Hbram Chayes

of state

miriceable, and they aro ahle to handle them utaations as they come ta"

Nix, Dures I realis that you ought not to prescibe bard and hat rules

that there is a broad range of direlion that should be exarcined here.

'Jost ratie the guestion us to whether a guod deal of experience basn't been gated

In this case in that very feld.

Mr. OgATRA. Well, It muy very well be that more attentio to that particular

•annect «bould be' piven lo the odentation coores and no on

tend. to reflect what In hot nt the momet you know, and it you haven't had

o mention el

• trouble with something, for a pretty long time, it tenda maybe not to get

Reprentatire Fan. If Orwald had perdated that day, October 81, In de

Dept.

would Bnyder have bee regaired to give It to him and permit bim to alga it?

Mr. Cares. I think it It had been in ordiary

office hoars when the con-

mate was open for burians, and l Snyder was satisfled that he wan compebeaty

that Drwald was competent, he woald have to give him the form, yea, kir.

Begresentative Fose, Doen Snyder, have the authority to mako a debermina.

Won of' compelency 1

Testimony

Legal.Advisor

Mr- Chara No: ha doem't have the suthorily to make a determination of

competence, and I suppose it ls poosible at some point to get the issue tried in

court

But I Chial a conclar alicer would probably be actlog within his

discretion if he saw sombody who was drunk or caving or smething and just

sald; "Well, I am not going to gire you this until I am mre that your action is

your ict"" After all; when the commil nocepta the oath, be is certifytug that it

to the aet of the perm, ln i meaniogful sense, and no if he thought that the

aren

person was hocompetent, I think he woald have discretion pot to give the oath.

Ext I pot that for astde becarise in the partienlar cose bore, Mr. Boyder made it

perfectly clear that he bud so reason to donbt that Orwald was fully competent.

And so lt Orwald had been there nt a tie when the offoo was open, or had

returned at a time when the office wus open, and hul persisted in his demand,

I think Anyder would have been under ao obligation to give him the form.

Representative Imo, The only technieal renson er baale upon which Enyder

could have denied Oswald the right that dey was the fact that it was on a

Baturday, a non working-hour pedod of the Embasky.

Mr. CocaTra Jes; I Chipi ho had every right to try to diamade bin, or per

made him not to act er perinade bia to think it over and come tack the next

day.

But It utter all of that Orwald still bad sold "But I want to do it now"

and te the offce was open for badness, then I think be would have bail to do it

„Mr. Dure I Chink it night he matal it le has not beci done to introdacs

at thie pont us un exhibit, the form at outh of remundation.. Here la the for

maliced oath and I think-lt woald be well to have this in our zecords unlem

It la already in vor recredi

Beprentutive Vora, I aerse.

Mr. Camunr. No: it int Could nemy it wil be marked as Commiss

Exhibtt No: 155 and nuce thin wdicker on that nes phoboctat it and then just

(Corantanion Ichilit No 06o wus marked for Identicution and recefred to

Representative Fic When Orald came back an November 8, 1 belkere, which

was a regalar worldng de

Mr. Couman. Mr. Cuminion, ho dil not some lack on Normber I Ha

merely wrote a lother.

Mr. Craves. Wrote a letber.

He never came back.

Bepresentative Fom Are mi at the employees, Me. Boydec,-Mr. MoDelur,

and. the others who had any. Anthand contact with the Ormile cane to thin

ures, were they State Department enployses?...

Mr. Charge Yes sr; there bro man who were the only one who lid me

him directly, I think the mortary, their secretary aho sew him, bat had cong

to do with him sept an a reccotionist There two men were Torego. Bery.

Joe officera unid are now Foregn Beryloe officers

Repeatatlye Vow, In the africhet term 4

Mr. CAria ten pie; members of the race service apponbed ay this

President with tho advice and copsent of the Benate

• Rogresenta tire Iara, 'Could you tell m to' a bit moro detall the proces that

you followed or the procedure that you corded out who you tirat got into the

Xou mentlued yenterday you got a call or you were directed by i belleve

the Becretury of State az by mmebody in bigher unthority to tute certain steps

Wil you tell us who called you, what you die in the firet & or 1 days?

Mr. Onaire. It was the erening «ê the day, perhaps about E oclock 'ex thi

day of the amandation. It may have been somewhit curtler, becise I thlnk

I remember I went home for mn bour and tben come back' to exry out this

ignment. Mr. Ball, once it becgae known that Oswald had mme history a

GeORGe WILBALL

Mr. Douse. Ball in the Undec

i Becretarz of Statin

Mr. Charms. He was then the Acting Secretary Decause the Becretary of Bonte

as you recall was on A plane over the Pacific,. 8o he was the Acting Secretary.

But even tl be hud been the Under Becretury be le wry client.

Representative Fora. He stil had some autbority.

Mr. Castes. Ten; he directed me to gother together the files in the Derurtment

on Oswald, and to prepare a repoit to be avalinble for him the frut thior in the

munday covering an best-we cond within that time man the contacts that

Oswald had with the Department

We got the passport file. We got the scority affoe ille. We got the permi

conular services fle which covered Mira. Owalts vian and the repetzlation

Joan: I think those three fles were the mies that we had. It may have been

there was a smaller fourth fle, but I thial those tire were the ton

Beneecentative Tom, What wold that smaller fourth file bet

Mr. Charma. I cun't remember. It win duplicates it it was anything. Oh, that

la rigbt we bad a visa file rod ua BCS ile so those were the four.

file, that is Special Comar Servlees, In the offoe, In the Bureau of Becurity

und Conmiar Afalre

Representative Mora. You got thi onder on or about is oclock the 228 ot

Mr. CHarma, The 22d6 you air.

Bepresentative Tor, And you lamed orders to have these files brought in,

or did you go and get the yourseles

Mr. ORATE. No.

Bepresentative Forn, Or what haypned?

State Dept: emploco

Mix. ORaTes I loned orders to bare them brought lo. Trated 1ea tryng

to think how we got then (Inuipt to Mr. Mrichy Did you go dowe and

get them! Mr. Kurlich and Mr.

Correnfeld, another of wry people, we worked

through the night on this, the three of us all together sui it mur bo thet the

bro of them went down to get them. I don't think we furt called over the lele

phone and wiked them to be brought un

. (Dimension off the zecord.)

Mr. Ostral Il l my recollection that me of there the rhtlemen, ethe

---

