# 104-10215-10056

## Page 1

104-10215-10056

SECRET:

SUBJECT. Rolando CUBÉLA Secades

Bore 19 Jas 1933. Cuba.

(AMLASH - 1)

201=252234

BACKGROUND:

Former medicals students

(OUT CABLE SEPT 6L.)

with 26th July, forces in Escambray

Handpicked by Raul CASTRO to head Havana University

Student Union;

Led government intervention, control

of Havana University

destruction of university autonomy;

Patrolled university in radio equipped jeep arned with

sub-nachine gun:

Organized Communist hard core

e soon squads to beat up.

opposition.

Opportunist with Conmunist sympathies;

Travelled to Red China 1959;

Contacted pro-Communist students on Montevideo trip June 60

A mored homasexual

15 Aug 61 - Naj Cubela, Pres: of FEU, left Cuba for US$R

and other Soviet bloc countries: also, India, Japan, Italy

Spain and France.

Nov. 61

-attended beeting of CRU, Costa Rica as

observer.

8 Jan 62 FBI report. Cubela probably changed mind about defec

ing and coning to U.S. because he afraid he would be

Incarcerated in an inmigration detention Camp.

10 JUne 62 - Cubela travelled to Helsinki via Prague to

attend World Youth Festival. Cubela got word to Lose vIa

rerugee (mother of Lucia ECHEVARRIA Bianchi) that he.

wanted to defect and enter U.S.that on way back fron trip

he planned call friend TEPEDINO in N.Y. and request assist-

ance for entry to U.S.

Agency planned have ANCONCERT-I

contact TEPEDINO and offer financial assistance for Cubela.

entry to U.S.

19: June 65 cable

-states CUBELA known to have rejected

proposal to detect in Narch 1961.

20. July 2962 CS: report in Spring: 62 Fidel sent Cibela

to interior to criticize local militis for their activities

in order to win public favor.Cübela stayed at hone of

Eusebio HERNANDEZ, an employee of the Dept of Sanitation

in Canajuani. His son had been classmate of Cubelal and

was counterrevolutionary. Father told Cubela this, but

Cubela didn't seem concerned:

3 Aug: 61 UFGA 2049 -

Cubela was arrested attempting flee

cuba, = States, attempted departure of Cubela was an alleged

trap with Cubela witting, which resulted in arrest of

several anti-Castro individuals.

POA granted 2 August 1962 for recruitment in place as

possible defector.

hand"

TERED Noraction musercone, tron sithin. Hadischeme for

pames. Concerned Soviets exploring cuba for ow ends in

Laxin Anericasrand growing concotidation Castro posattoa

thru education'of youthuand nassive, prop effort on people.

Felt USu support necded for success but also fele it there

assressive anti regine/ action threatening Cuba position,

Use would yreld, torextreme Soviet pressureto maintain

cuba status quo.

378, 5.

---

## Page 2

: (continued)

• No discussions yet any financial aid or other commitments.

Following Helsinki festival, planned return Cuba and enroll

in officer refresher course

army contacts and

would attempt re-establish some military and govt circle

contacts.

was to handle and assess Cubela, inParis

mid-August iy0i.

Runors had been rife since June that

he to defect this trip.

Repeated that previous soft sell

attempt to defect him by Mexico City C/O failed Nar 61.

believed widespread rumor (in view Cubela

background mar have been planted for provocation purposes.

to poly him. Cubela planned to spend

7 days in France and 5 days in Prague prior to return to

Havana, 28 Aug 62.

17 Aug 62 Paris:

Cubela appeared sincere and honest in

expressed desire return to Cuba and remain in place and

cooperate.

Neither asked for nor was offered any financial

or other considerations.

Agreed to intell collection assignment. Was to be given

SW

training and Spain drop address.

Talked at length about elimination of Cuban regime leaders;

said he could and would carry out mission.

AGAIN repeated

he would need basic instruction in plastic explosives

about which he knew nothing.

Just far pappor

raised question of poly and Cubela reaction

such that to have pursued matter further would have

destroyed rapport and ended op association.

C/O said he had no intention give Cubela physical

elimination mission, and that he not be given plastics

to take back to Cuba.

Clear that his value was as FI

source and "not as torch man".

Emphasized he not to

embark on sab missions without direct CIA approval.

N.B. Cubela was levied reamt. purpose of recent influx Sovid

Bloc techs in Cuba;

how many more expected?

now many; where assigned; task;

Cubela was

given explosive instruction with field

demonstration on 20 Aug 62.

Stephens

---

