104-10268-10000)

nos SECRET REPRODUCTION
s PROTIBITED

1. MEXI-9332, 6 May 1964 [duplicate of FOIA No. 683-391]

2. Memorandum passed to Mr. PAPICH of FBI with informa-
tion on photo coverage of embassies and information on
KOSTIKOV. [XAAZ-3590 - FOIA No. 182-621)

3. Cover sheet to MEXI-7034

4. HMMW-15488, 18 May 1967 eu aa

S. Newspaper a ik REPRO QIN N and Paul SCOTT
“CTA pad aie rom Warren Commis-
a BUTED

6. MEXI-9332 (IN PROMIN [FOIA No. 683-291]

7. DIR-18827, 4 May 1964 [FOIA No. 677-289]
8. DIR-87770, 9 December 1963 [FOIA No. 354-719]

9. MEXI-7067 (IN 68291), 26 November 1963 [FOIA No.
124-54]

10. Cover sheet to MEXI-7067 (from Mexico City File)

11. WAVE-8149 (IN 67731), 25 November 1963 [FOIA No.
101-573]

12. Cover Sheet to WAVE-8149 (from Mexico City File)

13. MEXI-70S5 (IN 67620), 25 November:1963 [FOIA No.
89-33]

14. . Cover Sheet to MEXI-7055 (from Mexico City File)

15. MEXI-7054 (IN 67378), 24 November 1963 [FOIA No.
85-565]

16. MEXI-7054, 24 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)

17, DIR-84920, 24 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 65-25]

18. DIR-84920, 24 November 1963 [FOIA No. 65-25]
19. MEXI-7034, 23 November 1963 [duplicate of FOIA No.

59-23]

20. Meets (IN 67231), 23 November 1963 [FOIA No.

21. MEXI-7033, Hfiexico City File)
including ‘c di of FOIA No.

55-546]

22. MEXI: Joss (IN PROMERED. 1963 [FOIA No.

23. MEXI-7029 (IN 67190), 23 November 1967 [FOIA No.
56-20]

24. MEXI-7028, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
including cover sheet. [duplicate of FOIA No.
58-549]: -

25.. MEXI-7028 (IN 67187) » 23 November 1963. [FOIA No.
58-549]

REPRODUCTI
PROGIBIMED

ae

SEGRET

0-ol4q


26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.
33.

34,
35.
36.

37.

38.
39.

40.

41.

42,

43.
44,

4s.
46.

47.
48.

49.

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

SECRET REPRODUCTION
_ PROMIBITED

MEXI-7025, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 60-550]

MEXI-7025 (IN 67188), 23 November 1963 [FOIA No.
60-550]

MEXI-7024, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)

— tae

Hi
MEXI: znd Vener 1963 [FOIA No.
MEXI-7023, Pee BN Mexico City File)
[duplicate ° N ~545)

MEXI-7023 (IN 67108), 23 November 1963 [FOIA No.
49-545]

DIR-84888, 23 November 1963 [FOIA No. 39-38]

DIR-84886, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of 40-541]

DIR-84886, 23 November 1963 [FOIA No. 40-541]
DIR-84821, 23 November 1963 [FOIA No. 51-18]

ol CIN 66846), 22 November 1963 [FOIA No.
27-10

DIR-84802, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of 26-8]

DIR-84802, 22 November 1963 [FOIA No. 26-8]

MEXI-7014, 22 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 29-12]

ela CIN 66781), 22 November 1963 (FOIA No.
Q-

Memorandum for The Ambassador, dated 16 October 1963;

Subject: Lee Gs WALD/ Conesed with the Soviet Embassy.
[TX-1919 - FOIA No. 9-

MEXI-6534 Mexico City File)

[FOIA No.

MEXI-6534 ( Soe 1963. [FOIA No. 8-4]
beliit

DIR-74830, pb ‘om Mexico City File)

including cover sheet. duplicate of FOIA No. 7-2]

DIR-74830, 11 October 1963 [FOIA No. 7-2]

MEXI-6453, 8 October 1963 (from Mexico City File)

[duplicate of FOIA No. S-1A]

MEXI-6453 (IN 36017), 9 October 1963. [FOIA No. 5-1A]

Transcript of telephone call on 27 September 1963,
Soviet Embassy Chancery (15-61-55).

Informal Memorandum dated 10 February 1977; Subject:

Background on Mexican Station Support Assets
(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies).

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET REPRODUCTION
_ _Pniaet IBITED

50. a ney Me aieerh et ee er or ee Sul ubje
te enter.
51.

as REPRODUCTION”
PROGISITED

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED | atl


13-00000

_ REPRODUCTIC

SU"JECT: Yelay insending the first cable about
OSWALD

1. Much has been written about the dela (by, the Mexico
Station) ins ending the first cable requesting traces on the
name Lee OSWALD. It was discussed in Dave Phillips book as a
case of laziness on the part of the Soviet case officer (which
in wy view was unjust and unnecessary and indicates that Dave
didn't know what he was’ talking about).

2. Normally, the Spanish transcript for the 1 October
convers ation would have been picked up on the morning-of. ‘the
2nd of October. ‘he Russian language portion would-have\gone
to the Russian/English transcriber on the 3rd of-Ottober. ‘he
trans lation would have been returned the follawW day (4th)
at which time, the Soviet case officer would haves ked for
the photographic coverage. ‘That coverage’wuld not have been
in the station before the 7th since the fiJm was still in the
camera on the 3rd of October and ies ‘picked up probably on
the 4th, processed and pased ‘tation on the next work
day which would have been M

3. Later the film was en out of the camera every day
but at that time, the film stayed in the camera until a full
Totl was completed which might take three or four das.

4. A name trace could have been requested on the bas is
of the name alone but that wasn't the wy Win Scott ran that
Station. He wanted the photographic coverage tied in with the
telephone coverage ..s ometimes.there_was a U.S. automobile
license number. It was also part of the “numbers game" of
jus tify ing a project ly the number of dis patches, cables or
Teports produced.

Geov1s1

REPRODUCTION — sn
PaTTED

=



= REPRODUCTION
PROLIBITED

> ” (
( SECRET : e3 Ee ee
‘ hey EY:
2 May 1977
SUBJECT: Review of Mexico City Station Files
at the Warrenton Recerd's Center
oo
1, On 2 May 1977 Chris Hopkins and AnniegG@Sipe

visited the Warrenton Record's Center to Ral giNexico
City files in search of additional pho Of the

"unidentified man". We were unabl;
photographs. It appears that evi)
been destroyed in a purge of a
that the folders for
forward more recent pi
for retention. Follo
and pertinent notatio

graphs may have

See use of the old folders:

Job_#70-236 Box 1 of 3

BILYRIC Photos LICALLA Negatives j

1 February - 1 March 1968 In white letter-sized |
in re-used folder, envelopes - five |
LILYRIC 1 Aug. 1966 to 31 Aug 66) packages C-1873 - 2031 i

1 March - 1 April 1968
Baek Sordes peated LILYRIC : |

folder 1 Sept 66 - 31 Oct 66.

Front folder re-used LILYRIC
folder 2 Dec 63 - 28 Feb 64

D. eae 1968

rr Te ‘LILYRIC ANCA S
folder 2 Mar 64 thru 29 May 64 6006152

Front folder re-used LILYRIC : —_

folder 1 Nov thru 15 Dec 66
cate wes

Copy 20°F 7 seme = SEGRET

REPRODUCTION =
PROMIBITED O-016y



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

& 2: ¢

3 pee - 3 June 1968
Te-ust (LYRIC folder

16 Dec 1866 thru Jan 1967

Front flap re-used Linyric. folder
18 Nov 1964 thru 26 Feb 1965 |

3 June - 1 July 1968
eee )

back flap”one Side re-used
Czech photos July 64 § Aug 64

back flap-other side re-used
LIMITED 11 May 66 thru 31 July 66

1 July 68 - 31 July 1968
back flap ve-used LICALLA aq

7 May 64 - 27 July 64

Front flap re-use

16 May 61 - 16 i
File # 50-

Job_#70-236 Box 2 of 3

LILYRIC Photos

Back flap 3 Apr 67 - 2 May 67
filed in re-us older LIMITED
16 May 61 - 18 July 61

File # 50-6-74/5

Front flap re-used LILYRIC April 67

Back flap 2 May 67 - 1 June 67
re-used LICAILA folder Dee > Jan 67 6000153 a

Front flap clean

SEGHET a

REPRODUCTION
PROIBITED


13-00000

Eom

l-June - 3 July 1967.
Clean folder -_

3 July - 31 July 1967

Back flap Te-used LILYRIC folder
July - Aug 64

Front flap clean

1 on -4
ean ler

67

4 Sept, ark October 1967 os

2 Oct - 31 ae

1 Nov - 22 Dec 67
Back Flap rewused Fecused LILYRIC folder
12 Apr 66 - 18 May 66

Front flap re-used
chrono folder 1-31 Jan 65

9 Jan - 31 Jan 68
Front Flap re-used LILYRIC folder
1 July thru 31 July 1966

Back flap ~ clean
Job #70-236 Box 3 of 3
LICALLA Photos

2 Jan - 27 Feb A367
aioe folder

SECRET

‘ap re-us
5 Nov 62: - 31 Jan 6

EPRODUCTION
PRORISITED

incoming cable

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

a

~ 6000154

Continued 3



13-00000 ~

REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Dec 66 - 15 Feb 67

1 War = 28 April 1967 |
folder |

‘ap Te7
1 Feb - 29 June 63

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
20 Feb - 31 May 1967
te

4 2 May 67 — 30 June 67 ‘
{ 23 5% ftay Feces UID © folder aur Me |

ris

30 Nov 63 (¥-1308)

3 July - 30 967
‘ap re- folder

19 Sept 63 (C-1351) to

30 Nov 63 (C-1414)

Front flap LICALLA re-used folder
1 June thru 30 June 1967

1 Sept = 27 Oct 1967
Back flap clean
7 Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Aug - 31 Ang 1967.
6 Nov - 29 Dec 1967
ap clean

front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1. July - 31 July.1967

»
3 Jan = 28 Feb 1968 0000155

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 July thru:31 August 1966

Back flap Czech photos re-used folder
Sept - Nov 64

~ SECRET Contimied +

~ REPREOUETION
PROSISITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITE

« —e q

1 March thru 28. il 1968
Front flap re-u: (c)
28 Nov 61 to 10 Feb 62 !
Back flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Apr to 1 July 1966

2 May thru 19 June 1968
ap re-ust SYRIC folder (Y-907 to Y-969)
12 Sept 6 61 - 23 Mar 1962

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder i
1 Jan thru 31 Mar 1966

. There was no coverage from 19 =e 1968
front flap
23 Nov to ‘Yi

ee #72-626/36

Box #5
Contained nothing prior to 1967. Looking for 1963.

Job_#70-209
. Box #3 (Boxes 1§2 at Hgs)
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #4
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #5
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box. #6
Nothing pertinent to our search. Ce00156

Box #7
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #8 :
Nothing P°ttinent to’ our search

SEGRET Continued Ss

REPRODUCTION
PROAIBITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

« -_— €

Box #9
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #10
Nothing pertinent to our ” Search.

Box #11
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #12
Nothing pertinent to our search,

HPS ns gS |
LILYRIC aoe LICALLA

ce "2s gs ci
Aug

July § 70 i
70 Sept § Oct
70 Nov § 70

Dec 70

Dispatch HMMT 11,368, dated 17 March 1972. Photos were filed in
re-used subject and "P" folders (equivalent of subject 201 folders),
indicating contents of * "original" subject and "P" files were
destroyed.

Ref (to previous shipment ) HMMA 40,562, 21 May 71.

CcGl157

° SEGHET

Ee)

EPRODUCTION
PROAIBITED


13-00000

R

. REPRODUCTION
PROWISITED

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. Unilateral Coverage: 7

From the time the Mexico Station was opened in April 1947 untit
the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station in 1955, the Station had
developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTIC! Apres of multi ine
phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobi ge team and a
mail intercept operation. ie

Telephone taps (LI yg Naced by an employee of the local
telephone company wi Soe by a Station case officer. The hunber
of lines tapped hy only by the availability of a listening post

nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

: Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-

American recruited agents.
Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer

+ assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. . These
operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site.directly opposite the: Soviet ‘Em-
bassy (across the. street) which’ had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. ~The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

Cc

0000158

faa ball
BY 004645
REPBETICONSTRE Ones

EPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED



13-00000

oR

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned
street on. the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).
LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental
basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-
tion received word that the photograph of the “unidentified man" was
being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-
graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building
on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site bi oe middle of

the block south. It had a planted view of Ae te of the Soviet
Embassy. LICALLA, the third photogra, RX as located in one of a

row of four houses on the sou ci Re Soviet Embassy compound.
This site overlooked the SS of the Soviet Embassy compound. The
purpose of this over SBS S to get good identification photographs of
Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-
cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother
and Mexican father (deceased). This agent’ collected the film from the
LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de-
veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was
originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-
nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited. agent. :

0000159

2

=
ae,
stilt

PRODUCTION ==
PROHIBITED



13-00000

_ REPRODUCTION
PROIBITED

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.
These two officers organized a surveillance team of six- recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes.
The Station also conducted a unilateral =: operation, |

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American ¥
Mexican agent, who had a sentria gag tained selected letters Hy

from a subagent employed by the. wr system.

2. Liaison Coverage }
Liaison =~, unreliable and insecure as characterized by |

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction

A recruited

of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaison, was a hip-
pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This-Ministry
was principally occupied with political investigations: and control of
foreigners. Their agents were wieAEZEdy, and corrupt. A Station
officer trained a number of them in name tracing and travel contro. In
1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

| REPRODUCTION :
| PROWIERTED


13-00000

| B

REPRODUCTION
PROIIBITED

LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines
connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican
Army officers. In 1961, because of mismanagement by the Mexican prin-
cipals, the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A
Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening
post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
an American technician inside the listening post.
3. Oswald Coverage: :
In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the

Joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the | ergy listening
post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cubj Re Saeelite En
bassies in anticipation of possible wake Sie ion immediately

disconnected al] of the unilateral,

taps on these Embassies so
that they would not be disc .
taps. The Mexicans aC ExFter connected five Cuban lines, five
Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,

full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

6000164

EPRODUCTION
PRONIBITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

tr a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location
for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transTa-
tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations
usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-
self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the
Station started screening all photographs. However, here agaén, there .

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up @ week

but those picked up were usually for dates a fey

so

ste
technician who was processing the film, gift of W'night-tine basis.

Before since the

film was used. Later this

Further, photographs were not. mad. aor until a complete roll of
oy and the operator cleared the camera

at the end of. each day re ss of amount of unused film remaining.
The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with
foreign license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-
ficulties. ;

Oswald came to the attention of the listening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet Tine... It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

‘6000162

coo

REPRODUCTION =

PROMIBIMED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
— PROHIBITED

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.
There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the
photographs with the typed transcript. Al] transcripts were made in
either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only

these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

ay 7
scot

~ 6000163

REPRODUCTION 7
PROXIBITED


REPRODUCTION
»ARDRET

{SECRET + -

10 Feb 77
Source: totes made by A. Goodpesture
for John Leader, IG Steff

Subject: Background on isxico Station Support Assets
(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Enbassies)

1. Unilateral coverege. From the time the Nexico Station was opened in
April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until arrival of Win Scott as COS in 1958, Charles
Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to
exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)
consisted of milti line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance
team and a mail intercept operation.

a. Fhone taps were placed by an ompcyee (of the telephone company

who was handled by David WILSTED (pseudo). The number of lines
‘ ~~
tapped wes linited by availability of a listening post nearby

(since the taps were not made in the main Girithal Jend English/

> era
Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, etc) ,tganscribers. Generally

these agents (nostlans ‘or Mexican American) were related
2

(which th, is eee tine felt was good security in thet
Af they Med about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Anderson with the help
of Harry Mahoney (retired, living in Chicago) end TDY TSD
people checking the best type of camera, film, and concealment
devices. These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LIMITED, LILYRIC,
and LICALIA). LIMITED was a fixed site bang opposite across
the street from the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy which had
both a vehicle’ and foot entrance. The Soviet gate ‘was on the

Northest corner.of their compound and LIMITED was diagonally

across a double barrelled street on the South Bors oe
Seep cence SERRE

uwobiel  Polisa

i
t
wd


13-00000

R

that block. ch ated strictly on an

inentel besis in the esrly stages, I
one storey

this property (2/Sranish Colonial stone house) through LIHOUSIIE (check to

e Mexi Station bought

be sure), Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word thet the choto of "uniden san! released to the
public by the Warren Conmission. The photo operators were moved to another apt
nearby. The property vas sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSINE
for a long term lease on the top floor of 2 new apartment blding to be built
on this site). LILYRIC was planned es an alternate photo base to LIMITED.

Tt was in an upper storey (3rd floor ~check) on the sane side of the street

as LIMITED but in the middle of the block South, It had a slentéd view of

the front gate of the Soviet Habassy, . The agents in LIMITED and LILYRIC (both

Vexican families) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LILYRIG was a rented apartaent. LICALLA, the third phots site,\ vas located
Po ieee ee

in one of a row of four houses on the South si¥fe.bf the Soviet Exbassy compound
Bie

hich the Hexteo Stetion rurckasedyf& bout 1958 (check date), also using
ve

3
thes

LIMOUSINE as the parchege MMaiedd ‘This site overlooked the back garden of
the Soviet Enbassy comput. * The purpose of this operation wes to get good
identification photographs of the Soviet rersonnel (uho at thet time vere larg:
unidentified in Mexico Station records), Tke three photo’ sites vere handled by
Remon Alvarez (Mexican citizen of U.S. nother vho taught eleentary level at
the American School). Ramon collected the film epkkeutienieebwan@ttm from LIMITED
and LILYRIC three tines'e week. His sister's husband, Carlos (i!exican doctor)
developed and printed the film into 8x10 contact print strips. The master plan
was for’ LICALLA film to ve processed faside TSD nan from 1957 to 1959 (Harper
Holt - resigned) could not handle the volume end as’ the unprocessed fil’ began
to accumlate, the inside GO (iahoney) becanie disgusted and took the film out

for Ramon's brothsr—in-law to process (probatly early 1959). Thus Ramon becane

the handler for all’ three photo hases. A sensitive staff D monitoring operation

EGRET

EPRODUCTION
PROGMBIMED

“REPRODUCTION
~_ PROMIBIED



13-00000

‘ REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

-> - SECRET,

was run out of another ohe of these houses (crypt for the four houses was

LIS

IST/1, ote), This was hardled by Glen JIDDEY (outside TSD officer) and
Vahoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This opsration ves also separate

from LISALLA, Te two houses in between were rented to unsusrecting tenants.

ce, Mobile surveillance ves developed by Anderson and later placed
winder Mahoney and Joseph Sancho, This tean consisted of a half
dozen or so agents who used three to four late model cars end a
panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo covera'e).
The plan was to activate this group by radio (from LIMITED 3ASE)
when soneone of interest left the/Esbascy gate and stay with then
until they nade their meetings. These agents knew about the LIITED
BASE bedause they had LIMITED photos for identification purposes.

This worked fairly well until about the middle of 1958 (check date)

when one of the surveillance agents got ae slo:

te his terget and

vas arrested by the Mexican transit goth ad \edined over. to the
run ©) oe
Mexican Secret Service, ae time “the Station could arrange through

en

a cleared atto: Nad ja? out (Judd Austin of the Goodrich,

Little and Rig tm), the agent. had identified Sancho (who wes
evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside—
phone ‘number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis Alt
Puckett), As a result of this flap, the LIFZAT project vas broken |
up into. several others.’ The agents vere not changed but vere given — |
new crypts. peace and Peggy Naggard replaced Andersén in handling
the unilateral phoas taps. Puckett replaced Mahoney and handled the =|

surveillance team (LIEITRAF). and the photo bases throgh Remon.

ad. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) mail

tercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, The agent

xican) had

a semi official- status end arranged to obtain selected letters from

: 0000166

EROOUCTION = woe
PROWIBITED : c



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROWIBITED —

,
47%

stal system (I think at the airsort}. His case officers

vere lster/Puckett, Rovert Feldmann, end Alan White.

2. Liaison coverage was unreliable ard insecure as characterized by the nature

of the ©:

xiean services at thet tine. The Mexican DFS (Direction of Federal
Security) with vhich ve dealt vas s hip pocket sroup run out of the iinistry

Of Gov:rnnent. This itinistry spent a major part of its tine on control of
foreigners and yolitical investigations. Their agents were vicious, venal,
corrupt extortionists, Robert Mclberg established contact with one of them ange
Levine De Leon (later LIFIRE group) in about 1950 or 51. He gave them some
training (a group of about five surveillance types) in travel control working

the airport.as well as file searches of names from DFS Eqtrs eaere the files

were poorly organized and often inaccurate, Now and 4 bos ses soze useful

information vas developed but it could not we upon, Helberg was
replaced by Phil Roettinger. (rostgngarss ieosiced 3 in Mexico), Nahoney, Thomas

Hazlitt, and Robert Foldnamti Ge yf fl Elie )

During 1958, Werbeott net socially sone of the chronies of the

Mexican President elect, Adolfo Lopez Mateos. During this period, the U.S.
Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F, Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to “fight cormunisn". One of these seeds

grew into a proposal Miguel Aleman (jr, son of forner lexi President), acting
for Lopez Mateos, made to Win Scott for a joint telephone tep operetion. This
project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a shakedown,

The Mexican in-control (LISLEGANT). was inexperienced, old, and greedy. His

son (LIESVOY-2) vas a masterpiece of deceit and corruption. LIZLEGAIT also
nanipuleted control over the principal agent of LIBIGHT mail intercept. The
first case officer was-Alfonso Spera inside with Turner Smith (retired) outside
and Jokn (ISD treining officer for surveillance afd head of the listening

post where thirty télerhone lines would connect as well es a transcription rooa

iisserar

0000167

EPRODUCTION

PROGIBIMED _ Ib


13-00000

wR

“REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

staffed «

San arny officers.)
demand nade by the Mexicans. Both Smith end John hed lenguege difficulties and
personal protlems associated with being outside the stction so thet the Mexicans
were virtually uncentrollavle, spendi ¢ money as they pleased, squirrelling away
equipment ct enornous costs, and neglecting their part of the bargain in the
production of transcripts or placing taps which we wanted. Szera was replaced

by Jack Brady vho found himself in the same pincer movement of having Scott
approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady had turned down by the son, LIBIVOY-2.
Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there wes little to show for it,

the project was revamped. Smith and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced
by 2 TSD officer, Charles Flick, who wes put inside the Listening post to naintain

Brady was reassigned to other duties rendirg e,trensfer.
the equipnent./ Scott took over the project as case offices ‘taeting with LIELEGANT.
AS :

Ee designated Ann Goodpasture to meet dailing with oe routine supervision

of the listening post, picking up trensqrfpts.and teres. Goodpasture hed no

dealingewith the Yexicans except Scott ves ill or out of tom. Generally,
‘*

all decisions were made ober This was about late 1961.-
3. Yy nenory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Eubassy but I
think the staff first developed from a pro-Castro group celebrating on New
Years eve 1959. As I recall, it vas a nakeshift arrangerent of volunteers
through most of 1960 and 61 with Tom Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on
their activities and recruitirg agents right and left anong Cuban netionals in
Mexico City.

4. Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in Mexico during
the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the
Warren Comission. To detersine who ves there and what they were doing I

kave grouped persons tozether chronologically with areas of their assignment

as the
covering from 1950 to 1969 so that Sfuekker names vop up, one can tell what

ue
Period they were in Mexico end their essignments at the tine.

SECRET, |

EPRODUCTION |
PRONIGITED = aes :



13-00000

bo . REPRODUCTION
| “POT

8/56-6/69 COS Winston 4. Scott (deceased)

i pees 7/56 - 7/58 iguez (retired) |
i 10/58 - 12/62 (retired)
6/63 - 9/65 KrENW retired) —

! . 10/65.- 1969 Stanley Watson (retired in Mexico)

i COVERT ACTION .
Prior to 1954 Howard Hunt (retired)

12/54 - 7/58 Williard Hill (resigned)

12/56 - 9/61 Stennard Short. (retired)

Chief H

9/61 - 3/64, David Phillips C/(retired)—- =;
152 - feu ae |
2/04 - 6/65 “Janes Flannery 0/(retired) —
9/64 - 11/66 Harold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967 Jatson G/(retired)
66 - 6
68 - 7. Joseph SmithC(retired in Mexico)

CUBA OPERATICUS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Chief

2/60 - 4/62 Jack Stewart (retired Costa Rigs
4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief —
9/63 - 7/65 Ray Swider — :
10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Mackay (te
8/63 - 6/65 David Phill

9/65 ~ 10/68 Joseph Pice

10/65 - 12/67 Peggy Mages

SOVIET TARGET : ;
6/57 ~ 10/59 Louise Lyon (mtmed} 6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps) |
9/59- 8/65 Herbert Ianell Chief- (retired 2) i
9/59 - 8/65 Barbsra Manell — Outside co

5/64 - 7/66 Yillian Bright
4/65 - 11/67 Cynthia Fausmann
6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger
7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

:
SOVIET TPANSCRIBERS i
6/56 - 8/58 Morris Gordon (resigned) |
6/58.- 6/63 George itisko — H
6/63 - 70° Boris Térasoff (retired in Mexico) ~ |

|

| SECRET,

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED



13-00000

SUPFORT ASSETS.
Unilateral phono taps

1949 ~ 1961 Charles Anderson III Chief 49-71 7 Outside CO
4/55 - 4/60 Peggy Kaggord Asst ILSTFD (ps)
4/56 - 1/62 Frenk Estancona Chicf in Mexico: ”
2/60 - 10/64 Thomaz Keenan —

9/64, ~ 12/67 Hickael Farmer

Unilateral photo Cubans

6/59 - 4/64 Robert Zambernardi (resigned Kexico)
7/59 - 6/62 Richard Syathar TSD (retired)

Unilateral photo Soviets

3/54 - 4/59 Harry T. Mahoney
(retired Chicago)
5/57 - 8/64 A. Goodpasture (alternate 00 —
and internal routing)
6/58 - 6/63_Louis D. Puckett (retired) ors .
6/63 - 1of6X Thais Keone eben t Hast

65 - 66 William Bright gatiee
; im Bright sa ‘4 oe
=
Liaison phone taps

1959 - 1969 Winston Scott (deceased)

1959 - 1960 Alfonso Spera (retired)

1959 - 1960 Turner Smith (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960 John (Training rept resigned)

1960- 1961 John Brady (retired)

1962 - 1968 A. Gcodpasture --

1961 - 1971 Charles. Flick (outside TSD Staff Agent - retired) —

Ly2ison ~ surveillance

Prior 1954 Robert Melberg (retired)

3/54 - 4/59 Harry Mahoney (retired)
‘59 - 1961 Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldmann

TSD Outside unit

4/58 ~ 12/63 Glen Yidden (retired) —
6/59 4/64 © Soseph i. Rescigno. (ps) Unit blown and closed dwn

) REPRODUCTION
PROSIEITED

REPHODUCTICN
PRORIGITED

56 ~ 68 oxtatti scent
Cavigned in Mexico)

0000170



13-00000

; "REPRODUCTION
-—-PRORPTTED

SECRET
cet

NY outside Mexi rept asked

About nid 1962 (check date) L:
for the telephone nunvers of the Soviet, Cuben, and Satellite Embassies.
With this forewarning, LIFEAT (unilateral coverage) ves disconnected. Kowever,
as I recall, the Mexicans connected 5 Cutan lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,
2 Polish,’and 1 Yugoslev line. The basekouse listening post had a live
monitor wxo mede short summaries of interesting conversations for a daily i
resume which was received each day around 8 a.n. (passed by Flick to Goodrasture
to get to Scott before 9 a.m.) Later (when the reel was completely recorded)
full transcripts were typed and passed to the station in the same vay, however,
there was usually a time lag of a day or so. “Those transcripts which hdd
Russien or another lenguage besides Ssenish or English went out of the listening
hd, reel)vas

ed

‘ey were trensleted

post the day after the transcript (of other conversations .etf

typed. These reels were taken to another locatjamih

and typed. In the case of the Russien. pnd itd; Boris Tarasoff usually ren
x

ay 3
about a week behind the date aerate gave sation because of the volume of :
eta

Russian conversations. amg@ng*{he~Sembers of the Soviet Exbassy. During this

period (fall of 1963).the reels were probably being brought into the station
and carried to Boris by one of the people from the Soviet Section or they nay
have been carried to him by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave a
it to Herbert Manell to take to Boris. Herbert Manell and his wife Berbera
hendled ell of the processi:.g of Soviet transcripts. Hy job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned thet the man calling hinself Oswald was [

probably an Anerican. However, here again there was a backlag because the
photos were picked up three tines a week but the ones picxed up were usually

for dates a few days prefiously because the doctor processed the film on a

night tine basis. Photogrephs were made usually until one roll vas used but
later we got it changed to one day coverage on each roll ~ in other words the

bi
operetors cleared the

ra each day whether there was anyn%iimxoxgs a full

roll of film exposed. Instructions were to cover office hours, ‘photograph éach

REPROOUCTION ene
‘PROHIBITED os



13-00000

| “REPRODUCTION
| | ———-PRORIBITED

 (SEORET

new Soviet and fanily, all foreigners end foreign licenee plates, Funan
error did occur but generally the egents were conscientious. The Cuban
enbessy coverege had more sopkisticeted equipaent (a pulse cavera) Lut it
frequently develosed mechanicel difficulties. Bob Zeabarnerdi end Spather
(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna i‘ackay screened
the film inside the station.

I am certain thet the Oswald call came to our attention from the
Soviet line. It was picked ug and taken to Boris for a translation because
the caller was trying to speak Russian. Any delay was caused by waiting to
compare the photographs with the typed transcript. There were no copies of
trenseripts every made in languages other than Spanish or pglish because Win

Scott covld reed only thoce tvo languages ard he oh ireened the
<a

transcripts for operational leads he went

wet

age”
ee .

0000172

_SEcRE it

REPRODUCTION 7
PRowisnren a


13-00000

SPPeaoHe ray
7 PTE

PROBED


((, TUBSDAY 1th OCTOBER 1963
Covergge: 900 to 1900

Log Film 144
20 Eaxp

Weather 1/100

4 1251 2URM platican con KAZ en el jardin

2°neen enn

312139 ANOV
4nenn wenn
1150 UMM
1205 LEON
eonnenne

1216 UMM
ohh
aa 10" oon

Www nw

oer aw

igen een
14 1248 VAZQUEZ
Beer nanen
16 1259 TIPO
THURSDAY 3 October
171200 UMW

18 1204 UMW
ig" enna
20 1213 UMM

21 1222 UMM

TEKH OSE

—reradéerioy
 PROSIBITED

BHEHEM EHR BEHRENS BH
WEDNESDAY 2 OCTOBER 1963

“dn ‘de Sur por Tacubaya de.

nn

out UMW a Norte por Tacubaya-Despide DEN-en Chev

Camera Setting 3,5-2.5'

”
RHEE IE RPE BIEN RIES CRE SH BRIE SHUN BE BEL SI LEAN SEEAHEN,
Coverage: 900 to 1900

375

ee ee ee

out a Norte por Tacubaya en Ford37 verde(entr51141)

‘in’ 2URM de Oriente por Chicontepec de Falcon

of
cy

ae
zy

in de Sur por Tagybays . -
Nien MSIL CF

nue
ee
out a Nort’ por Tacubaya
ed
nnn

‘out a Norte-por Tacubaya

Penn enna eee

out a Norte por Tacubaya de Chev (entré 1218)
1963 a

in de Norte por Tacubaya
out a Norte por Tacubaya en Taxi
sone nen eee

in de Sur por Tacubaya

out a Sur por Tacubaya

SEGHET

Doverage: 900 to 1900

71033 DF

372

paces one ne

ore Chev(sali61218). 52137 DF

D 167
BNE

8882 DF

vee

D ous


13-00000

R

27 September _1!

REPRODUCTION
 pROE

963, Sovict Embassy Chancery 15-61-55

Item 295, page 3
At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet Embassy Chancery

to the
DURAN if

Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia DURAN. He asks
the american has been there.

DURAN: Yes, he is still here.

SOVIET:

SOVIET:

DURAN: .

SOVIET:
DURAN:
SOVIET:

According to the letters that he showed them from the (Soviet)
Consulate in Washington, he wants to go to the USSR to stay
a long time with his wife who is Russian, but also the
answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.
That accordingly these transactions take 4 or 5 months but
without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request
and even then, they could not issue the visa hene (in Mexico
City) without asking Washington. Yet accordingly * this man
(the American) » 7 Showed him a letter in which he*(the
American) is a member of an crganizatigh' dm.favor of Cuba
and said that the Qubans could not ‘int ‘the visa without
the Russian visa and now the Geyfiet “doesn't know what to do
with him, because he co bx r°the answer from

nw
oo

Washington. ayy hy

with them also, begaajia'2i—p ‘problem with hin (the Anerican)

thinking of sing his visa, because he knew it was
going to take w'long time waiting for the Russian visa in
Cuba, and then go on to the USSR.

..that the thing is that if his (the American) wife were

now in Washington (and) going to receive the visa right now
or the permission from the USSR to return to her country, (if)
she is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having
this visa, she can communicate to whatever place, this
permission, for example, here or in any other place (he) can
Teceive it, but right now they do not have them.

.certainly and neither can (the Cubans) give him a letter
because they do not know if the visa will be approved.

They can only give the visa according to instructions.

Then that is what she will put on his application.

Neither can I give him any letter of recommendation because

I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

is that he doesn WSériyone in Cuba and in that case it
is very “ih ve him a visa, because he was

DURAN: It was no bother, thank you very much.

TRKHose

Copy 2oF 7

PROGIBIMED

mors SECRET

SRGHET i

EPRODUCTION

0-61154


13-00000

R

es REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITE

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Consulate 15-60-55

+ Item 395, pages 7 and 8

Item 74, page 2

An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet Embassy
Consulate at 1037 hours and asks for the Consul. He is told that
the Consul is not there. The unidentified man asked what is needed
to get visas to go to Odessa. He is told to call back at 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

At 1235 hours a man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) from inside the
Soviet Embassy Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial
America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the
telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN ROMAN.
ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Embassy and they need to
know what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa, that the
Soviets will also need copies of the passenger manifest...

(One concludes that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN are shipping: fepfesentatives
for the boat “KALONIA", and needed routine visa infonnation.\’ First

a call was made to the first listing for the Soyiet. Embassy in the
Mexican telephone directory (which turned out=to ‘be the Military Attache).
They got the phone number for the Consulate andthe address. After
making a call to the Consulate and learning that it would not be open
until 1130 hours, ALATRISTE went, s@thé.address to get the needed
information.)

" eS
Just after 1600 hours, ‘the Soviet Consulate received a call from the
Cuban Consulate (Sylvia DURAN) who said she had there a U.S. citizen
who had requested a transit visa to Cuba because he is going to the
USSR. DURAN wants to know with whom he spoke at the Soviet Embassy
because she sent him over to them telling him that if the Soviets
approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything
more, advising the (Department of) Immigration in Cuba. She wants
to know with whom he spoke because he says that he doesn't know
either with what person and who told him that certainly there would
be no problem.’ The Soviet asks DURAN to wait a minute. After a
short wait DURAN explains the same thing to another Soviet. This
Soviet tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her name and
someone will return the call. DURAN gives her name and telephone
number 11-28-47 then says as a personal thing, she has moved and

has not advised them of a change of address so will not receive their
Bulletin and can give it to them now. The Soviet asks her to call
KOUKHARENKO in order.to change that address and asks for the name

of the (Cuban) Cultural Attache. DURAN says it is Teresa PROENZA
whose number is 14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her.

6006176

ja

EPRODUCTION
PROWIBIMED


13-00000

©. + DIRECTOR

SOM + MEXICO CITY

sevions WH &
spo 2 Cl, C1/OPS, CI/IC 2, Fl, SR 7, RF, VR
x

SF GR ET goxma3z |

MIR CITE|MEXI 6453

LeTMPROVE

1. ACC LIENVOY 1 OCT 63, AMERICAN MALE WHO SPOKE SRTKEN RUSSIAN

sal HIS Nav

E OSMALN (PHONETIC), STATED HE AT, SOVEMR ON oR
~~ —

crPT WHEN SPOKE WITH CONSUL WHOM HE SELIEVED 2 ILERTY VLADIMIDOVICH

‘ERED, IF THEPE
ANYTHING NEM RE TELEGRAM TO “ASHINGTON. OSYEDKOY UPON CHECY

vesT Tov, SU®J ASKED SOV GUARD IVAN ORYEDKOV WHO AN:
—===..

NOTHING RECEIVED YET, BUT REQUEST HaD PFEN SENT. ey

a,
>. HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS RE AMERICAN ENTERIC ‘SOVEMR [016
o>.

“OURS, LEAVING 1999 ON f OCT. APPARENT age’ \THELTIC BUILD,

S1PC4 6 FEET, REAEDING HAIRLINE

18D SORT SHIRT. SOURSE LER

3. NO LOCAL DISSE,

SLOP: MORE KHAKIS

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW i
lconpucTED oF !

Di R0O-S-HF I Saas

SECRET

a os3t ,

Q a p*
Dogument wurer LA

RicEDIA Review on APR 1878

pliniewmnbes

D-onss~

REPRODUCTION | SECRET .



13-

‘90000
ae wt

lL - REPRODUCTION

onle.: LADILLINGER
EXT CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
pals) Commas Chronos... SECRET FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

(Sov Contacts 5o-Ga10-

ae
: i Beene eas Tniriacs | ora, ae
¢ i ROUTINE | Cr noua INITIALS

“To om INFO. CITE Mext

WHOM HE BELIEVED BE VALERIY VLADIMIROVICH KOSTIKOV, SUBJ ASKED Soy”

RIARD IVAN OBYECKOV WHO ANSWERED, IF THERE ANYTHING NEW RE TELEGRAM TO
WASHINGTGH.. CRY=DROV UPCN CHECKING SAID NOTHING RECEIVED YET, BUT REQUEST

HAD BEEN SEND. NN
2. save rues woe spare we neszean peter ooran 2216 wows,

“BUILD, CIRCA 6 FEST, RECEDING
SA a

LEAVING 1222 ON 1 OCT. APPARENT AGE 25, 85
EAIRLINE, BALDING TOP, WORE KHAKIS, SPOR! SHIRT, SOURCE: LIRMPTY..
3. NO LOCAL DISSEM. et
RAY

; DUP OF
: a 5-15
H
gy OVemnaled- Vou,

LADEN tea @) .
f wite ob ers wa ZOORDINATING OFFICERS.

WEL S

q ex aseerteariOn RELEASING OFFICER

re OUTGOING
. panera onsen

ENED

0000178

PRODUCTION 7
PRONIBTTED



13-00000

wie Mg, BUSTOS:jpm
ONT: . HH/3/Mexico ONixX li, SECRET
ers 5940 1 NO INOEX

AE: 10 Oot 1963 CO FILE IN CS FILE NO,

“10+ upgrco rrr es enpy.. POs 22.282

FROM: DIRECTOR

cONFIWH 8 vie
- . on
‘InfO'tappP, Cl, CI/oPS, C\/SP,' Fl, SR 7, RF, VR.

xx

a

omen y4830-

1., “LEB OSWALD WHO\CALLED SOVEMB 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL
oat HENRY, SETALD, (201280248) BORN 18 OCT 1939, NEW ORLEANS,

LOUISIANA, -¥¢ FORMER: ‘PADAR. OPERATOR, IN UNITED STATES MARINES
;MHO DEFECTED TO. USS2 IN.OCT 1959, oomMD 18 1t8 TEN te
INCHES, “ONE HUNDRED, SIXTY, FIVE, POUNDS, aged Suomi WAVY HAZR, :

POSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN. “WHICH SUBJ INDICATED
HE DESIRED RETURN OF: HIS PPT AS, WISHED TO RETURN TO USA
(F "WE COULD COME 70 SOME AGREEMENT: Neahemment! THE DROPPING
|} \OF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS: AGAINST. UE: ox 8 8 JULY. ON HIS OWN
INITIATIVE. HE APPEARED AT’ THE EMB. WITH} 1s. ‘WIE_TO SEE ABOUT

+ QOJ= sq a0e

HIS RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT. HE ACTUALLY HAD NEVER

(0 ek63

Nd 40}

stun yuounee
Fy

96 yay BPMN VI
J

APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATION AT

thee COORDINATING OFFICERS (CONTINUED) «.. q
BELEAgiNe orricen AUTHENTICATING” E
SECRET’ Orrices -
Ss REPRODUCTION 8 BY. OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. +. Copy No.”
< CS COPY,

comer, RP ae Semuasiey ES

REPRODUCTION

“PROHIBITED



13-90000

_ . » REPRODUCTI
PROTIBITE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IND “SECRET
NO INoex L—— 2
= DIKE IN CS FILE NOL ipo

Soo ‘Sentetzea Fue RAY eg ee

7, Nonber 5
HOM? DIRECTOR . For sterile copy ‘of this documents

cone: +

INFO i

ie

Serw3:

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING” ‘oui or

haetoete
APPLICATION, Acconpine oo) on NO REF 1

CITIZENSHIP, OSWALD ‘svg HAD BEEN. EMPLOYED ‘SINCE

13 JAN 1960 IN : panto. AND TV FACTORY -IN MINSK
“ WHERE WORXED AS UET. WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP.’ OSWALD WAS
MARRIED ON 30 APRIL 1961 TO MARINA “NIKOLAEVNA PUSAROVA ye

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17. UY, 1942 USSR. < NO ‘apgs maces.
oe % loos

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW 'SO“SHE

COULD APPEAR AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW. HIS AMERICAN PPT . 7 be
WAS RETURNED TO HIM, US EMS MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS. .
OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD, 7 ; :
3, LATEST HDQS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED' MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND =
BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE
HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

‘TO USA. a (cour > (G000180 ~

COORDINATING OFFICERS

eae
PROKISTTED

AUTHENTICATING
offices

i
OFFICE PROHISITED, Coy ta
i



Pog omc | RARER

ia |= PRORIEES-

NO INDEX
Jo + pm :

C1 FILE IN_CS FILE NO.

FROM: DIRECTOR

cone; ‘ - |__| oererneo “AE
ROUTINE
“INFO + -
PAGE THREE .

10 os “NFO cre or 7TYUB3O

4... STATION SHOULD PASS INFO REF AND PARA ONE TO =
TPELIDE, ODENYY, ODOATH, AND ODURGE LOCALLY. INFO PARAS,
TWO a THASE ORIGINATES WITH opacrp.

4 an American uate ‘who
@ his name Lee Oswald -
‘at Sov Emb on 28 Sept. when
He discussed sending a telegrax
0. Aocal.. Dissemination had bven bade.

ae

SSINSS

8 wH/cops__/
‘ADDP +, __COORDINATING OFFICERS
AELEASING OFFIEER : =
an SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY. OTHER THAN.THE-ISSUING

REPRODUCTION “

“PROKIBITED



13-00000 -
Ttvaassie Oi cor MED MOMUETON
[ ROUTING AND RECORD sHEEr UWS

pee PROMIBITED

SECRET
TRIENSON | NO. =

[2.74230 = sus
e OCT LL 1963

TE ain alt TK are

fund #29
fo
tata,

fom 610 “meee” ] “SECRET CONFIDENTIAL TAAL] UNCLASSIFIED >

6000182 }



13-00000

_ REPRODUCTION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

. oe PROHIBITED
info: SECRET File: y
, CLASSIFICATION Be a

? PRIORITY ae CERT TR
¢ OPERATIONAL | IFAC
pa? IMMEDIATE, PO 1022292 e
CITE,
7 ii)
le EE OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVEMB 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL Ye dd

LEE HENRY OSWALD (201-289248) BORN 18 OCT 1939, NEW ORLEANS
f sLOWI STANA, “FORMER *RADAR~ “OPERATOR aTN ENGTED ohn MARINES 2
WHO DEFECTED“TO-USSR -IN OCT 1959, OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN i”

INCHES, ONE HUNDRED’ SIXTY FIVE. Pou!
BLUE EVES. Vi INDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAIR,

waa

2e ON 31 OCT 1959 HE. ATTEMPT! ———————
STATES CITIZENSHIP-To—Ete ww ern S 70, RENOUNCE Hh y >
INDICATING HE HAD APPLIED“FOR“SOVIET CITIZENSHIP. ON } £ WECnee
THE US EMB MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD .- . ‘ .

POSTMARKED MINSK-ON FIVE _FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATEDR>*\ bue
“HE DESIRED«RETURN ‘OF-HIS-US-PPT AS WISHED~TO RETURN TO- USR fWE
COULD” COME“TO“SOME AGREEMENT “CONCERNING;- THES DROPPINGS fee”
OF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME.” @ JULYZON: RES: ‘OuN
-INITIATIVE HE. APPEARED AT“ THE EMB WITH HIS, WIF: SEE ABOUT HIS
RETURN TO. STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACTUARLY SH. HH NEVER. APPLIED
FOR..SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT.HIS APEC N ar

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN UssR AND ‘TEMPORARY EXTENSION

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCO! REQUESTe THIS
APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO OSWALD; NED NO REF TO SOV
CITIZENSHIP ."-"OSWALD “STATED. ‘H&D’ BEEN’ EMPLOYED’ SINCE:

El

os i lee
13 JAN 1960. IN BELORUSSIAN o AND TV FACTORY IN MINSK sD Wi? oF
WHERE WORKED AS “METAL WORKER SN RESEARCH SHOP. OSWALD WAS or
MARRIED ON 50-APRIL 1961 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17 JULY 1941 USSR» NO HDQS TRACES. I 2,

HE ATTEMPTED-ARRANGE FOR WIFE-TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE
COULD APPEAR-AT..EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW. HIS AMERICAN PPT
ea RETURNED TO-HIM. © US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS
REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING
EFFECT ON OSWALD.
3. LATEST.HDQS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1962
| SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND
BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE
Be GIVEN APPROVAL -FOR THEIR TRAVEL | WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD
USA.

sta STATION SHOULD PASS INEQ-REE AND-PABAONETO |”
TPELIDE,. ODENVY, ODOATH y AND ODURGE LOCALLY. ¥ ARAS

T#O AND THREE ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.
(CONT PAGE«TWO)

os §

SoSH

6000183

RgPROBUCTION
PROKIBITED os



13-00000

Ponce

a é * REPRODUCT

f HW
pa : CLASSIFIED MESSAGE PROHIBIT i

one |
I] ] ccveanea a - =
ro . INFO CITE

PAGE TWO DIR 74830--IN 5945 ar oe

“-"S5e “REF “AND" POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED
TO HDQS OF ODENVY, ODACID, ODOATH, AND ODURGE. PLS KEEP

HDQS ADVISED-ON-ANY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION
OF OSWALD.

CS eee

etaséirication.

INCOMING

—

7 00084

REPRODUCTION |
PROMISITED 7 ae



TO DiRector

FROM HZXICO CITY
action, wi 8

Seay |

INFO. ADP, CI, Ci/ops, Ct/sP, FI, sr ‘Ts RF, VR

XX. (qu run ag 15 Nov" . —_
ANS
SE‘ RET 1517302 . : -

a! ie
SP CTE MEXT 6534
LaTverove +

U5 er63 40357
FCF DIR 74939 *
*LS POUCH PHOTO OswaLp,

SECRET oe

: , Fi
C/S COMMENT: *ATTEMPTS OF LEE OSWALD” AND WIFE TO REENTER US.

|

0000185

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.
‘oy 1.6 APR 1996
cument ‘Numbi * | [eBnwroer oar SCzzEE| 220
a ae n per 878 , EScIMPBET Ct. BY.
yy : p-ousg
Dao s ey Lai 299.248
[S Qet é7

ISSUING OFFICE 1S pRoHIaTED Copy Now.
a aaa



13-00000
a eiEES

oa " REPaORNCTION

Tea CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: PREHIBITED }
‘STR: —-Commo; Chrono; SECRET FILE: :
( -Ieenenry” Oavate. CLASSIFICATION

(ew P") -
[| __ pererreo priority |" | aes
\ |) GPERATIONAL | wirracs |
ox _ ROUTINE IMMEDIATE.
9 DR INFO, CHE MEXI = 6R26 |
swoRaE
LOIMFROVE

“REP DIR 74850

PLS POUCH PHOTO OSWALD.

COORDINATING OFFICERS
GPGESTETNER: SECRET WCCURTIS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
OUTGOING

: ven PER cet

0000186

{Der

| REPRADUETION | ;
PROHIBITED oe



PENORADL FOR : the A “i
Ba0M + Winston 4. Seost
I

fe > SAE / Ces: test with Sha Soviet apbsssy
*Anmbessader etalk y CES ITEP

L. The following informiion wos received. fraa a veunlly reliable ani |
extremely senaittve somes: On 1 Cotoser 1965, on Smericam mile comtected —
the Soviet ibkussy and ideniifted himself as Lee OSHARD. This officer de
termined thet OSNALD bad bem at the Soviet asasey cn 28 Veptesber 1563 and £
bad talked with Valeriy Viadietrtveck ZCSTIXOV, 9 member of the Conmilar
Gection, in order to loam if the Soviet Ecbozsy hed recelved a raply fren
Baaikinston comemtns bis request. We have no clarifying inzormaticn with
regard to this request.

2. Cnr deodquarters hea informed us that the OSWALD.above ia probably
identical with Lee-Zemy OSWALD, torn on 18 October 195% in Rev Orleans,
Loutaisna, a former rear operator in the U. S. Yemtte:Corpa who defected
to the Sovies Exton in cetober 1959. Peas"

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
conoucten oni § APK

Eda 2iMPDET CL BY_2izz OP

ESOT

Lee Henry OSWALD Pp

HcSeowvssh Legal Attache YX -/IF

Finison with Naval Attache

Docut

A Review on mgr oy . IG oct 62

[RECORD COPY | gol 9 2eti

for FOL

nenorandun to Legal Attache on. &

Netoher 1963; however, note. memorandum

to US Arbassador (dated 16 October)

also included Legal Attache in distri-

i i bution.

oe 0000187
- REPROOUCTION | nea
PROAIBITED ee



13-00000

enon MEXICO CLIT” FS COPY,

<aer if destruct ton
Actignt: C/WH 5 toy ISSUED TO DCI, 1810 22, NOV BP_ ~~ Note! jone and © petite

? KOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1800, 22 Nov Sr] sone ate H
INFO; BCL, Ayal pop, anoP, C/Cl, C/FI 2, c/sR 5, /sas 5, 0/0S 2, VR

XX.

SECRET 2222292

IMMEDIATE DIR(CITE MEXI 7914

As. YMEXI 6453 (v3 Gol7 ds

B. }DIR 74836

coauext 6s3a (1 YOSS 7)
1. ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD AT STATION reganatys

PRESIDENT KENNEDY ASSASSINATION, ONE LEE H. OSWALD’ AGE "24

HAS BEEN ARRESTED IN DALLAS POSSIBLY In coNngct roy ‘ASSASSINATICN
OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

2. DIRECT H@S ATTENTION ,RE*:

3. REQUEST PRIORIT THAT STATION

CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIEi pty COVERAGE FOR IDEN, FCRYARDING
SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT WHO COULD
EE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD.

SECRET

a Sto So RA Nev e3

«Bor Fe FOIA Review on APR 1976

"ROHL all pape Ome



ons: C.F.GESTETNER * ‘ pion

STR: COMMO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE:

GE

KX CHRONO (DUMMY)

THiTiacs

DEFERRED PRIORITY **

TO

OPERATIONA\
OIRIMEDIATE

THITIALS

ROUTINE

gun

IMMEDIATE DIR+ INFO,

RYBAT

REF iy

seb MEXE 64537777 ~
“Be DIR 74830
C. MEXI 6534

OF, PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

2. DIRECT HOS ATTENTION TERR

3. REGUEST. PRIORITY,
: ete Dy
TY COVERAGE FOR IDE!

PHOTO: ‘OSWALD SO

BE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD,

END OF MSG

COORDINATING OFFICERS.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SIFICATION

CUTGOING

ogre ae

Cité MEX

THAT STATION

IN. FORWARDING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000189

be

I
i
|



Jeun a. whitter ios
c/w 3° a INotx

: 5613 No incex t-
22 November 1963 (1 Fite IN C5 FILE NO.

30) MEXICO CITY 19/4
FROM: DIRECTOR
consi. CAWH 5

pop, aoe cic, c/Fi eS ve 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2, VR

0EC 4
vA

ROUTINE

Hiro

cneoR BAR O2

7 ee COORDINATING OFFICERS - uf -
RELEASING OFFICER 5 : tomat
aaa mao ‘orricen
: Lae :
REPRODUCTION BY OTH THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. *

' REPRODUCTION |
PROHIBITED 0-0



Coe

‘ “ REPRODUCTION

oisTR:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ROMIBITED
© ACTION: pate: [Fah iS

ahs SECRET FILE:
CLASSIFICATION

~ TITIALS bre INCOMING 1
DEFERRED PRIORITY |
| OPFRATIONAL, | INITIALS:
ROURNE _kexkxvmeoiate | pwo | gx 2293407. 6663 i
. INFO CITE

To
IMMEDIATE, MEXI co DIR-B4809———
RYBAT = - ,

ORER MEXT-TQna' 77"
1» THANKS. THIS: CONNECTION WAS ALSO NOTED HERE. od
2. TRUST YOU WILL BE ABLE USE ALL YOUR. FACILITIES TO FOLLOW AND
BEPORT SOVIET EMBASSY ACTIVITY AND, REACTION DURING THES# Yours.

INCOMING.

' REPRODUCTION _ |

PROAISITED ae :



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

‘[TO’ —« DIRECTOR
‘|rROM MEXICO CITY ; gs ooPy
acon. Wi 8 (MR WHITTEN, We & NIGHT SECURITY OFFICER NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT

3 2015, 22 NOV BP!
|mwo pci, /Dci} DOP, ADDP, cI, ci/ors, ci/ic 2, fl, SR 7, SAS 8, OS 2; VR

SECRET 230953Z :

IWEDIATE DIR CITE/text tary  2al- avy

REF? MEXI 7214/10) GO 76) oe
1, MEXI STATION Has PHOTOS SAKE. atin AMERICAN

TYPE wHO Is PosstaLFoswato 5 sara ‘pina  caneat ON 15

OCTOBER. SEARCHING FoR es pHoto- “DOCUMENTED ENTRY.
CuBAN EMBASSY OTHER Days .

2... ALSO ATTEMPTING ESTABLISH OSWALD ENTRY” AND cee ae
-MEXI. 7 Peat ;

SECRET

C/S Comment: ‘Request priority pouch: photo Oswald so that Station can chisek att
recent coverage for identity. Forwarding soonest copies of only visitor to SovEmb.

28 Oct, who could be identicsi with Oswald. i

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
conpucren onl_6 APR 1976}

7. eucy

i Di a06-S-4/ ae
eS B02y.
¥ Document LN 19 8 COPY

bor FOIA Review on pPR 86

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED


13-00000

C. _CLaASsiFiED_ MESSAGE

orc: JOHN M, WHITTEN

7 ROUTING
uNT : C/WH/3 Dr INoex Zo SECRET T a
an ee eee im :
DATE: 22 NOY. 63 U1 FILE IN CS FILE NO. ; 4
TO + MEXICO CITY Sopp Hoy 2 81 36263
FROM: DIRECTOR ! : 23 Nev 63 |
a : - . BD peeeeetoS ECT.
ROUTINE

wro: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, Cl, C1/oPS, CI/IC 2, Fl, SR 7, SAS 8, =>
0s 2, VR

a DE ad 2 de ae 2a Nev & a3 Ne OO 848

RE MEXT 7019 {IN 66846) *
SEND STAFFER WITH ALL PHOTOS OSWALD TO HQS. NEXT .

AVAILABLE FLIGHT. CALL MR. WHITTEN AT 652-6827 ARRIVAL.

$1 \
Document Number 3-'3

for FOIA Review op = APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
——— 16 APR 197%

Dizte B= oy] zSmpoet o& evoraaee| QWGiEAITAYE
ABNevES

W 4a ¢SD°900 os op

JCHN M. WHITTEN by direction be

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE-IS PROHIBITED. Copy No. -

AUTHENTICATING j
FFICER

0000193

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED 0-02524

“4


13-00000

pws, BIRCH O'NEAL
uur: C/SU/SIG
wr: $367

‘TO + MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR

cone: CI/St

itro :DCi, D/oCi, DOP, sooe((e ci/ops, CI/IC 2, Fl, SR 7, WH 7,
yx 08 2 VR ‘

ro IMMEDIATE MEX INFO

REF: MEXI 6453 (IN 36017)*

5 pe rd

ossingy Pes tar TO: SUBJECT REF, : ;
Wr gta BoE :

NECESSARY, . FULL TRANSCRIPTS AND ORIGINAL casi) -

ere REVIEW
APR

CONDUCTED

EASDIMPDET Cb BY.OL2=O8

cs Comment:, “aReported that on 1 October 63, an American male who said
hia name was-Lee Oowald, was at ee poyeee ree in Mexico City.”

2oj- AFT AY /
_—

thr Pe, .  ASNGVES

a. tS copy
. THR Wars

folwa : EGRET
..

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Copy No

COORDINATING OFFICERS

H/3
AUTHENTICATIRG.
OFFIC

0000194

=)

REPROBUCTI 0-025
PROXIBITED eae



Saat

‘ * REPRODUCTIC:

mae CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ve ERO Pre.
ACTION: “

2 : TRIFIACS TOFS TREGHING HOTUER
a CEFERREO PRIORITY
BF) eae OPERATIONAL | NITIATS en
i] [_kovrme yommeoiate | pun ee
ue INFO CITE,
IMMEDIATE MEXI DIR-gygge

REF s Wats et 6453

. “TMPORTANT” “You REVIEW ALL. LIENVOY- TAPES. AND TRANSCRIPTS i
SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL MATERIAL POSSIBLY PERTINENT ~ f
TO SUBJECT: REF. SES ath “ £

“20 DISPATCH SOONEST BY. SPECIAL COURIER, STAFFER IF

CHRONO DUMMY : - ow
23/1801Z. - SECRET

cus:

INCOMING

6000195

|
{
{



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
- PROKIBITED...

CONF ‘i -

eal 3 ROUTINE »
WFO: DCI, D/OCI, DOP, AODP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/oS 2, E
x vR =
TO

eine INFO . . _. CITE DIR 8 4 3 88

SENT TO

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
oni 1.6 APR 1975)

6S poppy

DORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
OFFICER

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Now,

0000196

REPRODUCTION
__PROMEITED



: , é CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

{ . SECRET
Oo + DIRECTOR
OM 4 jeer . ‘8 Ory
.CTION: 5 (MR. WHITTEN, WH, NOTIFIED AND COPY. SLOTTED AT 1255 34 NOV 63 Léa)
“wos DCI, D/och, op, ADDP, C/cl, C/Fi 2, c/sR5, C/SAS 5, OA 2, VR®

Pious vn eer ss > — 263067 1 08

HIMEDIATE DIR” CITE) MEXI 7023 :
= ”. C/S COMMENTS ae APPLICABLE TO RYBAT

LIENVOY_ . CABLES. aoe

1. ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA/}DURAN CUBAN EI CALLED SOV .

CONSUL SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB AND WISH
SPEAK WITH CONSUL. UNIDEN NORTHANERICAN TOLD SOV CONSUL QUOTE

9 azLonqnoo!

tbe:

WO}ISSVT:

"I waS IN YOUR ENB AND SPOKE TO-YOUR CONSUL. I WAS JUST NOW AT
YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOK MY ADDRESS.” SOV CONSUL SAYS "I KNOW THAT".
“ UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPEAKS RUSSIAN "I DID NOT KNOW IT THEN.

"1 WENT TO THE CUBAN EMB TO ASK THEM FOR HY, ADDRESS BECAUSE,

HAVE IT”, SOV CONSUL “WHY DONT YoU COME AGAIN 10. j
ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM CUBAN, wat Gabe oy
NORTHAMERICAN "WELL, I*LL BE TH Rie, ev.” MONITOR NOTES
UNIDEN NORTHAMER ICAN SPOKE Yee eon RECOGNIZABLE

; » RUSSIAN,
2. IN VIE ALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON 1 ‘OCT
WALD 3 1

‘WGIATY ROW

9U6L Yay 9

5 ¥ 4

MO{AOY VIO 409 SS PET SAG WO AROEWIG #73

WEEE.

i '
LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMS 28 SEP, SUBJECT PARA ONE PROBABLY

OSWALD. STAT LON UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE ERASED PRIOR

RECEIPT SECOND CALL. (ae ce7e/)
3. PARA THREE MEXI 7614 DATE SHOULD BE ONE ocr 63. SANE -

SUSJECT VISITED SOVEMB4 OCT BUF NOT RECORDER Lienvor THaT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS. - 2or-25TAYF
Dy: . i 6

NAKING EVERY EFFORT petinGte osva.s activities wand a 6S

SECRET BES]

rat i
i

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

\ Qe" yay [Ho
Sps-a io quawnoeg

=

REPRODUCTI
~ PROGIBITED



13-00000

ORIG.:

\R.B, RIGGS

SISTR: = GOMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

© pepaonuenion

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE = pate: PROWIBITED

FILE: ©3593 >

ECRE'
CLASSIFICATION Silvia DURAN P-

R-
Tmiviacs | Bra. Nowpea

le

i DEFERRED PRIORITY a

He OPERATIONAL | buriaca

UH ROUTINE bck IMMEDIATE _

TO - IMMEDIATE DIR INFO.

LIENVOY

1, ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA DURAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SOV CONSUL

SAYING NORTHAMERICAN

SPEAK WITH CONSUL, UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN TOLD SO\
QUOTE: "I'WAS IN-YCUR EMB ‘AND SPOKE ‘TO YOUR cond was

. JUST NOW AT YOUR EMB AND THEY 7008

DID NOT KNOW IT THEN,

“ MY ADDRESS BECAUSE

COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM.

CUBAN EMB," UNIDEN NO!

» SAYS#1 KNOW THAT." UNIDEN NORA. < SPEAKS RUSSIAN "I

OME sazx1 -9834,——
DUP a!
4B-SAG

THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB AND WISH

CONSUL

ROBES. " SOV CONSUL

if ANS CUBAN EMB TO ASK. THEM FoR
Bee

HAVE IT." SOV CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU

RTHAMERICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

RIGHT AWAY," MONITOR NOTES UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPOKE

TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOG!

NIZABLE RUSSIAN,

2. IN VIEW OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON

LOCT LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28 SEP, SUBJECT PARA ONE

PROBABLY OSWALD, STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS'FIRST TAPE

EAS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER:

ee ces

Ene =:

4

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000198

pegerervnerer sag



ea)

:  REPRODUCTIC:

i
| Onis:
1

ots CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pate: PROHIBITED
DISTR: , SECRET FILE: 5
Page 2. CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED PRIORITY weiriaca | oFe, PT
ROUTINE Ces WiTIALS

To INFO, : CITE

wanes

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL,

REPEAT ONE
3. “PARA THREE MEXL.701¢ SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECT

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE,
ied rR EE ih Uist

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS,

ee

2 Loaieaarticd ee EFFORT pare ne OSWALDS ACTIVITIES

COORDINATING OFFICERS,

RBR, SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION

a2 : 0000199

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED



; . . wr {
4, t CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ~
. SECRET

DOC. MICRO. SER” |
DEC 4 1974
MICROFILMED

TO 4 DIRECTOR

C3 COPY;

FROM 4 MEXICO CIT
ACTION: c/sR 5, (vA. WHITTEN, WH AND MR. BAGLEY, ‘SR NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1605
2:

3 NOV 63 Wa) _
'NFO 4 DCI, D/DC1, DOP, ADDP, . c/cifops, ¢/Fi, C/wH 2, D/oS 2, VR |
. { “7"""" RECORDS OFFICER STAMP *: L

SECRET 2319112

‘allowing, 4s
IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7024 authorized:
evBRF REDWOOD LCIMPROVE
Signed: :

REF A- DIR 84837 *
. R.O. #1 - Unit Cail
B. DIR 84885 * ——
Wote: If res +  eite

C. DIR s4gs6 * reasons and cooréinate
4f appropriate...
1. PARA 1 A REF A, STATION'S. IMMEDIATE AND MOST Lut
Garis inpteates No ern OST IKOV. TRAV
“uiinze REPORTING 6 THRU 19 NOV SHONS Ra SOV EMB EVERY
1
DAY. (NO LILYRIC REPORTING 9-19. Nov.> WILL GET REPORTING
~ EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE. XO see 22 Nov. PLACING HI
2
UNDER LIEMBRACE SURVEILE
2. PARA 2B REF A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVENS_PER SONNE
. CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
ACTIVITIES 17. NOV TO DATE. lconoucten on_6 APR 1976
3. WILL SATISFY. ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS aghAempoer cy eyo/a2og
4. REF 8, IMMEDIATE AND- PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS NO OTHER
ALFERIEV TRAVEL. Lininie REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV AT SOVEMB 6
THRU 19 NOV. (NO Livvrte COVERAGE.9~10 AND 16-17 NOV.> .
5. COVERING ALFERIEV ACTIVITIES SANE AS ITH KOSTIKOV.” WILL

MOST RECENT

sequiny juownaocy,

cD

aus way 02 7008 Vio #4

¥e

FLACE HIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP. Rb/- aad

Di 2d00-S-44 gab 68 20PU; Bee aa

K
SECRET .
{e}

Prol- 308052.

alone yeaa eB aoe

REPRODUCTION p-02538
* PROGIBITED ere



‘af BEPHOOUETIO
ROTTED

AND CUBAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE, HOWEVER, STATION STAFF

ihe
AC icaenaed &
A SES BBL

_ 6+ OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S conncer rol,

COMPING ALL AVAILABLE MATERIALS.

7. STEPPING UP RECEIPT ALL INCOMING MATERIALS COVERING SOVEMS,
TRYING CET LIFEaT COVERAGE OF SWITCHBOARD OF APT BUILDING WHERE
RESIDE WIN KAZANTSEV, SUSPECT KG3 RESIDENT KONSTANTINOV AND SUSPECT
GRU SHCKUCHKIN. HAVING Lipaws REPORT MOVEMENTS SIDOROV AND.

bray

MAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST sID.. INCOMING LIFEAT ON
KGB KUZNETSOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP.

8. PROBABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY. TAPES ERASED, —
HOUEVER RECHECKING ALL-UNERASED TAPES LIENVOY CENTER, SEP CASLE
PROVIDES VERBATIM TRANSCRIPTS.

SECRET. . ee A

Kostikov.

. et
: c/s COMMENT: *Requested information concerning recente

m

aa at

REPRODUCTION | Bi
PROHIBITED - 7



OISTR

= @aK G.F.GESTETNER
2 DATE: A

uy

* REPRODUCTIC!

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

COMMOW- SECRET fies PBST
RONO (DUMMY). ROSTIKOV P-

ALFERIEV P-

To

. > DEFINITIVE cuecK INDICATES NO OTHER KOSTIKOV pee ee

a os Hamers
PRIORITY
[OPERATIONAL |~ wiriaco |
IMMEDIATE _
73¢
a
IMMEDIATE DIR INFO, CHE MEX -yoase
RYBAT REDWOOD LCIMPROVE a :
| 7 bP om 80-24)
REF: A. DIR 84837 7
B. DIR 84885

G. DIR 84886:

PARA es REF. Ae STATION'S IMMEDIATE, AND'MOST LIKELY

manN
MEXI,.. MOST RECENT LILYRIC REPORTING 6 maaan 31

KOSTIKOV AT SOV EMB EVERY DAY, a see ‘PORTING 9-10
rs
‘AND 16-17 NOV,) WILL GET RERQERING: ey THIS AFTERNOON RE

KOSTIKOV ACTIVITIES 22 es sya HIM UNDER LIEMBRACE
SURVEILLANCE,

2. PARA 2B REF A. NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVEMB
PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES [7 NOV TO DATE,

3, WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS ASAP,

4, REF B, IMMEDIATE AND PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS

NO OTHER ALFERIEV TRAVEL, LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV
AT SOVEMB 6 THRU 19 NOV._.(NO, LI RIG, GQYERAGE 9-10 AND 16-17 NOV.)

. SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0200202

REPRODUCTION .
PROHIBITED



ane

. * REPRODUCTIC!

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: PROHIBITED
: SECRET FILE: .
Page 2. CLASSIFICATION

a DEFERRED phony | Se om _—
i ROUTINE OPERATIONAL [ata
to INFO, . CITE

rts

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL,

. REPEAT ONE
3. PARA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECT.

VISITED SOVEMB 4.0CT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE,
a

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

Sein ita

MAKING EVERY EFFORT DETERMINE OSWALDS ACTIVITIES
ay : a HREcoRS

COORDINATING OFFICERS.

RBR
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER.

wcc
RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED



13-00000

TO + DIRECTOR cs cop;

DEC4 wr4
FROM « rest MICROFILMED
ACTION: c(i 5. (HR WHITTEN, WH, = Rona SR, AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED

‘NO ‘ey Scores ATs 1

INFO + pc}, D/OCi, DOP, ADDP, fete one. 3) ¢/sR Pablo PLe Ae

SECRET 2320342
IMMEDIATE DIR

1.” FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE. reasons ant "
if appropriate.

2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 Lrewvoy REPORTED FOL: “ENTRADA MF oe :

CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN SU CONSULADO ESTA uw

NORTEAMERICANO QUE .ESTUVO ALLI EN LA EMBAJADADA RUSA. HD QUE

-ESPERE UN MOMENTO. MF ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA INGL!
PERSONA FUERA Y COMENTA EN ESPANOL QUE LA PU A GELEr avo A
Sav ANE DIGE SOBRE, EL

APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL 14 12, 9
“CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANG ¥ Ce) ue uapLaR. HF HABLA RUSO. 5 :
HD LE HABLA EN INGLES.” ae DURAN ASKS: NORTHAMERICAN "DO YoU a
SPEAK RUSSIAN?” “THEN WHY DONT- YOU TALK TO HIM?” NORTHAMERICAN 2 é.
TAKES PHONE AND SAYS IN BORKEN RUSSIAN “I VAS IN YOUR ENBASSY AND”
SPOKE TO YUOR CONSUL. “JUST A MINUTE.” MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS es

g

NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN: .
“PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN”. SOVIET: “WHAT ELSE DO. YOU WANT?” NORTH=
AMERICAN: -"I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY TOOK MY

ADDRESS.” SOVIET: “I KNOW THAT.” NORTHAMERICAN: “I DID NOT KNOW

Diaso =S=¢ | ts D0 299242

ols! Wo7Lo {Py 23 Nev G3
550 -__ SECRET eS
ie REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED Copy No.

REPRODUCTION |
PROKIBITED so ON



13-00000.

aters t
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IT THEN. I WENT TO THE CUBAN Ea

» i AEPRODUETIO

- BECAUSE THEY HAVE IT,” SOVIET: "WHY DONT YOU COME AGAI
YOUR ADDRESS WITH US, IT IS NOT FAR. FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY.”

NORTHANERIGAN: "WELL I°LL-BE THERE RIGHT AWAY.” DOUGLAS J.
FEINGLASS NOTED NGRTHANERICAN SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE
” RUSS EAN. :

3. ON ONE OCTOBER 1963 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET EMB AND §,

“HELLO THIS IS, (7 EO LO.SPEAKING. I Was AT YOUR PLACE LAST
SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID THAT THEY'D

SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND OUT IF You HAVE
ANYTHING NEW? BUT I DONT RENENBER THE NANE OF THAT CONSUL.”
SOVIET (ENBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): “KOSTIKOV: ‘HE IS DARK.”

“40: "YES. MY NAME IS OSWALD.” SOVIET: “JUST A MINUTE ‘I'LL

FIND OUT, THEY SAY THAT THEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED ANYTHING seHN)

Os “HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?” SOVIET: “YES THA Wd

REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING aS aly ziti as YET.”
42 “AND WHAT..2" SOVIET. eee we

4. DOUGLAS Je } Ferstavase’ WE = RANSCRIPTIONS SAYS OSWALD Is

pone ON
IDENTICAL WITH PERSON Para ONE ‘SPE AKING BROKEN RUSSIAN WHO CALLED
{ SS see T

FROM CUBAN EMBASSY 2:

SECRET aa
GS Gervnent: *Requested Station review all LIENVOY (1) tapes and transe >
siece 27 Sept. to lovate pertinent information on Oswald.

EPTEMBER TO SOVIET EMBASSY.

0000205 |

«REPRODUCTION
~— PROHIBITED



13-00000

ei

“104 ic - pepwoowertion
oni ae CLASSIFIED MESSAGE part, PROGIBI IBIVED

* 23 NOVEMBER 1963

meCpansgs>
Silvia DURAN P-

MISTR: COMMO
CHRONO (DUMMY)

KOSTIKOV P=
= a a puMpEn
OPERATIONAL | wna
ROUTINE bes “aweDiaTE | i
:
' t
TO IMMEDIATE DIR INFO. CHE mex =2025,——— =
_ RYBAT LIENVOY = oo +e
DUP CO GO-TO |
REF; DIR 84886 . :

1, FOLLOWING FULL. TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE,

2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIENVOY REPORTED FOL: "ENTRADA
“MF DEL CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN SU CONSULADO *
ESTA UN NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVO ALLIEN LA EMBAT ADA

yak
RUSA, “UD QUE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. MF_ES Benue Y HABLA

INGLES CON ALGUNA Pessoa ren 460) NTA EN ESPANOL QUE

LA PUSIERON TELEFON'

iO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL

141299, SILVIA LE. DICE SOBRE EL CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO Y

SILVIA DURAN ASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU SPEAK RUSSIAN?" THEN
“WHY DONT YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN TAKES PHONE AND
SAYS IN BROKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND SPOKE TO YOUR

CONSUL."" MAN IN SOV EMB "JUST A MINUTE," MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS

QUE LES VA A HABLAR, HF HABLA RUSO, HD LE HABLA EN INGLES," }
|
ke

NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN: |
"ex COORDINATING OFFICERS 13

SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

SpE

0800206



7 i)

- t REPRODUCTIO

pris. :
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: PROMIBITED

MSTR SECRET FILE: :

PAGE 2. CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED PRIORITY poner ess eee

a IV OPERATIONAL | wiracs |

ROUTINE IsAMEDIATE __

Lio) INFO.

THEM FOR.MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THEY HAVEIT." SOVIET: "WHY ©...

“PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN",

NORTHAMERICAN:

TOOK MY ADDRESS," SOVIET:

one ia

SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?"
"I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY

“IK KNOW THAT." NORTHAMERICAN:

"I DID NOT KNOW IT THEN, I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK

_ DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US, IT IS NOT

FAR FROM. THE CUBAN EMBASSY,"
. THB
THERE RIGHT AWAY." DOUGLAS J. saci spines NORTHAMERICAN

~ SPOKE TERRIBLE HARD;

3. ON ONE OCTOB:

ecg tte

NORTHAMERIGAN

RUSSIAN.

1963 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET

EMB AND SAID "HELLO THIS IS LEE OSWALD SPEAKING, I WAS AT YOUR

PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID

THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND

OUT IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING NEW? BUT IDONT REMEMBER THE NAME

OF THAT CONSUL," SOVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV:

HE IS DARK," MO: "YES,

MY NAME IS OSWALD," SOVIET: “JUST A

MINUTE I'LL FIND OUT. THRYSA¥.RHAMCEHEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

RB

PRODUCTION
~ PROHIBITED

SECRET.
CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0300207



| ( REPRODUCTIO:
“ cuss suse ove PROIIBITED

FILE:

NUMBER

INFO, one JZOLe

hole |

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

ANYTHING YET, MO: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES
THEY SAY THAT A REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS
BEEN RECEIVED AS YET." MO: "AND WHAT,,7" SOVIET HANGS UP,

4, DOUGLAS I,.FEINGLASS WHO DID TRANSCRIPTIONS SAYS

_ OSWALD ae IDENTICAL WITH PERSON PARA ONE SPEAKING BROKEN

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTIESHING OFFICER CLASSE ERIN RELEASISG@EFICER
OUTGOING

0000208

, RESON
PROMBITED



13-00000 : 7 i

ASSIFIED MESS,

i oy

SECRET

Z
oO

GEC 4 1974
_MICROFILMED

TO. 1 DIRECTOR

63 copy

ACTION: C/WH 5.(4R. WHITTEN, WH MR. BAGLEY, SR a ‘NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED AND
COPY SLOTTED ATs1700 23 NOV WB)
‘NFO + pci, D/OCI, ODP, ADDP, ip) c/Fi 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/0S 2, VR

FROM + MEXICO CITY

of
SECRET 2329452

; —~
IMMEDIATE DIR-CITE NEXI 7028

oe ; ‘N 23 llores 87 £87
REF mExt 7025 (var C7 / PT J* —

1 \
1. COS HAD URGENT CaLL To SEE LITENSOR 23 Nov.

. i
2. COS THOUGHT WOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION CONDOLENCE.

QER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED
°

THAT LIENVOY HAO LOCATED CALL TO SOVIET EWBASSY OF LEE OSWALD
MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER. ;
3. BELIEVE FACT THAT LITENSOR AWARE oF FR: Ganrsct CFROM OUR
JOINT OPERATION) “AND PasseD oatacr®\Go¥ir THPoRTANT.
SECRET yg . a
CS Comment: *ForwardedQy view of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

RECORDS OFF1.2R STAMP
ror is J

The fotlowins
authorized: 7 Gavae

6 90 13CaNI—y

MSIAGU NOILVOIsISSVI9

SEFETA

ate.

- _ OS eopy, ee ds (ASV INE.
D, Webs YE 7 i 261-289.2
pant tir SSA as eve

‘a for FOIA Review on

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

H
5
j
i

2

PRONISITED p45



13-00000

-

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED
0 “UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL

Cogan FBR __ Cera seer

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

a]

EXTENSION

ACTION COPY

TO: (Officer designation, room number, ond DATE
building) -——

eras
~ Stor = ( :
ma op oF) = G
x 4

0000210

Sor 610 “Ete [] SECRET. CONFIDENTIAL ea |
|

- REPRODUCTION
) PROMETED

UNCLASSIFIED



( REPRODUGT!

COMMO : SECRET FILE: @=8S93>
CHRONO (DUMMY) eee eeroN LiTENSOR P

S

PRIORITY.

ATIONAL [~ wariacs
Ike inindeDIATE

[. Taiviacs | B¥a, NuMaEe

- rod__
DEFERRED
ROUTINE

TO IMMEDIATE DIR Unie

KAPOK

REF: MEXI-7025

1, COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SEE LITENSOR 23 NOV.
2. COS THOUGHT WOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION

. CONDOLENCE OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED THAT « ~~

LIENVOY 2 HAD LOCATED CALL TO SOVIET EMBASSY OF

MADE ON 28. SEPTEMBER,

3. BELIEVE FACT THAT T LERNER J AWARE’ OF THIS CONTACT
a ‘

(FROM OUR JOINT open iG. AND P PASSED DATA TO COS IS IMPORTANT,

END OF MSG

ING OFFICERS.

7 SECRET w.c.c,
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

\



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

Fi C CLASSIFIED MESSAGE C

if
pec4 14
MICROFILMED

‘Os DIRECTOR

oS 2034)

ROM + MEXICO CI

ACTION: c/w 5. (MR WHITTEN, WH AND 0S NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1715 23 NOY WB) :
NFO + pct, D/0C!, DDP, ADDP, i C/Fl 2, c/s 5, C/sas 5, D/os.2,- yr

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP ~

SECRET 232048;

IMMEDIATE DIR(CITE MEXI “7029 ons
Ra
er A. DIR 84888 re astarma?

. or on <i, cite a one 2
Be NEXT 7025 (10 67/09) 4» Feasons and coordinate: 2 . |

Af appropriate. 4
be... SAW PHOTOS OF LEE OSWALD ON TELEVISION NIGHT. oF 32, how ain IT

DALLAS. DATES ARE AS GIVEN ON Pay Beg, Be -
2 MEXI STATION REVIEWING Aka PAOCABLE PHOTOS PERSONS ENTERING
“DVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES. . a ;

3. MEXI SUGGESTING TO LITENPO 2 THAT SILVIA DURAN WHO ©-  - | -
“YEXICAN ENPLOYEE AT CUBAN. EMBASSY AND WHO PUT LEE oswaALD ON b
TELEPHONE FROM CUBAN EMBASSY TO TALK TO SOVIET EMBASSY ON 28 SEPT :
BE ARRESTED IMMEDIATELY AND HELD INCOMMUNICADO UNTIL SHE GIVES ~
ALL DETAILS OF OSWALD KNOWN TO HER. (SEE REF BD .

a LITEMPS 2 CAN SAY D.F.S. COVERAGE REVEALED CALL TO HIM IF HE
CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

NEEDS: . 5°
DS TO EXPALIN. conoueren.cnt 8 APR 97
“Gs Comments: *Photos sent from Mexico City were not those OF Lee-Oswand
#**Forwarded a review of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.
a ot et 2 ug
LI eycy® 7 ~
ie Bey ie 23 Mou6S
Document Number, ==4 4A bry,

“or FOIA Review on APR 1976 SECRET tate] i
. REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION 000012
eee |


xx ___The fata: en tae Aa 7

othe
pec 4 WF a

TO DIRECTOR umes |p

. MICROF f

FROM + MEXICO CI COPY,

ACTION: §—C/WH 5(WH AND OS NOTIFIED COPY SLOTTED 1930 23 NOV BP)

INFO + DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP/2/Ci, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, eBLSAS,5 420498. os. “ene

Wi Fars mg 7
oa 292

OO. #1 = Unit CAPS

Note: If destruction, cite -

reasens and coordinate
REF MEX 7025 (@~ E7/ oT)» 4£ appropriate.

Le “FOL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIEAVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY OSWALD;

FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF-WOMAN OUTSINE; HF-MAN OUTSIDE;
_ MD-WOMAN INSIDE; HD-MAN INSIDE, .
A. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 635 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT “ENTRADA. HOMBRE

LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO SACER UNA VISA PARA IR A ODESA.

‘MGIASY NOLLVOIISSYIO

HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LLAME AL 15 69 55 Y QUE PIDA AL CONSUL. HOMBRE!
FUERA: PIDE LA DIRECCION. HOMBRE DENTRO: SE LA PROPORGERNA. ”
B. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 65 CALL TO SOV CONSULAT.

gequiny quewngs4

ss

MF DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA Wecsivivano AMERICANO =
QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA Pag : DNinisi PORQUE VA PARA
LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIEI tes QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PORQUE
ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS Teo EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS

pS:

LE HACIAN 0 ACEPTASAN LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUSANOS TAMBIEN oe
SE LA DABAN SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A EWIGRACION EN CUBA Y
QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABE TAMPOCO CON

QUE PERSONS Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA PROBLEWA, HD

Di use: SH¥/ gp ao! 1st 4S

FAG 2Neu6)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Sn SARA ae get

eS

SISO a LAG EE A eee

: -
f ee sae

0000213

DePRaauCTiOR |
PRONISITED = coed



13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAG

PARA QUE LE ENVIEN,EL BOLETIN Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DAR. HD

“TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA, PERO TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO

-PERMISO DE LA uRss DEBEN DE PREGUNATAR Y MAS BIEN NO SE. ret ON
EI

LE PIDE ESPERE UN ENTO, WF IS SILVIA DURAN DEL . DOO TED
CUBA Y EXPLICA LO MISHO A OTRO HD. ESTE LE DICE QUE LE DEI [Bi

TELEFONO Y SU NOWBRE PARA QUE DESPUES LE LLAMEN. SILVIA SE LO

PROPORCIONA ASI CONO EL TELEFONO 11 28 47, Y QUE APROVECHA CONO GnsaA
PERSONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA PODIDO AVISAR

LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOURKHARENKO PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE
LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO 0 AGREGADO CULTURAL. SILVIA DICE
QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 13 26. HD QUE GRACIAS.”

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV EMB TO

11 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE AMERICANO. i
SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA. HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS QUE LES MOSTRO

DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA URSS PARA ALLA HucHo |

LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO A SU PROBLEMA, PERO ESO SEGUN'
LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO 0 CINCO MESES PERC SIN TENER ESE

DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO SIN PREGUNTARLE A WASHINGTON" FER
ESTE SENOR LE. MOSTRO UNA CARTA EN SUE ESQ Ie RO DE UNA ORGANIZAC oN
EN FAVOR DE CUBA Y Ha DICHO uh jigs’ Cuaanos NO PUEDEN ©

DARLE EL VISADO SIN EL vidity, q RUST Y AHORA HD NO SABE QUE HACER

CON EL, PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR La CONTFSTACION DE WASHINGTON.

‘GUN

SILVIA QUE ELLOS TaMBIEN, PORQUE EL PROBLENA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO
CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE
LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE COMO

EL YA SABIA QUE SE 1BA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO RUSO rr

_ BePRODUCTION
PROAIBITED _—



13-00000

ai CLASSIFIED MESSAL:

—REPRODUCT
EN. CUBA Y YA DE ALLA IRSE A LA UNSS, HD QUE La COSA ES PROMIBITED
ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON FERU VA A RECIBIR anon)

VISADO 0 EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA.REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,. ELLA Va

A RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE VISADO ELLA
PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A CUALQUIER LUGAR ESE PERM ISO POR EJEMPLO AQUI
: O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR, PERO AHORITA NO LAS
TIENEN. SILVIA QUE CLARO -Y QUE TAMPOCO SE LE PUEDE DAR “UNA CARTA
+ PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU visa SERA APROVADA. HD QUE ELLOS ‘SOLO DARAU
EL VISADO SEGUN LAS INBICACTONES. SILVIA QUE ENTONCES so PONDRA
EN SU PLANILLA. HD aug TAMPOCO NO SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERDONE™
POR LA MOLESTIA. SILVIA QUE NO HAY CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS.”
De. ON 1 OCT 63 caLL AT 1051 HRS TO SOV MIL ATT IN BROKEN RUSSIAN:
" "HELLO. I WAS AT YOUR’ PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED TO YOUR .
“CONSUL. THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON
AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?" SOVIETs
"I'D LIKE To ask You Td CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUMBER.” MAN ee SIDE:
“PLEASE.” SOVIET: “PLEASE WRITE IT DOWN 15 64 55 AND Asi,

By

4
CONSUL.” MAN OUTSIDE: “THANK YOU." SOVIBTRA PLEAS”

AP haw ourstoe: sPzaxs
IN BRGKEN SPANISH THEN IN Rays 0 SOVIET. “HELLO. VISA FOR

a on 3 OCTOBER 63 CALL TO_ SQV. Wik:

RUSSIA.” SOVIET: “CALL ep THE OTHER PHONE.” MAN OUTSIDE:
"I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA." SOVIET: “PLEASE, CALL
ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL.” wan OUTSIDE: "OH, THE CONSUL.”
: SOVIET: “THAT’S RIGHT, 15 60 55,” MAN. OUTSIDE: “ONE MOMENT PLEASE,
7 I'LL HAVE TO GET A FENCIL TO WRITE THE NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSUE

Bea tears rae ola SO

REPRODUCTION |

PROAIBITED



13-00000

—— ERUAnUCTICN

THE VISA THERE?” SOVIET? “THAT DEFENDS ON YOUR COUVE! PREMIBITED

I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS. PLEASECALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL
AND ASK YOUR QUESTION," MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE a
TELEPHONE AGAIN. SOVIET: GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM

TO ASK FOR THE CONSUL OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO. MAN OUTSIDE:
“THANKS. " .

SECRET

led a review of LIENVO'

CS Cornment: *For:

¥ (1) transcripts.

ee
3

REPRODUCTION |

5 Sovgeiee f

PROSIBTTED Te


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED

Cf vacassiee = WA ( conriC “imiat [1 secret
. ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

BENSON “WO, Pex 1035 ;
“nova 1963. a

corricer's | COMMENTS
*

‘SUBJECT: (Opronatp

fx S10“ C] secreT =] CONFIDENTIAL =] {RIFRMMA =] UNCLASSIFIED

0000217

REPRODUCTION
PROGBITED


1
1
|
i
{

| | ne

et R.B, RIGGS
exte CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: Paoue 0
5 xin
DISTR : FILE:
cone BRETTON
CHRONO (DUMMY) EE pocoa .
Taniacs | ore. Towner
DEFERRED | priority =
to TT") ORERATIONAL | miniacs “|
H ROUTINE XK IMMEDIATE ..
: INFO, ~~
10 IMMEDIATE DIR buP oF
RYBAT Lo f
5 be

REF: MEXI 7025

1, FOL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY
OSWALD; FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF - WOMAN OUTSIDE: HF -
MAN OUTSIDE; MD.- WOMAN INSIDE; MEXK HD - MAN bihesd DE cee |
, “cA, ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT "ENTRADA.

HOMBRE LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO SACER UNA VISA PARA IR

B. ON 27 sPoremben 63 CALL TO SOV CONSULATE 1605 HRS
"ENTRADA, MF DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA ALLI UN
CIUDADANO AMERICANO QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA
EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA LA URSS Y ENTONCES .UIERE SABER
CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO P@RQUE ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE

LA EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN

COORDINATING OFFICERS,

SECRE
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
OUTGOING

Dee ees eran ne

Bes 0300218

i

REPROBUCTION
PROGIBIMED



13-(

00006-

ORIG.

xT:

NSTRat

ge (44)

* REPRODUCTION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: PROHIBITE
SECRET FILE:
Page 2. CLASSIFICATION

i DEFERRED | priority | | waMeEn
$ [OPERATIONAL | aiiace

i | ROUTINE | | IMMEDIATE

To INFO. cle

LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUBANOS TAMBIEN SE LA ‘DADAN
SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A EMIGRACION EN CUBA Y¥
QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABLE
TAMPOCO CON QUE PERSONA Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA.
PROBLEMA, HD LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO, MF ES SILVIA DURAN

DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA ¥ EXPLICA LO MISMO A OTRO HD; ESTE LE

DICE QUE LE DEJE SU TELEFONO ¥ SU NOMBRE PARA QUE DESPUES LE

LLAMEN, | SILVIA SE LO PROPORCIONA ASI COMQ.Ei
: aN :

¥ QUE APROVECHA COMO COSA RERSORAL ‘DE’GUE ELLA SE CAMBIO

ay"
DE DOMICILIO Y NORGE VISAR PARA QUE LE ENVIEN EL BOLETIN

¥ QUE AHORA SE LA BUEDE DAR, HD LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOUKHARENKO
PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO |
© AGREGADO CULTURAL, SILVIA DICE QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA
Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 12 26, HD QUE GRACIAS,""

Cc, ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV

EMB TO ll 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE

AMERICANO, SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLIESTA, HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

nau |
PROHIBITED ~



13-0000

REP RODUICTE
Se) ao PRORIBITED

weiriacs | ora, ‘Numan

3

DEFERRED PRIORITY
rm GBERATIONAL | mariat
ROUTINE | IMMEDIATE | | _
, INFO, one :

error

QUE LES MOSTRO DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA

“URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA GUE ES RUSA,g PERO

TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO
ASU PROBLEMA, PERO ESO SEGUN LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO

© CINCO MESES PERO SIN TENER ESE PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE

“; PREGUNATAR Y MAS BIEN NO’SE LE PUEDE DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO ~

SIN PREGUNTARLE A WASHINGTON PERO SEGUN ESTE SENOR LE MOSTRO

UNA CARTA EN QUE ES 'UN MIEMBRO DE’ UNA ORGANIZACION\EN FAVOR

ANS A
UE, DARLE EL

DE CUBA Y HA DICHO QUE ELLOS LOS oo a

VISADO SIN EL VISADO RUSO Y AHOR® 1 iphoasras QUE HACER CON EL,
Ky ie
TESTAGION DE WASHINGTON, SILVIA

PGRQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAE BAC!
QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, BR Porque EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO
CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE
COMO EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO
RUSO EN CUBA Y YA DE ALLA IRSE A LA URSS, HD QUE LA COSA ES QUE

SI SU ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON PERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA
COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER SASEON RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

in : 0200220

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

|.



13-00000

WMG.
NTs
ISTRe

BM. i)

nerwoueio
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: PRONG ald

SECRET FILE:
Page 4. CLASSIFICATION

| pererren | | priorny | = [= —_
ROUTINE OPERATIONAL [rae
ae INFO, oie i ALE 30

EL VISADO J EL a DE LA ad PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,

i

EPRODUCTION |

ELLA VA A RECIBIR su VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE

@oan D
VISADO ELLA PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A @UAL QUIER LUGAR ESE PERMISO
POR EJEMPLO AQUI O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR, - :
PERO AHORITA NO LAS TIENEN, SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE TAMPOCO SE
PA ate og

LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARTA PORQUE NO SABEN. SI SU VISA SERA. APROVADA;—

HD QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAN EL VISADO SEGUN LAS INDICAGIONES.
ea ky

a)
»QUE TAMPOCO

SILVIA Que ENTONCES ESO PONDRA EN SU PAMELA, :

AN Se
SE LE PUEDE DAR NINGUNA CARTA,DEREGOHAMENDAGION PORQUE NO

)
SE LE CONOCE Y¥ QUE PERIOD LA MOLESTIA, SILVIA QUE NO HAY

a
CUIDADO ¥ QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS." fers Yuta co”
\ Le
D, ON1 OCT 63 CALL AT 1031 HRS TO SOV IL ATT IN BRoKEN!

RUSSIAN: "HELLO, -1 WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED
TO YOUR CONSUL, THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO

WASHINGTON AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?"

SOVIET: "I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU TO CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUMBER,"

MAN OUTSIDE: "PLEASE," SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITE IT DOWN 15 60 55
COORDINATING OFFICERS:

SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

Boe B 0000221

/ :

PROHIBITED ae Se) eee



remy iia bl

REPRODUCTION

0)
exts CLASSIFIED MESSAGE —pare: PROUIBITED
DISTR: SECRET FILE:
Page 5, SIFICATION
priory | ae

OPERATIONAL | twirtaca
IMMEDIATE

Nummer

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

3

INFO, CITE
fi
AND ASK FOR A CONSUL," MAN OUTSIDE: "THANK YOU," SOVIET:

"PLEASE,"

E, ON 3O0CTOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OursiDE:
SPEAKS IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO.
VISA FOR RUSSIA," SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE," MAN |

OUTSIDE; ° "I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA."" SOVIET:

"PLEASE, CALL ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL." MAN-OQYTSIDE:
artes

" "OH, THE CONSUL," ‘SOVIET: “THAT'S RIGHT, 15°

ys

70. gts PENCIL TO WRITE THE
ces

"ONE MOMENT PLEASE, I*LL HA}

NUMBER DOWN, THEY ISSBELRHE VISA THERE?" SOVIET: "THAT
DEPENDS ON YOUR CONVERSATION, I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS,
PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL AND ASK YOUR QUESTION,"
MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE TELEPHONE AGAIN, SOVIET: }
GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM TO ASK FOR THE CONSUL
OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO, MAN OUTSIDE: "THANKS."

END OF MSG

COORDINATING OFFICERS.

RER SECRET wed.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

hermes, SORTER,

REPREDBCTION
PROWIBITED a



13-00000

« B

7

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

fe) + ORECTOR
|FROM MEXICO CITY £3 sopy yy
TACTION: C/SR 5(MR BAGLEY SR WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND copy

‘info 4 DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADCP, C/ch, C/ci/ors, c/ri, Cfras

Gary panne
Conds UrFIcER STAMP

. The Jowing-getion is -
SUtHOFTZ i rar e

at,

SSP REDWOOD LCINPROVE

6
REF DIR aaa an ounces <

1.

2.

To _SPEAK WITH SUSPECT KGB rave mesa taisxov.

| APPARENTLY. UNAVAILABLE sage eto Uae ON LINE WITH
i CONVERSATION ENSUING IN SphvrLiar FORM “TU"s

> KOS: FORGIVE ME FOR ARRIVING LATE.

i MIR: DID YOU RECOVER THE SUITCASE?

; KOS: = YzS.

: NIA: THEN IT WAS ARRIVING ON THE OTHER TRIP.

H KOS: YES. ap
CALLED TO TELL YOU THE FOLLOWING, THAT REGARDING

TER THAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT, TO SEE IF WE ¥oL

oo PARK BECAUSE NY WIFZ IS PREPARING SduE

Hepniicticrion
PRORIERTED

SEC RE T 2322552 pre
INMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7634 Signed: a

. Ni ‘ .
° 0000223

Seb

BETETT AA 70 10GngHA
‘NGIASU NOLLVOLISSW19

16, Yay 9 EN 9240nGNCO

rey
Bee ew
Oo 3 j-
aa
2

eo 2
g

5 30V
3 &™
8

c= .
aT
3 I!

0 -02538

|


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
_ | PROHIBITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO GO WITH YOU. CAT THIS POINT KogTioce

j AS AZCUE, AND MIR CORRECTS Hin, Ci

AZCUE LOPEZ, FORMER CUBAN CONSUL).

KOS! HAVE YOU ALREADY TALKED WiTK
NECHIPORENKO?

MIR:~

"D LIKE TO TALK WITH PAVEL YATSKOV. ar
KOS: WAIT A “INUTE, HE’LL COME NOW. = Fc

MIR: IF HE’S BUSY I°LL CALL HIM LATER, BUT I°LL BE AYALL
FOR THE NEXT HALF HOUR AT TEL NO 11 28 47.
KOS: OK. ,
3. CONTINUANCE LIENVOY SOVEMB REPORTING AFTERNOCS!
CABLED SEPARATELY.

SECRET

0200224

REPRODUCTION
“PRORIOTED



13-0900; +. « a)

ues "  REPHODUET i004

© CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Ra COMMO : SECRET .
CHRONO (DUMMY) CLASSIFICATION

: DEFERRED [ck Priosiry | “ST PO cor

iW | OPERATIONAL | iwiriats |

ih ROUTINE IMMEDIATE |

0 "INFO, ae DD = re TUS
PRITY DIR DUP OCF SEF Mext soma

Taw eee .~ 59-23

1. COMPLETE RECHECK PHOTOS ALL VISITORS TO CUBAN EMB

AUGUST THRU FIRST HALF NOV AGAINST GOOD PRESS PHOTOS SHOWS

NO EVIDENCE OSWALD VISIT, SIMILAR BLANK AGAINST ALL SOVEMB

PHOTOS FROMLSEPT. NOTE ONLY VISIT WE KNOW HE MADE WAS CUBAN_

EMBASSY 28 SEPT, SATURDAY ON WHICH EMB CLOSED AND WE HAVE

NOT HAD COVERAGE/ IN FUTURE WILL REQUIRE AT LEAST HALF DAY

PHOTO COVERAGE BOTH SOV AND CUBAN EMBASAIE:

2. CHECK MANIFESTS ALL Piaget Anaavinc MEXI CENTRAL
yay
WELD ARRIVAL UNDER ANY LIKELY

AIRPORT FROM U.S. FALBS'SS 3
pan
VARIANT HIS NAME, PASSING THIS INFO GOM ASKING THEY CHECK

BORDER airPdrs FROM WHICH OSWALD MIGHT HAVE FLOWN MEXICO
CITY, WE DO NOT GET MANIFESTS THESE DOMESTIC FLIGHTS.

END OF MSG

COORDINATING

auTwenticenihé oFricen cur SiSetON RELEASING SMICER
OUTGOING

Bec al el ear ta SM Sete rh

REP



13-00000 7 oe 3 ~

ae 5 F
¢ CLASSIFIED yf
| GL INDEX SECRET ] a
5613 CNOTINDEX ai
DATE BN, HommsmaRR 1.963 E1 FILE IN C5 FILE NO. a
To :werico cry CS-tupy | Rov 24
FROM: DIRECTOR .
a 4, 5 T. cD
Bean ia ae ECToerereco
Pa : A ROUTINE
IY’: ey, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP, Cl, C1/OPS, FI,'SR_7, SAS 8, OS 2, VR ”
: g 1

70 TAMEDIATS MSxt

op $4928

Aron SEI ALE TE TRAFFIC HEADING TE STATO SILVIA DURA, OE

OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO CIPY IN LATE
————___——

FICATION REVIEW
eonouereo. ont 6 APR 1976
eAauurper cL ov_2cader

“Document Number m25

Di A00-S-¥ { pleas al wR 08 Pol 22

COORDINATING OFFICERS

}
5
4
ry
5
f
‘

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED



13-00000

‘REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

rome ) . , ew
{ \
‘oe a
DisTR:
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ACTION: DATE: 24 Nov 63
INFO: FILE:

THEGHING NUMBER

i DEFERRED PRIORITY ;

i ROUTINE Siatcolarem 6702 ant

To INFO CITE i
IMMEDIATE MEXT BiRabRO

LIENVOY 7

te AFTER ANALYZING ALL. THE TRAFFIC AND READING THE STATEMENT. Of
SILVIA DURAN, ONE IMPORTANT QUESTION STILL (PUZZLES: Use JSHEN LEE
OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO CITY IN LATE SEPTEGER ‘qorteaacy OCTOBER TO
GET A SOVIET’ VISA AND A conan Siggs'vESA, DID HE WANT TO TRAVEL
TO CUBA RIGHT AWAY, ALONE, OR*HAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND 7
THEN LEAVE FOR CUBA, OR DID HE PLAN TO RETURN TO THE STATES FIRST |. ;
AND THEN LEAVE LATERe ALTHOUGH IT APPEARS THAT HE WAS THEN THINKING
ONLY ABOUT A PEACEFUL CHANGE OF RESIDENCE TO THE SOVIET UNION,

IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT HE WAS GETTING DOCUMENTED TO MAKE A QUICK
ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSINATING THE PRESIDENTe

2. PLEASE RESTUDY YOUR LIENVOY MATERIAL AND GIVE US YOUR OPINION,

AND ALSO HAVE MEXICANS QUESTION SILVIA DURAN VERY sat (0 ON i

THIS POINT. ADVISE. . : fe. byfsin Daan

| REPROBUCTIONY
_— PROAIBITED


13-00000

vo » REPRODUCTION
PROTIBITED

72M 1304 : 4)

ORS: RLL,EASBY |

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE .
DATE: 24 NOVEMBER 1963

DISTR=. COMMO SECRET ILE: P-7976 ;
CHRONO (DUMMY) cus:

P-8593 c
‘P-8593 i

NUMBER

Tarra

PRIORITY.

DEFERRED
OPERATIONAL | mwiriacs
ROUTINE IMMEDIATE

10 IMMEDIATE DIR INFO. OH seer LOH

5 bury
RYBAT .) U '

DIR: A, MEXI 7046
B. DIR 84920 |

1, ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENTS REF A: cot

-

-B. SINCE SHE ; ‘5 NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER

MEMBERS OF FAMILY ABOUT OSWALD VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME

AND SAW TV PICTURE, SHE AITRIBUTED ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY :
COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIKE. THUS SOURCE GOM KNOWLEDGE NOT
REVEALED TO HER,

C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWLAD STAYED IN MEXI.

D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS STILL VALID FOR
USSR, HE TOLD HER WISHED RETURN THERE PERMANENTLY WITH WIFE.

E, DURAN HAD IMPRESSION OSWALD HAD OR BELIEVED HE
HAD MADE ARRANGEMENTS IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS

WCULD BE SENT SOVEMB MEXL_TO Issue. 5

ENTRY VISA IN MANNER

‘7 SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICAT!

CUTGOING

| neProoucrien de -au7/2.
PRORIBITED =

RECENT PERIEE®


13-00000

_ ‘REPRODUCTION
PROTIBITED

RSs ise , “4 |
® ‘ (
ORG i
~ }
Ts

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pate: :

FILES

Page 2.

iuTiAca | Bra,

NuMaER

pererren | | pRioRnY

~ OPERATIONAL
ROUTINE IMMEDIATE

WNITIALS |

INFO. cite 70s¢

Himaen

BY WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF HAVE TO VISIT SOVEMB, FAILURE HIS

REAL OR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED HIM

BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. (COMMENT: PARA IC OF MEXI 7933

PARTIALLY BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS bd i acon

4

F, HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO COULD
NOT LIVE COMFORTABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISHED *
RETURN TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN USSR, . oe

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHETHER HE GOT USSR VISA OR CUBAN

TRANSIT VISA BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART INIT.
- H. IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY
SHE UNAWARE.
2, REF DIR 84916 (IN 6687). ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN
RE LEAK AND HAS WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST

FACT OF ARREST MAY W. ELL, RE LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED

SECRET .
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

CUTSOING 6200229 :

REPRODUCTION
PROUBIMED


13-00000

-

Has 1304 r

ORIG:

To

CLASSIHED MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION

DATE:

SECRET FILE:
eee CLASSISICATION

DEFERRED

| |__ priorny

| OPERATIONAI
IMMEDIATE,

ROUTINE

INFO,

ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE RELEASED BUT KEPT

UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE,

si 4 age
THIS PERIOD ALREADY ERASED, * Sep AEE LING THAT ABOVE IS

aby :
BEST ANSWER OBTAINABERBD WEF B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION

DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES,

END OF MSG

COORDINATING OFFICERS:

SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER, CLASSIFICATION

R

CUTGOING

EPRODUCTION
lacie

CITE

PROWIBITED

(4)

Porerry

Qe

UP SAME TIME, COS WILL CONTINUE PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH

0000230

neveasiié GeSiten


peg
| *y DIRECTOR

FROM + MEXICO CITY.

ACTION: eR

INFO" + DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADOP, c/ci, c/Fi 2, C/sR 5, C/SAS 5, D/os 2,
‘

E38 “Exons orrican staue
SECRET 24/1857%

IMMEDLATE DIR CITE jst tose yas4

Ca! LfMEDLATE
REF MEX 7046 acer Ro. sl -Uatt C25 _ |
“pie sao20** Wote: If doctrictioa, cite
reasons and coordinate

1. ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENTS R. A; if appropriate.
Tar -

a\buRaN ARRESTED AT HONE WITH HUSBAND AND WENBERS of-Fawricymro—
“HAVING PARTY, ALL TAKEN TO JALL. : _

'B. SINCE SHE HAD TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER MEMBERS OF FAMILY
sour oswatp VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME AND SAW TV PICTURE, SHE ATTRIBUTED
ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIXE. THUS SCURCE = 6

KNOWLEDGE NOT REVEALED TO HER. Document Number
: en APR 1976
C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWALD STAYED. ‘fy FOIA Review on

D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER+WAS sai FOR USSR. HE TOLD
HER “WISHED RETURN THERE P Tees WIFE. 2 eTAY ve
ve . 2
E. DURAN HAD IMPRESSION OSWALD HAD OR BELIEVED HE HAD MADE. ARRANG
HENTS IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS WOULD BE SENT SOVEMB MEXI TO
ISSUE SOV ENTRY VISA IN MANNER BY WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF HAVE TO VISIT

= soquinyy quewsn0g

SOVENB. FAILURE HIS REAL OR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED
HIM BECCME RUDE TO SOVIETS. (¢ COMMENT: PARA 1C OF MEXI 7933 PARTIALLY

? i
3h 4 ay Uo Ma}Aoy YIOS 40p

BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS NO SIGNS RUDENESS IN OSWALDS TALKS
8 HH

0° 200-s~ =
DiA S- FE AY Revg ee |

. 725 Sat raed
B Jol O7Y obzoSteion BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED

Copy No.

CR ees PIERCE Sse Tt nS me

0006234 -



13-00000

= © REPRODUCTIO!
| -— PRORIEITED,|

LAST go RRS SN a LIS RED EN AIRES SASS

a CLASSIFIED MESSAGE a

SEGREL

fey
Bs

TO + DIRECTOR

FROM 6
ACTION: Peas oes a .

iNFO “8 4

WITH SOVS. FURTHER DETAILS DURAN INTERROGATION MAY REVEAL OSWALD
BECAME ABUSIVE. IN- CUBAN FMB AS RESULT HIS FRUSTRATION BY SOVS. >

F. HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY “COMRADE” WHO COULD NOT LIVE CouFORT- |
ABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISH AND WISHED RETURN. mista. HOME IN
USSR. Ly :

wis co i
“G. DURAN KNOWS NOT BN 5 ee VISA OR “cuBaN TRANSIT VISA

BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD. NO Ber wer

iad IF.OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN eiee EMBASSY SHE UNAWARE.

2. REF DIR. 84916. ECHEVERRIA AWARE OpYOKE CONCERN RE LEAK AND HASs
WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL

BE LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED UP SAME TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE
PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH -ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE
RELEASED BUT KEPT UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE

S- RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933 HQ HAS FULL TRANSCRIPT

'S_ALL PERTINENT
CALLS. REGRET COMPLETE RECHECK SHOWS TAPES FOR THIS PERIOD’ ALREADY — ec tee:

ERASED. STATION FEELING THAT ABOVE IS BEST ANSWER OBTAINABLE. 7

REF B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES. Bea 2 Bi

SECRET

G/S COMMENT: #Echeverria told COS Duran completely coope=
written statement attesting to two visits by Oswald,
d want 'o travél to Guba right ay.

9 in sit en leave for Gaba, 07 did De pla to \
rei acd t :
s's UC TION ‘8¥ OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRUHIDITED Cony

TEs | _—



13-00000

G incase =o (A,

‘SUBJECT: (Optional)

“REPRODUCTION

PROKIBITED

. “
( con NTIAL [J] SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

"= ACTION COPY =

He 2

}

NOV25 3963

TO: [Officer designation, room mmber, ond
belting)

DATE

‘s
INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw @ line ovrots column after wach com

<>

+

sox* 610 “tomer SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION
«PROGID

oO aes (1 UNCLASSIFIED

i
f
J


13-00000

a "REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

oe, CF anssien messace
SECRET

TO + BixecTor

FROM + MEXICO CITY
ACTION: c/w 5 (WH COPY ISSUED 1300 25 Nov/ou)

NFO. y DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADOP, C/scp 4, c/cA 2, C/ca/o 2, c/ch, C/Fi 2, ¢, a af
Bed P/oCls DORs ADDR. Ci Cfca 2, c/eafo 2, cfcr, C/Fi 2, c/sr 5; eal

25 Nov 630567620 §
eee

“IMMEDIATE DIR .
1. MEXI DAILY “EXCELSIOR” OF 25 NOV IMPLYING OWN INVESTIGATIONS RAN

STORY DESCRIBING OSWALD TRIP TO MEXICO 26 SEPT THRU 3S OCT. CROSSED

‘ BRORDER AT LAREDO, VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY 27 SEPT AND NEXT DAY WENT TO 7
- SOVIET EMBASSY. PURPOSE ALLEGEDLY waS TO OBTAIN VISA GO SOVIET UNION. THIS
6, a
_ nor OUR LEAK. cannot ELIMINATE GOBER ACTON, aS. SOUR CE! .

2. FYIs PRESUME Hes IS i air Hse nes HAVA 7 srr

1963. AT rem 10 BS aS ue FIDEL CASTRO IS QUOTED: 7 WE .
- ARE PREPARED TO FI THEM AND ANSWER IN KIND. UNITED STATES LEADERS

SHOULD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS TO

ELIMINATE THE CUSAN LEADERS, THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE.”
i 3. PARA ONE STORY WENT OUT ON GAP EOD Yar . - ~

Beene : CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
---SEGRET The following cotign t9 “1.6 APR 1974
ona authorized: De” SENS/T/ ze _[SOMBucren oud § APR 1876

Signed:
0.

B.0. #1 ~ Unit me A Pol- 2FTA4S
1
| D: Reo a a. Vik ‘Ton, ite

4-33 reasons and coordinate
Document Number 24-233, df éppropriate.

for FOIA Reviewon APR 1975 :
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED “Copy No.

REPRODUCTION 0-62713
SPRORIBIED

| a 000234
|



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PRORIPTED

7
ey

- : :
Cy unciassiried (a) pe (1 COMFY “NTIAL 1 secrer
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional)
mn ACTION COPY SS WWE SI49-CF10 | |
: or NOV 2.5 1963 ;
age mee me | mer | ome rtnrtomt sono |:
rs
ts pyose \ Vad cus oa one =
: oe HEARD By paTs PFT:
z Se Peefee . a
<
= Due IE
= LS
Lard
7. Ey 3
S
8.
gor s | es?
ANT SS af peAnaps weeTA
1e, feasrlantieg AT STHE
ACETINE. — TO Wolo
" . Now (hsECULE
Zz [MTEAAAT ALA CLES
ARE >
14. a :
a :
15. a 000235
i
Smt GLO tmess* (secret ([] CONFIDENTIAL [[] WITFRMAL =) UNCLASSIFIED

| REPRODUCTION
SPROGIBITED


13-00000

a ‘REPRODUCTION

| | PROMIBITED

TO —_« DIRECTOR 31 H a
FROM 1 UMWAVE,
ACTION: ‘SAS 8 |”

INFO. DOP, Cl, Ci/oPS, Fl, FI/INT, WH 7, VR
US

SECRET 2522212
DIR INFO MEXI CITE WAVE 2149

TYPIC
1. ODFOAN ADVISED WAVE THAT PHONE CALL FRO# SNE JOSE SAN ANTONIO.

CABACA IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186354) TO DR. EWILIO NUNEZ PONTUONDO,

MIAMI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVENSER 65. CONVERSATION os SPANISH

AND GIST. OF IT IS: PLAN OF CASTRO alia ropa ER IS NEXT.
ce)

SOON THE ATONIC 30"3S WILL RAIN | NANO A ake ta FROM WHERE.
2. WAVE TRACES Nun SUEJECT 221-3123564. a

NO RECORD CaSaCa. wore ANOT-2 ADVISED CaBaACA IS FROBASLY yOSE
ANTONIO CABARGA SAINZ, DPOB CIRCA 1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, cUsA.

CURRENTLY RESIDES MEXICO-CITY, PO 30X 3¢09 AND HAS SAKE PHONE

NO. PARA 1 ABGVE, HE IS NOy OCCUPIED WITH OSTAINING XEXICAN VISAS

FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUSS. HE IS PRONOUNCED SaTISTIANO

AND RIGHTIST WITH T

ES TO SaTISTA GRIPS IN US. ANE

ADS THE
CLASSIFICATION, REVIEW.
Jconoucren of 6 APR 1976

eLQmpver cr sy I72203
Lala Fr 73

ALIANZA PARA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICA.
3.

BEING INFCRHED RE PARA 2

Document Number

0000236

REPRODUCTION
\ PROWIBIMED

Q0214


13-00000:

anctassirien = (SERNA,
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED.

con” lentia CO secret

‘SUBJECT: (Qational)

ACTION COPY

= Ex! UE?

care CT

0000237

form 619 “Emmis [] SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROAIBMED

CONFIDENTIAL C) yse'cnty (UNCLASSIFIED © |


13-00000

as REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITE

CLASSIFIED ‘MESSAGE
SECRET

TO 4 DIRECTOR 53.0

FROM 1s MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1430 26 Nov/LNG)
INFO + DCI, D/OCl, DOP, ADDP, C/Cl, C/FI 2, C/SAS 5, VR, D/OS 2, C/SR5

SECRET 2618392
INFEDIATE MANA INFO IMMEDIATE D

1. AT THIS MOMENT STATION: OFFICER AND LOCAL SECURT:
ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN WHO CLAIMS THAT ON 18 SEPTEMBER HE SAW

“= ZG tov s31N6829 1
TY OFFICER

’ LEE OSWALD RECEIVE SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED D'OLLARS IN MEETING
@
INSIDE CUBAN EMBASSY MEXI.
Pent

2. REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE MEXI en GILBERTO

7 1
NICARAGUA’. CLAIMS i

ALVARADO, BORN 31 JAN 1949 CIUDAI 3 Sean,
HE AWAITING FALSE ms an PRIOR RECEIVING SABOTAGE
TRAINING CUBA. cars WN LO, ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS

FONSECA AMADOR ARE. veneERs HIS (COMMUNIST?) ORGANIZATION -
NICARAGUA.

ARAGUA RECORDS OFFICER STAMP
SECRET the following action is

autorized: DE SENS/ Ze |
Document Number (24-54 nae |

for FOIA Review on APR 1976 Signed: Cah ——
no. n- unit C/A

Kote: if destructica, cite

y _ Li a coordinat

). Reo-S- FI roms a eeortitey, , 4 oF yg
£3 pgny, b) i
oS 3 COPY ot
lconoucTeD on 24 MAY 1979 7 26 MEEVEE DS '
SECRET 5 i

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS ‘PROHIBITED Copy No.
nena . 7 So “= 9000238 .

| REPRODUCTION .
| PROMOTED 0215



13-90000....... meme senor tabs stim

ae Tyee 7 CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE”
Hes JOU Me WITTTENS way | DME
urs faa INDI
ps Sa? TM yl SECRET fi
1 DATE + 9 DRORMMMA 1.963 OI FILE IN CS FILE NO. Le
F410 : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

DEFERRED

7 cone: C/WH OY
x| ROUTINE
] nro sn, P/oct, OOP, C/cl, c/ci/Fi, WR
a aaa aer

RYBAT- GPFLOOR \
"pap voce. yah. (a 73638)

PLS DO NOT ERASE/ANY SOVIET OR CUBAN TAPES UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.

DOG. MICRO. SER.

pec4 1974

——

ADVISE HOW MUCH MORE TAYE YOU NEED.

. END OF MESSAGE
ai MICROFILMED
q-it
} 5 G/S Comment:*Station-to erase routine tapes Soviet Embassy, keep-

i 4 ing normal two-week lag.
vod

reasons 2
if aporopriate-

|

201-289248

D-200-5-4 coco NF

=
FOIA Review on MAY 75
f by Direction of Ld
— RICHARD HES, DDP COORDIMATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET
REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy *

0000239 ;



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBIT

Ss

oer . Stee ye

on - . 2
. CLASSIFIED MESSAGE - 1262
, Me WEITEENSe;y {ir Rautne
5613 xo wox'l2iS EC RET 2.
4 HAY 1964 © FLEIN cS FILE NO. 7
Fer +
yo : MEXICO CITY ye a ye
FROM: DIRECTOR um Sid CEH
scone: C/WH ie : Bp be OEFERRED
,) +} Rf Rounne
INFO:

ocr, 0/ocl, DDP, C/cl, C/Ci/BI, C/cI/RA, VR

_ 3? CONSULATES IN MEXICO CITY ARE OPEN TO PUBLIC; ‘THEIR .
NORMAL WOREING HOURS. THEIR ZEOCED TRE AND REGULATIONS, ~ °

2. REQUEST MEXI CABLE SOOUARY OF ALL, THAT CAN BE ASCERTAINED
RECORDS OFFICER STAMP Anes on

END OF MESSAGE

SE oes y

tf =
po ens Ce for FOIA Review on SUR 1976

cite

veret reasons and coordinate copy ® cl /RtA

iz ae

- Wey . Cs COPY

COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET
D-200-RERICOUCTION BY OTHER TH:

0000240

REPRODUCTION
| \ PROIBITED 0-0n.117



13-00000

7 REPRODUCTION
ROR

FROM 1 MEXICO CITY
ACTION: = ¢/
INFO: = DCI, D/oCI, DOP, c/cI,

-§ SECRET cents fC Ain Ueee cee s}
8: as _
BIR CITE MEXI 9332 wiih? 7522
“RYSHT* GPFLOGR 1 [e+4 .

—
Hote: I? destruction, cite
REF DIR 18627* reagons and coordinate,

- it appropriate,

1. SOVIET EMB AND CONSULATE ARE NOT OPEN-O PUBLIC. OFFICES
ARE IN COMPOUND ACCESSIBLE TO PUBLIC 2Y APPOINTHENT. SOVIET GUARDS
ARE ON OUTSIDE GATE AROUND CLOCK. NORMAL WORK HOURS SEP 1965

WERE 0960 TO 1848 GUT RECENTLY CHANGED 6929 TO 1480 MONDAY AND

FRIDAYS. SIXTEEN SOVIET FANILIES LIVE IN ConPouspE NtStTORS RING
ps. %

BELL AT GATE AT ALL HOURS. RUSSIAN SPEI .
R:

IN ANYTIME. =

OTHERS USUALLY TURNED “AWAY BY ah Ss SOVIETS ARE NOT .
AN A

ate
: KNOWN TO ISSUE PERMITS F, iM et BA.
: 2. CUBAN EMB ANDY E IN SANE COMPOUND BUT HAVE SEPARATE

ENTRANCES. CONSULATE RECEIVES VISITORS FROM 1624 TO 1428 HOURS

MONDAY. THROUGH FRIDAY.

‘SASSY WORKING HOURS ARE FROM G90@ TO 170%
HOURS SAME DAYS BUT MOST EMBASSY VISITORS USUALLY ATTENDED BEFORE 2.
1463 HOURS, THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING SEPT 65. 20l-2¢074e

5. CUBAN EMB PROCEDURES AND REGULATIGNS FOR ISSUING PERMITS

FOR TRAVEL TO AND THROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORMALLY VALID FOR. THREE

tow i ‘uel al

WONTHS FROM DATE OF ISSUE. 5 PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY _

Document Number

i UN 4978 palo
for FOIA Review dn J SECRET es

B 4 2UU-9-41 RepRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED Copy No. -

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

a



13-00000

‘REPRODUCTION
;  PRERIBITE

See Sanitized File CG *
INZILIZ pce

CWERSFIED MESSAGE
ReqULRED, BEFORE. ISSUANCE ANY VISA. APPLICANT COMPLETES VISA

%
t

APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, PiRwiISSION OFTEN OBTAINED

IN EXCHANGE OF CABLES SETYEEN E3ASSY AND NINREX HABANA. IN MANY

CASES VISAS ISSUED ON SEPARATE SHEET PAPER IN EFFORT CONCEAL FACT

OF TRAVEL. . ‘
4. MEXICAN GOVT PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PEPRIME

CITIZENS us AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED SINCE HNMA 20887 DATED 3-MAY a

~ 1965. PEPRIME CITIZENS “wITH PASSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS, ARE FREE TO
TRAVEL TO CUBA. PEPRIME CITIZENS CAN OSTAIN TOURIST CARDS FROM
HEXICAN CONSUL HAVANA FOR RETURN VIA MEXICO. ©
SECRET

*Warzen Commission requested KUBARK furzish hours when Cuban

and Soviet assies and Consulates in Mexico City are open for their normal
working howrs; theiz procedures and regulations formaland
issuing permits for travel to and through Cuba.

C/s Come:

0000242

REPRODUE Tiny
“PROAIBITED



13-00000

ZA

[

EPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

By ROBERT S. ALLEN’
And PAUL SCOTT

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.
—The Central Intell
gence Agency withheld
Vital intelligence infor-
mation from the Warren
‘Commission during its in-
vestigation of the assas-
sination. of President
Kennedy.

Despite the commis
sion’s written request. for
all documents that might
shed light on the assas-
sination, CIA authorities

>” PROH

ials who actively oppose
“Soviet policies.

Titled “Soviet Strategic
Executive Action,” | the
suppres: jocu-
Tent went into the stock-
ing details of how agents
of KGB, the Soviet secret
Police, are trained to do
away with Western lead-
ers, including officials in
the U.S. and to make
their deaths appear due
to natural causes.

‘One of the KGB's new-
Iy_ devised assassination
‘wapons -is..“a: pnumati-
cally, operated poison ice
‘atomizer,’ - which leaves
no wound or other ‘ede
dence. of the cause of-
death”™ ore
‘While this deadly weap-

officals name “alse
Peaped, ine “address
2a suspect
Viet agent “wito arrived
in the U.S, “in 1943, 30.
Ed lhe
Congressional investi.
gators also have been
Ehocked to discover that

REPRODUCTION
ISITE

on has yet to be used
against_any high West
ern official, hundreds of
KGB agents covertly op-
erating outside of Russia
have been supplied with
thi, Rockersize, gun,
awaiting only orders
from Moscow to use it.

The Murder Weapons

HIGHLIGHTS of the
suppressed” Intelligence
estimate, which is locked
in a security area within
the  tightly-guarded CLA,
are, as follows:

“at has been reported
that the KGB endeavors
Soviet interests poses by

Soviet inter
‘certain members of West-

* erm governments, som e-

times, arranging forthe

The invest
ae ceieatone also
why the CIA in i
2ssasinetion report te
the State D fox
Oswald's trip to Mexico
Chy gave details only oF
the defector's visit to the
Rusia embassy and not
aban -embasay,

CIA did not + the
latter visit

the -
until after
Kenzed toatl
SBS sion

cally.
“Such activities are
Lael to A Can
against other types o!
persons in the West, not-
ably defectors from the
‘U.S.S.R. and from other
countries of the Soviet
bloc. ~

“One recently reported
assassination technique
‘to electrocute an individ-
ual by luring him to
use a telephone, connect-
ed to a high-voltage wire,
during a thunderstorm.
-“Another involves the
use of a pistol which
projects a poison gas in -

Liquid or
form. The
within "seco
autopsy wou
its use. No
poisons have
ed which do
fect until 5

vafter being
‘thus allowing
to be far fro
when his vic

“A know
source has
pneumatically
Poison ice ‘
which leaves
or other evic

statise ot deat

Congtessio:
gators, who
that the nar
committee &


Ss Inside Washington’ errs
_ CIA Withheld Vital Intellige

‘By ROBERT. S. ALLEN

. And PAUL SCOTT

WASILINGTON, Oct. 20.

The Central Intelli-

‘ gence Agency withheld
vital intelligence — ‘infor-
mation from the Warren
Connission during its in-
vestigation of the assas-

. sination of President
Kennedy. .
Despite the commis-
sion’s writlen request for
all documents that might
shed light on the assas-
sination, CIA authorities
failed to turn over a na-
tional intelligence esti-
mate warning that it. is
Kremlin policy to remove
from public office by as-
sassination Western offi-

Freon 00

a

a
a

cials who actively oppose
“Soviet policies.

Titled “Soviet Strategic
Executive Action,” the
suppressed CIA docu-
ment went Into the shock-
ing details of how agents
of KGB, the Soviet secret
police, are trained to do
away with Western lead-
ers, including officials in
the U.S., and to make
their deaths appear duc
to natural causes.

One of the KGB's new-.

ly. devised assassination
wapons ~{s ,“a° pnumati-
cally. operated poison: ice.
‘atomizer,’.. which ‘leaves
sno wound or: other “evi
denée of the cause
death,” j
Whil

this deadly weap:

Documents.

fence experts,

. have been
this CIA
“other documents . su

pressed by the Sinte De.
partment had ‘been aval. .

able for study, . :
, They
‘othe baer |
> 6uppressed evidonce Link.
ding Oswald.‘with ono «
dts employes, - who. a
cording to
“prescuted

strom pro.

>OTHER U.S, inten.

e vory .du- ;

ious of Russla's coven:

ialenee ine, stress ‘that ©

. Warren -Commig., i
- sion’s findings might ! Tadhg Speaker Hy

ifforent if. ; ni

oint out that
2 Department:

security. files,

on has yot to be used

agalnst a gl Weat-
ern offict iditeds of
KGB agen wrtly op-
eraling ou Russia
have been d with
this pock ga an,
awaiting rders
from Moscow it,
“The Murder nS

HIGHLIGH whe

suppressed in

‘estimate, which ig, Joeted
in a security areg in
the tightly-guard:

are as follows: ee

“It has been refipitet
t the KGB endeavors

ertain: members of Wi
ernments; so

thal

to reiiiéverthe,. threat. ed to a high-voltage wire,

' Soviet: interests’ posed: by ~guring a thunderstorm.
aj, Mather involves the

ern
fines

, dent Johnson,

lin, no

‘anethods, ...« °-~

oniy recently from con.
who ft

fressional nrahors

ing’ f thy pt

" * adininistration 3p,
“officials to § eaker John. a
McCormack (Mass.), next'

in line Yo succeed Presi-
Whilo FBI officials »

Domininist thet he ae
at, Commin e ig on
estimate and; ‘the list -of Western ‘offd-
clals feared ‘by. the Krem.
CIA authority
‘thas shown the No. 2 man
dn government the CIA
report listing ithese <se-'
eret ‘Sovitt -assassinatio!

dismissal of such persons

from public office, at oth-
er times even having *
- (hem ‘ ‘eliminated’: physi ;

calle . . .

“Such activities are *

“known to be undertaken
against other types of -
persons in the West, not-.
ably defectors from the
US.S.R. and from other
countries of the Soviet
bloc. .

“One recently reported
assassination technique is
to electrocute an individ-
ual by Juring him to
use a telephone, connect-

e of a pistol which

jects a polson gas ‘in
- : : mo

nce From War ren Commission

Ifgquld or compressed
form. The gas is fatal
within seconds and an
pblopsy would not reveal
its use. Non-tracea ble
poisons have been report-
ed which do not take ef-
fect until several hours
after being administered,
thus allowing an assassin
to be far from the scene
when his victim dies.
“A knowledgeable
source has described a
pneumatically operated”
poison ice ‘atomizer’
which leaves no wound
or other evidence of the

-¢ause of death.”

Congressional investi-
ators, who have asked
that the name of their
committee be withheld

for security reasons re
ort that CIA Director
john McCone made no
mention of this explosive
document in his secret
testimony before the
Warren Commission.
While McCone furnish-
ed the commission with
the CIA’s secret surveil-
lance reports on Lee
Harvey swald’s  cight
days in Mexico City bew
fore the assassination. ine

cluding details of Os to D .

wald’s contact with the j oo

head KGB agent in the my?

bet

Soviet embassy there,
the CIA chief gave no
hint of the Kremlin's a3-
sassination policy.

{CONTINUED ON 5-3) ”

HOLDEM


Sara
SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WH Division

Baer
Glee Harvey OSWALD

TETiai FEOUIRED - REFERENCES

é Action Required: Please advise re negatives

: In view of. recent reopening of the publicity regarding

i Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would
lixe to determine whether the Station still has on hand

the negatives from which the prints available at Headquarters

were made of the unidentified "nystery man" coming out of

both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies. If they are still

on file, it is requested that they remain so, and that they

be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than

destroyed if the latter action is ever contemplated.

y

Bseck Elsie I, SCALETTI

zZ

CO _Hendgosokeas Request Foam the

hegatwes of he umdentfied “my skey Wan”
\emoung beth Ta Soovet an @ Coban

EmbasseS wry a

ge

A
ame -
same as
Distribution:

1001-964
2 - COS, Mexico City : :
. ; : 6|- 28124 ;

a
@

a ane

QBMA 1967
GST wut TRG TNO. OD WOUHER OnE
HMMW-15488 18 May 1967

We FILE NUMBER
201~289248

Ze ORIGINATING

are = oe TST ca
H/C. Bustdé-videla sas

“COORDINATING

RI
Chrono

REPRODUCTIONS. FZ
SURAT “DISPATCH

ra


13-00000

~ REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

|

Chief, WH Division

Tae

Lee Harvey OSWALD

j
H
i
1
{

j

Distribution:

‘ReTiOw REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: Please advise re negatives

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would
like to determine whether the Station still has on hand

the negatives from which the prints available at Headquarters
were made of the unidentified "mystery man" coming out of

both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies, If they are still

on file, it is requested that they remain so, and that they

be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than
destroyed if the latter action is ever contemplated.

CAF FE fap, a=

OBA
RPM ee F Hen vee Chrono Cd 148)

me inirTeD

fev 1O+ 1965. Bare ,

2 - COS, Mexico City

2a!
SRESS REFERENCE TO ‘DSPATCH SYNOL AND WIMBER DATE
| Huny-15488 __ 18 May 1967
ere WS PLE MBER
SECRET 201-289248 P&S 73

D UP. OF 0000246

REPRODUCTION “bee 2720
-BASHHOITED

aes



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMTED_

(UNCLASSIFIED oO 4 WA o cor” NTIAL 1 secrer
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ~~

action copy | AX 7037
| — e an hi = oS
az 5D ;
a —+— —T Z3
10. —\—
. 0000247

ee 610 “isse" C] secret ©] CONFIDENTIAL =] INERMAL )UNcLassIFIED



|
.
|
|
|
|
|

Document Number 1 27 QA

‘for FO!A K.view on . APR 1976

r

EPRONUE TION 002723.

© Heme passed te Fin Papueh Ff FEE 22 tovember 1963
with mFe on pieore corrKg of om bosses
info Ory Kos7ake

Je heve photographic coverage during daylight hours on the

USGR, Cusan, Cxachoslovak and Folah Embassics. Their consulates
are located in the embassies ani therefore the coverage of the
embasoics weuld include covet age of the consulates. .

‘The photographic coversge cf tee mentioned installations is of

a continuous nature during daylight huurs, however, weather

conditions and other facta: s affecting aay jthoteyraphic efforts re-

quire (ost the coverage not oe considered as total or complete, Our

ication

elforts tneseinre do not prode-¢ phetographs useful for id.
of 2ll pernons who enter or dezu't such Installations,
Aitsr exdmiaing all our traces on KOSTIG3Y

yee

qe
boyoud reasonable dowht thi he bs: cox of the KGL.

Contributing to this Ww is eesocistcs, bis movemecsts,

his Mextcan and other rontacts ond hia cover position, as well as

bio lavolvernent in the SAREE operation.

KOSTIKOV's involvement in GRAMMY RB is om only season

to believe that ke le connected with the 13th Department, KOSTIKOY :
was In clasdestine contact with DOMERIBMRHGt (as definitely con- i
fimoed bye BPRAMNERIB photo identificat\on) eed arrang: H

RAR contact in the U.S, with s KGB colleague of xosrds

0000248

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW -
conoueren of 4 BAY 197%

27 Nov!
3oji-29akk

PROBED ® SECRET \


13-00000

oe ony as
HF Were:
No
ont

anne

Sa os =7 Oo) FRED
pes potion cepy: :

INTERNAL )_sUNCLASSIFIED
(Se lower secret] CONFIDENTIAL D use om ;

Ge0U249

REPRODUCTION
PRoWierrED

5


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED

Taiviacs | pre. umpen

Cupar Chronos Dvmwawy—_

ae narvey Pooeta.

5 PRIORITY
| OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

DEFERRED

Terrace

= ROUTINE

DIR INFO.
RYBAL GPFLOOR
REF: DIR 18827
1, -SOVIEE HG} AND COUSULATE ARE KOE OPEN 70 PUBLIC, OFFICES ARE IW Cott
POURD ACCESSIBLE TO PUBLIC BY APPOTRTMENT, SOVIET GUARDS ARE O3 OUTSIDE GATE
AROUND CLOG, NORMAL WORK HOURS SEP 1963 WERE 0200 TO 1600 BUT RECENTLY CHANGED
0900 TO 2h00 MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY, SOV CONSULATE FREQUENTLY CHANGE. NOW OPEN
1200 70 1500 MONDAYS AND FRINAYS, SIXTEMT SOVIGT FAMILIES LIVE I COMPOUND.
‘VISITORS RING BELL AT GATE AT ALL XKES HOURS, HUSSIAN SPEAKERS CAN GE? In
AUEIME, OTHERS USUALLY TUEMED AUAY BY GUARD AFTER HOURS, SOVIETS ARE HOt
‘KROWH 0 ISSUE PERMITS FOR TRAVEL CUBA, ‘
2 CUBAN EMB AND CONSULATE IN SAME COMPOUND SEPARATE EEERANCES,

vasmons usuannr Armaan Ha 2 OURS, THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING
SEP? 65, .

3. CUBAN IMB PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS FOR ISSUING PERMTTS FOR TRAVEL TO
40m THROUGH CUAL VISAS NOMMELY VALID FOR HERE MONTHS FROH DATE OF ISSUE,
PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY REQUIRED HEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA.

APPLICANT COMPLETES VISA APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, PERMISSION OFTEN ORTATNED
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

_ _ Ger
REMARS 250 7

MEXI- 9742 aénniy
5 ADDOCKED EARLIER LN THES -

REPRODUCTION - Book’ SEE DOcaNeur #
| PROBED = 9-002


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PRORIRATED

ees :

percaren’ | | priory | | wunen
(. | | OPERATIONAL | wivaco
ROUTINE IMMEDIATE |
\ INFO. 2 cure 59832

bercre
KAHY CASES VISAS
ISSUED Oil SEPARATE SHEET PAPER I EFFORT CONCEAL PACT OF TRAVEL,

‘TH EXCHANGE OF CABLES BEIWEEH EADASSY AND KIGREX HABATA, I

1, MEXICAN GOVT PROCEDURES AMD EEGULATKONS KE TRAVEL FEPRIME CITIZENS TO
AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED SINCE HMA 20887 DATED 3 MAY 1963. PEPEDG CIMIZES
WORE PASSPORTS AD CUBAN VISAS ARE FREE TO TRAVSL 10 CUBA, PSPRIKE CDYIZENS

‘CAN ORTATH TOURIST CARDS FROM MEXICAN CORSUL HAVAKA FOR RETURT VIA MEXICO,

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RBEIGCGS SECRET WCCURTIS
AENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

QUTGOING

6300251

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED


13-00000

sey REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

1. FEAT (202) File Request, dated 9 December 1960
FOIA No. 1-1B]

2. Three index ca ord System on
ae Bp ervey OsW, "s assassina-

[FOIA No. 2- 52 i)

» DIR 74673, 10 oc GHB PED. 6-3]

5 Menorsndum for Chief, CI/R&A, dated 20 February 19643
Subject: Documents Available in OSWALD's 201 File
[FOIA No. 568- -810]

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Pow

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

ag

PRODUCTION =
PROHIBITED mer


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

Co SECRET ¢
EYES ONLY

20 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&A.

SUBJECT:

1, A machine fisting’
in OSWALD's 201

of documents officially recorded as being

was requested and is attached. The actual
machine work of this" ‘type was begun in 1963, but a few items of previous
dates were. alsa. edorded.

2. & comparison of the documents physically available in the
201 file and those recorded as being in the 201 file has shown that 37
documents which should be in the 201 file are not available in it. This
total is made up of: :

2 dispatches

7 memoranda from the FBI

1 CSCI

2 State Department documents
25 cables.

3. Machine inquiries for the location of these documents have
not been made,-

“fot FOIA Review on SUN 1976

SECRET
“EYES GNLY

cOULTE4

PROGIBITED

Boisuront Number 5 12-IO ,

‘REPRODUCTION  bgan9s


13-00000

vos REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
,) t ’
: nusiod. 1 CLASSIFIED MEssAGe_ (za
ons: = C,. BUSTOS. .pm Z j ROUTING
uNT :  WH/3/Mexicd Gi INDEX SECRET 7 4
er: 5940 NO INDEX 7 7
DATE: 10 Oct 1963 [1 FILE IN CS FILE’NO, ; B
pee 28 anpy } {eres @ ile |
aos
FROM: SAME’? CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
cone: WH B Der RREDEN
. In. | ROUTINE
mro: Cl, CI/OPS, C1/S1,-Fl, SR 7, RF, VR
To INFO ‘CITE /OIR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE" ; 74878
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
~ yl
s let
SUBJECT :, ° LEE HENRY OSWALD °
1. ON 1 OCTOBER 1963 A RELIABLE AND SENSITIVE SOURCE
IN MEXICO REPORTED THAT AN AMERICAN MALE, WHO IDENTIFIED |
2
HIMSELF as|im OSWALD, CONTACTED THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN 3
— a
MEXICO CITY INQUIRING WHETHER. THE EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED 8
fA MEWS CONCERITNG A TELEGRAM WHICH HAD BEEN SENT TO 2] |
z
a |ASHINGTON. 3
et “is YEARS OLD, WITH, AN, ‘jmieare BUILD, ABOUT SIX FEET TALL,
at ¢\ WITH A "imceprisa” HAIRLINE.
¢
re 2. Iris BRETEVED THAT OSWALD MAY BE IDENTICAL TO LEE
Pa oo HENRY OSWALD, BORN ON 18 OCTOBER 1939 IN NEV ORLEANS, LOUISIANA,
es a A FORMER U.S. MARINE WHO DEFECTED TO THE SOVIET UNION IN
wie ft
Neha OCTOBER 1959 AND LATER MADE ARRANGEMENTS THROUGH, THE UNITED

HIS RUSSIAN-BORN_WIFE, MARINA NIKOLAEVNA:PUSAKOVA, ar THEIR, o
Document Numbsoe Sk De /- ASI LES

Gs

\ PR 1975 coat,
‘a ee
Vf

aoe ij

REPRODUCTION penta
PROHIBITED =



13-00000

pe REPRODUCTION
PROWIPITED

. CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 1209
: ROUTING
° 1 INDEX SECRET i 4
1 No INDEX z 5
FILE IN CS FILE NO: z 75

FROM: DIRECTOR
See Sanitized File

DEFERRED

CONFumber

ROUTINE

+ CITE OR

70 YOUR REPRESENTATIVES IN MEXICO CITY. . ANY FURTHER ravens

a H be SE
RECEIVED ON THIS SUBJECT WILL BE FURNISHED YOU. THIS INFORUATION 3}
18 BEING HADE AVAILABLE TO THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATHOH |
SERVICE. END OF MESSAGE i

INFO BASED ON MEXI 6453 (IN 36017) 201-289248

= @I/siG/Egerter (in draft)
patter eran « graze) KA tlre
J. ROMAN a U.N. GALLARY
x Ci /UIAISON coonDinaTing oFricens C/RR/R
_ RELEASING OFFICER auTHENTICATING
i SECRET ‘deciass 5 Paseieee)
' REPL Duero } OTHER THAN THE-ISSUING orn “yer PROHIB, 2. Cory,
a _ St
: at
GoOUTES

REPRODUCTION
PROAIBITED



13-00000

a

Septim on Ax

ornb, cds Sound inthe Dve . sda

EPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

Rl

Kennedys

Corsi oh the Jr ji
Yawneyy Combi or i fads

7
|, OSWALD, LEE HENRY

“SEX M 00B 18 OCT 39
iT ?

Ss!
ADAR_ OPERATOR, U.S.
EFECTED TO USSR «IN,

c
Ri
a
Ri
Of

| Ae
zoi-2652u60\ YAAz-35612

\]-NEW ORLEANS, LA., USA

MARINE CORPS, AS OF 60.
oct 59+ =

j(OSWALD, LEE H. .
i 190-300-011
|,SEK M 00B 18 oct 39 DBA 300501 |
1-USA, NEW ORLEANS 29 oct 63
" Oce 2 eo
wd Nea’ NY ,RLEANS, 709 “MAGAZINE
. W ORLEANS CHAPTER OF THE
peel PEAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE WITH
RS_AT_799 BROADWAY, NEW YORK
CITY. SEE DOC RE Bisa Tauro OF CUBAN
| PROPAGANDA, oe F CUBA
ea | d
a h
35 it : | 5
> 8 | yoy
2 = i . ie 2785 744
8 — a
. R
=e OSWALD, LEE HARVEY :
me 74-500
a | SEX M DOB 18 OCT 39 OBF -49478 - e—
i INEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA 725 MAY 60 .
CiT USSR . PT
; & MOSCOW, USSR :
| EX*U.S. MARINE, WHO UPON“HIS DESCHARGE FROM
| MARINE CORPS, , SEFT 59 “TRAVELED TO USSR 10
| RENOUNCE HIS ‘U.S. CITIZENSHIP. |
i = : P
. |
!
\ [ |
‘ .
ey Np
| feos oe 2 . AO {28428 | |

EPRODUCTION
PROKIBITED

GG0U787
: hoe 5



13-0Q000

‘REPRODUCTION
‘PRORICTED.

/ pee SECRET aan
Li. (than Fitted te)
Pz FIE| PERSONALITY (201) Fite Request

19 GEADQUARTERS, RI

FROM ef si e

INSTRUCTIONS:

Aesinnng
SECTION 11

PSEUDONYH

SECTION mi

HORS = oR ai Bite zat 2 RT a ST TT
Mole te te UssK ue Ochobar 194

Document Number

© for FOIA Review on RP e 1975

Bin '=2 f 22C¥
AW

10-87

0-02.26
gooures

2g)

EPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED



13-00000

SECRET REPRODUCTION
Se ROMIBITED

1. Commission Document 692 (portion dated 31 PRO!
1964) [Copy of FOIA No. 509-803]

2. Letter sR REPD) ated 25 October
1960, to RREPR GRE

3. Department iB fis fay SIFIED), dated
31 October 19. OHS TE

4. Memorandum as tt Tee > ited 6 March 1964;

Subject: Information in CIA's Possession Regarding
Lee Harvey OSWALD Prior to November 22, 1963.

5. Note from Richard HELMS to J. Lee RANKIN, dated
6 March 1964.

6. Memoraridum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 6 March 1964;
Subject: Information in CIA's Possession Regarding
Lee Harvey OSWALD Prior to November 22, 1963.

[FOIA No. 590-252]

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

SECRET


13-00000

; REPRODUCTION

PROWIGITED

Y-1224

XAAZ~2QSIST

o Mar 4

MEMORANDUM FOR:, Mr, J. Lee Rankin
SUBJECT: -.., ° ” Information in CIA's Possession
° Regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD
Prior to November 22, 1963 22 Tranzmitheot
jal

te Wareen Commins ion

U

1, This refers to your letter of February 12, 1964
addressed to the Director of Central Intelligence which has
been passed to me for reply,

of

2. Paragraph three of your letter requested the Agency
to supply the Cornmission with a report on information in the
Agency's possession regarding Lee Harvey CSWALD prior to
Movember 22, 1963, The request was predicated upon the
footnote on page two of CIA's report to the Commission dated
31 January 1964, entitled: Information Developed by CIA on
the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 23 Sepe
tember - 3 October 1963",

3. There is attached aa exact reproduction of the
Agency's official dossier on Lee Harvey OSWALD beginning
with the opening sheet dated 9 December 1960, The entire
dossier carries the security classification of Secret ami
consists of thirty documents arranged in chronological order.
Cn the basis of clearances from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Department of State, the Department of
Navy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who
were queried by us after the receipt of your letter, we are
able to make available exact copies of all materials in the
file up to early October 1963, These include:

920-258

Document Nur

DGi- DITILAT
brs G Mar bt

Go0U7E9

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

a, Seven documents received from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation,

b, Ten documents received irom the Department
of State,

¢,” Two documents received from the Department
of Navys.*

@ One document {a name check request) Zrom the
“Innmigration and Naturalization Service,

©, Four newspaper clippings,
f, Five internal CIA notes,

g- CIA report dated 31 January 1964 te the Commission
which covers all substantive developments affecting CIA
in the matter of Lee Harvey CSWALD from 9 October to
22 November 1963, The report indicated the disseminations
of information developed by GIA that were made to other
Federal agencies during that period. This item, as was
pointed out at the time, is particularly sensitive and bears
appropriate sensitivity indicators, H

4, You will note that almost all of the documents carry
markings required for CIA's internal records processing, A
few of the papers contained the names of our'employees or
identifications of specific organizational components, We have
taken the liberty of blocking aut these: Items as they do not bear
on the substance of the Commissionts request.

Richard Helme
Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment |

Original & 2 » Addressee 26/CI/sIc .
1 DDP Subject 4+ C/CI/R&A ib
1 - DDP Chrono pqpy 1 - C/WH/3

Ll C/CI wo YUE! y , 2014289248 |
CI:RGR occa:de/7468/4 March 1964 (Inventory of documents contained i
in file attached for all but a€fressee) 2O1~23T 249



13-00000 -

REPRODUCTION
| PROMIBITED

Inventory of Documents Contained in OSWALD Dossier Forwarded
to the Commission

» Jl. State Telegram No, 1304, October 31, 1959 (Confidential) a
- «#2, Newspaper Article from the Washington Post, November 1, 1959

> v v3, CI/LSN Internal Note dated 2 November 1959 (oral FBI name
check request)’ and NR reply dated 4 November 1959 (Confidential)

* Ha, Foreign Service Despatch 234, November 2 1959 (Confidentiany /
+ A, State ‘Pelegram 1358, November 9, 1959 (Confidential) ¥
. v6, State Telegram 1448, Novernber 9, 1959 {Gonfidential) oo
» “1, Newspaper Clipping from Washington Post, November 16, 1959
+ 8, Newspaper Clipping from Evening Star, November 26, 1959

- v9, DBF 49478, 25 May 1960 (Confidential)

+» 20, Internal CIA Biographic Profile dated circa” May 1960 (Confidential)

+ “ll, ‘Letter from the Department of State (Cumming) to DDP (Bissell)
, siatet October 25, 1960 (DD/P 0-5679 ~ Secret)
ded Vinton.
y+ 12, DDP Response to cess aL November 1960 (DD/P 0-603 -
Secret)

- “A3, Internal GIA Request for Opening of 201 file, 9 December 1960
(Secret) ae

«/14, State Memorandum of Conversation dated January 26, 1961 (OU0) /

«45, State Instruction A-273, April 13; 1961 (0U0) 7
~ +6 Foreign Service Despatch 806,:May:26, 1961 (OUO)

« AY, Foreign Service Despatch 29n0uy 11, 1961 (QUO)

~- 18, DFBJ2181, July 13, 1961 (Goafidentialy -
eS

ATT. | te XAAZ-gasr7s 8S COPY
Qor- 23ST

REPRODUCTION
| PROAIBATED



13-00000

v 19,
720,
+ fal.

S22,

+ A23.

“ C2de

v 25,
+26,
» 27
vy +23,

vy 72%

» Ao

REPRODUCTION
POTD

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

XAAZ- 22575
G May ot

Internal GIA Memo for the Record, 23 September 1961 (Secret)
Foreign Service Despatch 317, October 12, 1961 (ovo) Vv
I&NS Name Cheek Request, December 5, 1961

Navy. Mesaage 20197/RB/3, 3 March 1962 (Confidential)
DNA.1624, 26 April 1962 7

Newspaper Clipping from Washington Post, June 9, 1962,
DBA 20883, September 7, 1962 (Confidential)

DBA 51407, 10 September 1963

DBA 52355, 24 September 1963

DBA 55715 (number unclear), November 7, 1963

DBA 55777, November 8, 1963

CIA Summary Report on Activities of OSWALD. in Mexico City,
dated 31 January 1964

3 S09

a2e

DOV- 2IT2AER



REPRODUCTION

Sheng’ sMotl€ you pease be good enough ‘to tele~
hone me on Monday, 9 March, by which time I
assume you'will have had an opportunity to

at this material,

* ‘Abtachnent

sett 3101 irc ney oem, 105 108

REPRODUCTION
PRORATED

sates tee nt



. REPRODUCTION
“ eo PAOHTED.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

6 - MAR 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr,.“J, Lee Rankin

-Regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD

SUBJECT: Information in CIA's Possession EB
“Prior to November 22, 1963 «Bes

1. This:xefers to your letter of February 12, 1964
addressed to the Director of Central Intelligence which has =
been; assed to me for reply, =
wad

0%, Paragraph three of your letter requested the Agency sare
tg pupply the Commission with a report on information in the
Agency's possession regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD prior to
November 22, 1963. The request was predicated upon the
footnote on page two of CIA!s report to the Commission dated
31 January 1964, entitled: "Information Developed by CIA on ae
the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 Sep- seal
tember = 3 October 1963", oS
3. There is attached an exact reproduction of the pres

Agency's official dossier on Lee Harvey OSWALD beginning ,
with the opening sheet dated 9 December 1960. The entire i
dossier carries the security classification of Secret and t
consists of thirty documents arranged in chronological order,
On the basis of clearances from the FederalBureau of f
Investigation, the Department of State, the Department of ‘
Navy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who
were queried by us after the receipt of your letter, we are
able to make available exact copies:of ali materials in the
file up to early October 1963, These-include:

CLASSIFICATION, pea

By autho: A Lt. bpahe SS

| | | 6900794
| REPRNOUETION DYE Ste1
|



13-Q0000- ,.

CLASSIFICATION CAI a
By authority of: Ck. hfe. PP “fl

Gv bth

REPRODUCTION
purely Seren domuments received from the Fea MAMET EM)

b. Ten documents received from the Department eS
of State.
¢. Two documents received from the Department
“2 of Navye
‘4 d. One document (a name check request) from the

Immigration and Naturalization Service,

use, Four newspaper.clippings,

£, Five internal CIA notes.

ge CIA report dated 31 January 1964 to the Commission
which covers all substantive developments affecting CIA
in the matter of Lee Harvey OSWALD from 9 October to me
22 Noveinber 1963, The report indicated the disseminations
of inforrnation developed by CIA that were made to other
Federal agencies during that period. This item, as was
potted out at the time, is particularly sensitive and bears
‘appropriate sensitivity indicators,

i
f

4

4, You will note that almost all of the documents carry
markings required for CIA's internal records processing, A
few of the papers contained the names of our employees or
identifications of specific organizational components. We have
taken the liberty of blocking out these items as they do not bear
on the substance of the Commission's request,

Drobo —

Richard Helms
Deputy Director for Plans

ry

Attachment
NCELED

R

co0u795

REPRODUCTION =
“PRORIBITED :



13-00000

_ REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

Sains

Departine of State iS
35
Action . Controt: 20261
PPr . Rec'd: OCTOBER 31, 1959
FROM: MOSCOW 7:59 AM.
Info
fe 10: Secretary of State
H No: !304, OCTOBER 31, 1 P.M.
INR
, EUR
P FOR PO

a EX. OSWALD, UNMARRIED AGE 20 PP 1733242 ISSUED

EPT 10, 1959 APPEARED. AT EMB TODAY TO RENOUNCE AMERICAN
SCS CITIZENSHIP, STATED APPLIED IN MOSCOW FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP
a FOLLOWING ENTRY USSR. FROM HELSINK! OCT 15. MOTHER'S

D ADDRESS AND HIS LAST ADDRESS US 4936 COLLINWOOD ST.,

a FORT WORTH TEXAS. SAYS ACTION CONTEMPLATED LAST TwO
0s9 YEARS. MAIN REASON "I AM MARXIST". ATTITUDE ARROGANT
NAVY AGGRESS !Vi.4.. RECENTLY DISCHARGED MARINE CORPS. SAYS HAS

OF FERE.
ENCTS?

SOVIETS AI
ED. RADAR _OPERATO!

ORMATION.

IN VIEW PE Ll CASE We PROPOSE DELAY EXECUTING RENUNCIATION
UNTIL SOV! ACTION KNOWN OR DEPT ADVISES. DESPATCH
FOLLOWS. PRESS INFORMED.

FREERS
JR
UNLESS “UNCLASSIFIED”
Conan REPRODUCTION FROM THIS
a) COPY IS PROHIBITED.

. D-02751

i GeGbreg
| REPRODUCTION
; PROWIBITED =

8 oti S4_
Rn eae



13-00000

|
\°

REPRODUCTION
Liars lire

i DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE DIRECTOR OF INTELLIGENCE ANO RESEARCH
_, NASHINGTON

OCT 25 1960

Poet _ Dear Dicks

Our efforts to answer recent informal inquiries, including some

‘from the White House Staff, have revesled that, though GIA and the
:. FEE have detailed records concerning Americans who have been recruited
ae intelligence agents by Bloc countries, there does not appear to be
a complete listing of thosc Americans now living in Bloc countries

who might be called "defectors". Using the definitions of DCID h/2,
_ these persons might be described as those who have either been
capable of providing useful intelligencé to the Bloc or those whose
desire to resettle in Bloc countries has been significantly exploited -:
for communist propaganda purposes. This would mean that no attention
need be paid to Americans whose resettlement within the Bloc had no
counter-intelligence implications or had attracted no particular *., |
attention; for instance, this definition would not cover individual
US citizens of East Buropean or Chinese origin who retumed to the
"homeland" because they had never been completely assimilated into
‘the American society.

Thera is attached a list of such persons, covering the lest 18
months, and it would be appreciated if the Agency could verify and
possibly expand this List for the use of interested Bureaus of. the
Department. :

“Attachments
“\" tist of American "Defectors"
from May 1959 ~ October 1960.

Mr. Richard M. Bissell, Jr. on oat vhs
Deputy Director, Plans, oho aM
Central Intelligence Agency. ; :

" : o _ SECRET

PROG Sm



13-00000

[

EPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

R

Lites deat th

CONPEDENTIAL

lie 1s), Morris and Mollie BLOCK, living in the USSR, and Possibly,” i
_ 1. | Communist China, since the fall of 1959. i
26) David DuBOIS (aka DUPZBOY), living in Peiping since May “ q
“1960, but may have returned to the U.S. Bon af
3.) Sgt. Joseph DUTKANICZ, U.S. Army, defected to East German .
Forces about the spring of 1960. ‘
l.) Sgt. Erie F. FLETCHER, U.S. Army, defected to East German ‘ J
- . Forces in June 1959 and stated that he wished to remain in ‘
East Germany at a confrontation held on August 5, 1959 i
(CINCUSAREUR telegram SX 5307 of O617hL2 August).
5.) Sgt. (fnu) JONES, U.S. Air Force, defected in mid May 1960
to East German Forces (Air Intelligence Information Report
: number 1430223 of August 9, 1960.) >
6.) William MARTIN, NSA employee. . a
‘ 7.) Bernon MITCHELL, NSA employee.
i". 8.) Zee Harvey OSWALD, tourist. y
b'" 94) Idbero RICCLARDELLE, tourist. G vat
_ 10.) Pvt. Vladimir SLOBODA, U.S, Arm, defected to East Gorman
i Forces in the spring of 1960 5
11.) Robert Edward WEBSTER, tourist, (see New York Times artic te
: of October 20, 1959). i
Bruce Frederick DAVIS, U.S. Army, defected. to East German’

Forces, August 19, 1960 (Babasey Moscow telegram 1032 ots
October 22, 1960

CONFIDENTIAL

PRODUCTION
PROMISED



13-00000 . = -
|

_ REPRODUCTION

31 Janvary 194

Information Develo:
Lee Harvey ©
28 September = 3 Octcber 1963

i, OSWALD!s Activity in Mexico City

tho'feflowing information from a reliable and proven source:

An American otced Lee OSWALD had contacted

" Op-9”October the CIA Station in Mexico City received

PRONIBITED

‘|

5

the Sovict Embassy in Mexico City on Tuesday, 1 Octobes

1963, He hed spoken in halting Russian to the Soviet
Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV, to whom
he said he bad visited the Embassy two days earlier,

Saturday, 28 September. Ho asked whether there had

been a reply to & telegram that tho Consul with whom he

had spoken, but whose name he could not recall, had
promised to oend to Washington, OBYEDKOV had

attempted to establish the ientity of the Conau! with

whom OSWALD had talked: if xi had beena dari 2zson,

then it had probably been Kos IOV, OBYEDKOV,
>

oF

z os Re

Document Nunber COPY OF SOF -803

REPRODUCTION". “™ [Se

Commies Beem”

TA? 347]

. PROG ISITED .G00U929 Sr ep

of 154


13-00000,
|

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

after a chock with Sovict Consular personnel, assured

OSWALD the telegram had been sent to Washington but

no answer had been received,”

Tho information was forwarded by cable to CIA Headquarters

the same day it was received,

2, <A file checkin Washington which is routine in those

matters:rovéaléd the possibility of an identity between the Lee

OSWALD who had spoken with OBYEDKOV, and presumably

with KOSTIKOV, and the defector returnoe, Lee Harvey OSWALD,*

cable the report in substantially the form and in the detail

3, On10 October 1963 CIA Headquarters disseminated by

indicated above, in paragraph 1, to the Federel agencies whose

jurisdictional interesta had been established by a review of

OSWALD's file: the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Depart~

# The GIA file on Lea Harvey OSWALD was opened on 9 Decomber
1960 to accommodate biographic information developed by CIA in
response to an inquiry from the Department of State ona list of
American defectors in Soviet Bloc countries, OSWALD!s was
among the names in the list, Tke Department of State inquiry
was dated 25 October 1960, An interim reply was given by CIA

oa 3 November 1960; a final reply, »

2b November 1980, Usti

eczly October 1963 the contents«of fis OSWALD file held by CIA

cons

ted entircly of press matcsig#s and disseminctions

_received from the Department of State, the Federal Bureau of

Investigation, and the Navy Department, :

EPRODUCTION

PRORISTTED



13-00000

: REPRODUCTION
ish IBITED

xnont of State, the Navy Departmoat, and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, A comment was included in the report
noting the likelihood that the object, ee OSWALD, was

- probably identical with the former Marine who had defected to

the Soviet Union in 1959. (The report disseminated by CIA in

Washingtoa-on 10,08tcber also included a physical dese:

os
of anindividtal who was believed to have been the OSWALD who
Neg eo

hadyeSatacted the Saviets in Mexico City, It was cubsequestiy

esteblished by investigation that the deséription did not pertain

to OSWALD,)
4, Onthe same day, 10 Cctcbor 1963, CIA Headquarters Res
sent a lengthy cable summary to the Mexico City Station of the :

background information held in tho Headquarters! file on

OSWALD, An instruction was inchiled for the Mexico City: ‘
Station to pass the substance of its 9 Cctober report to the local
representatives of the same Federal departments and agencies
that had been given the information in Washington, ‘Thia

instruction was immediately carried’ ote In this manner tho

information on OSWALD!a contct with the Soviets on 1 Octcber
was passed in Mexico City to the Embassy, the FBI representative
the Naval Attache, and to the office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, There were no requests from rec:

the report for further information or for follow-up investigation,



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

5.

Aitex the assassination of President Kennedy and the

arrest of Leo Harvey OSWALD, am Intensive review of all =
available sources was undertaken In Mexico City to determine —
the purpose of OSWAED's visit. It was learned that OSWALD

had alse vielted the Cubsn Consulate la Mexico City and had

talked thesa.wlth a clerk, a Mexican national, named Slivis Ee

Bat, After the assassination and a publicity about Lee

‘Siri, Slvia DURAN had told a nuraber of relatives and
fylonda that she had talked to OSWALD about a Cuban visa.

Silvia DURAN and hex husband, Horazio DURAN Navarro, wera

Ed
Es

F

detained and questioned by the Mexican police frora 23 to 25
November 1963.

6 After giving some of the details of her own personal

%

background ~ she is an adraitted Leftist sympathizer and bad»

formerly worked for the Mexican-Cuban Institute of Cultural

Relations ~ Silvia DURAN said. that whon sho first heard of the”
death of President Keanedy she had been deprossed and. thought

the assassin must have been a maniac, When: ine learned that

ho was associated with the "Falr Play. 168 Cuba Commliteo"

she did not belleve it,

7. She talked about the Sgro hor husband and whea che

heard the name of Lee OSWALD mentioned, she recognized it as

4d WAS
a. SENSITIVE SC
: herinn

| PROUISTTED a

REPRODUCTION cp Aah

GdUU932



13-00000 SBboee : fo Lepage

_ REPHODUCTION
| PROBIRITED

the man who had come to the Constlate about two months before

to get a visa to transit Cuba o: a Way to the USSR. She

EARS

yealised that he had saidéiS was married to a Rusolan and that
. ee. .
he had bolonged to'the-"Fair Play for Cuba"! group. She checked

her file omhiny in the Consular archives and from the desciitive

dgim; ‘she was suro it was the same man, He was short, blond,
ah

paerly dressed and his face got red when he talked. He was

Bate

denied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have a Soviat
visa, and he was told to get tho Sovict visa first, but it was noted

that this would take about four months. She had asked the Cuban

aa

Consul himseli, “Euseblo AZCUE, to talk to OSWALD and they

had an argument when AZCUE urged OSWALD to leave Mexico

instead of waiting there. The Consul had phoned the Soviet Con~

sulate and talked to the person handling OSWALD's case, who Pr
had said it would take about four months to hear from Moscow ee
about the Soviet visa. The same afternoon, OSWALD had come” re
back again and she had told him the same thing. “Shg'gave r 2
OSWALD'a alip of paper with ker name and. telephone number on re

: oe a,
it in caso he ever got his Sovict.visa. He did not call back, she sald.

7

8. Silvia DURAN's nustigae Horacio DURAN Navarro, gave

essentially the same story, as he had previously heard it from

[Ere

his wifo aitor the assassination. He had never had any porsoaal

contact with OSWALD.

{
| REPROOUETION
{ PROMIEITED



13-00000,

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

w Dod
9. Silvia DURAN was reinterrogated by the Mexican police

from 27 to 29 Noveraber but she did not change or add materially A
oe

to hor story about OSWALD, are

10, It is known that the Cuban Ambassador in Mexico,

Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas, reported on the detainment and
i interrogation of Silvia DURAN by the Moxican authoritios, Tho . ea

Cubay Government seat the Mexican Government a stiff note of
ae Gover

cited,

PENSAR
protege?” which the Mexicans >ej

lovers har
ero,

11, . We are reliably informed that on 26% a, the

day after DURAN's release, Cubza President DORTICGS queried

HERNANDEZ about his report, HERNANDEZ confirmed that
there had been an altercation between OSWALD and Consul
AZCUE, DORTICOS made a persistent but unsuccessful effort
to determine from HERNANDEZ whether the Mexican authorities
had questioned Mrs, DURAN about money, or thought that the
Cubans had paid OSWALD moxey,

12, ‘The CIA follow-up investigation produced the following
confirmed results which have a bearing on Mrs, DURAN!s account:

a, 27 September, ini safter noon, Silvia DURAN
4 ~

ike?
informed the Soviet Embass} that a male American citizen

had requested a visa to transit Cuba on his way to the

| REPanoUCTION |
PROBED ee



13-00000

poo REPRODUCTION
PRONIBITED

Soviot Union, She desired to know who the Amorican had

talked with at the Sovict Gonsiaeds Also, she indicated

that the Cuban Consulate could grant him the visa and

arrange immigration details if the concession of a Soviet

Liteon ge ak, Ritter

visa were assured,

= Be
be 27 September, Pursuant to her inquiry, Silvia fe
Des SESE :
Soran received a confirm=tion from the Soviet Embassy

that the American had been to the USSR installation, He

lad shown them 2 letter from the Soviet Consulate in
Washington indicating thet he had been long awaiting a

| :

4 visa for himself and his wife to go to the USSR. No
|

1

answer had come from Washington; however, the waiting
period was sometimes four or five months, The American
also had a letter attesting that he was a member of aio D

Cuban organization but he had claimed that the Cubans

would not give hima a visa unless ho hod affeady received

a Russian visa,

Although the American Mees still at the Cuban 7

Gonsulate, Silvia DURAN eepeated that she dould not give
~ * er”
him a transit visa unlec’” @ Soviet viea was forthcoming,

notwithstanding the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait



13-06000

REPRODUCTION
PROIBITED

there for his Soviet visa, According to DURAN, tho

“
Amorican know no one in Cuba and sho intended to

appropriately annotate thé American's card, The Soviet
official echoed-her statoment that the Amorican was not

Imown,
ae
at the Cuben Embassy in Moxico City by the American

28 September, Silvia DURAN was again visited

Ez

secking a Cuban transit visa, Mrs, DURAN contacted at if

least two members of the Soviet Embassy and facilitated =
2 direct conversation between one of the Sovicts and the aad
American, Conversing in poor Russian, the-American .

stated that he already bad beon to the Soviet Consillate

and had loft anaddresa, The Sovict official replicd that : ha

” he was aware of that, The American suggested that he

had not Imown his address then, and he had gone to the®
Cuban Embassy to ask for the address, becausetiicy had
it, The American thea acceded to the Sovlét officiate
invitation to come by and give chore tie address,

4, 1 October. In mid yeitrntag an unidentified
individual, speaking peoken’ ‘Russian, contacted the Sovict

Military Attache in Mexico City. He said he had been to

REPRODUCTION
~ PROMIBITED


13-0000.

REPRODUCTION
PROTIBITED

the Embassy tho previous Saturday (28 September) and

hed talked with a Consul who had,said they would cond a aa
7 telegram to Washingto: 4:8 there beena roply? He a
was referred to the Gonowlite for the information. A

These additiongasiiatey'als were promptly disoominated in

Washingt#a Sy the CIA to the White House, the Department of a

sai bud the Federal Bureau of Tavestigation, =
e. 1 October, See peragreph ] above for Lee

OSWALD!s contact with the Soviet Conaulate, :

i

I, Voloriy Visdimivovich KOSTIZCV sence

13, It ia believed that the Soviet oficial with whom

OSWALD dealt in Mexico City was Consular Attache Valeriy
Viedimirovich KOSTIKOV, born in Moscow, 17 March 1933, °
A photograph of KOSTIKOV is attached, In his letter of

9 November to the Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSWALD

wrote about bis "meetings with Comrade KOSTIN (sic) of tB&
Soviet Union in Mexico City, Mexico," There is ne-éificial

of the Soviet Embasey in Mexico City with anime ‘resembling

14, KKOSTIKOV is the sent
=

a : PROMIBITED _ : 6000937



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

matters, There is firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIXOV

is 2 Soviet State Security (KG) cificer, and the other four Consular Ee
officers are also knowa or stronzly-e@pected to be Soviet Stats :
Sccurity personnel serving unde official cover, ‘The State Security
Service is the major cf #88 Soviet intelligence services ard it is a
charged with espicdage, counterintelligonce and related matters : =
Incilo the sevice Union and overseas,
< It must be clearly stated that Soviet intelligence and
scour} officers placed abroad under official cover normally —=
are required to perform the routine and legitimate business ie
demanded by the cover job in an embassy or conaulato, —_
16, KOSTIKOV wes first cpotted as 2 KGB man because
of his travels around Mexico, his habitual association with known
KGB officers, and because consuls, in Sovist practice, are -
usually KGB men, :
17, KOSTUKOV is believed to work for Department thictien
of the Firat Chief Dizectorate of the KGB, It is the Department
responsible for executive action, including sebotage and.assassi~

nation, These functions of the KGB are known. within the Service

iteelf as “Wet Affaire" (mokryye dela). Tho: Thirteenth Department

headquarters, according to very

information, conducte

RageaD
~
interviews or, as appropriate, file reviews on every foreign ——



13-00000 - ae rd eg aby ee

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

any
milltory defector to the USSR te stvly ond to determine the
possibility of utilizisg the defector in his country of ovigin, ew
pee

18. An intensive review of the files of our Mexico City
- Station was undertaken immediately-after the assaacination to

comb oct eny previously umcpozted information about KOSTIKOV!s

19, A close observation was maintained on the Sovict

personnel, KOSTIKOV in particular, for days efter 22 Novembex, —
Nothing unusual or out-of-pattern waa noted in the activity or =

movements of the Soviet personnel,

- 20, It is of parenthetic interest, however, that the Sovict
Ambassador, when he made his call of sympathy on the American
Ambassador, 23 November, was accompanied by! two ranking
intelligence officers who are in the Soviet installation under
ciplomatic cover. One is known to be froxa the State Security

Service and the other is an identified Soviet Gernal Staff

Intelligence (GRU) officer,

Tl, Monctary Payment to COWALD ~ Investigation of Allegation
21, On26 November 1965 Ayypung Nicaraguan named

Gibsrte ALVARADO Ugarte walked into the U,S, Embassy in

REPRODUCTION
OD



13-00000.

M

o City ana claimed ho had beoa in the Cuban PROHIETTED ge

Mexico City on 18 September 1963 when a man he Inter recognized

_

to be Lee OSWALD had been given $6, 500 ia cash to kill aomeoac,
ALVARADO was knowa to CIA as a former informant of a Central

American security service and to have been used to penet=ate
a,

communist guerrilla groups, He said thot-he was in Mexico

Gity still working for his service, trying to get himself accepted
by the Cubans as 2 communist co they would take him to Cuba for

guerrilla training, ALVARADO clearly was a trained intelligence

agentaighhe'wes able to describe people and locations well, He ca
sua =
had apperently visited the Cuban Embsosy and its Consular offices :
on a number of occasions and he correctly identified some twenty
Cuban Embassy and Consular employees,
22, While intensive investigation inthe United States

a

showed that OSWALD could not possibly have been in Mexico

City on 18 September (he was known to have been in Néw’Grleans b

on both 17 and 19 September), intensive interrogation failed to
shake ALVARADO!s story, However, the Central American
service for which he claimed to be acting,, denied that he was

still working for them.



13-00900. .

ALVARADO over for further interrogation, At firct,
persisted in his story, but oa 30 November he finally admitted
in a signed statement that he had fabricated the whole incident
of scoing OSWALD in the Cuban Consulate being paid to kill

somcone,

retracted his conféssion, ‘claiming that it had been extorted

under threat of extreme duress,

“. 25,> Under ordinary circumstances CIA would havo dise

Bigirded this retraction, But because of the importance of

rosolving the problem GIA personnel continued the interrogation
in close coordination with the FBI, ALVARADO voluntarily
agrced to a-lie detector examinztion, A CIA polygraph expert,
assisted by en FBI opecial agent, requestioned ALVARADO and
secured admissions that he must have been mistaken, The CIA
polygraph expert conciuded from tho results of hia tests that ~
ALVARADO had fabricated his story about OSWALD ia toto,

26, It should be noted that when he firet-told his story

on 26 November, ALVARADO could have known from the

Mexican prese that oswatiije visited the Cuban Consulate

tee
.

[BE

REPRODUCTION
23, On28 November 1968, the Mexican police ‘PROUBITED S

REPRODUCTION
PROGSIMED ~~

i



13-000!

there that OSWALD had $5, 000 with him whoa he returned fzom ea
Mexico to the United States. ALVARADO has since been deported .
by the Mexican authorities to his native Nicaragua, A
ert: ae) =
. ee .
we =
Attachment - photograph send

ip REPRODUCTION: °°
= PROMIBIMED.~ =~

GoUGS42



1. Four cards regardi:
Marina OSWALD (Watch List)

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED

3 &

EPRODUCTION
PROBIBITED SECRET

/ SECRET
TABLE OF CONTENTS
rvey OSWAL!

REPRODUCTION

, - ROREATTED


—_ . REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

_—
; or/SiG/Beerter
“OSWALD, Lee Harvey war GGG Perron
Minsk, USSR 7 August, 1961 /2~2F f
. . p-3e
DOB: 18 October 1939 oe
POB: New Orleans, Louisiana © ~ °
Defected to Russia 1959
17 August 1900 received: undesirable dischargé
| from U. 8. Marine.,Yorps Reserve
| Reportedly expresses .adesire for return to the US under
4 certain Fenced :
© -
: me 7
— j ‘ i
eee Dalai 2x mey or i
as ce ,
+, OSWALD, Marina 26. Nov 63 4
Box 2915 CI/Project/RE
. Dalles, Texas was % 4

Wife of late Lee Harvey OSWALD. e a
esArdis~ 63EA20 Fi = t

}
cee rorter, Norene

»3J0943

Repropucrion “1 a
PROGIBITED pp cele



. a | REP OOUCTHOR

PROMIBITED

‘
«
‘ ‘ ' :
an’ ia eine Nish s ae ~
PORTER, Marina Prusxova“Oswald 29June1965
Box 2915 ¢ jl GI /Proj/PH
Dallas, Texas ee
Xt ;
Subje@t is the wife of the late Lee Harvey OSWALD; :
| recently married to Kenneth Jess PORTER, 27 year old
| Texans electronics technician. They were married {
in early June 1965 in Fate, Texas. on
rE tek
4 Soa Se See
a Pietefedd by tl. ff <n
pia oe or - : 4
. ‘
° Boge

REPRODUCTION :
PROKIBITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

1, Blind Memorandum, dated 27 November 1963; Subject:
Lee Harvey OSWALD.

SEDRET
TABLE OF CONTENTS

2. Transcript of telephone conversation between O'NEAL
and PAPICH at 0915 on 27 November 1963.

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

2g

EPRODUCTION stoner
PROMIBITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
gfQntl PROMIBITED

27 Novenber 1963

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD

At 0915 hours on 27 November, Mr. ee FBI Liaison Officer, called
to furnish in part such snzomaatson ad bas been able to acquire concern-

er Se
ing the requests wena ue \gpt ‘teletype DIR 84951 on 25 November.
Sy) =~

a ecm relate to the extent of
AA)
information which SS? ne red from OSWALD prior to his death,
N)
Mr. Papich advised that jureau is informed by the police (see notes)

With reference to paragraph E, vhich deals with the question of when the

With reference to,

Subject left New Orleans and the identifying background information concern-

tne ur irs. PAINE and the station wagon driven by Mrs. Paine when she drove

the wife and child from Mew Orleans to Texas, he stated that the Bureau
is working on that matter and he mey have some information today.
Mr. Papich was advised that the Bureau is working on a matter of any

information concerning the wife's denLingeayise the Soviet Eubassy in
ix

Washington about visas to return eee Somiet Union. He also stated that

amy ye

the wife is being interred joe. sueepions were put in para F of the

ey

os )

mentioned Serer ee) me gabteee eg Ja receive subsequently a

teletype response but — RP ne mow at thse stage vhat he had.
Mr. Papich emphasize that there are all kinds of reports coming in

from all kinds of sources - "everybody except the North Pole." He felt

that ell of us have to keep our feet on the ground. He mentioned that a

report is being prepared by the Bureau and it wes hoped that it could be

gotten out today and delivered to Mr. Katzenbach after which there would

be a decision made as to whether it would be publicized and this decision

wld be made by the President.

Birch D. O'Meal
C/cI/sic

6001723

REPRODUCTION SECRET Caer We
PROMBITED

0-07-76!



13-00000

‘Telesuone Coaversation cetween Mr. O'Neal and Mr.

P

Mr. Papich: On questions A, B, C, D - he vas 25t

O'neal: He left therectie oe 3 Ss

~<GRET PROBITED

~ Ory
ich at etd 27 November 1963

nok

We have been told the velice- aa’ ee we finally got access to bin

and with the tine given.us: apt. thea’ ve questioned why the assassination
aa

and such, so We weren't given
authority to move in with Fetdiy so those questions vere not covered.
With regard to E - vrs}, Paine, etc., ve are working on that.
=a - we have some information for you on that indicating commmnication

‘etween him and the Embassy up there.

“The wife is being interrogated. I don't iow if that took place yesterds

or is still going on. You are getting a teletype answer on that. I am

just giving you a preview.

With regard to that, Nicareguan‘s, allegations that the man vas in the
Cuben Embassy on 18 September, I undérstand ve do have information that
he applied for a tourist card about the 15th of September. There is a
record showing entry into Mexico on Segtexber 26. On about the 15th he
applied in Nev Orleans for a tourist cai. We do knov be was in -

Pe

I may even have some later saggestiahsttn came in during the night -
yd

As you know, he was in 1a Gina te, whén the family left.
We

3 He was seen onthe sales “4 landlady said he skipzed during the night.

He was last seen by the ore Now ve have immigration records showing him

entering Mexico on the 26th which very strongly suggests that he was not in Mexico

on the 16th. what we are trying to find out is where he was every single day -

the 25th, 2ith, and all the way back. I think the Nicaraguen story is fabricated

myself.

REPRODUCTION


prone

- REPRODUCTION
ane PROHIBITED

Page 2 of telephone couversation
Papich-O'lNesl 27 Nov 63

~\ CN |
Onn: It looks like it but I guess it has to be run cut coupletely. H
> I understand he is not a very credible source and was duped by the

Bicaraguans. Well, that will be Aw anyway out it doesn't look gocd.

Bear ia mind that on the 25th og° SQ shat wrote aaa he skctpped out. i
OF course he may have | OA e don't know. os
ON: You don't have aA Gist Saaeeaa that he had money? a4
P On the con! Wiles 28 \3 s will all shape up quite accurately :

in the next couple kee . i
orm: I've got a note on one here ~ there have been a number of them going
over there during the night, Sam. I will give you some mmbers if you
want -
P; No, I'll let them take their course. They ere in the midst right now
in preparing a complete up-to-date report. They are documenting everything
taat took place from the beginning on through and they are probably going
to try to finish that today. I understend once it is finished KUEZENBAGE
takes it. Kitzenbach will take it and confer with coumitted agencies and
a determination will be made as to whether it will be made public or not.
I guess the President will decide that.

We are doing a report and we will en @ memorandum on that sometime

today. You will be over ne tts oe

Pr Very definitely.

O'N: We will give it to Jou < will mention it to you now. There is
a Dr. Jose Giullermo Aguifre of Mexico who has told a story to a USIA
officer on 26 November that a Marie Rodrigues de Lopex, widow of Lopez,

- had a son-in-law of hers who lives in Nev Orleans and vas well acquainted,

ae

REPROOUE Ton wa | wee
PROKISITED



13-00000

SEORET “REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

Page 3 |
|
i

with CSWALD. The son-in-law is a Cuban, sage Ngarisnes who lived at 212 Jefferson
PAS

SNS
Parish. That sounds like an incomplet Bas No
KAY

Papica: That's a county. Gi) qo)

ON aX \
ort: His teleghone Give BESS) ana this Rodrigues ARESTO runs a H
Spanish language school and is @QQHED. According to Maria Rodriguez, her -
conversations
son-in-law has taped converston-with OSWALD. -

Papich: That might be referring to - there is a tazed conversation - it's been
on the air and,has been publicized. There was a who did interview him on or
about the time he vas arrested. In fact the trenscript of thet interview appeared
in a newspaper there the other day.

orn: This might be the same tapes and maybe there is soue connection between
Rodrigues and the other guy who had them. But ve vill put this in @ mesorandum

and send it over to you.

Papich: Okay. Tell everybody to keep their feet on the ground. The Ambassador ee

dom there just vent nuts. This will all shape.nf\ It vould be premature to move

&
AE AYSY
awy \ D>,
OTN: It might have been all kn would find other confirming stuff.

Papich: We have still < ew f and investigate it but that

so quickly on that angle.

Anbassador down there - I 'd from everybody but the North Fole on it.

Ig you let yourself go you will go) orbit.

REPRODUCTION ca
PRORIBITED



13-00000

Papich:

O'N:

Papich:

oO

i +

between Mr. «

and Mr. O'ileal 27 Hov 63 at 10:

Toe last one sertains I,way find in our files here - I

think I can fai up with the same anslysis - that

is the all
oF

Both you and we

13th Dept in KGB. ve

Oa the basis of an analysis isn't it?

I think so. Is that all you have - the basis of an analysis - or do

you have anything more specific which vould pinpoint him as being a

menber of that dept.?

I think that. all stems fron ( /6/ cevrr)

Yes and Pete is familiar with mation. A}L I can do ia to call

Pate. Met

The boss has asked that “ae I want to heve that all right.

F think we sent a thing. « i Seen

; CSCI on that. ee d me to it - I will check on it.
oN
I am not god a oa elements.
No, keep it ri. Worrer and very simple.
GOUL7 27

REPRODUCTION ek
PROMIBTTED

REPRODUCTION
senna PROMIBITED



13-00000

. REPRODUCTION
SEGRET PROMIGITED

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. Transcript (in Spanish) of telephon rsation
betwe _ oe juis Seceeeamey and uniden ti fie, 2 is

2. Translation of above telephon

Mere sees “RERANT
PROIBITED

REPRODUCTION ——_seaner
PROGIBIMED


13-00000°

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

0-02 %A4
REPRODUCTION hg Ae Be

___ PROMIBITED ae


13-00000
° q

_ POTD

- REPRODUCTION re omer

C.,
: REPRODUCTION
oe PROIEITED

vory bad; that at first a.
who were egeinst integration that, but it seems tint they apprehended a type who
4s nothing more than the president of ong of the comittess of the Fair Play for
Cuba. LUISA: That she knew this also. EF: “Rat nothing has been coniroed yet, -

wut it seems,..that the one who did it, wad erasy, Inlependently of the foct that
‘this could have been sald sbout KEMEDY. "given, the international. onditions and
Foe 5

the internal conditions of
principally. HP: That's GP ee, fatpatiomay tt seemed quite affected
ant thay can't go through a aren cise, with a change of President or sonething
of that sort; above all, that...LUISA: Interrupts and asks if it was a gringo that
killed him and HF says yes, but said that he had been in Russia, and that he wanted
to becone a Russian ettizen, but Russia had not wanted to nationalize hin...

LUISA is surprised and says "Listen - they really imov things there!” HF: Yea:
that be Imove Russian very well and besides this type had ame with Fidel's forces
to the Slerra, or vanted to go, something Dike that - who knovs héw it was. LUISA:
atka what else she has learned and LUISA

Pretty serious. His Quite a bit,
says just about that, thet these Pit a Little vale ago and they are...
BP: That it's ell very body thet
the Revista Ponztion vite tea 6
news; aa motes Sis me ree TUISA: That she had

been looking at the wegazine, that the comrade hed brought it to her...HP: That

=) ting with sone friends and comenting on

etme out, when someone came and gave them the *

CCCLE44A

———
COPY NO. =



13-00000 ‘ iw

REPRODUCTION

oe Pere

tant £8 vas side dete Re

the radio; toate vat Ber Gs they learned ebout it; thet the last he had
heard, @ moment ago, was that type 18 one OSWALD, that it 12 belteved that
this is the one, ‘but he has not confessed anything... LUISA: Bit they already

imow that he speaks Russian and belongs tothe Pro-Cuba Committee: ‘that they

already Inov that he vautod to nattomtize jitsel?, but be has not confessed.
EF says sho 4e right, adding that tt coula et ‘they tried to find scme let's

a
sey solution fron him, repel DW afbeNtoting hia to mst w minste, asks him

to goon, HF: Wo 1S Gt 12:98 tat been oF - hed seened...public or had been
one. of the sogreentiontats oS\(puthet integration vho hot ited Kennody, then

there vas, let's say, the possibility that n sort of civil var would arise in the —
United States; that contradictions vould-to\gharsened, the critical. situation the

comtry 1s going through, then vo wefe ccamnting here, that they found a resolu-

tion in this type, no? Yore teGematticaty ey wit find it or it was trus,who
B : Sit

‘gibt and asta vist wttt tnypen. EP:

a and now, that makes three (she laughs).

knows; lat*a see vient Je
Who knows. LUISA: toy, aS
Hy: I think that it will be svopte of the day at that party of SILVIA's.
LUISA! They suspended it because they could not go. HP asks vhy, ant LUISA says
"go that after they can say that ve are the death of KENNEDY, then we

- cha vith SULTEA od she agreed to main: aod Ienro 18 rat next week, but tt

Ts st ct tee ne ‘ HF: Thnt has to be taken into ~~

CCCLE LS a .

repanouemm
_PRONIBITED _ aad



13-00000

=

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

HP: Olmy; he asks vhere she fi going to stay nov, and LUISA comments that now
she plans to move om Iolise of the doctor (rexale). HP asks if they

mow everything now, and rain Sys yes, Dut doesn't know hov the thing ts, or if
they will have to stay in the eubasey, hovever belidves tint today it will not be
possthle, becmise everyone bas gune to the sivyert and the eabessy bas no car,
hovever, possibly toarroy naming instead of going to the study circle, she will
nove. HF: Ten he wi call ber terrae TS o try the eabassy or at the
house, since if they vill not stay the SutsBay, ‘she will go hone where she will
be at about 10. EF x

CHESS

REPRODUCTION. ng tek

COPY NO. = >

_ PROHIBITED



13-00000 7 q pes &

| | _ REPRODUCTION
aes ~ og PRORIBITED

, ¢

EMBAJADA DD cubs’ 28

22 de nov. 6c
M 2h. L 2k
1556 -

002, pregunta por ROLANDO y NILDA informa ~-

que esté abajo, pregunta si quiere que lo liame y NICO dice

que sf. Luego NILDA edn 'NELA (empiezan a hablar en --
el niimero 017). NELDA:

ROLANDO salié un morients @ Jad

yié le diga a NICO -me parece que

ealle, pero que regresa en se

guida. ‘a NICO, dice que~
agie” Be venta los paquetes des... y que su-.

Sievar GUILLERKO. NILDAtque le--

era para ins

piera que se
<

presunte si ya estin envueltos. NELA asf lo hace y con-

‘testa que sf. NILDA: yue esté bueno.- 029.-

029. Salida al 45-91-; 21.-1632.- NICO solicita hablar con --
el Sr.CARNONA, MP AéinBorma que ya le tiene su, juego-
de juntas, pero no tienen-los anillos. Luego Dn. FSLIX

el mim.073) para indicarle —

det 38 Guntaa, que anillos no tiene y-
SS :
Java nota no encuentra que pieza es -

ot minor Sec arrtha®
porque no viene ened catdlogo. NICO:que mandaré pregun

tar alld para que le digan que cosa es eso;que pasard a re-
coger las juntas; pregunta si hay posibilidad de conseguir-
el juego de anillos y FELIX dice que sf, que los puede con-
seguir en Dr.Lucio 8 y les diga que va de su parte. NICO
toma nota y acepta.- 085.-
an ENN
089. Entrada 163%.- VICTORSRERNANDEZ pregunta a GUILLERMO -

RUIZ qué hay de nuevd: y) west ice que nada, pero hoy sale -

para La Habana

habrd notici@a’
a todos ane’

Gapive ¢ dentys de 5 dias, por lo que ya --

“MERNANDEZ acepta y pide salude-
SS
ep2iokey.- 101.

COLLEAT

‘REPRODUCTION oS hs
POT ak



13-00000
C

_ REPRODUCTICN
PROHIBITED

2 C-H24.-22 nov.63).-

i

nta a LEISA si ya sabe la ulti-
gor de burla, dice "sf, claro, me en-
UF sonrfe y conmenta que -
oso mk ene on en principie pensaren que habia sido —
uno de los oxNenistas reaccionarios que estaban en contra-

de la integracién y eso, pero parece que aprehendieron a un

tipo que es nada mds que el presidente de uno de los comités

del trato limpio con “uba. IVISA:yue de eso también ya
se enteré. HP iue soaiyia mo confirman nada, pero pa-
rece..... que el que, a haya hecho, estaba loco, indepen---

dientemente de mer ¥ bien Podia desvidrsele eso a KENNEDY

"digamos en 1:

3, dnternacionales y las condiciones
5 ny
OS
internas d@Bé tad,

pues...." LUISA: y externa
mds, principalmest HF: por eso te digo en lo Inter-
Macional .... Aon ver bastante afectada y no pueden --
sufrir un gran cambio, con un cambio de Presidente 6 con una
cosa de ese tipo; sobre todo que...- LUISA lo interrum
pe y pregunta si era gringo el que lo maté y HF indica que
si, pero dijo que habia geteao en Rusia, que querfa nacioria

Lizarse ruso, pero que ‘fusi@ no le habfa querido dar la na

cionalizaciém... ta
eémo alld sane igen, caress 1 cofio t *.
que adends éste tipo habfa ido con

* ypTsa se eorprende y dige*oye,

que sf;
que sabe ruséie Seuy biém.

aan tuerseQ gi

quien sabe como

>
W la sierra, 6 querfa ir, algo asi, --

como estaria la cosa. LUISA: que —
grave. HF: bastante;pregunta qué mds ha sabido por ahi-
y LUISA dice que casi precisamente eso, que hace rato se en

teraron y ya estdn..... Ne ane estd muy mal esof que -
: Ras

estaba comiendo con unos,

igds y comentando la Revista Po-

lo uno llegé y les dié la --

OMpAherOeesee HEtyue su ---

> ive mirando la revista, pues -

REPRODUCTION 8 ae ee
PROMOTED



. .¢ .
> REPRODUCTION
- a _PROBIBITED

",C.M24.-22 nov.63).-

13-00000. : ¢

a

amigo c:

mtd quo fs finbfa matado & mexicano que de repente

se habia dade. ea nga “sey oa Estados Unidos nos habfan qui-

séian hasta que les dijo que prendieran-
el radio; que lo hicieron y ahi se enteraron; que lo -~

dltimo que acaba de escuchar hace un momentito, es que ese~
tipo es un tal OSWALD, que se creé que éste sea, pero no ha
confesado nada... LUISA: pero que ya saben que habl,
ruso y que pertenece al Comité pro-Cuba; que ya saben que -
el tipo querfa nacionalizarse, pero el tipo no ha confesado.
HF le dé la razén, agreg gdh aque podrfa ser que trataran de

encontrar digamos una eién de ose tipo, porque.

LUISA después de pedds ‘te ‘pee ge espere un momentico, pide -

g ot ‘pensamos que si acaso hvbiera

sido 6 si . publica 6 que habfa sido uno ~

de los segr ome $ en contra de la interacién los -
an

que le diga.

2 OY
o a KENNEDY, entonces habia digamos, po-

que habfan.ases
sibklidad de que surgiera una especie de lucha civil. 6 gue-
rra civil en Estados Unidos; digamos que se agudisaran mds-
las contradicciones, la sitaacién critica por Ja que pasa ~
el pafs, entonces estabamos cowontando aqui, que encontraran

una resolucién de ese tipo no?, ya mds internacional; 6 -

lo van a encontrar 6 tude wto, quien sabe; pues vamos a -
ver que pasa. J \sonage y pregunaa qué pasard. -
HP: quien sabe. rate, uno, dos, tres y ya,~
ya son tres (sects a “pas baros 1 UF: yo creo que -

va a ser cl fee SWB ahora en la fiesta'esa de SILVIA.

LUISA:que la poopsibron poryue ellos no podfan ir. 5
0 HF pregunta por qué y LUISA dice "para que desy;ués digan _
queestamos celebrando la muerte de KENNEDY, entonces hablamos
con SILVIN y ésta acepté suspenderla y dejarla para la sema
na que viene, pero que no coigeiay con el entierro (se rfe)".

HFrque hay que tener en cuesta a0. LUISA:que serd — -

des,ués del duelo, del esas porquerias.

HF: okey; pregunta agaa

eS

mle a . ie

cory HO.._

PROWIBITED ca



13-00000 ~ 5 . . mh srk os

«| REPRODUCTION
oe

que ahord piensa Rae & noche Para la casa de la doc-

tora.

WO

que sf, pe, ;
quedar en 1: a sin embargo creé que hoy no serd
posible, porque ya todo mundo fué para el aeropuerto y no -

tiene coche en la embajada, sin embargo posiblemente mafiana

esté qa‘ cosa 6 si se tendr4n que-

en la mafiana en vez de ir al circulo de estudios, se mudard,
HP:que entonces le hablard mafiana. LUISA:yue la procure
en la embajada 6 en la casa, ya que si no se quedan en la--
embajada, se ird para su ¢; ayy en donde estardé como a las -

10. HF acepta.- ae

173. Entrada sess om

pugs de deck@X@ sae no std, indica que le pasé su recado y

ta por URBIETA y LUISA des-

URBIETA le dijo SOD Secordaba cual era su asunto y no --
sabia su teléfono. DURAN: que no tiene su teléfono,pues
unicamente tiene su direccién. LUISA pregunta cudl es-

su asunto y DURAN dice que es sobre el Mineral de RUTILO --
de parte del Ing.MONROY. LUISA: que llame mafiana, -
DURAN acepta.- 184,~ : i

184, Entrada.- Poors CONCEPCION y LITISA informa -
que anda por PRS guuerte --
tarde. wy

188, Entradas 7 EO a. 202.-

M-

REPRODUCTION cose gt
___ PROHIBITED ee



13-00000

secre REPRODUCTION
asus of coves PROMIBITED
1. ae telephone call to Soviet Embassy
* eee MT Sovies Babassy
fe [ee bcremnene cot o

4, Translation of telephone call from Soviet
Consulate to Cuban Consulate at 1626 hours
on 27 September 1963.

27 September 1963.

5. Transcript | (in Spanish) of above telephone
call.

6. Translation of telephone call from Cuban Con-
sulate to Soviet Consulate at 1605 hours on
27 September 1963.

7. Transcript (in Spanish) of above telephone
call.

8. Summary of telephone call made by Silvia DURAN
to Soviet Consulate at 1151 hours on 28 Septem-
ber 1963.

9. Transcript (in Spanish and English) of above
telephone call.

10. Telephone cali made by Lee OSWALD to Soviet
Consulate on 1 October 1963.

11. MEXI-6344 (IN 38854), 1 October 1963.

12. DIR-72527, 1 October 1963.

13. MEXI-6453, 8 October 1963 [duplicate of FOIA
No. 5-1A] (from Mexico City File)

14, DIR-74830, 10 October 1963 [FOIA No. 7-2]

15. MEXI-7055, 25 November 1963 [duplicate of FOIA
No. 89- -33] (from Mexico City File) Cover sheet
included,

16. ' wave. Ale? RODUCTION 1.10 of FOIA

No. 101-573] Cover sheet included (from Mexico
City File) RORIENT,
17. MEXI- 70875 [duplicate of FOIA

No. 24- 54} ROU WN, included (from Mexico
City File)

pepreoverion =
PROSIBITED


13-00000. S : é foe
- ~ REPRODUCTION

Rahs CB TOT

bok Lo.
(Chounttassiriep

ir ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 5
ilaaed ebonte Uy Ch ur ede a ee

‘SUBJECT: (Optional

a 610 “ime C] secret (] CONFIDENTIAL [[] [NIFRNAL = [7] UNCLASSIFIED
ee . ~ iia et

sg

EPROOUCTION a PASE (oF a3
_ PROGIBITED | ara

Ly


cans " REPRODUCTION
_ PROMIBITED

Se 1304, - . (4) |
Q (
i
t

28162  M.C.CHOADEN

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: 26 NOVEMBER 1963

°LTR: ~=COMMO SECRET FILE: 0593
3: CHRONO (DUMMY) SLASSIFICATION GPIDEAL P

Numeen

31 | DEFERRED
} ROUTINE

cr
7 MEX soe

1, AT THIS MOMENT STATION OFFICER AND LOCAL SECURITY i
OFFICER (WHOM HE CONTACTED) ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN }
i

WHO CLAIMS THAT ON 18 SEPTEMBER HE SAW LEE OSWALD RECEIVE ;

SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED. DOLLARS IN MEETING INSIDE CUBAN i

EMBASSY MEX. Be eet

2. REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE MEXI OPIM ANY TRACES

GILBERTO ALVARADO, BORN 3 JAN 1940 CIUDAD RAMA, CELAYA,

NICARAGUA, CLAIMS HE AWAITING FALSE MEXICAN DOCUMENTATION
PRIOR RECEIVING SABOTAGE TRAINING CUBA, SAYS JUAN LORILLO,

ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS FONSECA AMADOR ARE MEMBERS HIS

(COMMUNIST ?) ORGANIZATION NICARAGUA,

END FO MSG
COORDINATING OFFICERS
M.C.C, SECRET M.C.C, for W.C.C. D
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
OUTGOING

cclissa. pera :
REPRODUCTION — 7
PRORITED = RE


on inet

COMMENTS (Nom
9 whom, ote a nd tcl shor dh soma

pe 610m" C] secret ((] CONFIDENTIAL [1] {MTFRNAL = UNCLASSIFIED

REPRODUCTION eociess
_ PROMUETED fess wes

L



13-00000

_ * REPRODUCTION
| PROWIBITED.

DATE:
25 NOV 63 +

GrenaTions |
IMMEDIATE, spc

To

E,
. “NAVE 8149.
MEX DIR MEXI : ee

(, 1» ODFOAM ADVISED WAVE THAT PHONE CALL FROM ONE) JOSE SAN ANTONIO
Hake IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186334) TO DRe. EMILI UN! /PORTUONDO y
MIAMI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER 63... CONVERSATION WAS IN SPANISH
AND GIST OF IT Iss PLAN..OF CASTRO CARRIED. _ FORWARD 5 BOBBY IS NEXT.
SOON THE ATOMIC BOMBS WILL RAIN AND\, THEY WILL NOT KNOW FROM WHERE.

- WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS RE ‘SUBJECT 201-312304.

CABACAs HOWEVER, aMoT-2 ADVISED CABACA IS PROBABLY JOSE

ANTONI! a ISAINZ , DPOB CIRCA 1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CUBA. .
CURREN’ ¥ RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3000 AND HAS.SAME PHONE : -
No. PARA 1 ABOVE. HE 1S NOW OCCUPIED WITH OBTAINING MEXICAN VISAS »

FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUBA. HE IS PRONOUNCED BATISTIANO

AND RIGHTIST WITH TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN UseSe AND HEADS THE

ALIANZA PARA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICAs .
“3. LOCAL ODFOAM BEING INFORMED RE PARA 2 INFO. =~ . .

DUP oF f
(-573 |

25/2335 SE GBaktesion - 7

INCOMING

‘REPRODUCTION  cotLesa 0-07-14
__ PRONIBITED ; tie Yona



° PRODUCTION
PaORIBITED

Rn 1 conn TIAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

4
\
2g.

‘UNCLASSIFIED

‘SUBJECT: (Optional)

Se 610 "wie" C] secret (] CONFIDENTIAL [[] |AIFRNAL = 7) UNCLASSIFIED

COCLEES

REPRODUCTION — |
PRORISTED = Cen x 8s



13-00000

we " REPRODUCTION
. | PRORIBITED.

Tess 1304. ¢ a (4
RIGS MM. M.CHOADEN

DATE: 25 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE B=959> .

GPIDEAL

, €OMMO
* CHRONO (DUMMY)

L] OPERATIS

ROUTINE

IMMEDIATE DIR

RYBAT ve

1, MEXI DAILY "EXCELSIOR" OF 25 Nov IMPLYING OWN INVESTIGATIONS ©
RAN STORY DESCRIBING OSWLAD TRIP zo ‘MEXICO 26 SEPTEMBER THRU

3 OCTOBER. CROSSED BORDER, AT LAREDO. VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY

27 SEPT AND NEXT DAY. WENT TO SOVIET. EMBASSY. PURPOSE
ALLEGEDLY WAS TO OBTAIN visa SOVIET UNION, THIS NOT OUR LEAK,
CANNOT ELIMINATE GOBERNACION AS SOURCE. -

"2. FY PRESUME HQS IS AWARE OF AP STORY DATELINED HAVA lt
7 SEPT 1963. AT RECEPTION AT BRAZILIAN EMBASSY FIDEL CASTRO
IS QUOTED: "WE ARE PREPARED TO FIGHT THEM AND ANSWER IN KIND.

UNITED STATES LEADERS SHOULD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY . oF

ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS TO ELIMINATE THE CUBAN LEADERS,

THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE."

3. PARA ONE STORY WENT OUT ON AP TODAY. en f
END OF MSG Ay. a
COORDINATING OFFICERS:
stl 6e omen wcMalinForese
QUTGOING - .
GcliFsg

REPRODUCTION MEXL 1056
PROMIBIED = ee



13290000, _

7s “REPRODUCTION

ne :
ROUTING ~

en + Oe aes .
. BRF:. MEXI 6453 (IN De

LEE EENEY OSWALD “c201-259248), BORN 18 OCT 1939, NEW ORLEANS,
LOUISIANA, FORMER RADAR OPERATOR IN UNITED STATES MARINES
‘WHO DEFECTED TO USSR IN OCT 1959.. OSWALD IS FIVE ¥EET TEN
_ INCHES, ONE SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAR,
"BLUE EYES... = :

2, ON shoct 1959 = ATTEMPTED ‘TO RENOUNCE HIS UNITED»
STAaTZS CITIZENSHIP oo THR irre Seas EMB IN ‘WOSCOM,

POSTMARKED ©. i 3961’ EN WHICH SUBJ INDICATED
I= DESIRED RETURA O¥ HS DS PPT AS WISURD TO RETURN TO USA
TF "WE COULD COus TO SoMR' AGREEMENT: CONCERNING THE DROPPING

FY op ANY LEGAL, PROCEEDINGS "AGAINST UE:**, Mtns Cras alN clined

a ‘uowinoog

FSFTTGAS 10 sa0anrgy7a

ca

INITIATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE ENB won HIS “waFE To SEE ABOUT
Rae we sk 8 e924?
HIS RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT me ACTUALLY HAD
(0 10 (£63

APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATION AT

COORDINATING OFFICERS GROUP 4 (CONTINUED)
ASING OFFICER ue. AUTHENTICATING
ae ie aa
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. s+. Copy Now
6S cay; ele ated
Gol4E 59

| REPRODUCTION aw, oo

PROHIBITED Be ; wee DES

1


re * REPRODUCTION.
ne PROBIBITED

oa . CLASSIFIEQ MESSAGE ee

UNIT Noe B genet |& rou

Cg NO INoex -— ; :
TI FILE IN CEMRE NG) ~

9

FROM: DIRECTOR

DEFERRED“
ROUTINE }

_ 3 say, 1960 IN SgoRUSSTAN RADIO AND TY FACTORE I uISK
"WHERE, WORKED AS HETAL WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP, . “OSWALD WAS.
MARRIED ON 30 APRIL 1961 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A.
DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17 JULY 1941 USSR, NO HDQS TRACES,
HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE-TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE
COULD APPEAR AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW. _HIS AMERICAN PPT

; WAS RETURNED TO. Hi, [US MB DSCOW STATED TWENTY woNTES . Pea
OF REALITIES oF ‘LIFE. Be-SOrEET Cd EAD CLEARLY HAD WATURING

3. LATEST HDS | INFO Was opacn pesos fae MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD Is STILL CITIZEN AxD
BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT srare’

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GOl1E 58

REPRODUCTION
__PROAIBIMED ee



13-00000 .

a " ep wODUCTION
PADRE

i282
ROUTING

UNIT = INDEX

1S Pare ¢ see

or ONO INDEX

‘DATE = ~:
=

Les R QW 6

FROM: DIRECTOR Se

ea Ss WW

“cduie: = QY

, ODOATE, anD ODURGE. PLS KEEP
Rat ied ‘oR POSITIVE IDENT: CATION

spoke broken Bussian.said his name Lee Oswald © ..
(phonetic) stated he at. Sov Emb on 28 Sept when

spoke with Consul. He discussed sending a telegram - -
. to Washington. No Toca Dissemination had been made.

heap Gelcar Gin aragt)
ison/Roman “(in draft) Buz?

PG, rt (in draft)
TREES ora, Bk W [fool

wm/cors : J.C. KING

Py ADDP eoonoimatine OFricERS «|. crow i, “ GHED:.
i MELEASING OFFICER say la — AUTHENTICATING
SECRET ‘Seomarosiog on ‘OFFICER .

ak

CCCLES9

~ REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED eae


oe Feb eanmetto
PROWENTED

: i : (44)
st
hay
5 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
XT DATE: 8 ocr 1963,
MSTR como: Chronos. SECR
; . Sig
i | pererren | | priormy. ay

OO AWW”

HAD BEEN SENT.
a HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS BE AMERICAN ENTERING SOVEMB 1216 HOURS,

_
LEAVING 1222 ON 1 OCT. APPARENT AGE 35, ATHLETIC BUILD, CIRCA 6 FEET, RECEDING
Pn EE aay
HAIRLINE, BALDING TOP, WORE KHAKIS AND SPORT SHIRT. SOURCE: LIEVPIY.
3. NO LOCAL DISSEM. ° :

DUP OF

5 -I-A

COORDINATING OFFI ICERS

LADILLINGER . SECRET WCCURTIS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING 7 D- 02 167 . is a

Ceci EO

y

EZ)

EPRODUCTION
__ PROmIBI al) ES



; 7 eran iW

MEXI “2” GAVE CARA S05 ? 2 527

PEAUMEN cS COMMENT: ®RE CUBAN EXILE JULIC
ZUELA QP OFS ASBINET CA
RE AIDING LAK .

REF: WMEXI 630i (IN 26173

1. DASIC CS PCSITION- IS TO RLONDER ASSISTANCE ANY waivCwsiluc
GSGUP CARRYING FICHT TO casTRe. - JURE FALLS IN THIS CATEGORY wD CS

_UNTSRESTED Ii OYE &CT!

PROCUREMENT AE ULLL AS RECEIVING DRTALLS
THEAIOF. WHILE OBVIOUS: i, BO hor WISH WAVE L-2 INVOLVED IN ANY OVi2T
ERILS ACTIVITY, THERE NO ODJECTION L-2 R=EWDZRING PURELY COVERT
EIS OF3 UTILITY. 2mcc
LANIER CONTACT Bs MAINTALNED AND USS KEPT ADVISED.

2. JULIO LAWISR KOVIA VAS GHS C7 CRIGHNAL Memzes Etec wro-uniDa
CUSANA Hi GAILIO (aRIc0) Fou He 1063. SnIFIALLT HELD PcoiTicn
43 GOCRETARY FOR PROFEBSICIS . @pr 6235, PACH LITAWIL-4). NO

ASSISTANCE PROVIDED DOES NOT JZOPARVIZE

ee SOUTTLT ATID precusd6%3 | WIT
SS)
CLS. «IT POSSIELS TEORETCIS TAT Sora

Cut APTIOACIOS ANZ ROLATID.

wy,
poo en. LEB+G LLY -
be oe ee Yee eng ERS

@/243/263

Pe

CotFet  p. ante -

EPRODUCTION
PROMIBIMED : ; 7 Page oF a?



. RePRARICTION

7 ORE T 011831z vets. B

DIR CITE MEXI 6344 ax :

TERIALS UNDER TH 251903, Pols NUMBER 4083, PcUCHED ONE

SCTCRER TO SE HELD IN REGISTRY UNTIL PicyED GP BY MI
PRESENTLY TDY Nas.

SECRET CH Lr

rei corersy

BULK Ma’

&. cHtaccr

5 REPRODUCTION | 68 care 0-02.69:
PROGIBITED fer th phase



VS seener

"ARES ROIUCTION
men OTE

128. Out to 15-12-6),.
OBYs 3
“OBR:
155 anseribed) on
: myo. (previously transcribed)
_——.

2496

In at 268 (7) MO ft oe seme Person who phoned e day or so
ego and spoke in. on Russian/ spesks to. EXEDEDL

Hello, this EEE ¢ QSuALD (phon) speaking. I_was at your plece
last S tied cand, spate) to a consul, and they said chat

Zam to Washington, so I wanted to find
as I here anything new? But I don't remember the nema
of that Susur. . .

KOSTIKOv, He is derk /nair or skin?/.

Yes. My name is OSWALD.

Just a minute I'll find out. They say that they haventt

received anything yet.

Have they done anything?

Yes, they say thet s request has been sent out, but nothing

hes been received as yet. ‘s

And what...2 /OBY hangs up/.
Ou

viously transcribed)

Lectin Brrebnns /5-G0-55
/ Ocipten 1103
2.34— H§-T1I32

OGal~/

REPRODUCTION
_ PROMI

320 : .

0-077.

2

SESRET a Pace 13 oF 23 __
ae eer



ba. soe »sDo you apesit- Russisn? Yes. Why don’t you talic to him?s/

= 208- x: fntrada. ee ee ea dice ‘que oe

( SECRET

. ro

en su ‘conay Guaxks nortednericane_gua estuve ait’
_ * ab la tnba} Jada “) que espere "wh Honentos x 8
Lienvoy SILVIA “DURAN y ‘ E}SLES con alguns porsona Aldra y conerit:
28 SET, 4863 en aspafiol que lo pus! ron telofono a APARICIO y° 5 AY apunta, que
es ol 14-12-99—— 23}++ SILVIA le dice, sobre el ci\dadadone’
156055  scrteanericano ¥ q a va a hablar. 232 235=|HP habla,”
RUSO. HD le habla en FNGLES.—— STOUEN Los DoS Ex re
no U5 brs.e .
208. [Please see the ofan wenn Wo a, ; wektiog

speaks in English to someone in the b: icleground: He seid wait

+ T dontt! know.s(/#2akes the phone snd ssys in broken Russion,
‘I wes in your ‘Embassy and spoke to your consul. Just a minut
* MT tokes the phone and aske HO in English whet does he went?
MO: /in Russisn/ Please speck Russian.
MIs Wast else do you want?
MO: I wes just now at your Embassy and they took my sddress :
mi: timo thete

es .
MO: /speaks terrible, hardly recognizable Russi: aid not

know it then. I went to the’ ‘Cuban Embsssy to ask them for

a)
Le my address, because they | have it.

MI: Way don't. you come sgain snd leave your address with us, 1
not for from the Cubsn Enbsssy. ~ 7 =
MO: Well, I'11 be there right awey.

Do conn 2 fg Ane
‘REPRODUCTION eazea e
?P PROG iste SEGAET son p.2

ACE YW OF 22 |



C

“REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED : age IS 6F a3

* REPRODUCTION
= PRRIRTER

=a

Silvia DURAN calls ‘he USSR Embassy and talks to an unidentified

Soviet. She siysthat.in the” Be Embassy there is a North.

American who was at Bia Sovlee Embassy. The Soviet says wait a

minute. Silvia DURAN speaks English with someone - and comments
in Spanish that they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99 and to take
the number down - Silvia DURAN then says the American citizen is
going to talk with you, i.e., the Soviet. The American first
speaks Russian and the Soviet speaks English. They continue in
English. The American talks broken Russian and says I was in

Your Embassy and spoke-to your Consul. Just a minute. A Soviet
takes the phone and asks the: American in English what does he want?
The American says please: speak Russian. The Russian says what else
do you want? The American says I was just now at your Embassy and
they took my address. The Soviet says I know that. The American,
in hardly recognizable Russian, says I did not know it then. I
went to the Cuban Embassy to ask them for my address, because they
have it. The Soviet says why don't you cole again and Zeave your _
address with us, it is not far from the Cuban Embassy. The Ameri-

can says I'll be there right away.

HScA
F

OCCLFES -.



cea oe : SEGHEL eo a * = i
- REPRODUCTION
are | PRORATED ~

sede
}
-}

Lis quien habia hablado ella. lo! mandé con ellos’ ée\ 1a -Smbaja
da rusa diciendole que ct ellos 1c hacia: o aceptuban 1a visa
27 SET, 1963 ;

que entonces ellos los ctbanos tanbion se 1a daban sin ms —
tranites nodacas avisande |: Mndsracidm en Cuba, y quiere saber

15 6055 son quien habls. poraua ef ps que ne sche tazpoce con ‘que —

persona y que le dijeron «is el que no tenia problema. BD le
J pide espare un roucnto. 4u-- 10— NP es SILVIA DURAN del
Gensulade ce Cuba y expliba je mismo a otro ID. Este la dice
que le dejo su telefono + s:\mowbre para que despues le Laren.
SILVIA se le proporeionn asi yao of telafono 11-28-47.— TF que
Aprovechh cone cosa persoml do qua ella so cambio de domicilic
y no ha podido avisur zara que! + ervlen el boletin. y quo ahora
se la pucde dar. ID) le pide qui ‘sce 2 KOUXTLARENKO para que le

€e se cambio, 7 pide le de ol njubre do la Consojare o Agrogado

Culsual. SILVIA dice que se Lama TSRESA PRO2NzA y lo Dace}
al 14-13-26. 1D que gracias.— 535

Do oe0annZ

GOCLFE6 fu
~ REPRODUCTION on
_PROABITED : eS _ Lise were

go-F-72 =¢



“ . ee lon
EMBAJADA RUSA.- 1i-60-55-5 ane PROGBI IBirED:

27 sopticmbro 63.~
L34-NB.-T128-
0900-2114 hrs.-

UD le pide As tk) momento. 38kq- 392-—, HD que no estd que

lame come a las cinco de la tarde.-- 394——

(6eSURs

Oats

Entrada.- 1 del Consulado de Cuba, dice que esta allt

e+ wun ciudadado Anericano que fue a solicitar una ja para Cubs
Z z 6 .con ellos-de la Bmbaja-
ian o aceptaban la visa
nos) taibien se 1a deban sin mas —
tramites nadama<ayvi: - g Daigractén en Cuba, y quiere saber
con quien hal “dice que no sabe tampoco com que =
persona y =e as3e aren que, si que no tenia problema. HD le
pide espere un fers 4Oha= 410-— MP os SILVIA. DURAN del. -
Consulado de Cuba y explica lo mismo a otro HD.. Este le dice -
que le dejo su telefone y su nombre para que despues le, Llamen.
SILVIA se lo proporeiona asi como el telefono 11-28-47.— Y.que |
Sprovechh coma cosa personal de que ella se cambio de domicilio
y no ha podide avisar para que le envien ol boletin y que ahora
se la puede dar. le pide que lane 0 KOUKEARENKO para que to.
de eu cambio, y pide le de 4 wonbre de Ja Consejero 0 Agregade
 Culfual., SILVIA dice ate 3@. llama TERESA PROENZA y le liaman -

a)
shoe
431m *
m.que iba a estar a, las
' cinco de la ta’ mos. esta, que lame ~ -
. mafiana cono de 10 a mgffana o a las 12. ARANA pregunta cual
es el nombro de HD. Est ‘ ssfittes y le dice que espere un
Bi en la Embajada, ARANA dice
Cll EE

= SIGUE

‘RePRONgC EGE =

(OM con Lo:
t

PROWIGATED



13-00000, -_

2 4
REPRODUCTION:

Soviet?
27 bept 3

“Bienes PROHIBITED.

395- (629m. OV. - From the Cuban Consul:

f) American here who has requested,
he is coin: to the USSR. OV, ¢
spoke at the Soviet Snbassy 3
then thinking that if the:
would give him one sithout -onyno processing - - only advising the
Emigration of Cuba.’ with whom he (imerican)
spoke sinca he hij p doen't kngeeither and he was told that thers
wera no prod] Te asks: thet OV. wait a minute. FL
OV 4s SILVIA “ef thé: Cuban Consulate and explains the same to
this one tes har to leave her name and nunber so
@a be can calljher,<\SEEIA gives it to him alotig with the tel, mm.
11-28-47.~ Silvia Sdv9"as a personal thing thet she has moved and
‘that’ sha has not a about her changezof address ani will not
ieceiw the Bulletin and sha can advise then now. ‘IV. asks that she
call KOUKHARZNKO in order to change the address, and then asks for
:the name of the Cultural Attache, SILVIA says Lt te TERESA PROSIZA
whose number is 14-13-26. .IV. thanks her.-— h35-— ceed)

ys thet there is an

i. fi po He
in : it 5 Be eau “+
: i .



Soo SECRET

4 . ot
295— | Ds hrs,- HD pregunta a SILVE

a,
~ Liewvoy
27 SET 1963

_——,

15 6159

pero sok este se:
do_una orgentancisn

acgton.

Diuua de cl, es que el|fo‘cenoce 2 nadie on Cuba y entonces at
as asi es my aiticidaye’ Le<dia) la visa, porque el pensaba
RWS -
Neth eGmd\81 ya sabia que ce iba a tardar

: gudo on Cuba y ya de nlld irse a
4” Lou
que si su espusa entt

jorita on *

Mashington. ya_® reé@bi¥ ahorita el visedo miso de Ia

URSS porn regresar a’la mtria, ella va a recibir ou visade on

ro teniendé ese visedo ella potrian commicarle”

a cualquier Ingar ese piycize por ejomplo aqui o. en’ cualquier

otra nerte le puede vocftir, pero chorita no las tienon, SILVIA
So clere y que taut: ‘

Yashington »

Ps

co se le puede ar una carta porque no
salon si su visa sort apravating TD aun elles solo deran el visa-
Wo vem’n les indiencionceQSiEVIA que entonces ese pondrf en su
plandlla. ED que tuméeg save guede dar ninguna oarta da —

a ye s otiee
reconendacién porquy BS le epsoce ¥ que’ perdone por

yen

+. Malestia, SILVIAGNS):

LS

cuidade y que prchaa, paadiasee= -

REPRODUCTION
are

agen nea



13-00000

Soe > REPRODUCTION

Sg om PRORIBITED
DFE e- soni ese

OV - outside voice.

: Zl

i <\
1 t
j
288. Out to 14-13.26.~ (1625 bral (cuban Embassy) IV. —
number of the Cuban Consul. Gl. It's —11-28-e— 254
it :
295~ : Out to 11, 7.-(1626 brs)- IV asks SILVIA if the American
i | | nas: been there. 2 Says yes, ke is here now. IV.- Agcording
: | to the letters, % shoved from the Consulate in Zashington he

a Ao stay for a long tine with his wife who is
received the answer from iastinzton con-
onsidering the processing it will take 4
at permission of the USSR they have to request...
visa can't be given here without asking Washington.
s man, he belonzs to an organizatien in favor of
aid that the Cubans can't pive him a visa without the
I don't know what to do sith him. I have to wait for
ithe answeXQvom “ashington. SILVIA - %e have to wait also bacause his
i problem is that be knows no one in Cuba and it's dificult to obtain 2
ivisa in these conditions. Ha expactsd to process the visa. He know it
‘would take long to process the fussian visa ani would watt for it in |
{Cuba and leave from there.for the USSR. IV. — The thing is thet if his
lwife ie-nox in “ashington she will recsive the visa for returing to
‘Ruseia. She will receive the visa in dashincton and having the visa
‘she can sent it to any place “or eyample here or any other | Place but
iright now she dogsn't have -it. SILVIA ~ Naturally, and we ‘can't give
: him a letter of recormendation because xe doy mw if his visa will
| | ‘be approved. IV. = ‘se will only give ed v: ording to indications.

I} ; Gntructions) SILVIA. - Then that is wh: ut in my plans. ~
P ther becuase ve
i No'tother and

| i iwants to go

(eee
a
Py
a
“af
a
ig
3
3
Es
3
g

Hy oa you very much.—
1 H

0001870 Bs Bet Gu.

ee Os
PORATED



OEUHE! é 5

+, REPRODUGTION
omer: be PROBATE

L34-1i8.-T128-
0900-2114 hrs.

828 porel,.Cénsul. HD que no
Sa viens para ir a.0desa. HD que .
lame’ a las once y medi¥, HF qua itasta que horas. HD le cuelga.
-- 78--

79-
85-
»
90-
93-
98- de la Embajada de Yuroslavia pide
Ca et BEkaJador. HD que espero un —
. <infornig;sobre 1a invitacién para el.
para el almuerzo ofrecido por el
dente LOPEZ MATEOS y esposa el-dfa
7 de octubre & ia Isabel a las 14:00 hrs. y desea,
saber si acepta Aichs en ién. CHTCHEDROV despues, de consul.
tar informa-12-~ que con mucho gusto va a asistir.--129—
130- Tono ,ocupado.—— 136--
: é * nO . . - oo
137- saisda al 45-37-72 35 Ber (Colonial America) -~
[Si dice a SAN ROMA gue estan\en la Eubajada Rusa y
que npGesitan sabor on gas. Focka vaa \regar a Odesa el barco.
o00L871

udras. ALATRISTS Slog jesBres del consulado necesiten una

R iG) pio ee RYoletos del pasaje en el KALONIA y
EPRODU hes pone eed poe ETE or
“tn te riandarselos Bllos. SAROMAN que si, que solo le pres.

__ PRONIBTTER Fon eer “Seber pase as que mandon sacar las .



“4 SECRET <j
é REPRODUCTION
“RUSSIAN EMBASSY. 15-69-87 a, PROGIBITED.

1 October 63
126-M26-T129
1031 - 2002

I'd lixe to ask you to cali another phone number.
Please.

Please write it down;
Thank you. :

Please.

coULee.. a A

«SEE ae



“ REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

% Octes.. of

/ L26—126-T131.
7 093. = 167

ca, the consul. an
Taat's right bs.

> IME have tc get a perc.l to

scat deponés sa\gour comvorsstion. = doi: mow | ..t this

ousiness. ....se@ call ths office of the consul an isk your
questicn. .
fask. . cer of tho .:. . + againf. ©

/eives him the number ond teli. ... to ask for the Consul of
the Soviet Bzbsssy in Morteake 7

«

MO: Thanx...

* 16356 PPu-..3 seo >: Spentsh tra\chtationy.. the only inglish ~

ue. in this < ..sry to remember. ..-- to recs

iD,

Horo is the ¢
tion: VLADIMI= KONSTASTINOVICH XOXINAKI ord TAT? 3. THENKO/.

ff the names in the Spanic: sransertp

GCOLETS ©

serRaOUETiNR
~_ PRON ISMED

ote

