# 104-10219-10136

## Page 1

104-10219-10136

:..

69 June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE BEGORD

SUBJECT: MArgAre: BARBERAT aka Marguerite Jeanne BARBERAT.

201-30258%, Maelden in December 1953 a 2718 Pacheco St.e

San Franciaco, Callerala

1. Following Information supplementa & Memorandum for the

Mocord, dated 26 Aprll 1901, subjoct: Frolessor Talyana CIZEVSKA

aka Tanya CHIZHLVSKA (201-280081), which included information from

• nonellive sellable foreign source to the effect thal, so of September

1960, a Largarit DARBERAT, hollered identical sita aubjecs, vas an

American otudent at the Univerelty of beningrad.

The same memor a8*

dur alos indicated that subject had apparently attended the Univereity

of California at Berkeley during lhe Spring Semester of 19601 also, that

ohe was 'n mail contact from the USER with Stephan sha Steve VIEDER

MAN, of the Inter-Univeroity Committee as the Univereisy of Indiana,

Bloomington, Indiana. According to the name memorandum. subject

was in costact in Loniagrad with Sroleodor GIZEVSKA and presumably

also bad somas contact or al lenet knew Willlam Hamiltos MARTIN

(201-202338)

L. A racently comploted name check on subjoct reveala chas ahe

le endonbtodly Identical with Marguerito Jeanne BARBERAT. tha

daughter of Louls Antoino BARBARAT and Madeleine Marie-Francoise

BARBERAT nO SEQUE, French Nallonalo who had formerly resided a!

Mulden and Tolagtao, Chins. As al 19 Februnry 1952, bouts and

Madeleine BANBERAT, logether with daughter Marguerite Jennne.

wore applicanta ln Parlo, France, for a L'.S. Immigrallon Visa. (e.f.

22 YA 4089, dated 26 February 1932, Enclosure 2) At the lime of their

vina applicalion, Louln BARDERAT linted swo other daughters, Josette

BARBERAT, French National, realdent at & Route de Corbell, Ville

moleson, (5 & 0). France, and Solange BARBERAT of the almo addreas.

As one of his character references, Louis BARBERAT listed W. G.

YOUREFT of San Francisco, who la identical with Vladimir George

YURYEV, "ho has been reported to have maintained close business

relationo with the Japanese during the occupation of Teingeno and there-

from to have made a considerable amount of money. YURYEV also

SECRET

i Tv

---

## Page 2

7369%

maintaned very close relations tA 1. D. WELCHIISK%, Chalrman ol

Cho Isingtao USSA Cilson' Associallon, and mas mapocted of passing

Information to lls broler, MeNs YOURIEFS, en actire Sorles datelli-

genCe agent la Telagtoo, Loule BARBERAT Hored Vladimir Coorge

YURYEV with address 541 10th Ave, San Isaneloco 21 Callerala,

USA do ose al lis relecencos on his vas application.

$. An of 12 March 1952(606. Attachment 3 of ZIYA 4200. dated

14 March 1952) Solange Adrienno BARBERAT, French National and

motor of nubjoct, liled a separato visa application for Imalgration la

Parto, at which time she liated the following persons as relerenceo.

Ill of mbor had alao broa listed 1s the same connection by bor lallar.

LoN BARBERAT!

• L. CO. I. F. BEEMAN, HO. FMI ALMIE. US NAYY

Base, Nerfolk l Ve.

D. F..G. YOUNEFF, of San Frameleco, Identided abore.

€. H. C. NOX, 101 Velasco Avenue, San Francisco.

Callers®

• Accosting to FIYA 1236, as ol imid-December 1951 aubjocto

O8her aleter, Josetto Beatrice TORDJMANN BOO DARBERAT ARA

MIA. T. TORDIMANN, Erench National, applied la Paris, France, lor

an Immigration pos to the U.S.. al walch time one indicated that obe

And formerly roelded al Isiontoln and Isingtao, China, no woll an in

Sea Franciace,. Callerit, but so of date ol application was residing da

Vullemolesos our Crge, Frence. Jodetie TORDIMANN Loler has

Farent, hor sinter Marguerite BARBERAT and her olater Solange

BARBERAT, all of French nationality, na residing at 2718 Pacheco 61.

San Franciaco, Californla, An a charactor reference she lated

Mr. and hird. H. Go FOI, U.S. Navy, & Clie Negrior. Parto.

Me. H. C. FOX In undoshtedly Identical wits to H. C. FOX el Sar

Irascinco, Colliernia, liled aa a reference on the visa appleadlos al

her parents and sinter. She listed her husband oaly as E. ICRDIMANN,

and indicatod that ho was employed at the time of her application at the

fEE "SOCIETE SAMIRING", 52 AveRse Th. Candler, Farle.

So Although a fold ile chock in the names of Loute BARBERAT.

his will, and his daughtere iailed to develop any derogatory information

on le BARBARATO themselves, the suspect contacte of Vlodimis

TURTEY vero mentionod. ll la not known whether they are related la

EYES ENLY

---

## Page 3

any way tO s lA, BAMBENET reported in SOA-226J ol May 1933 as one

al tRO DirOCtOr ol the pUbliCaLOn NORMALIEN, located at 84 Rue de

l'Untvereite, Paris. France, which in a weekly Communise publication.

accordiag to UNBOUND. It la aleo rot known whether this family in any

way do related to theM. BARBAREI, reported in Vi ViFC-226, 10 January

1950, an a lender o the ECP Section In Saumur-se, Maine et Loiro

Department of Erance.

6. From a senollies foregn source available to the al Stall, who

hao produced consistenily reliable Informalion, il was learned that

Bubjoch, as ul April 1941, was contacted by Professor Oleg d.

MASLENROV (201-60712) of the Dopartment of Slave Langunges and

Idleratures of the Univerulty of Calliornia al Berkeloy, Source advised

furlbor that subject apparently had bees a student of Professor

MASLENIKOV'a al Borkeley, and that he bod apparectly learned of

subjoct'o exact thereabous from a mutual seguaintance in Berkeley,

one Helen SVOBODA, to whom subject and written from the Gorlot

Unlon.

1. Professor Oleg A. MASLENIXOV lu the sos ní Alexander

MASLENLOV and MArgAre MAYER NeO BRYNER, sho formerly was

Margari! MASLENKOV, MArgAre! MAYER nee BRINED, le the eleter

of NIRA OSTROLMOY NEO BRYNES Vlie of Alexandor stepanovich

OSTROUMOV (201-81890), the latter belor the parento of Faul

Alerade: OSTROUMOV - BAYNER (201-58455) and of Svotlaan A.

BAUBOLE Be BRYNER, ulle of Edward SAUBOLLE (201- 143279)

Prefessor Oleg Alerandrorich MASLENKOV lo thorefore a cousin al

Paul A. OSTROUMOV-BRYNER, of Svetlana A. SAU BOlik, of

PrOfesSOr CYrIl BRYNER, and of Areeny Georgo YANKOVSKY (50 illo

$36855) who nood bie name as a listed reference In the FAQ-Past I

completed for employment with thin organisallos. According to infor

matton avallable in the files of the Oilice el Securty, Prolossor Oleg A.

MASLENIKOV ban two brothere, Alezander MASLENIKOV and igor

MASLENIKOV, conceraing "hom there le no detalled information

currently available.

Professor Oleg A. MASLENIKOV (50 fle EE-2378)

As noted in Ollice ol Securily files an having been a sponsor for, speaker

{ox, and mounder of soveral Communist front organisalions in the

United Sentes. His mother, Basgarit (or Margaret) MAYER nee BRYNER.

when contacted in 1950 la connection with the investigation ut Ardeny

George YANKOVSKI recommended the latter lavorably for a position

Ol trust, It should be notod that Paul Alerander OSTROUMOV-BRYNER

no both a sponser for entry into the United States of Arseny George

YANKOVSKY, and a favorable witnens at the naturalisation al the latter.

GEORET

---

## Page 4

8. No further action by FI/D ln connection with the ERGRACE

Investigation le currently contemplated with respect to following up on

the reported contact of mubjoct "ith Prafessor Olog A. MASLENIKOV.

Tha mattor lu thorefore referred lo the Cl Stall and to the Office of

Security los any farther acdos which may be indicated.

ANITA POTOCKI

П/D

Dintributions

Orig- 100-6-124/3

I ce - CS/SS

2 cc • DC/CI

IcE - 201-282338 (BARTIN FIO)~

I ce - ZEGRACE Flle on CIZEVSKA (201-280081)

Based On Item HTLINGUAL 161 DO 5BJ

SECRET

NES CHLY

---

