104-10186-10062

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tats material consaine tnfermation aecting the Nationa Defense of sbe Colued States within the meanizg of the Eaytinage Lara Title
WL OSC Gece TH 'ad TH the Urnamiaion of ferelation of which in any manner to An uneuthorienc perma le prvalbeied OF law.

SECRET,
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO, car

-316.00727-65

SUBJECT Rafael GUZMAN (alias “Rolando") DATE OSTR. «16 February 1965

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES = CS- 311 /00115-64

(page 7

DATE OF 1 964 : § July 1964 RETURNTO CIA
Washington, D. C. : Hackground Use Only,

Date acqDecember 1964 FIELD REPORT NO. Ro.Not Re foduce, /

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOUACE ORADINGS AE DEVINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

source. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

Intelligence

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes suppiemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

1. Rafael GUZMAN, alias "Rolando," is an officer in Section '
B, Central America, of the Departamento Ilegal (Illegal .

Department) pot the Direccion General de Inteligencia
Directorate’ of Intelligence ~ DGI).

2. GUZMAN, a Caucasian, was born about 1943, is
seven inches tall, weighs 135 pouads, aad wears glas:

(General

five feet
ses. He

resides at Calle 45, No. 3424, entre 34 y 36, Sarianao, telephone

number 29 3276.1

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal so identifiabl

e information

on GUZMAN.
5 : 5
4 4
3 coer 3
2 SECRET \“Scvsegea| 2
1 NO FOREIGN DISSEM nian 1
STATE Tow Taaay Trav The Tse DARK Toce [FBT Z
TEP CINCLANT #__ TENS
_[ ice Fit sori nied oy BD

ku AVE J ees |
pemayit/SaA 8 (1), FE (1), CI 4, RID 1 je + |

ee

{9-5-1
ORM XO. y OnSALETE PREVIOTS EDTTANS
