# 104-10186-10103

## Page 1

104-10186-10103 гр

INFORMATION EPORTE

INFORM MONDREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

mis matertal containe tormalos afrulns une Malional Delona el the t'alied Statos milala iso meanina ol la

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/Dominican Republie

REPORT NO.

SUNECT Jose CASSA Lagrono

eS C1-316/02401-68

1 December 1964

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce.

5

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. 1964

FIELD REPORT NG.

THIS IS UNEVALLATED INPORMATION, SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONI

SOURCE

former. Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban.

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

by the source

and includes supplemental

intormation from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action

on any of

the individuals mentioned in

the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Although source recognized a photograph of Jose CASSA

Lagrono, he could not recall any pertinent data concerning

When this Agency's representative suggested to source

that CASSA 15 & Dominican,

source said he knew CASSA as a

Cuban, rather than a Dominican, although the latter is not

excluded.

Source added, however, that

1f CASSA 15 a

Dominican ho

would not have arrived in Cuba until after

August 1963.1

Headguarters Comment:

1. According. to available information Jose CASSA Lagrono

was born

on 22 June 1916 in Santo Domingo and is.

believed to be a Dominican citizen.

He has been

reported to be a member of the pro-Castro Agrupacion

Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJ = 14th of June Political

Group).

According to a usually reliable source CASSA

left Santo Domingo on 20 July 1963 for Panama City

en

route to Mexico City to go to Habana to attend the 26tb

of July celebrations

in 1963.

TDCS-3/554,908 reported

that an official travel manifest revealed that CASSA

24

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

ARANT

REP CINCLAYT

(Note. Fist disto, Jution indicared by "=".)

CINCSO F

T.WXX

IANS (SENT TO SANTO DOMINGO)

16-10

INFORMATION REPORT

MISA/EOS I RE/S'R

A CL/LIA

AH/SA/NOR I RE/MADR)

2, CL/REA

AIL/SA/CI.d

15-2

RID/AY

LEI

31EL

INFORMATION REPORT:

IT SDON

WHO SA 7 (2), WE I (2) CI 6, RID 1, WIS 4 (1)

6141808*

1000901nATFe8

AH/2/DR BS:L

1l draft. CI

19-6-102/4

TIN

---

## Page 2

SECRET.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

one of 20 Dominicans who left Mexico City, by air, for Habana

on 26 Julj

On 22 August 1963, It was reported that CASSA

the Dominican Republie.

(see TDCS-3/361,119). On.10 October 1963

ex caribe.

daily newspaper, reported that CASSA was deported on

5 October 1963 to Puerto Rico where ho was detaired by United

States Immigration authorities, but that he returned to Santo

Domingo the same day. (see TDCS-3/561, 495) •

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

