# 104-10250-10019

## Page 1

104-10250-10019

TO

THROUGH:

12:50

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST =

SEE HR 10.? BEFORE SUBMITTING TO EAB AN ORIGINAL AND J COPIES OF THIS F

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATTN:

DATE

EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCE

(Operating

al, administrative and/or security officer)

6: 1

FI/SUPPORT

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

pand Use On

DO B8

10 JULY 1967

FROM

NAME AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE P

HICKS, CALVIN W.

DESCRIPTION OF

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY.

COMPONENT

ANT/IW

ROOM. NO. LAND

HASE

TRIP TO EXPO 67 IN MONTREAL, CANADA WITH MY WIFE AND SIX CHILDREN

DURING THE WEEK OF 6-12 AUGUST L967

BY PRIVATE AUTO.

PHONE 2

2. FULL NAMES OF ORGANIZATION AND/OR PERSONS INVOLVED *

CALVIN NO: CATHERINE LOS THERESA LO MICHAEL CES MARY COS LISA ASS

DANIEL C., AND PATRICIA E.

HICKS

3.

DATE(S) OF PARTICIPATION AND LOCALE OF ACTIVITY

2247096066

SOMETIME DURING THE WEEK OF 6-12 AUGUST 1967, CANADA.

REMARKS

285

MEet

In engaging In the requested activity I will make no reference to,

or discuss

my CIA assignments or duties nor will I make reference to or discuss my CIA employ-

ment except as authorized by Headquarters Regulation 10-Cala

5.

CONCURRENCES AND/OR APPROVAL WITHIN OPERATING OFFICE

DATE

FOR COMPLETION BY EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH AND RETURN OF

101564

Date

SO SECURITE ORACTION

Compliance with CIA Regulation No. 10-7-8)

"is required excep

that brieling by tho Office of Security is waived in this casa

Employee will make no referenze to, or discuss his ClA connec:

lion, assignment or duties during the course of the requested travel.

13,902

For the Discator of Security:

4ps

Date.

Chiet, Personnel Security Divi

FORM

9-61

879

USE PREVIOUS

EDITION.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

(*- 38)

---

