104-10087-10120

H
L.

gre

SECRET

oot”

38 June 1064

STHOPSI3

Ber his request, Ind Lt. Oliverio

Aatoaio TOHED Yesallo was recontscted

om 8 dene 64 at bis p of reeid—
Be provided additions! details

ease.

‘aBd |

fied Osiel one
"G0CO" as possible lesda to
GLABGEA Gobel 2

a


SECRET

13S Ane 1964

SUBJECT: Recentact of Oliverio A, TOMEY Yasalle. (201-283206)

1, At. 1730 bours, & June 64, the uncersigned was advised
at Bie residence that a Mr. TOME (Subject) had called the
security number qiven him (351-6161) and left the pescage that
be would lite to tals agnim with Paul Stroud (the undersigned)
enytine after 160% houra, & June.

2, Upom arriving at TOMMU's apartment (Apt. 303, 1028
Wahler Place &2, High Poiat Apartment Howse, Sashington, D. C.),
2830 Bours, 8 June, TONEY izdicated to bis tvo daughters be would
like to have some privacy and they sad bis wife, Ceridad, left
the apartman’

it.

lied the name
He reiterated
apture by the Cuban Governseat
jaent to his infiltration, he knew only the first asses of
¥! BG came in contact, but then added he xnew
ia those bouse he was hiding, because she. ~
> one of his infiltration tearm.

4. Om several ccearions, according to TOMED, he was seated

Qt the table im Ann's house with several other people. Cue of
these {ndividwals, knowa to TOMEU omly as “COCO,” wan described
a0 the sceretary tol avg There vag not, however,
@ay discuesions in which TOMEY recells[ or hie political ¥
@gugathies having been diss to TOMEU's recole H
lestion it was “COCO” wno vas
woe got avare of any relationship: betes a
Glthougs TOMES hac no iafersetion as to what fina!
Le — Bie ape shey mate, ine

ie af, A exe available wsy be able ta
Adentity sane tha peevise data en his agceseability for
geataat,

Gee Gaze GALES, forner Calief of the Bevans Sire
Department, wae identified by TOME am ancther possible lead
le
7

; SECRET

met NTN ear foamininernnes gant

Ee

i
u

Agoerding
eoeiated with( _| and he ee



ae

Sevae dl

-2-

who would know |: TOKYU affirmed Osiel vas previously
with MkMUYO Gufferrer in the Second Front of Escanhray. Oaiel

vas under asylum in the Brazilian lubessy (sic, Argentine
Eabassy?), when TUukU gsined political asylum. then Osiel
finally received hie s: conduct from the imbassy, he vent
te Puerto Rico and, TOMEU postulates that Osiel is now again
with MEWOYO in either the United States or Puerto Rico.

6. Two snap shots (to be returned) vere Provided by.
TOMLU of himself id six other individuals who vere in asylua

att , in the photograph in
whic! is seated, ss, fro
lett H Oliverio Touku,

(believed be : o (U8), Jorge Del VALLE
(tex?), Quiel GOMZALEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

7. Upon completing the debriefing, Strovd and TOMEU
“exchanged small talk" for a while until TOMEU finally stated
that he still wished there was something more he could do to
belp free Cuba, and asked “What do you think I should do?"
Stroud replied that no person could really sake that type of
decision for another individual, sand countered by asking TOMEU
what alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the

aS @ Career military officer,

8. TOMBU replied that, of course, he was once an
agriculturalist, but that there were few job opportunities in
Which he could apply his past expertence. His sister had also
eeked him if he felt he and uis family would want to live with
ber in Spain or Hexico, but he didn’t think too much of this
idea, He thon stated that he bad been asked by Manuel ARTINE
© take a job ae an instructor, Without indicating any
as80ciation of even awareness of ARTIME's activities, or of
ARTIME's contact with TOMEU (as incicated in TOMEU's 201),
POMED was asked what he thought of ARTIME's proposition,

TOMEU stated that he would no longer follow any man as 2a
dndividual or as a leader, because a man's ideals, outlook,
and objectives change with tine, For example, the people of
Gaba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated, When
Pidol took: over, hie acconplishasnts gradually becawe quite:
Gikferent from the ideals he had espoused. TOMEU continued
by saying he would “no longer follow a man, One could only
trust his ideals or an organization which followed those
ideals, since a good organizstion would-be leas likely of
being controlled by a single nan." When esi for an example
Of the type of organization he hud in mind, TOMEU repiied he
WRG most favorably inclined towards the idesla. and goals of
the JUAZ. (The JURE or JRC is an organization crested by .
Banolo RAY Rivero around s nucleus of former 26 July Movement
leaders, See semo and attachment dated 23 July 1963 from Joha
@ugh Crinmias, Coordinator of Cuban Aff, ABA, Department
af Btate in ‘@ 201-283206.) ust

Senne SEE

‘acta



: SECRET

®. It sbould, perbeps, be noted here that in am informal
exchange with itrs. Donald WEBSTER, TOMEU's supervisor at the
Defense Leagusge Institute, Anacostia Naval Annex, 4 June 64,
Mra, WEBSTER voluateered the information that. “rll of the other
“Brigade students bere’ hove told me they think very highly
of TOMEU, end that he is a very brave msn, because he and his
faaily were very wealthy in Cuba and he gave it all up to go

s Auto exile and gight the Castro Regine.”

