# 104-10119-10232

## Page 1

104-10119-10232

SEGRETI

Chiles, cI/01

10 SEP 1959

Acting Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Support)

C 77229

1/203377

24

Reference is nade to your nemorandum datod 16. April 1959

requesting as appropriate Investigation of. Subjoct

[SCLACTEALE

iad

neff

Br:)

• 3

During recent investigation of Subjoot, cortain infortion

ang developed which appears to reflect adversely upon his character,

projossional activities and associates.

This Infomation, In addition

to checks of the Office of Securlty Indices, is surrarized ae follough

Three developed Infomants commerted, avorab y regard ng

Subject's character, reputation and loyalty, but one informant stated

that Subjoct had been maryled thee times and tla present nurrlago, almost

ended in divorce recently.

Subject was fined $45 for a 1954 traffic violation and

his subsequent failure to appoar at the hearing.

One informant advised

Subject, had recently been the object of Inqúries by local police officers.

The Inforiant bolleved this action rosulted fron unpald parling tickets.

co Subject's nane appears numerous tines In subversive files

on the west Coast. These Items contain infornation about Subject's

activities in the Denocratic Inority Conference and liste his pro

fessional associates.

In 1949 he was listod as a merber of the Bar

conrittee against loyalty oaths for lawyers. He

• was shown as a close

associate Of VONSO SPENCER, deseribed by the files as a leftist, and

his activities vere primarily concerned with local ninor. ty groups.?

Thesa activities vere extenaively renorted in the Communist Dally Poontoin

Horld.

Vanio SPENCER represented Tassia FREED, a non-cooperative

witnoss before the ACUA.

Tassia FRECD is the wife of E-11 FREED, an

adnitted Cormnist nember.

Security Office Indicos also reflect that

This dars is to piang al dia dog dee aid sell be truened chari is

SING MUTTER

la any manner mismeer me a bia drill di foung billie.

SEDREN

---

## Page 2

•Be11 FROED 1s an airitted Conunist Farty Limber and toos part In vardous

front activlties In California over the yearo.

0. Tra Subject roportadly assistad Ralph H. NUTTER during the

triul of Anthony P. RIUS and Alfred VL101, Landors of the Crammity Sar

vico Organisatione

HUTTER, according to security Office Indicos, has a

close personal friond of larrison Scott DROwd, seowrity disapproved in 1955,

and favorably recomended him. MuriaR 13 also shown as a member of thel

I02 Angelos County Conferonce on Cormittee Relations (LICCR) as of October

1953. Mis' organisation, although not regarded as lommuniat doalsated,

sticis olosa to the Commist line and has spoken out ageinst Los Angeles

Police Danartant brutality, teacher firing, loyalty oaths, book-burning

by tho Party atithe present time.

In January 1959, the Subjoct sas Interviewed by, a ropresenta-

tive olathe Ost conceraink his association with Reinhold Josuha WulFo

24

5.

In view of tho certification set forth in your request, no CIA

Piles othor than those of the lifico of Security have been searchod 1n*

comraction with this cass. It Is assured that all pertinort Information

concerning Subject has been furnishud pursuant to the provisions of Clandos

tina Sorvicod Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -

Fiold 10, 105001115

24

6.1

The enclosed caterinl should be returned in a soaled envelope narked for

the attention of the undersigned when it has served its purpose.

FOR THE DIRECTOR CE SECURITY:

E0l0J3

T:1.s 2.0a

».?. 5.."

2933 и 1959).

2/DU

---

