104-10412-10293]

uaa)

8
wed

Chief, WD

Harold R, NOEMAYR (pe)

of

done regarding bis futures assiguaatt. a :
2. Eowaver, an orderto-Glearup his.sonr

to tare a.statencnt fren the field, simed by tha

tea
Zorsrded to Headquartars. ~

3B At the sane time, Boadwarters is writing to Coste Rics) = 72,
RIBAT, eprboa ceuy to(Hexico citz) asking for an investigation of faatiy

o2 HONG! s wits. / { a)

]

ity:
e:cicd) RYBAT Chkono
alling '\

act

Headquarters is now trying to arrange to have iGEMATR transferred
eCS to Headquarters area. Because of the incidents rained in referenced
cavlas, 25 well as cerevatory inforxation on fila eoncemming tha family
apject’s wifs, 1% is not possible to convert 8OS! 4
or inplojee at this tina. -Zeadquarters is attemting to acTanga to beve

avalcipiigg the Station's astinaie of the secsrity of SOMAET ana his wifs.
Lt iSrequested that this mmorandua be prepared.a3s.socn as possible and

R toa Staff Agent

JOCKATR brought. to Seadqrarters in-his.present states Bndsr.a new. WH: Projecte. . 01,
You will be notified Tater ofthe. details of ‘this propoest after itches: :
been Geternined uhetrer such an abtexpt will be successfuko Jn the-nenn |
time, no indication-shoald be given to SCMEATR concerning what d: detng

y file, it: will-be-necessary
Shief of Station, | ~T ~~~

: Alsocincleds a’statesent

aoa aL

3

OLIVER G. Gstzoep

220 - IB


9

‘omnarters is-now trying to arrange to have HCENATR transferred

GCS te Zeadquarters area.

os Saployee ab tcois tine.

Because of the incidents raised in sefsrenesd
cavles, 35 -“2lh as derevatery in7orxaticon on fe corceming the f:

af Cobjee’s ifs, it is not posaibls to conver 2
Seadquarters is atterehing to azranga to ve
S0SHALL brought toe. Seadqrarters in. bis.present.states andar a.new. WH. Project.
Loa will be nohitied Iater of the details of this Laatnetrpataes it-kas
been Gebermined wnetier such an abiempt will de succesafuk.:
tine, no indication. should be given to JOERATR conmerndng what: is being

done regarding nis fubwe acsignaemt.

>

avaltys
Te tS ioquoated

the Staticats astinate ‘of the socarit; of SOMSTT and his wife. -
that this mamorandma be prepare aa. soon a& possible and

Sorsarded to Headquarters.

. Be Souever, in’ order to-Glear- ap his.sees
te have a Statement from the field, _ sigsed by tn Chiat of Station,/

oo sane tine, Hea:

wArboa ceuy to
or ea wits. /

|

Ind

=

(63
city.)

~

STTIings

AYBAT Chon:
creed \ i

(Geico City) asicing for an ;
3

=
_ 2?
may
SS, |
iS

wv)
2

qusy ve

2% SORAYR to @ Staff Agent

In the ueszn— -

ty file, +b wi: be neceosary

Riso Gaeiats a Stitacent

is vetting to

|
|

