# 104-10161-10504

## Page 1

104-10161-10504

ACTION: FR-4 (078)

EPS/EG=2..PCS/PGLA

781403463

INFQ:

SECUR -3

SECRET

OSB

ERP:

STAFF

VR, FILE, DDO I CAPES, CAPM, COS-2, CI-4,

(24/W)

PAGE 001

TOR: 121806Z OCT 78

28

IN 143463

SECR

121700Z OCT 78 STAFF

78

CITE

SAN FRANCISCO 23497

TO:

DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL ISOLOG SECUR

REF:

SAN FRANCISCO 23469 1371546

1.

WALTER C. BADENDICK MET FOR OVER TWO HOURS WITH SON

OF NUCLASSIC/88 IN LOCAL RESTAURANT ON 9 OCT 78.

MEETING WAS

EXTREMELY WARM AND FRIENDLY, WITH BOTH RECALLING VIGNETTES

AND ANECDOTES ABOUT WUCLASSIC/88 (C/88). SON WAS ENROUTE TO

AIRPORT TO FLY TO EAST COAST TO FINALIZE PURCHASE OF FARM

NEAR CHICO, CA., BUT WAS PLEASED TO TAKE TIME TO MEET BADENDICK

AND TALK ABOUT C/88.

SON RELATED THAT C/88, ALTHOUGH ENORMOUSLY

TALENTED AND AT ONE TIME YOUNGEST MAJOR IN U.S. ARMY, HAD

MARRIED SECOND WIFE UNACCEPTABLE TO ARMY AND GAVE UP HIS CAREER

BECAUSE OF HIS RESPONSIBILITIES TO HER AND HIS CHILDREN (SON

WAS ONLY OFFSPRING FROM FIRST MARRIAGE). THIS LED TO LENGTHY

PERIOD WHICH SON DESCRIBED AS "PURE HELL" FOR C/88, DURING

WHICH HE WAS POOR, IN ILL HEALTH AND UNABLE TO UTILIZE HIS CON-

SIDERABLE TALENTS

AS INTELLIGENCE OFFICER.

DURING LAST EIGHTEEN

MONTHS OF ASSOCIATION WITH RTACTION, C/BB WAS ONCE AGAIN IN HIS

ELEMENT, WAS DOING PURPOSEFUL AND IMPORTANT WORK AND WAS FULFILLED

AT END OF HIS LIFE.

SON IS VERY COGNIZANT OF THIS AND HAS VERY

GOOD FEELINGS TOWARD RTACTION BECAUSE OF IT.

SON WAS INTIMATE

UNNAMED RTACTION OFFICER POSING AS NEPHEW THIS LAST IN CASE C/88

SHOULD DIE, SO SON WOULD BE PREPARED TO BACKSTOP BADENDICK AS

RELATIVE).

2. REGARDING C/B8'S PLAN TO ASSASSINATE CASTRO, SON SAID

IT WAS WRITTEN MANY YEARS AGO IN FLORIDA AT TIME WHEN SON IS

ABSOLUTELY SURE C/B8 HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH RACTION.

IN FACTO

SAID SON, HE DOES NOT THINK PLAN WAS DRAWN UP AT ANYONE'S BEHEST,

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• SECRET

STAFF

781403463

PAGE 002

TOR: 1218062 OCT 78

IN

1403463

23497

BUT RATHER THAT C/88 HAD DISCUSSED GENERAL CUBAN SITUATION

WITH SOME ACQUAINTANCES AND THEN HAD ON HIS OWN INITIATIVE

WRITTEN UP PLAN.

SON REMEMBERS SEEING PLAN WHEN

HE MOVED C/B8 TO MONTEREY IN MAY 78, BUT IT WAS NOT AMONG PERSONAL

EFFECTS.

HE SPECULATED THAT. PERHAPS C/88 HAD DESTROYED IT.

BADENDICK NOTED THAT, ALTHOUGH RTACTION HAD NEITHER INVOLVEMENT

BE THOUGH PACT, CHAO

NOR KNOWLEDGE OF PLAN, IT COULD BE SUBJECT TO MISINTERPRETATION

IF IT EVER BECAME PUBLIC AND WERE ASSOCIATED WITH RACTION.

SON

SAID IF PLAN SHOULD TURN UP HE WILL EITHER DESTROY IT OR MAKE

SURE IT REMAINS HIS PRIVATE PROPERTY; HE IS AWARE OF UNDESERVED

HARM IT COULD DO TO INNOCENT RTACTION.

SON SAID THAT APARTMENT MANAGER HAD CONTACTED HIM TO SAY

THAT THE LOST RANDALL KNIFE HAD BEEN FOUND IN WEEDS OUTSIDE

APARTMENT AND WOULD BE RETURNED TO SON. HE IS SURE THAT MANAGER

IS PERSON GUILTY OF STEALING C/88'S PERSONAL EFFECTS, BUT HE IS

SATISFIED NOW THAT HE HAD KNIFE BACK AND IS PREPARED

TO FORGET

THE OTHER MISSING ITEMS.

4• SON WAS UNABLE TO AGAIN LOCATE

THESIS, WHICH HE

BELIEVES WAS DESTROYED BY ONE OF CARA'S MALIGHTERS. HE HAD NO

OBJECTION TO BADENDICK CONTACTING

POSING AS NEPHEW TO

EXDIATN LOSS OF THESIS AND SAID HEOGWOULD BACKSTOP

BADENDICK TO

06

AS COUSIN IF EVER ASKED.

HE VOLUNTEERED TO CALL

WHOSE NAME HE DOES NOT KNOWS, IDENTIFY HIMSELF AS SON, AVO

INTRODUCE BADENDICK AS COUSIN, WHICH OFFER BADENDICK DECLINED

WITH THANKS.

5.

PARTING WAS VERY AMICABLE, WITH SON EXPRESSING HOPE THEY

COULD MEET AGAIN FOR ANOTHER CHAT SOMETIME. WISH REITERATE

PARA 8 REF• ANTICIPATE NO FURTHER SECURITY CONCERNS IN THIS

CASE,

6.

FILE:

201-948067.

EZ IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

