104-10186-10167,

rer a)

a

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

14 meweeni contains mivraatice affecting tbe National Dyfvase of tbe Tuned flee wibin the meaning of tbe Riplonage Laws, Tree
{URC Fe 25d ene 3 tir tannminion ar tvientoog ce HE te say Mentor fo Am Gnevebortand paces i probbited 7 tae
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
‘couNTRy Cuba REPORT NO, = CSCI-316 /01256-65
SUMECT “MAYRA" (an alias) \ DATE DISTR. «18 March 1965 -
ce ae
‘ NO. PAGES, 1
REFERENCES ==» CS-311/00115-64 .
(Page 11) 7
peceeee 8 July 196
DATE OF 1 364 ; ae b
a Washington, D. C.
DATE aca. March 1965 FELD REPORT NO.

TSS _UNEVAIUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE OETINITIWE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments : 8. ace URW

The following report is one of a series containing versonatseye urd oe Clq
information provided by the source and includes supplemental Ot Rep, © Onny
information from the records of this Agency. "Odticg

It is requested that the addressees ‘take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. "MAYRA" is the secretary of Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, chief
of the MI Section (The Department of Technical Operational
Support) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General
Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2. "“MAYRA," whom source believes to be a Cuban citizen,
was born between 1940 and i945,.is about five feet eight
anctes tall, weighs approximately 120 pounds, and has a thin build.
She has a white complexion with red cheeks, blond hair, and
- green eyéS. She has a small, straight nose; a small chin and
mouth;_a thin face and thin lips; a long, thin neck; and even
teeth.

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this read reveal no additional identifiable
information on "MAYRA |

8
SECRET : .
NO FOREIGN DISSEM ard 4
roa
Gate Tamer Tran Tare Tie KRKX __Toce Teer 2
REP CINCLANT —_CINCSO_# _1&5S
iow Feld Sex aie oor BE)

ASC AH yescr-316/012584
1 Tain/ay ra

Fa ENN :
“WHC S (1), WEL (1), CI 4, Fn 1

ylBR

