104-10195-10003}

HOU! SELCUT cree OW ASSASSINATIONS STAFF ESTERS ~~
‘- SECRET

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: yyy 4 Co 7 GTamnse B. _

INCLUSIVE DATES: 27MM Gu (956 = 15 BAA Lf Pho ia
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OFFICE oF PE.

ROM: _SE/3?

E

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

SIGNATURE OF
REVIENING OFFICIAL

Z

‘a save SLLOSTIM

XO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE,

SECRET



REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

Taina omata [3 eamt fates Wadley

oisres 7]

3 Ratvat GF Rena AGRON

RESIRATION *

151 66 _|
Tero yoo Psy Cant NO Crane
a noes > a
one xjowo | 6135 16h

ae

Sure FOR OP3 SUPPORT “ gavavg 6

7 CaRanEATONAL OERONATONS . [19 RCATOW OF OFFAL STATION

Vy Senn Oa

PISCA, ACCT ASST e— | 1369 |

SF

1 Caakea stevie OESGNATION

TT CUSGMARONTEMSRE ECTR oast Yio BitraROna Samia Tia GRADE SP
0501.03 1 —~ o7 ai

17 tua Ora

3 6890.

% Staff Sxployee Special

Subject is re-ewloyable
Resienation Nexto Attached

ma “

esr

ny LE

Grou

bute

fF SGNO
Soveet BY ads me Apis

ory mena wns
om

ae

Sack onOW 10 Txauaive ust OF tHe ops OF FIRsONNEA

Dale SEND

a ee

Th en aan

Test Towa
. ia

Trea iw COOP

“© 800

iat SUNT WO

in

eek
Sia ta oat

7

»

poem mcane co
vem



7 i SECRET

_-_AMPLOWEL NOTICE OF BISIGNATION
tmesion cinco 3 AS Le 4: oC pon im rouomnc eeason, Ny 4g;
ee : g

ba Or

; AY 66 :
| CIO. i Man Reon

Date tone

“AY LAST WORENG OAY Wi BE

ELE OA - MOPAR

£55 (Newher, Soret Cite, tam, 0p Coded

INSTRUCTIONS

The initiating office should ‘nll in each of tht refctenced:itenis. | Items § thru 7 and 9 thea
Periains only cw the action requested, and NOT to the current
ged.

Jeems 1 thru 7
and = 18 require information which
Trems 9 thru 182) status of che employce unless’ specitic items temain unc!

ployment” should show one of the following entries:

tiem $= "Category of

Regular Semmet WAE!
Part Time Decail Out Consultant
Temporary S| Detail th Military

~ Temporsry-Pare-“Time

as” should show wif levels of organization pertinent to identi
jon:

lem 9 — “Organizational Designati
ing the location of the pos

gx] Macr Component (Ditector, Deputy Director, ett.)
F2L_Othce, Major Stal
Fore

5 te
Items 11 and 15 ~ “Position Title” and “Occupational Series” should be the stundard Bbreviated title and
corresponding occupational series in Handbook of Oficial Occupational Titles and Codes
for the duties actually to be performed by the employee. Mf different from the title and
serivs of che position occupied 4s shown on the most current edition of the Position Con-

trol Register of Form 261, Stafing Complement Change Authorization, explain under lem
18—Remarks,

Tem 18b — Sigiature should be that of the official cuthorrzed to approve for the Cateer Service to which
the employee belongs. If more than one Cateet Service involved, the guinzag Career Serie
te should approve and the othet Catcet Servwe should concur in Item (a Remarks.

ROUTING~ The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel through the appropriate
Career Service official(s). tn the case of requests specthed in HB 20-800-1, which require advance
approval of of autilication to the Office: of Security oF the thee of the Comptroller, ane copy only

will be sent to che Office(s} concerned.

SECRET



: “ SECRET os

x : Haan 2 a ald begin

pave reavanto

9 Novenber 1965

yp REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL AC ON.

Trane aaa nade]
WILOUTT,, Jains Bey Jee '

[raat Reoea aan :
~ SXCEPrED APPOINTMENT # at eee W131 1G5| REGULAR

-. ee
ie >| Tee oy Sg ie nS en a Cape Rw
ory ene res ae
+ SST BSNS 1. voeanow 6 on ;
| U.S.Fleld : Vd
wh SMAAYE .
Deputy chief of Station for Operational Support
Finance Branch
TST
FISCAL ACCT, ASST. (sh) | 1969 SF
Te ARON SODA i EB oa ‘Setorara Has io aase wo TP Ta oe
(07)

as 0562.03 67 (h) 6890 eae

ie wean a

SAVE,

12 POSTION HUBER 17 CARER SERVICE OSGRATION

Staff Beployee Special. eee gga

LOIS

Te Ria sin Ome aa pp a IR RS mT
9» TER MOR IS

Beer be Our fe:

CASHMAN 5 chm/Pork,

es
LCFAEF 137
a [Gmc ot
by Be

(ie eee | JP,
a a OO a SY
ne Ce Coe
morte fet [Ee = \

|
3 oe a 7 ia wea
Ce a
EES er SS

[ax PERO COnTIOL CHTVICATION:

oar US2
oar st perous tomore : SECRI ew on : '



~ SECRET S a e

oe . 19 how Ula to)

FISCAL ACCT. ASST," 4 : SP
Ve CASSEICATION SEMOUIE (G5. EA. hd is occurationa stmt v “| Saar ow eae

a 0501.03 *

rein Bait wemeo
5 Ee ere ty i
Tat
é CASMUN, C/N/Pere! sts

int stance Tm mnent
oot (ot

oot :
ar saan fa, concen Gncan oma Ey
foo et pe =e ee eT feop DATA >|
LEPEES 1

[oe seco [or ins auf aca War tet vent aE ‘Seca seats 0d

ane eo) farms [ood [coor Toon [mate mi oe
ete Es :

lee
D Tia oie o ait ta oa
roast] cove Toc. tas tava frou tev Yee ia ro

pmo ravons ace
0 eae SIE fn a
tan avd Ss Pw 3 ars re bay

teat revi joer ean 3 Ty .

ra]

‘Bart arROVED

PRCT S

fan 1S2 Use reewous eomiont SECRET SALE
rs)
mah nowe Seater


Fonvaré operat: ons Station = Tifave

ty for

ese Sranch .
i “[iesmocm ae
FISCAL A007. ASST. Q#. :
17 SRRREATON Sona TER TA Tad Ya ee erie fia Ginae ana P

3s ee OfeT 03 > 07 (hy

im sation [it att. 20 ‘ain fas ont on rin ace ‘aii of cued [7 cate vs
an

wba ve ae

99995 | Bicep isle rie Mal oH

anaes baat ear och ft waa Pa
aya pce ee ah
/ : iia gue

Dios cow an toa clin uncon [90 Feo walt sweat Ft SOC Semi 40"

eS

Tra cea aa
ee To a ron sent [cose [mo tas tatmrtion
EELoiecwimy | o | se e

tiie : =
7 ESNRS Seo = 1o| @

poemON ConRS GTEATON

bs

255 N52 use enous enw



Ciiecm : ‘ SECRET fae as i

thea #6 i : _ .
i REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION ecaaenies
Stee : ig Apri] 1yt5
T. Seera qeveen | #. NAW (Lope Pleet-widdle) ae a

WILCOT?, Jazes Bey Jie

Br waTuae cf PeaseNNEL ACTION:

y (Conpleted by |

cr to cr

Division
‘tax Accor Brenci: |

Te. poseTios TITLE {[tts Position wowace

Ouro

fe Sinance Acsintwrt @.
1a, CLASSIP IeaT ION SomERAE (08, LO, ae ‘occuratiobwetraits [tas ceaoe AND STEP

os10.16 | OF we Y

19. EAREGH SERVICE DESTOKATION

T
i
re Tr. SaLany ow Ral
i

GS

Fre. acuaans,

Piviston
ACE BELOW FOR EXCLUS!

ie THE OFFICE na

Tahoe reas RET Res aes aio
ce Coot rot |
tw ei Taare peste [iste
co ware neta
alias 7B. i
Boa RT fed, soe, Be Pees, cow, fern [Oo cane cl Cxrrrrrrores
recor wef canvas
! Paey ine
on Tae ear, [or tare
eee foe care re
GS. PossTi se GoNTeOL CERTIFICATION

foaTe aPPaSvED

Lee fied

coer SECRET ~ Ee o



Olu: _Z7 ArH BD

Tsuna wea | mame (east rast wtOoKR)

025798 - | WILCOTT JAMES B UA

7 aatant oF Prtscestt Action ,

RESIGNATION ~

7 oat Genii wo, GREAT

$277 NNN3 ARAn

TGC on Gtate-ttead aaTaaaiT®

9 obtaaizaTionat Disvemationy

1 LocaTioa OF GfFiGiAL sTatvoH

Ti Ponitiow Tite

FINANCE ASSISTANT

WF Position winite

O470

Ta Hanet etsIORETIOR

SF

Ta CLaGaTiON SeHEBULE Te, TH, wc) 15, OCCOPaTIONA SERIES

as OB 10,18

Ta Geant moo ata

wy

Te sauna On eae

6850

SGwATUAE Ci OTE. ATHAGITEATION -

Form Use Previous *
er Eaton



perrrrrrersetry i

02s798j

OO Gane

Wig Wawa

Regular

Tecost COMER mo, Cnanare POs cEGAL
ame

5277-0003

Gifice ef Personnel)

‘aurwon tty (Completed by

8. ORGANIZATIONAL SESLGRATIONS

DDS OFFICE OF FINANCE

Confidential Funds Division
Compensation and Tax Accounts Branch
Contract Agents Accounts Section

TO. Location OF OFFICIAL STATION

Washington, D.C,

Th eesiviow TITLE,

Finance Assistant

12, POSITION NUWOCR,

13, CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

Ye. CLASSIFICATION SDEDNLE (G3, LB, ete.)

cs

|

i ad € 470 SF
Va. oceuPaTiowas gthita [Fe GRADE ano STEP

051016 eR TLS

oer a

* 6650

cre

From: re]
Scour Apzro

trated ty Ps, spas Lele :

caLaeaa\|

ey eh ey aA
4

Ice ~ See
ice + Payroll w/
Forms We4 aud

TOR: SHCHATURE CF AESUESTING OFFICIAL

Acting Chief, CST Division

= low FOR

XCLUSIVE USE CF [HE OFIRCE OF PE!

wes [Rew |
cent ere fo

Baste

as

toaw

Porat

gate apaaves

ect by



: : \ : SECRET

(then FLEE ty

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

Towra nouees | by wane (Uaeh Pisst-widale)
925738 7 sxwcorn, JAMES FL, JR.

WATURE OF PERBONNEL ACTION

Fumo >

ONGANIZATIOWAL DT

DDP FE

TKO
SUPPORT STAFF

Position THTKE 12, Position muwaER  [t3. CAREER SLAVICE CESFGRATION

FISCAL ACCT ASST | (Oey 3167 SF
7 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (05, LD, ere.)| 18. GCCUPATIONAL SERIES [18. GRADE ARO STEP 47. SALARY OR Wi

Gs @§x 0501.03 [6 7 03 * 5,910

prversy

FROM: GS- 6 step b

FOR FURTHER INFO, CALL XS27). i

ee wa bate Steneo
YT VS Cee pw
IEE AUSTIN, CFE/PERSOY Los se a 9/11/63
SPACE BELOW/FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE QEFICE OF PERSONNEL
REN] sae a pay [aH a

wie

PRrar mranee ay E r Part

ca fesee
price

ae EVER Te

sagen Tee cate

Tree neg 3185) ot fect

iSeer ten 9 ves)

G3. PqSTIOw CpnTROL CLATIFICATION

SECRET


|

Derren)

SECRET

(ones Fel tee toy

Date PRePaeeD

13 October 1961

[. Gatecoay oF turLovyen?

creer

ALI7-7 221-20

‘aurnon ity, (Completed by
Personne!)

~ GHGAWAZATAGNAL DESIEXATION SZ

DDE,
FE/JAO =

rE
Support Stalt= + = vt

TeeAtiOn OF OFFICIAL STATION

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

7 POSITION TITLE

dost

TE. POSET ION MUMOER

SF

al_Acct
TexAsstr ication sOueauce (ROR, ote.) | To

D=07.

OccuPaTvonat sentes

501,03

Rade AND STEP

oe

17, Satany Om WATE

2.

cs.
ewan

Promotion frax

ance 32

VOL. SUGHATURE OF REQULSTING OFFICIAL

Date gronto ee Stomp yap or eet

&
Cas

Et avPa own

Es Rmed

USE_OF WHE OFFICE OF,

PERSONNEL

ease fp

; mt

1152 vse recereag fevrden.

oP, aPeaowaL



1
i
‘i

APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
in the CAREER STAFF of the

"To the Director of Central Intelligence :

Sir: '
be herewith my application for membership in the Career Staff of the
Central Inteliigence Agency as defined below: fe
“The Career Staff of the Central intelligence Agency is a group of
carefully selected ond trained individuals who accept ‘an obligation to
devote themselves to the needs of the Agency, and who intend to make
a caréet with the Agency.”
In accordance with this definition, 1 desire to.devote myself to the faith-
ful performance of duty in the Central Intelligence Agency, and | accept the
obligations and conditions of that service which are determined to be essen-

‘tial to. the furtherance of its mission,

tam aware of the many restrictions necessarily placed upon me by virtue
of the security requirements inherent in my employment by the Central Intelli-
gence Agency. | amalso aware that as a member of the Career Staff, it will
be my obligation 10 serve anywhere and ot any time and for any kind of duty
as determined by the needs of the Agency,.and | have been assured that in
order to carry cut this policy, full consideration will be given to my particular

* “capabilities, interests, and personal circumstances. By virtue of this applica-

tion for membership and upon my acceptance in the Career Staff, ! am assure
that, with cort’-ying satisfactory work performance and conduct on my part,
just and equitadie attention will be accorded my personal progress during my
tenure in the Career Staff. .1 om also assured that, on my sctisfactory com-
pletion of any assignments, | will be offered reassignments which are compati-
ble insofor as possible with my abilities and career interests, and that | shall
te entitled to tre benefits now available or to-be made available in the future
to members of the Career Staff of the Central ee Agency.

ace Bes leet Cee
(Signoture)

MEMBERSHIP IN THE CAREER STAFF OF
THE CENTRAL INTRLUGENCE AGENCY
APPROVED, TO Taxt efFECT_A MAR 1960.
FOR THE DIRECTOR CF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE: es
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ce

THE CIA SELECTION BOARD
bral

Ras

CENTRAL. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY


“PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT 7 4
Dewgnsnons, Case | 15. Location Of Otheial Station

‘Sfetitee of the Vomptroller

Nirarce Mv, Accounts’ franch

Accounting Control Section .

Acets Teceivable and Peyable Unit | wash,, DC.
[18 Doce. Field /17, Pouca Talo 18, Position No. [19.Sen.780. Occup,

Fiseal Acet Clk 0506. est
BR. Salon Or Rate [83 SD z

s
kiked co

[Code, 30. Separation Dats

|

Code

pl

ea. Nanee OF Actice

os 5, £9) Regular

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Reassignnent- ¢ 7 & ¢F

[310 Gros esesnal Dengnazone TT] Rede | 5E Location OF Oihsal Sation 7 Stawon Code
27

aE 39597

fa iE Serv 137. Occup. Sores

| sn

a7, Date Cl Grade 142. wk com ol Nesber
iin Da Ye hin Da. a
0137. 7382.

sontrobeetan

IE Rasuon Approved By (Signature And Tite)

fs Loh
CLEARAN = ne
Bate

Deie | _ Clecrance Signatare =

Cte PTE

2 copies to Security.
Please transfer fror: vonchered t.
Sebjeet to replace

So W188

ro

Tone
ak



REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL “ACTION

B None Gan tui Neddle)

8 UR

WILCOTT, JAMES
CS

P73, Ovoahizatione! Dewignations
OCS OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER

FINANCE DIVISION
COMPENSATION AND TAX ACCTS BR

D.C. Pes

CONTRACT AGENTS ACCIS SECT.

19, Serv, RX Os Serves

e5ig.

"16. Boainon No,

os

86. Appropnation Nunber

mal 6360 20 do

[Codet 3. Sencresen Ri

97. Nature Of Action

Reassignment
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

1. Organcavronal Denignationt
DDS/Office of-the Comptroller _
Finance Diviston, Accounts Branch
Accounting Control Section

_Mash

ol

38. Location OF Ottial Staton Soom Case

lUstid =
tf

Accts Receivable and Payable Unit *2
33 Dept. 34, Position Tide 5. oe 36. Serv[37. CORA Sener
Dept - KX [Coda

Fiscal Acct Clk | 506 | 0501.06

39, Salary O Rate
$4340

SOUR iE OF EUS

(40. SD [41-Dote CfGrade [4¥. PST Due
SP Mo. De. Yr. | Mo. De. Yr,

43, Appropriation Nuaber

0263-1040

IC Request

faved By Gronature And Tule)

Pansy 152

@

=) *
Heendar  |«
Cobptroller
CLEARANCES
Clearance Sigrotwe Signature
A_ Career Board ia Placement
B. Pos. Cont.ol O- Be SD
IC. Clasiihconon f fe Sa ‘Agproved By |x
Remarks . BB:


None (auf Middle)

‘Mo. | Da.

Pear

10 be

rea ae 1 GIES

ill JAMES B UR:

Ee en “PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT” ”

FT. Organizational Detignations

00S OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER
FINANCE DIV ;
ICOM"ENSATION & TAX ACCTS BR
STAFF EMPLOYEES ACCTS SECTION

Tegal Auhoriy. [10. Fork Alfdav.J41. FEGU 138 CD
Pia

Cade | 15. Location OF Othclal Station

WASH.» Do Ce

15013

Field _[17. Position Tide
[Coda] *
2 | TIME Lv PAY CLK

18. Position No. [49. Sorv.[20. Occup. Series

0305 202 Ics

0544.01

(86. Appropriation Nunber

fat. Grado a Step | 82. Salary Or Rate [23. $0

§ 1619. §190_| SF

Reassignment

ACTON

29. Type Of Employee

Regular

A

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT.

(Code; 30. Separauon Daa

 lexegrinces 9-6300-20-004 J

31. Organizauonal Designations:

DDS/Office of the Comptroller
Finance Division

Compensation and Tax Accounts Branch
Contract Agents Accounts Section

Cade

32. Location Of Official Station

Wash. , DC

3 Pope “Feld 134, Poution Valo
feat

Coda]
| Z Finance Assistant

38. Postion Noe 38. Serv 137. Dees
| 0510.14

Siawon Coan

58. Grade & Stop] 38: Salary Or Rate [10.60
5/2 $ 4190.00 SF

2. PS pe 43. Appropnanen Number
Pg 9-6300-20-004

souRtE GF Ree fst

‘Additional Information Call (Nane & Telephone Ext.)

[E Request Approved By (Signature And Title)

CLEARANCES.

Clearance il i Signature Bote 1 Cleorance:
A Cores Board | TD. Plocoment
5 Poa Conwol__f wi os is
C. Chositicauca FE é& T IF. Arproved By
Romcrks it

Tas 12 .

RTS


“REQUEST -FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

ue
rh ails
a Aig]
a Algae

30 Separsnon Sos

Zz PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
FE Lacan OF Oca Seanon

i. Organizanonal Dengrauone Cole [seston Case
Drs/Office of the Comptroller
|Pininee Division

[Seaponaation and Tex Accouite Branch | 2 3 |

Staff Euployees Accounts Section Wash.
33 Osee Fld 134. Penson We SRna pas sen a7 eae Sonar
usd « Time Leave Pay Clk 1005.02 | 0544.01
f28, Grade a Sten | 39. Seley Or Fate [40 SD [ar Daas Gi Gaada | 783. Aperopnaien Naber
$ Mo. Os. Yr, » Ya |
sft 3670.00 vr of] 4 rie 8-6304-20
ERD Ea RCE OF REQUEST
6 reer [C. keauost Approved By Gionature And file)
. Dh CE eT am Divisson| Lem + ij
Tor ATO a e nr ara ©
Actinoxptreller. _
Clearance Signature
A. Careor Board
}B. Pos. Control y
[C.Clasifcauen Z

Remasia

Waka 152


Asconiing

Fo casione:

Fr Ware (ooh Fissimiealay

REQUEST as PERSONNEL ACTION

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Hienal Designotions
pos/ortice of the Comptroller
Fiscal Division
Accounte Branch

TiS: Cecetton OF Official Shation

Wash., DC

Setlon Code

30,01

7 Position No. [19. Serv] 20, Occup. Series

0501.04

a
Pee] acos.20

a7. Notwe Ol Action

Reassignment

af

Code] 30. Seperation Dota:

131. O-geatsarional Dor
DDS/Uf fice of
Finance Division
Componpation ani Tax Accounts Branch] |
Contract agente Accounts Section

Vy

Big prt Viole 0
“Deputy Chief, Finance
[B. Foe Adduiionat Information Call (Name & Telephone Ext.)

Signore

Pee, Cantal

Subject will replace|

assignzent.

Tay" Viste

who is processing for an o/s



sates ‘PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

jd. Organizarionel Designations Code [15 Location OF Ollicial Sotion

pps/Office.of Comptroller

Fiscal Division
Accounts Branch

Washington, D. C.

nt Ledcor Section.
17. Pasition Title

.~ Fiscal Acct. Clk

PROMOTION

[31. Organtzerienal Designations A Code
pps/office of Comptroller
Fiscal Division

Accounts Branch

Ledger Seetion

yay" Ns2e


Tat ig Sab era bon

2 Wiléott ar
{RATpet oy acon wfcntED:
Riritbotals (Spects = anrher appointment, promotion: sxparstion, ote.)

Excépted Appointment 1

TE POMTIOH (Specaty whether extabliah; change brado.or titin ota)

ra ‘© peerige rie ano w= Fiscal Acct Clk -M 30.01-4
” 1 ernee ee ao G8-0501.0%-4 $3415 pa
F pos /oftice of Comptroller
* Sticatons Fiscal Division
Accounts Branch
z Allotment Ledger Section
tial Washington, D. C.
nao OcrusTuENTaA 12 ELD OR DEPARTHENTAL pre X | seruaranrat

‘A REMAKE (Uoe reverse of nacesear7)

This action cencels Recruitment Request
Personnel Folder 8 attached

submitted under date of 25 June 1956

a

W RQUESTED BY Game and cited

Chief, Fiscal pfvision |
‘Mame ard (elophone extension) |

‘8 REGUERT APPAOYED

Setnatuce:

roa!
| Tatler Acti troller
Theme —! TW PORTION CLASSIFICATION ACTION
none | wnat Tan ¥r. [Brow “|
(pase io
Ix ae 8)/sF
Ell? Mrsoraarion = mans aS a a
| eect omy) | Cjctameo C}rrovzo.
: [Mw | we B-6303-20 | states
| RCSTANDARD FoR SS REARS ee
UYFICE/DIVISTCH PITHIN CEILING o - Ag oan
a Bi @ Gt Grr
: Position RO 43S
002! of feHfST

CLEARANCES

‘8 CEN OR POS CONTROL
© GASIFICATION
1B PLACEMENT Of EA

mS 060010 3/04 ST
COD: 03fo4/S7

SCD. 06/26/53
PSE Bree 03/egisé -

a


CONFIDENTIAL .
Cohen Pitted tn) : : i
are at
10 4;

Tateaveeete

Keil Fe oherty

Reviscs PPL tCATION

ee. ope

Tat mt CinaT wae Wroote want

KILCOT, SMES . yas
: : TLE

none
recconone

Pe on Paint ae

FemNERT a

os

To Business an0R

Tear oauey AgORCas

Ts want =
je Doyo tere (Speci ty counter)

Tir ace oF oeRTw Usds C1TITeNSaIP ACOUIBED BF WATURALIZEO UWOVCATE BATE

Cleveland, Chio : ira

ate

ve. bate oF

Te. MO, OF ouPinds (Becluding eéfo)

Te Eojerene Cid onrne ort

VS. FOREIGN RELATIVES, ,INCLUDING WIFE (Rag. 10-9)
XA

Tipe (Schoale, degrees, dates, wajera, theals tite, Grade avei
ae ater)
Folena Central dign - left at end of first year (1945)
GED (Arzy) Equivalency diploza 1952
Feb. '55 - May '54 - Utica College of Syrecuse University, Utica, Nef. - Paysice xe for~
left wien Lie narks pere.getting too low -sorking 2

Feb. '53 - Present - Central Business ‘School, Syracuse, New York’= Accounting course
-all Ate and 3'9 except 2 C's. (Can ent ccuree in fall or continue)

Tor Teavinad 7
ittendant=

Pasitvess. dutlen,

Ta. waiae EAPLOVNERT widTORY (Employ
Auguet '52 - Dees 152 - Eoao Tower Station, Genesee St., Utreg. NeYs - Sai
k= lak off due to slow business.

atie Tool Co., ty Nee - ergine lathe operater.

wae an uns'tilled job with no future,

vay "58 - Sept. '54.- Tobboran ina, Eagle Say, Nee = Hanoysan w60 wk, plue rocm and
boerd - sumer job.

Sept. '54 - Dec. '54- Century etal Crart Cork, Byracuse, N.¥,, Cookware eclesran
$60 wk.-did not mke out as a sulesians

Le.e 52+ Fe be 155 =

sibilities, fend Bi

VST nes, wtativas, Uralning dete
any Oa RETIRED STATUS.

INCLUDE ALSO ORAFT, ACTIVE 4

MITT adv CAPER TENCE (Branch
fenerve statue, current proficiency and interest).

Cec. 4S = Augist. '52 - U.S. Ary
Eleetrieian anc cenereter oreretor (MUS 5166 - Cpl.
liked the work arc vee considered Suirly good et ite

Fons no. gg Rercacts FoR 37 Te! CONFIDENTIAL aan

1 sce be wrren way Of USED.



CONF DENT TAL

duly '49 = Karch '52

STACCUPTAWLE STATION

IFacreninee Lins ¥aPiGns
Pret'ero /3 and
anywhere

ars

Good

~ Fomes Given

TERA TT veavivedy
Flos iSitviy, intel tiganes,

je

EVALUATION AND

Tit, aeturlty, otiwat
Searsor planning, over

apeeseion, pertinent un

al atebd
favorable factors)

The firet thing of. note ia the scattered work anu educational history of this

fellow. On paper the cane ie all against him but in telking to-him I conclude that
“4b de the case of a guy who failed to get the: proper -job en school guidance when 4
woula have been moat effective (immediately after discharge }. Tho guy hae intelli.
gence (LA/5 €1-G1) but peraaps not the finul grasp cf things to mie a zo of a
“Yecinical degree in College. He probably woula heve done Q.k, with the Liveral Art!
course. At any rate he nas decided on ucoountine ae a career (finds he Lika it
ana can éo it well), He'o hed a touch léfe to say the leaut (how such bearing this
has had on bie career I'x not treined to eveluete.) ly final impreesion is that he’
neat, ciean cut, sincere, reliable, cepeble #f given the proper supervision, Typea
about 40 xpm end 4s learning ehorthans froz his wife (who's applying ae steno). I
think he'd do a cospetent jod am perimps with expcrience and training éo a very
goud one. Kante 0/S at earlivet opportu.ity for financzal reasons.

ReCommtnoes om

j}—__.GS_4_Adsin/ recounting — ~

7e. SCRT AL mUMOE RD

Rs 6h

oherty



SECRET,

BICGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 1) sont

26 Jun 1953

1545 eur? Nilitary Service, US Amy,- Cpl, Electrician & Generator Operator

1852 Esso Toxer Station, Utica, NY = Attendant

1952-53 Chicago Pnotimatic Tool Co, Utica, KY = Bnzine Lathe Operator
Various Sumer & Part-time positions while attending college.

fa wom G18 aoUEATIOS
19S}-5h Utica College, Utica, NY = Physics

1555-57 Central City Businost Institute, Syracuse, NY ~-Ctf, Exce Businoss AdnirZAcetg
ST-S9 USDA Graduate School, DC = Federal Govt Acctg; Matienatics of AcctgéInvestment

Berman = R,P,S,U, SLignt(Nov 1959); W, Elen 1, None = Mar 1958

fre eerwey sromsonea TRatwine
4857 Clerical Intuct 1960 Intro to.Commnisa
1S57 Clerical Orient

1960 Intel Orient

fe cua gerugrutat misvbWy SINCE ID BIDE Ubup (Personae! Aetvane, Wilstary Grdetay ond Prinsipns petaltay
[orrceriat eave] awisisy irce 4 occupations cont ence] se + Sucuysvation # oneom tinue ts? on) | vocatiem
Mar 1957 Fise ect Clerk —0501.0h | 4 ; SF / Coupt/Fiscal Div/Accts Br Hq
Sep 1987 . gissi "= " fy ry

Feb 1558 Finance Asst 5 (SF | Conpt/Fin Div/ConpiTax Accts Br *

Nar 1958 {Mnre,Lv,Pay Clerk ieee cris et TeeeeE etestoe. Baa ae PetEEEeesteseuiaE SL)

Mar 1989 Pinsnee Asst FeSi [ss een ge ®
Oct 1559 ise Acet Clerk 5 |S! Conpt/Pinance Div/Accts Br Ld

May 1960 Acct Asst 5 i ss | moP/FE, pt Str

Nov 154 Peete 6 ISF; dial ¥

Sep 1963 eo oe ow Tisri" "5 oe " "

Finance Asst 7 | SF j 00S/Pinanse/CF Dix/Compltaxtehta Hq”

Ty vas ie eit
[TP asteee te eter

SECRET jk PROFILE a



\ . SECRET 1

jokes Felted te

BIOGRAPHIC “PROFILE (PART 2)

Fens, stern woe
i

2879

FIELD CASEMENT QUERTIONN AIRE

j) SOENTSTY OF OTHER DOCUMENTS OMICH BROULD GL MEWIEREO Um OCTANE

iy are wevieweD
23 Kov 196
1200 {PART 2) sersees

eeven

PROFILE


PORTION TITLE i

Fiscal Acct Asst

foctory. A roti

jing, tofu
tn Section Ce

ctory. Desized rosults ore being produced in a proitctent manner.
by exceptional profielency. ‘ H

<P + Broligient
$+ Stong |”

othors doing similor work as to warrent special recognition,

ng in thio eorogory roquiron
or Wolning, Fo plecing on

netther ty defleleney nor

O- Quistonding Performance Is 80 exceptional In refation to requirements of the work and in compatison t0 the performence of

[List up to six of the most importont specitte dur
Jmenner in “hich employee performs EACH
th supervisory responaibilities MUST be

¥ rating Istter which best describes the
In performance of that duty. All employeos

TPRCIFIE DUTY WOT

As Station Cashier, responsible for tho aaty: receipt and disbursement of
cash P.S. dollars, NPC).

Consolidates all Station cash transactions to one voucher and verifies

balance daily.

RaTin,
tatren

P

SPECIFIC DUTY WO D

Suanarizes all Station transactions for off-base housing and vehicle oxpendi=
tures into monthly accountings and maintains appropriate subsidiary records.

Cerrar

P

UTE Roe

olices individual housing and vehicle advance accounts and audits related
accountings.

wating
cetren

:

sracivic outy One
Naintains statistical records on private rentals by individual house and

cost centers.

terren

eivie OUTY wae

Advises TOY travelers of thoir entitlements, audits the travel vouchers, and
performs other related duties as assigned by the Finance Officer.

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Toke Into account everything cbout the emp!
fermonce of specific duties, productivity
particular Hmitetions of talents, Bored
place the letter In the toting Bex correep.

15 JUL Samii

TSE" 45 cosovera cnevious sorrows,

corres

P



NARRATIVE COMuENTS mii arp

demoiatared In euriant position k
F work parformence,

Weinogenil oe sebueghey Fy Mh

“Subject bas porforsied his duties in a conpetont manor. Uasjonyyg huge cums
of money with fev errors, end maintains the,necedsary statistical records. -

Cost consciousness arid managensnt of ofgantzatton ascote dose not apply to
thts postions

CERTIFICATION
BY EMPLOYEE

/a/ James Wilcott
BY SUPERVISOR

MoNTHE EMPLOYEE Wat DEIN [iF THIE REPORT WAT NOT BEEN SHOWN TO GmPLOVER, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNORR MY SUPERVISION

Gr SUPERVIOOR NTR

Finance Officer [ef Pronk Wells
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OuaENTE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Subj 9 held the position of Finance Disbursing Officer since his arrival at
in Kay 190, He has performed well in a function for which he had no
“PFSVios experionce or training, With a realignnent of the office workload in
. December he was given the additional responsibility of processing TDY truvel, Due
to his specialized work, he haa not had the opportunity to be trained in other
facets of finance work, He iizs been schoduled for Finance training upon his
return to Headquarters in July 1964,

‘GPPICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFI =| VORo On PRINTED NAwE AND SIGNATURE

Finance Officer.


{
{
‘

FITNESS REPORT

GENERAL

ined (iadiey

7. A rosing In

100 oF propoced In Section

Parlormanes 1a more then sailsfectory. Desired results ore being produced In @ proficient monner,
1s choroctorized by excep!

+ Qutstonding Performance
others doing

Counasling, 80 husther ain ‘te ptecing on

‘As Station Cas responsible for the dally receipt and-disbursement of
cash U. S. dollars, MPC).

Sadie oUTT nO
Consolidates all Station cash transactions to one voucher ana verifies balance
daily.

SPECIFIC DUTY WOT

Summarizes all Station transactions for off-base housing and vehicle expendi-
tures into monthly accountings and maintains appropriate subsidiary records,

seucinic OUrW woee
Polices individual housing and vehicle advance accounts and audits related
accountings,

Rate

jsPecinie ourv no. 8

Maintains statistical records on all private rentals by individual house and

Cerven

cost center. a
Cirrte

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

aayind

is alfactivancss in hie curent parition such 08 pate
‘sone! woits or hobira, ond

formonce during the rating period

‘cceuetely reflects his level of perbormonce.

which Influence

productivity,
Bored on your knowl

Bloc the lta i th ting You cvcnonding the

20 uy sey ©

Catren

P


RET co i

(ehen Felted te)

: - Subject { is conseléntious, industrious, and willing to accept all
responsibilityassigned him, -He has performed his duties ina competent.
manney: and has shown a-marked interest if learning all facets of his job,

‘Subject.at times gives. the impression (whether warranted or not) of being
uricertain in his thinking, and he does not always seem to exercise his
best judgment in reaching decisions, but he is phatien J to’ eradicate this

impression.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS _
BY EMPLOYEE =

T CERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN ‘4, 8 AND C OF THIS REPORT
Taianavune OF EMPLOTEE

i_/s/ James B. ¥ilcott
BY SUPERVIEOR
iF Td REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SnOeN TO EMPLOYER, GIVE EXPLANATION

TIWPED Gn PRINTED NAME ANG HIONATURE

TOW FICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVIEOR

i H
i ae
| Pinance Officer ‘Ust bed

“BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

‘COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Concur In the evaluation,

[errs TITLE OF REvidwiNG OFFICIAL ‘dasa FaInTED NAME ANO HONATURE

| Adm Officer | /S/ Douglas 8. Trabue



BICGRAPHIC PROFILE (rear ) com

Sa ror

remorrors

7 corny
prereey

statue 7
passesseteroare

ia. Prov atieway Test Date vas cascuacd aPtiToe

Kone_ | san 1960

vst

_ ‘Esso Tower Staticn, Utica, lf = Attend
952853 Chicago Preunatic Tool Co, Utica, KY - Encine Lathe Operater -
Various Sumer & Part-tine set while att baie college

igueese Eilitary Service, US Amy ~ Cpl, Electrician & Generator Operator

Te. wows ra €oueaTION

1953-Sh_ Utica Coltero, Utica, NY = Physies

1955-57 Central City Busines= Insti ustey Syracuse, NY = Ctf, Exce Business Aa: nintdcete 1
1957-59 USDA Graduate School, IC. Fedoral Govt Aectg; Mathematics of Acctgélavestnent |

!

fr fer, «German = R,P,S,U, Slight(Kov 1959); W, Eleny 7, None - Mar 1958

fie. Accmer sensceta Taainine

1957 Clerical Induct 1960 Intro to.Commnisa
1957 Clerical Orient :
ra) Intel . Orient

4
|
|

ir ri (uriovute? MISTORY SINCE 14 SCOT Uva? (Pevsonnel Aetn

Petorte)

ferecetive Oat | PesiTiON TARLC a occuratiowat CO”

oy

Nar 1957 sc Acct Clerk — 0501.6 | 2
an 0501.0,

Psa

Passes peniaasaanannn

8
12)

5

| 5 [se ance Div/tects Br
15 (SF) | Spb Ste

6 isp, ss

Tissit «8 oe ®

Fingace Asst 0510.16; 7 | S¥ | DDS/Finance/2? Dirfoemplteatepta iq

_

Sy aco (Pant on



Sep 127

Ta. VOENTITY OF Olmta DOcuM(nTs aniew GNOVLD BE BEVIERED Tw SETATN

jo wane SECRET Sle PROFILE



eaereee eee pee SECRET )

: FITNESS REPORT a 025798
GENERAL

iFirst is je oateo ain tw Jivaex

Jamies B., Je. !

TOF P CIAL PotiTiOm THLE
Fiscal Acct Asst

- pre s wf Resignation
TPR RE PONTING PERIOD (Frome tod

26 Apr 65 - 15 Apr 68

nos
jacing on

lormonce Iafoctory and Is charactartzed
excellence,

Performonce is mora then satisfactory. Desired results ore boing produced In o proficient manner.
Performonce is chorectarized'by oxceptionol proficiency.

Performance 1s s0”axcentional Ia rototion to reavirements of the work and in comparison to the perfermonce of
others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition. is . :

_ SPECIFIC DUTIES

resi ods ser sting latter which best arcane the
jerviaory tetpensibrlitios MUST be roted . Leejps paliad elfaapees oral zeal cad
SPECIFIC CUTY HOTT ESts, Computes and verifics cover companies T Cartas
commercial payrolls involving. approximately |persons, Prepares}
and verifies all salary checks, An accounting machine is used H

— | Lor... or athe per ase east: He
SFecirié ovFy No? Maintains both overt commercial and covert pay records,:

files, etc. for staff employees, staff agents, contract employces ;
and agents. Maintains leave records for WAE contract employees |
and all staff personnel __ a i
sreewic ouryno? Recnonsible for timely payment of monthly tax deposits , {fii%

** ‘land preparation of the quarterly Federal Withholding and Social |
Security tax returns of the cover companies

srecinie curv 40“ Initiates dispatches-and cables to Headquarters and | |
Field Stations on all matters pertaining to pay, leave and payroll
deductions of staff.cmployees, staff agents and contract employees:

rr LeTTEs

so" 45 WME PRL eIOUE COHTOMN. SECRET



SECRET,

Bsainkd : Takeative GRSERTE
passion Urepeng 13
\ performances Gree

fSplity oF ebplonn eurin

New te lanonship to

3:09: Comment
Mowe be

requied for eutreat post
for derermning Nie personnel ection:

Seetion © amas v vepcane anger of popers

During the period Subject was in charge of os Payfoll Section

at JNWAVE Nis performance’ was, in the rater's gp {nion, not ‘more
than adcquate, “He apparently was of the opinicg! Thi being in
charge of a section relieved him of the oncrous tasks of. filing
‘and other related -duti¢s:of like nature. As far as meeting the
payroll <deadlines Subject was proficient -itr-this duty, but he
normally xequired considerable amount of overtime work to meet
these deadlines, He had mary ideas which he presented to Chief,
Finance Branch for betterment of the payrolling system, but un=
fortunately after duc consideration the majority of these ideas
were found to be impractical and/or in violation of either good
accepted commercial practice or Agency regulations, Suggestions
made to-hin were outwardly accepted but upon follow-up it was
determined that he had failed to implement these suggestions.
Overall it is the rater's opinion that the Subject was barely
-adequate in performing his assigned tasks,

SECTION D
is

iF THis REPONT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVEE, GIVE ERPLAI

Subject departed the Station without seeing
this Report.

wtie oF

mon re eas
UNDER NYS

FEO NAME ane

~] bed Ge
{sf H, Robert Graham

Fin Banc]
oars Wane VEE SING! DE RICH

wate

i
212_ronths. = |

17 Jun 1966

TE OF REViEwIWG OFFICIAL

Subject resigned and departed the Station rather suddenly

and before there was an opportunity to observe his performance,
‘ The supervisor has made a careftil evaluation with which I concur,

oate “forriciac nitce

6 July 1966

VIERINE OFFICIAL [VVAED OF PRINTED NAME AND

jDeputy Chief for Support: /s/ Wilhicm A, Jewett

SECRET



ry Trai
WILCN2, __Jezzea

Parerriciac Position HTK
Firance Assistant.

‘Wchecn (x) TYPE OF AppoInTwenT

[reseee

a Treeronany

inoe thas = Seation )

Teeatsianuent surrivison|

ation, to feessignment oF to

Perloumance eects all requirements.

Perlormence is characterized by exe;
Performance is 40 except

Poilormence tonges from wholly Inadequate \
i the eer

others doing similor work ag to wortant special

thon sotiefectory. A revi

ily I

in taken of proposed in Section C.

{tis entirely satiafoctory ond Is chorectorized neither by daficlency nor

Peslermence Hi more then sctialcctorys Dosited results ore boing oroduced In @ prefvcivat manner.

2 wetegory reaui
‘could range from counseling, to henee training, 10 pl

ILtat up to sin of the most impertont specific d

th acgervisory responsibilises MUST

performed-d

Jmonnee in which employee purforms EACH specilic duty. Cons
Ton thoit obi

ing the soneg

supervite (indicate number of ompicrena eurervived.

hod. Insort rating letter which best describes the
OULY elfectiveners in performance et thar-duty. All employers

¥. eondust on

preducin
id on you Knowle

3

formance of specilie di

{SETAE ocsoners enavious corrtons.

is

Tore mss account everything ebout the employee which influences hit ellectivencay in his eu

ending te te Mtatement waich mast cuewetaly rofiects hus tavel af pevfer mons

poe

such es per
‘coarststeaneth, peitiment petaonal mers ce Rabies, cmd
of erplayee's cverail

iy perisimance dureg te tute] pereoest

SECRET

TPES OUTY NO, ia satis eo
a care
Analyzing Payroll Accounts P
TREE TT HOT Rane
“Reconciling Tax and Retirement Accounts P
BCE BUT HOT Cart
Computing Steff end Career Agents’ Pay and Allowances ‘ P
SPecinie Buty NO. e : Cr
Conducting Lisiscn with our Division regarding Payroll matters. a
aeeewei DTT ee : cy
Preparing Correspondence a A
pecans Bury wae : ane CATS |
Maintaining Leave reconis and Agents' Puy Files P
ae OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURFENT POSITIC Eisai

F



SEGIONC

Indicare signifcons sensih
[Soovell yordormane
Saloresgn lone
Soule ter danetoicing fone pevtonnal ecto 3
seetlestle.

Acccunts Secticn, demonstrated the ability to accept responsitd:
and respéndéd well te all work acgicnments. Mr. Wilectt vas a gre
whelp in reconciling s=3 unalyzing Payroll, Tax, and Retirement accounts.
He worked well with his associutes and had a good disposition.
Mrs Wilcott 1s very sccperutive and dependstles - :

t have any éupervisory respenstbilities
ot being rated on Cost Conséicusness,

‘Tis exployee &
and, therefore, is

r

Bate

30 April 1965

Ti BOPERTIOR ana t
POAT WAG NOT DLEN Gt

aK
EAVISION

6

ate carey

UnoeR Mr sur

30 April 1965
3 BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL a
CouuENTS OF weviEsiNG OFFicIaL seameeae

I concur.

Teor

Cia a
"30 aprit 19



a is AECRET . : _

(aie Fal tea tet

rererrercirecccsrry

FITNESS REPORT 005758

thon) Tava tavaaiey atm [3 aux [es cnaor if cry

Wileott, Jones Be Jr -| M___ | GS-07

Torrent vouTiow tite OF ainionmeaT}
a Picéal Acct Asst Fe[ :
Renee tai tee ve MENT extalyire or neront
= T + -
X Jeane voiae/ Ec tiilinaaeenaaz
z

iaainatane «Bealten €)

cian (Speci

WE. REPORTING PERIOD (Frome to)

-_h July 1963 - 30 June 1964

nce Fenges from wholly inode:
dial action. The not avning, #9 plac
signmant of fe neporetion, Dae in Section C.

Performonée is characterized by oxcapticnal proficiency. a

Parlormcnce 1s 40 exceptional in satotion 10 1 of the work and In compartion to the portotmance of
orzers doing similar work ex to warrant szacicl ra

1a of the most Important specific duttes performed during the r

rervteed’,

3 Statin Cashier, responsible for tiv daily receipt ond disbursenent of
caoh U.S, dollers, HPC).

SPECIE OUTY 80
vonsolizates ell Station cash transactions to one voucher and verifies
balance daily.

nai | SERA

accountings.

areeinie ote net
Keintains statistical reconés or. rive
cost centers,

SPECIFIC DUTY wa. ® zi
ices 2b¥ travelers of their enti
otzer related duties as assi

L_PERFO; ANCE IN

amployee which
ivity. eonduer om
don yeur bnowle,



SECTICN C

oq Fersign language gam petence, oe
Board fer determining Future parvonsel ection. Manne

spelicoble. :

Subjoct hud performed his dutios inc ot ere EIN pyy base cixza
of money with few errors, and malritains the.nécessary statiotical recor. i

“Cost consciousness and managenorit of organization ascots dors not apply, to
this position.

TecaniFY D
signature or euPLored
/s/ Jones Wilcott

—_____BY SUPERVISOR HELE
iF Tad WEPORT WAS NOT NO EMPLOYER, GIVE EXPLANATION

WORTHS EMALOVEE Was REIN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

23

TITLE OF SUPERVISOR YT RVPEO On PninTED NAM
Finance Officer [sf Frent: ells
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

3. NGSOE

COuMENTS OF RE TE Baeeaeet

e hag porforncd well in a function for whic’ he kad no
ning, With a realignzent of tie office workiosd in
ility of processicg TLY travel
@ traised

in Nay 1980.
previous ezporience or <re

Deceabur fe waa siven the aiditional re:
y he bas not ed the opportunity to

2 has been sch

ED aut any Hawator

Rig OF Ficiay | VPED OW

e Of : [Fi meee pee

1) SEGR



25733

i teary wowaee

‘GS-6.

menus
seeeran Gweini
pod vine

1 Jul-62 - 30
EVALUATION

!
i

i
tory. Desired results ore being produced.ta o proficient manner,

céptionel proficiency.
ments of the work and In comparison ¥

© performance of

O- Dutttending Pa

oth

describas the

ing letter which be
All emeloye

mance of

RAT
cere

responsible for the daily receipt and disbursement of
U. S. dollars, MPC). P

1 TH Faria
SPuCIFIE OUT NO. T | cerree

Consolidates all Station cash transactions to one voucher and verifies balance

: | dally. P
SPLFIE BUTT HO. > | ras
Summarizes all Statioa transactions for off-base housing and vehicle expendi- |

tures into monthly accountings and maintains appropriate subsidiary records,

sie nae

recivie Oute wO.*
Polices individual housing and ychicle advance accounts and audits related
accountings, y

BPecinic DUTY HO. D

{certs
Maintains statistical records on all private rentals by individual house and !
|

cost center,

SPECIFIC OUTY NO. ©

RATS
cerita

Performs other related duties as assigned by the Finance Officer. Pp

oat ere enavious cortions,

for

43 caro


SECTION ©

tor deterenaing foture per sens
bla.

impression.

Mt requeed tor eve

nidnner and has si

nal ectecn, be

Subject fs conscientious, ‘industrious, and willing to accept all
responsibility assigned-him. . He-has performed his dutics in a competent
ind | Wii'a ia ed Interest in learning all facets of his job,
“Subject at times gives thé impression (whether warranted or not) of being
uncertain in his thinking, and he docs not always seem to ¢xercisehis
best judument in-reaching decisions, but he is striving to eradicate this

ping In proper
Gi

MN 0

SECTION D
Y

x

(SECTIONS A, 6, AND € OF THiS REPORT

eave

21 May 1963
z

HGNATURE OF EWPLOVEE
{sf Jones B. Wilcott

BY SUPERVBOR

WONT RE EMPLOVEE Wad BEEN
UNGen My surcavision

33

ie Tris WEOAT HAS NOT Wi

Bare

[oP FICiA Fitce OF UPERVIION

Finance Offic:

22 May 1963

SHO*N FO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

aaa 0 — a

‘COUNENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Concur in the evaluation.

T1¥FEO GH PRINTED NAME AND SIGUAG

|

[sf Dovgles S. Trabve
a



SECRET |

iisen Pe nt

FITNESS REPORT

GENERAL

ro) Tred Wate
WILCOTT, Jazes By 27 Sept

Worrician womtion TITLE

Fiscal acct Asst. “ref

:

Worriowenscr fee CURRENT STATION

EnECR IK) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT E Tie ewe cx iat tere OF REPORT.
[eaneen | [resenve |. vawooman 7

[eancencenoviviowss (See mummenona Sonn

AL fSrecityie

BPRcIAL (Spectre

Ta, REPORTING PERIOD (Frame to)

LApr.GL= $0 June 62

Wroare meron oun iwo.p.

SECTION B PERFORNANCE EVALUATION

3 from wholly inodesvcte to slightly leas then aetistactery. A tating: in tha &
The nature
ssignment of re seperation, Deseril

‘ection taken of proposed in Section C.

excellence
= Proficient | Performance 1s more then satisfactory. Desired rosults ar
$+ Strong ceptional proficiency,

boing produced in @ profi

others doing similer werd aa to warrant srecial recognition. %

x ory requires
the aetion could reage from counseling, to futher Waining, to piecing on

A+ Adeqvota Performance mects ll evauicecents. It is entitely sotisfoctory and ts cherocteriaad neither by deficiency noe

O- Qutstending Performance Is s0 exceptional in relatics to requirements of the work and in comparison t6 the performance of

SPECIFIC DUTIES

with supervisory responsitilitign MUST. be rated on thew cSulity 40.superviae (instcate number of amploreee eurvrvlend

atin performance of thet duty, All employees

TRERIFIE BUTT NOT
Station cashier responsible fer the day to dey receipt and dtsburseent
cf cash, i i:

specie DUTY nO. e
Consolidates all station cash trazsections to one voucher ard verifies

balance daily.

SPECIFIC DUTY NOE ie
Sumnarizes all station transections {zr eff-base housing and vehicle expendi-

tures into zonthly eccountings and neictains appropriste subsidiary records,

jsPeeiric Dury NO. ®

Polices individual housing and vehicle advance accounts and audits related
accountings,

jsreciric Outy NOs

Maintains statisticel records co sll priveto’rontals by individual house end
cost center.

specie Oury No. ®

Performs other ihe duties as assigned by the Finance Officar,

ESE" 45) cosovere emevious corrions,



(then bok

SECTION C

10 slgnificent strength:

jemonatrored in currant po
Peilormance, State’ 4un78 jor tinprovement of work
on foreign languas petence, required for eurent position, Ame
bosie for determining futwe personngl eciten. Monnet of p

pple,

Subject 49 econsclontious, industrious, aid willing to accept al) renponsidility
given hin, He hae performed capably in a funéticn for which bo had ro previous
éxporionce or treiiing, and hes shovn a markod interest in lnaraing oll freots 6f Ais
Job, He has hardied larg suns. of norey with fow errors, ead maintning the recessary

statisticel records in a cbzpetent mariner,

SECTIONS : ¢
i

TEERTIFY THAT
~—“Weronatune oF tuPvovee
James B. Wilcott /s/

oate

19 July 1962

z
WORTHS CUPTOVEE WAG BEI Tif THIS REPORT WAT NOT BEEN SHOM! mi ANAT
WORTRS EMPLOYEE Wag SEEN iF THIS REPORT WAS NOT GLEN SHOMN YO EMPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

_ 2F

oaTe OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

LT July 1962 } Finance Officer | EEEEEESEEESEEEEEEESEEEES |

BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL :

TWEED OF PRINTED Win AND SlgNAT URE

3.
fc GuMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVICWING OFFICIAL [7 YPEO OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

Finonce Officer j

SECRET.


a (tien Fitteg mp

"RO i FITNESS REPORT

o CAREER TAP

mor evrarace | [ween
coer BeeuneD

‘Pont ous iw

€
MUST be

[Eiieatrs

Seeeiic outy wo.) Staitlen
sible for the dry to day ‘receipt

Hsburcenent of cash, 4

jevate _:3- Aceeptable
ers
Nor

aeecirac BOTT NOS cory
‘Folices individual housing ard vehield **
advence accounts and audits related |
accou:tingas |
aPecirie uty Nod wayne forces
consolidates all station cash tren. " | Maintains statistical records on all
Riona to one voucher and verifies i private rentals by individual house
balance daily. 4 [and cost centers
sercirse Ourvno. 2 Suz-arizes all station |[A4zjojsreciric cory no. 8

ard

2

Crores
ne

te

crenes

elated dutics as
assignal by the Finance Officer,

“IN CURRENT POSITION

ian « pestormanee of saree
ponding to tre

s. = _
EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMAN

which influmeas his

int everything about the.emplor:
‘conduc!

farinal
No.

Porloremance in many imp: pee raqucerent an
Perlormonce meets moat requiremeats but is deficient In one or more important respects.

mance clearly

te spect 12 superion,
jeapect #8 surstansing,,

SECTION D. DESCRIPTION OF THE ENPILOVEE

In the rating boxes below, check (X!

Sr Outstanding degree
wating

Tet

at posaid

[eet Tongs OONe

RESOURCEFUL
ACCEPTS REsrowst
GAN PARE DECISIONS Ov 3 Gan WrEN NLT O
OOEs wis J08 WITHOUT SF ie

PACILITAES SuOOTM GMUMATION OF Hid OFFICE

res,

ses

WONG SUPPORT



WARRATIVE DUTCH TIO Oi watt POP IOI F

Hroted in eyrient géustion. IS heste wunea
Fapcrusrore, "us pateniert bic tevaingaeris mod tow 49
nim SECTIONS B, C, ond D to provita twa Lat bosistor de

4 dovno
tions lei'hie tearing, Geserib
Srones "Anchiy of explain, appropriate, +
Htere pervonnel actions.

Subject 19 conscientious, industrious, and villin
given hia, He bas perferucd cepably in a function for +
experienee or trainin dp rd hag chow & maree! interest dn leusnine
Jeb, Ho haa handled largo quas ‘ef moncy vith fow errors, ard nalitates
Jotatistical records in a.coupotent ranncrs aie ROOK

vengibility
lous

2 Sucets of bie
necousery

“Subject ahould strive to develop ore confidence in hinself and in hie ability
to perfora tho dutios arsigned Hit, His lnck of assurance era hts naivoté are
soautiiies disconcerting to those with whos cho deals,

“Fiis report has uven prepaed in accord:
ancé with FE Division standards which
fecognize the princisle of rating the wnasy-|
igual against the yroup. Thus an ‘averace’
fating reflects on entitely satisfactory

SECTION E CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
i" a _BY FMPLOYEF,
fy thar 1 hove

Gave Penne siowatune oF ChPLovee a
3 May 1961 Jones D. ilectt Poe

2 BY SUPERVISOR

wontis EapLover nas @kE nn TO EUPLOVER, Give EXPLANATION

iv Thi REPORT WAS NOT BEEN
UNGER Mr SUPERVISION :

$e . Suri PeEEEEEEEEEE

= WF REPORT 1S NOT BEING MADE AT This Time, GIVE HEASON,
vision Lest man 60 OA¥s Tee @mitmin CAS 60 DAYS

On PuINT#O HAVE AO SiGNATURE

PERF CRMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OF FICIAL

InTED wave ANO SONA TORE

‘Op riciay ViTLE OF REviE® Trvero ow

sey wo | [od

SECRET



SECRET

(den Fitted tn)

Wore /oiven GF AliaNwENT

Borat feinansr aos

OF aeeont

3Q tortd 1950.
SECTION 8
List wp to vin of tho m

hich empl ity. Co
MUST be cated on then

[mith wupereiaory teapensi

Vs Unsatisfactory [2 Barely odecote [3 - Acceptable.
fseecinic oury not Hesponsibie SOF Ms:e re] aarihe
ing, removing attachmnts, batching :

sei totaling contidentinl fuats postis
ars ‘to be _rrcesset byt aching amis Division
Peacinc oury nod Nespongdele Per Veriay=|mayne |areciric OuTy Nose
ing the daily expenditer: listing
tetals vith the expenied general
Aetcer accounts. &
Srecinic OUTY No.3 FesponsibLe Lor EAteh= |RATING
ing the attachvents to the vouchers :
‘lng when vouchers are returned
conis Division. &
EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT FOSTTIO!

his level of

marine]
Nor

1 Performance In mony important respects faite te meet roqu
2+ Perlormance mocta mast reauitemants but It deficient iene of more important conpacts,
Parlormanee clearly meets bane requitement
4+ Performonce clearly exceeds basi 104
3 = Pertormen ty impertont respec
formance in avery respect ia outstanding,

[B= Ovtstonding dearae
ner marina

: CHARACTERISTICS 3a. re
senveo!

NSIBILIT HS
FULT OECIEIONS OM WIS CAN BNEW NEED ARIES

POSES nis J9a wit HOUT STRONG SUPPORT

Sereecriveny,
Ye conscious
¥

Tian 0S ON PRU ERSE SINE

£5 ceso.ete encvious roriess. SECRET te



stenes
When bait

FECTION E

Subject has accepted a felt a sightent effective in Jung,”

The position’ to which subject hav bern essiened 42 very repetd tious
ani not at ali conducive to dinclosing-his Tull potential, lovever,

- by’ the in videh-he Adnpicit to Duty Noe 2, it is felt that he vill
de ablé to perfor: Enre responnible duties with a minizun of additional
trainings =

a
Hle has an extremely cool Attitute tovant his vork ‘end res:
suzérvisien, © . 2

ay “ This report h

ad to.refect
tri
his (ellow : aaa

struction No.7
realistie and are

SECTION F

pare Sia)

AO A
2.

Been if THis REPORT WAS NOT OF

MOnTns EMPLover
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

12 Months



FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

een Gaiety

Jones __ Be

Whee

Berry

aan L..CS2 5 _...

Orriciag Position TePLE

Fine Leave Pay Clerk

7 Beery 8 Or Manny

Finance Divisi

[eenome

fee

Re PORTING PERIOD

Thor 58 = 32 9

DATE REPORT OUE IN O.PL

parcciae (eect)

EVALUATION OF Pé REORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES _

‘during the rating
s his level of perlcemance.

ite, porticutar Hint
ating number ia the box.

1. Pectormance in mony important respects [oll to meat requirement
2+ Performance meels most tequitemes Ueficvent un one oF

Inportont respects,

ydegtee _[2- Limited door

3 Ovtatoniing &

CHARACTERISTICS

Gets THINGS DONE

marine

[213

RESOURCEFUL

aeeeeti neiboauenics

SEC!



leinomatruted in ewtrent

i sh qparape.

stows Indigate twine eiory mnae to employee lor uaproveme
ez hat potessval for de

Tapmeat ond for

work.” Give secommensonione tor hid training. 0
given in SECTIONS B, C, ord Dito oi

spoaisbilities. Analy of euph
lotere personnel ogtions,

goss not abus:
tons! Ms we:

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

SECTION F-

ity

SIGNATURE OF

BY SUPERVISOR

2 -
[iF Thid REPORT WAS NOY OEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

MONTHS CUPLOTEE mAs BEEN
UNDER we subemvision

AF REPORT 15 NOT BEING MALE AT THIS TIME, GIVE REASON.

Tigiitiial ACP OR MADE wi¥nin LAST 00 OAVS

iaiow Less tran 00 Gave

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TYPED Of PRINTED NAME ANO SIGNATURE

ar Se

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL,

[roouca wave oven Ynis EMPLOYEE AMOUT THE SAME F VALUATION.

OULD WAVE GIVEN

ANNOT JUDGE THES! aa

EX®LOVEE'S PERPORMAICES



Chen Felbed tat

FITNESS REPORT APart 1) PERFORMANCE

Fan TE UMINSTHAIVE OFFTCUN) Convul teu —
POR TIS SUPERVISOR: Thid renset “is dead os ant to trenenat
Tysticn to your surereinor end censor offecuala. Utgnnssation policy requares that you safore the eubards=
ais sath yous, Completion of the eeport can help you prenete for a discussion sith Kin of h
fo Ofganstation polacy inet you show Fart Tol this eenort to the caployee encent
aver conditions: Recuiation 20-39), Ut is recomended that you ‘trad the entire form uefore comrlet
sey queatvon. IC thit sacthe inetaal eevort on the eroloyee, st wurt be corsieted end forwarded te the Miiee of
Tetanarel ne é inet offer the late untested in item &, of Section “A” below,

Feayice otsvexetecs

2

T Oe Tera PONT |Oe TICE

Oate wieaat Out i oP

Dapactos 2

OF BtroeT

ceeatlet?
SEeTION CERTIFICATION
Te #oe ret eaten: tis M&PORT [—} WAS [—] WAS ROT GLE sn004 VF NOT SuOen, CRPUAIN
cerraaae

T Guten ¢¥) PPROOAIATE STATEMENTS

eo wave ouncusnce ite tere Garvavee men Btennetne

THis Sate . Weeis Ga Paiaieo waue aah aicatuar oe brewieaal
5 Dac. 1557
Fo Fse Toe weyieeine Bee Cy at) _AUESTD_ANY SUBSTANTIAL DIFFERENCE OF OPINION
FORGATISN, ewiGi DILL LEAD 19 A BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF THI REFORT. a

: : . BY DATE :
Posted Pos. Cox! c_ Up fs)
siowed by Fe WO iy (5
- am ee ae re

L eertily that any substenteal dufference of opinion with the supervisor 14 reflected in the ebove sect vone

as Tats OaTe B. twreD 98 3: fc. OFFieraL TITLES © oFFici aL
tec. 1957 [a pees ne
SECTION Ce ig FORMANCE EVALUATION

TURATING OW GENTAM PERFORMANCE oF CUTIES area

DIFFCTICNS: Consider GSLY tne productivity end effectiveness with which the sndividual being fated has peeformed
nis duties duriag the rating peesod, Cospare him CALY with othees doing tiriter sask at @ similar Level of respon
sibility. Factors other than productivity will ter in Section De

Hs Ors wor Praromy puTICS ADEQUATELY, ME 1S INcovPETENT.
BL BALELY ADEQUATE Iw PEAFOOWANCES ALTMOUGH ME HAS HAD SPECIFIC 5
4 CASKY OUT RESPENSIMILI THES.

DANCE OR TRAINING. RE OFTEN FALLS TS

2s Persons wast oF nis GUNES ACEEPTANLY, OCCASIONALLY REVEALS Sve AREA OF AEACUESE.
aea) 1: Peavanus coties wa a csurtteare Cevteni ve. sense,
TEPER 31 WEIIRCNESLGS, “chttces cod Sucrear ig Steeovsi entities caccerscuatey tts
BATINS OT pensonasimes ouviES to Suen oy OV /STANDIaG MEWWER THAT ne 1 CQUSLUED, BY FEE STWR PERSONS NOES TS
tat surenrison:
COE: oy ‘e
SE Ys (Part Up ont aev amiss, SECRET Perform: my

ARC OMSLET



of the mise on eo neorte dates Pr
fh pot anctule mings oe unecmortent dation:
b. Rete perfornance on each anecifac duty contiieting CALY elfectinenest em pertersance 2!
€: For sunerersors, ability to ecpcreise silt alvaye be pated ate specafac duty (43 258 pal
who turervese om a
in joe ‘roantble,
fevel of resnons
fe. Teo unduerduaty ith the
duties

t. Be apecitic. Peesptéy of the kind of duties that eight be'tated are: Ua,
was avp Uses Area nMset ence VU A concegrs INTEFANCATIONS,

yore durise this

ENR sod setoyrare the sace duty 0a

the andivedual being’ e01

ent duties: “HE 48, tate then on diifarens

yy be performing Galt

ona aatFeINe
GIvive Lecreses” DEVELOPS NFW-PROGENWS PREPARES SwvUEtES
é AMALYTES INDUSTRIAL REPORTS TRANSLATES chee

CONETING SEMINARS

HEITING TEONNICAL FEPORTS wavages PILES
GINACTING EVEEENAL LIATSON OPERATES RADIO : :
reise COORDINATES BIW. OTNER OFFICES «DRIVES PRUE
. TAKING BrcTavrON 7 BRITES-REGEAATIING DU MAINTAINS AIR CONCT TEN TYG,
STERVISING PREPARES. CORRESPOS DENCE EVALUATES SUGMIEICACE OF bare
ts For sone jobs. duties aay be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, @.g:, combined bey
and phone operation, in the case of a fadio operator.

7 RCONPETEAT Wwe PURFORGENCE OF THIS DUTY Gs Puavgevs TeiS DOTY iw by QUTSTANS NE waaTe

Be WERE ADEQUATE IN THE PERCOMWANCE OF THUS FOUND IN SERV Few INDIVIEEALS mOLEINS S181
Pescar rive Aaa s008,
Y a. mus Tuts OUTY ACCEPTABLY 7 ERCELE axvONe 1 KNOW Im THE PLAFORVANCE oF
nywece 4S weurcmus US CUTY IN A COMPETENT WANNER Tere uty” 4
BS PERERVE TELS OUTY Ue SUCK A FING UANNER

TeaT-nt 15 4 DISTINGT ASSET OM MIS 108
aaving]oreee

ear .
nuwotn

Sooke

runs of exrendity

4

SR_SF WANNER 9F 308 PERFORWANCE
DIRECTIONS: Stereos atrengtha and weoknesses, particularly those ehich effect developrent on present yo
jue. Utleots is very simious to prove bis eapubilities
assusce sddtttens? duties ee tune thoce assigned 4
his worl

Yreguizy,

oo bette
nrolirens in
nede crea

duties.
es hos beer
of pgrtentine

Accounts:

SECTION 0. ‘SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB In O8GANI ZATION

DIRECTIONS: Take into account here everything you knov sbout the individusl....producteesty, condest im the jod.
pertinent personal charactecsaticn ov habits, special defects or talents... nd hew he (its in wath your teas. Come
Pore him with others doing similar eork of about the snce Level. :

Bos CEFINDTELY URSLITASCE + ME SmOULD SE StramaTeD.
BS OF ESURTFUL SUITABILITY. MOULD KOT AVE ACCEPTED HIV UF 4 MAD QNDEN WAT 1 AQOW ADS
Ds A wasear ADCO TARE EVPLCYCE,. BELOW AVERAGE BUT M1TH NO ACANNESECS SUFFICIENTLY OUTST AND

M3 10 ones

he WANT RIS SEPARATION
4s OF THE Sa¥e SuUTABILETY AS MOST PEOPLE 1 eyow IN THE OUSNIZATION
GATING $+ RFINE EUPCOVEE «HAS GONE GUTSTANDING S°°ENGENS
Rowoce 6 AU ENCSUARLY STRONG PERSON Gn TONS OF 7-7 REQUIAEUENTS OF THE OVGANIZATION
SERCERLE NLP SUETABILETY O5 03KC ty THE CRGANITATION

im Sowa OTe
rer hte >:
sa

TS Tard Inatvieuay OeTTER
ERPUANE FoLUy



SECRET

Nort in o = i it ie
_ 19_April_1965

eSTABLrauee rom
i

WH

ie io NO,
jcturned

feMPuovee 40.

Block Recosds:

2, Temporarily for days, effective

b. Continuing, effective EOD

Submit Form|__|to change limitation category.

Ascortoin tho heing issued.

ltor any change affecting this cover,

tronsferring cover responsibility.



ou we
SECRET
NOTIFICATION OF ESTASLISHMENT fia :
bd 10 Septeaber 64

Tatancismeo Foe

py

OFF_FIN

jee

{ee aS |

{i cans nO, 7

8.Séptomber 64 Requesting cover :

[ewiovee x0,

[x] Block Records:

0. Temporarily for___days, effective

fective May 60 00

fe change limitation category,

b. Coatinuing,

[x] Submit Form _|for any change affecting this cover,

x | Sees for transferring cover responsibility.

C] Remarks:

[x ] commis Mar 57-May 60 Hdqs/overt



4 : a : ‘SECRET -
. (Weea Filed ta) :

Taint woud P way (lab Fes wIBBLTD

[25799 _Wi Coll vaKES @ VR

3. mATOHL oF PinsoRRtL ACTION

PRpni-y murs
TokatOn OF QUAY BtuttOn

DUP/WH/US FiELO
Wi/C SMAAVE
DEP CHIEF CF. STATICN FOR CPS SUPPORT
FINANCE BRANCR MW AVE.

Tr Peation Tate Ti sition wt

FLSCA. ACCT ASSL. 1363 ees ios

on Ws Curation SERIES Te Gaaee axe GF |W RAR O8 MATE

Laud

Tsien “aa ieiecate
Ot | cove
i

Toate wonton ae aero aac 8

af saeco 1, Te fae

aa 1BLKG. {_t an
| Sioa aan | attr arian | eu abnTe oT
fH fearceeceeci| oasectaraat| eneet ory

| vee
tesco i
waar a, Ta

SGuATOWE 68 OTR AVRIONTCA



‘SECRET
OWhen Bed BY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Tsien ean ant (USTED,

028733 | WILCOTT VANES 8-yR
aaa AA

a
EXCEPTED APPT*

[CAREER
| ’

ate

REGULAR

”

awe

6135 _11E4 0000)

© GEO otnta thea aatnRTT,

$0 USC: 403 Jv

‘F cucaa ATION OLseenAT IONS

OOPy {Mid ue

- FIELD

VE
OEP cule? CF STATION FOR OPS SUPPCR
FUNANCE ERANCH

ee

We Wecahibe oF evict STATION

Th Sets NE iT pose ee

FISCAL ACCT ASST

Ta SRE BtsieRaTIGS

sf

Ta CageRRTIOW SoOTONAT Tee UE we i ocuritionst Seuide | eRe a HOP

GS

01.03 O74

WF Sitaay OF eat

carn
* STAPF

EMPLOYEE : SPECIAL

6830

TRASH oom TAT coe Aran a tcHEE TI nan “Ho nae

[BW onte oF euape

EAC
to ae ow)” aoe ose
13 | 10 i 51 WH EEEEE) is | 27,31} 09 151 eal 3) 6
SI Sw MR ICRC ie ith
mee rarer me anes Gye | Et
| [emo ace | va

RACGP SCR ASC OT

i | | 06,2 5153 $3) HIS? owe nee(C Lit
Parris evden eee Feat a it Ta ate

pape

aaa ara
- r

fia ee

von

Use Previous
ne Ne ‘Eaton



SECRET

Ohana tat

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

a ae pow cae

RES!

TD MaTvEE OF Piao Aion

GNATION

. Tea YT a a nna
i ane KR pews [e1sd sicu i

9 organiationay Ot ycaTioes

ODP, Baa ae FIELO

wife

FINANCE SRANCH

CEP cuice OF STATION. FOR OPERATICUAL SUPPORT
SANCE SRANC SANE
WF Poiition Rawat [ ence FEUTION

FISCAL ACCT ASS

1 vocaniea oF omnia

orate ead BeNOR

oF

Ta GininicaTiON MeMTBUAE HS, WH, we)

GS.

1s octuraviows Seaity

A501 .03

6620

‘SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE Use OF THE OFFICE OF P a

“Te aanioe we tien TH mages
ca

Aiea taier
om | ote areata] | me
NS 10 i
Bae ing 7m wlan fie eetetwowT Oat, fa sioatAOW
en] Nt Pe tara cor
4 Bs heoon: i
(ECOL G

Sh_WET eatratwce | We Ski. Gar date [37 tone Coad Oate "Ma GateR catteonT

co a er rd Tainae [oritee
1 row ewe |
i Wav ata ‘weottat Tas wat
cee Tio teat

E

fone
fiery

130

Use Previous
Eainon

Vii wiany 68 BE



|. SPAY ADJUSTSERT IW ACCORMANCE WITH SALARY SCHENULES OF PL A9=304
. PURSUAAT TC avTNORITY Qf DCT 45 PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,
AS AMEADED, ANC APDOE POLICY DIRECTIVE OATED ® OCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE CATE OF Cav ADJUSTMENTE 10 OCTOBER 1965

ou! NeW
SERIAL O8GN, FUNDS GReSTEP SALARY SALARY

925798 51 559 CF GS 07 4 $ 626059 S$ 6.690



y f SECRET ©

(When Bed ty)

i. jngs $
i : [2 man DT eS filentl news B

| eaiomagacesnctncdetetnes :
| me ToT aT aT
i 05'| 31] 65. E
i TF CO CE ao ATR — TORT ONT ETT
1 (5235 1264 9000
} 0 TOA OF OC aR
i US FLO OD CH STA OP suP JMWAVE
i Z
: !
| ream 1 Raa TE TH RT RT
; [PIScaL accY assr 1369 sr ee

Te G0 Total io 3 ee) 15 CKCUPATIOMAL SERS TE CRADE aNd StU V7 Widtr OF BA ag

oS 0502.03 97 Hi
Bou
'
i
: .
i
: SIGNATURE O8 OTHER AUINENTICATION 7
i
j

pana Uae Preven SECRET a m

; te wie tas Editon ‘s =
paees amen Fed imp


- SECRET a :
(Whea Pulled ta) a

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Te at (aT vst ws,

_ Ee Kit, tt, Prmw b

V aataan oF Presoway Aiton (Le fenecin oate_) b CaTtccuy OF turiovmeNT
CAREER woke E

EXCEPTED APPT OY 1.25) 65 REGULAR

17 Gear Charen ee Owaaea CC 8 Giate UeeaL AT HORT

{ |
1X | awe 5135 1164 0000

Te Location OF OrtiCia SATION

30 USC 403 J

FIELO
FORWARD OPERATIONS STATION-UMWAVE
CEPUTY FOR SUPPORT

FINANCE BRANCH | SMWAVE
Tn He 1 a wT Tae RATION
FISCAL. ACCT ASST 1080 | SF
vem DOLE TS, UB, we 7 1 orCoramionat sears Te GHADE AnD STEP aay Ge RATE
os Fose1 03 loz 4

LACEMENT FOR EDNA C. JECENTHAL.

63) 13,64
+i Ganon ani

oo :
ey vittt a wana [ae a

es femme | |.
fee jeqoon |

Exe MeO
aceon

[a aan ain [i TE a Sa SECU
E Gen peor 8 centre ow eat ay
1 voy peu 1 1 I
ca no) i ain a ae
wa we Tara Tease peas TaTeTome] 4
| | fit
i i i

ie Wee faves SECRET [steer | :
IE iso ‘cation Te
ga EE] oat


NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Taare

Tina aban

025798 | WILCOTT JAMES 6 JR

errs

Tato oF Pian aoe

RESIGNATION : OH 2M, és]

TT titieoei

jet OF twrigvatat

REGULAR

a a NTE
‘ rowos > I

GE OF Otmte (UAL avTNORTE

277 0003 CAN
7 cacao Na Ta aed oF

i Siatiow
DOS/OFF ICE OF FINANCE
CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS OSVISION
COMPENSATION AND TAX ACCOUNTS BRANCH
CONTRACT AGENTS ACCOUNTS SECTION |WASH., D.C.

Ws. Petition tint (a Polio munITE

TH AviCE isToMATION

FINANCE ASSISTANT C470, SF
Te Casiicaion SOnTOaTE fas TH we) 5 occuraTioNaL Staits [16 GUIDE AnD SHEP
GS 0510.16 O74

race

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE O1

TW at wae

TF ATOR 3 taping | HOF COON fier BH wit |
cao | tte ee omnene | OME pCR

1G

He hays | Dail OF vinta]?
oe
ie 27,31

FTE ET pararr
Se tanto a, anne
HS hsoony: |

free those u

Daan wir
poe

i{zop pata |

| :

EXACACC ERO RCN SACRA aE

ae Ren eae

| | =
[a i stave TA ara Fon hie bate ae hate arate
potas t o Taw |
H fae | | |
be : i ee gers ad ieee
ATURE Of OTHER AUAIINTICATION: =>

POSTED

ges W296
_——

rome Use Prenious
tree 180 ‘Tainan

ra



: a “ SECRET
Ola: 9 OCT oy Schniehdreten
cer . “NOTIFICATION OF. PERSONNEL. ACTION

V sean woatee |? Reet (NT est wIDOLEY

025798 | wILCOTT JAMES JR

T aaivet OF Pitsonet aie

REASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER
D-FUNDS

AIC Ti Gitcany oF tarienaiat
10.) ri 6% REGULAR,

[vee

7 cos cintee wo. GREAT jo GE ok OTwLE LeeAL AUTHONTTT
5277 0003 en0d| 50° USC 4O3 U

[owe

ODS CFFICE OF FANANCE
CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS DIVISION
COMPENSATION & TAX ACCOUNTS BRANCH
CONTRACT AGENTS ACCOUNTS SECTION

Te. totation OF ov#iciat Station

WWASH., 0..C.

Ti. Ponca TE

FINANCE ASSISTANT

ie Poutioa noaste Ta savick BEaIeRATIOR

0470 SF

_ CTT TOUTE To) WE occupations Stntes

GS 0510.16

iu Ghabi ano ste? W taiaa o& Bate

cai

W Actien| Copy
cou [cae

7 oart OF

te sewnity pie ger

co

Wine Cour DATE [SL Cant aTEGORY |

Pacis 7 wea Tm intunAMce @ SGia SeCurTIT wD

= eae]

tee |

Te

Pacvices coveanwtaT SUAVICE Bata Wit at] a
ot te

Feoreat tax bate ‘Sait Tar Oat

ios taay 3 one oat
veo ta a ase i

TURE OR CHER AUTHENT'CATION

FE

oun
ne

POSTE
oon Va

we


“RATE IN

“ADJUSTMENT. OF |S:

ACCORDANCE WITH THE

SCHEDULES | OF THE GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES SALARY REFORM”

ACT OF 1964 PURSU.
OF CENTRAL INTE!
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 149.

NT TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR
ENCE AS PROVIDED IN THE CENTRAL

AS AMENDED, AND POLICY

DIRECTIVE“ISSUED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE DATED 8 OCTORER 1962.

SALARY CONVERTED TO-RATE SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL'S GRADE,

AND STEP AS INDICATED IN CHART

_ GENERAL SCHED!
Federal Employees Sal

BELOW.

ULE RATES

lary Act of 1964

Per Annum Rates

and Steps

2 | 3 ieee 2 5

$3,500, $3. 615 /$3,' 730 |$3,84

5 $939) 4,055) 4.
4,140 4,
4,630 _

18

545

030)
6650
6,245.
6,850,
7,510)

4/275! 4410
4,780) 4,930
5,330] 5,495,
51875] 6,060
6,450] 6,650
7,070) 7,290)
7,710 7,955] 8,200
8,440) 8,710 8,980)
9,240 91535] 9.83
10/960/11/315/11.679
13,755)

S

\20% 900!
23,695

ae

20,245,
22,945

19) ey

24,500!

7

a1 10
$4.190|$4,305)84,420
"555 4,805 ~
4380 4/980 5,220
5,230] 5,380| 5,530 5,830
5,825: 5,990} 6.155 6,485
87430] 6,615) 6,800 7170
7,050] 7,250] 7,450 71850
7:730| 7/950] 8.170 Big19
81445] 8690| 81935) 91180] 9.4:
9°290| 9'520| 9:190/10,060 10,330
10/125]10,420|10:715!11, 2910/1, 305
12,025] 12'380|12,735|13,090|13,245
14,175|14,595|15.015/15,435|15,855
16,620|17,110{17,600|18 0 sa
19/310] 19,880 20,450 |21,020)21,390
22/210]22,805 29,520)24,175] .

6 |
583. 880 $4,075 |

Fy 4,815



Iw ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVEStONS OF PUBL :
MEWORANDUN DATED ToaUGuey Fed) ie ,OF PUBLIC Law 870793 and OGt
CEES Tae eee by AUGUST 1956s SALARY 19 ADJUSTED AS FOLLaNS,

wane i SERIAL - @RGN FUNDS GResT satthy satan
WILCOTT yAaHES 9 UR 025798 49 380 CF G8 07 3 $ 50910 § Orsag -

icant is pees enemas einer tae
@ : 025798 | WILCOTT JAMES g UR | 45 380 CF
p Dip Satay ea : Taw aan matt 7a ae
Sau [sie] sewn [ew Ww] Gate [See] en | time oe eT
P56 | ba 50
|s essen 09/13/64

GS_n7 3 |S 6rte5-00/15/63 GS 07)

T Benssty ona

777 NO EXCESS LwOP Oe

7 ¢ Te PAY STATUS AT END. OF WAITING PERIOD Vf 2-
4 ¢@ LwOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD 1
CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY gd

° °

I CERTIFY TWAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE 1S
OF AN ACCEPTAALE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

BB $9 RKB om Le
SIGNATURE ELE BY Ghee un we LL: a
PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION om}

Tom core :
Sa 380 area “sm



OLS:

Titan vase

13 SEPT 63

"SECRET
‘Akben TWA tad

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TE want ast HAT TDA,

025798 | WILCOTT AMES B JR
¥ mate oF Pies TUNUCTIVE DATE | 5. CATEGORY OF CartovmtnT
PROMOTION 09 | 15) 63 REGULAR
ae vw | I ree F. OoaT UNTER WO, CHARGEABLE- [8 C5C CR OTHER LEGAL AUTNORITY,
rm
i wwe Ix [awe 4137 7351 tona| S50 usc_4¥n3 J

 oneumizaTioaan BEnGAATIORE

OOP/FE

FOREIGN F
Fe/|
a

Ta COCATION OF OFTICIAT SATION

Th ponticn PRE

FISCAL ACCT ASST

Paro REE ——$"

3167

i 1 een osmTOR

Ta Caibarcavion Genteaut Te, UH, ww

Te. occunaTigwat TEMES

ics}

EL OS0I O2es

Ta Guae aD THO

07 3

| Tau a nie

_5910

We Siatien Ha iteat
out | cost

37587)

{3__lo9 1 27,31

63) 09 1563

cc

[i ftitiwtni Baia

[RL WAaRATINN 32 CORETCTOH/GRCELLATION OATH

BeEERCE eae

tee

t 3 oti
rave ie ree eee [oe bara) (tate

i | : toi = | ce
‘ain Sa | atlne tigen [Tee NE HTT

an

aiecta ina e008 |

Sa fat outa

wwe are
| oe ly

SECRET put yo

Mn

.



PUBLIC Las 2737 AND
Tone Salas 4S aggUSTES A ETLLOWS,

H ices CLO. Sue = New
\ eee SER|AL CRGM  EUNDS GPLST SalakY  G5.ST Salary
: “WILCOTT JaveS & JR 325728 44265 CF a6 4 £5328 344 § 55u5

ARE:9 NOV 196f — - (When Filled ta)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

DEO PT

025798 WILCOTT JAMES B UR

F mavaRe OF PrasoMNEL RETO i 5. NGOnY OF turhoratet

PROMOTION 11y 12)61 REGULAR

| 7. GAN CENTER Wo, CRRGEANLE |B GC OR Clue tiem auTRORITY
“ rence |

| 2137 7351 100g 50 USC 403 ¥
7 ETT TTA

Te GwaTiGw OF OTFICAN STATION

ODP FE :
Fe, fat

SUPPORT STAFF

Ty, POTION TLE ai 17 Pasig wut vStevice sizreantion
FISCAL ACCT ASST 3167

Ta LaBiFCATIOw HaTOGTE (, WA, wc] 1s octarationa Stanes 14 Gone Fe STEP 7 aaa oF Te
Gs 0501.03 66 4 5325

Cec

~ SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE GF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
Baie OF tei

=e Fr EC Hated Tm wteale [oe nape [soe oan fw wn wR
2 10° | SB380 ) FE 137587 ae 69,27 pt Hi fe ef iM fe et

!

Waar pe FRR TTT AT “Haan Tae
aan eee LLL Cee MI GAs Pre ae ene [roo oats > a ae |
Co listers ae f |

WWE PaITeRTRE | THY Coa GATE | Waae Cour Baie [WC MT TERY GCDITACO | wh paca Won Tn [a wea secon we,

I
aiarear|e ‘fiatea Tor bate Watt toh wate
boa ia Tea

freenenecaren core

ae

"SIGNATURE OR OTUER AUTHENTICATION



a

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PSOVISTONS OF Pe Le 86-568 AND OC! MEMO DATED
1 AUGUST 19569 SALARY 1S ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 19600

SERIAL NEW SALARY

sp NAME ORGN GR=ST OLD SALARY

SF WILCOTT JAMES B JR 525798 51 71 GS-05 3 $ 49340 $ 49675

EMMETT De ECHOLS
DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

ast

ade
eed (WEEN PReD BD ad
TST NS tae Jansen onean arunes [.
28798 MILCOTT JAYES ROR opesre fit uv |

OLB SALARY RATE

NEW SALARY

RATE.

LAGT EFFECTIVE GATE

over usr arer

SALARY

errtctive Oare

$. 49675) 09

GS Of

6

$ 49840

20 | 59

| OFFI
peer

TO SE COMPLETED BY THI

fa ewec one - Plo sscaas ewes DD rrcess wor
jw excess uwor, cttex roLiow ine:

OF COMPTROLLER
7 nov EOP

Cy i avon otetvs ar ene oF

10, INITIALS OF CLEAR

[" novwea or |

YO BE COMPLETEO BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL,

fa. tree oF action is, mamas

Ore OD cee, 0 rev ansesreee

fie AutwewTicaTion

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

GRecLETE Patwious Foitiom

REPLACES Foam deoe ANS 340,

560 SECRET

OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLOER

ory


cs)" i 4860] COB
i

4
x
‘
: 7 NO EXCESS twap i
it 7 AN PAY STATUS AT, PND OF QWATTING’ PER TOO.
»

7 é 7 IN LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

aoe i : PAY CHANGE ‘NOTIFICATION |

ie seo OZ Be ‘SECRET ny =

~ SECRET
419)

NOTIFICATION. OF PERSONNEL ACTION

7

AES: 6 MAY.1960 z
1. Sericl No. 2. Name (Lost First-Middio)

WILCOTT JAMES 8 UR
ERE Ia TC Or Cia Vagal AOA,

ce eae
Nola al 50 USCA 403 4
PREVIOUS ASSI

We REGU

ins

74” Organizotuenal Dosignavars

DOS OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER
FINANCE DIV, ACCOUNTS BR
ACCOUNTING CONTROL SEC

ACCTS RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE UNIT
TY: Veriton Valo

Dest - 1 (Codel

isn <3 iF FISCAL ACCT CLK
21 Grade & Step | lary Ce Ente [23
053 5 43h0

ACIION

Dato __|89. Type OF
Da Vr

5 15 | 60 | REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
Code | 32. Locauon Of Oificrai Seaton

[87 Nature Of Action

REASSIGNMENT & TRAY
CONFIDENTIAL FUKD

34. Posiuce Tr
Dost Feld]
[ FISCAL ene

39. Selary Or far

Grade] «PSI Du
. | Mo.

5 agho



wen sTvnare ov acs eo. «ca

|. SECRET

| “Otthen Fulted fa) . ‘

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

AES: 2,0CT 1959
7. Sect Na 48. Nowe Cas-fint Middle) F. Date Cl Bich [4 Vet Wel, 5, Soe
+ Mo. | Bo. Sa Code
125798" WILCOTT JAMES B UR \ “ool a 3) nee Ti Mot
$0 8 CSC Rees]. CSC Or Onker Loge Rathi [10, Anse ao FU eC
Yes- 1 |Coda| Hee Ma] Da. | Ye. [vent Codey Mo. [ Da,
No=2 | 1 | §0 sca 403.4 2 ik

Ta, Organ ravonal Designahons
OOS OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER
FINANCE DIVISION

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
13, Location.Of Orfrenat Stovon

22 Sclary Or Rate | 23. SD
3 43%0. SF

(95 3

[03

‘Mo. Da. rt
2 157 | 09 | 20 1 59 19 6300 20 OO%

COMPENSATION AND TAX ACCTS BR , °
CONTRACT AGENTS ACCTS SECT. 3003 | WASH., D. Cs 79013,
old Ji7- Poation Tals TE. Vaainan Na ]19°Ser] 90. Occup. Sern ;
|
2_[| FINANCE ASST 0870 cs 0510.18
SU Grade 2 Stop DateCiGrade 155. PSI Due 188 Appropriation Number

ACTION

REASSIGAMENT

(31. Organizational Derignatons
DOS OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER
FINANCE DIV, ACCOUNTS BR
ACCOUNTING CONTROL SEC

Coda [¥8. EH, Date 29. Type Ol Employee
Mo, Oo. Yr.
56 10) 0% 59{ REGULAR

(Coda}

30, Separation Dats

oO

|

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
7 Code] 39. Location Of Orel Station

Srauon Code.

faa. Reesrls

aasy 1150

| ACTS RECEIVABLE ANO PAYABLE UNIT 3803 | WASH., D.C. 75013
“[34, Poniicn Tile” 5, Ponbsi Ns ]56, Serv 37. Occup. Seriet
ls FISCAL ACCT CLK 10506 al 0501.04
33. Grade & Stop /39 Solary Or Rate }40, SD [41. Dote Of Grade [ 42. PSI Due js a ‘Number
‘i Mo, Oe. Yr | Me. Da Yn
|e i aia ian Quasi tg 09 | 22157 03 1 15 1 66 | 0263, 1040



aLLCOTT var Sk

oe 3 }> 44340

COMPTROLLER,

+ cntce 0 yi weercen cee () tact 1 nemoEn oF nouns Awe
°

Wr excess 0901 roLLowine:

OLD SALARY RATE,

een

To amas eee [" ‘aubires oF

Yo BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

PAOIEGTED SALARY RATE ANO CATECTIVE DATE coarernrs

=a

Te. AUTRENTICATION

PERIODIC STEP INCREASE - AUTHENTICATION

aa feecee . SECRET. :
nes) ie (When Fillod In)
a NOTIFICATION OF INNEL ACTION
jaailes wales 01 |ON OF PERSONNEL ACTIO!
. | 1s Serial No. 2. Name (Lost-First-Middia) ed Tete CORR TG Vee, Doak a
hts. | Bo Ye Roo ood
WILCOTT JAMES B JR 09 | 27 | 31 sane That
Rent. [9, CSC Or Other Logal Authority
50 USCA 403 4
PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
14. Organizational Dezignati Code 15. Locatien Of Official Station ‘Station Code:
DOS OFFICE CF THE COMPTROLLER
FINANCE DIV

COMPENSATION & TAX ACCTS BR
STAFF EMPLOYEES ACCTS SECTION 3803 | WASH. 0. C. 75013
Feld Ti7. Bastion Te 3 Psnwen Nos

19. Serv 80, Occup Serer

= Code}
Fons [2 TIME LV PAY CLK. 0305.02 6s 0544.01
ie. Giada 8 Sas /22, Salary Or Rate | 93. SD (94, Date OfGrade|25. Psi Due___]96. Appropriction Number
‘Mo. - Da, Yr. Tig.
052 54190 ie [5 silo 8 6304 20
ACTION
27. Nature Of Action Code (22. EIf. Dota £9. Type OF Employes 30. Separation Data
‘Mo. Da. =|
REASSIGAMENT 156 | 03 | 25159} REGULAR [ot
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
(31. Crganizational Besignanons Code 132, Loceton OF Othcral Station ‘Staton Code:
DDS OFFICE OF THE CCMPTROLLER
FINANCE DIVISION
COMPENSATION AND TAX ACCTS BR :
CONTRACT AGENTS ACCTS SECT. 3803 | WASH. 0. Ce 75013
34. Panton Yale 5 Vostisa No. [8 Serv [37- Ozkan. Soriot
FINANCE ASST 0470 | | 9510.14
rop | 29. Sclary Or Rate | 40. SD Eeace ce___1 43. Appropnation Nuaber
Mo. Da. t. 2. Yr.
5 4190 SF 03 1 28.1 57 105 + 2819819 6300 20 008 Po



: : -05-
WILCOTT JAMES P SR 128798 G$-05-1

aed
sieee TN LIFU MF FORM 1159 THIS NOTIFICATION EFFECTS RESLOTTING RESULTING
; FROM R-20-250
tM
SFQ # NAME SD OLD SLOT NEW SLOT DATE

Vu

W «1 ?579R_ WILCOTT JAMES B JR SF 0305002 305 O1s12/59 ©

ww



[2 _sstones cuown

WILCOTT. JAMES B JR ©
OUD SALARY RATE

_ opsscompr /*
NEW SALARY

ee ee

cs 5| 2 Is 45190

CERTIFICATION

| CERTIFY THAT THE SERVICE AND CONDUCT OF THE ASOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE ARE SATISFACTORY.

cuaTune OF SURERTIION
eee



NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

MoMZe APRIL So.

ft Sefici No Te. None (Last Firt Middio)

em: kee! aoc

WILCOTT, JAMES B UR

FINANCE OLVi SHOR
ede AND TAX ACCTS BR
T pans ACCIS SECTION
= Bontion Tide

0510.14

31, Organizesonc! Cesignations

ODS OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER
FINANCE DIV

COMPENSATION % TAX ACCTS BR
STARE EMPLOYEES ACCTS SECTION

Dorec¥Grede 95. Psi Due
Ds. ¥

WASH.) D.C

A Apsrepeiution Number

8 6308 20

30. Separation Dawe

15013,

‘IT Postion Title

3
fan 2 rae TIMELY PAY CLK

0305.02 Gs

0544.08

[ Daaisoa NS 15S Son] I7. Oceas Sonnet

38. conteei ‘Salary Or Rate 40. 50

43. Appropriation Nunber



NOTIFICATION. OF PERSONNEL ACTON -~ epee
Ti Tats CORR Wa Bl JS See

ler lat fae tt Mt {oxo |37 z
1 Soe RY HOT PAB TED a Ete

aeabe reyes] 7 Yr: free

00S OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER
FISCAL DIVISION
ACCOUNTS BRANCH
ane i

30. Separation Date

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

[ae Leccton Of Oficial Staton ‘Station Code

31. Organizational Designations :
GOS OFFICE..OF. THE COMPTROLLER
FINANCE DIVISION

COMPENSATION AND TAX yas i
3803__| WASH, 0.
i arene 7 Sew. 137.

eee ENTE ACTS Se

a1 Baie Oi Grade 4? Fine | ae Appropeatica iL

Oo we

Taka ay 1150


SECRET

(shen Filled tn)

sraria:

10, Apat. Atfiday.

‘Ma. nal

75. Location OF Oillicial Station

WAS, OL tL

T7. Postion idk

cigeat acct fiw
182. Sclory Or Rate [23. $0

94, Date OF Grade [95

75. Vernon No.

"86. Appropnotion Nunbor

8 69 zn

97. Nowe Cf Raion

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

30. Separation Dawa

[31 Orgamantional Designations

ane F)

Ley re seepios

Code

[32 Locanon Gl Cilioal Station Graton Code

wae, 4

35. Penoa Ns. r TT Oxia Senet |

AS Head 6i

42 P51
Me.
!

‘43. Appropriation Nuaber

Sans? 1150

wo


* “CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

_ NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

WILOOT?, 2579
1he foliowing actlon effecting yous tm ployernt:

F.C. 9 Rov 56
O-5482 nly

‘erounon rina
9 paver semurs,
eae iALARY
16 oacanizarionat
Btsseaations

380273
th wLapauaniens

2

terasrwcxrat az Nuvo sere

1a. osiviow Ceassuricatiow ACTION
‘wee | vieg [a [aca]

Ty saver vo € 3.
RETIREMENT ACT

1 Lecal_BEsTOENCE
CQ cxaruco Cj raoven

sre

#
Hy! 50-33 Yon
=

coi 2

Subject to the extisfactory completion of a trial period of ons yoar,
Gubject to the sstisfactory completion of a medical examdization.
C-235,



SECRET
Lapen Felted top

FITNESS REPORT — ; 025798

EPONTING PERIOD (Prom to)

| 26 Apr 65 - 15 Apr 66

yonges bom wholly Inadequate to slightly le'ss than sot |. A rating In this category requites
el actor. The noture of the action could renge fram counseling, to fyethar training, #0 placing on
on taken or proposed in Section Ce

pounce rome
Drebarion, to recsesgemert oF fo seperation, Describe

Partorwonce muerte ctl convivenionts.
aneel
ee
Partemonce fe choverterited by exceptional proflelency.
Peckrmonee is 0 eccets-ono! In relation to requireme
ethers doing sisslor were 96 to warrant special recognition.
SPECIFIC DUTIES

up t0 ste af the sow imgorant syacific dutiee petforied during the cating oe
Consider ONLY

Sts, computes and verifies cover companies

commercial payrolls involving approximately persons. Prepare:
and verifies all salary checks, An accounting machine is used

af OF BaP TON ne es pay records, ERG
files, etc. for staff employees, staff agents, contract employees i

and agents. Maintains leave records for WAZ contract employees |
and_all staff_personnel]

rece ovr¥ so.) Responsible for timely payment of monthly tax dep.
and preparation of the quarterly Federal Withholding and Social

Security tax returns of the cover companies

Jnitiates dispatches ai iq
Field Stations on all satters pertaining to pay, leave and payroll
deductions of staff ezployces, staff agents and contract employees’

wating
jderree

Toke into account everyting show the explores which influences hi
Tormancs of specie aust, prodcevrever, conduct on Job, cooper
particular limitations of se'eath, Bosed on you knowledge, i emalore
bloce the totter inthe tong ban crrecsanaing othe salgnant which mast sccwaray reflects Art rate! ot partorsoncen

ann Ne ee N ious Boe rrDN. : SECRET


SECTION C : TARRATIVE COMMENTS

nilicant strengths or wealnesses demonstrated ia currant position heaping Rip tonpeatiee telenonsip to

overall performance, State suggestions mode for iimpran éaeri ong. Comient
on foresgn longuoge comperence, if ieauired For current 5: a8 pak * ores SSRSWNBLS IM Bhovide bese
Bonin for: deter

as in charge of the Payroli- Section -

sBinieR; not more
apparently was of the. opinion Rk being in

charge of." Sects! Relieved him-of the onerous tasks of filing
and other ated.duties of like nature. As far as meeting the
‘payroll deadlines Subject was’ proficient in this duty, but he

normally required considerable amount of overtime work to meet

these deadlinés, He had many ideas which he presented to Chief,
Finance Branch for betterment of the payrolling systen, but un=
fortunately after due consideration the majority of these ideas
were. found to be impractical and/or in violation of either good
accepted commercial practice or Agency regulations, Suggestions

made to him were outwardly. accepted but upon follow-up it was
determined that he -had failed to implement these suggestions.
Overall it is the rater’s opinion that the Subject was barely
adequate. in performing his assigned tasks.

SECTION D. : CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
8

{CTIONS A, 8, ANO C OF THIS REPORT
TSGNATORE OF EGPLOTEE ~

BY SUPERVISOR

“THIS WEPORT HAT NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

Soho EurCveE Ga BER

iriustorleedtubadelabiiseau ' Subject departed the Station without seeing

12-months___this Report. op a
| TEG Nawe AND SIGNATURE

TOFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR Weeo ow

/s/ ¥, Robert Graham

sare
17 Jun 1966 ' ;
BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL

EGiRGENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Subject resigned and departed the Station rather suddenly
and ‘before there was an opportunity to observe his performance.
The supervisor hac made a careful evaluation with which I concur.

aT TERRA WFCE BF BEVIEGING OFFICING TFVPED OW PRINTED WARE AWB EWA TURE

6 july 1966 Deputy Chief for Support} /s/ Willian A, Jewett
SECRET



SECRET

(then Pitted to)

Fi ITNESS REPORT

SECTION

ERAL

VY pewter

TERIAL NUMBER

025793.

java or wiatw [3 ben [oonaoe [eso

Finance Assistant

1 wae that r= “aavasiay =
WILCOMT, James By dre 27 sep 1921 | x ss7 |. s¥
STS FiGiaL Ronition THCE Worevoiv/an oF Aivianudwt fp CunwenT STATION
Washe, De Co

‘SB ewecn (a) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

KJeaneen | © [[rensonnev

Tieinectione * Section C)

fx fssrencsoiane

0 (Fra to)

Ll Oct. 1964 + 25 April

1965

Perlormonce rang6s from wholly inadequate to slightly less thon tory. A reting

Parformonce moots
gxcollenes

others doing similor work ox to worrant spec!

jons The nature of the! action eovld renge fram counseling, te lwther waining, 10 placing on
Describe ection token or propsted Im Section Ge a

Hiafectory ond is choractorized neither by deliclency nor

P+ Broficiént Performence ts more thon sotislectory. De'sired results ore boing produced la proficient manner,

$+ Swong Performance is charceterizad by exceptional proficiency.
0+ Qutaranding Performance In 10 exceptional In relation to requirement’ of the work and in compartson to the performance of

in this coregory requires

iad. Insert rating letter
8 In partormene

fe number of waploy.

with supervisory

which boat describes the
thot dvy, All employees,
a auperrieed),

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. ¥

Analysing Payroll Accounts

wating
Cerrar

Recenciling Tax and Retiresent Accounte

BPUEIFIE OOTY HOT

Computing Staff and Career Agents’ Pay and Allowances

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. ©

Conducting Liaison with cur Division regarding Payroll matters.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO

Preparing Correspondence

arr
cerveh

a

jaPecivie GuTY WO. ®

Maintaining Leave records and Agents’ Pay Files

terres

P

=

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Toke inte account everything cbovt the employee which influences his off
formance of specific dutles, productivity, condvel on 1
porvi: uler Vieniverie jalents. Based on your knowl

SECRET

Rate

P



SECRET

(hen Fitted Vad

SECTION C. : ~RARRATIVE COMMENTS

oof i posctiog thal
siren in RRL BR

evisory duties mst be described,

demonstrated in curieit position ke
node lor inproversont of work pee formonce
ated for current position Aa glily oF

wv

‘Sctron. ‘Mamet of parformonc:

AN Roo,

In.the six months that Mr. Wilcott was assigned to the Staff Agents
Acewants Sections he dexcnstrated-the ability to accept responsibilities
‘and responded well to all work assignments. Mr. Wilcott was a great:
help in reconciling and analysing Payroll, Tax, and Retirement accounts.
He worked well with his associates and had a good disposition.

Mr, Wileott is very cooperative and dependable.

‘Thie employee did not have any supervisory responsibilities
and, therefore, is not being rated on Cost Consciousness.

SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

in

T CERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEEW SECTIONS A, B, AND © OF THIS REPORT.

exe

30 April 1965

“Piondt vie op EwPcoven

2 BY

MONTHS CMPLOVER HAs BEEN EPGAT WAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLA

UNGER Mv SUPEAVIsION

‘FON

6 Exployee had departed for PCS prior to this date,
ware OFFICIAL TIPLE OF SuFERVzOR | #¥#ED
30 April 1965 chief, Staff Agents Acts. and.
ei lb ick

a a BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL.

SPFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OF

30 April 1965 [Chief, Conrensaticn and Tax
SECRET



FITNESS REPORT «~~ | o=s730

EMPLOVES SERIAL NUMDER

GENERAL

ie (iadioy [a ony
Wiléott, Janes Be’ Jr
“8. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE 7

Piséal acct Asst

3. Checn (x) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

10 (From= tom)

1 July 1963 ~ 30 June 1964
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

ly tnode
‘ection. The nature of

Performance ta moe thsa setiafoctory. Desired results are being produced In a proficient monet.

S; Strong ——_ Performance 1s charecterized by exceptions! proflelency.
20 oxceptionel In relation to

0 Qunedding Performane
: others doing similar work ae to warrant special

1x of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. insert
Jmanner in which employee performs EACH apecitic duty. Consider ONLY. of ‘
with supervisory cosponsibilities MUST be roted on thelr ability

of employess aupervieedh

formance of that duty. All employees

wars

seeCIRIC BUTT WO. t

As S er, responsible for the daily receipt and disbursement of
cash U.S, dollers, HPC).

terres

a

wating

sPeCive BUT WO.
Gonsolidetes ell Statien cash transactions to ono voucher and verifies

balance daily,

TwaTone

Ceres

aPaCIFIC DUTY WOrs
Sunuarizes all Station transactions for off-base housing and vehicle oxpendi-

tures into monthly accountings and meintaina appropriate subsidiary records,

i etree

~

[SPECIFIC OUTY WO. 4
Policos individual housing and veliicle advance accounts and audits related

accountings,

ie Bare NOS
Nalntains statistical reserds or private rentals by individusl house and

cost center. .

i

Corres

P

SECC BUT NOLS

Advices TDY travelers of their entitlements, audits the travel vouchers, and
perforas other related duties as assigned by the Finance Officer.

aa
te

a

RAUL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

about the employes which

porticoier Hm
place the leet

15 JUL 1964

£89" 45 oovocere onerous eomrane



SECTION

Subject has performed his duties {na competont siannor. Usesiy
of money vith few errors, and maliitains the,necessary otatistical records,

Cost corisciousness arid management of organization agsots doos not apply to
this position, fF

SECTION D

Tit PHI REPORT WAT NOT BEAN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

WON THE EMPLOVEE WAS aE EW
UNGER MY SUPER YISION.

2 |
3 mee §
pave c

| Finance Officer [s/ Fronk Welle
BY REVIEWING OFFI

FWPEO Ga PRINTED WAE AND SiONATURE

FFiGIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Feommtuta OF WeviewiNe OFFICIAL
Subject ss helé the position of Finance Disbursing Officer since his arrival at
fay 1960, He has performed well in a function for which’ he had no
neo er training, With a realignment of the office workload in
Deceaber He was given the additional responsibility of processing TDY travol.
to his specialised werk, he has not had the opportunity to he trained in other
facets of finence work, He has deen scheduled for Financo training upon his

return to Headquarters in July 1964,

Due

Bare TOFF.CIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL TT VPED O@ PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

| _ptnance onrtcer |__|



CAUERTIAL a

(ssn Fallot tn)

FIT 10,374, 31 day 69
FITNESS REPORT

GENERAL

Torrone MeN [O

“pe;

[aestironmentaure
Sa

sONTING PERIOD (Frage to)

1 Jul 62 - 30 Jun 63

‘A rating In this category requires

_ poultive te 10 lurthar trainin to placing om
probotlon, to 4 in Section Gs

4 nolther by deficloney nor

excellons

choractetlied by ox:

18 10 exceptionet in
doing slmiter week on to

period, near cating latter which bess describes the
formance of thot duty. All employees

tay up to six of the.
Jmannet in which emple specit Ce
inith supersivory responsibilities MUST be rated on thelr ability to super

Cerrer

SPECIE DUTY NO: F | waving

As Station Cashier, responsible for the dally receipt and disbursement of |
cash(——-*4(U. 8. dollars, MPC). | 2
recive BUTT AOE i
Consolidates all Station cash transactions to one voucher and verifies balance
daily.

WeECPIC OUTT NGF

Suntmarizes all Station transactions for off-base housing and vehicle expendi-
tures into monthly accountings and. maintains appropriate subsidiary records,
PRCT OUFT HO. ® :

Polices individual housing and vehicle advance accounts and audits related
accountings,

aPEciPie DUTY NOE

Maintains statistical records on all private rentals by individual house and
cost center,

jsrecivie BUTT nO. ©

nunter af bmployeos meperionch

Performs other related duties as assigned by the Finance Officer.
OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

tiece the Teter inthe totng bes cerrennanding tothe vetomans which moet ceutevlyeoflects Ms w iavel of perlorwancer |

20 yun 62
ISI" 45 cosodere pnevrovs eovreonn “SEERET_-



SECTIONS

|. 777 Subject is conactentious, industrious, and willing to accept all
responsibility-assignéd him,- He-has performed his duties in a competent.
aanner and-has shown a miaxt ed interest in learning all facets of his job.”
Subject-at times gives the impression (whether warranted or not) of being
uncertain in his thinking, and he does not always seem to exercise his

~ best judgment -in reaching decisions, but he Is striving to eradicate this
impression,

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

CERTIFY THAT
[peers
| /s/ James B. Wilcott.
BY SUPERVEOR faaenats
iF THiS REPORT WAS HOT DEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVER, JIVE EXPLANATION

“Jor riciac TiTL® OF SUPERVIEOR

21 May 1963 Finance Officer
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

AND Bio wA FORE

[COMMENTS OF WEVIEWING GPFICIAL

Concur in the evaluation,

TORPICIAL THLE OF WEVIEWING OFFICIAL |TVAED OW PRINTED NAME AND SiONATURE

Adm Officer /3/ Douglas S. Trabue
SECRET
CONFIDENT)



SECRET

tenen Fitted ind

FITNESS REPORT

tory. A roping 19 this category requires

nge ino, 10 further training, #2 placing on
ibe acilon takan or proposed Im Section Ce i

+= Qutstanding “Performance bs s0 éxceptional in relation to requirements of the work and In cemportaon te the performance of
ethers doing similar work as te warrent special recognition,

h best deseribowthe
All employees

Station cashier responsible for the day to day receipt and disbursement
of cash,

Consolidates all otation cash transactions to one voucher and verifies
balance dally.

Gumarisoa all otation transactions fer off-base housing and vehicle expendi-
tures into monthly aécountings and maintains appropriate subsidiary records,

aPecivie DUTY noe
Polices individual housing and vebicle advance accounts and audits related
accountings.

SPECIFIC DUTY NOS

Maintains statistical records’ on all privete rentals by individual house and
coat center,

sPeciic BuTY NO. ®

Performs other related duties as car nten by the Finance Officer,

during the ro!
his level of perlormonces

SECRET



SECRET

(ehin Felted 18)

NARRATIVE COMMENTS.

osm meme
0 language competan 1S Siction 8 te-provide best

rd Ves
Nermining Future per sonnel . ? ied yt Pays described,

Subject is conscientious, industrious, and willing to sofort gt sidiak Arete
given hin, He hae porformed capably ip'a. function for vhich he had to, previous
experionce or tieining, and had shovn-a marked interest in learning peta facets of his
job, He ban handled large’auns of money with few errors, and mainteins the necessary
statistical Pesords ine competent manners

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:

BY EMPLOYEE

T CERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF THIS REPORT

[SiNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

James B. Wilcott /c/

BY SUPERVISOR

MONT MRTOTES if THis WEBONT WAS NOY GEEW sHOUN TO EMPLOYER, GIVE EXPLANATION

Ere

OFFICIAL, TIT CE OF SUPERVISOR

17 July 1962 Finance Officer
3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
‘COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL ee

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Finance Officer

a z SECRET Zz



SECRET

rar ae tuvpoiew ed mrac nuNDEe
: DS : oe L £2 579%
SECTION A GENERAL
pero ory Trieay asia) 2 oate oF bate Bream oc
KILCOTT, James B 27 Sept 1932 M T GS-0:
i Beavice GRSISNaTION| 8 OFFICIAL PORTION FTLE 7 GFP /OW/ON OF ABSIONMENT

SF Fiscal Acct. Asst.

apr status

SEs Re cWiawudnTENPLOVRe

ers if
Ty Lerecine meetin

Teme PORTING

Vmparant specific 4 nee re
ferlorm EACH spec jor ONLY olfuctiveneas im performance of thet duty. All empl
ee

To Accgpitis [as Codpaionl IB ~ Evcellgns [o- Separtor [0 7 Orstonding

Polices individual housing and vehicl.
advance accounts and audits related
| accountings.

PRATING [SPECIFIC OUTY NO. 8

‘| Maintains statistical records cn all
private rentals by individual house
and cost centers
Wayine faPecivie DUTT woe
Performs other related duties as
asaigned by the Finance Officer,

1. Uasatialoctory Fe Barely edvqvore
seccimic curv not Station cashier respai-|®atss
jsible for the day to day receipt ang | xo

,Bisdursenent of cash.

[saciric DUTY NOE
onsolidates all station cash transac-
ions te one voucher and verifi

ransactiors for off-baso hotising. and
SUELS PERU AUN ESIAS SpeeO ee Se
heiGisry records,

SECTION C =

rormance deing the
‘si Tevel of perbormane

mazind

4

Yo the employes
‘5 = Outstanding dagree
RATING

aya

Ea
a are
ya

ETS Twins GONE
RESOURCE PUL

ACCEPTS REsPonsiOiLITICS 7
GAN HARE DECISIONS On MIS ON WHEN HEED ARISES,

DOES nis 08 WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT

PACILITATES SHOOTM OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE

SAiTes erpectivecY . . A

SECURIT conscious
Thinks CLEASLY =

DISSIPGNE vy ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AND OSPGSING OF MECORDS
OTHER resins

‘SEE SECTION “E* OW REVERSE SDD:

S50" 45 onsovere peevious eorrrons, SECRET “


a SECRET |

en Fs

~Subsect is conselentious; industrious, and willing to cert Shears
given hin, bas perforued capably in =» function for a

Jexperiance :of training, and has shown a marked interest in feces ali facets of his
Job, He bas handled large sums cf monoy vith few errors, and maintains the necessery
btatiatical records in\a competent manner, MAIL ROOM

Subject shold strive to develop more confidenée in himself and in his ability
to perform the dutios assigned him. Hie lack of assurance and his naiveté are
sonetizes disconcerting to those vith'vhon he deals.

Tine feport has been prepared in accord
ance with F E Division standards which,
recognize the principle of rating the indiv.
idual against the group. Thus an ‘average’
rating reflects an entirely satisfactory

}

perormance,

~_ CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE

Teertify that 1 have seen Sections A, B,C, D and E of ‘his Report.

HOWATURE OF ENPLOVES

James B. Wilcott (osignea)

BY SUPERVISOR

MONTH EMPLOYEE Has BEEN [iF THIS PEPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNSER MY'sube vision

8

1 REPORT 139 NOT FING MAGE AT THIS Time, OIVE REASON:

[caravan nota wy sobenvision ceva Tean so bare laaPonT Habe Bivniw LAUT DATS

jotnen (Specitvi:

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR T¥PEO OR PRINTED WANE AND SIGNATURE

3. ay 1961 eee : i eee

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TWOULO HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION,

TOULD WAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A HIGHER EVALUATION,

TWOULO WAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE & LOWER EVALUATIONS

TEANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS, 1 AN NOT SUPFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCES

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL [TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIONATURE

= SECRET



ing number which boat describes the

perlorms EACH specific inca of thot duty. All-omployees

with supervisory fesponsibilitioe MUST be rated on thele cbility.te sepervise (indirate mmber of employees superrlsed),

1 Unsatialoctory __[ 2; Berely edequate [3 - Accapiotle Ta Gonpetent [3 Excellent |S fopetee _ [77 Oviatonding
sreciric oury no. Responsible for number-[eanse)seéciric curva Ho. 1 ‘continued ) Imagawa

ing, renoving attachments, batching
ani totaling centilential fumta postifs u
vouchers to be vrocessed_by Machine Reconts Division
seecinic ourvno.2 Responsible tor verity-[eayns jsreciric oury no. ®
ing the daily expenditure Listing
totals with the expenled general |

edger accounts. rN

seecinc ouryno.9 Responsible for mitch- cure nae Ragine
ing the attachments to the vouchers
and filins.vhen vouchers are returned)
from Machine Recoric Divisian. u

SECTION'C EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Tote Into occeunt everything about the emplo; in hia currant position « performans
partleviar limitetions or tolents, Based on

= conducl on fab. cooperat
i, place the rating number in the bex corresponding to the

Ratna
Non

10 which influences his olfa

formance In many Important coapects fails te mee! soquirements,
formar 1a most requirements but Ia deFiel fone oF mtore impontont respecte,

3. Performances clearly meets Basle requirement.
4+ Perlormonce clearly excaeds liosic requirements,
3 Pertormance in every Impartant respect Ie superior,
4 Performance in every respect is outstanding,

SECTION D. Be DESCRIPTION OF THE E
Th the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which each choracterletic applies to the employe
Ts Least possible degree [2+ Limited depres _|3- Normal degree ]4- Above degree _[5- Ou

CHARACTERISTICS

GETS Trina’ OONE
mesouRcerut
Accents meswowsoniries
CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIB OWN WHEN NEEO ARIES
‘DOES wid 308 witroUY STRONG SUPPORT

(FATES SwOOTM OPERATION OF HIV OF FICE,

wastes Eprectivery
Sucunity conscious

THINKS CLEARLY ©
DISCIPLINE fy ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AMO OLSPOUING OF RECORDS

DT NER (ipeeityis

‘SEE SECTION *E* ON REVERSE SDE.

SECRET f w

vow
tan” 45 corovere eacyrous sor



SECRET

(hen Fanti! ta)

RARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

SECTION E

(tare persgenal actions.

Subject hac accepted a fieli assignment effective in June.

‘The position to which subject has been assigned is very repetitious
and not at all conducive to disclosing hio full potential. Hovever,
by the vay in vhich he adapted to Duty No. 2, it is felt that. he will
be able to perform'more responsible dutiés with a minimm of additional

training.

Se
He 188 an extremely good attitule tovard his work and responds vell to
supgFrision. :

This report his
with the critesi
struction No, 7

6, E of thi

Ae he

ened BE SUEERVEORIE: —_—
We Tris REPOnT WAG NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EM Give EXPLANATION

12 Months

[REPORT MADE wiTHIN LAST 09 CAVE

[eupLovee uNoEm wy suPERN

‘Jornen (Spectine :
: forriciat ¥i7Ue Gr BuRERVIROR 0 Om PAINTED paul ANd SHONATU
ff
Civoucher Review Untt

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
jOuT THE SAME EVALUATION,

OULO HAVE GIVEN Twid ENPLOVEE
MOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOTEE A NiGHER EVALUATION.

TMOULO HAVE GIVEN Tri EMPLOYEE A LOWEN EVALUATION.

TEANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS, 1AM MOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOTFE

"COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

SECRET : :

rrerg Ye OPFIEIAL TiFLa GP BEviBSING OFFIEIAT
az/Accounts Rranch



FITNESS REPORT

pwhen Filled’ In

SECTION A

GENERAL

Thane ‘eae

Wire

Wileott, Ur. James

~“asiaatay

avn

3. 21 Sept. 193)

Toma

[eexoime

Corrinne be

Te. DATE REPORT Ouk iW O.P.

30 April 1959

L_Apr_ 58

Th REPORTING PERIOD ‘iPecian (Spectty)

31 Mar $9

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

SECTION 5

In which.

in of the most important specific dut

Supervisory-rasponsibilitios MUST be

T= Unsetistortery 2: Barely adequate

specirie ouTY NOt

spacipic Bury Nord
applicstio: @

Agno [Srecteic OUTY WO. @

Process:

conduct on job, cooperat
rest perlamance ring she rating gered, place th

‘accurately reflects his tevel of

28, pertinent personal

jequiremeats,

“gear

lod. lasart roting number which boat describes the

in performance of that duty, All employees

[i= Ovistonding

1m = pertormance of specifi
Vimirariant oe talents,
ing number ia the box corresponding

's delieient in one or more iimportont reapect

REsouRcerUL

ACCEPTS AUSPONSIOILITIOS

(GAM MARE DECISIONS ON WIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES

(DOES Hid JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT

FACILITATES swOOTH OPE

WaITES CFPeCTIVERY
“SECUMITY CONSEIOUS,

THINKS ELE

‘OPMER (Seectte

tan” 4S cosocere eaevrous corrions.

(SEE SECTION *B* ON REVERSE SIDE

* SECRET

iat verege degree [5- Outstanding degre



SECRET
tivhen Poked tay
_[SECTIONE NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

sponsibit é
(Gnere portonnal oct 2 :

SECTION F z CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:
L "BY EMPLOYEE

Dond E
cagrritn fa”

Bitte Leertify that | have 5
SiGhATUME OF

are

ay SUPERVISOR
iF REPORT WAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYER, GIVE EXPLANATION.

monTHs ENPLOV EE “AS BEEN
UNGER Mr SUPERVISION

ewecey iaiow Leds Than 60 OAYa [aupont WADE witwis wast bo DAVE,
lornen Capeeitye:
pate OFPICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

= Ga PRINTED Kiwd ANO SIGNATURE

Tans iC, lese » Ieave, Pay Sp
i: Fi BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
2 Tresuc WEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE Same EVALUATION:
: TROULD RAVE GIVEW THIS EMPLOYEE A HONEA EVALUATION.
Teouce wave GIVEN THid EMPLOYEE 4 LOuER EVILUATION.
TGENTLY FAWILIAR WIT THE EUPLOVEITY DENFORMANCE’

i TEARWOT 008
‘Coumants OF Ravi

~ “- OPFiGtAL THLE OF REViOwING OFFICIANT vers TURE

oate

i SEO i A/C, Staff Eaployees Accts. Se
. : # - SECRET ~ 7 ict 7



SECRET

am) (hem Fetded Tad

FITNESS REPORT (Part Ik PERFORMANCE

tastRUCTIONS.

Toapleting thie report.
FOR Doe AUTRE. Tie reper 2 your evaluation of your subordinate and to tensa!
thie evaluet Lon" te. our supe tv ie tion policy requires thet you inform the gubordl-

2 Giscussion with him of hie|
It be btae,ofgantsation poticy thet you show Part Lol thie repo:

It ie Fecomeanded thet you teed the entire fore
fon the employer, I sust be couplejed end forwarded to the Office

ifgm A of Section “A” bel

=

pte 203) yw
Tow Fie

Eire feck, Clock

Sr PERIOD COVEREO BY TWIB REPORT (Inclusive datee)

‘SECTION : GEATIFICATION

Vestom Tee ATED) Tere BaP ORT Le] Wad Ce) WA NOT Ot duowy TO THe THDIVIDOAL PAVED”

Ty WO? woew, ERPLAIW BY

Tswace (4) APenaPAcaTC ATATEMNTON

Je wave vecvenan vita tre tusvover wie avatmetne

ars wae te 3. SoreAviBON'S OFFI TNE
5 Dee. 1957 Deputy Chier, Accounting Bry
Tonto Aiwa Coin OPTI BIT Tw GUPERVN TOR, OF a OTHER Te

FOMUATIOW, BHTCH BIL LEAD TO A BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF Tels REPORT.

By

Posted Pos. Cevi

Roviewed by Fu. LM) tli

is reflected in the above section,
T OFFIEIAL YITUE OF AWit@ING OFFIEIAL

Chtel, wecounting Branch

‘SteTiON Cc.
eG ON clyewal PearoRWANCE OF DUTIES
DERBETIONS: Consider ONLY the productivity end elfectiven
nis duties during the rating period. Compare his CALY with o
sability: Factors other than productavity will be taken inte account

sor penrone our
EOUATE 1m PERFORUANCE: ALTHOUGH WE WAS HAD SPECIFIC GJIOANCE OR TRAINING. WE OFTEN FAILS 10

s AocouaTenys mE 1s rycowrer

4s 098

rrr
aating
mowece

Fyne so
erarts

W5 (Part 1) one

2s oueny
& caRay Out AESPonsOnLITIES.
Pearones UOST OF HIS QUTIFS ACCEFTABLY. OCCASIONALLY REVEALS SOME AREA OF FEAKNESS.

PEArORUS OUTIES IN A COMPETENT,

CHFCe rive WANNER.

A rige PeRPoRWANCes Cal

Pearonus wis OUTIES tm SUCH AN OUTSTANDING MANNER THAT METS COUALLE. OY FEN OTHER PERSONS anowN TO

Tee SuPcAvisoR.

ere

are oesoueTe

ES OU" wany OF a8 MESPON;

Mr, Kileott: le very industrious and uces|

asaya ass mics) SECRET.

BILUTIES CHCEPTIONALLY HELL.

vents without hesitat!s:

sste

Performance aw



feeoeits SECRET

stimas os Pearoawaet Gr SRCHIE tts ~

ire,
note ingore tant SIFCIFIC dul fF @ pug fursne this rating

ig taetbcTohe shee etter tne atone SME INS
uty considering UMLY el fectivencer in perforaance of MABispeci fie duty.
It ateays be cated ae a apecptic duty (de set rate ae nepersieere these

rated BinGtinnge geeigrwisa the sone duty ats
a1. ne

DEWFCTIONS

ability to supe
48 seceetery only).
in your aind. hen possible, the

level of responsability.
jens Job title may be perforsing different dutie

of the Kind! of dutle
ee * and avoleses ands vost eocs "All Rogyyicers teresmooarians

DEVELOPS XEN PROGRAWS “ARES SM ARIES

sine

fe, Teo Individuals

v duties”

H.Be specific.  Fxexpt
Ona: aaitstxg

civive LectvRss
CONNECTING SavINARS AVALYIES INDUSTRIAL REPORTS TRAVSLATES. cBEWaN ‘
ERITING TECHNICAL REPORTS WAVAGES FILES DEBRIEFINS SOURCES

KEEPS BYES,

CONDUCTING BETERNAL LIAI3ON —OPRRATES RADIO
“COORDINATES LTH OTWER OFFICES —DRLVES THUCE

TrING
TAKING DICTATION UNITES eecceArions MAINTAINS 418 CO¥DITIONENG
SUPERVISING “ABP ARES CORRESPONDENCE EVALUATES SLONIPICANCE OF DATA)

f consideze Lt advisable, e.g., combined key

sy be ‘broken down even further if super:
of » cadle operater,

For some johs, dutii
end phone operetion, in the cs

> PERFOMUS TolS DUTY IW te OUTSTANDING waRNEe

Y= encour Tent tm THe PEATORUANCE OF THiS OUTY
Ne Stet

BF DAACKY ADEGUATE IM THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS FOUND IN VARY FLu tMoeNeTuALS MOL!

Ty kan gous
2 Pearcaus mrs gute acceeraDiy 2+ ERCELS ANYONE 1 KNOW IN THE PERFORMANCE OF

Stu hal OUTV tw k COMPETENT MANNER tars gure
BD peargnes Rd UTE IN SUCH AF INE-WANNER

Tat me tS & DISTINCY ASSET OM MES JO

: Trt aT ae wots ae tao te Tp

F und yeopening of the allct:
pigcounts at elose of eveh

Shere

nent Le
ieted obit

+ ledger scceuntion records. | &
‘F. WARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MAWNER OF 308 PLRFORWANCE to the
[oIPECTIONS: Strees strengths ond weoknesces, particularly those which effect developrent on present jobs

he, Wilects lous tu prove bis eoauilittes. sceordingly, ke trequently
dus he is very aches

J?
va Ulet he indals,
Lter age
eolleent v9 an ate)
wede great >

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IN ORGANIZATION

fp everything you know about the individual....preductivsty. condvet in the sed.
sesond how he Fite in with your team, Com

‘SECTION D.

DIRECTIONS: Take into secount hi
pertinent personal charactersetsce or hablé, special defects or tall
Dere him with others doing wisilar work of about the sare level.
toe OEFImNTELY UNSTABLE = HE SHOULD BE SEPARATED
205 OF OOUETFUL SUITABILITY. ..s0ULD NOT WAVE ACCEPTEO MIM IF 1 MAD cnoeH
Ds A PARELy ACCEPTANCE EMPLOYEE...-MELOe AVERAGE OUT ITH RO HEARNESSES SUTFICHENTIY
BAT Wis sup aRat
4s oF THE Sent ITY AS OST PEOPLE | ance IN THE ORGANIZATION
3+ A Fine Cercey a3 SWE OUTSTANDING STRENGINS.
‘
7

meat tance soe
SeTSTANOING TO ame

Tay UusuaLLe $fa0ne PURSON tm TORUS OF THE MCQUIMEWENTS OF TE ORGANZA!
+ ERCELLED by, OLY A FEW Im SUCTARILITY FOR #98 Im THE ORGANIZATION

iE OTHER POSITION IN THE ORGANITATION? CJ

nuwore

reat a RT

T3_Tald iwoavibea BETTE BOTED FOR BORE Te
ircaim rota pereenr
: ted for BL pr

i

sent yesition, &
went, as
It ts beiieved



UIDteAL tuniantEs etait ATntnTS proces

NOTICE OF CHANGE IN HEALTH BENEFITS ENROLLMENT

ee Por! A—IDENTIFYING DATA

Jey 2/2

ire ope FF ea Ie 2

23 | apd 1566

S$ YOUR INEOLLMINT. RLAD THAT TEM.CAELSULLY AND FOLLOW ANT PIRTINNT
NROLMINT 1S TERMINATED AND YOU APPLY FOR CONVIRSION.

z; ft ee Port 8.—TERMINATION

YOUR ENROUMINT TEEMIHIAILS OF IML DATE 111 PAET A, LIL 2, ABOVE

“Pant ‘ CHANGE IN PLAN

a To Aberin al ono ena dE wt aaa ssa reuRe orto: Cola RT AnOTE
me

Part O.—TRANSFER OUT Port E.—TRANSFER IN

YOUR EredMINT CONtROES BU IS TRANSITPRO tO :
YOUR rid PATHOL ON ICL {OH RETF AALMT SHSIEi

o verb new nro snc som mss sett ten
ate btteue wat acciott teananit Or von
oon anon Contos

Port F.—SUSPENSION Pont G.—REINSTATEMENT
Tm (met as, alin proninonn, Witcit oa] [Wan ina zawtna cas alfa stivetaiie, WIC OW
Cnt Bate neat Antec 7 aevt Ie batt nearer oO
Pon H—CHANGE IN NAME OF ENROLLEE
Ti tank ie WnicH THIS EHAOLLmi aT 1S CAGIICO wad 7 P4 CuaMGLD TO Oo

ta Dane a

Port 1.—CHANGE IN ENROLLMENT—SURVIVOR ANNUITANT
YOUR ENsOU mE! mag BN CHANGLD FaGu Fanny CGVIERGE 19 ELF OMW, OUP PAH We my
Sino $Ou a Revver Conic Cato aan a
vous new vacant |
com monet |
nowt ts tm to 1 COOH Fett svteve cay a]
Port J.—REMARKS 2. - ; Aare

| | J

Part K.--DATE OF NOTICE
Central inteliugence Ageay

ALTH BENE? (fs OFFICER “Waitiaton 5, ie
~~~ (ALTERUATE)

Tout

eee peemeims Gregg wea a cae SuktTaRATEe Employing Ctiice



“Secret

+ COKTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST
Teas Tyy T
TRAAP aT

cra.ow tre mutta acy

Ney Cop.se Ub peed

penerrrerrreres
pate to Tad contnact,
a)

Sta2t Seployoe converting to Staff Agen

ie. CORTMACT (3 To OC eRITTUN te 37e
Tet.. Swee. Govtmmurnt® CZ) v4

ROW SUBICCT*S wowt AND PERFORWED CATCH THE SUPCRY:
SECTION TF : g PERSONAL OATA
es cr izenseee Ve. WF wOF U3. clTizée, taprwiouat 1B a Pua [ip. Ace

“U.S.Ae : I piled on Cae ema Je 33 HY Sentendor 27, 1532

Ta agony MqWERCe (ity and state or comstey) Tyaneat atgioenct (City end stare or coveter)
old Brock, ‘fe Ve Foresttille, hey
fy. wanitan dvatuy (Checd wa appvopeTave)
Co eee Cgpaeene (oy ene Cp ane Cone
oivincat 13 ecuareo Tex aT rT

sJMGCR OF OCPENGENTS “(Not Ineleding dndividwal) 1%
ah AWOIYIOUAL CUMACKTLY WORKING FOR THE AGENCY Im Sout

LATIONS AND. hl
ae - nearionnte | GD

Son

Staff-agant

‘Date OF olatw (Meath, dey

US. MILITARY STATUS

SECTION UHH

L 30. neatave at, VETERAN Za, If ACTIMED, INDICATE CaTEGoRy (Longevity, combat diem
- facet Wa. Yes ability, aoreice disability nonveosbet)

23. GRANCH OF SERVICE ‘4. RANK OB “GRADE ‘25. ORAFT ELIGIBLE ‘26. DRAFT DEFERMENT COTRINED

H U.S. Arny Corporal ore poe wen yue CJ

SECTION IV CONPENSATION

TF, OASIC aAtaRY Te. vosT OWFEREMTIN [#9 Caves (Breakdown, TT why)
ation ¥i13 5

TE Gobet
38-07(1s) HAs ately

30, FEDERAL TAX WI RERLOING

i equivalent of
lary. The exact anoun’
ctormmined at Fivanee brief

SECTION V ALLORANCES (NORMAL
cas | 33. Post

3h. gua
None

Hone Xone

34. CovER (Breakdown, 1 any)

TRAVEL

Stetson vi
3. Tyee ; Tar witw berenbeTs

: ar to ae a nat To 0€ S088 Ta, PERSONAL vEwTGLE To et SuiPPtO [ OO. TERPORTTD SIE VS IE
I ve Tx [ee i fo Te 8 Ik [oe

TF WITw OUPENDENTS STATE RELATUONSWIP, CITIZENSHIP, AGE AND DATE OF BIRTH

Wife UsSede 30 3 Sept. 1934
Son, UsSeAe 6 18 Fab. 1959

ais Pavaen? ae aCcounTapienTY
Cx) ete eee

teres «

GPERATIONAL LAPENSES ede

perl

PURCHASE OF IMFoemaT iow 43 deteeTareater

PAYWENT ayo ACCOURTAGILIND WIL OE Im genvatwanel itn



rv isiow

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST t “ i buefs
wT ore
aE 5 a 26 April 1965

OTE SER INSTRUCTIONS OW FlesT Suse.

“otmie wntrits

SECTION VIN ;
ae. eemttits (See WA TOT. Re TOT Aa TOV, WE TOG), end i 10-0401 EB IW TOOOTT andlor wacevasar tebelations Tor
Betebies sablacebie to vare Mor tes ef canceect parsonn :
Extitlod-to.all. benefits of a Staff Employee ef eee ; -

STATUS,
(Chee)
TF COVER" PAYGENTS, ANECCONTERPLATEO, THEW WIDU BE EOTECTED OW RE ImDuRi

: Che ie] Cl eomraere
we oan OFFSET OF tntouE

64 GF TAGGuE tnd OTHER EMOTE OURTVED Tow cOvER_aeTINN TIES GFT T
alia [es Re Re
eT : 7 Fin

rs oaaato8 a | acai

TI

Tan TERWIWATION NOTICE (Nuaber of dave)

Than total, justily in separete wooo

30 0
aeeaen

ae 6
(Oa TO CONTRACT TEMNINATIO

Cee

35: FORFEITURE OF RETURN TRAVEL FOR PESTGRATION

Secriow xT Fonction

[isc parwany-ranetion (cr, Fly PP, ovher)
Supgort - finance

SECTION XII

37. GENE@AL OESCRI

DUTIES.

Tow OF DUTIES To

Fiscal Accounting Assistant

SECTION XIV QUALIFICATIONS
sa. ExPERIENCE

BOD CiA as Staff Employee by March 1957

oe vensen [atte sencoe encouste | [reson verooe conouate

39. coucaTiow 3
Cheek Migheat
Level Attsined

connect (¥o degree, counece oteeee
joo. Languace core tency uancuast sPeae waite

[cheek Appropriate derman Hie “Tx
tree Competency
Japanasd

G2. AREA KnOwLEOce

CET

Teotviouan's
CouTaY oF Om,

UsSehe

Okinawa, Jagan

SECTION AV oe EVPLOWWENT PRIOR TO ¢
G3, Cte INCLUSIVE DATES, PERITION FIVER GA T¥E SORK, SALARY AnD REASON FOR LEAVING

Dec. 19S = March 1957 + U. $3. Army

AEDITIONAL INFORUATION
VIVEATIONE GR EXPLANATIONS (Eee other wade OF

SECLION AEE eee
fea. aber tioeay O@ Usosual MtguiateEe TD. ww

Lay



QUTH BENEFITS REGISTRATION FC 1

C7 7 PSs

aust Pu
a nis
man,

“GORE 4 u
: Pidtar FonGrht hime wempnia act oP teae 7e1%
Baad erertivon sen MEF | 073128
Tom 1 Sa or oe 5 he yoo row aries?
PART A = 201
xt mo
nowt TW mS
si mS ea pe ne Re rsa

remue (0)

aT Ke pee cnewl by, or Bony To 2
ferns ba ae encaling In, 9 plan under tho Tedevol Emplcyeos
Hercin terein Ast of 1959 nrc ah the ervoliment cl omer
Unies Sizes oe Dattict ef Colenisn Government amgisyee OF
ennchent?

fangs.

tooo no s3s00 TA] sn

Sao [Fo Pisce an YB piper bar Ta show yoo weal banc wal

wwoen 54909 [FT] 85000 10 an 907 CS]

aceo ceone CLs]

PART B
Ties
ma
win ioe
mune

MeNcTW SMES |

om bees

I tates wee! oa hocllh beret vn
(Goer Pe nko

to core or Sale ofthe cout ef Be eoellnent,

Tavtorte dedvcune to be mode tom my wit, corner
ron resvensed below hom anit coves of Lroxvare of Be pon pov bole! I

7 oF ora

(Ortioe an OF Om

low

ea

ad Fl
it jou a 1

rt
regitenate eh

a you

sig hie Tecepbon
sip utopia co Semond wees em ooh

ram who

19 or wee)

led Leloie eye 18 and who, Lecaute ot the daubity, 1s ncopable

1 comontoda
rageisr pureat-caid elation

AMES OF PAREN MEMBORS

ils PART MUST
MSO BE FILLED
nF YOU
‘Gece ToUR
BRROLLWERT,

ie}

eepnss fs swiss of mental oF gpa cal duabiily wha can Se expected Wo continue for mare Man one yoo?
a heg "steve 9 oor corteate

[o. Wyse ov 2 female [employee cr anmviton!)—doet the hinily ined above include a husband who is Incoposie of tail

(i uwer

PART €
Fit ns
Mat 103
wa NON
intoit Ot IF
FOU Wind 1D
Gut Your

[faswearear i

SEAS RENT Gaim 3, WHAT ARIE IND OE EN

O The ran fa iy slechion i Place on A w prover bowl

of 2y a plan under the Haulin Cenelty Act tu
1 haxbond, wife, oF puree

ee: Be pect Sena Ac.

2 Vaing we carci my proton! enrol

mont aner toe Health Benefity Act

toa which a net under the Keath

ough the onrctl:

root hn peemin change

=|"

reste “sg
st tt wife ‘be
Y fortis paar : Zo
paererrecperY grt torr] 2 oat a D baane Oat OF
Bsns Gree fechas
PART F
wu
courem Tt
n
acon,
~AS pm
i Pa Ate iS ¢
Tipieere— ta kmpiapeg Ofue pore)



APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS:

IMPORTANT. Before swearing to these appointment affidavits, you should read and Grideretand
the attached infotmation for appointee i

do solemnly, swear (or affirm) that—

A. OATH OF OFFICE

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that 1 will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely
without any. mental reservation or purpose of evasion;‘that I will weil and faithfully. discharge the
duties of the office on which I am about to enter, SO HELP ME GOD.

B. AFFIDAVIT AS TO. SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY AND AFFILIATION

Iam not a’Communist-or Fascist. I-do not advocate nor am I knowingly a member of any
organization that advocates the overthrow of the constitutional form of the Government of the

~United States, or which. seeks by force or violerice to deny other persons their rights-under the

Constitution of the United States. I do further swear (or affirm) that I will not so advocate,
nor will I knowingly become a member of sitch organization during the petiod that I am an em-
ployee of the Federal Government or any agency thereof. He
C, AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIKING AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

T am not participating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any
agency thereof, and I will not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United
States or any agency thereof. I do not and will not assert the right to strike against the Govern-
ment of the United States or any agency thereof while an employee of the Government of the
United ‘States or any agency ‘thercof, I do further swear (or affirm) that I am-not knowingly a
member of an organization of Government employces that asserts the right to strike against the
Government of the United Statcs or any agency thercof and I will not, while an employee of the
Government of the United States or any agency thereof, knowingly become a member of such an
organization. F
D, AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE OF OFFICE :

T have not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred, promised or paid any con>
sideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing such appointment.

E. AFFIDAVIT AS TO DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE
The answers given in the Declaration of Appointee on the reverse of this form are true and

correct.
a 5 ia X
k Yareh 1957 peste

‘ertrence 8 duty)

Subscribed and eworn before me this it!

at... te
ws)

{seat}

NOTE.—If the oath is taken before a Notary Public the date of expiration of his commissisn should
be shown, eres


DECLARATION OF APPONITEE
Ane

questions, Admitted unfavorable
the fierab‘e :nformation
However, a file sta
oiatnient and is punshabte by law,

2 te be orcesited before enleanee on dit
pr edischarges Will be consi

nt Fitness for Fe

ia

THREW abonres diene ancl numer ee ae Si

¥I6_ Bt 90. Miss aa

qoute or nata i° AS

PVUhvelaad, Chiro...

cs [CD RELATAMSMIR 7 1GG) STURT AND RUNALA CTY AND TATE 9 PEGG g | reaper Ra

hig
2) asp a Q
Mas_(seneldias Masher. Lamers Are!
{Ne Tr Unite crag counsvar Ewe on

a ony eG BY BUCO Cs MARRINGA) WITH AHO FOU LIV OR HAVE LED WITHIN
vs Xe

Fe eaces tne, adevtsen Senmmay mete une ton th

(Ging sont numnber, fara) Tunowe

esha wy}.

in (oite ana State

J ioregneountty) se

fer _iAreo

WWDICATE ANSWER BY PLASING "IC AN eROPED COLUAN |r| 10 INDICATE ANSWER BY PLACING "x" IN PROPER COLUM vs no

WE yond TINGE Tal HSS PACER OPER a awe
We Us pitiaak SAMOA C9 YO) ORL RLERORE 10 IML UMTED Ghote the rtotiatanatove: 3 onouP GFE asoRanct ACT?

mewexeor

ef SINCE YOU FLED APPLICATION FSULTING IN TH APPOTATULA
AVHAME YOU HIEM ERCHUSCLD HAM CUMOYHENT BCAUEES
CD YOUR CONOLET WUE MOT SATESACTORAY

(YOUR were WAS SOF SATICTORNT

3.bo you preeive oa wave You,
Shalt Grnermcrar ese
Book AV BENSEN OS
Saver

Lt pour ansveee is

oe Eid ate
imen ALL Sth Caahued vest Be A

ee i (ads ll

ee Daer ene
Fmt. ane : SERED FROM TE ARIE EERUELS ORR |
i sour tine. met eal seh aes ase

a ane Pr S PBB} —
ou, Greco WS gai Sppsaeumcar bc nl etsatcee
with tne Chal Seenee Ane appaness Gone Sorting Rules ard Meputaionn ond acs cP pepeps pertain t0 9p ‘
This form should be theekad fe Berne of oltce: pension. ay record ef receat cast re fe nerest, age, terion pnd a
bers of famly, Algo to estates ate sieaty of the appointee, you sneuid particulars Lieb (1) hie signature abacadeadweting

sgainst the application and/or ota pe acat papers and (2) hia physical appearance acaipeythe medicat cevtiieateg
eA eeriratat matin ect toate



12 Mareh 1959

Tot Porconnel ‘Division
Front Jones B. wileott, Jr.

Subjects Supplements to personnel records

Pleads udd to ny personnel records the attached
information concerning my education anc recently born
child,

Won I sibaitted my Personnol History Statenont
vith ay application for employzent I vas etill attending
business school. Therefore, ny final transcript and
graduation certificate vere not included.

The attached auto-stat copiss are attached as instructed
by Personnel Livision.

* Alec attached 4s a copy of my grade report for tho let

tera at the U. S. Department of Agriculture

ers end se
Graduate school for Elementary Faderal Government Accounting.
Léa
‘ Van delinst fe
ae

JAMES B WILCCTT JR


ford
wks,
a

ay 4
ues #3
Cc

dby the FF
sovgniced 2

ehrnsiy 27,

2, WDSe

ed morthy

Ee

Pastitete, by which these

vee vf ite 5



taesrd tort,
aticivds tuwere ners,
Saractl Agpeszrpca,,

Ae tedatos__

apace tleae |
Baryoct —lareta| Sorstanal Cross }
4. Sonera ocean
: 7 |
a E

De bose

Tanlee Sadhana





ROR TAL STATUS

@fsccrion 1x

[ee

re

pees | &:

Ets OW WRU MENTS

rc on
huseanoe

3. waMe OF sPouse (Rivets

IF YOU WAVE BUCH MARRIED WORE THAN ONCE,
GIVING DATA RLOUIAED BCLOW FOR ALL PAEWICUS WARRLAGES.

WNELUDING ANNULUERTS, URE SHIGT FOR FORUEE RIFE OR HUSBAND

(an aatey

a DATE OF want ace Sine

OF wanavnce

fe Onte oF carey

OF ciate

o supse!

foo WaTVoNALITY AT Ol

‘QUENT cITiTENENIPS

PREGEAT RES TOENEE (ERAT FFT

Teer

© [stcrion x

GH ORER

Fu mae

PLACE OF plate satiomaciny ay

i

@ [section xt

FATHER

T. Fatt wane

Watvowa tty AT os

fa. veanor eat) PLACE OF BIRTH

 SUASCOUENT cHTIzEMSHIPS

PRESENT BEEIOERCE

e. accuPation |

jo

ofsecrien xi

OER

To FuLe wane

So FLASe oF BIRTH WATVSNALITY ay B4RTH

2. VEAROF BATH

SUBSEQUENT CHTHZENSHIPS

je. OgcuPaTiGN 7 PRESENT OESTDENCE



Giro ria

og

‘Section
ve PaLSEAT CItidinsniP [3 MATIONALE

‘Bn Any SUBSLQUENT Citizemsnirs (20 different than Blew he)

4. PRESEMT RESIDONCE (Iadscote ae oom)

ie, Fanant 9 wads fomank)

“PERMANENT ADORESS (2P different th

an Them 3)

Sr IF Usd, WATURALIZED CITIZEN. GIVE NAME, DATE, CITY AmO NUMER OF CERTIFICATE GaaNTED

. TAAVEL OUTSIDE CountRY OF PRESE

BEstoemce (Countra

Gates and purposes)

SECTION iT

OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA

1 PRESENT OCCUPATION

“& FIWANCEAL STATUE (Barmrnge,

‘SECTION IY,

ne rime

‘Band depowite, securstien and ptoperty)

‘ORGAN ZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

V. WOMBEASMIP In RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS

SECTION V

PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IM PROFESSIONAL ANG SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS:

POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS

EOUCATIONNL ATA

1. SCHOOLS

MAME AND LOCATION OF So¥ooL |

awe oF .couRsE

DATES ATTENOED

orcree
preter)

US Dept. of Agriculture
aduata School Wash D. .¢
US Dept. of Agriculture

enentary Federal Gov.
counting 1st_semester,
ementary Federal Gov.

|-Sept1957 |
{accounting 2nd samester | Fah 1958 |

LANGUAGES AND O1ALEA

crs

Lancuace

courerince,

below each Langvege
‘any degeee of copatence.)

eh you

UNDERSTAND



1a. pen SECRET - yy

pee CMO
Wilcott, James Bernard Jr,

eas (Noy Stevets City, fone, Statey =

© coment

Governor Shephard apts Apt 103
2121 Virginia ave NW Washington, 7 D.Ce

FewaNTRY AODNESE (Nery Siveet, Clty

Tone, Seavey

Twat TeUePWONE WOT esate,

3771 Ex 103

TSeerERABLY RESTOING IN VAS.
ott

TREC RTTOR SAT
Tate

TERRITORY) POIETTTOG GF COURTAY TR HTER JOU NOW CUNT BETTIE
Washington, D.C. |
BERSOR To HE NOTIFIED Tn CASE OF OXERGENCY

Wout A0ORESS (NS, Stveet, City, fons, State, Cauley}.

2121 Virginia Ave SW Washington 7, D.C,

BUSINESS ADORESS (Vary Steet, City. Hone, State, Coumtly je

2430 E St. Washington, D.C.

TSSIERTE wae OF Fit OW GUPLOVER, IF MPPLICABLE

TwOwE TELEPHONE wumnEe .

Ra 83771 ™ 103 EX 3-615

Wisiwess TELEPHONES

Nowate I" ‘DusTness TLIPNONE LATINS TON

Ex 3229

We EASE OF Cucnatucr, OTMER CLOSE RELATIVES (SP
NS NOT DESIRAGLE BECAUSE OF HEALTH GH OLNER REASONS, PLEASE

a0 Wether

FABEC) why aso OL OTIFICD. IF SUH NOTIFICAT
so stare.

SECTION IH HARI TAL STATUS.

eimai [owwnseo

te occa ia) ont DS

ort)

[errsared Torvoncre)

NA

TR Fumwisw DATE, PLACE and ACASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES Go ANWLMIMTS

isrovss. 1f you have

la macceed wore than once, including anrelnen te
Ef earrings (1 contemplate

sheet for former vile oF
provide sane date for france.

[esdend giving date below for all previous mar:
pererrs (Firat eeddtey (warden (hasty
4 Elsie Louise a Wilcott.

cs oy ism

we (€0ty, State, Counter)

gle Bay, New York USA

Brook, New York USA.

ROOREES ‘OF SPOUSE OLFSRE wAmAIAGE (NO.. Street. Clty, State,

= TONED

7 tiviwe o oare pF beat

caus OF bent THR

T euaaent wanes € Ti evened)

2121: Virginia ‘ive BW, Washington 7, D.C,

Vi oare or orm Te Puace OF o1mmy (ity
ef Colt

id Brook, New York

‘State, Goantey)

(iets Te
THE yale se

‘DATE OF EwtRy [ta PLACE OF ENTRY

Ta. 4F 9ORN OUTSIDE U.
RA

7 Bate acaUIACD

Ser Ta Fenenie (Coun FFD

Wate, Counter)

Ti wrtae aauints (Cire

Te occuPation os

Govern, clerk steno

rapleyed, f

Pacseyy tarcarie Cave fy

Terese saployer, of WV apoune ie

Fe. CupLovens ow wbietss adeatss (3

hington, D.C.

St.

Steet. City, State. Commtey)

seus terrtone. SECRET
ry

SECTION 111 COnVIOGED TO PAGE?



a

‘SECTION (11 CONTIMYED FPON PAGE 1
and For) By wSstw AnD YEAR 7

Bi- DATES-oF Miki TaRy, STRVICE OF SPOUSE (PF
None
FF aeiwew OF deeviee

Na

DUTAWD OF DINER COVEANMINT SERVICED UvEy OF FORE TOR

prertrrrertiry

y witw ewiew Mier Tame 8

None

6} section Wy RELATIVES BY GLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION LIVING ABROAD OR WHO ARE KOT U.S. CITIZENS
pact waut (LeatePreatsmrddley Speers sure: 7 REUAT CONSHIP marry
iene euareiee f is

‘@, ADDRESS OF COUNTRY Vw BNICH PELATIVE REDIONS

7. OATESOF LaBT CONTACT

Contacr

 Civazensnip (Counteyy o Facauency

ioFivet -Widatey Wo wtvationsnie

Te Fate wae (

“@ AODRESH OF COUNTRY IW BNIgH RELATIVE BESIONS

 Crvitumswie (Counter) oo warautncy oF CONTACT

PY a. Foie awe (heat-Frrecswiddle) ia RECATHOMSH IP

ADDRESS GA COUNTRY IN wHICW RELATIVE BFSIDES

T Dave OF Unt CONTAC?

DATE OF Vast CONTA

a3 o Facauewey oF CONTACT

To Fate wane (Lewt-FivatWraddey

‘ADORESS O@ COUNTHY IN RHIGH RELATIVE RESIDES

Citi aewamie (Country) Tov aCOUENEY OF CONTACT et aie OF CAST Contact

SPECIAL BOWABKS. 1 ANY. CONCEAWING THESE RELATIVES

FANAUCEAL_ STATUS

SECTION ¥
ig ant_vou Entinuuy othenoent oy wave SACSRVT =e

TmVERE ST IW, OM OFFICIAL CONNECTIOW ITN, NON'U.S: EQRPORATIONG OR BUSINESIES O8 TN OM
Eyres Ey no tr vos nave

2.00 vou wave any FunancraL
WITH U.S. CORPORATIONS C8 BUSINESSES HAVING SUBSTANTIAL FORLICN 1

ansmenco "YES."

ANY RETIAOWENT ACT,

CoLLMa A GOvCRNMENT Uni

9.0 YOU RECEHVE AN ANNUITY FROW THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT
Pens 104, 28 COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY GR WAVAL SERVICE? (aves

Give cowPeeTe BETATUS

fa TF vou wave awswameo "VES" TO QUESTION > ABOVE,

Hy wife also receives a salary,

JR witwour meFewence TO vou SALARY, STaTe OTMEA SOURCES OF MIGUMMERT INCOME NOT INDIEATEO BY PRECEDING ITEMS,

SECTION vy Confimufo 1 PAGE 3
SECRET a
2


Mae oF astitunion

jational Bank of Washington

SVES™ Fo QUESTION 7 ADOWE, GIO PARTICGLARS, FOCUUD

TS are
tase CC] eras cseecnfoy:

fav OF CURAERY CITTTANSMNP

USA

PR RNT o0 tai ohirs To ener voce
Pecsasrciniaenswirt Co}eny epee

wed

TF ace BepErSATiON (PHIBE pe

Sry

E_courer on unnnetsrey SRBY
suoner Dates AVTENSED

AME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY

use Univ. t

1

NAVE OF SCHOOL Stuey oR sercume7ar

Gontral City Business Institute accounting (2 years)

a tuttamy TRAINING (Full tree duty 1m spectslived tehoola tore oe Cedvane

AME of scwooe stu9y om seccuacazanion,

Sune 1949

T_eaT TaeaT Sone Taninise SHY ROVeATO TEN AE prosont taking a course at OS Dept of Agro
‘Title = Elegentary Federal Government Accounting

SECRET
FE



cn SERED

dtm) =

efsectica vine SGEOGPAPHIC AREA KNOWLEDGE

era

samt .or accion of counter | tyre oF sec

aesvocnce om

veatd tHe PuRPORE OF ¥

UiaY ptLow awy Foocr@y @FGIONS OR COUNTRIES OF OHICH VOU NAVE GAINED KNOWLEOGE ABA RESULT OF ORGANIFATION
aasicuwtnr om actiar ty: Yi

mMOnLEnGE ACQUIRED By

7 oares oF

nat CF ACGION OR couNter TYPE OF SPCCHALIZED RNORLEOGE acsrotnce,
tmavEL. TE,

| ‘ti
o| ero Trine ad STENOCEMNTE HLS
1s Teeiwe 8PM) [2 snonteanoc®.Pow. JP 3. SHORTHAND SYSTEW USED + CHECR CX) APPROPROATE ITEM
ho ia gree ae ecuared [otwre tsevestri
Fone ee ey Bookkeeping
S£CTi Om x SPECHAL QUALIFICATIONS:

Chess + Fair, Football - fair

RESULTING FRGW EXPERIENCE OF TRAINING,

on

TROTEATE vouR PROFTEN

Thich wicat TIT vou FOR A PARTICULAR

Fo vepreate any SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS.
DOSITION Om TYPE OF vonk

US Dept of Agr. Graduate School - Flomentary Federal Government Accounting

Ex? WOTEO tH SEETIOW ¥, L191 Any SPECIAL SQVLLS YOu POSSESS RULatING 10 OTmEN LQUIPGENT OF MO
KY UATHC, SCIENTIFIC AND PROFESSION ML OCICES. CFC

SeTeree ens
CHINES SUCH AS GPERATION OF SHORTHAVE RADIO, MULTICETH, TU

Rational Bookkeeping machines, comptometer, caloulator

VF vO EA A LICERSED Of CEATIFI{O wiwate OF any TRADE O@ PAO!itaIoN (Pilot, Blecteician, Radio Oper
CPA, Wedscal Tachmscian, etc.). IMDLCATE THE MIND OF LICENSE ON CEATIFHEATE: Wau OF TSSUING STATE,

mocrster nomece, 1F anor

Rona iz

Tiegh cacunse Ge Ceativicate (Yosr eF 7 [ Tavis) vretwae aritieate (¥ear oT taawey
caine eet SECRET -
s Ne



SECRET

(anon Potted bay

walsan tequevted).

aiimon (bo vat abort ea
fencrat interest ode

Vietaon, eitentsthe arteele:

Ciauro waFeaiALa Go awvew Ou ae 1
Pom iearion ano Tre or aeiting (40
short etersea, ete.)

nt

(STATE ead Tate Oa WOT WHEY BRE PTERTED

TE aay DEVICED WIEH VOU WINE TOVERTE

perrirstcy

Rone

37 any Paortsstonat, s¢A0i
MEUBERL LIST ACADEMIE HONORS YoU MAEVE RECEIVED,

None

"SECTION XI ORGANIZATION VORK EXPERIENCE ~ SINCE LAST COMPLETION OF A PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS QUESTIONNAIRE
and Fox) ia )0N7 awawcw OF ASSTONMONT

“3/20/57 to 2/15/58 Fiscal Div. Accounts Rranch

TNO, OF UuPLOvEES UNDER YOUR DIAECT
surervistox None.
Eo eescaIPTION OF OUTIES

‘OF mOnowaty ASHOCIATIONS Of SOCIETIES Im muigw VOU AWE ROW OR

Fosting of financial transactions to. Allotsent Ledgers

‘OFF ICE/OIVI SION? BRANCH OF ASSICAMENT

‘inance Div, Tax_and Compensation Branct

To peuyse eared GIG end Tonya eeawe
| 2/15/58-to Present

onan
None _
[a beiavirrio oF ori :
; Preparation of payroll documents considering base and premium pay and allowances,
: Maintaining of leave records, Conduct liaison with area division on payroll proble:
i

sureRy

Application of Agency pay regulation:

TV WNccUsIVE Batug (Frew: and far) Vet /utvisiow/@eawcn OF ASSIGWWENT

‘Geace] 3. OFF ICK/OI¥ISION/ORANCH OF ASSICAMENT

je wetusivg oates (From and Feoy [at
[3 errvcra rostriow reve

Pa NO. OF ENPLOVECS UNDER YOUR o1eECT
fo sorerveston

oF ouries

7 BeSeR IPT

Grd Fonj [oo Gave |b. OFFICE/DIVISION/ORANGH OF ABSTGHMENT

“iNctuaive ates (Prem

Orricial Position THTeE

NG, OF EwPLovEES unokR vauw OVeter |
31° Sureavision 7

iq, oescnuPtign oF puters

additional pores st cous

SECRET
3


SECRET

(ohen Plbed ts

ADDITIONAL COWMENT ANO/OM CONTINUATION OF PREELOING. #1

I feel that ny instruction at the Dept. of Agr. Oraduate School 1s giving mo a

good foundation 4m governmental accounting and I sincerely hope it will be
considered in future agetgnments,_

Pieter pr ovtoree

les Lex Briche yi er
. es > SECRET -
: en

pave Cow etea



e

“Jot government expense, overseas duty, return to residence upon separation, and for provi

fai ar 4
* ey WAP
CONFIDENTIAL f VBL.

Ctde Eile Fe)
[Cociplote wn duplicate, The date recordedon ts Termin esséntval in delermininy Wavel expensed cllowabl

in cohnection withleave
ing current nd dependency infor

imation reavivedin the event ofan employee emergency. The original of tive form nll be Inledin'the employee's lice personnel folder

cos
LEKALED All

TRESIDENCE DATA _

Niwa ur ewPLovee (Let

Wdantnt weae | woud Leave wenloENce

I CONTINENTAL U.t, DEMONATED AD

Cub  F&0e,

MARITAL STATUS (check ened
aRaTEO

WE [UL asese I Tease

ea
LHELE “ioe W744 i WHGE

TF DIVORCED, PLACE OF DIVORCE DECREE

Tex

TF widowes, PLACE spouse DIED Dave wouse oid

1 PREVIOUSLY MARRIED, INDICATE NAMEUG) OF SPOUSE, REASONIG] POR VERMINATION, AND OATEW)

Nant OF SPOUaE
LStE LOU
Nawes oF CniconEN

steven’ TRAES

DATE OF ORTH

| leafy

TELEPHONE NO.

aE ARR Tas oC aaa i
Bures Ketnied Mieke | aoe =o REE

NAME OF RoonEsT

ESTHE Spud Miecl YEE Lie aey
Mra MEMO Of TRUM PAY 9 Bits AS BLE TOL OF OU AF

fe TELEPHONE WOMBER

510 Behee ere pie vices
ULE ACRE ae <7 LY csccrccice [Business TELEPHONE # ExTENsION|

BUSINESS ADORESS (No, Streets City, Zones State) ANG WANE OF EMPLOY!

W% THE INDIVIDUAK NAMED ABOVE WITTING OF YOUR AGENCY AFFILIATION? (il "No® give name and oddvene of organize |
thon he Baltewss you mark ft) ves

ks AY =a

We Pris InoIiOUAL AUT
ton we can make tuch dec

BEB YO MANE BEERGIT GW YOON BEMALFY TH THO" Gis mame mal eines piven [ves
Mar tose ad esomgee

STEIS MOIMOUAL AWOW Twat WE WA BEEN DESIGNATED Ad YOUR EMERGENCY AUOBESSERT (Ul manar fw Ao
eS.

je because of

‘ase of emergency. If such notification is not desis
reverse side of this fe
CONTINUED ON REVERSE SIDE

CURRENT RESIDENCE AND DEPENDENCY REPORT

The persone
health of other re

198 6] uae paeerous CONFIDENTIAL

oe kbtrions. y a


. CONFIDENTIAL
hen Flted Ind
CUNTARY ENTRI EBTEREEHesttnas atonsasesossssesocsssrs= apiiais
thos shown that the ebuence of certain personal dots often delays. ond compl
i aétherte The information requested in this section: may prove very uselul to your fax
bility oF death ond willbe disclosed only when cwcunatances worraht,
a vou WAVE wo

jorney in the event of your
(3 AOORENY OM Goes SANRING INSTITUTIONS w

imeens Bank of Mek ylen) a 2
Qvecoate, AL # Hho -- 5%

BAW srr

3S ANO THE NAMED IN OnICH THE AC

“THT “Yea where ta document focared®)

Ea eg ve

Save TOU PREPLAED tiv NERANGEE GOARDIANAIAF OF VOUN CRILOREW IN CATE OF COWmION GIUABTER FO BOTH PARENTS?
ore fy.3) (NO, (If T¥e0" give name) end addreea)

Wave VeU SRRCUTED W POWER OF ATTORNEY [a] VER BL] NO UAVaaR we possess ie power oF aere7

TIMUATION OF PRECEDING ITEMS.

AObIFIONAL DATA AND7OR CON

Yyirck ‘nee

CONFIDENTIAL,



ischimret, |*ATEMENT OF PRIOR FEDERAL CI’ nN AND MILITARY SERVICE
Fourie mao ‘ AND DETERMINATION OF CuniPETITIVE STATUS

RIPORTANT: ‘The information’on thie forin will be used (1) In determining evedstable'sétvice for leave purposes and retentloa
exedita for'reduction in force, and (2) in recoding’ agency determiciation of competitive status. ‘The employee
he should complete Part Vand the Prrsonor! Office should complete Parte 11 thivugh

PART H1—-THIS COLUMN I$

"PART LEMPLOTEE'S STATEMENT, FOR PERSONNEL OFFICE USE

1 MAME (Lie, aret, eusddie inctial co fe OAT OF BIRTH

WILCOTT, JAMES RERNARD, JR. 27 Sept. 1931

SUSE THE FauoMnN, NPbeuaTon conctaNinG A FERCAL AND DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA SERVICE YOU HAE HAD
PRIOR TO YOUR PRESENT APAUNTNEAT (De nol tncluce anvitaty eorrion] ieee

jnacconts (je T=
2B tyre or pecctwr
Hetty

ea EE
ittedated arateetedee ‘vesn | wowtm | vay | vean | wont | oar “foc cL Ae
Nowe

PERIODS OF ACURE SERVICE IN ANY BRANCH OF THE ARWED om m ME
PERIODS OF ACITE SCAVICE IN FORCES OF THE U! i IF YOU MAD MO ACTH

trounce
Sern Ta] Honor aah.

no] Hem

23108 \08

ve TOTAL Sevice
g

WITHOUT PAY, INCLUDING PERIODS OF MERCHANT MARINE
IF ANSWER IS “YES,” LIST FOLLOWING INFORMATION,

13. NONCREDITABLE SERVICE
(atve purposes ony)?

eb aan el Sd cy
tw 07, ruth Suipe AWOL, Mee Mat) aa Deana [ov | wan | wom | ow [ram [eos |

1 TTATLE SENWiCE
(HUF purposes ony)

Eee ee

© DURING THE FEDERAL SERVICE LISTED IM [Tea 3, DID YOU ACQUIRE AFEMWANCAT COMPETITIVE CIVIL SESVICE STAT

Owes Oro

Gt anmwer & "¥en" in what agency ware you employed at the tiene et

se wae acquired)

TARE YOU:
AL TWE wire oF A cous veto [] wes [10
18 Tt Morwon or x oxceasco on osAmLeD Verenane [] ves
Tet yercunanca meow or vere [J ves ff] cel

1E To BE EXECUTED BEFORE A ROTARY PUBLIC OR OTHER PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO ADMINISTER OATHS

Tewear (or affirm) that the above statements are truc to the Seat of iny knowledge and belief. )

1 H
U March 1957

oro wear

Subscribed and sworn to before me on thie Mth gay of isto 105Ia_Hanbtagean, Db
SEAL Conn (Péesee rye

dopointzent Clerk
1 the date of expiration of his Commusson thould be shown.

NOTE: If oath is taken before a Notary Publ
INSTRUCTIONS: File this form on the permanent side of tha employee's olficial personnel folder immediately before or alter the penoenel
‘ation lavolved.

(OVER)



[Pact 111. DETERMINATION OF COMPETITIVE STATUS. (Comevete for foncompetitive hires Based on conpetitive status
JQuived by snatructions in FPM Chapter SJ.) Bmpioyce hana competitive statue. This determination la based upon the ful
jevulence: 7

he

(NAME OF AGENCY [SIGNATURE AND OFFIcvaL TITLE,

™ 4
: | , an

TATION DATE FOR LEAVE PURPOSES

2 ‘CREDITABLE ewrrancean | uss catoiranie | service com.
bictabeld SERVICE, DUTY DATE SERVICE PUTATION DATE

demi creer 139 __| tterave Purposes) | (Present Agence | (Leave Purnoses) | (Leave Purnones)

O35 oa | &7 O32. a3 aes
cg og. O38 cs C6 z
Dare rf | ef | ev of 26

MPUTATION OATE FOR REQUCTION IN FORCE PURFOSES, (Complete only in
ecuction jn force purposes difers fron tha arzount creditable for

PART V.—DETERMIMATION OF CREDITABLE SERVICE AND SERVICE CO}
A of creditable 9 fort

chose cazoa when the ame

ce | Noncreniraeue | carorrame LESS CREDITABLE
eae SERVE, SERVICE, ‘SERVICE

Wen ty Atego 1 (RIF Pungo) (RIF Purposes)

parercs

J SSermnmarecmeens lereaee Se



CONFIDENTIAL

(ahen Fisded 10) : 2

a : SECURITY APPROVAL

t-. DATE 1 20 November 1965
} YOUR ae i
REFERENCE: Memorandum dated 18 November 1965 |

} CASE NO. : 109301
t

t 19 : Director of Personnel i
| !
ATTN : e i

i

1

i

SUBJECT : WILCOTT, James B., Jr.

1. This is to inform you that Subject has been approved for the
appointment specified in your request under the provistons of
Headquarters Regulations 10-3 ani 20-5 including access to
classified information through TOP SECRET as ‘required in the
performance of duties.

2. Unless arrangements are made within 60 days for entrance on duty
within 120 days, this approval becomes Invalid.

|
|

3. As part of the entrance on duty processing:

ve arranged.

(7) A personal interview tn the Office of Security mi

A personal interview is not necessary.

(7) Please aivise Chief, Clearance Branch, extension 5620
when Subject: enters on duty.

4, This is’a conversion case.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Lert hbugfg |

- Steven L. Kuhn H
niet’, Personnel Security Divioton :

ih 173:

CONFIDENTIAL



CONFIDENTIAL

casen Fatted fe),

STAFF AGENT CLEARANCE

‘DATE t 19 April 1965

YOUR REFERENCE: 32273"

‘CASE BO, 3 #109301

1 Division

fa ° Chief; Contract Perse:

Staff Agents ‘Branch

Bilent ; footw 8

1. This ts to sdvis tty clearance is granted for the euploy-
ei rent of the Subject as “07, by DOP/WH in the capacity of

a. esire at a later date to change the status or

use ef. the Subject, a requ ry any proposed change should be submitted
to this office.

ance on duty within

3. Unless cs we zaie within 60 days for ent

the Office of Security must he arranged by

your office.
ESS] a personat :

O

ryiew is

{eter 1989 CONFIDENTIAL





oes cretion aa




























CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION
9 Bovenber 1956
_ TO.. Chief, Records ’& Services Divisica Your Referens: C-$841 Compt.
aa Persennel, Office
FROM: Chief./Security Division Case Number: 109301
Personnel

SUBJECT: WILCOTT, Janos Bernard, Jr.

1, This is to advise you of security action in the subject case as indicated
delow:

Security approval ie granted the subject person for access to classified
information.

ae fe) Provisional clearance for full duty with CIA is granted under the provisions

of Paragraph D of Regulation 10-9 chich provides for a terporary appoint-
ment pending completion cf fill security investigation.

The Director of Central Intelligence has granted a provistcnal clearance
for 11 duty with CIA under the provisions of parasraph H of Regulation

10-9,
Unless the subject person enters on duty within 60 days from the above
iste, this approval tecomes invalid.

Subject ia to be polygraphed as part of EOD procedures.

9) wa Liat!

CONFIDENTIAL

oh

FORM NO. 36-101
Fes 1939

