# 104-10185-10174

## Page 1

104-10185-10174

I: FORMATIONEREPOR

CINFORMATION REACE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Do 1nno0ni Enthem of the Unlted States within the sain

SE-C-R-E-T

NO FURELON DISSEY

couNTi Cuba

REPORT NO

SUURCT Ramiro VALDES Menendea

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

takaround Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

7 Jane 1346

1

CS-31L0*5E

DATE OF

1964

8 July ISt

INFO.

PLACE 4

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO

ABILL 1965)

THIS IS LINEVALUATED

FIELD REPORT NO.

ADINOS ATE DIVINITIVE APPRAISAR OF COA

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligruce

Service until April 1901.

Headguarters Comments :

The following refort is one of a series cortaining personatity

information provided by the source and includes supplental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees

take ne action or any c

the individuals mentioned in the persorality raports milkcu

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Ramiro VALDES Nenender, the Minister of Interder, lives to e

house on 9th Avenue between 66th and 68th

Stre+t.

The Br

is only a short distance from the Departmento

le Libertier

Vacional (National Liberation Department - Li) Iccat-d I==

Avenue in the Miramar district of Havana.

2. VALDES was married to one Irina VALDES; however, SCrEtiE- FEACT

to April 1964, they were divorced.

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I OLA

REPCISCLIST

T ARMY

CISCSO #

ation dedicated by "#'"')

NAVY

TASS

ASA

EP:

LINFORMATION REPORTE

WHS: CH

102/5,R

IIPLIN

DH: -85

THE NADR].

INEORMATION REPOET

JITE

• 3: LE

be. 115H

11-2133

iF

RID'IN

HEC WISE

TOTALS $55, 8 (1), NE 1 (1), CLA. RID 1

CONSTANT N

LIAISON #

PORN SET

201-265065

---

