# 104-10129-10157

## Page 1

104-10129-10157

DATE

TO

FROM !

ACTION &

INFO

345

19 AUG 60.

DIRECTOR

15-20

[FRANKFURT]

D/os z

COP, S/C?

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEERET

" ROUTING

2

3

AUG 19 i9OOZ 60

ROUT INE

IN 40403

20=20

DIR CITE FRAN 5207

RYBAT EJPUST

REF DIR 44702 out

20-20

1. INFO SLOBODA FURNISHED HOS IN FRAN (N 35458) U0/00

2. USAREUR INTEL DIV DOES NOT FEEL REPORTED DEFECTION DUTKANIC

HAS ANY GREAT SIGNIFICANCE PBPRIME INTELLIGENCE EFFORT. PRIOR

10 1 JAN G0 HE WAS CHIEF OF THREE MAN TEAM IN VHF PLATOON AND HAD

ACCESS TO SOL CODE INDICATORS, COORDINATE AND FREQUENCY CODES

CASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL. HE HAD SECRET CLEARANCE AT TIME BUT THIS

WAS REVOKED I JAN 68 BECAUSE PE POSSIBLE COMPROMISE WHEN HE TOOK

CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS HOME FOLLOWING A FTX. NO ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED

INFO SINCE®

3. DUTKANIEZ HAS MARITAL DIFFICULTIES WITH WIFE AND SHE REPORTED

HE HAD RELATIVES IN RUSSIA, DESIRED TO GO TO RUSSIA, ADMITTED HE

WAS A COMMUNIST AND ASSOCIATED MITH GERMAN NATIONALS WHO WERE COMM-

UISTS®

IN 55 RA AND IN 59 USAREUR CONDUCTED INVESTIGATION OF. LOYALTY,

NATURE AND BOTH INVESTIGATIONS WERE CLOSED FAVORABLY. NO FACTS

DEVELOPED BY MILITARY TO ESTABLISH HE WAS PROCOMMUNIST OR DISLOYAL

TO. U. So.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT & **

IN VIEW DEFECTION SPEC FIFTH CLASS VLADIMIR SLOBODA

AND CLOSE' SUPPORT

RENDERED COS GERMANY BY 513, HAS QUERIED IF THERE ANY COMPROMISE KUBARK SECURITI

27,01

SECRE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED:

- Copy Ne

5/SR

---

