# 104-10163-10100

## Page 1

104-10163-10100

PRIOR TO FILING

ROUTING AND RECORD. SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

06-C61-1724

TU: ACTION BRANCH

1.

Fill in Sect. 2.

back. Detach back

flap

and forward

to RID.

2. Destroy front covor sheet.

unless it

records significant action

taken or

If filo no.

and title shown are not

proper.

insert proper file no. below

and forward document to RID/AN.

consents requirinr, preservation.

FROM:

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

WH/4 REGISTRY

TO

ROOM

NO.

NE/4 REGISTRY

2.

DATE

OrPICES'S

RECEIVEO ¡FORWARDEO! INITIALO

30 dug zL

COPY DETACHED

03

live

W+t/4/PA

6.

8.

*.

2919 Quary

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

10.

FALA ACGISTE%

17.

RID/T1

TRACE

DATE MICROFILMEN

Malached

not RAM

D

RETURN TO CIA

Bacground Use Only:

•Do Not Reproduce

ARCYRACT

PILE TITLE

122/0

251689

DOCUMENT DATI

DOCUMENT NUMBEA

UFGA

02215

25 Rug 61

3/BR

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO

PRO

POSED

Chief, WED.

06-C0/-17.14

PROCESSING

ACTION

ACCOM

PLISHED

MAPRED FLA 1: 1 R:BC

ANFO.

Chief of Base, JMWAVE.

SUBJECT

Operational,/KUCAGE/JMZIP

ACTION REQUIRED - REJERENCES

ONLY QUALIFIE

NEADQUARTIES LESK

CAN JUDGE 1N263)53

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

Hestoration of citizenship

for ANCLATTER-1

Action Required: For information of office of General Counsel

As a follow up to conversations between Robert K. TROUCHARD, Terence S.

CRABANAC and the Office of General Counsel concerning present attempts to

regain for AMCLATTER-1 his lost American citizenship, TROUCHARD met

AMCLATTER-1 on 24 August. TROUCHARD explained that we were seeking a basis

for an administrative type of review of his case and needed any records shich

he might nave, such as notices from ODACID concerning his lose of citizen

Bhip, notices

from his attorneys in his attempts to regain citizenship

and copies of any pertinent correspondence.

The objective is to determine 1f

his citizenship can be restored ithout his having to leave the countay,

return in an innigrant status, and vait for a period of five years.

2.

AMCIATTER-1 stated that he had nothing in writing since he hed to Leave

PBRUNEl surreptivlously. He could only add the following commentary to those

records which were already in ODACID or ODURGE files:

recollection, the paragraph of the Nationality Act (he believes 1t to be

Bection 5) by which he was separated from his citizenship status atited thet

before procedure can be taken to remove anyone's citizenship he mist have

prior notification that such procedure is being contemplated and be all wed

to express his side of the question.

ANCIATIER-L states that he vas never

called in to be questioned, but received an after-the fact notifieation 1n

writing that le wus no longer an American citizen. At this same time, hos

ever, he states that be vas a constant vinitor at ODACID where he had vorked

In close cooperation with the ODENVY office and his address was on record

with ODACID so that he could be reached easily at any time.

3.

The efforts of the office of General Counsel and ODURGE representatives

1m this matter are greatly appreciated.

ND OF DISPATCH

!

!

CS FIE COPY 201-251689

FOR FUENTICE TO

DATE TYPED

25 Aug 61

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND TR MERER

UFCA 2215

MHEADQUARTERS FILE MINTEN

BEGRET

---

