# 104-10193-10170

## Page 1

104-10193-10170

FROM

DISPATCH

Chief,

Calef of BaBe, JANAVE

Chief of Station, Caracas

BECRET

ДВА:Т

J7ZIP/MNonimiento de Recuperación Revolucionaria

dion prano

for Inforustion

8148943

19-826-15

HYCA -8792

TO ENOVASTET FRI NOS

19-9

Tear

OCT 2 5 1951

1 4T

- (CHECE T ONE)

MABELO LOR INDELING

NO NO BING BEQUINO

LADINING CAN BE JUDGEO

BE QUALIFICO NO DESE DAILY

(CLAN 2) receatly ratured tron a trip to Miand. Pollordng blo

return he dlicussed with his Case Officer on 23 October the conclu

s1ons which he had drain about the present altuation in the Movialento

de Recuperacón Revolucionaria, (NIR) It 18 Doted that (CART-l'» BOR

18 a member of the MRR uho waa formerly chief of propaganda for that

Organizatlon in Mlaul. Although (CIARK-1) 1e coneidered by the Station

to be a responsible source, bie personal involvement in the MRR should

possibly be taken into account when reading the sttachment.

09

03

25 October 1961

Attachoent:

Portion of Contact Report

(1 copy)

Distribution:

2.- Headquarters, watt.

2 - JHAYS, W/ 856.

2 - Files, /att.

+5 469) 19-120-18

5/TV

SECRET

Drawre

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

October 25, 1962

Excorpt from Contact Report dated 25 October 1961:

1. (CLARK-2) was greatly concerned about the el tuation of the

Movimiento de Recuperacion Revalucionarta 10 Men.

liaison nan who represents the organization in its delaings with KUBARK,

Carlos Quillot, 18 extrenely arbitrary and Incapable and has alienated

most of the MRR membership la Miand.

One of the points which CIARX-2) O

mentloned to substantiate the antagonion which CUILLOT had aroused vás

the fact that Guillot had undergone peychiatric treatment two years ago.

(CIARK-1) Bald that he knew deflaitely that this see true.

believos be can do no wrong.

The MRR 10 not receiving any financial support from KUBARK,

according to MRR members who believe thie to be an error as they feel

that the MRR 10 still the most effective force within Cuba 1n libe anti-

CASTRO movement.

4. (CIARKIl) provided a I1st of names of sore of the persons bo had

left the

MRR, given up executive positions in the MRR or who bad turned

down positions because of Guillot. These annes are listai de tollows:

PITA, (In'i) - ForDer MRR Coordinator Ior the Floviuce of

Now a member of the Directorio Revolucionario de

Habana.

Estudlantes.

HERNANDEZ,, Carlos - One of the Cubana used by KUBARK 1n

the training of other Cubans for guerrilla activity. Still

a member of the MRR but does not participate in any of the

activities of the MRR 1n Kland.

ABREU, Ernestino - Still & member of toe MAR but resigned

his post as funda chairman.

GOMEZ, Danilo - Resigned from his position as & nember

of one of the MRR sub-committees.

COLADO, Joaguin - Former Secretary of Propaganda 1n Cuba.

Refused position as propaganda chief 1n Miazi.

SECRET

5 JAN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

The Jung Brothers - sorbed 10 propaganda in Cube but

refused positions in Miant.

SALAS, DE. ONCBI - NAR representative la the Concejo.

Fired dy Baro.

ANTALEZ MOre, Antonto - Fired from executive positio

8 assistant to Manuel Artine and then thrown out of the MRR

S

E

R

Kuros

---

## Page 4

14-00000

https://asc-app-01:7002/jfk/boxes/JFK64-28/coversheets

SECRET

DOCUMENT

Box Number:

JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10193-10171

CADRE Ref ID: C00562346

Pub Date:

10/24/1961

Pages:

2

C00562346

104-10193-10171

SECRET

86 of 105

1/12/2015 1:54 PM

---

## Page 5

14-00000

DAlE

TO

542

1 24001 61

• DIRECTOR

FROM & JMWAVE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

03

ACTIONA BELL 10 (BELL COPY. SLOTTED AT 1930- 24 OCT)

TRitO : DDP, COP, ADOP/A, WH 5; 06 6, S/Ç 3

ROUTING

OCT 24 22022 61

PRIORITY..

PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 8739

JMZIP/COMMO/NOTLOX

FOLLOWING PASSED TO NOTLOX:

DOS CINCO "OMAR RPT OMAR CHA MONTY RPT MONTY CMA GERMAN RPT

GERIAN Y RPT Y LAZARO RPI LAZARO CHA NOS REUNIMOS POR VARIAS HORAS

DISCUTINENDO DIFERENIES DUDAS O RPT O INTERPRETACIONES. IL PUESTO DE

FRANCISCO CONO COORDINADOR. NACIONAL FUE SUSTITUIDO DESPUES DE CAER

FRESO POR DIRECTO NOMBRAMIENTO DE ARTIME RPT ARTIME DIVIDIENDU DICHAS

RESPONSABILIDADES ENTRE PEDRO PASLO RPT PEDRO PABLO CONO COORDINADOR

NACIONAL CIVIL Y RPT Y UMAR RPI PEDRU PABLU ENTRO EMBAJADA.. OMAR

ENCARCELADO Y RPT Y DESPUES PARA EMBAJADA TAMBIEN. NECESADAD DE

REORGANIZAR MOVEMIENTO SIGNIFICABA QUE AMBUS SALIERAN EMBAJADA. PEDRO

PABLO RPT PEDRO PASLO NO QUISO SALIR EMBAJADA TRASPASANDO SU PARTE

CIVIL DE COORDINACION NACIONAL A RPT A OMAR TAMBIEN. ENTONCES OMAR

RPT OMAR YA CONO COORDINADOR NACIONAL GENERAL TENIA LOS PODERES REGLA-

MENTARIOS PARA REESTRUCTURAR DIRECCIUN NACIONAL. DESPUES OMAR RPT OMAR

TERMINAR ESA LABOR SALIO AFUERA CONMONTY RPT MONTY RESOLVER FUTURA

SITUACION GENERAL CONALIADOS YRPT Y REGRESAR A RPT A CUBA. MIENTRAS

TANTO LAZARO RPI LAZARO FUE NOMINADO PORQUE HACIA FALTA ENESE' NUNENTO

UNA CABEZA: ESTA DUALIDAD SE MANTENDRA HASTA QUE OMAR RPT OMAR E

RPT E LAZARO RPT LAZARU REGRESEN CUBA RPI CUBA Y SE DECIDA. MÜNTY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEO.

:==.

Copy No.

---

## Page 6

CLNSSIELED MESSAGE

SECRE

IN 11274

- PAGE -2

REGRESARA CUBA RPT CUSA PROXIMO VIAJE Y RPT Y EXPLICARA DETALLES COM-

PLETOS A RPT A DIRECCION NACIONAL. MONTY RPT MONTY TONAA POSICION

DE COORDINADOR MILITAR ALLA RPI ALLA SI SE ACEPTA. ENTRADA MIKE ROMEO

ROMEO RPT. NIKE ROMEO ROMEO DENTRO DEL CONSEJO DE MIRO CARDONA POR

GERMAN SERA EXPLICADU DEIALLADARENIE PUR MONTY. LAZARO CHA OMAR CMA

MONTY CMA GERMAN."

ENGLISH TRANSLATIONE LaD

a. are, 13ers Cater

Eglen, Conne.

ES "VE OMAR, MONTY, GERMAN AND LAZARO SAY DOG EOR

SEVERAL HOURS DISCUSSING VARIOUS DOUBTS OR INTERPRETATIONS.

FRAN

CISCO'S POST AS NATIONAL COORDINATOR WAS FILLED AFTER THE LATTER'S

3'an-t site insin.

CAPTURE BY DIRECT NUMINATIUN BY ARLINE WHICH DIVIDED THOSE RESPONSI

BILITIES BETWEEN PEDRO PABLO AS NATIONAL CIVIL COORDINATOR AND OMAR

AS NATIONAL MILITARY COORDINATOR. AFTER THE INVASION PEDRO PABLO

ENTERED THE EMBASSY. UNAR WENT IU JAIL AND AFTERWARDS ME ALSO WENT.

TO AN ENBASSY. THE NEED TO REORSANIZE THE MOVEMENT CALLED FOR BOTH

MEN TO LEAVE THE EMBASSY.

PEDRO PABLO DID NOT WANT TO LEAVE THE

EMBASSY SO THAT MIS DUTIES AS CIVIL COORDINATOR WERE PASSED TO OMAR

ALSO. THUS OMAR NOW BEING A NATIONAL GENERAL CUURDINATOR HAD THE.

STATUTORY FOWERS TO REORGAVIZE THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE. WHEN OMAR

HAD FINISHED THIS J03 HE LEFT CUSA WITH MONTY IN ORDER TO RESOLVE THE

FUTURE GENERAL SITUATIUN WITH ALLIES AND THEN RETURN TO CUBA. IN THE

MEANT IME LAZARO WAS NOMINATED BECAUSE A HEAD. WAS MISSING AT THAT TIME.

THIS DUALITY WILL PREVAIL UNTIL OMAR AND LAZARO RETURN TU CUBA AND A

DECISION IS MADE. MONTY WILL RETURN TU CUBA ON THE NEXT TRIP AND

WILL EXPLAIN THE FULL DETAILS TO THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE. MONTY VILL

ASSUME THE POSITION OF MILITARY CÜURDINATUR OVER THERE IF HE IS

ACCEPTED, GERMAN'S ENTERING THE MÃR INTO MIRO CARDUNA'S COUNCIL WILL

BE EXPLAINED 3Y MONTY IN DETAIL. LAZARO, OMAR, MUNIY, SERMAN. "

END OF MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

