# 104-10059-10026

## Page 1

104-10059-10026

J-s, SCLASSIFIED

KNAL

ONLY

ROJING AND RECORD

CONF..

SHEET

ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

C/CCS

Indications of the Scope and Possible Damage

0f

New Allegations by Ramparts Magazine

EXTENSION

нO..

9328

DATE

GH 56 HQS

5071

25. November 1968

TO: (Officer designation, mom number, and

building)

: DATE

OFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OMMENTS: (Number each comment to show from mo

o whom.. Draw a line, across column after euch commant.

1.

C/CIOP/DO

•2 B 23 HQS

ATTENTION:

Mr. Richard Ober

2.

BY

HAND

3. Pal

63 - 1907

тех

RETURN TO CIA

Background: Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

SENSITIVE

SECRET

7.

10.k

14.

15.

FORM

: 3-62

₴:

610"SRNOS NOSE SECRET

EJ: CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2% NO:

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

THROUGH:

Assistant Deputy Director for Plans

SUBTSCT:

Indications of the Scope and Possible

Damage of New Allegations by Pauparts

Magazine

1. This memorandun is furnished for information only.

2.

Early in April 1968 the Cifice of the General Coun

sel made available to Central Cover Staff (CCS) & COpy of a

letter and an attached liat of organizations sent to tbe

Internal Revenue Service (IRS) by Hr. Jon Frappier of Ra

Darts Magazine•

The lettes, dated 5 April 1968, had been

furnished OGC

through INs liaison channels.

The letter appenued

a list of 145 tax exempt organizations and

indicated tbat all

were suspected of having bees funded by or having cooperated

with CIA.

3.

The letter indicated that the listed organizations

were only a part of the organizations being scrutinized by

Ramparts and that other available sources of Information on

these and other suspect organizations had already been examined.

The other sources of infomation vere stated as including the

Ilterature of the organizations and interviews with their staft

members; records avallable in the Attorney General's offices

Massachusetts, and New York; data avallable at

the Rational Lagorcation Bureau In New York, Group Research,

Inc., In Washington, D.C., and the Foundation Library Centers

In New York and Washington; and the 990-A returns available at

the district offices of the IRS. The letter requested 990A

03979

---

## Page 3

14-00000

returns for specialed years and in moat cases the form 1023

Application for Tax Exempt Status.

Ramparts asked the IRS

to make tbese naterlals avallable for inspection at a mutu

ally convenient time.

1. A revier of available CIA dnta on the listed organi

rations has shown that 89 of then were at one time or another

sonehow associated with CIA. Chly two of these:

are of current operational interest. These two activities

and 15 organizations fornerly of interest to CIA vero men

toned in the American press during MHDOWEL 0 Fortytro

otber listed organizations which rere in fict associated

I with CIA vere not exposed during (HHDOYEL.Ul we have found no

evidence that 55 organizations onthe l13t vero ever directly

or indirectly associated with CIA. (Because two of the names

on the list are successive names for the sane organization,

the actual total number of organizations listed is 144 rather

than 145.)

Three addittonal project organizations, not

included in tbe Raparts Ilst, nay be vulnerablo because

they

were covertly junded by hitherto unexposed foundation

funding instruments included in the list. Only one of these,

1s of cur

rent operational interest.

The CA Stall was furnished a copy of the Ramparts

letter and list and has checked out the organtzations of

possible previous CA Stail interest. All organizations not

readily identlilable with known project organizations or as

cos funding instrumenta have been traced with RID, with CS

area divisiona that night logically have had an interest in

them and agalust CCS Registry files. Through arrangements

with the IRS, representatives of CCS and OCC also exanined

available IRS data (990-A'y and Forms 1023) on the listed

organizations.

This tas done before the IRS documents vero

made avallable to Ramparts, in order to be sure that restilete

990-A, Part I data would not be furnished to Ramparts and to

try to establish the reasons for homparts' interest in the

organizations.

Our current findings are the results of these

various file rovlews.

6.

Attached hereto are annexes listing and discussing

the several categories of organizations on the Ramparts list.

Annex A deals with the two organizations on the list whick

are still of active operational Interest. Both received

---

## Page 4

14-00000

MAUSERVA

DECRET

• 01

press mention during Wrows

Annex B lists and discusses

under several sub categories the 42 organizations with which

the agency has had sone direct or indirect operational ties

In the past which vere not cited in the pross duringlu 01

DONEL.

Annex C lists the 45 organizations included in the

April 1968 Iist which had former Agency operational ties

which were subject to press allegations during MHDONEL.UI Annex

D lists and briefly discusses the 55 organizations included

1n the Ramparts list that had no known operational connection

with CIA.

Annex & Iists and discusses three hitherto uner

posed operational activities that are not lncluded in the

AprIL 1500 Ranparts Ilet but which are vulnerable because.

they were covertly funded by hitberto unexposed funding Instru-

mente included In the Ramparts list... Annex F shows a copy of

7.

The 42 former project organizations listed and des

cribed

at Annex. B which have

not previously been charged with

CIA assoclation in American press comment fall into five

general

categories:

2 €

Foundations and other organizations used as

witting funding conduits for covert subsidies to pro

jeet organizations and other operational sctivities.

Sixteen organizations fall into this category. Eleven

of then are aultipurpose lesitinate foundatione. walch

vere rocuited by CCS.

Four were created or recruited

for exclusive use in funding one project each and one

was used for a one tine travel grant

b. M1tting logitimate foundationg and organiza

tions used exclusively to provide junding and status

cover for singleton agents.

sis organizations were

used in this way and provided cover for seven agents

1n various parts of the world.: Some of these organi-

zations also provided one time support for unwitting

Individuals of operational interest.

Proprietary or subaldy project organisations.

There are six of these: Projecta CAMANTILLA! WUHUSTLER U

FOCLPROOF, ETNAMABLE, SGPANFISH, and ABSTRIKER)

d. Three organizations with which there nere

witting operational contacts to obtain information

and leads but which were not actively lnvolved opera

tlonally.

9 BR

---

## Page 5

14-00000

23251905ti

Bleven unwitting organizations which received

grants from project organizations for operational or

cover reasons or which cooperated with project organi

rations.

8.

He cannot say with complete nasurance that all 55

of the apparently ianocent organizationg on the Ramparts

list in fact never had any Agency ties.

Our researches have

shown that RID indices are often Incomplete.

We have found

oporationni use data in CCS files on organizations with no

record in RID.

The same is true in other cases where infor

mation was available in CA Staff or area division flles on

organizations which drew a blant in RID. It seens likely,

however, that any undetected operational interest in the

organizations was in the period of the early 1950's and of a

marginal nature.

9.

In reviewing avallable information on the listed

organizations ve attempted to deternine whether there was &

logical external basis for Ramparts' interest in the organt-

zations or whether sone form of Internal Agency leak might

be involved. Our reviews and analysis show falrly conclu

sively that Ramparts has been proceeding on the basis of

overtly available information, supplemented by interviews

with project personnel:

#. All but three of the 42 terminated but hither

to unexposed project organizations and 24 of the 55 or

gantrations which actually had no Agency ties are some

how related to project organizations or funding instru

ments previously exposed. Some of the organizations

made legitimate or covert grants to previously exposed

organizations, others received covert or legitimate

grants frow previously exposed funding instruments or

from innocent foundations that had made legitimate

grants to exposed organi ations, and still othere had

officers who were associated with exposed CIA organt

zations.

Thirty one innocent organizations on the

Ranarts list and three of the hitherto unexposed

organizations of former interest to the Agency have .

no such known ties to exposed Agency organizations.

In most of these cases, however, the names of the

organizations are similar to those of exposed organ

izations or are of a nature that makes them suspect.

633177

---

## Page 6

14-00000

STEES TINE

Jin sle

SECRET

19.

It seems likely that Ramparts' interest in a un

ber of the 42 unexposed project organizations is based on

factors unrelated to the actual CIA dealinga with then

11. The Headquarters elements that are or were responsi

ble for the projects and activities that could be implicated

by new Ramparts sIlegationa have been notified of the fore

going findings. No further action is required at this time.

03

Cher, Centrat cover Staff

Attachnents

(Annexes)

Cc:

C/CA

C/CI

XC/CIOP/DO

C/FI/OPS

03

DDP/OPSER/CCS/PRG/

(5071/9328)

MASTE

ZIBR

---

## Page 7

14-00000

8.991

E:1.

28.

D.

Three Orzanizations with Which There Have Been Some

11tting Contacts

29.

30.

International Rescue Connittee, Inc. (IRC) - Manhattan,

Zork (99)

Under Project QKGAUNT, $2,500 was furnished IRC In

1950 - 1951 to obtals biographic data on defectors.

DecenDer 190s, JAC Chairman LEo Cherne Direred cover and

the offer,

indicating there already were useful contacts.

INC received legitinate grants from J. Frederick Brown

Foundation (34) and 3. N. Kaplan Fund (101).

31.

---

## Page 8

14-00000

at o Malia

22. NOW Ta.

MEMORANDU FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

THROUGH:

SUBJECT:

Assistant Deputy Director for Plen

Indleations of the Scope and Possible

Damage of New Allegations by Ramparte

Magagine

1. This memorandum is furnished for Information only.

Early in April 1968 the Office of the General Coun

sel made available to Central Cover Staff (CCS) = copy of «

letter and an attached liat of organtations sent to tbe

Internal Revenue Service (IRS) by Mr. Jon Frappler of En

parta Magazine.

The letter, dated 5 April 1968, had been

furnished OCC through IRS 1181gon Channels.

The letter appended

a Ilst of 145 tar exempt organtaations and indicated that all

were suspected of having been funded by or having cooperated

with cha.

3 The letter Indicated that the listed organtation

were only a part of the organitions being scrutinied by

Ramparts and that other avilable sources of Inforation on

These and other suspect organiastions had already been examined.

The other sources of inforation vore stated as Ineluding the

Iterature of the organi tions and Interviews uith their staff

members; recorde available In the Attorney General's offices

1 1141001.

Mnssachusetts, and New Tork; data vailable at

the Intional Information Bureau in dew York, Group Beseareh

Inc-, in lashington,

In New York and Washington; and the 990A returne available at

the distriet offices of the IRS. The letter requested 990 A

.. F

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SENSITIVE

SECRET

returns for specified years and in most cases the Form 1023

Application for Tax Exempt Status. Ramparts asked the IRs

to make these materials available for Inspection at a mutu

ally convenient time.

1. A review of available CIA data on the listed organi

rations has shown that 89 of them vere at one time or another

somehow associated with CIA. Only two of these

QRTRON) and..

19,29,01,24

ORSTUMPY

are of current operational Interent. These two sotivities

and 15 organtations formerly of Interest to CIA vere men.

tioned in the american pres during hoon. forty two

other lated organtantions which vero in fact associated

/ with CIA were not exposed during Munoret liWe have found no

evidence that so organiations on te liat vere ever directly

or Indirectly annociated uith CIA. (Beonuse two of the mamen

on the lint are succensive mmes for the same organtention,

the setunl total number of organisations Ilated 1e 141 rather

than 155. Three additional project organtentions, not

Ineluded In the Rauparts llet, may be vulnerable because

they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed foundation

fundine Instruments Included to the ltst..

Only one of these,

TPGLARE) tO OF CU

reat operational interest. 29,01,24

5. The CA Staff was furnished a copy of the Ramparts

letter and list and has checked out the organizations of

possible previous CA Staff Interest. All organisations not

rendily Identifiable with known projoct organizations or au

CCs funding Instrumenta have been traced with RID, with Ca

uren divisions that might logleally have had an Interest In

then and "galunt Ces Regiotry files. Through urrangemente

with the IRS, reprementativen of CCB and OCC also ermined

mvailable IBS esta (000 ' and Jorms 1023) on the lated

organizations.

This ve done before the IRS documente were

made avalible to lamourte, in order to be sure that restrieted

990-A, Part I data vould not be furnished to Ramparte and to

try to establich the roamona for Ramperta! Interest in the

organlations: Our current findings are the results of theme

various ille reviewe

6 Attached hereto are annexes Iloting and discusing

the several categories of orenientions on the lamparts 1et.

Anner A deals with the two organtention on the Tiet Fileh

are still of nctive operational interest. Both received

SENSTUNE

MIBR

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CONEITIVE

172545

01

prens mention during MHDOvEL.

Annes B lists and discusses

under several sub categories the 42 organizations with which

the Ageney has had some direct or indirect operational ties

in the past which wore not cited in the press duringi

DOWEL,

Anner C Ilats the 45 organisations Included In the

April 1968 list which had former Ageney operational ties

which were subjeet to press allegations during MHDOWEL,. Ul Annex

D 11sta and briefly discusses the 55 organdantions Included

mith CIT are list shot bad no kiown operatteral comection

Anner E lists and diseusses three hitherto uner

posed operational actlultles that are not Included in the

Aprll 1948 Rumparts Ilst but which are vulnerable because

they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed funding Instru

ments included In the lamparte liat. Annex I shows a copy of

the fUlL ApIII IBOB RApArtE lint.

l The 12 forer project orgntations liated and des

cribed at Anner B wiich have not previously been charged vita

CIA prociation In Anerlean pres comment tall Into 11ve

general categories:

a. Foundations and other organizations used as

witting funding conduite for covert subsidies to pro

Jeet organiestions and other operatioml setivities.

Sixteen organtrations Inll Into this category. Sleven

of then are multipurpose legitimte foundations. which

vere reculted by ces.

Four were crented or recruited

for exclusive use in funding one project each and one

was ed for s one tine travel grant.

witting logitimate foundation and orgai

tion ed exclunively to provide fundlag and status

cover for singleton «gonto.

six oreninations vere

uned In thie way and provided cover for seven agent.

In prlous parts of the vorld, some of these organi

nations almo provided one time support for unwitting

Individule of operational Interest.

proprietary of subaldy project.

orcentrations.

d. Three organizations with which there were

wittins operational contacte to obtain inforation

and leads but whien were not actively involved opera

tionally.

-at dot

139K. 105

an in a pied

9IBR

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SERBITIVE

SACHET

seven unwitting organisations which received

grants fron project organizations for operational or

cover rensons or which cooperated ith projeet organi

sations.

We cannot my with complete assurance that all 55

01 the apparently Innocent organtrations on the Ramparta

Ilet In fact never had any Agency thes.

Our researches have

shown that RID Indices are often Incomplete.

We have found

operational use data In CCS 11les on organisations "ith no

record in RID.

The same la true in otber cases where infor

mation as svailable in CA Staff or area Alvialon files on

organtzations which drew a blank In RID. It seens Ilkely,

however, that any undetected operatloul interest In the

organiastion was in the period of the early 1950's and of a

marginal nature.

In reviewing amllable Information on the llated

orgarition ve attenpted to deterine nether there vas a

logical external basis for Ramparts' Interest In the organi-

zations or whether some forn of Internal Agency leak might

be involved. Our reviews and analysis show fairly conclu

Elvely that Ramparts has been proceeding on the busie of

overtly available information, supplemented by interviewe

"1th project personnel:

# All but three of the 12 terminated but hither

to nexposed project orgniestions and 21 of the 55 or

anations which netially hnd no Agency tles are some

how related to project organtation or funding netr

ments previously expored. Some of the orcentations

made legitimate or covert crnts to previouly exposed

organtations, othere received covert or legitimate

cant fron previously expored lundia, Instruente or

Irom Innocent foundations that had made legitiante

grants to exposed organtation, and still others had

officer who vore nociated with expored CIA organ

b. Thirty one Innocent organtrations on the

Ramparte liat and three of the hitherto unerposed

organtations of forer laterest to the Agoney have

no such known ties to exposed Agency organisations.

In mont of there enses, however, the names of the

organinations are sinilar to thore of exposed

organ

lantions or are of a nature that makes them suspect.

272180A8U

THIS

---

## Page 12

14-00000

5.070

SECRET

It seems likely that Ramparts' Interest 1n a n

ber of the 42 unexponed project organiration is based on

Inctors unrelated to the netual CIA dealings with them.

11. The Headqurters elements that are or vere responsi

ble for the projects and netluities that could be implloated

by new Ramparts allegation have been notifled of the fore

coing findings.

No further action In required at this time.

Chies, Central Cover Staff

Attachmente

(Annexen)

ec: C/CA

C/CI

XC/CIOP/DO

C/FI/OPS

DDP/OPSER/CCS/PRG/

03

311

SENSITIVE

SURET

(5071/9328)

ZIBR

---

## Page 13

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following liated

or named organizations in Annexes A through E are the

item numbers or organization included in the 5 April

1968 Ramparts list (Annex I).

. i ici

---

## Page 14

14-00000

'stainina dia di in is dia

1.

24,06

2.

29,29

ANNEX A

ORGANIZATIONS ON 5 APRIL 1968 RAMPARTS LIST

THAT ARE OF CURRENT OPERATIONAL INTEREST

79

Manhattan,

New York

J0%

24,01,06

]Executive

continues as

Director and unes this relationship as

status cover for operation travele in

Although covert funding of|

has been suspended,

contacts may be implicity attributed toL

ana ted t to onerationad

received press publioity during lanDorsy.

06.

was mined as a CIA agent in the Braden Saturday Eventur

Post article.

29

Manhattan,

New

Fork

00

Under Katenbach guidelines

and Di decisions,

was to be re-entabliahed abroad 29

ne a condition for continuntion of the project. Varlous

possibilitles 1n Europe have been explored and vetoed.

Stenn are currently being taken to relocate the netivity

received limited press mention during MuDOwEl and

only in the context of 1tu

Torigtns29

and its forer funding by the l

(terainated WIll Project DORIB) (88).

I1= vulnerable becaue of its former funding by

as well 29,79

as b thel

not on the 5 April29

1968 liet but of know interest to

Ramparte) and by the

Foundatione (exposed

during /MIDOWEL).

01

Z7/SR

---

## Page 15

14-00000

1.

2.

3.

ORRKITIVE

SECLET

ANNEX

FORTY TO PREVIOUSLY UNEXPOSED ORGANIZATIONS

WITH FORMER CIA OPERATIONAL TIES

A.

Sixteen Witting Conduste Used for Attributed Covert

Subsidy Funding

08

79

New Yor

crecrusted legitinto soundation 2P001: 31/680

ned n 190 for a covert met to the merpe

and in 1065 for a covert erant

to the

exposed

1s the

tanily foundation of|

Iwas

president of the

Foundation, Ine. - Manhattan, New York (41)

129

exposed project

orgentations:

TPFOUMART) , 29,01

(KOPERA) •

DOALBI) [

9RE1 LD 29,29, 29,01,01,01

(WSCHILD)

TPPAPAT), and

(ORTRON. 1, 24,01,01, 01

3-29,29,0101,01

was also uned for 1082 - 1905 covert mate to the

hitherto unexponed project ortantzation

7911

CCS-recruited legitsaate foundation (LPCOR8KY/32)). 29

Uned 196 - 4961 for covert mants to exposed

(QREEND/VOALIBI) and

tich

ZIBR

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SENSITIVE

SECRET

29

Foundation - Manhattan, New York

ccs-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSHI/84)).

Uned In 1965 for covert grants to the eposed

and the unexposed

(ETNAMABLE). 21,01

(TPTONIC)

5.

Foundation

10

so recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/43)

21, 0, 019ed 1981 - 1965 for covert grants to the exposed AlI

TOLUTONLIT

(OTPILLAR).

Name me listed as & contributor in ar

29

6.

(1) publicity brochure.

Foundation - Manhattas, New York

co recru ted legitante foundation LFCORSET/42).

ned 1962 - 130l for covert mant to exposed

29,0|U| (TOFLUENT /ORPLUENT) and

(QREEND/VOALIBI) .

bursed by

exposed

7.

FoundatIOn,

110 :

01

CoS-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORBET/6). Of

epears as contributor

but thle me the

Is reimburned

ments exposed by

_In 1064.

rodetten,

- Innhattan, New York

CCP-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/491).

210| (TOFLUENT/ORFLUENT). and

• contributor fal

brochure.

CCs Intre-

29,10

CCs-recruited legitimate foundation (LPCORSST/ 54).

med sect - 1006 for covert rant to the exposed

(LICORSET / 75 JUTUBA/TUEXTEND) *

1 (OKFEARFULD , I

(QRBIND/VOALIBI),

(JMPOPLAR/10) ,

(QRSENSE/KNOCHROID) , !

(ARTRON),

29,24,29,24291,01,01,

0 US SENSITIVE

SECRET

29

42/BR

---

## Page 17

14-00000

MUSTNE

SECRET

01

29,01

(TPFOUMART), andL

(KOPERA), and the unexposed

100.

(6I) (ASHIRROR/WUHUSTLER.

79

10.

29,10:

CCs-recruited legitimate foundation [LPCORSET/491.

792900Ded 1962 - 1966 for

covert grants to the exposed

YOFLUNT ORELUENT.

(ORBEND/DOAL IBI), L

290|pV(OKTEARFUL) andl

(QKOPA) and to the unexposed.

_(HIKCOTTON) • 29,01

129

129,10

CCS- ecruited legitimate foundation

IPCORSET /2917. 29

Uned 1961 - 1966 for covert grants to

2921W TOTLUENT/ORPLUENT)

(JETERVENT),

(ORBEND.

LOALLED A

(OTLAMPREY) and

INg/220 IN and to the unerposed

(HTNAMABLE)

TACON 292929,01 0161

(ROCCUR/ PASHE A) •

79,29,01,01

12.

Inc. - Monhattan, New York

(CS-recrulted legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/35) used

1962 - 1966

exclualvely for covert grants to

(WSFLUFTER) | Ita ties to

"ere presumably learned fron

10

state recorde.

29

13.

Ine. - Manhattan,

NEW LOPE

CCS-recrulted legitimate foundation (LPCORSET/5))

used once in 1958 for a covert grant to

24 The (

made legitinte grants tol

(JBPERYENT) 29,01

(TPGLARE). 24,0|

→ 21,29,24

08

14.

- Manhattan, few fork

Iegltimate foundation recruited by forer 10 Divistor

39uao a funding condult sod lund ralling orgintation for

_(TRONIC) and|

(DIPILIAR), both mentloned during

Used

109 Goneral V. Bodell Snith

(torer

DCI)

SENSITIVE

SECRET

36/5R

---

## Page 18

14-00000

12:27

-4-

79

15.

16.

Inc. -

Manhattan, New York

Proprietary funding condult

covert funding of the exposed

established IPOUART 29Ul

• Washington, D.C.

108

Legitinate organiantion recruited by CCS for one-time

witting use 1n

1957 to handle the U.B. travel arrangements

for a visiting

delegation under an Jprojoct.24

travel was ostensibly sponored by a law firm,

which reimbursed the

29

to mucort &

ARCONITAR, 08,10,01

0629

06,29

received legitimate grants fron the

board members.

29

B.

24

79

17°

Ine.

Manhattan, Jew York

10.79

08

Jwas uned in the early 1950°s

13-14b5

an a source of leade.

0A: C7

11 ranged byll

32 Throum arrangemente

32-1th

cover was provided byl

Lor C71

contract agent

1958 - 062

1960 under Project OTGT..

mate (unreimbursed)

received a leglti-01, 06

salary supplemented by black bag.

He vas terminated 1a 1960.29

277

3UBR

---

## Page 19

14-00000

INNE

KONGA

18°

19.

06,29

1f1eld representative

101n

was reportedly a witting U.S. Arny Intel

ligence source.

Inc.

• Manhattan,

New York L 08

Provided cover in

10

US agent

spotting and assessing

was reimbursed by attorneyl

ccs made

the arrangements.

resigned from CIA in 1958 to Join thel

nately.

29

1954 - 1903 for sta

under Project /ÖNTANGE120r 0

Balary C4,05

6.24

legiti

29

president of

was actively

associated with 1/5t Polect Lco 14.01.

He was also an

unwitting comultant to

(TPGLARK)] and collaborated 24,01

in a project to bring

war veterans to the U.S.

• Washing

TON, D. 6. 1408

29

Provided status cover (funding was byl

a coll

tract employee.

and doll

Ja unshaktos no November - December

DoC. April - November

subsequently served "taL

(TPCLARE) 29,01

10 1a

1957 - 1939, and with

(ZETINDSR) In New 2

York,

1989 - 1967. he was termianted at the end of 108p"/

the outersible sponsor of travel by

(T) from Clllorita to D.C. for the

annunl meeting. Funding was via other

Judy 1951

charrels.

29

29

was ued In October 1985 an the point of contmet'

In D.C. for an Individul whome travel to the U.s. we

sponsored byl

SO LAR.

The Executive Director of APSA has lone been|

_who hends the exposed

ITE PEDI

Trecesved a leritinte 1966 grant from 29

WNG93

SECRET

35/BR

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SLANSA

CRET

- 6

29

20.

- Manbattan,

New YOrk

Used on a negotiated basie in 1956 to provide an os-

tensible grant to

for residence 1n

Actual

payments were by black-bag.

79

ede vertiate crant to

1-24

29

08

21.

22°

- Washingtos, D.C.

Provided CCinegotiated cover for

101/

from the

1958 - 1982. Run ementine & anger 1299*

which was reimbured by the

exposed

In ture reimbursed by the l

29

'exposed!!

06

remained 1n

_1981 - 1903 under thei0

cover of the subsecuent Y exposedl

1(84) and the vul. 29

nerable

(N. 36) •

\Dwas In

and the 1. 1963 - 1067 under other|

He was denounced as Cla by the

pressi

In 1964.

He converted to a stall employee under nominal

Arny clvillan cover In June 1967 for leadqurters duty.

provided cover 1n

• 1960 - 1963, for

Army employee under ACSI Project (CRAZY- O

BONES. 4

relmbursed by CCS

](N34).

Manbattan, Now York (sPcORs/25)

Provided cover for

J (WSCHILD)] officint, 10L

Tandi

1965 under Profeet (REPITON

Kamate

03

wore reimbursed by the ltDowk exposed!

• forer 11

1063

I received two

I whicht9

-29

raaigned from the Ageney in 1963.

16 Ilsted as « cooperating group fa an

[Kun publlefty brochure.

29,01

0S

TIVE

SACANT

43/SR

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SENSITNE

6797

81x Project Organtation

23.

79

Ine.

• Manhattan,

New York L J0Y

antrumentality of Project ARMANTILLA/CAMANTILLA niC

rovided resettlememt support of

29,18

06

The l

2401 thel

by the exposed

was also an officer

(138) and

I (ABSTRIKER).

funded

29ª

- Manhattan, New

York

Former name of

(see above.)

79

29

08

InC.

24.

(IRCT) -

29

01

0b

Manhattan, New Yors

-108

79.01

Succensor orcanization to

(AEPROCESS)I which was established in

1934 nt the initiative ofl

head of the 06

bre nization

lollowing the

and 1a subel-z

dined under SE/CA Project AEGIDDOIDI

annaged 1ts2

name tol

Il The two organsation

la year.

published a magarine, 29

which we diatributed in the

U.s. and the

to generate opponition to Soviet actu

of violence.

In modition tol

06,29

06

officere Ineludedl

(who was a)go annocinted ith

K12) 29

Project CAMANTILLI and the!

(T) Somer orrident o l

1138>29

19

Pro

06

7(T), former OCC ataffer and currently the backstop

TOr

an entity under DO Project [UPSYCHE.

29

01

41/BR

79,01

---

## Page 22

14-00000

25.

SENSITIVE

SECRET

-8-

29

08

Inc. - Manhattan, New York

Established under $B Projeet [ApurploR) and tranterred

around 1962 to DO as Project WUHUSTLEH, UI CIA support

terminated ie 1867-

Headed fron ite Inception by

706

channel for the

1t was used unt11 1961 as a funding

(AEGIDEON). as well as a pro

paganda outlet.

24,01

Inc. man covertly funded by the

The latter two were exposed during

79.10

79,24,29

26.

This la probably a new nomo for thel

10

which weed lie me To Time ba

" Pron the Fubnequently

provided

190s - 10tx. to thell

2

Junder 29

EVOLS PreJect FOOLPROOL for

In-depth opinion studies ol

carried out by

in solected countries throughout the world.

vorsed, mking there organintion mutually witting.

29110

27.

ID/BAT proprietary Project ETNAMABLS.

Ramparte has

recently nought to interview none of the project priaei

29 pale.

Jhas pectal sensitivity because of its presti

geous aid well connected principal. It uns covertly

funded throurh the

1,79,29,29

Its own 1966 990-A VIII mhou erante

Worl

to

and

29,24,29,29

SENSITIVE

31/BR

---

## Page 23

14-00000

THE

28.

79

Inc.

Washlogton, D.C. L 108

Also know publicly as Projectl

this organtation

1e related to the former FI/OPS Project (SGPANFISH. 0| I€

was mentioned during MaDorEllin the context of a legit- 01

mate grant by the exposed L

covertly funded by the exposed

Tand/

Ja 2929

It also received Textimate exanta from the

C

29

D.

Three oreaniestion with hich There Have Been some

Witting Contaote

29

29.

- Na ne

battan,

New York,

06

108

bad contact in 1950 with

on posalble cover use

29011

2' latlonship wIthi

In 1956, 00/Contaote reported a continutag re

for exchange of Information.

There

73

apparently we some covert exploitation until Book Dis

patch No.

at 1 October 1965 prohibited further une.

06,

was contacted in 1952 on use of a separate

_facility for agent cover.

30.

CT

International Rescue Comittee, Ine. (IC) - Munhattan,

New Tori: (93)

Under Project AGAUNT, 82,500 was furnished IRC In

1950 - 1081 to obtain biographic enta on defector. In

December 1063, IIC Chalran Leo Cherne offered cover and

It me of lic to annons brom, Dore c/s deelined

the offer, Indienting there already vere uneful contacte.

INC received lopitimate granta from J. Frederick Brown

Foundation (34) and J. M. Kaplan Fund (101).

31.

(IF) - Manhattan, New Tork

08

Under

Project (BGBERLED,

three officers of the

29

were cleared and apparently contacted by staff agent

25/BR

---

## Page 24

14-00000

106,09

SENSITIVE

ET

- 10-

- rose tos planed cover us of

Or In placing a

cover. 08

The propounl aborted when the agent prospect resigned

1n 1956•

32.

33.

34.

85.

Eleven Unwitting Organtzations Which vere Funded by

or Collaboratod with Projeet Organizationg

29

TOPE

= Manhattan, New

29

Received a cover grant from

Ul (Project @KOPERAS 1n 1906.

79

Paterson, New Jersey

- J08

May have received funde fronl

Vice Chairman of

board.

(AID) -

16

L(SGGUESSER).

- Manhattan,

New York IL

J08

01 (SCUE 151 ded d controlled through PYSA

29,01

Beceived cover

crants fron

Ilnted aa « cooperating croup in

brochure.

29

New 708k L 108 29,01

TORREND Lnt11 1965.

(TPTONIC) and operated by

01

21,01

• Manhattan,

SENSITIVE

SEOLST

26/BR

---

## Page 25

14-00000

37.

38.

39.

40.

06,0b

41.

12.

-11-

08:

79

- Washington, D.C.

Supported byl

24,01

(Project IPTONIC) fOr filteen years.

Inc. - Manhattan, New York

2901

Supported successively by

(TPTONIC) andE

129

(QRBEND)/ for many yeara.

79

Inc. -

Manhattan, New York

08

24,01

(TPTONIC)) and

my have received

Washington, D.C.

Cooperated with the

08

29

/headed by

ProJect DEFERVENT)V in what proved an abortlve effort

under a joint CA-St project to sponsor the U.S. visit of

Froup of prominentl

received

from the

for 1te share.

The funds were redirected to s

fenlblity survey on establishing an

08,29

New

TOPE

_ Inc.

• Manhattan,

08

08

Under Project (TUSPUN a!|

crant mas made to

Mn 1958 by the

exponed

to 29

defray the conte of a trip to

111,06

Prenident of

J Allegedly, 29

neitheri

ship.

>a vas avare of CIA sponsori

06

79,10

29

Before

December 1960,

(TOFLUENT).

21,01

operated as

• proSra

122022

2h00.22

36/BR

---

## Page 26

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following lluted

or naned organisations In Annexes A through E are the

1tem numbers of organizationa included in the 5 Apral

1968 Ramparte 11at (Annex I) .

---

## Page 27

14-00000

SENSITIVE

SECRET

ANNEX C

FORTY-FIVE TERMINATED COVERT FUNDING CONDUITS AND PROJECT

ORGANIZATIONS ON 3 AprIl 1968 RAMPARTS LIST THAT WERE

NANED IN PRESE DURING MADOWELJO

A.

Eighteen CCS Multipurpose Funding Condults

(Legitimate and Proprletary)

29.101.10

v1.

2.

3.

(LPCORSET /11)

Manhattan, New York

29,10,01

] (LIPSIPHON/ 10],

(LPCORSEI/18) |

,0l

cos proprietary)|

08

LAPCORSET/20)

TITe NO. CB-1870) - 1082910

proprietary.j08

York (LPCORSET/26) UT

129,10,01.

79,10

1(ccs

• 7.

v8.

v8.

v10.

2911

Manhattan, New

741001

](IPCORSET /8)] (58)

2a 191

](LPSIPHON/7], CCS

proprietaRy J08 79.10.01

(LPCORSET/515] (71)

SENSEAL

SECRET

17/6R

---

## Page 28

14-00000

vil.

vIle

13.

v1t.

v15.

~ 16.

V1T.

~18.

V19.

v.20.

79.10.01

7910

cos proprietary I JU

(LPCORSET/1)

_01

79

—101

I(LPCORSET/3)

(LPFUNNEL/2,

? - Manhattan, New York

2910,01

(LPCORSET/25)

- Manhettan, Nev

29,10,01

(I PCORBIT/32)

124,10,01

14,10,01

(LPCORSET/22)

2 te en

B.

Two CA, Project Orfanizations

Mumbattan,

New YOrKL JOY.

Bathllahad under Dentent leprenteland taken oser by

Project QRBEND) FY 106 - 1965. Phaned out betore

WE tool over

under project VOALIBI, 29,01

• D.

• Manhattan, New FOrk

undod undor (role) sor many yeara, and thereastor

29

Eleven CA

C.

Project Organtantion

SITIVE

SECRET

221BR

---

## Page 29

14-00000

21.

22.

123.

124.

~25.

26.

27.

28.

v 29.

SECRE I

29

New fork

- Manhattan,

39

n unwittine anerican artisate of the expose

Project OKOPERA * 0 It raise

legitimate funds for|

29

10

Inc.

Proprietary funding condult for

under Project QuIlArruy.

Hanhattan, New

YorkT

→08

Action organization under Project (POURT)

- Manhattan, New

08

08,01

Action organization for

under Project JBFERVANT!

Funding conduit for

Project @KOPERA. UI

• Manhattan, New fork

and other activities under

29

dated 20 December 1939 - Hanhattan Jew YOrk

Tunding condult under Project @KOPERA (LPCORSET / 68)

dated 29 December 1958 - Manhattan, New York

u/d

708

Funding condult under Project OXOPERA (LPCORSET/68)) O1

<1

7901

Funding condult for

21

Inc.

I New TO

UTIVE

29/8R

---

## Page 30

14-00000

01

Roos actlon organization under Project [DTRACCOON.

- Manhattan, New York

Ol Funding condult used for lI

(83) under Project DT-

Ite exposure

lin August U6

1964 Implicated eight|

9,24,01

131.

Washington, D.C. Lo

U.S. A1I1liate 081

29

PRET

under Project DTLAM 01

and

N 32.

33.

14.

Three CA

08

Organizationg

29

• Manhattan, New York

Roof organizatIon under Project (HBEPITONE /TRPAPHEAT] for

combatting

- Manhattan, New fork

Viting recipient of TYSA tund under project BIPITOlde/

EBIRHAUST!

• Ine. • Manhattan, Hew Yorks

Unwitting rigipient of cover crants, 1855 - 1956, by

Ma Project 1P101 3000318. 011e my have been

21 mupported by

colved legitimate grante

(KPCORSET/20)

29,01

24

I.

TIO CAL

Project Organizations

Ruinitie

24/BR

---

## Page 31

14-000.00

N'35.

36.

38.

39.

40.

*1.

0229,10

operation

Funding conduit for international

under Project ORSENSE/KHOCHROID, O

Ramparta April 1968 llating Incorrectly states

729

was formerly

10

actually replaced

- Manhattan, New York

29

708

Projects YOMAIDEN. ORSHER,

seen grant in me pretent ate o, o, 0, 01

to be of current interent to lamperte.

r.

Eight Ares Division Profect Organizations

79

Washington, D.C.

Action organtastion under

Project YOFLUENT. U| Trang-

ferred to CA Staif (at that tino IO DivIsion) La 1961 a.

project quit ane terainated mortly thereaiter.

Washfngton, D.C.

08

Organization under

Project (PATANFARE),

An organisation' onbaldined under

New York L 0X

Project (ASSILVER?

Ine. - Manhattan,

transterred to i an Project (DOALIBI. U1

Washlagton, D.C.

funding mechanian under Project (JITPOPLAR/10),

08

Ul

34/BR

---

## Page 32

14-00000

>9

42.

, Inc. - Washington, D.C.

49.

-08

Recruited by CCS in 1960 as (LPCORSET/75]for multl-

quently integrally related to

Project LUEXTED an a renearch action organization.

• Manhattan, New York

Recruited by CCS in 1955 and exclusively used for agent

cover and support (not for organtratiom] subaidies)

abroad. Uned overationallyluntll 1967. Provided cover

U3 101

1a |l

03!"

03, 1T

• 8nd.

05, 10

44.

• Manhattan, New York

Recruited by CCS for agent cover in 1932. Provided

cover td'l

for SB staff agentl

1952 - 1958, under Project ARDRAG, ' Used by

[for leade and nosistance in handling defectors.

28

G.

Unwitting Recipient of Cover Grante

79

15. L New York! 108

• Manhattan,

(project DIPILLAR).

29

It almo received legitimate grante from six founda

tional

24,27,64,49,29,29,29

S322T

3Z/BR

03

---

## Page 33

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following listed

or named organizations in Annexen A through & are the

1tem numbers of organizations included in the

• 5 Apr11

1968 Ramparts I1st (Annex P).

---

## Page 34

14-00000

NOTE:

The numbers in parentheses following listed

1968 Ramparte Liat (Annex F).

---

## Page 35

14-00000

CECRETI

3238

AANTEX D

FIFTY-FIVE ORGANIZATIONS WITH NO KNOWN CIA CONNECTIONS

Elve Organizations Which Made Legitimate Grants to

CIA Protect Orgaulations and Suspect Organt-

atlong

1. Avnlon Foundation - Manhattan, New York

Made legitimate 1951 grant to

Foundation

2.

Church Foundation, Frederic C. - Boston, Masanchusetts

08

Made legitiate grants to

Mr. Church was cleared

but never used operationally.

3. Harmlechlages foundation - l1lvaues, VIsconain

Made leritimate rante to

1. Hochchlld Fund, In. - Manhattan, New York

Gove legitimately to

- 41.

(ORFLUENT).

5. Lindaley Fund, John - inhattan, New fork

Gave legitimately tol

08

B.

Sht Ormnientions Which Received Legltimate Grants

From Foundations

LFCORSETS) Used by CI

OI:

s 13 616 2

M/BR

---

## Page 36

14-00000

MINE

SECRET

-2-

>9

7.

8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

- Manhattan,

New Fork

_08

May have recelved

Brown Foundation

legitimato grant fron J. Frederick

• 08

79

- Manhattan,

New Tork L 108

Rocodred a legitimate grant from battaker Foundation

Washington, Connec

fleut

108

Recelved

Foundation

legitinte cent fro. Anerican Heritage

- Philadelphia, Pennaylvanta

Recelyed a legitimate grant from Catherwood Foundation

1 08

29

- Philadelphia,

Pennsylvania L J08

08

Received legitimate grants from Catherwood Foundation

and . Alton Jones Foundation (99).

- Manhattan, New York E 18

Recelved legitlmte

mante fron CatherwoodL

Hobby Foundntions

I DAle from Hermischteger Foun

tion (70) whica had no CIA flea.

• Manhattan, New York

08

Recelved legitimate grant fron J. M. Kaplan Fund

• Manhattan, New York

08

Recolved legitimate mnte from Cleveland Dodge Founda

tion

08

SECRET

25/BR

---

## Page 37

14-00000

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

SECRET

C.

Three Legitimate Donore to Suspect Organizations

29

• Manhattan, New York

Gave legitimately to youth organizations.

- Manhattan, New York

08

1.08

Inc. - Washing.

toR, D.C. L 108

Legitimately sponsored Georgetown Univeralty Center

for Strategie Studies.

Tuo Organization which Received Legitimate Grante

Iron Sugpect Donore

Manhattan, New York

08

Becelyed legitimate lunds Iron Harnlachfeger Foundation

1. 08

29

New Haven, Connectieut

08

poseirad lositizato sunda stou Old Doulnion Foundation.

81x Organizations Whore Officers/Directora Were Asto-

stated FIth CIA Protecte

it tried to iri

a La

20321

15/BR

---

## Page 38

14-00000

CH210

•TIN

29

19.

06

• Manhattan, New York

I President of TYSA (SOGUESSER)) Ol

was an offleet 29-

20.

• San Frncisco, Cellori

See above. There may be a tie tol

(OTPILLAR) Off1-

core.

29

29,01

21. |

- Chiengo, Illinoim

See above.

>9

30.

- Chicago, Illinois

Aduimony comittee Includes

(uned

11 PrOfeCt (ABUILDFIRE) .

(118) 01,06,24

29 and l

and |I

former DDI araff end

ployeR.

Becelved Tegitimate grants fron Carnegle Endou

29

23.

= Wahlngton, D.C.

JOY

Dabb

who were

08 on

Women Voter

"Bravat) beard vre nerve in Lenge of

24.

- Bonton, Munchuetts (131)

116 29

Trastee 18

and

(75).

F.

Thirty One Orfanizations With no Evident Comection.

To the Othere, Except That Their Names May be

Suapect

25. Atrian norton students Poundation, 800. - Manhattan,

New Fork

.. an on thie ar ta

SECRET

25/BR

---

## Page 39

14-00000

• SIVE

SECRET

26.

American Academy of Political and Social Selence (uo

27. Amertean Foundation for Overseas Blind - Manhattan, New

York

28. Arrlenn Fund for Crechoslaval Refugees, Inc. - Manhat-

tan, New York

29. Anertean Institute of Pacific Relations, Inc. - Manhat-

tan, New Jork

30. AnTicab at ture for mesearel in the Behavloral Sciences -

Pitteburgi, Pennsylvan 1a

31. Amorat Lare erence ou International Alara, 1a0. -

32. Atlantie Counoll for the United States, Ine. - Washington,

D.C.

33.

Center for Cross Cultural Communioation - rashington, D.C.

34.

enter for the study of International Development

35. Conquate Devalopment foundation, Iac. - Norwalk, Conner-

87.

Farmers and Yorld Alfalrs, Inc. - Philadelphia, Pennsy.-

varie

38.

Free Chim

New Fork

for Medieal and Refusee Ald - Manhattan,

Fund for

Relief of Cuban Exilell, Inc. - Coral Gables,

Flority

Jund for she helles of Businn Sclentlots and Uriter

In trie, Ine. - Manhattan, Neu York

41. Institute

for Propaganda Analyals, Inc. - Manhattan, New

Fork

X222.r218

16/8R

---

## Page 40

14-00000

". dл..:

…??!

...

O8

42. Institute of World Affaire - Manhattan, New York

13. Internatora, a Poor clarion Scholarship Fund, ano. -

4*. International Development Services, Inc. - Manhattan,

New YOrk

15. Internationnl Legal Ald Association - Dover, Delaware |

46.

Internation, as "ducation lovement, Inc. - lanattat,

New York 08

47.

Internation Beroice of Laformation Foundation -

Baltimore, Maryland

10. International Social Beraler Aerican Branch, Inc. -

mnnhattan, New York

40.

League for Industrial Democracy - Manhattan, New York

50.

Near

East College Assceintion, Inc. - Manhattan, New York

B2. RaNdolpl Bducatfonal Rund, A. Ph111p- Manhattan, Her

52.

Stevenson, Adlal I., Memorial Fund - Chicago, Illlnote

53. Tall Timbers Research, Ine. - Tallahassee, Florida,

united States Coolitoe for sotagean, Inc, - Manbattan,

New Tor

85.

Moria Wide Breed tina Toundation; Inc. - imatter,

New Tork

08

08

70!

SASIET

1/BR

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SMUSITINE

SECRET

ANNEX

E

THREE FORMER PROJECT ORGANIZATIONS HOT INCLUDED IN April

1968 RAMPArte LIST BUT VULNERABLE BECAUSE THEY WERE

FUNDED BY ORGANIZATIONS ON THE LIST THAT FUNDED

EXPOSED ORGANIZATIONS

79

7I/OPS -[ Project ZROCCUR.

291

Covertly funded by

1135) 1862

• 1966 and by

29

In 1965.29

covertly

funded six other project organizations.

also funded a1x others, four of them also funded

29byl

11.29

was used in

which Involved a

_Project PASHELL, 24, 01

Erant.

3.

243

TSD Project IMICOTTON, HEF was coyertly funded by

_ and

Baird was previously exposed.

The three foundations,

respectively, covertly lunded four, alx, and three

other projecte. >

3.

01,29

Project (TPGLARE

received subutantial covert frants thel

1862 - 1966.

(117)

(TPTONIC)) and I

PeN) lane to other ect orcanizations,

(ORBEND/VOALIBI)).

29,01

29,01

SSOXITIVE

ZI/BR

---

## Page 42

14-00000

Ramparis

2os orlate Strent one. 45

York CIty,

10025

40r11 5, 1958

¿e Rosandoe

$i::

Division

Indiral Sevenue service

11ii crostiention âve., i.i.

castin-son, D.C. 20224

Ramonres "arazine 1s under contract to ictraw-Hill

ruti shine Commany to produce a book dealing miun orranizations

"re funded by or cooper-ted with the Central Intelligence

Arenc".

¿e have alreary obtained nuch of the bacirround

aniormation on these orranizations from the followine sources:

insection of the orcanization's literature and interviews

with their staff members;

Insection of records octained from the Choritzole

Organizations Division of the Attorney General's office in

the states of Illinois, massachusetts and New tori;

3)

The National Information Bureau In New York;

4)

The foundation Library in New York and iashinaton, D.C.; and

5)

Groun Research, Inc. In iashington, D.C.

In order to comolete the research, it 1s very important for

us to insnect the 990-1 tax forms of orfanizations which, for

various reasons, we have been unable to inspect at the district

011ic :3

of the Internal Revenue Service.

Following your

surrestion during

our tclephone conversatior,

submitting an alphabetical list which includes the location

on thi ormantration and the vears of the 990-1 forms tirt we still

n.: 50 inspect. All of the orranizations liated appers in

Cumulative List- Graaniz tions Described 1n Section 170 (a) of the

Inter22t revenue Code of 1954,

Purlication io.

78 (Revised to

December 31

1955), and the Jupplement No.

1967-5•

Althouch this is a sizeable list,

we have narrowed it to

the rose essential erranizations currently under investiration.

de will call next week to clarify any cuestions you may

have and to make an appointment for the inspection. If 1t 1s

arrerable wit's you, several of our reseerchers will come to your

Wastinmoon office when the files are ready, so that we mar complete

the wor: as ruickl! as possihle.

teler one minher 1a faia) 222-11%60° an Immediate nature, my

If there are any

Respectiully yourg,

vin

- Trappier

Jon Frapnier

---

## Page 43

14-00000

Ramparts

ilnt of oroniations for wich 990-a tax forms are renuested

Years requested: 1903, 64, 65, 66- unless

otherwise Indicated

* 1023 unx forms also requested

sifrican-american Institute, Thet

wash, D.C.

Mirich-arerichn Inbor Center, Inc."

NY, MY (Van)

¡rican-Aerican Students Foundation, Inc.* Mannattan, *Y

" scan sundent 11d Fund, Inc.*

san., NY

Sa Refuree Ohinese Intellectuals, Inc.&

san., ivY

Anerican icademy of Zolitical ana Social Science

aerican-Asian

saucational archante, Inc."

tar., My

(nefore 1966: American Airc-Asian Educational Excharre, Inc.

jimerican Committee for Cultural Freedom*

kan., iX

inericar Council for Enlares in the Professions, Inc. inn., i

Imerican Council for Nationalities Services

Man.. Ny

tor-ency Committee for Tibetan refurees, Inc."

Yan. 27-

corintion for Oversens Elind"

Han., NY

armon runds of refugees, Inc."

Man., NY)

sanerion riends of fussian freedoN jar., dyl

Kincrican Frienes of Viet Nan, Inc."

4an., NY

perican Fund for Czechoslovak fefugees, Inc.

Kan. , NY :

¡x'merican Fund for Free Jurists, Inc."

"ilminaton, Del.

dimerican Heritare Foundation, The

Man. , NY

"American Institute ci Pacific Relations, Inc."

Van. , ivy

imerican Institute for Research In the Behavioral Scierces+

Pittsturgh

Yamerican

"orean fcuncation, Inc., Thes

Yan., NY

mericon innor Conference on International iffalrs, Inc.*.

Man.,

American colitical cience AssocitIon, The

rash.,

D.C.

ilmaricar society of African Cultures

Man., NY

American riversities Field Staff, Inc?

"an., Ny

---

## Page 44

14-00000

Ramparts

¿ nacroo. Foundation, i.D."

Houston, Texas

Associatio:: for International Development"

Litlantio Council for the Unites Ststes, Inc-*

1965,66

Paterson, t.J.

iash., D.C.

"ivnion Foundation

wanh., NY

Xcrion Foundation, i1lllant ran., iX

1966

3°

odmin Foundation, The"

Nan., NY

XEranta Foundation* N inite Plains, NY

1966,

rond-Hich Foundation*:

columbus, Chio

x=rown Foundation, The j. Frederick" Boston, Mass.

1956

35

Carnegle indorment for International Peace

an., NY

«Catherwood Fornaation, The"

Philadelphia, PA.

¿center for Cross Cultural Communication

wash., П.С. 1964,65,66 =

enter on Information on America, ther

Washington, Conn.

Center for the Study of International Development* BostonMass1965

"Enuren Foundation, Frederic C."

Boston, vass.

1965,65

¡colt Foundation, Inc.*N Far, M

1965,66

"omnission for International Development»

Man., NY

Somnittee for Self Determination, Inc.*

van., MY

/*Committee of Correspondence, InC.*

Man., NY

"Fommittee of Seventy, Irc.*.

Ph1la., Fa.

Community Development Founâation, Inc.*

"buncll of International Prormans for Jouth

Norwalk, Conn.

Cleveland, Ch10

Leaders and Social workers, Inc., Thes

Xcounci: on face and Caste in "orld Iffairs, inc."

Man., My

(redictillbity terminated as ci Dec. 31, 1966)

49

¿Dearborn Founrationi

Chicago, Ill.

Apodre Foundation, Inc. clevelana Fi.

Elsenho"er Exchanue Feddowship, Inc."

Man., NY

Phila., Pa.

1966

52

Entlina Soenkine Unions

Man., NY

---

## Page 45

14-00000

Ramparts

Enlan man in Union*

-----

San Francisco, 0a1.

Inriksh inenkine Union, Chicaro Eranch"

chicano, Ill.

*Secto no in International Ilviar, Ince, Iher

Putney, Vi.

Parcelr. Foundation, Inc.'

Men., iY

1966

nor's she world iffal?'s, Inc.*

Phila., Pa.

Microree Foundation, Tact

Dallas, Texas

1965,66

Forcin Policy Assodation

vian., NY

Fer China Fund for venical And Refunee A10, Thei

Mar., iY

X'reedom Fund, Inc."

an., NY

ircedom House, Inc.#

lian. Ny

Krriends of Indin Committeet

wash., D.C.

&Fuda cor International Cooperative Development»

Chicago, Ill.

¿ Fund for In ernational sochel and Economic Eduantion"

Pittsburgh, 22.

(formerly: Center fcr Fural Develooment Phila., Pa. )

Fund for the Relies of Cuban Exiles, Inc.* Coral Gables, Fla.

Fund

for the nellef of Russian Scientists and Writers

Man., iv

68

In sxile, Inc."

Governmental iffairs Institutes

Wash., D.C.

'ranary Fund, thes

Boston, lings.

1965

Tarnischierer Foundation*

Milwaukee, Wis.

Fobby Touncations

72

courton, Texas

Xrobiltzelle Foundation&

Dallns, Texas

Hochschild Fund, Inc.

Man., NY

1956

1955,65

1956

¿Homelana Founation, Inc." N tan., NY

XIndevendence Foundation, Thes

Soston, Mass.

1966

XInifendent Resenrch Service

van., NY

Institute for imerican Stratery" Chicago, Ill. Yas, burNo

KInsiltute for International Order, Inc.*

Man. NY

X Institute for International Youtin affairs"

rian., iy

---

## Page 46

14-00000

Ramparts

inasituno for Procoranda, Analysis, Inc."

dan., dy

Insilo : for Soclal Fcience Pencaroh, 'The; Inc.*

nsh., I.C.

X:: cultu':: ci Iniernatirnal Eaucation, Inc. Man., iy

xinstituicos International Labor deseurch, Inc.

ran., NY

12gülEn O! FUblle ddministration Han., NY

Insultutr: of torld Affalrgi

Man., My and warner, w.H.

In:er-americin iress Association Scholarshin Fund, Inc."

Han., Ny

Int-rmaiicnal Center for Social Hesearch, Inc."

dan., NY

MIntenr.iornl Development Foundation, Inc."

ran., iy

Intern-ticnal development services,

Inc.*

ran., iY

(vecuctibilit! tertinatea as of Dec. 31, 1959

-

In'ermaticnal Lemal Ald Assocaation"

Dozer, Del.

ntornational Vass Education Movement, Inc."*

Man., Ny un to 1964,

then wash., D.C.

Internauioral"Feasant Union" lash., D.C.

International Rescue Comnitüee, Inc. Man., Ny

XInternational Research Institute, Inc."

Princeton, N.J.

International Research on Comrunist Iechniques" Man., NY

Internatioral Service of Information Foundation" Baltimore, sia.

to 1963, €

97

Internitional Social Service-American Branch, Inc.* Man., iy

Liran Foundation, Ther dan., vy

ijiones Foundation, Inc., l. Alton

Nan., vY

'DJones-C'Dennell Foundation

Dallas, Texas

Ixaplan Fund, Inc., The J.M.*

Man., Ny

19÷5

1965,56

1965,66

Xossuth Foundation, Inc., Ther

Har., NY

l0imarue inr Induatrial Lemocracy

can., Ny

ilerrue of iomen Veters iducution Fund

Hash., D.C. -

?

105

Iindsley rupd, John"

ian., ay

Raitasuer Fountati un Ino.a MS Iuezus iidi

lian., NY

1965,65

1966

---

## Page 47

14-00000

Ramparts

Klatie connintion, W1loughhysi

Irovidence, F.I.

X:" Owar Family Foundasion, InC., TheiN

Yan., tY

Deareror Find: Detrolt, Mich.

"eck soundatient Greerwich, Con:..

N

1965,60

1965,66

1966

sadie sast Institute, Ther

ilash., D.C.

unson Foundation* lan., HY N

ational Faucation Association of the t. So, The

1956

Hash, D.C.

Hear Inst Collere Association, Inc.*

Man., NY

"ar sait Foundation lan., NY

¿ad Dominion Foundation, Ihe

ran., Ny

1965,66

1965,66

Xelin Foundation, Spencer I., Ann i1#N Alton, I11.

Operation Crossroads Africa. Inc.&

Yan., st

¡Chertions and folicy Resesrch, Ine"

wash., D.C.

¿Èversens education Fund of the inacue of Homen Voters# (Wash, D.C-t0

Aradercwski Foundation (Irnacy Jan).

van., NY

1965,66

¿Pan mcrican Foundation lasho, D.C.

1966

Merce with Freedom, Inc." tan., it

1964,55,66

l=eon1e-t0-People Henlth Founô-tion, Inc., ihes

lash, D.C. -

& Freins-Stokes Fund, The Irustees of tre

N Yan., "1

Kara Onaritarle Foundation, the Sidney and Esther

Boston

1905,56

Maranlon Educational Fund, 1. ?01l10

Hnn., MY

Aho ison foundation, jaires E. Nior., iy

*Fonine: m Charitable Irust* N coston, Mass

rosent crunction, bentamin j. Chicaro, Ill.

1965,66

1965,60

1056

131

Forco foundatirni

Boston, rass

1964)

cambridge, Mass

Asoniabena Foundation, Ihe: N Boston, dass.

1905,06

134

Stever.ong

idlal E, Merorial Fund*

Chicago,

I]1.

(at"es 1904 name is Etevenson Institute of International

....-

Afinirs, Chica

---

## Page 48

14-00000$

Ramparts

mannen roundntion"

marlerood, io.

Xinca of aisona of tine fussian orthodox churen

cutside of mussia*

Inll Famiors Hoseirch, Inc."

Tallahassee, Fla.

tolstoy Foundation, Inc,

Yan., iX

United stater south Africa Leadershin xchange

Program,

Inc. *

140

United states Committee for refurees, Inc.*

Amitner Truat ud anted Dec. 20, 1050 for

Car Endle Purnoses, John Hays

And they

Roos uld dated

Dec. 29,1958 for

cha"itable purposes, John Hay.

niorü Chivergiay Service

Man, NY

orld lide Broadcastinr Foundation, Inc.*

Man., iY

Yale- 1r-China

Association, InC.*

New Heven, Conne

1960-

kan., Mu

Ph1l3., Fa.

van., Ny

Man., "y

van.,

NY

1963,65,66

144

---

