t04-10462-10087

»

merase.

+ Baw Tort on 26 Saptenber, ustng the Lncrediole Pecommition psvese gives

po: MhSeb were exyelies from the YER, var 12 fect ta cant acre of the original

* Loosly lanewted the fact thet @ neuter ef wirab's wean: ana, particularly

»
tp eerenere en

DEORARI FOR Eek EEG
SUBIECY ¢ Daport of Meeting vith Sergio Rojus
RRVERINCEs  LOW)-3601 (1 17910), 2 Septenter 1960

1. Uhen tt we learned here that Hojas es fotending to go to hinad
end there to stay vith Ricorso Loria, 14 vas troasut it night be best to
02k to bin before be visite Kiwi 19 as to saestat conition te thiake
ang before he is exposes to the full blast of wsciFRs watumre whieh be

Sp seweatn Gn cot Aone tote are nt cine ge enti nugee an

in Paregraph § of reference, aad be egreed to stop off in v. ston on
Poste to Kiend 27 keptecter, i sean i

2. X mrt with Baj.s for eaveral hours ix the Nheretem-Cerlte: Bote)
om 27 September, Rojas besss cat sorverza*ion with a lesztiy diseource
intending to estadliad e picters oc! newaf 20 a comlate sortbat enong
‘the opposing Crben exile srowgs, be ant bricg « wraber of eay group end
heavily sadowed with Cdyeetivinys, As a waster ef fant ip the couse of
Gur discussion he spoxe vith seuuricg sblectivity, but on belesee enewly
fevored tke poiet of visw of these yous Favoletiona: ise of ¢!
Rov Bake op thd Alinate 96 Literse lan, wba fist thenselves vege
Pejectss by the FR. Be is vell tequatmted \ith ¢21 bictnry of the MERtg
part in te teroasion af te FED, ‘23 faitinl ec.action of AADC -1 te
represent the M2, ard wast ov: later to crerte tae sslit of the pn

- With the ra. Es preserted tha caaal arswnect ines tha Mat bed mace o
Yad mistare tn SLicvitg JFID5T.2 9 le tet
883 ARBDOY=3 vas Simaqwwly cagturad by
to @ potet of reprasesting oaly bis a views as tstereets tn the PH,
largely te the excles‘ce ef tos 122 interests, (Folia argueas, vhier ms
ep wall oresentes by X2tas as I've ever beard it, 1p sccurcte. 1s is the
thing woied we heve traded to suet) enier the rag ast perbics have not
keken wxffivient notice ef the fact that the bhi Jiseisenta, 20 called,

5) Rejae rpcke st Lergia eben tha Alisnsc also and paid that be bed
felted vite a pander of theve people iu Dev Tork th cay barore. =

of tre pilitary type, are Being varus ws « retel? of thue éi2tereness
whieh exist betyeen tra FHSS Tevolntiow ire arj oe FD, se he eon 10,
3 seid bia weet x agrees wth bin Lat Wie J tronzys that the solution

for these ailttery types was Sivple a t.0., if tooy vald preses3 thea
gelven uc initvituats cffertng “tyte eerrioes to rhe Fi) tet thay woald
‘be acceyses and haze valeanls errives weeid © 7cv te gece woe, Branples
$m this ease were Chinva, Dias Text. Ane Dat, et ol, tireremtis, Sagas |
ms St cuagested ta this cose
Beetios thet peopie ef this ‘type wers reing victiaizn ty aneh pocnle as

Laie Conte Aguero tho ts atyract of thety polttres? acpirations ere exsing
these milltxy aypee tor TAP TEIZG 2B) Folitical bargaining fosdere

RETURNTO CIA”
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce _



Lee

‘4
i

|. ghesftese! thes.

we

‘ 7

*
Beojas eeews3 ecorvbot teprested vith thie urrucert 32 1 sugested thet Le
Bight wee voatevar irfivenes be hoo to fnflusies uerple Wks Chines, whos
De Goveribed as bring deceitete te Baw Fork uss <cpcekses to the point of
threstened. eaicsde, to break avy fro tie PelIti6o9 end Join the yD.

3+ Rojas iden began to epeak of the tacts ¢ifferences betveen agate
Weal ba calls tba young revoleticaaries, mevsize tle colginal 2étheofaely
Koreremt people, and the politivce, auce as Fo: ons, Sanshek arangu, ot ai,
whoa they refer to as "lee Visjos*. Tac youre revolutioneries fee] wat
With °Les Viejos" i power tbat Cuba will olise backwards tomers the olf
political regimvs ané that theses latter are caly paying lip service to the
Proposition thet the original ates of the rercletiom mact 6° forward bes
witbeot Castro ant, of corsa, vithous any C. iat influeros. Rajas
eurtowaly referred to these politicos ta i+ us being too far to the
Tiart, I eaid thet thie vivs of (hem was ecmoletety mweeeen on Btn ode
BCLs b7-Bost Keo ONSIZEr them to BS liberals covsiigrably for to the
aii, Z edded thx’ ic these pecple vere acy rere te tor left, tey would
Ye a ccures cf serious worry co ane UE. Soverrmot. Rojas claaged the
‘eubsect.

: 4. Ke wentes then to keow tf 1 wai! be 5
Gorernesat to leu? ite ceppart to more tem oo:
teat the 5. 6, Goremrment wae not evzrctirg
Be vent on tc cay tose Lf aeopevs eotic te *o totriveals etch as

the military types re nd wreticors praviocey a ps te the Aliensa,
for oxmeple, 08 f ihele arganizetion (ahwes af ict) Agere Fitedtp, trad
Chis BRL? Rot emiy Buin tle eereices af ry vt oNe osopla fe te fink
osainst Castro bet wisht sow the aesde oF 52. stabtlity for the fetere.
Bo pointed ont that if the young revo.svisuci:e vo are now rejected by sce
Yad are stifled in their efforte to cootrirvze to the antiasstro etraggle,
Sas7 VELL Repevowat © Uutliedn ectinmriias Sum: élenent for the fetars,
Weich coals be very ¢rangzag t>U. <./Cuben srlatims. I thing there is «
fair secext of evdsterce to this eraweest sm) Isls cla so. Is aay cA,
Rojas wes given the ruyzise wec-i. 3. cnroirersz: im toese eatls afcaire
(vaich, ef course, be Goer tot bey) and sovice tuat he do waetever be can

to bring about unity se betwen sesiril aresyy. Me vais tol! that the FED
appeared to ae the (vouy walea bsd the pretest cr colnation ead greatest
apperent potential for swceess, crf trat ell rrcserm? would be wall ade
Vises to ettwapt te tee pre “ith “3. &. siai'thet he bad 2 strong
feeling (sak ucity oa this asts was aot prosivle of tia tins because

the feeling sgorg the yuans 107 2.ctimesion wn tanaizg too hich ond too
ewotionslly egainst the FID. Re cits ts thoweot tazse ypuung revolstionsries
fee) that they have been tereeo ons a7 seicasceting polisicos, and their
friends end rortarts ta the B..2. Coverrmest have tnrset thetic bocks end

REAR e SSRPae RSE SESE

seeacts

for the Us Se
+ Wiex T reoparad
Fosse just shrecged-

Mekal MDs Batic al BER ain en tnedie a nia icbthiniohiteenictitinen Hale wns

Ses. Boesewe wt inks tory are wizierins Bitvermess aad diese -
Adlestonseet. Rojas tear wagested thot perse;2 I vould te ritliss to
errengs & mevtiag tor bin wth can resrecentatir? cf the FD, epeetfieally
this wus eet bo be esa uf Le Jive primipsl, coaid west with me im
Om ottouypt te reece whrar ciftececwe an revitablish relationaetps acd
2 Sot his that ti ae interesting mmgcestion

bes 3 hous 13 wes wr} posetd.o iwemec: a: tis 2S. Covermm=t, riile



Spor sees

oS.

4% eaimsains 8 eostinacee iaterest in these affairs emt bas occarional
ecatact with the several groupe, is mot and will act vaczer curolved.
Bojea said be knows this te be enirne ep) ie “ewilcered st the insistence
Ait the 0. 8. Goverment is wot epomcoring toe PF. LT mree toa ummtere
Seggestion te hin that be inde bis frisuis, #.5. cuxte Agesro am! Lorie,
to appeeach the PED again end attasys os tuelr cea to seke suse RecoEESd ++
Sten. Tm dating wo, I engpeeted they might core tier obtaining the services
ef an oléer, more sophisticated, miture iodiviccal vios tey comls trast
Xo represen’ thes ta thesg overtures to tre :hv: 7 sald I thought that
thi MER s Jifticulties, for oxamy.e, stam from poor represetisiium, IT
Deliows thst Bojas taumediately weptally cost Limcels in this tole. Our
@iscareices ended ot this pointe

Ge Rojes said that be was pleuning to stay 12 Miosi caly @ few Gaye,
after Witen ba vorld vetern to Leesan. Ma sats Surtues tant 17 soe
Yooult of his wieit here bo Beeman convinees wet ue eraid cotrinste.
sodctestially to thie Cobaa exile aitastinn fr tc. 54, oe voais rene
29 fics employmer->
‘Tia, vnone Bee phase caber

othervise, be plens to reaats ix Serops ace 5
teore. Ja Kiewi bo stated he will stay with
26 Camel GOs

BEGAN & RICE

az4le (28 Sept 1960)

en ne eee

epee eee ences” tem pee Gee ith teres te

