104-10102 10282

‘es

Z
“pane
¥

Farseurosih « Pad sans peas weer wok

Mevixieats 4e Mewar: 1m Revetnctonari » MRR

1, RICARDO « reflected ta WAVES 4E- EET Bal
XL WAVE 2547 whten te ecneduled for 15mm. ~

3. FAVE. 8587 » eparation BRAZIL :

4.) Operation VILLA AMOUR © WAVE 8937 [

Wind Ua group wo are plasaing operations for Fiear, Mataanee and Lao Vise

sHcnta peat ale waede, Leaders of thle BIEREBDAHRZEX AMIAVAc4 and BAG Ah:

1 We are treintag
will bo iaiistrated Withés nexi sit weeks 4 TheeWUahe ives radlc operators icf

(R40 group plea tre laciructess wespone ged aedacage. This training wll & |.

bp the Mrat of Decerter, a

32ta xf New mtor Geous
Thke ecvered 4a WAVE 8743 eagald atl take ploce by 30ey of Nowember, Filion
Gat tie syaup will cont oe in ongesla tive and operations, Trataing of pore 4.2

ta tha seme Cee Late grove ea prevtzeat crsap sau applies te all peouze.

= Resclusiomirte

= sted!

arvent of threes masyreweceebing erations, WAVE 6555, ates

“AL be piacad on eifeesere coves and receics seppiion whengrer ebeathes :

Vrtther texaiag bad to roaai ve aple te nang Qiate wher Waster acd ©

reqetre sant for rece xica eons litse saree. Yiret ane ta Sernagety 27>

Ay thie lpran ates amre ga pee.

wees Mer, Trat

i ~~ tee! yew ere Co Cy f



ow aywad eof (oe thin boat, This group haa pot [stead

nto Revsluctenario de] Pueblos RKP uw

re ingging benind cther yroune. we don't have @ qualifisd

Te fe peop’
ty type to des) with, “We are dealing through ace

Ve intead to get foar peogts of their's by i4th of December, We did support
asf operation whare Gur requirements re reception petate ete. would permis,

DUNST EAI SREXA We raracd therm down taet weed because thoy bad

a bad boat,

‘Thiv gvoup proposed to pst in o teain to cstaslish contact wits fateznal assete.
Gevup withows communicativns to loside and have operators who refuse to go in
Diind, This group hig not been affective since AXC)IP-3 lef, Talis operation

could go within six weeks 1 we had case offlesr tins.

AMHAZE Group
7 . oh = a - :
WAVE 0659 © Fotlowing this we are ylanoing one ia the Santa Clara ragion - copze

m ine 4bere extrema wort end of Island. Critical comonunications.

dnsezeadest Eyello DUQUE,
Traia fire men for group 1th November. Tralaing of operator will proceed

curventiy, faterosted in GW and revise plaas to mest prosant policy requiremen!

Firet rhree man of this group inte Sierra Crista) ca or about 20 Dacembar,



1 be Inplemented ekbin six eoehs, Focrth plan tg being atvdied and

Goa ales ho inoplemeeted within efx weeks, CHOCHIST te operations whore team
going ia Neth coast acd thay are to aet gp the dlepatch and reception poiate.
Higs. Ava detaile for COCHISY, APACHE, AND GERANIMC. . The pending
vperation ehich can gu be six weeks to a teac: cf edont three people and they

AU go in 45 miles eaat of the CHOCAISE pole.

Ekg paseradn
SACTa
Saretage plan eeta:ttred Sv the FORD o: che Sala radio station vant
vy porth siewady. Sect oca cian in MEIC AMICI-10 fer eolicetion of the noc cirsrs
tnfor—atias om tha area, Higa or! tn effect.
Plas eubmitred by the DRE + Aerault 3ONIATC pisses, Cnly aasidecss 2.

witha
wortin jeners) plan of overall Wberatico bet ei under consideration.

poner’
Not implersentas.

Pen for support ef etardestine guar: Cia forces te volume witiia tio arc
seimitled Nerth, FAVK cad vo indication fry: tp marck Te Apyroval oF at.

Pray
Plan which we dxs up for tue delcctisn of three saval cilte of Santin

@ oof castivae? action Biogas toes: Selare retreasur :

have ret considered R avi Save aot etat vn ser.

er Osha enh

fa ony

ssh Subrcicad ®VE

ab et pase ce rear regan: sree, Det roa atayt cress



At af these people we are plancdag gous ra! perrzece “ntesiuns.- stack

cisctrie power, dommuntcation, transportation and masertal

Metor veseel XE VILARO noxt six weeks tele vouse! will begin witt unis

sommeretal tretning, After at least one euver voya ce used operationally;

Can be used with ether yvonsete to supply tong renze craft. Very slow ant wa”

1 capability for reacciag south coast,

ure enutlously, We don't havo vei

TEJANA could te thie within four weeks, freeasetas purchase of bost form: -

other side, {Referriag to Scotland},

“DT Taam
Team of four people presently capable of roaritime recon and operations.

Commeateations

Presently have siz foozle in trainiag two péopie will vegeme instructors and
4oyeratora)

fog operational operators. Will tars three raciod tn tires weeks, one tn

three mosthe, ERROR Ae Ras

For GK the future we have 13 candidates all of tera have bad some training
49 othare move out they will be moved in, Spettet 7 caste candidates prin rily

from these groups. With our present staff capable of tretning six paopic at

one the observing comparimentation, With adaltlonal inciyencus Instrcerors

2 at any eno thus with obrerving sompartrusctation,

err en



rere ere tevious bz!
tay
vet Seruacey ca baste they are Bee ele at oe REE

weed,

nl

cartel. They +

cae ean 5h of these Intspeadiat ejerations mit rere t

of ¢tsin beats out in wey weather and U.en sas. to usy for repaire, Scevrtsy

Sf pavelt lity they would oe wsmportet

“saute ef loadbeg boats. Robe te tak 2a

ture, but sot until capable erews and pood bests,

re to sie Fabersan vio

vise Next tentative operation propoesd by AY:

wood Yusta have (alent), Gubar eageaie, wbich See 29 ae

tevostiageting this, We have mun aie operation with shia groups. It teers geod

ard ee re going to davelop.

Aedier Indvpendest, AMCUTLER.-1, Ge hat cuatict with CSVALOG RAMIALS in
tmearibeay eho desires rajport, Vee have given sin cuttsliase for operation.

Suaime ne hao B19 mea with tyalatng and have

walad gt wevel salt peorit

ve ore trying to Arles bs Sack to group from which he enc,

:CARCIA ERITO ~ Taio gtowp bat trained radio cyoraiad haze are foarty ima

ta Lee Village, Gnestion of tires and lacie of communications with tntersal sasote.



5 . ee

TALS 4, woncertal men, ¢ erierewd

Dtrabky o fale

= Comaguey cosst,, Cood ietea'en eotabliziment of manyreve caching
H rf pastazs | - i
facility, elntlar to proposal of UR, They are ood sroup eo we're! lookiag | -.

ints wee bis know how, : : oa

20th of May Group = Have made requrest for support, Off-shoot of S0th of ” ~
Ho vember Group. Ae a splinter of thie group, being advised to rejoin thele
parent grow. Exploring possibility of supporting tham HM they cannot rejoin:

~ parent, Thetr plans com to ua through AMCLATTER-2, a

.G + Requests are same as {rom other groups, and thio is splinter of

RR, Wo have told them to rejeia parent and provide them general guidelines.

who want
Indevonteat group of ca:up tratears - 40 meaeca! supplies aad transportation

te Oriente, Ne commanications aad willing to sacrifice themeolves in GY.
Given guidelines to forget shout GW and gat resistance plan, Their spokesman

is Frod Geudts.

Independent Group of JUAN MESA = formerly of NDC, Gonarally colncted about
four independent boats which be operats 3 coordinater. Rumcing rescue operations -
and wants support. For incténce, wauts suppor? operation to oxfiltrate aight ;

childres from woat coast. Seaking support for an Oriente iafiltratica

tasm beaded by PR PIN LOPEZ acd 33 mea, Turned kim comn, EYa Dea't :

Rave capablélity to deliver,

i
i
1


lndopesdont sab group neaded by ALDO VERA SEAATIN waste tralaing ant 2 -

sngGort of formal ob gree: “Clsime he will bis taxgets In Havana area We have

ast evan taltd to has on Daas of pout CI bassred Spoksoman t “Coate Ag

Independent aab group of OSCAR DIAL wanteAe provicue grecp, Claim they can

alt targets throughout Cubs. Abo associated with Conte Agvere. WAVE exporionce
with tis sin fo oueh that we don't toch Atediy oa this requast Ao morber. of

FDR rallttary he made things €1(ficult.

Indapondest group - JULIAN DIAZ FERNANDEZ - Claims to havo 309 constitutions}
ermy men taste, Radio oat hore, Willing to go back. WAVE exploring this, FED

try ta He Bim to anther group, but Hf umeurcoasfol asd flint bis claims valid plan

to support Bans.

+. ORLANDO SOUTO « proposes to barrass B CTC vally in Cusnquite Stadiun to
Miramar tonlghé by (iring 76 mo Algh-mexa expldaive exslicinte stadium from

off shere, Told bim no dice,

Ina the CRC pina at Moadquerters hand carried by Bob Davia and given
to| be tathsied fn report. We would ike to have ft back soen.
Cas other operatica « « AMBANTY-} - Thte ass hes $00 pespla'ta Pinar del Blo.

His ta being treised and should go bach ta Decembor
ad

“pd


a
‘ Br tietie ees teacae :
fates tee oe
ve a anna
ee

L Wri CONCEIVED
SELL CONCEIVED
A. Non-politiea! Group =. Infitrate seren mon, Reeruft, deveiop

and organise vealetaaeo, tnteltgence nets, ete, Unierway
A hy nitd-November, sree
B. Game’ non-political Group... Teams ae ) adore, infra five,
operation will be wdsreay, oudjact to ‘weather teneans.
GC. MRR oe Bfiltration operation, Deliver 359 Pounds daractttton,
lafiltrate polities! leader, ceruizate two others. Vaderway
ae audject to weather eenditions, Ef
D. UR wc Team compored of isteraal leader of group ‘Phas
intellgonee ecordicstor to de- laftitrated byl Decander,
EK. Independent Groep bested by EVELIO DUQUE .. Trals five

snen fer gresp 1204 Movember, Tialaing af opersior'will |
prscoed Survently, Firet three mea cf thls group will ge into j
Sierra Cristal on or about 20 December, ‘ !
i F. Another independent droup elaims costae: with OSVALDO
RAMIREZ tn Eoeambray, who desires support. We have
siven guidstines for operations, Calims has S10 men with
per training and have infittrated geseral etatt, H
yd MRP «- Batand got forx people of this group inalde by 15 December,
i a SOSHAZERS © Ex MOR ~ ban with expatienee along Camazeey
{ Coast has fensible plan for Sotadlishiag mansrors faching
facility, |



i. POORLY (CO

ede
* Above ts sampling of operations ia this category, All above
have training W/T, other support (acllities, pravided ov closely
saperviced by CIAL :
POORLY CONCEIVED BUT HARMLESW »

A, Reocata ++ This group ‘tpopesed to put {a o team to eotebiten i
conteet with favernal assets. Croup without communications

to inside sad hava epezators who refact ta ge tm bitad,

LB. MRP + Good Intentlons bet thelr direet proposals, ne opposed -
to those undor cur direct supervisios, repeatedly turacd down

by us because of bad boats, no W/T, ete.
almost

GC. ADC oe Gaed plans, good intentions, fall assets outside, lnek

millsact group tnetde,
POORLY CONCEIVED BUT LETHAL 7
‘A. ORLANDO SOUTO « Proposed to harrace 8 CTC ratty fn :
> Quangeite Bindiom ta Miramar tontght by firtag 75 mm highe
exptosiveas inte atedium form off chore. Told him no dice.
B, DRE e+ Plan to agsau BCNIATC prison. No specifics.
Would be of general intoreat caly wader plan ef overall bern
ten
under
C. White Cross - Agarchletic approach. ‘Prepare toAaks aay
mash and grad operetina, Hich rik fadtor, bigh losses.

i
!
|

