104-10217-10120 : : ‘

Ea Cate

ROUTING AND TRANSMisfAL SUP

Keith, i
Reports from Wade received, via Bill S.

6 June. Want you to see this right away,
particularly info in para 1. Para 3 info also
of interest. ALVAREZ is defector DCD had my
name connected with. Other source(s) have made
this same comment about ALVAREZ. Shall forward
to you other reports of interest.

|

Chris. H. !

ww k ; i

Cvs oe gl?

FROM: (Name, ong. symbol, Agency/Post)

neste eat ee RESP MC ROOT een eA NatmereencrseneONE TE

C. Hopkins LACO/SP

OPTIONAL FORM 43 (Rev. 7-7
. BULS. G.P.0. ter7-zet-sso/soso | Prmenbed Sp O34 pee id

t J

ro
e


meen eh RL

28 May 1979
(201-275949)

Memo for the Record

TO s Mr, William Sturbitts

rom

SUBJECT: Reinol GONZALEZ Vonzales - Comments on Interview

in May 1979 in Miami.

1. This Subject was interviewed on the occasionof both our

visits to Miami and we spent at least some 6 hours with him and
still haven't finished. He told us on the occasion of the last
visit that hess#till wants to tell.us about some things going

on in the Cuban exile communisty: in Miami, that some Cubans ares
‘buying ares and planning actions against CASTRO,-etc. He wants to
tell us, he said, thak we'll know and won't be Surprised but he
dJenies all part for himself in any such illegal actions. He does

tart preparations for

that purpose. When we next go to Miami we will listen to what

additional he has to say,

2. jSubject was for the writer the most interesting and perhaps
the most vroductive of the Peonle we were assigned to interview,
chis guy is cut from a different mold from the other 7, He is
‘ough, jintelligent, cunning, ‘shrend-, lacking in formal education,
wut a real toughin-fighter who knows what he wants and knows how
‘© go about it. He is, too, I think, a real opportunist, and this
way explain in part his:reason foryputting on the 6 Nov 61. Tv
‘wogram, I had the fealing repeatedly that ha was net really
oaing clean on many of our questions, but the only two questions.
o which he reacted noticeablyiwere the ones about the TV programs
ond Octavi. These two visibly upset him-eventho I feel
e knew or thought they would be thrown at him and hetad his
nswers prepared. More about the TV Program and BARROSO later.

i
i
H
i



3
his post as foreign relations secretary to-GrteSALVAREZ, Ile
and ALVAREZ had been on opposite ends politically in previous

Ravana and representing the bank workers union, but they had

i put aside their differences to work together against BATISTA.

a Tnen, when CASTRO came along he propelled ALVAREZ to the post in

{ the CTC to which Subject had democratically been chosen. The
imposition of CASTRO's slate took place at a CIC congress in Nov
1960. He claims that he has never seen ALVAREZ since the business
of turning over his files to ALVAREZ was done in 1960, He knows
of course that ALVAREZ went on to other jobs, eventually to the
Cuban Embassy in Madrid, and eventually defected to the US. He

Claims to have no use for ALVAREZ, he's a s_dedicated Commie and he
“would

AMCOAS- scell ow sal ——!
4, Dr. Elena Mederos = is the aunt of PUJAL Mederos, She is
Currently working with the Human Kignts Commission in Washington,

OC. Subject says that some 39 years aco when he knew hee pretty
well she was democratic or leftist in her politics but very lefte
ist in her economics , He described her as a revolutiinary of a
Sort, with lots of prestige in Cuba in those days.

5. So far as he's a wa re there was only one Octavio BARROSO so
the one you're talking about is the same one known to him, the
Same one shot in late 1961 or early 1962, he's not certain exactly
when, He claims that PUJAL and BARROSO were captured at the same
time or at about the same tine.and that it might have been
PUJAL who reported to G-2 of PUAG but in any case he(Subject) didn't
do it. There were others in jail at that time, also, he says, who
could have told G-2 about BARROSO's revolutionary activities, As~ :
Stated, that question, as did the one on the TV program, visibly
supset him-so I'm not at all sure that we got the truth.-

6. Subject was arrested on 11 October 1961 in a raid on the
Cesar Odio Farm, along with a number of other people. On 30 Septaber
1961 a woman belonging to his unit, Dalia JORGE, was arrested,

allegedly placing a bomb in a company there in Havana called CIA,
Subject was carrying documentation in alias but almost immediately

he was coafronted with Dalia who identified him to G.2, But, the

most irportant evddence is the fact that over the next few days

and weeks those known to Dalia in that organization were arrested;

those not known to her were not, Although alledgedly arrested

Planting a bomb, she was almost immediately released and wae eoon

walking the street. A few months later Dalia had married a lieutenant-

in G-2, She later divorced the. lieutenant ( whose name Subject could

fot come up with) and then married Caglos RUBIERA, a nephew of-

Vicente RUBIERA who lives in Miami ,

IO,

|

lorida and works for the AFL/

72, The TV program ~ why? It was the first such appearance by anyone
arrested that could be called in favor of CASTRO.
j The MRP had a pact amongst theaselves, he claims, which stated

MRIS Feuste,. gon ALVAREZ de la Campa y Sotolongo who defected.to- U.S

Feces

he



dnenreee oe WEEN on

———

ro

that anyone captured would not
still free time to change hiddi:
permitted, if forced to,

ee

talk for 72 hours, to give those
19 Places, etc, then one would be

to tell minor things, things it was

thxought the G.2 might already know.

He was taken to

among others Fernando Rojas,

Roberto Jimenez, is interrog
Minister of Foreign Relations
Ministry of Interior. MALMIERCA

Fernandez Rivera (ni

: @ place referred to as POINT X and stripped
naked, He was interrogated almost c

on and all sorts of threats were m:
in the building the voices of oth

‘ontinuously, lights were kept
ace acainst him, He could hear
ers known to him in the MRP,
iow in Caracas),

ators were Isidoro MALMIEKCA, how
» but then just a secretary to the

NSO (fnu), apparently an assistant to MALMIE

Wore intelligent and much better
latter did a poor job and got little out of Subj.

did a much better Job

Section people of his organization (MRP) in ja.
pay with their lives for what they,

MRP had done,
be to go on Tv

The only way he could save then,

and tell the nation what his or
doing, tell them how useless resista;

IMIERCA, who was much
trained than MALMIERCA, The

lect but ALFOxSO

dy been nade not
SOme or most of the military
il wouldhave to
Subject and otkers of the
VALDEZ said, would
ganization had been

nce to CAST¥O was, and at the
Same time condem the US for its comp

Now, Subject claims that some
sis own thinking and size up of t
t) he had decided sone tine earli
sort the MRP was dorducting was u:

3z00ka from a room overlooking a
2 appear on 4 October 1961
Jans, through Dalia, >ubje

© ceremony, Of the th

An-attemt was to have been made on Castro+
af,

2 and VALDEZ had fou
‘ct assumes, Anyway,

an escape route worked cut, just prior to

jeld feet and took off for the Stat

azo was there but did not fire the weapon, for some reason not
foun fe Subject, and the third man, t

2member, apparently did not go up to the room either,

licity in antieCASTRO efforts,

of this fitted after a fashion into
he state of things. He claims that

er that internat resistance of the

iseless, and 2) that it would be

Ss life, using a
where CASTRO was

nd out about thease
Subject claims
room, which had been

public plaea

|
|

|



Bell, believing that such resistance act
fact futile and beiieving that CASTRO would in fact shoot
his men, and believing that he could all alone determine
what was to be said on TV, he decided that to accept the offer
was the correct thing to do. He could not have the blood of
others on his hand, he said, untéss something very worthwhile
was being accomplished. He professed to VALDEZ,however, that he
had ‘no authority all by himself to make that decis ton and asked
to discuss it with three or four MRP leaders there in jail with
him. VALDEZ agreed that he could discuss it withF¥ernando ROUJAS
but with no one else, and that was done. ROJAS reluctantly
approved,

He wrote the presentation he was to give on TV and he siad
ho substantive changes were made by the Cubans. He constructed
it, he said, to 1) tell them as much as possible whse they
wanted tohear without doing any real harm, 2) protect those
Still at large, and 3) give away as little senstitive information
as possible, He said he realized fully what he was doing, that
he would do it acain if caught in the same situation, and that
he takes full responsibility now as then for what he did and
said and still feels it was the only logical think he could

do. Again, this was not a subject he enjoyed discussing; he appear-

ed in fact a bit embarassed by it all, but he knew it would be
coming at some point,

8. ‘Why didn't the Cubans release him after the xansom was paid
them? Because he would not sign a vaper in effect Saying he was

“sorry and asking CASTRO'S forgiveness. He meet with Alonso PUJOL”

conditdons of the release one day after the ransom had been paid,
and when he refused the Ge2's conditions PUJOL took a Piece of

fact, he did sign it. PUJOL then handed it to the military officers
but they said the Cuban Gove could not accept it. It was after
that that the money was reutrned,

9. How did he get out when he did? Through the efforts of*Gabrie} -

YGARCIA Marquez, a Mexican novelist and reporter in Mexico “ityvane -
ta good Briend of CASTiO.and other high Cuban leaders sand of Subject.
fand his wife, Subect's wife and GARCIA's wife are particularly

close, as are GARCIA's wife and Subject's children,

10, Subject's wife had contacted many people, promient people in

an effort to bring about Subject s release but had had no luck until
the GARCIA's went to work’on it. In early November (he thinks) of
1977 GARCIA and wife visited Cuba and srent sometime with CASTRO,
GARCIA's wife allegedly told CASTRO that she had one important

favor to ask of him, to release a good firend of theirs who had by
then held for many years. CASTRO promised to do it immediately.
Howeyers by 11 Dec 77 Subject was $fi1] not out and?GARCIA, on his
BPE} En RabSSs ye see whist ne could PeaPSCPES,, *topped fizer

nn scent en recente Ae ne ect omni cl,



: i) Len)

. Carlos Rafael RODRIGUEZ, WHO RElayed the word to CASTRO and
the latter went to see GASCIA at his hotel room, He told

GAPCIA that he was sorry that he had not been able to release

same plane with GArCIA, The-Ge2 colonel wh

io drove him to
the airport was Colonel Manuel BLANCO

11.*GONZALES, who spoke only in Spanish, although understands
Some English and undoubtedly speaks some, £8 a menber of the
Committee which helped to negotiate the Felease of poli

12, Subject is working for himself ang has been for sometime;
is im the used clothes business, and exnects to rent a place

for his business on 8th Street, Sw, in the 5000 block, I

believe, at an early date, tie expects to cater pretty much

to Latin Americans traveling to the US, hopefully mostly

Venezuelans and Brazilians for they are the ones with the

MOSt spending money. He's already sold to many of then, has

& good many friends and contacts in Venezuela, and believes

that he'll get a lot of business from Latin America, He has

a friend who is prepared to make a $10,000 loan, and a bank

has agreed to finance him to the tune of $20,000 and it']2

take about $30,000 to steck his business adquately, He can

and will get short term credit from some of his suppliers but

will probably be limited to 60 to 90 days. He's very optimistic

about the future, appears in good health, :although somewhat over

xgight, and his wife works, The works in the office for a Puerto
“ican packing company,

13. Suv§ect w as nost appreciative for the offer of a physical
‘examination, and he knows ‘that he has no wane:

. the Agency, Kevertheless, he probably is expecting sone finaancial
“Compensation for his time in Drison, although this was. never
mentioned specifically, Tidbits of info Provided by him on people
gn the long list, as well as on others and other subjects will

be or has been included in other reports,

i
i
i

{
{
i

