# 104-10221-10220

## Page 1

104-10221-10220

In Reply, Pleaso Mojor 10

File No

ENITEN STATES DEPARTSET ME JUSTIC" OBA 3'1529

FADEHAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Mani, Florida

• APR 1 0 1963

CONFIDENTIAL

EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

(FRENTE ESCAMBRAY)

(CUBAN ANTI-COMMUNIST ARMY)

(ESCAMBRAY FRONT);

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

REGISTRATION ACI - CUBA;

NZUTRALITY MATIER.

On April 4, 1963, Ml I-l, who has furnlohed re-

11ablo Inforestion In the past, obtained information from

a sourco who is involved with Amoricon criminal elementa

In Now. York and Miami, who obtained Information from an

unknown source, whose rellability is unknown, but uno 1o

1n a position to furnish soma information concerniaz chia

201-143956

It was reported that in the lato evening hours of

April 3, 1953, Frank Anthony Sturgls, also known 43 Frank

110:n1, on Averican soldier of fortune involved in Cuban

suvolucionary activities, roportedly stated that until re-

contly, the "Violyn III" had been located in Naplea, Florida,

under Florin's control. Florint continued that an inflitra-

tion a1so1os was planned by Florini and Evello Dugue (matro-

nynic, nice unknown), vicrein Duque and his men would Infiltrate

Into Cuss to engage in guerrilla activities agalnst the cubai

CONETDENTIAL

GROUP 1

Excluded from aucomatic

downgrading and

declassifiestion.

211-242256

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONPIDeRTIAL

RE: EJE CITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISIA

coverment, and Florini would later supply them by ali-

plene from the United States.

Duque was described as a

Cuban exile residing in Miaul, Florida, who 18 active in

enti-Castro activities.

Florins claimed to have arranged for the uae

of rice boat 'V1olyn III," and nade the arrangemente with

the omer, Alcrander I: Rorke, Jt., free lance newspaper

can, tao has been poriodically involved In Cuban revolu

ticaary scilvities.

Rorke agreed to allow Fiorini use of

the bout 1f, in return, Rorke's organization, U. S. Ereedom

rightera, would receivo credit for any succosa accomplished

by Florial.

Later, this boat was sovad to. Marco, Florida,

on the Gulf of loxico side de rlorida.

Thereafter, Rocke

changed his mind and wanted the boat back, but Florlai

clanced he did not know where the boat was, or where it had

zone.

Sono tine later, the "flolyn IlI" and anothar large

ise left the Florida area.

at cost Samos and Jerry.

acter tho "Violya III" left fron comewhere on the

Frank Plorini, along with eirplane

1lot Bill Johnson and Jorry Buchanan, an Anerican adventurer

zanted a small boat

and wet the "Violyn III" and the othor

Large boat et a2a.

The small boat loaded on to the two laI-

der buats gasoline and food. Jerry Buchanan, at that time,

CONPIDENTIAL

-2-

---

## Page 3

14-00000

"::

CONFIDERITIAL

RE: EJERCITO: CUBANO ANTICOMUNISIA:

boardc. the "Violyn III." The two larger boats then

departed for an unknown destination.

Florini and Johnson

Icturned to Florida in the suall boat.

191 T-2

On April 3, 1963, MI T-3, who has furniched sellable

Inforcation in the past, obtained sose information from an

untested cource with contacts in the Bahawas, who obtained

Incornatic: from an unidentified person. He advioed that it

was acported that several hours aftes lorint was arrested

on Norman Key, Brltish suthorities in the Bahamas stopped and

boarded the "Violyn ILI" and arrested sone thirteen Cubans

and Jocky Buchanan who were aboard.

Ca AprIl 4, 1963, M1 T-3 advlaed that the Britlsh

cuthorities released the "Violyn IIl" and the crew, and 1a-

ccructed them to proceed

The other boat which

originally accompanted the "ylolyn III," name of thia boat

unlown, escaped and was being sought by the Eritish and the

United States Coast Guard.

CONFIDENTIAL

- 3-

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

RE: EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICONUNISTA

On April 4, 1963, Florint reportedly claimed that

ho had been in radio contact with the above-mentioned uniden

tified boat, and it was tied up at an Island in the Bahamas,

exact location of which was not disclosed. The boat was re-

portedly camouflaged

and heard the U. S. Coast Guard planes

flying above in an effort to locate it.

Florind claimed he

could supply this unidentified boat with fuel and food, if

Icquested by this boat, and that he had available an Aero

Connander alrplane In Miami and two fast powerboats located

sonchnore north of Miami.

It was not known what manner of

radio comrunication was used by Florint to contact the un

identified boat.

On April 4, 1963, local newspaper, radio stations

and telovision stations in Miami, Florida, reported that the

"Violyn III" had departed from Nassau and was enroute to

Mlant with a U.S. Coast Guard escort.

Miami Attorney Charles

R. Ashmann made press announcements that the crew of the "Vio

lyn III" would not return to the

Usited States.

In the carly morning hours of April. 5, 1963, MI T-3

advisod that Ashmann clained the "Violyn III" would rendez-

vous with the other unidentified boat and would complete its

Infiltration mission to Cuba.

On April 5, 1963, MI-4, a representative of another

Governaent agency, advised that on the afcernoon of April 4,

1953, the "Violyn III"' left Nassau, Bahamas, on a general course

for the United States, and at that date was

at the north tip of

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

14-00000

DBA 37829

CONFIDENTIAL

RE: EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

Andros Island in the Bahamas. Because the "Violyn III"

was in shallow water, the U. S. Coast Guard discontinued

Its surveillance of the "Violyn IlI" by boat, and the sur

veillence was taken over by U. S. Coast Guard aircraft.

At about 8:20 P.M., the "Violyn III" turned off its running

lights and had not

been seen by the Coast Guard since that

time.

Mi1 I-4 Icported that there is a Sigma-type Cuban

fishing boat which was stopped near Williams Key off the

coast of Andrews Island on April 5, 1963. MMI-4 Bald this

Sigra boat was possibly the boat that was supposed to rendez

vous with the

iviolynn Ill' for an infiltration mission 1n-

to Cuba.

There is an alrplanc landing strip at Williams Key.

which could not be used because someone had placed a great

quaatity of rocks and driftwood on the runway.

On April S, 1963, Mr. Chester A. Holsh, Chief,

Investigations Branch, Immigration

and Naturalization Service,

iami, advised that the "Violyn III" had just arrived at the

seawall, Key Biscayne, Miami:

The Cubans

aboard were to be

taken by. INS authorities to INS detention facility at Opa

Locka, Florida, where Interviews were to be conducted, and

eny Unitc. Statas citizens on boid vere to be taken by INS

authorities to INS Headquarters in Miaul, where these 1ndi-

viduals would be interviewed for any possible violations of

Federal law concerning U. S. passport regulations.

Property of 2bI - This document is loaned to you by

the MI, and neither It nor its conteats are to be distributed

outside the agency to which loaned.

CONFIDENTIAL

-57-

---

## Page 6

UNITED STATES DEPANTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Pleso Refrie

File Ne

2P

WAOMINGTON 8S D.C.

April 8, 1963

MICROFILMED

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

APR 1 8 1963

The "Violyn III," a boat utilized by loos. bacha.sEB

Anticommunist Army, Escanbray Front, In Its antl-Castro

activitles, was recently captured by British authorities

together with a number of anti-Castro raiders.

The boat

and the anti-Castro raiders have subsequently returned to

Miami, Florida.

In this connection an informant who has furnished

rellable Information in the past on April 4, 1963, advised.,:.:...

that during the previous evening Frank Anthony Sturgls, who,::a

1s more commonly known as Frank Florini, a former Castro

supporter and an American soldier of fortune who has been

engaged in anti Castro endeavors since his break with the

Castro regime, atated that until recently the "Violyn 1II"

Evello Dugue, leader of the Cuban Anticommunist Army, Escambray

Front, whereby buque and his men would infiltrate into Cuba

and would later be supplier by Fiorini by plane from the

United States.

Florini stated he had arranged wich Alexander I.

Rorke, Jro, a free-lance newspaperman who has been Involved

in anti-Castro activitles, for the use of the "Violyn 1Il."

Rorke permitted the use of this boat but stated that he

wanted his organiration, the U. S. Freedon righters, to

receive some of the credit for any successes achieved.

Korke subsequently changed his mind and wanted the boat back

but Florint claimed that it had departed and that he did not

know where it was.

il

devilst.

019-9-9/

CS COPY

901247256

---

## Page 7

LLA 37025

iNTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

Sometime later the "Violyn III" and nothge boat

Theft the florida area. On the day of the departure of these

vessels, Florini, 8111. Johnson, a pilot, and Jerry Buchanan,

an adventurer, rented a small boat and made a rendezvous with

the other two boats at sea.

Buchenan transferred to one of

these two vessels and gasoline and food supplies. which had

been on the small boat were loaded aberd these two vessels.

Florint and Juhnson then returned to Florida in the rented

911-25184.2

boat and the other two continued on their way.

221-25/312

Subsequently Florin1, Johnson and Jose Marie

#Conzalez Hernandez, a Cuban radio operator, proceeded to

Nassau, Bahamas, rented a plane and flew to Norman Key in

the Bahamas.

Immediately thereafter this group was arrested

by British authoritles who sent them back to Miani, Florida.

Several hourg after Fiorini was arrested on Norman Key, the

British

stopped and boarded the "Violyn III" and arrested

Buctanan and a number of Cubans who were aboard.

On

April 4, 1963, the British released the "Violyn III" and ito

crew with instructions that they should proceed to Miami.

The other

boat escaped.

On April 4, 1963, Florini claimed he had been in

radio contact with the boat that had escaped and that it wan

then docked at an island in the Bahemas. Florini did not

disclose the exact location of the boat but claimed he could

supply it with tood and fuel if requested and that he hed an

alrplane and two fast power boats

available in the Miant area.

=2=

....

.....

- 5r-tv.r 0104000494 d

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Modo sottri

ricimise

10:1

: C:

2242256

10'"

Caicco.

25,

1633

ispascenacciva oda

552

nees antolmagendo inveccigacions,

sire

kavirg

s.

asisates

Joa Zak 2802942.

1= 65 So 3a m0sed Da Sal F20821= 10 da Amarican soldica.

no seun involvad in Cuben rovolucionasy

== 6:00

O: Manch 25, 1985, = 1ãù Boos 109g

to rascavous wich

camaus to okase audendo Provincò io Gusais, couth Couss.

Paio docilla

siis

1:

Cgiares

ungano da Cubo le badeg

'ads

62223632556

2his. Operation

Perdiang Maide

...s

10vo100 dicaurad

schia

Escootuce

122S2:

siid

hed face

.co.

mad C2a:0d S080r AVELA.

267043

sii Quane cháp za cù aa

tours to Casa.

This casset is co

covon dho caduci purpoco di dio bonike Which do 6o puscokoro

122822

Distici da

-unomione congrecang

---

## Page 9

14-00000

Primente Chim.

: 639875068 065

222262263

ises,

derakaass

7c.

Soroch,

Tino

raincidice Riacala

Unicod Fione of Xactoral Ribaracion,

buscass

S3=s

ino 055

2110.2:0.

17ani

4-047

card

toda buscadass

Cisano sid

maceressad

sugandes

cad

bae:

ating Dland 20

462030 Coord

descart

to piass

2993

Sacra

C:52n0

chas

22220

"is comarcs

Concidades

como Vict

aViso Duore, coon chough do de on dadondty

cabean ony arauck on

incanace trovince.

S3 7333

-2 -

---

## Page 10

14-00000

=•°

370+0

S: 32-2592 6768 C 206: 25, 252

"':s

-São c0o05i09 t0 conciolo.

saias?

Vai sáviosa cane do soma 2o can Caison Seases

daguen ga

2088

225802=aa

cion bas

.9g0c-0é0-5 1000 Guba s

÷ 12d 0010

sacas

arraintes

dá metros do dos tes

correase 250

0uned.

a 3s

139A33

---

