# 104-10193-10065

## Page 1

104-10193-10065

29 NON 6e

• DIRECTOR

MASH

Wi 91

(MR

caP,

/ADO? /A,

•CLASSIFIEU MESSAGE

SHAM

Ris, LIP

WH NOT TRUEO 2042-29 NOT 60).

s/c 2

30 NOV :960

tilL

TEA

POUTING

5

5 07

NOV 30 0012Z 60

Vot Chen

1 - 24s

PRIORi:

Namul Hair

201-

IN 49540

F778

sir.

PRITY DIS INSO MAVA CITE CASH 1233

JINET

RES A. YASH 1763

(INH5320

8.

MASH 1855

(1047602)

6 01813668 (04T 96975)

LO ORLANDO ALVAREZ SASQUIS, MASH CONTACT WITH MAO FOR PA MATTERS,

TELEPHONEO ENZEL LATE 28 NOU STATING MANOLO. RAY AND AMCHIRO-I DESIRED

MESTING SCONSST. MEETING HELO EARLY MORVING 29 NOV.

2. MESTING ABRUPT, DISPUTIVE, AND AGRINDiGIOUS. ONLY SUBJECT PAY

WID ANCHIRPI WISHED DISCUSS WAS CAPOTS/ISLE OF PINES OPERATION

ALTHOUGH ENZEL TRIED BROADEN TALK TO INCLUDE ARMS DELIVERIES.

RADIO OPERATORS, SABOTAGE TRAINING, ETC.

3. AMÓHIRO-I CHARGED CO WITH FAILURE TO PERFORM RE DELIVERY OF

ISLE OF PINES MAOS AND MEMORY BRIEFING CODE PER RES A. WHEN CO

REMINDSO HIT HAD SAID COULD NOT MAKE TIMELY DELIVERY, AMCHIRP-1

• seen

REPLICO TO ERESCE "DELIVERY HÃD BEEN ARRANGED AS PROOF OF OUTSIDE

ASSISTHUCE ALO TO BACK UP MY CAMCHIRP-I'S PROMISES OF AID WITHIN 35

MGAS AS PRONISED BY YOU CENZELI." CO COUNTEREO THATS

A. SO FAR AS HE WAS CONCERIED ANY BURDENS OF PROOF TO ANYONE

RE CAPABILITIES TO PERFORY WERE DU TYR ARP, NOT ON THE BEVDER GROUP.

SEGMET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

_Rue

---

## Page 2

CLASCIFLED NESSAGE

SECRET

MASH 1980

2

39540

PAGE

SO 19DTR NO CIPCUASTAICES COULO ARCHIZ-I HAVE CONSTRUCO AVYTUINS

CO MAD SATO AS A PROMISE OF ASSISTAICE

IN 36 HORS

CO IF #EMIODI HAD REALLY INTENDRO DELIVERY

S'LY FOR "PR005

AND IE ARCMIROL DAD INTENDED FORUARD A PROMISE OF SO HOUR SI0,

CO WAS MIST AS HASPY DELIVERY MAD NOT BEEY TECIUISALLY POSSIBLE.

SO HAVING TATE ASOVE FLAT ASSATIONS, CO TRIED SOFTEN THEM WITH

EXPLATATIDNS CE TIMING, PROBLEMS OF "CRASH" ONS, SECURITY

CONSIDERATIONS, PROTECTION OF ASSETS, ETC: NONE OF WHICH MAD MUCH.

NO WITH CO UNSURE AS TO REASON MESTING REQUESTED.

SO ONLY EXPLAYATION CO CAI OFFER WAS THAT, PERFORYANCE WAS BEING

SIVEN BY ANCHERR FOR RAY SENSFIT TO PAS PROVS SCHETRING UNSTATED

OR &B) GET SELF GSF HOOK FOR SOMETHING.

Serio

касо

END OF MESSAGE

силна Hep TRies us;

do me sout to doins their

intercial of.

REPROOLITION BY

OTHER TILAN THE ISSUING OFFIBE IS PROHIBITEO

---

