104-10431-10426}

/

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

DRAFT
May 1992

9:

By Cleveland Cc. Cram

NOTE: Final version will have proper

page breaks, etc.

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

5

199:



13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Foreword

The review of counterintelligence literature, 1975 -
1992, which follows is not meant to include every book
published concerning espionage and/or counterintelligence
from the period 1975 until 1992. The object of this study
is to focus on a relatively small selection of books that
were influential because of the views they expressed and /,
theft reasonable degree of historical acourae Sehey host ly
concentrate on the major counterintelligence issues of the
| period and aéie highlight@@-By the vieys of James Angleton
and Anatole Golitsyn, which from 1962 were a
compelling force in Western counterintelligence services.
{the scope of the study is largely limited to books about the
" american, British, and Canadian intelligence and security
services although it in some instances touches on countries
_ of Western Europe such as France, West Germany, Norway, etc.
rit ple “Recent books such as Corson and Trento's Widows aracexciaated—
because they are not reputable by even the generally low (hp

standards of jiféé counterintelligence writing. Other works,

: ;
such as fron Kessier! s {he [pavie-Wise's the NS

a
Spy Who Got Away,’ are exetmmed because some parts of their
stories are f4¢taa}y doubtful and better surveys of these

x

GC complicated and sensitive events reside in the CIA records.

Sst y y on the other hand, no studies exist on Angleton's efforts in uh
NY & retirement to spread this propaganda’via such writers as ne
3 es Epstein. Nor has ther$/beeM any analysis)done of nowt many ’

‘ v A, Secrets of the British services became public knowledge,

z q iN , ranging from the Blunt case to the secret inquiry into sir

38 Roger Hollis as putative Soviet spy. _As.thereare

S Cwelan

ie
inetructive"lase6he~in these evéiits, a review of what exists
ef
in the public domain and how it got there fagfh be helpful to

‘Leak ered

andl
v ba & utd

2
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Uy

ut


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

counterintelligence managers of the future who wish to avoid
some of the errors of the past.
ALIST OF BOOKS OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE INTEREST
{chronological order)

‘1977 - orchids for Mother by Aaron Latham. A novel about
Angleton. NOT RECOMMENDED.

\Ag78 - Honorable Men by William Colby. chapter on

Angleton's dismissal is RECOMMENDED.

1978 - Legend: The Secret World of Lee Harvey Oswald by
Edward Jay Epstein. NOT RECOMMENDED; A SUMMARY

appears in this study.

,A979 - The Man Who Kept the Secrets: Richard Helms and the
CIA by Thomas Powers, NOT RECOMMENDED as portions

that deal with counterintelligence are inaccurate.

(Cr979 = sont ied for Russia by

Andrew Boyle. A SUMMARY appears in this study.

V 1980 - Wilderness of Mirrors by David Martin. A classic
strongly RECOMMENDED; a SUMMARY appears in this
study.

1980 - The Spike by Arnaud de Borchgrave and Robert Moss. A

novel about Angleton. NOT RECOMMENDED.

Laser ~ Shadrin: The Spy Who Never Came Back by Henry Hurt.
Despite many errors it is RECOMMENDED. A SUMMARY
appears in this study.

1981 - Their Trade is Treachery by Chapman Pincher.
RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

3
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

\

1982 - For Services Rendered: James Leslie Bennett and the
RCMP Security Service by John Sawatsky. RECOMMENDED

and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

- AMatter of Trust: MI-5, 1945-72 by Nigel West.

RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

- New Lies for old by Anatole Golitsyn. RECOMMENDED

only to learn what Golitsyn thought; no SUMMARY
appears in this study.

- The FBI/KGB War: A Special Agent's Story by Robert

gd. Lamphere and Tom Shachtman. STRONGLY RECOMMENDED

and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

/se7 ~ Spycatcher: the Candid Biography of a Senior
Intelligence Officer by Peter Wright with Paul
Greengrass. RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this
study.

y’ 1988 - The Spycatcher Trial by Malcolm Turnbull.
RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

1988 ~ The Spycatcher Affair by Chapman Pincher.

RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

1988 - Deception: The Invisible War Between the KGB and the
SIA by Edward Jay Epstein. NOT RECOMMENDED but a
SUMMARY appears in this study.

J 1988 - The Storm Birds: Soviet Post-War Defectors by

Gordon Brook-Shepherd. STRONGLY RECOMMENDED, and a
SUMMARY appears in this study.

4
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

pases - Molehunt: The Full story of the Soviet Spy in MI-5
7 by Nigel West. RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in
this study.

1989 - Widows: Four American Spies, the Wives They Left
Bebind and the KGB's Crippling of American
Intelligence by Corson and Trento. Definitely NOT

RECOMMENDED and NOT SUMMARIZED in this study.

Vaige1 - A eton: e CIAt
Master Spy Hunter by Tom Mangold. RECOMMENDED and a
SUMMARY appears in this study.

Vv is92 = i or 7:

Shattered the CIA by David Wise. RECOMMENDED and a
SUMMARY appears in this study.

5
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Introduction

The year 1974 was a watershed in literature about the
cra. felceto that time had been few books
critical of the Agency and they had been by outsiders,
usually professional journalists such as Wise and Ross.

Most books had been $4 neutral or even positive,
especially those written by former Agency officials such as
Allen Dulles and Lyman Kirkpatrick. But in 1974 a
disgruntled former Agency employee, Philip Agee, published
his highly critical book, Inside the Company: CIA Diary.

He was followed by others in quick succession: J. B. smith,
John Stockwell, Victor Marchetti (with J. D. Marks), and R.
W. McGehee--placing highly confidential information in the
public sone ny nabs By tees ee made their disclosures
about subjectsVof which they had special knowledge gr
iptst6at, but the cumiative effect was to breach the walls
of confidentiality Wiis had protected Agency operations and
personnel. Although the net effect was damaging, especially
in the case of Agee where his efforts were directed at
revealing the identities of officers serving abroad under
cover, this general scatter shot approach, while
distressing, did not reveal information about the most
sensitive operations, namely, those directed against the

main target--the Soviet Union and its intelligence organs.

In the mid-seventies this changed with the publication
of a series of magazine articles authored mainly by Edward
ad. Epstein, a New York writer, which culminated with the
publication of his book in 1978 called Legend. The
articles, but especially the book, publicized for the first
time a series: of clashes within the Agency feotn the cI
Staff and the Soviet Division) concerning the bona fides of
a defector from the KGB named Yuriy Nosenko. Epstein's

articles and his book contained so much detailed information

6
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

hb

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

about sensitive operations by the CIA and the FBI that it
was generally agreed Epstein had a willing and knowledgeable
source, either a serving officer (which was thought
doubtful) or a retired person 6£@ sufficiently senior
@msitiow that he had wide knowledge of operations against
the Soviet, target both overseas and in the "U.S." Although
tron’ ‘t¢ 1978 onward Epstein aanittcd on eccasion he spoke
with James Angleton, the retired former Chief of the CI
Staff, ne never admitted Angleton was his source. In fact,
Epstein, wisely perhaps, never sourced his articles nor his
book, leaving the reader in the dark as to how he came upon
such rare nuggets of sensitive information. Then in 1988,
with Angleton dead, Epstein in a new book called Deception
admitted that from 1977 onward he had obtained large amounts
of highly classified information from Angleton, N.S. Miler,
Tennent H. Bagley and others who shared Angleton's beliefs.

When Angleton was dismissed by,DCI William Colby in
late 1974, he had no thought of what he would do in his
retirement. For the feifowmng six months he spent part of
his time at Langley, assisting the new CI Staff by
introducing them to such persons as his defector friend,
Anatole Golitsyn. After a few months it became clear to
Angleton that he really had been dismissed and his future
with CIA was finished. The whole matter was a terrible
blow; he became embittered and at first withdrew into
alcohol. But quite soon people began to seek him out and he
began to formulate some ideas about the future. As he got
more attention from media people, he began to cultivate a
method of playing them off one against another, planting an
idea here and there amongst them. He changed his luncheon
venue from a local restaurant to the more politically
congenial atmosphere of the Army-Navy Club. one~idéa~
Angleton paveionesicaatl to counterattack fy the

Agency and, in particular, the new CI staff by which he

a has
would prove Clty welowre their new approach ara indict then

7
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

ee

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

for negligence of duty. This task was given to his loyal
aide, N.S. Miler. Miler took on the job but found he was
his own researcher as well as secretary. Foreseeing a dim
future of virtual servitude, he took his family and withdrew

to remote New Mexico.

Angleton's activities in this period, while not
neglecting the idea of KGB penetration, focused more
immediately on his strong belief in the threat from the KGB
of deception and disinformation. To support this thesis he
continually raised the issue of Nosenko. Ag, sa0a Lath

<tnft caught fire amongst some of his supporters and led to a
sort of cottage industry in which many academics and think
tank specialists propagated the theory. Oddly, however,
Angleton's allies in Great Britain took a different line.
There they concentrated on KGB penetration largely because
events threw up some exceptional examples, such as Sir
Anthony Blunt. Because of the so-called Cambridge "Ring of
Five," public attention was more easily caught by the idea
of moles in Her Majesty's government. This eventually led
to much embarrassment for the Thatcher government,

culminating in the “Spycatcher" trial in Australia in 1986.

8
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
The American (and Canadian) Scene

Aetiéng after his long suffering but devoted aide,
"scotty" Miler, decamped to New Mexico, a young writer
interested in CIA contacted Angleton, Aaron Latham holds a
doctorate in literature from Princeton and in 1975 was
editor of New York magazine. He was attracted to Angleton
because of the latter's association with Ezra Pound and
other American poets. A two-hour initial call to Angleton
resulted in luncheon and visits to Angleton's home and
orchid sheag. Latham wanted to write about the CIA and
claims he took the fiction route on the advice of Victor
Marchetti. Whatever the case, the result was a novel called
Orchids for Mother published in 1977. The novel is heavily
loaded with atrocious sex, but the main theme is about an
old ex-CIA officer fired by the Director over differences in
policy. The dismissed CIA man (Angleton) decides he must
rid the Agency of this DCI, obviously meant to be Colby,
which he accomplishes by hiring an assassin to kill him (the
old veteran) and then adroitly places the blame on the
Director, thus assuring the latter will be accused of
murdering his antagonist. The novel portrays Mother (the
curious name Latham gives Angleton, which he lifted from a
book by Miles Copeland) as a genius wasted by his dismissal
from service to suit the ambition of a grey bureaucrat whose
security as well as common sense is much in doubt. It is a
singularly vicious work. It did not sell well. Mrs.
Angleton called the book "garbage" and claimed her husband

never read it.

In the summer of 1977 Angleton developed a new forum
for his ideas when he and like-minded associates organized
the Security and Intelligence Fund (SIF) which was intended
to defend the US security and intelligence organizations and
incidentally raise money for the defense of two FBI officers

then under indictment by the Carter administration. In this

9
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

endeavor, Angleton was on surer ground. For starters, he
hada the support of the large number of FBI retirees as well
as many from CIA. This was the period when the Pike and
Church committees in the Congress were in full cry and a
number of ex-intelligence people who believed Congress had
gone too far were rallying a defense. (David Phillips was
also starting the Association of Former Intelligence
Officers.) The drive by Angleton was Yeny successful; over
$600,000 was raised and six months after its founding SIF
was reported to have more than 17,000 members. Angleton was
made chairman with his friends in senior positions. But
eur soon after, the US Attorney General decided not to
pursue the prosecution of the FBI men and the reason for SIF
more or less evaporated. yeventhete pxleietontconvertedeie
into a forum by which he spread information about what he
saw as various forms of Soviet deception and it continued
into the next decade until, after Angelton's death and the

coming of glasnost, it withered away.

The publication of Legend in 1978 provided enormous
stimulus to the deception idea by suggesting the Soviet
defector, Yuriy Nosenko, had been sent by the KGB to provide
a cover story for Oswald. Epstein had made a small
reputation with an earlier book on the Warren Commission
called Inguest, which was generally well received because it
pointed out some obvious inadequacies in the Warren

Commission report. In Legend, Epstein wrote what in effect

were two books: one focused on Oswald's Marine career in
Japan, his time in Russia and then his return to America;
while the second portrayed Nosenko as playing a key role-in
a major KGB deception operation intended to provide cover
for Oswald (and the Soviet government) as well as to negate
the effects of Golitsyn's revelations. As so much
classified information could only have come from a person or
persons with intimate knowledge of the Nosenko case, blame

for the leakage naturally focused on Angleton and his

10
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

supporters. It came as no surprise when ten years later
(and after Angleton's death) Epstein admitted his sources to
have been Angleton, Bagley, Miler, and other supporters.
Despite some negative reviews such as George Lardner's in
The Washington Post, which denounced the book as
“essentially dishonest," the book sold well and was very
important in spreading Angleton's ideas of a super KGB
manipulating American society and politics via its

sophisticated deception apparatus.

The theme of Legend is extended in a novel which
appeared in 1980 called The Spike by Arnaud de Borchgrave
and Robert Moss. De Borchgrave, soon to be editor of the
new Washington Times and Moss, then editor of "The Blue
Economist," were close friends and admirers of Angleton,
whose conspiracy theories largely jibed with their own.
Moss had been spreading bogus Angleton propaganda in his
sheet for some time, an example being his claim Golitsyn had
provided the lead to Philby. This caught the eye of then
DCI Turner, who inquired of the CI Staff. The latter
replied from solid knowledge that Golitsyn could only be
credited for an assist on Vassal and none on Philby or
Blunt.

The low quality and general crudeness of theme in The
Spike exceeds that even of the Latham novel. Briefly, it
told the story of a young liberal taken in by leftists who
came to realize his error thanks to timely guidance received
from an elderly former CIA counterintelligence officer who
had been fired by a Director obviously acting on the
Kremlin's directions. Moscow's secret designs are revealed
by a KGB high level defector whose escape is managed by MI-6
because the CIA is so penetrated it could not be trusted
with the mission. The KGB defector then uncovers the Soviet
agents in the White House, CIA and elsewhere and the wise

old counterintelligence chief, obviously meant to be

11
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Angleton, saves America. Although hard to believe, the book

was an alternate Book-of-the-Month Club selection.

§

qe e fer,\1980/was not entirely a year of wine and roses
for the Angletonians, Ad ae (raz epae"Yootiiigemess of
Mirrors appeared, authored a by David Martin. Now considered
a classic of intelligence literature, Martin spent over two
years interviewing CIA retirees, including Angleton himself
who at first favored Martin with many secrets but later cut
him off when he learned Martin was consorting with some CIA
people who were critical of the ex-CI Staff chief. one of
these was Clare E. Petty who had worked on Angleton's staff
and had concluded he was either a giant fraud or a KGB
agent. Martin originally intended to publicize this view
via an article in Newsweek, but it was dropped when Angleton
threatened legal action. However, Martin did publish his
book that exposed Golitsyn as a not important defector who
made more trouble than he was worth, suggested Nosenko was
genuine and punched many holes in the Angleton myth. It
proved a lengthy and denunciatory review by Epstein in The
New York Times as well as a long public statement by
Angelton claiming Martin had robbed him of his phrase
“wilderness of mirrors" when in fact Angleton had himself

lifted it from a poem by T.S. Eliot.

| jowever,, events’were weakening Epstein's faith in his
master. In 1981 Mrs. Thatcher was forced by the publication
of a book called Their Trade is Treachery to admit that Sir
Roger Hollis, the former Director General of MI-5, had been
investigated after allegations were received he was a Soviet
agent. Mrs. Thatcher stoutly asserted that a high-level
investigation of these charges found them false. Some
months later, Epstein managed to obtain an interview with
the defector, Michel Goleniewski, who had become convinced
he was the last of the Romanovs, but otherwise remained

quite a sensible person. In the interview Epstein asked if

12
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

the defector thought Hollis was a KGB mole, an idea much

supported by Angleton. The defector replied negatively,

then listed precisely all the Soviet agents MI-5 had
apprehended due to the information he had provided. "If the
KGB had had a mole at the head of MI-5, you can be sure al

these men would somehow have escaped," he commented dryly.

A further confusion of the issues occurred in 1979-80
period with the publication of a series of articles written
by one Joe Trento, then a reporter for a daily in
Wilmington, Delaware. Trento, probably from Petty, learned
Cleveland Cram was writing a history of the Angleton years
in counterintelligence and from that slight fact launched a
number of charges against Angleton including some which
included largely erroneous information about the Nosenko and
Loginov cases. As Cram had several times interviewed
Angleton in connection with the history, Cram contacted him
to assure him the leak to Trento had come from others.
Angleton's response to the Trento articles was to attack
Admiral Turner. The Trento articles continued for some time
and were an embarrassment to the Agency, but they did not
affect the writing of the history. At any rate, Cram's
interviews of Angleton by this time were at an end mostly
because it had become increasingly evident Angleton's

judgment and veracity could no longer be relied upon.

The next book of consequence to appear, which was
associated with Angleton, was Henry Hurt's Shadrin in 1981.
Hurt had worked on Legend as an assistant to Epstein.
During this stint Hurt became aware of the Shadrin case and
began interviewing Mrs. Ewe Shadrin and her lawyer, Richard
Copaken. Hurt quickly sensed a rich story and the Reader's
Digest agreed to provide financial support for the project,
which began as a magazine article but quickly grew into a
book. The chief editor at this time for "Reader's Digest"

was Fulton oursler, a man of strong right-wing views and

13
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

much influenced by the Angleton-Epstein theories, which he
saw could be promoted by the Shadrin story while at the same
time condemning the new CI Staff for what he believed were
serious errors in their handling of the case. The inability
of the US authorities to provide an answer to the mystery of
Shadrin's disappearance had also provoked wide criticism.
The story not only revived the old Golitsyn-Nosenko
controversy but made it current by telling the story of the
appearance of a mysterious KGB man named "Igor" (codenamed

Kitty Hawk by the FBI).

There is little doubt kag that Angleton contributed
information to Hurt but so did a number of FBI people who
broke their oaths, talking more than their share. In sum,
much classified information was put in the public domain
that could not but have endangered the safety of the Soviet
named “Igor," assuming he was genuine, a matter on which
again Agency people divided, Angleton believing he was not,
while others thought his valuable information assured his
bona fides. The Hurt book, an interesting story, was
however, essentially a propaganda piece intended to benefit
Mrs. Shadrin, but its shrill attack on the Agency, the FBI,
and the new CI Staff was not helpful and the book's many

inaccuracies distorted an already confused situation.

A number of other books appeared during the early

1980's such as William cob See Honorable Men in which he
explains why he dismissed Angleton, Tom Powers' The Man Who
Kept the Secrets, which highly praised Angleton (a position
from which Powers has retreated), and a book by a Canadian,
John Sawatsky, on the Bennett case in Canada. The latter,
called For Services Rendered appeared in 1982. Bennett, a
long-time civilian employee of the RCMP Security Service,
was falsely impugned by Clare Petty, a major conspiracy
theorist, on Angleton's staff. It immediately ignited an

investigation, which could have been stopped by Angleton,

1
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

but instead he ren it impetus by suggesting the Mounties
consult Golitsyn. That sealed Bennett's doom and brought
his dismissal from the service although no substantial
evidence existed against him and he passed his polygraph
tests. The case tore the Mounties apart and furthermore
gave ammunition to those who arguédthe Security service
should be removed from the RCMP. Within a few years Canada
had a civilian security service. Sawatsky's book drew

considerable attention in Canada but little in America.

In 1988, one year after Angleton's death, Epstein
produced his book called Deception. In the years between
Legend and Deception Epstein had become something of a
specialist on the subject of Soviet disinformation and

deception. These twin subjects, along with “active -

measures" (to which they are related), whét occupied a
number of scholars and writers during the 1980s. In this
they were assisted by the testimony of several Soviet
defectors, including the indefatigable Golitsyn who added
his own volume to the field called New Lies for 01d, whose
turgid prose had to be endlessly rewritten before it was

rendered readable.

Epstein's book Deception, like its predecessor, is
really in two parts. ‘The second part in which he describes
various deceptions practiced throygh the centuries can be
ignored as it says nothing new. / ty is the first 105 pages
that are of interest, wherein he repeats the old theories
about Nosenko, and then in the section "Acknowledgments"
names all his sources for the years past: Angleton, Bagley,
Miler, Sullivan, etc. He also indicates in this part that
his informants understood clearly, they were providing him
with classified information. (ft/is an astonishing set of
revelations. (It is difficult to avoid the feeling that this
book is Epstein's last hurrah, at least in the world of

intelligence. He senses with glasnost the days of the

15
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

conspiracists are numbered. ithe time to take the money

and run.

In 1991 an English writer, Tom Mangold, published his
biography of Angleton called Cold Warrior to which he
devoted three years of intensive work and $300,000 of Simon
and Schuster's money. Mangold has carefully sourced his
book, the research is impressive and AVibgaqy impeccable, and
the writing is good if a bit overwrought at times. But it
is far more a history of the CI staff for the last ten years
under Angleton's command than it is a story about the man
himself. As history it is largely accurate and fair
although the absence of a chapter on Israeli liaison
(chopped out by the editor) is unfortunate. The book was
the occasion of considerable commentary because Mangold
stated he had interviewed 208 CIA retirees, until it was
then noted that John Ranelagh, another English author, in
his book on the CIA had interviewed over 350 CIA retirees.
Mangold's conclusions that counterintelligence suffered
badly at Angleton's hands at the very time in the Cold war

when the Agency needed common sense and honesty most is well

made and backed by numerous examples.

Finally, it should be noted that a second book about
Angleton and the old CI Staff followed only ten months after
Cold Warrior. This book called Molehunt by the veteran
intelligence writer, David Wise, is also a well-researched
and smooth-reading volume concentrating largely on the hunt
for "Sasha," a Soviet agent Golitsyn claimed had played a
major role providing the Russians valuable information. It
was mainly from this search for the supposed mole within CIA
that a very few CIA officers had their careers damaged.

Because his sources did not possess complete knowledge of

the "Sasha" carn has presented a partially distorted

story. The complete story of the "Sasha" case resides in

Lf
the CIC archives re/Gerald Sidney Ross at Langley; for

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

various reasons, it remains a highly restricted issue.
Despite this minor misconception, for which the author
cannot be blamed, the Wise book is otherwise factually
correct and is another cautionary tale management should

bear in mind.

: by Edward

Jay Epstein; The Reader's Digest Press/McGraw-Hill Book

Company (New York, N.¥.), 1978--382 pages

Epstein is a Agi bright and able writer who took his

MA at Cornell and his doctorate in government at Harvard

(1972). He had made a name for himself with his book

Truth, done as his master's thesis at Cornell. As one of
the first serious works to expose the shortcomings of the
Commission, it sold well and made Epstein momentarily well
known. Epstein became aware of the Nosenko case through the
Reader's Digest, from which he became acquainted with James
Angleton. Their association flourished and Angleton became
Epstein's major source on Nosenko and the issues surrounding
him. Eventually The Reader's Digest sponsored Epstein's
research to the tune of $500,000. The book was a best
seller, projecting Epstein into the forefront of those who
were popular exponents of the ideas of Angleton. Following
the publication of Legend, Epstein wrote numerous articles
for New York magazine, Commentary, and other publications,
mostly--though not always--supportive of the Angleton

theories.

Legend is in fact two books: the first is about
Nosenko and the Angleton belief that he was part of a KGB
deception operation while the second is about Oswald's
service in the Marine Corps in Japan where it is suggested
he acquired information about the U-2 flights flown from the
airfield on which he was stationed as well as his later

17
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

sojourn in the Soviet Union. In brief, Epstein accepted
Angleton's conclusion that "Nosenko was a Soviet
intelligence agent dispatched by the KGB expressly for the
purpose of delivering disinformation to the CIA, FBI and
Warren Commission." In this scheme of things, Oswald, the
supposed lone assassin of President Kennedy,.likely was
working for the KGB; Nosenko said this was not true, but,
therefore, by the logic in Legend--it is. Oswald the ex-
Marine who defected to the USSR in 1959 and returned three
years later, had been living a "legend," a false biography
concocted for him by the KGB. Amongst these two stories is
a central theme, carefully stated but always present, which
is that the highest level of the intelligence community, and
certainly the CIA, is penetrated by a "mole" working for the
KGB. Although by 1978 this "mole" had not been found, the
best proof that he existed rested in the assertion of
Nosenko that he knew of no penetration, which contradicted
statements made to the contrary by a "Mr. Stone," who proves
to be Anatole Golitsyn. Epstein thus promoted the Angleton
twin beliefs of deception and penetration by the KGB which
was enshrined in his concept which came to be derisively

called "The Monster Plot."/ For CIA officers who wish to
learn the full story of the Nosenko case, it is recommended
they read the Fieldhouse/Snowdon study on Nosenko

commissioned by then DCI Casey in 1981.

In his source notes, Epstein is quite frank in stating
that his work is based on interviews with Nosenko and
retired CIA officers. He then lists a number including
Gordon Stewart, Admiral Turner, Richard Helms, James
Angleton and members of his CI Staff, William Sullivan and
Sam Papich of the FBI, and others connected with the
Golitsyn and Nosenko cases. Although Epstein is careful to
camouflage his sources by never quoting them verbatim or
ane) As) clear that a number of CIA officers had

provided immense amount of classified information to

18
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT



13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Epstein. This was leakage about hitherto most sensitive
Soviet cases on a scale the CIA had not before experienced.
However, because Epstein so cleverly refrained from pin
point sourcing, At was impossible to say exactly which CIA
and/or FBI officers “had leaked what. In 1989 the mystery
was resolved with the publication of a second book by
Epstein called Deception which dealt with the contentious
old cases, including Nosenko and Golitsyn again. But now
with his major source, Angleton, dead, Epstein revealed in
detail who his informants had been. This will be reviewed
in detail in the summary on Deception. Although the
presentation of these hitherto highly classified cases
shocked most observers, within a year the entire Nosenko
case was to be revealed to the public in detail via the U.S.

House Select Committee on Assassinations.

Legend sold better than might have been expected, and
the conspiracy buffs found it a welcome addition to the
growing literature on the Kennedy assassination. Many,
however, found the book confusing and its claims extravagant
and unsupported by factual evidence. One of the chief
critics was George Lardner of The Washington Post who wrote,
"What Epstein has written...is a fascinating, important, and
essentially dishonest book. Fascinating because it offers
new information about Oswald, about the KGB, and about the
CIA. Dishonest because it pretends to be objective, because
it is saddled with demonstrative errors and inexcusable
omissions, because it assumes the KGB always knows what it
is doing while the CIA does not. It is paranoid. It is

naive."

/ tomever, there is no question but that Legend set the
je for the debate which was to ensue in the media about
the Nosenko affair. It gave the Angleton and Bagley forces
an advantage by putting their argument adroitly if

dishonestly before the public. a was/not until David

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Martin responded with Wilderness of Mirrors that any

opposing view was to be presented in a coherent fashion.

Wilderness of Mirrors by David C. Martin; Harper and Row
(New York, N.¥.), 1980--228 pages

The best written and most informed book about CIA
operations against the Soviet target in the 1950's and
1960's with a penetrating and critical analysis of two of
the most prominent CIA officers involved, William K. Harvey
and James Angleton. Based upon countless interviews with
retired CIA officers, material acquired under FOIA, and from
open sources, including evidence derived from the House
Committee Hearings on Assassination, Martin crowds into 228

pages an exciting and generally accurate story.

Martin began his research with Angleton as his main

source in thelate 1970s, but then transferred his interest

to Harvey / | However, he progressed Martin became
convinced that while Harvey was an important figure, it was

Angleton around whom major co!

‘troyversy swirled; furthermore,
(epee was substantial evidenée that he had done severe
damage to CIA (especially to counterintelligence) and that
his forced resignation by CIA Director William-¢ had
been a necessary and long overdue action. /onare was )the
additional problem for Martin that Harvey was déad and his
wife refused to grant interviews nor would she give Martin
access to his official or private papers. Also, Harvey's
career had ended in 1967 and only a few years later he left
Washington for. good: Angigton, on the other hand, had
remained in full throttle yntil December 1974 when Colby
abruptly\ended his _career, jut even after that Angleton
continued a guerrilla action against the Agency, the new CI
Staff, his old antagonist, Colby, and launched a minor
propaganda campaign which he fueled with calculated leakage

playing one journalist off against another. one of those to

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

av

ae

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

whom he leaked in the early days was Martin until Angleton
discovered Martin was listening to other ex-Agency people
who did not swallow all of Angleton's theories, whereupon he
abruptly cut Martin off. Thus the last half of the book is
largely devoted to Golitsyn and the subsequent controversy
over Nosenko as well as such side diversions as the mole
hunt, KGB disinformation and other staples of Angleton's
diverse activities.

Martin did not name his sources nor did he footnote the
book, provide a bibliography or other academic
paraphernalia. In his forward he explained the purpose and
scope of the book and then was careful to note that one of
his principal sources was Angleton, "who was a marvelous
education in the ways of the CIA. Over time, he explained
to me its organization, its personnel, its modus operandi,
and its internal rivalries." It was from Angleton, Martin
continues, that he first heard some of the more colorful
stories about Bill Harvey. On the other hand, when Martin
called Harvey, the latter always hung up. Of course, after
Angleton heard that Martin was in touch with Clare Edward
Petty, who when working for Angleton had become suspicious
of his motives and began to speculate perhaps Angelton was
the mole they were searching for, Angleton refused to
continue this cooperation. Certainly Petty was one of the
generous contributors of information to Martin about
Angleton and the mole hunt, the Golitsyn-Nosenko
controversy, and many other subjects covered in the book.
Aside from Angleton, Martin identifies few other ex-CIA

sources although he admits they were legion.

The book was la: well received by the reviewers
mainly becaus¢“it Ors written intelligence yarn which
is also chock full of mostly accurate factual material. It
sold out quickly and went into a paperback edition by

Ballantine. Even that edition has long since sold out and

21
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

_

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

the book is now a collector's item. Most readers found it a
good story, but many found it especially interesting because
it focused on the enigmatic Angleton who by 1980 had become
a notorious figure thanks to Epstein's best-seller Legend,
which had lavished attention on Angleton as a
counterintelligence genius Wig nga den! wrongly dismissed at
the height of the Cold War, an act many hinted was close to
treasonable. Martin's book took a tain, different tack,
revealing Angleton as“self-centered, ambitious, and )
paranoid character with little regard for his Agency
colleagues or for simple common sense. That view prompted
the lone critic of the book, Epstein, to write a long reveiw
for the New York Times Book Review filled with vituperative
comments, loose charges and character assassination.
Angleton himself entered the fray with a three page public
statement denouncing Martin and accusing him of having
stolen his phrase Wilderness of Mirrors, which Angleton had
actually lifted from a poem by T.S. Eliot without
attribution. Martin had heard Angleton use it ad nauseam in
the midnight sessions and as he could discern no copyright
he appropriated the term as a compelling title for his book.

The book remains a.classic on Angleton and the period.

22
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

SHADRIN: The Spy Who Never Came Back by Henry Hurt; The
Reader's Digest Press/McGraw Hill (New York, N.¥.), 1981--

301 pages

Henry Hurt was a free lance writer and researcher for
Reader's Digest when he met Edward J. Epstein. He assisted
Epstein on the research for Legend and was heavily
influenced by Epstein's ideas on recent intelligence
matters, which the latter had absorbed from Angleton. In
1979 Hurt met Ewe Shadrin, the wife of the Soviet naval
defector who disappeared in Vienna in bpbenber) 1975 while on

a mission for the FBI and CIA. Soon afiter, Hurt met Ewe's

aggressive young lawyer, Richard Copaken)~and from this
association a plan developed for Hurt to write an article
for Reader's Digest about Ewe's missing husband. The
article rapidly grew into a book for Reader's Digest under
the direction of Fulton Oursler, a right-wida editor with a

strong enthusiasm for Angleton.

Copaken immediately took Hurt in hand and introduced
him to a number of key persons associated with the Shadrin
case, including several FBI officers while Epstein
introduced Hurt to Angleton. The latter seems to have been
responsible for facilitating a surprise visit by Hurt to
Golitsyn at his hideaway in upstate New York, an event which
shook Golitsyn.and also necessitated for security reasons
soon moving che adfecter from that place to a new location
in the southiand. An 1981 Shadrin's mysterious
disappearance on his ill-fated visit to Vienna remained
unsolved. Copaken and Mrs. Shadrin were increasingly
frustrated and confused by seeming US Government
indifference to their case, although in fact the agencies
concerned were doing all possible to extract any iota of
information from the Soviets while the latter remained
largely uncommunicative. In 1985 a Soviet defector, Vitali

23
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Yurchenko, had come over to the CIA, albeit briefly, and in
his debriefing provided the answer: Shadrin had been killed
accidentally by the KGB during his meeting with them in

Vienna.

Nikolai Fedorovich Artamonov was born in 1922 in the
USSR and chose the Soviet Navy for a career. He proved an
exceptional officer, a man of high intellect, great charm
and wide interests. With advanced training in nuclear
missiles, he was at age 27 the youngest destroyer captain in
the Red Navy; he was obviously destined for top command. In
1959 his ship was stationed in Gdynia, Poland, supporting a

training program for Indonesian naval officers. There

Artamonov met and fell_inteve-with swe Gora, a young dental
graduate fro wealthy Polish family. Marriage seemed
impossible given Ewe S antipathy for all Soviets

and the Red Navy's own restrictions, so he proposed

defection, she accepted, and in a daring and dangerous sion
escape they crossed the Baltic to sweden in a commandeerea~ /

naval launch.

He was brought to America under CIA auspices, and,being
fully cooperative, he proved a veritable gold mine to the
Office of Naval Intelligence. Under the new identity of
Shadrin, Nick and Ewe made remarkable progress. He took an
MA and a PhD in engineering; she opened a successful dental
practice. They made many new friends, mostly drawn from
high-ranking intelligence officials. But then problems
developed. As his debriefing drew to a close, he should by
any measure have been continued as a naval analyst or
consultant to ONI, but because of his background a general
security clearance was refused. He was finally assigned to
a unit of former defectors serving as translators in the new
Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA). The job and the people
who worked with him were below his level; Shadrin was

understandably distressed but he stayed the course.

4
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

This situation was radically altered in 1966 with the
arrival in Washington of a KGB officer named in the book as
Igor (code named Kitty Hawk by FBI and CIA). The full story
of Igor and Shadrin's association with the operation which
ensued is told in one or more Agency studies which, although
several were written in ignorance of the final developments
in the case, are more factually accurate and detailed than
Hurt's account, which is mueH degraded by the fact he had to
build his case wholly on word-of-mouth accounts. ( However, /
Hurt must be credited with, thanks to considerable”presstire
applied by "Reader's Digest" at high levels, having
collected considerable information; he also had help from
Copaken's own aggressive investigation. Finally, it appears
that several FBI officers confided more to Ewe Shadrin and
her lawyer than they should have. The Angleton/Epstein role
emerges in the portion dealing with Igor's background and
his bona fides.

Throughout the book, Hurt flays the Agency and FBI for

having allowed Shadrin to proceed with his hazardous mission
)

in_a city where the KGB could control the situation, but Ge)

difficult to perceive what other course could have been

€aken if the operation were to remain viable. It was an
admitted gamble, it had been done successfully before,
Shadrin was willing to proceed, and so the die was cast.

But then Hurt introduces the issue of Igor's credibility.
Should the operation have been undertaken wngn here were so
many questions about Igor? Hurt Gites the*fact Igor's
credentials rested to some degree on two defectors whom Hurt
regards as false, Fedora (the KGB agent who had worked for
the FBI) and Nosenko. The fact that by 1981 the Agency had
long accepted Nosenko as bona fide is swept aside as
irrelevant. Instead Hurt cites Epstein's Legend as his

source for questioning Nosenko's authenticity, but Hurt also

25
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

cites an FBI study done in 1980 which he claims concluded

FEDORA was a false defector.

Readers of Shadrin should bear in mind Hurt was acting
throughout for Ewe Shadrin by attempting tol generate maximum
publicity for her case and thus improve her leverage with
officialdom. Thus throughout the book the issue of Igor's
security is totally disregarded. If Igor were genuine,
which Hurt doubts by following the judgment of Epstein (in
turn based on Angelton's views), then obviously his security
should have been paramount. Logically, he should never have
been mentioned at all. Hurt apparently never understood or
refused to believe Igor had been a valuable source of
counterintelligence information, one of his leads having led , 7
to the apprehension of a long term KGB spy who had done yor’
enormous damage to American interests. Many other cases had
derived from Igor's information and were being played out.
While it is true that(Igor| had beef mentioned in ‘American
press articles)as early as 1978, the source of WHit leakage
has not been identified, the cases derived from Igor were
still being developed and, more important%y, if Igor were
genuine, all the Hurt publicity was likely to put his life
at serious risk. Hurt's book propelled the Shadrin case and
the mysterious Igor into the public knowledge in a major
way. What action the Soviets took, if any, subsequently

towards Igor is unknown to this writer, but if Igor suffered
ent oP\death at the hands of the KGB, then Hurt and
erstwhile a¥lies bear a heavy responsibility.

Hurt also ddd exaggerates what he terms Agency

incompetence and bungling in the Shadrin case, assigning
guilt to Colby, Kalaris and McCoy, roughly in that order.
He cites lack of surveillance in Vienna and the failure to
notify Washington immediately when Shadrin's absence was
discovered. Much of the blame he puts on the

uncommunicative Cynthia Hausmann. She is accused of being

26
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

‘distant /and insensitive to Ewe Shadrin when Nick was found ’ .
Missing. Although Hausmann was not a very outgoi: ra ‘a

person under the best of circumstances, she was a Vely \
competent and conscientious officer. " Most\experts-agree: |
‘hat \full surveillance was of doubtful utility in this case
and an immediate cable to Washington would have been of
little help. Under the circumstances, Hausmann's cautious
and restrained conduct seems laudable. Hurt's outrage on

these points is both naive and absurd.

The Hurt book reflects throughout the influence of
Angleton, but it plays a secondary role. But this seriously

flaws the book, which is. come by events except for

our ignorance of thé disposition|f Igor. This persists but
perhaps in the néw dispensation w¢ may one day receive the

answer.

RCMP Security Service by John Sawatsky; Doubleday and

Company (New York and Toronto), 1982--239 pages

Sawatsky's book might well have been titled James

B 2A , because that is what
it was. /It is 9 cautionary tale and should be read
carefull every senior officer dealing with security and

counterintelligence. Sawatsky's book is also one of the
best on the Angleton era, although it deals with but one
slice of it. Although Golitsyn plays a role in the book,
Sawatsky does not otherwise touch upon the major
controversies that plagued the counterintelligence scene at
the time. Sawatsky did interview some CIA retired officers,
but the bulk of his evidence was collected from RCMP
personnel who were actually involved in the Benneyt case.
Re focus’ Yf entirely on the Canadian scene ahé“tnere-are—
few distractions from the central story, Whi@his! a vivid
and truthful account of the destruction of an excellent

27
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

A:

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

civilian officer of the RCMP Security ite. Thee,are~
Wise Several accounts in the official |ciIc files may

be consulted to verify Sawatsky's story.

Sawatsky, ig a Canadian journalist, diy cut his teeth on
intelligence and security affairs with an earlier book
called Men In The Shadows, a general account of the RCMP
Security Service. shortly after the publication of
Sawatsky's book, a novel appeared by a Canadian named Ian
Adams. This was a thinly disguised story of the alleged
role of Leslie James Bennett as a Soviet spy. Bennett, who
had been a senior civilian official in the RCMP for many
years, all in counterintelligence work against the Soviets,
had been forced out of the service in 1972 supposedly on
health grounds. after a brief period in South Africa,
Bennett settled in Australia. When the Adams book appeared,
he struck back at its innuendo with a libel suit. In the
ensuing trial, much about the previously highly secret
Bennett case became public knowledge. Armed with these—
details, Sawatsky went after the rest of the story. t is/a
probably safe proposition that Bennett told Sawatsky nis
side of the story and provided the names of friends who
could fill in additional detail as well as color. It also

ems likely that as Sawatsky pursued his investigation
those who believed Bennett guilty were ready to tell their
story while those who preferred to believe him innocent,
were equally ready to strike back with more argument. This
kind or argument and counterargument, stimulating each side
to blurt out more that it had originally intended, is
perfect for the investigative journalist. Sawatsky had a

field day. Former RCMP personnel obviously talked freely

and in great detail. The result is an astonishing book that

= —
reads like security service files, except that itis /
livelier and better written. ‘

2!
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Readers of the Martin, Pincher, and other books about

counterintelligence in this period will find a-common thread

running through them and Sawatsky's book. / TI 2

- Vomuth

dntencaly -hetd-by A small group of vesteriau lo ; Ail
Ve

counterintelligence officers in the 1960s and 1970s that
their services were penetrated by the Soviets. The
penetration was thought to explain why things had gone
wrong, to show cause for many otherwise inexplicable
anomalies, and to account for the failures of their services
in the struggle against Soviet Bloc intelligence. These
fears came somewhat later to the Mounties than to the
British, who had contracted a very severe case of mole fever
during the late 1960s. But when the Mounties got the
disease, they got it the worst of all. When people wondered
why cases had collapsed, spies slipped away without trace,
or double agents who had gone to Moscow were never heard
from again, the almost overwhelming judgment was that it

must have been the work of a mole.

On pages 265-266, Sawatsky tells how suspicion fell on
Bennett because Clare E. Petty, one of Angleton's
counterintelligence officers, told some stories out of
school. They constituted the kind of airy theorizing in
which Petty specialized, what might be termed extreme
speculation unsupported by any fact, but it was enough to
set off a conflagration. When Angleton learned of Petty's
indiscretion, he was furious, but he did not then go to the
Mounties and advise caution. Instead, when he saw how

rapidly the case was developing, he poured kerosene on the

fire by suggesting the RCMP consult Goliteyn/“ Tt was-to be
Golitsyn's last big case, and he took full advantage of it.
Although only a year earlier he had visited ottawa and
stayed at the Bennett home discussing cases for hours, an
event which Bennett thought led to their becoming close

friends, the defector now declared Bennett to be a KGB mole.

29
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

This was all that was needed and the RCMP hurtled off to

disaster.

Bennett was an outsider (i.e., a civilian employee, a
rarity in the RCMP); he had been in the counterintelligence
branch for two decades; he had had access to everything; and
he was not the most popular of men. Bennett, a Welshman who
entered the RCMP in the early 1950s, had raised several
generations of commissioned and noncommissioned Mounties,
trying to instill in them the kind of discipline,
perseverance, objectivity, and dedication that
counterintelligence work requires. In the course of his
career it is safe to say he made some enemies. A dry,
dyspeptic man with a fierce dedication to his work, he was

yr
A Si known to arrive regularly at the office at seven in the

ws } morning and not leave until seven at night; this addiction
: \ \ \y to duty was later to be cited against him. He had a biting
oy tongue. He could be acidly critical of young, raw recruits
y from the Canadian prairies who came to him with nothing more

than a high school education and whom he was trying to
hammer into an effective counterintelligence service. In
the long run, although he was widely respected (and nowhere
more than with the foreign services with whom the RCMP had
liaison), many of those who passed through B Branch (the
counterintelligence section of the security service) hated

hin, It was’ a likely, if unspoken, factor in the

accusations against him.

The story of the investigation, the confrontation, the
interrogation, and the ultimate decision that Bennett had to

leave is well Sawatsky despite its enormous

complexities. a terrible, wrenching hour for the

distinguished ‘Director General (its first) of the security
service, John K. Starnes, when he finally had to decide
Bennett must go. Bennett, never in good health, was put out
of the RCMP on a medical discharge. Starnes himself left

30
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

the security service not long after and within a few years
the whole organization was closed down, to be replaced in

due course by a civilian service.

0 tne destruction of James Bennett and the wine
demise of the RCMP Security Service are events /r6>thich®
Cangieton must be held at least partially responsible,

Angleton had been a malign influence upon the service for

many years, an example of which is the Olga Farmakovskaya
case detailed in the Canadian Section of the CI Staff
History and also covered in Mangold's Cold Warrior. on
pages 257-258, Sawatsky gives an example of Angleton gulling
the Canadians with a fanciful story he had also used on the
British. Angleton in the greatest secrecy told the RCMP of
a mysterious source he had behind the Iron Curtain which
reported only sporadically but whose product was of the
highest quality. Angleton went on to indicate that, with a
reference to the cultivation of orchids, he was slowly and
patiently developing this source which provided evidence of
Soviet disruption and disinformation but also positive
intelligence as well. The source served up only partial
information and tended to refer to ancient Soviet history.
It could not be interrogated and its product came out to the
West erratically. Although good, this source had not yet
penetrated to the inner circle of Soviet power, but Angleton
had high hopes. This fanciful source (the writer heard this
himself with a small group of RCMP officers at La Nicoise at
midnight and was appalled) existed, of course, only as a
figment of Angleton's imagination, but over long alcoholic
meals Angleton would bit by bit unveil the story of his mole
in Moscow. The Mounties were sworn to deepest secrecy, but
they should have checked with their British friends, as
Angleton had used this ploy on them at an earlier stage.
When Maurice Oldfield became Chief of MI-6 in 1973 and
Michael Hanley Director General of MI-5 in 1972, they turned

a deaf ear to such palpable nonsense. (Angleton had hinted

31
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

at querying the source regarding Harold Wilson's alleged
Soviet connections, but the source never responded.) The
new management was determined not to be victimized further.
Only after the Bennett and other disasters did the Canadians
and British compare notes, thus discovering they had been

gulled separately over the years.

After Bennett's libel case against Adams brought this
scandal into public view, the Canadian Government made its
own inquiry and in 1980 the Solicitor General of Canada, Mr.
Francis Fox, told the House of Commons Committee on Justice
and Legal Affairs that "there was no evidence whatsoever
that Mr. Bennett was anything but a loyal Canadian citizen"
although there was no mention of any financial compensation
for his obvious loss of income plus his personal
humiliation. The incubus of Angleton still seemed to hover
over the case. Bennett lives in exile in Australia
surviving on a miserable medical pension.| Nothing seems to
be able to shake Canadian Government resolve to forget as

completely as possible the Bennett case.

.

Se"

32
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

: and +) by
Edward J. Epstein; Simon and Schuster (New York, N.Y.),

1989--335 pages

“ft is ‘onic that Edward J. Epstein should have
pub: his book called Deception in mid-1989 just as the
Soviet Union was undergoing massive changes, which would by
autumn 1991 result in its total demise. So also has its
major intelligence arm, the KGB, vanished, which according
to Epstein and his principal source, James Angleton, was

xesponsible for many mind-boggling feats of deception.

little heralded result of these events has been the tHe

disappearance almost overnight of what once was a burgeoning
cottage industry employing hundreds of academics and self-
appointed experts around in the country in universities and
think tanks devoted to the study of Soviet deception,
disinformation, active measures and subversion. This
already antique field of academic endeavor now has, like

Epstein's book, the smell of attic dust.

This book, rather like its predecessor Legend, is
really two books; the first book in 105 pages explains
Angleton's theories developed largely from the defector,
Anatole Golitsyn. The second part--the remainder of the
book--is devoted to various forms of deception. As this
subject has been better covered in other works/ it 3 of no
concern here except to note that one chapter is devoted to
the Soviet defector, Vitali Yurchenko, designated by Epstein
as an obvious KGB provocation similar to Nosenko. Epstein
concludes the book with a long chapter on glasnost, which he

dismisses as simply another massive KGB deception.

The most arresting information imparted in Deception is
Epstein's confession regarding his sources for both Legend
and this book. with Angleton now dead, Epstein apparently

33
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRALT

feels free to admit the former chief of CIA
counterintelligence was his major source since 1976 when

they first met. It-was Angleton who passed Epstein on to
hat

his assistants, Miler and Roce: proviatng
introductions to William Hood ead FBI officers William
Sullivan and Sam Papich. Angleton sent Epstein to Europe to
see Stephen de Mowbray, the former MI-6 officer and a
devoted disciple of Golitsyn, in England and to Tennent
("Pete") Bagley in Belgium. That the latter understood he
was passing on classified information is revealed by
Epstein's amusing description of the clandestine
circumstances under which they met. All down the years,
Angleton remained a constant and prolific source for
Epstein; the latter showed his appreciation by taking
Angleton with him to Israel when he went there in 1982 to do
research @a his book about the diamond trade (later
published as The Rise and Fall of Diamonds). Although it
was obvious to most astute observers that Angleton was
leaking classified information to Epstein and others,
nothing was done to caution him. On the other hand, when it
was agreed Clare E. Petty had been leaking classified

¥
/

i

2

material to the press, he was sent an official warning “ (.,’

letter by CIA. Thus,in retirement, as when he was a cra (i

He le
MAD Fok

official, Angleton enjoyed a protected and special status.)
¢l

Tp
In Part One Epstein recites again, as in Legend, the
Angleton belief in the KGB program of deception and

i penetration, which over the years he had absorbed from the

\ defector Golitsyn and had then embellished further with

g fe special embroidery of his own. These theories came to be
: A)
fw described by Angleton's critics as "The Monster Plot." as

Epstein never seems to have grasped the real meaning of how
the theory was supposed to have operated, the reader is
advised to read the appropriate section in the CI staff
official history or the special chapter in the CI staff

study done by Fieldhouse on the Nosenko case.

34
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

one of Golitsyn's major claims, made almost immediately
after his defection, was that another defector would soon be
sent by the KGB, as Angleton invariably put it, to
“mutilate” Golitsyn's leads (which in another oddity of
terminology, Angleton always called “serials"). In 1964
Nosenko defected to the CIA. Angleton, who by now had
complete control of Golitsyn, instantly viewed Nosenko as
the predicted plant thereby ensuring that Golitsyn would
maintain his primacy as the CI Staff's resident expert.
When Nosenko did not confess to his role as a false
defector, he was incarcerated for three years under severe
conditions. Epstein blames this action entirely on Soviet
Division management, while portraying the powerful Angelton
as agonizing helplessly on the sidelines. This rendition is
not only wrong, but patently absurd. Angleton knew all the
legal inquiries concerning such action, was kept informed of
the construction of the prison quarters, and never once
raised an objection. If he had, as Epstein claims,
genuinely opposed Nosenko's imprisonment, one word from him
to Helms would have been sufficient to stop the program

instantly.

The foregoing is but one of many errors of fact and/or
misinterpretation in this book. Like Legend it is
propaganda for Angleton and is essentially dishonest. The
errors are too many to document here, but one more example
will give the flavor of this work. This error tends to
confirm what an exasperated senior FBI officer wrote to
Director J. Edgar Hoover: "Golitsyn is not above
fabricating to support his theories." on page 85, Epstein
cites Golitsyn's assertion that, to support the KGB
deception program, it was necessary to divide soviet
intelligence into an outer and an inner KGB. Epstein then
explains what Golitsyn allegedly reported about this, but

nothing remotely resembling this can be found in any of

35
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

‘CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Golitsyn's debriefings. It seems likely this fiction was
developed by Golitsyn after his visit to England, when there
is much evidence he began to embroider and fabricate. The
idea of the two KGBs has never been reported by any other
Soviet source or defector, including the most senior
defector of modern times, Oleg Gordievsky. Thus it is
suggested this statement should be treated with great
reserve. It also suggests that Epstein, who makes
considerable pretensions to scholarship, should have been
more conscientious in checking such stories with more

responsible sources before labeling them as fact.

In summary, this is one of many bad books that appeared
during the period after Angleton's dismissal which were
inspired by him and mostly have no factual basis. Just as
Angleton gulled the British and Canadians with fake stories
about an alleged highly secret source of his in Moscow who
on occasion produced startling, if mostly historic,

information, so for over fifteen years Angleton and his

- we / cohorts gulled the public via such writers as Epstein with
books like Legend and Deception. It is difficult to believe

that a writer as obviously intelligent as Epstein could
believe the stuff he wrote.

An interview with Epstein in the magazine Vanity Fair
in May 1989 suggests Epstein is having second thoughts about
Angleton and even about his pet defector, Golitsyn. In the
interview, Epstein admits Angleton's views were shaped by
Golitsyn--but how reliable was he? "Possibly Golitsyn was a
liar," admits Epstein, "but Golitsyn is very interesting
because he is a museum of Angleton's mind. What I believe
happened is that Golitsyn listened to stories Angleton told
him and then repeated them to British intelligence and vice
versa." This suggests that the great confidence writers

like Epstein put in Golitsyn is being eroded (witness the
article William Safire wrote in The New York Times after his

36
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

visit with Golitsyn). And as a result, has Epstein's
confidence in Angleton's veracity been equally eroded? It
appears this may be the case as Epstein concluded the
interview noted above with the remark: "Actually, I don't

know whether to believe Angleton at all!"

37
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

COLD WARRIOR: James Jesus Angleton: The CIA's Master Spy
Hunter, by Tom Mangold; Simon and Schuster (New York, N.¥.),
1991--403 pages

The only book that focuses solely on James Angleton as
the central subject is Tom Mangold's Cold Warrior. All
previous books have dealt with Angleton in a peripheral
manner with the former CIA chief of counterintelligence as a
secondary subject although he often was a primary source.
The idea of a biography on Angleton had been around for some
time. William Hood, a competent writer of spy stories,
expressed an interest but was dissuaded when he became
convinced the readers on the Publications Review Staff at
Langley would hack his work to pieces, a la Admiral Turner's
book. Paul Greengrass, who ghosted Peter Wright's
Spycatcher also toyed with the idea, but was unable to find
proper financing. In the summer of 1987, Mangold got the
bug and began hunting for a publisher. He soon had two
possibilities, Random House and Simon and Schuster, He
chose the latter because they offered the largest advance
($300,000), which attracted Mangold because he knew he would
be off pay from his regular employer, the BBC, for two
years, he had a large family to support, the job would
require considerable travel, and he would have to employ a
competent research analyst. But in accepting Simon and
Schuster's offer, he also got Alice Mayhew as his editor--

but more about that later.

Mangold made a scouting trip to America in late 1987 to
find a research assistant and settled upon a Washington free
lancer named Jeffrey Goldberg, a spectacularly successful
choice. Goldberg proved to be the kind of relentless
researcher for factual detail and truth rarely found in

modern journalism. He also was a good interviewer, although

38
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Mangold handled personally the most important targets.

Together they made a formidable team.

One of their earliest successes was an interview with
David Martin, the author of Wilderness of Mirrors. Martin
welcomed Mangold's enterprise and gave him his list of
retired CIA, FBI and other knowledgeable persons on the
Agency and particularly on the Angleton debate. shortly
after, Goldberg went to New Haven to see Professor Robin
Winks, author of Cloak and Gown, a successful book on
espionage figures hailing from Yale University during World
War II and a minor authority on Angleton. Winks wanted
$2000 for a two hour interview, but Goldberg got him for
$600, which proved a good buy as Winks had material left
over from his book which in effect he turned over to
Goldberg. Among this material was the name of Max Corvo, a
successful Connecticut lawyer, who had served in OSS in
Italy with Angleton and had concluded he was a fraud. They
had become bitter enemies, a condition which passed into
post-war life Corvo, in particular, knew the details of
the "Vessel" operation, a supposed penetration by Angleton
of the Vatican (later codenamed "ZYGOMA") which Corvo claims
was a disaster in which Angleton was swindled by a Soviet
émigré and a Jesuit priest. Angleton's henchman in this
operation was a Counterintelligence Center officer named
Mario Brod, who continued to work for Angleton in New York
after the war. Corvo told Goldberg to follow up this lead.
Goldberg did and it yielded eventually the story of
Angleton's connection with Jay Lovestone, although they also
got corroborating information on this affair from Tom

Braden, a former CIA officer.

Mangold is a professional writer who, quite
understandably, wishes to realize a maximum financial reward
for his labor, but he was also anxious that his book be an
honest and accurate story fully sourced. However, he

39
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

realized that some of his sources (he was warned on this by
Martin) would likely wish to remain anonymous (as Epstein's
source had in Legend), but he insisted that otherwise every
fact in the book be carefully sourced. When he explained
this to his editor at simon and Schuster, she exploded in
disgust. It was the occasion of their first falling out, of
which there would be many; she shouted at Mangold that what
she wanted was a book full of sensational exposes of the
CIA, she didn't care where they came from or how well
documented, if at all! Her rule was, she admonished
Mangold, "to produce a book that grabs a guy and he can read
on the hour flight from L.A. to Vegas." It was clear
Mangold and his editor were not on the same wave length.
Additionally, Ms. Mayhew was at this time shepherding three
other books toward publication: Kitty Kelly's book on Nancy
Reagan, Robert Woodward's on General Powell, and Lou
Cannon's work on President Reagan. It is little wonder in a
field like this, Mangold's book about a little known and now
dead CIA officer could hardly claim his editor's attention

for long.

Mangold suffered another setback early in his work on
the book. He knew from Paul Greengrass and other British
sources that Angleton had enjoyed . B-Gy close relation with
British intelligence that had Gay adly on the London
side toward the end of his career. Mangold was hoping to
expand on this issue over what appeared in books like
Wright's Spycatcher. He therefore nade a number of
preliminary soundings, but very soo. he ne 7 to
understand by a senior British off. casi, nn Vines was
connected with SIS (MI-6) that the British Government would
view verf negatively any exhaustive inquiry of Angleton's
association with either SIS or MI-5. At the time, Mangold
had been given a specially important documentary involving
the KGB defector Gordievsky to produce; the implication was

that if Mangold transgressed the rule laid down to leave

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

British intelligence out of his book, this documentary and
others in future on which official help might be required
would be at hazard. Mangold had no recourse but to accept
this ultimatum, consequently there is little about
Angleton's influence on British intelligence, especially in
the 1960s, in the book.

When Cold Warrior appeared, some Agency officers
expressed shock that Mangold explained in his foreward he
had interviewed some 208 retired CIA offices (he did not--
curiously--mention he had also interviewed about 35 FBI
retirees), apparently in the belief that never before had so
many CIA retirees broken their secrecy oath. This is hardly
the case. In 1986 a book appeared called The Agency: The
Rise and Decline of the CIA by John Ranelagh, another
British writer. Ranelagh admits to having interviewed
“several hundred" ("over 350" he told the writer) CIA
retirees, which makes Mangold a poor second. However,
Ranelagh had a kind of laissez-passer from the Agency; he
was guided and given dozens of introductions by the late
John Bross and praises the assistance he got from the likes
of R. Jack Smith, Larry Houston and others. The difference
in attitude about these two exercises is that Ranelagh's
book was largely regarded as a "benign" view of CIA, while
Mangold's book, though not anti-CIA, is very critical of
Angleton, his activities, and especially those superiors who
should have known what he was doing and did not, or knew and
quietly approved. None of this, of course, justifies a
retired CIA officer breaking his secrecy oath whether he be
R. Jack Smith or Leonard McCoy, and at any rate in neither
case is th&& proof they did. v

A far more serious charge against Mangold's work has

been made concerning instances where CIA and/or FBI retirees /
revealed information about a sensitive source who had taken

great risks to provide intelligence on the Soviet Union, the

41
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

obvious case in Cold Warrior being the Soviet codenamed Nick
Nack and later Morine. This instance parallels Epstein's
revelations about Fedora and Top Hat, two FBI sources of the

1960s about whom Epstein disclosed considerable data, for
Epstein's revelations

which Mangold takes him to task.
about them beginning in the late 1970s could have
compromised them. Mangold argues that he understood the
last pass from Nick Nack was c. 1972 and he had not been
heard from since. At the time of writing that event was

nearly twenty years past and it might be assumed the man was
retired, but like Top Hat he was made vulnerable by Western

Mangold knew Top Hat suffered the death

revelations.
penalty; both he and his informants should have been more
responsible in restricting knowledge of Nick Nack.

Retirees' revelations can be equally damaging to

liaison relationships, although on some potentially
explosive disclosures it seems Mangold's key sources were
neither CIA nor FBI. For example, the story about Golitsyn
and CAZAB in Australia came from retired General Sir Charles

former head of ASIO. The story about the Tango case
in Canada obviously came from Mangold's excellent

Spry,
journalistic sources in Ottawa to whom Sawatsky had directed

The de Vosjoli story Mangold got partly from FBI

hin,

some from Walter Elder, former aide to Director
John McCone (who asked Elder to speak for him), and from de

sources,
Vosjoli himself, whom Mangold caught up with in Geneva,
De Vosjoli threatened to sue Mangold's

Switzerland.

publisher for millions if the true story were told about
him, thus the story in the book is considerably diluted to

satisfy Simon and Schuster's legal experts.

Some critics of Mangold's book complain that the work

unrelieved by anything worthwhile professionally he might
Before the

is one long litany of Angleton's misjudgments and failures,
There is some merit in this charge.

By,

have done.
42
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

“ez,


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

arrival of Golitsyn, Angleton and the CI Staff had done
approximately what the original CI staff charter required.
That, however, was pretty unexciting stuff and would never
have survived Ms. Mayhew's knife. The one story, which
might have served to balance the rest slightly, would have
been an account of Angleton's handling of the Israeli
liaison. Accordingly, Mangold interviewed several Mossad
officers, had Goldberg do the necessary research, and they
produced a worthy account of the 26 years Angleton had
guided the Agency's relations with Israeli intelligence. It
had nothing new or particularly startling to reveal,
although it presented a different version of how the famous
“secret speech" by Khruschev was obtained (there are several
variants). The Israeli chapter compared favorably (perhaps
even was better) than the official CIA history (read by this
writer) done by a professional Agency historian enjoying
access to official records and such experts as Stephen
Millett, then alive who was for twenty years head of the
Israeli desk. It was the cause of much resentment on
Mangold's part when Ms. Mayhew cut out the Israeli chapter
entirely on the grounds it contained nothing new or

sensational.

One vigorous critic of the Mangold book declared that
it failed to note Angleton's singular great accomplishment,
namely, he had not allowed a penetration during his twenty-
year stewardship. This is palpable nonsense. Some people
both before Angleton became Chief of the CI staff as well as
afterward, were put out of CIA on security grounds (though
not as discovered penetrations), but this was the work of
the Office of Security, not Angleton although he was aware
of such cases. When Golitsyn first arrived, he told Allen
Dulles there was no Soviet penetration of CIA, although he
later abruptly changed his story to say there was
penetration, an alteration obviously intended to preserve
his primacy as the CI staff guru. Nosenko also told his

43
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

debriefers he knew of no penetration, but as this
contradicted Golitsyn's claim, Nosenko was immediately
subjected to hostile interrogation and subsequently jailed

for three years.

Long after Angleton was fired, it was discovered there
were two penetrations of the Agency during the last period
of his command--a Czech agent, whose product was passed on
to the KGB, and a Chinese Communist agent who had entered on
active duty as a staff officer in 1970. However, Angleton
could hardly have been expected to uncover a Chinese
Communist agent as he had no section devoted to the study of
the Chinese Communist intelligence organs. Mangold's
critics also make much of the mole hunts, some suggesting
the doubtful proposition they prevented penetration. The
mole hunt was actually a minor and for Angleton
disappointing part of his activities; in reality only a
handful of officers suffered career degradation although
some endured considerable humiliation. Any fair-minded
examination of the cases reveals there should have been
neither; the four cases which were shown to the FBI were
immediately dismissed as unworthy of further investigation.
In short, Angleton's mole hunt was not what prevented
penetration of CIA; partly it was due to the massive
incompetence of the KGB itself, but an even more powerful

reason was the faceless polygraph operators and their
machines.

In the end, the best thing that can be said for
Mangold's book is that it is honest and reasonably (about 95
percent) accurate. True, there are errors, e.g., the
official CI Staff history is 11 not 12 volumes in length,
and it presents NO conclusions, although most observers
would not quarrel with the conclusions Mangold assigns to
the work. It is in fact surprising the book does not have

more errors given the fact the author worked from limited

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

documentary material except for what was in the public
domain via the Congressional Hearings. Mangold's FOIA
requests to the Agency yielded virtually nothing. Much of
the overt literature about Angleton is wildly in error or
the author's interpretations have been tailored to fit
Angleton's thus rendering them of minimal value. Despite
this, Mangold uncovered as he progressed with his research
an embarrassment of riches including many misdemeanors and
egregious acts that would have been immensely humiliating to
Angleton's adherents had they been included. They should
cast a medal for Ms. Mayhew as her dictum the book could NOT
exceed 400 pages meant that masses of material had to be cut
out. Whether this emasculation improved the book's sales is
much open to question (20,000 were printed in the United
States and it has sold out; 10,000 printed in the United
Kingdom but the book did not sell out there; there will be a
paperback edition).

But what Mangold was able to cram into the 400 pages is
devastating. Forget the mole hunt and its victims, if one
wishes, but look at the following cases: Nosenko, Loginov,
Lygren, Bennett, Farmakovskaya--the conclusion is
inescapable: something was seriously wrong. That Mangold
was able to mine such knowledgeable sources amongst the CIA
and FBI retirees is likely a once-in-a-century event for it
seems improbable that any single individual will ever stir
as many people so deeply again. Something in Angleton's
character, at once attractive but also repulsive, his
intellectual arrogance perhaps, drove people to distraction.
It was wrong,so many chose to ignore their oaths in speaking
to Mangold and Goldberg, but it is human nature for people
to wish to put the record straight.

45
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Molehunt: The Secret Search for Traitors That Shattered the
CIA by David Wise; Random House (New York, N.Y¥.), 1992--325

pages

David Wise, sometimes referred to as the dean of
espionage reporters, has produced a very readable and quite
accurate account of the molehunt in the CIA under James
Angleton in the 1960s, but it is shameless hyperbole to
title it as an event that “shattered the CIA." He says that
at most there were fifty some cases and of those he
discusses eight and only three of those in detail. They are
Peter Karlow, Richard Kovich, and Paul Garbler. He also
does a brief review of the Yankovskys and Edgar Snow, but
these cases preceded Golitsyn and the 1960s mania. He also
mentions briefly the attempts by Angleton to paint David
Murphy as a Soviet agent, but Murphy's refusal to talk to
Wise effectively limited the issue to a few paragraphs. He
fails to mention that 99 percent of CIA personnel never knew
of the mole hunt for the simple reason the investigations of
the few targeted were kept so completely secret. only in
the decade after the 1960s did some DO officers learn that a
few of their colleagues had been under investigation,
although then the gossip spread rapidly. Even then, except
for a few Security officers, the vast majority of CIA people
have learned of these bizarre events only in the last decade

when the story was picked up by investigative journalists.

When Wise began research for his book in 1989, it
appeared he intended to write a biography of Angleton, but
he soon learned an English writer named Tom Mangold had beat
him off the mark by more than a year. Recognizing his
handicap, especially when he discovered Mangold had gagged
many of the best sources, Wise had to regroup. At this
point he decided to concentrate on the mole hunt as the

center piece of this book. He had more than his share of

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

problems in putting his book together, but in Karlow and
Garbler he had two very voluble sources and their accounts,
perhaps a bit gilded, make up a good part of the book. But
Wise, as the consummate writer, has woven many other threads
into his tapestry and in the end the work is a useful
history and mostly accurate. He has, however, in the
process lifted material shamelessly from Mangold's much more
detailed story of Angleton and his time for which he gives
little credit.

On the whole, Wise has done his homework well and the
book is full of interesting stories even if many are already
known. There is, however, one major error which emerges in
the part on Igor Orlov. Because Wise has depended strongly
on his FBI sources and retired old CI Staff officers like
N.S. Miler, he has produced a garbled version of the Igor
Orlov and Sasha stories. If Wise's sources do not believe
Kitty Hawk was genuine, then he was unlikely to give much
importance to the American military person Kitty Hawk
identified as a major KGB source of valuable intelligence
(including volumes of CIA material). By contrast, this
tends to make Igor Orlov seem not so unimportant, when in
fact he was a low-level CIA agent (and never a CIA staff
officer) in Germany whose career was finished by 1959.
Nonetheless, he was considered important and his product was
much valued in Moscow. Golitsyn, as he frequently did with
other matters, probably got these two individuals confused.
He likely thought Orlov, who Golitsyn claimed was in CIA,
was the source for the massive amounts of material from the
American who was for two separate periods stationed in

Germany.

Naturally, Miler does not wish to advertise the value
of the military officer, whose identity could have been
resolved had the CI Staff done a proper analysis of the

leads they had separately from Golitsyn and Nosenko. The

47
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

case somewhat resembles that of Vassall in England. Each
defector made a valuable contribution, but in this case
Nosenko's lead was discounted as throwaway or deception, and
so nothing serious was done to identify the real Sasha. It
is by far the worst example of the CI Staff's failure to do
a simple job of CI analysis. They could have been heroes
but with their mind set, they failed completely. Wise has
missed the significance of this point, but perhaps just as

well. Things are bad enough as they are.

The British Connection

The intelligence literature discussed below is by
British authors and deals almost solely with British events.
None of the books are anti-CIA in the usual sense. Several
express some respect for James Angleton though this attitude
is in retreat by the end of the 1980s. A few of the books
explore the Golitsyn-Nosenko controversy and some think
Golitsyn helped British intelligence. At least three
authors received help from Angleton although the amount of
information he imparted is difficult to measure as the books
are poorly sourced. Most of the writing is critical of MI-5
in varying degrees with less attention given to SIS (MI-6)
except where the Philby and Blake cases are discussed.
Despite what appears to be a low Angleton profile, he in
fact played an important role in igniting a series of events
that proved embarrassing to the Thatcher government. Had
she not enjoyed such strong majorities in the House of
Commons, one or more of these affairs conceivably might have

brought her government down.

Angleton always took a keen interest in British
intelligence affairs dating from his early experience with
Philby. Later, partly on Angleton's recommendation, the
defector Golitsyn spent nearly five months in Britain in

1963 and met with British security and intelligence people

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

AMG ‘v

(b ty
@ y

soe
we

“
haf

wv “a
ee"

i

“fash

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

jeveral times afterward. Golitsyn made a powerful
impression on two British officers in particular: Arthur
Martin, the senior counterespionage officer in MI-5, and
Stephen de Mowbray, a junior officer in MI-6 who served as
second officer for MI-6 in Washington in the mid-1960s.

Both men uncritically accepted Golitsyn's ideas about
penetration and deception. Most of the earlier converts to
Golitsyn's ideas dropped out, especially Sir Maurice
Oldfield who became Chief of MI-6, as events began to cast
doubt on the defector's credibility. Peter Wright, always
sensitive to what the powerful believed, was at first a
Golitsyn advocate, but later became a critic as the power
barons in MI-5 turned against the Soviet defector. However,
Martin and de Mowbray have remained faithful to Golitsyn and

de Mowbray in particular became a source for Epstein.

Angleton's influence in MI-5 and MI-6 also suffered a
decline during the early 1970s. Both Martin and de Mowbray
had retired, and Wright retired in 1976, leaving for
Tasmania shortly after. Although Wright was out of touch,
Martin and de Mowbray remained in contact with Angleton as
well as Golitsyn. In the early 1980s Martin and de Mowbray
assisted Golitsyn in the preparation of his book New Lies
for Old. Like Wright, they were much frustrated by their
inability to get the authorities to consider their case
against Mitchell and, especially, against Hollis. De
Mowbray fervently believed the West was not sufficiently
alert to the threat of Soviet deception; and he was
especially annoyed when a paper he had prepared on Soviet
penetration with special reference to Hollis received no
response from 10 Downing Street, where he had personally

delivered it to the Prime Minister's secretary.

In 1978 Andrew Boyle, an English writer, came to
Washington to do research at the National Archives on a book
he was preparing on the career of a notable Englishman

49
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

rumored to have been a Soviet agent during World War II.

The subject in question was Sir Anthony Blunt, who had long
been the subject of malicious gossip revolving around his
homosexuaiSite style as well as his known close association
with Guy Burgess and Kim Philby. Boyle had done lengthy
research on Blunt's background at public school and
university plus his well known role as Keeper of the Queen's
Pictures. Boyle's intention was to make the strongest
possible case his quarry was a Soviet agent without getting
himself in legal difficulty. He therefore codenamed the
subject of his book "Maurice" after a homosexual character
in an E.M. Forster novel. During his research in
Washington, Boyle met James Murphy, Angleton's wartime boss
as head of X-2 in OSS, who in turn introduced him to
Angleton. As a result there are many references in his book
to Angleton, which are always respectful and usually heavily
laden with metaphoric allusions to patient angling or the

careful nurturing of orchids.

The Boyle book, called The Climate of Treason, appeared
on 5 November 1979 and within ten days forced Mrs. Thatcher
to admit to Parliament Blunt's confession in 1964 to having
been a Soviet agent while working for MI-5 and that to
obtain full disclosure of his treachery he had been given a
grant of immunity from prosecution. This agreement had been
kept a secret for fifteen years during which time he worked
for the Royal Household and had been given a knighthood by
the Queen. The shock of the disclosure about Blunt was only
the first and least damaging of several that were in store
for Mrs. Thatcher. This was ironic, for even from her
Opposition years and unlike her predecessors, she had taken
a keen interest in the secret world. She made a point of
getting to know her chiefs of the secret services, and she
had a close and mutually admiring association with sir
Maurice Oldfield, Chief of SIS (MI-6) from 1973-79.

50
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

She also came to depend heavily upon Sir Robert
Armstrong who was not only Permanent Secretary to the
Cabinet but was also her principal security adviser.

Usually this secret world would have remained part of her
private work, but events beyond her control precipitated a
number of disasters. After her long and revealing statement
about Blunt, it seeméd to confirm her as an exponent of an
unusual candor, as(selj/as intending to demystify as far as
possible the secret world. The question of how much
penetration there had been of the foreign, secret and

in the 1940's and 1950's seemed to have

security servic

taken a large step toward closure.

With Mrs. Thatcher's disclosure, the Boyle book became
a best seller and earned its author a considerable
reputation as well as much money. However, for some
inexplicable reason, Boyle in chapter nine included a story
which brought him much trouble and caused his enhanced
reputation to take a serious tumble. In chapter nine,
titled “Enter the Fifth Man," Boyle introduces a figure
codenamed “Basil” who he suggests was a slightly homosexual
nuclear scientist serving in the British Embassy in
Washington with Donald Maclean. From this slender evidence
he suggests this person as a likely candidate for "The Fifth
Man." The press was immediately in hot pursuit, while Boyle
dodged and hedged. Very soon they located an elderly
British scientist in Washington named Wilfrid Basil Mann who
was now an American citizen working at the National Bureau
of Standards, but who in 1949-51 had served as a scientific
liaison officer to CIA with Philby in the MI-6 office.

Dr. Mann denied he was "The Fifth Man" and rather
belatedly the American authorities came to his rescue with
assurances he was not nor ever had been a Soviet agent.
Both Boyle and Angleton remained silent on the case of Dr.

Mann (Boyle had never interviewed Mann nor did he apologize

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

after the affair was resolved) and it was left to Dr. Mann
later to write his own rebuttal in which he set the record

completely straight.

Dr. Mann, who had a personal friendship with Angleton
in the Philby days, remains perplexed regarding the origins
of the affair and as both Boyle and Angleton are dead, it is
likely the issue may never be fully resolved. However, we
know that Angleton and Boyle had a close relationship during
Boyle's stay in Washington. The likely result was that
Angleton confirmed Boyle's suspicions of Blunt; it further
seems likely that at some point Angleton, in his peculiarly
circular and obscure way of speaking, provided the Mann
story because Mann had worked as an intelligence officer
under Philby in Washington. For unexplained reasons, Boyle
got the story wrong and foolishly included it in his
otherwise quite admirable book. Dr. Allen Weinstein,
reviewing the affair later, called it a "case of blatant
McCarythism based on gossip from spook informants." ‘That
accurately sums it up, but it does not relieve the distress
and embarrassment Dr. and Mrs. Mann suffered at the hands of

the media during their brief moment of fame.

The early 1980s were marked by more trouble for Mrs.
Thatcher from the secret world. Aside from the union
trouble at GCHQ, following the conviction of Geoffrey Prime
for spying for the Soviets in 1982, the worst of the shocks
came with the publication of a Their Trade is Treachery by
the investigative journalist, Chapman Pincher, in 1981.
Within a brief time after its appearance, Mrs. Thatcher was
forced to make yet another admission to the House of
Commons. The Pincher book, far more than the union and
espionage problems at GCHQ, was to prove a major political
difficulty because it triggered a series of events
culminating in the famous Spycatcher trial in Australia in

1986.

52
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

The Pincher book and events surrounding it was to some
extent the result of a conversation between a Tory MP named
Jonathan Aitken and James Angleton in Washington in December
of 1979 just a few days after Mrs. Thatcher had made her
admission regarding Blunt. For reasons best known to
himself, Angleton hinted darkly to Aitken that the Blunt
revelations were just the tip of a mammoth problem, which
might well lead to an investigation of penetrations of MI-5
and MI-6. Aitken, fascinated, asked for more data, but
Angleton demurred and said he would think how to proceed.
Upon his return to England, Aitken found a letter from
Angleton telling him to speak to Arthur Martin and
Christopher Phillpotts, both of whom had been deeply
involved in mole-hunting. Aitken contacted the two men and
they told him exactly what Angleton intended he should hear:
that in 1963 and after )there had been prolonged
investigations into Mitchell and Hollis as putative Soviet
agents. An idea of what they were told is reflected in the
letter Aitken subsequently sent Mrs. Thatcher, a copy of
which is attached to the summary of the Pincher book.

Angleton's revelations to Aitken, however, are minor
compared to what was to happen next. Aitken told Pincher
some or likely most of what he had learned from Martin and
Phillpotts, but then in the early autumn of 1980 events took
an even more bizarre turn. At that time Lord Rothschild
brought Peter Wright from Australia and introduced him to
Chapman Pincher. This led to a working partnership between
Wright and Pincher resulting in the eventual publication of
Their Trade is Treachery, which revealed the investigations
within MI-5 of Hollis and Mitchell as possible Soviet agents
as well as many other MI-5 secrets. It was this book which
forced Mrs. Thatcher to confirm there had been such
investigations but that subsequent reviews of the cases
demonstrated there was no evidence to support such charges.

53
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
A A ume “eh
jet tt we

It was not\known when Pincher's book became a best
seller that the major source for his sensational book was
Peter Wright, who was quietly tucked away in Australia on
his stud farm. Nor was there common knowledge of the role
Angleton had played in getting the project underway. There
was, however, much speculation about the source for so much
sensitive material, but in all the excitement about the

public charg

against Hollis and Mitchell attention was

diverted from some basic issues.

In 1986 all the mystery was to be resolved because that
year it was learned Peter Wright had completed a book and
was moving to have it published. The book called Spycatcher
was to be published by Heinemann's branch in Australia.

Upon learning this, the British government immediately got
an injunction to stop the book and the trial followed. It
was then that the disturbing fact emerged that not only had
Wright been the main source for Pincher's allegations
against Hollis and Mitchell, but knowing this and having the
opportunity to stop Pincher from publishing, a small group
within the British government (including MI-5) had decided
not to go to law. Pincher, in other words, had virtually
published with government approval. This revelation fatally
undermined the British government's position not only in
Australia but elsewhere as well. It led to wholesale
publications of Spycatcher in many countries so that when
the case finally wended its passage to a final hearing in
the House of Lords, the judges found themselves unable to
uphold the obligation of confidentiality on which the
government depended. As the affair unfolded, over a period
of years between 1985 and 1988, the government's efforts to
stop publication came to be seen as absurd as they were

desperate.

4
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

As the problem developed, Mrs. Thatcher pushed a proxy
defender forward. sir Robert Armstrong was assigned to
carry the British government's case in the Australian court.
In this forum he did not do well; he was a reluctant
witness, harried by a disrespectful young Australian lawyer,
Malcolm Turnbull, but he did what duty demanded and put
himself on the rack. He was as he ruefully admitted, the
government's "fall guy" in the desperate effort to exhaust
every remedy against Wright's book. He will always be
remembered for his memorable locution during the trial that

it was necessary sometimes in his job "to be economical with

the truth." 7 mein stud opto :

The book that ignited Mrs. Thatcher's futile effort was
the work of Peter Wright, but ghost written by Paul
Greengrass. Wright was a discontented former MI-5 officer
who had two major grievances against his former employer:
(1) their failure to give him his full pension to which by
any standard of decency he was entitled and for which under
secrecy regulations he possessed no redress; and (2) his
former service's determination that it could not be proved
Hollis had been a Soviet agent, a position much reinforced
by a year long study by Lord Trend, a former Cabinet
Secretary. To this was added a whiff of the good life
resulting from money he had received for his share in Their
Trade is Treachery. Wright could have had no idea his own
book by an accident of fate would be propelled onto the best

seller lists and thus make him a fortune.

As regards the culminating event, the great Spycatcher
trial in Australia, there are three books worth reading,
each in its own way very different from the others. There
is also a chapter in David Hooper's Official Secrets:
called "The Wright Case: A Tale of Perversity," which is an
excellent summary by a British solicitor who participated in

the case as a member of Turnbull's team. The most spirited

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

book though a bit prejudiced is Turnbull's account of the
trial in sydney titled The Spycatcher Trial. The second
a called The Spycatcher Affair and

is a good account of what

e trial in Australia. The final
book is Molehunt by Nigel West and although only the last
part of the book covers the Spycatcher trial, it gives a
good summary of events leading up to it, albeit from a pro-
Thatcher point of view. In the end, a cartoon that appeared
in a London daily perhaps most accurately summed it all up;
it shows a group of bewigged barristers in the office of Her
Majesty's Attorney General and one is commenting: “So far
the legal fees come to approximately ten million pounds--
wouldn't it have been cheaper to have increased the old
codger's pension in the first place?" Just a bit of common

sense.

56
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

The Climate of Treason by Andrew Boyle; Hodder and Stoughton
(New York, N.¥.), 1979; revised edition, 1980--574 pages

Andrew Boyle's book (published in England under the
title The Fourth Man) is recommended, despite its numerous
errors both of fact and interpretation, because on the whole
it is a good read on the Cambridge spies. It also has some
slight historical significance: its publication on 5
November 1979 forced Mrs. Thatcher, then Prime Minister of
Great Britain, only ten days later to confirm that sir
Anthony Blunt, a wartime officer with MI-5 and later Keeper
of the Queen's Pictures, had been a Soviet agent. In the
original edition, Boyle used the code name "Maurice" (taken
from an E.M. Forster novel about a homosexual) for sound
legal reasons to disguise the identity of Blunt. But there
had been hints and much pub gossip for years that there was
a senior British person usually described as homosexual who
was a member of the Cambridge group of spies who had yet to
be publicly identified. But it was impossible in the United
Kingdom to confirm these rumors absolutely because the
Official Secrets Act was a powerful force preventing
disclosure by intelligence officers, serving or retired, of
the true facts. However, the Official secrets Act has no
force in the United States and it was there in 1978 Boyle
went to continue his research, where he spent much time with
James Angleton. However, neither in his book nor at any
time before his death from cancer in 1988 did Boyle ever
admit to having received classified information from
Angleton. Despite this, there are many indicators in the
book, especially in the chapters on Philby and "the Fifth
Man," of Angleton's influence on Boyle and it seems likely
Angleton provided some conclusive evidence about Blunt to
Boyle. Angleton knew about Blunt's confession from his past
position as CIA Chief of Counterintelligence where he was

privy to much highly classified information passed to him by

57
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

the British services. However, senior FBI
counterintelligence officers also held such knowledge, thus
it is possible Boyle may have received sensitive information

from more than one American source.

In addition to exposing Blunt the Boyle book is very
good social history and is packed with solid information on
the political climate of the times as well as providing a
detailed review of the Cambridge spies from Burgess through
Blunt and Philby. Despite its drawbacks noted above as well
as below, the book is the best account of this unusual
group. Only Cairncross, now positively identified as "the
Fifth Man," remains to be presented in a detailed biography
and that is almost certainly being worked on at this moment.
It is recommended over John Costello's long-winded Mask of
Treachery (William Morrow and Company; New York, N.¥.,
1988), which runs off the rails with its conclusion that
“the Fifth Man" was Guy Liddell, a distinguished MI-5
officer whose career extended from the early 1920's until
1958. This allegation has been denounced by authorities on
every hand and much degrades the credibility of Costello's

work overall.

The Boyle work, however, suffers form a grotesque and
inexplicable error, which may serve to validate Angelton's
close association with Boyle and his contribution to the
book in terms other than the revelation about Blunt.

Chapter Nine is titled "Enter The Fifth Man" and rambles on
for 40 pages describing in elliptical terms an atomic
scientist somehow controlled by James Angleton (invariably
referred to as "brilliant" and "penetrating") who was played
as a double agent informant. The scientist was British, had
been in the British Embassy around the time of Maclean's
tour in Washington, and was code-named "Basil," the second
codename Boyle employed in the book. In later editions,
while Boyle abandoned his code name for Blunt (there no

58
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

longer being any need to continue the fiction), he
maintained the mysterious "Basil" but provided no further
elucidation. Because of the fascinating implications, the
press searched frantically for "Basil's" identity while
Boyle refused to supply it, claiming it was the
responsibility of the Americans, who knew who he was.
Finally, it was determined there had been a Dr. Wilfrid
Basil Mann in the British Embassy, and more interestingly)
during the period Philby and Burgess were there. Dr. Mann
had remained in America after that tour and became an
American citizen in 1959, being employed by the National
Bureau of Standards. The press quickly ran him down at his
home in Chevy Chase, Maryland, but Dr. Mann denied
emphatically that he was "Basil" and, rather tardily, the
American authorities allowed that Dr. Mann was a loyal
American citizen. But most reporters missed the essential
ingredient of the story, i.e., that James Angleton and Dr.
Mann had been friends for some years, or at least from the
time of Philby's and Dr. Mann's arrival in Washington, which
nearly coincided. Grudgingly and puzzled, the press backed
down from the Dr. Mann issue. In 1982 Dr. Mann produced his
own brief book on the issue titled Was There a Fifth Man? in
which he details his career as a scientist and proves
convincingly that Boyle's allegations were careless
nonsense. We now know that The Fifth Man (if we can really
believe Golitsyn's assertion about a "Ring of Five") was

John Cairncross, who definitely was NOT an atomic scientist.

So where did Boyle get his idea for "Basil" as "the

Fifth Man"? As neither Boyle nor Angleton, perhaps
understandably, ever divulged anything further on the issue ;
and as both are now dead, At¥s\undikely the full truth win (!")
sever be known. If Dr. Mani sudpicions he has kept then

to himself. Because Angleton was a family friend of some
standing, it is unlikely Dr. Mann will speculate in a

fashion that would (he degradlalg $% Angleton's memory.

59
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

pwd
Whatever the case, \bhd Bottom Line We the "Basil" story “"
that dtp unsubstantiated claims provided in a careless and
obscure manner, tenag to downgrade the dy@rajx credibility
of Boyle's work by introducing an issue /pdt(Was proven
untrue and in any case jt#é peripheral to the main story.

As a footnote to the above, the writer in February 1992
interviewed Dr. Mann regarding the Boyle story. Dr. Mann
stated Boyle had never contacted him about the story nor had
he, after the story had been proven false, apologized to Dr.
Mann for the distress and embarrassment it had caused. Dr.
Mann now has read Cold Warrior and other things about
Angleton and has formed a judgment of the man different from
that he held in 1980 when the trouble erupted. It is a
complex story too intricate to be analyzed here, but there
is strong evidence that Angleton for some unknown reason
likely told Boyle various stories about Dr. Mann never
completing the details and leaving a false impression on
this gullible journalist. Boyle should have checked his
facts further but did not. As a result a bogus story was
included in what otherwise was largely an accurate book
based on what Dr. Allen Weinstein, the competent author of
Perjury: The Hiss-Chambers Case, calls dubious information
from "informant spooks," a reference obviously aimed at

James Angleton.

Their Trade is Treachery by Chapman Pincher; Sidgwick and
Jackson (London), 1981--240 pages

The importance of this book is now historical in the
sense that, like Boyle's disclosures about Sir Anthony
Blunt, it was the instrument that forced Mrs. Thatcher to
admit to Parliament that Sir Roger Hollis, former Director
General of MI-S5, had been under investigation some years
previous as a possible Soviet agent. The author of the

book, Chapman Pincher, had been a gadfly of the British

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

government for years on intelligence and defense matters in
his position as a senior reporter for Lord Beaverbrook's
Daily Express. As for the book's very detailed exposition
of the case against Hollis and his deputy, Graham Mitchell,
while interesting as an example of how "mole mania" had
gripped senior persons in the American and British
intelligence and security services, it is fully accepted now
that the case against the two men was entirely
circumstantial and that they were innocent of the charges.
The West also now has the word of Oleg Gordievsky, the
important KGB defector, for this. Other supporting data on
this matter may be forthcoming from now unemployed KGB

officers in Moscow, and even the KGB files.

At the time Pincher's book appeared there was some
reason to believe James Angleton was responsible for the
massive leakage to Pincher about the Hollis and Mitchell
cases (he had known about them in his capacity as Chief, CI
Staff) although Pincher denied this. Pincher does, however,
lend credence to this theory on page 2 by noting a warning
had been given Mrs. Thatcher about the explosive nature of
the Hollis case by Jonathan Aitken, A Troy MP and son of the
late Lord Beaverbrook. Aitken claimed ot have learned about
Hollis from "former members of MI-5, SIS and the CIA". on
page 3 Pincher continues with the following (which sounds
very familiar to those acquainted with Angleton's practice
of calculated leakage): "The view of the loyal MI-5
officers who uncovered the evidence is that the Russians
penetrated both the Security and Intelligence Services so
deeply, and for so long, that they not only neutralized them
but effectively ran them. I have established that this is
also the view of senior officers of the CIA, who had been
alerted to the facts." All of the foregoing is, of course,
wildly in error. No senior CIA officer (except Angleton)
had accepted the case against Hollis nor was the CIA about

to press Mrs. Thatcher for an investigation of the matter as

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Pincher implies. On the contrary, the view of CIA
counterintelligence in 1980 was sturdily that the case
against Hollis was the work of a small group of British
officers, namely Arthur Martin, Peter Wright, and Stephen de
Mowbray, all of whom were retired from their services. The
CIA elements to whom Pincher refers were Angleton and a few
adherents all of whom had been in retirement since 1974 or
before and had ever since been leading a vendetta against
the new counterintelligence people at CIA. They regarded
the three British officers noted above as allies in their
battle to prove Golitsyn's charges of massive penetration of

the Western services.

For reasons best known to himself, Angleton alone
decided in late 1979 and likely in the euphoria inspired by
the revelations which Mrs. Thatcher had been forced to make
about Blunt, to thrust himself into the center of the Hollis
controversy by leaking information on the Hollis case to
Jonathan Aitken who was then visiting Washington. In 1981
Pincher was reluctant to reveal any close connection to
Angleton or anything about the Aitken matter more specific
than that noted above, but later in his book he makes clear
that he and Angleton were in frequent correspondence, the

nature of which he does not specify.

The truth about the extent of Angleton's contribution
to the Hollis problem was not revealed until the famous
“Spycatcher" trial in Australia in 1986 when a copy of
Aitken's letter was submitted to the court as evidence. It
emerged that Aitken had visited Washington in December 1979
where he had a long talk with Angleton who declared he
believed there would be a major investigation of MI-5 and
MI-6. When a startled Aitken asked why, Angleton replied he
would think of some way of answering the question. When
Aitken returned to London he found a letter from Angleton

awaiting him at the house of Commons. The letter told

62
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Aitken to talk with Arthur Martin, formerly of MI-5, and
Christopher Phillpotts, formerly of MI-6 (he had been chief
of counterintelligence). It is now known that Angleton had
written Martin about his talk with Aitken and he likely
wrote Phillpotts as well. Aitken had known Martin well from
his days after leaving MI-6 (he had been transferred out of
MI-5 over to MI-6) when he worked for several years as a
clerk to the House of Commons. It now appears that Martin
told Aitken the entire story about the Hollis and Mitchell
investigations; Aitken in turn used this information in his
famous “warning” letter to Mrs. Thatcher. Later Aitken, who
was very close to Pincher, told him the story including the
fact he had sent a personal warning to Mrs. Thatcher via a
“confidential and personal" letter. Angleton's role, though
not mentioned to Mrs. Thatcher, was made clear to Pincher,

which is why Pincher makes frequent reference to him.

Thus Pincher knew a great deal but he did not have the
whole story. The massive amount of inside information in
his book came from another source. In September 1980
Pincher received a telephone message from Lord Rothschild to
come as soon as possible to his home in Cambridge. When
Pincher noted it was a late Sunday afternoon with crowded
roads, Rothschild said he would send his Rolls with driver
from London to pick him up and bring him directly to
Rothschild's home. Pincher agreed and when he arrived,
Rothschild introduced him to a person he did not know but
soon discovered was Peter Wright. Rothschild after dinner
withdrew and Pincher spent the evening debriefing Wright on
a number of intelligence issues, chief amongst them being
the Hollis and Mitchell cases. Later a financial agreement
was reached between the two parties, and to acquire further
details, Pincher with his wife flew to Australia where he
could debrief Wright at his leisure. It was an astonishing
lode. Pincher could hardly grasp his good fortune. Ina

later book, Pincher exclaimed, "To someone as obsessively

63
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

curious as I am about the secret services, it was like being
led into Aladdin's cave with nuggets and jewels sparkling
everywhere!"

This book sold well and eventually made him not only
the most famous journalist in Britain but also a very
wealthy man. However, its major claim to fame, as noted
earlier, is that its publication jolted the Thatcher
government into a forced admission that there has been an
investigation of Hollis, but that no evidence was found to
support the charge of his having been a Soviet agent.
Pincher in the course of these developments became wholly
convinced that Hollis had been a spy and two years later
produced a second book on the subject called Too Secret Too
Leng which sold well (it added what Pincher called further
hard evidence), but whose premise was not proven. Then two
years later Wright took center stage himself with the
publication of his own book Spycatcher. It was banned in
Britain but the incredible circus trial in Australia
prevented its being banned there. The result, however, was
to send sales of this otherwise ordinary book skyrocketing
to best-seller levels all around the world and overnight

made Wright an multi-millionaire.

It is clear that Angleton's role in supplying
information to Pincher was much less than was first thought
when it was unknown that Wright was actually Pincher's
secret source. But he was certainly the instrument by which
Aitken became informed of the whole Hollis affair and
Pincher got that much information second hand from Aitken.
But the real informant we know was Wright who provided his
information to Pincher for monetary reward. What was the
reason for Lord Rothschild's bizarre action in bringing
Wright to England to meet Pincher? That he kept to himself
and it is unlikely the truth will ever be fully known.

64
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

I. AMatter of Trust: MI-5, 1945-72 by Nigel West;
Weidenfeld and Nicholson (London), 1982--196 pages

II. Molehunt: The Full Story of the Soviet Spy in MI-5 by
Nigel West; Weidenfeld and Nicholson (London), 1987--208

pages

Nigel West (true name Rupert Alason, a Conservative
Member of Parliament) is the pseudonym of a writer of spy
books, of which two are considered here. The first book to
be considered A Matter Of Trust published in 1982 is a
history of MI-5 in the post-World War II period. It
contains a good deal of largely accurate information on MI-
5, also called the Security Service more commonly in recent
times, and is a good overview of operations against the
Soviet intelligence offensive in Britain. It contains,
therefore, some information about CIA sources, especially
defectors such as Golitsyn and Goleniewski. It is well
written and researched and, despite the Official secrets
Act, it is the most reliable story about MI-5 after World
War II that has appeared in print. At the time of writing,
West had the advantage of the revelations that had appeared
just a year earlier in Pincher's book Their Trade is
Treachery with its allegations that Sir Roger Hollis, former
Director General of MI-5 and his deputy, Graham Mitchell,
had been investigated as possible Soviet agents; and just
two years earlier Mrs. Thatcher had confirmed that Sir
Anthony Blunt had been a Soviet spy, but because of his
confession and agreement to tell what he knew about the
Soviet spy activities in Britain, he had been secretly
granted immunity.

However, in writing A Matter of Trust Nigel West had a
secret advantage, which he has never divulged. West knew
that the key figure in the investigation of the Philby case

65
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

as well as other spy cases of major importance had been
Arthur Martin. Martin had been the eminent counterespionage
expert in MI-5 as a result of his investigation of Philby
after 1951. He had been sent abroad on assignment in
Malaysia for a time, but upon his return in 1960 to the MI-5
Head Office he was put in command of the Soviet section in D
Branch (counterespionage). In 1963 he had made such a
strong case Philby was a Soviet agent that Philby was
finally confronted in Beirut and fearing the net was closing
in, fled to safety in Moscow. But that same summer, the
defector Golitsyn visited England and was under Martin's
control during his debriefing. Martin had even before the
defector's arrival concluded there had been or still was a
Soviet penetration of his service. This eventually led to
his deduction that it was at a high level, i.e., possibly
the Director General or his deputy. The result was an
investigation of Graham Mitchell but no case could be proved
against him and it was dropped. Then Martin challenged the
Director General himself. Sir Roger Hollis was about to
retire but in the face of what amounted to almost persistent
insubordination by Martin in his pursuit of the ephemeral
spy in the service, Hollis as one of his last acts before
leaving at the end of 1965 had Martin transferred to MI-6.
Martin remained there for the remainder of his career.

After he retired, MI-6 got him a position as clerk of the

House of Commons for several year: When he left his

Commons job, he retired into the Cotswolds where he lives

today.

The Boyle book which exposed Blunt as a spy, led to
several writers investigating security matters about which
there were rumors but little hard fact. one of these was
Nigel West and his research led him eventually to Martin.
Although fully aware of the restrictions of the official
Secrets Act, Martin was taken by the engaging personality of

the young writer who pledged he would use Martin's

66
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

information for background only. Martin admits he told West
much more than his secrecy oath or common sense allowed.
Sometime later, Martin learned his former service had
obtained a copy of West's manuscript and were shocked at the
voluminous detail that could only have come from someone who
had been in the service. At about the same time, Martin
feeling nervous about West's calls to check some facts, went
to his former employers and told them of his conversation
with West. Martin was let off on this occasion, but was

given a warning there would be severe retribution if it

happened again.

Martin's information probably assisted West in only
about a fifth of the book, mainly on the FLUENCY
investigations (as the mole hunt in MI-5 and MI-6 was
known), the Hollis and Mitchell cases, the Philby case, and
such matters. Much of the remainder of the book is drawn
from overt sources or a small number of people once
associated with MI-5 but retired yet willing to give out
bits and pieces of information. Taken together, West had
enough to make an impressive book, mostly accurate and it
stands as a sound account of the MI-5 organization and
activities in post-war Britain. MI-5 at first considered
legal action against the West book, but in the end did

nothing.

The second of West's books considered here is Molehunt,
which appeared in 1987 and, as its name implies, covers the
investigations by MI-5 into the Hollis and Mitchell cases as
well as the work of the FLUENCY committee (on which Angleton
fashioned his HONETOL). ‘The work of the FLUENCY committee,
like its CIA imitator, covered much ground but with few
results--certainly no penetration was found although several
MI-6 officers were forced to resign their service on grounds
ef having concealed certain data on their applications

and/or vetting forms. As West does not know the true facts

67 Ayath or fac? ~
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT Ww A %


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

about FLUENCY he wh anggertes its effectiveness. The
book also, in addition to examining at great length the
cases against Hollis and Mitchell, looks at the career of
Guy Liddell, a distinguished MI-5 officer who retired in
1953. Unlike John Costello (The Climate of Treason), West
concludes Liddell could not have been "the Fifth Man," this
being written before the Andrew-Gordievsky book correctly
identified John Cairncross as the Englishman on whom that
dubious title should be bestowed.

The most interesting part of Molehunt is the latter
portion which West devotes to his commentary on the
spycatcher trial in Sydney. I/ts|Gbvious"fest/took great
delight in observing the miserable situation in which his
competitor, Chapman Pincher, found himself as bit by bit the
embarrassing story emerged of Wright's collusion with
Pincher. All the clever devices Pincher had created to
protect the identity of his true source for the vast amount
of beans spilled in Their Trade is Treachery, all his false
stories and cover-ups, were suddenly exposed to the delight
not just of the public but especially to all the journalists
who had suffered Pincher's scoops and inside stories. Now
he was revealed as having concocted a sordid deal to pay the
old spycatcher a paltry sum for his information which,
converted into a book, had paid off for Pincher in the
amount of several hundred thousand pounds. In terms of
ignominy and embarrassment, Pincher ran second only to sir

Robert Armstrong.

Two of the most informative chapters in this book
(chapters 6 and 7) cover the background to Pincher's
relations with Wright and Lord Rothschild and provide vital
information not revealed in either Pincher's or Turnbull's
books. In particular, West Demonstrates the degree of
knowledge senior officials, particularly MI-5 and the

Cabinet Secretary, possessed regarding Pincher's manuscript

68
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

“GonPIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

of Their Trade is Treachery. He also demonstrates that
because of the illegal means by which they had acquired the
manuscript their hands were tied legally as regards bringing
action to prevent publication. It was this conundrum that
allowed Pincher's book to appear even though the top people
in the British government know its contents violated the
Official Secrets Act. Beyond this, West also reports that
soon after the book's appearance the British intelligence

authorities had by analyzing the book's contents line by

line deduced the source had t:

Martin de Mowbray, both of whom denied honestly they ha

no(contact with Pincher on the book).
cong irme ering Pincher's air tickets for his
trip to Tasmania. -AMthis information was grudgingly
revealed during the sydney trial, which much degraded the
British government's case in trying to force an injunction
against Wright's book when Pincher's earlier work had been

allowed to go into print with no objection. These two

chapters are among the best in this well-researched and [/ _

written book.

In his last chapter West again considers the issue of
Soviet penetration of MI-5, emphasizing the belief (strongly
held by Martin and Wright) that there had been a mole in MI-
5 from the wartime period up to perhaps the early or mid
1960's. After a cursory examination of the most prominent
suspects, West finally settles on Mitchell as the most
likely candidate. He makes a general case, but his major
effort is to emphasize the paper Mitchell wrote for Prime
Minister Macmillan that in effect cleared Philby.

Admittedly the paper js replete with errors and slanted
toward “jatigaentoa/d Philby's role in the case of the
“missing diplomats" (Burgess and Maclean), but this alone
hardly makes the case against Mitchell. Surely on such a
momentous issue, Mitchell's paper must have been reviewed by

other superiors before being signed off by Sir Dick White.

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Most agree the paper is an abomination, but how do the
others explain how it got through the screening process
before it went to Downing Street for the Prime Minister.
West passes over this lightly and goes on to note other
minimal points about Mitchell such as his alleged dislike of
defectors. But taken together, West's efforts do not make a
strong case against Mitchell--especially it does not explain
how Blake was allowed by the KGB to return to London, nor
does it explain the wrapping up of the entire Molody-Gee-
Houghton-Kroger network, not does it provide any answer how
Penkovskiy was allowed to return to London on his second
visit if a spy had told the KGB about him. These points do
not make Mitchell innocent of the charge against him, but
they much weaken West's case. Gordievsky cleared Hollis;
did he not at the same time clear Mitchell? And if not, why
not? Perhaps someday the KGB archives will yield the truth.
Meantime Mitchell was spared this last indignity from West:
he had died in 1985.

70
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Spyeatcher: The Candid Autobiography of a Senior
Intelligence Officer by Peter Wright; Viking Penguin, Inc.
(New York, N.¥.), 1987--390 pages

Although filled with error, exaggeration, bogus ideas,
and much self inflation, Peter Wright's book Spycatcher is
one of the outstanding works in the field of intelligence
literature to appear in the last three decades. It covers
matters that have been explored before and repeats much that
is known to the well informed intelligence officer, but it
is nevertheless so full of bombast, the joy of the hunt,
English eccentricities, and factual data that it must be
accounted as required reading. Its publication also drove
the British government to such a degree of irrational
distraction that it embarked upon a series of foolhardy and
disastrously hopeless measures that resulted in (a) it not
stopping the book's publication, (b) ensured their own
embarrassment, and (c) made the author, whom they hoped to
punish, a wealthy man. Tom Mangold reports that Wright told
him the book in 1989 had brought him some two million
dollars Australian (about three million in US dollars).
Recently to add insult to injury, the European Community
High Court ordered the British government to pay damages to
two London newspapers whose editions carrying excerpts of

the book had been prevented from publishing the material.

By any standard, Peter Wright is a genuine character
who could only have flourished in England. In its now non-
imperial status, integrated into Europe and without the
menace of the Nazis or Bolsheviks, it seems unlikely these
kind of eccentrics will flourish again. But anyone who ever
heard Wright in full flight delivering a lecture on the pre-
World War II Comintern apparat in the United Kingdom or
dilating on his interrogation of Blunt and his

comintern/Communist friends will never forget the

7
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

experience. His appearance alone with his patriarchal
countenance, his bald pate with its crown of wispy white
hair, the curious defect of speech between a lisp and
stammer, and his astonishing memory for arcane fact was

impressive to the most jaded observer.

There are two parts to the Wright story, both of equal
importance in understanding what transpired from peddling
his information to Pincher through the infamous Granada
television show in which he first spilled his secrets to
millions of viewers to finally writing, with the help of
Paul Greengrass, his book Spycatcher. The first is Wright's
obsession, which began with Golitsyn's 1963 visit to
England, that the British services, and in particular MI-5,
were penetrated by the RIS. In this belief he was supported
and encouraged within his own service by his mentor, Arthur
Martin, who at that time was held in the utmost respect.
Later in the sixties he began an association with Angleton,
who also encouraged him in his obsessive ideas of
penetration. After Martin's removal in 1965, the leadership
of the mole hunters fell upon Wright, a mantle he willingly
accepted. The role he played in CAZAB heightened his view
of himself as the chosen voice to sound the warning. But
then other views began to be heard; the Mitchell case
sputtered out, Hollis retired and with his departure the
immediacy of action tended to decline, Golitsyn's stock
within the British services began to fall, mole hunt fever
began to recede, and Wright suddenly found himself alone
with his convictions. He tried everything to make the new
leadership listen, but they turned a deaf ear. The old man
and his obsession became an embarrassment. The problem now

was to ease him out of the service.

The second aspect of Wright's story is the man himself.
He was never a popular figure in MI-5, especially with

senior management. He was a scientist (actually he had

2
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

studied agriculture at Oxford) whose application of his
special discipline to intelligence work did not always win
acceptance by his colleagues. When he became allied with
Martin, another non-establishment outsider, and the two
began pressing for a more aggressive approach against Soviet
intelligence in the United Kingdom, they were hailed by the
young junior officers as heroes and the two were held in the
highest regard, but in the process they antagonized many of
the conservative old-timers, and especially the top
management, Hollis and Mitchell. After Golitsyn's visit and
the investigation of Mitchell began, the division between
the followers of Martin and Wright and those who questioned
the penetration idea became more pronounced. Wright was
even more isolated after Martin's departure, but the new
Director General, Furnival Jones, continued to allow Wright
considerable leeway. But toward the time of Wright's
retirement, he was virtually isolated. Many felt Wright's
obsessive mole hunt was distracting the service from its
primary tasks as well as threatening the cohesion and morale
of the service. All this had shaken Wright's confidence and
he began to feel an outcast. A prudent observer, noting so
many skeletons in the closet (Blunt, Mitchell, Hollis, etc.)
and a retiree of such mercurial temperament and precarious
financial status, would have advised some effort to assure
so far as possible that Wright left the service in a
favorable state of mind. Instead the old man was denied a
sizable portion of his retirement annuity to which he was
clearly entitled, thus making certain Wright left with a
burning grievance.* His foolhardy attempt to establish a
stud farm further endangered his already precarious
"—*Before entering MI-5, Wright had worked some dozen
years as a research scientist for the Royal Navy. It was
agreed that this service would count as time in establishing
the amount of his pension. However, upon his retirement,
Wright was told that for some arcane bureaucratic reason MI-
5 could not incorporate the earlier service in determining
his final pension sum and when he complained this was a

violation of trust, he was waved off. The actual sum he
received was unbelieveably small.

73
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

financial situation. In desperation, he finally was forced
to move to Tasmania where he hoped his stud-farm endeavors
might prosper and conditions were better for his health,
which had been worsening. Now he was beyond the reach of
the Official Secrets Act. At about this time, when his
financial condition had become truly serious, the call came
from Lord Rothschild precipitating events that were to wound

him, Wright, and the British government.

It will be argued, on the one hand, that the rigid rule
is that an officer does not break an oath to which he has
solemnly given his word and that therefore what Wright did
was both morally repugnant and a criminal action. On the
other hand, the British government and his service by
denying him his legitimate pension rights had done Wright a
wrong, for which under the secrecy arrangements obtaining in
Britain there was no recourse.. In this whole matter, it
should also be borne in mind that Wright was no left-wing
agitator nor fuzzy liberal; on the contrary he was a far
right, rock-hard Tory. That his own kind and his service
would so mutilate him was a shock to Wright spiritually from
which he never recovered. His actions from that time
forward are out of character. They are probably best
summarized by his remark at the conclusion of his testimony
at the Australian trial; as he descended from the witness

box, Wright was heard to mutter "That will fix the
bastards."

It does not take a mighty imagination to visualize how
the MI-5 management could have prevented the disaster into
which they had carelessly maneuvered themselves. First,
they should have given Wright his full pension; second,
maintained contact with him seeking his "advice" from time
to time, thus keeping him in a mood where he felt he was
still a part of the service even if retired; and finally

74
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

“CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

tried to deflect any attempt to publicize his beliefs. Not
every retiree wants or needs such attention, but Wright
should have been seen as a special case on the grounds of
his pension denial if no other. True, the MI-5 minder would
have had to suffer a lot of hot air about penetration and
the guilt of Hollis, but as time went on this would have
wound down. As Wright concedes on the penultimate page of
Spycatcher: “One man's view, as I now realize, is in the
end worthless. Only facts will ever clear up the eternal

mystery."

5
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

‘GONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

The Spycatcher Trial by Malcolm Turnbull; William Heinemann
Australia (Richmond, Victoria), 1988--227 pages

This book is a useful antidote to Chapman Pincher's The
Spycatcher Affair and while not required reading is
recommended as an entertaining and reasonably truthful
account of how a brash young Australian barrister destroyed
the British government's case, which in truth was never very
strong. The author, Malcolm Turnbull, was thirty-two years
old at the time of the trial, a legal circus that attracted
worldwide attention. Turnbull was educated in Australia and
afterward won a Rhodes scholarship to Oxford for two years
during which time he was employed by the "London Times." He
married well socially in Australia and had excellent
political connections, which proved of immense help during
the case. A shrewd observer of human foibles and the
fickleness of the media, Turnbull employed a number of
stratagems to outwith’ the British legal team, even to the
outfitting of Peter Wright with a drover's hat in order to
give him an Australian character (he also prudently got him
Australian citizenship before the trial began).
Additionally he employed a shrewd English solicitor from
Heinemann's London staff to give him special insight into
the British legal thicket. He also took on Paul Greengrass,
Wright's ghost writer, so that he would possess an inside
view of what had propelled Wright to his activities of the
past few years. Greengrass's role was especially important
because Wright's memory was failing and he was also inclined

to change his story or embroider on occasion.

Peter Wright's Spycatcher received more legal attention
than almost any other book of its kind in history. The
trial involving its author in sydney, Australia, in the
winter of 1986 represented an extraordinary nexus between
the secret security and intelligence services, the law, and

76
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

\
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

the media. What began as an attempt by MI-5 to muzzle one
of their former officers ended up with the British
government on trial in Australia. In 1985, frustrated by
his failure to persuade the British government to act
against what he considered continued Soviet penetration of
the British intelligence and security services, Wright
signed a contract with Heinemann's (publishers) of Australia
to publish his dossier of "facts." He was motivated largely
by a desire for vengeance against his former employers for
what he considered their malicious refusal to give him his
proper pension, but he was also hopeful of making enough
money to keep his stud farm afloat. (Wright had sampled the
largess that came as his share of Pincher's book Their Trade
is Treachery and he likely found it good.) However, his
incapacity to write anything but the worst beauracratic
style led to his hiring Greengrass, whom he had met during
the filming of the related Granada television show, to be

his ghost writer.

Within weeks, news of the book leaked out and the legal
battle was begun. The British Prime Minister, Mrs.
Thatcher, presumably on the advice of MI-5, pursued Wright
through the courts in Australia, Britain, and other parts of
the world. Wright, equally dogged, with the support of his
publisher, remained determined that his book should appear
in print. When Turnbull took up the case in early 1986 the
betting odds were he had a 1 percent chance of winning. The
ensuing three-week trial in sydney and, in particular,
Turnbull's brilliant cross-examination of British cabinet
Secretary, Sir Robert Armstrong, is the centerpiece of the
book. The trial turned the case in favor Wright and the
attendant publicity made Spvcatcher an international best
seller. It is known to have made Wright into a millionaire

several times over.

77
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

For intelligence officers there is an especially
compelling story told (pages 53-55) concerning the use of
the "old boy" network in a backdoor attempt to make the
injunction watertight. Turnbull learned from an English
friend of the British government's intention to request the
help of the Australian government to stop publication of
Wright's book. This was to be done via intelligence links
between the two countries. Turnbull immediately through his
excellent political connections determined that this story
(which originated from a conversation between two senior
British officials overheard in the pissoir of the Garrick
Club in London) was true. Furthermore, it appeared that
ASIO and the Department of Defense were very keen to
demonstrate their loyalty to Britain and the Western
intelligence "club." ‘Turnbull immediately fired off a
letter to the Prime Minister, then Bob Hawke, and the
Minister for External Affairs, Bill Hayden, and others
emphasizing that “Australia should not run to Mrs.
Thatcher's whistle; it should not protect Britain from the
consequences of its past crimes; and so forth." It had the
desired effect. Although Australia externally appeared to
side with Britain in its policy of trying to stop the
publication of Wright's book, its intervention was to be as

innocuous as possible.

Turnbull's book provides a full and often amusing
account of this celebrated legal event. He explains
Wright's motives in publishing and those of the British
government in relentlessly pursuing the case. Turnbull's
story could easily be the plot for a successful thriller
film as he recreates the drama of the trial that caught the

imagination of the world.

78
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

The Spycatcher Affair by Chapman Pincher; St. Martin's Press
(New York, N.¥.), 1988--305 pages

This book was first published in England under the
title The Web of Deception in 1987, and is one of three
major works dealing with the famous "Spycatcher" trial, the
other two being Molehunt by Nigel West and The Spycatcher
Trial by Malcolm Turnbull. All three are of considerable
interest, but only the Pincher book is required reading for
understanding the whole hodgepodge of events that began with
James Angleton's leakage to the Tory MP Jonathan Aitken in
December 1979. As Pincher was intimately involved with
Wright in an earlier book called Their Trade is Treachery,
he was obviously a major figure in the Australian trial,
particularly when Turnbull, the Australian lawyer, attempted
to prove that Pincher had corrupted Wright with money to
obtain the first bits of information on the Hollis case and
then allegedly cheated Wright of his monetary rewards. On
both of these points, good as Turnbull was, he failed to
make a watertight case; yet the charges were vastly
embarrassing to Pincher.

The real issue, however, in the Australian trial was
the legitimacy of the British government's case together
with the veracity of its major representative, the Cabinet
Secretary, Sir Robert Armstrong, who had been sent from
London to speak to the court, or--as Sir Robert himself

admitted in an unguarded moment-:

"to be the fall guy." In
the end both suffered much embarrassment and, worse still,
they ended up losing the case. Meantime, the trial had
generated unprecedented international interest, so much in
fact that an American publisher decided to produce Wright's
book in the United States, which ensured it a spectacular

financial success thus making Wright a rich man.

79
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

To understand this very complicated story, it is
necessary to start at the beginning, which is with James
Angleton. In December 1979 Jonathan Aitken, a Tory MP and
son of Lord Beaverbrook, was in Washington on a private
visit during which he saw Angleton. The Blunt affair had
just broken with Mrs. Thatcher's confirmation of his role as
a Soviet agent. In a conversation with Angleton, the
retired CIA veteran warned Aitken there was more to come and
he believed there must be a full inquiry into both MI-5 and
MI-6. Aitken was astonished and asked why. According to
his story, Angleton said he would think of a way of
answering the question and that perhaps Mrs. Thatcher should
be warned. When Aitken returned to London he found a letter
to him in which Angleton provided the names of Arthur Martin
and Christopher Phillpotts, retired from MI-5 and MI-6,
respectively. Aitken asked them to the House of Commons for
a drink and learned from them about the Hollis and Mitchell
cases. On the basis of this information, Aitken then
delivered a warning letter marked "confidential and

personal" to the Prime Minister at Downing Street.

Aitken later contacted Pincher, whom he had known for
years, and revealed what he had learned of the Hollis and
Mitchell cases, even going so far as to show Pincher the
confidential letter he had delivered to Mrs. Thatcher.
Pincher states that the letter was detailed and included the
chargé "that our security Services were penetrated by Soviet
as sat a far more secret level than at which Philby,
Burges, MacLean, and Blunt were operating." Last it went on
to xfame as the principal secret agents, Sir Roger Hollis and

+ Graham Mitchell. (A copy of this letter is attached to
this summary.)

Pincher was deeply involved in the basics of the
Spycatcher trial from the start because of his association

with Peter Wright, which began with a meeting at Lord

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Rothschild's home in Cambridge on 4 September 1980. Lord
Rothschild had invited Pincher to come to his home in order
to meet Peter Wright, although at the time Pincher had no
idea who Wright was. Wright at this meeting explained to
Pincher his past employment with MI-5, his move to Tasmania,
his precarious financial position, and his raging belief MI-
5 had been and still was penetrated by Soviet agents. He
noted Andrew Boyle's success with his book on Blunt, which
had flushed out the old spy. Wright said he wanted to do
the same thing and was writing a book on Soviet penetration
of MI-5, but his bad health and lack of financial resources
endangered its completion. To get Pincher's attention,
Wright spilled some of his secrets before him. Pincher
quickly agreed, after digesting these initial nuggets of
information, he would assist Wright on his book. A
financial agreement was made and Pincher went to Tasmania
where over three weeks he debriefed Wright thoroughly. He
then returned to England where he did further research and,
writing furiously, had a completed manuscript in hand by the

end of 1980.

The role of the late Lord Rothschild, who paid for
Wright's air ticket from Australia to England and return,
remains clouded to this day. Lord Rothschild was in 1980 a
pillar of respectability in English life. He had served in
MI-5 through World War II and earned the George Cross for
heroism, had headed one of the largest merchant banks in the
United Kingdom, and had served as the head of a brain trust
for Prime Minister Heath. What then had prompted him to
bring Wright to England and pass him along to Pincher?
Several explanations have been made, which need not be
examined here, but none offer a sensible answer. Whatever
the case, these bizarre events tarnished the reputation of

Lord Rothschild in his last years.

81
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

But if the Rothschild role appears peculiar, the
developments that followed .Pincher's selection of a
publisher and their subsequent actions are genuinely mind-
boggling. ‘The publisher selected by Pincher was Sidgwick
and Jackson. After reading the synopsis provided them, they
immediately said the book would breach the Official Secrets
Act and the risk of publishing such material was very high.
Because of the sensitive content of the manuscript, every
precaution had to be taken so that MI-5 would not learn of
Pincher's text for fear of immediate retributive action by
the authorities. Eventually, the publisher sought advice
from a distinguished person who occasionally served in
confidence as an arbiter of taste and prudence concerning
new book projects. The publisher and Pincher agreed to
accept this person's advice and abide by his decision.
Pincher keeps the identity of this person, whom he titles

the "Arbiter," a secret.

Within a few days the "Arbiter" called for more
information on the book from Pincher, which he provided.
Throughout these negotiations, Pincher kept Wright's role
secret and very complicated arrangements were made to pay
Wright his share of money from the book via an offshore bank
in the Netherlands Antilles. The "Arbiter" was never
informed of Wright's role in the book and Lord Rothschild

distanced himself from the entire project.

A further curious development occurred when the
“Arbiter" introduced a friend upon whose advice he much
relied, namely, Sir Arthur ("Dickie") Franks, then Chief of
MI-6. The role of Franks in this affair is equally 41
mysterious Ye that of the "Arbiter" but his identity became
known at the Sydney trial. In the trial, evidence was
produced that Franks told MI-5 that Pincher was producing a
book about the Security Service in March 1981. About this

time, Sir Robert Armstrong was advised (probably by MI-5) of

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

the book's contents. Meantime, Pincher was pushing things
forward as rapidly as possjble: the book was being edited
and arrangements were being made to sell portions to the
daily press. So Pincher was vastly relieved when it

appeared in the book shops in late spring 1981.

It was an immediate sensation, particularly because
within days it forced Mrs. Thatcher to again admit, as in
the case of Blunt, a very sensitive matter of great security
importance had been kept secret. She announced that both
the Director General of MI-5 and his deputy had been
investigated as possible Soviet agents, but in neither case
had proof been found as possible Soviet agents, but in
neither case had proof been found to substantiate these
charges. Sir Roger Hollis was dead, but Graham Mitchell was
alive living in retirement in Surrey. While the
announcement was embarrassing to the British government, it
was devastating to Mitchell and his family. These
repercussions are brushed aside by Pincher who claims that
such personal tragedies are merely the inevitable result of
investigative journalism and part of the price people must

pay for freedom of the press.

Much of this book is devoted to assailing his erstwhile
colleague, Peter Wright, for what he contends were Wright's
false statements to the court. He also denounces the
Australian legal system, Justice Powell (the judge in the
case), and especially Malcolm Turnbull, the brash,
aggressive young Australian lawyer who handled the case for
Heinemann's. This is entirely understandable because the
evidence Turnbull brought forward was damaging to Pincher's
already suspect reputation. Pincher is also offended by the
manner in which the main British government representative,
Sir Robert Armstrong, was treated, but he also has to admit
that Armstrong's performance, which largely resulted from a

weak British government case, left something to be desired,

83
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

especially after his famous admission to the judge, on one
occasion, that "perhaps I was being economical with the
truth." Despite the wounds Pincher claims to have suffered,
the pain is much reduced by the considerable bounty he
enjoyed from a huge revival in sales of his original book on
Hollis--Their Trade is Treachery--which as a result of the
trial publicity went into five editions. Wright was not the
only person to profit vastly from the Spycatcher trial; it

also made Pincher a very rich man.

Meantime MI-5 was hauled over the coals by the media,
left and right, for being incompetent, allegedly penetrated
by hordes of Soviet agents, for numerous illegal activities,
and for a lack of responsibility to the Prime Minister.
Although the whole affair embarrassed the Thatcher
government, it did not damage her politically, especially
since she had a very safe majority in the Commons. Her
position was also improved when it was found the Labor Party
leader, Neil Kinnock, had covertly tried to make political
profit through his contacts with Turnbull in Australia,
which exposed by the press left Kinnock very red-faced. As
noted earlier one whose reputation suffered considerably was
Lord Rothschild, who emerged from the affair with his
prestige much lowered. However, the public person who
suffered most was clearly Sir Robert Armstrong whose long
career ended on this inglorious note. Before the trial, he
was considered a sure bet upon retirement to become Provost
of Eton College, one of England's most prestigious posts.
The trial in Australia demolished that possibility. Mrs.
Thatcher tried to ease the pain by making him a life peer
the following year, but the public image of him will always
be one of the supercilious "Pom" trussed up and being
barbecued over a hot fire under the direction of a sneering

Malcolm Turnbull.

84
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

“CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Pincher's book is a transparent attempt to put himself
and his various literary activities in the best light and
exonerate himself from any association with illegal or shady
dealings. In this he hardly succeeds, particularly as he
fails to cast a critical eye upon the machinations of
Whitehall, which in the end permitted his book Their Trade
is Treachery to be published while Wright's later effort
brought down the weight of the entire British government
against publishing Spycatcher. Pincher offers no
explanation for Lord Rothschild's crucial role nor does he
explain how and why Sir Arthur Franks became involved. He
does not identify the "Arbiter" who clearly foresaw storm
clouds on the horizon, but did not recommend killing the

book. All these mysteries and many more remain unanswered.
Although not intended, perhaps the Australian trial was

a fitting conclusion to this mess. All in all, it isa

cautionary tale.

8!
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Postscript A

Two books concerned with counterintelligence history
have been added to the group reviewed here. They are Robert
Lamphere's The FBJ/KGB War: A Special Agent's Story,
published in 1986, and Gordon Brook-Shepherd's The Storm
Birds: Soviet Post-War Defectors, published in 1988.
Although they appeared in the period when many books dealing
with CIA and British counterintelligence issues focused on
the Golitsyn-Nosenko controversy, these two works concern
themselves entirely with providing an historical account of
the counterintelligence benefits flowing from defectors and
from such other exceptional events as a break into the KGB

cyphers achieved at the end of World War II.

Lamphere's book concentrates on the FBI's work against
the Soviet intelligence services' operations in the United
States, which although suspected for some time was proven
beyond doubt with the defection in Canada of Igor Gouzenko
and in America of Elizabeth Bentley and others who had been
involved in the Soviet spy apparatus. Their astounding
revelations were in turn supplemented by an unusual
accomplishment in the cryptographic field. Lamphere arrived
in the Washington field office around the time the
cryptographic wizard, Meredith Gardner, had achieved
a break into the KGB cypher system and had the good fortune
to be assigned to the National Security Agency (NSA) as
Gardner's principal FBI liaison. Using the fragmentary but
very valuable information from this breakthrough, Lamphere
participated in uncovering some of the major soviet
espionage rings then in operation. His work included
dealing with Philby, the ace spy for the Soviets, as well “1”
interrogating the atomic scientist Klaus Fuchs, pursuing
Harry Gold, assisting in the Judith Coplon trial, and many

other memorable cases of the immediate post-war period. A

86
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

series of conflicts with J. Edgar Hoover led to Lamphere's
early resignation from the Bureau. His excellent memory was
supplemented by access to FBI records, and NSA, after
considerable pressure was brought to bear, gave Lamphere
permission to describe in elementary detail Gardner's
magnificent achievement against the KGB cypher system. It
is altogether a gripping story well and accurately told.

Brook~Shepherd's excellent history of the post-war
Soviet defectors also benefited from assistance given the
author by the British intelligence and security services and
the CIA. As a result, he has produced a highly accurate and
complete story about most of the major Soviet defectors all
of whom but one (Shevchenko) had served with either the KGB
or GRU. He has eschewed the controversial issues upon which
many of the other books in this collection are concerned,
although he devotes a chapter each to Anatole Golitsyn and
Yuri Nosenko. Each of these men is given objective and fair
consideration. Brook-Shephard's two summaries are probably
the most accurate evaluation available to the public and go
far to make the two men and the issues connected with them

comprehensible.

These two histories are largely accurate and together
constitute a mine of important information on the early
defectors, both American and Soviet, as well as detail on
later defectors such as Gordievsky, who provided inside
information at critical periods in history. The two books
also illustrate how important the defectors were not only in
helping the Western intelligence and security services but
also in alerting the public to the Soviet threat. Both

books deserve reading by counterintelligence officers.

87
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

The _FBI/KGB War: A Special Agent's Story by Robert J.
Lamphere and Tom Shachtman; Random House (New York, N.Y¥.),

1986--320 pages

Reading Robert Lamphere's book one gains the impression
he is a stubborn and determined man who fights to win. This
trait is amply demonstrated by his battle with the National
Security Agency (NSA) to obtain permission to tell part of
the story about the American break into the KGB cyphers
during World War II and the consequences which flowed from
this event in the fight against Soviet espionage and
subversion. lLamphere obviously has an excellent memory
(supplemented perhaps by his diaries and notes): but to
describe some events in this story of his work for the FBI
he required the permission of NSA. Although the break into
the KGB cyphers for a brief period in wartime had been
described in some detail in Chapman Pincher's Their Trade is
Treachery (1981), which was based upon the detailed
knowledge of the event possessed by Peter Wright, who was
Pincher's informant, NSA with strong support of its British
counterpart, GCHQ, steadfastly refused permission for
Lamphere to reveal from his personal experience how

effective the material derived from the break had been.

In retrospect it seems foolish for NSA and GCHQ to have
refused Lamphere's initial request for permission to
chronicle the events flowing from the cypher break,
especially as it was essential to the rest of his story
about FBI operations, but the whole story had been so
closely held that it was difficult to alter an attitude
strongly held over four decades. Lamphere understood this
and in his narrative reveals only the barest details, being
so circumspect he does not even mention the codenames by
which the project was known (BRIDE, DRUG and VENONA in that
order over the years). It seems probable the FBI played a

88
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

role in pressuring NSA to yield on the issue as it is clear
the FBI gave Lamphere assistance themselves by allowing him
access to some of his memoranda, special reports, and so
forth. Lamphere is to be commended for his having persisted
in his effort to include the VENONA story as it is central
to much of the book.

The author entered the FBI fresh from law school in
1941 and was in due course assigned to the New York field
office where he was put to work on the Soviet espionage
squad. It was in the New York field office that Lamphere,
obviously a disciplined, intelligent, and hard working FBI
officer, got his baptism into the intricacies of Soviet
espionage and subversion in the United States. Here he
experienced at first hand the results flowing from the
information obtained from the first two defectors, Igor
Gouzenko in Canada and Elizabeth Bentley in America. From
the older, more experienced hands he learned how to conduct
an investigation, do surveillance, consider the legal
aspects, and all the many details of a special agent's
responsibilities. By the end of the war, Lamphere was fully
occupied with Soviet cases and well on his way to becoming
an expert in that field. Especially interesting are his
accounts of meetings with such old time Communist luminaries
as Ruth Fischer and Hede Massing, both of whom provided
vital background information on Gerhard Eisler in whose
trial Lamphere played an important role as assistant to
William Hitz, the prosecuting attorney. Lamphere's
autobiography is such good history one wishes for more
detail on many of the cases he describes, although it can
usually be obtained from other accounts that have been

published.

In the fall of 1947 at the special request of William
K. Harvey, then a major figure in the Soviet section of the
Washington field office, Lamphere transferred from New York

89
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

to the nation's capital, only to find that Harvey in the
meantime had been pushed oyt of the FBI and gone to work for
CIA. What Lamphere does not say, but is important in the
VENONA story, is that it was this development which gave the
CIA its first knowledge of the NSA break into the Soviet
cyphers. Prior to this time, the FBI had carefully
restricted knowledge of the BRIDE material (as VENONA was
known in those days) to their British counterpart, MI-5, who
had been brought into the closed group by GCHQ after having
gotten agreement from NSA. Not long after, MI-6 was brought
in largely because of the ongoing investigation into an
espionage lead relating to someone in the Foreign Office.
As coordination was required on occasion in Washington, it
was necessary to consult with Peter Dwyer then the MI-6
representative who was acting for both MI-5 and MI-6 in the
British Embassy as no MI-5 officer had yet been assigned.
This is how it happened that Dwyer's successor, H.A.R. "Kim"
Philby, was indoctrinated into the system although by the
time Philby got to Washington, an MI-5 officer was en poste.
Lamphere states that Philby immediately gave the precious
secret to his Soviet masters (which is true) but then goes
on to say it had been given much earlier by Sir Roger Hollis
(which is not proven). This is the one egregious error in
Lamphere's book as he uncritically accepts the judgment of
Chapman Pincher in his book Their Trade is Treachery, whose
message is that Hollis was a Soviet agent but provides no
substantial proof. He apparently did not when writing the
book have the benefit of Gordievsky's knowledge on the
subject, but he ought to have given some value to the word
of Prime Minister Thatcher who stated to the British
Parliament that the official investigation had found no
evidence to support the spy allegation against Hollis. He
even gets wrong the period when Hollis was Director General,
giving it as 1952-56 when it actually was 1953-65. As
Lamphere gives credit to James Angleton for having

critically read the book, it is astonishing that this major

90
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

‘CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

error went uncorrected. In fact, although Lamphere cannot
be blamed for being ignorant of the event, knowledge of
BRIDE reached the Soviets in 1948 from an ASA officer named
William Weisband, about two years before they had this
information confirmed by Philby.

One of the most fascinating parts of this excellent
history is Lamphere's story of how BRIDE was developed.
Without going into detail here, the person who made the
breakthrough was a brilliant American named Meredith
Gardner, then working at Arlington Hall, the headquarters of
the Army Security Agency (ASA), the forerunner of NSA. When
Lamphere arrived from New York, the breakouts were few and
not well understood. However, Lamphere asked permission to
work on them and in this way met Gardner, whose genius was
immediately apparent to the FBI officer. They began working
together and became a formidable team. From this beginning
flowed information that was of the utmost help to the FBI in
its effort to understand and run to ground the myriad of
Soviet agent networks then in existence in America.

Lamphere had the intelligence to see the potential of this
product and developed it in a manner by which it could be
used without endangering the source, although the Soviets by
this time were aware their communications had been
compromised for a certain period. His superiors had the
good sense to comprehend this development and even Hoover
seems to have allowed this section to operate without his

making the usual unhelpful intrusions.

At the same time that Gardner and Lamphere were trying
to make the BRIDE breakthrough a viable tool against the
Soviet networks, the CIA was just getting established.
Lamphere pulls no punches in describing how Hoover did his
best to hamper its development, even to the point of playing
up to the British services against the Agency. Lamphere's

whole approach to Hoover is refreshing. He is, on the one

91
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

‘CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

hand, frank in describing Hoover's faults of playing
politics endlessly as well,as his tyrannical and often
irrational administrative practices. On the other hand, he
respects the manner in which Hoover guarded the Bureau's
rights and managed to keep it on an even keel despite fire
from many quarters. But Lamphere recognized the need for an
intelligence service that must operate abroad and saw that
the Bureau and the Agency were working toward the same goal.
High on Lamphere's list of Hoover's vengeful actions was the
manner in which he directed the liaison with CIA. He put it
entirely in the hands of a devoted sycophant, Zeke de Loach,

with the objective to obstruct the Agency wherever possible aa

De Loach from the start tried to make everything as we
difficult as he could, which created many problems-- /
particularly as his Agency opposite number was a young / /
woman. Eventually de Loach was replaced by the widely
pa

respected and revered Sam Papich, but de Loach continued to
create difficulties for the liaison. Lamphere makes no
secret of his feeling that this was one of the most shameful
and damaging of Hoover's many transgressions, particularly
because it was perpetuated at a time when the closest
counterintelligence cooperation was required to meet the
increasing demands placed on both FBI and CIA by the
burgeoning cold war.

Reading Lamphere's stories about how the Bureau
operated, one wonders if the men in it were really mature
adults or were slightly psychotic. An example is Hoover's
handling of relations with MI-5 on the Fuchs case. MI-5's
William Skardon had broken Fuchs and obtained his confession
of having worked for the Soviets, but many aspects of his
American communist associations remained unanswered. Hoover
wanted Fuchs questioned by one of his officers, but MI-5
replied the Attorney General of Great Britain could not
permit this while Fuchs' appeal was being considered. At

word of this, Hoover flew into a rage but he could not budge

92
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

‘CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

London. Eventually, Fuchs' appeal was denied and MI-5
indicated the way was clear. Lamphere's superior selected
him to do the debriefing, but Hoover intervened at the last
moment with instructions that Hugh Clegg, a Bureau officer
who had done liaison with MI-5 during the war, should
accompany Lamphere to be watchdog over the British,
Lamphere, and the London FBI representative, John Cimperman.
This was an unhappy situation as the British disliked Clegg
from their wartime experience with the man and Lamphere
resented this watchdog tagging along. In the end, cool
heads carried the day, Skardon and Cimperman letting
Lamphere do the questioning and keeping Clegg in the
background. It was during this debriefing that Lamphere got
Fuchs to identify Harry Gold as his major contact in the
atom spy ring. But Hoover's intervention had produced a
great deal of needless acrimony. It is a testimony to
Lamphere's skill that he brought the trip to a successful

conclusion.

Lamphere continued to manage the exploitation of the
VENONA material, including the clues that led to the
eventual arrest of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg. The cypher
material was supplemented by immensely valuable information
which was coming from defector sources such as Gouzenko and
especially former American communists Bentley, Budenz,
Chambers, and so on. It is gratifying to note that during
this time, Lamphere was allowed on occasion to lecture to
CIA training courses (perhaps without Hoover's knowledge) .
This must have been of immense help to the young CIA, then
only beginning to learn the arcane art of
counterintelligence. Another example of what was likely a
behind-the-scenes cooperative effort was Lamphere's plan
formulated with James Angleton to kidnap Joseph Katz, a much
vaunted Soviet spy, from Israel. The plan was discovered by
Hoover who put an immediate end to it. Later the CIA and
FBI cooperated in London, when Katz.came to reside in

93
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

“CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Britain, on a scheme to debrief him (with MI-5 knowledge and
help) but Katz remained ungooperative and took his secrets

with him to the grave.

Although this book has a few errors and the story has
perhaps been gilded a bit by Lamphere, it nevertheless
remains one of the best histories of counterintelligence in
America. It is especially valuable because it covers a
period when there was intense activity flowing from the
VENONA breakthrough and the defectors' information that
revealed to the American authorities rock-hard evidence that
their wartime ally had been spying on them for two decades
and had in fact accelerated this activity during the war
when the Soviet Union and America were allies. Despite the
excitement and satisfaction deriving from such important
work, Lamphere eventually became fed up with Hoover's
irrational management and in 1955 left the Bureau for a
successful career with the Veterans Administration. Later
he retired to have yet another successful business career
with a major insurance company. A man of many parts and
obvious ability, Lamphere's book should be required reading

for counterintelligence officers.

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

‘CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

The Storm Birds: Soviet Post-War Defectors by Gordon Brook-
Shepherd; Weidenfeld and Nicolson (London), 1988--303 pages

Gordon Brook-Shepherd, a British foreign correspondent
turned historian, has with publication of this book done the
best work of his long career. As intelligence history
dealing with Soviet post-war defectors, it is not only an
exciting read but is factually accurate in almost every
respect. Compressed within its 303 pages is the story of
how the Western intelligence services, largely denied the
possibility of obtaining information from within the Soviet
Union, came to realize the enormous intelligence value of

those Soviets who risk x lives to make the leap to

freedom. More importa the author has immersed himself
thoroughly in the voluminous detail about the defectors so
that he comprehends the events which influenced the secret
world of intelligence, with the result his judgments are
objective and fair. The author likely achieved this kind of
professional knowledge partly from work on his earlier book,
The Storm Petrels, which recounted the story of pre-war
defectors from the Soviet Union. With this experience plus
generous help from CIA and the British intelligence
services, Brook-Shepherd has written a fascinating account
of how and why so many senior Soviet intelligence officials

defected and their impact on the West.

The author deals with his complex subject in
chronological fashion starting with the first post-war
defector, Igor Gouzenko, in Canada. It is difficult today
to comprehend how little knowledge the West, governments as
well as people, possessed about Soviet espionage and
subversive activity prior to Gouzenko's defection in
September 1945. This event and the revelations that flowed
from it stunned both statesmen and the public. It had an

_ enormous effect in America where it was coupled with

defections of Americans such as Elizabeth Bentley, Louis

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Budenz, Whittaker Chambers, etc. from communism, all of whom
made a contribution to the,growing mass of evidence about
Soviet illegal activities. In Canada where Prime Minister
Mackenzie King seemed almost unable to grasp the enormity of
Soviet transgressions, it had the salutary effect of
establishing the groundwork for a security service in the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police. In Britain the Gouzenko
information also had an electric affect, but agents such as
Philby were often able behind the scenes to blunt its force.
(For example, it is known that Philby managed single-
handedly, without drawing attention to himself, to prevent a
major position paper urging stronger action against the

Soviets from reaching the Prime Minister.)

Although Gouzenko was the first Soviet intelligence
officer to defect post-war and the impact of his disclosures
are almost beyond measure, the author does not include him
amongst the post-war defectors he describes as “giants." He
defines a giant as one who dominated the scene in the sense
that his contribution went far beyond his normal
professional assets to play a certain strategic role in
post-war history. The three he places in this category are
Penkovsky, “Farewell", and Gordievsky. All the defectors he
examines were intelligence officers of either the KGB or GRU
with but one exception: Arkady Shevchenko, the one-time
Under Secretary-General at the United Nations. He was

included because of his personal and political significance.

Brook-Shepherd also examines the reasons for Soviet
defections and, as might be expected, he concludes there
were several, some of which are repeated many times. A
primary and nearly constant reason was fear--often sheer
terror at what fate awaited them upon their return to

Moscow.

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

They also shared a common reaction to their experience
when they visited the outs{de world: shock at the grey
misery of the Soviet Union in contrast to the freedom and
affluence of the West (even in the old days, the Soviet-
occupied zone of Austria seemed like Heaven compared to what
they left behind in the USSR). This contrast with the
Soviet homeland shook the faith of many in the Soviet system
despite the fact they belonged to a very privileged class
that enjoyed lavish privileges denied the ordinary Soviet
citizen. Thus the seed was often planted early for
defection, but it often took some other more immediate event
to trigger the act itself. These sometimes were marital
problems, petty disputes or jealousies within the Soviet
community (always a very isolated group), or simply the hope
for a better life in the free world. Whatever the case, all
the reasons taken together reveal at bottom a disgust with
and hatred for the oppressive regime, which boils down to

the fact the basic reason for defection was ideological.

Gouzenko's difficulty in finding any person or agency
who would listen to his story spotlighted a gaping
deficiency in Western governments, especially in the
intelligence and security services. During the war when the
Soviet Union was adulated as an heroic ally, there were very
few defectors. One who attempted defection, victor
Kravchenko (not an intelligence officer), had a difficult
time escaping from the Soviet Purchasing Mission in
Washington in 1944 and was lucky to have survived. His
defection was little publicized and only after the war when
attitudes changed toward the USSR was his story published.
Other attempted defections had a less happy ending.

The most famous of these, of course, is that of
Konstantin Volkov, which is described in some detail. It
was almost certainly Philby's most desperate and successful

coup. Volkov had approached the British consulate in

97
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

“CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Istanbul shortly after the cessation of hostilities with an
offer of information which,, had he not been neutralized by
Philby's quick action, undoubtedly would have lead to the
exposure of all the Soviet agents in Britain. Another case
in which Philby succeeded in derailing the information if
not the informant was that of Ishmael Akhmedov, a GRU
officer who defected to the Turks during war-time. Philby
later during his tour as MI-6 chief in Istanbul prevented
Akhmedov's information from reaching the West except in very
truncated form. The episode highlights a much neglected
aspect of the damage Philby inflicted on the West. CIA
eventually got access to Akhmedov, but it was not until ten

years after his defection!

The last example of Philby's murderous activity on the
KGB's behalf concerns a young English-speaking GRU officer
named Vladimir Skripkin. This little known case began in
Tokyo in early 1946 when the young officer made overtures to
both the English and the Americans. For some reason he
received no encouragement from the American side, and as he
was soon to be posted back to Moscow, he made another pass
at the British leaving with them an address in Moscow where
he asked to be contacted. Upon his return, he was seized by
the KGB and never heard of again. Two KGB defectors
(Rastvorov and Deriabin) told CIA later that skripkin had
been given away by a British intelligence source, who almost

certainly was Philby.

The book then turns to a series of defections in 1954
touched off in part by the news of the execution of Lavrenti
Beriya (who had been head of Stalin's secret police). By
this time, the Western services--CIA in particular--were on
keen alert for defectors and had improved the system for
receiving and expeditiously handling them. The first in
this wave of defectors was Yuri Rastvorov, a KGB officer who
first made overtures to the British but changed his mind and

98
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

chose CIA. This event was followed by the defection of KGB
officer Peter Deriabin in yienna in which his escape from
the Soviets was skillfully managed by CIA. The author
provides a detailed account of Deriabin's KGB background
that demonstrates how valuable his information was to the
West. This is followed by the account of Nikolai Kokhlov's
defection. Kokhlov had been dispatched by the KGB to West
Germany for the purpose of assassinating the leader of the
NTS, an anti-Soviet organization. Kokhlov instead turned
himself over to the CIA, which then launched a series of
operations too complicated to be recounted here, some of
which worked and some failed. The CIA made no secret of the
defector's assassination mission, developing much anti-
Soviet propaganda from it. Kokhlov wrote a book about the
affair after which he was resettled in America where he made
@ successful career in academe. Finally, there is the
harrowing story of Vladimir and Evdokia Petrov, the KGB
husband and wife team in the Soviet Embassy in Canberra,
Australia, who with the assistance of the Australian
security service (ASIO) managed to escape to freedom
although the wife was nearly kidnapped back to the USSR.

The clumsy intervention of the KGB security goons was
captured by photographers and the picture of Mrs. Petrov
being dragged shoeless across the airport tarmac to a
waiting plane gave the Soviets a very black eye. From their
long service, mostly as cypher clerks, they were able to
provide the West with valuable information including the
first knowledge the "missing diplomats" Burgess and Maclean
were in Moscow. Like Gouzenko in Canada, they also revealed
a number of KGB agents in the Australian government and
trade unions. The successful management of the defection,
though a close thing, gave the fledgling ASIO a special

boost and put it in the league of major security services.

There then follow two chapters devoted to the Penkovsky
case. This is a well done summary but is now overtaken by

99
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

the recently published (1992) and more exhaustive study
called The Spy Who Saved the World by Jerrold Schecter and
Peter Deriabin. Next follow the stories of the two most
controversial defectors in history: Anatole Golitsyn and
Yuri Nosenko. This is a true test of the author's ability
to analyze a vast amount of information and testimony.
Despite the complexity of this affair, he has done a good
job of sorting out the facts and arriving at fair judgments.
He obviously had help on the Golitsyn chapter from MI-5 and
MI-6 and perhaps some guidance from CIA. He puts Golitsyn
in proper perspective both as to the value of his product
and his later career as troublemaker, especially for the
Agency. He does the same with Nosenko, dealing fairly with
the false charges made by Edward J. Epstein and others about
the Oswald part of Nosenko's testimony. It would have been
helpful perhaps had someone in the Agency told the author
that Admiral Turner in 1978 had given Nosenko a completely
clean bill of health and every Director since has accepted
that conclusion including William Casey. However, Brook-
Shepherd's account of the Nosenko case, brief and to the
point, should leave no doubt but that the defector was and

is genuine.

Under a chapter titled "Pluses and Minuses" the case of
Oleg Lyalin in Britain takes first place, particularly as
this KGB officer's defection triggered the famous
deportation of 105 Soviet diplomats from the United Kingdom.
The Minuses are the several Soviet intelligence officers who
within a time frame of one year (1971-72) defected to the
Americans and then in varying periods redefected to Russia.
The cases are not worthy of detailed consideration except
for one, a young KGB lieutenant named Artush Oganesyan, who
brought with him when he defected by crossing the Soviet
border into Turkey the latest issue of the KGB's "Watch
List". This was the annually revised catalogue of Soviet
citizens of all sorts--ballet dancers, opera singers,

100
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

scientists, athletes, as well as officials and intelligence
personnel--who had failed to return from visits to the West.
Additionally, Oganesyan had much other valuable information
which he provided, but in the eyes of James Angelton it was
the "Watch List" which subjected him to suspicion because
there in the "Watch List" was the name of Yuri Nosenko.
Angleton thought his suspicions confirmed when Oganesyan
with his young wife suddenly re-defected to the Soviets, but
this view is not held by other Agency officials nor by
Brook=Shepherd.

A special case of interest is Arkady Shevchenko, who
held an exalted position at the United Nations in New York.
When his interest in defecting became known, the CIA managed
to convince him to work for it in place as long as possible.
This turned out to be something over two years, but in 1978
the order came for his return to Moscow. He then put the
re-arranged plan into effect; his defection went smoothly,
he wrote a bestseller about his experiences as a senior
Soviet diplomat, married an American woman, and quietly
settled into American life.

The final cases summarized are all of special interest.
They are all of rather recent vintage, falling within a time
frame of the decade roughly 1975-1985. The first of these
cases concerns a GRU officer, Vladimir Rezun, who defected
to the British in Switzerland in 1978. He brought with him
considerable valuable information, the most alarming of
which was specifics about the Red Army's Spetnatz units or
“Special Purpose Forces". These special units were present
in every part of the Soviet military and employed sabotage,
terror, and other extreme action in the event of war. Rezun
under British direction, and using the pseudonym "victor
Suvorov", wrote several books relating his experiences in
the Soviet military and emphasizing the role of spetnatz
units. As CIA made several of their defectors available to

101
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Brook-Shepherd for interviews, so the British also turned

Rezun over to the author for consultation.

Victor Levchenko, a KGB officer stationed in Tokyo and
engaged in active measures, defected to the CIA in 1979. He
had been active with the Soviet Mission there since 1975 and
was able to reveal not only the order of battle of Soviet
intelligence in Japan but also much about the extent of
Soviet penetration and collaboration within the Japanese
government and the media. His defection provided much
inside information on KGB active measures worldwide as well
as its place in the KGB. As there was mounting interest in
the subject at this time, Levchenko's defection was
specially valuable. He subsequently wrote a book about his

experiences and lectured widely about Soviet special

Measures.

The penultimate defector case is that of Vladimir I.
Vetrov, known as "Farewell", a case which began in France
but ended in Moscow, with his execution in the early 1980s.
The case, even aside from its lurid aspects (which involved
a murder and a mistress), is of special interest because it
revealed in excruciating detail the highly sophisticated
efforts of the Soviet government to obtain every possible
bit of scientific and technical information from the West.
Even more alarming, Farewell's reporting disclosed how
successful this massive endeavor, spearheaded by the KGB,
had been. Farewell early in his career had been stationed
in Paris where he had made many contacts. After Farewell
returned to Moscow from a successive overseas assignment in
Ottawa, he signalled he wished to contact the French, and
arragements were made for meetings in the Soviet capital.
The case because of its origins in Paris had been under the
jurisdiction of the DST (Direction de la Surveillance
Territoire) and it was continued by the internal service
even though the operation was being conducted abroad. It

102
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT


13-00000

|

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

may be surmised that security considerations were prominent

in this decision. ”

The Farewell product was of such enormous significance,
particularly because so much of the Soviet operational
effort was directed at American industry, that President
Mitterand instructed the French intelligence service to
share this vital material with the United States. Although
the operation was of relatively short duration--less than
two years--the voluminous product and the insight it
provided into the intricate and highly secret Soviet system
for collecting and utilizing the scientific and technical
intelligence was of inestimable value to the US Intelligence
Community. Within the constraints of the limited amount of
information released by the French about the case, the
author has done a remarkable job in presenting this
important story, which without question places Farewell as
one of the most important agents ever to work for the West.
Meantime, Farewell had moved steadily upward in the KGB's
Department T, which was concerned with technical and
scientific espionage abroad and occupied a key position from
which he could monitor the Soviet efforts and their

requirements in this area.

Brook-Shephera concludes his book with a brief chapter
on Oleg Gordievsky, who needs no introduction to
counterintelligence officers. His story in general terms is
well known and recounted in this book. However, now that
Gordievsky's family has been allowed to join him in England,
the defector is busy writing his own autobiography, with--of
course--careful British guidance. Undoubtedly for this
xeason as well as because his family in 1987 was still held
in Moscow, Brook-Shepherd got only the minimum amount of
information sufficient to make a good ending for this

remarkable book.

103
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
