# 104-10066-10076

## Page 1

104-10066-10076

DICI

HIRK

3

saly

MEMO FOR FILL

SUBJECT C

OTS (late ISD) and Jim McCord's Cuban Activities:

1 Ben Colling phoned to say that one of the fellows in jail

is still around, and after he got out he inquired around and got no

indication that McCord was ever involved. None of the other OTS people

have any recollection of McCord's involvement.

2o. I said that I was sure that the man who was rolled up

might not have any idea of Melord's involvement, if indeed he was

involved. If McCord's involvelement was merely headquarters planniis

and no releasing operation was ever undertaken his role might never

surface. However, we had been told that planning did involve TSD

people at the time, along with"

ecurity. For instance, I knew that

the Security man with ISD at the time had a job of hand-bolding with

the families of the thre men; there may be some ISD record of that.

which would lead to soneone who would know.

3. Colling was pulled out of a staff meeting to talk to me ard

said he would call back later.

SDB

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

6594

---

## Page 2

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

20 September 1960

NEMORANDUM FOR: DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

SUBJECT

Summary oiLS?ESCALADE - Audio Operation

Against the New China News Agency in Hayana

In May 1959, the New China News Agency (NGNA) opened

an office in Hayana in the El Medico Building which is occupied

partly by business concerns and partly used for residential apartr

ments.

Shortly thereafter, the Havana Station obtained the con

currence of Ambassador Bonsal and Miss Carolya O, Stacey, 2n

Embassy employee, to mount an audio operation against NONA throug

the wall of the adjacent apartment in which Mies Stacey lived. " In

November 1959, the FE Division sent one case officer and one ISD

teconician to Havana, and the installation of a microphone and tape

recorder was completed in Miss Stacey's apartment on 29 November

1959.

By June 1960, it had become evident that two other ooms

occupied by NCNA possibly housed communication equipment and

were used for conisrences," At that time

FE Division

case officer, went to Fiaraca and explored the possibility of improving

the operation, He managed to lease an apariman: directly over the

NONA office and arranged for a stay-behiza agent to occuyy this space.

4: 3.

In August 1950, a team of feree TSD technicians who were

in Havaza on 2 separate SR Division operation agreed to install the

additional equipment required for the NCNA operation. A second FE

Division case officer, Robert Neet, carre down to Havana; and be,

together with the technicians, installed a probe microphone and tape

recorder in the apartment obtained by

over the NCNA office.

About this time the equipment was removed from Miss Stacay's

apartment, with the exception of the plastic probe which was laft

in the wall and plastered over.

6592

---

## Page 3

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-I

4. As an additional security precaution to provide a safe

haven, and after consultation with ine Acting Chief of Stacion, a key

to an apartment in the same building leased by Mrs. Majorie

Lannos, an Impassy secretary, was cotained. Mrs. Lennox was

told that access to her apartment was nesded for photographic

surveillance purposes.

5. The Station was then faced with the probability that time

and security would work against holding indefinitaly the lease to

the apartznert over NChA since the owners of the bulding were

cancelling sub-lessors' contracts and recalling leases.

It was,

therefore, decided to install transmitters and switches in order to

permit continued monitoring of the target from a distant listening

post. Another three-man team of TSD technicians consisting of

David I, Christ falias Carswell), Walter E. Szuminski (alias

Taransky) and Thornton J. Anderson (alias Danbrunt) documented

as tourists had been sent to Havana to install audio equipment in the

Chinese Natioralist Embassy bajore it was due to be turned over to

Eze Chinesa Commuaits.. This operation aborted,. This team was

then sent to work on the installation of the transmitters in the apart-

ment over the NCNA oifice.

6. At 2400 hours on l4 September, Christ, Who with the

other technicians was working in the tazget apartment, failed to keep

a scheduled appointment with Nee:.

At 0100 hours on the 15th of

September, the apartment of Mes.

Leanos was entered into and

searched by Cuban authorities, and she was taken inio custody. A

1540 hours on 15 Saptember, Neat, the siay-beriod agant and his wife:

were picked up by the Cuban authoricies and detained.

7..

As of today the agent remains in the custody of the Cuban

authorities, His wife kas been released and is still in Havana. Neet

was released. 1715 hours 16 September and has subsequently returned.

to Washington whare he is being debriefed. Mis. Lennox was

subsequently relzased and has also zeturned to Washingion where she

is being debriafed, The three TSD technicians remain in confinement

They have been seen in confinement but not contacted by an Embassy

officer when ba first attempted to secure the zalease of Mis. Lennox.

Christ was last seen by Neat when they were jointly interrogated

che morning of 15 September. At that time Christ did not appear

-=-

5-2-C-2-E-I

---

## Page 4

14-00000

to have been maltreated.

8.

According to articies in the Cuban papers she three

technicians were arrested while in the apartment over the NCNA

oifice and completing the installation of the equipment.

The

press article adds that the key to Mis. Lennos's apartment was

found on one of the technicians who identified the apartment to

which it belonged. All Cuoan press releases have referred to the

men by alias and.have sos. identified them as Government or Agency

employees. It is urclear at present what story had been agreed

upon by the technicians and station personnel to be used in the eveat

they were caught. (While being interrogated with Neet, Christ

indicated that Neet was his boss,

aId Neet consistently denied any

Knowledge as to why he was being bald,): "The sub-lease for the

apartment in which the mer were caught is in the name of the stay

behind agest with the original lease being in the name of

the.

FE Division Case Officer.

9o Initial information indicated that the thrae tachaicians would

be charged with espionage "'againsi the people cí Caina"... Subsequent

press releases bave been unclear on this point.* An atterapt by Consul

Hugh Kessler to contect the three men at 1730-hours on 17 September

was unsuccessful.. He was nöt permitted to see them but was told

they were in custody.

10. The three technicians travelled to Cuba as tourists under

vazy light commarcial cover, two of them working io= a company in

New York and the third, one in Baltimore," In each case the cover

company consists of a telaphone answering service and a name on the

door. Telephone messages and ¿nail are picked up periodically by aa

Agency contract employee. The men were provided with tais cover

as well as unbackstopped come addresses for use when entering or.

leaving: Cuba as tourists since the filling out of the landing card

requires this information. Subsequent to their detention the home

addresses have been partially backstopped so that inquiries will

indicate that someone with this alias name had lived in she aparticent

house in question, Insoíar as the cover comparies are concerned,

eiforts are being made to provide a backstop to withstand inquiries

from the press should the Cubans reveal this incorzation. In view

- 3-

V gR

---

## Page 5

14-00000

of the thinness of the cover, it is uncertein whether this will succeed,

11. A cleared and vatting law firm in New Tock bas been briefed

by Mr. I. Houston on the situation with the bought thes inquiries.

received by the cover company could be reierred to the firma of

lawyers from whom no comment would be obtained by the press or

other inquirers. The law firm has been brieied on the entire sitia-

tion so that they may be in a position to act if any action by them

appears dssirable or feasible.

It would not appear that nuch support

of zay kind can be obtained from the lax firm or the law firms in.

Cuba which are associated with them,

12. Insofar as the families are corcerned, one of the techniciaas.

is a bachelor presertly on home leave begween two tours is

His father, a cook in a diner in the Boston area, has been contacted

by the Cifice of Security, and he will get in touch with Security if

he receivas any inquiries on this matter, Security, by the same

token, will keep in touch with him as the Cubans reveal their inter-

tions and course of actior.

13. The wives of the other two technicians have been toid whai

has happened and are being contacted at least once daily by ISD

staifers and their wives who have been brialed on the situation. A

conference with the two wives was held in ISD'on 19 September to go

over the whole situation and determine il there era any persoral

probiems on which the Ageacy could be of help.

For the time being

the wives are telling their neighbors that theis husbanda are ca a

tip. This story will be adjusted depending on vicat course of action

the Cuban Government takes, whether the aliases remain unbroken

and whether recognizable photographs of the individuals ase raleased

to the press." The two wives so fa= have taken tha bad nevis exceedingly"

Fell.

RUDOLPH E. GOMEZ

Acting Chia:, WH

Districution:

DCI - 2

DOCI - !

DD/P - 1

COPS - 1

Val -3

05 -3

S-2-C-R-Z-D

---

## Page 6

14-00000

20 Septemher 1955

02

MEMORAY DUM

1 RS (STESCALADE

record

There is a folder of sensitive non-us/ material pertaining to this

operation, retired under Blask Tape wrapping, Job #57-96/78, restricted

to Offices of DCI, DDJI, DDP, C/WH, C/:H/PL, E/VH/S, C/CI, 3/ISD, Director

of Security and General Counsel. China Operations is not cited as an

originator, addressee, or into recipient of any of this sensitive

material.

WH/ RMO

SEORET

1534:

065.93

---

## Page 7

14-00000

LC K, 1.1

Att'

RELE/SE CONDINCECY OPTIS: 52-2

DELARIL DEL MA BETH SENS:

Sectioral itorautie.

Ladia

ao espoir.

Billy Bu Carpbel, Fouler.

Lanich I, Cranell (Aino), Duczes A. Fabres (4li00) end Bini

R. Teransig (A11u3) 82%

Cuban autsoratieu Sa Septeaber 198:

ces.

PX 0% X6V8 13n J00 50uts3-

*slcas?.

Minal, Morieo Cary, Suitze lid:

contingenty ples be formistud do usue to? anoure ach: 2n o8 chass

emleyses.

The contrching Luthor Un 3li TMaste on the 30lo:5e Ereredure Is

tit these cuplaints tera dr daos.

-dor aline and cast durtig tis estise

cave caco odatacual, Dherelaru li le endoctlat dau chore dlasee Dr

caintainan antar cun die au ton: ointer lors minorat de Agoung 8ca.

treil et then bare bueno dand la mans ducate co quator dopastia

ole.

2. LISELE:

1A3.

2axg1206 0. 51, 109

"cadres

224: 610068 100020: 206960/05/303

Magaliang on Deo 10:1000 1110 00i

6594

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Request for Black Amanagost shole

1. Requeue that RELaISE COURTENCI OUtAN 62-2 be inglemented.

2. Por dE entrys

3. Dato, lozal tire, anù carlala daniel for plas ay,

1o Dableed destination.

5.

Other canuiramosa, le,, otruvanzan or bulks as the eveat

subjects are bospital carco.

6. Name, organization uni slophoca saber or asquasting party-

To Nane sed telephone nucour st lUBiRK extits at Loadäng

and off-ioning potato.

co Ins following personnel sie Inaulodguable ma charged rich the

responsibillty of activasing Wild plar:

3. Major Richac I, Stuccer, RC/ASD/D0/8

Organization:

Ain Suzante Dirlss,02, 20/2

Hone Phone:

TH: 3.2:0g

Office facte:

Sterile Munibnes

10 8-6235,

EX 3-9515

6852, 1664, 7367

Ral Idaa 1958

2. Me. Robsct Murrero

Оrgzт:225100:

his Suggni Basister, D1/2

Esre Poose:

JA 1-3599

Offlee Face:

Sara ss 1>

3s

Majos Billy H. Cosche!3, Comerder: Juir 1.

Organization:

Froling Crod, Elu An Forde Ease, Floridu

Fore Poone:

662737

Offyee Pucao: Ezlin Air Perce Desa, Moriãa 631590

Major Kensett, I. Burien,

Cas Diffuer, Dets 3o

Organizatien:

Das, 1, 1045% Cpirasional. Braluation and

TraddEg Cacio, Bgis 1x Jorge Basa, Flerida!

Eone Phons: 662163

Offles Facte:

Ign: Ai Touse Ecce, Morida 631213

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SEE-P-B-T

D. Toi: j. Slismich 1 Ua54 sod arci sn steriby capacity ux111

Staniby spacity is herain Actinea as apability 1o

poultica the circadt at any pore of chiry la cost, sout er sritiuest

U. S, from Foston to Los lageles sithin 35 bare,

acaring the subjecto s12i ba roleased in Farara vr Mczico

City, Ist, 1 vill Drapere nission Salders for Zagsta Sen ses

provebis perta si enory in Inslation int Avarens Air Fessa Base.

03

RICHARD I. SUNER

D256/1006301:

0146:

tere

3

3

Cr Starr

OS

RES

C/TSD

TIN

6/0a

RED/DOR

---

