104-10143-10220)

‘CRANDUM FOR: Chief, WHD for Cuba

sussect : Espinosa Allegations
1e15)1D) a
1. Sensitivity: REDO OO WS EON,

A. Present a ppobionib aint [Sflseses having been
eg

presented to of! su roytaiale acies;

B. in view of matters touching on U.S. security,
are delicate and could have unfavorable repercussions
1Z repeated to newsmen by the complainant or his
associates (rhose independent, previous threats were
of greater potential embarrassment);

C. afiect the reputations and the security of our
personnel at Madrid and Paris.

2. Action: In view of the foregoing, the allegations

A. should be put in proper pexspective i.e., not
ignored because of the potential eubarrasament bat
considered in the light of what we already know
(Almost all of them are repetitions of previous
charges and reports, known well to both the Madrid
and Paris stations and to jieadquarters officers
concerned with the AMLASH group, whose members!’
reliability, reputations and good faith are question-
able. Two of the charges - about Earle and "Tota"
and about AMWVHIP-1 and CARRILLO ~ are new.);

B. should be treated so as to protect us against any
charge of to establish the facts but,

tte Dies GOAN Mellavoid attributin
2 Hee Soon RECIENTE yMorotal atte

C. should be imasa: mples of other
charges which (fi 5 fed peale and reported by the
AMLASH group to othek “bby lal agencles or to
other governments or to news media (in the Jast
connection recall the implied threat of publishing
ODYOXE responsibility, as reported previously by

MADA-3716,IN 33634.);



D. should be examined together with all the other
available reports so that we may

(1) clarify our own objectives and wishes with
orth to all the AMLASH group (and thia includes
AMWHIP) ; a :

LOR

AN
(2) sort [pUElmich peopie, if hy, are worth our
time in the future;

ROMMDNTET
(3). take ap: 2G) NE | fey. including inter-
rogation and is > ‘clarify doubts and

thea, when necessary, terminate those who are
working for us but are not worthwhile;

(4) tighten up oar own operational and security
procedures in connection with the AMLASH group.

3. Preliminary Analysis: As pointed out in a preliminary
analysis of the TALS complex, made in March 1965 when I was
preparing for travel to Madrid in connection with the GUMOPS-1
case; ".,.There is no convincing evidence that the gr is
working either for or against the regixe of Fidel CASTRO.
Reports on their contacts with us and their discussions among
themselves are at variance. in 1962 Fidel CASTRO, reportedly
knowing that they were plotting against him, talked to AMLASH-1
and seven members of his group to enlist their support against
Anibal ESCALANTE Dellunde and the cormunists in Cuba. Possibly
they are playing both ends against the middle. They certainty
have been and are in contact with the two endy." The Zollowing
comments are keyed to matters raised by HSPINOSA:

A. The AMLASH conspiracy ~- As detailed by NADR-3716
(IN 28634) on 6 April 1965, QUSPORT-2 reporting on a meeting
of the AMLASH group, including AMWHIP-1 mentioned the folloying
significant points:

(1) KUBARK was criticized for "fooling around tor
years" without helping and for jeopardizing the operation;

(2) the ofS Geeaan to denounce
ODYOKE as responsible 1! “he Oberats sn ‘FALIH\hna believed that
the resulting scandal would-rake, the, Pay,of Pigs seem insigni-
fieant; and DRT Has iL}
AWN | ee
3) AMLASH-3 was in touch with Cuban Intelligence
as established by coded messages which he cxhibited.

ported by 1532 (IN 82939) on 4 June 1965, based on
ngs with ESPINOSA, the problem seen by Paris is that
7 v



"the AMLASH circle is wide and each new friend of whom we Jearn
seems to have knowledge of the plan." I belicve that the
‘problem is a more serious and basic one, Ay indicated in
paragraph 3 of the present memorandum, Fidel CASTRO himself
reportedly knew as far back as 1962 that the group vas plotting
against him and, knowing it, enlisted its support. Sence we
cannot rule out the possibility of provocation. Assassination,
obviously, 1s a dangerous game, not merely to the plotters in

& physical sense, but to a sponsoring government which may
suffer severe political repercussions at home and abroad if its
involvement is made known, In the instant case, the risks of
exposure of the ODYOKE hand would appear high, whether there is
A provocation or not. Considering the individuals who are
involved directly, their contacts with KUBARK officers,and their
reported plan to e: OB prreienn in the plan could

be highly vonbarsaseld fa iB rE tijeven more the case
now that ESPINOSA ha: ta: obey | ind! ‘QDURGE, although
fortunately the tenor of his a Jaint was that KUBARK had not

given adequate support aon amt; FO
B. The contac ipl e watters affecting

the Paris Station.- The "reexui tment" of Waureea bad been the
subject of an exchange of cables between Paris and Headquarters
and of discussions at Headquarters between H/C aad VE (See
PARI-1071 (IN 66557) and DIR-10955), he annoying thing in
this connection now is that ESPINOSA has talked about it to
ODENVY and ODURGS and the danger that, if he is indisereet,

his story about this (and the other matters) could reach sone
curious newspaperman, (In this connection, it avpears that the
questionable decision to put Maureen in touch with the AlMLASH
group was made without the knowledge of STCCKYCOD.) ESPINOSA
did not report any criticism of the KUBARXers at Paris but it

is evident that the AMLASH group knows more aboat them than

we might wish. What is new and of concern from ESPINOSA about
matters in Parls is his story of AMWHIP 1 and UNSNAFU-19
dealings. The questions raised about AM#HIP-1 are of mutual
concern also to Headquarters which has been running him and
Madrid which he has visited often, (On the occasion of my
previous trip to Madrid on the QUJOPS-2 case, GROWERY had voiced
his doubts about the whole group and specifically about AMVWHIP~J
and his connection with UNSNAFU-19.) At issue are two basic
points, the knowledge on the part of UNSMAFJ-19 aboat KUBARX's:
connection with AMWHIP-1 and the charge that AMWHIP-1 has been
defrauding KUBARK in the jewelry transaction. Also to be kept
jn mind is the fact that ODENVY hag an offico in Paris which
well might have been informed of the allegations and which might
have been asked for comments - although ODENVY policy always
has been to stay away from any investigation of other governnent
agencies unless specifically directed by the Attorney General

to investigate. REPROME TERY

oH



C. Criticism of the Madrid Station - Criticism of
the Radrid Station by the AMLASH group is not new. ANLASH-2
and -3 were in Madrid and wanted direct contact, but the
Station has had reservations about seeing them. ‘The Station has
been involved indirectly because of reporting by its sources
about and iavolvement of Station targets with both the ANLASH
and ANWORLD operations (both handled from Headquarters).
(See MADR-2982 (IN 72256) and NADR-2993 (IN 73094) (both RYBAT).).
Meetings among QUSPORT, ‘QUSHIFT-1, ANMHIP-1 and AMLASH
produced conflicting reports which previously were discussed at
Madrid and at Headquarters. Insofar aa GROWERY himself is
concerned, it must be kept in mind that he is a natural target
on whom the AMLASH gr on a Teaparaaues focus its com
plaints, With Pagaca ompiati at about "Tota",
ee has identizied ane ‘and-has reported that
o staffer from the sey had, sontact with her.
mis

tele

4. ¥Yurther lavolvem Y Hibs ty i Jon 10 June ODENVY -
notified EUMAE AE New York that SULA 2 had telephoned
ESPINOSA to ask whether he had succeeded in contacting “the
proper people” - i.e., responsible KUBARK representatives - and
to request notice of the resulting arrangements.

S. WHIP-1: Our plan calls for meeting him next week

to obtain PHQ inforration and to obtain clarification of the
roles played by those involved with him in the AMLASH operation.
His dealings with UISNAYU-19 also will be covered. Following
this, an LCFLUTTER examination ia planned. This may help to
determine whether he has been truthful in his reporting.

Harold ¥. Swenson
WH/C/SP

MPTIAN
POEUN

