104-10186-10198}

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This material eco tains taformation aferting the National Defense of tne United States within the meaning of the Repionsge Laws, Tite
1A UBO Bere MS and TL the Uanemlaiog OF fereietion of which In any manner ia ao UEauthurieed perece We prohibited by law,
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

country Cuba ReroRT NO, — CSCT-316/00606-65
sumect Ramon LNG (alias “Efrain") DATE O18TR. 9 February 1965
NO, PAGES 1
- RETURNTOCIA
REFERENCES Background Use Only
_ pare or 1964 + (Do Not Reprodupe
pote Washington, D. C.
‘pate aca, January 1966 HIELO REPORT NO.

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE OLMINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE.

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments rn
The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals pentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

Rnmon LNU, alias "Efrain," is a member of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence ~
DGI) who in 1964 was stationed at the Cuban Embassy in Prague .l

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
. on Ranon LNU.

3

4 .

3 SECRET ceo e

: NO FOREIGN DISSEM enclormena

STATE Toi Tawar, T navy Taw Tysa TEX Toce mi
REP CINCLANT CINCSO # T&NS
Hotes Fighd disvibetion ndwated by “P

louse (1 6be
LX 2510; UFC
(l4 Jan 65)
INO PROJECT (AMMU
ICSC1.316.“006 06-§

uf vores WH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CE 4, RID 1

