# 104-10216-10358

## Page 1

104-10216-10358

' MATIONNI

LORI INFORMA,

UNREPORTE

• CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SE-C-I-E-T

NO FOREIGH DISSEM

COUNTry Cuba

SUBJECT

FEl Elections at the University of

Havana

REPORT NO. 05-311/02661-65

DATE DISTR

1 March 1955

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

Anlock Part.

DATE Of Early February 1965

INFO.

PLACE &

BY CABLE

DATE ACQ(2 February 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former high-level Cuban official who was once active in the revolutionary

movement and a confidant of Fidel Castro.

He has always been anti-Commnist and

18 now strongly anti-Castro.

He continues to maintain contact with many Cuban

officials at all levels of government.

Source has provided a limited number of

reports which appear to have been accurate.

Headquarters Comment.

Source, who also has good contacts among leaders of the

Federacion Estudiantil Universitaria (FEU, University Student Federation), re-

ported on 2 February 1965 that Jaime Crombet and Lazaro Mora would be elected

president and vice-president, respectively, at the 8 - 10 February elections

of FaJ officers at the University of Havana.

The following comments by Source

are reported in light of his experience and insight in Cuban student matters.

Jaime Crambet, newly elected president of the Federacion Estudiantil Universi

taria (PE) at the University of Havana, has little Influence over the University

students and will find it difficult to restrict them to the ideological frame-

work which the Cuban régime tries to impose. Lazaro Mora,, the new vice president,

although younger than Crombet, is a member of the student

"old guard;" he worked

with Rolando Cubela Secades during the period when the latter was president of

the FDJ, from late 1959 to 1961.

Mora still maintains close contact with Cubela,

who apparently plans to retain his influence at the University with tre students

through Mora and with the faculty through luis Soto, Vice-Rector of the Univer-

sity.

It is certain that Fidel Castro will not be able to control the students

through Crombet as he has done through his predecessor, Jose Rebella Alonso,

for the past two years.

The fact that the students no longer react spontaneously

will make Crombet's task a difficult one. Crombet may be able to attract members

of the Union de Jovenes

Comnistas (UJC, Union of Communist Iouths), of which he

has been president, but Mora is considered the leader of the anti-Commnist groups

at the University. A small Trotskyist group still exists, but it is insignificant.

Hendouarters Comment.

A Havana radio broadcast of 11 February 1965 announced

the results of the elections, naming, among others, Crombet, Mora, Iliana Valmana

as secretary of organization, and Francisco Dorticos as deputy secretary of

organization.

SEGRIT

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

ARAY

I NAVY

TAIR

INSA

I ANX

1 F9I 2

REPCINCLANT

Fiold tharibution Indicored by "#*)

USIA

I&NS

INFORMATION REPORT

MURS/SI

1 N/5/8

WHC, R8

WHC /RE

WHC/DS

WHC/MO

1 W-C/HAVE

1 WE/MADR

3 WHC/EA

_WE/B

2/CI/OPS /11

2 WE/3/B

C1/I0

C1 5, 31 30

I,

WH/D 17 (1)

INFORMATION REPORT

WE 3 (1),

LIAISON

PARI-9312

IX-72223

MP (AMLASS-1)

05-311/02561-65

COOIDINATING

FE!

WHC/FI

Ровы NO

• OBSOLSTE PREVIOUS EDITIONB.

---

