04016910285

Ls

AR QUARTERS BY

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT cL
ITER ON ASSASSUXATIONS STAFF 3

HOUSE SELECT COMME

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: __ FRA s Ss E: cpa) ia) lo AL
Sa oe
INCLUSIVE DATES: ‘ :
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
os pee
‘ROO: jeeeeee

” DELETIONS y TF ANY:

oF sg vIEyN OFFICIAL

ALS ib

ral RECFIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAMED SIGNATURE ;

f ye SENG ; Sate! —
eee

REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

xO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR



[lin Smsan | percrrove Cts. Vow? 7 |

gal déenéy Documenrs:
:
6BI MY. afpafrS a0 EXANG, Morus (No Fie No.) a
ior NwY Vo2e/r¥ ~ PRO Misseen ro vn C" » ») a
tf) Has Memo Y9/73 ae Svasecr; Fal Seve *100- Y0r762 +128

woe oe f</73 oo « “ “ “6792.
Be im ow Afarf73.n ©) ¥100.339235-He
FBI NY apat ufiof7a+  * QVENES 100-239235, 100- 401762

afuf7a uw NYFRES 100-2479, 100-107383
afrif72 ke Rrewarn C. Frank (ne fae o
3/17/72 © THE Mana Cone ( #

i Cueegur Mareu dimes Mataes tes sfre/nr Yo. I Not fate te
wl RE AS. Siac dons's Feranensaie odo, 1A 770
! *COSCARA).

3/y, ee eres at - wet 106. 5292

Yaf[ra ee Svareer fre(ene vo} ae)

22/7 ea Kiewarn Cer Frank; Fire Mos, 10g-107389,
+ 106- va

Mitctam A342, ufau/n as. Thole or Amsescans Cornsaus Te freon PRE,

; Wray sar Comte (at Ps)
CommewsT tate (Me.
ae Suerecr; M0 Fit we

ee. “min

has)
a De fl "

ee Suariery FF i0o- - A479, BUENE 100-999 285
fai ffre 0° RrewnsD ls; FF, 100- 107353, # J00~ VOrF
far/re RE Seater; mo Fut wes,

wef t/69 ;
fat[os a0 fom AF 107383, auens | 100. Joo
‘fates o
“tee He



my ekuicee eee)

EXTRACT AND ROSS REFERENCE

DOCMENT ICENTIFICATION
Date OF 00C. Fite CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY

"SOURCE INFORMATION
Gate oF tno. ~EVALUATIOW

* 06-126-04370,,
OcOA~i79z¢a0r:
2A Aus 73

Indioate The Budject, Project Or
QOL Fite No. In Which Thie
orn Ie To Be Piled.



ry on ETRE yO

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
‘boc, svwnot_s KO. Date oF coc.

OI=TVIOVE : 016-120-061/01
SEX F 008.7 toa OCOM=17933

SSE 46 AUG TE >
bar.

cit?
occ ?

__. 3
Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Yoru Is To Be Piled.-



201-1910968 100-300-091.
SEX F 008 ? H i OBD -60693

a «20 JUL 73
fet

m8 : ow cit?
Be nee?

Indieate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.



: ie paren ea cv \se by ——
Chier, P
Chief, WOHUSE/60; Chief, EUR
Chief of Station,
+ KOBIRD/CO SMABOYE ~

Reference: 0C0A-16222, 10 August 1971

‘ ieee
“ : ; 2 July 1$71 |
me 1. SHABOVE advise that on 12 51 1s7t

:
a ania aaeaian a officer, requested the address of

The foregoing information vas also passed LUERGO.

Biatributions
Orig & 1 = C/7B
2» 6/MONE



CASSTHATON

BECRE®

_
"DISPATCH

Chief, F

wo weprneee aratD
Jonvy Quaint goon
sa

_..__.. Chef, WOMUSE/50; Chief, EUR _

em
.—.- Sndek of Btation,

atic
—______ ROBXRD/CO SHAROVE f
cw ATSURAD. a AeINAHS

Reference: OCOA-16222, 10 August 1971

_- 4 SMAROWR afvtan ‘that on 12 July 1971)

\
a suspected intelligence officer, requested the address or

" 2 The foregoing information was also passed WIEROO,.

Distribution:
Orig a 1

* DUPLICATE cory ~
© FOR GiS8S FILE G IM |



§

=]

sad

SECRET ¢ Pas ern
(WHEN FILLED INS cal wey

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ©

INSTRUCTIONS:

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it r¢orda
signiticant-action taken or comments requir

ing preservation
FROM:

RID/
POPTIAK ELAINE

ATAN
* BRT. 6953

TO: ACTION BRANCH

“If file no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.

TG: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON GAC. IF APPROPRIATE
‘CoMmENTS

Info Sa Elbcie, er/So

SECRET



Ir¢

= DISPATCH srenst | oa Al

i Chief, FE Division 7 x0 woENING eeaUTRED !
ae Cy ‘
: Chief, EUR; Chief, WOMUSE/BOf __* las noe waco
eo ‘
Chief as Station auctor \ :
On: R 0 SMABOVE — 7
“Contact with Chinese Eabassy Officials .
iia as ‘

Actions FYI : 7 t

4. ‘The attached is a biind samorandim and photo from
rms a meeting
lofficials and

SMABOVE also provided LNERCO with attachment.

a 03% we

C$ cot.

creat RT oeten SnbON iD MOB eer (71

OCOA-16515 1% Dacenber 1971 |
ten 20/= HOWE : j

saa

BECRET



ATTACHMENT TO: OCOA~16515,

RET

‘DOC. MICRO. SEI

Jat 03 1972
MICROFILMED.

December 8, 1971 ~

4

A reliablo source advised that
arrived. at the Ottawa Airport on September

i, a9 via Eastern Airlines flight 177.from the United
tates.

On his arrival at 9:35 a.m..he deposited his
three Leis of luggage in a locker at the Airport, then
travelled to the People's Republic of China Embassy, 100
Bronson Ave.,-Ottawa by taxi; he remained at the Embassy
for five hours then returned to the Ottawa Airport.

- : arranged to be placed on stand-by for
Air Canada flight no. 459 to Toronto and at 4:h0.p.m. he
departed on this flight.

While waiting at the Airport was ‘over=
heard talking on a pay telephone. He mentioned to the
son he called that he was phoning long distance and
4 he could be reached at 7Lb-l54-7126.

a photegraph of taken on September 17,
sched. e rors *

tach \





: tora comes:

wae SECRET

mate cit/ocbu 7

a X7900

wares 18 NOV 1971 peseis

(PABLO SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION Com = no tox © acruan ro yer pon
FILE 1H C8 FILE NO. H

<5 |

ry wessace pone

[7 DO BASE WASHINGTON
SINFO: DO. BASE
KOBIRD/CO DONOPS WUPRECIS.. --._
“REFS: A, DO BASE WASHINGTON 13626" (IN “468195)*
ot DO BASE kose4 (IN 471050)**
NLY INFO AVAILABLE HQS ON
“IN ADDITION TO REFS, IS LNERGO REPORT CONCERN-
NG A MEETING OF ABOVE ASSN. IN NEW YORK AUG 71, SUSAN WARREN

> SUCH APPROVAL, WOULD ONLY BE CONSIDERED

Sustu Marsh 2
/CONTINUED/ :

COCRDINATING CrPICZRO

A
Eeatyted ye aul
sicret | | pee
REPRODUCTION GY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING CFPICE 18 PROHIGITEO,



iene coun ROUTING AND Om wuTIALS » SEN BY
TOrAL cones mm

‘ata : |
mn ieceenata {eos Ieee i eseaeeaREE E :
: ‘ i

Cl mevunn vo enance >) ene aio

{ABLE SECRETARIAT DIBSEMINATION Cl noe =) no vex
POR ninenll CO rie mcs rice no.

**Reported this A ; ne * yeteoned pia PRC delogates, giving
;Cbairman's name as Susan Warren.

GOORDINATING OFFIORRD





TAQ0G00



A000



A000

a PO U/L rr

-

(a)
(a)

()

(a)

fn) Pekieten

Finland
custrie |

Chile

Treq

" Grend Hotel:

Mersterin Hotel

. Go¥ion Gate Hotel



TAQ0G00

ik we

Lo

OAMERICAN LEFTISTS FLOCKINS 10 PEKIKG: Comsunist China has instituted its Open Door

policy for Acerican leftists, sore of then with long-standing ties to Cormunist parties.
A reception in Peking early this month provided intelligence agencies with a partial =~
glinpse of who is welcone, and the relative pecking order. Turning out to be greeted by
Presier Chou En-Lei aid his teo top assistants, Kuo Mo-jo and Keng Piao, were ebeut 70
Azericans, some permanent Peking residents and government eployees. Radio Peking listed
some by nane, deliberately concealing the identity of others. Greeting Chou were “All

olutionary Union" (°U is a fanatically pro-Mao aracd revo-
Palo Alto end Richmond, Calif.), Pablo “Yoruba” Guzman,
head of the Young Lords Party, Black Panther's Huey Newton, Elaine Brown and Robert Bay,
and "16 American young people led by Mrs. Carmelita Hinton (df Putney, Vt.). Also Mr.

& Mrs. Max Granich (brother of the late Conmunist writer Mike Gold), William Epton (ex- .
menber of Progressive Labor Party), Jack Belden (author of pro-Red China book), Mrs. Susan
Warren (an old CP and PLP functionary), Dick Frank (Mrs. Warren's husband), Mr. & Mrs. .
Hoseah Williams (of Southern Christian Leedership Conference), Mr. & Hrs. John S. Service
{ex-S:ate Departzent e=ployee, recently “rehabilitétes” by liberal press in U.S.) Mr. &
Mes. Willian H. Hinton, Mr. § Mrs. Jack SckzIman, Mr. § Mrs. Henry Wilcox, Dr. & Nrs.
Se=uel Rosen, Mr. § Mrs. Victor ¥. Sidel, and Geoffrey Collins. , .

Anong Peking residents present: were: Frank and Ruth Coe, Sol and Pat Adler (Frank Coe and
Sol Adler were implicated in Soviet espionage in Washington in the '40s), Exwin Engst,
Joan Hintog (his wife, and a developer of U.S. and probably Red Chinese atomic bozds),
Bertha Sneck ‘(ex-Mrs. Willian Hinton), Eleanor Chaidin, Julian Schuman (once indicted for
treason in Xorean War), Norman Schulman, Sidney Shapiro, Ione Kramer, Betty Chang, Alice -
E. Cheng, Lucille Stewart, Carmelit: Hinton (the younger) and Fred Eagst (aame order ua- .

doubtedly is clue to rating). .

members of the delegation of Rev
lutionary group centered around

