# 104-10183-10395

## Page 1

104-10183-10395

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

VIA:

COUMA Kel

PROCISSING ACHIÓN

DISPATCH

SECRET

BARKED FOR

10

Chief, FUn

BUFO

Chief, Wil 5-10

15-11

JHAVE Cos, (Born) CuB. (Ceneva

CAN ROGI DDING

FARINA

15-9

SUBJECT

Actiny Chief. of Station, Choig

15-2

MICROFILM

КЕУКАХ/ ТУРІС

Meetini. 01 25 Mas 1966 with AMWHIP/2

NRI QUIRED. REFURENCES

KEFERENCE: DIRECTON 5469, 19 May 1966

Some difficulty was Initially encountered in arrancia &

meeting with AwHIP during his current visit. He telephoned

BUNCE's home on 20 lay 1966, having reached Rome that day, and an

appointment was made for the following day.

No was forced to cancel

however, because bustness took him to florence.

paoned to say that AWlIP/l and his virlirtend (See CTHA)726079,

1G December 1964) were in town.

Because AXWHIPl2 does not want

ANYHIP/1 to know of his (A/2'8) association with KUBAK (and the

underslined heartily afrees) he said that he would call back when

the coast was clear.

Arrangements were finally made for dinner on

24 May, when BUNCE's wife was also present, and lunch on 25 kay...

2. AMWHIP/2 was told that we should like to maintain contact

with him after BUNCE leaves Home, but that the person who would be

in touch with hin was not yet on

the scene.

After some healtation

he sald that he was willin: to meet a successor on two conditions.

een handled in the past.

he was willing to continue to provide information on the present

bas1s - 1.0.,

that be in unpald, that his cooperation is voluntary,

and that he will not be required to engage in actioity which could

endanger his security or business.) The second condition wag that.

he would continue to be handled by a senior person, because for

security roasons he wants knowledse of his contact to be as tightly

restricted as possiblely 4(Station) Commen't:

AMWHIP/2 has no know

redfe, of course, of BUNCEs position

but has always assunod that

t 1s important.

ANWHIP/? was assured that both conditions would

be not.

The current address and telophone number of ANWIIP/2 are

belar forwarded as Identity a of the separate cover attachnent to

this dispatch.

Tho telephone nunbors of bis shap and apartrent in

Hone aro included an Identity B.

4. AWNIIP/2 was told that at an indefinito futuro dato he will

roceive a tolephone call al his niore or some apartnent.

The caller

wIll BBy, "I am a frlend of loo.

I Bays that you have

sapphire riD. for salo.

mell/ will'a reo, and an appointment

Ostonalbly to ace the fini.

(ORMA > 11050

27 May 1966

" 2101-800-28668

201-72&079

---

## Page 2

DISPAICI

•flat ol

2z

1 (OIнA)- 14950

5. •ANSHIP/? speaks Spanish; Cernas, and French fluently but

has almost no. English of italian.

MMH1P/2 then asked 11 BUNCE's duttes would not bring him

back to purope occasionally and thus permit a continuation of the

present arradienent, toroui meetings in ceneva or olsewhere in Murope

he vas told that no definitive answer 1s possible nov nanthat it suct

• trip naterializes BONCE will call on bia

but that he need have no

qualas about contuct with BUNCH's successor.

He wis asked if he had heard anything furthor fron Antonio

I CARRILLO Carreras, 201-349956, since the latter's return to

—Wale said that he had not.

Pretending not to recall

clear what mnute baduaid in susust o1 t96s about arranging

Lodgings for CARRILLO 1n Benidora; Spain (see GIHA)41342, 25 August

of the cine louis

2n here, wherend AwHIrl? had never mentioned

the Bay caneous presence there

WWHIP/2 said calaly that while

he was in Bendor be arranged for vacation quarterg there for

aR TiLo but that Can.to, on arrival, did not like the place and

nother er

CARRILLO?"

Nodded that be (A/2) mad wife left Benidore shortly

Wind this did not actüally meet him theré.

8.:

Notther Ainitp/2 nor kia wife has beard anything further

from ANIST/1.

4415-10

9.

was not Liven

Per OKLW 23055, 11 May 1966 (not to

Suitzerland) ANVHIP/2

any specific facts about Joset Wilhelm FROTZ.

He wag

asked if he had seen FROTt ayain and said jes.

He met FROTZ recently

(about 23 May 1966) at tho Hilton Hotel. FROTZ said be had been very

susy bag espected noon to have time for & deal 11 AlTHlP/2 is inter-

It seens that THOTZ's uncle 1a a bishop In Cormany (as oOr!

ed In ROME 0420, 22 March 1966). The Catholic church is engared in

smu. plias valuable art objects out of lungary (and perhaps otber

European

satellites, thourl AMWHIP/2 does not know the latter as a

fact) in order to raise money. FlOTZ fets these objects from his

uncle and sella then, actually or ostensibly for the church.

AIWHIP/2 would like to ret into the act,

tive.

which he belleves

is lucra-

He explained that THOTL has on deposit in a bank in switzorland

a told-colored or rold-plated statue weishins about three kilos and

pricod at about. 25,000 Swiss france.

The statue came fron Huntary.

AM/HIP/2 thinks ho

has & buyer.

AWWUlP/2 had taken the precaution

of checkin, with a Corman credit ratins outfit in Germany,

borever,

and had learnod that TroT? had wice been charged with pasain; bad

checke.

To ANWHIP/?'s direct requont, BUICK sald only that FROTL

sor fraud. AWhIP/s sale shat he would lixe to try to do buatness

1s an East-lest

Who morns to have sonothiny: of a reputation

with ruott, both beraue ho may be involved in matters of some

intrillicaco interont and because he thinks that he (A/2) could thus

A 2 nao do real daner in the association, nos that

he has been warned and his ejoa are open.

Para, 1 6 08(16a020019, 3 Septester 1565 says Plas

Gold 201-841649

that she has made roscruationa for

the dallas Consul In lems In Benidore and later confired lle

restriallone in

a pereonal phone call. 8o the Consul," BUNC PierO-

hisome the Guin Conaul in denous, dalhor

ORALE OlOn (2010141958).

Ho could not renomier her by name ur

lot15963081017 O0mmon

I bollered that his annuer one truthlul

sued that io desera

anne Miliall Uli bul that Ala alle any anor lier. )

74-08 1378

"/pr

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1086668569

DISPATCH

22

(CIRA)- 415JU

11.

Reference was made above to the presence of ANwllP/l in

Home, as had also boon announced before his arrival by DIRECTOR

97040,

18 April 1966:

AMTHIP/l sent reetinge to BUNCi via ANHIP/?.

nNu1p/2 reports that A/l's infaturation with his nistress fo stronto

than ever and that he le starting to think about a divorco glA

says that swip/l'e viie is such more attractive than hist

but that

the mistress pays hin much attention, whereas the ite

tends

to ignore bim.

ANHIP/2 also reported that during the day

101

1966 MMnHIP/l and sistress, In a car, vere on the via Venotg

s. car istartin: to pull out

fron the curb..

AN HIP/l vited forsthe

empty, space; but as he did so, another car shot past bin and usurped

1$.

Whips cot out of bis car and reprimanded the Italtan drives

The latter also left his car, words wore exchened, and vith int

punch ANWKIP/1 knocked the Italian out.

for ten minutes.

Ald involved were taken to a police station.

of 25 way AWWHIP/2 did not know further developments iS Station) Cou-

ment: It is essential that the foreraBl

nown to hin directly or by aruston, unless Headquarters has sere

recedved the same informition fron anotber Bourcé and unless Beade

quarters

Is positive that Mimilp/l will not spot or even suspect

as the source.

It will be recalled that Aulp/? furnished

sod that chen the road about trora roston occad on

para. 8 of 01RA938196

16 Docember 1964, that no consequent action

be taken wiich could endanger the source. Whether It s the lofor.

ma tlon

contatned 14'C1l738996 or something else concerniny MiliP?!

is not known (because AWHIP/? refused to mpecify) but AHIP/?

bocane

convinced (as he still is) that nonethins that he told to BUNCs

about ANWHIP/1 was repeated to tho latter by his Headquarters case

officer and that the result was to endanter a twenty year iriendahip

and long standing business partnership.

(see pHra. 3 ot CIMIA1342,

25 Auruat 1965.)

IS AMKHIP/2 were apain confronted by an

AMMIP/I and accused of such reportini, ANWHIP/2 would undoubtedly

be furious and would sever his relationship with shArk.

12.

Heardin, his association with AMLASH/1, AXalIP/2 repeated

the

information reported in (OIRAX41342.

that on the occasion

reported in that dispatch AMLASWl was no drunk that AMHIP/2 followed

bim into tho

bathroom hecause he feared that he muld pass out and

perhapa hurt himacil.

deferring

to AMsalP/2 and othere,

WitO

were

in

the divin:

TOOK, AMLASH/1 sald,

"They ¿ro all sons of proatitutes"

You are the only dorent man hera."

As was his custon.

ALWHIP/? had

rone for a lon

WAlk iS BIOn A AMLASI1 and othere appearoo

AMNHIP/1'a apartmont.

Ile streases that he medo every allort not to

so involved in the plannin., and lo know nothin; bout 18 and that

ALASHA way woll-aware

or thia fact.

Only on the reported occaston

uld ho chance

before AMASHl and ansociales had left.

AMüHIP/! thoreforo

concludes that 11 AlASH/l montlened bis

BANG BL

All under Interrogation

and cold the truth, Alalle/s's joaltion

a-vin the sofine lam not

suffered.

dole

vici

as prohably such ten optial

He

reminord that

under durren

Interre+=

AMLASH/) miht havo sald any

wanled to denr.

Isc

dedl

that

la 1 e

117991

#9 1 ea

And +!Uu

aanucle t lun with Al

111898919

of sung:

the re. le.

BEATATENI

but dates

not serg

18848818:

1 8

always the

chance

ÀM

# • in. 1 1. 57 8

# 1:111:0

-d 1

« t°

I Had (08161 1'16*18

8I-J911s:8: 118489

He last, had

M: 15439.

1!@CU8D194R80081

7018 80418, BIDlI MINDS

1-8 1.

IAB MOUTHEY.

1Ae 14%

"operator

His!: 1966101

see float dir 008ilad 14r98e 14589

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH .

SECRET.

2≥

OIRA 44950

rank.

On three

occasions he has stated that he se

in Ciba to overtiro

castolent action

(de has iny flasty

has regnes tod BuNch's vie

told that

its

04 840805

the

Peter minero under through

interned revolution.) • meso indicators tre

anor and ansasses

prounds for suspicion.

eat or most agents would rive rise to sintlar

They are nevertbeless

listed here ng an aid

to tào kuBAR case offlcer who will take over AlwHiP/? afte BUNG['»

departure.)

13.:.

The contact arrangement explained in pars. &, above, has

the defect that AlP/ 1s away. from Bone for lengthy pertodind

that contact depends on telephoning hin at his Bone store or pest

ment. On dotes go,

the case officer oy be asked by one of Aimufp/2

mployees to state who is calling. It te sugrested that he say only

pa 30100

Potential cliens who wishes to deal with Antp/2

espy? Ta expected to be lon

a second catast

that time or a little later, the cade

learn that A/2 has still not arrived. If a'real hitch develops, 1t

is susseated that the case officer call unaip/?'s time in Geneva.

and use the recognition dignal given above.

walter L. BUICK

Distribition:

3

- Chiet, Lui v/att usc.

chief,

wit watt uSc

2

2

cos, chlavs watt usc

COS, Bern)w/att USC 15-10

2

COB, (Geneva/att USC 15-11

COB Haskiurt/att USC 15-20

2

- COsMadrid)n/att USC15-2

Attachment:

Identity A & B

5/N

---

## Page 5

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

22

SC ATI TO: CIHA): 1950

22

SEPARATE CUVEL ATT TO: (018241950:

IDENTITY A:

100 Chemin de la Montagne,

Chene-Bouser les,

Coneva, Telephone 361053

ILSTITY B:

Phone at Rome Store:

344556

Phone at Bone Apartsent :

3490288

-EUR

Citel,

WH

008,

cos,

JIWATE

Dera). 15-10

COB,

Cenevs) (5-1)

COB

Frankfard ig-20

00S,

@adr1d ) 19-2

1966

190

SACRET

---

