104-10428-10043}

r

—

, Jvrotence iSenerepoU Ng?

ey - "REPORT ON VISIT OF FOREIGN sc NTISTS, OCTOBER h, 1971 $1

There were four guests in the group:

Dr.(Prof) Yuri I, Moskalev; Inst. of Biophysics, Ministry of Publig
Health, Moscow, 0ASYT

ao ye:

Dr. Alexei A, Moiseev; Central Inst, for Advanced Medical Studies, Moscow

Dr. Jean-Claude Nénot; CEA, Centre D'Etudes Nuclaires, Fontenay-aux-
Roses, France.

Dr. R. Hasse,; CEA as above.

Mrs, Ann@ Low-Beer picked up the four guests in Sm Francisco and brought
them to the Donner Laboratory where they were greeted by Dr. John Lawrence,
Drs. Donald Van Dyke, James MoRae, and Howard Parker took them on a short
tour of the Anger camera facility and whole-body counting and scanning
equipment, The current uses and potential in medical diagnosis were dis-
cussed. Major questions concerned the use of these instruments in monit-
oring and assessing the extent of persons contaninated with radionuclides
in industrial accidents.

Lunch was attended by Dr. Hardin Jones, the four guests, Drs. Van Dyke and
Parker, and Dr, Patricia Durbin, who acted as hostess and guide through
the day. Topics discussed at lunch were centered about the Transuranium
symposium. The efficacy of two new techniques to remove lung contamina~
tion by .alpha-emitting isotopes yas considered. The two techniques are
lung lavage and aerosolized chdgflting agents, particularly DTPA,

A tour of Bldg. 74 followéd’ lunch. Three of the visitors are biologists

Drs. Moskalev and Nenot arg physicians, and Dr. Masse is a veterinarian --
Gn aLh dee with animal oe a or the interpretation of the results

of animal experiments. They vere much interested in how one achieved
and managed a "biologically clean" rodent colony, in the minimum mainte=
nance rabbit rooms, and the cage-washing facilities. There was some
discussion about the 90-Sr-injected monkeys, therf exposure levels, years
of follow-up, and the essential absence of biological effects at the
dose levels in the study,

A two-hour general discussion between and among the four guests and Dr.
Durbin followed the building tour, The chief topics discussed were how
to explain the observed differences in the metabolism of the transuranic
clements among species. The usefulness and verifiability of models of
human Pu metabolism were considered at great length. New areas of re-
search in internal emitters problems were considered including the influ-
ence of age on local dose and ultimate biological end-points; the useful-
ness of common experiments with various species particularly those with
known variations in iron metabolism, bone formation rates and liver func-
tion.


13-00000

5 HOt
with AS

Dr. Durbin proposed a collaborative effort with two of Dr. Hoskaley's
colleagues. They have collected data on human skeleton weights, but
now do not have the time or interest to write up their material. Dr.
Durbin has collected all of the 19th century and early 20th century
human bone weight data and would like to add the modern Russian material
lev agreed to propose a joint article with his
colleagues looking towards publication in an international journal. He
sus ested that the original data would be forwarded in any case as soon
as it could be copied.

In the late afternoon the visitors toured (briefly) the Bevatron guided
by Ralph Thomas; the californium separation facility guided by Francis
McCarty; and the Hi-lac guided by Al Ghiorso. Dr. Moiseev, who is a
physicist, was very much intrigued by the proposal to make an advanced
scientific instrument by joining the Bevatron and the Hi-lac. Dr, Moska-
lev was not interested in how the machines worked,"physics was not his

“Phelathe said, put asked what he as a biclogist might do in the nature
‘of radiobiology experiments with such machines.

Dr. Hoskalev regretted that it had not been possible to visit with Dr.
“Tobias. (We could probably have fit in a few minutes or made arrange-
ments for the following day, but I had run them ragged with sight-seeing
the day before, Monday was very full, and frankly they were exhausted
and needed rest. pwd). They would also have liked to visit the Medical
Services group. Mrs. Low-Beer tried to fill them in on the duties and
routine of that group.

Comments on money, budgets, problems of communication, demands on tine,
such as committees, etc. ran thpough all of the conversations. Dr. Nénot
and Dr. Noiseev spoke English and understood it well. Dr. Nokkalev and |
Dr. Nasse understood more English than they could speak, All four are
chiefly oéciipied with radiation protection and especially with problems
raised by internal emitters.
tive on the ICRP internal de : p
{pent of nuclear power in their countries et a fast pace,
‘includes, as they were csrefvl to point out, Pu fest bree:
the overriding interest in Pu and its transplutonium conte

sion of Riclog
ive good marks

The Russian visitors will te guests of the AEC D:
Medicine in Washinton. (I fcel certain we will rec!
hosts ond ao sciontists. pw).

One further pgint needs to be added. Although nuclear medicine is not SQ

a cuurent specialty in either country, and the vse of nuclear medical
techniques, especially as diagnostic tools, is very limited, the two
physicians indicated thay they personally were much interested, and there
was a definite trend in both countries towards more and more use of

such tools, "It is coming", they said.

ry
