# 104-10433-10016

## Page 1

1104-10433-10016)

361 - 723

9 December 1963

Disposition - This document was denied. The document is based on

information received from alo diso scourt, service which it obtained from?

[sensitive intelligence operation run by thatservice) The information is

concerned with the attempt of an American to contact the Cuban Embassy in a

foreign city. The reason for this atteripted contact apparently had to do with an

interest in obtaining a visa for a visit to Cuba. The individual involved was

never found to have any involvement in assassination plans or activities. The

document also contained information confirming the existence of an Agency

station in a specific city abroad, information confirming a/liaison) arrangement

with a forlon sony servicd, as well as information identilying the kind

of intelligence operation which produced his particular information. Given the

data to identify the kind of operation, the specific source of the operation would

also be evident. Both matters are considered sensitive by the oreign service

which provided the information.. Those factors required that the information

continue to be handled as classified. This particular document also identifies

a number of Agency components and several Agency staff employees. The

document was denied under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b)(3) and?

(b) (6).

F3:

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

ORIG VIrginia Benshaw:

UNIT

EX: 39407

1/3 Reports MegiNDEx

SECRET)

DATE: 8: DOG

SE DIFILEIN CS FILE NO.

• NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TO

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATTON

FROM BOSSUEIX CENTRAT, INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CON C/NED

INFO

12-62

ROUTING.

9 DEC:63 15 1 6z

SIERREN

ROUTINE

TBI

INFOS

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SUBJECT

LICHANCE NE, ARICAN HOTLE A TON A TONE N

BASSY MEXICO CITY O

INTEL MEXICO CITY NEWS OF 5 DECEMBER 1963. CARRIED A PICTURE

O RICHARD BEYHERE AMERICAN MOVIE ACTOR, SHHO VAS A DELEGATE TO THE FILM

FESTIVAL BEING HELD IN ACAPULCO.

BEYHER HASHIN TOUCHAWITH THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITYSO

ON 2 DECOMBER, AND A PERSON BELIEVED TO BE, BEYNER WAS IN TOUCH WITH THE

EMBASSY ON 30 NOVEMBER HE WANTED TO SPEAKITO SILVIA DURAL WHO WAS NOT

ALITHE EMBASSY

ANOTHER, EMPLOYEE, TOLD HIM TRAT NO REPLY HAD BEENE

RECEIVSS FROLL CUBA,

CLASSIFICATION REVIEWE

CONDUCTED ON? 4 MAY 1976

WHISK ON ICE HASINO INFORMATION ON BEYHER

IMPDET CL BY 072208

DURANTS THE MEXICAN EMPLOYER OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY HATE, WHOM

1.35 I, OSVALD VAS TATOUCH RECARDING A VISA FOR CUBA.

THIS: INFORMATIONS FOR YOUR USE ONLY AND MAY NOT BE DISSEMI-

NATED WITHOUT PERMISSION FROM THIS AGENCY,

£ Document Number

361-123

END OF MESSAGE

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1975

Based on:

Cornan

JANE ROMAN/

I] 7220;

72824,3 December

NEXT 7239, EN 745286 5 December

1963

1963

GROUP 1.

SECRETE

downgrading and

dectassification..

REPROPUCTION BY OTHER: THAN THENSSUING OFFICE IS: PROHIBITED.

(GAT)

OFFICER

Copy. No.

---

