# 104-10095-10189

## Page 1

104-10095-10189

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2 # MAR :375

MEMORANDUN FOR: Deputy Director for Adninistration

FROM

Robert N. Canbino

Director of Security

SUBJECT

:Morrow, Robert Dietz

1. This memorandun is for your information only.

dr. Angus M. Thuerner,

assistant to me del, has

advisod that it. Fred Blunentral of Parade magazine hac

telephonically

contacted hin and said that a Robert D.

Morrow had vritten a book entitled Betrayed, which was due

for publication in May 1976.

Mr. Blumenthal advised that

he is currently reviving this boos, and that it contains

some Critical coments concerning the Agency, e.g. the

Agency was responsible for the assassination

of President

John F. Kennedy-

Mi. Blumenchal also stated

that Mr. Morrow

clains

ta have

been a CIA contract man. Mr. Slumenchal

desired to verify Mr. Morrow's clained

association wich

the Agency, and Nr. Thuerner requested that this Office

review its

files to ascertain wether Mr. MorroW was

in fact'associated with the agency, and if so, what infor

mation could be passed to Mr. Blumenthal.

3.

The Office of Security does have a file on

Robert

at Pittsburgh,

Penasylvania. Mr. Morrow, as of June 1962, Was Presidont

of MOrTON Products, Iuc.,

located in Baltimore, Maryland,

the sacurity staff of the Office of Logistics as

granted a Secret contrace clearance for use by the Offica

of Connunications on 10 Septenber 1962.

The Agaucy then .

entered into a contract with vorrow Products, Inc., to

produce a prototype of an ajapter. to be used wich a radio

receiver whic purportudly would greatly reduce incor-

forence, A model of the adapter vas delivered to the

Office o Coamunications in Febraary 1965, but the device

vas found to be worthlass and ths contract vas cerminatod.

ED-FOR RELEASE 1993-

05 5 1232

123-

185 9414

---

## Page 2

14-00000

4 ..

subsequently, on 1 Catober 1953, ike U. S. Secret

Service arrested a Cuben exile leader, Mario Garcia Rohly,

XI. Morrow and his wifs,

Localy, Is connection rich

pios to lood Cuba Hata 550, 000,000 in counterfeit sesos to

depress the Castro econory.

IT. Kohly was the leader of

shis scheme, while bit. Morrow and his wife were charged with

maling the plates for the counterfeit bills.

whea interrogated by the U. S. Secret Service, advised that

NI. Kohly supplied hin with a counterfeir 20 pasos bill

which Mr. Xohly said was offored for sala

to hin fron

agosts of the Cld in Miani.

Morrow also stated that

he had become associated with a "certain agent" after

building a devico which ho denonstrated to this agency.

The Secret Service was advised in 1963 that the Agençy

did not have any interest in st. Kohly.

Thore is no information in this file verifying

Kohly's allegation that he had obtained the

counterfeit

bill from agents of the CIA.

6. Mr. Thuermer has beer advised that he may tell

Et. Blumenthal that the Agency entered into a contract with

Morrow Products, Inc-, in September 1962 whereby NT. Morrow

has. to dovelop a piece of eguipsent, but that the contract

terainated in April 1963 after the prototype of the

equipment had been tested and found to be unsatisfactory.

Robert #. Gambino

Distribution:

Orig. &

• 1. - Adse

- D/Sec

1

- CD Reading File

1 - Subject File

02

OS/PSI/CD

Retype

nf

(18 March 1976)

P]m (24 March 1976)

2/pd

---

