# 104-10194-10018

## Page 1

104-10194-10018

MATERIAL REVIBED AT CIA HEUCUAKTERS BY...

HOUSE SELECT COMITTLE ON ASSASSINATIONS STUFF MORBERS

SECRET

FIL: TITLE/BERNOLDE: AYERS, BRADLEY EARL

INCLUSIVE DATES: 6 JUly 1964 - 30CT 1976

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CP

ROOM: 5.E13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

3-9-2F

DATE

RETURVED

2-9-78

REVILNED BY

(PRINT NANE)

Pole a del

SIGNATURE OF

REVILWING OFFICIAL

Jour Haribect

NO DOCINENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REVOVED FROM THIS FILE.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

Cassi

Criminals

DER WILL CHECK

_CLASSIFIED

NTOR ANO BOTTO

""TIAL

SECHLT

•AN)

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

Adry

NAME ANO ADDARES

1- F-04 HQ

€ in

da ins

tion,

ionis.

1AX

ecchi i 0CT.19/5

litie:

r hy

4014.,

SCALA

ire

hich.

pear

nilse

AnCe

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURMENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATICN

RETURN

SIGMATURE

• 5.

1'8-

Remarks:

Ritocked in the file

her

lequity.

stile-

Delo make book ad I'r added

tiful

-ple

TOSS

fiCr

sh.a-

Le

tly

Otis.

•kes

1S. con ive holl thin file at 19 pre

FOLD HERE TO RETURN

FROM:

MANK. ADORES®

PHOMI ANC

Lisanel

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDEATIAL

SECRET

ro9s ne 237

Uso premious aditions

0r5.

tion

•ОП+

des

811-

1535.

the

for

OUR WORDS

FROM

ARO

CiN HCUSE

mialired Pasies

rivinciantici ilber

is

Fren 120m

"ries "Currently

ising in Tanisia. le has delivo

crin! himseil do a tersy cuper

in MERDER AT 1HE FRANK-

FURT COON FAIR (Doubieday,

$5 95).

And it is a caper that

trasa sharp catting rige. Mon-

all a tando 8 giri e

Cere 76-1010611

The man behind the CIA's

Cubin operations tells how he

almost became our man

in Havana.

TRIE

11702

TENT NEVER WAS

BRADLEY FARL AYERS

Copiain, U.S. Ariny

Tra lunt incido account ol bow boCtained

madler Cubar anti-Casie guerir Ashters ut,

Licãon hasos in florida cad tho Prioras. l:

you rever mondered wietwent long is Ciba

fod find this unarysoied account intiguing)

nembuiressing! *8.95

BROBES-MEESILL

GOD 8 637S303

the

Gink

movent, in le disusti issue o

a nen 16124

•j irlerind trussiand

in the U.S. Mas gel raiess and i

---

## Page 3

The Washington Me.

oCo-Mound

THE WASHINGTO HOST Serarday. Age 17,198 D15

CIA Plotted to Blast Cuba Refinery

By Jack Anderson (sinstlon team actually rached)

Yet some of the raiders sur, campus of Miaml University.

a Havana rooftop within rifle

alved. One of them.

a young!

Though

its

doors passed

The full, fantastle story of range of Casim.

But like theer domy captaln names Brad some

of the

¡the Bay

of Ples has beenjothers, this

squad also was les:

-Der tias emeraged fram

nation's

most

accret operatives: the dapper

buried for 10 years dery in thei

caught and tortured.

under cover. He has given us John Roseill, rusged Bill Has

arrera. to his notes, documents ses.

"Kip"

Robertson

and a

Central Intelligence Arnes's Refinery Raid

and draft chapters of a book huge dew

Mexican

fortresslike headquarters near!

the is writing about his raids memberal only as "The Big

Lancley, Va.

Som to have learned of a

ClA plot lo

blos

All

the

world knows that

up Cuba'g for tho ClA

lindian.®

most productler oil refinery.

exlles

"The Cuban experience." ho

Ayers dot the aralennient of.

CIA tralned

Cuban

Painstakina preparations were told us, "has been a plague onitraining a foush Cuban cadre

stnrmed

ashore on

# Cuban

i made, and a cummando team

ithe

national corsclence as it'in the

swamps of the

Ever.

brachhrad and

were

cut

to

¡was siven intensive training.

has been on mine. I think it'rislades and the beaches of the.

pleces by Dictator Fidel Cas-i

tra's milliamen 10 years ago that they showed evers: bush.

Csine U.2 photos so detailed high time that at least part keys.

of the story be told."

tie

supposed to.

teach there chough aurt land

But the CIA has con-

Nia).

talward

Roderick.

'Ing skill,

underwnter swim-.

leealed from the world how it!

Army engineer on loon to the

ming,

continued to send assassina.

demolition,

boat

han:

CiA, constructed a mockup of

A former paratrooper, pllot dling and simple survival for.

Uon

feams

Bndl

rommando.

the plant. ile eson figured out and demolitions expert, Car- them to lead conmandos trito:

squaas against Cartro.

mortars couid

be

preitain Agors was training rong. Cuba lo biow up the mului..

Bit by bla, stories of these;aimed. then placed by

comers at Falin Air Force

Base, million doilar refiners.

inoss invasion sortles are leak mandon in a precise spot and flo, when he peceised orders

The story of their night land.

¡to report to the Army's Spellogs in Cuba and the great oil:

vealed, for exomple, how the

Chid used a awashbuckling un-t

cause a human error of

an inston,

derworld figure, John Roselli,linch

180

make

six

1w)

could

send

lle

unsuccessful mortar shell into an inhabitel|ral, psychiatrle and lie detes-

was pu? thrush physl. Cupirol Conversalion

assassinalion

attempta

upon area. Then the whole plan sasitor examinations for a week.

From the Horse's Mouth

Castro.

junked after

President Ken- then he

was hustled over to We have aiready reported thai

The

CIA

assianed

two/nely's assassination:

the

ClA's Cubon section.

Attorney

trusted

Billy

Harg

General John

Mit-

agents,

We have also learned that

Ile was questioned for three chell will resign from the Cab-

and

"Ble Jim" O'Connel, 10 the CIA seattered. sco bills fays

by CIA

direct

the

offickals

who.

inet to run Fresident Nixon's

murder

missions. around like green confetti toltinaily satisfied, provided him 1072 campaign,

On the first two tries, Rosel finance the clandestine

operating

AL.

anti-mitla a cover

story,

phony fose out vi his former law of

It's

assassins

Bought to

slip, Castro

oprrat.uns.

Bales

of, documents

and a

ticket

to fice. Now insiders teil us the

li poison

pellers Into

Castru'si money

were

delivered

to: Miami.

He adopted the name President is considering Wit

1food. The next four attempts Cuban exile

leatters

were

who Danicl B.

te leadink

MNR.415

lam Huckelshaus, now the en.

made by

equipped

sniper teams fave

with

no socounting of how assigned to a ClA front caller

vironment coar, as. Mitchell's

highpowered; they spent ii

• Paroson Alr Service.

Belgian rifles,

exlosives and!

ramirerras

During his

Sume were stashed by men'

The CIA lodged Ayerg and

appearance on the David Frost

180 way ratios.

since killer. Other thousands Roderick In a luxurious brach

Show, Mitchell denied our re".

There were midnight power were buried In former piraie house in Key Biscayne.

¡boat dashes to secret landing lairs in the Florida Kers. Still two

undercover

Arrr.y

The

port that Los Angeles Sheriff

nien

Peier Pitchess had been sound.

spots on the Cuban coast and, more thousands were strewn'sorked out of a ClA tront-led out about taking J.

machine gun exchanges in the on the beaches of Cuba where a columned building with the! Hoover's job. lie got the story.

dark

of

night

with

Cuban would-be

raiderg

leit

their cover name of Zenith Techni-

pairol boats.

The last assas, bones.

lE terprises on the south roma Bhe Moscall

€ 1971. Bri-SorTure 990dica:6. Inc.

---

## Page 4

The Washington Verry- Go-Kound

THE WASHINGTOY POST Tuecluy, Apel28,1218 1315,

Telltale Traces of CIA Cache Found

By Jack anderson

however.

he told

jied in former plate laire ill tory and showed us the bonk bille

un his discoverer a sheat uf three

the Florida deja

matter

My assoclate Les Whitten

with

records.

We also checked out murt and krass.

has just returned from a treas.

Sorrel CIA Sile

his verachy careilly, & sent

The hills were neor wrapa

jure hunt for burled CIA cash

L.es

Whitter

10

accompany lot a road map, which Ayere

One who perked up his ears him hack

In the Florida Keys whera pl.

to the keys te re|sald had been used as a wrap

over the wllspere was Headley rover the ClA money. Vie notl iper for

the suitcase

rates

onco. stashed Spanish

bills.

AJºT9. A former Army coplain,

fied the Treasury Departent, Treasury

record

wher

the

kold.

To Tas on loar to the CIA In in generat

terms, that all re-tbilis

He found one cache where 1063.64 to train Cuban assault

covered

CIA

cash

were

printed

between

woale PrejApril, 1000, and Auzust, 1938.

turned over to the Trearary.

thousands In moldins $20 bills teams. One training site had!

There is no way to prose this

had been burled. But someone

been krated

Treasure Hunt

was part of the money which

on

Upper Key

had reacher? the secret alte?

Largo on land that the Mon-

Whitten,

Ayers and Ayera

the ClA contioued in provide

lanti-C"nutro exiles. Hit the sto-

ahead of him. Ail. Whitten me

County

tax assessor's of wile flew to an air strip ontries that leil to the cache caine

I found

were

siX

rice Identified as belonging to Upper Key Larzo. Caing it aslin part to Ayers from Cubin:

weathered. the University of Miami.

a base

of operationa,

inatierl $20 bills hiat appar-

they the helped train for the CIA.

Tho Cla also operated outireconnoltered the dark man.

ently had been dropped about

of a front, called Zenith Tech- grore thickets, slugalah con.

1200 sards away.

nical Enterprises, on the uni. ols, treacherous swamps at sea

Washington Whirl

versity's south campus. Thus grass

and crocodile-infested

Voluntrer Army-Preniden:

In an earler column, wo re-

the

Nixon ls leading the opposi.

ported that the Central Intelli

respond universey det creeke where Avera had ease den in his own proposal turn

gence

Agency had dollvered.

the

or otherwise, providestitrained Cuban commandor.

hales of 320

bills to Cuban

sito

for

an

extension

For two days, they cruzged

volunteer Army-at icast for

course in Infiltration and dem. through the creckg in a atal.

the next two years. At o secret

¡ exile. Ieaders to finance clan-

olition.

low draft 18 foot aill, started While House legislatice con-

169421149

operations

against

avers learned enough from occasionally by the harks ofference, he warned COs cur.

Communist Cuba.'

his former trainees to fisure crocodiles.

.issassination

When they

Leadera:

teams,

sabo

out where some of the ClA convineed no one was tolues.

vates

and the

dralt muy

18350

squads

and

commando money might be hidden.

Heling. they plunged through un. look popular temporarily. But

units were sent against Castro told

us he discovered a halt. derbrush

50

thick

they in the

long slew, our recom.

after the abortive lays of Plys buried

suitcase full of mold. couldn't see four feet ahear.

mandallons

estonet

invasion.

Theso nilistong ap. ing, mutilated $20 bills.

parently

wero

halted

after

The

Finally they came upon the fraft for (wn years) will prove

sultcuse

was in a re- bramble-cloaked

(Frisident Kennedy's assassi. more spot

site

wherelen be right." While House aide

that he was confi. Ayers said he had discovered felt

Flanigan

explained in

jestion. But the CIA continued dent wouldn't be discovered. the suitcase. The soil it the the leaders that " ahortfall

sir slip Infiltraton icams into lle look out a dozen bllls to hiding place had been turnediot 100.000

men Is expectedl"

Cuba to gather intellisinco.

make sure they weren't coun lun and alited for. 10 yards in seat year. He.

deserthed thir

The ClA pald all expenses, terfeit.

Bank+

apparently,

in

cash.

redeemed

all all directions. The underbrush administration's plans u

Huge but two badly weathered $20 and sea grass

were trarapled leourage volunteers hy offering.

sumg

were turned

over to bille

as If by many feel

financial incentlves, ireluding

exile leaders, who gave no ac-l.

Then Ayers' house was mys.

The

sultcase

fuli of cur-la 35,000 benus to those

To tars

vunting of how they spent lt. terlously broken Into and rec-

rency was gone. Disappointed lail! reenlist for combat duty.

There

were

whispers

thatlords

of his find were taken.

they combed the ares. Within But ke warned this

"Helle

sure money had disappeared Fearing the ClA or Cuban ex-

a quarter mile, Whitten specimean cuts in other vital areas

private bank

Accounts,| ileg

watchig him,

he

ted

a tattered $20 blil. Agers in the Detentr Depariment'

that other thousands were bur dared not return to the cache. Jfound two more, then Whiten

@ 18:1. Bell-be Clure Bradleble, 856.

---

## Page 5

Jach Anderson

JFK Death: Halted

Livi

Cuban Oil Raid

THE SUPPFESSED STORY

car mum be trid of how the

Central Intellizence Agency

organized a Cuban estle raid

on Cuba's key oil setinery in

1903 but aborted ll after the.

assassination

of

f'resident

Kennedy.

lasiders sav the corporate

oil giants,

amping eventually

to preover their property in

Cisa, broucht quirt pressure

lo quash any raids upon re

fineries.

17n0nn

Jolinson,

who

canceled the raid after

AYERS ron off simulated

raids

near

Card

sound

azainst a local Southern Bcll

micronase facility

with

hian

amurite fence.

Other

nichts, he shared block beans

and

fice,

drank and sinked

"good" with his Cuban carre

The racias recruits grade

ually borame a fichtine tram.

For firsthand experience.

secretly necompanied tup in.

filtration groups on suissions

to Cuba.

ruecreding dis. rennedy in

the

White House,

was close

so Texas oil Interests.

He have learned the dra.

malie

detalls

frcm

Bradley

were a 36ycarold

former

Arms

captain,

who was se

lected by the

CiA to train

Cubon

exiles for Infiltration

and assault missions Inclur.

ing the refinery fald in Ma-

tanzas province.

have

checked

out

Ayers' story

with

our own

sources,

who confirm he is

correct about naines, places

and dates. From a croup of

pictures, igers also was able

to

picke

out inmartiately is

Cid

unnercover

operatlve

who we knew hud been in.

voived

in

the CIA raids

against Cuba.

The rugged Ayers, a for-

mer Army ranger Instructor,

trained the retivery raiders.

The

recruiling for the mis.

sion had already been com-

pirted

before

was

85.

signed to the project. ClA of.

ficials

took

him

by

motor

launch through swampy Ever.

giades canals and across the

open sea to secluded Florida

Koss to mect the iccruits.

Avers and the ClA men se.

lected Palo Allo Kics.

Upper

Key Largo and Card Sound

on

the

edge of the Pver-

glades

as

training

sitcy.

•Most of the Cubans." said

•Isers,

"were

bank

clerks.

busboys,

waiters. inusicians,

laborers, mon

who had died

do the United States.

Many

had

never

fired a weapon.

They were disorganized and

undisclpilned.

1 50% the job

of reorganizing the training

program."

"I'e

went on & commcr-

clally

rissed

trawler,

"covere rossrl." he said.

ran hlackout under a quarter

moon, lowine a 1:20 Laubel, 3

high-powered mberglass

coul.

"We eschanced licht sis

nals

with

the

martisans

ashore in f'icardel Rio and

launched tito

rubber boats,

The toam made contoct with

the partisans. and we picked

und

sounded

mAn

shored

been a prisonor of Castro.

Trot

thp

Caban

partisar.g

were carcless with the lichts.

•Aller se got the soundedl

man into a rubbeg

boat,

were discruered by a Sovich.

lope patrod crait with spre-

lights. We corered our with.

drawval

with

machineguns

fron the V:20 huat. Althouth

ne 800k casualties, we finally

Got back to the trawler. Our

boats were pretly well shot

up.

"On the way home. We saw

a Cuban fishine craft flying a

distress flag and fourd it had

a load of refusers. He took

them on board."

sprand portic lo cache

supplies for agents already in

Cuba was less eventful. Fi

nally,

in

september,

1303,

Ayers was insiructed by the

Clo to make detailed train.

Ine plats

for the refinery

raid.

Ile was given sperific or

dei's not

en land

0? Cuba

himsels during the raid. But

he was too emotionally in.

solved

with

the

Cubans'

cause to stay out and wrote

himself into

the plans.

*ITe

vere all on a lise-for-toda)

omorrow-we-die philosophy.

he explained.

But on tho day of the final

rchcarsal. President Kennedy

was killed, and the ClA or-

dered dyers to shut down the

operation. "I was in a sort of

trauma"

said the swashbuc.

Kling

instructor.

"*1

made

trips to Mashintion to piend

the

cause

of the freedons

fishters with the minor nfil.

cials 1 knew. But I just got

disappointed and anary."

Finally In Octolier,

1069,

resigned from active

duty with a lone statement of

principle

1o

his

C1.1

a0ad

superlors.

"As a solo

diet.

/had

been tavaht

shoulin't question

political

or

diplomatio

dclion."

he

sorole.

"But as a freethink.

ins

Amortein

citieen,

couldn't. saberdine.

my

duts.

country

8a8 110

longer playing to win.

and

my faith in the coals to which

dedlested

my life

shaken."

€ 1918. HeiloldeClure Bondiesie, 80d. a

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL.

(when Filled ta)

INVITEE APPROVAL

DATE

YOUR

REFERENCE:

CASE NO.

TO

:

ATTN

:

SUBJECT

6 July 1954

2322ú (USA)

366095

Chicf, kirD

: AYERo, Bradley E.

..

This 1s

to inform you that clearance is granted to invite

Subject to Headquarters for

interviews.

This 13 not a clearance for Subject's access to classified

material or information.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

11. Q. Parime

Chief, Personer Secrity Division.

1088 1173b

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

(when Filled In)

SECURITY APPROVAL

DATE

:. 10 August 1964

YOUR

REFERENCE:

23826

DDP/WH/SA (USA)

CASE NO. :

366085

TO

: Director of Personnel

ATTN

• MMPD

SUBJECT

: AYERS, Bradley Earl

1.

This is to inform you that Subject has been approved for the

appointuent specified in your request under the provisions of

Headquurters Regulations 10-3 and 20-5 including access to

classified Information through TOP SECRET as required in the

performance of duties.

Unless arrangements are made within 60 days for entrance on duty

within 120 days, this approval becomes invalid.

3. As purt of the entrunce on duty processing:

personal interview in the Office of Security must be arranged.

A personal interview is not necessary.

Please advise Chief, Clearance Branch, extension 5620

Subject enters

on duty.

44.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Chief, Personnel Security

Division

10.6, 1173

CONFIDENTIAL

191

---

## Page 8

14-00000

26. 650bor 1964

TOs

no dijubent vanorai ibrruleh chanals

iopartont of the May

washtagton, Do C. 20315

i, hradlay

io ayars, causaln, anfantry, 07L210, heret, bosder

my usullfied rostanatlen

Ire tuo army indet

Gio ;rauladons of veculon

1Il, di 635-320, to bo ofioclive 20 Loconvor 19Ch.

?0

civilian lifo and tho sursult of privato

enterprise.

I unoratand tat i13 postinatien, 18 secopion, mill bo ac ejced

undor ho oraule conditions, ani that i vill

bo turnisnoil a diacharee 0g

Elficato as doverninod 1a liea quartors, apertmont of tho aray.

prasent ruty attien rachiniton, d. Los isolennont la amy fezont

Jolnt jupport Grcup (377:9).

5.

I do dasiro apuciament in un Uniter setos arny iosorve.

pilcusion atlachou.

sp

coulcal exininazion reporta, ituncard icona tú aid 89,

fornlanda at à lator daco.

2124.89

C...

;i: :

Mich

28

U/×210

capacio, indaaury

hün ädüg jo age lp (al 700)

C

Distribution:

.Orff & 1 - Add

1 - c/MMPD

1 - Agency

1 - Suspense

10.90

: rand/2735(26ictEi)

C.::

---

## Page 9

CONFIDENTIAL

FINAL CLEARANCE RECORD

OFFICE•CE TAL CONPTROLLER

FINANCE DIVISION

OFFICE OF ABSIGOMENT

TOISEAL DiVISION

366085

AFERS, BRADLEY EARL

DDP/SAS

REASON FOR CLEARANCE

RESIGHATION

Separation

INTENDED LEAVE

orvin (Specdfr):

ren to parentsve

VIRTFTCATTON

OR

CERTIFICATION OF OFFICIALS

I HAVE REMINDIN

IME RECOROS Of

THIS CONCOMER!

OR MAT SAT SAACT HI BES RECED ME COLISATION TO CONS COMPONENT.

TXCEPT AB INDICATED, ONE CMPLOYEE NANCO IS CLEANED

ROOM NUMBEN A BLDE.

CLEANED EY

INSURANCE BRANCH, OP

2025

R

& S

CANTRAL PROCESSINE BORDEN, OP

1D-70

VEto

3d F1-159

Lafo

LIBRARY.

Oca (Languade

tain)

CREDIT

UNION, 0P

1J-33, Hqg

1 gfe

REGISTRAR, OTA

FISCAL DIVISION

FINANCE DIVISION

GH- 4408

343

Has

44/3-F -

Ex 36.56

South:

495T

OFFICE OF SECURITY

4E-50

Transportation

2313

Hqs

Qtra Eye

x Exlt Interylew

1337

R&S

CONMENTS (DAdA perInininA do soy rorplions to abora cloarancoo, ete.)

CONTINE CAriN STARE

1506 104 ML

T gio

FORWARDING

ADDRESS

CERTIFICATION. AND FORMARDING ADDRESS OF SEPARATING EMPLOYEE

BINDEZ, STREET. COPY, 2046.

STATE

1020 N Owen St, Stillwater, Minnesota

¡BINDER, STREET, CITY. ZONE.

STATE

CHECA

NAILING

ADDRESS

(11 0810r

than

above)

I CLariFY

THAT

TO THE DEST IN LT ANONLEDGE AND BELDEr.

90256

41274

PAINEMAT

АССОЦИРЕС БОР АЛО ТМАТ ! ДИ МОТ

OF MY CONNICTION WITH THE

DEEN RETURNED OR

TO CARMENT CO STATES SOVEARMEHY MATSOFVER AS A RESULT

DATE

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

CERTIFICATION (This forD is invalid

malhoul custoriaod signatura)

IS'TO CERTIEY THAT THE

#ANNE LISTED COMPONENT

OFFICIALS AND THOSE LISTED ON

FOoM 21d (or their desidnees) HAVE

GIVEN POSITIVE VERIFICATIDS DE CERTISICATION THAT THE SEPARAPING EMPLOYEE MAS DISCHARGEO HIS OGLIGATIONS TO THE

COMPONENT.

RETURNED OR

FOR

ANY

FUMPS OR

PROPERTY #NICH HAS

BEEN ISSUED TO NIN, OR SATISFACTORILY ARRANGED

SETTLEMENT OF ASY AGDEGTEIDISS YO THE AGENCY.

OATE

SIGRAT DE DE AUTUORIZEO OFFICER DE DEFICE

TITLE

Il,vecols

FORM

8-63 21 08806

/Na jor, Inf

CONFIDENTIAL

DC, ArRy, lavy : Marine orps Br, MPD

sarators

{4-41

---

## Page 10

ta-intotder

i...

62a7 2121

Teas pln

i lale oprenta

→. •s!?

A24"| 193

! CHTAN C !3 (1

deiitr,n

iarrie"

" pr.te

39

..il dears

Tusan

•;i"

i wii"gtsr

sise suf ró

dlatary Galecarmcoa m-arornoms

Dre lyer, trlircton, Virciir

t'.i!

lotet i

,o..:

17:5

3 Iteeieersrris

115. Se0 13t

qr it

tonnaoacaadoo Me MNatrasorn

? Tera 25eA .-

Pittt.CiD

psir'rla

12/.

"tieral Tl

':':'?.

M!111:1010960:0009 19.à1.

N/d,

11Nd!

e./:

11.'!

rridi tp':

spooteit

1l!llUNi°

wwirdon) Mirtrcotd

!.. мт!....лА:!1

Ato 1000, 8. id9*.1111 1:

•1 Trtiodofry

•. 9,

[st:"

"i:

64i 25

wen efr

"'Ny

ơ z /.t.t

jeicormmator de sdar drio dcio puree md

'nin.

oel ponriltg

Gest2is

iir.t doeaiiy

Tiranferoroer.

•N G ТТ0Н 99 901997

111188 •0E00k.1:

1199i1 liune 11/ 8 10.0 00

3

•?].

11

i%

JÁpui Si's

16.

nrrkitt

116-

codddeei dia Brreure

C.chae eedlCe deodD sioec dFrior!

Anae moa seorei dino

127

C.G.

cordtact

•dali tuoeat Inf itige:

"u!"! Dot cve lodel:

arror Aid "AP:

"ister

Penrcinte

w cemurationr

MtENI."

Acirnia

rdrihe

tein ir

Me MuRre"wr

njoratioan,

iinc.

Irésif li'a 'Doron lon;

iI!'

1!1.

birel

it?lirn

01.a

is!

11.3-

l':4

Btcs-

TI:iT

•leddondled dl dend dRddne Tyipni" a

i ügr ria th?

hagptcenpitn

rir

,:?

fiaice ll2

'15

ilia.miiofur

'?!.

vt:

"2n CH!g!

343als-2a0e

S1/4.

17. T7

ta!,c

A.rie:

cospulsinte

•l tryrriuct

Woawetice

tH•EwidTI

arM Miriel

"/:

.:!...

Cor 10 uiaxg

neari?"

leaw.

CiP il den §t:

r209.0 ,08i3,

.C..

irc -

1137,

?TiR

^l: tikt Airn

Air-g to"

"sridd:

tes lut coig frtae

-10....

:ACC/2

iir

"lwa"?

e hisfiuC!

a- a mane main

DI

ARuto Foortfor.

.TE UEEIED STATES,

KEP:TRI EF TRANOFIR OE DISCHANGE

---

## Page 11

14-00000

DLS:

22 DEC 64

DES

1. SER'AL NEUTER

366085

AYERS BRADLEY E

1. SATNRE ON PERSONNEL ACTION

SEPARATION RETURN TO PARENT SERVICE

FUNDS

Y.10 Y

IF 1O Y

• 10 (8

IF 10 (5

BST DESCRATIONS

U.S. FIELD

FORWARD OPERATIONS STATION - UNWAVE

PARAMILITARY BRANCH - SECTION 111

RESISTANCE, CRE INDEP POL GROUPS

17. POSITION TITLE

PARAMIL OF

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 18, 09c.)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

MI

0136.11

J8. REMARRS

SECRET

• (When Filled Ia)

NOTIFICATICN OF PERSONNEL ACTION

4. EFFECTIVE DATE TS. CATEGORY OF EMPIOYMENT

12 | 15,64

MILITARY

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

TO. ESE DR CTMER TEGAL AUTHORITY

5135 1164 000n

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

JMWAVE

12. POSITION NUMBER

1053

16. GRADE AND STEP

03 0

¡J. SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

782.00

19. A(9109: 39. Ematey.

$ 21.

C00€

Cede

46

30

OFFICE CODING

•M 7B. MTE EXPIRES

=3.

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

29. STATION

23. INTEGREE

24. Hidairs.

75. DATE OF BIRTH

CODE

CODE

Code

Da.

103 / 07/35

RETIREMENT DATA

COSE

¡ 31. SEFARATION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

TYPE

но.

• 26. DATE DE GRADE

¡ 17. DATE OF LEI

yu.

33. SECURITY

REO. N0.

J6. SEX

EOD DATA

3S. VET. PREFERENCE

CODE

0. neve

J8. SEAY. COMP. DATE T 37.10NG. COMP. COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY

мо

DA

COCE

19.

CODE.

41 Sv

FEGLI / MEALTM INSURANCE

O. WAIVER

HEALTHIAS CODE.

1 • 125.

40. SOCIAL SECURITE NO.

11.

CagE

PREVICUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

47. LEAVE (AT.; 43.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

FEFWERECUTETT

CODE

NO TAX EREMPTIONS

ECRN EXECUTED

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

NO, LAR STATECOOR

SERVICE MISS THAN I MAST

2.40

POSTED

12128(4710

SIGNATURE OR SITER /UTHENT'CATION

FORM

1i.ó:

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

(IETI1M1 1JE datomate

838:2:31•20 138

destass.i.canee

1A.5p0:

(When Fulled la)

---

## Page 12

4/

SECRET

(Ther Filled Pa)

DATE PREPARED

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL MUMELA

MATURE OF

PERSONNEL ACTION

TO Y

$. FUNDS

CE TO V

•.

GRGANITATIONAL

(i. 3. FIll)

18.

POSITION TITLE

Fade ID CH

VI TO Cr

CF TO CF

1, 350 1

A. EFFESTIVE DATE REQUESTED)S. CATIGORY OF COPLOINENT

7, COST CERTER NO, CHARCE.

2716

10. LOCATIO% OF OFFICIAL STATION

POSITION NUMBER

ID.

CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

1053

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (G3, LA, O1E.) 89. OCCUFATIONAL SERIES

AND STEP

17. SALARY OR

RATE

0106.11

03

*782.:0

REMARKS

SIGNATURE

OF

REQUESTING

OFFICIAL

DATE SIGHEO

180.

SIGRATURE OF CARESA SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED

OFFICER

SPACE BELOW

OFFICE CODIES

FOR EXCLUSIVE

COOL

CCOC

tox:

APMAGICIO

46.30

28. NiE 1aP:285

00.

SDECIA1

DEFERENCE

• CS.

GETISENENT DOTA

Geor

USF. OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

in surger chasi

2

0212135

nar.

•=.

30. SEDAGATSON 39. 0000001. 19. 1000%.

DAl: 0006

1EP. SOME 05 161

-.

=o.

23. 591.91"

3E0. 4

EOD DATA

35, VEI, PAEFEDENCE

136. 5540. 00040, Dalt

137. 1046.

Co*.

coor

say.

33. 6aдtи CA119941

caRisESy

ccat

P40x19649

GEN 1A: -A:"O 18S.000:6

PREVICUS GONERSONS SERVICE DETA

code

Is af tri.

1=081

2=*

-BAÇAR ID SERLICE (MORE PHER I MUSY

X-upsetere

#5, POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATI

Fem SAS

DATE

APPROVED

12.21-14 H

001

8. 87

1152

085064.

SECRET

GROUP 1.

1al:

---

## Page 13

SECRET

FILLED 118

REPORT OF SEPARATION

* NOB TITLE

DATE

V. MANX ILAST - PIKAT-HIDOLE

AYERS, BRACESY SARI

0 78 210

A OFFICE

•ABAdEVITY COMPUTATION DATE,

Date of Masignment to CIA:

A DATE OF MInTA

NA:

$. DIVISION

D. ORTET RESIGNATION

_ US ATTY GRADE

CaptaLa

7. BRANCH

9 Decamber 1968

T3. REMARNO

LE Col Santangelo

Millary Specialty • Picht Inatructor (71542)

Reason for Lcaving - Return to Parent service

Captain Ayers statod that his military specialty was fully

utiliaed, his grade was consistont with his job and his relations

with co workers vere good.

Subject also stated that he felt his

asignment required an

active duty nilitary person.

U IS NOT RECONMENDEO FOR RE-EMPLOYMENT

10.

15

LJ IS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR

AWLY 1HI98 8

BAMATURE DO BUPERVIACA

10. 18 IS NOT RECOMMENDED FOR RE-EMPLOYMENT

2• A. SANTANGELO

It colonel, Inf.

USA

INSONAIL RELATIONS OFFICIA

IGNATURE OF PLACEMENT CANCER

TONY NO 971 96 I

MORATUNE DO

SECRET

163

---

## Page 14

• piss d, by.

---

