# 104-10116-10261

## Page 1

104-10116-10261

20 Degembar 395T

SUBJECTS

December 2957 rAMPArIS Article Intitled "ma

CIA's " Erown and Root Ilmenatons!"

BROWN and ROOKE IAC. - 1405552

man following employees of short and roos, ine. tart approved for

ontact ano on the dates indicated

HarLE, ROSe +4405552-4

CONE, Isane Neston, Viet Preaident

in Charge of forciga operatioos

13 Narch 1950

I Decembar 1952

. sad

16 Tebruary 1953

-94055525

WARVER, Merritt Allen, Chles

Profeat Accountant

3 Jenuary 1957 And

32 Apris 1957

+ 4405552€

MaraChs, Thonas Sonnata

540555200

RJ, Louts Bell

15 Fabruary 1957 and

& Vag 1957

* Ostobar 1957

84055521

WILLIAMS, Bobby Joa

€C482165

14 July 1965

HAgiR, Richard Andrew, Civil

Sagineer a 1453103

(A PECA vee desuad fOr

contact and assessment bit:

he was sot sad a bad a poor.

credit reyutation,

ROSSES, TInes 5y-49454127

MAcKi, John Gliman; Ir.

1449730

3 August 1965

6 August 2065

19 TuT 1966

BROSE FOURDATTON

more is no o3 moreet file on the Broin Foundation but a referenc

Itze containe a r

morandom duted 30 January 1957 to the Deputy Director, los

SECRET

Excluded tram asterratc

MAgrats I

---

## Page 2

sean Chies, Central Cover Grouy concerning the tareat of expomire s8

Agoney oparaticas and conaludes that the BROWN Joundatiou of Houston,

Taras vas one of the mónt munarablo to exposure beocure publte racorde

reflert Airect ties fron Agenoy Mading tuntmments Identified by.

congressmen PAINAN In 1964 to Legitinata foundationn nad Agenoy

projects they hate sponsored.

p00-57a

private antlanchrople

foundation Legally Incorparnted

under the Imm of end with on office te the District of columbia.

DILA PREY.

(DELIVERA)

195T Decausa of exposure o$ tie Varun Ind in niva mediay the loara

mimbera vera contaoted adriced as followad

Sech Veron Fund boarl member 1e being ravined that be will

receive a copy of the fun and core letters regarding press.

allegationes de vill acknonledge bie nentership on the Vernoa

Fad bourd if centrated with the froti he will acknorledge that the

Vernon Find has supported colk and tuat 1t mads a few mala grante

to sAy be will declina any further comment on the orida or oporatton

of the verzion Funde

he 1111 be usted to return

ory flat or papers relating to the Vernon Mundy he 1a11 be told tbat

DI. CARR (61222an Coorgs Chill) has not get had to identity uny board

membere but wit probably have tos ba vill not coment on the creation

at the Vernon Fud nad hot initial contacts here sade.

RISKs Albert Mete, III - IC278333 (Verwon Fuad Board Nenber)

Albert Alate DIck, JI, Frosideut, As B. DIts Ccanear, Chieuro.

Illtuals, vas granted a Covert Security Approval

PROUBARIS

SURE, NINJURE GOOSES -FALCOSS B End TALESSE

WIISION do CARR vas trented a covert Sacurity Cloarance on 22 Agrid

1955 for smitting use under Prajeet DIPHINS end on 22 Horanbor 1957 an

raceived a Covurt Becurity Approval to penalt dio unn under Projeot

DILIPREY 1s h1o ponitica so Secretary-Cenerel of tea Horld Confederation

of Orgastentiona da the Terating Protesalose

It = 1249238

Jigge illy fre, attarder.

¿FE tha Vernon trad, was grantod & Covert

saculty clearance for list me na a clearad attomeys penel on

---

## Page 3

5 Torene 195 9 29 tod 18 le roas vod notàer

12 Cont Ho Donatione et the Tochter pore n

In ADelI 2907 i discunston voi hald teten en Agency representativ

naà dein muturson and lay sans ot the NCOrp (Horld Contoderation of

Oratantican of the lauching Eraransion conceming suare tunding for

VOrDe Donause of publiosty concoming the funding af woors by the vertien Theod

HCOTP londerabip prenned ita mambership that no surthar Verzdo Fund moder

voild ha accopted untsz, the atats et the Verson Fund san elarifted. Joan

marion felt thirt the best plution montd bu e one tia caly infualco de

masey by starite ches into the score bant noconat to be baeistouped by a

Jotter tran the attorsey for the Verno Find, Bryce rel, to sourd attribute

tho mong to menbers of the Vernos Mnd loard no unangmounty rinhad to

promião ucore rita surricient tonda to dover experisen untis other spirous

In May 1968 nohn 10950 of the Weom desaribed to sa Agency repre

sentative en Intervier hu hud with Mike NACHANS of TIME MAcalas en

I IST I96T tho manted to dineuse tha effects of perspapar publicity on

score operations, Monnia ma espectally intarested in nos commilea torged

en Score sud e requent for froat of the value of scom operations to individum

additions infonation Iron the intaroler to mrant mating his profected

Ramond Joseph ausz

BINASS

in carntatrativa dfloer of the world Contederation of Organizatione of the

Donching Frafosalon.

It mes not ponsiblo te sdentliy e subjaot sila au Joba IcIsc

eloyed by the bardá Grafederation pf oramirations of the Jesching

Fpensione

CAREN FOUTDATIOT

Ds IndIens sure sagative da the CAbOI Foundation. (Ela ThOSte D. CNON)

FAcen Iriende of tùs Middig Dent O 1al9.317 and 865300

Amerfera Friends of the Middle Bast (Projout MuTIen) vas erseted sa

May 2957 sita the purpose os enployiag aggrenaire propagaada to pronota

SECRET

---

## Page 4

the Irienäship of peoples of tar Near md Hiddle Kast tovara the

united tatan ma to court conymist

It and incorporated as a

valuatury, nonrofit mmorahip corporation under the laus of Dew

Tors stato, Docotly ripod, columiat, vas solsttod so chalrman..

In carLy 1987 ATs raudred a tood dal of neuspaper pubilenty con-

ceras to heady affiliation cainE articles it toe sortst press.

1A3S sad VOSa IRIERTATICRAL AWAIA, Syria War the quay exuatry in

indon AMs so nerive that riloi the goation of tir armiation a

continue a existeros in the Leat o1 alinentione pi Agency Eleanoral

sapporty although, there vere rabitago in irag.

Pers so no 08 tabject Miln on the bi Jacinto Int. The nitached

mmornam dated 30 Sanuary 2981 from Cuiet, Coutral Cover Q'oup to

Dujuty Darator, Plans - "Trot Of Exposure of Agony Operaticas .:

statod taRt rAvParis bas expread intense interest in the Se Molato

Fund, and ith sourses of inoc in rarticular, became it Sada y ISPIYOK

M. De AUST Touadatica

mere is no os moject Mile on theM. D. AMAREON Foundation But.

Os ladions reflect a file on the 1 D. ANDERGON raspital and Tumor Institutas

A study progren to deterine the efroots in diverse Blological systema

resulting from exposura to hila intunalty coharont radiation maa contracto

vith the Mi-D. ANDENCON Hospital and Tenor Institute, Univiralty of

Texas: Founton, Teras In October 2963 iut an of 16 April 1064 taere was a

hold order anashit going thend iith the contract buchare of a question

ma to my the Aginey sonia bour the mole cost of the entract which une

to be for ater departnatal sot

In May 1967 a soto 1e the 111e Indicated

that He Do MARCON Fosgital and Tunor Intitute 1111 be mauzed in classtan

tor for the Aguneye Thare uns 10 record of & Clerica Issuade

MARCHER, FOERONION

Bes attached mmoranen disted 30 Jaruary 198T tron Chiot, Central

coyot coup to Deputy director, Flint - Throat of Eposure of Agency

operations Tie MratAte Fondation fa houston, saan an conteered

A "Mon tork Itmen" artiale ton 26 Zebruary 1967 Alsoloned that the

MARSHALI TonatIOn Ol Fouator, Tana chunnelel funds Irod the Agency to

tho school os Inquatisas and Inbor Relations it caracte murarilty fron

296% to 1961.

(S0A DOLLION D. MARRATRES

SECREI

---

## Page 5

Centra Putas DXO, Frecullve Vico Fresident of mot Bod BO0I, Jacop

Ecuatou, tenso, uno anntad a Covent Security Cleamnes on 23 Detaber

1953

IPC0M

Da 82 ipril 1965 ha us grantoe a Proviatonni corart Punity Approval to

poruit acataet and nocecoent of BROHE

and & Covera

Socurity Approval for this una ma issuad on 20 Ja 1965. Tene 029ar82046

maa-ennesied 2 Juno 2907 en 380 tae not uned

7030 495239

torno inctal, Fresident and Director of BROWN and RoCT, Ino., Hounter,

Tenas mû President ond Truntas of tha BROl Fondationg Hongtany Rexas,

us fintad a Covero Securitir Approval on 3 Decenber 2953/

Irconi Into Clearanso mas che

callad 15 Febernruas66

FIARR, M

Magnere

SILVERE, ALIBO: - 4316053.

CoTerior Allea SArVIS of Tana use en the MArioan Iura oe

FABIO FORUM TUNIS In September 1955€

Se wis listed nn a truster of the

Americca dood Coverament Podiety In April 2955.

MIn NUVIRa, doverno of Turao, ma a signor of a statement appenrina

In tha MIw JORE TIKEs for 20 Ostabes 1949 aponnored dy the Iron curtala

Furugue Centninn of the Internationel Ressue Connittoe. The IRC sua de

scrived an bauloully cood, hunitarion organication but may individuale

ot questicabin loyulty bare been pescotated with 15.

A lEN JOrI InS clippiTs for I& Tebruary 1954 ntated that Allnni

ALLARE, Doverior of Denne, cald ha piamod to sue his logiclatino to

make mnbarabio in the Commutet Party a denta pepalty estonse. He rap

quated as ging "In palitica ne orten sper ot biportion lusud. I oan

thint of notaing that moula bo nore bipartiama thra cutching a Comuniot.

Thare cas De no vAlla indua betroen Amricoas oves Commistio

Anticana

me esther po connet or mts-ommalet."

Ho cismince ya regianted de luned for 1AZy213, ILE 1120 dcntatan 1i

refereno curds miy.

B00x, sin

Faentin

SECRET

---

## Page 6

4: 024 251

Maces I. CABOS, st, boy ipproves for contact use on 17 Auguat

IStl. At the tino he ma V1ea Frostdant and Alrector of Interational Relaticion

Taxas Eutadione md Chenical Corporation. He vas residing ta Lausanne,

Entrationd. Contrct intorent vas for brioling Aim on Ayeney Intererta

In economs and political developmenta in various Europe countrles,

chonto industriod darelopment, eter

he sin the sue jest of a navorable

socierun Inventignion la 1952

ET: 1810l

Thorns Dudley CAlls vat grinted & Covert Seauty Approya

On 26 emo 1959 he run lusued a Covert Security

PREDATE.

CABOr had been approved

for contact une in 1950 mid recolrud a clearence

A contimatton os. tuls arenade 4as

gran sod en 29 Ooteber 1958.

PUT H412200Ae = 116535

WAITIN A. SINCE

SPUTE -

Pegathe

AWAREKES LETE - 1969232

Losa INDIfI sas granted a Corert lecurity Approval on 32 Narch 2953

In arder that ho coul de nado vitting of Agency interest la tha l. De

AUERSON Fundations Is filo catain a sounpoper clippine fron tie

HAGENICE ANAR fOr 3 Daceubor 1963 talon conceros Ida ippodatient an

special consel for a June Otate Court of Inguiry lato the assossination fr

Prusident Bateur He had bahtered proninesoe shen ba mad provooutor

at the hyunbura lar Triala. lo Article also otated that In 1960

NICET nudenfully represented Lynion D. Juso sa a cout challenge

of HE- soniard right to bave dia nute appear on tan general election

bellot In Tenas both in a condidate for Vict Prenidant ad InP Iselection:

to tha l S. Benuter Another Itom Ia U. E. NIMA & HORLD REPOTI fOr 7 JUS

1954 reparted that souston laUer, LOCA MORERE, VO 10 ClOse tO LyRica

somas me badas onatdarad for the job of Attornay Cenarate.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

FRaTui John Tony - 15131

John Henry FRERIAl vos graatad a Covert sucurity Approval ce 28

Ime 195T to permit the villization of bis services under Project ICON

At the tino be ua o partur in the Jarga and leading leu firm od

FULERICAS, CHOOKER, FRESHAN, BATES LId JAWORSKI et Houston, Taxas

md man l frustes of the 1. Da ANDROON Nedioal Fondation

DeBE Daoblell, Ic = 192577 and A540305304

unant Dashista Consiny dre vas epproved for contact unetCAuTIO

on 20 dune 1953 mas ma grantou & Govert Becurity Clemerco on A August 1933 10x

une to the the Bo under Projnct CDrCHAlt, At the tins ha unn President

al suo osl companies ln Eouston, Fexars 011 Produetten Knintence, Inc.

Douglae B. MARSHAL, vas prentad & Covart Becurity Apprevas on 29

Novarber 1958 In order that ho couls be made witting of Aganoy Interest

1n tho coLLy Foundation, MARathE vas Vice President of the Quintona

a a anughtar os augh foy culMia

Ovata Culp Hoasy mus grantud a continuir liaison cluarance on T Agril 2959

when siro sua lirector of the rederal Docurity Agency. A Covert Security

Approval was lasued 10 July 1961 to peruit hor use mdar ProjOGE IFCORSI

Ca 20 Ostober 1965 a Provisional

Becurity Approval vas tranted to parait contast, noneusment und briering of

Mrs. HOEDY ao Pronident of the EvItY Youndation 1a connection with her

posaiblo utiliention on an advinor connitree of a broadcaating retirity,

Univorsity of the Air, Afracted et tha studenta end intalleutuala oi.

Cubro A Covart decurity Appronil vas Iscued 31 Marca 2966 primerilo to une tha

prestige of her pano and pouition as cover for "1/cuba activitrea and 1t!

was not expected thit ira, Mount muld tate ea notive day by day solo in

the sotirittes.

negative

1OX- V11LIom Pattis: I. =5425337 snd 12750724

Ovata culp MoBer's 1o0, HIslien Fattua g03iY, Jre, borz 19 January

1938 at Houston, Texas, mas sesurity approvad for contast une on 23 Nay 1960.

At the tima ha saa. Ansociato Bastor of the HOUSION POSI, Eouston, Texas.

On 29 suna 1902 he vaa granted a Corart Security Morenal to Dormit Na

vitting und under Project CAMACIAI

SECKET

---

## Page 8

HOBBi Soundation. On 22 Detober 1065 & POSA Man lasted tO HORK!

Sarah K. Hall

Attor

DEÓ 67 RAMPARTS

Nono ta 24 Hop 67 (55-533-67

Remo dia 30 Jam f7 to I0/P

HIT 2/26/67

8IX 2/19/57

82003

WS SAC

SECRET

FASTEST

---

