# 104-10315-10067

## Page 1

104-10315-10067

IDE* 12A9, Use Previous Editiona - 300-2

INDEX DO YES ENO

"CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

• * REP TO FILE NO -

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

→(44)"

(REVISED 4-65)

MFG. 1-65

ROUTING

20

SECRET

FROM: UMWAVE

ACTION:

IW

FILE RID O

DESTROY D

RET TO BRANCH O

SIG .

2

3

4

RID COPY (ADVANCE COPY TUBED TO CS/DO AT DIDOZ

6

7

8

B)

INFO:

DeL, D/DCI, EX/DIR,

VR,

FILE.

ADDP, CA 2,

DO CAPERS CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FL, F/O, F/INT 66

CS/DO, .SOD 4, WH/C

Doz: 12, -DOTH 4, CA/O 4, Cl, CI/PS, FI/SPG, RI/AN, WH 8

INDEXED his

МАТСЛЕН

SECRET 2523267

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITI

26 MAR D041Z 66

WAVE 9824°

83

INDEK

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA SOURCE: AMSWIRL-I WHO OBTAINED INFO ON 23 MARCH /

FROM ARTURO COBA WHO MEMBER 25$6 BRIGADE AND CLAIMS CLA MICROFILMED

ASSOCIATION PERUYERO. COBO CLAIMS PERUYERO GAVE INFOR-

APH 2 6 1Y00

MATION TO HIM IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE. RETAIN SOURCE

DOC. MICRO. SER

DESCRIPTION TO PROTECT SOURCE. RID INDEX PERUYERO.

FILED 252326Z

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

DOI: 23 MARCH 1966

SUBJECT: O ALLEGED INFILTRATION INTO CUBA OF A MEMBER OF THE

IW COMMENTI

19-300-2

26 Man 66

WH/C

WH/RFG

RELEASING I WO:

12

8

TDCS DB+315/00946-66

X ROUTINE

T PRIORITY

BASED ON:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

26 MAR 66

0215 Z

SECRET

LIAISON:

SHOUP

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DONORAPING AND

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

UFG 8078

NP CAMSWIRL/1)

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000;

What to nonete

(44)"

1-84 12A-3 Use Previous Editions

INDEX DO YES O NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO-

* REF TO FILE NO

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFJED MESSAGE

SECRET

DESTROY O

SIG -0

2

(REVISED A-65)

WG. 10.

ROUTING**

5

6

7

8

X RID COPY

VR, FILE, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CV/IC 2, Fle FI/D , FI/INT

PAGE 2 IN 83492

FORMER BRIGADE 2506 FOR THE PURPOSE OF ASSASSINATING

FIDEL CASTRO RUZ

ACQ: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (25 MARCH 1966)

_UFG-8078

SOURCE: A MEMBER OF THE ASSOCIATION OF THE VETERANS OF

THE BAY OF PIGS (BRIGADE 2506).

IW COMMENT:

TDCS

I ROUTINE

BASED ON:

PRIORITY

• RELEASING / WO.

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

SECRET

LIAISON:

GROUP!

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND

DECLASEIFICATION

---

## Page 3

13-00000

FORM

10,3s: 3000

SECRET

(When Filled In

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

CUBA

23 MARCH 1966

020)

NO FOREIGN DISSER/CON ROLED DISSEN

• ROUTINE

TDCS DB-315/00946-56

DISTR: 25 MARCH 1966

- SUBJECT

ALLEGED INFILTRATION INTO CUBA OF A MEMBER OF

THE FORMER BRIGADE 2506 FOR THE PURPOSE OF

ASSASSINATING FIDEL CASTRO RUZ

PLACE &

SOURCE

AND

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (25 MARCH 1966)

REF

IN 83492

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-8078

APPRAISAL: A MEMBER OF THE ASSOCIATION OF THE VETERANS OF THE BAY OF PIGS

(BRIGADE 2506)

(201-294249)

1. DURING THE LATTER PART OF MARCH 1966 JUAN JOSE

FIPERUYERO RODRIGUEZ, PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION OF THE

VETERANS OF THE BAY OF PIGS (BRIGADE 2506) SAID THAT THE

ASSOCIATION HAD_ INFILTRATED ONE OF ITS MEMBERS INTO CUBA -

ABOUT THE FIRST PART OF FEERUARY WITH THE MISSION OF

ASSASSINATING FIDEL CASTRO RUZ.

2. THE NAME OF THE INFILTRATED MEMSER IS NOT KNOWN,

THE INFILTREE TOCK WITH HIM A CART SIMILAR TO AN ICE CREAM

CART AND WILL POSE AS A STREET VENDOR OF SOME SORT FOR

PURPOSES OF CARRYING OUT THE ASSASSINATIN.

This atric gic for in tie also seese too Unied States wiin to meaning a the Personals

prohibited by law.

SECRET

Excluded from automat

darnatading and

decia«stficatien

• STATE/INR

DIA

ARMY|ACS! NAVY AIR

CIA/MCC

FBI

SECDEF

NSA - NIC

IENS.

TREASURY "CUSTOMS

OCI ONE OCR

EXO

---

## Page 4

13-00000

NO FUREIGN DISSEM/COROLLED DISSEMIN

NFO 1-68 680)

TDCS DB-

PAGE 2

315/00946-66

SECRET

IN 83492

3. THE ASSASSINATION APREMPT RASHEEEN SCHEDULED

FOR 17 OR 18 APRIL, A DAY ON WHICH FIDEL CASTRO IS

SCHEDULED TO MAKE A SPEECH. (FIELD COMMENT: FIDEL CASTRO

IN THE PAST HAS MADE A SPEECH ON ABOUT THIS DATE TO

COMMEMORATE THE CUBAN VICTORY AT THE BAY OF PIGS. THIS

YEAR WILL HOLD SPECIAL SIGNIFICANCE AS IT IS THE FIFTH

ANNIVERSARY OF THE VICTORY.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR,

MIAMI REPS STATE, I&NS, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, FBI,

USCG.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSER/CONIESLED DISSEM

---

