# 104-10073-10008

## Page 1

104-10073-10008

? ?!

AIDA

TO

WE/C

I

A4BlR

Tasa atans

MAIAN

mis

SCORET

* NHO RLO 0N O7

NOUTING AND REGORD SHE1

RIAN

COMMENTS

20 5 12

bifeiai

сосктутьо. 4н6

ow adelsindtos te

4-86 890-

To voo n n ..

net v

80

LSIUNLE

J BE3

Lalo

NO, CHE

BUBE

1:*

N NICHED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•TO

WE/L

malutes

RADN

mis

I

D)D

84000

680100/260.4446

i rese addenda to

4-88886

COUGETIOCONL

not in

PUNCHED

10 CA

10 Mauto

80C RET

-1680V

---

## Page 3

14-00000

10 MAY

081-26/387

Vons London Bnaland

OF

PAGES :

REFORT

LADE EXE

Loger Tedeworth

TRIENTION BY COPY TO: "

NUMBER OF

ENOLOSURES I

RE PORT

stewart ve tonse

sashington 1

Mox1oo O1ty 1

Havana 1

Regietry

TRIOTATINO SNOTH SSUTION:

REFERENCES

Aaт2 6g

SECRET CONTOOL

8 & OFFICIALS ONLY•

SOUS 069991

09483

0д-19

BEPACOUCTION

IS BEST POTAINABLE

FROM

APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

*.

OULITEY :

GUULLEO

eavegou

DANCA®

eatna sodasy dis tanieo 0887

PNORMATION!"

mid. 49p18

A PolLedso. 00mp00

BunAak

SEGRET CONTIOS

8 0 0moALe CV-

SECRET

ialda-ne

ASPRODUGTION

NEST eETAIAgOLE

Zana Aprana

CART

SIBMITTED

---

## Page 5

14-00000

D.p d

SECRET 25.

20the Ape-11 2960.

gANA 5X192

BOUT ION OINTE

The Open Tabeasy 1n iardo0 S4t%0

Ta tol1o1r8 parsonol are exployed in the Ouban Inbomay in ilandoo Oltyle.

Jose ANando

ORTURO TElL - 10662

messador, | Although it una kown 1-

guodded Dro Salvador WAllPa ho has not you arrival) |& serber of tha

Parsido Bootallata Popular (PoBalo - Ouban Ozemlot Party) almos the e90

a 26, PORTUANDO Valdar bas reoolved Inatrustlans from the Orben

77618

3/494.

(8) DI. Roardo do VIDI Dosirguado Soundollos at the Ordan tabasey aão haa

bean doting as Chargo d'espairos ainue the dopanture of Dro Salvedos

un? He lo a onseer alalont but balma llo andera sica pablo duatio

Lll donate, the 0111l iterana, and Liourenana HooDor CuROrA Vidas, the

M111 tary attache,

(4) DEO ASTONTO R. MONAl Laredo, Socond Dooretaryo d career diguanal, se

1110 DS FiLORIO L VADIl Deningias, la sala ba CrE SEE 12014

131 (scuder) rooter not: versa

201 - 262260/

Bachio.

Fern nit reade

333 880 OSAMANS ASSI

Chen they in senor Ci

Ho dino ca

pensive inner son Atalan

762178/480,964

on PaRdona

(6)

DOUS 80009

Done on doe

Bon 2e

Sa0neto anne 00ws08:8e

REPRODUCTION IS

BEST OBTA

FROM APERTURE GARD

SUBMITTED

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

(7)

72W/9725

20 thoApr11. 1960.

Nonrague, Guatemala ans the Darloan Ropubilo uho aro adion in lodes

and agatnat shoso govermonte the buban siberay la castylng out a

promena of propaganda and subvernion.

→ fit Cuba

PAblo ASUAtIN DAA Locata, GITLl ittaahl, Tho "adronds artoe" or the

Ouban Inbossy, and by for the noot fanatioal and astivo Oeatrodat of 1ta

antiatod by GARDIA Ildal, A froquent travollor botuan leadoo City and

HaVAnA, fUDLilA sOORta 10 dald to ro0o1ro hia ordoro froa radal OLETRO Rus

the Thard Learetary and donaul at tha Russion Eabasay In Leador

DAST AN

Fat 11th GROIA ViAal which le sonetines uned a a Mo

blah ar ment tron duba in the duan diplomatie bage ile cotivities have

attrated tha attention of the ladoon authorities tho are nada to be

oonaldoring the posalbility of apolling both hun and other nesters of

Both tha Ouban and Rusatan tabassios as "personao non Iratao".

• (8)

Inde ALDER'I Douto, Tha Oultural Attache at the luban Inboany who miy

uncorna binsold with him wark and does not allon hirals to becono

Invalvod 1n ary other of the Debosay's notivities.

I sit cuta

(9)

Blarita Tereod

4 Chan ty

masonito, she catered leader la 1991 an a pallalaal peruger ent as eno

ten narted for the lindoan Mislaty of Stuntion an a toachen Ser tany

Joars she as consoted ul es sha loriodento landonna per la pea (26268 a

as logra

(20) 0515015 2p051o liatutalna coltand borera la debor sebally end tartara

ead trado undera 11 loudoo energ ibes he prentes deltedles la enortones

GRADET.

SECRET BRUTENA

EEPAOZUCTION IS BEST dEFAINAN

FOR APARTUAS

GARO

---

## Page 7

14-00000

1/251200

• SECRET

78:44/9725.

20tho Apr11 1960

v1th tho cubon Inbanay a Intontion of fontering nunh actlilty anons all

ilnaffootod groupe In the oountry. Ho oordinaton his wark with that of

Busebio Lous Lopose

(12) Donauolo BIPIRON. :loxdoen ahurthand/ typiat who ban boon aplayed by the

Ouban Inbaaay In ldoo Olty for horo than siftoon your she doom not

tale ary Intoront in pol1 t100.

NiA. 808

(12) Husberto GiRDl

Lanlatant itnoho whe 10 in ohargo or tho lanuo an

ranomal of passporta.

(13) Lus 001ao 1 amaular employoo tho corines linoll dodoly to lia val.

8.01, 188 8..

(14) 5nr1 quo HERRis, Oonaul Gonoral, i sasombat rosarvod in who tendo to

hoop hiroll to haalt una ho done not anore the vios hold by ano

proment Orban doveront.

(15) 445770050

sandaten ittoonds

¡tOr dISTRO OrDO tO pOwEr In JanUns

1959, LOPEZ Do appolntad as a acorot scont of the proodented Balson

guard and Later nado two tripe to: artoo and Dontral unartos vale a saloo

the cuban artle proupe and he boon ordered to plan cute of valemon agatont

thats, Lapts oppeara to do nothing unre shan a hirod curion and do an

anor of a sroup of luban sancatere.

(16) Sellon OIlda MNAl, Tho Nio of the Sooond Doorotary, Dio Lisanto Ro

, DENIGN Larodo, Dollare IONIN Varia In the Oonoula80.

(17) 8añ09ta lasta Lunardo. In an toolatant ituaaho and hodpa Dellarito

Tera FRONTA PrOBa ln hor propaganda vertio

(28) Oardos LIni, destatant do the donsul donamal, do nortor of vessels

On Dude spa, INTuIT don not appear to be in mpathy with tha

ates os the proment Ouban deverante

(19) 00r100 1084 Press ittonble.

(20) RegIo Fla las arly secently artitod la liardoo and say do elsher a

PEROR COTTON IS GAST OBTAINABLa

CORINGA CARD SUBMITTEO

---

