# 104-10179-10005

## Page 1

104-10179-10005

TO

• 024

23 NOV 60

DIRECTOR

HAVANA

CIASSIFIED MESSAGE Ray disier

SEGRET

POUTING

LOw

2

31

Nov 23 0502Z 60

'ACrOits WH 9 (MR PHILLIPS WH DIV NOTIFIED 0015, 23 NOV)

liO , DCI, D/DC1, DO/P, COP, ADDP/A, S/C 2

thesis tit

OPIM DIR INTO OPIM MASH CITE HAVA 6989

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 46546

JMNET

REF A MASH 1761, PARA 2(1N 4/4034)*

B MASH 1725, PARA 2 (IN 164543) **

C

MASH 1778(rr 45795) 149

JULIO MESTRE

MEMBER MDC DIRECTORATE HERE CONTACTED SIA

22 NÖV AND RELATED FOLLS

Ao HE AND

HAD BEEN WORKING PAST

THREE NICHTS AT HOME OF

ON

"OPERATION UNITY"• OBJECTIVE OF OPS IS CREATE DRAMATIC SHOW

HERE WHICH WILL DEMONSTRATE THAT MANOLO RAY IS WRONG WHEN HE

Femal

TELLING CONTACTS IN U.S. THAT HIS GROUP ONLY ONE CAPABLE OT ACTTON

AND WHICH WILL CREATE INCIDENT

HERE DEMANDING COMBINED- FOLLOW

THROUGH BY MRR, AUTENTICOS, MDC, MAR AND OTHERS DUE THEY BILL HAVE

NO OTHER CHOICE THAN FIGHI FOR SURVIVAL®

_SECRET,

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy No.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

390

---

## Page 2

GLASSIFLED MESSAGE

SECRET.

HAVA 6939

Bo OPS INVOLVES

JIN

455÷6

AND SIX EXPLOYEES CUBAN

ELECTRIC COMPANY PROCEEDING TO MAIN CONTROL CENTER CUBAN ELECT

TRIC COMPANY AT TALLAPIEDRA AND BLOWING IT UP WITH PLASTIC

DEMOLITIONS WHICH THEY HAVE OBTAINED TROM AMPAN-LO. RESULTS WILL

BE BLACK OUT OF HAVANA AND SANTA CLARA FOR THREE TO SIX MONTHS:

DEMOLITION VIL BE TIMED FOR 2500 HRS.

23, 24 OR 2S NOVA IMMED

IATELY FOLL DEMOLITION AMPAN-S WILL MEET WITH SABOTAGE REPS

MRR, MDC, AND'AUTENTICOS AND DISTRIBUTE 208 HUNDRED SOMBS WHICK

ARE ON HAND AND WILL SE USED THROUGHOUT HAVANA HITH PRINCIPAL

TARGETS HAVANA PORT AREA AND PSP OFFICES•

WILL ATTEMPT

TO REACH ALMENDARES RIVER WHERE 20 FT BOAT WILL BE WAITING AND

WILL HEAD DUE NORTH FOR KEY WEST•

IS COOPERATING IN OPS AND WILL ESCORT|

TO AIRPORT HERE

AND ACCOMPANY HIM TO MIAMI ON EVE OF THE

OPs.

USING

08

POUCH AND GOOD OFFICES

gLAIMS HAS RECD ASSURANCES FROM

0b

ROMULO BETANCOURT THAT HE WILL SUPPORT ANTI-CASTRO SETOLUTION

ONCE STARTED.

NURT

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFINE IS ARDNIBITED

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFLED MESSAGE

HAVA 6389

06

SEGRETA

06 / IN 16546

PAGES.

REQUESTED VISA ASSIT

AND HER MOTHER

AND SAID OPS CONTINGENT UPON HIS GUARANTEEING

THAT ROAT

HE FLEEING IN WOULD BE MET. L

TOLDL

- 06.

THAT IT IMPOSSIBLE

GUARANTEE BOAT WOULD BE MET AND EFFORT WOULD BE MADE LOOK INTO

VISA ASSIST.

AWARE OF

PAST COOPERATION WITH

COMMIES BUT TRUSTS HER THOROUGHLY, SAYING THAT SHE HAS BEEN

MOST HELPFUL TO MIC FROM HER CURRENT POSITION IN

~ NOTED THAT PLAN APPEARED POORLY COORDINATED

ASSURE FOLLOW UP-TO EVENT IT IT DOES TAKE PLACE AND IT MAY

PRECIPITATE COMPLETE DESTRUCTION OPPOSITION BY A DESPERATE CASTRO.

STATED PLAN HAD-NOT BEEN COORDINATED FRD MIAMI AND

AMPALM-5 INTENTIONALLY LEFT OUT BUT OPS FULLY COORDINATED HERE

_ AMONG FRD SABOTAGE CHIEFS BY AMPAN-S•

3. BRAZ EMB SEC LAGOS ON 22 NOV TOLD EMB POL OFFICER WAYNE

SMITH THAT MANOLO RAY GROUP PLANNING BLOW UP MAIN POVER PLANT OF

CUBAN ELECTRIC AT 2308 HRS 22 NOV. SAID HE HAD PERSONALLY TALKED

WITH THE 6 MEN (NOT IDENTIFIED) WHO WERE TO CARRY OUT THE

• - пр.

SABOTAGE. ON FIRST VISIT TO SMITH LAGOS INDICATED THAT RAY

GROUP HAD EXPECTED RECEIVE CARGO OF EXPLOSIVES ON NIGHT 21 NOV

BUT BOAT DID NOT ARRIVE. INTIMATED THIS MIGHT CAUSE POSTPONEMENT

FOR FEW DAYS. ON LATER VISIT TO SMITH LAGOS SAID POWER PLANT

ALREADY MIME, AND ACTION MOULE SAKE PLACE SU ZA HOW AS SCHEDULES.

ALTHOUGH

DECRIBES THIS AS AN OP TO "SHOW UP" MANOLO RAY

GROUP®

INFO AT HAND AND REFS WOULD INDICATE THIS IS A COORDINATED

EFFORT OF MANY GROUPS INCLUDINGMR.

SEMIE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIDE IS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 4

4-g0001

CLASSIFIED NESSAGE

SEGRET

MAVA 6989

IN

46546 PACE. 4

STA AWARE THAT AMRUNG-! HAD APPOINTED

AMPAN-S AS CHIEF

ACTION AND SAB FOR HAVANA AREA AND HAD PROVIDED HIM

PLASTIC OBTAINED FROM LAS VILLAS AND MULATA OPS• MSG RECD FROM

AMPẶN-1 AFTERNOON 22 NOV CONFIRMS PLAN BLOW UP POWER PLANT,

TRANSFÓRMERS, GAS STAS, AND TRUCKS, ETCO!

ON NIGHT 22 OR 23 NOV.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:* Ray's request for one hundred and fifty lbs of c-3 to be used in

a sabotage effort lo Havana.

* MASH reported that the targets for the effort were the electric

plant and one of the TV stations in Havana.

*** MASH stated that the operation was postponed 48 hours because

of boat repairs.

REPRODUCTION BY OTKER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIDE IS PROHIBITED

---

