104-10186-10256

bbe caeeie ls an

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Ths material ecotaine thformating afecting the Nationa: Defense of the United Staten etthia the meaning of the Leplonage Laws. Tue
18 USC Seca. Tat one 794, the tranzalmion of rereistion of which im any manner to aa Usauihoriees peruse te prohibited by iaw.

SECRET
FORN DISSEM.
county =| Cuba feront NO. CSCI-316/00718-64
SUBJECT Armando (patronymic unknown) — DATE DISTR. 9 September 1964
NO. AGES 3
: REFERENCES
tal 1964
PLACE & Washington, D.C, -
DATE ACQ. September 1964 FIELO REPORT NO.
THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APERAISAL OF COnctEoet 15 TENTATIVE
_ SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality tee
information provided by one source and includes supplemental :
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first
checking with this Agency.

1, Armando (patronymic unknown), pseudonym "Frances,"
works at the Special School of the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) where guerrilla warfare
training is given foreigners; he is in charge of classes in
explosives, Armando is a captain Inthe rebel army. He was
an aide to Raul CASTRO and fought with his group in the
mountains,

2. Source described Armando as a Cuban citizen who was
born about 1929, He is about five feet seven or eight inches tall,
155 pounds, and has a medium build. He has a fair complexion,
black, short, hair, slightly bald in front, small eyes, a hawk +

nose, and a Jar fers, ABRIL aays wears an army

uniform,
$ 8
4 4
: SECRET H
i NO FORN DISSEM i
pate er on HAT ane GT eae Te Teak ae eer ]
REP CINCLANT, CINCSO # T&NS
Toe Fs driboica dicted wy")

—~-~}-iLX-1658
40 PROJ BCT! AMM 1)
+ CSCI-216;00718

Ea

. MADR}
torece
_L_WH/SA 71), WE 12), CI 4, RID 1

FORM NO. 4 ARSOL ATR PREVINCS EDITIONS OAT. 238699


Set*cReET CSCI-318 00718-64
NO FOREIZN DISSEM

-2-

Headquarters Comments

1.

Armando (Hatronymic unknown) is probably identical with Armando
TORRES who is believes to be identical with Armando TORRES Mesones.
The main basis for this assumption iy that a1] have been identified
as aides to Raul CASTRO and it would scem unlikely that he would
have three aides with such similar names. Also, as can be seen by
the following traces, their backgrounds appear to be similar in

most instances. .

A usually reliable source, in a report dated 29 September 1947,
stated that Armando TORRES was a member. of the Federacion Estudiantil

“Universitaria (University Students’ Federation - FEU) of ‘the

National University, Habana, Cuba. He was involved in sending
letters to obtain aid in the campaign against the Trugillo "tyranny."

A fairly reliable source in a report dated 16 April 1948, said that
Armando TORRES was one of the persons personally contacted by :
Vassili BOGATYREV and Ivan MISHINSKY in regard to the establishment

of a Cominform Bureau in Habana. Though TORRES was to work for the
Cominform, it did not, according to course, occessarily mean he

was a Communist.

A fairly reliable source, in a report dated 7 May 1948, identified
Armando TORRES as a Cuban pro-Communist delegate to the Latin
American Youth Congress held in Mexico in late April 1948. He was
an FFU representative to the Congress.

An untested source in a report dated 9 July 1958, said that Armando
TORRES, also referred -to as “Buffalo Bill," claimed he was Cuban
born, but had studdéd in Spain and France.

In a report dated 11 July 1958, an unknown source listed the most
important people surrounding Raul CASTRO. Included was Lt. Armando
TORRE, an aide to CASTRO,.and described as having been born in
Camagucy, studied in Paris, traveled to Spain and called "The
Frenchman." In this same report an untested source said that
Armando TORRE, aka “Buffalo Bill," was born in Habana about 1926,
was five feet six inches tall, 140 pounds, had black hair and an

olive complexion.

Two usually reliable sources, in a report dated 3 and 10 July 1958,
described Armando TORRES, an aide to Raul CASTRO, as a suspected
Communist: who had returned to Cuba from Spain and Hungary ten months
before. TORRES was identified as one of the persons responsible
for the rebel decision to atiduct American citizens in June 1958.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



8.

10.

ll.

12.

DROME EL Recarety vuerorust
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

~3-

A source whose reliability 4s unknown said that Armando TORRES,
born in Camaguey about 1933 and who studied in Paris, tuld him that
he had interviewed the ex-Costa Rican. President, Jose FIGUERES, in
Germany in 1956. That following the Hungarian Revolution he (TORRE)
went to Vienna to aid Hungarian refugees and clandestinely entered
Hungary where he remained for seventcen hours before returning to
Vienna. The report was dated 14 July 1958.

An untested source with excellent contacts in Haitian exile circles,
in a report dated 3 July 1959, stated that Captain Armando TORRES
was the Cuban Military Attache to Haiti.

An-untested source, in a report dated 3 May 1960, said that Armando
TORRE, Cuban Ambassador, arrived in Rome on 10 April 1960, and left
for New York on 26 April 1960 via Pan American Airlines.

The records of this Agency revealed a copy of a passport for
Captain Armando TORRE Mesones, issued in Habana on 6 April 1960,
with the designiation, -Embajador Extroordinario. Also included
was a Cuban Revolutionary identification card for Armando TORREY
y Mesones showing he held the rank of captain in the Direccion
Inteligencia - G-2 and that he was born in Camaxuey, Cuba, on

26 September 1930. TORRES was in Rome on an arms buying mission.

In a report dated 20 April 1962, a fairly reliable source gave the
followang information on Armando TORRES, nickname "El Francis:"

He was born in 1931, is married and has one child. He
and his wife are French Nationals. TORRES is a good friend
of Vilma ESPIN and Raul CASTRO and always lives very close
to the latter, He is five feet ten inches tall, weighs
between 145 and 150 pounds, has greenish brown eyes, black hair,
a thin face and is white. He was in the Siorra Macstra with
Raul CASTRO. TORRES speaks French, English, Italian, German,
Jamaican, Russian, and Portuguese. His speciality is ciphers
and translations and he has been an assessor of all the
departments of G-2. In G-2 he is in charge of training
military attaches. TORRES, who is adventurous and brave, is

100% Communist.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

