# 104-10167-10251

## Page 1

104-10167-10251

51.61

DD/017-1001%.

4060-77

11 NOY 1377

HEHORASDO FOR: Office of the Legislative Crimsél

FIA:

SA/ADDO

FROM:

Raymond A. Karsen

Chief.

Latin America Division

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Allegation by a Senior Cuban Diplomat

Concerning the

"ole of Cuban Exiles

the Assassinaticn.of President Kennedy

LA/C0/259-77 Dated 3 November 1977

1.

Reference is nade to tie referent memorandum khich

reported a staterent made by a senior Cuban diplomat abroad

alleging that "Cuban exiles such as DIA= Lan (Enu) (sic)

and others had been intolied in the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy.

lie have received nothing

further to date to supplement this infornation.

DDO records indicate that Pedro DIAZ Lanz, and

his brother !larces DIAz Lanz,

formerly Chief and Deput)

Chief, respectively, of the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force,

entered the U.S. froa Cura as exiles in nid-1959.

Since

that tine both DIAz Lan: brothers reportedly have been"

closely associated with, and involred in numerous activities

bith, Frank SICRGIS (aka FIORINI). of Watergate, fame.

Al-

though the individual allegedly involved in the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy could be either of the DIAZ Lanz

brothers,

it is noted that the name Pedro DIAZ Lanz had

been

cited in recent nesspaper items in this connection.

Be refer specifically to the New York Daily dens article

of 20 Septesher 1077 entitled "Ex-Spy Says

She Drove to

Dallas With Oswald & Kennedr 'Assassin Squad' " a copy

of which is attached.

The Agency assisted in the evacua

tion of Narcos from Cuha to Miami, and l'edro entered the

U.S. on his obn.

Although both were debriefed ly the

sidered

there is no indication that they were ever con-

Agency assets:

siened

Haywond A. Tarren

Raymond A. Warren

Attachment:

Newspaper Articlo

cc:

I6 Staff

201-259716

01891199988888

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Ont

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CARAT

SUBJECT: Allegation by a Senior Cuban Diplomat

Concerning

the Role

ct Cuban Exiles in

the Assassination of President Kennedy

DDO/LA/CC/C.Hopkins:gm 10 Horember 1977 x1091

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - SA/ADDO

1 • IG Staff

1 - C/LAD

1 - LA/CO

(Originator)

( LA/CO/Meno Chrono)

(201-259120)

(201-259716V

21-5

BASED ON:

22950 (1: 415072), 28 September 1977

RECTOR 103951, 29 September 1977

22974 (15 421984), 1 October 1977

21-5

ZVOR

SECRET

---

## Page 3

• 6e:::

Ex-Spy Says Shu Drie

To Dallas With Ostyaid C

Reunedy Assasan 3 qua."

• IT LAUL SIESKIL

raig that rhe arcorganied Lee liar: er Ginal are

MarCeed &

re Nor. 22, 1993. The Mosse Arassinarions

Carmittee is

ner siorg.

Ene Cli and FB

in and to state.

Orindo Berra and

and try Cubas, i-db.

1025 7r: 1937.

iske

all merix=s

Caration e:

miginally forced by lie CiA in 195% in

regaralies is lie Ba: o!

$3311

Figs isa-

Sistemenis ala reade in Tee

ant to a jedant agent mere seroiz

Fasert

chief coursel

raginalions Caramilies.

l'e

seamed one i ars top in::ligaioss

ali, large Coscribal Creralaa → as

consistie. gi

¿coill 30 an Easto Cabans and imir

Firear

Sr.g

clairad

4.719 40757418

1J FIN Cuban

FOL Cuto

= -E'residen:

- reces it blamad dor

ise. Bay

E3500.

Airited Takiny Part

¿Sturgis adis ed in an iale

Jian ayo that te look

ertiez

9

: Loa 40.

"There are repacts lost

oil "l'a not iariga that persora:

Hull they to: dd kit it they hae

: Escent lo: Osasid.

89h0 8JS

of

milderare

Keene-iy..

non"

Lorer:

ol

tis.

Leat's death.

ine forst

keen on!

# 389

it an opera ios

•liazis Litte llarana s2:

da tro sumEer de ecels fall ol 1351

said she asied Saris who the gua

=3s and he reptied:

. І зʼз оК

539

Bail Oraa!1 la'er

risiend

Carration i9 traisiag eamp in

da Er:riäten Ile nise lione

Lasses

si:d.

W19 al

13:.

reeling le de

Ori:

wha

еґе.і.д.

Cs.

= 23

Former Cle

FISCE E

-Iter circa la cone:

371

t,350

.33

HENA

#05RD ADON

ut

9e:5a

71207

9.28 hert

there

ec:

dant

Brig

racan

Gine: Me.

539 :1:18305 9:9 dop lilas!

o MICRES

---

## Page 4

fary soon "fer the

sures collies sie

Tie:

.int

li:e

anile trip

aided la: they

Ste

5028-3:13

"Tilles 28-1 5097e"-

in tie

Dig:

When tar ceac.on Bailse. ate

They ail crocked into

Cubara didn® cant a corn :=

il:. Lrienz continued.

"so 1 l'em

Bath.

1n Plis, ai the nest day

"And tus dais

later-T 42%

0)0-•a

-lece to Nex-Yor'i

the ragilit

announced that President Kerzedy F=d

been shet in Dalias:"

Intered ci tes

The Deas. Jesterday:

Le

t-id

hagt

ray knewledge. I sere: met Gazili

He. said Le has

Erich

Diuz Lane fer sins

220

LITE

BETE

2: 1ay house one line

there." streis aisy gaid be

Dallas several times

nation, bst te

insisted

there sione and sas not there

22.

time

he said, "I tas. hra!

12

18:29chas

1r.2

NoT.

Sturge rid he bade teen peesticed

aireads

cout de assassiscli:. t

th..

bitterrate Cormitter.

ale

Intelligare Commitle.

Sen.

it?

Mossa sination Comrailice sed ke

You:

fice

President

comes

dielson-Prcreieller's

coremisaior. that levestigator de Cr

"I told them all that I bad

10 do a.1%

Lore

Fis

tris

Later

fie-l

=3

Liz

erza=

=3?:

:r:7

to dirt

lane

date.

recruit

Mata'

1581H

nie 066-14

---

