# 104-10440-10035

## Page 1

1104-10440-100351

SECRET

WAF

SENSITIVA

NG NOTICE

JURCES AND

DD/P 4:2624

sensitive

Dissemi

MENCRANDUL FOR: ME. - L00 Reun

Ano ymon Telaphone Calls te Valled Stetea

Entory la cantorra, Atrile, Relativo te

Plomo orararion of Frooles Kennedy

l. l refer agila to peragroph tuo et your memorantes,

doted 12 Febrasry 1961, relative te deseminatiene do the focret

Sewice made by Cll.

t. En 1 November INs, n recelred frem tie Department

of the Navy - copy of s enble from the Navnl Attsche in waterra,

Apetralla (% 67127, Top foeret, lata, domgraded to Secret),

mponting « telophe coverecion the previono day vita an

anonymons Individoel eto has described himsali sa a Polinh

challow los the boriet enhassy in that cay.

Telo individanl,

while docuosto, several callare of inteligence fterent, touched

on the posability that the Soriet Geverment had financed the

susanomios of Frosidon Kennedy, Rolerence vas made in tale

cablo to the recolp of a vimilar anotymous teleptono call ot

15 Cetober 1962.

*o Opon roceipt of thie cable from Navy alA Coos tha

following action:

2. Cabled to Ca

maundag fall details of the

telephose convaraatios of 21 Moverbos and the call made

on 19 Cetober 1962. l shoald be noted that CIA had net

previouely knows of the 1962 telophone call.

106- 302

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE ENNE "SO ANG

.* .

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

b. The Gla Station lo Sasberre, o 27 Dovember. fralshed

all evalloble Information on the 1962 telephone call, It appeara

that soures on that occsolen stated that "Irn Gurtin Countries"

plansod to pay a bundred thonond dollero for the arsistestion

of Freoldent Kennedy.

c. On 2T Novetber, the

Etion alo farniched

complete detail on the anonymoma telophone call of 23 November 196%.

¿. Cn 39 November, Gus dinseminated this information, so

supplied by ite Coberm Sation, to the White House, Mopartmem

of State, and Federal Durean of Irectigation, with a copy to tha

Secret Serice. A copy of the dissemintian in it» exact text

le attached to this memorandom.

herr arranged for docuselos of the

isha scury corvice. la the ephalen of the

1103

the caller was s crank. In say event, they

were not able to identity may Polies employee of the Soviet Habassy.

tho entomobile deseribed by the caller no the ene he drove, or the

lcense plate samber given by hit.

No further laternaties on this

call has been recelved.

smallable orldence suntd send te shore that

the calle; was some sypa of crank. This conclusion, hovever, camot

be conti renee.

3a Please note that the minre of the information in the

memoranion and ito attachment regaires the use of a senoltivity

lacester.

Richard Hels

Deputy Director for Plane

Attachment

Exclude fren automatic)

licwagrading and.

de des dira

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

ANING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

Distriballen:

* Address

2 • DDP

* C/C1/8I0

f1 • CH/REA/IRHetl

Ortglastes bys C1/204/

SECRET

CROUP 1

Excluded from sutomatie

deungreding and

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

NING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

85091* deted 29 150

nhos 106% Oled es 207 20k

tothe Wate

& Tr

tato y a a en

m in cedie

Mico el the U.3, M

plut to anarsinle the Ite Provident Ke

of the vi

o los Al Alice she For

241

surs that the calles

Ice to to the Pollal

hutter of a Sortet Embasay cur la

vos a poe

1. en 15 Getober 1962 vegeni

03. A000 00

ola a elery about tivo Cortal interines enraying 400 te 500 Sertel

soltero en thats way to Cubs. Que purpore of this treep morement

ho astd, un to empport the dorar of Mientralpple Me added that

the re mao a plos to pay ono bundred Chinarad dollara to Mill President

On 23 Novamher 1963 ropost 195J, tie day alfer the

naonephenlton of Frectdent Bonnedy and ever a year altor the (ret

totophons cel?, a como bellaved to lo tho samo parsos phoned tha

Embanoy gols and spoté to the neutelant Hoval Aliache, Fis entier

referred (o Dis call a year back ane sisted ho bue cald (hal the 158%

had pul op 100,000 dollaro for tho amarnotion el Preatdon Eurreiy.

Ai Gtving what ho elated vere fantber detnite shout the

oresento, tho collor enid bat cout too vuele baloro (which

world have boen la carly November 1963) he wao present whes an

Australtan ma, 35 6s 40 pesco Cla, end Calle was diopatched y

Aho Solote to the Valted Alater sorrying a este shoct 35 to 40

centimelera long, 50 centimetars higt and 0.5 centiactere wite.

The mmo Vacyl Iwe var nscd in some comoction with this man.

Me vas put on a plane in Sydnry and unila the caller drove the two

Soviet escorts tael to Canberra, thele atorturo radlo in te ear

vas golng constantly. A shortwave redto vas golng in the Embassy

SECRET

CROUP 1

Excladed trom automatic

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

4 20904

atha, Coor there indee, one of tarre Sevlala

atly 23 Movember 1963l, a messago elma througa

* As Demolan Vodha and to Konstano present cald;

tat we wont.

stin* about the Series sote

anne and on Sovins mitverlon fe

Intent No monto not ten

My Menelf, and when he donuthed the

enr he ditren (no s invy lins 1991 Balek, Heense plate Mow South Wales

COC 0127) he addad they olton chango plateo, have Afor «eto ta reserve,

and con elas

• In tve so

6.

The cher sc

Mm come vaque linformation shots a womme

Moul Bobody 00 0

works for the Sonate.

eluded ofth the entle prentelag to vette a litter

The coller o

No good Eaglial and be aceant sad valca did

nel elange throughen the conversation, so il was aseumed that he

was not degateing hio voice.

• CPo 0 20

Chos los worn on the euro corder to

calter to bo a crane; They ainto Shut Sortet offlece Di hostralla

do unt use trytiny but Corlet chantierre, (bay horo no recert ni

their adag a Pollah chauffeur. Thoy are contasing their hivestigation.

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded tram automatic

downgrading and

declassilication

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

