# 104-10186-10080

## Page 1

104-10186-10080

NTORMATION REPORT INTORMATION REPORT

•CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This masterin

Sin is ana in the tracalmson or revelation

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT "Vlises 'Delmar" (an alias)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS CI-316/00601-65

9 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 7)

8 July 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE 8.

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD' REPORT NO.

, THiS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION; SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OR COI

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1968.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

by the source and includes supplemental

information fron the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action

on any of the

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

1.

"Ulises Delmar," who also uses the aliás "Ulises," is a

specialist in South American illegal operations in the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (Gcheral Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI). Sometime prior to 1962 he served in Chile, but because

of a personal quarrel with "Juan Carlos," an attache at the

Cuban Embassy in Chile, he had to return to Cuba.

2.

"Ulises Delmar" was born between 1935 and 1940,

He 1s

about five feet ten inches

has a steeder buted. chess all redghs about 145 pounds, and

• :

Headquarters Comment

1.

The repords of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

information on "Ulises Delmar."

5

4

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Grous i

tpanpradona d

STATE

1 DIA

ARMY

REPL CINCLANT

(Note: Fialt distribution infected by '#M.)

I NAVY

CINCSO #

INSA

I&NS

T XXX

OCR

FBI 2

INFORMATION REPORT

SEINFORMATION REPORT

CILIA

CI/R&A

ILX 1835; LX 2352

NO PROJECT (A MUG 1)

CSCT-316/00600-65

MH/SA/R

WISA/CI

10V

LINASH

HOLDLAN

HH/ HAVE

TOTALS WH/SA 8 (1 ), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

LIAISON #

19-5-1

.. THiS

COORDINATING RELEARNE

BLS: LD: sok

CI/R$A

123)

---

