0267-10424

odd

2 detoder 1963

1. A nncting was held with(L=9pfrea 2000 to 7135 hours in Bla car
(parked in Tacuba) on 26 Cctoder,

24 (L-95reported as follows:

ane +, fae A tow days earlier Coty%soLonzs%0, sister-tn-lhw of General

wv yw Lazaro CA WENAs, toldL=-9 with @ groan of disgust that it looks

BV lize DIAZ Crdas has beef chosen as tha PRI presidential candidate,

iH & b, The Ambassador is still vsing the wall safe built into the chimney
of his office (we have photos of this in our files), (L-9 thinks
that the Embessy payrall 1s kept there as the other day when he
walked into tho Anbassador's office he saw the Arbassador shut the
safe door -- Dra. MACHADO wos there, having just returned fran the

+» bank where she withdrew the payroll, 1400 handles the
payroll for the whole Enbassy. MaeGer \pepeoat

onthe bepez
C80 oun fie voaving PCS for Havana on .k Novenber.

(| ent is ype -—— pp D>
UNL aaAyis Leaving quite soca, No replacenant for hin has. arrived.
az

x
on
exEDRUP Lis locking more and more Like a “security type." lie is a
ayeope | eymen ("lleva la batuta alli") and appears to be a convinced
yo Communist. In the old days, before CASTRO, MIRASAL worked for
wi 2

padat
je f.- Dra,*MAGIIDO zecently told(L=9 that UBIA was discourteous to her
: when she first arrired here but that he has softened up @ bit re=
cently and now seens to "accept" her. Ske thinks this may be
because she lost two sons in the evolution (no details piven).
She complained that LLAGOSTERA stil doesn't accept her but JORRDY
seems to be contng around. (This nay by the usual resentment caused
by a female in a resposible executive position).

Entasay staff meetings are held evory Saturday norning from 0900 ca
~~ usually lasting about two hours, They used to be held in the
“theater” out back unter the new construction but are now belag held
in the plassol-in terrace at the rear of the main butlding,

Tes n cs
he Throe Marxist stuiy groupe ane 3 srt up in the Enbassy to
include averyone on the staff, ‘Fl Hoa, hun ge RCA to the
staffers, ia ranrod:iing this _effo: These groups should be
organized within a week, (L-Ddreads the thowht of submitting to
this indoctrination but realizes he must co along with it),

spent

