# 104-10216-10359

## Page 1

104-10216-10359

AmLAsAle

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

28%

ELS SECRET

PERSON LIAT NOTIFIED

• TOTAL COPIES

30

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION

Irre

MADRiD

WOMANCE COPY

UN IT

Wë-8

DISS OTTE

CA - PA

TIME RA-CS

190

MR. FILE, DDI,/OH/SA-8/CI, C=/CtS, FI, SOD-6, 4E/RS, CI/SA

SECRET 2615362

DIR INFO PARI WAVE CITE MADR 3291 •

17 eSp| 2045

KEYWAY PBRUBEN AMLASH AMBANS 1

1 FOLLOWING SUMMARY AMLASH I AND AMBANG I ACTIVITIES MADR AS

DEVELOPED DURING THEIR CONTACIS WITH GUSPORT 1.

A. 13-14 FE3 AMLASH 1 IS MADR. IN CONVERSATION WITH GUSPORT SAID

HE VERY UNHAPPY WITH MEETING WITH AMBIDDY I, THAT LATTER THINKS TOO

MUCH TERMS

SO HIS POLITICAL FUTURE PBRUMEN RATHER THAN HOW GET RID AMIHUG•

AHLASH 1 INDICATED HE DREWN INTO MEETING AMBIDDY 1 BY FRIENDS WHO WERE

PAID TO MAKE ARRANGE LENTS,

BO AMLASH I SAID WANTED SEE AMBANG I WHO ONLY PERSON WITH LARGE

FOLLOWING ACIIVE IN UNDERGROUND IN PBRUMEN.

C.

ANBANG 1 IN MADR IS-21 FEB DURING WHICH TIME TOLD GUSPORT HE

MET WITH ATLASH 1 MONTY HOTEL PARI A TIMES BETWEEN 15-17 FEB. AMANG 1

SAID HE PLANNED COORDINATE HIS ACTIVITIES INSIDE PBRUMEN WITH AMLASH 1

AND PROVIDE AMLASH 1 WITH SOME SUPPORT MATERIAL THROUGH HIS CHANNELS.

AMBANG 1 SAID HE IMPRESSED WITH AMLASH I'S CONTACTS IN AND OUT OF ARMY

AND FEELS MUCH CAN BE ACCOMPLISHED BUT MUST DELAY INTERNAL ACTION

UNTIL AFTER WAVE OF TERRORISM, SABOTAGE AND SUBVERSION WHICH AMBANG I

PLANS UNDERTAKE SOON•

---

## Page 2

ing on

..÷

IN 12049 692

ZO GUSPORI I: SAYS ANSANG E NOW GAGANIZING: TECHNICALLY FOR INTERNAL

SA3 AID HAS MANY: DRAWINGS. OF WEAPONS, SILENCERS, DETONATORS, CLAIMS

SPENT. S8E,987 DEVELOPING NEW WEAPONS FOR SAR AMBANG I SAYS ME WILL

PRODUCE "ACTION" BEFORE. SEEKING ANY: FUFTHER: PUBLICITY.

3• AMLASH I ARRIVED MADR: 20 FEB. IQ TAKE. PLANE: PBRUMEN AND HAD

TEL CON WITH AMBANG I: MADR PRIOR AMBANG L°S. DEPARTURE POPPIE 21 FE3.

SECRET

CFM

---

