# 104-10185-10182

## Page 1

104-10185-10182

DISPATCA

SECRET

MANNE RIA INDETINO

INFO

Chief of Statios, Curse) 15-2

Chief of Station, SAVE

THEY WALPID GEST

¿EA LIVE INDENIAN

Deputy Chief, Mi for Cuba

SUBJECT

operational/TIPIC ANSUG

Cuban General Directorate fer Intelligenco (Dol)

Account of Cuban Forcica Tatulicace

ACTION REQUIRIO - NIRENCES

activities Furnishod by a Dilocted Cuban

"Intelligence Officer

Give coples of It

abroad to Chief o

Amertian Diplerats

ned reports on Cuban Intelligénce activitios

for his ust in discussions with Latin

(614)

ladicated" tuat ho would be. willing

pican diplants, many of whoa ke has bcon associated with

over a portod fiscars, material provided by

her concorning

the activities of the Cuban Intelligeace Service (COS) which.

present threst so the free world in goneral and to latin

America in particular Attached to this dispatch are chree

copies in English and threo copies in Spanlsh or suncary

the information providod by a delected Cuban (neil since Service

he report concerns not alone espiorage activities

of the CUIS direred against latin American countrios bu! also

guerrilla warfare actlvlties sponsored, by the Cistro Gorernent

which are interded to unscat the existing covermems of latin

27

It as suggested that either:

providing the material to the Chief of

Be espisin to him

that the source of the information was responsible for the conduct

of espionage aid suerrilla warfare in El Salvador,

se which

country tho chiet ot

"has a particular intcrest becaise of

his previous serrice.

The

following information also my bo. of

intorest to the Chief of ni

Durin the time that the defected CDS officer

worked as a cantry desk officer for the CUIS, ho took advantago

of every opprtunity to have coffce in the offices of his

colleagues responsiblo for other countrios.

Whea it became

necessary for them to leave their offices he seized the

CROSS REFERENCE 19

In addition he brought wità him a

number of

doc=ents 'from his own files concernila uperations

in El Salvador.

DISPATCH

AND NUMBER

F24104

$ NA: 1955

loN

SECRET

19-8/102.1

- WH/C/SP

WE/S

WH/ESEC

1

- RID/Files

OFFICE

WHI/C/SP

5010

COORDINATIA,

OFFICE STAINUL

DAlE

WH/2

WH/1

MINFI/TC

WH/C/MO

OPTICE SIMONE

DATE

C/VE

(80)

4/pl

53

USE PREVIOUS ED. TA

DISPAICH

---

## Page 2

97008 TrA

D'SPATCI!

SACH ET

b:

Tho information containid in thi docurents

information sccured from him

been esta

Lushed'as accurate by conparing

the date with those whiche

has reccived through other

reliable channels.

The CUiS does not know

the tull extent of the

information provided by the dofector.

has nade

portions of the information

defector avallable to each of tho cointries

affected'and has'encourned cach country to takc appropriate

casures to dolend itsolf against Ciban subversion and

agalnst its own nationals who, in conjunction with the Cibans,

are plotting against It.

It ts the bope, of

That the in fal

Eave Areten diplomatso in the chice on the and sat

Latin American: diplomits to whom the Chief of su

furnish the information will use due care In forwardins lt to

their: own congree.

it Is roped: that the

thet. auer coan alpsoats whit urge their respictive rovern-

ments to act upon the information and that, tralizips the

threat poscd by Cuba, they will take euch

action ag

appropriate in their own

spheros of influrnce to enphasize

the threat that Cuba ropresents to the frec world.

The attached report was pripared with the intention

of having it prosonted in tho Orianization of American, States

but this proposa! -has been abandoned bcause of objectlons

raised by the Government of dixico:

Nonetheless, the sixican

Government did say that it does not oppose bi-latcral discus-

sions between tim

ASiCal each of the countries concerned.

Is surrested that the Station make avallable to

the Chief

copy of the Spanist and one copy of the

English vorsion for his rendy reference:

If he wishes to rake

coples available to a Latin American diplomat for passage to his

own country, Headquarters cicarance should be obtained bel re

copics are

furnished.

This Is because Hoadqunrters is end avoring

to make appropriato

arrangements for passage of the paper through

other channels.

It 1a. belleved, thercfore, that the most

appropriato

usc.of the raterial

would

be

as backaruind for

discussion with individual representatives of latin Ancric.n

countries.

Hevor, there is no objection to its being us'd as

a basis for tueir comments or reports to their own covernn, nts.

Tuadgurters- ts.interested in any connunts that Chiet

Amy make concerntr, the natcrial itself or concernn:

the reaction of those individuals with whom he discuss. s

Distribution:

15-2

cos, Madrtd w/atts

2 - COS, JAVE W/O atts

Attachments: ANNUG reports

g, 530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUEO

PAGE NO

2

---

