roa 10216-10071

e

*

erp

3
if

10 June 1964

ECEORANDUY FOR 703 RICORD
EUESECT +: Tosta of Modified Sights for 7.62 Polgiun (FAL) Rifle

REFERIICE: €emo for Red, dated 23 Xay 64, Bubject FAL Siloncers/
Sights, from C/VE/SA/HOD/PS

1, Oa 2 June 1964, ur, TSD/EB and tho a {

undersicnod went to Isolation t0 test a nodified sight anda |
F

Go

_ telescopic sight developed zor the 7,62 Bslgiun GAL) Riflo in
azcucr to reforonce a). Tne tests were perforuod with tho assistance
of Er, Jana ur,

2. Tho first tosts wore conducted with & Willians Paap sight
modified to fit an alusinun block vhich was mounted in place of the
atandard FAL roar sight. Tao Willians sight kas a largor disneter
poop than the FAL sight and has a widor rango of elovation settings
as well cs nora positive control over both olevation and windage,
Tho vain purpose of the test was to establish ® point of raferonce
on the alusinun block to match the graduations on tho Willians
sight end allow the sight to be sot visually for tho desired range
ence tho woapon was zaroad, : *.

3. Firing commenced from 100 yards at a silhouotte target
Using the hood of a jeep sc = rest, [sth underloaded and full losd
rounds were used, Light rain which cradually incroased in intensity
« during the day served to coxplicate th recedura, The test
{ Fesults et ranges from 25 ycs. ta 130 » using tho Willians

Sight are summarized in Attachzent I. onceedingly erratic results
Were obtained throughout the tests and ona attonpst to duplicate
{the 160 yd. zoro resulted in a different setting later in the day.

.' 4, 4 2X scope of Jaraneso manufactiro equipped with slusinun
mounting rings froct and rozr to f~it¢ tho rear gas port anc roar
sigat mount respectively then tested. The scope was attachad to
the rigle vith difficulty and atteapts to zero it wore frustrated
by the inability to doterzine where the rifle was saooting. The

Eounting woved thile attezpti:; to adjust the olovation knob and it
;} ¥2e dctorsined that the mouat could not bo attached firnly enough
;to dnsure in retaining a proper zero. The test with the scope
Was aborted.

/

?
;



th

S. It is recomended that the scopo and rount bo ciscarded
a3 unfeasiblo, Tho Williams sight is acceptable silthouz; tke
aunber of clicks por rovolution of tho krob should be reducad,

2 Purtbor testing of the uxdorloaded ax=unition should be con-
ducted to cotermino the reasons for the erratic porforcuance.

ce: c/rsp ;
: Sanpafit A Bed
4ttachae: : Vigenlpe, {co Hks)

S| DDP/TSD/EB/DIW/EC



ATTACHMENT I

2 June 12640 Se |
Willinns Poop Sight i

At 25 yés., reduced loads
. . Raise eight 60 clicks from bottom
Match ref, line to 4th line froa top

. Bt 50 yés., reduced loads
- Raise sight 80 clicks froz bottom
Hatch rof, line to Sth line from top

at T3yds., reduced loads i
Raise sight 80 to 110 clicks from bottos
i Anmunition porformance very erratic, wide variance on Bisel ande

/ At 100 yds., reduced loads
Raise sight 220 to 160 clicks
Yet trial, 160 clicks, little variance
Match réf, line to Sth line from top :
2nd trial 3 brs, lator, 120 clicks :
Match ref. line tc 7th line from top Sieerescsecasrenieeemgeseite

At 150 yds., reduced loads .
‘ Raise sight 230 clicks (1 trial) secrets
Match roz, line to 12.5 line from top eaeunuisete

Coula not mount telescopic sight properly. Bogan process of
Shooting in scope, found it moved,

At. 100 yds., full loads
Raise sight € clicks frou bottoa

at 150 yds., £u1l loads
Raise sight 8 clicks from botton,

Intermittant vain throughout tests. a
Cases with reduced loads vero noted to be blackened at neck
after firing. Suspected to be low pressures not causing
sufficient case exnansion to obtain proper seal. Thisan
contribute to erratic perforranco, Recommend gas port be turned
..#e off position to prevent action from opening and allowing
gas leak. Also investigate soft annealing case necks,

