fod t02te0033]

GeaaseneerapasnangeuasssssnsssssaAisssssssneseusnssaqutaensatasatsssnitstso=easesisUneseeeatintaeeeeeesre.e Ott :

* "1967 IG Report"

(Unsanitized).
sipniceneneeee |

CERRET

ON LOAN ONLY

RECEIVED FRON Returned -to

AUN 62 1975 ral
CLA .



: SEC. ;
ie oe reais :

a eee WITELLIGENCE AGENCY: =
oe Wasuincron, D.C. 29505

Mr. Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr.
Chief Counsel .
Senate Select Committee To Sindy Governmental

- Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities
* United States Senate
Washingtoo, D.C.. 20510

_ Dear Fritz:

. Per your telephone’ request, the attached copy of the
Ic Report is transmitted to you on loan for your use during *
a hearing scheduled _ this date.

H We have on been able to locate any memorandum by’
Mi. Helms on his meeting with the Attorney General in 1967. -
= Should one be located, 1 sate forward it immediately. saecies ee

Please call me when you have finished with this material
‘and we will arrange to return it to our office. :

- Sincerely,

Attachment: a/s


CP*PRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCT (
beshaeenonitasheint D.C. 20595 .

ae 28 May 1973

Bae, 7 Chief Counsel pees

: Senate Select Committee To Study Governmental pee is
Operations with Respect to Intélligence pian

United States Senate :

Washington, D.C. 20510

'

Dear Mr. Schwarz:

: It is agreed that a version of the 1967 Inspector General's
‘report is available to you, on a loan basis, for your study cae
fo next week's Committee sessions. EE

; “The report should be stored in the secure areas of the Joint
> Committee for Atomic Energy and is to be compartmented, with
Recess limited to Staff members cleared for hii access.

“ paithfully yours,

“EB. H. Knoche
Assistant to the Director

‘Mr, Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr. : . . oe



Db. Vl Arn Lhe. tt
bt Le, OL



}
i
&
i
{

~ SEDRET-ES ny

23 May 1967 |

. MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Report on Plots to Assassinate Fidel Castro

This report vas prevared at the request of the Director of
Central Intelligence. He acsigned the task to the Inspector
General on 23 March 1967. The report vas delivered to the Director,
Personally, in installments, beginning on 24 April 1967.
Director returned this copy to the Inspector General on 22 May 1967
with instructions that the Inspector General;

Retain it in Personal, EYES OnLy safekeeping

Destroy the one burn copy retained temporarily by the
Inspector General

Destroy all notes and other source materials originated
by those participating in the writing of the report

‘pounce es me, Stayback burn copy, all notes, and ali other derived
Source materials vere destroyed on 23 Hay 1967,

Tais ribbon copy is the only text of the report now in existence,
either in vbole or in part. Its text has been read only by:

Richard Helms, Ditector of Central Intelligence _

J. 8. Earman, Inspector General

K. E. Greer, Inspector (one of the authors) :
- D. Breckinridge, Inspector (one of the authors)

ALL typing of drafts and of fina) text vas done by the authors,
Filed vith the report are:

Office of Security Mle used as source material
a Memoranduss concerning Willian Harvey . ‘s
-v + Certain MONGOOSE papers
: Drew Pearson colums

SECRET=EVES gry

Stet



RY

SEGRET-EVES OMY

Introductory Section

Misceltsneous Schemes Prior to August 1960
Aerosol Attack on Padio Station
i . Contaminated Cigars |
Depilatory ee
The Gambling Syndicate Operation
Phase 1 (August 1960 = May 1961)
(Poase 2 (Late 1961 - June 1963)

aaa
=) the Wiretapping Incident
: C *. The Phyllis McGutze/Attorney ( General Phase (late 1961 - May 192)

The Long Comittee Phase (may — duly 1956) _
" -Sehenes in Early 1963

Skin Diving Suit
Sea Shell

"Project AMASH - Rolando Cubela (March 1961 -

March 1966)

‘1. Discussion of Assassination at High-Level Government Meetings
i Special Group (Augnented) Meeting of 10 August 1962

| Special Group Meeting of 30 July 196

The Rant fications Of the Gambling Syndicate Operation


EORET EYES ONLY

TABLE OF CONIENTS

_ Introduetory Section

Scarcity of documentary evidence . eee eee ee ee eee
eee Relationship of assassination planning to goverment. policy
i Risk of assissination vhen a government is overthrom......
Resort to synecdoche
““""* Published intelligence on the possibility of Castro's demise . .
ff Accuracy of the story Drew Pearson has

wo AMM ED

i Miscellaneous Schemes Prior to August.1960.- 4 eee e ee ees

“Aerosol Attack on Radio Station... se eee eee eee eee
an . Contaminated Cigars .
i Depilatory . 2 ee eee ee eee ee ee eee

GES

Gambling Syndicate - Phase lL... ee eee eee eee reece ee Lh

Genesis of the plot... 1... eee ese eccceceesccee lh

First contact with Maheu 15 :
O'Connell named ac case officers. ee ee ee ee ee eee ee 16 i
_-. First mecting with Roselli 16 + ifs
Briefing of Dulles and Cabell ss... ese ee ee ee cee i
First meeting between Maheu and Giancana 18 :
. True identities of Glancana and Trafficante becowe non ... . 19 }
Role of Trafficante 19
Early planning on the neans of assassination ... ++ 22+ + + 20 :
's vement with lethal cigars : 21 : 4
lpreparation of lethal cigars +» 20 ee eeees se 2b cee iy
Delivery of the cigars to Gunn 22 tHeeetitg wd

Roosevelt learns of the plot». se ee eee eee wees
Possible vays of packaging the potson
Decision to package the poison in pill fom... ...ees
Juan Orta is identified as the syndicate's man in Cuba
Gunn tests the pills on guinea pigs... esse eee eee
Sequence preceding passing the pills to O'Connell F
O'Connell receives the pills and passes them to Roselli . : .
- Harvey is briefed un the operation
: _ Trafficante receives the pills and gives them to Orta... .
ih Identification of Orta
: The Orta channel collapses /-... see eee eee eee
Varona is brought into the operation
Edvard K. Moss... sioretetet ela tetetstotsdetsicde ts
Roselli associates O'Connell with CIA
Funds are approved for passing to Varona «1 2s es eee
Money and lethal pills are passed to Varona . . .
Varona's restaurant contact in Cuba... 2.222 eee eee
Edvards calls off the operation
Disposition of the pills-. 2... ee ee ceed
List of those witting of the operation



Gambling Syndicate - Phase 2... eee eee ee eee

The Wiretapping Inctdent .. . 0. ee eee et ee ee

Why Harvey was briefed on Phasel ss... 2... e see
Harvey, put in charge of the Executive Action Capability

Harvey briefs Helms on the Executive Action Capability... .

QUWIN- planned: assassination of Lumumba :
Approval of Project DRRIFIE se ee eee eee ee eee
Bissell puts Harvey in charge of the Castro cperation

Harvey is told he will head the Cuba task force... tee

Harvey's first reeting with Edvards on the Castro operation

Termination of GWIN. 6. ek eee et ee ee es

Harvey briefs Helms on the Castro operation

Differing views on the turnover to Harvey»... 00. ee

Harvey's first meeting with Roselli in New York City

Roselli and O'ConneD go to Miami... Be ewww

Harvey leaves for Miami with lethal pills
Roseili is already in touch with Verona. 2. eee ee ee
larvey takes over "a going operation”

Changes in gangster personnel participating»... . ee ee

Maceo enters the operation

Harvey supplies veapons and equipment to Varona.... 2.2

Roselli reports that the Pills are in Cuba

Varona sends a three-man team to Cuba. ee ee eee ee

Verona plans to send three militia men to Cuba

Harvey and Rosell! agree to terminate the operation... ..

Rocelli comes to Washington to meet Harvey

Harvey's meeting vith Roselli observed by the FBI... .. .

List of persons witting of this phase of the operation

Giancana suspects Phyllis McGuire and Dan Rowan... 4. .
Glancana asks Maheu to bug Rovan's roon

Likely date of the bugging incident ideeset afc Folger et tae fare" qat maa? a"
Maheu asks Edvard Du Bois to do the job

Du Bois assigns Pallet+i and Harrison to the Job... .. .°e
Wiretap made instead of microphone plant

Balletti is caught and phones Maheu for help, .... 2...
Maheu refers the FSI to CIA

Shef Edvards meets with an FBI representative... 0... .
Edvards intervenes with Sam Papich on Maheu's behalf

Houston intervenes vith the Justice Department... .....
Houston briefs General Carter

Eavards and Houston brief the Attorney Generale... 2...
Edvards sends a merorandum record of the meeting to Kennedy

- Gambling Syndicate - Phase 2 is already under way. 2...

Helms is briefed on the meeting with the Attorney General ;
Edvards warns Harvey to clear with the DI. we ee ee ee

Kennedy's request on 4 March 67 for a copy of the briefing mmo ” 66

61
61



The Wiretapping Incident (continued)

Former Maheu employee called to testity

f The Onassis-Niarchos fight over o11 shipping rights soe

Maheu is hired by Niarchos and is supported by CIA

CIA intervenes cn Niarchos’ behalf... 6. eee ee
The Long Cormittee plans to resurrect the Onassis wiretap
CIA intervenes with the Long Committee on Maheu's behalf.

Maneu appiies pressure on CLA to avoid publicity
Maheu indicates he may brief his attorney... ..

i Schemes in Early 1963... ee eee eee ee eens

i Skin! Diving Gad touts see t gules cyte sere eee
Gift from Donovan to Castro

Fe The sult is bought and made ready... . 0
uectinecticeuitiel The plan is overtakva by events

aa +) List of persons wittings see eee ee ee ee
H ie Booby-trapped ‘Sea Shell

Books on Mollusca are bought... 2 ee ee ae
The plan proves to be impracticable
Names of those vitting.. 2... esse eee

Project AMLASH ~ Rolando Cutela. .. 2... 20 ee

Tubela"s role in the Cuban revolution
Cubela reported disaffected. 2... ee eee ee
Mexico City meeting inconclusive

Cubela and Juan Orta want to exfiltrate (Mar 61).
Cubela asks for meeting in Paris (Aug 61)

Cubela plans to attend Helsinki Youth Festival. . .
Meetings in Helsinki (Aug 62)

Meetings in Stockholm... ... we ee eee ee
Cubela objects to the word “assassinate”

Paris meetings (Aug 62); S/¥.& demolition training.
Meetings 1n Porto Alegre (Sept 63)

meeting with Cubela in Mexico City (Mar 61)

Chicago Sun-Tines story of 16 Aug 63 re Giancana & CIA... .
. Chicago Daily News story of 20 Aug 63 re Giancana & CIA
Helms sends McCone @ copy of the Kennedy briefing memo: andum.
Rumors now connect CIA & gangsters in plot to ki2] Castro
Tre Long Comitice. 66. ee ee eee ee ee ce

Paris meetings (Oct 63); Cubela vents assurance fray U.S.Govt

FitzGerald meets with Cubela in Paris (Oct 63)

Differing versions of what FitzGerald told Cubela ... .. oe

: SECRET-EVES ONLY

i iit chee

ap:



» SEONET-EVES Gs

Project AMIASH - Rolando Cubela (continued)

Cuba cache approved for Cubela. se se ee ee ee ee ee
The Black Leaf 40 scheze. is- discussed a :
Gunn converts a..balipoint pen into a hypodemic syringe...

s, . Sanchez gives to Cubela in Paris vhile Kennedy is shot ~
Cubela asks for high-powered rifle with telescopic sight. . .
Those vitting cf tre Black Lecf 40 epicode :
Cubela cache put down (without rifles) (Mar 64). .......
Cubela requests @ silencer for a FAL rifle
SAS requests TSD to produce FAL silencer on crash basis... .
Second Cubela cache put dow (vith FAL rifles)(June 6%
Artime meets Cubela intermediary, 66 eee eee eee eee
rtine agrees tc meet wiin Cuoela personally :
Sanchez veets Cubela in Paris (Rec 64)... 0. ee ee ee ee

1 Explanation of how Artime and Cubela vere put together

3 Artime and Cubela meet in Madrid (Dec 64)... eee ee ee

Artime egrees to furnish silencer

Artime gives Cubela silencer and other special gear... 24.

103
it -cv.. Second name-line between Cubcla and gambling syndicate operation 104
4 Headquarters terminates all contacts vith Cubela group... .. 104

as Cubele and others arrested; plead guilty (Mar 66) 107° id

The charges. 1 ee ee eee ee et ee ee te eee ee es 108 H
Castro asks for leniency 109 t
Testimony about the silencers... ee. see eee eee ee 109

Cubcla expects to be executed no .
: Cubela sentenced to 25 years' imprisoment. ... ++... 110 ot
iors .-Ko mention made of Cubela's pre-Nov 64 dealings with CIA i ;

: Memo to Secretary of State (Rusk), Subject: CIA Involve
i 7 ‘ ment in Cuban Counter-revolutionary Activities --

Arrest of Rolando CUBELA Secades and 2arnon Tonas

GUIN Diaz,dated 7 March 1966 (added after completion

Of; Penorts icseubsryisssig-aiasiemeiemeit cone mugen 28

ci

secret

ga it



> SEET-EiES ONLY

i ; 25 April 1967

MEMORANDUM

This reconstruction of Agency involvement in Plans to

assassinate Fidel Castro is at best an imperfect history. Because

of the extreme sensitivity of the operations being discusced or

,attenpted, as a matter of principle no official records vere kept Hy

‘of planning, of approvals, or of implementation. The few written
records that do exist are either largely tangential to the main
i ; _ events or vere put on paper from memory years aftervard. William
7 : : Harvey bas retained skeletal notes of his activities during the

years in question, and they are our Lest source of dates. Dr.

Edvard Gunn, of the Office of Medical Services, has a record of

vhom he met and vhen and cryptic references to the subjects discussed.

: pf TSD, has a record of tvo or three dates that are

pertinent. Gunn end| Mere involved in only the technical

aspects of operational planning, and their participations vere short-

lived. Although fragmentary, their records are a@ help in establishing

“critical tine franes. Operational files are useful in same instances,

ies because they give dates of meetings, the substances of vhich may be fee
inferred from collateral information.

For the most part, though, we have had to rely on information

given to us orally by people whose memories are fogged by time.

Their recollections of dates are particularly hazy, and same of them

-1-

- SEORET-EES ONLY

Poems in ea ene RS HIRI:



are no longer able to‘keep the details of one plan Separate from thove

of another. We interviewed everyone vhom ve could. identify as likely

to be knowledgeable, with the exceptions of Mr. Dulles and General

Cabell. A complete list is attached at Tab A. We did not go on

fishing ida cattle among the mere possibles. To have done s0 would

‘have risked making vitting a number of employees who vere previourly

unwitting and, in our estimate, would have added little to the detatis
@vailable fram those directly involved. Reade are inconsistencies
among the various accomts, but most of then can be resolved by

collating the information furnished by all of the identifiable

: : Participants in a perticuler plan and by then checking 1t egainet
G specific dates that can be fixed with fair certainty. ve telieve

| that this reconstruction of vhat happened and of the thinking

“associated vith it ts Peasonably somd. If there are significant

“ annecuractes in the report, they are most likely to oceur in faulty

ordering of the sequence of events. Feople still remember much of

vhat happened, but they can no longer recall precisely vhen.

It became clear very early in our investigation that the vigor

with vhich schemes. were pursued within the Agency to eliminate Castro

Personally varied vith the intensity of the U.S. Goverment's efforts So esas
to overthrow the Castro regime. We can identify five separate phases

in in Agency pcepemtiermaiaiee deren Aisi the transitions from one .

SECRET-EVES Oly


{
i

to another are not always sharply iefined. Each phase is @ reflection

of the then prevailing Goverment attitude toward the Cuban regime.

a. Prior to August 1960: All of the identifiable schenes
prior to about August 1960, with one possible exception, were
aimed only at discrediting Castro personally by influencing
his behaviour or by altering his appearance.

b. August 1960 to April 1961: Tue plots that were hatched
in inte 1960 and early 1951 were aggressively pursued and were

viewed by at least some of the participants as being merely one

aspect of the over-all active effort to overthrow the regine

that culminated in the Bay of Pigs.

c. April 1961 to late 1961: A major scheme that vas

, begun in August 1960 was called off after the Bey of Pigs and

_ remained dormant for several months, as did most other Agency

operational activity related to Cuba.

ad. Jate 1961 to late 1962: That particular scheme vas
reactivated in early 1952 and vas again pushed vigorously in the
era of Project MONGOOSE and in the climate of intense admini-

stration pressure on CIA to do something about Castro and his .

. Cuba.

e. Late 1962 until well into 1953: After the Cuban missile

erisis of October 1962 and the collapse of Project MONGOOSE, the.



aggressive scheme that vas begun in August 1960 .and revived in

April i962 vas finally terminated in early 1963... Two other

“plots were originated in 1963, but both vere impracticable

é
F

and nothing ever came of them.
We cannot overemphasize the extent to vhich recponsible Agency
Kenned;
‘officers felt themselves subject to the/administration's severe

Pressures to do something about Castro and his regime. The fruitless :

“and, in retrospect, often unrealistic plotting should be viewed in

“that light.

Many of those ve interviewed stressed two points that are so

‘obvious that recording them here may be superfluous. We believe,
Ge though, that they are pertinent to the story. Elimination of the
‘dominant figure in a goverment, even vhen loyalties are held to him
personally rather than to the goverment as a body, vill not
necessarily cause the dovnfull of the government. ‘This point was
stressed with respect to Castro and Cuba in an internal CIA draft
Paper of October 1961, which vas initiated in response to General
Maxvell Taylor's desire for a contingency plan. The paper took the

position that the demise of Fidel Castro, from vhatever cause, vould

offer little opportunity for the Liberation of Cubs from Ccammist

x; @pa Soviet Bloc control. The second point, which is more specifically
relevant to our investigation, 1s that bringing about the downfall of

@ govermment necessarily requires the removal of its leaders from



“pants vill resort to asecssination. - Such-resovale_froe-power-ee-the

_ in mind is killing him. Ine situation wherein those speaking may

what they actually meant, they should not be surprised if their oral fe

positions of pover, and there ‘is alvays the rick that the partici-

house_arrest.of-@-Mossadeg or the: fligkt-of -e-Batieta-chould not
caupe_ine-to.cverlock the killings of w-Diem or ofa Trujille by
forces encouraged. but not controlled by- the- U.S. Government.

‘|. There is @ third point, which ws not directly made by any of
those ve intervieved, but vhich emerges clearly from the interviews
end from review of files. The point is thet of frequent resort to
synecdoche--the mention of a part when the whole 1s to be understood,
or vice versa. Thus, we encounter repeated references to phrases such
a5 "disposing of Castro," vhich may be read in the narrov, literal

Bense of assassinating him, when it is iniended that it be read in

the broader, figurative sense of dislodging the Castro regime.
Reversing the coin, ve find people speaking vaguely of "doing sone=
‘thing about, Castro” vhen 1t 18 clear that vhat they have specifically

not have actually meant vat they seemed to say or may not have said ; L,

shorthand is interpreted differently than vas intended.

~ The suggestion was made to us that operations aimed at the

assassination of Castro may have been generated in an atmosphere of

stress in intelligence publications on the possibility of Castrot? 2°



demise and on the reordering of the political structure that would

follow. We reviewed intelligence publications fron 1960 through

1966, including “sional Intelligence Estimates, Special National
Intelligence Estimates, Intelligence Memorandums, and Memorandums

for the Director. The NIE's on "The Situation and Prospects in Cuba”

“for 1960, 1963, and 196% have brief paragraphs on likely successor

}

*t
park
i

i

governnents 1f Castro were to depart the scene. We also find similar
short references in a SNIE of March 1950 and in an Intelligence
Memorandws of May 1965. In each case the treatment is ro more nor
less than one would expect to find in comprehensive round-ups euch
as these. We conclude that there. is no reason to believe that the
operators were unduly influenced by the content of intelligence
publications.

Drev Pearson's column of 7 March 1967 refers to a reported CIA
Plan in 1963 to assassinate Cuba's Fidel Castro. Pearson also has
information, as yet unpublished, to the effect that there vas a
meeting at the State Department at which assassination of Castro
vas discussed and that a team actually landed in Cuba with pills to
be used in an assassination attempt. There is basis in fact for each

of those three reports. .

a. A‘CIA officer passed en assassination weapon to an

Agency Cuban asset at a meeting in Paris on 22 November 1963.

The veapon was a ballpoint pen rigged as a hypodermic syringe.


i : The CIA officer suggested that the Cuban assct load the syringe

<8 Ss so wfth Black Leaf 40. The evidence indicates that ‘the meeting

. was under way at the very mozent President Keanedy was shot.
b. There was a meeting of the Special Group (Auguented)

in Secretary Rusk's conference room on 10 August 1962 at which

Secretary McNamara broached the subject of liquidation of
Cuban leaders. The discucsion resulted in a Project MONGOOSE
action memorandum prepared by Edvard Lansdale. At another
>. Special Group meeting on 31 July 196% there vas discussion of
-@ recently-disseminated Clandestine Services information report
i on a Cuban exile plot to assassinate Castro. CIA had refused
CG . the exile's request for fumds and had no involvement in the plot.
freee “- -* @e CIA twice (first in early 1961 and again in early 1962)
teeta : eupplied lethal pills te U.S. gambling syndicate members vorking
cn dn behalf of CIA on a plot to assassinate Fidel Castro. The 196i

- Plot aborted and the pills were recovered. Those furnished in

: : . April 1962 were passed by the gambling syndicate representative
to @ Cuban exile leader in Florida, vho in turn had them’ sent to

Cuba about May 1982. In June 1962 the exile leader reported that
; @ team of three men had been dispatched to Cuba to recruit for the
operation. If the opportunity presented itseif, the team vould
_. wake an attempt on Castro's life--perhaps using the pills.

-T-



SECRET-EVES ONLY.

Tain report describes these and other episodes in detail; puts them
into perspective; and reveals, Unat while the events described by

Drew. Pearson did occur and are subject to being patched together ~~

as though one complete story, the implication of « direct, causative a aaacree |

relationship among them is unfounded.



Miscellaneous Schemes Prior to August 1960

ie * March to August’ 1960

We find evidence of at least three, and perhaps four, schenes

that were under consideration well before the Bay of Pigs, but ve

“can fix the time frame only speculatively. Those vho have same aie

ynovledge of the episodes guessed at dates ranging from 1959 through :
1962. The March-to-August span ve have fixed may be too narrow, but
it best. fits the limited evidence ve have.

@. None of thoce we interviewed who was first assigned to

the Cuba task force after the Bay of Pigs knows of any of these

schenes.
i . 1... be J.D. Wake) Esterline, vho was head of the Cuba task

force in pre-Bay of Pigs days, is probably the most reliable :

witness on general timing. He may not have been privy to the
precise details of any of the plans, but he seems at least to

“nave known of all of them. He is no longer able to keep tke

@etails of one plan separase from those of another, but each of the

facets he recalis fits somewhere into one of the schemes. Hence,

hh is we conclude that all of these schemes vere under consideration

while Esterline had direct responsibility for Cuba operations.
c. Esterline himself furnishes the best clue as to the

scant aimee

“Sime ANS ALY



pocsible time span. He thinks it unlikely that any planning

of this sort would have progressed to the point of consideration te

of means until after U.S. policy concerning Cuta wus decided

upon about March 1960. By about the end of the third quarter :

eseeeoe _ Of 1960, the total energies of the task force were concentrated bo ay
: on the main-thrust effort, and there would have been no. interest ;

i 4n nor time for pursuing such vills-o'-the-visp as these. : ne

! We are unable to establish even a tentative sequence among the schenes;

2, they may, in fact, bave been under consideration simultaneously. We... «

-

find no evidence that any of these schemes vas approved at any

level higher than division, if that. We think it most likely that
“no higher-level approvals vere sought, because none of the schemes U nan
progressed to the point vhere approval to launch would have been” bor Ped apes

needed. pete

Aerosol Attack on Radio Station

of TSD, remembers discussion of a scheme to

contaminate the air of the radio studio vhere Castro broadcast his

speeches with an aerosol spray of a chemical that produces reactions

| Similar to those of ljsergic acid (ISD). Nothing came of the idea.

lsaid he had discouraged the scheme, because the chemical

:, ould not be relied upon to be effective.

also of TSD,

ees ena ENS



“+ yecalls experimentation with psychic energtzers but cannot relate it”

to Castro asa target. We found no one else vho remembered anything

of this plot, with the possible exception of Jake Esterline vho

may have it confused with other schemes.
Contaminated Cigars

i Jake Esterline claims to have had in his possession in pre-Eay

. of Piga days a box of cigars that had been treated with come sort
of chemical. In our first interview with him, his recollection vas
that. the chemical was intended to produce temporary personality

@isorientation. The thought was to somehow contrive to have Castro -

@moke one before making a speech and then to make a Public spectacle

of himself. Esterline distinctly recalis having had the cigars in
i his personal safe until he left wH/s and that they definitely vere

intended for Castro. He does not remember how they came into his re

possession, but he thinks they must have been prepared ce ae

In @ second interview with Esterline, ve mentioned that ve had learned : il

since first speaking with him of a scheme to cause Castro's beard to

fall out. He then said that his cigars might have been associated

“with that plan. Esterline finally said that, although it vas

evident that he no longer remembered the intended effect of the
cigars, he was positive they were not lethal. The cigars were never



‘the officer, then assigned to WH/CA, vho approached. hin vith the

“but not widely and ae being concerned with killing, not merely with

> Ss OLY

used, according to Ecterline, because WH/% coula not figure oft how

to deliver then without danger of blovback on the Agenc; He says

he destroyed them before leaving WH/% in June 1961.
Sidney Gottlie', of ISD, claims to renember distinctly a plot

involving cigars. To emphasize the clarity of his memory, he named

scheme. Although there may well have been such a plot, the officer

Gottlieb named was then assigned in India and has never vorked in
WH Division nor had anything to do with Cuba operations. Gottlieb : iH

Temembers the scheme ar being one that was talked about frequently ee

influencing behaviour. As far as Gottlieb kmovs, this {dea never

got beyond the talking stage. SD may have gone ahead and prepared

the cigars just in case, but Gottlieb is certain that he did not get
the DD/P's (Richard Bissell) personal approval to release them, as vould

have been done if the operation had gone thet far. We are unable to

_ @iscover vhether Eoterline and Gottlieb are speaking of e single

cigar episode or of tvo unrelated schemes. We found no one else with

. fimm recollections of lethal cigars being considered prior to August
“1960.

Pineda uchie emcee



Deptlatory

recalls a scheme involving thallium salts, a : '
: Hy
chemical used by women as a depilatory--the thought being to destroy }
Castro's image as "The Beari" by causing the beard to fall out.

The cherical may be administered either orally or by absorption |

through the skin. The right. dosage causes depilation; too much i

: produces paralysis. believes that the idea originated in

: connection with a trip Castro was to have made outside of Cuba. ‘The

ay idea-as to dust thallium powder into Castro's shoes vhen they were

{ put out at night to be shined. The scheme progressed as far as

Ci procuring the chemical and testing it on enines[

recollection is that Castro did not wake the intended trip, and

the scheme fell through. remembers consideration

eae | “| being given to use of thallium salts (perhaps against Castro) and

be

something having to co with boots or shoes. \dces not

remenber with vhom he dealt on this plot. We found no one else LE

“with fim Imovledge of it.

TIEVEC AMY
