# 104-10185-10130

## Page 1

104-10185-10130

*NEORMATION RI

INEORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This catArta consaas Information sareine lha Malional Diream de the talled gialos muhla the sensine of sbe laploente lama. Tue

18, UBC SAn NI Ad TPA, ILe ENNANILIA DE TeTPlAtON di MaIl ta daI mAnNor la ais unsulaartens person la pronibited by law.

NO FOREIES DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Polies Guidance Directives for

Cuban Intelligesce

Representatives DAlE DISTR.

C5 -311/01109-64.

3 August 1964

Departnent

(Intelligence) of the

Goreral Dirsetorats of Intelli-

9

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

DATE OF

1964

CS-311/00716-64

INFO.

CS. 311/00863-64

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

Cas 1961

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION. JOURCE GRAVAGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL DE CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A forzer Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Iotelligence Service until April 1964.

Ricadquarters Comment.

The following is a translation of a

document which corsains the General Directorate of Intelligence f

Diroccion Coneral de liteligencia - DOl NA Department

tiroctive for Cuban intelligence representative

i. Nicaragua.

the MA Departient no longer exists as such, having

17t0 two depariments:

Illegal Department (Ilegal)

and the National Liberation Department (Liberacion Nacional - LN).

LINES POS SECTION 1S-A

CUUNTRY :

NICARAGUA

I SPEFATIVE

1. COLUFCTIVE ACTION

2. NATIONAE LIBERATION MOVEMENT

• RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only.

i, Do No: Fieproduce

3. ARNED FORCES

4. TRAINING CANPS AND OPERATIONAL BASES

5. TSE NICARACUAN COMMUNIST PARTY (PARTIDO SOCIALISTA

NICARAGUENSE - PSN).

6. REPRESSIVE SODIES

7. COUNTER-REVOLETIONARY ORGANIZATIONS.

5-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

REPCINCLANE

CINCSO

(Nore: Frald distriberien indicated by "d".)

I NAVY

TANS

| AIA

INSA

INA

FBI 2

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORI

LX-1577

NP

(ANMUG-1)

Far Distribution See difashed Pase

CS-311/01409-64

CI.LS

12 iLOr AFASE. ICSI, ONI

POTALSIE 3. Cl 21,

W1/SA 16

O 23 7 2 3 18). 23 (10) 11 (811 (19)

Sm

5

---

## Page 2

4-00009

Hidgrs Dissem

WH/COPS

KH/PO/B

WH/RO

WH/1

WH/2

WH/3

WH/4

WH/S

WH/6

WH/R

WHI:/SA/EOB

WH/SA/NOB

WH/SẠ/R

WH/SA/Int

WH/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/NS

CI/Staff

CI Liaison •

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

• - AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PMI/I

FE/JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/I

NE/5/P

NE/6/C&I

NE/Intel

NE/CI

WE/1

NE/2

WE/3

WE/4

1

13

5

5

1

30

1

3

1

1

1

4

post pont

1

S-E-C-F-E-T

NO FOREIG! DISSEM.

- 1a -

WE /5

WE/BC

WE/R

SR/CI

SR./RR

SR. O. WH

" te

Field Dissem

WH/METI

WH/MNTY

WH/MRID

WH/SDOM

WH/ SJDR

WH/SJAJ

WH/PIBO

WH/POSS

WH/KNGS

WH/PRIN

WH /GORG

WH/PACY

WH/MANA

WH/SJOS

WH/SALV

WH/TEGU

WH/GUAT

WH/LAPA

WH/BOGO

WH/QUIT

KH/GAYA

WI/LIMA

KH/CARA

WH/BUEN

WH/COBA

WH/MONT

WH/ASUN

WH/ SAGO

WH/RIOD

WH/CURI

WH/ BRIL

WH/SAOP

WH/BHIA

WH/BEHO

WH/LGRE

WH/REÇI

WH/BLEM

WH/SA/HAVE

1

1

1

5

AF/ALGI

AF , ORNA

AF/ RABA

AF/CASB

AF/ACCR

AF, CNRY

AF/BAKO

AF/DARE

EF/VIEN

EE / SBUR

EE/CYRU

1

1

pond mand ond

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

CS-311/01409-64

ЕЕ АГНЕ

EE KAVA

• EE 'SION

EE BERT

EE GNVA

EE. ZURI

EE HAMB

FE 'DJAK

FE. JIEDN

55 SURA 13-3

FE

OKIE

FE SEOU

FE SAIG

FE KOBE

SEICOLA

-22

I- 26

NE/KUWA

NE, KAHI

NE /DACC

NE/LAHO

NE/RAIL

NE

'BAGH

NE-FEIR

NE/DAJA

NE /ALEP

NE/JIDD

NE/DAHA

NE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ALEX

WE/BRUS

115-6

15-1

WE /OTTA

WE /ROJE

WE/MILA

NE/HAGU

WE/LISB

WE/ MADR

5-3

WE/ LOND

NE/PARI

Liaison Dissem

IE

IE

L/A TSE

smo

1

ford foral pond

fred fred fred

---

## Page 3

S-F-C-R-E-I

NO FOREIGS

- 2-

CS-311/01409-64

8. POSITION OF POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION.

9. SOLIDARITI-MITH-CUBA MOVEMENT

10. THE CLUNTRI'S INTERNAL POLITICAL LIFE

11.

RELATIONS NITH THE UNITED STATES.

12. INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARJED FORCES

13.

THE CHURCH

IMPORTANT

14..

FUNCTIONING, CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA CONCERNING MEMBERS

OF THE FOREIGN SERVICE AND THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ACCREDITEL

IN THE COUNTRY.

15. THE PRESS

'NECESSARY

16.

GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURES AND FUSCTIOSING OF ITS ORGANISMS

17. SEARCH FOR COLLABORATORS WHO CAN INFORM ON THE STATUS OF

THE NATIONAL ECONONY

18.

THE BORDER QUESTION

INFORMATION LINES AND ObJECTIVES

COUNTR: : NICARAGUA

1.

INPERATIVE

COLLECTIVE ACTION

a)

Agreements of collective militar. or political aggressior

against.

Cuta in

which Nicaragua participates in regional

organisms

OAS, CDECA.

Participation of the Nicaraguan

Government

in

them, militar: capatilities or aid in any

forn.

b)

Meetings of CDCA.

Agreements reached, Somoza's

participation and role

the CDCA.

) Military maneuvers which take place on Nicaragua

erritor in behalf of Central American armies: th

armies and units which take part in them. Zones where

the maneuvers take place.

d) Coordination agreements anong Central American armies

for

aggression arainst Cuba and against the war of

National Liberation.

Realization of them.

Nate they tera teen Realizetion onerhen steps saken.

• Provocation campaigns which the Somoza government prepare:

imed at showing Cuba intervention in the courtr

internal affairs and attacks of our Revolution against

Nicaragua.

S-E-C-R F-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

---

## Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-3=

CS-311/01409-64

2.

{)

g)

Role and Functions of the Somoza Air Force in the

plans of attacks agairst Cula, and

the units which

have taken part.

Their training, and arms at their

disposal.

Transportation.

Measures taken concerning travel from or to Cuba.

h)

Possibilitles of the breaking of relations with Cuba

by Latin American countries that

maintain relations at

present.

NATIONAL LIBERATION NOVENENT.

a) . Guerrilla

and data concerring them.

covereins theous capabinities. armsaders,

support.

Zones where the: operate.

Relations

among the groups.

Relations with the Leftist

Forces and exile groups.

Position toward the Culan Revolution.'

Permanent contact with guerrilla groups. Activities.

Carlos Fonseca - general data concerning him, his

activities, ard his relationships.

Noel Gierrero - general data concerning him, his

activities, and his relationships.

d)

Movilizacion Repullicana

- composition.

Leaders -

data concerning them.

Strength.

Actual steps toward

insurrection.

Movilizacion Republicana's plans to

influence the elections outcome.

Relations with the

PSN, other leftist forces and bourgeois political parties.

e) Other leftist forces.

Frente Insurreccional Vicaragüense.

Frente Interno de Resistencia.

Movimiento Sandinista

Unido. Leaders. data concerning them.

Activities.

Actual steps toward insurrection.

strensth elations

with Leftist Forces.

Student and Youth Movement.

Centro Universitario de

la Universidad Nacional (C.U.U.N.

- Universit; Center

of National University):

its leaders, data concerning

Strength, activities, relations with other youth

organizations.

Position toward the Cuban Revolution.

Juventud Patriotica Nicaragüense (JPY . Jicaraguan

Patriotic Youth): its leaders, data concerning them.

activities, relations with other youth organizations and retetht

Frente Vacional de Juventudes Zerolucionarias

(FRE. NA. JU. R. - Vational Front of Revolutionary Youths) :

its leaders, data concerning them.

Organizations of which

it is formed. Activities:

leaders and data concerning them.

E) Position of Leftist Forces toward the PSY.

h) Present status, development,

and application of the

unification plans of the Movimiento Liberacion Nacional

(VILN - National Liberation Movement) according to the

election outcome in the application

reements bi ine meeting in Costa be these agreements.

i)

Permanent and periodical contact with Leftist Forces.

Information concerning the reaction of leftist Forces to

political and economic changes which occur in Cuba.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 5

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

CS-311/01409-64

3.

ARMED FORCES

• a) Organization.

Units and capabilitles. Armaments,

transportation, and bases.

Chiefs.

b) Budget of the Armed Forces. Each kranch's budget.

c) Militars

pacts with the U.S. or other countries.

itin or Central America of a clandestine nature

Points agreed to in them.

d)

assigned.

expounded by

the mission.

e)

Units ard effectives of the Armed Forces within the

CDCA.or

available to enter into it. Their chiefs.

is i

.f)

Role of

the Nicaraguan Army in the integration of the

Central American Armed Forces in the CDCA.

Role and

position of Tachito Somoza in it.

Position of the

other armies with respect to the command. Role of

the Yankee mission in its designation.

Military units with anti-guerrilla training.

Effectives, length of anti-gucrrilla training.

Combat readiness.

Armaments and transportation.

Their bases. Unit Chiefs.

h) Other battalions with special training (paratroops,

Rangers, etc.).

transportation.

Their bases,

armaments, and

1) New types

Characteristics and

armaments adopted by the Armed Forces

nuantities. of the material acouired

4. TRAINING CAJPS AND OPERATIONAL, BASES

a) Cuban mercenary training

camps situated in Nicaraguan

territory, determine their existence at the following

Puerto Cabezas, Bluefields,

Rancho "La

Fundidora".

(Corn Island) :

their characteristics.

Number of men trained.

Type and length of training.

Camp leaders.

Countries from which the mercenaries come.

Means of transportation.

Existence of Cuban mercenaries in Somoza's arm; and on

his bases

and barracks.

Their names, ranks, and

responsibilities. Units to which they belong. Positions

they hold

in it.

c)

Location of counter-revolutionary operational bases.

Places where they are, number of men and military

effectives, ships or other types of transportation.

Arms which

they possess.

Aggression plans.

from bases and return to them.

Departure

5.

THE NICARAGUAS COMMUNIST PARTY (PARTIDO SOCIALISTA NICARAGUENSE -

PSN)

Position toward the Il Declaration of Havana.

S-F-C R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 6

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 5=

CS-311 01409-61

b) Position toward Cuban-Soviet relations.

c) Position toward the Cuban line in the natioral and

Intornational political field.

d)

Position in relation to the confliets in the

International Communist Novement:

1. The case of China and the USSR.

*. The case of Albanta and the USSR.

3. In reference to Yugoslavia, China, USSR, and Albania.

4. In reference to Peace.

5. In reference to peaceful co-existence.

e) Internal situation of the party:

I. Leaders (data on them)

2. Activities, strength.

3. Internal dissension.

1) Actual steps of the PSN toward insurrection.

8) Means of fighting which are officially adopted.

h) Relations with other leftist forces:

1. Disagreements.

2. Status of unty. Participation of Its meaters

In other leftist organizations.

1) Position of the Party toward the unification of

the Central American Parties for the purpose of

promoting guerrilla warfare.

j) Needs of the PSN.

k) Labor for Solidarity with Cuba.

1) Means of publicity.

m) Permanent and periodical contact with the pSt.

Relations with bourgeois parties.

o) Attitude of the PSN toward the elections.

p) Attitude of the PS" toward the Central American

guerrilla war.

6. REPRESSIVE BODIES

a) Repressive bodies functioning within the country.

Their

commanders, plans, and objectives.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 7

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CS 311/01409-64

Integration of

6) M1l1tary Intelligence seryde their chiefs and high

same, means of functioning.

officials

Interral organization. Dians and

objectives.

Existing coordination between Somoza's repressive

bodies and those of Central America.

Nicaragur's

representative to them,

plans.

Places where de de carrica oree planado,

Plans

which have been developed by the combined services.

Participation of CIA and other lankce agencies in

the existlig coordination among the repressive bodies

of Central Aucrica.

part.

e) Nationals of the repressive bodies who have been

trained by CIA.

Where they were trained, course

and Instructors.

1) Contact with interpol.

Coordination with it.

Restrictive measures concerning travel to Cuba.

Agents.

7. COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

a) Delegations of the counter-revolutionary organizations,

their leaders.

Their contacts with the Somoza

Government.

Through whon do lley function. Ald which

they receive. Most prominent persons.

b) Contacts between Carlos Prio and the Somoza Government.

d)

zations.

ropaganda campaigns,

propaganda.

Through what means they are carried out.

Their contacts with the owners of these means, radio

stations, printing houses, newspapers.

Means of communication letween organizations established

in Nicaragua and the organizations in Miami,

especially in CRC.

Through whom. they are carried out

and what method they use.

e) Activities of Dr. Francisco Buitrago.

8.

POSITION OF POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION:

=)

Toward the II Declaration of Havana.

c)

With regard

to Cuban-Soviet relations, on questions

affect Cuba and world

peace.

With regard to the

accusations that Cuba is a base

of Communist aggression

against the American continent.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

## Page 8

S-B-C-R-F-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 7

CS-311.01109-64

9.

SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA MOVEMENT

a) To ascertain if it 1s, organized: in what way it

functions, who its leaders are.

To ascertain the possibilities of active sulldarit?

demonstrations which the progressive organizations

have.

10.

THE COUNTRY'S INTERNAL POLITICAL LIFE:

a)

Bourgeois political parties: Partido Lileral

Nacionalista (Nationalist Liberal Party), Partido

Conservador de Nicarngua (zancudos) (Conservative

Party of Nicaragua), Partido Conserrador Tradicionalista

(Traditionalist Conservative Party) (Di. Fernando.

Agüero, relationships with Figueres, Betancourt, and

Muñoz Marin):

Possibilities

of a conservative

insürfectional outbreak.

Partido Liberal Independiente

Social composition 'of

these parties.

(Independent Liberal Party) Leaders and duta concerning

them.

Strengths.

Relationships

with the lankee Emlassy,

with

the Church, and with North American busincsses. Internal

divisions, motives.

Source of their finances.

b)

Youth Organizations.

Juventud Liberal Independente

(Independent Liberal Youth).

Juventud Conservadora

(Conservativo Youth) (Aguerist).

strength.

data concerning them.

Connections with students.

Relations with the political parties.

c)

"Nueva Nicaragua" movement

Other Organizations ,prente de Liberacion Nacional

(New Nicaragua) and

(National Liberation Front). Their leaders and data

on the leaders.

Strength.

Composition.

with other political parties and leftist forces.

11.

RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES

Alliance for Progress. Peace Corps; their activities

and plans.

b)

Relations with accredited U.S. organisms. U.S.

military ald.

c)

d)

e)

Role of the Yankee militars mission. Training

of Nicaraguan military men.

Ald plans for the promotion of tourism and for

road construction.

Actual end pursued, personnel

who work, etc.

The United States Embassy.

Data concerning the

activities

of the Ambassador and

Embassy personnel.

f)

Position toward the Bryan-Chamorro Treaty and

prospects

the construction of a canal.

S-E-C-R-&-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEU

---

## Page 9

J-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

on 88 -

C5-311/01109-61

12.

ARNED FORCES, INTERNAL. SITUATION

a) Data concerning the Militar: commanders and the

activities they carry out.

b) Consptracy groups within the limed forces.

Influence of exiled officers.

c) Date con organs malab, we who are intery attachés

in and from

American countries.

13. THE CHURCH

a) Ecclestastical hierarch!.

b)

Position or relations between foreign and national

clergymen.

Penetration of the Protestant church and relations

with the government and the Catholic Church.

d) Participation of the Church in internal politics.

e)

Laymen organizations of the Church. (Juventud

Obrera Catolica, etc.)

Relations of the Church with U:S. plans. Alliance

for Progress.

Peace Corps.

g) Relations of the Church with the Armed Forces.

1) do luence otes (country educations.

Federaclon

INPORTANT

14.

FUNCTIONING, CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA CONCERNING MEMBERS

OF THE FOREIGN SERVICE AND THE ACCREDITED DIPLOMATIC

CORPS IN THE COUNTRY•

a) UNITED NATIONS.

b) OAS (Organization of American States) and JID (IADB).

c) Functionaries in and from Latiu American countries.

" Her to concerning the eaten, 'aire i go leneso

15. THE PRESS

1) Data on the reporters and the broadcasting organs

existing in Nicaragua.

b) Possibility of utilizing the reporters in the

country as well as abroad for our job.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN.

---

## Page 10

-G-L-N-B-1

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

= 9 .

CS-311/01409-64

16.

17.

18.

NECESSARY

GOVERNVENT STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIUNTNE UC ITS UNWANISAS.

a) Relations between the Presidency and the ministries.

b) Data concerning the persons closest and most

influential to Somoza.

c)

Congress. Most prominent figures.

Relations between

the

government and the U.S. Embassy and cotton

monopolies.

d)

olitical personalities with authority over th

ones of the country, and data on them.

e) Judicial power, personalities. Repressive laws.

Important laws.

SEARCH FOR COLLABORATORS WIIO CAN INFORM ON THE NATIONAL

ECONONIC STATUS.

a) North American businesses Influential in the country's

economy.

New North American Investments in the country.

Industr. and

mining.

c) Trend of unemplojment level.

d) The countr:'s relations with a view to Central

• American economic integration.

e)

Situation of cotton

coffee and cotton:

no one on a lat

and coffee production.

Political and economic effects of low prices:

World Market.

THE BORDER QUESTION

a) The dispute with Honduras over the Segovia zone.

b)

Border situation of Fonseca Baj.

c)

Border problems with Costa Rica.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

...!

:

---

