104-10182-10094)

Cv. assign ‘of niger
: ROUTING ANG elu oHEET

SUBJECT: (Oprono

[Ten 1B" IAL fR] secrer

—

© csct-3/ 773,317
22 October 1962

TO: (OBee designation, room number, ond
‘eilding?

omctns

INITIALS | 10 whom Oro

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

COMMENTS (Number cach comment 10 shew from whom
line eerote colvee otter wach comment)

| enctosuee

Taaqy-. = fear
te

ost ie

RID/F1 1B 4003

‘Pate as 610 ettions® QZ] secret

cry

BeeaRERT BATE a |ocer |

[]conFiventia [_] im CD unctassirieo

Loy

J
ig



\pl

ees /
SPIO ~ iit

‘TO: Director! if
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Special Acent in charge of
Washington Field Office

FROM: Deputy Director, Plans
\
SUBJECT: WERBELL, Mitchell L.

1. Reference is mate to the none check request dated
19 September 1962, subject aa above, whose name you desired
checked against the files of this office for information rela-
tive to Subject's possible involvemest in arms shimmente to

Beuador in 1959. :

2. This office has no specific information vhich vould
indicate that Subject was involved in plans or activities to ship

" arng to Ecuador in 1959.

3- During August and early Septomber 1962 Subject vas in
several Central American countries. His principal activity
appeared to be contacting officials of the Govermente of
Guatemala, Nicaragua, ani £1 Salvacor for the purjose of ob-
taining recojaition of a de facto Cuban Goverment in exile
called the “United Organization ror the Liberation of Cuba.
Information concerning Subject and his recent activities and
aesociates in Control Arerica will be forwarded by another
conporent of this office.

C801 -3/773,317

Enel. 1 name check

RID/CE: JMA/IK/1jy 03

Based On: Information provided by k nasirs | PW /cI

: nets
Ane : &
Senne FILE iN 201-2520"

