RETURNTO Cla

104-10186-10284

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tole esatertal eoataine information ferting the Ketlonel Defense of the United tates within the wieedtig Of the Esplorites Laws, THe
10)UR6. Gece 74 ond 704, the tramemioca or fevalation *f wBICH (a Any manner Yo an wnauiboriere fern Me pronieited by ta

SECRET.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTY Cuba : : REPORT NO, - CS C1#916/00681464
-SuuECT. Oscar GARCIA © ; DATE Osi. * 12 August 1964
NO. PAGES. 2 : i

REFERENCES " "-CS~311/00115=64

oate OF 1964
INFO, i

pace a Washington, D.C. seeeae a ae
_ DATE ACG. August 1964- FIELD REPORT NO. wit
Tald 1b UNEVALUATED (NIORMA}ON, SOURCE SAADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15-TENTAN

SOURCE: A formor Cuban IS officer vho served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964

Headguarte
The folloving report is one of a
information provided by the sour
information from the recerd: of

Comments,

ries containing personality
@oand $1

It 18 requested that the addressces take no action on any
of the tutivid the persunality veports
Vithout frest cheebirg cain & AnUnEy.

1, Oscar GARCIA, pseudenym "Urlando," 15 assigned to the
Departamento Liberacion Kacsour4al (Nattonal Liberation
Department - LN) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate of Intetligence ~ DGI) as a desk officer.
in charge of operations in Costa Rica, Prior to this
assignment, GARCIA was an instructor in secret writing and |
codes ard ciphers in the Department of Technical Operational }
Support (MI) in the DGI. fm approximately February 1964
GARCIA was trareferced from tLe MI Department because of a
dispute with the deyartwen’ chief Guillermo ARASTAGUIA,
pseudonym "Rene. Although it i© act certain, it is *
probable that GARCIA vorked for Lhe Departamento de Seguridad
del Estado (Department of Sate Security - DSE) prior to the
time he hegan working for the DGL.

a

Noa

SECRET Pectin
NO FOREIGN DISSEM state

‘state Tom Tama T nave Tie Tra, TARKXXX Tock, FBI 2
REP _CINCLANT. CINCSO # ENS

“[ittoter tied dinvibution dated by “#)

Gury = LY.
CI7REA NO PROJECT (Aa
d ; re (AMMUG--1) sl
WH/SA/CI RID/AN J CSC1-316/001
Wi/WAVE [4 4 coro marina] wece sl
iain y Wrenn.

veracs WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CX 4, RID t


| aes Metcuunaters Comment.
t

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEX

-2-

a strong build, a svarthy
ini F brown eyes.

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable
“ information on GARCIA.

SECRLTS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

