# 104-10519-10070

## Page 1

104-10519-10070

12%

23 NOV 6U

DIRECTOR

/-AVANA

CLASSINTO MESSAGE

J28Rt1

Wt1 9 (MR PHILLIPS WN DIY NOTIFIES 0015, 23 NOV)

DEi, 8/061, DO/P, COP, ADER/A, S/C 2.

¿FASCO"

NOV 23 6j02z 60

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

iN 46546

OPIM DIR INFO OPIM MASH CITE DAVA 6989

INNET

REF A MASH 1701, PARA a (IN 44034) :

B MASH 1725, PARA & (IN: 44543)

C

MASH 1770 CIN 45795) 0099

MEMBER MDC DIRECTORATE HERE, CONTACTED STA.

22 MOV

ATED FOLLE

A.

HE AND

HAD BEEN WORKING PAST

THREE NIGHTS

AT HOME O1

ON. ,

"OPERATION UNITYO, OBJECTIVE OF OPS IS CREATE DRAMATIC SHOW

HERE WHICH WILL DEMONSTRATE THAT MANOLO RAY IS WRONG WHEN HE

TELLING CONTACTS IN U.SO THAT HIS GROUP ONLY ONE CAPABLE OF ACTION

AND WHICH VILL CREATE INCIDENT HERE DEMANDING COMBINED FOLLOW

THROUCH BY MAR, AUTENTICOS, MDC, MAR AND OTHERS DUE THEY WILL HAVE

NO OTHER CHOICS TUAN FIGHT EOR SURVIVAL.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

HAVA ANNO

3. OPS INVOLVES

AND STE EMPLOICES CUBAN

ELECTRIC COMPANY PROCEEDING TO MAIN CONTROL CENTEN CUBAN ELECT-

TRIC COMPANY AT TALLAPIEDRA AND BLOWING IT UP WITH PLASTIC

DEMOLITIONS WHICH TNEY HAVE DETAINED FROM AMPAN-LE RESULTS WILL

BE, BLACK OUT OF HAVANA AND SANTA CLARA FOR THREE TO SIX MONTHS&

DEMOLITION WIL BE TIMED TOR 2589 HRS 23, 24 OR 2S NOTE IMMEDI

IATELY FOLL DEMOLITION APPAN-S WILL MEET WITH SABOTAGE REPS -

MRR, MDC, AND AUTENTICOS AND DISTRIBUTE 208 HUNDRED BOMBS WHICH

ARE ON HAND AND WILL BE USED THROUGHOUT HAVANA WITH PRINCIPAL

TARGETS HAVANA PORT AREA AND PSP OFFICES.

WILL ATTEMPT

TO REACH ALMENDARES RIVER WHERE 2O FT BOAT HILL BE WAITING AND

WILL HEAD DUE NORTH FOR KEY WEST.

IS COOPERATING IN OPS AND WILL ESCORT MESTEE TO AIRPORT KERE

AND ACCOMPANY HIM TO MIAMI ON EVE OF THE OPS: USING

POUCH AND GOOD OFFICE

PLAINS KAS RECD ASSURANCES FROM

ROMULO BZTANCOURT THAT HE WILL SUPPORT ANTI-SASTRO REVOLTION

ONCE

STASTER

REPROOUETION EN UTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFIGE IS AROHIBITED

...

---

## Page 3

LASS 5153 359:306

SECRET

MATA DiS

19÷45

2.

REQUESTED VISA ISSIT

AND HER MOTHER

AID SAID OPS CONTINCENT UPON HIS. GUARANTEEING

THAT BOAT

HE FLEZING IN WOULD BE MET. ARETZ TOLD

THAT IT IMPOSSIBLE

GUARANTEE BOAT WOULD BE MET AND EFFORT WOULD BE MADE LOOK INTO

VISA ASSIST.

AWARE OFL

PAST COOPERATION BATH

COMMIES BUT TRUSTS FER THOROUGHLY, SAYINS THAT SHE HAS BEIN

MOST HELPFUL TO MOC EROM HER CURRENT POSITION IN MIN OF FOREIGN

RELATIONG. ARETZ NOTEN THAT PLAN APPEARED POORLY COORDINATLD

ASSURE TOELON LA TO EVENT IF IT DOES TAXE PLACE AND IT MAY

PRECIPITATE COMPLETE DESTRUCTION OPPOSITION BY A DESPERATE CASTRO.

STATED PLAN HAD NOT BEEN COORDINATED FRD MIAMI AND

AMPALMES INTENTIONALLY LEFT OUT BUT OPS FULLY COORDINATED HERE

_ AMONG ERD SABOTAGE CHIEFS BY AMPAN-SO

BRAZ EMB SEC LACOS ON 22 NOV TOLD EMS POL OFTICER WAYNE

SMITH THAT MANOLO PAY GROUP PLÄNNING BLOG UP MAIN POWER PLANT 0$

CUBAN ELECTRIC AT 2590 HRS 22 NOV. SAID HE HAD PERSONALLY TALKED

WITH THE 6 MEN (NOT IDENTIFIED) WHO WERE TO CARRY OUT THE

SABOTAGE• ON FIRST VISIT TO SHITY LAGOS INDICATED THAT RAY

GROUP NAD EXPECTED RECEIVE CARGO OF EXPLOSIVES ON NICHT 21 NOV

BUT BOAT DID NOT ARRIVE. INTIMATED THIS MICHT CAUSE POSTPONEMENT

FOR FEW DAYS. OU LATER VISIT TO SMITH LAGOS SAID POVER PLANT

ALREADY MINED AND ACTION WOULD TAÑE PLACE ON 22 NOV AS SCHEDULED.

ALTHOUGH

JDECRIBES THIS AS AN OP TO SHOW UPM MANOLO RAY

GROUP INFO AT HAND AND REFS WOULD INDICATE THIS IS A COORDINATED

EFFORT OF MANY GROUPS INCLUDINGARP.

RESROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUIRE OFFINE IS PRCHIBITED

ritarinda

---

## Page 4

CLA:

1ID MSA

SEGAEL

MANA 6089

46, 46 PAS

STA AWAXE THAT AMFUNC-1 HAD APPOINTED AMPAN-S AS CHIEF

ACTION AND SAB FOR MAVANA AREA AND PAD PROVIDED HIM

PLASTIC OBTAINED FROM LAS VILLAS AND MULATA OPS. MSG RECD FROM

AXPAN-: AFTERNOON 22 NOV CONFIRMS PLAN ELON UP POWER PLANT,:

TSAYSFÖRMERS, CAS STAS, AND TRUCKS, ETC., ON NIGHT 22 OR 23 NOV.

• DO OF MESSACE

C/S COMMENT:" Ray'o request for one hundred and lilty lbe of c-3 to be uned da

a saborago effort la Havana.

* MASH reported that the targeta for the effort were the electrie

sluni and one of the TV stations in Havans

MASH alated that the operation was postponed 48 hours because

of bout repair®.

MeRCISTEN M ONE IN ME SUIT STORE IS PROMISTE

---

