# 104-10106-10223

## Page 1

104-10106-10223

Administralive - Internal Use sily

C6671-1434

3-4-77

LOGC SUBJ:

TRAVEL

28 February 1977

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, SE Division

ATTENTION

:

Division Security Officer

FROM

SE/X/LA

SUBJECT

Appearance As Witness In Behalf of the

United States Government

REFERENCES : A. Memorandum For Chief

From

SE Division,

dated 11 January

1977, Same Subject 63

B. USA v. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al.

- (76-371-CR-CA)

1. As reported in Paragraph 4 of Reference A, the trial

of: Gerald P. Hemming (Reference B) was severed on 10 January

1977. I was informed of the severance during my pre-trial

conference with AUSA Karen Atkinson in Miami, Florida on that

same day.

AUSA Atkinson told me I could return to Washington,

D.C. and she would have the Drug Enforcement Administration

Miami Regional Office inform me if and when the trial was

rescheduled.

SE Division

I orally reported the above ta Mr. Billy Mix,

security Officer, Ms)

Acting Chief

SE/X/LA, and MI. Robert Blandford, CCS, 00S,

upon my return

to Headquarters on 11 January 1977. I also forwarded Reference

A copies to Office of Security, External Activities Branch

and the Office of General Counsel, Mr. Edmund Cohen.

On 28 February 1977 I was contacted by SA Robert

Fredericks of the DEA Miami Regional Office and informed that

the Homning trial was scheduled to begin 2 March 1977.

Frodericks asked me to be on standby to travel to Miami to

appear as a witness on behalf of the United States Government.

SA Fredericks said it was not certain the trial would begin

3/R0

Admiritate - lateral Us Ely

---

## Page 2

Adminisircairo - Inions! lea

on 2 March and he did not know whether I would be needed

as

a witness.

3. I requested that SA Fredericks initiate action to

authorize me to travel to Miami via GTR issued by DEA.

SA Fredericks said he would initiate that action. I am

awaiting further notice from SA Fredericks.

CC- SED, Sccurity Officer

CCS/OCS

OS/EAB

OGC

Admintelalie - Walcal Leo Oaky

---

