# 104-10433-10012

## Page 1

1104-10433-10012

WCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

18 SECRET

C TOP SECRET

332

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

1. Tab

contains KJK 25/

dated 24 May 1768

2. () Previously denied in toto under exemption(s)

() Segregable portions previously released under exemption (5)

Do Located during the UDO appeals revier.

•(.) Referied to DO for revier by

Further description,

identification, conments, andor referrals, etc.

1. I RECOMMEND:

()

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

• of

ADD exemption(s)

(3 DROP exemption (5)

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

ADD exemption (s)

DROP exemption (s)

() Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

Da Deny document in toto under exemption (s) (11115) BLEss

() Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted

under

•of

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information Eron a foreign liaison service

Information

pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Infornation which would/amn identify the source

Information perzaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

LOCatiOns Of CIA overseas installations

LOCAtiON

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee s

File numbers

Pseudonym

116)

Internal

organizational deta

Name

Of FBI

agent,

FBI file

number

Privacy of other individuals

OTHER

0. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO appeal classification revier, this document which was

marked as see

was:

maintained |

classified

to

declassified

desensitized

downgraded to

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012171

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

REPORT COVER

sheet

NO FORETEN •DISSEM

FAOH

REPORT NO.

Chief of Station,

Kingston

HJK - 251

REPORT LOW T!

Martine

DATE OF REPORT

Andrew

MERTON

24 May 1968

I l be ant

7

PROJECT

•ROVING OFFICER

John Re

MEBION

Vu

MEIGS

RUABBE

SOURCE CRYPT

RUABBE

FIELD DISTRIBUTION

-AGENCY

-(London)

DATA

ALL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

GLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 2 ITEM

76

E4Z- IMPORT CLAYER

9530

ES COPY

PROCESSING ACTION

COVER SHEET

MARKEO FOR INDEXING

HANXING 1-7413

OPS DATA. REPORTED SEPARATELY

ES DISSEMINATION

TOCS. DISSEMINATION

EXTRA-AGENCY

19RSP/39 FOR FEME13

12.2. 89

1.72 (3)

LIPiARDI

Lisa man

CS-31/06459-68

24M19Y1968

13-2-517

8783-55

(201

A-66

---

## Page 3

13-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

PAGE 1 OF

PAGES

HAGIGAN INFORMATION HEPO

SD C

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

31. May: 1969

COUNTRY

Jamsica

DOI

April 1968

SUSJECT TARDICA

0 Monthly

Intelligence Report

For April

1968

ACO

SOURCE

FIELD NO.

Jamaica, Kingston 24 May 1958

Avallable is the CIA libismy la s copy of the:

Monthly Raport for April 1963 prepared by the Special

Branch of the Janaioan Security Service.

Heatigate of the report followe:

A.::

Iks Jamaica (Caribbean) Workers Movement

(1): Kennath RONS bas been islormed by Jonny

JANES, Chairman of the CARIBARAN OCTOBER CONGRESS (COC) of

115 huddlaston road, London, d.T, that the cos jo sitaliated

with the bamaign Against Racial Diacrimination (CARD) and

was trydag to make it a inilitant massline one"..

ROws was

asicod to haly by writing articlos lor tho, and to set up a

Solidarity Group 05 anall connittoo to diatribute in the

Caribbest-latla Anerican zagion documente that rould be sent i

to him about rhite fasoist' attacks againat black poople

living and working in Bugland.

Rows was asked to accept

appointiont as an Overseas Editor and/or ropresentative of

CIA and 'PaopIos Voice, a publication of ClAPf and to

send fur pubilcation each month, sa artiole and novs commentary..

ROMs use antod to say how many copios he would require for

sale locally, (Jamsicanseritoo Comments CIA? is. balioved

to be the Caribbosa latin Amorioan Affairs Iublicationa,,

374 Grays Ina Road, Loadon, W.C.1 (of wbick JAllS is chairman),

the publisters of

"Carib' magsaine which is banned in Jamaica.

Bdward o/c Fadie RODNI, a brother of Dr. Walter RODNET, came

to notice la 2964 as e mambor of tho Editorial Board (Assistant

Editor) of the dorit Intin Aneridan Affairs Publicationa.

Ir. RODID lived with him in London IIon 1963-66 and nocompaniod

SEC BE I NO FOREIGN DISSOM

DISTRIBUTION

ES GORY

103-2-5514

193-54

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SE CED I NO WREIGN DISSEN

bim to meetings of various extremiat groupe with wich be

was conneated. " (Flaid Comment:

Dr. Walter Anthony RODNET??

Guranan, employes of the University of the lest Indios in

Kingston, has reported to bave convened i neeting oi lit

studants os campus on 13 February 1963 in connection with

JAMES also Porarded to ROWl & CirculaI

•lotter, addroased to FOWS and the members of the JCIM,

the Chairman, A.D.T. HARI, and Secretary, B.". IBE, of

October Organising Connittee for the WORKING PEOPIB'S PARIT

OF ENGIAND (NPFE), 454 Earlafield Road, Wandaworth, London,

S.W. 18, informion him that on 4 and 5 May a longrese oi

leninist citizaas of England and othar citizens Living,

working and studying in London, would be hold to inauzurate

tha VPIEs and requesting bim to send a delesata from tbe

JOWN and/or a festernal nessage of revolutionary greetings

and solidazity to tha Congress.

In support of this JAuss

inzoIned RONE that the nembers of the WPIB vero the only

white poople tho had quiath but publicly cooperated with

and supported the coc; and they and the AFRO- ASIAN ITERATION

FRONI (NER) (representing the revolutionaries of the national

Liberation novenents vith headquarters in. London) had tested

and proven the WeED menbers to be the onlt gonzine lariat

lorisists 1y Boltain...

ROnt was told that it was vozy

important and of treat uganey to their cause that s message

of solidarity for the Congress should ba sent fron the ICiM.

(Janaice Sarvice Corment:. A message of solidarity has been -

(3) It la said that becaus of his job ROWE

now has no tims to devoto to netings, but he bag been

making a stuar of the Bible in which ha has Lourd certain

passages deslizz with revolution which he believes he cas

use to advantage; and bas concoived the idea of developing

his rev0bhb0nary novenert along religious lines,. as the

Jamaican people are more inolined to support orgasisations

Tith + Teleone 21aTOUI.

Dr, Cheddi JAGAN

Do Chaddi JAGAN arrived la Janaica by air fron

Iondon - via Morteal co Il April.

Ho was 10t met a arrival.

ai Fallinacos AIrport but was drivon to the hone of DI. Clive

IEOMAS by s basonger who arrited on the sano aircraft. His

Eraserre in the island was not generally known anà no jaforma

Cind bad baaz neuerred that any neting or diacuunion took..

DISCO 001 APril DI. THOMAS socompanied bin to the Airport i

and ba 10ft for Curação enroute to Port-01-Spain and Georgetons..

(Hold Connent:: II. CLive TOlaNdS IEONAS, a GuyADati, 1e an

extrene leftlot and & locturer on economice at the University

02 the lost Indies - UHI.

Illagal Denonstration at Iluidas Vala, St.

Catherine

(1) On 9 April a group of citiseas in Iluidaa

Tale staged an illersl narch in compaction

with the

0R DE, HaFtin Iuthor KING.

the police had disticulty in

broaking up the demonatration

and subsequently arrested

two of the leadera,

BASiL JACESON,

a aon of Councillor

Baldwin JACASON,

and. Delroy BaCKARD

(NER), a schoolteachar.

Caarges of brutality have bees made against

the Police, and

ON 20 APFIL JACHSON ANd BECKTORD consulted Dennis DAIT wita

a rior to bringlag au sotion for assault.

They took the

"OrtUaiL tO Al DAIL tO naka amangemento for (socialiats'

turn singoron to visit Muidas Vale at an early date to lecture

---

## Page 5

13-00000

BIC RE I/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

a group of youths there: Cecil ANDERSON of the JOll was also.

invited to viait Iluidas Vale when arrangements for the leatare

were conpleted.... (Jamaica Service Comment: JACKSON, Who

describes binself as a Radio Engineer and SociologionI.

Student, lolt Jamaica in 1959 Ior Ingland and spent four

years thera studying Radio and Television Engireering.

1963 he went to Spair aod during 1963-64 made Frequent visits

to rangiers.: In Jue 1964 be was impriaoned in spain for

Ho was deported to Tangiorg in April 1965,

and eventually repatriatad to Janaica on 22 Jure 1965-

He

declarod to be a stainh supporter of Commurisu and bad

Connaiat literature in his possession.

Hs was at that

time closal associated with a member of tha YOUNG SOCI1II3I

IBASTE (ISE)

who lived at Iluidas Tale!!

D.

The Jansios Counoil for Tunan Rights

(I) Tha

first issue of the Newsletter of the

Janaica Covacil for Human Rights (JCHR) was circulated to

manbers durinz the month.: This is to be 'a quarterly...

pulication.

It was reported that in additton to Dr. M.B.

DOUGIAS and Noel EDWARDS, Mrs. Leon BROWN of the Jamaica

Taachers' Association and Edwin JONES OF THE NEW WORLD

GROUP (IWG) vere coopted to tha Managing Coumittee for

1967/63.

At the time of publication of the Newslatter there

ware only about 90 members, and the total resources of the

Council vera £20-7-3-

Copias. of the. Constitution and a

stetement by the Council on "The Passports Issue" werg

also circulated to members.

(2) On the Subjeot of "Tao Nineton Davia Case?,

it was reported that a spacial sub coumittee has been set up

to investigated the whole question of passports and the

Couroil is investigatlas the possibility of logal setion

to test whether such action by the Goverument amounts to

an intrinzomont of the citizen's Constitttional kighte..

If the Council's largars adviso that it in wortanhila to

institute such proceedings, it will be nocessary to raise

subatantial funds to enable the Council to sponsor thie

0830-

Members havo been asked to give their support.

I. Tho University of the West Indies

(I) "DE CITE THOMAS

The Cuban Conaul was asked by DI. THOMAS

to ascertain wether: Cabe would bo intarasted in attending:

the conteronce schedulod to be held at Mons in lay ta order

that an imvitation could be sent to hialovemuent.

No-reply

had been rocaived by VOLAZQuez who promised to bend a reminder

and lot DI: IHOMAS know as soon as a reply was rocaired.: It

is underatood that the Univerait proposed to invite Dr.

Salvador VIIASECA, the Cuban sabolar.: DI. THOMAS easo

requested copies of thoback issues of the

Tanorans Economica

books waich he bad towd useful in the teaching of economic

problens. (FIeld Comment: This confarence was to be lonova

"The Commonwealth Caribbean: Dimengions of Hemisharica

Development.")

(2) : Iho Guild of Undergraduates

-On 25 April Ralph GONSATES, prO-Commuaiat

Social Scionces atudent fron St. Viacent (Monthly Report for

December 1967, para.. 1066, refera) was

elected President of

the Guild o1 Undergraduatas ior the academic Jear 1968/69.

GONSALVES is also Direator of "Ihe University Student Spsals

(CUSS) "=

Flections.to

fill other unecutive posts in the

Guild wore fixed for 2 May.

(3) Ihe Department o1 Extra-Moral Studies

---

## Page 6

13-00000

S'E CHE T/NO. FOREIGN DISSAM

(a) On 26 April a puollo discussion on

¡Civil libertias in the Caribbeazi was hold at 21 Camp

Road, Kingston, by the Departmeat of Extra-fural Studies

in collaboration rita tha POLITICAL ACADEMY (PA).

Boy

JOHNSTON, Prosidont of the lA, presided. ibout thirty

five porsons atlaadod.

Edwin JONES, &

representatite of

the NOW WORLD GROUP (DWG) on the JAMAICAN COUNCII FOR

RUMAN RIGHIS (CHa), Ied the diacussion.

The other speaker

was-Walter RODMIT= Both speakers referred to the "suppression

of divil liberties" by politiciana in the Caribbean Islanda

and partioularly in Jamaica.. DI. RODNEY spoke of the

suppression of the black people by the rites and urged the

black people to organise and light against this.

The

tina had come la said, for black pooplo to rule Only by

force oould the black peode of the Caribbean Islanda Iree

chonselves, only la Cuba were civil libe ties enjoyed by

tho poophe. Es recomended that the citizens of Jamaica

should be armed and trained and taught to deland civil

liberties.

Hd condamed "Polico brutality". He oriticized

the seizzze passports by the Government and in conclusion

said that he would not be surprised 11 the Government placad

restrictions on him lo- hia opas critician of its polioies.

(b) Among the who took part in tha

opal discussica wers DI- MOJABAZAII, DI. M. B. DOUGIS"

Richard JACOBS, FraNt GORDON and Winston DAVIS. ALI

condamned. "Police brutality"and the solaore of paasports...

DAVIS sail: that Janaicans should resist Police brutality.

He said that the Goremment permitted publle protont. agsinat

descrimination and approasion in foreign countries"

*bat

denied the right of Janalena to protest against injuatice

in their owa countrr..

subversive Iterature

: (1) Dariog the month mi a total of 577 copiea

07 Chinese Literature: arived in the Island and eight copies

were seired.

(2) One hundrod copies of Iafornation Bulletin

Iron Czechoslovakia were also seized.

G=

Cuben Activitias

(1) ArrivAl. 01 Cuban Refugees

: On 1 April sit about 0900 boars; a Cuban

Fishing boat grived at Negril Beach, Hanover with 24 Eubans

na Board.

They bad left la Sanja de Monte Jordo; yesi Plays:

Ins Coloradas, Buba on 6 April.

Iverty three were lafugees,

IncuRios tou familias

Tao operator of the boat; Sergi

BABU PALACIO, who alleged that be was forced to make the trip.

was handed over to the Cubas Consul.:" Iba refugees have aaked :

for political asylu perding admission to the United States of

Anaries

(2) Arrival o1 Cuban Iug Boat

-(a). Tao Buban Tug Boat, NATACHA, arrived in

Kingston toon Cube on 13 April and departed Pron Montego Bay

The puross of the visit was to transport to Cuba

boata brought toJamaica. used by Cuban refugoes. Ihe three i

suda boats tere taked away:

• Sergio BASO PALACIO returned to

Oub: 2board the NAPAORA.

I'ho Cuban Consul, Armando VEIAZQU2Z.;

visited the boat after its arrival in Kingaton and was also.

prasest at Montego Bay when it departed.

(3) Cubar Diplonats - Manuel ZECISVARRIA SANCIEZ

Caban Courier, arrived in Janalea

on 17 April Iron Mezico and

wasted on 24 april for Merizo en coute to Cuba,

He was net

Jeon ofd by YSIAZQUe2,

---

## Page 7

13-00000

(4) Robert Illit viaited the, Conswiate during the month.

(Jamaios. Service Comment: It has, been reliably seported thett

Mrs. Stephen HILl (nother of Robert ITIU, of Celebrity Concerta.

is meking arrangementa for the National Ballat of Cuba to perform

in Jamaice.: The Cubas Conoul participated in the disoussiona

attendant on thise arrangements.)

(5) IINANCH - During the moath an anount of 1625 was

received from Cuba through Barclays Bani foI the Cuban Consulate:

I'ho sun of £333-6.8 waa credited to-the Consulate's Material.

Account st the loyal Bank of Canada dnd 2291, 13.4 to tha

Special Account.

(Janaican Service Comment:

has now been established nonthly by the Ministry of Axtemal

Arlairs in Havana through Barclays Bark.)

RASTAPARIAN Astivity

Farold LAVINCE o/c Duckie, selt-styled leader

Öf the Rastafarians in Savane-la-Hat, and George HYERS were

the spastera at a nesting organized recently by the Anglican

Hrotborhood of sts Andrew In Savanna-le Har, to wich seven

Rastafamens were invited to sive a brief history of their

doottine.! Inwience maid that they were deapised and rejected in

by the Goverment and the publio because of the doctring of peace

and lore which they preached, but Babylon - the Western World -

would soon fall by violonce and they woold then establiah

God's Righteoua Virgdon: MYERS called lor tolerance: and

reapece for the Rastafarian doctrine.: Hs referred to the

Injustioes being nted out to the brether - oppression by

the coverment, brutality by the folice and rejection bi

society - hich bad raulted in thebrethem developing, a violent

attitude. In thair sarch bi confort.and liberation they

bad turned to Faile 3BIASSIB...:

He asked the Church, the o

Goveruent and the biblio to bols by providing work bi then:

New Creation Peacemakers Tabaraale (Hornerly Atrioan

Reform Chürch) "

(1) Contact with loft Wiag

(a) On 31 March, Walter RODNET, accompanted by

bis wilo and children, went to Kemys Fill, Clarendon, whore

he hold a private discission with Claudius HENRI, Edna HENRI,

Rupert AENER and Kennath MORGAN. RODNAY stated that his

involvement with the for-Creation Peacenakera Tabernsele

(NErr) depended on the continued expansion of the novent

anditire training of roug ma in revolutionary matboda.

He referred to the worsening economic situation in Jamaica

which be doclared, vaula drive the masses to rebellion,

the extent of which would be determined by the pirective

BEN LOZALE had net Peter PARBRA, formerly Of Inor Priatory,

who was a trotskyist. He olained that he hinsalt was a

InterpationaL Revolution.

ready for a revolution and it the pressure is kept up and

the messes trained, in dus course, Cagitalism coula be overthrown:

(b) It was the opinion of HENRy and his supporters

that tith the number of able-bodied men in the organisation,

-a cucessful revolution could be planed minst the Governent

With this in niad, HENRI is now plauring

to lsuncs an aotive campaigo througrout the Ialand and to

recruit as nany young nen as possible into the movanent.

(c) MORGAN suggested that as many NOrI

de possible should be enlisted into the Arny and the Polica

Parce as tasy would obtain wortarhile training and valuable

incoration.

Be spoke of the noed ior literaturg and said

ca Johr MAr2a015, who is employed at the Cuban Consulate,

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

workina for an international orginisation with the intention

of establishing a revolutionary movenest in Janisa and that

he bad seen the potential for a revolution in the NCPI.: He

also thinks- that RODNaY favours the Chinese Cuban fori of

Rupert AWES is & member of a

(2). ICPR

a(a) 75 Waltham Park Road.

"Durias themonth

weekly nestings vere hold by the NCPT

at 75 Walthan Park

Road.

Rudolph GORDON and Roy CREI were the chief speakars.

Reforgncos were made to tharesent assassination of Martin

Iuther KING and a warzing issued that the Frime Minister

should be careful as he might be the next one to be shot.

(Membars were encouraged to join a "partaer" of ten shiplings

weaklz as this would assist in the running of the churca).

GORDON

stated that HENRY was gathering soldiers to "fight

the war":

He spoke of the inoreasad tares leviod on the.

poor people phila cortain Civil Servants had bees given trage

Increases snd lembers of Parliament providad with antertairrant

allowances.

He rafered to the bardsnipa endured by Cubana:

2ndo- BAIISIA and praised Fidel CASTRO LOI what ke yas doing

for his countIN.

Thoses who were leaving Cuba ho accusad of

havinz a "colonial" mentality.

(3) Aotávities in Clarendon

in lempe HilI vere the three day calebration and Baption

troN 30 March to I April when Aval and about 7a othere were

baptized, (thus brirging the total suber baptised to about.

839) 2nd the fiction in honour of HeNRIta 65th birthday on

28 April:

The day'e celebration commenced at about 11.00 am

vith a pasudo roligious service conduated by HENRI, folloved

by a mich past by the Boys Brigade and the crowning of

FENRI by Onroy BROWN. The crown carried a black star which

BROWN Baid symbalized the BLACK, POWBR MOVKMONT (3PM) of waloà

Haint is the leader, and that he would reiga forever.

In his address, ATIll said that it was Black Fover that would

dalend the Blsak man's rights in Jamalos so they should :

sUppOrt TINKY. Ha was then presented with several envelopes

containing nonor.: At the ragular meeting FUNRI continued i

to declare his intention to"take over" the Governent by 1972

and asked bis mombers to be loyal to bin as very soon tbey.

would be callod upos to defend the lause.. There was no.

turing back, for his work and sorth bad gained' the recognitions

of the Soeislists in Jamàice and he would establish his.

"31000 in Jamaica for the Gorer-sent believe that they ars

night".

in a Socialian one and

his (HENRI'S) Kingdom will be like it

He was no longer interested in the

Beck-to-prica Movement as he and his followers must enjoy

the amenities la Janaica.

He said that he had been sent to

deliver the poor people fron their sufferings and like CASIO,

his rond, he vas deterined to deatroy the minh uen in

Jamaica.

Despite tha effort of the Goverament, HiNkY declared,

Janoica would very abortly embrace

stop

this.

and nothing could

AHWEE stated that HENRY intended to establion a

Socialist Goveronent in Jamaica which would l00k alter tho

valtara of those who have bean rejected by the Capitaliat

Government.

He emphasised that all the loading countries

in the world vers Sooialist controlled.

The 1022 Bakery

raported to be doing a flouriahing businea,

and menbars foal

tais the dolivery or bread thrughout tha islaad will offer

raderful opportunity to spored the doctrine to

the peopie

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SE C BE I /NO FORBIGN DISSEN

with whom thoy come in contact and to organise groupe.

With

this in mind, they have been asked to subacribe towards the

purchase of vans for this purpose.

(4)

norr sotivities were also noted during the

monta at freen Botton ia Clarendon, in Braes Ritorand Middle

Quarters in St. Elizabeth, and 1n Iort Moreat and Cambridge

Fill In St. Thomae. Thosa activities included meetings,

recruiting drives,

distribution o literature and, baptiona

in the NOPI.

World Federation Incorportted - About

30 persons attended a nedting of the Ethiopian World

Faderation Incorporkted (AWFI) which was hold at la Corona

Ilal], 71 North Street, or 18 April.: Haughton BROWN stated

tho fundraising drive would continue in the Corporate

Area in an effort to Inerease the anount of £700 already

collocted to send a delegation to Africa. He saja that the

Federation had been granted pernission to stage a marob in

Kingston on 21 April,: This would terminate at ln torona

Hall sibers a concert sould be bold as part of the coloration

#o marie the 237à AbniTergary of latle SalASSIS'S reiga.

Etblopias Orthodox Charch (DOC)

Ions Road recently, and attended by about 25 persons,

(2) At a meating of the log bold at at see

Monroe SCARlAr, the tast speaker, laid that the Hovement

was on the verge of aollapsing because members of the Cult

were not fin anough: with the Govormant about the question

o2 repatriation

marches in an olfort to force the Goverment to send them

back to dirica, and be urgad then to enulate the aneriona

Negroos who were fighting for their freedom.

SCARtarT said that Dr. Hi. B. Douglas had bean

asked by some Rastafariane to become the head of the organisation

and he was willing to assist them with their plans.

I. Universal Negro Improvement Association (INIA)

(1) Copies of a leafiet lanued by the (UNIA) vero

found at the intersection of Hanover/Iar Streets, Kingsta

recentlY.

Ihe address of its office (49 Fast Queen Street)

is that os chriatopher HAVRENCE'& JAMAICA CONGRESS OF LABOUR

It is not yet knows what; if any, connection existe

between the two organisations:

M.

Nation of Istan (NOI)

(1) 341 Church Street - Members of the WIISON Paotion

above address.

Iwo meetings were bold at 811 Church Street

denoused Christiarity as taught by the white man and

encouragod the audience to aocept the doctrine of Islan a3

taught by ALijob MOHAMMAD wio had been "called" to redeen

the back race.

(2) 47 Charles Street

(a) Duriris the möuth four meetings were bala.

Or 3 ApPi? IerOT HATLES, the boxer, said that he

was impressed

with the doctrine and

had witten to Flijah MOHAMED askend

tos a scholandio to onsbla bim to study in one of tas Islan

Waiversisies ia tha USA.

Errol LOVI said that only a revoi

w1oa could ond the white man's prectice of robbingtae blade

Purple of everytaing:

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRE I/NO FORSIGN DISASH

(5) At the meting on 24 April,: Cocail CAMPERII

o/o Prince Bustes stated that prenises 47 Charlea Street

celonges to him and ho vas villing for it to be:used

for the assistance of the black race. He called for arity

anohy block people and said that his organisation waa Lizatini

to rule üsmaice.... He told nembers that they should be prepared

to meet the Bey. SEBRRIET! I who would soon be visiting the

Island.

(Fiold Comment: CAMPBEll has spoken over Kingston

brosdoasting statina Radio Jansioa and Radiffusion • BJR.

Revarend SHURRIFIE I 1s probably the Arabio organisational

sace fOr Thomas VIEN, an Americar Black Muslin Who together

with one Robert FRATIER recantly visited CAMPBELL. FRAZIER

and VIEN wore solsed in. early lay by thejamaican police in

a raidos CArPESIL's home whioh also notted & quantity of

Black Muslim Ilterature.)

No Jamaion Congress of labour

(1) Christopher IAWRENCH and W.A.. FUSBT of the Frintere

and Allied Workers Association (PAWA) recently hold disoussiong

conceming the axpansica of the PAWi, and affiliate of the

(Janalea Service Connent:: PUSAT 13 amployed by the

lives Iristory, but la rederstood that pamphlats put out by

to PANA ar produced at the office of tha Lingston and 3t-

(2) IAVINCE WaS alaO in contaot with CalvE DUCaTI,

WIlZian CHARIUS and BOY PETTBARK, and & joist letter by the

ICT and the JAMAICA COUNTIL OF CONSUHERSE UNION (JCCU) :.

protesting againat the arrival of the Jamalos Provader"

whiok it olatnod, roald deprive Jamaloans of work as the chis

was equipped vith mechapical loaders, was sent to the Frine

Miniater-

(3) (Fiold Conment: The JOI recently olaimed

crodit for the first mass mion sotrity ever bold in Janaloo,

e meetlag in commanoration of DIs Martin Iuther Klagi in

IsnUary 1963 IATRINCE was repoited to have been in close

contaot vith InITI and Janet MeHURRAI, Canadias Connuiete

visiting Jamalca to asanss the political situation.)

0.

Black Power Movement. (BPM)

(1) Dorias the month, several discussions vero bold

at 4 Cookhorn Inse concomtas the BPM.

(2) :

On the 5 aad 8 April diseuasions wers held

by George VASSal on the possibility of holding demonstrationa

at the American Babassy to protest agalaat the

asesssination

of DI, Martin Inther KING. VASSEL elained that there vas a

United States oitinen biding in Jamaica to escape the draft who

had in his possosaion recording of speeches nade by the late

Malcoln X during 1964-

Ibe Ballot &

of Bullata". He stated that kING's death disproved his theory

0f nor-violence and was bringins.to promirenco nen Like

StORaLy CARMICHASL and H. Rap BRUWN.

"The denonstration

sugseated by vassil did not in the event take place.

(3)

About 40 pergors including Winaton MONROE,

Josoph CHRISTI, ROY JATYRSY, Leonard SOLOMON and one ly

SURYAD,

the American reraried to above, met at 29 Fourth

Street,

Ironch Iowa (Dallas Corder, where SURVAD, identifiod

as 4 31ack Muslin aud a member of the BPM, answered questiona

Jut to him by the gathering.

It was understood that SURVAD

as in jamaica to

so solloit support for the a2d in the USA

1s tell us to establiah a branch hore.

the record

Sailot so Bullats" was played by JUlIAD and recorded by MoNRoe.

As this nooting SURYAD said that ho had come

to thories

cecause of 1te multi-racial population and bocause it

---

## Page 11

13-00000

373599

SE CRE I DO FORDIGN DISSEM

was likely that the ciril Righta boys would bave to comer

bore during the sumner wasn they made things "hot" and

were buated by the Authorities.

During a private discussion with SURVAD at

Hernan BXNG's home in Penbroke Hall, George MYRS suggested

that the rocording of "The Ballot or Bulleta" should be....

circulated looally and that Frince Buater should bo asked to

assist, with a vier to salas being pronoted close to thia

year's

Independance Celebrations.

SURVAD accepted MYERS' invitation to attend

= gat-together wbich ha was arranging in Savanna-la-Mar on

I1 HaJ+

and to spend a weak or two with him there.

discussed the Congress on Racial Equality (CORE) and the

3EM1,

and it was suggested that a local Steering Committee

shauld be appointed to consider the fornation ol a group

in. Janalca.

(7) | MIERS said that everything ahould be done

to establish the Movenant on a firmfooting.. In the absence

•i a Eavolutionary Movenent, the "Ravolutionaries" abould

acquaint themselves of the vorld situation. Fo recommended

tho Importation of revolutionary literatura fron 311 avail-

Close contact should be mintained

with

the NEW WORLD GROUP (NUE), and

with the labour movement,

HENRY'S NCIT and any other organisation with a genuine nass

appeal.

He pointed out that the duty of the revolutionIy

was to coordinate and direct the action of the masses: during

a revolution:: He prediated econonio chaos remilting from

the present world monetary orisis..

(8). (Fiold Connent:

The Jamaican police eventually

that DAVIS was waated in the USA for armed

and turnad him over to American authorities on

25 May 368.

Field Dissem:

State, CINCSO

2 7 2/10

FORDION DESCEM

103-2-5/4:

---

