# 104-10418-10267

## Page 1

104-10418-10267

• UACLASSIFIEO

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

4s, vaseri

COME ANTIAL O

SECRET

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

C/EUR/Netherlands

4B2629

2.".

cord.

3.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

1653

OFFICER'S

INTALS

NO.

-2066

DATE

1 March 1968

COMMENTS (Numbar eoch comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column ofter each comment.)

MICROFILMED

JUN 3

2. 124

1968

DOC. MICRO. SER.

6.

8.

RID/AN

RiD/ EDIC

80.

RIO/eS

82.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE IRONOUS

EDITIONS

6-2 please classify

+ 801-155-221

and index name of Jokes

Garrison, New Orles

District Attorne

FI

PROT

ABSTRACT

INDEX M

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

201-155221

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

:*.n44-5

-...

=x-2066

1 March 1968

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT:

O Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination:

Interview of Garrison on Duten TV by

Williams In Oltaaas 8208-1552238

MICROFILMED

1968

DOC. MICRO. SER

REFERENCES: A. Johad State-USIA sable, HCM 553,

HAGUE - 3981, E4 Eabreasy 1958

B. The Bague 38102 20 590070

28 February 1968

Osc: District ATtorNey

LOUISANA

New OrlEANS

SUMMARY

JAmEs

Summary

of traces

Carrison appeared on Dutch TV an 22 February 1969. He

continued o In fact, escalated . his afack upon CA In a persuasive

performance. There is a possibility ol a follow-up program in

Holland and replays alsewhere in Enrope. Garrison's interviewer.

Wullam Olenans 183 Duck proCommunist, although he pretende

not to be, aad a homosesual who seems to be or to have been intimate

with es- President Sukazno of ladonesia.

Consideration is being given to forwarding to the Station as

11, Too lages ovest derognory iniornados about Garrison lion the l. 5.

press and TY/ rade laterviews for release to da assets there.

DETALLS

1. References state that on 22 February 1968 Garrison

appessed on Dutch TV (Dutca Television Foundation, NTS) during

prime time for one hour (ime nos stated). Neither reference esplaine

whether Carrison travelled to The Hague or whether the show was

taped in the U.S. and sent on tape to Holland. The Dutch desk belleves

that the latter 1s isue.

Exact lnt?et"...

CS COPY

201-1555221

---

## Page 3

13-00000

2. The following were Garrison's charges:

Remedy was murdered because he favored

detente detrimental to the intereste of the "militaryo

industrial complex".

b. Kemedy mao the victim di a ClA plot. ClA

has mado cormon cause with the military industrial

establishoeat because of s vested interest in maintalaing

the cold var.

C. CIA is formitted to the land bar in Assa.

whereas one of President Kennedy's last ordero directed

• reduction as boope there.

A U.S. president who bolngs tha U.S.. to the

Brents oi peace will suites Kennedy's fase:

@; Assad why the program had been desigaad for

& European audience, Garrison said that the growing

Induence of CIA on U.S. media had made it Impossiblo for

blo to be beara is his ous country.

3: Referance A says Carriaos, Calm and compased. 373a-

mificiently credible to elicit rather favorable reviews from generally

well intormed Dutch dewspapers.

"Several Dusch viewera also

commested on the crediblity Los his person and presentation.

Ritaly that tha NYS will dry to sall dis program to ober Europeas

1. RoisonEs E says thai the Dutch press was generally favorable

and that many comments noted he seemod logical and in consol of his

facts.

The majority apinlos among Embasay, USIS, and ClA persomel

at The Hague l that he deemad credible to & large proportion of the

Dutch newers. SYAPATHVER lI leels that the program created as

allotime low he the U.S. image la the Netherlands,

Dutch TY alluded

to a third pars of to latervier, saul to come.

5. Carrioon was laterwiewed by Willlam I. Oltans. A

synopsis regarding Olimate followa:

2

15.1

---

## Page 4

13-00000

not = an

• !.

a: DPOB 10 June 1925 Hulzen, The Netherlands.

b. Studied at Yale 1950 but expelled for unstated

misbehavior.

C. Thereafter worked briefly as correspondent

for U.P, and for Dutch paper De Jelegraal but diamissed

by both for unstated cause.

d. An FBl report of 1960 states that he calla

me and Co contes de pressa the viewe "ot a

/@.) An I&NS report of 1961 lints his addres for

1956-1981 an 118-09 83rd Ave., Kew Gardens, Long Ioland,

New Fork

"P. A CA report of 1961 Hate him as a UN

correspondent then planning an unsponsored trip to East

Cerary, Poland, Grechoslovatis, and Hungary. Dutch

correspondent. said that they had yet to see a story written

by hin. When he applied for membership in the UN

correspondents association, he was unable to produce a

sing e clipping is support of the application. He travels

extenalvely., He han excellent contacte in all Commonist

countries inclading Cuba.

8. The Haaque Post of 15 April 1951, with a

natlonwide readership, characterized Oltmans as an

Intlate frlend of the then President of Indonesia, Sukarno.

and as baring trled for five years to arrange contacte

for Sukamo la Holland.

b, An F'BI report of 24 November 1961 restates

the above and adds that be had been separated or divorced

from his American wife 13 months earlier because "he la

not a man". He was living with a male at the tire of the

report..

1. An FBI report of 1 February 1962 Includes an

interview with the ex-wife Frteda Bleling (she had remarried).

3

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

r.i".e..

-2066

She said that her ex-husband and Presideat Sukarno

were close friends and that he wrote to Sukarno at

least once a weak throughout their marriage. Around

1958 she and Oltmans lived at the Paramount Hotel,

Now fork, for a time. The Indonesias government

pald theis bill, which was more than $300. She met

Susarno through her husband so May 1959 is Copenhagen.

4è the time of the introduction Sukarno cleared tbe

Ioom of all advisors and bodyguards, then said to her,

"So you are Frieda.

Well, fam Sudls." He told her

"that he loaked forward to seceiving his weekly messages

from her husband and that he always read them just

before he went to sleep while he was in bed." She said

that les minutes after her wedding ceremony with

auld, learaed that Oltmans had a police secord fos

molesting young boys la Amsterdant She obtained a

Mexican divorce in 1960. She said that Oltmans is at

Boast intallectually & Commusist and belleres Communam

to be

the economic system of the future.

1 HAGU-1565, 24 October 1966, saya Oltmans

Wore pro Lumumaba articles la 1960, siaited Cuba is 1962

and perhaps 1963, developed idlendly relations with.

Chicoras at The Rague and may have visited China In 1964.

In Angust 1966 he applled for a Chicon visa at The Hague.

I AM FBI repOrt o 1Z May 1807 says that Olinans

claimed to have arittes for Ramparts an article about CiA

In ladonesia. No such article has been found.

6. Reference B sequested backgrouad infosmation abour

Garsison's mental health and pesformance as = public oificial.

A

summary of derogatory information from orert lS. media for the

past year (March 1967 80 March 1963) has been complled in response.

A decision will soon be made as to whether part or all of this material

may be sent to she Station for use by

---

## Page 6

13-00000

1EX2966

Distribution:

Orig - DCi

1

- DDP, ADDP

I - A/DCI

1 - Eur/Netherlande

1 : Office of General Counsel

1 - Office of Security

1 - C/Ci, DC/GI

1' • R&A chrono

1 = De reports flle

5

GEORET

501-1552271

---

