# 104-10300-10140

## Page 1

1104-10300-70740)

б.

ÖPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

= 5010-106

UNITED STATES GOV-eNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Files

Lone 1

DATE: 5 December 1963

FROM : Chief, Research Branch/OS/SRS

SUBJECT:

PAINE, Ruth

nee:

HYDE

aka: Mrs. Michael PAINE

1. Mr. Cregar, FBI, on 4 December 1963 confirmed that the Subject

is the daughter of William Avery HYDE, SSD-157435. Cregar was furnished

a copy of two 1957 investigative reports on William HYDE for lead purposes

only and was informed that William HYDE was under consideration for a

covert use by this Agency in Viet Nam in 1957 hut was not. used. (This

information had previously been obtained from

CI/SIG).

2. Subject

is the individual who is taking care of the widow of

Lee Harvey Oswald and has apparently been quite well known to the widow

of Lee Harvey Oswald and possibly Lee Harvey Oswald for an undetermined

period of time.

The possibility that William Avery HYDE was the father

of Ruth PAId was previously brought to the attention of viaquang

through or

To Necis CI/SIG. The Security File of Willian HYDE contains

a copy o1

& 1956 FBI Investigative Report (SECURITY OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES)

on Sylvia Ludlow HOKE, aka: Mrs. John I. HOKE, nee: Sylvia Iudlow HYDE, who

is the sister of Ruth PAINE. The file of William HYDE also contains a 1956

Ost report on Sylvia HoKE.

3. In addition to the above, it was previously known that William

Avery HYDE and wife Carol HYDE were associates in the late 1920's and

Later of toe Baccha

229931,

who is currently employed by this

Agency in FoD.

• A certain amount of information concerning William HYDE,

Carol HYDE, and other associates of HYDE and Buntil during the latter

1920's was furnished by felor briny during interviews several years

ago.

At that time the Bimmit case

was under extensive investigation.

Document Number

1261-1032

for FOlA Review on

FEB 1977

Solie

BLS: rjd

38CTCT)

decarrading and

Ecclassification

---

