# 104-10192-10113

## Page 1

104-10192-10113

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduca

043

1aa8

MISED d-4S

CLASSIFY TO PULLNO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTNG

$

• 24

SECRET

PILE ROO

BIT TO BRANT O

DEstROY D

SIG -

3

ACTION

1w

I RID COPY

IND

VR, FILE. ADDP.

CA?, CA/PEG,

CA/PROP, :C.OPS,

CI/IC 20

flo

1/D RINT RINT6

DCI, D/DCI, DOP, 500 4, CAVO 4, C/PS, RI: 4V, WM 8, WH/C 12, CS/RF.

SECRET 2819582

DIR INTO LANT IPÁCY BARR CITE WAVE 4416

CAN NC65- 492 11 28969

ther

INTEL TYPIC

SER.

1

SUPDATA: AMOT-245 ORALLY AT 230S TO

HOURS LOCAL 27 JULY

RIO PLS INDEX. FILEO 2819582

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSO: NO FORCION DISSEM

4

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUZU: INABILITY OF THE MDC TO EFFECT A SALO CN THE DISTILLERY AT

SANTA CRUZ DEL NORTE, HAVAÑA PEOVINCE

DOl :

F7 AND 28 JULY 1965

PADAS

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (27 AND 25 JULY 1905)

0FG-7411

SCURCE.:

A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUSAN ESPERES TRAINED IN THE ELEMENTS

I COMMENT.

51:71)

319 - 6-95/4

18

WH/S

12

14- 30c -10.

TOCS D8-315/02539-65

XX ROUTINE

; FRIORITY

BASED ON:

UFG-7411

NP/AM0T/2+5

RELEASING I WO SAM DULLE

E: JEM. DELANEY

DATE DISTRISUTED:

28 .JULY 220: Z 65

LIAISON: ::

6849548

HICLUDED THON AUTOMATI

SECRET

DECLASS'"ICAPION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUENG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

1/pV

---

## Page 2

12A-J Use Prevlous Editions

INDEX O YES: O NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO M

I REF TO FILE NO -

FROM

ACTION

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FILE RID O

DESTROY D

RET TO BRANCH O

$10

(46)

(REVISED A-GS)

MIG 1-65

ROUIING

: 5

6

XI RID COPY

VR,

FILE. ADOP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, C/OPS, QI/IC 2, Fl. FI/D .. FI/INT

FAGE 2 IN: 20069

•OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THIS GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS

SINCE MID-1961. THIS INFORMATION WAS OGTAINED FROM AN INDIVIDUAL

WHO WAS INFORMED OF THE PLANS OF THE ATTACK AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT

FAILURE BY A MEMBER OF THE RAIDING FARTY.

IN COMMENT.

TDCS

TROUTINE

SASED ON:

PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

RELEASING I. WO.

SECRET

REPROL : TON BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE

LIAISO!!:

ESCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIE

DONNA

A DING AND

CATION

PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 3

14-00000

BE&88+89

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTALA CUSA

DATE OF 27-25 MLY 1965

INFO.

BA EARLIEN DISSEN SENIROLLEO OISSEM

•ROUTINE

CENTRAL INTELLIOENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TDCS DB-315/02538-65

DISTR

28 JULY 1965

- SUBJECT

ABILLTY OF THE MOC TO EFFEGIA BALL ON THE DISTILLER

I SANTA CRUZ DEL MUSTE, MABUKA FROVINC

PLACE &

DATE AÇQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (27-28 JULY 1965)

SOURCE

REF

• IN

1 20969

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-7411

APPRAISALI A MENEER OF A GROUPS OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE ELEMENTS OF INFORMATION

COLLECTION. THIS GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE MID- 1961. THIS

ATTARI AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT FAILURE BY A MEMBER OF THE RAIDING PARTY..

1.

FIELO CONMENT: THE SAME SOURCE PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT SOME

MEMBERS C- THE MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO TMOC, CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC

MOVEMENT) WERE PLANNING A SEA-BORNE RAID ON THE DISTILLERY AT SANTA

CRUZ DEL NEPTE, HAVANA PROVINCE, WHICH WAS TO TAKE FLACE AT 2388

HOURS LOCAL ON EITHER 27 OR 28 JULY 1965. TWO SCATS WERE INVOLVED

IN THE PLANES RAID; THE "GERNARDO 11" WAS TO ACT AS THE MCTHER

VESSEL FOR THE "VICKY!" WHICH WOULD TAKE THE RANCING PARTY OF FOUR

INDIVICLALS CLOSE TO THE TARGET.

2. THE "VICKY I" HAD RETURNED TO AN UNIDENTIFIED LOCATION ON KEY

BISCAYNE, MIAMI, AS OF ABOUT ZEDO HOURS ON 27 JULY 1965. THE

18, UNC. Does 199 and 198, the smasmlain or revelation al which la any manner to sa unauthortand perlos la prohibicad by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

a tracted fronts

ICS SECDEF NSA NIC AID

ONE OCE ORa

OU MESSURY CUSTOMS BORDER PATROL NES. "COAST GUARD ADICI 2 CLANCE EXO

---

## Page 4

PLACE CONTROLA ABOVE TOP. BLACK LING ANU BELOW NOTTON MLACK WINS

MTO 8-04 (10)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTTLLED DISSEM

IN

IN 28969

CONFIDENTIAL

PAGE

TDESDE-515/02538-65

BE TRANSPORTED BY TRAILER TO THE HOME OF ANGEL HERNANDEZ ROJO,

"BERNADO " ALSO HAO RETURNED TO THE FLORIDA PEASY, AND WAS TO MARR

$ 1120 SVIS STREET, MIAMI FUSSELO COMMENT: HERNANDEZ WAS PREVIOUSLY PE

IDENTIFIED AS THE CHIEF OF THE RAIDING PARTY.) A THIRD VESSEL,

"PUNCHINCHIA," WHICH ALSO WAS INVOLVED IN THE OPERATION WAS

SCHEDULED. TO RETURN AT ABOUT 2408 HOURS ON 27. JULY TO HER BERTH

ON THE MIAMI RIVER IN THE VICINITY OF 350 NW NORTH. RIVER DRIVE.

3.

THE PLANNED RAID DID NOT SUCCEED BECAUSE THE VESSELS IN

THE RAIDING FLOTILLA WERE APPARENTLY INTERCEPTED BY A VESSEL

BELIEVED TO BE A UNITED STATES NAVAL VESSEL, AND MEMBERS OF THE

RAIDING PARTY WERE TOLD TO DUMP THEIR WEAPONS OVERBOARD. (FIELD

COMMENT: THE SAME SOURCE PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT THE RAIDING PARTY

HAD ONE: 57 MM RECOILLESS RIFLE, TWO FAL RAFLES AND ONE 30 CALIBER

MACHINE GUN. AS OF $938 HOURS ON 28 JULY, NO INFORMATION HAD BEEN

DEVELOPED TO SUPPORT THE ALLEGATION THAT A UNITED STATES NAVAL VESSEL

INTERCEPTED THE RAIDING FLOTILLA.)

4. FIELD DISSEM:: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, USCG, BORDER PATROL, I&NS, FBI AND CUSTOMS. (ALSO SENT.

PANAMA

CITY

CONFIDENTIAL

Sny

ENÓ ÓF 'MESSAGEOE'I

NO FIREEN DISSEM CONFAGLED OISSEM

---

