rogt0r74-10002

_ z Wiel, Seeurtty uaport Division OTE: 29 Sune 13967
aXTM 1 Mr. MUL tas Curtin,
Pot oo: Taterrogation Research Uiviston

- TRG: boh43 : ie

ERIM oT

lL. Gablect of this interviev ia a thirty-tvo-ycar-old festa, izeri- 7
cen eltiten, bern in Poaca City. Uklebwa, La sugust 1927. “be presently -
fe exployed by the Centro government cf Cuba ta the Ministry of Rublic
iffaies Office, a3 Chet of Pngtieh propeczate ant contacts in the Untted
Seates on Flucational Matters.

2.

3. Autject vas tntervinved on 7 me 1X tn the

Roca Dh-5, Interregetica of
Subject begaa at £71) nurs ant lasted ust £353 pours.
a
Trenscriptions wre attacked.
5

6. Since there ws Ufittle tine avatleble’ for Drisfing of tho under-
signed eal access to fudject, it vas necessary to conduct ¢ rather extensive
debricftzg ef Subject before polygcoph testing. Tarorraticn extranted fro
Subject during thie pertod can be Count in Seetions I through IV of
attactment..

SSARTS cP _AWyGR/PH TESTES

Qudieet's golyrrsph testiug cegan ct eproxciwtely 2150 bars. Ourieg
thin tine, Subject wee tested ca the followiag quétiove:

aon u




UD} tohm
2% June 1560



n

ROE AOS :
June 1960 iiaiia :

@

POLYGR HH Rewer .
. pene
Auslyste of the UBT test tatteates conct stent reactions to
gurasiens 16, 160, 13, 13, 133, 20, 22, 2%, (4). 51, 56, 57, &, &,
3, 04 G5. Toese reactions were not resolved throwh fatermmntion
because of trmfiletent tine being avaliable. It is, howmeer, thie Interro-
@ator'’s oplnica that Sudject bag auch wore inforsetion to reveal aml act
De re-icterviews at « Lctor dete aol then tested again.

DEDILS ace

1. Infyrwation obtained Mas Subject during Use pro-tast interview
{oticstes @ close relationship betwen Subject aad 6
Dectnicen Republic citizen fa the United Stetes on » resi¢cat vies.
1a wodoudtedly exe of Dubject's”cloaest frienis and confidents. Tn sub-
gect’s ova words, “f tell ber everythicg.*

2. Sdject’s Coancleal status ws dismusn. She sdvised che hed no
dann acecuuta, thet moasy meant nothing to ber. She estd vhen sbe nected
wey, shoalwyn cot cout fron hor father ont tricnle. She veo asked
to neme the frieots thet hed givms her nicey end to state eryroxizataly

how uch sopey thiy bad each gtvca.

3. Aubsect stated thet siuca 1951 the follewieg perv na contrituted
to ber oupport: :

’

wk.



i
i

Tidy 4OL32
20 ioe 145 i ‘i

t.

e- Lata Conte 4atte0

L. Subdject's past exploynent wis not complete. She-wts-moked to give
on itenized account of ber past expluyzent. (See Section I, pages 17
through 35 in attachsems..)

CONCLUSIONS AND RACOE SION TIONS
L. Information obtaload fron Subject 1e vutliccd in attachéent vhteh ta
© trenseription of tha interview. Thwes transertptions
were made becouse Subject end the taforcation presented by her preamtod a
Dizeriw vackeruind, om? which {s interwoven with odd fuancial cirmadtaaces,
Antelligesce personalities and ectivitics ead aany quietionidle asccetstions.
Adject's motivation aul loyelty ore uctcovn at this potat.
of ber devotion to Contra and bis beliefs tc quvationsble..

2. Sefore Subject can egain be Laterroiated end, tven 4 polyereph
ematnstion, the folloviog should be eaxpleted:

a. Pecterch cocpleted ou attached transcriptions.

b. ALL Of dujoct'e-elose anaouletes Investigated.

©. Thorough caxe checks curwleted.

ad. fk Deckpruuat foforvation extatiag va Subject be coicined,
FAT, Durecu of Rarcotics, Departrent of State, ete, acd
Prenente! to the unlersigent fav reviee in ortar to prepare

for the next interregation. EE
Palph 2. True
* Attacbaents:
Transcription
(Sectional throunn ¥)
ct cfeiy

“5+

fleo, tha extent,

.


“sever

TO ot Clef, Security Spport Divisica BT: 23 June 1960
aTTN ot Wr, MiLLfem Curtin je RC - :

PROX 1 Interrogation Research Division .

suarecr Gas, June . TRO bOAjL

TOSUTPYTNG DTS eee

1, Subject of this tuterview 19 @ thirty-tvo-yeer-old female, /meri-
can citizen, bura in Ponce City. Ckleboss, {a sugust 1927. She presently
{a employed by the Castro.goverment of Cuba in the Ministry of Aublie
iffeirs Office, as Chief of English propagaaia snl contacts tn the United
States on F.ucetional Matters. The JWIK proJect bas specific tnterest in
Subject ent is seeking an.cperational approval for possible future contect.

2. Me, Catet CT/IMARK, Mr. Hermdorf, case
officer, ‘ant to Mr. J. C. King, ¢; a eos, eohesuise
intervjev with this Division.

3. Subject vas interviewed on 7 June 1260 in the Raleigh Hotel,
Roca 304-5, procured by the Sccurity Support Dirtsion, Interrogetion of
Subject begen at 1710 hours and lasted witil 2355 hours.

4, The Security Support Division provided eudio coveruge during
‘the interrogation. Trénscriptions of the tape recordings are attached.

5. Wro. Joan Pigreon, CI/JH/RC, and the Case Officer, Yer, Hermsdort,
noaltored the entire interviev fro én edjetning roca. :

6. Stace there wae Little tine avetlable' for briefing of thoinier- .
siguel and access to Biibject, tt was necessary to conduct a rather: extensive
detriefing of Gubject before polygraph testing. Informtion axtrected from
Subject during this verted can be found in Sections I through IV of |
attachuent.

REGULTS_OF POLYOR: PH TESTICAS

Subject's polygraph testing began et approxinately 2150 buure. During
thia time, Subject was tested on the followiag questions:

Me. Bave you over been a omar of the Comunist Party” lo. i

la. Were you ever approtched to become « neaher of the Gowramtet
Party! Ho.

»AET


18,

Des.

‘ae

$l.

Tavs you ever partietpated tn exy wy ta any t70,of Gomis
sctivity! Bo.

Have you ever bees syupatbetic to the thoory dr practice of
Soviet Ccoxamisa? - Now

Bave you ever bees synpethetic to the theory or prectice of
Narxtent Ko.

Other than you beve sentioned, sre you personally acquainted
‘vita enyoue viom you believe to be syspatbetic to Somemion?
bh.

Otter than the Ciben Goveruct, have you ever wind ta any
capacity for a foreign goverment: Yb.

Wave you ever been asked to vork for a forelgn intelligence
orgeisstioa: Mo.

Are you scquatated with exyors working far ¢ foreten intol-
Ligence organizstion? So.

eae ee are
met Bo.

te | anything that might open you to blncicant)

1) vo you ever been arrested or Getalaed ty the police?

(2). Bave you comitted any undetected crimes?
(3) ‘Have jou ever retcived paychiatrie eivice? B>..
(4) Hsve you ever eogeced in buwsexmal ectivity: Fo.

wo Ouor than you bave venttodod, lee you weed aay:
-- eddletive type drugs? Bo...

fre you tow uatng, OF now ter eavther meno thet you have
Rot told us ebout?. Bo.

Hove you deliberately ‘given us any false informat! vege
your pest! Bos

secacl

“2


sre you # umber of tin lpeolutiouary Pstyt wh.
Are you sympathetic vith the Commntot World Mowoment?! Ho.

PAG you first mot Fidel Castro during his trip to the United
States in 19591 Yes. |

Bave you ever or are you now serving Fidel Castro in eay
intelligence capacity? Mo. i

Are you now en agent of Fidel Castro? Hoe

vere ras ever secretly comacted with axy SntelLignace orpiat
tetiont Bo.

fre you nov comovta with any Caten Intttignce service! Ho.

Are you now connected with tha G-27 Ho.

Are you nov connected with the DIFAR? Ho.
ére you Bow comected with the DIER? Ho. .

Bxve you hed eny secret commnteation vith aayont ta Cubs ott
oe ee on ee eee ee Ko.

Cita cae Galtro spvermaest stood you mave been inthe United
States? Mo. .

Bave you told anyone in Cuban Intelligence or Security Services
regarding the true purposs of your vicit to “he United States?
Foe -

Cther than you have mentioned, have you commmicated with enyoue
in the United States during this visit repaniiag the true purpose
eet hata ali be

Are yo cogcealing anything of on tutelMerace oF ascurity nature
from nel Ho.

ee er en ee ee eee eee
Aunabelle Wilson? io.



eee

ty tol i i
20 Juno .

1s :
A v
-
PCLYOR. Fu RESULTS — 2 -
Anatyate of the polygraph tect tniteates consistent reactions to
8 13, 13a, 20, 22, 26, (b), 51, 56, 57, 60, &2,

guretions 16, 160, 1
, ant 65, Tboce reactivas were not resolved thraugh intermention
deceuse of ingufficient tim boing evailedle. Tt is, hovever, this interro=
gator's opinion thet Subject hae such more information to rereal and must ,
be re-isterviews at 0 Later date and then tested again. H
. {
cee |

mens E ces

1. Information obtained fran Subject during ths pro-test interview i.
indicates @ close rélationship betwen Subject ani Rosalba ROCA, 6 Z
Dominican Republie citizen te the United States on a resi¢ent via, ROCA
4s undoubtedly one of Gubject 's”clonest frients ani coafidents. Tn Bubs
ject's om words, “I tell her everything.”

2. Sudject’s Mosncial otetus vas discussed. She advised she hed no

a
wank ecccwite, thet monsy meent nothing to ber. She ssid when she neeced
money, che alvays got eoue fron her father ani friends. She vas asked
to neme the frieads thet hed giveu her money end to state approximately
bow much money thuy bad each given.

3. Sudject stated that since 1951 the follouing persone cont
to her support: : ‘

Se

@. Alfred /UPEAUSER
575 Medison Avenue, Hew York City
apne $5,000

be BLL Sinema .
Maxieo City!
A few Iundred doliera.

*
c. Hrs. Lee B/RTR
Coral Gebles, Florida
& few bunired dollars.

4,. -Refuor HERRGY - finuce
sédrese unknown
A few Iundred dollars.
: as
. @. Dra Y. SUAPPER
+ Barbilon Plésa, ee
Severdi hundred dollars :

Lad a

abe



*  (Sectionst v;
“ eer i -

‘6
ff. dobany RICHCS
Gere Mickoleon, Fast 57th, Hew York City

4300.00,

ra
B- luis Conte UENO
Hew York City +.
$100.00,

bh. Jasper 8. CCS - father
Ponca City, Oslehorn.

4, subject's prot exploynent was not conplete. She-uns-esked to give -
fn iteaized secount of her past exploynent. (See Section I, prges 17
‘through 35 in attachsen. ) :

1. Taformtion obtained from Sybjoct fo outlined in attechient vhich {6
© treneortption of tape recoilings of the interview. These transcriptions
were mde becuse Subject end tho tufornation presented by her preaonted a
Diserve veckeround, one which {s interwoven with odd financiel circumstances,
intolligence personalities and activities eat muy qvretionable agscefations.

Subject's motivation and loyalty are unmnow at this point. Also, the extent

Of har devotion to Castro and hia beliefs ir queationsdle.,

2. Before Subject can sgain be interrogated and given a polygregh
exmmination, the following should be completed:

@, Reaeareh ecuploted on attached transcriptions.
d. ALL of Cubject's close associates Investigated.

@. Thorough naze checks coryleted.

a. AML deckground ioforvation existing on Subject be obtained,
H FSI, Bureau of Rarcotics, Department of State, etc., and
ie | Serger Sno eee aa
‘ for the next interrogation, -

: Ralph 0. True

* sttachaontss ; :
Transcription of hen} reconlings :

“5

