104-10004-10213

ee C FBke Aiseys

ee
¥/E7- A722)

9 July 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT . : Discussion with Warren Commission Staff Member

REFERENCE: Letter from J. Lee Rankin, General Counsel of the
President's Commission, to Mr. Richard Helms
dated 3 July 1964
with _SLAWIEN 4 Tey em restions,
oa & renee a

*
gs i Wddales
tow E ASHER of C/SR and the DDP, I met with Mr. W.

David Slawson ‘of the staff of the President's Commission on the
Assassination of President Kennedy at 1400 hours on this date in

the Commission's offices at 200 Maryland Avenue, N.E., Washington,
D.C. The purpose of this meeting was to discuss apparent inconsistencies
in material provided the Commission by CIA and by the Department of
State which were called to our attention in a letter from the General
Counsel of the Cummission to Mr. Helms, dated 3 July 1964.

2. By way of introduction, Mr. Slawson said that in the portion of the
Commission's report that he was writing, he sould have to deal with the
question of whether or not the OSWALDs! departure from the USSR - and
the circumstances (i.e. timing) of that departure - were unusual or
suspicious in any way. He expressed his belief that they probably were
not and cited Soviet relaxation in such matters jn the post-Stalin era.
However, he warted to be sure in his own mirg that our information was
not in conflict with that which the Commission bad received from State
since all of that information would remain in tee records of the

Commission.

3. After stating my belief that. there was no real disagreement or
inconsistency between the information from CLA and that from State, I
expressed the vie™ that the matter resolved itseif into three question

ee IN T- gS 6 4 fa. Do the Soviet

UN 3976

for FOIA Review on J es"tOPY.

jak.

SYA E

SECHEL


13-00000

> SEORET

HEE a. Do the Soviet authorities normally permit Soviet
H citizens married to foreign nationals to emigrate from the
Soviet Union to the homelands of their spouses?

z : b. | Do they normally permit such Soviet citizens to
accompany (i.e. depart'simultaneously with) their spouses".
from the Sovict Union? c

¢. How long does it take such Soviet citizens to get
Soviet exit visas ior such a purpose (time lapse from application

to granting of visas)?

4. Concerning the first two questions (3a and 3b above) I pointed out,
at we had addressed ourselves mainly to the question of Soviet citizens
being allowed to accompany their spzuses abroad while State dealt only

with the larger question of Sovicta married to foreigners being allowed

to emigrate without reference to whetner or not they left simultaxeously
with or at another time from their spouses. Mr. Slawson commented
that this explanation was most helpful and he reread what both we and

State had said in that light.

5. By way of further explanation, I said that the statements in
paragraph 6 of our memorandum of 6 April 1964 concerning Soviets being
permitted to accompany their foreign spouses abroad were based ona
review of 26 cases, of which 10 involved Americans... In only focr of
these cases did a Soviet wife leave the USSR in the company of her foreign

: husband; in 14 of the cases the foreign spouse departed alone; and in the

7 remaining seven cases insufficient details are known to permit us to

categorize them. I added that although State's information began by
citing the issuance of 724 quota and non-quota immigrant visas by the
American Embassy in Moscow during the period FY 1954 to December
1963, it did not indicate how many of these visas were for Soviet citizens
who had married U.S. nationals. Actually State provided detailed
information for only sixteen cases and did not indicate in many of these
whether or not the Soviet was permitted to accompany the foreign spouse.

16. In response to

: SEGRET


13-00000

eon | :

6. in response to a question from Mr. Slawsoa I stated that most
of the'26 cases upon which we based Gur statements involved foreign

* students, exchange teachers and other relatively transient persons,

- and while a number of cases have certain points im common, they bear
little similarity to the OSWALD case in that none imvolved a defector who
marricd prior to repatriating. I'noted that paragraph 6 of our 6 April
1964 memorandum to the Commission had pointed this out. Mr. Slawson
indicated that hg was now satisfied on this matter.

‘ 4. Concerning the length of time taken by Soviet authorities to
process exit visas for Suvict citizens married to foreign nationals
(question 3c above), I stated that, in my upinion, the information
provided by State (in the third enclosure to Mr. Meeker's letter)
substantially corresponded to the views expressed in paragraphs 6 and 7
of our memorandum to the Commission dated 6 April 1964. Mr. Slawson
asked if it would be possible to elaborate paragraph 7 of our memorandum
of 6 April by providing @ statistical breakdown of the cases on which our
statements were based. 1 indicated that this could be done.

8. At this point Mr. Slawson stated that as a result of our discussion
he felt that the question of possible inconsistencies bad been resolved.
However, he asked that “e send a brief written reply to the Commission's
letter of 3 July 1964 embodying the substance of what I had said concerning
the basis for statements included in our 6 April 1964 memorandum. {This
would include the gist of the draft reply to the Commission which I showed oe
to C/SR on 8 July plus an elaboration of our statements concerning Soviet

visa applications. ]

9. Mr. Slawson indicated that he sould be sending parts of his report
dealing with the Soviet intelligence services to CIA for checking as to
their accuracy. ‘He did not say when this would ocomr.

10. After concluding the meeting with Mr. Slawson, Lyead Volume 52
of the transcript of testimony before the Commission. included the
reinterview of Marina OSWALD. :

v
Lee H. Wigren
C/SR/Cl/Research



13-00000

An _N

O 00. So new, lent Sev. echye hoartect IE J

halle = sert fn ke74 eel AT

Sila sae aad ecleg 724 vise apphinferre

7 pebble, aps ae Spray «3

Bes 2
~ We Hc chin fu; fo act sey.

rently,
@ De So pt se bs moet wach

Beep (a clog rl Sil hr G eo ..) 7
pm Saigc Loe of Spree :

~ Sti cles wet Say
~ We eile avidin Mut Hay he uct

@ Mew bey dee PK Svs & gh Siren
b tep Oo ba hao of fon owe:

~ Gur GE7 Puuel g = Slots 3 “/< we

Canes ot tobe Ub bene me peer

We
he
: Ce ey
Ail (te \M2 2729) CS:Copy, Hel AGT F


13-00000

Cure rp by athiccen ld & berth” fo eae

1 of : ‘| ae :
f OF oe Der Peers a Cu hepa I, Seb beate G

wt ) j~ - sprees ou af SU,

sf 26 Cacea (12 1)

tec rh Ler olt ow EU

a Le

eateee Pu paset Pen Ay ene


13-00000

TF | —

NAN \ ——
va fescitsseed fester

@ rip pa pie EF? ae 2 7

few phn jy ew Aer Pelee

bt. ae wf Sov Species ff Fane ee
d

A. face Tobe by au Osea, Z forreee bean

Kpnbe of Sorta fa 0 ahs (0+)

debhid 2G ejuerg LG 4. afe


em ei of OF frrte
¢

ou done

ap hee oe fe

Sif Cnet |) Ge Mf bre te han by Soe ehhnche.

te poteciue tee ee ae 4. i rr f

(Fe eee Pa

fe tgs prae fe gerel fiw beawts of af
Sraueie Pus EPpy ofa ey Aun Vales Alege
fan $ Gee Glos Bak 77

a ee

40 ye oy
Mees be ies pea fey ple thie j- ep perer o O :

bs; Set ad Fat

oy sy 7 : oe
‘o) 72 bel ey, bvadtas Cove ll Cj Danes Vane

form {po - Bes

DOL. opp Geta fis Ses heb vere s
fn dekett) 6 IY of fine Or
Cede serge]

a a ae Mere wie Par nee f

Fon £G

SESE glee ase ase eae ee pptsaeeaaeinaananeccetee ree tae eeme cena eeeacee ence aaceate te URC tecmeneee EE
~16 baa He IY Yes

iy ya a ocr het pete th ef St

ae ee

cr


13-00000 _

a : fae pear
a 5 7 ‘

| (kez Jol “yu :
~ Safe obta S fret tockowe
ee a ews pen wii
ee wade A pere 6 ee
bene hen ft Cyl 64,
i

Af-2 G7 RA-I


13-00000

Gi al raed vA 2 a ell B Waren Cun
BD decree oo atte Maan (ee
-- bane Eatsee Al i $4 cy porwr $47
8B) Hes fo fia tok: f. ee gee

ved 28 PGT, par 49


13-00000

aL
17.
18,
19.

21.
22,
234

2h.

25.
26.

ChSE

Avericah.voman who met and aerried
soviet citizen in C=Z
Auerican student’

Anerican clergyman

American tuuriat’.

Jeecrican student or tourist
&uerican corresponcent
Italien student

italian student

Italian stydent

Iranian returnee

west Ceraan student

Swedish student

Swedish student

Suedish businessman

Stedish student

Awerican teacher
Americanbusinessman

student?

Prenchean on trip ts

Callean residing and worzing Hoscow
italian student
Finnish student

Aoparently Greek; éetatis eninown

‘imerican tevrist (u:valaneed, fgs~
fan-born father vader 752 surzey)

italian communist Jovrnalist
Swedish student
Anerican businessman

wos

ey

Py eN ses Qniqcnaans

NK soe

Kad

x
x
I
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
z
?
2

a ey

”

LRAEME TIME TO

PROCESS VILA

fe

4 months

fe months


13-00000

TOTAL CASES: 26

FOMEIGIER IbFT UlcR VITERT SOVIET SPOUSE

own (STBWZASLATIATY Arlene
WERECH Leoaard
us, 2 seh Seay
\HEGRETY Thomas
TOKE Revert So
ferrets IneSano- :

Sef nz

(TELE Ws
a KuOsi WHETHER THEY LEFT USSR TUGETICA

us CLEPRMAS Edgar
SPEMDILL C. Grant
fae ie (AEFRAPPE)
Ch I~ CRUZ OCAIZO Alvare :
aela aw GRIECO Ruggiero
- LAVIEKALA Asser , :
% LYFSOURIDES aehillefs

SOVIET SPOUSE ACCOMPANIED FOEIGIER :

PACKLER Allen-Lavi¢
SCOGKAMIGLIC Fario

KRONE JO Tox
SALTOR John (but note that he wanted to take her out with him orier

: te their marriaze, since she was still technically azrried to
! someone else, St Loviets refuseri exit visa, ani he had to return
later te sarry ter and then await oe

to bring fer oct.)



13-00000

A rat nant f
| i. 7 ok
Teceee eee
a SternZaslavsidy | :

. to not as of three years after narriage
Nirseh yes Jmo. .
Olsen . yes wider 5 no. i:

} Rielson - yes 6-7 m0. cies =

H Hegarty. 20 wet _ ‘of L motths after nivsseys :

i Tyeker | yes

j Bassani 6 not aa of 3 months ation re: .

i Celatd ne : woos

: Bellingona - yes Il'mo. ;

| Yemnikh ? :

t Bettin yes ‘at least a ae
Johansson yes 9 mo, Visa took either 6 weeks or 7 months.

: Murdenstam = yes. 7 mo. Or Rore : eects

Tandahl née not as of 3 months after marriage 7

: Thelin yes 11 mo. or nore

| Tehran |?
Pendill yes .

(Srerchnan) yes. married 1959 or 60; out as of 21 Hay 1962.
Crus Ceamspo no not as of 32 years after aarriage :

Lavikkala yes
Lymbourides 7

Packler yes 13 no, Visa took 6 months. i
Scogneniglio yes 9 mo.
Xronsjo yes married prior July 1962, Applied for ‘orwegian visas

for period 7 July - 20 August 1962. To go from there
to Sweden peraznently. Supoosedly did.
Sander yes Smo.

TMZ FOR SCVIET SPHISE TO GET VISA

Known: Fackler 6 no.
——~-Seognaniglio 9 mo.
Sandor 5 mow

! Johansson 7 mo, or about 6 weeks

Implied: Yirsch not over 9 no.
Olsen BB beS m26 :
” Hielson Lasteteecet 6-7 mo.
Eellinzona eee il ne.
Tueker ten years
* Bettin at least 2 year

Nurdenstan 7 no, or nore
Thelin 11 Ro, or nore


13-00000

Wp ES 2M aaa oS
; “In three cises there wes « lapse of several-nenths betuben eppli-

- cation and issvance of the Soviet exit vise (five months in one case,
six in the second, and nine in the third). In another case the western v

“husband was‘ reluctant to lerve the USSR without his Sovnt al tne:
did-s¢ some six months after the woddin: enly cecause’ the Soviet autyor=

ities told hin that ber exit spplication covld not be processed vnti. a
he'tad left, The visa was issued-only about six weeks after his de-

parture,,but it may have Leen applied fer wien they were married or

at any tine during the next six months. 7 :
In four other cases it is possidle “oe infer aporcxinate tim aaecaaedt

linits for the granting of an exit visa. Gaz was granted within four
ths, the second within six to sever, xonths, the third witaia

to five non:
nine months, and the fourth within eleven months. In three additional

eases visa issuance tock a xinima of seven, eleven, ax tuelve montas

respectively.

—



13-00000

@-

Za

*

TUCKER Rebert
BASSANI Inefane
CELATI Anileare
BELLUZOUA Glevannt
ww

ESTTIN armi¢
JOHANSSON Burt
MORDENSTAM Gunnar
IDNDAHL Huge
‘THELIN Nils
LONBHAM Edger
PENDILL C. Orant
‘AREXAPEXZ Frenohzan
CRUZ OCAMPO Alvare
GRIECO Ruggiere
LAVIEKALA Asser
LYMSOURIDES Aehillefs
PACKIER Allen
SCOGNAMIGLIO Marte
MROXSJ Tom

SANDOR John

: XT VISA
MARRIAGE DATE © APPLYBATION
26 ang 61 Soon after
latter May 62
30 Jan 60
Fed or Mar 62
28 May 59
1913
10 May 61 immediately
Aug 62
duly 61 imnediately
9 daly 61 “ er Jan 62
Avg 61 or prior
21 Des 61
nid~6l er prier imediately
26 Mar 63 Docdiataly
aid 50's er prier
1959 er 60
early 1947 aid-l7
fall $9 er pricr
11 Feb 62 dug 627
Aug 60 Dee 60
prier’ Jul 62
2 Nov 57 Lunediately

sonived tw sect - !
gene
wre ge |
U3 = 21 Kay 60
partes Sept 62 '
nat out yet Sept 59
Us 2953

not out yet Aug
expected Jums 62°
Italy = July 627)

i
H

net out yet spring/”
ypeden = April.
7 visa red

Suogen, “plan eh?

not yot out Har 62
Sweden = spring 627

US = nid 50's pig
Hay 62 |
France - as of ay.

net yet out Aug S2 ¢

Firlavd- 7

Italy - Maren 63

Italy = 6 Mey 62

Norway - 7 Jul €2?7
US~ 31 Mar 58



13-00000

TOTAL CASESt 26-°

FOREIGIER LEFT USSR GITHOUT SOVILT EPOCSE

Knowns —_STERN-ZASLAVSXTY Arlene
KIRSCH Leonard
OLSEN Clark
NTELSON Philip
HEGARTY Thomas ie
qo Rebert : ae
BASSANI Ineiano : : :

. CELATI Anileare :
HELLINZOMA Gtovannt,
YEVUIKH Stepan Ge ated
BETTI Arnulf page : :
JOHANSSOW Kurt : :

‘THBLIN Nils Yee
LODSMA TARE LD A?

NOT KiOWH WHETHER THEY LIFT USSH TETHER

LEPRHAM Edgar
PENDILL C. Grant
(AEFRAPPE)

CRUZ OCAKPO Alvare
GRIECO Rugeiere
LAVIFEALA Asser
LYMBOURIDES Achillefe

SOVIET SPOUSE ACCOMPAWIED FOGREZIGIER
PACKIER Allen David

7 KRONS UP Tem oe
SANDOR Jehn (but note that he wanted to take her out idth him prier
te their marriage, since che wes still technicelly married te

tut Seviets refused exit visa,

sengone else,
and then evait granting ef exit vise in erder

later to marry her
to bring her out.)

7
MTD HISTO
preg] ROSEDT ay
LITIT ZIGSATISVENUGIS = FUNOUT,
oft
SIO4S LSTAOS_LOOHLIN LzzT wROTIUOS
=
er)

9% *SASYD TVIOS

eotaaa casera Cavesrsecessssrcengseocmsiy

i
!
i
|



13-00000

;
i
f
i

be) i
STEROS-ZASLAVSEIY Arlene
KIRSCH Leonard
OLSEN Clirk
NIELSOH Philip |
HEGARTY Thomas
TUCKER Robert
BASSANI Lxefane
CELATI Awfleare
EBLLUSZONA Giovanni
‘EvNIEH
PETTIN Arnulf
JOHANSSON Fart
WHDERCTAR Gunnar
IDNDAEL Fugo
THELIN Nils
IZFRIAN Eegar
PEIWILL C. Grant
AIZIAVELZ Frenchwan
CRUZ (CAMPO Alvaro
GRIECO Ruggtere
LEVIWALA Asser
LYVSOURIDES Achillefs

G — pacuER allen
SCCGUAICGLIC Mario

20 — moxsef tem
C= SAXCOR John
Ge hontaraink ref

fe ee exit Come
HAIG UTE APPLIBATION
26 aug 2 ~——Soon after
latter Hay 61
30 Jan 60
Feb or Yar 62
28 Hay 59 :
isis: *
10 May 62 “fanediately
fee 61
suly 61 innediately
9 daly 61 * or Jan €2
Aug 61 or prior
21 bec 61
eid-6l or prior imeciately
28 Kar 63 iareciately
nid 50's or prior
1959 or &
early 19,7 aid-U7
fall 59 or prior
LT Fes 62 Aug 627
tug 60 Bec 60
prior Jel £2
2 Nov 57 danediately

tS <'Feb 62

tS ~ 21 May 60
Paris = Sept 62

: oot eat jet Sept 59 |
8S 1953” :

not out yet Aue 61
expected Jane 62
italy - Joly 62

' é
not oct yet spring/

Bueden ~ kpril 62
~ Visa aic-Feb
ae a
not yet out Har 62

fueden - spring 622 ™

US - nid 50ts

Hay 62
Freee = as of 21/
rot yet out Aug 52

Fielova - 7

Italy - rareh 63

Italy - 6 May 61



13-00000

tA 7 : rane
1, Paragraph 6,0f our memorandum of 6 April 1964 wee a -
ecg
seh. -}

response to queation #3 of your memorandum of 12 March 1964 extitted:

| Questions Posed by State Department Files. ' That questioa read as fellowes
ae ”
; OSWALD and M. OSWALD left ~

i +
“At the time that L.

Russia for the United States was it legal and normal under Soviet law

and practice for a Russian national married to an American to pe able

to accompany him back to hia homeland? Was the rapidity «li which
. \

mN ne
L HI OSWALD was able to accomplich this and Marina's retura in

any way unusual? * :

2. Our reply addressed iteelf to the legality and normality af Soviet

departing simultaneously with) foreign spouses

citizens accompanying {i.

out of the USSR. It was based on a review of 26 casea, of which 16 tinvolved

Americans, in which foreign nationals married Soviet citizens im the USSR.
In only four of these 26 cases, did the Soviet wife leave the Soviet Umion in the

company of her-hueband. In one of these four cases, an Italian Coammuniat

/ Party member married


13-00000

Party member married in the USSR and by prevailing upon the liallan Embaasy

to hold up Italian vieae for Soviet seamen, was able to arrange for bie wife to

an American met his

‘accompany him to Italy. In two more of the cas.

future wife on a visit to the USSR, married her on'a subsequent trip, and -

brought her back to the U.S, No detaits are available on the fourth caee,

which involved a Swedish student who married a Soviet student and apparently

brought her out with him.

3. In 14 of the remaining cases, 2 foreign husband (in one case a wife)

departed alone, In another case the wife preceded her huekand because he

had been jailed a manth or two previously for violation of travel regulations

and in 7 additional cases the sequence 1s not knowa,

4. The information in the third enclosure to Mr. Meeker's letter

regarding length of Ume taken hy Soviet authoritles to process visa applications

\

of Soviet wiv:

of American citizens substantially corresponds with the

conclusions which we expressed in paragraph 7 of our tnemorandum of

6 April 1964. The material from Mr. Meeker provides useful additional data

ae
/regarding Soviet visas



13-00000

regarding Soviet visa processing, aad does act ‘materially alter the

conclusions stated in paragraph 6 of our memorandum. We feel that any

apparent inconsistencies may stem fr

problem by the State Department and this Agency.

|

i

!

!

i

{

s 1
om the different approaches to the ~ |
iy

i

4

|

H


13-00000

n° :
ad ~ i :
Jor tnclu sion
te Ocurkd
fer AL
aaa

Mag iang 2908.
Gov

ace.

ae AN Se

. te eeigea nae
BRA 2679957 vay a eek
In 2b Moy OF , Nb va Weise) pewathed £2756
hb Boos Evuss-ov O% Lomoinstovike Seog bt, Apr

243 ee en Bove gh ae (ret and
1 batage.

Apat ayer, btw dn Oy Ane A canal, Morealige
Low ede th ae “An 162. Meat Maly, we Meese, a

Ye “hlpind, aad wie: 7 aK OWepiensi na,
Kons $e “Dvir, tt? tasy be denrecld wl

1 hog eal ve BAe atheed by Bip er ge
few gil on Wes abe. 1 1p ta Sesite fe, AY
gdhtrnad on i) Ase 62 Biff

Lu} aud lex U9. Sloss Sth ea Nestled ured wn
1G 14 “De 62, aed pi, aah Wot Mbvistew, OU,

= 2
Sas fas a Mack

Lor fa Zk

habs Meet (EU SE

7
Abad te wr

Eats 1H WV — born (926 ~ taptleged ; Molten ct Antari.
LID be

Lia- 79641, 22 dui, ot E =

7Ol agen Ls Be 7
ad flas,

O/ Cin 53, he sae

La sLibun Laliisf US Fite $2, Mer brolls,

eal

Ge tans. bela syed UL wm 27 Fg EY

bbc.
€ Vv


13-00000

i

Nolinat ow oe
 aruaged tf shes

Gq Wa theraer. lie
lintd in Ov riers
‘pip, Te métne
pyc ented in
conait ings he- :
Dutin, CHA § Sate.

27
1... Oa 9 daly 19%, Mr. W. David Slewsen ant @ representative of

CIA diseussed the question ef epparent inconsistencies in aaterial pro-

vided the Cenissien by CIA and by the Departuent, of State, At that
tins the question was resolved to Mr, Slamcea's satisfaction, and it
vas agreed that CIA would furnish a statistical treakdewm ef the cases
en whisk CIA based the statenents in parazra>h 7 ef its menerancum of
6 April 196k.

2. eee
legality and normality ef Soviet citizens departing the USSR simultan-
eosly with taeir foreign spouses, Statements were based cn a review
ef 26 eases (ten involving Americans) in whtca fereign nationals married
Seriet citizens in the USSR. In enly three ef these 2 cases did the
Seviet wife leave tho USSR in the company ef her tusband. In two ef the
eases an American met his future wife on a visit te the Seviet Union,
married her on a subsequent trip, ad breught her beek te the U.S. Me
details are available on the third case, witeh imvalved a Swedish student

whe married a Seviet student and appereatly treugst ber eat wits him, In

ar
)


13-00000

Hl
i
i

ae

perted aloes In eno were of the 23, the wife proceded har husbend
beeause he had"boen Jailed month er tee previeusly fer vielation of
eee ee Piel eos eee ee ee

3. The infernation in the third enslesure to Mr. Heeker's letter
regarding length of tine teken by Serist etuerities te precess visa
applicatiens - Soviet wives ef Jocrisan citizens substantially eorres=
ponds with the sonclusions viieh we exzreson! im paragraph 7 ef tn our
6 April menerandun, In efeven ef the 2% eases, this time peried is
jem fairly definitely ar ean bo inferred: In three cases tt took from

atta Ine be
five te nine menths, Inferring ia the etler eight cases, three beck oe

about six nenths, two more were issued in net mare than nim te eleven

regaicd
nenths, and three tesk a ainimm ef seven te tualre months. Apparent:

Ansensistensies between thése statistics ani these previded by the State
.

Departaent undoubtedly arise from a differen im appreach by the State

Departaent and CIA.


13-00000

Fy
Fi

_,. Western husband was reluetaxt te eave the USSR witheut his Soviet wif

application ant isscance ef the Soviet exit visa (five months in ene

ease, oix in the secent, ex! nine im the third), In anether case the

He 414 se seme eix months after the wedding enly because the Soviet
utherities teld him that her exit explication eould net be precessed
until he had left, The visa was fesned enly about aix weeks after his
departure, bat it may have beem syplied far when they vere surried er
at ary tine during the next six marten.

In four other cases it 45 pecnthile te infer apprexinate tins linits
for the granting of an exit visa, Ome was cranted within four to five |
nenths, the second within six te seve mmtha, the third within nine
months, and the fourth witiin elewn meaths, In three additional cases

Vine iesuance teek a minimum ef sever, eleven, ani twelve uenths res-

postively.


13-00000

fe vs

oe Saeuree teen
/. a jrveallancout niles on Set manted
Ue g heat

Ade Fonsiminty tas dow hrland; pare
Varvold Begaan te (ge Che 7 pet Ain
iad 4 USK. (2 Oct 62. :
 Leovnd Alhseh © Ley je has ote m osa.® ey
coseph Ao Fonogm near 7 of feruc (ref Cumersrur.
Crtrt to LIK “24.12.60, Hbe been visiling oe
704 con brinewreg hua oe OS. Married js.
Se Haris ale cibracize/ Aga Mi
heh ds — the, he, 7. hb ie : Yee G ao
ee, Ae, Toes 4 , ey weoclang "ae
tbs Ago wilod 3o-¥. Lea a facil, AWN
al, Chiwa hin pligle. shaud 4 a
Late nb vj lar a dMedtula (nana .
Soe. UO bh i hie compound pret

fey. a hate cou wharty
oes 7OW DEM hiwatte Aki gporlanithe.
AmEub Meteo ne A 308, 318.62.

Adgon LEHRMAN, “Us ewebauge avy at cditens a;
md 4 ld ot ae nv, AN Yaité, 6a. Jo bx
aimtal bee Ce Rul MAK Kw,
a. elf , wp art wes slit kt elles eae
duit Srdloxy thé avbins log & [a a 4


13-00000

a \ se tacate! or rage S
i dpnuty , fac lan be fanage * fettiin. gets
Pret, j fue ~ becd hua bite aud by
“dev adillenteca's LenRmnd wold pal .corfcrie
db - ho eonrment jee Aepossee D> bel LHIELE. o
pourers haw F Wes Ul Mo tetclclierg
Gf Awl, Kinh ffrecats

tlt pe got cl
atid bad Min
Moscow HP , 327. What oper sd
Le Harweg Oswihta , cdtitact + DEI ~ 26883,
dol- PPIREY Fh 62
Nils BTHELIN, Auvidolk Lythause Aident $f
Mo-6[ pieqram - Mea pul ycl beau. hte
brn nd fartian Wife, Lrluch Ftetg tylatn,
Mun ifre-Sev futudlinent ” if priate is tate 3“
TICRYSTALI fundect apt lo hyr 62. EEE

nus was aca, o; AEGRISILE-1 T wfe Rinma KRA VT Ove
mates sramaied in Laat Jake, Of + ,

Kort Jouan sow ; Avwediohe Hele wuge warp gladtud
Lands of “Fae Aa GEREBRENN! Kove, alles wkd
TASS granedet. AEPROMISE (2ol- 274504-)

Mariel Lat, 1; ff thd 41"
April. a % &L h z a. POMEL aif
cuthis'. We the Maid yy lee Ard Am
aclectarshuy Hudinle de (Mar Ser gal; Mee
ollar 2 MWK atte b buitg het MVS y pea

aad of puch a havnt,

ay


13-00000

Cree)
nN

Jess OO Ovi seis As wet 0 Gl ay

rgd -

wetully. ie hoped’ ntake up cs Lek

thai" bbe dacdiil. Gird LMantte-|

| [ges Aeppodly,

ad Av ge, oe f

3 es 2. TE DS paisa, dee pure bfo wr
he — Be, [bb Ven ee puede ne :

wearon bar vide ae preubui an

bes Gl Caack 2g bint facies g te ba raey of
Liter. Sv frrbee' duapuscn 14 nice bbor ” She Soxd.
Neve breed ‘had Aol + eo Hlth. difpeul,

flew fou Ler oud he gel ed aclr han Hex!

tien’ - one Coo Y pall ous no fp vet get.
Ne crnsdina der precericny fas FE les
v/, mm innuod Gant Vuh, . de Cents
Z t ben watt bp turd, te Lear TUM, bo

OZ ee Uylee. phitiateyy tuded - a

ee a g gen ¥ he tee Tel “pid Feb at
YS end cad ae Liye dled, Slo
CONCH on Sov eylernak Peep lary
have celled Yuk we” nibs beg Y y alae
Ag ” Valf Hat Ca ctuk Const
fine bet Lhat A as, be eM wo i
ja ye han fo tel, YK af ¢laui To %, Gave


13-00000
adie ot

Agave: sililhlh
/
Banner ae ee oe Y 140-6)
Bred if Mtn A 2 me MNibih, a

Fashinstegt, Silos, ule te. Koti tinged:
A bye £ eg thy G/ Leb: j Colleaboiy, Ase
4} ILE 4, lutfe wt sof oud (Atel ° peed ace,
Wes, sled je Ws dol wdire

Nore 4» 7 of ex the gil aria Feb
62 aud Arid him wn Maret. i

Vohn SnnpoR sol- meets peat) , Miter can 4 Shing
Whiston, Lawyer cal ee fist ail felled iw
hin gwreck Wil T, Jul, (956 bs are
tin Motor? Ga pied Louris
Nel Kdeloul toe.» hove af Dt ight yy)
gs a Aaheyne Koewvecvh 26(- 276467,

Libel jnolinpioter fuse a Het Morkec,
Pen otecd ] ree ota acepled pet day
Me slit mariad te they bectlmed BEAK

Kacn Meseger of lic). Sf is beam Ade tut
bohe Claty eenstd mag, [bays tie stlety J Sl


13-00000

A a | ie ho cee

BH a 46. ee

Lo 2H ait 7. Vikbouga
SL) Adsl at Mesh ve Wb, 52 Maced 78
a Nov 57, bived Che 01 Llaey 7) ot Aalit

Ce LY deparfte Lem OUR,

IS ad appar , Lia [le ge - dey Avon.

6 Mo wel be fore Nelurtucg tt OLR Nov £7. :
Hy idan | gare WAS jraetnn ZL ale, ViLR ©

dar Lyit oedbvit ALC: mor) darted MY

i 3.58
Lay 84 aaa, sy wetting JL fo
conteclin WY folarSfr bab tube Gade ter

ap ed? de Aad MUNNINDA | pblioed “a.
Wik ao 4 W061.

ASH ov (euko LAVIKALR. Fnnrel- lew slaenk, 7e
Fas on teh At K pr SE-SF gear, Marvutd

git at wkunbr dal. ee Keb

- ‘dd Zoe tee leu tink gy? 402 74

a or eel, vk el) se
VALINK When S


13-00000

Mex bdacd LgcrheR US cttw; poainied
kha LrYoviilh- (te bio cand > 2of #)-

Luong © Miwird ZELENKOV IE 20/- BB2736-

: Adhitl, 9 LYMBGURIDES | Maniid Aelita Bosiiovit a.
Dro ih + DEMIR « Ay 59, 20l- 3) 2213,

eGHAIM) L1G wer sprrbbeeable My Veded fpern PEL
F wy) a {j

Ge be ymatt fi muck a lou
glen} eis wif ade CIE, dirt Anal.
Druuch diffe thot ler. 4410 wire. A
ee v fo, a) sla elma KOB
WL at “Karid Univ.
Aol n CRANE -RoBU(SON , 26> old But sevontest-
fem Mavcizikr, han bt Widlyuig 4 USE ,
Uencngrad. ter ile Ar an gd Prine
Mkbaleras ROSAMOVA bn AB Que Cat?)
of flaw Ge Mansinge s, lub Ai Lorn wernt
idzperid P26, spect, Ne MeQuLt f PPS 00
ht the acute wd ugely Sad Uwe ben fs hale
That us tie bcd ifgered 7 gate af taed Chey beulf


13-00000

aS hei ae

nt snake Keeplira | Lees LY thug.”
Hhed brian to bear, & Crash. packin Tt eht thee
peg on PAIK Ofte wegpprvdl, Told bin

ny Llesore helewe bes wilde t gl Wa. te '
tli Col nakAa ted be. Cll thal -”

nif Romsone peated & Arik ye fla would
Ae thle te duwe We toute. ©

lyase OchMPo , gon of bee Phat é WIS , heared
Gv Lidge LIESSINA (bauberutid te
Brey 4b 's pbacclinee feud bane K66] )
weltey blew Le 73 eyo old, Mei-47
Ce Aipused ables get ,
‘desnvle Uilauw Urtibuee %} dyke rele wy
Wid te Nv 47, COL Pub sfeged i, Mose til
Aydt 49 (0s privale tt Y) in fulihe allimpt
Tee Gev pedihus Hd ao J a,

COLGE
e at Aatctine Fn. Nati. untucera -

Lat vh6A caus (tub. hikest

a inbieda fF
( Stbfe beowt is Aiwaik imeeaun al bhtn pwr
FS Oia Aleseat A Qréad tn LIK Cetk Sark, fay ihg

v

Be


SE canvele

Aliaso ALM hn Meteors mussel & Looe a
AEMIRIRD/ jeanuied Wo Kasaeny, agetloggghladenl

When tery Lucy of she Cable © deauis. Het
fae tity egcg 2 K6Baks lhe weil i

wold pun te ehlred te leave ¥ Marry 7

Aoiun hates (aa accel Levbut — which She.
es wold nel de»

FOLDERS NOT QyéECKED
tQng
US £76) ~-62.
Ntricanre :
LONDAM L hiding. hee ZELENKOVA 201-, 332738

a


13-00000

Se6 201-234750 on Tamara S.KUKGUROVA, .

+ Oa bis ‘second trip-to: the USSR in January 1959, Philip Robert

“yaetsos! fas given an INTORIST Anterpreter/guide named:

Tamara Stepanovna KUNGUROVA,'.A romance developed Vetween them and NIELSON
bocane deternined to'saray her,hich he finally did in the spting of 1962.

. His femily did everything in their power to dlscourege this romance and Johw

Hafnes of the State Deptartment received letter from MIELSON's father re
affair Not seeking help but advice on what to do. ae

NIELSON later received Istter from bis father in fall 1960 giving in
details the contents of a conversation father kad had with John Hanes of State.

Hanes stated that:
a. All American-Soviet marriages had turned out to be unsuccessful,

b. The Soviets never let one of their netionals out of the country under
euch circumstances unless the person had been recruited as a spy.

c.The Soviets will prctably not given NIELSON « viea(he tried unsuccess-
fully all summer and fall 1960 and in 191 to get Scv visa).

cy


13-00000

i
i
‘

“Wikis regard to the marriage of a Soviet to & foretzier,tiora
KORZSENKO(utio married a British diplomat in the. 19/0te}has this

to sey:"Hbst of the wooen tio bave Harried foreigners eust have egrecd

at one tine or another to carry out some cort of spy work for the Soviets,
Otherwise, they vould not -bave been given pettilaston to marry foreigners,

“A for oven the marriage certificate has. fo be 1esued by the secret police."

Hora,kerself,vas recruited ty State Security through cosreion and only :
alloved to leave the country by agreeing to work for Seubet State Security.
This she never did ae, nce out of the country she broke completely with
the Soviets end it is prosumed that she has furnished information on
that organization to the British services. (ML Spied for Stalist by
Nora Murray). z

Petr DERYABIN, State Security officer who defected in 1954,has thie
to say xbout the Soviet women who have contact with or who marry Coreignerst
Soviet vonen associating vith foreign men will be recruited by State Security
when the association 4e first begus,or after it has developed,or when plans
for marriage heve been made, " Even if only 5% of these voren are 100%
loyal State Security workers,and the others work lesa loyally,it 1s still
considered a vorthvhile operation.No vonan known to be anti-Soviet would
ever ba given a visa to leave the country,even if sho vere married to en
anbassador.The Soviets instruct all persons in this category to make romarks
against the Soviet Union when abroad,but these remarke are not tc be too strong,
nor are they xade for publication*by press or radio."

In the carly 1x0te, vhen anyoung American was thinking of narrying an

INTURIST guide,his father contacts a knowledgeable official of the State

Department who made the following rezarks:

I, All serican-Soviet narricges sud turned out to be unsuccesful

2, The Soviets never et one of their natioanls out of the country under
uch Serbia aE83 fnttrfage to's roreigner) unises tue peceon an Coe recruited



Sioa

It 46 believed that the Counterintolligonce Directorate, iReport
(Rontrrazvedyvatelioye upravpeniye-ERU), of the KGB sntttaten operations
against foreigners ineide the USSR, When the operation esis outside the
USSR into foreign countriee,i.e., when the probatlé recruitzents have boon
cchisredyand the persons 4A question Leave thé 1SSR, the operation 4e thin
turned over to the Foreign Intelligence Directorate (Inostrennoye ppravleniye-
Nu) panini the operation until such tine as it is terminated. :

BY


13-00000

ane
= :
: '
aa ee ie es a
A : : :
, aA ‘ fone
Hl cay John SANDOR = M4 and proposed to Viktoriya KCCHXCVA in°1956, but : :
i had to leave USSR befcre they could get married. Jeturned in 1957
j and farried ter Nov. Arrived together in US in Karch 1958+
4 ia
i
1 pa a
i
!


13-00000

i

“

Noth. Dogvicont

ree vance tye wy
: JZ.

peckionad Laden hat oy

Y . -
Pendle. 9 Cerids Wactetd

Bol Stang

“4

‘a

nm OL pdf's. Aly E006
AHL 2K IT 6

~ Kiesew Leorad, Ghee

mets fhe , sd

N

QSEN Bake» hes
Men 67
He ft

ol G2

He lire

8 ae

Alar pede Caw arn Fy d 690508 spete ¢ 62+

OA Py anaes

A
Ml 2F7G 2

SELIG th SP 7 gy butted

v AESMRIY Shor. 3. Fé Hs

cles ir we buy

(iti tid «

36


13-00000

;

26 July 1963

Savtet _wanen married to ‘otter nationals: ° : :

BORISOVA, Hatalya (201-312072) - married to Itelisa Scognesizlia whom”
she left. Living with siother irae

ACONE@=

-LYOVDIA, Lilya = married to Allen David PACELER, U.S,

pcre citizen. She has 201 file, See Sx/éfsto
card for number.

ZELEMROVA, = married to LONDAHL, 201332736 os
i |
"tae ee
SEREBRENTKOVA, Tamara = Married AE PROMMISE,/) ~ SEE 5R2
. aoe Tonora - Leningrad Univ, born ca, 1936-27.

Former INTURIST guide. My records
do not indicate to whom she is
married,

Louise

LYBOURIDI, Aelita Borisoma ~ Born Sutarxxegion Yalta , 29 May 193K.
nee Married to Achillefs LRSOURIDES

aka DEMIKA dn August 1959. 201-312213.

Be
