# 104-10010-10104

## Page 1

1104-10010-10104:

This document,

#IA XAAZ. 36411

relend with deletion: Test & taleng, stake fill no.

by authority of

Ancin hone

dated,

des 22,22

---

## Page 2

13-00000

RELEME

LIGENCE AGENCY

ss 175 monues to an unauthorized person lo prah/iland i

NO FORETE DISSEM

1A

COUNTRY

SUSJECT

FAILAND/USER.

CANNIS BY ALEKSEX ADZHULEY

IC THAI AND SOVIET ELOC

UPICIAÏS

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS -3/569,95

15 JANUARY 196%

2

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACE

24 NOVE BEN 1963

FAZIR, BANEKOS

ME D202ZU2, 196:

= BARLY JANU FY 1964)

HIELD REPORT NO. FIT: 7675

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE

LAISAL OF COt

TENT

SOURCE: PA: I - A EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN (B) WHO HAS OCCASIONAL CLOSE CONPANT FTYH

SOVIET BLOC TRADE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIAIS.

FICA

2

•PRAISAL OF CONTENT: ADZHUBEY PROBABLY MADE THE COMMENTS AS REPORIND.

DURING A RECEPZZIN AT THE SOVIET MASSY, ALASEY ADZAUBEY

34: J35 JOVERICENT'S ERKES IN OVEREMPHASIZING INDUSIRY AT TEE EXESU

HE URGEJ IRE SOVISA DIPLOMATIS COMMUNITY TO DICRESSE

-1SO WIRE THE TAIT PEOPLE IN ORDER IN TMEROVE REPONTING ON LOGAL

ADZEUELY FELT IE JIAIS SHOULD KNOW THE SOVIETS PATTER TOE,

/BOX SAID SEATO, CENTO AND NATO ARE USELESS, THAT THERE iS IROTLE IN

LE REI AS LAOS, AND THAT TRAILAND SHOULD LEAVE THE CHIVA ROSE

LATER COMMENTS BE ADZHUBY TO PRIME" MINISTER TRANCY. 1ND

"TIER TRATIT MY DAC? DORSE COVERICA CO SOTTI STANDE MIE MACI

: À RECEFZION GIVA IN EIS HONOR AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY, BANSKO!

NOW-B 1963, ALEKSEY ADZEUESY, INESTINA EDITOR AND ARUSPONEY S

SUI. LAl, DELIVEREL A SPEECH ID SOVIET BLOC REPRESENIATTYES VEC RAD 22

"IT 70 SRAY AFIET. THE RECEPRION.

ADZHUBEY EXPRESSED DEEP PERSONAL S

'A POURET AS THE DEANS OF PRESTONA SONNERT AND EULOGIZED TIE AC

I DE VORED MENSION.

CONCERNING INE SOVIET UNION, ADZELBEY BEI

I COVERAMENT HAD PARES IN PLACING TOO GREAI AN IMPEASES 01

PERE WIE TOO LITE SOUGEE OR EFFORT FOR INE AGRICULTAR

CP. TRE POPILATION.

DOI IN GENERAI..

ADZUZZY EMPRASIZED THAT MAMBORS CI LET EN

SCIONTY AN EIRAL SOULD MAKE CREATE ENTORIS 30 CO

ZION 20 LEARN MORE ABC.. CEATLAND AND IS PROPLE.

THIS

JOSE AND MORE COMPREFRNSIVE EXPORTING ON LOGAE CONDTIZONS

WAGER, SE STATED, THAT SONE CONTACTS MAY VON ACREE WEE

ZILE PEILOSOPEY - IRA ARE MANY ONEER AREAS ON MEICE IN:

RE SOVIES SIOULD Z2/27 VORE ABOUT LEATLAND, BUT TI

DOC

9901

PUB

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

NO FORZICA DISSOM

0823/508,95?

ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL OF THE

MINISTAY OF TORE:ON

O WAS ASSIGNED TO MONITOR ADZHUBEYS ACTIV

THES GORING-

Mis viS

BAYOOK TROY 24 NOVEMBEr THROUGH 3 DECEMB* 1963, A27/VEEY: 26

SEVER 41

SONFERENCES. AND HAL PRIVATE

SOUERNNENT OFFICIALS:

DURING THESE

DISCUSSINS, ADZ"-BRY

FOLLOWIE COMMENTS-

•SEATO

NATO, ANT •ENTO ARE USELESS.

THESE

ANI-

ZATIONS DO NOT

3510%.

AND IF 4/00

WAR: SHOULD BLA

T, ENE BUS DOLLO DEST WOR

THING.

FASCISTS IN THE

UNITED STATES VERE RESPONDIS

THE DEATH OF EASIDENT KENNEDY.

TO HIS PREVID.S DISCUSSIONS WITH AN AMSA

JOHN STEINBECA

WERE

STIRRING UP THE INTERNA. POLITICAL

•IN: THE UNITIE STATES.

1^. ANSWER TC A QUESTION POSED TO HIM REGARDING

STRONGER SOVIET ACTION ON

3r.

THE LAO PROS: EM,

ADZHUBEY

THAT THERE IS ALSO TROUBLE IN BERLIN

SUED IF THE USSR CAN HELP.

SINCE THAILAND IS

VERT KONCERNED ABOUT CHINESE COMMUNIST

INTERVENT LON

I SOUTHEAST ASIA, ADZHUBEY ANSWERED,

''LEAVE CHINA

THE USSR.!

SECRET

NO FORETGN. DISSEM

i 1 0.147

---

## Page 4

13-00000

° Commento made by

Aleksey ADZHUBEY to

and Sons efficie

Copy of this doe is alo

leld at Chatl Archives,

available ori

to the public as a

declassified doc, recoverable

as item

LA of List LA

When slown to

the fleted.

report number

I the public

telesced ly Honcten Demo, See 22,72

---

## Page 5

13-00000

A GENCE ACING:

- tuities stalle in.

so Miles Dó condo De 1981 9866 1680:110

NO DARE MOST

XAAZ- 3641/

15101 / 64

lcd perror

sirensi

COUNTRY: PEAZZAND/USER

SULLECT

¿SPICIANS

A&PORTIO

DATE DISTR

NO: PAGES

REFERENCES

05. 2/663,9

15 JITUARi 10Si

Hui 17

DATE OF

iNFO.

RACE &

DATE ACC

2 1012-23R 1905

TALK

BAICSON

Be Far iS

TRIS iS UNEVAIVATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFININE

LOPRAISAL OF CONTE

SOURCE. .

3..:1. I - A EUROPELN BUSINESSMAN (3) WEO HAS OCCASIONAL CIOSE SCARANO "TIE

SOVIET ELOS IRADE AND GOVEFALENE OFFICIAIS

2225A OF CONTEN:

ADZHUSSY PROBALLY NADE LIE COMMENTS AS SEDORET

SCAN DOING: 30. AT 40E SOVER ANISSY, ASLY 2997624

YA-INED TOVADIT'S ERIN & OVIRIFZASIZINE INDUSTRY AI THE EXFINS

OF AGRICULTURE.

E TRIES IS SOVISE DETONATIC COCANITY DU PEEITS

ZEY SAID SAITO.

CENSO AD TAIO AIG USICIES,

THE DIRE i KES

TRE AS ADS, AN AS FATAN SHOLE GOATS GO CARE N

MISTER TENTAT IN PUGE PRESE COVERLEO OF SOVIDE EVENTE ME MI

EA RECES GOT GUVEN IN HIS BONOR AT SEE SOVINT ESASSY: 24 JECK, ON:

30 NOTEMER SOS, ARCELY AZUSDI, MADELEV FOICS ATD ALSIGHER'S.

SEN. IN-LAW

DUFIZIRD& SPIECE 10 SOVIST BLUS REPRESENTARIVES iS HID BEEN

ASKED TO STAY APTIS DEE RECEPERON.

AIGUREY SPRESSED DEDE PIRECT AND

NATIONAL REGRET AS DE DOMS OT PRESTONE SANDER AT PONCENE HIS EFFORTS

THESE COME LAP ENRICE EYRIGCEG CITY EASE PUSTRIAL

DErELLIGENTURITE TOO CELSEE TO 280 OR SETORE FOR WES AGRICE TURAL REOVIRE-

MENTIRE TE DO TATIONE

IS LED TO WI SORTAGE GE WREN IN PARTICULAR

LOZHUBEY BOT STD 200 INES OF THE SOMET DIPLOT

MATIC CURFINITE L LFCIAND SHOULE MARE CREATE BOTORRE TO CONTACT THILEGAL

POPULATION DO LAMEN YORE ABOUT CENTURND AND IS EROELEC TS WOULD RESULT

IN BETTERAND MORE COMPERESIVE REPORTING ON COSAT CUNDITIONS. IT DOES

NOTARITER, HE SPACED, MEND SOLE CONCACES MAY LOD ACRE IITH THE SOMET

NATIONALIE OSOPEY - IRITE ERE VARY OILET PEZAS ON NANCE RAPPORT

BASED, THE SOVIETS, SPOTLÜ LEARN NUTS 230J% SATAND, BUE IT IS EQUALLY

IMPORTANTESA THE DELA TO KNON THE SOVIONS BETTER.

IP/EDI

1B/MB

ABSTRACT

THOSE

PREPARE FOR SUING

CODE NO: (2. 3)

RYBAT REST. CODE

CABLE ICEN (1).

NFO (8)

FOR FLING

CLASSIFICATION CANCELED

1: nuthorit oi:.

CECilt. 1712/22182

Gile of baron making the change:

1310

7/10/33

201-0289248

RECORD COPY

PUB

la

---

## Page 6

13-00000

3:?

4A5 ASSIGNED TO MONITOR, ADZHUBES. ACT V

CC27 I ENCES ANC HAT PRIVATE OL0US5:0KC NT

'INT CFFICIALS:

DUR NG THESE DESOLUTIONS: 12"

rah:

* COMENTS-

SEATO

LAT RUS DO NCT S

¿ENTO ARE UST-E:

WORLD T

MA?. SHOULD BREA

UT, ONE B1.

THESE

AliD iF

MOULD DES. "

THING.

FASCISTS IN THE UNITED STATES WERE RESPEE:

THE DEATH OF

PARSIDENT KENNEDY

427H1

TO HIS PREVICES DISCUSSIONS " A Ai

JOHN STEIN 350X

NiHO REPORTES

SAID T

HERE

STIRRING j? THE INTER'A-

"LITICAL

?: THE UNITED STATES.

ANSWER TO & QUESTION POSED TO HIM RE ARCING

STRONTER SOVIET ACTION ON THE LAO PROBI EM, ADZHUBEY

PANTED OUT THAT THERE IS ALSO TROUBLE iN BERLIN.

WIEN ESTED IF THE USSR CAN HELP, SINCE THAILAND 15

VERY CONCERNED ABOUT CHINESE COMMUNIST INTERVENTION

SOUTYEAST ASIA, ADZHUBEY ANSWERED, "LEAVE CHINA

* Thie

CLASSIFICATION CANCELED

Name and titoo parion mising the change:

MAg.

7/ 11/73-

---

