# 104-10291-10021

## Page 1

104-10291-10021

SECRET

ATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OR CANCELLATION

OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

DATE

LE NORM

SE, CONTROL DIVISION, OP

15 APR 78

SS NUMBER

2205

CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION, OF

ALIN: SUPPORT

CHIEF, PCS/CSS (OPERATING COMPONENT FOR ACTION)

STAFF

EMPLOYEE NUMBER

1D CARD NUMBER

STATUS

SUBJECT

RET TREVENT (CTA)

STAFF

ESTABLISHEO

CONTRACT

OFFICIAL

COVER

CANCELLED.

UNIT

CONTINUED

KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER (SLOCK RECORDS)

BASIC COVER PROVIDED

EFFECTIVE DATE

PORRATIONAL COVER PROVIDEO

OTHER (SPECIE)

CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER (UNBLOCK RECORDS)

EFFECTIVE DATE:

BOD

FORM 3254

NOTA

(HE 20071

W-2 TO BE ISSUED

SUBMIT FORM GAR INMEGIATELY TON

CHANCE TELEPHONE

LIMITATION

SUBMIT FORM 643 IMMEDIATEL TO CHANGE, TELEPHONE

CATEGORY TO CATEGORY.

LIMITATION CATEGORY TO CATEGORY

(HH2120-7)

CARE 20-711

NA

EAAN

CATEGORY 1

CATEGORY

FORM 3254

Синв

20-200

RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO COS

ISSUED.

SUBMIT FORM 2688 FOR

GEHA

HOSPITALIZATION

CARD.

COVER

SUBMET FORM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS

CER 240-4

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS:

SLOCK

SUBMIT. FORM 1323

RESPONSIBILITYN

BUST REMAIN

SUBMIT FORM 2600 T08

REMARKS AND/OR COVER HISTORY

LIOP OF FILE

Subject will be acknowledged as CIA for entire

period of employment and is not to reveäl specific

places or locations of cover assignments.

SORTIFUTION.

СорУ a :

- CO/TRE OR COO CONTROL

OPERATING COMPONENT

COPY 4- 00/00/TF9

298M/ 551 DE PRevious Corsica

SECRET

E2. IMPDET CL. BY 021964

---

## Page 2

MATERIAL REVIVED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STATT MEMBERS

FILE TITLE /NUMBER/ VOLUNE:_

DRE - 1959-64

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

copiele

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEVED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE DE REVIEWING OFL

---

## Page 3

SECRET

REPRODUCTION MASTERS

SECRET

OR CANCELLATIO

KSTOP

BIOCRAPHIC PROFILE

WIth

Caro

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECERT

REGRODUCLION MASTERS

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE

Bendle Wile cere

SECRÉT

---

## Page 5

REGRES

SECURITY INPORMATION

MORANDIM FOR THE FILE OF:

FROM: office of the Personnel Director

• On 5 June 195

this office arranged with bational

elective Servico Headquarter

to have the above-named subject is activa

duty orders cancellod.

Thus action was taken because, due to his train-

ing and experience, it was felt that the subject would be of more service

to the United States as an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency

than he would be as a member of the Armed Forces.

2. Should the subject resign or otherwise be separated from CT,

please notify thia office innediatoly in onder that this cancollation

actton may be revoked and the subject will be made a free agent.

GEORGE E, MOTOON

Acting Personnel Diractor

To the 1eo eS 30(0) o- 10LO)

Office of the Personnel Director notified on

the subject has resigned or otherwise been separated tron CLe

that

(Signature

ДЕЗДЕЗ

SECURTET, ENFORMATION

---

## Page 6

SECRET

I an avore of the fact that the Centrul Intelligence Agency,

by reason of the sensitive nature of its work, must observo very

strict security moasures. I agree to honor the requeste of CIA

relative to my application whether it be accepted or rejected. I

agrod not to inform anyone that I am boing considered for a poss-

tion in CIA. If questioned directls, I will say that I have appliod

for positions in vartous goverment agencies, and if pressed for an

ansvor will acknowledge that CIA is one of them but will attach no

particular sigaificance to such application. I agree not to dis-

closo personnel procedures I hate obsorved in CIA. I agree not to

disougs by name or otherviss, any individuals with whon I havo

talkod in the course of ny application to CIA.

Signca:

SECRET

---

## Page 7

OR STULS

CONFLENTIAL

EVALUATION LAD RECOMMENDATIONE (BE COMPLETE AND CLUSTIFY DECISIONS, NOTE ANY UNFAVORABLE CIRGUMSTANCES.)

the she be due mis fam

7 kill

lupe. Le mante a job en

las

gout attaugh la

salarica are lameted ps are duiceune ete a

compased to pricato industry de armst

I he young but nat as youns as be acher

Hunt Phan and dyich has worked ta

ease time work, fraks

Vatin Aneser (El Salades) end bel pedested prou

starting belong was 3000, but so lesten

FORMS GIVER:

at a

glan

MEDICAL

RESERVE

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

REPORT OF INTERVIEW

THIS DATE

DATE OF E IRTI

SALARY E QUESTED

ERICATION NI SCHOOLS

me to US in 193

GENOR BERTE

NO. OF DE PENDENTS

TNTERVIEVER

DECREESE DATES, MAJORS, EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIEST

Z жа

MAJOR DIPLOTHERT HISTORY

(PRINCIPAL OCCUPATIONALS PECIALI SKILES, SALARY LEVELS)

MILITARY OCCUPATIDR

(RANK,

SERIAL NO, DATES OF SERVICE, DUTIES AND AREAS)

DES AL

IQ.

931

37-127

CONFIDENTIAL

(4-111

---

## Page 9

REPORT OF ENTERVIEW

103

CFO

VIA:

lane of Candidate

Position Considored for Alla

Personall

Dignified......

appearanco

Nel1-groomed...

Natural,

Te orviewer

Mide-Aweko...-

Clean..

vard. ...

Inpressive....

Stolid..

Tenily...

Ordinary.

Forsonality

Persuasive.....

ignificant

Importuroable..

Responsi vo

Choertul.......

Steady...

pourp. ..

ES

Libable

straight forwar

Tranquil

De, leatod.

Liodest.........

Rosorved,

Doninant......

Complacent

Confident.

Conorited..

Subiel ssivo..

Is acuontion adequate? Ter(I/Ho() Is languago coollity adoquitar Tos(L) No()

Ares moniedge

and noted in

Len Ancia Flet Spanid

Previoue irtolligenoc or related exporionce Mone

salary level roquestod a

Lowest Salary Acceptablo D

-----.

GENERAL, RECOMMENDAR TOM :

1. Candidate is not roconnended for employnent. Reasons:

2- candidate LE rocomonded for employmonts Justification

nativitem, percences

Bukeme

SPECIFIC RECOMENDATION for employments

Position, Anis ClerK

Locatian,

Branch/

Salary Level +Z3/00

BOOOM DAT TOM as to potontial value of candidate to the orge ization in other

then the podition immodiately under considorations After Sutshe

трих

---

## Page 10

SECRET

(When Filled In)

REQUEST FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE

OpE Officer

LOCATION CITY EXATE COUNTIE!

MAX OR APPLICANT

42055

23 June 1966

1929

95-13

ATTACHMINTE

ЧЕХаРдИИ ВТАТИВ

POSTION NUMERN IRa)

SIONMENT CERIGHDINIIOR

DDP/ WH

CONSE. SA

IRANTRY

TIPE OF ASSIONMENT AND PUNDI

RAS FOR INDICATE HAME OF POOL OR GROUPI

Covert Security Clearance

PASONAL HISTORY STATRARNT

APPENDIX!

APPENDIE I

ARQUEST FOR WAIVER

MERENT OF INTERVIEW

HDOTRO. & FUND (80)

ЛОСКРАЛИ ЯКу:

VET PHER, & HEX (BA)

Security: 50514

Case Officer:

6 032

Clearance Memo to SA/Branch/CPD

Atta:

5 E, 69

*7170

SPACE BELOW FOR

USE ONLY

FORM.

377

SECRET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

then Filled in)

REQUEST FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE

VAME LAI

ASSTONMENT (Office, Division, Pranch)

TYPE OFIAPPLICANT

REGULAR STARI

CONTRACT TYRET

CONSULTANT

MATARY

PE OF ASSIGNMENT AND FUNDS

H93

AITACHMENTE

PHS

APPENDXIT

PHOTOS!

TERANS STATUS!

MALE-VETERAN

MALE-NON-VETERAN

NVITES CLEARANCE REQUESTED

REPORT ON

INTERVEN

CLEARANCE REQUIRED

NAME OF REQUESTER

PROVISIONAL FIORI

THEN LONEL

REQUEST NO. IT OT

03407

REQUEST DATE (ORTI

YEAR OF BIRTH (29930)

RECRUIT. REON. NO. (31-33)

SUB-CATEGORY CODE (a6)

IF OTHERIE PECIFY ONCOR, GOOE (97,421

GRABE (4T44)

REQUEST FOR

ORAN, CODE 1049)

WAIVER

TYPE OR APPUICANT 249)

FE POCARTERS (50)

CLEARANCE REQUIRED (SI

RECRUITERIS CODE (52-94)

METREG A SEXIES

OR- MIL FERVICE. (a)

LAST DIGIT ORON, CODE 07)

REON: NO. 172-741.5

RECRUITS SOURCE (78-79)

SPACE BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY OS ONLY

APPROVAL GRANTED

DIUFROVISIONAL

• INVITEE

THIS IS NOT A CLEARANCE FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, MATERIAL

OR SECURE AREAS

A BUILDING BADGE OR ACENCY CREDENTIAL IS NOT TO BE

ISSUED AT THIS TIME.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

CHIEF PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION

-OFM

M77 O9SOUETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

---

## Page 12

«PAY ADSLSTHENT IN ACCOFCANCE WITH THE FROVISICNSOEF SECTICA 5305 CF

TITL FIS- UUS-CU

AND EXECTIVE ORDER 11941 FURSLANT TO AUTHORITY OF

DOI AS PROVICED IN THE CIA ACT CF 1545, AS AMENDEED AND DET

DIRECTIVE DATED B CCTOBER 1962.*

EFFECTIVE DATE OFFAY ALJUSTRENT: 1C CCTEBER 1976

NAME

SERIAL CRON- FUNDS GE-STEP

37325V CS 054

NEh

SALAFY

137,167

---

## Page 13

436:06 /30/77

AERIAL NUMEER

2 NAME LAST

3I NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

M TO V

rUNOS

CFITO MI

•. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

000/CMS

IN OSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER D CH

A CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS LOT CIG

IGS

1E REMARKS

SECRET

(Whan Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

MITO OF

er to cr

4 ELECTIVE DATE IS, CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

42/29 77

MD NSCA

BRESC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

1020 80c8

10002

10, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

WASH- D.C.

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136-01

2. POSTION NUMBER

F$63

16 GRADE AND STEF

TSL CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

DYB

I MARY ORIRATE

SIGNATURE OR-OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

3UJun 27

FRA

SECRET

MPDET CL BY 007622

---

## Page 14

PLF 083077

SECRET

(When Filled in)

OCR

SERIAL NUMBER

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

ZE NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLES

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

1 ERRECTIVE DATE

MO.

08. 28

7. FAN AND NECA

S CATECORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

RINDS

CE TO Y

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

V TO CE

CE TO CF

BICS OR OTHER LÉGALIAUTHORIN

7020 0008 0002

30 USC 403 J

10, TOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

ODO/OFFICE OF DEFUTY DIRECTOR FOR OFERATIONS

ASST DEP /DER-OFERATIONS/DEVELOFMENT

NON-DEFICIAL COVER STAFF

REFERRAL BRANCH

LE POSITION FITTE

WASH.+ D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

OFS OFFICER CH

FCLASSFICATION SCHEDULE (CS, LB, Bic)

1S SERVICE DESIGNATION

S. OCCUPATIONAL SERTES

FS63

A GRADELAND STEP

DYB

17U SALARY OR RATE

TO REMARRS

0156.01

15|4

37167

PACITOR 20. Employ 2T. OFFICE CODING

CODE

Code

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

NUMERIC

AIRHABETIC.

2 COON NOCREE

cong

25 PATE OF BIRTH

57

124 Hagher

110

Code

30125

ODDO

3013

28. NTE EXPIRES

PA SPECIAL

MONDA

130

REFERENCE

HETIREMENT CATAL

S1 SEPARATION

132 Cor

DATA CODE

ZA DATE OF GRADE | 22: DATE OFIRS

$ 34 SEX

SET VEE PREEKENCE DESSERY. COMP, DATE FY, TONGI

HeRP

EOD

DATA

ATTH INSURATICER

TREALTH INSECODE

HO SOKIL SECORIN NOT

AI PREVIOUS CIVILLAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

CODER

O- NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

NO AREAK A FERVICE

2 BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 PRSO

LAN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 VASS

STATE TAX DATA

"FORM EXECUSED

SIGN

FROM: CMS

11s0

574 Mis 10%4

Use Previous

Edition

N2021

DME

ER IMPOET CL BY 0070:

---

## Page 15

ил климененноо

SERIAL NO

NAMER

ORGANIZATION

FUNDS

S. LWOP HOURS

OID SALARY RATE

Grade

Lost Ef: Dote

30 125

de Step]

NEW SALARY RATE

Salary

EPRECTIVE DATE

TYPE ACTION

WeT losi

ADI.

ES 1514 $39.789

05/23476 55 13 5 340.555

0S/21/7 B

MESTFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE

DATE

77/3/78

17 4-4

NO EXCESS INOR NOI

IN PAY STATUS AT ENDI OR WAITING PERIOD

LEWOR STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIGO

GLERKS

Usel

10-73 560₴

editione

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

49AD

WEND

1451)

A1 1

L04 100 020

*PAY AGJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305

OF

TITLES U.SOC- AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 12010 PURSUANT TO AUTHOR 2TY

AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED A AND OCI

DIRECTIVE CATED 8 CCTOBER 1962-*

ЛАМЕ

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: GS OCTOBER 1977

ID NUMBER

ORGe

ODDE

SCH-GR-STEP

GS

15.4

NEW

SALARY

539,789

8659

---

## Page 16

5 062878

SECRET

When Filed in)

DEFL

SERIAL NOLA

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

3 NATURE OF PERSONNE

RETIREMENT

RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY

AND CANCELLATION OF NSCA

SYSTEM

REGULAR

OSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

SE TO V

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONSI

or ta cr

PUBLIC

8020

DIO/OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION!

0008/0000 SECTION 23E (A)

1L0W 88-643

ASST DEP DIR-OPERATIONS/DEVELOFMENT

OPERATIONS

NON-OFFICIAL COVER STAFF

REFERRAL BRANCH

I POSITIONITITIE

WASH.• D.C

I POSITION NUMBER

OPS OFFICER CH

14 CLASSIFICATIONI SCHEDULE (IGS WG, AC

GS

REMARKS

12 SERVICE DESIGNATION

IS. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

FS63

IS GRADE AND STEP

DYB

17. SALARY OR RATE

15. 5

40995

CODE

45

28. NIE EXPIRES

Code:

10

NUMEKIC)

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

22. STATION!

INTEGREE

CODE

coDe

(24 HAGIrE 25, DATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADEN 27 DATE OF LEIN

мо.

35. VET PREFERENCE

CODE:

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

RETIREMENT SATA

NEPARATION!

020

TATA CODE

- NONE

OCL0000

DESERV, COMP DATE(37, LONG. COMP, DATE SE CARFER CATEGORY

Cancellenion Data

EOD DATA

33. SECURITY

34 SEX

REQ, NO.

10, PT

PREVIUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

CODE

O NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

NO BREAK IN SERVICE

2 SNEAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN E YEST

•GREAR IN SERVIGE MORE THEN S TRS)

MAR

FELT / HEALTH INSURANCE

HEATH INS CODE

4O, SOCIAL SECURITY NO

FORM EXECUTED

R- NO.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

NOT TAX EXERPTIONS

KORN EXECUTES

SLATE TAX DATA

LODE I NO

REVELATE COT

2 - NO

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

1150

5-74 Mig 10-72

Uae Previous

Edition

SECRET

E2 IMPOET

BY 007622

(4-51)

---

## Page 17

SECRET

28 Aрт1] 2960

(Date)

MUMORANDUM POR: Chief, Records and Services Division

Office of Personnel

SUBJECO

Cover arrangenents a

antes, have heen completed

for the above named subject.

Effective

medie telri

it is requested

that your recorda be properly (blocked) (repares) to (deny) (acinoriodeo

subfect's current Agency employment by an extergel daquirer.

3. This nemotendun confirms an oral request of 15 April 1960,

(Date)

(Room)

107005

/Chier, Central Cover Branch

THIS MEMO MUST REMAIN

ON TOP OF FRIE

SECON

---

## Page 18

SECRET

F13e No. 2205

13 July 1961

MEMORANDOM, EOR:

SUBJECT.

Chief, Records and Services Division

Officer of Personnel

1.4

Cover arrangements akactr

pleted for the above-named Subject

been con

2.

Effective 10 July 1961

-, it 15 requested that your

records be properly blocked unaxar to dery armerE Subject s

current Agency employment to an exterpal inquirem

3. Тоба поно

Acting Chi

entrel

Cover

поям

05391580a

METO TASTE

TOP OF I A

01. 186/

---

## Page 19

TO:

(check)

REF:

SUBJECT

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTAN

MENT OR CANCELLATION

OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

X

CHIEF, RECORDS AND CONTROL

CHLOR, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION

CHTEr, OPBRATING COMPONENT (For action

C/VE/Support

14 4рк 70

FILE NUMBER

EMPLOYEE NUMBER

ID CARD NUMBER

BACKSTOR ESTABLISHES.

DISCONTINUED

PEFICIAL

COVER

UNIT

KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

(OPM 20-800= 11)

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER BLOCK RECORDS

HEMPORARILY FOR

EFFECTIVE DATE COB

DAYSI

CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER UNBLOCK RECORDS

COPM 20- 100-112

DATE GAS OF COR

CONTINUING AS OF /006 BOD

SUBMIT

132902207

-ORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.

SUBMIT

(BAR 20-9) 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATECORY.

ASCERTAIN THAT

20-22)

ME PEING ISSUED

RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO CCS.

SUBMIT FORM 1322

COVER.

(HR- 210-20)

FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK - FOR CCS INTERNAL USE ONLYI

SUBMIT FORM

1323 FOR

RSPONSIBILITY

(HR-1240-20)

TRANSFERRING COVER

SUBMIT

FORM 2688

FOR HOSPITALIZATION CARD

Dec

Jun

Jun

Jul

Her

Jul

Sep

Jtal

52.

56

58

60

61

66

67

Jua

52

Jun

Jul

Mar

vul

60

AuE

61

66

Jun

67

Feb

70

omestic)

одев сісл

ISTRIBUTION:

COPY PEACO

2 - DEGRATING COMPONENT

200/09

OLIDELAVE

ces

SAM 155115159100

SECRET

ENTRAL COMES STARE

---

## Page 20

LML: 15 JAN 73

OCF

SERIAL NUMBER

2. NAME LAST FIRST MIDOLES

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

CANCELLATIONI OF

FUNDS

X

M TO VI

CF TO VI

P ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP WH DIVISION

BRANCH 6

CA SECTION

IT POSTION TILE

OPS OFFICER

14. CLASCIRICATION SCHEDULE (OS CaNte

18. REMARKS

GS

SECRET

(Wien Fled In

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Mto cr

CF TO CF

IS. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

9136.01

4 ELECTME DATES, CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MO.

91L 15. 73

REGULAR

I Financel Andiyan No Chargedoll e, ESCIOR OTHER LECAL AUTHORITY

3235. 0620. 0000

IP LOCATION OF OTAL STATION

50 USC 403 J

WASH., D.C.

12, POSTICH NUMBER

1S SERVICE DESIGNATION

1005

MAJ GRADE AND STEF

D

BE SALARY OR RATE

14 5

26168

18 ACTION 2O.

Code

37

2E INTE EXPIRESH

MO.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFFICE CODING

hom arine

А РНАВЕЛОН

CODE

2S DATE CELINTR

514801

75013

29: SPECIAL

REFERENCE

RETINEMENT DATAP

3T SEPARATION 32, Correction / Cancillotion Data

DATA CODE

E6, DATE OF GRADEN 27 DATE OF LE!

MO.

93. SECURITY

REG. NC

34. SEX

EOD DATA

35.

VET. PREFERENCE:

CODE

36, SERV. COMP DATE OZ: LONG. COMP DATE "

38. CAREER CATEGORY

CAR

CODe

39.

CODE

FEGLI/ HEALTH INSURANCE

O. WAIVER

HEARTH INS, CODE

4O. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

CODE

2-10 PI

PREVIOUS GIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

D-NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

2-SXCAX IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 TAS.)

J-BREAX IN SERVICE (MORE THAN E YRS)

42. LEAVE CAT.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED CODE

NO, TAX EXEMPTIONS

STATE TAX DATA

VORM EXECUED

1. YES

AX STATE CODE

SIGNATURE OP OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POBIRD

40/6.2731

Use Frovious

SECRET

(When Filled In

PORTED BE THE STANDARD DEO STER COMPARI. U

---

## Page 21

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH S U.S.C• 5305 AND EXECUTIVE ORDER

11691 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DET AS PROVICEO IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,

AS AMENDED, AND DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 08 OCTOBER 1962-*

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 07 JANUARY 1973

EPTROSIVE DATE OF PAT ADJUSTHERT CORREGARD TROK

JAN 1975 8O 2 OCT 1972 UNDER BAROUSIVE CAPER

NAM E

AMIT. SERIAL PORCH. FUNDS CR-STE

S1 480 V

GS: 14-5

NEW

SALARY

$26, 168

"PAY

ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 OF

TITLES, U.S-C. AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11739 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DOI

AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949% AS AMENDED, AND DCT DIRECTIVE

DATED OB OCTOBER 1962-*

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 14 OCTOBER 1973

NAME

SERIAL

ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP

51: 480 V

GS 14 5

NEW

SALARY

$27,479

---

## Page 22

Serial No.

GO 14

OLD SALARY RATE

LOM EX DoL

128,287|

12-09-73

Srode

09 14

Got Caster Nume

51 480

NEW SALARY RATE

Selory

Citective Dale

$29,095

0R-03-74

LWOP Hours

LURE ACTION

ADI.

QUA UTTY STER INCREASE

DATE: 38, JANUARY 1974

PAY CHANCE NOTIFICATION

(451)

WH

SERIAL NO.

G-43

ORGANIZATION

51/480

FUNDS

OLD SALAEY RAI

NEW SALARY SATE

122479

23,282

CERTIECATION AND ALTHENTICATION

1 CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEFTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE

SIGNATI

DATE

5. LWOP HOURS

TYPE ACTION

ADJ

MIAROVISION

16 30*73

XI NO EXCESS WORD

X] IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WATINO PIROO.

LEWOR STATUS AT END OF WATING PIRIOD

CLERKS INITIALS.

560 E

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

ADBL

---

## Page 23

DMS A 36 AUG 74 5

SECRET

(Wang Fillad in)

lOCF

SERIAL NUMBER

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

EFECTVE DATE

REASSIGNMENT

PUNDS

X TO V

CE TO V

N TO CH

43124174

7 FAN ANDINSCA

7J ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNI

522114117

I0, LOCATION OF OPFICIALSTATION

DDO/PS

CAREER

MANAGEMENT GROUP

NON OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH

AREAS SECTION

TE. POSITION TIME!

WASH., D.C.

I POSTION NUMBER

ORS OFFICER

T2, CLASSIPICATION SCHEDULE (GS, (9, *ic.)

RE OCCUPATIONAL, SE PILE

IN SADE AND STEP

18. REMARKS!

GS

2136.21

14 7

3. CATEGORY OF EMPIOYMENT

REGULAR

3. COC OR OTHER LEGAU AUTHORTY

51 USC 403 J

IT SERVICE DESIGNATION

17I SALARYTOR RATE

29/95

HOME PASE: IMH

Cobe Lolay 122

7 NTE EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFNCE CODING

97625

RONNAI

* COON

24 моста

IS DATE OF BUTM

PS

75113

RETIREMENT DATA

7 DATE OF GRADEI

29 78 OR TET

DRA COGN

sorrectiny cancellation wate

33.

SECURITY

REG. NO

M. SEX

35. VET. PREFERENCE

LOD DATA

36. SERV. COMF DATEI

137. LONG. COMP, DATE!

I CAREER CATEGORY

FEGUT / HEATH INSURANCE

нелли іне 500k

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

SODE

REVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENTI SERVICE

NO NOT PIEVIOUS MEANICE

2- MAK IN SINCE IS DANTS)

* DESK IN SERVICE ON THAN A TENJ

CLEAVE CAT.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

NO. TAX EXEMPTION:

STATE TAX DATAI

2- NO

2 - NO

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHCNTICATION

FROME

POSTED

187226

FORM

1150

Use Previous

SECRET

E 2 IMPOET CL BY 007622

---

## Page 24

FOR PURPOSES OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT, AS AMENDED

YOU ARE DESIGNATED EXEMEL•

EFFECTIVE DATE OF DESIGNATION: O1 MAY 1974-

*PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 OF

TITLE S, US-C- AND EXECUTIVE ORDER

11811 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI

AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND DOI DIRECTIVE

DATED 08 OCTOBER 19620**

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ACJUSTMENT: 13 OCTOBER 1974

NAME

SERIAL ORGN- FUNDS GR-STEP

37 325

6S 14 7

NEW

SALARY

530, 699

---

## Page 25

SERT 75 N

SECRET

When Siled in?

IAL NUMBER

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

NAME LAST ARST MIDDLE)

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT- CHANGE OF

FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY

VITO M

FINDS

CHITO M

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

EFECTIVE DATER IS CATECORY OF EMPLOYMENT

108 13775

Mira cr

CF TO CF

6221 0117 0000

TO LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

REGULAR

e OSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

50 USC 403 J

ODO/PLANS STAFF /CAREER MANAGEMENT GROUP

NON OFFICIAL

COVER BRANCH

AREAS SECTION

1L POSITON TITLE

OPERATIONS OFFICER

TA CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE ES, E, GOIN

I OCTRATIONAL SERIES

GS

I REMARKS

9136.01

WASH., D.C.

ROSTON NUMBER

8:12

CRADEAND STEP

14. 7

13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

DOS

I SALARY OR RATE

30699

CODE

37

10

28. NYE EXPIRES

MORAI

DA

37325

29. SPECIAT

REFEPENCE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

O2 STATIONI

COOK

ENTECTRE

FS

CoRa

75013

30 REUREMENT DATA

cons

3T SEPARATION 132. Correction / Cancellation Datc

DATA CODE

SEINVEY. PREFERENCE

COD:

36. SERVE COMP: DATE 57, LONG, COMP DATE 36. CAREER CATEGORY

2 -010 Рт.

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN COVERNMENT SERVICE

CODE

O-HO PRIVIOUS SERVICE

I - NO BALAK IN SERVICE

BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YRST

3: BARAK IN SERVIEE MORE THAN D YES)

CARI

42. LEAVE CAR

CODE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

MO TAX EXIMITIONS

2 - NO

SIGNATURE CIR OTHER' AUTHENTICATION.

26. DATE OF GRADE

17E DATE OF LET

EOD DATA

FEGUTY HEALTH INSURANCE

HEALTH INS CODE

BOO SECURITY 134 SEX:

REO, NO.

NO, SOCIAL SECURITY NO

FORM EXECUTES!

YES

STAVE TAX DATA

COS TOMX SAT COM

FORM

1150

874 Mta 10-74

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

POSTED

985:

E2 IMPDET CL BY 007922

---

## Page 26

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 OF

TITLE TLE U.S. C.

AND EXECUTIVE CRDER 11883 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF

DCI AS PROVIDED

IN THE CLA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED AND DCI

DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962-*

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 12 OCTOBER 1975

NAME

SERIAL ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP

37 325

GS

147

NEH

SALARY

$32, 231

---

## Page 27

CHIN: 1109 MAR

17.6

1 CE

SERIAL NUMBER

2. NAME TASTE

I MATURE CHIPERSON

NEACHON

REASSIGNMENT AND

DELEGATION OF NSCA

RINDS

Y TO y

CF TO V

IM TO CE

CATo cr

ANILAVE NAL DESIGNAT

PDO/PS

CAREER MANAGEMENT GROUP

NON OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH

EEN POSTION TITLE

OPERATIONS OFFICER DCH

TI CUESIFICATION SCHEDULE (OS, LORIE)

1% OCCUPATICNAT SERIES

GS

IN REMARKS

M236.g1

SECRET

(Whar Flied in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1 EFFECTIVE ONTO

3. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

031.81

176

7 FAN AND NSCH

6221 9117

19002

NO LOCATION OF OPPICIAL STATION

REGULAR

A CIG OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

58 USC 402 J

WASH.. D.C.

A MOSITION NUMIDER

FS63

16, GRADE AND SIR

1407

E3. SERVICE DESIGNATION

20S

IT SALARY ORATE

32251

600N 2 5

ploy. 1 21.

28. NIE EXPIRES

OFFICE CODING

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

COOLON ONLONEL

6010 A

77325

SPECIAL

KEFERENCE

PS

75425

RETIKEMENT CATA

2 SEPARATIC:

ATA COO

CODE

SEE DARE ON GRADE

27 DATE OF LET

14 VET PREPLRENCE

COCk

SERG

* SERV COME DATE

7. LONG, COMP DATE

SE CARTER CATEGORY

34 Sex

EDO DATA

coot

SEOUL, HEALTH INSTRANGE

HEARTH NO CODE

NO, SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

PREVIOUS CIVILTAN OOVEPNMENT SERVICE

P- NO MIEVIOUS STAVICE

ANU THAN PE SEAVICA

*- SAGAR IN SERICE LESS THAN 3 TIS

-SEEM MINCE MORE MAN 3 T8S)

FEDERAL TAX DATA

1 0 4 138

NO, TAX EXEMPIRES

STATE TAX DATA

2- NO

TOM DUCUTO

2 - по

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

MAR 10

FORM

1150

9-72 M/d: 6-73

Use Previous

Edition

E2 IMPOET CL BY 067627

SECRET

CONCE

---

## Page 28

2 NAME (LAST FIEST MIDOLE)

WINE CROONNE

PROMOTION-CHANGE OF FUNCTIONAL

V. TO VI

RINDS

MITO CH

CF TO V

CE TO CE

POIGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

SECRET

• (When Filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

I ERECTIVE DATE

I AN AND NSCA

TO CArON Or ON SION

CAVECIONY OF EMPOPMENT

HER USE LAZIN

PDO/PLANS STAFF

CAREER MANAGMENT GROUP

GOERICAL COVER BRANCI

I CASINCTION SCHEDULE POSTE DESE CERT OCCUPATIONAL SENES

4156021

I REVICE DESICNATICN

I SORT OR RATE

TO CRADE AND SER

-15.4

22

101 P

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFFiCE CODING

22 STATION

INTEGREE

NUMERIC

37201

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

25/0

RETIREMENT DATA

COOE

ANA COOL

SO TED GRADER

TYPE

LOD OAT

33 VEL. PREFERENCE

D6, SERV. COMP DATE

37. LONG. COME DATE

SE, CAXEER CATEGORY

COOL

20.

coDe

FROL A HEATH INSURANCE

ЧЕЛИ INS 0O0E

PREVIOUS CIVILAN COVERNMENT SERVICE

cobe

42: LEI

AVE CAT

SODI

TEDERAL TAR DATA

COCk

LI NO PRAE N SAVIET

3- BICAR IN MIKVICT LASS DUN SVIS T

T SEAT IN MARICE MORE THAN 3 1BY

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

2 DATE OF LET

* 15 NO

21 7.

M, SEX

* SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

STATE TAX DATA

FORM

11150

8. 72 Mr 6-73

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

POSTED

157 2

82 IMPDET CL. BY 007627

---

## Page 29

SECRET

When Filled in

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

3. NATURE OF PERSONNE

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS

9. ORGANIZATIONAD

DESICNATIONS

LOC/CMS

Mito de

COO/CHS/NOCB/REFERRAL SECTION

LA ENSIVE CAT

ES CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

119 01|76

FAR AND ACE

TEESE OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITE

7221 0008 0002 1

TO, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

KASH-+ D-C-

HI POSITON TITLE

OPS OFFICER D CH

TA CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE CAME MON

TS, REMARKSI

T2 POSITION NUMBERT

FS63

T5. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136-01

16 GRADE AND STER

15

CHANGE OF SERVICE DESIGNATION FROM DOB TO DYB

IS CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

DYB

ME SALARY OR RATE

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Use Previous

SECRET

1E2 IMPDET CL. BY 007622"

(4-51)

---

## Page 30

IPAY

ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL

69-301

PURSUANT

TO AUTHORITY OF DOT AS PROVIDED IN THE

CTA ACT 0F 1949%

AS AMENDED, AND A-DCI POLICY DIRECTIVE DATED E OCTOBER 1962,*

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 10 OCTOBER 1965

NAME

SERIAL

ORGN. FUNDS GR-STER

51 0751

OLD

NEW

SALARY

SALARY

GS 13 3 5120915 5133801

П Tate

NO EMEL

AUN 23 12:22 PM 65

Cort Centee Numbe

37G

tWOP Hours

DID SALARY RATE

Grode

54,073

NEW SALARY RATE

Salary

Electre Date

TYRE ACTION

PSI

ISE

ADI

6S 13. 2. 322,495

06/21/61 05 13 3 512.918

06/20/65

aike and aurantication

I NO EXCESS. LHOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERTOD

LHOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS KW

M AUDITED BY

I CERTIFY THAT THERWORK OFITHE

ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE,

SIGNATUREI

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

+ 13 Goul 6S

560 men ch

(4-5T)

---

## Page 31

RZE, 28 0FC 65

QCE

1. SERTAL NUMBER

12. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

J NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS

→ ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DOP/WH

PLANS & OPERATIONS STAFO

SECTION B

IT. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

1 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (ES, LN, MIC)

18. REMARKS

SECRET

(When Filled In

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

425041

IF 10 CE

BECTIVE DATE

TS. CATEGORY DF EMPLOYMENT

12 / 19|65

7. COST CENTER NO, CHARGEXHLE

6235. 0629. 0000

IN LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

REGULAR

8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

50. USC 403 J

IS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

$136.01

WASH. • D.C.

TE POSITION NUMBER

90+6

18. BRADE ANZISTEN

1313

TI SERVICE DESIGHATION

D

17. SALARY OX RATE

13380

19. вст1ок 70.

CODE

templar.

Code

37

10

AL ATE EXPIRES

21..

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFFICE CODING

NUMERIC

2 STATION I INTEGREE

25 DATE OF STRIPT

01975

CODE:

Come

29. SPECIAL

WH

30,

COpe

125013

REFERENCE

RETIREMERT DATAN

coDE

31 SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32, CORRECTION/ CAMCERLATION DATA!

26 DATEN OF GEADE

27, DATE OF LET

3S. VET. PREFERENCE

CODE

- NONE

16. SERV, COMP DATE

EOD DATA

13 SECURITY ERISEX

REQ. HO

37. LONG. COMP. DATE

2S. CAREER

CATEGORY

CAR.

CODE

PROV

FREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

• NO PREVIOUS SENVICE

1E NO BREAK IN SERVICE

1 BREAK IN SERVICK LESS THAN 3 URSV

3 BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS)

SE NAIVER

Mines

PARALTH INST CODE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

42: LEAVE CATI

COGE

FEDERAE TAX BATA

FORM EXECUTED

CODE

BUTES

12 - NO 1

STATE TAX DATA

CORM EXECUTED

CODE

POSTED

годм

11-62

1150

Use Previous

Eduion

SECRETI

Exclus ron antonabe

(When Filled

---

## Page 32

Serial Mo.

Cost Center Number

SPARMALARY MATE

Salary

LOM EM DRI

Grace

Stea

NEW SALARY RATE

salary!

431 в 82905

Machya Date

06-29-66 83-33|51 834258 06-19-66

QUALITY STEP INCAKASE

- Amens в.

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

TYRE ACTION

ADJ.

(4-51))

16529

---

## Page 33

ADJUSTMENT TO ACCORDANCE WITH

SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 89-504

TO AUTHORITY OF DOT AS

PROVIDED IN THE

CIA ACT OF 1949.

AS AMENDED. AND A-DOL DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962.0

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 3 JULY 1966

NAME

SERIAL

ORGN. FUNDS GR-STER SALARY

51, 075 V

GS 13 5 744-250

NEW

SALARY

S14,665

OLD SALARY RATEI

Grade

GS 13

523÷330

2 622.

B4 0D

Grades

Step

NEW SALARY MATE

Salary

CHen bate

06/20165 5S

1513,815 06/19/66

TYPE ACTIONI

ADI

NO EXCESSLMOM

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

AUDITED BY

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE:

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

SHOTS CAMELE

1451)

* 560E Mig 3-6

1606

---

## Page 34

PUH: 10 AUG 68

DEF

1, SERIAL NUMBER

2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ANITORI

RESIGNATION

FUNDS

10 Y

CE TOL VI

CE TO

17. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DOR WH

PLANS AND OPERATIONS STAFF

SECTION B

A POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (ES, LO, DIC),

IS OCCUPATTONAL SERIES I

Go

1E, LENARKS

9136.01

SECRET

(When Filled h.)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

LE ERRECTIVE DATE

MO.

07 1 30 66

7. COST CENTES NO. CHARGEABLE

7285

0620. 0000

10, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMERT

REGULAR

D. CSCIOR OTHER LEGAL AUTMORITY

WASH., D.C.

REPOSITOR HENDER

0646

A CRADE AND STEP

13 5

1, SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

IT SALARY OR RATE

14665

RACTION 20.

CODE

45

P3. KTE EXPIRES

Coda

10

SPACE BELOM FOR EXCLUSIVE USE CHINE PIECE OF PERSONNE

DEFICE CODINGT

22. STATION 12E. INTEGREE

DAMERIC

ALPHABEY PE

CODE

25 PATE OF BIRTH

MA DATE OF GRADE

CA. DATE OF LE

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

130:

-FICA

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

25. YET. FREFERENCE

COOR

A SERV, COMP, DATET

37 LONG COMP, DATE

31. SERARATION

DATA CODE

1820091

2S. CAREER

CATEGORY

She An eti

gone

3Z. COBRECITOR/CANCELLATION DATA

13. SECURITY EX. SEX

EOD DAZA

2+19 PT.

PREVIOUS GOVERHMERT SERVICE DATA

O. NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

L- NO BREAK IN SERVICE

A. ERSAKIN SERRICH LESS THAN 3 TREN

A BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN SYRS A

KOPE

FEELI / WEALTH INSURANCE

O. WAIVER

HEALT TUX, CODE

1O, SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

42. LEAVE CAT.

13.

CODE

VEREXAL TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED CODE

NO CAN EXEHPTIONS

44.

STATE TAX DATA

1. VES

2 - NO

NO TAX ERATECODE

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

FORM

11-62

1 1160

Use Previous

Edition

0821262

SECRET

Magraung and

---

## Page 35

10 AUG 66

SECRET

When Filled in

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER

F2. HAME (LAST-FIES TAIDOLE)

3, MATURE OF PERSONMEL ACTION

EXCEPTED APPT

CAREER

FUNDS

7. ORGAMIZATICNAL BESICNATIONS

DDP /WH

PROJECT ANNEX

WASH RIELD

POSITION TITTE

LA CAPECTIVE DATE

071

31 66

7. COST CENTER NO, CHARGEABLE

MIS. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

E. ESC OR OTRER LEGAL AUTHORITY

7135 0630 0000

TD. LOCATION DE OFFICIAL STATION

50, USC 403 J

OPS OFFICER

A. XEMARKS

IS. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

8001

16. CRADE AND STERI

13 5

13 SERVICE DESIGNATION

1Y SALARY OR KATEI

14665

IP. ACTION 3O. Emplay,

Code

POSTED ON

OF-4b

15 AUG 1966

13

IN ATE FINITES

DERICE КОЗТИС

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

12. STATICH 1

NUMERIC

O MIERICEI

KLPHABETIG

pope

20. Mager

A2 RATE OF STRTH

51800

Codel

WH

22 PEA

25033

DETIKEMERT DATA

31 TERRATION!

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION CANCELLATION DATA

126 DATE OF GRADE

мо,

DA.

09 23 63

35. VET. PREFERENCE

CODE

• MONE

SERV. COMP DATE

OD DATA

17 LONG. COMP

DATE

07

93/50 01

PREVIOUS GOVERNHENT SERVICE DATA

. NO PREYIOUS SERVICEI

LE NO ARCAX TA SERVICE

BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN S TEST

2. BABAK IN SERVICE MORE TRAN 3 2450

SCAREER CATECORY

02

52

CAR.

CADE

EREV

CODE

ZEMP

12. LEAVE CAT.

LODE

VENERAL TAX DATA

FOR REXECUTED, CODE

1- YES

NO. TAX EXEXPTIONS

8

2- 10

FECKI / HEALTH INSURANCE

O- WAIVER

HEALTH DAS, CODE

27 DATE OF TEN

ко.

99

181,

66

33, SECURITY!

RED. NO!

80000

M1

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

STATE TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED

CORE

C-NO

LING STATE CODGI

SIGNATIED OR OTHER AUTHE-TUCATION

FORM

tr.62

23501

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

082046N

When Elled

---

## Page 36

BILE 12 MAY 62

SECRET

When Filled in)

&XR

D. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-HIDDLE)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

ДЕ ЛЕТИНЕ ОГ PERSONE ANI

DESIGNATION AS PARTICIPANT IN CIA

RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

FUNDS

Y TO V

VI TO CR

CH 101 V

P. ONBANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

CLOU

CATEGONY OF EMPIOYHENY

4197167

REGULAR

7 Frontial Andy No. ChargeablE. ASCIOR OTHER LECAL AUTHORITY

7135

0630 0000

DE, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STAFON

PL 88=643 SECT.

1:209

ĐDP ANH

11. POSITION TITLE

SERVICE DESICNATION

14: CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (OS, LE, DIL)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE ANDI STEP

D

17. SALARY OR BATE

18, REMARKS

THIS DESIGNATION.

EMPLOYEE WILL RECEIVE NOTIFICATION FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL OF

23

MA 7957

I9 ACTION!

CODE

21.

Code

SPACE BELOW FOH EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONIEL

OFFICE COPING

22: STATION

22 INTECHEE

CoDe

КОРЕ

23 DATE OF AIRTH

POSTED ON

DE-4h

26, DATE OF GRADE

22. DATE OF LET

ZA ATE EXPIRES

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

YR:

RETIREMENT DATA

STU SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

35 VET. PREFERENCEY

CODE

FOD DATA

33, SECURITY

REQ NO!

34. SEX

16 SERK. COME DATE

MA LONG. COMP DATEN

3E: CAREER CATEGORY

codel

FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE

HEALTH INS, COOK

10. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERAMENT SERVICE

O NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

- NO BREAK IN SERVICE

- PREAK IN SERVICE LESS

THAN 3 YRS:

4, BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3YRS)

42. LEAVE CAT

GROV

FEDERAL TAX DATE

FORM PRECUTES

CODE

44.

STATE TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED

NO, TAX PTATE CODE

SIGNATURE ON OTHER AUTLENTICATION

FORM

3.66

2150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

POSTED

BIT

051869N

(When Filled ta)

---

## Page 37

W: 13 AUG 67

ICB

ARIAL HAMBER TEZ KARE (LAST FIRST BIDOLE)

MATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS

CE TO V

9. ORGANIZATIONAR DESIGHATIONS

DOR

T1. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

M4. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (OX: 13 aK)

TE. REMARKS

SECRET

(Wien Filled Za)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

CRITO CE

4 EFFECTIVE DATE

3, CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

мо.

ON:

107 1 30 67

REGULAR

7 Francial AnGlysis No, Chargaable 18, CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

18129

0109

0000

IO. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

50 USC 403 J

19. ACTION 20, Employ

CODE)

Codel

37

19

28, NTE EXPIRES

3S. VET. PREFERENCE

FROM WH

5:66

WASH. D.C.

12 POSITION NUMBER

13, SERVICE DESIGNATION

13. OCEUPATIONAL SERIES

0203

INS. GRADE AND STER

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

Q136691

113.5

14665

POSED

/ 664

ON

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCUS VAUSE CE THE OFFICE O3 PERSONNEL

12 104

OFFICE LOOKE

F2 STATON FI ITECREE

HURRIC

ЛИНАНЕТИ

CODE

34: Kegins

25. DATE OF BIRTH

48620

DOD I

129: SPECIALS

303

75913

MET REMENT BATA

REFERENCE

ST SEPARATION"

DATA CODE

1Z. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

26. DATE OF GRADE

27. DATE OF LEI

33. SECURITY I34. SEXI

REQ. NO

SOD DATA

36. SERV COMP DATE SP, LONG COME BAIE

38. CAREER CATEGORY

CORE

CAN

PROV

Coac

FEGEI / HEALTH INSURANCE

O - WAIVER

HEALTH INS, GODE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

12. LEAVE CAT. /

-FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

FORM EXECUTED, CODE

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

i rest

4.

FORM EXACUTED

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

TAX STATEÇGOE

2 - BREAK IN SERVICE GESS THAN 3YRS)

3 FAREAX IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 TREN

124 NO

SICTATUSE OR OFFER AUFHENTICATION

POSTED

511402

2150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

Excluded tron atomatic

64-51.

When Falled

---

## Page 38

PLW:: 26 OCT: 67

SECREL

(Whea Filled ta)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1, SERIAL WUMEEX

2. HAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLES

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTICK

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS

V 10 V

Y 10 CE

CE 101 Y

CF TO CF

• ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DOP DOD

US

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS GROUP

WASHINGTON BASE

11. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE POSTLE, ar

TS. OCCUPATIONAL SERIEST

18. REMARKS

0136.01

4. EFFECTIVE DATE P

I S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

10

08

67

REGULAR

nancial Analyst No Chargeable TB CSE OR DIMER TEEAL AUTORITY

8129 0109 0000

Se USC 403. J

TO, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATIONI

WASH., D.C.

12. POSITION AUMBER

0416

NO GRADE AND STER

13 5

13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

17 SALARY OR RATE

14665

19. ACTION |20. Empiay.

CODE,

Code

37

28. NTE EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

21.

OFFICE CODING

22 STATION'

ALPMASETIC

cobe

23.

INTEGRECI

2S1 DATE OF BIRTM

CODE!

Code

43500

29. SPECIALI

REFERENCE

DOD

75013

30.

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

I SEPARATION

DATA CODEN

32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

28 DATE OF GRADE

27. DATE OF TRI

33. SECURITY:

REO, NO.

34. SEX

BOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE

136, SERV. COMP DATE

38. CARCER CATEGORYI

1390

FEGEL / HEALTH INSURANCE

40, SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

4.

cook

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN COVERNWENT SERVICE

O - NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

2: BREAK IN SERVICE ILESS THAN 3 YRSD

• • УКВАСИЙ ТЕЛИТИЕ (МОЙЕ ТНАХ SUYRS

22 LENNE CAT.

FEDERAL TAX DATAI

FORM EXECUTEE CODE

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

44.

FORM EXECUTER

STATE TAX DATA

coat

TAX STATE CODI

SION TUNE OR DIGER AUTFENTICATION

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

POSTED

1-21-62

clused from automatic

downgrating 201.

declassilication

(When Filled In)

---

## Page 39

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTIONS 212 AND 216 OF PL 90-206 AND

EXECUTIVE ORDER 11413 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DOI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT

OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND ADCS DIRECTIVE DATEO 8 OCTOBER 1962

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT! 14 JULY 1968

OLD

SERIAL ORGN. FUNDS GR-STER SALARY

NEWH

SALARY

43 500 | CF GS 13 6 515,757

5162809.

M. ORGANIZATIONI

FUNDS

OLO SALARY MATE

Salary

17.

Lou Ere Dare

Grade

45/500

INEM SALARY RATE

Salary

CF

EFFECTIVE DATE

AS 15 5 913.307

06/19/66 6S 13 6 515,757

06/16/68

CERTIRICATION AND AUTHENTICATION

/ CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE AROVE NAMED EMPIQYEE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE

SIGNATUR

DATE

SLEWOP HOURS

B. TYPE ACTION

ADI

NO EXCESSILWOR

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

[WOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOR

CLERKS INITIALS

560 E "earano

PAY CHANCE NOTIFICATION

N491

VINL

"PAY ADJUSTMENT

PURSUANTI

TO AUTHORITY OF

IN ACCORDANCE WITH

PROVIDEDIAIN

SCHEDULES OF 2L

CIA ACT

AS AMENDED, AND A-DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 19620*

OF 645

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTHENT: B OCTOBER

1967

NAME

SERIAL

ORGN. FUNDS OR-STEP

OLD

SALARY

43500 CF GS 13 5: $14,665

NEH

SALARY

515,307

---

## Page 40

13 DEC 68

OCB

1 SERIAL NUMBERI

2. NAME (LAST FIRET MIDOLE)

E3 NATURE ON PERSONNEL ACTION

PROMOTION

FUNDS

CE TO V

INIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

M TO CH

CF TO cF

DOP /DOD

US FIELD

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS GROUP

WASHINGTON BASE

I POSITION TATE

OPS OFFICER

7E CLASSMICATION SCHEDULE JOAN LEE MEN

3 PECUR TONALERES

CS

1A. REMARKS!

0136.01

SECRET

(ther filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

DA

13| 19 68

7 Fironcial Analysis No. Chargeabl

9129 0109 0000

ID, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

RECULAR

8. CSC OR OTHER LECAN AUTHORIY

50 USC 408 J

WASH.- P.C.

E POSITION NUMBER

0416

16 GRADE AND STER

1418

P, SERVICE DESIONATION

D

I7, SALARY OR RATE

18076

FICE COOINC

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

SATION

INTEGREE

cobe

RS DATE OF BIRTH

22

ZAINTE EXPIRES

10

13500

PrEsENCE

DOD

75013

RETIREMENT DATA

PARATIO

32: Cartestion /Concellation Daka

26, DATE OF GRADE

121 19

68

FIDATE OFTE

BS IVET. PREFERENCE

EOD DATA

12N 18 68

3 SECURITYNE FANGEX

RO, NO

2A EN COME DATE

37, LONG, COMP DATE 3B, CAREER CATEGORY

CAR

CODE

FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE

MEALTH INS CODE

10, SOCIAL SECURITY NO

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

FENG LEAK IN SERVICE

2- BREAK IN SERVICE PRESS THAN 3 YEA

- MEAK IN SAVICE MORE THAN SYPSI

EAVE CAT

FORM EXECUTED

1-res

FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

STATE TAX DATAI

CODE N

SIGNATURE OR CITHER AUTHENTICATION

OSTED

72-16-68

1150

Mini 10-67

Us Prerous

Edinion

SECRET

GROUP T

sluded iram autonorie

When Filled int

---

## Page 41

1. SERIAL NO. 12

NAME

2- ORCANIZATION 12

FUNDS

OLE SALARY RATE

Step.

Last Eff: Dater

Grade

93 500

NEW SALARY RATE

Salary

EFFECTIVE DATE

052413 4280767 12/15/68

051418

+ 120,205|32/14/69

CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE

SIGNATUR

DATE

EWOP HOURS

8, TYRE ACTION

ADI:

NO EXCESS IWOR

IRE IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

WOR STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

4010 5-3107

CLERKS INITIANS

AUDITED aX

1-661

60 E2

PAT CHANGE NOTIFICATION

14-511

"RAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCURDANCE WITH SECTION 212 OF PL 90-206 AND EXECUTIVE

ORDER 11474 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1049,

AS AMENDED, AND A DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 13 JULY 1969

SERIAL

ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP

48 500 CF

GS 14 3

NEW

SALARY

5194767

---

## Page 42

BSJ: 16-FEB 70

OEB

SERIAL, NUMBER

KRIO PERSONNE ACTION

RESIGNATLON

FUNDS

CE TO V

• ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

M T9 SE

CE TO cr

DOP/DOD

U.S.

FIELD

INTELLIGENCE, OPERATIONS GROUP

WASHINGTON BASE

3 POSTTIONTTE

OPS OFFICER

LLUCLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (OS, LE. FIG)

15 JOOCUPATIONAL SEMES

ONE CHANE NON

0136.01

SECRET

(When Fled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

A ERECTIVE DATE

E CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

02/07 | 70

REGULAR

7 Financial Analyris No, ChargeoblE. ESCOR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

Q129 0109

10000

TO: LOCATION OF OFFICIAL, STATION

WASH., D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

0416

JE CRAPEFAND STERI

1404

13 SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

17 SALARY OR RATE

20385

OFFICE COONG

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

STATION IS

ALKANSTIC

LODE

RA HARY 123 DATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADER 27 DATE OF TER

VR.

MO.

145

10

20. NTE EXPIRES

RETIREMENT DATA

FARM PACERE REME

B1, FERARATION I32, COM

Man Concelfation Dard

EDOOS 1

SERV. COMP, DATE 37, LONG COMP, DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY

SAR

RESV.

BROV

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN

GOVERNMENT SERVICE

O-NO PREVICOS SERVICE

- HONE CATE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

NO BREAK IN SERVICE

FORM EXECUTIO COGE

NO, TAX EXEEFTIONES

2- BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN D VRS)

3 EREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN D YRS)

KIN NO

GOD DATA

RED. NO.

RECL / HEACTM INSURANCE

FO- WAIVER

HEALTH ING, CODE

40, SOCIAL SECURITY NO

FORM EXECUTED

STATE TAX DATA

COOF POLE SAD COOR

SENS

SIGNATURE CS OTHER AUTHENDICATION

OSTED

Use Previou

SECRET

BBG

scluded fron

(When Filed Ind

---

## Page 43

BSJ: 16 FEB 205

SECRET

(When Fillad in)

DAF

A SERIAL NUMBER

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2. NAME (LAST-FIRST MIDDLE)

FA NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

EXCEPTED APPOINTMENT

CAREER

EFFECTIVE DATE!

- CATEGORY OF EMFLOVIENT

GUNDS

VITO VI

Y TO Ch

DESIONATIONSI

мо.

02 | 09.70

REGULAR

Froncial Arolyil No. Charghoble BOSE OR OTHER LECAL AUTHORITY

0135. 0629 0009

1O LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

3R USC 403 J

DDP WH

BRANCH 3

PERU SECTION

I POSITION TITE

WASH. .D.C.

E2 POSITION NUMBER

M CLASUIFICATION SCHEDULE (65, 18, MC)

OPS OFFICER

E3, SERVICE DESIONAHON

IS OCCUPATIONAD SERIES

1391

18. CRADE AND STEP

GS

i6. REMARKS

9136.01

STAFF EMPLOYEE SPECIAL.

I SALARY OR RATE

01464

20385

HOME BASE: WH

ACTION 20 Emplo

DEFICE CODING

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

I STATION EN

CODE

ONCE REE HAN

CODE

20 LTE EXPIRES

51Н00L WH

28I SRECIAT

25013

ET NIGGER PATE PATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF ORADE TET DATE ON LET

Code

TERENCE

MO.

RETIREMENT DATA

DA

cope

AT.

SEPARATION 32, Correcti

DATA

CODE

12L 15 681

ТУРЕ

2

N2L 14. 69

MO.

33 SECURITY 34. SEXI

36, SERV: COMP, DATEST LONG COME, PATI 39, CARTER CATEGORY

EOD DATA

RECL NO.

YRI

00000 г

07 03/50|01

CAR.

BESV.

REGU / HEALTH INSURANCE

LICT

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

02/52

CODE

40. SOCIAL

PROV.

HEATH INS, COO

SECURITY NO,

DE NO PREVICUS NERVICE

12

LEVE

CAVE CAT

CODE

NINO BREAK IN SERVIC

FEDERAL TAX DATA

2. BREAK IN SERVICE LESS CHAM 3 YRS.

FORM EXECUTEO RODE

3 BREAK IN SERVICE MORE TMAN 3 PREY

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

STATE

FORM EXECUTEO

8

CODE MO MAX MAY CODE

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FOSTED

FORM

560l

113 504

M0100

SECRET

BBG

ungroding and

When Filled inf

---

## Page 44

MPAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 9S-231 AND

EXECUTIVE ORDER 11524 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY DE OCD AS PROVIDED IN THE

CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND A DOL DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1964

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 20 DECEMBER 1969

NAME

SERIAL ORON, FUNDS GROSTEP

51.400 V GS 144

NEW

SALARY

521,608

---

## Page 45

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

GOR

1. SERIAL NUMBER!

NATURE DE PERSONNEL ACTION

TRANSTER TO VOUGHERED FUNDS

VITO M

FUNDS

CRITO V

MO CAN

IN ATIONAL DESIGNATIONS.

DDP WH

BRANCH 3

"ERU SECTION

POSITION TITLE

ORS

LOFELCER

12 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (OS) LEY SIC)

I5: OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

GS

18, REMARKS

0136511

MOTIVE DATE

5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

DAS.

04 1 19 21

REGULAR

Anancel Anchal do Charguebe POSE OR OTHERLEGA RAUTHORTY

0235 X 620 0000

50. USC 403 U

DI LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

WASHED D.C.

12 POSTION NEMBER

1391

A GRADE AND STERI

1740

I MET DESIGNATION

7 SALARY OR RATE

216 8

OFFICE CODING

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

IT ON DAINTEGREE

CODE

ALPHABETIC

Kcone

24 NOT 25 BATE OF HATH

26, DATE OF GRADES

1. 6

51400

DA STE EXPIRES ANY

29. SpEctAn

REFERENCE

27. DATE OF LET

ма.

1e01S

RETIREMENT DATA

cope

SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32. Correction

ancelletion Dore

S. SECURITY 1341 SE

REC: NG

OD DATA

36: SERV: COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY

CAR

FEGLI/ HEALTH INSURANCE

D. WAIVER

HEALTH INS. CODE

40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO

COỢE

DÉVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE ONE CATAS

• NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

- NO BREAK IN BENVICE

2-BREAK IN SERVICE (LISS THAN S YRAN

- BALAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN D YRS.

FORM EXECUTES

11, Y60

124 NO

FEDERAL TAX DATA

NOU TAX EXEMPTIONS

STATE TAX DATA

SOBE IS TAXI STATE CODE

2: NO

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHENTICANION

TOSTED

4.20-20

FORM

$.65

11.50

Mig 10-67

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

BBC

GROUP T

cluded rom outo

When Filled in

INTED AT THE STANCANO RECKTER COMPART US

---

## Page 46

EVD: 12 MAY 70

SECRET

(When Filled in)

OKF

SERIAL NUMBER

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2. NAME (LAST. FIRST MIDDLE)

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT AND

TRANSFER TO VOUCHERED FUNDS (CORR)

MEO MI

FUNDS:

CE TO CE

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP WH

BRANCH 3

PERU SECTION

I, POSITION TITLE

OPS DEGICER

TA: CLASSIPICATION SCHEDULE KOS, 1B, etC

TIS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

4 EFFECTIVE DATE

5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

04

119170

REGULAR

*Fiancial Aralyns No, Chargedble DESCE OR OTHER LECA! AUTHORITY

0235 0620 0000

50 USe 403 U

1O, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

WASHA, D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

1391

16 OR DE AND STEP

13 SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

SALARY ORIRATE

REMARKS

GS

0136,01

14414

21608

THIS ACTION CORRECTS FORM 1150 EFFECTIVE

ITEM #3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION WHICH READ TRANSFER TO

04/19/70 AS FOLLOWS:

VOUCHERED FUNDS TO READ REASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER TO VOUGHERED FUNDS.

Code,

58

19

28. NIE EXPIRES

NO.

ORIC CODINGI

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

22SA DONTES NISCREE

CODE

CODE

BY PARROR ALATIN

AIPHABETIC

51400 # WH

75013

29.1

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

14.84

METREMENT PARAT

cope

DATA CODE

IS DATE OF GRADE!

35 VET. PREFERENCE

6

B6, SERV COMP

DATE37. LONG, COMP. DATE

20, CAREER CATEGORY

SARI

COCK

gRav

on ouncelation Dara

IAC!

DA

04 119

30.

CODE

COD DATA

70

TELL / HEALTH INSURANCE

MALIM INS CODE

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT GERVICE

DENO PREVIOUS SERVICE

LENG BREAK IN SERVICE

& BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN D YES)

-AREAK IN DERVICE MORE THAN 2 (RS)

CODE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

PORM EXECUTES CODE

NO, TAX DAMPTIONS

2- NO

ORM, EXECUTED

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICHTION

EX. DATE OF TE

33. SECURITY

RED NO.

134 SEX

10 SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

STATE TAX DATA

CODE IS IN STAR COOL

ORM

5-56

0250

Mig: 10-67.

Use Previous

Edmon

SECRET

FYD

POSTED

0D-1270

(When, Filled inI

---

## Page 47

"PAY ADJUSTMENT

EXECUTIVE ORDER 11637 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DC AS PROVIDED

ACT

OF 19493 AS AMENDED AND A DCI DIRECTIVE DATED B OCTOBER 19621

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTI • JANUARY 1972

NAME

SERIAL ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP

51 480 V GS 145

NEW

SALARY

4244688

205-0090

I SERIAL NO.

45

ORCANIZATION T

FUNDS

OLD SALARY RA TE

Grade

Step

Lost an Der

Orada

5L 409

NEW SALARY RATE!

Saloryi

LEFECTIVE DATE

3., LWOP. HOURS

THE ACTION

ADE:

65.144 0222197. 12/45/09 0514 3 3379+3211 13/12271

ICERTRCATON AND AUTHENTICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYÉE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATUI

12 Detober 1971

• NO EXCESS IWOR

ZJ IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

I WOR STATUS AT SNO OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERS INTAS DOVES

EFFE

18.

560 E EiNS

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

AUDITED EY

(4-61

9850

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES GF PL 91-656

EXECUTIVE ORDER 11576 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DEI AS PROVIDED

CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED. AND A DI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT 10 JANUARY 1971

NAME

SERTAL ORON. FUNDS OR-STER

51 600 V 05 14 4

NEW

SALARY

$22:097

---

## Page 48

G= 6

205 30416/

ERIAL NUMBI

- NAME (LASE FIRST HIDDE

3 MATURE OF PERSONMEL ACTIONY

REASSICNMENT

FUNDS

10 V

ORCANIZATIONAT DESIORATIONS

DOP/WH DIVISTON

BRAGICA SECTION

101. POSTONILE

OPS OFFICER

TE LLASSINCATION SCHEDULE (65 1E) MIC)

CS

LE REMARKS

200 MO 1970

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

(When Filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

I EFFECTIVE DATE

S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMERTIR

DA:

09 122

7, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO. CHARGLABLE 18. ESC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

2235

0020 0000

1O LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

RESHAR DIG.

IS. OCCUPATIONAU SERIES

9136,01

1E POSITION NUMBER

1855

16, GRADE AND STEP

114

13. CAREER SERVICE DESICHATIONI

IF SALARY OR RATE

SICNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

10-12021

SECRET

---

## Page 49

SECRET

(When Filled In),

SRIA: NOMEL L/22

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

NAME LAST FIRSTMOOLE

DELEGAPIENE NISACIAL

PONDS

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DOPENE OTVERLON

1. POSTION TITLE

14, CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS L8 EC

I9 REMARKS

1. EPPECTIVE DATE N

IF CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

DATE

06 103/ 70

7 Finoncial Analytit Na Chargeable BIESO OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

2233 0-34 0002

NO LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

MASSI CAEN

E POSITION NUMBER

13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

13 PCCUPATIONAT SERIESI

0330,01

1 CRADE AND STEP

Z SALARY OR RATE!

ACTION ZON

CODE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE

PENICe CODING

INTEGREE

OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

COD

24. HAGI 125. DATE OF BIRTH

DATE OF GRADE 127 DATE ORIEN

мо:

28. NTE EXPIRESI

REFERENCE

SOMEN DATA

ANTON N Corection / Concera al Dera

DATA CODE

MORR

EOD DATA

33, SECURITY I3A SEXT

REQ. NO.

SERV COMP, DATE 37, LONG, COMP, DATE |38 CARLER CATECORY

RESV

139.

CoDe

FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE

4O, SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

FREVIOUS CIVILAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42 LEAVE CAT

O NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

COBE

NO BREAK IN SERVICE

2- BREAK IN SERVICE (LES THAN 3 VRSA

3- BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS.)

PROC

FEDERAL TAX DATA

FORM F'FCUTED [CODE

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

STATE TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED

NO TAX STATE COD

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATIONI

1642,72

1150

Mfg 10-67

Use Previous

SECRET

da cam a

wagreding ond

When Filled In

у п вичесь взах обож в зна обк

---

## Page 50

PSC: 18 MAY 62

LOCF

1. SERIAL NUMBER

12 NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGRATIONS

DDP

WH

BRANCH 5

CA SECTION

IL. POSITION TITLES

OPS OFFICER

14 CASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LA, ACT

NICH

18T REMARKS

IS, OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

SECRET

Wher Flled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

LEN TESTINE DATE

S CATEGORY OF EMPLOYWENT

18

62

COST CENTER NO, CHARGEABLE

2235

1000

1000

PE LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATIONE

REGULAR

BI ESC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

50

USC 403 J

WASH. • D.C.

12 POSITION NUMBERI

0892

PA PRADE AND STEN

12 3

I3, CAREER SERVICE DESICHATION

D

17 SALARY OR RATE

9475

19. ACTION 20. Empicy. | 21M OFFICE CODING

CODE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

RESTATION

37

cone

10

AS DATE OF ARTET

28. INTE EXPIRES

TR.

64470

29. SPECIALI

REFERENCE

CODE

Coda

75013

I KIRST

WRERLEMENT DATAN

Cope

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

I3Z, CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

W 26 DATE OF GRADE

ZE ORTE OF LET

DA.

35, VET. PREFERENCE

36, SERV. COMP DATE

EOD DATA

30, SECURITY

REG. NO:

J€. SEX

A LONG COMP, DATE

38. MIL, SERV, CREDIT/LCD

COOK

CODE

2-10 рт

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

• NO PREVIONS SERVICE

NO BREAK IN SERVICE

BREAK IN SEAVICK (LESS THAN LA MOS)

BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN LE MOS)

139.

CODE

- NO

FESLI / HEALTH IRSURANCE

MEALTA TAS COOLI

4D. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

12. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

FORM EXECUTED

tres

MANO

FEDERAL TAX DATA

NO TAX EXEMPTIONS

STATE TAX DATA

POEN EXECUTED

CODE

NO TAX STATE CON

ENEMP

SICNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

15- 23-62

Form

8-01

1150

Use Previous

Edtion!

CECRETI

18 May ba

14 ai)

---

## Page 51

EFFECTIVE

ARRANGE DATE POISON BE ONE LOUTE is FoLLows.

MEMORANDUM DATED

14. OCTOBER 1962

NAME

SERIAL ORON

FUNDS CREST SALARY

NEW

GR-ST SALARY

64470

V 12 3 619475

12 3 610105

---

## Page 52

ABM: 3 DEC 62

OCF

T, SERIAL KUNDER

2. NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)

J, RATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASS I GNMENT

FUNDS

9. ORSANIZATIONAL DESIGHATION

DDP WH

BRANCH 2

URUGUAY. PARAGUAY SECTION

TIC POST ION TITLE

ORS OFFICER

TE CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, (S. VIC)

18. REMARASI

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

IF 10 0

2 ETFECTIVE DATERIN 3 CATEGORT OF CAPTONIENT

11,

30 62

REGULAR

7. COST CENTER NO! CHANGENIE

DI ESC OR OTHER LESAL AUTHORITY

3235

1000

1000

50

USe 403 J

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

1S OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

WASH., D. C.

12. POSITION RUMBER

0970

16. GRADE AND STEP

12 3

TE. CALEER SERVICE DESISNATICK

D

12, SALARY DO RATE

10105

19. ACTION) 20.

CODE

SP

Code

10

20. ATE EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFFICE CODING

12. STATION |2D. INTEGREE

AERHABETIC

CODE

CODE

24. Regist | 25. DATE OF BIRTKIN

64350 | WH

75013

2Y. SPECIAL

REFERENCK

RETIREMENT DATA

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32 FORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

TIPE

126. DATE DE GRADE

27, BATE OF LET

ERNES NE

EOD DATA

31, SECURITY

REQ. NO.

TV, SEXI

35. VET PREFERENCE

CODE

36, SEXV. COMP. DATE

37. LONG. COMP, DATE

38. CAREER CATEGORY

DESV

CODE

CODE

FEST / HEXITH INSURANCE

O - WAIVER

HEALTH ME: CORE

10, SOCIAL SECURITT NO,

PREVIOUS GOVERKMENT SERVICE DATA

SO NO PREVICOS SERVICE

• NO BREAK IN SERVICE

¿F BREAK IN GERVICE CESS THAN 3 YRSA

3, BREAX IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YROI

42. LEAVE CATI

CODES

FEDERAL TAX DATA

FORN EXECUTED CODE

STATE TAX DATA

NO: TAX EXERPTIONA

FORM EXECUTED

CORE

NO TAX DIATE COBE

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

FORM

11150

Use Previous

Adition

SECRET

*/-4/02

Excludes liba

Whea Filled in)

---

## Page 53

BAB: 21 JUNE 63.

LOCF

1. SERIAL NUMBER

2. HAME (1451-FIRST MIDDLE)

P. NATURE OF PERSORNET ANTI

PROMOTION

FUNDS

V, 10 y

XE 10 V

D. OEGANIZATIONAL DESICHATIONS

DDP WH

BRANCH 2

URUGUAY, PARAGUAY SECTION

J1. POSITION TITLE

V TO CE

IF TO CE

OPS OFFICER

TA CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (OS, LD, etc.)

IS: OCCUPATIONAL SERTES

18. REMARKS

GS

0136.01

SECRET

(When Filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

I ERRECTIVE DATE

S. CATEGURY OF EMPIDYMENT

06

23

163

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

3235 1000 1000

10, LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STAN

REGULAR

FE CE OK OTHER LEGAL XO CHORIK!

20 USC 403 J

MASH•. D.C.

TI. POSITION MUMMER

0970

16, ORADE END STEP

13 1

TO SERVIKE DESIGNATION

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

11150

17. Астри 20. Строй Т21

CODE

Code

B, NTE EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFFICE CODING

22. STATION 23. INTEGREE

CODE

CODE

22. HDArE 23. DATE OF BIRTH 20 DATE OF CRABE

64350

29 SPECIAL

REFERENCE

ALPRABETIC

WH

175013

KETIREMENT DATA!

CODEST

S1.J SEPARATION

DATA CODE

06/23 63

CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

EZ DATE OF TRIT

TYPE

& NONE

3S. VET. PREFERENCE

EOD DATA

06

123|63

33 SECURITY

3e SEX

REO. NO.

34, SERV. COMP, DATE

37, LONG COMP. DATE

30. CAREER

CATESORY

CODE

FEBLI / HEALTH INSURANCE

O WAIVER

HEALTH INE CODE

40, SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

CODE

PREVIOUS COVERNMEKT SERVICE DATA

A NO PREVIONE DERVICE

LE TO THEM IN DERVICE

A ORCAN RISERVICE JESS THAN A TESA

MELBREAK A SERVICE MORE THAN E YRS)

12 LEAVE CAT

coDe

FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

RATING

STATE TAX DATA

PORN EXECUTEO

CODE

NOTE GATE 600г

L SICNATURE OF OTHER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

0.7/ellg

ПОВм

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

27 1HN

When Filled Zai

---

## Page 54

RZRE 19 AUG 63

OCF

L. SERIAL NUMBER

2. NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)

3 MATURE OF PERSONMEL ACTIÓN

REASS I CAMENT

V TO y

FUNDS

CF TO

E ORGAXIZATIONAL DESICRATIONS

DOP/WHI

PLANS & OPERATIONS STAFF

SECTION B

I POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

14 (CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (OS, L.3, MIC)

16, REMARKS

SECHE!

When Filed b

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

V 10 EF

TO CF

1 EFFECTIVE DATE

DA.

08 119|63

2. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

H235 1000 1000

1O, LOCATIOR OF OFFICIAL STATION

S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYHERT

REGULAR

&, CSC OR OTHER LEGAL KUTHORITY

SQ USC 403 J

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

MASH•, D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

0645

14. GRADE AND STEP

13

13. SERVICE DESISKATION

V7. SALARY OR RATE

11150

19. АСТОМ 20, Empley.

CODE

Code

37

110

2R ATE EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

COFFICE CODING

27. STATION 123 INTEGREE

PURERTO

CODE

21. Adore: |25 DATE OF BIRTH

Code

64075

ALPRABETIO

CODE

WH

75013

21, SPECIAL

RETIREMENT DATA

REFERENCE

CODE

JI SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

но.

va.

26. DATE OF GRADE

27. DATE OF ET

SAVERT

BOD DATA

33. SECURITE

REG, NO.

34. SEX

35. VET. PREFENENCE

36. SERVE COMP DATE

37. LONG. COMP, DATE

JE. CAREER CATEGORY

39.

CODE

FEDLL / HEALTH INSURANCE

OF HAIVER

WEALTH INSE CODE

CODE

2. 10 ят.

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

OF NO PREVIONE SERVICE

ME NO BREAK IN SERVICE

2- BREAK IN SERVICE FLEES TARRE E VR5A

1 BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN A YRE)

10, SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

12. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

FORM EXECUTED

FEDERAL TAX DATA

NO, TAX EXENETIONS

FORM EXECUTED

STAYE TAX DATA

CODE

2-NO

NO TAX IRTATE 6O3г

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FORM!

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

POSTED

0827163

Cadiuted hom automat

mingrading, and

When Filed G

---

## Page 55

Serial No.

• PAYROLL ARILD

Grade

Con Conter Number

37G

51 075

NEW SALARY RATE

LaM EH. Date

Grode

Step

Sakes i did Effecive Done

won heve

TIRE ACTION

PsI

ADI

GS 11 1 511,725

Remarks and AvanticaRon

06/23/63 CS 13 3 812•130 06/21/64

HO CARESS

* IN

LHOR

PAY

STATUS AT END OF MALTING PERIOD

LHOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

AUDITED BY

1 CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS

AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATUREL

360 6

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

• SATE 10 Curil 62

IN

ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVESIONS OF PUBLIC L

MEMORANDUM DATED

EFFECTIVE S JANUARY 1964%

SERIAL

ORGN FUNDS GR-ST

91 075 V

OLD

SALARM

INEW

-SALARY

GS 13 1 5112150 $11,725

---

## Page 56

ADJUSTMENT OF SALARY RATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE

SCHEDULES OF THE GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES SALARY REFORM

ACT OF 1964 PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR

OK CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AS PROVIDED IN THE CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND POLICY

DIRECTIVE ISSUED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE DATED & OCTOBER 1962.

SALARY CONVERTED TO RATE SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL'S GRADE

AND STEP AS INDICATED IN CHART BELOW

GENERAL SCHEDULE RATES

Federal Employees Salary Act of 1964

GRADE

2

Per Annum Rates and Steps

GS-

7

GiS-

$3,385 $3,500|$3,615|$3,730

8

8

10

$3,

845

3,805

38,960

3,030

$4,075

1$4,

GS-

4,055

4,180

•100

93, 305/54,420

4,140

4,305

GS-

4,275

4,430

4,680

4,005

4,630

4,780

4,410

4,545

4,815

5,085

220

noth

4,680

4,930

5,080

5,165

,230

5,330

5,

,380

5,495

5,560

5,680

5,690

5,825

5

5,875

,830

,990

6,060

155

6,245

6,320

6

6,430

6,450

,485

6,050

6,250

6,615

6,800

6,985

0.170

S-

650

6,

6,850

,630

6,850

7,050

7,070

7,450

7,650

7,850

G

S

,250

7

,290

7,

,510

,220

7,465

7.730

7,950

7,710

7.

8,270

8,390

8,610

S

-10

7,900

.955

8,

,200

8,445

8,170

G

S

8,690

8,440

8,

710

8

9,180

1

1

8,650

8,935

8,945

,980

9,250

9,240

9

9,520

9,

425

9.

9,790

,830

20,060

10

10,125

10,960

330

GS

-12

10

,250

10,605

10,420

1

10,715

31

11,010

,670

12,025

21

,305

GS-13

12,075

12,495

12,380

12,915

,335

12,735

13

755

13,090

13

5

GS-14

14,170

14,660

14,175

15,150

1

GS-15

16,460

5,640

16,130

16,620

1

17,030

4,50

44

25,015

15)

.435

15)

5

GS-16

17,600

18,170

18,740

17,600

28,090

18,935

19,590

19

,3

20,900

,880

22

20,450

GS-17

21,445

22,195

21,555

21,020

GS-18

24.500

23,695

24,445

23,520

24,175

---

## Page 57

OID SALARY RATE

Grade

Grade

Stop

SS 18 3 830,105 05/13/62

Con Conter Number

64 350

*ZA

NEM SALARY RATE

Salary

820,420 05/12/63

ELWOP Houn

TYPE ACTION!

PSI

ADI.

/ NO EXCESS LNOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF MARTING PERIOD

/ LOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

AUDITED BY

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMRETENCE:

ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE LE

SIGNATURE:

ARIFATE

BOT 360

14 MAN, BAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

2R9R0

---

## Page 58

NJM: 11 VAN 65

SECRET

(When Filled In

OCF

1 SERIAL NUMBER

112 NAME [LAST,FIRST-MIDDLE)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL. ACTION

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS

Y TO v

CF TO V

V TO CE

CP TO

L EFFECTIVE DATE

ма:

DA.

01, 111 65

7 COST CENTER NO. CHANGERBLEN

ITS. CATECORY OF EMPLOTSENT

REGULAR

E. ESC OR OTHER LESAC AUTHORITY

P. ORCAMIZATICNAL DESISNATIONS

5285 0620 0000

NO. LOCATION DE OFFICIAL STATION

50 USC 403 J

DOP /WH

PLANS & OPERATIONS STAFF

SECTION B

UL. POSITION TITLE

WASH.• D. C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

OPS OFFICER

I, CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (C5, 10, MC)

TO SERVICE DESIGHATION

8. REMARKS

1S. OCCOPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

0646

16, GRADE AND STEP

13 2

D

T7, SALARY DE RATE!

12495

12 ACTION, 2O.

Emplay!

CODET

37

Coda

10

28. AT EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE

OFFICE CODING

NUMERICT

ALPHASETIC

22 STATION | 23: INTECREE

OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

CODE

2S DATE OF BIRTA

51075

WH

23, SPECIAL

75013

KEFERENCE

ME IREMENT DATA

CODE

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

3Z: CORRECTION/CANCELLATIÓN DATA

26, DATE OF ISRADE

DA.

27. DATE OF TEL

YR.

39 VET. PREFERENCE

CODE

S6, SERV. COMP, DATE

LOD DATA

37

LONE, COMP. DATE

33. SECURITY

RED, NO.

36 SEX

38. CAREER CATESORY

39.

CODE

CODE

PREVIOUS COVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

TO - NO PREVIONE SERVICE

L. BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN A VEST

• BREAR DA SERVICE MORE THAN A YAS

PROV.

TEMP

FEGIT / HEALTH INSURANCE

HEALTH INS CODE

NO. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

E LEAVE CAT.

CODE

HERERAL TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED/ CODE

TAX EXEHPTIONE

14

STATE TAX DATA

TORM ERECUTED

CODE

T. YES

NO TAK (STATE CODE

EKEND

SIGNATUNE CH OTHEE AUEIENTICATION

POSTED

FORM

11,62

31150

Use Previous

Edition

SECHET

GROIR TI

Paulo, hon abase

Wher Filled in) /

---

