# 104-10095-10341

## Page 1

104-10095-10341

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORACAL REVIEW PROCRAT

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

SUBJECT

: HSCA Investigations

1. Roger Gabrielson of OLC (now handling the HSCA since

Doug Cummins' retirement) came to see me last week about requests

from Mr. Blakey.

I had heard elsewhere that Blakey is restless

at the way the Agency is responding to his requests, and Gabrielson

told me that Blakey now wants to see the materials on which our

Task Force's report is based.

I expressed the opinion to Gabriel-

son that I thought we could work out how HSCA staff members could

see the basic documentation. We have some of these specific back-

up documents for many of the statements made in the Task Force

rever to say livissed as the to uns the so-es e swagd what we,

have to say is based.

suggested different rules for the different material along the

following lines:

a. Tab C contains material making possible the

identity of Cubans in jail as well as AMLASH. This

presents problems that I thought we could discuss with

the HSCA. I mentioned specifically reading without

note-taking.

I observed that Blakey had declared the

AMTRUNK section as irrelevant, which takes that entire

section out of consideration

so far as the HSCA is con-

cerned.

b. I noted that Tab D, on AMLASH, contained a lot

of information that would permit his identification.

They already know his true name, and we allowed the

Church Committee to review the actual files in their

raw form.

I thought that we could given them the same

access subject to the note-taking reservation and re-

strictions in the final report.

c. Tab E is a list of all the documents produced

and disseminated in connection with the Warren Commission

investigation.

The actual documents are in the possession

of CI Staff and something could be worked out on this.

We

spoke briefly on Russ Holmes sanitizing things ( a hor-

rendous undertaking).

0/3/90|

---

## Page 2

in decide i he adam

d. Tab F has the details of operational coverage

in Mexico City, including liaison, teltaps, photographic

operations, and surveillance teams. I expressed the

opinion that Mr. Cornwall be asked to review this himself,

in lieu of other staff members.

I expressed the opinion to Gabrielson that the details would

have to be worked out with the appropriate DDO components, namely,

SA/DDO, LA Division (Sturbitts) and CI Staff.

Maurice Sovern is concerned that a bureaucratic hiatus

(change in DDO leadership and that of SA/DDO, as well as the departure

of Cummins) will place us at a disadvantage in establishing satis-

factory ground rules on a timely basis. Blakey is pressing for

accelerated support; CI Staff has assigned several people to help

Russ Holmes. Blakey may find that a combination of pressures (which

sure he has been told by others worked) will find us where we

were a couple of years ago. We will always reply more slowly than

the investigators want and there may be some uncertainty in the

Agency at this moment as to how much understanding there will be

for the nature of our problem, as well as support while we try.

and work it out.

It might be more than useful if you injected yourself into

this at this point.

You may recall that during the investigations

in 1975 the IG chaired a committee of Associate Deputies to establish

ground rules and to ensure that in cooperating it did not compromise

the protection of sources and methods. May be it is time again.

Buckil

S. D. Breckinridge

---

## Page 3

JILg

Please keep. this and atcher

'or our recorde It is rest

, of

search by Barbara of Intestigation

Filese

Please check to see what

"hits' there are for HSCA.

Also have her check the Wigate

File on Item #183 however, don't

necessarily limit to the time frame

shown here. Compulsive Spy by Tad

Szulc shows Hunt in Madrid ab time

frame not consistent with record

(as I recall it)

Also check Hunt

travel records during time around

JFK assassination (papers on this

in the W'Gate files, too, I think,

Ask Jean to se if we have any

thing in OIG on Jim Garrisong also

possibly under New Orleans,

etce

Our Assassination File, diso

has materials.

Ali. this in addition to the

IG draft history of WiGatee

All this may be s bit heavy,

but add it to the xerox of files

of supporting documents for Task

Force paper®

SDB

9 Jan 178

---

## Page 4

*: 4e

3 January 1978

Date

WATER

best

ILL.

Ild like to

discuss.

ques this

o uncle cartial

From: SDBreckinridge

said at AM wit

Return to:

Jean for Task Force file

915 tu

---

## Page 5

-

ARIAQVED FOR HELEASE 1993

-no rorrd

atstunt ottt

BAC

---

