# 104-10234-10134

## Page 1

104-10234-10134

CLASSIEY TO FILE NO.

M-REI TO FILE NO.

FILE RIOD

DESTaOr D s16.

Pion

BERN

ACTION

FASSIFIED NESSABL

SECRET

PERSON/UNIS NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 22

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

BRID COPY

wale di

ADVANCE COPY

Dio Horro rosse

WHIT

TIME

SE CRE T 211238Z

PRIORITY DIR INFO SONN GNVA GMNY CITE BERN 7048

TYPIC AMWEST

Grace

REF DIR 89922

21K 661:79286

1o REF AGAIN PAISES QUESTION OF AMWEST 1 STATION DOES

NOT THINK HE LIKELY BE OF VALUE AS SOURCE, BECAUSE LACK OF ACCESS,

HIS PERSONALITY, OPORTUNISM, ETC., BUT HE MUST FEEL MORE

THREATENED NOW THAN AT ANY TIME IN RECENT PAST AND PRESUMASLY

WILL SE THAT MUCH MORE APPROACHABLE.

2. IF AMWEST I DOES NOT DEFECT OF OWN ACCORD, AND DOUBT ME

WILL DO SO AS LONG AS HE NOT ORDERED HOME, IS HOS INTERESTED IN

DEFECTION OR RECRUITMENT APPROACH? DOUBT HE WOULD BE OF ANY VALUE

OTHER TRAN AS DENIAL TO PBRUMEN FOREIGN OFFICE, BUT THIS ALONE MIGHT

SERVE NOS PURPOSES. THERE IS SOME CHANCE HE MAS OTHER BLOC

CONTACTS INCLUDING SOVIETS WHICH WOULD SE OF INTEREST.

3. MOST RECENT RPT FROM MILAT SOURCE QUOTES AMWEST 2

AS SAYING 19 MARCH AMWEST I HAS AVIDLY READ HERALD TRIB REPORTING

ON TRIALS AND PURGE AND IS EXTREMELY WORRIED. AMWEST 2 CONTINUES

TO POINT OUT TO HIM THAT ALL OF HIS FRIENDS NOW ARE IN JAIL OR UNDEP

_HEAVY SUSPICION. A LINE SHE APPARENTLY TAKING FOR OWN PURPOSES

BECAUSE SHE WANIS HIM TO DEFECT OR RESIGN.

SECRET

CFN 7048 89022 1 NOT THINK ETC I NOT DEFECT NOT ORDERED HAS PBRUMEN

HQS BLOS SOVIETS RPT MILAT 2 19 1 HERALD TRIB 2

APILASH, 1

de de doradad a

tore

---

