# 104-10529-10355

## Page 1

104-10529-10355

boed

EUNIT.

BA!!:

OCT

1451

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

13

BBURBY

BOOK MESAAGE AS BELON

171. 1? 142

, co, m/s. RF, 20

iNtO.

ROOTINE:

BELA LOND

JADE

BEIR

CAlE bIR

76219

BUKI

BOiN

PABI

CARA

RIOD HAGU VIEN

LEOP

BACO

ATAS

CALED:

FRAN: LISB

PERAND:

MÁR-BAST - APRICA BRISS (TOB LIAISON) (ROPES LA 31A173).

CONTO.//CURRKIT POLITICAL MANSUVIIS VISIT TAS CONGO

LESS COUSINETY MAY BE ALMO AS DIS SARACEIT I SENIA ADOULA.

SO O ADOULA'S NAPLATES SO FOR

JESS LVE

DRAPTED A DOCUMENT MANIER A VIVE KISS CONTESS OF INCEPTION:

TO BEYLACE CAB, PRESENT COVERSIRIT, ACCORDING TO CLANDRETLNY SOURCES.

IS CO MITTEE IS TO BE LADED CY LINFIE OF DEPRA T

DOCUMETT TO PRESIDENT LABAYURU POR A SICATURE TODAY.

WAS SOUR VICH IS CANALLY VESTERN ORDITO, IS TORRED

SIMOLLY LININO SILLY CANSI

AS VALL AS IT LABOR GROUP AGITITION YOR A MEN COVET.

: THE

REAK ODUC TONIET MAINER

---

## Page 2

ORiG

DATE

: TO

FROM:, PRECTOR

CONT

'IÑFO"

:TO"

13:091

CLASSIRED MESSAGE

SECRET

DEFERRIO

ROUTINI

INFO

CITE DIR"

78219

SAYS ALDO LOSS BAN COSCAN PITS TE LACKUSTS LADSTS AND

MIT CHLET CRIMAL MOSUTO MAX AB CO

INCE DRI THE CHOUP OR

LAT LAST BAY DACTLY BUPPORT 378 ALAR

COME BRARPLS CRATICAL OF ADOULA

3419000в-MeRICA:"

70S CS ALL PORARS FIGHTIONS AS SERIMENS ALONS TAN UNSPIRE

BASTAR AREA CONTINUE.

PRESS STORIES TSAT EAR AREA OF MIGHTIES MAD FEE

TIED BEYOND

OBOOSAR TROPS ARS MIRAGED ARE STILL COSMI

ALGERIAH AIR"

LINS AND IS OPIOATIONAL FAT? HAYS ISSLID sER

BADOURTES AT DARRAKICH, TACOWITS, 35 MILAB BORTE CE TIAJOUS

HE APART IS DISG USED AS THE DORA BOROCCAR BABE.

LU ADITION, AN ALKET 18 BETTO BAIFTAINED ALONE THE BASTIAN

HE TIE ALONIAN

ARE BAS BAK BSTRPORCIDO ITS BORDER UNITS IN THE MAINTA-TLESCEN

Istantest: 1558436476959

NOTICED.

REPRODUCTION EY" OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

CinDy the

---

## Page 3

CUASSINICO MESSAGE

S KCRET

76217

ARCA

¡BEN BRALA'S ENVOYS ARRIVED IN MARRAKECH 15 OCT FOR TALKS TITE

MOROCCAN OPFICIALS, WHICH REPORTADLY DID NOT GO WELL.

3.: TURKHY,; THE: INONU GOVERNIENT BAS INDICATED AT IT WIlL

EXTEND MARTIAL LAY FOR TWO ADDITIONAL MONTHS, PRESUIABLY BECAUSE

OF CONTITUING UNSETTLED POLITICAL CONDITIONS;

TIXS VILL BE THE

THIED ETASION SINCE THE ABORTIVE MILITARY COUP OF LAST-HAY:

REGIORAL AND LOCAL ELICTIONS SCHEDULED FOR 17 MOVIER NAY MOG BE

OSTPO ED:

4 PRAICE XRANO PRIME MINISTER ALA SPICES DE COGILE TO

ORTKA IRAN, ECONORIC ASSISTANCE PRIMARILY CREDITS FOR TIB PEYBO

CHEMICAL LADUSTRZ AND ELECTRIFICATION, DURING A TOUR DAY VISIT T. O

IRAT WHICH BEGINS TODAY,

ALAN DID NOT SPECTS TAS AROUNT 0 7H8

CREDITA BENCH SOURCES DESCRIBB THE VIBIST AS: BLASGILY CEREBONIAL,

OP. THE IRANIAN PARLIAMENT TOMORICH

." (CONT)

ENDOR MESSAGE.

Wallet Kitart

---

