# 104-10095-10416

## Page 1

104-10095-10416

SECRET

25 MAR 1974.,

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT::

Agency Contact with the Immigration and

Naturalization Service on Behalf of Mi-

Johnny Roselli

-do.

Reference is made to a request forwarded to the

Office of Security on 19 March 1974, by Mr. John C:

Richaids, Office of the Inspector General. The Subject

of inquiry is based on a request for information, made on

13 March 1974, by Mr. Terry. Lenzner, Assistant Majority

Chief Counsel,

Senate Select Connittee on Presidential

Campaign Activities; to Mry-Lyle l. Miller, Deputy Legis

lative Counsol."Mr. Lenzner cited a 14 May 1962, Agency

memorandum which refers-to contact between Mr. Lawrence

• Houston, then General Counsel, and the then Attorney

General, Mr. Robert Kennedy, with the. intention of quashing

of a Grand Jury organized Crime Indictment against SamA

GianconI (sic) (Salvatore: Glancana). Mr. Lenzner is under

stood to believe this reported contact and the circunstances

surrounding the intended Agency utilization of Mr. Glancanad

during President John T Kennedy's Administration were being

in 1971 as part of an effort tolobtain blackmail.

type information on- certain principals in the:Democratic.

Party. Mr. Lonzner: spectfically requested information on

Agency contacts with the Administration during 1971 relating.

to this matter

E:t.

2_ The flles and records of all individuals identified

with the planned utilization of Mr. Giancana were searched.

These individuals included Mr. Robert A. Maheu, who arranged

contact with Mr. Glancana through Mr Johnny Roselli; Mr

Richard Cain, recentlY deceased, who was identified in the

press as knowledgeable.of Agency association with Mr. Glancana;

and Mr. William King Harvey, retired Staff employee, who

acted as principal contact with Mr. Roselll during the

late 1960's and up until Mr. Roselli!s incarceration.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 06114Z

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRE Tr

"and"

Additionally, the files of other. individuals associated with

Mr. Robert A. Maheu were also searched,

These included." Mr.

Peter R. Maheu, Mr. -John Meier, and My

currently an Agency contract emnlovee twho was utslized

during 1968 and. 1969 in

3. Memoranda were located in the file of Nr. Johnny:

Roselli which summarize contact on 26 February 1971,

Initiated by this Agency with the Commissioner, Inmigration

and Naturalization Service, Department of Justice, Mr. Raymond

Farrell. The purpose of this effort was to intercede with

the Immigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of Mr.

Roselli in the action being initiated for deportation. It

was determined that this Agency would be kept

informed of the

progress of the action against Mr. Roselli in an effort to

forestall public disclosure of his association with the United

States Government.

The Attorney General at the time of these

contacts with the

Immigration and Naturalization Service was

Mr. John. N. Mitchell.

4." On 21 March 1974, this matter was discussad with Mr.

John 6. Richards, Office of the Inspector General; Mr. Lyle I

Miller, Deputy Logislative.Counsel; and Stanton F-Ease,

Deputy Director for Personnel Security and Investigations,

Office of Security:" The Office of Security file on Mr. -Johnny.

Roselli was made available to MessIs. Richards and Miller,

including the menoranda cited in-paragraphs. 1 and 3 above. Mr

Miller Indicated that he planned to await a. follow up call

from Mr. Lenzner on this Subject.

72* Stanton F. Ense:

Deputy Director of Security

Personnel Security and Investigations

SECRET

BR

---

