# 104-10418-10225

## Page 1

1104-10418-10225

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM.

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

° 1.

C/EUR/Netherlands

4B2629

AC/EINR

alen

'ERHAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

mistri

COME STAYS P. ES SECRET

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

ETENSION

1653

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

EX-2066

1 March 1968

COMMENTS (Number ouch comment lo show from whom

to. whom.

Draw a line across eolumn after each comment.)

MICROFILMED

JUN 3

1968

DOC. MICRO.

SER:

RIO/AN

RIO/ EDIS

Lit

10.

6-2 please classify

10301-155221

(willian oltien

and indes none of Jamies

Garrison, New Orkn

Distict Attormen

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

LABSTRACT

INDEX

I USE PREVIOU

EDITION

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

201-155221

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

5x-2066

I March 19c8

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT:

O Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination:

Interview of Garrison on Dutch TV by

William I. Oltmans (201-155221)

MiCROFILMED

1968

DOG. MICRO. SER

REFERENCES: A.. Joint State-USIA cable, HCM 553,

HAGUE - 3981, 24 February 1968

B.

The Hague 3870, IN 59064,

CIT: 115P

27 February 1968

Оеє!

District ATTorNey

LOUISANA,

New OrleANs

SUMMARY

Summon

of tracio

JAmes

Frison appeared on Dutch TV on 22 February 1968, He

continued

no in fact, escalated - his attack upon CIA in a persuasive

performance. There is a posmibility ol a jolow up program in

Holland and replays elsewhere in Enrope. Garrison's interviewer,

William I Oltnand, is + Dutch pro Coramunists although he pretende.

not to be, and a homocerual who seems to je or to have been intimate

with ex-President Sukarno os Indonesia.

77

Consideration in being given to forwarding to the Station at

The Hague' overt derogatory Information about Garrison from the U.S.

press and TV/radio Interviews for release to CA assets tbere.

DETAILS

1. References state that on 22 February 1968 Garrison

appeared on Dutch TV (Dutch Television Foundation, NTS) during

prime time for one hour (time not stated). Neither reference explaina

whether Garrison travelled to The Hague or whether the show was

taped in the U.S. and sent on tape to Holland. The Dutch desi: belleves

that the latter lo true.

CS COPY

SEURST

201-155221

---

## Page 3

13-00000

STORET

2. The following were Garrison's charges:

a.. Kennedy was murdered because he favored a

detente detrimental to the intereste of the "military-

Industrial complex".

b: Remedy was the victim of a CIA plot. CIA

has made common cause with the military-industrial

establishment because of a veated interest in maintainisg

the cold war.

CIA ln comnitted to the land war in Asta,

whereas one of Prenident Kennedy's last orders directed

a reduction of toopy there.

d. A U.S. president who briags the U.S. to the

brink of peace will suffer Kennedy's fate.

. Asked why the program had been dasigned io...

" European audience. Garrison said that the growing

influence of ClA on U.S. media had made it Impossible for

him to be heard in his own country.

3., Reference A my Garrison, calm and composed it-

eufficiently credible to elicit rather favorable reviews from generally

well informed Dutch newspapers.

"Several Dutch viewers also

cormented on the credibility [of7 bia person and presentation.

|llkaty that the NIS will try to sell this program to other European

otatlons."

4. Reference B says that the Dutch press was generally favorable

and that many comments noted he seemed logical and in contral of his

faets. The majority opinion among Embassy, USIS, and CIA personnel

at The Hague is that be seemed credible to a large proportion of the

Dutch viewer!. SYMPATHMER 17 feel that the program created an

all-time low in the U.S. Image la the Netherlands. Dutch TV alluded

to a third part of the interview, stull to come.

5. Garrison was interviewed by Willlam 1. Olsmana. A

aynopsis regarding Oltmans follows:

2

SEENET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

a. DPOB 10 June 1925 Huizen, The Netherlands.

b. Studied at Yale 1950 but expelled for unstated

misbehavior.

c. Thereafter worked briefly as correspondent

for U.P. and for Dutch paper De Telegraal but dismissed

by both for untated cause.

d. An FBI report of 1960 states that he calls

bimself and-Commanlat but expresses the viewa "of a

great admirer of communina".

€=; An IENS report of 1961 lists him addresi for

1956-1951 as 118-09 83rd Av., Kew Gardens, Long Island.

New York.

1. A ClA report of 1961 latu blo as & UN

correspondent then planning an unsponsored trip to East

Gesmany, Poland, Grechoslovasis, and Hungary. Dutch.:

correspondents wald that they had yet to see a story written

by him. When he applied for membership in the UN

correspondents association, he was uable to produce a

single clipping in support of the application. He travela

extensively.: He lar excellent contacte In all Corrunist

countrles inclading Cuba.

8. The Haague Post of 15 April 1951, with e

nationwide readership, characterized Oltmans as an

Intimate irfend of the then President of Indonesia, Sukarno,

and as baving tzled for five years to arrange contacte

for Sakarzo in Hollasd.

An F'Bl report of 24 November 1961 restates.

the above and adds that he had been separated or divorced

from his American wile 13 months earlier because "he is

not a man". He was living with a male at the fire of the

1. An FBI report of 1 February 1962 includes an

interview with the ex-wlfe Erleda Bleling (she had remarried).

3

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

£X-.2066

She said that her ex-husband and Presidest Sukarno

wore close friends and that he wiote to Sukarno at

least once a week throughout their marriage. Around

1957 she and Oltmans lived at the Paramount Hotel,

New. York, for a time. The Indonesian government

padd their bill, which was more than $300. She met

Susarno through ber husband in May 1959 in Copenhagen.

At the time of the introduction Sukarno cleared the

room of all advinors and bodyguards, then said to bei,

"So you are Frieda. Well, I am Sukde." He told her

"that he looked forward lo receiving his weekly messages

from ber husband and that be always read them just

before he went to mleep while he was in bed." She said.

that ten minutes after her wedding ceremony with

Oltman was ovas, the was alone. Her father, she

Bald, learned that Oltnans had a police record for

molesting young boys la Amsterdan. She obtained a:

Mexican divorce in 1960, She said that Oltmano le at

least intellectally a Communiat and belleves Communiem

to be the economie system of the future.

J. HAGU-1565, 24 October 1966, says Oltmana"

wrote pro-Lumuraba articles in 1960, visited Cuba In 1962

and perhaps 1963, developed frendly relations with

Chicoms at The Hague and may have visited China in 1964.

In August 196u he applied for a Chicom visa at The Hague.

* An FBI report of 12 May 1967 way that Oltman

calmed to have wiittes for Ramparts an article about CIA

In Indonesia.. No such article has been found.

6. Reference 3 reguested background information about

Garrison's mestal health and performance as a public oíficial. A

suzamary al derogatory information from overt U.S. media for the

past year (March 1967 to March 1963) has been compiled in response.

A decision will moon be made as to whother part or all of this material

may be sent to the Station

SHORE

---

## Page 6

13-00000

EX-2066

Distribution:

Orig - DCI

1 - DDP, ADDP

1 - A/DCI

• Eur/Netherlands

- Office of General Counsel

• Office of Security

- C/CJ, DC/CI

1.= R&A chrono

1 - DP reporte file

18÷622

5

350081

201-155271

---

