# 104-10123-10130

## Page 1

104-10123-10130

SECRE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

VIASHINGTO:, D.C. 20505

La%

75-7223.1

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM.

15 DEC 1975

The Honorable Frank Church

Chairman

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Respect to Intelligence

Activities

United States Senate

Washingtos, D. C. 20510

Dear M°. Chairman:

We have izformation from a reliable source that the Second

Secretary of the Cuban Mission to the Uaited Nations is in Washington

on the basis of special instructions from Premier Fidel Cast=c to .

contact "friends of Cuba." This incividual has said that he is in

search of wenty names withheld from the report on assassinations.

•inos were deletcd. He is offering $25, 000 fo= each

ison tho comes up with the names would also

get a statue aracted in Havzaa. He hinted he has tentatively icentifird

ten uspublished names and oly needs ten more. This informatior has

been passed to the FBI.

I vrould hope in vior of this infornation that you will take all

appropriate measures to ensure that deletud names do not fail into the

hands of the Cubans.

Sincerely,

is/ Dil

W. E. Colb:

Director

207568

S0H.00: CE6J. 1142.

E.g;0: C÷72.2%:

Jate Impossible to Deterinine

it =1?)

DDO: WEN:=(le Lec. :975)

Distributio=:

Orig - addressee

1 - DCI

1 - DDCI

1 - C/Rev Stait

1 - DDO.Reg

1 - C/FR

1- SA/DDO

1 - WEN

---

## Page 2

ho tol con i do is 61.

Names to be retained

in SSC Report

@Willám Harvoy • Lumumba/Curtro

Isidney Goltrieb - Castro/Lumumba

- Robert Mahou - Castro

Johnny Roselli - Castro

Santos Trafficante - Castrg

General Valenzyela - Chile /Schneider

General Viaux - Chile/Schneider

Henry Deanbore - Irajilla

•Lou Cóndin - Diem

~Bronson Tweedy - Lunumb

II. C. King - Castro Y 1

william

Ase Homs

Dick Bi

8. 8...

1.

Names to be deleted

from SSC Report

03.

David R. Smith (A/COS Saigon auring

Diem coup)

27, 16-18

Robort Owon

David Phillips (Chief Chile Task

• Force) Schneider

l'ono, Varona - Castr

Juan Orta - Castro

Nestor Sanchez - Castro

Larry Devlin (COS Lcopoldville/Kinsh

to show as(@Hedgman) 07

'Colonel Wirert (MA Santiago Chile)

Justin O'Donnell (to show as Michael

J. Mulroney) Lumumba

- Executivo Action/Cast

James O'Connell:.

• Castro

Samuel Halpern • Castro

Edirard Gunn - Castro

03

Castro

Trujillo

Oinor Chillonn Olucets.

---

