Ip

a se FS LL
; 29
17 ape G2)

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director for Plans
0.
SUBJECT : FI Project(XDFACTOR, Security Review

REFERENCE : ADDP Memo (DD/P 1-5899) to C/WHD dated
14 December 1¢71)04

2 1, In response to reference the following is a summary of the
(BFactoR security review: >
4

The Station summary of the(KDF ACTOR Project security is
as follows: :

‘There were no known problems of security relating to
the Project. In response to the Headquarters request, we have
reviewed all phases of the operation and believe that Project
security is sound. The Project assets have all been with us for
many years and have established themselves as respectable long-
time residents of the area, All five assets, four in one family
and one in another, are extremely security conscious and have
all been SGSWIRLED. The assets derive a substantial portion
of their livelihood from their Agency employment and would thus
lose a great deal if security factors ever necessitated a termina-
tion of their work for us, As an additional safeguard, the

o2(KDLITERAL ahd KDABSINTHE operations are compartmented
from each other, and there has never been any indication that
either segment of SDFACTOR knows of the other's existence".

o The Headquarters desk has also reviewed the security of the
KDFACTOR Project and agrees with the Station that the security
is sound. In fact, as presently constituted, thé(KDFACTOR
Project is well compartmented, and each of the two &DFACTOR
photo basehouséS“(KDLITE RAL av@KDABSINTHE) is ruitby long-
term assets who draw a minimum of suspicion in their operational
activities. Terminated assets could possibly expose the existence



of this project, but that seems unlikely from the Headquarters
review of terminated agents witting of present(KDFACTOR
operational activities. A Soviet investigation of property owner-
ship around the Soviet Embassy and their awareness that the
Soviet Embassy was under photographic surveillance in the past
could result in a Soviet investigation of the activities and contacts

(KDABBEY-1, the owner of an apartment building and four ,
houses close to the Soviet Embassy, It is doubtful thatQ@SDABBEY-I's
activities, which do not inter-relate with the activities of the
‘KDFACTOR agents, would in any way expose the(KDFACTOR
Project operational activities, oe

s
rv
2. A brief history of the(KDFACTOR Project:

z

‘The(KDFACTOR Project had its origins in the LIJERSEY
and LIPSTICK Projects, both active in the mid-1960)/g. In 19%59“after
the arrest of two LIPSTICK surveillance team members, it was decided
to break off the more sensitive, uncompromised LIPSTICK assets manning
and supporting two basehouses for photo surveillance of the Soviet Embassy.
These assets were consolidated with one photo basehouse against the Soviet
Embassy and one surveillance team from the LIJERSEY Project intoanew ,
project (LIEMPTY), ,which was approved on 16 January 1969°?The LIEMPTY
Project, renamed the @DF ‘ACTOR Project in 197})""consisted of three photo
basehouses, two viewing the front of the Soviet Embassy (LIMITED and
LILYRIC) and one viewing the rear garden of the Soviet Embassy (LICALLA).
plus a mobile surveillance team (LIENTRAP) tied closely with the LIMITED
basehouse, which was the radio control point for dispatch of the LIENTRAP,.

sh
In 159 the LIENTRAP surveillance vehicle and two team

members were arrested at the scene of a Cuban demonstration in Mexico
City. A Station review of the security implications of this incident stated
that it did not materially affect the security of the project nor expose any

of the LIEMPTY basehouse operations, (Note: As the basehouse operations
were comparimented, the only exposure possible from this incident would
have been of the LIMITED baschouse, which is no longer in existence, )

The LIEMPTY Project operated substantially as above until
the Warren Commission report was published in late 1964, In this publica-
tion was a picture of a person entering the Soviet Embassy taken from the
LIMITED basehouse. The LIMITED photo basehouse wats closed in Sept-
ember 1964, and all photographic surveillance was suspended as a.security
precaution. In January 1965 the LIMITED basehouse was relocated, and

SECRE!


-~3-

Jater that year the building it had previously been in was razed by the
owner ABBEY-1. From 1964 on it must be assumed that the Soviet
Embassy in Mexico City believes it is under regular photographic sur-
veillance.

: Further project changes took place in 1966 when the LILYRIC
baséhouse was relocated to another apartment with approximately the
same view. In May 1968 the LIMITED basehouse was terminated and
LIEMPTY-6, the basehouse keeper, retired. This affected the LIENTRAP
coverage of Soviet vehicular movement monitored and directed from the
LIMITED basehouse. With the closing of LIMITED and the Station decision
to replace Raymond H. GERENDE, Mexican national contract agent who
handled the LIEMPTY Project since its inception, the LIENTRAP mobile
surveillance team was underemployed, and the decision was made to move
it to the LIEMBRACE Project. This was done in early 1970)"soon after
GERENDE had been relieved of operational responsibilities in December
1969.
ok
The photo processing of the &DFacToR (formerly LIEMPTY) e

film take is now being done by the Station. In the past, it was done by
the Station, by GERENDE, and by KDFACTOR-1,,awho was terminated
amicably in early 194)°* The building housing the KDLITERAL (formerly
LICALLA) photo basehouse was purchased in 1967) by DABBEY-1 for
the Station?*KDLITERAL is in a row of four hotfSes all Owned ostensibly
by BBEY-lLbut actually by the Agency. _ This row also houses a base-
house for FID's AULT Project. The apartment building housing the

ee KDABSINTHE (formerly LILYRIC) photo basehouse is owned outright by

o2{KDABBEY-1, who has been most cooperative in assisting the Station in
maintaining and occasionally. moving (1965 and 1966) photo basehouses.
The LIMITED photo basehouse was also located on BBEY-l's property
when it was active. a

The individual basehouse operations are and have always been
compartmented one from the other, The only points of breakdown in the
compartmentation have been: (a) the LIMITED basehouse was linked to
the LIENTRAP mobile surveillance; (b)*&DF ACTOR-1 was processing
films from all the basehouses and could, therefore, be aware, of their
exact locations; (c) GERENDE was aware of all aspects of the DF ACTOR
operation, and has since been terminated; (d) Oliver G, SCANTLING,
Station contract agent retired in 1g7y, was aware of the &&D ACTOR Project

o

SECRET

annie



' pede

through his past work with LIEMPTY-6 and with GERENDE on(KOFACTOR
Project activities; and (e) the fact that the two present basehouse properties
are owned b; (DABBEY-1, who is witting of the locations and general
activity of both(KDFACTOR basehouses. :

e ra

oe
3. Agents and Case Officers presently active in the(KDFACTOR i
Project: i

As of March 1972, Oliver J. MANKUNAS is the case officer
responsible for handling the operations 0! GDF ACTOR; Bruce H. FERNALD

is the alternate case officer, The following is a list of active agents in the
(KDFACTOR Project:

ok az 08.
A. (KDFACTOR-2 (201-(36454))
DATE OF OA: 27 December 1456)°4
DATE SGSWIRLED: 27 April 1966
PRESENT POSITION“KDLITERAL Basehouse Operator
COVER: Accountant for a local bus line - works cover
2 job in the evenings.
°

o
B. (KDFACTOR-5 (201419961)
DATE OF OA: 9 May 1956)°4
DATE SGSWIRLED: 2 March 1966
PRESENT POSITION?" BSINTHE Basehouse Operator
COVER: Industrial engineer - works cover job during
the day.

ol 0
C. @DFACTOR-6 (201-(67567))
DATE OF OA: 16 October 1967
DATE SGSWIRLED: March 1966 o2
PRESENT POSITION: Wife of(KDFACTOR-5.

Co~&D}BSINTHE Basehouse Operator
COVER:. Housewife or

6
D. {nFACTOR-8 (201-(162111))

DATE OF OA: 29 November 1965

DATE SGSWIRLED: 3 March 1966.2.

PRESENT POSITION: Son of (DFACTORs-5 and 6.
Part-time BDARSINTHE Basehouse
Keeper/Operator. '

COVER: Part-time shopping (shopper) investigator for

Sears Roebuck de Mexico.

‘lp ee


pl

E. «X¥acror- 9 aes
. DATE OF OA: 27 July 1966
DATE SGSWIRLED: 3 March 1966. Spe
PRESENT POSITION: Son of (KDFACTORs- 5 and 6,
Part- -time KDABSINTHE Basehouse
Keeper/Operator,
COVER: Medical student

pas O!
. (DFACTOR-10 (201-€54181)
DATE OF OA: 14 September 1959)
DATE SGSWIRLED: Not tested
PRESENT POSITION: Non-salaried. Wife of ae 25
(@DLITERAL).
COVER: Housewife

G. (KOABBEY o
DATE OF OA: 28 Aprilsi9647
DATE SGSWIRLED: Not tested
PRESENT POSITION: Non-salaried, President of
0% (Construcciones Aztlan) Owner
and landlord of(KDV,AULT and
o2(KD¥F ACTOR basehoitSes,

¥
Regarding the security. of the, above active FACTOR agents,
the QKDLITERAL basehouse is handled by FACTOR- with the assistance
of his wife? {KD¥ ACTOR- 10. They have a long-time maid and a 13-year-
old son who lives with them in the basehouse. Neither the son nor the maid
is believed to be witting. The photographic equipment is kept in a locked
room, and the product is kept in a locked safe.-(KDFACTOR-2 was recruited
by(KDCALVERT- 1, who is an active, long-term Station agent in the

ot (KDCALVERT Project and who is not considered a threat to@<DFACTOR-2's

security?’ 'ACTOR-2's activities are also known to his brother, the
former LIPSTICK-47, 10 was one of the two LIPSTICK surveillance team
members arrested in "96 and who gave the police considerable information
regarding: pen ICK surveillance activities. LIPSTICK-47 was terminated
in tale GYM is believed to haye withheld from the police the inforniuttion
regarding GDE PACTOR- 2 and the GDLITE RAL lesan Poa tel 2
and his fami. vt have occupied the LITERAL basehouse since 1967);

have been diserect and security¢onscious in their dealings with a fe
and relatives,

SECRET

atin.


4lpJ

ie Fercopeasitcnssiee deco ronaaaanaagaaaassaaaaaadaaardad

of
oz The (DABSINTHE basehguse is manned by

» 9
hg FACTOR-5, his
wife KDFACTOR-6, and his two sons(KDFACTOR-8 and (KDFACTOR-9,
The SGSWIRL of 2 March 1966 went into detail on who i8¢witting of
o2(KDFACTOR-5's work for the Station, The result was that his immediate
family, including a married daughter who no longer lives at the basehouse,
are aware of the photographic operation. °(KDF ACTOR-5 was recruited by
LIEMPTY-1l2, a U. S. citizen with a private company in Mexico City who
is no longer working with the Station but who is considered patriotic and
no threat to GQFACTOR security.
°

4, Terminated Agents Possibly Affecting Present Project Security:
A, Raymond H. GERENDE

GERENDE is a Mexican citizen and was a contract agent
until his termination,gn 26 June isp? He had been employed by the Station
intermittently since 1865)and was used almost exclusively in support activities,
Since the start of the LIEMPTY Project in 1959), ERENDE had been directly
involved with this project serving as cutout to thé basehouses, carrying and
processing films, and giving general direction to the project as principal
agent. In 1969)*after years of excellent service with the Station, GERENDE

had serious marital problems which ended in separation from his wife,

o2(KDFACTOR-7. From December 1969)fo June 1%70)GERENDE was not used

operationally but was maintained on half pay-with the hope the divorce pro-
ceedings would be completed quickly. When it became apparent the divorce
would drag on interminably, the Station reluctantly terminated GERENDE
and his wife, Bruce H. FERNALD, caregr agent, met with GERENDE
monthly from July doy: rough May ia dolhite paying him his termination
bonus in ten installments. GERENDE is still living in Mexico City, where
he owns some property and has an income as an English teacher to employees
of two local firms. He visited his wife and children in Holland in December
1970, It appears he may now be financially pressed as his Epglish class
schedule has been cut back, The Station as of 10 April 1972) fad no informa-
Gion that would indicate GE RENDE has viokued his secrecy agreement,

There is an indication that GERENDE came to the attention
of the Soviets in 1968. A Mexican walk-in to the FBI office in Mexico City,
who was later interrogated by the Federal Security Police in 1970, said
that in 1968 he had been employed by the Soviet Embassy Second Secretary,
Oleg Masksimovich Nechiporenko (201-305870), to investigdte persons
working with the Mexican Olympic Committee. The persons investigated


- py

included GERENDE, who apparently became a Specific target of Soviet
investigation. It is unclear from the report of the Federal Security Police
how far the Soviet investigation of GERENDE had proceeded. Nechiporenko
was PNG'd from Mexico in March 1971, GERENDE's possible exposure to
the Soviets could have been through his work on the Olympic Committee as
a translator or through his work for the Station, which used him for a wide
range of support tasks against the Soviet and Cuban targets.

oe
B. GDFACTOR-7 (wife of GERENDE)

oz
&DFACTOR-7 is a Dutch citizen and the former wife of
GERENDE. She returned to the Netherlands in July 1970 with her children,
She had served as a support agent assisting GERENDE. She is believed
witting, in general terms, of GERENDE's activities regarding the &DEACTOR
Project, She was terminated on 26 June.1970)8hd signed both a secrecy’
agreement and quit claim, After termination it became apparent that she
had considerable hard feelings toward both the Agency and GERENDE over
financial problems between her family and GERENDE. While the Station
was not directly involved in all the financial problems, the Station was
involved in regard to her divorce claims against GERENDE's salary, a
large part of which came covertly from the Station, In July 1970 @DEACTOR-'
came to the Agency Headquarters and complained about her financial settle-
ment, In September and November 1970 she wrote two letters directly to
the Agency on the same subject. In late 1970 she also asked a Hague Embassy
political officer to put her in contact with the Agency; however, she did not
tell him the nature of her business. In January 1971 the Agency contacted
°2(KDFACTOR-T's brother, a U. S. Army civilian with a "Top Secret" clearance
living in Alexandria, J/irginia, and was able to resolve the financial mis-
understandings with(KDFACTOR-7. In January 197 station) 15-6
reported’ SFACTOR had, withoutGtati n)influence, obtained.a job as’social
secretary with the Department of Staté &t the Embassy. . It is believed that
this job has probably solved many-of her financial problems and should also
inhibit her from exposing her past work with the Mexico City Station, as
such exposure could jeopardize her job. The Embassy in the Hague was
briefed in general terms on &ODF CTOR-7's background,

oz
c. &DFACTOR-1

ot
(KDFACTOR-1 is a Mexican citizen apa the brother-in-law
of GERENDE. He was hired by the Station in 1956 to assist GERENDE in
processing the photographic take of thé &(DFACTOR Projett (at that time
the LIPSTICK Project and later the LIEMPTY Project). QUFACTOR-1
8

SE!



Aly

was later assisted in processing the photographic take by his wife,

LIEMPTY-5, who is GERENDE's sister?* 'ACTOR-1 was terminated

in March 147)?*and the photographic processing previously done by
o(KDFACTOR-1 is now done in the Station, The termination was amicable

and largely due to delays in film processing as(KDFACTOR-I's medical

practice expanded, There does not appear to be any security problem

_in the termination of DFACTOR-1 as he is discreet and also,a close

relative of GERENDE¥2 The security of processing the film in(SDFACTOR-1'

medical office was good as ‘“ACTOR-I's wife, LIEMPTY-5, was assist-

ing him with the processing and’ with the security of the darkroom,

D. LIEMPTY-5

: 9
oz LIEMPTY-5 was hired by the Station in 196 Dto assist
(KDFACTOR-1 with the processing of KDFACTOR films. She is the sister
of GERENDE and wife of (DFACTOR-1.°*She was terminated along with

02 DFACTOR-1 in March 197)oqDue to her close relationship with GERENDE

and &DFACTOR-1, she is not considered a threat to the Project Security.

oO
* “. gE. Oliver G, SCANTLING

09. SCANTLING is a Mexican citizen who worked as a Station
agent from 1964 until his termination without prejudice in February 1 1) of
SCANTLING is in an excellent financial position and has assisted the
Station in recent years largely because his strong motivation to work
against the Communists, a SCANTLING worked as a surveillance team
leader from 1964)t 196) and then in the LIEMPT ¥, (DF ACTOR) Project
from 1968), rough 1966. He was the cut-out to LIEMPTY-6 and a back-up
principal agent for GERENDE, SCANTLING's termination was ia
and he is not considered a security problem to the Station or the ACTOR
Project. . de

F. LIEMPTY-6

LIEMPTY-6, a Mexican citizen and long-term Station
asset, was retired in May 1968, He had manned the LIMITED photo base-
house with his wife and son assisting him. He had been working with the
Station since 15 4Abut age and ill health had reduced his efficiency.
LIEMPTY-6 knows GERENDE and SCANTLING, but is not aware of the
names or locations of any of the preseft K)FACTOR agents and basehouses,
While he could give information on his participation in ‘ACTOR activities
up to 1968, he has no motive to do this and is apparently happily retired on
his Agency termination bonus plus some financial assistance from his son-
in-law. He is not considered a threat to the security of this Project.

SECRET


13-00000 ,
arnt i. ae ‘

eran rareeenenrareaennenst tte

( : ee (

There was one indication that the Soviets were seeking
out the LIMITED photo basehouse a id may*have had suspicions concerning
LIEMPTY-6. This was a report by JADAGE-10 that in mid-1966 Stanislav
Sergeyevich Silnikov (201-271103), a Soviet Embassy guard, asked KDADAGE
10 to report on his neighbors near the Soviet Embassy. Silnikov expressed
interest in all the occupants of the new apartment building which houses the
oz(KDABSINTHE photo basehouse, ‘but did not mention the (KDABSINTHE base-
house keepers by name, Silnikov did name specific persons he was inter-
ested in and these included LIEMPTY-6.“KDADAGE-10, of unknown
reliability, said he did not give Silnikov any information, but added that,
between himself and the Station, he suspected LIEMPTY-6 and had heard
it rumored he worked for the Americans. In 1966 Headquarters already
assumed the Soviets were aware of the LIMITED basehouse because it was
used for radio direction of the LIENTRAP mobile surveillance. In any case,
the Soviets apparently took no action prior to the closing of the LIMITED
basehouse and the relocation of LIEMPTY-6 in May 1968, It is believed
this incident has no implications that would threaten the security of current
(KDFACTOR assets,
92

cya
5. Current (DFACTOR Security Practices:

ae ot
The two photo basehouses,(KDLITERAL and(KDABSINTHE

remain compartmented, as they have been throughout the history of the

Project.,, The Station case officer pee tee the project meets weekly *

with(KDFACTOR-2, responsible for the KDLITERAL basehouse, and with
02(KDFACTOR-5, responsible for thé KDABSINTHE basehouse. In these

meetings he picks up the product, provides new supplies, pays salaries

and handles miscellaneous administrative matters, These are car meetings

usually held in early morning or at night and the pickup points are changed

regularly. Meeting time is kept to a minimum and meetings are pre-

scheduled whenever possible. The photographic product is processed in

the Station, thus increasing the security and timeliness of its handling

over the past practice of having KDFACTOR-I process it in his office

darkroom, The case officer only’mheets with EDF ACTOR-2 and KDFACTOR

however, in emergencies other witting family members of either basehouse

can be contacted and met, In case the present sites or personnel are com-

promised, the Station has rented another apartment in the building housing

the GDABSINTHE basehouse and has installed members of the LVERT

Project as residents, This new apartment offers as good a vantage point

SeCRET
TALING

| _ ADDP MEMO of 14 December 197$ Ren —

Tris rt

olny


-- 10 =
( (

oe
for pholographic coverage as the(KDABSINTHE and could quickly be
activated if for any reason the KDABSINTHE basehouse becomes
untenable, ok

Siam G, Shackley May

Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

Onl (2 Wa, 7
a nd Mle. Wego. Date + fA

SECRET

not ee TRING
| ADDP MEMO of 14 December 197# wm SO
xp

