# 104-10337-10011

## Page 1

1104-10337-10011

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

Orico diont

Congics

= CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY:

1 June 1993

John:

This is the package of JFK material

from the Ford Library we talked about.

today.

We received this package from

Steve Katz, Counsel to the Senate

Governmental Affairs Committee.

If you have any questions about

this, please call me at 37914 (secure).

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Gerald R. Ford Library

1985

1000 Beal Avenue Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

Date

: July 29, 1992

Reply to: Karen Holzhausen, Ford Library KN

Subject: Rockefeller Commission files information

-TON TO

ANDIOR

WARSORIMATION

IN THIS GOGUNGNT 2

i in me done. de

To

: Steve Katz, Senate Committee on Government Affairs

Enclosed are the finding aid to the Rockefeller Commission files

we have processed, copies of all the withdrawal sheets, and some

explanatory information.

About the withdrawal sheets: When we remove a classified

document from a folder we record more information for

administrative purposes than you find on these withdrawal sheets.

The data put into such fields as creator's agency, classifying

and special markings are

Our

computer program was designed to produce these abbreviated public

descriptions because some agencies, chiefly the CIA, do not want

to be public identified as the originator of specific documents.

We have made the withdrawal sheets for the Rockefeller Commission

items we have processed more explicit than normal practice

because the Church Committee published the gist of most of these

documents in 1975, identifying the CIA connection.

But, because

of the software limitations, the computer cannot print

"agency" data on the short form.

the

I think there is enough information for you to deduce the

originating agency for most of these documents. Most of them

were supplied to the Rockefeller Commission by the CIA, although

many of them are of interagency origin.

If you have questions

about particular sheets, please don't hesitate to call me.

We may find that some, perhaps many, of these documents have

already been declassified, but rather than take the time to

research all of them and delay "opening" the collection, we

simply "pink sheeted" everything and will wait to see what

happens with the proposed review commission.

systematically declassified, we will research them individually

as they are requested under mandatory review.

A Presidential Library Administered by the National Archives and Records Administrasion

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DA SPECIAL CELECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

Presidential Libraries - Review of JEK Records

Contacts

Ford:

Karen Holzhausen

Lessa Tobin

(313-741-2218)

Johnson: Tina Houston

(512-482-5137)

Kennedy:

Susanne Forbes

(617-729-4582)

LOG

2 Sept 1994 - Meeting with Steve Tilley, NARA

Recommended that we begin with the Ford Library. The

Rockefeller Commission holdings are there and they contain

most, if not all, assassination related records that are at

the Johnson and Kennedy Libraries.

12 Sept 1994 - phone conversation with Lessa Tobin (Ford)

They have screened the Rockefeller Commission material

and identified JFK assassination records. They have 1400

items in their data base and 6-7 feet of material to be

reviewed. They estimate that 80% of the records contain CIA

equities.

They would welcome reviewers this Fall (the sooner the

better since Ms. Tobin is going on maternity leave in

January) .

13 Sept 1994 - Meeting with C/HRG.

Briefed him on my phone call. The Ford Library is not

a one man job.

6-7 feet of material translates into 13-

15,000 pages.

It could take 2-3 people a week or more to

complete an initial review and would probably have to send

material back to HRG for review and coordination.

Told him

I plan request a list of the 1400 items in the data base and

needed to discuss specific procedures (handling documents

copying,

redaction, etc.) with Karen Holzhausen. She is on

leave this week.

He suggested mid October as a

possible

date for trip.

14 Sept 1994 - phone call with Lessa Tobin

She confirmed size of file -- approximately 13-15,000

pages (does not have a specific page count -- using same

rule as HRG, 2200 pages per foot).

The 1400 items are the

number of Iden Aids prepared for NARA. She will send me a v

complete set.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Presidential Libraries (Ford)

JFK Assassination Records (pulled from Rockefeller

Commission Holdings)

1400 items - 6-7 ft of material

The Rockefeller Commission investigated allegations

concerning the CIA involvement in the Assassination

of

President Kennedy (p251-269 of the June 1975 Report...)

Allegations:

Hunt and Sturgis in Dillas (3 derelicts)

CIA relationship with Oswald through anti-Castro Cubans

(Hunt appears to be focus)

CIA relationship with Ruby via Sturgis

Hunt and Oswald in Mexico City

If most of the material deals with the above allegations,

the bulk of it will be released with minimal or no

redactions.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Gerald R. Ford Library

For T

1000 Beal Avenue Aun Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

September 20, 1994

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DEOLASSAEIOARION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CUWFORMATION

IN TRES DOCKENT

Mr. Barry Harrelson

Central Intelligence Agency

Center for the Study of Intelligence/HRG

402 Ames Building

Washington, D.C. 20505

:

Dear Mr. Harrelson:

I am sending out to you today by registered mail the document

identification forms for all of the Kennedy assassination materials

identified in the Ford Library whose status was recorded as "postponed".

This includes forms for about 1,000 items. This package does not

include identification forms for the 400 items whose status is "opened".

Also enclosed is a list explaining the shorthand collection titles we used

on the identification forms.

Karen Holzhausen and I produced forms for all of the materials we

identified, including all duplicates. In some cases there were two, three

or four copies of the same document located in different files.

We've

developed a system to keep track of those duplicates which we can

explain to your people when they arrive.

Karen and I are very much looking forward to your visit this fall but we

have lots of questions about how the process will work. Will you know

which items have already been declassified elsewhere? Will you be able

to recognize and act on non-CIA originated documents which have been

acted on at other repositories? Will you have to see the originals of each

item which are scattered throughout our vault collections, or can you just

examine the copy set we created during the identification process? Is

there anything we could be doing to help prepare for your visit? Will

there be follow-up work for us to do after you leave?

A Presidential Library Administered by the National Archites and Records Administration

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Finally, to help you with your planning, I enclose our transportation and

accommodations handout and, for your information, a copy of the

finding aid to the Rockefeller Commission Files and a guide to the

Library's complete holdings.

We look forward to hearing from you after

you assess what kind of a job we have waiting for you here!

Sincerely,

lusa TR

Leesa Tobin

Archivist

313/741-2218

Enclosures

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Gerald R. Ford Library

1000 Beal Avenue Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

U.S. PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES

WITHIN THE UNITED STATES:

Files, [1947-1974] 1975

SUMMARY DESCRIPTION

The U.S. President's Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States (also

known as the Rockefeller Commission) was charged with investigating allegations

of improper CIA activities within U.S. borders. The files consist of documents

created by the Commission in the course of its work (correspondence, testimony,

report drafts, etc.), as well as historical documents and exhibit items collected

during its investigation.

The portions of the file which are available for research (2.5 cubic feet) deal with

the investigation of possible CIA involvement in the assassination of President John

F. Kennedy or in anti-Castro plots of the early 1960s.

QUANTITY

41 cubic feet (ca. 82,000 pp.)

DONOR

Gerald R. Ford (Accession numbers 81-23 and 78-56)

ACCESS

Materials related to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy or to anti-

Castro activities, 1960-64, have been processed for research. A significant

portion of this material is security classified and accessible only through

researcher-initiated declassification review. The bulk of the Commission files are

unprocessed.

A Presidensial Library Adminissered by the Narional Archives and Records Administration

---

## Page 8

13-00000

COPYRIGHT

Works prepared by U.S. Government employees as part of their official duties

are in the public domain. In addition, Mr. Ford has donated to the United

States of America his copyright interest in any other of his writings that might

be included in this collection. The copyright interest to materials written by

other individuals or organizations is presumed to remain with them.

Prepared by:

Karen Holzhausen

May 31, 1992

---

## Page 9

13-00000

U.S. PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES

WITHIN THE UNITED STATES: FILES RELATED TO THE

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

INTRODUCTION

President Gerald R. Ford created the Commission on CIA Activities within the

United States on January 4, 1975. He directed the Commission to determine

whether or not any domestic CIA activities exceeded the Agency's statutory

authority and to make appropriate recommendations. He appointed Vice President

Nelson A. Rockefeller chairman of the Commission. (The Commission is often

referred to as the "Rockefeller Commission.") Other members were John T.

Connor, C. Douglas Dillon, Erwin N. Griswold, Lane Kirkland, Lyman L.

Lemnitzer, Ronald Reagan, and Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. David W. Belin, a former

staff member of the Warren Commission, was named Executive Director. Named

Senior Counsel were Harold A. Baker, Ernest Gellhom, Robert B. Olsen, and

William W. Schwarzer. Counsel were Marvin L. Gray, Jr.; George A. Manfredi;

James N. Roethe; and James B. Weidner. Ronald J. Greene served as Special

Counsel. Staff members were R. Mason Cargill, Peter R. Clapper, and Timothy S.

Hardy.

The Commission looked into all aspects of CIA operations within the United

States. Its report, submitted to the President in June 1975, lists the following

significant areas of investigation: mail intercepts; Intelligence Community

coordination; "Operation CHAOS" (collecting information on dissidents); protection

of the Agency against threats of violence; other investigations by the Office of

Security; involvement of the CIA in improper activities for the White House

(including Watergate); domestic activities of the Directorate of Operations;

domestic activities of the Directorate of Science and Technology; CLA relationships

with other federal, state, and local agencies; indices and files on American citizens;

and allegations concerning the assassination of President Kennedy. The

Commission also looked into the legal authority of the CIA and its internal and

external controls.

One area on which the Commission collected evidence, but did not include in

its report, was the role of the CIA in assassination plots against foreign leaders.

The study focused on plots against Fidel Castro of Cuba, Rafael Trujillo of the

Dominican Republic, and Patrice Lumumba of the Congo. The Commission was

primarily interested in seeing if these plots involved any domestic illegal activities,

such as connections with organized crime, as had been alleged. The report states

- 3-

---

## Page 10

13-00000

that the Commission did not have time to complete the study, so it was turning the

materials over to the White House.

The processed segment of this collection consists of materials identified as

seing related to either the John Kennedy assassination or to plots against Castro

The anti-Castro materials are included because of allegations that Castro or his

supporters were part of a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy as retribution.

THE INVESTIGATION OF THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

The Commission investigated allegations that the CIA was somehow involved in

the assassination of President Kennedy. Specifically, it looked into allegations that

E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis were CIA agents and were present in Dallas

("the derelicts") at the time of the assassination and could have fired the alleged

shots from the grassy knoll. It also investigated claims that the CIA had

relationships with Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby.

The Commission heard testimony, taped interviews, took depositions, consulted

experts in forensic pathology and ballistics, examined photographic evidence, and

requested documents from various intelligence and law enforcement agencies. The

Commission concluded that the findings of the Warren Commission regarding a

lone assassin were correct and that Hunt and Sturgis were not the derelicts. No

concrete evidence was presented to link Oswald or Ruby to the CIA; the

Commission concluded that the allegations were "farfetched speculation."

DESCRIPTION OF PROCESSED FILES

These files contain two distinct types of material. I will refer to the first type

as Kennedy assassination materials and the second type as anti-Castro materials,

although both types were selected because of their possible connection to the

Kennedy assassination.

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION MATERIALS: Most relate to the allegation

that CIA operatives (possibly in the persons of E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis)

fired shots from the "grassy knoll" in Dealey Plaza at the time of the Kennedy

shooting. Also considered was the allegation that Oswald and/or Jack Ruby had

connections with the CIA. Witnesses, many of whom were unsolicited, provided

testimony and exhibits supporting or refuting those allegations. The findings of the

Warren Commission regarding Oswald as a lone assassin and the single-bullet

theory were considered through analysis of photographs and the Zapruder film,

examination of Kennedy autopsy materials by a panel of medical consultants, sworn

testimony, and examination of documents from the CIA and other agencies. A

copy of the Zapruder film, lent by Robert Groden, is in the collection.

- 4-

---

## Page 11

13-00000

There are also drafts of Chapter 19 of the Commission report, which deals with

this aspect of the investigation.

ANTI-CASTRO MATERIALS: They consist primarily of copies of

"historical" documents provided to the Commission by the CIA, predominantly, and

the State Department, Defense Intelligence Agency, and Justice Department. The

documents deal mainly with planning for covert operations in Cuba, 1960-64,

including assassination attempts on Fidel Castro, but also include some interspersed

materials on the Trujillo and Lumumba assassinations. The Cuba documents

include some items on the Bay of Pigs invasion and the Cuban missile crisis, but by

far the bulk of the material relates to Operation MONGOOSE. Included are

minutes of meetings of the various special groups assigned to planning anti-Castro

operations, reports on the operations, and memoranda between the individuals

involved.

Also included in the "Assassination Materials" processed are transcripts of

sworn testimony and interviews conducted by Rockefeller Commission staff with

former CIA, State Department, and Defense Department officials from the 1960s

regarding what they knew about plans to assassinate foreign leaders and about the

connection between the Cuba operations and organized crime.

SELECTED RELATED MATERIALS (JUNE 1992):

The Congressional Files of Gerald R. Ford contain materials related to his

service on the Warren Commission (17 cubic feet). The Records of the U.S.

Department of the Army, Military District of Washington, Directorate of

Ceremonies and Special Events contain approximately two cubic feet of records on

the transport of President Kennedy's remains, his funeral ceremony and interment,

and administration of the gravesite. These materials are open for research.

The Presidential Handwriting File and the files of Presidential counsel Philip

Buchen contain materials on the intelligence investigations of the mid-1970s,

including the Rockefeller Commission. These collections are open for research.

The Ford Presidential Papers may contain additional materials related generally to

he Rockefeller Commission or congressional investigations of the intelligenc

community. Use the PRESNET database to locate them.

The neighboring Bentley Historical Library holds papers of John Stiles relating

to his collaboration with Gerald Ford on Portrait of the Assassin, a book about Lee

Harvey Oswald which grew out of Ford's work on the Warren Commission.

- 5-

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Additional materials on the Rockefeller Commission or plots against Fidel

Castro are in unprocessed collections or unprocessed series of open collections.

These include about 3,000 pages of collected historical documents, which. continue

to be heavily classified, gathered by the White House on anti-Castro activities.

[NOTE: For additional information regarding the acquisition and processing of the

Kennedy and anti-Castro files from this collection, please see MEMO FOR THE

FILE, dated June 8, 1992, which is appended to this finding aid.]

- 6

---

## Page 13

13-00000

Container

1

2

3

Contents

Belin-Gray-Greene Files

B-G-G (II-AA), Memoranda to Legal Staff

B-G-G (IVK),

Background Material on Oswald and Warren

Commission

B-G-G (IV-T), Withholding of Evidence from the Warren

Commission

Baker-Weidner Files

B-W (II-B), Mr. Hunt's File-Mr. Clapper

Olsen-Roethe Files

O-R

(I-X), Gregory, Schoenman, Groden & Jaffe

O-R (I-AA), Hunt, E. Howard--Interviewed 3/4/75

O-R

(I-00), Sturgis, Frank

0-R

(I-X&) :

Chapman, E. Forrest

0-R

0-R

(III-Á), Staff Interview Transcript-March 26, 1975,

(1)

(111 A), Staff Interview Transcript-March 26,

1975, (2)

0-R

(III-A), Staff Interview Transcript-March 26, 1975, (3)

0-R

(III-A),

Staff

Interview Transcript-March 26, 1975,

(4)

O-R

Staff

Interview Transcript-March 26, 1975,

(5)

0-R

(TII-A) e

Staff

Interview

Transcript-March 26,

1975,

(6)

0-R

(III-A) o

Staff Interview Transcript-March 26, 1975, (7)

Olsen-Roethe Files

0-R (III-A), Extra Copies of All Gregory Related Exhibits,

O-R (III-A), Ralph Schoenman, Re Robert Kennedy

Assassination, (9)

O-R (III-B), Staff

Interview Transcript--Marchetti, April

3, 1975

• (III-C), Frank Sturgis Testimony Transcript, April 3,

1975,

O-R (III-C), Frank Sturgis Testimony Transcript, April 3,

1975, (2)

O-R (III-D), Frank Sturgis Testimony and Tapes, 4-4-75

O-R (III-E), John K. Lattimer Testimony Transcript, May 7,

1975, (1)

O-R (III-E), John K. Lattimer Exhibits, 1975

O-R (III-F), Staff

Interview Transcript--Wecht, May 7,

1975, (1)

O-R (III-F), Staff Interview Transcript--Wecht, May 7,

O-R (III-F), Cyril H. Wecht--Exhibits, (3)

Olsen-Roethe Files

O-R (III-G), Staff Interview Transcript--April 18, 1975

O-R (V-A), FBI Lab Reports--Hunt & Sturgis Photos

O-R (V-B), Kennedy Assassination--Miscellaneous Notes

O-R (V-C), Kennedy Assassination--Panel of Medical

Consultants, (d)

O-R (V-C), Kennedy Assassination--Panel of Medical

Consultants, (2)

O-R (V-D), FBI Material re Kennedy Assassination

- 7

---

## Page 14

13-00000

Container

4

5

Contents

O-R (V-E), NPIC Analysis of Zapruder Filming of John F.

Kennedy Assassination

O-R (V-F), Kennedy Assassination--Paul Hoch Letter re

Warren Commission, (Also see "Requests for Info--CIA),

(1)

O-R (V-F), Kennedy Assassination--Paul Hoch Letter re

Warren

1 Commission, (Also see "Requests for Info--CIA),

(2)

O-R (V-F), Kennedy Assassination--Paul Hoch Letter re

Warren Commission, (Also see "Requests for Info--CIA),

O-R (V-G), Kennedy Assassination--Medical and Scientific

Articles, (1)

O-R (V-G), Kennedy Assassination--Medical and Scientific

Articles, (2)

O-R (V-G) .

Kennedy Assassination--Medical and Scientific

Articles, (3)

Olsen-Roethe Files

O-R (V-H), Kennedy Assassination--General Correspondence

OR (V-]): Selected Documents Relating to Allegations

Concerning the Assassination of President Kennedy, (1)

Selected Documents Relating

to Allegations

o-Poncerning the Assassination of President Kennedy, (2)

O-R (V-K), Lattimer, John

O-R (V-I) , Wecht, Cyril H.

O-R (VI-C), Requests for Information--CIA

399/27/75 Ilm loaned to Commission by Robert Groden on

Assassination Files

Assassination Materials, "Misc. Materials (3)"

Assassination

Materials--"Interviews (3)"

Assassination Materials, "CIA Correspondence (3)" .

Assassination Files

Assassination Materials, "Correspondence (2)"

Assassination Materials, Deposition of a CIA Employee

Assassination Materials,

Deposition of Edw. G. Lansdale

Assassination Materials, Deposition of Edw. G. Lansdale

(portion)

Assassination Materials, Review of Dulles Crono (sic) re

Kennedy Assassination

Assassination Materials,

"Sturgis (2)"

Assassination Materials,

"What Could Castro Have Known?"

Assassination Materials, CIA Connections with Organized

• Crime

Assassination Materials, CIA Relationship with Robert A.

Maheu

Assassination Materials, "Affidavits (2)"

Assassination

Materials, "Chron--Assassinations (2)

Assassination Materials,

Reguest of 8 Apr 75--Mongoose

Assassination

Materials, L. Fletcher Pourty

- 8 -

---

## Page 15

13-00000

Container

6

Contents

Assassination Materials, Miscellaneous Rockefeller

assassination Materials.

Commission and CIA Filesiscellaneous Rockefeller

commission and CIA Files, (2

assassination Materials, Miscellaneous Rockefeller

Commission and CIA FiLes. (3

Assassination Materials. Miscellaneous Rockefeller

Commission and CIA Files, (4)

Assassination Files

Assassination Materials, Miscellaneous Rockefeller

Commission and CIA Files, (5

issassination Materials, Miscellaneous Rockefeller

Assassination Materials, Miscellaneous Rockefeller

Commission and CIA Files, (7

Assassination Materials, Miscellaneous Rockefelle

Commission and CIA Files, (12)

Assassination Materials, Project (Name Classified)

chapter Drafts

chapter 19 Drafts.

(1)

Chapter

• 19 Drafts, (2)

---

## Page 16

13-00000

Gerald R. Ford Library

1000 Beal Avenue Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

Date

: June 10, 1992

Reply to: Karen Holzhausen

Subject :

Kennedy Assassination materials in Rockefeller

Commission

To

3 THE FILE

ACQUISITION OF COMMISSION FILES

The Ford Library holds two sets of files of the President's

Commission on CIA Activities within the United States

(Rockefeller Commission) •

The first received, a copy set which

was kept at the white House when the originals were transferred

to the Justice Department in June of 1975, was received via the

National Archives on March 1, 1978.

The originals came later, in

November of 1980.

The copy set is somewhat smaller than the

original set because some administrative materials were not

copied. It is the Kennedy-related materials in the original set

which have been processed in part and made available for

research.

The Ford Library received these materials under the terms of

President Ford's deed of gift.

PROCESSING THE FILES RELATED TO THE KENNEDY ASSASBINATION

In early 1992, President Ford stated publicly that he

favored the opening of currently closed files on the Kennedy

assassination and

investigations thereof.

The Ford Library

notified him that the Rockefeller Commission files contained

materia. related to the assassination and that staff planned to

consolidate those materials and process them for opening. He

endorsed this action.

The task of selecting Kennedy materials was not an easy one,

and Library staff do not claim to have found every document.

Archivists had a rough finding aid that came with the collection,

consisting of folder titles and,

in some cases, lists of

documents within folders.

The materials were organized by

Commission staff team not by subject.

Because Robert Olsen and

James Roethe had primary responsibility for investigating

possible CIA connections with the assassination, archivists

started with their files.

Within the Olsen-Roethe files there

was an identified Kennedy assassination series, which archivists

pulled first and examined. Based on their reading of those

files, and other background research, archivists were able to

examine the folder title list for the complete collection and

identify relevant folders in other staff files.

A Presidential Library Administered by the National Archives and Records Administration

---

## Page 17

13-00000

There was also about a cubic foot of material called

"Assassination Materials" which was not connected with a specific

Commission staff team. In it were documents regarding plans for

or discussions of actions against Castro, Trujillo, and Lumumba.

Those folders which appeared to have anything to do with Castro

were pulled for processing because of the issue of a possible

link between U.S. attempts to assassinate Castro and the Kennedy

assassination.

No attempt was made to go through the whole collection to

search for stray materials.

Nor could archivists identify all

the people whose names appeared on folders--they may have missed

some simply because they did not know of a connection.

Folders

identified only by date of testimony were also not examined. So,

Ford Library archivists believe that processing of the full

collection may eventually lead to the discovery of additional

Kennedy material.

DESCRIPTION OF PROCESSED MATERIALS (2.5 cubic feat) Eplur Oct 1992

Archivists pulled and processed slightly over two cubic feet

of material.

(This is from the original files only.) Of the

4759 pages,

plus audiovisual material, approximately 68% (3232

pages) dealt with the investigation of a possible direct CIA

connection with the Kennedy assassination.

This material was

pulled from staff files and chapter drafts.

The other 32% (1527 pages) consisted of materials related to

the investigation of CIA involvement in anti-Castro activities

during the early 1960s.

This was pulled from a series called

"Assassination Materials," which was different from the body of

the Commission files in that the folder titles were not coded and

numbered and there seemed to be less organization within the

files.

REMOVAL OF CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS

From the processed materials, archivists removed

approximately 450 documents for national security reasons.

of

the 450 documents, 29% were classified Top Secret, 48% were

Secret, 3% were Confidential, and 19% were unmarked. . A few

CODEWORD documents were found. Just over 60% of the withdrawn

items were dated between 1960

and 1964.

Thirty-two percent were

from 1975, created during the tenure of the Commission.

There were classified documents from several agencies but

about 64% were created by CIA or had "CIA interest."

additional 25% would be considered White House documents for

declassification purposes (including NSC/interagency documents

from the 1960s as well as the classified materials originated by

the Rockefeller Commission itself).

State, Defense Department,

Army, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Federal Bureau of Investigation

account for the rest. There were only four FBI documents.

---

## Page 18

13-00000

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION MATERIALS: Most is unclassified and

is open for research.

The 16% that is classified is mainly

testimony which includes information on CIA operations.

ANTI-CASTRO MATERIALS: Approximately 87% is classified, and

much of the unclassified materia is simply requests for

documents, transmittal memos, and cover sheets. Therefore much

of this section is unavailable for research until it can be

reviewed by the CIA or other originating agency.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

148,

Gerald R. Ford Library

1000 Beal Avenue

Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

GUIDE TO HISTORICAL MATERIALS

in the

GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY

September 1994

CI4 HAST"CC SOTIONTO

DECLASSIF CAUUN AND/OR

RELEASE OF CI' INFORMATION

IN THIS COCUIENT

By David A. Horrocks

Supervisory Archivist

1/34

Telephone 313/741-2218

Fax 313/741-2341

734

alrewremmmlsorr.dromnwenndngne.deenomd.t0/wesc1066kecenid..omis.ties

---

## Page 20

13-00000

CIA SPECIA

Memo for the Record

2000

Subject:

Review of JFK files at Ford Presidential

Library, November 14-17, 1994

Reviewers:

HRG - Barry Harrelson, Kathy Puchnick

DO -

Ford Library Staff: Karen Holzhausen

Leesa Tobin

1). HRG reviewers arrived in Ann Arbor late Monday morning

and begin reviewing material that afternoon.

After the

first day the hours were set for 7:30 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.

2) The Ford

Library Staff had done an outstanding job

preparing the documents for our review. Copies had been

made and were in chrono order.

Each document was index and

had an identification aid attached.

Karen and Leesa made

themselves

available for questions; if we needed to see the

original file or document they provided it immediately.

3) We reviewed each document containing CIA equities

including those already released.

They had been working

with Steve Tilly, NARA, to identify documents in the Ford

Library holdings which had been made available to the public

through NARA.

4) Procedures:

Documents which could be released in full were stamped with

"Approved For Release..." or "CIA Has No Objections...

• Documents containing information requiring protection were

stamped/marked "

.. Release as Redacted or Sanitized".

Classified/sensitive information was highlighted in yellow.

Documents containing particular sensitive information or

that raised question among the reviewers were tagged for

review at HQ. Testimonies of Agency Officials to the

Rockefeller Commission were also tagged for HQ review.

Their were a number of sensitive White House/ NSC documents

and documents from other agency which mentioned CIA but

contained no classified CIA equities. In these cases the

stamp was modified to reflect that it applied only to the

CIA information and that the document must be reviewed br

the appropriate agency before they could be released

---

## Page 21

13-00000

5)

Team reviewed approximately 1200 documents (10,400

pages) .

Thirty-two documents (1165 pages)

were tagged for

review at HQ.

The trip was highly successful and we have established

a good rapport with the Library Staff. At this point I

don't see the need to send another team.

The remaining

documents and any new issues can be handled by phone (STU

III), FAX or courier.

The only reason to send someone up

would be for a final look at the material after redaction.

I have confidence in the Library Staff, but we should

discuss with the Do.

---

## Page 22

13-00000

secret

21 March 1995

DS&T IRO

Attached are six pages of a 26 June 1975 Senate Select

Committee request for CIA information. This document came

from the Ford Library and is part of the JFK Assassination

project.

Two of the pages have no DS&T equities but are

sent to you for background information.

On page 3 we are protecting everything except for items

40, and 44.

We need your reading on these.

Since CIA has

admitted to drug testing, we may not be able to defend this

with the JFK Board.

12. On page please note items items 54,5e, % ana 2, 22, and

and

on page 6 please note item 13.

I are being protected, but not the other three.

Please call me on green 30106/ I think these matters

can be resolved quickly.

Thank you.

Kathy Puchnick

0/DCI/CSI/HRG

---

## Page 23

13-00000

FRANK CHUACH, IDAME, CHAINE

SONIN A, TONI, TEXAS, VICE CHA

WALTER F. MONDALE, AMN.

BARAT COLDWATER, ARTE

WALTER D, HUODLASTON, 4Y. CHARLES ME C. MATHIAS, IN, ME.

ROBERT MORGAN, NE.

FICHAND B. SCHWEIKEN, PA.

GARY PART, COLO

WILLIAM G, MILLEN, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDIWICH A. O. SCHWANT, IN., CHILE COUNSEL

CURTIS F. SMOTHENS, MIMONITY COUNSEL

Pogeler

United States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PUNSUANT TO E. HIS, 81, ATM CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

June 26, 1975

Mr. William E. Colby

Director of Central Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Colby:

On May 27 and June 2, the Senate Select Committee informed

the Central Intelligence Agency of the Committee's plans

for examining the field of foreign intelligence and the

activitles of the Central intelligence Agency, the select

Committee intends to address a wide range of issues,

domestic activities witha broad perspective, realizing,

as I am sure you agree, that the threats to United States

security and the need to protect sources and methods of

intelligence, as well as clA installations and personnel,

cross our national borders.

Basically, the subjectsof investigation fall into the

following

five headings:

1.

Counterintelligence activities at home and those

counterintelligence

activities abroad which involve

American

citizens, including activities undertaken

pursuant to the Director's authority to protect intel-

sources and methods.

2.

Foreign intelligence activities at home and those foreign

intelligence activities abroad which involved American

3.

port domestic operations of the CIA undertaken in sup

activities abroad.

Photocopy from the Gerald R. Ford Library

---

## Page 24

13-00000

for Bockgrousin

FILES

hO DST eguitis.

on thes page

The following files are requested. In order to expedite

their location, the Committee has indicated offices which

appear to be the best starting point for a search.

This does

not limit

nor supersede the general guideline that all files

throughout the CIA relating to a project be procured. If pro-

jects herein identified are not CIA projects, but are identi-

fiable as projects of other agencies with which CIA had some

connection, the request is for all CIA files regarding such

projects.

In the first instance, all of the specified material will

be reviewed in unsanitized form by staff at CIA headquarters.

Photocopy

The Committee will continue

to/select particular documents to

be transmitted to the Committeels offices in Washington to be

used in preparing for hearings and the Committee's report.

I. All files regarding the following projects, incicents or

entities:

1.

2.

s3.

4.

5.

•7.

(OXBRAKE

SRPOINTER, HTLINGUAL, SRWESTPOINTER, and MKSOURDOUGH

(SR and FE, CI and OS)

MPLODESTAR (including all files for MPTROIKA and

MPCHAUVINISM as well as any other files regarding the

institution or operation of notional organizations

by CIA or other organization for similar or related

purposes [FE])

/ DESTRY (WE)

AMCRAFT, (AMBADUCT and RIVAL MIAMI /(WH)

MICHAOS (CI, FE, FRD, OS)

HYDRA (CI or OS)

Ford

---

## Page 25

13-00000

34.

Any

"additional files on any incidents of technical

surveillance

entry, breaking and

technical penetration,

surreptitious

entering, by the CIA directly or

in cooperation with another organization,

public or private.

Directorate for Intelligent

35.

Domestic Contact Service file and Office of Legislative

Counsel file on Spring 1972 meeting of Lee Freeman, Esq.

ind Vernon Sando, head of Chicago Office, DCS and any

additional files

sans on

on inquiry regarding sucl

meeting by

Senator Edward, Kennedy

36.

Domestic Contact Service file on collection of overseas

telephone call slips (from telephone company)

37.

DCS assessment of U.S. citizens suitability for assist-

ance to or use by CIA

Office of General Counsel

38.

(MHMUTUAL and WHBRINEY (OGC, OF) 1960-1973.

The request

does not include documentation of particular financial

transactions, actuarial studies or technical data of

the investment program.

Directorate for Science and Technology

39. LONGSHAT (TAMPER and RIVERBOAT (ORD)

гX40. 1967 Test of laser probe for recording, in

San Francisco: (ORD) |

41. CUP POSES (ORD)

42. DETEN (ORD).

43. LASAVAGE

?X 44. DRUGGS

45.

46. PROFLLES A

47.

LNHB

31

i..

- 4-

Photocopy from the

Gerald R. Ford Library

---

## Page 26

13-00000

500-77=

"page!

IV. All files regarding the following projects, incidents or

entities discussed in the so-called "Family Jewels - 694 pages,"

the responses to Director Schlesinger's request for reports on

questionable activities: (Page references in parentheses are to

the pagination of the "694 pages" as received by the Select Committee

from CIA.]

1. CIA contact of three persons involved with CIA field support

group regarding the Watergate Special Prosecutor Task Force

Inquiry (p.52-59,

2.

3.

CIA payment of money to the Department of Justice (p.76)

Involvement of CIA through Identity 36 in labor organization

internal dispute (Elder memorandum, p. 457 ff. Item 7)

4.

X 5.

Domestic Contact Service activity (deleted) (p.184, Item 11)

FBIS supply of translators to FBI for sensitive Washington

Project (0.202)

6.

Program which Carl Duckett wanted to "scrub down" before its

inclusion in OTS response to DCI (P. 213)

X 7.

× 8.

TSD (OTS) program (deleted) (p. 215)

Projects or incidents involving ISD furnishing assistance,

Photocopy from the Gerald R.

Ford Library

equipment or guidance to FBI (p.22l ff.)

X°.

Office of Research and Development microwave intercept test

involving Identity 130 system (p.238 ff. para. B)

X 10. Telephoné intrusion study (p.238 ff. para. C)

X 11. STest of intercept system for Identity 93 communication links

(p. 238 ff. para. H.)

X 12. {Surveillance of Minneapolis, and Kansas City (p. 256 ff. Item 6)

13. Surveillance of foreign code clerk (p. 426)

---

## Page 27

13-00000

X 14. 1F1, tronis (prAzil lance of Identities 59, 60, 62, 62, 63,3

15.

Arrangements between CIA and State Department Passport Office

fOr CIA

Tp. 487-488)

16.

Operation against Identity 95, including related entry opera-

tion against

Ifentity 126 (p. 456 ff. Item 3)

17.

American business offer of money to be used in Panamanian

(elections (Elder Memorandum, P. 456 ff. Item 6)

X18.

_Provision of

documentation to Department of Justice for

juse by witness against Jim Garrison (P. 484-485)

19.

Deleted item regarding non-agency cooperator and operational

too1 (p. 486)

20.

21.

22.

Provision of CIA funds to FBI (p. 582)

Proprietary in Falls Church, Virginia (p.29)

CIA furnishing of funds to defer the expenses of President

Johnson's trip to Southeast Asia (pp 71-74)

23.

CIA payment of funds to the Department of Justice (p.76)

24.

CIA privision of funds to defer the expenses for the Cambodian

speech responses (p.77)

Photocopy from the Gerald

25. Provision of information to the SEC regarding organized

crime (p.541)

X 26.

Files regarding the proprietary used to buy electronic sur-

Lveillance equipment (p.107)

Ford Library

27. TSD provision of assistance to FBI (p.109-116)

28. Office of

Security Special Support Operation (p.109-116)

X29. Sensitive ORD Projects (P- 163-164)

[The

above requests may involve some overlap among the items in

the "Family Jewels" or between them

and other elements of this

request, which overlap the Committee is not now in a position to

determine. Where that occurs, this overlap should simply be called

• to the

attention of the Committee Staff.]

---

## Page 28

13-00000

rpoge,

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

AFRICAN DIVISION

Principal liaison officer with CI/SOG (1967-1973)

DOMESTIC OPERATIONS DIVISION (now FOREIGN RESOURCES DIVISION)

Gordön Jorgenson, John Shaffer, Seymour Russell,

Stanley, Gaines, Robert I. Cassidy,'

Maurice Sovern,

John Markham, Lydia Kenney

Chief (1964-1973)

Deputy Chief, Chief Intelligence Operations Group;

Chiefs Branch Tiand Branch IIf Chief Special Projects

• Staff (1967-1973)

Chief Commercial Management; Chief Commercial Operations

(1964-1971)

Base Chiefs

All supervisory personnel,

WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

1(1964-1973)

1(1968-1973)

$1111am Broe/J. D. Esterline, Bruce Cheever,

l'ed Shackley, Lawrence Sternfeld, Paul Holliwell

Chief and Deputy Chief/WH (1965-1973)

Chief, Cuban Operations (1965-1973)

Chief, Cuban Operations Group, Miami Operations Branch

Chief, Miami Station (JWAVE) (1963-1973)

Chile Desk Officer, Headquarters (1971-1972)

"SOVIET BLOC DIVISION

Chiet, U. S. Operations Branch (1967-1973)

Project Officer and Branch Chief on SRPOINTER, HTLINGUAL

TECHNICAL SERVICES DIVISION (now OFFICE OF TECHNICAL

SERVICES, DDS&T

Carl Duckett, John McMahon, Everett O'Neal,

Chief, Deputy Chief and Deputy Chief for Operations/TSD

(1965-1973)

Chief Audio Branch; CH/Training Branch; and CH/Special

Devices Branch (1967-1973)

Photocopy from the Gerald R.

Ford Library

---

## Page 29

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

MKNAOMI

FROM:

Associate DS&T/ IRO

| 6E45/ OHB

TO: (Officer designation, room, and building)

DATE

RECEIVED FORWARDED

EXTENSION

NO

37284)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

23 May 1995

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.

The DS&T concurs with the

deletions proposed by the HRG.

not object to the release of the

document as sanitized.

We do

1. Kathy Puchnick

DCI/HRG

2.

404 Ames

3.

4.

5.

7.

B.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

FORM

3-62

610

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 30

13-00000

• (CLASSICATION OF, MATERIAL TRANSMITTED).

SECURE FACSIMILE TRANSMITTAL-FORML

CSI

.. Room 404

Ames sudd

DATE. May 95.

SENDING SECURERAY IRLEPHONE NUMBER: (403) /351-2114

RECEIVI SECURA TRE ONE NAR 503) 378-1014-492-7984

NUMBER OF PAGES (nciding Transmittal Form and Covershect, If applicable) - 20.

PROME Kathy PucknicK /HRG/.30106

(Name/ Office / Extension)

SUBJECT:

TO: (ADDRESSEE/ ORGANIZATION/ OFFICE/ EXTENSION) . •

IDS+T IRO/ 5 0104

20.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

9.

10.

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

RELEASING OFFICIAL:

Digne Ahernathy

(PRINTED NAME)

Diese a lepreta

(SIGNATURE)

RECELYING STATION USE ONLY

Please receipt for material by entering time of receipu/signature and transmit back to sending station.

DATE TIME:

:?.

SIGNATURE:

10.42

4.490

Secret

CIANSIFICATION OF MATERIAL TEASSMIT

---

## Page 31

13-00000

SECRET

1 May 1995

DS&T IRO

Attached are 17 pages of a 10 July 1975 DD/S&T report

to Philip Buchen of the Rockefeller Commission

which

surfaced in the Gerald Ford Library collection and is part

of the JFK Assassination project.

The Information that we

propose to delete is bracketed.

We have used Intormation

from the Church Committee Report to help us determine what

deletions to make. We propose the tollowing redactions:

Covering Meno

FYI: MKNAOMI was released in the Church Committee

Report.

Page 3 of report -

FYI!

Nathan Gordon 1s not protected. He testified

before the Church Committee (Volume I).

The use of

shellfish toxin was mentioned in the Church committee

report.

Pages 7 and 8 of report -

dart coatings

dusting of. pillowe

attache cases. release an agent, etc.

head bolt device

cigarettes pens, rings, etc.

"nicrobioinoculator"

an extremely small...of being hit.

no indications...of autopsy

FYI: The dart delivery system as well as use of dog

Incapacitants was released in Church Committee hearings.

Page 9 of report

which would dissolve in tissue

to lante for agricultural... structural naterials,

page 10 of report

15 to 20

food poisons...skin disease, etc.

FYI: David Boston was listed as having testified in

the Church Committee report.

SECRET

---

## Page 32

13-00000

SECRET

page 12 of report

harassment materials. ..contamination

page 14 of report

crop spoilants

page 15 or report

clothing, pillow cases

tuberculosis germs

1 (listed twice)

Please call me on green 30106 so that we may resolve

any problems.

Thank you.

Kathy Puchnick

0/DCI/CSI/HRG

SECRET

---

## Page 33

13-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECAUS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

June 5, 1995

Ms. Karen

• B. Holzhausen

Archivist

Gerald R. Ford Library

1000 Beal Avenue

Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

Dear Karen:

We have finally completed the review of the JFK items that

you forwarded to us on January 4, 1995.

We apologize for

the delay.

To avoid any confusion should the document be separated from

your identification form, we have stamped both the document

and the identification form.

When the document was many

pages and it required only one or two redactions, we

indicated on the identification form which page/pages

required redaction.

However, please check all pages since

we could have slipped up. Also, on the identification form

we indicated which other government agency/agencies needed

to coordinate on certain documents.

Where the document was

many pages

and coordination was required on only a few

pages, we indicated the specific pages which should be

coordinated with the other government agency/agencies.

If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call us

for clarification.

To act

as a filler and also to advertise ourselves, we are

enclosing some of the releases that the Center for the Study

of Intelligence has made in recent years:

Sherman Kent and

the Board of National Estimates, Cuban Missile Crisis -

1962, The CIA under Harry Truman, and Selected Estimates on

the Soviet Union - 1950-1959.

Sincerely,

Barry Harrelson

•...

Center for the Study of Intelligence/HRG

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, DC 20505

UNCLASSIFIED UPON REMOVAL

OF CLASSIFIED ATTACHMENTS

---

## Page 34

13-00000

Gerald R. Ford Library

s00101

1000 Beal Avenue Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

THS PSOSAT

January 4, 1995

Mr. Barry Harrelson

Center for the Study of Intelligence/HRG

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, DC 20505

Dear Barry:

Enclosed are the JFK items you wanted to review at Headquarters plus a

ew additional items we had questions about. Please note you

etermination ("no objection" etc.) on the cories and return them, stil

attached to their ID sheets, to us as these are from our chronological

"index" set.

Also enclosed is the envelope you left with us.

Sorry it has taken us so long to get this material to you.

Sincerely,

Karen

Karen B. Holzhausen

Archivist

313/741-2218

UNCLASSIFED UFOY REMOYE:

OF CLASSIND ATTACHMENTS

1

---

## Page 35

13-00000

CLASSIFIED DOCUMENT

ACCOUNTABILITY RECORD

Date:

1/5/95

To:

From:

Mr. John-H. Wright Barry Harrelson Karen B.Holzhausen

laformation 8= Privacy Coord:

Gerald R. Ford Library

Central Intelligence Agency

• 1000 Beal Avenue

Washington. DC 20505

Ann Arbor, MI 48109

Classification:

No. of Pages:

33 docs/ 12.44 pp.

Description: JFK items you wunted to review at Headiguarters.

land your envelipe of guidelines)

Receipt of Documents) Acknowledged by:

Printed Name, Grade, or Title

Date

Signature

PLEASE SIGN AND RETURN ONE COPY TO THE

GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY

---

## Page 36

13-00000

7 February 1996

Note for the Record

Subject:

JFK-Package from Ford Library

Reference: Note for the Record, same subject, dtd 10/6/93

Note,

same subject,

dtd 1/6/93

Ford Library memo on Rockefeller Commission

files,

dtd 29/7/92

The package of withdrawal sheets described in

referenced note was destroyed 7 February 1996.

Steve

Tilley, NARA approved destruction via phone same date.

Barry Harrelson

HRG, Senior Reviewer

JFK

Records

Attachments: References

CC: HRG files

---

## Page 37

13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

10 June 1993

NOTE FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

JFK-Package from Ford Library

1. On 9 June, at a meeting with NARA officials on the

JFK documents, I raised the subject of the package of

withdrawal sheets we had received from the President Ford

Library. Steve Tilley, NARA advised me that no action was

equired by CIA with regard to the package. He said he hai

spoken with Karen Holzhausen of the Library about the

package, and learned that the sheets were sent to

Katz, a Senate staffer, in response to a specific

request from him.

Tilley agreed that HRG would hold the

package temporarily.

I told him that we had identified classified

nformation in the package of withdrawal sheets e.g.

name

I a station, although the sheets carried no classification

He took note

of this problem.

John F. Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

FOR OFFICIAL

USE

ONLY

---

## Page 38

13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT:

JFK-Package from Ford Library

DCI/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs/30335

(10 Jun 93)

Distribution:

original - HRG file

C/ HRG

CLARED

Fost w/withdrawal sheets

1 - JCarver

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 39

13-00000

Ofice of

Congression

Altars

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

1 June 1993

John:

This is the package of JFK material

from the Ford Library we talked about

today. We received this package from

Steve Katz, Counsel to the Senate

Governmental Affairs Committee.

If you have any questions about

this, please call me at 37914/(secure).

says sectoria

383336

---

## Page 40

13-00000

CHIVES

RECORDS

Gerald R. Ford Library

1000 Beal Avenue Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

DECLASSING/SON/NO CS

Date

: July 29, 1992

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT in then.

Reply to: Karen Holzhausen, Ford Library KoH

Subject: Rockefeller Commission files information

To

: Steve Katz, Senate Committee on Government Affairs

Enclosed are the finding aid to the Rockefeller Commission files

we have processed, copies of all the withdrawal sheets, and some

explanatory information.

About the withdrawal sheets: When we remove a classified

document from a folder we record more information for

administrative purposes than you find on these withdrawal sheets.

The data put into such fields as creator's agency, classifying

agency, Classification level, comments, and special markings are

not printed on this short form that researchers see.

Our

computer program was designed to produce these abbreviated public

descriptions because some agencies, chiefly the CIA, do not want

to be public identified as the originator of specific documents.

We have made the withdrawal sheets for the Rockefeller Commission

items we have processed more explicit than normal practice

because the Church Committee published the gist of most of these

documents in 1975, identifying the CIA connection.

But, because

of the software limitations, the computer cannot print the

"agency" data on the short form.

I think there is enough information for you to deduce the

originating agency for most of these documents.

Most of them

were supplied to the Rockefeller Commission by the CIA, although

many of them are of interagency origin. If you have questions

about particular sheets, please don't hesitate to call me.

We may find that some, perhaps many, of these documents have

already been declassified, but rather than take the time to

research all of them and delay "opening" the collection, we

simply "pink sheeted" everything and will wait to see what

happens with the proposed review commission.

If they are not

systematically declassified, we will research them individually

as they are requested under mandatory review.

---

## Page 41

13-00000

SECRET

19 June 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:

J. Barry Harrelson

DCI/CSI / HRG

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Frieda

Associate Information Review Officer, DDA

Material from the Ford Library for Review

under the JFK Collection Act

1.

This is in response to your 25 May 1997 memorandum

(attached) wherein you forwarded two documents (178-10003-

10453 and 178-10003-10404 for review of the information

highlighted in yellow.

2. The documents have been reviewed and it has been

determined that the codewords identified in paragraphs 30-33

of document numbered 178-10003-10453 must be withheld as we

have been advised by Directorate of Operations that they are

currently used by the Directorate of Operations.

remaining items highlighted in yellow may be released

insofar as DA is concerned.

3. Copies of the documents in full text form and

document numbered 178-10003-10453 as redacted are attached.

4. This concludes DA action on this request. If you

have questions, please feel free to call.

Attachments

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED UPON REMOVAL

OF ATTACHMENTS

---

## Page 42

13-00000

REVIEW

BOARD

MEMORANDUM®

Via Hand Delivery

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

- TOP SECRET CODEWORD

Declassify upon removal of attachments

CIA HAS NO OB. BOTION TO

"ORATION

RELEASE Cr C

IF THIS DOCE CATT

January 14, 1998

To:

From:

Subject:

• Kathy Puchnick, CIA, HT

T. Jeremy Gunn, ARRB

Transfer of 18 Ford Library Documents with CIA Equities

We are transferring to you documents on the attached list that have been identified as

having CIA equities. Because these documents are classified, we will need to have them

returned to Cathy Rodriguez of the ARRB office at the end of each work day.

• TOP SECRET CODEWORD

Declassify upon removal of attachments

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: T. Jeremy Gunn - DEPUTY DIRECTOR: Thomas E. Samoluk

---

## Page 43

13-00000

-STORET:

29 May 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DS&T/IRO

REL6ASE IN FULL

2000

J. Barry Harrelson

DA/OIM/HRP

Ford Library Document 178-10002-10394

The attached document was sent to your office on 20 May

1997 for coordination.

We have no record of its return to

this office; therefore, we are resubmitting it.

We would

appreciate your review of page 7 and confirmation whether

the material may or may not be released. If you wish to

material e a no

protect anything, please yellow-highlight the part that you

wish to protect.

We would appreciate coordination on this

document as soon as possible since the Assassination Records

Review Board is meeting on 17 June and will be reviewing

this document.

Bars arres

Attachments

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM

ATTACHMENTS

CL BY 0611637

CL REASON

1.5C

DECL ON

X1

DRV FROM

COV 2-87

SECRET

---

## Page 44

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

29 May 1998

CIA SPECK COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

• 2000

MEMORANDUM FOR:

DS&T/IRO

FROM:

SUBJECT:

J. Barry Harrelson

DA/OIM/HRP

Ford Library Document 178-10003-10453

Attached is page 2 of 178-10003-10453, part of a 25-

page document from the Church Committee, dated 26 June 1975.

In this document the Church Committee asked for a variety of

information on

projects, programs, Agency files, and Agency

and non-Agency personalities.

Regarding DS&T,

they asked

for the files on the projects/programs numbering 39 through

47 on page 2 which is attached.

We requested your

coordination for this page on 20 May 1997. We have no

record of receiving this information.

Since the

Assassination Records Review Board is meeting on 17 June

1998 to review the Ford Library material, we would

appreciate your quick review of this page. We are not sure

whether the highlighted items under DS&&T on page 2 are

classified or are open.

Barry Harrelson

Attachment

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 45

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

29 May 1998

CIA SPRCH: ATELBOTIONS

MEMORANDUM FOR: DS&T/IRO

FROM:

SUBJECT:

J. Barry Harrelson

DA/OIM/HRP

2030

Ford Library Document 178-10004-10087

The attached document was sent to your office

previously for coordination, but we have no record of its

return.

Please review the document and respond to us as

soon as possible for the Assassination Records Review Board

meeting is 17 June 199%.

The highlighted version contains

the materials which we believe needs protection.

We are

submitting an additional copy of the document for your

office to highlight should you disagree with our

determinations.

Barry Harrelson

Attachment

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 46

13-00000

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT (Optional

JFK Problem Documents

FROM

Barry Harrelson

JEK Project Coordinator

11G03 IP Bidg. Rm 2E20

TO (Officer designation, rome, and building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDER

Extension

31825)

OFFICIAL'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

OIM 99-0229

3 August 1999

COMMENTS Number each comment to show fram wham

to whom. Draw a line across calama after each commant.)

1. JFK Project Coordinator.

1G03 IP Bidg. Rim 2E20/

2.

7.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

114.

FORM

8-9B

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

610 (EF)

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CL BY:

OL REASON:

DECL ON:

DIY FROME

•..

---

## Page 47

13-00000

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, DC. C.20505

OIM 99-0229

3 August 1999

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Karen Holzhausen

Gerald Ford Library

JEK Problem Documents

Query dtd 29 Oct 98, Same Subject

We appreciate your attention to the processing of

the documents that affect CIA equities.

This memorandum addresses part of the

questions/problems regarding sanitizations identified

in reference. A follow-up memorandum will be forthcoming.

178-10002-10315 *

X O'DEUMENT HAS BEDY

We have no record of seeing this document. It cannot be

REVIEWED AN

"opened in full."

to the Assassination Records Review Board's (ARRB) determi-

nations of 104-10012-10101 on Luis Castillo and will be

We will sanitize this document according BEEN AT FURA

forwarding under separate cover.

PROCESSED

AS

SANTIZE!

178-10003-10386, -10243, and -10188

These documents are identical documents. We believe the

ARRB did have the DOD review these documents.

Periodically

a group of reviewers from CIA, DPD, NSC, and State jointly

reviewed documents at the ARRB offices. Enclosed is a cover

sheet for -10386 that the ARRB staff included with each

document.

As you can see, DOD was on the "Third Agency

Equities" line.

We feel certain that they reviewed these

documents because DOD was crossed through on this cover

sheet, but apparently DOD reviewers neglected to stamp it.

178-10002-10480

We assume other redactions are marked in this document:

and, yes, on page 7, we agree to release "Mr. Murphy asked

if ... his sister . . . she . . . inside information."

Other redactions should continue on this page and the

previous page. Copies of these pages will be forwarded if

needed.

---

## Page 48

13-00000

Karen Holzhausen

178-10003-10026 and -10048

We do not have copies of these.

documents, which were

probably reviewed during one of the joint sessions at the

ARRB offices.

The "no objection" was frequently used in the

joint sessions to indicate that the document had no specific

CIA equities.

If there is(are) CIA equity (ies) that we

missed (as opposed to NSA equities), we will need a copy of

the document (s) .

178-10004-10302

Assuming other redactions continue, please also continue

to protect the particular subject on page 4; but it can be

released on page 5 because there it is used generically.

178-10410-10297

We do not have a copy of this document. It identical to

-10302, our copy of page 3 of -10302 contains no redaction.

If not identical to -10302, please provide a copy of -10297.

178-10310-10398

We do not have a copy of this document. We originally were

protecting the name of "Sherman Hoar," but we are now

releasing the name: Therefore, in this document and in all

your documents, this name can be released.

178-10003-10404

We agree with you that the name and the closing word in

the clause fragment needs to be sanitized. Please sanitize.

We appreciate your calling this to our attention.

Also, if

possible, on counted but unnumbered page 13 under "header

B-W,

subsection VI - Mail, sub-subsection J.," is it

possible to

redact the digraph that precedes "indian?"

If not already 'out there', please redact the digraph.

178-10410-10041

We do not have a copy of this document, but we can release

"Handle via COMINT channel only.":

178-10004-10054 and -10053 (vice -10043)

These two documents contain a different system of controls

(not COMINT), and we need to continue to protect it.

In

-10053, this is not COMINT but the other system of control.

Please

protect this codeword in both documents.

2

---

## Page 49

13-00000

Karen Holzhausen

178-10410-10056

Reference word was released in 'I.d' and protected in 'I.b.'

on page 19 because the word in the first instance refers to

a different, less sensitive location.

If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to

call me on 703-613-1825 or (Eileen/on 703-613-1817?

arry Harrelson

JEK Project Coordinator

Attachment:

A.

Cover Sheet

for -103886

3

---

## Page 50

13-00000

Karen Holzhausen

DA/OIM/HRP/JBHarrelson:bkh/31825 (3 Aug 99)

da/oim/irg_hrp/jfk/9908 Ford Lib. doc

Distribution:

Original - Addressee, w/att

1 - JEK Proj. file (Eileen)

1 - JEK Proj. Coordinator (Harrelson)

1 - HRP

Chrono

---

## Page 51

13-00000

1781000310386

Declassification Review/Postponement Form

Originator: Rocheteller Commission

Date:

5/29/25

Subject: _

Drafts of Repart

Original Level of Classification: IS

Third Agency Equities: ASC, BE CIA, FBI

Remarks: Previously revered by CIA in 1995

Page # of Postponement

Reason for Postponement IAW Section 6 of JFK Act

NO OBJECTION

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

3-3-98

JIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

JECLASSIFICATION ANDION

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT.

K01N098

---

