alpy

ease etettoaed CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This maternal contains informatica aferung tba Kerieaai Defense af the Uuited Statve wtthin the meaning of the Bxpsceagy tawe Toit
4 IN BRE oer Tod TO tbe uacantn or rutin of OAM Gar mater tam ocutbores perm t pratt ty Ihe

COUNTR Cuba

SUBJECT Osvaldo RELOBA Penechet,
Alias "Wilberto”

DATE OF

miro, 1964
pace aWashington, DB. C.

Date aca. January 1965
THiS 15 UNEVALUATED SHPOUMATION. SOURCE GEADINGS AR® OLTININIWE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 6) TONTATNVE,

PATE aca. Jonuary 2963 ORT NOL

SECRET

~ EPOHT NO.
‘DATE DISTR.
NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES

"1 September 1964

REPORT NO.

‘souncesA former Cuban IS officer “who served. with the Cuban Intelligence”
Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following report is ‘one of a seri@s containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental

informa ¢fon from the records of this: Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Osvaldo RELQBA Penechet, alias "Wilberto."

1, Upon being requeried concerning additional information
on fnu RELOVA, source reported that his name is actually

He is an officer

a in the Departmento Tegal (illegal Department) of the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI).

RELOBA carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry of Interior,

In ‘approximately November 1963, he traveled to Jamaica, Canada,

and Mexico.

medium build.

Re carries a diplomatic passport.

2. RELOBA is a Cuban citizen and was born in 1930. He is
five feet eight inches tall, weighs 160 pounds, and has a

He has a white complexion, chestnut brown hair,

is partially bald, has a thin face, and wears a fine, thin

moustache,

Headquarters Comment

1.

He drives a 1956 Pontiac.

RELOBA is married.}

Official’ travel information in the records of this Agency
reveal that one Osvaldo RELOVA Penichet, probably identical

with Osvaldo RELOBA Penechet, traveled from Cuba to Mexico in

June 1963, from Mexico to Cuba in July 1963, from Mexico to
Canada to Cuba in September 1963, and from Cuba to Canada
in October 1963; he carried passport No, D63/415,

SECR
NO FOREIGN

ET
DISSEM

CSCI-316 /00704-64

Tae

Trsa T AEX Toce

_- RETURN Yo clA

6
4
3
2
1

Tanen

201-7 27928

LX=223 5 & 1X

266

NO PROJECT (AMMUG}1)

SCI-316/00485-6,

[on matene SELe,
g

Len

Background Use

NO FOREIGN DISSEM Do Net Reproduce

CScI-316/00888-65
4 February 1965 |

