# 104-10087-10126

## Page 1

11041008710126]

SECRET

That ise tet a 2e to 2l

EYES ONLY

XAA

17 Mar C4

XAAZ-123641

WOW X01094

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

> Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&A

SUBJECT:

• Canent Regudineging OSWALD was Interviewed

by CIA Employees

ebruary 1964 the Northern Virginia Sun

arried an

ab a) alleging -- among other things --

Departmen

records show that OSWALD had severa

meetinge; with

the CIA representative in the US embassy in Mosgow, During this

period, the assassin was seeking to renounce his @tizenship,

State Department cable, No. 234, dated November 2, 1959,

that OSWALD was interviewed by the CIA and other embassy officials."

2. This allegation is absolutely unfounded as the following facts

bear out:

609-786

Document Number .

JUN 1976

for FOIA Review ori

201299248

STE

17. Mar ex

The article cites a State Department "cable"

No. 234, dated 2 November 1959. Such "cable" probably

does not exist; however, the State Department despatch,

No. 234, dated 2 November 1959, from the US Embassy

in Moscow is no doubt the one which the article intended

to cite

That despatch carried the security classification

"Confidential". (See tab b).

b) Thât despatch contains no statement or inferènce

that Richard E. Snyder, the Second Secretary of the US

Embassy. in, Moscow, who talked with OSWALD on 31

October 1959, has CIA connection. Snyder's namé is

ame of a person mentioned who might have spoken

SWALD.

The only other US oincial whose hame

smentioned in that State Department despatch was

Edward L. Freers who signed the despatches Charge

d'Affairs, ad interim.

RESTNICTED TO CI/R+A

GROUP 1

Excluded trom aufonalle

downgrading and

declassilication

EVES ONLY SEGRET

6S 20/1

17-MAR-IPEY

201-289248

000211'7

PAGE

14. 00.1

COPY NO.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

EVES ONLY

Brief histary of Agency

c. Richard Bonder (P08:10 Per i Sue .

imes. He entered on duty with CIA on 8 November 1940

a a GS-9 ($4600.00 per annum). According to hi:

Personnel file (see tab c) he was assigned to OPC and

was slated to serve in J|the file contains norents)

showing that he actually served in

.:Hedid,

however, serve in Heidelberg, beginning in March 1950.

While in Germany he apparently resigned effective.

26 September 1950 in order to assume & Position with

HICOG. There are no further entries

a's Personnel

file. The SR Division, however, has de unofficial file

on him (see tab d).

That file shows that Nelson "BRICKHAM,

an SR Division staff employee, was in contact with SNYDER

for about one year (1956-1957). BRICKHAM used SNYDER

as a spotter at Harvard where SNYDER was studying Russian

and had access to other students who might be going to the

USSR. There is no record of POA, OA or CSA action in that

connection.

In March 1959 (probably just before SNYDER's

departure for Moscow), State requested that he be given two

weeks of the OBS Course (probably ORR's training in Soviet

Order of Battle).

(201-125339) Brief history of Agency

d. Edward It freere was never an employee of CIA.

Subj:

He has been an employee of the Department of State since

1941 and has served in various countries. In 1952, while a

"'Peripheral Officer" with the State Department in Rome,

OPC requested. "liaison clearance" on him; the clearance

was granted in April 1952. The interest was dropped in

1955 and the clearance was cancelled. From September

to November 1956, IO Division officials were in official

contact with him because of his position at the Department

of state.

that purpose I0 requested and received

liaigon cléarance from the Office of Security. In addition,

of Security file contains the following record of

interest and clearance action concerning FREERS:

April 1957

SE/PP

April 1958

OSI

August 1958

August 1959

C/PP/LO

C/PP/1O

January 1962

He son We • • an a

EVES ONLY

-2-

SECTET

GRCUP 1

Excluded fron automalli

managrabing and

declassification

0002118

Z/BR

15

PAGE

COPY NO.

of 1!

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

3.. The original article containing the subject allegation was

written by Robert S. ALLEN and Paul SCOTT. ALLEN is a former

associate of Drew PEARSON's.

The article has been replayed in

various publications which carry the ALLEN-SCOTT articles. Many

of the replays appear to have deleted the citation of the State Depart-

ment "cable". Among the publications carrying the allegation in its

entirety is the current issue of Human Events (see tab e) which is

published in Washington, D.C. The publisher is one James L. WICK

on whom the FBI has furnished adverse information. The founder of

that publication was FranKC. HANIGHEN. According to the FBI Apesson

with the sa had been a member of the "Intelligence Committee" of the CP USA

4.

ALLEN's and SCOTT's attacks on CIA are well-known and

have been persistent. In December 1961 Col. Grogan wrotê a memorandum

to the DCI concerning both of them. In May 1962, C/ CV/R& A wrote a

memorandum to the Office of Security and attached

5.6

eral items:

concerning these two men (see tab f).

A surface an

articles written by this duo shows that they have be

sis of the various

en sharpshooting at

Mr. Dulles whenever the opportunity has presented itsel

The recent

article shows that they are still at it: in connection with Mr. Dulles'

service on the Warren Commission, they accuse him of displaying

"... a militant protectiveness regarding the CIA". The Office of Security

has furnished a copy of a detailed biographic account of ALLEN and a

Of (a portion of) an investigative report on SCOTT (see tab g).

papers

contain no derogatory information.

17March

Hartman

*being checked Swarthes.

Original - Mr. Rocca w/atts

1 - C/CI/SIG w/o/atts

1 - Security w/o/atts

83/2204

3. Frank. C. HAKIGHEN - Mr. Papich was asked on an urgent basta

whethor the individual of this name described in a Bureau report

dated 7/4/44, subjoct,

"Illy Turner Davins", a member of the in-

telligence Committee

of the CPUSA, could be identical with the

founder of the Fuman Events magazine. Mr. Papich was alle toés-

tabliah that there were allegations of Commist confections concern-

ing the founder of the magazine.

CI/REA - Hartnan

declaecificalen

3299248

231-289241

0002115

PAGE

16.

i of 16

COPY

NO.

---

