# 104-10436-10056

## Page 1

1104-10436-10056)

DISPATCH

Chief, WE

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

OSSA. -23321

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

TO

iNFO

FROM

SUBJECT

un

ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCE(S)

Acting Chief of Station

GPFLOOR/TIPSTAFF

O Transmittal of Report

For Your Information

5244

DATE

18 September 1964

RE:

"43-3" - (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAUFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

Forwarded herewith is the TIPSTAFF report promised

in Reference.

Attachment:

TIPSTAFF Report

18 September 1964

Distribution:

2

Document Number.

852-891

for FOlA Review ori

JUL 1976

w/att

AS BURY

FORM

10-57

(10)

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

51-28,

51.29A

AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

SECRETL

201-289248

PAGE NO.

TO CONTINUED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

(SECREI/RYBAI

22259

ATTACH ENT

LOS5A=13321

18 September 64

Leno un RIDDERSTRALE

(

Riddersträle was questioned on Septeaber Ith 1964 and

gavethe following infomation.

He has never visited countries outside Europe and the

statement attributed to hin

thet during a period of seven

years he should have lived in Cuba is not true. He believed

that somebody who wanted to harm him had ascribed these

words to hin. Neither 1s it true that he has visited llaiti.

He admitted

that on several occasions he has discussed

politics and in the course of these discussions he has

spoken of Swedish communism as well as of the Fidel Castro

government in Cub., and he did not deny that he had spoken

of revolutions in Venezuela and lexico supported by Castro.

lie pointed out, however, that what he had said in this

respect was only what could be found in Swedish newspapers.

sonebody who had listened to him might have nisunderstood

him.

When questioned whether he had used the expression: "I

tell you, kennedy will probably be shot", he denied that.

Fie could not explain such an expression since he could noi

'enember having seid anything like it. He knew nothing

whatever beforehand about the murder of the President.

Sentenber 15th 1964

Li

ATT.

L To: 0554-13321

CS SOPY

201-299248

---

