# 104-10229-10411

## Page 1

104-10229-10411

DISPATCH

FROCESSING

ACPICA

INTO.

FROM

Disctor Medical Servicessar

Chief, KH

DOC. MICHO.

MARy 1 1972

M1 9134:48:185 DISA

CAO ARE ONCE LIMO

"8STR&4?

history iscords on Threo Bricado Members

ACTION RIGUIMO RUIND SiLO RUGUIT PsychiaLriC Care.

During Al1co D. Caponony's TUY at lendauartors tho lattor

part of July 180s ube dinenned ins subject of this dissatch with

Headquiters de aware, JuilVY has fio on-colat

programa for llo

Lovia 8. Dollany bunofit of the Dreade 2u00 ventor who roquiro special

attention.

Theua progiam cover sodical attontlou sud vncational

robabilitation training.

In the arilcal anycet of these programs

thoro au threo psychlatric cases sho reprusent th.t could de permanont

finnnchal rosjonalbilitios of GUlF.

(In addition to tbase two

programs, affociod Pay of Pies Brigade mondars, cootine to rocolva

nonthly financial autport.

Undor tho sodical progran tho Dade County

Moddenl isbociation physicans duonted thor services pratle to 23111t

those Brigade sombors and tbo local bopttala tave a a reducad sulo

for their facilitler.

Howovor, the psychlatilats clu nut sue fle to

provido thor sorvicos frce of charge.

Honce, cout's for these lodivid-

unles range Iron $300 to $360 por munth for piolesslonal corvicas, plus

the monthly financial surlort proviced onch.

Aiso, due to their nantal

stato, tboy aro soablo to participato lu the vocational rehabilitation

program.

Pron the reporta of the psycalatilato, there suuse to bo so

lodication that no cau oxpect an end to those treatmuls in the near

future.

Man dig absorbind sint Gill of Damiesiss

In discusalug the mattor with Lowla". bollary 18 as A

art the attachod casu Hitoves. of those three 1i0.1y14ua15

waht in lorwarddit to tuu rubical Branch, Tiere tray would beduntysou

by the paychiatric stall to sou that couclusiona alcht lo reachod ini

what solutions might l founi.

(ie alght suction lora that at diAVi"s

recoat, Hondnuartore has already checkod with toe Votorans Adalniatio-

Elou concorolos tale Lacilities but no practiCal SoLdIon VRE FOrCiNC

la thia instanco, joo VEGi 17,175 of 1a angust lEti, UEGS 5l8G ol

El deptender 1061, UNGA 14,691 Of 13 DetObar IEUs, UPGS 535 or

1D Ontobur 1864 and UNG: 19,159 of iS Deconier 1S61).

Attachment:

Case Histo les, h/w

Distribution:

CS COPT

3-LodicalServices, 7/4789874497780-

zaT/C, wo/attach

Gertras

DATE CISPATCARO

SEP 14 "

1 Sept 1D33

CASIN- SOBS NO MARCE

UFEiA 23,072

TICING LES MINNO

---

## Page 2

CONTIRUATION OF

DISPAICH

3. Lovie N. Dollany also auegerled the ponsibllity of his dis

cusaing each of theso duivlial cases with other to attending

psychiatrista or uith tho garienta themselves.

il thor of these

marathilitles could be arranges by the Stattoo with some advance

notice.

Fe would appreciai bebog tapt advised of progress in thie

mattor.

FHILIP G. ELMARD

14. 14.252

2

---

