# 104-10234-10438

## Page 1

104-10234-10438

28 August 1964

MEMORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

BUBJECT: Meeting with ANWHIP/1, New York CIty, 20 August 1964

Mooting Tine/Placo/Purpose.

This noting was hold in

the offices of AliHIP Iron 1200 until 1430 and fron 1815 unt1l

3000 on 20 August 1964. The purpose was to discuss HA PRON

matters and to brief him for his coming trip to Europe and the

expocted re-contacts with AMLASH/2 and UNSNATU/ 19.

2. Detalls of Meeting.

"*1 Mago" ROBRENO. According to ROBRENO's futher

who is presently living In exile In New York CIty, EL MAGO

18 presently living in Madrid at Pension HIS PANA,

Ave.

Jose Antonio 44, Plaza del Callao; telephone No. not known.

A/l will go Madrid to see EL MAGO ON MHAPRON roE, and then

take him to Parts for a few days, 11 he 1s willing.

(EL

MAGO should be useful for gleaning Information from the

Embansy types while 1n Parts.)

Jewelry Deal.

According to ANNHIP/1, there have

not been any transactions since the initial ones of 300,000

and 10,500 12 June 64.

He had expacted to receive & packet

of Jewelry per month worth ca. 50,000 dollars.

A/1 also

wrote some time ago (June 84) to UNSNAFU/19, but has not re-

ceived an answer to date.

It is not known at this time

whother the lack of further jewelry packets is just poor

admintstrative procedures on

the part of the Cubans, or

whether perhaps All la suspect for some reason by the Cubans.

This should be resolved when next A/1 meets with U/19.

YAL Equipment.

All stated that he felt one of the

firat things EL MAGo would ask him was about the FAl equip

ment which AMLASH/1 has requested. A/d was told that the

silencer for the FAL did not exist and that it probably me

not feasible to attempt to adapt & malse-shift one, according

to weapon authorities.

The matter of a telescopic sight was

Su Pg.

3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

list

not discussed. A/1 vas told that special equipment for a

rifle such as

the fAL was difficult to procure as the

veapon was designed primarily as a general-purpose combat

not for special tasks.

A/l then asked about the

wenabilly of purchasing a special spos in purope asd

have EL MAGO take it back with bie,

He was told that such

special rifles (probably for hunting big gane)were un-

doubtedly available in surope, but that this did not solve

the biggest problem of hou to get it into Alast/l.

was told that such a gun or any part of it ould undoubted

ly be highly suspect 11 EL MAGO tried to bring any such

itens into Cube.

It is apparent, however, that this tople

will continue to be one of concern to all persons connected

with the AMLASH/1 operation until It 18 resolved.

tho boat bet would be to lovel with AMLASH/1 at the next

mooting and tell him that such equipment will not be forta

comfog frOm KUBARK OF ODYOKE BOUrCes, together with the

d.

A/1 stated that he bad

called RIcardo BORDO's son in PilIndelphia several times

(confirmed by telocons earlier between underaigned and A/1

In New York) but that in each case, the son had stated that

he had received no pacinges fros his father from horico

All thought

this indeed strange.

The undersigned opined that perhaps

1t was difficult to obtain pesos today due to the stringent

currency controls now in force in Cuba. We suggested to

ANWHIP/1 that he not pursue this problen with BORDO further.

me any over zealous efforts on his part to obtain the

currency might come to the attention of the Cuban authoritles.

or course,

11 BORDO does produce the pesos at a later date

(w1th no additional prompting from Al), they will be readly told

accepted.

I want due the sa saint

years of Eduardo PERNAS, I Jeweler acquaintance of A/1'

who owned (until intervened several weeks ago by the castro

poverment) part of the Jewelry firm of Pernas Gones y Cim

(Consulado) located on the corner of San Miguel and San

Rafael Ste, Havana.

PERNAS also had a store in Mexico City.

Iccording to A/1, PERNAS 18 now out of Cuba la horico, and

should have sone

Interesting informtion to provide, since

he was so clóse to ANTUNA for many yeara. PERNAS can be

reached at his store, Plaza de la Constitucion 7, Mesico

City, telephone No.

(Eqs traces on one Eduardo

PERNAS, posalbly Identical with above PERNAS are attached.)

---

## Page 3

14-00000

3

C's action tatter

PRANAS 18 originally of Spanish nationality.

This lead

has been passed to the Mutter shop for Tollor-up.

stated that he believed vERNAy's business was protected

from Intervention up to thi. time through the inter-

cession of VENTUNA (ANIIP Comented that his business

along with those of most of his friends suffered their

fate quito sone tine ago.)

?. Raymundo TORRES ("El GuayIro"). TORRES called

Al Iron Vexico City With a message Iron AMLASE/1 for

A/l (see below).

At that time, TORRES out frow Cuba on

A trip, mas staying at the Hotel Guardiola, Ave. Madero

and San Juan de Letran, phone 218580.

Later he soved to

Horses 71, Apt 304, Mexico, DoF. All stated that TOrki

was all right and apparently una trusted enough by AMLAsH

to deliver an inocuous message and letter, the latter being

not so harmless.

A/l stated that TORRES was Jiven to

drinking and took dope upon occasion. (No identiftable

traces on TORRES) .

AMLASH/1. LASI sent A/l the accompanying letter

mailed by TORRES. from lexico.

The text is self explanatory®

It has been decided that there would be too much roos for

suspicion if KUBARK tried to have LASH invited to the cited

National assembly of Surgeons. A/1 has an acquaintance

wIth one Manuel RODRIGUEZ, who was in 1959 a sedical student

and President of the lexican F.E.U.

He suggested that 1f

he could locate RODRIGUEZ, he might be able to have ha

formally Invite AMLASH to the Assembly, as the latter desires.

Afl has not seen RODRIGUEZ (on whom there are no identi

fiable traces) for about three years, but believes tiat

there is no risk in attempting to locate hin and asking this

favor.

It la perhaps worth the effort, although admittedly

1t 18 & long shot.

It should be noted that RODRIGUEZ'S

father is believed to be a communist, but that, according

to A/1, RODRIGUEZ 1s not.

(This would acually not be a

problem, providing RODRIGUEZ believed that he was just doing

• favor for A/l who desires to see his old friend lash.)

The note added to LASH's lettor from "Marzo" is from

Marcelino ARTIME Vega, who was used as a cut out for mall

between LASH and A/1 prior to the October 62 Crisis, MARZO

18 & former phys. Ed instructor in the Batiste ema ,

and 1a

presently employed at Los fernanos store selling Jewelry.

He is trusted by LASH and A/1, needless to say.

3. There vore no incidents of & security nature which

. came to the attention of the underaigned.

A/l will be contacted

telephonically concerning arrangements and advice on the AMLASH/1

letter e

Il necessary, & personal meeting "ill be arranged prior

---

## Page 4

14-00000

*;.

rsds peie e ne anme comectndee e dial ae crons

to A/l'a doparturo fos Jurope the voekend of 29 August.

Distribution:

Or1g - A/1 11e

1 - BOB chrono

IPTISE

---

