# 104-10528-10129

## Page 1

104-10528-10129

101d

# 0070328. 1963

CERTAIN STATIONS AND DASES

?

INTO

INWAVE

STO CEN.

: x

BOCK CABLE

TYPIC

I.APA.

•SAGO

LIMA

COAT

SJOU

PAVE

3345

RAGO.

ASUN

CARA

TEGU

MANA:

RIOD

GAYA:

BUKH

SALV

MOKI

PACE

PRIN

SARO

SJAN

RECI

DI.EM

GRID

CONG

TRIN

QUIT

POSN:

KINGS

LOS CONTINERS RICEIVE ION LEVEL HARITS FEAT. CUSA PLANNIES

OR ENGAGING IN CULTIEG VARIOUS LATIU ATRICAN BEVULUTIONATY GROUPS

VITE ARIS COVESILY DELIVERED EU AID AND WATER, E. G. CARIO VESSEIS

CARBYING ARE TO LITICE GIANA FOR TRANSMIT VITALA, CURAN

LEGISTRESD AIRCRAFT DOING INSITED TRASPOST AELS TO LATIN ANERICA

AND COVES AIRIES VOCERAN DAD DOS INTRANSIT, SUPPLY CHITRA?

ARSI CAN

TENS DAM JAAZE COMBER ACTUAL DELIVERY AMAS FUR COS:

DO ANCIER LO COOTEE COVERS ARIS DELIVERY, BONEVER NOT CE

LINS VITO CANTY CANTO DUCLIRATIONS AND PIUS TUEST CAB CURVARA

100F9

---

## Page 2

icary is

SAS/ Mary

A. Ont

CERTAIN STATIONS AND BASES.

SANTOS ONAVE 152T

WAVE

3 3 4 5

ARTICLE (CUBA SOCIÁLISTA, SEPTEUBBA ISSUE) BYENPIISTEING GUERRILY

FARFARE MTANS ACHIEVING PONER IN LATIN AMERICA

23:

• INFORNATION ON SUCH ACTIVITY OF PRIME, INTEREST TO UDYONE

CORSEQUENTLE WISH KEITERRATE PARA 2 G DIR 25583 INSTRUC

TIONS STARLISHING UNCIN PEORAR)." BEQUEST A DAESSDO

UNILATERAL SOURCES TO, DETERMINE THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF

CLANDOSTINE MURATE AND SHALL QUAT TRAFFIC BETWEEN CUBA AND

•LATIN AMARICAN COONIRIES.

MAKE MAJOR EFFORT SECULE ACTIVE

SURVEILLANCE BY LOCAL LIAISON AND SECURITY SERVICES AND EXCHANGE

BRADS TO EFFECT ENTITE CONTROLS.

CASLE ALL REFORTS, DOUBVER INCOMPLETE, WITCH INDICATE COVERT

ANS MOVEMENTS!

END OF MESSAGE

51423/2

CASAS:

REPRODUCITON EY ON, FRATHAN THE ISSOIM

---

