# 104-10219-10066

## Page 1

104-10219-10066

{!1

PP CuBL: 6016044643

IME

PLIRUIIO

HOOe Ri

spunginalst

CIHICAN PRASE CE

F10

INCER DALY

НАКА

rialae drir ?a le ii

83.3

rertoo

Poraiol saziid lieira

Oe Bale "8s9 ti 1ai inficra ii

SIfEEA SIT.E

RIEF/AISIFI

¿2uEr und táneges daaalid, dul dilitanetoçs iirsial

.9e. Do Giat NS iTpREl ab ECAltilos dd boe recziouaraido l pini22z, bor s0 is

Mrsatciiz sn 13

iN:LFA SPAt HUNGSRTE MP lSA iSSaE dS

=5 16 O SGAINONi BEILEM EANS

TTS EAIDE E. MIA PE

Mi crenras d doan 2s

с соцій

saresait se pfii

stdoawa,rt.ee

ctocddcorco.ocas

tasdies

ffatiad (1.dp1r. )

4EN?-7:30

{018799

C0.53- 976

27 104 53

•08-40 Ro

Itoo a F2$

riaane +27041910091

Piripan tii, iori.

* Ies ai,

16 1ee +79 11

Gtlett in ddl' ' f.

shais ihy trl baw

"•4-

Baiesi 1o

Buij- sam qieti parrt hes i

Biar.a,

B cra"iuet

pesanl, d: 604-4404579.

Esaljpiuia

eane 1s culd iung Mor la tuát ge

dirdisoi ri iae , nã

oraT brst

15 08 9

ka8: 4539

* DesP $9

M8A: 24es som, borlasi fict.

10:99.97

21:9 irrgneara aribesia "596153718

8951579.24 597s xust

* : 1.8de 812

EGjHN "na

Fa: Fiic!

pac: : 5an iti

resre

Ford.na

Intlae iriaod i9enl ed taso

sieipra al mptene

siniasdo dinis i-

atthi.

Iuntt

itie

F3=

brürt.

Gmissd 0

Wrpart

23. thpria

ido 197297, " 500. 59.

Frido la Mie, is toue 5ii

majth rad's e aufo. ckiooioos tr dh,

AA sEEelot d iNaudty ifs:,

Mat tens oiils

Ih EONAROHS dET: 1950: 57090-2867740 59E50i

iats fssi

sirsas,

---

## Page 2

11-00000 g

Storti

(bAeR #Alled In)

EXTRACT ARD CROSS REFERENCE

DOC. STHROL

• NO:

DOCUMENT VESTIFICATION

DATE OF DOC.

FILE CLASSIFICATION GE

DECORD

CEBy

Merco Draft

DOC. SUBJECT

Resulto of Our Surry

SOURCE CRYPTONT

13 Sept (72?)

Cuton Gosets

SOURCE IRS ORMATIOR

did well to raise the question as to what will

COS

rEXT c happen, ViS & Ils our operational security, when the Cubans

achieve diplonatic rocognition in the various Latin American

countries where this is gradually occuring. The responses

from the Branches indicate that we do have a considerable aroun:

of operational activity and equity that revolve around our Cuban

assets and that we would do well to begin a gradual cut-back in

our lisa of Cubans, given the targetting that e presume will be

made on then as the Cuban CI eifort begirs in the various

countries.

%. However, the solution to our probles should be a graden!

one and keyed initially to where the official Cubar preience is.

and then to those countries where it is coning. Therefore we

start with Peru.

b. GICITROY-4, who has been Treasurer of the 26th

July movement in the period 1957-38

for LITHGOE.

Indicate The Subject,

Project Or

201 File No. In Which Tais

Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF NOI CLAIR,

middle)

GICITRON -4

8÷80

867

REDUS

INATBONS

201-

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14;00000

SECRET

15 August 1972

MENORANDUM FOR: WH/FI

SUBJECT:

GICITRON- 4

a. GICITRON-4

b. Subiect is usod by the

Station to

Jan operation handled by

also a

Cuban, who is ncainally Subject's

c. Cuban

d. Legicinate businessman who was fornerly in

and

now manages a

business firm

• in

€.. Resident. alien.of

f. = Subject has received no training in clandestine opera-

tions, though he was involved in several clandestine

Cuban

activitics while treasurer of the 2oth of July

Hoverent during 1957-53.

g. Since Subject provides

required to utilize any tradecraft.

Having his own

сораду

h.

Due to his posizion, Subject is probably well-known in

the Cuban community, but he perforas no operational

tasks.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

10891GA8 9 44 9111049134498497

sar: 1:1/3/60

iT: 5267/1034

35:Z AUGUST 1922

-ADLE SCEFLTARIAT ESSENIMATIOE

SECRET

INDEX

O HONDER

D' FILE IN ES FILE NO.

RETUAN TO

• DRAMCH

28/2V

0.1.0

Teless Bren

LE

CRET

Idate: she hero lived).

ro

• 709722 172

. CITE DIRECIOR

HAS ATTEMPTING ASSESS THREAT GROUING PBRUMEN DIFLOR RIL 3 5

PRESENCE IN HEMESPHERE CRÉATES FOR SKTRUST ENFLOYED FORUMEN ASSETS.

HAS RECORDS SHOW

GICITRON-4 AND GICITRON-S

PLS INDICATE IF STATION HAS

ADDITIONAL PBRUMEN ASSETS WE UNAWARE OF, OR OTHERS WHOSE FILES

SHOULD BE REVIEWED.

3. DOES GICITRON-5 CONTINUE WORK FOR

ANY CAPACITYP

4. FILE 17-320-21. EX-Z, APDIR, WN-SISH.

END OF MESSAGE

SHAS COMMENT:

BASED

DATED

MEMORANDUM &

"SURVEY OF CUBAN EXILE ASSETS,"

25 JULY 29720 C/UH/FI.

C/UH/FI.

CLISSIIF" CY

S.1,

WARRING NOTICE

scarrist

6. 0. 11: 186n'liu. 6. 125931:

$ã6id:10) 190 as 8i9 friesle ene as Fared

AND REINIONS CASLVED

__APPROVAL OE DIRECIOR

7

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY

C/UHD

HELIASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

0/M1/3

ariadio trans

*t: 1:11.18.

::COPY NO

---

## Page 5

iof of alation,

CARY QUANFELD DESA

CAN NOG DIDOnNE

*Chief, Western Hesisphere Div18108

LGICITRON-A

(201-267298)

anitate to steali

REFERINCE: HLBA-12320, 10 Novesber 1970

Operational Approval was grunted on 8 February 1971 for

the use of OICITROl-A as requested in Reference.

DISTRIBUTION:

2 - C03/

C3 L.:

CROSS REFERENCE FA

1 - WH/3/C (Chrono)

DOPAION STHSOL AND FLAUBER

HLBH- 6561

QKSACATION

SECRET

OFFICE

NH/3/C

OAFICE STABOL

DATE

C/WR/3/C

DATE

17 FEB 1971

typed 11

February 1971

HOS FILL ANDER

4201-267298

KM FEB 71)-

COORDINATING

ONFECHAT'S MAKE

11034R

Tarteds

RELEASING

1147320

OFFICE SYMBOL

¡ DATE

140:

Ba. 18 04

DISPATCH

---

## Page 6

SECRET

No. 201-267298

HEMORARDUH FOR: Chief, WH/3/C

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of GICITRON/4

for the purpose specified in your request

dated as follows:

As outlined in Section VI (4) of Part II (undated).

Faild Tistifel

"Fet"

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this

Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-? 10-5.

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPOPE DIVISION

Date: 8 February 1971 lc

SECRET..

FORM

0-88 124

---

## Page 7

SECRET

2 February 1971

MENORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

BUBJECT

REFERENCE

CI/OA

:

GICITROH-4 (201-267258)

: Form 889, dated 19 January 1971

The Information on GICITRON-A contained in DBE-9745,

16 September 1958, was located and reviesed.

The 1Dfor-

astion is considered non-derogatory by this

Deak. It

duplicoted information already in Subject's 201.

#E/3/Colombia

DISTRIBUTION:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

201 File

1 = 1.1 Chrono

(2 February 1971)

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATICH AND REVIEW

1 February 1971 le

TO:

с/wH/3/C

FROM: CHIEF; CI/OA

201-267288

SUBJECT:

GICIT PON/4

ORDER THAT

FURTHER CONSIDERATION. MAY BE GIVEN

THAT YOU ELGNISH THIS

OFFICE THE INFCAMATION CHECHED

REQUEST MOR

IS REQUESTED

÷08ann1 saw

TRACES

88AC2%

OFERATICHAL

AND DIVISION TRACES

BESULTS CO

TECHNICAL INTERROGATION:

EPORT AT =I/DA

BEVIES

NED REFIZENCE

XX DINERS (Ser

Fanarks)

Please locate and review FBI data

re

sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is

derogatory or non-derogatory.

I Fel 11

os 889.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR IMFORMATION AND REVIEW

19 January 1971 lc

TO:

C/WH/3/Col|

FROM: CHIEF, CI/DA

201-267298

GICITRON/

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN

REGUEST FOR

IT IS RECESTED

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS

OFFICE THE INFORMATICS:CHECKED.BELDS..OR REVIES INFORMATION AS

INDICATED,

STARE'S

TRACES

TaAtES

CI/DA

HEMO AT CHIDA

CONCURRENCE

GEFORT

AT CI/DA

#EY IE#

OF

ATTACEY REFERENCE

xX

*THEAS (See Bensebs)

Please locate and review FBI data re

sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is

derogatory or non-derogatory.

BBF 9745, 16 Sepi 58, 100-2-18.

Locates ini

201-215431.

FDA#

B- $5

889 SaRTE

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

DIO CONTROL 8S. (Filled

WH/З/CO

EXT • 5269

TO:

2210901040

189.14171

GG 196

382627

TUBE BS4

DATE

SECRET

(ones filled la)

DT - 6

AID/FILES

REQUESTER

AID/FILES

DT- 6

HO FILE NURBER

100-2-18

DOCUMENT SERVICE REQUEST

DATE OF REQUESS

ARRACH

ROOM NO.

12 Jaa 1911

INSTRICTIONS

Une this

Hundrels 19r1oe!

files

362.1

sed and or decument®

lisa

of Form

bioch

Ine lode Badge

numher

and robe

donsed label has

not been

Indicate typo of chardo:

881r0op08e1y

D Perman

8. Indicero source of solesence:

D Dacement

reference

fros RID/Indes.

O Document reference trod source of ber

than

RID: Inder.

DOCUMEAT SINBOL AND NUMBER

DOCUMENT DATE

FBI Seport

DBF-9745

€1 Angust-1250

16/9/58

TEN TOUT TEAS

Il Further Search Lubird

Ca12 27672

catt + 185341

FORM 1870 US:

SECRET

$381.

---

## Page 11

SECRET

DATE

REQUEST FOR IMFORMATION AND REVIEW

18 December 1070 lc

TO:

C/WH/3/Col

FROM: CHIEF, CI/QA

201-267298

GICITRON/4

IN ORDER THAT. FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE-GIVEN YOUR REGUEST-FOR AFPROVAL IN THIS

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS

OFFICE

THE

INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW.

DA REVIER INFORMAT TONS AS SEDICATES.

IS RECLESTED

TRACES

OPERATIONAL

AND

TECHNICAL

INPERROGATION

+98ORMAT10N

REPORT

APCI/DA

CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/ON

REVIEN OF

FOI REPERT AT CO/OA

RETIRE OF

ATTACHED REFERENCE

OTNERS (SeO RegArde)

Please locate and review FBI data re

sent to this Agency on 8-21-58

• P.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is

derogatory or non-derogatory.

889

SECRET

---

## Page 12

#fO.

DISPATCH

LLASSFICATICSI

SECRET

Chief, Westera Henisphere Division

PROCESSIRIG ACTION

MARKED FOR POLIE.

TAO POTENE MOUNTD

ONIY CUAUIS.AD DESE

ICAN JUDGÉ INDEJONG

ROCROTILAS

Acting Chief of Station

& GICITRON-* (201-267298)

ACTION RIQUIRED - RIFIRENCES

ACTION: Process for OA

RET:: #135-2641, 28 October 1970

Forwarded herewith are three copies of Subject's updated

PRQ Part. II as requested in Reference.

DISTRIBUTION:

3-Chief, WHD /att h/w

25 N9%

63 COPY

1HH

CROSS NEFERENCE TO

DISPATCH STMBOL AND WUNSCI

HLBA-: 12320

CLATSACADON

SECRET

DATE

10 November 1970

NOS AU NUMBER

201-267298

---

## Page 13

SECRET

PRO NO.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIUNHAIKE

PART 11 • OFERATIONAL INFORMATION

OISPATCH NO.

INSTEUCTIONS TO CALL OFFICES

This form

formation

2. Haras

A A PAC

plic

anal be tillad in by

• 201

sheer-l

cor or appropriato aulhority do the basia of tbe

beat avoilable de.

oral *el08a

roqueader

farniahes

to

be

obtain

ned by

and 18d.

the

pith..

soual noshod to

document or

3.

banderitina, ll posnible, and lus (3) cos-

possible.

Pdl

for

CHUPTCAYM

•rite A.° 1l additional apace semired

8. PSEUDONYA

GICITRON-S (OriginallY LITAMIL-1)

SECTION

CO#TACT AND DEVELIPMENT

1. 'IADICATE HOO, THEM, SHERE, MMY, AND BY BHOM SUBJECT DAS FIAST CONTACTED. DA SEVELOPED. First contacted

py kexico Station

visited Subject's business

of

office and presented self Ba &

, who at

that tine was

and a former contact of

uhile

was in Mexico prior

195935

Purpose of meeting was to assess Subject's attitude towards the

Castro regise.

Subject was subsequently utilized by Mexico City Sation

to assist in coordinating anti-Castro activities.

with Sublect established in 1970

to

GICITRON-4 ENO

are long-time friends and preformed operational tasks for KLANCE

Then both werer Mexico City assets.

INDICATE PHETHER SUOJECY COULO DE BURNEO OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANHER TO ANY NESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER TON

MANDE ING, 18.50.

ABDICATE TO tHOR.

Subject could be turned over to any Spanish speaking Case Officer.

LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS INO HAVE MANDLED SUBJECT

BEEN

None.

WE OH NE

Rad Boat.

WHICH

THEY wAVE

18-ce 1050a

H/cattt ALBA -12320

ES COPY

SECRET

201-267298

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

AnD COSTROL

SECTICA 18

NOTIV

ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Be detalled,

DO

not

Subject became disillusioned with the Castro regime early in 1959

because of the communist infiltration

in the Cuban revolution.

Subject

is strongly anti-communist and anti-Castro and thus willing to lend

his services to combat these regises.

ORSE, AT CONSEDL. 15 ANY. ENISTS OUER INA SUARET. Ill no coderal.

of df there

seal coateel

Except/ long-tine relations between Subject and

No actual control exists over Subject.

SECTION

COVER A SEB

BY

COVER

NA

COVEBASIO BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING MIS INTORMATION AND IS CONTACTIME MIS INFORMANIS.

NA

INDICATE SERVICE NOR MICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will POTA) (1O PORKON).

Subject presumably knows he is cooperating with JKLAFCE

SECTION IT

INTELLIGENCE COURECTIONS AND TRAINING

EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S ANOMI PAST DO PRESENT CONNECTIC OSTN ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE ME EXTENT

SUCH CORMECTIDN IS ANON OVERTLY.

Subject is not known to have worked for any intelligence serrice.

2. LIFT OTHER INDIVIDUALS

None:

frienda) mo KROS CE SUBJECT'S PRESENT IOTELLIGENCE ACTOVITIeS.

EXPLAIN ANT TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTIRE OPERATIONS.

None.

However,

Subject was involved in several Cuban clandestine

novenents while treasurer of the 26th of July Movement during 1957-58.

SECTION V

COLLAZORATION

POTENTIAL

INDICATE OTHER FORCIEN POMER SUBJECT MOULO BE MOST LIBELY TO COLLABORATE WITN BECAUSE OF MIS IDEDLOGY ON PAST

ASSOCIATIONS, EXPLAIN-

None.

SECRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

SECTICH WI

SUBJECT ASS

OPEPATICAAL

USE

CONTACT

USED OR CONTACTED

BEFORE.

ACTIVITY IN ONICA HE HAS ENGAGED AND THE JEFE OF INFOR.

In 1960

Subjct was utilized by the Mexico City Station to assist in

the coordination of anti-Castro activities as part of the

operatior.

Subject was rated a reliable source by the Mexico City

Station.

INDICATE HOU

HE D

#HOM SUBJECT

10B04 8811E

RASA TION.

NA

I. PEDICATE MAT

TOLD

NA

DETAIL

subject Is

TANTGAL!

used

SPOSITION OF

WE FURNISHES.

who

for status and

is Subject's

DETAIL SUBJECTS PROPOSED

HA

TYPE USE DA DUTIES.

SECTION

NA

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUBLECT'S PROPOSED BLALEDY TIPE SONTAGI OR ORESATIONAL NIE:

, 1.

HERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MENDER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNENTS

WHERE SUBJECT IS AN

88b He thr

ANOTHER AGENCY OF

THIS COVERNMENTI:

NA

AGENCY MELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

PERSON A SURE TO SUNSET.

RELATIONIMID BIT SUBJECTI D-E. TRAINEE.

OPPOSITE NUMBER. REINERATION. IF AUY, AGENCY.

PERSONNEL

Subject is an unpaid field agent of JKLANCE.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

SECTICA DE

QUALIFICATIONS FOR GTALA OPERATIONS

INDICATE SPECIAL

68% OTHEN DERRATIBAS.

ABILITIES, PALERTS, OR DUALIDICATICAS POSSESSED BY SUBIIES

SHICH COULD CORCEIVABLY DE DE DALUE

Subject has been in Latin America for a

number of years during

which tise ha has nunerous contacts and

friends.

SECTION

COMMITMENTS

ROBOLLD TO PAY

SUOSIDE CA: OTHEN NETI:S, SPECIES AND GIVE

SUBSLEY A MIGULAR SALATY, INDICATE: INE BEENLY, AUGUNT, IF PAYMENT-TO BE MADE IT ERDIGAGE

DETAILS.

Subject is not paid/salary by the Station.

MERRIO. BADE TO SUBJECT. (ERCOpSO: COmmitRents

Hone

SECTION II

CE AND SECURITY

IBDICATE THE PILLE ASGAGIES AND FIELD FILES MITO MAICH

SUBJECT'S MAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

files have been checked re Subject.

PADICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES JANIS TO VERIFY BIOGRAPNICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

Rone.

INDICRTE BITTHIA; ON:D:I: PROVISIONAL OPEDATIONAL

FROVAL TOO SUBJECT'S -SE DAS BIEN PALIOUSLY OUTAINED.

•APPROVAL DE OFCAATIONAL AF.

Operational Approval

A- DATE APPADDAL OBTAINED

6 June 1960

Subject is an extle Cuban businessman tEa KIrdig Character ho is

highly respected in the

Subject 18 en

Independent thinker and not til easily manipulated.

Subject set several tines to ata businece ot

* Cuban representative,

While at the office

and on 2

occasions talked with the co. At the time Subject felt

talk about these contacts to Cuban officials.

would no

This occurred ten years

ago in Mexico and l

does not believe this incident will

SECTIOn XI adversEly elfect TuesT's PERSONA wisiTs presert operational use of sabl

8- USI OF LIQUOR, DRUGS: CANEL IME.

PARAMOURS.

Subject not known to have suy overt vices.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECRET

AVOCATICHAL INTERESTS

SECTION

XI!!

119016A98 459905 Mete

Boring enthusiast

SECTION

TIW

GEN CHAL

INDICATE BAL THEN

SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE

AGILiTIES AND GIRLS CHARACILBISTICS, ARE SUCA AS HE COULD PASS

OF A COUNTRY OR RIGIDA

DINER THAN MIS DUH.

ExPLAIN.

Subject could pass. as a native of any latin American country...

NATIVE

INDICATE SHETHEA INFONMATIDO IN PAC PARTS I AND 1I

DAS JATAINED BY BESEARCH, CLAADESTINE ASSESSULAI.

FILES,

CURRESPONSETEE OR OTHER

inforsation

obtained

through

files,

LIFEAT, name checks ofl

and

Government files,

and Headquarters.

IT OINEA TARA ROUTINE ACTION IS RIQUIRLO, DE ANO BALT PERMINATION DO SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EUPLAIN. (AISO

вев рага.

#3d.

napray

NA

'; "

SECTION

EMERGD CY

CONDITICHS RECCATACT ARRANGEMENTS

GIVE FULL DETAILS INE. RICOGSITION SIOUS. S/NI

COULD COSTAL? BE MADEL

ANDY BOMA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL

MAKING CONTACT

USE!

Not'applicable for the circunstances in which he is being used.

Should

there be a break. between GICITRON-4 and

and this or another

Station want to meet with him to assess bim for other operational

actluities in the future it would only be necessary to mention his

friendship with

and his activities in conjunction with

SECTIOR AVI

MISCELLAAEOUS OPERATICHAL

REMARKS

SECRET

201-262295

---

## Page 18

POLARDUN FOR: Chief,

vn/3/col

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

NUMBER

201-267228

SUBJECT

CICIYRON/4

REFERENCE: Your Merorarium, Dated

28 Detcòer 1970

1A88

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject

as set forti telod.

A Provisionel Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the sage

authority, as a terporary bas's, for the use of an tedividual as the authority

granted in an Operational Approval unless otter ise specified by Cl/QA.

It 1s

based, however, oly on prelisinary file checks and investigation and 1s sub-

ject to a furtrer final revied ween all investigation is conpleted.

For linited use as requented in your nano of 28 October 1970, the POA

10 reinstated until 30 Jenuary 1971.

To process the Operational Approval, full inforation (completed PRQ

Parts I and II). must be submitied as soon as possible end not later than six

(6) months

fron this date.

Az Operational Approval sill follow wben all

investigation is coupleted

and upon the receipt of sacisfactory PRQ Parts I

and II.. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-

visions ceases.

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APFROVAI AD SUPFOT DIVISION

TORa 125

SECRET

DATE

30 October 1970

---

## Page 19

SECRET

28 October 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

EDBJBCT

CI/DA

:

GICITRON-A (201-267298)

l. No have received your memorendus. of 22 October 1970

Informing us that GICITRON-A's file bag been closed.

Horevor,

tron

Station correspondenco De know that GICITROY-4 18

still of operational interest and there is a strong probability

that the elesing PAC Port II has been delayed by the recent

restriction on pouching material to and fron the field.

It 1s roquested that the file on GICITON-A be reopened

and his POA be extended for an additional 30 days to allow time

for the FRO Part Il to arrive or to be prepared 11 necd be.

WH/3/Colonbi&

DISTRIBUTION:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - 1.1 File

I - 201 File

NH/3/C

(28 October 1970)

SECRET

---

## Page 20

14-000002

Acting Chief of Station,

NO 1E0URE KIOUTRED

ONCE QUALIND DISE

PERS NICE INDLING

FECAM

Chlof, Western Besisphere Division

GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

CTION MOVERED - REMAINGS

ACTION: Forward PRQ Part II

RRFERENCE: HLBS-2626, 15 September 1970

1. We have been notified that the POA for GICITRONA was

cancelled on 22 October 1970 because ve failed to provide &

PRQ Part II sbowing the details of our present relations with

bin.

He mode on attempt to complete this Part lI here at the

desk, but found that tbere were too many itens of information

that to do not have.

We bave requested that GICITRON-A'S POA be extended for

an additional 30 days to allow time to provide the Part Il.

We indicated that perhaps the document has been delayed by the

recent pouch restrictions.

3. Do would appreciate the receipt of the PRQ Part II within

the next 30 days.

If it has crossed this dispatch

in the mall,

plense disregard this notice.

is."

DISTRIBUTION:

2-ACOS

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYRABOL AND BARBER

~ RI (F201)

1 - Chrono

SECRET

OFFICE

WH/3/C

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/3/C

DATE

28 cct 10

DATE

S0 OCT

and 28 octaber 1971

201-267298

ORIGINATING

COORDINATING

(28 October 1970) 2034R

OF CAJ HAME

RELEASING

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/3

DATE

28 Cct T0

1a0!

rosM

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

NFG: 11.08

DISPATCH

---

## Page 21

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DiTZ 22 October 1970 lc

MEMORLTDUM FOR: C/WH/3/C

ATTENTION

car,

pSA-

whit is states?

201 - 267298

The file

GICITRON/4

and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:

Is cancelled

Pailure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI to. 10-5 or to

indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use

of Subject.

Feeld nestfu

260et

1°

Prior to anj future use of Subject, It will be necessary to furnist

a new approval request (Form #T72) to CI/QA.

CHIEF, CI/OPERATION, APPROVAL AX SUPPORT DIVISION

%-g 69la

- SECRET

---

## Page 22

SECBET

Chief of Station,

MARKID TOR MALTIES

NO MIDILING RIGUEZO

DIAT QUALIFED DES

CAM AUDGE DUDDING

AUCROFILM

Chier,

Western Hemisphere Division

малс

GICITDOE1

(203-227255)

ACTION REQUIED - BEFRIALS

ACTION RENUIRED: Please forward PRe Part il.

The POA on GICITROR-A espired on 6 September 1970.

Please subait & PRQ Part I! based on the current proposed

use of GICITONd within 30 days.

DISTRIBUTIOS:

2 • C03/

LESS REFERENUE SO

DEPACHS SYMBOL AND PENIN

HLB5-2626

CATALAIN

SECBET

-

1 - R201)

- Chrono

JFKI

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATICER

DATE

16 SEP 1970

15 Septembe

HOS FILE BURGER,

201-267298

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

COORDINATING

3AR

DATE

RELEASING

C/WH/3

1/5J %.

HORAL

I-63

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

DISPATCH

---

## Page 23

SECRET

DATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

7 September 1970 JR

TO:

40.

WH/3/C

•FROM:: CHIEF, CI/OR

201-267298

SUBJECTS.

GICITRON/ 4

- IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERSTION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL

IN THIS CASE.

IT IS REQUESTED

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE

THE INFORMATIDN CHECKED BELOW.

OR

REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

FIELD TRACES

TRACES

OREDATIONAL

AND

DIvISION TRACES

DESULTS

TECHNICAL INTERROSATION

LISY

GEVIEN OF STAFFID DOSSIER

REVIED OF STAFELD COLLATERAL IEDETATION

REVIET OF SECURITY OFF.

REPORT AT. CI/OA

REVIEN DE

SEE.

OFf.

CONCURRENCE MINO AT CI/OA

REPORT AT CI'DA

P.B949

OTHERS

(See denarde)

NOTICE:

REMAERS:

Limited POA expired 6 September 1970. Please submit PRQ I.

If, within 30 days, no further interest in Subject has been indicated, POA

will be automatically cancelled.

ira catas

889

SECRET

1801

---

## Page 24

WEnt baban

EXCRET

Chies of Statdon:

NO MOOCHE ESSED

ONLY QUALTE DETE

CAN NOGE MODENG

HON

SUBJECT

Ches, Hentern Henisphere Diviaien

ALTON HOUNED - MIHRINKIS

FOrAIdIAS Of PRe'S I And II On CICITRON-1

ACTIOR BEQUIRED:

Fore.

REFERENCE

: BLBS-2533, & April 1970

Forwarded herewith as Attachrent I for Station

Information and the file aro: teo -(2) copies of PQ Part-II

for GICITRO, A (forBerly LITANIL)). Separate Cover Attach-

ment, Nuaber 2, to this dispatch consists of tro (2) coples

of PRQ Part 1.

ATTACHMERTS:

1.

P23 Part

2.

P3Q Fart

DISTRIFETIGE:

3 - CCS/

II, b/o

w/s/c

1(8/28ts 1 & 8 Lino copies esch7, ble & u/e/c)

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DARE

1 =

: RI (201)

Chrono

XLES-2564

CLATERCATON

BECRET

OPACE

WH/3

CIFICE STMBOL

DATE

C.NR/3/C

13 May 70

20 MAY BRE

704m30

13 Bay 1970

301-267398

(13. May 70)

EIT.

9494R

COORDINATING

518.

.0

DELATIALE

OFFICE JYEBO!

C/NH/3

PORA

53

13 May 70

6003

VAR PREVIOUS EDITION

MIFI. 11-98

DISPATCH

parisis.

---

## Page 25

PRO ::0.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

1ÖI-11/NT/5 PART / - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS:

SECTIOR I

iceble, Beite "Na"

sed.

GEMERAL PERSONAL ANE PHYSICAL DATA

Twiddley.

MATIVE LANGUAGE CA SCRIPT

#IOSHANES., TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IS MAME

(N00)

Paot then Ites 3-

Tise, reason Ter and place at usey

PLACE OF BURTH

MATE P

PERSONAL MAGAYS (LIQUOR.

PAIADOBIS)

COURT RECONO (COUPE,

SEX

D. AGE

DESCRIPTION

fl'8+

E- APPARENT AGE

M. COLOR

OF MAd#

I, COLOR OF EYES

0126k

SCARS AND MAINS OR OTHER DISTINGUISMING FEATURES

Fiancarde el

NEIGAT

j. TEETH

iT possible)

P. COMPLEXION

[9. FACE (Stape)

T. BUILD

T. POSTURE

Go DEALERt

APPEARANCE

O. PHOMINENT FEATURES

P. OTHER IDERTOFYINE FEATURES

ATTACH SAMPLES OF SIGTATURE AND HANDEZI TING:

ALSO SATED PROGRAPH

FOR#

I-88

1050 I58 08E0008 881

IF ORAINABLE

44- 10).

---

## Page 26

SECTION

CITIZENSHIP

PATIDRALITY AT BIRTH AND ANY SUBSCQUERT CIPSZENSAIOS (NI diSSERONE thAN SION 2O.)

PRESEAT BESICENCE (Indicato as o

danand Of Aub-8en18)

1S. PERMANENT ABERESS. (Al dillorone than lean 18.)

MATUDALILED CITIZEN, GIVE NAME, DATE, CUTY. AND NUMBER OF CERTIPICATE GALATED

OUT5108

RESIDENCE (Conasries.

cod purposes)

SECTION

PRESENT OCELPATION

FINANCIAL STATUS (Earnings,

OCCUPATIONAL

11Z. TITLE

deposits,

FINANCIAL DATA

18. SALANY (PEr BOSOM)

and property)

SECTION IV

:O.CIMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS OSGAMIZATIONS

ORGAMIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

¡PRESENT AND-PASY MEMBERSMIP IN PROFESSIONAL AID SOCIAL ORGARIZATIONS, POLITICAL AFFALIRRIONS

SECTION Y

88.

MADE ARDILOCATION OF SCHOOL

EDUCATIONAL CATA

SCHOOLS

MANE OF COURSE

DATES ATTENDED

8 8 80

+9

ECEIVEI

LANGUAGES

AND

DIALECTS

BANGUAGE

READ

of competenco. )

YES

COMPETENCE

##ITE

TES

KO

TES

UNDERSTAND

YES

---

## Page 27

14-00000

• BECTICA YO

B9M1L84H

SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

eIve DEPaILS LocLuDIG pITIES

JAMES GE

• PUBLISHEDS AND PEALICA.

IS, SPECIAL LEILLS.

•

SECTION TI

MILITARY SERVICE:

SaTES

UMI?

& Bog a

BUTY®

"IDENTIFYINE COUNTRY, INDICATE THERE SERVICE PERFORMED, DECORATIONS.

PRISOBER.

AND WHY DISCHARGEO.

GIVE DETAILE.I$ BAN

SECTION

TADICATE CHIAVULOGICAL

INCLUSIVE. DATES (FEAT-TO

26

TYPE DE

WORK

SALART OR EARNINGS

INCLUSIVE DATES (TrO-TOLD. EMPLOYER

27.

dO TUDE OF MORE

SALARY

OR

EARNINGS

RECLUSIVE

DATES (ErOR-TOS

EMPLOTER

TIPE DE WORK

SAL ANY

OR EAANINGS

INCLUSIVE DATES (FROG-TOND.

EMPlOYER

d.

TYPE OF WORK

SALART OR EARNINES

INCLUSIVE DATES (FrOO-JO

D. EMPLOTER

30

TYPE OF'BORK

EMPLOTHENT MISTORY

EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POS1 9107

FIRST.

C• ADDRESS

REASOR ESA LEAVING

C. ADDBESS

F. REASON FOR LEAVING

AOLAESS

REASON TOM LEAVING

..

ADD#E $5

REASON FEN LEAVING

c. ADDRESS

REASON: FOR LEAVING+

S'CRUDI ANY COVERTHETT

EXPLOTHET.

---

## Page 28

14-0000g-1F05 w,.

SECTSCA

1x

11. 6ofce 090:1

SINGLE

PLACE

MARITAL STATUS

BARRIED

*IDO0L0

#OR ALL SEPARATIDHS.

DIVORCES DE AUBULMENTS

MUSBAND!

38 - 8908

AE YOU HAVE

BECY MARRIED MORE THAS DUCE.

GIVING

A2:H 8

INCLUDIAG BONUMENTS, USE SALES TOO EOPER BIFE

00 HUSBAND

REQUIRED RELON FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

SPOUSE

(Widdle)

(Moo)

(2.080)

3A. DATE OF MARDIAGE

DA-DALE OF BIOTH

3B. RETIONALITY AT BIATH

aD.

SECTICN X

38. PLACE DF MARRIAGE.

3T. PLACE OF BIRT

30. SUBSEQUENT CITALCHSHIES

CHILDRES

VE AR

DF

BIA TH

PLACE OF BIRTH

SATIOMALITY

AP. BIATH®

"ÉUBSEQUENT CITIRCASMIPS MELO BY ANY CHILD (IdeNtily child ond dire bia.

preton! addreday

r.aok

SECTION XA

8- FUEL MAME

SUBSEQUENT CITITENSHIPS

SECTION XIA

SO. FLAL MAME

ELESEQUENT CITIRENSMIPS

48, VEAR OF BIRTH

AB- OCCUPATION

4D. YEAR OF BIRTH

53. OCCUFATION

FATHER

AN. PLACE OF BIRTH

MOTHER

SO. PLACE.

68. PRESENT RESIDENCE

THEATR

SA. PRESEAT RESIDENCE

44. BATIONALIET AT BIATA

HATIONALITT AT BI#T

---

## Page 29

14-00000

SECTIGE XIAD

BROTHERS AND SISTERS

TEAR

81#T6

PLACE OF BIATH

RATIOOALEPO AT BIAT.

"SUASIQUIRY CITITENSIIIS MELO

AAY BROIMER OR

SISTER (Identify

brother.

SECTICE •XIN

RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

I. MANES DE GELATIVES IN ANY GOVERNHENT SERVICEI INDICATE LAME OF GOVEERMENIS AND POSITIONS MELO.

BE-RELATIVES.

(Explain

relationship)

57. NATURALIIATION

In U.S. (dire nead, dole

Rasber-of-certificate-granted,,

ALIASES. TELECODES AND RELATIGUSHIP OF ALL. PERSONS-ANONY.TO -DE. CONFECTED. IN AYT. WAY MITH ART INTELLIGENCE

SERVICE.

SECTION

37.1053

CLOSE ASSOCIATIS, IHDIVIDUALS OR GAOUPS

PERSONAL

ASSOCIATIONS

resets,

SECTION AWA

MISCELLANEOUS

---

## Page 30

SECRET

EVI.

PRY. 90

This

fore sant de

formation.

falle

CRYPTONTH

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH DO.

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICEE

of appropriano aulhorder on the banie of the best-ere lablo la-

to old

Aiseeddone

approral ser be

obtained be

12b

iS 128, Thoroalsor the unnal sethod. lo

document as com

10-815.

in subjoct's hinderitina, il pondiblo, and ema (a) com.

8000

poasible.

blo seiro •NA."

Il odditional space escuired

#SEUDONYM

SECTION I

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

INDICATE NOW, INEN, SNEAL, MUY, AND OY SHDA SUBJECY DAS FIASE CONTACIED ON DEVELOPED.

0b 1 oc: 39

(0x1-1554). Case offer door to the business vifice

pi Subject as & friend" ot

HI:O

presently

and formerly

ratiet of case orcer tael

eas ta toxico prior

Connists or BATISTA.

ins Oilacon moc contact with suolert.

order to 'ivel bla out ro his altiide toward the castRo recite.

Sation, ThiugO LIFEAT, mis able to evaluate Subject well beiore

the approach ras nace.

INDICATE BETHLR SUBJECT COURO BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANURE SO ANY RESPONSIDLE CASE GEFICER POA

MINDLING.

16 80. INDICATE TO WHOM.

Subjech coulo be turneo over to any Case officor with i speuking.

knowledge of Spanish.

LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS

ДЕЕН КНОНИ.

None

SUBJECT OR

WHOM HE GROWS

OR MAS-UNOEN, GIVE NAMES BY NICH THEY HAVE

1050a

SECRET

---

## Page 31

SECRET

SECTICE A6.

ESTIMATE SURECT-S ROTIVATION. (De derailed.

NCTIVATION AND. CONTROL

a§ possiblo cite pridence. Do not

i 5)

208lodid

jui;

Roveset:

.1.10?:,

?.:.

ortay condiary tarin

is 110d.

reen convineed unit. the CASINO Doriad lus boid

Consonists and CASTRO, mis forcer

infiltratoo

Lie re

cone nothing

about i.

10.1%.

::.

Tristist

!!!

/cia

IRIICATE MAI COnTAIL.

''F'ANT," ANISES OVER'TAL SUMACT. (If no costral, or il thore da a lack'al poal consrol

kase Officer has little controi a no contros over

subgees,

is nore oi a cooperative errongement werin Subgect is ritzine

¿U AB:iSE POPRING :1

its cesire

SECTIE III

1. COMER USED BY

COVER

OFFICEA IN THEID MEETINGS:

recting usually it

11I2NIL-15 busanese office, where Coae

orticer could mas an i

ciient

ESAR USED BY SUBICT IN OUTAIMINE MIS INTORNATIDN AND IN CONTACTING NIS INFORMANTS.

Subjece,

long tise frioco of otticinis of the cuban Embassy,

listens

10 his dilends relato taclo probinas & outivities

YADICATE SERVICE FOR UNICH SURECT THINKS NI (UILA DOrA) (SE LOOKinG).

Subject knuis he 15 cooperating Gith TAPEllE intelligence ugency.

SECT 13A

INTELLIGENCE CONBECTIONS AND TRAINING

BLAIN SUBJECT'S ABODE PAST ON PRESENT COSNICTION MITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGERCE SERVICE, INDICATE THE EXTENT

SIDO: CONNECION IS aNDER OVERTiN.

JoJect is not koon to hive sorked for any intelligence servee;

hoever.

his service hitb the

26 01 July Movesunt

during the

period 1957-58, has calipped min veil for intelligence or.

OPHIN. INDIVIDUALS (AGORIA, POlASiTEO, friENdO) MO ANON OF SUBJECT-S PALSENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

LITANIL- Knows that Subject is cooperating with PePRIME.

D. 'ERPLAIN ANY TRAINIDE SUBJECT HAS HAD IN

iSTIBE OPERATIONS.

done.

Horever,

Subject is involvec in several clancestiae

novements while treasurer of the 26 of July sovement during

1957-56.

SECTICE Y

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

IBIICATE OTNER FOREICH POSER SUBJECT MOULD BE MOST LIKELY

TO COLLABORATE WITH BECAUSE OF MUS IDEOLOGY OR PAST

ASSICIATIONS.

EXPLAIN.

Cuska Government.

SECRET

---

## Page 32

SECRET

SECTION VE

OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

JUBIECE MAS BEEN USED GO CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN PHILA ME HAS ESGAGEO AND THE SYPE OF INTON-

MATION ME WAS FURNISHED.

LUriNg 1958

Subject

CiRE

Officer inc

rint

iguid

there di

one

not to chie

contact viib

the

Chite

Ofilter

to s. y

iu tine i nie ibr

INDICATE HOW AND FRON

The des

InFORMATION.

subject

obtaios his

iniornation fron otisctali in the Cubin

INDICATE INAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION ME FURNISHES.

subject is taro that toe inforaction le movides is scot to

Marinaton

DITAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED TO OR CA TUPE USE OR DUTIES.

Subject

1:13

¿ssist

in coordlouting enti-casmo accivitios to

MeXiCO dE pirE

of the Aniall

upcrition.

DETAIL

SUBJECT•g

XA

SECTION .HIS

PROPOSED LIAISON CR: OPERATIONAL: ACTIVITY

SUBJECT'S PROPOSEO LIALSON TIPE SONTAGI DR DRCRATIONAL VIE:

•.. NHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

NA

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL DE ANOTHIA AGENCY OF THIS GOVERNMENTS

NA

SECTION VALE

AGENCY RELATIONSIIP WITH SUBJECT

EXPLAIN MATURE OF AGENCY

BELATIONSHIP DITH SUBJECTI DON. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBERI HENNERATIÓN. IF ANT. AGENCY

PERSONAEL KAOHS TO SUBJECT.

subject

is an u paid field agect of KUBARK.

SECRET

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

SECTICH AX

QUALIFICATICHS FOR GTHER OPERATIONS

IADICATE SPECIAL

ASILITIES, TALEBTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT EMICH COULD COSCEIVABLY BE DE VALUE

# Of

OTHER OPERATIONS.

Subport mos i printing plant and coccerere coule di necessly

provide printed saterini chancestinely.

SECTION A

COANITHENTS

IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAa SALARY.

INDICATE THE WEENLY AMOUNY. IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN ÉNCHANGE

COMMODITIES.

SUBSIDY OR

OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AAD GIVE DETAILS.

Subject v1ll be given Eifis in eppropriate tines during the year.

•PLUGGARY HOMISIS, OTHERMISE NOT COVERED HIREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT, (EXODDS: COnDiRaRato

hone

:. B

CE AND SECURITY

PADICATE THE FIELO AGENCIES AÑO FIELD FILES BITA UNICH SUBJECT'S MAME HAS BEEN CHECKED ADD THE RESULTS.

and beacoburtors ilies bove been cacchee re

Stution

Subjeet

INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MLASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPNICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED AT SUBJECE.

rid also run on subject.

A linanciad sheer by

ADICATE SHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL

APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP.

A. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED

FROVAL BOR SUBJECT'S USE MAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.

ini?

Dation: chordel

EVALUATE-SUGLECT'S CHARACTER.

EELIABILITY RD SECURITY.

CITING EVIDENCE INtRE POSSIBLE.

SubJ

1N + 1100541

CuiD

•sancasmin tho docicatoo

TIDE É MONEY CO

the Cuben

of Juiy novenout in Mexico durlug 57-58. Ne:is

Di

strode enurictor l bignly thought of by most members of the Cuban

colony in Mexico. de is an Indepenient thinker & cannot be pusbed

around

*- EXFLAIN ANY SITUATION OR, INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED NICH MUST BE EVALUATEO ERO A

RE/OPERATIONAL

SECURITY VIENPOINT.

Ine Lise O11ke1

met LITAMIL-1 ou soveral

nccisions curiog the past year at his.

business office.

While it

Cubun Chargeus his beec

the office,.

cuse Officer. it

the difice and on

InDoccasions

talked with Case

OffIcer.

LITAMIL-l bolieves that

will not tols about these

SUBJECT•S PERSONAL HABITS

SECTION XII

8. USE OF LIQUOR, DRUESS GAMBLING. PARAMOURS.

Subject aut knon 10 hore any obvious vices.

SECRET

---

## Page 34

14-00000

SECRET

ECTION KAUR

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

INDICATE

SUBJECT'S NOBBIRS ON INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIE. ETC.

Borios cothusiast

SECTION IIN

GENERAL

INDICATE METHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND

OF A COUNTI• OR REGIOR

OTHER THAN HIS ON.

EXPLAIN.

OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS ME COULD PASS

Subject could pres as

native of uny Letin Anoricin country.

INDICATE CHEMER

INFORNATION

CORRESPONDENCE

O8 OTHEN WLANS.

IN PRO FARTS I AND IN HAS OBTAINLO EY RESEARCH, CLASUESTINE ASSESSALES. FILES.

filen.

nor Heanuartera.

OTHER

THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED, IF AND #HRO TERMIRATION

€30, supra)

OF SUBJECT IS LEFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN.

(Al no

SECTION AV

EMEAGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGENDITS

GIVE FUiL CETAILS

'MARINE ECOLATE'USE IT, DECOGASTION SIGRALS, SIME MHERE COULD CONTAGE BE MADES

WHAT BOMA FIDES COULD INDIVIOUAL

SECTION IVI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER

SECRET

---

## Page 35

1d-nnod

Chios of Station,

Ax®.

NO BEERSE ROUIRED

ORI! DEALS NO DESK

CAN SEC BOLONE

SUET

Chief, Western Bentsphere Division

GICITRON 4

ACTRE RIORDID - LIARIKES

References:

A.

B.

MLAT 1475

DIRECTOR 006731

Headquarters will preparo Paps I and If and

forvard centes to Station Bogota. Reference A vas A

sunrary of pertinent Inicruation fros GICITIONA'8

201 11l0.

Distribution:

2 - 003/

NA 10 01: 8 MA

:":

MOSS REFERENCE TO

1:8: 7.19: 59

6:03:::

.. Chrono

DATE

10 APR 19/0

1643

chunion

SECRET

HIS RANT A 1070

201-26,289

OFACE

WH/3/C

ORITNANNG

COFFICER

Judy Hoopes

(mac 6 AprIl 1970% 9491

COORAIMANHG

OFFICE SYMBOL

DAJE

C/WR/3/c

Caleke

M. Patt

Calvin M.

Smyth

OFFICE STABOL

DC/NF/3

DArE

RO 53

USE PREVIOUS HOMON

ATTA, 81-008

RELING

OSTICERS SENATURE

alchard Conolly

DISPATCH

---

## Page 36

DISPATCH

Chief, Westera Henlaphere Darision

cameron

SIGRET

PROCESANG ACTION

MARKED FER BRAKHIG

NO ESDOMISE PIOURED

CHAY QUALFED DESK

CAN NICE EDDONG

BUCTOPLA

REFO

F80E

Chiol of Statico,

AREN

GICITRON -44

LETION: REQLONED - REFLRENGES...

REFERDICES!

Ao HIBS 2503, 16 March 1970

B.

3423, 20 January 1970.

lo The receipt of Heferance A Provisional Uperational Approval for Subject

was mich appreciated.

We were puzzled, howeve., by

the request for PRQ Parts 1

and Il on GICi?30l l since all biographic and operational data on his with the

exception of zeferences and DIRECTOR 006731 1s on record bEly at Beadquarters as

for as lo are avare unleas

has retained their old file en hin.. Far-

graph 3 of Reference B specifically requested that pertinent material from Subject's

but we bave never receivea it.

20

despite his old friendship with Subject, has no present

justifiable reason

_ to question nir regarding all the blo

Graphic dotails required for preparation of a full PRa fart lo nor could

logically elicit Iron Subject the anavers to suca PRO Pari II Items as "ich, whea,

where, why and by whon subject was first contacted or developed" by knock,

other case officors who have haniled Subject or whom he knows or haa known...", and

Subject's propesed present operational use is detalled 1n Reference B, and

Headmuarters has the rest of the basic data necessary for preparation of both parts

of the PRQ. I: Is therefore surgested that this be dons at leadquarters, inta

copies. boing forsarded tol

for updating.

DISTRISUTICNS

Original ani tro - Chief, tHD

CROSS FERREE TO

DISPATCH STILL AND HUNGER

HLBT-4475

SECRET

DRFE

25 March 1970

HIS FILE HUMSER

201-267298

---

## Page 37

BBCEST

Chief of Station

co'd

• 20 206 E282

19:: F 0021255238

19S IDEA BERNALS

Hittin

Chief, Western Bensphere DIvision

GICITRON -4

Reference:

3483

DIRECTOR

06731

OB 6 March 1970 a PAA was (ranted GICITRON 4

to mermit his to fors & corporation

No other operational use

18 authorize:.

2. Please subnit a PAQ I and Il as so0n a8 possible.

Distribution:

• m COS

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Cryint, 19

RI (201-267298)

- Chrono

DESPAiLA DINGO: AND MESSA

ILBS 2503

CASPERS

SECRET

MAICE

WH/3/C

OFFICE STAREDE

C/wH/3/C

DATE

17 MAR 1B70

16 Barch 1970

I MOS FILE BUGGER

201-267298

CRIGIRATING

•SACIATING

Ima 26 Mar 702

19421

OSTICE S1MBOL

C/WH/ 3

16 Mer 70

2==

EC3H.00

DAlt

16 that

FOR 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

NFG. 1100

DISPATCH

---

## Page 38

MEMORANDUM FOR: Cale:,

wn/3/col -

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVEL

201-267238

SIOJECT

CICTUROS A

REFERENCE: Trun l'enarendan, Deses

22 JaPaRTY 1970

888

A Provisional Operacinnal Approval is granted fre rue use of inis sabject

aS

set orch belo..

A Prorisional Operational Approval Lasses hu CI Frate graces the sere

authorizy, on a temporary basis,

Irt the ise of an instridual as tre

autor 19y

granted in an Operational Approial miese curemise specifies ay CI/OA.

It :9

based, brever, only er prelimicars

file resus and investigation and 1s susa

Ject

er. a furtier final reviei when all iriestigatim is copiered.

to other

operational use authorized.

tation sea

13. MAR 1970

To process the Operational Approval, full information (coupleted PRA

Parts I and il) must be subuitted as soon as possible si not later then six

(6) montis fron this date.

An Operational Approval will follow ben all

Investigation is completes and upon ibe receipt of salistactory FRe Parts I

and II.

Cancellation must be requested is use of Subject. by interested Di-

visions ceases.

CI /OPERATICAL APFROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISICE

рони 125:01

APPROSAL

SECRET

DATE

6 Farch 19T0

{*1

---

## Page 39

14.00000

SECRET

1 Harch 1970

HXNORAKDUM

POS:

Counter Intelligence/Operational

Approval and Support Group

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

GICITROY (201-267283)

& roview of the Stall D dossier on Subject reveals

no derogatory information.

Distribution:

1

WH/3/C

CI/OA

(201-267298)

Memo Chrono

1 - Extra copy file

19494 (1 March 70)

SECRET

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR IMFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:

21 February 1379

1935

WBC/C -

FROM: CHIEF, CI/CA

102-257223

ORDER

410107:0H/4

THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVIN

THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE

YOUR

THE

INFOAMATION CHLCKED BELOW.

BEQUEST FOR RESOUVAL

IN THIS CASE.

IT IS RECESTED

REVIES INFORMATION AS

INDICATED.

TRACES

8 5:8.941

0F

AAD

DIVISIDE

TECHNICAL

GRACES

PEVIED DE

0F

B'B-DOSSIER

CI/CA

COLLATERAL IGFONMATION

ofF.

BEFIT AT CB/OA

CONCURDLECE REMO AT CIÍOA

BEFDRT AT CI/CA

REFERENCE

nOTICE:

889

SECRET

420$

---

## Page 41

SECRET

DATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:

9 February 1970

NO.

11S8

4B, 3/c

FROM: CHIEF, CI/Ci

201-257298

SUBJECTS

GICTFRON/4

IN ORDER

THAT FURTKER CONSIDERATION MAY DE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR

THAT YOU FURNISA THIS OFFICE.

INFORMAT CHECKED BELOW: OR REVIER INFORMATION AS INDICATES. REQUESTEE

TRACES

TRACES

#ATIONAL

CRIES LIST

AND

DIVISION

OF TECANICAL IATERROGATION

DOSESEN

TO CI/CA

'D COLLETERAL INFORMATICH

REPORT AT CI/CA

REVILS OF SEC..OFF.

& SACURRENCE MEMO AT CO/OA

REVIEN OF FBI

REPORT AT CI/DA

REVIEW DE ATTACHED REFIDENCE

OTNERS (Ser Resarks)

889

SECRET

---

## Page 42

and Deeds merced

•SUBSECT TYPE NAME TA RORAS LETTERS - SURNAME

SECRET

LPSEZCASEY

1-2672

-TASES, VARTANT SPELETAG. SIC NUMBERS, ETE.

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

S. PRELLAPICTIVITY ANO LOCATION

So OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

7.

PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY

SERVICE

ACTIVITY

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST

NAME CHECK

DATE

TO

CHIEF, FI/D

ORIGINATING-OFFICER'

HAHE

0FF1

RCOM,

BUILDING

WEL/3/C

EXTENSION.

3B 2627

TYPE OF REGUEST TACOIT

O FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

ADDITIONAL DATA

RECHECK FOR CURRENT

BATEREST IN SUBJECT

(CHECK ONE)

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

UTKER

LOCATION

DATES

Now 59

159

B. OTHER: SIGNIFICANT-DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION, - ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

%. DESCRIPTION

(HEIGHT)

(WEIGHT)

(EYES)

(HAIR)

(RACE)

(OTHER)

16. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE FAIDEN NAKE)

OTHER MEMBERS OF

IMMEDIATE FAMILY ARO

12- INFORMATION REQUIRED (DEFINE SPECIFICALLY.

NOT FULLY MEET REQUIRERENTBAL TERES, SUEM AS "DEROGATORY" MAY RESULT IN & SEARCH THAT DOES

And Infornation

INSTRUCTIONS: SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETEL' SEE EST 10-7

16-80 501 usE

SECRET

---

## Page 43

SECRET

TO:

÷÷3 1370

DATE

FROM:

FI/D

B.

C.

D.

E.

A MENCRANDUM IS ATTACHED MERETO:

MITH THE LIMITED IDEOTIFICATION POOVIDED IN TRE FECUEST, FI/D IS UMABLE TO

DETERRIME WHETHER THEDE IS INFORWATISO ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

¿ FI/D RES NO PERTINENT IAFORMATICO DE SUBJECT. DE INFORMATION ADOUT THE

SUBULET APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT WILL BE GEPESTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES

AVAlLABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REGUEST IS AFPARIDTEY THE SUBJECI OF THE FOLLOMING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

MHEM TAE-SUNJEET IS NO LONGIO IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CARCELLATION

SOTICE COMPLETED. SHOULD BE SERE DO FI/D.

REVIER YOUR FILE OF THESE SADETS FREQUENTLY, DEO SEND TO FINO THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ADE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CORTINUING NAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FIÍD'S

¡FACILITIES WITN CONTINUING SEROCHES FOR INFOSMATION THAT IS MOT REQUIRES.

TO:

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

MAME

OFFICE DESIGMATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 44

74-00000

BOUTINE AND/ ON INTALS • BEEN BY

9494

30

Jan 70

SADLE SOCHETABLAS DISSENIATION

.JOTAL.COPHES

2?.!

SECRET

0561RO8

MATURN TO

RID COPY

NO INDEX

INFO!

FILE

date end tene filed)

31 1B 022 Jan70

FILE MA CS FEE NO.

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

(alise)

(reference turbar)

05731

INFO

GICITRON TECES

7

REF:

3483 (IN 010310)*

1.

SUBJECT

PARA 2 RET ASSIGNED GICITRON-4 AND

201-267298. HE WAS ORIGINAL MEMBER 26THI OF JULY MOVEMENT

BUT. BECAME DISILLUSIONED WITH ADMINISTRATIVE INCOUPETENCE

OS CASTRO REGIE (HE INVESTED $50,000 IN REVOLUTION) AND

SOVISTIZATION DE CUBA. HE TURNED AGAINST CASTRO IN 1959

AND WITH OTHER ANTI-CASTRO REVOLUTIONARIES SUPPLIED ARMS

-AB 1/0

Iff....

TO CUBAN COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES FROM HIS EXILE IN MEXICO.

WHILE IN MEXICO HE HAD EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN CUBAN DIPLOMAT-

IC. CIRCLES AND WITH CUBAN UNITED NATION AND MEXICAN POLICE

OFFICIALS. HB WAS RATED

144/310

HE WAS GRANTED OA 6 JUNE 60 FOR ASSISTING IN COORDI-

NATION OF ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO AS PART OF

OPERATIOY. BY 1963, HOWEVER, HIS OPERATIONIL

CONTACTS HAD BECOME MARGINAL AND THEREAFTER HE WAS NOT

USED BX STATION, THERE IS NO INFO AT HQS TO PRECLUDE YOUR 201-269298;

PROPOSED USE OF HIM. WE PROCESSING POA.

IS COPY.

CONTIN SANTO

COORDIATERS. OFFICERS

SECRET

09SENF8AN

himation

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

¡ REPRODUSTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED.

copy No.

---

## Page 45

7 800fts

DATES

CABLE SECRETAITAS DIASIARATIONi

ILD

MASSACE DOMA

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

DJ INDEX

BOUTUSE AND/ OR INITIALS - BEER EY

9

Ca ИН °70

RID/EDLED com

- BRANCHE

FILE IN CE FOE NO N

AID/EDI

(date end fire files)

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

TO T. PAGE THO

2. CONCUR IN REF PROPOSAL THAT IMPROVEVENT GICITRON

RECEPTION COULD IMPROVE PRODUCT AND, HENCE, WORTH PURSUING.

THOUGET OCCURS TO HQS THAT. GISOY-92, BEING AWARE GICITRON

OPERATIOY, WOULD PROBABLY SUSPECT PROPOSED

OFFICE IN GICITRON BUILDING IS NEW LP. DO YOU PLAN MAKF

GISOY-92 WITTING OF

ROLE? IF NOT, WOULD HE BE

PIQUED IF HE LATER LEARNED OF IT? WHAT REPERCUSSIONS

COULD THIS HAVE ON STATION/GISOY RELATIONS? WOULD APPRECIATE

YOUR CONIENTS.

3. PILE:

201-267298.

(elite)

reference sume

006731

7

(alca)

7

END OF MESSAGE:

* Ref proposed renting office space in building where Novost1

news agency is located so that Station could acquire clocer

LP for monitoring "take" from present tech installation of

Novosta.

C/WHD

WH/1

WH/2/P

SB/X/WH

TOD/AOB

ANNO

SECRET

REPRODUCT

"BY OTHER THAM THE ISSUING OFFICE

(by phole

CHOI

nimalisatien

ROHIBITED.

C/WH/3

AUTHENTICATG

OFFICIE

COFT НО

---

## Page 46

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR LUSESTIGATIVE ACTION

10r8)

PLEASE CUNPLETE LACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLAVE

IDATE

22 Jan 70

70: 2

CO/OPEPATIONAL APPROVAL ASO SUPPORT DIVISION

FROM:

CHIEF.

INVESTIGATION AND SLAPORT DIVISICÃ, CFFICE. OF SECURITY

CHIEF

PERICNNEL SECURITY DIVISION.

GIFICE OF SEGRITY

SUBJECT:

Base)

PROJECT

C-80: 35

сететовум.

PSEUDORIS, ALA DA ALIASES

CB/DA FILE NO.

LITANIL? (Poiner Crypt)

X 7-34940 06

#$ 209 FILE

NO.

221-252293

SO FILE AO.

TYPE

ACTION REQUESTED

AROPMIETARY APPROVAL

PROVAL

1 SPacdal

IQUIAY (50 field intestigation)

CONTRACT TYPE B

SECURITY APFROVAL

CEVERT SECUAIT? APPROA

CONTRACT TYPE &

SPECIFIC ALLA DE USE

#: BURL DETAILE OF USE

A. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

KOS. GOVEBBLIRY INTEREST MAY BE SHQNA DURING LAVESTIGATION!

CIA SATEREST. MAT DE BHODD DURINE INVESTIGATIOES

C. '8 BUDDECT ADARE OF U.S, GOVERAMENT INTEREST IN MINS

.

'85

SUBJECT AWARE CE COA INTEREST DA HIM!

d.

INDICATE AtT

LINITATIDNS ON COVERAGE PA THE INVESTIGATIOS OF SUBJECT.

P. BUEGEST "CONtA

PACTEXTO TO BE USCO IN CONDUCTINE PERSONAL IBLESTIGATION BE SUBJECT.

00 YOU FRAN TO MAKE

SUbJECT

8F

8Q INVERTIGATION OUTSIDE

WITTING

CIA.

EIPLAIN FULLY

AGENCY DA COVEGANENT

ANTERESTI

$.

POO 1. OR SOUITALIAS, IN 121 COPIES ATTACHEO

IN IID COPY ATTACNEO

RECORD

WILL FORWARD

RECORD

NO

HECORD

NO DEROGATINY ALFO.

LIST SOURCES CHECREO DONata E

NOT INITIATIO (ExpIADAtiON)

PRO AND GREEN LIST

STATUS

PRO IA. BILL BE FORBARDED

i GREEN

LIST

ATTaCHED.

RI TRACES

BOB-DEROGATORY

DIVISION TERES

AUB-DEROGATONY

FIELD TRICES

BILE FORWARD

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

¡SIGTIFICATE INFORMATION ATTACHEE

N5494

TO Brie

SECRET

VI. S

A6D

2 0 ріб то

ITE%

DEFOGATORY ATTA

bargaide

ira.

---

## Page 47

27 January 1965 travoied Enor Mexico City to Venezucia

en & toorist visa.

14 April 206% travelled from Cuba to Mexico on

1ile

Issued 19 January 1959. The rassport was

Consul,

extended 14 April 1964 for 3 years by the Cuben EriKkI.

Mexico City•

---

## Page 48

14-00000

wH/ 3/C

SECRET

(uben Filled ley

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUENT IDENTIFIEETION

DATE OF

Doc.

FILE CLASSIFICATION GE

"ICORD COPY

DOC: SUBJECT

SOURCE INFORMAT+ON

SOUNCE CRYPTONTI

DATE OF INFO.

EVALUATIOU

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Alao cite doc.

diet.

No. are. - Tr applicable)

79125217

RACHALD Losa, Bamal

308-267293

17/3/c

PEES IS A RESTRIÇRDO CI/CA FC 23 CH TEE SUBJECT

OF FEIS 201 -

9E 44 200

ABSTRACT FILE SLIP, -2e2"9

Indicate The Subject, Project Or

201 File No. In Which This

Form Is To Be Filed-

SUBIECT DE 201 (Last.

Firat.

middle)

201-

26 72

98

# Out

#- 6H

367

SECRET

---

## Page 49

SFK * DOS 7

050-003-138/03

+ 491-331937

11 JA4 25

CIT?

OrC 7

P?

PE CUBAN GUFANSENT EOCK ON MEXICAN PHASE OF

THE PEVOLUTION

FIO I %DEE ONLY

UFG

250

WH/G06 Cards

2o gan 1970

concerns

---

## Page 50

Ti6: (000-867396)

no-10197, 1 gior orle 1.

"trare?

Fasa 9s

F6-1

→a1 betis 20 19,241.

.9%k

Sha 40.9

:=79.500

Press

1157

---

## Page 51

CABLE SECRETARIAT DESEMRATION

PEASOVLAEY

Footers terrie

LASSIFIEO MESSAGE

ADVANCE DORY

TOTAL COPIES 21-

(When, illed In)

BLOTTED

REPRODUCTION DE THIS COPY PROHIBITRO

O ves

CLASSIFY TO CH PLE NO.

KNIP TO CS FRE NO -

O FLENO O RETURN TO

FILE, VR

RIAN, CL, ClOPs, GIZ, TSAL

LOUTORA ANDIOR INITIALE A

1

IBE BY.

ACTION WAST

FER.

ACTION WA

ких

881

SECRET 261705Z JAN 70 CITE

2329

MESS

INFO DIRECTOR,

GICITRON

TECKS

REF:

3483 (U 010310) -

1 NO DATA

USING

PER PARA 2, REF.

2. FILE: 281-267298.

SECRET

STATION WHICH MILITATES AGAINST

DRANCH.

_ACIING)

26 JAN INO 1 3404

I US

A3bo

#ED

IS COPY

SECRET

201-267298

26 JANUTO

---

## Page 52

taintion.

N7/5/5

SECRET

6

Do tho

.3

REPROCH, 1.00 OF TRISCONY PROMISED Y

D ra

Dro

CLANET TO ES FEE nO. .

NARE TO CO FLING-

PER...

PILE, IR RAN CI alOeS CIRA EI2 ISAG COSO

C TIDI DO

482

SECRET 202245Z JAN 90 CITE

3483

DIRECTOR,

INFO:

GICITRON TECHS

Zu JAM INO 103 1 0

STATION HAS LEARNED OF SPACE BEedING AVAILABLE

IN 61 TRON TARGET BUILDING WHICH SHOULD IMPROVE RECEPTION

AID THEREFORE TAKE CONSIDERABLY.

FOR VARIETY

REASONS BELIEVE

(FOR

FORMERLY

LITAINT 1)

HE SAID HE

HAD ALREADY FORMED ONE FOR TAX PURPOSES IN CONJUNCTION WITH

26|288

CUBAN MANAGER FOR

•IS LONG TIME FRIEND OF

WHO PERFORMED

OPS TASKS FOR RVROCK IN MEXICO AND IS AWARE OF

OPERATIONAL HISTORY.

"RO: IF THERE NO DATA HEADQUARTERS

WHICH

MILITATES AGAINST USING

PPERATIONALLY REQUEST

HEADQUARTERS OBTAIN CLEARANCE OF PRIORITY BASIS TO PROVIDE

ALTHOUGH HE NOTAVO

• BE INVOLVED DIRECILY IN OPERATING: IT MUST BE EXPECTED THAT,

IS. CoPr

SECRET

201-267298

---

## Page 53

TRACTORY NOTES

at.

SECRET

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COFY PHOMIBITEO

0 мо

CLAIREY TO CO FAR NO.

O FLE RE O RETURN TO -

Hated BY.

AE TION LOST

ACTION MA

FILE, VE

PAGE TWO CITE

3483 SECRET

CUBABS BEING CUBANS, HE VILL BE MORE THAN GENERALLY

AWARE OF WHAT IS GOING ON.

ADVISE SOONEST IF ANY HINDRANCE TO USING

MOVE FAST TO SECURE THE SPACE.

3 PLEASE FORWARD PETINENT MATERIALS FROM

201, CRYPTONYM AND 20L NUMBER.

NO: INDEX. FILE

2610

SECRET

_SINCE MUST

*EPORTION CAD - SILEN SERVICED

FIS N6C08

08

7o2307 CrORE

---

## Page 54

14-00000-

9C 9/ 292707.

1

IMES

DFOB:

OCCUPATION:

CITIZECHIF:

BROTHERE

Cuban

PRO PATT I EQNIVALESH

criente, Cuba

---

## Page 55

SECRET

NOTE: SLE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE SIDE TYPE ON PRINT

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TO:

RID/201 Section

Name

Room GA-20 • Jube Address

FROM:

OFFICE

DW -6

# 00м

CATE

PHONE

TYPE.

ACTION

FILE

RESTRICTEO

$.

• PERMANENT

CHARGE

TRUE MAHE

88:88

(Last)

(Pirat)

(Middle)

5- 298 по.

TYPE

(LADe)

• *

BAbE

VARIANTS AND TELECODES (Deo lastructione, ¡tes 8)

(Firet)

(Middle)

TEBE ADDRESS

DATE OF BIRTH

PID. COUNTRY OF

11O. CITY/EDEN OF BIRTH

BID. CATAZENSNIP

12. OCCUPATION (clear 8688)

•"!

ORGANIZATION CA INTELLIGERCE AFFILIATION

15. DOCUMENT SYMBOL & NUMBER

DATE

RESIDENCE

118, COMPLITS (POSt for Indes cardo)

OCC. CODE ID. SWL

88

•I CODE

BB. COUNTRY OF LOCATION

28.

IHFORMATION ADDRESSEES

8*.

CHYPTONTH

PI. SIGNATURE OF REQUE

831 141

8B 8H8

CODE

19. ACTION DESK

CODE

20. SECONDARY DESE

CODE

MAND CARRY OR FORWARD BY TUBE IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE.

29: 80.

19923/11

SECRET

438-91)

Sens

---

## Page 56

14-00000 -

ExT.

3126

TO

RID/ODER

GEQUESTEN

#ID/FILE$

REQUESTEN

RADIANALYSIS

# 10/201

TUBE

Đ9.g

0T.$

6808

D#.€

AIDI INDEN

for.

382027

TUBE 854

IUM: IOM REQUEST

• 1D CONTROL 83.

DATE

INITIALS

1904n 10

CHECKING INSTRUCTIDAS

21-1-201

JAN 21

3 07 PH °70

ALIASES

801'N0.

IF KNOWN

OTHER IDENTIFTING DATA (DeCUpation, CP mabership, 1. 5.

DATE 0F

PLACE OF DIRTH

CITIZENSHIP

HD PERFIDENT IDENTAFABLE INFORMATION

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

CONTIENTS

SARD REFCRINCES ATTACHES

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IT'ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or priat all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw:a green

diagonal line across the

1teus

you do not want.

Bait (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) carde to be destroyed (park with

green D and note reason

for destruction)

Eramples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less Informative then retained in-

formation; information of no (S value.

(b) corrections and additions, Inclu-

ding Infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on

the subject exists.

2. For each document to be ineluded in tbe

consolidation (1.e., copy or cross referense

to be placed in the 201 file),

green " the

corresponding card and check (a) or (b)

below:

(a)

Consolidate Into

201-

(b)

BESTRICTION

Open 201 file on subject.

aay)

Note L. Records of COI, SSU, OSS ard CIG

are in RID,AFD, and those that weet

indering criteria in CSIB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Inder.

I you

belleve there could be ada: local in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

CTRER INTE

TED DESES ON STATIONS

DESE

Tote 2.

Information concerning foreign

public personalitles (esseot mili

tary) ray be avallable ia BR/OCR

167937 .

DATE

SIGRATURE OF RECOROS OFFICER

5 362 y

SECRET

1608.388

---

## Page 57

14-00000

• MEXICO

O•NER AND MANGER OF

/LITHOGRAPH PLE T/:

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY.

IFADER OF

In fuir secur.

Pera 17 Jun 48

171999?9

Di 45700

97 Quk58

Frost CIA

Pos Stato

310603

A-001-0Y

BeeR

T73s

CAPS

FILED IN

S/- 1474

formation

mri!

bler

87100) cantals

this ou

9:310?

---

## Page 58

4-00000;

FFSa

OCCUPATIOI

os

THiS

CAED

FiLEO IN

MAN

INDEX

3::1

• 1".

'= fin moetai itata ('at0s

Pi dll et •t tr?

:?. -e

1.9

315:08

H. N!!

"AD5Y

REF HBB -1000, 12 MAY 68

203/85246101

TYPE NAME-T.i

OCC CODE DIPT

OI CODE

010010061HBBMBROPL

6906111271

061-004-117

OPL

-00808 tоl

09 JUN 60

P 2T

013125

L...-

---

## Page 59

StUssoRs:

2783

AZORES

Tale card filed 1n

MAIT 15422:15 Jan 1954

USA

Jerre.

-X2-Pts-10

FOLdEr H

REFEREN

200

TH'S CADE ED

MAY 1'5.

BACON MAN MINX

SECRETI

---

## Page 60

Herter ef is 50an101 Accom

sas!

5D

.!'

005 7

CIT VENEZUELA

RES! MEXICO

701-005828

TMM:

09 SEP. 52

SER: 167

CIT VENEZUELA

RES: MEXICO

970-004-012

-0275

SER. 2451

701811

tort

SECRET.

---

## Page 61

14-00000

019-009.0008

MEXI-02161

14 AUG 5Ö

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY IN MEXICO.*

913.20

Z2 8-6207

113:22

---

## Page 62

ta-indon

classier to crud 9a.

9-#ET TO

FIRE HO.

PILE BIDD

HET. TO BRANCHD

"CLASSICISE MESSAGE

SECRETI

121

PEAS39

PRIT NOTIFIED

vert to

drive

MEXCO ENL

SRID COPY

WH 8

MILE, VI, 8/S 8, GT/0A5; 58/NT 2

AFTERCE

Dissure Dierre Uranee

9 JUN 650 86780

SECRET 092228Z

DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 3735

PBRUMEN LITAMIL

1.O LITAMIL- SUSMITTED FLUG NAMES IN RESPONSE SPOTTING RQM. (A)

ING. MIGUEL L. PALMER, FORMER CHIEF FERROCARRILES OCCIDENTALES DE

/ CUBA WHO WORKED FOR MANOLO RAY IN SABOTAGING CUBAN RR SYSTEM UNDER

BATISTA (B) LUIS ARGIBAY, BORN C. 1938, CURRENTLY IN TOUCH WITH

CURBELO OF CUBAN EMB IN ATTEMPT OBTAIN EXIT VISAS FOR ARGIBAY:

FAMILY. (C) RAUL VIANELLO GARCIA, FORMER CUBAN CONSUL GENL MEXI.

• 20 REQUEST TRACES ON ALL THREE WHO NOW MEXI. VIANELLO INTENDS PROCEED

U.SO MOMENTARILY TO JOIN FRIEND DR. RODRIGO BUSTAMANTE AT V.A•

HOSPITAL, WOOD, WISCONSIN (SIC• VIANELLO WAS NOT DEBRIEFED BY

LICOMETS. L-3 SUGGESTS USE HIS TRUE NAME (IDEN) AS BONA FIDES

IN EVENT FOLLOWUP ON VIANELLO•

SECRET

CFN

SECKET

FILE iN 201-267298

---

## Page 63

SECRET

(Shra Pilled 1sj

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF OCCUMEST

COCUMENT IDENTIFICATIEN

AN ALT ST

#. DATE PROCESSED

BLE AO.

SPATCH OR

SOURCE DOC.

SYMBOL

ACE CRYPTONYM D- DATE OF INFO.

10.

DISSEMINATED 10

TI. DATE

Te-

DATE

EVALUATION

82-

CROSS REFERDID TO THIS FILE

DOCLUEET

DISPOSITICH

1$.

PERTISEXT INFORMATION

TRANSFERREO TO

RI FILE NO.

WH/SHT

THERE IS-A RESTZ-CIED CI/OS FOLDER ON THE SUBJIC.:

OF THIS 201 HELD UE02a C7

80638

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

$ • 57

867

SECRET

201-262298

18-461

---

## Page 64

DES DRO

CLASSITY TO FILE NO.

I- HEE TO

#SER DO.

FILE HIDD

DESTROY OsIE.

FAOH

MEXICO COY

ACT!ON

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PItAL COPIE

2.

SECRET

FEUCTICE PROTIGITEO

= 1.

•8.0

161

TOME

O RID COPY

SE CRE T 292229Z

• DIR INFO WANT CITE MEX: 37.

ACTION.

FBRUMEN LITANIL

REF

MEXI 3736

(8b7ro)

IDEN:

SECRET

CFN

86782

Get..: ..%

1201-267298

---

## Page 65

14.000004

SUBJECT OF

DOOMENT

SECRET

(Then filled In;

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

EMAL TST

DATE PRECISSED

CROSS REVERED TO THIS

FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR

SOURCE DOC. STMADL

no...

T. SOURCE CRYPTORTED. DATE OF VIE

10. DISSEMINATED

li. DatE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

1₴..

TRANSFEARED TO

RA FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

&, DATE

EVALUATIOS

SEX

CIT.

OCC ?

M

DOB 7

019-005-001

UFGA-21693/14

01 JUN 65

P35

6506161140

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO:

2:01

261

298

807 ••.

SECRET

17. 401

---

## Page 66

TO:

CHIEF, CI/OA

SUBJECI'S DANI (PaDudE.

SECRET

REQUEST• FOR CANCELLATION

FROM:

(Division

H70/3

• (Eatension)

6026

680538

DATE

BEASON 15)

2D 1 10.

201-267298

PLACE OF BIRTH

Orienta, Cuba

PROJECT

AGENT'S SERVICE RECORD

becane margina

÷..

DATE

23 August 1963

IF SUBTE

FORM 937

2-38

#IGNATURE

ICE-CAPACITY, A NEW REQUEST FOR

SECRET

---

## Page 67

•10

DEFO

DISPATCH

Cidefe ira

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARIO REA BIDEXING

ONET QUALIFIED DESE

CAN ROCE INDOUNG

NICEDFILE

Chief of Station, ¿exico City

ACTIOS REQUIREO.

ambumber 1-24-267248

ACTION: FYI

He crenCos: A. 1201 11727

B. HHS 11729

201-202134

Agent Service Record on Subjects are enclosed as requested in the

References.

Attachment:

As stated above

Distribution:

3 = C/MD w/att

3 - Piles

MICROFILMED

AUG 1 6 1963

DOC. MICRO. SER

Traleted ton Bros?

CROSS

ACE -80.

0-891308271

120)

DISPATCH STAROL AND MURDER

DHA 21924

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

DATE

20-267278

9 August 1963

MOS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 68

14-00000

SECRET

AGENT SERVICE RECORD

IP

Lo: Agent Cryptonym: LITAMIL - 1

..2.

Project:

• LITAMIL

3. Agent Recruited By:

Date: 6 Not. 1959

do Capacity In Which Agent Served: Spotter,

..S. Rate of Pay:

penetration 26 July movenente

Into Cuban exilas, Cuban Officials,

Was given $10, 000.00N as a Loan, will Frobabls

•6. Other Cormitments:

pever be repaid.

7 Agent Dismissed By:

recontacted efter

8. Reason for Dismissal

iot dismissed, but not

se parture.

Eecane marginal.

Date:

Al: 151963

9 Security Riska:

lione

10. I8 the Agent Recoumended for Reuse: Yes, depending on circunstances.

11o Manner of Dismissal: No recontact made after

doparture.

12. Letter of Termination Simmed: No

13. Cost of Termination:

14. Station Case Officer:

15. Chief of Station:

(Signature in Pseydonya)

SECRET

to HMALA - 21924

Op.

Copp

201-267298

---

## Page 69

14-00000

i DISTIE FOR INDEXING

Chiel of Btation, Moxico City

PACHE

: Chief, VE Divialon

2455T

PERURN/LITAMIL 1

ACTIN RIQUORLD - DJ ERENCES

¡ CAN ROCE INDOU

Headquarters Iiles reveal no Station contact with LITAUIL1

since October 1962. It 1s requested that the Staties report on

1ts crrrent relationship with LITAill. If this ageat has been

terminated, please subalt an Agent Service Record.

KHD

OF DISPATCH

So wil

Distsibution:

Cal - COs, lexico City

CROSS RETERENCE TO

DISPATCH STARBOL: AND NUMBER

201-267298

DATE

-d1 JUL 1955

matt

ROtPIRRO

INITIAL

OFFICE

SECRET

OFFICER

VH/3/Mexico/

OFTICE S•NEVE

DATE

201-267298

ORIGIKRDING

CLURERTATING

EXT.

5940

OST CERS NAME

REDITS

RELES NO

OFFICE 5 - 550

FOR

1-0J

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

DATE

(40)

DISPATCH

---

## Page 70

DATE

TO

FROM &

ACTION &

INFO

031

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE =

SECRET

17 OCT 62

DIRECTOR

MEXICO. CITY

C/ T7H5

DDP,

ADDP, C/SOD 3, 6/61, C/F1. 2, G/M 5, S/C 2%

ROUTING

Nitrif

Anit

OCT 17 0508Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 40768

C/S COMMENT: •DISSEMINATION APPLICASLE TO RYZAT

CAsLeS..

DIR GUAT INFO WAVE CITE NEXI 2221

GROSE/LITAMIL

RET MEXI 2222

6040773)

1O ON 16 OCT 62, LITAMIL 2 REPORTED STE PRO-UNIDAD "CLANDESTINE UNITE

NIGHT 15 OCT CONPOSED FOL: LITAMIL-I, LITAMiL 2, LITAMIL-3,

LITAMIL-S, HORACIO VISSZESUX GUERRERO, JOSE MANUEL LOPEZ ALFONSO,

TULIO PRIETO RUIZ, FERNANDO OROZCO, AND DRO ALFREDO FERRERO

2. AT NTG LOPEZ TOLD GROUP THAT COL, ENRIQUE PERALTA AZUPDIA,

GUAT MINDEF, WHO CAME MEXI OFFICIAL VISIT SEPT 62, MADE CONTACT

LOPEZ AND OFFERED ARMS, AMMO AND & SLOW VESSELO

PERALTA LONGTIME

FRIEND LOPEZ. LOPEZ SÄID THAT COURIER' PERALTA"ARRIVED NEXT FEW

DAYS AGO AND SAID PERALTA OFFER STILL STANDS BUT THAT DIRECT CONTACT

MUST BE MADE WITH PERALTA GUAT. GROUP CHOSE LITAMIL-2 OR LITAMIL-3

AS MOST LIKELY PUC COURIERS VIËW FORMER'S BUSINESS INTEREST GUAT AND

LATTER'S DIP CONTACIS. ACCORDING LOPEZ CONTACT WITH PERALTA SHOULD

BE MADÉ BEFORE END OCT. PUC PLANS COLLECT FUNDS SEND COURIER GUAT

SOONEST• WILL ADVISE®

LOPEZ DID NOT IDENTISY PERALTA COURIER.

3. 1-21

REPORTED 16 OCT HE GAINING MORE CONFIDENCE WIESZESUK.

DOES GÜAT HAVE ANY INTO RE PARA 2?

ABOVE NOT BEING DISSEMINATED VIEW OPS INTEREST.

(END OF MESSAGE)

1 EXCEUDED FROM AUTO-

SECRET

MATIC COWNGRADING

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION: BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 71

14-00000

DATE

024

7 SEP 62

DIRECTOR

TO

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/TFW 5

INFO : DOP, ADOP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CAH 5, S/C 2"

LASSIFIED MESSAGE ELIMI

ROUTING

SECRET WO

SEP B 02487 62

ROUTINE

Л

17 18812

DIR INFO WAVE SJAN CITE MEXI 1889

GYROSE/AMLAW-I/LITAMIL 1

BIT NO MEXI 1614 (68-46153)

B6 DIR 28483(04763555788

1O ON 5 SEPT 62, AMLAW-I CALLED LITANIL-I AND ARRANGED MTG

APARTMENT

AT 1888 THAT EVENING.

20. AM•I TOLD LOS HE FELT HAD OBLIGATION MAKE CONTACT AS PROMISED

PRIOR DEPARTURE FOR HAVA RE POSSIBLE DISCUSSIONS MEXI, SAID UPON

ARRIVAL HAVA SAW BAUL ROA AND FIDEL CASTRO-FIRST TWO DAYS THEN .

DISCUSSED SUBJ MATTER OF INTEREST LO HE DID NOT SAY WITH WHOM HE

TALKED RE MATTER. AM-S SAID THAT CUBAN GOV'T IN VIEU THREATS AND

AGRESSIVE ACTION INCLUDING SHELLING CUBAN COAST COULD NOT CONSIDER

"TALKS® IN MEXIS ANY "TALKS® WOULD DEPEND ON THE U.SO CLEAR DEMON

STRATIÓN THAT IT REALLY INTERESTED IN "TALKS", THAT IS, THAT

U.S. STOP ITS AGRESSIVE

ACTIONS AND PROVE INTERESTED PEACETUL. APPROACH PROBLEMS. HE ADDED

THAT THEY IN CUBA FELT-THAT "TALKS" MEXI MERELY STALL FOR TIME

Basistad trog El

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-267298

Copy No

---

## Page 72

CLASSIFIEU MESSAGE

SECRET

RGUTING

DATE

TO

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO :

PAGE 2

MEXI 1889 IN 18812

WHILE UOSO PLANNED FURTHER AGRESSION. AM-S THEN TOLD LO1 HE NOT.

ABLE UNDERSTAND DUALITY U.SO FOREIGN POLICY, THAT IS, WHILE L-1 MEXI

TRYING ARRANGE "TALKS" WITH POS. REP OTHER AGENCIES PLANNING AGRESSION

L-1 TOLD AM-1 HE DID NOT KNOW REASON THIS, IF TRUE, BUT SUPPOSED

DIFFERENT GROUPS INTERESTED CERTAIN ASPECS PROBLEM AND THAT

CAUSING DUALITY.

30 AM-1 ASKED LO! WHY HE CONSIDERED VULNERABLE "DEFECTION®.

LO. TOLD HIM THAT ALL EXILES SURPRISED SEE HIM REMAIN WITH REGIME

WHICH • THAY FELT NOT TO HIS TASTE. AM-S SAID THAT WHILE HE HAVA PRESS

RELEASE FROM STOCKHOLM.

REPORTED AM-1 HAD TAKEN ASYLUM.

L"S SAID THAT AM-1 VERY MUCH"ALARMED "SITUATION, CONVINCED

U.SO PLANNING AGGRESSION. TOLD LO1 HE PLANNED BREAK NEHS TO PRESS

RE PLANNED ACRESSION THO OR THREE DAYS. (COMMENTS AM-1 STATEMENTS

APPEARED PRESS MORNING 6 SEPT). DOOR LEFT OPEN™ FURTHER CONTACT

IF FELT CONVENIENT.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYEAT CABLES.

#*RE REGRUITING SUBJ.

Erstadre. 227. laterat

SECSEI

8=937: 7 M

San sinata

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

---

## Page 73

4-00000

:'!

eterno, cina, cino, sie 3a

PO5!

::: 4-830

MI 46ud

CA ESSEROLEO AG SUS DOUDO TARE MIRANOE TARD CURO 8236

NOia 2020G CREDiR do C6%y66299 608 663 9226039

VE SOSTANO BORE CONCRETEO ROCK GODES TIE UPES 28742H

adore Ca

tie carole cader tara

manena son da Ton tant tre

PaD7 Coor musé cade Chuai: 2926206 109. d6 71667

ESRODUCTION SY OCHER DAG TAG SOUG GERGE 165090199

FESTA

---

## Page 74

14-00000

i-e 2

makl iCai.

THTOUCH LOG NENDNOTRNTE EESIRE DTRQUOS ERASCANL SIRUEICS

IDLIVZA AIS ECELO DE RGNDLID LOTKLY CU CLMDESTINE BSSISA

3* ME 2ATE MINLRE ACTION DERDIDS TEURKC NOG UHO FIRS ATTUS:

Q9 1e.

A. ¡NY DOVELODASITO RE "RN TRAaDO CO:IeT 19e!':

hatirse

Ir-iaat

e mat-

0/S Co.eH. •1....779 :99011.7 T1 0017

wSirs.

nresl."oào

fuigtsarie

• luran "irieminiitae"

Lcegdeeed.' ee. 6.0!?e:11%

AahOCUOTION aỤ 6.

ctmEar

---

## Page 75

td-innod "

iroding

-.....:11111

iete iitli

=.15 129 d9 gal Woie E1E

.t"i:11:

inng e5yADisg d00r1a.2211 MoánG Gu7n AR B63 Fag06 H16/ 1991001 10 37653

25r191 70997 71 211 1!

td da TondEt eeRetad

O201 IS 6 P01N COCI I IHADY ALOP LiSCEOAT ET-CS..

male d coe do cortr Cioado doad Galegae Có 4att

Fadey wiei cobmo curo totontrsd cirttdt trddd eodti drrtrd

eadentra nclicedo mao do gaci dad lecided tadd di miid diddesint

2210; 1e2 11e9 d covod cacoy poarhdliy war da toid decien2y 109111701

Mapmiris d8raiai Cerag sies dncta canid siind4e di ilcarjoo ig

un?ae d3t0l0za1d e6 ictene

To 28rrGEd neo teraro 10, csosicriio dix d

-iá tit i?.

ri maccredooe diugidy

rpgririei

icrimi iteiidagesiei

Ili lngecit

,Sa

---

## Page 76

C/TFW/FI

FXT

.: 60 2

DATE

6 Anguat 1962

• CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

535

SEC

RET

_RYBAT

1535

10 .

MEXICO CITY JIMWAVE

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF,

P/TFW

DO :

DDT, ADDR, 6/C1, C/FI 2, G/WH 5, S/C 2

TO

MEXI

RHO

RYBAT GYROSE LITAMIL!

WAVE

CASTILED

nog ESH 45-45

REF: A. MEXI 1614 (IN 40150)

B.. HMMA-19172, 8 JUNE 1962

1$1

POUTING

Fyl

SIE CELL

DENISED

ROUTINE

OUT 83555-

FTú3555

28484 28483

28483

1, SUBJECT REF A ASSIGNED CRYPTONYMN AMLAW-I.

2. CONCUR STATION OPINION REASONS AMLAW -I INTEREST

FURTHER MEETS AND DESIRE FOLLOW UP BY INTRODUCTION KUBARIS

STAFFER AT APPROPRIATE TIME. APPEARSF ROM WHAT WE KNOW OF

A -1 AND INTIMATIONS REF B, HE MORE INTERESTED IN HONEST BROKER

ROLE THAN DEFECTION OR ANY OTHER TYPE ROLE IN PLACE. FEEL

THEREFORE WE SHLD APPROACH HIM WITH THIS IN MIND AND PLAY

HIM FOR INTEL, PREPARED HOWEVER TO PUT HIM ON PAYROLL OR

CATCH HIM IF HE DROPS.

3. ABOVE RAISES PROBLEM OF HANDLING (1) VIS A VIS EMB AND

ODACID AND (2) SELECTION APPROPRIATE STAFFER, 1. E..

SUFFICIENTLY SENIOR SPANISH SPEAKER PREFERABLY, WE ASSUME:

FROM OUTSIDE MEXI, WHO AVAILABLE FOR PERIODIC MEETINGS.

COORDINATING OBEIGERS

ASING OFFICER

CONT.

SECR

ET

BYBAT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

201-267298

---

## Page 77

14:00000.

08163

UNT"

FEXT

DATE :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

- RYBAT

G/TFW/F1

6172

6 Auguar 1962

MEXICO CITY IMWAVE

DIRECTOR

₴

34₴

#OUTING

5

6

8 the 28

1: 053

FROM:

CONE:

INFO :

TO

PACE TWO

INFO

CITE DER

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 63555

28483

WLD HAVE

AVAILABLE THIS PURPOSE IN ABOUT A MONTH.

REQUEST

COMMENTS ON ALL ABOVE, ESP ODACID/EMB ANGLE.

4. MEANWHILE, SUGGEST LITANIL-I RECONTACT A-I PRIOR

LATTER'S DEPARTURE FOR ANOTHER GENERAL TALK ALONG LINES

STATION SUGGESTS WITH ADDED FILLIP THAT HE ABLE GUARANTEE

CHAT WITH ODYOKE OFFICIAL ON A I OSTENSIBLE TERMS AFTER

PBRUMEN TRIP,

5. IF IT TURNS OUT THERE IS MORE BEHIND A -I CALL THAN

WE HAVE READINTO IT, HQS PREPARED AND STATION AUTHORIZED

GO ALL OUT MAKE A DEAL WITH HIM.

(END OF MESSAGE)

Prichweren

TEW/SA

WH3/MEX

COOIDIMATIOG

OFfICERS

CHou

SE C R. ET

-RYBAT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

444M

Copy Na

---

## Page 78

DATE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRETA

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

# AUG 62

DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

C/TFW 5

TEY NOTIFIED & COPY SLOTTED AT

1745, 4 AUG)

DOP, ADOP, C/CI, CAM 5, S/C 2

ROUTING

5

AUE 4 20652 62

PRIORITY

IN 40150-

PRITY DIE INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 1684

RET NEXI 847SLIN32230

CYROSE/LIfAMIL-S/RYBAT

BESEMSIIZED

do. "NIGHT 3 AÜG,

CUBAN AMB MEXI CALLED

LILÂMIL-& AND ASKED HIM WHAT HAD DEVELOPED RE CONTACT PARA & REFO

LOS SAIS US HAD NOT HEARD BUT SUPPOSED CASE STILL UNDER STUDY.

MOVE HIGHLY INTERESTING AS LO! WAS TO HAVE MADE

CONTACT

WHEN NEUS RE CONTACT AVAILABLE.

3e MEXI OPINION L SHOULD CONTACT

SOONEST ORDER EXPAND

DISCUSSION RES AND SEEK COMMON GROUND RE

PERSONAL POSITION•

IN VIEW

SCHEDULED TRIP HAVA 10 AUG REQUEST HAS COMMENTS

SOONEST AS TO THAT LOS HIGHT SAY. STÄTION OPINION

INTERESTED

U.SO CONTACT ORDER DISCUSS CUBAN UOS. RELATIONS OR PERSONAL SITUATION.

END: OF MESSAGE

C/S CONMENT: *LITAMIL 7 TOLD

TALK TO HIM RE PERSONAL MATTER.

THAT: LITAMIL 1 INTERESTED

GROEP 1

SECRETI

astral try satan

#99719, 838

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-267298

Copy Na:

---

## Page 79

14-00000

22 MARCH 2962

DEVORANDUN PORE. CI/OA.

SuJeTy Tranefos of Agent Files to TIN

The following ngent files have been permanently

transferrad to Tri. They will assure all responsibllity

for thoss agonto effectivo this dato. The arca of

operation and dutios for the agerto vill not elange,

thareforo, so PRA Il mandmento will bo subnittod and

the offrotivo elvarencos are valid.

LITANI

LITIHIL 6

C80638

(m(:580

C 85903

C 93632

201-267293

201-274992

201-275058

202-304783

---

