RETURN TO cla,
. Background Use Only
Do Not Rapracuce

Ol
pileeiesity yatin ;
an ly vt SI onan © secrer

Oo unccassteten anains
i ae ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

RID/ARD/DU
GE 58

TO. (Oftcer dougretion, imo member, end
oeaeg!

orncees |

wana, 2 whom, Crew 0 tne eureet calvin eher sort comment)

¥ “/RUO j ce FOR REVIEW OF
7 1 |PROCESSED OUT MATERIAL (POM)

7 aaneateel 7 {The CS Records Comnittee has
linstructed that the attached

!document be reviewed by res-
me ponsible desk personnel. You

Py) ig lare to determine whether the
Uy Lig LT ;document should be retained,
SEeaa__| 13 ‘coordinated or destroyed. Eac
[reviewer is.responsible for
lassuring that documents

ear ard ery rer SEITE —necessary to protect CS opera.
jtions and to assist in the
effective discharge of CS
= t responsibilities are not

destroyed.
Check the appropriate box:
“ra Retain (forward to RID/AN

ith filing, indexing or
T X-referencing instructions

{(] Coordinate (forward to
appropriate desk)

Destroy (have an R. 0.
complete the stamp below
and forward to RID/ARD/DU)

RwWlE DL
Rio Fi

{
'Note: If destruction, cite

tgason:
“i ia 304-1018
nee aaefy 2 ug

Geer yeerne

Tr GO tse" C] secret ) conetoentian CO) TEAL unceassiFieo

on

: 38K


ae

6a

SECRET |

even PLEO OH

AND RECORD SHEET

: ROUTING.
ee Tee os :

See aihet wedar stom 1 the "CU" eehvese Humber sock commaat fo mrermewed with the member be the “TO cole,
Le ecrves fe abrat under ook commeet Enh tect shelf date and label chock malt Uamuitarat! betere Parte Foti
J RS sees STE OL Re cece tow te enece AICAD cece

FROM: RIS PRT OFHASO2ere|
ap Socomenr ore
ROOM bate orneces
ro 10. [eccewee (ronwanono] TUE COMMENTS
w (Kates) NOTE: Il a cory or oftechments are removed trom the at
fyro c. tached dacesnece sew the keetion of the copy andor atech
Wweh neat Bervon, ES AECORD COPY ta fo be eetioed lt
z the five at the Deak, call the Cracial file Section tor por
Basent boon
ta
“ upon - GETAGHED g
= =f

V2

Cp yout b Co forfes

po

te
3
t.
x
w
~S
peeteo Stand i
FILE TITLE - fe
- So4.o& ep \n Fes Aas
orem
wm 2ebs, 2 debs 1987 7
A /;— Fike NUMBER
rs oh |
RIFT
Perey

~

az



ane a 1G

: hea ieteaeeeeen + DISPATCH NO. Loxton:
2Bm2m4,
a e
TO: Gutet, xs Y. pate: __1Y Cetober 105

Info: Chier, £x
FROM: Chie? of Statioi

\
SUBJECT: comnn— [F Eb Yoperntions
RIDE P — Talk between Grigor’ GOLUB sax[Reecur A]

“etion Sequined: None, for inforastion only.

ol

Ola. 3a early ugust 1957, Crigori COWB called on{¥.ccDI:/1\and acked that
(V.come(i| warn him in advance’ 4¢ any Sovict official were atout to be throw
Sut of Fintats as persona non crata, and ld personally see to it that the
man left Sinks: ouietly and Anmodistely Dl W/t says he replied in a stern and
anery manner, “since when does a little diploidt with the low rank of second
Secretary presuzt that he is so powerful as to renove officials of his own country
from Sialsnd? If you are really that powerful, who are you enyway and wnut are your
real duties here in Finland?" This ‘unexpected answer allegedly disturbed CLUB
sufficiently th.t the subject was pursued no further,

2, QLS's cuestion to interesting in view of the

IG operation,
We are trying to Sind out tha exact date of the cenverss

3. GOLWUS has overtly th: functicn of Consul. In that slot he succeede Ivan
Yefimovich S38. 'y & known IIs officer identified by ADIP R/O, VACCINE/Y) OY
also said on 1s Sctober that Ivan St SUKI, also a kno tis Officer Te.g., VNUISHLR
case) will te leaving Finland PCS in the week of 21-27 Cctober 1957, This makes

ths second SIS case officer to leave Minland £3 tn Cctoter 1957, COLE himself

left Finlsnd with his facily in early September. and has not yet come back,

Ivsn VOSO8Y:¥ lef with family on 1 Cctober 1957,

13 Cctober 1957

listributioa:
aE
2

2.

BCL (SASS

toee se gy i cuassinicinos
se, 51-28 cod se RIFLE

wie
