# 104-10218-10033

## Page 1

104-10218-10033

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA LENDQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COLLITTEE OX ASSASSINATIONS STAFF HERBERS

FILE TITLE/NUBER/VOLUME:

KORENGOLD, PUBERT

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NOT REVIEWED BY HSCA.

NO DOCUXENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

927423295051460343

2As0s6 202225

---

## Page 2

:4-00000

wi 79c0.2r

SICZET

54-255057

1 5g0d66

•d isrisoia iei

AEWIGWAG/2

September 1966 Debriefing

Soviet Personalities

". rir

midt.i.

roie tri

eettw +195le

iaaié dditincei pácdcteritioo

s tit wir li

SECRET

AG -295

74-6-636

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET:

Source:

AFMIGEAG/2

Date

acquired: Septerber 1966

Age about 39-35. Not very tall. Rather French

1ooling. Ile is a photographer for Novosti. Source

met him through visitors from Paris Match, whon BARTYVOV

makes a practice of guiding around town. He has never

been stationed abroad but comes out to Paris once in a

while.. The next time he comes he will look up Source.

He speaks very good French, and has a pleasing person-

ality. He is rather outspoken at tines. For instance,

when soneone said "bunch of stupid people" about the

Soviets, "ARTYNOV replied, "You're damn right." He

appears to be terpted by western living. lle concentrates

on the French. lle is married to a nice girl with brown

"hair and eyes. They have children, but Source is not sure

whether one or two.

LT-N 520004"

252772

SECRET

15 SEP 1965

---

## Page 4

SECHEL

Source: AFNIGHAG/2

Date acquired: September 1966

Vladinit ZAKARoV

About 40 years. old, he is the administrator of the

Conservatory, and Source will see him in Paris when he

next goes there. He speaks very good Spanish, having!

formerly been stationed in Buenos Aires as a cultural

attache or sonething. He is probably a KGB officer, but

he works hard at his cover job. During a trip to Paris,

he called Source's father to arrange for the quick rent-

ing of two pianos for the orchestra he was with. He looks

lite a frog and is rather bald, short, blond, with dark

blue eyes. He is very friendly and accommodating, lively,

and nico. He goes out a lot, ard sees a lot of foreign

colony, particularly Argentines

and other Spanish speaking

people. Ile is married and has a little boy called Frilyan.

*... H'e once invited Source to go to his dacha, but she dida't

have tine.

She intends to send hir a postcard with her ncw

address.

SECRET

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 5

14-00000

...

Source: AEWIGHAG/2

Date Acquired: 13 'August 1966

175 701-875493

Valeriy LEDNEY

Works for Sovietskaya Kul'tura. Speaks no foreign

languages. Blond, almost bald. Blue eyes; very nearsighted:

Tears glasses. Roman proffle. A little plump. Tall.. Formerly

stationed in Iran for TASS or Izvestiya. Source thinks un

doubtedly KGB. A big flirt. Chases women. Likes to have a

good time. Knows the KORNGOLDS very well. Expects to come to

Paris for two weeks circa 15 September 1966, where he will con

tact Source, who expects to take him to see some striptease

acts.

CO Comment: Attached are Headquarters traces on Subject.

SECRET

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Valerly Vadinovich LEDHEY

was identifie

• good sourc

In Koscow

who vare suspocted of having been recruitod by the

KGB.

Although we have no record of his being stationed

abroad,

Subject has mado several visits to non-bloc countries.

In June July he visited New Dolhi and Fangkok

In December

1962 he visited lear.

While In Iran he was introduced as

IZVESTIYA's special correspondent.

He corrected the

Individual who was makine the introduction hy saying that he

WAS

an international obsorvor.

Subject risited Turkey in April 1965, chile 18

Ankara he 1s

reported as having particirated in propaganda

tactics" and made an "attempe to feol the pulse of the pablde"

as pare of the soviet efforts at that cine to establiss

closer telations with Turker.

During visits vich various

heads of mass media organs he conmented that while in Iren

he had written "friendly articles" which vere vell received

by the Iranians.

As a rosult he vas the first Soviot

fournalist to be admitted to the oll regions of; Abadan and

Ahvas®

4.

KPONTV is doscribed as tall, baldinx dark hair, high

cheek bones,

#mall

wears Clear plastiC-Tirred Flasses,

scolos font. cigarettes.

Gorain.

naut He speaks English, but speaks better

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 7

SECRET

5X-25502

15 Sept 06.

AEWIGWAG/2

September 1966 Debriefing

New Third National Personalities

15x-25502

76 295 is

15 Sette 16 biling

Cos biting a 7 1026

74-6÷636

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 8

79 1.".

SECRET

Source: AÈNIGWAG/2

Date acquired: September 1966

Onar"OUSSEDIX, Algerian Ambassador

He came to Moscow after the fall of Ben Bella.

• He .

* is intelligent, but rather pro-Soviet. He was very active

in the FLN. lle and his wife are both Kabyles, a non-Arab

tribe.

lis

÷2.

SECRET

15: SEP 1966

---

## Page 9

÷113

SEur-i

Source: AENIGEAG/2

Date acquired: September 1966

Frank " SOURGIOLTZER, American NBC Correspondent, i962-?

is; After this tour in Moscor, BOURG!OLTZER returned to i

Moscow without his wife, lived in a hotel, and went around

with a lot of Soviet girls.

SECRET

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 10

SECRET -

Source: ADRIGNAG/ 2

Date acquired: September 1966

'es.

Jose Antonio MENDIA,

Counscllor (Cultural and Pross)

Argentine Enbassy

He was chief correspondent of La Prensa in Paris

and married a Frenchwonan. Source thinks he is a likely

target of the KGB because he needs a lot of moncy. This

is because his wife is very snohbish and ambitious and

insists on buying quantities of expensive clothes.

MENDIA thin's he is shrewd, but he is not.

• 15. 1.

in so to sca

SECRET

15 SEP 1966.

---

## Page 11

1d-0d0d

SEGRET

Source: AEWIGNAG/2

Date acquired: September 1966

J.A.L. MORGAN, Ist Secretary, British Embassy

He had an affair with the ballerina PLISETSKAYA

eight or nine years ago, while previously stationed in

Moscow, and was kicked out of Moscow for it. However,

he is now married, apparently happily, and has three

children. He is a very bright and charming man who

speaks Mongolian aid Chirese. He is a cultural officer,

but since these languages are rare anong cultural offi

cers, Source assumes that he is M1-6.

SECRET

15 SEP 1400 _

---

## Page 12

night are

SECRET

poma

Source: AEMIGYAG/?

Date acquired: Septenber 1966

Huy KANTHOUl, Carbodia Ambassador

Very anti-Arerican regarding the war in Viet lam.

but doesn't like the Chinese. He hopes the Soviets will

'step up aid to Canbodia.

Partn

2449120-725

SECREL

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 13

•?;:

Source: AEWIGWAG/ 2

Date acquired: Septenber 1966

...

Catherine BARSACQ,, Secretary Archivist, French Embassy

-...She is young and speaks Russian well. She is the

daughter of the well-known French theatrical producer

(?) Andre BARSACO. She works in the cultural office of

the Embassy. She goes out with Soviet men, one of them

Andre VOLKOYSHY, the well-known pianist.

C.O. Connent: VOLKONSKY, as a teen-age boy, came

to the USSR after forld lar II with his father, who re-

patriated voluntarily from France.

•e, presidencies

value tuitiii.

"i.

SECRET

2.95

75 SEP 1966

---

## Page 14

SECRET

Source: AENIGMAG/ 2

Date acquired: Septenber 1966

Marina" LOPOUKIINE, Secretary Archivist, French Embassy

This girl comes from a proninent family in imperial

Pussia, now in the emigration in France. She resigned

to marry a Soviet (NU) who, is a translator for the !los-

cow News.

She will stay in the USSf., but will retain

her French passport.

SECRET

15 SEP. 1966

---

## Page 15

SECREI

Source: ARHIGWAG/2

Date acquired: September 1966

ioN PIOLET, Agence France Prosse

This is a very nice bachelor, who recently arrived

in Moscor. Source warned his against taking on Jean

RAFAELLI's Soviet girl-friend Olga Lnu, which he has not

done. He has a girl friend, Gerda Lnu, who works as a

secretary at the l'est German Embassy. Source has abso-

lutely nothing against this girl, but she refugeed out

to Nest Gerrany from East Gernany and still has relatives

there. She is unmarried, attractive, and goes out with

a lot of Americans (unspecified).

SECRET

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 16

.u..

Source: AEKIGHAG/?

Date acquired: September 1966

GeOrgeS PORTOLE, Representarive of Radiadiffusion Tele-

vision Francaise (ORTF)

His wifc is an emigre Russian who thinks everything;

is wonderful in the USSR and wrote an article to this ef-

fect in Paris latch, praising the wonderful Moscow markets.

BORTOLI is under his wife's influence, but Source does not

know his politics. (Source obviously was concealing some,-

thing she knew about BORTOLI, as she sometimes does about

the French).

We fire.

'ліді?

c.

SECRET

29/15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 17

SECRET

Source: AEWICKAG/ 2

Date acquired: September 1966

+1791-135368

Igor FITSINOS, Correspondent for Der Siegel (Kest Gernany)

His wife is a Soviet citizen, Jewish. He is a Gernan

citizen, but of Latvian or Russian origin. They have been

in the USSR a long time.

Source thinks his wife has been

allowed out.

She doesn't know their political views.

SECRET

1,5 SEP 1966

---

## Page 18

SECRETA

Source: AE!'IGVAG/2.

Date acquired:

September 1966

George D.

"YARSAY, Greek: Anbassador

Looks like a peanut vendor. His wife is always

covered with vulgar jewelry, and she looks like a mani-

curist. lle endulges in a great deal of commercial oper-

ations (personal) buying and selling rugs, icons, etc.

маРсе•итеісардіалуип

...

sister.

SECRET

315 SEP 1966

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

Source: AEWIGWAG/2

Date acquired:

September 1966

Dimitri S.

SAVOLATOS, First Secretary, Greek Embassy 1963-?

MANOLATOS conducted an extensive trade in icons and

rugs, far above the norm even for Grecks in Moscow.

" He

a are me to nig done in

SECRET

55 15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SEGRET

Source: AENIGNAG/?

Date acquired: Septenber. 1966

Ahman 8221 - 766698

NIRFENDERESTI, Iranian Ambassador

He is a very interesting character. His grandfather

was Ambassador to Russia

before the revolution, and he

speaks extremely good Russian. He is a very sharp man

who knows a lot of Soviets, and has excellent rapport

with them because of his language and open marner. In his

diplomatic pose, he doesn't seem to be anti-soviet, but

Sourco does not know his true feelings on that score..

is not anti-American, although he sonetimes considers some

American actions stupid. He is married, but his wife is

often out of Moscow. He is able to stand a lot of liquor.

C.O. comnent: AEPASSIVE stated that the Ambassador had

sone of his primary education in Pussia and confirmed his

expertise in the language and knowledgeability, but stated

definitely that the ambassador is 100% anti-Soviet.

1404135

SECRET

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 21

he telet tie

SECRET

Source: AENIGWAG/Z

Date acquired: Septenber 1966

+8-381-868224

Giovanni

MIGLIUOLO, Counselor, Italian Embassy

Married to a Czech. They both speak fluent Russiap.

English, German, French, and Italian. He married his

wife while stationed in Prague. He is a very bright, in-

telligent man, whom Source regards as an intelligence of-

ficer. He

is tremendously interested in politics, and is

a Kremlinologist. Source does not know his attitude toward ?

the Soviets.

115 SEP 1956

SECRET

---

## Page 22

1d-0d0d

SECRET:

Source: AEKIGLAG/2

Date acquired: Septenber 196:

Dino CAPFLLO, Italian Counsellor (Commercial)

., He is from Sicily and is a member of the lafia.

•.*

SECRET

20m 1:5 SEP 1966

---

## Page 23

SEORE

Source:

AERIGSAG/2

Date acquired:

September 1966

react ada

N LUCCAN, Enu

A correspondent for an Italian paper, age about 82,

who lives in Source's building. (Not listed Information

Moscow). lle has been in loscow for at least ten years'

and is married to a Soviet woman. They have to children."

His Soviet wife has a miserable life and never leaves the

apartment. He is always out, hanging around the Hotel

National bar, trying to make friends with businessmen and

journalists. He is a crashing, insensitive, boor and bore.

'He drinks a lot and probably'goes out with girls. He comes

to a lot of cocktail parties without an invitation, always

without his wife, whon Source has never seen. Ile has another

wife in Italy, which causes him scrious financial problens;

but in spite of this he has a very expensive apartment. l'e

speaks Russian, French, and English, and occasionally majes

anti-Soviet remarks. Source is certain he is à KGB agent :

because of his Soviet wife, his need for moncy, his emen-

sive apartrent, and the way he operates in trying to nake

contacts and crash parties.

SECRET

1 5 SEP 1966

---

## Page 24

14-000

SEGRET?

Source: AEMIG'AG/2

Date acquired: Septenber 1966

Kanare

29701-271372

TAKAJASHI, business representative of International

• (Japanese firm)

* This man is about 55 and lived in China for a long

time. He married a thite Russian girl fron Harbin. They

left Shanghai in 1951, which Source considers strange, i.e.

it would have been normal for then to leave in 1949 when

the Conmunists took over. They have a son in the United

States who is married, and possibly a daughter there as

well. They have another daughter, unmarried, Svetlana

TAKAHASHI, who lives in Japan. Source met her by chance

at Orly airport and also in Moscow. She is a beautiful

&irl, half Japanese and half Russian. She speaks good

Russian, as does her father. Her mother, TAKAlASHI'S

wife, is in Japan. TAKAlASIlI also speaks Chinese and

poor English. He has a lot of Soviet contacts. Source

thinks he is probably sonebody's agent, theirs or ours,

probably ours and/or the Japanese. A curious and inter:

esting man.

SECRET

1.5 SEP 1966

---

## Page 25

SECRET

Source: ACMIGKAG/ 2

Date acquired:' September 1966

Edward CHORRA, Lebanese Ambassador, 1960-63

GHORKA's wife was an Anerican nho had an antique

shop

in Yew York City. The two of them made a great

deal of money in a three-way antique business, Moscow-

Lebanon-New York, using their diplonatic privileges.

' is

', d

it is,

SECRET

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 26

1d-0d0d

SECRET

Source: AEWIGKAG/2

Date acquired: September 1966

Ilassine* EL GIOUYEL, Tunisian Counsellor

Drinks a tremendous lot. Source saw him dead drunk

at the British Club. lie stayed at the Ukraina Hotel with-

out his family for a while. The police took his car keys

away so he couldn't drive in a drunken condition. He is

a very weak man.

racers de

SECRET

5 SEP 1960

---

## Page 27

SECRET?

SOurCe: ACHIGWAG/2

Date acquired:.

September 1966

Yusuf Abd-al-Azi, 2A 701-14.0017

SIURARA, First Secretary, UAR Embassy

He has a very good looking wife, for which reason

he is always invited out in ambassadorial circles, which

he normally would not be in. Source instinctively thinks

he is an intelligence officer, without being able to say

why.

SECRET

:95 SEP 1966

---

## Page 28

CANADIAN

Mr. Robert A. DU FORD

Position (Jan 65): Ambassador, Canadian Embassy, Moscow, USSR

Closest English speaking friend of SOURCE in Moscow.. Anti

Gaullist in outlook but otherwise quite "French-friendlỳ." Is

a cripple but often tries to take a few steps on the dance floor.

Suffers from Polio. Former university professor in Canada

(medieval history) before becoming diplonat. Wife is the most

charming ambassador's wife in Moscow. She was introduced to FORD

by the former Brazilian ambassador to Moscow (currently the

Brazilian foreign minister) when the latter served at the UN in

New York

as a member of Brazil's delegation. The Fords are very

much in love with each other and aré a fine couple. Mrs. Ford

Is the best dressed, most cultured woman in town, also has the

best Jewels. Her name is Terese. Both speak good Russian and he

1s probably one of the most competent ambassadors in the Soviet

Union. Mrs. Ford is a particularly close friend of the Israel

ambassador Mr. ТЕКОАН.

SaM,

DATE ACQUIRED: September 1966.

He is very pro-American.

15. SEP 1966

---

## Page 29

air!

- 1.

AEWIGWAG/2

August 1966

MUGBOOK Debriefing

SECRET

7.4-6-6545

115 5t7 1966

---

## Page 30

14-00000

SEC: 574

Source: AEWIGWAG/2

Date Acquired: 13 August 1966

war!

MUGBOOK Debriefing

O. Comment: The following information is the result of a

hurried debriefing which lasted one hour only.

Previously identified by Source, not yet in new book.

#]:

(SAMOYLOV, Nikolal A.)

Nothing to add. Has not seen in a long time.

#2

(ZARUBINA, Zoya V.)

Has sonething to do with the press or Inturist.

Speaks French.

#3

(TOCHILIN, Sergef)

Has seen, but renembers nothing.

#4

(MEDVEDEV, Vladimir A.)

Source remembers this ma., because he is a dead

ringer for Kosygin. The picture is a good like-

ness, although he now has somewhat less bair.

He

is about 55, is dark and of medium height.

# 5

(KHARLANOV, Mikhail A.)

This is a good likeness. He is of medium height,

with a "typical Soviet figure." Nothing more

remembered.

SECRET

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SECRET

#6

(SHIBAYEV, Pyotr A.)

Sourco does not remember seeing this man.

#7

(KOBYSH, Vitally)

Source has not seen this man.

#8

(NOSENKO, Yurts. A.)

Source has never seen this man, nor #192 in

regular lugbook.

#9

(VLADYKIN, Nikolat A.)

Source had difficulty identifying this picture.

Said she hardly knows this man.

New Mugbook: Previously identified by Source

#13 and #60

(SUNTSOY, Aleksel V.)

Source bas never seen this man.

#25

#27

#32

#34

(PETROV, Vladinir I.) •

Source has never seen this man.

(SHUBNYAKOV, Pyodor G.)

The picture looks familiar to Source, but she can

state nothing about the man.

(SUNSKOY, Mikhail H.)

Source has never seen this man.

(SECHERBAK, Fyodor A.)

Source definitely bas seen this man, but can say

nothing about him, other than that he is about

fifty, stout, upper medium height, and she saw him

at the 14th July French reception, 1966.

SECKET

1§ SEP 19601

---

## Page 32

14-0000

= 3.

#37

(FEDYANIN, Vladimir P.)

Source does not recognize this man.

#40, 93, 138, 172 (PANASENKO, Ivan A.)

#40:

Source thinks this man has something to do

with the military; she has seen him with

nilitary

# 49

# 72

#97

attaches.

#93: No recognition.

#138: This man is from the Ministry of Foreign

Affairs, speaks a lot of languages, including

English and French. He is a good-looking, charming

man, about 38-40 years old, 178 cm. tall, well

built. She saw him at the 14th July French recep-

tion, 1966.

(SUNTSOV, Aleksandr V.) .

Source did not recognize this picture.

(KURILENKO, Ivan P.)

At first Source did not recognize this picture.

She

later said she had seen him during the de Gaulle

visit. and at various national day parties

(DITYATYEV, Dmitriy A.)

Source did not recognize, this picture.

SECRET

$ 5. SEP 1966

---

## Page 33

14-00000 ,

#101

#106

#122

#163

#192

(GLAZUNOV, Ilya S.) u

Source recognized this picture by name. GLAZUNOV

is about 35; the picture is a good likeness but:

makes him look too bealthy. He looks like an

"uncooked spaghetti," pale complexion, thin, short.

He speaks Italian. Source considers GLAZUNOV not

Intelligent, and entirely too eager to mix.with

foreigners. Source sent the Canadian, Benoit de

Margerie, to GLAZUNOV when the Canadian was interested

In having his portrait painted. GLAZUNOV's wife (NU)

Is about thirty, has long dark hair; is very

Intelligent.

(SEVARTS, Ilya P.)

Source did not recognize this picture.

(FILIPPOV, GrIgorly A.)

Source did not recognize this picture.

(GUK, Yurty I. )

Source stated she may possibly, have seen this man

• long time ago at a diplomatic party.

(NOSENKO, Turly 1.)

Source did not recognize this picture, nor #8 in

Section I.

SBC237

!.5 SEP 1960

---

## Page 34

III

New Mugbook;

new identifications.

# 5

(FEDYANIN, Vladimir P.)

Source has seen this man but could not remember

anything about him.

#20 and #76 (ALYOSHIN, Yevgenty N.)

Source thought these tro pictures might be of her

husband's "friend", meaning the case officer who

keeps dogging him, turning up at the next seat in

the theatre, etc. She said she would check with

her husband as to this man's name, and ask him for

details. She said she already discussed this

"friend" during the last debriefing. He poses as

# history professor.

#39 and #63 (ZHUKOV, Georgly A.)

Source identified this picture as that of Yurly

ZHUKOV, either TASS or MA press department man.

She last saw him at the farewell party for Source

and her husband at their embassy. She could not

i remember anything else about him, but promised to

ask her husband, who, she knows, hates him for some

reason.

# 61

(ZAITSEV, LeV N.)

Source identified this picture as that of a Novosti

man, or at least a journalist., He is about 35,

tallish, good looking. Speaks French.. Has been

abroad. Deals with foreign journalists.

SECAZT

2353821932V9

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 35

#125

52c18

-6-

(LOUIS, Viktor)

Source identified this picture as Viktor LoUIS.

There was no time to update her previous informa-

tion.

She made the remark that she was sorry to

.

see him in such sorry company, meaning in the

Hugbook.

Amann,

- i:

SECRET

115 SEP 1966

---

## Page 36

ta-tation

Source: AEWIGWAG/2

Date Acquired: 13 August 1966

Tatyana PHILIPOV or PHILIPOVA

Has an American passport.

She was employed by Waldemar

VICHNEVSKY, AFP correspondent in Moscow, as a governess for his

children. Source claims Subject was a bad children's nurse and''

very stupid. VICHNEVSKY wanted to fire her. She always goes

around with Soviet men. She went off for a three day weekend

and was gone for eight days. VICHNEVSKY reported this dis-

appearance to the French Embassy.

SECRET

715 SEP 1966

---

## Page 37

SICiLT

л'asi...

AEWIGNAG/2

1965 and 1966 Debriefings

U.s. Citizens in Moscow

thit

aia di -te

sx-48i6 (65) 74-6-63013

SECRET

H60(66)

1 5 SEP 1900

---

## Page 38

SOURCE

• AEWIGWAG-2

DATE ACQUIRED : September 1966

American Intelligence Officers in Moscow

including the Americans.

or an ourcene do re our it one at datal

Source said she and her husband had wondered about which

Americans were intelligence officers and had come to the

conclusion that the following Americans were:

Roger Kirk

Alan Logan

Abraham Katz

Their reasons for picking Logan and Katz are contained in the

Individual reports on these two gentlemen.

19 SEP 1966

---

## Page 39

14-000

SELET

NEW YORK TIMES

Mr. Peter GROSE

Position (July 1965):

Chief, New York Timus Bureau in Moscow,

USSR

Appears to be a very intelligeat chap, new

on the scene

1n Мозсон.

Getting married to a 19 year old girl.

He is Jewish.

DATE ACQUIRED : September 1966.

He married an American girl who appears to be of good family.

She is expecting a child and has been very sick during her

pregnancy,

occasional

so they both stayed home.

Normally they give

cocktail parties with a lot of Soviets present.

only Soviet friend of theirs that Source knows about is (Fnu)

Shnirson, a music critic.

They are friendly with the Loorys

(NY Herald Tribune) and Hughes Rudd (CBS) .

The

1.5 SEP 1966

---

## Page 40

WIFE MAGAZINE

Mr. Robert BRIGHAN

Position (Jan 65::

Correspondent fOr LIFE MAGAZINE In Loscow,

USSR

No Comments - SOURCE only knows biü slightly:

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 41

BALTILORE SUN

Mr. Adam CLAJER

Position (JAY 65) :

Correspondent for BALTIlORE SUN 10 Moscow,

USSR

Called "head of the calf" (French expressIOn) because he:

accident-prone.

Bindi gita

S

5 SEP 1966

---

## Page 42

: E!

•ET

: UNITED PRESS INTERATIONAL

Mr. Nicholas DANILOFF

Position (Jan G5):

Member, UNITED. PRESS I:TERNATIONAL Burcau 1n

Noscow, USSE

Very nice,

Intelligent man.

Not Jewish.

Overworked by

SHAPIRO, who tenda not to like hi.

Very sick when he left

Noscow (ca. March/April 65) •

Sar a good many Russians and

to be woll informed.

lins good promise as & Journalist.

"Te lore to Kong 2s

tre "go"

-agitto,

SEGRETA

15 SEP 1966 :

---

## Page 43

1d-0d0d

SECRETS

NEW YORK TIMES

Kr. Henry TAYNER

Position (Jan 65): Chief, Hen fork Times Bureau in loscon, USSR

Poggy Tanner, secrotary-archivist In the Danish embassy, 18

TASTER'& 1i10.

Torribly intelligent and good-hearted.indivtdual.

Both SCURCE and SOURCE's husband like them a lot.

Renariablo

thing about TAMER 1s that he never rets nad and 1s always

salling, even when thing are bost trying.

Appears to be a very

Rood, happy marriage.

Both are first class people.

Neither 1g

Jewish.

Transierred to Paris in the late spring of 1965.

iris siberiano diete

15 SEP 1966

.:

'sitara?

---

## Page 44

1d-0d0d

.

NEW YORK TIMES

Mr. Theodore SHABAD

Position (Jan 65): Member, New York Times. Bureau in Moscow, USSR

Most Jewish

type of Jew in the entire Moscow press corps

(exactly

what SOURCE means by this hard to pind down . but would

appear she means he keeps

not mix with others.)

Lives in the same entryway as

to his own co-religionists' couRce.

and does

Did not like TAYSER

(Bureau Chief) and TAVVER felt the same

about him. Has a stupid

way

wife who talks too much at parties.

DATE ACQUIRED :: September 1966.

Shabad's wife had a nervous breakdown and left Moscow.

At. How to be a Jewise Mother

SECRET

-1. 5. SEP 1966

---

## Page 45

helpitte

USITED STATES

America House Club

et,y

4562 461419

SOURCE comments this is littlo more than a brothel where

the lower echelons of the foreigo diplomatic colony arrange

trysts. There is a great deal of passing whiskey and cigaretts'

here, particularly among the forelgn service personnel (malds,

etc) of members'of' the diplonatic corps. At least within the

french embassy the general feeling is that ose should stay away

from the place, 'since no diplomats of status go there, except

on rare occasions (an especially good film). The enlisted

Averican military personnel are known to use the facilitles of

the club to shack up with foreigners.

DATE ACQUIRED: SEPTEMBER 1966

The tone of the Club has improved greatly owing to security

neasures which have been introduced in controlling the people

who may enter. It has nor become chic and even ambassadors go

there.

SECRET

15. SEP 1966

---

## Page 46

HET

UNITED STATES

Mr. Marshall BREIENT

Position (Jan 65):

Second secretory, US Embassy in Moscow,

USSR

SOURCE speculates B. may be an intelligence officer because

of the penetrating questions he asks. Also be appears to be !.

far better informed than the run-of-the-mill American foreigo

service officer.

Has a good memory and speaks some Chinese.

Wife is socially cautious.

DATE ACQUIRED: SEPTEMBER 1966

He drinks and flirts. His wife is very jealous. • He loves

girls but Source does not think he goes around with Soviet girls.

'at"

SECRET.

15 SEP 1960

---

## Page 47

14-00000

Folkey

UNITED STATES

" Mr. Abraham KATZ

Position (Jan 65): First secretary, US Embassy, Moscow, USSR

SOURCE and her husband see more: of KATZ and his wife at

than almost any other Americans of the US embassy. He is quite!

sharp and intelligent and SOURCE's husband has a high professional

regard for him.

DATE ACQUIRED: ' SEPTENBER 1966

Source's husband thinks he is an intelligence officer because

of his position' in the Embassy.

rattles nit fore

SECRET.

95 SEP 1900

---

## Page 48

**..

• groin i

NEWSWEEK

Mr. Robert KORENCOLD

Position (Jan 66):

Correspondent for NEWSWEEK Maganine in Moscow,

USSR

SOURCE and SOURCE's husband like the K's a lot, they are

clever people and both well informed.

Has good Soviet contacts:

and digs out the news through them.

Both speak good Russian.

He goes by the name of "Bud".

Both are Jewish.

DATE ACQUIRED:

SEPTEMBER 1966

Nife is French and would be a very good source for infor-

mation on the nefarious activities of third nationals in Moscow.

She is not Jewish as previously stated.

ЛАга сАуа силії,

15: SEP 1966

---

## Page 49

+ 499477539102064900-99t

Se:

UNITED STATES

Mr. Alan LOGAN

Position (Jan 05): Second secretary, US embassy, Moscow, USSR

A too serious type, wife never smiles. Very impressed with

his position in the embassy' - a "beavy" person. Both drink a

good deal and only after they've had a few drinks do they let

it' their hair down.' His wife is French.

SOURCE sees them at a

number of Anerican and British partles. Frequently present at

African parties, since he is embassy officer responsible for

African affairs. Wife is a bure.

DATE ACQUIRED:

SEPTEMBER 1966

Source and her husband think LOGAN is an intelligence

officer because the Soviets are very interested in him and

publicized hin as a spy for his interests in Africans in

Moscow. After this article, the Africans stopped seeing

LOGAN.

He was very well liked however.

Tarsal wit

21920040

SECRET

* 15 SEP 19661

---

## Page 50

11921054=51

4494*

SECRET

NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE

Mr.. Stuart H. LOORY

Position (Jan 65):

Chief New

York Herald Tribune Bureau in

in Moscow, USSR

Both LOORY and his wife are Jewish.

SOURCE considers

them nice but does not see a very great deal of them socially.

DATE ACQUIRED: 'SEPTEMBER 1966

Has problens with his job because of the closing down of

the New York Herald Tribune.

Posites,

accord dogfe bosse

SECRET

71: 5. SEP 1966

---

## Page 51

4-0000

SECRET

UNITED STATES

Mr.. Roger A. PROVENCHER

Position. (Jan 65);

Second secretary, US embassy in Moscow, USSR

They are the most socially adept members of the US embassy.

Trey entertain well and their parties are fun. They both dance

well. She serves wonderful buffets. She is French. Has visited

SOURCE'& father in Paris on one occasion. • SOURCE has had the

Provenchers to her apartment about 15 times (since Oct 62). SOURCE

speculates Provencher may be an intelligence officer based on

the fact that he bas "too good" an apartment for his rank and

more care is taken of him than of Mr. Logan in the political

section.

DATE ACQUIRED: SEPTEMBER 1966

Source says her husband has changed his mind about PROVEYCHER'S

being an intelligence officer. Possibly he. is one, but not in

it Moscow.

SECRET

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 52

WASHINGTON POST

Mr. Stephen ROSENFELD

Position (Jan 65):

•Correspondent, WASHINGTON POST (USA) in Moscow,

÷."

USSR

Noted for fact that he has a very large apartment by Moscow

standards. Wife knows what she wants and gets it from the U2DK

by constant badgering of this office. Lives in same block with

SOURCE but entryway three. Wife was in Moscow before as a single

girl correspondent. They both speak very good Russian. Both

are Jewish.

DATE ACQUIRED: • SEPTEMRER 1966

• Source heard no comments from the Sovicts about ROSENFELD'S

PNG for the Washington Post publication of the Penkovskiy Papers

Third National Colonies also had no comments but were very sorry

for ROSENFELD.

SECRET.

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 53

SECRET

UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL * (UPI)

Mr: Henry SHAPIRO

Position (Jan'65):

Chief, UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL Bureau 10

Moscow, USSR

SOURCE and SOURCE's husband like S. He is Jewish, sharp

and quick, speaks excellen't Russian. Knows a tremendous amount

about Russiap, very well informed. SOURCE speculates SHAPIRO

may have helped the Russians in the past (she means the RIS)

but does not think he has to now that he has established himself.

SOURCE comments that SHAPIRO, like all Western press people have

:?.

to be extremely careful what they file, otherwise they will be

• thrown out of the SU. This is very true in SHAPIRO's case, since

he married to Soviet national who might not be able to leave with

him 1f he were thrown out. Host noteable thing about SHAPIRO

is his very extensive contacts in the dip circuit - Henry Iiterally

-knows everybody worth knowing. On very good terms with past US

ambassador (Thoapson). Probably because of religious bonds, he

is also on very good terms with current Israeli ambassador.

DATE ACQUIRED: September 1966.

Shapiro hates to spend money.

He is very hard on his assistants,

and very quick-tempered.

He hates Edmund Stevens and his wife.

He is close to the Austrian ambassador (Walter Wodak), the Italian

ambassador (Federico Sensi) and the Norwegian ambassador (Frithjof

Jacobsen) •

Recently Shapiro decided to do a story on the prostitutes

who hang

out at the Hotel National.

He sent someore to interview'

some of these girls. As a result he was attacked in Pravda.

¿Shapiro was terribly upset at this, almost crying. He is normally

• very careful man.

He knows at the

and possibly cooperates with them... Soviet journalists well,

15 SÉP 1966

---

## Page 54

14-00000

NEWSDAY

Mr. Edaund STEVEYS

Position (Jan 65):

Correspondent for NEWSDAY (USA) in Moscow,

USSR

Neither SOURCE nor SOURCE's husband Ilke. Drinks a iot,

especially early in the morning - often drunk, and when so tends

to make stupid remarks. However, terribly well informed about

what is going on in the Soviet Union, In fact one of the best

informed Western correspondents in Moscow. He has a find collection

of modern paintings. SOURCE believes he probably works for the

KGB. SInce he openly Involved In black marketing, selling of

tkons, and always seems to have more than enough money. He is

the type who would sell his sould for cash. Daughter now in Rome,|

trying to become a movie actress.

She was formerly a student

at the Bolshol Theater, studying ballet. She was sonething

of a whore and slept with a number of Russians.

a did no gene

15 SEP 1966.

---

## Page 55

Edmund Stevens

Date Acquired: September 1966

STEVENS' wife told Peter GROSE of the New York Times that

she wasbuying up paintings from Soviet artists and reselling

them for a profit. Source considers Mirs. STEVENS a real bitch.

STEVENS argues with her a lot.. Source thinks he is no longer

capable of having a sex iife. Source has no doubts that he

works. for the KGB.

STEVENS' contacts in the foreign colony are extensive.

He

sees most of the important ambassadors, including KOHLER (US) ,

HARRISON (UK), and SENSI (Italy). Among the many Americans he

SEES are GUTHRIE and ARMITAGE.

The only Soviet contacts of the STEVENS whom Source knows

are figures from the artistic world: musicians MOISSEYEV and

KAGAN, and the ballerina PLISETSKAYA.

SECRET

205 SEP 1966

---

## Page 56

'"i"

SECRET

UNITED STATES

US EMBASSY L'OSCOW

sissistani

General Corments:

k.. omity

Embassy officers all belleve they are very

Important peoplo by virtue of tho fact that the Dopartment sent

then to loscon to represent the States. They try to impress

everybody with their position and with their knowledge of Soviet

alfairs (wilch do not too good la the tirat place), They tonal

to 11vo 8 Betto-l1k0 existence, do not ais uith other members of

the dip set.

Stay at home or in the embassy and do not get out

around in the city. From a social point of view they are for

the most part boring - only wish to talk business and office

politics. No lightness of sense for "things gay." Heavy. Do

not have many of the social graces, do not dance well, do not

play carda 70ll, etc. Vives are poo, dressers and can not cool.

•'it"s risis deemed a to die de disres

Fuctoiin"

SECRET

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 57

UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL. (UPI)

Position (Jan 65): Member, UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL BureaU,

1n lioscow, USSR

"Jay" 1s stupid, more so than average pross correspondents.

Not Intellectually quick.

SHAPIRO runs rings around him.

Aripura."

-arring

Mattres

i':?

1..

run: danceriateorge

7795.94

SECRET

is liste

3 8 5: SEP 1966

---

## Page 58

SECKET

==

Capt. Janes N. BIZZEL, L'SAP

PositIon (Jan 63): Assistant air attache (medical), US Inbisay,

SOURCE ta very fond of Dr. Bizzoll and considers bir an

excellent doctor, especially for children. Nuch more friendly

than this prodocessor. SOUNCB gave Dr. Bizzell the name of her

sister (UNSOX 10) and suggested he look her sister up when he

went to Paris on vacation. The sister would show hin around

Paris.

SOURCE does not know whether Dr. Rizzell contacted her

sister,, Hrs. Kohler 1s very fond of him. Rizzall used to squire

young Niss. Stoessel around town. Dances well; plays good bridge.

•:..

SECRET

15 SEP. 1966

---

## Page 59

te desk

=..

EFT.

ASSOCIATED PRESS| (AP)

Nr. Henry 8. BRADSIER

Position (Jan 65):

Chief of the ASSOCIATED PRESS Bureau, loscow,

USSR

SOURCE and SOURCE's husband do not 11ke B: Consider him

rudo, barbarian. 'Ie is a yory nervous nan. Tries very hard

(but does not make the grade) to keep up with chief AFP man

(WISAN) and chief UPI man (SHAPINO).

- 155.

SECRET

A2 15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 60

SECRET:

AMERICAN BROADCASTING COMPANY

"Mr. Sam JAFFE

AMERICAN BROADCASTING COSPANT

Ban and June are attractive people and SOURCE would 1ike| to

bocone more friendly with them. However, neither SOURCE sor her

husband trusts the JAFFES completoly - in thelr view something

about then does not add up. JAFFE good newspaper man - knows how

to ask questions that will got news. SOURCE feela she has to

watch what she says to JAFFE, lest he uncover some of her. husbands

"sourCes" for news. JAFFE does a good job, knows the ropes of

his profession and 1g & thoroughly competent Journalist. Knowa

a great many Russians and now has very good contacts with the

North Vietnamese - this rather unusual for an American correspon

dent In Moscow. Both are Jewish.

A His

Pistei

56

and 77? 2300 dole

15 SEP 1966

---

## Page 61

≤=.?

NT. TOY D. KOILER

Maition (Jan 65): US Ambassador 1n Moscow, USSR

souncs wonders why, In view of his positon, i. Kohler

Das a Chinese

cook - she thinks this la a poor security practice.

PURCE knows of no spocific things about the ambassador's

sook which would make his a security risk otber than his

antlonality. The fact that the American ambassador has a

unloose cook is often the subject of conversation on the loscow

1p circuito. "1fe has no taste in clothes.

SECRET

1.5 SEP 1966

---

## Page 62

UNITED STATES

Nr. Walter J. STOISSEL, JI.

Position (Jan 65):. US Hinister Counsellor In Hoscow, USSR

The STOESSEle triod to entertain in & grand way but were

obivously asateurs. They would serve entiroly too much liquor

before dinner. and get their guests potted. Their food at dinners

was indifferent though of good quallty. They did serve good

, French wines. One got the supression irs. STOESSEl, did not take

too many pains in planning and serving her dinner!. She has a

terrible cook. SOURCE entertainod the STOESSELS in her home on

about 10 occasions (from Oct 62 to the tine the STOESSELS left).

N1fe dresses badly, even worse than Mrs. Kohler.

SACRET

c. 15 SEP 1960

---

## Page 63

UNITED STATES

Ms. Malcolm TOON

Position (Jau 65):

. :

Counsellor for political affairs, US Enbassy,

Мовсов

Socially bottor than most of the US Esbassy personnel.

Wife dresses badly.

isole gird

SECRET.

1.5. SEP 1966

---

