04-01 19-10250

tant

‘4, father; Russian Jew, who had oneo lived in Now York." According ta

i h4
phe ; . RETURN TO o14 \¢0\
1 bvd? a

ving acca Becta wicket in ig tia tabi anioe acs vammen eatin at artist on see

Seat Sey ; bor

ATTACHMENT.

‘SunTECts  BELYTSXIY, Porte Yefimovich #275069 - SSD

NOSBY, Aline #172252

According ta several sources Boris Y. Belitskiy is an associate of
Alina Mosby, whose name eppoar’ed in Oswald's efdress book. (Page 61 of
the efdress book, which is on page 22 of the FRI memorandum of 31
Decenbor 1963. She is mentioned also in CI/SIG's cover memorandum
dated 10 January 1964.) i: :

“According to sn/o/cn, #56948 8D & SSD, in September
1958, ‘Aline Masby was contact with Boris ¥. Belitekly,. a
Bussien officiel at the Brussels Wor: , end “was the center of o

“great. deol of activity for (him)". stated that Eelitskiy, who was

the Head of the British Division of 6 Moscov, bef been an interpreter
for the Ruseions at the Brussels World Fair. ‘He previously had been in
early..1930's. (poyie) said that Belitskiy attended school in New York City ©
end that the familly returned to Russia in 1936 or 1937. :

‘the United Stateg with his father, who wos ‘ith AMPORG in the late 1920's/"

Ulth further reference to Mosby, iam noted fhat there was a direct °
relationship bebygen Mosby, Koch (Carl enfy Koch, #50001) and Volkoff
kof ty #152385,+ 88D) — all of whom had“been of interest with
‘Bolitokly.

Others whom’ Mosby knew included Mexonder Routan #165651 - SSD,
to vhom she was introduced by MoKinney. Ua Russell £793853 - SSD, still’
enother who was of interest in connection with Belltskiy. :

CE/SIG was advised in late 1958 regerding the above individuals and
inforned that CI/OA was also interested in then.

According to informnmbion furnished by Fitzgsrala Curtis Smith, gee
#176178 + SSD, during a debriefing in Juns 1959, Boris ¥. Belitskty, whom
‘Smith katw dn Moscow, was‘in great fear of being purged, “as was his
Enith, Politekiy knew ond trusted no U.S. citizens in Moscow other then
himself (Smith) and Aline Mosby, UPI correspondent in Moscow. Smith anid’ :
Belitckty mot Aljme Mosby at the Brussels World Fair in the sumer of 1958,
ot the come time hé mt Smith. Smith said he subsequently contacted ~~. 2:
Belitekiy in Moscow in December 1958, through NBC Correspondent Irvine Re

‘Background Use ty

n Bing en



cae
o

iad

Another who knows, or has know, Aline Mosby is former Agency employe?
George Winters, #55769. Winters steted during en interview in Novenber/
December 1960, when discussing Americano in Moscow who lived beyond their
meons, thot newspeperman Harry Schapiro*was ce very heavy loser at poker —
to the extent that “one got the impression he was on the Soviet budget."
Schopiro, he seid, had a Russian wife who wes more eggrecsive than he.
Winters added that nevopsperwomon Aline Mosby was in Schapiro's office;
end commented that she "stuck mostly to the Foreign circuit rather than
the Exbassy circuit.” He solid that she bed been in the hospital an several
ocassions airing the previous year, so that “one didn't see too mich of her"!
and added that according to gossip one hospitalization was ocassioned by an
abortion.

Another newspaperwoman in Moscow, whom Winters mentioned, was Priecillc
Johnson, ¥#71589-DL. She has been mentioned in newspaper articles as ona who
reenlied having come in contact with Lee Harvey Oswald in Moscow, where she
interviewed (or talked) with him. Her name, like Mosby's,was listed in his”
efdress book under her lest nome only.

Mosby was born on 27 July 1922 in Missoula, Montana; ond graduated
from the University of Montana in 1943. She was employed by United Press
in Seattle, Washington, from 1943 to 1945, and was Hollywood Correspondent
for UP from 1945 to 1957. According to the UP Bureau Manager at Los Angeles,
ehe resigned voluntarily in 1957 and her employment was satisfactory. Ac-
cording to Confidential informant R-1, during an Agency investigation in the
fall of 1958, she was dropped by UP when she was subpoeaned in connection
with legal suits against Confidential Magazine, for which she hed done re-
write work without the knowledge of UP. She went to the Brussels World Fair
os @ Stringer for the North American Newspaper Alliance. She was considered
loyal by her associates during the above period; but was described as "the
co-existence type who associates with Russians" ("plays footsie with the
Russtens”). No informant questioned her loyalty.

In Jenuary 1960, Mosby reportedly was introduced on the Dave Garroway
Show, "Today", 23 NBC Nows' Correspondent; but in a State Department dis-
patch of 12 December 1960, which listcd "Western Correspondents in Moscow",
che was named es representing UPI.

According to HCUA records, Mosby did o motion picture critic type
article for the Daily Worker in 1947; wrote en article for the Daily Worker
at Legune Beach, California, in 1949; and contributed a column to the Daily
Worker on 23 November 1956. According to records of the Civil Service Com-
mission, the Daily Worker of 26 July 1957 and 29 August 1957 carried infor-
mation regarding her.

M. D. Stevens

YWacey Nehap

y Shapiro, PNO2G10O-C, who (witae his wife)
was the Sub:

onage investigation in 1963.

sy be bonne

cL of an PRI

