# 104-10185-10131

## Page 1

(104-10185-10131

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

-5

3

2

SECRET

NO. FOREIG DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUSJECT Alfredo GARCIA Almeira

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CS CI-518. 00580-64

27 July 1964

$

REFERENCES

LF

ACCORD 0 CI

CATE OF 1984

iNFO.

PLACE &

Mashington, D. C

Doned: Reproduce

CATE 4CO.

9 1662

FIELD REPORT NO.

TRIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORILATION. SOURCE GRADINES ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL CE CONTEST IS PENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

incormation provided by the source and includes supplementa.

information from the records of this Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checsing with this Agency.

Alfredo GARCIA Almeira, pscudonym "Aranja, " resides on Calle

29, Number 716 entre Septima y Novera, ilizarmar, Habana, Cuba.

GARCIA was in Venezuela when it broxe relations with Cuba.

He

was laier involved in an attempted recovery of documents from a

plare crash in Peru, which led to his espulsion from Chile. He

is now the Venezuelan desk officer in the Departamento Liberacion

Nacional (LN - National Liberation Department) of the Direccion.

General de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate of Intelligerce).

ane DGI considers its Venezuelan operations the most successful

in South America. 4, 2, 4, 5, 9, 6, 1, 8, 9

Headquarters Comments

As an attachment to a document dated 10 May 1961 there was a

letter from one Lisandro GALVEZ, Tegucigalpa, Fionduras,

10 Alfredo GARCIA Almeida, Mayor 111, entre Central y

Suarez, Luyaro, Habar, Cuba, and dated 4 May 1961.

Included in the letter was a check for $365. 43 ior GARCIA

madur 1

TO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

: FBI 2

PEP CINCLAST

¡Nicie: Fiold dissribution ircicated by "=".)

CINCSO ÷

3

3119/

VE/S1/00B112/5R

77SA/MOST

WE/UNDRIZ CITREA

WHISA/R

,1:

N1/S-/C1

IRID! AN

VIVE I

TOTE

SITE

IVE/SA? (1), iVE 1(2), CI4, RID 1

12 Ju: 1363

1 H

Hered

ELX - 1000

NO PROJECT

- (410 0G-1)

CSCI-330/00380-63

¡COORDINATING RELEASINE

WMK:LD

201-336997

---

## Page 2

SECAST

TO FORSICY ELSEM

-2-

and some pagers from the bark concernin- car checks to GARCLA ard

one Jose CARILLO Garcia GARCIA ard CIVILLO were Cuban

diplomats ir. Honduras unti! dipiomatic relations were susperded

in Apri! 1961.

2. A document daied § October 1962 included & list of Cuban personrel

assigned to the Cuban Embassy in Santiago, Chile. Alfredo

GARCIA Almeyda was included on the list as Secord Secretary,

his date ara place of birth were given as 1933 in Cuba and his

passport number was listed as Diplomatic 415/62.

3.

In a report dated 21 December 1962 from a usually reliable

source, it was stated that the personal efieces of Alfredo GARCIA

Almeyca, Second Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Chile and

a suspected Cuban G-2 official, were aboard the Swedish ship,

Sirgit Bergt Sjosten, when it sailed from Chile to Cuba on

Early in the morning on 25 March 1953 a local Santiago radio

broadcast anounced that the Cuban Second Secretary, Alfredo .

GARCIA Almeyda, had been declared persona ron grata by the

Chilean government for misrepresenting himsell to Chilean

authorities while trying to reach the site cia plane crash in

Peru.

This information was later confirmed by the Chilean

Undersecret..y for Foreign Afairs who said tat GARCIA told

the governor of Arica that he (GARCLA) was a Chilean journalist

and that he rad forgotten his identification ¿couments. GARCIA

was accompanied by the Chilean Communist Deputy, Luis VALENTE

Rossi,

who vouched for GARCLA's story.

VALENTE tried to

Convince the Peruvian Border Authorities tha, be was a Brazilian

journalist. The two were denied entry into Paru and thus did

rot reach the site.

This information was taker from a document

dated 25 March 1963.

5.

In another Document dated 25 March 1963 it was reported that

Alfredo GARCIA Almeyda, Second Secretary di the Cuban Embassy

in Santiago, would leave by plane, Canadian Pacific, on 27 March

1953 for alexico.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3-

6.

# 26 Warch 1963 report stated tha: Alíredo GARCIA Almeyda left

Santiago on 26 March 1963 via Iberia Airlines enroute to Madrid.

Originally he was to leave Suntiago on 27 March 1963 ior Mesico

via Canadian Pacific, but the Chilean government demanded he leave

on the 26th of March.

7. al usually reliable source in a document dated 25 March 1963 advised

that Aliredo GARCIA Aimeyda, Cuban Charge in Santiago, entered

seru on two occasions using aliases.

The first occasion was on

9 March 1963 when GARCIA traveled to Tacna, Peru, using

Moises GOMEZ Paredes.

CARCIA was accompanied by

a Chilear Communist Party Deputy from Arica. A Chilean news-

paperman from Arica advised source of their true identities and

source, in turn, advised the Peruv. authorities who expelled both

men to Chile. On 21 March 1963 Gi?CIA went to Charana, Peru,

using the alias Federico GARCIA

8.

A 29 March 1963 document reported that Alfredo GARCLA Almeyda.

departed Madrid for Paris on 27 March 1963 enroute to Habana via

Prague.

9.

An 11 April 1963 document gave the following biographic data on

Alíredo GARCIA Almeyda:

GARCIA was born on 3 Augus: 1938 in Cuba. He carried

diplomatic passport number D/22/4i3 issued on 3 August 1962.

He is married to Delfina (ricz-ame Nan!) QUIETLAN Fernardez

de GARCIA who was born or. 23 August 1938. They have one

son, Alfreco GARCIA Guietiaz sino was, born on 9 April 1962.

GARCIA and his family arrived in Santiago on 4 August 1962

from Mexico and while in Sartiego resided at Padre Restrepe

2615. GARCIA was declared persona non grata by the

Chilean government for using iaise Chilean credentials in

crossins the Chilean-Peruviz- sorder. GARCIA and his

family left Chile on 26 March 1553 for Madrid; he planned

to travel to Prague and then to Habana.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

