# 104-10262-10265

## Page 1

104-10262-10265

UN-ZASSIFIED

SURECT: a

##Ou

U

- é ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON"" ENTIAL

C SECRET

EXTENSION

RIAN

XAX-004

18 Sep 64

INITLALS

ACENED

WEA

DATE

PORTARDEO

CI/RA

2c

29

? 3.

Cara

SomE AS

866-894

12.

19.

14.

15.

PORM

8-41

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

FILE IN:

201-740720

VSE ONLY

UNCLASSIPIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

XAX-604

C-9813

18 September 1964

MIMORANDUM FOR : Chief, DD/P/CI Stall

ATTENTION

/ CU/RKA/TC/Jopeph Burk

SUBJECT

8 Handwriting Identificaton (22, 028-1)

REFERENCE

8 Coquers Memo, 16 September 1964

1. Reference forwarded (1) a poor quality reduced nise photo-

graph ol a Cuban Viia Application in the name of Lee H. Orwald with

• handwritten notion in the lower leit corner that appeara to read

"Hotel del Cameron(?)/ Room 18 46-60-51(?)", (2) enlargod photograph,

unknown alse, of signature "S. de Duran", and (3) Xerox copy of Volume

§ of the exhibite do the "Investigation of Ansassination ef President John E.

Kennedy, November 22, 1963", containing handwriting specimens of Lee

Harvey Orwald. It was requented that an effort be made to determine ll

Silvia Duran or Lee H. Oswald wrote the notetion in the lower laft corner

2. There are several obntaclee, or deficiencies in evidence,

which preclude reaching an un-qualified opinion in this matter. such se

the extreme poor quality ol the reduced uise (entimated to be about. 3X to

55X) photograph of the vina application as opposed to the enlarged Duran

•Ignature, and the abeence of comparable lettere in the two writingo.

3. Nevertheleno, careful examination and comparison of all of

the wilting leade to the following opialon: There lu enouga similarity

between the writing in the aignature "S. de Duran" and she questicned

notation on the visa appliention to make !' appear probable that Duran

pinced the notation on the application. Or, stating it another way; !

woubd not eliminate her nn a suspect writer of the notation. Examiantion

of the original documente might remove there quallficatione.

I do not lind enough aimllarily between Oawald's welling and

the quentioned notation to warrane a numpielon that ho do the aulios.

CS CO NO H1-201: 289248.

COPY

SECRET

HaNTi-Fye

andur

Lacinted Mom artuna

dowagending and

daclapallied tee

201-740720

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

XAX-004

0-9813

Page t

S. In snother report dated & September 1964 (Q-9795, 21-947-85)

Oswald was Identified so the author of the signature "Lee H. Onwald" on

the applicatios.

•. All of the documente were returned to you direct por yous

request.

Thomas

H. Thomas

TED/QAR3/QDS

Distribution

2 - Addres

СОРУ

SECRET

201-740720

L

---

