104-10186-10244

i" CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

° Thue materal cnntsine Information agecting the Xational Defenee of te Catted Slates sIthin the meaning of the Baplonage Laws, Tite
USC Bey Tod and TH, the trademianicn or ferelation Uf AYA In any manner ty an unauthorised person ts pronieited by lew,

SECRET
NO_FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY ‘Cuba REPORT NO. = CCI-316/01216-64
suMecT Cesus CALAS Rodriguez DATE DISTR. §=— «16 September 1964 ys
NO. PAGES, =)
\ —
REFERENCES »
ES ok

DATE OF 959 op

Wachington, D.C, \
bate aca September 1964 FIELO_REPORT NO.
THIS 1S UNEVAIUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE ONADINOS ARE OL/INITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intel1i
Service until April 1964, fia

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a weries containing personality
formation provided by the source and. includes supplemental ti
infurmation from the records of this Agency.

+ 4s requested that tho addressees take no action on any. of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Source met Jesus CALAS Rodriguez in the Department
of Irvestigations of the Police in 1959.

2. CALAS was born in Santiago de Cuba, Oriente Province, Cuba,
about i936. He is five foet seven inches tall, 145 pounds, has
a medium build, black, cuyly hair, and a thin moustache. His
famiiy resides 4n Mabana,

Headquarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on CALAS.

1.

rd
id

ee ‘aceon 2a

[state Tora, Taemy Twave NO, FORE “BIS Toca FBI 2
REP SASCLANT. CINCSO # __1&NS.

Fegld gintibution Indecoted by" iH

Home

LX - 1687
NO PROJECT (AMMUG/L)
{CSCI-316/01216-44

[coro marine VEAL

I
ens cr DAA
: ma/sa/7 Gi), WE1 (2), Cl 4, RID aeettae ji 15
201 - None 19-6-102/

on 3/8

(OBsULK FE PREVIOTS EDTTIONS
