d-1447 004)

“4. On 18 September 1960, 3 staff employees (David Christ, Thornton,
Anderson and Walter Szuminski) were arrested by the Cuban G-2 while in-~
stalling audio surveillance equipment against the New China News Agency

in Havana, About thé same time an Agency case officer, Robext Neet, and“ ae
| SSeS | ere picked

a stay-behind agent and hts wife, Mr. and Mrs.
up. All six were jailed. Subsequently, Mrs
and deported. = 2. d :

and Neet were released

UE
ar : ee : ;

2.. The 3 ataff employees were operating under alias identities which ~
have stood up to date (Daniel Carswell, Eustace Danbrunt, Edmund Taransky).
The staff employees and the stay-behind agent were tried on 17 December
1960. On10 January 1961, the’ staff employees were sentenced to 10 years
in jail, and the stay-behind agent was ordered dep exted. The deportation
took place shortly thereafter,” spsceericcioee : é

3. Following the arrest, the 3 Agency employees were first detained
at the G-2 headquarters in Havana and shortly thereafter were moved to”
the LaCabana prison. | It,was possible to keep them supplied with food, ne-
cessities, radios, reading material, etc. On 23 January in spite of the .:.
immediate appeal of the sentence filed by their lawyer, the 3 men were
moved to the Isle of Pines where living and sanitary conditions are in-

’ tolerable. Prisoners are required to perform hard manual labor, and -

there is an insufficiency of food.

2/py

4, With the assistance of Mr. Hugh Kessler, a U.S. consular of-
ficial, close contact was kept with the 3 men until diplomatic relations -
with Cuba were severed. Through a Washington attorney, James R.
Murphy, arrangements were made with a Cuban lawyer, Dr. Fernando: -
Colomar, to represent the 3 men in court. Golomar was not told of |
any Agency interest fn the operation, Through the joint services of
Messrs. Kessler and Colomar, the 3 men were supplied with pocket
money, food, clothing, toilet articles, etc. After diplomatic relations
were severed, Colomar continued to visit the men until they were trans- ©
ferred to the Isle of Pines, Be



5, The 3 men have been held In the Modelo Prison, Nueva Gerona,
Isle of Pines since January 1961,. We have been successful in getting money.
and supplies to them through the Washington Attorney to the Swiss Embassy
in Havana... They have matatatned contact by letters... Their last corre .
pondence was written on 17/18 October 1962. They are be!
reasonably good health. The Swiss are attempting to verify & report that | * ~)
3 Americans were transferred to the Bonfato Prison in carly November 1962, “

be ie has eed ‘necessary in this case to conceal Governnient interest oh
in the 3 prisoners in order to avoid their execution and/or full debriefing & on
the sensitive information they’ possess, DA :

7. The ‘Washington Attorney, has obtained ascoctate counsel in México.
City and in Chicago, Illinois. The Chicago Attorney, who is unwitting of
Government Interest, (Constantine N. Kangles) visited Havand in May/June -
1962 and as of November 22, 1962 received word that as soon'as possible -~
he will be invited back to | Cuba to negotiate with Fidel Castro on this case.
Kangles expects the release of the 3 men not later an the firet week tn -

8 Other operational efforts to secure the releade of the men are a
progress. We have avoided keeping Mra. Christ fully briefed on the spe--
clfica of the efforts betng made, as she tends to be critical of the Agency:
and of the fact that she ls unaware of any significant Interest in the case in ©: -
the Executive Branch of the Government, She has previously seen Mesars.
Allen Dulles, General Cabell, General Maxwell Taylor, and General Carter.

9. Mre James Donevan, who has appeared in connection with negotia- :
tions for the Playa Giron prisoners, has been made aware of the 22 Amert-:
cans held in Cuba and of the Agency Interest in. 3 of those —— He
has not been told thelr true names. ~~ 7

10. David Christ's wife, Wilma, and thelr six ‘children tive in the
Washington area where they have been frequently visited by members of
the Agency. She has explained to neighbors that her husband is away on a
long TDY for the Government which has become a permanent assignment
and that in line with the new regulations on overseas travel of dependents,
she has not been allowed to follow him. Wilma Christ has been paid her

i husband's accumulated per diem and salary.

nL David Christ is 45 years old (his ao. was 20 )January)- He’



te

is a graduate of Pennsylvania State College with a degree of B.S, in Electrical
Engineering. He worked before the war for the Atlas Powder Company and
was a let Lt. in the USAAF from 1942 to 1946. Following the war, he ine .*
structed at Pennsylvania State College until 1950 when he joined the A;

Wilma Christ is 42 years old. “There are 6 children in the

Thomas, age18 Susan, age 9
. Elaine, age 16 Stuart, age 5 ana
* Linda, age 12 Roger, age 3 a if nein

The 2 older, children have been ‘briefed on the situation and are aware of their :
father's predicament.} va seed 7 ee :

5:

