104-10063-10208)

PROCESSING ACTION

Chief, Far East Division X [wo wroecna nequmen
Chief, WOMUSE; Chief of Station 17 fas noe moe
FROM ACTING ee
Chief of Station, be iorornn
aa

0 UO

$Sun — Anti-American Propaganda Material Circulating in Japan
Teron REQUNED-AFRENC FOY Your information.

DIRECTOR 49260

1. Forwarded herewith is a pamphlet prepared by the Japan,
"Peaci i a e HEIREN) for distribution to U.S.
Sérvicemen stationed in Japan or visiting Japan. BEHEIREN activists
are distributing these pamphlets outside major U.S. bases throughout
Japan, BEHEIREN had planned to drop copies of this pamphlet over
the USS ENTERPRISE and the U.S. Navy Base at Sasebo during the
ENTERPRISE's visit there this month. However, this planned action
fell through due to BEHEIREN's inability to obtain the cooperation
of @ Japanese newspaper, MINAMI KYUSHU SHIMBUN, in obtaining a
helicopter for the exercise ZPOFRAGRANCE/I obtained this pamphlet
from BEHEIREN headquarters in Tokyo on 16 January.

22,

2. @GsTA}53886, which forwarded a locally distributed BEHEIREN
propaganda poster, was not designated|({MPASHA but might appropriately
have been so designated. jz

3. Also forwarded herewith is a clipping from the JCP's
AKAHATA, Sunday edition, 21 January (identical article also appeared
“In AKAHATA daily, 13 January). This article announced that
GENSUIKYO printed up 10,000 leaflets, copies of an advertisement
placed in the Chicago Daily News, May 1967. A sample of this
advertiseuent was sent to ‘KYO by Fred Bachiyuruta (phonetic) ,
Chief of the Philadelphia branch of the “Vetefans for Peace in

stribution:

2 - C/FE w/Attachs 1, 2 & 3 b/w

1 - c/wol attachs

1 - cos /o attachs
Attachment RETURN TO CIA
1. Phamplet : Background Use Only
2. Clipping ‘Do Not Reproduce

3.  USNAVINVSERVO Report

- 7149

Ts BERETS TPR Tae Da WHET aa
¢ re)
(E57A} 53902 cae | Jan 29
2 CLASSIFICATION... : ‘HQS FILE NUMBER
: | ininown



T CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

ee
DISPATCH (e378)-53902
Vietnam." AKAHATA announced that GENSUIKYO has already distributed

some of these leaflets near U.S. military installations in Yokosuka,
Sasebo, and Tachikawa, and that these leaflets will also be.sent to
Okinawa. . 7

4, Also forwarded, FYI, is a USNAVINVSERVO JAPAN, Report No.
5 396 0037 68, dated 15 January 1968, which has’attached a
propaganda newspaper distributed by the "Veterans Stars and Stripes
for Peace." The Paragraph 3 organization, above, is apparently an |
i

affiliate of this organization.
Mark J. LL hoe

a

SETTER rae
~ a co
| gree , .

| gf 530 use revs exin. a. : , 5

(pu -

