iu 093-0

rr eam)

Lk SER BLL

. . . . patie \ ‘
CKA - Isl
15 April 1902

Chief, Task Force/w
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Operational/GYROGE

Roatline from Cuba, Las Villes

ATTENTION REQUESTED: FH/KUIUBE :
* CO OR,

REF: CKA-152 and 153, 15 Apr &

Ls On 12 April 1962,“Tose Ants: Amore, A-12595931, born

20 April 1939, Baltolone, Las Vill ter living in Estacion Dolores,
Tas Villas); Miami-address: Refugee Center, was interviewed. .

2. Source said that he formerly belonced to the MRR in Estacion
Dolores and that "El Chino" vas his leader. About 3-) months ago, "BL

Chino" was arrested and {s still in jail. Since thie tine, the MRR in
Ectacion Dolores has been operating witliout any leader. Source lett

Cube_by small dont, and the reason for hie leaving, he said, was because

FHaie Palecivo, an MRR nenber, was arrested and taken to the paredon.
When Palacios was. paced before the paredon, he broke down and confessed

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

¢

Lesa, Pale Hiditing,

and implicated the source and others in counter-revoluticnary, activities.

Palacios was released and source fled.

3. Source satd that shortly before "El Ciluo” was arresied, tie NAR
was to receive same arms frou "Yayo" Estevez, in Miami. On the day on which

they were to make the“pickup at sea, their boat vas confiscated by the
goverment.

boat was obtained through: Caibarien. He said that

18 arenber ofthe Caibarien FEN and ob€ained the: services of two other
member his brother (name unknown), who are fishermen,
menbers of the MAR id also nilicianos. In the course of a fishing trip

they took a boatload of escapees (including the source) to Cayo Fragogo.
The escapees hid in the mangrove swanps and the others ae

A cuban. patrol came by and talked to ea others, but soon vent.
away) the] brothers then picked up the @Bcapees and_tock then to
Cayo Angut: ‘then. there ant then returned to Cuba.

ond the| others are now in Cuba.
5+ Source is a cripple (he has a leg which appears vithered), but

4. Source said he was. ioe leaye Cuba by small boat because a oY

evertheless, he volunteered to go back into Cuba in any canactty vhich is

tae
“7

needed.

cc-yf

DEFERRED —

Zp Ap rg

$160
