# 104-10126-10010

## Page 1

104-0126-10010]

CONFIDENTIAL.

ALC Record cops.

DIC $78-4019/2

16 November 1978

• MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: HSCA Access to Mexico City History

1. HSCA requested access to some 200 pages of the

three-volume history of Mexico City - about a third of

the material.

The

substantive content runs the gamut fron

ne history of Mexico University through detailed operation

al support capabilities and high level political connect.

ions and activities. It is

operational activity - classical sources and methods, as

well as detailed revelations about past events.

2. We pointed out that the agreement between Chairman

Stokes and DDCI Carlucci directly faced the issue of the

irrelevancy of the vast majority of the history, and the

sensitivity of it.

, The HSCA position had been

that it had

to verify this, and the access given to senior levels was

to satisfy this. Now it was being requested in connection

with depositions, which would serve to get this material

into a Committee

transcript. Since some two-thirds of the

station's history (the work covers (1947 through 1969) pre-

ceded the visit of Oswald to Mexico in 1963 and assassination

of the President, that clearly had nothing to do with the

Committee's charter.

I added that Mr. Carlucci is out of

town, and

will not be back until some time Sunday, so I

could not go back to him. The request was so far

beyond the

agreement, that I felt I could not modify it. Cornwell then

asked that I speak to the Director.

3.

I saw the Director at about noon, and summarized

the agreement and the dilemma, also going over the above.

He stated that I could offer access to one senior staff

member (in addition to Blakey and Cornwell)on the condition

that material from the history not be used in depositions.

4.

said that they may

I spoke with Cornwell, giving him the message. He

replied that the history is based on other sources; those

the portion that"

wish to use some of the material.

related to the portion that is within the Committee's charter

CONFIDENTIAL

~ IMPDET CL BY /3190

19975

---

## Page 2

•CONFIDENTIAL

was based entirely on

sources to which Committee investi-

gator's have had access. Our problem was the overall

collection, and particularly some of the substance of the

history.

He asked if he could come back and ask for it,

if they wanted to use something in particular.

I said

that we had never closed a door completely, but that the

Director's condition was

fairly clear.

Those things

relevant to their authorized inquiry

were already in

their hands, so I could not think what they would have

to use from

this. They will ask us, and we can react

when they do.

5.

Goldsmith came over to start reading.

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:

1 - F. Hitz/OLC

1

- H. Smith/SA/DDCI

1

N. Shepanek /PCS/ LOC

1

1

- W. Sturbitts/LA/Div

- OLC/Subj

1 - OLC/Chrono

CONFIDENTIAL

---

