# 104-10054-10287

## Page 1

1104-10054-102871

SEGRET

NET.

10 Feb 77

Source:

Notes made by A. Goodpasture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Subject:

Background on Mexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1. (Unilateral) coverage. From the time the Mexico Station was opened in

(April 1947) (by Bill Doyle) until arrival of Win Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to tal

exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites

e surveillance

team and a mail intercept operation.

a. Phone taps were placee

who was handled

employee of the telephone company

WILSTED (pseudo). The number of lines

tapped

by availability of a listening post nearby

(since

th

taps were not made in the main central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, ete) transcribers. Generally

these

agents (mostly Mexican or Mexican American) were related

(which the station at that time felt was good security in that

if they telked about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Anderson with the help

of Harry Mahoney (retired, living in Chicago) and TDY ISD

people checking

the best type of camera, film, and concealment

devices. These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LIMITED, LILYRIC,

and LICALLA) • LIMITED was a fixed site bang opposite across

the street from the front gate of the Soviet Embassy which had

both a vehicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

Northlest corner. of their compound and LIMITED was diagonally

across a double barrelled

street on the Southeast cor

see ungra page 1a.

[SEBIET

1085 661 0011045

JFK-056

Copy 30f7

00001.64

SEGRET

(1-3

13

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2-

IBEGRET

that block. LIMITED was

the first base

and it

operaied

strictly on an

an erimental basis in the early stages.

I trink the llexi

Station bought

one

storey

this property. (a/Spanish Colonial stone house) through LINOUSLIE (check to

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word thet the photo of "uniden man" was being released to the

public by the Warren Commission. The photo operators were moved to another apt

nearby. The property was sold (under an operational agreement with LINOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment biding to be built

on this site).: LILYRIC was planned as an alternate phote

tO LIMITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on th

de of the street

as LLITED but in the middle of the block saut

had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Einbass

agents in LIMITED and LILYRIC (both

Mexican fanilies, as far

as

were not acquainted with each other.

LILYRIC was a rented apa

LICALIA, the third photo site, was located

in one of a row of four houses

on the South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

which the Mexico Station purchased in about 1958 (check date), also using

LIMOUSINE as the purchaser (check). This site overlooked the back garden of

the Soviet Enbassy compound. The purpose of this operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (no at thet time were largely

unidentified in Mexico Station records). The three photo sites were handled by

Ramon Alvarez' (Mexican citizen of U.S. mother who taught elecentary level at

the American School). Ramon collected the film e

em from LIMITED

and LILYRIC three times a week. His sister's husband, Carlos (Mexican doctor)

developed and printed the film into 8xl0 contact print strips. The master plan

LB9 FOr LOAZIA SilI do i processel Lot, 79D san fron 1957 to 1959 tharper

Holt - resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed film began

to accumulate, the inside CO (Mahoney) became disgusted and took the film out

for (Ramon's) brother-in-law to process (probably early 1959). Thus Ramon became

the handler for all three photo bases.

A sensitive staff D nonitoring operation

0000165

14

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-3 -

was run out of another one

of these houses (crypt for the four houses was

LIUST,1, cte).

This was ha:dled by Glen WIDDEN (outside ISD officer) aná

Mahoney using HQ TDY

teams for monitoring. This opsration vas

also separate

fron LICALLA.

The two houses in betveen ere rented

to unsuspecting tenants.

co Mobile surveillance was developed by Anderson and later placed

• under liahoney and Joseph Sancho. This tean consisted of a half

dozen or so agents who used three to four late model cars and a

panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo covera e).

The plan was to activate this group ty radio (from LINTED JASE)

when someone of interest left the/Embassy gate

with them

until they made their meetings.

Thes

Bout the LITTED

SASE cecause they had u

identification purposes..

This worked f

about the middle of 1958 (check date)

when one of

th

surveillance agents got too close to his target and

was arrested by the Mexican transit police and turned over to the

Mexican Secret Service. By the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to bail him out ((Juad Austin of the Goodrich,

Little and Riquelme firml, the agent had identified Sancho (who was

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside-

phone number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Puckett). As a result of this flap, the LIFTAT project was broken

up into several others. The agents were not changed but were given

Frank

new crypts. /Estancona ard Peggy laggard replaced Andersón in handling

the unilateral, phone taps. Puckett replaced Mahoney and handled the

surveillance team (LIENTRAF) and the photo bases through Remon

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) mail

intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, The agent (Mexicen) had

a semi official status and arranged to obtain selected letters fron

0000166

15

---

## Page 4

14-00000

(a sub-agent in ute jostal system (I thin's at the airport),

ATIonso Spera,

were later/Fuckett, Rosert Foldmann, and Alan White.

His case officers

2.

{LIaison coverage) was unreliable and insecure as characterized by the nature

of the l'exidan services at that tine. LIte Mexican DES (Direction of Federal

(Security) with which we dealt was a hip pocket group run out of the linistry

Of Gov rument. This iänistry spent a major part of its time on control of

foreigners and political investigations.

Their azents vere vicious, venal,

corrupt extortionists. (Robert Melberg) established contact with one of them

(Levine De Leon' (later LIFIRE group) in aboat 1950 or 51. He gave them some

training (a group of about five surveillance types) in travel

sorol working

the airport as well as file searches of names from DE

ure the files

were poorly organized and often inaccurate.

en, however, sore useful

information was developed but it

depended upon.

(Melberg) was

replaced by Phil Foetting,

and remained in Mexico), Mahoney, Thomas

Hazlitt, and Robert Feldma

"one after the Ether)

During 1958, Win Scott met socially some of the chronies of the

Mexican President elect, Adolfo Lopez l'ateos, During this period, the U.s.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight communism". One of these seeds

grew into a proposal figuel Aleman (Jr. son of forner lexi President), acting)

for Lopez l'ateos, made to Win Scott for a Joint telephone tap operation,

project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a shakedown.

The lexican in control (LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, and greedy. His

son (LIENVOY-2))was a masterpiece of deceit and corruption. LIELEGANT alSO

manipulated control over the principal agent of LIBIGHT rail intercept.

The

first case

officer was Alfonso Spera inside with Turner Smith (retired) outside

and John

(TSD training officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post where

thirty telerhone lines would connect as well es a transcription room

0000167

16

---

## Page 5

14-00000

staffed i; (b.ican army officers?) Initially the station tried to met every

demand made by the lexicans. Both (Snith) and John had language difficulties and

personal problens associated with being outside the station so thet the Mexicans)

were virtually uncontrollaile, spendi € money as they pleased, squirrelling away

equipment at enornous costs, and neglecting their part uf the bargain' in the

production of transcripts or placing taps which we wanted. Spera was replaced

by Jack Brady wno found himself in the same pincer novement of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Bredy had turned down by the son, LIEIVOY-2.

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little to show for it;

the project was revarped. /Smith and John returned to the U.S

nd were replaced

by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who was put inside

wing post to naintain

Brady was reassigned to other duti

the equioment./ Scott took over the project as

He designated Ann Goodpasture to meet

cer meeting with LIELEGANT.

sith

Flick for routine supervision

of the listening post, pickin

ripts and tapes. Goodpasture had no

dealingswith the lexican

when Scott was ill or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were made by Scott. This was about late 1961..

3. My menory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Embassy but I

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, It was a rakeshift arrangerent of volunteers

through most of 1960 and El witt. Tom Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on

their activities and recruitirg agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Mexico City

4 Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in Mexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

Warren Connission. To deternine who vas there and what they were doing I

have gro:ped persons together chronologically with areas of their assignment

as the

covcring from 1950 to 1969 so that sloather nanes pop up, one cen tell what

period they were in Mexico and

their assignments at the time.

SECRET,

0000168

.17

---

## Page 6

14-00000

8/50-6/69

COS

DCOS

Winston X. Scott (deceased)

7/56-7/58

Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

10/58 - 12/621

/ (retired)

6/63 - 9/65

Alan White (retired)

10/65 - 1,969

Stanley Watson (retired in lexico)

COVERT ACTION

Prior to 19541

Howard Hunt (retired)

(12/545 - 7/55

(Williard Hill (resigned)

12/56 - 9/61

Stannard Short (retired)

Chief

9/61

- 3/64

David Phillips C/(retired) -

8/62-9/64

Asst ame

2/64 - 6/65

James Flannery C/(retired) -

9/64 - 11/66 Herold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967

Stanler Watson C/(retired)

68 - 71

Joseph SmithC (retired in Me

SUCTION PROHIBITED

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62

Thomas Hazlit

2/60 - 4/62 Jack Stewar

(retired Costa Rica)

4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief

9/63 - 7/65 Ray Swider →

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Hackay

(retired).

8/66-6/65 David Phillips Chief (returew)

9/65

- 10/68 Joseph Piccolo

10/65 - 12/67 Pessy Maggard

5/57 - 10/59 Louise Iyon (retried!

7/59- 8/65 Herbert Manell Chief-

3/59 - 8/65 Barbara lanell

;/64 - 7/66 Willian Bright

/65 - 11/67 Cynthia Hausmann

1/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

165-4/69

Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TRANSCRIBERS

6/56 - 8/58.

Morris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63

George Misko

6/63 ÷ 70

Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) -

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps)

(retired ?)

Outside CO

CC00169

18

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SUPPORT ASSETS

Unilateral phono teps

{1949 - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

(4/55) - 4/60 (Pegey Kaggard) Asst

4/56 - 1/62

Frank Estancona Chief

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

9/64 - 12/67 lichael Farmer

[49-71: Outside CO

David WILSTED (ps)

retired in Mexico

Unilateral photo Cubans

6/59 - 4/64

Robert Zambernardi (resigned Mexico)

7/59 - 6/62 (Richard Scathar ISD (retired)

Unilateral photo Soviets

13/541-4/59

Harry T. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

5/57 - 8/64

A. Goodpasture

and internal

6/58-6/63

Louis D. Pu

6/63 - 10/61 Thomas Keena

65 - 66

William Bright

DUCTION PROHIBITED

56 - 68

Outside Agent

Remon Alvarez' (resigned in Mexico)

etired)

Robert.

Feldmann

813)63.

Cabana. Opt repenting

Trial .

Liaison phone taps

1959 = 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

1950 - 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

1959 - 1960

1959 - 1960

Tonner Smith (outside, not retirce)

(Training rept resigned)

1960- 1961

John Brady (retired)

1962 - 1968 A. Godpasture

1961 - 1971 Charles Flick (outside TSD Staff Agent - retired) -

Liaison)

- surveillance

Frion 1954) Robert lelberg (retired)

3/54 - 4/59

Harry Kahoney

(retired)

4/59 - 1961

Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldnann

TSD Outside unit

4/53 - 12/63

6/59-4/54

Glen Widden (retired)

Joseph::. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed down

0000+70

19

---

## Page 8

14-00000

About nid 1962 (check date) LINVOY outside Mexi rept asked

for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Embassies.

(With tris forewarning, LIFEAT (unilateral coverage) was disconnected. However,

(as I recall, the Mexicans connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, and 1 lugoslav line. The basehouse listening post had

a live

monitor who made short sunnaries of interesting conversations for a daily

resume which was received each day arourd 8 a.n. (passed by Flick to Goodcasture

to get to Scott before 9.a.m.) Later (when the reel was

conpletely recorded)

full transcripts were typed and passed to the station in te

there was usually a time lag of a day or so.

Thos

Russien or another language besides Spanishe

me lay, however,

pts which had

vent out of the listening

post the day after the transcript

conversations on the reel)was

typed. These reels were

ther location where they were translated

and typed. In the case ple

e Russian translations, Boris Tarasoff usually ran

about a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume of

Russian conversations among the embers of the Soviet Eubassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried

to Boris by one of the people fron the Soviet Section or they may

have been carried to him by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

It to Herbert Manell) to take to Boris. (Herbert Maneli and his wife Barbera)

handled all of the processi:g

of Soviet transcripts. My job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned that the man calling himself Oswald

was

probably an American. However, here again there was

a backlag because the

photos were picked up

three times a week but the ones ricked up

were usually

for dates a few days prefiously because the doctor proce:sed the film on a

night time basis.. Photographs were made usually until one roll vas used but

later we got it changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operetors, cleared the camera each day whetier there was anylindex a full

roll of filn exposed. Instructions were

to cover office hours, photograph each

0200471

20

---

## Page 9

14-00000

-11-

GEORET

new Soviet and family, all foreigners and foreign licenee plates. Funan

error did occur but generally the agents were conscientious. The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sophisticated equipment (a pulse caera) but it

frequently develoced rechanical difficulties. Bob Zambarnardi and Scathar

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna l'ackay screened

the film inside the station.

I am certain that the Oswald call came to our attention from the

Soviet line.. It was picked up and taken to Boris lo

the caller was trying to speak Russian.

compare the photographs with

There were no copies of

es other than Spanish or English because Win

Scott could read only those two languages ard he rersonally screened the

an eat or as REPHIOPUCTN

transcripts for operational leads he wanted pursued.

0000172

21

---

## Page 10

14-00000

1C:

3

REPR

DUCTION PROMIBITED

(4) Jor Erb gate

1- LIMITED

2- LILYRIC

3. LICALLA

Phato Baces.

0000173

2.2

---

