024

r04-0233-40
aA

ae

23 Febmary 1962

MEMORANDUM YOR THE STATION

BUBJECT: Receipts and Other Documents Relating to Funds for
Underground in Cuba

1. Totay Dr. Miro's secretary delivered to me the receipts
and other documents pertaining to the funds provided monthly
to the Revolutionary Goups of the CRC for support of the
Underground, She said she had been cautoned by Dr, Alvarez
DIAZ that they must be locked up most carefully.

2, Examination of these documérta reveals that the Councid
financial section has kept complete records of amounts turned
over to groups of the Council and recdpts for same; that these
recdépta promise delivery in Cuba to the underground of the organi-
wation, report of deliver and return funds that cannot be delivexd :
(See recdpts Tab A) Tab B contains photostat of recdpts presented
by the MRR for the month of November 1961, for purchases of
equipment and would not apply to the months cf December 1961 and
danuary 1962 which were first two months 1a which CRC was pro-
vided directly with support funds for underground, However, the
last item io Tab B is a ictter of December 1961 to RESCATE delegate
Hendez Pirez from Dr. Hario del CANAL Ferrer, assistant Secrotary

general, describing bow $3500 poros were sent to

in Escambray (after exchanging from dollars to pesos at 5,50)and

other amounts to @¢hers inside, Apparently they were sent to

DARIO the Becretary General of RESCATE, thru Dr. COSTALES

and HILDA (who received the funds), Mention 19 made of lettera

of acknowledgment received and others that are expected.



3. Tab C contains various lettera from MDC to Dr. Alvarez
DIAZ, Finance Director of DRC enclosing photo copies of letters
received from Cuba intimating recdpt of “medicines", etc. There

ig a letter to CRC attention Alvarez DIAZ from
indicating how and to whom funds furnished him wore delivered.
Tab D is a report from Montecristi of the recoipte and disbursements
effocted by that group from October 1961 thru January 16, 1962,

4. Tab BE contains the reports of the 30 of November Group
and indludes receipts fee purchases made for the underground and
of telegrams and other messages indicating receipts in coded
phraseology such as"Mi vida e1 regolito del Nino llego completo ,

Besos y abrazos, Mercedes", (My dear the present for the child

arrived complete, Hug and Kisses Mercedes.)

5. Tab F contains letters of transmittal and acknowledgment
of receipt from different individuala,

6. Tab G is a report from Union Democratica, Movimiento
20 de May®, advising how dolivery was made and also two letters
jas to hie handling of funds furnished him.

from

Tab H has! ithaagy reports of November,

7

December and January,
8. Tab I contains the February report from Pascasro LINERAS

of FORDC, with phto copies of the telegram and letter received

by him acknowledging receipt.
9. Although there are not many actual acknowledgments from
wighBAnCuba included in this material, the sum total is such as

to give reasonable assurance of proper unage and delivery of the

am.
BY



|
i
i
|
i
'
i
‘

“Be

funda,
10. Copies of more acknowledgments from within Cuba will

be requsted in the next report from the Council,

