0256-10068.

wa

SENDER WILL GHEGK GLASSIF

TION TOP AND BOTTOM

[ tnetassirteo [| c.. tDeNTIAL”

| SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

- DATE. [imitate

——L
DIRECT REPLY — TPREPARE REPLY

+ | action
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE

Remarks:

J/-

Va ar

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

Poole

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

CL 6 Sé4*

FORM XO,

UNCLASSIFIED
ORM NO. 37 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL [ | SECRET

(40)


Oni:
BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

| eee

; o i

ONS onte Ve October 1973;

TIME u15 i

i

NAME _ Mitchell WerBell GRADE__N/A OFFICE N/A H

INCIDENT_Call requesting to speak TIME 1115 PLACE Powder Spring |
with Mr. Colby Georgia

tel (404) 943-3533

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: The Agency Operator advised that Subject was
calling requesting to speak to Mr. Colby.

Subject stated that he had just finished talking to "Air Chief
Marshall, Dawnee," Bangkok, Thailand and had some information thet
he wanted to pass to Mr. Colby. Subject was informed that the
Director was not available and that the undersigned would take a
message and insure that the Director was informed of his call.

Subject declined SDO's invitation to leave a message and requested
that the "Thai Desk" be informed of his call and then terminated
the call.

Files in SR&CD reflect that Subject is generally categorized as a i
con man, unscrupulous, wheeler-deeler and a promoter of grandiose
schemes, é : : '

x Cas y Ta: bere, Boll 5?

WS OCT PB pi thee —
co“ fweeo i
eae ie oeioltiaaelenieiel Be Fete A (201-AS 7910). |

ue PC ARR CC oe Bin Ae wer genes ony

aa Dear Pea Sfeuwey- C48e CeoscO |
ACTION TAKEN: Briefed Abct/ss, and OPS CTR/DO. Cae leon
a4

REPORTING OFFICER CHIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DISTRIBUTION:
ORIG: or aha GFr0S)
COPY:

Use Qaly

Eee. sD Adn

copy: per/s

= See en ee
R98 7 1798 Ses0cere PREVIOUS| ; wn

