# 104-10121-10010

## Page 1

104-10121-10010

comut focate

REQUEST EAR

PPROVAL OF LIAISON

TO

THROUGH:

C

Loyee Activity Branch, PSD/OS

The following. contact. is hereby

ESCIA EMPLOYEES

NAME

HOOSE

NAME

EXT..

DATE

SECRET:

CLASSIFICATION#

SO 2-5561

4 September 1962

Ms 400%

reported

requested

sto

beger rective on a

one- time

continuing

basi

NON: CIA EMPLOYEE

OFFICE

ISD/ CDS

OFFICE

NAME

MAT LACK, Doro the K.

Intereo%

NAME

EXT -

OFFICE

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

Assistant Chief of Staff,

Intolligence

RGANIZATIO

Alien

Affairs Collection Di

BUSINESS ADDRESS

NAME 1i4,

EXT..

OFFICE

NAME:

EXT

OFFICE

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON, COMMENTS. AND

KNOWN

BIOGRAPHICAL

INFORMATION

Renewal - 23 March 1961 - SECREI

1p 5 SEP 1962:

Subject was clearedrior access

sito

cisscified

incormation up

• to and:

cluding

listles

CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSED

→ TOP SECRET

XOX SECHET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSI

02

TSD/ISS

FFICE::

ExT. James ?. O'COMioi./

SECURITY APPROVAL

Distribution:

1 - Addressee

1 - TSD/CDS

1 - TSD/LSS

2754001

FORM

10.58

123 USE PREvIOUS

EDIT

Autor

alonE intud toe liaison contact between thel

Indisti

a CA iniorigation may be

Hated. Ties is not author.

disclosed e

it"

foa

Secrets the

concur

rins.

t::

scritact

No expire one:

Pierre

WE.л

" corence rec is cesired, a written

request

sould de sunded to trist

OS SEP C:.

For the Dictor of Security

Date

Chief, Personnel Security Division

SEORET

CLASSIFICATION

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1111

---

