[HOBO 410178 saaee
"EP "GS RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YoU.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &
DISPOSITION SECTION, RM GE-S8, ON OR BEFORE
“DATE INDICATED,

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE’ CALL EXTENSION
00 WOT REMOVE THIS FORM

BO 1790 van ese vious Brrr,

Requester:

Please return thig
; Teference to RID/ARD/RCU
; immediately after use,

4
|
—

; BNO. £6 - wAo
SPACE NO. $76.9 ¢

| FILE NO, oe - 6. ves/3
DOCUNENT.2/4 cee snece, te FE 2

: FOLDER NO. .? *
ee: BetstseeatndaiatseateieUt
: ; BOXNO, >.

CO) ConFtDENTIAL <C] MRNA Guctassirien

RID/ARD/RCU G-E-58
scat O10 ere SECRET.

Und


104-10181-10178

INSTRUCTIONS aa
TO. ACTION JRANCH

PRIOR TO FILING ©. 7
Fi ha Sect. 2. da ta:
flap and forest ‘te Tf file no. and title shown are not
proper, insert proper file no. below
beat and forward docuzent to RID/AN.
oy
oy
nw
a
a
oe)
we
~
| Tieomcr FICE HOMES PRMARY COST
~ NOE y §SO- 6-40 2
SOEUMENT BATE “DOCUMENT noNBER
| i RMMA —-€0862
: [7 Mar 63
TESS 6100 “feign SECRET va

te

‘

¢


104-10181-10178

DISPATCH

1, Attached, for addressees, are copies of Subject. recorts dated

22 February and 2 February 1963. z
a, transttted for Task Force, as provided b y Subject, are attachnents
(1) Jamary-February 1963 issue of Infornaciones do Cuba, (1) Revolucion dated

25 Fetruary 1963, and (1) Playa Ciron envelope,

Attachnentay?'~* +~--
Herewith

Distrstutiont .
2 = C/TFW, w/att Contact Rerorts and (20 envelopes
1 = C/m, w/att © eo UA/3
1 = CG, WAVE, w/att * i

1. ce JNCEX-Y

zlpl


104-10181-10178 .. .

| cord
: . i “BAB Jorts G@ “aRILA9 dof ‘ :

‘ On 25 Feb 63, Paniczs end I Picked

- *s -benorantum for the

»f
dat Tendezveue point ‘and xe rove te a darke

j up er

: ~ + «.area of _the etty rhore meeting. was held. Ke sic:
Te, fan

NOTED. Tiem: 2270-8245

G:earit-)ptoritea the follexing into:

i. Irina TRAFOTE de VALDES, wife of Ramiro ¥4up: S$, Sea Gohema-
cion in Habana is scheduled to leave for Habuna on 1 Xar éx,

SY 201-334283
203 EangetA Vics Perez, Cubun G=2 in Kexice told s Group of

jaw fe 3342 boane in the Cubana plane on 25 Fen that he hae been in Pregue
1

on two occasions, net FEG 63
‘| de suf SZ vteree 6 AMGICe, Hare cary

3. Nardalensx: ARCTA, ixtoan wile of Humberto ey tol
COREA ARCTA,

Abie ial)
on the rkone that Antonie sree ee & wercuce for hare

(yr eried CARGIA re sane and GARCTA tol (Lu G9) that he ata zat
2
have a mescage fron snyhoeg for Negdalera CARCIA,
el

4+ On 25 Feb 65, (E-9)enid that tro valtien left Lexico for fnbana.

7 Fhe ightest’-o; ret denti al tee i
reise Righ Sh Meters ne gta oor tttonsie, Prortgs ty

Put tvo confidential reports in the gouch

sald that MenveiAgar

in Eis vrerence,

° ; :
(8)e0 d thot Pitur, ina, stewardess and tro others were

arrested and ecnt to a fara formerly ovned by BAPTIST where they

will srend from 1-2 years, Tho three were charge? with contraband
oreratiors on KAPA-MEZY flight. Acecrdirg, to the report, 10,000
Sollare worth of sewels were found in the tack of a@ plane cect
tad jetate

which returnec to Havana from Kexico. Tt arpears tha

were not teken off fF eos So Et -herico au rlunnet, te

we
Hat

fo, Mexican Piochenist, ert vexico for
Give stinstiice for

Af fabana on 25 Feb 63. 1aRT iKEZ told Eb )eree be hered to be rared.
dabana on 25 Fe! igred to be runed

pe Pos
-$ohorary Consul in Santtore ée cube Ree a Speniard is currently

Jeo) aleing the job. Accerdirg to 2 a2, the Spaniaré is not iz

the Covltts €00d graces arg he hopes to Eeplecc hin,

Teel Newticoetele a tced

: eg > TINB LE
Gry Bite 21a - Ses Sera



104-10181-1

%

0178 aaa eae
Pigtatery
‘ 7. (1s9)keo hats’ nothing ef deportanse re RUTALCO2T veeit

| from Cuban Alps. (25 Feb the following croup hne erffee on
board the Cubana plane: Antonio "ico" GARCIA, Mansel Vi uATdx

\ Perdz, LOKI fusshio AZCUE Lopcz, Eenigno C°STELLAR anehes,

Anires ARKCKA Raros urd (-2)'l The greup ves very angry beeauce of

‘+ the new stanp that the Cuban Tov't is uning at the airport. All
paseports are new being etarped by Inmicraticn offictale ac followas

! Sal lO A CURA or LLEGO DE GUTA. Thic starp te placed on the pace where:

! iii the Subjecte photo ia fouad, The group said that as soon ts the

| Ambarsador arrives he should equawk loudly to the Kexican Govt about -

: eH i ag 934089 .
f 7 8. 1 ACU Lopez, Cuban Cohsvl, wos upset becarne nov all
i
1
!

Cuban cables pane through Kew York, Ie remarked: "Les ectan dando
todo en bandeja de Plata", Dee FER 7

: cack ent
9+ On 25 February 1963, cote “Sc1o77¢40, sinter in lew of Cral Lacars
zhle® .

4 ria)
CARDEKAS cal) ed suronorrors Costa Min bendejttoy inrorort.

m

t fA SOLORZANO is the god-mt per oe me of SINOBAS' children,  SihGe.ANO

a

| Wi also reaarked. thz.
M, CARDENAS, canrot understand what is the matter with theCuban Vovt

leotigg the Enheesy "go to pot", t.c. lack of pereornel ¢rcente yr

» who is a partner of Cuauhtecce

INVighER

tay?

adecato, ARGUEDLES, according to COLORZAIO, satd the Cutan Govt

officials " no ee dan cuenta lo qve significa Kerico®, Eusebto
9
AACUE, who wan vith beer éurine hia convercation with her at

her gas ntation, defended SITC3AS rayirg "Lonetros en cu edad lo
ACL NAMES CPAnAWD

hariamos neor, es la culpa de X

1 a é:
ab to. 6-3 torte the following preaurenéa® fo0 co; fon of

va cion, two copies of Cuben Embaesy 2ullatin - # 19/20 ert Evy of
¥ 1 icc + . Fy eT ifn

a Mineral Negro a book of poetry by the Haitian, gone ie

i maceaseeeeerrerrierears '
i 31. See REX re... re (de conments on Xionm $id!

i 3

e- Aderne, Ey. <47¥
beam nai oe ‘
‘ Se Tk a


104-10181-10178

ran {
. yet tee a ‘ ‘ - ad
Lot “ Irtea ante pefring . ot 1s g Thee 25 ae poy, ; a ; o
. Vierrea a Cuba, (neg ne fos (" Atcuaet besa ochar Molina” | . mo,
. tee . . y = = ty . : .
€igo) wneeenmennmety ' *! o¢.dn Soty, ineas un . a
aes : : "Pena dir gn iNscrortabien, : .
—f 7 wo. j i Que Subssg Tile len, no Alea. i,
ar GA ORC hen y H . o ‘CO Corres ten To nue rea, . i .
J a } ! con ‘dia THR ada ge Cube eg . , .
' Shute com. : Reese tesiununes : nn .
iv ae H Forsona) Adecunds ee 3 . * acl,
. ' . : | : Sabllicag # APC CE ne 1 7 . us
: ft’ * cuenta To gue Sisnis. . aan . a on .
. ! réstepn! ; : - : .
: + yo “azcue, en Cefensa des. a sO wots . -
ny { bas. "neh otrog Sn eu edad 16 . se Fo
* . . Te mee meee ae | + hardsinog Poor, la culpa _ Qf
‘ votm * oF! del ururex, Urge Enbejadon . | . ,
. . : ooF “a
. . . te 1’ t Ne a a, ~
. ‘ ra | Cada! veg FAYOrCS trabag : , * .
. ; - ) Ofhetaten gg Cuba perme : ! ‘ .
' . 1 . lan Perigo d trabajo .c
. . 3 : “y beens Lempre ¥ cuandg : =
: ‘ Concedes las via orrespon. :
“ og ! : painted (antes era l revés, . ! i
: - i Prine Tabajo ete, lueco vo i;
' Vigna) eee aot ' .
- . . af, | ~~ Sree, ; ! =
. . Soe | 4 t .
{oc - . ce,
c } :
: ° . i - . :
: oo - ‘ aa ee
bon we ene



104-10181-10178

t : . ~,
ow = te t fe - ‘
wae oa 25 de Feb. 6. | Se habla poco de Letencourt : :
ne €ijo cue nilenneee j nolamsnte algdn comentazio ‘- : : oa ‘ ee
-  Miapihsadt eb fontigcg ae o[.  '% sim dsj ortaneda a boric del | . oe
Gets al Consul he Sot i avién estacionndo de "Cubane : - = oe"
tet ; wud scrorarsg , Comaundo ensé on el mi:no, : - ‘

, 4 : ;
£0) ee “ites cispatioy nico, ancue, Youn, Albert,

y no bien u ato. op _ Cartcllar, armena, Cran irri . ‘
“ ewww - ‘dacién colectiva, cellos que . .
y ae : ‘apone migrseién de iénice, , mY
” Aenongne Pilar y otros do: . =a e Biorec e Tite eed cote .
Eretos lisbana,anticua fineal + ...s7¢.gupyat, Tan pronto lle-ue : 7 , . .
ve Batista (hoy (anja del |” A seeder why que clevar . . mT
jucblo) concenis de uno a . una protesta ul Prenidcnte, : . / OL,
C09 Shoe contrabande 10,000] - éL-capitén ¢ la rave, filo- os , , st
dé3lare y joyas hacia Mex, eé6fico y sonrriente " slgtin- ~ : :
. we ewweeenee . » Qin ceca sellitos scrén un . “
¢ telderon 2 valijes, la , . . Gigno testinonio...etc, ete! a a .
eclpnda lleva confidencial - 8 todos muy complacicos por. . : :
Ft ee eee ne a eae ew ee a oe ‘ - ¢ lo que c4jo cl Capitén, . .
. sphnvlé Nacdntena preguntandal | Gran rableta de Ancve, a ao
por ico "que le trae -un ‘ t ahora los enbles pasan a
preesdo de Cuba" , este me . través IY. “les estdn dane: .
j lo nieca. "Ho tiene ningin | do todo en bandeja de platat et .
-recado de nadie pn Mapdie | Sc aatatetatatate stall Cd ‘ . . .
. read Hie para Hagdas | . Ey sre aon ES Cloyd Lo oO _
Cate mewnn ae ee ejer ee ; oe toe i +
‘ . : . . ; «. . .- ni at
‘ .) . ‘ :
| . "4 . . . . . oa
. af . « . .
ae : so . moet
. . . ‘ ’ ‘
~~ seems seam a ca re ee Stes


104-10181-10178

Viernes 22 de “ey,

vuelo Cub.una leeds Montea=

ico’ "todavia no lcs
renbraren nueve

gador' 4

Cunchuténoe Ciircenng a enn
porar brobatle li egad hija
fuldiao, i .

214c6 otro Biplomitice
cubano (mulato) wn trénsite

Lecaron 2 vulijan

tanbién Cras fdeo(sin hijo

y Clara Porcet__'

Jueves: en in terde
feunién de todoa para
AUPOCRITICA. no se volvié
& tocar el Anci¢ente con

hertianas de Fidel

me he ee a as

|
}

Sem sa tee ce ee 2+ eet,

gyrnuc
Enbae

a

an at eee ee tina on cobra
padre Dolerc aconpadand
al Pregigenteydaje a, Zurep-
Vereno finch vonridera
muy inpowiw.ne gor de
CUon Pre Noe; wo pedir
Pre. idense vige a Suropa.
le entre ud ine carts. al

‘ Presidente énate fijaste?

. A
US EE ee

tay é rarer a
Y berun azeue Lene nuevo.
Enbajador, Lechgna pasard
por iudxieo pur cespecirse. -

 Randre del fo no te cone
sidera intecrse a la Revolu
cién. .

Bolivia a ci
wee wee

Estabn el Agr. Cultural
de ber usU. Sento apenade
no lo caludé) gtnda yo con,
el cc Polonia | oe


104-10181-10178 toe

belles el E gar eae

i papa merimesase v
aeeeeerran oN
Neverentun for the Record : ’ :
plait 211-9) O\ ies
H 2? Feb 63, 1 wet(breantzas)ae Tendesvoie posse
i and we drove to darkened street behind xy hone, where re held ate,
| WO SECURITY PROLLESS NOTED. Sixes 2200-2700"! ag qd I fen wert +
| to ay house here. w thlked at great Rength with PARIGRS _ ve
$ (1}'e assicnamt, ‘
! ot. i  LITMNILA~9 proviéed the following informations

ot .
1. On 21 Ped 3,(2-9 attenaded the inauguxration of exposition at the
, CM Elie ol}

elles Artes, Prec See 4
ft : Eva :
HERZSTROA end rede ie Zacedaelso.UL-9 gue i
he yor Feterning to Cuba and would ne henpy $0 takesa lettonr with
: : UG 4 AOITA IL F Regie W SOR),
" for here) At 1645( L-} visitea Wo IN FOR Opti home. 55 Li Boz
o
NORA toLé(7-9) thet cke wan vary worried about OG tees with te AB

Hy recall of Soviet trooper,
said that ske told 2X42
to tell Tree, Lopez “ateor t2rt rhe rot proud of teing a

Nexiew.e nog,

foun bee

~~ €6060-02-.the-Gov'ts ANELCATING ated ts She cited the ectvivities at

the atrnert as an exanple, Ske told MAI to dell ECPSs that ara
terrera que te vedea t2 inpsge Cerocer la verdai", 22 TA NORA tla

: 6-3) thot she sav LOPEZ ! :

to her in a Sereastic xarner: 999 felicite... no cres

: (Fider}
Te enizo “p.

teos after thie arg he seid that followin:

&

Ze", no lo tuvieron 0 aac precente pasnta eri is,

mlentras Mexico sontentendolo principio "no intervencien,
DE Ls WORA data shat hor fathes

FATCe LOPUG Meseee on hia t-in te Surope, py La.

Sen, KCRENO Sanchez considers it very irpartant

Sree pent ee —

> STAR bE
yo 76-7054

(2IRy


104-10181-10178 ‘ : i ts

‘ arrandoA dh
phe Service Pvlletin - Can 63. Eason SOF A. A Seesesn occ Burtere Beenie:
1

eefor Eurcpu.

Axstassador in Lexico tory ferewell to LePEZ when

eald that eke delivered a letter to the

DS LAY

eevee

=aiave referred to

a & 2) and fe eds
mo # (1es)etbs tha
Raron SIF0BAS theslys "Ss un nino". FEBGS > :

2. (& TITANIA 2 sonta that Lusebio ALCJE, Cuben Cone, said that « pow

% And was coning to Kexico, AZCUS said thet LUCHSCA would cone to

xico but only to say queteze hedSee leaving for his post in the

a aol 336242
a

fenir Xo BIO Perc, forar lst Spe Lexica, urd

Uni ee Bationa,

3M aacez mica ae
G-2 zan, told ALCTE that he did mot believe that 6) 2 intepruted
into the Revolution, e no te conciijera integrago ais Revotueton" LEY

4, Pedro LARA sunos has been trensferred to chine (adrenty hic ticket)

Listed in tha Forvign

a DEL EGeny Fe

S$. On 22 ze 63, artontbNowesceno, Me Ae
CIT Cony

ecerfupaiia- 874 cloee friend Rev gyrived ir “evico froa Vat
cee Col . j
Geis raat to Cal "Tcdavia no noxbraron nuevo

CHE i raication thet a hex Arb rill be nazed to Mowico,

Recon Ee Dor FEAR

28 ATS we. eo. e&

£ by aut span! a At IGE safe Lig
Nee 5, A Gvban courter (negro) arr“ved on 22

1
i

arrived forthe Erb in Mexico,

7. fhe wife of ANSTET-1 arrived in Nexico on 22

+ Clara PORSET de C¥ERRERI, Guten, arrived on



104-10181-10178 . =

‘ fae ‘ : : SEI Er even
: OO ATE ATTA
Ciben iricad zie
went ae on 14 Feb to try and cet MRLENK peretscion for
ALE INES SOT PEE 6?
her father, Dr. i pases
2)
+o -CORAL'e nother. arrived in Mexico atart 6 arnthe ago and did not spturn,

DOPAL arrived at the Srbassy looking for Teteca FR because @

Hexican friend of hers, who war with her knows PROEZILA and FROLA tou
him that Dr. DOBALwoul3 have ro becker leaving Cuba at any tice. | :
PRONEZA told hin this on a previous. occutton,. DOR.L ie violently anti- A
regire, Elea DOBAL, who it very attractive, aeoor4ing to(Lns) ta wareied

+. to @ jai ale player by the name of GUARA. GUAPRA fe Spanish.

10, ado vided the following pavers,pamphlets, books etc?

Rovalueton gna Foy = dated 22 Feb 6. (Liaw)
ra Publo velista (Ahn :.)

Cataverne Resurrectan = Taller Graftco ‘Popular (Aba)
Playa Giron ~ rape ete for study re contest = nonuzént (atte a

v cuta- #9 (big)

Boheria = 15 Feb ne o(tes) i a
‘ . “4 :

CHS

Fo tenijan ras arvas que la



104-10181-10178

‘

; TEE eu: vey

7 fp Allene teas
2. es) identified the protograoh ae) renXborn, Given “friend vi

GaN
Te Embarsy on 14 Peh to try et AXKIZKK pe on for

7 Citi
her father, Dr. BOPAL in Habara to ois to Ranteos eof ene se

-DOL'e mother. arrived in Mexico about 6 menthe ago and Shia not return.

DORAL arrived at the Enmbarsy looking for Teteca PRIEVZA Lecauce a
Xexican friend of hers, who war with her knows PROH‘ZA fast TROZZA teh

hia that Dr. DOBALwould have ro trouble leaving Cuba at eny tire.
FRONSZA told him this on a previous occugéon, DORAL te violently antis i

vegive, Elea DORAL, who in very attractive, according to &9)ta married
to a jai olai player by the name of GUARA. GUANA is Spant: ane 3} “a
10. nye provided the following pavers,pamphlets, books etc?

Reralucton atid Toy = dated 2? Foo 63. (Ld )-
rora - Pablo rebate

No tenian mas armas ave la a

Calaveras Resurrectan ~ Taller Grafico ‘Popular (424.

Playa Giron — naps ete for otudy re contest - ronucant (Glace

as
FL54

od
