# 104-10429-10085

## Page 1

T104-70429-100857

SEBRAT

29 October 1975

MIENURANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Sccurity Analysis Group

SUB.IECT

Documents Relating to the Kennedy

Assassination

1.

In response to your request, the undersigned and

Michael E. Schneeberger reviewed the

eightcen volumes of

covert security file

#262 622 relating to the custodial

handling of Yuriy Nosenko.

In addition to the eighteen

volumes, various unnumbered files relating to site plans

for the

various safe sites used in this case and adminis-

trative files relating to expenses incuried and other

miscellancous items were also reviewed.

2.

As a result of these revicws, the attached documents

Were

located which make mention of Nosenko's being debriefed

concerning Lee Harvey Oswald.

Additionally, a memorandum

datcd.1l March 1964 from the District Field.

Office. (DFO) was

also located which gives a summary of information which

Nosenko provided to DFO personnel during casual conversation.

One of the items in this

memorandum is the lengthy discussion

of Nosenko's knowledge of Oswald.

Eyed A Perain

lymond M. Reardon

Security Analysis Group

Atts

Document Number

1355-1061

for FOlA Review on

MAR 1977

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063994

SECHET

581-0351 1x11)e, entry no. 0702

F81-0351 (xx1u.)g, entry

10o. 1218

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

6 July 1964 Report

On 2 July Nssis. NORIE,

WESTRELL and BENNETT visited the site.

arrived at noon in a

did so until 1345 hours,

discussion a Norman Mihail-vich BORODIN

(phonetic) and his family.

→was there SR Division

called and pressed the matter even harder.

then returned to

Headquarters and came back to the site again at about 1645 hours. He

expects to remain about hours.

July an interrogation of Subjuct by RYAN look place from

1230 to

1530 hours.

Discussion dealt with

the OSWALD case.

On 4-5 July all custodial precedures were routine. Subject did

"bum" a cigarette from a DrO man (Subject is getting smokes

during interrogation sessions).

Division doesn't plan to visit Subject on 6 July according to

latest reports.

8 July 1964 Report

no media

No visitors at the site on 7 July.

Subject ate all meals,

given a bath in the evening.

All custodial procedures normal and

routine.

13 July 1904 Report

Custodial procedures were routine during the workend of 11-12 July.

14 July 1964 Report

On 13 Ily Case Officer

linterrogated the subject from

1530 hours to 1720 hours subjects. of discussion unknown.

All

custodial procedures routine and noral.

No case officer visits to the site are expected today.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

27 July 1054 Report

No visitors to the site over the weekend. Subject has been avidly

writing and reading, smoking about a pack of cigaretiss per day. All

custodial procedures routine.

on 27 July 1964, case officer KiAN interviewed Jibject from 1330

to 1830 hours, discussing_OSHAD case.

fuuject had written on many

sheets d paper, mostly answers to questions put to hiin by the case

officers.

RYAN advised that one of these papers was 3 lengthỳ. lutter

from Subject to Pete (BAGLEY), although the contents vere not known

to RYAN yet.

Subject was given a book entitled,

"Damocracy in Unions"

yes-

terday.

No visitors are expected on 28 July, althougi, it is anticipated

that both the Doctor and RYAN will come to the site tomorrow (29 July).

Subject is in good spirits.

Custodial procedures arenormal and routine.

At the request of Os/L0G, Tom RYAN vas requested to initiate action

with Sk/DOB to provide some relief for the cook. Erna has been working

a 6 day week since early April with Ed SANNIR's wife filling in the

seventh day.. RYAN was requested to obtain the services of a cook and

a helper to work at lcast 2 days a

week and no more than 3 days. RYAN

will advise.

29 July 1964 Report

No visitors to site on 28 July. Sulject given bath in evening.

All site custodial procedures routine.

30 July 1961 Report

On 29 July the Doctor visited Subject from 1015 to 1115 hours.

He pronounced Subject to be in good condition, although Subject still

clains ve are taking pictures of him. 'the Doctor recolmended no

changes in routine.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

30 July 1964 Report

Case Officer RYAN interrogated Sulject from 1530 to 1800 hours,

29 July.

The discussion concerned the OSWALD case, the method (s)

by which private citizens in USSR get firearms and training and they

lalked about some Americans recruited in Paris

for the KGB.

All custodial procedures routine and normal.

31 July 1964 Report

On 30 July 1964, all custodial procedures were routine and normal.

Case officer is expected to core to the site on 31 July 1'26k.

3 August 1964 Report .

On 31 July 1964 case officer RYAN interrogated Subject from 1100

to 1600 hours.

They discussed "Intourist"

, KGB personalities, USSR

war plans and KGB activities during the

"Cuban Crisis". Subjoct.dill

believes we are laking picturcs of him.

At 2015 Subject came to the door of his room, said he wanted to

In effect, he wanted to get something

could talk because he knew the

off his chest.

caincias and recorders were not

operative at that hour.

He launched into a monologue

about his mother,

father, sister, brother and uncle.

Became very cmotional, saying that

he was misunderstood, that he rcally wants to remain in the US.

of his KGB work, recruitment and techniques. Finally at 0015 hours,:

1 August, he went to bed.

Remainder of 1 August was uneventful. Sunday 2 August also quiet.

All custodial procedures routine.

SECHET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

1/262 622

5 August 1964

Week of 27 - 31 July 1964

the exception of social amenities and a review of the notes SUBJFCI had

made since his last interview with the Case Officer, the interrogation

consisted of a review of the OSWALD case.

transcript the Case Officer had typed from the 3 July 1904 tape.

Case Officer (Thomas RYAN) questioned SUBJECT on why KGB did

certain things such as run an investigation of OSWALD, check into his

Narine experience, etc.

On 29 July 1964 (a.m.) the doctor made his weekly exunination of

SUBJECT gave a brief run-down of his personal life before

his father died in 1958, said he

was being kept in confinement because

he is trying to help us

we are still taking pictures of him but

the clicking has become quieter.

On 29- July 196% interrogation ran from 1530 hours to 1802 hours.

The OSWALD case was discussed again and the

Case Officer started a

discussion on how people obtain and keep guns in their homes in Russia.

He also wanted to reconcile the fact that SUBJECT at one time

OSWALD was a poor shot but on another occasion said he was a good narksman.

The Case Officer then went into a discussion of a Paris based, American,

U. S. Government employee who was recruited by the KGB.

This individual was

still in Paris in January 1964. He would make documents available to KGB so

they could be photographed and returned to the vault on the sane day•

SUBJECT had no identifying data on this Acrican.

The discussion concerned

the American's contacts, station location, travel routes, etc.

On 31 July 1964 interrogation starled at 1416 hours.

discussion concerned the Intourist Organization and the extent to which

it seives as a cover for KGB cople, KGB war chergency plans,

extent to which these plans were activated at the tine of the U. s./Cuban

The last item discussed was the ODiSSA case.

ODeSSA is the code name

fur an agent named

]who was scheduled to go to Tokyo in April 1964.

Interrogation concluded at 1824 hours.

JJR: jins

SECRET

-1-

---

## Page 6

13-00000

• SEGRET

#262 622

The Case Officer then started discussing the case of a Bulgarian,

GIORGIEY, who was arrested by the Bulgarians in Moscow in 1963. SUBJECT

obtained his information on this case from SHERAPIN and Alexander PAPOVICH

in 1963..

SUBJECI said GIORGIEV was invited to Moscow in 1963 at the suggestion

of the Bulgarian MVD.. He was settled in the Metropole Hotel and kept

under TV surveillance.

While he was in Moscow his rooms in Bulgaria

were searched and evidence was found (radio) which was sufficient for

the Deputy Chief of the Bulgarian MVD to go to Moscow, arrest him and

return him to Bulgaria for questioning and trial or court. martial:

SUBJECT went to Bulgaria in 1961 to help them on American cases.

He stated there was no suspicion of GIORGIEV at that time.

GIORGIEV

had worked in the United States and was believed to have been recruited

at that time.

The Bulgarians, on confronting GIORGIEV in the Metropole Hotel,

said, "George DUVAL, you're under arrest".

At this point the interview ended and SUBJECT asked the Case Officer

to congratulate the boys and wish them all a good holiday for him.

did this when the Case Officer said he did not think he would be back

on 3 July-

Friday, 3 July 1964 - The Case Officer wanted to discuss the KGB

involvement in the OSWALD case.

SUBJECT. said he did not know that OSWALD went to Moscow from Helsinki

but that OSWALD's visa application was processed in the normal manner

and KGB had a copy of the visa application.

Russian Embassies, since

1960, have authority to issue visas in three to five days after application.

OSWALD applied orally, and later in writing, for Soviet citizenship.

A copy of the written request went to KGB.

A copy of this request was

sent to the Supreme Soviet after OSWALD slashed his wrists.

KGB studied reports on OSWALD prepared by Case Officer KRUZNOF and

decided OSWALD was not normal so he was of no interest to KCB and has

not considered desirable for Soviet citizenship.

His file was sent to

Minsk because he was to live and work in Minsk.

SECRET

-6-

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

#262 622

The American Embassy was not informed of his suicide attempt becaus

he was going to leave the country and he was not an important person.

While OSWALD was in Minsk he received a stipend from the Red Cross.

KGB had information on Marina OSWALD only after she announced her

intention to marry him. A record check, neighborhood, and employment

check on her showed that she was a simple, normal, not clever person,

and she was not in the Young Communist League because she did not pay

her dues.

Some investigative reports said she was stupid.

KGB did not consider using her in any capacity.

She has an uncle who is a Lieutenant Colonel in the Minsk militia.

She must be illegitimate because she does not use or know her father!s."

The only surveillance ever put on OSWALD was an agent and there was ::

never any on Marina.

After their marriage her pay was increased to impress the foreigner

she married.

She was not asked to stay in Russia after marriage because he was

to leave and Russians believe & husband and wife should be together

(unless one is a high level person) .

Neither of the OSWALDs got any briefing or instructions before

leaving Moscow®

In addition to KRUZNOF and the SUBJECT, DUBAS and MUSHKOV were

the KGB Agents in Moscow who knew of the OSWALD case before the

assassination.

A Department Chief, JONOKOV, and five other KGB Case

Officers knew of the case after the assassination.

KGB considered OSWALD an American citizen because he had been

denied Soviet citizenship.

KGB did not know any of OSWALD's personal contacts in fussia.

Some of the Intourist people OSWALD dealt with were KGB Agents

or contacts.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

1/262 622

OSWALD's case was not the same as

other Americans

in Russia because

he uns considered not

normal and he was not

conside.ed

a defector as

werC MARTIN and MIrCHELL.

SUBJECT heard that OSWALD applied in Mexico for return to Russia.

Word went from Mexico to the First Main Directorate to the Second Min

Directorate.

Second Main Directorate told First Main Directorate that

he had tried suicide in Russia, married a Soviet citizen,

and was considered not normal so the request should be rejected.

SUBJECT was then shown some photoglaphs and he waid le had seen a

ricture of Marina OSWALD in a magüzine.

A long list

of names was read and shown to subster but he failed

to identily any of them.

Many of the nanes were of poople in Minsk.

JJB: jms

SECRET

-8-

---

## Page 9

13-00000

(

SECRET

TO BE OPIUND BY ADDRESGEE ONGY

DIstrict Fiold Office

11 March 1064

IZURATION FOR: licadguntiers

SURJECT

7262 622 C 910/1

1.

Rescronce in nade to loadmartore letter di assignmant in

this cace datod & larch 196h.

?.

Durlie the period 20-23 Rebuny I9ot, tile SUBJACI was

under the protective custody of Specint. Agent Stanley C. LACil,.

George R. BREwER and Alried B. liceAlicY, suracT voluntarily

nunched information concorning his backcround and aculvities,

as vell as other information of operational interest, the subtunce

of which in ret forth in the succocaint Iragranho.

It is to be

noted-that.at.no.tim did.auv.of.tho. above-naned agcnto solicit.

any of this informacion or mnle Inquirion of the SUBJECT regarding

ny of the matters discusced by him.

sulanch opontaneougly

related

these incidenis in casual convergation during leine perious ond

mile chroute with the agents to and fron blaces of entercainment cic.

In most cases newspapero, maunzines and TV programo promied the

SUBJECT to make concuts rolutive in these muttein. Following 1s

a summariantion of this Information:

SPONIS, 1IOBBIES

(a)

On 20 February 196 turnCr diccloood that he enjoys the

following sporto: rocklall, hockey 111 61.11301d9.

FORDIGN TRAVEL

siunityst the

(b) Me also rcycaled that he han previously l son in the; Untied

Stateo while enrouto to Cuba, Venezuln and other Inüin Anerican

hid hasit one time or mocher during his cervice with the

KiB vinited and worled on operatioul projects fur the Soviet Union

In practically all. of the countries of Brope; hoover, he has never

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

7252 622 © 50/1

travaled to the lar Bast, excopt while handling

an ncent tho was

active ngainst the Japanece.

Ile (BURJICT) stayed li the furllo

Islands nich are within sighe of Jogan.

This vas in 1919.

caid that he was active in to ricking up of excnto by plane and

chiy in this arca.

WAVELY BACKGROUND

In the latter part of the evoning

on this came

20 Fobruary 1904, the SUBJECT stated that his facher vas a member

of the Comunlot Central Comttice, one of the fir: nemers of

the Commiet Party,

and that he had craat rempect

for his rachei.

The SULJECI alsO Indicated that his fasher rao a shipbuilder and

later becano one of the firao to organize and cou ny the Aussian

Atchie Euercy Plant.

It san curing tho latter oculvity that ha

(the sUBJECT's father) und thiee other officiole cons in contact.

with radiation, which atfocied his futher's liver and a few joars

Jater at the uge of 5h his father died of cancer.

The SUBJACK

sent on to stace that his father, being a vory pioilront conunist,

was civen treatment for this caucci in a rpocial hospital which 1s

located In the hille outside of the city of Moscow,

and during his

tenure In this hopplial the farily revided vich his facher.

lad five roon livine quitere beside the room in which his father

vas confined. This m'ivilore, he mid, is only giron to the especially

promineut ViPs of the Conunist Farty,

indicating that his incher one

oue of the top men in the Cormunist Party.

JULITARY AUTIVITY

(a) The SUBJECT revenled that in 19l9, nè che nge of 16, he vas

a laval Cadet.

He was called into the reivice beiore cindutting from

wat is our equivalent of a high school.. In lad inlen Int in the

Iighting in the Black Sia Arca Miere he

dearlbed Mind-to-hand combat

with Cermans, clined he was wounded, and becuuse of his bravery he

tan arariled the Sovict Order ledal und the Orici of Cialin.

stated this vas unusual for a person of his age and cuined him cicat

respect.

At the end of the far he had no more destic for military life

although his superiors tried to keep him

in the military

Instead, he

went for four yeure to the Institute of Forcion Telntions and learned

the melion languoge. Uyon gaination, a ann cace to hin and told hin

that he ind a jou liucd up for him.

lie slated that this actinlly tas

more like being nirred to tnko thin mriichlar job wich thined out

SEGRET

•02-

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECRET

78262 622

C SD/1

to be with the laval Intelligenee.

He claimed that there vere tro

military Intelligence organirations ut

the tine, the laval and the

Ground Force milliary type.

IN SEAL IN MESSIA

(e) on 23 Februy 19Et, nu DuRaBel approaches the table for

the evening meal, he noted that the Tire magazine line on the coffce

table in the living room had a picture of Inric OSWiLD.

don he hit the table wich his flot and snid,

"I feel that I could

have atomned OStAD", du this potud Spocial Agent Stanley C. LACH

asked him

"hori". lie proceeded to sinüe that he (subuncr) was head

of the MCB Tourint and Visitown Cection mich kopt control over the

nctivitles of OSAID while he ras In the Covict Unir.

the tine, OSlID tas of no spacint concorn on Juiciort to the KGB

liccause he lacked intelligence background.

when he aunlied

coi scimiscion to lonve Musein, they (WB) under his (SUbJECT) dJicctior

Inforned USAID that he rould have to wike his appliction though che

amropriate ciannels of the tinie Intment, who in mun would request

his tolcuse fron the luosian cruniciparlo in handlini. of vicas. This

he cuid tas nll done for proacanded shoy gurgacer.

vince that if they rcally mmied to colcase OSMAID, it could have been

done on the syur of the nonent, but since osiud had noching and vas

not worth anything, they dcclued thai this vas an omortunity to show

the Anerican State Department that they did not nind releasing Individ-

unlo if they amplica for rolcare through the appropitate chancle.

Irior to this application for releace of OSWALD,

the CUBJECT stated

that since ho ms of no rarticular intercut to them nud there vas

nothing in loscow that thoy could we him for or plaer him inco, they

accided that they voild send ObtAID to liluck where he would be placcd

in a laccoly vorkine on rudlos in the hre that sons tininine in the

lectrical und cloctronic ficld ninte rueult in hio dovcloment inco

un cloctronico enginner; horever, he chored no earability in thin ricla.

The subJect then piaied that li was just nù this period, before sending

oStLD to binsk, tint a very cimuce thing happened.

gone declued to co to the hoüel there DulLD tan stagine to see if he

thon he got to the hobel he asked the clerk if OSWALD

SECRET

-3-

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

$262 622

C SD/1

sas in his room, the clork nodded afflatively, ni the travel agent

procceded to OStAD's rOoM.

Hie tried the door,

but the door mas 10' ad.

lic noclied, cot no reoponse, and then with the

osci riance of the cir i

thcy broke into the room and found OSWID lying acyoss the bod with inch

of his wrists slashod. The travel. nucut and the clerk zooponded Immedlainly

ly caking OSMLD to the nour by wadical facility wiere he mo clven blood

transfunions and afior a periol oi tim regainod his cirengüh.

During the

Inostigation the folloing day the SUNJECl siated that the doctor indicated

that had OSWLD not been found for approcumaicly ton nore ninutes, he rould

It is here that the SUBJnCr again rounded the trile and

chirl 11 the travel agent had not broken into cho room, but lad insicad

contacted the KGB office like they are luntructed do thon thay do not

you any resbonse lion scople wich on they have arpointmence, chat he

(SUIJECT) would have nost Jilely dirociod the travel agchi to forget

about him, and on the folloving day or Inter that croning le rould luve

sunt one of the KGB agenie to check en OGlAD, nü which time he would

have been found deal.

Thie, he vent on to otate, 16 tuc lurco him

when he rcalizes that he could have boon inscrunchtal in disrouing of

OstALD without any gpocinl Inuiry or ceriour Invocilention, OSID

being nothing, and nt the sume time today the Frosident of the United

Otates, President Kanty, would do alive.

The SUNUSCr thion went cn

to viare that after OstID ins cont to liinck it no there that he not

Lile himscli (OSWALD), lario sis a girl frau a poncono fondly

wich no apeciul background and sonchot 11l1tcrate.

of her poor background that she vas elven perminalon

to nurzy OStALD

and return to the Unitca Stries no hin vile.

The SUBJeCT then went on to describe what took vince ca the day

that Procident KinnlY vas accaccinated.

He caid that this me actually

on aturday in hoscow,

the 2and of Novcribel

lie to hows at the

und happened to have

the radio on, won he hond that the terciont oi

the Unitod Scatca had boon asmuciniced Anprocimicly one hour laccr

the jadio Informed lin that the acrosein ino Ice OStLD.

Thts announcement,

he suid, scally stumed hino le crallud his cont sui doniad to his ocrice.

Timediatcly upon his nirivul he searched for the DiALD file.

sound the Illa he revioued it and found that OCTALD had not beca used

or even approached for use by the Runsion Intelligunce.

He jut in a

long distance call to the chief of the Wil Scetion in Winch: and Inquied

wether they had ueed, traincd on Napied OSTLD in uy say fox Inirll1-

The Chief intoned Win that according to wint he could

they had not wide uny ure of onwArD.

Juct about this tire,

SECRET

..?-

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECRET

4202 622

C SD/1

the SUEJECE to get ul1 the Inforntion nvailnble on OSWLD and biepare

a curmary to be furnichod the cop oicirals of the Comnist Farty.

The SUBJECI then diraciod the KGB igent in Minnk to likewise nrejare

a cumary of his file on OStUD and Inforned him thit within trenty

minutes a KOB coont vould arive by up cial milliary plane to pick

up the bury for return to loscor.

Is said this as accolished,

and within one hour they were menning a dutailed report on OStLD's

ectivity In missio. Thie, concluded the cuSJECt, 1: the atoiy of

OSWALD In Tuesia®

C. P. ANETCIACTON

(r) The SUBJECI alco Indicuted it he did not join the Conunist

Party unill he ran 27 ycars old, end is disl this out of rosject to his

father, to at the tine mme on his doatl bed and noted him (SUBJECT)

vnether he would do him one nore favor before ha dica.

the

sUBJECT stated he joined the Cenmunist Fnity. Ochenloc, he prowly

sould not have been a mender to this duy.

The SUBJECT routed that the IGB ne able to diffcrontlato

betticon Anoricans tho nie ascigned to lisacow and orc actually the

stute Deparinent tyre, fron those to have an Intelligence background,

by the fact thut the intolligence line of people do not decociato vich

the luscion girls, that is they will ns co out with them alone, increas

the State Dopartment tyne will.

1150, over a period of a month or tro,

thy Invarlably are nble to cind evidence that the Intclligence tyres

licen meturbating.

This 1s urually dotceted through close cran-

inition of the individual's tools and led chocis.

WUSSIAN U-I ATRIANT

(1) On 25 Fobiey 1504 suring the evening wall, a dircussion vas

hnd regarding the mecue aliplane rmsins noted

16t papers and on

TV In the United States.

The SURJRiCT comnented that he his a

ficnds who are test pilots ond tho are now engaged in testing what he

reIcrred to un a U-l tyne of nireract that 18 farice than any other

alrcraft in the vorla.

He added thit tcue friends are highly paid

mut thoy live voly dangerous jolr.

SECRET

•5-

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SECRET

1/262 622

C SD/1

SUBJECT'S FATHER

(1) The SUBJECI nico rade reference to his father during chie

meal, descithing him as a voly tall and coronaly w1l-built individunl,

and one who tas extremoly Intelligent rud a calf-mare, tcJ.f-cducnted

He learned the chipbuilding trade mostly throigh his on reccarch

and study,

and also fron the sunrich's grandfather,

wo was one of the

first shipbullders in luusia.

The curict added thnt his grandinther

died at the age of 94.

He aloo stated that aftcr the dooth of his

father, a memorial ias built in hio nemy cince he ras concidered

a very capable dirocior of the govcronent shipping industry.

vas about the last clue he now his nother and hrocher and cirber, as

they all wont to this cerchony in honor of his father.

indicated that there ves a periodical thich cave a complete rul-dom

on his candly background, including thut of his gradinther and his

and it ras voll publicized; and this he belleres lud a lot

to do with hin being able to get some cecial preferchee un move

along as fast as he did In tho his oreniration.

KGB PRESSURE OI FAILY

(3) 01 27. February 1oG during lunch, the SUeTECT stated thut he

has been Informed that the KGB is putting proucure on lis inuediate

family, particularly his mother.

he said he was not overly

vorried about her because she 1o tell-alf

financially, aud being up

In age there is not much they can do to her.

Horever, whut concerne

him most is the fact that they have ilady started to play on the

sympathies. of his tro children and hiu wife.

The SURJECT stated that

he was anticipating thie; hoover, he did not think cut they would

sturt so soon to prescure the funil:.

Morever, he doss lave core hope

that in due time he may be able to get his family a of iusein. This

hope he cald vus civen to him by the Chler of SR Division.

LIBRARY OF CONGRISS PANERATOR

(k) On 25. Febiunry 10d1 during a sichtrecing ic of lashington

by vehicle, as ve pased the Libraly of Congreen, tie SUNTECT pointed

to the building and stated that

"ve have people rurking in there"

Special Accut Stanloy C. INCh cain,

we'?" ind the sulJICr

"KGB", He continued by siating that this vas a cool place

to place people because they could ssarily Icorn by just miching

what rescarch was being done In the Illrory of Congross ly the nilitary

SEGRET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SECRET

7962 622

C SD/1

and thereby get an idea as to what the military was blonning in the

riy of armaments and things of that nature.

The SUBJECT also advised

that the rcoponsibillty for cctting information cuireptitiously from

American Enbassica in forcien countrie: who ciploy. Indigenous personne).,

Talls within the confines of the KGB.

le stated that the way they to

nhout this le to work through the Indiponous personnel and arrange to

cnter the chlassy at speciol times during the night. They would flist

mnlie a close curvay and a photogranh oi the area

In which the embaccy

keeps Ite closcified materiul, then they rould rubsequently enter this

nica and open up the safes.

hen he wns nsked how this was done he

stated, "oh, combinationg to rafes are not hard to acguire". He said

that the Important and aifficult part of this activlüy is taking the

material out and phobographing it and then placing it exactly as it

was before they touched it.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

13-00000

1. °1.1b

APPEAL AND LITIGATIUN REVIEW FORM

Bonesind

Memo.

#1649-1081

(1 Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

Lui viviti

dated 29 Oct 75

of

1) segregable portions previously released, excised portions exempted under

Locates during the DO appeals review.

() Referred to DO for review by

3. further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

d. I RECOMMEND:

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

( ) ADD exemption (s)

( ) •DROP exemption (s).

of

() Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

of

( ) ADD exemption (s)_

( ) DROP exemption (s)_

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

of

A Deny document in toto under exemption(s) folifE

A Release a

sanitized

(62(1) (0)(35 02) 7) 000 A ramped under

FOLA

5. The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

of

( ) Information from a foreign liaison service

() Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

(pinformation which would could identify the source

Intormation pertaining

to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

( ) Location of CIA overseas installation

( ) Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

1o Name of CIA

employees

) File number

( ) Pseudonym

) Cryptonym

(c Internal organizational data

) Name of FBI

agents

• FBI file number

() Privacy of other individual

( ) OTHER

6.

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTION

to aeliace as ranchiged.

д. E,0, Н, С, к

28 Menay 82

7.

During

the DO classification review, the attached, which was marked as

SECRE

(Y maintained

• was:

() classified to

( ) declassified

( ) desensitized

( ) downgraded to

****' 4121

1. I CONFIDENTIAL

I I SECRET

When detached from att.

DOCL DRVW

ORG 018207 EXT.

RSN

DATE_

П TOP SECRET

---

## Page 17

13-00000

1

Z

3

4

5

6

7

8

10

-Type

" VÉAR

NUMBER

__CONFIDENTIAL L

DOC, NO.

$1649

JSECRET

5763

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (CIrcle il appropriate) 130 CHARACTERS)

NEX DOCUMENT RECORD

Instructions for Divisions and Staffs:

Fill in ond Sign on line 11.

2. Use back of form for ony odditional comments.

DAY

MONTH

p n Pm4

DIEFATEH

LETTER

TEMO

REPORTI

ARGRAM

FROM/ORIGINATOR (JO CHARACTERS)

SAG, RAYMOND M. REARDON

29

OCT.

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS!

DC/SAG

CLASS

WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED BY (1O CHARACTERS!

S

DDO !

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS).

DOES RELATING TO JEK ASSASSINATION

DAY

MONTN

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

AL

DATE

OF

REVIEW

18

FEB

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C.. Deny in toto

D.

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DERER BRiCSION TO i1G CHARACTERG COORDINATE WITH (10 CHAFACTERS!

NEW

CLASS

E.

Sustain initial denial in

toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

..G. Release

additional information

SE, CI; O/S

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED 140 CHARACTERS)

2

stalinie

SIGNATURE OF DOPASÍFOLO REVIEWING OFFICER

E. 0. 13065

81 82 B3 86 05 06. 87C

FA

6Ji d18 JIC KI

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining to intelligence methoas

7. Location of CIA overseas installation

8.

Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name

of CIA employee

10.

File number

11.

Pseudony""

12.

Cryptonym

13, Internal: organizational data

14.: Name

15.

of an FBI agent

FBI file number

•16:

Privacy of other individual

. 17. Does not pertain to reguest

19. Other (Specify in Jine 11)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(3) (1) (b) (c)

(j) (1) (b) (c)

(b) (3)

5) (1) (b)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

=

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(3) (11(0)

(j) (1) (b)

(9) (2)(3)

(5) (1) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1) (b)

(b) (3)

(3) 11) (0)

(b) (3)

(7) (1) (0)

(b) (3)

(3) (1) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1) (0)

(b) 87) (6) 85) (1) (b)

(b) (2)

(5) (1) (3)

(b) (6)

(b)

REMARKS IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) 140 CHARAÇTERS!

C//IS

REMARKS 1160 CHARACTERS)

JFK DOC 1649-1981

YEAR

75

TEAR

81

11

12

13

14

This Form Is Unclassified Uniera Pho Ciaasilisarrem

P& Charte

and The information deion is compioret.

DEFELDREN

---

## Page 18

13-00000

1

2

3

4

6

8

10

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

TYPE

YEAR'

1523

75

5763,017

DOC. NO.

$1649

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Circle if appropriate) (30 CHARACTERS)

CABLE

FORM

DISPATCH :

LETTER

ЧЕМО

REPORT

MIRGRAM

FROM/ORIGINATOR (20 CHARACTERS)

NEW DOCUMENT RECORD

Instructions for Divisions and Staffs:

1. Fill in ond Sign on line 11.

2. Use back of fom for any additional comments.

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

29

ост

25

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

SAG, RAYMOND M. REARDON

DC/SAG

CLASS

WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS)

S

DDO Y

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

DOES RELATING TO JER ASSASSINATION

OF

REVIEW

AL

DATE

OF

REVIEW

DAY.

MONTH

YEAR

18

FEB

Determinations:

Release in full text

Release in sanitized form

Deny in toto

D.

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECISION TO (10 CHARACTERS)| COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

-

E.

Sustain initial denial in toto

F.

Sustain initial

release of

of sanitized

version

G.

Release additional information

SE, CI; O/5

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/ FOLE REVIEWING OFFICER..

E. 0. 12065

FOIA

B1

B2 83 84.85 B6 B7C

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

2:

Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3p. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(x) (1)

(j) (1) (b) (c)

(5) (1) (b) (0)

(b) (3)

(3) (1)(b

5. Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

7 ..

of CIA overseas installation

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name of CIA employee

10. File number

11.

Pseudonym

12.

Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational

data

14. Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

(b) (3).

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1) (b)

(5) (1) (8)

(5j) (1) (b)

(j) (1) (b)

(b) (3)

(3) (1) (6)

(b) (3)

(j) (1) (b)

(b) (3)

(j) (1) (b)

(b) (3)

(5) (1) (b)

(b) (3)

(5) (1) (b)

(6)(7)(0)131 (1)(6)

(b) (2)

(j) (1) (b)

(b) (6)

(b)

REMARKS (IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) (AO CHARACTERS)

Sland enter

OFFICER

REMARKS 1160 CHARACTER

JFK DOC 1649-1881.

11

12

13

14

This Form is Unciassified Unlons The Classification is

ond The information bolom. a complered.

Checked

DECL DREW

---

