104-10171-10015) ,

- CENTRAL, INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Ths wararias cnowins tmiormation sorting Us Matinns: Defense oF tbe Vetted Siaies etthin the meaning of te Kepianags Lava Tue
1A UBO. ee Td sod 7H the mameimus oF rerweuue of Whi Mt Soy meloes Wo An URaUIDEred perme Ww prubiled O7 We.

O24 A): aggel?
aaa ae) OSUTROL ! aunt eae
a UNTRY Cubs. MEPORT NO. CS ~3/505 853
suaect = Status of the Anti-Castro Movenent DATE OrStR «= 29 March 1962
/ In Cuba, December 1962 é
NO. PAGES 6 :

ie REFERENCES ROW-2107

OATE OF
INFO. 20 Decesber 1962

PACE& Argentina, Buenos Aires (18 Jamiary 1%2)°
DATE aca. HELD REPORT NO.

THIa_G UNEVALUATED IiOumATION SOURCE G#ADI~eGS ABT OU/INITIVE APPRATLAL OF CONTENT 19 TENTATNE.

source, [=== ;
ae contents Se |

1. anti-Castro aotivities in Cuba include those of the nation-wide organised
novemonts and those of local fronta where iniepenient guorrillas are grouped
in small unite. The penetration of the Cuban armed forves is insignificant.

2. Tho national movements which have been active in Cuba are the Moviniento de
Recuperacion Revolucicnaria (M2), Movimiento Danocrata Cristiano (HOC),
Moviziento Revolucionario 30 de Kevlambre, Novimiento Revolucionario del
Pueblo. (YRP) Rescate Revolucionario, and Directario Revolucionario
Estutiantil (DRR). Other groups with Limited organizations are the Unidad
RevoTuélonaria 48d the 4RA. (deociaciag. de Atigoa de‘ Aureliano Sanches,
we. grango), The strength of the groups by provinco, is as follows:

&. Southern Oriente Province (Santiago de Ciba)

(1) MRR. The RR, af Nino Dias, has menbers fron the rants of the
26 of July Movement ant, especially, fron the former regular Arsy.
Its civilian organization 1s poor, alacet non-existent... The nen
renain inactive, waiting for ¢ & serious military aotion of a local
or national character. RETURN TO CIA

(2) OC. The MOC has an adequate civilian organisations froa the Background Use
founding of ‘the sovenent Santiago dé Cuba bas been ons af its Do Not Reproduce
strongholds. The ailitary organization is extremely poor. Many
of its leaders have gone into exile or are trying to do 80,

They rewtin totally inactive in hope of an invasion whioh will resolve
the situation, and only concern themselves about a future political
life, at the tine when the present gorernmnt falls. .

G) 30 do Noviembre. There are few meabers af the 30 de Noviembre in
Santiago de Cuba, ani they lack contact with their national leaders.
They have practically no resources.

S£C-R2-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

stare [Xk [oar xX frore X [ae ae Xo re Fs
ESRODCLANT CINCARIB ia

LcTatetellrrace Bea arene BEB

CBR



(Ss)
(6)

ac A

HOL

65=3/515 853

sth] Orteber 1751 the MP haf a good civillan ani military organizations
Lately after the arrest. af Hinol Gongalez, the naticoal co-criinator, the
local co=1riinator ani al-cot all the mebers in the province sought asylums
The new co-criinatur 1a trying to reorganize the movement. There are st}
enough «ren of actica, canirg fran the 26 of Jily Hvenont, but they have to

Po-estadlish contact.
Rescater keccete has no mesbers in tds area.

DRE. Tho DRE ws conpletely broken ty the wmsuccoseu. uprising of Alberto Muller
end by the arrest in October of Bg) Fiere®, provincial co-~urdinater. The DEB
still kas great prestige in the area, and there are many vho wuld follow ite

directions
bv. Karthern Oriente Province
»_Forthern Oriente i=

(2) GR. the HOR 4s practically non-existent 1n northern Ortente Province,
with the exception of @ fev personal contacts of Bino Diase

(2) OC. Tho WOC 4s poorly organized ani inactive.

(G) 30 de Noviesbre. It has a mediocre organization, fow membors, and is
inactive.

(3) MRP. Even before the dedscle cf Cotobar fhe MRP had a very poor
organization in this area. Fito donss ("Ricardo"), the co-ordinator,
was arrested in tho roundup at that tino, but escaped end took asylim
in tho Ecuadorean Embassy. His successox ard the military ant eivilien

personnel aro relatively capable. -
(S) Rescate. It does not exist in this area.
(6) DE. It does not exist in this area.
—_

C, Camaguey Province.

ee : :

(1) PRR. At the beginning of April 1961 Caballero (fra), the co~miinator,
hogo nicknamo is "Z1 Viejo", was arrested ani condermed’ to 30 years
om the Isle of Pines. Arango (fm), who was nied co-nrdinatcr in
dugutt, has been forced to seek asylim in Habana. The novemont has

beon siestroyed.

(2) WC, The MOC has an excellent co-crdinator, Blanco (fra), who: is
rempoasiblo, discreet, with good ccansctions. The WC has a vory good
civilian organization snd st present ia ‘concerned about ite military
orgarization, for vtdch they alresdy have soxe persornel.. They, work
effectively and are trying to carry out seme military untions.

(3) 30 de Noviesbre. ‘The civilian organization is relatively gool. It has
@ small but effective military furce. -

() MRP. * Caragusy is practically the ouly province in which the MAP wis not
affected by the arrests of October. It has a good civilian organisation
. and military forees of impartance, vhich are under the casird of former
officers of the Rebel Arzy. arquinides Ceballaro (*atedan"), ita
forser co-ordinator, took asylum in the Brazilian Exbassy3 *Ricanio®,
his replacement, is very young (21 years old) but is considered very geod.

(5) Rescate. It has a poor organizetion. There are gnough men, but they
are inactive. : = is ‘

(6) Dea Few nombers of the DEE remain, and *tronco® ani Rafae? Angol Quevedo,
ito directors, are knova by G2. The novenent has been destroyed.

SECRET
woroRy/COVTINUED CONTROL :

