# 104-10073-10115

## Page 1

104-10073-1011

7-58

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BAS/Ci.

DATE :

D3 303 AUS097 195

OWING

SECRET

DIRE: TOR

16-18

FROM

[CILORO TRUJILLO J

ACTION: UH 6 (TEMPO CONY ISSUED TO MP. COBB, W, AT 1920, 13 MUG.)

INFO

: 0C1, 0/DC1, 0O/P, COP, A/D0/P/P,

co, Co/ops, er/Ic,

FI, FI/ROH

00/1, A0/C1, S/C 2

2, PP/PRD, PP/PROP, PP/MAs, 100-1,

ARc 13 73

Т7 855

REC'O LADLE SECT.

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 13435

itO

OFO

OPIN DIR

PRITY HAVA PRITY SANG J

CITE

-al-

TRUJ 862

INTEL IMPLOW

SUPDATA: SOURCE JON AGES, CHIEF DOM INTEL

Q1R

39653 (OUT 8522. 1)

FILED 1317087

DC 32

16-10

CUBA/DOM REP

SUBJ REVOLUTION

IN CUBA

#DC-32

I ALLO

16-18

APPE:

PARA 1 IS 62, PARA: 2 3 ANO 5 ARE C3, PARA 4 IS C6, PARA

6 15 A1.

THEN 1389

1. SOURCE FORCEFULLY POSITIVE FOLL: GODR HAS NOT SENT AND

WILL NOT SEND ANY EXPEDITION AGAINST CUBA, UNLESS EXTREME CON

DITIONS DEVELOP DEMANDING DOMS ATTEMPT CRUSH CUBAN EXPEDITION

AGAINST DOM REP AT CUBAN SHORES.

2. SIX CURAN CONMANDERS WITH ELDY GUTIERREZ MENOYO AS CHIEF

AND WILLIAM MORGAN SECOND IN COMMAND DEMANDED OF FIDEL CASTRO

THAT NO COMMIES BE ACCEPTED-IN-CUBAN ARMY. THIS DEVELOPED

EXPLOSIVE SITUATION AND CASTRO AT INSISTENCE OF RALL CASTRO

ACCUSED THESE SIX OF COUNTER REV ACTION. FIDEL PLANNED TO ARRESTE

200:7-38°

SECRET

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

3.0u959

opy Ne

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

#09753

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DATE

TO

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

13 AUGUST 1959

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 10

SECRET

11.1: 106

ROUTING

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 13435

-TRUJ $623

21-18

1O

INFO

CITE

AND CHARGE ALL SIX. THEY LEARNED OF PLAN AND ESCAPED TO COAST,

LANDING IN CASILDA BAY THEN MADE WAY TO ESCAMBRAY, CUT ROADS EAST

AND WEST RUNNING TO SOUTH COAST. GUTIERREZ HAS OVER 2, DOD MEN IN

THA? AREA IN OPEN CONFLICT WITH CASTRO TROOPS.

3. SOURCE RADIOS LOLATEU ON, NORTH COAST OF DOMREP LISTEN TO

GUTIERREZ MEN NIGHTLY BROADCASTING FROM TRINIDAD CUBA, WHICH THEY

CAPTURED.

4. CASTRO HAS UNDER ARREST APPROX 4, DES AS RESULT PRESENT

REVOLUTION AND NEARLY 2,I00 KILLED BUT UNPUBLICIZED.

5. RECENT REPORT RE ATTEMPT KILL FIDEL IS DEFINITELY TRUE

AS WELL AS ATTEMPT KILL RAUL.

Bracintero

6. BUT N TALKED WITH ARRERALA IN LATTERS HOME FOR

NEARLY ONE HOUR 13 AUGUST 59. HE HAS NOT BEEN ABSENT,/ HAS NO

•PLANS LEAD FORGE TO CUBA. SAID HIS DUTY TO ATTACK CASTRO FORCES

BUT HE HAS NEITHER MEN NOR EQUIPMENT. OTHER PEDRAZA STATEMENTS

POUCHED.

7. FIELD DISSEM: STATE NAVY.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: * Requested information regarding anti-Castro groupe.

200-7.38

•SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER MAN THE ISSUIN@OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

13 plugsy

Copy No.

Rs

---

