o4-0707-(0089

eye ‘ : S ) 6c 76-875
iene dees ere (aap seer C3 ose 7 ;
Tania : GREE la-20-7
RETURN TO CIA coeene
Background Use Only eee
Do Not Reproduce

7 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
ATTENTION + Mr. Rod Brooks

FROM y Joel E. Keys, Chief
Corporate Cover Branch
Central Cover Staff
SUBJECT > Request for Letter of Agreement

oF 4, Please prepare a Letter of Agreement between the Aae ob
[@abiuE; which,.through the President of the firm, Hr.
has agreed to place on retainer a Contract Agent of Europe Divi On,

ov GOPHONE/1. John d. Murray, Jr. represented the Agancy tn these
negotiations. Identities will be forwarded under separate cover.

roe or
2. Effective 1 October 1975, GabLue will place on retainer (TOPHONE/1

at an annual retainer of$9,000, which will be paid to him in monthly
increments of $750 b LUE. The Company will overtly negotiate a
retainer contract with COPHONE, which will make eminently clear that
both are negotiating and &o iuding the contract as independent
parties; that the Company, CABLUE, will have no obligation to withhold
Federal, or state Income taxes, or Social Security taxes.

°2 3. In consideration of the support rendered, the Agency will
pa “LUE $10,000 annually. Praviston ts made in this amourt to
offset any nominal expenses the firm incurs in its overt associations
ea or support oR HONE/1, It also serves, in part, to minimize the
“ chances that auditing personnel will |gidentify a wash transfer between
the notional facility and payments t@CIOHONE/1.

0%
4. The Agency will reimburse(| BLUE in gu terly increments
via a contrived contractual arrangement betw! BBLUE and a notional
facility of the Agency. Cancelled checks will serve as adequate
accountings for monies paid@. LUE,
Oe

5. Please include the usual paragraphs of appreciation, secrecy,

and prohibition of bona fide employment.

6. All information relating to this agreement is classified
secret. Both the Agency and the Company agree that the most stringeat
safeguards will be taken to protect this information, including the

E-2 IMPDET
CL BY 055087

ie]
mr

z

Yo) ern


af’

-

OO geonep

existence of the agreement. Any information in any form that must
be given to a third party by either the Agency or the Company will
be done in strict conformance to the laws safeguarding national

security information, and only with full consultation between the —
Agency and the Company. bia : ae : :

é : te

JOEL E. KEYS

~2e

SEGRET

