# 104-10183-10366

## Page 1

104-10183-10366

SESADAS PENITELT: *

SEGRST

HOUSE CALECT CORRETE 0

1S605511110ES GAME MIR9S

FILE TITLE/NINEE/VOLUN

201- 7496V1

INCLUSIV: DATIS: 31 Dee 70-13 MAR 74

CUSTODIAL, UNIT/LOCATTOY:

LE/DDO

nos: 3030

DELETIONS, IF AVY:

TATI

NATT:

PECEEVED RETURUED

2N:1478

27 JXY28

4º1 1 ALC 1978

6201.>8

RETENED BY

(OPIN NAME

CHUCK NES'K

CHUCK BERK

CORNUELA

BEISY WOLF

SIGNATIN: OF

_REYTENING OFFICIAL

Chans Beck

Sonal

Betay tiklf

May ll corna en telon

FRON THIS FILE.

---

## Page 2

OPFRATIONAL MATERIAL dated 2 January 1971 - 10 April 1972

---

## Page 3

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

FBI, 6 April 1978

J&NS, 19 April 1971

---

## Page 4

1 27.

SECRET..

C

STAFF

CONF: LA-8

INFO: FILE•: VR.

000-4. C/PCS,

CI-4. 000/00. EA-8,

EPS/EGE?:

1P/OMS=2. LSN/10. ODPO-D..PeS/LSN,

634(P.)

i8 0552087

P.AGE

001

TOT: 1300122 APR: 18

DIRECTOR 200604

SECRET

STAFF 13001OZ DIRECTOR 204600

TO. ' IMMEDIATE

JINFOL

#NINTEL REAM

REF $

28157 0527676

1.

IN CONVERSATION WITH NUCANOPY THEY HAVE ADVISED THAT.

THEY-ARE INTERESTEO IN A PRELIMINARY INTERVIEN WITH SLANK! (S-I)_

AND

DEPENDING ON ITS OUTCOME WILL MAKE A DETERMINATION IF THEY

DESIRE

3*1'S CONTINUED CONTACT WITH SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA. (SA)•

PACHANKIS SHOULD

MAKE: IT CLEAR TO S-1. THAT. RIACTION OBVIOUSLY

HAS NO OBJECTION TO MIS COOPERATION WITH NVCANOPY

PACHANKIS

ALSO. SHOULD

MAKE IT CLEAR. TO SOJ THAT RTACTION HAS 'NO INTEREST

IN HIS (S-LOS) CONTINUED RELATIONSHIP WITH SA..

A REVIEN OF THE FILES OF THOSE INDIVIDUALS WITH

WHOM

PACHANKIS CURRENTLI

IN ACTIVE CONTACT. INDICATES. THAT NUCANOPY

APPROVAL WAS SOUGHT AND GRANTEO IN EACH CASE: WITH THE

EXCEPTION OF DEFECTORS SUCH AS SLANK-I WHO HAD BEEN HANDLED

AS A DEFECTOR ALTHOUGH ACCORDING.TO THE FILE ME NEVER OFFICIALLY

GRANTED THIS STATUS UNDER PL 110.

HOS DOES NOT COORDiNATE

EACM

INDIVIDUAL MEETING NOR IDENTIFY OFFICER HANDLING CASE

TO NICANOPY.

201-2992438 201-749651. EZ. IMPDET.*

LA: COMMENT:

REF QUERIED: HOS REGARDING FBI OR CIA INTEREST IN

PLAYING ROLE OF CONFIDANT TO ALDEREGUIA.

ORIG: LA/CO

X1819/1325) COORD: AC/LA/CO/EA

P. AC/LA/PHNER

C/LA/CARI

I CALA/CARI

I CL BY: 012034.2 AUTHS DE/LANCO D

749451

END OF MESSAGE!

SECRET

---

## Page 5

50/22/

-DISSEM PER S04132

SECRET

CONF t/LA-g

ODPD-D,

:(15/P)

78 0530047

INFO: FILE. RF. CICI-2.

GRE:

NON-ACENCY

CAPIDUS, CRESN/TO, CAPCS.

PAGE

001

TOT: 0807502 APR 78

CIA: 203017

SECRET

0807502 CIA: 202417

TOS FEDERAL BUREAU DE INVESTICATION.

ATTENTION:

INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

SECRET/WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM®

METHODS

CIR-316/ 0151478

SUBJECT: STONEAT: ESP-CUBA-PANAMA: RA-CUBA-PANAMA

REFS:

A. FBI TELETYPE DATED 052028Z APRIL 1978, CAPTIONED AS

ABOVE.

B. C1R-S/A/00260-75, DATED 1A EFARiARY

1975, CAPTIONED

ALSO KNOWN AS

INTERNAL SECRUITY=

CUBA -

1.

WITH REGARD TO CLARIFICATION OF

ASSOCIATION MITH U.S• GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND PARTICULARLY WITH CIA,

REFERENCE B ADVISED

• THAT HE WAS OF INTEREST TO THIS AGENCY IN 1960

WHEN WE WERE INDIRECTLY INVOLVED IN ASSISTING IN HIS EXFILTRATION

FROM CUBA.

HAVANA

HOWEVER. HE TOOK ASYLUM IN THE

ON 3 JULY 1960 AND. DEPARTED THE SAME DAY FOR CURACÃO.

HIS. ARRIVAL IN MIAMI IN FEBRUARY 19610 THIS AGENCY WAS BRIEFLY IN

AFTER

CONTACT WITH HIM BUT OUR: INTEREST WAS DROPPED PARTLY BECAUSE HIS

UNCLE, ONE OF THE LEADING FOUNDERS OF THE CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY, NAS

THEN CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO

AND

WERE UNKNOWN:

TRUE LOYALTIES

THIS AGENCY: HAS HAD NO INTEREST. IN OR CONTACT WITH

SINCE THAT TIME.

2.

VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAMERA DOB 6 FEBRUARY 1937.

HAVANA, CUBA NAS A FORMER DGI STAFF OFFICER WHO DEFECTED ON 21

APRIL 1964 IN HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA.

HE WAS DEBRIEFED AND HANDLED

THROUGH NORMAL DEFECTOR CHANNELS AND WAS THE SOURCE OF NUMEROUS

ESCI'S CONCERNING THE OGI IN 1964 AND 65.

HE WAS USED OPERATIONALLY

IN RECRUITMENT ATTEMPTS AGAINST DGI OFFICERS

DURING 1964-1967.

HE WAS TERMINATED IN

JULY 1967. AND WAS CONSIDERED, BUT NEVER USED, FOR ANOTHER

RECRUITMENT ATTEMPT IN 1971. SINCE 1971 RODRIGUEZ HAS NOT BEEN

INVOLVED IN ANY CIA OPERATION IN MIAMI OR ELSENHERE.

JOSEPH

NORRIS IS THE ALIAS OF A

CIA

• =-

$

REPRÈSENTATIVE WHO PERIODICALLY DEBRIEFS RODRIGUEZ ON PERSONALITIE

AND METHODS DF THE DGI. THERE IS NO OTHER CIA INVOLVEMENT WITH

RODRIGUEZ®

THIS AGENCY WILL QUERY ITS REPRESENTATIVE IN MIAMI TO

0/6:514. 18

DETERMINE IF HE MAS ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RELEVANT TO THIS

MATTER.

SECRET

Slyse78

01-749651

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

NON"AGENCY

C: 78 0530099 .

APR 19 8 47 4 978

PAGE 002

080750Z APR 78

CJA. 202417

CLASSIFIED BE 01203

•EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

• SCHEDULE OF E.D.. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5 B(2).

IMPOSSIBLE TO

DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.»

ORIG LA/CO/CI SPEED X1325: COORD LAA

_ADE/LALEO

AUTH C/LAD

REL AC/PES/LSN/

CL BY 012034.

-*.

C

A P MAY

1j1"

' END DF MESSAGE

SECRET ::

---

## Page 7

55/25/44

SECRET

ADV NOTIFIED AND ISSUED LA 2214Z

RECEDENGE

FRP:

STAFF

ACTIONI CA-B (837):

ISNAID.

ODPD-D

INFOS FILEO VR. DDO G. C/PES, CI-G, EPS/EG-2.

SIA,.

SIA/IC

(258N)

76 0527670

PAGE

001

TOR: 072209Z APR 78

IN 0527670

28158

SECRET OTCiUZZ APR 78 STAFF

CITE

28158

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE

NIACT DIRECTOR

RiNINTEL REAM

REF:

28157 0527676

IDEN A:

NILLIAM

FBI

SPECIAL: AGENT

wALTON

IDEN 88

JACK COGSNELL.

A WEST PALM BEACH

RESIDENT

wHO .SA

SAYS WAS

A RETIRED U.S, NAVAL

INTELLIGENCE OFFICER.

E2. IMPDET.

R:000

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

1191-849651

---

## Page 8

14-00000

1.

0.o

•...

.2.:

55/891

SECRET

Fip:

ADV NOTIFIED AND ISSUED LA 22162

RESESENGI

STAFF

ACTION:

LAod

(836)

INFOS FILE, VRA DODOB, CAPES, CISIA, CISIAIIE.

IPIDUS..LSNIID..ODPDOD..

(25/5)

78 0527686

TOR:

PAGE

008

072206%

IN 0527676

000L090

SEGRET OÄRIN22 APR 18 STAFF

CITE|

28157

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE

NIACT DIRECTOR

523

ANINTEL REAM

REFS DIRECTOR 201938

. _DURING THE YEARS THAT PACMANKIS HAS BESN. IN CONTACT WITH

SLANK (S-1), FORMERLY AMMUGOI,

HAS HAD NO KNOWLEDGE THAT SOL WAS EVER IN CONTACT WITH

SINCE 1969 IT HAS BEEN PACHANKIS' UNDERSTANDING THAT

HAS BEEN INFORMED EVERY TIME PACMANKIS MAS MADE AN

OPERATIONAL CALL ON A U.S.

PERSON IN THE MIAMI AREA,

HAS NEVER BEEN EXPOSED/INTRODUCED TO NUCANOPY IN MIAMI.

PACHANNIS

•1AS BEEN INTRODUCED. TO NUCANOPY, REPS IN NEA YORK CITY WHILE ON

TOY TO FRANEN YORE (CIRCA 1974).

PACHANKIS HAS ALSO MEY AN

AGENT IN NEMARK, NENJERSEY UNDER THE ALIAS OF JOE

PACHANKIS HAS BEEN HANDLING SOL SINCE EARLY 1970.

SEVERAL TIMES OPERATIONS ALMOST CAME OFF BUT HOS DECIDED AT THE

LAST MINUTE TO PRESERVE S-L'S SECURITY.

IN THE PAST FEW YEARS

NOT BEEN

CONTACT WITH SOL EXCEPT FOR A CHRISTMAS

CALL OR A ROUTINE COG REQUIREMENT.

SLANKOL. CALLED PAGHANKIS ON O APRIL AND REQUESTED MEETING

TO REPORT FOLL:

HAS BEEN SOI FRIEND SINCE

1955

IN CUBA. THEY CONSPIRED AGAINST THE BATISTA REGIME

IN THE RANKS OF THE ZOTH OF JULY MOVEMENT.

WHILE

S=1 HAD WOT SEEN SA IN ALMOST FOUR YEARS WHEN THEY

COINCIDENTALLY MET DU A MIAMI

STREET IN 1955

YEAR AFTER

SaI'S DEFECTION FRON DGID.

1905 UNTIL FEB/MARCH 1978, THEY

HAD INFREQUENT

THOUGH CORDIAL ENCOUNTERS

IN MIAMI.

AFTER SA'S RECENT

ARREST IN MIAMI SY NVCANOPY. ON

ESPIONAGE CHARGES.

A CONSTANT VISITOR TO

SA HAS OSTENSIVELY SEEN SEERING "TEA AND SYMPATHY" FROM SOLO

SECRET

#e:-744451

---

## Page 9

SECRET.

STAFF

78

0527676

PAGE: 002

TOR: 072206Z APR 70:

105276

CLAIMING HE HAS BEEN FRAMED BY NYCANOPY-

WHILE S-I DOES NOT

BELIEVE.

SA, SI'S *CI MIND" AND CURIOSITY HAVE COMPELLED MIM

TO CONTINUE CONTACT WITH SA. IN RECENT NEEKS SA HAS INTRODUCED

S-I TO IDENS A AND B.::

AS SAIS CONFIDANT IF

NUCANOPY AND/OR RIACTION CONSIDER S-I CAN DO GOOD IN SUCH A

ROLE. PLEASE ADVISE.

STATION HAS NO FILES ON SOÏ AND THEREFORE CANNOT COMMENT

PACHANKIS' ACTIVITIES IN ALIAS SOE NORRIS FOR THE PAST SEVERAL

YEARS AT THE MOS LEVEL.

6. FILE:: Z0jÖCSLANK-1D. ELO IMPDET.

SL.

END OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

---

## Page 10

CalViN = SPUB( pic Figrall)

*2135

called

Wa das old (160775) MCClerkied inat touched since

DUET and want to tiressin statin f case it -

will chics thi

rice de in no de termine as

manne.

134a> 77

15 April? 7 Tet SiANK/I

---

## Page 11

"NOTE

30 JUL 1976

WE WILL NOT ASK FOR A DEVISED FACILITY FOR SLANK/1 UNTIL

11 IS DETERMINED HE WILL BE USED AGAIN.

LA/COG/TA

---

## Page 12

SECRÈT

MEMORANDÚM OF ORAL COMMITMENT

SUBJECT:

0

Engagement of SLANK-1 (201-749651)

Term and Project Charge:

under oral contract for use under Project

Subject has been engaged

SLEEPER.

effective date of the oral contract is 16 Oct 1975.

The

2 .

Security Approval: An OA for the operational

Subjece outside

the U.S. was granted on 6 Jan 1971.

use of

3. Citizenship: Subject is a United States Citizen.

4.

Corpensation: Subject is reimbursed for travel expenses

and is given a salary replacement for any time he is required

to be arsent form work at the request of the Agency. The

salary reimbursement will not exceed $40 a day.: He may be

awarded cash bonuses for services rendered.

He may also

be given

gifts

time to time, the individual value

of which

will not exceed $50.

Subject is obligated to pay U.S. taxes and

should de issued a Devised Facility Form 1099 at the end

of each tax year.

Quarters and/or Subsistence:

Subject is not furnished quarters or subsistence.

c commitments have been made regarding additional

compensation to accommodate increased cost of living and

quarters expenses.

Operational Expenses: Subject will be reimbursed for

operatical expenses such as entertainment of operational

contacts, phone calls, cover expenses, etc., upon

submission of proper accounting for such expenses.

SECRET

Fintelie

R200ns vu: i

LY-420°

it get 74

E2, IMPDET

CL

BY:

025231

211-949657

---

## Page 13

SECRET

- 2-

8.

Contingent Obligations: Mithough no commitment to

this elfect has been made to Subject, should the security

Tof Subject or his family become threatened because of

activities undertaken by him at the request of this

Agency, this Agency would have an obligation to reimburse

Subject for expenses required to reduce that threat,

including expenses necded to relocate Subjcct and his

family. and,

if necessary,

to supplement his income' while

he is establishing a new residence and employment.

9.

No commitments

other than those stated above have

been made to Subject.

SIGNED:

Case Officer

REVIENED:

APPROVED:

Field Contracting Officer

Attachment:

Non-Staff Personnel Data Sheet

Distribution:

Orig &

2 - LA/Personnel w/att

1 - Vital Documents w/att

LA/COG/Chrorio

201-749651

LA/B&F

SECR

E T

---

## Page 14

1400000

SECRET

NON-STAFF PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

16 July 76

INSTRUCTIONS:

HAME (LAST, FIRST. MIDDLE)

SUBMIT FOR:

CONTRACT EMPLOYEES (TYPE A.

INDEPENDENT CONTRAC ORS UNDER WRITTEN CONTRACT OR MOS (US CITIZENS ON

RESIDENT ALIENS ONLY)

THIS FOSM IS NOT APPLICABLE FOR OPERATIONAL OR FIELO AGENIS

OF COFIES AT AYS DISCRETION) AND

FORM WILL BE RETAINED BY THE ORIGISATING COUPONENT (NUHBEL

BY CSPS/AGENT BEAUCH (I COPY ONES

SEX

RODRIGUEZ Lalera, Vladimir

MARITAL STATUS

NO. OEPENDENTS

TEARISS OF BIRTN

DATE OF LATEST SECURITY/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

(wife)

16 Feb 1937

24 Aug 1958

1O0 TITLE

M

NATIDNALITY

u.s.

DATE OF DIRIN

2 Jun 1937

LAST MEDICAL CYAN

CORSCHENT

Amended OA 7 Jan 1971

CONTRACE CATEGORY

EFFECTIVE DATE

16 Oct 75

EXPIRATION DATE

Indefinite

SALARY

GRADE EOVIVALENY

TPROJECT OR FAN O

BENEFITS

SOCIAL

SECURITY

FECA

VLAYM AMN DISABILIYY

ANNUAL

CIVIL SERVICE

RETIRENENT

CIA RETIRIMENT OR COMMIRCIAL CIA ANNUITY

FEDERAL

EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE

CONTRACT

LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE

MISSING PERSONS BENEFITS

CoMe CArLAly) If forced to move for security

ClA would help with expenses.

Escuela Publica #46

Primaria Superior #19

Artes y Oficios (Construcion Civil)

Instituto de Habana

14X4N44

rcasonsel

NON- CIA CDUCATION

X

Ist-oth lirade

7th - 3th Grade

1 Year

2 years toward bachelor degree

FROM. TO

EMPLOYER

NON-CIA EMPLOYEET

LOCATION

FUNCTION

SALARY

Jug 63-Apr 64

Ministry of Foreign

Relations

May 65- Dec 66

Scheaffer Advertising Co

Dec

66-CA Dec

74 Marriot Corp

Dec

74-Present

Metro

Transit Authority

Havana, Cuba Intel Off

Miami,

Market Re-

searcher

Miani,

Fla.

Miami, Fla.

$600 mo.

Bus Driver

$13,000 уг.

CIA TRAINING

FUNCTION

Apr 64-Nov 67

Agent "

Jan 69-Present

Informant

CIA EMPLOYMENT HISTORY (BEGINNING WITH FODS"

CONTA.

CAT.

LOCATION

PROJECT

washington,

AMMUG

D.C.

Miani

Miami, Fla! SLEEPER

SALARY

QUIV

5600 mo.

WAE

---

## Page 15

SEERE!

SECURITY:

RECTORS AFRCHING SUBUIET (PreLICOSURE PRESS:

CIA STAFF PERSONNEL.

iNTELLIGENCE

RADIO. TO): ANDRA OR SUSE

SECURITY SERVICES.

EE VCETTIFICATION TO OWNTAGA

Cuban Intelligence Service

COVER

HON-OFFICIAL

PRESENT CUNEO IS:

OFFiCiAL:

DIviSION CVALUATION OF COVER SECURITI

At present,

subject is not involved in any activities that

require him to use a cover.

If and when he travels abroad, he

will use business or personal cover appropriate to the mission

involved.

EVALUATION OF

PERfOnMANCE;

ADAPTABILITY (SUBJECT AND FAVILY) TOMAROS DUAL LIFE

8.

PRATHODS OPEN HAS.

CO! OFFICIAL

I MON-OFFICIAL (GIVE BRIEF IF IF NOC)

VOCILITY

INDICATE LIMITING FACTORS BOTH PERSÓNAL ANO OPERATIONAL

No known limiting factors

FUTURE UTILIZATION

INGICATE PLANS OR RECONMENDATIOAS FOE USE AFTER CURRENT ASSIGNMENT

Headquarters plans to use Subject to contact and approach

Cubans of operational interest to LA/COG.

---

## Page 16

pis pouch to HaS

SECRET

28 April 1976

1. For the Record: SAN21 1551) nos purchased a home at:

Henry s. PACHANKIS.

1957:601

ir; Did

- 796 609 F0M.96

From

413:3)

<x-4130

SECRET

RECORD COPY

280pr 16

201-749651

---

## Page 17

rOAS

& CRET

27 March, 1975

At 24 March

meetina,

FACHASKIS

siscussed latest chaicas Stacion

requirements with SuAlX-1

(S-1).

Sal not seen

since c. 1904, thus unable pastide

updated issessmente

E-1.noes

not.

Kran 2/75 nife.

Sul considers highly improbable Fal vould accept private meetin

via

shone.

Fal could be

suspicious of S-l's motives and right.

round up can welcoming committee for controntasion.

Sal confidant a direct strent meeting one on one wouid ester

best opportunity to communicate igency difer to i-lo

3-1's

alone

second choice would be home approach, were it known ial was.

only with wife.t

plan.

5-1 is

discipline?,

Jiserder, devoted,

TruSty crowdeded stocton ramed

States

will

go

anywherey anytime

to cooperate.

Prepared

5 days sick

leive

iithout ory to particinate approach toy

i-:.

Could leavo kirmi

on Sacarday, coturning tacost. 21002%

cloving.

week.

5-1

is incis and

His iiS

passport.

5-1 needs e. 1 veers

prior notice to prepare for CARACiS

?Di.

3-1 revirred names of cubing

on latest Diplomatic iist.

Only

positive us: tinterto

HERNANDE:

former Doi collatue pf 5-1a

terry S. PiChatriS.

dvi

---

## Page 18

SECRET

3 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: SLANK-1

In reviewing: SLANK-l's file for possible leads to targets

of interest the following names were selected:

1. Roberto RODRIGUEZ Liompart (201-865547)

2. Ricardo ESPINO Martinez (201-818437)

3.

Federico CRESPO Moreira

(201-894397)

(in Peru since January 1973)

4:

Rafaci MIRABAL Fernandez (KDACOUSTIC-1) (201-812117)

(*lexico - February 1967)

5.

Manuel, CARDONELL Duque

(201-279604)

(Capt. Pol. worked with M-1)

6.

7.

Armando "Ulises" ESTRADA Fernandez (201-809440)

Ramon Cesar CUENCA Mintoto

(201-328945)

(PCS Caracas

- October 75 (DGI) )

8.

Roque DALTON Garcia

(201-215097)

•(DSE - now in Havana)

Individual files of subject now being reviewed. If one or several

of these subjects appears recruitable, a plan will be written up

explaining "plan of

action."

Wilfree

16. CLOWER

E2 IMPDET

CL BY Q25231

SECRET

3 Fet llo

---

## Page 19

19 Novemb = 1975

SUBJECT:

Change of Address and Phone

of

SiAtk-1 (S=1)

1,

S-l has informed me via a

lotter to my PO Box that he has

moved

once again and has a

new phone.

Please record:

HiSP

li tries

w43:5%

du!.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

Re: 51R759487

29 October 1975

SUBJECT:

contact Report on SLiNk-1 (s-1)

1.

was met.on

the evening of 29 October, at his Miami

apartment, to inform him of the following:

2=.

appeared to be

in Caracas.

B. Consequently, our people had decided to study him

in denth and

decide at a later date what action, if

any, could or should be taken against him.

to pitch or not to pitch.

c.

Our office had asked me to thank rim for his offer

to assist in iny operation and modid koep him in

mind in any future plans.

5-1 was grateful to heur

these words

and reiterated his dillingness/avallability

to help out in this of any other doeration.

i thought this to be the most diplomatic and efiective way

to treat this issue.

I wanted to give nim an answer yot not

say we didn't think

him the

most likely candidate.

3-1 2.15

always been PRESENT when

we

neriod yalunteers.

He longs so

riet back in the

"businuse" ind

there is no doubt he can do

the job.

They don't core any

"jutsier."

we never know when

we'll need him and is good to know he is there.

Henry S. MACHANKIS.

for Daak-!

201-1-49651

---

## Page 21

PRIERITY -

TREASE

DIR 754594

CAPACAS 28065-

16 Octoner 1975

•SUBJECT:

contace Report on Sbax=1. (5-1)

3.

4.

5.

on the evening or 15 October, at his new

address

to discuss recent Has requirements.

Ramon. Cesar CUENCA

Santos ested racern his ones ne han to ee inere hecause

Móntoro is in Caracas®

the Curan

ambassador (horberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo) was my boss

in the OGI ie. 1963-04) and

"Cesar" was above us both."

(In Ötter words, in cilles-t, CueNCA was superior in rank

to bor Sal and HERNANDEz che

present Cuban imbassador. to

venezuela.) CousicA was knoir as Cesar to his coworkers/flends)

sal is soriulsly ready, willing and able to partare in any

agency Operation againce Custica and/or HERNANDS?.

Sal is in

ANCIT add

valid Us passacre.

His only considoration is

obtaining ene

aroner permission irom his employers.

This is

a matter thint the

icency tus? salicis for him.

As previously

reported,

5-: vorxes for:

retra

transis. nuthority

(sus triver)

3500 wa 32. ivenue, Miami.

The persons so be contacted de Ning to grint 5-1 the necessiry

leave are:

PNU

cROSS and

No C. BUTi:?

Th bal! is in our courie

You cannot ask for a more dedicated/

motivated/educated tre the Pill than

S-1. S-1 will be ready to

travel the minute igency obtains necessary permission from MiA.

"Esquater" -the Yemen bised Cuion military instructor-

S-1 renotS NEGATIVE, (StiRS?ICk-l had previously reported NEGATIVE;

Whatever decision lus takes,

would appreciate beint informed

so we can recity

5mlo

re is most dedic. ted/valuable-assest

and he one him

this

courtesy.

In past,

he has been alerted and

we have failed to notify him of abortions, and left him hangina

in mid sir.

Henry S. PiCKiKiS.

201

i : .

7496.51

---

## Page 22

— ]

1??

sạt

•1:

ii--

201-749651 I

SEANK-I.

201-749651

---

## Page 23

28 Teacuary 1975

SUSSECT:.

Contact Report on 5u15k-1. (5-1>

at his

re his

RODRISUEZ

2.

3.

Miami hose l

-Llompart.

is on 311 previous occasions when ve have asked for sl

collacoration,

S-l's AnSHer WAS APPIRiTIVE.

The only

condition

is that ve obtain nis employer's permission to

be assent

From

his present.

job.

lie is not entitled to

vacarion

until c. August 1975.

S-1 is peesently employed is a bug driver for the:

Metro pransit suchority

3300 1d 3300 avenue

Riami.

Tal:

633-9735.

The persons who must grant the permincion ire, in. this

ord:r of

rark:

H. I.

CROSS

3. Lawsuici

к. с. 3UD.3R

S-1 has.a valid US passpor

ind, he can be available to

travel. the moment his superiors grant him the leave without

we request.

have again thankod hir for his

sincere/loyal cooperation.

nave promise!!

to keep

him norenst of devolomments.

Henry so Picnitis.

---

## Page 24

FORM 30206

CADLA BIC DISSEM-BY

PER

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIEO

SECRET

-: ARYANGA COPY ISSUED ELOITER

'ACTION. UNIT

of" FiLE

LAID

ACTION *

: VA

T: 022297

EIA861

PAGE 01

TOR 2818572 FEB 75

SECRET 261030Z FEB 75 STAFF

23260 BENNIS ACTING)

CITE

TOS DIRECTOR.

REAM

REF!

DIRECTOR 661106

1.OSLANKGL CONTACTED EY PACHANKIS 27 FEB. 75./

L. AS IN THE PASTA S-1 INDICATED ME IS WILLING

TO MAKE AN

AFPROACH TO SUBJECT. PER

REF. :S-1 IS NOW

EMPLEYEU WITH THE LOCAL METRO TRANSIT ALTHORITY AND IS,

NOT QUE A VACATION UNTIL AFTER MID-1975: THEREFORE ANY

ASSENCE FROM WORK MUST BE REQUESTED BY BKHERALD AND

APPAGUEÓ BY ANY CNE UF HIS SUPERIORS IN. I. CROSS,

BAL. MALLACES

M,C, BUTLER • IN ORDER OF DESCENDING

AUTHORITYS.

3. SOI HAS VALID U.S. PASSFORT ANE CAN TRAVEL

WHEN NEEDED.

4. FILE:

261-2749651, E2. IMPDET:

REPRODUCTION BE OTHER THIN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PPONISITED

STAFF

IN 509121

1: 8::

LAK/EI

RECORD COPY

S

E C

RET

28TEB?5

201-749651

---

## Page 25

OMF 0

OUTGOIN MESSAGE

SIGHALCESTESUSE ON,$$

cos

тоо

1791

0

0

. D.

0

SECRET

MESSAGE MANN, ONE INDICATOR

STAFF

34'9 9-02

262173Z

DCI

0

DIRECTOR

13-1

cris

661l5S

DisSEM BY: 38.

100 i0Rs

магиям 1O

PER

#

TO:

REAM Y

1. HAS CONSIDERING POSSIBILITY OF USING VLADIMIR RODRIGU-

EZ LAHERA/ (201-7496513

IN APPROACH TO HIS OLD FRIEND ROBERTO

RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART {201-865547},Y

2. REQUEST PACHANKIS DETERMINE SPRESENT WHEREABOUTS OF

RODRIGUEZ LAHERA AND WHETHER OR NOT HE WILLING AND AVAILABLE TO

ASSIST IN APPROACH.Y

:. FILE: +501-749651, 201-865547 EZ, IMPDEToN

7,i6

B-201-885547

DATE:

ORIG:

26 FEBRUARY

MARY

UNIT:

EXT:

LA/COG/OPS

72293

C/LA

PLEASING CARCE*

SECRET

RECORD CORK

LAK/LA

26Te375

201-749451

REPROCUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROSIBITED

C/LAICOG

AUIFENHCAVING GEFIGEZ

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:

04.1293

і

---

## Page 26

GUAN IS

21 Decemher 1974

SUNJECT:"

Contact Report on StAlk-l. (5-1)

1.

2.

3 .

let eases in presentes sortse of

brief social

Scotch for the christmis seison.

S-1 was grateful not only for the gift but to sec ve had not

Forsotten him.

His home life soems to

have seatled down after

some cocky

porinde earlier in

une year

and no his a new, more.

secure position as bus driver for the betra transit suthority

here in Miami.

id previously reported,

he has

also

taken

the

Postal

Service exams

and would accented a letter carrier"s job

if it is offered to nim.

As always,

5-1 is ready to assist las

in any way that be can.

If Roberto

RobIss? Lliompart should ever

out again,

can be counted on to mike an approach.

ill thac

to do is to contact his employers and cocain the necessary

permission.

have

Henry s. PAcitKis.

13100

+: 0749651

/ Desity

---

## Page 27

OUTGOING MESSAGE

UNLE

AC.8

OMF 0 D

00.

D

0

0

M'ASBUICATOM

SECRET

cera

STAFF!

232254Z

DIRECTOR

CONF CLANS INFO: FLE CHIDAN, ClEURE,

0

0

0

MOXIACEFRIEARNCEPINDNM

643425

DISSEM BY: 29

NO mORE

PER

TO: PRIORITY

RYBAT REAM SLASH Y

REF:

724401 lIN 3951431 Y

61. APPRECIATE L

OFFER ATTENPT APPROACH SLASH-I:

HOLEVER, ISH STAND-DOUN FOR MOMENT ON OP, SINCE WE SEE NO

CHANCE OF SUCCESS USING ONLY NAME OF SLANK-I• Y

Z. SLANK-I DISAPPEARED SEVERAL MONTHS AGO. HENRY S.

PICHANKIS, WHO IN CONTACT WITH SLANK-L, PRESENTLY N.Y. WHERE

INVOLVED OTHER OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES, AND UNABLE RETURN MIAMI

TRY TRACK DCWN SLANK-L. WE HOPE DO SO WHEN PACHANKIS RETURNS

MIAMI, AND WILL THEN THINK IN TERMS OF SLASH-L'S NEXT TRIP OUT. Y

3. FILE: 201-355547. E2 IMPDET •N

LA COMMENT: REF OFFERED CO TO APPROACH SLASH-L USING

NAME SLANK-I CHILDHOOD FRIEND OF SLASH-IS AS

BONA FIDES.

SLANK-I

201-749651

DATE:

23 OCF 74

Chio:

VitT:

EXT:

LACEG/OPEN

922%

C/LA/COG

REPFODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TIE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO

for. cared broked

IRiPDET

CI. BY:

236=574

---

## Page 28

CABLE SEE DISSEMBL

i de, one. 19-1

SECREP

PERSON/UNIT NO:IFIED -

-AR'ANCE COPY ISSUED SLOVEU.

LA

or A a, 1745:

ACTION UNIT

RF

CLAS

FILE

VR

CHIPlAN, TEURS.

,9410p2;

ACTION "

= 90s0116,

doSi, 4ORSlINT2, 9PSlEO3

→ 513726

71Ã516

FAGE 01

TOR: 2317282008

74

NEFFODUCTION MY OTHER I

ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIDI

STAFF

- IN 395143

"SECRET 2316512 OUT 76 STAFF

24401

CITE

TOI PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

ArAT FELM SLASH

REFSI

2434 (N390175)

DIRECTOR 011511

OUTIMID OF 21 OCTOBER REPORTS THAT SLASHES WILL BE

IN MADRID FOR EN OR FIFTEEN DAYS, SUBAN EMBASSY

1S

REQUESTING ZE DAY VISA FOR HIM. SLASH-L IS IN MADRID

NEGOTIATING WITA THREE SPANISH FIAMS FOR COMPLETE EQUIPMENT

OF FLANTS FOR CUBAN MINISTRY OF MINES. NO INDICATION

YET UF WHERE SLASHL STAYING BUT EXFECT ASCERTAIN THROUGH

QUTIMID.

2. ASSUME FROM GET E THAT SLÄNK-I NO LONGER

AVAILABLE FOR LODEDGUN TU SLASHEI.

IF MOS DESIRES,

STATION

WILL A-TEMET

ADOROACH SLASH-I LSING NAME OF

SWANN •1

3.

BONA FIDES.

FILE: 201-0355647, EZ IMPDET.

11-119651

SLANK-/ 201

SECR

8306774

---

## Page 29

CRONET

B.

is close to festor kwireZ.

CURAPESCA Representative who is currently in Tokyo.

SLALOM-1 states RuitPri is approachable because RAVIREZ

is dofinitely not a Corcunist, and he thinks very nuch

like hin (SLALOT)) -

He mentioned to PACHANKIS that

he had beon:

SOS O RObErTO RODRICUEZ Liompart, a Cubar

Mining Official who often travel's to Vcxico and Canada.

D.

Gustavo MAS, Brother-in-law of the current

Cuban Ambassador to Mexico.

MaS has advised PACHANKIS

that he is willing to help us only to the extent of

deterrining the feelings of his sister and the Arbassador

at any siren

tine,

but no nore.

Ic: 411l not acccot any.

renuncration fion us and kill foot his own bill to visit

his sister.

SICCOL-1 and SLACE-1 - In describing the

forner,

PACHASIIS referied to hin as fron another

cencration,

i.e., of the Pod cless, sno could possibly.

Dc used

with any

older Cuban officials that night still

lic

around.

He cautionco however, that SlCOOL-1 had

undergone a delicate concer operation

which right

PACHASKIS

impode his usefulness.

On concern slen,

starested

that ic here

probably betier off

forgetting hir.

lie described SLACH-l as very problematical

and

then

went on to add such adiuctives

as avaricious,

s1j,

secretivo, and

i percon inclined not

to 1011Oi

through on any

last given hin.

•6. PACHANKIS bolioves that much can be done with

the above defoctors ag.inst the targets mentioned and,

himself, is anxious

to get. irvolved in another recruitment

opciation as soon is possible.

Franl: C. Esquivel

WH/.COG/FI

say pay

fire Becirndas-2ii

701-749-651

---

## Page 30

casesc oieste oi ye ven

PERSON:UNIT NOTIIRO

'ARXANERCS

ACTIONUNIT

Wite

ACTION O

•F.

• Tgià con 6 /:

2 2. 4

APRODUCTION BY OTHER !

•SEGRES

ІДИІН ОРЛІСКІВФОНІ

STAr OR2CENSA

THONN

eai 1850,;

Ve TRAN EURS OSG

cIper OstiNT estEal osctacit

/0 :

147600

E1A780

- PAGE 01-01

TUR: 2919302 MAY 74

IN 265332

WMIM 21238

SE C RET 2910267 MAY 74 STAFF

C! TE

10: F=!GR!TY

21836

INFO PRIORITY CIRECTOR.

REAM FHABOVE

FE5:

3*Tavs 23304

(iw 264930)

JUN28

19,

ASGRET TO ADVISE THAT SLANK-L WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE

FUR GPS. FRNVEL. UNTIL & JUNE 1974.. HIS EMPLOYER-INDICATED

KILL:TÜNESS FREE SLANK-1 FON TRAVEL FOR USG UNDER NORMAL

CIRCUNSTANCES: MOWEVER, TWO OF SLANK-I FELLOW HORKERS.

CURFENTLY OE JURY DUTY AND EMPLOYER REGRETFULLY UNASLE

LISSRATE SLANK-G FROM WOSM COMMITMENT UNTIL & JUNE.

?.

FTLE: 20-732726: 20102035547, 224-9324229:

E2 . !NR3ET

201-749651

8

3201-865547

RESORD COM:

S =C

ET

Wwleei

201-749651

21 may?Y

:29,A1iy7.4

---

## Page 31

#TRODUCTION OT OTHER THA

BING OFFICE IS PRONEIT#

PERSON/UNITNOTIFIED

ARYANCE COPY

ACTION UNIT

1UH8

ACTION d

N2005

STAFF

iVA

838889

EJA064

SPAGE 01-01

TOR:171957Z APR 74

IN 226286

WMIM 215g0

150221912

SECRET

17,19538 APR 74 STAFF

CITE

21548 (BEARDSLEY ACTING)

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

AKULE REAM

REF: DIRECTOR 538829

1. "PACHANKIS IN TOUCH WITH SLANK-I WHO WILLING TO TRAVEL, SLANK-I'S

NEW EMPLOYER WOULD HAVE TO BE CONTACTED BY STATION SECURITY

OFFICER

TO DETAIN PERMISSION FOR LHOP. OBTAINING INFO ON

NEW EMPLOYER TO

START. CLEARANCE PROCEDURE,

R. FILE: 201-2865449.

E-Z, IMPDET.

Ko

e;T!

201

50012

1. 621

RECORD COPY

SECRET

201-949451

11 APR 7Y

---

## Page 32

10:

DISPATCH

Chief of Station,[

CLASS!

AlION

SECRET

TO ALAINN

¿ NO MOELAG RIQUIREO

CAN HOLE INDE KING

Acting Chief, Nestern Hemisphere Division

wait Study of Cuban Defectors

ACTION REQUIRIC - BEFIRINCES

Reference: UFAA-4701, 11 January 1973

Forwarded under separate cover lis a copy of a personality

assessment report prepared by Lawrence N. SELJACK (P) con-

cerning AMNUG-1:

Linda N. QUASHNOCK

Attachment:

Assessment report U/S/C

Distribution:

3 - COS, MIl/Miami W/att U/S/C

CROSS RIFERENCE TO

RECORD COPY

DISPAICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFAW - 1709

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DIMPPET Ce E RCEZXE

OFFICE .

Distribution:

WH1/COG/Chrono

-

201-749651

1

- Originators

AN

A9

IN

LE

NES -155

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

DATE

3 0 MAY 1973

23 May 1973

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-749651

RIGINATING

TYPIST

Ngham :

COORDINATING

OFFICER'S SiARRE

1819.

OFFRE SIMEOL

C/KH/COG

FORAA

1-43

53

USE PREVIOUS

I DATE

140)

RELEASING

one signse, re ta

Lawrence Sternfield

ПІСЛАТРИ

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

TELEPOUCH

DISPATCH NO =

UFAS-2195

FILE NO

DATE

INDEX

201-749651

29 AUGUST 1972

NO

FILM

NO

-TO

CHIEF OF STATION,

INFO

FROM

- NONE

SUZJECT

ACIION

• CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

- AKULE/TYPIC/ AMMUG-!

*. SEE BELOW

REFS

• UFAT-3304, 21 AUGUST 1972

1.

AMMUG-1 WILL DE ADVISED REGARDING INTERVIEW EUT

THE PROCESSING MAY TAKE 3-6 MONTHS DEPENDING ON WORK

LOAD MIAMI INS.

E2g IMPDET.

WANDA F• BREMSON

DISTRIBUTION -

3 - coS,

/BY TAPE/

Distribution:

1 - WH/COG/CHRONO

1

WH/ COG/OS

1

Originator

1 =

201-749651

Originated byg

WH/COG/OS

x4163/

Released by:

_Ervee

C/NH/COC

€54.555

S

ECRET

---

## Page 34

I RET

Amney!

52/C06/242-92

ER August 1972

SiLJECT

of security/alien Affairs Staff

: Vladioir po2al00ee tabera

It is romansted that sollect be processed

For

naturallzatica.

Idi5 forns, comploted and signed by

Subjece, are sitached.

7070705

SECPET

---

## Page 35

CHO WILLIAN STURBITTS: ak

EXT:

1163

R. 1325

203.17 AUGUST 1972

CAULE UCCALTARIAT DIDGEMINATIGI

BY.

StAl. C01;

SECRET

0] mierx

NO INDEX

FILS. IN

CS FILE Nis. -

I RETURN TO —

- DRiNCH

O FILERIO

1.=*

Tapestcatic.

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

TO

362.

7

302184

TYPIC ANNUG

REF:

DIRECTOR 30116S

1. COPY WAUG-1 CETIZENSHEP BILL, (FRIVATE L 92-22, 30 JUNE

72) TM NO. 556051 IN 28 AUG 72 POUCH.

2. FILE:

201-7496510. EZ, INPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

1 822

THEODORE G. SIAGLEY

C/WID

E'S SOPY

ICH49H01

Icelaniki:

facinte

0/:/COC

11:.

ROmetro

c:150 4.11

1? Any 792. 0.

---

## Page 36

15:6 WHS

1985,

114. -

RE DA FILE

301/65

3 0

1165

SITiRA OLC COSE CilSO

MARCIE: C6:

C2.11

TYPIC SINUG

NoF:

M1::70 TIM 1633441

2. ° LUG-2 SIDULE COMPLETE INS EEPERE NO STATECH PORIASO

COPLETED PADORS TO HOST ATTA: CHIS C. VIGETT. TITTE LAR WILI

VEERANG NEED AND FORMED PARCES TO CLUE MORROR CARE O WASTE

Hs Piecessi.

3. OXPECT ACCOVE CORY O AMAUGH 670600 CHL 007123

1:1. 104

12

--I-id,

FS

CS COPY

201-749651

15 Quijust 22

so sain

1.15

¿::

FERFCOUCTION BY OIRES THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FOCHIBITEO

15 Hug72

---

## Page 37

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSCH/UNIT • NOTIFTED

ADVANCE COPY

issues

Pi ASSIFiED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COTES

F0001,=*

(When Filled In)

PAODUCTION OF THIS CUTTY PROHIBITED

• BY

8Y:

- AT:

Disson o

AchioN Lit

PER

15 liftee

FILE VR-

PlA

ciles, ciloA, secRe, 06C

7631

SECRET 141555L AUG

6. 12 STAFF

Tame

15470

CITEL

DIRECTOR®

653346

AKULE TYPIC AMMUG

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 291693

B. UFAT 3301

1. MR. JAMES TILLMAN OF LOCAL INS CONTACIED STATION AND

INFORMED US THAT AMMUG-I HAD CONTACIED HIM FOR ASSISTANCE IN

INITIATING NATURALIZATION PROCEEDINGS WE HAD PREVIOUSLY

ALTERED TILLMAN OF POSSIBLE AMMUG-I CONTACI FOR SUCH ASSISTANCE).

2. TILLMAN STATED HE NOT AUTHORIZED ASSIST AS PRIVATE

CITIZENSHIP BILL HANDLED BY HIS CENTRAL OFFICE WHICH MUST

AN

ISSUE INSTRUCTIONS TO LOCAL OFFICE FOR ACTION. TILLMAN

INFORMED US THAT HE GAVE AMMUG-1 VARIOUS FORMS TO COMPLETE

DiE

AND RETURN TO STATION. COMPLETED FORMS SHOULD BE FORWARDED

TO BKTRUST HQS ATTENTION ALIEN AFFAIRS STAFF WHICH SHOULD REVIE ACE

AND THEN FORWARD ON TO INS CENTRAL HQS. INS HQS WILL THEN

¡VISE LOCAL OFFICE WHAT ACTION TO TANE, AFTER WHICH AMMUG- 1

WILL BE GRANTED CITIZENSHIP.

3. PLEASE ADVISE SOONEST WHETHER ASOVE PROCEDURE CORRECT

C5 CGFY

SECRET

irring Th

201-779851

---

## Page 38

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON /UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COFY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

a16; 283

BY:

DISSEM EY

ACTION UNIT

TETION NO

AT:

PER

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

24 AM °77.

REGEWED

IPTEDT

ROUTING AND /OR INITIALS-SEEN DY

2

3

FILE, VR

PAGE 2

115470 SECRET

AND WHAT ELSE MUST BE DONE SO WE CAN ADVISE AMMUG-I WHAT TO

DO WHEN HE, AND HE WILL VERY SHORTLY, CONTACIS US.

4• ALSO REQUEST DATE WHEN WE CAN EXPECT RECEIVE COPY OF

AMMUG-1 CIIIZENSHIP BILL.

FILE: 201-749651.

E2 IMPDET WN- SISMO

5.

SECRET

21110501103

SECRET •

---

## Page 39

: ECRET

DISPAICH. NO

DATE

FILE

TELE POUCH

UFAT 3301

2A JILY 1972

291-749651

CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

FROM

SBUJECT

REF

CHIEF OF STATION

TYPIC/AMPUG - AMMUC/I REENTRY PERMIT

DIRECTOR 289899

FORWARDED UNDER SEPARATE COVER IS AMMUG/I'S REENTRY

PERMIT FOR DELIVFYP TO IGNS.

STANLFY F• SPECKER

ATTACHMENT: USC (VIA POUCH 2469(7) 6 1972)

DISTR IPUT ION

VIA TELEPOUCH.

3. CAWNDS WAATT USC

EX -2 APDIR, WN-SISM

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SECRET

T/N/P

USC ATTACHNENT TO UFAD-3301 (TELEPOUCH)

TO: C/WIID

FROM: COS,

SECRET

---

## Page 41

1/.

CURES HOPKINS CU

Wil/COG/OS

•1163

19 July 1972

"PLE SECKLTANAS DISSIMINATION

33

int.

Tani denti

&CRET

DO INDER NONICA DO RETURNTO

RILE IN CS FILE POI

o 1

kremiamon

SECRET

A57.5aJ

002172 23 122

CITE DIRICTOR

291693÷

REF:

15074 (IN 619499)

I. PRESIDENT SIGNED ASIUG-L CITIZENSUTP BILL (P.L. 92-02)

30 JUNE. A-I MAY NON INCUCUTE NATURALIZATI ON PROCLEDINGS.

?. FILE:

201-7.19351. EX-2, AFDIR, WN-SIS:I.

AND OF MEGSIGE

Chis fule

(Alice)

OLc fat Cuneutier (tolocord)

1/1/6227

F.

THEODORS

GO SILICKLAR

fr C/lilD

RELEASING PIFICI

S

C° 00:1

CRET

11:4:

CHILLS BUTLE

19 Jirl, 72

729651

-c."

carrin.

---

## Page 42

14-00000

•CUTING ANDION INITIALS - SEENDY

$:

GUTS LOPKINS: aK

4103

R. 1325

11 JULY 1972

1UH 818 me vA.

(ciassitication

SECRET

8-5887

ToTAL CapIrS:,

SEC R'ET

INDEX

E: NO INDEX

FILÉ IN CS FILENO.

IPIAN, SECURY

de: a and

149572 20 282

2.1

RETURN TO -

- BRANCH

CITE DIRECIOR

focal

2898007

TYPIC. AMMUG

1. HOBONE HAS REQUESTED AIDIUG-1 REENTRY PERVIT FOR DELIVERY

IENS. PLS POUCH SOONEST.

2. FILL: 201-749651. Ex-3, droor, sN-10900s

END OF MESSAGE

66.81

§:..

C ..

anale Bel

i.?.::

JEROES SMACKLEY

C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER.

11 Jily 72

05/115 John Rooney (telecoora 01 - 749p5/

LAKR

STERNFIELD

C/171/C0G

KH/SS

COOPINATES LANs

SECRET

AUTHEITICATING

CFFICIR

COPY A:O.

---

## Page 43

ich arcrer, espas, erased.

te him for deilvery to is.

apparertly did not.

He rante dire

Al jord was

a-peset to a

midt returned

this, but

pas. 1Un is Vladimir B00-:02

Viami.

ето,

s* -cuid

te rade to

Bernie

/: i jun police fian de this

Am

201-749451

My wile do

---

## Page 44

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CISSREDGES NGE

PERSON AT NOTIFIED

ADVASCE COPY

• SECRET

(foren filled in)

RESPONIC:CO OF THIS COPY FROMBiED

ROUTING AND OR iNTIALS. SEEN E

'BY:-

AT:

DISSEM BY -235

ACTION UNIT

WHO

0D0

PER

• FILE VR

• U

SECRET JOLSE WITZ STATF

CITE

15075.

DIRECTOR.

ARLIE, TYPIC AMNUG

Idea it

REFS.

7:5071@649499)

IDEN:

VLADIMIR

RODRIGUEZ LAMERA

SECRET

649500

GPo1

SECRET

30.0072

BDi.749651

---

## Page 45

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

FERSON LAY NOnED

CLASSRED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 8-1 ROUTING AND OR INIALS SEEN EY

•SECRET

(When Filled In)

TM955тKД7ИN

POOUCTION OF THIS COPY PRONISITEO

BY:

AT:

DISSEM BY,

29/30

ACTION LINIT

ẶChiON NO:

565

CITE

SECRET 3014382 JUN 72 STAFF

5074

DIRECTOR.

AKULE TYPIC AMMUG

REF:

DIRECTOR 283581

FILE VR

PLAN

, OLC, ClOPS, SECURI

AMMUG -1 PLANS NO LEGAL NAME CHANGE. WILL FILE

NATURALIZATION PETITION AS IDEN.

FILE:

201-749651. GP=1

SECR

ET

Felor in emsis i 5075

649499

AB-X

SECRET

50 Jun 2i

1701. 747657

---

## Page 46

GIRIS HOPKINS: ch

::11/006/OS

-T:

÷165/1525

26 JNE 1972

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSIMINATION

ESECRET

INDex.,

O NO INDIA

E: FiLE IN ES FILE NO.

_ CHANCH

D'FibERId

SECREI

272572 21 412

CITE DIRECTOR

7

283581

TYPIC ANNUG

1. SENATE FASSED AN UG-1 CITIZENSHIP SILL PRESIDENT'S SIGNITURE

EXPECTED WITHIN 6 TO 10 DAYS. FLS ADVISE IF A-I FLA'S LECU WE QUNGE

AT TINE HE FILES PETITION FOR NITURALIZATION.:

2. FILE: 201-7÷9651.

10O€/001PENT:

END OF MESSAGE

Tre Office of Logislative Counsel wants to Jaci if A-l, a Dal officer sho

defected to the li.s.

in 196i, plas io change his name sion he files

petition for naturalization in near future.

OLC

Ne. Carpentic (Teleccord)

wiss 84490

LUM/F/

TECTORE G. SHICE 2 2.

204749601

27einé 1972

• INTENCE M. STERIFIELD

C/12/005

MALE CELESTA

SECRET

RELEASIG OFFICER

-.o19l6A11:Z49

er/icei.

Gang tic.

---

## Page 47

CABLE SECRETARIAT UISSEMINA TOW

PERSOR LVY NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

IssuED

FLASSIFID

• TOTAL FUMES -

SECRET

Said tied In)

ACTOS CE THIS COPY PRONIBITED

POUTAG ANDIOR INTIALS SEEN DY

__ AT:

DISSEy BY, 35.

•ACTION UNIY

PEA

WH8

FILE, VR

IAN

AcTionna

1661

SECRET 27ILLE WON 12 STAFF

15059

CITE

DIRECTOR.

AKULE TYPIC AMMUG

REF: DRIECTOR 250368

SECURY

27 JEN IN 646464

RD

1o. REQUEST STATUS

AMMUG/I CITIZENSHIP BILL WHICH PER

REF BEING CONSIDERED BY SENATE.

20: FILE: : 201-749651 GP-1

SECRET.

A.1

COPA

SECRET

200067601

27046851972

---

## Page 48

A letter, with attached memorandum, dated October 6, 197l, to the

chairton of the Committer on the Judiciary of the House of Repre-

sentatives from the Commissioner of Immigrtion und Naturaliza-

tion with referenue to the case, reads as follows:

IM MICHITIOS

AND AITERULIZITION SERVICT

Waslungton, D.C., October 6, 1971.

A-13721084

Chairman. Committee on the dudiciory,

House of licpreventatives. Waxhington, Df

Des din. Carsores: In response to your request for a report rola-

tire to the bill (MR. 2076) for the relief of Viadimir Rodrignez La-

llera, there is attached a memorandum of information concerning the

beneficinry.

The bill is apparently intended to permit the leneficiars to become

naturalee as a citizen of the Chite States not withstanding his in-

cligibility tocitizonship leg reason of his membership or adiliation with

an organization as proscribed in section sl of the Immirration and

Nationality er. Ile has leen a lawful permanent résident of the

United States since April 29, 1061.

Sinerrely,

PITSOND F. FARLEN

Commissioner.

MENORANDCH OF ISFUNSATION FROM INIMICRITION AND

NATLEMALITIOS

SARVICE FILES KY MIR. 2076

The beneficiary, Vladimir Rodriguez Laller, a native and.

citizen of Cuba, was born on February 6, 1937.

His parents

and two brothers are natives, citizens anil residents of Cubn.

Ile márried Marion Cuca-Calla, a narive and citizen of Cuba,

08 Auguse 18, 1900, In Marana, Cuba. This marriage was

terminateel he divorce in October 1959. There was no issie of

this mion. On December 17, 196%, the beneficiary married

Luisa Borigiez: Timoneda, a native and estizen of Cula, in

Ilasana, Caba, She was born on August 2t, 1937, in Masana,

Cuba, and is a lawful permanent resident of the United

States. One child,

Luisa

mas born of this marring on

May 26, 1070, in Miami. Fla, and is a citizen of the (nitel

lodricure marriage to

Plente del Rosario

were horn

of this marriage in Marana, Cuba,

Masimiliano. on

Angust El, 1900, and Francisca Luciana.

on January ü, 1932. The los died in Siami, Fla, in 1965 and

reside with the beneficiary in Miami. Fla.

S. Rept. SSO

nativo countrs. Sine Thramber 1066, he has been emplosed

as a supervisor of feel hanillers for a local aircraft catering

sersicent a makly slarof St10. Prior to his prescut em:

ployment. he was a market march salesman for a local nd.

vertising companie llis wife. is emploved ass machine

operatorifor a lal inse manufactior at a meckle salary of

Sod Their combimed nssors consistine of two

automobiles;

real ned personal property and poisions, total Sis,500. The

mal property tears a mortance of sira00.

The benchelary arrived in clie United States from Canada

on April ele it. at Thousand Islands: Bridre:

. To and

was paroled into the United States for an indefinite period

under the parole provicions of the Immigration and Sation-

ality Act. On Sovember 7, 1906. his status was chunged to

that of a lawful permanent resident of the United States and

the date of his admision recorded as of April 29, 1064.

On his alien mcistration: form the loneliciare listed emie

ployment. with the General Directorite of Intollipoice of

the Cuban Government from unct 16, 196% until April 21,

106e, just prior to his defration. He also showed military

service in the Cuban Bekel Army from Februars, $, 1009,

until December 2 lMil.

The laneficiary desires to become a citizen of the United

States because of his long period of residener and to enhance

his opportunity for advancement in his vocation.

Private bill ILK. BiTto, Dist Congress, introduced in the

Ieneficiary's behalf was not enacted.

The committee, after consideration of all the facts in the cise, is of

the opinion that the bill (ll. R. 2070) should be enacted.

S. Hept SSO

---

## Page 49

DED CONGRESS

Id Sessich

SENATE

Chris Hol bus

13038

P. L. Carpenter OLC

Calendar No. 841

REPORT

No. 92-880

VLADIMIR RODIGUEZ IsHERA

JExE 11, 1052-ruemad to le printed

MIr. EsTaND, from the Committee on the Judiciary,

submitted the following

REPORT

[To accompany H.R. 2078)

The Committce.on the Judiciary, to which was referred the bill

(H.R. 2076) for the relief of Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera, having

considered the same, reports favorably thereon without amendment

and recommends that the bill do pass.

FUROSE OF THE BILI.

The purpose of the bill is to enable Vladimir Rodriguez Lallera

to filo a petition for naturalization, notwithstanding the fact that he

sas formerly a member of a proscribed organization.

STATESIEST OF FACTS

The beneficiary of the bill is a 35-year-old native and citizen of Cuba,

shose status was adjusted to that of n lniful resident alien on No.

rember 7. 1006. retroactive to April 29, 196%; the date on which he was

parolei into the United Statca from Canada. He resides in Minmi, Fla,

with his wife. a lawful resident alien, and to daughters. The bene-

ficiary was employed in Cube with the General Directorate of Intelli-

gence, and serveil in the Cubnn Rebel Army. Without enactment of

the bill, the beneficiary would be unable to petition for naturalization

until 1074.

83-007

---

## Page 50

A letter, with attached menorandum, dated Detoler G, 1071, to the

chairman of the Committce on the Judiciary of the House of Repres

sentatives from the Commissioner of Immeration and Naturaliza

tion with referonec to the case, reads as follows:

IMMIICRATION AND NATUENIZATION SPITT,

Washington, D.C, Netober 6, 1971,

1-13721681

ITon:

Chairman. Committee on the Judiciary,

Hoine of lie presentatives, Warhington; D.C.

Dea SIR: Choison: In response to sour request for a report rola-

tive to the bill (1.l, 2076) for the rebef of Vladimir Rodrignog Ta-

Hera. there is attached a memorandom of information concerning the

The bill is apparently intonded do. pormit the leneficiary to lecome

naturalizel as a citizen of the United States notwithstanding his in-

chaaleo to citizenship by reacon of has membershp or alhation with

an organsation as prosershed in soction 81s of the Immigration and

Nationality Art. He has been a lawful permanent resident of the

United States since April 29, 1064.

sincerels,

RATIOND F. FUCKER

Commissioner.

SIEMORINDCS OF INROKMATION FROM IMSEIGRITION AND

SATLINLIZATIN SEEVICE FILES RE MR. COG

Tho beneficiary, Vladimir Rodriguez Tallera, a native and

citizen of Cuba, was born on February 6, 19:r. His parents

and two brothers are natives, citizens and residents of Cuba

Ile married Marion Cuen-Callo, a native and citizen of Cuba

on August 18, 1039, in Tarana, Cuba.

1his marriage wis

terminated lo chicore in October 1959. There was no issue of

this union. On Jecember 17, 106%. the kenefcary marri

Tuisa Rodriguez-Timonela, a native and Citizen of Cuba, in

Tarana, Cobe, She was born on August 31, 1054, in Harand,

Cuba. and is a 'inful permanent nsulont of the United

States. One child, Luisa,

sas

born of this marriage

May 25, 1970, in Miami, Fla, and is a citizen of the finited

states

Mr. Rodrigues

marringe to. Ficente del Rosario

Herndes-Garcia on Soptember 8, 1919, in Havana. Cuba,

was terminated by divorce October 1, 1908. Tro children

were born

of this marringe

in Mavana, Cuba, Vincente

Maximiliano,

on

Angust 2l,

1900, and Francisa Luciana.

on January 7, 1952. The hoy died in Miami, Fla, in 196S and

the girl became a naturalized eitizen of the linited States on

September 2, 1971. JIrs: Rodriguez and her tro daughters

reside with the beneficiary in Miami, Fla.

The loneficiary obtainod the equivalent of S wears of ele-

mentary education and 2 years of vocational shool in his

S. Rept. SS0

nutive countrs. Since December 1006. he has been employed

as a supervisor of food handlers forn local aireraft catering

strico at a weckly salary of 8110, I'rior to his present cm-

plorment, he was a' market resch salesman for'n local nd-

vertising

company.

Ilis wife is emplored as a minchine

operator for a-local dress manufacturer at a mohly salar of

So. Their conbuned assets consisting of two

automobiles,

real and personal property and posessions, total $83,500. The

real property beats a mortgagc of $17.500.

The beneficiars arrived in the United States from Canada

on April 20.

W6k.at Thousand astands Bride.

M.T., and

was paroled into the United States for an indrtinite perioc

under the parole provisions of the Iniiigration and Nation-

ality det. On Movember o, 1960, his status sons changed te

that of a lawful permanent resident of the Liniteil States and

the date of his admission recorded as of April 29. 106t.

On his alien epistration forin the beneficiars listed eni-

Ployment with the literal Directorate of Intelligene

of

the Cuban Government from Aurust 16. 1063 until April 21

1001, just prior so his defootion. Ilo also showed military

serrice in the Cuban Bebel Army from February 4, 1939,

until December 20. 1961.

The lenolicro desires to become a citizen of the United

States beemse of his long period of residence and to enhance

his opportumty for advancement in his vocation

Private bill II.R. 17740. gist Congress, introduced in the

beneficiary's behalf was not enacted.

The committer, after consideration of all the facts in the cuse, is

the opinion that the bill (Il.R. 2076) should be enacted.

S. Rept. '3SC

---

## Page 51

5158

ELTALLED JUSTIFIGATILN AV ISSESSINT

1. Vladimir RODRIGUEz Lailera has ccoperated citi

tlis Açoncy since his defoction ch 21 April 1967 at which time he

turned over to CIA docents from the General Directorate of

Intelligence (DGI) he had collected during the preceding several

In addition, he has provided volminous,

valuable inforation on the organication

of the Cuban intelligence

services, their eperations, staff mcabers and agents. These

documents and infomation have givon us the potential and

opportunity to tako effectivo nonsures to saiccuard United States

Goverment interests.

Scioet has been of great value in the

be in the arture.

the CIA recruitment/

lefection progra.

liis wide acquintance anone and krouledge

concerning high level Cuban diplonats and Cuban intelligence personnel

the drency with the necessarv background in

planning

operations against them and makes

Subioct ideal for use in carming

out the operations.

Mis talonts and contacts have been used not

only in

furthering the defector program,

but in other types of

political action, psychological varfare

and recruitrent operations.

2. As a result of technical interrogations of RODRIGUEZ

on 11 May 106% and again on 15 July 1966, and chicctive orerational

testing since, his bona tides have been established not only for

intclligence exploitation purposes but also for the purpose of

rescitlement in the United States.

There is no reason

to helieva

is under the control of any hostiie

intolligence service.

The psychiatric and periodic medical examinations have

shown that

KODRIGUET

has no serious medical or psychiatric

problems.

4.

Mr. RODRIGUE E has adjusted vell to American life.

He has been trained as a dental tochnician and for the past tro

years has boch working for the Marriott Corporation, spocifically

201-749651

---

## Page 52

as manager of the airlines' catering division in Miami. He is

pleased with this new occunation.

that he would be a responsible and lojal citizen.

There is cvery reason to cxpect

---

## Page 53

DISPATCH' NUMBER

LUFAA - 4021

BERLIN?OR 12888K8

SECRET

.:when Filled in)

POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

DATE

PAGE MUNDER

7. Apri 172

GRAPN NUMEER

2

SECURITY REGULATIONIS) VIOLATED

FR 1 315, 1 July 53; Pira 3 6(1) (a

E OF VIOLATION

Rel: UFAA 40i8

Use of crypt + Trie dentify in sume

4tht side pouch spainfully this is the use at

"Cuban deferters" enchisgulch and sending the despiter

n pruit wheck his other dispatches if same format

and basic subjait, but using

the crypt for luba

RID. ANALYST

6-84

2244

SECRET

---

## Page 54

cassianna

SECRET

XX

Chich or Sualion,

European Division

Cules of Siation,

penures/paotographs

of Cuban Diplomats in

RICHARD: RiFiRiNCES

PROCESSING ACTIOR

SCARRIO 102 INDEXING

NO INDIKING REQUIRES

ONIY QUALIFIED DESK.

CAN MOGE INDEKING

AN:CROFIA

Reicreace:

OFPW 46605, 2 Xarch 1972

<The photograghs of peira Concepcion| Barr

Garcia 4(201-354152,

carlos EstebartleR a mos

Frias

20: -522501)

victoriam signet

Urena: (201-826455)

Zanora (202-SSS367) and wife and Marco

mo.ananion

Tanajo (201-886144) and his wife were

reviewed with StAg defector aultid on 6 April 1972 with

negative resuits.

Cuban defeciorsho are the responsibility of

he will advise you of any posicive results.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

Distribution:

COS, L

- Chier, EURD re de E/El!

DOC. MICRO: SER.

APR 131972

MICROFILMED

FOUCH S22.07:

VIOLATION

TO FLOLD DIS...

ES COPI

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND SUNGETT

UEAA-4021

CLASHE CATION

SENTET

DATE

Typed:

HOS FILE NUMBIR

April 1972

201-749651

---

## Page 55

14-00000

iNFo.

SUSXC7

and at an "s no ina

Chior of amdion,

Chiot, Trioth demispiero Division;Chief, EUR

Chief of Siatior,

PARN/SADOVE-Felix M. MILIAN Pantoja (201-833219)

ACTION RIQD.R13 • EsteRancis

PXULESSIAG AGICA

¡ MARIO NOR WORNS

¡NO INDIXING MIQURIO

•ONIY QUAIE.EO DISA

•CAN JUOGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Roforence:

OCO:-16S03, 11 March 1972

The protographs ci folix! Mi lian

Pantoja

(Subject) and his wife, LuisaN. GOnzalez

sabio,

Wate liviorod

with AUG-1 on 6 April 1972.

While GOXZALEZ::

wis caniliar

to A.UG-1 le could not provide any information

o: her.

not, howevei, ¿ocognize subject.

no will revier the photographs of Subject and

his wife with the other defectors wio are the responsibility

of walliani and advise you of any positive rosults.

siation is most appreciative of the high quality

photograpis that we have recently been receiving from

SHACK Via SHADOVE.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

3

CoS,

- Cries,

-

Chies,

WED.

EUR

5x 3:22

3S REFERENCE 15

-301-22965

DIPAICH SYMBOL ASS NUMBLE

1014

LE TASSITICATIOS

FoR Good Fire t:

221-

DATE

Typed:

7 April 1972

201-533219

---

## Page 56

Sia and

Sardin

Matra Macamiro Division:

Londa Division

Casinor Sinidon

¡MARKID FOR INDIANG

AQ INDEXING PIQUIRED

ONLY QUAIBID GISE

CAN •JOLE INDEKIG

MICROFILAS

DEOLND ZOlaadO iTaSES de la Hoya (201-771827)

Resdrence:

Oard 97498, 23 february 1972

Copics of the original photographs of Rolando

s de la Hoya and his wife, Sara Mantesa

comalek, which weie

forwarded to us by Headquarters, were

Hardowed with a'STAFF defector duMUG-l on 6 April 1972 with

nogative results.

The photographs will be reviewed with

oine: Cuban derectors who are the responsibility of

and we will advise you of any positiveresults.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

Distributson:

-COS,

- COS,

2

- Chief, EURD

9128121

CcL:72/127

CROSS REFERRITO

÷0=5:16351

¡ DiSPAICH SYMBOL AND NGMBER

•UFAA-1019

CLASSEICATION

D'EX.h: 501

FC 67175

Fille 1

201-

744651

•TATE

[TYPED:

7 April 1972

NOS FILE AUMGIR

201-771827

---

## Page 57

• HOUTING ANDIOR INITIALS

•'BERN 88

ORIGI ALBERT

AMORI: GHD

SECRETA

C/ 2617/5010

DAIC 31 MARCH BITC

CADLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONn

C INDEX

• NO INGES

L'TIS IN ES FILE NO

410

FILE RELIA 11.

(date and lime blod)

(classification)

SECRET

1a72 00

37₴

DO RETURN TO

-BRANCH

DILE RIO

Petite?

"(reicience number

TO

Г.

AMMUG

I HOUSE PASSED AMMUG-1 CITIZENSHIP BILL. BILL NOW IN SENATE.

MAY TAKE AMOTHER MONTH BEFORE DECISION REACHED.

Z. FILE: 202-7496530 GP-L

END OF NESSAGE

501 749451

While

JARES E

AC/UND

LAURENCE STE

C/LI/COG

HELEASING OFFICER

r.n.

COCFOINAIIIG OFFICERS

i Rockies Monruse-malle

r.1.

5-E-C-R-E-1

REPRODUCTION DY OTHCR THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO

COPY NO

---

## Page 58

CONFIOEUTML

EXCERPT FROM JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Thursday - 24 February 1972

- Kit.

3. (Confidential - JGO) Met with Mr. Garner J. Cline, Counsel,

Subcommittee No. l, House Judiciary Committee, who told me that there would

be no problem with the Democratic objector relating to H. R. 2076, a bill for

the relief of Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera.

Mr. Donald Benn, Associate Counsel

of the Judiriary Committee, has not touched base as yet with the Republican

objector but will do so before the private calendar is cälled on 7 March.

Ar. Cline told me also foat the Davis bill, FaR. 5176 was formally

abied by the fall Committee in ita meeting of 22 February. The tabling wa

without discussian on the basis of an adverse recommendation by the Subcommittee.

See Memo for Record dated Il February 1972 on A Trevor Gallahek.

immug-!

COMFOSITAL

---

## Page 59

COMFIDENTIAL

EXCERPT FROM JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL.

3. (Confidential - JGO) Met with Mr. Drury Blair, Senate Immigration

and Naturalization Subcommittee staff, who told me that due to the primaries

in the Chairman's home state he did not believe that any further meetings of the

Subcommittee will be held until mid June. H.R. 2076, a bill for the relief

of Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera, is on the agenda for the next Subcommittee

Mies Chris Hopkins, WH Division, has been advised.

Jakfre

for us itini;

Bill for liard

---

## Page 60

1G?

PERNICT CURRENTELE: AN

no. N11/006/F1

7365

I 102B 8 72

9229

BLE SCCHEIANIAT MISCCIINATION

(7 19 INCE

biz.

(classriration)

SECRET

KH/MIAMI

TYPIC ANETROPIA

REF:

and torna died".

17t5т2 22 022

Police)

INFO:

CITE DIRECTOR

223810

113554 (1X 633339)

1.

AGREE WITH REE CRITERIN FOR FORTUER FURSUIT AHETROPIA/1

CASE.

2. FILE: 201-865557 180 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE

KH/COG/COMMENT: Miami suggests te rot position

ANMUG/1 for possible

contact with TROglA/1

until he is POS or ToyI

long enough to permit in

orierly approach.

749651

-

JAMES E. FLANNERY

AC/WHD

c/01l/CO6

PELLASING OFFICER

SEC PIT

AUTUr iTICATING

CISICIA

REPRODUCTIC BY CINE MIME MAMAGER! IS TROHITEN.

cory No.

17 Feo72.

---

## Page 61

11: 'CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSENINATION CIRCO MESSAGE PETAL COPIES 23-1

ROUTING AND:OR INITIALS-SEEN

ERDON UNIT POTIPIRO.

GEORE"

*When les la

ADVANCE COM Liver

DUCTICHOF THIS COPE RACHiDITIO

• 8:

35

CHION UNI

WH8

ACTION NỌ

123

FILE: VR

C/AN,

EUR6, FI, C/Cilors, clica

SECRET 152128Z

72 CITE

13854

INFO DIRECTOR

15 FEB N 538389

AKULE TYPIC AMEIROPIA

REF:5857 (11537685)

1o. APPRECIATE REF INFO ON ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ

LLOMPART. BELIEVE, MOWEVER, THAT YOUR PRIORITY TARGETS

RIGHTFULLY TAXE PRECEDENCE OVER IMIS RATHER ELUSIVE

ONE AND SUGGEST THAT WE STAND DOWN ON ANY EFFORI TO

POSITION AMMUG-I FOR POSSIBLE CONTACI.. THIS, UNTIL

SUCH TIME THAT RODRIGUEZ IS PCS OR

IN A IDY STATUS

LONG ENOUGH TO PERMIT AN ORDERLY APPROACH.

2. FYI: ANGAME-I WHO KNOWS RODRIGUEZ, ASSESSES

HIM AS BEING A WURTHNHILE TARGET AND PUSSIBLY RECRUITABLE:

3. FILE: 261-865547, 291-816552, 201-7456510 GPL.

SECRET

DURGICARE COPE

FOR GROSS FILING IN

201- 74965/

(S (p) 13 2201- 865572

CS Cr

SECRET

15Fi672

---

## Page 62

Chel, looters Bentepture Diviales

calas as Blasterd

Bopino (201-904009)

Reference:

FA 11609, 10 December 1971

1. Pilo ANN! lanadlatoly rocogataod tha

pietegragh of Didjeot ubich ma forvardod in Boference,

No lil so710a

rosalia.

Porvassad tarovish le a dobrieting ropert frus

18 after revieting this report.

Mesico elty isa dy addicional roguiresanto for AaRANg-1,

no till ba glad to convied the.

BS$000 D. MLO0CH

Asteakants

Ropors, boresta

torewith

8 - CRies,

Say othes

Is on 10 1 201_8248600

801-891873, 801-802363

8037406849

892-810039

UFAA 9771

SECRET

Typed:

749651

81 LaRsArY 1978

201-024800

213an72

---

## Page 63

PERROR VAI NOTTIES

ADVANCE COPY

BLOTTED

_ TOTAL COPIE 2 S- / ROUTING AND CA INITIALSSEEN

SECRET

4901189

when foled in

ACCUSTION DE THIS CEDI PESMIBITER

40

- I-

= LAHS A FEV, PIAN, EURE, C1, CloPs, alicE, EL

257

•SECRET 172I43Z JAN 72 CITE

INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC SMABOVE

REF A OCUA 16526

13595

17 JAN IN 5/5283

B UFAA 3597

1a PRIOR IO FEBRUARY CONFERENCE WE INTEND TO REVIEW

ALL PHOIOGRAPHS OF PBRUMENS STATIONED

WITH THOSE

AMSTAFF/AMQUAKE DEFECTORS WHO ARE RESPONSIBILITY OF

PLEASE FORWARD ANY AVAILABLE COPIES OF I.D.

PHOTOS FOR INDIVIDUALS LISTED REF B.

2 FYI! VALUE OF SUCH A REVIEW IS UNDERLINED BY

• AMMUG-I'S RECENI RECOGNITION OF JORGE DE LA VEGA

VIGNON (201-815556) VIA SUCH A PHOTO. UNFORIUNATELY,

AMMUG-I WAS UNABLE TO IDENTIFY VEGA AS BEING INTEL.

3. FILE: 201-815356, 201-749651, 19-2-160 GPI.

SECRET

ES My MOM: 19-2.6

FOR Crude File t

201-749651

SECRET

12 Jan 72

---

## Page 64

SECRET

cates of Station, Musico C147

Chio, Wootern Mosniphore Divistea

caled of starlond

Passara/Perenno 010r9

Bepieo (901-034800)

Boferenoos 11MA 41408

viral all sos recupale to photograpa ol

Forminto c0 8 o O Bopino valeà sas servarded by

Roferenes, Ma sotograpa vill bo abom to AmnUD),

ARABLED I, ARGIE I ANd ASCARILI AB ERO P1558 opportunIty.

Santaco D. 1LO0C

Dietributies:

• COJ, Basteo C18y.: i!'

• Calol, 5109

C Cha 1 201: 824860

4 801-749651

E7AA-9738

570%

231-

DUPLICATE CO2Y

FOR GROSS FILEG IN

748651

Typod: 10 drasy 1078)

401 624669

---

## Page 65

ASSING ECHOS

DISPATCH

chier of Station, exite Chi

so points siesto

chief or sition,

poxbus/ Enrique Gond% Coita (001-127221)

deserence: de be netin

COMIN

a 1il0G-1 failed to iduiiify the picture i blinue

#GO

ne: Carliz

nichiwan forres

sperence or

will of cons6,

derick the chote.rrdt with

tha other

A:STAFF/AQUAKE deFCCROR: thO 280

the ironichlity of the

¡wind station and advise jou de the irstlid.

According to pranaph o of terrot

the extiste ritht a lle

it is entiroly possible that to die

mistaken,

at the extrone right u? the photograph deals

resemblance to the calrollin: photograp: of subjoct which

forwarded to us vin Heicronce b.

He sould appreciate it if you waid review the photographs

which were forwarded via Roferences did s it!

reconfire that

they arc indeed of subject.

to this dispatch,

conies of the photographs which we deceived

to facilitate this tis.

justace D. 18.000K

Attachments: Photographs, l/i

Disiribution:

D:.

/ ;

6312: " 201-7?2321

¡ DISPERS SYM3CL ANO NOMEE

L711-3731

749651

11-719551

• Jail

TYPAD: 10 392005} 1072

201-177321

---

## Page 66

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 67

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, Western featoriore civision

Chief of Station,

prime solson quesada

SM RIGUID REINIS

REFERENCES:

211-11202;

PESCISSING A TIEN

Again led too dis

Rivere (201-020379)

Torchlic: 1971

butcher

197L

1x4-11353, 13 Decenter 1971

The delay in respondins io nuferince dis request that

a picturc of Jubject be icrioved with the appropriate assets

was due to the fact that prior o the receipi of the leference I

photographs, we inched i cood picture on Jubject.

that the picture of subjuct, sieg in tolue la of the Cuban

Mughooks, was somethin!;

iess than salisiactory for the purposes

or positive identification.

Innediately upon the recript of thu avierence E

the undersigned revicwed cit a00-1

Riveru vith negative results.

however, did recognize ile mic of lucond. and adestified him

as being AlSTAFs.. decdiess to say, he will show diGlE-l

the photosraph of Subiece at the earliest opportunity to

well he knous him and if varranted, will debrief

him in detail on Subject.

3.

•The Reference E photograph of Sibjuct will be reviewed

with the other AUSTiFF/A:QUiE assets residin; in the J'iCODRA

arca and we will promptly inform you of the results.

Eustice Do KLOOCK

Distribution:

3-COS/iexico Citj -o1r

sti

CS. 000) 110 " 201.836329

* REFERINCE TO

281=318333

ESPARN SYMSEL AND RUNGER

LTA:-3732

2,749651

CATE

TYDED:

7 January 1912

201-530379

---

## Page 68

A-0000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

] PERSON/UNIT NOTIPiRO

ADVANCE COPY

INSURO

PASS'IED MESSÄGE. TOTAL SPIES

SECRFT

(iVhen Filled In,

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS SEEN BY

5

30

ar -

AY:-

DIESEN BY.

ACTION UNIT

WH8

ACTION NO.

259

SECRET 291300Z NOV

FILE, VR

CP/AN, EUR 6, C/OPS, 61/102, El, DDP, ADDR

LUCITEN

1[5141)

23 Nov IN 4 7 9487

DIRECTOR INFO

"o.

SER

TYPIC AMETROPIA/AMUG

REF/

1313S (N 478415)

rcar

1972

204023

AFTER GUTIMID CONVERSATIONS INDIATED AMETROPIA-I*

DUE ARRIVE EACH DAY 23-25 NOVEMBER, SUBJECT FINALLY APPEARED

25 NOVEMBER. RUSEQUIN AT AIRPORT DID NOT NOTE ARRIVAL AND

STATION COGNIZANI ONLY THROUGH QUTIMID MONITORING AFTERNOON

27 NOVEMBER. AFTER NEGATIVE QUSEQUIN-37 CHECK OF HOTELS NOR-

MALLY FREQUENTED BY CUBANS, PHONE CALL TO

WHERE CUBANA AIRCREWS STAY) RECEIVED ANSWER THAT

TARGET HAD CHECKED IN 26 AND LEFT 27 NOVEMBER. (AIRLISTS

LATER SHOW LARGEI WENT TO KAVANA ON 28 NOVEMBER AND

AFTER-ACTION CHECK

REVEALS OTHER CUBAN DIP WITH

SAME PATRONYM MAD REGISTERED AND DEPARTED ON DATES SPECIFIED).

2.:

AMMUG-1 LEAVING FOR NEW YORX BY IBERIA 951 ON 29

NOVEMBER AND ETA MIAMI 1900 HOURS ON EASTERN 027. ADVANCED

-$100 (I/A MIAMI)-TO COVER PURCHASE NEW TICKET SINCE FULL

VALUE RETURN TRIP GOOD ONLY FOR PERIOD LONGER THAN 17 DAYS.

3. TARGET'S EVASIVENESS MAY REFLECT TIGHIENED MEASURES

3204845547

ES COPY

SECRET

2% Ness

---

## Page 69

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

FIRSON WAIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

IDDUED

AT:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP I

Icide Dense adrenalt

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

JAm 25: 8'% PH °72

IROHARDED

ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS-SEEN BY

DIDATE.

ACTION UNT

ACTION NO.

FILE, VR

PAGE 21

15141 SECRET

FOR AMWHEN DEFECIION. HE DID NOT SIAY AI USUAL HOTEL.

QUSEQUIN TRAVEL CONTROL PROCEDURES OVIOUSLY DEFICIENT.

AMMUG-I GAVE PROFESSIONAL PERFORMANCE AND

APPEARS MORE EAGER THAN EVERY TO ATTEMPT PIICH.

4. FILE: 201-855547; 201-749651. GP-1.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 70

1400000

J'ADRE OCAOLTABIAI UISSEMINATION

TEMESSAUE

19IAL CUMEO

SECREE

- GECUEI

at81272-7700 1419

ta?t

(When Filled In)

REFRONUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

MUUTIALI AND/OR INITIALI SEZN 8!

5

23

ADVANCE COPY

L'OsURD

"SLOTTED

UKTEUR

#Y

-1 1830

DOC. MICRO. SER

DISSEN

ACTIONUNI

- 110148

082

FILE, VR

JAN.27 1972

MICROELLMED

PRECEDENCE

CIApSI SEZURY

SE CRE T 261713Z NOV 71 CITE(

=is135

PRIORITY DIRECIOR INFO PRIORITY

TYPIC AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF: DIRECIOR 205025

@AMMUG-I MET WITHOUT HIICH MORNING 25 NOVEMBER.

STILL NO SIGNS DE AMEIROPIA-L. QUIIMID IRAFFIC 25

NOVEMBER SKOWED CONVERSATION BETWEEN JOSE

26No N. 4 784 15

"28.

MARTIZEZ OF COMPANIA EUROPA DE MANUTENCION CONIINUA

AND CACHON IN COMMERCIAL OFFICE WHERE LAITER ADVISES

THAT A/I DEFINITELY DUE THAI DAY (BUT NO OTHER CALLS

INDICATING HE ACTUALLY ARRIVED).

WILLING TO

COOPERATE ONLY: SO FAR AS PROVIDE TWICE-DAILY CHECK HOTEL

ROSIER AND ALERI FROM AIRPORT IF A/I SPOTTED

ARRIVING, BOTH: CHANNELLED THROUGH QUSEQUIN/37, BUT NOT

WILLING TO APPROACH MARTINEZ (WHO DOES NOT APPEAR IO

KNOW MORE THAN WKAT IS TOLD BY COMMERCIAL

OFFICE ANYWAY) •

GUFLUTE-I HAD ONLY FALSE ALARM TO REPORT BUI NO OTHER

•INDICATIONS.

1 21

A3

IM

20 STAIION KEEPING CLOSE TOUCH WITH AMMUG-I AND

IRYING TO DETERMINE A-I PRESENCE SOONEST.

FI

3.201-865547

GS COPV:

SECRET

2631743651

2610771

---

## Page 71

14-00000

JERO DENOTTARIAI MISSEMINATION

NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

SLOTTED

LLASSIMIID MESSAUC

IUIAL CUMILO

SECRET

GROUP &

CINDED FRO

(When Filled In)

DECLASIIICATC

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PRONISITED

2

BY:-

DISSEM BY.

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

PAGE

30 FILE:

SE

CR E T

÷ J2 AM '72

FILE, VR

15135 SECRET

201-749651; 201-865547 GP1

8

---

## Page 72

MUULING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

¡BLE SECRETARIAT UISSEMINALIUN

SON/UNIT NOTIFIRO

WAt

¿BLOTTED

dANCECOPY

CLOISIEED MESSAGE

LECRET

ті: 'В. " клі" на?

(Wisen Fillet In)

REPAJULETIUN OF THIS COPY PROM SIT DA

1930

iS

$26. шт.

TION UNIT

WH8

STION NO.

265

FILE, VR

EUG. FlAN

SEAM 4. 5

si clops 5

13192

SECRET 231908Z NOV 71 CITE

INFO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR

23 Now IN 476216

IMMEDIATEL

TYPIC AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF:

71511A(W 476162)

PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AMMUE-! FOLLOWS: HT:

64", WI: 140, HAIR: BLACK, AGE 34, FACE: THIN AND

SLIGHTLY MARKED.

2. FILE:

+01-365547, 201-749551

GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

33.16?1

201749451

---

## Page 73

CARLE SECURTALIA DISSEMINATIO CAREDLE CO RESCANE

renter crison,

SECRET

(When Filled In '".

40000192081

L:0180

REPRODUCTION CT INIGLORY PACHINITEC

2545 7

OUTING ANDICE INITIALS SECR

FRECEDENCE

35122R 6.

the

SECRET 191502Z NOV. 71 CIT

10

1269u

IMMEDIATE

INFO FRIURITY DIRECIOR

1: Nos I473565

TYPIC AMETROPIA QUI IMIL

REFO A. WiViTANI 150566.470042)

B. MADRID 15035(0 4169567)

1• ACCORDING TO QUIATIO CONVEROHLION BLINEN TWO CUBAN.

OFFICIALS, AMEIROPIA-I LEFI LONDON MUR MUNTACAL CARLY MORNING

LO NOVENGER, WILL REINO. TU LOWDUN Z1 DUVEDUCIN AND PLAINS TO ARRIVE

MADKID 23 MOVERDER. OARD IRAVEL PLANS DILL LODEFiNiE BUI

MADE INQUIRIES ABOUI 2O NOVEMBER CUBANA FLIGHI TO HAVANA.

(NU

HOTEL RESSRVATIONS YET MALE QUI WILL HÖLDE ASAP WHEN INFORMATION

ABAILABLE.?

2. DEFER TO ADDLE JUDULGENT WHETHER MMUG-1 DRIP SHOULD

DE MADE ON BASIS THIS LUFUNGRIlOK.

1r arrlamatiVe, SiAllUN WILL

ASHIN ANY WAY POSSIBLE.

FILE 261-065547, 261-745631.

üf1.

CRAVED TO DATEREN

8/2. - 203159

SECRET

749651

19:N007!

---

## Page 74

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON WEIS NOTIFIES

ADVANCE COOT

Trasuro

SLOTTED

CARS REE MESSAGE .

TUAL COPIES 2? 11

"SECRET

When Silled I "

EPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS-SEEN BY

5

28

04SER. 9Y.

ACTION UNIT

1208

ETION NO

284

PER.

FILE, VR

FUeG, CHOPS, SECUR y

SECRET ISITIZZ NOV 71 CITE

15835

15 Now IN 469867

DIRECTOR INFO

TYPIC AMETROPIA QUIIMID

REF:

+5010(185467099)

PHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN SPANISH BUSINESSMAN AND

AMETROPIA-1 IN LONDON INDICATES A-I DEFINITELY WILL SEE

SPANIARD IN MADRID BUT AFTER WEEK ENDING 20 NOVEMBER. SINCE

CONVERSATION DID NOT MENTION ANY DEADLINES WE HAVE NO TIME FRAME

WHITHIN WHICH AMMUG-I MIGHT BEST TRAVEL TO MADRID.

• 2. FILE 201-749851.

GP1•

-110

(PS

DOC. MICRO. SER.

IAN Z7 1912

MICROFILMES

3001-865547

CS COPY.

SECRET

1261-749651.

1506571

---

## Page 75

TAYLOUT

7111/1319

I1 NOVEMBER 1971

BLE SCCACTARIAT DISSERIRATION

9/51

- PER

1496

SECRET

120

• INDEX

D NO NOCK

STALE IN ES FILENO

AALI

(cato and ame filed)

1215671 03 352

O AND CE MATTRES - SEEiN DY

RETURN TO

THE BRANCH

O FILE NO

(ali:e)

freterence

1 (pics)

CITE DIRECTOR 0 0 6 5 7

7

7

"(classication)

SECRET

TYPIC

REF

AMMUG

13055

(IN 466569) *

1.

HOUSE SUB CONNETTEE FAVORABLY APPROVED BILL FOR

ANHUG-I CITIZENSHIP. BILL NOW GOES TO FULL COMITTEE AND

LATER TO HOUSE FOR FINAL ACTION,

2. FILE 201-749651:

GP-1.

END

OF

JESSAGE

I'H/COG Comment:

REF REQUESTED OUTCONE OF BILL TO. GRANT

ANWUG-1 U.S. CITIZENSHIP.

AM

. IY

ES

3:

FI

кілся

WILLIAN V.

BROI

C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

CS COPY

COCRDINATING CFFICERS

SECRET

LAWRENCE

TERNFIELD

C/WH/COG

Esciuse dipee surematis

ar.d

18811:21.00

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THARE THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

GFFICER

12 NOV TI

COPY NO

201-749651

---

## Page 76

CASLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATISN

PARESEN UNIT ROTTIRO

ascarce ion a issueo

IFIEL' MESS.ASE

SECRET

¿OTAL COPIES 12-

GROUPI

(Niel Silodin)

REDRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND CR INITIALS-SEEN EY

FIASKS HY

ACTION UNIT

W0 H

ACTION NO

252

AT.

8

- =

FILE. VA

8

C1/DFS, SEZUR 4

SE UR

E

T

1018512 NOV 71 CITE

13855

DIREGTOR

TYPIC AMMUG

is WOULD APPRECIATE CUTCOME OF MQS DISCUSSIONS RE

AMMUG- 1 BEING GRANTED LaSA GITIZENSHIP. IF THERE HAVE

EEEN ANY POSITIVE DEVELOPMENTS STATION WOULD LIKE TO

FASS THEM ON TO ANMCG-1.

2.. FILE: 20179651. GPI

SECRET

10laz 1X4 66569

Ait

AB

&S COPY

SECRET

L

Pam 7u965,

---

## Page 77

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

7 PEESON UNIY NOTITILO

MOVANCE COPY

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE.

• •TOTAL COPIES 6=1.

ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS-SEEN BY

• SECRET

UL When Filled Ini

107128969570 byrcess?

MODUCTIO.. THIS EURY PROHIBITED

181

CSDO

X MOTIO

FUR

0910%

0nsen 043/51

ACTION UNI

COC. MICRO. SER.

DEC 1 7 1971

MICRO: LILO

FRECEDENCE

FILE, VR

P/AN.

166

SECRET 850842Z NOV 71 CITEL

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY

J94969

5 Km IN 4. 62511

TYPIC AMETROPIA

REF DIRECTOR 197498

1. AS OF COB A NOVEMBER

NO INDICATION FROM STATION.

SOURCES CONCERNING AMETROPIA- 1 RETURN NOR DID HOTEL I

(HIS USUAL RESIDENCE) CLAIM TO HAVE RESERVATION IN HIS NAME.

2. FILE:

201-749551, 201-865547. GP-1

SECRET

*RELAYEA TO

PER

Aid 198194,

+3-901-865547

"SECRET

SNOUTI

591-74965

[

---

## Page 78

4ь.

A!

Är.

TOTAL COPIE 4 -

SFCQE)

Was ed in

ACUTING ASCICR INITIALS'CEN

fILF VR

14955.1

RIORITY

ÝPIC AN: TROPIA

INFO LOISONA DIRECTOR

3 Nov IN 4 60684

B

1. ALPICCIAT OFFER LIT STATION CAMMANDLE

1915-1®

.fil: 201-5:8547: 201-7406510 CP1

EC.R.T

C00 3 8201-865547

SECRET

File Iri

201-749651

, 7

5551:

---

## Page 79

SECRET

WHEN FILED INI

ROUTING ALID RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FLING

Fill in Sec: 2 on back Dotach back flap

and forward lo RID.

Destroy front cover sheet. unless it records

signilicant action taken o: comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

RID

PAGE ESIAN

IP/AN

EXI. 4239

GI-379

GA50

TUEE GIT

1O ACTION BRANCH

It hile no. and title shown are not proper.

insert prope: lie no below and forward

document to RID AN

PROPER FILE TO

TO ALLADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DECEIVED

2709T

c/WH/C/FF

/1

Mark it

1no0

111N21 KEe

tong

8.

9.

10

11.

1 2

13.

14.

P S.

16.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUES!

DATE MICROFILMED

Then t

A8om.

trill on is do

CRESPO,

DOC. MICRO. SER.

Trien

OCT 871077

MIGROFILMED

ASSTRACT

INDEX

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMEEG IPRIMARYCODE,

201-7495÷

DOCUMENT DATE

COC MENT NUMBER

12 GET. TH USED 93472

68765

---

## Page 80

DISPATCH

Chief

CLASSFIATION

SCORET

ilenisphere Division

INFO.

FRON

SUBJECT

Cater of station,

Cring Official in madrid

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERINCES

PROCESSING ACTION

¡ MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDiCING REQUiRED

ONEY QUALFED DISK

CAM JUDGE INDEXING

A KROFILI

Reference: UFAN-1245

tress- 1.0

1.5Aidlö-l did not cocognise the photogrape of tanuel

Ignacintu u e

sa da

Santnach 1201-2272062, which

is

containid in

colune 1of the Cuban suprok.

2.

AMEG-1 recognized tro

Cuban

officinls

manes tron the listing.of

in Spain,

forvardod by USiLi-27086

0f-24

day 1971.

(201-5154372 and micries

Mantinea.

Mencila.

ANCING- 1

commented

that he had

known asping quite toll und that

Was

of

in pericais contact kith his fron acril 1901 10

Loe?,

ADIEG-1 adder

that Espino

used to be

the

/director of

an import mouse th Cuba,

but 8a5

unable to

recall the name c? this fit.

AMRUG-1 amated that ho

had known a rederico

Norcir from his days

i n

the Cuban police.

Accordins to abilör! Cruspo worked

nucerneath lim

1950 1o amar 1061 vien both ren

were

transtarted

to the Aray.

AliMUG-l commented that

Crespo

Kas

the rank of

sergean.

iidUG-1 last saw

Crespo around carly lode.

A Mili-t added that Crespo

NAs

Chucasian,

last

would be about 32 years of awe and

that

tie

limp he saw bim, Crespo had blondish nait, was about

5'9". tall and koigind about 170 pounds.

Station files

List

Crespo's D03 as boing o august 1010 which dovetails

• with

Maiiod-1's

inforsation.

wiT!

3..

Miland-tintoramidon on the cubeerify if any,

be forward.d in

thr

innediate rature:

DOC. MICRO. SER

• OCT 27181

Bustace i. KLOUCK

MICHOTILNEO

Distributzon:

3.- Chief

i.iD

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY

DISPAICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

201-02720628201-618137

: DATE

Se: 12:076.

CFAA-9172

6 October 1971

+S CHRSSISTAHOI

HOS FILE NUMBER

1. 201-619651

---

## Page 81

14-00000

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIC

PERSON LATROTTY

ADYANCE COPY

ISSUEO

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

TRIAL COPIES

SECRET®

SROL"I

(When Filled Ind

23255

cuts sa ta

NEMZDUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIRITEO

ROUTING AND:OR INITIALS-SEEN &V

2

DT

DISSEN DY

ACTION UNIT

FILE, VR

556

SECRET 2713132

E-71 cIal

PRIORITY MEXICO CRITTENTO DIRECIOR

12082

UMIM

TYPIC

REF: MEXICO CITY 17236(1 3872397)

LO DUE TO DOCUMENI PROCEDURAL COMPLICATIONS, AMMUG-1

DID NOT DEPART FOR MEXICO CITY AS PLANNED. IN LIGHT

OF INFO CONTAINED REF, AMMUG-1 HAS BEEN INSTRUCTED

REMAIN IN MIAMISER

20 IN ADDITION TO DEBRIEFING OF AMSLOUCH-6 AND

AMSLOUCH-7, REQUEST THAI KLOOCK TAKE ADVANTAGE OF

OPPORTUNITY FOR IN DEEPTH FAMILIARIZATION WITH PBRUMEN

PERSONALITIES, ACTIVITIES AND MODUE OPERANDI IN MEXICO

CITY®

3. FILE:

201-872345 AND 281-7496510 GP-1

SECRET

DOC. MICRO. SER.

AUS ! ^1371

MICARELMED

387716

A/11

18 830Y

1201-872345

SECRET

27%671

1261-24-96511

---

## Page 82

CABLE: SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFICO NESSAGE: TOTAL COPIES - 3 -/

SECREE

- GROUP I

den Pillola)

novance Con,

E BiOTTED

петарі

ION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS-SEEN BY:

-v.

AETION UNIT

-10 WHB

FILE. VR

cioes, El. sou

475

SE CRET 262019Z JUL 71 CITE MEXICO CITY/ 17230

INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC

RET:

701-749651

12022 (1N383674)

10'

EUSTACE D. KLOOCK ARRIVED PER REF.

•2• FILE:

281-7496518 201812117 AND 201-872345.

SECRET

26 JuL IN 387183

GP= 1

0,10

P.M3

26- Jul 71

261-749657

281:74965

SECRET

---

## Page 83

• CAGLE SECRETARIAT. DISSEMINATION

JASON UNT HOTD

ADVANCA COPY:

LOTTED

SBIRED NESSESE • TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP !

(Wirn Filled la)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

-3I ROUTINE ANDIOR INTAISEEN OT

ACTION UNI

0 H:8

FILE, VR

CTION NO:

I SECURE FL Gi/OPS

0731

SE CRE I 221324Z JUL 71 CITE

12035

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC

OREF A DIRECTOR 162399 ENOT SENT MEXICO CITY)

WWMIAMI 12022 (N)383676)

PER PERMISSION GRANTED REF A, EUSTACE D.

MOOCK WILL TRAVEL MEXICO CITY PER REF B.

2: FILE: 201-749651, 201-812117 AND 201-872345. GPS.

SECRET

2 JuL IN 384361

/DOC. MICRO. SER.

AUS i:: 1971

MICROFILNED

D 11

is Port

6-284-812117

1B 201-8:17345

SECRET

527471

201-744657.!

---

## Page 84

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SECRETE

Lawrcuce Sternfield:by.

SECRET

Um. 1945

DATE 21 JULY: 1971

CADLE SECRETARIAT DISSCMINATION

BY 2 3

•PER

CONF

FILE: VR;

O INDEX

I NO. INOCX

O RETURN TO -

- BRANCH

FILE IN'CS FILE NO.

RiAN, ASSO, EL elOPS, SECUAV

• FILE RO

•(alite)

(siassication)

SECRET

(pice)

217 119 362

до Г.

6

PRIORITY

TYPIC AMROSE AMSLOUCH

O REF:

12022 (IN 383676)

7

IP

7

-1.

RE PARA 1 OF REF PERMISSION GRANTED.

2. FILE: 201-749651; 201-812117; 201-872345.

DOC. MICRO. SER.

AUG 1 0 1971

MICROFILMED

END OF MESSAGE

sinitia

fILLIAN V. BROE

CAHD

682Y

B201-517111

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

$.2.00-$

99345

SECRET

PERRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING CIFICE IS PROHIBITED.

LAWRENCE STER FIELD

201-24.9651

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COPY NQ

---

## Page 85

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIOI

PERSONI UNIT NOTIFIE

CLASSIFTO MESSASE : TOPAL COPIES

SECRET

• GROUP!

FAR 019 18.:80 AUTORATIE

(Wien Filled Ird-

PRECASY PICATISA

AOVANCE COFF

SLOTTED

PEPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

DOC. MIGNO. SER.

•т.

D 1720:

AUS 1: 13:1

PRECEDENCE

ACTION I

NOTON 48 E FILE. VA

RIAN,

JEZURY, CHOPS, TI

253

SECRET 211628Z JUL 71 CITE

2022 / SADELLY, ACTIN

JOL N 38367

PRIORITY DIREÇTOR, MEXICO CITY

TYPIC AMROSE AMSLOUCH

REF WH/MIAMI 11985380463)

1. FOR DIRECIOR:

REQUEST PERMISSION FOR EUSTACE D.

XLOOCK TO TRAVEL IN HIS REGISIERED ALIAS TO MEXICO CITY

ON AMMUG-1/AMSLOUCH-6 UPS. TRAVEL INFO AS FOLLOWS:

DEPARI MIAMI AT 1730 HOURS 25 JULY VIA PAA FLIGHT 552

WHICH SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE MEXICO CITY AT 2105 HOURS.

2. AMMUG-I WILL UTILIZE SAME PAA FLIGHT ON 26 JULY

WHICH SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE AT 1935 HOURS.

3. FOR MEXICO CITY: REQUEST THAI IF POSSIBLE, YOU

MAKE RESERVATIONS PER ABOVE SCHEDULE FOR KLOOCK IN HIS

REGISTERED ALIAS AT EITHER HOTEL BRISTOL OR MONTEJO AND

RESERVATIONS FORANGUO-S IN HIS TRUE VAME AT THE HOTEL

MAJESTIC. KLOOCK WILL CONTACT STATION MONDAY MORNING.

APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT.

• 4• FILE: 201-749651;

201-512117

AND

201-872345. GPI.

SECRET

AX

13-501-582345

1 201-51.2119

SECRET

=1 if 7...

261-0494-51

---

## Page 86

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON: UAT NOTTING

= issues.

L LOTTED

ISS FIED MESSAGE®

•FOTAL COPIES jO

SECRET

GROUP!

con race a marse

3e? (when rilled in)

REPROQUCTION OR THIS COPY PROMIBITEO

• 1

ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS-SEEN DY

DIBEEN 8V

•ACTION.

: FILE, VR

1624

SECRET 1E2DAZZ JUL 7I CITE

icar

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMRO SE

16 ta N 380669

REF MEXICO CITY 17155(101379734)

1. ALL THINGS CONSIDERED, SUGGESI WE SET 26 JULY AS TARGET DATE FOR

CAMMUG-l'S TRAVEL TO MEXICO CITY AND THAT HE TRAVEL IN TRUE NAME VIA

FAIRLY DIRECI ROUTE. NO MATTER WHAT TRANSPIRES WITH ANSLOUCH-E, KLOOCK

WILL BE IN MEXICO CITY 26 JULY TO DIRECT AMMUG-I, IN CONCERT WITH

MEXICO

CITY.

20

FILE:

221-749651, 201-812117. GPI.

SECRET

DOC. MICRO. SER.

AU6 4 1971

MICROFILMED

A 3.

TR

CS COPY

6201-812117

SECRET

16 que H

201-249657 B

---

## Page 87

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

Biscuro

CI." -SIFIED MESSAGE"

SECREF

TOTAL SPiES L1 1

(When' filled Ir)

REPRODUCT THIS COR PROMINEO

av:.

• AT

6

ACTION UITT

wnS

ACTION NO:

FILE, VR

SECRET IBIZAOZ JUL 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 17128

MEXI

DIRECTOR®

10 Ju N 376059

TYPIC AMROSE

REES! A. MEXICO CITY 11833(1N 368344)

B. DIRECTOR 155185

Co

11878

10374346)

D. DIRECIOR

158728

1. REF C ANSWERS TO OUR

QUESTIONS SHOW/MUG-L IPIP HERE

CANNOT BE GIMMICKED. HE'LL BE MARKED FROM FIRST MOMENT FOR WHAT

HE IS. APPARENTLY, THIS IS OF NO PARTICULAR CONCERN TO

OR AMMUG-I HIMSELF. THIS BEING CASE, DO NOT SEE WHAT WE HAVE

LOSE BY GOING AHEAD. THERE NOTHING THAT SENSITIVE OTHERWISE

PROCESS, INCLUDING KDTUCK-18 CASE, WHICH SHOULD BE AFFECIED. BY

• AN AMMUG-I APPROACH TO KDACOUSTIC-I IN NEAR FUTURE.

2. LETS'S ELABORATE JUST A BIT FURTHER ON OUR QUERY OF PARA

2G, REF A, AND

COMMENT OF PARA 2G, REF. CO IF AMMUG-I.

CAN MANEUVER TO SEE KDACOUSTIC-I UNDER PRIVATE, RELAXED CIRCUM-

STANCES (ADMITTEDLY DIFFICULT), WE CERTAINLY HOPE HE'LL GO BEYOND

MERELY OFFERING HIMSELF AS CHANNEL FOR DEFECTION, (KDACOUSIIC-I

KNOWN STATION OFFICERS PERSONALLY AND HOW TO REACH THEM.) WED

CS DoXY

SECRET

OUTING ANO/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

DOC. MICRO. SER.

AU6 10 1971

MICROFILMED

IN LIC

M..

12201-812111

10 Kil. 7 ..

201-749651

---

## Page 88

CAELE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION.

PRISON UIT ROTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE...: TOTAL COPIES

ROUTING AND/OR INiTiALS-SEEN DY

SECRET

(When Filled In) are

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY FRPHISITED

89:

ACTION UNI

ACT

ON NO

FILE. VA

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 17I20 SECRET

LIKE AMMUG-1, AS AN OLD, KNOWLEDGEABLE COLLEAGUE, ÍO ENGAGE

KDACOUSTIC-I IN MEANINGFUL IDEOLOGICAL-POLITICAL DISCUSSIONS,

COMPARE NOTES ON MUTUAL ACQUAINTANCES, ELICIT RE PERSONAL

LIFE, GIVE US A BETTER INSIGHT ON AN UNCOMMUNICATIVE TARGET

AND, THUS, A BETTER ASSESSMENT. THIS WOULD BE WORTH

INS TRIP,

EVEN IF AMMUG-I OTHERWISE REJECTED.

3. ASSUME AMMUG-I READY TO GO WITHIN THIS OF NEXT MONTH.

COULD AMMUG-I VISIT BE COMBINED WITH ONE OF HOBBERLIN'S VISITS

RE KDTUCK-18 (PARTICULARLY IF AMMUG-I LOOLS LIKE HE MIGHI. BE

HANDLING PROBLEMS?

4..

FILES:

201-749651; 201-862117°

GP-1

SECRET

12. 87904

SECRET:

---

## Page 89

SELN BY

MES AS PORN = 17%1

am h. Laser

".iT:

CC/VII/1

SECRETT

37:

7375/9351

ATE: 9 JUly 1971

MiLE SECACTARIAT DISSCMINATION

D INDEX

C) NO INDEX

4 FILE IN CS FILE NO.

L RETURN TO

- BRANCH

I FILE RID

1i'8

61 FILE. VR.

(classilication)

SECRET

→ Tuato and time tiles

91se71 21 002

apolises

"Trolorence nuiber)"

CITE DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

150728

TYPIC AMROSE

REF :

111878(14 3743416)

1: GIVEN STATION WA/MIAMI AND MEXICO CITY EXTHUSIASY FOR

.: REF OP, HQS CONCURS IN PROPOSAL TO LAY NECESSARY GROUNDHORK FOR

ANMUG-1 AND KDACOUSTIC-I MEETING. GARDALPHE WILL DISCUSS WITII

STATION ON ARRIVAL.

2. FILE: 201-749651; 201-862117.

EXD OF MESSAGE

DOC. MICRO. SER

AUG 1 0 1971

MICROFILMED LAL

WH COMMENT: Rei recommended CARDALPHIE delayed for

AMMUG-1 trip to Mexico to contact iD.ICOUSTIC-I.

7

1 701-862117

Brities

/miliam y. Broc

C/UHD

RUTACHIN CIRCER

201-249651

4.:?

ww/.0L1/s

3:07=4

i114113

not Weny

rapy th

---

## Page 90

PAÉLE SECRETARIAT. DISSEMINATION

CLA TED MESSARL

A TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

• GROUP#

/4%-

ecita race agreeas

• (Wen Filled Ta)

RIPRODUCTION OF THIS CORI PROMIBITEO

ROUTING AND, OR INITIALS SEEN A

AT

PER

DOC MICRO. SER

AUG 1 0 1971

MICROPILMED

= jACTON UNIT

W* &

ACTION NO

772

FILE, VE

CI, CLOPS, SECURY

SECRET 081503L JUL 71 CITE

11878

DIRECTOR, MEXICO CITY

TYPIC AMROSE

REFS®: A• DIRECTOR 155185

B. MEXICO CITY 17033(1N 308344)0

1.: WHILE WE UNWILLING GO TO THE MAT TO PLACE AMMUG-I

IN CONTACT WITH KDACOUSTIC- Le THIS IS A CASE WHERE WE HAVE

A GOOD ACCESS AGENT AND BELIEVE WE WOULD BE REMISS IF WE

LET THIS OPPORTUNITY TO RECRUIT/DEFECT AN AMSIAFF OFFICER

PASS US BY. WHILE LIKELIHOOD OF SUCCESS IS PROBABLY QUITE

SLIM, WE FEEL POTENTIAL REWARD WELL WORTH THE MINIMAL

EFFORT INVOLVED®

2. FOR MEXICO CITY: FOLLOWING INFO GEARED TO

QUESTIONS RAISED PARA IWO REF B:

SUPERVISOR, MARRIOTT IN FLIGHT SERVICES

B. YES.

NO

D.

SECTION

E. . YES

MARCH 1964 MEXICO CITY AS CO-WORKERS IN AMSTAFF

4.

AN

13.201-812117

SECRET

8 26 71

П

201-749651

---

## Page 91

14-000n

CABLE. SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

"ERSON UNIT NOTIFIE

BOVANCE COST

ISBUEB

BLOTTRO

$7:.

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

At

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE. TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

When Filled In is

celesti

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

9003171

ROÜTING ANDICR INITIALS-SEEN BY

FILE. VA

PAGE 2

11878

F.

NO, BUT THEN IT IS NOT OUR OBJECIIVE THAT AMMUG-1

OFFER KDACOUSTIC-! A JOB.

BELIEVE WE CAN SAFELY ASSUME THAT IF AMMUG- 1

DOES APPROACH KDACOUSTIC-I THAT THE LATTER WILL ASSUME THAT

AMMUG-I HAS BEEN SENT BY LNFORT/JKLANCE. THIS BEING SO,

BELIEVE AMMUG-I'S PRIMARY GOAL IS TO ESTABLISH CONTACT

WITH KDACOUSTIC-I AND ASSURE HIM THAT IF HE EVER DECIDED

TO DEFECI FROM PBRUMEN, THAI AMMUG-I CAN SERVE AS HIS

CHANNEL OF COMMUNICATION TO LNFORT. THIS OF COURSE

SAME RATIONALE BEING USED IN THE AMBEATNIK-I/AMMEDIA -1.

RELATIONSHIP

HO AMMUG-I'S PRIMARY REASON FOR GOING TO MEXICO

WILL BE TO CONTACI KDACOUSTIC-1.

62. 87 904

12

3. IN VIEW. OF MEXICO CITY'S BELIEF THAT KDACOUSTIC-I

WILL RETURN PCS PBRUMEN THIS SUMMER, RECOMMEND WE PRESS

FORWARD AND WITH THE NECESSARY GROUNDWORK TO EFFECT MEETING

BETWEEN AMMUG-1 AND KDACOUSIIC-!.

4... FILE:

281-749851 AND

201-882117 GP.-1

SECRET

---

## Page 92

1464.0.00.

cia t. Laserenlli

7373/9351

cAn 23 Jüne 1971

CASIC SECRETARIAT DISSLAARATION

BY

TOTAL COPISE

SICKET.

CJ INDEX

CO NO INCEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO

CReTEN TO

- BRANCH

CHILE RIO

11k"

(classilication)

SECRET

-(dato and timo died

¡relarenca number)

206a71 23 37₴

CITE DIRECTOR

1.55185

TO

INFO MEXICO CITY

TIPIC AMROSE

REF.:

11787 (IN 366332)

1. PAST EXPERIENCE WITI APPROICHES UTILIZING CUBAN DEFECTORS

DOES NOT LEAD US TO BE SANGUINE REGARDING PROPOSED OP AGAINST

DACOUSTIC-1, ESPECIALLY USING "ACCIDENING ENCOUNTER" PLOY. MILE

HISK IN SUCH AN ATTRIPTED APPROICH IS MENTAL, WE HOULD FAVO! DELAYING

• OP IN HOPES OF DEVELOPING MORE UP-TO-DITE INFO ON THE TARGET'S

VULNRABILITIES AND POSSIBLE SUSCEPTIBILTTY TO RECRUTCIENT/DIRECTION.

• 2. FOR MEXICO CITY: HAS KDTUCK-! OR OTION: STATION ACCESS

AGENTS DEVELOPED ANY SIGNTVICANT INFO ON KDACOUSTIC-1 RECENTLEY

3. FILE:

201-312117, 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE

201-745657

7

MILLIAM V. BROF

MILFACIG OTICER

C/Hil/L

280883

MM: 16471

materist's

1H111!16.

1206 Sanest

•tartarer!

Risin il:

---

## Page 93

SECRET

(WHEN EELED.IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHELT

INSIHUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

Fill in Sort. 2. on back. Delach back Hap

and lorward to RID.

Destroy iront cover sheel, unless it records

signicant action isken or comments seruir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

-TO ACTION BRANCH

if ble no. und tule shown aid not proper,

insort proper lile no. below and forward

document to RID AN.

WEAVER

KID

RID/AN

EXT. 4239

GF-437,

GA50

TUBE GT7

DATE

TO

NO

• 131577!

3.

DEVINE

GRISLER

• LA

AMORI (?)

6.

рі/ есь

Marshall

Derine

Antori

10.

19 Aaly

19

20707

12.

13.

1.4.

1 5.

16.

PHOPLRFILE NO

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF AVPROBHIATE

COMMENTS

DOC. MICRO. SER.

JUd: 1 3 1971

MICROFILMED

9-6: S1.ee

someone ihould lee

return abear sleeper

sail a line.

6 to 7,8,9: Le crico of the

lingage.

17

FILE TITLE

RID. FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

ABSTRACT

INDEX

FRE NUNGER IPRIMARY COOET

201-249651

DOCUMENT DATE

, DOCUMENT NUMBER

2010. J UFas 03131

Seasen

---

## Page 94

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

Chief, Western Hemisphere Diviston

xx.

PROCESSING ACHION

MARKED FOR INDI KINC

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONIY QUALMIED DISE

CAN JUDGE INDE KING

MAN ROFRA

Chief of Station

TYPIC/Future Use of ANniUG-1

ACTION RECRID - RIFLINGES

Action Required:

FYI

DOC. MICRE

SER.

JUt 1519/1

MICROFILMEO

During JKLANCE's most recent attempt to contact

ANETROPIA-I via ANNIUG-1, it hecame readily apparent that

the cover story AMNUG-1 utilized with his immediate

superior was unsatisfactory from two points:

First, 1t

did not permit us the operational flexibility so necessary.

this sort and secondly, if AMMUG-l had

not returned when he did, his job security would have been

jeopardized.

2. To correct the above deficiency,

has

arranged

the following with the Miami Field Office (MO):

In the luture,

if we again utilize AMIUG-1 to approach a

PBRUMEN official,

we will ask that the MFO arrange to have

one of their representatives from their Headquarters

component contact the appropriate sentor official of

ANMUG-1's company.

This

senior official will in turn

nötify AMMUG-l's immediate superior that ABMUG-1 is to be

permitted to travel

on matters of importance to the

Department of Defense.

Transmitted under separate cover is a copy of

a memorandum we received from the MFO concerning the above

arrangements.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

Attachment:

Memo, u/s/c via True Name Pouch

Distribution:

3 - C/WID w/att u/s/c

12 qui is

CROSS REFERENCE TO

-201-865547

US

DISPAICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFAA-3131

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

JUS ZETM

21 JUNE 1971

MaS SIE NUNETR

201-749651

---

## Page 95

Li:

3 June 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief oi Station,

FROM

: MFO

ATTENTION

: Security Officer

SUBJECT

: Ralph: HOSEDA.

1. Reference your memorandom O$ 182-71.

Pursuant to your request his office contacted a senior

official of the Marriott Corporation in Washington, D.C., who

approved the travel to Europe of a Miami baned Marriott employee

who is affiliated with WI.

3. The Marricut official, Mr. Jameo MCALLISTER,

contacted his Minmi representative, Mr. halph COEDA, and

advised NOSEDA that your asset was irce to travel lo Spain on short

1. NOSEDA was advised by MCALLISTER that this was a matter

of interest to the Department of Defence. NOSEDA, to the best of our

knowledge, has not been approaches og anyone else in Miami or Washington

on this matter sinee tie intlial call from MeALLISTER in March.

icta

MRBURETTO.

HARVELL

DOC. MICRO. SER.

JUl: 131911.

MICROFILMED

IS GOTY

S/cate rto UFAA-3131:.

201-74-9651

---

## Page 96

14-000n

CARL: Stirrigad

partie:

CLASSIFIC MES: ICE

TIAL COPIES 15:1,

SECRET

'sprai do!

ROUTING AND OR IMITALS-SERS O

! 51

100: 1:

128

FIlE,

ВИСНЕТЕ КРОЇ М ?! С!ТЕ

DIRECTOR, MEXICO CITY

TYPIC AMROSE

26 Ja W 366332

REF:

05-311 84132-11

1. DURING HIS PECENT TOY TO MEXICO CITY ON INE

XDIUCK-IO UFERATION: WOODROW G. HOBBERLIN DISCUSSED

WITH TERLACE DO SISTONE OUR PROPOSAL IO USE AMMUG-I TO.

APPROACH MACOUSTICE, AMPUG'I, WHOSE RELATIONSHIP

WITH ADA OUSTIC. DATES LACK TO 19540 ASSESSES KDACOUSTIC-I

AS ONLY FEIGNING LOYALTY TO THE

PREMEN REGIME AS HE IS

BASICALLY AN OPFORTUNISI.

¿. WIET PROVIDED WITH GIST OF INTO CONTAINED REF

All ASKED TO CATRGORIZE KDACONSTIC !,

AMMUG-I COMMENTED

THAT KDACHSTIC: WOULD HAVE IO BE GROUPED WITH IHOFF WHO

MAD COSE WIDER FIRS COR BEING SOMETHING LESS THAN RABID

NEVOLHTEOGAR ES.

WHILE ANGUO-TOS APPROACH TO KDACOUSTIC!

WOLD PHOBAbLY HAVE

FU ASSUME THE FOND ON AN ACCIDENTAL

FICOUNTER WE ARE ILLING TO ENTERTAIN AVY IDNAS ADDPESSEES

MAY HAVE TO DEVISE I LESS CONIRIVED APPROACH TO KDACOUSTIC!.

S FRIEST ADDRESSEE CUNMENTS ON INE ABOVE PROPOSE ErADE COY

FIlF.

do +6:17: 201-749691 GRI

F03 CaC3O FILING IN

201 - 51211?

201- 7.4:9665-1

SECRET

26 Jenn71.

---

## Page 97

DISPATCH

CLASSIN'EN

Chief, Wustern Hemisphere Division

FAXESSiNS ACTION

INFO.

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCIS

TYPIC/Review of Cuban Muglooks Volumes lI and Ill with AbruG-l

Forwarded herewith is a copy of fustace D. louch's

contact r'éport on his latest necting with AauG-l. It

is requested that all the individuals mentioned in this

report be

indexed.

yo. klame

Dus tace D. KLOOCh

Attachment: Contact Report

DOC. MICRO. SER

JUN 7. 1881

MICROFILMEC

Distritution:

CROSS RETIRINCE TO

S5 07":

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFAA-305-1

CASSINCATION

DATE

21 MAY 1971

NOS FILE NUMBER

201-719051

---

## Page 98

AGEVT

CASE OFFICER:

FUNDS PASSED:

None

CONTACT RENTAT

FustaCe D. MOOCK DATE:

DOC: LITRO: BE

JUN / 1870

MICROFILMED

PLACE: AMUG-l's hone

1630-1700, 19 Hay 1971

the following results:

YOluzo IT

Arazado 1. Pess t r a d a Fernandez

((201-809140))

Photo #39

ALUG-l correctly idontified the proudo of Estrade as

"ULISES". AMUG-l added that he had last spoken with Estrada

1n. February of 1964.

Aris 20/

German liguel ta a nos

Photo 142

AlUG-l's only cousent was that ho wasn't sure if ramos vas

his corroct: name.

Roque

Garcia

((201-215097)) photo 7118

AiG-l conmonted that he had spoken with Dalton in September

of 1964

Manuel TaCar DOno 11 Diquo

(201-739081)

_ Photo #159

AlEJUG-l comented that he know Carbonell frou circa 1960, when

Carbonoll was a captain is the police.

Yoluse III

Astridil did not recognize any of the photographs contained in

Volumo III of the Cuban Sugbook.

AshlUG was also ehown the photograph of Luie

Puertinez

Hecocal (201-769092) which

wag forwarded in

UFAE-1118 Of 7 kay 1971.

shile ADUl thought the face familiar,

he vas unable to identity the photograph.

In addition to the above, ALLUG-l was also shown the

photographs of tho folloving individuals with negative results:

Garcia

(201-838320) and Sergio to lon

Valdes (201-751147)

CS f3%

clan 305x

Eustace D. FLOOCK

84749651

---

## Page 99

asle

CLASSIFICATTON

DISPATCH

INTO.

FROM

Chiel, Western Hasisphere Division

PROCESSING ACTION

| MUPKID FOR INDEXING

"then.

¡ONLY QUALIFIEO DISK

¡CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chiel of Station.

SUBJET

-MICROFILM

TYPIC/Revlow of Cubes Hugbooks Volumes IT and Ill ith AMUGl

ACTION REDURES - RUFFENCES

Forwarded herewith la & copy of Bistace D. KLOOCK's

contact report on his latest nooting with AnuGl. It

Is roquestod that all the individuals sentioned in this

roport be indexed.

Eustace D. ALOOCK

Attachnent: Contact Report

Distribution:

3-C/VHD, s/Btt, t/s

UYAA-3054

CLASSIFICATION,

21 MAY 1971*

MOS ARE MOWEEN

201-749631

---

## Page 100

DITATCH

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

PROCISSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

TOMLY QUALIFIED DISK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILA

INFO.

FROM

Chief of Station.

SUBJK!

TYPIC

Misit of U.S. Immigration Official to AMMUG-1

ACTION REQUIRED . REFIRINCES

ACTION REQUIRED: None, FYI only.

1.

During the undersigned's most recent meeting with

AMMUG-1,

the agent stated that a Mr. ReXM. GrI I f1D,

an

investigator of

the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

•(INS) had visited him on 13 April 1971.

According to AMMUG-1,

the purpose of Griffin's visit was to inquire into AMMUG-1's

present welfare and to determine his relationship to

Mr.

Rodino.

(COMMENT:

Mr. Rodino is the sponsor of

H.R. #2076 which

will expedite AMMUG-l's application for U.s.

citizenship by

waiving the standard waiting period.) When asked

about his relationship with Mr. Rodino, AMMUG-1 simply explained

that Mr. Rodino was a friend of his from Washington.

Griffin explained that the reason that he wanted to

talk to AMNUG-1 personally,

was the fact that nearly all of the

information surrounding AMMUG-1 was hold in INS$ office in

Washington. He added that the information that was held by the

Miami office was closely held and access to the files was

severely restricted.

During his visit, Griffin asked AMMUG-1 11

he noticed any unusual interest in his

comings and goings, to

which AMMUG-1 replied negatively.

3.

In view of above, belteve it reasonable to assume that

Griffin suspects that JKLANCE is somehow involved with AMMUG-1.

This position is concurred in by Station Officer who maintains

linison with the Miami office

of the INS.

1. AMMUG-1 characterized Me. Griffin's visit as being

that he was

"muy anable".

In sum,

there does not appear to be any need for intervention on

AMNUG-1's behalf or on that of the station.

If the need does

arise, we will promptly. Inforn Headquarters.

Eustace D.

DISTRIBUTION:

3 - C/WHD

CROSS REFERENCE TO

1: 597:

DEZATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFAA - 2951

SECR

DATE

Typed:

| HOS ME NUMBER

19 April 1971

201 - 749651

---

## Page 101

DISPATCH

CLASSINICATION

C.01

Chlot, Western Remlophers Diviöfon

caros of starso

TRIC /DCI-DES ORESCLALO KnOVO tO NATUC-L

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

FROCESSING-ACHION

X000E MARRED FOR INDIRING

ONLY QUALIFIO DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILA

Forwarded herewith la a contact report prepared by Bustace D.

KLOOK on hid most recent meeting wich AllUG l. During thie

meecing, Volune I of the Cuban Hugbook was reviewed with AMMuE-1.

The Individuale ANUG-I was able to Identify are listed in

paragraph 2 of the atcached contace report. It 10 requested chat

all che names be indered.

Bustaca Do Took ina

Atrachaent:

Contact Report

Distribution:

jlin

inte

CROSS REFERENCE TO

014-5-30

019-5-42

DISPATON SYMBOI AND MUMBER

URAA -2923

CLASSIFICATION

3 ApriL 19

IS FILE NEM

10229896104-949657

---

## Page 102

SECRET

NIEC

PAY 3197)

1 coc. inero.

CONTACT REPORT

AGENT: AMMUG-l

9. April 1971

CASE OFFICER: Eustace D. KLOOCK

PLACE: AMMUG-1's home

if selfict

n6-249657

On 6 April 1971 I reviewed with ANMUG-1, Volume I

of the Cuban mugbooks.

He identified the individuals listed

In para 2 below. Un less otherwise noted, the following

general comments apply to all:

That he knew them quite

well and the last time he saw them was 1963-1961, usually in

Arsenio R

FRANCO Villanueva

(201-346425).

According

to AMMUG-1, FRANCO Is G-2

approached

(at our behest) during

is one of the individuals he

the Pan Américan games

which were held in Puerto Rico in 1966.

FRANCO dismissed AMMUG-l's initial approach out of hand

stating that he was a Marxist-leninist.

According to ANMUG-1,

while a follow up was supposed to be made in Caguas

the staff officer who was accompanying AMSUG-i decided

against it;

Jorge E.

FCARCIA-BANGO Dirube (201-736192)

commented that GARCIA-BANGO was the other individual that

he tried to approach during the Pan American games.

FRANCO above, while a follow up was planned for Caguas,

Puerto Rico, the staff officer accompanying AMMUG-I decided

VECILO LOBAINA Lobaina.

760201

cit Cutrag

AMMUG-1 commented that he

did not know LOBAINA very well.

He added that he used to

be AMMUG-l's instructor in firearms at the Police Academy.

SECRET

83 60F1

201.249651

misting.on

---

## Page 103

SECRET

- 2=

to 201

PASTOR Rodriguez -

Armando PASTOR Rodriguez

(201-30007 possibly identifiable with

AMMUG-1 last saw

PASTOR about 1962 when he

was attached to the Administrative

Department of the Police Department.

Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montato (202-3289457.

identified CUANCA as being Dali

AMIUG-1

, Rafael PAEZ Perez

possibly identifiable with

RodOlfO PAEZ (201-334244)

Fernando FAVELO Renedo (201-765242).

AMMUG- 1

correctly identified"

_ "RAVELO""

_pseudo as being. "PERMIN!

Manue 1F Y

VEGA Perez (202-334253).

According to AMMUG-1,

in 1963, VEGA was the DGI desk

officer

for Nicaragua.

Joseph Parker MORRIS,

1201-345187)

he knew

SINOBAS fairly well.

Ramon SINOBAS Casado (201-334249). AJNTUG-1 said that

Carlos SixtolfaIN Soler (201-349576)

Juan Guido LICEA Figueredo 201-876266). ANNUG-1

identified LICEA as being a diplomatic courier commenting

that he only knows him casually as they used to take the

same plane from Cuba to Mexico

Augustin YASSELLS Gonzalez (201-315986).

identified YASSELLS as a diplomatic courier commenting

he only knows him casually as they used to take the same plane

from Cuba to Mexico.

Mario OiZ Falgueria (201-737651))

Raul VIERA Linares (201-328953))

ANHUG - 1

said

that his GI pseudo was "Gomez', and that he was

stationed

in Bollyta from 1962-1963.

Felipe

FLEAUDI llernandez (201-742052)

AMMUG-1

commented that LLAUDI's DGI pseudo was

"ROBANE"

Osvaldo RELORA Penechet (201-737138).

SECRET

---

## Page 104

3

Rogel1o RODRIGUEZ Lopez (201-332665) AWMUG-1

that he knew RODRIGUEZ quite well

and when

JuLIao NOVAS Fernandez (201-747936)

Scull termo ARASTAGUIA Fundora:

AMMUG-1 commented that

ARASTAGUTA

was a TSD technician and that his DGI pseudo was

"RENE"

Pedro FARINAS Diaz

201-728234.

AMMUG-1 commented

that FARINAS

DGI pseudo was

Elpidio INTERIAN Comezanes

(201-715393)

AMMUG-1

correctly identified INTERIAN as being a

. DGI

code clerk.

CO Comment:

INTERIAN is presently stationed in Santiago, Chile.

Jose LAI

LAIN Martin

Gonzalez (201-750250).

AMMUG-1

commented that he knew LAIN quite well and that in 1963,

LAIN used to be stationed in the Cuban Consulate in Merida.

Jose Benigno MEDINA Plasencia (201-756652).

AMMUG

identified MEDINA as being a TSD technician and

an expert

photographer.

h0201

Andres Nicolas AROMA Ramos, AMNUG-1 commented that

hIs DGI pseudo was "ERNESTO"

Orestes Guillerno

RUIZ Perez (201-7352962

According

to AMMUG-1, RUIZ

was in Mexico in

1964 where he was

In contact

with Noel GUERRERO, a member of the Nicaraguan FSLN.

Jose Miguel FERNANDEZ ROa (201-730852)

Guillermo SALGADO Alvarez: (201-331825))

correctly identified him as a diplomatic courier.

Angel fATo Ramtrez (201-351514)

TRUT 1B-Mat11la (202-733681)

AMMUG-1 identified

a TSD technician.

AngeL PIFERRER Mad.

Orlando

PRENDEZ Gutierrez (202-330002)

p.8.

eli:

---

## Page 105

14-00000

SEG.ET

- 4.

uis Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo.

(201-758151

AMMUG-1 commented

that HERNANDEZ had

He added that

HERNANDEZ, along with

ones

who

recruited him for the Dül.

ROselLOT MONTENEGRO Guasp (201-747803))

Chardia Homero SAKER Zenni (201-335014)

ANNUG-1 commented that the name listed for the

was incorrect.

real name is Gines

(CO Comment:

RODRIGUEZ 1s an allas used by GORRIZ.)

Jose L. POSADAS Torres

(701-334245)

Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez (202-334253)

SESHET

201-749651

---

## Page 106

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION.

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARRED FOR INDEXING

Chief of Station

INFO.

FROM

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALISED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDETING

SUBJECT

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

12 TYPIC/Cuban Hugbook

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

MICBOFILAR

REFERENCE: UFAA-2768, 1 March 1971

to AXCARD-2 Your

Your request to

AMMUGl is approved.

show the Cuban Hugbooks, Volumes I and II,

Per Reference,

paragraph

such photographs of Cuban

officials

Headauarters will forward

book (Volume III).

We are planning a slight change in the new Cuban Mug-

This Mugbook will be distributed earlier (1.e.,

after 100 photos have been collected rather than after 500 as was

the case with Volume II) and in looseleaf binders.

As new sections

of the Volume Ill are compiled, probably in groups of 100 photos,

they will be sent to the Stations concerned to be added to Volume

Incidentally, as a result of

your comment on the most recent

sending an alphabetical listing for Volume II to

the stations which received this Mugbook.

ornton

CARUANA

Distribution:

g - cos,

CROSS REFERENCE 10

f2-201-831373

E3 COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

19 MAR 1971

• UFAW-1070

CLASSIFICATION

SECR

ET

OFFICE

WHI/COG/OPS

HOS FILE NUMBER

4201-749651

ORIGINAlING

MPIST

•I Derihe: pae

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

Exr.

5061

(16 March 1971)

Distribution:!

1 - WH/COG/CHO

1-

WH/COG/OPS

Originator

- RID/D&P

fOEs

OSTICE SYMBOL

AC/WH/COG

DATE

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

1d0!

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

ATTU

---

## Page 107

a.t..

FAT vagination

SECKET

her Fishin

NOUTING ATE A INITIAL: SEEN BI

Eno 00..

121f 61

15H

SEGRET CIZIOSZ MAR

71 CiTe

INFC DIRECTOR

PSSS SSADELLY ACTINGS

TYR: C ANETROPIA

REF A

iMa k276573

3107275331)

276311)

3151.101.251

(231.253)

• C

2715 KNOT SENT

APFRECIATE REFS.

STILL

KEENLY

INTERESIED IN POSITIONINE

ANNUE-1 FOR FOSSIBLE

i DUPLICATE 00F%

FOR CROSS FINING IN

20k 749651

CON ACT WITH ALETROPIA-1._

REF E REFCATEO THAT

GUTINID REPORI OF 2S FESRUARY INDICATES

THAT ANEIROPIA-I EXPECTS TO COME TC

"WITHIN

FE: DAYS"

ONE OF SETON

• AND THAT HE WAS STAYING

IN

LONDON AT

GONZALEZ!

WIN MIAN! BELIEVES.

THAT CONTALE? IS FOSSIBLY IDENTIFIABLE WITH ELGENIO

GONZAL E Z ALVAREZ:

STATION HAS FOLLOWING

TRACES ON GONZALEZ WHICH MAY SE FASSED TO JAGUAR:

CONZALEZ'S MAME WAS INCLUDED IN A LIST

. .

IDENTIFYING COMMUNISTS/INFORMERS WHO WERE EMPLOYEES

AT THE U.S. ROYAL TIRE CO. IN HAVANA CASFASI -13

• 22 A 201-86 5517

2znke.

if curit

iCC.

z Lisi.

SECRET

---

## Page 108

…..'

HE DE SERBATION

Darice

SECRET

EL COPIES:

in.

TT.

ROUTING IOD OR GIAIS SEEN MY

FILE, VR

MAn 2 1026A4 '71

FORWARDED

RID/AN

PACE 2

10595 SECRET.

FEFORT OF 28 CV 19652 AND

=• DP03:

CIPCA 1915, CARAGUEY. EAGLY

•EVEER OF THE MILITIA AND A SUPPOSIER OF THE

CLEat FEVCLUTION. CUFCA 3725, 5 APRIL 1952)

SIATIC: HAS FOLLCWING TRACES ON A EUGENIO

SOUZALEZ WHO IS BELIEVED TO ES

IDENTIFIABLE WITH EUGGIO GONZALEZ ALVAREZ:

iN) CHIEF SUSSECTIONI-2/SPECIAL STEESLICE

LEANSTALS CUFO 5352, 15 JUNE 1964);

(8).

IS= "LA MOSCA" HEAD OF PAYMENT, SUB-SECTION

DE: THE GENERAL CONTROL SECTION OF THE CONSOLIDATED

PETECLEUM ENTERPAISE (ECE) OF THE MINISTSY OF

INDUETRIES CHIMINDS 6AA-4434, 12 JA: 19078 AID

iC ASSISTANT MANAGER OF CUBANETALS, HAVANA

(SP/WER215-6790 PER DER C, COIZALEZ ABRIVED

ADAID FROM CUSATON D6 DEC 1972 IN COMPANY SITH

CRETSOPIA-L. HE UTILIZES PP EF 67128.

SO REQUESI YOU CHECK HITE JAGUAR TO. IF: AND. DETERMINE

¿OTRALEZ'3

RESIDENCE AND/OP AREIROPIA-I'S

_it== FLAtS.

221-S6567 410201-495 101.

101-749651

SEGRET

---

## Page 109

14-00000

DISPATCH

(143S8*6177A

SECRET

Cree lestern Hearsphere Division

INFO.

FROM

SUBJECT

Actine chios of sadet

CaTIC Cuban Mugbook

ACTION REQUIRED - ESFERENCIS

ix

FASCESSING ACTION

8.2 215D FJR INDE XING

A INDEXING REQUIRES

1OR: QUALIFIED DESE

CRA JOGE INDEXING

ACPOFILMED

::R 81971

Request

nato-i cuban mugnooks,

permission to ssow ACARD-i and

Volume

He have noted that one number of occasions

pasi, photograpis of Cubas offrials which

inve been obtained by our various Stations abroad,

are generally sent only

'Iradgraitors.

when Headquarters does

such photograris

that Mi/bari be

provided with &

be borne in mind that barring over riding security

considerations, it is our

intention

t0 show such

ANCARD-1 and Area-i for possible

identification.

Eutrain I. Kirra

wistace D. ALOOCK

Distribution:

3 - Chief,

#HD

CROSS REFERENCE TO

15201-931373

G$ CORX

DISPATCH SYMBOL RED NUMBER

LERA-2768

CLASSIFICATIEM

SECTET

DATE

Typed:

HOS FILE NUMGER

1801-÷40651

2e: 1

26 February 1971

---

## Page 110

14-00000

X-REFo

201-0749551

-S-L-C-R=F-T

CATE 18/04073

X-PEF. SHEET

SYM

NUMBER

17543

DOC, DATE

25 FEB 73:

CLASSIFIÇATION

201-000554

¿THE EROVE DOCUMENT ISI IS CROSS REGERENCEO

• TE THE 201 FILE CITED UNDER LEFT MERGIN,

26 Feb 71.

20/10

2e1 - 144l51

S-E-C-D-E-?

---

## Page 111

PERNICE TURBEVILLE: ak

WH/COG/OPS

7141

R.

1819

J FEBRUARY 1971

SE CHETARIAT DISSIMiNATION

leassilitalion!

SECRET

INFO:

RABAT ANNUG AMETROPIA

NEF:

2961 (IN 256281)

ME SCAGE MOANI

TO. AL CUPILS: .

SIC.PFT

"RUG ANDION INITIAI

SINOLA

DO NO MOE: ATURNTO -

One i came mai

CELes ca c/ñz A/SECURY

dare and fime llled)

0222. izFiol

101190):

trolorance auber

CITE DIRECTOR

107366.7

IT 768

1. CONCUR. PLS SUPPLY TRAVEL DETAILS 48 HOURS IN ADVANCE AS

REQUIRED BY LNYUMA.

2. • FILE: 201-865547 AND 201-719651•

NiAR

5197!

DOC. MICRO. SE:

END OF MESSAGE

÷ 6719

2i:

$108-8655.47

JOHN SHERWOOD

EUR/COPS

RELEASINO OFFICER

k. 6.

1i s.:

AC/WII/COG

EUR/IB

4. 12

i' sevel

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

2.10

201-749657

27ed 7t

сіме

HILLIAM V

C/NuB 3302

TROUP T

ail

weing one

des ab-collas

REPRODUCTIGY BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

COPY NO.

---

## Page 112

CAELE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

LASSIFIED A'ESSATE

TOTAL COPIES 2.

SECRET

(hien Fillee in)

REPRODUCTION DE THIS CORT PROMIBITEO

ROUTING ANDICA

(

AETION UNIT

FILE, R SEgN SEURS de dFIZ

092

SECRET GZI73IZ FEB 7I CITE

2971

1:01

AIR

HEFO DIRECTOR

•SEAT AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF:

630

an 256355)

3.

6234 (1:206343)

1:

ArMUG-1 SCHEDULED LEAVE MADRID FOR NEW YORK ON

3 FEBRUARY VIA ISERIA FLT 951.

ONWARD FLIGHT NEW YORK TO

MIAMI 3 FEERUAÑY VIA EASTERN AIRLINES FLT 25.

STATICN PROVIED AMMUG-1 WITH 150 U.S. DOLLARS ON

2 FEBRUARY WHICK HE WILL ACCOUNT FOR IN MIAMI.

FILE 261-5556475 201-7496511

E C.R.ET

Me Trave

TaC

2u:

di

91 2026.648

ichún thun

NOROFINEN

MAR 51971

DOC. MICRO, SEr

=.0.

10i.

2FEB6 257392

P

1L20

CS 0077:

8201-8658547

2 FES 1371

801-749657

27207

SECRET

---

## Page 113

10.79

CAPLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

indie car Forties

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(When Filled In).

TOTAL CORES 221

FOUR NG AND A MATIALS SION DY

wit

1735002

Dor.

AP:

C.15EN11

DICTION

c/wit 8. 16

FILE, VR CRION e/Eva 5, 0/SEcuR4. c/a

0890

SECRET 011752Z FEB 71 CITEL

2964

PRIORITY

JINFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR,

RYBAT ANNUG AMETROPIA

REF:

78228(1256017)

IN VIEW COMPLETE ABSENCE INDICATIONS AT STATION OF

ANSIRCPIA-I TRAVEL, UNLESS OTHER STATIONS CAN PROVIDE

CONCRETE TARGET ETA

WITHIN NEXT 24 HOURS BELIEVE

AMMUG-I SHOULD RETRUN MOME 3 FEBRUARY.

2. FILE 241-865547; 221-745651. GP-1

SECRET

Fintire

TOX: 206284

SECRET

---

## Page 114

i SECRETARIAT DU SERMADON

-CLASSICED MESSICE

SECRET

(when Filied In)

TOTAL COMESE"'S

12

ROUTING AND:ON INITIALS-SCEN O

Asrareri cosy Xlisiuco

WH...

19553

9

ClwHt&

EL FILE, LE CRIAN, GEURS, DISEGURA CICI

C 205t

SE CRE TÜISISOZ FES TI CITEI

1425# (SADELLY ACTING)

PRIORITY

INFO PRIORITY

DIRECTOR L

57: 256343

C PARUNSA ANGUC AMETROPIA

8364 (0N256264)

CONCUR PLAN OUTLINED REF.

2. FILE: 201-505547: 201-7496510 GP-1

SECRET

SEGRET

---

## Page 115

14-000

•E SECRETARIAT DISSERDATION

19SURO

LILOSTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECIT

rai.

(then Filled In)

REPROGUETION DE

FLa 1.2008071

TOTAL COPS

POUTING AMOOR DURALS SEL*

er:

PER

()

FILE, VR:

(

RE T 811413Z FEB 71 CITE

PRIORITY

INFO DIRECTOR, [

RYBAT AMMUG AMETROPIA

1.: ASHIUG-1'S WIFE SAID JI JANUARY THAT AMMUG-1'S

EMPLOYERS CALLED MER ON 27 JANUARY TO INQUIRE WHEN

AMMUG-I WOULD RETURN TO WORK.. AS AMMUG-I HAD TOLD

HIS EMPLOYERS THAT HE HAD TO VISIT A SICK RELATIVE

IN NEW YORK, SHE REPLIED THAI THE RELATIVE'S

CONDITION WAS STILL GRAVE AND THAT SHE DID NOT

6228 & SADELLY ACTING)

KNOW JUST WHEN AMMUG! WOULD RETURN TO WORK.

• 2.

FO?

WE ARE RELUCTANT TO WITHDRAW

AMMUG-1 AT THIS POINT. HOWEVER, WE DO NOT WAIT

TO JEOPARDIZE ANNUS-L'S JOB SECURITY WHICH COULD

Li TERN ADVERSELY AFFECT HIS MOLE FUTURE OFS. I'S

BELIEVE, THEREFORE, WE SHOULD SET A CUTUFF DATE ON

ANMUG-L'S PRESENT IDY IF

AMETROPIA-1: REMAINS UNLOCATED.

PPRECIATE YOUR THOUGHIS THIS MATTER.

3.. FILE: 261-665547; 281-749551. GPI.

SECRET

IFOM 256017

SECRET

IFE671

---

## Page 116

14-00n1

•SABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEVINATION

ADVANCE COPY

_ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

•(When Fried In)

TOTAL COPIES

GROUS 1

REBRODUCTICS

COPY PROMiBITEd

v:

BASEN BY

ICTION. UM

PEA

FILE, VR clailAN clues dei cAz

ACTION NO.

924

SECRE I OLITCOZ FEB 71 CITE

1.839

INFO

DIRECTOR

RYSAT

REF:

AMMUG AMETROPIA

6228(1| 256017)

AS PÖSSIBLE INPUT TO HELE ANSWER REF, JAGUAR

CONTINUE TO REPORT AS OF ISDO HOURS LOCAL, THEY HAVE NO

INFO TO SHOW AMETROPIA/I HAS LEFTI

2.

FILE: 201-965547; 201-7496510

GP- 1

SECRET

SECRET

ROUTING ANDIOR IMITIALS-SEEN' BY.

: 6

IFEBl 256358

, FEb'11

---

## Page 117

TOTAL PERIES.

Serrive

SECRET

when thied ins

MinicE coor DISSIO: DO SLOTTED

Disson or a

ACTIQN-W91T

C/U 8:

ACTREM

FILE VR O/RIAN C/EURS c/FI2 c/cL

SECRE I 281502Z JAN 17 CITE

PRIORITY

INFO

7711

DIRECTOR

RYBAT AMETROPIA

AMMUG

REF

2915(12 2519411)

23JNE 253864

OVER LAST SEVERAL DAYS ON ZASIS AMMUG/ I ARRIVAL

STATION HAS PUT CONSIDERABLE PRESSURE ON JAGUYR TO PROVIDE MORE

TIMELY INFO ON ARRIVAL/DEPARTURE OF WAICHLISTED. CUBANS AND HAVE

CITED AMETROPIA/I AS A CASE OF CONSIDERABLE IMPORIANCE TO JKLANCE.

Ê 2.1 AS OF 1508 HOURS LOCAL, JAGUAR MAINTAINED THERE NO

RECORD AMETROPIA/I HAS LEFI

JEGUAR HAS FiLERTED BAIRN

TRANSCRIBERS AND HAS PROMISED TO REPORT TO SIATION ASAP ANY

INFO ON FUTURE PLANS FOR PRESENT WHEREABOUTS AMMUST!.

$ 3. AS

KNOWS, BEA ON STRIKE AND IT POSSIBLE AMMUGAS

ONWARD TRAVEL DELAYED.

84 FILE 201-865547.

GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

22. 50071

---

## Page 118

C

:C

C*=:

SECRE iNRAT DISSERINATION

•*'LESSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 2"

SECRET

GREUL!

(ihen Filled in)

_SOTTE=

3

ci1o:0r

Man duC,46110109144741 21

0 14)

SE CRET 271523Z JAY 7I CITE

1369

27JuN 253082

INF

DIRECIOR

MYBAT AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF:

2915(1-951591)

•1.. TELEPHONE CALL MACE TO COMMERCIAL

OFFICE, SUSJECT WAS ASKE FOR IN FULL NAME BUT RESPONSE WAS

"ROSSIGUEZ" NO HERE. NO

OTHER DETAILS

THE OETAINABLE.

2. NOTE CUBAN CORMERCIAL CONSEILLER NAME ALDO RODRIGUEZ

CA:rS.

3. FILE: 201-865547.

SECRET

GP- |

27 Janvi

SECRET

---

## Page 119

(

shorthanD.

CLASSED MERCEDE

SSCHET

DISECUR 4

E-T 26.0s1z J92

71 CITS

INFO

2915

PRIORIT)

TYBAT AUDIGOREA ASHUG

REF: A.

E.

DIRECTOR

cula (IN 2481010)

917 (IN 242980)

DO COULO APPRECIATS ATTEMPT EY ACTION ADDERS CONFIRY

15JA 25 1 891

PHONE CALLED COLNERCIAL OFFICER ANUS-I

tiGH

AND STATION HAS NO 14FO GAILABLE AS

3 OF MORNING SO JAUNSY

EO : HEPC-OUTE ANETROPIA-I. PLEASE ADVISE.

..

FILE 20I-365547. CP-1

26 Janis

SECRET

---

## Page 120

TOTALCESSEL

an ande con Crisiss

Jis 25

7230071 Manolse o

Tüberilli

4.2

!

SECRET 2310352 JAN TI CITEL

2898

INFO DIRECTOR

23000 250488

RYBAI AMSTROPIA AMMUG

REF:

2881(1N248307)

AMNUG- MADE MADE CONTACT WITH STATION MORNING 23 JANUARY

PER REF:

2. FILE: 201-865547 GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

23. Jan 71

---

## Page 121

C

CABLE• SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION..

CLASSIFIED MESSEGE

TOTAL COMES LE

SECaCT

APPAPiCE COFy

- - AP:.

CISSON SY

8:

ACTICE UNIT

2) H

PER

SECRET 221603Z JAN 71 CITEL

PRIORITY

INFO PRIORITY

1375

ROUTINE DIRECTOR,

REF:

9937 (246530)

1.

RE REF REQUEST

REPORTS AS OF 22. JANUARY

•71 THEY HAVE NO RECORD OF ANYONE SY NAME OF SUBJ REF:

ENTERING

TO ENTER

HOWSVER, NOTE IT POSSIBLE FOR PERSON

WITHOUT IT BEING RECORDED BY AUTHORITIES

PARTICULARLY IF HE COMES

VIA OTHER

COUNTRY IN WHICH CASE CONTROLS ON ENTERING

ARE

LIMITED OR KON EXISTENT.

2.. FILE: 291-3655470

GP- 1

SECRET

121N0246008

SECRET

a J5an71

---

## Page 122

10.83

EDITIONS

O FACE SECISTARIAT DISSEMRIATION

WHOE

1 . .....

-" LASSIFICO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 2"1)

GROUP 1

(li/ren Follers In)

SECRET ST

1.12

REPROSUETION OF IMOGODY PROMME:

ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS.SCE

© ...

ar.

7815=

: A016n00r?

951227-0

TURBEVILLE

fILE, VR

0

46/

SECRE I 2113002 JAN TA CITE 2885

IMEDIATE

JINFO GENTATE DIRECTOR

8137

249149)

1.

A 39-1 HAS RESERVATION AT MOTEL

21JuM 245203

2. FILE 201-365547, 201-749651.

GP- 1

SECRET

.. ..

SECRET

21 5171

---

## Page 123

Fona3039

119.08

USE. PREVIOUS

LOITIONS

•••CALLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIMATION

Torati

wit

2..-

1721

—_ 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ToTAL Con (23) 3

(When

JANI TORPE

MORE

ACTION COPY

MFG 8.7:

FLUENG AND OR INITIRLS-STEM S

1-':

clut 8

FILE, VR

( 555T.

SECRET 211643Z JAN TI CITE

II MEDIATE

INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR

RYBAT PORUMEN AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF:

10137(1-249149)

0133

11Jme 216150

• .

IDENTITY:

SECRET

?1:.n71

---

## Page 124

210:

BERNICE CURBEVILLE:pEd

818:

#H/COG/OPS

•!:.

R1S19

ATE:

21 JAN 197.1

aBLE SECRETARiAT DISSEMINATION

n.34

_ PER

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES::

SECRET

• NO INDEX

'FILE IN CS FILE NO.

O RETURN TO -

- BRẠNGH

DELE RIO

TO

(dale and lione lilad)

(e lassilicattonl

SECRET.

2! Vix?! 23

r PRIORITY

RYBAT PBRUMEN AJETROPIA AJMUG

REF:

0137 (IN 249149)

452

(roferonco numberd

CITE DIRECTORS 4 2.25

:7

1.

AGREE WITH REF OPS PLANNING.

2. FILE 201-865547 AND 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE

WILLIAM V.

BROE

JOIN' HI.

SHERNOOD

C/EUR/COPS

RELEASINO OFFIÇER

EUR/IB

WESLEY

L. LAMBOURNE

AC/WIl/COG

COOrDINATINO OFFICERS

SECRET

Easte to a treme

calamelle

end

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

REPFODUCTICN BY OTHER IHAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIGITED.

COPY AC

21 Jan 71.

---

## Page 125

14-00000

© *2033

1r.60

USE SEVICUS

COiTIONS

CLASSIF LO MESSAGE

SECPST

(whenaries in)

TOTAL COPIE

AOUTING AND:OR INITIALS-SEEN

5

ROUES 0501783

SheS

DT:

ACTION COPY.

= sara D.

PER.

c 5.56

SECRET 211643Z JAN 7I CITE

INEDIATE

0137

REF A

B

INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR

PERUMEN ANETROPIA AMMUG

Tessic in 248302)

DISECTOR 103557

1. WHILE THE OPERATIONAL CLINATE/ SITUATION WILL

KEIGH HEAVILY IN YOUR FINAL DECISION AS JUST HOW AMMUG- 1

VILL APPROACH AMETROPIA-1, WE FORWARD THE FOLLOWING

POINTS FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION: CAD AMMUG-1'S

•ELATIONSHIP WIIN AMETROPIA-I AS A FRIEND/CONFIDANT

DATES BACK TO THEIR CHILDHOOD. WHILE AMMUG- I ALSO

KiEW AMETROPIA-L'S BROTHER, IDENTITY, HE WAS CLOSER TO

AMSTROPIA-I: (E) THIS CLOSE RELATIONSHIP STILL EXISTED

WHEN AMMUC-I LAST SAW AMETROPIA-I IN 1963; (C)

AMMUG - 1

STILL FIRMLY SELIEVES THAT AMETROPIA-I WILL TALK TO HIM

IF THE OPPOSTUNITY PRESENTS ITSELF: <D›

ANNUG-I DOES NOT

SELIEVE THAT AMETFOPIA-I IS A LOYAL SUPPORTER OF THE

ARTHUG-1 REGIME; CES ACCORDING TO A MUG-, THE ONLY

THING AMETROPIA-I WANIED IN LIFE WAS THE OPPORTUNITY

TO COME TO WOCORK; (FY THAT TO HAVE ANHUG-I PHONE

LUEBEVILLE

21Jul 245149

81 Jan 71

---

## Page 126

14-00010

FORM JASO

ÚSÉ PREVIOUS.

EDITIONS

C'ELE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIMATION

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

(When Foller! In)

TOTAL COPIES

MAFE

ROUTING AND'OR INITIALS-SEEN E

•5.

Lissuco

ov:.

DISSEM OV

© ACTIGN UNIT

ACTICH NO.

PER

FILE, VR

FAGE 2

0137 SECRET

ANETROPIA-1, WHERE AMETROPIA-I WOULD HAVE THE CHANCE

D REFUSE CONTACT, IS PROBABLY THE LEAST DESIRABLE

APPROACH. ANGUG-I'S ASSESSMENT

OF COURSE IS BASED

O OBSERVATIONS NOW EIGHT YEARS OLD.

2• WE DO NOT BELIEVE THAT AMETROPIA-I SHOULD

SE GURDENED WITH ANN CLANDESTINE COMMO AT THIS POINT•

ÄFFER

TO

= JIO SUPPLY AN ACCOMMODATION ADDRESS

OR OPS PHONE NUMBER AS APPROPRIATE IF OP DEVELOPS SUCCESSFULLY.

WE EXPECI THAT IF AMETROPIA-I ACCEPTS THE PITCH,

HE WILL ASK JUST WHAT HE WILL GET IN RETURN AND

PROSABLY HIS CHANCES FOR RESETTLEMENT IN WOCORK.

WE DO NOT BELIEVE THAT

ANY CONNITMEIT RESETILENENT

IN WOCORK CAN OR SHOULD DE MADE AT THIS TIME. RATHER

THAT. HE

SE TOLD THAT POSSIBILITY FOR RESETTLENENT

IN WOCORK WILL DEPEND ENTIRELY ON THE EXTENT OF HIS

OCOPERATION WITH JKLANCE. IF THE QUESTION OF MONETARY

RECOMPENSE IS RAISED AMMUG-I SHOULD LIDICE SALARY

WE ARE THINKING IN THE RANGE (300 TO 5500) WILL SE

IUT IN AN ESCROW ACCOUNT®

3.

WILL INFOR AMUG-I THAT THE GUIDANCE

CLODET

---

## Page 127

16.os

USE FSEVIOUS

EDiTICriS

C CASE SECTARAT CISSATION

1X267801065

JIssUED

LoTTED

MFG 8.71

ROUTINO AND OR INITIALS-SEEN GI

CLASSIFILO MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET:

(W/ren Files ir)

REPRODUCTION OF ThIS COPY PROMIRiPED

13 7:

DISSEN DY

ins 3

FILE, VR

ACTION NO.

PAGE 3|

0137 SECRET

FOR THIS OPERATION WILL BE PROVIDED SY STATION

FOR

AMMUG-I WILL DFPART MIAMI ON EASTERN FLIGHT

29,

1423 LOCAL ON 22 JANUARY FOR NEW YORK.. HE WILL

CÉPARI NEW YORK AI 1903 LOCAL ON ISERIA FLIGHT

SiZ SAME DAY AND WILL ARRIVI

JANUARY, DOES STATIONE

2730, 23

_HAVE OPS PREFERENCE

FOR AMMUG-I MOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS IN

4. FORWARDING SEPARATELY REQUIREVENTS FOR

USE WITH AMETROPIA-I.

S. FILE: 241-355547;

SECRET

201-749551.

GPI.

---

## Page 128

LDITIONS

CALE SECHS CARLET DISE ROADIO!..

.?.

2=21

Wtia

710

SE

I REDIATE

PARIS

TYPIC AIETROPIA

18F:

11NFO 1AGRDIAT: DIRECTOR 10071

20aw0000l7

1. 28 REF, HAVE W0EKE-1 C1

FOR "GanGIO" 01. YORK DAYS LATURE: CARE: 103 151 - 1656

AND ASK

FILE: 201-305047, GP-1

•SECRET

63

.. 201565542

fice 2030971

201-749651

---

## Page 129

SECRET

No. 201-749651

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, WH/COG/OPS - B. Turbeville

Operational Approval is tereby Amendedn the case of AMMUGli

-, for the purpose specified in your request

dated as follows:

Subject's OA is amended herewith to authorize his operational

use outside the United States as set forth in his PRQ Part II dated

13 February 1965, per your memorandum request of 31. December 1970.

This Approval is based no evaluation of information available

to this

Office, and is grarited under authority contained in CSI and CSI-° 10-5.

1S7 Jotin E. Bowerd

CI/OPRATIONAL APPPOVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 6 January 1971 lc

SECRET

•ORE

• 68

124

888840 ÷83199

4Jax71

---

## Page 130

14-00000

MESSAGE. LAI

SC

BOUTO AND/OR ITIALS - SEEN DY

B.

VILLE: all

Hil CO/OPS

tT:

'ATE:

7111/1819

§ JANUARY 1971

•ADLE SECRETARIAT DISSENSMATION

: ONF:

Wins.

В me. va.

EJ NO INDEX

• FiLE IN CE FiLENO.

B/2 / 0/co

(date and there foled)

TURN TO C

" BRANCH

(classilicetion)

SECRE

T

(roierence number)

10

Г

if?

CITE DIRECTOR

09,9417

TYPIC

CREE: DIRECTOR-097508

1. ALBUG -1 O1 GRASTED EFFECTIVE 5 JAN FOR OPS

USE OUTSIDE U.S. AS SET FORTH IN PRQ DATED 1965.

• 2.

SUBJECT REF ASSIGNED ANETROPIA-1.

3. FILE: 201-365547, 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE

1elol=

7

MICROFILMED

JAN & 0 1971

DOC. MICRO.SER.

While

WILLIAN V

BROE

13201-741651

RELEASING OFFICEA

WESLEY L.

LAYDOURNE

AC/WII/COG

COOADINATING OFFICERS

261865547

clamoli€

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICEN

SPCRET

REPRODUCTICI SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHISITED.

COPY NO.

---

## Page 131

¡ABLE SCCFPTARIAY MISSEUINATION

+95E091T0I9120ED

ADVANCE COPY DISSUED

MASTIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

101O? COE

O SLOTTED I

REPRODUCZION OF THIS COPY FiRMINITLO

1c: 3 71

0I53EH

ACPION

4/38

Мина

ACTION

187

Turerucer

• [*

FILE. VR: C/RIaN, C/EURS, ClOL, CLEI2,

5.AN in 237892

SECRET 05ZZIGZ JAN 71 CITE

PRIORITY

RYBAT

REF A

9956

INFO DIRECIOR®

→(5N 237738)

7124 (NOT SENT

B

73910 (E.

237605)

1o

FOR

OUR INTEREST IN ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ

LLOMPART IS BASICALLY OUR ASSESSMENT THAT HE IS RECRUITABLE. THIS

ASSESSMENT PROVIDED US BY UNE OF RODRIGUEZ'S CLOSES? FRIENDS WHO IS

PRESENTLY RESIDING UNITED STATES. BRIEFLY SIATED THIS ASSESSMENT

INDICATES THAT RODRIGUEZ HAS TALKED AGAINST THE CUBAN REVOLUTION AND

COMMUNISIS. ACCORDING TO ASSESSOR, RODRIGUEZ HAD ONLY ONE

PRINCIPAL IDEA AND THAT WÁS TO LEAVE CUBA AND GO TO THE STATES.

2. WE DO NOI THEREFORE, HAVE ANY DEROG INFO PER SE. HERE

FOLLOWS A BIOGRAPHIC SUMMARY ON RODRIGUEZ: DPOB: 22 OCT 1932,

REGLA, CUBA. IN OCTOBER 1963 RODRIGUEZ APPOINTED DIRECTOR OF

MINING INDUSTRY SUPPLY UNIT, UNDER MINISTRY OF MINES, FUEL AND

METALLURGY. IT IS BELIEVED THAT SUBJECT OWES HIS POSITION TO HIS

BROTHER, NECTOR, WHO IS PRESENTLY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO EAST GERMANY.

PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION: HT: 64 INCHES, WI: 110 LBS, HAIR: STRAIGHT

BLACKO

SECRET

5 J6.1 71

---

## Page 132

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET:

IN

PAGE

PAGE

9956 S E CRET

30

FOR

DPOB AAS PER PARA TWO. IN JUNE 1978, RODRIGUEZ

WAS REPORTED

AS HOLDING CUBAN DIPLOMATIG PPI D/67/587, ISSUED HAVANA

6 SEPT 1967.

4.

FILE? 201-865547-

SECR

E T

SECRET

---

## Page 133

14-00000

DE SON ONT

mine Midmen in

wow twist,

LUIAL LU

GROUP I

SECRET

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTiON OF THIS CO"Y PROMiITED

Jan 8/4/22 03 71

ar.:

DISHIN OY

ACTION

FILE, VR

E CRE T T 0S1722Z JAN 71 CITE

PRIORITY

INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC

REF

7124

S JANN 237738

89883(4 234350)

IN ORDER MAKE STRONGER CASE WITH JAGUAR FOR COVERAGE

OF RODRIGUEZ, WOULD APPRECIATE SHORI SUMMARY DEROG INFO FOR

PASSING JAGUAR: SINCE

HAS NO TRACES•

2. FILE 201-865545.

GP- 1

SECRET

SECRET

5 Jan7"

---

## Page 134

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIC

FERSON UNIT NETINGS

ADIANCO COPY

JIssues

_SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIN 23

SECRET

GROUS I

or: 48199 5549399

REPROJUETION OF THIS CODY PROMIDITES

POUTING AND OR MITIALS-SEEN A

*

DY: -

DISSEN I

ACTI

FILE, VR

ACTION

0/02

TURBEVILLE

EURG. BlAN cuclops. alier. G

SECRET 05 1550Z. JAN TI CITE

_INFO DIRECIOR,

8910

5 JANN 237205

TYPIC

REF:

79914 (4235845)

1.

STATION HAS REQUESTED LIAISON WAICHLISTING SUBJECT

REF AND RELATED ON WHOM WE HAVE ONLY FULL NAME, TO INCREASE

CHANCES EFFECTIVE LIAISON ACTION, WOULD APPRECIATE RECEIPT

• DPOB AND, IF AVAILABLE, PASSPORT TYPE AND NUMBER.

2. FILE: 201-865545.

GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

5.J0n71

---

## Page 135

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEVINATION

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COME D ISSUED

O SLOTTED

PIED MES: AGE

TOTA.

00P. [s

JECRET

(When Filled al

REPRODUCTICN OF THIS COON PRSMIGITEO

=v:.

-ст.

ACTION UNIT

FILE. VR.

ACTICH NO.

5391

SECRET 312214Z DEC 79 CITE.

INCEDIATE

INFO DIRECIOR

• YPIC A"US AQUATIC"

COTEF: WHY TANT 9915 FUR

SEND PHOTOS TO IDENTITY. SP-i.

SECRET

0696

2 JAS: 236095

CS GOTY

SECRET

2. Jain. 21

201-749457

---

