104-10185-10145)

cord AGENCY

CENTRAL INTILLIGS

as soataiss tema AOE: the Netiouat Detcase of the sited state withla the meaning of the Eapiccayy Lane tir
TH and TA fhe Eesemimig of Fereiation of WSK In ALy MARIE to wn Unautborieé perma ls pretactnt by lew.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

counray ‘Cuba REPORT NO, © CS. CI~316/00241-64

SuBECT Eulogio POXS DATE DISTR. 17 July 1964 i
NO. PAGES a

REFERENCES, :

eo} oF i: =

ia & Washington, D.C.
3

DATE ACQ. July 1964 FIELD_REPORT.NO.
This 1S UNSVALUSTED (NSSEMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TRGATVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban. Intelligence
Service until April 1964, oa

Headquarters Comnents

1, The following report is one of a series containing .
personality information provided by the source and ~~
includes supplemental information fron the records :
of this Agency.

2, It is requested that the addressees take no action on
any of the individuals mentioned in the personality
reports without first checking with this Agency.

Zulogio ‘PONS, pseudonyn "Eloy," who resides at Calle Septina,
Esquina 60, Apto 2, Miramar, Habana, is an officer in the
Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate :
of Intelligence).

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency revezl no indentifiable
information oa PONS.

SECRET ;
NO FOREIGN DISSE :
2

1

wwoab

STATE Tou Lamy NANY Taz dasa XEX bose Trsr 2 }
CINCSO # ISNS |

[Rae Fate ein

I)
T3TTE
[LAE

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID1

Bit pe] OSSOLETS PRETIOTS SITIONS.
