04-0447 40827

| INTERNAL USE ONLY 7 =

i a et ne te 2 eee :
2 Lz 7-006 | Bt |
Addendum to Journal - Office of Legislative Counsé. oswatd

. aus jas

Monday - 19 September 1977

19, (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Received a call from

Charlie Shaffer, IPS, who was seeking a response to be made from

Ms, Trudy Peterson, National Archives (523-3132), who.is inquiring
about a Memorandum of Understanding executed between the CIA and
the House Select Committee on Assassinations, dated 19 August 1977.
I indicated that Doug Cummins would respond to this-telephone call,

20. (Internal Use Only - DTC) LIAISON Talked with
Walter Sheridan and James Michie, staff of the Senate Human Resources
Subcommittee on Health and Scientific Research, several times during
the day and discussed matters in relation to the 21 September 1977
open hearing. :

21, (Internal Use Only - DTC) LIAISON Talked with

‘Gol, Stephen Harrick, DOD,’ and- Robert Andrews, Special Assistant

to the General Counsel, DOD, several times during the day concerning
material they requested relative to the open hearing concerning Projects _
OFTEN and CHICKWIT which had Defense Department involvement.

22, (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Talked with Anne Karalekas,
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, regarding the status
of the Select Committee request on Elias Demetracopoulos and its
status. I informed her.of where the matter stood.

23. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Professor G. Robert
Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee on — -
Assassinations, called to request that arrangements be made for
certain staffers of the Select Committee meet with someone from the
Agency concerning name traces, He also requested that they be
permitted to review the Marina Oswald file. A meeting was set up
for Tuesday, 20 September, with Russ Holmes, DDO. {0 ben Sa

Lyk L marae :
“ Acting Legislative Counsel

cc:
O/DDCI
Mr(,.
DDI
Mr. Lapham Mr. Hetu
SA/DO/O IC Staff
Compt NIO

RBII0Og
