# 104-10101-10255

## Page 1

104-10101-10255

ONG.

1: 0%

1H6S 14 MAY

01321 DEC

P. VAIVIDI

S./г33

€4?3

TC

(iDE ECLOU)

FRCH:

Disseted

CONF:

S?

7

i CLASSIFED MESSAGE

ONCER

D NO :NDER

INFO I

TO

A5D2, CH/OPS, E1/10 2,

CEO: *Số2

VR

(POJCHES:

F1/INT 2, li, LEd, WE 4, ME 9, !

SOME 31 DDED: SR 6

BOCK CABLE

HOURAG

$

DEFERRED

* ROUTINE

CITE DIR

90593

1SXI

REDWOOD

BY POUCH:

RDE: DIR 79919

1. FOLLOWING, AS MILI AS ZAULIER, CABLES THIS SERIES INTENDED

PRIMARILY AS OPERATIAL LID 701: STAELISE ING CATTACT IN DEVELOPMENIAL

CONVURSAZIONS WITH SOVIETS FOR PL: FOSSS CE ASSESSNENT AND EVALUATION.

IVTELLIGZACE SHOULD BE BEGARDED AL USEFUL BY-FRODUCI: PER PARA 1 REF,

TAIS QUIDANCE (SLIGENTY QUIRED IC UPCOMIRG HALIDAYS) MAY IS CUTERED TO

ODACID AND OUTER COLIRACUES OR USID IN SUTTAELS: CPGRATICHAL SITUATIONS.

MUST BE DORS IN MIND SOVISTS ATE UPT DISINCE THRU SOCIAL CONTACTS WITH

MESIC IDAS. DETAILS OF CONTACIS SHOULD MORALLY ZE RPPORERO THROUGH OPS

CHANNELS. BQ WILT. BORERS FOR VALTD INTEL.

2. 8) SIOOTE TRANSITIQI dE POVER I U.S. 10 JOINBC HAS AROUSED WORLD-

VIDE ADMIRATION. DO YOU SEE AITY IMPLICATIONS OR INESCUS IN THIS FOR SOVIET

UNION AND UPCOMING TRANSITION TO KENUSECHEV SUCCESSOR. HOM SOVIST TRANSITION

LIKELY TAKE PLACE AND WHAI ARE LE AL MECHANICS CE TRANSITIONY.

ACLEABIN®

OFFICER

COONS MATINE OFCICERS

5-E-C-R-E-I

REPROSUCTION DE OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PBOHIAITEN

AUTHENTICATING

ICE#

: Conny Men

16190

---

## Page 2

: IT

• No Sones She

DATE !

TO !

PROM, DIRECTOR EV

And bode

D RUFIN CSILENO

* дР

VEL SLAN

15777

DEPLANESE

ROUTINE ASS

19760

rats

237e2

TO

INFO

00583

5) DOES ANY POSSIBILIT: ECUT VIAT BUS VETO SOUR SOCI AS CATTA

TOR

TO REFLABOT

ACUULATO DE GRIANCES...

o) MOSCOW EAS HISPEATSILY ACCUSRI CHIC

ONS CE MECLUTCAL "THPARTILDEN. "

I THIE IS INTANED SO AGAN LIAI CHNESS READ NAUT-LENT TOO LUBRALY, AND

WITH OREALITIC WISHUL THINCIO TENS MSHE HAADIO WOL BIT

NGS ARIORE,

REVERSE OF TETS WOULD MEAN TEAT FREKLIN ITBSCE HOW DI

IF HORT REALISTIC AND ADULT PASTON, IN TOM WITH TIMS. I SO, ON WHAT DORE

THIS MORE MATURE IDEOLOGICAL APPRICACE CONSISE; I SO, KEY IS SON UNICE HOW

MORE THAN EVER EBBET WITH OVERWE IMTNGLY UROKIT PROBLIMB CE SUCH BABIC MATTERS

AS ERBAD AND OTHER DAILY NEEDS TIB ITS PEOPLE?

...•

VOZICOSENERTY 'S BENITENG DERISONY STATED STARIS'S ECONGHIE ENRONS" DATE BACK IO

1928-1929. THIS APPEARS TO RAKI: JU EÜS DECISION IO PURSUS ECOTOMICALIS

UNBALANCING PROGRAM DE RAPID COLICT IVIZATIC AND EQUALLY ONBALANCED OVER-

CONCEIFTRATICE ON FRAVI INIUSIRY. IS TELS CURRECT! DOES THIS MBAN EARLY

ISORSINATING ORTIGERS

REGRADING

office

AUTHEN

REPROQUETION M OTHER T LAN THE ISSUINS OFFICE IS PROMIETTED

ICATIEN

Copi Me

---

## Page 3

DAY

10

FROM: DiRICTOR

CONF:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

INFO

90593

- 3-

PERABILITATION OF CIOSE LEO OFFUSE) SUCH SIALIN PROGRAN, SUCE AS BUKHARIN? IN

DRIVE FOR CEDMICALIZATICI IS NOT K PUSECIEV ACADI REPEATING THIS FUNDANENTAI

•STALIN ERROR OF INEALINCE? OR DOES HE FEEL HE HAS ADEQUATE BASE IN RESEARCE,

PRECISIC INSERUINTATION, XIES, IN SAIENTALS, ELILIED LABCE AND TRANSPORTATION,

ETC THAT LARGE SCALE CILY INDUSIRY ITXORABLY DEMANDS.

e) AI KERUSECELY-STALIN "EVEL, MBAI IS "ECONOMIC ERROR" AND "ECONCHIC

CRIE

STALIN HAS EDEN ACCUSED Q BONI.

I) SOE EUROPEAN RIVERS' MAN AHIJ SOV-CHTRESE CONFLICT AND MOSCOW

INABILITY TO CONVOKE WORLD COMUNIST CORE. FOR AMNIVERGARY OF REVOLUIION AS

EVIDENCE IRREVERSIBTE FRAGHENIATIOI AND IECLINE OF COQUNIST NOVEMENT UNDER

MPICT O IVERS ICHASING MUN DESIS, AN DETACTAR NRID FROGRESS IN

TECANGLOGI, PARIIGUIATLI ¡CAPUTS, FANSPORTITICA ARD CONICATICAS. IÙ I00

THIK THERE'S ANY TRUTE IN THIS? IF NOT, HOULD YOU SAY THAT OQMUNISE IS

COPING WITE WORLD PROBLEMS ADEQUATIY; ECHY IS CONUNIST HOTTO NOW "WCRKERS OF

WORLD, DISUN LIE?"

•&) FROM MOSCON POINT OF VIEW. SOVIET IR EASI GERMAN OFFINIALS HEO

ITTERALLY KNOCKED EQLES IN FERLIT ALL FOR IILUX CE XVAS VISITORS TO EAST

DIS/SIRCUS

BERI, IN SHOULD EE FIRED FOR COLLUNG MISTERLI PEOPAGANDA BLUDER BEFORE

COORJIGITING CFFICERS

RELEASINO OFFICER

Cardo 90d lions art aratoe

AUTMSNTICATINA

OBFICER

REPRODUCTICN DI DÍNES TRIA THE ISSUG OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Me

---

## Page 4

C INDEL

C NO TIDE

O FLE IN CS FILE NQ..

DATE

:.TO.

FROM! DIRECTOR

2. 704

LOUNNE

140 в.

TO

INFO

• CITE Of

90593

- 1.

WORLD OPINIOT, HOM DO YOU FEEL, ABOTA IN THST RSANAKKUED IVERY FARTING OF

•RIVULSION AID FINAI DEGRADATION TIE WALI REPRESENIS, IX FORCINO PROPIE 20.

CRATI TEHO

У МОСІ МАНІНОРОЕ

RELIRIOUS HOLIDAY. IS THIS THE RISD dE VESTA TO SE

FICIED OF A MATURE

MATION AND QUE THAT CLAINS IO VALIE BRIANT NO CUTORE AS NUCH AS INDIVINTAI

BUBSIANS DO? HOW DO YOU EXPIADI INP

b). IN ALI RUSSIAN WRITIIGS - OUD AND HEN - NONE FREQUENT SIGNIFICANT

WORD IS "INTETICENIBIA." WIAT DOSS IT ACTUALLY PAS NED NEO COMSTITUIES

SOVIET INTEL

ANTSIA MOH. ARE YOU MEER ITELICEINEIA ADIOUATICALIY SY

VIRILE YOUR DIFICATIC SERVICE: "HO AFE IS FORENOST SPOKESENT

1) RUSSIAN WRITER IYUICEY HAS SAID:' "HOI WIVE IND IS RUBSIA

COMPEREINED, - LY RUSSIA YOU MUST JUST ETIEVE. " HOULD YOU CARE IO COMMENT

ON THIS AND RUSSIAN QUALITIES LEADING TEE POET TO SUCH CONCLUSION!

3. SISPARATE ONSOLIONS WITH INTAILED GUIDANCE ON LATIFT SOVIET

ECONCISIC DEVELOFMERTS.

#. IN ORDER MAKE THIS GUIDÜCE AS ISTIL AS POSSIBLE, REQUEST UODEZESPES

ITORY EL CE SAYS IN LILICE IT IS ISED AND/ DA JIGIT ES DISOVED FOR LOCAI USE.

ALSO ADVISE IF NOI NECDED YOUR SEIINI.

"ALERBIAS CIFICER

СОВГʼДАТІВ;

OFTICERS

S-F08

REPRE DUCTION BY OTHER TILAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIATES:

AOTNCUTICATING

Cong Mat

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Won el

CoN!

C:ALC:OA

DENNIS

COUMAR

iNFO

CITE DIR

90593

C/S3/30

C/08/03

"In drest"

C/di

• Кіну за

FE: 16A.91"..

=10.

• Catered Are dul

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN IME ISSUINE. OFFICE I PROMINEO

ACTA

Copy Ne

---

