# 104-10312-10192

## Page 1

T104-10312-10192|

tie p.4

aud TAß INJ

re alsterments

I Rankin

how ald care

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1999

NOTE: Pg. 6 excerpt (pertaining to Warren Commission/Oswald)

is taken from a 7 November 1966 memorandum written by

David Murphy to the General Counsel, Subject: Yuriy Ivanovich

NOSENKO, routed through Chief, CI Staff (w/carbon copy to

DDP) •

The original document,

and its attachments (Tabs A thru N)

is located in file entitled "General Counsel -- SB Discussions

on Legal Aspects of Case."

only

A Xerox copy/of the covering memo is contained in the Pertinent

Documents (to the Study "The Monster Plot") file drawer.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

7 November 1956

HEKORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

:

General Counsel

Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

Summary

1,

The Director has requested that there be con-

ducted immediately an exnaustive examination regarding

the possibility of damaging publicity and embarrassment

to the Agency should it become public knowledge that we

have held Subject incommunicado for ovar two years.

This

memorandun seeks

an advisory opinion from the General Coun

sel on the Agancy's legal basis for its handling of Sub-

joct to date, on

the position that could bast be assuned

1f the Agency were called upon to defend its handling of

Subjact, and on legal aspects of Subject's eventual ais-

posal.

Background

2. Subject voluntarily established contact with CIA

representatives in Geneva in 1962.

He identified himself

as a staff officer of the KGB's Internal Security Direc-

torate and offered to sell counterintelligence information.

This offer was accepted and he was recruiced as an agent

in place and debriefed on counterintelligence matters dur-

ing five meetings in Geneva.

USSR.

He came

to Geneva again in January 1964 as the

security officer for the Soviet disarmament delegation.

After a number of neetings with nis CIA handlers ne de-

fected on 4 Februar, 1964 and was secretly taken to Frank

furt, Cermany, crossing the Swiss-German worder on the

night of 4/5 Fabruary with alias U.S. Army identity docu-

ments.

In Geneva and again upon arrival in Frankfurt,

Subject wrote out an asylum roguest, requesting political

asylum from the U.S. Covernment (see Tab A) .

3.

Because serious doubts about Subject's bona fides

had arisen on the basis of the infornation he hai pro-

orious doubta

vided both in 1962 and in the neetings in Geneva in 1964,

it was originally planned to do a detailed bona fides de-

briefing and assessment in Cermany before making any

---

## Page 3

13-00000

2.

decision about moving Subject to the United States.

Hidi

ever, unprecedented action by the sovist covernment in

respect to the defoction of one of its citizens forced

a change of plans.

On 9 February, unirientified Soviet

sources in Geneva

leaked the news

to the press that sub-

jact, described as an "expert attached to

the Soviet Dele

gation to the Disarmament Conference had disappeared,

and that it was presumed that ne had defected.

Because

of mounting pressure from the press, wiich included much

speculation that Subject was a high level scientist or

disarmament expert, it was decided that the State Depart-

ment would make a brief announcement acknowledging Subject's

request for asylum in the U.S. and identifying nim as a

member of the KGB.

This was done on 10 February (see las

B) .

On 11 Fabruary, the Soviet Government delivered a

note to the American imbassy in Moscow asking how Subject

left Switzerland and requesting an imnediate interview

with him and his release.

On 12 Fabruary, Soviet Anbassa-

dor to the Disarmament Conference ISARAPRIN hald a press

conference in Geneva in which he accused the Swiss Govern-

ment of failure to cooperate in locating Subject. Although

the Swiss categorically rajected these chargas, the Ameri-

can Amassador to Switzerland recommended that

Swiss

authorities be allowed to interview Subject to convince

themselves that Subject had left Switzerland of his own

free will.

1999-

4.

On 12 February, on the instructions of the Dirac

tor, Subject was brought to the United States.

Se travelled

by commercial alr, again using alias U.S. Arny identifica

tion, and was admitted to the country at New York City

(In true name) on parole under the provisions of Section

212 (d) (5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (see

Tab C).

5. On 13 February, representatives of the Swiss and

Soviet Embassies in Washington advised the State Depart-

went that they desired interviews with Subject. On 14 Febru

ary, in Moscow, Soviet Foreign Minister GROMYKO called in

Ambassador KOHLER and protested "impermissable activities"

on the part of the u.s. in Subject's case.

soviet press

spokesmen took an even harder line to Western correspond-

ents, and accused the U.s. of kidnapping Subject.

On the

afternoon of 14

Subject spoke first to Swiss Embassy and then to Soviet

Embassy representatives (see fai D). At these interviews,

which were also attended by State Department and INS

---

## Page 4

13-00000

3.

officials: Suuject confirned that he left Switzerland of

his

own free will to sook asylum in the U.S.

In addition,

Subject replied

to questions of the soviet inbassy repre-

sentative to the effect that is was renouncing his soviet

citizensnig.

On the eveniny of 14 February, the U.S.

State Department made a bries formal reply to the soviet

protest, then issued a brief statement to the press noting

that the interviews had boen held and that Subject na

confirmed his desira to remain in this country.

6.

From the time of his arrival to & April 1964,

Sucject was housed in an Agency safehouse in the Washing

ton area. During this period, regular systenatic debrief-

ing was commenced, and Subject was made available to

representatives of the FBI

for debriefing on matters affect-

ing their responsibilities.

Although allowed out for

evening and week-end excursions, Subject was at all times

accompanied by O/S personnel.

In addition, Subject took

a two-week vacation to Hawaii, again accompanied by case

officers and security guards,. Evidence continued to mount

that Subject was a KGB plant, and at the same time it be-

came obvious

that it would be impossible to proceed fur

ther to resolve the many suspicious points and contradictions

that had arisen without changing the conditions in which

Subject was being

held.

Subject was growing increasingly

uncooperative, especially when sensitive areas were touched

upon, and constantly pressed for the legalization of his

status in the U.S. and the issuance of an alien registra-

tion cara..

and other unruly personal habits were causing increasing

difficulties to the

security personnel charged with keep-

ing him under control and out of trouble at all times, ané

it was clear that it was only a matter of time before he

created a public scandal.

More important, he was in a

position to communicate with the kGs since physical control

could not be absolute.

7. Or 4 April 1954 Subject voluntarily underwent a

polygragh examination.

The results of this examination

indicated deception on a number of critical points indi-

cating that he was sent out by the kos to porform one or

more missions which also livolved his penetration of the

Agency and its operations. It was decided, therefore,

that the physical circumstances of Subject's stay in this

country would have to be drastically changed if the Agency

were to carry out is counterintelligence responsibilities

and adhere to the terms of the parole agreenent.

As a

result, Subject was moved to quarters where his movements

---

## Page 5

13-00000

could be more sasily controllec, and his outing privileges

were suspended, ponding resolution of bond fides.

Ho Has

remained in this status to the present time.

8.

It is worth noting that had we not taken tha above

action but accepted Subject at face valua; it is quite pos-

sible that we would have proceeded with a saries of opera-

tional actions on the basis of subject's information.

The

results of some of these actions could have been very cm-

barrassing to the U.S. Government politically and damaging

to U.S. national security,

For example, Subject's chief

operational proposal at tie time, one that he was most

Insistent we snould proceed. with Irmeciately, Involved the

sexual compromise of Vladimir Pavlovica SUSLOV, the most

senior Soviet official in the inited Nationg Secretariat,

kolding the position of Undersecretary in Charge of Poli-

tical and Security Council Afairs.

Bona Fides

Since April 1964, hundreds of hours have been

devoted to interrogations of Suiject (in wich he has

willingly cooperated) and a great deal of time has been

spent on exhaustive collateral investigations. We con-

clude that it has been established beyond reasonable doubt

that Subjact is a KGB agent who established contact with

CIA and subseguently detectes on ics instructions, and

that he came to the United States on a deception missior..

The implications of this mission have a grave and direct

bearing on U.s. national security.

Although our findings

are supported by the results of

two polygraph examinations

(ausecond one has just been administered), we must note

that the nature of the evidence is inadmissable in a

court of law. In any case, it is clear that Subject has

not been in a position to porform any overt act of trang

gression of U.s. espionage laws since & April 1304 when

he was placed In a restricted area and deprived of any

concaivable means of communication with tha KGB.

20.

subject does not admit that he defected on KG3

orders or that he came to the U.s. on a iGB mission.

He

has admitted, hovever, that he nade numerous lies about

his personal

history and about the details of his KGB

service to u.s. officials, both before and after arriving

in the United States. (A translation of a handwritten

statement by Subject about these lies is attached as lao E.)

Coorcination with Other Ü.S. Government Agencies

11.

USIE Members.

In accordance with the DOCI's

ruling relating to a defector who has bean a member of

---

## Page 6

13-00000

5.

a hostile intolligence servica: Subject's status

and

handling was discussed at an

executive session of USIB

and decided on an ad hoc basis,

JOSENKO defected on

1 Fobruary, and the Secretary of State: the Attorney

General, tho Special Assistant to the President on National

security Altairs, cseorge sulcy: ceneral cartold, Direc

tor of the Defense

Intelligence Agency and the rol were

all notified Immediataly. On 5 February, General Carter

reported the defection to an executive session

Of USIB

and followea this up with formal statements to USIB mei

bers on ll and 19 February (see Tab E), which stated that

Subject's bona fides had not yet bean

estaolissed.

It

was agreed that no DS number would be issued to Subject,

and that he would be handled on a special basis by this

Agency.

In fact, normal USIB interest in Subject as a

defector dropped

off drastically as it becane quickly

apparent that he had no positive intelligence interest

of value to any part of the community.

12. The President was informed of the full extent

of our suspicions about subject's bona fides by the then

Director, Mr.

McCone, on 1l February 1964.

• Mr. Patrick

coyne,

Executive Secretary of the PFIAS, was given a sini-

lar briefing by Mr. Helme on 19 February 1969.

Generals Carroll and Fitch of DIA were

also sub

sequently informed of the problems about Subject's bona

ficos (see Tab G) .

14.

the secretary of state, inbassador Thompson,

and other senior officials in the Department of State

were informed of our reservations about Subject's bona

a of our reser

fides and our fears that he might be a dispatched KGB

In discussions about the possibility of Subject's

move might have on other potential defectors (see Tab il).

informed of the buna fidas problem

The Director of Security, State Department, was

at an early date.

have worked closely with this Office since then on the

problen of evaluating the significanca of Subject's in-

formation as it affects the security interests of the

State Department.

16.

The problem of Subject's bona fides took on

particular significance and urgency in respect to the

---

## Page 7

13-00000

work of tie Warron Connission.

according to subject's

story, he

had been in the kGs line of responsibility for

Lee Harvey Oswald while Oswald was in the Soviet Union.

and after the assassination of President Konnedy, Surject

participated in an investigation of Oswald's activities

in the USSR.

In the course of his official uties, ne

alloges that he had read Oswald's dossior.

Subject was

therefore in a position to vouch for the fact that tha

KCB had never had any interest in Oswald, considered nim

to be "abnormal"

and were delighted to get rid of hin.

(For good measure, Subject threw in a story about Oswald's

being a poor shot.) As Mr. Rankin, the Chief Counsel of

the Warren Commission conmented, if Subject's story could

be accopted at face value the Commission could easily

terminate its work sooner than it had expected, Ranxin

was informed

therefore that there were aspects of Subject's

information that caused us grave concern and that we were

not able to say that his information on Oswald should be

accepted uncritically (se tai

17. Because so much of Subject's information affected

U.S.

internal security natters for which the FaI bears

primary responsibility, and because of the possibility

that Subject was a KCB plant has a direct bearing on the

validity of certain FBI operations, the IBI has been kept

fully informed

on our views about Subject's bona fides

and our progress in interrogating and investigating him

from the moment of his defection to the present time.

Thus, C/CI informed the raI liaison officer about our

reservations on Subject's bona fides as early as 5 Febru-

axy 1964: the Dircotor of the FBI and is deputy for

Internal Security, William Sullivan, have been kept com

pletely up to date ever since, and ve have coordinated

all major aspects of our hanüling of subject with them.

After a long meeting with Sullivan and other FBI repre-

sentatives to review Subject's case on 1 April 196%, the

FBI interposed no objections to our proposal to restrict

Subject's movements and commence hostile interrogation

(sea

Tab J).

Subsequently, the FbI has formally agreed

with our findings on subject, at least to the extent that

"On considering carefully the results of your interroga

tions of Juri

LOSINKO and your analysis of his statemencs

and activitles, it does appear he is not what ne purports

to be.

While this Bureau is not in a position to draw

any conclusion in this case, we do recognize it is possi-

ble that NOSENKO could be a

Soviet plant or agent provoca-

tour.**

(See Tab K.)

---

## Page 8

13-00000

7.

1R, The then Acting Attorney General Mr. Nicholas

Kazzanbach (and several nonvers of his staff) were apprised

of our reservations about subjoct on 2 April 1058 and an

opinion was sought from him both as to interpretation of

the exclusion and parole agreement, and as to how we snould

proceed in the event that it proved necessary to deport

Subject from this country. Portinent menoranda are attached

as I'ab In.

queries fron Congressmen, the Press, and tie Pubiic

19. There have been several queries from congresa

men about Subject's status and wheraabouts, and from the

press about the possibility of interviewing Subject.

general formula that was worked out to answer such raquests,

adapted as necessary to fit the specific request, runs as

follows:

*Juriy Nosenko requested asylum in the United States

in February 1964.

His reguest was granted.

Tha

information Mr. Nosenko is providing is regularly

made available to appropriate agencies of the

Governnant.

However, publicizing this information

and its source could only increase the possibility

of Soviet reprisal against it. Nosenko

and others

who may seek asylum in the Frze world."

Several specific examples are attached as Tab M.

Efforts to Keep the KGB from Learning of Our Awareness of

Subject's True

Status

20.

case, and to plan and execute appropriate countermeasures,

it was essential that we attempt to keep the KGB from

loarning of our awareness of Subject's true status. Con

sequently, detailed knowledge of the depth and scope of

suspicions

about Subject, and the implications thereot:

has been restricted to a very few

people in the Agency

and the

intelligence community. Nonetheless, as can be

seen from paragraphs 11 to 19 above, we did advise key

policy echelons and principals in the intelligence com

munity, even though this carried the inevitable risk of

leakage.

As you can see

fron Tab ki, we have not disclosed

our suspicions about Subject in our responses to press

and

congressmen.

Even in our formal correspondence to the

PrIAR, for example, the most we have

said is that Sub

ject's

bona fides has not been established" (see lab F).

---

## Page 9

13-00000

-too

Soviet Inspired Inalirtes

21.

In 1966 there have been several indications

that

the Soviets

ace has most site st

are naling a cerious effort to find out

happened to Subject and to force him to the

SUE-

The most blatant and unusual of these is the

approach by a

Soviet journalist, Yuriy KOROLEV (a known

agent), to the French magazine Paris laton with an

offer to provide photographs and naterials for

sive story of Subject and his family. According to

abandonment of her and her children. In responding to

this approach through an officiali

quoted

a statement, purporting to be from Subject himself,

to the effoct that Subject considers this approach to

represent blatant and cruel manipulation of his fanily by

the KGB and

that he will not lend himself to the scheme

by agreeing to an interview or in any other way.

Subject's Status

To recapitulate, Subject entered the United

States on 12 February 1964 on parola to the Agency under

the provisions of Section 212 (d) (5) of the Inmigration

and rationality Act.

As we understand it, parole re-

sponsibility is delogatad to the Agency by the Attorney

Goneral and the DCI on 10 February 1955, Which states:

"After parole of such aliens, the Central Intel-

ligence Agency will assume responsibility for care,

supervision and control of a kind and degice it

believes consistant with the internal security

needs of the United

States during continuance of

their parole status.

In accordance with our understanding of this agreement,

and because ve have reason to believe that Subject is a

conscious and willing agent of a hostile intelligence

service, we have seen

to it that Subject was under our

direct cogervation and control at all times from tha

moment of his arrival in the United States. from 12 rebru-

azy to 4 April 1961 it was possible

to keep Subject at a

location where he could enjoy a certain amount of movenent

and of contact with the outside world.

Since & April 1964,

for reasons explained in paragraph 6 of this memorandum,

---

## Page 10

13-00000

3.

it nas

been necessary to Lcep him incommunicado at a loca-

tion which la known to no one outrice of the agency (and

to very few within it). Authorization for Subject to

remain in this country undar the Special Agreement 2I0-

cedures has been periocically extended by the Imigration

and liaturalization Service.

The current extension is good

until 17 February 1967 (see lab N).

23.

Although his freedom of movenent has been severely

restricted, Subject has not been maltreated and he has not

made any formal complaint about his treatment.

On the

contrary, we have several written statements from him in

the past year in which he states that our handling of him

was

justified and even beneficial (see Tab E).

even be

that i

Disposal

24€

Fron the time that subject was brought to this

country we have thought about the possibility of his event

ual deportation as a contingency measure.

You will recall

talks on this in which you participated in the spring of

1964, at that time ve thought that it might a possible

to mitigate the political ano propaganda dravacks of a

forced deportation by announcing that Subject has con

fessed his true KGS role. With the passage of time. how

ever,

and in view of our much firmer conclusions about

Subject's Ieal role and mission and our clearer understand-

ing of what this implies, It is apparent that great practi-

cal problems stand in the way of his deportation to

either the USSR or a third country.

USSR: Subject has categorically stated on

numerous occasions that he will never contenplate

return to the USSE, and although ve suspect that he

might secretly welcome such a move, we would expect

him to aut out his part to the end with loud protests

that he was being shipped to his deati, etc.

When

the possibility of expulsion was discussed with De-

partment of State officials in 1964, boch tha Secre-

being expulsion mas

tary of State and Anbassador thompson expressed

their concern for the adverse effect this might have

on other potential defectors. Forcible rapatriation

of political refugees is against long established

U.s. policy, and would be certain to arouse violent

reaction fron ethnic minority groups in the United

States and the congressmen representing them.

Under

these circumstances (and we can be sure that the KGB

will ao whatever they can to promote the furor), an

---

## Page 11

13-00000

10 .

alleged "confession" by subject would come under

very close scrutiny. and night backfire very badly.

Another point that has to do considered is the

possibility that the Soviets again playing their

part, might refuse to accept Subjaci on the grouris

that he has renounced nis soviet citizenship.

The

only Iccation considered co

Ear for turnover to the

Soviets has been Berlin, which was used for the

exchange of Abel-Powers and Lonsale wynne, and for

the transfer of several Soviet defectors who re-

quested return.

Subject does not appear to fit

either category. On the other hand, if subject were

to agree to turnback, there is a real question as to

whether the Soviets

would accept him in Berlin as

as to

they did

the others in the past. Their current

practice is to handle repatriation of soviet citizens

through the Soviet Embassy in Bonn.

Finally, if

Subject were accepted by the sovlats on the basis of

LoIced repatriation, the Soviets might carry through

the charade, try Subject as a traitor, and give wide

publicity to

statements by him about his "maltreat

ment by CIA," etc.

b.

Although we believe it

Iikely

that Subject would accede to deportation to

a third country, there is certainly no country in

the free world

on which we could conceivably try to

unload Subject without first informing them of nis

true status.

Even if we considered this a desir

able objective (and we do not): it seems certain

that the Department of state would veto such a piece

of inter-governmental duplicity: on the basis of the

political risks

involved.

By the same token, it

appears very

unlikely that any country would

agree

to accept this dangerous and troublasome Soviet

agent if they knew what they were getting.

Finally,

avon if we were somehow able to induce another.coun

try to take Subject off our hands, it is obvious

that at best we

would have succeeded in exchanging a

short term, latent problem for actual and persistent

ones.

Once legalized in the West, with his movements

uncontrolled and with free communication with his

KGB superiors, Subject would nave tremendous opportuni

ties for creating adverse publicity to the Agency

and creating other serious trouble without ever con-

travening the laws of the country in which he re

sided..

We cannot even exclude the possibility that

---

## Page 12

13-00000

11.

Subject might be able to convince a liaison security

or intolligence service that he is gozuine: in such

a case, the possibilities of trouble and enbarrass-

ment are almost limitless.

25.

Regardlass of where Subject is reported to,

several factors must be considered.

Would it ba necessary

to serve subject with a formal warrant of deportation?

If so, would he have the right to demand and receive coun

3e17

Alternative Course of Action

26. Given sufficient time we believe that we could

persuade Subject to confess.

Although there have been

certain recent signs of erosion in his acility to stick

to his story, and perhaps even in his will to resist, we

cannot estimate how long a period of time might be re

quired,

but we do not belleve that he is prepared to hold

out forever.

Once. Subject confessed, we estimate that we

would require approximately a year in which to debrief

him, because it would be primarily from minute examination

of the details of how and when he was trained and briefed

by the KGB that we would expect to obtain a better reacing

on the true nature and extent of KGB penetration of U.S.

intelligence agencies and activitiss.

During

that period

we would still wish to maintain the present circumstances

of handling subject, and would continue to respond to out

side inquiries to the effect that subject fears for his

life, doesn't

wish to be interviewed, etc.

Upon conclu

sion of this debriefing period--and depending on our esti

mate of the sincerity and completeness of subject's

confession--ve would then be prepared to provide Subject

a new identity and an opportunity to settle in the U.s.

or elsewhere.

27.

Finally as can be seen fron the summary in para-

graphs 10-17 above, and from the materiol attached in

the tabs,

we have coordinated evary significant aspect

of Subject's handling with the other U.S. Government ager-

cies who have a direct stake in one or another aspect

of Subjoct's case. Specifically, we would not contemplate

proceeding with any specific plan to dispose of subject

without coordinating this with the Department of State,

the Department of Justice and the FBI.

28.

We would like the General Counsel's comments

with particular respect to any gaps he may detect in any

aspects

of the Agency's legal position on Subject's case,

---

## Page 13

13-00000

12.

suggestions for improving this position, and, specifically,

his views on whethet the authority for

parole granted to

the Diractor in 1955 nas been validated or updated by

succeeding Administrations or by legislation.

He suggest

that the General Counsel's review specifically include

identification of possible legal actions which the wife

or anyone else could initiate in foderal or state courts,

probable legal and publicity consequences of any such action,

and detormination of legal defenses and ways of handling.

publicity.

In reviewing this case and preparing an opinion

it is requested that the case not be discussed with anyone

outside the Agency.

Is Darid E. Murphy

David E. Murphy

Chief, S3 Division

Attachments

ras

A thru N

LEP CORET

LYES GULY

---

