104-10061-10214)

ae JA 78

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/DO/O .
FROM : oH. Clark Schor

Chief, Plans and Review Group

Central Cover Staff
SUBJECT : . House Select Committee on Assassinations

(IISCA) Request

REFERENCES : A. Memo for SA/NO/O fr C/CCS/PRG, dtd

25 Jan 78, Same Subject

B, Memo for SA/DO7O fr OLC (OLC 78-3070/1),
dtd 12 Jan 78, Same Subject

C. Letter for OLC fr Chief Counsel/iirector
of HSCA, dtd 6 Jan 78

1. This memorandum supplements. Reference A and provides
the additional information per paragraph 6. therein, in re-
sponse to the request in Reference 8.

2. CCS files contain information on individuals and
entities cited in certain numbered items of Reference C as
follows: ~ -

a. Item 5 ~ George DeMohrenschildt -- five Jocu-
ments comprising four contact reports with a comnuer-
~-clal asset-who was in touch with Subject regarding. a
business activity in laiti, and one memorandum dc-
tailing the results of a trace request on Subject.
The dates of the documents range from 25 April to
21 Nay 1963.

b. Item 9 - Leo Cherne.-- 21 documents (six-1954:
one-195S;, two-1957; two-1958; one-1960; four-1962; and
pone each-1965, 1967, 1968, 1976, 1977)]

i

__[ Additionally, CCS maintains
“a-¥1Ie-on the Research Institute of America, of which
Leo Cherne was Executive Director, comprising ap:
mately 100 documents covering the period 1949 to 1964;
Mr. Cherne's name appears throughout this ‘file.

B2 TMT
# SbIO CL BY:


14-00000

a

c. Item 17 - William Harvey -- Approximately 50
documents, virtually all of which concern the estab-
lishment, maintenance, and use of cover for Subject
during his career with the Agency as a Staff Employee
from 1947 to 1967.

d, Item 27

(1) International Rescue Committee --
12 documents (1962 to 1976) addressing Agency
non-use of IRC, and FOIA requests.

(2) Alexander Rorke -- No record in

e. Item 26

(1) Richard Helms -- Approximately 25
documents (1956 to 1974) concerned primarily
with TDY travel orders, cover documentation,
and clearance verifications.

(2) James Angleton -- Approximately 25
documents (1950 to 1975) concerned primarily
with TDY travel orders, cover documentation,
and retirement processing for Subject who
was a Staff Employee of the Agency from 1947
to 1974,

(3) Raymond Rocca -- Approximately 25
documents (1964 to 1975) concerned primarily
with cover matters pertaining to Subject who
was a Staff Employee. :

f.. Item 30 - No record in CCS of correspondence
or other ‘commiiications on the matters identified in-
volving Messrs. Helms, Angleton, and Rocca.

g... Item 36

: (1) Southern Research Corporation --
No record in CCS.';

(2). Wackenhut Corporation -- 100 to 150
documents covering the period 1963 to 1977
and concerning primarily Gontacts wi
Wackonhurt officials.

om met bPHedcaeret a

H. Clark Schor


14-00000

Orig &

HCS/vir,

Bee REE ee eee oe

ribution:

- Adse

DDO/TSS/TP/EIS y
10-41) (HSCA)

CS-2829 (DeMohrenschildt)
CS-1337 (Research Institute of America)
18382 (Cherne, mentioned), ;

R.C. 2395 (Harvey) -.:

MO-296. (International Rescue Committee).
R.C. 14876 (Helms)

> R.C. 801 -(Angleton)

R.C. 12860 (Rocca) ‘
CS-2793 (Wackenhut)
CCS/PRG chrono via board

