40768-10048

A 1804
‘ SECRET ' ne
Crna

PROJECT ACTION

LIBNVOY

3p0001 | fdqs.
_CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIO®

ENE Tyres Nae hse pranptigey
ere Gee ce ea ae ‘i x Vie
IC/WH/3/Mexico iB, By _Reich hardt
26 _{s.u. wnitten,
ea et 23 is t_Carter Cen G Cote wd.) :

W. Brooks DLL. oa

IWH/SS

| on

meree | 2
CLWH/POA _. Hinasiennsuanajsinianisuosnist neuen hn oo)

c/widors__ LWALLiam Hood W. Weed
qi te tere Re el eee

7 rae

“ Feb 64— Tar gst

OS gig cease SECRET emery

Sire


Shy

PROJECT:

ACTION

PURPOSE:

BACK-
GROUND

FROJECT DSIEFING

TENVOY
AIDE approval of renewal
Froject provides for a &

onsoredJtelephone tap un
relationshipgwhich provide

during th? past year,
move the intercept ¢ reason and replace

the older equipment. ‘This move has teen held in abeyance
uncil np be hetd with Bae
) Heantine, ECCUPLey =
a 19

Intercept center has ror 1 February 1
y 1964, gore disseminated. WH/3
evaluates the product as valuable and covering a wide
or topics. The canter ¢ lines all of which
or interest, to CLA an one-hal? are

for UiAg) & es inclade Comgunist and
ettist Leaders, (sho los i Security Ser fe.) Soviet,
Cuban, Czech, and Yuges nb: hoftetaled
LiatsorJre lationship 70 project contributed

zy

(34

zy

2
to the iiriendly attitude oF fine

24 rc
338 for #Y 65. No additional cunds are requested for
s4as there are ds remaining from the

approval to cover 0,530 required under this
al request. Total project pertod: $47,063
Salaries $25,454
Xmas bonus 2,320
Operaticnal expenses 12,594
QP vehicle 1,200
Savenouse 2,500

SEGRET



PREVIOUS
APPROVALS:

STAFF
COMMENTS :

FI

“seen

1 Feb §3 ~ 31 Jan 64 $70,068
1 Feb 62 - 31 Jan 63 43,240
1 Feb 61 - 31 Jan 62 59,690
1 Feb 60 - 31 Jan 61 53,840
1 Feb 59 - 31 Jan-60 163,537

and CI Staffs concur in renewal.

FI STAFF: ‘The project continues to be highly pro-
ductive of positive intelligence, as well as opera-
tional leads and CI/CE information. FI notes that
operational leads have been pursued successfully
and contrituted to recruitments in the(cuban and 24
Yugos lavpenbasates.

CI STAFF: Axrees with the Station's action in
delaying the planned move of the intercept center.

SEGRET


”

SECRET

5 March 1964

si Pglouaay sree neieeat

and audio operation)

(Yom-official 11.

isseninations

i. ba files contain 295 nositive inform:

provided Project LIVOL during the 12 nonthg ~
1 January 15: mary 1964 (FI/INEts February 1963 assessment of

the product year 1962). 177 Cs

and Ls Ws ng information of uni authenticity

on various LIS valuable oe

3 various

report is ncerning Con

ory) ara iis prow

tuba National Liberation
eval Lazaro

s of Chinese
wel via Hexico
other

vities unl propag:

also reper

= ures of Latin J

countyies;, yecononic transactiong betwee
aN

anone[peasStt:, labor arid

onf Nexico

Guta; discon:
alofa §

ifLeant volune o:
Jevate aud, if se:
Although sone *
with the inner cirel.
ers LI.

pl



hy

MEMORANDUM FOR:

‘HROUGH:

SUBTECT:

on

13 MA; 1964

Assistant Deputy Director for P uns
DDE/ eG

Froject LIEWOY Senewal

J. We BT Stare recommends renewal off Pro,jech LTEEYOY.

2. Tids

that

‘ogee
iuiekiigene, as webb a operas
: araitonal, Jeads
contivuted to red

itinues to be “ht

nly prodwet,

of vositive

thw
hie been
ruttuents tithe

thief
Foretn Ttedligence

orc,
7 kdl

