# 104-10297-10292

## Page 1

104-0297-10292

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BURNAU OF INVESTICATION

In koply, Almse Refer to

file sa

105-33J95

Date:

To:

WASHINGTON :S D.C.

BY LIAISOY

X11A rom:

Subject:

May 12, 1961

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

John Elgar lioover, Director

CUBAN S TUATION

INTERNAL SECURITY - CURA

A reporter for the "New York Journal-Ancrican,"

on May 8, 1951, fürnished the following

infomation:

The reporter stated he had recently been in

Miami

Florida

covering, the Cuban invasion and had spoken to

many Cuban exiles and personal sources.

As a result

cane

to the conclusion that the invasion had icen badly

andled by the Central Intelligence Agency (ClA) from ever

aspect.

le stated that some of the exiles were ot

the uninion

that the invasion was doomed

to failure by design on the

part of CLA and they are holding CIA responsible.

The reporter stated he was able to ascertain from

his sources the names of the CLI

for the invasion.

David dorales, one

is it is chose me al her rory

Avignon and a

lio had been assigned as arramache

in the Vominican Republic.

at the United States imbas heard that one Frank Berder of

In

additior,

he stated he had

CIA WIS

also among those

responsible.

The above-mentioned reporter identified to of his

sources of the foregoing infomation as former Col rel

"ariano

laget and linrigue Paragon,

who were fornerly connected with the

bureau for the Repression

of connunist Activities

(BKIC) in

Cuba.

BRAC waS a:

active organization in Cuba during te

liatista reglue.

Keportedlj

the reporter checker the above

mentioned

In enpinyces with laget win apparently maintained a

file on the subjecte

the tenurter ha

receiveget alleredly verified the infuriation

concering the part played by these

inlividuals in tie invasion.

""

19-134-25,

---

## Page 2

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

The reporter stated he had discussed the role of

CIA in the invasion with Senator

indicated that senator sana or ourse Seaters elate

subcommittee

in the near

¿caling with the involvement of ClA in tie invasion.

This is for your inforcation.

---

