# 104-10107-10008

## Page 1

104-10107-10008

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

11 January 1977

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, SE Division

ATTENTION

Division Security Officer

FROM

SE/X/LA

1 "

SUBJECT

: Appearance As Witness In Behalf of the

United States Government

REFERENCE: USA V. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al. (76-371-CR-CA)

1. During the period of my employment as a Special Agent at the

Drug Entorcement unitste

ar 127?),l conducted an

interview of Gerald Patrick Hemming (DPOB. 1 March 1937, at Los Angeles,

California) on 23 May 1975 at DEA Headquarters. in Washington, D.C:

My report concerning that interview has become part of the case file

in USA v. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al., Case Number 76-371-CR-CA,

Southern District of Florida, Miami, Florida.

2. Upon my entrance on duty in SE Division on 5 January 1977,

I orally informed the Division Security Officer, Billy Hix, about

the information in paragraph 1 above. Mr. Hix asked me to

submit

the information in writing as soon as I was settled in the Division.

On 7 January 1977, however Special Agent Robert Fredericks

telephonically contacted

the United States Attornery, Southern District of Florida, had

requested that I appear at the U.S. Courthouse, Miami, Florida on

10 January 1977 to confer with the Assistant United States Attorney,

Karen L. Atkinson, regarding my appearance as a witness in behalf of the

U.S. Government in the trial of Gerald P. Henming.

3.

During the afternoon of 7 January 1977 I conferred with Mr. Hix

who advised me to contact the Office of the General Counsel.

I talked

to Mr. Edmund Cohen who advised me to get in touch with the Office of

Security, External Activities Branch (OS/EAB). I completed an

Outside Activity Approval Request (Form 879), obtained the concurrence

of DC/SE, Mr. John Stein, and submitted the Form 879 to OS/EAB.

OS/EAB sent me to Central Cover Staff (Mr. Blandford) and then to the

Office of the General Counsel. After discussions with Mr. Cohen, I called

---

## Page 2

S/A Fredericks in Miami at Mr. Cohen's suggestion. S/A Fredericks was

not available.

Mr. Cohen then advised me to return to my office and

He

further advised me that being in an overt cover status I should state,

if asked under oath, that I am currently a CIA employee.

4. On 10 January 1977 I traveled to Miami where I met and

conferred with AUSA Karen Atkinson and DEA S/A Robert Fredericks.

They informed me that Gerald P. Herming's case had been severed and

nanted me as a rebuttal witness if Gerald P. Hemming presented the

lefense that he had been working at the direction of DEA. She saic

She also said that she felt that any attempt to question me concerning

illy current place of employment was irrelevent and she would object to

any such line of questioning.

She said she would only ask me where

I was employed at the time I interviewed Herming. I returned to

Washington D.C.

he suite dugo:

Distribution:

CCS

- OS

1

- OGC

---

## Page 3

SECRET

16 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Edmund Cohen

Assistant General Counsel

U.S.

v. Hemming

ary 2 tovember 1977 the undersigned accompanied by Messrs. ( 03

Gary Mattocks and Robert Barteaux, travelled to Miami to confer with

Judge Hoeveler, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas M. Shexouse, Un District

Court, Southern District of Florida, about subject case. Messrs.]

Mattocks had dealt with Mr. Hemming while they were employed by the Drug

Enforcement Administration and Mr. Sherouse wanted them available as rebuttal

witnesses. Mr. Barteaux also was sought as a possible rebuttal witness to describe

the Agency's relationship with Mr. Hemming in the event that Hemming raised a

CIA defense.

03=

2. On 23 November Mr.

Mr.. Barteaux and the undersigned met in

chambers with Judge Hoeveler, Mr. Sherouse, Mr. Roger Howard, law clerk to

Judge Hoeveler, and Mr. Ted Sakowitz, Public Defender for the Southern District

of Florida. Mr. Sherouse decided that Mr. Mattocks would not be required to

testify and he did not attend the meeting. The Judge initially expressed some reluc-

tance to have an ex parte conference because Mr. Hemming had assumed primary

responsibility for his own defense with only limited assistance from the Public

Defender. The Judge insisted that a transcript of the meeting be made but he

promised that the transcript would be sealed and, in fact, would not be transcribed.

3. The undersigned indicated that the Agency had no interest in the outcome

of the case and interposed no objection to the introduction of any relevant information.

Our sole concern was to protect Mr E

and his relationship with CIA both before

and after his DEA employment. The Judge was informed that Me?

Osole con-

nection with Herming was on 23 May 1975 and that he had no contact with Hemming

during any period of Agency employment. The national security consequences of

exposure of Mr.

as well as the career consequences were outlined. In addition,

the Judge was informed that Mr. Barteaux was prepared to testify as an overt Agency

employee about any relationship between Hemming and CIA.

SECRET

SIMPDET CL BYQ35714

---

## Page 4

04

4. Judge Hoeveler asked Mr. Sakowitz to cross-examine Mr.

to

determine whether he had any information which might be relevant to Hemming's

defense. Mr. Sakowitz stated that although he was aware that Mr. Hemming wished

to call Mr.

Tas a witness, he was not fully informed of all aspects of the case

and, therefore, reluctant to question Mr.

PiThereupon, Judge Hoeveler,

swore in Mr

and proceeded to ask him a series of questions to determine

whether Mr

interaction with Mr. Hemming had been in any way connected

with his CIA employment. At the conclusion of this examination the Judge gave

Mr. Sakowitz a second opportunity to question Mr:

and when Mr. Sakowitz

again declined, he stated that in light of the national security consequences which

had been brought to his attention he was not inclined to permit questions relating

CIA employment.

5. At the conclusion of the conference in chambers, but before the jurv was

admitted into the courtroom, Mr. Sherouse informed Mr. Hemming that Mr.

was available as a witness.

When the trial proceeded Mr. Hemming concluded

his defense without calling Mi

Mr. Sherouse, however, did call Mr.

as a rebuttal witness, On cross-examination Mr. Hemming asked Mr

whether he was with CIA. Mr. Sherouse promptly objected to the question, the

Judge sustained the objection and Mr. Hemming went on to the next question. The

trial concluded soon afterwards without Mr. Barteaux being called as a witness.

It was subsequently learned that Mr. Hemming was found guilty as charged.

Stud She

Edmund Cohen

EC: jz

Distribution:

riginal - BISIATON-CRIMINAL, Hemming Gerald P.

1 - Chrono

SERIES

---

## Page 5

14-00000

TO

THRU:

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITTES BRANCH

DATE

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATIN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

(Staff, division or office head and security officer, where assigned)

NAME AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print or

COMPONENT

ROOM NO. AND BLDG.

PHONE

FROM:

10/3

5929

: ÷3

FULL DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY

APPROVAL IS REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS

CONCERNED. DATES. LOCALE. ETC. (Refer to

HR 10-7 before completing)

03

a 7 January 197l caterer.

1aee are.

*Jordon tre 305-110:910,

nosy Jo tamery in cider to

rald Fitrick h

Dare can site twit

rised no to eurod

110

... cine

z.

REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILI MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS

MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

I Need E enplouse dro. don don tert teitd 02010 10 transferrito to Die The

SIGNATURE OF REOUESTING EMPLOVEE

3. COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF. DIVISION

OR

OFFICe HEAD

CONCUR:

DATE

SIGNATURE OF OPERATING OFFICIAL

FOR COMPIETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

DATE:

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED, DENIED)

FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

A/N (FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

=

---

## Page 6

916:

101.3

Bob Barteaux ti be

ready to testify-

If Procery partie

imFR on Q Doe

Spoke up Tom Sherouse 305 350 5449

Tural 25 Get.

iked if Thorouse stuld is scheduled to

250c - bus calendu call eet.p

20 oct this Cal Call Ill call be on 21 od

I see where sland

10/25 5pohe W/Sherme

_Demy

182 Tile Calats

how on cault!

Lemmy will be owed lawyers

11l15 rate up Sheenae

sch for l6 NN a read us

Bat it a lit he a need a More fu we er.

Maddos, Barteary reven Shed

statent, ck on n

awr/120

11/1T - Called M-fo am

---

## Page 7

-

03

9318

17A9

Kackville Md 20850

gingel o coves

bi, My 74 - 1 Jam 77 DEA

28. 8Jan 17 - 1o amen, State Sven

2. only entre if themes -

23 May 15

3. Her it to em

Tom -

Y Now So- toyet

resentent

Why it 2 sor KEM wot in tow hame

tom 5o- respred - law enficent

I cit cant:-

us salad, reunt

31120

---

## Page 8

(Gerald P. Hemming)

US vs Hemming Cise No 16-11 - Cr- CA

P.O: Blde + CtHose 300 NE. First Ave

5. D of Fla.

Judge Hoeveler

- Miaini Flonida

Mezzanine Floor 350 - 4136

Thomas M. Sherouse Ast US Attoney

(305) 350 5449 ~ 447)

See Mary Imes

300 Arnsley Bldg.

hm: 856 22PS

---

## Page 9

.18:19

521 Florida Afe ajt 10t

Herndon Va. 22000

Gary Maddox

4378958

l,enpl

CIA - 69- 73

- DEEp AugD3 :

39- 13= Anyeme Utnhen

Voxtam

_2'6F 77 (cmmaner

1.cs 27 FebT7 - gen S-buty then.

State Cven

nor

Luban por casta jogle surastem

2. Sro later the Dee 76 culad ul Maldo,

nove suce tk ufct -

no conbedd befoe

DEA

never pecondl cnted oly Nreed DEt witd

3. ud ithermng y mn Miane

net mdea snen, il puchore l) navetres

ym Miant and, Laey, anget ie finer

9) witwad riche

ihientti gutd 1) prent re Criemsenuela

4 ит - - бира ди -

---

## Page 10

Tan'S Oct 25 ental

- Jan 6z subatt applie to eel -

2) Reads de at Not he ever englage in ay cagady on

an as an

i ap so eat so sta 1960

3. IndA 60 3 eung in sing 1161, 1 Bm 1967, 3 m 1978

A day aft 234,18

on the Be Kenny can fund to tate up

what he tip wight be of take i unf tote

Ungs → i

3're the Doe

pegle to .

Wt be able hel

---

## Page 11

14-00000

7=9.

Derry was fand guild

---

