id 1432-0084

pune MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD oF
ic el January 1964

FILE NUMBER

suBsECT

OSWALD, Harvey Lee 351 164

The material obtained from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
: BE}

pertaining to Lee Harvey OSWALD's spouse Marina was provided to Mr.

in the office of Mr. Birch O'Neil, CI Staff, on 27 November 1963 with the

understanding that it would be returned to the Office of Security when CI

Staff is finished with it.

EE 2
On 23 January 1964, MrJ ladvised that. they are still using the

material; however, they intend to return it to the Office of Security when

they have finished their interest.

ALL material numbered 75 149 - 625, in the mame of Marina N. OSWALD,

has been transferred to the file of Lee Harvey OSWALD, #351 164, with the

exception of the material in the possession of the CI Staff, which, when

returned, will be placed in #351 164 also.

®ocument_Number {2.¢9- 4G 4 2

for FOIA Review on: FEB 1977

OFFICE AND TITLE

sD/1

FORM

ate 1954

P,


(CATEGORY OF REPORT)

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

ooc - . : WASHINGTON

CASE NO.
TS 1g 625 ;
OSWAID, Marina Nikolevna
Prusakova 17 December 1963

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

JOFFICE OF ORIGIN

Washington Field Office

BOLLING, Chester T.
CHARACTER OF CASE aan

—

(, ind
APPROVEO: a |
on —

Fin SPECIAL AGENT 18 4 DEY

GEORGE P. LOKER, JR.

DISTRIBUTION:

wHDQS. - orig.
mes. -1
WrO - 1

646 use rrevious cotttons,

(FIELO OFFICE)


#75 19 625 : 1T December 1963

’

GENERAL:

At New Orleans, Louisiana:

On 26 Ne 1963, Inmigration and Naturalization
file number A125 306 45, in the name of Marina N. GSWALD, was
made available for review by C. W. JOHNSON, District Director, a
Room 8023, New Federal Building, 701 Loyola Aveme.

Copies of all pertinent documents contained in the _

file were obtained on an expedite basis, numbered in sequence
1 through 44, and previously forwarded.

CTB/amg


wBQS. - 1

TS 149 625
OSWAID, Marina Nikot+vns
bbaeaemitty 17 Decenber 1963
26 Novenber 1963
Washington Field Office

BOLLING, Chester T.

I sp/. iW Waeed

HDQS. - orig.

WoO -1



Bae eereenerereeeeeereteepeneng=narearetaoereenarenahe

£75 149 625 17 December 1963

a

GENERAL? a

At New Orleans, Louisiana:

On 26 1963, Ismigration and Naturalization
file mmber A125 45, in the name of Marina N. OSWALD, was
made available for review by C. W. JOHNSON, District Director,
Room 8023, New Federal Building, 701 Loyola Aveme.

Copies of all pertinent documents contained in the
file were obtained on an expedite basis, mmbered in sequence—
1 through 44, and previously forwarded.

CTB/ang



2 22. THUS 2 Dk
. eel a : -

S27 2557

7h. mae _"

7o3 ao ra

boots
sue

“tial ZEISS

te
ws 4 je Lotion


IY 28 03 tN
epi ; — faurck oat |

_—_—
ot, Cor

(9) fel 13 ie


SITUS pa cab-t oO Wot’

Ma Rie Wiko Laei/al —
FU SAK OV & Ka lRusnkove
FL AF ZGOOVET =~

1 Wear Qrelearia — hig,

Oompa | Re UDI ~- uP
“£ a ios

Geb dere | [Sasa he tae

P2AK.


VN.C. [3dyne 1962
ve MAAS DO a
Eee

no a oy

‘cl Shte Der .

wee, ei ede daa A Uypoany mad

i th ATE

1S De 16/ od CUS Marna? J ih eland Howe a.
