# 104-10102-10047

## Page 1

104-10102-10047

TO

SENDER WILL CH

UNCLASSIFIED

IFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM:

Con!

IDENTIAL

SECRE

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

Mr.

Sturbitts

3C34A

INITIALS

INSPECTOR GENERAL

76 2:344

5

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE.

Returned herewith is the thermofax file

copy of the 27 November 1963 cable (IN.

69266) in the AMLASH operation, provided

me to carry to the meeting of li June 1976

with Senators Hart and Schweiker.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER:

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS

AND PHONE NO.

SDBreckinridge/2E24/5527

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

Use previous editiens

16, June 7

SECRET

12953

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET.

placein AMLASH

ROUTING

201

• DIRECTOR

PARIS

AMLASHA

V.

DOP, ADOP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SAS 50 VR

13

EOR

ONE C. RESENSHWEES: 271323Z

DER

DESENSITIZEO PART 1664

TZ NOw 63 IN 6 9266

DAFOR REYYAY PORUMEN CUNSIERRA

SIERRA HIGHLISHTS PERIOD 18 OCT TURIS 18 NOV 63

1. 31 OCTO CUNSNAFIVIS STATES FOLOR DIAZ PARRADO TO BE PROMOTED

O VINISTER RAUK AND RETIRED AT SAME TIME.

SHE TO RECEIVE RETIPEMENT

PÀY ABROAD SI.E•

IN FRANCE, PUSNATVIE VERY BITTER ASCUT JUIS

MINUSUAL ACTION.

2.-

29. OCT TARGETS VISITED BY JAO SANTIA30.

TrIeSE COMPLAINS

SEITTERLY THAT GRAVATSES TRYING TO FIRE MIY. STATAdIE WRITINS LETTER

TO IMPORTANT OFFICIALS IN CUBA "EXPOSING SITUATION IN EMBASSY.

SANTIAGO STATES EMBASSY RECEIVED LETTER FROM ONE AR TOUZET ECOMMENT!

OF TOLIZET LABORATORIES, PARIS, WHO TAKING COURT ACTION FREEZE EMBASSY

HURRICANE FLORA RELIEF BANK ACCOINT. ACTION BASED ON

EXPROPRIATED. TONZET PROPERTY IN CUBA.

SANTiAGO STATES HE WILL

¡VITIORAG RELIER FIND FROM BANK ON SOPCT. I ME CANO LINENAFUALE

E MENTIONG EMBASSY MAY MAVE TO MOVE. & COMMENT: THIS SIBUECT HAS PREN•

VET. [LPAISON HAS REEN QUERIED. PUGNATU/IZ STATES MANTO SRACIA VULNTCI

VAS RECALLED TO CURA AND STATES ME PRIVKS HEAVILY.

the core.n

3а OCT. "CUNSNAPUI? COMPLAINS BITTERLY ASONT OFFICIAL

RpT

3

soN:

SECRET

ICTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

Copy No

1m 12953

---

## Page 3

CTASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN. ONE PAGE 2

VITOOG TO MAG TO MOU THEY MAGATE CTVOLUTIROO STATEO THE MICE

ME MAN CONCEALED TAPE RECORDER TO RECORD THESE CONVERSATIONS.

SHE

INCLINES PAPITO SERGERS SAS TRANSCRIBED AND POLANCO

CUREL AS TY"THIS SHOP.

NOV. USLEEDO LAS VISITS. [TELEPIONS CALL PRONEDITH SOREL

IN WHICH SOREL STATES "FRANQUE IS LEAVING ON THE I2TH*

WAll

"CONFIRYS THIS, STATING FRANGUI VROTE TO LAY SAYINS HE COMING PARI,

CODE THEY PRASUS AND HAVA MENTION OF TETE CASTSO AND TEAR Cr.51150

WILL TRY TUAK WITH LAM AND UNSNAFU/S? COMENT: VIA LINRUMBLE/2, PAPI

hir!

SATUSO ATTEMPT TALK SIT AT LAM AND NEAR 12).

Having

LAN DISCUSSED POSSIBLE TRIP TO SPAL" OUT STATES HS VOILD ONLY CO

MIN" DIPLOIATIC PASSPORT FOR FEAR DE APTEST.

7S::

"NOV. UNSNAFINS? GIVES 4IUA ADDRESS OF NOLLEVIELTA:

CALLE 22100 3731, 337Y 110 "IRAT 3 35916. C.

STATES ANY DAY NON WE WILL BE MUEN SORRAYS TO MOVE OUT OF; TUE

02

GO 12 NOV. CUSHAN!! 12 SOCTS TO JUAN MARINELLO APPOINTMENT WITH

ANSER, FRUSTRATION, AND TEARS. (COMMENTS APFARENTLY FEELS BETRAYED

BUT NO FIRM INDICATION WHAT COURSE OF ACTION SHE WILL TAKE.)

TO 1S NOU. MORE TALX ABOUT MARINELLO. CUESNAFULL STATES JIG

FEELS DESPERATE. AND WILL ATTEND TO YER PRIVATE AFFAIRS.

INS'AFU/LE STATES SHE MAY BRING EVIDENCE OF ENHASSY CHAOS AND

CORPIPTION MORE FOR SACKEEPING AND GNAFU/IR ENCOMRACES YER TO DO 30.

SEING

ACCEPTED BY FRENCH IN VISH MIS CONNIEST AGITATOR PAST. STATES

.

SECRET

10;

---

## Page 4

+ FU MESSAGE

IN...

3

A MAÜ DEEN FRENCH 4030510007 511

APPART TOR MIS NOLATION. LUNSWAFU/S COMMENTS THAT FIDEL CASTRO 1S

WINKS PERSONNEL CHANES NOU SO THAT WIEN KHRUSHCHEV VISITS CIBA

METT BELL JUPLY HIS TAChT ACKNOWLEDGE ENT OF

THESE CHANGES.

LUNSNAFIN 12 MENTIONS THAT FIDEL IS AFRAID OF "ED

ỞL" TECORDINSS OF CONVERSATIONE WHICH TOOK PLACE IN 1959

MAICH UNSNAFUIZ HAS IN HER POSSESSION. (COMMENTS: NO FURTHER

CLATIFICATION. AND MAY POSSIBLY BE TYRICAL [UNSAFU/12 BOASTING).

COTIRTUE? COMENT ABOUT MARINELLO: AND LUNSNAFIV12 STATES SHE MAY

HAVE TO VACATE APARTMENT. STATES "E "ILL FIND

SUMETHING JUT I DONT BELIEVE HE WILI BE 1535 FOR "ANY MORE

MONTHS"•

3. COMMENT. SCATTERED COMMENTS THRUSY OUT LATE? TRANSCRIPTITO

TAILY PEOPLE SEEM TO BE SAIVENS STRENGTY, LSNAF VIZ SEEMS FESL THAT

MARINELLO ANDICORONA SEING SENT ABROAD TO SET DID OF THEM FOR A WHILE.

SECRET KÄRON

SECREV!

---

