# 104-10186-10259

## Page 1

104-10186-10259

MNEORMATTON REPORT

INFORMATION RERORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Tala motortal contaras tntornein almine lhe Malmal Darem of tho United baron mialo the moonine al lhe taponne cama Tie

IN, 0BO. DeA 199 nod Tol 8ão intoumanos de rornatin dt whira se ant mansor to dn Manusorte Dera la pratibitod or lam.

COUNTRY

SUMECT

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SOURCE

-5

3

Cuba

Julio DAMASO Vasquez

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CI-316/00715-64

8 September 1964

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orily

Do Not Reproduco

1964

Washington, D.C.

September 1964

FIELO REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DIRIMITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTEMI IS TENTATIVE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serles containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first checking

with this Agency.

An individual whose true name is not known but uses the name of

Julio DAMASO Vasquez, pseudonym "'Serglo," Is il Cuban Intelligence

staffer. He has been trained for an assignment to Central America in

parachuting,

secret writing codes, ciphers, and radlo, but who until

very recently, was still in Cuba, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

Headquarters Comments

1. The following traces are possibly identical with the Julio DAMASO

Vasquez above.

2. In a report dated 28 April 1959, there was included a list of 87 names

provided by the Guardia Nacional of persons aboard the fishing

STATE

• DIA

T ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Noter Field diertbution Indicated by " s".)

I NAVY

TAIR

INSA

-CINCSO A

OCR

LEBI 2

I8.NS

INFORMATION

EREPORT

INFORMATLON REPORT

WVH/SA/EQB1

NE: FR11

MESA NORT

VE NADRI

WH/SA. CI H

CILIA

CH R&1

RID/AN

WH/NAVELI

TOTALE

WH/SA 7(1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

PORY NO. 8

LX- 1655

CSC1-316/

C

201-858695 and 10-5-1

3/BR

---

## Page 2

#0+8-84414810109

NO FORN DISSEM

-2-

ressel, Masari, when it landed near Mandingo, Playa Colorado, Sin Blas

Territory,

Panama, on 25 April 1959.

The Guardia Nacional did not

reveal their source, however, newspaper accounts indicated that the

Guardia found a list of the 87 names on the reverse side of a United States

Naval chart aboard the Mayari. Included on the list was one Julio NUSCARO

Visquez, possibly Identical with Julio DAMASO Vasquez.

A fairly reliable source, in a report dated 15 May 1959, stated that

the initial questioning of the Cuban jouths who were

captured at Portobello during the invasion of Panama. He identified one of

the jouths as Julio Damaso VASQUEZ, born about 1936. He was a medical

student who had one year of study left before he could get his degree. He

juined the Sierra Morena rebel forces and was made an army doctor and given

the rank of captain.

Julia banally eliable owes on in por dated 23-2 at 1d o, esaid that

friend in Panama a position with Radio Rebelde.

5. In a report dated 2 June 1962, an untested source reported that

Julio DAMASO was the administration chief at the Moa Bay Nickel and

Cobalt Plant and a Communist. He said that DAMASO participated

In the Cuban attempt to invade Panama. Source described DAMASO as having

been born about 1935, being about five feet nine inches tall, having

a medium build and white.

6. An untested source, in a report dated 22 December 1963, said that

Jullo DAMASO Vasquez was a lieutenant in the Departamento de Seguridad

del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE) detailed to Minas de Moa,

Baracoa, Oriente Province, Cuba. DAMASO was a close friend of Ramon

VAZQUEL Montenegro, a known Cuban Intelligence Service officer.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

winged

---

