# 104-10435-10032

## Page 1

1104-10435-10032

1 4 AUG 1967

SUBJECT

• Garrison Invoctigation of

Konnedy Assaucination:

Donald ?. (oIT-) NORTON

Io. On 6 deguat 1967 we vera triormed that the Vancouves

(Dinda) Fun was nuing on soon rould run da lacorvion diti osa

Donald F, (uI 1. ) NORIO:, 35 yesto old, who has made the

folloting claire.

That he mao a CIA mao pad tt ta 1953 12

delvared $159, 000 t Dov LEAR 10r fraasfer

to Cuis (Comment: David li, FEASIS, nos ¿cad,

mas a pilot living in dier Orlenzo. Diatrict litoracy

Jarace C. Grrrison hos claimod tut LiRAS sas

and of a small group of conspirazore nico taster

minded tie aGsassination oi Licsident Renacdy.

Alloratiose that CIA emoloved FEbRI have speared

la prink. Thorough checks have shown tist thoro

Vas DO ÁDDociaLon between FERNS and this Agescy.)

do That in 196% Clay SHAW gAVO NORIO! IL

attache case containing $59, 000 iica NCRTON de-

Livered to saa Harvey Leo in diontessey, siosica.

(Concion There is no eridesce that Lee Harry

Ocveld one la liarico la 1962. Taero is no eviderer..

creept to unnumoned word of a criminal and drug

adlist, that Ciay SHAT know Ornia SHAl is to

only porson indictod by Carrison to anic on the chargo

of conspiring to kill Faccldent hencedy. )

1 SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TheE HORTON recalved $500 3 sonth 22y

STOr CLA and that he also received tronuses ca $5, 000

for the action donoribed in sub-paragraph a, above, and

$2, 500 for that doncribed is aub-peragragh b.

& ThE: NONTON raported to an unidonified oll

compory oficial la Calgray, Mberta, Cunsia,

co The? NORTON lost his Cir job is Hovember

1965 zad was adviacd in sette don i Calgary.

2a Illoits are cader may lo outain a copy of tho edicios of the

Vancouvez Sua, contaizing the article horeia deosribed, lorever,

C/2/60/d is also sequentad to sce to Etama statonito try to get a

copy for us, eithor indonendently or througi

3o All pestinent Agency rccords lava boor clocked.

There le

nO LeCOrd D & DOnAld 2. NORTON I DOMIU I. NORTON.

There is

Eiso nO TOcord Di a DOnIa NORTON to matchos auy oi tho forogoing

iafo=mation.

1 Toolo/E/aC/ais als requeered to obtato avallable iafosma

Has from

rogarding NORION's general character and roputation

loI veracity, Bccuuso Diatrict Attarzoy Carriaos baa rado taicurded

chaagea tut Cls and toe FBI are interíoriag in ide Invoutigation in How

Orleans, Angalrion to

Ignoria bo lortog. It lo requestra tazi no

rajoreace bo made to Gurrieon or his investigation. It 12 suzocated tat

dio only zebeon diver soù our latarust bo thus NORTON has mads faise

allegations last GiA craployed blos

5. It Is requestad thai a choch be min in the files of/s/COGi

see Facther subjoct apponte eercia.

Menzo #7

Donovan E. Prati

:DC/CI/R24

SECRET

---

