# 104-10427-10044

## Page 1

104-10427-10044

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10427-10044

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : GOODPASTURE, A

TO

: LEADER, JOHN

, IG STAFF

TITLE

: BACKGROUND ON MEXICO STATION SUPPORT ASSETS (COVERAGE

OF SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES)

DATE

: 02/10/1977

PAGES

10

SUBJECTS : EMBASSY

JEK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

: 06/23/04

JFK-RH14 : F20

: 20040330-1069359

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10427-10044

---

## Page 2

SECRET

ISECRET,-

10 Feb 77

Source:

Motes made by d. Goodgasture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Subject:

jackground on Mexico Stati

(Coverage of Soviet and

D

Assets

1. Unilateral coverage.

BARTED

ico Station was opened I

April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until

of Hin Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to?

exploit leads fron the Soviet Enbassy. This unbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

teau and a mail intercept operation.

8.. Thoze taps were placed by an'emaloyee of the telephone company

Ratinad the 5499490.

who was handled by David WILSTED (pseudo). The number of Lines

tarped was liked y availility of a listening,

post nearby

(since the taps were not rade in the majnace.

Send English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czechy

anscribers.

Generally

these agents (205u1

Var Mexican American) were related

(which the

at tine felt was food security in that

if they

red about shop; they would talk to each other.)

bo Three photo sites were handled by Arderson with the help'

i Harry zhoney (retired

people che

pEr®

REDUCTION

g in Chicago) and TDY TSI

of camera, film, and concealment

devices.

and LICALIA) Di

fixed site bang opposite across

the street fron

the front gate of the Soviet Erbassy which had

both a vehicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

Horthlest corner.of their conpound and LIITED was diagorally

- across & double barrelled street on the Southe

sisters page le

1S2CHET

1.07395 e pac014645

22599.

Lü0U164

JFK-056

Copy20f7.

PAGE

231: 319

COFY NO.

C003015

SECRET

1-3

13

---

## Page 3

KEEGIET

that block. LI IT'D vas the first base aid it creraied strictly on an

c: erimental basis in the early stoges. I trink the lexi Station Lo-ght

one storey

this property. (a/Stanish Colorial

be sure. Later this houger!

through LINOUSIE (check to

This base was closed when

the Station got word they let

han" was being relcased to the

puolic by the liarren Cornission

choto operators were moved to another apt

nearby. The property sas sold (under an operational agreement with LIOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartuent blding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned as an alternate photo base to IlMITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the sare side of the street

as LIIIED but in the middle of the block South. It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Erbassy. The agents in LEITED and LILYRIC (both

l'exican fazilies) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LISTIC as a ponter earina, Nola, the this most

te, was located

in one of a row of four houses on the South, sic

CHe orlet Babassy compound

which the l'exico Station purcrased a

151955 (ceck date), also using

This site overlooked the back garden of

the soviet Inbassy consolad. The purpose of this operation ves to get 500d

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel to at thet tine were largely

unidentified in Mexico Station records). Thé three photo sites vere handled by

Ramon Alvarez (Mexican citizen of U.S. mother

sho tauget elerentary level at

shen from LLITED

husband, Carlos (Mexican doctor)

developed and printed

ect print strips- The raster plan

ties

was for michula filn to de. broc

essed inside ISD nan fron 1957 to 1959 farper

Holt - resigned) could not handle the volume and

the unprocessed fila began

to accumulate, the inside Co (rahoney) becane disgusted

and took the filn out

for Ramon's brather-in-law to process (probatly early 1959). Thus Ramon becare

the handler for all three photo bases.

A sensitive stair D unitoring operation

ISENET

6000

3003016

PAGE

23203 3184

COPY NO.

---

## Page 4

F..

SECRET,

was run out of another one of these houses (crypt for the four houses tas

IT'USE,], ets). This was ha:dled by. Glen WIDDEll (outside ISD officari ana

l'aconey using HU TDY teams for monitoring. This opsration vas also separate

frOJ LICALLA. The two houses in between vere,

rented to unsistecting tenants:

C.

under lahores natalios

PEPRODUCTION

tean consisted of & half

panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo corsra-e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio (fron LINTEED BASE)

ween soreose of interest left the imbassy gate and stay with them

until they made their neetings.. These agents knew about the LnITED

SASE celause they had LIlTrD photos for identification purgoses..

This worked fairly well until about the niddle of 1958, (check date)

when one of the surveillance agents got too

close

s terget and

arrested by the Mexican transit pol

turned over to the

Hexican Secret Serrice.

Payn

the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney t

bid out (Juad hustin of the Goodrich,

Little and Riquen

de firm), the agent: had identified Sancho (who vas

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw, and the inside-

phone nunber of Mahoney (who sas subsequently replaced by Louis

Fuckett). As a result of this flap, the LIFEAT project was broken

up into several others.

new crypts.

TaĐ UM THO

are not changed but sere given

laggard replaced Andersón in handling

the unilateral phone

8012 te PALATE

eeblaced lahoney and handled the

and the photo bases through Renon-

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) mail

intercept handled by Charlie inderson III, The agent (l'exican) had

a seni official status and arranged to obtain selected letters fron

.. =

G00E

0003017

PAGE

233 03

COPY NO.

319

15

---

## Page 5

1.-

SECHET.

starfed sj i ican arry officers.) Initially the sistion tried to zet every

ierand nade Ly thie Haricans. both Snith and John hed language difficulties and

personal proölens associated with beire outside

the station so that the Mexicans

were virtially uncantrollaile, spendi

equipment at enorious cost

dried are to four here ABEN

part of the bargain in the

We wanted. Spera was repiaced

same pincer soverent of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady had turned down by the son, LiE:VOX-?.

Finally when the cost becane exhorbitant and there was little to show for it,

the project was revarped. Smith and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who tas put Inside the listening rost to naintain

Brady was reassigned to other duties rendirg a transter.

the equipent. Scott took over the project as case

with TELEGANT.

He designated Ann Goodpasture to neet dailing with

be routine supervision

of the Ilstening post, pickles up transac

lages. Goodpasture had no

dealingswith the Vexicans except.

all decisions were made bi

We Sat was Ill or out of ton. Generally,

This was about late 1961.

3.. "y menory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Boassy but I

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a' rakeshift arrangement of volunteers

thrnugh nost of 1960 and El with Ton Hazlitt producing volurinous reports ca

their actisities and recruitirg agents right

and left arong Cuban nationals In

lexico City.

I Personal BOsEEP RAUCTIO

now is uno was in liexico during

the period prior to Oswald

Herren loviesion so detonal

so "es there and what they were doing I

heve gro: ped persons together chronologically with areas of their assignent

as the

coviring fron 1950 to 1969 so thet itstores names cop up, one can tell vnat

period they were in lexico and

their assignments, at the time.

SECRET,

0003013

PAGE

235 •г

COPY

NO.

319

7

---

## Page 6

SECRETI

8/56-6/68

COS

DCOS

Winston i. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/55

Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

10/58 - 12/62

(retired)

6/63-9/65

Alan lihite (retired) -

10/65 - 1959

Stanley Watson (retired in lexico)

COVERT ACZION

Prior to 1954

12/54 - 7/53

12/55 - 9/61

Howard hunt (retired)

Stennard Short (re

Chief

- 3/64

8/62-9/64

2/64 - 6/65

ames flannery

9/64 - 11/66

20/65 - 1967

Stanley WatsonIC/(retired)

68

65 - 71.

Joseph SmithC(retired in Mexico).

CUBA OPERATICIS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Chief

2/60 - 4/62. Jack Stewart (retired Costa Rica

4/63 - 4/65

Bob Shaw Chief

PROMBITED

9/63 - 7/65

Ray Swider

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Hackay

(N.*

P1-10n

8/63 - 6/65

David Phillies

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piccol

10/55 - 12/67 Peysy Maggara

SOVIET TAPGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Lyon (refused)

9/59- 8/65 Herbert Manell Chief-

9/59 - 3/65 Barbara lianell -

5/64 - 7/65. Willian Brigit

4/05 - 11/67 Cynthia Hausnann

6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

7/65-4/69

SOVIET TPANSCRIPEES

6/56 - 8/53

6/58 - 6/53

6/63 - 70

George Misko

Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) -

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Farheine (os)

0169

0003020

PAGE

COPY NO.

236

of

319,5

---

## Page 7

SUPPORT ASSETS

Unilateral

phono

teps

949 - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

155 - 4/60

Pegey kaggord Asst

15€ - 1/62 Frank: Estancona Chief

/60

- 10/6 Thomas Keenan

164 - 12/67 lüchael Farmer

49-71

REPRODUCHM

Masside co

in Mexico

Inilateral photo

Cubans

3/59 - 4/64

PROAIBITED

. Robert Zanbernardi (resigned lexico)

7/59 - 6/62

Richard Spathar ISD (retired)

Inilateral photo Soviets

3/54 - 4159 Harry I. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

5/57 - 8/64

A. Goodpesture (alternate. cO-

and internal routing)

3/58 - 6/63 Louis D. Puckett (retired)

3/63 - 10/67, Tromas Keenan -Robert

65 - 66

William Bright

8126

56-- 68

signed in Mexico

V

Tracal.

Cabaria. Ol repostin

jaison phone teps

959 - 1969 Winston Scott (deceased)

-959 - 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

-959 - 1960

Turner Smith (outside, now retirca)

959 - 1960 John

960- 1961

John Brady (retired)

962 - 1968

A, Godpasture

irison - surveillance

3/54 - 4159 Harry Mahoney

159 - 19c1

Thones Hazlitt

2/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldnann

SD Gutside unit

155 - 12/63

3-4654

Glen lidden (retirea) -

Joseph i. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed debn

00901

0003021

237

PAGE

COPY NO.

- 03 31914

---

## Page 8

SECRET

About nid 1962 (clock date) LiNoy

outside Mexi rapt asted

for the telephone nunbers of the Soviet

and Satellite Embassies.

With this forewarning, LIFEAT (uni

as I recall, the lexicans con

? Polish, and I lugoslav I

monitor rio nade short suraries

sas disconnected. However,

§ Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

se listening post had a live

iteresting conversations for a daily

resume which was received each day arourd 8 a.y. (passed by Flick to Coodcasture

to get to Scott before 9.a.7.) Later (when the reel was completely recorded)

full transcripts were typed and passed to the station in the same way, however,

there was usually a time lag of a day or so.: Those transcripts which had

Russian or another language besides Spanish or English vent out of the listening

post the day after the transcript (of other conversations.or

reel) was

taped. These reels were taken to another location mere ther

ead typed. in the case af tie Russian

were translated

Ta tiệns,

Boris Tarasoff usually ran

about & week behind the date af

loreration besuse of the maine of

Russian conversations ar

"Henbers of the Soviet Erbassy. During this

• period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried to Boris by one of the people fron the Soviet Section or they may

have been carried to his by flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to Herbert Kanell to take to Boris. Herbert Hanell and his wife Barbara

handled all of the processing of Soviet transcr

its. ly job involved screening

the photograpis as soon as we learned

probably an Anerican. However,

photos wers ricked up thres

for dates a few days previous

night tige basis. Fhotographs wer

calling hinself Oswald was

as a backlag kecause the

ones ricked up were usually

le doctor proce:sed the filn on a

made usually until ons roll was used but

later le got it cranged to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators,cleared the canera each day vether there was englimate a full

roll of film exposed. Instructions' vere to cover office hours, photogrash ench

SECRET

0003022

238

PAGE

COPY NO.

• 319

20

---

## Page 9

_4-

SECRET

new Soviet and farily, all foreigners end foreign licenee plates. Funan

error did occur but generally the agents were

conscientious The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sortisticated

frequently developed mechanical dif

(a rulse cavera) but it

ob Zaibarnardi and Spathar

(I think) handled this film

Lorna lackay screesed

the film inside the statio

I am certain that th

Oswald call came to our attention fros the

Soviet line. It was picked up and taken to Boris for a translation because

the caller was trying to speak Russian. Any delay was caused by waiting to

corpare the photographs with the typed transcript. There were no copies

trarscripts every nade in languages other than Spanish

Foglish because Win

Scott could read osly those two languages ard ke

creened the

transcripts for operatlonal leads he vanied

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0200772

STET,

0003023

PAGE

COPY NO.

239

of

319

---

## Page 10

SECRET,

ЛИНИ

RIEl

REPRODUCTION RAP

ONED

Pliato

(4).

REPR GOLETION

PROMITES

SECHET

000

19173

0003024

PAGE

240 0 319

COPY NO.

---

