# 104-10103-10365

## Page 1

104-10103-10365

Tes 11No 1996-811

NO -

X-REF TO FILE.

RET- IQ BRANCH |

PESTRoY L

1. Тауді

FROM:

ACTION: =-

8.

ELASSIFIED RESSAGE

Fede#t3

13

SECR

note descom pes

MICROFILIAS

JAN 6 1504

ROUTING

3

000

023

INFO

*(!.

D/Del8.

DDP. MINUt

ra/o

4, c1/0r5,

5• 7,

son toca

1,.11/0

:R, WH 7.

iw,

R

TOCS

P

Y

SECRET 242523?

DIR CITE WAN OS

UF6-11313

25 DEC 63 DO2DZ

5P

IN

LA MAM 2 DALGO E MOY POSIMOOKED 2: NOV

R

"Darei"

IOCAL AST•

LAD PALE

SUBOCCT OF 15GA

1185 EIDA DE, SOURCE MESCRIPTION AND PROVISIONAL; PLS APFROVE.

Y

FILED 240032

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLEO DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

R

1

•COUNTRY. CURA/GOUIET METICH!

SUbJ:

IN COMMENT:

Tv 3+9-862709445 162495

NO DISSEMINATION " THE ATACHED

IT POR"°

•': !."

CASTRO RELATIVE TO AN INTERNAL MIL! TAPY

ROUTING

INITIAL

CY FLRDING

RID/AN

RELEASE M

RID/MIS

TDC5

FRECEDENCI

*IIT

CLEASING !W

216943-

D198-5

192-343

Feder

FORM

8-63 1389

OBSOLETE

•FITIONS

RT COPP

PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON:

iAS/2002

SECRET

EXELUDES:

-ROM AUTOMATI

DOWN

FRIOKIORNEI

R

C

P

R

UOa>

---

## Page 2

FILE RID

RAUHINPORMATION

RET 1O BRANCH

DESTROY

SIG

RMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

retard es

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

SE ..

RET

Т98. -

Pe d

EUSBAG AMOND SMEMINANON COMPABLE

UBJECT

R

ATE OF

ED.

ACE &

ку асо.

BATE DISTR

:?CEDENCE

1T30FS

N 87830

1

P

LE CRACINGE

BED RUGAYNO.

APPRAISEL IN

DURING THE CARLY FART OF NOVEMBER 1963. FIDEE CASTRO

PRUZ, DURINE THE COURSE OF A PRIVATE CONVERSATION, STATED

C

THAT MILITA: LOSSES IN CRIENTE PROVINCE CAUSED BY HURRICANE FLORA

•:MOUNTED TO ZA MILLIONS OF COLLARS, CASTRO ALSO EXFRESSED MIS

Y

HEAR OF THE FOSSIBILITY, OF "COMMANDO INSURRECTIONS" WRICH MIGHT

TAKE. PLACE IN LARGE SCALE IN CUBA, AS THE CUBAN ECONOMY WAS SUCH

THAT HE COMO NOT MAINTAIN A STATE OF MILITARY ALERT FOR A LONG TIME.

2. CASTRO INDICATED THAT ANY PROLONGED PERIOD OF MILITARY.

R

ALERT MIGHT CAUSE DISCONTENT AMONG THE TROOPS; A SITUATION WHICH

IVOULD BE DANGEROUS AND CREATE IRREPARABLE CONSEQUENCES. SO AS TO

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

G.49

hosta greetery ensel

tick late.

AID A DIESSO 495

11OIS1E/ T GHETTO

Lore inar

LEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

C

P

Y

R

C

FORM

8-63 1 389

$119IONS

RI COPY

RI COPY

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MSSIFICATION D

ATION CONT: $

Will: "

IN

TDCS

87039

NEGATE THIS POSSIBILITY, CASTRO WAS UNDERTAKING AN INTENSIVE

•PROPAGANDA CAMPAIGN TO GIVE CONFIDENCE TO HIS TROOPS AND TO LIMIT

THE OCCURRENCE OF ANY INTERNAL UPRISING.

3. FIDEL CASTRO ADMITTED TO "SOME DIFFÈRENCES. BETWEEN CUBA.

AND THE SOVIET UNION, BUT EXPLAINED. THAT THE TWO COUNTRIES HAD.

ENTERED INTO AN AGREEMENT FOR A CONTROLLED RELEASE OF NEWS RELATIVE

TO SUCH DIFFERENCES AND THEREBY WIN SOME TIME.

4. CASTRO INDICATED THAT ONE OF THE AIMS OF THIS CONTROLLED.

RELEASE OF NEWS WAS TO LET THE IMPERIALISTS BE EVE THAT THE

SOVIETS WERE TAKING THEIR TROOPS OUT OF CUBA AND DISMANTLING SOME

OF THEIR BASES.

•¡ 56. ACCORDING TO FIDEL CASTRO, DESPITE THE FACT THAT IN EARLY

NOVEMBER, THE BULK OF THE SOVIET EQUIPMENT WAS STILL UNDER SOVIET

CONTROL AND WOULD BE USED (BY THE SOVIETS?) IF NECESSARY, THE

MAIN PURPOSE OF KEEPING THE ARMS IN CUBA WAS TO RE-EXPORT THEM TO

THIRD COUNTRIES, WITHOUT THE SO: IET UNION APPEARING AS

PARTICIPANT IN THIS ADDITIONAL ARMS EXPORT.

6. FIELD DISSEMS NONE.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSPICATION - DIRSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

---

## Page 4

33

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

5

TO:

FROM:

-CTION:

INFO:

PAGE 2

TOCS IN 87839

REVOL"• 2. CUBAN-SOVIET TACTICS TO PLAY UP IDEOLOGICAL AND

POLITICAL DIFFERENCES. 3. ROLE OF CUBA IN EXPORTING SOVIES ARMS

' TE HIRO COUNTRIFO.

• C:: EARLY NOV EI

FACHE UN TO GIE, MAMI CR GEC. 63)

C:G: :4313

SOURCE: = BAN WHO WAS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH THE 26 OF JULŸ

MOVEMENT TIL 1959. SECAUSE OF HIS PREVIOUS HIGH MILITARY RANK

HE STILL FINTAINS CONTACTS WITH VARIOUS OFFICERS IN THE PRESENT

CUBAN MILITARY, SOURCE HAS RECEIVED SOME BASIC TRAINING !N

INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION, HOWEVER HE HAS NOT SUBMITTED SUFFICIENT

REPORTS TO PERMIT AN EVALUATION OF HIS RELIABILITY. THIS INFORMATION

WAS OBTAINED FROM A DOCTOR ON THE - STAFF OF A LEADING MiLITARY

IN COMMENT:

RELEASING INTO:

TDCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DACLASSIFICATIDN

Copy No.

---

## Page 5

• CLASSEY IC

M-REF TO FILE

TESTROY

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

ND)...

CLASSiFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING.

: 2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Y

FAGE 3

TDCS

IN 87859

HOSPITAL IN HABANA, WHO IN TUR: OBTAINED THE CINFORMATION FROM ANOTHER

MEDICAL DOCTOR WHO HAS BEEN CHARGED WITH & CONCIDENTIAL REPORTING

ASSIGNMENT BY FIDEL CASTRO, AND AS A RESULT OF WHICH HE HAS

READY ACCESS TO FIDEL CASTRO.

# COMMENT:

R

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

ELEASING IWO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

-ORM

8-63 | 381

OBSOLETE

ATITIONG

SECRET

RICOPY

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

GROUP !

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIE

DO WAGRADIME AND

DECLASSIRICATION

ROHIOTEN

R

C

R

---

