# 104-10171-10042

## Page 1

104-10171-10042

10.

DISPATCH

Chief, Task. Force W

CLASSARKIATIA

S-E-C-RE-T

tid,

Bj.t0

11:

PROCESSING

ACTION

MAROLD. ICE USURING

NO INDEXING RIGUIRLO

DELY QUALIFIER

HLADQUARTERS DESE

CAR JUDGE INDERING

ABSTRACT

AR1r.#051180

88.8 41

Chief of Station, JNWAVE

coperation/ GYROSE/RUCAGEZ AWHINT,

Report of Independent DRE Infiltration Operation

ACTICA MIQUIED. PLIERENCES

Action: FYI and files

ReL: B: WAVE 3911

• WAVE

3911

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

1.

According to ANHINT-42, on 20 May 1962 at

Do Not Reproduffbut 2200 hours,

local,

the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) mounted an

operation independent of JMWAVE support,

infiltrating AMHINT=40 and

AMHINT-53 [at Kawama, Varadero Beach .(2313N-8116W)

10

team was launched successfully and observed as they moved up the beach

and across a

fleld to a lighted dwelling which is an operational

safehoused and during

AMHINT saienouse,

a 12-man

recovery of the

launch dinghy. by the parent craft JUANIN lorief fire

militia patrol discovered them

light that ensued, the JUANIN I crew reported that two to four militia-

men were observed

to drop under their fire.

According to reference

three casualtles

"on the escapees". )

The JUANIN I suffcred no casualties

or. hits, retired from the beach at speeds up to 30 knots and returned

to their base in Key Marathon without ineident.

Distribution:

3 - C/TFW

"CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY

CLASSNICATIONE

S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE TYVED

19-120 - 19 caD

DATE DiSPATCHED.

MAY 3 1 1962

28 May 1962

DISPATON SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

UFGA-4186

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-120-19/3

W/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

§-E-C-R-E-T

UFG -1186

2.

At 1515 hours

on 21 May, the DRE offices in Miami received a

commercial cable in prearranged code indicating the team had arrived

sately in Varadero.

Later, ar about 1020 hours, a delephone cali

indicated that the team were in safehouses in Havana since early

morning 21 May.

On 22 Ma!, a legal traveler,

arrived in Miami and reported

(Subject of a following dispatch. arce the serine tos renolon.

_is the safehouse owner who

coccised the leam, provided change of clothing, food, shelter,

the cable confirming safe arrival and later transported them to Havana.

Subject did not witness the beach

encounter, but heard the fire-fight

and overheard

reports of the encounter during a visit to the Militia

post the following morning.

The most significant operational factor of this mission is

that the militia post has reported the incident as an 'escape" and

has not suspected

that an infiltration operation has taken place.

Therefore,

no search or readblocks were set up and

that ANHINT safehousing in that area is still intact.

portant to note that, although conjecture at this point, apparently

the GOC has not given this clash the propaganda treatment given the

patrol encounter of their CY-28 with the SUSAN. ANN because it was •

"escape" and therefore any casualties inflicted on escapees

would not make sympathetic propaganda.

Also, there were reportedly no

militia casualties to give this clash propaganda value.

1. • This operation

was mounted by orders of ANHINT-53 who was

becoming understandably desperate about DRE internal conditions.

Subject had been scheduled for infiltration three times over the past

three months and

cancelled for reasons ranging from mission reception

hazards to renssessment and requirements for further training.

coming after a long history of DRE internal support problems

and

obstacles, some of which resulted in costly operational losses and

compromises,

prompted AMHINT-53 to mount the infiltration at any cost.

Subject's primary mission is to identify and confirm appointments

within clandestine apparat at national and provincial levels.

Opera-

tional losses

through arrest and KIA or execution during past four,

months has resulted in almost two complete turnovers in leadership

at national levels.

His secondary mission is. to

organize the National

Reception Committee for materiel supply and infiltration of paramilitary

instructors, radio operators and intelligence agents.

For this purpose

ANHINT-40,

who has operated as National Reception Committee Organizer

for almost two years,

formed the

team with AMHINT-53.

These preparations

within PBRUMEN

should be ready by the time their radio operator,

AMHINT-52, completes his training.

5. Some of the pertinent operation detalls follow:

The JUANIN I is a new,

recently purchased by

the DRE. for

their int EraTRoN

BERTRAN built "Noppy",

and supply

operations.

They have trained their crew and equipped their vessel

idea of offering it to JNWAVE in return for f/T communications

armament support for their missions.

Such a support agreement

been approved in principle by JHAVE and details are being worked

out by the Maritime

Section, JAWAVE.

b. On this operation, the vessel crew was as follows:

AMHINT-12, Captain

ANHINT-43, Narigator

LHBOUY - 2,

regionl

intelligence and guide

Bernabe PESt Ballate, gunner

Janel QUISA, gunner

2/5R

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH•

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGAA4186---4

c. Vessel armament was procured by DRE and reported as:

1 ea SUG, N-3, Cal .45 (800 rds ammo)

ea FAR, Belgian,

(200 rds)

2

ea Carbine, NIAl Cal .30 (300 rds)

1

1

ea Rifle, Garand M-1 (300

rds)

ca

Pistol, Cal .45 (100 rds).•

ea Pistol, 9mm (100 rds)

6.

According to AUHINT-12 narrative of the mission, the JUANIN I

departed Marathon

base at 1130 hours local on 20 May

with clear weathe.

and about one foot sens.

Proceeding on a course of 186 degrees at abou:

17 knots cruising, the JUANIN I

arrived at a point approximately 20

(2330N-8115W) at about 2030 hours.

nu order to reach their pent at 2200 hours, and reduce daylight exposure

in the sensitive north coast arca, they reduced speed and killed time.

Merchant vessels were observed and avoided since it was feared that

JUANIN

position and course might be reported to GOC.

Upon arriving at their launch point, beach conditions were as

expected on this day of traditional festivity.

The small park known as

"Parque Infantil Inig", was illuminated and much of the local populace

were dancing in the pavillion.

AMHINT-42 selected a point about 500

yards north of the park and about 500 yards: from their nearest saichouse.

As he brought the JUANIN into about 200 yards of the beach, the moon

was at about a 25 degree elevation and a fringe of pine shaded most.

of the deserted beach

aren where the team would land.

The JUANIN is

camaflouge color and was apparently not

team. boarded the 12-foot, fiberglass dinghy with

6 hp outboard and accompanied by AMBOUY-2 and

tive cover fire, proceeded to the beach.

through the pines and acress the field to the safehouse, a patrol of

STER

Bernabe PENA for protec-

The landing was snooth and

incident but after the team

had made their way up the beach,

militia came down the beach,

The launch dinghy had just started from the beach when 'two of

the militla ran forward and challenged them to stop and return to the

beach. AMBOUY-2 and PENA opened fire at about 40 yards range, cbserv-

ing that both militia men dropped to the sand.

The patrol then opened

up with one burst of automatic fire as the dinghy got underway to the

parent JUANIN.

Neanwhile,

the JUANIN came in

to about 75 yards to

recover the dinghy

and retire from the beach at top speed.

recovery,

the patrol kept up fire fron one automatic weapon which was

ineffective and did not score one hit on personnel or craft.

Upon return to base,

the JUANIN crew were warned by

AMHINT-42 of security

implications and responsibilities of the

operation, i.e. any leak in Miami could result in the compromise of

AMHINT safe housing in that area as well as the death of the infiltrees.

There was no contact with ODYOKE agencies upon departure or re-entry

END OF DISPATCH

ZIBR

---

