# 104-10071-10167

## Page 1

104-10071-10167

AN

PSO0260r

5gcTN 02675

16-29

DIRECTOR ENFOCASTO DOMINIOS CORT AU PRINCE BUENOS AIRES,

(CADRID) ESSO ESAR, CANANA CITY) SEPALANT

SECT 10N°: 0F 2 1F 7

21-10

Ironnos.

Arl dic-22.

REF SANTO DOMINGO

JEVAVE-SSO:

CUEG-3E2:9, (SANTO DOMINGO) 3835.

"Criese (n3.2511,

WAVE REGISTRY

CARD ON RENEZ RENOS "ACSI SOURCE SO 15274 PER MASTER LIST.

18 APR ILIS55. "

FIELD

CONMENT PARAGRAPH 6 FRON JN ILLO-"

133

INDEX.

FIL ED:.

292256Z.

SECRET

22-9-35

111-326655

• REPRODUCTO

8642

---

## Page 2

14 00000.1

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC/ SPAIN/ARGENT INA BA

DOI.

* 26 NOVEMBER 196%

SUBJECT:

ALLEGED ASSOCIATION OF FULGENCIO BATISTA, JUAN

PERON, DOMINICAN GENERAL ANTONIO IMBERT BARRERA,

ANO ROLANDO MASFERPER ROJAS IN RAN FOR ACTION

IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

ACQ

SOURCE

:' UNITED STATES, MIANI 128-29 NOVEMBER 1967) UFG-9178

A CUBAN EMIGRE RESIDENT IN MIAMI. SOURCE HAS GOOD

CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN NCT IVISTS IN THE EMIGRE

COMMUNITY, SOURCE

HAS NOT REPORTED FREQUENTLY

IN THE PAST, BUT HE IS CONSIDERED TO BE AN ACCURATE

AND RELIABLE REPORTER OF WHAI HE HAS HEARD. HE

OBTAINED THIS INFORMATION FROM JULIO ATON CONSTANZO

PALAU, WHO OBTAINED IT FROM PACAUCHO MORALES,

-

FATHER OF THE FIANCEE OF ADOLFO JIMENEZ AQUILERA

¡SEE PARAGRAPH 3). MORALES WAS DESCRIBED BY CON.

STANZO AS A WEALTHY VOMINICAN WHO MADE A SUBSIAN-

TIAL FINANCIAL CONTRIBUT ION TO PRESIDENT JOAQUIN

seriet

8642

ARD REPRODUCTIONE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

GUITION

IN

TOCS

PAGE

OF

PAGES

(desser controls)

BALAGUER'S ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN. CONSTANZO SAD

THAT MORALES TRAVELLED FREQUENTLY BETWEENTHE

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND MIAMI.

.4.

SUMMARY: A CUBAN EMIGRE IN MIANI WHO HAS DREA

ASSOCIATED WITH ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS, FORMER, CUSAY

SENATOR, IN PLOTTING ACT ION DESIGNED TO OVERTHROW IME

GOVERNIENI. OF HAITI AND ESTABLISH A BASE THERE FOR ACTIVITY

AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO IN CUBA HAS SAID THAT FULGENCIO BAT ISTA

JUAN PERON, AND FORMER DOMINICAN GENERAL ANTONIO IMBERI

BARRERADHAVE MADE PLANS FOR "SOME TYPE OF ACTION" IN THE

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. A FANNED STEP IN IMPLEMENT ING I HE

ACTION FAILED WHEN AN ARMS-CARRYING EMISSARY WAS ARRESTED .

JON SANTO DOMINGO BECAUSE HIS CONTACT IN THE CUSTOMS SERVICE

HAD BEEN INVIVED IN AN ACCIDENT AND COULD NOT APPEAR AT

THE APPOINTED TIME. END SUMMARY.

ON 26 NOVENSER 1967. IN MIANI, FLORIDA, JULIO ATON

ENSTANZO PALAU, CUSAN EMIGRE, SAID THAT FULGENGIO BATISTA,

JUAN PERON, AND FORMER DOMINICAN GENERAL ANTONIO IMBERT

BARRERA HAD MET IN SPAIN "A FEW WEEXS AGO"

AND MADE

PLANS

TO TAKE SOVE TYPE OF ACTION IN IHE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

---

## Page 4

14.00000

EDITIONS

IN

TDCS

PAGE "

OF

PAGES

fritzaren

OLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS HAD BEEN ASKED TO SUPPLY WEAPONS

AND HAD AGREED TO DO SO. VLADIMIR

SECEN, DOMINICAN, IS ALSO

NOLNED IN THE PLAN.

2.

CONSTANZO SAID THAT ADOLFO JIMENEZ AGUILEPA, CUSAN

MIGRE, HAD MADE A

IRIP "NOT LONG AGO" TO SPAIN, WHERE THE

Dinie cry

VERON-SAT ISTA- IMBERI-MASFERRER ALLIANCE HAD BEEN PLANNED.

IMENEZ HAD RETURNED FROM SPAIN WITH PLENTY OF MONEY.

ABOUT

et.

IN LATE OCTOBER 1967, ANTONIO IMBERT HAD VISITED MIAMI OR

SOME OTHER PLACE IN FLORIDA AND. HAD A LUNCHEON CONVER-

SAT IÓN WITH NASFERRER AND JMENEZ. NoiL

50. (FIELD COMMENT: CONSTANZO, MASFERRER, AND JIMENEZ

PERE AMONG APPROXIMAIELY EIGHTY PERSONS ARRESTED BY UNITED

STATES AUTHORITIES ON 2 JANUARY 1987 NEAR MARATHON, IN THE

FLORIDA KEYS; IN CONNECT ION PITH A PLOT LED BY MASFERRER,

ANO WAS A CUBAN SENATOR PURING BAT ISTA'S REGINE, AND FATHER

JEAN BAPTISTE GEORGES, MAIT IAN EXILE PRIEST. THE CONSPIRAÇY

WAS DESIGNED TO LAUNCH AN INVASION OF HAIL WHICH WOULD

EAD -TO THE OVERIKROW OF PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER'S

GOVERNMENT AND PROVIDE A BASE FOR ACTION AGAINST FIDEL

CASTRO. SIX OF THE PLOTTERS, INCLUDING MASFERRER, CONSTANZO,

S

E

ÄL I

---

## Page 5

14-00000

#BE JUUS;

IN

1247"

TDCS

PAGE

OF

PAGES

CeleBration!

(dissom corerola)

AND GEORGES, WERE CONVICTED ON 16 NOVEMBER. SENTENCES ARE

TO BE PASSED. AFTER "BACKGROUND INVESTIGAT IONS." VLADIMIR

SECEN, MENTIONED IN PARAGRAPH 1, ABOVE, AS ALSO INVOLVED Il

THE ACTION PLANNED IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, IS A CROAT IAN-

•BORN DOMINICAN CITIZEN. HE IS A FORMER COLONEL IN I HE

DOMINICAN ARMY, A SPECIALIST IN MILITARY TACTICS I

•4. CONSTANZO SAID INAT INENEZ, DESCRIBED AS A RELATIVE

OF MASFERRER, "WAS TO DELIVER THE FIRST SHIPMENT OF WEAPONS

TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. IN A SUITCASE WHICH WAS TO BE

CHECKED THROUGH CUSTOMS AT IME AIRPORT BY A CUSTOMS OFFICER

WHO WAS IN ON THE PLOT. ACCORDING TO CONSTANZO THE FLAN

FAILED BECAUSE THE CUSTOMS OFFICER WAS INJURED IN AN

AUTONOBILE ACCIDENT AND COULD NOT BE AT HIS POST WHEN

JIMENEZ ARRIVED. CONSÉQUEVILY JIMENEZ WAS ARRESTED.

FiELD

COMMENT: : DIARIO LAS AMERICAS CARRIED A UNITED PRESS

INTERNATIONAL DISPATCH DATELINED SANTO DOMINGO, 22 NOVEMBER

1967, REPORTING THE ARREST THERE OF JIMENEZ, WHO HAD WIi

HIM A SUITCASE CARRYING EIGHT M-1 MACHINE GUNS, A BERZITA

MACHINE GUN, AND A .32-CALIBER BROWNING PISTOL. ACCORD LiG

TO THE DISPATCH, jIMENEZ HAD ARRIVED IN SANTO DOMINGO FRON

REPORT- CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED' D ISSEY

SE-PET

UDUA

100

CARD

---

## Page 6

14-00000

IN..

TDCS

PAGE

OF PAGES.

3

MIAMI. UPON HIS ARRIVAL HE HAD DECLARED TO CUSTOMS SOME

BUT NOI ALL OF THE ARMS.I

5. ACCORDING TO CONSTANZO THE WEAPONS JIMENEZ HAD

CARRIED TO SANTO DOMINGO WERE FROM/MASFERRER'S STOCK, OF ARMS I

THAT HAD NOT BEEN PICKED UP IN THE RAID IN 'ANUARY BY

UNITED STATES AUTHORITIES AT COCO PLUM JEACI:, IN THE FLORIDA

KEYS. MASFERRER HAD ALSO PURCHASED NEW WEAPONS IN MIAMI

ANQOD NEW JERSEY. SOME WERE WEAPONS WHICH HAD BEEN STOLEN

FROM THE UNITED STATES ARMY.

WILLIAMS RESERVE CENTER, 11788

NORTHWEST 27TH STREET, MIAMI. THE THIEF WAS CASTELLON SENUS.

WHO HAD BEEN SERVICING VENDING MACHINES AT THE CENTER.

6. ' CONSTANZO SAID THAT "ABOUT SIX MONTHS AGO, " A

SPANISH EMISSARY OF JUAN PERON HAD ARRIVED IN MIAMI, HAD MET

WITH MASFERRER AND SECEN, AND HAD GIVEN THEM MONEY. (FIELD

COMMENT: WITH REGARD TO THE POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF JUAN

PERON, IT IS PERHAPS COINCIDENTAL THAT ACCORDING TO A SOURCE

WHỌ HAS REPORTED ACCURATELY IN THE PAST, TWO WELL-KNOUN

PERONISTS RECENTLY WERE TO MEET IN MIAMI AND PROCEED TO

SANTO DOMINGO. DELIA DE PARODI ARRIVED IN MIAMI BY AIR ON

18 NOVEMBER FROM BUENOS AIRES, HANING BEEN INVITED BY

SECKET

---

## Page 7

100000

TOCS

PAGE

OF • PAGES

PRESIDENT JOAQUIN BALAGUER TO VISIT THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

SHE WAS TO LEAVE MIAMI ON 25. NOVEMBER ACCOMPANIED BY LUIS

GONZALEZ TORRADO, WHO WAS TO ARRIVE FROM NEW YORK ON 24

NOVEMBER.)

7. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, MIAYI REFS

OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, IGNS, BORDER PATROL, USCG,

COMKWESIFOR, U.S. ARMY FIELD APPRAISAL DETACHMENT I CALSO

SENT (SANTO DOMINGO! CORT-AU-PRINCE, EUENOS AIRES) (MADRID,

LISBON)

15-169

REPORT CLASS SECRET. NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

1%,

---

