# 104-10215-10029

## Page 1

104-10215-10029

Rolando CUBELA: Secades

born 19 Jan 1933

Subjeet 1a former protoge of Reul CASTRO and forner Pronident of

camio ortented Castro studant organisation, "Federation of Unversity

Stadents", in Havana. Subject was also one-time major in revolutionary

arny. When Subf took over feu, a purgo, confe-style, of students and

faculty vas somenesd. Fal ultimately took over administration of

Havana Unir. Subj is reported to have gradually become disaffected

with Castro Covt and has contemplated defection for some time. Latest

Indications of-Subj's attitude came fror contacts of AMCONCERT/I

and an untdentified FBI source in Miami. Subf has now been relieved

of hia Presidency of FEU, allegedly because of booze and women, but

probebly because he didn't play ball with the PSP to Univ pollties.

Subf 1s considered b# friends to be anti-Communist and also rather

critienl of the USA.

First contact with Subf by a KUBARKER was during a meeting In Mexieo

City on 9 March 1961. This nesting was arranged by Subf good friend,

CATIOS TEPEDINO, Cuban dissident now In Jevelry busineas In NIC.

The staffer vas

also a til longtime acquaintence

OT TEPEDINO's. The meeting was merely "to exchange vieus on Caba",

and subj made cortale that

understood this. S,b) adaitted

hovever that trouble is Cuba Sany was the PSP and the manner in which

they were influencing Cuban gout today.

made 3o commitments

But did offer, If Subj should so desire, listen to whatever Subf bad

to eny: in the future and to offer what ald wan ithin his pover.

Sibf ine again the subject of interest and potential defection op

whem be attended French Metional, Student Undon Caltaral Festival

In A08 1961 at Postior, Prences Parts vs Eiren OK to approach Subt

•Dut an far as file reflects (and French Deal) no offort vas ever

i lobit ling since Sub ched sent a messed

I SERIO variet:

Attend who came Lam thac be destrad to tal

with triend ot

in Parta 15 possible. 7V

---

## Page 2

On 15 June of this your 1t was learned fron a reliable source that

Sabj was going to attend the Helsinki louth Festival In July-Aug 1962.

Be was to go via tries Prague.

sources reported on

5 July that Subj had applied for a vias to attend the featival Mon

$ 20 July thru 9 August. In view of evidence, It desided that Subl

was ripe for appraosh. ANCONCERT/l stated that TOPEDINO person with

mont Influence over hit Subf. CA/mOP Staff folt best bet for our money

rond be have Subj defeot during last wook of festlval and give undest.

possible prosa play to defection, Inaluding statement of SibI's

dissatistaction with present Cuban govt. Due Finnish sensitirity

and Soviet pressure, it felt that Subj defection fatel played low key

Hels preis, then take him Copenhagen for larger play via Station assete

there. Than bring Mlemi for debriefing personality loada, Suba conditions,

eto.

Due-prosaing connittents

Jotation; It felt necenary to have

ligs case officer Bocompany TEPEDINO and gulde/ support the attempt

against Subj, KUBARK vill pay expenses TEBEDINO and return erpenses

Cabelo, providing he fil

3 bạll our way.

TEPEDINO has POA, has exprossed to Miami officer, his willingness

;8o Barope t0 help Subf. Plan already laid on for contact and briefing

TEPEDLIO In NYC this veek.

MOTBI On 8 JULy TAPSOLIO Informed Stoman that he had recelved

3 postoard on 30 June postnarked Tienns, Will fron Subf maytag that

PRDINO should not fall neot bin Parte la August 62,

EPEDINO revealed to Somen on 8 July that he had been in touch

with pal in Miant. Also wenttoned that be uny dissatisfied with.

preTdous SUBARR efforto so Subels' a planned defection in Parta

In miner 6lo and for this ronson be appronched: Fal. (Can ve.

then assume that (and I think we can) All FBI love of TaPEDINO e:

Interest: In defecting l Sibi? Also foterenting that FBI

Indfonted no interest La: TEPSDIO when ve ran pad checs with the

weak of 2 tuls.

---

