iod-tO1Ad-(00t2)ra” are EHEE
T a ‘i aN

/
i a)

FAME Ste QISSEM BY. PER srorau cores QO-2. pw a
| SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOLIEIFD

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED

ADVANCE cOry issueo/sLoTrED By ar
ACTION UNIT

P| Zam |
he 4 Migr
[Hy Sek? 6)

ACTION

a
PAGE Of /\ IN B959%5
TORI4015532 NOV 76 43052
| SG CRET 4o1508# NOV 76 STAFF
i

CITE 43052
To! DIRECTOR, % Calbb Sle-bygeitetlsamn tt:

RYBAT WNINTEL MHSPLASH WOMUSE IDF ,SECuk, Commo

1
N
F
fe}
9

T 369795 ELA9@9

i
i
i
f

1. PETE BAGLEY CALLED COS MORNING 10 NOV To RELATE
FOLLOWING?

|

| : Ay MRS, BAGLEY RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL 9 NOV FROM WOMAN.

| WITH UNUSUAL ACCENT FROM PARIS IDENTIFYING HERSELF AS CALLING ON

i BEHALF OF READERS DIGEST; (BAGLEY DID NOT KNOW WHETHER LANGUAGE

| USED FRENCH OR ENGLISH, HE COULD CHECK WIFE.)

B. PURPOSE OF CALL WAS TO IDENTIFY T.H. BAGLEY AS ONE

AND SAME WITH "PETE" BAGLEY. THIS IDENTIFICATION PERTINENT TO
ARTICLE WRITTEN BY FNU EPSTEIN, SUBJECT UNDISCLOSED, MRS

BAGLEY DEFLECTED INQUIRY AND DID NOT MAKE POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION,

C. EPSTEIN COULD CONCEIVABLY BE JAY EPSTEIN WHO WROTE

{ BOOK CRITICAL OF WARREN COMMISSION REPORT MANY OF WHICH CRITICISMS
DEFENSIBLE. EPSTEIN LATER WROTE ARTICLE FOR NEW YORKER CRITICAL
OF JIM GARRISON,

D. BAGLEY TELEPHONE NUMBER APPARENTLY OBTAINED FROM
LOCAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE,

SECRET ped od


TTI MEQ. 276°

i

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL copies RUN eY {

* REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN |

SECRET ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED |

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED. |
STAFF

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT Zz |

ACTION UNIT 7 |

1] RE. FILE . VR. i

N id |

Reon] F kd 6 i

: |

—

T 369795 ELA9a9 PAGE 82-92 IN 895925 :

TORI 4515532 NOV 76 [_Jasa52 :

E. IF NEW ARTICLE IS BY SAME EPSTEIN AND 1S ON WARREN
COMMISSION REPORT OR NEW INVESTIGATIONS KENNEDY ASSASSINATION
BAGLEY'S INVOLVEMENT via Pponor ceennapspapovor HIMSELF) COULD
BE AT ROOT OF HIS IDENTIFICATION IN ARTICLE AND HIS TELEPHONE
CALL,

2e WR, BAGLEY WISHES TO ALERT HOS TO ABOVE, BUT ALSO TO : i z
BE ADVISED OF ANY INFO-HQS MAY HAVE ON ARTICLE AND IF HE TO BE |

IDENTIFIED WOULD APPRECIATE PRIOR WARNING FOR OBVIOUS REASONS,
3. FILE DEFER. 2 IMPDET,

ue SECRET’
