roast)

Office Memorandum ° UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Exe) : File 7 DATE: 25° January 1952 |
FROM: . : ; . RETURNTOCIA) 2 0 7}
FRO: Morse Allen Background Use Only aie
SUBJECT: Kelly Casa : Do Not Reproduce |

; :

i

‘i : 2 .
sBonks HO. GS

sort of a th horse" typs but a typical Balkan politician. Ac~
_ cording our people discovered that French Intelligence
Service attempting to bribe Kelly and make him a double agent and

. & nuisance and they told our people to take him back. Since our

z

On Friday, 25 Janvary 1952, the writer was called to the office
of Mr. Bannerman for the purpose of a conference with one Mr.
EE/OPC, concerning the instant case. : ty

Mr. explained in substance the Kelly case as follows:
Kelly, (whose real name is Dimitrov), is a 29-year-old Bulgarian and

‘was the head of a small political party based in Greece and 4
working for Bulgarian independence. Kelly was described b
as being young, ambitious, bright (elementary college education’ >a

Kelly was looking with favor upon the French offers. sntordingly, 2 toe. }
plot was rigged in which Kelly was told he was going to be stein 5
and a3 a "protection", he was placed in custody of the Greek Police
who threw Kelly into a Greek prison. Kelly was held in the Greek pri~

- Son for six months until the Greek authorities decided that Kelly was

people were unable to dispose of Kelly in Greace, thay flew hin to
Panama where, through arrangement, ha was placed. in a U.S. Military
Hospital as a psychopathic patient. Kelly now has baen in the U.S..
military hospital for several months and the hospital authorities now ;
want to gat him out since he is causing considerable trouble, bothering.

_ other patients, etc. Kelly is not a psychopathic personality.

explained that they can dispose of Kelly by. the simple
process of sénding him to a friend of his in Caracas, Venezuela, and

as far'as they are concerned, that type of disposal is perfectly ok.
However, because of his confinement in a Greek prison and his stay in
a military hospital, Kelly has become vary hostile toward the United
States and our intelligence operations in particular. Hence, OPC is
-considering an "Artichoke" approach to Kelly to see Lf it would be
possible to re-orient Kelly favorably toward us. This operation, which
will necessarily involve the uv b ; considered by OPC ~

with a possibility that Dr/ carry out the
operation presumably at the m val Panamasi. Also in-
volved in this would be a interpreter who is a consultant
to this Agency since neithe a Bulgarian. |
; us :
' Mr. Bannerman pointed ont to! phat this type of operation
could only be carried out with the au ation of Security and that,

under no circumstances whatsoever, could anyone but an authorized M.D.
administer drags to any subject of this Agency of any type. Bannsrman
pointed out that there was a strong possibility that the military


»
_

: dow” : ae
e : this c
authorities wi not permit their hospital £0 be used for/type of work
and also that a’ re-conditioning operation this type might take as.

long as 30-602 Bannerman further pointed cat that rsce if : A
operation were carried on, Security wend have to be cognizant of it,
would have to be co-ordinated into the Ongandeebbon and would possibly
take over.and ran the operation themselves since this type of work

is one 24 which Security handles p> ane poy

. °,it was agreed between, Bannerman,- and the writer that a
conference would be laid on Monday afternoon when OPC representatives

ais an interprster return from Boston and their talc with
At which time, the angles would be explored and a dis-
patel we Lorwarded to our people in Panama directing.them to

find out whether the Army would permit such an operation ard whether ©

the Army would allow tha Agency to have the use of the necessary rocma,
medical facilities, etd. as would be required for this type of operation.

At this time,sit:-was alse to ba determined whether the disposal, of Kelly Gir.
Venesvela could in fact be laid on. :

Comment: : ; : i : c 7 s
: ot

/ . This p era: was mentioned in genéral terms to the
writer by Mr. proximately thirty days ago on an in-
* formal basis no sig: cant details wers given at this times

While the technique tha’ a. considering for use

in this cass is not known to the writer, the writer believes the approach ~
will be made through the standard narco-hypnosis technique. Re-conditioning
and re-orienting an individual in such a matter, in the opinion of-the
writer, cannot be accomplished easily and will require a great deal of

° time and the % fact that an interpreter is necessary in the case com-"" -
plicates it considerably more. It is also believed that with our present
knowledge, we would have no absolute guarantes that the subject in this
case would maintain a positive friendly attitude toward us even though
there is appare: a successful responses to the treatment. The writer
did not suggest. that perhaps a total. amnesia could ba created
by a series of electro shocks, but merely indicated that amnesia under
drugx treatments were not certain. : é

MORSE ALLEN

