# 104-10179-10121

## Page 1

104-10179-10121

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TELEGRAM IN ORMATION REP. RI| TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

$USJECT

SECRET

(MAST MUAS 18)

CUBA

NOFORN) CON

Marted D

Seralara: means

STATEMENTS OF MANOLA RAY,

EXILE LEADER

OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT

TONI

CONTROLS

sose returndREORT NO. TDOS - 3/490,978.

DATE DISTR

• 24 OCTOBER 1961

ROUTINE

PRECEDENCE

RiFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO

PLACE A

DATE ACO

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

IN 11257

[ENGLANO, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961)

FIELD REPORT NO.

OLL $ 30,995

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

"'SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS, AMONG EXILES

1a MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO

DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENÍ.) SAID IN

EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO, ANY INVASION OF CUBA

INSISTING THAT CASTROIS OVERTHROW WAS TO 55 ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL

RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2. THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED

BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT MAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33

TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION.

RAY ESTIMATED 8O. PERCENT OF POPULATION HERE DEPOSED TO CASTRO,

THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT AGIIVELY SO, HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT

PRESENT ENJOYED MORE. JUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

STATE

SECRET

ARMY/ACSI

NAVY

CLASSIFICATION → DISSEMINATIO CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

AIR

105 1 560

SECDEF| NSA

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM.

gOaN 1389

3/g0

---

