# 104-10221-10320

## Page 1

104-10221-10320

SEGNET

NH/COG 271-73

3 October 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR;

Office of Cenoral Counsel

ATTENTION

Mr. John S. Warner

SUBJECT

Quory from Dandel R. Schultz, Esq-

Concorning Watergato Defondant

Frank A. Sturgis

RE FERINCE

Lotter of 27 Septomber 1973 from

Attorney Schultz

Attachod is additional Infornation fron

Hoadquarters filos on the activities of Nr. Frank A

Sturgis In responso

to tho query of 27. Septombor 1973

Eroi Mr. Scurgis' attornoy, Dandol f. Schultz.

Orvillo

Batho

C/WI/ COG

DDO/WH/COG/OS/CHopkins: jw

Distribution:

OrIg.

1 • Addressee

DC/ KHID

1

2

-Originator

• WH / COG

• WH Registry

• Natergate File

@- Sturgis 201-2/2256

SEGRET

ES) IMONET CL Br. GE/SSS

---

## Page 2

3 October 1973

MEMORANDUM:

In Tesponso

to Dantel Schulta lotsor of

47: Soptember 197 roguosting clarification of

Frank A. Sturgls connoction or association with the

on Agency records wore again revlowed with the

Followind results'

Thero ts no vuldence chat Mr.

seurgis officially

participated in the bay of Pigs Invasion.

Attachod 1s

the copy of an article which appeared In

The Nashiasion

Rost on 14 May 1261

concorning columnist Jack Andorson

Intorvior of Frank Florint (Sturgls) in which Mr Sturgis

toils of his solo in the Bay of rise lavasion.

Any

activitles that Mr.

sturgis night have been ongagod in

concorning

the bay of Pies Invasion vere in no way

connected with or auchorizod by the ClA nor bas. CIA

knowlodgoaule of any such activitles. Also attached aro

articlos

by Jack Anderson which arpeared in Tho bashington

Post and The Flami Horald on 21. August 1932, In Tolacton

To Tr.

scurgis actlutiles against the Cubon governont,

and another articlo published in The Miand lorald on

16 septeabor 1963 which shows that Nr.

Sturgis vas acting

without authority of the u.s. coverunent

our flios indicato thot Mr. Sturgin war triondly

alich persons tho wore contacts or ngonts of ciA.

khile

Ni. Sturgls may have been

aware that those persons wore

tu somo bay associated

with ClA,

involved in any operations sponsored, approved or funded.

by chis Agoncy.

Most of

the Inforation on

Mr.

Sturgis avallable

to this Agency is containod in FSt soports conceruing his

numorous oxile activities.

Attachment to W/COG 271-73

DDO/WI/COG/OS/CHopkIns:ju

Distribution:

Orls: 81 - Audrosseo

1 - DC/ WIID

1

• Originacor

• NH/COC

1

• WIl Registiy

1 • Matergate File

---

## Page 3

SECRET

october 1973

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Frank FIORINI - STURGIS*

Following is information from further review of FIoriNi's

official file in response to DaniclE. Schultz' inquiry to

the Agency

dated 27 Septeaber 1973.

There are four volumes to FlORiNi's 201 fite, the.

majority of its content being reports from the fBl dated

from 1958 through April 1969.

Agoncy infornation includes a cable from Santiago de Cuba

dated i January 1959 stating FIORINI clains to, be chief of

26 July Arms buyer Miani and willing cooperate 100 percent.

in supplying info. Cable stated it possible FIORINI nay lose

value to robels but believe worthwhile CIA endorse his staying

on.

Igs CIA replied that FIORINT had been under FBI

investigation for possisle registration act violations and

base should deal with FIORINI under

strict

cover

and not make any connitnents which might later be construed

as USCOvT approval his activities. Mish to reiterate here...

that FIORINI was never enployed by the CIA.

The following is sorthy of note. FIORINI was involved

in Nov/Dec 61 leafles dropping flights over Cuba. The FBI

queried CIA about allegations that the flights by FlORINI and

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

Alexander RORE, Jf., were entirely supported by CIA with CIA

arranging Air/Sea rescuo, and that all of FIORiNI!s actions

were known to CIA Miami and his activities being done on CrA

instructions. Has CiA was satisfied allegations not true but

troubled in view fact FloRiNI was in contact with ciA rep

Florida who used name "Barker" who supposedly gave FlORINI

phonc number for ClA Miami office.

FIORINI was to call this

number if he was arrested or stopped on flights and CiA would

"got him out".

These Cuban overflights were not authorized

by CIA and the FBI was alerted to fact it was not CIA

operation. (BARKIR wis generally known in Miami Cuban exile

community as i ClA source.) Since BARKER was

a close friond

Of FIORINI, BARKER, shortly before the Bay of Pigs Invasion,

was asked by ClA to attempt to obtain fron FIORINI information

concerning FIORINI's activities. BARKER met with FIORINI

several times a mönth from fall of 61 to July 62: BARKER

insisted when queried by CIA case officer, that he never

revealed classified into or operational duta including oMWAVE

phone numbers to FIORINI. FIORINI told BARKER that the

leaflet op was conceived by Sergio ROJAS. A llas cable to

JWAVE dated. July 1962 stated that ROJAS had been non-operational

since Feb. 62.

secto Fire Ip line.

---

## Page 5

SECRST.

In response to Daniel E. Schultz! letter of 27 September 1973

requesting clarification of Frank A. Sturgis' connection or association

wich the CTA, Agency recorda were again reviewed with the following

results.

There 1e no eviderice that Mr. Sturgle officially participated

In the Bay of P188 Invasion. Attached to the copy of an article

whic appeared in The Washington Post on 14 May 1961 concerning

colunmiet Jack Anderson'& interviev of Frank Ptorini (Sturgis):

In witch Mr. Sturgla telle of his role in the Bay of Pigs invasion.

Any activities that Mr. Sturglo might have been engaged in In relation

to the Bay of Pigs Invasion was in no way connected with or authorized

by the CIA. Also attached are articles by Jack Anderson which appeared

In The Washington Post and The Mamt Herald on 21 August 1962, in

relation to Mt. Sturgis' activities against the Cuban government, and

another

article publlshed in The Mant Heralu on 16. September 1963

which

shows that Mr. Sturgls was acting without authority of the u.s.

Government•

Our files indicate that Mr. Sturgis was friendly with persons

who were contacts of CIA, While Mr. Sturgis may have béen aware chat

these persons were contacta of CIA, Mr. Sturgle was not invoived.

in operations sponsored, approved or funded hy this Agency.

Most of the Information on Mr. Sturgis available to this Agency

Is. contained in FBI reports concerning his nunerous exile activities.

---

