# 104-10181-10112

## Page 1

104-10181-10112

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

SECRET

144.9.

I September 1957

Depusy Clich, SiRS

Thru :

Chick, FIOB

Mf. D. Stevens

The OSWALD Case

SHAir, Clay L. 1102897-A

hot noed- all 'oo

jeripheral.

¡ecording to a lashington Star Clipping dated 2 March 1951

lay L. SHAW, who was arrcoted, indicicd and in awaitian trial a

conncction with the charge that he conspired with Lee Harvey OSWALD

and David i. FE.?PI[ to assassinate President KENNEDY, was described

by one Jesse CORE as a political liberal who was "very admiring" of

President KENNEDY. According to CORD, SiLl i "salied of voting for

KENNEDY in 1960' and wore a KENNEDY {0. President buiton. Jesse

CORE worked with SHAW in 1963 at tac Iniernational Trade Mart in

New Orleans.

Security indices reflect that one Jesse i. CORE, Chief Consil

with US in the American Embray la Madras, India, in 1950, was a

friend off

F20S:2 (c), a former CLA covert

was separated from the Agency in October 1952, following a

scrious security breach which involved a 1írs. Lillian BAXTER of

Calcutta, India who also was known to CO:S. Mrs. BAXTER who was

believed to be an American with Indian citizeaship, had formerly beer

married te an Anelo can ane play a d wat gid to far become

was believed to be controlled by Indian Intclligence and it was thought

¿at she might be an agent for any of severai governmeats including

England and Russia. She was an associate oil

and was suspecied of staling security accumenta from him.

There is lacufficient information rcga-din: Jesac CQRE, Clay

SHA :f's associate, to ponitively identify him asL

Friend,

Jesse 1. CORE, but it seems quite probable that they are the same.

031

is from New Orleans and it would appear that his friend CORE

1s also, in as much as he seems la all probability to be the husband of

a "N'rs. Jess CORE, nce: Lucy Ruggles, wio 23 of 1956 was said to be

married to a man in the State Department and io be somewtore overseas,

and as of 1957 was said to reside in New Oriczas, Louisiarce. This

12477

• .:

LITRA

- 261-813443

---

## Page 2

SECHET

MEs. Jeese CORE was one of a suspect political group, Dallas County

Voluricers for RAINEY, Which was of latcres: to the Securly Office

in 1956-1957 because of the fact that current ClA eployee, Michael

Charles PEARSON, 162901, and his Ladend, John Max NOSEVElTID.

821034, 'a former OSS man, " lad beca members. The organizatio.

which sumbered abour 25 perions moat of whom were said to bave Soea

formor studenis of the University of Texss from which Homer I. MiNaY.

= former liberal' presiders, had been diccharged, was of a libarall

radical persuasion. One member of the srosy (in which ita. Jesse CORE.

then Lucy RUGGLES, the daughter of William RUGGLIS, an citorial

writer on the Dallan Morrin, Nows, was particularly activo) la said

to have subsequently been aricated by the I2I for Communist sclividen

and several othera have been active in Communist organizations.

M. D. Stevens

MDS:mnl

207-81349-3

---

