# 104-10052-10279

## Page 1

1104-10052-10279)

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERMAL

USE OHLY

U

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

John H, waleten

c/sra/3

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

EXTENSION

5613

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

299

C/CI

2.

NO.

DATE

18 Dee. 1963 Far pol

COMMENTS (Numbor

roch comment lo show fram whor

to whom.

Draw a line ocross column after each comment.)

attacised for your in?aation,

cement, and corruction is the

oyal, mourasted version of

the ropeet on CHILOOR corsing

OSHALD'S Stay In Basico a 37-

claring uumarias of the telegions

Intarceytale

tals may be usel te

the zest of the mterial and to the

people more ins the final repert

In viting this us, I have saio.

certain commento and lannigad in a

contain enount e andysis, because

tha naisd facta ascued to call Ion

Ito These thougata are zy osa.

Feel Fred to snie Jou ons analysis.

I you have ssy corrections to ima

planse vito then on this drait and

20ta 14 t010. INIll 20129 1294

diast to zea 13 y0u vaat 15

This rogurt vas waltten for inters)

une only and una bot mant te to

used stated the Agency

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

ID USE PREVIOU

DITION

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SZORET

We Discover Loe OSWALD In Mexico City

CIA did produce one very significant piece of information on Lee

OSWALD before he shot Iresident Kennedy. On 1 Detoder 1963, our Mexico

City Station Intercepted a telephone call Lee OSHALO made ITOS sOmeplace

1n Mexico City to tbe soviet Imbasay there, using his ta zanes Speaking

broken Russian and using bis true base, CawilD was talking to the Babassy

Guard, OBYEDKOY, WaD often aneers the phone. DElAID said be had visited

the Enbassy the urevious Saturday (28 Septenber 1963) sad spoles to a

consul waose rame he had forgotten, and who had promised to send a tele-

gran for him to hashinston. Ee vasted to knos it there were "anythin

The suard said 11 the consul was dark it was (Telerly Vladstrovich)

KOSTIKOY The guard checked with soreone else and said that the bessage

had some out but no anever had been received.

He then hung up.

"is piece of Information zan produced from a talepione top centes

which ve operate Jointly with the

It

---

## Page 3

14-00000

It highly secrot and not icorn to

which are transcribed and revieved by our

sall staff In Hexico City. By 9 October, the OSHALD telephone comerya-

¿ion of 1 October had been transcribed and a sumary of 1t cabled to

Washingion, The pane Lee OSWALD weant nothing special to our bedeo

City Station, but in their report they did judge him to be an American

male.

Tos cabled report was recolved in Hashington on 9 October and checked

In our 11zoo, there it was imediately roted tant the lee OSWALD pooning

the Soviet Inbassy in Mexico Clty was probably the Lee DElAID wao bad

defected to the Soviet Union In 1959 ani retured to the USA In 1962.

10 October 1953, the day after the report from derico CIty, CIA Headquarters

sent out a cabled report about lee OSlAID's phone call to the sovlot

Imbassys the report went to the PAI, the Departzent of State (because

OSHALD Fas A US citizen), and to tha Havy Departsent (because be wes &

forer Varine.) The cabled report to these agencies highlighted the

SECHET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

11:11h00d that the Lee OSWALD mentioces vas probably too former defectos.

A copy of this same cable was delivered by hard to the Imitation an

¡etumlization service, with which we have no cabla linit toe sane day

& long cable vent out to Hartoo City Infornias our Station oi the baci

ground di defector lee OSWALD and askiny for none information Our Siation

ves Instructed to pass 1tu Infamation on the phone call to the Mexico

City offizes at the FBI, the Inbassy, the Maval Abtache, and the Imagna-

tIon are Fatzalizatlos Servica. Thia was done.

In 1t3 021z1oal Jezart Of 9 October, larico CIty heù said it bad a

photograsà of an apparent Anericen sale leaving the Soviet Embassy on

2. Cetobes 1963, the day OSHALD phone there. A very sensitive operation

In lextes City provides us with secretly talen photograyas of many but sot

all laltors to the sovlot sabassy there, taben with telephoto lenses.

Accoxinsty, so called the lary Dezartent on 2 October 1563 Rutay foi

= protosraph of lea OVALD Iron his lariDo Corpa days so we could coupert

photos. He had not received this photograph by 22 Rovesier 1903, but In

any evert, It turned out that the ran photostaphed outside the sorlet

3

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SEGIE I

Tabasay Has not CENALD aNyray. As chance would have it, FODe Of Our

several photo obsenation points in Maxico City had ever taken en lenil-

Slable picture of les OSHALD.

Our Mexico City Station very often produces intormatios 11ke this

on US citizens contacting Soviet bloc embasales in lexico City Frequently

the intoration ve set is extremely incrininating, and on ase or tuo

occasions ve have even been ablo to approben and raturn to toe Ush

Anerican military personnel who are attenptins to defect. In al] such

cases, our Feudguartars desk requeste and obtains the special peruission of

the Depoty Director for Plans to pars the deroiatory Inionation on a US

citizen to other Loverment agercles. Dereratory Intoration on Avericens

18 not treated routinolys in each case tha Da° of his Assietant persorally

scrutirlse the Inforation, nace sure it 1s credlble, and zecide whether and

to whon 1t will be passed. Only In absolute energercles is the Mexico City

Station authorized to pass such irlomation atrectly to the fBI offles In

the U.J. Embassy-

At this writing (13 Decamber 1963) ve do not inow whet action the fal

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SCENST)

and other agencios may hare tairen based on our report.

We sumise that the

IDI may have mue local checks throush Mexican authoritias to see It

Ice OSHALD was actually in Marico City on 1 October. Indeed, later In

vestisation has confirmad all the detalls of his triy, where he stayed,

ent ucat ho did. Is avold crossins lInes with the ll, our lexies Station

undertook no local investliation of 1ti dua. As ve Lou know, OSHAID 308t

rexico on 3 October and was no longer there when our report has put out..

• Since this

place.

22 Hoverber 1963

When ward of the shooting

0I Fresident Kennady resched the offIces

of our operating alviaions an staffs on the aftersoon of friday 2 Moves

tar 1963, translotor radioa vere turned on everywere to follow the

trazedy. When the hase of lee OSWALD una beard, the elfect was electric.

A phone nessage from the fil care at about the mone time, naming OsHAID

---

## Page 7

14-00000

2988000

as the possible assassin and assing for traces.

The bossary saa passed

on at once by the Chief CI, la. Angletos, to 1r. Blich O'leal of his

Special Investigations Unit. Mrs. letty Egeter of this Urit Imerliataly

rocognised the naze of Lee (SWALD and vent for his file. At the sane

time, las. Bustos of the Medico Dest, Who bar witten our first report on

OSWALD on 10 October recognized the nano fron jullo reports and went

arter the same file. Iti. Peichharlt, HerdeD Desi Chiel, who vas hove on

leare, heard the sews and phoned in a reninder that is had sonething on

OSWALD. While ve tore preparing a cable to lerico City asking then for

nore Infomation on OSWALD, Menico City itsel? heard OSWALD's some on the

foice of America bronicuat and cabled to us a rentries of the inforcation

the Station bad sert in on hin.

'Por the next week, a dozen people la the Agency vert continuously

DAqjed in handlina Isconiny pesenses on the case, writing reports to ba

cabled out, tracins the naves sentiored, and researching illes. Within a

weels, 27 cabled reports had sune out to tha Walte louse, the State Depart-

nant, and the fEI. lazy cables of suidance and isquiry had boen sent to

SESHET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

our overseas stations, and many piecos of inforation on OSKALD and bis

wife had been received back. The Mexico City Station researched Its

telephone taps very thoroughly and cane up with saveral nore conversations

probably involving O34ALD, but not actually bentloning this sane; these

connocted bin also to the Cusan Consulate In Mexico Clty Several Medicans

were arrested and questioned about his activities, giving a good picture

of what ho was really un to. lany conferences were held with the FBI

Iaison Dificer tho asted ua for certain actions and passed us Inforzation

fIve the Fil InvestIzation, la ibe ninta sido, a host of fabricators,

sOo anOnynoUs, boriberded overseas embassies with spucous tipa on the case,

ost of which ve investluated. All of these are soon discredited, but they

are still caning 1n.

burns this phase of our work, ve served primarily in suppert of

I'st, which was entrusted by the President with the enfor responsibility for

the Investlestion. The 3at was too busy to supply as with such of its

an inforsation, but anvers were siven to specific questions ve posed to

essist our investigation. The Departuent of Stata ald photograph Its enti

+

---

## Page 9

14-00000

file on OSYAID and pass they to us, and the Ill gave us a copy of tie

Soviet Consular IIla on OSkALD which lal been publicly siren by the Soviet

Arbassador to the Secrotary of State. On Ildry 6 Docenber 1963, Depaty

Attoney General Matzerbach Invised us to rerley the Fal's coarebensive

report on the case to mato sure ou' sources vere not jeopardized and that

o1 Information was comectly quoted. le found the report higbly

Interesting ant so threat to our secarity, as 100j as

It vas read only

by tha authorizei Investigatire bodles.

After the Ilest fey days, the CIA Investigation of the case

YES

haniled at cadquarters by a mall stair usually charges with investication

and analyals of the vost inportant security cases, and by a lea officera

and analysts of our festers Fendsphere D171a100.

Isposta 5500 fierico

As soon as orr faxico City Station realized that tee OSUAID vas the

prime suggest, 1t began re-doreening all the uritten telephone transcripta

In its tiles coreris the sovlet Imbassy for the pertinent period. the

actual tapes were also roriered, but sany of then had been erased after the

---

## Page 10

14-00000

noral two weeks wait. Several calls bellered

to InvOlTe OSWALD were

discorered and toeir contents cabled to Haubinston, whare they were

dissentinated to the White House, the State Depertent, the Feisral

Bureal of Inveatigation.

OSAID's pane was not actually sentioned 1n thesa additional callas

but sidlarity of speech anù various plats pointa of contont link them

to him. These calls ara sumarized below in chronolasical arter.

They cover the perlod fron 27 Septenber 1953 to 3 October 1963, the whole

STAY Of OSHALD's TIeld to Mexico Clty as later learned fron travel records.

27 September - A man phones the soviet Military Attacke and

says he neede a visa to so to odessa. Man answerina says he sheila coll

15-60-55 and sai for the Consul. Caller asts for the address, and 1t i0

siven to als. (there 15 no special reason for linking this call to OSHALD.)

37 optember, 4:05 24 - The Criban Conulate proved the sortet

Consulate. Silvla Duran, Mexican national clert of the Cubes Consulato

called to a soviet official, rayiny that a sale Averican citizen was at the

Cuban Consulate asking for a transit visa to pass through cuba on hia may

---

## Page 11

14-00000

to the Sorlet Union. She wants to know to ubon he tallood in the soviet

Consulate and who told hin he would lave no problen about 1t. II & soviet

visa 1s essured, the Cuban Conaulate can stant him a iranalt visa and

simply notify Cuben Immigration sutborities.

Tas Soviet FIrst asks ber

to wait, and then she has to explain the uhole thias over ajala to anotber

soviet officlal, who tases her telephone nuber and pxolõen to call her

back. Silvis DURAN concludes this call by telling the soviet she bezsel!

bas bored ard gives her sew adresa for the Soriet Enbassy bulletis.. Ea

asks her to phone (Sergey Eenenorich) KUKBARRIO (Second Secretary who puts

out the Ballotia) to give bia the new sidresa asd ha aska tho the Caban

Cultural Attache is. Silvla DUAN gives the Attache's rare as Teresa

PROSiZA and alls ber telephone mnder.

27 September, 4:26 IM - A Soriet offlalal calls Silva DUBAIV

bacis end tells her that the "Aserican" had been to see the sorlet's sna.

cham then a letter fron the Soviet Consulate 1n Hasslaston Indicatles tkat

he bad been salting for vleas for binsole and ils vire to so to the sortat

Union for a 1005 time, but that so ansver had cone iron lasaington, addina

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

that the walt was senetimes four or five months.

The "American" haR

shown the Soviets a letter showing ho vas a member of an organization in

favor

of Cuba and had claised tont the Cabans could not save bis a vlaa

vithout a Fugalan Via. SilVia DURA rejoing that they have the same

problen; the "American" 1a still at the Consulate; they cannot alre bin a

transli visa unleas he is asoured of & soviet visa, even thousa he just

wants to so to Caba to lait there for b1s sorios visa to he branted. le

does nor knit anyone in Cabe, They end the convertien on this note.

S11V's DURAY says that the will note this on his "card," and the soviet

conclades by saying, "Besides be 1u not known." le arcuses binsel?' for the

Inconvendence he bas caustil and SIlvia DIRAN says 1t 1s all Ilishto

28 September - Silvia DURAH calls the Sordet Iabasay fron ice

Caban Conaulato, She says thet sue kas the Averican with her sentn. The

Soviet answering aste her to walt. then inother Sorled takes un the phones

Silvia puts the American on. The Averican tries to talle Fussian to the

Sortet who ensters in Engliob. The Aerican as him to spea's fussian. The

Anerican says that he hai been in the forlet Babassy and spoken with the

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SEGRET.

Consul, and that they had taxen his cudress.

The Soviet roblles tbat be

knows that. the Anerican then says, screwhat eniratically: "I did not

know It then, I went to the Cuban Insesay to ask them for sy adirosa

because they have it." The Sovlet lovites hila to ston by agala and give

then the addresa, bol the American agrees to do so, (In this conversation,

the Anerican was speakins haraly recognizable fusaian.)

As far as our recoris spoil, OSWALD ald not phone the Soviet or Caban

Sabasales ajata until Juenday 1 October 1553. The Intervening days vero a

Sunday and a Monday. Toe contento of his later calls seen to sbon. he

11a not contect the Sovlets on those days.

1 October, 10:31 AM - A nan calls the Soriet lalitury Attache 1a

broken Russian ani says he hal been at tboir place the previous saturday

(23 septenter) asd talked to their Consul, They had said they woula send

a teloiron to lasadnaton, and ho wanted to kao 1i there were anythin, ben.

The Sovieta ask bin to call another phone number and Elves bls 15-60-55, sa7-

Ing to ask for a Consule

1 Cetober 10:45 An - (This is the phons call in vich OStAl

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SCORET

used his true nana and which maa therefore cabled to Hashington on 9

October 1963) Les OSHALD called the Sovlet Inbassy and announced his

ons reco, saying he had visited then the previous saturday and spoken

with a Conni, They had said they would sect a telegram to lashington,

and he wanted to know if there vere anything new. Be did not remember

the sage of the Consul.. The sorlot, uno was lubasay Elars OBIEDEDY

replied: "XO3IK0T; he 1a dark." OSAID replied: "Yes, my name 15

OSKALD." The soviet escused hiasel? for a ndauta and then sala they

hasn' received anythins yot. OSlAID asked li they bain't done anything

and the guard replied they had sent a request but that nothing had bsen

recoived 2s yet." ONWALD started to say:

"And whatsor", but the Sorlot

hung up.

3 October 196} - A nan sperisinz broken Spanisa at firat paù ther

Engllah pioned the loviet Mlltagy Attrose and asted about a visa. The

Attache's office referred his to the consulate, siving the namber 15-60-55.

The caller wrote it dovi. The attache official suraiged off anotkes

SEGRET

13

---

## Page 15

14-00000

question about whether the caller could get a viaa, ard the conversation

ended. (There 15 no special reason

to tie this in with OSWALD, tho 15 now

krom to have ro-entered the ll at laredo the sure day.)

Since the

the fitcrmation on Lea Child also case to the attention of

Prostient LOPEZ Intoos after 22 Horenber. Tue rest day, 23 Hovenber, be

colled It to

the attention oi our Chier of Station, tho tas already

parising feveriohly on the case. Sivilarly, the lexicans noticed the

involverent ol Cuben Consular employee Silvia DURAl, a Mexican netlonal.

0uz Station suggested that sha be arrested and Interrogatod about OsHALD.

The lextenn authoritles had the same idon and she and her huntara tere

arrested on 23 Hoveilber 1963, In the miest of a party at their hona.

the quests vero soon released but silva and her huacard vere questioned

and released on 25 lovember 1963.

311v1a'3 buskand, Horacio DURAY Havarro, an industrial designex,

said under police Intarrogation that when OSKALD was rared as

the assassin

---

## Page 16

14-00000

of President Kennedy, his vife bai recognized the rame sai recalled she

bad valied on OSHAID then he case to apply for a Cuban tranait visa;

be semembened sue had sals she dealt with the Soviet Consulata us well.

to Iind out wetber he had a soviet viss. Foracio DURAl recalled his wife

had Eulà OShALD becana angry sad aco had to call out the Cabai Conari,

EaSEDiO AZCUs, to quiet bin.

silvIa DUrAl told the sare story. She vas a lastiut sympathizer witt

Baba and had varked fos the Meadcan-tuban Institute of Cultural Elations.

she recalled OShAID well, described his accurataly, ralated how ha had

wanted a bican visa but could not get one without tha assurance of à sorlot

v198, end zenercered his tiff sith the Consul. She aluitted whe had phoned

the SoTtet Babusay about hit

'Te so total al the statements of Silvia DURAil and bor hustand was.

to confirm that OSAID mas in kaleo to set a Cubes visa so he could walt

In Cuba for bis Sovint visa, Ino Soviet Consular 1lla passed to the State

Depararent in Washington by the Soviet Fabesay confires a long exchanze

tetween first, ltrs. Harina OSHAID, and later ber bustard, and the sordet

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Consulate in Washington sbout thair raqueats for pernission to return to .

the Loviet Union. OSWALD wes still tritlns to the Soviets in Vashiaston

about this as late as 9 Lovencer 1963.

SIlVis DURAN vas arrestad Again On 27 Hoveaber and beld 2at11 29

Hovenber. She told ensenttally the see story over agniz.

Well placed sources within the Cuban Inbassy In bedco City stated

that ten Silva DUPAY vas releused iron pollos arrest the Ilrot time on

25 Moresber; abo was quite pleased with hersell.

She told ber colleagues

the saze story set out above, sainy only that the Maxion polico had

¿breatened to extradite har to the Indted States to confront Lee Farray

OSHALD-

The reaction withly the Cuban Broasay to the neus o? Frestlant

Kennedy's deata was restre. To date, there is soj erodible Inporation in

CIA files thich would appear to lint lee OSwALD with the Cuban zoverend

or the Cuban Intelligence serriga.

The ubole quencion of whether Les OSWALD had any secret comection

with the Spriets or Cubans in lexico canzot jot be ansiered, but cortale

parts aí the evidence indicate to the contrary. Silvia DURI anà the

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Soviet Consular africials spota ol hia as a mus vite "no Irlonia in Cuba"

on the one land, and as a man not "nova" in the Soviet Dabausy, on tha

othere The very openness of his visits and the phose calls speak against any

secret role. fis trip to lerico vas not Itsele a secrat notz be travaled

under his real sane or à close variant of 1t, lived openly 1n serican

hotels, and correaponied with the Borlets through the open nails abort

It when he got back to the US. lia trip to lesdoo sas apparently made

recessary berause 1t vas the searest Cuban diplonatic Installation wbene

he conld apply for a visa.

A perplexing aspect of OSHALD's trafficiang wità the Cubans and

Sovlots In lexico City 1s his assertion In his call of 23 Sapienber that he

ald not inca his address then he vas at the Sortet Consulata and came to

the cuban Consulato becsuse they bad it. It 1a hard to esplata just vat

he neart, but it should be renenbered that de vas talking in passian, =

languaço he could not nanajo, as that vhen ine cave to Mesico he vas in the

process ai moving from New Orleans to Texas. He may not have madorized

his new address in Tessa, whatever it was, and may not have been ablo to

SECRET

---

## Page 19

14-00000

220027

Jay hanüs on 1t when ha was in the Soviet Consulate they dry Ferraga

ho has carliar siven the addresa to SIlvia DURAI and wanted to lock it

up on ber card.

A particularly sinster aspect of OSYALD's dealings vita the Boriati

1n Mexico (1iy arises fron the lilthood that be set vith sortet Consul

Valeriy Martnirovich KOstIlO% In his 1 October phone call to the

Soriat Babesny, the guard Onenoy suggasts that the Consul CoWID had

talLod tO LUS KOSTISOY 11 he tas dart. OSWALD seens to agree vita tata,

but tha identification la very casual. In him 9 November lotter to the

Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSAID gives the name of the uan be dealt

with as "KITIN," but there 1s no person of that exact nace in the sovlet

Embassy in Mexico CIty, I03T1XOT Is accredital as e Consula- Attacho and

does actually do a lot oi consular vors, but bo 1s balloved to ba a

Borlet KGB DifICer, and It 11 ballaved that he works for Departeent 13 of

the KC3, the Department charsed with sabotage and assassinations. Tea

suspicion that HO3IIX0Y 10 a KGB Offices arOse fion his work babits,. and

his association with other KCB officers. It was bardened when It vas

---

## Page 20

14-00000

found toat he hamled a Soviet agent uno vas trained to do sabotaje

work and that he turred this agent over to another K03 officer who 13

definitely knows to waris for the 13th Departent. It 1s senerally true

12 KGS vor's that sabotajo asents are haniled only by I Department

officers.

Fabassy gurd Ivna Iranovich OBEDKOT 1B hinself bellered to ke s

KOB Ian fron previous assigments as a bodyguard and sunillant. But

unless sose direct evidence of Soviet complicity is Alscorered, It 11

most Iikely that OSWALD's dealing with KuB men OBYSDDY and KCSTIKOY 2a

nothing more than a sria coincidence, a coincidence due in part to the

Soret habit of placing intelligence wen 1a the Enbassies in p0s1t1cng

where they receire a large portion of the visions and phone callo. All

of the fiva consular officers in the soviet Babassy are knows or suspected.

Intelligence officers. Certainly it OSWALD bad been a soviet agent 1a

trainteg for an assasstration asslument or even for sabotage vork, the

soriots would have etopped him fron milng open visits and phone calls to

the fowlet Embassy ln Vexico after he trlad it a couple of times. Our

.....

---

## Page 21

14-00000

expertance in Mexico, studying the Soviet Intelligence service at close

range, indicates that they

do make sona mistares and are soretires Insecure

In their nethoda, but toat they do not persist in such glaring errons.

Sove Insight on the Cuben attitudo tesara the arrest of silvia DUrAl

and the Involvement of the Cuban Consulate In the OSHALD case can be

galsed Iron tro intarcapted phone calls eade betveen Cubaa Fresident

DavAldo DORIICOS and Caban AmbasaBdo to Mexico Joaquin HERMATUEZ Arras 0a

26 cHorember 1963, the day after S1lvlz DURAi was released from her first

arrest. At 09:40 AN that nornirg, Fresident DORTICOS phoned the Ambassador

fren Havana and asked hin several questions about a report which the

Ambassador had sent in on the arrest of 511v1a DURAN and the Lee OOHALD

case. To whole conversation is coalstent with the theory that OsHALD

nerely marted a visa. Ine Ambassador did nention the altercation vaica

OSWALD bad with Consul AZCUS, and he ways that l'exican zolice bruised

SILVIa DURAT's ama a LIttle shaldna ber to improse her vità tho importanco

of their questions. They bad asted her il she had been intimate with

OSWALD pod she bad denied 1t. President DORTICOS twice asked Ambassador

---

## Page 22

14-00000

IRRANEZ wether the Yodcan police had asked Silvia DURAN questiona

about "money," and the president apparently wanted to know whether the

Mexicans thought the Cubans had paid OSHAID noney. IRFAIDE? insisted

the Mexicana had not Offered SIlVia DURAN DOnAY, and DORRICOS BaYe

up trying to put acrosa his polat.. President DORTICOS Instructed

HERAlDEa to kees on questioning Silvia DaRli and to phose him baci.

At 7:39 PM that evening Anbassador ISRANDEZ did call Presidont

DORIICES bae's, saying ha bad questioned "that person" agala and abe has

nothing Dey to add. Fresidant DORTICOS returng to the issaa

of sheteer

"they has threatened her so that she bould male a statement that the

Consulate hon given soney to the manti"that Anerican." But Ambassalor

FEROADEZ pUrEIStS In EloUserstandins DORMICOS, ansHes 12 the nogative,

and sava: "Absolutaly rothlas vas given to hor." DORIICOS seema to give

us and the conversation dies out after a lew nore gereral remariss.

We do not know for sure what nue President DORTICOS press for Intera-

tou about Cuban vocey passed to OSWALD, but Muors vere current in Metico

and even, to understand, in the Usa, that OSWALD had returned iron texico

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SEGET

Clty with about $5,000. Perhapa DORMICOS as trying to leam wether

the Mexican police believed that the Cubans had f'inanced CHALI. In any

event, the Cuban Coverent seat the haxicans a stilt note of frotest

over the arrest and detention of silvla Durai, but the lexicana

rejectad the note.

---

