# 104-10181-10000

## Page 1

104-10181-10000

FRO"*

18. 18:68

#{DUESTER

ARIFILES

REQUESTER

03

CAVEN

=x7.°175÷9

SECRET

* 3t

=9-g

09•8

JATI

18409)3

21

CA-20

RUIZ

PEREZ

ARA, ALIASES

SECRET

R4=9)&

1J45

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

INDEX SEARCH AM 201 CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

NATI

IP DE COOPRIL ED.

191:196

HENSIN'S ADIES

4O. OF EETIRIOCES ORDERIS

pair. "roust pereas to

SEARCH INSTRUCTIONS (TO IPIIN)

Check

itese

In regent

SUBJECT OF INDEX SEARCH

GIVEN NAMES

ORESTES GUILLERMO •

208 NO. IF KNOBY

201-

OTHER APFORESYENG

DATA (Occuparion, CP seabershed, l. S.

DATE BE BIATH

FLACE OF BIRTH

M

RESULTS OF IP/INDEX SEARCH

NO RECOROS IDENTIFIABLE AITH SUBJECT

SUPRAME NOT FOUND IN FILES

INDEX RECORDS ATTACHED

THERE ARE

RE CORDS

ARE

FU'S THICH MAY PENTAIN TO

THE SUBJECT OF

THIS

SEARCH, THESE MAY DE

REVIEWED

IN IP/IN.

1B:C:3.

CONNECTS

REDLEST NO IDATE/TIME

976 OCT 21 PH Z: 36

1 362 1910s

SECRET

CITIRENSHIP

TRESIDENCE

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

THERE ARE OTHER INDICES THA: YOU SHOULD CONSIDER.

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES AND

201 CONSOLIDATION INSTRUCTIONS.

TO ORDER DOCUMENTS

• REVIE# INDEX RECORDS.

DRRA GREEN DIAGONAL LINE ACROSS ITENS YOU DO

ROF DANT.

1. FOGOARD TO SPIFILES.

TO EDIT THE INDEX RECORDS

ASTER AFCEIPS OF THE DOCUMENTS, EDIT THE INDEX RECORO

ACCORDIAS TO DOI 20-89.

• TO DESTRON INDEX RECORO: MARM THE INDEX RECORD WATI

• GREEN D, AND CITE THE REASON.

2. TO MAKE CORRECTIONSIADDITICHE: ENTER THE CHANGES ON

HE INDEX RECORO IN GREEN IVI

• FORARRO TO IPIRUS VIA YUIR RECCROS OFFICE

211393

201 CONSOLIDATION

INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

SIDE.

E.2. IMPOET C: 8Y, 007622 14-8-381

---

