# 104-10186-10208

## Page 1

104-10186-10208

ANTORI

PRERORT

INFORMATIONARERORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Tie morerin erotina laformation abortios the National Detento of the Unlod Statue mehis the montag of the Haptence Lows, Tille

1I, 080

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT Omar INU (allas "Oscar")

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CSC1-316/00507-65

4 February 1965

RETUAN TO CIA

Backaround Use Only

Do Nai Reproduce

C.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

1

CS-311/00115-64

(page 7)

8 July 1964:

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & Washington,

D.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 'IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION.

SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DEPININIVE

APPRAISAL DA CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report 18 one of a series containing personalit

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

t is requested that the addressees take no action on any o

he individuals montioned in the personality reports withou

firat checking with this Agency.

1.

Omar LNU, allas "Oscar,

Central America,

11 an "Departmento negprentice an Separtment)

of the Direccion General do Inteligencia

(General Directorate

of Intelligence - DGI.

He carries official credentials of

the Cuban Ministry of Interior.

Omar LYU resides at 54th Street,

No. 2119, Apartment No. 5, Habana, Cuba, and his telephone

number is

22-2892,

Omar LNU, & Cuban eitizen, was born in 1943 or 1944.

is five feet

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency

on Omar LNU, alias "Oscar."

reveal no identifiable information

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1

STATE

DIA

ARALY

REP

CINCLANT

NAVY

I AIR

I NSA

CINCSO #

T&NS

120K

231 2

(Norn: Field distribution indicaled By "''f'.)

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATIONtREPORT

MU/SA/EOB|L HE/S/R

15-2

LUIE

3 LE

L/HASKE

IX-2226 & LX-229p

NO PROJECT (AUNUGY 1)

CSCI- 316/00507 65

1I/SA/CL

IHLEAVE

TOTALINI/SA 8 (1), WE 1

BID/AN

(2), CI 1, RID 1

LIAIBON#

LET, R

19-5=1

---

