104-10183-10425) Seas
=H . . ‘ :

Fees : : E
Sie i RETURN TO CIA
te Background Use Only .
5 Bo Not Reproduce
: ayer — + 4 MESSAGE FORM +
TU7WH7 O non S ECR E T/RYBAT
i Sr y Q NO INDE. .
we TO Fite IN CS FILE NO.

= TSN Re (lO - 1b-1

0 ‘GodGamdQoxropananns angemtosnn SAVE,

fom. [DIRECTOR a

cons nee S prove, Pus, Abo, lors,

i ne TYP: Se AMASH of
REF: Bs hase (sor SENT Got 60x

.-L. . DEVELOPMEXT DESCRIBED REF CONVINCENG bnoor: THAT “ENTIRE Rech

GROUP, INSECURE AND THAT FURTHER CONTACT WITH KEY « -véMmERs or anor |

GONSTITUTES MENACE TO KUBARK OPS AGAINST PBRUMEN AS WELL AS TO SECURITY

KUBARK STAFF PERSONNEL WESTERN EUROPE. ae 3 7 af
2 UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES HQS DESIRE: Ss Tita’ T CONTAC? WITH KEY MEMBERS

POSSI. BLE, AXD MAY

SWAT X

OF GROUP BE ELIMINATED AS RAPIDLY
BE IN contact WITH INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS OF THE GROUP. on Ps:

INVOLVED IN AMLA ASH CONSPIRACY BE WARNED OF DANCER prnerr mn

ASSOCIATIONS AND DIRECTED TO RLIMINATE GoNiA
3. INDIVIDUALS IN

a :
ARE AMLASH/2, (USBNAFU/9.- (PARI: CONCUR TEE
PARI 1665, HOWEVER WISil NO FURTHER CONTACT AP?
4, THOUGH NOT A XEY MEMBER OF ANLASK G
“ASSOCIATED WITH GROUP MEMBERS, THUS “UQS CONCE!

COMATTED TO AMLASH GROUP AND

INDISCRETIONS, BELIEVE EXIAUS. TV Be

ol.
veruerten(Q@SPont/1 WILL 303

auaeasing onricea © 44 -,

a3a-t. Bt
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE 1SSU.NS

ras


t
one. MESSAGE FORM
Gat. vox is ECRET/RBAT |
ure NO IND
DATE: (CO Fie IN CS PRE NO.

me :
ws
from DIRECTOR
CONA, : INO
i PAGE TO

iad BO, ono 99. // is

AND FUTURE KUBARK ROLE.
5. FOLLOWING PERSONS THOUGH NOT KUBARK ASSETS, HAVE INTIM«IF

KNOWLEDGE AMLASH AFFAIRS AND SOME HAVE HAD AD HOC CONTACT WITH EUBARE

STAFFERS. THERE IS TO BE NO CONTACT WITH THEM IN THE FUTURE, TWIEY ARE

CITED BECAUSH THEY EITHER LIVE IN EUROPE OR HAVE THE MEANS TO TRAVEL TO

EUROPE.

G.

6.

IN

. LUCIANO (NIEVES) MESTRE, MAD!

victor (ESPINOSA), U.S.

RAPARL (GARCIA-PANGO), U.S.

POLLOWS)

JOSE LUIS (LLOVIO) ¥ MENENDEZ, 244

HERNAN (IERNANDEZ) LORA, SPAIN.

AMERICA (CISNEROS), PARIS.
LY CNLAGOLNG

Lb, NGLE

ADVISE ADDZES AS APPROPRIATE.

7. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES

STURE MEMB!

ncueasine orsiene

tees A Dien vt
4 SHOULD BE HANDLED LY CASE

REPRODUCTION SY HER THAN TAEISSUINS CANCE TS

NEWLY RECRUITED AGENTS [O BE EXPGS.D IN A ’

5 OF AMLASH GROLP. FL

EXDs:

£C



eer :
Bie Liar serenaieY an
Eee
see a MESS:.GH FORM.
net Qe LSECR ci
bi aay ONO wom
date CURSE IN C5 FRE NO.
me : te H
sem. DIRECTOR : sEEeeetasassast eeeereteetoeestees
CONF, NO
PAGE THREE
10 : FO caer DS

seueacine oneicce

REPRODUCTION SY O

=!
&

