104-10178-10163}

lal

ce ee BR ea eg

i lt Se ean ae ee afeape ON
i | |

H RETURN TO-CIA
7 , Onl
4 a Bacon es uce se

me Ortot, ne
: : 22, 13-16
“fae i fist of srartea, stare cveesy
het SRC emcee Operational
“| emo spas Tederoy MIEN
Pets foush-s.r2ceapee ‘as)

# Attached herewith subject's ptery of his part in tha escape - :
“et bad woven bodies asntioned ia Telerences Sport Prepared by RELGSRe *



Le

3

4
ey

4 Boas Telorey UIKTE C/,
7

Sabjact was born 26 October 1922 tn the village of Zeleaikeve, Plowtir, . -
Dalgaria. He was educated in a seminary in Sofia” and later taughtad

tha seninary in Sofia. From § May to 22 Decemmr 1950 he served ag @
Trodovas in Beamer, Jaabol districts from 22 Deceaber 1950 te 5 March 1952
ba waa om leave in felenikovoy frum $ March until 6 May 1952 bo again :
carved ae a Trudovak at the new airpert in Galclk. On 6 May be deserted
“Mts unit and escaped to Oreece. On 21 duns 1951 he surrendored to tha
Greck authorities, At the present tiae be is in « heligious inotitate

4a Athanse : :

fe eateariae a Ppomstieg hed difficultiss with the coomfuniet regins in

in Belgaria, Reis ibe Bae eee testes be, fie ze Me eeeers ee

aria, pr peerni Beamer as « Trudovek, he became acquainted sith
@ fellow Trudovak, Zirevks DAWJAMOV, who wae seekin, an opportunity te
escape to Turkey, Several other Trudovaks had tried to escape te Turkay
‘but were casght, In Mareh, when NALEIM was trensferred to Baleik, he
was bafrinnded by another Trodevak, Stefen PELISKUY, who wag planning to
escape to Greece with tho assistance of one Vasil LAAT, a YOO in the
9 Reziwnt in Plovdiv. .Since RAIXIN was unable to organise the flight
to Turkey be decided to join Stefan PRLTUXOY for Greece. Zdravko DAWJANOY
also joined this group.

feward the and eof April 1951, Stefan PELISEDY received a letter frou Vaetl -
ISZAN0¥, who told Stefan that he het found a guide for ursece ant edviced
hia te te in Plovdiv by 7 Kaye Stefan received a guit of clothes frea
LALAOY'S wife, Maria, cister of Stefen, and frea bis Uncle Borie b-5000
loves for the flight. :

RATKIa, DAMJAOY and PELTEXOV tried to desert on 2 May bat could not make
ite They succeeded in escaping on 6 May, walks to Varna, forty-four
Kilccaters, boarded a train in Varna and arrived witbent incident in Plow
en ? May hete LAtAw7 and his wifes, Maris, weitet for Stefan, LAZANOT tools
the group to a little forest near the village of Belestiou and left than
with the promise they gould be contacted the following night by one of his
senfideata with feod ant weapong, who wouli take further care of thems

“A eignel(whietling s certain song) waa arranged, bat the contact, Petur.

RIRGLOV, misunderstood the signal and the Trudewaks did not mest hin.

‘Yas following morning the Trudovake went te Plomiiy in sparch of LAZA5DV.
Thoy found LAZADV and also Boris PELTLECY, Stefeats uncle. The group

ert iunpttately for tha villaje of Marko to find Liza W's confident,
Potar MIRCIOY, Walking in separate greups, Borie PLLTLEDy and gdravke
DAMJaL? lost oontect with the othera and preceadsd along tomar the village
ef Branipele where they were later located by Anged KUSWIOV. Sareste

to Karkove, TAZABOV, his wife, Marta, and Stefan PLINY, net Potur KIMDIOY.


Ve

2.

posal we

The nigwade yunderetandin; was cleared up and Petur NIBOLOV took the Trodovaks
@ hideout near Markove, gave thea food, three riflos and yous acmuni tion.
Bere” they were Joined by Zdravko DAMJANOY, eacorted by Angel WOSTIDY,

On 9 Kay the Trudovaks were visited by one Ivan Todorov STOJANDY, who
expleiced the uss of the weapons ths7 had received. Tho sana ovening
the Trudovaks wore teken to Vols Hoyile stout twenty kileseters south of
Markove. Vasil LAZA:0Y and bis wife evaited thes. Pitur KISOLOV left
the group and returned te ais village ef Karkoves

LAZLADY and his wife spent the whole day of 10 Kay with the Trudovaks
trying to persuade thea se to go-to Greece, but instead te Join the
Gorjunt rebels for whoa be wes planning to orgahixe & nad croup in the
Plovdiv eres. 1AZA007 explained to the frudovake that he was unatle te
find a guide for Greece, The Trudevake refweed to join the Gorjani and
insisted that LAZADY keep hie promise and help them in their escspes
TLAZANDY promised again that he would look for a guide and left the
Trudovaks in Gola Mogiles

During 12, 12 and 13 May the Trudovaks sew no one, They lost faith in
LAZAROY and decided to go to Markovo ard send a missage to Stefan's father,
Potar POLIEDY, to mowt them the next day in Plovdiv, Borie MiLSID7 went
te Plevity on 14 Vey and ordered tee Trudovaks te return te dola Mogila
wherw be would bring tasn food.

On 16 May Ivan HIKOLO7, with one Ito GIU%Y, who formerly ratntained
Maleon between the rillace underground organizations and tho derjani rebels,
want to Gale Uogila, GIVOY offered to tuke the Trulovaka the waxt day to

8 Gerjunt group if they decided te join them, At tnis point the Srudovaks
haying lost all hope for escape: to Greace,and since they could not reaaia
indafirdtely in Gola Hogila, they agreed to Join ths Gorjani rebels.

fhe Prutevaks waited for GIUAOY for twe days and later learned that GIUROV
hid been arreoted, Gn 18 Hay tho Trutovaice wont to Varkevo whore they apeat
the might im the home of ens ef DAWJAHOT'S relatives.

“a X9 May RALKIH went buck to Gola Vogila, while DAUJAMOY and PELTEXOV went

te Plovdiv to find LAMY. This tino LUZAAY prosieed he would eurely find
thom » guides

tn 20 and 21 way tho Trotovaks spent in Cole bogita, and 22 May Petur
PELSEOY arrived at Gala Wo,<ile with the nows that Vasil LAZANOV had bees
arreated on 19 wey. On 23, 24 and 25 Bay the Trudovalts renainod in Gola
Bogila without any contact,

On 24 May Petur PELICZD7 returned to Gola Mogila ani told the Tradovake

ptis3



cat

1.

.-

shy

Eaton
‘pep Totorey MINIY

that LAZADI'S wife hed been arrested on 22 Nay. tte also told thea that o
lewyer fron Sofia, Stefan STRFAMLY, a frien c. his, planned to join the
Tridtovaks in their Might to reece, Lut since his friend's house was under
police curveillance, Petur did nut dare contact him in Plovdiv. Petur
pronieed the Trudovaks to find a guide either for Grvece er for the dorJania,
but undar no ciréwnstances should the Trudovaks leave Gola Mocila until he

or hig brother bed found a guides

Prea 26 Kay to & June the Trutovake remained ta Gola Mogila or its imusdiate
vicinity, The liaieon with friends and relatives vas maintained through

@ eienal(whigtling) which wae chanyed for every day by the person who brought
thr food, ‘ihe villagers in the area learned of the presence of the dasorters
and the police were alerted, Boris PELTEFDV and Petur MTXDLCY had planned
te hide ths Trudovaks in Ivan KIVOWY'S hone in Karkovo in order te
facilitate feeding th: deserters until @ guide bad been found for then, ©

On 7 June Boris PELTSXDY brouzht food and advised the Trudovaks to ge the
following night to Markors, Upon arrival there thoy learned that Petur
MINMOY was arrested ani released after two days on condition that hs would
wort: for the police and hand ever tho Trudovaks to tha Wilitia, The
Tridoteka were advised to return te Gola voytla where they would be Joinsd the
following day by the brethera WiLCLOY ord PELTSIOV,

Ga 8 Juno Ivan ant Potor XIZGLOY joined the Trudovaka on Gola Migila, and

on 9 duns Boris PELTAE0Y cam with food and the news that his brother, Patur,
did not consider the situation toe sericnse Stefan JALTUKOY cocided to

find bis fatter 1a Eranipole end perguade hia to join tho flisht, but because
of the Militia patrol no osald not reach hla, However, on 10 June Boris ond
Potur FRLTLIDY returned to Gola liegila,

“Qn 11 dune the croup elated toward Greace, The bender wag cropsed on 19 June

emt on 71 June they surrencere) to the Ureek authoritioas

Inforwent gives the following information en Vasil LAZASOVs ‘Se paw LaZanoy
for ths first tiae upon arrivsl in Plovdiv on 7 Usy 1551. Inveraant coualders
LAZALOV insincers, chan calle and without energy. Informant later learned
from Stefan PLS YCY that AZAD 7 had been 2 legiennaire in the past. After
‘the maybe joined the Communist Youth Organisation and waa secretary for
Gulturs and Propaganda, Later he joined the Pulgarian arsy and with the

“help ef sono relative was prowted to HO, While LAZAW.'S comradda in the

2 ectemnmmemnpmgpmen mieten oe

amg had ben com{satoned ea officers, TALAROY wag toli that he must firet
Accompliah acme ting for tha vesmunint Party. Stefan FLLTLYCY expreased the
opinion taat tury, the Tradovara, sight te the price asked of LAZAN07 for Ue
Prenotion, LYZADy reportetly had already ordore! his officer's uni for.

BRE

i

hae 7


Be
~be .

According to Stefan, LAZASOV played hie role a» agent provecateur, Also,
Petur and Boris PSLILXD/ eaii they doubted LAZA.OV'S Integrity and that

they would kill bin if he. returned to Sulgaria.

19. Regarding the brothers KIKOLOY, faformant etates that learned te know them
won arrival in the Ploriiv eros. Be regards the brothers 48 Ronsst,
” patriotic and energetic, He refutes tha possibility ef collaboration beteven
the police ani the MIKULOV brothers. They could very easily have turned
the Trudovaks over to the State Security.

Informant is convinced that Fetur and Boris rLezor are strong nationalists

a mente oer Per asgerecen a ne ales ie gh
Bo T ee: Lata vp until

wtrrogation at Drama, at which peint they started to defend him, Petur
gaia that LAzaa07 bed appropriated sons funis given te hin to be used for

2lg Informant had heart a Jot about the Gorjans, but never saw then, Boris
: PELTGICY told hia abost the Gerjani attack aguinst the villace of Fardinsndove
+, @0 22 May 1951. Informant states he sav a plane erutaing im the arva Jap.
gyvoral hours, but frem Gola Mogila he could not hoar any shooting because
ef the dfatencs,  . .

£

ee a :

. cote stateuante coincide completely with those betes by Edravko DUNJAROT.
The two of them hed plamwe’ tho escape together and since the desertion have
spout all their tino tegethars is :

Taformant fig of no cperational ues, since his only deairs is to leave Greece.
} In Greveo ha has becn taken caro of by an Alwens religious institution.
- He boa applied for U.S. calyration ani has already roceived the necessary
. affisavit, gpensored by the Orthdex Church in the U.S.

ea Nee}

Ye nav gs 105,
