104-10186-10132|
T

eae CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tle materia) enataina taformation sfecting the Mationsl Defvass of the United States within ths meaning of the Espionage Laue, THE
1 OBC, seca TID and THA, the tranaiieon of rrrelation of which le oy mienner to an unsuthertend person la prohibited by law.

'
|

! ‘SECRET

i : XO FOREIGN DISSEM
i

cobntY Cuba sepont NO, CSCI-316/04212-64
| SUMECT Rédolto or Radulfo PARE Peres ‘pare bisin. 16 September 1964 |
RETURN TO CIA : NO. PAGES 2 ae
Background Use Only 4 an
Do Nof Reproduca REFERENCES ee
i wo. 1964 ;

ae pace & Washington, D. C.
j OATEACG. September 1964 i FIELD REPORT NO.” pusdiias
: THis 1S UNEVALUATED _INTOKMATION, SOURCE O€ADINOS ABE OFFINITIVE APFRAIBAL OF CONTENT 19 TEMTARIVE
sourct: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964
i ‘

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

“It 4s requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentionéd in the personality reports without !
first checking with this Agency. :

1. Rodolfo or Radulfo. PAEZ Perez, pseudonym "Pelayo," is
the Chief of Personnel for the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate pf Intelligence ~ DGI). He also carries

a Ministry of the Interior carnet.

1 2. PAEZ, according to source, was born about 1936, is five
feet seven or eight inches tall, 170 pounds. He has black, wavy
hair, a white complexion, prick, fat lips, a thick, fat neck,
and large protruding eyes.12,3, 7

Headquarters Comments
1, An untested source, reported in a report dated 22 May 1962,
that Radulfo PAEZ Perez, THird Secretary of the Cuban a
Enbassy in Mexico City, is a member of the Cuban G-2. He
was scheduled to return to Cuba within the next two or
three months. >u

An in @ report dated 28 December 1962,

stated that Radalfo PAEZ Perez, Third Secretary of the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City, was suspected of being a Cuban
Intelligence officer and a code clerk trained by the Cubar G-2,

5
4
SECRET + 3
NO FORBIGN DISSEM oe

reed

ware oa aaa rae rm cr YOKX on 12

Tiere: Fiatd dicteibetion tndiconed by "#7)

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1



3.

a ee te

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEX CSCI-316/01212-64

PaSZ and Manuol.VERGA Perez were rgsponsible for setting up the new
“Committee in Defense of the Cuban Revolution." PAEZ' wife is
Teresa Pantaleom HERNANDEZ de Paes,

& report dated 23 January 1963, revealed that Radulfo PAEZ Perez
bad been replaced as Third Secretary of the Cuban’ Embassy in Mexico

City by Pedro LARA Munoz,
