# 104-10130-10472

## Page 1

104-10130-10472

• UNCLASSIFIED

PETERNAL

ONLY

J CONF' INTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

& SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Chief,

, Central Cover

Nonofficial Cover

Branc

1-A-20

TO:: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

Office of Security

(Attn: Mr. Bannerman)

G-E-31

"Gol. Convendo

" In. White

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

26 MAR 1863

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS.

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each comment fo show from whom

lo whom. Draw a. line across column after each comment.

auf.

2 Apr

R83

For your information

SE

гор. 7f sue mith.

Place-

trachenhunt file.

6.

7.

8

9.

10.

wither

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

60 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

it dear. 190:

CS-2793

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:

The lackenhut Corporation

3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard

Coral Gables, Florida

1. Mr. Bannerman, Security Office, arranged through Chief,

Chs for the writer to meet Mr. George, lackenhut, President of

subject, to explore its potential for cover support. At 10:30

a.II., On 14 Narch 1963, Mr. Wackenhut, Mr. Wes Reysolde, and I

met at Mr. Reynold'& home, 3809 37th Street, North, Arlington.

My. Reynolds apparently represents Wackenhut in the Washington

ares, although I did not gather that the firm is actually

operating here at present. Mr. lackenhut and Mr. Reynolds, both,

are ex-FBI agents.

2. Wackenhut started his firm in 1954. In 1961 it was

reported to have 1100 employees and anticipated 1962 sales 1n

excess of $5 m111101. At present It has offices in Miamf,

Coral Gables, tamps, Jacksonville, Philadelphie, New York City,

Boston, Buffalo, Denver, Los Angeles, San Jose (Cal1f.), Honolulu,

San Juan and Ponce, Puerto Rico. Wackenhut freely states that

he trades on the reputation of the fil by publlcizing widely the

21 ex-fIl agents, Including two former Assistant Directors of the

FEI, In his management.

3. The Operating Divisions of the company and their services

are described in & Wackenhut brochure as follows:

Investigative Division

Performs all types of livestigations for attorneys, Insurance

companies, banks and other businesses, sets up internal audit

systems to prevent embezzlements, and investigates personel back-

grounds of prospective executives, business partners and associates.

Scientifie Services Division

Conducts pre and post-employment, pre-promotional and speci

fic le detector examinations for business and Industry; speciel-

1zes In technieal securlty and Investigctive techniques, scientifie

detection devices, and electronie and mechanieal security methods

and equipment, and performs electronie "sweeps" to counter business

espionege through the detection of electronic Intrusion attempts.

(les)

---

## Page 3

=2 =

Internel Intelligence Division

Specializes in exposing and controlling Inside thefts that mey

range from emloyee pilferage, through embezzlement of thousands of

dollars, to highly valuable Industrial secrets.

Central Clearing Division

Assists personnel and security directors to sereen quickly

he backgrounds of present end potential emloyees through th

nessive files of The Hackenhut Corporation

Increases net profits by reducing inventory shortages through

me control of internal end external losses vith security program

lesigned to meet the cllent's specifle needs.

Training Services DivisiOn

Provides specialized training programs for security, fire

f1ghting, Investigative and other personnel of business orgeniza

thons and professional groups.

Industrial Security Division

Provides the essential security services that are reguired by

all companies seeking or handling goverment classified contracts;

assists management in disaster and emergency planning.

Fire and Safety Division

supples ambulence services, first ald crevs, lackenbut fire.

men fully trained in the technical field of Industrial and mni-

cipal fire fighting and equipment, and safety surveys, systems,

and educational programs.

Guard Forces Division

selects, investigates, trains and supervises the uniformed

and plain-clothes guards who protect your operations; also provides

uniforned receptionists and guardettes; makes physical property

surveys to determine security requirements and establishes security

systems and controls.

4. Hr.. Hackenhut wants to expand abroad, in view of his

successful venture into Fuerto Rico. However, he has no definite

plans as of the present and seemed to be seeking from CIA covert 24

sponsorship for entry into areas of Interest to us. He 1s pre-

pared to furnish personnel himself|

5. It ls not epparent to me that there is any significant

market for Wackenhut's services In foreign countries, except

possibly among American businesses with physical plante overseas.

The nature of these services, I vould presume, would make rather

difficult acquisition of the necessary occupational permite 1n

many countries.. The potential for clandestine Intelligence acti

vities would be too obvious to host governments, and the emphasts

2(RS

---

## Page 4

-3.

on former l'll personnel probably would enhance such suspicions,

particularly 1n Iatin Anerica where 'FBI" means "Intelligence'

since 1ts W II activities there.

6. CCS/IC on occasion receives requests for advice to bust-

ness organizations as to setting up security systems at overseas

Installations.

we recently referred a request of this type,

Involving a major oil conpany, to the Physical Security element of

the Security Office.

Conceivably, the Agency might make some

errangement to advise wacrenhut of such requests, providing our own

security Office 1s satisfied es to Hackenhut's competence. IHe 24

could then

I 11 desired, d

should his compery successfully

secure the contract.

T. Wackenhut said he would be willing to dispatch teams to

set up personal security systems for foreign chiefs of state

whom the Agency wants protected. He 1s amenable, In fact, to any

reasonable application of his capabilities to Agency problems.

He would be willing to negotiate financing in equitable propor

tions In the event an overt operation, set up at Agency behest,

were not financially self-susteining.

8. Hackenhut impressed me as & clean-out, energetic, ambitlous

young business man to ts obviously proud of what appears to be

& superior organization of 1ts type. He 18 Interestin profits,

but 1t 1s my Impression he 1s sincerely enger to do what he can to

assist the government and feels that CIA offers one possible oppor

-tunity. Incidentally, he appears somewhat younger in person then

1n the pictures appearing in the promotional material given the

writer.

9. Copies of this menorandum are being furnished those Agency

components which might have an interest in utilizing subject con

pany. Inquiries may be directed to the writer.

FRED R. YOUNGBLOOD

Chief, CCS/IC

E6d.03

"''"

(4R8)

---

