# 104-10013-10387

## Page 1

710410013-70387

SECRET/RYBAT

WH/COG 67-194

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ADDP

C/CI/R & A (Mr. Rocca)

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

: Garrison and The Kennedy Assassination

: CI/R & A Memorandum Dated 26 April 1967

1. In response to reference memorandum, WE/Cuban Operations

Group has endeavored to provide all available information on

individuals and organizations requested in paragraphs 5, 6 and

7 of reference.

Attachment 1 contains background information

and biographic data on individuals obtained from WH/COG and

JIAVE files.

Attachment » summarized the background informa-

tion and Agency association with the organizations listed in

paragraph 6 of reference:

2. WE/COG will continue to review all material that may.

contain Information pertinent to this subject and will forward

such information to CIR & A on a priority basis.

AC/WEL/COG

Attachment 1

Bio data on individuals

Attachment 2

Background sumnary of FRD, DRE,

INCA

---

## Page 2

13-00000.....

ATTACHMENT I TO WH/COG 67-194

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Attachnent 1

Sergio Vicente ARCACHA Smith (Enclosure 3 of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba

1. Traces on ARCACHA do not reflect the date he first

arrived in the U.S. However, he became the FRENTE REVOLU-

CIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD) delegate in New Orleans prior

to the Bay of Pigs invasion and continued in that poalblon

until the FID ceased to function. The IRD was the predecessor

of the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, and was organized and

supported by the Agency.

The organization was used as a

front for recruitment of Brigade 2506 for the Invasion.

During this perlod ARCACHA reported to the FRD headquafters

In Miant through a post office box in Coral Gables, and

roportedly mintained extensive relations with the New

Orleans IBI and Innigration offices.

Two of hia regular

FBI contacts were a Mr. De Bruce and the deceased Guy

Baniater.

ARCACHA was also one of the promoters of the

FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA, INC (FDC) which wis Incorporated

In New Orloans on 6 January 1961. This organtention vas

ostensibly created by several New Orleans buainess and

political figures, including the deceased former FBI agent,

Guy Banister, to collect money to aid Cubans in their

fight againat Coumunian.

According to the articles of

Incorporation, these donations vould also be used to support

the IRD and the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,

leas a percentage to be retained by the FDC. An lavest1-

sation conducted by a reliable Miami Station asset concluded

that the IDc ms organized strictly for the personal gain

of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of

ARCACHA •

The Investigation produced no evidence that any

Individual donations were ever solicited or received and

recommended that the funds of the Stevedores Union and the

booke of the New Orleans Exporters Company be investigated

for evidence of personal gain and possible evidence of

federal tax evasion, since both the president of the New

Orleans Exporters Company, Gerard I. Tunague, and the Chief

of New Orleans Stevedores

Unlon,

Alfred Chittenden, were

officlals of the FDC.

Approximately one nonth after the

IDc was created, strong critician from some prominent Cubans

put the organtation out of business.

3. Information in an immigration card reflects that

ARCACHA travelled to Caracas, Venezuela at an unspecified

date.

His address in Venezuela was HOTEL TUNA, Caracas,

and his U3 addrese was liated as 4523 Duppleases Street,

New Orleans. Presport No. 00433.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Bnckground information on the FDC and ARCACHA's

connection with the organization ms formided to the FBI

In CSCI-3/701, 414, dated 30 March 1961.

Other sources of

the move numery of Informition on ARCACHA Are; DBF-06955,

18 danuary 1961; DH-91769

I1 October 1961; DBF-98355, 18

October 1061: CSCI-316/-3737-65; and UFGA-929, 22 February

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Carlos BRINGUER (Enclosure @ of reference memorandum)

Carlos BRINGUER 18 a brother of Juan Felipe BRINGUER

Esposito, & former member of Brigade 2506 who was captured

during the invasion.

The personal history statement in

Juan BRINGUER'S 201

file states his brother Carlos, & lawyer

In Cuba, was 26 years old at the time of Juan's recruitment

in 1960.

-...-..-x.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Ird S. BUTLER (Par graph T (A) Of reference memorandum)

In January 1965 Subject's organisation (INCt), sponsored

the New Orleans appearence of Juanite Cario shortly Itter

her arrival in the US. INCA had a particular Interest In

Mas Coto since they distributed hundreds of tapes conti

Ing Mine C.STRO's declarations when she ms surfaced in

Mexico

A JIVAVE asset, who 1s Misa CASTRO'S businese mnager,

handed the planning and arrangements for the New Orlean

vialt with INCA officlals.

The only subuequent contact

between the WAVE asset and Edward BUllth occurred when

BOTLER as recently In Miant promoting the INCA film on

'CASTRO HITLER In HAVANA". See Attachment 2 for a summary

of the INCA organization.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

" Albert FOWLER (Paragraph 7(B) of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 15 July 1929, New Orleans, Loulsiana

1. Subjoct 1s Alberto Casinir FOVLER Perillalt, &

member of Brigade 2506 who was captured during the invasion

and returned to the US in the December 1962 prisoner

exchange.

FOlLER aparently returned to Cuba with his parents

during his early life and returned to the us to attend

Fe attended the Lenor School,

Lenox, Massachuetts, 1948-49; Loulslana State University

After his graduation fron IsU he returned to Cuba

and marrled Margarita Paulette Van der SCHUEREN, born 13

August 1933, Brussels, Belgun. FOWLER was Preaident of

the North American Sugar Company, Havana, from 1951 until -

he roturned to the US in November 1960 and enlisted in

Brigade 2506. At the time of his enlistment he gave lark

FOSTER, Cuban Refugee Center White House Representative,

and formor US Ambassador WIllIanD. PAULEY, As references.

Following his release from prison FOULE worked for the

BRAHMS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, Palm Beach, Florida, where his

father resides, and for BROOKS TRAVEL SERVICES, W. Palm

Beach, Florida, untll at least Iate 1964. He apparently

loat his US citizenship during his yearg of residence in

Cuba and immigration records indicate he applied for advance

parole status in November 1964 while he was still employed

1n W. Palu Beach.

He apparently returned to Loulsiana

sometime after that date.

FOWLER's mother lives In Coving

ton, Loutstan, and he has & sister who te rried to Fort

PIPES, Jr., member of a prominent New Orleans family.

iss..

---

## Page 8

3-00000

Emilio SANTANA (paragraph Y C of reference: memorandon)

POB: 7 580 1835, aT go katana / Cube 1037

1. Subject is probably identifiable with EmiLIo SANTANA

Galindo, who was recruited by JIHAVE in December 1960 as a

guide for an infiltration team.

SANTANA was paid a monthly

salary under provisions of his NOC until he was terminated

on 15 October 1963 when the ratline developed by the team

becane inoperable due to occupation of the target area by

Soviet technicians. Another compelling reson for SANTANA/s

termination stenned fron his untruthful reporting concerning

certain aspects of the team operations.

2. In an attempt to establish positive identification,

JMWAVE obtained a report from the Dade County. (Hiam)

Sherlft's office that an Emilio SANTANA (no matronynde)

born 6 July 1936 1n Cuba, was declared a fugitive trom

Louisiam on a federal warrant 22 December 1965, FBI Sheet

132287F, based on two counts of burglery in Louisiana.

He was arrested and booked by the Dade County Sheriff's

office on ? February 1966 and was presumably sent back to

Louisian -:

tine of his arrest SANTANA gave his

living in Mlamt.

Headquarters files indicate SANTANA 1S

separated from his "ife who apparently still resides at

the old Miami address. Since SANTANA'S date of birth varies

on vartous documents in his 201 file, the variation in blrth

date on his arrest sheet

not conelusive.

The fact he

did give his former addreas to the arresting offleers

indicates he is Emilio SANTANA Galindo. A 1962 lunigration

forn includes a photograph which could be obtained from

JWAVS for Identification purposes if this becomes necessary

Although JIWAVE has had no contact with SANTANA

sinco his termination, there is a note in Station f1les

dated 23 June 1964 that SANTANA used the Agency as bles

employer on an auto credit application.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

Carlos QUIROGA (Paragraph 7(C) of reference memorandum)

Subject to possibly identifiable with Carlos QUIROGA,

• former student at lousian State University who we a

candidate for the Agenoy Student Recruitment Program.

Involved recruitment of Cuban students in the US who would

return to Cuba as agents in place. SWAVE traces reflect

and until the middle of 1961 was an ardent CASTED supporter

and made ant.-us statemente.

There 1s no indication that a

Carlos QUIROGA was every employed by the Agency in any

capacity.

.. ..

---

## Page 10

13-00000

Julian BUZNEDO (Enclosure 8 of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 16 February 1940, Havana, Cuba

Subject 1s apparently 1dentiflable "1th Jullan BUANADO

Castellanos, who arrived in the US on 10 November 1960 and

enlisted in

Brigade 3506.

He was a civilian pilot In Cuba

and served on the invaston craft BARBARA J. BUZEDO was

captured and released in thepprisoner exchange. (There is no

Indication he was ever employed by the Agency, other than

his participation in the invasion.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

Gordon Duane NOVE (Enclosure 19 of reference memorandum)

There le no record of Subject in WH/Cuban Operation

Group I.es or LAVE 11LeB.

JWAVE cited the article

on NOVEL which appeared in the MIAMI HERALD On 26 Apr11

190%, which le avanable in call & A, and le in the process

o conducting an enhustive search for traces on the cover

organizations NOVKI, clained to operate for the Agency in

New Orleans.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

There le no record of Subject under either name in WH/COG

Or JIWAVE IIIeS.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

ATTACHMENT 2 TO WH/COG 67-194

---

## Page 14

13-00000

THE INFORMATION COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS, INC. (INCA)

1. INCA 1s an anti-Communlat propaganda organtzation

with headquarters In New Orleans, that dismeminates Engllah

and foreign language propaganda tapes and 11lms on a world-

wide basts, conducts public forum of an extremint

police nature, The or ten met and unde

apparently come frow walthy Hew Orleans Ilgures Including

Dr. Alton OCHSNER, of the OCHSNER CLINIC, and Willard E.

ROBERTSON. In recent years lunds have been supplied by the

SCHICK SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY.

An INCA letterhead listing all

the officers and officials has been requested fron WAVE,

which has had some casual correspondence with the organiza

tion concerning Hiss Juanita CASTRO.

There te no indieation of any Agency relationship

with INCA prior to January 1965 wen INCA sponsored 11ss

CASTRO's appearance In New Orleans.

At that time an Agency

asset who functioned as Miss CASTRO's buslness manager was

Involved with INCA officials in planning the New Orleans

visit where Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dinner

sponsored by INCA. The dinner, which was attended by civic

leaders and representatives of all news media, took place

shortly after Miss CASTRO's defection and there was

considerable interest in her appearance. INCA was particularly

interested since it had distributed hundreds of English

and Spanish language tapes containing her statements when

she was surfaced in Mexico. In October 1966 INCA again

requested that MIss CASTRO

appear as a guest speaker In

major American cities in connection with the release of

the INCA motion picture production "HITLER IN HAVANA".

Following varlous reviews of the film, claus decided

fIlm would probably becone controversia. and It would be

Inadvisable to permit MIss CASTRO to accept the Invitation.

BeCRUse of INCA's extremist political orientation, JiWAVE

has wanted to avoid any more Involvement between Miss CASTRO

and mica and the station asset, in his capesty as business

monger, has manged to prevent this.

There has been only

one casual contact between our asset

and Eard Burkut,

xecutive Vice President of INCA, since Mias CASTRO's 1965

New Orleans trip.

This took place recently when BUTLER was

In the area promoting the "HITLER IN HAVANA" 11lm.

According to JIWAVE, INCA officals have never

indicated in any way that they are aware of Agency control

and direction of Mies CASTRO or her buslness agent, and there

1s no Indication that INCA officiale have had any official

contact "1th Agency officers.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL (DRE)

(STUDENT REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORATE)

1. The DRE was conceived, created and funded by the

Agency in September 1960 and terminated in December 1966.

It was an outgrowth of the activist student group in Cuba

which fought against BATISTA and later against CASTRO.

Many Of the lenders came into exile around September 1960

and were subsequently tralned and infiltrated into Cuba

by the Agency in late 1960 where they operated by obtali

ing Intelligence setting up action teams, etc., up through

the Bay of Pigs invasion.

While the DRE

was initially set

up as a psych warfare outfit, the organization was given a

large amount of paramilitary aid in funds and material.

After the Bay of pigs, the DRE engaged in independent

military actions which declined at Agency direction and

because of a reduction in funds from late 1962 until ter

mination of the group.

Members were used through 1966 as

political action agents, for publishing propaganda which

was sent throughout the

Hemisphere, attending international

student meetings at Agency direction, and producing radio

programs and special propaganda campaigns.

2.

After the cutback in military operations, my

of the

best DRE members relocated in other areas. At

present there are delegations in most latin American coun-

tries which have mintained some contact "ith varlous

Agency stations over the years although the DRE 1s no

longer very active.

During the organization's 6 year

period of active existence DRE personnel were in contact

wIth several JWAVE staffers and outside contract agents.

However, from January 1965 through December 1966, contact

with DRE personnel was limited to two agents, Juan Manuel

SAlVat, the current Dis secretary Generad who e now

operating a bookstore in miami, florida, and fernando

GARCIA Chacon who was relocated in El Salvador.

---

## Page 16

13-00000

FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD)

(CUBAN DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY FRONT)

I. The FRD was created with Agency assistance,

guidance and financial support in May 1960 and consisted

of several antI- CASTRO grOupS.

The FRD was forned as a

political action, propaganda and military unit.

Initial

actions consisted of extensive radio and printed propaganda,

denonstrations, and trips throughout the Hemisphere to gain

support for the fight against CASTrO.

The IRD also functloned

as the front organization for recruiting the members of

the Bay of Pigs invasion force and carried out a massive

program of social assistance to Brigade 2506 menbers in

tralning camps and their families.

Although the FRD head-

quarters were based in Miami, delegates were assigned to

other areas which included New Orleans, Louisiana, Tampa,.

Florida, and Mexico City, to gather Intelligence and

coordinate Cuban refugee activities.

2.

In late 1960 or early 1961 the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

COUNCIL (CRC) was formed to coordinate and direct FRD

activitles and this group was headed by Agency and White

House sponsored Dr. Jose MIRO Cardona, nssisted by Manuel

ARTIME and Dr. Antonio VARONA.

Both the IRD and the CRC

continued to function until October 1961 when theIRD was

completely absorbed by the CRC in order to avold the confusion

resulting from duplication of personnel, actlvities und

funding.

The CRC also had direct access to President

Kennedy and top White House sides. Bacause of the magnitude

of the IRD and CRC operations and the Agency participation

In the activities and funding of the groups, a large number

of JWAVE and Headquarters were directly Involved with both

FRD and CRC personnel.

---

