ioe i0rze0a75) eu : ‘

ee : ‘STING AND. RECORD SHEET

Dade County Request for Agency Assistance
Regarding the Dedth of Johnny Roselli -

SUBZECT: (Optional) *

FROM: : : 7 EXTENSION | NO
Cee

Curtis R. Rivers

DATE

8 October 1976.

TO: (Officer designation, room number, ond
building)

OFFICER'S

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
INITIALS

to whom. Draw a fine ocrows column after each comment)

LM
C/SAG

2

2 [0 PES PS 7

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

freee

S10” CJ] secret = CJ conripenriaL «AL )unceassteien


8 October 1976 ; ipa
i : i

APPROVES: ran RELEASE 1993
CYA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROG

SUBJECT i? : Dade County Request for Agency Assistance
i Regarding the Death of Johnny Roselli

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

FROM 3 curtis R. Rivers

1. The following is provided for your information and
pertains to an assessment of the: information contained in |
Office of Security files relevant to the request from the
Dade County Sheriff's Office pursuant to their investigation cs He
of the death of Johnny Roselli. i

"2. The Dade County Sheriff's representatives requested ie
all Agency information pertaining to several Cuban nationals. an
A review of Office of Security indices in this regard dis-
Senna the following:

“a. Ramon Don Eestevez Dominquez--Office of
Security records were negative.

. b. Rolando Masferrer_Rojas--Covert..(36. 859)_ F
and overt (352 772) security files were located
regarding Rolando Arcadio Masferrer (Rojas), aka: a
Roland Rojas Masferrer, a Cuban citizen born q

- 12 January 1918 in Holguin, Cuba. Although
limited national agency checks were conducted on
Subject in January 1950, there is no indication
that Masferrer was ever "utilized. by the Agency.
He is a former Cuban senator and Cuban Communist

_ Party member. (expelled in 1945), a former com-
mander for Batista's private army, and firmly
anti-Castro. The two files contain numerous FBI
reports regarding his activities in connection
with an attempt to invade Cuba in 1960 and a
subsequent effort to invade Haiti in 1967.

- Masferrer and 75 of his followers were arrested
. in January 1967 in Marathon, Florida, while
preparing for the invasion of Haiti,

fs - E2 IMPDET
sory
SEGRET. CL BY 007472



~+blown apart by a bomb in-Florida. No further .

52

Masferrer claimed that his Haiti invasion -

plot was approved by the U. S. Government (varying H
‘between the CIA and the FBI as the approving fe _ oy
agency). While the CIA approval claim was untrue,
Agency concern, at the time, centered around the 2
possibility of unfavorable publicity and the
compromise of sources and methods if the Agency
was forced to disprave Masferrer's charges in

J court. A handwritten note in Masferrer's™file
revealed that he died in 1975 when his car was

details regarding his death were contained in. :
his subject files. Since Masferrer has never . ne
been affiliated with the Agency, despite his

Claims, it is believed that Dade County officials
. Should be referred to the FBI for information

regarding Masferrer. :

c, Luciana Nieves--Office of Security files
contain eevee eee eeEeE ce . information
regarding Luciano Nieves Mestre, date and place
of birth 6 October 1933, Santa Clara, Cuba,
Nieves was | On 4 February 1966 in’
Florida. It was developed that he was a Cuban
national who had been arrested, tried, and
sentenced to 20 years in Cuba for allegedly
being involved in an anti-Castro plot. He was .
released in March 1965 after serving approxi-

: ere he was of interest to the
.In August 1865 he entered the
Inited States ‘and in November 1965 was contacted

1
i
i
|
mately. 16 months of ‘his sentence and went to Heer if
by Directorate of Operations (DDO) representatives.
From November’ 1965 until approximately January
1966 he was of operational interest -to the DDO.
: It is noted that the DDO maintains a
201 £ile (201-788521) regarding Subject and it
is believed that the Office of Security would
have to defer any decision regarding the release
of information concerning Nieves to the DDO,


d. Jose de La Torriente--Security records
contain only sparse information provided by the
Domestic Contact Service in 1970 showing that
one Jose de La Torriente, not further identified,
claimed to have worked for the CIA for many

. years. An attachment to a 1970 Domestic Contact
Service memorandum containing details of Torriente's
claimed association with the Agency was not con-
tained in Office of Security files. It is
believed that a decision to release information :
“regarding Torriente would have to be deferred to fe
the DDO. : i 7 : / oe

e. Jose Quintana--Office .of Security records
contain no information identifiable with Jose
Quintana.

£. Jaoquin Antonio Cortizo--Office ‘of : eee oes
Security records.are negative.

g- _Manola Artimes--Security records contain
overt (611 523). and covert .(210. 838).. files
_regarding Manuel Francisco Artime-Buesa. Artime-
Buesa is a former Agency operational asset
utilized by the DDO during the approximate
period 1959-1963. Any decision regarding the
release of information regarding Artime-Buesa or
his present whereabouts should be deferred to the
DDO. : :

- h, AMLASH--Rolando Cubela (Secades), Agency
cryptonym--AMLASH, is the subject of the Office
‘of Security covert file 101 080... Cubela is a
rather celebrated Cuban national and operational
contact of the DDO mentioned throughout both of
the Senate Select Committee assassination reports.
Although Cubela is identified in the assassina-
tion reports as AMLASH and his identity has never an
been revealed by ‘the Agency, his true identity 7
has been surfaced in several recent news articles.
All information on Cubela in the possession of
the Office of Security would fall within the

>. . purview of the DDO, and it is believed that any

“*" ‘decision to release information pertaining to

i 3 :
“SECHET -



Cubela should be deferred to the Latin America ~ aint)
Division of the DDO, It should be. noted that

during their investigat

ion, Senate Select .

Committee staffers reviewed Cubela's raw files
from both the DDO and the Office of Security.

i. Dade County Sheriff's Office repre
sentatives requested the "names of the three

Cubans mentioned in the
It is believed that the
“tion should be deferred

Roselli testimony."
response to this ques-
to the Senate Select

Committee on Intelligence since the Office of
Security does not have access to the Roselli -

testimony.

3, Additionally, the Dade County Sheriff's Office repre-
sentatives ask for all Agency information pertaining to several
individuals of unknown citizenships, but believed to be U.S. ~

citizens. A review of the 0

ffice of Security indices in this

regard disclosed the following:

a. Fred Black--Office of Security records

revealed only newspaper

clippings contained in

the Robert G. Baker subject file (260 273)

showing that Fred B. Bl
with North American Avi

ack, Jr., a consultant
ation, was a close

friend and business associate of "Bobby" G.

Baker. Black was,menti

oned repeatedly in the

news media coverage of Senate investigations

of Baker in the early 1
citizenship is undeterm:
that he is aU. S. citi

960's, While Black's
ined, it is probable
zen. ; ;

b. Edward Morgan--A covert security file

(46:394) was located" re

garding Edward Pierpont

Morgan, date and place of birth 28 May 1913,
St, Louis, Missouri. Morgan, a U. S. citizen
and former FBI agent from 1941-1945, was
granted a Covert Security Clearance on 2 Feb-

ruary 1951 for use as a

with negotiations for the(

‘cut out‘ in connection ————> -



The Covert Security Clearance was amended and
approved in March 1951 to include Morgan's use

“in providing covert legal support for opera-

tions in the form of a "cut out", legal advice,
transmission of funds, and other assistance of 5
a legal nature in connection with DDO projects.
Since Subject may have been utilized by the DDO,

it is felt that any decision to release infor-
mation regarding Morgan should be deferred to

the DDO.

It is noted that while only the afore-
mentioned subject file exists regarding Morgan,
in his capacity.as Robert A._Maheu's personal
attorney, Morgan is mentioned sporadically in
the Maheu, Harvey, and Roselli files. In 1967
Maheu was interviewed and advised that he had °
briefed Morgan regarding the details of his 2
involvement in the Agency-~sponsored Castro
assassination plots. Morgan's current asso-
ciation with Maheu, professional and/or personal,
is unknown. Morgan is currently practicing law
in the District of Columbia law firm of Welch
and Morgan.

c, Joseph Shimon--No Office of Security
subject file exists regarding Joseph Shimon,
aka: Joseph Shiman. However, he is mentioned
in ‘the Johnny Roselli file as a personal friend
of Roselli. It is further noted in the Roselli
file that. Shimon knew Maheu, but the nature and
extent of their official/social relationship is
‘unknown, Shimon is described as a former
District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Depart-

‘ment (MPD) inspector who was discharged from the

D.C. MPD as a result of a conviction’ involving
wiretapping activities.

4. To date, no decision has been made as to the type and

form of response to be made to the Dade County Sheriff's Office -
request, Additionally, a formal request to the Office of



~ ae

i elo ane : i
Security has not been received. Office of Security files have
been searched and pertinent information reviewed: Pending a
decision as to what form the response, if any, will take, it
is recommended that the Office of Security files containing
information pertinent to the request be retained in a readily
available status and no further action be taken at this time.

Curtis R. Rivers

