# 104-10217-10140

## Page 1

104-10217-10140

UNCLASSIFIED

E CILY

ROUTING A

SUBJECT: 108600

Status of AlCAll-I Ransa

FROME

Wesley b.

Laybourne

Acting Chier,

NEL/ 00G

i often dripton

D/Cn1a8, a Diviz100

GWHI

3.

2

Bank!

Surtzelad

Genera, Swilgates

16 FieR

31

1.5

93:199

cog/SA/hakly

%.

10.

12.

18.

14.

13.

FORM

8-41

Patia six sign i-m

SECLET

• CONFIDERTIAO

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

L

---

## Page 2

14-00000

WH/COG 71-93

1 5 MAR 1971

NBHORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

: Status of ANCALL-1 Ransom Negotiation

1.

On 26 August 1970, $120, 000 ransom was

paid for the release of AlCALL1.

$70,000 of this

amount was paid by the Agency and ANCALL-l's wife

arranged to obtain the remaining $50,000 from

August Vanistendael, a prominent Belgian with high

level Vatican connections interested in AMCALL-1

who presumably provided the additional money. Al

though there was no firm commitment as to the exact

time ANCALL-l's release would be effected, AMECRU-1 .

anticipated his release within 60-90 days after

payment of the ransom.

2.

Although 6 months have now elapsed since

AMECRU-I delivered the money to the Cuban negotiator

In Paris, there was no way to determine the reason

for the delay in AlCALL-I's release until AMECRU-]

was able to return to Paris to discuss

with the GOC representative authorized to negotiate

the ransom cases.

Since AHECRU-] now resides in

Miami he is no longer able to maintain as close

contact with the Paris official as was the case when

he lived in Barcelona. However, he did arrange a

trip to Paris in January to discuss the status of

AlCALL-l and other ransom candidates with the COC

Estica

SatnaT

---

## Page 3

Г.

Sunsil

representative. While the talks were still in

progress, the

case officer in contact with

ANCRU- 1

wet with hin in Paris on 28 January.

Since

Station has consistently been advised to

trold any andacation of cas taterest senany ransom

case, other than AMSOUR-1, little concrete information

was obtained regarding ANCALL-l's status or the GOC

time table for his release.

After AMECRU-1 concluded

his Paris talks the early part of February he left

for Caracas where be is expected to remain until the

latter

part of March before returning to Miami.

Although

• full report on the results of his Paris

negotiations can not be obtained until he returns

to Miami, AMECRU-1 has been in touch with AMCALL-I's

wife and QUPILL-] the

asset handling the

AMSOUR-1 case.

Accoring to AlCALL-l's wife, AMECRUI

advised her the GOC representative in Paris indicated

the delay

in releasing AXCALL-1 was partially based

on the fear expressed by certain GOC officials of

AMCALL-l's potential leadership in exile movements

if he is

freed.

As a rebuttal to this Goc argument

AMECRU-1 wrote

a letter to Manuel Pineiro, the DGl

Director in Cuba, stating that ANCALl-I had no desire

or intention of engaging in political activities

after his release and wished to seek employment with

some European social research organization.

A letter

from August Vanistendael verifying ANCALL-l's intentions,

with assurance from Vanistendael that he would assist

in resettling AMCALL-] in Europe, was attached to

AHBCRU-1 letter to Pineiro.

The l

Icase officer

obtained copies of the AYECRU-1 letters to Pineiro

from QUPILL-l and forwarded them to Headguarters.

---

## Page 4

3

AHECRU-I also told AMCALL-l's wife that

the coc paris representatives onered are tra

the ransom money if the interested parties were

not satisfied with the current progress of the

case.

The ramifications involving any demand for

return of AlCALL-l's ransom and termination of any

further efforts to obtain his release are considerably

greater than was the case with AlPANICY whose entire

ransom was provided by the Agency.

In the case of

ANCALL-1, there would be no way to demand return of

our share of the ransom without exposing Agency

interest until such time as the Catholic

contributors

Indicate a desire to recover their $50,000 investment.

Not only did Vanistendael's letter fail to indicate

any concern in this respect, but clearly emphasized

his continuing deep interest in obtaining ANCALL-I'&

freedom.

AlCALL-l's wife is also insistent that bis

chance of being released not be endangered during

this precarious stage of the negotiation and that

any decision concerning return of the ransom be

determined by AMECRU-l's evaluation of GOC intent.

Although ANCALL-l's wife has always been discreet

and her relationship with the Agency cooperative and

above reproach, her understandable anxiety over ber

husband could lead to extreme resentment should any

attempt be made to recover the Agency's share of

the ransom at this juncture.

This would be particularly

true if the Catholic contributors show no alarm over

their investment or the present lack of progress made

in effecting ANCALL-l's release.

SEAT.

L

"::

---

## Page 5

# 5. 074771:8

Su..

4

Agency has little choice

has 11e erase tested at ea

RICATIatus can be etalled by asset 2.

our contact with ALECRU-1.

A age

Stered

tHi,

.?. ten.

---

