# 104-10170-10149

## Page 1

; 104-10170-10149

BERNET

1:4 AUG 1967

NELORANDUM

SUSJECT

3 Carsion lavastigallon of

Durald P. (or T.) NORTON

1. Ch 6 August 1967 no cero trion of laat the Vaacouves

(Cases) Cupa9 manias or coss could rus on lacerviow with ond

Donatio (or To) ViCETCH, 35 yesso old, who had made tie

folloting close.

Tant ha van a CLa man and that La 1933 ho

delvered 3159, 200 to Doriu SEruct isrtrandter

to cuba. (Corrent David, Senter now ecado

res a cilot livia, la dier Oslams. alet riet & loney

Asies C. Garrison bsa elatnted trot i Unal, wha

ono of a sirall grous of concatrator go reester.

minded lic Scoacelation of Presideat cenacise

lu priate Taoroops chocke save chou that thore

sea no asscebition betacon ILl/ul end tis Nacsey.)

Go That la 1992 Clay THan cave NORTCH an

attacue caso containly 5to, 3o) which derror der

(Corcoat! Thore 1o no evidence that lee lisavey

Carold sas la lienaco la 1903. Tiezels 20 evidence.

excort to annuncasted vord of a criminal me drug.

only pereca iadicrod by Carrison to chia on the ciarce

el conspring to dill crostiest dcarcajod

SECHET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

€o

Thet BOTTON recelrod sas) a monta zay

frona CLa sad liza do alço secsired Sanmes of $s, 003

sar she aco decerlaed in sus-garagesnl de chave, gad

Fó, 500 los that deserived in nus garagrays b.

That riCHTON roserted to za untionilied oll

complay olicial la Gilgary, iNcris, Cinada.

• Co

TUS! HORIO: lost Ms CE, Jou la licrender

1755 and was advised la ocule cara lu Collary.

a Lionia cre bader say la cilila s cooy al lo cullins of tis

Vancuarez san enntalalue the ariele lascin decesivede

forcier.

C/./D0/0 is also rententad lo seisi

lo try lo gei a 16-6

cogy sur us, cilien Independsaily or barosga lalacu.

allpertinent arency records lara been clected. There is

no ricar ofs Dorali 2. NORICH or tirad T. MONTON.

Thore is

¡» Do recoré di a DanalaNCiCi sio meichos suy al tho furcoing

The C/5/3C/C is also reguardes to colala asallablo duforasa-

1on from halion rogerding doRtois goreal chariterrad reculailos

lim bebraityo Decause Diatrict itorno, Cimigoy hao rende cuiriode

craçon 1ui Cho so dis L0l are interariat lo ale laccalcloa la scw

caaard, sseciaies do lialors simid podar-rejo li de roquested tuit no

troncace be arca to Garrioci er lis israssi:aller.

It 1o sergestes cice

allegativas lasi Cli ciglored disra

I: 35 roquested ibai a cisuci de au. da lue files. of V:1l/CCG 13

soe socier Gaujuet apears tereiu..

Annovant. irate.

DC/CI/244

1IBR

---

