# 104-10181-10192

## Page 1

104-10181-10192

CABLE SECRITADIAT DISSEMINATION

PRRSONIWET

P0Y.8121

ADVANCE COFT

_Issuro

JS-0r-r0

CLEMENTO MESSAGE

GROUP!

SECRET gee

(When Filied In)

REPRODUCTICA OF PH'S COPY FROMIBITED

asier to due morE 01 - 9129: 6 =

¿C ANDORIN TALS SEENBY

10

10

28

WH/C06 8

RID COPY

Fl, Fi/D4, CDC, DDP ADDP. CS/D0

55-2R RE I 022133Z AUG 68 CITE UMCOBRA 8498

cune

MADRID INFO DIRECTOR LA PAZ

TYPIC

wits

2ÃUS ÃUS IN IN 3507

ANTONIO CARLOS VECIANA BLANCH TOLD CUBAN

AFFAIRS OFFICE HERE I AUGUST IHAT ORESTES GUILLERMO RUIZ

PEREZ WHO MARRIED TO VECIANA COUSIN IS DISSATISFIED

WITH CASTRO REGIME AND COULD BE SUSCEPTIBLE TO RECRUIT MiG

A3

MENT NOW. VECIANA LEAVING U.S. 3 AUGUSI FOR BOLIVIA

P3

WHERE HE WILL SERVE WITH AID: VECIANA GAVE NO EXPLANATION

FOR HIS OPINIONS ON RUIZ TO CUBAN-AFFAIRS OFFICE WHO

•FI--

TOLD HIM TO REPORT DETAILS TO EMBASSY LA PAZ UPON ARRIVAL.

le seleps

2º REPORT MAY BE WITHOUI FOUNDATION SINCE VECIANA

¿FORMERLY AMSHALE-I) REPORTED ESSENTIALLY SAME INFO TO

CUBAN AFFAIRS OFFICE IN 1964. WHEN AMOTS FOLLOWED UP

REPORT WITH VECIANA FATHER AND WIFE, VECIANA COMPLAYNED

TO CUBAN AFFAIRS OFFICE. AT THAT TIME IT WAS ASCERTAINED THAT

NONE OF VECIANA FAMILY WERE IN TOUCH WITH RUIL WIFE. ALSO

VECIANA NOW AWARE RUIZ STATIONED MADRID BUI APPARENTLY

UNAWARE RUIZ POSITION AS RANKING

CUBAN DIPLOMAT THERE•

3. INDEX VECIANA TO 201-312966 AND

RUIZ TO

221-755296.

CS Co. i

1201-312966

SECRET

5-201-73514 SECRET

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

