# 104-10052-10130

## Page 1

11041005210130]

DISPATCH

TO

Chief, WHD

REFER;

Chief, SAS3. Chief of Station, WAVE

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Contact Report, M

TAMIL 9)

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARNED FOR INDEXINO

NO INDOXINE REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN SUOGE INDEXINO

PERIMEN LIZAMIL?

Attached herewith are contact reports of meetinga ilta Il TAMIL-91

on 17 and 29 July 1963.

willard & CURIIS

Attachnent:

Contact Report

Distribution:

2 - C/VD w/2/att

2 - C/SAS w/2/att

2 - COS WAVE w/2/att

3 - Filos

model how astonis

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

34 сшу 903

MOS FILE NUMBER

201 - 330173

03628

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Dais

* JoaPane

TOK

Reedes: -110 1-2 17 July 1963

MANES) SO CICS to 21

Jaly mo Barico ha: a 3 ndred : leting vit ASlImi ao

Ejercity Naciozei. and Withor Cumpo as 2100 hour bun 4 115 710 in

plage at 2103 mad: 3= in mi0 bind geno m2 thus stopped by tic commes

said, in Englisag

got in the caradadstasy -

me Mystery WaS OMi

call 0s 31s Reas

about Coso nones did 5:06:15% 31s minine said i

probabag be back in chat hali an hour line ca

saw Ester pass

mi 12380 spotted the duo pall ay do too corta

this 18

*:*.

Parker hed spoker with his

Sis mits;

the rond chartlus lo.

weir isin that rages

better pick i pointer

(with 11%

Darm lutel stere cao t inato rd: bord, 3-9)nas Cupod 02d at 2325 bean.

2197022101110

1390 Sion Shan? Dooying Heate Did 723

ado sayster out the detailos

Man 1o da

Ho reposins scan, kig adicical developerato:

in fisca:

70...

973

.,%.

Du pair ipal:

at sand to Arres

(3) - Esti

:B.2A

936.141441

04-242:07

is an ardes lee ate.

has at gie to tas

g 10.06 Wrass

Каста т пити труд СоРу

-;"".

•Cal: and

"SCOUTE KOT

"Dose" dad.

died

106329609

---

## Page 3

14-00000

G S00

(¿acacio).

(0)

(&)

(e)

(1)

Gus meticlatioso

15!1141.3.4100 tro21s obtainda consprints

ARU. cão saco thet shon no nao in lingue ho had trouble

wiid the cit:

to inticos

(in crepurso to a quastica as to no rould on tha rea :o

migão ba recrutabin bué tocari daro es

L6: C 14067 179628076

SOCO T160T 5165

San man de arran ofter - night bu aporcachace zeu,

mallenco eh instilio Doy (14 joy) e Alcoscado

At Mas 21112

20105 100% un a cincricial ano a:

199ar2

Him d do Sorrio in tho dis da mai

cank. 1 that no could bo Ic:

lanothis gowd ret,

estava the ste ar ter

1031773

-ing

23g8:

--36255 -00 do -116e7

matt

Na cala

(1.

on the fe-incestrad

ich

have

Th: 546 cf 210

no Mich sacras,

÷ 181

I Coaling

Toda

34.0

4226389

---

## Page 4

14-00000

(ç) IOtarned dis to I. (for zocum) a hanbili pus cut

b. Too Excocla Normal Aural de Senta Turous SorcuJa,

diese 10 Jina 1953, explaining that soncois corleatica

t: Fidel Cistro to act ac sponsor of this 1559-2963

(1)Ileurned ora a pornographds cartoen (for ratarn) dI

Iritabed by pro-castro elenanto in Tampico, Copy ace

El tacized.

fre) Tiltrado o:

ine Cuban Consulato, Carpico, roported tent

Ivich. CArDiON has a siater residing in Reynoss, Tau,

marvisa do an Amorican of lexicon descer, Luiss ray

Ec up to the bordor to visit her sister soou 02 hor

nother ney nake the trap - details noù ciscis

5. L-9reports that ho 1s

gambring meta 13 all to keip his eyes and cars open and 20: a0 cusstimo

ms thus be often sets only fragionts thile questions or dicorost eliciti

night fill in detil hu 1a extr zely rary lest he arowo ary supicios.

6a intlo he suract int vant to toss

engraving cribit on tre 20th

¿": Tampico and the subsequent calebastica ca

the 26th In Cluda: Neuro

felt that the Mexican covermont might think tao disruption nac enginesse?

by tho Castro Cubiro, tenselves, to don supicion cd the antidastsusce.

7. I-9'is rialid worried bout his securiuy and at it bo a to s

to taka every pratini precautice to protect nine He loves to :ri2

cuito a converant ior udst ini nèuds constant cacoragancas and choring-uge

To 10 Immaman: Sirlined to nus hansole on dus bad: quite ocuca and vasu

for a furthes pat iron nio case carice (chich B is almage quick to ced)e

Inis casacteristic ires cut a his conversation dice he suops and says,

"I did very rell he; dini, 12" or "Iao was a gust dan due I had,

masa't 142" on ltadilny idcus on handling suchand-such are probly clover,

So. For the serin at ann coon docided to laid holdsay mockinga a 313

02z m alrays at git:

Das jack un puint has bosn abendenod in faros ca

= nobile pick un

D-1n str:

at tho comor of Iniona and Molchor Ocargo

aù the proscribed non' ani 101 clovly to the stucco to Thiose end Cataboy

= then, without tar sini, wi: iork his voy bach dow the opposito cis 02

tho streat to Melino: Conco. i will cruiso by in his ca and mato to paol

Leeting

Ravenez

STORST

201-329609

---

