# 104-10192-10109

## Page 1

104-10192-10109

SET

SECRET

berlin mering

L7G 7529

17 Septcaber 1965

at.s

ACHOURS DATA AL COE

TYPIC

SOURCE: ANTOD-1 frOm ANDOG-1,

10 September 1085.

ANDOG-) received

the information from Maximo DELGADO Fromota.

RID: No index.

Group 1:

Excluded fron

Automatic Downgrading

und Declamelfication

Mian!

= Hano

1

00/C

16-10

1 - (SANTO DOMINGO

PAAT IDION

ПЯТИ А АПИНСТ

Rops:

1

goat Bund

1

State®

FBI

ISIS

Custons

Border Patrol

-. USCG

AS RI COPY

paDe

D01

000900500

SECRET

iS CUPY

14-300-1

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

• SOURCE, A Completely retiri

3- Uanaly reliabl

C. Fally pariallo.

DI PiA NeUelly Polionio.

die and gruesent.

uses of douseral honesy or loyally, regardians el their competence!

E: Not Foliable.

81 Mobbeil. fp carned pr percent

carplies to sinteriad ud inserie entig

•li Confumed by elle indosendent and reliable sources.

ai protisery trun. A: Ponsiniy erud d Donorial. Si Probabry

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

Butter" Disputed Ownership of tho VENUS,

• JURE: Boat

REPORT NO.

DATE OF REPORT

NO. PAGES

REFErENCES

I7 September 1965

CATE OF

3 Septe ber 1985

United States,

Minal

1010 Sept

bor 1065)

UPG- 7529

DO CONTENT IN TRITATIVE

SOURCE?

A young Cuban emigre who has been trained in information collection.

His bast reportios bas been accurato but luck depth.

Inforation 16 tita report was recolved from another Cuban

angro who la In touch with members of JURE.

Manuel. Ray Rivero,

leader of tbe Junta Revolucionaria Cubai

(JURS, Cuban Revoluttonry Junta), went to the VENUS, • 110-foot

boit which belongs to JURE, On 3 Sopte ber 1965 and maid that

ho ms taking posession of the boat. Maxico Delgado Frometa,

who was in charge of the vonnel during the absence of Jose

Ricardo Rabel Nunez, captain of the VINUS, refused to turn over

the boat to Kay, Alter a brief arguiont between the two,

Delando called a laryer.

2. Thor kry went to the VirUs he win accompanied by Alfredo Peror

Allon, • neiber of JUll; two lawyers, ono of whoa vas an

Amarican and one a Bpanish mponking un; and three young men

who Ray said would be the now crew of the boat..

AdO,Is Cobo and Pablo Fernandez Perer, members Of the VENUS®

crew, were prosent and supported Delgido's notions.

36233335

3.

Tho VENUS has been impounded by tho court pending a doctsion

to determine the logal onor of the bont.

It has beon moved

to the vicinity of the N. W. 12th Avenue bridge on tho ilant

River,

"cross from the herrill Stovens boat yards, where it is

warded by s deputy aboriff.

Field Comments:

1. Information on dissension within JURE,

and the dispute

etween Ray and Jose Ricardo Rabel Nunez over the ownership.

of. the vessel has been reported.

On 18 Aurust Rabel cald

that Ray had given up his efforts to take the boat because

he was unablo to pay $30,000 (U.S.) in back wages owed to

Rabol and the crew.

planned to take the VENUS to

CONFIDENTIAL

GHOUP I

Concil fans art ste

CONTROLLED DISSE

GISTRIBUTION

2799:

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSE

- 2=

UFG-7529

the Dominican Republic as soon as the repairs on the boat

were completed."

(CR. CSDB-312/0206G-G3,

CSDB-312/02110-65,

and CSDB-312/02129-65, all from the same source.?

TDCrDB-315/00539-65 dated 16 February 1965,

sour ", mentioned Rabel's plans to exliltrate his family

from Cuba, 00.3 September Rabol, Gilberto Fundora Alcazar

and Jose Miguel Ramos, members of the VENUS crew, left

Floridal for Cuba aboard a Boston Whales, FL-9201 F, one

ot two shalers from the VENUS, to oxtiltrate members of

thoir familles. Tho Miami Nows of 8 Septenbor reported

that the three mén had boon captured 1a Havana Province,

---

