104-10472-10087 oS

“SADC Io tee cous af cams wr cadeaioe ot pene
ten me cover sheet wf be dawered when the

COMMENTS,

explanation of meeting arrangements with
aY5 makes then any more secure than
ad guessed His apartment, his car,
the quiet of the evoningl Para 7 of
still obtains = RIS could have becoze
aware of thoir mestings & the clandestine
nature of tha meetings, Also, I question
the security of dropping her off at tHe «o
bus stop nearest her apartment. If thd RIS
has seen any of these contacts, the vdry
meeting arrangenents would serve to eqns
5.as an agent of Costille = no {normal
boy-girPelationship, 4f a social ond,
would go to these lengths unless ther
was a spouse {n the backgrounds it wo:
therefore have to be clandestine,

SDs a

(21 Red eases sf

we

°
Td ae he Lig Oar cee
° of The eh f eld| ©
ck Ok cence, , ee ia
99 Ue aye 7 ram
@ e
: !
ba ~
Soe ee peerrrrr i
ulpl 8 (refeen: ow


DISPATCH

Chief, O® =

Cesta coat Sil

t -
= Rub 274

OG. MICH. 57

GrHw]2937, 7 Septeaber 1959

1. Reference dispatch has just been received, and we would like to
bring you up to date on the it Pedattonshtps ae

a. Follow up tf During the evening of 4 Septesber,
Golub did not mention his previous proposal to have Subject of DIR
42521 teach Soviet diplomats English. Subject on one occasion
stated that she was planning to teach Englieh on Finnieh TV and
that it looked as if she would have a busy season teaching. Golub
did not pick this up, and the subject was not returned to, The entire
evening was quite uneventful, and it was spent talking about music,
(The Subject of 4IR 42521 will be dealt with by separate dispatch.)
Since that evening Golub has only phoned Coatille once and this was
on a business matter, Two Americans were in the Soviet Consulate at
thie time and were applying for Soviet vieas thru Golub, They hed pre=
viously been in the American Consulate inquiring about the possibility
of obtaining a Soviet visa in one or two days, Costille advised then =.
to go directly to Colub and make their request, which they did. Golub
phoned Costille to state that he would give then their visas es soon
as they wade advance Intourist reservations, When they did this, Golub
immediately gave thea the visas. Golub's and Costille's paths crossed
once again on 15 September during a Consular Corps lunch, This was a
fairly large gathering and Golub and Costille did not have much opportunity
to talk, However, Costille gave Golub two tickets to the forthcoming
Leonard Bernstein concert in Helsinki, as Colub had previously mentioned
to Costille how much he wanted to go. Golub appeared to be quite grate~
ful for the tickets, and then stated he wanted Costille and Subject of
DIR 42521 to cone back to his apartment soon to hear some more good
ausic, Mr, Jobanan Bein of the Ieraeli was standing near by, and Golub
extended the invitation to him and wife also, No date was set, However,
from 4 September to the present, Golub has not phoned Costille for lunch,
Which is a new. record for him, as heretofore he has called at least once
a week, He has either been too busy, his interest is waning as far as
Contille is concerned, or he 10, as Headquarters suggests, planning to

“turn Costille over to pomeone elses

b, Costddle contact with Viktor ZECAL“: If Golub ds planning to
turn Costille over to someone else, Zegal seams to be tha most obvious.
Zegal has had every. orportunity to date to start the contact, but he
has not picked up the ball yet, As we have mentioned previously,

Costille Zegal first at the latter's informal cocktail party. How
evar, ths invitation came through Golub. Zegal was friendly to Costille
bat not any more so than to the others at the party. At the second
meeting, @ Soviet Bubassy sponsored informal reception for the American
Eabassy, Zegal wes again polite to Costille but showed no undue interest
in him. On 7 September, both Zegal and Costille happened to be at the.
same sauna party given by a mmber of the Netherlands’ Rabassy. During
this party the conversation tumed to music, and Zegal mentioned that

he had a large American record collection but that records in Finland were
too expensive to buy, He asked Costille where he ordered his records and
if Costille would mind ordering some for him. Costille said he would be
glad to. egal happened to be at a amall luncheon on 10 Septexber given
again by a meaber of the Netherland's bmbassy, At this time Costille
loaned Zegal two racord catalogues from which he could make his selections,
Costille has heard nothing to date froa Zegal on this,

olf



CONTINUATION OF :
\ DISPATCH wore

€. Goludts possible departure from Helsinki: At the Consular
Corpa lunchecn on 15 September, Golub once again mentioned to Costille
that he would Like to be assigned to New York City and sven hinted
that be hac been offered the Job as Consul at the Soviet Consulate in
Kew York City. It 1s known that Golub is studying English in Helsinks
from a qualified Russtan-inglish language teacher. He also mentioned
that if assigned lo the unitea otates, he wo be given intensive
Language training in Moscow, Costille aleo asked hin if his wife hed
returned from Kescow as yet, He waved his hand as if in disgust and
stated that it was a pity but she was never coming back. This
“estrarcerect® from hie wife has never quite rung true to either Costille
Qror te(ANs. She'has never Liked the climate in Pinlend and hag been
rather dickly ever oince she han been heres It may be that she is
merely waiting for Golub's return to Mo: . rather than move back to
Helsinki, Golub has alao mentioned to possibility of his going
to New York and has hinted at his being aie cow by Decenbere

a, Golub contacts wath GRY5t ub has bevn seeing fk : Tat once
a week for their language lesson’?(A5/5 is learning Russian, and Colub
English. (Golub also ha: professional English teacher.) During these
sessions Golub has not once
which he derided Americans or’ has he made any cations opt (UN) 32 on
might be reporting on her contacts with nine ‘5 stated that sirice thie
date the pressure seems to be off.and that Golub fe never raised his
suspicions concerning her knowledge of Costille or the fact that the
American Babassy had become avare of Golub!s contact with (AK/59zGolub'e
conduct wi! '§ has still been above reproach and not one romantic
overture hss been made, Although they still discuss politics, art and
music, Golub seatiy has made an effort to keep away from extremely con-
troversial topics and has refrained from making his usual derogatory
comacnts about capitalies and the.U. S. When the relationship first
began, he did not he to bring up bneeas “rosare’ About three weeks

ABV S314

ago, Golub invited| jon are Fulbrighters here
and good frients of van (Geantent 4 Sunivereley) BSy5" roommate

(Iden BY, Zegal. and ae Makeyov" UYor a social evening in Golub's
apartment, Gol} time has wanted to meet Iden A, who is the

son of a Yuowal  iverment official now i the States.
Iden A is here doing research on his father's effect politics.

The evening wis epent in polite sonvereation, Lent drinking and dancing.

2. as far as wontect batrven Conti le and (U ans fe concerned, 1t has been
Kept at a minisum since her REDSKIN trip and she reported that she had met
Golub, There are no regularly scheduled mectings, the date and tine of the
next meeting being arranged at each previous meeting. Throughout the sumer,
mectings bave been held about one in avery three or four weeks. They have

on different nights of the week, On these meetings (E/5 comes
clone to Costille's apartment after 2000 hours, She takes a bus from the
Urdversity, weich ts in the central part of Helsinki, to Costille's, which
4s in a northern suburb)2Qz/5 aleo lives in the same suburb about 2 kilometers
fro Costille, Ske, therefore, would take the same bus to Costille's as
she would to her own apartment but would get off two stops later. After the
meetings, which usually last until about 2,00 hours, Costille drives her to
the bus stop nearest her apartment. Costille has never been to her apartments
At noting has any unusual activity been noted outside of Costille'e apartment
or nei 5%, For esergency contactJ(zy5 has been instructed to phone
Costilie at his apartaent from a public phone booth mentioning that she has
missed him, She never once has. identified herself on the phone. After the
phone call, she has sroceeded to a pre-designated spot in the sane suburban
area where Costille zeets her with his car, They then proceed to the outskirts
of tom, She is drepped off in thé same suburban area, The meetings have
usually lasted approximately 30 minutes. No surveillance has ever deen de
tectéd, Tnis has cely been done three or four tines. The sane procedure is
used when Costille wants to sdee}5 before the next scheduled: meetings
Costille has only phoné@{ar}5 tudce, and thie was in late May during the
REDSKIN debriefings. & 5 has been with Costille overtly only three tines

Oz

sv $30



CONTINUATION OF

o2! ey would be futile, Bven though liberal mind

DISPATCH
oe of ,
since KEV5 a: Aved in Finland inet Ganuary,] ‘The first occasion was in
reh at pal apartment. This was~the first tine Costille net

Se! eo (another Fulbright » and two Finnish students
clears there (Susgect (Ori) 3811, Para 2, line 2; and,Subject of OFKA
3914). The next time was in April when Costille took GEY5 out to dinner
and recruited her for the REISKIN trip, The third time was at a large
American sy reception in Septeuber for exchange students, Costille
talked with Es for about 5 minutes theres at

3.02Tis eiae us to the issue of Golub's motives and re tions re=
garding (AEJ5. By Golub's actions on 23 July, reported in{OFHA]A032, it
seemed he was on the way to a recruitment pitch. However, since that
date he has: eased off the. derogatory comments about, Americans completely
and seems to be satisfied in his meetings witn AEY5 in discussing art, susie
and non-controversial political topics, If he had any suspicions sbout, aes
before 23 July, he has not raised them oince in his conversations with hers 0%
lub must realize by. this tise that sn ou! erie: cold recruitment pitch to
B/5 in their discussions
has been critical of the Soviet system and has Scone defended capitalisn,
If ne is attenpting to get her involved in a romantic relationship whereby
he could exercise some emotional control, he has moved very slowly. As we
have stressed before, he has not made one romantic overture to her. If he
did, he would be most definitely rebuffed. We do not want to turn this
into a "Dear Abby* letter, but feel that Golub may be suffering from @
father complex. Golub and his wife have been unable to have children, and
he has mentioned that he would desporately like to. Whenever lie talke about
this he becoues noticeably distressed, Golub appears to be attracted to
younger people, This was the case with his former assistant in the Soviet
Consulate here, Mikhail Lyubimoy, who was a young, intelligent, cultured
Soviet. Golub frequently refers to Lyubimov mentioning how much he liked
him, what good friends they were, and how much he misses him, Golub's
ateraction Co gsys started when Lyubimov left, So given what we know about
Golub's personality, we do not think it too strange that he "likes her for

“2 her mind.” We admit. that if Golub pga the opportunity he would certainly

that his feelings are such toward(AEY5 that he would continue seeing e502
done after his operational. interest had died down. We have not. forgotten

act that’ Golub’ is a shrewd intelligence operator, From the outset of

Rite (AE/5—Golub contact, we instructed her to use extreme caution, that Golub

re than a Consul, and that behind this friendly and gregarious nature,
there was a calculating, diabolical individual, and that she should at all °
costs avoid letting herself be put in the position where she would be sus=
ceptible to any form of blackmail, She was told that above all she should
do nothing to indicate to Golub any contact, any American official.
Because of this we have refrained from givitf (E75 eny "requirenents" to
elicit from Golub believing thet sonality data would just come out
naturally, Wwe have never giv am any cannéd responses to political
questions that Golub might raise G2 ene that she was clever and well-read
enough to anaver on her ovn, We did not want to give Golub any impression

that she was being briefed on what to say and to ask.

4. In answer to para 3 of roference, Costille has never been to {AE/5's
apartaent and has never met her roomate, Identity B. Identity B was an
exchange student in the United States during the 1957-58 academic year.
Altnough@{AEY5 did not know the Foomte before, the arrangenents for sharing
the apartment ‘were made befdr' jelsinkiy {A575 in the fali of
1958 met another, Finnish exchange aeadent Stanford)wio was.a friend of
Identity B and. pot (4S}5 in touch with Identity B. Identity B did not mest
Golub until the evening des¢ribed in para l.d. moves Aas ASY5 ‘etated that
Iden B 18 very anti-fussian as sho was born in what 1s now Sortet Karelia
sod was forced to leave her home during the war. She has to 5 that if
sho was ever son out in the coapany of a Soviet shg would automatically lcse
many of her Finnish friends. She has often csutioné ABY5 about being seen

attempt a recruitment or some ass form of ebarrasment; but we al: elieve

3
2.
x, 2% out in the company of a Soviet diplomat too much. Identity B was extrenely

reluctant to attend the social function in Golub's apartment, but finally



i CONTNUATION OF e
a OWSPATCH

consented to go when she heard other Americans were going to be there, She
adaitted that she was curious to meet Goltb aleo, There are no Gtatioaor
HBFINCH traces on Identity Be iY-y

We agree with Heacyucctera that we do not have much to be gained
froa the continuation of thie contact. Our co: vr is pretty well filled
with bio data on Golub as it is, and if ke wishes to defect, which we doubt

t considerably, he won't need her help. Howsrer, wo feel that to have (AY ii

&,

coapletely pull a reversal and stop the contact would only arouse his
suspicions that she may be receiving instructions from some oyteide scurce,
8B Since Golub now has stopped his original provocative tone and
N the Soviet interest in Costille has slowed down, at least for the present,
C22. perhaps it would be better for (AKY5 to continue seaing Golub, as long as he
(3) does the inviting, until she leaves Helsinki, (Her stipend runs out in

January.) Since school is in fall swing her free time will be linited, and
she vill have more of an excuse to alow down hen contact with Golub,

) f, 2 - -
tithe ot

9 October 1959 oe
Distribution ateecie dote erfad ’ '
BrqeSR w/Idens usc. i
2 280
{i
| i
1H : |
il
i
i !

Upd

CTS |



oa
a \f a vie
“CONTINUATION OF : corre aes .
OISPATCH i ce |
oe AUG 27107 |
womtim ar (Gaerts.nasd) °° 06 iieeer ee

Hane addranes (307-8 Stanford vauisgs) |
fcrd, California
age 2h

Marrled 06
Sea of utolph Holst) Pidss
oo Kintster Jog 7 ae

IDEETITY Bs (aia ke Ranges pan Po) ae
Doss " oes Jasicina, Karelia, :

Bim | iG

cites

ws: ‘oho
fe Petia TET mi !

