CASE ANALYSIS

one :
wNane OF SUBJECT (Lee FILE NO.

oe 0-602744 :

ANALYSIS :
o> i

}_0-331697 - Current Supr. |

03 was granted Secret Contract Security Approvals in |

December 0, February 1963 and April 1965.

He was approved for a Secret continuing contact in 1962.

2

Iwas approved for a Visitor-No-Escort badge in
January 1966 and approved for use as a contractor's employee
in March 1966,

2 ob

It is noted that a reference o €ar1 L. Hayworth)-
0-435380, was security disapproved in December 1961 for use on

¢ classified Agency contract based on information disclosed that
0’ (Hayworth) had been recently arrested on a morals charge by the

fashington Metropolitan Police Department.

CHRIST, David Lamar - _0-43872 - Former Supr.

| Subject's former supervisor is a-former GS-16, Agéncy
H employee assigned to DDS&T/ORD. He EOD in 1950 and retired
su uctoper 1970.

David Christ was granted an ISA/Top Secret in December 1970
and an ISA/Secret in October 1972. He was approved for DCD use
in August 1971, valid through August 1976.

NOTE: The file contains the following flags of interest:

1. Cross Reference Sheet - 4 January 1971 with 0-607446/
Cuban Imprisonment of Agency Audio Technicians
2. Sealed Envelope to be opened only by eeeeeetee
officials.
3. Watergate File Review Le
J.

bE 0-368366 - Spo.
Subject's spouse is a current GS-07, DDO/SE employee who
entered on duty with this Agency in 1964. t N.D.

a.

Data in file indicates that is known as an
Agency employee to a number of intelligence services.

PATE 2
18 Aug 1975

ANALYST

ie]

Fore
ye72 VAYT use reevious corrtons. §

at

ie

j

py


CASE ANALYSIS

NAME OF SUBJECT (Last, Firat, Middie)

2

ANALYS 1S

i)
I- O-39145 - SOR

lis a former GS-14, DDO/EUR Agency employee who EOD

4

in 1950. 03
File contains a CIA VON A to Z flag sheet.

is the father of 0-390572. Eee
was approved for Contrac employment on
oper

at his. father's assigned station. His contract
was terminated in August 1967. It is believed that he returned
to the U.S, to attend college at Mar. Security
action reflects that in January 196: as charged
with possession of marijuana by Maryland State Police but was
not prosecuted, but placed on two years porbation.

|
|
i

|
0-602744
|

LONG, Richard Maxwell - 0-58365 - SOR

Long is a former GS-14, DDO/EUR, Agency employee who entered
on duty in August 1953 and retired in June 1973, NLD.

NOTE: File contains flag re CIA VON A to Z.

-_0-58830 - SOR
lis a former GS-13, DDO/AF, Agency employee who
EOD in March 1952 and retired in June 1974. NLD.

NOTE: File contains a flag re TET Offensive.

oaTE

18 Aug 1975

ANALYST

Page 2 of 2

Vel
