# 104-10074-10007

## Page 1

104-10074-10007

MASPORET

sauice: adao

5B2

oruation on polley

member

of the Cen

1n Pas

mhorld

LID

mmitteo of tho Tremnh Cornint Pist

amario the cotion telen br tar

& Loute

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

WAB

ind Dualog ou 7 Maren and a D

atrito

to you

300

t1mi

Hitl

montine for the merd

-Ste

th

laventsent

2947)₽

malnded in

te poss

"beg

ino

MICROFILI

EDEX

hone

NAY 6 - 1955

DATE 8 DEC 1952

1 ang. if?

RI CỚtY

24

REF FORd MILED

IN:

701-3141

101-53739

ENGLA

10446

Pittmai

---

## Page 2

00000-ĐL

ad

1r 9r 47064

1e3.d1

Brctein.

•cctrard.a

1411

?2:

fofire"

Uraud set

tanis. fr

Binceral

SIGLAU

C TH:18.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

COUNTRY

• Ilaly/Yugoslavio/Franco/at.31.01n/USA

SUBTSOT

1 Militan Zebaion tossel

ORIGIN

•(London] 151

DATE OF INFO 8 An stated:

DATS

# hay 15m 1917

0n 2+4-47

Itbat gocording to 10007

press reports of 25.8.47., FOSTER had loft Jugo lavin

84-$.4%

No, details were given regerding lo destination,

but the pread report mentioned that he had been accompanied

by the orate lander of the babe one scenade.

"A

stated that after the

Britiah Communiat Farty Congress:

toport dated 1.4.47 from Part In London, goveral important

and

Harrys out rt. At

the same time devornl Communist delegates

who had ben present at the wI Dir. Congross in Praguo, hud

gato, nà well as delegaton from creede;

Our source, however, does not know names of any

axcept those montloped.

"Several meetings were held at the Headquartera of the Central

committee of the french communat tarty at a que le teletier

tone of thaid mooting the Lo lowing were know to have beer

presents 11i1ten 7031

Rober tyREur, and

*

muon of what happenad at

observed, he ataton that the meeting was concerned with untting

of morld demooretlo foroon aralnat Internationgt reaction. In

this connection, the french cominist deadora are sald to have

very much regretted the diffloulty of bringing about the union

between the American Pederation of Labour, and the Congress of

Industrin! Organiantion in the j.s.lo

---

## Page 4

14-00000

"Jacquel

DUCLOS made a spoclal roport epiasialug

that thia vaa

one of the most important tasks to be caroled out by the Concuni aus

within the C.I.0.

"Dosidos the abovo, the question of Groion and Turkoy was diucussod,

notably the question of boyootilng of nor materiala sunt to those

"Finally,

the di cloront apenkora apose or tho rocessity of dorandl..:

the U SailoR by all possible means.

The above

according to our airce,

whith had

chlofa in Paria.

"we understand that all other detaila nbout FOSTER's

arrival and

departuro fron this counory have already buen passed

to you by!

T2U

---

