# 104-10422-10275

## Page 1

1104-1042-10275]

Antanio... Veceana

21.120/751!

11/ 606/021-77

MEMORINDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

FROM

SUBJECTS

Raymond A.

Warren

Chief, Latin America Division

Jack Anderson 20 January 1977 Column

Titled "CIA Tied to False Oswald Story"

B.

Identification of the Mr. X in the

Anderson Column

1.

The attached column, citing the testimony of a Mr. X,

alleges that a CIA agent tried to link Oswald to Cuban intelli

gence officers in Mexico.

There is, of course, no substance to

the column's

allegations.

The

column identifies the source as

Mr. A because of attempts on his lite, but subsequently gives

enough information on Mr. X to establish his identity.

According to the Anderson column, MT.x

was first met

by his CIA contact

in Havana before

relations with U.s./luba were

severed.

Mr. X had helped to organize bank accountants to emm-

bezzle Cuban

government funds to finance

anti-Castro causes.

Mr. I was reportedly recruited by a Morris Bishop (CIA contact),

to plan

an attempt on Castro's

life.

The plan was

to fire a

bazooka from

a nearby apartment building while Castro was deliver-

ing one of his marathon speeches.

According to the Anderson

colunn, the plot was discovered by Castro's police and Mr. *

escaped

to Miami. MI. X

also reportedly tried to assassinate

castro in Chile in 1971 in league with the Venezuelan Luis Posada

Carriles, who is now being detained in Caracas for the o October

Cubana airline bombing.

The Anderson column ends with

the report

that Mr.

X worked for ClA until 191s tor expenses,

but was paid

$253,000 in cash by Morris Bishop when he was terminated.

1717!

WARNING NOTICE

- SINSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 025251

LX-12:V

21-0/19.4

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

3.

From the above description of Mr. X, it is reasonably

i clear that it. dis

Antonio Carlos VECIANA Blanch (201-312960).

accountants

association

in December 1960 when he

asked the cOs, at that time

to help in an assassination plot against Castro. VUCIAMI assea

for visas for ten

relatives of the

four men assigned to kill Castro,

and

also requested four MI rifles with adapters for grenades plus

eight grenades.

The COS did not encourage VEClAN and subsequenily

checked with an Embassy officer who reported that VECIANA had made

similar "wild-eyed" proposals to him.

On 23 November 196l the

Miami News published a report of an unsuccessful attempt by Antonio

VECIANA to kill Castro.

VECIANA reportedly had

arranged to

assassinate Castro and

. Cuban President Osvaldo Dorticos on 5 October

in. Havana, but the bazooka he was using failed to fire.

4. There has been no Agency relationship with VECIANA.. A

POA, which was granted for his use in

para-military affairs in

January 1962, expired in November 1962.

VECIANA was born on

4 October 1935 in Havana.

He ivas a member of the People's Revo-

lutionary Movement,

an anti-Castro

group. in Cuba during 1900-61, and

was one of the founders

of Alpha-66.

A certified public accountant

by trade, VECIANA was with A.I.D: in La Paz in 1908-72. VECIANA

ivas

registered in ISR to the U.S.

Army in November 1962 and he

vas terminated without prejudice in July 1960.

On 23 July 1962

VECIANA was interviewed, at his request, by Mr. Harry Real trom

the DCD New York office.

VECIANA asked Real to arrange a meeting

with a senior CIA officer to discuss

Alpha-66's plans

to assassinate

Castro

and to request CIA's assistance (U.S. $100,000; 10,000 Cuban

pesos; 48 hand grenades).

There is

no indication that this request

was ever acted upon by CIA.

" 5.

In April 1966 a LA Division officer,

using

the alias John Livingston, met VECIANA

in New

York City:

The

meeting was arranged by a retired naval officer, James Cogswell,

who had

informed Chief,

WIl Division

that he had information of valuc

concerning Cuba.

When

- Tarrived

in New York City for the meeting,

he was introduced by Cogsiell to VECIANA. He immediately launched

a discussion of the Cuban political

situation

and noted his strong

feeling that the only solution was

the assassination of Castro.

Tadvised VECIANA that he was in no position to provide him with

assistance or encourage him in an assassination attempt and was only

interosted in gathering information which he thought was the purpose

VECIANA subsequently said that his roomnate felix

It was

clear to

i however

VECIANA was attempting to use: ZAbAlA poten-

tially to get Agency financial support for his organization.

SECRET

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SHC11

TCIANA.Su000sled thit 550

i can chose can man and to secret that me

would look inco the ZABALA matter and would probably arrange for

ZABALA to be

contacted in Puerto Rico.

6.

There is no indication in the file that any Agency officer

in contact with VECIANA ever used an alias Morris Bishop.

There is

no Morris Bishop listed in true name

in the DDO rolls.

never any contractual relationship with VECIANA and he was not

paid CIA funds.

7.

On 11 January 1977 a sanitized copy of VECIANA'S 201 file

was made available to staffers from the Senate Select Committee on

Intelligence.

31c.0d

Farcoad A. Warrog

Raymond

A. Warren

Attachment

DDO/C/LA/COG/OPS:NJDevine:js (9229) (21 January 1977)

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - ADDO

1 - LA/ COG/Chrono

- C/ LAD

Q - 201-312966

1

- hold

- ASST. TODCI

SEGRIT

---

## Page 4

13-00000

THE WASHINGTON POST

Wednewing, January 19.1977

Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

Mystery Witness in JFK Inquiry

i A mystery witness bas sworn to con-

anti-Castro forces might have

re.

how Kenredy would die. Then the rab

gressional investigators that & Central

cruited Oswald, a known, pro-Castro

ble rouser added knowingiy that Xen

Intelligence Agency agent introduced

activist to kill Kennedy.

nedy "knows he is a marked man."

him to Lee Harvey Oswald in Dallas

"The motive on this," state, the ma

Milteer later adraitted to the FBI

three months before Oswald gunned

rao, "wouid of course be the expecta-

that he had been in-Dallas in June.

down President Joan F. Keanedy.:

dion that aiter the President was

1903, but denied having any knowl-

• The witness, whom we have agreed

killed, Oswald would be caught or at

edge of the Kennedy assassination.

to identily oniy a Mir. X because of at-

least his identity ascertained; the law

Ho-vever, the incormant told the FBl

tempts of his life, is the founder of a

enforcement authoritias and the pub

that he asked bioteer aiter the saool.

• lic would then blame the assassination

Cuban

terrorist group

test worked

ing whether he had known about it in

on the Castro government; and the call

advance or bad merely been guessing.

closely with the ClA

The group held secret meetings at

for a forcetul overtbroy would be irre

"I don't do any guessing." replied Mi-

3126 Eoilandale in Dallas before the as

sistible."

teer.

sassination. Not long aiter Kennedy

But Hoover abruptly blocked this

But the most explosive devaiopmen

was shot, a Dallas deputy sberill was

line of inquiry by notilying toe War-

is Mr. X's statement toat he met Os

told by an informant that Oswaid had

ren Commission on Sept. 21, 1961, that

wald in the company of a ClA agent.

been associating with some Cubars at

the FBI had lecated ard identried

Congressional investigators questioned.

"3129 Harlendale."

Odio's callers, Ha named them as

the mystery witness closely on three

Loran Hail Iawrence Howard and

Mr. X's dramatic testimony: casts

separate occasions. They finally con-

new light on the story Sylvia Cdio,

William Seymour, all anti-Castroites.

cluded that "his credibility is strengtb-

daughter of a wealtay opconent of Cu-

Hoover even suggested that Odio could

ened by ice detaise provides consist-

have confused the names "Loran Hall"

ban Premier Fidel Castro, told to the

ent with what he told us before. Signit-

FBL Two ronths before the Kennedy

and "Leon Cswald."

icantly, he remains very strong on the

killing, she related, she was risited in

Now the congressional investigators

Oswald sighting."

her Dallas apartment by taree men

have uncovered evidence that all targe

The encounter occurred in i down-

who identifled themselves as frienda

denied visiting the. Odio apartment

town Dallas building, where Mr. X had

and that the FBI had obtained their

• of her father.

an appointment with his ClA contact

deniais before Hoover wrote his letter

The agent was accompanied by a man

One was introduced to her as "Leon

to the Warren Commission.

whom Mr. & later racognized as Ken-

Oswald." When she saw the picture la

The investigators bave alsu obtained

nedy's biller.

the newspapers of the man who had

the tape or a rascluating conversation,

"When he saw it wag Oswald that

shot Kennedy, she fainted from shocs

predicting two weeks in adwaace that

killed Kennedy,

It was the same Oswald, she was cer-

• the investigalors re

Kennedy would be shot "irom an oil-

ported in a confidential memo, "he

tin, who had visited her apartment.

ice buiding with a bigh-poweren ri-

Congressional

nearly ireated out, but he never said

investigators

have

fle." The prediction was made by the

anything."

now learned toat the late J. Edgar

late Josepb Milteer, & right-wing rab

The investigators tried to pin down.

•Hoover deliberately misted the war-

ble rouser, #eo also happenec to have

Mr. X. on how he could be sure that

ren Commission about Odio's mysteri-

close connections with anti-Castro

man was Oswald. Mr.. & replied, ac

ous visitors. She was such a persuasive

leaderg.

cording to the memo, that he had

• witness that the commission stall was

The conversation was taved on Nov.

learned "how to retain the character-

preparing to investigate her story

9, 1933, in Miami by an FBl informant

ics of a person; he had trainer himselt

thoroughly.

named Wille Somersett, who turned

to do that And if it wasn't Cowald, it

Stall members even speculated, ac-

the tape over to the FBI the next day.

was someone who was eractly like Ce.

cording to one internai memo, that the

Milteer is heard on the tape describing

wald, his exact double.

B15

---

