# 104-10171-10171

## Page 1

104-10171-10171

DATE."

TO

FROM

ACTION

INFO.

3 SEE FO

C1953.

wH 5

File IRD They!

JING

KT

16

207142 60

ROUTINE

IN 47935

T0cs3/ 449305

CITE

ib-T

INFO

20-

DID iTO EARINEXI HAVA GRY POUCH? CITE

3567

INTEL DYVCUR

C SATA SCURCE (SPOTH)

TIME FILED I41DL ICEGIN CONTINUED COPTIOL

[UEil27,526 ¿URAMEXICO/COSTA RICA DOT 29 ALGUST 6O PADA LAMILIAN

LONDON 2 SEPTENEER 60 SOUFCE

FROM "A WFI1

FLACED SOUFCE".

24-

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

IWOG COMMENT:

THE ATTRINIO TO PERTICN CE THIS CABLE HIS AUT BEEN DISCIMINATIO

CUPCIDE TOE AGENCY PENDIRA RILEASI BY THE ACTION UNIT.

"DES PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASEE ON:

RELEASING INO

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

LIAISON:

SiEnd-E-T

REPRODUCTION: BY OTHER THAN ISSÜING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM: INFORMATION REPURT (TELEGRAMI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

GASSIACATRON - DES

RAMA MON CONTROL

SECRET

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

REPORTNO, TDCS.

DATE DISTR

DATE CF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

iN 47÷35

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INACIMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENTIS TENTATIVI

SOURCH

Tyson Dipt sites is tail

1o GENERAL REPEAT GENERALS (AS LEADERS OF THE NATIONAL ACTION

PARTY (PANS GROUPS IN MEXICO ARE DISCUSSING OPENLY THE POSSIBILITY

id3e.

THAT A MILITARY COUP WILL TAXE PLACE ON 16 SEPTENBER•

(B) THE FRIGATE "ANTONIO MACEO" WITH

FULL CREW TOOK REFUGE IN

MIANI ON. 19. AUGUST; THIS ACCORDS WITH THE NAVY'S PLAN TO EVACUATE THEIR

PERSONNEL IN WARSHIPS•

(CS THERE IS PRESENTLY A DEEP DIVISION BETWEEN MEMBERS OF THE

CASTRO ARMY AND THE MILITIA. THE TOROD. INTEND TO EXPLOIT THIS

SITUATION IN THEIR FUTURE PLANS•.

2. FOROD. LEADERSHIP REPEAT FOROD. LEADERSHIPS CAS ALL THE

SECRET

STATI

• ARMY /ACSI

NAVY

CASSANCA TON - Dest

BONATION CONTROLS

TELEGRAM: INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM!

---

## Page 3

StEN

CLAISUICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SERNET

TOCS

47435

PAOR 2

EVIDENCE TROM WASHINGTON INDICATES THAT RECOMMENDATIONS HAVE BEEN

MADE FOR ALL ANTI-CASTRO REVOLUTIONARY LEADERS TO TRANSFER TO LATIN

AMERICA AND FROM THERE START ACTION AGAINST CASTRO.

(B) THE TOR.D. IS TRYING TO PERSUADE THE APPROPRIATE GOVT

1.

MINIUTRY TO GRANT VISAS TO THOSE CUBANS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD WHO

WISH TO COME TO NEXICO.

SC) THE FOR.D. HAS RECENTLY STRENGTHENED ITS LEADERSHIP BY

RECRUITING SARDINAS, A WELL KNOWN MEMBER OF NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF

ESTATE OWNERS AND FARMERS. SARDINAS IS EXPECTED IN MEXICO SHORTLY.

CDS OTHER FOR.D. LEADERS WERE EXPECTED IN MEXICO ON 20 AUGUST.

MANUEL ARTIME (LION, IS ALREADY IN MEXICO CITY.

3. FORODO PROPAGANDAS (A) THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE PROPAGANDA

ORGANIZATION CONTROLLED BY THE OR D. WILL FUNCTION IN MEXICO. IT IS

1:

PROPOSED THAT ONCE PRESIDENT MATEOS HAS MADE HIS FORTHCOMING SPEECH

IT WILL BE POSSIBLE TO INTENSIFY ACTION AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO, AND

: THAT THOUGH THE MEXICAN GOVT WILL NOT ATTACK CASTRO HIMSELF, YET IT

WILL NOT SUPPORT HIM. THIS, INETTECT, WOULD SIGNITY OPEN TOLER-

INSINCE OF THE ANTI-CASTRO CAUSE.

8B) A "UNIVERSITY" IS GIVING COURSES TO ANTI-COMINIST LEADERS IN

COSTA RICA: IN OTHER WORDS, IT IS PREPARING YOUNG DEMOCRATIC STUDENTS

TO BE LEADERS ON THEIR RETURN TO THEIR RESPECTIVE COUNTRIES®

40 FIELD DISSEM: STATE®

(END OF MESSAGE)

CASSITICATION -- DISSEMIRATION CONTROLS

---

