# 104-10066-10233

## Page 1

104-10066-10233

PRESESENCE

SECRET

03/251°

FRP: ,20

STAFF

ACTION: C/LA=8. (184) INFO: FILE, VR, DDO-4, C/CA-3, C/CIA, C/EPS/EG=2.

C/OG/DMS, C/PCS, C/SIA, C/SIA/FL, DIOGC-2, ODPD-D, OLE, SA/DO/RA

(31/W)

78 0792093

TOR:

PAGE

001

022235Z JUN 78

IN 0792093

36382

SECRET 022213Z JUN 78 STAFF

CITE|

36382

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTORDD NOT REPRODUCE

NIACT DIRECTOR

RETURN TO CIA

ple

WNINTEL RYBAT

REFS:

A.

B.

C.

DIRECTOR 233464

36376 0790149

TRECTOR 231858

REF A RECEIVED AFTER HSCA STAFFERS MAD ALREADY

CONDUCTED INTERVIEW WITH'WKSCARLET-3 ON MORNING OF 2 JUNE,

ACCORDING TO POLITICAL COUNSELLOR, INTERVIEW CONDUCTED IN

RE

CEPTION ROOM OF MILITARY PRISON: IN ADDITION TO STAFFERS

FONZI AND GONZALEZ AND W-3, INTERVIEW ATTENDED BY ARMY CAPTAIN

ON BEHALF OF PRISON AUTHORITIES.

2=

WHILE GENERALLY COOPERATIVE AT OUTSET OF INTERVIEN

WHEN QUESTIONED CONCERNING ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS AGAINST

PRIME MINISTER CASTRO, IWKSCARLET-3 TOLD ISCA REPS THAT HE

REFUSED TO ANSWER THE QUESTIONS AS HE WAS "TOO WELL TRAINED

AND DISCIPLINED".

3. EARLY IN AFTERNOON 2 JULY HSCA STAFFERS ALSO HELD

BRIEF SESSION WITH WKTANGO-1.

IT APPARENTLY WAS CORDIAL AND

WKTANGO-1 ADMITTED TO HAVING

CARRIED ORLANDO BOSCH'S (NOT

WKSCARLET-3'S AS RESPORETED REF B) ADDRESS BOOK WITH HIM TO

MIAMI DURING HIS RECENT TRIP.

ADDRESS BOOK WAS TURNED OVER

BYÍWKTANGO-1 TO CUSTOMS OFFICERS, AND HSCA STAFFERS

BROUGHT IT WITH THEM FOR RETURN TO BOSCH.

44.

WISH EMPHASIZE THAT ALL OF ABOVE OBTAINED VIA

POLITICAL COUNSELLOR,

TO WHOM HSCA STAFFERS ARE COURTEOUS

BUT QUITE RESERVED IN TERMS OF REPORTING DETAILS OF INTER

SECRET

6816

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 0792093

PAGE 002

TOR: 022235Z JUN 78

IN

0792093

36382

VIEW QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS OBTAINED. THEREFORE REPORTS

WHICH STATION RECEIVES VIA POLITICAL COUNSELLOR ARE UNDER

STANDABLY LACKING IN DETAIL, HSCA STAFFERS HAVE ONLY ONE

FURTHER INDIVIDUAL THEY ATTEMPTING TO INTERVIEW(ROGELIO

CISNEROS, ON WHOM THERE NO STATION TRACES AND PLAN DEPART

5.

CONSIDERING FACT INTERVIEWS THUS COMPLETED, WITH

NO APPARENT JEOPARDY OF OUR LIAISON OR SECURITY EQUITIES,

COS DOES NOT PLAN TO CONTACT STAFFERS FONZI AND GONZALES

FOR PURPOSES OF REITERATING GROUND RULES ON CONTACT WITH FORMER

RTACTION AGENTS•

BELIEVE, HOWEVER, HOS SHOULD RAISE THIS

ISSUE WITH HSCA CHIEF COUNSEL TO AVOID FURTHER INCIDENTS OF

THIS NATURE. EZ. IMPDET•

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

