104-10005-10046

y

29 July 196)

phone
1. Peraconversation this AM with Martin, he has no information
on Soviet: hunting clubs. He never belonged to one, and had been
hunting ony once in his life. His opinion was that it was not worth
my trouble to come see him in person and that anything else he might
say on the subject would be a "poor guess."

2. Bob Steele called about :1h45 to say a been
hit on the subject of hunting clubs, and could contribute ni .
At the age of 1 he had known a hunter, but that was the extent of his
knowledge of the sport. According to Bob, he added nothing further

except to express the opinion that a hunting club would not be connected
directly to a factory.

3. The manual of library acquisitions was reviewed and the only Nove
periodical relating to hunting ebsexved was "Okhota i Okhotnich'ye
Khozyaystvo" which is published monthly. The July 196) copy was acquired
from the Library Periodicals section. A Soviet book listing al1(?)
periodicals was checked and no publications were observed under the
sections which included "sport" and "hunting." Cy of article in "Surv of Sov
Pressf# relating to Turkmen squeeze on weapon illegalities obtained.

4. DERYABIN reports index for DR-2 and SR CE-2 series reviewed,
but no reports found relating to Soviet hunting clubs or related
subjects. Diayasin is ON LEAVE + Nor AVAIL AbLE,

5. Peter Bapusta reported that he received a four page repott
in Russian from his other contacts, and will give it to Serge Savitskiy
for translation (:1530). He wil! also write up what he learned from
ARTAMONOV and have the lct in to me by :0830 tomorrow.

6. MdREBYGd After calling Dan Bowanko of TSD, went to see him
at :15)0 and collected several Xerox copies of pertinent materials,
One original to be teturned. One detailed ram for obtaining hunting
license.

ca 31530
7. Called Libsary Intellofax,for info on run on hunting society.
They said no liklihood, but would check. No call back as of 11710, «

and I was at TSD most ofthat time.

8. Al Valpey called in AM on this. Huntley on leave, and Valpey
had no idea who else might have info. Puggested Intellofax.

