# 104-10122-10301

## Page 1

104-10122-103011-

Mr. Coffey:

I have not logged the

enclosed paper.

Miriam 1/21

IWC

---

## Page 2

BERNAL

9:24

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEST

ENTIAL

•SECRET

FROM:

EITENSION

Howard 1. Osborn

rector

Secur

4E-60 Hos

10779

budies?

COMMENTS INa

V2 Dran"

CECEVED: CONVAREN

Deputy

Thrector for Support

2.

I0.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

610

USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

EYES TIMIY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

EYES CALY

SECRET

20 January 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR. Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

• Robert A. Maheu and Associates

1. This memorandum is for your information and contains

a recommendation for your approval in paragraph 5.

2 Various components of the Agency have utilised Robert

A.. Maheu and his private enterprises since 1954. You were briefed

in 1966 on the various Agency projects with which Maheu was

associated in connection with his proposed appearance before

Senator Long's committee which was investigating wiretapping at

that time. You will recall that the Agency intervened with Senator

Long and arranged that Maheu would not be called to testify. In

July 1966, you directed that one cover arrangement, then in effect

in Maheu's Washiagton office, was to be phased out and that Maheu

was not to be used by the Agency in any capacity at any time in the

future. As a result,

"flags" were placed in Security files to the

effect that any inquiries concerning Maheu or his firm were to be

referred to the Deputy Director of Security.

3. The Central Cover Staff of the Clandestine Services

-

requested and obtained security clearances to une Maheu and

Associates to

from 1 August

1968 through 31 December 1970. The agent has now returned to

Washington and has resigned from Maheu and Associates as it was

considered unwise to continue further cover arrangements because

of the adverse publicity Maheu had received in Las Vegas as a

result of his court battles with executives of the Hughes Tool Company.

Despite repeated reminders, Maheu and Associates have not billed

SECRET

BIOS CIY

--

Exc'.

dion in

#; end

decliesia. cion

---

## Page 4

EYES CONLY

SECRET

the Agency for reimbursement of nearly $15, 000 they had advanced

our agent for salary and expenses is connection with his assigament

as their representativ

4. I have investigated the manner in which security

clearances were granted Robert Maheu, his son Peter, three

executives, and one secretary during the period from 1968 to 1970.

The "fags" placed in Maheu's Security file in 1966 were ignored

either through carelessness of oversight. I have taken appropriate

disciplinary action with the personnel involved and have instituted

again. I will work with the Chief, Central Cover Staff to ensure

that there are no cases of a similar nature. In this regard, I

whould add that this Office is totally responsible for the procedural

breakdown in this case.

5. Maheu's financial manipulations in Las Vegas are

currently under investigation by executives of the Hughes Tool

Company. He, in turi, has filed suit for damages against the

Company. Because of this, I recommend that we cancel all existing

clearances with Maheu and Associates and make no effort to contact

anyone in the firm to effect reimbursement of the $15, 000. Maheu,

as you know, is quite capable of contacting this Agency for this

purpose should he wish to do so.

loward J. Osborn

Director of Security

SECRET

SIZS CALY

---

## Page 5

cott sittin not

!

'..... ..

,......!1

EYES COY

SECRET

SUBJECT: Robert A. Maheu and Associates

The recommendation contained in paragraph 5 is approved.

Richard Helms

Director of Central Intelligence

21 JAN 1971

Date

Distribution:

Orig - Return to D/Security

1 - Deputy Director for Plane

1 - Deputy Director for Support

1 - General Counsel

1 - Chief, Central Cover Staff

SECRET

ELS C1Y

---

