oetor0i-to2mT] =, ©

et tele

«Fb 2 ammo
"2 ia 4 eabioll Tr a
© gone exmmune a9 sma :

Pere ema te A

com. Of 8

BO 5A 2, CAPR, F150 8, bu, mE 2, ty &% a, a 8, a 8,
ft 4, Shh wt Chi 2, efors cas
ee Lt y isssbbaadintaedtsesotestastesttty Bu

88265

Panam
NEAR RAST ~ APRICA BRIEF
(SOPORN IN SLARTS. REWAININO THFO BESRASABLE TO LIAISON)

3. SPAIR-APRICA: TUE 18 BEC PERBISCITE GW LOCAL AUTOMOEY IN

Y BQUATORIAL AVRICA WILL PROVEDE: ND NORE THAN A EROINEEE stap

TOHARD AUTONOMY YOR PERNARDO POO AND RIO MUNI, “2T MAY ERAD.G9P Ar-
TACKS FTES UM! ON BRAINS COLONIAL POLICE; ‘BUT EER: ABSENCE oF Laas,
PROVISIONS FOR WEAL POLITICAL AUTOSORYCounD: POBTER ‘AGITATION BY
MAVIVE HAYIORALIST ELEMENTS WHO GAVE. BREW -INOREABINGLY ACTINR. SINCE
LAST SUMMER. SEVERAL HUNDRED GB WEN RECENTSY RETURNED PAOM. EXILE
XN REIGHBORING COUNTRIES TO PARTICIDAGE IN THR PLEBESCITR OF rue
HOPE OF ASHUMING POSITIONS OF INFLUENCE UNDER THE PROMISED avrovony.
(comr)

3. ATO: //BRITAIN'S POSTION a7 tum 40 BEC MEETING OF TUR NATO
ECONOMIC ADVISERS APPARENTLY KILLS ABY PROSPECT YmAT AGuEEMEET Ox
4 COMMON CEEDIT POLICY TOWARD THE SOVIET BLOC CAN BE ACKIENED At Taz

eoonpimateme orricene —z
ces : a
BMBicaciwe orrices ‘Gmommag end avtaceriearing
REPRODUCTIAY DY OTHER TEAK! THE ISSUING OFRICE 15 RCeeersap. Come tte,

i bo @


° ee shee
1 ¥ goer comna seeeeee Das

we
| PROM:
CONF:
eH.

SAAN LS yABMEROD. ZErig VaA BUOURERA. Lava woirer x,
CRECTOR - TOSS. ice Wi dete By oar,

fae

TRAX lay op Son Ga how ok lake AeDES Ler

BUDE te ose ob
CITE Dig

fe'nme mivo wimetehiat iesren. “ves [68 CEPOREDTG ACRES. EVEN-TO:..
a0 YETERE pRoresal TuAt: PRtOR’ NéPEPECAPEON RR ELUENT TO.mAT0.2E2
Pend ‘cepote~ oe ‘OS enim eating GRANTED: //

suon Gunna aueck tise chat arte twemm-wacee male
beets ‘Yok ‘writttes Tun'vote ‘or cox? wENcE-sommDURED YOR 2S psc.

“? Silibecn ite paperies aay NO DEFECT TO THE CERTER UNIO; GOVERN-
wat fo Give rr 4 mazoerrr, IF PAPANOREOU IS CONVINCED THAT SUCH
MRFRCTORS WOULD ORE STICERELY YOR PER CRATER’ UNION COVERT, x
BIGET Deop UTS DEMING YOR RARELY KE SLsCTTON. IP BOT, HE MAY pREss
YOR ELECTIONS IN THE ZOE OF VIANING A SRCURE MAMLIAMEWTAEY wAson rrr
OF HIS OWN.

THE ERK BAS CHOSEN FORMER-VICE FUEMIER KAMNLLOSOULOS 48 17s
EB LEADER, BUT WITS THE MARTY IW OFPOBITION AED WITH ITB FOUNDER
OGT OF THR Couwry, IT MAY EVENTUALLY FRAGHEET. (cour)

4. MIDSOLE Baer OW: //v@S DURPSTE GETeEES wer ceca it ics co
PSYSCLEGE EXVOSTING COWMTEIES GHVEC) ASD THE mayoR rerremersoa, eck
COMPLIES EAS COMB TEESE: © Fee.

Pree Mt Unery



=PAGE THREE - eet PFaIE eet
//UA8T WEEK OPEC TURNED DOWN AN OFFER BY THE COMPANIES TO GO MART
Wax iGeANS “VETIN OPRC DEWANDS FOR WIGHBR ROYALTIES. THE WIDESPREAD
PUBLICITY GIVEN THIS ACTION HAS MADE COMPROMISE FAR MORE DIFFICULT
‘HRAi, ASEGR-DESLRES—-AWODERATE—L-LE—IS-HAD-SEE RN, —

THAM IT HAD BEEN

CYmAs, WHICH DESIRES A MODERATE LINE IN THE MEGOTIATIONS, 18 LH-

CREASISGLY RELUCTANT TO DISSOCIATE ITSELF PROM THE LESS FLEXIBLE
POSITION OF THE OTHER OPEC MEMBERS.//

//OPEC 18 SCHEDULED TO MEET AGAIN IK RITADE, SAUDI ARABIA, ON
24 DEC. THE MEETING IS LIZELY TO PRODUCK RECOUMENDATIONS FOR UNITED
ACTION BY OPEC MEMBER COUNTRIES AGAESGT THE COMALNIBB.// (CONF)

5. TURKEY-USSR: CONSTRUCTIONPF 4 GOVIET PROPOSED DAM ON THE
TURKISS-SOVIBT BORDER HAS BEEN DBLAYED PENDING AERIAL SURVEY. THE
YURES INSIST AZZIAL SURVEY IS NECESSARY FOR THE PREPARATIONOF EW
WAFG TO BE USED IN PLANNING FOR THE DAM AND THR RELATED IRRIGATION
SYSTEM.

TURKISH OFFICIALS CLAI! NEW DAM WILL SUPPLY IRRIGATION WATERS TO
THE IGDIR PLAIN iN NORTHWEST TURKEY AND WILL FURNIBE ELECTIRICTY TO
PREVIOUSLY U:IME2DFVELOPED ano SEMSAE dema. 00 wiewrec Tuner APPROVAL

ARTA NECEATING
oreicen

Pany Ma



“ME RR-

TOE SOVIET TECUNICAL TEAM APRARENFLY SCOMMP EE ee BJ
“BRIGHT” SOVIET AMD “DARK” _SHISG QURBER: VILLAGE. <:.

SHE PROJECT, TO BB BUSS SOLETLE: QUES SERVER : Tm 1992 a
TURCO-BOVIET WATEDR AGREEMENT, WAS, FIRST. CUIQHHED RE, TUR -GOTIETS -
TS EARLY 1961. FOLMOUXMO TECHNICAL STUDIES, TURKEY LNCUUDED THE
BORDEK DAM IN ITS-OURRENT PEVE : YEAR FLAN. AND: LUVEPED.A-TROYOF SOVIET
FRCHRICIANS TO COME TO. TUNYRY TO-DISCUSE: -FLANB-2OR TER JOT EFFORT.
EXCEPT. FOR: AERIAL SURVEY, AGRIEMEET poe Ai aaah RALAHED OUD SLL MaTOR
POINTS, DESPITE DELAY, CONSTRUCTION OF SAN. WZLL BR RROUSALY BBGIX IX
THE SPRING.

TURKISE-SOVIET COOPERATION 1N ECOROMIC MATTSRS EN THE BORDER
AREA WAS RECENTLY DEMONSTRATED Ih THR JOINT CONSTRUCTION OF A
BORDER BRIDGE TAT UAD BEEN DESTROYED SEVERAL YEARS AGO. TSE «EW
BRIDGE IS ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT TO TURKS EXPORTING LIVES“XCK 70 7E
SOVIET UATON.

ebsiieee Octet re SE : TiTEMDS TO REJECT THE 11 OEC Soyre™ cz
SEGASD IG 2 TIS WICH A pRIVATY s2amtes 2is--T,

aS SY SOVIET W108 OVER reams
~ gees stacaz



PAGE F1VE-

WILL R&FLECT ITS CONVICTION THAT VUE PLANE DID NOT STRAY OVER THE
BORDER, AS MOSCOW Cini iS, AND WILE. ASSERT TOUAT THE SOVIETS SUOULD
THEREFORE PAY FULL JAVACES ATER THAN THE 50 PERCENT OFFERED. TLE
INCIDENT OCCURRED 20 NOV DURING STATE VISIT OF SOVIET PRES IDERT
BREZHNEV. /" | (CONT)

7. ARAB STATES ISRAEL: //NABIR CLAIMS THERE IS MO CHANCE
OF A UNIFIED ARAD PLAN TO COUNTER ISRAEL'S PROGRAM FOR DIVERTING
THE JORDAN RIVER WATERS EARLY NEXT YEAR, ARAB MILITARY CEIEFS HAVE
BREN MEETING IN CAIRO FOR THIS PURPOSE, BUT THERE ARE NO REPORTS
THAT THEY SAVE REACHED ANY AGREEMENT. ON 3: DBC NASIR SAID HE WAS

WORRIED THAT SYRIA wie ACT UNILATERALLY AND PRESENT THE OTHER
ARAB STATES WITH A prog” // (CONF)

EXD OT ‘£S84CE

ry

tyne tf

Vilar ticuleet evens - . eieeecnas
\ Wietee®

BEPROUUC ON Pe . ot as 9 Copy Na

