io4-0703-10185

14 April 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:
SUBJECT: The CUBELA Trial

Briefly, Rolando Cubela Secades has been in personal contact with
Staffers of. this agency ‘in 1961, .1962, 1963, 1964 and, for the last
time, in February 1965 shortly prior to his return to Cuba.

The Record of Cubela's long conversation with Manuel Artime Buesa

on 30 December 1964 (reported. by Artime via Nestor Sanchez in the
attached Memo dated 3 January 1956) clearly indicates the extent

of Cubela's probings and high-level military contacts and his
attempts to form an internal group: which would work together to form
a non-Communist government in. Cuba in the event of Fidel Castro's
demise.

During the reported conversation of the trial, there is no indication
whatsoever that Cubela revealed anything more than his "weakness,
playboy attitude"et cetera in plotting with a man like Artime to
assassinate Castro. Under private interrogation to date there is no
known possibility that Cubela has revealed the names of the real
military leaders with whom he really was in contact and with whom

he discussed the overthrow of Castro, because none of these major
individuals, whose names are known to us, have been arrested or
detained. Ameijeiras, of course, does fall in this category. However
he, like Juan Nuiry Sanchez and Victor Bordon Machado who are
reportedly arrested, falls in the category of known personal friends
of Cubela. The other military leaders whom Cubela contacted who
have not been arrested are apparently not known to be personal or
close friends or acquaintances of Cubela. Among the latter are Vice
Minister of the Armed Forces and.Chief of the General Staff Cmdte.
Belarmino Castilla Mas and the former chief, Cmdte. Dr. Sergio del
Valle Jimenez, who is stiLi a Vice Minister of the FAR and a member
of the Political Bureau of the CCCP; a third member of this group

..was.Cmdte. Guillermo Garcia Frias, former Chief of the Army of the

West but currently a member of the Political Bureau of the CCCP.
Garcia Frias has been almost constantly with Fidel Castro, even on™
avels itroughout the island, and for this reasou was replaced as
Commanding Officer of the army of the West in the past few months.

Several careful readi gs of the entire proceedings « ft the “trial
appear to indicate that as soon as Cubela learned the extent of the
regime's knowledge of the plot to assassinate the Premier he adopted
an an immediate line of defense his own "weakness, emotional in-
stability, deterioration, liking for gay parties, the 'dolce vita'

‘ life" et cetera, as the common denominator to make himself and the

few friends known to be involved’ through the betrayal by AMHAM-1
as the sole "responsibles" for the plot. _ When asked had he been


-2-

in communication with his arrested friends since 28 February 1966,
“he said "Ni

oO, but I amagine that they must be profoundedly. analyzing
everything I am Saying here because it is the result of my deep
meditation during my deserved imprisonment where the only thing one
does is think and think — seeking the reason for one's behavior which
has led one to that condition",

___That QUHops-1_ as | and i
(AMLASH-3) was very €vident ~ for while

they revealed minor facts about the Madrid meetings with Artime which
could only have been of their own knowledge, both managed to mention
that although Cubela at times talked of the assassination they were
"sure Rolando couldnever’ really do Something like that". And "that
he appeared at other times determined and at others very indecisive
about the-plan", : :

Cubela has been reported by several sources to have been drugged.

The clear, precise, careful, educated statements he made throughout
the trial do not bear this comment out to any degree. A handwriting
analysis done by Mrs. Hall of TSD in April 1965 bears out many of the
underlying subtleties he showed in the trial. To quote a few: "He

is a cool and calculating observer who relates the smallest details
to their larger aspects".....Most people in his environment may not
even be aware of his astuteness and vigilance, as he may intentionally

on what he is doing, shutting out all possible distractions and
diversions" ...._. "He possesses great facility in expressing himself _
in word and script. He has some skill.in adjusting his style to that
of the people he is talking to. While he can be rather eloquent, he
is not likely to divulge anything which should be kept secret"...."He
has his feelings and impulses under the strictest control. He is a

