# 104-10103-10349

## Page 1

104-10103-10349

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SE CR E,T

PRO.

POSED

INFO.

Chief, Special Affairs Stall

FROM

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

NEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

PLISHED

Chief of Station, JMYAVE

SUBECT Operational/TYPIC/AMLEO

ACTION REQUIRED • REFORENCES

Operational Progress Report AMLEO AMTRUAK

Gps

ACTION REQUIRED:

None; FYI

REFERENCES:

A.

B.

UFGA-10496, 6 August 1963

WAVE -4034,

8 September 1963

See T

C.

UFGH-2379, 6 August 1963

D.

UFGA-7858, 25 February

1963

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPVENTS

This report will cover the period 3u July 1965 through

15 September 1963 and is a follow-up report to reference A.

EFFORTS TO LEGALLY EXFILTRATE AMLEO-3 FAMILY FIQI CUBA

20.

developments occurred which effectively eliminated several alternate

solutions to the problem of the AlLEO-3 family in Cuba.

alternate solutions that were eliminated, as found in paragraph

3 of reference A, were (a) "Maintain Status Quo as a Family

attempting Leave

Cuba via Offices of Swiss Embassy as Part of the

American Repatriation Program"; (b) "Have AMLEO-3 Family

¡Withdraw Papers Fron the Swiss Embassy and American Repatriation

Program and Attempt Leave Cuba as Normal Refugees via Mexico

Or Spain": and (e) "Have the AMLEOS Family Case Taken up With the

GOC Through the 'Donovan' Channel for Possible Legal Exfiltration".

Elimination of the above alternates left only two solutions

that were at all feasible; (c) "Have the AlkO3 Family Take

Asylum in either the Uruguayan or Mextan Embassies in Havana",

or (d) .

"Have the AMLIO-3 Family Exfiltrated black In a Maritime

Operation by either a KUBARK or Independent Maritime Tean."

Because of the inherent risk involved in a black oxfiltration,

it was decided that the AMLEO3 family should be put into

asylum in either the Uruguayan or Mexican embassies with all

possible speed.

(CONTINUED)

Distributiou:

3 Headquarters w/att USC

Attachment: * ,USC

Identities

declassificalion

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

19 Sept 6!

DISPATCH SYMBOL NO GIRL NOT

UFGA: 11375

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-6-75/3

---

## Page 2

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA -11375

bator during the conversation AlTHIl asked

Mrs. AILFO-3 11 her. husband still had the presentation Soviet

pistol that he had given hin in 1961, and Mrs. AIREQ-3

Inforned hin that her husband had taken 1t with him when he

defected and asked ANTHUG 1 11 he wanted it returned to him.

ANTHUG-I did not roply to the quetion.

Later on, while

discussing her conversation with ANTHUG l with Identity B,

Identity B suggested to Mrs. AM.EO-3 that she request AMLEO-3

to send the pistol back to ANTHUG-1 via Ambassador LECHUGA

at the United Hations, Nic.

Identity B added that the return

of the pistol night help mtters since the lons of the platol had

been one of the

things that bothered AlTHUG-l nost when

AMLEO 3 defected.

(1.0. AHLEO? has noted that these special

presentation soviet pistols were given by AlTHudl to probably

less than ten people in Cuba, and their presentation had a very

special meaning for ANTHUG I sInce the recipiente were supposed

to be his very personal and close friends.

that not even AMLOUT-1 had received one of these special

presentation pistole fron ANTHUG1.) Consideration 18 being

given to ANTHUG l's request, 11 1t would assist Hrs. AMKO 3

1n her efforts to love Cuba; but for the time boing the pistol

#111 be held by KUBARK:

FORM

5-60

53a

to tel

8. ANTHUG1 also told Mrs. AMLEQ-J that her husband had

ntolon & light plane when he fled and Implied (although she

does not so state directly) that he would 1lke to see 1t

returned.

The balance of Mra. AlEO. 3's letter concerned her

destre to leave Cuba,

mentioned the nocessty for aluness by both

she and her husband with no rash actions,

and without giving

any additional facts stated that ber conversation with ANTHUG 1

had been a long one but that she could not get him to make

any promisos re her departure.

DEVELOPMENT OF OPSRATIONAL, LEADS TO DISAFFECTED CUBANS

During the operational perlod one of AMLEO 3'g

operational leads, whom he had written a report on

ANTRUNK. Pl operation', was recruited via the recently successful

ANTRUNK infiltration operation and given the crypt of AXTRUNK-10.

AMLEO 3 also screenod additional ANTRUNK leads and KUTUBL

military leads during the perlod and was able to submit

reports on some four individuals for these operations.

All such

loads vere led to him mixed in with many other Cuban names.

AMLEO-3 16 presently preparing reports on PHS target studies

Major Felipe GUERRA Matos and Hajor Jorge SEGUERA, Cuban

ambassador to Algeria.

10.

ANKEO3 also assisted in the handling of AJLEO-5'g

wife during the period then she established direct telephonic

conmunication with her husband to Cuba, and tried to cónvince

him that she wanted to return to Cuba with her children,

but stipulated to A-S that he would have to meet her in a third

country first and resolve their personal family problems.

ALLEO? baby sat for the wife during these calle, since we

only knew what day the calls would be coming in and never the

•hour. He nlso assisted Hrs. AMLIOS 1n recording the last telephone

conversation she had with her husband.

In this name operation

AMLEO»3 also assisted the Case Officer In the conversations

hold with the nother of AMLBO5 while she was in the United

States, although he was never allowed to establish direct

contact with the nother.

We had hoped that the mother of

'AHLRO»5 would attempt to establlah contact on her own with

AMLED3, but to wAVE Station knowledge whe never attempted to do

the had, we would have allowed. AlLEQ] to respond to her

contact efforte

(maintaining his cover as being disassociated

with ODYOKE).

During the period fragmentary information has been

received from the wife of AME0-3 (utilizing nicknames or other

CLASSIFiCATION.

PAGE NO,

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

BE CRET

---

## Page 4

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 5

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICÁTION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA 11375

To this end steps were initiated in on 24 July 1963

to put the AHLEO-3 fanily and AMLEO? into asylum in the Mexican

The AMLSO-3 family and AMLEO? were advised

via the MERES OWVL channel on ½ August 1963 to prepare

thenselves for asylun and to await further orders via the same

channel.

KUBARK Station in Mexico City, meanwhile, took urgent

action

through 1ts Mexican Halaod channels to have the lexican

Foreign Ministry obtain visas for the AMLEO-3 family and

AKLEQ2; and then send word to the Mexican Embassy In Havana,

Cuba that the 1MLEO-3 Lamily and AMLEO? should be granted asylum

when they appeared at the Mexican Consulate under cover of

obtaining their visas.

The visa portion of the operation was

antisfactorily completed and notification of same

was sent into

the Mexican Embassy in Havana; but word re asylum for the

AMLEO3 lamity

and AlLio? was not sent to the lexican embassy

due to insecure commo channels and lack of trusted

to date no secure method has yet been found to

the Mexican

Embassy in Havana that asylum should be granted to the AMLEOs.

As a result of the above, word was sent to Allis t

via OLL On 11 Septenber requesting he detemine whether or not

Identity A would be willing

to act as intermediary to receive

the AMuTO-3 family and AMLFO-2 into asylum at a specific tine

and date at the Mexican consulate. All stel asked for

clarification on the manner of approaching Identity A on the case

on 13 September via pouch, and more detailed guidance on the

matter was sent to bin via OWVi. on 14 Septenber. A final reply

re possibilities for action via this channel 1s

expected from

AH RE-D nomentarily.

If the Alek-l reply is Invorable, then

he will be told to arrange the meeting at the Mexican consulate

between the AlEOs and Identity A so that they can be taken into

asylum by the Mexicans.

As noted in reference B, if the AlikED report is a

negative one,

then consideration

wild be given to having the

asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy In Havana.

The

test case utilizing AMCANOL-3, mentioned in paragraph

5 / of

B, 1s to be attempted on or about 21 August 1963, and

If this attempt at asylum is successful

then arrangements

will

have the AMLEOs enter the Uruguayan Embassy in the

Bame manner.

6.

As noted in paragraph 1 of reference B,

of AMLEO-3 finally made a direct contact with ANTHUG-1 on 7

September 1963, while he was at his Santa Marla beach house,

and appealed too him for permiasion to leave Cuba with her

children and rejoin her husband AMuEO-3 In the United States.

On 14 September

1963 ANLFO»3 received a letter from his wife

giving more details on the above meeting.

had been visiting the beach home of a family friend, situated

next to that of ANTHUG) on Santa Maria beach, on a

dally basis

hoping to see AMTNUG1.

him swimming alone 1n

Finally, on 7 September 1963,

she saw

the ocean and promptly

went into the water,

Introduced herself, and requested ramission to talk to bin.

THUG-] granted this permission, and during thelr

conversation

AMTHUG ] made 1t clear he would

not grant Mrs.

AMLEQ-3 permission

to depart Cuba at this tine, stating

that the tine was not

propitious due to the attacks and raids being carried out

against Cuba, and that Mrs. AMLEO-3 would just have to wait.

Mrs. AMLEO-3 then told him she did not see why he was holding her

and her children responsible for what her husband did; that she

feared her husband might forget her and their children completely

1f the separation continued,

and that 1f AMLIO3 was left much

longer alone he would find a woman to replace her.

roplied by asking her "Do you consider yourself a burden

to your

husband?"

The wife replied "It is

possible", and AlluG-l then

asked "But he calls you every day."

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO.

.. 53 c

SE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

CONTINUED

2..

---

## Page 6

Ci..7r i MDAm

waas ethalk

sremuear

: rieoo tian

Moo: : 980ni

Atlesis,r e. 9nids

mD45e.4

14-00000

---

## Page 7

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

VIGA -11375

code phrases for individuals) Indicating that Identity B

has continued to be very helpful to her by supplying

her with blackmarket food, loaning her her

automobile, and other-

wise assisting her with her problems.

carrying out such actiong on & genuine friendship basis,

(she has even been denounced by the neighborhood defense

assisting gusanos") or she may be buying insuranco

The possibility also exists that she is readining

Mrs. AULEO 3 on orders of ANTHUG-] and is

reporting on all developments to AMTHUG.1.

In early September

1963 Raul PRIMELLES (201-327902) arrived at Identity

home for a visit while Mrs. AVLEO-3 was present.

Mr. and Mrs.

PRIELLES ignored the presence of Mrs. A-3 and did not speak

to herewhile greeting

Identity B.

Because of this Identity B

promptly turned her back on her visitors and did not answer

continuing her conversation with Mrs. ALEO3.

PRIMSILES were thrown into some confusion by this reception

and departed from the aren.

Mrs. AMLEQ3 has also mentioned that CSNAFU-12

was most kind

to her during her recent home leave 1n Cuba,

and made it quite clear she was anxlous to get in touch with

AMIRO 3.

During the latter part of August Mrs. A-3 again

montloned to her husband that UNSNAFU12 had written Identity

B from Paris

stating she was surprised at not having heard

frOm AMLEQ-9.

ATTITUDE, MORALE, AND PERFORMANCE OF AMLEO-3

the reporting period AMLE0-3 has consistently

cooperative with his C/O and has maintained a good attitude

towards his work.

During the latter part of Agust 1963 AMLBO-3

began to lose his patience with the slow progress in getting

his wife into asylum, and began requesting permission to return

to Cuba himself in order to exfiltrate hia wile black.

becane quite demanding in this regard and clained that KUBARK'

time had run out, and since he had waited patiently for nino

months he now felt it was his turn to try his luck. Alio-3

1s extremely confident of his own ability in action situatlong

and operations and extensive argumentation was needed to

persuade him that such a course of action would be suicidal

for his wife and children and that his wisest courne of action

would be to give us additional time to bring the asylum operation

to a successful conclusion.

Because of AHLRO 3'9 falth in

higher authority, COS JMWAVE, Andrew E. REUTEMAN visited AULEO-i

on 8 September 1963 for the purpose of convincing hin that any

unilateral action on his part would only be counterproductive

and playing right into ANTHUG-l's hands.

KUBARK's linited

conmitments to AMLEO-3 "ere also reviewed along with the history

of our actions to help his wife and children leave Cuba legally.

After sone frank exchanges of lacts ALluEO-3 was finally convinced

thät the only productive course of action left to hin was to

to sweat out the asylum proposition and hope for the

Absolutely no further commitments were made to AbLKO-3

during these discussions and alternate courses of action 1f

the asylun attempts fall were not discussed but instead left in

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT AND PLANNING

14. As previously mentioned in paragraph 13 of reference A,

AMLEO 3 went to ZRUITAL during the period

the purpose of obtaining a French visa for his allas

documentation.

AMILEO-3 successfully obtained the French visa

during this trip, and his allas passport now contains yalid vlast

for travel to

Spair, and Iranc

---

## Page 8

14-00000

---

## Page 9

stair

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-11375

15. I WAVE Station regrets that reference C has not been

answered to date.

In reply we can only state that Alito-?

was thoroughly briefed on the limitations of hia allas docuentation

when said documentation was lagued to him.

He was told that the

credit card documents could never be used

for Identification or

credit purposes.

He had also been warned to avoid situations

whore he would be asked for positive identification, such as

renting a car, and by attempting to procure a rental car in

07 218

was castigated for

his actions, and again briefed on the limitations of his allas

documentation.

In order to strengthen his alias documentation

an I.D. card document Identifying hin as an employeoeo! "Charles

S. Hilson Associates" has been issued to him, as suggested by

(Chester D. DAINOLD In conversations with AXLEQ-3 In ZRMSTAL.

In regard to points a and b in paragraph 2 of reference C,

the KURIOT representative in WAVE Station states that the Florida

drivers license issued to Joseph A. Reese is & valid, backstopped

drivers license for actual use by the Subject and the address

a legitimate uatehouse with backstopped rental cover.

Subject's

cover story was that he recently moved to the Miami area from

New Orleans, Louisiana (which city the Subjoct lived in for

several years and has relatives residing thore). The Subtot's

documentation le therefore correct for hia cover story.

"pelling of "inatalment" on the National Credit Card was correctly

eppled from the

original document reproduced by KURIOT and we must

point out that "Instalment" is not only correct according to the

dictionaries but is the spelling.of the word which is now frequeutly.

preferred.: (The Wall Street Journal Invariably prints the word

as "Instalnent" with one "I".) It would be appreciated Il

Headquarters would in the future coordinate with KURIOT in

Headquarters on questions which deal with AQUATIC matters prior

to

querying WAVE.

COSTS

AMLBO3 continues to recelve a flat salary of five

hundred dollars ($500.00)

per month, and also is paid approximately

one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month for purchase of foodstuffs

since he is encouraged to

eat his meals in the KUBARK

safehouse and stay out of public places.

We have also continued

to pay the wife of AlLEO-5 the amount of one hundred and twenty five

dollars ($125.00) per month for subsistance for herself and her

two children to supplement the $120.00 per month she receives

from the Cuban Refugee Center.

The C/O has continued his efforts

to find part-time employment

for Mrs: AMLEO-5 so that KUBARK

could be relleved of the necessity to aupport her, but to date

we have been unsuccessful in our efforts primarily because Mrs.

AMLEO-5 has never worked in her life and has no work skills

No other financial expenditures of note were made

the period, and no financial assistance 18 presently

contemplated for any other AMLEOS.

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

During the reporting period no positive intelligence

reports were disseminated by the AMLEO group since none of the

active agents are located in the target area, nor do they

in Cuban exile circles.

We are continuing to utilize AMLEO-3 an a consultant

on the MHAPRON program, and to this ond are plannias to have

hin expand his reporting of personality Information on selected

Individuals and to utilize him to explain interconnections

between various individuals and groups as they take shape 1,

MHAPRON research.

FORM

5-60

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

5.

---

## Page 10

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 11

•CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

URGA- 11375

FUTURE PLANS

Future plans for operational exploltation of ALLBO-3

continue to remain the

same as outlined in detail in reference D.

The operational use of AMLEO3 in defection/ recraitment

operations will not be permitted until his wile and children are

successfully put into asylum In one of the Latin American Embassies

in Havana®

20. WAVE Station will continue to work on AMLIO-3 developmental

cases concentrating on MIAPRON lenda, and attempt to build two

way communications channels into such leads.

AMLEO6 1s st111

considered to be the beat qualilled lead by Along to act an

principal agent and recruiter of other disaffected military

personnel in Cuba.

Details on these developmental operations

will be reported via separate dispatch.

END OF DISPATCH

FORM

3-60

53a

40)

1875r2veus 101:00m

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

6.

---

## Page 12

14-0000

---

