# 104-10114-10052

## Page 1

104-10114-10052 •

:

SEOK

Chies, CI/QA

2 APR 1951

Acting Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Support)

C-25507

#112569

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 28 February 1957,

herein a provisional covert security approval and a covert security

approval were requested to enable the Subject's conversion to carees

agent status fnr use as Principal Agent for Froject MC Ol Jin

Cuba, L 24.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Field Regulation 10-215, a pro-

visional covert security approval. is granted for the use of the

Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 11,

above.

3. It should be noted that the provisional covert security

approval berein granted is based on limited investigative coverage

and should not be in any way construed as a final security deter-

mination relative to a full covert security approval. Upon com-

pletion of additional investigation now pending, you will be ap-

propriately advised as to our decision with regard to the issuance

of a full covert security approval.

4. Subjects of provisional covert security approvals are not

to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented a8,

employees of CIA.

CD54S

5. Your attention is called to the fact that a provisional

Trasp.

_covert security approval dos not constitute complete compliance

_alth the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, If you should

desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual,

a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted

newto this office.

This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's

Tic:

Ci..

Pren dun.

services are not utilized within 60 days of the date of this memo

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Dor i3

59 -

Dest CiD

.---

cc : f1le

HAMBY : rhm-i

27 Marer: 193%

PENDING

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

V.

SSD Files

Hall

SECRET

---

