# 104-10164-10097

## Page 1

104-10164-10097

20244020002436

1402302247

201-299292

Aug 76 - Oct 76

VI FI

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ORLANDO BOS CM AYILA

On 26 acroter 1878 NES laterand ors 28M ober ioe loloprano inar

pel as tão Do sun lentorarion arores. lo indo do o0o prantor so

"AMard bur no novor lullilled lhe tamiroento do becono a 0.8.

POTOON, 1o 10T9 dO DO 89A980d ANO Indolinito voluntary deportaro.

---

## Page 3

OUTGOI

MESSAGE:

• 1

939938

openio, clues

2/312

INASATATE SMNSGRATION AND MATURRESZATSON SERUSCCIIATELLIGENEE

DIVISION O ATTN: LEE BENUCHAMP Y

SEERLY-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE IMPELLIGENGE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED

1C80-006100436-71

STATUS OF ORLANDO DO SEM AVILAY

IS. THIS AGENCY WOULD APPRECRATE AS SOON AS POSSIOLE

CLARIPICATION ON THE CURRENT IMMIGRATION STATUS OF ORLANDO

DOSEN AVILA, CUDAM EXILE BORM SO AUGUST STEL, SANTA CLARA,

CUONOV

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT PROM MICHE

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. 32652. EXEMPTION

CATEGORY SO 823. ' IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTONALIE

DECLASSIPICATION- ri

PILEY 200-22-200/30 203-299292

ACALAISE A

BATE PA: OCT 76

BrT!

810 10)

3/6/04416-16

ралі

100332

RECORD COPY:

FEPHODUCTION OY OTHEE YMAN THE MAUINE EPICE 10M

Ne 0052200-12.200/1

IMPDET

iCk.

1.31

---

## Page 4

OUTGOIPS MESSAGE

.18.-1

1 B009в 00

SCARE

STATE

com.

DIRECTOR

10.

INFO

IN 0777491 M6S-30-772(6eMA ACLAYES

- 0.

LIN 0795991 O6NOT NERDEO

FOLLOWING IS CORRECTION ISSUED FOR HIADQUARTERSI CUSTONERS

OCTOBER 1I74L DA POUR-PAGE IMPORMATION REPORT MITH THE ABOVE

HEADING AND NUMBER MAS ISSUED ON ZZ OCTOBER 3976• ACCORDING TO

PARAGRAPH POUR OF THAT REPORT, THE PASSPORT POUND IN THE POSSESSION

OF ORLANDO BOSCH BUAS ISSUED IN CHILE IN 3966. ON 26 OCTOBER THE

SOURCE OR PARAGRAPH POUR, CORRECTING HIS EARLIER INPORMATION, REPORTED

THAT BOSCH'S PASSPORT WAS AN ORDINARY CHILEAN PÄSSPORT BEARING THE

NUMBER: 26583 AND WAS ISSUED IN SANTIAGO ON 25 SEPTEMBER 1975 "4

A. REFA BEING

RELAYCOI

FOR DISSEN TO AMBISSAN

FILE: 201-29929201

E2 IMPDETON

LA COMMENTS, REF A

CHILEAN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CUBAM EXILE

LEADERS ORLANDO BOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO

D.UPDATING ON BOSCH'S PASSPORT

Za OCTOVER 1976

KX

LA/SB/CH

4/60/MCH

FLA PNC

RECORD COPY

REPRCDUSTION ST OTHER THAN THE ISGUING OFFICE IS PROMENTSO

1500176

Nеi-1929

C/LA/SO

HAPDET

---

## Page 5

OUTGOIN®

MESSAGE

14=1

•

134486

onsen out,

IMMEDIATE SANGRATION AND NIPLILIZATION SERVICE INTELLiGENCE

DIVISION-S ATTN: LEE BEAUCHAMP Y

SECRET-VARMING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED A

C1R-386104436-764

SUBJECT: STATUS OF ORLANDO BO SEN AVILAY

THIS AGENCY WOULD APFRECIATE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE

CARIFICATION ON THE CURRENT INMIGRATION STATUS OF ORLANDO

(O O'S CM. AVILA, CUBAN EXILE BORN LA AUGUST 1926, SANTA CLARAO.

CUDA A

¿• CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM MUUMN

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E-O. JILSE. EXEMPTION

CATEGORY SE CES. 'IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE, OF AUTOMATIC:

DECLASSIFICATION M

200-12-800/3• 203-3992920

BATIZE OCT. 71

LOMO

WHITE LA/SB/CH

Hankinh

MITNGGUGTION BY OTHER THAN THE MOUING CONICA ES PROMEN

IMPOUT

8719=--

---

## Page 6

14-00000

#alta

10410482 7190

SECRET

155 aG

PETED

STAFf

ADVANCE COU

c/.18

т 336056

AP BOTTID

FILE

14E6Z: 0001

ELAB7Y

PAGE 01

T0R12815152 OGT 26

8B. OR E 1 2815828 OCT 20 STARE

P TH

CITE

TOO DIRECTOR INFOL

ÜNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL

IN 082793

Sonice:

(iN 081609) 24BFC4

I NOT SENT

TC6d 978488)

FOLLOWING COMMENTS REPARA 2 OF REF A ARE, BEING:

REPEATED FOR CLARIFICATION,

¡ PER PARA 1 OF REE 8, AT WAS COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT DANIEL

O DU/BER: QUIROS WHO APPARENTLY CONJURED-UP INVOLVEMENT O

ORLANDO

B OSCH IN THE ARMS MOVEMENT STORY DISCUSSED BETWEEN

COSTAN RICAN FOREION MINISTER GONZALO PA-C & ON AND CHILEAN

AMMASSADOR TO COSTA RIGA LONGE A RANDA PARRA, DESNIDENTIAL:

PUNGSTENARIES OF THE U,S, EMBASSYM CACTUALLY U.S, AMBASSADOR A

VIHO ADVISED THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT OF AN ULTRA-,

RONTIOT PLOT DID NOT REPEAT NOT MENTION THAT BOSCH MAS INVOLVED IN

ANY WAY WITH THIN PLOT. AND

_JHAS NO INPORMATION INOSCATINO

• -THATS OUCH WAS IMYCLYED.

ALLEQSO INVOLYEMENT OR BOSCH WAS APPARENTLY PURE INVENTION

BY PARBIDENT ODUDER AND PORSION MINISTER PAGIO AND THEY TOLD INVENTION

В20/ 590-995-

D 200 - 12-2 00/1

RECORD C0179

2801+71

501249882

---

## Page 7

14-00000

NE &

ICIAL CORES

SECRET

HO THE CD

STAFF

ADVANCE

COP

RE. FILE.

vA

ac non: 0

1N

002793

336956:

E1A0Y5

PAGE

82-02

TOR:2815152 OCT 26

TO ARANDA POSSIBLY TO STRENGTHEN THEIA CASE SINCE BOSEN TRAVELLED

ON

"CHILEAN PASSPORT,

FILED 201-3009850

200-12-200/1. EZ IMPDET

65÷

Merrilgri

CC19 CHo102 69 575005 92 1à

H5621

1298

a Sane 50008

146 O

-TuTst

nevisal

---

## Page 8

OUTGOIN

MAL CHATEAUSOM

0

MESSAGE

SEE RET

14-2

amon

27?3362

CIA/DDO

134175

colelint

conlis, dos

0

TOSPFEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//ATTN: ROR. MCHARGUE/GENERAL.

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION. Y

SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INDELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS Y

FIRCI-312/03218-764

i SUBJECT: CONTACT BETUEEN ORLANDO BOSCH AND THE NOVO BROTHERS IN

MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER Y

Sol

13z

Z. SINCE HIS ARREST ON IS OCTOBER 1976 ORLANDO B

AVILA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER. HAS ADMITTED TO AN OPFICIAL OF THE

VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SCIVICES Of INTELLICENCE JUD

PREVENTION/EDISIPS THAT HE HAD CONTACT WITH THE SANOVO GROTHERS

IN MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETE LIE RI

BETO

Bosch

NOONETION DY OTNER THAN THE ISOUINO COPICE IS PROMOTEO

DED

---

## Page 9

OUTGOING

MESSAGE

14%

OnF.

0 3:

SI SARET

Com:

FO: PILI

DESSEN OVs

934175

FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR PE THE UNITED STATES.

COMMENTI ACCORDING TO A NUMRER SE PRESS ARTICLES, IGNACIO NOVO

DED GUILLERTO NO VO MAVE BEEN CHARGED ON SEVERAL OF THEIR

COMPATRIOTS IN VENEZUELA AS SEING RESPONSIDLE FOR THE ASSASSINA-

TION OF ORLANDO LETELIER. IT IS BELIEVED THAT YOUR AGUTEN BUREMU

HAS ABDITIONAL INFORRMATION ON THE NOVO BROTHERS. IGNACIO AND

GUILLERNO.JY

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.:

xGDs-2er

BASED ON:

WIN 0802491

WISCARLET CUKSCARLET-17}

00d?

CTERSA

PrELECOORDS

SALAIPNE

&/LAIRR

DUT

E? OCTOBER 74

LAW SEICH

2473

---

## Page 10

LA SO

SECRET:.

Tu. 2. TIT TPEH /e). 1B, e9s/KT, 35 ..

OSGIC 2•

GLALLY

AGENCY OESSAG

33

FAGE ad

80R8 2728323 069 .76

B E CA E 1 278700E DET 26 INTELL

CITE

POS PRIDRURY DIRECTOR ENFO

WNINTEL

SUPDATA:

ERHAHOO FOR HOS REVIEN.

HRS

IN 001000

HCS- 10 •775

1P

INDEX BOSCH, DAVANZO

FILED • 8

CL BY 04869. FILEI

271700 ₴

XXXXX

15-5-101.

2/ 0000

DOC. MICRO. SEA.

DEC

8 1973

MICOFILWED

206PR10

REBORIE RO Ä

KA/SBCH

D15-5-1

2700*76

801-249494

---

## Page 11

14-00000

Tie followi

in any orhes

SECRET

ON INTERNAL USE ORRY

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION CARE

DESTIVE PITE LICE A SEE MONE METHODS ENER

• .

PAGENT OF

22 OCTOBER 1976

PAGES

vete el Operationa botore being and

review, a copy la provided fer your

DISSE INATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED EY ORICINATOR

DISTUBUTION TO: LSDO

REPORT CLASS SECRETO-dARNIN@NOTIGER-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED"ONDT RELEASABLE TO'

FOREIGN

NATIONALSO-NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRAGTORS OR CONTRACTORA

CONSULTANTS•-DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY!

CHILE/COSTA RICA

SUBJECT: OADDITIONAL DATA ON CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS USED

BY ORLANDO BOSGH AYRLA

N40477

REPORTED CHILEAN CONCERN OVER THE FACT

HAT ORLANDO DO SC

AVILA HAD BEEN ARRESTED IN COSTA RICA

IN EARLY SOTO CAARYANO CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS, THIS REPORT

PROVIDES FULL DETAILS OF THE INCIDENT AS REPORTED AT THE TIME

BY THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN BAN JOSE, COSTA RICA,

ASCORDINO TO SECRET AIRGRAM NUMDER 2 OR PHO CHILDAN

---

## Page 12

17 3007 ONel

345004

SECRET

IN

081640

TORR

WARNING NOTICE

TIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2:00;L PAGES

UNTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATIN SURECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

ENBASSY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, DATED 16 MARCH 19760 ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA WAS ARRESTED IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA ON 30 FEBRUARY.

• 2076 ON SUSPICION OF BEING INVOLVED IN A PLOT AGAINST THE

UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF STATE. BOSCH WAS CHARGED HUTN HAVING

ENTERED COSTA RICA ILLESALLY USING DOCUMENTATION IN THE NAME OF

HECTOR EMILIO RAMON

AANZ O CINTOLEST. AS OF 16 MARCH

107,60

BOSCH: WAS UNDER DETENTION IN CARTAGO, COSTA RIGA. THE

COSTA RIGAN GOVERNMENT MAS!

STUDYING THE POSSIBILITY OF EXPELLING

MIM RUT HAD BEEN UNABLE TO FIND A COUNTRY WILLING TO ACCEPT HIMA

3. HHEN ARRESTED, BOSCH WAS CARRYING THE FOLLÖWING CHILEAN

IDENTITY DOCUMENTS:

ADA BIRTH CERTIFICATE IN THE NAME OF MECTOR EMILIO

RAMON DAVANZO CINTOLEST, ISSUED BY THE GIVIL REGISTRY OFFICE OP

THE QUINTA NORMAL PA SANTIAGO SUGURBI QN E ANOUST 1973.. THE

GERTIFIGATE HAS SIONED AY ÃLBERTO E A SA LO A CAVAL REDISTRY

SECTION CHIEF, AND REFLECTCO A BIRTH DATE OF CAUZUOT 1027,

REGISTRY NUMBER 953 OF THEILAS DARRANCAS LA LOWER CLASS SANTIAGO

SUBURO! INSCRIPTION OFFICE:

115

THE PARENTS NERE LDENTIPINO AS

HECTOR DAV ANGO AND AMALIA ENFIQUETA CANTONE iS

CHILEAN DENTITY CARD NUMBER 2999482, BBQUED IN

---

## Page 13

IN

068600

SECRET

WARNDIC NOTICE

EATILUCENCE SOURCES AND METHODE INVOLVEI

PAGE: 3 OF & PAGES

PUTE ONES STATE A MOON NO OR ON SURET TO

SANT :AG0.

•THE GARD ALSO LISTED A TAX SDENTIFICATION NUMBER OF

2.357.422-5.

COMMENTO NO DATE OF ISSUANCE WAS REPORTED

TOR THIS ETEM.)

C. AN AUTOMOBILE TITLE FOR A SINCA 1008, ISSUED BY

THE SANTRACO PROPERTY REGISTRY OFFICE ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1960 AND

BEÄRING REGISTRY NUMBER 682712.

CHILEAN ORDINARY (RED COVERD PASSPORT NUMBER

26583. ISSUED 25 SEPTEMBER 1975. IN THE NAME OF NECTOR ÈMILIO

RAMON DAVANZO CINTOLESI.

THE PASSPORT CONTAINS PRINTING OFFICE

REGISTRY NUMBER 14441-1975 AND THE SIGNATURES OF VICTORIA

MO RAN DOREN AND MARIATELENA SEL MANN

COTICERS. IT CONTAINS THE APPROPRIATE TAX STAMPS, WATERMARKS.

AND SEAL ON THE PHOTOGRARH

SIR.. THE CHILEAN PASSPOAT CARRIEU BY BOSCH CONTAINED ENTRY

AND EXIT STAMPS INDICATIN THE FOLLOWING TRAVELO

Aöi

EXIT FROM CHILE VA PUDANUEL INTERNATSONAL NIAPORI

ON 20 DECEMBER 1073.

DOT ENTRY AND EXITIPROM PANAMA VIA POCUMEN INTERNATIONAL

AIRPORT ON ZO DECEMBER 8970.

ENTRY IN BL SALVADUR ON 80 DECEMBEA 1975

---

## Page 14

1: 081640

WAViNG, NOTICE

ENSITTVE SATELLICDICI SOLACES AND MITHODS EVOLVEDI

SECRET

PADE O OF 6 PAGE

PUITMER DISSEMANATION AND USE OF THIS INFORIATION SUMECT YE

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNINO AND END OF REPORT

COMMENTO, NO PLACE OF ENTRY OR SUBSEQUENT EXIT WAS RECORDED. Y

DO ENTRY IN COSTA RICA ON 2 JANUARY 3926.

COMMENTS' NO PLACE UE ENTRY NAS REPORTED.D

•EO EXIT FROM COSTA RICA AND ENTRY INTO NICARAGUA

ON 3O JANUARY 1976.

JCOMMENTO NO. PLACE OF EXIT OR ENTRY

NAS REPORTED.

6 PEERUARY 1976.

FO EXIT FROM NICARAGUA AND ENTRY INTO COSTA RICA ON

"COMMENTE NO PLACE OF EXIT OR. ENTRY

WAS REPORTED•›

BOSOM REMAINEDIN SAN JOSE FROM 6 FEBRUARY 1976 UNTIL

HIS ARREST ON 10 FEBRUARY 1070. ACCORDING TO A SECRET SOURCE

OF THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN SAN JOSE, BOSCH OBTAINED THE FALSE

ICENTATE BOCUMENTS FROMA FRIEND IN CHILE WHO IS A COLONEL IN

ONE OF THE BRANGHES OF THE CHILEAN ARMED FORCES.

COMMENTA

THE SECRET SOURCE OP THE CHILEAN EMBASSY, WAS NOT

PEN?RIED, BUT CONSIDERINd THE FACT THAT HE SOUNCE@ALLOWED

A ENSLEAN EMBASSY OFFICER TO EXAMINE BOSCHES FALSE IDENTITY

DOCUMENTS, ¡" HAS FROBABLY GUNMALE EÀG LO. COOTARICAN

FORETON MINISTER, IS 10 NOR KNOWN 8P IN PAGT THE EMBLEAN

BAGAOgY'S SECRET SQURCE PAILRO TO PROVIDE THE IDENTSTY OR THE

!CA19

---

## Page 15

9000

06L00

EDIN

SECRET

CHILEAN COLONEL OR D8 TAE PAPPAREA OR PA8 REPORE DURABID IP 801

THIS MANNER IN ORDER TO AVOIO DEPFICULTIES MITH MIS SUORRIORS, I

O• TNE REPORT NAS DISMED dY PRANCISCO COU A PACHECO,

CHILEAN CHARGE IN SAN JOSE.

COMMENTO CRUS IS NORMALLY

THE OILEAN CONSUL IN SAN JOSE, BUT HAS QUARGE IN MARCH 1026

DUE TO THE ASSENGE OF THE AMBASSADOR ON LEAVE ?

IN OCTODER 8070.

CRUZ NAS SUDDENLY RECALLED EROM SAN JOSE SHORT OR TOUR, AND

IS EXPECTED: TO ARRIVE IN SANPIAGO IN LATE OCTOBER, THE REASON

GIVEN HITHIN THE FOREIGN MINISTRY FOR CRUZI RECALL 8S THAT

A NIECE OF PRESIDENT AUGUSTO D IN O CNE T HAD OCCASION PO

REQUEST CONSULAR ASSISTANGE FROM HIM DURSNO A PRIVATE VISIT TO

COSTA RICA, AND FOUND HIM AUSENT FROM MIS OFFISE DURING NORMAL

WORKING HOURS, UNDER CURRENT CONDITIONS IN THE CHILEAN FOREIGN

MINISTRY, THIS IS A PLAUSTLE EXPLANATION. ANDTHERE 15 MO

CONTRADICTORY INFORMATION AVAILABLE.

DISSEMI

EMBASgY

PRINCIPAL OFFICERS

ALSO SENT

PRINCIPAL OFFICERS ONGS AND

("RINGIPAL OFFICERS AND LEGATE ONLYS,

REPOAT CLASS SECRET - WARNINO NOTICE → SENSITIVE INTOLLICENGE

SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVID • NOT RELEASABLE TO FORGION

---

## Page 16

1002600

SECRET

MATIONOLS DO NOS MELHOSOLE TO CONTRDCTORS OR COMPRACTONO

CONEUATANTS

• DISSEMIAATID AND EEPAACTION

CONTADUCÃO DE OAIGIUATOR

CLCTSIPIRO DY RECORDEO REPONTAMO OPRICE;

KODR-8.

1701-299292

---

## Page 17

- of..

Bad$ 351-

" 01

Vegaseen der 20

•I COOT 198.000 OCT T STATE

CITE

90 0

MARIORITY

• 080

•0 008000

eld onanila)

AN ADDITION PO DOCUMENT LEPORTED REP DO EUDOUBLE-AOL

CoPy

OF CHILEAN EMBASSY COSTA RICA MRESERVADON ABRORAM 220/J0, DATED

? JULY 8976, MHICH TOGETHER WITH REP & DOCUMENT HERE BASIC DOGUMENTS

80 FILE NHICH FOREION MINISTRY ASSEMBLED ON ORLANDO BOSCH. DESCRIBED

RUF A..

ISUAGEST REE A AND CORRECTION DE REGAYED

REMAINING

DOCUMENTS WERE NEWSPAPER CLIPPINOS AND DOCUMINTS ORIGINATED

SA OCTOBER 197S AFTER SOSCH ARREST IN CARACAS.

SO TME ADDITIGNAL HOCUMENT MEPORTS THAT IN CONVERSATION USTH

COSTA RICAN FOREIGN MINISTR GONZALO FACIO, SMILEAN AMBASSADOR TO

COSTA RICA JORGE ARANDA PARAN

HAS TOLD THAT "CONZIDENTIAL

FUNCTIONARLES OF THE UOS, EMBASSY" HAD ADVISED PHE COSTA RICAN

BOVERNMENT THAT AN ULTSA-RIGHTIS: PLOT, LED aY BOSCH. WAS BEING

ORGANIDED SA GUATEMALA TO OVERTARON THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT,

¡¡PAGIO MENT ON TO SAY BOSCH CLAIPED TO BE SUPPORTED BY THE QUATRMALAN

RECORO COX

9700+16

1901-299298

---

## Page 18

14-00000

50040

SEEI

69a0

91101

PAGE 08

YOM20100S0 OCT V0

IN 000000

AND EMIGRAN COVENAMENTO ON PASS PLOTO ME ADDEO TOAT OF COUNSO

MUITOER ME NON PRESIDENT ODUBER PLACEU ANY CREDUNCE IN INIS CLAIMA

TEN PNE COSTA RICAN DOVERAMENT MAD INVESYIGATEDO

SO ACCORDING TO AMBASSADOR AMANDA, PACIO SUGGESTED TO MIN THAT TMO

CMILEAN COVENNMENT MARE AN EFFORT TO ANCOVER DOSCHIS ALLAN CHILEAN

DOCUMENTATION FROM QUATENALAN PULACE AUTMORITICNO TAE DOCUMENT DONN

NOT SAY CAND TORO DID NOT KNOWI UNY QUATEMALAN AUTMORITIGS MAD THI

DOCUMENTS, RUT APPARENTLY BOSCH RETAINED THEM WHIN HE WAB EXELLED

PRON' COSTA RICA,

_DEFERS.

TO MOS ON HOW TO MANDLE THIS ENIORMATION

COPIES OF BOTH DOCUMENTS BEING FOUCHED & NOVENGER

---

## Page 19

•ASE 09

001000

10487d0096 96120..

• 07.

¡BUDOBEr USIMO POGLONINO AB ALTERNATE SOUACE DESCRIPPION 1P

POSSIOLET

J8S APPEMPTING TO IDENTIFY SANTIAGO ADDRESSINNICH

APPEARS AS

MARGINAL NOTATION IN REF @ DOCUMENT.

FUDOUBLE -49

SDENTIFSED MANDHRITING AS THAT OF COLONEL ENRIQUE VALDER PUGA.

VICE MINISTER OF FOREION RELATIONS, MHO MAD DOCUMENT IN HIS

POSSESSION: EVER SINCE IT RECEIVED BY FOREIGN MINISTRY SUDOUBLE-AD

DID NOT: KNON OF EXISTENCE QF REF & DOCUMENT UNTIL 15 OVTODER, WASN NE

MOTED REFERENCE TO SP IN THE SECOND DOCUMENT DESCRIBED ABOVED»

ADDRESS 88 MIQUEL CLARO 1120. APARTMENT DOL

OPERATING ON

ADBUMATION BE POSSIOLY BOSCHOS SANTIAGO ADDRESS

06/108600

20102902021 19-5-1116 E26 IMPDET;

201-299292

---

## Page 20

S10n

99/40, %s6

555102

Sen fia

00200

a101020899d6 600 Po

SECRET HOOSE OGY TO DIANE

CIVi

1001

as acron.

11 OCTONIO PHAP ONLANDO

' DAS-S-M AVILA MAS ADMITTEN TO

DOODO AROMANS IMPIE DI BUCHIONE SANDS ORON BAL MITM SOONROS

THE BUMAING DEATM DE CALANO LATEL

IN MASMINGTON ON

81 SEFTENDER 1976, MODI ACEUINED ADONE IN DISCUSBIONS NIPH DISID

OFFICERS RNOWLEDGEAGLE OF DISIP INVESTIGATION OF DOSCHLAS

¡YET THERE ARE NO AMPLIFYINU DETAILS ON ZENFACT AND OFFICERS

D10

NOT NOTE TO WHOM SPECIFICALLY ADMISSION HAS MADE.

SUGGEST ADOVE BE PASSED TO FOLS LE APPROPRIATE.

FILE: 201-89337241 220-10 20304s EQs IMPORT,

10107990222

- DO HOT DESTROY

---

## Page 21

QUIGOING MESSAGE

SHaB

•

10.0

charlies

. FEDIA DUELAN OF TOVESTIG

OMGATIND

80V88+8608118D8V1SIO0.V

SECRET-DARMIME MONICE-SENSITIVE SNECLLIGENER SOURCES AND ME. MODS

INVOLVED--NOT HELLASABLE TO FOREIGN MATIONALS NOT PELCASAOLE TO

COOVRACIONS OF MUCONTR

CTORACONTULTANTEY

PIOCI-ONY

•COMPASS DETUCEN ORLANDO DOSEN AND THE MOVO BROTHERS IN

AJANE SHORTLY DCPORE THE ASSASEIMATION OR ORLANDO LETELIER !

&. SINCE HIS'ARPEST EN IS OCTOBER 2976 ORLANDO A O'S ENI

AVILA• CUBAN EXILE LEADER- HAS ADMITTED TO ANTOFFICIAL OF THE

VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND.

PREVENTION EDISIPS THAT HE HAD CONTACT HITH THE SENOVO BROTHERS

I MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LE TELES

401g

FILE COPY PON

49492

DO NOT DESTHOY

BUENON SY OTHER THAN THE INSURE OFFICE A PROMAMO

IMPOIT

810p.

---

## Page 22

MESSAGE

SCOREI

0000:

934175

JORACH: CHILCAN ANDASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES.

COMPENTO ACCORDING TO A MUMOER OR PRESS ARTICLES, IGMAGIO

novo

AND GUILLERRO M @ YO MAVE OLEN CHARGED BY SEVERAL OR THEIR

CONPATRIOTS IN VINCZUELA AS BLING RESPONSIOLE POR THE ASSASSINA

PION OF ORLANDO LATELIER 39 IS BELIEVED THAT YOUR MASHES BUREAU

MAS ADDITIONAL INPOURMATION ON THE NOVO BROTHERS• ISNACIO AND

11 21

GUILLERMO • BY

DO CLASSIPIED BY REGARDED REFORTING OPFICER. XGAS-HON

"3wh

BASED ON!

IN 080249

WISCARLET CUKSCARLET-17}

CE/REAL

TELECOORD!

CLAIRR

* ES SUARESTS ADDITIONAL DISGTITO MU

CAT: 27 OCTOBER 7E

LAASUCH

1347}

foes

PROVVC FiON OT

@THIN TAL

---

## Page 23

OUTGOINT MESSAGE

19-2

on o

SCARET

30011

/ops

0

432740

DeSSER 07. 77

men Sol

0 132

POL IMMEDIATE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION INTELLIGENGE

DIVISION SINTDID.

SCE RE TUNARMING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED - NOT PELEASABLE TO POREIGN NATIONALS Y

SUBJECTI

ARRIVAL. IN PUERTO RICO OF CUBAN EXILE GUSTAVO CASTILLO Y

CIR-316/03983-76 4

DO THE POLLSUING INFORMATION ACQUIRED ABROAD IS FOR YOUR

EMFORMATION AND UHATEVER ACTION YOU DEEM APPROPRIATE. IT IS FELT

THAT THE SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT MAY BE INVOLVED IN INTERNATIONAL

TERRORISM. ON J5 OCTOBER 1976 GUSTAVO."

CASTILL O DOB 24

Anto sint to. FB

APRIL 1946. MAVANA, CUBA, U-S- PASSPORT NUMBER 1764302, ARRIVED SANTO

DOMINGO FROM CARACAS ON VIAS: 970. AS CASTILLO LISTED BY LOCAL

AUTHORITIES AS BELONGING TO TERRORIST GROUP ODORLAND BOS CHO

ME WAS NOT ALLOWED ENTER DOMINICAN REPUBLIC; AUTHORITIES PLANNED Fe

PUT CASTILLO ON RETURN FLIGHT TO CARACAS. JUP THEY ACHIESED TO HIS

REGUEST TO BE PUT ON IS OCTOBER DOMINICAN AIRLINES PLIGHT GOS TO

PUERTO RICO BECAUSE HEIS AN AMERICAN. 'CASTILLO IS REPORTED TO SE

MILITARY

CORAN NATIONAL LIBERATION PRONT.

IT APPEARS MIS

DATE

Whal

DOC. MICRO. EER.

316/0.397 26

(1. 1)

MOY 191976

236et 16

MICROFILMEO

201-299292

OTMBELTHAR

IBSUNO OPTICE IN MOMETEO

5. 8:

IMPOSTE

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 24

OUTGOING MESSAGE

ONF:

0

SEGREE

0

14

CIA

FILI

932740

• DEPARTURE FROM CARACAS COINCIDES UITH PICKUP Or BOSCH' IN VENERZUELA. Y

CASTILLO WILL BE SENT SEPARATELY. V

3*

CLASSIFILD BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.

BASED ON:

22 OCTOBER 76°

CABLE SEC:

.: PLS MAKE COS COPY AVAILABLE TO IP/AN FOR 203-299292-

12224

C 6 • NO

22.061 76

LT/CAR

AGG/DEO.

STCLECOORDS

CTELICOORDS

A V OVNEN THAN THE

---

## Page 25

1.58 006%

tut sEc o sseu di fa

W30R SAri WOT

POASSE CON

CTrat Wa:T

SLAB

reTe: 53018: 238

SECZET

©Tol Tat

OAITES

ASTAFFR

FILE

Sfhosfis

E14987

T 3246÷2

wat -la

0/ck-y. cpsfa)

cpis

ipsc, ysin!

PAGE 21

Án: TOR8221006₴ 0CT 76

IN 078263

S E C R E:8 2239622 OET 26 SPAFF

CITE

,TO: ! DIRECTOR.

NNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL

REF :

DIRECTOR 031119

1•

ASSUMES (BASED ON REFORTING

• THAT

POSSIBILITY OF CORU INVOLVEMENT IN LETELIER SLAYING IS UNDER

ACTIVE LNERGE INVESTIGATION. CORU LEGDER ORLANDO BOSCH LIVED

•IN SANTO DOMINGO SEVERAL MONTHS BEFORE HIS DEPORTATION ON

29 AUGUST:

MIGH RANKING CORU MEMDER EULALIO FRANGISCO OFRANK)

C ÀS'T R O PAZ 1201-7A23651, A U.S. CITIZEN MARRIED TO A.

DOMINICAN. LÁVES IN SANTO DOMENGO, VIEM IN EMPYREX AND EMHISÉ.

BASED IN CARE ON CASTRONS PATTEAN OF EXTENSIVE TRAVELE 1S TNAT

ME 1S BOSCHIS CONTAGT MAN

AND MESSENGER CARRIERÜTO CUBAN RIONYEST

GROUPS THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA.

PROPOSES CONCENTRATE

EN DEVELORENO INFORMATION ON CORU AND ROLE OF PRANK CASTRU.

INCLUDINO POSSIBLE RESORTITO PELEPMONE PAPS, NITH MAJOR

ODUECTIVEOR DETERMININO IE CORU INVOLVED ON ITE OHN OR A

Gnoo0

OiLE COrY TON

BEMEST PORGION PONEA IN CETÜLIER MURDEÇI ,

R0I• 6170K12-

B, VOCLOHING CONTAGIS/AESETE MIGHT DE ABLE TO CONTRIEUTE

1I0 MUT DOMTROY

• .ea.. "+

---

## Page 26

14-00000

фр°а:

C=ES

SECHET

BISS SO WAIT MOTIO

SUES BLOTTEE

Wout

FILE.

VR

ACTION.

324692

E1A987

PAGE 22

TOR: 221926₴

0CT 76

TO EFFORTS.

4. EMPYREX-20

EMpETCh=9

/ CA EMCLIFPER -1

D• EMPYREX-2

: EMPYREX -8

Fi: EMGRANET- 1

EMPYREX-14.

A PROPOSE FOLLOWING ACTIONS:

ISTAFF

IN

878163

SDOM 17803

---

## Page 27

14-00000

AN= 05328 00

"SOUT 10P0eS

-968538 CC.

C0BE8

SHOT OTHER THE

FIC® 15 @ПОРІВ

STAFFI

RE : FILE.

VR

ACTICA•

4246+2

Elater

PAGE

23-23

T07:2219267 OCT 76

IN 078163

D.: HAVE EMGARNET-I

STEP UP HIS CONTAGES IN

SARTE: DOMPAGO AND ELSEWHERE WITH CUSANS KNOWN TO SYMPATHIZE WITH

BOSCHO WOULD PLAN HAVE ENGARNET-I TRAVEL TO MIAMI TO CONCENTRATE

ON DEVELOPING LEADS. IN THIS GASE• HE SHOULD BE IN REGULAR

TOUCH

E. USE: EMPYREX-34

LEADS

FROM KEY CONTACT

TO OBTAIN PHONE NUMBERO

I MAINTAIN CAPABILITY

N. FILES 200-12-29911: 261-0811180 201-299-2926 201-743363;

E2• IMPOET.

23 724!

---

## Page 28

14-00000

sore as 22 - 2gor

SECRET

OTHER

Pao date

PAOMIBITED

895301918, ROTTED.

ISSUED 6L01

ON A

C/P3/E0a

1 324885 , 814383

STAFF

is!

c/05G, f/SLA2,

CORSIITOY.

TOR: 221529₴ 06

293

"IN 877831

SE CRE 8: 2214542 OCT 76 STAFF

CI TE

1vSa

POI DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL, RYBAT FUDWELL

REFILE DE RECTOR 851118

• 10 FOLLOWING KEYEDITO PARA 3 REF REQUEST!

AL DELIEVE ERYTHROS RA MAY BE ABLE TO SHED LIGHT ON

POSSIBLE: RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN PERSONS SUEN AS 20Ï

DALANDO BOSCO

SONAVE AND THE NICARAQUAN GOVERNMENT I GOND: VIW FACT

PRESIDENT SOMOZA OPENLY SUPPORTIVE OF CUBAN EXILES AND

THEER OBUCTIVES, IT PROBABLE HE OR MIS AGENTS, SUCH

AD MANUEL ARP IME QUESAO NOT ADVERSE TO ALLOWING

EXILES TO USE NICARAGUA AR A SAFEHAVEN AND/OR SUPPORT

DASE. CURRENT CON ATTITUDE PERHAPS DEST UXEMPLIPTED

BY PARDY ANSWER RE

DARIAS OF 26S$0629a pROVIDED

DY URTMROID JO AND REPORTED %0 HOS

ALSO LOOK FORWARD PO RACHIDO OR BAMADAYS BOSPILE

CANNED DURING

WHO. MAY DR

ABLE PROVIDE BOMB USAPUL INGLONT INTO LOCAL EXILE

GO MMUNITY.

076 - LA

---

## Page 29

16: 817

8 85 80ES

8018LC0048

_SECRET

JAUNTIE BFFICE

HENSONUT DOTED.

SI: AUCE COM iSSUEDSLOTIEO

RF: FILE.

ST AFFI

VR

to 324085

• E1 A383

PAGE

02

IN 077831

TOR12215292 0C116

B. HILL TASK ERYTHHOID-IS WITH ABOVE REQUIREMENT:

ALSO PLAN TO DISCUSS MATTER WITH FRUTHROID -33 TO GET CURREN

GON LINE: BELIEVE THIS

MAY ALSO LEAD ERYTHROID-3 TO DISCUSS SUBJECT WITH

ERYTHROID-13 WHO MAY ES ABLE TO ELICIT INFORMAPION

RELATING TO REF.

2. - WOULD APPRECIATE HOS DESK RYLEWINO 201 FILES

IN EPPORT LOCATE CUBAN EXILE OR OTHER

INDIVIDUAL: WHO IN PAST PROVIDED ACCESS TO LOCAL EXILE COMMUNITY.

N3 i go

"RE PARA REFI

POSSIBLE

EFFORTS

HAY TERN

HENF ORBATI ON

FRAME CASTRO

INTEREST ON 201-742365

DEPENDING ON NHAT INFORMATION MAY TURN UR INITIALLY, PLEASE

ND VI SO IT

MAY CONQUET FOLLOWUP IWVESTIGATION AND HON

INTORMATION ON THIS PERSON SHOULD BE RECORDED:

VAND

REPORTED TO HOB,

PILA 8880120308/80 880 AMPOOP.

2.3r.5

---

## Page 30

1099D080

7.5-6086

===-

SECRET.

LA 13

SS.4. OSGIC a _2

E1A200

T 323998

PAGE 01

MITORI221444& OCT 86

SE CR EP. 2214138 OCT

MORINTEL

CITEL

TO: DIRECTOR INFO

• WNINTEL

SUPDATA:

IN 077740

TDF IRDE-335/10576-76

ERWAHDO FOR MOS REVIEW. PLEASE CALL THE INFORMATION

IN PHIS REPORE TO THE ATTENTION OF AMBASSADORL

INDEX: BOSCH AND OTERO. CL BY 84869.

FILE: 15-5-1/1.

FILEDS 3, 2214132

IID COMMENTS LIFTER CABLE SENT. SENT ELECTRICALLY TO S&S PER DESK REQUEST.

1427

10126:2292

AO, NOT DRATEOS

---

## Page 31

14-00000

Intelligence Int nation Culla E pesem

WAAAINO NUTIL

ENSITNI ETELLICISCE SI ICÃO AND MATTOS LANGLIO I

NATI IN IS'ME ORA, CLAMALE SUO ESO PRAS MACO IDI INO CASA PAGHI OF A PAGES

UlTRE DISSEMINATION AND USE DE INS INFORMAIION SLANCI !

THIS IS AN INFORNATON APORT, NOT FIMALIY EVALATLO INTELLICI

SECRET

OTE TOF8: D8-385/80576-16

¡¡ DI 221OCTODER 19A

REPORT CLASS SEGRETO NARNING NOTICE •SENSITIVE INPELLIGENCE

SOURCESI AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT MELEASABLE TO FORE IGN

MATSONALS"-NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR COMTRACTORA

CONSULTANTS

COUNTRYS CHILE

DOTALE MID-APRIL TO MID OCTOBER 1976

SUBJEGTSCCHILEAN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CUBAN EXILE

LEADERS ORLANDO BOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO

SOURCE 1!

SEE BELOW,

COMMENTS

Sº OCTOBER REPORTED THAT THE CHILEAN MINISTRY OF FOREION

APPAIAS MAD BEEN KEEPING AN EYE ON THE AGTIVITIES OF CUBAN

AXILE LEADER ORLANDO

Bene:

003E H. IND WAS NOW REVIENINO ALG

1?8 INPORMATION, PREBUMABLY IN LIGHT OR HIS RECENT ARREST IN

VENEZUELA:)

ON S8 OCTOBER, FOREIGN MINISTRY ORFICIALS ASSEMOLOD

---

## Page 32

SECRET

N: 59779

SDARNO-1:5/10576-76

race a unia paces

A GULE ON DONCE AT TIA DEOUEST OF ADMIRAL PATRICIO

MIMISTER DO COHEIGN APPALAS THE MILE

CONSISTS RAINLY ON ESCHANGES ON CORRESDONDEICE DEPHEEN THN

CHILEAN

IMDASSY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA MICA, AND THE CORGION

MINISTRY

COACERNING BOSCM'S ARGEST IN SAN JOSEJIN MARCH 1976.

AND THE FACT

THAP ME HAD GAILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS IN HIS

POSSESSION.

PHE DOCUMENTS INGLUDED A BIRTH CERTIFICATE, IDENTITY

CARDO PAN IDENTIFICATION CARD AND PASSPORT, ALL IN THE NAME.

OF RICARDO RAMON DAVINZO GERUTI, PHE PASSPORT WAS

ISSURD IN CHILE IN 1900. AND HAD NEVER BEEN RENENED.

COMMENTA CHILEAN PASSPORTS NORMALLY REQUIRE RENEMAL EVERY

THO VIARS.!

THE PASSPORT CONTAINED ONE CHILEAN EXIT STAMA.

DAYSO COGO AND NO INDIÇATION THAT IT HAD SUBSEQUERTEY BEEN.

USED TO ENTER OR EXIT CHILE. IT CONTAINED MANY EXIT AND ENTRY

STAMPS INDICATING EXTENSIVE TRAVEL BY ITS BEARER IN CENTRAL

AMERICA AND PALAMA, BETHEEN 1966 AND MARCH 1970, THE PASSPORT

AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION, WAS SHOWN TO CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS

IN BAN JOSE BY COSTA RICAN OFFICIALSO HOWEVER, THE IÇOSTA

RICANS DID: NOT GIVE THE DOGUMENTS TO THE EMBASSY OFFICIALS,

---

## Page 33

14-00000

11244919 599

DIVE UTILICENDE NO ASO MITORA NPOLIRO

SECRET

• : C7779.

D0e-31530576-50

PAGO A OF U PAGES

---

## Page 34

14-00000

077

Taril BO-315/10576- 1

SECRET

-

Boil

DISSEMI EMBASSY

SENT YO

REPORT CLASS SECRETO WARNING NOTICES-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED -NOT RELEASABLE TO PORGIGN

NATIONALSOONOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACORS OR CONTRACTOR,

COASULTANTS

CLASSIFIED OY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS OL, 2.

ADVANCE COPY TRAINSMITTED TO STATE DIA ARM NAVY AIR NES SUS NSA SS/ID FBI TREAS

CIA OPSCEN:

---

## Page 35

OUTGOING MESSAGE

0

3000388

DOSICIANO

931679

0/38.-

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.Y

SIC CRE TO-HARMING NOTICE-SINSATIVE SNILLEAGERLE SOURGES DID

METHODS INVOLVED POT BELTASABOLE TO FORCION NATIONALS

P8RCS-116/03327-76

SUBUECTIQVIEU OP INE SOSTA RICAM CONMUNIST MAPTY ON THE ASSASSINA-

TION OP ORLANDO LETELIER AND SUDSEAUENT ARREST OP ORLANDO DOSCH Y

DURING THE 23-2S OCTOBER 1976 PLENUM OF THE PUP, SENIOR

PARTY OFFICIALS COMMENTED THAT ORLANDO LE TEL IT.R. FORMER

DiTLE ANBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES, HAD BEEN KILLED BY RIGHTIST

CUBAN EXILES BASED IN MIAMI AND UNDER THE DIRÉCTION OF ORLANDO

BOS CM AVILA. ONE OF THE PARTY LEADERS SAID THAT THE CHILEAN

MATIONAL DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE EDINAL MAD DIRECTLY FINANCED

BOSCH'S GROUP IN THIS EFFORT AS IT HAD IGNE PREVIOUSLY IN THE

DATE I

4. 095 Mile

UNTA

=01-299292

DO NỘG DON

• P:

TITt

a foul (

IMPRODUCTION BY OTHAR THAN THE ISSUMO OPPICE IN PROMBITIO

• 3

IMPDET

19919988948

---

## Page 36

OUTGOING MESSAGE

18!

SEIS HSI

€IA/DD0

935433

ABORTIVE AVIEAPE IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RECA, TO KILL INTS ARRES

PASCAL ALLENDE, PORDER SCORETARY GLUERAL OR THE NOVENCHT OR

THE REVOLUTIONARY LEFT CMIRS.Y

CLASSSFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OPFICER. XGDS-2I1

BASED ONI

IN 08369|

HURUM BILRUN

OBJ:

GATE I

14 OCTOBER 297k

JUNITI

CLA/SU/CH/KK

1474

11409.1

ACALAINCA

CALARR

CLARIA. -

MEIMPLAN: 102M 09 00110

199A1рE П00 10р-100

L

---

## Page 37

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

18-1

S C C.R.E T

3930328.

1934832

com /A8 uno. oe VEtaN

$612 0003 000/00

ILSAO OAWUT

on, у en o

0: 48

POI •PRIORITY PEDCRAL BURCAU OP INVESTIGATIONILATTMI, R.K• MCHARGUER

GENERAL IINVESTIGATIVE DIVISSON. DEPT OP STATCASVIRIPIO, SECRET

SERVICEVINTELLIGENCE DIVISION.Y

SECRET-WARNING NOPSCE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND MCTHODS IM-

VOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FORCIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELLASABLE TO

CONTRACTORS: OR COMTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF

INPORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATORY

PIRET-352/03225-76Y

chile

SUBJECTO ADDITIONAL DATALON CHILLAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS USED BY

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILAY

HE OBTAINED THIS

IMPORMATION PROM A POREIGH RINISTRY OFFICIAL NHO SAU THE DOCUMENT.

THIS INFORMATION IS HOTITO BE DISCUSSED MITH OR USED TO ELICIT INFOR-

MATION FROM OFFICIALS OF ANY POREIGN GOVERNMENT, INCLUDING THOSE OF

THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT. YiG

COMMENTOU

HCS-10,772 &TDFIRDB-315/3057763 FROM THE

DATll!

emcd

WnFT!

.WeT:

-EGWCIT

RECORD CUPY

FAPRCRUCTION UY OTMUN YHAN THE IGEUIS OFPICH IS PRO

290ct76

501-299292

PPERS

1 8г

IMPDET

CL. BY8 010953

---

## Page 38

OUTGOING MESSAGE

D

SECRET

934832

RIPORYCD CHILCAN CONCERN OVER THE FACT THAY ORLANDO

DOS CIN AVILA MAD DECO ARRESTCO IN COSTA RICA IN CARLY SOM

CARRYING CHSLEAN IDCAPITY DOCUMENTS, THES REPORT PROVIDES PULL

DETAILS OF THE INCIDENT AS REPORTED AT THE TINE OT THE SMILEAN CABASSY

IN' SAN JOSE, COSTA RICADY.

DATED S6 MARCH 1976, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA MAS

ARRESTED IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA ON SÓ PEBRUARY SATL ON SUSATEION OP

BEING TAVOLVED IN A PLOT AGAINST THE UNITED STATES SECRETARY ON SPATE.:

BOSCH HAS CHARGED WITH HAVING ENTERED COSTA RICA ILLEGALLY USING

DOCUMENTATION IN TEHE NAME OF NECTOR EMILIO RAMON

DD A

CINTOLESI: AS OF S6 MARCH 1976, BOSCH WAS UNDER DETENTION IN

CARTAGO, COSTA RICA. THE ZUSTA RICAN GOVERMMENT BAS STUDYING. THE

POSSIerLITY er EXPELLING HEM BUT HAD BEEM UMABLE TO PINO A EOUNTRY

WILLING TO ACCEPT HIM. Y

WHEN ARRESTED.

BOSCH WAS CARRYING THE FOLLOUING CHELEAN

IDENTITY DOCUMENTS:

LA BIRTH CERTIFICATE IN THE NAME OF HECTOR EMILIO RAMON

19T8

SECHE:

ASPROBUE LA PY OTHER THAN THE IBBUING OFFICE 0 099

---

## Page 39

14-00000

MESSAGE

Petal

98458%

0.

DAVANZO CINTOLESS• ASIVI DY TNE CIVIL REGISTRY OFFICE OFITNE OUENTA

MORMAL SA SANTIAGO SURUNOS AN A AUGUST SUINO IME CORTIPECATE NAS

SIGNCO OY ALOCATO &A

1A LA A CIVIL REGISTRY SECTION CHICP. AND

REPLCETCO A DIRTH DAPE OT

• AUGUST 3928, REGISTRY NUMBER 953 OF THE

LAS BARRANÇAS LA LOVER-CLAIS SANTIAGO SUOURBS INSCRIPTION OPFICE, THE

PARENTS MORE IDCNTIPICO NE MECTOR

•DAVANZO AND AMALIA ENRIQUETA

CINTOLESI.Y

•. CHELEAN IDENTITO CARD MUMBER 2357422, ISSULD IN SANTIAGO.

THE CARD ALSO LISTED ATAN IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OR 2, 357, 422-5.

_COMMENTI NO DATEOF ISSUANCE MAS REPORTED FOR THIS ITEMiO Y

C. AN AUTOMOBILE TITLE POR À SINCA 1000, ISSUEO BY THE SANTIAGO

PROPERTY REGISTRY OFFASCION 28 SEPTEMBER 3966 AND BEARING

REGISTRY

38 D.

CHILEAN ORDINARY eRED COVERs PASSPORT NUMBER 26583, ISSUED

aS SEPTEMBER 3975, IN THE NAME OF MECTOR EMILIO RAMON DAVANZO

CINTOLESI. -THE PASSPORT CONTAINS PRINTING OFFICE REGISTRY NUMBER

34443-3975. AND THE SIGNATERES OF VICTORIA MORAN DOREN AND

MARIA ELENA SEL NAN AS ISSUING OFFICERS. IT CONTAINS THE

DATI:

atte

ATO OPIADI

AMPRCOUETION DY OTHER THAN THE LOBUIMO OPACE E PROMETEO

1 4a

INPDET

Ch: BY: 016952

---

## Page 40

14-00000

OUlGOING

MESSAGE

oN : 0

SECRET

NO: 10

934832

10 -

APPROPRIATE TAX STAMPS, MATERMARKSS AND SEAL ON THE PHOTOGRAPH.

SE THE CHILEAN PASSPORT CARRIED BY BOSCH CONTAINED ENTRY AND

CHIT STAMPS INDICATING THE FOLLOWING TRAVELS

A. EXST PROM CHILE VIA PUDAHUEL INTERMATIONAL AIRPORT ON

30 DECENDER 3925.Y

BO ENTRY AND EXIT FROM PANAMA VIA TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

ON 29 DECENDER 1975. Y

"COM CNTRY IN EL SALVADOR ON 29 DECEMBER 1975•

PLACE OF ENTRY OR SUSSEQUENT EXIT UAS RECORDEDDY

COMMENT. NO

Do

ENTRY IN COSTA RICA ON ? JANUARY 19760

COMMENTi NO

• PLACE OF ENTRY HAS REPORTED SY

• EXIT FROM COSTA RICA AND ENTRY INTO NICARAGUA ON 30 JANUARY

177h0:

COMMENTS NO "UPLACE OF EXIT OR ENTRY LAS REPORTED. $ Y

EXIT

'FROM NICARAGUA AND ENTRY INTO COSTA RICA ON 6 FEBRUARY

3976°

GUNMENT:

NO PLACE OF EXIT OR ENTRY WAS REPORTED.DY

TROSSH REMAINED IN SAN JOSE PROM & FEBRUARY 2T26 UNTIL MIS

ARREST ON

LO FEBRUARY 8976-

" ACCORDING TOI

ISAN JOSE, BOSCH OBTAINED THE FALSE IDENTITY

DATO •'

00 Te

BAT:

SECRCT

A PROBUE NOT OMEN THAN THE LABUMS GRUE PRESER

= 8)

a.:. d98927

---

## Page 41

QUIGOING MESSAGE

CHORE!

934832

000

DOCUMENTS: FROM A FRIEND IN CHILE WHO IS A COLONEL I

BRANCHES OF THE CHILEAN ARMED FORCES.

COMMENTS THE SECRET

SOURCE OF THE CHILEAN EMBASSY AS NOT IDENTIFIED. BUT CONSIDERING THE

PACT THAT THE SOURCE ALLOWED À CHILEAN EMBASSY OPPICER TO EXAMINE

BOSEN'S FALSE IDENTITY DOCUMENTS, IT HAS PROBABLY COMZALO PACIO,

COSTA RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER. IT IS NOT KNOWN IF IN FACT THE CHILEAN

EMBASSY'S SECRET SOURCE FAILED TO PROVIDE THE IDENTITY OF THE CHILEAN

• COLONEL OR IF THE PREPARER OF THE REPORT PHRASED IT IN THIS

MANNER IN ORDER TO VOTE DIPPICULTIES. GITH MIS SUPERIORS -24

DO THE REPORT WAS SIGNED BY FRANCISCO CRUZ PACHECO, CHILEAN

CHARGE IN SAN JOSE.

COMMENT: CRUZ IS NORMALLY THE CHILEAN

CONSUL IN SAN JOSE, BUT HAS CHARGE IN MARCH 1976 DUE TO THE ABSENCE

•OP THE AMBASSADOR ON LEAVE. IN OCTOBER 1976, GENZ WAS SUDDENLY RE-

CALLED PROM SAN JOSE SHORT OF TOUR, AND IS EXPECTED TO ÁRRIVE IN

SANTRACO, IN LATE OCTOBER. THE REASON GIVEN MITHIN THE POMEIGN

MINISTRY FOR CRUZ' RECALL IS THAT A NIECE OF PRESIDENT AUGUSTO

PINOCHET HAD OCÇASION TO REQUEST CONSULAR ASSISTANGE FROM HIM

DURING A PRIVATE VISIT TO COSTA RICA. AND FOUND HIN HABSENT FROM HIS

WIT!

DODUCTION OY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IN PRONA

201 299292

IMPOIT

CL UY:

---

## Page 42

OUTGOING MESSAGE

ORP: 0W

.0

SECREI

934839

000

DISSENT

PER

OFFICE DURING NORMAL WORKING HOURS.

UNDER CURRENT CONDITIONS IN THE

CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTRY: THIS IS A PLAUSIBLE EXPLANATION, AND THERE

IS NO CONTRADICTORY INFORMMATION AVAILABLE- JU

8.: THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO THE UNITED

STATES AMBASSADORS

AND THE LEGAL

ATTACHE

BASED ON

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER XEDS-2• *

•IN 0816401

HCS-10-7751

FUSMIRK {FUDQUBLE -49%

008

LONG.

WITe

26 OCTOBER 19%%

E7LA/SE7CH

7473

CLARe f. C. Borin

CA.A/OP

ES/LA/PNE

OVASE THAN THE INQUINO OPPING I0 C40

IMPORT

---

## Page 43

FBI CABLE

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE::.28 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION:

SECRET

SUM ECT:

VENEZUELAN PROTEST REGARDING ALLEGED

YBI INFORMATION WHICH APPEARED IN THE

N.Y. TIMES ON OCT. 24, 1976

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN

---

## Page 44

SECRET

(elen Folled 8e)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIF

ВОС: : § 70484

DIRECTOR 932728

по€.

SUBJECT

PLMHBLANKET

BCATION

22

Oct 76

73

6

BECOnD COPY

46

:: 13

SOURCE INFORMATION

BOUNCE CAYPTONTE

TEXT OF EXTRACT (AlDo ciro dos.

buideo, Diese». Ne..

PER 20 OCT 76 ISSUE OF WASHINGTON POST, ORLANDO BOSCH IS

DESCRIBED AS A RIGHT-WING CUBAN EXILE LEADER WHO IS ALLEGED TO HAVE

BEEN INTOLVED IN THE BOMBING OF THE CUBIN AIRPLANE ON 6 OCT AND THE

I MURDER OF ORLANDO LETELIER ON 21 SEPT. BOSCH IS APPARENTLY NOW

UNDER ARREST IN VENEZUELA AS A RESULT OF INVESTIGATIONS INTO THESE

ACTIVITIES. THE POST ARTICLE SAYS FLAT THEY BOSCH IS THE LEADER

OF AN ANTI-CASTRO UMBRELLA GROUP KNOWN AS THE UNITED REVOLUTIONARY

ORGANIZATION. BOSCH IS WANTED IN MIAMI FOR A PAROLE VIOLATION

STEMMING I FROM THE 1968 CONVICTION FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS.

Indieste The Subjeat, Project Or

201 211g No:

In which This

#Pore lo To Be Filed:

BUR185.90.900

fdase,

Flood, wadled:

BOSCH•

Orlando Avala

670 000.8

201•

2092021

DECRET

f9e 41

---

## Page 45

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 27 SEPTEMBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVIJA

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D:C.)

---

## Page 46

14-00000

CAME THE iSEN

PERSONAT

38-1.

SECRET

ACTION WANT

LAB

9 32 27 32

DILLOTIED

RE. FILE .

v. TP/C2, 2003, Risc/000,

07E/IT61, NE8, C14, Z3/Egz OS6,

ETA147

PAGE 01-01

T0R82210258 ACT 76

ISTACE

MIN 876560

SE CRIE P 211541Z OCT

76 STAFF

CITE

70 &

INFO DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL REAM HUFABRIC MNSPIKE

OBTAINING DETAILS COSTA RICAN PASSPORT REPORTEDLY USED BY

ORLANDO BOS CH AVILA TO ENTER VENEZUELA.

_ HAS TRIED

TO OBTAIN INFO DIRECTLY FROM VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES WITHOUT

SUCCESS.

ZONANY DATAL

RICAN PASSPORT

MAY BE ABLE TO PROVIDE ON THE COSTA

WILL DE APPRECIATED,

261300703) 18-6-2013.

Ha IMPDET

# Yeste

RECORD COPY

D18-6-20/3

21Oc116

2291-299-0272

---

## Page 47

14-00000

DIE T

Terrorist Plot by Rightist Cuban Exiles See

Ry Simane Omang

Cuban terrorist plans were elscovered

In a raid on a private home in Caracas

18-

CARNCAY, Vonesuela, De%.

Vorosudian pullre have

What Ihey hollero to be mule ranging

plane bo right wing Cuban pulles

-PAIFT

nue peerariat-atraike-in

the

United #tales.and-ein

ithee: maliens,

#renting'to a newspaper remirt here.

The rossertent Caracao

newspaper

Al Vormnal sard tatas that the al.

bonord lorrorint

afte

bv

#nonte Ineldest the billen st tortands

during the Intestigation of the Cuban

plane eragh.

The reported terrorist

arts were planner to lake plare in the

L'nited

Slalee.

Venezuela,

and Tobago: Barhados.

TrinIdad

Gujana,

Pan-

ama

ant Colombia. cine. newspaper

said. Pait arts relied to these plans

inclurter the

bombins

of Gusana's

consulale in Trinidad and Tohazo, ne-

enrdine in the norapaper account.

The wide rancina terrorist plans re

ported by El Nacional today were the

dee In

the Entert Statra. In

Washing.

the

Dumbing

Barhadus Urt.

* Th

alled 78 persona

Ven

nave already ar

• Posted a sTouD of anti-Castro

Cubans

keel ulina

right wind

Cuhan

leslee

Roach, In

connection

with the l'uban plane crash. Ml least

I persons have been arrested by Ver.

mudden escrily agente and shoul 30

latest de elopment in a broad investi-

gation in several nations of the Lete-

Her killing. the Cuban plane crash

and other incidents.

Letelier, a former ambassador to

Washingion.

foreign minister and min-

ister of defense in the government ot

the late Chilean President

Salvador

Allende. died Sept. 21 whe; a bomb

exploded beneath fis car as he drove

Bione Washington's Embassy Row.

In Washington, surres close to the

arenrdina

United

Leteltep investication

nald Tuesday

"ORLANDO BOSCH

... detained la Venestela

I'roes International.

that they expert Brich to be returned

- In washington. murere rlane to:the

in the United. States and to be ques

-Investlantion of the homhine death of

tener abnut-Leteller's death. A State

Parmer Ambassaitor I. urf if have said

la'partment source sald the United

that Resh ls wanted for questioning.

States is unking Venezuela to return

Reart le nut, hnweror, regarled at

him informally as an undesirable al.

she time as a larges ot the lateller

Ien rather. than to 20 through lord.

extradition procedures.

anti-Castro umbrella group known #

the Coordination of United' Revolt

tlonary Organizations. He is wanted in

Silami. Fia, for a parole slolation

stemming from his 1800 conviction for

attacks on Polish and other foreign

Il Warlonal mold thee the plahten

= (Bonel ls the lender of a rightist

The Caracas ne

has previousis

prilles a

ented two

the "Sorus"-wim

The pape

to Ignacio

were indicted

fring a bas

The

quashed on the

around

Rexal

#titutional rients

confessons were

taken

Guillermo Sovo was

in connection with a 1959

amier in

eident and sentenred to 6 not isr

prisonment and 5 jears' probacion i

more could

learned

Lenacio

NOFE.)

In Carachs this week a list guver

ment source disclosed appare

between the presert

. Chie w

Junta and the Cuban erde commut

in tenezuela Critics of the Criteran

goverument hase acared il in Laking

part in

the Latelier. killitz- Chiem

officials have denied any Link to Leir

lier's death ass denounced it

ERE-

der.

Tar Venerrela

main that. te Chi

belped finsams

Catan

exiles

ernment of

"Were

there's no wig to do anytting about

10.° the

kare

10ta2n

- Irat

Bearde

LIKE 27

wage erast.

was cart!

the

atat прої

sid not

repuried

Studie

"trinit ta

tus de

FBI

to:

The Tashingtar Kist

20 October 19%6

---

## Page 48

14-00000

S...

CHI:

1º DOUS AGONSO, APSITE YI,

T 32 00 30:

EI AE 26

C/P/E62

PAGE 02-01

90R12819088 069 90

SECRET ILSE OTTSPAP

CITE

TOB PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

MINTEL RYDAY MHSPIKE INSTONE

WOULD LIKE TO HAVE AT OUR EARLIEST ICONVENIENCE

RESUME OF ORLANDO DO SOM 'S PRAVELE FROM BEGINNING OF 8974

TO PRESENT. HE IS PARTICULARLY INPERESTED IN ALLEGED TRIP TO CHILE

MMICH VENEZUELAN MINISTRY OF INTERIOR CONTACT HAS MENTIONED DURING

PALK ON CUBANA BOMBING CASE.

2 TIL'ES

201-0299292.

se

RECORD COPY

PaSPARE +A 11:050

CAME MLA (UD)

N0 (0

Tot Tut

+701-1999318

0 0 0076

---

## Page 49

14-00000

$ЕСEY

n0

U 4 NT

F ITEACY

==-=---

nis df ia

DATE O1 NOV

76

Caroeraelardate

penes

"Fhie A

09446974

201- 299292

E2

IMPDET CL AY 09497

---

## Page 50

OUTGOING MESSAGE 16-E

2057568

TRY TA

SPSIITOY

130679

@ 100

TOL PRIORITY

NUINTEL REAM MASPIKE TRACE V

REPS!

4:2240

161869843)

D. DIRECTOR MAZATHY

DO RE REF AU NES NAS EXTENSIVE TEACES. ON ORLANDO

DO SCH AVILA SPOS-O299Z9ZS, WHO IS LEADER OR CUBAN EXILE

TERRORIST ORGANIZAPION AND BELIEVED TO BE A DU:S, PERSON". NE

ASSUME BOSCH IS THC, BUSH. OP SEP A. SINCE BOSCM IS BELIEVED TO

BE A "U.S. PERSON, HONEVER, ME MUSHT COMPLY MITH REF E BEFORE

PASSING INFO

TO JAGUARD"

DO PLEASE PROVIDE THE DETAILS AND JUSTIFICATION REQUESTED

IN REPO SO ME CAN PROCESS JAGUAR'S REQUEST. Y

SO. PILE: 203-0299292. EE. IMPDETO M

LA COMMENTS REF AT REQUESTED PRIORITY TRACES ON BOSCH FOR

PASSAGE TO JAGUAR

REF D3

BOCK CABLE ESIST

IN PROVIDING GUIDANCE TO

STATIONS AND BASES ON COLLECTION: OF INFORMATION

CONCERKING "U.S. PERSONS"

20 Acti

211-24429

DATI A OCTOBER PL

ĐNCI

7808/2418

CUNTUC

IN BY OTHBA THAN THE ISSUME CYRICANS PRONMIT

-CL 091

---

## Page 51

10 0 v

PATA DOMA AIURIE

apeo Damense deruson la Boarie

ANI IL PIA

• On tem

81+8490992

0 te

ans sonal,

e Ben & nA

cia.

The danNy

PICAN 160B0 DUN

& 0#

The delay montsano ono eurpos polad

196k201

avere De

use lerles te MAnni I70 O 10 O0 76 11

'L'Inaldo Oro Ioin" comntory oy lafons Doreet

(#morte!

Anon 16e very beatanine, the roproaniva inalisuttone dreatod do oma

ongod the ordere of che 80 miot Hetnrion Himier.

forodes In the midoe of cho

none la comp.

"luo sno no Ita offlosad Pinotion the centraliention of

DIppy Che

deedatena or che v.8. prensdent. M

different lorth Ampion esotengo organisations 8o faellitale 808

Int thn book "'n Ondt of Intelligenon" ly Vieter Marchutes, a fermer nich ChA efflod

mammindong that nopplotally cho fandomntal maston of the cooney le te carry ot

ano ancione of the frenidens mich, 18 Implemntes by ostor publio bodien, conda d

• dispiacios.

avon thouch'1t |recruita ald typos of mercanartes, the estabisähed

• ep enn cIA ngent le the eco aterectypo of the euppord duperian of che 88

Darine tho tu epalnat the viotamo pople, the united statos sanpined in do enaioa

Etrulosto Miate antir paraintione of southem poneento me come perbiati ini

A nociol dopertuont of the sontral Intelligance Asonog hao Che onolunivo tant of

'Barrino u? nottone chat abrost, 100 erimiral nature

nuon as coupe d'atat

abroad,

of iuniore ans oshera;

to eppelento, The miniator ereditions

of the 80 Groopa and 100 modern contimnter...

Contras Intelligenco Agonoy, oofneide sn many emerete

wall.

---

## Page 52

Lil ma 4900 10 1008

• CA POLEO

2038ale

er danse

800 8N0 1ASY 6ON000ST06IO

00D0

BONES MACHO STASH CO MECHANIE PRE

0100

S8 & FON

Oute 8 allay

lA al J0888

w: "

#6a8ee

and 8a0tp to can

•$ 16m m00

deve

• of international.

nantame shas would forbid me

operaBlen of BRe Cuban dovernmen in altainine such a 1oal

BABB the PRO, the United 81

Pranen

and Orest Mritain

ce of enDisad invoatment ani

flow if technolontendl

not boon of me a a tre on one ninematten

boon delineated in the on chamer or in 1n8

erlotine the peoples prim unina (he

really

fao of the violenée

amoun

onso

pointe

to eping shim as th

ario 1iee has bin branterid into an, nopendage of

La Imponsibi®, AlPense Ball, Be Preten

• be dorendere

and at the same tine Dresses

a in other pincen.

1'S ITITIO OP INCHIANIE

spaniah 0000 aN 20 008 76 11

ta

ce D. Fares eatent

imperialian bia

by the united states has inervaninnty remoted to the

raftmont of t

reenaries

to attach legitimately coatstated governients er peoplea

Jing for Srooden. I Lat un rocall, for example, that in Vietna, nos, and

¿n the OrA roorasted what 16 euphondatiendly terund irregular forcen so

0 he

s6 in 100 effortelto, oruan the manive Insurrection of Che Indochanno Doobien

Bone carapded by the enemy.

tho Logicinato Dovernment of Patrice Lamba in she Confo, a coverma de-

ed do end the terrible soonome and nootal situation of the African populatien

by tho grandy nettons of the mining branationale and centuries of colonial

Untion, the imperi

damso almo uned corcenary armton;

The former Boleten

inom today

11 am.

continuos do pay the cencoquerain of these netton or

---

## Page 53

Pix.

DATE 27 OCT 76

3E313

•765

2202

27 163047 4

09446187

207- 299292

11849

E2. IMPDET CL BY 054979

60 57

---

## Page 54

STATE CARLES

FROM AMEMRASSY CARACAS

DATE: 19 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: | CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: VENEZUELA COVERAGE OF CUBANA CRASH AFTER

FROM AMEMBASSY SANTIAGO

DATE: 19 OCTORER: 1976

CLASSIFICATION:: CONFIDENTIAI

SUBJECT: LETELIER ASSASSINATION: ORLANDO BOSCH

---

## Page 55

is00, 118

-..

8003199

SECRET

A+49-7 94598-÷

LA 13

867109

VILE, VR, RD, PS/EG2, IP/AN, IID, OFS/INT'S

CI 4, SS 4. S5/S0G 4, OSG/IC 2I OPS/ITG 461

FR S

T. 314352

EAC26

PAGE 01

HT0R:1917572 06T 761

SCIR EY 191510Z OCT T6 INTEL

CITE

TOI DIRECTOR INFO

WN INTEL INTEL KMSTONEX

SUPDATAS: ERWANDO FOR RESOLUTION

IN PYJESS

TDF 1rDa-115/10454-16

F HVC-7521

Chile

FILED

19/1516₴

33322

SLIFTER SENT.

PERLA INSTRUCTION, FOLLOWING DELETED FROM SECOND.

SENTENCE OF FARA MITE THAT EN TEX?.

"HE IS A PAIRLY RELIADIS

REPORTER."

190cr

:629

OR €

L

---

## Page 56

Indigence liarrarion Car

O ReITI."

Nº 073239

Ag:*

DIBERICAN

OPE EATENI

FURTHER EISSEMINATION RIO USE OF TIMS INFEPMATION SUSIC TO

CONDOLS STATIO AI SIGNING DID END CITRIORI.

THIS IS AN INFOTAMTON REFORE, NOT FINALLY EVALLIED LIE FORCE

SECRET

ONE TEREDO 325410454-76

DIST 32 OCTORER_ 197%

REPORT CLASS S E CA EID WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE/INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASASLE FOR FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY

VENEZUELA

b018

MID-OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECTS VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT ATTEMPTS TO TIE THE SOCIAL

CHRISTIAN PARTY TO INDIVIDUALS LINKED TO THE BOMBING

OF A CUBANA AIRLINER

SOURCE:

SEE BELOW.

1 1 1 1es

---

## Page 57

80д 3007 010 PO

IN 0*3859

TOPE D8-345/35454-76

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND SETTIODS IRVOLITO

PAGEZ ON A PAGES

SECRET

URTHER DISSEMINATON AND USE OF THIS INFONMATION SUBJECT TC

'CONTROLS STATEO AY. BEGINNING ANO END OF REPORI

---

## Page 58

Md.2, 79

Đ0 073859.

1DIMDP-335/29154-74

SALINT. INTEL ICIICE SLICES AND ALTIIONS INTOLIED

PAGE 3 OFE PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEIMLATICIA AND USE OF THIS: INTOGMATION SUAJECT TO

CONIPO!S STATED AT BEGINING AND END OF REPORI.

2. ""."

---

## Page 59

14-00000

1550. 3007 08S00E

IN 0738595

"ARNING NOTICE

TOAR D6-335/30454-76

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INS. D

3 PAGE OF 6 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATON AND

AS INFORMATION SURECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT'E

•5 AND END; OF REPCRT,

COMMENTA FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON BOSCH'S RECENT

ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA AND POSADA'S AND BARGIAS'S CONNECTION WITH

MIM SGBIHVC-TS14D TDPIRDB-319/10296960L

IN NEMS BROADCÁSTS A LOGAL TELEVISION STATION SCHANNEL 21 MAS

MEPORTED THAT SOVERAL INDIVIDUALS GUARENTLY HOLDING PUSS LENS

INDICAPED THAT IP WOULO ROVEAL PHE SCENTIPINS OF PHESE OFFICERS

a "r

AT A LATER DATHA!

---

## Page 60

WARSING NOTICY

SENSITIE ISTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED:

N: 073659

Tons B8-215/30454-76.

PAGE 5 OF A PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORIAATION SINJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

2EA61

200 THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT I8 AWARE THAT GARGIA AND

POSADA TRAVELLED TO COSTA RICA TODETHER SNORTLY BEFORE BOSCH

• 10-t

CAME TO VENEZUELA FROM COSTA RICA IN SEPTEMPER.

OP TMETA TAVE TO COSPA RICA WAS TO MEET WITH GOSCH,

1 88" THERE IS CONSIDERABLE CONGERN WITHIN TNG VENEZUELAN

GOVEANMENT BECAUSE OP PHE RELATIVE GARDE NUMBER OF CURAN EXILES

R

---

## Page 61

14-00000

1. 3007 01s08e eu

IN / 2073859

TOFIR 28-345/10454-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE bOF

b PAGES

* 7, 1:

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE. OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT SEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

HOLDING POSITIONS OF INFLUENCE WITHIN THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY

SERVICES, FURTHERMORE,, THERE IS GROWING ALARM WITHIN THE

GOVERNMENT THAT THESE EXILES MAY HAVE GOTTEN VENEZUELA INTO A

DIFFICULT SITUATION®

DISSEMI"

REPORT CLASS SECRET O WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRAGTURACONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS R

---

## Page 62

"..T

B-PE ANC

sOm;

LADYANCE

ACTION NiNI

48

9 3147273

SLOTTED

_TOPAL CODES

121

SECRET.

BlINT

STAFF

E1A398

PAGE 01

# TOR81920B7& OCT 76

SECRET 1919422

OCT. 76 STAFF

CITE

TO DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL INTEL

REFI: DIRECTOR 885958.

REF PROVIDED A SUMMARY

ORLANDO.

B O SCH AVILA, COULD MOS PLEASE PROVIDE THE L

FOR THE APRIL 1976 PORTION REFERRING TO HIS ALLEGED

PRESENCE IN CHILE TO ASSASSINATE A HIGH LEVEL CHILEAN

OFFICIAL AND FACT THAT HE ESCAPED AN ATTEMPT TO ARREST

MIMO LEAVING BEHIND A CHILEAN AND EGUADOREAN PASSPORT,

IN 073838

THAT THE: FOREION MINISTAN I8 REVIEWING ALL INFO IN ITS

PILES; ON DOSCH,

TWILL PRY TO GOTAIN MORE ON THIS

FROM PUDOUDLFONO OR OTHER APPROPRIATE SOURCE,

201-209292, 88 IMPOBY

REOORON CORNY

TOG.

190ct16

201-299242.

---

## Page 63

14-000031

E:

OUTGOIC MESSAGE

13°

onr

06.

SECRET.

1801202

COM C/LAs mO: nis 000, 000/00,

106069 - 45

132

10::

PRIORITYS

INELLIGENCE DIVISIONNESS/ID V

SE CR COT WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHOOS INVOLVED LOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIRd NATIONALS NOT RELEASABLE A

TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS V

..

SUBJECT: FRANK CASTRO. V

18-336/20-041-76 92

REFERENCE IS MADE TOETDFIRDE-335/03696-76 WHICH PROVIDED

INFORMATION ON A POSSIBLE ATTENT ON THE LINTE OF A RELATIVE OF

FORMER PRESIDENT OF CHILE, MALVADOR ALLENDE, TO BE CARRIED OUT

SOMETINE SOON AFTER 12 FEBRUARY SA76 ONE OF THE INDIVIDUALS REPORTEDLY

INVOLVED IN THIS ATTEMPT, WHOSE MANE DOES NOT APPEAR IN THE FOREGOING

DISSEMINATIONS IS FRANK CASTRO, A CUBAN EXILE UHO UAS NATURALIZED AS:

US CITIZEN IN NOVERBER, 1973 AND UHO IS WELL KNOWN TO THEBI-Y

2O CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OPFICER EXEMPT FROM

SENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDUNC OF E-Q• DANSERI

EXERSTION CATE GORY

38 1680:

IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

BASED ON

VIN

PROJECTSSOURCES!

NP/WKSCARLET-

ThE Nit

701- 7

ARCINCI

•NT:

mATt

RECORD COPY

3 4 0

BUNO OPPICE I0 MI

s errorind

TATE CITE

---

## Page 64

14-00000

ONF :O

compa:

0U

CA:!

HẠT

OUTGOINL:

MESSAGE

808789

00

У.хВ.

iMPOST

---

## Page 65

FSE CABLES

FRON DIRECTOR FBI

PRES: 16 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: ATUO

SOJECT:

SUSPECTED BOMBING OF CUBAN AIRLINES

DC-8 NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES, OCT 6,76

NRON DIRECTOR FBI

•TATE 16 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: ATUO

SURJECT:

ER RAPIDS, WEST IN WE 199-8

YEAR BAPBADOS

---

## Page 66

said ?.

Cuban Exiles Arrested

In Crash of Airliner

¡CARACAS, Venezuela, Oct. 14 (AP)- Ven

matherities announced tonight the arrests.of C;

benn Airlines crash.

.that killed 13 persons nem

mcle leader Orlando Bosch and several other:

nons in' connection with the invertigation ofa

liland of Barbados.

i The Interior Ministry sald evidence. had

found linking one of those arrested. Cuban

Venezuelan citizen Luis Posada Carriles, with?

Veniruelans being held in Port of Spain, Trinta

In connection with the Oct & creasi.

The DER It Santed by Cubana Alrie oa

trom

Canada, - reported, emplosions;

med and plunged into the see off dareteor thor

akeal! tom Bridgetown arpert auero W

an offerinsaid later that sabotare was a Bit

group callina fisell: El Condor, &

Herald and claimed: it had

board the alcraft.

the United Staten fer

ared attacka laid to exile dro

hig

umbrella organiastina, Federal taver

the

ano al Chilean exile Orlando Lo

+ try & bo

mb.In Washington, indicatod leat

HO00 03460

workingt

Put

1s ost

Finday

---

## Page 67

he astor

4Si1!1

SEC

.3I0

2D00TB1

STArT PRECEDENCE

LAS

T 304707

F:LE

ENRY

ELA625

PAGE

• 41-01

/ 90R11912512 OCT 76

T1561352 OCT 46 STARF

1069943

CITE

TO!

PRIORITY DIRECTOR N

AMULE REAM MASPIKE TRACE

.; 0

JAGUAR REQUESTED PRIORITY

ONE ORLANDO

LUSH SPHL. ONLY INPO ON SUBJ IS HE LEADER OF

CUBAN EXILE

TERRORIST ORGANIZATION.

80 PILE DEFER, EB IMPDET

W/0d

FALL FOR 109450

0, 10

RECORD COPY

1524116

201-299272

---

## Page 68

14-00000

ASSIFICATION

TEAISNITTN

OF

TOFIR INPONMATIOS REMAT

SECRET

ошка

LAY PIC AY/R

04541

But dot.

OrS/INT S HOPS. 10 8.

LA 22

TDFIR: D9-335/20256-76

PRECEDENCE

DAV DISYENUTED

XI HOUTINE I

JA OCTOBER 1976

BASED ON

Chad

JA/PICAC

HVC-7514!

DOLLA

LA/CÁR!

(IN 089101)

WKMAYOR (WKSCARLET -5)

LA/RR

LA/ SA

OBJ:

LA/REG

LA/COQU

LA/PNC/Y. 3

LALPNC/PLI

MANDLINO INSTRUCTIONS - PLACE' N' IN APPROPRIATE SPACE

LIAISONI

TOUD: STATE. DIA, ARMY NAVY."

AIR, JES. NSAi

DISSIM ELECTRICALLY TOI

SUS: CIA/OBSCEN, TREASURY, SS/ID. FBI.

&IID COMMENT: ADVANCE COPY TO SIG CENTER

FOR ELECTRICAL TRANSMISXION AT 2335 HRS LOCAL C'

DE ZIWANDO UPTER CABLE SENT

indiane

I RELAY CABLE PREPARED

NOT RELEASABLE TO

FOREIGN NATICAL

NOT

RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR

CONSULTANTS

I. NOT FOR LIAIBON

REPORT CLASSIPIED BY.

035133

CS INTERNAL US

UTHENTICATING

OFFICIN

COORDINATINO OPTICE

REMOVE

LYS

C/LA/ PNC/R

CIA MACATION

C6 BY 007682

I 2 WAPDAT

SECRET

10-00

---

## Page 69

10 SECAT Mora Food la)

Intelligence Information Cable

SENSITHE INTELLICENA SONE MOTIO METHODA DIVOLVE

•PRIORITY

IN 069101

=-

UNTHER RISBEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SULECT TC

SANTIS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.;

VAIS 1S AN INFORMATIÓN REFSHT, NOY HIMALY. EVALLATED INTEWICINC

SECRET

OTE ToPin DB-315/10256-15

DIST 24E OCTOBER 177

REPORT CLASS SE BM E T-OMARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES ANO METHODE INVOLVED--NOT RELEÁSABLE 7O FOREIGN NATIONALS--

NOT RELEASABLE Fa CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

CO UN TRY VENEZUELA/CUDA

LATE SEPTEMBER -32 OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECTI

LACTINITIES OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOS CH DURING

HES STAY IN VENEZUELA:

GO MNEM TAL IN LATE SEPTEMBER 19%6

ASPORTEO THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO DOS CIN WAGEN

VENEQUELA UNDEA PHO PROTECTION DE VENERUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

CANORES PIE A E AO PURTNERMOREN FOREA MAD APPOINTED MIS BECURITY

TAND INTELLIGENGE ADVIGOR ORLANDO @AREI A PO PROTECT AND ABSIBP

BOSCH DURING MIO DRAY IN VENCEURLA, POR THIS INPORMATION S0S

NO 7490N PARLADE 115/07014 •96.

TH HYGAYASSE TO7IA0EO915409490-761

---

## Page 70

14-00000

IN 069301

TOriR DB-375/37256-76

WARNING NOTIC

INSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVE

PAGE 2 OF 5, PAGES

SECRET

FUTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

UF MID-SEPTEMBER, A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY.

FREPORTED THAT BOSCH ARRIVED IN VENEZUELA ON APPROXIMATELY 13 SEPTEMUER. I

2. UPON MIS ARRIVAL INICARAGAS, DOSCH HAS MET AT THE AIRPORT

•BY GARCIA AND LUIS CLEMENTE POS A DA. A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR

AND ONE-TIME MEMBER OF THE SIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE

FAND PREVENTION DISIPS NHO ESCORTED BOSCH TO MIS CARAÇAS HOTEL.

_" TCOMMENT: WHILE CURRENTLY NATUFALIZED VENEZUELAN CITINENSA

„BOTH GARCIA AND POSADA ARE NATIVE-BORN CUBANS:)

JO SOMETIME FOLLOWING BOSCHOS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS. À ES.

3.998 APPROXIMATELY UIS 51,118) A PLATE FUND-RAISING DINNER FOR

COSEN HAS HELD AT THE HOME OF MILDO POLO A RO A PROMINENT

SURGEON AND CUBAN EXILE. IN ADDITION TO BOSCH, AMONG THOSE ATTENDING

PNE DINNER WERE GARCIAN RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE, GARGIAIS

DEPUTY WHO IS ALSO A NATIVE-BORN CUBAND POSADAR AND AN UNIDENTIFIED

PION-LEVEL OFFICIAL OR THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR.

.. DURINA THE EVENING BOSEN APPROACHED THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR

OPPECIAL TARQUON GARGIA PROPOSINO THAT THE VENEZUELAN GOVEANMENT HAKE

A BUBSTANTIAL CASH CONTRIBUTION PO HIS ORDANIRATIONO IN RETURNA

COSCH AGRARO PO QUARANTEE THAT THERE WOULD BE NO CUBAN EXILE DEMONO

"PRATIONO IN THE, UNITOO STATES DURINO PREGIOUNT PERCA! PLANNUD

---

## Page 71

IN 06910}

TOFIRDB-315/20256-76

WARNINC NOTICE

BENSTTIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF S PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

NOVEMBER APPEARANCE ATTITHE UNITED NATIONSSUN).

COMMENT!

* IT IS BELIEVED THAT BOSCHES PROPOSITION WAS AT LEAST TENTATIVELY

ACCEPTED BY THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR OFFICIAL. Y

•So ALSO DURING THE EVENING BOSCH MADE THE STATEMENT THAT. "NOW

THAT QUA ORGANIZATION HAS COME OUT OF THE LETELIER JOB LOOKING GOOD.

WE ARE GOING TO TRY SOMETHING ELSE."

BOSCH DID NOT NAME THE ORGANis

RATION NOR DID ME EXPANDION HIS MEANING.

I COMMENTI THE

LETELTER MENTIONED ABOVE IS PROBABLY FORMER CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTER

DRLANDO.6

RS. WHO WAS ASSASSINATED IN THE. UNITED STATES

ON 21 SEPTEMOER.)

A PEW DAYS FOLLOWING THE FUND-RAISINO DINNER, POSADA WAS

OVERHEARD TO SAY THATE HE ARE GOINU TO HIT A CUBAN AL APLANES" AND

THAT "ORLANDO HAS THE DETAILS, "

COMMENT THE iDENTITIES

PETE "NE" AND MORLENDO" MENTIONED 8N THE STATEMENT ABE MET KNOUNI

• FOLLOWINO PHE O OCTOGER CUBANA AIRLINE CRABM OFF PNE

COAST OF BARBADOS, BOSCH, DANCIA AND PORADA GORGED THAT SE HOULS

IL ASST POA BOSCH TO LEAVE VENENUELA, THEREPORE, ON MOGPODER

POSADA AND GARCIA COCORTEC DOGSH TO THE SOLONELAN

BORDER, WNERS

TNOELATOR CROSSOD OVEA:INTO COLOMBIAN TERRATORY O

ON PHE BABIS OF INPORMATION RECHIVED PROM TRINIGADIAN

---

## Page 72

j0 30071 0OLTHBAYIOUS

N 062101

TDF1D8-73.5/77256-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE " OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSIMINATION AMID USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

horat

-AUTMORITIES IMPLICATING MEM, POSADA WAS ARRESTED BY DI SIP AUTMORITIES

FON 12 OCTOBER. HIS OFFICE WAS SUBSEQUENTLY RAIDED AND ALL FILES

AND EQUIPMENT CONFISCATEDO

9• MEANHHILE, PRESTLENT PEREZ HAS ASSURED THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT•

PRAGUSH CUSAN AMBASSADOH TURBERTO HERNANDES CURDELD, THAT

SOME VENERUELAN GOVERMENT HELL ENERRETSENLLY PURSUS THE INVESTIGATIUM

OF THE CUDAMA CRASH. IN RETURN HOWEVER, CUBA WILL DE EXPECTED TO

¡SUPPORT, VENEZUELA'S ANTI-TEARORISM POSITION AT THE UN.

¡NA DISCERENT INFORMATION AS TO WHETHEN BOSCH MAS EXF ILTRATED OR 1S

OR 18 NOT IN VENEZUELA. SOARCIA SPUKE

ON THE AFPEANION OF LE OGTOREA TOLD HIM INPORMALLY*

THAT PHO PRESIDENT WOULD SHORTLY ADVISE ME PHAT BOSCH WOULD ON

•PUANNO OVER TO VI, THIS WAS REPEATEDI

BY DISIP DIRECTOR

RAVE DIMEN A A GAINA AND SPHER DISiE BRICIALS SINGLUDING

GARGIAS IN A MENTINO THE MORNINO OR SO OCTOBER, CONCHIVAGLY GARCIA

CAN DO PLATINO À DARNIUANE, OUT THE DIECHEPANGIEO GAS NOTGHORTHY,

¡ MAVO NOP YET RECEIVEO ANY OFF SE SAL MOHO AB TO TME PHABIDENTIO

DOCISION T

DI 08 MM A.

SENT

: To

---

## Page 73

9, 2.5

3007: OBSOME PREVIO

31TAOB

IN 069101

TOFIR DB-73.5/2/7P.56-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE, SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED A

PAGE S OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

REPORT, CLASS SECRETIONARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

•SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVEG--NOT RELEASAGLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASAULE TO CONTRACTUS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.,

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPONTING OFFICER. XODS-?,

• ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO!.

TATE• DIAY ARMY• NAVY AIRi JOSSENSATSON

•IMOSCEN, SS/ID, FaI, TREASUR

---

## Page 74

ta-inden

tere

Capit

SECRET

PIRNON/:N08 MO8+8180

MOVANEE COPY

UnAT

LA 10

ACTION O

Tº 1450

FILS: VR. BANARS/B62, TP/ANO FID, OPS/INT • SS ".

SS/SOG 4, 0S6A86. OPSXTTG4.

T 302470

elA453

PAGE 01

POR:1419573 008 78

SECRET SAI900E DEP TO INTEL

6R

CITE

TO &

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFOL

* an

le: dall

Afid VCY MESSAGE

IN 069101

HVC - 7574-

WNINTEL. INTEL REAN

OD OBJECTIVE!

defo

INDEX DARCIA, POSADA, MORALES FOLGAR.

F861 9801800880 660

1010000

EH (018

12

!.,,

DOC, MICRO. DEFI

NQV 1 7 1976

RECONO COPY

T MICROFILMED

14 lect 16

0201-29927.2

8 75-120.28

---

## Page 75

its rarerat

• #3

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

INTELIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DATE SE OCTAgE? JA?6

IN

061301

PAGE I OR S. PAGES

SENSITIVE INTILLICENCA NUNG NOTICE METIONS INVOLVED

Do fattounty roport, tramminad from a ClA fial station, requires reviem within the Directorate al Opinesion Dater bring une

o an onter docuen or publication, or releaned outside the Agansy. Pending results of this revier, @ copy is providad for you

advance information

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORICINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO:

SDO

1.8 BONY CE BY 007021

REPORT CLASSSE ENÉ TO WARNING NUTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SQUACES AND METHODS INVOLVÉO--NOT HELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS.

NOT DELÉASÁBLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORICONSULTANTS

COUNTRY!

DOI

SUBJECTS

VeNEZUELA/CUBA

LATE SEPTEMBER -12 OCTOGER 1976

ACTIVITIES OF CUMAÑ EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BUSCH DUINING

HIS STAY IN VENEZUELA

COMMENTA IN LATE SEPTEMUER 19%0 L

REPORTED THAT CUOAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO NO SCM MABIN

VENAQUELA UNDEA THE PROTECTION OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

AMDASE ARE DA FURTHEMMON EEE NAO APPOISO MIE SECURITY

AND INTELLIGENCE ADVIDEA ONLANDO

TO PROTECT ANC ASCIST

DOSEN DURING MIS STAY IN VENEQUELA.: PON THIN INFORMATION SOU

wc-9dd.9a01a38-315/19a04 096i

IN HUG TAESE PEP IADE-919/19477-76:

---

## Page 76

14-00000

30070801

®

N 06960}

WARNING NOTICE

BENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METIODE INVOLVED

TDAR

PAGE 2 OF S PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

UF MID-SEPTEMDER.

REPORTED THAT BOSCH ARRIVED IN VENEZUELA ON APPROXIMATELY 13 SEPTEMBER.)

2• UPON MIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, BOSCH WAS MET AT THE AIRPORT

BY GARCIA AND LUIS CLEMENTE A US A D A, A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR

•AND ONE-TIME MENBER OF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE

AND PREVENTION (DISI®S WHO ESCORTEU BOSCH TO HIS CARACAS MOTELA

COMMENT: WHILE CURRENTLY NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIENS.

BOTH GARCIA AND POSADA ARE NATIVE-BORN CUBANS.!

•3 •

SOMETIME FOLLOWING HUSCHIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS. A BS.

DOBOO PATRONIMATELY U.S, $1.1169 A PUATE FUND-RAISING DINNER FOR

201= 2903010-

DOSCH WAS MELD AT THE MOME OF MILDO

OLGA RO A PROMINENT

SURGEON AND CUBAN EXILE... IN ADDITION TO BOSCA, AMONG THOSE ATTENDING

THE DINNER WERE GARCIAL RICANDU

201-29:923 NAVARETTE, GARCIAIS

DEPUTY WHO IS ALSO A NATIVE-BORN CUMANS POSADAS AND AN UNIDENTIFUED

HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIAL DE PHE MINISTAY OR INTERIOR.

DO OUA8IJ PNE EVENINO GOSCH. APPRUACHED PHE MINISTRY OF INTERION

ORPICIAL THAQUUM GARGIA FROPOSING INAT THE NENGAUELAN GOVERNMEMP MAKE

A BUBSTANTIAL CASH CONTAIOUPIUA TO MIS OROANIGATIONO IN RETURNA

DODON ADANDO TO QUARANTUS THAT THEME WUULD HE NO GUOAN OXILE DEMONO

SPAAPIONE IN POE UNITOO SPATES QUAING PRESIDENT DERESY PLANNIG

---

## Page 77

3007

IN

06130}

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINMING AND END OF EFFORT.

•

(almont/inneton/

NOVEMBER APPEARANCE AT THE UNITED NATIONSOUND.

COMMENTE

IT IS BELIEVED THAT BOSCHOS PRUPOSITION WAS AT LEAST TENTATIVELY

ACCEPTED BY THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR OFFICIALO

SO ALSO DURING IME EVEMING BOSCH MADE THE STATEMENT THAT, "NOW

THAT OUR ORGANIZATION HAS COME OUT OF THE LETELIER JOO LOOKING GOOD.

WE ARE GOING TO TRY SOMETHING ELSE•"

BOSCH DID NOT NAME THE ORGANI

ZATION NOR DIE HE EXPAND ON HIS MEANING.

_COMMENTS THE:

LETELIER MENTIONED ABOVE IS PRONABLY FORMER CHILEAN FORETON MINISTER

ORLANDO GET E6 SER. WHO HAS ASSASSINATED IN THE UNITED STATES

ON 21 SEPTEMBER.)

6. A FEW DAYS FOLLOWING THE FUNDORAISING DINNER. POSADA WAS

OVERHEARD TO SAY PHATO "WE ARE GOING TO HIT A CUBAN ALAPLANE:" AND

•THAT "ORLANDO HAS THE DETAILS."

COMMENTI THE EDENTATIES

OF THE "ME" AND MORLANDO" MENTIONED IN. THE

,STATEMENT ARE NET KNOWN, I

", FOLLOWING THE A OCTODEA CUDANA ALALINE CRASH. OFF PHE

COAST OF DAMAGON, DOSCHO LANCIA ANO MORADA AGAGED THAT IT WOULO

DO DIST PEA DOSCH TO LOAVE VENEQUELA. THEREFORE, ON O OCTOGER

DONADA AND DARCIA NSCORTÃO NONCH PO THU COLOMBIAN GORDER, WHRE

THE LATTER CROSSSO OVEA INTO COLOMBIAN PERRITORY,

DO ON TMO BADIO OP ANPORMATION RECHIVED FROM TAINIDADIAN

---

## Page 78

3007 0S0HTC

n 0642)

TOF

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE: SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE Y ORY. PAGES..

SECRET

FUITHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUMJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

AUTHORITLES IMPLICATING HIM, POSADA WAS ARRESTEU BY DISIP AUTMORIPIES

ON 12 OCTOBER. HIS OFFICE WAS SUBSEQUENTLY RAIDED AND ALL FILES

AND EQUIPMENT CONFISCATED.

DO MEANWHILE, PRESIUENT PERES MAS ASSURED THE CUBAN SOVERNMENT,

THROUGH CUBAN AMBASSADOR NURBERTO

HERNANDEZ CURBELO: THAT

THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT WILL ENEHGETIGALLY PURSUE THE INVESTIGATION

OF THE CUBAMA CRASH. IN RETURN HOWEVER, CUBA WILL GE EXPECTED TO

SUPPORT VENEZUELA'S ANTI-TERRORISM POSITION AT THE UN.

10

MAS DIFFERENT INFORMATION AS TO WHETHER BOSCH WAS EXFILTRATED OR

OR IS NUT IN VENEZUELA, GARCIA SPOKE

ON THE AFTERNOON OF 1Z OCTUBER TOLD HIM "INFORMALLY"

THAT THE PRESIDENT WOULO SHORTLY ADVISE ME THAT BOSCH WOULD DE

PURNEO OVER TO US. THIS WAS REPEATEOL

JOY DISI DIRECTOR

RAUL DIMENE A DAINIA AND OMER DISIP OFFICIALS CINCLUDING

BARCIAO IN A MEETING THE MONNING OF IS OCTOOGA, CONCHIVABLY DARGIA

CAN 36 PLAYING A DARK DAMED OUT THE DISCREPANGIES ARE NOTEWORPHYO

& NAVE NOT MUP MECHIGA ANY OFFICIAL WOND AS TO THE PRESIDENTIO

DECIOLUNONE

---

## Page 79

5 3007 90

061301

SECRET

ANING NOTIC

NSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOUNCES AND MITHODE INVOLVE.

PAGE 5 OF 5 PAGES

FURTHER DESSEMINATION AND USE OF INIS INEJAMATION SLINECT 1O

CONTROLS STATED AY BEGINNING AND END OR REPORT.

REPORT CLASSS E GRE POMARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENGE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALSO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRAGTOO OR CONTRAGTOR/CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED. BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS=8*

---

## Page 80

115;4: 3845

261

SECRET

PHONE MIHAD

ChAB

Y 302400

en.

iSTaTE

E1A092

IN 800100

T0R1141039₴

• SHOOT OCT TO STATE

CITE

TO :

"RIORITY DIRECTOR INTO PRIORITY

ROUTINE

MINTEL RYBAT REAM MMSPIKE

REFI

save 7514) (12 069101)

ANg 12)

1. ACCORDING TO REF, ORLANDO B O S CH MAY HAVE BEEN

DEPORTED TO COLOMBIA 9-10 OCTOBER. ALTHOUGH VENEZUELAN SECURITY

OFFICIALS MAVE CONTINUED TO ASSURE

THAT AS

OF 13 OCTOBER BOSEN STIUL IN VENEZUELA AND WILL BE PRODUCED

SHORTLY FOR DEPORTATION TO U.S.

_HAS NO OBJECTION TO

CHECKING FOR BOSCH'S PRESENCE COLOMBIA THROUGM

BUT ASKS THAT NO INQUIRIES BE MADE THROUG

OFFICIAL CHANNELS UNTIL IT CLEAR WHAT VENEZUELANS

REALLY MAVE DONE OR PROPOSE PO DO ON BUSCH'S DEPORTATION.

EARLIER ALLEBED TO EE TRAVELLING ON COSTA RICAN

PASSPORT IN NAME OF PEDRO ANTONIO BEN A OR CARLOS LUIS

"ANS A QUU A MENDER, ON THE OTHERMAND, WE MAVE ONE REPORT

PMAT ME ENTERED VENERUELA IN TRUS NAME.

Do 98601 801-02992990

RECORD COPY

MQAT6

221-279292

---

## Page 81

14-00000

TRANSMITTAL

& Ab

THIN SINATHA MENUIT

TENCAT-S

SECRET

LA PICALLR

9:21

11 OCTOBER, 1926

OPS. INT & 1D. PS/tO &. CE 3. 88 4.

ONCEIRL

129

88/8OG 8. OPSLITO S

DATE DEBTRIBUTED

11 OCTOBER 1878 SEAMATON

LA MCA

DC/LA -

2

HA/PNGLY

MANDUNO INSTRUCTIONS - PLACE * IN APPROPHATE SPACI

TO 1D.

DISEA MICTRCALLY TO.

C TWANOO UFTER CAMN SENT

DICIVIVE FOR

DELAY CABLE PREPARED

TDFIRN8-319/10839-78

NECTOUNCE

I POUTIN

HVC - 7313

(IN 067787)

HOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-

AUTTENTICATINO OFFICIA

C/LA/PNG/R

GUTGATION

REMO!E

DEFLECOORD)

SECRET

Cl BY 007672

• A. IPOIT

LA/CAR

LA/ 8B

RELEASING OFFICER

COUNCIE

---

## Page 82

14-00000

...

Intelligence inforination Cable

BIll 0070

MAN MARIAND MINI MUR

BOUT I NE

067747

PAGE I OS A PAGES.

SECRET

FURTNIO DISSEMIMATION ANO USE ON IMS INFOIMATION SUMICI 1O

COMINOIS SIATED AI BEGINNING ANO ENO DE REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT: NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

Cle YON& DB-315/10239-76

ON IN OCTOBER 1076

REPORT CLASS 8 ECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS NOT

RELRASABLE TO COYTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTY VENEZUELA/CIPA

DOI

8 OCTOBER 1976

SUMAICT

COMMENTS OF A CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL IN CARACAS

ON RECENT ACTS OF TERRORISH AGAINST THE CUBANS.

M21201k

11x2

iNe Code

ON 8 OCTOBER 1976 LUIS JORGE MARTINEZ MENOCAL,

OCTIRST SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA, BAID

THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY BELIEVES THAT THE CUBAN EXILE GROUP

ZADED BY ORLANDO BO SCH AVILA 8B REBPONBIBLE FOR THE 8

OCTOBER BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER OUT OF BARBADOS.

COMMENTI YOR AN LANTER REPORT ON CUDAN REACTION TO RECENT

SECRET

---

## Page 83

N3413

MATE AT

LICENSE SOARD METINO DVOLVED

# 069788

OR DE-315/10239-76

PAGE & OR A, PACCI

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INTFORMATION SUBJECT TO

• SECRET CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE CUBANS, SEE HVC-7509, TDFIRDB-315/

10100-76, OF 8 OCTOBER 1976, FROM THIS AND ANOTHER SOURCE OF

UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY. »

?. MARTINEZ SAID THAT THI EMBASSY BELIEVES BOSCH HAS BEEN

RECEIVING ECONOMIC AND OTHER ASSISTANCE FROM THE UNITED STATES

GOVERNMENT (USO), VIA ITS INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES, SINCE BOSCH I8

ABLE TO MOVE ABOUT. FREELY AND OBVIOUSLY WITH FALSE DOCUMENTATION,

cenT AS HIS MOVEMENTS CANNOT BE TRACED. HOWEVER, MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE

CUBANS DO NOT BELIEVE THE USG IS OR WOULD BE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN

THE BOMBING OF THE CUBANA FLIGHT. USG INVOLVEMENT IN THE INCIDENT,

MARTINEZ SAID, HOLLE BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE TO THE USG'S INTERESTS

BECAUSE CUBAN PRIME MINISTER FIDEL

. CASTRO RUZ WOULD SURELY

BREAK THE AIR PIRACY AGRESHINT, WHICH IS TO THE BENFIT OF THE USG.

3. THE CUBANS, MARTINEZ SAID, ARE COMENNET ABOTT APPARENT

CONNECTIONS BETWEEN BOSCH AND CUBAN EXILES WORKING FOR THE CAPRILES

PUBLISHING CHAIN IN VENEZUELA. KHOULD TREDDY I. U Q O, ONE OF THE

TWO VINEZUEZANS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN TRINIDAD IN CONNECTION

WITH THE PLANS CRASH AND A REPORTER TUR ONE OF THE CAPRILES PUB-

LICATIONS, BE DEFINITELY IMPLICATED IN TIS AFZAIR, THE CUBANS WILL

BE CONVINCED OF THIS BOSCH/CAPRILES CONNECTION. ANOTHER:

• SECRET

---

## Page 84

SECRET pathan felted da)

UGENCE MINDS AND METHODS IDOLS

IN 067781

TOMR DE 315/10239-76

PAGE J OR A PAGES

FURTHER DISSENINATICN AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

• SECRET CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

EXAMPLE OF THIS CONNECTION, MARTINEZ SAID, IS A B OCTOBER ARTICLE

WRICH APPEARED IN THE CAPRILES PAPER "EL MUNDO" WHICH DESCRIBES AN

RARLIER UNSUCCESSTUL ATTACK ON A CUBANA FLIGHT OUT OF BARBADOS AND,

WHILE DEPLORING SUCH ACTS, SAYS THAT THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT STARTED

THEN, THE UNSUCCESSFUL ATTACK DESCRIBED IN THE ARTICLE, AND ABOUT

WHICH THE CUBANS KNOW NOTHING, IS BELIEVED TO BE SIMILAR TO WHAT

MAY RAVE OCCURPED IN THE CASE OF THE & OCTOBER DISASTER. THE CUBANS,

THERETORE, BELIEVE THAT THE AUTHOR MAY WELL, HAVE HAD PRIOR KNON-

WIDES OF THE ATTACK ON THE CUBANA AIRLINER. |

COMMENT:

FOR

AN EARLIER REPORT ON CUBAN CONCERN ABOUT ARTICLES APPEARING IN "5I

MUNDO, " SEE HYC-7495, TDFIRDE-315/09683-76, 27 SEPTEMBER 1978, FROM

ANOTHER SOURCE CY' UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY.)

"IN WITH REGAED TO THE 21 SEPTEMBER ASSASSINATION OF FORMER

CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S. ORLANDO' LET BI I BRINTHE

U.B., MARTINEZ SAID THAT THIS KILLING SHOWED THE CHARACTERISTICS

OT WORK DONE BY THE GOVERNSENT QF CHILEAN PRESIDENT GENERAL

AUGUSTO PINOCHET VOARTE, DESPITE SOME MEDIA SPECULATION

TO THE CONTRARY, MARTINEZ SAID THAT HE DOES NOT PERSONALLY BELIEVE

TI USO IS IN ANY WAY INVOLVED "ITH LETELIER'S DEATH.

AX7. 64220210

• SECRET

„?. i. i:.

---

## Page 85

RONINE ANTEL

- on to 00.

ALDO MA ALIS ANN MATANA ANILS!

• 068981

"TDRADE-985/10830-70

MAGE A OF A PAOLI

• FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INPORMATION SUBJECT

, SECRET TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END O ALTON

S. CONCINNING THE & OCTOBER MACHINEOUN ATTACK ON THE CUBAN

JUBASSY IN

CARACAS, MARTINEZ BAID THAT THE CUBANS ARE PLACING NO

SPECIAL SIGNIFICANCE ON THE EVENT.

THE ATTACK, MARTINEZ BAID,

WAS PROBABLY THE MORN OF CUBAN EXILES; NONEVIR, HE DOUBTED THAT IT

IS. CARRIED OUT BY BOSCH'S GROUP.

DISSEM:

REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED HOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECOPDED REPORTING OFFICER. AGDS-?.

•16

et on verseen or castrau to batecto

nasalsiz

NT2: 6022:

1:63

3. CutS

DUCES 1903

miss breeded.

sTe

2 1: 6219.

• SECRET

---

## Page 86

14-60000

this 10

V0R02588896 069 %0

BOC081 8120888069D0INTEL

CIVE

100

PRIORITY DIRECTON INTO

MNINTER INTOL REAM

CUPDATAI

P1LS01

ARWANDO TON DUSK ROVIEN.

DO OBDECTIVER COL.OO ATMIS IDEN

RESPONSE TO DIRECTOR 023560 AND DIRECTOR 0240090D

BODEX LUGO, LLANO.

51601 75-120-20, CLo OVG6200S.

132023₴

0 CI

Orlando

Beach

PHS 2109

Pe, 59m1

SECRET

ToT

---

## Page 87

140006gk

BECKE

CA ANTERVAL USE MANY

DNTELUIGENCI INFORHATICN CARLA

47787

PAGE I OF 4 PAGE

ARANTE UNTELACENC NINED SO METHODS ANORTEO

pommod form a ClA fold murios, requires mrive satio de Directaruno el Opiarations botaro Doto une

top delipeng rapese,

a pay onto datumon.

patroose interm

DIBEMINATION AND RITRACTION OF INPORMATION CONTROLLED BY OUCINATOR

DUMBLTION 10. 5D0

1-0 moe co do 00

REPORT GLASS BE CR E POOMARNINO NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND MEPMODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASADLE TO POREION NATIONALSOO

NOT MELEASADLE TO CONTRACTOAS OR CONPRAGTORI CONSULTANTS

COUNTRYA VENE RUELA/CUDA

DO! • • 0CT00ER 1990

SUBJECTE

COMMENTS OF A CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL IN CARACAS ON

RECENT ACTS OF. TERRORISM AGAINST THE CUBANS

SO ON & OCTUBER 1979 LUIS JORGE MARTINGE MENOCALA

PERST

SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA, SAID

THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY BELIEVES THAT THE CUBAN EXILE GROUP HEADED

DY ORLANDO BOSEN AVILA IS RESPONSIOLE FOR THE O OCTOBER

COMBING OF A CUNANA AIRLINER OUT OF BARBADOS.

J COMMENTI

FOR AN GARLICA REPORT ON CUENA REACTIGN TO RECENT ERRORIST ATTACKS

AGAINST THEM SEE MUCO?SODA TOFIRDO S19/1020G-YO, OF A DEPODERE

ROM THIS AND ANOTHER SOURCE OF UNDETERMINGO AGLIABILETY D

8, MARTINE& SAID THAT PHE EMBASSY WELIEVES GOSCH HAD OGEN

-CHIVINO SCONOMIC AND. OTHER ASGIETANGO PROM THE UNITSO STATES

---

## Page 88

4*9-00000

+ 200 S

• - 06778?

WARNING NOTICE

SEAMTIL E ISTELLICEICE SOUNCES AND METHOOS INVOLVIO

PAGE? OF"

PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION ANO USE OF, THIS INPORMATION SULECT TO

CONIROLS STATED Al BEGINNINO AND END OF REPORT.

GOVERNMENT BUSGI, VIA ITS INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES, SINCE BOSCH IS ABLE

TO MOVE ABOUT FREELY AND UBVIOUSLY WITH FALSE DOCUMENTATION. AS MIS

MOVEMENTS CANNOT BE TRACED. HOMEVER• MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE CUBANS

DO NOT BELIEVE THE USO IS OR WOULD DE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE

BOMBING OF THE CUBANA FLIGHT. USG INVOLVEMENT IN THE INGIDENTA

MARTINEZ SAIDA WOULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE TO THE USGIS INTERESTSA

BECAUSE CUBAN PRIME MINISTEN FIDEL CASTRO RUE NOULD SURELY

•BREAK THE AIR PIRACY AGREEMENT WHICH IS TO THE BENEFIT OF THE USG

3. THE CUBANS, MARTINEZ SAID, ARE CONCERNED ABOUT APPARENT

CONNECTIONS BETWEEN BOSCH AND CUBAN EXILES WORKING FOR. THE CAPRILES

PUOLISHING CHAIN IN VENEZUELA. SHOULD FREDDY LUG G. GNE GF

THE TWO VENERUELANS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN TRINIDAD IN

CONNECTION WITH THE PLANE CRASH AND

A REPORTER FOR ONE OF THE

CAPRILES PUBLICATIONS: DE DEFINITELY IMPLICATED IN THE AFFAIRS

THE CUBANS WILL DE CONVINCED OF THIS SOSCHACAPRILES CONNECTION.

ANUIMEN EXAMPLE DE INÍS GUNNELIUNO MARTINGA SAID, 15À A UGTUBER

ARTICLE WHIGH ADDEARED IN THE CAPRILES PAPER "EL MUNDON WHICH

DU SCRI069

AN GARLIER UNSUCCESSPUL ATTACK ON A CUBANA FLIGHT OUT 0F

VARGADOS, AND WHILE DEPLORING YUEN AGPS, DAYS THAT THE GUEAN.

COVERNMENT ATARTED THEMO THIS ARTICLE WAS WRITTEN MY ANTONIO

---

## Page 89

188 3007 GN015I PUIS

IN 1773?

WARNIG NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES ASD METHODS INVOLVED

TDFIR

PAGE 3 OF 4: PAGES

SECRET

PURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

LL AN O MONTES, A CUBAN EXILE WHO WHILE LIVING IN THE UNITED

STATES, WRITES A COLUMN FOR MEL MUNDO. * THE UNSUCCESSFUL ATTACK

DESCRIBED IN LLANQ 'S ARTICLE AND ABOUT WHICH THE CUBANS KNOW

NOTHING, IS BELIEVED TO BE SIMILAR TO WHAT MAY MAVE OCCURRED IN

THE CASE OF THE 6 OCTOBER DISASTER. THE CUBANS. THEREFORE • BELLEVE

THAT LLANO MAY WELL HAVE HAD PRIGH KNOWLEDGE OF THE ATTACK ON THE

CUBANA AIRLINER. L

JCOMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT. ON CUBAN

CONCERN ABOUT ARTICLES APPEARING IN "EL MUNDON. SEE HYGO7495.

TDFIRDE -3130

*760 FROM ANOTHER SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED

RELIABILITY)

4, WITH REGARD TO THE ZO SEPTEMBER ASSASSINATION. OF FORMER

PHILEAN TOREION MINISTER CRINDO LE TEL HER IN PHE UNITED

STATES, MARTINE: SAID THAT THIS KILLING SHONED THE CHARACTERISTICS

OP WORK DONE. DY THE QOVERNMENT OF CHILEAN PRESIDENT GENERAL AUGUSTO

PINOCHET UDARTE. DÉS-LIE SOME MEDIA SPECULATION PO. TME CON

TRARY• MARTINES SAIN THAT. HE MOSS NAT DEAGONALLY BELLEVE THE USO

10 JA ANY WAY INVOLVEO WITH LETELIGRIS GEATH.

• CONGGRNINO THE

'à OCTONER MACHINE DUN ATTACK ON THE CUBAN

BABASSY IN CARACÃS, MAATINER SALD THAT THE CUBANS ARE PLAGINO NO

SPECIAL BIUNIPICANCE ON THE SVENT,.

PHE. AYTACK, MARTING DAIDA

• 1

---

## Page 90

890. 3007 aslee

N. 067787

TORA

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PACE "CEY PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE DE THIS INFORNATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(last teaston)

WAS PROBABLY THE NORK OF CUBAN EXILESI HOWEVER. ME DOUBTED THAT IT

WAS CARRIED OUT BY BOSCH'S GROUP.

DISSEME

REPORT CLASS S E CR E TOWARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENGE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVÉD--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS.

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORA CONSULTANTS.

GLASSIFIEO MY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER: XODS-?.

---

## Page 91

STATE CABLES

FROM SECSTATE WASHDC

STATE 252295

DATE: 9 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

US POSITION ON INVESTIGATION OF

CUBANA AIRLINES CRASH

FROM AMEMBASSY CARACAS 12098

DATE: 29 OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR DEPORTATION OF BOSCH

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL.

STATE CABLEB

FROM AMEMBASSY PORT QT SPAIN 2652

DATE: 9 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICALION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT!

REQUEST FOR DEFORTATION OF BUBCH

TROM SECSTAZE WASHDO

PYAS3 252567

DATES

9 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTTAE

SUBJECTI

PEOULOT FOR DEPORTATION TO US OP

FUOITIVE ORLANDO HOSCIL

---

## Page 92

14-00000

TRANSMITTAL

OF

TDFIR INFORMATION REPORT

ROUTING

EXT.

DATE

CONE,

LA/ PNC

1454

9 OCTOBER

1976

OPS/INT 5, IID, PS/EG 2. CI 4,

LA 19

FR 5

SS 4,

DATE DISTRIBUTED

9

OCTOBER 1976

DISSEMINATION

LA/REG

LALER

JA/CAR

LA M&CA

2

LA/PORT SPAIN it

DC/LA

LA/GEORGETHN

LA/OPS

LA/MEXI

LA/PNC

LA/MANAGUA

IA COG

4L LAGUAT

"MANDUNG INSTRUCTIONS - PLACE X. IN APPROPRIATE SPACE

IATPICT

TA/ SA, DOY

GINIANT

PRINGS"

• TO ID:

DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TOL

& ZAWAHOO UFTER CABLE SENT

EXCLUSIVE ROR

I RELAY CABLE PREPARED

NOT FOR MAISON

REPOIT CLASSRGO BY. 035200

NOT RELEASA%:

NOT RELIASA!:

CONTRAS:

CS INTERNAL

OFFICER

24/cc

WATER

LASITCAYCH

C6 BY 009613

U 8 IMPORT

SECRET

LAG ANGEL

kerate

4I5G 4,

VTDIET-3)

ACMIXER-1)|

9 0cs Tr

for

orlando

1000040-1

-379292

---

## Page 93

TA 1E ONSOLETE PREVIOL

SECRET (When filled in)

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATION%

SECRET

Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INTOLVED

• PRIORITY

IN 064422

PAGE I OF A PAGES

STATE/INE SCS/MC IDIA) CIA/MACE SWS NIA

TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS

FBI

SECUR (SY/I/PIB)

SS/ID

Nice a pa or dio Gone Declari resian Schedule it 1.0: 11488 Animes

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO ...

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT:

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINAILY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDFIDB-315/10100-76

DIST 9. OCTOBER 1976

• REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE -SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATION ALSO

NO! RELEASABLE TO CONTRECTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY

VENEZUELA CUBA

DO!

SO SEPTEMBER OY UCTOBER 1976

SUBJECT

NE ACTION OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY

IN CARACAS TO RECENT

TERHORIST: AITACKS AGAINST CUBAN AIRCRAFT AND

INSTALLATIONS,

50 Un CE

SEE' BELOW.

GITGRO ON D OCTOBER SOTO PEDRO O O ME A FERNANDED, SECOND

¡CONCRETARY AT PMA CUMAN AMBADDY IN CARACADO VENERUDLA, BAIO THAT

THO CUMAN UMMANDY WAY AWARD THAT A DOMO WAS RRSPONDIOLI FOR THE

CRABM. OF THE CUBANA ABALONE PLIQNT OPP THE COAST OF MARADOS

ON A OCTUOSA, PHE CUUANG, COMED SAID. DIO NOT KNOW ON WASCH

LIO OP PHO FLIONT THU DOMO WAD PLAGUD MOWIVER,

COMMONTI THE PLAND WAN DOWNED WITH RHO LOOP ON 90 bOVED

О. Д

L

---

## Page 94

19 3007 012057 ou

IN

: 064422

TOFiR DB-315/10100-76

WARNING NOTICE

ENSTTIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVE

PAGE 2 OF Y PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND ENT OF REPORT.

INCLUDING FENCING TEA WHICH HAD RECENTLY COMPLETED COMPETITION IN

VENEZUELA. D

3, GOMEE SAID THAT ON 30 SEPTEMBER THE CUBAN EMBASSY HAD

INFORMED THE DIRECTOHATE FON THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND

PREVENTION P DISIPS, THE VENEZUELAN CIVILIAN SECURITY SERVICE,

THAI a CUBAN EXILE NAMED SALVADOR R OM AN I HAS OBSERVING

THE CUBAN FENCING TEAM AT ITS CARACAS HOTEL. ROMAN! , GOMEE SAID.

88 A UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE AGENT.

COMMEN TE

COMME IMPLLED THAT THE CUBAN EMBASSY IS LOOKING INTO THE POSSIOILITY

THAT ROMANI'S ACTIVITIES ARE INVOLVED WITH THE PLANE CRASH, Y

PURTHERMOREO THE CUBANS TOLD DISIP THAT THE TEAM HOULD DEFEND

IPSELF SHOULD ROMANI CAUSE TROUBLE. SHORTLY AFTER THE CUBANS

MADE PHEIR LULLINGS KNOWN TO DISIP, GOMER BALD THAT ROMANI'S

¿AOTIVITICS CHASED.

]COMMENTI IN MYC=YA99,

PDP1A09-185/00083 -10. OF 28" BEPTHER, , THA:84M.

DOURCE RUPURTUD THAT THO CUDAN UMBASSY MAD COMPLAINED. TO

DIDIP ABOUT ANTI-CUDAN DOVINNMINT ARTICLOO APPEANINO IN THE LOCAL

PARUDA IN THIO INSTANGE THE CUBAND INDIGATÃO FURIA WIGLINONESS TO

ROPALLATE AGAINS ME NIMBMAN INVOLVDO SO DIBIA DID NOP

1x2709

7:4112

---

## Page 95

14-00206

y 3408 (27-4162299425

1Oд 3007 OROLET DO .

IN 064422

TDAR DB-315/10100-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE J OF A PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPOIT.

TAKE ACTIONS.

SO DURING THE WEEK OF A OCTOBER LUIS MARTINE:

MONOCAL• CUBAN FIRST SECRETARY, SAID THAT THE ENBASSY WAS

AWARE THAT CUBAN EXILE EXTREMIST ORLANDO @ O S-EW NAS IN

VINE BUELA. THE EMBASSY, ME SAID, WAS ATTEMPTING TO INVESTIGATE

DOSCH'S ACTIVITIES IN VENERUELA AND TO DETERMINE WHETHER:

WAS STILL IN THE COUNTRY.

MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE EMPASSY WAD

ABSHIVED UNCONFIRMED MEPGATS THAT BOSEN MAD MOVED OUT. OF TME

CARACAS AHEA AND WAS THEN IN THE VENEZUELAN INTERIOR.

COMMENTA FOR AN HARLIER REPORT ON THE PRESENCE OF BOSCH

IN VENEQUILA, SEE HYSTA98, TOFIRDO 989109824-760 05 30

DUDY MORNO FROM A USUALLY RELIABLE BOURGEON

2k

Alerin

DO IN ADDITIUN PO AND IN CONNEGTION WITH ENVHOTIGATIONE INTO

•TWO POSSIOLE PRESENCE OF DOSEN IN VERONUOLA, CUDAN AMBASSY

OPPICIALO ARE CONGRAND ARQUT THE MACHING QUNNINO OR THE GUSAN BMBABBY

IN GARAGAS DY UNKNOWN ABBAILANTR ON PHE MARLY MORNINO OF A OCTOBA,

• 1888 MI

SEND 90

PONS

423495

---

## Page 96

S009 ON

IN 064422

TORI: DE-315/10100-76

WARNING NOTICE

ENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PACE M OR 4PAGES.

•SECRET

PUITHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SULECT 1O

CONTROLS STATED AT. BEGINNING AND END OF REPONT.

REPORT GLASS SE CRE TOWARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO POREIGN NATS ONALSO

MOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORA CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIEU MY RECORDEL REPORPING OFFICER, XEDS 2;

2: 290309. 1922584

BunTER-AN

621

iRV

Dr 2 4 70

19. 917490

don none!

do Jog Gad

44.ACHR

1 07 3100810012

---

## Page 97

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 9 SEPTEMBER 1976

CIASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBISCI: ORIANDO BOSCH AVILA, IMAOIS VIOLATOR

FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

---

## Page 98

14-00000

#10010 $=

SECRET

34

24

FILE, VE. INATER

55 4O AGC/DO • OSGIC•

IID, OPS/LNT • CIN

HO ME DO OPS/TTO"

Y 863629

€1A590

PAGE 0L

TOR12986808 SEP 20

ET T SED TO INTEL

WVC-7ua

CITE

TOO DIRECTOR INFO

NANS

Moropo

HAS

N84

Hep

WHINTEL IMSTONE MASPIRE

SUPDATA!

IN. 056842

NoK

FILEDI

OD OBJECTIVED D.I, INDEX BOSCH, GARCIA.

FILE DEFERRED.

C6. BY 835133.

29014291

XXXX

OC. MICRO. SER.

NOV 2 4 1976

MICROFILMEDO

FAL

29 SEP 4

1904

RECORD COPY

lb 0199-292

29 Pep 26

---

## Page 99

3015 em

всеті

"DATE 29 SEPTOMBER 197

054342.

PAGE I O02 PAGES

INTHNDENCE INFORMATION CARLE

ENTE ONTELACENCA NONE NO ANO MATIONS ONOR VE

advance information

DISSEMINATION AND ENTHACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATON

DISTRIBUTION TO: SDU

REPORT CLASS YEC"

TOWARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALSO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORICONSULTANYS

COUNTRYS VENEZUBLA

DO 10

LATE SEPTEMOGA 1076

SUBJECT!

PRESENCE OF ORLANDO BOSCH IN VENEZUELA UNDER THE PRO

TECTION OF VENEQUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

ANDRES PERE?

IN LATE-SEPTOMDER 10%0 GENERAL RAUL QIMENER DAINIAO

MRAD OF THE DIREGTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLiGENCE AND

PRVENTION DISIPS, BASS THAT ORLANDO É O SE HO A CUBAN EXILE

LABOR, 10 GURRUNTLY IN VENDOUGLA UNDER INE PROTECTION OP PRESIDENY

CARLOS ANDROO

THE PRESIDENT, GIMENDA BAID, MAD ORDERED

ORLANDO

•001 A.

• A PANGIDENTPAL SECURITY AND

INTOGLIQUNGO ADVISOR, TO PROTECT AND ASSIST BOSCH DURINO MIE SPAY INI

---

## Page 100

14-00000

5 2202 ama

DI 054302

Worl

NATIVE INTE

WARNING NOTIC

LUCENCE SOUNCES AND METHODS LAVOLVED

PAGE 2 O0 2 PAGES

SECRET

PUNTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE ON THIS INFORMADON SUMICT VE

CONTROLS STAILD AT AEGINNINO AND END OP RIPORI

VENEZUELA.

COMMENTA: FOR ANOTHER REPORT ON BOSCHIS PRESENCE

IN VENEZUELA SEE MVC-7483, PDTIADB-315/80430-YO.. OF MID SEPTEMBER.

PROM A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY, FOR A REPORT ON BARCIAIS

MOLE AS DE FACTOR DISID CHIEF SEE HYC-T493, TOFIRDE-31SO

FROM ANOTHER SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY, WHILE CURRENTLY

A NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN, GARCIA IS A NATIVE BORN CUBAN. I

8, PRESIDENT. PEREZ, GIMENEZ SAID HAS BEEN SYMPATMETIC TO

BOSCM FOR SOME TIME. FURTHERMORE, GIMENEZ SAID THAT WHEN DOSCH WAS

DETAINED BY DISIP IN NOVEMBER 1974• PRESIDENT PEREZ. PER SONALLY

ARRANGED HIS RELEASE AND SUSSEQUENT TRAVEL TO CHILE.

DISSEM!

NEPORT CLASS & & CRET WARNING. NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREION NATIONALSO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS:

CLANDIFIED BY ARCORDED REPORTINO OFFICER.

Xa DS -a

01010099872

---

## Page 101

14-00000

cane see basis 2246=

1010.

BiT

STASY

Wait!

IN NEESIPS

1д8 : осоро, оліты 4.014. 000г

<SN/ID

Т 240370

G1A6SS

PAOR 0S-0S

TO Re 292007 1 5ED 90.

T 2SI9S0N 8EP Y0 STATE

IN B4S8%Y

CITE

TO I

DIRECTOR®

MO INTEL REAM

MHSPIKE

MOULD APPRECIATE NOS PHINKING ON MNO OR WHAT

ORQANIZATION GARRIED OUT LETELIER ASSASSINATION.

& HAS FO? INVESTIGATION EXPLORED POSSIBILITY

ASSASSINATION MIGHT DE MORK OF. ORLANDO BOS C H'S CORUP

N THE! 20S 209998, ERO IMPDET.

ISABEL PROGRAM

AEST ANI

op: :3t F0o matere

E7947 R151. 1

• 183

201-299292

019 - 300-28

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 102

sat see bose 12.

10ra 10nes 11:1

SE C

STASI

4.18

T746282

PLAN

DAGE

01-01

TORIZZZIZYE SEP TO

•BC I E 1 2221152 SEP D0 STAFF

cIte

TO!

INFO DIRECTOR, I

I N

01]

WNINTEL REAM

REF!

(IN 046859)

SNOT SENT OR NEEDEDL

•IN 039240

8:ONO OBJECTION RELEASE OF REF & MATERIAL ON ORLANDO

BOSCH.

8. FILE: 201-289292. EZ IMPDET

ROLA

PREPARE TUM 10A

7160

HQ (0)

TON TA CH

RECORD COPY

2250T6

0801999192

---

## Page 103

14-00000

683/185=

The KCHP L-dison Office,

2450 Massachusetts

AVE:

Washington,

D.C.

20008

N76620-15-83688

SECRET

it' september 1976

NE. Arthur Stiupson,

C.I.A.,

washington, D.C.

EVERCITO SECRETO DE CUBA

(SECRET ARMY OF CUBA - USA)

Doar (artluer.

My Headquarters advises that the above captioned

faction, which is Miand based, has been sending what

appeare

to be warsing letters to several Canadian escablish-

ments, publie and private, at home and abroad.

We had the

handwriting analyzed and our expert stated that those

letters we do have were all written by

the, same person.

Recently the SJERCITO SECRETO DE CUBA (ESC) has

one to our attention again and we are speculating tha

it nay be tied in with the UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIO

(URO), headed by Orlando Bodch AVILA, and composed of five

anti-Castro Cuban exile (ACE) terroriat groups: ACCION

CUBANA (AC) • FRENTE NACIONAL DE: LIBERACION CUBANO (FINC) •

MOVINIENTO NACICNALISTA CURANO: (CNN) • BRIGADE 2506, and

THE 17th OF APRIL MOVEMENT.

UnD gard into being in June 1976 and ince that

time has clairad cosponsibility for everal terrorist

attacks, 1.".:, the airport bombing in Kingaton, Jamaica,

the attempted kidnapping of the Cuban Consul in Morida,

Mexico, and murdor of an

officlal of the Cuban Institute

CROAS

FILE COPY YOR

894292

Cont de..

---

## Page 104

14-00000

16NLO 18-0J(8)

SECRET

di Soptember 1976

of plahorson during the strampeed kidnapping, an vassy

• the bombing of the Cuyanese Connulate Conora! 1r

Pore of spain, trinidad.

we would appreciate receiving

any backaround

data you may be able to supply us regarding the URO

and EJERCITO SECRETO DE CUBA.

¿1 similar request la baing made to the ral.

Youre truly.

Milla c

Kennoth G. Osborne,

•intant Liaison Officer

a past, no

1:0 10 / 100

moment of

Government

f.: inid wilton tho espions paradsaion

el the torment ol Cinde

---

## Page 105

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE (-

SECRET

STAFF

coms: LA8

TO: CABLE SEC. Y

PIS RELAY

DIRECTOR 2E

40.7

SEC.

IIN 0436081 TO

0-

957046

arsen or.{

FOR INFO•

COPY ATTACHED •

08 >

CALAICI

DATE: 20 SEPT 7h

CLAN

CALAMRA

A a a ROBUTION EY OTHER THAN THE SESHE AFRE IS MAGHAIRO

Mariannate

8 8

9L: 071

IMFDET

907248

---

## Page 106

14-00000

.. 2005 :8085

POTAS CUP188-

SECRET

N: N:0

1º: 004687

LA LO

so are so .. o

FILE, TR; DOR PBARE IP/AN, IID, OPS/INT • CE .

AACIR OPSIIIG 4=

236560

E1 15 35

PAGE B1

TOR 1019532 SEP 76

SECRET 101YETE SEP 96 INTEL

CITE

101

Daan

DALURITY DIRECTUA INFOL

NAB

•HJK

AWS

NGG

iler

28

AGENCY MESSAGE

...

TH 84 5660

NiVC-7483

Am 001

NEE

5D

MNINTEL KMSTONE MMSPIKE

FILED •

OD OBJECTIVE? dOd.

INDEX BOSCH, FERNANDEZ, AND PENA, FILE DEFERRED.

Ch. 8Y: 833133.

18/1910₴

DOG ACTO. SER.

SEP # 9 1976

MILIUTILNED

1,000

i U SiP

RECORD COPY

Ten 0099-82

18 Bep 76.

---

## Page 107

2015 Or

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE CP%"

NTELLICENCE NORMATION CARLE

COATIVE DITRLCENCA ONE TO MATORS IVOLVED

::.:

DA: E.

1a SEPTEMBER I*

IN

043b08

PAGE I OF

PAGES

novanion intermatio

DISSENTRATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATON

DISTAIBUTION TO: SDO

REPORT CLASS SECRE TO HARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLiGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASAOLE TO CONTRACTOORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA/CUBA

MID-SEPTEMBER $976

SUBJECT!

ARRIVAL OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH IN VENEZUELA!

AND HIS COMMENTS ON THE ACTIVITIES OF HIS GROUP

1, IN MID-SEPTEMBER 1976 ORLANDO

8 O SC H. A CUBAN EXILE

LEADER • SAID THAT HE HAS UNITED ALL OF THE VARIOUS CUBAN EXILE GROUPS

INTO ONE CLOSELY -KNIT ORGANIEATION. HHICH FOLLOWS MiS LEAD. BOSCH

GAVE SHE GROUP NO TITLE, BUT SAID THAT IT WAS WELL-ORGANIZED ÄND

- PLANNED TO CONTINUE FIGHTING THE REGIME OF CUBAN PRIME MINISTER

PICEL CASTRO.

R. BOSCH, WHO ARRIVED IN CARACAS, VENERUELA, VA AN UNSPEÖIFIED

ROUTE ON OR ABOUT 15 SEPTEMBER, SAID PHAT ON A PREVIOUS VISIT TO

VENEZUELA HE HAD MET WITH PREBIDENT CARLOS ANDRES DER I AND

ORLANDO @ A A CIA AN EXTRA-OFFICIAL PROBIDANTIAL BECURITE

---

## Page 108

14-00000

3007 DESOLAT SHE

IN

043608

TDAR

WARNIN'C NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE. 2 OF. 4 PAGES

SECRET

• FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION, SUBECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

CHIEF. DURING THIS MEETING PEREZ TOLD BOSCH THAT HE SYMPATHIZED.

WITH BOSCH'S ANTI-CASTRO EFFORTS BUT THAT HE WOULD ALLOW NO SÜCH

ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA, AT THÄT TIME BOSCH GAVE PEREZ HIS WORD

THAT HE WOULD UNDERTAKE NO TERRORIST ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA. AND

PEREZ. IN TURN, GAVE BOSCH A TOKEN CONTRIBUTION-OF U.S. $500°00

FOR HIS ORGANIZATION, IN RECENTLY ARRANGING FOR MIS RETURN TO

VENEZUELA, BOSCH SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN PLEASED TO FIND THAT VENE=

ZUELAN AUTHORITIES ISSUED HIM A VISA, IN HIS TRUE NAME, WITHÖUT

COMMENT!

A. BOSOM COMPLAINED PHAT NE WAS RUNNINO OUT OF GAPE MAVING.

THE DOMINICANS; HE SAIDA MAD ASKED HIM PO LEAVE AND THAT. OF COURSE.

MB. WAS NOT WELCOME IN THU UNITED STATES. WHILE THU. GOVERNMENT OP

GNILE, HE SAID, MAD DONE NOTHINO TO CURE HIS ACTIVITIES, IP ALBO

DAVI MIM NO ARAL BUPPORT, COSTA RICAS ME NOTED WITH DIBDAIN, 88

PRO-CASTRO,

DO BOSCH SAID. THAP HU NOW REALINOD THAT IT WAS A MINTAKE 40

---

## Page 109

3007 083011.0HV0U

IN

013636

TOrI

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFOPMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND EID OF REFORT.

HAVE CARRIED OUT. BOMBINGS IN THE UNITED STATES AND SAID THAT HE DID

NOT PLAN TO MAKE UNITED STATES PERSONNEL OR PROPERTY THE TARGETS

OF ANY FURTHER INCIDENTS, IN COMMENTING ON HIS FEBRUARY 1976.

DETENTION BY COSTA RICAN OFFICIALS. BOSCH SAID THAT HE MAD NEVER

INTENDED TO MAKE AN ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF THE UNITED STATES

SECRETARY OF STATE MHO HAS AT THAT TIME VISITING LATIN AMERIÉÃ.

*; IN COMMENTING ON THE DISAPPEARANGE OF THO CUBAN EMBASSY

OPFICIALS IN BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA, BOSEN SAID THAT DESPITE RUMORS

PO THE CONTRARY, HIS GROUP MAD NOT KIDNAPPED THE CUBANS. 308ëM

OPINED THAT THE CUBANS HAD PROBABLY. DEFECTED AND WOULD TURN UP

SOONER OR LATER.

DO BOOCHA WHO HAS DAINEE A GOOD DEAL OF WEIGHT, BAID THAP HI

WAS BLL AND DHYSICALLY EXHAUSTED, NEVERTHELESS, BOSCH: INDICATED "NAT

ME MOULD CONTINUE PIONTINO AGAINST THE CASTRO REGIMEN

COMMENTO DOGEN 18 OOUIQUELY ILL AND SUFFERINO PREM PTE PROBLEMS,

DEODITO DOSCHIS GLAIMS OP A BPRONG, UNITED ANTI-CASTRO GROUP,.

DOSOMIS DITERIORATINO PHYBICAL CONDITION MAKE IT DOUBTFUL THAT NO

WILL DE ABLO TO MAINTAIN CONTROL OF IT POR YEAY LONO•!

_ DISIEMI

BENT TOO C

---

## Page 110

3007 ONSOLE

IN

043606

'SECRET

WARNING NOTTO

ENSTTIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCE: AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE y OF Y PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUMECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END. OF REPORT.

REPORT CLASS.

SE CRE TO WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS.:

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, XEDSO?

---

## Page 111

STATE CABLE

FROM .AMEMBASSY GUATEMALA 6515

DATE:

20 SEPTEMBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: ALLEGED FLOTTING BY CUBAN EXITE

ORLANDO BOSCH

---

## Page 112

SECRE I 171325Z SEP 76 STAFF

scoutints

CITE

TO₴

OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP

WINTEL

FRỌM

SIB.J% POSSIBLE OPERATIONAL ACCESS TO DOMINICAN REPUBLIC OFFICIAL

I OUR COOPERATIVE CONTACT-!

OF

•HAS INFORMED US

THAT ANSELMO PAULINOS

DOMINICAN ANBASSADOR TO FRANCE AND SWITZERLAND,

NAY WISH TO ASSIST THE AGENCY IN REGARD TO THE DETERIORATING POLITI

CAL SITUATION IN HIS HOME COUNTRY• PAULINO'S SON, A NATURALIZED US

CITIZEN, WORKS WITH

AND WILL BE INTRODUCED TO US IN THE

MEAR FUTURE®

& PLEASE DETERVINE FOR US WHETHER LA DIVISION HAS ANY OPERATIONAL

INTEREST IN PAULINO AND/OR

IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN GENERAL

FILEA MISC

E8 IMPDET CL BY 015344

BE C

RE'

28 врт6.

---

## Page 113

14-00000

15тN7004054415

*-** 3005:01!!!

THAL COPIES

SECRET

1...

A UPOET

'She 1º: 000607

PERSON/UNT NOTICED

EVeN WAIT

LA 10

AE76!

236568

...d..

TILE, VR, BIGHTBIBE IP/AS, TID. OPS/INT • CT 4.

AGENCY MESSAG

E1 A5 35

PAGE 81

TOR11019937 SEP 76

SECRET 10LYBYE SEP TO INTEL

CITE

TOS: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFOL

IN 063608

MVC- 7483

ÜNINTEL KMSTONE MHSPIKE

SUPDATAS ERWAHOO FOR SOURCE DESCRIPTION.

DIRECTLY. SOURCE PARA 2 /

COMMENT

OD OBJECTIVE!

del.

INDEX BOSCHO FERNANDEZ, AND PENA. FILE DEFERRED.

CL. BY 039133.

FILEDI

18/10102

10SP 1S

1J

3 4

5)32-99-28

---

## Page 114

14-00000

83 J01S MO

SECHET

DA DISINAL USE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE NFORMATION CARLI

DISTINE ALICE CANNE DO TO SETICOS MOLTEO

DATE

SO SEPTEMBER SY

043608

PAGE I C

PAGES

The following repor

"advance informatio

BLATION AND EITRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED EY ORIGINATI

ISTRIBUTION TO: $DO

IMPOET EL

REPORT CLASS S E ER E PO MARNINE NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREION NATIONALSO

NGT FELEASABLE TO CONTRACTOORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA CUON

DO!

• MID-SEPTEMBER 8076

SUBJECTE ARRIVAL OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH IN VENEÄVELAI

AND HIS COMMENTE ON THE ACTIVITIES OF HIS GROUP

SO. IN MIDOSEPTEMBER 1976 ORLANDO BOS C HO A CUBAN EXILE

LEADER, SAID THAT ME HAS UNITED ALL OF THE VARIOUS CUBAN EX!'E GROUPS

BATO ONE CLOSELY-KNIT ORGANIZATION WHICH FOLLOWS HIS LEAD. BOSCH

GAVE THE GROUP NO TITLE. BUT SAID. THAT IT WAS. WELL-ORGANIZED AND

PLANNED TO CONTIQUE FIQHTING THE REGIME OF CUBAN PRIME MINISTER

8, BOSCH, WHO ARRIVED IN GARAGAS, VENEZUELA, VIA AN UNSPREsPIED

ROUTE ON OR ABOUT 1S BAPTUMBER: SAID THAT ON A PREVIOUS VIAL! YO

VUNIQUELA ME MAD MUT WITM PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRED DER ON AND

ORLANDO @ARO SAO AN EXTRA-OFFICIAL PRESIDENTIAL ANCURITE

---

## Page 115

14-00000

3000 m

NEITTVE UNTELUCENCIRADNE NOTINE SETHODS DITOLIED

SECRET

VORR

PAOR 2 CA I PAON

CHIEF, DURJAR THIS MEETING PEREZ TOLD BOSEM THA? HE BYMDATHTDED

MITU GOSENDS ANTS-CASTRO ETFORTS BUY THAT NE WOULD ALLOW MO BÜGH

ACTIVITIES IN VENERUELA, AT THAT TIME BOSCH GAVE PERER NES WOND

THAT HE MOULD UNDERTAKE NO TERRORIST ACTIVITIES IN VENEQUELA, AND

PERER, IN TURN, GAVE BOSCH A TOKEN CONTRIBUTION. OF U.S, 8900:00

FOR MIS ORGANIZATION, IN RECENTLY ARRANGING FOR HIS RETURN 7Ö

VENEZUELA, BOSCH SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN PLEASED TO FIND THAT VINE®

BUELAN AUTHORITIES ISSUED HIM À VISA, IN HIS TRUE NAME, WITHOUT

DELAY,

COMMENT :

*. BOSCH COMPLAINED THAT HE WAS RUNNING OUT OF BASE MAVENS.

THE DOMINICANS, HE SAID, HAD ASKED HIM TO LEAVE AND THAT, OF EDURSE.

NI WAS NOT WELCOME IN THE UNITED STATES. WHILE THE. DOVERNMENT OF

CHILE, ME SAID, HAD DONE NOTHING TO CURE HIS ACTIVITIES, IS ALSO

DAVI HIM NO REAL SUPPORT, COSTA RICÃO HE NOTED WITM. DISDAIN. !!

PRO• CASTRO;

BOSOM SAID TMAT HU NOW REALINUD THAT IT WAS A MISTAKO YO

CRIT

---

## Page 116

53: 2000 0100

9•3628

• TORR

WALINIC NOTICE

BENITIVE INTELICENCE SOLACES AND METHODS LATOLVED.

PAGE 300 4 PAGES.

SECRET

FUTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATON SURECT TC

CONTROLS STATED AT AGINNINO ANO ENO ON REPORY

MAVE CAURIED OUT BOMBINGS IN TUE UNITED STATUS AND SAID THAT HE DID

MOT PLAN TO MAKE UNITED STATES DERSONNEL OR PRODEOTY PUE PARATS

DE ANY PURTHER INCIDENTS. A COMMENTINO ON MIS FEBRUARY SOTA

DETENTION BY COSTA RICAN OFFICIALS. BOSCH SAID

PHAT ME HAD NEVER

INTENDED TO MAKE AN ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF PHE UNITED STATES

SECRETARY OF STATE UNO WAS AT THAT TIME VISITING LATIN AMERICA.

B. IN COMMENTING ON THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THO CUBAN EMBASSY

OFFICIALS IN BUENOS AIRESA ARGENTINA, BOSCH SAID THAT. DESPITE RUMORS

PO THE CONTRARY, HIS GROUP NAD NOT KIDNAPPED THE CUBANS.. BOSEN

OPINED THAT THE CUBANS HAD PROBABLY DEFECTED AND WOULD TURN UP

SOONER OR LATER.

%. BOSCH, WHO MAS GAINED A GOOD DEAL OF WEIGHT, SAID THAP ME

MAS SLE AND PHYSICALLY EXHAUSTED. NEVERTHELESS: BOSCH' INDICATED THAT

ME WOULD CONTINUE FIGHTING AGAINST THE CASTRO REGIME..

COMMENT: BOSCH IS OBVIOUSLY ILL AND SUFFERING FROM EYE PROBLEMS:

DESPITE BOSCH'S CLAIMS OF A STRONG, UNITED ANTI-CASTRO GROUP:

BOSCHIS DETERIORATING PHYSICAL CONDITION MAKE IT DOUBTUL THAP HE

MILL BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN CONTROL OF IT FOR VORY LONG. I

DI8SEMI

SENT: TOI

---

## Page 117

14-00000

Faste

ONE TEE

eat 9 et

LAS

1 898010

#F.

-A-.

FILE

0222

NEE,

0102

• CN

8682

059

614428

PAGE 08

TORI LOSSESE RED YO

3 В О Р ДОДА ПОР ДО ПРАЇ

to o

PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL REAN MASPEKE

ENOT BENT ALL MODERSI (ON

1(42 039241)

§• ERYTHROID-JI NEPORTED PMAT ORLANDO BOSCH DEPARTED

MANAQUA POR QUATEMALA CITY ON O SEPTENGGA V8A COPA FLIGHT

6, 108

20.

8 ERYTHROID-3S APOLOGIEND POR DELAY

BUT SAID HIS SUAVEILLANCE MAD LOST BOSCH AND ONLY DISCOVENED

M8O DEPARPURE ON S3 SEPTEMBER APTER REVISHING CLIONT MANIPESTE.

FEBARO ADVISO LEGAL APPACHED: OF

DOSOM•& TRAVEL.

AND A AND PRIVIOUS PRATTIO

REPORTED BOSCH ARRIVAL IN MANAQUA ON 80 AÚdUBP:

B: +8688 - 201-208892€ d86 IMPeTo

IN I.8T

:. (2. J)

ALLY

RECORD COPY

16 Amp 16

201-299292

---

## Page 118

3000

043606

WARNNG NOTICE

INITIVE INTELUCENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

'SECRET

TDPR

PAGE y OF M PAGES

REPORT CLASS

SE ERE TO LARKING NOTICE-SENSITIVE: INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS?

---

## Page 119

14-00000

• FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 27 AUGUST 1476

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ORLANDO LAZARO FERNANDEZ VAZQUEZ.

FBI FILE NO: 105-22619 (MIAMI)

---

## Page 120

OUTGOIN• MESSAGE

OnF

0

019H68198

SECRET

100000-

STAFF

CONS: CHE

INDE

D

0

INF®:

0

3549072

DIRECTOR

stifist

913396

DISSEM BY: 0

PER

TO: INMEDIATE I

WNINTEL KASTONE Y

REF!.A.

DIRECTOR 910267&

J INFOL

TIN 9402471a=4

D-O PERMISSION GRANTED TO PASS INFO CONTAINED INL

PARAGRAPH TWO, TO CHARGE FOR FOREIGN MINISTER

2. FILE: " 201-299292. EZ IMPDET M

TRAVEL PROSLA

ASSTRACT

INDER

PREPARE FOR FALMENO

Cedi ma. (2. g)

CAGE DEN (16)

NO TONG

DATHI JE SEPT 7

0101

UNITI

Wate

LA CAN SY

2244

6/54

лопота

CALICOS

CAA/MCA

RIPRODUCTION BY OTMIR

GUINO OFPICE A PROMOTED

RECOND COPY

9509016

001 - 99292

TENCAR

IMPDET

Ch BYe 083921

---

## Page 121

14-00000

#29.8.1=

19:1.

1A8

RE

FILE

IPIAN, DDOZ, ALL/ADO

0B/IT64, NE8, 75/Eg2, SSA, SS/S0Q 4,

1C14, 0F3 LIN.,

224908

ELAZE7

PA GE

21

TPA59&23292 SEP

IN C3529:

SECRET JAZZZEE SED 76 STAFF

CITE

i..

TOO DIRECTOR INEC

_ I

WN INTEL

MMSPIKE

REFI DIRECTOR 9127%%

REF DOMEINJ. WHICH WIDELY COVERED IN LOCAL RSSS. OCCURRED

File: Brigade 201.

ON 31 AUGUST PA POE MEXICAN CONSULATE IN DOWNTOWN GUATEMALA CITY.

THE CONSULATE SUFFERES SOME DAMAGE AND A RECEPTIONIST WAS

SLIGHTLY INJUREL. SINCE BOMB EXPLODED WITHIN THE MEXICAN

CONSULATE OFFICES, ANCH LOCATED IN A LARGE BUILDING. IT 85

LIKELY THAT THE CONSULATE WAS INDEED THE TARGET, NEITHER

ESMICA-BA NOR ESCE-& IWHE INVESTIGATED THE BOMBINGS. MAD ANY

MARD INFORMATIOA DA THE IDENTITIES OR MOTIVES OF THE BOMBERS.

ALTHOUEN SOME SUSS:"ION WAS ATTACHED TO THE QUARD WHO WAS MOMO

BIER ON THE DAY EE "E BOMBING.

---

## Page 122

14-0000

STATE CABLE

FROM AMEMBASSY SANTO DOMINGO 4497

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

TERRORISM AND ASSASSINATION PLOTS:

MEETING WITH! WILLS

---

## Page 123

?

case si asson. 27...

THIN LANY BASAN

-LAS

9. 224021

to- Pain

0438°2

SECRET

I. 514 LA

..92 • 01Y2.1

DE. FILE. VR

PRINES,

000₴

AGE/ODO, DISLITEY, OPSLENT,

CLY, PSlEGa

E1A008

PAGE 01

TORI1421401 SEP

.?6.

$ 1081392 SEP 76 STAFF

IN 030241

E

CITE

10%

PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

INFO PRIORITY

WNINTEL REAM MHSPIKE

REFS!

À, EMBASSY GEORGETOWN EXDIS 1818 # 95266)

DaU

Bo EMBASSY SANTO DOMINGO EXDIS 449% (*

S, REF A MESSAGE.

REPORTS ON jO SEPT MEETINO OF AMBASSADOR AND LEGAL APPACHE

WITH FOREIGN

MINISTER

CONCERNINO CUDAN EXILE ORGANIZATIONS AND

COMBINO OF GUYANESE CONSULATE IN PORT. OF SPAIN: ACCORDINO TO

_SAID THAT CORU AND ORLANDO BOSCH OPERATING OUT OF

dee tis Third

: (8. 9)

,S1. 61.0

Aid

Tian i

SANTO DOMINGO.

RECOHD COPY

14. Lup 26

201-299292

---

## Page 124

VOTA CORES

_ SECRET.

abroce o

STAFF

FIF

FILE

ACTION e

9 224021

UIAU00

PAGE 02-82

PORIDUZLIOL SEP 26

IN 030241

S TUER 201-299292. EZ. IMPDET.

NQ RECORD IN CABLE SECRETANIAT

no coder cree

276

4ade9etr03

201506:4

10U3"K.

102t3

G12E

rectado sieste

heliothondestroon/cataceaedesg

W: 29k

-1044

sia?

De TO 1OG

50

---

## Page 125

OUTGOING MESSAGE

D

0

D

381

837322

DIRECTOR

I LAE DOZ

DODO NEE ACCID:

13277

0

0

TO B

UNINTEL MHSPIKE Y

3. PYIS PER LNERGO INFO DID 3 SEP I60 ORLANDO U!S? S C HO

MEAD OF CUBAN EXILE GROUP "CORU", CALLED CONTACTS IN ADVISING

THAT CORU REPS BOMBED MEXICAN EMBASSY IN GUATEMALA CITY ON & SEP..

CAUSING EXTENSIVE DAMAGE. END FYI. HOWEVER, FEIS INFO DTD 2 SEP

INDICATED THAT MEXICAN CONSULATE, GUATEMALA CITY, BOMBED, AND

THAT ATTACK MAY HAVE BEEN INTENDED FOR MINING COMPANY OCCUPYING

SAME BLDG AS CONSULATE. Y

:.. E. MOULD APPRECIATE CONFIRMATION OF BOMBING, PLUS ADDITIONAL

INFO INCLUDING CLARIFICATION OF TARGET, IF POSSIBLE. Y

TULL PIPES

10: 1

J• NO FILE. E? IMPET•r

L. CAY

COORDINATIONS LA/NACA/M

CoSt GuiDi

LA/HACA/GSIG

LAPCAR

LA/COG

< that

0Rid:

ADITI •

"IT!

0-200 - 6-784/3

28 SEPTEHBER 197

OPS/ETG

4496

A Crabis

RA O00000

14 dep 16

501-299212

AEPRODUCTION BY OTAGA THAN THA IBOWNO OFFIGO I PROMOITEO

Кіта

C2OPS/34

IMPORT

CL DYI 000701

---

## Page 126

OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF "O

SECRET

COMP: LAS

0

0723537

mas DAN

NES

DDO/DO,

DUDS, c/oRs,

INFO PRIORITY

DIRECTOR

Abs/osg sD02!

mong 10215101

D133H01 0Y.45

PER

• AM

TOS PRIORITY

WNINTEL MISPIKE Y

REF:

IN 0319931# ENOT NEEDED

&. WE HAVE LEARNED THAT THE STATE DEPARTHENT IS TREQUESTING

INFORMATION PROM THE FBI ON THE ACTIVITIES AND PERSONNEL OF THE

COORDINATION OF THE UNITED REVOILUTIONARY ORGANIZATION ECORUS.

THE DEPARTHENT WILL INFORM ENBASSY GEORGETONN WHAT INFORMATION THE

FBI IS WILLING TO RÈLEASE FOR PASSAGE TO THE GOG.

TRAVEL INFORMATION SHOWS ONE G.M. NOBLE• U.S. CITIZEN BORN Y AUG

594HA PLANNED TO TRAVEL TO EAST GERMANY IN 15449 HOWEVER THERE IS

NO CONTIRMATION OF TRAVEL.Y

D' ME HAVE NO ADDITIONAL INPORMATION ON CORU. WE HAVE LEARNED

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND PRANK CASTRO

PAZ

IN

NICARAGUA AS: OF & SIFTIMOER: IN VICU OP

2-901-742365

RECORD Cr

i Vigo 16

801-249492

ROPRODUCTION OY OTNER THAN THE IBAUNO OPPIGE I0 PROMITED

IMPOET

Or 089211

---

## Page 127

td-innod

OUTGOING MESSAGE

MOEAERS CANTENUBA CRL"

D

OHF 0

BAANBATOn

SECRET

STAFF

÷ C@0P:

DIRECTOR

0P®:

FILM

910267

DISSEW 0V1

PER

0 • #

G. FILE: 202-2992924 203-7423650 EZ IMPDET-+

aclood doo psuces aue covuce de doe doewdarehdro recttecrld

Diacrc naor fuc do oueracrse Couoeped Coorbegt dec dOtee

ae adorisouerg gerof acuozad Pan berdcas drocite 22 124

CeM Peosudan/udadr pecza CuarzeR Nno OL 08 d35 .

.':

100nten 20t

pexpalaicon st

43973236

b esta

fPye,

vadeR2uch 20C doc 02 a0E FGodacetea

SEAO OROED C4A6HG 2ERUE

pnoyaauana

H70"E

10 7V4 6he6 M5t

CL L: 410

RB/9

Càh Haneuny

*el- 1g: -

*e Vv.

BATEI

D SCFT 7W

0001

viite

AC/LA/CAR/GT

3849

Bfriten

Spoued tre

P*U6AC6

DE/LA/RICA®

STELESOOND)

3 40r0: PisO 007 :65

AMPLOBUO EOY OTHER THAN IAR IBAUINE OPAISAI9PR, O1TEB

RET

APAPPANE TOS OMAG

m1u (0)

Acn nh

SSANSA

Impoes

Et or, 084a

---

## Page 128

14-00000

"?!"

icely

SECRET

PENSOR UNT NOTHE

ADVANCE SODY INBURO MOTIO

ACTION WAIT

LAS

FILE.

sestitey

210060

E1A294

PAGE 01

TOR:682204Z SEP 76

SE GRE T B821D0Z SEP 76 STAFF

CITE

TO: DIRECTOR.

INFO

STAFF

IN 033329

WN INTEL REAM MHSPIKE

• REFS:

B.

(033511927/03)

(SENT DIRECTOR.

ONLY

1. ERYTHROID -JS REPORTED FRANK CASTRO

PA? DEPARTED

MANAGUA FOR MIAMI. ON I SEPTEMBER 76 VIA PACA FLIGHT NO.. 310.

ORLANDO BOSCH IS STILL. IN MANAGUA AND, ACCORDING. PO

ERYTMROID 33• HAS CONTACTED SEVERAL MEMBERS OF THE LOCAL. CUBAN

COMMUNITY®

# 1861 80102998980

E2. IMPD&T,

RECORD COPY

201-2992921

---

## Page 129

• •660 719090 1090рідту

PERSON UNTY NOTED

SECRET.

ISTAFF

P. FILE

LAF

- ACTIN •

PlAN

isola cloes

44 PS/562

200097

€1A232

PAGE 01•02

TOR:0621232 SEP 76

§ E C

CITE

10 &

E

0820502 SEP 76 STAFF

+ 701

INFO DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL

REFS!

0,88

(027103)

(032153)

0L:1

1i1.d tiGa

PER REF A.

IN MANAGUA AS OF 30 AUGUST.

_STILL WAITING FOR

WHERE BOSCH IS CURRENTLY LOCATED.

INFORMATION RECEIVED.

So DEFER FILE.

EZ, IMPDET.

MAY BE TOLD THAT BOSCH MAS

TO REPORT ON

WILL ADVISE WHEN THIS

orlands: 680061281

18

IN 833314

RECORD COPY

or Leat 76

70151299292

---

## Page 130

14-00000

• alla

1 1 00g 110

SE C

LAB

hD 011e.

I out.

809872

PAGE 02-B1

_T0R10723508 SEP 20_

BY2ZJ0N SED YA STATT

14. 032132

JINFO DIRECTOR.

"EQUE ST

PASS

FOLLONING MESSAGE FROM LEGAL ATTACHE

PROMI

URGENTLY REQUEST THAT

=

BE

APPROACHED

FOR AMY CONFIRMATION THAT ORLANDO BOSCHO ANTI-CASTRO

ACTIVISTA NAS

LAS OF SEPTEMBER THO LAST.*

FILE

50-2-404.

E2 • IMPDET •

TORE FRAI

2 CITACT

AErI

Giug

CHE SA (CO

TUTINE

RECORO COPY

ARGR

07 dep 76

201-299292

---

## Page 131

FBI CABLE

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

DATE: 3 SEPTEMBER 1976

SUBJECT: COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY

ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)

---

## Page 132

14-00000

OUTGOING - MESSAGE

-

•S :

0220221

Sona

907454

cons: c/2A8 mo: me clatar, clesalis,

c/ops, c/cra, clorslato a

•132

TOR FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTESATION PINTELLIGENCE DIVISION.

DEPT OP STATE ISY/S/PIB: SECRET SERVICEI/INTELLIGENCE DIVISION U

SI CRÉ T-MARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELCASAULE TO FORETON NATIONALS--NOT

RELCASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS: V

SUBJECT: ODOMINICAN REPUBLIC - NICARAGUA, ORLANDO 8 OS EN AVILAS

¡CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST-Y

FIRCI-322/02696-7by

SO REFERENCE IS MADE TO FIRCI-312/02647-71. DATED SI AUGUST

347H. THE POLLONING ADDITIONAL INPORMATION MAS BEEN OBTAINED ON..

ORLANDO B O SCH AVILAS

Гріеки

ON I SEPTEMBER 1976 |

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA HAD ARREVÉ IN MANAGUA, AND NAS GIVEN PER

FESSION TO REMAIN THERE IN TRANSIT STATUS FOR A PERIOD OF UP TO

THIRTY SetS.

HOYZEPP:ON & SEPTEMEEP. 397k

REPORTED

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA MAD OSTAINCO A VENEZUELAN VISA. IN MANAGUA •Y

MED CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED MEFORTING OFFICER. EGDS JrZ.N.

Darlo

0mM0.

Eno

RECORD COPY

MNPROSUGTICN OT OTHER THAN THE ISAUINA OPPICA IS PROMOITED

SECRET

2 s

281-2992962

IMPOET

CL BY: 086090

---

## Page 133

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

0

SECRET

торопо от

пРО: PIL

907954

00

D1SSE080.

DASCO OMI

DIN 027J0J1 ANDL

DIN DETR001 & SEPTENDER 197L. PROJECTU: ERRATIC/EMPYREX OBJECTIVEI I

CABLE SECA PLE MANE CES COPIES AVAILABLE TO IPAN FOR 201-299242.

relittle Tenth

Mitter:

24171

et eur chink vacating:

15h00x.9oe

PAN 1 1.77

E04.005 1090081060

2645:

2073"

36298646072

2077ST

COMANS

Leavera

MUSIC A CANCARTE

COPS/LSN

LA/COG

lIN DRAFTI

J lIN DRAFTI

DATI: & SEPTEMBER

000г

LA/MACAN/CN

BIT!

moments

BEGREY

IMPOST

Ch. BY: DAM6090

---

## Page 134

14-00000

?:.

8444

In144o140199

BEGRET

5: 16033.2332221

LA8

1610 !

T 104519

•15:989:00740

R. FiLE.

va. IPlar, NE8, 0C02,

AGS/ORO, ORSLITGE, ASNlia,

, PS/EG2

EIAL6A

TORI ESZZIZE SEP 16

0182008 SEP 90 STAFF

CITE

IN D27JA3.

F.ic. 83006.201

0e78-9-08

! MA GO LATE

MNSRTEL BEAM MHSPIKE

REFI

(INOa1258)

S: REQUEST PERMISSION ADVISEL

DEVELOPHEN! TO HAVE MEM ALERTI

ANDASSADOR ADVISED.

•I; FILEI

801-92992821 209-9743369;

JINFO PRiORiTY DIRECTOR I

L NERGO

OF REF

SECURITY SERVICES.

Ea. iMPDET:

---

## Page 135

14-00000

120o 86 6 013868 0i72 PEr-

F ADON. 10n0 001 6 0

S-S-C-RET

A9:AOC SUP

Cet ous 51609er=0. 945

FILE

VA. 2202. 464/000

013/1764, 096,

PAR CENGE

1 104202

BN 027200

TORS OLID4IN SEP 70

• С П Е Т ОЗДОгОЕ ВЕР ЗО ВРАРА

GI TE

TOI IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

JINFO

SAEL FROGHAM

ЗБІРЕСТ

NN INTEL REAM MUSPIKE

(27103)

(024531)

(02.4037)

SNOT NEEDID

;::

id 11 (8.1)

LATE GEN (0U)

SEO (0)

ROR FOLKS

D•

→(016194)

J': EMMISE-IS REPORTED

MAAT ORLANDO

LOSCH GRANTED VISA BY NICARAQUAN AUTHORITiES. MM BAID BÖSCH

WAD ALSO OBTAINED VENERUELAN VISA IN MANAGUA, ME COULD NOT

CONT LAM THAT FRANG CASTRO MAD ALSO GOTTEN VENEIUILAN VISÀ

BUT ASSMED THIS TO BE THE GASE.

8, AS NOPED REP DO CASTRO CARRIES U.S, PASSOgRI AMSECiONS.

SO ACCORDING EMHISE-15, LOCAL CURANS GLOBE TO ROSEN HAVE

BABIDED NOT PO PUBLICLY DINOUNCE POLICE ACTIEN IN GEAUATiNE

SOSEN BECAUSE MHEY WANT AMERSCANS TO THINK NE'S STILL IN

DANTE DEMINGE, "

# +8681 8810289888) 808-9423086 da, iMponT.

3611-299282

82001-742365

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 136

FORN SCIEN

9-88 015G 2r0g

• Are did l Bagged ta 109 a

049 h99-d180609018 A010988 00 18

AE.PION UNIT

ACTION I

9 103696

B M0 1 1 19-188

26

DER NO #90

SECRET

ISSUED/SLOTTED:

RF .

FILE

116501.

N

See 2002 sEcon

OrsiTEy seAs, C1k, OSE

'ASEGE, OSGIC,

E1A364

PAGE 01

T0R10116502

SEP 76

SECRET B11630Z

CITE

SEP 76

STAFF

70 1

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR,

INFO

pachy.

THAN

OFFICE

STAR PRECEDENCE

IN 027103

MININTEL REAM MMSPIKE

REPSI: A.

(024037)

(024537)

2/00

iN FREI

I Can

• !?. ?)

90. 302

CaCT HEN (00)

PEES FLING

REPORTED THAT MOSCH AND CASTROL

ARE IN

MANAGUA•

to 33

8NID THEY LEFT PARA LO REP A FLIGHT AND HERE GIVEN PERMISSION

TO REMAIN IN MANAQUA IN TRANSIT STATUS. THUIR REQUEST BASED

ON TMIR CLAIM THAT THERE NO ROOM ON PLANE FOR THEN. IN

ACCORDANCE LOCAL PROCEDURES, NENOUS GIT TRANBIT PASSENQERS

MAY REMAIN IN MANAQUA POR VE TO PHIRTE DAYS, BUT HAVE TO:

LEAVE THEIR PASSPORTO MITH BAMIONATION. DOSS HAS BOSON'S

SEIZA RICAN PABSPORT AND BHONDE IP PO JOB, NAMA IN PAOSPORS

IB AB NUPORTED REP AO NUMENR 87460780 PAYED 10 PSe 2SE MALID

P0 & BEDP TO, DOMINIDAN EXLT SPAMP IN DATAD DO AUQUET 10%0.

"SO DAIO CASTRO I8 CARAVINO NO PASSPORT.

DO BOGO HILL ATTAMBY TO LOGARE DEBEN AND BABTRO, PINO BUY 1 SUP96

7241.742568

RECORD COt RE ?

201-299292

---

## Page 137

0 6 30136

& 80 GIPLA

F188

CABLE SEC DISSEM

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIY

AF: FILE.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN

#PRODUCTION BY OTHER TRAI

SUING OFFICE IS PROMINATE:

STAFF

..vR

9 193696

ELA36A

PAGE 02-02

TOR10116502 SEP 76

WHERE THEM. ARE STAYING IN MANAGUA, WHEN THEY PLAN TO LEAVE

AND THEIA DESTINATION. MILL REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

AS RECEIVED.

Jo FILE!

201-299298 AND

281-942905. ER. IMPDET.

IN 027103

Dinner soo been von

rea:

Я соО 912N 90р021 0000001 80000.0109 39080090065

Бок: 2000: 900100 249CR

AGN N0Yy604 73t3.

C6. 0 0 305030098 106

#0

4x. 70002

H/713*

• into

#*

N926K

25xe0. 06

85/49

390 409027905°

1 74 44.34

---

## Page 138

ABB

OMF D

SURE MAME CATOR

OUTGOING - MESSAGE

18-2

D: 0

0

si:

D

906701

DISSEM ON: 27

8/ors/1762, 0/oms2, 6/017

152

TO:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

DEPT OF STATE/ISY/I/PIB, SECRET SERVICE/ /INTELLIGENCE DIVISION. 4:

SECRET WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND .

METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS - NOT

RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS. Y

SUBJECT:

DOMINICAN. REPUBLIC - COSTA RICA, ORLANDO BO SCH

AVILA, CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST.

FIRCI-312/02647-76 14

So IN REFERENCE TO YOUR MESSAGE DATED IN JULY 19769

ENTITLED "NATIONAL LIDERATION FRONT OF CUBA", COPY SENT ADDRESSEES.

THES AGENCY HAS THE FOLLOWING CURRENT INFORMATION ON ORLANDO

DOS CH AVILAY

CLASSIPIER BY RECORDED REPORTING OPPICER. XEDS deBor

DATE

@M00

warte.

BITt

022.9-28

пло 60000

8.890

81 Rig? "

2281-279292

0, 10

i tall, 11 all

1 Hit. coct

[410 1*)

let t.

RECORD COPY

IBUNG OPPICH IS PROMOTIO

IMPDIT

CL BY 010951

---

## Page 139

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

ONF

Славил тон

SECRET

STAFF

COMP:

D

D

0

2

DO: FILE

CIA

906701

0

DIBSEN BY:

BASED ON:

PROJECT:

EMPYREX

OBJECTIVE: &

CABLE SEC: PLS MAKE CES COPIES AVAILABLE TO IPAN FOR 201-249292 &

22-9-28

727: 572126742447 ÷9

Chou rate Gooden tai

HaFarava

.120250a

Array

N10100

CHIG

Darte

30 AUG 7

AFGANGOI

CALA/CA

OPS/LSN

CANCE HAD

IN Or OTMEN THAN THE IDOUINE UPPIER IO PARIMITED

spresens

Troll

L

---

## Page 140

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SOMAL CHETED UNA CAL T

0

D

14-6

OMF 0

SE RET

STAFF

COME LA8 no: ms-2

WH/7/29

C: :

DIRECTOR

PSIT6A:70

SEC

-106794

DESSEM BYOT

TO: SIGNAL CENTER.Y

PLINEASE TRANSMIT

INFORMATION. EZ-IMPDET A

. то

orlands 50i0

#COPY ATTACHED

DATI

A CAN/ORM

NUPRODUCYION BY OTHER THAN THE INDUNO OPFICE IS PROMOIRO.

IMPDET

B6 0Y0L093Я

---

## Page 141

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

=27=

OMF 0

SECRET

STAFF

coms: ДА б.

TO: PEE DDO 2, A6C/2D0, NES

51T64, dors, istan

TO:

REF:

Doo/oo

UNINTEL KASTONE MHSPIKE Y

TIN 024057)

3.O REF BEING RELAYED

TO FBI. Y

•2. FILE: 203-299292: 22-9-20 CRIMPDETON

906798

DISSeM Br:)7

PER

TAND SUBSTANCE REF

#CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA DEPORTED TO COSTA RICA.

TEASEL PROCRAM

P/E0N

WADEA

TARINAGE FOR FUMIS

owen ht. 12.

i. 603:

he 57 (0)

D22-9-28

BATE:

0601

UNIO

AUG 7h

LA CAR/ORH

5497

Defeates

31 Онд 76

7101-1999292

ETELICOORDS

0P1/1TA

McAl

RECORD COPY.

CALA/CAR

IMPORT

C BY 0187

3

---

## Page 142

CAUTIC.N - THIS FORM REQUIRES

SECURE STORAGE

ORIGIBAION'S RiDUEST FOR MOS

PROCESS-BEG

BODENING REQUESTED

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, Latin America Division

COS,

coS,

coS,

Chief of Station,

BOSCH

ORad Depart the Dominican RepubLis

to Enter

Devart the

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

APERTURE CARD REQUESTED

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVER •

REFS:

A.

B

C.

D.

1.

Forwarded herewith is a Xerox copy of the Costa Rican.,

passport used by Orlando BOSCH to enter the Dominican Republic

in the name cf Carlos Luis PANIAGUA Mendez.

The passport was

obtained and Xeroxed by. EMCLIPPER-] who provided a copy to the

Station.

EMWISE-15 had previously reported that BOSCH entered the

Dominican Republic with a false Costa Rican passport in the name of

Pedro Antonio PENA.

While BOSCH may be carrying a second. Costa

Roman case lie with the PANACUA pASSPOrt.

it appears that he entered the

Dominican Republic with

The PANIAGUA

passport forwarded herewith shows the following:

The Department of Migration of Costa Rica issued &

visa

on 24

March 1976 for travel to "C.A., Republica

Dominicana' (p.13)•

(p. li) and entered Nicarague (p. 95.

BOSCH departed Costa Rica at Pena Blancas on 26 March

The Dominican Consulate in Managua lasued a one-erip

vise for the Dominican repubite on 30 March

(p.14)•

Attachment!

Am stated, h/w

MEAN PRELATE"

Distribution:

C/ LADE

w/att

cos,

COS

w/att

I w/att

Cuse Ми (3. 2)

W: Mi, 67

COS,

fae

w/att

RECONO CODY

OYMBOL AND

HDCA •31050

RV, 0

i told

4080

Wow:

80 August 1076

Wal AL HUH

201-200202

San đ6 5

---

## Page 143

CALT.ON. THIS FORM REQUIRES

SECURE STORAGE

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASMECATOS

SECRET

HDCA- 11056

• It appears that BOSCH entered Guatenala City by

air on 30 March and departed 31 Märch (p. 15).

BOSCH arrived in Santo Domingo at Las Americas

airport on 31 March (p. 15).

BOSCH told ENCLIPPER-I that the real PANIAGUA had undertaken

nost of the travel shown in the passport

buz EMCLIPPER-I did not

stablish the date the passport was acquired by BOSCH or how.

As reported Ref A, BOSCH was deported to Costa Rica via

Managua on 29 August on Iberia Flight. 979. • EMWISE-15 reported that

the PANIAGUA passport was used to deport BOSCH.

CONTINUED

---

## Page 144

G

PERSONNA POTATO.

DOVANCE CORN ISSUEBSIONRO L

ACTION. UHIT

LA&

RE

FILE

ACTION &

NE 8

OSt

T 106729

61 A112

31=

SECRET.

• da 1310

DOO 2 AGCADO PITEY,

18 Futu

START PRECEMENGE

P-GE 01

TOR 3313023 AUG 76

IN 024037

#BER ET 301245E AUG TO STAFF

CITE

TO!

IMMEDIATE L

0, 08

PU V

403E M3

DIRECTOR INFO

MNINTEL REAM MMSPIKE

• REFS!

A .

8

• NOT SENT

• NOT SENT

CIN 0226011

(IN 016194)

EMWISE-15 ADVISED

ŸMAT

ORLANDO BUSCH HAD BEEN DEPORTED ON IBERIA FLIGHT O: AT CODE HOURS.

MITH DESTINATION SAN JOSE VIA M-NAGUA. DECISION TO PUT BOSEN ON

"THIS FLIGHT WAS MADE ON VERY SHAT NOTICE. BOSCH TRAVELLED ON

SAME COSTA RICAN PASSPORT WITH ¡MICH ME ENTERED DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC IN NAME OF CARLOS LUIS DANIA QUA MENDER.

CUMWISE-LS HAD PREVIOUSLY REPOR'ED THAT BOSEN MAD UNTERED WITH

COSTA RICAN PASSPORT IN NAME OF PEDRO ANTONIO PINA. THIS

A INPO WAS SU BARORES

OM. 27 AVOUST

009 INED COPY OF PANTAQUA PABOPORT

FROM IMELIPPER•I

PMEY AMARE OF DOBEH TRAVEL HITE COBTA ALONN PASSPOTO IN NAME SO GULATE

10'

RECORD COPY

201 - 299292

---

## Page 145

voral a ratin

SECRET

ISONMAT ROTE.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUEDIBLOTTED

ACTION UPT

RE " FILE ..

STAFF

VR .

F

T 166729

PAGE 02-02

TOR83013022 AUG 76

IN 02803T

PANJAGUA•

A FILE: 2E1-299292. ER IMPDET

132A611.1

'i".:.

-ancharde

*3 =

resear.

22AL 110011

"i!:

d!!

36004051300

is cutor coo

73:49

NO STE LU

---

## Page 146

come 951s incond to B0 22

*STA: coars 25-3.10

_ SECRET

OMATED

WED SOTTES

STAFF

FLAT

LSAliO

T 103140

E1 A021

PAGE 01

TOR 2720502 AUG 78

SECRET RUZUSOR AUG TO SPAFF

CITE

T0 !

DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL REAM MASPIKE

REVSI A. DIRECTOR 905000

Fin 83294?

ci

7

Orlands Bossy

20]

16120161941

PER PARA 2 REF BA ENCLIPPER-S MAS.

PROVIDED

FULL RUN-DOWN ON TRAVEL OF FRANK E A SIR OPAL 1201-7423658

PROM FEBRUARY 1995 THROUGH JULY 1076 AS FOLLOWS!

S. PEBRUARY 1073

J APRIL 1075

15. JUNE 1095

30. JUNE 1975

J0 JULY 1079

•17 AQUAT 1073

60 SEPTIMOOR 1079

• OCTOR 1079

& NOVEMBUR 6079

LO FROAVARY 1070

#ta

---

## Page 147

PINOS WAY NOTARD-

RE. FILE

ACTS •

1 103148

E1 A021

iP:A

20 FEBRUARY 1076

12 APRIL 1976

23 APRIL 1070

20 MAY 1076

JA JUNE 10%6

ENTRIES

• FEBRUARY 1075

10. APRIL 1973

28

JUNE 19%3

13

JULY SOYS

@ AUOUST 1073

• SEPTEMBER 8979

30

SEPTEMBER 3072

OGTOBER 4075

NOVEMDER 1973

FOURUARY 8076

POORUARY 1074

1€ APRIL 1070

* • MAY 4076

O8 MAY 1070

L

2a 52029

БЕСПЕТ

Mos 0702, 90

WINTEN

STATE

PAGE 82

90R18920501

3 AUO ?e

IN 022987

1553

Tu :2

0€

---

## Page 148

14-00000

i--=

SECRET

HO COSTI

Т 101840

11A028

• • тро

PAGE

- IORS920988 ANO YO

022019

• JULY 1070.

8* ACCORDING EMPYREN, CASTRO DEPARTED

S AVOUST AND

RETURNED DY ANOUSTO

$ REQUEST

_DATES OF CASTRO TRAVEL MITH

INDUN ON SUSPECTED CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST ACYS.

A. NO OBJECTION PASS PARAS ONE AND THO TRAVEL DATE TO LNERGO

D, 1861

801-742369;

EZ. IMPDET.

---

## Page 149

• 099 1

38.2..

ĐAĐỘ MỆN A

to 1 as a me

LA8.

1 102574

2. 1610

OPS/ITHY, NED, PSlEGZ, 554,

E8809.4;

PAGE

1

TORI271605E AUG 76

T 2995481 AVG T0 STATE

Bủ 022608

CITE

10 1

PRIOR

DIRECTOR INFO

WNINTEl

REAM MHSPIKE

(016194)

MEMORANDUM OF ORLANDO BOSCH CITED PARA S REF WAS NOT

QIVEN TO CHIEF OF POLICE, GENERAL NIVAR, UNTIL 235 AUGUST

MHEN ME RESUMED MIS POST FOLLOWING EMERGENCY APPENDECTOMY.

NIVAR IMMEDIATELY DAVE

INSTRUCTIONS TO "LOCATE

DOSEN AND THROW HIM OUT."

& MEMORANDUM! WHICH SHOWN TO

ON

a6 ALCUST, STATES THAT BOSCH HAD ENTERED COUNTRY MITH COSTA

RICAN PASSPORT IN NAME PEDRO ANTONIO RENA.

CONFIRMED THAT BOSCH IS CARRYINQ ANOTHER COSTA RICAN PASSPORY

IN NAME, CARLOS LUIS PA

N

PAO U A MENDER. AB REPORTED

PARA ! NOPO

SAID ME HAS NOT YUP LOCATED BOSCH. ME WAB

•ADKIO 90 INPORM

AS MUCH LUAD TIME AS POS8IBLE

WHEN DODOM DUINO DUPORTED, AIRLINU FLIONT NUMOOR AND NAMO

RECORD COPY

201-299292

---

## Page 150

• dь8. "d.

-95 - 88

Да о 8 Дов

SE:

R E

808.

STAFF

#*#

" 868876

PAGE 02-82

TORIZ71GBSZ AUG 70

IN 822688

AND PASSPORT BEING USED. ALTHOUGH

_WAS PROMISED DO

HIS, SLIP UP IS POSSIBLE IN ORDER KEEP TABS ON BOSCH'S FUPURE

AMEREABOUTS, SUGGEST

_TMAT BOSCH MAY BE

DEPORTED IMMINENTLY• WILE PROBABLY TRAVEL. AT LEAST DURING FIAST

LEO OF TRIP• WITH COSTA RICAN PASSPORT IN NAME PEDRO ANTONIO

•EM.A OR CARLOS LUIS PANTAG U A MENDER.

QUES$ 8S PHAT DOMINICAN'S WILL INSIST HE LEAVE WITH PENA

ні :

IDENTIFICATION, SINCE THIS IS MOM HE ENTERED COUNTRY. NO

OBJECTION PASS ABOVE INFO TO LNERGO

AS

"APPROPRIATE,

with:"

VILE: 201-299292. ER IMPDET

2A. E.

---

## Page 151

14-00000

4475.0

ABBACBMIBR (O 18-469937

3H//1-106

7 AmA: 1078

INERCO, Mian'd

Fate,

chrom sung

GRETADT

BUSCHE

ybod

OrImado BOSCH Av 11a

Accordios to

tha Government » the Dominiore lipublie has decided to

deport Orlando BOSCH Avila no sood an ne0ur16y 018101.10

can locate kin. BOSCH may be deported

andog a Coate Rican

pamport la the amme of Pedro Antonio PENA or Carlon Lala

PANIAGUA Mender. Ne suspoot that the Lominioan Governeant

W111 Instat thst BUSCH depart from the loninican Rapabllo

In tho name of PENA since this in how ho ontered the country.

There 1s to date no evidence

to what country BOSCH 11l

bo deported.

---

## Page 152

OUTGOING - MESSAGE

87-J

GEET

STAFF

com: LA5) 0:

Do in en

8700388

DIRECTOR

¡PlaN EURy Fy, dAY

FRY OPSIITEY

• 100e

приров они

405008

our Sal

0181

UNINTEL REAM MMPROSE TRACE V

DIRECTOR &96LSY

8I594

IN DIATHI NOT SENT OR NEEDED

ALL ADDEES

REF 8 ADVISED THAT FRANK C A ST R.O PAZI LIVING IN

SANTO DOMINGO• IS KNOWN TO BE ORLANDO B OS & H'S CONTACT MAN AND

MESSENGER CARRIER TO CUDAN RIGHU TEST GROUPS THROUGHOUT LATIN

AMERICA• IT REQUESTED CONPIRMATION OF INFO ON FRANK DO CASTRO

PERER CITED PARA J CRIP A. THIS IS TO CLARIFY. THAT THE FRANK

CASTRO INVOLVED MITH FLNE IN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES IS 'IN FACT EULALIO.

FRANCISCO C A STR O PAZI ARA FRANK CASTRO. OF REP BS AND HOT. TRE

PRANK pO 6 AS T.R O PEREZ CITED IN PARA PARA C REF:A.

MOST OF FOLLOWINGL

INFO, FYI ONLY IN

CONNECTION REF DO AND NOT TO BE DISCUSSED OR OTHERWISE DISCLOSED

OUTSIDE HERALD WITHOUT PRIOR HAS APPROVAL. V.

DATE A

FAPROOUOTION DY OTHBA THAN THE IGNUING OFFICE IS PROMETEO

IMPOST

Ch.

ĐY: 025211

---

## Page 153

14-00000

•OUTGOING MESSAGE

onf

SECRET

STAFF

DIRECTOR

.805008

. OSIN BY:

ОПРО: FILI

mo anna

PAm.

.3. : THE CASTRO CITED PARA 2 REF 8 IS EULALIO FRANCISCO!

CASTRO PAZ 8203-7423657, BORN 4 JUNE 4Z. AT MARIANAO, CUBAR AKA

PAPO, E. CASTRO, PO ASTRO, AND FRANK CASTRO: PHOTO AVAILABLE.: •

REPORTEDLY LEFT CUBA POR U.S, CLANDESTINELY BY BOAT, 13 DEE 6Z ISIC =

BELIEVED BE 6LZ. RESIDED PHILADELPHIA JAN TO OCT 6Z: NEW YORK OCT TO

NOV 624 SERVED U•S. ARMY S NOV 6Z THRU A DEC 63 AS LIGHT WEAPONS

INFANTRYMAN. REPORTEDLY WORKED FOR MANUEL A R TIME IN APR 65

RECRUITING PEOPLE IN MIAMI TO FIGHT COMMUNISH IN CENTRAL AMEXICA. AS

• OF MAR 74 WAS EMPLOYED AS SALESMAN WITH FABRIC BAZAAR, ING. • MIAMI..

FLA• MOVED TO DOM REP. EARLY 75. AS OF MAR 75 WAS ESTABLISHING

INTERIOR DECORATOR FIRM CASTEVILLE C. POR A • IN SANTO DOMINGO.

REPORTEDLY WAS TRYING SET UP EXPORT-IMPORT BUSINESS IN DOM HEP AMPR.

7S.' DURING DE MARRIED ANA MARGARIETi DE UIND T, DAUGHTER OF

RETIRED REAR ADMIRAL CESAR DE WINDT LAVANDIER OF DOMINICAN NAVY:

CASTRO REPORTEDLY TOLD FBI SOURCE OCT 7S THAT HEAD OF SANTO FOMINGE

POLICE MAD IT IN FOR HIM AND MOULD BE REPLACED BY PRIEND SE CASTROIS

PATHER-IN-LAM•..

CASTRO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY BETWEEN DON REP AND MIAMI. WAS

Quie

DATA

MAN MY AYMON

MITH

---

## Page 154

14-00000

OUTGOINT MESSAGE

onF

SECRET

STAFF

ConY:

DIRECTOR

905008

FILE

D

DISSEN IY?

PER

0 -4

DEPORTED FROM DOM REP 4 OCT 75 MITH HUMBERTO LOPEZ

JR., '1

FRENTE DE LIBERACION. NACIONAL DE CUBA

FINC, LEADER AND FEDERAL

FUGITIVE ARRESTED BY FBI UPON ARRIVAL FLA... UPON, ARRIVAL MIAMI Y OCT...

7S CASTRO'S U.S. PASSPORT BORE CACHETS SHOWING DEPARTURE VENEZUELA

23 SEPT 253 ENTRY "ELDORADO-BOGOTA" COLOMBIA 27 SEPT 75. CASTRO

CLAINED HE AND OTHERS PLACED BOMBS AT RUSSIAN EMBASSY AND IN

THEATRE IN BOGOTA• CASTRO IS LICENSED PILOT • PROFICIENT PARACHUTIST

AND SKYDIVER. WAS/IS LEADER OF "GOLDEN FALCONS" SKYDIVING CLUB OF

CUBAN EXILES OPERATING OUT OF HOMESTEAD, FLA. HE BECAME U-S: CITIZEN

§ OCT 73. HAS RECORDS CONTAIN NO INDICATION ME EVER EMPLOYED BY

'BEHERALD. V

FILE!

203-742365% 201-309324 EZ. IMPDET-N

LA/COGS COMMENTI

REQUESTED CLARIFICATION OF INTO ON

PRANK CASTRO CITED IN DIRECTOR 696657.

CHARON

nat

LA/COG/CaeS

1473

Stone DET

PAOHIOIG

Cope

suchen.

PERLA COG

IMPOET

nO 18T1

---

## Page 155

14-00000

the for f

THE WASHINGTON PIST Marias dearse 23 1094 C23

Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

Plot to Assassinate Kissinger

A reported plot to assassinate Secre.

in Miaml's Little Havana Fle latér re•

Kissinger was safely out of the can-

tary of State Henry A. Kissinger In

defected to Cuba where he gave a fas

try.

Costa Rica ata months ago was blocked

cinating interview.

Boach later insisted: "My only crime

„bg U.S. and Costa Rican authorities

"I have known privately since 1972,"

was entering the cuntry with a false

four days before it was to have been

• he said about "the plan to ascassinate

passpore."

Certainly, It

wat

never

erried out.

the U.S. Secretary. of State."

He said.

proged. In court that he hoped

to

We have pleced together the story

the plot hard taken "certain form" by

knock off Kislager. He is now at large

from secret testimony before the Sen-

1978 and lad been "actualized"

by

somewhere in Latin America.

ate Internal Security Subcommittee

and from interviews with Cuban eules

1874

Johnson's Junkets - Democratic

In a reference to our 1974 columna,

presidential nominee Jimmy Carter

and US. mtelligence sources.

he added: "This fact, which, I repeat,

must have Don Janson mind when he

A Cuban terrortat named Orlando

wouch Avila was reported to be gun.

I've known privately, has been corro

charges that the

Republicans find

borated by the U.S, journaltst Jack An-

ming for Kiringer. The attempt on Kis

derson."

cushy Johs in the burenucracy for de

feated GOP legislatore

• angers lie was empected,

arending

Rivero named Bosch as one of the 18

to reports, during his visit to Coute

anti-Castro leaders who had conspired

Johnson, a torre; lown congress

Bica in February.

"to

man,

kill American and other leader:

was appolated by Preoident

Nixon to head the Veterans Adminis

shortly betoro Kisinger's arrival..

promoting a Cuban-American detente.

a nipped into comt Hich on a 1a.

Booch had been convicted in 1080 of

tration. But he was forced out of office

lat the FBI and the Secr

when he proved to be a lackiustor

sheiling • Polish freighter

with a ba

no had boom alerted. Thay traced

loader. So he was shuffled over to the

coola while it was moored in Mlami

Commorce Department, where he has

a movement and notified Costa

le jumped federal paroie and tied to

beeD

authoritien Bouch was arrested

Veneruela la 1974.

enaconced an arjuty

assistant

put in ali four daya beisre Kinnin-

Forida's Dade County Public Safety

socretary for domestic and interan-

Ronmi bualmen.

Department, becaure of the duge Cu.

Do to ta kidnger aparently

ban population in Mama, hes excellent

Johnson han unod both porte to trau.

of bis overtures to Leprove

with Cuban Premier Fidel

đien

throughout Lalin

Americh.

• mostly to lows, where ho has kept

i lots Thin reportedly upee

pert, Ll Thomas Lynch. Picked

the countys terroret en

his political fence mendod in the bopo

pert,

of running for office again.

lip

acro terrorts band, Cuban

anne viectrtiying now..

A iño Comerce Dopariment sionia,

whatsia Honch icaded.

He

lod 120:

Senate subcommitte

ho ham spent at loan 57,000 on travel,

of the story la 1914

about it in secret buttmony.

"We pa

60,204 In the last year. Ho always goes

eaten to hans.

calved information from confidential

fles: chen, daapite the fact inad govern-

• ond

Nix

19;

That enticer da

wurces,

" to testified" that there wan

mont regulationa require coach travel

going to ba atte

mpt on the life of Bue

for fedoral omployce. The enterpril.

"amamination

wiary of Blate Henry Kisninger.., We

ind Johnson, however has a roady an®

sood the informat

don on lo the tal

ouse for bin lunury accommodeston.

30

cacported

meisd that

Klantner

hind

touch with Cartro.

aint that Kusingor

Wa0 #•

came hates from carine Rivera

nois or too man elife to tho

Mistre asder

and Chay hod ane roceed the infor.

"I'm a hait of a ble man." he toid our

maiion,

and we notifled the Perrat

reporter Marlara Tenot.

"I'm 6-9001

Horvie»,

sa thay

have the protectiv

and weigh 170 pounds." Johnson mise

duty for "ne Secretary of Btate."

maid him had back forced him: to fly in

The pre wan linked to Klingoro

tho forward compartment. Ucapite hit

woday tay i Cona Nina, and Hoses

many oncurions to his home mate, ho

an piches ip and querined. Pie we

donod havina any piaos for a come

Duel in polities.

---

## Page 156

14-00000

Miami falled Base

Of Cuban Terrorists

mitecs that he and Chicago gangstar

Militant

pro

and

antl-Castro

Sam Giancana were hired by the CLA

• Cuban groups in the Miami aren Are

to recruit cubans to kill Castro.

engaged In terrorist activities both in

Glancana

and outalde the

United States,

wan killed by unknown

aC.

cording so closed door testimony be

persons last year just before he was

to

¡fore a Senate subcommittee released

tently before the Washlngton

panel.

verterday.

The testimony came last May be

tare

Judiciary subcommittee on

T WAS LEARNED yesterda

Internal security chaired by Sen.

awyer for Rosolll told the FAl In

James O. Eastland. D-Miss. It said

1967 that the underworld figure, re

that as

many as 50 different Cuban

cruited by the ClA to kill Castro, Be

of

varlous

shadings

lieved agonts of the Cuban leader

have

operating in Miamt at any one

were involved In slaying President

Kennedy,

many of them engaged in vio

lota involving local

aclions and

activi

Lies

in

Mexico.

Central and

an Interview wish Edward P.

Cout America and Cuba Itsell.

a 100mas Lyong, who han been

cluded in lost June'a Senate Intell

men the Dade

ounty, Fla., Public

• Safety

Department

for more

than

Mino years, and Raul J. Diar of the

copertment'e organized

crime, ter

Periat and security unil, fold of el-

lnterviewed.,

to

track down

terrorist

nata in to greater Miamlares,

the

sumcary,

that

RoBolll

PONS SAID 120ST Cubans In the

another client were called on to par-

bat some advidual use Dade

#ome Individuals "use Dade

tro. He sald

«# a base for International

Castro employed "toams

against

• Cuba,

allied

govern

Cuban. shipping,

Teoldent Kenned *

munint, purportad Communia

individuate who take a stand

thair borrorialle-type

have boon four homlelden

he cane have on , r or dia:

Egyptian Plane

introng Indicetore en each that

Ivations were political in ng..

orlate by desten.

hijacked, Other

some Castro groupe have

®*i®

organisationd:

and

were pione to ason oinato Laun

Arabs Blamed

diplomem

and foreign

amid bla unit poceived infor

170

gunmen

trom

confidontial source

Palestiniang and banend, Inforch

your that there would to an

the life of Boorantry

a Matto Conte

A, Blasinger during hio

DouL

no antd,

widelye

alive ondo, oriance dosen,

140"

legally

entering

ore were no Ineidonte

on me CiA'o own

Cuban oxilea in Ploride

1NI@Fº to N

I Ceatro,

wao found

ohain-weighted, So-gel.

1 #

bay

01/00 1090 v0a8

a Lanato Intollinonce Com

hoP

Gyplan mirline

na plane,

Boeing 127

landed in Lunor, and ine

hijechere

neatened to blow 10 un

unlese fuei was provided,

Beaurly

men aurrounded lei

plane, the spokenmen said

g reporad there wore va passer

gore and

0f0w

membora

M09n

Bume co the passengere wore infeign

murite on choir woy to buror to no

no ancient temploa of Karnai an

the Valley of the Kingo, due thelr 00e

Jonalues were not av

lable.

"THE WASHINGTON STAR"

23 AUGUST 1,976

---

## Page 157

T. PINFO 3098

¡AHIE SEE DISSIM BY

a5.

NEA

Р1E9099999!8

F

FILE

VR

Ches Net,

S54

166233

SECRET

AG/08n 9PS/064

C14 eStera 0590

PAGE 01

TOR: 202134Z AUG 76

SE C

R E T 20Z108Z AUG 76 STAFF

CITE

STAFF

IN 016104

ЗР

DIRECTOR INF

MNINTEL REAM MUSPIKE

ПЕР!

A. DIRECTOR 896637

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEG 171976

MICHOrinso

Do DIRECTOR 099338

L. EMCLIPPER S MAS ADVISED

THAT ORLANDO BO SELL

CALLED ON HIM|

JP REQUEST THAT DOMINCAN

DO VEANMENT ISSUE VISAS TO MIS MOTHER AND SISTER TO VISIT MIM

IN DANTO DOMINGO, (VISAS HERE SUESEGHENTLY ISSUED BY CONSULATE

IN MARMED ON. PHIS OCCABION EMCLIDPEROS ASKED BOSCH IF ME HAD

INTERED DOMINICAN AGPUBLIE WIPH PALSE DOMINICAN FASSFEAT. DENYING

THIN, DOSCH GRANDISHHO COSTA RICAN PASSPORT WITH EMCLIPPER S

AUKUD TO DEE. PASSPORT IS IN NAME OF CARLOS LUIS DANIA RUA

MENDED AND PHOTO 1O D00D LIKENUBS OF BOSCH, BOSCH SAID NE NAT

MI! AYO OPERATION FOR CATARACTE AND MOULO DU LEAVINO

DOMINICAN REFUGLIC SHORTLY.

IMPYRUX•O IN MAIMS SPATEINO PHAP PRANK C A A PRO. PAlO.

114010742365°

RECORD COPY

TERN PROPEAN

RESINICE

MISS. 6634

• HI NOM (08)

173 /s

201299190

---

## Page 158

14-00000

1.71 MFO. 8098

CABIF ETC DISSE A 69%.

- TOTAL COPIES

SECRE!

IS SLING

STAFF

ADVANCE rORY

164009099190

ARTISA LIMIT

HE . FIlE..

VR

- amo

466233

E1 A163

PAGE 02

TORU202134Z AUG 76

IN

016194

WHO IS MARRIED TO DAUGHTER OF RETIRED DOMINICAN ADMIRAL AND

LIVING IN SANTO DOMINGO. (SEE PARA 1C REF AD IS KNOWN TO BE

BOSCH'S CONTACT MAN AND MESSENGER CARRIER TO CUBAN RIGHTEST.

GROUPS THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA.

BELIEVES THIS MAY

MELL BE TRUE. CASTRO, WHO CARRIES AMERICAN PASSPORT B-289791%.

DEPARTED AND RETURNED SANTO DOMINGO THREE TIMES DURING MAY AND

JUNE ALONE. EMPYREX REPORTS HIS MOST RECENT RETURN ON 15 AUGUST.

EMCLIPPER"1 WILL ATTEMPT DETAIL ALL OF FRANK CASTRO!S TRAVEL

DURING PAST SEVERAL MONTHS, HE IS ALSO THINKING OF LIFTING

GASTRO'S FASSPORT NEXT TIME ME ENTERS SANTO DOMINGO AIRPORT.

IN APPORT PIN DOWN TRAVEL DESTINATIONS, HE NOTE THAT REF AL

PARA S © LIOTO CASTRO'S MATRONTMIC AS PERED RATHER THAN

BONAECTLY AB MAB, ALDO, EMPYREX REPORTS THAT U.B, PASSPORT

10010070191 WHSCH NO USING AT LAST YOR TRAVEL BETWEEN

*DOMINCAN AROUDLIC AND PUBATO RICO, LISTO HID DIRTH DATE AS

• JUNE 104A MATHOR: THAN A DUPIENGER 1019 AN RAPORTED ROP A

PARA S DO PLEADE CONFIRM 201 NUMOGA FOR DANTRE IN AUF A 10

AO OURATO,

ON SO AVOURT INWISH-SS SHOWED TO AMCANNOTOS COPY OF

PUMO ME HAD HITTON TO CHIN OP POLE LOSHO THA. GBON ME HAOW

15.008

L

---

## Page 159

"j-1

FORM 30208

8-P1 MSG. 2198

AND TRe 17100099897

OSUN UNIT NOTIFO

14 N

MOVANI DI

100.2180158888880

FiF. FILE.

TOTAL COPE

SECRET

... AT.

- RUN DI

OTHER THAI

STAFF

VR

ACTION "

т 106233

E8A163

PAGE 03-83

TOR: 202134Z AUG 76

OUP OF COUNTRY, MEMO STATES THAT INFO HAS BEEN RECEIVED BY

POLICE FROM RELIABLE SOURCES THAT DURING HIS STAY IN DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC BOSCH HAS MET WITH CUBAN EXILE LEADERS FROM PUERTO

RICO A MIAMI NEW YORKA CARACAS, MEXICO CITY AND "POSSIBLY

PANAMA*®

INDEX BOSCH, CASTRO, FILE: 2010299202 201-990124

IN 016194

10 28%

---

