# 104-10162-10124

## Page 1

104-0162-10124

066-63-12679

3072:.36

Me. do Walior Yeagley

Departiu of Juedee

Washingion 25. D. C

Dear Mr. TeRçosy.

In reply to your letter of 25 Aprll 1763, cale Agency

Ana lhe fallowlag Informalios on Sacliago ALVAREZ Rodrigues:

He full sume la Sanilago JuAn AMaCiS ALVAREZ

Rodrigues, and be mas bors la Marnasas, Casa, os 25

July 1907, Helo a medical doclos by profession, and

was formerly Governor of Malansa Proviace,

C-agressnas and Sanator under formos Passisil

Tulgencio Balista.

'HI. ALVAREZ has a rather longthy biofory of

porticipallos la anti-Castro sclivilies which datee

back 8o 1959 whan ho was lovolrod milh lso tralaias

Al appronimately 800 Cubra erles on ane al the leye

olf the Mandean comul

In early 1951. MI. ALVAREZ enliared with che

comerrevolutlonary forces waici were belaz formed

la sanal, Tlorida: homerer, dua primarily so bis ago.

he was nos sued dariag the bay of Pigo lavasion allenpe

SE. ALVAREZ' DOAl, DE ALISAN, Was reportediy

med on many occasiona by entle groupa lor transparting

arme, ann unidon and supplies to anti-Calro rebels

La Caba, La Nove=bor 1762 Esla Agency providad

gasolloo and sone arma lo a arall group ol Caban

adles huaded by Enrique CASADO whe, will lhe ser

208-2535771

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

**

of the ALISHAN, exileraled a Cuban G-l Liestenant

Be he family ison Cuba, Earique CASADO has

been setive in maritime operatiors for mouay yeara..

Arst against Ballets and later againet Citiro, Thie

Jan been the entent of our interest or use of the

ALISAN®

Amide frem the sepport to the ALISAl on one occasion

thís Agency has had no coasectica with Mr. ALVAREZ nor has

18 ever unployed him. We have noted that the Federal Bureau

ol breedgation has additional information on Me. ALVAREZ.

Sincerely.

. ce

arrence R. H unton

General Counsel

Distribation:

Orie & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/SAS

1- DDP/SAS/ Intel/Ope

2 - OGC

Subjocs

Chrano

DDP/SAS/ Intel/Ops Spt:

Rewritten: OGC/LRH:mis (30 April 1963)

el (29 April 1963) --

---

