# 104-10229-10042

## Page 1

104-10229-10042

CLASSIREO MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

15 meget

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM'I

MAVE

ACTIONI

BELL 10/SHOVN TO

INPO , DD?, COP, ADDP/A, WH 5, S/C 2

DEC 16

1834261

_BELL, 1515 16 DEC

ROUTINE

IN 39390

Palets

""""

DIR CITE LAVE 0039

JUZIP XUCAGE

Fatus:

1. POLLOLINE GASIC PROP PLAN MIO EUGUET MOANSUS DEERED

BY PASSAVOY AND WAVE FROM PEOPOSALS OF AMBUD-1 AND AMCORE -2

AND ACCEPTED BY AMBUD-1:

A• CONTINUATION OF AMSUD SENI-LONTHLY GUIDANCE BULLETIN

•(LA LUCHA) SENT TO ALL LA COUNTRIES NOT EXCEED SID, CORO

NORTHLY.

B. lOJA PARA CUBA LEAFLET AILING OP INTO TARGET COUNTRY.

LEAFLETS, AFTER PRIOR APPROAVAL SAVE, TO BE NAILED IN VARIED

SIZE AND TYPE ENVELOPES. , ONE ICE FOSSIBLY THOS. ISSUES PONTHLY

$4,500.

C. GRAPHIC SERVICE: MAILING SE CARTONS AND PHOTOS

TWICE, WEEKLY TO 22 LA NEWSPAPERS SSDE BONTHLY.

D. FEES TO SPECIAL WRITERS NO CARTOONISIS FOR PARA AS..

S AND C ABOVE NOT EXCEED SIS2O HONTHLY

E. TWO SPOT TEN MINUTE RASIS BAOADCASTS WEEKLY FROM

VAVE AREA STATIONS REACHING TARGET COUNTRY SAB2 LONTHLY.

F. FUND FOR UNFORESSEN EXPENSES ADDITIONAL HOJAS PARA

CUBA AND INDIVIDUAL PROP PECUECES SUSKITTED FOP PRIOR APPROVAL

SY HAVE NOT TO EXCEED S3, 303 REST: TOTAL ALL ABOVE MONTHLY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Cops Na

---

## Page 2

335

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE WAVE "159

SECRET I

IN

3';

PAGE

005: 222, 220.

20 EXACT ACCOUNTINOS KILL BE REQUIRED FOR ABOVE EXPENDITURES.

FUNDING AND ACCOUNTINGS WILL BE HANDLED THROUGH AMTIKI I...

3. REGUEST PRIORITY NOS APPROVAL ABOVE PROP BUDGET AND

AUTHORIZATION EXPENDITURE S10,20% FOR SALANCE DECEMBER..

END OF MESSAGE

SERIAT

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

70..9

---

