# 104-10102-10316

## Page 1

104-10102-10316

17814

•TRYBAT

• NE/3/1017

1 Intersogation Roscaran DiVIsion

8 Slovamber 1963

KRD1 69685

BARROUND THPCRBATION

09.10

Noot of this report 10 a married, male oltisen of Mexion eitizon-

hip who una born dO Jebruary 1909 in Torreon,) Coahila, Mexioo. 1

He 1n

ourruntly baing utilised by TUBARI an a penetration of the Maxican Communist

Party (PHS), Bubject has not been previoualy IC LITtled.

FURFOSE OF THE TARRROCATION

The request to ICLUTUR subject was initiated by the WE DIVIBIOn

and coordinated in the field by Inte B. MARSCHATTY, Bubjost'a cade officer.

ICTIVITER vas conducted to determine 11 Bubject has disclosed his HUMARK

relationahis to unauthorized persons, 18 he has os t0 now vorking fer and/

or reporting to any other intelligence erganization, and 1f he ban withheld

any of hiD PCHl history IrOn UP. LALUTIKR vas conducted 1n Bpaniah on 17

October 1963 at a safesite in Torreon, Mexico.

Dubject's response to LOnINtR vas prompt and apparently cooperative.

During pre-tent discussion no Infomation was developed which in not already

contained 1n current operational files or which is not known to Subject's

. Results of ICITR armination Indicate that Subject has

not discloned his rolationahip with this. to any unauthorised persons, that

be has never vorked for another Intelligence service, and that he 1e not

falsitying any. of the operational Information wich he 10 ruporting to hit

sase officer. In reference to hia PCH background, there van an indieatlor

that Bubject has not been campletely truthful in discussing the full extent

of his past POl activities. It le the undereigned'& gpinion that this area

of deception concerns a period of tine prior to 19551

PITATES

Rather than engage Subject in an extonded interrogation at this time

In order to rosolve his pre-1955 PCI activilita, 1t 18 recommended that the

officer attempt to resolue the above area of deception through direct contact

BLURET,

RYBAT

---

## Page 2

CHET, RYBAT

TRIA 65625

8 Noventer 1963

редо &

with the agent. If after thie has been acomplished, there 10 still no

vidaee tant subject bas attanpted lo clarity his past Fed aotivitien,

then, it in reccrmended that Bubfoot be LENUTikRed a second time. During

& second ICILUTTAR, spec1f1c attention should be given to the above noted

ares of deception.

DavId Q. PERSELYS

Labution:

03

i o3

Orig

(Bauman,) Hannah (Gaynor

1

Hannah

- WH/3/MEX

1 - CI/QA

" Field Copy

1 .

Files

**1

!

SECRET RYBAT

z/po

---

