# 104-10072-10111

## Page 1

104-10072-10111

DEUKLA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.E 20505

MAY 1968

TO

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROS

: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT:

MUSCROVE, Joe Bailey

1.

The following paragraphs summarize informa

tion relayed telephonically to the Bureau, and are

forwarded to you for confirmation and for your files.

Addis Ababa reparted that voctor klaus steer, a

West German citizen and Director of the African

Scientific Department, E. Merck Aktiengesellschaft,

Karmstady, Germany, visited the American Embassy,

at the request of the local German Ambassador, and

reported that he had seen a man in Lagos, Nigeria

on 23 April 1968 who strongly resembled newspaper

photographs of Eric stavro Galt, who is currently

wanted in connection with the assassination of

Dr. Martin Luther King. Dr. Steer said that he saw

the Subject at the desk of the Bristol Hotel on the

afternoon of 23 April when both were checking out

0, 5 48

of the hotel. Dr. Steer was accidentally given the

hotel accounting receipt for the Subject, on which

he noted "Name:

Joe Husgaque,

Room No:

403, Receipt

No: D 52138, Account No: 08325." In a short con-

versation with Subject, Dr. Steer learned that Subject.

was employed by the "Wilder Oil Company" and was en-

route to Warri, Nigeria on an 18 month contract.

Subject told Dr. Steer that he had recently arrived

In Lagos from Las Palmas via Accra on Nigerian Airlines.

3.

The above information was relayed to the

Bureau upon receipt by our duty officer on 29 April

1968. We were advised that the Bureau records did

sea 311/01792-68

CROS 1

Exchia t= 1023183

CATCA, S78

SECRET

09860

File: hay

ic: Assign

---

## Page 2

14.00000

-200.

not contain information on subject or the Hilder

Oil Company•

We then requested

in Lacos to

invastienta this

On 29 April, (liaison in Lagas checked the

Bristol Hotel and determined that a Joe Musgrove,

an American employee of McDermott Overseas Incorporated,

arrived in Lagos on 23 April fron Las Palmas and stayed

it Yestern state (artl when he was to leave fer the

received

this information on 30 Apras 19b0, and then visited

Mr. Ray Landry, a U. S. Citizen, Acting Chief of the

McDermott Company, and obtained the following infor-

mation from a personnel file:

Joe Bailey HUSGROVE

departed the U. S. on 9 October 1967 for employment

with McDermott Nigeria. He has been resident in

Nigeria since that date, except for the period 10-23 April,

when he went to Las Palmas on leave. Date of Birth:

24 April 1933.

Occupation: Welder. Home Address:

P.O. Box 1002, Farmington, New Mexico.

Married, wife

in U, S.

Father: Banks Musgrove, 1017 East Garden

(city and state not recorded).

also obtained a passport

photograph of the Subject from the lcDermott Company

and is forwarding the photo to our Headquarters.

Later on 30 April, liaison informed

that the Subject holds a b. s. assport

Number H-1052048, issued in the U. S. and valid until

•4 October 1970.

CSCI 316/01685-68

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14:00000

SEGlit 1

2 3 APR 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: TSD

Attentions Mr. Whitmas

SUBJECT

• James Earl Bay

I Attached ars nix copies each al two photographe

of Schjost These photographe are for the une of your analyste

for processin palsport photograpa.

2. Wo aparaciate your suggestion for aanisting in

the matter.

Richard Ober

CIOP/DO

5: As stated

File CRay 5

Chrono

SECRET

GROM 1

¿reladed trua antomatie

dowerading and

dadassifisatias

09861

---

