# 104-10163-10091

## Page 1

104-10163-10091,

24

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRÉT

ROUTING

FROM: UMWAVE

7

181

ACTION:

IW.

INFO.•

VR, FILE, CS/RF.

SECRE 7624048362

24 FEB 65 $2597 IN 86271

DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR CITE WAVE 8618

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMCLATTER-| WHO MET WITH FRANK FIORINI AND BILL JOHNSON

AT SOURCE'S HOUSE 14:30 28 FEB 65. FIORINI TOLD SOURCE THAT JOHRISON

SAID HE SAW JACK GRIFFIN AFTER HIS RELEASE BY U.S. AUTHORITIES FOLL-

OWING PLANE CRASH, BUT JOHNSON WOULD NOT DISCLOSE DETAILS THEIR CONVEP.-

SATION.

RID: INDEX. FILED 24/$936Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: 1• INSISTENCF. OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA THAT THE MIRR BOMB THE

CITY OF HABANA.

.!.:

11:2. USE OF AMERICAN PILOTS IN MIR AIR STRIKES

iN COMMENT.

RETURN TO CIA

Beckereund Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

WALSAS

12

WH/REG

RELLASING INP

Honks A

Daunda

CHARLES

M.

BOUNDS

TDCS DB-315/00652-65

X ROUTINE

I PRIORITY

BASED ON: UFG 6747

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

NO PROJECT

24 FEBRUARY 1965

(CLATTER/I)

0519Z

WAISON:

SECRET

BROUP !

ERGLUBIO+NON

AUTONATE

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE iS PROHIBITED.

Copy Mis.

I/BR

19,4

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

16=5-08

ROUTING

5

6

7

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

PAGE TWO

IN 86271

DO1: 13 - 28 FEBRUARY 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (22 FEBRUARY 1265)

UFG-6747

SOURCES A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACIS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO

U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM SILL JOHNSON.

sir...

10.1010

IM COMMENT:

YDES

ROUTINE

BASED ON

PRIORITY

RELEASING I WO

CATE DISTRIBUTED:

LIAISON.

87 19108

SECRET

MOPIANIC

REFRONUETION BY OTHER ¡HAIN ISSUING OFFIÇE IS PROMISITED.

- омое ";

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

* ises 3001

CONFIDENTIAL

sert tires

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

ORCUTIE

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF 20 FEBRUARY 1965

INA

TDCSD3-315100652-65

DISTR 24 FEBRUARY 1965

_ SUNECT .

1. MIRR INTENTION TO BOMB ¡LABANA

2. USE UF AMERICAN PILOTS lIL MIRR AIR STRIKES

MACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (22 FEERUARY 1965)

SOURCE

Ru

* 86271

MILD REPORT NO. UFG 6747

APPRAISAL A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF MABALA FOR SEVERAL YEARS.

THE SOURCE HAS CONTACIS WHO RECOGNIZE MIM AS A OAMEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

THIS INFORMATION MAS OBTAINED FROM GILE JOGISON.

- 1. ON 2$ FEBRUARY 1965, BILL JOHNSON, AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO

: ARRANGES THE SUPPORT ASPECTS JF AIR STRIKES AGAINST CURA BY ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA'S MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCION-

ARIA SMIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY), SAID

THAT THE MIRR WAS MAKING 18%-POUNO "ASH CAN" BOMBS FOR SUBSEQUENT

RAIDS, "MORE THAN AMPLE TO BLOW UP THE OIL TANKS IN HABANA." JOHNSON

SAID THAT BOSCH STILL INTENDS TO BOMB HABANA, BUT. "IT WILL BE AGAINST

MY ADVICE". JOHNSON LATER ADMITTED THAT HIS OMN MOTIVATION IS PURELY

MERCENARY. (FIELD COMMENT: SEE: ECSD8-315/88558-65, DATED 16

FEBRUARY 1965, FOR INFORMATION ON BOSCH'S INSISTENCE THAT THE CITY

"his material contains information allecting the Naruad Defensiot th

United States within the meaning of the Legioeng

Title 18, US.C. Soch. 793 and 794, the transmission de revelalion of masch

in any manner to an unauthorized person in

prohibited by law.

CROUS I

Eachedad

CONFIDENTIAL

STATE/E DIA

ARAYACE NAVY

AIR SCS SECDEF NS,

USLA

AD/CI 2

CIA/NMCC FBI LENS TREASURY, CUSTOMS

GONE BISSEM

OC!

ONE

ORR

00 EXU

BORDER PATROL

COAST GUARD

---

## Page 4

14-00000

18.

• *.

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS DB-

315/00652-65

PAGE

OF HABANA BE THE MIRR'S NEXT TARGET. THIS MISSION WAS ORIGINALLY

SCHEDULED FOR 1Ó FEBRUARY.)

2. JOHNSON ALLEGED THAT THE PLANES OPERATING FOR THE MIRR ARE

LEAVING FROM THE UNITED STATES. WHEN

•TAMPA WAS MENTIONED AS A POSSIBLE

DEPARTURE POINT, JOHNSON SAID: "YOU'RE GETTING CLOSE."

3. JOHNSON SAID HIS SMALL GROUP PRACTICES GOOD SECURITY."

"WHEN VE GET A PLANE AND A PILOT, WE CONTRACT THEM FOR THREE OPERATIONS""

THE PLANES ARE FLOWN BY AMERICAN PILOTS SINCE "THE CUBAN PILOTS DON'T

HAVE THE GUTS. "

4. JOHNSON GLAIMED THAT JACK GRIFFIN, THE AMERICAN PILOT WHO

CRASH-LANDED A B-25 EARLIER THAT MORNING, HAD TAKEN PART IN A PREVIOUS

RAID ON CUBA. HOWEVIR, HE DID NOT KNOW IF THE DOWNEU B-25 HAD EVER BEEN

USED IN ANY RAIDS. JOHNSON SAID HE DOES NOT KNOW DAN SHAW,

GRIFFIN'S CO-PILOT ABOARD THE DOWNED B-25.

5º JOHNSON INSISTED THAT THE RAID WHICH THE IRR ANNOUNCED AS

HAVING TAKEN PLACE ON BAHIA HONDA ON 13 FEBRUARY HAD TAKEN PLACE

IN SPITE OF THE FACT THAT CUBA HAS NOT ACKNOWLEDGED IT.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, ¡BI, CUSTOMS, LENS, BORDER PATROL, AND USCG.

(END OF MESSAGE)

CONFIDENTIAL

• CANTROLER 83301

and it: ?..

---

