# 104-10510-10154

## Page 1

104-10510-10154

DISPATCH

And +39-104149

439-9110,0 BECAMO

"I HAIIING"

kuw

Chlot. Western Heatsphere Dayliton.

C Return of Documents and bist of Brthlate cor ANTIC Fle

Paragraph i

Roferencon;

UFGA-26581 datod # Decombor 1066

B. UFGA-20626 datod 15 Docenbor 1968

1.

Forwarded under soparato cover attachment'À are tho

replies recolved in roforences from ANTIK!®

It 1a

roquerted

thnt thoso lottora

bo returned to ANTIKI for rotontion 1n

individual Subjoct files.

It 1a recommonded that AMTIKI assumo rospongbility

for revlowing the status of minor depondonte in ordor to

nutomatically terminate paymonts to those individuals who

become 21 yoars of ago. This should be done on a regular

30-day

baals sinco many of these depondents will become in

olisible for paymont during 1907. A list of birthdates

compiled by

Is forwardod under separate

cover attachnont y to assIat ANTIKI in monitoring this oper

ation.

Bone procodure should also be ostablishod by ANTIKI

for porlodically attempting to ostablish proof of marriayen

contracted by dependonte.

3. A quartorly Station roport is requestod on all

future payment torminations In ordor that Headquarter's

rocords may be maintained on a current basis.

Diatribution:

3 - COS/ JWYAVE

Attachments (USC):

A - Lettors for

Roturn to ANTIKI

B - Liat 01 Birthdates for ANTIKI

CROSS REFERDRE TO

19-124-25/5°

DISPATEN SYNSOL AND MUMBER

DATE

UPGN -6328

CLASSIFICATION

NOS FILE NUMBER

BECRET

19-124-25/5

ORIGINATING

OFFICE

H/ COG/CICS Nancyc

same Grates min

COORDINATING

OFFICE FIMBIL

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

WIL/COG/ MO

13.r.0

ExT.

2463

27 Decomber 1966

Distribution:

1 - WH/ COG/ESEC

- WII/ COG/NO

-RID

DESt

Four 53

UHE PHEWIOUS GOITON

**$ * 86

OFFICE SUNRICA

RELEASING

hunt tit

14401

DISPATCH

---

