meme

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Yass matertal coptatne taftnaation afecting the Fatesai Outvas of the Cattad Stem within the meaning of the Stone Lawa The
VA OBC Gece THO and TH the traneminton of fovmincon of Which fa any canoer to aa wneuthorimd perecd te prohibited by ies

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DIBSEM

Country Cuba’ \ REPORT NO. —- CS_ CI-316/00629-6S
susect “Pelencho" (an alias) DATE DeSTR, 10 February 1965

no.paces 1

cia

mead ABTURN TS.» Ont
ate oF . “eager
ino, 1964 \ Dono
ruce 4 Washington, D. C. :
DATE aca, December. 196 RAD REPORT NO. z

THis 15 UNEVAIUATED MFOWATON. SOURCE GLADUNGS AMT OETNITVE APPRAISAL OF COMTENT 8 TOCATIVE

source, A foraer Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments i

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1, Source knew "Pelencho," whose true name he was unable
to recall, as a member of the Departamento de Seguridad del
Estado (Department of State Security - DSE). He was a good
friend of Norbarto HERNANDEZ Curbelo (see CSCI-316/01239-64,
12 October 1964).

2. "“Pelencho” was born between 1935 and 1940, is five feet
six inches tall, weighs 135 pounds, and has a slim build.1

Headquarters Comment

1, The records of this Agency reveal no information on "Pelencho.”

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEW 7

sia Ten Tet
REP CINCLANT CINCSO = TENS

[Dict Feld darinaton ndieted by =")

UFGA 19020(9De«

“Canon @

19-5-1

cules wane ee eee

we me

4)
JO PROJECT (AKMUGS 1)
ICSCI-316/00629-65
