104-10331-10093}

Meum . —SEGREE*

LSI 0321/93
16 September 1993

| MEMORANDUM FOR: Special Assistant to the Associate
Deputy Director for Operations

| FROM: Frank Most
{ HRG Senior Review Officer

, SUBJECT: Organization Crypts in the JFK File
|

1. The cryptonyms listed below appear frequently in
‘the Oswald 201 files and the JFK collection. It is not
funusual for the delection of these crypts to be the only

. Sanitization in the text of the documents. Each crypt is
‘inactive (cancelled), and some have been publicly exposed.
According to your memorandum on "Release of JFK
/Assassination Records" dated 25 June 1993, "if the crypt has
been retired, does not relate to existing or another project
and does not contain a valid digraph," it may be released in
some cases. These cryptonyms meet the criteria set forth in
your memorandum and, under the JFK Assassination Records Act
of 1992, are not protectable.

2. As part of the rereview of the "Denied in Full" and
"Sanitized" documents in the JFK Collection, HRG will be
‘releasing the following crypts:

1. KUBARK - CIA

2. KUDOVE - Clandestine Services

3.  KUDESK - Counterintelligence Division
4. GPFLOOR - Oswald

5. GPFOCUS - Kennedy, Robert F.

6. GPIDEAL - Kennedy, John F.

7. ODACID - State

CL BY
DECL
DR FR MET 2-82



SUBJECT: Organization Crypts in the JFK File

8.

10.
11.
12.
13.
14.

15.

16.

17.

lee: DO/IRO

‘APPROVED:

ODENVY - FBI
ODFOAM - Secret Service
ODOATH ~ Navy

ODURGE

INS

ODYOKE - U.S. Govt.

PBPRIME - U. S. (American Cits.)
PBRUMEN - Cuba

PBSWING - U. S. Embassy or Official
Installation

WOFACT - CIA

WOMACE - DDO

ke Frank Most\_

a

| A SE ty 72

Chief’/Historical Review Group Date
i


SUBJECT: Organization Crypts in the JFK File

DCI/CSI/HRG/BJHarrelson:hfs/xx30335 (16 Sep 93)

if
Distribution:

Original - Addressee
1 = C/HRG
1. - Frank M.
1 - Barry H.
1 - HRG file
