Toe t0ne-0250

PROCESSING ACTION

> eASHICATION
SECRET/RYBAT
MARKED FOR INDEXING .
ie 5
Chief, European Division (ATTN: ERKLAND - EYES ONLY) No INDEXING REQUIRED
nro. . JONLY QUALIFIED DESK
[can 4u0Ge IoBKING

om
igniter of satel OTA micnoru
sae

RYBAT/MHCHAOS/Transmittal of Contact Report
[ACTON QUIRED = RSEENCES

ed is a contact report on cantons 2 July meeting with

Fauk Ke. Chalom “4

Paul K, CHALEMSKY

Attachment: — H/W
Contact Report

Distribution:
3 = C/EUR, w/att

CASATION HOS FE MN
_ SECRET/RYBAT

suse ePATOT SABO ANG HONE Ont
OFPA-90301 11 guly 1969

200-6-387/3 <9 57



14-00000

CONTACT REPORT:
PARTICIPANTS:

PLACE & TIME : Metro Dupleixs 8 July 1445; Cafe Tatavia, 1445-1730

NEXT MEETING .: Cafe Batavila, 1730, 9 guly HEyp UNCHED

PETUNIA; CHALEMSXY

1. Contact established, eventho PETUNIA was standing on the wrong side of the i
metro station and got his part of the recogition phrases wrong. Explained that he :
had been busy on the 3rd and thought it better to stay where he was than to leave j
to meet CHALEMSKY, Had prepared notes on nis contacts (had had initial difficulty
in finding anyone, finally called Susan George and get reintroduced into the circle).

Cox runs a hang-out in Pantin for deserters, SDS activists,
‘casuéls passing through ParisP address is 3, r. Gabrielle Jasserand
ia Pantin [Paris suburb -- this address figured in an UNDERBID report on the :
arrest of sone deserters for possession of drugs]. Did not know how long this
house has been in operation; rent is 1200 frs/mo [$240,]. Cox spends a lot of
tine making the contributions circuit to raine money to pay for the house -~ mentioned
having got $100 from Sartre, some money from de Beauvoir (no figure mentioned) and
1500 frs from Katherine Deneuwa [movie actress]. Cox also gets support from Resist
in the States and is now negotiating with Resist to get them to pick up the montily
rent as a form of support, (No names mentioned in this centext.) Also gets some '
very nodest support from the Monthly Review, most of it in the form of books and
periodicals for their political use (and presumably, sales —- 1f possible). | Mike
Spiegel of National SDS was in towa this lest year, Cox said (no date) ‘and said he
would try to get then support from the States,
Cox himself first came to Paris to take French lessons prior to
assignment somewhere in Africa with one of.the church~identified international
voluntary service orgaiizations, After 6 mos of language, he decided that he wanted
to renain in Paris and proposed to his sponsors that he be allowéAto work here )
i
|

avong deserters and draft resisters Xthe letter of proposal described this in social *
work terms, but Cox said he didn't hide what he planned to do and in fatt let his
sponsors know; he didn't expect them to approve it). The group in effect turned
their heads to the political implications of Cox’ work, and agreed to let him stay
in Paris on salary ($240, month); they asked for monthly reports, which he has not
sent them, Of his $240, he contiadbutes $40 to the food budget of the house.

There are 20 deserters/resisters who live in the house, and
PETUSIA described them as a bunch of apolitical bums. Most of the good, politically
minded deserters work in France to save money to buy false documentation and passage
to Canada, then leave. Whose who remain behind aren't interested in politics and
aren't capable of much.‘ From one girl who hangs out.with this group he got various
anecdotes of life among the deserters: one sends letters to Mao Tse-tung informing
him that 1000 men in Canada, 15,000 in Alaska and others in France who are preparing
to take over the US and are in training at the moment ("math class from.9=10 this
rocning") and asking Mao to send some divisions to help the invasion; another went
on = starvation diet and saved every ponny he could find (to buy his way out of
France), then went off and bought a monkey ($40); another always pulls a knife on
people, and threatans to go back into the Army if not allgwed to play his game.
From Cox, PETUNIA learned that Philip Wegner is in a he saved enough, or
was able to find someone to benkroil him, and went to Canada. PETUNIA got the
impression that this was undex false documentation (which can be bought for $300, »
(No names ox hints of where one cen get this documentation.)

Everyone displzys the usual paranoia on the subject of CIA. Larry
and others are positive that there is an agent in the house; they are very suspicious
of cach other and play games ag to trip each other up. They claim that within

s after a deserter has arrived ia France, the Embassy knows everything about |
i

Cox has a Swigs fiancee who plans to join him soon in Paris; she
is studying educational psychology in Geneva with an u/i professor there who Cox
said was about to set off. 2 revoiution in this field, They both want to go to the
States, and Cox talked about going there when she finishs in Geneva.
work in a factory and get involved in organizing within the movement,’ . Since he has
refused induction 3 timas, he expects legal action to be taken ggainst. him when he |
zeturas (and vondered whether'they' would also get him for aiding and sbetting

desertion within the army), He described his major work here as dealing with

docerters and resisters, trying to educate them and get them involved in the movement,

and in vorking with Gls in Gerraay, encouraging them to desert. A few GI's on R&R
have stayed at the house in Pantin our

He wants to



14-00000

eo 1. °

Deseribed life & times in Paris as tough, but getting a little
batter now. Most of the deserters want to leave and none of those here are here
for political reasons. Cox made a trip to Sweden last winter (by microbus), and
met the ADC there, Said nobody likes Sweden (lousy weather, no work, lousy
people eventho they get a warm reception).

2. Eg .PUBINSKY:
former math prof at Tulane (got fired for taking part in some

protest -~ on the racial issue?). Was in Warsaw earlier this summer for an
international mathematicians conference, came to Paris and plans go to
Cambridge and then to Canada where he has a job offer (in Montreal? While Fwy
in Warsaw, met a Polish woman (age 32, Andreajea B-—; married, three children;
former funcationary of the PZPR but forced out because of Jewish origins), and

he is considering marrying her. She has asked him to come back to Warsaw and
live. He mentioned a strong possibility that he would be invited to teach or

do research at the Univ of Warsaw (apparently something of a center for higher
math), and said for personal and professional reasons he'd love to go —~ this
would be sometime around 1970/71, Thinks of living in the UK or Israel with

his new Polish wife after that; probably UK, Dubinsky was quasi-invited to

@ meeting here with the Viets, which is why he in Paris. Before leaving

the States he got letters of introduction from Robart Greenblatt and Mel Rakok
Rothenberg to Mue Than Van Pham. Dubinsky had been contac’ Y Dubinsky

about a meeting of mathematicians with the Viets ito discuss the state of

higher math in Vietnam and life in general" [this apparently said with a straight
facel], which he billed to PETUNIA as an apolitical meeting "to prepare for ©
Anerican-Viet relations after the war". Dubinsky was supposed to meet Greenblatt
in Paris, but he can't find himad can't find anyone who knows him...so he's
taken to sitting in cafes.in hopes Greenblatt with walk past! If Greenblatt

and the meeting don't show up soon, he's going to leave for Cambridge. He is
reluctant to contact the Viets directly despite the two letters of introduction
since he says he'd not give the time of day to anyone who just appeared at his
door -~ with or without letters. {His position was reinforced by Susan George,
who agreed; George added that she didn't know Than Van Pham] ne

<a,

3. Martha BULTNAN: :

“~~——~""Met on 20 June (address: 4, ave. Hoche; tel CAR 42-84), Said
her father John Hess had just written a book on De Gaulle and liis foreign policy;
was rather proud of his father. Said "uy. father would be considered to be
extreme left in the US, but actually he is cautious if even a conservative in
many ways." Said her parents were za2kix very suspicious and had always told
always to be careful since you never could tell when someone works for the CIA,
Described her father as having a tremendous amount of Imowsédge about a great
many things, waich is reflected in his writing. He can easily argue an opposing
viewpoint, and does in social conversations for the fun of it, Dhey travel a
good deal, using Paris as hote. Last year, her parents went to Amsterdam and
Switzerland and are planning to go to Amsterdam again, Hess started out in
Latin America, twenty or so years ago. At one time he worked in Cuba making
cigars or something (PETUNIA: that's a direct quote!); speaks Spanish perfectly.
Martha commented: "of course he is very sympathetic toward radical youth and thé
revolutionary moverent in general, but has a critical spitit." He supposed to
be very strict about not imposing on people he knows, and would never send one
friend to contact another, Had dinner one night (apparently recently)) with
Mary McCarthy and husband (chez Eess). Commented EcCarthy is very bourgeoise;
her Husband is quiet and looks like Clay Shaw, McCarthy feels that the NVNese
have handled their propaganda rather badly on the war, and Hess agreed (no |
elaboration). Hy

Martha is sympathetic towards the deserters and resisters
in Paris, says there are 13 or 14 who are the real committed ones, but about
60 who are in the Paris 'novenent group’. McCarthy apparently has pretty
good contact with the movenent, and is at least in contact with some resisters;
said that she'd mentioned Cox! @ once.

Martha works for SDS in New Orleans, but is tired of their
rhetoric; she can't stand PLP people. Mentioned Sue Munaker (another PETUNIA
contact) had written a 40 page essay oa the te Lib ea

Martha knows

be published in some forthconing beok oa the stud@St les
Dubinsky.



14-00000

Susan GEORGE:

Met Susan George on 24 June (address 42 r. du Cherche-llidi;
phone nuzber LIT 48-01)... Discussed banning of PACS last October: she said the
leader of tha MDPL (Claude Bourdet) suggested that PACS members joinmc the MDEZ;
theee had been no little hesitation efter the French had tossed Croyell out but

H people wera now gravitating teware the MMPL which is composed of individuals
from almost every political grouping. The MDPL's basic issue is of course
Vietnam, though at bhse the movement is committed to an antimimperialist, anti-
capitalist position. George described it as a very flexible organization with

“no structured leaders or administrative committees so ka it can avoid the
bureaucratic indecision of old PACS leadership groups., MDPL members are
developing “political consciousness” 2nd have passed the point of regarding
the Vietnam war as just 2 mistake",

George, herself, was working at the American College at in
the Registrar's office; said there were about a half dozen radicals in the
College, she knows them and is sympathetic toward their efforts, Claims the
schools administrator is a "paranoic dictator", She resigned after aa
principal of the school accused her of “conspiratorial counseling".
done translating work, but ef prefers more “active” and less neindining”
jobs. She has received an advance from Beacon Press to write a book on
Azericens deserters in France, When PETUNIA asked her where he income really
came from, she replied thst she lives off her husband!

: The tone of the conversation with her, PETUNIA commented, was
very pro-UNesej she said they have offered "magnanimous gestures to work with
thefAherican people after the war is over", . Feels that they are handling

the war ghd the negotiations brilliently. She frequently sees "her Vietnamese
friends", and they have told her they are very satisfied with the progress of
ithe struggle and its certain outcome. Mentioned that she would see her friends

! the next day to get their reactions/epproval to a circular prepared for
‘distribution edvertising the 4 July meeting. Also said she had just talked
with her friends last night about the meeting. and was sure that they would
approve the circular.

Mise: she made a tape for Pacifica Corp on "the war and
resistance, you know..,.". said that a Paris law student uka is giving legal
help and draft counselling to resisters in Paris (!)3 name not mentioned.
seid that last year she was mostly tied up with PACS and didn't work with

»,"Mazaist Studay Groups". Plans to go to the US in August to visit her mother.

5. John Sk LNU: :
jeserter from Army whom PETUNIA met in the Luxembourg by
chance, C&ained he was in security in the Army and was one of two who had
brokea a Russian code; because he had.a German girlfriend and had gone off
for several weekends with her (AWOL), he was thrown in jail, Left about a
yest ago, he said, and has been in France for 7 months. Has no money and
few possessions; is looking for ways to get $300 with which to buy papers to
go éo Canada where he wants to settle, Whide in France, he has been living
off rich old women, Was living in the ADC house in Pantin but got thrown
out because he was an acid-head and was bringing pot home. (PETUNIA comented -
you have to be pretty bad to get thrown out of that hou: Claimed to be
from Cleveland, originally, . Said that some French movie actress puts up
the money for the deserters’ house end contributes to their funds, PETUNIA
described his as a real crackpot and potentially dangerous. Has no place —
to stay in Paris and is thinking about going south for a while; mentioned |
that "we" have a couple of colonies in Toulouse.

6. Maria JoLss:

Met on 2 July. Joles asked about the movement in the States
aad concluded that the radicals can't afford to bicker Like children (with
xeference to the SDS/PLP split. Said she thought the PL position with respect to
the NVNese and the war was ridiculous -- made no other comments on the American
movement.

Said that what happened to "Max" was regrettable, but that
his tactics were deplorable, He virtually snubbed his nose at the French
police, 5
Said that she felt the Anericari movement had largely forgotten
the war and that more work against the war was being done in Paris than in

the US, Mentioned the Paris movement was pretty well coordinated and ready
to go with coordinated demonstrations to time with those held in the US, last
fall, but the MOB simply failed to keep in touch with them. Said that this

was no fault of Dave Detllingor's, whose credentials were impeccable, but he



dogs need an orgenizational secretary behind him, Nevertheless, she lamented the
fect that mony people from the old PACS were frightened away after the French
paaned it (afraid of losing passports or being tossed out), and not everyone had
joined Bourdet's outfit.

7, Anti-Vietnem Meetings:

Oa 24 gune, a group collected at Claude Bourdet's home to use his
eddzess file to send out invitations to the 4 July meeting. Bourdet's address
file comprises approximately 1,500 names and addresses; Bourdet commented that he
hed a separate file for French communist party members, Working at the meeting
were Susan George, Dean Suvage, Relph Fischer and Elizabeth LNU [Adler?]. Fischer
Sccega is a physics teacher at & Jr. College in Brooklyn visiting Paris. Savage
is married to a YugoBiav girl; he writes for the Guardian, about 25 years old,
clean shaven, bright but cold. On others, see above.

Oa 3 July, another group collected to work up posters for the =~
ueeting. Involved then were: Cox, Dubinsk$, Elizabeth LNU, Susan George, Jolas,
a deserter, a resister and 2 girls. No names for the latter four. PETUNIA
picked up the info that the deserter wes from Vietnam, he held a factory job,
his father is a good friend of Westmoreland's.

On 4 July, the meeting took place: it altemated speakers and
texts: one hour, someone read the names of American war dead; second hour,
someone read from texts provided by the Vietnamese. On the latter point, there
was a lest minute change of tactics by the Viets. The original idea had been
2 political wake for the American dead end for those in Vietnamese villages
Doubed by the Americans, Thus: the names of the war dead and the names of
bombed villages would be reed out. At the last moment, the Viets told Susan
George that the names of bombed villeges had non “political significance", and
insteed they'd rather the mecting read aloud from material marked in red by
the Viets. George what along with the idea, though Joles among others didn't
like it since it sltered the purpose and impact of the meeting. Nonetheless,
the Viet alteration was accepted. Very few people attended the 4 July meeting;
PETUNIA wasn't impressed at all, Everyone signed two books open in the back
of the room: one called for an end to the war; a second was a péedge of support
to the Viets. Evergone signed, and the Viets took this book back with then,
Three Viets appeared during the day, sat quietly in the back of the room and
said little to anyone other than themselves, and left not long after they'd
arrived, One of the three returned that evening to collect the signature book.
After the meeting was over at midnight, everyone went their separate ways.

8. Ca ea da

‘Anecdote from Dubinsky. Dubinsky said ke first metz@Sb$Ge in
Chea (where Dubinsky was for a while doing social work). While there he also
net someone else he described as, at the time, his best friend, Later he heard
frou UsighnéHerve that his friend had been the one who killed Richard Wright.
Dubinsky did not mention the name, but said the episode is described in the
bdobraphy on Wright, He at fizet refused to believe Julia Herva's assertion
but later becane convinced of it. His friend never denied the guilt,
aid admit to being a CIA agent. Wright was killed by the CIA because he had
just finished a manuscript on the use of American blacks abroad by the -
government.

9. Other:
a. From his girlfriend, PETUNIA learned that Rene Mayer has
"“dissppeared"; he has apparent$y left France and no one knows where he si.
b. The Lancaster family uhan PETUNIA met last time is now in Brazil.
cs Zsked me to check on Barrio —~ nobody answers at their phone number.
d. raised the problem of his hernia and draft status == see cable.
e. schedule agreed to: he'll be back on or about the Ist and will
let me know via postcard (innocuous and wish you were here variety, scribbled
signature) what date he'll be back, Site and time of meeting arranged.
£.. Said he was about out of money; agreed to get together very
briefly the following day so f could give him some money,

Paul, & CHALEMSKY
