# 104-10216-10367

## Page 1

104-10216-10367

LINFORMATION RERORT

INFORMATION REPORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

1, 006. Does 111 and 704 the tune

mon on surelation of when to any menses to an unnathanand punen is prohibtled by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSES/COXTROLLED DISSEY

COUNTrY Cuba/Venezuela/Nicaragua

SUNECT

Fidel Castro's Success in

Splitting the Communist Party of

Venezuela and Castro's Plans for

Subversion in Nicaragua

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSDB-312/00468-65

23 February 1965

2

Ameras i Part

DATE OF Early January 1965

PLACE A

United States

DATE ACQ.

(3 January 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A prominent Cuban exile who is a fairly reliable reporter and ho

retains some contacts in Cuba; from a former high-level Cuban

official who was once active in the revolutionary movement and a

confidant of Fidel Castro, but who is now anti-Castro.

tinues to maintain contacts with many Cuban officials at all

• levels of government.

reports that appear

Source has provided a limited number of

to have been accurate.

1, Cuban Premier Fidel Castro Ruz has sent large amounts of money,

In Cuba.

and ammunition to Venezuela, and has also trained Venezuelans

With this money and arms,

Castro has succeeded in split-

ting the Communist Party of Venezuela (PCV) to the extent that

Castro now has more control over the PCV than the Soviet Union has.

Many members of the PCV, following Fidel Castro's orders, have

taken to the hills as guerrillas.

Castro is strongly supporting

and has extended considerable aid to the Venezuelan Fuerzas

• Armadas de Liberacion Nacional (FALN, Armed Forces of National

liberation)

2. As of early January 1965 Castro was planning to concentrate an

extensive effort against Nicaragua in the near future.

intends to "raise the temperature" in Nicaragua through guerrilla

activity and a strong propaganda campaign against General Anastasio

Somoza out.

free to take over the country, using the same tactics as those

utilized in Vietnam.

Headquarters Comments

1, TDCSDB-315/00362-65 describes a meeting between Castro and a

group of Venezuelans, including the chief of the FALN, which

took place in Havana on 7 December 1964.

#TATE

ĐIA

REPCINCLANT

Mater Flede distributter

ARMY

USIA

1by "#*.)

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN/CONTROLLED DISSEM

I MAWY

INSA

I&NS

3

I oca

TFBI

2

NORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORTI

S5/203

7E/5.R

ZOH7Z/N

3

SA/Intel

SA/WAVE

WE/MADR

10S-23%1

1WH/3/V

3

SAVR

5

SA/SO/HH

WH/CARA

AP. (AMBIDDY-1,

SA/CI

2

AMLASH-1)

WH/MANA

SA/MOB

CI/OPS/WH

2

WH/R

CSDB-312/09468-65

CI 4,

CA 1, DO/H 1, WE 1 (1),

WH/2

RAD RIT

VH/SA 14 (1). WH 7 (2)

WH/ 3

VF; eb

1a so. 1

SITE PETITE ITIONE

---

