104-10186-10234

ree

‘Tiiis material contains information aZecting the National Defense of
14, USC. Gece 719 and 14, the Wanumlasion of revelation of which

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

United States within the meaning of the Replonace Laws, Tue
ay eoaaner to 68 unsulberisnd perme le prohibited Wy law,

SECRET ‘
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTRY Cuba " REPORT NO. 1-316/01232-64
SuuecT (fnu) SUNOL DATE DISTR. 6 October 1964
NO, PAGES 2 rey NJ
REFERENCES, Fs
: SS &
pate oF 1964 és BY
Linked S) s
piace & Washingtoa, D. C. wer RS
DATE ACQ. October _1964 eww eePont
THis 1S UNEVALUATED INFOMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DENMITIVE. APPRAISAL OF Ws TentaTve.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964. ?

Headquarters Comments \

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the scurce and includes, supplemental
information (rom the records of this Agency.

It 1s requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

Comandiste SUNOL, on orders ftom Fidel CASTRO, instructed
Manuel PINEIRO, by letter (wnich source saw), to arrange for
guerrilla warfare training in June or July 1963, for a Guatemalan
named Mareo Ac ic LEON! Aguilar aad others whom CASTRO had amet

in Moscow.!,2,

Headquarters Comments

In a repert dated 13 November 1959, a usually reliable source .
921 teacher who volunteered her

t of Tecnbical, Materaal, and Cultural

assistance for the Farmers, wrote a letter to the Chief of

the National Revolutionary Police in which she informed him

that Eddie SUNOL, an officer in the Cuban Rebel Army, was

aligaed with TRUJILLO, the Dominican ileaiannaie against the

thea present Cuban government. 7

2. Another office of «his Agency reported that an untested source,
in a report dated 21 June 1962, said that Comandante Eddy SUNOL
Ricardé was the former chief of the 7th Military District and
a veteran PSP member in Purnio, Holguin. After leaving the

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

wate Tow Tatar Trav Tae “Tse TREX Toce 1 Forz

there ald distbution Indseared Oy ”

SCLANT__CINCSO =__]&ns

mrerstys 1h
roreetwn sy 7 (1), WE 1 (2),

i XO PROJECT ( AMMUC
ee -316/ 01232-

fcr iia Tire
yeeluueal eta — i

eet Firvzcaae

tates @


et ae OE ae Set
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSC1-316/01232-64

2.

7th Military District he went to North Vict Nam and other Soviet Bloc
countries. In October 1961 he was in Holguin where he was active

in the supervision of Communist propaganda programs. SUNOL was born
about 1927, is about five feet eight inches tall, 160 pounds, and
has a dark complexion.

In a report dated 19 October 1962, an untested source reported that
Major Eduardo SUNOL was in command of Division 59 which was sent to
combat insurrectionists active in the spurs of the Sierra de Gibara

in Cuba.

An untested source, in a report dated 22 October 1962, said that
Eddy SUNOL Ricardo, a Rebel Army major who fought with Fidel CASTRO
in the mountains, was his cousin. SUNOL held ranking position in
sae ORI in Oriente Province, is a Communist, and lives in Santiago
de Cuba. SUNOL was born in 1923, is five feet ten inches tall,
180 pounds, had a dark complexion, black hair and eyes, and wears
a Rebel Army uniform with a major insignia, His son, Hector SUNOL,
born about 1945, has lived with Raul CASTRO in Habana since 1959.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
