<=

=
508
88
S-B-C-R-E-T 23 a
: zee

fan Tg ae XW TX fae X[xea 1 [ea

RSPODCLANT COOARIBF 5 25
Teter Woshingron difibution tndisted Oy 7K) Fold diariorion by -F*} F 52
Wesco
esa

a

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
the United States within the measing of the Espionage Laws, Tue

+ Tle material contains information adacting the Ratioval Defense of
18 USO. Goce 793 ang THA the Uranemisicn oF rereiaticn of whieh in any @anner WO ao Uoautborised parte ie prohibited vy lowe

S-E-C-RE-T
NCFORN CONTINUED CONTROL,

RepoRt NO. CS~3/S1h U2. +

COUNTRY Guba
SUBJECT —_‘Thorease of Sabotage in Cuba DATE OST, «20 dune 1962
. NO. PAGES 1.
REFERENCES RD
rod Mid-Hay 1962 zi . i
Bae te, Rene: Lanica FIELD REPORT NO.

OATE ACQ._(1 June 1962)

UNEVALUATED INFORMA ORADINOS ARE DIVINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

from "a regular source, quoting Jovan Mirio,

‘SOURCE:
‘Sorresponden J00, Yugoslav press agency.”

> ry
Appraisal of Content: 3..

1. Tho militia is no longer regarded by the Cuban Govornment as a sorious
faotor in internal or external defense. Instead, it 4s used as a recruiting

ground for the Armed Forces, which are now thoroughly professional and
well-trained.

2. Armed clashes between opposition groups and goverment forces have ccourred
dn several provinces, including Matanvas,.Canaguey, ani Pinar del Rio.

3. There has been a notable increase in sabotage since February or March 1962,
Buildings and factories have been blow up or burned, cane f1olds set on 7
fire, and above a1, passive reistance hag grown in certain industries,
especially the sugar refining industry. A different pattern of sabotage
has merged. Instead of setting off explosive or incendiary bombs ihere
they might cause loss of life or injury, thus arousing popular resentment:
against the opposition, targets are chosen for the maximm financial damage

or dislocation.

‘SHOTR,
€S~3/51b h22.

ern rere
Lo va
Sy

1, IB 2, CI
Tw 11 (1), Wh QQ).

