104-10337-40005)

ADMINISTRATIVE-INVERNAL Ud Unuws

os 63 064/;
ER 3124/93 oe)
17 May 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Administration
Deputy Director for Intelligence
Deputy Director for Operations
Deputy Director for Science and Technology
Chief, DCI/Personnel

FROM: Executive Director

SUBJECT: Request for Assistance/Declassification
of JFK Assassination Records

1. This memorandum requests that addressees identify
staff employees for overtime, after-hours work on Agency
records related to President John F. Kennedy's assassi-
nation. The overtime will be paid by the Center for the
Study of Intelligence. The request. stems from a requirement
in the JFK Assassination Records Act that all relevant
government documents be reviewed for declassification and
transferred to the National Archives by 22 August 1993.

2. The specific task for which assistance is needed is
indexing of data into an automated system and ultimately
producing computer-generated forms called “identification
aids." MThis involves keying in information onto a pre-set
form that appears on a personal computer screen. (Experi-
ence in indexing or as a document analyst. is necessary.)
The Act cited above requires that each document transferred
to the National Archives have attached to it such an aid.
The same information that is developed in the aids willbe
produced on diskettes that will be forwarded to the National
Archives for use in compiling an electronic index.

3. We estimate that it will require up to 20 people
working 10 hours of overtime per week, probably beginning in
early June, to meet our deadline. The work will be done in
the office of the Historical Review Group, in Ames Building.
The preferred hours would be Monday-Friday, 1630-1830, or
1700-1900, and there may be work on Saturday as well.

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Request for Assistance/Declassification of
JFK Assassination Records

4. Applicants should contact the Historical Review
Group, Center for _the Study of Intelligence, Room 404 Ames,
ext. 30335)or [: Borde | (secure) .

R. M. Huffstutler

Attachment: ~* ae
CSI-0048, dtd 2 Apr 93

ANMTNTSTPATTVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

eastierostcrsi H ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE-UNLY

SUBJECT: Request for Assistance/Declassification of
JFK Assassination Records

DCL/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs x30335) (12 May 93)

Distribution:

Original ~ Addressees
- EXDIR
D/cSI
— C/HRG
- HRG file

BBB Be
t

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY


een ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

ER 93-0325
18 May 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
FROM: Executive Director

SUBJECT: Completing Work on JFK Assassination Records

1. Your office has asked whether additional resources are
needed to complete work on the JFK records by the deadline
established by Congress of 22 August 1993. Barring the
unforeseen, we should meet the deadline.

2. The Historical Review Group expects to complete review of
all hard copy files (some 250,000 pages) by early June. Since
coordination with the directorates has lagged, we have taken. steps
to increase the number of directorate reviewers. The DO has
approximately doubled the number of reviewers to eight. They are
committed to adding additional resources if required.

3. The second problem is the need to prepare identification
aids for every document transferred to the National Archives. I
have given approval for up to 20 indexers and document analysts to
work overtime on this effort.

4. A potential problem exists in processing a box of
microfilm, which contains the equivalent of some 172,000 pages of
additional material. The Historical Review Group believes a large
part consists of duplicates of material already reviewed. They
should know whether this assumption is correct within the next few
days. In any event, I will assign additional resources if needed.

5. he President has yet to name the Review Board called for

by the JFK Act; therefore, we cannot determine whether the board
will have additional requirements for us.

} Se tn Phe fetatton f

‘  R. M. Huffstutler

ADMINISTRATIVE--INTERNAL USE ONLY


ADMINISTRATIVE--INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Completing Work on JFK Assassination Records

Distribution: (ER 93-0325)
Orig - Addressee
1 C/HRG/CSI

1 - EXDIR Chrono
1 - EXDIR Subject
1 - Executive Registry

HRG/CSI/JPereira :hs (80335) (17May93)
Retyped: 0/EXDIR/pad (67902) (18May93)

2
ANMINTETBATTVE--INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000
a, _LLECTIONS
_ EASE IN FULL

2000
“uy
ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

26 May 1993

NOTE FOR: D/CSI

SUBJECT: Review of JFK Documents

Following are additional steps being taken to complete
the declassification of the JFK records:

1. We are arranging to bring in at least 20 indexers
to work overtime on inputting information into the
data base from which identification forms will be

printed.

- Estimated overtime cost: $50,000 (could go
higher, depending on number of people we need).

- On 5 April the EXDIR gave approval for up to
20 indexers at cost of $3-4,000 weekly.

2. The microfilm file is to be printed out in hard
copy as soon as possible.

- Estimated contractor cost: $17,000.

- Contractor selected by LOGS is Octo Inc,
Laurel, Md. 2

3. We are acquiring two additional specialized

copiers for redaction of documents to be released.
(DCI/LOGS is arranging a short term lease.)

f-

John Pereira

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY


FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SBCIAL COLLECTIONS:

ASE A : at Ss
2099 El id sectenin 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director

VIA: Director
Center for Study of Intelligence

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: Resource Requirements for
Historical Review Group

1. The purpose of this memorandum is to outline the
resources required to enable the Historical Review Group
(HRG) to accelerate the declassification of the microfilmed
Kennedy assassination records. With the additional
resources, we would expect to complete the review of the
microfilm--equivalent to about-150;000 pages--by the end of
this year.

2. Personnel: An additional number of contractors
equivalent to 12 full-time reviewers.

~ There are now nine staff reviewers and nine
contractors in HRG. Six of the staffers are on
rotational assignment until May/June 1994, when they
will be replaced by contractors.

3. Computers: Twelve additional computer terminals
and associated equipment, including a printer, and
enhancements to the present LAN. Estimated cost: $49,000.

4. Other equipment: One high-speed copier. Estimated
cost: $15,000.

5. Space: Acquire an estimated 1,400 square feet to
accommodate additional contractors, equipment, and document
storage space. .Storage shelves for approximately 200
archival boxes are needed.

6. There will be a continuing need for the resources
described above even after declassification of the Kennedy
assassination records is completed. The Agency is committed
to releasing to the National Archives substantial
collections of records on topics such as the Bay of Pigs,
the Guatemalan coup, the coup in Iraq, and several other
major covert action programs. We also are committed to


13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Resource Requirements for
Historical Review Group

releasing all national intelligence estimates on the former
Soviet Union that are ten years old or older. In addition,
HRG is charged with declassifying a growing number of

documents for the State Department's "Foreign Relations of

the United States" series. :
s Z7
LP lowe v4

John F. Pereira

RAP ArETetaAr rer ary


13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Resource Requirements for
Historical Review Group

DCI/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs/30335 -’ (14 Sep 93)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - D/CSI
1 - C/HRG
1 - HRG file

FOR OFFTCTAT. SF ONT.Y


13-00000

3 Sept. 1993
Estimated cost related to review of mircofilm of JFK docs.
Re para 3 of memo:

Current level of effort required to complete review within 5 to 6 months:9 staff employees
&TICSs.

Estimated cost based on payroll data from pay period 18 ending 20 August 1993:

9 Staff employees: i
Average salary and benefits / pay period $2,730.74
Number of Staff employees x9
Total cost per pay period » $24,576.66
Est staff employee cost to.complete in 5 months:

10 pay periods x $24,576 =$245,576
Est staff employee cost to complete in 6 months:
12 pay periods x $24,576= $294,912

TICs:
Cost based on current DCI /CSI contracts for full time ICs: The estimated fees

range from $4,000 to 5,000 per month. Therefore, the amount of $ 4,500 per IC was

used.

7 ICs @ $4,500 =$31,500 per mth x 5 months= $157,500
71Cs @ $4,500 =$31,500 per mth x 6 months= $189,000
SUMMARY

To complete this review with existing resources within 5 to 6 months the estimated cost
will be as follows:

Five months:
Staff Employees $245,576
ICs $157,500
ae Total $403,076
Six months:
Staff Employees $294,912
ICs $189,000

Total $483,912


13-00000

Cost to accelerate process and complete within 2 1/2 to 3 months.

Per para 5 of memo: It will be necessary to hire an additional 12 ICs :
Estimated cost per IC is $4,500 per mth x12=$ 54,000 x 2.5 mths.=$135,000
Estimated cost per IC is $4,500 per mth x12=$ 54,000 x 3 mths =$162,000
Total estimated cost to complete in 2.5 months:

Existing staff cost for 5 mths = $403,076 @ 1/2 tocomplete in2.5 mths $201,538
Cost of additional 12 ICs $ 135,000

Total to complete in 2.5 mths. $ 336,538
Total estimated cost to complete in 3 months:

Existing staff cost for 6 mths=$483,912 @ 1/2 to complete in 3 mths. $ 241,956

-Costs of additional 12 ICs $ 162,000

Total to complete in 3 mths. $ 403,956


COST COMPARISON

Cost to complete in 5 months using existing staffing $403,076
Cost to complete in 2.5 months using existing staffing and
12 additional ICs $336,538
Cost to complete in 6 months using existing staffing $483,912
Cost to complete in 3 months using existing staffing and
12 additional ICs $403,956

Notes: (1) The estimated cost for existing iS reduced by 50% for the 5 and 6 month
periods to reflect the period of actual use. After the completion of this project, the
existing personnel will likely be assigned to new projects.

(2) The estimated IC$ cost for five months is $135,000 and for six months
$162,000.


13-00000

Fea pia : :
— gt
Seite ety cay At a a op Cay. CEO Mapa det

La Tree - wanting. 2 ches je eos Aber

VS202 Juke. Gre, aT! PYM a

= Saaelne x [2908 = fern

Co Be yc
a STP IR Ce
a - Varel ©

gums: Fen. a. PTE

Ayad  ~ ffegle noe y
2a “Ep pot (Kener) i Bon’
°_Steetresyece Fs, igen. we a

a4



13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

DATE: September 22, 1993

NOTE TO |

SUBJECT: JFK Paper Project

(Helens please pass the following to John Pereira from Dianne Rankin.

"In response to your request, attached is a list of our folks who worked

on the JFK Paper Project. I am glad you are pleased with their support.
interested in knowing that they worked..478 hours overtime

You might be
_-to_ complete this project. Those individuals are: \,

|

END OF Tinspscr —

“Liz x&6801/

Thanks , [Helent

UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

HRG OVERTIME FOR JFK DOCUMENTS

gun 7 - 12 57 hrs.
dun 14 ~ 26 244 hrs.
301 hrs.
Jun 28 - Jul 10 327.5 hrs.
628.5 hrs.
Jul'12 - Jul 24 51. Se
1144.5 hrs.
Jul 25 - Aug 7 508 hrs.
1645.5 hrs.
Aug 8 - Aug 21 480.5 hrs.
2126 hrs.
Aug 22 - Sep 4 8 __hrs.
2134 hrs.
Sep. 5 - Sep 18 56.5 hrs.
2190.5 hrs.
Sep 19 ~- Oct 2 64.5 hrs.

Total 2255 hrs.



13-00000

HRG OVERTIME FOR JFK DOCUMENTS

June 7 - 12 57 hrs.
June 14 - 26 244 hrs.
301 hrs.

June 28 - July 10 327.5 hrs.
628.5 hrs.

July 12 - July 24 516 hrs.
1144.5 hrs.

July 25 - August 7 508 hrs.
1645.5 hrs.
August 8 — August 21 480.5 hrs.
2126 hrs.
August 22 - Sept. 4 8 hrs.
. 2134 hrs.
Sept. 5.- Sept. 18 56.5 hrs.

TOTAL 2190.5 hrs.


13-00000

HRG OVERTIME

June 7 - 12 57 hrs.
June 14 - 26 244 hrs.
: 301 hrs.
June 28 - July 10 327.5 hrs.
628.5 hrs.
July 12 - July 24 516 hrs.
1144.5 hrs.
July 25 - August 7 508 hrs.
1645.5 hrs.
August 8 - August 21 480.5 hrs.
2126 hrs.
August 22 - August 29 8 hrs.

-Total -2134 hrs.


13-00000

HRG OVERTIME

June 7 - 12 57 hrs.

June 14 - 26 244 hrs.
301 hrs.
June 28 - July 10 327.5 hrs.
628.5 hrs.
July 12 - July 24 516 hrs.
1144.5 hrs.
July 25 - August 7 508 hrs.
1645.5 hrs.
August 8 - August 21 480.5 hrs.

Total 2126 hrs.


13-00000

COLLECTIONS
fa ASE IN FULL
2000 8 Sept. 1997

To: C/HRG

Subject: Comments on Gunn Draft “Board Timetable for Review
of CIA Records

I agree with Gunn in the need for a plan and schedule
for completing the JFK project. However, what constitutes
completion needs some clarification. Some of Gunn's
proposals are at odds with our agreements with Marwell,
others are not necessarily the most efficient way of
approaching the file (see my comments below) .

IA Sequester: ion
1. “The 63 boxes”

Record Identification Forms (RIFs) / Identification
Aids: ARRB staff is confused about our process. We are
currently indexing folders that were “unit” indexed (a
single Iden Aid for a folder) and marked Category #1 by ARRB
staff--only seven folders to go. We don't cut the extract
and create the disk for the Staff until boxes are ready to
be reviewed. We can run the extract program and send them
disk anytime. I don't consider this a review issue.

When Marwell approved the “priority 1” folder approach,
I told him we would complete the review in the Fall. We
appear to be on track to complete the review by the end of
October or early November.

Priority Folders 2, 3 and 4: My understanding with
Marwell was that these folders would drop to the end of the
list, after HSCA and Microfilm. To start the review of
these folders in November (to meet 31 Jan 98 deadline) would
divert resources from other activities and reviews. It
would also require additional indexing support-~- there are
still a number of unit indexed folders in these folders.

Open in Full/Release in Full documents: Except for a
few folders in boxes 32/33, the Summers completed the
processing of RIF documents through box 38. Boxes 1-19 (1202
documents/3719 pages) have been sent to ARRB for NARA;
boxes 20-38 will go in the next few weeks). I will need to
discuss with Gunn the rest of the Collection. My suggestion
if the complete the DO review of the RIFs, but delay
processing for now.


13-00000

2. HSCA Staff notes: re-review will be completed this
month (HSCA was Marwell top priority).

The Open in. full HSCA documents are a processing
headache. Our copy has be matched against the originals
currently being held by ARRB. The originals do not have
Iden Aids. This is a time consumer activity.

3. Microfilm

I had planned to start the re-review of the Microfilm
in November (Gunn's date) and his end date (6/30/98) is
beyond what I projected. Designating specific boxes to be
completed by specific dates is not practical. I will
suggest he designate the number of boxes to be completed by
certain dates if he feels he needs milestones.

Issues:

If ARRB insist in our reviewing the Priority 2,3 and 4s
in the hardcopy collections it will slow down the Microfilm
review.

I have had discussion with members of the staff about
doing a “Priority #1” folder review of the Microfilm. I will
recommend that they do so. It ensures that the most
important information is release first and avoids both
staffs getting bogged down in processing marginal documents.

We have to decide on the indexing requirements for the
Microfilm (Gunn is proposing that documents containing
redaction be identified individually -- have NARA numbers) .
Do we:

a) index all documents

b) index only documents with redactions

c) develop an alternative that meets ARRB requirements

but does not include indexing individual documents.

Oswald Microfilm: no problem with Gunn's approach

Working Files

Russ Holmes files. I have a problem with Gunn'
proposal. To index a collection that is primarily duplicates
seems to be a waste of resources. Indexing at the folder
level should suffice for the historians assuming we do not
challenge the designation of the files as assassination
records. New documents would be indexed individually.


To fully index this collection involves a resource cost
not anticipated when we discussed the completion of the
project by October 1968 with Marwell. To begin the review
of these files by 1 October 1998 is not feasible given other
priorities and current resources.

Additional Records and Referrals: no problem as stated.
Could be resource issue if the number continue to increase.
Not addressed in the memo:

Processing of Open in Full documents

Processing of Duplicates

Oswald Security File


13-00000

Ee ogsiesa7 ‘TUE,12:35 FAX 202 724 0457 ARRB

ae

MEMORANDUM

SE f NFO ihn

September 16, 1997 IN THIS DOCUMENT

To: Review Board
* From: T. Jeremy Guin

_ « L Background

The CIA Team has developed a preliminary timetable that we hope will provide a
reasonable framework for completing our review of CIA’s assassination records by
August 1, 1998.1 We are creating this timetable for three purposes:

one ne Te eRe eR

First, to establish our own working target dates to measure Review Board progress
against the mandatory deadline established by the JFK Act.

Second, to provide CLA with our best assessment of the order and scope of our review
so that it can make its own internal judgments on the proper allocation of its resources.
We provided CIA prior drafts of this memo and solicited its specific advice and
suggestions for better ways to accomplish our goals. [We have not asked CIA to
“agree” to these deadlines, but we have encouraged it to provide cameamaii
suggestions on how best to meet the August 1 deadline]

Third, to solicit the Review Board's advice regarding “enforcement” of these (or other) }
targets. Although we surely hope that both the ARRB staff and CIA will be able to meet E
the targets, and although we certainly plan to make all reasonable atcommodations for
problems that no doubt will arise, we nevertheless anticipate that it is possible that CIA
might not be able to keep to these timetables. Thus, we anticipate that there may well
be times when blocks of records scheduled for Board review will not have been fully
processed by CIA. It is our judgment that, in keeping with our commitment to
Congress and to the goals of the JFK Act, we may need to have the Board act on groups
of records for which CIA has not completed its initial review. At the risk of over-

the ARRB staff seeks to be as reasonable and accomunodating as it can on
timetables, provided that any proposed changes are consistent with our obligation to
complete the task. We realize that this review may have resource-allocation _

*By establishing this target date, we will provide ourselves with a two-month |
cushion to handle possible appeals and miscellaneous issues that doubtless will arise.


13-00000

. 09/16/97 TUE. 12:38 FAX 202 724°0487

-2-

-consequences for CIA and we expect to refine this timetable both to minimize the
resource impact and to allow us and the CIA to proceed most efficiently with: the

review. We also take very seriously our commitment to Congress to complete our work - mA :

on schedule. Is the Board prepared to, make decisions on records if CIA has not
la tay ata men ee enhanc aaiae

IL Issues applying to all CIA record groups

’ Records to be opened-in-fulll
During the course of CIA’s review, it frequently identifies records that is e
is prepared to open in full without Board action. Although there is a :
benefit in promptly forwarding such records to NARA, itis less expensive
for CIA to process these records during the summer months.

.. Accordingly, we are prepared to agree with CIA that it may delay. en
processing such records, provided that all such processing of open-in-full
* records will be completed by August 30, 1998.

Duplicates
CIA will continue to identify duplicates and may process them after all
other documents have been reviewed and transferred to NARA. If the
ARRB is shown that any given record is a duplicate, CIA need not
complete the processing before September 30, 1998.

IIL. CIA Record Groups

A. Oswald 201 File (17 boxes)
- current status:
review completed (with a few minor exceptions)

B. CIA Sequestered Collection

1. “The 63 boxes”
- current status: ©
The ARRB staff has completed a survey ofthe 68 boxes (on the
folder level) and has assigned each folder a relevance priority on a
1 to4 scale, CIA has completed its declassification review of
roughly 66% of the priosity 1 folders.

The ARRB Staff has completed its own review of approximately
50% of the priority 1 records and those records have been (or
shortly will) be voted on by the Board. :

:
t
‘


13-00000

. 09/26/97 TUE 12:36 FAX 202 724 0457 ARRB

‘

~ target dates: -
Completion of final review of 63 boxes by January 31, 1998. :

- time line: .
9/30/97 box 40 (priority 1) *
10/31/97 box 48 (priority 1)

11/30/97 box 56 (priority 1)

12/31/97: _ box63 (priority 1)

1/31/98 all priority2,3 and 4

2. HSCA Staff notes (originally interfiled in the 63 boxes)
~ status:
Record Identification Forms prepared for all documents. CLA
review is 80% complete. ARRB staff completes its review shortly
after receiving records froin CIA.

~ target dates: :
Complete Board voting by November 18, 1997.

3. Microfilm (72 boxes)
- current status:
CIA identified approximately 33% of these records as NBR. ARRB
staff has reviewed all CIA NBR designations, and has identified
additional records that should be reviewed by the Board.

The ARRB Staff will discuss with the CIA the preparation of Record
Identification Forms (RIFs or “IDEN aids” in CIA terminology) and
develop a plan that will best facilitate review? .

~ target dates: :
CIA begins review by November 1, 1997 and completes review by
July 1, 1998.

Complete Board determinations by July 31, 1998.

*The ARRB staff has.no objection to the records being identified entirely on the
folder level provided that all records in the folder are open-in-full. If there are records
in which the CIA is requesting redactions, those records must be identified :
individually. The remainder of open-in-full records may still be identified with one RIF
as being the contents of the same folder.

|

cre

+ spe eratette ee


13-00000

Bee

~ tentative time line:
11/30/97. s;boxes 1-6
12/31/97 * Boxes 7-13 © i
1/31/98 boxes 14-19 ‘
. - 2/28/98 | boxes 20-25
ee eee ces 3/31/98 boxes 26-31 & 44-45 =
: : Seteeaee (Boxes 32-43 contain LHO’s 201 file, which will
be treated as a special case.) oat
4/30/98 boxes 46-51 .
5/31/98 boxes 52-62
* 6/30/98 boxes 63-72

4. . Microfilm copy of Oswald 201 (approximately 12 boxes) toe
- issue: : i

* "The vast majority (if not all) Oswald Microfilm records are
duplicates of records the Board has already reviewed under the JFK

. Act. To the extent that the records previously have been reviewed,

___ there is little value in re-reviewing the records. The ARRB staff will
survey the Microfilm 201 in an effort to identify any additional
records that have not already been acted upon by the Board. All
xecords not previously acted upon by the Board will be so,
designated, P'RIP wll be prepared, and they will be gent for Board

. action. The remaining Microfilm 201 will be transferred to the JFK
Collection at NARA and opened in fullin 2017. _

onmeene 31

i Skat ine compicied tinsel sary and hes thee far dete 20
records in the 201 Microfilm that are not already in the JEK

green Pete NS

Cc “Working Files” (including “Russ Holmes” papers, etc.)
~ status:
No Record Identification Forms have been prepared. ARRB staff
has conducted a general survey.

ae dates:
Work to commence by CIA on October 1, 1997. CIA should
prepare Record Identification Forms for all records by January 1,
1998. Completion of review and Board determinations by March
31, 1998.



TUE 12:36 FAX 202 124 0457

-5-

~strategy:
The “we working files” is a group of records that was assembled at
CIA by Russ Holmes.. Although he was not'asked

to create this separate records group, he did so in ofder to facilitate

his work and, perhaps, to satisfy his own curiosity. The group _
... Contains many original records (copies of some of which are
already in the collection) and it includes some records of which we
are aware of no other copies. It is the best-organized collection of 7;
assassination records held by CIA. Its value as a reference tool is
greatest as a collection. Therefore, though the file contains many
duplicates of records found in the JFK collection, the ARRB staff
recommends that it be preserved as a single group. Duplicates and
open-in-full documents should be treated in the same manner as
they are in the rest of the JFK Collection. As.with the microfilm
from the Sequestered Collection, the ARRB staff has no objection to
the records being identified on the folder level provided that all
records iri the folder are open-in-full. If there are records in which
CIA is requesting redactions, those records must be identified
individually. The remainder of open in full records may still be
identified with one RIF as being the contents of the same folder.

D. Additional Records
~ Status: .
Research, requests, and negotiations continue to identify and
include additional CIA records for the JFK collection.

Oswald Office of Security File. As a result of an ARRB staff request
for additional information and records, CIA located portions of a _
previously undisclosed Office of Security fileon Lee Harvey -
Oswald. This seven-volume file, of which six parts have been
. located, contains two volumes of press clippings, third agency
material on Oswald, a copy of Oswald's address book, and Marina
Oswald's INS file. In the upcoming months CIA will begin to
review and process these materials.

- time line:
Completion by July 31, 1998.

~ strategy:
Continue current efforts.

i


13-00000

4. HISCA referrals (Numbered files, Security Classified tei etc.)
- status:

most of these records have been reviewed. ‘The database suggests
that a percentage of them has slipped through the cracks,
- target date:
ee 1998.
- strategy:

Continue to clarify the status of records. ela Eee)
records. .

2 Osher reterrale (TI, Chewth Commie, LBJ Library, JPK Library, etc.)
~ status and strategy:

Records will be coordinated and reviewed on a case by case basis.

. TJGes\...\cia\timetabl.wpd fea oe
4207 -

|
|

t


13-00000

ER 97-4602

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

October 28, 1997
Mr. David W. Carey - RELEASE OF CiA INFORMATI
Executive Director IN THIS DOCUMENT ON

I would like to congratulate you on your new appointment at the Agency and. wish you
the very best of success in the difficult challenges that lie ahead.

As you probably are aware, the Assassination Records Review Board has been
mandated by Congress and the President to oversee the declassification and transfer to

. the National Archives of all records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.

During the past three years we have received excellent cooperation from CIA in regard
to the processing of the relevant Agency records. From our perspective, this is due in
significant part to the work of John Pereira, Chief of the Historical Review Group, and
J. Barry Harrelson, who has shouldered the extremely complicated, burdensome, and
frequently thankless task of overseeing the project. Both of them have proved to be
superb representatives of the Agency. We also very much appreciated receiving a
strong message of support from your predecessor, Nora Slatkin, who advised us in a
meeting on October 16, 1996, of her full support for the project and her willingness to
commit the necessary Agency resources to complete the project.

Because the Review Board is now in the final twelve months of its statutory tenure, I
thought it would be appropriate to advise you of our goals for the upcoming year. It is
our wish to be able to state in our Final Report to the President and to Congress that
CIA has made all reasonable attempts to locate, review, and declassify all available
records on the Kennedy assassination. We'would like the Review Board to be able to
assure the American people that the Agency has been fully cooperative in this
enormous and difficult task, and that the Agency no longer retains any “secret” files on
the assassination. In addition, we are obligated to keep Congress informed, ona
monthly basis, of the status of our work and any difficulties that would interfere with
our ability to achieve our objective.

Although many important strides have been made to further our goals, we nevertheless
perceive that the pace of review and declassification of Agency records will need to be



13-00000

Mr. David W. Carey
October 28, 1997
Page2

accelerated in order for us to succeed. We must keep in mind that the goal includes
. teviewing, processing, and transferring to the custody of the National Archives all
identified assassination records by September 1,1998. (We do not perceive that
duplicate copies of such records need be transferred by September 1.) Many time-
consuming difficulties inherent in this project have been overcome, and we perceive
that the pace of review is accelerating. Nevertheless, we wanted to signal to you our
concern that, unless the pace of review increases further, we may not be on target to
Stat atl oe ae ae eee :

It is our firm intention to.complete our task within the congressionally mandated time
limit. If CIA is unable to pre-review and process its records consistent with completion
of this task, the Review Board will vote to release-in-full all relevant CIA records and
mandate that cugtody be transferred to the National Archives in a timely way. We
sincerely hope that it will not be necessary for the Board to make wholesale decisions on
unreviewed records and we will be pleased to work with the Agency to see that such a
, Step is unnecessary. But we are prepared to make such decisions to the extent they are
" required to fulfill our own responsibilities. Although it is our perception that CLA may.
wish to devote additional human resources to this project, we of course leave such
decisions to the sound judgment of knowledgeable CIA officials. _

We therefore strongly urge the Agency to take all appropriate steps to complete its ©
review of records in an orderly and systematic manner. To the extent that the Agency is
able to satisfy appropriate deadlines, there will be no need for us to resort to any
unfortunate — but potentially necessary ~ measures to complete our own obligations to
Congress, the President, and send American people.

Ifyou would find it helpful, the Review Board members and I would be pleased to
discuss these issues with you or others at the Agency.

cc: Assassination Records Review Board


13-00000

ne 2. CSELLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
2060 31 October 1997

Request for Additional Funds for the JFK Assassination
Records Review Project, through 31 September 1998.

Reference: Ltr. to Executive Director form J. Jeremy Gunn,
Executive Director, Assassination Records Review Board
(ARRB), copy attached.

Background.

1. The ARRB will go out of business on 31 September
1998. Before that date, it has a statutory obligation to
complete its review of all records held by the U.S.
Government which relate to the assassination of President
Kennedy, determine those which are relevant to the
assassination story and ensure that the same are transferred
to the National Archives. As the board begins its final
year, it has become increasingly concerned about the pace of
the review and transfer process. Referent letter is the
latest of a number of exchanges dealing with that concern.

2. CSI/HRG has carefully reviewed its current position
with respect to its ability to meet the deadlines imposed
and has concluded that it cannot fully do so without
additional resources, at least through 30 September 1998.
This conclusion is based in large measure on three changed
circumstances:

A. The ARRB has recently exercised its statutory
authority and designated additional CIA records to be within
the JFK collection (to date approximately twenty cubic feet
or 40,000 pages). Additional records may be identified as
the ARRB staff continues its review of Agency files.

B. Over the past three months we have received an
increase in the number of “Assassination Records” referred
from third agencies which include both Agency documents held
by another agency or third agency documents which must be
reviewed because they contain CIA information; and

C. The ARRB itself has established a deadline which was
not anticipated. All agencies had understood that the
review process and ARRB action would have to be completed by
30 September, but it was widely assumed that final
processing and transfer of the documents to the National
Archives could occur after that date. However, the Board has
now mandated that all relevant records which are not
duplicates must be transferred to custody of the National
Archives before it goes out of business.



13-00000

Additional Resources Requested.

3. The following estimate is based on our understanding
of the ARRB requirements at this time.

A. Review of records: equivalent of 2 man-years (3

contractors -- average daily contractor cost
$270);

B. Preparation of documents for National Archives:

equivalent of 1.5 man-years (2 contractors --
average daily contractor cost $180);
C. Indexing: approximately one-man year of overtime
($25 hourly rate);

D. Reproduction: approximately one-man year of

overtime ($25 hourly rate).

Estimated cost FY98: $300,000


13-00000

NOTE FOR:
FROM:
OFFICE:
DATE:
SUBJECT:

| passed to the EXDIR the information

SECRET

Brian S. Latell

DCI
11/05/97 07:27:26 PM
CS! Resource Request regarding JFK

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE AS SANITIZED

cL By:(705641
‘CL REASON: Section 1.5C
DECL ON: X1

DRY FRM: COV 2-87

rovided regarding the possible resource implications

of the letter from the Assassination oo Executive Director, T. Jeremy Gunn, and the
possibility that you will ask’ that some of the $5.5 million additional money Congress has added for
declassification be allocated to this task (and perhaps also the Korea project). | also showed him Gunn's
letter. The EXDIR asks that you provide him the following information:

; Whatis the size of the JFK declassification problem? How much work remains to be done?

How many people do you have working on the JFK project now?

What difference would X more make?

cc:

Sent on 5 November 1997 at 07:27:26 PM

SECRET


Work ae

21 November 1997

FOR: D/EXDIR

JFK PROJECT

The following is in response to your request for a
statement “reaffirming” CSI's commitment to apply available
resources to complete the processing of records related to
the assassination of President Kennedy.

As Jeremy Gunn stated in his letter of 28 October to the
EXDIR, the pace of reviewing JFK-related documents is
accelerating. He also stated that the JFK Board has
established 1 September 1998 as the deadline for all
agencies to finish the processing of records and transfer
them to the National Archives.

In order to complete all the necessary tasks required by
the Board and meet the deadline, we will clearly need to
increase the resources now dedicated to JFK. There are a
growing number of requests from the Board to review records
from both CIA and other agencies, to search files for
additional information, and to brief the Board and its
staff. At present, one staff officer and 13 part time
independent contractors are devoted to JFK. In addition, we
draw on a small CSI computer unit for support and share
overtime employees who perform indexing and document copying
for the Center. .

In the absence of additional resources being provided
from elsewhere, CSI (or OIM) will need to shift resources
from other projects to JFK for all tasks to be done on time.
One option is to interrupt other declassification projects,
such as that on DI finished intelligence on the Soviet
Union, and the Guatemala covert action, and assign reviewers
and others working on those projects to JFK. The moves

’ would need to happen in the next few weeks.

Another important consideration is that the
directorates, particularly the DO, will need to increase
their resources to keep pace with HRG. These resources are
required to coordinate declassification of records and to
prepare responses for requests from the Board for additional
information and files.

Whatever resource adjustments are made to bolster the
effort on JFK, there will still be an unpredictable factor
that could require a surge in additional resources later.
This stems from the potentially large number of documents
from the FBI and other agencies containing CIA equities that


13-00000

the Board could ask us to review. There is a good chance
that such documents will surface near the September
deadline, which would leave little time to complete the
processing.


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

10 Dec 97

NOTE FOR: Ed Cohen
Jim Oliver

FROM: John Pereira, HRG
SUBJECT: JFK/Resource Priority

Attached are four items that provide background on the
issues that have been discussed with Dave Carey and Gina
Genton with regard to the Agency's need to. commit sufficient
resources to declassify JFK records.

The items include an exchange of letters between Carey
and the JFK Board, a statement prepared by me at Gina's
request, and a note reflecting congressional concern. Gina
is being briefed on the last item today.

Aside from providing you with background, the items also
present a sense of why it is important that we assure that
the resources i.e., independent contractors remain
available so that the Agency meets the deadline for
declassifying the JFK documents.

John Pereira



13-00000

199t 6. carm CU RS ae oe

conrad INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

21 November 1997
| CSI 97-536
|

Dr. T. Jeremy Gunn

Executive Director

Assassination Records
Review Board

600 E Street, NW

Washington, DC 20530

Dear Dr. Gunn: : |

i
Thank you for your [letter of 28 October in which you
outline the Assassination Records Review Board’s goals for
the coming year. I appreciate the complimentary remarks you
made about the “excell cooperation” that CIA has been
providing to the Board.

You raised a conc that the Agency may not be able to
increase sufficiently the pace of the review process to meet
the 1 September 1998 deatiline for completing the trarisfer of
records to the National ‘chives. You also expressed the
view that if any records/ are not reviewed by the deadline,
the Board will vote to release them in full and mandate that
custody be transferred the National Archives.

You can be assured t we are committed to taking all
Mecessary steps to meet our statutory obligation to review
all of the Agency‘’s assaysination-related materials. It -is
important that a proper review of all relevant records he
done. This will allow to recommend to the Board what
information warrants continued protection.

a
We appreciate the gteat responsibility that Congress
and. the President have given to the Board to inform the
American people about thq assassination. We share the
Board‘s goal of declassifiying and releasing the relevant
records to the fullest tent possible.

Please convey my regards to Chairman Tunheim and the
other Board members, and jassure them of our continued
cooperation.

Sincerely,

| dtllo.C
wid carey 0 ()



ER 97-4602

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
i: (202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

October 28, 1997

Mr. David W. Carey
Executive Director
Agency

Central Intelligence
Washington, DC 20505
Re: Completing the Review of NK Asmatinetion Reconda
Dear Mr. Carey:

I would like to congratulate you on your new appointment at the Agency and wish you
the very best of success in the difficult challenges that lie ahead.

As you probably are aware, the Assassination Records Review Board has been
mandated by Congress and the President to oversee the declassification and transfer to
the National Archives of all records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.
During the past three years we have received excellent cooperation from CIA in regard.
to the processing of the relevant Agency records. From our perspective, this is due in
significant part to the work of John Pereira, Chief of the Historical Review Group, and
J. Barry Harrelson, who has shouldered the extremely complicated, burdensome, and
frequently thankless task of overseeing the project. Both of them have proved to be
superb representatives of the Agency. We also very much appreciated receiving a
strong message of support from your predecessor, Nora Slatkin, who advised us ina
meeting on October 16, 1996, of her full support for the project and her willingness to
commit the necessary Agency resources to complete the project.

Because the Review Board is now in the final twelve months of its statutory tenure, I
thought it would be appropriate to advise you of our goals for the upcoming year. It is
our wish to be able to state in our Final Report to the President and to Congress that
CIA has made all reasonable attempts to locate, review, and declassify all available
records on the Kennedy assassination. We'would like the Review Board to be able to
assure the American people that the Agency has been fully cooperative in this
enormous and difficult task, and that the Agency no longer retains any “secret” files on
the assassination. In addition, we are obligated to keep Congress informed, ona
monthly basis, of the status of our work and any difficulties that would interfere with
our ability to achieve our objective.

Although many important strides have been made to further our goals, we nevertheless
perceive that the pace of review and declassification of Agency records will need to be

Boano Memaens: Joha R. Tunhelm, Chair + Hency F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall + William L. Joyce + Aana K. Nelson
Exacuriva Omactor: Osvid G. Marwell


Mr. David W. Carey
October 28, 1997
Page2

accelerated in order for us to succeed. We must keep in mind that the goal includes
. reviewing, processing, and transferring to the custody of the National Archives all
identified assassination records by September 1,998. (We do not perceive that
duplicate copies of such records need be transferred by September 1.) Many time-
consuming difficulties inherent in this project have been overcome, and we perceive
that the pace of review is accelerating. Nevertheless, we wanted to signal to you our
concern that, unless the pace of review increases further, we may not be on target to
satisfy what I hope 'to be our common objective. -

It is our firm intention to complete our task within the congresdionally mandated time
limit. If CIA is unable to pre-review and process its records consistent with completion
of this task, the Review Board will vote to release-in-full all relevant CIA records and
mandate that custody be transferred to the National Archives in a timely way. We
sincerely hope that it will not be necessary for the Board to make wholesale decisions on
unreviewed records and we will be pleased to work with the Agency to see that such a
step is unnecessary. But we are prepared to make such decisions to the extent they are

to fulfill our own responsibilities. Although it is our perception that CLA may
wish to devote additional human resources to this project, we of course leave such
decisions to the sound judgment of knowledgeable CIA officials. :

We therefore strongly urge the Agency to take all appropriate steps to complete its ©
review of records in an orderly and systematic manner. To the extent that the Agency is
able to satisfy appropriate deadlines, there will be no need for us to resort to any
unfortunate -- but potentially necessary — measures to complete our own obligations to
Congress, the President, and the American people.

If you would find it helpful, the Review Board members and I woukd be pleased to
discuss these issues with you or others at the Agency.

cc: Assassination Records Review Board


13-00000

’ ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk of J. Barry Harrelson

Learn a. 1

NOTE FOR: Lee Strickland @ DA male ei a
John Pereira @ DCI R EI E
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson ASE IN FULL
OFFICE: OIMJHRP 2000
DATE: 01/29/98 11:43:38 AM -
SUBJECT: JFK Collection and Resources
Staffing FY 1997: 1 Staff employee, 13 ICs, 3 summer employees
‘3 ADP contractors
Current Staffing | FY 1998: 1 full time staff employee, 1 part-time staff employee
20 ICs, 3 ADP contractors

Additional FY 98 Staffing needed: Alcs

The FY 98 above does not include: ‘1 man-year (est) of overtime reproduction support
~ ‘1 man-year (est) of overtime indexing support

‘5 summer employees or equivalent
Examples of JFK Records:
Oswald 201 File 25,000 pages
Sequestered Collection: 30,000 Pages of HSCA material

100,000 Pages of hardcopy material (from the investigation)

72 Reels (160,000 pages) of Microfilm including:

26 Reels of 201 Files

5 Reels of Personnel Files
13 Reels of Cuban related material
plus reels on DO organization, project and operation
files, Mexico City Station files, Nosenko files, and
duplicates of material in the hardcopy collection.

All figures are approximate; | have nat included working files (20+ boxes) and referrals.

ce:
Sent on 29 January 1998 at 11:43:38 AM

Follow wp Atscussec. ual Lee A Pech 1[20fas.
yx need + a * dope wh 4 marths |
cc S&T i

Raduy \nes ach cetera!

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

4 February 1998
MEMORANDUM FOR: John Pereira @ OCI
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer
OFFICE: OIM/HRP
SUBJECT: Additional JFK Resources
REFERENCE: Previous discussions with you and Lee Strickland

As we discussed, the JFK Project has an immediate need for "IA" type support over the next four months (Feb-May/June). |
estimate that we need at least the equivalent of four persons, four days @ week or 272 work days. Based on the figures provided by
Rich Warshaw ($27 @ hr), the cost will be approximately $59,000 to cover the four months. Unless we receive the five requested

“summer onlys". we will need an additional $70,000 (325 work days) for 1A support to complete those project tasks which must
completed by 1 September.

‘There is also a need for additional overtime indexing support. | estimate we will need an additional 2 or 3 indexers to keep
pace with the reviewers. Does OIM have any indexers wha would be interested in working on the JFK project?

ce:
Sent on 4 February 1998 at 09:22:09 AM

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

6 February 1998
MEMORANDUM FOR: Lee S. Strickland @ DA
FROM: John F. Pereira
OFFICE: CSI/HRP
‘SUBJECT: Additional JFK Resources
REFERENCE: IMMEDIATE REQUEST

‘We request your approval to add short-term IC resources to the JFK effort immediately as outlined in Barry Harrelson's request below.
Funds would be needed to reimburse ADD.

This request has taken on additional urgency, because the Board has returned to us 700 documents that need to be checked and
Prepared quickly for release to NARA. (Each month, additional batches of documents are returned to us.) As | mentioned earlier, we have
talked with Warshaw, who is prepared to provide the IA resources (contractors) once we have agreed to reimburse him.

Original Text of J. Barry Harrelson

Original Text of J. Barry Harrelson
4 February 1998
4 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: John Pereira
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer
OFFICE: OIM/HRP
SUBJECT: Additional JFK Resources
REFERENCE: Previous discussions with you and Lee Strickland

As we discussed, the JFK Project has an immediate need for "IA" type support over the next four months (Feb-May/June). 1
estimate that we need at least the equivalent of four persons, four days @ week or 272 work days. Based on the figures provided by
Rich Warshaw ($27 @ hr], the cost will be approximately $59,000 to cover the four months. Unless we receive the five requested
“summer onlys". we will need an additional $70,000 (325 work days) for !A support to complete those project tasks which must
completed by 1 September.

There is also a need for additional overtime indexing support. 1 estimate we will need an additional 2 or 3 indexers to keep
pace with the reviewers. Does OIM have any indexers who would be interested in working on the JFK project?

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

OFFICE:
SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Original Text of|
Original Text 01

From the Desk of

" FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

11 February 1998

is @DA
DA
john F. Pereira

jain
oIM

Action: Review SAIC Contract Costs for JFK

Lee et. al: | have asked Jeffry to send us the detailed cost breakout by month. Now what!
‘need from all of you is what level of effort you think you will need beyond 30 Sep, whether you

will need surge support to make Sept. deadline, etc. | also need to review this amount against
$$ to be transterred from for FY 98 to make sure we can cover the bill. Thx, Nancy

From the Desk of | I}

DCIISMS Customer Service Team - Phone'46060 ’

~ Boel

FROM:

OFFICE:

DATE: 02/11/98 11:29:58 AM
SUBJECT: SAIC Contract Costs
Hello to Al-

I've received an estimate trom SAI€ for contract costs for our next option period, 1 Apr 98 - 31 Mar 99. | wanted to get this information
to you early for planning purposes. | stress that these figures are estimates because we would like to change our contract vehicle from
the current Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF] to a Cost-Plus-Award-Fee (CPAF) contract. With the current CPFF contract, we have very little
leverage to ensure quality service. Although we have not had any problems with SAIC to date, we would feel more comfortable with a
CPAF vehicle. SAIC has not been notified yet of our desire to change.

We currently pay an 8% fee on our CPFF contract. Because, in switching to CPAF contract, the contractor assumes more risk, our fee
offer will probably go up to 9% or 9.5% (our original position will be to remain at 8%). In your planning you may want to add the

difference to give you a grand total.

Right now the pricing, broken down by office for 1 Apr 98 - 31 Mar 99, is:

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Y


13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

CSt: $48,630

ARG/OIM: = $437,665 °*

Me: $360,251

**(Wancy} If you'd like @ breakdown of your costs, please let me know.

OF L/Contracts will begin negotiations with SAIC sometime this month. In the past we have incrementally funded our contract so | don't

expect we'll need the total up front. That being said, Contracts will probably require 50% commitments from each office (if you want ta
fully fund the effort, please feel free). I'l keep you posted as | receive more information.

Llatig

ce: @nc
oCl .
Sent on 11 Fenriary 11:29:58 AM

ce:
Sent on 11 February 1998 at 04:14:40 PM

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


e ministrative - Internal Use Only
CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL 3 June 1998
2000 ia

Talking Points For Meeting of the Historical Review Panel

Subject: JFK Assassination Records Review Project

Background (1992 ~- 1995)

The setting up of the Historical Review Program
coincided with growing interest in Congress to require
agencies to declassify records related to the assassination
of President Kennedy.

a. DCI Gates decided to start declassification process
before Congress passed legislation

b. DCI testified in Congress about “Openness Policy”
(May 1992)

--First folder of OSWALD 201 (also know as the
pre-assassination file) released

c. JFK Act passed late 1992:

--Called for Presidential-appointed Assassination
Records Review Board (ARRB).

d. First two years the Program focused on JFK with two
major releases (August 1993 and August 1994)

-- Approximately 227,000 pages from CIA files were
released in full or in sanitized form

-- In addition reviewed material at NARA (Warren
Committee), SSCI (Church Committee) and Ford.
Library (Rockefeller Commission) plus numerous
referrals from other Agencies (FBI,STATE,Army,etc.)

e. The Assassination Records Review Board did not
actually begin reviewing documents until May 1995.

~-Reasons: Delays in appointment. of members and

hiring of staff and the time required to obtain
security clearances

Administrative - Internal Use Only

2 eta bebe


Administrative - Internal Use Only

ARRB (1995 to present)

Board's interpretation of the law created a time--
consuming, labor intensive review process: id

All sanitized records had be reviewed by the Board
and action taken on each postponed item.

Specific evidence of current harm was required for
each postponement.

a. HRP began a. re-review of the material previously

release.

b,

-- Approximately 80% of the 227,000 pages release
in 1993/1994 contained deletions.

-- Resources added to JFK project to meet Board's
monthly deadlines (reviewers borrowed from other
projects.

Significant Agency resources required to prepare

evidence to defend recommended postponements.

EXAMPLES :

-- Identification of “specific harm” involves
extensive research by DO and other components;
time cost comparable to court legations

-- Frequently only a few documents or words are
at issue.

-- Usually the information is marginal or not
germane to the assassination story. =

* It took over two weeks of staff time, numerous
meetings, and at least two Board sessions to protect
the specific location of an Agency's facility in a few
documents. The release of the location would have added
nothing to the JFK assassination story.

* 100s of hours have been expended in research to
protect approximately 2000 names of agency employees
and assets that appear in the material.

Administrative - Internal Use Only


Administrative - Internal Use Only
c. ARRB Special requests/searches for additional
records have added to the overall cost ofthe project.

-- 34 written requests, some requiring screening large
blocks of records from the archives including files

Office of the DDCI and DDP files for the JFK time-frame

(1959-64) in search of additional records.

-- Others require extensive research such as checking
old financial and travel records.

d. (Summer 1997) Additional resources added to the JFK
project as a result of changes in ARRB's review process that
greatly increased the Board's ability to act on documents.

-- Dramatic increase in the number of documents
acted on by Board each month:

March 1997 - 92 documents 7:
March 1998 - 1281 documents

e. Board receives extension through FY 1998; mandated
completion of review by September 1998.

~- Starting in December 1997, reviewers (11)
shifted from other projects to JFK to meet the
Board's deadline;

ice. ADP and support staff also increased;

-- currently over 35 FTE dedicated to the JFK
review project.

£. Project does not end in September; significant
amount of work preparing duplicates. for. NARA

Current Status of JFK Records Review =
Agency Files: Reviewed over 300,000 pagés
Released approximately 230,000 pages

Referrals: Approximately 95,000 pages

from other agencies, NARA, Congress
Re-review: approximately 80% complete
New material: Duplicate check 2/3 complete

{Lee -- I will have a more detailed breakdown at the
meeting]

Administrative - Internal Use Only
