104-10074-10346 eee = i feyaiey pereceae

¥: ATTACHMENT TO: £17705
SERDET

May 3, 1973
’ ;
A reliable source has advised that on ~
: April 19, 1973 Mr. Dean SAUNDERS and Mr. SHEN, Shing- S =
Ping, both of Oklahoma, advised that they would visit :

commercial representatives of the People's Republic of
China (P.R.C.). Embassy in Ottawa on April 26. According —
1 to source, the Embassy representatives were interested
in petroleum coke of Canoco (ph) Co. in Texas and
- telephone equipment and technology of the Company that
SHEN is employed with. Source learned that SHEN would
bring the desired information to the Embassy.

2. Source later learned that SHEN and SAUNDERS
arrived in Ottawa on April 25 and arranged to visit the
Embassy on April 26. According to source, SHEN had
brought some material for the Embassy officials perusal,
however, SHEN would have to return same.

3. * Source stated that on April 27, SHEN and an
Embassy official discussed the Western Electronic Co.,
U.S.A. (place unknown) which is interested in doing
business with the P.R.C. Source advised that SHEN nad
been requested by the Embassy official to prepare
information on the comparison of products, quantities,

etc.
2 : .
Ge (96 26,24 Qos (92-3
oepealay TO CIA
my oe Oe ground Use Onl
@ fp i. 1 a i Do Not Reproduce :
PPE ET
_-

Vey


26 April 73°

would visit . Fae on 4 May 73 to discuss a
visa. Source learned that HERSHEY nad indicated
to Eubassy Officials that he had been born in
the P.R.C. and thet he was a good friend of the
Chinese pecple..,

Dudley if.: TONE, :
Professor Physics, Aahurst, Mass.
visa enguiry :

Mr. Harrison FOREMAN, Kew Yor‘, N.Y.
had been advised that permission had been received
for his deughter to visit tne P.R.C.

Jan BARRIS of the U.S.-China’Comittee New York
would: forward to the assy, the list of names
for the second delegation to visit the P.R.C.
in dune 1973. .

Dr. .(fnu) SCHAEFFER of California State College,
Borthridge, Californie :
enquiry regarding a delegation's visit to the

Harshal EAPLAM, } New School of Social Research, Wew
Yori nad visas graated for himself and his wife to
visit.the P.R.C. KAFLA! would be visiting Frank
CGS and Soloman ADLER presumably in the P.R.C.
KAPLAN had discussed his schedule with COZ and COS
would be away at tne end of May 1973 and ADLER
would be there for several months, KAPL.AI there-
fore wished to visit the P.2.C. in September, 1973.

Source learned that Zlaine Ba of Oakland,
California had received a letter from WO Chun
(Attache of P.R.C. Sabassy) and that BROW nad
replied.

QrRINE SY .

