# 104-10009-10195

## Page 1

104-10009-10195

UNCLASSIFIED C

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

TERNAL "f

JENONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

• CON DENTIAL C

SECRET

EXTENSION.

Arthur a pooler

CI/R&A

10: (Officer designation

POGIN

bwilding):

and

Mr.

D.E. Pratt

C/CI/R&A

DATE:

"RECEIVED FORWARDED

15M72

15/5

ДР

2.

3.

Mr.

R. Rocca

DC/CI Staff.

4.

16 MAY 1972

V.

5.

Mr.

Karamessines, 1 9 MAY 1972

DDP - 3 C 2016

6.

7. Mr. Helms

22 MAY 1972

1:0601

8.

8.

OF/R+A

io.

11:

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

6 0 USE PREVIOU

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE.

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to them. Drew a line across column after each comment.)

good job

Document Number 1057-947 R

for FOlA Review on SEP 1976

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

....:.

SECRET

DD/P 22-2310

15 MAY 1972

Bx: 1625/2

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA

: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT

: Release of Documents Furnished to the

President's Commission by the Central

Intelligence Agency

On Monday, & May 1972, Mr. Arthur Dooley visited

Congressman Richard Ichord to show him the exhibits he

requested and to

answer any questions. Mr. Ichord is

Chairman of the liouse Committee on Internal Security.

It was quickly apparent that he knew very little about

the Oswald case,

and that he had been misled by Bernard

Fensterwald, or.

regarding the extent of CIA's coverage

of Oswald when he was in Mexico Citv. Mr. Ichord ex-

amined the

documents and raised a number of points

which were

answered candidly and without reservation.

He thanked us for easing his mind and said that we could

consider the matter closed. Mr. Ichord was well-disposed

toward

this Agency from the

onset and assured us that

anything said or shown to him would be held in strict

confidence. A more detailed memorandum is attached.

Deputy Chief

Counter Intelligence Staff

1 Attachment, A/S

Document Number

1057-947R

for FOlA Review on

SEP 1976

SECRET

GRO:P 7

Exeteded iro., automatle

downgrading and

declass busier

00031276.3940

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

C

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey Oswald Case: Briefing of Congressman

Richard Ichord,

May

1972

1. Mr. Joseph O'Neill, Office of the Legislative

Counsel, presented Mr. Arthur Dooley, who furnished the

exhibits

requested by

the Congressman, and answered his

questions as follows:

2. Mr. Ichord said he was concerned over one aspect

of the

Cswald Investigation from

the standpoint of his

committee. He wanted to know if "during CIA's investigation

of Oswald when he was in Mexico" we developed any evidence

of a conspiratorial

relationship between the Soviets and

Oswald either

through our coverage of the Emhassv or

outside meetings. He specifically referred to soviet

consular officials Pavel Antonovich Yatskov and Valeriy

Vladimirovich Kostikov, one or both of whom Oswale

contacted at the Soviet Embassy. (Both Yatskov and

Kos tikov

vere identified in the Commission's Report as consular

officials and KGB

did

representatives.) I told him that CIA

not have Oswald under investigation when he was in

Mexico City: directed his attention to the pertinent

exhibit; and explained that the KGB affiliations of the

two soviets were supplied by CIA experts who were aware

of their activities and not by anything said or indicated

by Oswald in the evidence compiled by us. Mr. Ichord

examined the exhibit, noted that Oswald's short conversations

only related to securing visas; indicated that he had been

misinformed; and said that he had no further questions to

ask on this point.

3. He said that his question was sparked by Bernard

-ensterwald, or. a tormer constituent, about whom he

knew very little when he reauested

the documents. since

then he has learned of Fensterwald's dubious credentials

as an expert on the assassination and of his association

with Jim Garrisson and others of questionable repute.

I detailed our own difficulties with

Fensterwald, his

Insistence that ve are hiding something, and how, as

xecutive Director of the Committee to Investicate

Assassinations, he has been pressing us to release

our

classified documents under threat of invoking the

Freedom of Information Act.

SEGRET

Thou 1

Escluded trom atiomatta

downgrading and

declassites let

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

- 2.

4. At Mr. Ichord's request, I gave him a complete

rundown on how CIA learned of Oswald's presence in

Mexico,

and the circumstances surrounding the photo of the

unknown man which was taken in front of the Soviet Embassy.

I specified

and

refuted the assorted allegations regarding

i Care one and Tato mare ten enor tell Lane ,

Jim Garrisson,

and later Bernard Fenstervald,

volunteered his name. One of Garrisson's charges was that

Oswald

a CIA agent and that we cut hin out of the

picture. I took the occasion to stress that Oswald was

not a CIA agent and that we never had anything to do with

5. I mentioned that when the President's Commission

came into existence Mr.

Helms issued specific instructions

to cooperate fully with the Commission and to give it

complete access to any information bearing

on the assassina-

tion; that Commission members, at Mr. Helm's invitation

visited our Mexico City station for an on-the-scene

briefing and inspection. I told him

that we have not

released exhibits relating to Oswald's visits to the

and Cuban Embassies, because the

sources of the above

information are extremely sensitive and

still productive.

Mr. Ichord fully agreed on this score and complimented us

on the extent of our coverage.

f. Mr. Ichord asked what steps CIA was taking to

declassify its other documents. I told him of the required

five year cycle (one coming un

shortly), the review

process, our interim releases,

and CIA's desire to release

as quickly as the need for protecting them subsides.

I pointed out that most of our material consists of "nut

complaints", rumors, gossip, etc; which have no security

significance per se

but could be embarassing to innocent

persons; disclose a productive and friendly foreign source:

or acknowledge CIA's presence abroad where diplomatically

this would be inadvisable. I

cited our experience with the

"crank call" that originated in

in 1968 we tried to declassify this exhibit but

security officials objected on the grounds that it would

publicly acknowledge CIA presence on their soil and perhaps

stir unwarranted controversy. I stated that despite the

above-type problems we gradually have been declassifying

SERTET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

...

SECRET

3-

CIA's material, sanitizing exhibits, as necessary to

protect our sources

and methods.

7. I mentioned in passing, that two other things

beyond our control have contributed to the misconceptions

over our exhibits:

A)The inadvertent release by National

Archives of the master list of numbered exhibits

shortly

after the demise of the President's Commission without

distinguishing between overt and classified items; and

B) the fact that many exhibits bear different numbers

but are interrelated, thus giving a false impression that

there are more exhibits than is the case.

The release

of the master list without the accompanying documents

caused much apprehension and misinterpretation, Pacitcularly

among assassination "buffs" and Agency critics.

the

'Oswald and the U-2" entrv which was widely exploited

until we declassified the document a couple of years ago.

8. Mr. Ichord asked if any CIA members served on

the President's Commission. I said no, but mentioned that

former DCI Allen Dulles was on the Commission. He then

turned to the makeup of the Commission staff and how it

was chosen. I replied that we were not really competent

to comment

on how it was chosen but the staff consisted

largely of attorneys of varied political and ethnical

backgrounds from widely separated parts of the country;

that,

from my observation,

organized and a highly motivated, hard working group.

9. Mr. Ichord stated that he had no further questions

to ask and thanked us for easing his mind. Ne offered to

produce any other documents he might wish

to see. Mr. Ichord

replied that this would not be necessary. He returned our

exhibits and told us to consider the matter closed.

Arthur E. Dooley

CI/R$A

SECRET

---

