104-10342-10022}  .

SUBJECT (Oprencit

Der hnr/ Kinin lew

DDO/IMS/FPLG/IRB

FROM

1442

irradi

vanaten, room numba

185113 aa Green orn

4 OFFICER'S
4 NITIALS
“st

COMMENTS (Number och comment to show from whom
Siwhom. Drow @ hing peront column ater tach comment)

De/Dcb/Stafé A
912 Key Bldg
ArWwe

fo

so

DOO/IMS/FPLG/TRB.—
1H5113 Hgs. CY-1 Green

Subject assigned 201-0834822.
DOB: 2 July 1938, Hew Orleans,
Ta.

Request documents from
April 1976 to present.

Z7 vo info identifiable
with subject (s)

See attached memorandum

YQ drtwments



13-00000 ~

epteaber@, W9ei ee ee

RIVACY ACT and ~PREEDOM_OP_ INFORMATION ACT-REQUEST.

Privacy Act Coordinator
Central Intelligence Agency’ “" ~ ~
Washington, D.C. 20505 iP

Dear Sir:

Under the provisions of the Privacy Act, 5 USC, ay

and 32 CPR 1901 I am requesting any and all records of the
C.I.A. that: :

1. Relate to Gordon Novel being involved in a burglary of a we
storage bunker at the abandoned Navy Blimp Base in Houma, LA.

BL

se 3 A 26 Ph't

; 2. Relate in any way to Gordon Novel's involvement with the
New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrision's 1967-68
_ investigation St.the John F. Kennedy assassanation, |

-— - 3..Relate to Gordon Novel's involvement in the development of
World Fairs, transportation facilities or networks, Morning
coe Star Project or any military exihibit ship, attempted take
" wee Over of the I.C.B. Bank in New Orleans or development of

a electronic intelligence or counter intelligence equipment or
systems. . .

4, Relate to Gordon Novel's involvement in the Watergate
Affair or involyment with Charles Colson, Washington, Private
investigator Richard Lee Bast, columnist Jack Anderson, or
columnist Les Witten.

S. Relate to a federal conviction of Gordon Novel for |
interstate transportation of electronic intelligence or
surveillance equipment in Nevada.

6. Relate to Gordon Novel's relationship with Mitchell L.
Werbell, III, now living in Powder Springs, Georgia.

7. Relate to Gordon Novel's relationship with Ret. U.S. Army
Col, Allen Bell Jr. currently president of Dektor C.
Savannah, Georgia.

8, Relate to Gordon Novel's relationship with or contacts - ran
with Col. Fabian Max Meyer.

9. Relate to Gordon Novel's discussions with or subsequent
A lawsuit against C.I.A. employee Peter Houck.

10, Relate to Gordon Novel's discussions with or subsequent
lawsuit against Howard Osborn.

ll, Relate to inquiries made to the C.I.A. since May 1975
concerning Gordon Novel by any person or agency or
organization.

12, Relate to the psycological evaluations of Gordon Novel oMs >
made at Butner F.C.I., Butner, N.C.

13. Relate to Gordon Novel furnished to the agency by New
Orleans C.I.A. agents, employees or other persons.

14, Relate to information released to the House Select ow.
Committe on Assassinations pertaining to Gordon Novel.

TERETE


—————who_filed request, s_for_any information concern

‘Steven P£iffer, from 1974 until 1977.) -
: T Fes bee ve: 1 :

pegs
15. Indicate the

names and addresses of any and all persons
x15

Novel, and the information released and the date released

16. Pertain to any other information concerning Gordon Wovel.
Pursuent to 32 CPR 1900 and 32 CFR 1901 1 request the
following: ri .

dgett Pfifter ana” &
ppese * Be 8
met c pou) pe ie g
2.Any and all Correspondence or other information from +.
B

tidgett Pfiffer concerning Gordon Novel or his busin
interests, . - 5 Ba |

2. Any and all infromation pertaining’ to ‘Bri

3. Any and all records relating to Gordon Novel's former
wife, Abbey Novel, and or the minor children of Gordon ~ ~~~
Novel,i.e., Astra Casandra Spirit Novel, Sur Gordon Novel and =
Carrie Cristina Miracle Novel. ° Prose *B" *

Very truly WA

Ordon Dwane Novel

Tth —
SSN # 436 50 5647
Place of Birth New Orle,

Please send to c/o my attorney, Barry Diffendal, Esq., 1800 H->,
Street, NW, Suite 1040, Washington, B.C. 200cc. eee

GORDON DWANE NOVEL Personally appeared before me a notary
public of the District of Columbia, and swore he was the =

Gordon Novel who is referred to in the afforegoing reguests °
for information. a

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, as:

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 8th day:

_ Of September, 1981, E

