ioa-021940120

27 Ontoper Lysy

HEVOPANIAM POR: CI/OPS/SovSat
ATCENTION 1 Mr, Miler

ROM. a WE/L = Granquiet

1, On the afternoon of 28 C-tober 19%, Jane Rowan seked. me
wnether we had any addresses for TI'@AMA/L in the nited States.
She tnaicated that Mr. Fanich was interested in thin and that the
FBI minht want to consicer surveiilance of T/L in the IS. at any
place wiere ne was known to ug to Le. One of the reasons for such
sarvet!lance would be to check on tha possibility of fraud on nis
part.

2. The informution which folléwe has been taxen from the tapes
of the conversations Letween T/1 ana the Swedish Leak case officer.
If it is inconplete, it is nevertneless the bust we can dor

a. Some of the people whoe T/l axpects to see on the

West Coast during the appraxinate ee 27 October te 5

ot 6 November 1959 aret

- - ] Santa-Yonica; Calif.

= Sierra Metre, Calif.
= vrs.
Naval Orcnanca Tert Station, ovina Lake, Calif.

T/1 ats0 planned to spend @ tay ati Death Valley, Calif., out
aid nui know ‘n acvance whore ha would be stayinr.

Es be On © or & November he will return to Wanhtneton ant
“2, Contact us, probably staying at the: Voger Smith Hotel. ‘Noten
sirves liane of notel mirht plek up mur cane officer or yn
thers in contact with him, hence would be undesireble.)

¢. After 9 November T/l w't] stay vith his friend,|

in New York “ity. Corlay's adire —
bat can be provided, The
ne _4irectory liste uniy one
Bronx.

at this time,
Area toler
at



SECRET : —

3. With respect to the practicality or wisdum of sorveillence, ii ne
we feel that tne FBI dectaion should.ve made after due regard to the =
comaiderations already made known to them in conmecticn with the “
menitoring of the New York City phase of the operat:en. ‘he prop ‘
8nd cong would seem to be the sams, As for tne possibility of fraud,
wo are inclined to doubt that T/1 would be texpted in thie direction,

Ho was. told. by hia.case officer"that he must be prepared to outline pees
to hie Soviet case officer in convineing fashion and in detail every

: .~ > effort he makes to fulfill the requirements given nin, Zurthermore,
on the tesis of past performance we believe he ts truthful in what fa
he tells us as far as this operation 1s concerned. Vowever, in the :
opinion of the case officer, it ig not unlike him = in strictly ag
pergonal matters - occasionally to exaggerate if his om reputation
would be orhanced thereby. ‘Yt 1s problematic whether this tendency
wold ever extend to outright deceit,

he Jn the intereste of consistency, I tnought this reply to ere
Yrs, Roman ought to bo channeled through you. :

©, We would appreciate hearing from the Hurean what decision

they make regarding surveillance of T/l.

Distribution: : ae
Orig. & 2. C1/OP8/SovBat 2 : : :
1 - cr/Lsi
: 3+ WE/L
i
5
z
z
Bb
&
k

prreroic-eeatrineswaracaie|

nip ti

