104-10186-10063)

meme

va i i CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

as material cos tains information aecting the Katicosl Orfenes of tbe Onited Siatee within the'menaing of 12e Maptonage Laws, Ts
12 COC Bere THY O54 TH the tranemteicn cf rereietion of @hich in say manner to an Uneutherined Free Ww pronibtied By law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba - : : REPORT NO. CS CI-316/00709-65
SUWECT Suan PEREZ (aiias "Raul") ~ OaTE osTR, «12 February 1965
ae NO. PAGES «1

REFERENCES, seattle :
page
8 July 1966 RETURNTO CIA

neo.” 1964 Background U
u round Use Only .
Washington, Ds. Ce

Gate ato,Deceaber 1964 ED sercet No. Do Not Reprodugs

Taig 13 UNEVALUATED INTOMAATION, SOURCE OFADINOT ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT ty TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A former Cuban IS -fficer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The follewing report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental |
daformation from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Juan PEREZ, alias “Raul,” is a chauffeur in the
Depar‘amento de Liberacion Nacional (National. Liberation
Department - LN) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2. PEREZ, a Caucasian, was bord between 1935 and 1940.
He is five feet eight anches tall, weighs 160 pounds,
and has a nodium build.1

Headquarters Comment

1. Due to the commonness of Subject's name and a lack of
identifying backgrouad information, this Agency has been
unable to identify Juan PEREZ through a file trace.

eee ae

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM =o
stare Dia Aaa rd Tae marc TREX Tee FY 2

REP CINELANT CINCSO #_ 1&NS
Teams Fig'd dinriberon bedwcoted by “#3

iy ix 2290
+r ER, 19020(9Dec
: NO PROJECT ( AMMU

aS 5 Iasi 1 €SCI-316/00709,
a uae! im i _soorine agree
re wivsa 8. (13, WE 1 (2), CE 4, RID I ielanieed i (Si of)
~ Buy iC 1 /R:
Tae
