# 104-10192-10044

## Page 1

104-10192-10044

REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

DATE OF RIPORT

ND NO

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

HE'S

UFG- G729

18 Februnty 1965

lenry J. SLOMAN.

RENUITS OFFICIA

PLUNG OFFICEA

Andrew K. REUTENAN

MACHOPOUMO DATA ANO COMMENTES

TYPIC

в'се сл..

Source: Paras. 1 and 2: ANCHEER-] in ANOT DD-1260, dated 29

January 1965, from Vicente RODRIGUEZ Suarez (A 22 109 861), 8:

neispaperman and acquaintance of ALPIZAR..

RODRIGUEZ is an

collaborator Pleld Comment No. I was based on UFG 6636.

AMOT

3 - 5::

ANOT-173 In DD- 1245 and

Parase

DD 1247, dated 19 January 1965,

from

. Erlinda PUIG Nunez and Marcolino GARCIA Jimenez-

AMRAZZ-1

reported.on 25 January 1965 that It had been rumored In oxile

circles that KUBARK "gave BOSCH the green light" for the 17 January

aortal attack, but that there was no hard evidence to corroborate

this.

BID: No index,

HQS. Please pass CINCLANT.

Group 1ir Excluded from

Automatle Downgrading

and Declassification

OPTIONAL: ENTRILO BELOW MILO NOT BE FILLEO IN IF DUPRICI

"TRU IN ACCOMPANVINO REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

SATRA-AGENCY

EKTRA-AGENCY

* - Has.

1 - 00/C

2- UNBARR (COMKWESTFOR)

Panama Clty. (CINCSO)autpaste

16-7

I cy. each to slami reps. of:

Sts.e, c.; Border Ps, customs,

COUNTRT

BO, OF EPCLOBURES

SUBJECT

COPY

2

SECRET DO

Foll

88-400)

1467

{04F70#.

.. i

19-300-20

---

## Page 2

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADINO OF SOURCE, A Compieler relietta

#: Urually relishle.

Ca Fairty reliania

O Not usually reliablo.

E: Pent reliablo.

to Murces ot doubital honesty de loyalty, regardless of lner competence).

PostoN sources).

l, Reliat-lly Garne do Mista (oplied to unlested 08 +984816-80-508

APPRAISAL OF CONTENTI

tele: di Cannot pe Mids all Contemed by other independent end rollable source $ Protesty true i FussitieVe di Soulslul Si Pestel y

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTHOLLED DISSE

COUNTRYCuba

SUBJECT!•

Allogod Participation of

Wollo Alpizar Purer 1o tho

MiRB Air Striko over Cuba on

17 January 1965

Allogod Plan to Assasainto

Fidol Castro Buz

DATE OF 17 January 1965

INFO.

LACE &

VATE ACOUR CORNERA TOS:

Miam!

15 Fobruary 1961)

FALUATED IMPORMATION. BOURG

DATE CE REPORT 18 Fobruary 1963

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

UFG 8729

SOURCES

A sombor of a group of Cuban óuderós tralnod in tho tochniques

of Information colloction. Tho group has providud unoful reports

since 1961°

i..

Evello Alpizar Porer, 3625 NW Jith Steg Manly phono 635-8028,

• fornor Cuban Air Force pilot during Fulgencio Barista's rogino,

-claime to have pilotod the plano which mido the air strike over

he nagare sugar mint in northern Pinar de. Rio Province on

L7 January 1965.

The raid was sponsored by the Movlniento

Insurroccional: do Rocuporacion Rovolucionaria (MIRR, Insurrectional

Movomont for Revolutionary Recovory), a Cuban exilo organization

led by Orlando Bosch Avila.

Alpizar sald that Castro spoko tho truth when ho said that a bomb

had fallen on the housu of son poasants in t ho area.

According

o alpizar, no bomb rots on the sugar mild 1ty0lf,

but there was

succoas in

sottine firo to sono sugar cane flolds in the aroa.

Erlinda Pudg Nunoa,

wito of Marcolino Garcla Jinenoz, Chie»-of tho

MIRR directorate,

has allogod that thore pure fivo young men in

tho aircraft during

tho rald, and that the pilot was a Cuban exilo

who bad received training in

the Unltod States Army. Sho claimod

that the othor four crow memors, all young mon who had rocently

Joinod the MIRR, had also rocolved training at various Anorican

encampmonte. Ono of the crew, who was only

19 goars old,

injurod

his hand while removing tho cap fron ono. of the clorox bottles

containing the lise phoaphorgya used in the rald.

Pulg also snid that a group of 11 MIRR commandos had Infiltrated

Into Cuba in preparation for the air striko but that none of them.

had been captured

as was reportod.

• CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

Lostadnd from sortest int

adore and

seria:scheation

- DISTRIBUTION

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEH

-2-

LTC 6739

According to Marcelino Garcla Jimonez, as of about aId-January

the MIRR was proparing

to assassinate Castro,.

The person

rosponsiblo for accomplishing thia plan is a Cuban who 1s

sufforing fron'a heart disoase and whose lifo expoctancy has

thoroforo

beon shortenod;

Field Comments:

•;.:

Another sourco recently reported that Jack right,

an

American, tad-boen the pilot of the aircraft which mde

the raid on the Niagara sugar mill on 17 January.

wright

was subsequently killod on 2 February while attempting to

land his twin engine Beochcraft at Freoport,

Grand Bahamas

sandy he was reportery on the first leg of another all

strike attempt over fia by the MIrR

2.

The & January 1965 odition of the Minml Herald reported that

four anti-Castro commandos bad-been captured.attempting to

Infiltrate Into Cuba's north coust.

Soven others escaped and

wore boing pursued by governmont forces in the varadero and

Cardenas zones of Matanzas Province.

It was not. know+f-

the seven la d successfully infiltrated Cuba or had left the

Cs025-3120129-65

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

---

