# 104-10146-10214

## Page 1

104-10146-10214

55/24/25

SECRET

Reging.

STAFF

CONF: C/EA -8

INFO: FILED VRA DDO, C/CA-3, C/CCS, C/CI•4, C/EPS/EGA

C/IP/DMSA CAPCS/INTO CASIA/FLA DDO/DDO ODPD-DO OGC-2, OLE. SA/DO/O;

(28/P)

78 0472194

TOT:

PAGE

001

6803052

MAR 78

03

DIRECTOR 195505

SECRET

STAFF 280305Z-

TO: PRIORITY

IRECTOR 195505

173

OCtR

@ fih

WNINTEL RYBAT TAPPER

#SCA

THE FOLLOWING ARTICLE WRITTEN BY NICHOLAS M. HORROCK APPEARED

IN THE NEW YORK TIMES ON 27 MARCH 1978.

(FYI - THE

GEORGE BREEN •31

VAMES GIVEN IQ THE COMMITTEE BY WILCOTT INCLUDED THE FOLLOWING

• WILLIAM V. BROE• JIM DELANEY, JERR

FOX.

* CHESTER ITO, ELWOOD D. (PETE) MARTIN.

FREDERICK RANDALL, JACK RANDALL, KAN TAKAL, DORI.

WATANABE, LARRY WATANABE, JIM WOODS, LOUISE WOODS, PETE WHEELER, AND

SHIZUO YAMADA.

PLEASE NOTE THESE NAMES WERE NOT GIVEN IN THE

ARTICLE, AND AS FAR AS WE ARE AWARE: ARE NOT AVAILABLE

TO THE PUBLIC.)

QUOTE

OSWALD LINK TO C.I.A, SUGGESTED AT

INQUIRY

EX-EMPLOYEE OF AGENCY TELLS PANEL THAT HE HEARD OSWALD WAS AN

OPERATIVE IN JAPAN IN THE '50'S

BY NICHOLAS M. HORROCK

SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES

MASHINGTON, MARCH 26--A FORMER FINANCE OFFICER FOR THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY HAS TESTIFIED BEFORE THE HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS THAT HIS COLLEAGUES HAD TOLD HIM THAT

LEE HARVEY OSWALD WAS A SECRET OPERATIVE FOR THE AGENCY IN JAPAN

IN THE LATE 1950'S.

THE WITNESS, JAMES B. WILCOTT, WHO SAID THAT HE HAD SERVED

IN LOW LEVEL JOBS WITH THE C.I.A, FROM 1957 THROUGH APRIL 1966.

CONTENDED IN AN INTERVIEW THAT

CONVERSATIONS WITH COLLEAGUES IN

THE AGENCY'S TOKYO STATION AFTER PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION

ON NOV• 22P 1963 CONVINCED HIM THAT OSWALD, WHO HAD BEEN RECRUITED

BY THE

AGENCY TO

IN THE FAR EAST.

INFILTRATE

THE SOVIET UNION AND SERVED AS A MARINE

MR. WILCOTT, WHO ACKNOWLEDGED THAT HIS MEMORY OF EVENTS 15

SECRET

21345

---

## Page 2

CERDIS

SECRET

STAFF

78 0472194

PAGE 002

TOT:

280305Z MAR 78

DIRECTOR 195505

YEARS AGO WAS OFTEN SKETCHY, SAID THAT HE TESTIFIED UNDER OATH

AT A CLOSED SESSION OF THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WEDNESDAY,

SUPPLYING

THE NAMES OF SEVERAL OFFICIALS OF THE C.I.A, WHO MIGHT BE ABLE

TO GIVE FURTHER DETAILS ON THE MATTER.

ROBERT BLAKEY, THE CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR OF THE

•OMMITTEE, DECLINED TO COMMENT ON THE TESTIMONY

HOWEVER, AN

INTERIM REPORT ISSUED BY THE COMMITTEE INDICATED THAT. ALTHOUG

THE STAFF HAD CONDUCTED SOME 1, 400 FIELD INTERVIEWS, THE

COMMITTEE CHOSE TO FLY RELATIVELY FORMAL, SWORN TESTIMONY LIKE THAT

SUPPLIED BY MR. WILCOTT.

PROJECTS CALLED "CRYPTOS"

ACCORDING TO SEVERAL SOURCES, THE COMMITTEE WAS INVESTIGATING

MR. WILCOTT'S TESTIMONY.

MR. WILCOTT SAID THAT HE JOINED THE C.I.A, AS A LOW-RANKING

=INANCE OFFICER IN 1957 AND WAS SENT TO TOKYO IN 1960.

TOKYO STATION, WHICH WAS IN A BUILDING THAT OSTENSIBLY HOUSED

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE PERSONNEL, MR. WILCOTT SAID, HIS

RESPONSIBILITIES INCLUDED MAKING CASH DISBURSEMENTS FOR PROJECTS

IDENTIFIED ONLY BY CODE NAMES CALLED "CRYPTOS."

HE SAID THAT HIS WIFE WAS A CLERICAL EMPLOYEE OF THE AGENCY

AT THAT TIME AND THAT HE STOOD "WATCH SHIFTS" TO EARN EXTRA MONEY.

MR. WILCOTT SAID THAT ALTHOUGH THE TRADITIONS AND THE

REGULATIONS OF THE AGENCY SEPARATED MEMBERS OF THE SUPPORT STAFF

SUCH AS HIMSELF FROM INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS AND OTHER OFFICIALS,

HE FRATERNIZED WITH OPERATIONAL PERSONNEL WHILE HE WAS ON NIGHT-

WATCH DUTY; IN OCCASIONAL OFF-DUTY CONVERSATIONS AND AT THE

HE SAID THAT IN THE MONTHS AFTER KENNEDY'S DEATH HE HAD.

SEVERAL CONVERSATIONS WITH PERSONNEL INVOLVED IN COVERT OPERATIONS.

THOSE TALKS, HE SAID, CONVINCED HIM THAT OSWALD, WHO HAD BEEN

STATIONED AT ATSUGI AIR BASE, JAPAN, HAD BEEN RECRUITED TO INFILTRATE

THE SOVIET UNION AS A SPY.

ONLY ONE CONVERSATION

MR. WILCOTT SAID THAT HE COULD RECALL ONLY ONE SPECIFIC

CONVERSATION, WHICH OCCURRED SHORTLY AFTER JACK RUBY SHOT OSWALD

• IN DALLAS. IN AN ACCOUNT OF THE CONVERSATION THAT HE PREPARED FOR

PUBLICATION, MR. WILCOTT NOTED, 'I WAS TALKING WITH SOMEONE, I

CAN'T RECALL WHO FOR SURE, AND I EXPRESSED DISBELIEF ABOUT OSWALD

EVEN BEING A C.I.A. PROJECT, I WAS TOLD SOMETHING LIKE, "WELL,

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

d...

SECRET

STAFF

78 0472194

PAGE 004

TOT: 280305Z MAR 78

DIRECTOR 195505

18 AT

MR. WILCOTT'S STORY FROM PHILIP AGEF, A FORMER AGENT OF THE C.I.A.

WHO PUBLISHED SEVERAL YEARS AGO A BOOK ATTACKING THE AGENCY'S

OPERATIONS IN LATIN AMERICA.

MR. WILCOTT WAS REPRESENTED AT THE COMMITTEE HEARING

BY WILLIAM H. SCHAAP, ONE OF MR. AGEE'S LAWYERS.

NO FILE.

ORIG ENAVO EGATELY XIG88 27 MAR T8S COORD CEA/STE (DOREY,

DCEA (BUELL) SA/DO/O (GREGG)

REL: CEA/J (GATELY). CL BY 019522.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

