104-10063-10184

TURN TO CIA
Bekground Use Only
~ Bo Net Reproduce

B-3811

3.0 MAR 1973
SUBJECT: Travel from Algiers : He

1. A sensitive and reliable source reported on
27 March 1973 that the following United States citizens,
some of whom are Black Panther Party members, intend
to return to the United States via France:

a. George Edward WRIGHT aka Larry ee
(Bureau File No. 157-26562)

b. George BROWN (Bureau File No. 157-26564)
_ ¢ Melvin MENAIR (Bureau File No. 157-26560)

d. Jean Carol MCNAIR (Bureau File No. 157-
26561). : . :

Joyce Tillerson BURGESS (Bureau File No.
157- -26563) .

£. James Joseph PATTERSON (Bureau File No.
164-571) :

g.. Gwendolyn Joyce PATTERSON (Bureau File No.
164-571) :

h. Nathaniel Jerome BURNS (Bureau File No.
157-11540)

i. Caroline SUD (sic) (not further identified)

‘2. We are seeking further information abroad and
will advise your Bureau of any additional pertinent

- information that is obtained. The above information
is being made available to your Bureau in response

to your request for information on the activities of
the Cleaver Faction located in foreign countries as



he eT Sal
47%6 Dissem Abroad

No Foreign ss :
Dissem

Contr

transmitted in your teletype 004, dated 17 March 1971,
Subject: Black Panther Party - Cleaver Faction, Racial -
Matters. Information on James and Gwendolyn PATTERSON

- and Nathaniel BURNS is in response to your request for

information concerning travel of individuals included
in the extremist album transmitted in your letter dated

.8 May 1972, Subject: . Extremist Photograph Album -

Extremist Matters.

- 3, The information in this report is being  Gliees
to your Bureau with the understanding that it will
receive no further dissemination, other than to your
appropriate field offices, without the prior approval
of this office; and that any reference to it in internal
Bureau documents will state only that it was obtained
‘from a confidential source, with no mention of the

office originating this report.

Please transinit reply via CACTUS channel

we

Originated, a /SO; JLong; jah; 30 Mar 73
Based on: 371, 28 Mar 73
Source:

(pd

Distribution: fs
Original. - FBI (via CI courier)
+t - CI/S' Chrono

1 - PROD 71, 28 Mar 73
1 = - PRO
1. - BPP/Algiers
1 - BPP/France
1 - PG Chrono



14-00000 ‘

No Foreign Dissom/No Dissem Abroad RETURNTO cia

entrollod Diese: Background Use Onij
Coestrollod Dissem Do Not Reproduce”
B-3811
3.0 MAR 1973

SUBJECT: Travel from Algiers

: 1. A sensitive and reliable source reported on z
27 March 1973 that the following United States citizens,
some of whom are Black Panther Party members, intend

.to return to the United States via France:

a. George Edward WRIGHT aka Larry ae
{Bureau File No. 1257-26562) °

b. George BROWN (Bureau File No. 157-26564)
c. Melvin MCNAIR (Bureau File No. 157-26560)

d. Jean Carol MCNAIR (Bureau File No. 157-
26561)

e. nopee Tillerson BURGESS ee File No.
157-26563) .

£. James Joseph PATTERSON (Bureau File No.
164-571)

g. Gwendolyn Joyce PATTERSON (Bureau File No.
164-571)

h. Nathaniel Jerome BURNS (Bureau File No.
157- -11540)

a. Caroline SUD (sic) (not further identified)

/ 2. We are seeking further. information abroad and
will advise your Bureau of any additional pertinent
information that is obtained. The above information | -
is being made available to your Bureau in response
to your request for information on the activities of:
the Cleaver Faction located in foreign countries as

Dve oF 7132



jor GRORE iD
‘No Fortign SEG! Dissem Abroad’.
Controlled Dissem

transmitted in your teletype 004, dated 17 March 1971,-
Subject: Black Panther Party - Cleaver Faction, Racial
Matters. Information on James and Gwendolyn PATTERSON
and Nathaniel BURNS is in response to your request for
information concerning travel of individuals included
in the extremist album transmitted in your letter dated
.8 May 1972, Subject:.. Extremist Photograph Album -
Extremist Matters. :

- 3. The information in this report is being provided
to your Bureau with the understanding that it will
receive no further dissemination, other than to your
appropriate field offices, without the prior approval
of this office; and that any reference to it in internal
Bureau documents will state only that it was obtained
, £rom a confidential source, with no mention of the
office originating this report.

‘

Please transuit reply via CACTUS channel
od
Originate :“.CI/SO; JLong; jah; 30 Mar 73
Based on: 3371, 28 Mar 43 7
Source zu.
Distribution:
Original - FBI (via CI courier)
~- CI/SO B Memo,Chrono
1 - PROD @ARIS"3371, 28 Nar 73
1 - FOP REAL? 1
1 - BPP/Algiers
1 - BPP/France
1 - PG Chrono

2 :
No. Foreign Dissem/tto iat Abroad

- «Ip

