104-10183-10252] .

ndicated some urgen
ob

- SEGRET if

4 March 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT : AMWHIP/I Meeting, New York City,
28-29 Feb 1964,

1. Meeting Time/Place: AMWIIP/I's ‘office, 31 W.

47th St., New York City, Friday, 24 Feb, and Saturday, 29 Feb.
Accounting below is composite of the two meetings.

2. Purpose of Meeting. To discuss course of action
by AMWHIP in response to his receipt of word fro

9, AULASH via ee
a letter sent from Paris by(Carlos Jorge ROBRENQ, "aki "EL Mago".) of

4

3. Details of Meeting, ob
‘a. On 27 Feb, at called the writer via sterile
phone to say that he had received a letter from BRENO (CR)
postmarked 25 Feb., Paris. In one paragrapfr,(itjstated that he
had been given several “encargos" from AMALSH for A/1 to be
“transmitted personally” (see attached copy of letter). Since
the above information was not mentioned in the clear over the
phone, it was decided that the writer should meet with A/1 in
order to see the letter personally und to guide A/1l in any
subsequent steps. The writer arrived at A/l's office at

cu 1240, 28 Feb.

b, It was A/I's impression that the “encargos"
cited in the letter included things beyond personal requests,
but he was not absolutely certain of this interpretation due
to the brevity of the paragraph. To resolve this expeditiously
as requested inthe letter, jt was decided that A/L should call
Paris and talk directly mata? voiding, of course, any phone
call to the Cuban Fmbgssy there. To achieve this, it first  o¢

Gyus necessary to call (Luis FERNANDEZ Ruiz, aka "El Inglais"}
oO Gb), and ask him to get in touch with {Luis Enrique
SAS
him fo call

Who -in turn could pass message to Dagking
7. in New York, No interest of an ops nature
was revealed here,fas:the Paris group was told only (and
truthfully) that(R)had written to A/L in New York and that part
of his letter was’ unclear in its meaning, thus A/l wished to
talk directly with(Bin order to clarify this, (A phone call
was not at all unusuaPbin this case, given A/1's normally
extensive use of the phone, plus the fact that the letter
y and did not includ return addres
ed to the request even though it was
A/} waited in his NYC office until

ERNANDED rei
Wreer

atten 38 4d
SEGuET red


~——SEGEET -

0100 Paris time, but received no return call.

06 During the period subsequent to the call to
(renaxnez) the writer discussed the situation with A/l, It
was agrecdithat there was little we could do until we had
heard from(R)himself, The writer also took this opportunity to
let Afi krio' that we were rather concerned over the arrival -
ocof[K)with a message from AMLASH, particularly if indeed it
has“Any connection with AMLASII's future plans, (We knew also
at this time via the PARI cablep°but did not so state to A/l,
of that(Hyhad ‘evealed to (rrasaxcd) that he also expected another
"cou erm, (B08 Iberto IBARRA Martin, aka "El Loco",| to of
ee cith additional word from AMLASH.) /\ was

arrive nex
also told that the arrival of these messages from AMLASH

was further clouded by the fact that AMLASI was in touch with
us through another channel.

4. Insreply, A/1 agreed that there may be sone
cause for concern, but"in fact he was not too apprehensive as
he felt both men were "100%" behind ANLASIL. A/1L went on to
fay that by this he meant that both men had been for a long
say Mssocrated with the circles in which AMLASI had Neen &
leader, and could be regarded as “loyal® to AMLASH, However,
he did spectlate that both men were perhaps closer friends
with each other than either was with AMLASI, A/L wise
ioe (a) bo AMLASH and he did not personal ly eare for the

a

two men? (Rand TRARRADS put that AMLASH did feel that at Least
ob Has Ja eisction type" and could probably be fitted inte
‘Sii's plans at some point. (This was reported also in 1
Contact Report dated 23 Oct 1962) A/1 went on to a abel 4
cag much the smarter of the "two: (panna) ging ‘not too intelligent.
A/1 also stated that both men drank quité a bit, turning
into belligerent and talkative drunks. He stated that this
sNor-indulgence, with its resulting belicosity, was undoubtedly
06 responsible for® sJshooting of the American in a bar brawl
over g tomato im Havana several rg.sig0. Agcording to afl,
oGCBARRA] is more comm nly known as Fiianco" Matter the name
Sf hi¥ step-father, (Lino Blancd, to ‘hom (IBARRAs mother is
arried. 06 OG ob

oG e. At ca 1630 LMT (New Yor! 26 on 29 Feb, Grassasco)
and(ireturned A/t's call. In prief, (itjstated that he had
sone ftems to discuss with A/1, but that it was “nothing
immediate.” He stated that he had written subsequent letter
to 4/1 containing more information and which should arrive
in New York yea xt Monday or meets (meaning the 2nd or
R

3rd of March) 2 Iso stated that (BARRA yas coming to Paris
the following week “(week of 1 March) and Should bring with
him additional details. A/V ad that he was quite busy at

~" SEGHET



il SECRET -

ye time if it wasn't absolutely0hecessary. (R)said that he felt
vor, it could wait at least 1(iRARRA)arrived; then the matter
we could be re-considered ©°iR said he could be reached at the
MS following telephone No™ lat least for the next few
ONS | days (A/1 failed to ask Yor an Wddress or for the location -
& owner - of the phone)? [Baise stated that he planned to
visit Spain a "little later", but did not disclose te A/1 the

\ nature of the trip. The conversation ended with A/1 statin,
ig
jv otto he, he would be in,.touch with him later after he had

present and preferred ‘to rire coming ape at this

oO

recéjyed the letter from NJ, He also asked\H]to let him know
when(IRARRADarrived in Phri%? ‘o

06 ~
f. A/L will contact the writer us ‘soon as he gets
es ‘will mail it to the accommodation address

the letter from(H)ai
he regularly uses.
The writer left A/1's office for the

4. Security.
last time eo T730, 2 30, 29 Feb 1964. No incidents of a security
nature were noted. It is noted for the record, however,

that A/1 has given AMSPCRT/1 a temporary job in his firm,
and the writer's presence was observed by AMSPORT during this

series of meetings.

End of Report

SECEET

apd
