# 104-10110-10242

## Page 1

104-0110-10242

:

SECRET

18 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch

FROM

: Mr. Ramon R. Hart

SUBJECT

: Manuel F. ARTIME Buesa

#210 838

I. The first phase of the sudio surveillance of the

Subject at the SAS safehouse in Bethesda has been completed.

Tre subet it Washt pot, Do. Ca, on 13 July 1963.

moved out of his house, bag, baggage, and furniture, on

12 July 1963 enroute to an overseas PCS assignment.

2. Mr. Charles MATT, the case Officer in this case, has

advised that the subject, along with a Cuban companion, Mr.

Rafael Aurello QUINteRO barbia (#252 529), will return to

Washington, D. C., to be billeted in the Bethesda safehouse on

Monday, 29 July 1963. Mr. MATT has fervently requested audio

coverage of the downstairs

bar and telephone and the main floor

Living room at this house in order to monitor the Subject's

conversations with QUINTERO during the absence of SAS case

officers.

The case was assigned to the District Fleld Office,

and Special Agent

DDS/ 10,8

It 15 Agent

plan to place microphones in the

downstairs bar and the main floor living room and a tap on the

2urs/los* telephone and string all the wires to a crawl space over the

Empre

In that latter space, which will be kept locked, he will

set up two regular AC-operated tape recorders to be actuated by

0/:3

Vices

the two VOR's obtained from Franconia and paid for by SAS. Un-

Beknown to the Subject and his companion, a case officer will

have to service this equipment whenever an opportunity presents

Itself.

C.

C/S E

SECRET

SETS

FILAS

GROUP 1

Excluded from zañomatle

dawarrang and

taclassisication

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Page Two

#210 838

during

reduest of the lensor. Washington real estate agent, Mrol

the house for a New York lawyer in order to billet the latter's

transient clients. Case Officer MATT has engaged & maid to

clean up the house Mondays and Thursdays; however, she can be

hose days. It was also discreetly requested by the undersigne

I Case Officer MATT not to kibbitz too much while the techni.

cians are making the installation.

radio" phase. The only complication will be in servicing th

recorders on a timely basis.

Torn

R Hut

Ramon R. Hart

cc: #252 529

11g

SECRET _

---

