104-10004-10164

H Correspondence and memoranda relating to "Length of Time Required
| for Obtaining Soviet Tourist Visas in Helsinki and Stockholm, 196).

tet tne 2D 34D,

for FOIA Review on Rg 176

ATT. | te: XAAZ-22427 pat 2Ol-2IIZET


13-00000

See Sanitized File _. i x
Number 23
For sterile cony of this document.



13-00000

— SECRET

27 July 1964

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT : Length of Time Required for Obtaining Soviet Tourist
Visas in Helsinki and Stockholm, 1964

1. In response to a telephone inquiry concerning the time required
(July 1964) for issuance of a Soviet visa for a US businessman, the Soviet
consul in Helsinki stated that he could iseue a transit visa (valid for 24
hours) in five minutes but that for a longer stay he would need about a
week to process a visa application and have Inturist arrange for lodgings.
He implied that the main reason for delays in visa issuances was a shortage
of hotel epace in the USSR.

2. A Finnish travel agency representative eaid in July 1964 that he
is able to obtain Soviet tourist visas for his customers within five days if
he pushes the matter.

3. A telephone check with the Soviet consulate in Stockholm in July
: 1964 revealed that normal visa processing there takes seven days but that
i thie can be shortened to five days “in exceptional cases." The Soviet
! official receiving the telephone call stated that it was impossible to get a
d visa within two or three days.

4. A Soviet official in Stockholm indicated in 1964 that visa processing
for foreigners wishing to visit the USSR normally takee six to eight days in
Stockholm but that visas for Swedish businessmen and other personalities
: of special interest (not defined) can be processed directly by the Soviet
i embassy in Stockholm without referral to Moscow.

owe tte HQ

for FOIA Review on YUN 1976 :



13-00000

°
n
8
=a
o
7
i
°
a
4
5
o
°°
i
aa

umber
yor sterile

PONY BEAM OD ny arp

= fet :
ee
wm Ve

vey ee

Cngese f

m

% BoOLmsyIA pace fo syhry

pyS co ary y 3
JUTCsISG FY [god cyee apes broces

LICIsT Ti gise

i Torerkuore wy
ma

grarsi ©

3 ATERTY GA
equcyey teeerare® ppe rayebpows cory etefsy yee me eye pctouarpys po fer gy
@ CU DG aYGLfaueED fo YAS qvhLe eshtrousy eseog 2pS pOATse

F LGARSTEQ CET EO. brorgaciw? cyene gsxee esas gaAa png iS)

usr Aya
2° oy fepehyoue svech wig ene Sf Comenyszs rr

Oe TLS

“FOCKROTR. yo

@ beavee je werten:
+ £O OLKVI DOrjer LOnLIeL Arese tay Ie ef
v EMIey pivacy of RESGUESTTAS O37G TU

FOS LS WIT GAS Ged

STA 1Q0g tpur 16

