# 104-10308-10188

## Page 1

1104-10308-10188]

D'SPAICI

CLASSIFICATION

SEGRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

TO

INFO.

Chief of Base, Geneva

Chief of Station, Bern

-x.

NO INDEXING REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFICO DESK

CAM JUDGE INDEXING

THierr

Chief, DE

SUBJECT INDEVOUT - 3>

Transmittal

of material requested in Reference

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

For Information

MICROFILM

ESGA 5418, 10 September 1963

We have assembled all the material Immedately available at headquarters

that fulf1lls the request contained in the reference under Identities B and C.

I1st of the material is forwarded as Separate Cover Attachment 1 to this dispatch

and the material itself as Seperate Cover Attachment 2.

2. We have broken Separate Cover Attachment 1 down into categories (1) and

In going over the items that we have not been too successful

In filling your Identity C request, especially In category (1). We found several

items in category (2) from PBPRIME sources and we have hopes of obtaining

some

from English and French sources. However, it has been explained tous that cate-

gory (1) just does not provide a large enough market to make worthwhile the type of

promotional material you wish to pass to INDEVOUT-3.

We wish to call your attention, however, to a company in Sulese that con-

piles material of the type you want, on any subject, to order.. The compary 1s well

known and is used by institutions and Individuals throughout the world, including

KUBARK. SInce INDEVOUT-3 could have heard of this company from any number of

sources, you may wish to pass the name to him'and lét him place an order that will

f111 the gaps in the material we are sending you. The name and address of the com-

pany 1s forwarded as Separate Cover Attachment 3.

JANE M. PRIDIMAN

Attachments: USC

1 = List of material

2 • The material 1$sc1f

3 - Name and address of company

Distribution:

2-COB/Geneva

25xd,2-COS/Bern

Core Herchite, 10

GROUP 1

Exctated from automatte

sea: racing and

1-RID:EE/SA 68-6-147/3

I-EE/SA/S

I-FE/SA Chrono

ROUTING

INITIAL

PINI AN

RIN /MT3

V..

OFFICE SYMBOL

EE/SA/S

DEDeRO USE MEVIOUS EDITION

C/BE/SA

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

1022

ESCH ASSIEATION

SECRET

OFFICE

EE/SA/S

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

6:8-1

DATE

i lill 13.95

HQS FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATING

686147/3

OFFICER'S NAME

7469

DATE

25 8 63.

140)

RELEASING

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SEGALI

Attachment 1

SITATATE MOUTT

ATTACHE BIVE TO

550H- 114?

1. Espionnge - A Comurchansive lollorrajity

2. Supplement to above, Ich. 1957 to Jamary 1260

3o Bibliogranty on soviet Bopionnen since l'orld iar IT

H.. Bibl10zraphy - Fublie Texte in Intellier

5. Espienege: Pooks In 1h9 French leprisere

Go llet of twels in lallah on Intollipenne axl teplennes

Category (2) Police retiods ad Griminalot.

1. Criminolore an kirired subjecte

2. Bollarmply al Fublle Safety Tecinical Peterences

3. Mbliocerit of recent anke on Folice-br Subjorte with Courte

Subversive Apriention

4a LITART OF CUiTINTO • "Forelen Iolice Sartoma, Their Orpanitatim

And Operation" - Selective Bibliogranity

cutl service pook falea - 1725 Tart Eith 3t., Chicao 17,

Ill1D01e. 1998-59 List of Text & Quiz look: for tonecutors,

sheriffe Cordere, Inllesten

i regal sook store - 122 6. Moadway, Los Alumlee l?, Callforus

• lolice guigrant curvey b! Interational Tillen senicer, Inc

Ursier contract 1n TEA

So Realing Ift for Iollsemen and Tallcewame.

so Pihlimanity

GPSUF 1

ES COPY

End. Its E SEW - 1118

OFFICE

SECRET

15-6:14713

KUNIGINATING

---

