# 104-10263-10111

## Page 1

104-10263-10111

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLAYSIFICATION TOP AND BO:TOM;

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDESTIAL

SECHET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIAL

Amen is uet Paul

Commett: Where are

date for line B lucke

sall son filta slis

ACTION

08,1262%

8058.S

DIRECT REPLY

APPROVAL

PREPARE REPLY

DISPATCH

COMMENT

MENDATION

FILE

CONCURRENCE

IAFORMATION

Remarke:

PROMI NAME.

UNCLASHIFIKD

194,19 237

Use previous editions

---

## Page 2

• 83 recenber

1566

TOm:

I's noe nuerly enthusiastie anut

she possibilltles of getting much from

SKEMEF-1; lowever, Peould lins to 90er

nam and chat aboue his friends ind business

assoclates In the M/L Islands. lla possibly

mighe be used as an entree to reporting

or support ussets

Ie would be my openion thne we. would

not hove so bring his cleerunce up en date.

so chat with him.

Paul

ve not made any nate, fre

he files; therefore, if ld agreest

---

## Page 3

14-00000

M4. 201

S-E-C-P.-F-T

(then Filled In)

SKEWERI

Reced on

SACard

MEMTRANDLAI FOR: DOCO/SA

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

"Jo Doferenca 10 node to your morantun dated 5 Jamary 1965

which requested a Covert Security Approval be granted Subject for

briefing on KIBAIT Objectives in WUBCOlY D and propose Long tern

escrotal callaboration of mitual adreaters, Project WuBROt.

In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction •

Field No. 10-5,

a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of

the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,

above.

Subjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represent

themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security

Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore,

if you should desire at a later

late to change the status or use of this individual, a request for

appsoval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this

office.

* This approval becones invalid in the event the subject's

services are not utilized within sir nonths of the date of this

memorandum.

for

Vietor R. White

Deputy Director of security (InS)

hoL-C-R-J*T

(when Filled In

---

## Page 4

C-0-g-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

When

filled In

128520.31

3e See 107

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's

I have reviewed the 201 file on

(201 number indicated below), and

most accurately be categorized as indicated below

of 9 Deceaber 1974,

(surname)

dermined Cat it can

should be closed.

witting collabor

ator.

O1 Code Al.

potential witting collaborator; date opened

O1 Code A2.

former

•ittine collaborator (relationship terminated

o1

Code

• A3.- Parteas

not olear.

potential witting collaborator

reasons, derogatory information).

never contacted (security

oI code Ad.

counterintelligence case (1.e.,

Intelligence or security service).

involving a foreign

oI Code AJ.

all ochere.

oI Code A6.

81

This ansignment of category has

been

Dud of Later.

(title)

encered Into STAR.

81800d (ani la)

KAM

dete JAN 1915

Thin docunent

•permanent part of

this film,

When

Tilled In

Q0---I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

101-205 U₴

IMPDET

CL BX 214928

L

---

## Page 5

A0t. 201

S-E-C-P.-F-T

(chen Filled In)

SKEWER I

Reced on

SACad

MEMPRANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

DOCO/SA

• 1.

Deference 1e unde to your memorandun dated 5 Jamiary 196,

which requested a Covert Security Approval be granted Subject for

briefing on KIBARs objectives in WUBROIT D and propose long term

meroinl collaboration of mutual advartage, Project WuBkIn.

In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction •

Field No, 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of

the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,

ubjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represen

hemselves as, not are they to be represented as, employees of CiA

Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security

pproval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

Of CIA Regulation 10-3.

Therefore,

if you should desire at a later

date to change the status or use

of this individual, a request for

approal to cover any proposed clange should be submitted to this

This approval becones invaltd in she event the subject's

services are not utilized within six months of the date of this

menorendum.

for

Victor R. White

Poputy Director of security (INS)

HE Her.

(when Fabled In)

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Skewer / 201

26 Samary 1963

MENORANCUM FOR THE RECORD

Meetine alch skit/l on the salacionahlo

of the

SKEWER'2,

An mureed la nio LL Jamary 1905 meeting witt

alephoned SKEWER 1 on th

moming of l8 January to irrange a neeting with S'EWER/1

mt his convenience later in the day.

SEWER/l suggested

he ne as 1500 hours chat attemoon in his office a

he indicated to

J chae the

vich favor on 1

and le doine bustness wich le through

sea Menager.

Prior to the meetina.

revlewed che approach to be made to Skerell In

Che lebe of hia favorablo vlew of

It was acreed

Chat no

poor financlal condition or that

menElon bould he made of the fact that 1a Inade-

quate al a manager.

SEress would be laid non assesement

of the long-tem

commercial vinbility of

because

RUBARK 10 Ostensibly Intorested In

a managerial posleton in.

or some other similar flu,

In order to monicor Castro's activities la the Caribbean

area.

AIIIVeN Pre

elsely ae 1500 houza at S"EVER®& offico on the second floor

His male secretary asked

an to take

seats in the corridor outslue hie office.

Wehin a few minutes his sacretary reappeared and asked a

to wale in the Conference room.

Some ten minutes later

SKEWEN/l appeared and invitad un into his neivate office.

He was extremely cordial and gracloud.

as a colleague who de assesalre

merelal viability.

Ile Introduced

as a Lawyer

convultant who 1a

obtaining background Infosmation in tha

OYOnE KUBARK should deelde to proceed

SECRET

---

## Page 7

..

..!

_inforned SKEWEN that sUBARK le assessing

the factora bearin; on the long-tem commercial viability

of A4C0.

and the terns of any agreements.

we would also like his vlews on commoditles other chan

and what commodttles can be shipped on retur

Voyages, Another factor of interest la competicion in the

SKEWER 1 Indicated that ie naeind, some clartfl

ention of KUBARi oblectivea.

reviewed KUBAi,

lor the purpose

Vor checking on casiro activities in the caribbean area.

SKEWER/1

assuned that

] was the man da whom

ve are interested.

dienelled this assumption

expLaining that KuBalk has a canciluate whom we would like

to place

mined that_

co affoct chli has balped siBli in the past anci voula

undoubzedly help again.

SiE ER/1 said,

"Oh, yes. throush

In the company." lie then asked if

would know of KUBARK interest. [

T replieu no,

emphasizing that our Interest should be closely held.

SKEWER sald that he had not realized that we

wanted so much detail and asked 1f we destrai to call siti

the man In his company nost familiar wich

declined, emphasizing that we wanted to keep our Interest

La chas master contined solely to SKEWER/1.

SKELERA 10-

mediately agreed to make the neccesary teleplione calls to

obtain answera to our a

No Che basts for his

Inculry. he would ask.

made a sortes of celephone calle to one of his subordinacoo

named Torang and also mace one coll to hia son.

the following

Information was obtained In the above calephono calls:

AMCO has'2 or 3 elipe under charter and shipe

primarily coment to jartinque, cuadaloupe,

Barbados,

and intinue.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

The uerto

Rican sement Company hasa

verbal agrienent with :s. Ihilotte grantini him

exclusive ilstribution of cement in mailoupe,

Barbadoo, and Antigua.

and la slou In payment.

The luerto Rlean Cament Compuny 1a currently

aramining. how much erause it can extend to AliCo.

In this connoction the company la exanining whether

credit extended to Nico ean be Intured under the

or ten credit insurance Association.

(FCIA insures

10% of

export credie.)

If so, the riok to tha

Paorto Rican Cement Company would be reduced and

further credit could be extended.

139,000 bage of CoRE to men.

The Puerto Rican Cement Company has sold

SKEWER 1 Bald that Me. Philpotts 18 arrressive

md that he le pushing Fuerto Rican cement.

naked SKEWER/1 If his fim were sorrled niout the amount

of erecle extended to AMCo. StEwERs reDiled that AC)

Crying to help the Merco Rican Cament Comany arr

merto Rican Cement is In turn trying to help ANCO.

SKEWER/1 Imparted che Impression that he has absolute

confidence In his sujordinates.

In calling

Tomas,

SKEwEr/l

sald to un that ha had gone over the head

of his son.

BREWER 1 was not aware that ACO Puerto Rico 1e a subaldler

O! AMCO Panana.

Wen apprised of this fact, he said that

Chas arrangement is probably for tax purposos.

SKEWER/1

lofe the Impression chat he conaldera NICO as a Puerto Rican

ie recalled that he had

whom no one else would hire. ir. Imbert now

shipping company and SOVER/1 suggented thee ve assess his

peration

He recalled that Ne.

Irallo lad colephoned hin

bout harboring a criminal

sauer/l cold Trujillo to mind

hao own business as would skewin.

1r. stanulia Inilented

Chat KUlARk would not want to condider Fred Inert's opera

Throughout the conversation; the ploture smorged

of a man

who trusts hia subordinates and who would heip an

Individual o= f1mm,

Erying to loip ill left oularly iuerto liloan, witch io alro

SECRET

---

## Page 9

Satist

Bald that ve would assess che

eituation carefully, and in the event 1t should ha

etemined to proceed, we woulu acvise him.

nored him tiak

cur trlenc 181

Tha

an he duraised, le the cop san in hia firm.

reveaLeu tile andomstion to SAil in tha asant

that it should be jaemad tealrabl

negotlate with dies

сол-

versely, In the event or 1

chat meekl should know timid unam

allure, le was fele

with any other participante.

cooperation.

SKEvil offered full

ile had arranged hia achecule. to Elve us

In our prosence he received

« telephone eall in which

" wuch time as necessark he apologised for cancelling

SKEWEd can be

DOCO/ SA

Distribucion:

0r18.

• Opa

file

WUBRINY D f110

• SKEWER/1 201

• Chrono

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

13 Jannery 8465

MENORANDUM FOR: The Becord

SUBJECT:

Project HUBRINY--Antilles Materials Company, Led.

Diaceneson byL

wish SKEWER/L

1, I mado intial colophonic conface with SKEWIN/l st approvamataly

1100 houro on 10 January 1y65 and made arrangemense for a meeting de my

hotel room for the following day between the houre of 1600 and 1700 to be

followed by another on lunday it a line miù jiacs sha: mould be conrentent

fOr SKEWIR/1, Later in the day SKEWER/I informed me that ho would be

mmo to moot with an on Tuesday no ho was loaviog by air on the evening

ol 11 Janunry for a series of appointmento in the States.

8. The mealing wila SKEWER/I was hold in my hotel room at 164%

houre on 11 January. I teld SKEWER/l that as he know, one of KUBARK'®

prime Information targete in Latin America concerned the activitles ol

Castro'« Cuba and that in this connoction some of our people had been

thinking for some time that it would be moat useful in pursuing this require-

ment to have entree lato shipping intereote that were active in Caribbean

waters. SKEWER/! sald he thought this iden excellent. I further mated

ahmt those people had heard that SKEWER/l'e dirm was discussing the posal.

Mlity of entering into an exclusive Caribbean distributor ship contrace with

Alvin I. Philpotta, 35., who do nanociated with the Antillen Maseriale

Company, Lid, S. 1. ol Panama and Puerto Rico, and asked him if he bad

any knowledge of the individul or the negotiation. SKEWER/I soplied

Ohns ho did not know of alther, bur that his son would be familiar wich both.

9. I anked SKEWER/1 ll he would be willing to invostigato the vita-

ation discretly without mentioning any interest on KUBARK'& part and M

Rhe unme timo considor the commercial tennibility of the venture for Alco.

We agreed..

ting

binnie concept, I told SKEWER/1 that 11 the

thnt the concept i0 an

SKEWER/1 rosterated hin convieron

a and enid ho would do all in his power to

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

help KUBARK schleve thie ebjective.

5, I told him that I would appreciate his cooperation in meeting

mIla two of my friendo who are more fully versed la thone mattero.

fle agreed and set the meeting for Monday, 19 January 1965. SKEWER/&

save me hie ulted privato telephone nunior and nuggested that I con-

fact him Monday moraing, 19 Janunry 1965, to set lime and place for

the meeting. The mumber do 048-2120.

Distriestion:

0818. --C/DO/SA

ADCPOICO

& WUBRINT/D

V1--BKEWER/1 201 0le

1oBA Chrese

SECRET

---

## Page 12

Hand!

- Skiwe: 201

1 February 1965

Case Officer Corment:

The meeting wit: SKEWERl confirmed Mr. Philpotte

report that his relations with the Puerto Plean Cement

Company are good.

It also revezled the terms of the

Philpotte had see mposica in docili

WUBRINY/2.

It is obvlous that it. Philotte has

sold himself to certain officials in che Puerto rican

Cement Company who have the confidence of the Company g

cop management.

The extent to which Mr. Philpotts may

have conned other businessmen into extending credit

und the amount of such

credit is a key factor for in-

motigation by WUBRINY/d and /2, and Mr.. Malla on theat

foscheoming trip.

e 18 teared that Me. Philpotts has

Incurred so many debts that the firing of Mr. Palpotte

and reorganization of AMCO would be prohibitively

penalve.

SECRET

---

## Page 13

SECRET

1 Februazy 1965

Case Officer Comment:

The meeting with SKEWER1 confirmed Mr. Philpotts

report that his relations with the Puerto Rican Cement

Company are good. It also revealed the terms of the

between the Puerto Rican Cement Company

to HUBRINY/2. It is obvious that Mr. Philpotts has

sold himself to certain officiais in the Puerto Rican

Cement Company who have the confidence of the Company' g

cop management.

The extent to which Mr.

Philpotes may

have conned other businessmen into extending credit

and the amount of such credit is a key factor for 1n-

vest gation by HUBRINY/l and /2,

and Mr. Malla on their

forthcoming trp.

It. La feared that Me. Philpotts h&e

Incurzed so many debts that the firing of Mi. Philpotte

and reorganization of AMCO would be probibitively

•apensive.

SECRET

Taji

---

## Page 14

14 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Antilles Materials Company, LEd.

1. Mr.: Ed Stenulls telephoned Nt. Allen at

home from San Juan

Puerto Elco,

on ll January 1965

He met with SKENER/1 as sehewuled at 3 r.M.

SKEVER/1

was not familiar with any negotiations between the

Puorto Alcan Cement Company and NICO but agreed to

look quietly into Character.

sail to PaCement a Sale Manager dea a telephone

for New Link.

Skewcr/1 sald that he had such a heavy

alives In Puerto Rico on 18 January 1965.

This delay

mould also enable him to investigate thoroughly the

«Catus of negotiations wich ANCO.

Mr.

Asten hie

Starulls affined untquivocally. to. Mr.

agasnet Cuba.

Me. Stanmile ull' write a report upon

marival in washington en er about 13 Jauary 1965.

Plessibutions

• Ope 1110

Subj.

cheone

SECKET

---

## Page 15

1d-0n0d

(When Filled In)

MIEMORANDUM FOR: DOCO/SA

ATTENTION

FROM

SUBJECT

14 100

Deputy Director of Security (Investl

gations and Operational Support)

?. In accordance with the provinions set forth In Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Servicen Instruction -

Held No. 10-5, a Frovinional Covert Security Approval In granted for

the une of the Subject an described in your requent an set forth 1n

paragraph 1, above.

This confiras a verbal PCSA grantad 5 January 1965.

ubjects of. Provinional Corert Security Approval are not 1

present themselves as, nor are they to be represented am, employee

of CIA.

Your attention in called to the fact that a Provisional Covert

Security Approval does not contitute compiete compllance with the

provisions of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, 11 you whould denire at

a later date to change the ntatus or une of this individual, & request

for approval to cover any propored shange ahould be ambitted to thie

vithta go dey of the date de tale me ran dus.

Thin approval becones Invalid In the event action 1u It taxen

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECUTITY!

per viatos 8. vaito

(When J1110d In)

DROUT 1

Ioluded from Auto

matso dongrading and

deolnuittention

---

## Page 16

74-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL DiS INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

##od6098)

PLIASA COMPLETE BACH SICTION UND API SOPHIATE BLINI

TO:

Subject

7 January 1964

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AAD SUPPORT DIVISICA

FRett:

CMILE, IAVESTIGATIDN AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY

CHIEF.

SUBJECT:

PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE CE SECURITY

JOCO/SA

PRSJEET

LUSRINY

GI/DA FILE DO.

•I BOI FILE NO.

45O

MATIONAL APPROVAL

COVERT

BECURITY APPROVAL

€OVE

1.

TYPE

ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROPRLETANY APPAGUAL

COUCHT. MAME CHECK

APECIAL INQUIaY (SO field Inventigation)

CONTRACT TYE !

#.

AARA 0 USE

United States-Puerto RiCO

fuLL

•. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

DO VID. BOVEANMEHT INTERROT MAY BE SHONA DURINE IMVEBTIGATIONE

#. CIA INTEREBT MAY DE SNOUM DURINO INVESTIGATION!

C. ID SUBJECT AWANG ON U.O. COVENAMENT INTEREST IN NIMI

D, 1O BUBJECT AWARE OF CLA INTEREST IN MIMI

INDIGAYE ANY LIMITATIONS ON GOVERAGE IN PHE INVESTIBATION DE BUBJECT.

BUBOrAT "COVEN PAsTENY"

TO BE USED IA CONDUCTINE PERSONAL

DO YOU

JEET WITTINO ON AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTERESTI

SATIATION OUTBIDE

CHA, EXPLAIN FULLY

##Q

PRO AND GREEN

BOUTVALENT. IN (RI COPIES ATTACHED

LENT,

IN 11) COPY ATTACHED

#ECORD

& WILL FORWARD

STATUS

PRO

WILL BE FORGANGRO

GREER LIBT APPACHES.

#0 1

RI THACES

HON-DEROGATORY

1. DIVISION TRACES

KON-DENOGATORT

FILLD TRACES

VES'

NO

KITes I Tro

DEROGATONY ATTACHED

•84UỜ 83 549

(Suplonation)

DAY ON ATTACHED

Hr-619Gl

SECRET

49794 4947-0-299

---

## Page 17

Slewer ti

- 13 January 1965

MEYORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Antilles Materials Cenpony, Led.

* MessIs

former

on 8 Jaruary 1965 with MI.

to discuss ay approach

Hould go to

concact Skater on the loca

Fopefully SWER/1 could obscia

antormation on regotiations setaer Puerto Rican Conent Cou

pany and Anco in tire for a meeting with Messro Stanulis len,

and carter on 1t danuary®

Messes.

I would plan

to arrive 1n San Juan at 10:50 Pell. on ll January.

2.

MOULd aspIlCE SKEVER/1 Of KUBARK'S

In oraez to conitor

Caban activities.

SKEWER/1 rould be caulloned to leco this.

knowledge confidential.

In this conrectio:,

that SKEvEr/1 had proved to ba nbcalutely rellable frcu the

security point of view.

Lould edvise SKEWER/1

Janich is negotiating with the

So ba its I

Taistributor in

che caribbean area.

Stevia/s wouid be asksd to confirm any

nogotiations and che tesus

involved.

His 2951273 would be

given In the cubsequent zosing witi

Further discuscion vith

SKEWER /1 could be condi

cloned on his answers.

in shy coca lUBint representatives

WOuLd ascertain his vuva on the validity of

concept and si any possibility forl

collaboration

between

J.

ca 10 Jaruary 1965 telcoho: s-

at home

O repot tot se has a mueting echoculud tach SKaveR/T

3raine on ll damary.

SKEWEr/1 13 leaving the night o

Jenuary far lori Yorl uboro he vill remaln Chrcugh port of

5

January.

p1ll esy to got a flight cur of

Puerto. Rico

fox Manors

Lui New York, co that a meccing may be during

_with SKEwon, 1n 1n.

Jaftas hio booting

with

SKEWER/1.

10 staying at the locol Da Vinod,

400s 81.

Ti,

6.6 ST.

10 2 3252

---

## Page 18

SKEVER/1 will be staying in New Yor': at the Hotel

Savoy Plaza.

limediately telephoned

941-2802, and

advised him of the change in plans.

DOCO! SA:GWA: jev (13 Jan. 1965)

Distribution:

Subject

• WUBRINY OpE

• SA Chrono

SKEWER/1

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL GE INVESTIGATIVE NOTICS

¿Aluaya

hardcarry & copy of lis

f088)

PLEASE COMPLETE ELER SECTION AND APPROPRIATI JEANE

Said

Subjest

3 january 15:5

TO:!

L'i GPERATIONAS AFFROVAL AND SUPPURT DIVISION

Fait

Mi CHiEF.

INVESTIGATION AND SUPPERT DIVISIGS.

CHIEF.

CFFICE GE SECURITY

PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE EE SECURITY

SUBJECT:

¡(True nage)

CRYPTONYA, PSELDONTM, ANA OR AblASES

POC0/S.4

PROJECT

10222.

C1/04 FiLe

6902943

30:

{209-263722

PROVISIOSAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL

APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL

COVERT

SECURITY APPROVAL& DEC. L2U2

COVERT

SECURITY APPAOVAL

CONTRACT TYPE A

&- SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTEO

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APROVAL

PROPRICTARY APPROVAL

COVERT NAME CHECK

CONTRACT TYPE B

United States • Puerto Rico

Д.

#.. INVESTIGATION ANS COVER

GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY DE SHOWN QURING INVESTIGATIONI

YES

NO

8, CLA INTERIST MAY BE SHOWN QURING INVESTIGATIONI

C. I$ SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVEANMENT INTEREST IN MINT

D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIMS

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE. IN THE INYEATIGATION OF SUBJEGT.

", BUGGIET "COVIA PRETEXT" TO DE UBRO' IN CONDUCTINO DERBONAL INVESTIGATION OP BUOJECT.

DO: YOU PLAN TO MAKE BUQLECT WITTING OF AGGUSY OR GOVEANMENT INTERESTI

IF NO INVESTIDATION OUTOIOG-CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY

PRO.

1.' 0R

NO

RECORD

NO

ARCORD

NO

NO

GATOAY INFO.

D: PRO NiO GREEN LIST STATUS

IN CAT COPIED ATTACHED

+HO

WILL BE FORWARDED

IN 111 COPY ATTACHEO

RI TRACES

ARREN: LIST ATTACKED, NO, FUSSSE

FORWARD

NON•DERG ITORY

DIVISION THACES

WiLL PORMARO

MON: OBROGATORY

FIELD TRACES

#I6ы FORWARD

UUNQGATORY ATTACHEO

SIOHIPISANT INPOSMATHEN ATTACHED

GEROGATURY ATTACHED

I DENGATOST ATTACHED

PRICEA

DOCO/ SA

X*N 772 488

ENT&MAIDN

11-61951

SECRET

C/ DOCO/ Si

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SEC.AT

§ January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

(201-205712)

1.

WH/2/Dominiean Republie holds Subjeci's file

which has been loaned to DO/SA.

019

5 January

1965 celephoned the DR Desk Officer|

and explained that DO/SA would like to make Subject wit-

ting of KUBARK Interest in HUBRINY D.

said

that the Desk is not now using Subject and that it has

no objection to DO/SA briefing

subject.

He asked chat

• memorandum covering

the contact be prepared for inclu

sion in the Subject's file.

on 5 January 1965 informed DO/Security

that DO/SA desires to make Subject witting of KUBARK

Interest in WUBRINY D.

A PCSA had previously been grantec

on 8 December 1964 with the understanding that a CSA can

be quickly obtained because of the existing 0/A on him.

DO/Security said that necessary action for a CSA would

be undertaken at once and that he foresees no problem.

GWA: Jev

Drotribution:

Subject file

1

WUBRINY

Ope

WUBRINY D

SA

Chrono

c. e1-79 1-229 18718

• dies act

SEGRET"

---

## Page 21

9 Face-ber 195k

HEMORANDIM FOR TEE ROCOD

SUBJECT:

DO/Security Informal

on 8 Decembe= 1961 that a PesA

hag been granted on Subject. Subjectig Calce of Seourity file numbos

Le 21562% DO/Security further advised that 18 Subject has to be

made witting of Agency Interest 1n HUBRINY D, than a CS$ can be

quickly obtained because an 01 sas previously issued on subjeet...

CHA/ go

Dietribution:

1o - Suby 111e

•J a WuB ops

¿: Sa chrono

BEGET

---

## Page 22

TO

SENDER N'LL CHECK CLAS

ICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

LNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDESTTAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

DO/SA, Mr. Gale ALLEN

Ri: 522-F, 1750 PA ALE.

INITIALS

DIRECT MEPLY

CO

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

Remarks:

Per your phone Espr's

PREPARE REPLY

#EcChiniEnDatIOn

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Subject has the sons per Security's

recerd:

Ple dot me knew 1f I should cenduct traces.

Thank you-

P9-1". 237

FOLD MERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAME. ADDRESS ANO PHONE NO.

DATE

CLASSIFIED

DO/H3 • 5 5.46 HQS Bidge

11 Doc.64

CONFIDENTIAL

Une greateus editions

SECRET

(40)

* 1.8 GONERHEAT PRINTING OFFICE, 10010-898808

SIS:

N022408

---

## Page 23

SECRET

26 AMguNE. 2966

RUORANAN FAL ADIA

AT:110N

800ET

KNPIREICE

• Pro Mouaful Heat

• Enos sepiy!

1: 0D0/31 Mnnoraadua dalosl diclos datd

Do: Trnone hao boms couiatod en

NID Mlee, the O8f100 0s Securlty, CI/VA, Mol IUZ/D8 rodA

moonl af subjoato

Tho 80l Mulo le hold by i4/z/Da os poranost charge.

•CL/O1 umintaine n filo en Bubjeot,whlch uo rorloed aod te remdts are

:tomurded berulti, in s ioperate envlopo, ae diroobment 1o. Lo

- Bneluded ln Atlachmons 3 10 oporasional And 1ivas8sahlne Lformablen

tron ene Offtea of Beourtry and bhe 201 18l0.

ABCRObnt KO. & SA&

¡blogrupalo dusa nhees fervardad by the 088100 of Seewrity

DE POLLONnE DOEPAPRÃO SAPOPAIZION LA SYOR lhe ¿Il MLOs

SECHET

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SECRET

ta nora e de s

minha 18

L Havelop

loiritten

No 1 00800-100/01

- Q/00/l

• Dopa sarino.

SECRET.

---

## Page 25

14-00000

Attachment to DO/HS Menoranta

dated 26 August 196%

COMET

BICIIT

Atrachmeat Ho. 1 to

DO/18 Menora ndu dated

36 ЛитиВ: 1834

. 1.

the Chlef o1 Station

DADjOGE VAS MONTIOROd LA THU LAPOR DIEDAtaDOR DE

as a posalble

CnicientE inFOLE on Jonca to persons In the Dominican

lopablte could be devloped and sarcoted againot the 1ntol

11g0noe Sarvice and the rulias elroles there.

In LPS 1389

and HPIA D41, bord dated 11 September 1950, Subjoot 1a

Tention do a soon pornon sor the borlantag of covert oper

tion in the

Dominlean lepublde Dechuse he was vell known

and conidered dincroet by thone who knew his.

Becure it

le bernorses in the U.s, and the Caribbons ares,, Subjeet

hAd MaT Jerson TOrIS for hin over a perlod of year ho

owed him mone alleglasce.

Bubject's compenion did me

bustave 1n the Doataloan Republlo.

SERDADILE, the Station's

cathet, vas Lastrated to montones sin indirectly through

• cutont who vis

" personilffriend of

BKEDADIR, A comber of the Puerto Rican legiolature, " santor.

member of the sopabllenn (staterood) Party, and very close

to subinet.

Informiion In SubJeot's PRQ II revealor that Do

was ninigred the cryptos? grewis/l.

The casa officor vas

introduard. to Budgoot by one

e etrey octal baate in Maron 1900 (this vue to be

Subjoet°s cover, and there ma no mozetary remuneration).

Sino Bubjeet wan considered a loy! U.S. oftizen, he vas

made VIttIAn Of CURANT'S Intoront in fOrDon lo lie Dominican

IbAnk to this endenvor enthumintlesily.

Although It m

nO CAME Subject onoe served an an honorary Yico Consul

• common preotice for prominent buninessmen In

Its Lerica, he van

not snore to here any soonetlong with

• foretan sacelligense

service.

Ela valte to suBai lay in

ble porsoml knowledge

of persons and isets li the Dominicas

Repualto, partloularly

individualm who travelled there for

local reasons.

no hio nootal and political scarue.

The este offleer de

1h00 dubioet ma

*Intelligene

and."

Istlonl leader whore roel trength 10

(and 1o) no prominent.

and could not wIthstand too mes

vanening of bie postiton, he mould not bo used "asseotig"

a any operacton (in the opindon of tse ense offdcor whe

Vote the gal evolution).

GiLA

WEIGHET

---

## Page 26

AllachnoDi lo. ! to

DO/NY Memorasdue dated

26 AUgUO: 1000

Accordina to Intorntion la CB20AS (Cl/Q1 1110).

• through villind or unitting enployeen, courter nocen

le 9he Dosi=seas Repablde."

ma on doc Lins mo. 1000s1

Catod e May 1900 vere "DO pOrtIDont Idontillablo InfOrmatIM

On 87 MY 1000, MAd A 1101d triCO MOly of thar daTO Ve

"Do deFotOry SIBOId.": The POA VIO STiated 11' MNy 1800 6nd

Cho Al on 11:Cuptonber 1050.

colled on 1l una 34 laret 1081, respoorively.

In nottere to

Bonoons for shone canoellations vore

301 1V9.

An Immotiration ruporE by the 011100 of Boeurity

In 1080 ve

not, enfavorebl?

1? dia mko reference to infon

untion In an FBI report datod 19. May

1060, 10 Vasblogtos, D.C.

Watch sino appoured in the subjeot's 201 1110.. Tale raporE

rostained the collouin laform son!

subjee? reportedly. offerod a.job.to

Blinor Curet. Cuorio, 1 Consunte, Party tuber al

morte lico (bource sot spectliod).

The ial moolvd inforention (source not poesiied)

In 1081 ind 1013 that Subject recedved u11

Iron

oDe funa Antonto Corretjer.

" SOSTAS DONDOS Of thO

merto Rican Intsonaliat Party.

---

## Page 27

BICIIT

ARRAChIODE lO., 1 1O

DO/bs senorandus daiee

36 AUGUL 140A

At eso rognool ol the Juntlee Departmat, tbe

AI. IAdUmIFAAILOt

IDd fInAnelos, Duojoct ropaptedly controllod the

TDE AD:LEFTIE

Etelaa to di t Dogaftios of suettoo colcala

tho mooalea of the saguiry.

no Chle! of 6488100.

ooreing 8o HPIA1900 dated €

Jamuary 1004,

•1 8h

ed6 là hoos on d6 Lceter LiiJ.

Ad chim

mj00s cole the Calos o1 d1

tion tht

Am

consroetion of tre eimablo

be.

waa

sderine

(oomont

and £1468)

tho Doadadenn Ropubllo "M a

o1 sugnontine o1tiatal

penla tanoo

Rarangt private paterp

100.*

Bubgeet 14le 9hat

man "Imporative 1or: all troo

e do all da their Do

nB,10s O1 the Hemlsptere

ver te holp the Doainlean Bepubilo

Doeons a frue Derocrsey and deny ll. lo tho Coumnlata.

BASO VILAL BARl, Printo capiral Eus alBo parsiolpato

Besttely."

Tie' de tho convlotion that prospred Bubjoet

→ considor busdelos the pisato.

•Aecordine to a monorandum to CI/OA dated 37 May 1080, 1800

•V3/UhE, the inqulry had Do elfees on d8a proponed operl

(sooal uno.

One documont in the 301, UYGA-17308 dated ? Hovenber

1089, rewoalm Tiat Bubloct. rar a

neaboi c8 a fidiep

cinlie

Aâorícana uho notlonnily nubaldized MlChOLl (probably aa

:B0t of W/8).

JUAN OAOA (IN 33997), Y DoCember 1951, one

of e sucber si cebles 1a-Bubgeei'y 201 8110, jadicaioo Siai

Bubjeet took tareane Interuss'in Cuban Alfalre aod van more

than villine to obraln Iatornssion on Cuban elenento,

Cuntrai Covor stalt bad i recoro, Pege 2128 catod

recoraing to e docurient fn Sublact ca20d teny 1960

CAE CDUAr

H1l0 P5j lA conbection

Dod no sotsre or diroet interont ln Jubjeot.

MATA 11/3/1RAH'E PON/CA, BUE

•= cB87

---

## Page 28

14-00000

SECRET

71÷65

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

TO: ACTION GRANCH

back. Detach baca

If file no. and title shown are not

et, taless

proper, insert proper file no. below

records

sigalficant

action taken or

and forsard document so RID/AN.

CORBeDtS reguIrITE

preservation.

FROM:

PROPEN FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN BECTION I ON DACE IN APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

-

TO

C/WH/6

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED 'FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

apart worr

14 JAN 1964

in chions detached

erh

BI!

Cy with value?

12.

13.

144

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

LAYS MICROFILM

610g

VEE PARVIQUA

FILE 1I766

WUNNER ISHMANY CODE!

0 20 - 205712

DOCUMENT NUMBER

• MPSA

4 Pan 64

SECHET

01969

misinter

---

## Page 29

DISPATCH

GLASTFCATION

S--C-R-E-T

PROCESSING ACTION

TA FOR LOC

#O

BEFO

Chist, THD

Chief of Station

NO LOUIS REQUIRED

ORRY QUALIFILD DESE

CAN JUDGE FADERIES

FIRONG

Chief of Station

SURECT

Meeting with SKETER 1

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERTICES

Action:

Information

1. COS met with SKFVER-1 In Ponce, P. R. on 28 December 1963.

During general conversation, SKEVER-1 said he was consider-

the construction of two sizeabla

Dominican Republic as a means of augmenting official assistance

through private enterprise and asked COS's opinion of the venture.

COS responded that this was personal decision for SKEWER-1 to make.

3. SKEWER-1 sald he felt that it was imperative for all free

nations of the Hemisphere to do all in their power to help the

Dominican Republic become a true democracy and to deny it to the

Communists.

In this vitäl task, he added, private capital must

also participate actively.

conviction, he said, 1a

what has prompted hin to conder building the cement and glass

plants.

SKEWER-1 enid that he believed the present GODR was

denocratically-oriented and would do a good job in the interval

"botreen the Junta reign and elections for a successor government.

He also praised the selection si Donald REID Cabral to succeed

DE LOS SANTOS.

Diatribution:

@- Chief,

WHD

1 - cos,

REPERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HPSA-1969

CLASSIPICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

201205712

DATE

4 January 1984

NOBTRE MUCHEE

---

## Page 30

14-00000

UNIT :

DATE :

* CLASSIFIED: MESSAGE

JACQUES PRINDIVIL13 spas

2065 .

SECHIT

19.51

BER 19621716

361- 205713

ROUTING

FrOM,

CONF,

INFO .

DIRECTOR

BELL 10

WH 5, s/c 2

INFO

12785 (0urOUT98466)°

CITE DIR

T9 SEP 6I 22

SIO CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT98467

12786

46 ÷

DBIN

Dablo Becruterdet plence syply sos.

REPRODUÇTOI

¿DY OTHER THAN TME ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Nes

---

## Page 31

ORIG !.

UNIT

_EXT

DATE :

ACQUES PRENDIV

1/4/DR&H

2065

19 SEPTENGER 1962

1715

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

# 301-505-712

ROUTING

19 SEP 61

22

45₴

FROM.

CONF,

INFO :

DIRECTOR

__BELL 10

WH 5, S/6 2

10

¡ INPO

: CITE DIR

I ROUTINE

OUT 98466

12785

BAD OP DESRACH

C/S COMMENTI DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO IMZIP CABLES.

REPRODUCTIO; BY OTHER THAN THA ISSUING OPFICE IS PROMISITED,

---

## Page 32

SECRET

(Then Pilled In)

Ho. C-82943

MOHORANDUH FOR: Chie?, HH/L

Operational Approval le hereby granted in the case ofl

., Sor the purpose spealfied in your request

dated

12 AuR 1961

On grantod for use: of subject an aot forth in PRQ Part II.

SEP 12 12 15 PM '51

Thie Approval 18 based upon

Office, and 18 granted under

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date.

11 sort 190

Distribution:

Or18.

to Addres

1 10

Files

SECRET

On no. 124-0001

$ 80

---

## Page 33

SECRET

MEERANDON TO: CE/OR

Attentions

FROM

8 1W/4/7801

BUB TEET

1 0 82499

do Attached for your retention to e ensplted copy of the

Jua Fert JI os debjeot ensa. Il lu pequeted that a fall Operational

Approval bé proonanad on the dabsoot.

8o dab1008 has sos tot born analysed a eryptatya. Iot 0:8100

"211 be advdoed inadiately of any further solden on thie atter.

* Se

---

## Page 34

DISPATCH

Chlef of Statione

EBSSUTISATIDN

SÜCRET

1O

INFO

HO IS BEQUES

CREE QUALIFIED DESA

CAN ADiE INDUAG

FRON

Chief, estern Hendsphare Diviaton

SUBJECT

SKEHER-1 - Clarification of Operational Status

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

ACTIONs As appropriato, per paragraphs to and three.

REY: HPSA-1955 (RYBAT) (27 September 1963)

Do A full Operational Approval vas lasued on 11 September 1961.

for une of SKEVER d as set forth in the PRQ Part II subnitted to lisad

quarters with JU-232 (18 July 1961). Notification of Issuance of the

Zo II the Station judges that the above-cited PRQ Part II no

longer obtains as to Subjest's actual current operational status and

* use (Headquartarg' file on Subject ahows that it dos not e 5°- hia

funding of a Station JiVAVE operation), an up-to date PRU Part II

whould be aulmitted in order to anand the lA 19sued in September 1961.

3: The Station hould be gulded by the provisions of GSI-I-5017

ịth respect to keeping Headquarters inforned of current operationnl

contact with and use of subjeet.

KID OF DISPATCH

Matributien:

8 = C0B.

CHOSS REFERENCE TO

= EJ 4902 2057222

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

CLABSIFICATION

201-205712

DArE

• 5 N0Y 1969

32 Ostober 1963

MOB FRE NUMBER

201-205772

OFFICE

WH/6/DR:PR

ORIGBNATINO

148..

С. і. ілля

CTRHRANATING

ja

EAP,

45844

MAlE

1 18 1 16:4 H'S NAME

198408999S014

C/N1/6/126PR

RID/17

BITANIN!

COMIC STATI

0/WILD

1 Nas6,3

(4U)

WEENVIOUS BOING

DISPATCH

-2-03

---

## Page 35

OAFE

TO

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

578

1.2 AUG 61

DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET.

201-

ROUTING

5

A.UG. 3 01062 51

BELL 10

COP, ADDP/A,

Flo

FU/INT 2,

lOD

CA/EAG, CA/PRQ, CA/PROP, 61/IC 2,

s/c 2

ROUTINE

IN 47500.

PRITY DIR INFO

CITE

DYVOUR 4

T065-3|482,637

MEETING & AUG WITHI

PRODUCED FOLLE COAdEd

No

HAD CONVERSATION 35 JULY WITH FRANK CHAVEZ AFL-CIO

LEADER IN PUERTO RICO: CHAVEZ PROPOSEN_

_ GO DOM REP ACT AS.

CATALYST BETWEEN CONFLICTING FORCES AND USHER IN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT

ARGUED THAT MAN

STATURE COULD SERVE IN PLACE OAS COMMISSION®

FAVORABLY INCLINED IN PRINCIPLE.

IN CONTACT CARLOS

CHARDON, WELL KNOWN PUERTO RICAN AGRONOMIST WHO NOW IN DOMREP AT

INVITATION BALAGUER CONNECTION AGRARIAN REFORMS• CHARDON FAVORS

IDEAL

MEDIATION. (COMMENT,

REQUESTED NOTHING YAUGER

VOLUNTERRED NOTHING. FÖR HUS INFO YAUGER EXPECTS TALK NEXT WITH

& AUGS.

?. CHAVEZ HAD JUST RETURNED FROM SEEING ARTURO ESPIALLAT

IN CANADAO. AS 1.0NG TIME FRIEND ESPIALLAT, CHAVEZ CLAIMS CREDIT

FOR GETTING RAMFIS TRUJILLO RELEASE ESPALILAT. CHAVEZ ALSO FRIENDLY

WITH RAMFIS WHO, ACCORDING CHAVEZ FAVORS DEMOCRATIZATION DOMREP

WANTS LEAVE COUNTRY, LIQUIDATING FAMILY ASSETS AT TEN CENTS

ON THE DOLLAR. ASSETS IN DOMREP ESTIMATED AT 800 MILLION DOLLARS.

COMMENTED THAT IN LONG RUN IT WOULD BE CHEAPER FOR DOMINICANS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 36

CLASSLELED MESSAGE

DUAN 0240

_SECRET

• 1: 7500

PAGE

RID THEMSELVES TRUJILLOS BY PAYING, SAY, FIVE CENTS. ON DOLLAR RATHER

JHAN SUFFER CONSEQUENCES CIVIL WARO. CHAVEZ SAYS HECTOR TRUJILLO

ALSO WANTS OUT

BUT PETAN WANTS CONTINUE DYNASTY, CHAVEZ SAYS

RAMFIS HAS SOLID BACKING AIR FORCE WHICH IS REAL STRENGTH ARMED

FORCES•

HAD BEEN APPROACHED BY OSVALDO T GRIMALDI AND JOSE

ANTONIO SALCEDO AS LEADERS IN PUERTO RICO OF PRD WHO ASKED MONEY

FOR MEDICINES CLOTHING ETC•_

_STALLED BUT IS INCLINED GIVE

SOMETHING TO KEEP ON GOOD SIDE ANY ANTI COMMUNIST GROUP.

• END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TRAN

ISSUING UFFICE IS PROHIBITEO

---

## Page 37

14-00000

SECRET

PRO NO.

This loom must be filled

be CARDB.

cof

for

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATEN NO.

JU-231

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

offleas or appropolaro nuthorisy on tha beddo of dna sons allablo in.

requester

fuendshee

sey provicional opproval may do obtained by

6đ,

and dad.

Thoroslter the unuel

the ap-

asthod to

document or com.

In subject's handardona, ll posalblo) and duo (2y son.

#DOF

possible.

in

de on mumber.

I. PAEUDONY

i no

асорн.

"rido "NA.*

1l addleional space roquirad

SECTION

SKEWER/I

COMTACT AND DEVELOPMEAT

INDICATE MON.

wHEN.

WHERE, UNY, AND BY WHOM SURJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DAVILOPED.

Caen Officer first met Subleot through the uld of

ho,

in charge, 1o witting of COs true status.

ranged & lunch for three at the Zipperlie Restrant. There were two purposes

to meet subjeot as part of SKIPPER's general requirement to know outatanting figures

and to pave the my for contast in scordanes with the POA that already had been ro

queted.

1960 1а J 45.

The initial meeting was In Maroh 1960g the POA was received on 21 June

INDICATE WHETHER SUBJIET COULD

HANDLIND.

I 80, INDICATE TO

wH0d..

BE TURNEO OVER QUICHLY AND IN A BECURE MANNEN TO ANY

RESPONSIBLE

Tes - to any sendor officer (Subject 1e 57 years old)

OFFICER

+0*

• LUBT OPHEN CASE OPOICINO UNO NAVE HANOLEO

Fene

DIVE NAMED IY WHICH PAY MAVE

RAG NO.

I HOW DO

1050a

WHUPN MAY

SECRET

---

## Page 38

SECTION 11

SECRET

NOTIVATION AND CONTROL

esplain.)

No control other than the suasion of patriotiam.

SECTION 111

COVER

COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR

METINGS.

Social cover. Case Officer's cover makes acquaintanceship entirely plausible.

8. COVER USEO BY SUBJECT IN OBTAININE MIS INFORMATION ARD IN. CONTACTINO NIS INFORMANTS.

Fle business and social positions.

INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (WIll work) (lo mortina).

: Witting.

SECTION IV

IITELLIGENCE COMMECTIONS AND TRAIMINO

EXPLAIN

JUBJECT'S AMORA PASY OR PRESENT COMMECTION WITH AMY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INOTE-.TE THE ERTENT

BUCH CONNECTION IS KNOT OVERTLY.

: No known such connection.

BIPLAIN ANY TRAININO SUBJUGT NAS MAD

IN CLA

None

BECTION V

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1.

INDICATE OTHER

AGGOCIATIONa.

PORRID PONIO BUBJECT MOULO BE MONT LIMELT TO CULLANGHATE WITH ENCAUOR DE MI

Such collaboration is in the realm of thuoretical poentuility.

neotion with a foreign rovernment in that he hnu anrvod

• oommon practice of Latin Amerioan buninons men.

1060L001

OR

Only known. con-

SECRET

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION VI

OPERAT: ORAL USE =

CON TACT

IF SUBJECT MAS DEER USTO DE CONTACTIO BEFORE, INDICATE ACCIVITY IN THICH MÈ

= MATION ME ILOS FURNISHED.

AS HUGAGEO AND THE TYPE OF INTON.

No previous use known.

INDICATE NOW AND FROM MADA BUBJECT QATAINE INPORMATIOA.

From hia business and social positions.

That 1s, his normal business and social

contacts supply him with his information.

INDICATE WHAT WAS BEEN TOLD BUBJECT AS TO THE OISPOSITION ON

Subjeet in witting.

FURNISHES.

Д..

DETAIL BUBJECT-S PROPOSIO PI OR CA TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

Subject's valuo Ilos In hla pereonal knowledge of persons and facts in the target

country, and his access to persons having legal reasons to travel to that country.

Also, through him acceas can be had to local persons who may be in a position to

" be useful - wittingly or unwittingly.

DETAIL SULJECT'@ PROPOSEO

PROPAl TYPE USE ON DUTIES.

See Para L Immediately above.

SECTION VI!

PROPOSED LIAI SOM

OR

OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

D. DETAIL SUBJEGT'S PROPORKO LUALRRS TYPE GAMTAGI OR SEKRALIONAL UNEI

A. WHERE SUBJECT IN AN OSFICIAL MEMBER OF A PORGION

GOVE RAMANT,

NA

#. WHEA! BUBJECT IA

AN OPPICIAL MEMAR#

NA

SECTION VOID

AGENCY HELATIONIHIP WITH BUBJECT

BAPLAIN NATURE DO SOROLY AALATIONINIO MITH BUBBETO PiRI PODIMEO, OPPOSITE NUMBER, HEMUGATION, ID ANTI AGENCY

•повставі пнити го вінльсь,

So far da la known, the Cano Offloer 1n the only ARenoy person known to Subioot.!

The solationhip 1a moolal - on a witting banio.

No remuneration ia involved.

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SECRET

SECTION

1X

_ QUALIFICATIONS FOR CTHER OPERATIONS

IADIÇAPE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, DA QUILIFICATICAS PÉSDÉ:SEU dI SUALÁLI MUICH CUULO CGOGELYAPLY BE OE VAIUE

FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

Although Subjcet is an intelligent, well-educated person, he should not be used

directly in operationa. His value

is as degcribed in Section VIL. Furthermore,

SECTION

hds political position prohibit.s involvement in operetions.

15 IT' 19 PROPOSEO TO PAY SUAJEST A NEGULAA

COMMODITIES, SUSSIDY OR OTHER METHOO.

SALARY,

EAMEGM1A

THE WEEKLY AMOUNT. lF PArMENT TO

BE MADE IF EXCHANGE

SPECIFY AND

GIVE DETAILS.

NA

DarLAb

sbject and't

I$ES.

HO! COVEREO MEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Exmuple:

wwwroa. add

• NA

SECTION -KI

CE AND SECURITY

INDICATE

THE FIELO AGRACIES ANL- FIULO FILES WITH INICH SUBJECT'S MAME MAS BEEM CHECREO AND THE RESULTS.

INDICATE OTNER INVESTIGATIVE

TAREN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPMICAS INFORMATION FURMISMED OY SUBJECT.

As an outatanding publie figure, knowledgo about Subject la general and all "Who'a

Who write-ups contain long

articles about him.

1aw24828

WHETHER

OR NOT FROVIBIONAL OPENATIONAL APPIO'AL ON OPCRATIONAL AP.

PROVAL FOR BUBJECT'S UBE MAS

* DATE AP"HOVAL OBPAIAED

BEEN PREVIQUOLY OBTAINEO,

POA

EVALUATE SUBJECT'E CHARACTER, HELIADILITY AND SECURITY, CITINO EVIDENCE IMERE POSSIBLE.

In addition to Section II 1, although a leader in polities, Subject's real strength

1o in his:being an enlightened capitaliat.

One Who's Who description saya "pioneer

In tha Job of humanizing: Induatry". Is a Catholic lay leader.

Has held various

publie

service positions, e.f., Liona Club, Chamber of Conmerce, Counctl of the

Boy Scoutej honorary secrotary of MIT, philanthropiat; etc.

RHPLAIN

ANY #ITUATION ON

CEPOPIRATIONAL

(NDIGIETIN IN MENC MENN ME MEN MEN MNN MENEMN ME FUNUNE FENN

BSCURITY vIEWPOIT.

None known

EGLIA A1I

BUBJECT'S PERSONAL

MAdiNo

UDA OI B'QUOR, DRUGS.

CANBLINO, PARAMOUNE,

Wich Caue Offiner, Subjeot hau been moat sparing in use of liquorg ae a polltiond

publlo figuro any peruonal weaknesnen would have been well alred.

SECRET

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

LECTION XILL

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

1. INDICATE SUBJECT'S MOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC. ETE.

Plays the piano well.

SECTION

*IV

GENERAL

INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILIT, ES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS ME COULO PASS AB A NATIVE

OF A COUNTRY OR

AEGION. OTHER THAN MIS OW.

EXPLAIN,

Subject's English is excellent but he probably would be noted as having been raised

other than in the continental United States.

Information 19 lacking as to hia

foreign language abilities, and such infermation has not been sought in view of

the non-operational nature of his connection with the Agency.

INDICATE WHETHER

INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS I AND 11 WAS'OBTAINED BY RESFARCH, CLANDESTIME ASSESSMENT. PILES.

COn#

PONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

Except for such factual data as place of schooling, Subject is such a prondnent

public figure that general information about him is public knowledge.

TERMIMATION OF SUBJICT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE LAPLAIM.

ROUTINE

36.

NA

SECTION XY

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGENENTS

*IVE PUIL DETAILS D.E, MECOGNITION SIGNALS, S/M MHERE COULO CONTACT BE MADRI IMAT BONA PIDES COULD INDIVIQUAL

MARINE CONTACT UBES

If contaot with Subject were to be made other than through the Case Officer,

the

newly-contacting Officer should exhibit documentary evidence of hia Agonuy.con-

nection and a reasonable explanation of why the introduction 1s not made by the

Case Offdcer....

ICTION AVI

MIGCELLANEQUS OPERATIONAL DATA

AND

ROHANKS

See Section IX 1e

# I GNA TURE

BANISA OPTIGER

•afa

10 July 1961

SECRET

---

## Page 42

$.

SKEWER-1.

PRO NO.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART / - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION-

INSTRUCTIONS:

asly.

if

additional

GENERAL PERSONAL.

DISPATCH NO.

nicest".

Brito "NA

AND PHYSICAL DATA

SECTION !

MAME

& MANF

dierent than Item 1.)

ALIASES.

# I CHHAMES.

TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN MAME ¿STadO TiRO, readon for and DiaGo of woos

#. DATE OF BOTH

17 ÷8580527 17011

ONAL NADITS (LIqor, drude, dambling, paramoure)

B. •PLACE OF DIATH

Fery so1l-mon In camunity of high moral character.

count neconD (Comrt, date, afreste,

Hone

56

OF WAIN

DESCRIPTION (Uno Amerloan atendardo •

APPARENT AOR Od. MEIGHT

PP. 5 105.1

•J• TEETH

COLOR OF EYER

0.0e1

SCARE AND MARRE OR OTHER: DINTINGUISHINS PEATUMES

Soar on

1a1", dheul ho:

DINBRAL APPRADANCE

PROMINENT PEA FURIO

ОТТОА .СООРІРРОМО РЕАРИРЕВ

ATTAIN MANPLEA

1050 von provide

#I GNATURA

07 .

080/b/0)

il.ht

Lander

livel

Урод!

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SECTION 11

CI HI ZEN SHIP

PRESENT CITIZENSHIP

2. MATIONALITY AT DIRTH AND ANY SUASEQUEME CITIZEMSHIPS (Al dillarene daan iradi dol

3. PRESEN:. RESIDENCE (Indicate as omer.

tenant or sub- tanant)

PERMANENT ADDRESS (18 differene than 18em g.)

IA U.D. NATURALIZED CITIZEN, GIVE NAME, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (Countelos, dated and purposes)

Wire, denesueld, calls jusiacau and travele

SECTION 110

PRESEN? OCCUPATION

OCCUPATIOMAL

AND FINANCIAL DATA

TITLE

d.

FINANCIAL STATUS (Barnings, bank depondla,

secuededes and property)

SALARY (POr AnnUM)

1295 123, 300

SECTION IV

ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

1• MENGERSMIP IN RELIGIOUS OAGAMILATIONS

hernan Catholle

PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL- ORGANIZATIONBI POLITICAL

"Hone Chib

American Soclety of Mechandeal rinear,

Member of Tarublican (ptateland) jarty

SECTION

EDUCATIONAL DATA

SCHOOLS

MAN# AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL

MAME OF, COURSE

Pones Pubila. 5080028

Morristons inhonl, lew enrery

loatmolors, tockon, 1a36.

AFFOLRATIONS

DATES ATTENDED

FA0M

DEGREE

RECEIVED

B.Go, .5g

, BANQUAeS

laiduado in

which yau

deprod of

2L LANGUAREE AND DIALECIS

#dAD

UNOIAATAND

No

788

#Q

NO

Spantah

11-g8.010n

---

## Page 44

SECTION VI

INDICATE ANY WAITINO.

TION 041491

SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS ARD INTERESTS

GIVE DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOORS ON ARTICLES.

ALSO MAMES OF PUBLISHENS AND PUBLICA-

irtsole ons dndia:r1al : earedy

irerlosa ciciueshin

Camont 2l snia

Jugar 411d

SPECIAL SHILLO, ABILITIES, MOBBIES BUCH AS MADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.

i1an0 viagins fencingo

...

SECTION WII

COUNTAY

MILITARY SERVICE

DATES

#00#

UMIT

DUTY"

"IDENTIFYINO COUNTRY.

PRISONER,

DECORATIONS,

WIN AND INY DISCHARGED. GIVE DETAILO IP WAN

SECTION VILI

EPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE:

INDICATE CHROVOLUGICAL HISTORY ON ENPLOYMENT LISTINO LAST POSITION MENSE.

1. INCLUDIVE DATES (FCON-TO, & LAPLOYER

ADDRES

TYPE OF WON

8.

BALARY ON LARNINGS

* = *

T. INCLUSIVE DATE (TORTOL&. SAPLOYER

TYPE OF WORK

SALARY OR CANNINGS

INCLUSIVE DATES (PrOmOTOS D.

ExPLOYER

TYPE Of WOM

BALARY OR BARMIMES

TACLUDIVE DATES (TPON-TO) 3 HMPLAYEA

# ТУФ@ Э₽ #О#Н

BALANY OR BARMINOS

INCISIVE DATE ONE IMPOTEN

ALARY OR EARNINGS

MEADON FOR LEAVING

•.. REASON POR LEAVING

REABON POR LOAVINO

REABON PON LEAVINO

ASON FOR LETVINE

INCLUDE AVY COVERNUNT AMPLOYMNIE.

---

## Page 45

14-00000

SECTION

CHECK ONE:

MARITAL STATUS

º1D05EO

SINGLE

MARRIED

SEPARATEL

*• STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

GIVORCHO

ARAULiAD

WIFE

HUSBAND:

DO NAME OF SPOUSE

IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIAO

MORE THAN ONCE.

INCLUDING ANNULMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FORMER MIFE ON MUSBAND

GIVING DATA REQUIREO BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

A.. DATE OF MARRIAGE

B. PLACE OF MARRIAGE

• OLY 1535

"ATTeNTION

BIRTH

7.

"H Parian, iverto isco

RESER

Too i,

ideo

SECTION K

CHILDREN

TEAR

BIRTH

193l

PLACE OF BITE

HATIONALITY AT

1738

Porce, Mierto-Rico

hutto files

"BUDDIQUENT CITIZANAMIPO MELO DY ANY CHILO (AURAlly endle and advo his, or hor, pronent addened,

BECTION

BBUMOROUEAT CITIESE

SECTION AI!

PULL BeAMS

•, GOCUPATION

110999. 01-979

BECUPATIEN

PLACE OF BIRTH

6à0:19

PRESENT DESIGENCE

in Altanbira,

FLACE

#I # TH

• 61:00

10n0 ilco

•iCHG

MATIONALITY AT BIATH

• HAT TOP MITY AT DISTO

Fort rach

---

## Page 46

SECTIOB X181

BROTHERS AND SISTERS

SER

FULL HAME

YEAR

OF

BIRTH

1222

1935

1237

1909

PLACE OF BIRTH

Cares, Merlo inco

care, duarto ileo

conce, fierto lico

'once, verto ideo

1914

conce,

Puerto Alco

"SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS •HELO BY ANY

BROTHER On SISTEN (Identify brothos, of aistor

Be d

adde sea)

MATIONALITY AT BIRTHO

prosant

SLCTION

RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES

AHY GOVERNMEAT BERVICE: INDICATE

AND CONTACTS

SOVERNMENTS ANO POSITIONE HELD.

¡Nene

RELATIVEO, FRIENOS, CORRASPOMDENTS IN U.8. (Baplaia re

NATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.9. (01ve

Mode

ented)

AND

ARLATIOWIHIP OF ALL PERSONG KHOWH

BA CONNECTED IN ANY

#1 TH

INTELLIGENCE

SECTION A

GIBT GLEAR ABBOCIATES. INDIVIQUALO ON GNOUDA

PERSONAL

ASSOCIATION8

LAMEDUS

CATE

---

## Page 47

14-00000

SECRET

6 Auguat 1961

SUBJECTe

Tue Subjoot'a capital holinge are estimated to be over 81, 000, 000, h10

"'antalago are cotinated at $50, 000 per guar.

10 udaly knom throughout the Caribbean and 10 popcito

Sant to STATe

on 8 Qug. 6a1

---

## Page 48

14-00000

SECRET

JU-23=

18 July 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR CHIEF, WH DIVISION

SUBJECT: General - Operational

Spec1f1o - Submitting PRQ Part IT on Subject JW-45

REFERENCE:

JW-84

In compliance with Reference, the requested information

18 herewith submitted.

nologurel

PRA Part Il

SECRET

L

---

## Page 49

SECRET

Noно 50.:

bate

5 June 1961

ENO ANDIM

RECH

SCEJECT

.

..

Cater, WiD

Goneral •

specific

Subject of Faferences

ACTION REQUIRED:

(Roterence

. Do DIR 01693 (Ous 71937)

Do Jules

The operatlonal use of the mbject of the references wa

requested by ODIBIX on 1 June 1961..

In view of KUBARK's previous

contnot with the mbjeot and probable future operational interest

In the subject,

STONESET has requested KUBARK's maintainance of

the mibject's olearanoe.

8.

To completo the subject'a clearance for full operationl

approval, you are requented to provide as promptly as posalble the

roguinite

PRQ Part II Information. Enclosed herewith are tro

copies of the appropriate form.:

FID U DISPATC

•Attnohment

An stated

SEGRET

---

## Page 50

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

•INVERNAL

'E ONLY

• CAN DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT:: (Optionad)

FROM!

FI/DC/ISR

1613 1

TO: (Officer designation, room number, end

boliding)

WH/3/Puerto Rico

Atta:

NO.

DATE

1 June 1961

DATE

INCEIVED

PORWARDED

OFFICERS

-Rm 1-004 Barton Hell

bira

Drew e line acress column after ech comment.)

Attached for your subject's 201

file.

mini.

dabaled to

stoling Stareset

parlaper ant.

need angI.

File Strain

Lit

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

761-205.115

INTERNAL

UNCLASSIPIED

---

## Page 51

14-00000

SECRET

(Then Pilled In)

DO NOT USE THIS SPACE

I SAM NO.

ISR. 1013 1

TRACE REQUEST

SPASTRA

1 8077

PIS CAL SEOUS VIEN MUCK IS COPTED

DOU HIR 5200.10

90786451

— Department of the Army

DATE

3395

8o1 no. 24 May 61

325 712

ALIASES AND/OR SPELLING VARATIOUS

None Indieatad

OF BIRTH

PLACE OF GIRTH

CITIZENSNIP

PRESTRY ADORETE

Twist. infine

OCCUPATION

Mechanical Engineer

PRESENT EMPLOYMENT

TRAVEL

RODITIONAL PERTINENT: IDENTIFYIMO DATA

MIY graduate - 1921 - Mechanical Engineer

Manter Degree, MIT, 1925

Called Arm

1 June 1961

"Bubject is being utilized by & member of tha

Interogency Source Register and has been duly

rogistered as such.

¡Abova confira telecon of 1 June 1961' between

of your offico.

IERN-1395

WH/3 has sperteril interent

7×2056

Shutt sto

Haee

Liste

Repo

5/25161

DKM.

ore. all, was lies,

SECRET

"PRIORTY"

SC/148

---

## Page 52

UNIT :

EXT

DATE •

TO

FROM DIRECTOR

CONP,

INFO

i i.1.1

WH/3/DR2H

3054

20 SEPTEMBER 1960

655

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

Fl, F1/INT 2, S/C 2

201-2057:2

CasH

SEP 20

DEFERRED

RELUNGLE SECKE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

INITIALS

INITIALT

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO

CITE DIR

188 J4.52

19%

01693

01693

REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN REF.

END CP MESSAGE

Mh/Carments

WHD

AVIN®

AGYUCNTIGATINO OFFIC

¡PRODUCTION

OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Copy Ne

---

## Page 53

SECRET

Perso Hs.: Jinin 52

Date

* 13 July 1960

BE ORANDUM FOR

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief, WHID

General • Operational

Specifle Subjeot of J4

ACTION REQUIRED:

Reference

Tou are requested to contact Subject as soon as possible and on a

contiming basle for Information on the internal political situation 1n

SECREU

---

## Page 54

SECRET

DR

-45

205712

20

in'e

no 1960

MEL OR AIL'I FOR & harren 3. LAUGEP.

FROM.

SUBJECT

& Chief, WHD

& Goneral

Operational

Specifie =

(6-82943)

SCTION REQUIRED: See paragraph 2.

Reference

E75-13

You are advined that Subject was granted provisional operational

approval on 31 May 1960 for the purpose of assessing him as a possible

source of information on the Doninican Hanublla, and for determining the

2. To complete Subject's clearance for full operational approval,

nora lo to provide as promptly as posalble the requialto Pid fart II

SECRET

---

## Page 55

14-0000

201-205712

17119s

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MENORANOUH FOR: Chief, WH/3/DR&e7

Attn!

C-82943

SUBJECT

REFERENCE:

Your Memorandum, Dated

4 May 1960

A Provisional Operetional Approval is granted for the use of this Subject

as set forth below.:

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grante the same

authority; on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority

granted in ar Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA.

It 1g

based, however, only on preliminary file checks and Investigation and 18-sub

Ject to a further final review when all investigation 1s completed.

To process the Operational Approval, Pull Information (comploted PRO

Parta I and II) must he submitted as soon as possible and not later than 1x

An Operational. Approval will follow whin nll

Investigation le completed and upon the receipt of atlainctory PiQ Parto I

and II. Cancellation must be requested 1f use of Bubject by Interested Di

viola

61/OPIRATIONAL APFROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

31 May 1960

ada

7. 00 125 мев

SECRET

81. 35220200

?,!.

20707

---

## Page 56

SESSET

27 May 1960

ODICRANDON FORE

Catas, CI/CA

•*

CT/OA Memoranches, cam Subjeet, dated

39 Mry 1960

In reply to fred or hererone, enla Divalen doe

o6 bellovo the Information therela procludes onalderation

feet for possibio opirational use.

derogatary Inferntion regerding Sabjeeto.

do locurding fra 1 ot Refereno, thin Diviaion 10 not*

Interontad in the investigation of ponible intraution el thi

anti-trust Im by Subjeet. Connequently, It 1u requasted

Ent 61/09 notify the Orites el socurity to thie efteet..

SECRET

---

## Page 57

SECRET

25 May 1960

MEDRANDUN YOR: Chief, WE/3/DRAH

C-82943

1. Attached for your information la a copy of a FBI memorandum

received this date fron the Office of Security.

Please advise

CI/OA an to whether or not the information contained therein would

tend to affect Subject's operational use.

2. Review of Subject's file Indicates that Sleld trace resulte

have not yet been received from your Divieson.

Please forward at

your earliest convenience for further. POA processing.

3. The Office of Security, unless notifled to the contrary by

I/OA, will continue 1ta investigation, following the FBI lead

provided in the last paragraph of the attached memorandun. •

chief, cl/dA

Attachment:

FBI Rpt ded 19 May 1960

SECRET

---

## Page 58

SECRET

P.1l00 10)

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

DATE

TO:

€ no.

17 Hay 1960 ada

829k3

FROM:

WH/3/DR&H

Chief, CI/CA

In order that further consideration can be given to your request for approval in

this case, it la requested that you furnish this office the information checked below:

TRACES

•GRAPHIC INFORMATION

INTERROGATION

22. GA4

No decon field haces

CHon so adinsed 25 Way to.

1 40 0

---

## Page 59

067907724

10%

FROM &

The soply on your lion ider toqunst

100951

13,44%

---

## Page 60

SECRET

¡MARE, DO DIRA LITERS ANO IN DINAL DICERS

c-82943

?. ALIASES.

VARIiNT SPELLINGS, CIE MUMBERS, ETC.

SO BIRIN DATE

BIRTH PI

S. CITIFEI

o. PRESENT

ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

I--

lochanteal engineer (degree fro

immahmette Institute of Technolog

D. MILITARY SERVICE

SERVICE ARM, COUNTRY

SPECIALTY

Unkincor

OCCUPATIONS

RESPONSE TO GREEN LIST

REQUEST N° 100951

TATE OF RECUEST

A Miny 2960

REQUEST FROM

NAME OF ORIGINATING OFFICER

OFFICE DESIGMATOI

ROOM, BUILDING

wy shall

EXTERSION

1005 Barton Hall

2056

1W. WAS CONTIBUING SEARCH REQUESTED?

- YES

15. TYPE OF ALQUEST

I FIRST TIME SUBMITTEO

-ADDITIONAL DATA

•COVER

16.

INTEREST

IN SUBJECT

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

I OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

17. INFORMATION REQUIRED

LOCATION:

DATES

LOCATION

DATES

121tks

infant "l

#O

10. DESCRIPTION

11. SPOUSE.

12. OTHER

1J. OTHE

ACTIVITY.

7910 105220a6

457241 H07

110.23

Merche

10812-А

(NEIGHT)

(MEIGHT)

155

09228.

Ma 13 3 3m

(EYES)

(MAIR)

- Военна

(RACE)

(OTHER)

4- Does left check

1211

TACH EXTRA SHEETS WHIM MEEDED

INSTRUCTIONS:

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

lone 60140

SECRET

SEE 681-10-7

101

---

## Page 61

14-00000

SECRET

16197 269

CaTE

TO:

FROM:

FI/D Чи

Nosed 1

Діло

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FU/D BIOGRAPMIC FILES.

A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED MERETO.

..: "

WITH THE LIMITED IDENVIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS LIABLE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

FI/D MASTO PerEAMerU ORMATION ON SUBJECT, IF A CONTINUING SEARCH WAS

REQUESTED IN SECTION 14, IMFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO

YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

.::

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

and song) cocaine watered

eno 1e 63548006090099200209

MADIS

MOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUEDECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, TMIS SHEES, WITH THE FOLLOMINE CANGELLATION

MOTICE COMPETED, SHOULO BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOURSFILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO NUT TIE UP FI/D'S

ACILITIES MITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS MOT REQUIREO

1A5677

N5173

%. 70:

FROM:

F1/0

DATE

MAME

oFFICE dESIcHATOR

ROOM, BUILOIRG

"i071

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 62

?

TO

Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT

ATTENTION

SECRFT

6032433

ROON

1021

CCD FILE NO.

5=3, p. 2129

BADG.

Barton Hall

After operational approval is recnived, and prior to making

arrangements fo; initial contact thereunder, you are specifically requested to

confer with CCD/NC concerning other Agency interests possibly affected and the

advisability of additional coordination.

CÓPY TO

CI/OA

1678

DATE

11 May 1960

CEO CONCURRENCE

13370

---

## Page 63

SECRET

/ then

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUATEN

COLLABOT ICENTIFICATION

"A FILE NO.

SOVACE DOC. BYWHOL MA

DAY!

F. Terer cavera

DATE OF HER-D. EVALUATION

ANALYST

DATE PROCEsSE

18. CHOSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

YOCANT DIEDITION

THERE IS A RESTRICTED CI/OA FOLDEN ON THE SUBJECT

IP TEAS 202 END UNDER CASHS.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO,

701-365912

18. 40

---

## Page 64

14-000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR

APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

1010 10101

CI/Operational Approval and Support DivIsiOn

Security Support Division/Orfice of Security

SUBJECT:

(True name)

MA 08 8610686

GaTE

A May 2960

HEV J/DREI

В x2:2:ж6

200-105772

PROVISIOnaL OPE

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PHOVIBIONAL COVAT BECUBITY APPOTAL

BECURIPY

SECURITY

APPROVAL NOB L14180»

SPICIPIC ANEA OF USE

FULL DETAILS OF UST

no FILE me.

TYPE

ACTION

REQUESTED

PROPELETANY APPROVAL

SETAHT

COMENT MADE CHEC

SPECIAL InQUInY (SO fold laventidotion)

INDIVIDUAL

IC1A48

OR

ACTION REQuESTED

INVESTIGATIVS COVER

o8 U.a.

GOVRANMENT INTEREST IN MIMY

CIA

INTERNET 1A MIM?

LIMITATIONS

ON COVINAGE DENIACO IN THE SECURITY OFFICE

INVESTIGATION

YES

%:.

STIGATION GUTOIDE CIA, EXPLAIM PULLY

ATTACHED

• IID: COPY APTACHED

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

1989 1: BILL DE FOSSARDEO

GREEM LIST ATTUCHEE, NOI

FIELD TRACES

RECORD

ATORY

INPCRUATION ATTACHED, WITH. EVALUATION

INFORMATION OF VALUE

HOT INITIATIO (Bagionalien;

RI TRACES (1

RECOND

normalien and valuation Altached)

and Braluation Al tached)

3149-0100697994

TEETENSION BIONATUNE OF MANEN CAPEP

8os6

3M4/3

BECRET

DEROGATOAY

DEROGATORY

12 #

Money

---

## Page 65

VIA:

DISPANCH MO._EPSA -2529

SES AI

CLASSIFICATION

OCT 1 3 1957

TO

8 Chief, WEr

FROM : Chief of Station

SUBJECT: GENERAL - Operation

i appane FIQ Part Il

DATE:

Attached 1a PIA Part I os iubjesto. PRO Part II 1121 follon it a latar data.

Attachment a

FER Pt I (4 eve)

PIQ Pt II, Under Separate Cover

37. October 1951

Matrioton.

- Headquarters, /att

MACING 51-20A

SECRET

CLABSIFICATION TO DAPY

501-205712

---

## Page 66

14-00000

Inatruction:

"SONAL RECORD QUESTIONSAIRE

PART I • BIOURAFEICAL INFORMATIOE

Write cleariy.

Ansver all queationa completely.

If question does

not apply, vrite "not applicable"

Attach blant pages 1f additional space le nooded.

Middle

Last

_HPS/FRQ/213

juld Name

First

₴.

Hane In native script.

J. Name at birth (1f different fron 1.).

:*. Al1a808, aicknames, logal changes (State brioply,time; reason and

place of use.)

5. A. Date of birth

• D. Place of Dirth.

6. Prosent eitizenship, race 18 appropriate

V. Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (1f Aifferent

• Iron 6.)

8. Present residence (Ovner, tenant, aub-tenant.)

Oner

Reins Nore Sto 12, Poneo, Puerto Pivo

9, Pernanent address (11 diffurent from 8.)

10, Present occupation (full title, "alary etc.)

= Over 25,000.

Naturalization of subject or of close relatives in the United Stated.

/(Qive date and name in which certifioato granted.) -

2• Rolatives, Iriende, correspondente In United Staton. (Explain ro-

391501 03-081

501-205-212

2223 66 4244

---

## Page 67

ta-ender

13. Father - full nane occupation, present residence, yeur aná place

of birth, natlonaltty at bIrth and aubroquent nationalities.

1k.

Mother - sane Information an 13.

15. Wife (or husband). - full name, maiden neme, date and place of birth,

dnte and place of sarriage, nationallty at birth and any subsequent

mationalities, present residence, divorco, annulment.: (Give data

fer all previous marriages.)

16. Children - full names, sex, year and place of birth, nationalty

it birth and any subsequent nationalitien, present rosidence.

---

## Page 68

HPS /PRO/243

18, Relatives in service of any goveranent, names and positione bold.

19. I1et all official identity pepers hold with dates, numbere, place of lesue

and duration of validity.

20.

Religion - degree practiced, nemberahip in religious orders

lomen Catholle.

21: Present and past politieal affiliation

Repablican (Btatehood) Partye

22. Travel outaide country of prement residence - country, dates,

Tarpo, Tananuela, Caba.

Buninens and travel.

23. Iduation - nehool, location, course, Cogree, dates

Pond Per 8 ab, on serve.

Mamenchwatts Instituto Of Tacheslogys BoB. le MoBo, Machenlcal Bagineer.

24. Languagos and dialecte (Indicate propsolancy so good, fair, poor.)

Language Bpanted Speak I Resd 8 !

Undoretand

Underntand =

__ Vaderstand _&

"tr

201-205712

---

## Page 69

c4-a0n0i

EPS /570/243

23. Military service - dates, country, unit, rant, duty, where

services performed, decorations, when discharged, why. Olve

dotallo 11 over priaoner of var

26. Present and pant membership in organizations (profesional, 0oc1a),

politteal, ote.)

Kong Claba®

Imartoes Boodoty Mecharion! Sagineers.

87: Special ak1118, ablilties, hobbies (radio, photography, ote.)

Plano playings fending.

„Financial utatus - earnings, bank: deposite, securities, property

Capitel over 81,000,000.

Horningo over $50, 000, Jearly.

69. Saployaont history - typo of vork, nalary, dates, employero, sa-

'", seniona for loaving, Inolude enployment by any, government.

702052

L

---

## Page 70

29. (Contimed)

30. Has subjeot done any writing? Give detaile Ineluding titlen of

booke, artiole, publishere, datoe.

Colon ens Indentrint Damerney

Anerloan 01t 30n821p

Cement Planta

Sugar M11.

3ão. Inut persona living at same address, close associates, (arilviduale or

eroupe,) correspondente at home and abroad.

T.4m+

201-205712

---

## Page 71

14-00000

HPS/P70/ 2J

33, Coure rocard = court, dato, ertooto, chargoo, puniabmento,

pontancoo, acquittalo, denarification, ote..

Jione.

3to Dencription (Une American atandarde of noasurement, 18 poseiblo.)

Apparant i8o_ 50

8eseht_ 51 77=

8т00-Bro.

10e • nhape-

Complesion.

ovel

Wnite

Malo

ponture - Btralent

Welpht

255

Teoth

loos

Hair.-

Boage.

On last ahont benn

Bu1ld

Blendes

Coneral appearance

Proninent features.

Other Identifying festures.

35. Other mincellaneoue biographioal dats and coumente.

6

201205912

49927

---

## Page 72

Sab feet

'* can kand

Intruction,

AIRBONAL RECORD. QUESTIONIA IRE

PART I - BIOGRAFHICAL INFORMATION

Write clearly:

not apply,

Attach blank sagar 1° additional

HeS POLLIS

If question does

f. rull Hame.

?. Name 1n native seript -

Jo Nam at birth (18 differeut

1. Aliases, aicknames, legal changes (State briefly timo, reason and

place of une.)

3, a. Date of birth.

b. Place of birth

Present citizenahip, race

1f appropriate

7. Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalitios (18 different

from 6.)

Present residence (Owner; tenant, sub-tenant.)

9. Permanent address (18 different free B.).

10. Present occupation (Pull'titia enlam ato li

11.

Over $25,000 "

Nnturalization of subject or of clone relativen in the United States.

(Oiye date and name in which certificate sranted.) -

12. Nolatiton, friends, correspondente in United States, (Explain so-

"iid.

201112

Hu 100 e

MAY 1000 -1-064

---

## Page 73

14-00000

TReL

15. Father - full nane oceupation, present residence, year and plece

of birth, pattonality at hlrth mat ashament nationalities.

Born is Cube 1822-

fue 1,

14.

Notner

-вона і

1879.

Decersed.

15. Wife (or husband) - full rame, miden name, date and place of birta,

dato and place of marrlage, nationality at birth and any dubaroues

nationalition, present residence, divorce, annulmer

(Give date

for all prome

Bema July E, 1905, San German, Puerto Rico.

Птень e1

10741D

Prot

16. Children - full names, sex, fear and place of birth, nationality

Fat birth and any eubsequent natlone

present residence.

Bute 18KT TRic

281938

Amensis:

17. Brothero and aintere -fame Information an 16.

Guça 1902=

Baca 1905 -

190 2-

Bore

1808

18/4

Americe

Can it d

---

## Page 74

14-000

1B. Rolatives da servico of uny goverament, panes and positions bell.

Neip...

19. L10t sll offlelal Identity papors hold with dato, mmbers, Alace of som

1812=

80. Relielan • dague precticed, mender alp la follitous truer

Roman: Catholie -

trained alar

i soon tap decent

81. Present and 'past political affillation

Republicos (Stutilase Party.

82. Travel outaide country of present renidence - country, detes, :

purpose, people and firms vieited

#: +34510193973

Euripe, Venezuelo, Cuba.

Boseness &7ra0el.

199,07.*

2dtdoS9 10/::100.2051

Cot Satu

23: Eduention - chool, location, course, degree, deten

Wir Ponce. Pidlie Sehools.

Morristown School: New Versey.

Mess, Trot. of Technology - B.S, MS. Mention

24, Languagou and dialecte (indicate profielency in good, fair, poor.)

Language Speach speas Read v

_ Understand

Angungo Englesh, speak -

_ Underutand

Anguago Fresed spoak -

v. Read

, Understand

War ad

---

## Page 75

23.

Mastery service - dates, country, mit, rant, duty, ubera

sorvices performod, decorationa, whan diacharged, say. Give

detailo 18 ever prinonor es var

:::

...=.....

S6. Presént and post ne

whip in organisation (profenional, social,

political, oto.)

Lions Clubs.

Amendu Society Mechanied Engusions.

no 708.1.1606)

4951x3

87. Bpecial abille, abilities, hobbies (radio, phocography, ete.)

Prano playing. Fernig:

88, Jinancial statue - esrnings, bank deponite, securities, property

Capital. over 84,000,000°

Earners over 8859000 yourly.

29, Imployment kietory - ture of work, aslary, datee, employers, at-

•, reasona Sos Leaving. Include employment by any government.

---

## Page 76

29. (Cor

#china

- 2190a

30. Ine nubject done any vriting? Give detaile Inoluding titles ol

- Doore, artiolos; publlobero, dates.

maine.

Patretes

04.

Industrial

Denactory.

Paoneces

MO. 104t

Cement Plants.

Sagger.

Mills.

31. Ilet persona 11ving at same address, close associates, (Individuale or

groupe,) correspondente at home and abroad.

32. Ilot five e

L

---

## Page 77

33. Court rocord • court, dato, arreta, chargos, pualelmente.

sentanoes, neguittalo, denasification, oto.

None:

3A. Dosoription (Uso Anerican etandardo ol teneurocent, il ponaiblo.)

Age

53.

Apparent a80 2,50

101eht 5'-21

Boers

soo- chepo Qual.

Complesion

Wlite.

Posture -

Welght

strell

195

Footh

Helr.

Всаго -

an left chook dee

Bu1ld

Slender.

General appenranoe

Prominent featurea

Other Identifying sesturen

35. Other incollaneoue biographioal data and coumento.

Mass

- 022

28.27

Gener

DaFrase te

21422

2 5:

12231

500)

---

## Page 78

VIA

I SECRET

dissicanon

SP..

50, 04108, MM

woe: Cares of 9i00

peraties

DAT -

15 4:711 2:57

Raternces do WPS-1-197, I9 June 19558 B. WOn-SHh; l Eost 1958

Restos Ragufrado: Boo part. y

PROTE

The Blation herole onlines

• that 1ê belloves to be the cargoca

for cotert

operations la

Iscluded 10 a

21at of sosete mich the Slition has for coranging operators, ca

mall an operational leads, the potentiallies of sales lie ciat.: a

lo Investicating, dolles Raken or conterplated in sugaris to fi

•$ there assora or leado, la also sat forth.

ports 11ll be Sonarded to Headquartore on dorelor ant 08 1218

program

Do Puriant to Inotruettons Elven tel

Jat Headguarters; the

•Stutton has born to motivato the persona lated la Palerence Doo

Ress. they

aro otill avallablo, and to discreetly ascertada iron local contacts fürther •

8107a220nl Lardso

There follor a report on the propresa mado by te stat n

roturne

patienta nlan of netion to dogle third coutry TUTUES orretion

- tarsoted Inmarily againat

I 18, a 30110R3:

Ae

POUrA SITINULE (Operational Approval pranted in 1522? 12

letoLop persons a

can chior diat area On a repular 20518.

(A) EXPAS han boes contegrad end ectised of

the setiration

of operations arainet L

It st be

pointed out that

Expansis attitudo has cooled ormhat town tacing

active part ta opera-

= geole tristrates brenue of the song porin

1n which be tus atti ated

en minters centact with nasate and, at the sam

losinformed that

here 13

CH 188 51-28A

KAPOK

21-6-4°

---

## Page 79

SECRET !'"

wita

OjoLlocA ad dE LA tOlioTd dias to Nila sars clE La e1-a.

(a) A sirles of all of the periors seatlered la

(2) Another suggestion by SEDULE uhieh one accopted ves that

toro, ho handle antsy frosL

• Bola of there we are de co dato clearance ston

•"Ca) BERATILE 111 Interview these nea fer operationa

entl

n1th!

han detori:

(ai Je so Delfored idviseblo al this timi to sound out.

Jargech blo former colleagues, dies rill be done la the near fature:

seartatn the true assete they have within

fional mort load,

5': Also at the nest meting, SIonAMES Mill be roguested *

contae?

la Ponce, Merto Rieo, shore potentia, 10

secorabad in Reference do :

thinen local concedes develop a cada os rons continencale

Locatod In

That would have sit: ins

Te assuar Intelligars rotania» (Picase, nola it 1a, not sue intention of

In-dada soçard, the folloulng 18,05

SECRET

1478111

875- -9223

L

---

## Page 80

14-0000

: 301902322

mOM

Ch108, hD

Chias of seatson,

REF

inside

7091, 23 Jun 55

Denialean Republie Siluation Report.

Por Headquartere Infersation, the following 10 a resus el eurren.

nearsal that 10 matatinid la order to keep reference up to date and appla

solo should the occasion use.

remains the daneo

curtain personnal changes

outdate

section,

Part

I1 al

rofernon. Under Part bo, do

M1 a

one, Objac

18kg

Had in

bronce would be correet vere

ta Station ag

tha

Station

condueting. ope

010

"olding ary

a0t1v1t108

Chin direction in abeyane

per

чі cua

correspondence on

019j00t 18

802% that me should re

imaka.

"courslaly rogleet the 8t0-

present noculty!.

being propared for

Che

8. 2181

Plenantation V!

operations

wherr the

cocaadon arteel.

• Jurtharo

that Huidquartere may be

cognisant of

the

Station's

current setitia?in fulfilling thaae tanka, there

10

Inaluded

sore current lintine of the covert annote miintained des to

antation of operations.

mho are setivo 1aL

Developing andiraintaining background infermation on perione

Jwho, should the

occasten arses would be potential agent asteriale: Should argthing. happen

"to the prisont fortoo

Juan of thana persona would

undors todiy po tur

thiamnton on the

Der o fe prosend forarrans an thel

and who have quads

Beations: Inieatng that they are potential agent malarial and mishe do paldod

• ppon do Gul in sur borals ahould the med artee.

PAINEX

89: 1184

22-6..1

1060168

---

## Page 81

14-00000

1M-941

Tha Station foolo Chat 1n direeting 110 afforco la lolo eno

¡abere diructions, 16 mill har at lous a good acarcing polna unen epeira

dene dn

be fin.

anco, aid of thene eperationa vould be

worted arca out olde.

Macada la Pur provous correepende

Jutaliaana erird country ne chodo.

Ine sualion dode dos Delloro

hos ary of the prospecelte secolo, other

chan ski DADoLa, Bhould benen

Dare af our lataret Io Thea

•an. fellonas

A eurons liuting of ansera avisablo do el the prosono dato 1o

SARDANDLE a SiCUREION SO Che BANO de ChAS nOLOd Un POPOFo

onese Ho 1o st111 conaldared a vory nood chosce an à tuture l/A for cheee

operazIone

Ho enntimes to mini

tein contact with

and to keep kimaol

booatod in

are of thair del so malas eu

•S enplognanto. Subjuet has becone loue

'po subfect da aliti arellaulo throunhlso piade, "'

Contel with hin da malatinad through SanAnLe.

1 t yes.!

, **.

in o duo i

MANTA romaina so lio present portelon, hover, ho la anni

aldored detror alluntod to assiat che station

A perlo"

11n a conteol of Station personal.

•Mo 1e 1n

tho advereling buoinasa and han prertovaly hmdlad eno aocount for she pelo

Lesty af

Ho do nou planine

8e epon an errice in

Prioentaso ha da plaunina a

un contecte are striatly busings, int he hae 1at. tho L

mehinatons.

They are apparently natsafied vith ente arrengamento Dubjeed.

hos indleaton i millirignoes lo repore anything of interess hat deman to haa

attention in his dealinge vich and. in the

The Atarlon

bollore that hin prentasl notantial 1n that ne a

Ho de carosel do urgent with chat in

obe: 8840901000.ing

J for the mont parte

Tho pocosbilaty of parentiad agens maturias anona

---

## Page 82

IPS 2A

PARe Trea

ener, leadero lo conardarad is do goulo, done ilo group aro eho 80lon1ne1

•8.

1. 200Г

(5)

: 86)

(7).

: (3)1

"Persona ish olliolas concerto in chi

---

## Page 83

IPSA-92

•• Pago Your

(all

UI I

: (5) [

• (6)

(1).|

---

## Page 84

cra-idotor

• •(2)

uight not be

knon to. the Station

11 Beptembor 1956

Me tribntion

sol3radgaas tose.

• •14

d: /

: 110 05.ep 1 45°66

93-6.

---

## Page 85

14-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

(When filled io)

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

DATE

-2440/51:

1OОм NO.

ACTION

TO

RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

670738

TELEPHONI

FROM

RI/AN

INSTRUcTIONs Form mus be typed or printed in block letters

SACMON & List 201 number, same and identifving data in the spaces provided All lane aliass and variants (including maiden name, it

applicable) muse be lissed.

If the identilying data varies with the alias une, a separate farm must be uned.

Write UNKNOWN for items vou

are unabir to compirte.

DICTION in List crypionym or preudonym. il assigned.

If true rame is masitive, obtain 201 number from 201 Control Lest and complete

Section I and Section. 1ll.

Dn a separaid form, enter she 201 number and comples Sertion Il and Section III. Submit each form separasely

MeMON Ila To be completed in all cases

201 ND.

SECTION I

2050/2 H8SA -01519

RECORD

CITY OR TORN OF MEN

SECTION 11

CATIONYA

SECTION I1I

MOONS CO NTY INST

SCHUPETEY OF MESMEN

PR

COMENTE

10. ACTION DEI

WH/3AN

12.

THIRD COUNTINY INTEREST

PUNCHED

001-

205212

PERMANENT CHARGE

CIA INTERNAL USE ONE

---

