# 104-10048-10193

## Page 1

1004-10048-10193

C/SAS

2 0 1:88 1393

MEVORANDUM FOR: Stanley J. Grogan, Assistant to the

Director

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

Robert SWANNER and Robert THOMPSON,

Pilots Allegedly Shot Down over Cuba in

December, 1961

: A. Article by Al Wood in Orlando Sentinel,

12 March 1963

B. Article by Al Wood in Orlando Evening

Star, 12 March 1963

.C. Article by James Buchanan in Pompano

Beach Sun-Sentinel, 12 March 1963

1. On 19 December 1961, this Agency became aware of

some aspects of the incident described in referenced reports.

According to our records, this was the third overflight of this

kind attempted. Cn 21 October 196l, a leaflet drop was apparently

made over Camaguey, Cuba by U.S. citizens. On 8-9 December

1961, authorities at Nassau intercepted and stopped a plane and

U.S. citizens preparing to conduct a similar leaflet drop over

Cuba. On the weekend of 15-17 December, another overilight

was conducted by U.S. citizens and from this attempt, two

pilots and a plane failed to return.

2..

Investigation by U.S. authorities of the activities

cited above has been hampered by a welter of conilicting siories

from second and third hand sources, as well as by inconsistent

statements from alleged participants.

However, the following

sunimary appears to be accurate.

William JOHNSON has said

that he,

Robert SWANNER,

and Frank FIORINI made the 21

October overflight.

Alexander I. RORKE, & free-lance newsman

and photographer who has long been on the fringes of Cuban exile

activity, has claimed that he flew on this mission as an observer.

On & December, Robert SWANNER was intercepted in Nassau in

an aircraft chartered from Sunny South Aircraft, Inc. • Fort

File Fearini

D 8 0 2277

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Lauderdale. SWANNER was met in Nassau by JOHNSON, RORKE,

and FIORINI. This group tried to get a permit to fly to Great

Exuma Island, but the permit was denied; the plane impounded,

and SWANNER fined $500. 00 for illegal entry inasmuch as he had

no authorization to fly the plane outside the U.S. On 10 December,

a search of Norman Cay produced nine packages of anti-Castro

leaflets similar to the ones used in the 2l October operation.

On 14 December, THOMPSON flew from Melbourne, Florida to

Fort Lauderdale in an Apache aircraft, No. 4062P, belonging to

his employer, J. David FINGER, and allegedly chartered by

JOHNSON for an eventual flight to Nassau. In Fort Lauderdale,

THOMPSON picked up JOHNSON. It is not clear whether SWANNER

and FIORINI were picked up in Fort Lauderdale, Tampa, or West

Palm Beach, but it is certain that at some point JOHNSON left

the group and that FIORINI, SWANNER and THOMPSON flew to

Andros lland. On the evaning of 17 December, FINGER reported

to the FAA at Melbourne that Apache No. 2062P, with THOMPSON

as pilot, was missing. On 18 December, RORKE, FIORINI, and

JOHNSON reportedly chartered a plane in Miami for a trip to

Bimini and Cay Sal. RORKE allegedly identified bimself as a

CBS photographer looking for photographs of pink flamingos.

The plane flew a criss cross pattern over Cay Sal and returned

to Miami International Airport.

There has been no information

concernitig the waereabouts of THOMPSON, SWANNER and Apache

No. 2062P until March 1963, when the story attributed to an

unidentified Cuban farmer appeared in the referenced preas items.

As to the question of ClA involvement in the activitlea

of the men cited herein, JohNsoN, floRIn, and horne bave,

at various times, claimed ClA sponsorship, although RORKE and

FIORINI also intimated that they themselves were the sponsors.

fIn fact, none of these men had any sponsorahip by CIA whatsoever.

Sergio RCIAS Santamarina, CASTRO's Ambassador to London from

1959 until Juzs 1960, at which time ROJAS broke with CASTRO

because of conviction of the latter's communist orientation,

appears to have been the Cuban exile uponsoring the operatione.

Although this Agency supported

for certain operations

of an entirely different nature, air operations or anything con-

nected with them were not included. The policy which guided this

---

## Page 3

13-00000

3

Agency during the months in question permitted a great deal of

latitude in dealing with Cuban exiles and, although little or no

control over their activities was demanded, the authorization,

funding, and conduct of air operations against Cuba by this

Agency were specifically forbidden. It is quite likely that

ROJAS, In his seal to strike effective blows against the CASTRO

regime, and despite this Agency's repeated expressions of dis

interest in air operations, convinced at least RORKE and FIORINI

that leaflet drops were sanctioned by CIA. About one week before

the October overflight and about one week before the December

incident; ClA began to receive reporte of impending leaflet

drops over Cuba.

As noted above, after the l October opera-

tion, RORKE and FIORINI claimed that they had been involved.

It was not until December that this Agency became aware of the

full extent of the three overflights and the details of the involve

ment of THOMPSON, SWANNER, and JOHNSON. With the

exception of

ever been employed by this Agency in any capacity.

4. In March 1962, Mr. Raymond J. DWYER, & Miami

attorney representing FINGER in connection with possible

litigation against the insurer of the Apache aircraft, approached

this Agency for information inasmuch as there were widespread

runors of U. S. Government involvement in the incident. Mr.

DWYER was informed that this Agency had no connection with

the flight in question or with the individuals named by him -

FINGER, JOHNSON, THOMPSON, SWANNER, and STURGIS (Frant

Anthony STURGIS aka Frank FIORINI).

5. In June, 1962, this Agency received from the State

Department a query from Senator Robert C. BYRD on behalf of

Mrs. Blanche DeBOLT, Elkview, West Virginia, mother of

Robert THOMPSON. Mrs. DeBOLT was seeking clarification

of various rumors concerning THOMPSON's whereaboute..

Agency informed State that we had no information that would

substantiate any of the rumors.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

6. This Agency has checked the transcripts of CASTRO's

speeches from 14 through 31 December 1961. He made no refer

ence to having shot down two aircraft which were dropping bombs

and leaflets on Havana and Matanzas. As to other elementa of

the incident as reported in references, this Agency can furnish

no information on the following:

A. MrI. SWANNER's story of having driven

SWANNER, JOHNSON, and FIORINI to Fort Lauder-

dale to load a boat with leatlete;

The $500. 00 checks reportedly given to

Mrs. SWANNER and Mra. THOMPSON by FIORINI;

C.

MIS. SWANNER's reported trip to Androm

Island with her son and a friend of her husband;

D.

The mysterious phone calls to Mre. SWANNER,

Mrs. THOMPSON, and others;

E. The role of Gene ASBURY and Norman

GRATSKY OF GRADSKY.

The John MARTINO mentioned in one of the referenced

articles is probably John Vincent MARTINO who was sentenced by

Cuban authorities in 1959 to thirteen years in prison on the charge

of counter-revolutionary activities. MARTINO was released and

returned to the U.S. in October 1962, not in December as

reported. MARTINO was not and is not employed by this Agency

in any capacity.

(Signed). Dooment Fissforala

Desmond FitzGerald

Chieí, Special Affairs Stafl

Distribution:

Crig & 1 - Addressee

1 - DD/P

1 - C/SAS

2 - SAS/ EOB

DDP/SAS/EOB:CDFord: el (20 Mar 63)

D 00.2211

---

