# 104-10065-10401

## Page 1

104-10065-10401

J: UNCLASSIFIED

L

INTERNAL

SE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND. RECORD SH

SECRET

'SUBJECT: (Optionol)

OLG RECORD COPY

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

Rodger S.

Affabri165 KM '78

OLC/CER

1133

DATE

13 April 1978

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number. each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

'i done!

MI.

Shepanek

0/SA/D0/0 Tube:

Harold Leap,

HSCA staff,

DX6-Green

wants the name ofl

for the years 1957

and 1958 to close the l00p

on his inquiry as to whether

had any

relationship with Oswald

Kim File HSCA

when he was in Japan.

ted.

Gabrielson

10

1t

3:

The

for the years 1991.

1958 was.

Mr. Joke Baker.

Me. Baker died

nü 1964.

Masant

12.

13

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

# 06532

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

12 APR 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of Legislative Counsel

VIA

FROM

SUBJECT

SA/D0/0

:

Raymond A. Warren

Chief, Latin America Division

Dispatches to and from Mexico for period

15 October through 26 November 1963

REFERENCE

HSCA Request of 9 March 1978

Attached are copies of 407 dispatches covering the

period 14 October through 29 November 1963. to and from

Headquarters.and the Mexico City Station and Monterrey Base.

These dispatches are bioken down as follows:

No. Dispatches

221

120

55

11

From

Mexico City

Hqs

Monterrey

Hqs

To

Symbol

Hqs

HMMA

Mexico City • HMMW

Hqs

HMY A

Monterrey

HMYW

2.

These dispatches contain sensitive operational and

privileged information.

Accordingly, the review of these

documents must be done under strict security controlled

conditions.

Any notes taken from these documents by the HSCA

reviewer(s) must cite dispatch and paragraph number; otherwise

it will be impossible to conduct the necessary note

review

and will preclude the release of the notes to the HSCA.

3. No copies of these dispatches are to be made and

the attached dispatches are to be returned to this Division

these dispatches

immediately following the HSCA review.

siezed

Raymond d. Tasren

Raymond A. Warren

Attachments:

407 dispatches

a/s

THAt: 10:16

AND WHO 1104D

SEREST

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 9560

# 06533

---

## Page 3

14-00000

OLGELA

SUBJECT:

Dispatches to and from Mexico

for period 15 October

through 26 November 1963

DDO/C/LA/STB/WSturbitts:esm (X9127) (12 Apr 78)

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee w/att

1 - SA/DO/0 w/o att

- C/LA w/o att

1

- C/ LA/ST.B

2

300R2T

---

