# 104-10171-10014

## Page 1

104-10171-10014₽

SECRET

", TOM: (Fleadquar", is component)

TFW/PA-PROP

TO

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND GIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

RID/AN

: (Station/Base)

COS, JHAVE

FROM: (Division)

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

A COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH IN.

1O-RATEN

OLO TITLE WHEN ANENCINO A TITLE. CITE

•. ITEM B-ALE FILE TITLES MUST DE ITERILE BINCE THEY MILL

ANY FILIO. BUCH AN 101 OR PROJICT FILES THAT ANE NE.

PPEAR ON THE FELO COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTE

LATRO TO THE PILE COPCARD OY THIS REQUEST. ITESA 10 MAY

ALBO BE UBIO TO GIVE REABONE FOR THI ACTION BRINO NE.

CITEN O-ALL REMANdA MUST BE ATCHIN

• QUEBTIO, TO IDINTITY THE TYPE D! MATERIAL TO BE PLACHO

D: ¡FEMO I AMD B-UBE PIRET TARRE LETTERS OF DISPATCH

IN A FILE OR TO MAGE OTHER ENPLANATORY DEMANIS.

"OR FIELD STATIONE

LIBr HEADQUARIERS

P. ITEM 11-A RECOPOR OFPICKS NUET BIGN ALL PILE ACTION IR.

ELEMENTS ACCORDINO TO

ASTAMLIBAEO NUMERIC CODES.

QUESTB. CONSULT YOUR AMO ON ANY PRODLIMS THAT ARIOR.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILE

CODE (FILES NUMBER

COUNTRY MUNGEN

CATEGORY A

ARICAPIC BUBISCT NUMBER

SUBJECT

PROJECT

19

120

26 13

S. FILE TITLE TAPECIPIC BUBJECT,

AMSPELL

POT 975)

ACTION REQUIRED

ANALYAIN ACTION

DIPORITION

OPEN FILE

CLOSE FILE

AMINO FILE TITLE

(INDICATE DISPORITION,

6. ARMARKO TPOR PIRLO DISTRIBUTIONT

RETAIN

DESTROY THAU (DATRE

7. INTERITED STATIONS

8. INTERESTED HRADQUARTERS DEER

UPG

19

FILES ACTION

MOLO IN

CB FILEB

RESTRICTEO

UNRISTRICTEO

TO COMMENTE (INCLUDE SPECIAL MEADOUARTERE ROUTINO INSTRUCTIONES

PREPARE FOLDER AND

SEND TO REQUEATER

exfiltration traffic

This will Include other than AMBARB, Infiltration and

CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO

X TEW/PA-PROP

Gab Love

6502

03

medal e go03)

Mishaad C. Joseph TFW/ RNO

10.00162

812

DESOLETE

PREVIOUS

EDITION®

TION

A. A.

19

124

SECRETPUNCHED

286

B-CS COPY.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

₴/90

---

