# 104-10406-10136

## Page 1

104-10406-10136]

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

3. DEFINITIONS

Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below will apply

Special note must be taken of the fact that the key term "operational use"

employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct

manner consistent with clarity. It has not been feasible, however, to cover in

a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances

which may be encountered in DDO activities. The definition of "operational

use" is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be

employed with responsible operational judgment. Issues involving a deter-

mination of "operational use" which cannot be resolved with reasonable as-

surance by the responsible operating components will be referred to the

Deputy Director for Operations for decision.

a Operational Use"

Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization, or train-

ing of any individual or group for DDO purposes on either a witting or

unwitting basis by or on the behalf of an element of the Operations Direc

torate. Utilization is made of an individual or group whenever that in-

dividual or group, responding to the direction or solicitation of a DDO

element, provides information, performs services, provides cover, or supplies

financial, material, or other support necessary for the accomplishment of

DDO operational objectives either directly or indirectly, to or for an ele

ment of the Operations Directorate.

b. DDO Element

Any person or group who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled

either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under

this definition are employees or members of Agency proprietary mech-

anisms.

c. Operational Contact

Aay association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO

operations.

4, RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

a. Restrictions on the operational use of individuals or groups are of four types

and cover twenty five separate categories as outlined below and as described

in greäter detail in paragraphs 5 through 8 of this instriction:

(1) Operational Use is Prohibited (see paragraph 5):

(a) Members and trainees of

(b)

SECRET

D

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

(a) Oficials or employees of the

(d) Officials, employees, or

(e) Employees of US

(2) Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (sec

paragraph 6):

AND APPROVAL OF SA/ADDO.

(a) Employees of other U.S. Government agencies;]

(b): DDO agents or assets |

(c):

(d):

(5) ||

(3)

Operational Use Requires Special Approval by the DDO (see para-

graph: 170g

(a)

(b)

(c))

(d)

(el)

(f)

(

(b)

(i)

(DD)

(k)

(4) Operational Use Requires Approval by Chief of Area Division (see

paragraph 8):

(a) (Citizens or alien residents

(b) Non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees;

(c)L

b. Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one type of

restriction will be controlled by the highest type of restriction applicable

in his particular case.

3

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

5. OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED

a. Members and Trainees of

(1) It is Agency policy that members and trainees of

_will not be

used in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency

or by organizations under its jurisdiction. (The terat "members of

I will be, understood to mean anyone employed by or associated

with

(2) It is Agency policy that former members of _

may be em-

ployed or used by the Agency or by organizations under its jurisdiction

only in accordance with the following:

(a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former member of lI

may be employed or used operationally by any element of the

Agency only if a period of five full years has elapsed since his

separation from

(b) An Agency-controlled organization may hire & former member of

] but only for duties related to the overt purposes of such

osganization, if a period of at least.twenty-four months has elapsed

since his separation from

(c) The employment or use of a former member of l

under

the provisions of subparagraph (a) or (b) above must have the

specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.

(3) Former trainees whose

_service included duty or traininglover-

seas are subject to the rules governing employment or use of former

members of

_(subparagraph (2) above). Former traineesy wh

lid not serve at any time as members of Tand whose l

service did not include duty Or training)overseas may be employed or

used operationally by DDO elements provided the specific prior ap-

proval of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained.

(4) A former member or trainee_of E

_whose employment or use

is permitted by subparagraph (2) or (3) above may not be assigned

to b de in sigued fir which he had been traited'or to which

(5) Information may be received by the Domestic Collection Division

from private corporations and other organizations employing former

personnel, notwithstanding the fact that the information may

originate with former

personnel. However, any direct brief-

ing or debriefing of or contact with former members or trainees of

Tis subject to the following:

(a) The specific prior approval of the Depuiy Director for Operations

must be obtained.

4

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

(

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

(b) If the individual is a former member of l

Jor a former

[trainee whose

service included duty or training over-

seas, five years must have elapsed since his separation from

If contact with a former_

member) or a former trainee whose

service included duty or frainigg overseas should be un-

avoidable during the required five year, waiting period, the Deputy.

Director for Operations may request an exception from the Director

of Central Intelligence. Among the possible reasons for such unavoid-

able contact would be the designation of a former member or trainee )

as the liaison officer to the Domestic Collection Division.

b.

DDO policy probibits the operational use of individuals who are receiving

under. certain provisions (see below) of. the

I Falling under this prohibi-

tion arel

(including

]who have been selected to receive

appointed

by the President of the United States. Operational use of such individuals

is prohibited only during the period when they are participating in the

This prohibition specifically

does not apply to the several other categories of

supported by

other provisions of the

who

do not come under the aegis of the

(see 7.j., below).

c. Officials or Employees of thel

of the policy prohibits the operational use of the officiant of emil sues

Contacts with such

individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in their cover ca-

pacities must be limited to their cover assignments.

d. Officials, Employees, or

DDO policy_ prohibits the operational use of

or of other

persons actively participating in programs which are wholly sponsored

and controlled by any of these!

Additionally, there will be

no operational use made of the officials or employees of these organiza-

tions. In general, however, there is no restriction on nonoperational con-

tacts or consultations with such individuals.

5

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

(

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

e. Employees of iU.S.

DDO policy prohibits

the operational use either in the United States

overseas of the employees of any

This poliS used apply to operationa

use of employees of organizations which are engaged strictly in commercial

8. EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED

a. Employees of

Approval for the operational use of staff or contract (including foreign)

employees of l

] will be granted only in

cases where the employee's (l

Thas been notified

of and has approved of the intended operational use in accordance with

the provisions of DOI 10-5.

•b. DDO Agents or Assets in

In accordance with the agreement existing betseen the

and this Agency, the restrictions listed below apply to

the aerational actinate the Operation Di porare conductea ion ba

of appropriate information on

DDO operational activities

is the responsibility of

the Chief,

Liaison Group, Operations. Staff.

(1) All investigations by this Agency of L

require the prior concurrence of the

In this context, the

term "investigation"

means systematic and direct inquiries or pro-

cedures (such as physical or technical surveillances or neighborhood

inquiries) aimed at developing information concerning an individual's

activities or background; "investigation" does

ceptance or the development of information through social

or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their

cover functions.

(2) Any approach in the United States by a DDO element for recruit-

ment

equires the prior concurrence of

3) Any planned meeting in the United States for assessment and soci

development between a DDO element and a foreign official of known

or presumed interest to

or between a DDO element and an

requires that prior son-

fication be provided to

(4)

Whenever domestic DDO operations involve matters pertaining to

the national security of the United States, appropriate identification

of persons engaged in the operations in the United States will be

6

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL.

4 September 1973

provided to

I In accordance with this policy, the following

categories of DDO assets will be identified (to

who come to the United States for operational

purposes.

Agents and Human Sources of Foreign Intelligence

The

has been established at head-

quarters to provide for United States Intelligence Board (USIB) agencies

a centralized record of

A principal purpose of thel

is to register primacy of interest andi

prevent multiple:

Jit is USIB policy that no individual

(registered in thi

py one USIB agehcy ill be used for operational pur-

poses by any other USIB agency without the specific prior approval of the

If a DDO element desires to arrange the

will con-

to/determine whether there is a

tact the agency having

willingness to discuss this matter.

d. Citizens or Persons Documented as. Citizens) of

(1) The operational use of (citizens)of the above-named

Jis restricted

by agreements with the intelligence: or security authorities of such

which require the prior approval of the (appropriate

authority. Such approval will be obtained at the earliest feasible stage

of develonment thrash the

(2). The above restriction also governs the use of

documentation

representing DDO staff or agent personnel as

_Approval for the use of such documentation will

be sought through the same channels as stated in subparagraph (1)

above.

(3) Authority to make operational use of the persons or documentation

described in the bove subparagraphs without obtaining the prior

approvali of the authority) concerned may be granted only

by the Deputy Director for Operations or by the Director.

7

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

The onerational use Of any

is, under certain conditions, contingent on prior approval

of the national intelligence service concerned? Thesel

Jare par-

ticularly sensitive in cases involving the operational use of theirl

who are

and who are

Each case involving the proposed operational use of a

lot

one of these

will be reviewed by the Chief of thel

Division in the light of the agreements existing between this Agency and

the national intelligence service concerned. After weighing all of the

equities, the Chief of the

Division will decide whether approval

is required Gomithe national intelligence service) concerned. When re-

quired, approvals for the operational use of such individuals will be

obtained from the appropriate national intelligence services by the

Division.

The operational use ofl

who are serving

regardless of their!

carrying the l

Yis, under certain conditions, subject

to provisions of the agreements existing between this Agency and the

(national intelligence service concerned. Each case involving the proposed

operational use of suchi

will be reviewed by the Chief

of thel

Division or the Chief of the I

Division, as ap-

propriate, in the light of the pertinent aunterservice agreements. After

weighing all of the equities, the Chief of the

Division or the

Chief of the

Division will determine the course of action to

be taken with regard to the national intelligence service concerned

7. APPROVAL BY THE DDO REQUIRED

Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations for the operational use

of any individual who falls into one of the categories described in this para-

graph will be requested by memerandum. The individual's covert approval

status will be described in the memorandum to the Deputy Director for

Operations, together with a concise explanation of the intended operational

use. (In connection with this paragraph, contacts by the Domestic Collection

Division with individuals ur firms do not require approval by the Deputy

Director for Operations provided

they constitute merely briefing or de-

briefing for the purpose of obtaining information acquired by an individual

or representative of a firm in the course of his normal activides. if, however

in any case the contact is on behalf uf another element of the Operations

8

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

Directorate or another agency; or if an individual or firm will be requested

to perform an operational task or to deviate. from his or its normal pattern

of activity; or if the activity, even though consistent with the individual's

or firm's normal patter of activity, will take place because requested or

funded by the Domestic Collectión Division; that case will be subject to

the requirement for approval by the Deputy Director for Oserations.)

2.

1 (see DOI 240-6)

(1) Operational use of|

requires prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations whenever

there is danger that such activity might serve in any way (tol

Such activities include but are not limited to the

The op-

erational use abread ofl

Roes not require approval by the Deputy

Director for Operations even though such activities may have some

unintended and unsolicited fallout

2) Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations is also required prios

to the operational use of

. whenever the individual is a U.S.

involved is under U.S. ownership

citizen or when the

or control.

b.

Employees

It is DDO policy to avoid operational use of employees of the

organization including indigenous employees. Exceptional individual cases

involving priority operational objectives will be considered on their merits.

Prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations will be required

in all cases.

c. Individuals Engaged in

(see DOI 50-18)

Individuals engaged in

which in any way have

or seek to have

are

considered to be in a separate sensitive category. In view of the peculiar

aspects of

activity, including the special requirements of

the

Act, approval by the Deputy Director

for Operations is required prior to the operational use in 2l

capacity of any individual who is engaged in

_activities

and who is located in or operating into the United States.

9

SECRET

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

d.

/ (see DOI 60-11)

Prior approval of the Director or the Deputy Director for Operations is

required for operational contact in the United States with or operational

use of

controy It, while in the United States, such individual is to be investigated,

pares for peritant or contact a guera co planes e, the paro

graph âb., above.

It is DDO policy that the operational use of L

including those of its various main

7 is of such sensitivity as to require

special consideration by the Deputy Director for Operations. In especially

worthwhile cases wherein operational use of a particular individúal

is deemed essential for the accomplishment of the DDO mission, approval

may be obtained. In each case involving a gon-l.S. citizen assigned in

the U.S. or a U.S. citizen wherever assigned, the prior approval of the

Deputy Director for Operations will be required. (See paragraph 8.b.

regarding use of non-U.S. citizen

not assigned

in the U.S.) If, while in the United States, the _ individual is to be

investigated, approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational pur-

poses, the prior concurrence of

may also be required as outlined

in paragraph 6.b., above.

f. Staff Members or Officials

The operational use of staff members or officials of the

or other equivalent

requires special consideration and prior approval by the Deputy

Director for Operations. DDO elements should make every effort to avoid

the operational use of staff members or officials of

CHow-

ever, when especially high priority objectives are at stake and alternative

agent assets are not available, approval for the use of such individuals may.

be graated by the Deputy Director for Operations.

g. Officials of 1

Operational contact with officials of thell

will be made only

with the prior apprials wil be Dept Direct for Operati as Operations)

officials will be contingent on prior approval by the Deputy

Director for Operations.

U.S. or foreign

pating inl

partici-

or other;

10

SECRET

D

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

_(except certain

see paragraph 5.b.,

above) are considered to be in a separate sensitive category. Operational

use of such individuals while they are actively quisi aper in consideration

and approval by the Deputy Director for. Operations prior to such use. In

certain especially worthwhile cases wherein the operational use of°a par-

ticular]

l is considered essential to

the accomplishment of the DDO mission, the Deputy Director for Opera-

tions may grant approval. Memoranda requesting such approval will be

forwarded through the Chief, Foreign Resources Division. In such cases the

Deputy Director for Operations will determine whether or not to seek the

concurrence of the

i Members of

(1) It is U:S. Government policy that no federal agency shall provide any

This policy

applies to all foreign as well as domestic activities of such organiza

(tions. In compliance with the above proscription; DDO policy requires

the most careful scrutiny of all cases involving operational contact with

The operational use of any employee, staff

member or official of such an organization requires prior approval by

the Deputy Director for Operations.

The Deputy Director for Opera-

tions will determine whether or not to seek extra-Agency approval for

the conduct of such operations.

(2) Operational use including covert funding abroad of

and the personnel thereof is per-

mitted even if the organization is also funded by

j. Officials or Employees of

Operational use of the officials or employees of the

requires prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations

Contacts with such individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make ir

their cover capacities will not involve operational matters until the approval

of the Deputy Director for Operations has been secured.

k[

Operational use of or operational contact with members of I

7 while they are on assignment in the United States will not be

made without the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.

foreign countries in collaboration with the Department of State as

SEESE

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECRET

D

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

Such volunteers are sent to the U.S.

for a period ofT

The name of the organization may vary by country.

8. OPERATIONAL USE REQUIRES APPROVAL BY CHIEF OF AREA

DIVISION

Operational use of any individual in the categories listed in this paragraph

is considered of such sensitivity as to require special consideration

proval by the appropriate Area Division Chief. This authority may not be

delegated. The request for approval will be by memorandum in which the

individual's covert approval status will be described, together with a concise

explanation of the intended operational use.

DOI 50-197

The operational use

been admitted for permaneht residence or have resided for a prölonged

period in the U.S., requires the prior approval of the Chief of the Area

Division under whose jurisdiction the intended use is to take place.

b.

The operational use of

who are not assigned in the U.S. requires the prior ap-

proval of the Chief of the Area Division under whose jurisdiction the in-

tended use is to take place.

c. Members of the

Community

(1) Within the context of this instruction a member of the l

Icom-

munity is defined as:

Persons

community

(2) Operational use of members of the

are not considered to be members of the community, especially.

those cases wherein an individual is to be made witting of Agency

interest, will be on a highly selective basis. Each case will be examined

to ascertain its essentiality to the DDO mission in terms of the price

of possible disclosure, and to ensure that proper security procedures

can be observed. When it has been determined that the operational

use of a member of thel

community as defined above is

SECRET

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

DOI. 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 30-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

operationally feasible and without suitable alternative, prior approval

in the following cases will be obtained as indicated below:

(a) Any U.S. citizen who is a member of the

and who is associated in any way with any

community

(b) Any non-U.S. citizen who is a member of the

community

and who is associated in any way with any

- DDO

which is located either in the United States or abroad.

If the individual is located in the United States, approval will be so-Ole feared

quested by memorandum to the Chief, Foreign Resources Division.

The memorandum will include a statement that the individual is, or

is not, a DCD asset or contact, and in the event he is will include

the concurrence of the Chief, Domestic Collection Division. If the in:

dividual is loçated outside the United States; approval will be requested

y memorandum to the Chief of the Area Division who has jurisdictio

ver the area concerned. Operational use of 1

members of the

community who are not associated in any way with

Tis: also con-

sidered sensitive.. The operational use of such individuals also requires..

the approval of the Chief of the Area Division In any case involving

a well known person or having special security implications, the

Division Chief to whom the request is referred under the above pro

visions will consult with the DDO and obtain the latter's approval.

(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) do not apply to Domestic Collection

Division contacts with members of the

community, but such

contacts are subject to the following requirements:

(a) If a member of thel

community) would be asked to per-

form an operational task or to alter his normal pattern of activity

in order to serve Agency purposes, prior approval of the Chief,

Domestic Collection Division is required. Additionally, if such an

individual will be in a foreign area, the concurrence of the Chief

of the Area Division concerned will be obtained.

(b) Prior concurrence will be obtained from the appropriate Area

Division Chief if an individual is to be utilized in a politicaily

sensitive ares where his presence or activities could potentially

embarrass the interests of the U.S. Government.

(c) The requirements of paragraph Sa.

apply if a citizen or alien

resident of the United States wouid be used in a denied area.

(4) At the end of each calendar year, Chiefs of Divisions will submit a

report to the Deputy Director for Operations (via Chief, Foreign

Resources Division) on the number of individuals recruited from the

13

SECRET

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECRET

DDO INSTRUCTION

NO. 50-10

DOI 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

community during that year. This audit will permit the DDO

to keep abreast of major quantitative changes in the number of po

tentially sensitive operational cases in each Division.

(5) It should be noted that the provisions of this paragraph do not apply

to DDO employees who wish to

approval for.

such activity will be obtained in accordance with the provisions of

• HR 10-7.

9. INDIVIDUAL CHANGES OF STATUS OR CATEGORY

When an individual undergoes a change of status which places him in one of

the restricted categories described above, or transfers him from one category

to another, his operational use or continued operational use is contingent upon

approval or reapproval as prescribed for his new status.

10. INTERPRETATION OR MODIFICATION OF RESTRICTIONS

Certain of the policy restrictions described in this instruction are subject to

• interpretation, extension or modification by the Deputy Director for Opera-

tions depending on the conditions and the atmosphere for DDO operations

at any particular time. Especially when dealing on the edges of policy rulings

and within the guidelines set forth herein, particular heed should be paid to

the price of diselosure, including careful consideration of the sensitivities of

the individuals involved. When there is any doubt concerning the application

of these restrictions, guidance should be obtained from the Deputy Director

for Operations.

William E. Nelson

Deputy Director for Operations

14

SECRET

---

