# 104-10209-10259

## Page 1

104-10209-10259.

SEGRET

• 1.

Files

Ho Do itevens

ME. LES PRYOY OCCALE CACE

411S: 1-

27 Jacuary 1064

435115}

1, icurdino, to a restart colom or "Hen and scout" in tho

Chicaso APaTIeNO DI 6 Decentor 1003, co the DAID Case, Loren TAYE.

Iceal Officer ot the state Copartrent, ins one of zho jerics la-

Fillutely responcibie for chilD's beind loritted to mtura to tie

tates for the ¿oviet Untos la June 16020 Tie otter Individsol

nuied me Lierilm TECE, the tren filosedor to Burcia. lotior

said to have been Lavolved in the herding je J5210's case iss Chel

VIT, counsel of the rectican Bibacoy li roacow,

2.

:352234, Who as of l6 February Iiúl bes deuerited

as "the ner comsel in state',

das granted scurity, enoval lot liaison

contect vith j. Footer OLITalin the cirloe of the Clilei ci ibe covert

Action Stari) on 6 l'arca 1561. The requent for CATES' clearasco vas a

"Elaniet' request to perit discusaion vith bin of ISC 5412/2 ratters on

a need-+0--107208156

in septenter 1251 tlero sea a inite House sacecbeck request on

CHAILS' alfE Antoala (Ton1) LOlSh HAYES. De:

HANDLER.

In Narch 1562,

CRATES VED Grusted a reneval o? his liaison

centnot clearance with-c/cs. on a continulag basia. Tula tire ble contaet

was Archibald SORTaLT, Jr.

5. On 10 Pebrary 1962, MULAN EVENTS repcrted as follows vith

referenco to CHAYeS:

"SOFT ON CRISTITI?!: Depresentative Francis F. salter (R--Pa.),

Chaltras or to Ecuse Committee co In merican Aeilvitled, has

scorad the ser state Departient regulations en jessports, clale

Ind they wouli allow ters denied passporto to "rifle frealy tbe

confidential files of the PTY, the CIA and other inestigative

agencies."

The mon bebial the moy regulatices, wiich aller

clains violate the Internl security set of 1250, 1s refortedly

state's chief legal ostirer, abres Prayes:

Chayes, & Kennedy

expointee, is en ex-terread prorensor duo vas Carter Iovles'

top legal atuicer men Boules vas Joverior of Innecticut.

salter has Introduced legislation to renedy the nev sassport

reEuletions."

SECRET

63091

Exciated it: a artemade

271-1029

---

## Page 2

14-0000

hy+ 14544 177729591 Fy E

SECRET

=2os

6. Farvel 13E, "Cruntel in the iserican tabaasy in foscow" vo

i19 rutured to sure, ray sell be tamel critin a SI, T3Tt,

i29 s' 9i, uho apparently vis once a contract employe on du. riva.

openDor 192 2 eul do 118 ba 3e001 secretary of the leerican

At that tire 113 suised an a cable to tra tate

Dejnurent thet It arcarod that bruce Frederick 24173, 352017, sho

•delecue tron ubs loited itocco dany in cerany on 13 Muns 1360, lis

not expatricted hiracli

DAVIS once

Lo very Biails to thor si

SWO; and to; 11ke :03110, Ilved in tro Coulos Inisa for 100 j'2

ailer his nelection and price do saiing anulication for returo to lla

Unlied taterd

To 31-2 ma an erphleant for ChA ceployzent la carly 1993 erd

ms security amroyed subject to polyzati an i lunal thi

not enter un duty as in lepturier 15s the offied mici ind been

Interosted 19 tin vas

'no loner interested'. Ca 1i Laraber 2553,

WIt vas sranted a sin to portit his use an a contract enjoyce se

STACTIVE In beY York City. Ils DiA Mas concollie ou 26 lurch 1557.

Curlns an loveatiention of te batter sor pousible CIA coolis: 20t in 1:52.

VIst, eccordine to MN'ELl's lendlady end social acquaintanco in sabiagton,

Doc Curlag to period of about o yor mich eniod la bald 19j2, son the

cali verson she inow by nose with von IRiSH, "as filcally, Acccrilna

to the infoment, 'I'E was a stulent at collabla Calveroity moca adirosa.

vas 423 inali Eall, ANILe ve ecurity disarpared for Il orployest

521 June 1952 becauso of bis alnio association on a proressional end 500ia1..

baulo, Mallo attendino Denor Uiluoraid9 Gon 25'6 to 1552, dita jeruons

•i Qantloble Loyality, Is Hoverior 1954, 1E7I3II vao: af interest to

INSect FUALITS Viln reference to caalagent tol

inner, the intorested oicice vicheres thotr regust on tir

security advices ai toe derogazany iniaation roguding tie.

So MISE PrEs 1051 tü 195: attended Scaridale Elsa Seidol In ¿Curicle,

Bor York, unico ma attacked lyn iltizende Groug, walch nilerol Comelat

Influence 11 tho satool syster. to und several pestionable assoclates in

Baltion to MuSEL.

SECRET

62: 3

slutes tramy gotozatle

---

