# 104-10229-10059

## Page 1

104-10229-10059

SECKET

9 June 1961

MEMORAN DUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Planning for IMATE Activities

1. Mr. Estorline, C/WH/OPS, stated 8 June 1961 that the Special

Group had met on that date and, in addition to the Nicaraguan paper, had

considered the papor prepared by Branch 4 on 7 June, entitled: Policy

Decisions Requirod for Agency Relationships with the CRC and Other

Cuban Exile Grouse.

The decision of the Special Group was to negotiate

this matter with State and bring the subject back to the Group later.

Mr. Esterline statod that he had discussed this matter with Mr.

Biesell who would like to have by next Monday night, 12 June, a re-writo

of the paper of y June, Mr. Esterline discussed the re-write at some.

length. Basically What Mi. Dissell apparently wante is a memorandum

forwarding three or perhaps four individual memoranda covering the

. same throe subjects which we presented before plus perhaps Swan Ialand.

Mr. Biesell wants it spelled out more clearly why a major part or all of

the support to the respectivo activities must bo overt.

In the event that

we consider, which we probably should, all the pros and cons in this

matter, we should spell out who the funds come from, the delicate point

of if the funde como from the Agency, should the Agency then have a re-

view responsibility over the Department of State in ite distribution of

said funde. On the other hand, if we do not have a roview function, then

we must be, in writing, relieved of responsibility once we have turned

over said funds. This, of course, will bring out the basic inconsistency

in the Agency's being involved.

3. Mr. Biasell said that he had looked at our budget again and was

not satisfied with it, and accordingly it would have to be rewritten -- his

main objection being that he does not want the items for support of the CRC

and related entities mentioned in the preceding paragraph included in said

budget. He also commented that in our presentation, presumably referring

to the presentation of paragraph 2 above of the budget of the CRC, he did

not want a breakdown of FRD items, but rather one whole budget for the CRC.

SaST

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGNET

and, a

4. Mr. Bissell also apparently informed Mr. Esterline and Colonel

King that the proposal to move from INGAPE to an adjoining area along-

side JMRIM had been disapproved because of the sirong opposition of the

Office of Communications and the Central Cover Group. Accordingly,.

Mr. Esterline is now willing to go along with the recommendation we

made last weck and which was approved in writing by Colonel King that

a team be sent out as soon as possible to the Florida area to attempt to

assess the problem and find a new suitable location or locations.

5. Mr. Estorline stated that there had also been some discussions

with Mr. Bissell and Colonel King on maritime assets and that they would

like to have as soon as can be prepared a paper on the subject of maritime

activities, including the financial and any other pertinent aspects, and

activating of the 85-foot cratt which had previnasly been discussed with

the PM people.

Mr. Esterline

stated that he would also like to have a

piper on the subject of possible sabotage school sites and factors affecting

the reopening of Randolph.

6. Comment:

It is abundantly clear that, for political reasons, the

Special Group is not prepared to make any decision on the CRC matter

and this re-write job is strictly busy work. Accordingly, no significant

changes in our previous position scem to be indicated.

DC/ WH/#

REW:dla (9 June 1961)

Distribution:

10 - C/WH/OPS

1 - C/WH/4

1 - DC/WH/4

1 - WH/4/Exec

1 = WH/4/ Plans

1 - WH/4/Intel

1 - WH/4/Support

1 - WH/4/FI-CI

1 - WH/A/PA-PROP

1 = WH/4/PM

1 - WH/4/Finance

SEOMET

---

