# 104-10183-10091

## Page 1

104-10183-10091

porting

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reprosupe

focals

REPS:

214

and 6661 (IN 86053)

6788 (In 89336), 6645 (In 84957), 6646 (IN 84981); 4647 (EN 85000))

-1. A study of refs indicates Carrillo responding WHIP'S quertes freely. This: gives

- rise to several suppositions:

1).. knows of the hIP/AMIASH-1 relation

ship and is part of the LASH/AMEluEIRAS/

(WATER EL MACO) ISAH, although WHIP DOESNT ON THIs, snich soons untioly, ar

2) suspects that hIP 1s f in contact with the Averteans and, in line with his

on - Carrillosts - assistance to Fidel Castro in the attenpted ripprochnent with

the USA, 19 appearing to cooperate by answering WHIP'S innocuous questions about ho

1s. who and in

what position in the GOC, whereas when asked about the influence or

Importance of Cuban Cormunists, Carrillo replies fi firmly that Castro 1s diminshing

their influenco in Cuba by reducirig their jurisdiction (and ostipas examples), Reconsid

It should be noted that Carrillo's examples are interesting - they are all examples

mr of first achelon Comnists? who have been dismissed (Edith Gareia Buchaca) or who

tavo had their spheres of influence decreased (Carlos Rafael Rodriguez and Manuel,

Juzardo), Now, NIPAStY sers the CP 18 putting its mon in airplanning ministries" sot

Awax as replacesents for inept Fidelistas, What 13 meant by planning

nucleus

#Inistrios!?

ASH also sava that the CP/ridess in Cubanatadlos 1s Incroasing In

importance, yet we knou fros Diderico Potorosen Parroto that the Manager of Cubamotales

ny true, tota sho 1a inerasire the importance of the ep nuclous - Carranza, unwittingly,

or Cho Vico Mgr. Of Ops M/" (Hermindo Carela Lso?), Cubantules! boss, or mo else?

In additiono lo its rise, and carrillo unarare os tale, or so ho willined salling

WHIP for passago to the Arericans ahm only abour the favoratlo aspects o! Castrog

allompo lo control the CP In Cuid. In any case, de moull appear that 8u 18 CAsErO

so ailanplane to roally bio lio CP, no should lo allackine toth the elidlo echolon

(anion lo ineroasine and lopport, dia posieton) as moll as tho lop.

persiandes tole.

71BR

---

