# 104-10408-10417

## Page 1

1104-10408-10417

• Registry

5160

10510

15 October,

1968.

Dear Dich

...

Your Melbourne Station has sought my views

on the possibility of declassifying a Warren Commission

document in which reference is made to the

The document in question is CD-97D

dated 22nd May, 1964, together with

an attachment dated

[29th November, 1963.

I would recommend. strongly that CD.971 and

its attachment should not on any account be

declassified or

publicly released for reasons which include

the following :

(1)

never been officially stated that there

is a "C.l.A. Canberra Station" or that

there are C.l.A. officers in

This has been avoided as a point of policy.

(ii)

Publication of these facts would invoke a

"spate of questions by the Press and in

which would be contrary to the

national security interest, for example :

(a) Who approved the establishment of

the "C.I.A. (Canberra Station"?

(b) What is its composition and location?

(c) What is its purpose in

(Allegations have already been made

that C.l.A. is interfering il

omestic affairs.)

•(d)

With what

deal?

agencies does it

which

not been

publicly disclosed, could be brought

into discussion.

(e) With what other foreign agencies does the

deal?

(1)

'What

such dealings?

control is there over

Poetrat

713892-48

---

## Page 2

13-00000

2.

pot the anonymous, telephone

the result of its further enquiries.

I am giving a copy of this letter to your Melbourne

Station.

With kindest regards and best wishes.

Yours resid

Richard Helms, (Esq.);

Director,

Central Intelligence Agency,

Washingion, D.C., 20505,

United States of America.

---

