104-10308-10160}

THROCESSING "ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

of station, Teg NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INFO. . ONLY QUALIFIED DESK. Hl
Chsef of Station, Mexico CAN JUDGE INDEXING.

"©" Deputy Chief, WH/SA cron ‘

wane Cperationaly 7 AN.MUG-T 1:

Mexican Ham Radio Operator in Touch with Cuba
[RETION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:

HHTA-3782, 17 June 1964!” Ge? \

For Your Information :

1. The following information was obtained from AMMUG-1 when
questioned concerning his knowledge of songs used in radio communications
in connection with reference:

a. When GPIDEAL died "AUGUSTO" personally came to the National
Liberation Building and held. a meeting with the officers of that section. He |
instructed those individuals who maintained communications with organiza- ad
tions of their respective countries, as well as with some agent, to prepare
a system of communication using some song, lecture, commercial, etc. ,
which could be transmitted by Ridio Havana, Cuba, and could be used to send
easily understood ciphered messages,

b, AMMUG-1 believes that Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo chose
the musical recording of "Las Seis Lindas Cubanas"' |Six Beautiful Cubans),
or something similar. He believes this song was written in the 1920's by
Antonio Maria ROMEU, who leads his own orchestra; however, the song
was made popular by the "ARAGCN' orchestra during the "Cha Cha Cha era."
(Comment: ROMEU is approximately 80 years old and undoubtedly is identical
with the individual referred to as Antonio Maria ROMERO in reference. )

2. "AUGUSTO" or "Agusto" was previously identified by AMMUG-1 as |
Deputy Chief of the DGI, and is probably identical with Carlos Sixto CHAIN !
Soler, Deputy to Manuel PINEIRO, ,Chief of the DGI.

3. It is not Imown whether there is any connection between the gong
titles mentioned in reference as "tres lindas Cubanas" and the AMMUG-1

CONTINUED
a Sa EEL A aE a =
aT w)i721 lee
: eer
Rigifosremen Seep ame |
RYBAT SECRET 200-5-38

‘Orrice

WH/SA/CI: Pauline Milley “ven
Wa/sa/ct Ch
1 - WH/SA/CI Chrono’ OFFICER'S NAME
<1 - FI/D/CSB ¥, = VT f

‘Office svmBol | DATE
C/WHD

‘OrriceR's SIGNATURE

Se | “DESMOND FITZGERALD

a ae “DISPATCH |


13-00000

5 A ene “i¥EH SYMBOL AND OMBER
~.. SQNFINUATION OF

€ b bE eypIeArion wy
~ DISPATCH |

RYBAT SECRET HHTW-1721 Page 2

information reported in paragraph 1, b above, However, the similarity

of the titles is obvious, and the tentative identification of the composer
lends additional credence to the Station's suspicions regarding the unusual
nature of the intercepted conversation. Headquaters would appreciate
receiving any further information which SWHOP-2 may be able to develop
on other conversations between "Alfonso" and his Cuban counterpart, as
well as any comments or information which Mexico City may be able to
provide on the personalities mentioned in reference.

healt halitsbe®

INNETH HL
Distribution; 3)
3 COS, Tegu |
2-08, Mexi
‘
Note: There is a strong possibility that the songs referred to in paragraphs
1b and 3 are the same since the Spanish words Tres (three) and seis (six)
are often Confused when heard by non-Spanish speakers, ‘eal

