# 104-10174-10037

## Page 1

1041017410037

.?!.

SEGRET

L Februari 1900

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECTS

Recting, withlenry 8. Lopezat t e Statler Hilton Hotel o

. Lobruary 1950 fror 1000 hours to 1530 hourg

1o Those present were rs. Vidal FP/ph,

-03.

1(/111 Lams)

PPED, Charles Bonney (Twiss) /Fl, andf

→ (horon) 7/1/33.

2. ir. Lopezliave a report of his tontacts In Cuba aiter receiving

A notes witchere broug up tier

hnd given to Mr. (Lopez )by

Mr. Cope→said diet le hed given bio rachical sketches of

Lolevaria, Pasco, Laurvano iatista, lartines iinga, iuben do leon azd

Sanchez AtrEo

the Station representative.

se lind also turned over a

report of lastinos frags on the sina où tice lecuericion de la lievolicion.

Mir. Gopez") reyort was taped and a transerint will be forwaried

to :TH by PO/PA.

la Specific recommerdations nade by tir. Corez included having

Herbert t'attlers no to lavana

and try to in luence Castro.

has a good reputation througout the 25th of July Novenent and could

on Cuba was also reconnended.

cover for a lony timo lo co e and that we shouli try to influence hire

He is seriously affooted by any dafections and these tight be enccuraged.

= Castro can be hit by defections of overworked and countermanded officials.

ripe for defection ne raifo in Hacienda

and Copero in Conercio.

Two men who vera mentioned Storer also recan enied contact with Padre

Alberto de Castro in Caracas.

Shis padre wag ferrerly tidel's instructor.

When Fidel was In Caracas he was scolded by Fedro Castro whom Fidel

treated with great respect according to 3osco.

The Padre and Fidel spent

about one and one half hours alono together at this time. This priest.

should be checked as a rossible influence on fidel. the possibility of

a split between Fidel and Raul should be exploited. Haul is cold ard

ryan and tho fact that he is

Pidol's bruther does not carr. too much

SCORET

14/0N

---

