# 104-10074-10111

## Page 1

1104-0074-0711

CLASSIFICATION

S-E-C-R-E-'T

HeNNas D9: 147871

OUTGOIN

MESSAGE

2?4

0

S. E.CR.ET.

STAFF

CoMr WHS

192253Z

INFO:

FiLE

12 My

C'S/INT

DIRECTOR

0

PS/EGY CES2

4,93223

OISSEM ar. 413

RETURNTO

PER

TO

SINFO WH MIAMI.A

shoval

#..*

RECÉIVED FOLLOWING REPORT FROM DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIV

MIAMI FIELD OFFICE:

ALUS BUSINESSMAN HAS RECENTLY BEEN APPROACHED BY A

RSPRESENTATIVE OF A GROUP OF MICARAGUEN CONSPIRATORS. THE

REPRESENTÁTIVE HAS TOLD THE US EUSINESSMAN: THAT HIS GROUP NEEDS

A LARGE QUANTITY OF SMALL ARTS FOR AN ATTEMPT TO TAKE OVER THE

- COVERIMENT OF NICARAGUA.: THE US BUSINESSMAN, A KAGON ARMS

DEALER, MATHTAXIS EXCELLENT PIES UITH SEVERAL LATIN AMERICAN

CERTES, HE REPLIED THAT THE ARMS ARE AVAILABLE BUT THAT HE.

PERSONALLY WOULD HAVE TO MEET WITH THE HEAD OF THE COUSPIRATORS

TO TALK ABOUT THE DEAL.: THE SPORESMAN COR THE CONSPIRATORS SAMIDI

THAT THIS COULD: EASILY BE ARRANGED FOR THE NEAR FUTURE, HE ALSO

RATINAT THE HEAD. OF THE GROUP WAS & MAN HOGH IN THE SCVERNMENT

OF NICARAGUA

Bi THE US BUSINESSMAN EUL POOBABLY PEET WITH THE HEAD

"I THE CONSPIRATORS SOMETIME SOON,

THE COLD DANTS ABOUT SIX

DISCUSSED, BUT

09644

Nectors pose to definis solely ice

Murder

13aY 0914885

---

## Page 2

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE,

OMF 0

STAFF

DRO:

DIRECTOR

493/23

WILL BE AT THE NEXT MEETING. THE REPRESENTATIVE OCURE CONSPTRATORS

SAID THAT THE HEN IN MICARAGUA VERE READY AND THATETHE ONL

THING NEEDED WAS THE DELIVERY OF THE BEAPONS. END OF PEPORT

C• FIELD COMPENTS: CONSPIRATOR SPORESRAN IS ONE MANUEL

GONZALES. ALLEGEDLY

PLERTO RICAN ORIGIN-

MANLEL GONZALES, UNIDENTIPIABLE.

3. DED VILL CAN NOTIFY PENELO CRIES CO TET T

FEASIBLE, OBTAIN MORE DETAIL FRON ITS SOURCE.

ABOVE FYI., PLIASE CASTE IF YOU HAVE HAD ANY REPORTS

OR RUMORS UHICH CORRELATE WITH PARA S

S. FILE: (53)9-390 EE IMPIETON

23 "

09644

DATE:

38 DEC 73

UNIT.

#AT:

C/UH/CNH

1946

63

2575

03

96R00

BET

BY OTHER THAT THE ISSUE OFFICE IS PI

1 84 87: 933695

---

