# 104-10320-10086

## Page 1

104-10320-10086

Review Staff:

76-0070/a

Date ni13 Januaty 1976

TO

CIA Task Force

FROM.

The Review Staff,

SUBJECT • SSC/HSC Request

RECEIVED: Datel3 January

Walter Elder

Time 1437

The attached SSC letter requests specific information

about the Warren Commission report.

Comments:

Action

Info

X

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1999

SC/DCI

A/DDA

A/DDI

A/DDO

A/DDS&T

OLC

IG

B. Evans

X

27-4

---

## Page 2

13-00000

WAH VICEC

MOMAND H

(CHARLES

BICONS

MELD STAY DALENE

SCHWARZ IN CHIEF COUNSEL

MUNCHITY COUNSE

- MD

Inited States Senate

TELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO I. RES, MI, NTH CONSIES)

ASHINGTON, D.C, 20510

January

P6 2976

REVIEW STAFE

76-0070

Mr. Walter Elder

Review Staff

Central Intelligence Agency

• Langley, Virginia

Dear Walt:

In the course.of its review of CIA tiles on President

Kennedy's assassination, the staff noted that Item 179 of,

the Mexico City chronology contained the following reference

to DIR 86054 of 12/1/63:

Headquarters received a report that on day of

assassination, Cubana aircraft delayed its de-

¡parture Mexico City 5 hours, 1700-2200

awaiting

important passenger who arrived Mexico City air-

port in private twin notor aircraft at 2130.

Passenger transferred directly to Cubana plane

without going through custons of immigration.

Above

I'H

•from (code used) diplomat who passenger on same

plane to Habana. Request you attempt identify

and determine reason unusual actions at airport.

The staff has not been able to determine that an inves-

tigation of this claim was conducted. Therefore, we would like

to have the following questions answered in connection with

this information.

1. "What persons were involved in the preparation of

DIR 86054?

2:

Who

was the diplomat referred to in the message? How

did he transit the information to CIA? Fumish copies

of all messages, memoranda of other documents which

evidence transmittal of the infornation to cIA.

3.

Was there any response or followup to DIR 86054? Fur-

nish copies of all responses.

REPRET

27-5

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRIE!

Mr. Walter Elder

January 9, 1976

Page Two

4.

If there was no response or followup,

explain why,

Kand what

procedures were in effect at that time to ensure followup

on outgoing messages:

1.5.

What other Information does CIA have relating to this

message or to the information it contains?

6.:

We have been informed that CIA in Mexico City obtaineds

manifests for flights through that city.

Please fur-

nish the manifests for this flight.

Sincere,

William B. Bader

SECRET

27-6

---

## Page 4

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTI"

SECRET

LECt: (Optional)

OM.

Richard

A.

Fuller

2B-1415

Assistant to the SA/DDO

Dr (Officer designation, room mumber, end

DATE

RECEIVED

C/CI Staff

j!?

C/

• 141678

EXTENSION

9018

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

c/co/PA

NO.

DATE

# 18

January-1976

COMMENTS (Number esch comment to

do entor: Dran a lina across colume

DistrIbution:

11

- DC/LA

41 CI Staff

BOTH HAVE ACTION.

2-4: Plene condus

NE SA/DDO

(rutter)

1, 2

al Thugh we naght he

able to helg out with

=3 mil 75.

call one whoe

12.

13.

14

75

27-3

INTERNAL

AARU

I UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 5

13-00000

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

# CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

LAMEX/PAti MNAMACA

INITIALS

5

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

ATT. IS DAN'S CONTRIBUTION TO SSC

REQUEST. READy far your ald, tions

and or comments.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

- 106501

C7-51x

Зі, 25і44/

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

ronna 237

Use previous aditions

* GPO: 1474 # 333+837

DATI

30/1176

SECRET

(40)

27-1.

ANNIAN 40N

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Pertinent to SSC letter of January 9, 19762 CI Staff

has the föllowing comments to make:

Item 1 - The persons involved in the preparation of

DIR 86054 appear on the outgoing message.

Item 2 - As close as we can determine the diplomat

referred to was

How he transmitted the information

to CIA is not reflected in the Oswald files, Therefore we

cannot provide or furnish copies of all messages, memoranda,

of other documents which evidence transmittal of the information

to CIA.

Item 3 - We cannot find in the Oswald 201 any response

or followup to DIR 86054.

Item 4 - Defer to LA Division for response.

Item 5 - CI Staff cannot competently repiy to the question

raised. We can only limit our response to what is contained in

the Oswald 201•

Item 6 - Defer to LA Division.

27-2

---

