# 104-10122-10344

## Page 1

104-10122-10344

SECRET

EYES ONLY

7 June 1966

SUBJECT: MAHEU, Robert A.

1. Robert A. Mabeu, & personnel relations executive and

former F.B. I. Agent, has been utilized by the Office of Security

on many senuitive assigments since the early fifties. He has

aldo on several occasions been cleared for use by the DD/P in

various capacities. He does business as Robert A. Maheu, Asso-

ciates, and maintaine offices in Washington, D.C., and Los

Angeles, California, where he le now residing.

2. It has come to our attention that the Senate Subcommittee

investigating wiretapping activities (Long Committee) has expressed

considerable interest in Maheu. He has never been asked to per.

form any technical surveillance on our behalf.

3. The first inkling we had that the Long Committee was

interested in Maheu came to our attention through the OGC.

Mr. Lawrence Houston advised that Walter Yeagley, Arsistant

Attorney General, Internal Security Division, had casually mentioned

to him that he had been advised by Raymond A. Taggart, an AlD

employee, that he may be called upon to testify before the Long

Committee regarding his activities while employed by Maheu (1954-55).

4. The only significant association the Agency had with Maheu.

during that period involved the struggle between two Greek Industrial

giants, Stavros Niarchus and Aristottle Onassis. Maheu had been

retained as a trouble shooter for Niarchus. Onansis had just con-

cluded a pact with King Saud which would allow him to control approxi-

mately 90 percent of the oil shipments out of Saudi Arabia. In con-

sumating the deal, he allegedly employed every trick in the book.

His achievement caused much consternation among the British,

German, and American interests. Niarchus also realized as a

result of thia the balance of power and influence weighed heavily in

EYES ONLY

SECRET

Excluded tram aute clie

---

## Page 2

• SECRET

EYES ONLY

favor of Onassis in their own private battle. It was this mutual

concern of the United States and Niarchus that set the stage for

& joint venture. Niarchus mapplied the money, personnel, and

documents; the Agency furnished the communications, courter

facilities, and direction in the form of our Commo channel, pouch

«yater, and the NEA Divislon's expertise and guidance.

5. Spyridon Catapodi, & Greek Broker, who had an ax te

grind againat Onassis as a result of being manipulated out of a

handsome commission he believed due him for his Intercession

with certain Saudi officials to secure oil rights for Onassis, spear-

headed & campaign to publieize Onasals' high-handed methode of

operation. This triggered off all sorts of international litigations

which erupted into suits and countersuite by all parties concerned.

Of particular note war the case of Catapodis va. Onasain, which

suit was filed in New York State. While Niarchus was being exam-

Ined before trial by Onassis' attorney, he claimed Government

privilege in answering certain questions. This tact was challenged

by the attorney and pursued to the point that eventually it was re-

corded in the briefs filled by both the plaintiff and the defendent that

CIA was, in fact, the Government agency of interest. Close coor-

dination was matatained during this perlod with Justice and State.

At our requeat a representative of the U. B. Attorney's Office in

New York monitored all of the Hearings. MI. Houston is intimately

familiar with the actions in this case, and copies of his memoranda

pertinent to it are contained in his files.

6. The Security file on Subject contains a Covert Security

Clearance issued 16 August 1954 at the request of NE/2. Att:

William Miller, for Maheu's use on Project TWIXT. Other inter-

•sted DD/P personnel were identified as William F. Rowland.

Actino Chief NEA Diylaion; George Prussing; Walter Snowden: and

Mr. Maheu was contacted to determine whether the Com

mittee had been in touch with him. He stated he was not aware of

their interest in him. When the Taggart conversation was men-

tioned, he promptly replied that it must be the Onassis operation

they are looking into. He recalled that he had Onassis' New York

office "covered" sometime during the period. John Frank, a

EYES ONLY

SECRET

-- 5.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

'SECRET

EVES ONLY

former staff employee, and then a private Investigator, was en-

gaged to arrange for the coverage. Maheu could only Identlly the

tochnician by the name of Leos. Presumably, this coverage wa

done as a routine technique to keep the Niarchus interests Informed

on Onassis' movements. This was not initiated at the reguest of

any Agency component no far al our records indicate.

8. Subsequently, Maheu advised he had received a message

from one of the Committee's attorneys named Homme who wanted

to fly out to talk with hira.

Mabeu fended him off by saying he was

tled up for the next several days. He then contacted his attorney.

Edward P. Morgan, of Washington, D. C., and it was decided that

Morgan would meet him in St. Louls on 24 May los a conference.

9. On Thurday morning, 26 May. Maheu called to advise

that he was at the Madison Hotel, Washington, D. C., and wa

anxious to talk with us. At his request it was arranged to have

Colonel Edwards accompany a member of this office to meet with

10. Maheu opened the conversation by announcing that he bad

been selected to be the star performer on a planned TV hearing

which in scheduled to open within the next few weeks. He went on

to give the banis for this statement in the following detail.

When he first talked to Ed Morgan of the possibility

of his being subpoenaed. Morgan assured him that he

had nothing to be concerned about inasmuch as he was

a very close friend of Senator Long'e personal attorney

who had considerable influence upon the Senator.. The

lawyer resides in St. Louls, and he suggested that they

both go out and solicit his assistance. After the presen.

tation of the facts, all three flew to Washington where

the lawyer secured an appointment with the Senator.

Mr. Bernard Fensterwald was in attendance at the

meeting. He identified himself as the Chief Attorney

for the Committee. According to Maheu, Fensterwald

made it clear that Maheu was their ace in the hole and

without him the Hearings would have no appeal. He

implied that Maheu's clients and their opposition added

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 4

74-00000

SECRET

EYES ONLY

up to & very attractive package. Such headlinere

al Niarchus, Onassis, Dave McDonald, and Howard

Hughes are hard to come by. Fensterwald further

referred to Maheu as the type who employed the

tochnique of cutting the Government in just enough

on his touchy operation to permit him to bide behind

their akirta 1f he were caught. It is the opinion of

the lawyer that, unless the Senator can be convlaced

to the contrary, he will proceed with plans on schedule.

11. Maheu's most active account and, at this time, almost

exclusive client in Howard Hughes, In the past he did considerable

work for Dave McDonald, former president of the United Steel

Workers. So far as thin office knows, the Agency never had any.

interent in elther of these clients. However,. It should be notedthat

the IO Division was granted a Covert Security Approval on 4 June

1959 to approach Maheu and advise him of the Agency'e Interest in

international labor.. Maheu claims he never became involved is any

"bugging" operation for either of these accounts.

It is not believed that Maheu wants or axpects us to front

for him in the Onassis tap matter. As mentioned previously, to our

knowledge this was not Agency sponsored. However, If exploited,

it would probably eventually lead to exposing our part in the Onassis/

Niarchus feud.

As it is a matter of court record, it could not be

denied nor buried. Even though the detaile might be protected by

a declaration that it involved classified operational information, it

would set up a field day for the press and critice of the Agency.

13. Mi. Maheu ls presently furnishing cover for a DODS staff

agent in his Washington, D. C., office. In this connection, two of

Maheu'a employees have been cleared and witting. Other clearance

actions noted were: CSA granted FI/Plans, Cover Division on

30 August 1954 for use under LPHIDDEN; CSA issued to NE Division

on 7 October 1959 for Maheu's use In the United States and

imammerch

as he may be employed byl

To handle

public relations in the United States.

LIES ONLY

SECRET

4/PU

Hastar

note

---

## Page 5

11.00000

SECRET

EVES ONLY

14. In 1958-59, Maheu was used by the FE Division in two

sensitive operations targeted against Sukarno. Mr. Allen Dulles

was aware and approved of these operations. Mr. Joseph Smith

who was then Chies/Ma. 1e knowledgeable of the action..

15. While none of our interents in Maheu relate to wire-

tapping, it ia evident that the extensive and diversified use of him

makes us vulnerable to exploitation should he be Interrogated in

depth regarding his activities.

16. Mr. Maheu in maintaining a cooperative attitude and

has promised to do all in his power to protect the Agency from

embarrassment or compromise.

5

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

