# 104-10181-10198

## Page 1

104-10181-10198

os. P. MAOGIO

UNIT

EXT - 61,71

1736

DATE 10 SEPTEMBER: 1952

TO .SRS BELON

FiON: D00000& CRITRAL INTELLIO

CONF

TFW 10

DDP, C1, .CI/OPS, S/C?

TO

OPIN

TED PRISA

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

261-512966

OUTING

..niega.i.

03

I I Stro

12

01552

PETE CEN

ROUTINE

Nu 75022

CITE DiR

TE SECURES:

ATLA GENCE ACRICY

LET TONS

VAST, SECURITY DIVISION

DERI

PAST DE TEAM TOROKE STATION OST, INSPECTOR ODISRAt

SURITE POSTALE DONAT SETES AT BABA, CUBA EX ALPHA 66 ONCANIZATION

•L. RETIRENCE IS MADE TO THIS AGINCI'S TELETYPE MESSOR; OUS TL6Ok, DATED

9 SEPTEMBER 1962, SUBBET AS ABOVE.

2. THE SAME SOURCE OR THR INCIATION CONTAINED IN THE ABOVE REFERENCED

TELETYPE REPORTED ON 10 SEPTIBER THAT THE ALPHA 66 STRIKE AT HABANA WAS EXPECTED

AT 0200 HOURS: E.S.F. ON 10 SEPTICHER BUT IN DELATED FOR ANY REASON IT WOULD BE

MADE AT 0200 HOURS ON 11 SEPTEMBiR.

3O SAME SOURCE PARAGRAPE 2 ABOVE REPORTS THAT ANTONIO VECIANA BLANCE POSTPONED

HIS DEPARTURS FRON ATANI, FLORIDA, FOR POSITO RICO UNCIL II SEPPINER.

L. ACCORDINO TO SOURCE, THE BOAT CRISY IS COMPOSTO DE TIVE MEN AND THE AROAMERE

INCLUDES ONE RUTS -57 (ANTI-TARE TIPE), THE BOAT IS HIDINO AMONO THE KEIS NEAR

CUBA AND RAS NO RADIO. YECIANAYS ONLY SOURCE OF NEWS WILL, 8E ANY CUBAN RADIO

ANNOUNCEMENT. VECIANA HAS HAD NO SUREP DURIRO THE PAST L8 HOURS DUE TO HIS

LISTENINO FOR NEWS AND MAKING. CONTAGES IN PREPARATION FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS.

50 AS ADDITIONAL INTORMATICN CONCERNING THR ACTIVITIES OF THE ALPHA 66

ORGANIZATION AND ITS HEHBERS IS BEGSAYIA ET HIS AGENGH, FEAT, HE PROMPTLY FORWARDED

RELEASING OFFICER

OFFICER

::339 'Le REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

ONG

UNT

EXT

DATE

TO ..

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO 1

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

SBCRET

#-*#

ROUTING

HE dio: 881756096.

PAGE TWO

ur mind _

Sizedluit

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 75022

• TO

'INFO:

CITE DIE

TO ADDARSSSES. THIS AGNCY WILI, APPRECIATE RECEIPT CE ANY INPORMATION DEVELOPED ST

LES ON THE ABOVE SUBJECT.

B. IS ABOVE ITORUTION IS BEING MADS AVAILABLE TO THE INGRATION AND

NATURALIZATION SERVICE, TO THE BURRAU OF CUSTOMS, AND TO THE BUREAU OF INTERNATIONAL.

PROGRAKS OF THE DEPARTIST OF COMMIRCE.

END CE MESSAGE

INTO BASED ON: WAVE 8420 (IN 19771) 10 SEPT 62

SOURCE: AMSKTN-1

for 0/710.

Pink Q. 212..

By Direction Of Jane Rosan

1539

COOBDINATING OFFICER

SECRET

doreng routing

Aacte aadficates

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

MENTICATE!

OFFICER

Copy Ha.

---

