04-0128-10123 Sotteteys
EE SECRET

IID CHECK

=8 TID Service cary January 1952

CASE NO. 0696 o

SUBJECT: peTTLIPS, David Atlee aka ATLEE, David

IDENTIFYING DATA

No PHS submitted

ARCHIVES SERVICES
[No record ( No record

(C1 Bee attached ([Secattached

(D Nothing derogatory (D Nothing derogatory

a im)

e { Sour eave } information furnished wh )

IS 2-

baYtgst 38-73


BIOGRAPHICAL DATA
NAME: PHILLIPS, David Atlee (ATLEE, David)
BIRTH: October 31, 1922, Fort Worth, Texas.

CITIZENSHIP: U.S.

* ADDRESS: Los Castanos 333, Vina del Mar, Chile Tenant.

FATHER: Edwin Thomas Phillips
MOTHER: Mary Louise Young Phillips
SPOUSE: Helen Haesch Phillips. es i

BROTHERS: Edwin Thomas Phillips, Jr. Neil P. Anderson Bldg. Fort Worth, Texas.
James Young Phippips, 480) Washburn, Fort Worth.
James Olcott Phil lips, 71h Neil P. Anderson Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas.

OFFICAL PAPERS: Carnet of identity for Foreigners, Noe “3013527 » issued in Chile.
Valid indefinitely.

EDUCATION: William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va., drama and English, no degree,
3 “in the year 1910.
Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, Texas, English major, no
degree in the year 19)1.

MILITARY SERVICE: Entered U.S. Air Force in Feb. 1943, served in U.S. Agrica,
Italy with the 85th Bomb Group, Staff Sergeant, armorer-gunner
on B-2h, Air Medal, Purple Heart. Discharged October 31, 1945 on.

points.

MPLOYMENT: Actor,average salary. (Employers. include Camp Shows Inc. and Inter-
state Players, New York and Austin, Texas respectively.) . From 19)1
through 19)3.° Various stock companies in New York and New England.
(Most work done as a vree lance writer, however.) Present occupation
Publisher and Editor of "The South Pacific Meily


PHILLIPS, David Atlee
aka: ATLES, David
# 10696 29 February 1952

0SO File No. 15-1-1-82), dated 12 December 1951, reveals that
one David Atlee PHILLIPS submitted a Perscnal History Statement
and application for Federal employment in triplicate. The commni-
cation is from Chief of Stati on,\ Santi; Be, to Chief, WHD.

Registry advises that there is an applicant card on the Subject.

No further pertinent information was furnished by R. I. Registry.

Special
pecial te Branch me :


Piisiat af

. SECRET

ID CHECK

TO: IID Service DATE,

2 January 1952

SUBIECT: DuTELIPS, David Atlee aka ATLEE, David AEN V696 OC

IDENTIFYING DATA

No PHS submitted

ARCHIVES: SERVICES

No record No record

(Ol See attached = [0 See attached

(FJ Nothing derogatory (] Nothing derogatory

im oO

wavs 38-73 SECRET pista dc onium eaael


ee eee SECRET’

TO: ASST, DEPUTY (INSPECTION & SECURITY) Date: ‘i
FROM: op/op/orc (Security) o.G.:_ P/Y 2 F
SUBJECT:

1. Necessary covert investigation is requested on Subject on whom all available
background data is submitted separately. Information and/or clearance is
requested for case category..as follows:

Operational Cl. X. Security Cl. Sp. Inquiry - Operational Support

2. Name of Special Project (if applicable): FULMINATER

3. Investigation to be completed as: _X_ Routine _____ Expedite
by not later than 7

4, Scope and nature of use or activity: Subject owns and operates a printing ver €
and pzblishing business in Santiago, Chile. He has been operationally
cleared for use in connection with FULMINATER project (see memo of 3 4
“(October 1950 signed by lor ADSO). It is now ed
use his business facilities for
for cut-out and other agent functions commection PC
: projects in contemplation. It is planned to make him a contract agent.

on ct

5. Suggested "cover" for investigation: __ Governmental _X_Commercial
. Other
Specific:

6. Limitations, if any, on investigation: No CIA interest to be shown; no
U.S. Government interest except in usual agency name chetks.
7. Subject HAS/HASXNWE been briefed that investigation is pending.

8. Subject HAS/HASXH@E been briefed on “cover" story to be used in investigation.
Has not
9. Subject AS /HASXNET indicated to probable investigative contacts investiga-
tion pending.

10. Subject MAB/HAS NOT indicated to probable investigative contacts "cover"
story to be used.

ll. CIA indices checks required for provisional operational clearance by

(date)
12, REMARKS: It is hoped this clearance can be granted with a minimm delay
to dissuade subject from his plan to sell his busi d_leave Chile.
PRO background data earlier submitted to I&S.

Hie 398499-%6 (Test) SECRET
