104-10180-10020

: RETUR
‘ N
7 ie , i : Not Reprog Only.
OO uncassieieo = say C1 CONF. \nTiAL” —“} sect?

Te
SAS 64-18

a oar

C/SAS/EDE . + 9 January 1964

TO: (OtRcw devgroton, oom ewnber, ond
bolton)

orrecees ' COMMENTS (Munter soch comment te show fea whom
TPETIAIS | = whom. Grew @ Ene cunt colven ofer euch commant}

1. Chief, “CI Staff
Mr. James Angleton
Psd -

|
!
|
i
1

CS 3/ 179, a4,
30 Tuecey OY
| Prepared % Sie
aman Pagery

JN = 742.862.

1

fom 610 “iss” [] SECRET ] CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL 7] UNCLASSIFIED



Document Nuniber 12 (3-] (28

for FOIA Review on FEB 197

(is source DOCUMENT FOR
DOC SO8-2I4 in OSWALD SLGLET
Zot.)

» SaURET,

9 January 1964
SAS 64-18

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Cl/Staff
James Angleton

Memo received from AMTOUT-1

SUBJECT

Attached is a translation of a memo sent to Carlos Marquez
Sterling. Sterling gave a copy of the memo to AMTOUT-1, an
SAS/EDE asset, who passed it on to us,

"The Brigadier of Giron, Sr. Evidio Pereira, who is in
constant communication with Cuba, informs the General Delegate
of the Movimiento Patriotico Cuba Libre, ... news of great
importance.

‘1. Notify the ‘Pentagon of this fact: Ruby, the assassin

of Oswald was in Havana a year ago. He is a friend and
customer of a citizen named Praskin, owner or manager

of a novelty shop for tourists located between Animas y
Trocadero, Paseo del Prado, in front of the Hotel Sevilla, "

"This information, received in Miami, as noted at the
beginning of this memorandum, were received by Brigadier of
Brigade 2506, Evidio Pereira, who is ready to verify them,

New York, 29 December 1963,"

Pereira is probably Evidio B, Pereira Acosta, DPOB 12 March 1927,
Gral, Carrilo, Las Villas, 201-298242, member of Brigade 2506,
There are no SAS traces on Praskin, - 3

