ro4t0216-10716

“peeing

ee esas
S-E-C-R-E-T J
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

techs

CONTENTS
i
' Introduction EXPLANATORY NOTES
i Unit 1 BASIC BIOGRAPHIC DATA
| Unit 2 CURRENT POLITICAL BELIEFS
i Unit 3 PRIOR POLITICAL BELIEFS
H unit i ATTITUDE TOWARD REGIME
j Unit 5 REGIME'S ATTITUDE TOWARD SUBJECT t
; Unit 6 FINANCIAL STATUS :
| Unit 7 EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND i
Unit & MILITARY BACKGROUND
| Unit 9 FOLLOWING WITHIN THE MILITARY :
Unit 10 OTHER PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND
| Unit 12 FAMILY BACKGROUND
{ Unit 12 MARITAL STATUS AKD CHILDREN
| Unit 13 EXTRA-MARITAL ACTIVITIES AND/OR ABERRATIONS !
Unit 1b PERSONAL HABITS 4
Unit 15 SPORTS, HOBBIES, SPECIAL SKILIS ‘
Unit 16 CONTACTS IN CUBA 3
Unit 17 CONTACTS OUTSIDE CUBA t
Unit 18 ‘TRAVEL 5
Unit 19 CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 3
Unit 20 SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Unit 21 MOTIVATION
f Unit 22 STRENGTAS
Unit 23 WEAKNESSES
Unit 2k FIELD ESTIMATE

3
r
:

S-E-C-R-E-T
RO FOREIGN DISSEM



S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EXPLANATORY NOTES

;
:

In order that they may make maximum use 6: this dossier, users ere i
urged to become familiar with the following information. _ |

i Militery Ranks in Cuba

As reported 27 September 1963, ranks of the Cuban Revolutionary
Armed Forces are as follows: i

|

Major in Chief (Comandante en Jefe) race

Arzy Major (Comandante de Ejército) 7

Corps Major (Comandante de Cuerpo) Po

Major (Comandante) |
j
H

First Cevtain (Primer Capitén) 4

Captain (Capitén)
First Lieutenant (Primer Teniente)

Lieutenant (Teniente)

Sub-Lieutenant (Sub Teniente)

Sergeant First Class (Sargento de Primera)
Sergeant Second Class (Sargento de Segunda)

Sergeant Third Class (Sargento de Tercera)

Corporal (Cabo) HE i
Private (Soldado) j

Spanish Names

Much of the confusion concerning Spanish names can be eliminated if
one basic fact is clearly understood: Spanish speaking people use their
mother's maiden name (matronymic) after their last name (patronymic).
For example, Fidel Castro's full name is Fidel Castro Ruz--Ruz being
the matronymic {and in this case seldom used). In this dossier the last
name is the one capitalized end will appear as

Juan GOMEZ Dfaz, or
GOMEZ Diez, Juan

S-E-C-R-E-T (continued)
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

sige ewan en anata



$n rl SRA ME NNT

ro

S-E-C-R-E-?
yg 10 FOREIGN DISSEM
~

CUBA (Lazaro) Rolando CUBELA Secades

NICKNAME:

RANK: Comandante (persthixetatsdbotapiren) as

of October 1963.

POSITION: Most recently a student at Allience
Frencaise in Paris, France.

DPOB: 19 January 1933, Cienfuegos, Las Villas
Province.

RELIGION:

as aaa Spanish (native); English (fair to good); French (probably
HEIGHT: 5' 11"

WEIGHT: 175 pounds

RACE: Caucasian

COLOR HAIR: Dark, wavy, thinning noticeably on top.

COLOR EYES: Brown

DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS: Eyes rather small for his fece, small
nose, almost petulant mouth, feir complexion, hair usually needs
combing. Expression is tense unless he is bored or fatigued at which
time his left eyelid droops. Dresses informally by preference, and is
Prone to wearing a jacket without a tie. When properly dressed,
presents @ good appearance in a masculine vay.

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: Casa Cubena, Paris, France.

Suerte: Novenber 1963

Unit 1

S-E-C-R-E-T
RO FOREIGN DISSEM

i

est Seualisantsostttonoatt



1
i
|

\

may ae

S-E-C-R-B-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CURREN? POLITICAL RELIEFS:

Until 1961-62 Subject showed a pronounced anti-US and pro-
Communist, pro-Castro bias. More recently, however, there har been

information indicating that he does not bold to his formar views and

is thinking of leaving Cuba, The Progression of his political

thinking is visible in the following extracts. ~

1959: A US resident of Cuba whose source was

ieader reported that the swing to the left of the University Students
Federation (Federacidh Estudiantil Universitaria - FEU) vas confirued

by the decision made at the end of November 1959 to
menber of the Conmunist-run International Union of
(However, the FEU also retained ‘its association witl

a Cuban youth

become a full
Students (IUS).

h the Coordinating

Secretariat, of the National Union of Students - COSEC,)

Editorial Note: Since this swing to the left of th

only & month or so after Subject became president of that organization
it does not, seem likely that he could have so quickly influenced the
predominantly Catholic university. On the other hand, one of the FEU

vice presidents, Jos& VENEGAS Valdespino, tas by Not

the latin American Department of the FEU, an indication that the FEU
vas organizing its area departments along the exact lines of the area

departments in the Cuban Ministry of State (Foreign

ie FEU happened

vember headirg

Ministry?).

1959-60: Subject and other FEU leaders entertained a group of

Red Chinese students in Havana,

March 1960: An anti-Communist student-leader said that Subject
was neither pro- nor anti-Communist. The source felt that Subject's

only desire was to prevent discord during bis term of office as FEU

president.

March 1960: In late March a Mixed Commission at th:
of Havana met to discuss’ the establishment of Disciplinary Tribunals.

The president of the commission, Rafael SANICS Jimenez, and others
objected, saying the old disciplinary councils had been suspended
becduse more modern and efficient legislation was being studied by

the commission and it was only logical to vait until this legislation
ALi the arguments

Subject said he
Present on campus

was promulgated before establishing new triturals,

had@ no effect on Subject and Angel QUEVEDO Valdivia.
had never seen so many Catholics ana anti-Commnists

“attempting to deny the existence of fréedon of speech and written

expression." He added that, "everyone knows that no one 18 more opposed

8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

i
he

Continued

CUBELA, Secades,
(tézardJRolando

Unit 2

ie University ©



i es : F S-E-C-R-F-T moe,
ae WO FOREIGN DISSEM :
CURREN? TOLTEICAL BELIEFS: (Cont'd)

than we are to coercion and violence.” Subject and Quevedo won when
Santos changed his vote, and the tribunals were immediately established.

May 1960: Subject told a general assembly of university students
i that Communist Professor Carlos Rafael RODRIGUEZ Rodriguez vas doing

| hic duty and must be given the same respect as other professors. He

' close’ the meeting by scoring the counterrevolutionary attitude of

some students and said that the university could not be for "those
1 traitors who prefer foreign intervention in Cuba,"

May 1960: Subject and bis followers in the FEU leadership held
the floor at the macabre “burial” of the newspaper Diario de la Marina
| and not only turned it into a vicious anti-American display bat also

condemned the anti-Communist students at the university as enemies of
the revolution.

¢

May 1 The paper Informacion published a letter from Joaquin
PEREZ Rodriguez, vice secretary of the School of Agronomy at the
University of Havana, in which he stated that so-called "terroristic
activities" of anti-Communist students were nothing more than a pre-
fabricated pretext on the part of Subject's clique to justify or j
rationalize strong-arm methods aguinst.all who opposed the Communist H
minority. He asked how, if Subject's leadership deplored violence, it :
could remin impassive when the Communist. youth from tie Instituto de i .
ia Habara entered the university grounds fully armed and perpetrated
acts of violence against him (Perez). He also asked what moral
authority Subject and Quevedo might hope to invoke when they vent
across campus carrying arms in direct violation of university
regulations.

i Sane 1960: Subject was in Uruguay as a guest of the pro-
: Coumunist-Federation of Uruguayan Students. We held talks with i
! Communists and gave press conference statements which included such
Comnunist-line items as “Fatherland or Death," "Death to Tra‘tors," :
“Anti-Castro students serve bastard interests," War criminals are

being trained at the Yankee base of Guantanamo," etc.

October 1960: After a short trip to New York City with the Cuban
delegation to the United States a responsible US consular official
if said that his presence in the United States was prejudicial ts the :
i national interest and recommended that his valid visa be revoked. i

October 1960: A State Department despatch noted that Subjects
action regarding the Enbassy evacuation notice, his violent :
denunciation of that notice, and his denunciation of the Embassy :
itself in the local press clearly pointed out his anti-US bias.

Continued

CUBELA Secades
(TézarQRotando”

Unit 2
S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

i BANE EN SSRIS, a CSN RNR ATER iit rte acset be

Le



|
|
|
|
|
|
|
i

BOR nee ete penny o ome a ce

S-E-C-H-E-T —
PIE No FOREIGN DISSEM :

CURRENT POLITICAL BELIEFS: (Cont'd)

December 1960: It was stated that Subject had gained prominence
in the FEU through Rauil CASTRO, It was allegedly common knowledge
that Subject had sold out morally aud politically to Castro who had
forced him on the FEU as president after his lack of character and
political force became know, Between January 1959 and the tine he
became president of the FEU (October 1959) he served as a sort-of
mediator between Communist and non-Comunist groups in the University
of Havana,

January 1961: Subject was reportedly to go to Spain in the near
future under a fictitious name and without his beard, He was
allegedly going to be chief of an uction group penetrating Spain from

*

March 1961: Subject was reportedly arrested attempting to flee
Cuba but this was alleged to be a trap for anti-Castroites, with
Subject's participation, g

Mey 1961: Subject was a delegate to the Latin American Conference
on National Sovereignty, Economic Independence, and Peace, in Mexico
City, This conference was sponsored by Mexican Communist Lazaro
CARDENAS del Rfo, Subject subscribed to the Charter of México, a
dccument containing anti-US resolutions.

1962: In May a report from Bern, Switzerland said Subject
wanted to flee Cuba and would try to get permission to visit some
European country and defect, In August his ex-wife was allegedly
telling friends that Subject did not intend to return to Cuba from
Helsinki, which he was then visiting. Also in August Subject
reportedly said that he was thoroughly disgusted at present.with the
situation in Cuba and plannéd to do something about it. He stated
that: "foreign-controlled Cubar assets" had tried to contact him but
“he avoided them," He did, hovever, plan to contact someone on his
next trip out of Cuba,

1962: The US Army reported that Subject controlled the students
at the University of Havana. This report said that his loyalty to the
Comiunist Party was uncertain. It has been said at times that he has
conspired against.Castro. It has also been stated that he speaks
against the United States to please Fidel Castro.

ese CUBELA Secades,
a (ézaro)Rolando

Unit 2

8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

i



$-B-C-R-E-T cn
PYF vo FOREIGN DISSEM

PRIOR POLITICAL BELIEFS;

At the time of the Batista coup on 10 March 1952 Subject was one
of the first to start working against the Batista regime in Havana
University together with José Antonio ECHEVERRIA Bianchi (now
deceased), Fructuoso ROPRIGUEZ (now deceased) » Faure CHOMON y
Mediavilla, Juan Pedro CARBO Servia (now deceased) and José MACHADO
(now deceased),

At the time of the 1955 border incident between Costa Rican and
Nicaraguan troops, Subject went to Costa Rica together with other
members of the University Students Federation to defend Costa Rica,
When he returned to Cuba he rejoined the fight against the Batista
regime,

In 1956 Subject participated in the assassination of Lt. Col.
Antonic BLANCO Rico of Uatista's Military Intelligence (SIM). Be
defended this in a 1959 press conference, calling Batista a dictator,
assassin, despoller of the riches of Cuba which left the revolutionary
government @ legacy of a Cuban national debt of one billion dollars,

From January 1958 until Batista's overthrow a year later Subject
fought in the Escambray Mountains as one of th: leaders of the
Revolutionary Directorate (Directorio Revolucionario - DR) which had
made a forml pact with forces of the 26th of duly Movement and with
the Second Front cf the Escambray to work together until Batista vas
overthrown,

CUBELA Secades,
: ae Uézarc)Rolando

Unit 3

_S-B-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

i
i
i

i
i
!



|
i
|
|

aa

as S-E-C-R-E-T ~—
i WO POREIGN DISSEM

AGTITUDE TUeARD REGIME:

1959: During the early spring Subject reportedly frankly
expressed to Fidel CASTRO his dissatisfuction with the regime.

1959: Prior to September Subject reportedly told intimates
that he was so disgusted with Castro that if he, Subject, did not get
out of Cuba soon he would kill Castro himself, Early in October his
feelings reportedly had not changed.

March 1960: Following a near riot among university students when
Communist and Radical elements, despite the efforts of the Cathclic
groups, prevented by mass force the entry of anti-Communist, well-
known commentator Luis CONTE Aguero into television station CMQ over
which he was to read an oppositicn letter to Fidel Castro concerning
Communist infiltration, Subject declared that anti-Covernzent
Politicsi demonstrations would not be pernitted within the university
and that still less would demonstrations organized ty students who
aided the counterrevolution be permitted to ascend the university
steps. If they did so, he said, they would not te able to return to
the university for they would te judged before the Disciplinary
Tribunals ard condemned as traitors to the fatherland and the
revolution.

May 1960: He told a general assembly of univers{ty students
that Communist Professor Carlos Rafael RODRIGUEZ Rodriguez was doing
his duty and must be given the same respect as other professors, He
closed the meeting by scoring the counterrevolutionary attitude of
some students and said that the university cannot be for those
traitors vho prefer foreign intervention in Cuba.

May 1960: Subject and bis followers in the FEU leadership held
the floor at the macabre “burial” of the nevspaper Diario de la
Marina and not only turned it into a vicious anti-US display but also
used it to condemn anti-Communist students at the university as
enemies of the revolution.

August 1960: An article in The Reporter stated that Subject had
said; “The university cannot stand aside from the nation. The
revolution must enter the university, Incompetent, immoral and
counterrevolutionary professors must go.”

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
(ldzarc) Rolando

Unit 4

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

}
i

1
|
!
i



|
|
i
i
|
i
i
i
i
i
:

a) S-E-C-8-E-7 :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ATTITUDE TOWARD REGIME: (Conta) i

August 1960: A Cuban businessman reported that a fake antie
Governnent movement headed by Subject iad been initiated by follovers
of the regine for the purpose of. infiltrating tru anti-government
Groups. He was reportedly using as ts Jcsé ABRAHANTES Fernandez
Of the 26th ‘ef July Movemaut and Yailio Jaime FIGUERES y Ams, liaison
officer between G-2 and the Ministry cf State and a member of the
Communist Popular Socialist Party (FSP),

December 1960: It was said thet he bad gained prominence in the
University Students Federation (Federacién Estudiantil Universitaria «
FFU) ‘through Real Castro, to whom he Sai sold out worally and
Politically, :

Februsry 1961: A report during Ss mouth stated that Subject
had wade overtures to various Eubassies for asylun. This has not been
confirmed,

March 1961: Subject was reportedly arrested attempting to flee
Cuka. His attempted departure was allezed to be a trap with Subject's
witting pacticipation, and it resulted in the arrest of several
anti-Castro individuals.

April 1961: A Cuban civil engineer in the United States said he
had received a message on 11 April fron Dr. Aruardo de CARDENAS y pee
Aranguren (who defected to the United States ir. August 1961) that
Subject wanted to defect but vas under close surveillance and needed
an excuse to leave Cuba by legal means. Dr. Cardenas was called .
Subject's “boy friend” in common gossip. ‘

August 1961: Subject told an intieate friend prior to departure
for a tour of the USSR, the Soviet Bloc, India, Japan, Italy, Spain
ard France that he knew his usefuiness to the regime vas over ami fis!
that if he remained in Cuba he vould te liquidated in the very near i
futures He said that he had had serious arguments with Fidel CASTRO i
and with Ernesto “Che" GUEVARA de la Serna over his successor es :
President of the FEU. Subject wanted to name his own successor ard ‘
not accept their choice of the Comunist Ricardo Alarcon, secretary i
Seneral of the FEU when Subject was its president. Subject also said '
he vas too involved with the actions cf the Government of Cuba to
become a.defector like José PARDO Llada, but hoped to remain in ‘
France at the completion of the above-mentioned tour to take post- i
Graduate medical work in a school in Frances

Continued
sg, ,CUBELA Secades
: : oa (l&zaro)Rolanao”
i Unit 4

S-B-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



3
i
i
H
i

ary S-E-C-R-E-T aa
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ATTITUDE TOWARD REGIME: (Cont'd)

In January 1962 @ Cuban exile said that Subject had probably
decided not to defect because of fear that ke would be put in an
immigration detention camp: (see Unit 23, Weaknesses),

April 1962: Fidel CASTRO sent one fnu CUBELA, possibly identical
with Subject, to the intericr to criticize local militia for their
attempts to win public support. He stayed at the home of one
Eugcaio HERNANDEZ and publicly reprimanded the chief of the Canajuani
militia. Hernfndez, who is an employee of the Department of Sanitation
in Cawajusni, has a son, 4 classmate of Subject, who is a counter-
revoluticrary. Wher Eern&ndez told Subject about his sen's activities,
Subject did not seem concerned,

1962: The US Army reported that Subject controlled the students
at the University of Havana. His loyalty to the Commmist Party vas
uncertain. It had been said at tires that he had conspired against
Castro. it nad also been said that. he spoke against the United States
to please Castro.

1962: He was reportedly involved in plotting the overthrow of
Fidel Castro with other menbers of the military and government,
specifically, Felipe GUERRA Matos, Comandante Pedro MIRET Prieto,
Capitdn Lester RODRIGIEZ Pérez (as of 23 July 1963 director of
ferrous metallurgy, Metallurgical Branch of Consolidated Enterprises
Which is subordinate to the Ministry of Industry), Cozandante Faustino
PEREZ Hernéndez, Gustavo ARCOS y Bergnes (Cutan Ambassaior to Belgium
and leader of this group), José Marfa de la AGUILERA y Fernandez del
Nogal (who was in June 1963 secretary general of the Cuban Confeder-
ation of Labor), Capitém Juan NJIRY y Sanchez and Comandante Jorge
SERGUERA Riveri.

1962: During summer westings with his friend Carlos TEPEDINO
Gonzalez (now in exile in the United States) he reportedly said that
he could not go tack to his forner wife even if he wanted to because
she had been too outspoken in her dislike for the Castro regine, He
also wentioned her desire to lesve Cuba, This comment was tased on
the supposition that Subject might be vorking agaizst the Castro
regime in Cuba on his return to that country.

Continued

CBELA Secades.
é (deard Rotardo”

Unit 4

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



| Nstanismanakasa ves neakentausianisennencieian

Assy 8-P-C-R-E-T aN
E NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ATTITUDE TOWARD REGIME: (Cont'd)

1963: In Paris in late 1963 a high-ranking official of the Cuban
Interior Ministry suid that Angel QUEVEDO Valdivia, an official of the
FEU, and Subject, a former studert leader, had resigned from the rebel
army after difficulties with Rafil CASTRO. The difficulties oceu:-red
after Subject and QUEVEDO hai completed a senior army training course
snd, instead of receiving the rank cf conandante which they had held
during the revolution, were told ty Ratil Castro that they were being
demoted to capitdn., Both then resigned,

CUBELA Secaées,
(28carc) Roiando

Unit 4

S-E-C-R-E-T
RO FOREIGN DISSEM



sem scean ees

ey S-E-C-R-E-T Caney
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REGIME'S ATTITUDE TOWARD SUBJECT:

1959: Subject was recognized as a leader of the Revolutionary
Directorate (Directorio Revoluctonario - DR) group that fought in the
Sierra del Escambray.

March 1959: On 25 March the Gaceta Oficial announced that
Subject had been promoted from comndante in the rebel army to
comandante in the revolutionary army and that he had been appointed
to the post of Cuban military attaché to Spain by Fidel CASTRO, He
left on or about 27 March to take up this position, It was reported
that there had been some friction between the members of the DK and
members of the 26th of July Movement, Members of’ the DR feit ‘that
Fidel Custro and the 26th of July were not giving the DR enough
recogni*to: for their work in the combat against Batista, There was
also \hought that this appointment of Subject to Spain was the
boginnin: ci an attempt on the part of the Castros to separate the DR
leader, Subject had been second in command of the DR.

Sune 1959: An ex-DR leader was reported holding a position in
the Cuban Government, On Subject's return from Spain he had been
appointed to a position of Under Secretary in the Ministry of the
Interior.

Septeuber 1959: Armando HART Davalos proposed to Fidel Castro
that the Ministry of Education appoint a commissioner to supervise
university activities. Castro said no on the grounds that it would
be offensive to the students, that it would show direct government
intervention, and that the university had historically been autonomous.
As long as this continued the revolutionary authorities could not carry
out a university reform program, A practical approach was found when
the DR nominated Subject as a candidate for the presidency cf the
University Student Federation (Federacién Estudiantil Universitaria -
FEU). Castro and other revolutionary leaders saw Subject as a
candidate who could be influenced and won over to the 26th of July
Movement. Castro showed no open indication that he supported either
Subject of the 26th of July's candidate, Pedro Luis BOITEL; however,
it, was said that he had made a private deal with Subject to win con-
trol over the student body. US officials commented that this deal
seemed unlikely since Subject had previously told intimates he
would kill Castro if he, Subject, did not get out of Cuba soon. He
said that he was disgusted with the regime. Another source gave the
Same account but said that it was Raul Castro rather than Fidel who
Spproached Subject. Subject resigned from his post as Under Secretary
in the Interior Ministry to becoue a candidate for FEU president ana
was elected on 17 October 1959.

Continued

tae vey CUBELA Secades,
af oe : a (L4zaro)Rolando

Unit 5

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1
1
H



|
j
|
|
I
|
i
i
i

i
H
|

|
|

|

!

i

{

“TTrmntancranstncnan tit Scat cre ee

.

‘

be

~ S-R-C-RE-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REGIME'S ATTTTUDR ToVeRD suPmcT, i

December 1959: Subject and Ral CASINO were reportedly
Surprised in the latter's home in the Camp Colombia headquarters
waking obvious homosexual advances toward one another, Subject later
fell into disgrace vith regime, It is not known whether this was due |
to his unsatisfactory performance as a student leader or vhether he : .
had a falling out with Rail Castro, It was supposedly common Z
knowledge that Subject had obtained the FEU presidency through Radi
Castro to whom he had sold cut morally and politically, It was also
said that he was picked for the FEU post because Fidel thought he
could be controlled, “

May 1950: As president of the FEU, Subject’ received the task
(from the government) cf inciting and bruiting about the fact that
the powers-that-be disapproved of Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango. The
latter and 4 thousand-odd well-wishers who had gathered at the air- ;
Port to greet him on his return from Caracas were set upon by a small
but well-organized pro-Comunist phalanx, The government also used
Subject and angel QUEVEDO Valdivia, then secretary general of the FEU,
to attuck (Manuel) Antonio de VARONA y Loredo, Aureliano Sénchez
Arango aud (Rafael) Mario LLERENA Rodciguez for their participation
in the Second Congress for Liberty and Democracy which was held’ in b-
Caracas in early May. Subject and Quevedo issued a statement to the
effect that Varona, Sanchez and Llerena did not represent any element [:
in Cuba. This was a significant comment because (although it had been :
kmown that the three had tacitly opposed the revolutionary government's |
extremist trend) this was the first strong stand the three leaders
made against the regime,

May 1960: Subject denounced the (US?) Eubassy “aviso"
(unidentified) as irrefutable proof of US plans to commit aggression
Sgainst Cuba, All government~aligned elements in the following days :
pointedly expressed their support for the FEU and the "thousand-times !
glorious" Comandante Cubela (Subject), its president. : i

August 1960: Contacts among student circles in Havana stated ;
that Subject was likely to be removed from the presidency of the FEU {
because he had shown reluctance to adhere to Communist orders, It was

thought that he might be charged (presumably as an excuse to discharge '
him) with using 1,000 pesos given to the FEU for the election of Mise |
Universe, for personal entertainment of friends in Varaderc, Cuba. i

Continued

CUBELA Secad:
(earo)Rolande’

Unit 5

S-E-C-R-E-T
KO FOREIGN DISSEM i

So cee nee aA ACCROSS AR asset



im) S-F-C-R-E-T cdi
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REGIME'S ATTITUDE TOWARD SULJECT:

Decenber 1960: The government-ccntrolled newspaper El Mundo
announced that Subject had becn named presiient of the newly
established Revolutionary Vigilante Committee in the University of
Havana, Similar committees were to be established throaghout the
country, US officials called Subject Pidel CASTRO's "sharpshooter
in the University, of Havana,"

March 1961: Subject was reportedly arrested in an attempt to
flee Cuba but this was alleged tu be a trap with Subject's
participation, It resulted in the arrest of several anti-Castroites,

August 1961: Subject told an intimte friend prior to departure
for a tour of the USSR, Europe and other countries, that he knew his
usefulness. to the regiie was over and that if he remainea in Cuba
he would be liquidated in the very near future. He reportedly said
he had had serious arguments with Fidel Castro and Ernesto "Che"
GUEVARA de Ja Serna over his suecessor as president of the FEU, He
wanted to name his own successor and not accept their choice of
Communist Ricardo ALAKCON, secretary general of the FEU while
Subject was president,

March 1962: Fidel Castro reportedly called in Subject and
other aruy compnders (Jos¢ Mirfa dela AGUILERA, Felipe GUERRA Matos,
Juan NUIRY y Sdnchez, Jorge SERCUERA Riveri and Pedro MIRET Prietc) to
tell then that the Communists were trying to take over the Governaent
of Cuba, He asked the group to back him up and they agreed, Never-
theless, the source of this report stated that these leaders vere
thought to be planning to assassinate Fidel and Rafi Castro and "Che"
Guevara and take over the government for themselves. They thought
this plan would succeed because they were in charge ef regular army
and nilitia troops. The source attributed the sabotage that vas
then current in Eavana to the work of this group,

April 1962: Fidel Castro sent one fnu CUSELA, possibly identical
with Subject, to the interior to criticize the local militia for their
attempts to win public support. He stayed at the home of one Eugenio
HERNANDEZ and publicly reprimanded the chief of the Camajuani
militia. (See Unit 4, Attitude toward Regime.)

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
(E4zaro)Rolsndo

Unit 5

S-E~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

a cembes

i



YS B-E-C-R-E-T a
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REGIME'S ATTITUDE TOWARD SUBJECT:

Tune 1962; reported that one Captain
Waldo MARTINEZ (pocsTbly Walso de Sesu MARTINEZ Ordoqui), a Communist,

said that Subject vas in charge of a tank unit composed of students
in the University of Havana. This unit was located in the block
between Calles 23 and 25 and J ant L, (As early as January 1962 a
high-level Cuban Minister in exile in the United States had reported
that Subject was in charge of the University of Havana defenses to
make the university a major center of resistance to any anti-govern=
ment attack.

Early March 1963: A Cuban Ccvernment, employee with good contacts
in military services reported on 25 April 1963 that Subject had been
recalled into active service from his post as a doctor in the

“Municipal Children's Hospital,

Late 1963: Subject reportedly resigned from the rebel army
after difficulties with Rail Castro. The difficulties occurred
after Subject had completed an army training course and instead of
receiving the rank of comardante which he had hela during the
revyluticn he was told by Rail Castro that he was being demoted to
capftan, (See Unit 4, Attitude toward Regime.)

Secades,
(Lazaro) Rolando

Unit 5

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Sy teresa Sls US rcs nme anon



:! mon ania cocina dena
| S-E-C-R-E-T raaan!
i WO FOREIG! DISSEM
H :
| FINANCIAL STATUS: t
| = Subject's financial status is unknown as of December. 1953. Hy
i
i
H
\
i
{
|
i
i
!
i
i
! i
! i
\ :
i
|
i
i
i
1 CUBELA Secades,
_. GétarojRoiando
Unit 6
8-E-C-R-E-T 7
' RO FOREIGN DISSEM :
i
i
oe Se 4
. ° 1 NF BREST aaj YATE As A ON RRC TT OTERO RN SN RA =

{
t
i

i
i
4



q
pooted
i

CUBELA Secades,

(Itzarc)Rolando

ae Unit 7
S-B-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSE
2 RSRRR ALE URARRA SoRE TEE Ai natn supa mre meen nein renee nnn etm atest!

any 8-E-C-R-E-T Emsam)
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND:

Subject attended grammar school in the town of Placetas,
Las Villas Province, and ligh school in "La Progresiva" Presbyterian
Schocl in the City of Cardenas, Matanzas Province. He studied i
Medicine at the University of Havana and graduated as a medical : ’
doctor in 1960.

Subject took a course for rebel army officers in a schcol located
in Matanzas Province and graduated about July 1963.

In late 1963 Subject was a student at the Alliance Frangaise in .
Paris, France, presumably taking postgraduate medical studies as he i
had previously stated he would like to do. He returned to Cuba in ;

i December 1963. !

i
|
i
i
i
|
t
1

ae



S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PACKURUUND: . :

1955-57; At the time of the border incident between Costa Rican and

1956?

1957-58),

1958¢

Nicaraguan troops Subject went to Costa Rica together with
other members of the University Students Federation :
(Federacion Fstudiantil Universitarfa - FEU) to defend
Costa Rica. “When he returned from Costa Rica he rejoined
the fight against the Batista regime, He and others then
founded the Revolutionary Directorate (Directorio
Revolucionarig - DR) organization. After the failure of the
DR's attack against the Presidential Palace on 13 March 1957
many of the leaders sought asylum in the United States.
Subject joined this group of exiles and was appointed a
uember cf the national executive of the DR,

Subject was involved in the assassination of Lt, Col. Antonio
BLANCO Rico of Batista's Military Intelligence (SIM) (see
Unit 3, Prior Politics] Beliefs),

During December 1957-January 1958 Subject made trips to New

York City to buy arms and wir material for an expedition te

Cuba which the DR was preparing. He participated in this

expedition which left Miami on 1 Fetruary 1958 on a 55 foot

yacht. The expeditionzries consisted of 16 men and one

woman, headed by Faure CHOMON Mediavilla, They landed at

the Bay of Nuevitas, Camg'ley Province, on 8 February and

then went by truck to the Escambray Mountains in Las Villas :
Province. Subject participated in the fighting in the 2
Escambray until the fall of the Batista regime. At first he

headed the "José Antonio Echeverria" Column of the DR and

later he was appointed as military chief of the DR. When the my
military forces of the 26th of July Movement headed by

Ernesto "Che" GUEVARA de la Serna arrived at the Escantray,

Subject signed a form military pact in the name cf the IR

with the 26th of July Movenent. Subject headed DR trocps

in the capture of the city of Santa Clara, Las Villas 7
Province, and was wounded in a combat in that city on

30 December 1958. (He was shot by a carbine bullet in the
right arm.), He was thea taken to the town of Placetas , Las
Villas, for uedical attention and subsequently returned to
the front lines, i

In December the DR and the 26th of Ju2y Movement in Las
Villas Province joined forces in the fight against Batista's
army, The DR refused to recognize “Che” Guevara as its
coumander-in-chief and took military orders only from
Subject.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
zaro)Rolando

Unit 8
S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



MILITARY BACKGROUND: (Cont'd)

19598

19605

1961!

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO PCREIGN DISSEM

When BATISTA fled Cuba on 1-January 1959 the DR forces headed

to the Presidential Palace, -1 Refugio Street, Havana, and

occupied it, Subject acted as military chief and on 5 A ‘

January turned the palace over to President Manuel URRUTIA ' "

Lieo after the initial discrezancies regarding the turning

over of the palace had been overcome, 7 1.
i

On 25 March 1959 Subject was promoted from comandante in the
rebel army to comndante in the revolutionary army and was
appointed wilitary attaché te Spain by Fidel CASTRO, He left
on or about 27 March.

On 2 July the Dominican Foreign Minister advised the US
Enbassy that Subject, then Under Secretary in the Cuban
Interior Ministry, was engaged in activation ani leadership
in a Cuban effort to overthrow the Government of the
Dominican Republic. He had reports on impending landings, i
possibly for the Third of July, with some 200 Cubans and
Venezuelans, in three launches escorted by three ships of
the Cuban Navy. Two launches would fly American flags and
the third the Nicaraguan flag. Another anti-Trujillo source
reported the same informaticn to the Embassy three days H
earlier, :

On 6 January Subject vas hospitalized in the “Borges” Assia °
Pavilion of the "Calixto Carcfa" Hospital where he was {
operated on for the bullet wound in his right arm, Hae

In January it was reported that Subject would go to Spain
in the near future using a fictitious name and with his
beard shaved off. He was to te chief of the action group
penetrating Spain from Cuba,

A Cuban Government employee with good contacts in military
services reported on 25 April that Subject had been recalled
into active service from his pest as a doctor in the
Municipal Children's Hospital.

Continued

GUBELA Secades,
(iGaro)Rolando

Unit 8

S-B-C-R-R-T
XO FOREIGN DISSEM



8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MILITARY BACKCROUND: (Cont 'a)

In Paris in October 1963 a high-ranking official of the
Cuban Interior Ministry said Angel QUEVEDO Valdivia, an
FEU official, and Subject, a former student leader, had
resigned from the army after difficulties with Rai CASTRO,
These difficulties occurred after they had completed a
senior army training course (around July 1963) and instead
i of receiving the rank of comandante which they had held

i during the revolution they were told by Rail Castro that
they were being denoted to capitéin, Both then resigned,

CUBELA Secades,
(4zarq) Rolando

AE fed : Unit 8

8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

7

SALTER S| ia EPR a eee ee ane oe

L



mere

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FOLLOWING WITHIN THE MILITARY:

During the anti-Batista fight in the Escanbray Mountains during
1957-58 Subject was the military chief of the Revolutionary
Directorate (DR). He resigned from the army in late 1963. His
current following within the military, if any, is not a matter of
record.

.
CUBELA Secades ,
i (I&zaro)Rolando
Unit 9
8-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- stag ARE ear arom eA CTO atti rn ARNE
Lalani

[

ny



8-F-C-R-B-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OTHER PROFESSIOWAL BACKGROUND:

Subject's professional background and military background are
somewhat difficult to clearly separate. Most of his activities
during the late 1950's and early 1960's were involved with the 7
University Students Federation (Pederaciéa Estudiantil Universitaria - !
ra) and the Revolutionary Directorate (Directorio Revolucionario -

DR). -t

1959: Subject was second in command of DR forces in the Escambray
Mountains.

! In June 1959 an ex-DR leader was reported to be holding a
position én the Government of Cuba. It had been reported that
on Subject*s return from Spain, where he was military attaché
briefly, he was appointed Under Secretary in tne Ministry of the
Interlor,

In September Subject resigned us Under Secretary to become a i
: candidate for president of the FEU (see Unit 5, Regine's !
Attitude towrd Subject). He was elected on 17 October 1959, Hy
A reliable source stated that his resignation from the Under :
Secretary's post was due in part to the fact that the DR was i t
unbappy over his acceptance of the position. ‘The public
reason given for his resignation--that he desired to run for
the presidency of the FEU--afforded a good excuse.

Shortly after his election Subject was one of the principal
speakers at a mass deuonstration held to protest the incursion
of foreigh-based aircraft over Cuba, Subject said that the
university students would be organized into student brigades
and would receive military instrsction. The brigades would he
called "Brigadas Fstudiantiles Universitarias José Antonio

i Echeverria.” Subject iumediately iuplemented the establishment

i of these brigades,

In December a US resident of Cuba vho received his informtion
frou a Cuban youth leader reported that the swing of the FEU tc
the left vas confirmed by its decision at the end of Noveaber
to become a full member of the Communist-run International
Union of Students (IS), although it also retained its
association with the Coordinating Secretariat of the National
Union of Students (COSEC), the free vorld's international
student organization.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
(Iézarc)Rolando

Unit 10

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OTHER PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND: (Cont'd)

1960: In March Subject vas successful in implenenting the establich-
ment of new Disciplinary Tribunals to replace the old disciplin-
ary councils (see Unit 2, Current Political Beliefs). In April
Subject was given a vote of confidence by the executive body of
the FEU and was authorized te appoint students to serve on the
new tribunals. The FEU leadership in the 13 university
faculties continued to voice its support for Subject and the
revolutionary government of CASTRO.

In July, according to a US State Department despatch, freedom

of academic expression was erded at the University of Havana

when Subject's radical students and allied professors “took :
over" the university. The FEU directorate told the University i
Council it no longer had any authority on the campus and must preeeeet
step aside to make way for a new “Superior Governing Board.”

The council refused, On 14 July fighting broke out at the

Law School between moderates and pistol-packing representatives

wef of the FEU, Having Castro's regime behind them, the FEU group

quickly "restored order" and took over the law school, locking

classrooms and ousting professors, Subject, three other Fi
students, and four leftist professors (Hector GARCINI Guerra, a f :
Enrique JIMENEZ Lépez, Enrique HECHAVARRIA Vaillant and : i
Abelardo MORENO Bonilla) formed the Superior Council of the
University Government. On 15 July university autonomy ended
and the University of Havana became another instrument of the ;
Castro regime,

'
|
On 16 December the government-controlled El Mundo announced 1 H :
that Subject had been named president of the newly established ! ;
i Revolutionary Vigilante Comittee in the University of Havana. ; '
i ‘The US State Department called him Fidel Castro's "Sharpshooter : i
in the University of Havana."

H 1961, Subject told an intimate friend prior to his departure for a

tour of various European, Eastern and Soviet Bloc countries heal eer

7 that he knew his usefulness to the regime was over and that if ve

t he remained in Cuba he would soon be liquidated. He said i H
he had had serious arguments with Fidel Castro and Ernesto "Che™

GUEVARA de la Serna over his successor as president of the FEU. i

He wanted to name his own successor and not accept their choice :

of Communist Ricardo ALARCON, then secretary general of the FEU.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
: (1&zaro)Rolando

Unit 10

8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Cth ec NERO le inks enn wnt



OTHER

1962:

1963,

; 8-B-C-R-B-T
NO FOREIGH DISSEM

PROFESSIONAL BACKGROUND: (Cont'd)

After serving his term as FEU president and as a member of the
government board of the university the regime did not give him
any other official government appointment,

An reported that one Captain Waldo

‘possibly Walco de Jesu MARTINEZ Ordoqui), a Communist
said that Subject was in charge of a tank unit composed of
students in the University of Havana, This unit was located
in the block between Callés 23 and 25 and J end L, As early as
January 1962 a high-level Cuban Minister in exile in the
United States had reported that Subject was in charge of the
Havana University defenses as a major center of resistanze to
any anti-government attack,

Tn early March Subject was reportedly recalled into active
service from his post as a doctor in the Municipal Children's
Hospital.

Secades,
(Gézarc)Rolando

Unit 10

S-B-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

BRUGES is Baebes



8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FAMILY BACKGROUND:

Subject 's parents are Rolando CUBELA and Virginia Secades de
CUBELA; they have been divorced for some time. Subject's father is
in the tailoring business, He has recently (1961 or 1962) marries
@ girl many years his junior; Subject does not approve of this
marriage. When Subject is in Havana he generally lives with his
mother whose address as of February 1963 was given as Calle 38,
#122, Esquina (corner of) Avenida Zooldgico, Alturas de Vedado !

known a1so as Nuevo Vedado), Havana, Subject has u sister who as i
of 1963 vorked in the offices of the secretaryship in the Presidential
Palace; ler name is Caridad CUBELA Sccades,

CUBELA Secades, i
({4zaro)Rolando i

Unit 11

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



- S-B-C-R-E-T u
NO FOREIGN DISSEM : bee

Subject married Mirtha Novoa Delgado around August 1959 and was
separated or divorced from her about three menths later, He reportedly
felt obligated to marry her, presumably because she became pregnant 1
prior to the marriage, They have one child, believed to be a girl, who
was born in 1959 or 1960, The reason for their divorce is not known,
although there were persistent rumors among Subject's friends that his ,
wife had caught him in homosexual activities with another man. Some eee
said it was Ernesto "Che" GUEVARA de la Serna and others said it was ;
Rail CASTRO Ruz (probably the latter, if the story is true). :

|
i MARITAL STATUS AND CHILDREN:
i
}
|
|
|
j

Subject reportedly likes and admires his vife and is concerned
for her welfare and happiness, although he does not love her in the
husband-wife sense, according to a statement from Carlos TEPEDINO i
Gonzéiez (now in the United States in exile), a longtime friend of
Subject. During summer 1962 Subject met with Tepedino in Europe and
there stated that he could not go back to his wife even if he vanted
to because she had been too outspoken in her dislike for the Castro
H regime, He also mentioned her desire to get out of Cuba. This
comsent was based on the supposition that Subject might be working
against the Castro regime in Cuba upon his return to that country,
Tevedino expressed the belief that Subject did want to return to his
i wire, There has also been the comment that some of Subject's ‘ ;
| "guilt" feelings come from the necessity of resolving the problem
: of this separation,

i Editcrial Note: Since he still likes and admires his wife, Subject
| tay be more cautious in any anti-regime action while she, their child, :
and his nother remain in Cuba, ; H F

CUBELA Secadi
Ha : (thrarc)Retande”

Unit 12

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

LSS rae ante eres atese ta rarer peaeteTea rts tu anUE MASSE NE USE USUI EE

E oe



i
!

memes betussbet sane ARN”

eo

i! S§-E-C-R-E-T ~
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EXTRACMARITAL ACTIVITIES and/or ABERRATIONS;

Subject is either separated or divorced from his wife, He has
many times been reported to be a homosexual, but has also apparently
had various female friends,

In November 1956 Dr. Armando de CARDENAS y Aranguren, who
Gefected to the United States in August 1961, was picked up by
Batista's Military Intelligence (SIM) agents and interrogated with
regard to Subject and Juan Pedro CARBO Servia (now deceased), in
connection with the slaylng of a SIM officer, CArdenas admitted
under pressure that he was a homosexual and that Subject was his
intimte friend,

In 1959 Subject and Rail CASTRO were reportedly surprised in
the latter's home in the Camp Colombia headquarters while making
obvious homosexual advances toward each other, There.vere persistent
rumors luter that his divorce occurred because his wife caught him in
homosexual activities with another man, either Ernesto "Che" GUEVARA
de la Serra or Rail Castro, In October 1960 a report stated that
there vere current rumors that he was probably a sexual degenerate,
Two months later the statement was made. that it was common knowledge
that Subject had “sold out morally and politically" to Rail Castro,
He had shared quarters with Castro and there was much talk of homo-
sexual relationships. According to Subject's friend Carlos TEPEDINO,
if Subject does have a bent toward homosexuality, he is not solely
so-inclined, According to Tepedino he presents a good appearance in a
Masculine way when dressed up and does quite well with wouen, A
January 1962 report noted that Subject was reliably reported by mary
sources to be a pervert,

One of Subject's female friends is Loretta BERMEY, a Pan
American Airlines stewardess of French descent who is based in Miant
(as of 1962). While Subject was in Europe in 1962 he wanted her to
come over there. He appears to have know her for some time, since
his friend Tepedino reported that the stewardess had made some comment
to Subject concerning the latter's political frame of mind in 1961
which made Subject (or Tepedino) think that she was vorking for the
United States in some way.

Continued

: CUBEIA Secades,
(JézarcpRolande

Unit 13

S-E-C-R-E-T
RO FOREIGN DISSEM

ia
i
'

i
1
i



i
1
‘

: S-E-C-R-E-T -~
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EXTRA-MARITAL aCTIVZ1LES and/or ABERRATIONS:

Subject is also friendly with a Cuban dancer named Sonia
CALERO Sansana, One report from Aruy Intelligence on 9 June 1961
called her Sonia Calero de CULELA, which vould make her appear to be
Subject 's wife, but this is presumed to be erroneous. This report
added that she was 4 Cuban Intelligence egent working in Havana,
(ancther report identified her as the sister of a known G-2 agent,
Oscar CALFRO, who worked at one time in this job out of Montevideo,
Uruguay.) The report further stated that se was the mistress of
Ismani CIENFUEGOS, then Cuban Minister of the Interior, ‘wo addresses
for her were given in 19621 1) Mazo 256, Ayestaran, Havana, and 2)
Calle 30, Esquina (corner of) Avenida 27, She is a dancer who made
a trip to the USSR with an artistic group in 1961 and another trip to
Prague’ in June 1962, Another report stated that she was in the USSR
in 1960 and again in August 1962, (Thus, she my have been in Prague
in the sumer or 1962 when Subject was there.) She is a mulatto with
brown eyes, black hair (dyed red as of 1963), age 27, five feet six
duches, and weighing 130 pounds, She is called the choreographer of
the Club Parisienne of the Hotel Nacionai in Havana and is also a
zelf-adaitted Comunist, She is a miliciana and performs guard duty
at the CMQ offices and also does volunteer work. Subject is known
to have phoned her from Paris to tell her when he was returning to
Havana in mid-summer 1962, She is also known to Le one of Pidel *.
CASTRO's mistresses,

CUBELA Secades,
(dzarc) Rolando

Unit 13

5-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



# Tannl anal
S-B-C-R-E-T pe
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(e. gs, drink, food, narcotics, ete.)
Subject reportedly likes drinking, loves jokes, and is social, ;
i

amiable and friendly. During a visit to Mexico ir 1961 he reportedly
Grank heavily, He is reported by many sources to be a homosexual but
is also sald to like wouen (see Unit 13, Extra-Marital Activities and/ H
or Aberrations and Unit 23, Weaknesses), :

i
|
H
|
}
| PERSONAL HABITS:
i
{
|
i
i
|
i
1

CUBEIA, Sex
(senro)Rotento’

Voit 1s

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

bo feud
eae a el 2

'
|
i
|
|



;

earner

pst fesrartgorsan

ae a —
2 S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Subject is a medical doctor.

Subject belonged to the shell-boat crew of the Vedado Tennis
Club, city of Havana, and distinguished himself in this sport, In }

i

H

i

1

i :

i SPORTS, FOBBIES, SPECTAL SXTLis:
i

i

: 1959 or 1960 he acted as coach for the Havana University crew,

i

i
: ted
: aaa “Ly

7 i :

i | ‘
i i
' CUERLA Secades, :
: (1&zaro)Rolando i
H : Unit 15 abe
{ S-RB-C-R-E-T ;
i KO FOREIGN DISSEM i
: ;
|
TSA RTE SIR TEER SMC bra nent ni nn ae AC ES

4



S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS TH CUBA:
SOME of Subject's contacts inside Cuba:

de Ja AGUILERA Chelala, José Maria: A comandante, called in with
Subject, Felipe GUERRA Matos, Juan NUIRY y Sdnchez, Jorge
SERGUERA Riveri, and Pedro MIRET Prieto on 15 March 1962 by
Fidel CASTRO and asked to support him against the Communists
allegedly trying to take over the Governuent of Cuba,

ALARCON, Ricardo: Vice president of the FEU when Subject was its
president,

ALVAREZ-Didz, José

ASEF(F) Yara, José: Reportedly traveled to the USSR, the Soviet Bloc,
India, Japan, Italy, Spain and France with Subject in 1961.

AMELJEIRAS Delgado, Efigenio: One of the witnesses at Subject's
wedding.

ARTIME, Marcelo: Boyhood friend well trusted by Subject,

BLAHCA, Luis: In the USA in 1959; returned to Cuba.

BOTTEL, Pedro Luis: Candidate against Subject in the 26th of July
Movement 's bid for presidency of the FEU. Boitel was chosen
by the 26th of July students at the University.

BOTI Leon, Regino

CANTO, Enrique: Chargé d*Affaires in Madrid hen Subject was named
military attaché to Spain, 1959.

CHOMON (eka Chaimont)'y Mediavilla; Faure: One.of the witnesses at
Subjéct's.wedding in 1959. Now (1963) Cuban Ambassador to Moscow.

CASTRO Ruz, Fidel:

CASTRO Ruz, Rai At Subject's wedding in 1959 as a witness.

CASTELIS Valdes, Antonio: Now (1963) reportedly important official
in G-2 Security Departuent.

Continued
CUBELA Secades,
(L4zaro)Rolando
Unit 16

§-E-C-R-BE-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ggg teetemnen net nen mn a

srouasiceatea



{

1

{ NOY s.p-co-e-n
NO PORETGN DISSEM

CONTACTS IN CUBA: (Cont'd)

y
} DIAZ-ARGUELLES y Garcia, Raul Jaime: One of the DR leaders with
Subject in the Escambray,

ca
| DIAZ Aztarain, Rolando: Now Chief of the Cuban Navy (1963). i

DORTICOS Tcrrado, Osvaldo: _ President of Cuba (1963). c tore

ESCALANTE Dellunde, Cesar: Traveled to Brazil with Subject in 1960, i

7
‘ ESCALONA Martinez, Sergio: Traveled with Subject to Brazil and Mexico
i in 1960, i

FERNAND?Z y Cossio, José: In the Sierra del Escambray fighting vith |
Subject; member of the DR. :

FIGUEROA, Luis: Professor at the University of Havana in 1960,
GARCIA Riestya, Guillermo: Also accused with Subject of helping to

: assassitate Lt, Col, Antonfo BLANCO Rio of Batista's SIM,
Department of Military Intelligence, Accusation not necessarily
true.

GUERRA Matos, Felipe: See de 1a Aguilera, above.

GUTIERREZ Menoyo, Eloy Cubela: Was reported to be in contact with
him in May 1962,

: GARCINI Guerra, Hector: One of the 4 leftist professors on the i !
t Superior Governing Board of the University of Havana when the
4 students (Subject, Quevedo, Venegas and Alarcon) took
control. i
HART Davalos, Armando: Minister of Education in Cuba since 1959, io

HECHAVARRIS Vaillant, Enrique: See Garcini above. :

INCLAN y Costa, Dr. Clemente: -"Rector Magnifico" - a title rarely i
given, Rector of the University of Havana when Subject became 4
FEU President in 1959. :

JIMENEZ Lépez, Enrique: See Garcini, above.

i
|
Continued 4
CUBELA Secades
(1&zarc)Roiando” be
Unit 16 H
8-B-C-R-E-T |
HO FOREIGN DISSEM i
: [
5 qe



i
|
I
i
i
i
i
i
|
|
|

. He 8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS IN CUBA; (Cont'd)

MACHDN Deveche, Gustavo “Tavo": One of the witnesses at Subject's
wedding, In the DR with SubJect in the Escaubray, Appears

to be Communist, since reliuble source has rej

ported arguing

with Machin against Communiou, Machin's father, a doctor is

definitely anti-Communist,

MARINELLO Vidsurreta, Juan: Veteran Communist, Became Rector of the
University of Iavara in 1962, Previously long-time leader of the

Popular Socialist Party, the Communist Party of Cuba,

MARRERO y Artiles, Levit Traveled with Subject to Montevideo,
Uruguay, in 1960, Subject was then Chicf of the Department

of International Relations in the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

MIRET Prieto, Pedro

MORENO Bonitla, Abelardc: See Garcint, Jiménez, and Hechavarria,

above,

WUIRY y Sinchez, Juant Recalled to active service and appointed
Chief of the Mayari Command in Oriente Province, Attended
Communist indoctrination School in Jenuary 1962,

/
NARANJO y Morales, Jose Alberto: One of the witnesses at Subject's

wedding,

PORTELA, Dr. Alfredo: One of the witnesses at Subject's wedding,

PUENTE Blanco, cosé? Subject replaced Puerte as president of the

FEU in 1959.

PUENTE, Jorge (Panamanian): Doing Communist training for CASTRO in

Venezuela,

QUEVEDO Valdivia, Angel: Secretary general of the FEU leadership

when Subject was president of the FEU,

RAMOS; Francised: ‘Traveled to Brazil with Subject in 1960. Not
kmown whether this is the Francisco Ramos, a commercial
counselor, who was in the Dominican Republic in 1961. If se,
name may be Francisco Ramos Rojas. There is also a Major

Ramos Peguero, fnu,

Continued
iz CUBELA Secades,
(142arq)Rolando
Unit 16

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FS GERARRP OTE ncaideneh THRONE ccHN tna:



NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS TN CUBA; (Cont'd)

REBELLON (a%a REVELLON) Alorso, José: Student leader, 1960,
Juventud Comunista,

RODRIGUEZ Rodrfguez, Carlos Rafael: One of Subject's pet "dislikes";
e solid Communist,

RODRIGUEZ, Fructuoso: Widow of this man vas with Subject in Madrid
on 2 April 1959 during press conference at the Guban Eubassy
after Subject arrived to become military attaché, Relation, if
any, to Cuban Embassy or to Subject unknown,

SANCHEZ Bernal, Fernando: Subject is called a former friend of
Sancheze

SANCHEZ Perales, Dr, Isidro: A witness at Subject's wedding.

SANTIAGO Garcfa, Antonio: Served in US Army during World War IT,
IR colum leeder in Escambray,

! SERGUERA Riveri, Jorge: See de la Aguilera, first page,

‘ SOTO Figueredo, Luis: Deputy secretary in the FEU when Subject was
President,

VASQUEZ Blanco, Juan: Cuban Counsul, NYC, and reported G-2 whom
H Subject contacted after a trip to Europe in August 1960,

VENEGAS Valdespino, goad Vice president of the FEU when Subject
was its president,

!
{

Other Cubans probably known to Subject - they all attended the
Coumunist-sponsored Latin American Peace Conference in México City
5-8 March 1961;

ENTRALCO y Vallina, Prof, Elias Jose’
GUILLEN Batista, Nicolas: Cuban Communist poet,

SANTAMARIA, Haydee: This is the wife of Armando Hart Davalos,
Cuban Minister of Education under Castro.

Continued

i CUBEIA. Secades,
(dézard) Rolando

“ : : i : Unit 16

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Areata pemeancneiinnte sem satrmesanine aneipanenten stat ji needa att acorea omic SCTRRES

j
i
!



S8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CUNTACES IN CUBA: (Cont'd)
5010, Jesus
(EDFLEGIA?), Jorge (Dr.)

DE LA TORRE y Calejas, Salvador Luis: Professor, writer, natural
sciences, etc,, and at this date president of Las Villas
University,

RAVELO, Fernanio

ARAGONES y Navarro, Emilio

RODRIGUEZ Rodriguez, Carlos Rafael

CASTELLO, Humberto

CASTELLANOS Garcia, Baudillo

GONZALEZ, Augusto

CANCINE, Dr.

ALVAREZ Rios, Baldermo

FRAIQUI, Carlos

XU-CHI-LAN, Mario: Chinese-Cuban Communist and photographer;

~ reported to be working for the United States; also reported
to be working for CASTRO; latter more likely. Name
frequently" spelled Kuchilan.
- z y

PEREZ Rodriguez, Joaquin: In May 1960, Joaquin Pérez Rodriguez, who
was vice-president of the Association of Agricultural Students
of the University of Havana was attacked by Comandante Ramén
GON for having published a manifesto against Subject. Guin
hed Keen in the DR and was probably given the mission of de~
fending Subject at this ueeting. Pérez was very popular,
however, and his friends succeeded in preventing his expulsion
from the University, He was severely beaten by FEU forces
under Subject's presidency, i

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
(idzaro)Rolando

Unit 16

S-E-C-R-E-T .
‘NO FOREIGN DISSEM



poe 7 8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS IN CUBA; (Cont'd)

GUN, Ramon? See above; in the IR during the fighting against
Batista,

MURGIONDO, Sose“Luis: Cuban agent at the Cuban E:bassy in
Montevideo in June 1960, Subject met Murgiondo while he,
Subject, was on a goodwill mission there, Murgiondo's current
whereabouts are not a matter of record,

CUBELA Secades,
(f&zaro)Rolando

Unit 16

S-E-C-R-E-T
HO FOREIGN DISSEM

EN SB SA eA a



i
4

“SARE Rai ibaa

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONTACTS GUTSIDE CUBA:
Dominican Republic:

ERICKSON, Tonks Parmenio: Centact with Subject in September
1961. (Erickson is possibly a Cuban).

RAMOS Rojas, Francisco: Ramos -is possibly a Cuban (see Unit
16, Contacts in Cuba),

Mexi February 1961

de LEON Garcia, Maximo: Former member of the Coumunist Party of
Mexicoya Nuevo Leon University student who, with the others
Listed below, traveled to Mexico City to see Subject during
latter's trip there.

CADEKA Cadena, José Angel: Member of the PCM - Coumunist Party
of Mexico at Nuevo Leon University.

GONZALRZ Nufiez, Pedro: Nuevo Leon University Student, Mexico.

GARZA, Jesus Mario: President of the Alumni Association of
Preparatory School #1, University of Nuevo Leon, Mexico.

RAMOS Quintanilla, Oscar, Nuevo Leon School of Medicine, Mexico.

Uruguay: F

In May 1960, on a trip (possibly accompanying, possibly on a
good will mission along) with President DORTICOS and the Cuban
Ambassador to Montevideo (Mario GARCIA Inchaustegui), Subject met a
group of student leaders who, in the name of the Movimiento
Tatinoamericano-26, had repudiated President EISENHOWER's March 1960
Visit to Uruguay; some of the individuals listed below were members
of the Federation of Uruguayan University Students (FEUU), and way
or may not have been involved in the repudiation of Eisenhower, but
all appear to be pro-Communist or Communist:

ERPANDONEA Fern&ndez, Alfredo Mario: _ FEUU leader - active Communist.

GONZALEZ, Raquel: FEUU leader, and Communist leader among the
university students.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
_ (Tézaro) Rolando

Unit 17

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Fc ner REN CAN Ha RSI YORE:

SSUES Rani

i



§-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS OUTSIDE CUBA; (Cont'd)

BLANCO, Jusé: Active Cormunist leader,

KOVLENKO, Mihail: Commmist with an active interest in the FEU,

although not a student,

MARTINEZ, Igort Communist student in the Universit;
recently (1960) visited Cuba,

y Law School’

PASTORINO Rail: Pro-Communist interested in student and labor

matters,

Editorial Note: Subject arrived in Montevideo from a goodwill mission

in Chile, aud may have been on the same goodwill mission to meet
students and labor leaders in Uruguay, or my have arrived with
Dortices' group. There are conflicting reports on his arrival, but

be was there at this meeting, it is believed.

Th: early June 1960, Subject attended a meeting in Montevideo at
which Blanco (see above), Javier LAROCDA (a frequent traveler to

Moscow), and a Cuban José Luis MURGIONDE (agent of the Cuban Eubassy

in Montevideo) vere present, Subject and Levi MARRERO y Artiles,

chief of the Department of International Organizations in the Ministry

of Foreign Relations of Cuba, issued invitations fcr the Latin
Averican Youth Congress and initiated a campaign to invite students
to participate in the military course organized for Latin American
students, Subject said that Soviet and Chinese instructors would

teach guerrilla warfare methods.

Brazii:

GUANAIS, Oliveiros: President of the Union of Brazilian students,
Traveled with Subject on trip thru Brazil in Deceuber 1960,

Chil

Chilean Students who supposedly signed a joint declaration

with Cuban students ‘in July 1960.

CAVADA, Octavio: Chilean Cristian Democratic leader.

FERNANDEZ, Patricio: President of the Federation of Chilean Students,

S8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

egaticesegeeirme enanencnancem ait ae

Continued

CUBELA Secades,

(card Rolando
Unit 17

Seopa



i
i
fl

4h
|
i
|
H
i

E-B-SRE-P
NO FOREIGH DISSEM

CONTACTS OUTSIDE CUBA: (Cont'a) ;

MUNITA, Fernando: Catholic University of Santiago, Chile. (On 5 July
1960, El Diario Ilustrado, Chilean daily stated that Munita and
Alejandro FOXY denied cigning this manifesto.)

UPSIC, Daslav (2): President of.the Technical University of Santiago.
student Organization.

PAVEZ, Horecio: President of the Technical University of Valparaiso
student organization.

SANHVEZA, Eernarlino: President of Catholic University student organi+ +
zation.

MARTINEZ, Osvaldo: University of Valparaiso.

Nicaragua:

OBREGON Aguirre, Genaro: Nicaraguan pro-Communist who planned to see
Subject in April 1960 vnile on a trip to Havana. Obregon reportedly
was to ask Subject for aid for Nicaraguan student revolutionary
activities.

SALINAS, Maximo: Visited Cuba, and returned to Nicaragua with gifts from
Subject to one Joaqufn SOLIS, leader of a Nicaraguan student
movement who receives money and orders from Cormunist leaders in
other countries. May-June 1961.

SOLIS, Joaquin: See note on Salinas, just above.

Ecuador, Bolivia, Venezuela (representatives from these countries at a
Student's Congress, sponsored "by COSEC, and held in Klosters,
Switzerland in 1960)... :

Ecuador:

ORDONEZ Pulley, David

Bolivia:
ZAMORA, Oscar: Leader of the Red Bloc in Bolivia. Attended the IUS
Congress in Peking in 1959. Member of the Partido Obrero Boliviano.
Elected by the Bolivian University Students to attend COSEC congress.
Continued

CUBEIA Secades,
(Lézaro) Rolando
Unit 17

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

5 SRE neroea etcetera Sst MRE LOTSARRM Pn Mica Sin cURL patie ah

‘
|
i

t
1
|
t

ee



wry

nematic

rd S-E-C-R-E-T
NO POREIGN DISSEM

CONTACTS OUTSIDE CUBA:

Venezuela:

ALVAREZ Ibarra, Pedro Francisco: TUS (Conmunist-sponsored sector
of the World Federation of Democratic Youth, which is also
Communist) leader in Venezuela who attended this COSEC
meeting,

United States:

CARDENAS y Aranguren, Armando de: Cuban pathologist in the United
States; reportedly Subject's "boy fricnd."

CUBELA Secades ,
. (t4zarc)Rolanae

Unit 17

= S-E-C-R-E-T
‘NO FOREIGN DISSEM

i
'

ee



i

po

~ “~N
i) S-E-C-R-E-T :
KO FOREIGN DISSEM

‘TRAVEL:

1957; After the failure of the Revolutionury Directorate (DR) attack . ;
agninst the Presidential Palace on 13 Marcl, many leaders of the
DR sought asylum in the United States, including Subject. He
nade various trips from Miami to New York City to buy ares and
war mterial for an expedition to Cubs being prepared by the DR.
in New York he lived at the home of Isidro HERNANDEZ, a professor
at the Medical School of the University of Havana,

1959; In March Subject went to Spain as militury attaché; he remained
in this post only about two months,

1960: According to a January report Subject had recently returned
from visiting Communist Caina,

1960: Subject was in Montevideo, Uruguay, temporarily on a goodwill
ssion and was active among pro-Comnunist student and labor

groups while there, There are conflicting reports on his
arrival date so he may or may not have been a member of the
group surrounding Cuban President Osvaldo DORTICOS Torrado
when he visited Uruguay on 30 May. Another report indicated
that Subject did not arrive in Uruguay until 3 June, coming in
unexpectedly from Chile, as a guest of the pro-Comminist
Federation of Uruguayan Students (FEU), He stayed four days,
held a press conference at FEUU headquarters, spoke at the
University of Montevideo, and privately net leaders of the
FEUU and the Coumunist-dominated Uruguayan labor confederation.
Tkere was no advance publicity about his arrival; even the
FEUU appeared surprised, One of his probable topics of
discussion with labor and student leaders was the forthconing
latin American Youth Congrese schedute’ for Havana in July 1040,

1960° Subject was to leave on 1h August to take part in the Ninth
International Students* Conference in Switzerland. Upon his
return from this conference he spent several days in New York
City where he was in contact with José VASQUEZ Blanco,
consular attache“and reported Cuban G-2 agent. He was
apparently with the Cuban delegation to the United Nations for
at least part of his stay in the United States,

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
(14zaro)Rolando

Unit 18

8-E-C-R-B-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Fie AB 760 si ecsinsineyntenn ce smenneemen nmin sotmanioeiarnaissinn wei eincnemppoeiciouenee!

t
i
j



8-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TRAVEL: (Cont'd)

1960; With Sergio ESCALONA Martirez, head ‘of the newly formed Cuban
Institute for Friendship with Peoples, Subject left for Brazil
to represent Pidel CASTRO at graduation exercises for law
students from the University of Goainia and possibly also at
S&o Paulo University. After five days in Brazil they were to
go to Mexico City. They traveled on diplomatic passports,
Subject was scheduled to attend ceremonies in Mexico at the
University of Mexico but missed his plane connections from
Brazil and instead on 23 December represented Castro az
Sponsor of the graduation class of the National Agricultural
School at Chapingo and conferred with faculty members of the

: Science and Politics Department at that school.

i 1960! Subject transited Panun en route from Curacao to Mexico on
7 : 22 December, He had been in Curagao en route from Port of
Spain.

: Subject was one of the 23 Cuban delegates to the Latin
1 American Conference on National Sovereignty, Economic
t Independence and Peace,beld in Mexico City,

i 1961; In August he left on @ tour of the USSR, Soviet Bloc countries,
India, Japan, Italy, Spain and France. He vas invited as a
guest of student organs in these countries. He was to attend

Hy @ cultural festival in Paris and proceed to the Bloc countries.
j On 2h August he spoke at a press conference in Prague. On 27
August he spoke at the headquarters of the International Union
of Students on the liquidation of illiteracy and on the social
status of students in Cuba. On 24 September he and an uniden-
Hfied delegate of the FEU traveled to China. Subject returned
from bis trip in October 1961, according to the Cuban newspaper

Hoy.

. 1962: In August Subject vas reportedly a “special delegate" to the
Helsinki World Youth Festival by Fidel Castro's permission.
The story which Subject told Castro was that he was fatigued and
iil and needed a rest. Thus he got a chance to travel and to
meet his friend Carlos TEPADINO, who is now in exile in the
United States.. Subject stayed at the Franklin Hotel in Paris
with Tepedino and then moved to the Casa Cuba. He planned to

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
(szaro)Rolando
Unit 18

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



S-E-C-R-E-T
RO FOREIGN DISSEM
TRAVEL:
spend about one week in France, including a trip to the Riviera,
and then go to Prague, Subject's wife allegedly told friends he
@id not intend to return from Helsinzi; however, he did return,

1963 As of late 196% Subject was stuiying at the alliance
Frangaice in Paris, France. He returned to Cuba in December,

CUBELA Secades,
(L&zar0)Rolando

Unit 18

§S-E-C-R-E-T
HO FOREIGN DISSEM

i
t
i
i
f
i
i
j
i

i
i



S-E-C-R-Z-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS;

In 1955 Subject, along vith José Antonio ECHEVERRIA Bianchi,
Fructuoso RODRIGUEZ, Juan Pedro CARBO Servia, Eduardo GARCIA
Lavandero and Faure CHOMON y Mediavilla, founded the Revolutionary
Directorate (Directoric Revoluctonario - DR). In 1958 he headed the
"José Antonio Echeverrfa” colum of the DR in the Escambray Mountains
and later he was appointed military chief of the DR. In 1959 he was
recognized as one of the DR's top leaders,

On 17 October 1959, Subject was elected president of the
University Students Federation (Federacicn Estudiantil Universitaria -
FEU). He served for something under.a year as FEU president. The.
FEU was affiliated with both the International Union of Students, part
of the Coumunist-controlled World Federation of Democratic Youth,
and with the Coordinating Secretariat of the Naticnal Union of
Students (COSEC), the free-world international students" organization.
He has attended various meetings of both of these international groups,
particularly of the former,

CUBKLA Secades,
(1ézarc) Rolando

Unit 19

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



po

a 8-~E~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS:
(Prejudices, disabilities, racial considerations, etc,)

In September 1959 Subject reportedly told intimates that he was
so disgusted: with the CASTRO regime that if he, Subject, did not get
out of Cuba soon he would kill Castro himself,

In February 1961 there was an unconfirmed report that Subject
had made overtures to various Enbascies for asylum, In August he sald
he knew his usefulness to the regime was over and if he rewained in
Cuba he would soon be liquidated, He said he wes too involved with
the actions of the Government of Cuba to become a defector but hoped
to remain in France at the completion of his tour of the Soviet Bloc
and other countries to take postgraduate medical work, In February
1962 it was reported that even though he had been forced to resign as
president of the University Students Federation (FEU) in favor of a
Communist he seemed to have retained his position as a student leader
and carried more weight by far than his successor, Ricardo ALARCON,

He vas consulted not only by student leaders but by university students
ana governtent officials,

In March 1962 he and other arty commanders were called in by
Fidel Castro for support against a Communist takeover of the gover.-
ment, They agreed to back Castro but according to source they were
really thought to be planning to assassinate Castro and his brother,
Rail, and Ernesto "Che" GUEVARA de la Serna and take over the
government themselves, (See Unit 4, Attitude toward the Regime.)

Later in 1962 Subject reportedly told his friend Carlos
TEFEDINO, now an exile in the United States, that he could not
return to his vife if he wanted to because of her outspokenness
against the regime and her desire to leave Cuba, This was based
on the supposition that he might be working against the Castro
regime in Cuba upon his return,

CUBELA Secades,
(Uézarc)Rolando

Unit 20

8-B-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM .

esa SSE ere nM Sa St nt aE EN ca St



B-E-C-ReEoT oa
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

{
i

MOTIVATION:

Subject is obviously a contradictory und controversial figure,
He is a rommtic idealint, but as a practical politician he is naive,
He appears to require a ysychological impetus, preferably in the form
of a strong and trusted person who can keep him sufficiently
psychologically uotivated, At present, he appears determined to curry .
out his plans, He taken pride in his reputation for bravery, but is
personally sensitive regarding the acts which have built up that
reputation, e.g., his scnuitivity to the use of the word assassin in
numerous references to lim made by Cubans and others,

‘An evaluation of Subject should be based on his personality

his reputation es a malcrindo (a brash, spoiled, outspoken persons,
and his aversion to bow tu the will of higher authorities, including
the CASTROS and Ernesto "che" GUEVARA, Under the surface, hovever,
he appears to be a sensitive man showing many indications of honesty,
patriotism, decency, and unselfishness, One minor example is the
incident of his engagewnt to his present wife, vhich was announced
in 1959. He felt obligatiud to marry her, and did so in August of that
year, possibly because shu became pregnant. Altaough separated from
her for soue time, he hay more than once expressed his liking and
admiration for her, and his concern for her welfare and happiness. 4 i
She is outspokenly anti-royime and wants to leave Cuba, Although it

f may seem normal that he murry her under the circumstances, there are i

i many Cubans who would not have done so. : i t

While Subject is mercurial in temperament, it has been proven j :

i that anything he undertukeo he performs with vigor and dedication, 1
‘and usually accomplishes his mission. An example of this fact is i i.

i his participation in the uscassination in 1956 of Lieutenant Colonel |

: Antonio BLANCO Rico, of Luticta's Military Intelligence (SIM), He

; defended that act at a press conference in Madrid (where he had been :

' sent as Castro's military uttach¢) on 2 April 1959 ty describing : i

Batista as a dictator, assassin, and despoiler of the riches of Cuba : i
who had left the revolutionary government the legacy of a Cuban :

national debt of one billion dollars.

‘There is no indieation that Subject has demanded anything
uaterial for himself, either from the Castro regime or from the US :
Governuent, with the possible exception of technical assistance from i
the latter, Nor did he demand a high position when Castro took over, :
even though his fighting, leadership and courage in the Escaubray i
contributed to the revolutionary victory and entitled him to sone

|
ij
i
i
i

Continued jon ‘

CUBELA Secades,
(Zazaro)Rolando

Unit 21

8-E-C-R-E-T
RO FOREIGN DISSEM

Nedstat te ie ached en Nap Aeratcencnreen

eo



|
|

Necenzciaao inane Neatigign it

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MOTIVATION:

major consideration. Rather, Subject's qualities of modesty, naivete
and honesty and his assets as a soldier were used by Fidel CASTRO and
"Che" GUEVARA as tools to persuade him to run for the presidency of the
FEU in order to’ win control over the anti-revolutionary, . apolitical
and Ronan Catholic groups predominant, at the University of Havana.
(Subjects own study of medicine at that institution had made him well
avare of the conditions existing there and he keenly felt the need for
revolutionary reforus.)

It is, of course, difficult to reconcile the brutality of some
of Subject's actions as FEU president, particularly since he
Indicated his dissatisfaction with the Castro regime within three
months cf its implementation, He treated the entire student and
faculty body as enentes of the revolution, and it seened apparent that
he was, after all, simply utilized as a Castro tool,

With regard to his political naivete, it appzars that Subject,
like wany others, believed what he heard in the inner circles, in
which he was an important Directorio Revolucionario (DR) leader,

He fought in the Escambray as he had fought for José FICUERES Ferrer,
President of Costa Rica when that country was invaded in 1955. An
idealist, he thought certain individuals were actually revolutionary
leaders who aimed to help the poor, Subject was disillusioned much
sooner than some, to the extent that, some three months after the
Castros assumed power, he told an intimate friend that he was so
disgusted with Castro that if he (Subject) did not.get out of the
country soon, he would kill Castro, Castro, however, knowing that

the leaders of the DR were in essence either Communist or pro-Communist,
had alrendy decided to separate them, and he began by sending Subject
to Madrid as Cuban military attache, The reasons behind Subject’s
acceptance of the post ure unclear, unless he simply wished to leave
Cuba in order to avoid killing Castro, In any case, he told a good
friend that he only planned to stay in Spain about a month and then
return to couplete his medical studies in Havana. As the report
indicated, Subject's plan to return was inconsistent with his reperted
dissatisfaction with Castro, The newspaper Diario El Nacional reported
that Subject's departure was due to health, rather than political
reasons, (However, it may be that Subject was flattered by the appoint-
ment, a good one for a wan of his age.) Subject returned shortly,
nevertheless, and was appointed Deputy Secretary of the Interior,
remiining in that post until he resigned to present his candidacy for
the presidency of the FEU. The election took place on 17 October 1959s

CUBELA Secades,
@atzaro)Rolando

Unit 21

5S-B-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ag ei

PW ve AiR GA Lata semen



: oy ~
? 8-E.C-R-E-T z
| NO FOREIGN DISSEM
| STRENGTHS:
{ Subject takes personal pride in bis reputation for bravery.
| He has a reputation for being a maleriado (brash, spoiled, outspoken)
i ‘ and for not bowing to the will of higher authorities. Under this

cruct, however, he is a sensitive mn showing mny indications of H
honesty, patriotism and decency.

: . Pat. gf
He may at this time be anti-Communist and anti-Castro but it H
4s difficult to draw any conclusion from the conflicting material :
available concerning his views.

i
i

CUBELA Secades,
- (fazaro)Rolando

Unit 22

8-E-C-R-E-T
RO FOREIGN DISSEM



S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

WEAKNESSES :

Subject is personally censitive with regard to the acts wich '
have built up his reputation, He is particularly sensitive to the
use of the word assassin in numerous references to him by Cubans and

others, t .

Subject has often been reported to be a pervert, a sexual ae
degenerate, 6rd a howosexusl, Specific instances of alleged homo- H
sexual activities are recorded in Unit 13, Extra-Narital Activities '
and/or Aberrations.

In 1959 a Guatemalan youth leader who spoke to Subject at some
length after the latter's return from Communist China reportedly said
that Subject was not too intelligent and was primarily a-soldier in
attitude and outlook, .

‘In November 1960 an unidentified source called Subject’ one of
many “suall time" student leaders who made their iiving by extortion
t and blackmatl, The principal victins were homosexuals who were
: prominent in social, professional and business positions. This
é report called him an individual without principles or scruples, creedy,
i ambitious, and one who would betray the regime without qualms should !
it suit his own interests. Among his victims allegedly were Miguel i
Angel QUEVEDO y Lastra, foruer editor cf the weekly magazine Bohenia H d
: {now in exile in Venezula and formerly working for the United States
editing Bohemia Libre) and one Dr, CARDENAS, chief surgeon of the ! ‘
university hospital. However, Quevedo is and was openly known to te i
@ homosexual and Dr, Cardenas appears to be Dr. Armando de Cardenas
Aranguren, a pathologist who admitted homosexual relations with i
Subject during an interrogation by Batista‘'s military intelligence
after the killing of Lt. Col. Antonic BLANCO Rico. re is no dow :
hovever, that Cardenas stili considered himself a friend to Subject :
and as late as 1961 was trying to help get Subject out of Cuba; this
i does not seem to be a likely action for someone who had been black-
: mailed for years by Subject.

According to one source Subject contemplated suicide in 1961.
He vas said to completely distrust security in any Miami contact
with Cubans and the Cuban comunity.

Continued

CUBELA Secades,
(1staro)Rolendo

Unit 23

S-E-C-R-E-T fl
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

seeieckaonseinennrmennnenmctniegraanrennnetattenranet tite ate GENO Eek Shab okt ta aE aA en mn



ernest aster een, BMY

a S-B-C-R-E-T .
HO FOREIGN DISSEM

WRAKWESSES: (rent 'a)

While in Mexico in 1961 Subject reportedly was drinking
heavily, The reasons for dismissing him as president of the FEU
in 1960 were reportedly drink and women.

‘In January 1962 an eminent physician who arrived from Cuba as
an exile told a US agency that Subject had probably changed his
mind about defecting because he was afraid that he would be incarcerated
in an inmigration detention camp.

CUBELA Secades,
(t4zare) Rolando

Unit 23

S-E-C-R-E-T
WO FOREIGN DISSEM

ed {Rhu iaA SSM BL Renn s ON BNL cae er me me



|
i
i
|
|
|
|
|
i

|
i
|
|

among

meeps Soe

S-E-C-R-B-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM :

FIELD ESTIMATEs

‘The user should use this space for overall comments or
estimates having first perused the various Units as received from
Headquarters and added pertinent comment or special knowledge under
the appropriate Unit.

CUBELA Secades,
(Q4zarq Rolando

Unit 2h

S-E-C-R-E-T
RO FOREIGN DISSEM

A EL Bi A Be chan enc EERE EAI DESC AOI

|
|

i
a

|
i”
|
\

|



>

CUBELA Secades
(UézarojRolando : {red
Unit 25 4
a PERLE Sip RM A

SERENE GE AAS

SeE~C-ReZoT
ISCEM

NO FOREIGN D-
S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OPERATIONAL LEADS:

ened
