104-10312-10384

oes SECRET

28 OCT jorg

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination:
Gordon Dwane Novel
(201 -834822)

Reference: _ CI/R&A Memorandum of 31 May 1967,
subject as above

SUMMARY

At a meeting on 23 October 1968 the president of an answering
service, Miss provided CIA representatives with
information about a client, Gordon Novel, who has received much
publicity in the course of the Garrison investigation. Novel told
Meet at persons associated with Garrison and with Ramparts
Magazine planned an article in which Novel would be linked to

the answering service and the service, b to CIA.
Central Cover Staff has used the firm's services for fifteen years.

Novel told Miss} not to worry because he had let Garrison
and company know that| would sue if such a story
were printed, and the story had been killed. i | provided

additional information about Novel, who in the past has falsely implied
and even claimed association with CIA.

DETAILS
1, At 1030 hours on 23 October 1968 Mrs. of
Central Cover Staff (CCS) and the undersigned met by prearrangement
with Miss founder and president of a Washington
answering service ca! ed Mis
offices are Ww
2. Miss has been a contact of CCS for fifteen years.

Records chécks run shortly before the meeting disclosed no derogatory
information.



13-00000

re

3. The meeting had been requested because | had
told Mrs jthat Gordon Novel was one of her clients and that
she had information about Novel which was of possible interest to
this Agency. Novel is a salesman of audio detection gear who has
been prominently involved in the Garrison investigation and has

sought for obscure reasons to create the false impression that he is
employed by or associated with CIA.

4. Throughout the meeting a completely
cooperative. She volunteered assista: ‘ormation, and she

responded most helpfully to all requests.

5. Novel became a client of( on 15 March
1968. His account remains active. His number at the answering
service is 296-6662. The sheet on which he listed the basic information
required by___ i contains the following information:

a. Gordon Novel is president of International Dynamics
Corporation, "electronic manufacturer and investment holdings:
military and industrial counter-intrusion equipment", 518 1/2
G St. S.E., Washington D.C., 20003. Novel listed the home
office of International Dynamics Corporation, as 787 1/2
Harrison Ave., New Orleans, La., 486-5477.

b. His instructions to the service were as follows:

(1) Nature of and reason for calls were to be
ascertained.

(2) No information was to be given to anyone
calling for Ramparts or Playboy.

(3) Calls or inquiries from news media were to
be considered as emergency matters and relayed to
him immediately by collect call or telegram to (614)
267-4633. (Comment: A number in Columbus, Ohio.
See sub-paragraph e, below.)

c. He listed his clients as the U.S. government, foreign
governments, and industrial security representatives.

2

SEGHET


13-00000

SECRET

d. He listed anticipated callers as the following:

(1) Mr. Willard Robertson. (Comment:
Robertson is a Volkswagen distributor for the
New Orleans area and a member of Truth and
Consequences Inc., a private association of
Garrison supporters who have donated funds to
Garrison's office. An FBI report of 10 October
1967 stated that Robertson wanted another
businessman to file charges of theft or fraud
against Novel in connection with a $2,700 diamond
ring in order to get Novel in jail and "under the
floor". )

(2)-Mr. Elmer Gertz. (Comment: No prior
record in Garrison case. Traces to be run.)

(3) Mr. Phillip Gabriel. (Comment: As above.)

(4) Mr. Walter Sheridan. (Comment: Has
appeared in prior reports on this subject. He is
an NBC investigator who was associated earlier
with the deceased Senator Robert Kennedy. Sheridan
was a principal source of the information used in
NBC's anti-Garrison TV show of 19 June 1967, after
which Garrison charged Sheridan with bribery.)

e. Novel listed the following as an emergency contact:
Mrs. Abby Novel, 226 E. Oakland St., Columbus, Ohio.
(614) 267-4633. (Comment: Mica| —_ppelievea that
Abby Novel is Subject's mother. ie New Orleans
States-Item of 22 February 1968, however, referred to

Subject's wife as Abby, nee Mulligan, a former Playboy
bunny.)

f, As references in Washington Novel listed a firm of
lawyers: Miller, McCarthy, Evans, and Cassidy at
1701 K St. He noted that he banks at Riggs National,
Dupont Circle.

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

6. Novel told Mise jtat he had been associated in
some way with Senator Robert Kennedy. (Comment: The reference
may have been to Walter Sheridan, who served as an investigator
for Robert Kennedy when the latter was Attorney General.)

7. Novel asked Misa |whether she could make
arrangements for party or conference calls to pass from the
caller through the rented number in Washington to Novel's actual
location and then to record the calls in Washington. She said no.

8. Novel listed his own current address as 566 E. Main St.,
Suite A, Columbus, Ohio.

9. In mid-September 1968 Novel mentioned to Miss,
that District Attorney Garrison is associated with a fnu Burnham
{no prior record in this context, although Richard V. Burnes is an
assistant DA for Garrison), a fnu Roper (no prior record in this
context), and William Turner (a staff writer for Ramparts who has
been closely assocjated with Garrison and his investigation). Novel
also told Mis that he has a penetration of Garrison's
office. (Comment: He has made this claim earlier.) Through the
penetration he learned that he was to appear prominently ina

Ramparts article which would list him as a client o!
‘me would also list (memati a cover or

front for CIA operations dealing with internal (i.e., domestic)

affairs. Novel told Miine( jt to be concerned because he

had sent word back to Garrison that if such an article appeared,

would sue. He later learned that the idea of

publishing such an article had been dropped. He told this story to
ith the air of one who had done her a favor. Miss
the impression, however, that Novel himself did not
e allegation about her firm and CIA.

10. Novel told Miss| that he is working on a real estate
deal involving a planned resort area in Michigan. It is noted that
two of the telephone calls listed below were from a fnu Cork or Corke
in the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

ll. The following are the telephone calls listed 7 a
8 placed to Novel's number:

4

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

a. On 30 August 1968 Mr. fnu Gabriel, Sr., called
from New Orleans, 522-5075. No further information.
(Presumably identical with the Phillip Gabriel of
paragraph d (3) above.)

b. 4 September 1968. As above.

c. 4 September 1968, from Amy Helmuth, Reno,
Nevada, 358-0331. No further information.

d. ? September 1968. Office of Mr. Cork, Bureau
of Indian Affairs, 343-5704. No additional information.

e. 5 September 1968. Caller, J.J. Harris, said that
there had been no word from London. No more information.
(Comment: One Jones Harris is an assistant of Richard H.
Popkin, a journalist who has made repeated trips to
New Orleans, who is strongly pro-Garrison, and who wrote
a book called The Second Oswald.)

f. 5 September 1968. Call from Mr. Gabriel of
New Orleans.

g- 5 September 1968. Call from Mrs. fnu Hellman
of Reno, Nevada, asking Mr. Novel to call Mrs. Francis.

h. 5 September 1968. Call from Mrs. fnu Francis,
Reno, 358-0331.

i. 6 September 1968. Call from Mr. Gabriel, New Orleans.

j. 10 September 1968. Call from Mrs. Francis, Reno,
Nevada. :

k. 10 September 1968. To Amy Helmuth, Reno,
358-0331. She was to call Jo Capurro.

1, 11 September 1968. Call from Mr. Gabriel,
New Orleans, 522-5075.

m. 19 September 1968. Re a meeting with Mr. Cork,
Washington, 343-5704,

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

n. 26 September 1968. Call from Mr. Wallace,
American Aircraft, Washington, NA 8-1462.

o. As above.

p- 4 October 1968. Call from Mr. Williams,
Hunington National Bank, Columbus, Ohio, 469-7500.

q. 8 October 1968. As above.

xr. 10 October 1968. Call from Amy Hellman, Reno,
358-0331. (Comment: Helman and Helmuth seem to be
identical. )

s. 12 October 1968, Call from Mr. Wallace, Spy
Shop, Washington, NA 8-1462. (Comment: See sub-
paragraph n, above.) :

t. 14 October 1968. Mr. Logan. No further information.
(Comment: An FBI report of 11 May 1967 says that a
source of the Bureau's New Orleans office was in contact
with a landlady who told Andrew Sciambria, an investigator
for Garrison, that William Wayne Dalzell had been placed
in contact with a CIA agent in New Orleans, a man named
Logan, by a former New Orleans attorney named Grady
Durham. Ramparts, January 1968, p. 53, says that a CIA
man named Logan was closely linked to a group called
"The Friends of Democratic Cuba".)

u. 15 October 1968. Mr. Wallace of NA 8-1462.

v. 15 October 1968. Mr. Raft. 882-5292.

w. 15 October 1968. Mr. Wallace.

x. 17 October 1968. Amy Hellman, Reno, 358-0331.
y. 22 October 1968. Mr. Deiton, Kansas City,

221-5862.

6

SELPET


13-00000

 SEtper

12. miss [eat that she believed that she could obtain
additional inform m about Novel by writing to a friend of hers,
Mr. Aaron M. Kohn, who is the managing director of the
Metropolitan Crime Commission in New Orleans. She asked whether
there was any objection to her doing so. She was told that there
was no objection as long as her inquiry was couched within the
frame of reference of her own business and had nothing to do with
CIA. She then penned a note to Mr. Kohn, inquiring about Novel
as a customer of her service and read it aloud. She was assured
that there was no objection. She added that Mr. Kohn had done fine
jobs of cleaning up first Denver, then New Orleans. ees
Kohn is a firm antagonist of Garrison.) Miss icautioned
that she may not get a reply for several weeks. She will give CIA
any information about Novel that Kohn may provide.

13. Novel's motives remain obscure. As was reported earlier,
there is a clear possibility that he remained an ally of Garrison
after their seeming antagonism developed. If so, his efforts to link
himself publicly with CIA could be part of Garrison's attack upon
the Agency. This theory would also explain Novel's relationship to a
Garrison crony like Willard Robertson. Another possibility is that
the feud is genuine. (Novel has made very strong accusations against
Garrison in major radio broadcasts; these include charges of
occasional homosexuality and possible direct involvement in the
alleged murder of David Ferrie.) Mis formed a clear
impression that Novel's dislike of Garrison is genuine. If so, his
persistent attempts to link himself to CIA may be part of a campaign
to create for International Dynamics Corporation an aura of prestige

as a result of supposed ties to the federal government. He listed the
U.S. government a one of his clients. His
relationship to Willard Robertson might then be explained by his

repeated assertion that he has a penetration in Garrison's entourage.

Donovan E. 21a

DC/CI/R&A
Distribution:
Orig - DDP
1 - c/Cccs

SEGHET


