id 4ee-0257

St Get OS irabhaen

ROUTING AND KECORD SHEET

ao

'
a
Aating,
Pare *
: Sa Gham mend @ 5
foope aeawenrtar ASV |
pb LT wile fer ends
pote Fhe wee

‘3 info!

a TS

SECRET (C]) CONFIDENTIAL



SEER

MEMORAKDEM FOR: Casef, WE/s

suasict 3 Resident of Rowe, Italy, 1m Correspondence
with George De BOMRENSCEILDT (201-725439)

3. In late Hovesber 1964 a lettwr vas received ia
e/e the American imbesey ta Port-au-Prince, Halts,
Bddreesed to George be BOMRENSCHILDT. The letter bore
the getura seérese; J.¥. Hrandel, Stellare B-Vigns
Clare, Rows, sad vas poetasst.r¢ Rous, Btabsa.

B. A check with your Counter-cepionsge section
vevoaled that one Joespa BAAMDEL 16 lis t Prasza 8.
dactat, Rows, the saav sia the above
908 BO 6: tonal taturasts
your office om etther Josspa oy J.
@f RID/lades faticd to reveal say
; gbeve nance However, taforastion eveliable Gu one
{ Barcus Josepa BRANDEL (203-231083) who may be idectifiable
. With the Subject, Thie perso a 13 way 1904 et
| Rettorden, Nethorlandss and was once & director of the Dutch
}

@lectronics firm Puilips wv, aad 6 Steutensat-colonol ta
the Dutch Aray, Duriag the second world war, he directed
the Dutch p
or Dutch f
File is dated 1958 and reflects that at that tine he wae
Baving in Hevilly-eur-Getne, France, and was divorced

x fyen a United Etates citizen (name unknown),

%. George De MOMRENSCHILDT te a naturalized United

dy biving Haitt, where be:

Pepor 3 @ geolegica! aurvey for the Govern-

pont of Maiti. Nis mail directed to the. United States
Babassy in Port-au-Prince, De NOMRKWECRILDT ia known to
have had connections with two foretga intelligence services

. and was an acquaintance of Lee Harvey OSWALD, accused
assassin of President Johan ¥. KENNEDY. Accor‘ ingly, be is
ef extrene interest to the Feders) Bureau of Investigation.

ad waa either. in Britioh

4. ‘The information concerning the letter from.J. M.

: BRAMDEL to George De MOHREXSCHILDT is being included in a
. Geel ts the Federal Burcoay of Investigation, with, a request
ae to whether it desires this Agency: +> query the appropriate.”
Italian authorities.

rm


Seal ~

&. %m the evest any taforuation comes to your
ettestioa regarding GAANDEL, this effice would ipprectate
‘

being advised. 26
Mh fe

w. Uaittes
c/eusa

