# 104-10400-10018

## Page 1

104-10400-10018

STAMIT ORIGINAL AND A COPIES TO ISAS

REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION

TO RETAIN OR DESTROY QUESTIONABLE RECORDS

DES

by

FAB

=w:. lassignes

TO : :

Chief, Information Systems Analysis Staff, DDA

THRU:

Component Records Management Officer

Directorate Records

Management Officer

Records Administration Branch,

ISAS/DDA

Office of General Counsel

FROM:

OFFICE SESIGNATION OF ORIGINATORI

12::a.

16474283

* 5:

2. DATE FREPAFES

THE RECORDS 'DENTIFIED BELOW ARE SCHEDULES FOR INMEDIATE DESTFUÓTION. HOWEVER, THEY MAY EE SUBJECT TO ACTUAL OR

IMPENDING LEGA: OR INVESTIGATIVE REGUIREMENTE.

ALTHORIZATION IS FEQUESTED EITHER TO RETAIN THE RECOTOS OR TO

DESTROY THEM AS SCHEDULED. THE RECOROS ARE EEING HE:D PENDINI RECEIPT CE AUTHURIZATION. IF FURTHER RETENTION IS

REQUIRED, REVISED DISPOSITION INSTRUSTIONS MES BE ERO VIDEE TO RECORDS ADMINISTRATION BRANCE ISAS..

3. OFFICE

¡DERTIFICATION OF RECORDS

SIMEIULENO

E. ITEM NUMBER

B.. INCLUSIVE DATES

7. VOLUME (cu. ff.,

PROVIDE DETAILED DESCRIETIO

ANE LISTING CE SECCRES

WHICH REECHES ARE

QUESTIGAELE.

EASIS

FOR

АТТАСН

DETERVINING

THAT

*: =

221 :

2:76.920 177

-'..

140 AND PICA, MARHEL TO INTICATE

REICROS ARE QUESTIONAELE

OC164t

i.."

oi

ET:

4.4837

-"-i:

Citie

29Br56.R??11

tha:

• ;

=..=

ЛE0+

1o2:

roundrel

Keste:

".8"

a-::e1:

00 the s021

.:*

LEADED NAME ANI ODISTURE DE GUSTEDIAN EE RECORDS

I CONTIANES ON

EXTENSICA

3.14

DATE

PEATURE OF CONDONENT RECOROS MANAGEMENT

OFFICER

EXTENSION

1 May 197:

DATE

3035

EXTENSION

"THE TAME SED SIGHATURE OF DIRECTORATE RECORDS MANAGEMENT

7787:

rag 197ª

DATE,

3/200 89

AUTHORIZATION TO RETAIN OR DESTROY RECORDS:

82: TYPED

ATATIVE

EXTENSION

DATE

88,2

MORENATURE DE SHI

TROR SYS

C425

CATE

APPROVED

Mart

& LL PROVIDE JUSTIFICATIÓN FOR

Peterser

ALSO PROVIDE PROPOSED NEW DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS.

LINDICATE UNDER SECTION E

ABOVE WHICH RECROS ARE TO

BE RETAINED.

THOSE NOT INDICATED FOR RETENTION ARE AUTHOR.

IZED FOR MEDIATE DESTRUCTION.

wile on the Kchbudy Assassinatur

inter.

naired ic bel bale and tue to incicadd on the c

i1*:

"uras scoos commities.

CONTINUED ON SEPARATE PAGE

FORM 141c

А-77

1885-381

2 WOE.0441

31V

¡NEGIABLE!

---

