# 104-10074-10349

## Page 1

104-10074-10349

MEMORANDUM FOR:

"NEs

Via

Datavery,

.OGG

over of

DADDO/PICG

Subject

03,80

Classification of EX 3600

2Ahia

caRe your request for "a couple sentences of factual

data as to why this

11. 7

documentais classified"s here they are:

Expost facto, since I was not associated

with Operation MHCHAOS duringrits existence, I can only:

offer the following reasonable surmise. As we now know,

duringnits. tenure MiCHAos wastone of the most sensitive

operations conducted under DDP degis, repeatedly sanctioned

(in writing) by the pci.

tive that it

was

The activity was deemed so sensi.

handling: channelse

controlled by/through extremely restricted

In MY ieN,

think at follows logically, at least

that any document produced by: MHCHAOS, whether

a formatior informal one, would have been classified at at

least SECRET

classi

€2. Does the information in this document warrant

fication todaye

JaT think it does, and I betieve the

classification of CON IDENTIAL is proper.

reading a

Date

079 100 9851

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

/Py.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• MEMORANDUM FOR:

Pgs. 2 through 12 carefully, stals readily apparent that sa

some of the information on some of these pages was seemingl

acquired-from/through Sensitive sources/methods. Also r

these pages contain frequent mention of FBI information

Con

cerning many of the Peace Movement groups/organizations

kite

Cited; FBI reports received by MHCHAOS were invariably

classified; for the most part CONFIDENTIAL.

S 3. What should be the proper FOIA exemption for EX

3600; in my view, (b)(3)35

#C/SCB/IP

x7 Apra 77

Date

3075 101

---

