R PASPIALONT PROCESSING ACTION

DISPATCH | =, —

Chief, European Division NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INFO. JONLY QUALIFIED DESK.
JCAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM fo-_1
a Chief of Station, The Hague 2  MICROFIUM

SuBsECT RYBAT/SYMPATHIZER Se
of Press Clipnpi

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

References: A. DIRECTOR 224537
B, THE HAGUE 20798
Cc. THE HAGUE 20797

1. Attached for European Division are English language
translations of the press clippings concerning Willem 0 LTMANS
mentioned in the references together with copies of the orginal
Dutch language press articles. i

2. Also attached is compilation of OLTMANS* contacts
with the Soviets which was prepared by SYMPATHIZER. The latter
requests this material be treated as very sensitive as it is
based almost exclusively upon technical coverage of SYWER.

uct 0 fc.

Kenneth D. PIKELNY

Attachments
As stated above herewith

— Distribution: ae
Orig. & 2 - Chic iseUe wfatts h/w

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

IATT 23 COPY

fe REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE
ONHA-38577 1 February 1972

‘CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER
ve : ’

SECRET 201-155221



Subject: W.L.OLTMANS (10 June 1925)

On 29 December 1971 OLTNANG invited the Cultural Attache of the
Russian Embassy KUZNETSOV for an evening in his house. The invit-
ation was also for some other members of the Russian Representation.
At the same time OLTMANS was to invite some six important journalists
KUZNETSOV should ask OPALEV and IZWEKOV to come along with him.

The date agreed’ on originally was 11 January 1972,°It then was
changed twice. When 14 January also wasn't suitable, it was agreed
on 7 January to make the date for 18 January 1972 at 20.00 hrs.

from the invitation it could oniy be infered that OLIMANS wanted

to offer his guests an opportunity for an informal discussion.

About the background of the present good relations of OLTMANS with
the Soviet Representation in The Netherlands, section, B is able to
report the following:

ody, (This information comes from vulnerable source -

1. In September 1970 OLTMANS says with some surprise that he sudden-
ly received an invitation to a party at the Russian Embassy.
He thinks it crazy; he doesn't belong to that club at all. But
his thinking is along the lines of those people.

2. In October 1970 OLTMANS appears to be interested in an interview
with KOSYGIN's son-in-law GVISHIANI who allegedly was connected
with American-Russian discussiens about forming a mutual "think-
ing factory".

Presumably this had some connection with the so called Club of

Rome in which GVISHIANI plays a role.

Remark: GVISHIANI is chairman of the state committee for science
and technology and is suspected to be a highly placed
Intelligence Officer.

3. Begining March 1970 OLTMANS contacted the Press Attache OPALEV
from the Russian Embassy; OLTMANS would still like to have an
interview with GVISHIANI,

It would be a filmed interview in which OLTMANS would cooperate
with the Nos. (TV).

In this period OPALEV's cooperation does not yet seem very
extensive.

4, Thanks to the cooperation of Aurelio PECCEL, chairman of the
Club of Rome, OLTMANS at the end of April 1971 succeeded in get-
ting in contact with GVISHIANI in Paris.
Also present at this discussion was the former member of the Russi
Embassy FEDEROVSKY, now chief of protocol of the state committee
for science and technology.


13-00000

10.

2.

At this’ opportunity GVISHIANI Easiest drivited aici fora
visit to Moscow.

FEDEROVSKY was instructed to inform the Russian Embassy in The
Hague about it.

GVISHIANI who ‘at the. same time is chairman of the ‘commission for
environment administration in the Soviet Union, asked OLTMANS to
make a film at. the same time about the environmerit administration
in the Soviet Union to support the Sr iihctaeat cenvironment
conference _ be held this year.

Begining: May it becomes clear that since OLTMANS. iscussion with
GVISHIANI,. OPALEV's attitude towards OLTMANS has ‘Breatly a
OPALEV is now all willingness.

iu May OLTMANS makes his film with GVISHIANI and recéives an inv-
itation to come to the Soviet Union forthe second half of August
and the whole of September, where he covld brea all ae
institutes.

GVISHIANI..told OLTMANS that he had complete trust in him.

In June 1971 OLTMANS again contacted GVISHTANT, this: time in
Vienna, where there was a meeting of the Club of, Rome.

Begining. October 1971 OLTMANS again saw GVISHIANI in Paris, where,
among other things he spoke to. him about his visit to The Netherlan
in the second week of October.
OLTMANS did’ his begt to oblige GVISHIANI while visiting The Neth-
erlands by. trying to establish business relations for him (for
instance with Philips). i

receveel :
In November 1971 oLpMans’, from the Russian state television an
offer for a five-year. contract to make exclusive films in the
Soviet Union. a Fee eee = :
This offer was. made to. OLTM/ during h: sit to the Soviet
Union. It is conecretization of the earlier offer by GVISHIANI to
film a number of scientific institutes in the Soviet. Union.
On 17 November OLTMANS ailegediy discussed this business further
with GVISHIANI in Geneva.

On 23 January 1972 OLTMANS will’ make another visit to Moscow to
discuss making the above mentioned films without the participation
of the NOS. At this opportunity OLTMANS will leave behind a memo
about LUNS in connection with OLTMANS' present agitation against
the Secretary-General of NATO.

OLTMANS wants to prevent sigale getting any future opportunity to
visit Moscow. —

Referring to the meeting in OLTMANS' hotise on 18 January 1972 it
can be reported that on 17 January 1972 OLTMANS stated that he
is again seeking reaction from the Russians who will visit him on
18 January; their reaction in connection with OLTMANS' request

to the general prosecutor of the High Council to bring action
against LUNS.


3.

In the morning on:18 January OLTMANS also stated that KUZNETSOV
-said that: OLTMANS! action against  LUNS will not succeed because
the "bosses".-stand behind LUNS.

It is not.clear. when KUZNETSOV said “‘ehas to OLTMANS, but it is
known that. OLTMANS recently attended .a meeting’ where hal number
of Russians ‘were. present.

(Possibly ‘the meeting of the Association "Nederland-USSR" with
the delegation “from pUese Nedert ene: on 14 January 1972.)

On-19_ January 1972 ait was reported that HOFLAND.- (one: of the guest:
-invited’ to ‘the evening in OLTMANS' house) calléd’ before his
arrival.and asked whether he could bring a’ friend:

Afterwards this friend appeared.to be Peter ZONNEVELD from De

Telegraaf: : :
OLTMANS said that: at the press conference which he (OLTMANS )

: will-give:on 20° January 1972 several guests, Milo.ANSTADT, Rob %

+. KOPULT and Jaap JANSEN will defend OLTMANS against. the attack on
. him in’ “De Telegraat" of this morning. i:

19 January 1972.
