# 104-10310-10250

## Page 1

1104-10310-10250

DO/P 2.0442

- SA-5

wH/C 67-54

4 FER 1967

MENOHARDON FOR:

REFERENCE!

Deputy Director for Plans

MASFIR Promecution, Mtant, Florida

Office of General Connel Memorsdan 67- 0181

dated & Februnry 1967

l' This verne is for your infertie.

In roman to purcraph 2 of reference, Wil

Diviston ts ndo n rvier of our Mant Station and

Lendqurtore files to determine thore permos Mated Lo

paraph 1 and ell permons listed In the fal report

Ittsched to reference with when there has been any

Agency arclitton.

Of the person listed in paragiph & of reference

the following have lll sons sarociation with the Agency:

Davld Cburn

B: Yather Blazo Madrigal

Jullo Conne Formilla

Linted belor are the person oited te the MI

ropert attached to referenco who have bion asociated vith

the seeney.

Of thore, only two, Jome Hodrigues and Artaro

get ur r cry eployed. lore of the retteder

have any orrent reintionship.

Members of the 2506 Brigade

ure rhon ne mol in pratheres siter their unes:

Havana StatIon 1040)

Bolnudo Ansferrer Hojas (Informant

Belm lio For llo Rodrigues Perer

(ember of 1506 Brigide)

Jond Ammel Neces, JI. (menher of

2506 Frigie

d.

•Amniro donnes Infente Cember of

#800 Briende)

Adolfo Bartolone Jimmes Aquilea

Arte Artas (member of 1506 Brigado)

Altrodo Batm

b.

Bathel Torres (menber of 3506 Brigado)

SECRET

GROBF

Excladed from Calamal:

deungrading sud

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Pablo Morejon-Flgueron (member of

2506

Brigade)

J.

of 2506 Brtende)

Franciaco Tarona Varona-soto

Jorn Bedriguer

Late Alberto Olivera (member of

1508 Britnde)

Carlos lats Soto Barges (monber

of 2506-Brfende)

It in boltored that the trinl of lenterter or

any o his colleges could conse Asuncy Interests

one or all of the 10110ulng sectors;

Unfavorable publisity concerning

Agenoy operations agalast toe Caban target,

notably writine infiltration operations

based in mouthern Florld.

b.

The exposure of current Agency

(prImarIly JUVAVE) agents, operatioani

factlitles, covers and operations, notably

thore in the meltino inflitration 110ld.

The creation of a ollute which

In the loas ru conle lend to continuing

ange to Agony intereste and walch would

runder the erecution of operationa against

Cubs and certals other targets, empoetally

the curibbean countrtes, more difffcult and

more costly (by virtue of the necenuity of

ersating new or nre complet cover nechartes).

- by

6.

The sppearance of certain individals at the trini

could lead to the revelation of Inforuntion concernins = vide

varloty of operatiount utters-uning the tern "perational"

In 1te broadert senso. Of the persomel lleted le the 00C

moranon of 2 Februy 108T (OCC 67-0161) David Ober

we eployed by the Agency le agout status. Catera vas s

key figure in the MITATIA operation, at one time an taportant

JhAVE operattom.

Cabern's brother in currently euployed by

JwAVa; for some time it has been planned to terainate in

-It an appropriate timo. Cabere in in a position of being

ablo to reverl considerable inforration concerning certain

"?!.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

operational techaiques and Incilitles employed by WAVE

In the past, as vell as the identity of a number of former

agents of the raVI Station. Although, by extrapolation

and by enbroidering on inforuation and rumor cireulatiue

An the Cuban entle community Caben probably could present

• ploture of shAvE activity which might appeas wetting

to the layans, 1t rooms unllkely that he hrs access to any

afe ificant anount of informtion concerning sensitive

current actlvitles.

hile to the knowledgesble persos,

withis the Agency or within the loderal commutty in illual,

Cabora's intertion 1a 11kely to be unimpressive, there

seems to ho little doubt that to could-a ho has done en

veneral public. It le Impomble to prediet wothor Cober

he would choone to concentrate his eritiolen against other

federal arenotes.

A mber of the other persons listed te the

reference nine aro 1l i ponition to make allegations

concernine various agency activities, including JINAVE

portions In the mritise Infiltration and propaganda

11ulds, and Arney operations agatest the Initias turent.

It Is Imposnible to sinto bor mes sccurate laforntion

concerning these tapies is posed by the prop, or to

predict the slant which might be taken by then in parmenting

then startes. In the opinton of alAve, ou the banta of

the infertos salluble to the Station, none of there

Indulals possess s signitenat mount of mensitive

Intorntion comering current or Important fast ctivities.

However, as ln the ense of Choema, the claton mele by these

individals re Agency activition night appear impressive to

the smoral rublte, especially 18 spleed with tidbite of

ncenrate Increten.

8.

Indivials in the Ill report to the leoney, notably JAVE.

two of there niviant are crently aployed by alAVE.

should certin of the other indlulate to mmoned to testily.

they could prosont a curtala mount of intortion concerning

pust practioes, persomel and freilities uned by aravs.

Probably the prentent denger to the Aguney 110s 1n

the possibility that the cirole of tontimony night be expanded

by the defore throngh the subpoenniar of permone who nee not

on the lint or mentioned la the FBI report but who ure nom

to the listed personnel as boing currently employed by JaravE

or as barint been employed in the rocent past. Given the

logal precodonts established in other caree, 1t appears

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SLORET

Ilkely that these ourrent employees (agents) of JIVAVI

would have to provide true and detatled anor in response

to questioning in court. Such testimony could cuse ufor

damago to the current operations, pernonsel and factlities

at the alAVE Station. Although 1t appeare that a number

of faellites which have not been exposed to seante (e-I.,

the principal cover unit, JOCKAN) would not be compromined

through the testimony of current agents, there te no doubt

tant the dancer to MAVE sctivittes, notably but not

melntvely to multime Intiltration operations, vould be

novere. Pithly more dingies in the long run would be

the mincins of questions concerning the "ight" of the

Agency to engige in "1llogal" notivitien fron U.". sail.

Conceivably the defense would present the picture of an

Offselal Ul. Corement ngoncy, the Department of Jantico,

prosecuting hapions Culmn and Haitian entles (legroes) for

condeting rettuity of "the sane typo" an that conducted

by the Agency with the blessing of the US. Goverment.

An Imaginative defenso counsel might even go no far no to

nocuse the U.s. Cunton. Serviee and the Agency of conspiring

to "stop the competition" by the emiles uith the notivitien

conducted by the fency.

"NaVE belleven that there te no quention that the

trind of the tasterrer group vould bring to the murface in

mouther Florles and elsewhere in the US. - the Intent

curfosity and in none cases animosity cancerning Agency

operations agitnet Cube Iron bines in the Us. Mile the

Moride publie in sonal 1s highly sruputhetic tourds the

guncy with respot to its setivities galast the castro

realme, there are a sull mmber of tighty vocal persons the

would one the trin remations as the baste for s renered

attuck agnint the "incintblo government" operating lo Marti.

I Inden that it would take very little publiotty to lond

to the steins of the Jochu couplen in the sucerner to

the "notorioun lentth Technleal Interprises, Ins.". The esTe

wnieh ans been siven to the establishent und the comolidation

of the sue cover is not 1kely to sunil silest a concerted

private parties.

Toe, the faet that sociAl te locnted In

a "re medalstored by the univeraty of Mial could lead

to charges of Agenoy "corption of scudonto inntitution."

The fact that the liveralty of Hant lenderally voris,

1t has la the past, cosperato clonely vith JIMAVI and the

Agency would not orne the publiotty, and concalvanly could

lond to enough pressure on the Untversity that it Indead mould

be forced to remine lts rolattonhip to the U.3. Coverment

concerning the South Canpus area, or 1te relationsilo to

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SANAVE MOCKAH.

In sunmary it is nost inltkely that any

future good would remlt fron a trial of lanferrer and/or

my of his associates, and it in highly probable that there

would be created & olluate which would mike JWAVE

operations of all types. more difticult to carry out in

This is not to any that

#wAVE would have to so out of business.

this ves not the

eume in the "Tealth" flap, nor is lt Ilkoly to be the case

w1th Mnsferrer.

However,

there appears to be little doubt

that the threshold of sensitivity to Agency setivitles on

the part of the pemered public and of there persona sho,

Iron wintever motives, question the adverbility of the

Agenoy: "operatin" within the U.S. would be ratiod.

1l. The question of using Cesar Diosdado so a

prosecution witness presents additional problems. Dioudado

has been retained as the Customs officer at Key Went at

the remest of the Agency.

The Agency relaburses Astons

for Doadado 's salary.

secause o1 his encyclopedic bawledge

ot Cuha and the lorida Keys tres and because of bin long

involvement in "operational activitles" by the Agency, and

by Aal on occasiou, Diondado is considered by uny ostle

ad none offleals as being "e Company (Aguncy) nat."

questioned under onth Diondado presumably wonld have to

rovel detaila of his asocintion with the gency, 1ct.91

then on bent or the Agency, and conceirably dents ot

Jhave operation. In certain instaces, notably regarding

crrent operations and several highly senttive past

operations, the revolation of detaliod information, especially

concerning agent identities and operational techniques, could

be quite dangles.

Possibly Diondado could be carefully

brlefed concerning the unture of lls testimony so in to avoid

perjury wile not alving sensitive date.

lowever, his nature

Le such that 1 renonbly clever defense counsel could provoke

him into either indiscrotions or contradictions which would

prement hin, the 0.1. Outom and the Agency in an unfavorable

The fact thrt Diondado has been repeatedly communded

by Custons and elon for his effleient and humane handling

of refugens and escapees rould count for little in a court

roon where the nottons of the laterrer finsco rould he

ramalat hich.

12. A turther problen could arise fron the fact that

Dosdado played & lending role in the investigation of the

Hasferrer affali, including previous abortive attempts by

the insferrer and Initian estles to launch operations fro

Florida, and the fact that Diosdado personally (Acting 1l

his offiotal capacity as Custors Agent resident at Key West)

Ind the rald sgilnt the house at which the exiles vere

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

crested ent the are contlocate. The cereme want ver

mense Diosdado of having soted not only for the U.S

Cuntons but alne on boinlf of the Agency.

11. In edition to the forgoing points 1t moule be

noted thut hinterloally the sinflarity of this operation

and the "Bly al Pigs" could reopen th mole mention and

Offer re done of the prem ohn getter.

Involved ut storer mi potentil defeat so of the

I unferrer is tricht to triul, the pabile

sympathy, which will probably bo retlected in the Jury's

verdiet would undoubtedly rent with the defendant not the

promecution. A latre perontage of the people umoubtedly

We stere's stivitin a storte to mid to tenta

Kentsphere of a shorimble binch dictator with the furt r

Intention of min Enltta territory s « bare to roove

another dietator nolther of when are friendly to the la.

(signed) Jadob D. Esterline

Jacob D. Sterline

ActAnE CIEt

wenter fenlaphere Elviston

Attachent

2 Feb 61 (61-0181)

DDP/WEL/ COC

new

3 Febrary 1967

Distribution

, 1 - Addressee

1 = ADEP

1 - DDP Beg

OGC

C/WED

WE Reg

-

WE/COG

WH/COG/ESEC

• Missferrer 201

SECRET

---

