# 104-10308-10138

## Page 1

104-10308-10738

15207

DISPATCH

CLASSIN E

SECR

PROCESSING

PRO.

POSED

ACTION

10

MARKED FOR INDEXING

PRIORIT!

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INFO.

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

ABSTRACT

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

MICROFILM

JMZIP/ KUDESK/Operationa

Transmittal of Bio Daïa and Photographs

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Forwarded per DIR 30508, under separate cover attach-

ment, is biographic data as noted in WAVE 0799, paragraph 1

ori Aldo Pedro MARGOLLES Y Duenas and Emilio ARAGONES y Navarro.

Tio photographs of subjects

are also forwarded.

ACCO: 1.

PLISHED

END OF DISPATCH

Attachments: USC

1. Bio Data

2. Photographs

Distribution:

13- WiD w/atts

1 and 2 USC

63 COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Descostigel : 03

774

CEASSIFICATION

k:T

Pil.

DATE TYPED

23 Jan 62

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA 3134

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

DATE DISPATCHED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

hmm

MIAMI

POLICE

66500

---

## Page 3

13-00000

3 solder?

nel, 137

Unoffioial to. Mr:

Alfred Cox.

The the Individuals naned below are knov to linvo generatod a plat to

assassinate The President of the ünited States.

Available information

from confidential sources Indicates this plot has been conceived and warn

on the possibility that this plot nay be executed. At this writing these

two Individuals are belloved to be in Havana, Cuba.

111. 1

Aldo Pedro largolles y Duenas. Described as white, male, Cuban; born in

Cienfuogos, Cuba, on 12-4-32.

Ho is 5-10 in hoight; 170 pounds; brown eyes;

brown nir; pock mrked face; fBI lo. 59572D.

He is Chief of the rational involutionary Polloe in Cuba, also the kayor

of the oity of Cienfuegos. He travels freely throughout South America spreading

the Castro doctrine.

He has free access to the country estate of lazaro

Cardenas, former president of lexico, solewhere in the province of Yucatan 1n

the eastern promontory of saxico.

He is always in contact with the Communist

varty high commard. This man, with the assistince of three other unknown groups,

is believed to be the person to execute this plot, if one 1s attempted.

Enillo Aragonos y lavarro; also known as Emilio Aragones, allas Enilito.

Described as white, nale; DOB 1929; about 5-33 about 200 pounds; prematurely

bald - no further description.

Aragones is belicved to be the General Coordimtor of the National 26th of July

Movement and the lational Chief of Castro's Militia. He 1s one of Castro's

right hand ten and accompanios Castro in all piblie appearances. Aragones is

the coordinator of this alloged plot. Both Araones and irgolles are known

to have fanatical. tendoncies.

This service is interested in knowing the current whereabouts of these two

individuals at all times.

lour cooperation in this respect, and in other

matters of mutual Interest, is earnestly solicited.

Available photographo of these two individuals are attached.

---

