# 104-10300-10298

## Page 1

104-10300-10298

• SLUKEI

i2. During the time COHEN was a CIA employee (1949-1963), he

was of concera to the Security Office, due priacipally to the activitios

and proclivities of his wife, Rita C.

Heller COHEN, #MS-3185, the for-

mer wife of Irving ROTH, IMS-2001 R. COHEN was the subject of ar

Employment Review Board case in 1956; and in 1956 was disqualified

as a member of the Junior Career Development Prograna. It was then

decided to put him on a job in FBIS in which he would not be exposed to

highly sensitive material. At the time of his resignation, he was an

I. O. Contact, GS-14, in the Chicago Office of the DDI/OO Contact

Division.

13. In January 1905, the DCS requested approval to contact

COHEN on an ad hoc basis to participate in the briefing and debriefing

of his employer, Senator PERCY, who planned an estensive tour of the

Far East. In June 1967, Ms. George CARY, Logislative Counsel,

requested a check on COHEN stating that there may be occasion to brlef

him from time to time. According to Mr. CARY, COHEN would be

briefed generally on the build up in Cuba but would not be expoaid to

operational information of exotic material.

it. COHEN is currently of interest to this Office in connection

with an approach which

sas made to him by the

05

Lo Washington. An FBI report of 16 Auguat 1967

noted the approach-but 5, 0S

Tailed to indicate under what circumstances COHEN furnished the

information regarding his contacts

with

J(s, 05.

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to Septerber

articles in Llfe magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erat-

while chauffeur and courier of Sam GIANCANA. The second of these

articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,

of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Luisiana

area.

FET FNts $15198

CLASCIFED BY 8668 520/mde

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X OL

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Repros:: :

ittachroents: articles

MDSicer

Angin

Duvital

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

2/3/98

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

3/gD

---

