# 104-10179-10140

## Page 1

104-10179-10140

10:

Bal:

= De

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce|

Mr. Charles Mechen

MEMORANDUM

From:

Date:

05

Aug. 28, 1962.

Regarding our conve

reatina of August 2811, me enciose herevil.

copy of the Manifiesto: that me showed to you.

mipm/ mje

enclo

180

---

## Page 2

-59,84

Tie l0 & conbination u 05 rather, a confusion at Marciat

poobondos appliod to nameslotent lith century capitalien u1th Papal

myclicala (Chrlotsan Domocracy), Peronia "allosophy" (Justiactaliano),

and lohruly "Feird Pooltion,''

It to wach too 2008, wach too detalled, and such too confastng

to Do asalmilated by any but the very highly sophisticated Cuban Intelleotaal.

And ho rould haro to bi oqually confurado. or mid-tacarod, to do ablo to

follon the line.

The nutsor ignores that Marx's theorios al elaos oppression and

the produetion are no longer admittod by mat authoritetive econondate today.

the author's froquent references to "captaliano sunocionar10" 1e & "black

boast" that die not eriot, even tri Cube.

I a mtaball, the cardo 1o too long and verbose to be offoctito,

too inoonslatent in the rarious pointo at Men 1t trles to combine to bo

carinaing, and too detailed to bo tuken periounly so a guido in the practical

talness of goverumt and sooial rolationshipo.

---

## Page 3

Teutro spy receine

prom Donald Revies, Am.

for. Power, whes got it

from Seraphin MENOCAL

for it rous" somerse in

Шані..

destroyed. e

This capy

---

