# 104-10106-10300

## Page 1

104-10106-10300

IDENTIFICATION:

BACKGROUND

:

:1290

APPROVAL

- 15904

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Yurily Ivanovich NOSENKO

001511/ph

NOSENKO i Cer

NOSENKO, Yurily Ivanovich, a soviet

KGB officer who defected in 1964 and

was subsequently involuntarily con-

fined in the U.S. by the Agency for

a period of approximately three

years.

NOSENKO first contacted Agency per-

sonnel in Switzerland in June 1962

and subsequently defected in January

1964. NOSENKO was brought to the U.s.

and after a period of relative freedom

he was involuntarily confined in

April 1964.

From April 1964 to

August 1965, he was confined at an

Agency controlled site in Clinton,

Maryland.

From August 1965 to

October 1967. NOSENKO was confined

at|

Virginia. In October

1967, he was returned to the Washington

area, given increasing amounts of

freedom until he was given total free-

dom in April 1969.

NOSENKO became a

U.S. citizen in April 1974. NOSENKO

was employed by the Agency as a

consultant in March 1969 and continues

under contract to date. His present

(1) The legal basis to confine NOSENKO

against his will was discussed by

Agency General Counsel, Mr. Lawrence

Houston, advised the Director of Security

by memorandum that such confinement was

proper (Tab 2) .

(2) There are a series of lettérs from

the DCI, DCI and others to various

agencies, including the Department of

Justice

and the White House,

covering

the period 1964 to 1969, evidencing

awareness of these agencies of the

NOSENKO affair (Tab 3) .

(3) The conditions of NOSENKO's confine-

ment were established by the Office of

Security (Tabs 4 & 5).

---

## Page 2

• -

RESULTS

TERMINATION

COMMENTS

:

-

By memorandum dated 2 October 1968,

the Director of Security forwarded

two reports to the DDCI summarizing

the results of the NOSENKO case to

that date. The reports are voluminous.

One was prepared by the Office of

Security and the other by the FBI.

Both reports conclude that NOSENKO

was a bona fide defector.

A draft

memorandum attached to this file,

dated 21 October 1968 and prepared

by the cl staff,

raises question

regarding NOSENKO's bona fides

and challenges the above two reports.

NOSENKO continues under contract to

the Agency: He is brought to Washington,

periodically to consult on matters

germane to his background and experience.

Various reports are available in the

files of the Office of Security which

detail financial aspects of this case.

No final accounting has been made since

the project continues.

(1) While the Office of Security files

do document the rationale for the original

confinement of NOSENKO, they do not

document the rationale

for his continued

confinement over so long a period of time.

A memorandum dated 5 August 1969 states

that various congressional staff officers

were briefed on NOSENKO and states that

concern for his safety, as well as con-

cern regarding his bona fides, prompted

the prolonged confinement. (See Tab 6)

(2) Office of Security files document

a period in 1969 during which a mail

cover was placed on NOSENKO.

(3) During the above period, NOSENKO

was allowed

a pleasure trip to Florida.

During this trip, Agency personnel, with

apparent Headquarters approval hibtained

the services of prostitutes.

apparently occurred on at least two

occasions.

2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

..

iC

FILES

:

Office

of Security files on NOSENKO

are maintained in the following

locations:

OS/SSD (Contact - Mr. Charles Phalen)

OS/SAG (Contact - Mr. Bruce Solie)

3

---

## Page 4

-BENNET

EVER PILY

Z. April 1964

MEMORANDUN FOR RECORD

SUSJECT:

Discussion with Deputy Attorney

General on Nosenko Case ..

:Ar helas, Hi. Houston and HI. Murphy net with

the Deputy Attorney General and neubors of his staff to

discuss subject case.. Present fros Hr. Katzenbach's-

staff vera Messrs. Foley, Yeagloy and Rois..

2. Mr. Holas explained the Nosenko case briefly

and indicated that shortly ve would be faced with what

we at least considered to be two problens on which we

would like the advice of the Department of Justice.

First, ve would sooon feel compelled to begin hostile

interrogation of Mosenko in order to arrivo at the truch

with respect to hig aission for the KGB and ve wondered

what the

legal position would be in circunstances in

which we datained Nosenko against his will for this pui-

pose.. second,' ve would have to be ready after doterin

1ng: that we could obtain no additional information from

Nosenko to deport hin. Me had thought of taking his to

Gornany and transferring his to Soviat custody in Borlin

where this has been done a nuber of times in the past

There was sone discussion of whether deportation

to another country might be a consideration. Mr. Helms

explained to hould probably face publicity problens in

deporting to a third country of the kind we would

counter if ho vero free in the U. S. Nr. lle las noted

thore were many iteas of information which we and the

FBI roalize

are of no significance because of the file

holdingsive have but which an unscrupulous newspaper sau

could use to creato nischief.

This aspect was then dropped

and it was the consensus that

Berlin was probably the best

place.

The question of the basis for detention was again

and related by MI. Folay to the condizions under

which Nosenko is in this country. He is hore as an "ox

Clusion and

parole case" which neans he has not been

admitzed and has been parolod to the Agency shich is

responsiblo for his while ho is in this country. This

BEANET

DIES ONLY

---

## Page 5

d.i.

BLOTT

EVES C"V.

=.2•.0..

parolo can be interpreted to mean parole to a spacific

locale which would provide sone justification for our

dotaining hia for questioning

It was then pointed out,

however, that if he said he wished to leave the country

to saturn to the Soviet Union, tochnically ve would not

bo able to datain his further.. In this event, we vould

bo faced with the need to deport his quickly and quiotly

and for this purpose the innigration varrant of arrest.

and deportation.

was probably the best instrument.

this and it. Foley will in turn contact Mi. Houston.

Mr. Houston will in turn discuss the problem with CIA

Office of Security officials to got the background-of

their liaison with the INS on these matters.

and un departad anid sone jovial banter with respect to

in Berlin.

David E. Murphy

Chief, SR Division

---

## Page 6

14-00000

---

## Page 7

r

C/5B

OGC 64-0903

3 April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR.

Director of Security

SUBJECT:

Parole Status of Defectors

1. On 2 April 1964 we had a discussion with the Department

of Justice or the status of aliens whose inspection by I&NS is deferred

upon arrival at our request and who are then paroled to this Agency.

It was the position of the Department of Justice that we were responsible

for taking any action necessary to carry out the terms of the parole.

2. As you know, a basic parole agreement was executed by the

Attorney General and the DCI on 10 February 1955. After setting up

conditions for authorizing parole in any one case, the agreement states:

"After parole of such aliens, the Central Intelligence Agençy will assume

responsibility for care, supervision and control of a kind and degree it

believes consistent with the internal security needs of the United States

during continuance of their parole status." This means that the

responsible Agency officials must take the minimum action necessary

. to protect the internal security needs of the United States. The word

"minimum" is not necessarily a limitation. It merely means that good

judgment must be used as to what kind and degree of action is necessary.

3. The agreement further provides that upon completion of the

parolee's intelligence or operational purposes in the United States or if

internal security reasons so require, the alien will be removed from

this country through arrangements made by the Agency and, in such

case, the Agency will inform the Service in advance of each proposed

departyrs.

pora

1 declasstio

Quitehre

V di

by AAL on

19 Sept 78

LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON

General Counsel

Cc: DD/P

C/SR

---

## Page 8

14-00000

intense

---

## Page 9

Tanuary 1975

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. Information that NOSENKO had defected and was in the United

States in February 1964 was known to appropriate agencies and articles

had appeared in the public media.

2. NOSENKO was in the United States under an I&NS parole as

the responsibility of CIA. The FBI was fully advised of the presence of

NOSENKO in the United States and interviewed NOSENKO on several

occasions in March 1964. The United States Intelligence Board was

also formally advised on 12 February 1964 concerning the defection of

NOSENKO. On 14 February 1964, NOSENKO was interviewed by Soviet

in the presence of I&NS and State Department officials

officials/and NOSENKO reaffirmed his previous request for asylum in

•the United States.

---

## Page 10

SEGRET

:8 CCT 1963

ER 69-5003/1

MI. Raysond IM Farrell

Cormissioner of Immigration

and Naturalization

Department of Justice

Washington. DeCi

Dear Mr. Farrell:

5 SUBJECT: Yurly Ivanovich NOSENKO

also.

Pursuast to the authority granted under Section 7 of

the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended,

I approve and racommend jor your approval the entrance

of sabject into the United States for permanent residence

ace eat he nest of themation eugene

mission.: In accordance with previons corespondence in

Section 7 cases,: it is understood that you will present this

matter to the Attorney. General for bis approval.

Siace his defection in February 1964, the subject bas

provided valuable information to this Agency and be will:

contime to be of value in the future..

Sabject has been investigated abroad and hare over af

period of five years and bas submitted to a tecinical inter

rogation. The question of bona fides is a contiming one and

should any information be developed definitely disproving his i

bona fides, it shall be mada available to your Service and the

Attorney Genaral.

6300 1

declassiltallea

---

## Page 11

-SECRET

Isure are enclosed fores flas and backgrouse data, i

Is duplicasa

concerning lee subject

* Fichard Hainsa

• 37936492

BINÁTORE:

Is/ H. J. Osborn:

Director of suchity

8 October 1969

-Bat*

J.- DEA

want fuss tone set, te

33 DiT.

EI Stall

03 Files

SERRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

salugsetn puutäcek

Yuriy Ivanovick NOSENXO (Aka: Yuri NOSSENKO)

30 October 1927

Male

Soviet

Divorced

Nicolayer, Uxraise, USSR

Br0w

Biue/ Gray Sit. 1l inches

Caucasian

---

## Page 13

MIGRAPHIC SATE

Tarl NOTHE

1916 - Barded it Bosses

(Hoos 3n2S02t: 1949 - parated a

1754-45957e84

3 2 1955: Martial Loan I-l

19575

55

MILLARIE

HARONAIRA

PREET AS FAST

INTIONI:

154 LOUNG TREATE NOLENO, T02

13 Taly 1955 Moden Dota Uros l use

1942-1919 - Aresdod cious Usua Laval

1965-1935

Larch 1952 3806a 1935- Stras Hara BEl

Manch 1933 bary 1954 - 011c bi Ken

(a Creates for Shit Senarityl

Ideatens la 395% Mary This la seboat ano

Shang Ba servie

Bertes

1947-1954 -36252592Sena9smo, Ises

1RS÷

-C6357491732

1357-1955 - Mirader Faerise FarT, DS58

62009 1

Ecided Pis juician

SECRET

---

## Page 14

SEGRET.

SP-1687

1 8 JUL 16

MI. Raymond I Farrel

Convalssioner of immigration

and NaturaliZation

Departnent of Justice!

Washington

Attention:

E. Bartoa

: Dear Sir:

SUBJECT: Yury Ivasovich NOSSENKO

SERENE

Reference is made to previous correspondence

in this cased

"Saujeet continues to it uf operational interest

to this Agency. Therefore, it is requested subject's

parole to this Agency be extended for an additional.

period of six. (6) months beyond the expiration date of

his stay of 16 August 1969.

Jour cooperation in this rafter is very much ap-

preciated.

OS/AAS/LW:es

Sincerely,

STCHED :

Victor R. White

Deputy Director of Security

(lavestigations and Operational Support)

16 July 1969

NOT TO BE DISSEMGLATEO FURTHER OR SYMBINED

TO ANYONE WONORE PRIOR PERMISSION OF THE

CENTRAL INTELLIBENCE AGENCY.

SECRET

G33JP 1

Edated ina asterati.

designes, ent

declaries in

---

## Page 15

SUBJECT=; (Optional) 28

ROUTING ENDAR CORD SHETT

FROMENA

TO: Oncer designe

building).:

Chief

, SR. Division

To number,

52-DATS MONE

FORWARDED

• EXTENSION

-5777

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

OR. 03 February 19643

sirin ires

COMMENTS (Number dach comment to how frea

do whomsDrew a ling-ceross colum

HENSE 107

-=..

STOP SECRETE EYES ONLYZ

BY HANDS

15.:

FCM

EDITIONS

SECRET

182 BENET

EYES ONLY

L CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

•USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIEO

---

## Page 16

EYES. ONLY

II February 1959

-

HEYORAYDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

a. NeSeorge Suady

Yuri Ivanovich HOSaNcO

This monorandia refers. to tho Stato Dapartasat

rolaass of 10 Fabruary an subjact case and provides addi-

tional background as veil as informazion er his currepe:

3E2123+

AS a IGB staff offices, NOSENEO is regularirs

assigaed to the Countozistelligaace Directorete of the -

XGB In Moscos but was included in the soriot dolegation

to tha Disamazeat Coaforenes as part of a cover arrange

ment mich persitiod his to carry out intolligence and :

sacurity funczlons in Geneya on boball of the 163..:

Ja: HOSENXO also

attended various sossions or the

Disalaazent Conference hold in Gonava In 1952k

During :

cha.course. of thesa sessions NOSENKO sought contact with

officials of the l.'S. Governaent, infored those officials

that he ras affiliated with the Soviet State Security ap-

paratus and voluntearod to aid tho U. S. Gororgent in

darecting Soviet subversive activizy dirteted against tha

U,S. Governsente

During the course of his contact sich

U.S- authorizios NOSENKO stazed that bis cooperation aiti.

the U.S. Goramzant originatod with his distasta and hatro

for tha Sovlet Jogise in geasral, vità his desire to obtain

gorange of the majust costs of his father, 'i senior official

In the Sorise shipbullding indugay, and with the generat

Ichizallon ci tha Anoricans

with whow he had come in con-

tact within the Soviaz Union.

In lato Januaty 1964, NOSENTO arrived in Gonaray

again aasquarading as a ramber of the Soviat dolegation

Io the Disaraggent Conference.

Subject sacretly notified

his CIA contacts in tha United States concoming his pres-

onco in Genera and arranged to seet with thase contacis..

During a serios di sootings NOSENTO provided information

incladiag docunents concorning Soviet Staio Security acti

vitias virnin the USSR and abroad and a detailad account:

For stato Security (163) -

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 17

14-00000

EYES

3. OMLY:

5=

During these most tocent neetings NOSEND announced

his desirs to laare the USSa parmanentiy and seei bis futura

In the Nest.

lie claised his ney sors in the KGB (First.

Daputy Chiaf of chaz dapartant chataed mith the suivalllance

and accruitsent of Anerican visitors to the USSR) vas oi.

pasding aad that he would nor do abla to visit the vest:

with any fragaency. Accordiagly, ho prepared a roquest for

political asylus in the lairod Statos. He sas takeR-to

Fraskfart, Gamany shore he is currently undazgoing latarro-

gation, Plaas ars now being nade to remove his to tao la sa

::Ce8 7-4.

It should bo noted that CIA contact with Subjact.

has sos bosa extonsive and that we vill requiro additional

corned sith substantive aspects of the Disaragaent Conference,

and he inarefore is not expected to be able to shod auch, it

any, light on that aroa of out interest::

Pa.

1:7.. The possibility thai dOSExos dofeczion sas de

signed to wIock the conference sas sost carefully considered.

Too decision so accept his yas taken on the conviczion that

the Soriats would sot have chosea such a yulnerablo agoni

(sail officer of the 153) for this kind of 50ys.

Theis Fi Tarasessinos

• Acting Doputy Disector:

fOX Plars

CSR/DEN/jiF D 11 Feb 64

Distribution:

Orig - Adse

Z CE - SR/CI/K-Dogey

CC

- C/CI

CSR

EC - DD/OS

IND SENT

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 18

t1L) UNLI

ENTRAL inTeLLiGENce AGeNcY

WASHINGTON 25. D. C.

OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

12 Fabraasy. 1964

NEZORANDUN FORE

SUSJECTE

United Statos Intolligence Beard Heabers

Just Ivanovich NOSERSO

Inis senoranda JOfars In the State Departaent

Tolaaso of 10 Fabiuary on subjeci casa and providos addi-

Cional backgrouad as woll as inforzazion on his curient:

5*22193%

2o As a I55 stall officor, NOSENTO is regularly

assignad io sha Counterinzelligenes Directorase of tho

Ica. In Moscow but yas included in the Soviot dalegation

Io tha Disarazzent Conferenca as part of a coyor arzaager?

acht shich peraitted hia to carry out intelligence and

security funccious in fanaya on behalf of the X63.

NOSENKO also attended various sossions

Disarmason? Conforence hold in Genezz in 1962..

During

coursE at these sessions, NOSENKO sought contact with

officials of the J. S. Goveranent, inforded These officiais

that ho was affiliatod with tha soyier stato Security ip-

detacting Soriot subverairo activity directed against the

B, Ss Gororanant: During suo course of his

U, Sy anchorities, NOSEND statod that his cooperation rita

the U,S. Gorosrasas originazed vich his distasto and hazzad

for lie Soviot Jogino in saneral, with his dosize to obtain

Izvengo for too unjust cench of sis fatheis a senzor 011icia1

in the soviet shipbuilding inustry, and with she genera

amiratios of sho Adricars wich wace he had come in con

tact vichia the Sorist Union.

In lars Janiary 1984,

ROSENED arrivad in Geneva,

szain masquarading as a zesbar of tha Sovia? delagation

to the Disaranent Conforenco.

Subject sectorly notified

his ill conracts in the United stalas cancerning his prog

anes in Conera ad arrangod to acet tito those contaces

During a serios of meetings Nosairo provided infornation

including docuenis concoming Soviet Saree Secutidy aci

vitios witsin the US5R and abroad and a detailad account

EYES ONLY

---

## Page 19

DIS

of the ISD aperItion against U. S. Professor sarzaooIn

which YOSENIO said he hai personally sugarvised at the

diraction ai SEMICHASTAIY, the Chaimas of the Conaistes

fOI SEaTE SACHILEY: (KGB)*

5.. During these nost recent seatings NOSENIO announced

his desire to leave the USS? perzarently and seek his future

in tho dest :Lo: clained his new work in tha 158 (First

Doputy Chiof of that dopastent charged with sar survoll asce

1nd rocIDitsent of AneTiCan ViSITON. tO. Ihe USSRI Has aI-

panding and that he sould not be able to visit the Host

with any frequeney.

• Accordingly, he preparad a request for

polttical asylu in the Tailed States. He was Iaken.50

Frankfart, Goraany thore he is curtently undergoing interro-

Plans are non being nade to renove him to the be S.

I: should be noted that CIA contact sith Subjaci

-has not beor extersive and that sa will require additionai

thorouga interrogation to establisk Subject's bona fidas.

It shoald also be notod that MOSENdO's duties saro aot cou-

and he therefore is not expected to be sois to shed such, le

any; lighi on that area of our interasi.

7a. Tao possibility that NOSENIOs defection vas de

signed to wreci. the conferance das nost carafully considared

The decision: to accop his vas taken on the conviction that.

the soviets would not bave chosen such a valnarable agent

(stall officer of the XGB) faT this Mind of move.

Marshall S. Cartor

Lloutonant Ganeral, USA

Deputy piractor

---

## Page 20

"NosenRo sh

Accouns Disputes Charge by Soviet

BITAD SIUIC E

spectat to 23» ion Tort Ties

Detecion Preceded • Repor

Service." Ofticials of the site

•WASEINGION, Feb:iT

p: Department, the • Central-In-

Yuri I: Nosenko told

Swise-Polic

Apparenily. aligences Agency and

the

Embassy-nicial'at

Trimigration and Nahiralization

frontation here last Eri

zence

Seïvice were aisa present..

he leit. Switerland. on

ear Norenka was described a

to the. United- States 28-hour

having been completely relaxe

before hiside

•ported

Tvas

cuning the interview c

531215.

tice

Swiss author

miLt

_He is understood to. have.told

[re Soviet, diplomat during their

the forer

businesslike-conference that he

oticer'of the Soviet Cora-

ailable delected off-kiss

OWIT

-volition

mittee

DE. SLES Securitri toel

on the

without any outside pressures.

secret police zppeared to amoust

-The

His statements, it was report

to a denia! of le Soviet charge, Gereva

it.

on- Inted: did not allay Soviet résent

that the Swiss zuthorities. bad

ad; told

the Swiss police zt 5

been zegligect, in preventing mis

PSC Feb.

ment against Swiss authorities.

5.

tbat

Diplomatic reports reaching the

défection. aren

so-was miss: State-Department said that so

Bu

Mr. Nosenko,

•who quit as

state vist diplomats in; foreign capi-

membar of the Soviet delegation

of-the tals.continuedito-register-com-

Le said

to the Geeiz disa

plaints about alleged negugence

ference Feb: f

actual arter Mr. Nosanko's conference

OPiA

with the Soviet diploma

here in.

•Scales

The. Sta

nounced acithe

concontation was

ting place

in: Washingtonat the request: o

the: Sovial. Earbassy,

but: no

ir the

shing-

other details were made public.

Ine department-said that almigration and., Naiuaiatioal)

194

---

## Page 21

U.S. Lets Swiss

And Red Unyoys

Talk to Defector

Nosenko Agan

Voices Desire.

For Asylum

1000%

:By- Chalmers

Soviet secret police des

lector. Yuri Is Nosenko S

in the United States where-

he-was interviewed yester

day by oficials. of.both.the

Russian and "S miss Em

bassies:-

The State Department said

each interview lasted less Lian

an houriard that a Department

gilicial was present each time:

Noserso reafürmed his earlier:

request; for

isyum. In ther

United.

States and it will be

granted.:

State Department sposes aug

Richard, I. Philips in-giving!

out. this. information, daclined

to sariwhere the interviews

(rook place or to give any des

tails. Earlier he had said it

was possible that newsmen

here. will be allowed to talk

Soviet Kicks up Fussi

These developments, came:

as the Soviet Union kicked up :

a diplomatic fuss over the dis

appearance

ne had seen assigned as ar

"expert" in the Soviet delega-

tion at the I7-nabion disarma-

meat

conference.

Phillpos

said he was "on temporary

duty from KGE. (secret po-

lice)

headquarers in Mos:

to jesterday Moscow

nad been directing its public

ciplomatic murai

at th

e

Saiss,

charging

them

with

loose secuniT.

The

provision

for a Swiss diplomat to inter-

res Josenio was to

assure

the - Swiss.

that the

United

States

had saken part in no.

iLegal ac: on leir soil.

The

Swiss.

already

had

strongly rejected the

Soviet

charges.

On

Wednesday, Pralips re.

See DEFECTOR, 15, Col. 1

---

## Page 22

See Defector

ported

yesterday,

•Sovieticalle

Exchassy messenger brought: a dor-Fox

message to. the State Depart

the :

•UnI

ment-asking

for information

perissabr

"255 to

the manner in whica

He's

preseated him;

irogis

self to beau

authorities

сері

anderequested

unity

Uni

toäinterview.

De-

emayor.

Lyo place.

Moscow: Soviet:

oreign

Andrer

Gromy

date

thenc

the

-bands

Ligence Agen

Deepso word up ta

last; nigh os the defection on

the sSowels radio: or In: the

ass. "thaugh

word of mouth

had-soread z

through

"Itw

as felt here that Moscow:

but probaoiy not much more. might

Believed Genuie

have,i Stepped rup. its

protest after- Tsarapkin had

it is assumed here that

publicly-downgraded-the

the

case

36-yearold Nosenko is a

in: Geneva: At' any. rate

U.S:

gen-

disarmament: negotiator

• Wil

juine deiector: thoug the

pos-

liam C. Foster and Tsarapkin

sibility of his being a

double

deld

another.

business session

agent:has:.not.ceen

overlook

ed.

it also is felt-

re

they said the case was not dis-

the Soviet:

he

that

in Geneva yesterday at which

Protest"

Fras

ПО

cussed i.

stronger:.than?.could be

ex-

pected The requests for-an

•It

also

was: noted bere that

the

Soviet: Communist: Party

interviels rare butsnot.

un

precedented, was granted:

in

Central -Committee has been

meeting. in. Moscow all' this

hopes. of recrpeccal

treatment

week.

should. me. occasior:

But whether the

No-

¡senko case svas discussed vas

Moscav: Cipatca

said not tinos

WAST

---

## Page 23

4-0000:

irwnii

..-....--.-.-.ao.u.s0=0

---

## Page 24

12 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOX Actag Chief, Support Branch At

EROM

Chiel, Operational Support Division

SUBJECT

AEFOX TROT

#262 622

1EDS/ECS

ASS? /TOS

0/=)

6/7.70

C;-3

C/=-

1/0153777

This memorandum is primarily for the record and will

record the essence of a meeting held on the morning of l2 May

1964, at which the following were presents Messrs.

Charles Kane,

Jack: Bauman;

OS- Dr Charles Bohrer, Medical Staff; Messrs.

Bagley,:

yar plovich (ps), McMahon and David Murphy, SR Division.

The essence of this meeting was furnished to the Acting

Chiet, Support Branch oa'12 May 1964, as follows:

Effective immediately or as soon as practicable, the following

procedures will apply with regard to the handling of the

• Subject=

Q) Subject will receive a regular diet with modest regulated

portions

n1922 20

He is to have no dessert or

'trimmings;

but may have the necessary silverware with which to

eat properly. (CAUTION--Extreme care should be

exercised with regard to controlling the silverware,

and it wastsuggested that at least two of the guards

be required to count the silverware in and out; that

the silverware be placed on the tray in a manner

where it could be observed before the guards enter

the room, etc.)

(2) Arrangements are to be made for the installation of

adequate air-conditioning equipment to insure that a

comfortable temperature is maintained. (It is under-

stood that there is quite a bit of equipment available

through Logistics channels.)

(3) Subject is to receive a bath; change of underwear;

change of uniform; and a change of linen for his bed.

1225

---

## Page 25

(4) Subject is to receive a haircut, the shorter the better.

(55 subjectis to receive one Cigarette on 12 May 1964-

SINOTE-

these changes with regard to the bath, haircut,

i a te su to become avate to be

instructions from SR Division as to when these items

are to be accomplished in the future.)

16) Elective immediately, Dr Bohrer will visit the

Subject only on Tuesday each week.

enditur

(7).

madation to the above, it mast be emphasized that

our attitude toward the Subject will remain precisely

the same.

and"our security procedures, including

searches, will continue to be at maximum control.

It was further ascertained that we will have custody of:

the Subject until at least July.. It was suggested that perhaps we may

wish to explore some modifications in the assignment of personnel

or schedule of assignments. In addition, the Acting Chief, Support

Branch has suggested that immediate consideration be given to

devising necessary procedures to be followed in the event of an

emergency involving loss of control of the Subject.

This should

be discussed immediately with the responsible DO supervisors

and specific procedures devised, and all guards properly informed

as to-their responsibilities in this matter.

if 16 are

Jack M. Bauman

Bauman/ewd (5-12-64)

---

## Page 26

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

