# 104-10215-10002

## Page 1

7104-10215-10002

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:

SPECIFY AIN DA SEA POUCH

SEGRET

DISPATCH NO. ERSM-816

Security Informali anton d9T

QLASSIFICATION

ACT? 1652

TO

: Chief of Station, san Joes

DATE:

FROM : Chlas, WE

SUBJECT: GENERAL. Operational

sPEcIFIc. Sooursty forlou of Curreat Operations - Frooot HABID

RIT: Fold Fogulation Fo. 50-20, 1 July 1952

1o

Jor attention la 1mited to the provisions of the refureroe

regulation valen require periodio revious of etrait operations.

• Sinos all operations at your station are curfently embraced by

MAglo projEct (HUMANID), the sabedule af reviewa described 1a paregraph 19

o to rarereneed regulation wit wot be deepened and forwarded to you by

Hesiquarters. Project blaiin and falatod sub projopts will be saveyed bare

as one operation.

3. In comertionila the present

revol, you are reminded that

perational date contrined 1n lastquartert Siles doos not in all cason refloet

requested to make pertinent comenta and corrootiona, as well as indioate tas

foarablo remodial action to saprore the security of the operationa, la

Bocardance with the rontatons of parugrana l6 as the roferened regulation. •

lo Project BUMAROID Is ConTriBed of fOUr EgIta: HMAIDID (U. S. citie

cogidsant of employer of Station Chief, incipal ageat, out out), EMANDID I

(Indi renous agent,

o malola (indigenous agent.

which la the

23

The ebiestima of projoot MAlaID, as sot forth in the approved

CS COPY

ура3. СабЛИ

• G. KING

ING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

AUTHETIEATNE OBIC

201-168881

80-80

---

## Page 2

01-00009

!

SEGRET

Sea Information DEntSAcR

- 2 -

(a) Out-out services (WHAROID).

(b)

Penetration of

](LEMANOID III).

(0)

(d)

Penetration of

(o) Information menating troa university and Intellectual

(I) Parallal penetration

(g) Additional sources of information on political movementa.

6.

She current method (a) of centret and simmunicationa betueen BHANOID

and HUMANOID IlI 18 not clear to Headquarters.

TiSA-108k inlicated that

FUMANOID plannod to close his photo shop thus eliminating the letter drop and

safe house that had been used previously for contacte between these agents.

IRSt 3215 pointed out that "contact between cut-out (HAMID and agent

(HUMANOID-III) 1a the veakest security link in tho project at this tiso."

It is expeoted that the field security survey will describe present contaote

and coomunications in sufficient detail to clarify those points and indicate

1f the security risk involved has been rezoved or reasonably miniaised.

To Contact end samunication between HUlANOID and the

ds witting of the operatdon.

His permission to Intercept

"the Americans" were interested in communist

the Direotar himself originally selected the two clerks (aution and

HUMANOID»II) who were assigned to the task of

I Since 12

coption of the operation coverage has gradually Increased to cover amy!

of isterest rather than nerely coumnist

] The station presumes

that this expanded coverage has dens vithout the knowledge of the Directos.

The alacrity (apparently) with which the Director seceded to ENABOID's

request, and the assumption that the Director 18 not avare of the expanded

coverage, suggests possible security hasards which should be considered by the

Meld station.

Of importance la the posalbility that thell

18 a

ahared operation. It is publicly knovn thatl

sons times confiscate counist

Reat vane orto sit

officials, par

Molarly the Director are to cotact Bae nature of tell go toreto,

Identify higher elemente 1a the nat, control the operation, eto.

SECRET SESH RITZED

---

## Page 3

- SECRET

security Intermatior

It is reocmended that this aspect of the operation be commented

apon by the station with a vlew to strengtbening the security and evaluating

the riska involved in terma of value derived fron the operation. As a first

step 1t in suggosted that biographic information be furnishe! Ferdouarters 1m

order that we may initiate a nane chock on the Director. The station should

also Indicato the desirability of Initiatine security clearance action. This

would sech la be aspectally laportant 11 the birectar haa arlensive knowledie

or other, station operations.

8. A study of past operational data suggests the possibility that too

ach dependence le being placed on the Irisolpal agent and out cant HUMANOID.

At the present time he ecte aa cut-out for two nets

penotration of tbe

No Pecent renevas of the project en

Visaged Isplesentation of other objectives which may require the recruitment

of additional agenta and the creation of additiomal nets. IL HUMiDID's

virtually all our operations in the area.

It Is ricoumended that this matter be considered by the station 1f

and then any additional neta are created. Consideration ahould be civen to

the recrultment of additional cut outs in crier to avoid over dependence on

a single agent.

9 In March 1951 a tocanioal surveillande was condueted on an individual

of interest. Tro agents HundOlD and HUAlIST were utilized in the monitoring

phase of the operation. When local authorities detected the operation,

HUMA KIST as apprebended, Interrogated,

and ultinatels revealed the identity

of the Chief of Station (since replaced). After a borough revie of available

evidence, deadquartors concurrod with the atationle opinion that HUMAHOlD

probably had not been identified by tbel

Goverment. Hovever. 1t

Chested that the investigation by the overment vas conducted by

Chief of Detectives and reportedly a followar or

participation in the imestiration may of may not be

Bignificant because of his adherence tol

In any event it is recomended

that HIMAOID'a role in the surveillance operation be thoroughly revlewed 1f

Jare fulfilled in the nationel electiona

Tart year, It is also recamended that constant efforts be made to confirm the

belief that HUMANOID was not contaminated.

10. A revioN of HUMANOID's part and present contacte with egont personnel

rereale that he has had clandestine intelligence relations with bialIST

(paragraph 9, above), HUGGER, HUMANOID_I, HUMANOID-II, and HUMAHJI III.

Both ¿UMAlUST and HUGGER have been terainated, and there 1a no evidenoo to

Indicate the cireumstances attending their termination have in any way affeoted

the security of HiMANOID.

Honsthaless, It 1a. noted that HMANOID's intelligenoe

aotivities are known to a widening cirele of indigenous agente. In this

connection 1t aust also be remembered that HUMOlD's services in behalf of

"the Americans" are known to the Director of tbe

graph ? above). Mareover, 1n July 1951,

SECRET,

BISE AINED

---

## Page 4

1 SECRET

Security Information

TESLAID

•..

It iB recormended that the ebove Information be evaluated by the

Hold station when the independent field survey of project HUMANOID 1a

undertaken. Partinent oaments should be made regarding the significence

of this information tron a security vierpolat.

U1. In sumery, It In rocamended that HUMANOlD exercise estreno caution

1a all of his intelligence activities. Although there is no clearly defined

security probles involved, paragraphs 9 and 10, above, suggest areas of

above review will bo approciated.

1 Attachneit

SC Knic

1. C. KING

Ral: 1s

19 September 1952

By

BIDIEDI

BESE'AED

Đ8

6118

SECRET

AESENSULED

IT A

201-168881

---

