# 104-10186-10053

## Page 1

104-10186-10053

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATIONSREPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGÉNCY

is probibited by lew.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTEY Cuba

SUMÈCT "Armando" (an alias)

REPORT NO.

• DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00802-65

17 February 1965

1

CS-311/00115-64

(page 10)

8 July 1964

DATE OF 1964

RETURN TO CIA

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

Background Use Only

DATE ACO. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

Do Not Reproduce

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATIONE SQUICE GLADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE: APPRAISAS OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS oificer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

the following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes

supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addresses take no action on ahy of.

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Armandoris an office assistant in the Departamento

Escudas Especiales (Department of Special Schools - EE) in

the Direccion General ce Inteligencia (General Directorate

of Intelligence - DGI) .

"Armando" was born about 1930, is five feet six inches

aiout 150 pounts,

and has

medium build.

He has

even te coplexion, blacis, fine hair,

oval face, and white,

Heacquarters Comment

1.

The records

of this Agency reveal no icentifiable information

on "Armando."

CHOLE

lastated from

5

3

2

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

¡Note: Finid distribution indicated by "ft*.)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NAVY

11 A18

INSA

CINCSO * I&NS

I oca

INFORMATIONS REPORIS

FINFORMATLONARERORT

WH/SALEOB IL/ HE/5/R

WH/SA/MOB I1

HELLADEL

CULLA

CLARIA

AH/SA/R

202

LLWASHIN

KH/SA/CL

5

RID/AX

AH/HAVE

TOTALS WH/SA 8 (1), NE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

LX 2419

NO PROJECT (ABMON/1.

CSCI - 316/00802-65

61818046#

COORDIMATINO AEGEAN"

BLS • 1

---

