# 104-10179-10100

## Page 1

104-10179-10100

DISPATCH

GLASSUICATION

SECRET

70

Chlet, Task Force W

Chief, WILD

ROM

Chiel of Station, DAVE.

SUNG Operational/GYROSE/AMSTIUT-1

Report by A'STRUT-1 on ManOlo RAY Rivero

ACTION REQUIALO REFERENCOS

dotion Required: FYI

Reference: HBRA-10034, 21 November 1962

POSED

PHOCESSING

ACTICA

MANXED FOR INDENTIG

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ABSTRACT

FiSHEO

ad with a deat cent:

A translation of the report f

2. The original report was forwarded to WAVE by

reference.

END OF DISPATCII

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Distribution:

- TIW w/att.

1 - COS RIO W/Att. - to RID/DEP

ES COPY

"CODES FUTRINCE TO

201-239278

DATE TYPLO

DATE DiSPATCHED

17 DoO. 1962 Dk:.. t6

DIRANTON FIRAROL NO PUANDE A

UFGA-0993

PUANUARTERS FUE GUNGER

201-316616

201-230209

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• *

CLONE

PITOST

COUNTRY:

SUBJICT:

CUFA

POlitiCA

1. As soon aB I arrived at the lotel Conella in san Juan, P.R..

I received a visit from lanolo RAy.

The visit lasted 3 hourg.

conversation was lonp and dealt with Cuban matters as veld as

affairs of the allied,

western nation: led by the United States of

America.. He showed his adniration and synpathy torarde the person

and the politics of the young Iresident.

FAY considers the reroval

of the missiles from

Cuba a preat victory over Moscow and as a halt

to the conmuniot advance under the hypocritical proparanda of peace.

2.

With specific reference to that which pertains to Cuba, he

feels that, thanks

"fira, enerpotic, and realistic" position

of the fresident, the United States has lent a great service to the

About the expected

invasion which he can cone near. he could

like all Cubans, refrain fror

erupporting it and he rlad of it."

and he says, even

when said Invasion fell throupl: becaure of realirtic.

political compromises of the fresident; the U.s. has made it possible

for world opirior to realize what Tidal CASTRO reprosents today.

is nothing

more than a puppet of the kremlin who has hanced over his

country completely to fussia.

As for the opinion vithin Cuba, RAY

believes it to te

"highly productive," cince those who could still

possibly be in

doubts have been riven the opportunity, thanks to the

nerpetic American position, to learn the whole truth

of the situation.

it terminated the ryth created in Cuba by fIDEL that Pussin sould

go to war in defense of his revolution.

As for the position of PAY toward the "Company", he la interested

in getting along well with that orcanization.

He told re:

"What does

one pain by having a controversy with then?

That does not solve any

problemaso much

altays been rv. opinion, from the terinnin;: of the

80, he continued, that he har been interviewed by all

to his by that orcanization, and "I rave the proof when

your dants) de his requent.

then intervieved in Havana by a fir.

py y00c intention vas so clear that despite

the fact that I would have preferred to see his at a place of ny oun

choosing, because I knew the surveillance the: bad on reg

to his houre, an extresoly ranjorous thini in those days for an extinister

of the Revolutionary rovernient.

Cand i can fevereline to ready se boneless aero

press) that, it colicit! and needs the help of the free borlo ard,

especially of the Arerican "leaver"

This helr Is asked cr

persons, inutitutions arder rover thing

#: +: 1 4668-7-64513

2ODEC6a

804539298

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Upon my askine, him for his opinion on nutilur Pardo LIADA In

front oi a nicrophone

talking to cura, he looted it me in surprise.

hare a seiding, ho said.

"It would certainir de TIDEL a preat deal of

FREELE

RAY, with Rehe sout on belle the did not to 1st yes offled

for a noment) that fIDEL already had the proofs that RAy, faustino

They were riving then enoush

PEREZ, And DaVId SALVADOR were conspirins""They will not have the nerve,"

"They have the nerve for everything. and don't forget

I an citing this convercation in order to

show you the vigilance that alread's exinted in those days on Manolo RAY.

eir friend of Bad CARe on a to une on the oring o prenato

Revolution.

It is an intervic, that I remember well, but I cannot

remember her name.

Besides, she shoved ne a larre hlack pockotbook in

which she sas carrying the docurentary proof. I understood then that

It was the Colo I did not see her again after that date.

60283

and it mand

---

## Page 4

22124

Beerenen pe dandeine

2a5:

Biete des Fa:

1020-E2A30OE SOUTE

Lazare laerie

EcuadecuBi225i dereià

tornade ge

triotiid

"fi"

?:.

•platinere

dile

finden

Pentine

Bilder mitlichte.

in geladente micicen

iii.

Sie nisie der de beteile ale der

elegende de cong.

natürliculite

die et illie de. zielle.de.

iisté-ne.

passisti

i Memest

Gil Gale matinele

!!!

---

## Page 5

..?

liding

Knudderie die denecdo die seiners antie

"Es di seelen die Tie it 144-

meintens le Clife:

till pulie

1016

Jitade the dile ist deute surilos

iiie

?.

i.d1

..f..

---

## Page 6

14-00000

in Ma 5cde3

•÷:.

pontili

,...::

niente delilin ile

indicendote, di wis delle salo

erie dendo de node de sias

lei turchia in de si solit

Musicarip. succese altie

.. l

itene ile nitre

tita. citt

i...él alic do de disco ile de dece dee dece Castio

. .:

Paules notatate Alade emida bende

miteta

"Fleuci due parallo e neo

iwonder,

maiel mar.

cina di Bene Colse culige

tile dis

..i mendande in donne dei de

"utile"

'!6..

ti poi cile dile diciter

inette

?'''-

:::

go::

---

