104-10071-10027,

] UNCLASSIFIED

“CI ys

-ERNAL

ONY
ROUTING AND ‘RECORD SHEET

C] con

ENTIAL SECRET

SUBJECT: [Ophonal)

NO”

FORWARDED.

L

Tt

C/SR/CI/Research pet

“2 ne

Cann ieai 7 sas, [yal
sR/O/Us/ at EE sm

oe ifigiat ial duut

ZF ere : one :

: ap [eeeUE wk

|
|
|
|

c/cr
ROLHH eae HER aoe
ape = aaa
__ ISUSIG =a Bho
12
oy is
C/CI/R&A |
BY esttestecisuitt Seeeieiat etestsstteed statis 7

HAND CARRY
CALL CORA, x-7735

Document Number ll] -26|

for FOIA Review on JUN 1976

HomeeeiSit 610 ttt" FE SECRET — J] CONFIDENTIAL =] INTERNAL = [7] UNCLASSIFIED

1

FROM: ~=—sAWBrasko é } EXTENSION
SR/CI/Research | | CSCI ~ 31780,.612 pssiesianas
5 © 39, x-7735
TO: (Officer designation, room number, ond Ste Suranceeaiiinceaia i
Etre fue etebeec lene i DATE cet | orricer’s | COMMENTS (Numher each comment to show from whom i
|e INITIALS | fo whom. Drow @ line across column after each comment.) f:



14-00000

= F Skbeti
gee f
< Cscl~g rela
Ms eS ETE i cece

oy

MEMORAROUM FOR: Direqter
Federal Bureau ef Investigation

SUBIECT z ohaeinenpeine of Fresident Jeha fF, Kennedy
Om HERES A wie te . ae Rama
: “so8 He To id. GSwAdeD cla BY mow tA KRAME:

° ange: teem e PMS OR A FG _

4, In the ceuree of our vasearch of Ailes pertaining te areas of
the USSR ta which Lee Harvey OS WALD allegedly resided, a phategraph
of an individeal closely resembling OS WALD was uncovered,

CW: USA

23. Cur flier tudicate that thie photograph (Attachment A) came
febes & colod transparency tahen bo Béinek, * 8h oF aboot 1) Auguek 6en4¢
196), by an Arperican tourist; Mrs. Menies F. AMER, whee address.
at the time waa &. O, Box 749, Solvang, Califarnig. (<7

i‘, The photograph appears to have been takes in I vent suine.ge
Sloahchad' (Central Square), which te located In the center
The tullding in the tuckground hag heen identified as The Falace of
Cultere, Sim people age depicted in the photugraph, The individual casa
secbud trow the right, appeare to be Lee Harvey OF A.D, It chould bo i
noted that the shirt thas individual ie wearing appears to be identleal to
thé shiee OG WALD ie wearing ia tes photographs frum the group of 47
photographs from dhe effects of OTWALD anich wore forwarded to this
Agency in your communication of 5 March 1964, Ale number (8) 16$-82555,
ny subject: Aswéslootion of fevildent John Fs RENMNENY. Copies of these

{ two photagraphe of OS WA).D are forwarded with thie repert ad Attachment B.

| 4. Source of the paki 0 identified one of the fernsled ia the picture,
poseihiy the ane on the lef, ae Svatlans (LNU}, an Inturist guide. Source
| was R¢cormpacied by auother American, Mise Rita NAMA, 595 Attardeg -

rond,: Satvang,

CEERPHED AEE 88 ery esw ee? $992.

to SeGF Pmeticny footisT Wo Prem

a fe MBLMEK , USER CA it MOECST~ (FEF
_Ol4-261 RESTRICTED TO CL/e a
Document Bombe? oF CS COPY 4. LM Ise y, i
for FOIA Rovic./ 95 JUN 1976 | Stuied seas aoe aCe



14-00000

SEbik I

Read, Salveng, California; who ie ponoibly the lenale #scaad fron
the Jef da Se eieernih. Mone of the other individuals ers be. i:
further tde: i. :

$. Mrs, BRAMMER and Mies MAR AP, beth of whom era Stulted
Statee citizens, were eoatected by tale Agency om m one-time baate,
following thele vetary fram thelr tour of the UH, The repert of
thie combnet, (=~3,818, 967, dated 21 tiarth 1oS. eubjems:
Realities/Vitev Farade/ interrogation ia Kinch Foll owing the Ctvdag
Away of a U6 Sewe biagesing, in fowws rad 6% Attachment ¢. .

1 he: Maree RRAMEI, who ie deserthed as “an alder eonipaalonY

te the suave description of Attachment C. feeotenes thin Agency with

180 color tranéparencios than dering the trip. Ataekmeat % ha taly
ene of the five transparencies of which négelive toghes were made aad
welnined by this Agency, AM of the 160 original estar sransparencies
Were reiutsed to Med, KRAMER, Pe

7. Mice MAMAN, referred td as “a College graduate * tn the -
eres description of Attachment C, provided this Agenty alth exe
reel of Benes color movie itim taken dering the trips The flim: was
viswad by this Agoacy and wae Cabsequently returned ty blag RARLAN,

 e, Thig Agency hoe bad no fesiner contact with elther Mre,.
KRAMER of Mien KAMAN Subsequent te the ¢aniaet reflected in the
report fornarded as Attachment C,

0. Thi effies would be tuterested ix any pottinesd information
‘ehleh iaterviows of irs, KRAMER and Mise RAMAN by your office

: muighe possibly provide along the fellowing iaoe:

a. A more positive identification of tha individual ta
Attachinens A tentatively identified ag O0wA Ln,

&. The exact date and estimate of the thoe of tiny when the
photograph (Attackivent A} was taken:

fe. Any information

vas oe

eebhiel
CS Copy


14-00000

ec. Amy dmtorco@e
teutlvddeata de the py

woieh «auld abe den dbenbitylig ther
aph (ottaele ont 4p,

a Nive a

= ¥ ree mt
q as reawodde wa nie : :
Meher sos : eh
29, Aide ori bewions gf tee cet perticont Menttipte
a inforcrathan bo the f veridur t's Prey eee errr yt rer ener

iveatdent Pemmedy be boing Sctaped pomdiay wo
findinge ia thie matter,

redet af yor ornate

poy Tha

TART omer Pon

Te BPP RE HE

BP ettasores ag elt 4 atoes patsea. 7, 0

Metered otion:

= Addressee
7 OPCE
+ CP OUPSE:
2 OPC Re

- OSH

= CBRE

al Pee {Cds ss thald ey *
Poa ay RE

oo HVA ZEP, 24B

crtg. &

*

ke

se (OU Besearen A Mraskaed lo Macch 1Eh4

