40766-0051

j REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tats maternal contains taformetion affecting thé Metienal Detinss of the United Otatee within the meaning of the Resonage Lack Tite
18 UBC Bea TH and TH the Uunmmiscicn oy fereation of which f9 any meget to an UnsUlberited pence te promibited oy law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

county Cuba neront No, _-CSCI-316/00804-65
* suuect "Bernabe" (an autas) pate ote «—«17- February 1965
j : NO. PAGES 1 :

REFERENCES, ne 811700115-64
9.
\ 8 yely toeq, RETURN TO cla

1

Hii ee Sc LH =a ackground Use Only
aentagton, D, C.

| BAB sta. January does fi sro. Gina.

THis UNEVALUATED upOeuATIOn SOURCE oro (ARE DETNINVEAPPLAISAL_OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE.

! source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban bia att
Service until April 1964. ra

Headquarters Comments ae

‘The ‘following report is one of a series containing personality
informati6n ‘provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the adcreeseee take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

: 1. "Bernabe" is an apprentice on the Peruvian desk of the
Seccion Sur (South American Section) in the Departamento de
Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Department - LN) of
the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI).

2. “Bernabe” was born between 1940 and 1945,¢1s of medium
height, weighs about 135 or 140 pounds, aya has thin build.
He has'a white complexion and brown hair.

Headquarters Comment

+ 1, The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
: on “Bernabe." .

ia 5
4
SECRET 3
NO FOREIGN DISSEM 2
i
wave Tom sid ama Trav Tae Tea i; OR, FBI 2
“REP _CINCLANT CINCSO “# —_I&NS
To Fat dpi indore by “7 a |

SCI-316/00504—

name 3 ws 90
> Lae
1S =P che

WH/SA

S (1), WE1 (1), CI 4, RID 1
