# 104-10192-10382

## Page 1

104-10192-10382

JuRa

- 11300-471

ROUTING

ACTION

INO

set 0700

CLASSIMCO MESSAGE

e agero del teo

AHISA &

CDP. ADOP;

AD/CI: 2, 20.9€.

PITIES 239 :

•= a laso

KA322

10* 12H:

/T:

T.

'''T"

ABSTRACT

7.

IH0M

4/ (5]

..:

"1.19

r!'

!!?...?

C

OFf durti!

i..!!s."

.!.

R

MICROFILMEO

JAN 2 6 1965

DOC. MICRO. BER.

T::1

IN COMMENTI

R

C

RELEASING IWO

NO DISCERNATON C

-."-8j.Nd

¡ DATE DiSTRiBUiCO

ICAS

ROUTIP-E

BASiC ON

LIAISON-

14-300 -4

P.81 1 389.

5080.6007

CASCONO

1191

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLISINCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COLNTRY

DATSOE

INFO

• TOCS

PLACE&

DATE ACO.

SOLRCE

AND

APPRAISAL

REF

FIELD REPORT NO.

IN

601

• 1a AS OF Ó JANUARY 1965, MANUEL

GET RIVERO, LEADER OF THE

JUNTA REVOLUCIOVARIA CUSAN (JURE, CUENY REVOLUTICVARY JUNTA),

SAID THAT HE INTENDS TO ENTER CUSA ESVETIME BETWEEN 15 AND 28

JANUARY 1965.

2. ON 2 JANUARY SOME OF JURE'S PERSONVEL ARRIVEO IN THE DOMINICAN

MAINLAND. AFTER HAVING. TEST-FIRED WEARNS ON BEATA ISLAÑO, DOMINICAN

REPUALIC, WHICH THE DOMINICAN GOVESNVENI MAS PERMITTED RAY TO USE

FOR OPERATIONAL PURPOSES. DURING THEIS RETURN FROM TESTING,

THEIR BOAT, PRESUMABLY THE MY VENUS, LINOST SANE BECAUSE OF STRONG

WINDS ENCOUNTERED WHEN SHE WAS SAILING THROUGH MONGON PASS BETWEEN

CONFIDENTIAL

STAIL'EE

DiA

AHMTIALS NAVT AIR IS SICOLF ASA AL

USEA OCA

00

19-30s -4:

•1"

---

## Page 3

'LICE CONTROLS ABOVE TOP ALICA LOSE ADE ALLOT GUTION ELICA LISA

MPO 8-10

$208

15 6541853

PRaE'?

CONFIDENTIAL

TOCS

SEATA ISLANO AND LAS CALDERAS. CH

CESARE

3. AS OF 2 JANUARY SURE HAD 14 GREN MENSE DISSIINES TO THE.

MN VENUS, INCLUDINO THE TWO RECENT AZRIVALS, SANUEL

RASELA CASTRO,

JURE'S MILITARY CONCASSER, AND ADOLISIAVAS SHO IS ORIGINALLI

RON THE SIERRA DEL CRISTAL AREA OF ORIENTE PROVINCE, ¡FIEL

COMENTA MOOLIS CAVAS IS BELIEVED TO REFER TO NICANS NETS. COBS;)

BY 6 JANUARY, RAY HAD ARRIVED IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIE WITH THO

MORE MEN! GUAJIROS FROM THE SIERRA MAESTRA, RAY SAID HE WAS GOING

TO TALK WITH PRESIDENT DONALD REIO CABRAL THAT DIY.

H. AS OF 6 JANUARY, JURE HO THE FOLLOWING GOATS; ARUS, AND.

AMMUNITION IN ADDITIC TO THE RADAR-EQUIPPEE MAY VENUSE THE COSTON

WHALERS SELIEVEO TO SE EQUIPPED WITH INFRARCO LIGHTS ANO RADIO

BEACONS: THO 5E-CALIDER MCMINE GUNS; TWO 3E-CALIOER MACHINE GUNS,

12 FAL RIFLES, AUTOMATIC AND SENS-AUTOMATIC; TWO M-S Gi iRACHINE

GUNS: THREE ¿E-MY CANNERS; FOUR NEIA RIFLES; ONE SWEDISH & SUEMACHINE

GUN: THREE SCHXCISSER GINA SUMACHINE GUNS; SEN POUNDS OF

C-i/TINT; S4D FEET OF EXPLOSIVE FUSE (PRIMA CORD); TOS FEET OF TIME

FUSES; ANO ING DETONATOR CAPS.

5. FICLO CONVENTE SCE TDESO3-315/81737-64 DATED 2Ü ESCEMBER

1904, FROY THE SIME SOURCE FOR PREVIOUS INFORMATION ON JERE'S

OPERATIONAL PLANS.

6.

FIELO DISSER: CINCLANT, CINCSO, CONNESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, USEG, BORDER PATROL, LINS, FOU ANO CUSTOMS. ¡ALSO

SENT (SANTO DONINSO.))

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

- 42-

---

