104-10764-10060

MATESIAL ELVIEGED AY CIA MEADQUAKTSES LY

HOUSE SELECT COSUULTTEE OX ASSASSINATIONS STAFF 2FXBERS \

FILE TITLE /HUNDER/VOLUME: LF AVG L PLL AL .
INCLUSIVE DATES: i

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: :

ROOMS, :
: i t
DELETIONS, IF ANY: G LU A age
: .
RIVED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
mel ape /oe | Bersy Phimee | tig frat i
a ee rr
2 ole ee i
a RE r
ee ee
nz poe
a ee ___.__!
SS —
es
fee ee \

RO DOCUMENTS MAY DE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

PCLT 42 GF ED ES


US AIR FORCE CABLE
FROM JCS

DATE: 10 JANUARY 1978

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

(VENEZUELAN)
VENSAIRCRAFT SECURITY THREAT EXPANDS



FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE 8 DECEMBER 1977 :

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY
ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

DATE: 6 DECEMBER 1977

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: DOORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY
ORGANIZAT: TONS



jomeee

STATE CABLES

DATE: 1 DECEMBER 1977 FM UNINT HAVANA
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL :
SUBJECT: VISAS FOR WERE AND CHILD OF 0. BOSCH

DATE: 26 NOVEMBER 977

CTASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: WIFE AND CHTEN OF ORLANDO BOSCH APPLY
FOR VISAS, :


FROM DIRECTOR, FBI
BATE: 16 JULY 1976
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: NAYIONAL LIBERATION FRONT OF CUBA, (FINC)

FBI.



_ STATE CABLES

FROM ANEMBASSY KINGSTON 2883

DATE: 13 JULY 1976

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: MIAMI TERRORISTS CLAIM BOMB BLAST ~

FROM AMEMBASSY BRIDGEDOWN 1281
DATE: 12 JULY 1976
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: BOMB BLAST IN BRIDGETOWN

FROM AMEMBASSY KINUSTON 2852
DATE: 12 JULY 1976 :
SUBJECT: BOMB BIAST AT AIRPORT
CEASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL



DATE: 24 JUNE 1976
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT 0: CUBA (Fine)

CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 24 JUNE 1976 (CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT; NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT OF CUBA (FLNC)
DATE; 7 JUNE 1976

‘ CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ACCION CUBANA (AC)
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (SAN JUAN)



X

tevevses FE Boone
SOtey,
TOus 4 e028 (001) 3eF2t ERLE, wb. DDD~E, BFos, C/PLEs Coeds EUBed,

HA OPIRRe LELIIDe: OOPORIs, MEET RT, PLESIILab, OLE/LSbe Shbe B16 be
a . :
7

Yo eozseze

Seoeveveceeccoesoeescevecee:

BEC RE T sorsasz woe ve ro

cre CC) sera i ae
You OyRLCTOR INFO }

Cc) Mtoe z
FOMENTEL IWTeL KETONE =
: QuPapatas i

Ee

PRED 10151SZ AXXXKK

ie i

YoUIR ouesassoarsze7e
+ .

YW a7 Wm

6

i

Ble AIP 29D
CE Paw 7f

semige Me gee: M0 INE vie

wwe



: 2 . QDyTiag
* Eacelligence’ lafotmatinn Cable it 0088222,
PUPS DO em Oe one Wat OF te Creme Baeey
COMBA 14RD 4! Chem Os ew oo EOE.
BUAVECSUa ICSsMECOLAD Cla were seran oes
COUFTAG) Sed OS TREO BH2 meen COPEES TEs
BCG7E WH Ol mahi Tee OF6 deive BOL,

s me tee tae tenwe fuaeseonens
‘bas tone OF =e dps od
West Gy eda ton BFPORT

UEOGAT CuAAd OE CE Toomntereyonorouneng dontaact

abs 063 OF OE
ed _

te O88 peesisres7snere

penis OF be san 18
1 gountave venezuece :
QUOIECTS STATUS OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BODEN é

to ON 9 MARCH 1976 FRANCISCO LE AM BRO WORd,

“LAWYER FOR CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO B08 E We Bayo THAT
A GROUP OF BOBCH'S CUBAN EXILE FOLLOWERS PLANNED TO MEET IN
"IME CARACAS HELTON HOTEL IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA) ON THE ‘evenine
“oF 1 APRIL 1978, TO ATTEND THIS MEETINGs KEANERO ‘BARD: ONE
MOLVIDUAL WOLD BE COMZAG PROM MIAMI, FLOREBAs GND ONE PROM -
; UERTO RICO, - REPRESENTATIVES PROM VENZUELA WOULD AL80 BE
TENDING. COMMENTS THE REASON FOR tHE MSRTING 18
iT KNOWN.) : ; :
: , LEARDRO Assure BOCK THAT HE ‘put THAT THE vente a
2UELAN GOVERNMENT WOULD ‘SOON MOVE. ON BRINGING OOSCH TO TRATL
“AND THAT HE HOPED TO GET A FIRM OECISSON BY EAWLY APRIL.
SW -ADDITION/LEANDAG TOLD BOBCH THAT THE QUE communary 38



seregt 3. GoPs2ee
UDP 38 Seed Sr ASTESOT®
waduteg Octsze ase OF ase
BEASTTIe€ VOVELLUGEOTE SIWALES 40D aLIMHIS WOHRCES

COS S1SSFSLASTI TE 262 VEL OF Tah Le Haes1} be SudJELT TB
COSTS S STATES ST GEHTERLAS Bus EOD OF agooet :

|, UOIES FIeeeCsay 410 TO BOsEe*s FoutLT, : .y 4
Be OUECHrE Pursica, CONDITION 16 wute IuPeovED SINCE . i ’
W BDSNDONED HIS SAGER BTAISE uD OCCEPTED MEDICEL ETIERTTON, MIE a
[] Commguts © SeucSeuyr CELTAOLE SOURCE INDEPENDENTLY eee
REPORTED Taal aniLe BOREN 1d NOM EEPECTED 10 acCOvER, wie
GENERAL PHYSICAL CONDITION 18 POOR, BOSCH GAVE. UP HID.8TaIRE
GEN CUBAN ERTLE LEADERD CONVINCED HIN. THAT PRENLOENT CeRLOS
|, ANDRE PEM EZ wad AGREED TO CxPEDITE HI8 CASES Te
QEILES, wOmEVER, CxacceMaTeD PEREZ COMMENTS 80 4B TO OEY
BOSCH TO GIVE UP HIB STRIKE, PEREZ MERELY PROMISED THE EXILED : 7
THAT HE MOULD TRY TO DETERMINE WHAT COULD BE DONE TO SPEED. UP ey

4
‘THE COURT.)
fe : —TPIELO WO. \
WYCe7b00, : ; :
iz ~" g. [__) DISsem, EMBASSY, FBT, SECRET SERVICE
2 [SENT TO “IE ] ¢ userNcse
(de2 ONLY), :
REPORT CLASS 8 EC RE T WARNINING NOTICESSENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

: “SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVEDeNOT RELEASABLE TO FOEIGN: NATIONALS©
WOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
LASSIFIED BY RECORDES REFORTING OFFICER, XGDB<2,..



Aeelsed

a
ates

3 SEULOSS Wools (302) BaF OR FILES
BEEIIDs Uibied, PLEsIETed, (SE.
ewecccee:

Seto Se mrss.

: 4
i 10 oreo0e8 : ; ae

6 ECO ET Cases Fee Te sures ‘{ 10919 cvesisroreeses. :
cae ) ba bd re ee ;

Vos DIRECTION 3uFO Larmsany,
G@UINTEL Aemye FHreE

GUPDSTAS BOURLES RAdDIETaKOIE Tos PROM TOEN (OY OPS CagLe..

: BIALCTON CuLV), NOT PO® LIAISON, OO OBJECTIVES
Dobe MO INDEX, FILE DEFERRED, ALL. APTER® FILED
Ouvetm, CL AY O35133. 2

PULEOe 0asSeer- kxaxan : d a ‘ll

|

3

€

sora s90208
of see tLe



: : seer ~
Intelligence Informaujn. Cable 21> -czeecen
FAWEE DEL ametam ms SE DS ters et emetom SCT pac 601 OF bette
COMES STATED o! GGemms ooh oo OF BHPCRT

Breve stee 3037

(O18) Crasumte gevis Fey

(Bvs/186) S08 €a8 $00 (mead COOSES TOU | : i
BSCE OFAC amgtten OC@ SECUR BOS), a i
fos pe ee ent eee - ; Looe

Kamen S| fp comes © noone bane @ enemen teceein

Osbee ta
7 Weeo Ga od Ohms tim FF08T SOT Penaciy Frac UateD wie ~:

Qeroet Crass BEC AE Redfern eee

os

erve Torte oe
O38 oe vee ve

COunTay = vENEZUELArcuee
sussect Opossrece eeLease OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER OMLawon noscH
CDOTs LATE JanuaRy 1976) i aise

ee wate JANUARY 1978 AN ADVIRER TO VENEZUELAN PRERTOENT
CARLOS ANDRES ° € RE Z SAIO THAT PEREZ 19 CURRENTLY CONATDERING
“ GIVING FINANCIAL AID To CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO B ° sc
mw RETURN. FOR BOSCH'S AGREEMENT NOT TO MOLEST VENEZUELAN PER®

SONNEL oR FACILITIES. BOSCH. WHO 18 CURRENTLY UNDER DENTENTION

3M VENEZUELA. IN CONNECTION WITH THE OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A

CUBANA ATRLINER. WILL BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL SOON. THE ADVISER

paid ccgeesmarmengieans

“antD. HE ADMITTED, HOWEVER, THAT THERE 18 NO CHANCE OF GETTING

ic Ueeat CONVICTION AGAINST BOSCH, fe
‘ aA PRESIDENT PEREZ 18 CURRENTLY ‘CONSIDERING GIVING.
—WOBCHIS. WIPE BS. 10,000 (U.S. B2.300) & MONTH. UPON AOSCH'B

“, MELRAGE PRON PRISON PEREZ PLANS 70 GIVE HIM U.S. $90,000 AN

=. , WHE CONDITION THAT HE NOT RETURN TO VENEZUELA “AND THAT THE

btcrer



SECeet Tu 6PG00SS
TOF IE Db=31S/010ed~78
BOGRING ROTICE Pact O02 OF O62
BEXSIVIVE TOTEALIGERCE SOURCES 48D MEVRODS TAvOLvEr

FYRTHER CISSEWINSTION ONO USE OF THIS TaroRMETION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED OT BEGINNING AND EHO OF REPORT

CUBAN EXILE GROUPS WE LEADS WOT aTtace VENEZUELAN wacturtses.

Be FIELD MO. :
uvee7e69 ; a ; 4
a DISEMs ENBASBY. Pat
AEPORT CLass SEC RE TeemARNING NOTICESBENBITEVE INTELLIGENCE
‘sources AND METHODS INVOVEEDeNOT RMELEASARLE TO FNRETCH RATIONAL TS
_ MOT RELEASAGLE TO CONTRACTORA OR CONTRACTOR/CONBUL TANTS
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. xGvae2.

Dene


ce
” ssezareo : secegt oe re)

5 23 sutey

OOPO—De PCEsIatos, (32.

Boceveceerecscecsooeoesooocssocossesosesososssousesseoess:

V6 0350018

“SEC OE U aarease vce ve sHtEL ; MVESTaat gacaunccanes”
1 eave ee
| Oe DIMEETOR INFO Gasntant. =
| GMENTER SWTEL: RMBTONE ane .

SuPpatas ad WAOITT/HKOLET OS DIRECTLY, -NOT For. LIALSON,
BUECTEVES dole WO INDE, FILE CEFERREO. ©
4 or 0351330 7

PRLeon B3neasz WO nn %

BCTORs Loodd Ch98d etd Fibs WBs O0G0G, Chmes brsseceee 1106 Wwsceay iz
2



5 : SECET enut tet
Intelligence Information Cable te 6350012

UMTS OSE msm AND Vik OF Mees ee Odmatom Saecr IPSGE 001 OF COS
COPARALS S1AHEO OT C£Goman AMD EME OF EEFOST :

SVATEsINM JCG/MC (O14) ClA/eMCe 88710 Fol.

CEY7706) Bed RG6 TRESE SOO (maRD COPIES 160

4SC/8 WAC unsiven OC@ BECUR
Comte te tearane teeny Onan teen ten Game temmmmnonee bee
Cao Sos Seeman bowen bow © anmnes boas

WeaS 15 Ans be C8 MATION REPORT nO) Foudllt EVALUATED ONTELUGE NC! ’
1S

°
Se leaned

+ GQEPORT CLASS 8 EC BE TeoHNINTEL©NORORNONOCONTRACY 7 .

Cxve to
Oley 23

| COUNTAYS- vENezuELévcuse act ; :
GUAJECTS FEARS THAT THE DEATH OF ORLANDO BOSCH AB A AESULT

t i OF A HUNGER STRIKE MAY BRING. ABOUT REPRISALS. -

. (bore 20621 FeoRUARY L978) .

to BOTH THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND THE CUBAN exive. Ge
COMMUNITY IN VENEZUELA ARE CONCERNED THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER
-ORLANDG BO 8 EM MAY OTE AS A RESULT OF HIS CURRENT HUNGER
STRIKE. FURTHERMORE. THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT FEARS. tHaT
SHOULD BOSCH DIE. CUBAN EXILE GROUPS WILL STEP UP THEER ATTACKS
| QM VENEZUELAN FACILITIES, THE CUBAN EXILE. COMMUNITY. IN. TURK»
PEARS. THAT EXILE ATTACKS ON THE VENEZUELANS WOULD BRING ABOUT
FURTHER. VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT REPRISALS AGAINST THE EXILE Cone
MUNITY. COMMENT? BOSCH WAS BEEN IMPRISONED EN VENEZUELA
“BINGE OCTOBER i976. iN CONNECTION WITH THE BOMBING OF a GUAANA
AIRUINER. Es AND THE OTHER INOTVIOUALS ACCUSED OF ENVOLVEMENT
4M THE BOMBING. HAVE WOT YET GEEN GROUHT To TRIAL. —BoncH,
4HO GUFFERG FROM A HEART AZLMENT AND ULCERS, HAS BEEN ON A

; 7 acénct
Shape timp enmasity. tents AREA AME BE Nsom ade tend ae Mob te anges Mie mB Le Teg tte



sECaET (aspet Te O3Suer2
- TorIe Dh $15/02582=78
esRntInG ROTICE PAGE O62.0F O63 —

| i

SEWSITIVE ENTELLIGENCE SOVECES 48D METHODS IuvOLVED

. FURTHER OLSSEMIMATION BND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
‘i CONTAOLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT a

ORIMATELY THREE @fEKS.)

UMEER STARE FOR at
2. ON 26 Feeauary 1078 OCTAVIO. L EP AG Ee VENEZUELAN

“twrsten OF ENTERION, DISCUSSED BOSCH'S CONOITION wITH &
M EXILE LEADER IW. VENEZUELA, LEPAGE SAID THAT HE HAD
SEEVED REPORTS ON BOSCH'S PHYSICAL CONDSTION AND THAT HE AND

HML@ GOVERNMENT OPFICTALS WERE CONCERNED THAT BOSCH MIGHT
{DEED OLE. SHOULD THIS OCCUR, LEPAGE SAID-HE HAO NO DOUBT
4AT VENEZUELA WOULD: BECOME THE TARGET FOR CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST

<TTACKS. LEPAGE EXPLAINED THAT BOSCH'S DEATH WOULD MEAN

_ ROBLES FOR THE GOVERNMENT AND THE EXILE COMMUNITY, THEREFORE.

sEPAGE ASKED THE EXILE LEADER TO TALK WITH BOSCH AND ATTEMPT

: “0 OLSSUADE HIM FROM CONTINUING WITH THE STRIKE.

A THE CUBAN EXILE LEADER ACCOMPANIED BY REINALDO

cu AR ‘TEN CANG. A CUBAN EXILE PHYSICIAN, VISITED BOSCH IN
|THE HOSPETAL ON. 21 FEBRUARY AND FOUND HIM TO BE IN SERTOUS :
SUMVSTCAL, CONDITION... BOSCH ALLONED MARTIN TO GIVE HIM INJECTIONS
0 COMBAT aRaIN DERYDRATION. BUT REFUSED ANY OTHER TREATHENT.
: OSCH ALSO REPUSED TO GIVE UP HIS HUNGER STRIKE. ee
Bosc EXPLAINED THAT HE WANTS TO BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL.
UT ADDED THAT VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PE RE %
“APAATO 10. BRING. HIM BEFORE A COURT UF LAN. PRESIDENT PEREZ.
jOSCH SAID. BETRAYED HIM AND THE CURAN extLes. FURTHERMORE.
RESIDENT PEREZ WILL BE PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR HI8 DEATH
AND WILL PAY THE PRICE FOR HIS GUILT. OMMENTE



\
i
i

i

-- sEcHET © i Im esscot2

i= PORTA OB031S/0ES86
@ARNING NOTICE PACE 003 OF OOS

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AWD METHODS INVOLVED
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS IMFOWMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
- DETAILS OF PEREZ® SUPPOSED BETRAYAL OF BOSCH ARE NOT KNOmM.
THE OPINION OF TME EXILE COMMUNITY IS THAT BOSCH AND PEREZ MAD.
“SOME SORT OF DEAL wHICH BOSCH FEELS PEREZ BETRAYED.) :

Se! itt : _| FIELD WO,
Wvc=7853

be Olsstm, EmBassy. FBX CO)

REPORT CLASS SE C RE TeemARNING NOTICE*SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
* SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED=NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS@
Nor RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULT ANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XxGOS~2



; ses2e7 SECEER Fe aT re er a rs

Svare

| ACTIONS Lace (ond) VOL FILE, VR, Chea, CA/SNG!O, Clea, EPS/EGR2,

TORE 0716532 Jan 78

Peecceveceneeerarerscoresecenseccstenneesecccenesonesoues:

{ EUROA, LP/DHS, ODPD=b, PCSZINT, PCS/IICHa, Sla.e SIAL, (a0sa) i
| eeeedereeecereennnrrerernneneneteceeerececccwreneooreseeesencceetauitnecence: 74
| #

78 0390015 Pace oo " Ue 088ea15 '

: SEC WE YT OP1aU02 JAN 76 STAFF :
2 eave t A
TOs PRIORITY NFO DIRECTOR, : iy : tee

| WNENTEL RNMUM REA’

REFS 0193080

1. LFOR PAST 14 MONTHS VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES HAVE WAD®

PCUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDD BO S CH AND THREE OTHER

E INDIVIDUALS UNDER DETENTION IS CONNECTION WITH THE ocrouer

' 1976 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AJRLINER, OURING THE PAST WEEKS

: SEVERAL BOMBING ATTACKS AGAINST VENEZUELAN INSTALLATIONS -

[IN THE U.S, HAVE TAKEN PLACE WITH CALLERS INDICATING THAT

| THEY HAD BEEN CARRIED OUT BY ANTI@CASTRO CUKANS IN RETALIA®
TION FOR BOSCH'S IMPRISONMENT, RECENTLY RECEIVED

S| INFORMATION FROM WKRAPIER@?5 (A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED EtHASIL ITY)

| THAT THE GOV HAD INFORMATION THAT ADDITIONAL ATTACKS AGAINST

WENEZUELAN INSTALLATION AND/OR GOVERNMENT FIGURES BOTH INe

SIDE VENEZUELA AND ABROAD WERE BEING PLANNED. CTHIS LAST

SENTENCE MAY NOT BE PASSEO|

co By ‘REF REQUEST IS PROBABLY IN RESPONSE. TO A GENERAL
| GOV OTRECTION URGING ADDITIONAL CAUTION AT ALL VENEZUELAN
INSTALLATIONS.

NO FILE. €2. IMPOET.

meqennetenenre ene crrene

NO OF MESSAGE



gor2atal

+ EPSZEGe2. EUWOe
: $das SIA/FLe ©

77 O1loceos

t
7SecRe v 2et

i - th be

ACTIONS LBodd C527) ISEUT FILEe We COCeSe CLPISe

FoeSe L)De LP70%Se LSNATDe Ove Dede

Sect 003 UF CCl
Yor: 20135022 O£C 77

297 DEC 77 INTEL.

) gate

ACTING)

Tor DIRECTORs

{ wNINTEL KAMUM INTEL

LasataMle

| prveo: 2010292 xexX

vee

Choa, CAsSObet. Claes
PLSZIATeSe PCSIMEwee He

(eEcIeEy

TOR ER Okes SF ESZEdeTT

avce7626

SuPpATAs SOURCES ReS FROM SUBJECT |
A OD OBJECTIVES Jets NO .
FILES EFERREDS aCe TER, FILED? RAVIEW. CL bY

03513536

Pas


ee toms tod

sete : secant é
- i H DS Gieeeme i
N fotelligence Information Cable ace 091 oF one :
N PURINES Drs Soames TOK an Usk OF Teas “Dt OR MATION SUBHECT TO i
CONTECRS STATED Al BEGSOENG. AND END oF mt .
STATE sR JCS/MCCOLAD CLAL@aCe i
Ses AS4 TRESS SDD FOF suite | *
& qmaRD COPIES TOS NSCS NFAC anSiTaM OCR X58). ae
Noe Commas taaenang Cote tannge am Gone Somewncenen tess @ tO eS? Gee sae : ‘.
Onan Comoe 8 epee ee wo Comoreone bare of Snes DNA Hl ri
SsEictonsrineeaaas Tras 1S AN WH ORMATION BEPORT. NOT Finale EVALUATED INTELUIGE MCE. = H 5
RESORT ELIS SEC OE T AWNING HOTICES SENSITIVE TNTECLIGENCE i
SOURCES AAD METHODS TevaLvEDeNOT RELEASABLE 10 FOREIGN NOTLONALSS® rape 16
NOT RELEASABLE TD CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOH/CONSULTANTS ‘ a .
: i a
exve TRIE DBESIS/ISZESETT 8g

“Ae THE HOTEL CURACAO INTERNATION
i: ’ bole t seers

DIST 20 DEC 77

VENEZUELA/CUBA/NETHERLANDS ANTILLES

countRy
por. «sD DECEMBER 1977

SuaJECT: INTERCEPTED MESSAGE FOR CUBAN
HON CUBAN ExILe MEETINGS IN cuRacad r t
ELD Oe HCH 7 BRE

EXILE LEADER ORLANDO

~ 8086

[eauesLen INTO THE

wid 18 CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION
1976 BOMBING OF 4

\

 pmyaON CELL OF ORLANDO BOSC He
LAIN CONNECTION WITH THE 6 OCTOBER
THE FOLLOWING 38 THE TEXT Ol
Wu WELL REGATN-YOUR PREEDOM
eA MEETING CF FATENDE GN 20 JANUARY,
we Enh oxscuss # VERY

UW VENEZUE
CUBANA ATALINERS
ce Ma GHPECT rar yo
OF- THE YEAR, THERE WILL Bi

F THE NOTES
AROUND THE FIRST

i acne?



“WOT MELE ASARLE VO CONTRACTORS OR EONTRACTOR /CONSIA TEN

secant IN Stesees

. TUETE Doors ssESZ2OS~F?
eaeREee KOTICe Pact 062 OF 002

TANBIUENE FOUELEIGENCE Soulless 60 ME TODS Levu veo,

OpAWa Ge ETSSEKTRATION BUD USE OF THIS FOF fear TOW suasect 70
comteOLS SISTED BT OEGTANING AND FRO OF eteuss

: Guppetant eatica, tow? {

a OlestHs Eunassy 6 8 xii i
AEPORT CLARE BE CB ET nawNING ROTICE © SEHSTTEve PHTELLIGEACE

SOURCES Oy ETHODS PRVOLVEGoNDT WELEDSORLE Te FORTIEN wATTONSL Be
crasstr ica

OY RECORUAD WEPUUTENG OFFICER. 1GDSH2.



Aha ese

BOSCH AvILA, ORLANDC eseeriee .
20-Case292 200-08 2-200901
Sex 4 Obb-bbrosy
ea - + SO CCH UD
v2

UNMARY OF INFO TO THE FE ARC ASSISTANT Us 5,
ATTORNEY RE INVESTIGATICN INTO ThE CEATH Ce
oneanac LETELIER, INFO CN TRE CRGANIZATIEN CF
uaa ORY.

TTLPURTHER INFO CONTAINECS 316-0360577 Ang
—-—BL2-0329077



- © OUTGOING ~ ZESSAUE
: Hansa genet per)

» ¢ :
o/s > eae aed -  Sisoe aad
cow chee ase es Laas tet wid 8 d a

. Sts AGEL paeererree) i :

. Bene 9 SES
TOs FEDERAL BURCAU OF SHVESTIGATION/ZATING RK. ACHARGUL/CE OCHA,

3 INVEST IGOTIVE DIVESTON.Y .
is SECRET--WaRNENG WOTtee » SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND neers - iY
| INVOLVED © WOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS ¥
EIR Be/OIOS- 77
SuBvects INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH OF ORLANDO LETELICRS INPCRRAS
TION ON THE ORGANIZATION OF CORU ¥ : i : +

“ [2 REPERENCes PF IRCIE322/03290- 2724.7 creer 3977:-v i

Be THE POLQOWING INFORMATION PERTAINS TO INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED
IN REPERENCE. THIS INFORMATION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE: ‘TO ASSISTANT
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY EUGENE NN. PROPPER.V wera wet
if Be THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION ON ROBERTO CARRERAS. AN
: ARGENTINE NATIONAL WHO WAS IDENTIFIED AS A TORNMER EMPLOYEE OF THE
“GULF AND WESTERN CORPORATION AT THE FALCONBPTDGE PROJECT DOMENECAN
EPUBLIC £3IC} AND WHO TS CURRENTLY EMPLOYED BY "EL ROSARIO™ WINE.
COMMENT: IN DECEMBER 397% THE SAME SOURCE WHO PRO=
VIDED PARAGRAPHS 2 -_b OF REFERENCE REPORTED HAT EULALTO, FRANCESCO
“prank” distro Wa AND ROLANDO Send "tHéanahDEZD TRAVELLED AT LEAST

pags Mtoe pe Eden ere ag ya
oni: ine tae 2 dof BRS
UNITE pieh yur Y ran TD i
mors Fura Be HG
0 eee EL :

oop HS
tony @

sat \


com wo us ONS OSS H :
—_ i

a : Cwm .

7 wood : ’

wee, To ca Roraks TO SEL bLvERo CARTES cube bomen oeksiitar be i :
GULF Aue wesecny, BREAICAS 7; SEEK ECOHEHIE ASSESH ANCE) : aie

od comments qagre ‘now Was a TOP se ETH. GULF OKD iad Tos
wESTERN th sone ABLESs PLOREBA.DY mY

3. RUBEN S010 35 PROBABLY. IDENTICAL WITH THE Soo PREVIOUSLY.

_ UDENTIPIOD Rig YOU AS ONE OF THC OLST FRECNDS OF US. ARMY MAJOR
| QUAN ARMAND MONTES. SOTO. THE OUNCR OF “LA PRANCESAT BAKERY (PASTRY

5 SHUOP) AND A CUBAN EXILE, 15 KNOUN TO OE CLOSE TO ORLANDO BOSCH. - ag ue
“AVELA, AND PRANK Castro. : i ee

A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY ncponte IN LATE 297%

" PHAT HE WAS TOLD BY A CUBAN EXILE IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC THAT a
DELEGATION OF LOCAL CUBANS. AMONG THEN RUBEN ‘SOTO, WAS: SOLICITING

“MONEY FOR CUBAN RIGHTIST acrayrta S6¥
[ONE RUBEN sor8 ‘waVETs i ‘tno WAS BORN IN ISLA BE PINOS, CUBA,

i
|
et.

“ON Bh. SEPTEMBER L437. WAS A MEMBER OF BRIGADE 2S0b AND WAS :A CAN-”:
IDATE TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY ‘IN EARLY
ib2. THERE HAS BEEN NO AGENCY Sete WITH SOTSO HAYET. SINCE THEN.Y
~ IN Rita ONE RUBEN. Sor0 sh sider. POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH RUBEN”

* bh ee IPR

en ERR ON RT mE



SOvO WAVET. UAE ECSCRIOED aS 4 FORMER E506 GPEGAIE nenece wun
VAS. AW CHCCUTIVE REMBES OF THE MOVERENT FOR REVELUTTONAeY RECOVERY
qMARD.Y ! : :
©. TW DECCRBCR 397% THE SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS. @ = & OF.
AEFCRENCE REPORTED. THAT IN JULY OR AUGUST 3970s DURING A MECTING OF
A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES AT THE PIZZA RESTAURANT IN THE: pontutcan : =
REPUBLIC. ARMANDO CABALLEROS» OWNER OF THE RESTAURANT. SPOKE OPENLY ,
ABOUT PLANS TO ASSASSINATE "UN GRAN FUNCIONARZO AMERICANO” IW COSTA
RICA. ¢ COMMENT! PLEASE SCE CLOL-DUNS> 7s 29 DECEMBER
QV, WHICH PROVIDED YOU WITH INFORMATION ON TERRORIST PLOTTING OF
CUBAN EXILES AND INFORMATION RELATING TO THE “ACTIVITIES OF U.S.
“ARNY MAJOR MONTES. IN RELATION TO THE PARAGRAPH TWO. MEETING. SOURCE
[REPORTED THAT THE PARTICIPANTS DISCUSSED THE FACT THAT FORMER
“SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER MET IN EITHER MEXICO OR COSTA RICA WITH
PAN IMPORTANT FIGURE IK THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT NAMED HART" <PROBABLY
ye Antianpo “haat” DAVALOSD. KISSINGER WAS LABELED A TRAITOR AND PLANS
«WERE DISCUSSED TO ASSASSINATE HIN IN SAN. JOSE, COSTA RICA, THE :

- PERSON CHARGED WITH COURDINATING THIS ACTION WAS. PETER. {OR PEDRO

ATE:
‘One:
Bart
or

sree eovass
8 IMPDET
a Beau.



© wmmn ves y
: '
ny SOURCE GELLEVTD Wuat MARTINEZ RESIOED Je Sant? rae :
PLAN UAT HOY CARAT Oey BECAUSE THE “ca youn GUT? ap oan cs plese
© SAPORTANT CHILES TDGRTIFEED 4s duet areas wre wo, ALSO STVED Pi ePeEPEECEEPES-EEEEEEA

pa, Pe po seer ee ane TaRTATENED 10 Gas] F Msalaed Lo ecaiaeeieeel : r
SSAA. y addy : i
OWE ARMANDO CUBALLERO PARODZ. UNO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON ‘
30 JULY 345s WAS A FORMER MEMBER OF THE BSOb BRIGADE. HE WAS, \
2 VORMINATED 7 IMTS AGENTY IN MAY 2463. IN LATE 2963 STHERE was
re ENTEREST w SING CAPARLERO IN TEACHING INFILTRATION TECHNIAUES euT
; Tene 23 NO INDICATION THAT HE WAS CONTACTED IN THIS RECARD-Y
A a ae, DANILO GONZALEZ, IDENTI~
PIED AS PRESIDENT OF THE CUBAN CLUB IN SANTO DOMINGO, OR ON LOCAL 7¢
_ EMPLOYEES OF THE AMERICAN Enpassy x SANTO DOMINGO. JOSE RENE (fis
“gose Senéz on FRANKLIN BOTAneo ct |? :
he” -JOREGE ALOHSD. Soul's 38 ts ‘PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JOREZ ALONSO-
Ping csmitre BHO BAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 2D JULY nies HE. IS THE

i
| 3
|

«SON OF FORMER CUBAN WECE PRESIDENT GUILLERNO a Bi$6-PusoL. BHO SERVED

| DURING THE ADMINISTRATION OF CARLOS PRIO- ALONSO-PUJOL RECEIVED
“pari pcre ae
onias
UNTTe
oer

ary

yoad

ete aa? augt BYs ve GOsWa4

meee Oras : ‘epysinesten oomeen
* emo 2 9) B82," MPDET 4
SRERET



USoee 8 em = sate ge.

Sits ;
TRAINING PROM THIS AGCWCY DURING 38D AND WAS capturchent ta pay

OF PUGS. WIS FATHER ourré¥eouy Pazd #300.000 VOR WES SOME RELEASE.

© WOVEVER, AT THE TENE THE RANSON WAS COPECTED. THERE WAS CORLIDCRABLE

SPECULATION AMONG EXILES IN THE AZAMZ ARCA THAT HES PATHE BID. NOT : rs
PAY THE RANSOM BUT HAD MADE A DEAL WITH THE CUBAN GOVERNAEAT FoR etree: ECE
ALONSO-PUJOL TO UNDERTAKE PRO=CASTRO: PROPAGANDA IN LATIN AMERICA IH |

EXCHANGE FOR HIS FRCEDON. ALONSO-PUJOL WAS ARRESTED INMLARE EW
‘ye QUE 3870 ON NARCOTECS+RELATED CHARGES: 27°28 BELIEVED THAY THE
DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL et INFORS

MATION on JORGE ALONSO-PUUOL BERMUDEZ- ¥
a “%e, THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTURFY

ERNESTO “WenNddoe? BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHEG INFORNA=
° TEONLY 50578 - oy 018

Be PABLO : shera Is fe ae en A ASE? BY AVENOL, FRAREO, ano rs
ALso KNOBUN AS FRANCISCO enous Petco. BHO MAY NOF BE EENTREAL
WITH THE. MARTIN MENTIONED IN REFERENCE. WAS BORN IN RAVAN onreh QUNE |
se yaa. FRANCO HAS SERVED AS PROPAGANDA SECRETARY FOR THE eUBAN: extLe

ORGANIZATION "JUNTA REVOLUCIONARTA® AND WAS EDITOR OF THE ANTE“ZASTRO |
pam
one:
wares
ext

i
!
|
i
i
i

be

H Senses IMPORT
| SECRET Wace



OUTGOING BIESSAGE TT

patti i
secaee
Hy ‘qumen? eronne Aeraren. octets came Ef - ‘
Vila 2 cu i
ogee: wo: ons 1 eod :
'
° : ‘
PUBLICATION PANIES peu oul oe AZ OF MAY 349b8.4 i y ‘
cee ;
4. §. FRANK TERA TS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH. PRANCISCO Awrente 14 a
26-85 3367 :
ed YEYRA ALOSEFONSO WHO WAS BORN IN HAVAKA ON 32 JULY 938. - YEIRA 3S t

A FORMER CUBAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICER WHO JUMPED SHIP “IN PANAMA IN
SQULY 3904 AND REQUESTED ASYLUM. HE HAS APPEARED OCPORE THE U.S.
SCHATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY AND HAS GIVEN TESTIMONY REELATING
TO-THE COMMUNZST THREAT TO THE U.S. VIA THE CARIGBEAN.Y cee
ei ade m8 AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY LUIS
Ross BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BLOGRAPHIC TiPORMATION.¥

By sHSBh Soni ts Besstecy XDENTECAL UITH JOSE: RAHON FLORENCIO |”
fixci “ caLeuNe UHo RUAS BORN IN LAS VILAS, CUBAs ON 27 OCTOBER waz. i
 AGUELA HAS LONG BEEN IDENTEFIED AS AN INFORMANT FOR DOMINICAN
“INTELLIGENCE. Y 27-2180 PE “

32. ONE A. UILFREDO Stance Get) CASTILLO, BORN IN GUINESs cuss
jn bb FEBRUARY 2943s. WAS SCHEDULED TO RECEIVE. PARAMILITARY. TRAINING
ROM. THIS AGENCY IN EARLY 4b} "
Jas UELAREDO BLANCO DEL CASTILLO. | i Hye ia
ae LEVI rice TS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH, LEVI ¢. FARRERO ;



OVILCUIRG BESDAES

nome cores ant om
-_ = -— = =

or op. 8 8 8 & 8
pelea

secect
coe

[a omen ent Comme a
cow: mo. mas yf FOoe 0 am 90st
: Dome

: BD ame oe cing .
OD omm 6 ° ‘
ARTILES WHO WAS GORN TH HAVANA OM S. OCTOBER vans. MARRERO HAS 6 ;
BEEN ACTIVE IN THE REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF THE PEOPLE corey SINCE. 21S ‘
+ poRnaTION ZW COSTA RICA IN WOVERBER 839724 : a ‘
: Ln THES AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY JOSE ee

1 = .
| burs ease: baste on THE Lack or PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC TUFORMATION.¥ t
ITH ANDRES NAZARIO tee

peer
35+ ANDRES Sancen Ba FRODABLY IDENTICAL W
goer efos
SARGEN WHO WAS BORK IN LAS VILAS» CUBA, ON 33 HARCH a42b-
IS A LONG TINE ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVIST AND SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE
CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION, oh pena ben Bete
°
E bbe JORGE Ke 2b ANOS ane PROBABLY IDENTICAL - WITH JORGE LINCOLN s
: 20h 2I7E I] Ors nov f
S CANOSA WHO WAS BORN IN SANTIAGO DE CUBA ON 2UeSEFTENBER, 393%.
ITED BY THIS AGENCY IN HARCH 1963 TO PARTICIPATE IN THE

HE HAS NOT BEEN USED BY. THIS AGENCY IN ANY
RAS, “WAS BEEN ACTIVE IN

IN JANUARY ibs HE |

WAZARTO

j
1

i
|
aye

_ WAS BAS RECRU:
, BAY OF PIGS INVASION.
BOPERATIONAL CAPACITY SINCE THE BAY OF Pres.
REPRESENTATION IN EXILE {RECE? GROUP.
AS THE SUBJECT OF A DEPARTEMENT OF JUSTICE INQUIRY REGARDING CER-
‘AIM "INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN A HIT-AND-RUN RAID CONDUCTED IN THE.

HAVANA HARBOR AREA IN NOVEMBER 25b5-4

THE CUBBAN

t

POA NP eRe el gies Rees



98, Mitts. as

Sel CUTGOING MESSAGE.

Ee, COTS a8
7 -_ - - = = =
ov 5 8 © -09 Go 8
secret
CIA Hes a ciacea a
com: wero: mae “LTO =  omaannat Se
‘ : O emem me :
Aone S099 0 ome 8

ao S* a? ee PEREZ FRANCO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JUAN EDUARDO :
Pere? Wares 24 24 bis BORN IN HAVANA ON 28 JANUARY 3925. PEREZ ;
~ RECEIVED PARARILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN LATE 3960 AND.
| WAS ACTING EW THE B2SDb BRIGADE. AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH PEREZ 7”
WAS TERMINATED IN JANUARY 29b2-4 . cet oy :
i das erent” Yoo” Is “PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH. THE FREDDY LUGO WHO
“AAS ARRESTED IN 397b INS CONNECTION WITH THE CUBANARATRLINER CRASH.Y °
rp Wp @trnan LOZANO 7 PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH GERMAN RICARDO
LOZANO WA® WAS ARRESTED AL2NG UITH FREDDY LUGO IN 297b.¥ :
“20, Wars AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO, POSITIVELY IDENTIFY
PERNANS® RAAT BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORNA~
TION . at gg5b0{
+ Os GENERAL JUAN NEPOMUCENO f LCH PEREZ. AIR ADYISOR TO THE
EXECUTENE BRRANCHs WAS BORN IN PUERTO PLATA. DONZWICAM REPUBLIC,
ON 3 AU@UST Anau.  FOLCH HAS SERVED AS SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE
DONENEGAN ATR FORCE AND MORE RECENTLY AS AIR FORCE CHIEF OF STAFF.
3N Late WAY 3972 USDAO. SANTO DOMINGO. REPORTED THAT eur cprer
OF THE GUBAN NATIONAL POLICE. GENERAL lt wetted “nda HAD |



OUTGOING “tESSAGE

bona. conse wet o>

Soa Edam noma emo eed meet See
onr 6 o 0 0 t) 3 t)
—s
SsECRE

cance macs exmeeut eno _

ftto0
08o BO aoe Dissem BY:

cour: ero: LE . 0 om

Danese PER

: Dens ¢
VISITED THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN AN EFFORT TO SELL. TO THE

DOMINICANS, ARMAMENT AND SPARE PARTS FROM A UsS.-BASED FIRA BRICK
BENITEZ WAS REPRESENTING. BENITEZ HAD CONTACTED THO DOMINICAN :

+ GENERALS. ONE OF THEM BEING FOLCH. USDAO CONNENTED THAT FOLCH'S —
ASSOCIATION wItH CUBAN EXILES AND ARMS SALESNEN HAD BEEN THE
SUBJECT OF PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE DURING V2 AND THAT FOLCd WAS
ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED, WITH MILITANT CUBAN EXILE GROUPS. SUCH AS "ALPHA

# bbs” DURING 3ab2-19b3-¥
BB. ACCORDING TO . USUALLY RBMELTABLE SOURCE, TW LATE DECEMBER
245 ONE varezure Fah ans IDENTIFIED AS A WENGER OF A RIGHTIST GROUP ;
WHICH WAS ORGANZZED TO COUNTER THE SPREADING OF INFLUENCE BY FORMER
 M@QNSTITUTIONALISTS” IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. . THE GROUP WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR PLACING PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE AT THE GRAVESITE OF Ut.
COLONEL RAFAEL qonaS FERNANDEZ, DOMINGUEZ IN SANTIAGO, DOMINICAN
“REPUBLIC. IN RID-DECENBER 2065 TH. AN APPARENT ATTEMPT TO MURDER
“COLONEL FRANCISCO Ganano beh8? Ho uAs ATTENDING A CEREMONY IN
"HONOR OF FERNANDEZ. THE GRROUP WAS UNSUCCESSFUL IN TTS ATTEMPT TO i
DETONATE THE EXPLOSIVE-¥ :

ES



Te eel ne
cla
cone: ero: mus MIT OE ah Y= et fell mst |
fee tee : .
ne a 6 A
yp ee7ee~ bene eft 2 4
23. FRANK cxerat TS PROSABSLY IDEKTICAL WITH DR- FRANK CABRAL q ’
CALCAGNO WHO BAS BORN IN SANTO DOMINGO. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. ON 7
+ & FEBRUARY 2942. CABRAL SERVED AS CIVILIAN. ADVISOR TO PRESIDENT” ilitiae! Westtigiaets
JOAQUIN BALAGUER FROM 3970 UNTIL HIS ARREST IN LATE JUNE 3974 AS A cetiee
RESULT OF THE. DISCOVERY OF NUMEROUS WEAPONS AND TELTAP EQUIPMENT IN Hu}

WIS HOME. CABRAL HAD USED HIS RESIDENCE AS A CENTER OF CEPERATIONS
WHILE. RUNNING HIS OWN INTELLIGENCE NETWORK. CABRAL UASRSENT INTO

# EXTLE AND RETURNED TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FROM SPAIN IN JULY 275+.
© | WE HAS SERVED AS SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE DISSIDENT FACTION OF THE Do
oem @UISGUEYAN PARTY tpgD9;¥ ee

_ Bs, MAJOR JUAN POU CASTRO. HORE COMMONLY REFERRED TO AS JUAN
PoUs JUNIOR, TS PROBABLY IDENTICAL UITH THE BROTHER OF MAJOR JOAQUIN
-antonto Sour€ fasteos | SSS*d ADDITIONAL BIOGRAPHIC BRDATA
ON JUAN POU. HOVEVER, HIS BROTHER JOAGUIN, UHO WAS BORN’ IN SANTO
“BONINGO ON 2 MARCH 3935, GAINED NOTORIETY BY “RNEUTRALIZING"
“TERRORISTS WHEN HE WAS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SPECIAL OPERATIONS GROUP.
“RELITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTION {J-2} OF THE Neath ARMED FORCES .4

@Se IN APRIL. 29bb OWE oa PAULING" REVE: E)LEONs WHO TS



OQUIGUING MESSAGE ©

- seme, cone wor cans
i = _-—

onr 0 o 0 o o 0 8 ’
ne
SECRET
esccan wean moons eon meme eeneces es eee
. era i
cour wero: ras Sood | Di ceeebdiresheererintet :
i: O ance i
2D: een PER P deereeteie
. : $ ,
PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE REVES MENTIONED Ww REFERENCES us" ONE. : '
DONTNGO ‘

T
OF BERCE DOMINICAN MILITARY OFFICERS WHO WAS CALLED TO SANTO
‘D ABOUT HTS INVOLVEMENT IN THE ALLEGED ‘PLOT TO

- To BE QUESTIONE
ASSASSINATE GENERAL JOSE ‘honzi LO. PREVIOUS INFORMATION FROM 39bS aon

INDIBCATES THAT JOSE PAULING REYES DE LEON, WHO WAS BORN ON Ss may

3932 IN LA VEGAs, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. WAS COMMANDER oF THE NATIONAL

POLICE IN SAN FRANCISCO. DE. HACORIS-¥
ef’ FBIS ITEN FROM JULY 19bb IDE!
€ wine LOPEZ AS AN AIDE WITH THE INTER-AMERL
i NOMADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON ROJAS LOPEZ
| source WAS NOT POSITIVE THAT ROJAS ATTENDED :

NTIFIES ONE CAPTAIN FELIPE e
CAN DEFENSE BOARD-
| ESE |

‘

THE MEETING.3¥ ewer!
“27. ONE MAJOR DARTO Le DIAZ GIL.
ER land IS A MENBER OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE

Ho WAS BORN IN THE DOMINICAN

 epuBLIC OW 17 DECENE

~ PARACHUTE BRIGADE-¥ men MDE ae

2. ANA, MARGARE Al fe \WINDT a THE WIFE OF EULALTO feanerse
APRANK) CASTRO PAZ.¥ : :

_ BA. TN MAY. 2977 OUR!

sicwnarae

a2 | IMPORT
eb ey: goquan



OUTGOING MESSAGE

ena: caeras inn en. nuit

Peter erin taerhh eee
Ca | *
plod tase
SECRET i
Sacnes Gene maresten peeacteerecees
cia :
q coms: ero: rus .-uSoso.: ema Leemreatde :
2) ae . D kenmce PER : ‘
or: Oienn # ,

UINFRED E. HODGEN AS THE PARTNER OF FRANK CASTRO- ‘ 7
ADVISED THAT IN EARLY 1977 HODGEN GAVE A PHOKY. CHECK.FRON A BIANT sieidcetosteenirasiay

~ BANK IN THE ANOUNT: OF 23,000 TO A DOMINICAN MONEY, CHANGER {FNUD :
SANTANA. SANTANA STATED THAT HE HAD CHANGED "SBBMANY MANY® DOLLAR | ane t

. CHECKS INTO DOMINICAN PESOS FOR HODGEN/CASTRO AND. THISUEE WAS THE
: FIRST PHONY CHECK. SANTANA ALSO SAID HE BELIEVED HODGEN WAS HIDING -

IN GUATENALA-¥ ace nay
IT IS BELIEVED THAT, THE FAA MAY wlRovrrtona PERTINENT

INFORMATION ON UINFRED E. HODGEN.¥ ae :
: : “30. ADDITTONAL NF pRNATION DEVELOPED oy THIS, AGENCY ON oN EUALTS
* FRANCISCO CASTRO pate ROLANDO OTERO, “eenanoez, ORLANDO Bosch chee
AND GUTLLERMO woh SAMPOL HAS BEEN FORWARDED TO YOU IN PREVIOUS
CORRESPONDENCE.¥ wo

Bb. THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS ACAUTRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO rts |
~ RESPONSIBILITY POR THE COLLECTION OF INTELLIGENCE ON FOREIGN ASPECTS.
“oF, INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY. THES INFORMATION SHOULD No? BE.
s BURTHER DISSEMINATED UETHCUT PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH. THIS AGENCY.
; BR. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-d+2-4

Swrmnacm CMON
ae IMPDET H
Ct BY! guquag



| BUCS SRG anaes

i
i
:

i
i
74
\
i

ca

i

fone. cowrve wes ome

SECRET
pandihealiain ay :
*
cour. we: un S009 Fam seer '
D cme PER

x

7 Boome
"RB CODE" TO FOLLOWING! B203-O2924yy CSOTO-HAVET)«: 202-D2s4S0S

CABALLERO). 203-029433S CALONSCUMNIOLY. 202-NE24598 CFRANCOD 2D3- :
OBS33b7 {TEIRAD. 203-03932267 CAGUALAD. 203-0258826 {BLANCOs 203-
O355380 {NAZARIO}, 2032-02973? {hayy, 203-0285794 PEREZ. 203-03SS003
{FOLCHD. 203-0878309 {CABRAL« BQA-DwULP? LPOUs JOAQUIND. INDEXt |
MAJOR DARIO Le DIAZ GIL\ WINFRER E. HODGEN, AND ANA HARGARITA DE
WINDT. WIFE OF CASTRO PAZ {20\-0%V9E5>. : ;

ORTG: LAZAN/CH {| XBO3NDA COORD: Cyaan (—*dFA C/LACAR
{9s Crarcos {Pn age aE’ 8 cruarors <——s
SAC/LA {DS AUTH? CYLAD QWARRENDS REL? C/PCS/LSN/ID

ROLAZAN
ROL AsCHAL

BPrrrascoe

, BO OCTOBER 3977

CAZANTCH : :

3034 et

CLERERLRSN7ED - SAARRRAN omene a yd :
easeomiras : A xk imboer
BECRET PC Moo |

ca ed



mare Sere 7 rane aaa
LBs Ya, pb BY EPs/ecF 2y/38, 3

" slocee

eae OCT 79 URTEL.

"CIeWs Casmms STA/Ss SUks STA/TCs PES/ITC~a,

Pest as

Tuiteledzaz scr 77

Se3zz

“orgs DiRESTER,

‘

WM INTEL: INTE

SUPDATAL

FILED!

i)

“SOURCES mKRAPJER/AKRAPIEReS FROM SUBJECT OF

>}

333806 OD DbvECTIVE! Jude Cin’ AGED)

aia ASB XKXKX

“FILE DEFERRED, NO INDEX, CL BY 035233,

ebCRET

.

CROSS FILH CON 6G}
BOM EZ PRI Re
po at Drath



= a
oT EN STON ES NCT PRL Peacuatee RE : resend
?

RET

d er 1a am :

Bavaces

WOT RELEABABLE TO CONTAASTORS DA CONTRACTOASCONSUL TEATS.
COunTay =

aa”
SUSVECT

, Hleceiaecteerea

Intell Higence Information Cane :
ww agntac ® 3830?

7 ec. BOTLOR

Lmplbale INTELUICERSE ECR AAD METHOSS DAO VED si

» Rat ae Kb et San ems en aoe tas ont oe Baim Pat Peers

wo ee OF {ly/ Tas) STIL FRE SECuR ait ee
baw Spee PE eee te ee c ’

URE DISSEMINATION AND USE Ot Tes BHORmI NOM SULECT IO |
CONTADLE STATED a BEGINS AND ENS OF abrCa!

os “DE VOBER. 3979 -

TAG Be Sk E TeeesRyING NOVI Coen Send EV IVE INTER IGERTE i n

and RETRODS “Wesiuverenot RELEs5aGE TS POMEL SN NAT Sona Ee

VENECVEL asCuaa
RATE SEPTENIER 2977 3 .
EFFORTS SY PROMINENT VENERVELANS TO ENSURE pwrantiay,
_CDNSIDERATION OF Tne CASE AGalnsT Cuban EXILE LEADER

ORLANDO BOSCH Tenia if

OIN GATE SEPTEMBER 1977 A GROUP OF PROMINENT VENEBUELANS
TH PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES P eR E a To DISCUSS THE
“348% AGAINST CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOS ¢ we WHO IS =,
“GURAENTLY. IHPRISONED IN VENEZUELA IN. CONNECTION WITH THE
‘DETDBER 4976 BOMBING OF A TUBANA AIRLINER, AND T0-SPEAK- IN
eoScKi Ss BEALE walle WOT SOLICITING PREFERENTIAL TREATHENT

SECRET


pee

& *34357
WEIS ZELS- 77

WASKe ROTKE t

SEASITINVE WVELUICEMCE RACKS abd METIS DAOLVED vost 2 OF cases arin
SECRET oe olde CxiSteem st On and USE OF tosh eS Obese ‘waect A : °

> fH SOND BATES AT Camere and but OF BEPORT eras

scaspaeenon |

. nee . ome ame

“ROE BDDTHe Vey EAE ATTENAT 1G THREES -yogu tag OMGSIDERT Test
Fad Chae SmUULS SE MONDLED UNEMUTECRASLY Om 115 weST Elon MEGIVG,
a$ pant or ‘yet ARGUNGAT TG UAOUP REMINDED REST ENT BERGE
TAT DOBEM OND IG FAMILY oD DEEN MELPF UL TO MEMBERS. GF tnd :
pendcnatic ACTION BARTY(AD) wnéW Thi oERE FORCED TO LIVE IN :
ore IN Cyiay : : a
cent WADA A fo mH
Sol US FULLY aware OF Tre: RAMIFICATIONS OF

THE BOSCH CASE, FURTHERMORE, TE PRESIDENT BAD THaT AEDING |
18 AORKING WTR THE SUPREME COUNT AND OTHER YUDICI AL AuraoaL Ties
° 10 EXPEDITE THE RESOLUTION. OF THE BOSCH AFFALR,

a 3. THOSE ATTENDING. ThE MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT INCLUDE
ANTONIO 'D Ths 2 MARTINGZ,. memMBER OF ae BOARD OF DIRECTORS

TOF PETROVENT ANTONIO LE 1D EN Eyl FORMER MINISTER OF LABOR
AND AN AD MEMBER? LUIS AL V-4 RE 3! DOMINGUEZ, MINISTER OF
“DEVELOPMENT: ANG JOSE Vv A-# GA S, PRESIDENT OF THE CONF EDERA®
oTHON OF VENEZUELAN WORKERS, a8 :
he DISSEM!, EMBASSY, FBL . : word
PORT CLASS S © CR E TeWARNING NOT] Cee SENSITIVE LTELUTGENCE
“ SUURSES-AND' METHODS INVOLVEDeNOT RELEASMELE 10 FOREIGN NATIONALS#
“NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.

peesseeten: BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.
SECRET



se gente nif ee dnd BARTERI CLOTSIP TY SSE TEER RIN IID

as 2 2 2 au

OO OUCETENT FatOee hn

“OM OD OAK GENERAL CECADINATON CE INE =
pecovengeromes MOVEMENT OF FRE MEVG LUTE CN OY nn cee reer



666468 seacera oye tnt ey

i; 6m

Yoar3e2 1309 oye 17 -d DHE :

ttt VO) BIAECTOR, Lavmtamy,
WINTER INTEL kg an

Suedatas

GAWAHOO FOR LasMt ant COMMENTS ON Paha Oy DErER 10

nO Ov O1SSEM | sources serie
WRAPLERSS FROM wove] MP 087

OD OBJECTIVE! Jide -NO INDEX, Pate

FILEDS §«Sseze47a.

DEPEARED. CL sy e3siss,



Babatns MOTE
GEMAITAT MTUIESACE LOL OFES 4nd CeTTNODS BOLTED

Ts Csfhoong mpat Gqmmaed ben » (i told cuted soqure tomne othe the Ovecerws of Opsetam bolas beng and s
se es ee are tee cee eee oeet snap Doar aterm 7
*[PhARMINATON OAD EXTRACTION GF ENTURMATION CONTROLLED By OMCINATOR eae
| DasTIUTIAN Te bla nein)

agroer Case 6 ‘ ¢ RG VoomsAnInG NOTECECSENSE VIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES and ng 1008 INVOLV EDONOT AELEASAGLE TO FORE GN WaT donaLse
WOT AELEASADLE TO CONTMACTORS OR CONTRACTORS CONSULTANTS,
COUNTRY! VENERVEL A/CUGA /NETHERL ANDS ANTILLES
bots Lave avoust 3977 : a 1

oe :

“ aGat i : FIELD NO. HVC077S8

___[weSSase wate was BEING SMUGGLED INTO THE
PRISON CELL OF ORLANDO 6 6S C He WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER
BeTENT ION IN VENEZUELA IN-CONWECTION WITH THE 6 GCTOGER 1976
BOMBING OF A CUBANA ALRLINER, THE FOLLOWING I8 THE TEXT OF .
“THE NOTE! i ; : fe og
“S) “WACTEVITIES SUSPENDED, WE AWAIT INSTRUCTIONS.
seCRET



oO

i ORS

z WAKING SOTICE :

i ‘SARSITWE INTELLICEDCE SUES 42D WETIONS INVOLVED vaGe 2 OF F 9068S
‘SECRET FURIES OSsNATION AND USE OF Tes BECEMATION SURECT TO

COMIBOAS STATED AT BEGe@ENG. AND ED OF BEPORT

i 1.4m GOING TO CURACAO, MEETING TO GE WELD THE

\ TWENTIETH, OMAHL® :

| 8, Tae agove REFERENCE 7.6 CURACAO REINFORCES THe

| geLaer BY Sone VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES THAT CURACaG IS

| BECOMING A STAGING. AREA POR CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITIES.

". AGCORDING TO INFORMATION RECELVED GY VENG2UELAN AUTHOR IT 1680
CUBAN EXILE LEADERS FROM THE UNITED STATES HAVE RECENTLY
WADE FREQUENT TRIPS TO CURACAO, FURTHERMORE: CUBAN EXILE

MEETINGS HAVE OF LATE TAKEN PLACE AT THE PARK AND INTER=

NATIONAL HOTELS IN CURACAO. MOREOVER, A STORE KNOWN aS THE

“eALMACEN AMERICANO” IN CURACAO I$ BEING USED TO MASK SOME ;

“VPE OF CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITY. : fae

| EMBASSY. FBI . pera

REPORT CLASS SEC R E TeeWARNING NO-TICE*SEN SI ThVe INTELLIGENCE

"SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED*NOT RELEASAGLE TO FOREIGN NATLONALS@

NOT RELEASAGLE TO CONTRACTORS GA CONTRACTOR/CONSUL TANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. .xGDS*2.



eresiienroy iets of..

Aone ie memeae

oe eltions} aeé, re Slt tieera el eres ct
a tesa aa 43, CHesfreg. :

Sas deafe, ofa, # hs of (iat Te asaias :
TORN Gavaae 2eC %

SEe wet soreser 06 re srare 5 Heetubae | SS
chs a Ai ae f wly a
OV ormecron, | eetee =e
WHYS YE, GHEP mms? xe % Bcc
SRS: a, DIRECTOR o5ss26
OF ener ae “0 de
“As Ewristey mer wiTH Covomer usINO Kun a x “amtame >
Gen DAYS AGO, TOOK TACK DESCRIBED Pana § REF 8 (Sans menTr OW
OF Wayon wONTES), SalD HE
MAF rw trove.

WAS WORRIED GUZMAN WOULD GET KIM@
GUZMAN WAS VERY CONCERNED» TALKED apour
WRETINGS OF CUBAN EXILES WHICH HAD TAKEN PLACE SANTO DOMINGO,
. Wt WAS NOT LEAR ON WHICH OF THESE MEETINGS WE PERSONALLY
At¥eoeD, FOLLOWING IS INFORMATION PROVIDED By. BURMAN oun
“fe” ONE OF THE MEETINGS ATTENDED BY MAJOR ONTES IN SANTO
wee IN EARLY NOVEMBER 1976 TOOK FLACE IN THE WOME OF 4 FORMER
SENATOR IN THE BATISTA GovERNNENT ino LIVES IN SaNT? DOMINGO,

NEM iste: FORGOT THE NAME. HE IS CERTAIN IT WAS NOT SANTIAGO

“EY PeRNa.). nonres CAME TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC TO: GET: DOMINICAN
“WP ORT FOR tHE "CRUSADE AGAINST CASTRO, © MONTES SAID THAT: CUBAN
pall tated etl
WARE IN tHE DOMINE CAN REPUBLIC, rk
See V9, Bavi-o 86773 201.
a Bee 4P Saar ostriil Secagr nn tee
Wize aAWe mb iano yd :

TOGETHER WITH DOMINECAA

ante



PS na ane er ee

4

mimovuet wotoas i ee COT ;
jc Cu gt gaa g ea bcos ee : Se
Of Tem ote? a2 -

te 332225
_ MeMrredecet cee 7 | Eno rece
OND CIVILTONS ORE WILLING Ue Cegeg

a. 8 i
: "Oe THE LbANGON man GEreg gy ve carves oe ayyue AouPs was,
WMD PEANOPE STILL 18e wan Con von anromscee’d a fo tenet gros
GOV THE SHOREDSION PRAT LIVES Bn mame .
Co AY ONE MEETING COUMING HR pERTOD ORLANDO BOSCH KAS RESIDING
WH SANTO DOWINGOD. THE CARYL CLANS spoce OF PLacING BMGs ON CUBR |
AIRCRAFT AND IW CUBAN’ DLOLOMAT LG MhBgioNS. SABOTAGING CUBAN AND SOVIET
Su1PG. THEY TALKED OF KIBNAOBING tHe CUBAN ANGAgSADOR TO THE UNITED
WATLONS IN ORDER 10 EFFECT Yue RELEASE OF POLICTICAL PRISONERS AND
DISCUSSED KILLING CARLOS Maroc, & Roricue 7 "AN IMPORTANT

CUBAN FUNCTIONARY IN LISBON". BECAUSE HE IS CONTRIBUTING TO Wemover
RELATIONS SETWEEN THE UNITED STATES ann cuss.

1, Be DISCUSSED AT THE Same wseting waS THE Fact THAT SECRETARY
oF STATE KISSINGER MET IK ELTHER WExkieO OR COSTA RICA Mite "AN

. IWPORTANT FIGURE IN THE QUBAN GOVERNMENT NAMED. HART" (PROBABLY
* gawanno # ART DAVALOSD,

KUSSENGER waS LABELED a TRAITOA AND PLANS
WERE DISCUSSED °C ASSASE DNateE

PERSON GAARGEE ive SoRRE Nats

SEH IN SAN UOSE, CosTA RICA,»

3 YetS action was eETES (25

Rake y ved (EMT EOE ge

BS vanrisez SEsrces Ih vtards

“STATION AS TEASE CN UNG BEDARD vas

Finge, Cusan ete Sab Ebert



end os

teb.8 wr bene

oy

etee2e sc 8on OS ame
basmnepaiiathoe ad

crore wt earoae.

en | ea ae
Cara

vee | 06GE 6S ~~ eta,

e ToRtyeze22z2 DEC 76

WHO WORKS FOR VICINT FAMILY IN SANTO DOMINGO.) THE PLAN WAS NT
een TED out DECAUSE °C IAP OUKD OUT* AND Cam tnpgaTaNT EXILES,
MANOLO RE VEG CHO LIVES IN HIAMID, OBJECTED AnD. THREATENED 10,
© ADVISE HIS FRIEND, CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR RONALD REGAN,

E+ “AMONG THE PARTICIPANTS IN THE MEETING DEScaIEES IN
SuBePARAS C AND fe ABOVE, br Ve can DOMINICAK AY8 FORCE
GENERAL SaLvapOR t bu 0 3 H non lase AIR FORCE COLoXE, Kentu
- wossreLy coLoner wus D1 StS “ionev, COMMANDER -OF, The
NORTHERN ZONE. OR GENERAL Evacig a ARHOLEY 4 s ABFZue

COMMANDER oF SAN ISIDRO AIR BASE, bath 1s 5 Coane VERv ZL0SE Te
GENERAL LLUBERES), CUBAN EXILE JUAN ® € a gz FRANCO Noe CLEAR
WHERE WE LIVES), AN ARGENTINE NaNED RAUL one RUBEN wt NDER
PHONETIC). DOMINICAN FERNANDG » rari AE ess tou TRENT CAL
“ETH RIGHT 581, YABOR LEADER WHO 1S BELIEVED TO BE U.S. CITIZEN)»
OSE § AD URRY CPHONETIC. CITIZENSHIP UNKNOWN) + AnD

ui poet, Pez aonvos aba, CRE LAST NAME,

Toe ASK EMCLIPPER@4 TC CHECK ON POSSIBLE TRAVEL TO DOMENS CAN

REPUBLIC OF LUIS POSADA KO hag ARRESTED BY VENEBL Bas ‘ dk

o TAAT INE, te Belices,



mates a gov

tote Comes 256

tom 0+ oteee Haan

ereweewe
t Secret | SUrRS Groce @ eaomeTeD

eicitige : ‘
i
co
PAGE G4-86 IW 832325
a i ‘
| Bnie4 : TOR3620222 DEC 76 Se
i - re
' ;
| BADURRI. ‘ eae | - t
- 4 3. UNDEKS GUZMAN, ‘MONTES, “PRAT. “MARTINEZ, REVES, BSs | fe
|, QLUBERES. ABREU. PEREZ, BLINDER. MUNIZ, BADURRI. FILE 22-09-26 - | i
i Beteagoze2. : : Hee

{; e2 IDET - ous : : mage



fate PEE Sec lain net

nes sncre:
stagoee 2 oe
Wretare 2 meee et
farcayna
way VES
wrens,
Carta temems ae fbe0 nO

Tm ee ara rae haat

gery ces wer ine Aw
Bdrrensirarone: vashegion
fhensohey,

‘The saca of Orlendo Bosch
(AT: Octoner 25)

Tra case ot the anui-Castro tetrorst
leader atrose nexwu'n reponeaiy

extends tro. Mian o¢ep into Latin
most bizare:

about Ono 5>
both the Sep:emrer 21
slaying in Waerington al former
Civiean ambassador Orlanso Leretier
and ine Octozer 6 crasnof a Cuban
Birbre jet mat c:simed the l'ves of all 73.
persons atoard. Venezuelan
authorites suddaniy announced the:
arrest of the <S-year-vid Miami ,
pediarician anc old CiA h2nd on
Octeder 14. Since shan, the veil of
intrigue arounc Bosch hes begun
iting, tweaten'ng to implicate the CIA,
FBI, Miarrésnased Cuban exiles and
Righrankung ottycians of Venezuela and

Rstibegan when Caracas
police rounded u;: 14 anti-Casirc
‘Cubsne—inc'ucing Sosch and
Veremue'a's oven tormer security,
ohvel..ans accused inam ot
Inwoleriiet 16 6 rerrorist ting. =
psTsit-€ for “ne. Lesoliar
ausasenatic and ine Cuban plane
sahorage Futter attacks inthe U.
and $0 Lata nations ware said ohne
been planed, :

Tie next dav, speaking at a
mags tungsal ray in Havana (or the
Cunen plana ctasn victims, Caste
Accused she Cié ef aching &
GaMpA.A? nat nad conullad in nine
Inewiants ageing: Cupan diptortis
miasions ang ite natal gitline wivcw
Apri Ineratara, he suinouncug, ha:
WE ANG HHg INA IH7S CuDGS
antitnjareie agrannien |, Carlie wine
Paniwn a vane gueinn suinton
Premiarite Bitar 4), ea CIA myer whe
had Intanny: ne Cuban altlinen'y
esti segrny Komen pertly
Worn ary AS Cennypccnt .

Thy bach 344, wet te ig eth
Guana to eh Uh palak

aussie

Peete tin BLEED etal et

Ried Roe o ter Wie obtain?
wet bes

petag tetra ate
wre sre

mnvererue"

tac Cubun erue crete
were Werdiieed ob Btstnaty SR GEC
We Letewen buen

‘Tram, on Octooet 22, tree US

eurnists arte Vane just tD@
Gane Trane w.tha qiaup ot

P06 2d Dine cuts. One of the:
Lc S— HESé Inter of ine Mian.
News —tecuw ied a man qeeng Ihe
Fonaz on Fucatdo (ine
Monkey) Morales Navrnaile—a former
(CA agent and FBI ntorman in Mam
wi.0 6s loday the numbertwonwnin
Verezucia’s intetizence service.

Ge

When the reporters tried to
interview Moratos —addregsing hits by
fis trun narne ~in front of hic tallow
security oiheers, ne: became: oullaged
and piac: 32 the:
After being held incommunicade tor
10 how's, Inclan, Taylor Branch of
quite, snd iro«-iancar John Rotneetuld,
wate forcentty «af

ctifiaw ants Vthington
emimat with Site Dopainnuct eticiale
fend joer m a weittant format prota,
(ite Venetian Gavatingnt ca iad
he Anigticars jiiealinie’ chargue,)
‘Notiorfy win tthe what Isa
Monwia—-atel ote ila a ulhict
fate AMO Clb dim pnBrMe T
Hyrd aul igh satan in thoe
Yona udlets qawcnsiiend, Dat Tile anach
sumtin lent tho Mavic lla, tneh
A her tee, lonsemert bevy ee etn
Kuru, Men

tia CUA eg ncttiye

Covarercnes te ur

hewren: anaty earerst ve 1
eu e cewtend fet DOEH.
Ole eri SiwEe of ate
ite EWS Naa?
wteretec ht Che ors
Ae the fogntewnn me itarg jar Devtet

Thatta Suites Sev that Mure aed
te Verezue 51. reer hon
‘thats coum that I7ntiias hat mate
heave win bosen

Merariatu'e Busct’s tate remain
UR we lixe ait, He was ar eSIeS ONZE
beter in Venere, Hoty 0 gam:
release and tes.m.e tis hermesy se wstK
wanderng Lali Anesican
governments are sArd to tcar resriDwn
ithe cteaied harshly. fuepresatcatves
of we Cacobean gaverrinents,
including Cuba, have aesemret in
Trinidad to ci.cuts jursciction (re
US hes sounht his ealte-ttion an mie
parc‘a-jumping charze).

Guatdart by heavily-armet
pecurdy men, Bosch appeared
October 22 n a Venezue'zn countcom
to deny any imclvement in tie airplane:

. Sabotage or the Letelia: murder. As |

ties of “assassin” echoed outside,
Bosch was asked ithe was 3 CIA
agent He decli-ad to answer.

—Dicn Russe

Rainel &:
Baey .

Beyond loose shoes.

AUS, font surgeon hes salurned from
8 16-vour stint in (rip and Africa
convinced thet ong beraioo: protects
foat. The surgeon, Pui Brand,
echnowladgus that people have: to
wour hoes to work, but he Rays it
Amaticana want baraloct at hore they
probably would never criveloy comit,
‘bumons, Rammeiat tat", o'tdele f. fee oF
Ingrown toonsiy-—ptlitioes ha to ich
nonexistent in barotoni projiulavans
Ovarea
Braid, wits tunctans onttnrtentic
Autgary at Louininna Binty, told th 4
month's Ariticnn College of Bluse 200
trgeting in Ghiewgu that a abed fet
(era lecbn rn rican Mgt
taywiranineant wnt teatiunlly bene
‘neniativily, mesbvity ana! ities 1
steers: Thee petty pens: wees
Writs Laretlont bien inh aati yt



: wes ccameese
ar a -
onr 9 6 a a

eee

stecretr
tot mee eed am Menem aanetns aries -
Stare, 2a200n2 DIRECTOR | Ape

cone: PAB wwe: ta A/a, Lk, AT, EAS g =
: ¢n ; 0904, AGL AICO, Arsh ie, 2 Ene ae

Lssho, web, ches rege 060196, PSEC RX” py de pe

Tor, red b le ee os

i
\
:

h h b hl : 1

ev

FOO MARY ACTIGiS ¢ 5
DHINTEL REAM MMSPIRE MHPROSE.Y GEE res oO ADA 1

REFt. DIRECTOR 501b0 {SENT h bh h

FYE tales LA/NIAMT ONLY. NOT NEEDED a OTHERS? v
Us, RECENT REPORTS FRON SENSITIVE FBI SOURCE DESCRIBE INCREASED
AGGRESSIVENESS AND COORDINATION ON BART OF CERTAIN ANTI=CASTRO CUBAN \ i
| EXILE ORGANEZATIONS. ONE OF NEVEST “AND HOST UNIFIED Groups s ‘CALLED. ye
*COORDINACION DE. ORGANIZACIONES REVOLUCIONAKTAS UNIDAS” {COORDINATION
OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS = CORUD. ALSO PREVIOUSLY RE- | St

PORTED REF AS “EVERCITO SECRETO ANTICONUNISTA’ LATINO~ANERTCANO on
{SECRET LATIN-ANERICAN ANTI-CONMUNIST ARMY = LACAD. FOLLOWING IS eo i
AVAELABLE INFORMATION ON CORU AND BRIEF BACKGROUND ON THE FIVE EXILE :
ee "ORGARTZATIONS IT EMBRACES: ¥

: Ac @BRO°RAME CORU WAS FORMED AT A HEETENGs HELD SANTO
- DOMINGO ON 20-23 UUNE 297% OF REPRESENTATIVES FROM PIVE ANTI-CASTRO :

EXILE QRGANTZATIONS! ACCION CUBANA CACHS FRENTE DE LIBERACION
- DATRY : see eestte

" quesuouten eormese. Oe ee
faPRBBUCTION OTHER THAN THE laGUInG OFFICE APRGHIITES =f IMPDET

Gb BV gasaa,

op menage a gt
ge a og fg cms sma meng GPP ae rere emnomE



VU PRUE? mice

= weacceee te QD
peseehromiyhe_ir

onr 8 a i o c o 3 2 4
plekneprens ;
SECRET ae : : : *
eencses eons eee eeroemneane ay etesses resins nee :
TAFE : DIRECTOR “¢ a

conr: wo: mus PI070% + sesrecisteree f

Dionne #& a
MACIONAL DE CUBA <FLNCPS MOVINIENTO NACIONALISTA Nae {ANCES

As
BRIGADE es0by bal platens 37 DE ABRIL {M-27-A}. RATHER Loosety .

ne nn ETT
“

FORMED FEDERATION. V EHESE FIVE GROUPS» CORU HAS. NO sipaate NENBERSHIP
OF ITS OUN AND HAS BEEN- REFERRED TO IN PRESS AS."ORU." EACH NEMBER
GROUP IS TO HAVE ITS OWN MILITARY CHIEF WHOSE PRESS RELEASES CON- H
CERNING TERRORIST ACTIONS BY HIS “ORGANIZATION WILL BE GIVEN TO THE ;
FUNC PROPAGANDA CHIEF. WHO IN TURN WILL CLAIN CREDIT FOR SUCH ACTIONS :
IN THE NAME OF CORU- TWO. COVER ORGANIZATIONS ACTERRORIST CELLS} WERE
FORMED TO CARRY OUT AND CLAIN CREDIT FOR ANTI@CASTRO TERRORIST ACTI-

_oWITZES IN THE UNITED STATES BENEFICIAL TD CORUt JOVENES DE LA

‘> ESTRELLA € YOUTH OF THE STAR} IN THE MIAMI, FLORIDA AREAS AND P-2Ms

: a NEW NAME TO REPLACE OMEGA 7. IN THE NEW YORK AREA. CORU BILL CON-

penn SUCH ACTIVITIES SO THAT CUBAN EXILES AND AMERICAN PEOPLE WILL NOt ,

CONDENN CORU BUT VIEW IT RATHER AS A LEGITIMATE ANTE-CASTRO UNIFIED ue

RONT FIGHTING CONMUNISN OUTSIDE AND CONDEMNING TERRORISM WITHIN THE :

joSe ROGELIO LO PE 2 AVALOs FORMER ‘SECURITY ‘curer OF FLNCs BILL ;

GE - tHe CORU SECURITY CHIEF. LOPEZ IS TO MAINTAIN SECURITY AND INSURE,

THAT. "LEAKS" DO NOT GCCUR- A STRICT POLICY OF CONPARTHENTATZON HAS

bares : . . ;

* @ntas

Sivensseetasaca |
oti eee :

Gee so PN : AER ER erat
atpnopucrie ‘VOTH THAN rhe isoUiNG ornica is naw
SECRET :

nceriaces
aa impPoeT
a Gem onse2s



ace

VU eevee
epee conten ute OG
we STE

Cr a nD

earenec ence

ee st

SECRET :

nstsey eee ne season an res ee ‘

{STAFF oe DIRECTOR =. At : i

: iz ais

eons ro: Fut 849070) + jinn balaeeiietoisete Henin

; arte O amen PER i ’

Done e |

BEEN STRESSED. TO PREVENT “LEAKS.” A’SO-CALLED "ZERO GROUP" VILL serial reece}

RANDLE EXECUTIONS OF “TRAITORS” SUCH AS FBI AND CIA SOURCES OF
INFORNATION- ORLANDO BO S CH AVILA PROPOSED THAT CORU ROUNT A

‘ _ , Be ACCION CUBANA {CUBAN ACTION - AC} ZS A SMALL TERRORIST :
: GROUP IN RIANI HEADED BY ORLANDO BO S CH AVILA. AC IS TO CONCEN~ :
a TRATE ITS EFFORTS AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO AND HIS ALLIES, ITH

* COLOMBIA, MEXICO, PANAMA SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED- GASPAR UTM INE z
“AKA GASPARITO? IS AC MILITARY CHIEF. THE MILITARY UNET TUICE HAS i
TTENPTED TO BLOW UP 4 CUBANA AIRLINES PLANE SINCE THE SANTO DOMINGO :
MEETING? A BORB PLACED ABOARD CUSAKA PLANE IN PANAMA, CIRCA ED-MUNE
“anh, WHICH DID.NOT EXPLODES AND BONB IN SUT?CASE: id (BE LOADED INTO
CUBANA PLANE IN KINGSTON, JAMAICAs ON 24 _ 2AFle WHICH EXPLODED aus’

\ CONCERTED EFFORT AGAINST A-COUNTRY, BE IT THE U-S- OR ANOTHER, IN | : :
1 WHICH A MEMBER. OR AN EXILED CUBAN PATRIOTIC COMBATANT: {NON-NENBER? . !
7 BECOMES gatuen Tuas PROPOSED THAT A DIPLOMAT FROM THAT COUNTRY WOULD ; i
|” PROMPTLY BE EIDNAPPED AND OFFERED FOR EXCHANGES SHOULD NO EXCHANGE i a
| OCCUR, THE DIPLOMAT WOULD BE PROMPTLY scan SO AS GAIN NATIONS® ; ‘ :
1 banded FOR CORU FUTURE SITUATIONS. ¥ . : : |: i
' :
H

Beaaaast commas “sanaaares sonete aaron aromas

 faaeereanan farioouerion av orn aan 7 sume SPR is pnowiaiTas: a a (MPDET
SECRET : Gb BY onua3a



Vein

Fan HE Lectern Manone Caen oe)
enr 8 o o G o i) a

peleeoens
SECRET

teases mene meneame need om enemas micanonct mesent
STAFF . DIRECTOR 0 .

comm; mo: MLE C2070 Lieamalite anata

BOTH THESE BOMBING EFFORTS-> ACCORDING TO MEXICAN REPORT
‘DATED @b JULY. CORU ALSO CLAINING AUTHORSHIP OF ATTEMPT TO KIDNAP
CUBAN CONSUL IN MERIDA. MEXICO ON 24 JULY-? ¥

€- FRENTE DE LIGERACION NACIONAL | DE cups tcua NATIONAL
: : LIBERATION FRONT - FLNC} IS ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN TERRORIST ORGANIZATION
WITH HEADQUARTERS IN MIAMI. ITS TEYULAR HEAD. FRANK CAS TR On
LIVES .IN SANTO DOMINGO, DOM. REP- GUSTAVO cas TILL O IS FUNC
RELITARY CHIEF» AND OSCAR ANGULO ‘Its PROPAGANDA CHIEF. FUNC 83
“REPORTEDLY IS.CONTINUING ITS NAVAL OPERATIONS {ATTACKS ON CUBAK’ AND
- RUSSIAN VESSELS ON THE HIGH SEAS}. AS WELL AS sonarncs oF connunzst
, COUNTRY EMBASSIES OUTSIDE THE U-S- ‘at THE SANTO DOMINGO HEETING
: CASTRO PROPOSED THAT FLNC CARRY OUT HARRASSING TACTICS AGAINST TARGET
COUNTRIES TO INCLUDE CALLS TO AIRLINES ADVISING. THAT BOMB IS ABOARD
PLANE IN PLIGHT SO AS FORCE EMERGENCY LANDING... ALSO PROPOSED WAS
ACTUALLY PLANTING A BOMG EVERY TEN.OR MORE HOAX CALLS. TO PREVENT
PARGET COUNTRY FROM DISTINGUISHING HOAX. PROM REAL THINGS PLACING
BOMBS ZN UNOCCUPIED AIRCRAFT SO AS PREVENT TNJURY INNOCENT PERSONS AND.

teehee hatiaalial _ _ | siintinabieeehtemillid
AEPRODUCTY’ WY OTHER THAN THE ISHUING OFFICE (6 PROF “me 28 IMPORT

ein Gh OY pagan,

Severed some meses pas ceme

 wwas Paced i
} BEPORE SUITCASE~SascER ON BOARD. {CORU REPORTEDLY’ CLAINED CREDIT FOR Sa

i
\
i
{



GARE OF Each cRoUP-

wt ttaer

DIRECTOR
P0207

Dome 8
AVGRR GIVING FIGHT AGAINST COnnUNISHE A BAD wane. “FRANK CASTRO

REPORHEDLY HAS ALREADY FORMED A TERRORIST GROUP IN VENEZUELA HEADED
GY BAL WORELTO ALVAREZ ECHEVARRETAs A CUBAN PHYSICIAN RESIDENT
CARACAR. ALVAREZ? GROUP PURPORTEDLY IS FORMED OF CUBAN EXILES. SOME
OF WAR UcS.. CITIZENS. FLNC HAS CLAINED CREDIT FOR SEVERAL BOMBINGS
ARR ACTEONS VIOLATORY OF U-S- NEUTRALITY ACT. ¥ i

De MOVIMTENTO NACIONALISTA CUBANA {CUBAN NATIONALIST

: RQNERERT ~ TNC? IS AN ANTI-CASTRO REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATION wITH

WEARGOARTERS IN ATANT: FLORIDA, HEADED BY FELIPE R IV ER O° DIAZ.
RE DELEGATES AT SANTO DOMINGO MEETING WERE” JOSE DIONICIO SU AR £2:
ER@UNGL. AND DR. JUAN Be PU LIT D Os
CORRATION OFA HILITARY COORDINATION nce GROUP CONSISTING MILITARY
IT WOULD JOINTLY PLAN GENERAL ACTIONS AND ISSUE
“ @UEBANCE RELATIVE TO IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVES AND EXISTING NEED OF CUBAN
“RINE COMMUNITY. THIS PROPOSAL APPROVED. C'S FIRST. MEETING WAS ser
FOR BP gune 2976 AT A LOCATION IN FLORIDA. DR», PULIDO PROPOSED THE
—BRRRatRON OF RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETEs CHIEF OF AIR FORCE

REQWRETY AT CARACAS) VENEZUELA BECAUSE HE Had. DOUBLE-CROSSED. DR-
bit VY

eocesmanes cafrastraaton aorese
REPRODUCTION Lid omnan THAN THE Woune OFFICE 18 onontarrt® Aa IMPOET,

, cost Sb OVogseay

SUAREZ PRESENTED A PLAN FOR THE



“
Cal
a
2
Ca)
«

brane .
Beicree, ‘
com: mo: 9as SQa dee

BOSCH. THIS PROPOSAL ALSO APPROVED. v ue
C- BRIGADE 2506 COMPRISES: VETERANS OF THE 2463 BAY OF: ee
PIcs INVASION CUBAs*: ARMANDO L 6 PC 2. tsveapa rs MILITARY CHIEPs AND :
PEDRO'“PICO™ RO J:'A'S RAMIREZ CHICK OP PRESS. PROPAGANDA AND CULTURE. t
BRIGADE 2SOb PREVIOUSLY DISCLAINCD ASSOCTATION UITH AILITANT.OR ° ali
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONSs BUT WILL NOW PUBKECLY CLAIM SOLIDARITY AND :
FORMAL PACT WITH THE OTHER FOUR ORGAREZAEOWS, IeEvs WITH: CORU. THIS aa
CLAIN WILL BE MADE EVEN THOUGH M=27-A AND FLNC MEMBERS HAVE NEVER iit ei
OPENELY DECLARED EXISTENCE OF THESE ORGANEZATIONS OR MEMBERSHIP IN ae
THER: BRIGADE 2506 ACTIONS VILL BE CARREED OUT UITHIN.CUBA AS DIS-_
“TINCT FROM ITS RADEO STATION ON SUAN ISLAND SEAMING ANTI-CASTRO
PROPAGANDA INTO CUBA+ BRIGADE BSOb DISCLOSED. AN ACTIVITY IN PROGRESS
“EM CONJUNCTION WITH THE "BLOQUE MILITAR QUBANO WHICH BELIEVED BE A

CLANDESTINE GROUP OPERATING INSTDE CUBA RESORTING TO SOMEONE IN
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. ¥

|
|
|

; Fe ROVEIMIENTO 27 DE ABRIL *aPTH oF APRIL noveneNT bes ‘fea?
a Is BRIGADE 250b SPLINTER GROUP FORMED. ay JUAN P-E.R-E Z FRANCO. OF

AIANIs FLORIDA AFTER HIS DEFEAT AS BRIGABE 250m PRESIDENT ON 17 APRZL

KG oe eaweece eonouaeane

tessomares coming,
RepRODUGTIC = YOTHER Fain Ail y ee 16. PROH” Oe g
+

(MPDET
"onsen .


ENF
AND REPRESENTATIVE WITHIN CORU,. ¥

onr 0 8 6 6 6 6

secaecyt

pect teeth ocee Attar pes :

Sarr . DIRECTOR
cow. so: ras Slo)

3B47%e BY ROBERTO CABAL L O- BOTH PEREZ AND Casale uERE veLecates
TO SANTO DOMING® MEETING. THE SPLIT UAS THE FERST- MATTER DISCUSSED.
QRIGADE ESO REPRESENTATIVES CLAIM THAT FORMATION OF Coty Was
CAUSED A SPLIT UITHIN THE BRIGADE. ACCORDING TO PEREZ. NoL?=A HAS
HAJORTTY OF CUBAN PROFESSIONALS AND MEMBERS OF. CUBAN AUNSCEPALITICS
TH EXILE. AS WELL AS BRIGADE 250 VETERANS. AND ISIN HARMONY WITH
PATRIOTIC GOALS OF THE EXILE COMMUNITY. THE prspure VAS SETTLED IW

_ FAVOR OF M-32-Ay WHICH WILL HANDLE ALL NAVAL. OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA.

RAMON ORO SCO writ BE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS, RAUL C A 6 R t

JR A CHIEF OF “AAINTENANCE AND ae eng" PEREZ THE POLITECAL ‘Leaner
inlgae
2. urs fiPiaszze THAT DUE iTS NATURE AND SOURCE SENSITIVITY.

-,. ABOVE INPO IS FOR ADDRESSEES BACKGROUND ONLY. AND IS NOT TO BE DIS-

CUSSED OR OTHERWISE BISCLOSED OUTSIDE GKHERALD WITHOUT PRIOR. HAS
AUTHORIZATION. ONLY ACTION REQUIRED OF ADDRESSEES ISTO PROVIDE. HaS

“ AMY INFO THAT COMES TO. ATTENTION YOUR SOURCES RELATIVE TO. ACTIVITIES

OF THESE GROUPS IN YOUR AREAS. SHOULD NOT MOUNT COLLECTION

OPS THIS | HATTER wrTHoUT PRIOR HGS APPROVAL. ¥
OaTe:



Sacer ee

i eer ee es
; of e@ 8 6 8° 8. @ :
\ secacr ae
| ates wenan erneee eneeene - eon memeree ‘
, stare : - paeeeren, :
com: ewe: ras. 396 P07 H eee ee '
0 anmn m8 : :
: 6 oun 8 '
% APORCHCMTZONED THDIVEDUALS TO : “

DETERMINE PAST CR PRESENT AGENCY APPILZATION. WILL CABLE ACSULTS. ¥
SM. FILE! 329-300-2820 349-300-268 39e4e4. CB INP Td :

. nasi .

; Ree ~ a

OPS/ITG - } <DRAPT?

8a WPDET
GL BY: gagag:

|
|
a



.

°
oF 8

-asesewe

 hegeer ae = oo
Lo flare : syassz.. DIRECTOR toe
| ve } Neo . v! _
RYBAT HUPANG EY r
REPS Ae (rn-7820919 1
oC trn-9784aalg . < tie.
ao Iru-9762991. (oerNG ReLaveo :
. HECTOR Ee 4

ve oaAY é Mo2 Oy OR DABANSO> OTHER THAN THAT PROVIDED IN REP By

Has HAS So wrornarzon THAT A'VANZO XS. AN ALIAS OF ORLANDO
a IN ADDITION TO PARAGRAPHS
“ones Two AND THREE oF REF Cs [_ al
“BOSCH, AKA PEDRO ANTONIO PEN As BORN 28 AUGUST 2.9245
SANTA CLARA, CUBAs CUBAN CITIZEN, IS A MEDICAL DOCTOR AND: HAS
BEEN THVOLVED IN CUBAN’ ANTE-CASTRO BESDDZATERRORTST GROUPS SINCE

957: “IN 34bO. HE CAME TO THE U.S. TO SERVE AS CIVILTAN :
COORDINATOR FOR THE MOVINIENTO INSURRECTIONAL DE_RECUPERACTON
AHIRRI« IN BAWS+ HE REPORTEDLY PLANNED AM AERIAL RAID OVER
CUBA. -IN.2967 HE  APTACKED THE U+S+ AND BKHERALD AT A RALLY IN
ara

i

cm en

Bo (899°

mahtneee eooce soaainirng GFH0ERE eran tstnte "
Se" C"h ARPRODUCTION BY OTHRA THAN THe (ONUING OFFICE 16 PRONINITEO’. gg ImMpoeT i

nea 6b By: gzhaN4

p

COW |  - aereagyoez



¥ a

on e-

Hi ceteeerateen em cen orme - oemes eecemss meees H j
i
' : : i i
ear. wwe: mg : gases? $ pronlitis hareredi td 7
i , GD eomeres O88 +
Bens 8 !
t uve unper THE SPONSORSHIP OF CUBAN MATIONALISTIC ASSOCIATION icHesteat}
| » €ANCD AND THE AIRR. IN 39b7. HE VAS CHARGED WITH VICLATION t
j QF PLORIDA STATE LAW CONCERNING THE TRANSPORTATION CF EXPLOSIVES.
¢ TM. BLS. NE. VAS CONVICTED IN A MIANE FEDERAL COURT OF CHARGES

RELATING TO BOMBING OF SHIPS: CONSPIRACY AND EXTORTION, SERVED

A SENTENCE IN THE. ATLANTA FEDERAL PENITENTIARY AND. WAS. RELEASED

ON PAROLE IN DECENGER 2972. HE SUBSEQUENTLY FOUNDED A SMALL

\ ACTION GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES CALLED ACCION CUBA. CAC.’ IN 3974

b”. THE %3E HAD AN ARREST UARRANT OUT FOR BOSCH AND CONSIDERED HIN
DANGEROUS. HES GROUP HAD CLAINED CREDIT FOR SENDING PACKAGE
BONBS TO. CUBAN CONSULATES IN LIMA, OTTAUA AND MADRID. IN NOVENBER
AA HE WAS REPORTED TO GE IN CARACAS USING ALIAS DOCUMENTATION
AND DESGUISE.. IN FEBRUARY AA7E ME VAS ARRESTED IN SAN JOSES COSTA
RICA FOR ENTERING THE COUNTKY WITH ILLEGAL CHILEAN DOCUMENTS»
VARTOUS SOURCES. REPORTED BOSCH WAS SUPPOSEDLY PLANNING TO KILL
SECSTATE KISSINGER AND/OR CUBAN AMBASSADOR IN CARACAS OFA
NEPHEW OF SALVADOR ALLENDE: BCHILEAN EXILE LUS ANDRES PASCAL
ALLENDE, WHO WAS THEN IN SAN JOSES TN APRIL. A87by HE. UAS

10 080

REPRODUCTION * | THR THAN THE gouging ints wfracint
i .*


fo Me
Sure
ow @

nae a nae

rca ox oe pore

Zé

com: avo: ras ; sti S18? ,

i
{
REPORTED TO BE IN SANTIAGO. CHILE UITH & CONTRACT To |

{

srcabiees ©

ASSASSINATE i HIGH CHILEAN OFFICIAL, AN ATTCRPT UAS MADE TO
ARREST HIM ON 30 AFRIL BUT HE SUCCESSFULLY sBuanounuescAPcD
LEAVING BEHIND A CHILEAN AND ECUADORCAN PASSPORT CPassPoRT
WANES NOY AVATLAGLED. IN MAY 2976. HE WAS REPORTED TO BE mH
THE DOMINICAN REPUOLIC, WHERE PRESIDENT ODALAGUER vas ALLouING-
HIM TO REMAIN LONG. ENOUGH FOR AN EYE OPERATION.Y — ;

_ Se FILES 202-299292) 16-9-S. £2. INPDET od

A DOCUMENTED ALIAS OF BOSCH.
REF C SUMMARIZES PRESS REPORTS THAT THE BOSCH LED
GROUP BOBOR ORU UNSUCCESSFULLY ATTEMPTED TO-PLACE A
GONG ON A CUBANA FLIGHT AT KINGSTON.

* esta/cocsors[— DRAFT? ©
LA/GUT <DRAPT?
~ LA/SO/EH CORAPTY

‘ COLA GBR mommy
y oft : :

4 LA/GUT

bart
‘oniay"
SUNT &

ax 9043/2249

Roerenane ornasey
ARPROQUGTION GY OTHER THAN THE iBOUING OFZICH 16 PROHIaTED



*

fae wa camer
/ss2a az
P. heey

, ete
Tor patorrty Eos Ooo

KASTONE ¥
kere Ixw s7e2sal ¥

3. UINFORMATION ON ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA FOR PASSAGE TO AMBASSADOR.
SE TO ANGASSADOR.
i FOLLowSt

FO LACAIANT.¥.

WE WAS BORN 28 ANG 2926 IN SANTA CLARA, cuBAs CUBAN: CITIZEN,
TS MEDICAL DOCTOR AND HAS GESSHRBEBECN INVOLVED IN ANTI“CASTRO
*. CUBAN TERRORIST GROUPS SINCE 3957. nN 3960 HE CAME! TO "U.Ss. to"
SERVE AS CIVILIAN COORDINATOR. OF Hovinzento TNS: RRECTONAL oe :
RECUPERACION {HIRR}. Gutszaiey z Le
7 tM 2496S IT WAS REPORTED HE PLANNED AN AERIAL RAID OVER ‘cupa.
TW 390? HE ATTACKED U-S» AND BKHERALD IN RALLY IN NYC UNDER
PONSORSHIP or CUBAN. NATIONALISTIC ASSOCIATION {ANC} -AND AIRR.
“IN nab? HE WAS CHARGED WITH VIOLATION. OF FLORIDA STATE a
concen TRANSPORTATION OF EXPLOSIVES. : ;
ay 3968 HE WAS CONVICTED IN FEDERAL COURT IN REAR, ON: CHARGES
RELATING TO BOMBING OF SHIPS. CONSPIRACY AND EXTORTION-AND SERVED

ZN_ATLANTA PENETENTIARY “aN WAS boride DECEMBER 3978
[pina sieceay y

,@a
& avi

WaPoer.
028928



22" OUTGOING” MESSAGE . -

omnes come waa ome %

or G0 a o 9 9 !

secret pa

sue = pranccron eu Hie
ow, wo. mus BIWIAS cit ern it

a

cremiine ts 06 DEE owen See Pacer

OW PAROLE. HE SUBSEGUENTLY FOUNDED A SMALL ACTION cntue" ia
OF CUBAN EXILES CALLED. ACCZON CUBA {AC>-

TW VARY THE POT HAD.AN. ARREST WARRANT. OUT FOR BOSCH AND
CONSEDERED HEN. DANGEROUS. HIS GROUP HAD CLAINED CREDIT. FOR -
SENDING PACKAGE BOMBS TO CUBAN CONSULATES IN L7MAy OTTAWA, AND
HADRID. IN NOVEMBER L974 HE WAS REPORTED TO BE IN CARACAS USING |
“ALEAS DOCUMENTATION AND DISGUISE. ;

"QW PEBRUARY 2976 HE WAS IN SAN JOSEs COSTA RICA AND ARRESTED °
“POR ENTERING WITH TLLEGAL “CHILEAN DOCUMENTS. VARTOUS SOURCES
"REPORTED POSSIBLE PLANS OF BOSCH TO-KILL DR. HENRY KISSINGER AND/OR
CUBAN AMBASSADOR IN CARACAS OR CHILEAN EXILE LUIS ANDRES PASCAL
ALLENDE NEPHEW OF SALVADOR ALLENDEs WHO THEN IN SAN. JOSE.
oe) APRIL 297 HE WAS REPORTED TO BE IN SANTIAGO. CHILE UITH
TRACT TO ASSASSINATE A HIGH CHILEAN OFFICIAL.  AN-ATTEMPT WAS
E°TO ARREST HIM-ON LO APRIL BUT KE SUCCESSFULLY EVADED, THE
CHELEAN INVESTIGATORS. LEAVING BEHIND A CHILEAN AND ECUADOREAN
“PASSPORT. AND PERSONAL CLOTHING. — ; 7
; TH AY 497% HE WAS REPUTED To BE IN DOMENZCAN REPUBLIC AND

eomass.
= IMPORT
Sos: temtnin eb BY) 028933

a BORET

rs


°.@ ~~ OUHEOING “I°<SSAGE -

a “Rts
our 8 8 Se 9 e ry
ome
Secect
o ‘deity tm ttt -— iH deat bo aon ee

Svare DIRECTOR ; oe

cow. ‘wo. mus QVsiiwa inn i!

Cem oe.

PRESTOCHT BAL cure YAS ALLOWING HIN TO REMAIN LONG cuoucn” ron. au
EVE OPERATION: Yy

Qe POLLOUNE THO PARAS Jomuye

Th ADDITION ro ABOVE. HES PILE. ON BOSCH {2OB-2992%2> INCLUDES
SUBSTANTIAL ADbrTrONAL INFO FROM FOI.” PERTINCNT AND TENELY FOX
INFO INCLUDES GracT THAT BOSCH WAS INVOLVED IN MEETING OF: CONGRESS
OF TERRORISTS YurcH TOOK PLACE IN SANTO DOMINGO ON BB2, 3 AND ©
AUNE Phe INCLU>rNG THREE DELEGATES FROM BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
QRICADE 25045 THREE DELEGATES FROM NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT FOR
SUBA CPLNCDS, THikEE DELEGATES FROM AC INCLUDING BOSCH}S AND THREE
7 MREMBERS Of Tile APRIL ATH. THESE ORGANIZATIGONS ARE COMPOSED
© PREMARILY QF SiidtE-CASTRO CUBAN EXILES. {NOTE: THIS CONGRESS oF
TERRORISTS AAQBAGLY ZS UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATION REFERRED
TO IN REF. GU; Fox REPORT 22D NOT REFER TO ORGANIZATION AS SUCHS
WOUEVERs RYAMEL 2083 STATES “ORU IS HEADED, BY CUBAN EXILE DOCTOR
BOSCH.) noni : boy ii.

“EN JANUARY Aika BOSCH WAS. GRANTED. A POA'POR USE IN. PH OPERATIONS |
POR USE BY ‘facant STATION. APPARENTLY HE WAS ULTTIKGs AS HE

beta)

BECKET

Varooverin a w ad THAN THE IBBUING a 18 PRONISITED a a IMPORT
; oe ee



¢ OUTGOING MESSAGE

cee conmse vas cone
-— oe we

onr a a eo 8 a 8

ee maal

Goa eee cece as os a
stare DIRECTOR
cour: aro: mus gan as boreinioneeranes

Comm 8 |
WAS SUCCESSFULLY SGSUIRLED GN MAY 34b2- HIS: CLEARANCE WAS. ;
CANCELLED IN NOVEMBER L9b2 AND BBBRTHERE IS NO INDICATION HE WAS \

“ ACTUALLY USED.¥

Be FILEt 203-299292. C2 IAPRETod

“ LA COMMENT: REP CONCERNS RBRonemQere ORU, REPORTEDLY HEADED BY

BOSCH. CLAIMED CREDIT FOR ATTEMPTING TO PLACE BOMB ON CUBANA FLIGHT
AT KINGSTON. AIRPORT. REQUESTS INFO OW. BOSCH _ Lutte

ae ON INFO WHICH CAN BE t PASSED To THE ANBASSAROR: =

28 JUL 75
LA/CAR{
aa44

 C/LA/CKR

: aa
pevaooueriest tt OTHON THAN THE IbeLING reed 6 eaoweivaw Er iMpoeT
7 ". a GL OYi mead

so sSidabtlates



[7 tam Jose Indio Malo in Spanish 1750 Ge Jul 76 PA

: ry
: Aan
CuNrnaL aAuserce ‘ Fs Bee n

. costa atca-
‘PORTIGT MENISTER PACTO CLARIFIES COUP REPOST

{text} Referring to the news conference he held yestentay in connection with the alleged
plotting of a coup d'etat in Quatemsls, Pareign Affaire Miniater Gonzalo Pacio said that
Kis statenents vere distorted by certain international news agencies, ‘

tema len Coverrment was not involved and had no partinthe plot, :
Be Aged that the Soup was under preparetion and this was vhy he and the security minister’
la to investigate the armed movenent apparently headed by cuben

4.

Paodo eaid the coup, vas not inminent but thet it was suspected inview of Bosch's trips to
Guatemala. me

Congressmen Concerned Over Runors
Ban Jose Radio Reloj in Spanish 1730 oT 7 Jul 76 PA

frext} 4 motion was subaitted today at the Legislative Assembly to summon Public Security
Minister Marie ¢-arpentier Gamboa and Foreign Affaira Minister Gonzalo Facio to explain

fm full detetl at a plenary session what is really happening in Guatenala,. Purthersore,
We See sone connections in the plot, vhich is nov a chronic occurrence originating in
Quatemla and El Salvador, against cur country's institutional stability with the CIA's
@ollaberation, Precisely this week the Public Scourity Ministry ordered James Willfanson
to leave the country. AS we 821 know, Williamson is the CIA's chief in Costa Rica. During
Pigueres' administration he was: declared persona non grate for publicly bragging about

the activities of the CIA, the Costa Rica Libre Moverent and other groups. trying to overs
throw the government in power at the time. . .

We expect Charpentier and Facto te explain to the deputies and the nation vhat is really

‘happening in Guatemala and what’ role the CIA is playing inthe plot to overthrow our democratic
|) Anetitutions and ‘to place Costa Rica under a fascist dictatorship similar to those which

exist in the continent's southern cone,

ODUEER STRESSES COUNTRY’S FREEDOM OP PRESS
" paras AFF 4n spanish 0240.Gx0 7 Jul 76 PA

{aext} San Sone, Conta Rica, 6 Ful--President Daniel Oduber today reiterated that there dof
unlinited freedom of-press in Coste Rica, Re was speaking cn 6 matiemiide radio ant television
network in connection with the forthsening UNESCO conference on nase communications media,

Mateh W122 open in San Jose en Konday. '

+ We seid that costa Rica ts willing to allow the holding there of @ discussion reflecting

Q11 the various trends ef thoughd regerding fresdon of inférration, "We want the delegates
2°00 BAKe Gn on-tho-sgot evaluation of th tam of freedoms inaluding freedom of apesch-=
: @xdeting in Conta Rice," Oduber emphasised. .

Oduber contended that he 4s against state sontrol of pubdlieity agencies and the communications
Rodin, 44, Peein emound ef evordination between the government and
those egenoics ia necessary.

Fes Mm 32 CLA) T Tul 76

eioences.


"T. @Add, He ended by paying. that he has nothing ecnorete eboub the eoup and that his and

@-BThhs 2.-1T'!

ocsth *2ce
POREDM ISISTA REMCETS CS ALLEGED COUP PLOT
Ban Jose :t:fo LrloJ Ln Spanish 1730 cer 6 Jul 76 PA

(Exeorpts} costs nican Poreign Affairs Ninister Gonzalo Facto told nevwsaen during @ ewes”
conference just ended that he spent the veckend in Guatemals with Costa Rican Fudlio

curity Kinister Imrie Churpentier Canboa talking vith Ouatenalan.overmaent’ officials
out 8 coup that. vas supposed to take place in the next few days in Quatenale to
overthrow Preaident Kjell Lmigerud Carola,

Paste said thet oriande Bosch and other perscns:vore presunsbly: involved tn it but thas the
nanes of the others would not be immediately revealed, The Guateaslen Government his the
situation under contro} and the plan nas failed, ya i

Facto said: (recording) “(fAnd since we also wmiow)’ that Orlanto ‘Bosch Aud’ entered and lefs
Qustemala severe) tinea using different passports he has {words indistinct}. He came and

went from here, We felt that 1¢ would be advisable to nike a fast trip te aistenals to
teke @ close look st things and to talk (word indistinct] with quatemalan offtoials,

Mario Charpentier and X vent to Guatesala on Sunday: afternoon and held the pertinent
Gonversetions, Of course, I talked with the foreign ministers. Mario talked with the
@efense minister. The to (?roported te the president), and wo reached the conclusion that,
there was nothing serious--that there 1s always the sone group, which is connected oF [words
gettatanee) with the same group which people say is a (?cel2) of vorld commnian and must

to me these peop? ere completely half-witted and irrational, and I believe that ‘part of the
viele thing vas the usual gossiping by Orlando Bosch and the group that helps hin, He
Doasted of (thaving support) from other governments [vords indistinct] and the important

| thing was that the quatenalan Government Jeamed that there was et least talk about ®

Rovenent and offered, very sincerely in my opinion, @11 cooperation to avert eontimed
Gctivity of this type. eer : :

Minister charpontier and X came back pleased with the results:of cur efforts, x vented to
Ea rel deed arr tee at fond

acto sada in connection with the coup brewing in Guatenals that, unquestionably, there ary
Groups who are interests¢ in violently changing the goveiivent to osteblish.s rightist
‘Fegine, euch as the one sponsored by the Free Coste Rica Hovemant [NCRL]=

Amced if this coup plan was related in any way to one former President Jose viguerts was
Alegediy hatching, Facto caid there was no connection, Asked if U.S, oitinen WilAisuscn-o
® former U,8, Embassy official--had anything to do with it, Pasie caid he hae no ccnorete
@vidence invelving hin, He added that Willdemscn has 15 days to eave the countrys

‘he Cuatensian Nano Blanca. and the MORE have always been thvolved in these matters, Pacio

Charpendier's purpose in-going to Cuatensla wos to gather information and’ te inform the
Quatenalen Goverrment ge 4° may chwars any. further coup attenpta against Cota Ricks

| Fars, DR 131 CLA) 7 TUL Fe

|

i
t



Commer wears

Burther Details
Parts APP tn Spanish 2529 ort 6 9a 16 PA

(text) San Jose, 6 Ju1—Costa ateen Foreign Minister Conssle Facto dented today that
he vent to Guatenala because & eaup-was bein: planned thor. against Prosident Kjell

Taugerud, At a reve conference Fecto said that he vent to Ouatenala to discuss with
is colleague Adolfo Wolina the rumere circulating here. to the effect that Ouatenalan

Groups led by the Cuban Orlanio Meck-are atte=pting to create. preblens in-Costa Rica, |
Provoking & delicate situation,

. Peete added that Bosch and the Cuatomalans are plotting cutsite dua:
Would inplorant @ subversive plan tm Costs Ries, including the assassination of President
Dante} Oduber and Yacto hinself, Re added that fer ronths Guatemalan croupe ‘[uords
Andistinct] the Costa Rican Covernmnt. Facto said repeatedly that he went to Guatemala
@coonpanted by Public Security Mintater. Mario Charpenteir to. report ‘on the rumors to
the Guatemalan Government, : a

OPPOSITION PARTE DEMANDS VESCO'A BxPOLSTaN eee fetiencreraisercesere
Panama City ACAM in Spantsh 1649 @Ne 6 cul 76 PA tin a trata,

» Etext] San Jove, 6 Jud (ACAN-ERK) othe opposition Democratic Renovation Party [PRD]
bas asked the Suprem Electoral Yritunal to have U.S, millionaire Robert L. Wesco
_ @xpelled from Costa-Rica on the charge of meddling in the country's dorestic politics.
-~ fie Meousation was made by the weatdent of tle FRD's Executive Committee, Rodrigo
* » @arazo Odie, based on public charges which have. been lodged here...

* Qn of those charges in based on former President Jose Digueres! statenents toa neveman
from Yexico City's newapaper. RXCRESIOR to the effect that Veseo had financed several

politioal parties during the 19/4 election campaign. Another ona is based on statements

by Deputy Sigurd Koberg who sone time ago.caid that Vesco had offered financial aid

te his party, Carazo Odie #lse recalled the incident of a speech delivered, by Vesco.

Sustitying his presence in Conta fica, his businesses and hia ties with politicians,

@ speech based on moten drafted ay Pigueres himself while in cffice as president.

A constitutional norm forcids foreigners from interfering indonestic politics. Vesco came

12,5 te Costa Rica in 1972 and immediately caused intense discussions over his: :

: dnvesnents and hip ties with knewn politicans. Here he has escaped from legal

- Rotion to reccver $224 wtilicn belonging te the investors Overseas Services, « mtual
fund watch he managed. caieese eee cttte

PROPIE'S COMMITIER UNTTES AQATHA GOVERMENT inn)
“1 Paname City AOAN in Spanish 1956 Gut 2 sul 76 PA Peete

. Pa re bw

j | Of People's Organisations (OCP30 de Julio) hes been sreated which, according to ite
fenders, neoks to rally support thin month for mes rodilivotion "to hover the memory
f cup student herean who Ware killed on the sforenentiond cate” during the repreasion |
> 08.0 deronstration: : ' an

Peasant, worker, student oraaninations and opposition perticn=-the National Revolutionary
Mevenent (Kil), Ohrietian Derdorabie Party (Puc) and the Nationalist Democratic Unten
{Udi} announce that the sonnities alse socks te etvengtnen tlic uriity and Fighting spirit

Of the poopte in thety etmucaion against ves they terme “dlotatorship.”

Nomrernssanl

Sent] San Salvador, 2 Jud (ACAHLRPR) -=Zb was learned hore today that’a $0 July Committee :



Tet Cla@ecrea,
.

i He LIST QF GUATEMALANS HENTIONED.”
VOLO Min Facl® CRO NGT NENTION ANY GUATEMALAN NAMES,

GOOTA RICA ON ABOYE PASSPORT. AND, THEY SUBPECTED DAGANSO CONNECTED

TY thease erizas “at ~~

“Ta 978260

TOR13337032 JUL 76

SECRET sy29¢008 a ve starr C
ents :

AVBAT wurang

- RurA (al 175087)

do CURING LATE & OY HERTING WITH ESLOGIC=27) HE BROUGHT

UP Suguect OF CUSTA RUZAN COUP PLOT AND ACCUSATIONS OF ROBERTO

WRITO ARANA INVOLVEMENT AS PUBLICIZED IN GUATEHALAN NEWS MEDEAs

GSLOGIC+27 SAIL THAT AS SOON AS HE "HEARD ABOUT THE. ALLEGED PLOT
WE CALLED GUATEPALAN FOREIGN MINSTER TO FEND OUT IF ANY NAMES,
WAD BEEN NENTLONER, HE TOLD

BY. WAY OF EXPLANATION
TWAT MEVERY TINE COSTA RICANS COME UP WITH A GUATEMALAN PLOT fo
“OVERTHRON THE COSTA RICAN GOVT. HIS (ISLOGIC©27°S). NAME HEADS

HE CLAIMS FOREIGN MINISTER

Q.  ESL0Gtces? OD wavE ONE NAME WHICH HE SAID FACIO ASKED :

apoute WEGTOR GA @ ANS 0. CHILEAN CITIZEN WHO HAD ENTERED \eere
gosta RIGA ON CHRAEAN PO NG. 26583, FACIO CLAIMED TO HAVE INFO

“yHat GADANSO WAD RECENTLY TRAVELED GUATEMALA SEVERAL TIMES FROM

Oo ig

wl Qa 98".

G@acret



Ft ‘
a) | ies ta eva260
: Noaaarese te ,
ee IN woe en ne ia
WITH LOT, eSLOGICeay CLatnEn NOT To anow ONY TW ING a

OUT bapante
4NO $a19 mg WOULD BE INTERESTED axneaary Yaces, :

ii 3. IN GENE Ray CONVERSATION BaSeD ow "EOLA covenace THs
ii SUBJECT, ESL0GtCe2?7 PROFESSED NO KNOWLEDGE aBoUT Prot ano
if.
\
i
|
\

ate
REITERATED GPINION EXPRESSED BY SOME THA? Costa RLCans

PERIODICALLY CoME UP WITH PLOT STORY TO Tang PRESSURES

Orr
|| OTHER PROBLEMS, PER

WOS GUIDANCE,
DIL NOT ASK ESLOGECe27 any Ou

SSTIONS BASED ON INFORMATION i
|] PROVIDED IN PREVIOUS TRAFFIC THES SUBJECT,

( 4

|

assstaaa é uss
|

}

steseess

3
9s JULY

RE ACCUSATIONS. OF TITO aRaNa INVOLVEMENT REPORTED REF.

"GUATEMALA CITY PRESS quoTeD STATEMENT By Facto

CATEGORICALLY CONDEMNING * TRRESPONSIELE AND UNFOUNDED SPECULATION
BY NEW COMMENTATORS" LINKING TITO ARANA TO "SUBVERS
ACTIVITIES AGAINST costs RICAN GOVERNMENT, © .

stout

Ve

Fites ‘yeoo-s, 20190261695, 201-8164708, ga, TMP DET.



oe

‘

OaGE 63

1
| BEG REY sazezes we v6 Starr
|

cive

vos

! WYOAT MUP ANG

170 DIRECTOR,

Aare

1) A728 269)

+ Se 078685.

MID ANA
HAN
DD NOT REKOVE

Se BELIEVE MAME MENTIONED Paka 2 ner $8 GAROLE OF
WECTOR G, D' A VAN 26 CINTOLES! WHICH 18 A DOCUNENTED
ALIAS OF DR. ORLANDO GOSCH,
SAN JOSEs COSTA-RICA ON.48 FEURUARY 1976 KE WA AIN HIS, :
FOSSESSION A CHILEAN PASSPORT IN THAT NAME 265831 IT Was
PRESIDENT DANIEL @DUBER GUIROS WHO CONJURED UP INVOLVEMENT.

QF BOSCH IN THE ARMS MOVEMENT STORY WHICH WAS SUBJECT oF =
RECENT TRAFFIC,

WHEN BOSCH WAS APPREHENDED IN

MAS: NO INFORNATION TO CONFIRM ANY
“| “SUCH INVOLVEMENT BY BOSCH, ODUBER oBvroUSLY PasséD HIS
THOUGHTS TO FACIG RE BOSCH,

oe WHEN BOSCH WAS APPREHENDED IN SAN JOSE HE WAS FOUND ©
WITH HIS DAUGHTERs LOURDES TERESITA BOSCH DE GRINDER (OR BRINER)+
| BORN IN CUBA ON 17 FEBRUARY 4958, AND AMERICAN CITIZEN. HOLDING
“|| Use PASSPORT #2267692 ISSUED ON 6 SEPTEMBER 1972,
I MARTO RUBIN GRINDER CRINERDs WAS BORN IN BUENOS AIRES ON, 27
7 : a secret

WER HUSBAND,

om,



‘ ¥ 67066 tiie

4
4

: tomagez272 ue re ;
ttn re eo

APRIL S998 and woLos ARGENTING BP RTI TS Pee
GRINDERS wave GGEN HARATED agour ONG AND ONGoHALT veang
4ND ONG of Bork, WAS STUDYING MEDICING ar THE UNIVERSITY
OF San can WN QUATEMALA. as a RESULT OF THE gantHOUaKg
THEY LEFT GUATEMALA FOR costa RICA ON © FEBRUARY sore,
SWERE ARE RUMORS. WERE THaT THE BAINDERS WAVE Since

RETURNED TO GUATEMALA, BOSCH 18 NOW IW tHE DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC, ;

3s TILEt se0905, 204-380005. G2 InppEr



| : ‘ « Cason nae tee anes ~

Berwarded herevith sre two Federal Bureau of Javestigetion
repersa tated 25 June 1976 concerned with Subject.

3. Wour etteation is called to paragraph othe page twe,
Of the tepere which dscusses the Cubsa the r
Bopublis.” although we bnow of no sounts |
we receld Uhet EXFETCH-9 was well baown *nidewey" one -
BouRteizive “ta the clouds outside of either San Cristobal or
Beat. varven the indications thet we have received of EMANTHEN-3's
interesy an orlande. BUSCH, and the occasional. “confusion” by
EMPYRER- 28 and EMPETCH-9 om SOSCH'S prosence in Sento Dowingo, te.
ae eeeanran that EMPETCH-® might De concesting what he realy knows

ebout the ROBCH matter? If anything does tura.up slong this line,

We would be interested ia learning about it.

Attachments: es stated above h/w
Distriduaton: §

= 5
SECRET i) APIPAIA |.
a i.
dstribution LA/CAR/DRH GE Eta "i349 -y
7 1TG ce ‘on secrete
Cod 4 ont ia
TORS.
ops/itc 7” WfA& ad
‘LA/coG
gree vemos, Lol

: /LA/CAR



INTELLIGENCE REPONT DATED 9 JUNE, 1996
CLASSIFICATION: 8:KET

“BUECTY CUBAN EXILE TERRORIGR ‘tpoup

REFORT Wor 2 231 0921 76
UTOth NE Group
Fe. Amador, CANA, B0hnt

4


bescws

Betsy cmt Sethe its

yo BragFe 0 UME, tA

a wooerww seers

bTeue

StEEEEE Ete bbsyt Lup umeih Gd ene Gaussomet emits
i ne Ure ck FALE GUELL Udita Gbed Mancday 1
ANP URMATECM QumEcmn ime Heb ECat fim OF : :
ne CULE CotebAdh Ede dee BeCcay Gury DOCUMENT,
WO FERED FEEDALMe CRNLMSILE Obe Te

Ll

"0 0

© 0:0:

€2 EMPOEY CL wy 056979


OUTGOING MESSAGE

or 8 0 6 8 0 6
| gecter :
: “0 “asgoaaz, praectee e7s\47
Pe Mere ere eta

Ne, Sv, 54 04 ae ;

1 Cy me 1

ANSPIRE KASTONE Y

acrs: ae tw 4seureel ¥

e. 13m 98999900] vO?

a

Dy

unite
oat:

OW BBG2% JUN 7b.
MAS ARRESTED IN COSTA RICA IN FEBRUARY.

LA/CAR/ORH

202-2992923 22-)2-200.

LAsHEA
Lavenc

JG
tareos

foomases
REPRODUGTION BY CTHER THAN THE IBGUING OFFICE 18 PROHIBITED

SECRET DQa -~sa-200

bAlto
3. JNPO OBN HAND AY HOS INDICATES un beac came

RONREP SINCE CARLY APRIL Phe ¥
i ON 283 JUNE 7b DOMREP CHIEF OF POLICE TOLD
 CONSEDERING THROWING BOSCH OUT OF COUNTRY.

i]

WHILE NOT NECESSARY MAKE EPPORT MONITOR
BOSCH'S ACTIVITIES, PLS ADVISE IF YOU HEAR KE LEAVES DonREP. ¥
PILE: Ea. IAPDETed

SA CUBAN EXTREMIST GROUP OF WHICH ORLANDO BOSCH IS A LEADER i
PLANNING 70 BOND custna FLIGHT TRAVELLING BETWEEN PANAMA AND HAVANA |
BOSCH CURRENTLY RESIDING IN SANTO DOMINGO. HE 7
IT UNKNOUN WHEN HE RELBEASED-

BOSCH WAS ESCORTED/DEPORTED TO NICARAGUA BY OVERLAND ROUTE au

THAT HE

‘ a Pe
/LASCAR
saemeamaatins Sonate

ia

lap A 9FDI2

‘a & IMPORT
GL BY: 022923



Leg oo >

les Seger eereur sas aga
i -

meena ot mene en
7

<P cap ote some. HitbIsy pA
ieee i wee 3 we ae .
| C{zar_jl” : ’
| AEN Ye) eleed cfes/aae, :
\ : aeeieeiece badly 2 a dete pe
ve” biaeaa ia Ue ey 4
(ei vomeazas saa. wun _¥6 1. j
Dente ee el 7
| @ G6 86 Y aazseas sun 76 Stare

; cite

! | _ VOt DIRECTOR, : uy

B39 1K ,

| MEFS) 4, DIRECTOR 62024 vad

| rrr Cw 995 8%)>

bbe

GC, OIRECTOR 62876

“€e GINCOLN RONDON, WELLeKNOWN CUBAN RESIDING Mtanys
vistreo SANTO DOMINGO FEW DAYS AGO. ASKED ENGARNET@t
1? WE KNGW uate ade AgouT RECENT VISITS OF RIGHTEST CUBANS

') te
YO CONTACT ORLANDO BOSCH, EMGARNET@1 EXPRESSED SERLOUS.s onsrcen sar |
DOUBTS SUCH MEETING TOOK PLACE: POINTING OUT THEM: ePRPORT

agtion in. i
outhe rin harap |

“CONTROLS OF ENTERING CUBANS VERY TIGHT. RONDON HHO IS AN...
4D BOSCH HATER) SAID HE WAS CERTAIN MEETING TOOK. PLACE * Goan: Gg
“AND. CLAEMED CUBANS ENTERED COUNTRY WITH FALSE PUBRTO. RICAN enfeog.(e
DOCUMENTS KKICH ARE BEING USED INCREASINGLY. BY ERTREME: :
RIGHTEST CUBANS BECAUSE THEY ARE SO’ EASY To OBTAIN, ‘fF APDrorriater

8, GMOARNGT©4 REPEATED RONDON'S REMARKS 10 EMFETCHSO,

WHO BAID HE WAG SICK OF WASTING TIME CHECKING ON BOSCH'S 29) un Me H

CAGTIVITHGS AND E88UED INSTRUCTIONS To POLICE OFFICER Te |
Bye : 441-999294

~Deage ee |



diekn)

‘

fame 24> Came os

SrhacHeAnea( Y (SHBtStEH none ES OS ror

PAGE B2-02 tw 956000
008223522 WN 76

FELL 3086m %O oi v BOMINICay REPLELIC WITHIN A WEEK,

Bo OT RECRPTION ON 83 JUNE. EMFETCHOD TOLD WE was
PTMROWING BOSCH OUTe,

WE SAID WE WAD ‘LONG SUSPECTED THAT
GOSCw was ACTUALLY CASTRO AGENT CHE UNDOUBTEDLY IS IN©

 PLUENCED OY UMGAANET©R IN THIS REGARD) AND WONDERED IF THE:
GEST THING WOULDN'T BE TO “GET AID OF BOSCH.” ( RxPRESSED
AMAZEMENT. GALD ME OID NOT THINK SUCH ACTION SHOULD BE GIVEN

_ SERTOUS THOUBNT, BOINTING QUT.s AMONG OTHER THINGS THAT THE COUNTRY

AND PRESTOGNT BALAGUER COULD ILL-AFFORD THE RESULTANT PUBLICITY.
 weheiN THINKS THIS 15 SIMPLY a CASE OF EMFETCH=9 TALKING MACHO.
oa
PLACE,

REQUEST QUERY Fel te REF C MEETING ACTUALLY TOOK
SUSE oy PIMGE Gedeapeden, G2 rnpner.



a

agp ret

CE enn

WE mands



eee

siesene

a
3

tom 88 OtmEe tne’

= .
Stone OFFeCe eS CoCeBLtT
eam ened eee

a =o PRES — -

7

ese eae ‘Gan

eee ce me een,

VW99208 — Erazio”

tN Re

I. fianiraiiatir;
3500352 are gs tech 5
Ss ————d ee

cite ie ceeueasaiat
. roa IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY
“RVBAT WUFANG

ners (tN 92850) ; i be

2, MEETING WITH HUPANG*2 (Fea) ON 24 JUNE BEGAN viene WH

i
{
'
4
1
i
| SCRE T 1423222 JUN ve STAFF
i
i
|

Fel QUESTION TO CASE OFFICER REGARDING WHAT USE WOULD @E MADE OF

LINFO REGARDING PLAN TU OVERTHROW COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT. Fey
WAS TOLD THAT USG HAS NO DESIRE INTERVENE DOMESTIC POLITICS anD
SOTHAT ‘SOURCES AS WELL AS INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED WoULD BE PROTECTED.
7 COMMENT? INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED ARE CLOSE PERSONAL AND IDEOLOGICAL
“ASSOCIATES OF Fei, WITHOUT SUCH ASSURANCES IT 1S CONSIDERED THAT
Fea WOULD NOT HAVE SPOKEN FURTHER OF THE MATTER, q
+ @y IN GARLY MAY ONE MARIO FERNAN DE@ otha. €X JEFE
-’ DBL ESTADO MAYO UN TRAVELLED TO CHILE To. ATTEND A MILITARY SCHOOL.
REUNION. FERNANDEZ WAS A CLASSMATE OF PRESIDENT PINOCHET AND THEY
Raman GOOD FRIENDS, ACCORDING TO Fed, WHILE IN CHILE FERNANDES
wicyneo AGREEMENT THAT A QUANTITY OF SOVIET. AND. CZECH WEAPONS

CAG une OY. THE CHILbAN SOVEANMENT FROM LEFTIST FORCES IN CHILE
TGR a FALL OF THe ALLENDE GOVERNMENT WOULD OB SENT TO CosTA Aiea

AO ON To atoe - |
ver

ty Oe

“Tha byat



rom comes. E oun ar

sane Me DSstw Or. ne pete .
mreanouc rom BY OTnee fms,
RE ' Hasan GFE 1S PEOMMITEO

\b eeson ete, SOMeMOL

—t

“grazie ~*~ AGED;
TOR3500352 WUN 76

“Toes

i

i

| via GUATEMALA FOR USE IN OVERTHROWING THE CURRENT COSTA :

| RICAN GOVERNMENT, THE WEAPONS ARE SAID TO CONSIST OF

\ RIFLES AND SUBeMACHINE ‘GUNS FOR A FORCE OF APPROXIMATELY 308
| MEN, AS WELL AS SOME 3 MILLION ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION. “HE
i CONTRACTING PARTIES IN CHILE, PRESUMED TO GE THE GOVERNMENT -
“OR MILITARY BUT NOT CONFIRMED, HAVE AGREED TO SEND 2 MEN TO :
COSTA RICA TO ASSIST IN PREPARATIONS, THE WEAPONS HAVE NOT

YET BEEN SHIPPED FROM CHILE. ;
3, THe PLOTTING GHOUPS IN COSTA RICA CONSIST OF THE

“RECENTLY FORMED.ALEGION OF EXSHILITARES" WHICH INCLUDES RANUEL

 gNRLOVE "PIVIQUEM GUERRA VELASQUEE (20i-2266252+ AND

ROGELLO GASTRO PINTO (Roneu9ze755)1 THE "SINDEP* GROUP OF
CONSERVATIVE BUSINESSMEN. LED BY LEONEL P'T NT 0. AND ARMANDO

GUAR DIA VILLALAS! THE MCRL FONCUDING RAFAEL ANGEL UL LU Ay
BOAR CARDONA QUIROZ AND BERNAL UR BTN A PINTO! AS

“Wabe aS FERNANDO OR TUNG SOBRADO, ROBERTO FERNANDED.

- BURAN AND GEAARDO FERNANDEZ DURAN sl eae
4, NUPANGSS 18 GATAOORICALLY OPPOSED TO THE PLAN BUT UNABLE

TO WITHER CONVINCE HIG. ABSOCLATES 10 DESIST OR ESCAPE THE CONe

_ MEQUENGES UF Toi PLANNED Act ION; vbven . wi DOES NOT



mee ete ee

eee Lee coes. one

rratenerssnrereteers merecouc Hos ey ormee tmer
sume eee es PO MONED

se eedet tenes ret — c a € -ap ai

10 ase ware s. a, z aaa
Prretee ne eB ee

s|iwe ewe vn
“

a aes
oO

“TY G07293 evaze ~~ Pace as TIN 958304

_ToRLaseassz JUN 76

PARTICIPATE, HE ann THE GROUP'RILL RECEIVE THE BLAME FOR |
ie ‘ THE. CONSEQUENCES. AND IF HE OPPOSES 100 STRONGLY FROM WITHIN HIS i
| ASSUCLATES WILL STOP CONFIDIAG UN HIM, AND BLAME HIM FOR ANY ;
FAILURES. Fei IS THEREFORE QESIRGUS OF FRUSTRATING THE PLAN BUT
NOT AT TH COST OF BETRAYING wis FRIENDS AND ASSOCIATES,

RESULT IN GIVING EXePRESIDENT JOSE "PEPE" FIGUERES A MOTIVE FOR
UTAKING CONTROL OF THE ‘COUNTRY TW ORDER TO SAVE "DEMOCRACY AND
CFREEDON™, GIVEN THE LONG TIRE ASSOCIATION OF “PIV IOUE™ GUERRA.”
VELASQUEZ WITH FIGUERES, THERE I$ SPECULATION THAT FIGUERES WAS
MANTPULATED THE SITUATION IN ORDER To PROVIDE HIMSELF A.MOTIVE |
FOR RETURNING 10. POWER,

|

1

H if
“| {Be Fed BELIEVES THE PLAN WILL FAIL, AND FEARS THAT IT May

$6, WHILE ALL THE ABOVE REMAINS. SOMEWHAT HURKY.

AND Fea ARE IN AGREEMENT THAT SOMETHING BE DONE TO PREVENT ANY
MOVEMENT OF ARMS. BUT WITHOUT BETRAYING TO THE GOCR NAMES AND
GRTAILG GF INDIVIDUALS. INVOLVED, PROPOSES. THE FOLLOWING
THY O7AG@ PLAN FUR HOS APPROVAKY :
he APPROACH HIGHEST POSSIGLE S
GONTAGT TO ADVISE/WARN OF INCLPLENT PLAN TO MOVE. ARNS-FROM CHILE
-10 COSTA AIGA VIA GUATEMALA, POR USE IN OVERTHROWING THE



eae eae eg Ct

@EPEcoUC Tom ev OTmeR tne.
BSUS OFFICE cS PRONEITES

“IN 930360

= FOR1A9 20382 WUN IE

“COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT. ND. QTMER DETAILS KNOWN. - PURPOSE OF

> APPROACH BEING TO MAKE CHILEANN QVERNMENT AWARE THAT PLAN IS

KNOWN, AND THUS DISCOURAGE SHIPNENT OF WEAPONS, IF INDEED THE

CWILEAN GOVERNMENT WAS A PLAN TO D0 Sou DETAILS OF PERSONS anD

f,. GROUPS INVOLVED IN COSTA RICA WOULD NOT BE REVEALED TO CHILEANS.

8. WILL RAISE SUBJECT WITH HUGALLYe2

AS HAVING ORIGINATED IN CHILG@s AGAIN WITHOUT OTHER DETAILS THAN:
MOVEMENT OF ARMS FROM CHILE TO GOSTA RIGA, THIS WILL SERVE To
emenT HuGaLuvers RERLAS t0 win use a000 FAITH
IN OUR DESIRE TO PROTECT DEMQGRACY AND THE LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT
oF COSTA Riche, If? WILL BE GMOWAST GD tO MUQALLY©S: THAT GOCH NOT
KNOWN TO BE INVOLVED IW ORDER TO NOT PREJUDICE RELATIONSHIPS
SETHEEN THE THO: GuBFRNMENTS, cee

Vy REQUESTED APPOINTMENT WITH HUGALLY©a (POR OTHER
AWONS? FOR HORNING 46 JUNG, THEREFORE RgouEsT
ACTION PRIOR CoB 35 vuNE,

APPROVAL.”
204°261099," {eegess, We ineper,.

re

Chena

APPROVAL PARA 5

RGQUEST, MAKE NO ene AgOVE twronaton hbbdbbde



a

ony resem - pateced cere mm ema

ean DIRECTOR ebegs4 pintettsie -
tro: rue, Sesion, sa eZ, Loaf? ; — enween / i
. -ops/s re x efad,. Doe Ome ee i
+ peefos, Devo 2 2, paewen pee y ; y
ae,
VULOFTY ¥ : y ‘ ‘
REFS: As. DIRECTOR *b287 tel 4 :
8. w7uus LIN 93saques] on t
'

“. DIRECTOR 82497 less] ¥,

“SECRET

PILE: 200-4-495... £2 INPDET od

2 FBI REPORT ON PLANS. OF ANTI=CASTRO' CUBAN “EXILES
* $0 HOLD CONGRESS OF TERRORISTS IN SANTO DOMINGO

ga (BaBs_ANp 4 JUNE 2b.
se REQUESTED PERMISSION PASS SUBSTANCE REF A TO
AND DISCUSS WITH SECRET SERVICE |

eee ADVISED THAT FEI NOT YET DECIDED ON HOW TO
“MANSLE REF B REQUEST BUT WILL ADVISE.

ears B UUNE fe

One: ¥ y-
“wuts + C/LA/CAR/OR
wr 4344 :

. Tec

Hceevtteeaey oi :
opsrisn [7] trevecoonp>
| emanate hetteniadl : epreuemaa rot Goran es
Rapngouerion OY OTHER THAN THE ISBUING OPFIER 1S PRONINITEO =o g g IMppET
cL BYr



H
l
{
|

~ ec ntee ememe

i SAF WZ panector Ba ‘
| com. Lai 1S 50° OME vesteZ oar v2.3, : 4 ate ones 7 A
8/10, eeshiret, upd, Van nat
jee : a"

| i bo4, Bos/oo, dvd 2) Pipeoisecttr'ar 4a 7
| yor mnnedratel_—

[ yuuerty ¥ - '
| REF? As DERECTOR Bb367b : : . aii
| i 8. Irn aasawl vy : eee ages
1+ “FOX WAS BEEN ADVISED OF YOUR CONCERN ABOUT DONENTCAN RE~ " :

ACTION TO CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST Groups MEETING IN SANTO Donte AND
OF YOUR REQUEST

“BUREAU HAS Nor YET DECIDED HOU m ANTS TO HANDLE MATTER. VE WILL |

i

t

3

j _ | LET YOU KNOW AS SOON AS SOME RESPONSE RECEIVED. ¥_
| “* Be FILE: 200-Ub-49S. Ee IMPDET.d

A - FBI SOURCE TO ATTEND NEETING OF ANTI-CASTRO
ST GROUPS SANTO DOMINGO JUNE 2-5.

Bo ASKS PERMISSION TELL EMPYREX. EMUISE
oe AND

JABOUT THE MEETING.

“ oe rm,

BATE: : ianaee fan
ons, ce
at creer K op sia

44, ZA. cnn

eenomunne esracee tumwtntaatieg ervees
meepoeverion GY OTHER THAN THE 186UING OFFice 18 PROHIBITRD a3 imMpogT

CL BY: 018933



ee
cis ose orate oo free
vi a”

ee eke ote moveners,

Je. DBE AF ehy2. es
T versed ELagse oes Tw 935606 ’
Foacszzesez mayire
: RE. daavasd may 7 a. ‘ee
7 SECA EV 020698 6 Starr )
H CxTE - 7 t
b | Ton Peweptate Cieecron : a
wiacT dLRECTOR eee : 1.
wiuarry . oe ete GHEE te a
REFL DIRECTOR 62876 : Ts saat :

4. PLEASE ASK Fal FOR ren yssien Pass SUBSTANCE REF Sete teres aeaeere Bruce

“EXPEST SCREENING TO Be FURTHER TIGHTENED PRIOR KISSINGER VISIT.

“MEET WITH BOSCH OR NUT. JUDGE CHANCES THAT POLICE WILL ARREST

es ee 7 :
2, AIRPORT CCNTRULS ON. CUBANS ARE NORMALLY TIGHT AND WOULD

bh ONE POSSISLE REASON ReF MEETING PLANNED FOR, SANTO’ ®

pONtNGo IS PRESENCE HERE OF ORLANDO aoschs WHETHER VISITING CUBANS :

THEN CAND FB} SOURCE) aS FATALY GOOD.

NO FILE,

bacaat


o
’

;

Ss.
a

8 wee ee

= ee
eersegy preci ea” Ebitie
7 -* i, Cm 9 tank
fa Say 1D bus : :
ae ;
4 : gn ee i o4
' Tor Imes Tere ig LE t ei.
Na Bd POLL CUeme EE. GueTE OF REPORT chOvIDED OY FES UNICH «ARE see

For seR2iNS OR YOUR BWFO guy ©

OTHE FRENTE RE CROCRAC Lem WACTeHAL DE CUBA Ww tCd 2? # CUaay

||. TeRRO TST GROUP. HEAXGCARTERED BU ONTAA UHICH HAS ChAZACe CREDTE F.- 4

| TSR EES OF C1 84m CHBATEICE AND CoMSULATES Eu PORCEGH “OLHTRAG? oS Fei

| | WELL AS OORBINGS FRIWEN THE ULE. OM MAY Bbs 47b0 A soiree we MAS

| | PURRESHED RCLEABLE ANPORMATLON BW THE PAST ADVISED THERE Had BECP

| nruime or sone LEARERE OF tHE FUNC IN RIANE ON AY B50 EMRA7Ls TIE.
Purrose OF THE MCCUE UAE TO BERCUSS A CONGRESS OF: TERRORISTS
SCHEDULED INK SANT@: BONENGOS DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. ON JUNE 20 3 AdE Ws
O¥i7es THE LEADERS BENIRE THE FOLLOWING REPRESENTATION AT THEE

MEETING? THREE BRARGATES PROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF BRIGADE

, BEDRE THREE DELEGATES PRON THE PLNCS THREE DELEGATES. PRON: ACCION

CUBANA AND THREE FENDERS OP THE APRIL 27TH GROUP. ALL OF THE Fente

GOING ORGANSEATIONS ARE. COMPOSED PRIMARILY OF ANTE-CASTRO CUBAN
 EXELES."¥

BATE:
- ORIGs

2. BUREAU. BAS Recnuestes AND RECEIVED AGENCY CONCURRENCE TO

Poiceevsbeeae Gemma vars +
Les cy HR Bichoney enw Fike TE MsUING CARER SE MMETED og RIMPS
fn rs is



Weer eEN wee

~
DIRECTOR .

ee '
@ wun

831876 A meme me

@ amm @ se
WAVE THEIR SOURCE TRAVEL SANTO DOMINGO FOR THREE OR Fewe gave te

|S RECT VETH LEADERS AND REPS OF THESE GROUPS. ¥
Be WO PILE. CB SNPRET Od

- gare 88 HAY The
unm: ‘DC7LA7CAR
3457

EE
vag Th ven gees

ARPAARIIONAt AV ATuaR ruse



DATE! 28 WAY 1976
CIASSIFICATTON: SHCRET

SUBJECT: FRENTE DE LTRERACION NACIONAL DE CURA”
FBI FILE NOt NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)



seer me wee e€S. a Segal

Tem Meee gg

anmesennewbF

iY berees " G4asee

i
jes anatase aeestesecatt Yomostae men

BE CME YT 8328008 Mav 76 stare -
Cire 3P :

YOs PRIGRETY DIRECTOR INTO OMLoRtTY

ROUTING

KHSPIKE GMNISE
sary (Fhe 906509)
. }
3, EWFETCHO9 TOLD LYNGA 3 may Thar Gautse LOCATED ORLANDO :
“, 9.0 SC Ws CALLED HIM IN FOR QUESTIONING BASED ON |

— :

“PREVIOUSLY EXPRESSED INTERGST IN HIS WHEREAGOUTS, EMFETCHED
CONFIRMED THAT ADMIRAL DE WINDT PERSUADED PRESIDENT SALAGUER
* TO-LET BOSCH REMAIN SANTO DOMINGO LONG ENOUGH. FOR EYE

OF Micha. A : :
JUN 2 81978 \

Micros F

OPERATION, EMFETCH=9 SAID PRESIDENT ANNOYED BOSCH ‘HAS: NOT

YET HAD OPERATION, WANTS BOSCH ATTEND TO THIS IMMEDIATELY:
‘AND GET OUT OF COUNTRY aSaP,

: 2. BOSCH NoW STAYING HOTEL CERVANTES UNDER LOOSE
SURVEILLANCE,

SUGGESTED SURVEILLANCE 8 STECPER UP
BECAUSE BOSCH CAPABLE GETTING FALSE TRAVEL DCCUMENTS AND AGAIN
DISAPPEARING FROM SIGHT, GHFETCH=9 GAVE GHWISE=L5 INSTRUCTIONS
70 TIGHTEN SURVEZLLANCE, ‘ ace

3, ENPETCH?9 agkeD fF

PREFERENCE IS 70 KEGP
SECRET

RECORD COPY.

SF Ita 16 H

AO H-2GPIALA 3



ems Ae ort

ee eee re
oe at

“TV beree,

Cenc set mere ne

Erases

ane # Vomresararg m,

608cu We Gane DontnGe UNTIL O48 MEETING tm Sanrlace wag
GND6D,

COMMENTS. ©

i
i
|

{
bs
1
1
i
{
ae
|
|
¥.

COWILE OELLEVE ENPETEHeD WEL TRY TO KEEP
BOSCH IN SANTO DOMINGO Le HIS 18 WHAT WE WANT, PRESIDENT
“MAY NOT OB WILLING TO 00° ALONG.)

a 6 PET CHO®: MOPED USO WOULD NOT FORMALLY REQUEST
Extaanttion, na SAID PRESIDENT WOULD PRO@ABLY NOT BE
WAVORABLY ITNCLINGD BECAUSE OF FEAR OF POSSIaLE REPRISALS

- AGAINST DOMINICAN INSTaLLaTIONS asRoaD.

9, ENWI8E6as TOLD LYNER IN SEPARATE CONVERSATION THAT

“AP TIME BOSCH PICKED Ne? fap WE WAS LIVING. IN
: iabe OF PEORO DANTE!

a Y NO S Q+ CHILEAN. ENGINEER
S WORKS FOR eee DOMINICANA DE ELECTRIC! DAD.

T

LYNGA THOUGHT Tess wOWO BE IDEAL SOLUTION. REQUEST



C6 83003
TORGS7L2Ie Mav 76

ee

.


UUICUIfes p5ESSAGE

em tomes ace oe
-_ -— = =

-
onr 6 6 6 6 8 6
oo.

ee

SeceerT iam n a sar
: ‘cae conocer cme - ‘seses enemas can t
| : stare a SIeEcreR _ 854873 Resear
: 8 ame
Le @ omen 8 at :
fT O8 taro h ’ i
| i! wwspace curse v :
were {tm soaaqzel ¥ Piststae tee sett

B+ SVATE. FOX AND SECRET SERVICE NOTIFIED raat sescn Now te
DOMREP. WHILE THCY VELCOME WHATEVER INPO IS OBTAINED, THEY DO MOT |i
‘Wow HAVE PRIORITY INTEREST IN BOSCH AND D0 MOT CxPECT v0; i
MAKE CPPORT To COVER HIN. ¥ ‘ |

B. FYE. SECRET SERVICE HAS. ADVISED US. THAT ALTHOUGH BOSCH 4
WANTED IN US. FOR PAROLE VIOLATION, DEPARTAENT OF JUSTICE: CONSIDERS :
HIN TO GE AN "UNWANTED ALIEN" AND U+S. GOVERNMENT WOULD PROBABLY :
_ DECLINE ANY OFFERS FOR EXTRADITION TENDERED BY ANOTHER COUNTRY: oma
NOST RECENT INTEREST GREW FROM REPORTS THAT. HE WAS PoSszeLy
INVOLVED IN PLOT TO KILL NEPHEH OF FORMER CHILEAN PRESIDENT SALVADOR
_ AMLENDE WHILE KISSINGER WAS TOURING LATIN AMERICA FEB 7h. SINCE THIS:
© WOULD WAVE ENGARRASSED U.S.. EFFORTS WERE MADE TO PREVENT IT. HE

IS NOT CONSIDERED THREAT TO U.S. OFFICIALS. HOWEVER, AND WE SEE NG
REASON TO HARRY HIM FROM PLACE TO PLACE. REPORTING ON TRAVEL
BE WELCOME. ¥ ee ‘es

"RECORD COPY |
UpUCTION BY OTHER THAN mao OFFER (8 PROHISITEE 8 &



UUIGUING MESSAGE

i oe) reset rresteires (es au :

‘f eo 89 8 © @ 0 @ Terni
eniceoien booby

it secret jo

| ¥ naanee ame ne ance om ews cae ~ 4 bos

iy. STAPF i DIRECTOR aoe ce

ees 8 : 7 :

1 ¢ Sie wo: Frag i aaa |

| ' OSIVIS Soma OO.

| 7 Donn @ . | Eee

: 3. WES TRACES BRECATIVE ON PEDRO DANIEL REY NOS 0. ¥

i | [We PILED -2Ob-299292.  C2,INPDET.A it

; OPSiian

c/opsy2te 428 SUBSTANCES
CAB

Pércasnecan ae
7s ae
craven + SAR,

naraocu NEN Than THE IRVING OFFER



4 OUTGCIN@GMEsSAGe = te

cece a4 tee
-. oro 9 Oo 89 Oo Go 8 ee eee
SeceRet A ee . i
(esecoes wonn.one eames ee ape - contac RAerEIE we ce
a BAT + rere
(| “i cfuar me na Sith), chewh, Px meme |
tf chose fery, cloP3li70E. 9 mmm vm

: af pute ir fate ooed ‘
TOr SECRET SERVICE//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, FBI//INTELLIGENCE

DIVISIONS DEPARTNAENT OF. STATE {(SY/I/FIB}. ¥.

H

i

| a
| | SECRE T/WARNING NOTICE ~ SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES. AND ase
| METHODS INVOLVED - NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS. ¥ neta i

suauects Poet anne BOSCH AVILA 2 SS. FBI 16 ge; : Heew

_GiR-33b/02000- 7 t : : eee ae

B- CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM 7
GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF-£.0. 31652. EXEMPTION CATEGORY
-$B{3} {2}. IMPOSSISLE TO. DETERMINE DATE_OF AUTOMATIC hn
ti Fa
“|RCLASSEFICATION. E2sTNPDET«d
‘BASED on:
PROJECT? ENFETCH/"
opur ot ;

IR- -3iufaroe9- %
OMAYIG

Lol 2VMI2ID

; if feat

REPROGUCTION BY OTHER THAN _ MHOVING OFFICE 18 PROMBITEG «6g gl “INPDET

arernt ; chav, osama

wan AEN eh be mae nna nn et el mdm,

unrts



TN 986589

TORISZZZLE APR 76

SEC RE T 3019402 APR 76 STAFE

1} ante I 3aissed APR Ve STAFF
=
|

TOS PRIORITY DIRECTUR INFO PRICRYTY AOUT INE

cI

“RYSAT MHSPIKE EMPREDICT EMPYRER
REFS! A. DIRECTOR 648677
B (xt sesed,
c. tNQT NEEDED
over THE: PAST Fen weens PAS in MNISE HAVE CLAIMED
TO HAVE NO_EVIDENCE THAT ORLANDO BOSCH Is IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
HOWEVER. EMPREDICT COVERAGE OF ARMtRAL DE WENDT (ON 27° APRIL
NDICATES That BoscH 1S IN SANTG B@NINGOS HAS NOT ENTERED LOCAL
- WASPITAL FOR CATARACT GPERATION (PER PARA THO REF C2. AND WAS
PICKED UP BY ONE OF THE DOMINICAN SECURITY SERVICES AFTERNOON
27. APRELe present Wee RE ABOUTS ROT KNOWN. bree
Be, UMPYRG HOGS SAYS HE WAS NG FEFCEN KE KNOWLEDGE WHERE BOSCH
coaster OR WHO DETAINKD WIM ON BP APRIL, GMPYREXeze ADVISED.
| THAT We WOULD TAKE NO FURTHER INVESTIGATIVE ACTION SINCE
HE CONVINCED BUBCH NATTBH BGIKhG HANDLED OUT OF PALACE :

ay emusioent evvaautn, — ["HECORD COPY oe
4 cia hii :

2p /-299A 9A



Rep ersceeaeies KOMEN Rn enn ene eee

anes : : Peat :
i- :
|| cama ace pause o_o rors: cooas ono eo
earacoverom 8» ormae, mam
| # Shes COOKE @ PRORETED
|) emonnser worse ;
1 ADV anes D.B.OTTER ae ar + ’

:
1 :
TORISeZe212 APR 76 eras

|. Se DAY FOLONTNG BOSCH. DETENTTON, ENFETCHS9 TOLD ENGARNETeS aemee t

| Twat PRESTDENT WAS FOOLISH TO PERMIT. BOSCH ENTER COUNTRY, SAID eee eee

= | WE. SHARED AMERICANS CUNCERN OVER BOSCH ON THE LOOSE AND i | a

: SAID WE WOULD PICK HIM UP IF HE LOCATED HIMe BGLIeVES i. be!

. | + BT POSSIBLE POLICE ARNESTED BOSCH AND EMFETCH=9 SIMPLY NOT 3 ‘ Ro.
|. apHETTING FACT TO EMGARNET=2. Sine . -

4 FILES 20a-299292, £2 LMPDET.



SwEscrkKt-T USIE  26¢c5/To

Se-NUMERK_____OUGe DATE. OCs FILED IN.

os 2Gl—-Uz99292 - 30 APK Jo :201=03C0%s

\ : te
cre

ct stent te anv ce ay onary _!

: so marten ALR ANG SUTURE 1
hdl pp LB eT Pe creer ecamee gece |



k BOSCH fiula ULl Anse re

i Ee 22 age 16 i So eeBe toe

} 6r epCRUER CLA AGEEE! RAMUSL DE ANUS HOLDS PRESS COMPERTECE - a a

iH Mavens Porestic Radia/Pleviaten Services in Spanish C109 Ont 22 ape 76 PL/PA = + * : «
| Ureees conference: held ty “form CTA Agect* Yamel G2 Areas ta Havana on 22 ferecs : i

 widvotage } i : _
: *

: (mat) riret of al1, 1 vould Lita to explain that 1 an going to read a uettten states - ,
wont watch I-have great interest in presenting in such & way that there, is no doubt =”

aac Gbout the quility of its contents, That 1s vty, dud toe problem I have in expres ing ‘
syself iz Spanish, I would lite to proweed inthin panmre 9 60 0 : --

3 would Like to Cale this opportunity to dencunee nat has been a phase of ay lite
“Gane to briefly explain ay presence in this country. “ty sbjsetive. te to cramiy)
Gencunce ail, iésoral acts carried out, directly or indireatly, against Cubs under tres fies
sponsoranip of the orth Amrican goyernant, oF which I'he Wniowledge. H

f

! +> g.{aek cuba’ 2 years after tae triumph of the revolution for tantly reasons:
} Non a ssnier of a fanily which €i¢ not know hev to or was rat oble to adept itseit So
\
!

She ite bere.and cated to live abroad. I attended asconsary, Behool and college in’. *
‘the,"Eatted.states untid 1969 wien I was recruited by the Gentral Intelligence Agency.» jaeevesteaes we
Wy Felatjons vith tre, CIA and a musber of U3, repressive organizations began then..."

: ** Great cifriculties arise in cases ‘such as nine. There are (always may. ates
: __unamavered questions as. te ny possible motives oF political affiliation. Yy motivation =”! :
+ “jes Beoa,ctuated over a period of 5 years of personal, politica? ‘and Adsologicdl degrad~ + Vea

Ation resulting in a high degree of personal frustration, Regarding wy pohitical ~~ ieee
*  aepaniatton, I unfortunately have nom. Gea toot nese Sagat aS

2 know that nary veo Listen to this press. conference abroad will teentity 7 es-part
Of this system. Wvertheleas, I vould 1ils to male. a brief explanation. | T want to.
Gate it very clear. that 1t is not direoted to those who accuse me of being sllied to --
the system, because I do not ove thea an explanation. Ferhaps. the Shing X would Like +
Rast wow is that those who Goouse mv would be right, pus unforturiately Seo concept oe:
ef feontirication, just like nine ing the past § years, has no pal
Wevolutionary systen, =~. : aoe teen 2
“fas pant 27 youre of revolution hive rot teen based on identifi
| geinaiples that many are nat oapable of recognising precisely Donuts they lack them.
As & Berth Acirican intellcence agent and, of course, funstioning at the: eervice. of ©
Worth Aowrican political interests, T Lived approxinately 5 years, in. & work of. 4°
df on inporad rancor of iésologicsl Gegraation and in so antipregressive |”
peaition vaish have forced m to com, to Cuba to densunse these facts fram a totally
persona) viewpoint and under ny resporsipility, and thus denounce the eabivities of » |
ie OFA and caer U.S..governentad erganisstions which work for that syatem'a interests. ~

Be fe mosesary to oxplain certain charasteristios which are common to them ao part of
Auoh & system, In that cystem I lived, grew, studied and finelly funobioreé aq an”
Qotive part of the intell ‘ence ‘conmnity, and that s8 why Z consider 10 ry Fight to
wale tte following consense.. : sare

| an the environrent that 1 Lived in undid very récentiy, Like ottards Zvas rawr eble
Wo adsuad. |: do net believe there is any other systen ike that, eapable ef developing ~ |
& Back of personal ond social identity fue to £0 taliovnature, which does nob H
grand values to any type of ideology oF satel pre ethatio

patepialian characteristic of the already degraded interes! ib ayatem,

FOG DEM 77 Con) Bd. APR 7G.



Ren -. ee

Tee CIA. a2 QrfoawE ef those interests, eats vithout moral scruples to support tea,
2 | hes sTeten 18 vel skuewm to All bat aot all are villing to adsit it. ue coe tae
i 4 extensively adout ‘Ate, ret at is not a
facts tm wish the CLA bas partiospated in activition egatsae revolutionary interests
Within a24 without toe mpablie of Cube ty using Counterrevelutionary groups.

| By relablera’ vith thee elemnts tegen tm 1970 and it apects ically pegea vith the
‘ Group ABDALA, of whieh I was coordinator for the Chicage cell at the very tegisaing,
Later, 1m 1971, I becase ARDALA coordinator for all’ cella of the midwestern part of

+ te Tntted Staten, me Cundanentalnission as CIA agent vas. to perstrate. the ABDALA

i ergentzation at the Aignest level in order to consretely evaluate ite political:

‘ "SEEGAAtion, Rave the tweeesary information to be able to fully and effectively  ~
Gontrol the orgenteation and, through 18, be able te control otter counterrevolut tonary
erganivations ansceiated with ABDALA, tet tes a :

ZX Ueren ay activities by attempting to determine the poss:

q i wares, to Grmonstrate that those persom wire" *
woting as counterrevalutionary elements to Gover up the illegal drug trafria under:
ohare foom the Cuban Government. - . Whe RTS ertricars ft

. Sue a year of investigations, that theory was not proved. respite that,. toe CIA
end other organs Ganbinued to lock for evidence 4 at invelving Cuba and distorting
Ate gorelgn ‘image, In lg7i, the Ora Wacerahip decided to transfer m to By York
State ware I was given the seenticication of = high-level official in the drug control,

vv Pominaton Of the State, meee activities aid not aftect ay ties to the anese

teri tea WO contrary, belped strengthen wy tien with the organisation's board of
ES 5, . 1 i .. i a BH

3 matstatred relations with the following GEA cffiotels: Bracianhouse, fires.CIA -
Siam Re contest ro cid teoruit um, and Alehard (Tomly), abate officer of the Yolaan,
‘Werginta, Cyerations ertion, who conducted ay. inidial training and soted.as evaluating
Superviner in the ARDAGA organisation, By then, the main intervet ef the CIA in.

: nal capacity of this counterreveluticnary group,
the poanteility of using te in terroriet acbivition and predicting its future develope
mand, The ABDALA program wee known

hot only to the CIA but also te other governsental
ergenipations and theip Pespective inteliissnes organs, 7

AN the Gime the AUDALA Yeadersnip, vnich was $184 te torrente’ sotivities, was mde
WD Of Guatave Henin, ‘Rreiqua Mnoinewa, Lagare Alvares, Eduardo Lina, leo
wytelts The OTA Operabinne office acnaidered

1 88 oppaded bo the raat of the organteations,
Aracteavive eloronte and enuptatans who vaste

tol
AUDALA to be orm cf tha peed posssDiiities
which ere believed te te mede up of
the sgenoy's funda without ary resuite,

isterSion to point out generalities tut facts, »



“we az aes ee | * emma

Sow Twill enumerate the activities of this organtsstion that wre eneretmeee of
Girected by the CIA as an organ of the U.3, Goveramat,

Sv York: Through Gustavo Marin I learmé about &
Yersons of otter countarrevolutionary groups to areate @ more conareve ant stronger
Drogran of terrorist, sations, «Te is in this manmer that ABDALA direetly part aipated
in the founding of the so-called Cuban Pront of mttonal Literation (etme], wnoer
fundazental objective vas to carry'out terrorist sata. The talke on'tne founding of
Se FEM were held by the “ABDALA leadership: and Grlande Bosch, Dr Vatwwe Leyva ang ‘
Br Muxberto Fontana, I wis introduced to Sourterrevolutionary by the nase of 7

Octisrres, a militant of ABDALA vho directly partietpated in the tereveiea ageless
tre Cuban Consulate in yadrid, Spain, A powrful e:

q@reoral coordinattem of ASDALA with 7

aplosive \aa-plaved at tre entrance | : ;
of. the Cuban offices. in Madrid, causing bevere eateriel danages. tw eftions wre
totally destroyed and the’ reot of the officsa were seriously deuamed ea-will as other tot
' floors of the. building vhére the consulate was “locate

Frovert Ot We ties of the
explosion vere theCuban coraul, his vife and otter officiels,

Erowledgs of plans of terrariat acta against Vereruslan tourist offiees in purrte Rico:
‘These acts wre Carried out by Juan de Dios iho-resided in Puerto Riga, Ty ware
Geveloped in reprisal for the temporary detention ef Criande Bosch im Vere ml : 7
‘erritery and were of course made known to the CIA ty ee. Nothing wan Wore to atop :

them, The CIA also knew of:and coordinated through ABDALA a ‘pudlia vest in lew York : :
City vncn u terrorist act was to be carried out against the building ef the cuban :

‘misaion to the United Nations: using molotov cocktails.:- This was called ort ty the |
CTA through officer Bracienhouse ven Sons contradictions ercee in eacnainating with

the yBI on how it should te dom. ory oo |

Mae CIA brew of attacks by persona reaiding in Wlant ageirat Cuban CHening veeceis
4% international waters in watch leader Gustave Marin directly participated. Oeecr
" Gamtes, © CIA informer, also took part. ee areca

Rrovledge by the OIA and coordination of terrorist activity aqainat: te Outen Bunssey
4m Montreal, Canada; In this second attempt, the ABDALA group, which wae going to
_ Se ee 88 Lisioon, vas given a certain quantity of explosives. I mat explain that
“|, Shds was not carried out because the required prict scordination with: the ROMP, the
- Ganadien authorities, vas not nage, even though the coordination with tia FAI hed teen
magi. In personal conversations held with PBI agents, the Wée-thia ie tim tational
Seourity Ageney--and representatives of tt gustices Departront at te femal level, -
(leh Sook place in the Federal Building of the Scuttorn district in the oity of
~ Mummattan, the possibility of contr-iling the astivitise of those teregriat eroupe
territory was disoussed, -Hons<er, despite the falke, Weusthat ta, the
\ OFheedid nov interrupt the sotivities in'thess tarrorist program, 4M vomersaticns
with tho ABDALA leadership, I learned of posnibio attempts on the lives of certain
Andividuete in exile vho had defrauded the counterrevolubion, THA then plicy | onthe
tefore the desth of the. notorious counterrevolutionary leader Josa de da Yeurtente,
3 Also learned about the attack on the Hispano Warehouse in Mu Yor Siby veacse’ to
Was Gonding goods to Cuba. This vas curried out by ARDALA Miliband Wrenands PracEelle,
‘fhe tobivity vas authorised by the OIA to determine how far tive AWNALA terroniat -
Spperatua would go. Ry then, Bob (Dynus), a OIA officer, ‘ho suppl ind wmpiesives,
Ipating in the operational program with ABDALA,’ Bob {Oya} now works tn:
Felated te chile, fae : . :



| :

i : 22 ace 16 as . he ielstsstied

i 7

\ { ‘The Cla knew about and approved acts against the Cutans de évisciom effices in Mecito

Faaea'| Cty. Parttetpat ing ie this act was Les Victa, an AHLALA \rader wo traveled to Heatce ?

ty from Veneruela, 7 : : 7
: s 7 e

Rhowledge by the CIA of personal contacts with re; atives af the present Gailean 4

Government in Kew York City to take Grande Bosch fe Catle after ALS. arrest ta Venomuoles t :
Representing A5DALA was Enrique Enctnose, who 1s @ rabid aiuires cf erlande Bosem, and
Fepresenting the Chilean intelligence services was Wr Julie Solose, :

Rrowledge by the CIA of the financing of ABDALA by the witrarighs Jon Birds Soctety
and the Latin American Club of the tnivaraity of Tilinotss Partictpating ta.the belie

om Financing vas Senator Buckley of. the U,3, Congreso; who matntains close relations i pos
with ABDALS leader Encinos as wel) as the notorious Carlos Prie Socarres and Wicaraguan : 2
President Sosoza, | . 7 t

GTA coordinated & program, for collecting funds for ABDALA, extorting éash fromthe -

President of the Republic Mational Bait in Htaat and aasessinating Rolando Masferrer,
Por the killing of Rolando Masferrer, CIA officer Robert “Bob” Mills gave me four a ;
Packages (petacas) of C-5, I personally gave thea to. Lazar Alvares, p leader cf AIDALA, i

later, an everybody knows, Masferrer was murdered,

3 eust.explain that ay relations with CLA officer Hills came about because: of hie °° °°

experience in Cuban problems, He acted as Matson officer b:tween the CIA and the”

Justice and Defonse departments, Those are oil the activitios that I. perscrally 7 eee

Participated tn an a CIA agent, I will now emmerate other activities which I learned

about during my stay in the United States ant untle traveling tn other countries, I had :
Bo.direct participation in these programs, At this tine I would Aike to explain that, ra

* even though I say that I had no direct participation there should be no doubt as to the
veracity of the following events, I mainly learned about these things through official
-Sources, and that {2 werk, comredes, Sao ast

Attempt on the life of Cuban Prime Minister Pidel Castro during nis’ stay in Chile: Zt
Was prepared and directed by the CIA, which introduced counterrevolutionary Antonie.
(Bectana) to the Alfa-66 organization, requesting from its chief, Neaarto Sargent, the
wen needed, fhe (Ychambers) and diplomatic passports were prepared by the CIA, Parti=
stpating for Alfa in this activity were Josus Doninguox Beniter and several others, |,

Kidnaping cf Cuban fisherasn in May 1970: Zt was directed by the notcricus CIA.agent
Bamon Crogoo Crespo and Raul Carreras, foruer menber of the 2506. Brigade. who participated
im the Playa Giron ‘landing, ‘This activity vas also carried cut ‘by menbers of Alfa~66,
%n acbivittcs rgainet Cuban fishing boats, counterrevolutionary Rotarte Tur acted as

Bermanend informer, estabitshing the positions of the bests. Me lives at 12th. Avenue
Detween Gth and 9th Streets in southwest Niemi. © i" i nt a

’ fate
Other activities carried cub by Alfa-66 were: Attacks cn the Cuban Bubassy tn Mexico
Oity in the early houre of 20 January 197%, when two explosive devices vere used, one
oded and the obher, which did nob explode, was hurled at the children's playground
Gt the Cuban Mission, In the early houre of 5 August 197%, & bom exploded in the
Garden of the Cuban Embassy in Jomaics, In cetober 1974, hho Bahamian euthoritic
‘Sapbured seven Cuban counterrevolutionaries Who, cn orders of: the Alfa-66 organisation,

Were going te infiltrate Guta through the northern ccatt of Oriente. Province, They
Were to land lute Lobaina and Aristides Mazques: armed with He2 carbines and pistols ‘with
Giiencors, ‘The objective of this miosion-was to assassinate Prime Minteter Pide) dsstre,,



eee ee eae Wee

eis :
foe ers C298. 25ce 200 Seesaw F '
POR C0 2, ROO LS of ;
Togpess, sete at : sh srers ‘
wpetets +
. t
Sea eT SElesee. be Te StEFS z Bee +t
chive cae
Toe Jrwectete LERESTLR INO Jerest ere tha

Ch0sS VILE COPY
Bou

BO Wor DESTROY,

IMPEDIATE CA/RLAYTS

MWSPALSH- AMSTONG SGCHART WRASYSS

REF DIRECTOR 6146526
h FY, CARACAS DAILY NEKSPAPER ULTIMAS NOTICHAS, 22 40&

| 76 CARRIES PRENSA LATINA STORY DATELINED HAQANA 2% APR TITLEDE
CIA ACCUSED GF MURDEXING ANTI-CASTRO LEADERS. staay ¢ ce TESS AROUND
ALLEGED. PRESS CUNF ERENCE IN BHICH MANUEL DE ARM A Sy CLATHING
TOBE A FORMER CIA AGENT. “TELLS ALL™ ABOUT “OPERATION. ASTALA,®
: DE ARRAS CLAIMS, THAT WHILE STATIONED IN NEW. YORK -IN 1972, WE
MAINTAINED contact WITH ThO CLA OFFICIALS (FRU) BLACKENKOUSE WHO
~"WAD RECRUITED HIM THO YEARS PREVIOUSLY, AND RICHARD TORLEY OF
: MCLE AR: VIRGIN TAY WHU HAD TAINED HIM AND WHO EVALUATED HIS PER=
FORMANCE INITHaReY IN OPERATION ABDALA, DE ARMAS ALSO CLaIhS that
; TEARORIST ATTACKS AGAINST VENEZUELAN, TOURIST OFFICIALS IN Puerto

: Rico: HERE COORDSNATED WITH THE CJA AND: CARATED OUT BY A PERSON
eis Pry] ge, Basin REPRISAL FOR THE DETENTION. OF ORLANDO
dosch IN cared FURTHER, D ARMAS GpAles 10 HAVE HAD care f

P201~ 299 249 2 26 Qa6 probate 229 D2
vis © doreag gene



Vieneess © afares wage 9d

WORT eaLeddE 28a VE

ee ore oaaariuns FOR AITACKS ASatNs? bees AND Tadd THES PLANING
we MONTMS PHIOA TO THE ASSASSINATION OF 0
Sivaed Qreteats
Ny b@vcee Fe aRAAS BAYS BOF CONESe a CLA OFFICER,
PeQVICLPATED IN AGOALA FOR Tre SUPPLY OF EXPLOSIVES IN SEA MISSI ene
WH eTEG TO Crtiks Oe ARMAS SAIS WE SERVED IN VE. ABDALA OPERAT
WES BS AN EATEHMEDIGRY BETKEEN ROBERT BUD MILES AND LAZARO strane:

Ra yg DEuIVERY uF > age oF £ 4 ease WHICH WEAE MS eh te
ote

De
UWE BILLING. a, HOUANDO WASFERRERs DE AMOS. [DENTIFLES MILLZ-AD A

RUALSCN OFFICER BETREEN THE DEPARTMENTS OF JUSTICE AND DEFENSE.
UE aRmas AEFERALD TO ATTACKS AGAINST CUGAN FISHERMEN AND sath
ARBERTO fir, "lve INFORMANT LIVING ON 227M AVENUE BETWEEN 8
AMB © (SIC) Is SOUTHWEST MEAMIY HAS THE MISSION a LOCATING THE
Beats, ; é ’ :

Qe inlas CLAIMS THE CIA 1S ENGAGED IN A-PLAN TO. BRING

abGuT RUPTURE OF RELATIONS BETAEEN VENEZUELA AND CUBA, AND THAT

PRED DUNGAN DOUGH PHILLIPS» UNDER DIPLOMATIC COVER, ARE’ :

PAR CIPATING IN_THE- PLAN, "DUNCAN AND PHILLIPS ARE ALLEGED To

BE USING AN: APARTMENT IN TRE "MY FLOWER” BUILDING IN cae IN

GONUUNC TION WIth THIS PLAN, ap nth "
uy oat Lee GONCLUSION OF HIS conreaanca, be | ARMAS 1s RGPORTED
: : “SGcagr



THE tho canacas DEA DISTRICT OFFICES
o MAY Fuowee SUILDING TO MEET DE ARMAS,

_ Niasadsercg aa ve

fo dose ee sh 6 Gh6U OF CEO CFNCRAR weiem TRCKLbED y

Love Oetms

Gate Vag dag try.
Th tng shee Wf La Finite AGECT YR Bh aterrs
aTitg ae oe vette NOT SLbaRd Nd RL

ROP Tomgar, ay Cog ee ti aw
CEPLT ER Le oh VERGE ITO SPOOL ALTE hag ER GUGAN OMfNeThtL a. dtd

PALS : STIPIGD OS BEND BN Celie, Paem GUN an a8 AT Tenmalte

Ih Ted VAM AZAR STATIONS DOUGH OHILLTSH ag a LEasON LIPtceS, wbeke
THe UEPARTOGAT. OF JUSTICE) Ae NOSS4 aN CPECER gb THE SANT DOUGS

STAT YON. AAG: bys RESA 9OTGs A CLA StemetOR IW THE MAME Aken,
we vy

Ansan) Kiteons (s UGENTIFIED AS A Saa ACENTCINFORMANT EN SUBMES
we 7

Tenn |
1910 Crowsa wes PALE Gas ANGER AGENTOINFORMANT EN 4E4>
RyCARGO wonaces NAVARRETE” ota OFA TOR _ CARACAS, ARMANIO

: tre AN AGINE “IN GARAGAS AND ANTON, 36) CeoNe 4, agent IW Mextca,

4 As “neaDQUAnTeRS AWARE PRED BuNSAN AND LEE PRILLIPS ARE

Sy DEA USED SAFEHOUSE IN

NESS IS (OR WAS) STATE
SECURITY. IN SANTO DOMINGO. : : i

15+. AMBASSADUR HAS DIRECTED Ne GOeeEnT EMBASSY RESPONSE

ANY, naut ates

Ler ‘aooetaues3e, _ BB byBGer,



ute, de, HE DIALS
oe ewe oe 49-3:
fee eet eet emt rao a “al
* 8 3.6 6 a 3a 3
sccecr

eee al eR at it 2 bel
3932502 aacis
ww thar =o mes ella, O7% Sao, §
thewho, clos, clera,
 MGPSHTOY |
VOU Use SECRET SEAVECES IWTELLICENCE DEVIETON T6re reer buacay
oF JuvEST CATION TaTeuercence Division. v

CUR 3/0 SOM ¥ : :
f SOerer ; ARMING WOTsCe © SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
1 ACTHODS THVOLYED=-NOT RCLEASAGLE ¥O FOREIGN NATIONALS. ¥

i SuBUECTS “ori ando Bescn AVILA Y ¥

Se INCARLY APRIL 3970 A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELEABTLETY
ACPORTED tar ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA HAD ARRIVED IN SANTO DONENGOs
DONTNICAN REPUBLIC. USING A COSTA RICAN PASSPORT WITH A FALSE WANE.
BOSCH WAS REPORTEDLY To ENTER A CLINIC IN BOSANTO DOMINGO FOR A
CATARACT OPERATION. -¥

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OPPICER. ° EXEMPT FROM

IMP
ch _ one”

i



OUTGOING MESSAGE

enem Caroe ana mee
SHU NIEIGa TG TTTTG HRETT onettTtc herent .
1 secaet

i a oon meme ae
fe : : aa : :
a wow are: as + fimo Bebiae Bt. ; ae
i : FU2tS Ooms me : ;

@-
GCHERAL vccuasstracatton SCHEDULE: OF €.e. Basse. CHERPTION.
CATEGORY SO C2). IMPOSSIBLE VO DETERAING “pare ‘oP AUTOMATIC
DECLASSIPECATION A

IN B93Sb91 AND zw eexasal.

, BASED ONS

save
TA wg :
ete @ ’,

nur OY OTHER THAN. THAN THE TSRUING dred our



OUTGOIN(-\ MESSAGE
om og ee gt gn
‘ Seeeer |

sue. . DIRECTOR ‘ "anon?

la? = my mh Maes, RFE Bethy

‘ DB eens #9
| 4. Te —|twro iNise h hw Pig

t AMSPIKE ¥
Ct 1IN 8833521 {BEING RELAYED wor
fo: ele NEEDED OTHER ADDRESSECS> eacge
Haz icencaureee( (3 17m asasual <eEING RELAYED| IW" j
a Ye GEST PARA 2: RERSA ROS Beane FURNESHED TO Us Se SECRET i
t ‘eet
pee

SERVICE AND FBZ.
¥

2. VIEW BOSCH'S PREVIOUS ASSOCIATION WITH ACCION CUBANA, WHICH +
- REPORTEDLY RESPONSIBLE FOR BOMBING SEVERAL FOREIGN COUNSULATES IN U-S-
AND ABROAD. AND POSSIBLE VISIT OF DR. HENRY KISSINGER TO SANTIAGO OAS
REETING IN JUNE. VILL APPRECIATE ANY ADDITIONAL DETAILS AVATLABLE®
TRE ‘bosca's ACTEVITIESS TRAVEL AND/OR INTENTIONS. Y
-299292+. £2 IMPDET.d

a COMMENT? REPORTED UNSUCCESSFUL CHILEAN f=
eee -, . ATTEMPT TO ARREST ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA ION

30 APRIL. AND THE- ARRIVAL IN SANTIAGS [08 |rrq

C/LA/NU =F» DESMOND:
42N DRAPTS
OPS/ETG

* Go/- 299294

CIN DRAPTD

amen mn

= snl ee
ws ACALAICA that
aa ee

pxigiTaD
eo erce Mise

REPRODUCTION BY OTHE!



am
OUTGO!L.. MESSAGE

SS

ow o 6 G6 8 G 8 BO
SECRET
es ene er
STare + 3023532
cow LAP eo

(Hie Tot CABLE SECRETARIAT. ¥
eee : PLEASE aaa

‘POR INFO. E2°INPDET.d

COPY ATTACHED

DIRECTOR

Irn agasea! To.



“oa

nr, oo]

i ge ant =, ~

i a secaen : | Bowron: ast mo

 tpak PES stare avn i
mee yeh, ee, chi 2 Psizga, |

ae aces ae
~OTRYRESE age ay Bee ;

TOR? 45203

“SECRET 1520122 abe 76 Starr
CITE :
{Tot GIRECTUR INFO }

= PUBARGAIN Qu Iges

4. NEW FUBARGAIN CIDEN FO2 WQS ONLY)

contact
“WHO WELL Be RURKING WITH ROGOVER UNTIL OaS MEETING aDViseo

15 APRIL ORLANGU BOSCH AYILA SHOWED UP IN CHILE APPROXIMATELY
TEN DAYS: AGO.

BELIEVED BOSCH HERE WITH CONTRACT ASSASSINATE
HIGH GOC OFFICIAL. FUBARGAINS ATTEMPTING LocaTe TN ORDER
. ARREST AND POSSIBLY TURN OVER FEL FOR EXTRADITION to Uss,
BOSCH EVADED INVESTIGATORS 1@ APRIL BY MATTER oF 30 MENUTES,

LEAVING CHILEAS ld ECUADOREAN PASSPORT AND ALL CLOTHES
BEHIND.

“ @e POSSIGLY RELATED TO ABOVE CACCORDING FUBARGAINS) 1s
ARAIVAL FIVE SCCPED RIFLES 22 APRIL FROM ARGENTINA, ROGQVER

BUOGESTED THEY “ALSO CONSIDER POSSIBILITY THIS SEPARATE Case
AND RELATED TO DIRECTOR Bsy2oa case,

$. WDEN REFRAINED FROM PROVIDING DETAILS AND IN That

WE NEs CUNTACT GUGGVER AELIGO. UN GLICTTATION,
We Mab VOLUNT@ERGL FUNG INFU THAN. MUST

NONT HEL ESS

eacrer


7 43503 Tazo

Pack 02
ToRL S203

CONTACTS.
de DEFER FILE,

t2.

IMPoET,

-_-

2



i

T d50003  Elacas PAGE @1-2a3 Te 89ee2e

| : ToAsL416362 APR 76 : 7
| - ;

|

Se CH EF 2430808 APR 76 STAGE

errs

Vos | INFO DIRECTOR.

REFSt As ———— 4484044)

oa (nor sen) 82651)
a. aCCuRDING TO ERYTHROID©33, BORDER AND LOCAL RECORDS

suo ba aNad 6 O'S CM AVILA DID NOT ENTER NICARAGUA’ TO

pare on 2aPF & CHILEAN PASSPORT OR REF B ALIAS DOCUMENTATION

e OF PEORG ANTONIO PENA 7

2. PILES “zede299292, EZ. IMPDET.-

Ao Opn To
D1 XA PGAGIL,



DATE: 9 APRIT, 1976
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SURE

CT: ORLANDO SOSCH AVILA - FUGITIVE; PAROLE
TOLATOR

Vv
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (CABLE FM DIRECTOR, FBI)

DATE: 8 APRIL 1975

CEASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: MARTIAN INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT (IM)
FBI FILE NO: 105~22201 (MIAMI) :


a

| ORLANDO tu
. CARRIED CHILEAN: PASSPORT IN/NAME OF HECTOR E, D
_ CARRIED CHILEAN: PASSPORT INUNAME OF HEC

———
BOSCH ENTERED
“ae FILE 2

GecRET

SSPERSISISEEURGE IPE gtetesBnsnsnassozensersnsteAnsUoeMnEEEE



TOR:O7I6332 APR 76

SECA ET B7L6142 APR 76 STAFF
cite
vos piREcTOR INFO|

| REFS [eel F535

4, ACCORDING TO ERYTHROID=33, THERE TS NO RECORD'T
DATE OF ORLANDO 8 0S GH AVILA MAVING ENTERED NICARAGUA.
SUBSEQUENT TO HIS RELEASE FROM JAIL IN COSTA RICAy- HONEVERY
THIS DOES NOT RULE OUT THE POSSIBILITY THAT HE MAY HAVE

* ENTERED NICARAGUA USING ALAS nOCiMENTATION,
“lau PILEL 2049200292, G2) IHPDET,

47

‘fois 2994920


AMER oro erento

eens nay assem

| { -° OUTGOING * 1ESSAGE
[4 vente oe OP
i | ox go a @ oo .; ; ’ ooo
a
STAFF iP d BSE ‘ 835293 : i iM
| cow: WEE mre: me. ie “vet lortand. ee ren :
iia sh il ese, plpmsae a"
| a oe ee el
i i } } } h
} i h Hl }
he } i i :
h iM ly . Mv i) h (
: > 7 = asta i eee :
ee } i" ‘INFO hy :
. ARJUICE HHSPIKE ¥ dnietn EGRET nT eTTSEnN Hy i

a. PACCORDING TO A RELIABLE SOURCE, CIRCA MED-NARCH 187% FIVE
“ PAPAH MEMBERS. LEPT BEIRUT FOR AN UNIDENTIFIED LOCATIONS EITHER 1N


‘euesecuacster
"AYS KH: — TO GFIRUT Al :

THEIR DESTINAS

As sua. ARIF: | FORGED
LEBANESE Passport IN THE -NAME OF MITRI a i SuBUJECT
WAS LATER Ls IN, THE OFFICE

eoccon nie oorsas :
PRODUCTILS dren OTHER THAN THE IBBUING OFFICE IB an



+ “ON BB AAR 4 Tue orner UNZDENTIPIED hehe ERS, Se Patan aLso
TRAVELED TO BOB!

AN INDIVIDUAL mW

a  )
o BENEZADS



MADE BY POLE!
EMGARNETSS LE:

AGO).
8 EMGARNET

Tod REPORTED 8 amy Twat “euanne SCH un

—s OG He
20/-89 992.



(posi CRN UO Cites
pane 3 6 apr RmeLEse rs CCR ESETE Lee 7
i Vue,

i: OCD oFEACS POLETICAL UaeD POTE
Sarto. Bunioge B Cio Chorin Soteers ta Epectem FCO Gee 2 age VE FS

7 fvest} tes Suetassso Commintet gurty {Pct} toray seserte¢ Gut tf sts Julian Peres
Decemas presidcet be iLL persecute PCD aemders, Tas MD Political Cammstios, ino

: Press stateneas seat Lo Retin CLITA, Lec tsates thet Julien Peres bas cotreatos ans

‘ Pestpones Rig Sctisemmunlet offensive, Te forasy cosirane if the mtions) beekage

Bens COMMSSOLED ROE SESertSS LEst Be VOUS Gide loee the AeRes OF COCR GnSaST Of TRO |

Oemmsndo party LALTRSLES POO itiens VITA the govereneat, Reivers

Ceo PED 2460 ta Ito statement Unas Julisn Peres may diatee thet he mover Gots Ot,
Jn fret, he contrectets minseds, retreats ant to evetaing © politisal soarrontetion
Om Which becom only ese, Toe PCD olse pointe out trot Ale Pietensns wae noting
Wat @ gress dies

WIGHASNTP 18 SUGAR PRODUCERS CUTS GPPOSED
* gente Pontnge Redte Clarina Watwert im Mpentan 8200 Cut 8 age 16 TE
| EEEOEEERESEERELOTEEEOTE
{text} We hove tnatatontiy seid that te beleng to the fonous Union of Latin Anerte
Gan Sugar Produserteste which the Mailippines haa boom sddedoots not (word -tnaiosines)
Le

or benefiotal te the Dowinisan Repudite becouse there $0 8 AOI sfferense between
producing ond eaperting countrice ond in their rerpestive interests,

Wo have also eritieized the neice of limitations imposed on the Dontatean Republic
by virtua of meotings hold and commttnents scquired, those limitations and conmite
ments are. made in: exchange for nothing because & sountry that produces suger but doce
nob export 1t has nothing to lose tn agreeing to. Limitations on ite free right to
megotiate, te sell, and so forth.

‘y Right now the Philippines has acquired a contrect on suger sales fer eo S-year period
-) + with a U.S, refinery amounting to 650,000 tons anally, “Dia the Dominican Republie
‘now anything about this? Or di@ At learn about it, as we d14, from internaticns)
| Bebe Gispatches? het pricr consultations vere made? . How does this (tagree) with
the famous meetings and agreements of Cosunel, Puerto Plata, Lins and calit

WP fs not that ve believe the deal with the Milippincs will have any effect on the
price of sugar or the market; hovever, we take the opportunity to stress this example
\ and make known tho reactor: ve Rave had and have to criticise the Dominican Republic's
v qntey am an internations’ group from wiieh wo wilt get no benefits.

AUTHORITIES DEXY ARRIVAL OF ABTI-CASTRO LEADER

Banto Domingo Radio Clerin Hotwerk in Spanish 2200 ont 3¢ Mar 76 PF:

fexcerpts) Xb is not. true thet enti-Castro exile. Urtaro Dozch
“Republic, migration Director General Commodore (Rot) Enrique Ro‘ael Valdes Videurre ©
@eolared today, He added that a report to the-effect that Dr Bosch had been expelled
* from Coste Rica to our country was journalistic epsculstion, ‘the report had been
wade in Ban Jose, Costa Rica, lest night by a. spokesmay for the goverment of President
Daniel Cauver, 7 : ‘

the Foreign. Rolations Secretaria: today also pointed cut thet 1¢ had no knowledge that:
Bosch had been expelled to our country on orders of the Costa Rican Supreme Court .
efter many countries consulted by the governnent of that Central. American country
pefused to admit the anti-Castro exile.

Fas, bY 67 Cea) GApe 7



GOIN” MeSsace

13-

~od3000
Hiee omate or. J

0 mme 1 Se

Oem 0 AT
ERA, BUREAU oF

vou Secret senvtceesngieLtcence OIVISTON BNF
IWVES TEGaTEOMs/dutCLLICCHCE OLVISIONY

ators

7 DETERMINE: DATE OF AUTOMATIC):

BASED ON? Sai

RECRET



MHEG Sass oMsasle
eA 2508

JU Ognn8s ae te : Ae Sistas
; ER DIFECIONs FRE : :
1D MLE bUN. OPUTY ATTOSNEY oereone ae i
TAVTNN ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION UNTT Seely

RUEDUIA-ALSESTANT ATIONNEY Gere PRs CRIMINAL DIVISION
ATID INTERHE. SECURITY TEC TION

LATING GENERAL CRIMES. SECTION

BUEALIA-DIPECTOR. CIA

RUSHSELU.S. SECRET SERVICE «PID

RUENC-SECRETARY OF STATE.’

| RUTATRS/DEPARTNENT OF TREASURY

Atti

BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO AND FIPEARMS

UNCL.AS ae
7 rae
ANSUBE THREAT. TO BOMB costa RICAN CONSUL: MIAMIs FLORIDA:

ey e—x_——EE Ee



PASE WHO LE FUEIED cuce? URCLAS

j OE mtoony reLenee 10 Tr HUPERU DATED WC es 1976,

i E GH PHIL Fo EDPGe OR, DIEGO LOPERs COLIM WECom COM,

SIAL FLOKIDGs ADVISED THAT HE HAD FECEIVED m CECUND LETIC®

BISECTED TO THR COEUR GENERAL DF COTTA BICR UIC MDE @

PMMp beacons NE BReodId oF we LETYER UAT MADE AVAILATLE

STE MIAME OPP ICT. te on APRIL Se 8976, THE LETTER vs ate

SP ANLEN AND AOI MAES FEFEFENCE TO DR, BOSCH DELIGVED 10

BE DR, DPLANDO BOSCH. THE LETTER NOYES THAT IT WILL BE CosTLY

TO THE COSTA RICAN CONSUL FOR WAVING TURNED OVER DR, BOSCH 10

THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC SO THAT THAT GOVERNMENT CAN RETURN: DR,
BOSCH TO A UNITED STATES JAIL. -

. THE LETTER WAS enven WITH THE SENTENCE THE BOMB IS READY,

» THE. Letter ts SIGNED: SIMILAR AS THE FIRST WITH THE SIGNATURE ~~.

‘. SECRET SERVICE AGENT PHILLIP Linpsey, Minels FLORIDAs

WAS CONTACTED ON APRIL 3+ 1976 REGARDING CONTENTS OF THE

F 4 LETTER.

BT

, 0022

fe iad



SSE Unt OU



REVIES GF RREESET RECEST TRAFFIC O¥ SOSCE/wuICH-SoMEvERT a
* CQRFLICTISG;—-FESBS -TO-TsbI€AFE THAT BOSCH HAS PROBABLY BEY 18 DOWREP

“SINCE CARLY PART APH 76, POLLOUING DEPORTATION +400 costa RICA. at
Scene BS EMGARSET 2,

WITH GOOD ACCESS TO LOCAL
Veet *~* CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY AND TO DUMINICAN CHIEF OF R&S POLICE, EXE :
~- GEN, NEIT 4 3 VAR, REMORTED THATXRESEZEM ON 5S APR 76 THAT HOSCH - f i

“uss Paper ninady aeeee-RNH THAT HE HAD. ARRIVED FROM COSTA RICA Wits iz ; : i
aa BALBE/COSTA RICAN BAR PASSPORT PROVIDED 8Y GOCR, AND THAT EvTRY To"
DOMREP WAS APPROVED BY DOMINICAN PRESIDENT BALAGUER, EMGARNET-1.

- CONFRONTED N(VAR WITH THIS INFO WHO SUBSEQUENTLY RAISED QUESTION WITH |
~..BALAGUER, . BALAGUSR REPORTEDLY ADMITTED TO NIVAR THAT HE HAD: ALLOWED .
-BOSCH TO TRAVEL TO DOMREP ON “HUMANITARIAN” GROUNDS 80 THAT BOSCH
: COULD RECBIVE"CATARACT OPERATION," AN ARTICLE IN SAN JOSE NEWSPAPER,
ua MACION” AS WELL AS AN FBI REPORT DATED 8 APR 76 FROM A aIGHLY-
‘ wEeE [PLACED ACCION CUBANA SOURCE IN PUERTO RICO" ALSO INDICATED |
THAT BOSCH WAS BEBGEZER FLOWN, TO ‘THE DOMREP FROM, COSTA RICA,

taboos

|
ah |
3. BMPREDICT COVERAGE INDICATED THAT BOSCH was IN DO ‘DOMREP {
WN re WAS. A herb...

]HE WOULD TAKE NO INVESTIGATIVE ACTION. =

apeaeaa

EING HANDLED OUT OF PALACE BY PRESIDENT

AS OF 3 MAY 1976, Bosca “i
HOTEL CERVANTES IN SANTO DOMINGO. a

“WBI REPORT WHICH JUST RECEIVED :
Gaeebads oN a RECENT CBA CUBAN RrGaTIe®, Meee awas Saunt

ARE PEW IF ANY WXet MOUNTAIN: IN" IMMEDIATE VICINITY oF ‘save fae
)MINGU, “HOWEVER; GENER NIVAR 18" FAMOUS FOR HIS HOUSE" LOCATED tx THE
CLOUsS “*-ON-TOP or A HTOK wouNTACY NEAR SAN CRISTOBAL AND-BAN, lise
Y GANTO DOMINGO,. IN VIEW OF INDICATEONS OF PRESIDENTIAL INTEREST

i" THIS ‘CASE, 18; iT POBSIOLE THAT NEVAR SIGHT BE CLOSER TO THE i

Bo iS eg



400000 sseen .

|
ve
| ei



oh cn eise

SvtS 29272

SEC Re T erer9c2 “ar 76 Star

cite
ot DIRECTOR TAFO
| AYBAT VeLOFTY
ner: Col FIMEOY.
3. UPON RECELeT oFf DIRZcTcR a8
. MUPABRIC (nUSuIe-a) Ta ADVISE OF =
THE LIFE OF wascan ALLENDE. aS JasThusiTda ay ees
HUG. 1698 SAID THE Sax

Ini

RECEIVED ay FORE iGR WINISTER coawiLe &. FaCiG F 30x tee
VENERUELAN SQVERNNERTs FACIO HAD ALREADY BAS 383 ez he

: “FORMATION To “tee hUF ABRICS, Prior TO WYUGLTS ats
+ RECEIPT OF THE INEGRMATION

mB wad ayrdacy
PERSONALLY VISITES ALLENDE To Kann AUT OF Sad teagary

Lee me



UA BRCION, hives 1° do cielt do TM
Pie tese, ete Po

‘pesar dy iss ‘declare eo
Petones-hecha~ sor funelond~
wieg dal Goblerno dominice-.
eae ‘un hecho que el exd- — Schif
cubano, Uder- antleo-

cesses RS

en an



—, - re ae i
coda aes a ppm 7 on

> aeercrc ee

YT 622364 ELASa4 PAGE O{-81 SUN 675824

TORt3215272 MAR 76

SEC RE T 31415062 MAR 76 STaFF
(LC Senn SEESESEESEEEES |
Tos Directors [
fe eas Qwesss12

2s: ALTHOUGH LOCAL PRESS oF 38 MARCH REPORTED VARTOUSLY
twat Savanna 8 9S C H AVILA HAD BEEN DEPORTED To DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC OR EUROPE» ACCORDING TO HUFABRIC#14 ON 30 MARCH»

BOSCH WAS IN FACT DEPORTED FROM COSTA RICA ON FRIDAY, 26 MARCH.

“ON OVERLAND ROUTE TO NICARAGUA,

2s FILEH 2@aezeeze2, G2 INPDET,



Penson uur woriteD, | stcaer a ] feouime coveca ns Senet
= vf

¥ 737196 Ela722

PAGE 61-01

TORtB522532 MAR 76

SECRET 9522482 man 76 STAFF
cite :
Tor pirector,

ner ind $35 $55)

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-_299292_
50 x07 STROY

; 1
2. OF POSSIGLE INTEREST FOR HOS ey ERYTHROID-33 H
wo 'e :
NOTIFIED rwatouazzo Sh 4 _ ERA PEREZ OBTAINED 1

NICARAGUAN EXIT PERMIT ON 5 MARCH FOR TRAVEL TO UNITED STATES,
DATE OF WIS PROPOSED TRAVEL 1S UNKNOWN. PER REFs PALOMERA
1S ProgagLy TRAVELING ON COSTA RICAN PaSsPorT NUMBER 3208069

WHICH CONTAINS VALID FOUR YEAR MULITIPLE ENTRY U.S. VISA GOOD
UNTIL JANUARY 1977, PALONERA 1S CUBAN NATIONAL WHO IS.
APPRENTLY CLOSE CONTACT OF LpALA SCH AVILA
“TERRORIST AND LEADER OF ANTI©CUBAN GOVERNMENT GROUP KNOWN

AB ACCIGN CUBANA,

_ @e NO PELE, Ga. Supper,



FROM DIRECTOR, FRT

TATE APSE 1976

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: THREAT TO BOMB GOSTA RICAN Cc

FLORIDA

PRON DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 30 MARCH 1976
CASSIFICATION: UNCTASSIFTED

SUBJECT: TIRFAT TO ROMR COSTA RICAN CONSUL, MIAMI,
oe FLORINA, MARCH 29, 1976...

ONSUL, MIAME, f°
i

fee aan ie

weapanbshi sie ae

Haw

salen


San De ce

at
K martes 7 ''y mares te: Mt

CoS uri Mead, Bee mpsae on New York
fechas Humanca “Bl el ses ecu her
he Ministro de Beguridad de C.
Publica despuda de haber rigen anticomunuata G,
manifestsdo pablicamente Bosch, contreata con la ar
que no le importabe que sumida com eb tetreruta
mersvta Allenda quien
ra en hwelaa de hanbre, disfruta on nusatic pela de
anuncia ahora —sin todos log derec! yO
Mvdidades necesarive brine
gic ‘bor las wafers’ ufte

lea.

4Cual es Ta readn pare,
inantonvr alalada al Dr,
Bosch como

fee un
delincuente eomidn? aPor
GUé No ge permite wor vine

Un médica de au

asistencia médiea, ello he
ido obligados por Is pre-
sién del Movimiento Costa
Rica Libre que amenisd
on denunclar efta actitud
ante Amnistia Internacio-
nal

aii 5 RS ae mot 3% Sake
Extraiiq aislemiente del doctor

explicer en torma clara y

t
raat
i;
0 por , t
qua sole manticna ineos \
¢xiste tomor que el Dr. Gre ty
lando ine
iat we ,
“El safloe Ministre, dabe ”

in irritarse; " todaa ‘ cata


wes sobarea

ecsts ace

BO GORRADGRET warts. TO ACCEPT Cones SEIS He

Donane City 86s tn Spanien OER) CaF 19 mae 16 8S

{test} Sen soso, Coote bisa, 18 marcos fete ef exiles Cumen looese Oriente
Veen complicates by the £208 Urat ag goverment ta Uns hesingnese 1o wibling 2 g7ens

bam torvetersed oo7 hm.

Wwummite, Rosen degen today his Tt day oo 6 banger owtm unten
Ottontion to Ais cade, and $a ascopting enly water tn Ate cob ta
WAS OF Sen Jose, where he 18 deLAg hold,

peosn vas deprived of. hie frecten when Rib presence ond Lilegsl entry tate Coote Hise
were proved, tte used @ Cabloan posepers with & false. cane to enter the cowmtry omer ty,
pefere U.8, Secretary of Stat. Henry A. Biseinger’® ereeesad visite &

Besen's dopertasion hes been ordered, bub RO goverment hoo. show any vi lbinane
Pecoive Aim, Today, Voveign Affaire Minsoter Consale J, Facto ney
Rot previeusly consultede-one of Uw 1eteas So be appreved=raste caplaineds The rooulta
OF Uese negettations wore negative. :

Apparentiy, Boseh's guerrilla background influcnees theoe Tejeetions. ,

ha anti-castee Wenter elaine to be 8 vistin of the eipeles unten footer

With Prine Kinieter Picel Castro's

PROTO OM CUBAM-COSTA RICAN RAPPROCHEMRIT

tn 8 Comte

Fecenai ttatien

regina,

penena City ACA in Spanish 06 CHP 23 War 76 PA coy et

[rexe) Ban Jose, Costa Rica, 22 Mar--(ACAN-ZPE)=-Costa Rican foreign Kinieter Gonsalo
Je Pato this afternoen rejected critioisn bynevenen vno have said he is propitiating
a rapprockenent with the Cuban regine, Pacio said that the Castroite adventure in
Angola and the proletarian internation lisa doctrine it reprosents have throw ¢o!

water on the possibility of renewing relations with that island, * zal

ee minister tims! responded to a newspaper editorial vnich noted the dangerous inclina=

* don of the Poreign Ministry toward reconciliation with Cubo at a time when, according

te the comentary, the Havana regine bas decided to enberk on an expansive end aggressive

+ foreign policy."

Facto rejected this criticism and

affieiala fron other ministries said or did efter their trip to Cuba. Sane have pra:

the aysten in effect there.

freed his pinistry from ell responsibility for what

Teo foreign minister céanented that the adventure in Angola and the thecry advanced by
Gubaeaccording: to which 1t 49 prepared to back indurreottons proviksd:., by ‘communtat
povenente--are very much taken into account by Coste Rica end are considered to be
@nough Fensen for cooling the possibility of @ renewal of relations with Havana,

Facto alec said that he éid not share the opinion of the How York TEMES wich commented
hat. Junaioa an4'Quyana have pecows beachseds for Cuban. penetration in the hamispaere.

Fak, be™ 57 Cin) 03m 7%

ave



CABLE VROM DIRECTOR, FRE
DATE: 17 MARCH 1976.
STASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT; ACCTON CUBANA

zy



too ae. MARL
tar sere
variara su vida==
en ae
ae pamererys
i cesoee
Toteg 6
RS como erroris a =: antes
i
Pkevgerahcl-icakdietomectebrc ke ii erect torent:
S| Gt iowomrs sercevers cima See
| OR] Suet ects Cyrearene RSS aetigsecsaneane ara. cn'zs gucawe veumu p'ce - sacs camvestwoases pane BES SNS,
NI 8 pinma cote Eaten veiteas toes Vocaase goes econ tna wo Senne, Me
N Ae: Se OHG @ LO 866 Wb Mesle chase One Gori; le of prepa tm lene cee Germbe . ohetd FOS Lieee
i Nl Oe tes ome esvene: ce hebig Maske He eteds pe  agietcde bh pene Be. bon pocive toot
O8 hast 0 G0 et Gries edivet mtslicus Dame 8 atichels be turer 9 — belig 69 otse lade que SOY N et
| Bo 0 led OR Kwerqeret po ques be DeRels Mums LUST | ald Os Oli om. el mee 8elIed em 68 bw £0! G0 God 0
: 0 Ainesca pet tan vorenes

aventeres oa que oe
Savecite on ou large 6 wee:

COME SSS Re pptter settee Sepntg eat: te Te motte on we semitones Heqteurry
Roy erereveyeryrsy

Wle  cetedme, FO Cvehio oly Bt aee
fiwmes (aides O8 Nveve  fiemlame be feimeée wd UNL." buncd te aaiemte Aes
beta eda contteel rogue, Vou Se oawulat wa ett Uslomcaie Wcumpet oe, 14) em fied la pre on eve
wrvetice co Mian y doi
= _Weec de Wd eten de ead Grenas's Cucte Mics pore ‘itan 0 oat putesiio 6 a "tuna to lame asimunmo Sh T08 6
waaeHOr Custre le vide Get eaicet de Cottage, thesB lus,» 6h hombre que Ba tendo que i114 genereat
detae Risinger. Guranta Me dusemente talasiugeds: WF selves le dy lentes ver Hasge atcem
Ohuerttopels, clues gat ue ageite be le con mancitleds dot pueblo noney,,
he Ulegeda a ner muy cunurt Central de tateigencte huts cubana, “puss algvien Went Leeiiag aban
Ge on of sminto latimamery —feamericand, segue mdal: poner on alte mu Be thoee uem
Cane y con bua anlecedenias § — fgata pelguia’’, Allens, Mia
rras peices to han rivstra =" Ue eater macho, con ef Alirma tambide que 8 ia sy Kye L,
£2 inerwnadon on date aah pelo chute, hablande con par de wa rents conlnede eq a hau
erwnle inglés y acompanado 5 uct ar
Peodienton, varias “cuentas ge'uapertita aldera tubeno men 6e Fidel ede ha
‘oun te jysticta. * de apeiinde Monendes ortuve Asegure que, “hemos C88 ciegar a Cus
Giatruta en lacéreet a tnterrogarme ea la Yerce  tigade duramente af sre ese tlamade
de una libertad de movie C Ha, unas in go en Ame Wael Ca una enttevist
mientoe res y ba. claire: et fo dire eater oo ‘Actualment
caplado tia de todas, las, me v a
pt pa Saas premuntas, Area eleeeaina's 7 en huelga 00
m cemunisme cubano, cual

cannon a de
Sain ente ‘que
ath timplan Uy a

infuencis-en A
a Ain acu fer

q

*ggoate tol
burtoemerie:
{ taidaro eo

a
ng falsely
Nig cubano stacd nunca 4
netonarlus norteumerl: .



ies/Judiciales <

:nde Bosch no
lara su vida

oterrorista

8 Qeertanded 62 qu bo an aed Os we ame Ld
‘mahend O06 Sep tobe Baers Go cote sents Get
Re cabo Gampuctoneents Orr oy we Kendsy sebsans 9 oe
prey
"Haske chee ene Gece heme of prinipes he
we Bebdg winks FEU Neds feel Mediate ke pad Se
Barat poulice bod 6
Sole 00 gates Cone at fee
ble 65 ivimel wag 20 dente ee oo oe
[ irae lyre nh a rrerverye ervey Parte :
Sart eaadan 90 Neoe muamtomite be ot SAU, “ance me armen:
Vert. do dinaauter of beyed i etscuents macemperehte'', 114 €2 puns? bos pin on e20
‘mrtetice on Misa 7 de ta aula. pas
‘ghevet ‘tue se Home samen
eumapire ef Bumbre.que Be teaide que
Feverr4 Selves ac: toatas vo
ite eve meaci si pusbio
da tleg ay ‘elguien tiene:
wad qos saber poner 06 ito tu bie
ono y cua Uigeia™. :
pores paises Alirma tambiéa que oo
so tateresados ea darie au rie de va {rente conlinens
i, @1 1 de lucbs contre ol regi:
(adienles, varies cuentas de un perils (aterecubang enon ge Pidel Canta
justicte.* o 7 Nikko Mencades estuve segura que, *' oi
{ disfrute calacdreel 9 Mortogurmns ea la Terce tgede durament
Ite una libertad de movi--

enemis
fe Compania, Aunque int go en America” y cita el ca-
Slalmente acepte revpondes. $9 del embajader cubano on
Gunes preguntas, me lacing Argentina, “el enlace entre
. la tequierda argentina y ¢1

ras comunisme cubano, et cual
enilagrosamente de

cy

"-Opina firmemente que
Garlep end empliant soe.
infivencia en Améri-

ame.

Re one bee CuREs GS Nater
a ere

Fae pines fas wes eager
10 bce Som male pers et
pekste lovwes of Uabetee
Ge Cute Rae he me Om
Vt08 oabnde quiet oa. tim ted
Obs be ne tees oe cay
Uegue 1 pide taverse
Agrege rade odelente

A pees 68 tude tact Of
erpiesd o0 tains congrens
de (tule Keron of 0:
fle graciues do oe

Lege alia ue ot Chute

Abaab
thowh Wend Jenulieres
Atlanta, Mian y Guat
la. bu Biya Lourdes, canede
COR UN Kutoame wens de
‘apeliido Minter, tue.
46 G08 dist deapuse eum,
a Cole Mice, Habla
at mad & par Has
ung entrevista format
Actuaimente Heck eat
en huriea de hanibee come
protesta trata que te
Plaid de, fis eutaridadoas pee
To especialmente, pur ba for

§
i
i
if
\
i
|

!
ued.

atari orncne

baat



gene

“Pel uterogede pas
egesie. act ccsvmse pocrese,

‘Dijo por ejemplo que aqui
i Costa Hica, a

iirma, con @
ja permenecer :
fuera de acelin. 9

tomarse un
no nue laloran’ .
, consitord qe!
uni jul, . ‘

i
i

2375
a
Pe



Ce lanto

3



ye eat

(WNILOLIS ~WSSAGE oo
welts 4 Bi
Q 6

. 2
a ra
3 8 a 8 +

7 -
f
p

(foto cus enee crenpene corarane mene

: \s2os7z _ teem
~ mite thie “iedet gt ae :
day 0 ane rea 7
fend “Bp
Tou scence SERVECE//INTELLIGCUCE DIVISION Ture reverit” ourcau or
TEVESTIGATION//ENTELLICENCE OIVIST ONY :

SC CRE T--WARNING NOTECE = SENSETEVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND 7
RETHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO POREIGH: NATIONALS.¥ :

, SUBJECT! PALONCRA PEREZ. ToNAZIO.Y UES I | .
DPOB! Bb MARCH 39NG. HAVANA, CuBA.y ° ** eae Petit
rere | : oi | 2a reanuany asmuey yo
CIR-33b/020L0-7b¥ > ~ 2 |

. aul

vy IGNAZTO : i
“PAL O@NERA PEREZ OBTAINED A NICARAGUAN EXIT PERHIT oN $ HARCH vy
"A8% FOR TRAVEL TO THE UNITED STATES. THE DATE OF HIS PROPOSED
TRAVEL IS UNKNOWN. PALOHERA PROBABLY WELL TRAVEL ON COSTA’ RICAN
"PASSPORT NUMBER 3208-b4 WHICH CONTAINS A FOUR-YEAR U-S. MULTEPLE
ENTRY VISA VALID UNTIL JANUARY 497%. THIS VISA WAS ISSUED OW AN

_ RHDERGENCY BASIS IN JANUARY 3973 TO PERMIT FALOMERA TO ATTEND.
= ws FATHER'S FUNERAL IN (HE UNETED STATES.¥

ve PALOMERA MAY BE A ConTacT oF" CUBAN EXILE ACTIVIST

ORLANDG BOSC a AVILA. WHO WAS ARRESTED BY AUTHORITIES IN
CATED
1, GRiGe
. UNITE
a)

sane rrans seamemann aoratsa Oats omens
* ARPRODUCTION BY OTHR THAN THE IBKUING CPFICE Is PROMIBITED @ oy + IMPDET
: erat Ch, vs



$3 ¢2>.
BASED ONt

jee

(MPOET |
Asner

3 para: :

. ont pa anc 237 . ee
. ENT CA CAP CNET |
or asia yy
re

pee :
SSAA
eaerairen ne

Stcrer

CLA Maan

«THAR THE ISBUING OPriCa



ee a OO | Oe
i HEHE ES ee tereLe

cue west owe

| i
| ee
H ,
TU oraeees Ty e4ylee 4 1
Toaszaauaze Fea 76 a
' = ad 7
\ : ; Lm 4
SECRET gen0ze2 Fea 76 stare fee cha leio Z Rihol 4 t
fol eae 7 mae DEL Can He
ea * 5 ar 7 ee a
| Fon IMMEDIATE ORECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE set onereed 5 {
2 old i »
| RY@aT VwLorTY i entre it ie
(esses Padgett dd ve ae
| MERE! DIRECTOR 814328 Pavey, ith
i : cet f, i feet
2. FOLLOWING ARE PERTINENT QUOTES FROM EXCELSIOR aRticLe ““* ane¥, i .
; THM Fe
RE Pascar Deehensee le, Re i i
SIXTH PARAGRAPH! "SGSCH, AGCURDING TO INFORMED. | Wiad en Wg

Ure wet

SOURCES ARRIVED WERE WITH A PassPORT, PRESUMED ‘te ue CHILEANT ya,
TO PREPARE A PLOT AGAINST THE LEADER OF THE MOVENENT OF TRE foe

REVOLUT NDER, eee OE Fen :

ELEVENTH (AND FINAL) PARAGRAPHS "THE REVELATION THAT =

“GOSCH HAD ENTERED THE coUNTRY WITHA CWILEAN PASErORT, sraant a

CONFIRMED BY THE RESPONSE OF THE MINISTER OF PUBLIC SECURITY as oe

~ SUPREME COURT, wouns; CONFINM THE THESIS THAT KE GANG WERE- WITH Coakeet My i

“INTENTION OF panryerearive IN A PLOT AGAINST PASCAL ALLENDE,
POLITICAL sours SAID YeSTERCAY".

* PLOY AGAINST PagcaL, a THAT SOURCE WAS pnoaguy SOMEONE IN
LOCAL GECURITY BYRUCTURG, CAN EXPLORE WITH HUFAGRIC IF PHIe
ee : eGcrer see

- “



ene ee ; 1
aren > : . iene
(ee oa
.

[2a j
: .
\ ’
i gta}
‘|W ieees egazs7 PAGE B2-u2 Pw aioe ion
| . ToRtzegvezz Fee 76 i ; See

DESIRED, a :

3. BASED KNOWLEUGE THAT HUFABRIC AWARE BoscH
BACKGROUND OF BOMBINGS aND POSSIALE THREAT TO

SECRETARY KISSINGER DURING VISIT. PLUS HUF ABRIC KNOWLEDGE. THaT
PASCAL LIFE MIGHT BE THREATENED, “WUFABRIC OR OTHERS CouLD

WAVE PUT TWO AND TWO TOsETHER, HUFABRIC CONCERNED .
FRos:

ARRIVAL PASCAL HERE ON 2 FEBRUARY THAT SOMEONE MIGHT WISH
TO ELIMINATE HIM, €2 IMPDeT.



Year 9s rae ete pian

aaa

TY 746286 elad7a PAGE 21°82 TN 853352"

S$ EC A-E T 1823162 HAR 76 STAFF
erreL i
TOL DLRECTOR INFO
REFs DIRECTOR gi9272

oy GNA: PALO R.
ee BOSCH WAS STILL BEING HELD BY COSTA RICAN

“O° AUTHORITIES, INDICATIONS ARE THEY HOULD LIKE TO DEPORT HIM BUT
: ARE HAVING DIFFICULTY IN FINDING AN APPROPRIATE COUNTRY.
3. FILES Sos-299292, €2 IMPDET. i

_30/—'399 292 |

pres



DATE: 3 NARCH 1976
GLASSTFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ACCION CUBANA (AC)

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEWARK)

i



{ asapeny mere aresninn es a

ouTcoING

MESSAGE

en aE —L

i
i
} .
yj (Secret i a :
\ Foneesed ema meebo oe ete one Cae oo testes eeeverete meeeen
i STAFE- Ogasarz . DIREFCTOR 839272 tos
pea "2A a apartceie TO x ie + = Orssem ars >» i i
; Osan ree SUS ai
si = ia . ™ ears s + '
q Domne 8 el *
i Tos INFO ¥ ah rs
, [— } eae } Pseeeraeted i 7 é
i TRACEY Por : i :
| REFSt Ae VIN 84842] {BEING RELAYED b ied :
Mee ecua IIN aasssst = : cere

“G_ SECRET SERVICE ADVANCE

3. PLS FURNISH :

PEREZ, DPOB lb MARCH 1940 HAVANA, CUBAS REFS THDICATE HE RESIDENT
MANAGUA, NICARAGUAs HOLDS COSTA RICAN PASSPORT NUMBER 3208-b8

~ on ‘a208- bas MAY BE CONTA “BA onLanvo BO SC ¢203-299292)6

Ha@S PLANS NOTIFY SECRET SERVICE AND FAI CF PALOMERA’S Lehn E
bibhkte 0 THE ue sev : sos

- 2 reeRvaY zy : aol
GNAZTO PAL ONERA :

‘4

3. PILES
“Lacconnents

20y-299293. £2 INPDETed . :
PALoneRa OBTAINED NICARAGUAN EXIT PERNIT on S’MARCH ror

TRAVEL TO THE U.S. HE NAY BE CONTACT. OF ORLANDO BOSCH
" AVELAs CUSAN EXZLE ACTIVIST ARRESTEL SAN” JOSE 4
U8 FEBRUARY ON CHARGESPALSE DOCUMENTATION. BOSCH. :
REPORTEDLY, INVOLVED IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE CHILEAN
: ANDRES. PASCAL ALLENDE -IN-SAN JOSEs
M9 sas AIT oe ~~

‘ wate

cee ee

‘ene 7

UE sani. eam

teevonstng orresee
ee AUPAODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISQUING OFFICE 16 PROKIRITAR.

GAL ALCAN ase

200-6 ¥PY.

IMPDRY

ea
ch BI

ie BVogusay

oocyst Get



FBI DOCUMENTS

CABLE FM DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 7 MARCH 1975
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DATE: 6 MARCH 1975 :
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
FBI FILE NO: 105-1742 (MIAMI)

age
ei
ct ees



spac gercenmsomutnuperergerte AME

re om

$ March: 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/LA/CAM
FROM: c/LAD

1. In a meeting with Assistant Secretary Rogers today,
he told me that he had learned from Foreign Minister Facio
that Bosch, at the time of his arrest in San Jose during the
Kissinger visit, had two recently issued passports from the

- current Chilean government. Facio also said that 10 to 12,

fersons also had come into Costa Rica with Bosch but the
‘osta Ricans do not know who they are nor have they been
‘able to locate them. I mentioned to Rogers that @ U.S.
Secret Service agent had interviewed Bosch. : seeeets

= 2. __Im view of State's interest in this case, I suggest

you rent, to find out the number
@£ these Chilean passports and to whom they were issued.
‘Also it might be worthwhile to have a summary of what Bosch
‘and the U.S. Secret Service agent talked about,



“= QUIGUING- MESSAGE

os kt
ow 9 0 Oo Oo oO 9 0
poleseiosistat
SECRET .
ean ces HEC Ett ge eee a esertscica meme
STAFF 2724N2Z DIRECTOR _ BbN388 ya Gite
coe PUNE v00: rx hPa, ofsecuns efisoli, 9 =, 4
: ; orspre4, fitlas DDO" 0 mmm ves “A i
’ poofe, foe cf PE Fue iG ‘
Toe IMMEDIATE INFO FHNEDIATE ¥ .
“RYBAT VULOFTY ¥ mainaees ese ntelT G, a!

‘-| per, (tam sasusal crecaved to [UP
3s PLEASE ADVISE WHETHER REF “EXCELSIOR” ARTICLE CONTATNS J
| | avtrreutzon FoR ‘ALLEGATION THAT BOSCH INVOLVED IN PLOT. AGAINST
Gaede PA ESR MLE RE oF OnE ae
MEXCELSTOR” OR GOCR KNOULEDGE/PRESUMPTION THAT BOSCH PRESENCE IN
COSTA RICH POSSIBLY CONNECTED WITH PLOT AGAINST PASCAL? ¥
_ Bs WS HAS ADVISED SAIC MASTROVITO OF SUBSTANCE REF.”
CMASTROVETO REPORTS: THAT SUBJECT. OF PASCAL NEVERO BROUGHT UP EITHER.
BY HIM, BY BOSCH OR BY HUFABRICS.¥ i ;
“- "g, PLease keep [__JABVISED OF ALL PUTURE DEVELoPrENTS IN
“THES MATTER. 2 INPDET.d ;
UA CONTENT! SAN JOSE DATLY "EXCELSTOR™ CARRIES 2h FEB ARTICLE THAT ORLANDO BOSCH”
AVILA, IN ATL IN COSTA RICA, UAS INTERROGATED BY NORTH AMERICAN

SECURITY AGENT. ARTICLE ALSO REPORTS ALLEGATION BOSCH: CONNECTED WITH
PLOT. AGAINST CHILEAN ANDRES PASCAL ALLENDE. CURRENTLY IN COSTA RICA+

MOTE: US. WHO. INTERVIEWED BOSCH WAS SECRET SERVICE OFFICIAL.

SCANS = {ORAPT
POR? C/TIK = {TELECOORD
OPS/LSN/TD ~| {TELECOORD?

os

wee
jn eLGEoRAE AGM, \

{

t

| osnienieanl REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE ID PRONIDITED a3 wpoeTt
Secner CL BY) cgsusey '

ot anime iil

een nnn grannies Cemaenan es oeamamteore tan G88



find é oak ae Zr. 50P

You = JnMEDTaT

y
ATTENTIONS JANES MICHAEL NASTROVITO.¥
SECRET

HAS REPORTED
Y NEWSPAPER
TITLED “BOSCH


V3CU HIN BUT CO nor ACCEPT. THE Fact THat an ancaacin AGENT WOULD.
INTRODUCE HIMSELF INTO THE COSTA RICAN POLICE SVS

INTERROGATE
WIA. THE ARTICLE: FURTHER MENTIONS THAT BOSCH ENTE OSTA RICA
ar

WITH AN TLLEGAI LEAN PASSPORT AND ALLEGEDLY cam COSTA RICA IN
CONNECTION WITH, A}PLOT AGATHS i THE CHILEAN ExTLE /anoRes A ASCAL

f ateenpe.v
on
ios ® |

‘STATUS. ane 4 Pes

ftw aaaess!
. HUFABRIC FEHUFABRIC- 2482
OBJECTIVE Lo ?

 iMPORT
te BY naueay



GREAKRO = wes : eearte! ete

Wi. Ry we 16 . ae .

HS advantage 62a oe timed ond no good ccnalusters rescne¢ frem 6 visit vaieh Last.
Jess than a Gay bné Daring walea te tpea for only 8 baif hour with esen fore tea
winister, the f1ret secretary of tee Soviet tmnasey 8816.

Un tats regard, Bostalist sstion Party Deputy Ser! Valverde sai6 Kissiogar's wists
wae © failure for U.S, impertalisn, since tre eniefe of stete une had tawited
Re thw wneting G0ided art te comm, sorsigering br Hiseinger's vielt of Little interest,

.
i

‘
1
H
‘

Bothing ena to achioved ta oush 0 short ported of tim, ti Soviet erfielal eats,

t Pogarcing forme President Hisea's visit to the 7ac, the Soviet offiotas sate ts vias

mot effect Savi foreign poliey tm ary vay, It to only enother of the any tourist
GP courtesy trips to tre FAC, Tis $9 vig we Go rot attribute any Laportance te tt,
be onte.

Raguring Pico) Castro's partioipation tn the CPSU congress whieh tegen E deve ego t
W senold Mosclov. e016 all countries in the vorld wre represented at the congress pat i

Wat that the visitors sere participating 6s observers in the discussions of unas the

Bovied people have done eng will do in the £1016 of development. eH

tee Govtat erfiotal aid regarding Cuba's intervention in Angola: The Cuban Governsent
$e helping angola Previously, vnen the U,3.. Governasnt
Dlosiad aid to Cuds, the latter had to ask for the Sovist Union’

was being eutfocated by the economi. blockade imposed ty the
fre Angolan people nad to oak for Cuba's help because the United States refused
Balp and in addition vas blocking aid.

fqn thin tavue of the peeplos! Liverstion struggle the lea Liss with the United state
the first secretary of the Soviet Tadassy concluded. is -

CUBAN EXPSLLED FOR PLOT AGAIIGT PASCAL ALLEID® ,
Panama City ACA in Spanteh 0123 ont 26 Peb 76 PA an
Utacerpt} San Jose, 25 Ped-(ACAN-EFE)-~The Coste Rican Government ordered antic”

* gantre Cuban Orlando Bosch Yo leave the country. m™ is allegedly involved tn'e plan
fo attack Cailean rxist Yeader Andres Paseal Allende, in exile in Costa Ri

* ye wan reported the! Bosch, who entered this country on 19.Reuruary, resiées in the: ~
|, Domtaiean Republic 4nd entered Costa Rice. vith a Chilean passport. 7

te categcrical?y denied any links with suoversive groups ang the euthort! ion were
> nape to prove this aszociation, pu: as a preventive masure tray ordered nin to
Aeave the national territory. -. 7 7 fee “

Lin) 9?

Feb 76



PAGE eb
¥9R32618862 FEB 2
mCoT

Secret 2ca72ee FEB 76 stat
cite
os DIRECTOR,
aveat vucorty.
bad % 38a it aD! cus

: de POLICE AND JUDICIAL PAGE OF LOCAL DAILY PEXCELSIOR®
ON 26 FEBRUARY 1976 cann en Gnrtous ECTS MESSE
INTERROGATED BY A U.S, AGENTS WHO ARRIVED IN THE COUNTRY :
WETH KISSINGER,” ARTICLE STATES THAT BOSCH WAS VERY DISe
PLEASED THAT A NORTH AMERICAN SECURITY AGENT. WHO ARRIVED:

WITH A DELEGATION THAT ACCOMPANIED KISSINGER WAD INTERROGATED
Lal iW A GosTa RICAN JALLy ARTICLE FURTHER STATES THAT
BOSH BALD THAT HE ACCEPTED THE FACT THAT ANY COSTA RICAN”

POLICE OR SECURITY AGENT WOULD INTERVIEW HIM BUT COULD NOT

°. RGSOBT tne pact That AN AMERICAN AGENT WOULD. INTRODUCE HIMSELF :

“UNTO {HE COSTA RICAN POLICE SYSTEM TO INTERROGATE HIM:

ARTICLE FURTHER MENTIONS THAT BOSCH ENTERED WITH ILLEGAL *

SGHIDBAN PASBPORT AND ALLEGEDLY CAME HERE IN CONNECTION WITH A

per AGAINST ANDRES PASCAL ALLENDE. POUCHING ARTICLE, i i

HAGE PAGS AGOVE 70 SAIC MASTROVITO OF THE erent om

Tone
ory | \ ytd
a |

B.0. i>



nl

eee ees oe

| vesace vent wove

H
t

eee

7259008 E2358

SECRET SERVICE.

3, ACCORDING TO HUFAGRICeLG ON 26 FEGRUARY. NO
DECISION YET BEEN MADE CONCERNING BOSCH, ON POSSIBILITY
16. THAT WE WILL BE RELEASED AND REMAIN IN COSTA RICA AND
OTHER POSSIBIL. VIS THAT WE WILL BE DEPORTED.
“me Yer, eoscn,

Secaeet

Pack Gaga

G2 IwepEr

.

Um 659653

. ' YoRtzereeer Fee re -



a
“stare -
congas

‘Tos cae

RYOAT, VULOF TY). 4H: ok
REFS! Ae Izw 8343091

ogy ae Irn aayos7ly

ae Puescatitt-s AND. UKSCARLET- 3. ARE PRIVAT!
Sorxxne FOR PROnEENT VENE: 5

Have NETS

LATE 1975- D. area TO DETERN! le

LETTER GOrBs

=
o
a
2
=)
3
e
a

ih ASKS PURPOSE. OF e323 VISIT TO cost
+ Bell Wo3 ADVISED OF BOSCH ARRESTS str
TRAVEL TO'COSTA RICA

oa 7
Gb, BY ORUEEY
:

i
i
|



"REFI DIREGTOR

“SERVICE (DINAI H

~ GASTRO’ GROUP F.

SECKET 2:
cite
Tot IMMEDTAT!

IN 834062

WIACT DIRECTOR’

RYBAT VWLOFTY

1. WKTANGOEE]iT«

ANO BOSCH, FOR.
SHOT AT PASCAL,
ENTER COSTA RIC,

‘opvidUsLY UNAWal
SOURCE WKTANGO
2s ANMEt

CONTRACTED WITH THO GROUPS. |
SASSINATION. or PASCAL. CASTRO

F BOSCH ARREST.) WKSCARLET= "UNAWARE oF
INFO, (0
9s3ca5 260-0485,



SECRET SERVICE CABLE

FROM SECRET SERVICE ADVANCE SAN JOSE 105
DATE: 21 FEBRUARY 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: RE ARREST OF JUAN BOSCH AT THIS LOCATION



|) ea at nan or LE 2a rors cara PP Senne
| Ett secett | 22 SeoRIe

"¥ 7e27ee ELAN

In 634109

ToR1 2322142 FEB 76

SECRET 2221238 Fee 76 STAFF

f cite

| 101 THMEDIATE INFO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR,

! AveaT. VMLOFTY fs) ; i
ners (1 & 95905) 7 a
fe [TELL WkSCARLETSS JrHaT. BASED ON INFO PASSED i : cen
BY FBI. BOSCH HAS BEEN TARGET oF INTEREST FOR ee

ONE, YEAR, AWARE OF BOSCH BOMBING BACKGROUND AND :
THEIR INTEREST IN WIM INCREASED AS RESULT SERIES LOCAL BOMBINGS. AND va

IMMINENT VISIT OF SECRETARY KISSINGER, THROUGH THEIR INFORMANTS
+ PMEY LEARNED THAT BOSCH GETTING SUPPORT LOCALLY (HOUSING eres

THAT WE USING Nave CONRADO CORTEZ OR CORTES.HRNDs IN EARLY FEBRUARY).
_ THAT HE KNOWN.

@ USING A CHILEAN PASSPORT IN ANOTHER NAME,
IM LATE JANUARY THEY PINPOINTED NETGHBORHOGD IN WHICH HE WAS LIVING
ND BEGAN INTENSIVE SEARCH (THEY ALSO HAD REPORTS OF 413 PRESENCE
W DOWNTOWN AREA), THROUGH POSTAL AUTHORITIES AND GTHER LOCAL
QURCES THEY PINPOINTED THE ENACT LOCATION OF HIS HOUEE IN

‘SF JARDINGS o8 CaReAyAL AND ARRESTED HIM (THIS DONE BEFORE

nessa

WAS ADVISES BY Hes VEA AG To HIS BxaCt
BOCATION? +» ALL ABOVE CAN OG PASSED 70 WeS AND HE SHOULD



Y 792789 Erase PaGE e2-82

TN 834189 ..
i ToRI9i22142 FEB 76 . (icine :
Y atso BE CLEARLY TOLD HIS INFO DID NOT RESULT IN Bosen : :
ARREST. : Su eee rai |
-@e RE CONTACT WITH CASTRO WE CAN ONLY SAY THE
FOLLOWING! :

We WE HAVE NEVER DISCUSSED OR MENTIONED CASTRO WITH

SOQ WE DO NOT KNOW [F THEY EVEN AWARE HIS GXISTANCE,
HIS BACKGROUND. HIS INTENTIONS.

Jen: Oe AF THEY ARE. AWARE OF CASTRO'S PRESENCE AT Is NOT

“IMPOSSIGLE THAT THEY HIGHT PICK HIN UP TOO. THAT BEING CASEs Was
COULD ALSO BE PICKED UP (WHICH AGAIN RAISES QUESTION OF. PURPOSE
WKSCARLET@4 AND 3 VISIT TO COSTA RICA). :

The following antton
autdoriccd: chews,

4 apprepr



UU FOUL + MESSAGE
' an senacame. ome
: i mes remeiitreaetlitrecs

onF a o 0 t')

of ccee .

i STAFF 2023s02 prrecrar 610829"

com: Chg ys ro ma forse Osecuey chp sajng 9 ee 2
: esl 5 chee. ve </ovoy, 0 mmm rae

of} ss eter chests. Cipsieca. Yas.

i TOs IMMED: ATE "INFO IMMEDIATE fe

i NIACT FOR geecaeeecaeecaiy Tas. eae

; a 7 oat

: T VULOFTY ¥ Deawube, seeistetite

; REFS! A. HIN aza7osh > 8° Ppaer  _ :

| 8. {RELAYED i “nr (ah :

10006 .

C-. DIRECTOR a@eeed Y

a ScastRa's PRESENCE IN SAN JOSE. AS REBoRTED~ ‘EN? REF Be “aDbs

WEIGHT, UKSCARLET-3'S REPORT THAT CASTRO PLANS TO KILL ALLENDE’S.

Soul) ANfeetouy
VISIT, WOULD BE _ nt te ater ae, BELIEVE IT IS IN-

CUMBENT ON US NOW TO ADVISE HUPARRTES SHAT BKHERALD HAS UNCOVERED

er
. THPORMATION THAT A SERTOUS THREAT, AGAINST THE LIFE OF ALLENDE'S |
NEPHEW, LUIS ANDRES PASCAL. ¥

SOMEONE WILL ATTEMPT TO KILL PASCAL DURING HIS STAY IN COSTA RICA
" < POSSIBLY PASCAL'S Ex COHORTS IN THE CHILEAN MOVEMENT OF THE
REVOLUTIONARY LEFT) {MZR}. ALSO CHILEAN PRESS OF 30 NOV 7S REPORTED

THAT THE ATR Has CONDEMNED PASCAL AS A TRAZTOR AND SEN
BATE:

a

sa

' REPRODUCTION GY OTHER THAN THE I9OUING

NEPHEW. ANY SUCH ACTION AGAINST aucennet o ON EVE OR DURING SECSTATE

COSTA RICAN COMMUNZST PARTY {PUP} FEARS THAT

ft Vy pig We :

seca ane nar anar ann

28
a

Lf



65

ae

7 HIS REPORT, NAY HAVEBBEEN A GO! DRO! PLAY}.
an

OF PRESS'R
SPEED PASC,

PERCEIVES OVERREDING OBJECTIONS.
INFORM HUFABRICS AS oururien ABOVE. ¥



Ft: RYBAT VWLUFTY SGCHART

Ws rssiny

fume wee
Bato. WE

csnct ee wise boot gee Lavy rom cores Zod 2 [mum ov Le
SECRET in

a

4
ba
““¥W0asn~—Elaee “
ee (nae TORIZe1349z FEB 76: i
| |, -SB CAE T eeiysaz Fes 76 STAFF is? t
I ' cite ! eeererreritegei tage fa ce “ saasaet ; | :
' TON. BNMEDEATE ‘DiRECTOR.L i

REFt. DIRCTUR, 810806
4s GUNCUR ADVISING WKSCARLET-3 OF BOSCH ARREST PER PARA 2
REF, AGREE WE SHOULD CONTINUE TRIP TO SAN JOSE. ;

. By BELIEVE FACT UF BOSCH ARREST. AND ALMOST SIMULTANEOUS
RELEASE OF SPECIFIC FLOT INFORMATION RUNS TOO HIGH RISK OF
COMPROMISE maScARLETH3.
; pAAeds:2es~09310101. 200-6-495, Ea, tHPDET.



cers ate
VT a ETO

caere sc Orsseu ov,

Keven oot

\. " +
SECRET: 2eoracz Fea 76 starr

UN 832155.

cit TE

To: imMeDLaTE

DIRECTOR,

REFy

de WE
- DETENTION sooNes

ARREST OF vosen.
PRIOR ARRIVAL’

m3 ON 26 reamuary,

T, Wey shout ALSO BE aavisde

: ' gOSCH MAY ALSO Be ekPeLueo
IP YER, reaso

becibe UF CONTARE With

WitL ENABLE!

e-b095, G2 INPDET



7 Ow

+ pares ARY_ 297%
van LA/CAR/ CARE : a
ware , :
on 22 . v¥
Rae fer ee Crvacean . i
derrarndich CALAVTPR
A ll ple LALA Eo
i al ney wa Aven BY OTHER THAN THE (88UING OFFICE 18 PROMMITED. a3 impoet
SECRET
- "isan

: 0 CUBAN OFFICIAL WHERE HE PERFORMED WELL. ¥

Bx 20/ - SAGC3Y ° peor
| Be Bore 29729% eee re eee

OUTGC-%u - MESSAGE
: vst

(iil ateet: pesbesea Hetsese Jereeeee 'eeeeetet' wonseaed  Hestat

: 3

SECRET

ae BRD sueeeee™ 0 TREE
cow: C/LA IS. wro, me CloPshanr 2 O/skvk f,

Chesrlio, le ef7e8, (as
090, 020/90, cfaivOezTery ,

wos, DISSEN BY:

areaioe ver tA

» Tos inneotatel cfs eso belied Ma

isle VULOFTY - . ec.

be FYE | _SECRET SERVICE ADVISED US’ 20 FEORUARY THAT THEY
“wad RECEIVED TUFORMATION FROM haha _ Syesee THAT ACCION
CUBANA IN MIAMI KNOWS THAT ORLANDO *” “y ? e ie AVILA HAS BEEN
ARRESTED IN COSTA RICA. SOURCE OF INFO. ALDO VERA _ SERAFIN«
SAID THAT A BOMB WOULD GO OFF IN SAN JOSE ON 23 FEQRUARY AND THAT
THIS WOULD BE A "GOOD RECEPTION" FOR DR- rESSINCER. BUT WOULD
NOT, BE AINED AT HIN. Boe . : freee aaseisirereraettrriees

2 VERA, 203-326b34i IS “rornéa” CHIEF OF INVESTIGATIONS
DEPARTHENT OF cuean NATIONAL POLICE. . HE WAS Host. PROMINENT. a é
oF JULY NENBER IN URBAN GUERTLLA NOVERENT IN HAVANA: IN uate ‘2950°S.
‘cane TO U.S. ABouT V459-b0. BAS USED BY BKHERALD IN a APPROACH -

2.0 PILED zo0-b-uasven.! Ea. IMODET.d : .

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-_229297=_.
po Not DEATROY

aay

co]



Tos INMEDIAT,
RYBAT -VULOFTY

REFS: A. DI

ce

SHARE!|

2.

IW a30soul
Izu szougul .
{IN a3zasyol

wT ey
RECEIVED FROM’ CUBAN EXILE SOURCES AND SUBSEQUENT
ile :

tO ys

some re OS

€
-a ue

Cogn:
Wescmer ET hy,

3°IF INFO HE
SSED TO BKHERALD | |

_ IS REVEALED

AND THEY

TAKE ACTION 70:
IN REPORTED ATTE!

BECAUSE OF PROBA
“THEREFORE. SUBVEC

ensaame oormes

Gureneran
secret

“ MUFABRIC THAT HAS. RE cevED TIP THAT. THER!

“INFORMATIONS BUT Loox FOR: Leaks IN THEIR MIDST

ht
yt WILL Not. ASK Gere SERVICES .COTAINED THEIR

usin EXILES INVOLVED”

rea

ADVISE

CIFE oF ANDRES PALS cA ALLENDE.

jepuerion OY OTHER THAN THE

‘goenaruating gorceny

PLACE OF.

ATTEMPT ON

uma iaares gree
& 8  itapher
CL BY; «=OLINS



Jo. Lt ds

eug cas ome = ets wart ne f
7 y
O aa oaseu ers. -
| com; oro: ms Yeetapainas 7
$/0COG 0 mmo me ’
| 6
i Ae -
} @. ALTHOUGH ARREST OF ORLANDO BOSTH AVILA NOT RESULT OF 7
é nN : i
: UKSCARLET-3 INFORMATION, UE HAVE CONSIDERED WHETHER OR NOT HE t

enacted iS St testes ceeds ctsoant shane sates tear sbi asia

SHOULD BE INFORMED OF BOSCH ARREST IN SAN JOSE. WE DEFER TO eee
: HOVEVERs TO ADVISE BEST COURSE. IF AFFIRMATIVE REQUEST ;
ATTEMPT CONTACT WKSCARLET-03 AND ADVISE HIN BOSCH
“ARRESTED, BUT THAT ARREST UAS NOT BASED ON ANY INFORMATION OR
ACTION ON OUR PART. HE SHOULD ALSO BE ADVISED TO CONTINUE TRIP
TO SAN JOSE AS THOUGH HE HAD NO FOREKNOULEDGE OF ARREST.¥ i
3+ FILE: 20)-09328205 200-b-49S.. E2 INPDET+d
LA COMMENT: REF A - ADVISES AGENCY RESPONSIBILITY TO DETERMINE
POSSIBILITY USE AGENCY INFO TO PREVENT HIGHLY IMPROPER fi
: ACTIVITIES SUCH AS PLANNED ASSASSINATIONS.. -
REF; B - ALLENDE WIDOU IN CARACAS- BELIEVE. BEST WE
COULD DO AND STILL PROTECH UKSCARLET-3 IS ADVISE THERE

. MAY Be ATTEMPT ON LIFE oF HENBER ALLENDE FARILY IN
»:  CARACAS.

7 : = | pare)
WoT OC REVEALED.¥ ented : an

REP.€ - PASCAL STILL IN SAN JOSE- REQUEST PERHISSION
_ ADVISE HUFABRIC OF MURDER THREAT.

REF: D il PLEASE ADVISE IF ORLANDO BOSCH ARREST IN COSTA
RICA DUE TO PASSAGE OF U-3 INFO. IF SOv SUGGEST NO
FURTHER DISSEN OF W-3 INFO OUTSIDE {NBUZZ SINCE RISK OF

t .
‘

susteaeoass fe oexnatrn ovens porn
st reer cr ALPRONUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE (S8UING OFFICE IB PROHINITED «= 2) | «IMPORT

Su OYG OLINSS



RECO2DS or;
TORI2917302 Fea 76 | The Tollovsx¢

SECRET 3937002 reg td Svtase
cite]

TOL IMNEOLATE DIRECTOR INFO IHMEDL ATE
“AVOAT VALOFTY

ut
‘ Fesgous and

. ar Sppropri:
REFt DIRECTOR eoozes :
a:

“costa “RICANS ARE ptacussine WOW Long
GaN woud, ‘B08cH ON ENTRY With

TREY

Seca’ | fe %6
: ayn "592 ied
ennai neared oe

Siig



i
4

NO FILE,

Ps i
TORs3917302 FER 76 i

PAGE B2- 62

“e@ Inpper



TOs
RYBAT: VULOFTY

Revs

von HASTROVIT re Q

39230 2 o RECTOR.
was ce fe5fwl, Loa, ob,

Oe) eo, ¢ [oto 2, fa

THFO. Ianeozate” i:

i

; :
Irw eausaaly

| HAS REPORTE:

AT MIDDAY
CA UITH
URS. AT

ARRANGED ~

YEARS ‘AGO INU; ae yo



AN UNWANTED “it
EXTRADITION.

‘Be. |

_
L

THES TINE.V

pare; 389 FEB 7b xf

Ona:
CAATCANITFE

"uw Sag 7

* pECORDS OFFI
“me ‘tortenies ast)
authority



secesr win
cite oe

TOn EmnGolate
RVGAT VWLOFTY.
Rees

i. bitch in Bbovtreaiodn WITH HUFAGRICoL4

WAS BEEN OF INT
. PEBRUARY 1978, :

UT WAS ADVESGS. EY



T0R81929542 FEB 76 . ay . ly

GOVERNMENT CONTACTS. NOT To 00 .S0. BOSCH SOON LEARNED THAT :

THE AUTHORITIES. WERE ATTEMPTING 10 Locate WIMe : t

ALSO LEARNED FROM 17S SOURCES THAT BOSCH WAS ALSO USING THE

WANG CONRADO CORTE (THIS ALL HAPPENED BEFORE HUFABRIC*14

WaS apvEsed THat BOSCH HIGHT GE TRAVELLING UNDER THAT

WANED. oud

cy 4° Ge THROUGH ts CONTACT WITH LOCAL POSTAL .
_ AUTHORITIES AND THE OWNER OF & LAUNDRY KNOWN to BE PROo
1. VEDING SERVICES To gOscH. PINPOLNTED HIS RESIDENCE -
SQN PRIVATE HOME INA SECTION IN THE SOUTHEASTERN PART OF THE
“@LTY OF SAN JOSE CALLED UARDINES DE CASCAUAL WHERE WE was.
PPREMENDED AT 4308 HOURS ON 16 FEBRUARY, eure
tbe “THROUGH ANOTHER SENSITIVE SOURCE,
LEARNED THAT BOSCH was USING DOCUMENTS UNDER THE GARaLGd
VERSION OF THE NAME. HECTOR E. DI AVANEO CINTOLES!,. BASED ON
RAs 48 AND 8 or rer.[__ LEARNED THAT DIAVANZO HAD
RIVED IN COSTA RICA ON 6 FEGRUARY ON COPA FLIGHT S27 FROM
NUGARAGUA, INCIDENTALLY, DOUBTS THAT BOSCH WAS
“IN VENGEUBLA: RECENTLY, i
Abe CAPTOR HIB APpRaHENErON OW ‘a ’

wary, BOSCH



a 3 mro: me : in O move (OISSEM BY:
ae : $0006 B= ;
| : Oicatty

' " ConPRonISE To \W-3 RUNNING TOO HIGH. : He

REF € HUFABRIC HAD ALREADY WATCHED FOR AND LOCATED BOSCH DUE
PREVIOUS TIPS {UNRELATED PASCAL} FROM DEA AND FBI. :
PASSED ONLY INFO THAT.GOSCH HAD GEEN SEEN IN CARACAS
2? FEB AND MIGHT TRAVEL COSTA RICA USING DOCS IN. NANE

coprez”.

7

COORD:

00
A CALASSB

C/LA/TFC

c/tAd eae LA/NU

: meuasone ovraee : snenemenes orsaeee beret etearnen ooniere oa 3
tonneitme AEPROOUETION AY OTHIER THAN Tila IBBUING OFrIC i
PepPre .

Proweites — g- JRpRy,



CABLE FROM SECRET SERVICE ADVANCE.
SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA {- 103

DATE: 20 FEBRUARY 1976

CEASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: SITUATION REPORT NO. 2 FOR THE VISIT oF

SEC, KISSINGER TO SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA
ON 23-24 FEBRUARY, 1976



voran comes =

anioe RICCO

P.

AGE O3
TOR1919342 FéB 76

PRODUCED !

/SCHILEAN PaSSPORT/IN THE NAME OF pe avingo ano:

WAS noT ReWUET ANT To DISCUSS 1 HISTORY OF HIS sone ins
VENTURES,

Ee
Lournes TERES TA 8QSCH DE GRINDER AND HER HUSBAN MARIO:
AUBIN BRINOER, LOURDES WAS BORN IN CUBA ON 47 FI aRUARY
4956" AND ISAN AMERICAN CITIZEN HOLDING U.S. PASSPORT
Gozz67692 assuen ON 6 SEPTEMBER 1972, SHE annived IN THE
UsSe IN 1968 ‘AND CLAINS THAT WER CURRENT apDRESS IS
SOUTHWEST 29TH: TERRACE, MIAMI. FLORIDA, GRINDER WAS BORN: IN

“BUENOS AIRES: ON 27 APRIL 2055 AND. HOLDS ARGENTINE.
7434937 we: CLAIMS. TO HAVE ute IN THE UeSs FO
: WITH 818 rantty AND GAVE A FawiLy ADDRESS OF 436:

a PEORUARY: An o, CHE CH MIGHT: ACCOUNT FOR e8cH!s, RETURN
10 costa Aen FROM NICARAGUA.) THE ORINDGRE ARE NO. LONG
“YNOGA Oe



PAGE 04004
TORI2919342 FEB 76

* RECORDS OFFICER STAMP
The folloring antitpn is

aecrs ru.”



TORI1901552 FEB : ‘

“4023428 FEB 76 STAFF

i .
Tor Inmep tare DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE
“RYBAT wicarry’ a

* REFS

THEM, sci AME ALSO MENTIONED
“AP. NOW DETERMINED THIS WAS BASICALLY ON Far GEWALF.
veaide: “ N 96cAstON OF COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT Dante oo

wat ee S HUGLIG]S, WHO NAD acu
HECKED QUT INFO-'TO NO AVAIL. HIB INFO. WA

utener



_ & _rotat copies

SECRET

ACTION UNIT:

T 6940694 LET A619

‘PAGE 82

TORt1901552 FEB 76

REPORTED Thar HAD DEFINITELY SPOTTEI
Two occasions ON OR ABOUT 10 FEBRUARY, HAD LOCAT:
: AREA WHERE HE was BELIEVED TO BE LOCATED AND HOP!

4a ON-7 FEBRUAKY INFORMED HUFABRI
FouLow wwa} INFO

OSCH WAS KNOWN if BE IN CARACAS wn?
OSCH NIGHT HAVE LEFT CARACAS SOME
R CENTRAL AMERICA,

: MUFABRIC#L4: WONE VER STATED THAT 80SGH TRAVEL Ine WiDgA AE
: ASSPORT

€2 Impcer

pate oe

sacaer vin fea

fa veld _
@ ie gioveen Ae Bored,
bane ws CR,
theme |



“ OUTGOING MESSAGE

Z ed

a er)

P rearssee

\ oa <a :
H nho , efzsifid! 8 BS . :
i [i , clot z, sleet:

| To: Inviedtate FOI//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, SECRET SEI
| awrenuteence DIVISION.¥

|

scatman

ON 38 FEORUARY 15%. HE WAS’ CHARGED UITH ENTERING. cost. RICA WITH

{IN
“HUPABRIC &
ener, L

ty ficarea
CALASTRK

TTRATERAT TPR:
3a!

r



PAGE cry
TORTLG21432 FEB 76

. we \ '
S.€ c R.€ -7:1621382 Fee yo starr

CITE.

vor IMMEDIATE Dineeran,

NuAcT Director,
nvear wuerry

“REFS

. VEU.

INFO THMEDIATE.

ac 96230503)

a (32872

: @g28704
| o830506
30444



- sure PRANK:

DIATE DIRECTOR INFO
DIRECTOR BoBe22

: aa 2ga736))

ATLENDE. PER! ‘REF -By BELIEVES WE COULD ADVISE,
THAT WE HAVE rie THERE MAY BE ATTEMPT ONSLIFE OF
ere eee *

MEMBER ALLENDE FAMILY HERE IN CARACAS.*. FEEL “THIS as S$PectFic
aS WE Cound. cet AND STILL SONABLY PROTECT “source
THERE is Risk 70 WRSCARLET #3 WHO OBTAINED INFO pirscr, Y FROM

SELF DECLARED PRINCIPAL IN pLoTs WKSCARLET=S 18 ONLY. GERSON we
ASTRE HAS TOUDe POSSTGLY ROLANDO’ OTERO. L| RRANDER
WARE VICTIN SOENTITYs w WRSCARLET® OMsseD

aataenists(__ as Lire WOULD IN. JEOPARDY:

asesae00n8y | ea, tHPDeT.

CROLS FILM COPY FOR

Ode ee


Po

yy Pl ul.2,.
ts

Fepeonviy ANY pogse ne

pane REPEAT“ANDRGS Pa s'G a LH

Avene, ih costa Rica, AFTER SPENDING Day 1H wots nore HE

oF MARK LET OANIEL CaN acuwo voNae,

Poutticas
Scenes Prop SUR IN POLE T ICAL:

eae FACULTY oF. NIVERS ty or.
OKG Locaten In: SyBURBAN TOWN:OF CURR uapat
a OF FORMER PRESIDENT PEPE rrouenes

te 66 at, ABOVE LOCATION as oF te FEBRUARY, ‘4

ae Pabcay.

“GaMAcKe
Pas noTaes nunty oF ne

‘ oPPeRTUNITY Y
hay o a datnaiit”ReauaRt

'etcnar



meer,
wAS MUCODeS,

DIScUSS "aUEGER THREAT WITH
/ 204-931619. €2 IMPDET

A. raedliem: - -Hve. ts ee

Cr pun). Hes angrier



U.S. SECRET SENVICE CABLE
DATE: 18 FEBRUARY. 1976

CARACAS, VENEZUELA
ATUO

SSuRaL CARACAS, SECRET SERVICE YD ADVANCE CARACAS 779

14 SURIBST; DEYARTURE OF SECRETARY KISSINGER -FRON



curcor

sane rary

alate

“BeMcdg

Cons 97 oro ma fa, osc ,

tea

ly,

verernsic: vr It 1s Possraie OR PROPER To use, “agency INFORMATION To ‘
brvcrr, oR: ARREST THE ACTIVITY.

IN SOME SITUA TIONS! NOTHING CAN BE
OnE citer GECAUSE. NO CHANNEL, Extsts, TO Areer Tt THE: _SrTuarzon OR THE
source, CANNOT BE PROTECTED.¥

( ND SAFETY .¥
3 LATEST. H@S INFO IS THAT curs aienoe RESTDES IN

Aeanenarne oromses
AEPROQUCTION BY OTHER THAN THe Isduine aprica


PLEASE. CONFIRM.
203-030098S: C2 INPDET.d

SAM JOSE.

BATE:
nia:

7
Cle : o>.)
ex ve. : ALAANU
seen. © semaunm rca LAAN se
tatsonstan M nipnonue~ 1 OY. OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE vw a 8 inpoer

Gh BY!

aaanga



HCH Oo NOT aFrEct DISsEH). oD eouectavey.

NILATERALLY, INDEX BOSCH, FILE ORFEMAED.| CL, ev Bs9ez0,
wana





VWLOFTY
REPS)

sin 7

ING RELAVED aLL a

CATED ORLANOG BOscHW AVILA’,

LEAVING car cis WITH WKSCARLET#: FOR avEnos AIRES arte NON 47.
_ FEB and ANTEC L Paves STAYING BUENOS AIRES FOR augur THREE. DAYS


wromas comas

OSE CKET
3 oa Fab

foads

WETTING unSCARLETsS CONTACT. WITH BKMERALD, IN oRDER veniry BoScr

“| @eact MOVERENTS DURING VWLOFTY, SUGGEST

KISSIRGER Ey CARACAS. WKSCARLET=3 DID SEE PRANK’!
a Se el
[venseuee walauerta AIRPORT ON 16 FEB. CASTRO Tgup WKSCARLETSS

THE crtLean SOVERNNEN?. castRo SAID ROLANDO OTERO: MERNANDES
oe
al IN

MEL NG. WIM AND D INGTEATED He EXPECTED areRo 0

castor oR cat Tavup: (Favs ANOTHER ANT IeF 1064 Cal
 SUNIINEEpEranr=rnnrorcey-er-P*y ventral



; Lecitt “was rirannaTion FROM RICARDO MO

ALLEGEDLY FROM TELTAP): THAT @OSCH WAS Iwee a : 5:08 7 FEBRUARY
a7 SSPORT.. SINCE
WNSCARLET+3 HAD INSTRUCTIONS TO ask FoR seontea® WHEN He TELEPHONED
Bosch. IN SAN JOSE ON 16 fEg. SUGGEST Bosch may haa ENTERED

RICA SOMETIME AFTER 6 FECRUARY USING mILeaN PASSPORT

oF cORTEE,

ILEs 2860604951



Intelligence Information Cable

cen TE, RIN: ¥ . ‘

pene paren 5 ER swe MAA been macs 300.100 cas PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES
umes Soir

Somer 0a eer

FunTwen DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION. $
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND ENO: |OF REPORT.

COUNTRYS, VENEZUELA/COSTA RICA
: E de’ FEBRUARY 1976
SUBJECT! OWHEREABOUTS OF ANTI=CUBAN GOVERNiER
vvcnnodfaostn-Avtua ay

COMMUNITY, HE -TS A USUALLY RELIASLE Sounce:

COMMENTS " BOSCH'S Gxace Loca ton LD
WHILE poscn's PLANS ARE UNKNOWNG aa

SAN U068
Aas TADISATED

8 Nor WROWN,)

DISSGNt GMOABSY, DEFATT, Sacr



Further DisseaunaTions ang
CONTROLS STATED at ct rows SumECT to

Cuassir igo BY ‘RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER,

EXEMPT FROM 3ENERAL
DECLASSIFicaTiON SCHEDULE OF; €,0, 11652 EXEMTPLON. caréaony SB (2),
twpossteLe yo DETERMINE. DATE: OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICAT fl

‘dovance copy’ TRANSHETTED TO ‘STATE DIA arty NAW AIR UCS Sus NSA ssp Far
‘TREAS CEA/OPSCEN



DATE: 17, FEBRUARY 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: SITUATION REPORT NO. 5 FOR THE VISIT
OF SECRETARY KISSINGER-TO CARACAS.,

YROM; SECRET SERVICE TD ADVANCE:CARACAS 7
DATE: 17 FEBRUARY 1976 ;

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET . '

SUBSECT; | STTUATION RETORE WO, 4 FOR THE: VISIT
OF SECRETARY KISSINGER TO CARACAS
VENEZUELA ON FER, 16-18, 1976



ntact ‘DIRECTOR,

VHLOFE TY MHSPIKE

ADDRESSEES WILL APPRECIATE USSS CO
AMINE CURRENTWHEREABOUTS ORLANDO it
THust.usss EFFORT Now Is DETERMINE sua-source Ft
ORAL E 3 NAVARRET.TE REPORT THAT BOSCHI IN ARAGAS. ASSESTANT

« WRSCARLET=9 ager ‘ie HOUR STAKE*OUT CARACAS
wong: F DOCTOR TEBELID RO DATS 4 ga capa “im wHow!

4h

miner eeon nein Suni

Goin 0294 ree



Siern 5 a mo
Fea 2 3 o3PR76 ~ vont —_—

T 686396 BLAL4S : PAGE 22

a
Ds OSCH. “7 CARACAS. ue. ASN TEATED: EnER GENCY CoNTacT To {
ian eee aed

t

| E :

E ‘ i .__VOR1520162 FEB

| Teron sad PRESENCE HERES A COURSE OF actron HE wguco FOLLOW
eO-OF eosen presences

ner ‘posta ADDRESS AND UNILATERAL STAKE*OUT oF a apnaees TO
rossiscy VERIFY BOSCH Locarian, BOSCH IS rive FEE



aD PRO
conract |
WHERE ABOUTS?



U8, BECRET BREVICE “CABLES.

SYROM:. RECHIET RERVICR TD ADVANCE CARACAB 775°
DATE, 15 FESRUARY 10/6.

CLASSIFICATION: = SNCKET

» SUBJECT: BLTUATION HETORT NO, 3 FOR TITS visit oe |
a BRC, RISSENUER TO CARACAS

“PROM: SECRET SRRVICK ID ADVANCE CARACAS
{DATE, 24 FEDKUARY. 2076

CLASSIFICATION: CONF TDENTIAL

GUBJECTY: OTVUATION. REPORT NO, 2 FOR THE vrert oF,
on GEG, KISSINGER TO CARACAS:



1
y, SUBJECT: VISIT OF DR. HENRY A. KISSINGER TO LATIN Sy
7 - AMERICA, FEBRUARY 16-23, 1976 2

BY CAPLE

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

i DATE: . 24 FERRUARY 1976

CLASSIFICATION: ‘CONFIDENTIAL



U8, SECRET SERVICE CARTES

i a
FROM: SECRET SERVICE ID ADVANCE CARACAS 772°:

DATE: 23 PERRUARY 1976
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

;SURJECT: ALLEGED PLAN TO ASSASSINATE SECRETARY.

KISSINGER IN VENEZUELA
fi

FROM: SECRET SERVICE ID ADVANCE CARACAS .

“DATE: 13 FERRUARY 1976
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL .

ALLEGE!
SUBJECT: ReeTRER TAN a ASSASSINATE

FROM! SECRET: SERVICE mS TYTELLY:

(FIB) FILE: 650.0
DATE: 13 FEBRUARY 1976
CLASSIFICATION:’ CONFIDENTIAL

KISSINGER IN VENFZURLA

TERCE DIVISION

SECRETARY

SUBJECT: ALLEGED PLAN TO ASSASSINATR. SECRETARY fe



aGE 83
168133930682 FEB 76
en 2 ny
SECRET aaserer vee zs stare

enre:[ — Wad :

Tot Anngguate

‘PEDRO ANTS NTO: P

VuLOrTY mw
Arsh ky

ISSINGER'S LIFE WHILE HE ee WP Sstig _iNgonant
"VERY CLOSE" To. ane re ev oscu VILA) (SSS LATER

meee" UPSFLZ {2 i
Ricaapo’ HORALES NAVARRETE

TRAVELING WITH COMENICAN. passeont. 68
tone Oa 77 7a



T eo3ea2- G1 e007 L BOGE 62063 ie

te 626532

ToRiayreced FEB 76

MING CONFIRMATION BoscH wouue ty aviaste.

‘wo AEPLY VET RECELVED, ADDRESS TO WHICH VELEGR se sent’ 18s
RTA, 40Rtane DEL GADS
asthe any. CORREO CENTRAL
“Santiago CE CHILE



“pace Oi-6t
TERIGIZ2ISE FED VO

GT a322ee2 FEB 76 Starr
: oo

THHEDIATE INFO LHHEDLATE: DIRECTOR,

Cite
Tor

20006-4955 Mattie Bae TMPOET.:

Tues
“A



| Yor prionity: DrRectOR,

erre(_

e NFO

WRBOXER |
REFS ave 260, 4 DEC 73

a.

ai Fee

76 To Abvise's HE AND WSKCARLETeA PLAN TRAVEL SANTIAGo..
Posstaty.. at ch DURING WEEK 15°FEB8, PURPOSE IS investi
PTeD ‘LETTER! BOMBING cUgAN aWgassaDor CARACAS.
. ze BoHBING INCIDENT suaFaceD WHEN CUBAN AMBAS
Hennanvez uRBELO REPORTED to. WKSCARLET aBQUT TH noWTHs | AGO

“ALLEGED RECEIPT OFe0Ha,
CONTAINED

achat oLteR,

ARGEMANELA ENVELOPE SEARING RETUR arpRes

eNOS ATRES AND

a
ADOR NORBERTO

WRSCARLET=29 DeactIva DEVICE WHICH

WRSCARLET FoRrngr eee

ON OF ATTEH® |

Cease



° 2

ToRIs216252 FEO 76

cy SANTIAGO,

. i
3. IN A LET,  APPROXINTELY THREE HONTHS agg woscn Sines
SCARLET©S HE

GENT INA cus

TUALLY supportive ACTIONS Teo CAGCORDING WKSCARLET®3) t

|
GENTINE GROUP

]ERTO RICOe WIS GROUP WILL TAKE ACTION. WKSCARLET#S:



a

ase as-e3
Towsaiezo2 Fee 76

ee i,*

wPERT OPPNION™ iP nw GrWaTERLALS USSD: PLEASE aise ‘suiseina
Awerauctions,
Ye Phe

ei a .
873, E26 al

. montane PERSE. ~ secu buts

7 zone Seorom watt vO cue Bi

780



DATE: 6 NOVEMBER 1975

* CHASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
‘SUBJECT: ACCTON CURANA (AC)
Yer FILE NO: 1105-21947 (MEAN)

ERE
Lo

2
ee tk:



NSVRCECT: SE0TOR SCRAS
ERED BITE MO: LOs~32K4 CANT)

{DATE:: 9 JULY 1975 a ,
SCAPLE YFOM DIFSCTOR, FST -
CLASSIFICATION: AILO :

* SURSECT: ORGANIZATION OF AMEFICAM STATES (OAS)

CONFERENCE, JULY Jtelc, 29/5, IM: COSTA RICA

‘DATE: 9 JURE 1975
CLASSIFICATION: : CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: EDUARDO PAZ BETLIO
FRY FILE NO: | 105-21552 (MIAME)

DATE: 12 MAY 1975

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN :
SUBJECT: GUSTAVO BIENVENIDO MARIN Y DUARTE : 7 :
FBI PILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW ZORK) i 2

DATE:... 8 MAY 1975

2) QEASSTFICATION:. ;NONE GIVEN

i SUBJECT: DUNNEY PIO PEREZ ALAMO
FBI FILE NO: 105-4953 (MIAMI)

DATE; 18 MARCH 1975

CLASSIFICATION: | KONE GLVEN
SUBJECT: LEONARDO 5, ¥IOTA SESIN
FBI FILE NO: 105-22254 {MAIL}



ee a a) ET 82 TMPORT. CL _8Y.054979.



Orlando BOSCH Avila

References: A.

The document was: passe
the:

the: sub ject of References,
on 4 February Bike ad EMPYREX-1.

HOGA: 20887

ORCRET


& Fmwerensl :
Doctor Victor Wes iFeress
- feeretario de Sete
‘Tzteriocres, : 1
+ ++ Sante Doningo, Kepibites Dominieess

2 oo : 4, :
8 Zl Remdre que he jursdo meter a FiJel
Castres THR M¥S8 TONTA VENTZGTL
[G@UDAMG TEARORISTA EUULGane

“em adieién @ rucates Cale y OFiato ve
eumplimas eon informarie sobre euta! casa lo sie
ner i te +.e y i i :
.a) Que of ciudsdane eurenc senor r ba
yo atumbba, ingrord a Venezuela po

—

pY-que ee24é de Venemueia para Curenad.ol ata 21-11-74
b.eomn transeunte 03. adda7hs saliento pa
een:

ale 212-74.

a AY ;

Venesuels con Iaitarjetaide turtens

Que “Gstuaimoate debe ene
- ‘

hoe


Q
.
‘4
’
. WEGA4686, cated 23 December 197g | | ' ae
Vg . y ee
Strain Ls : i
ing. to’. CIPENDER-2, Colombian Passport No, Sm03 £4 t
Ausued on? July 1970 to one Efrain LEITON Yate t i
: '
+ _Departnene on 7 August 1924. 4 :
“plack hair; brown: eyes, medium complexion, The photograph on
his passport application does not appear to he 4
that of the; “Subject of referenced dispatch,
Distribution:
3-Chief, LA Division
i HUBA-14009
TRAN
i BEC R ET.



TTEt 5 FEBRUARY 1975"

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SURSECT: ACCION CURANA (AC)

i FRI'FILE NOt SJ 2105-16193 (SAM JUAT)
DATE:. 30 DECEMBER 197K
“CLASSIFICATION: COKPIDENTIAL

2 QUBJECT: . ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA = PAROLE vrotaron

| FBI:FILE NOs 105-2056 mle

