# 104-10098-10012

## Page 1

104-10098-10012

SECRET

70

SECHE T 2619102

IN 69677

RYDAT MOLINE MATOPAL LEMANNES I UNION

REF A NAME 11786

8 DIN 789257

I. RELATIVELY EASY AND CHEAP AUDIO INSTALLATION IN APT 3 OF

APPEARS FEASIBLE. LIKAYAK 2 REPORTS

"Jor REF a

ARE LIVING IN THIS APT. SUBJ RZF B REPORTS OTHER

CONGREGATE

IN THIS APT, THAT IT APPEARS TO BE USED AS OFFICE AS WELL AS

DOMICILE, AND THAT VISITORS ALWAYS GO TO THIS APT.

2. TECHNICAL SURVEYS INDICATE ACCESS TO AIR SPACE UNDER

TARGET AFT IS POSSIBLE AND THAT MIKES COULD BE PLACED BELOW AIR

VENIS IN FLOOR OF TARGET APT, BELIEVE AUDIO RECEPTION SHOULD

BE. G0000

3o PROBLEM IS LP, GIVEN

CHILEREN AND LINE-IN

mess

MALO, DO NOT PLAN USE HIS APT AS LP AS LONG AS HE AND FAMILY IN IT.

WILL ASK HIM MOVE OUT EFFECTIVE. 1 DEC AND HAVE VICTOR W. OBOLD

(PES UNDER ALIAS AND WIFE MOVE IN. WILL OFFER PAY

339 DOLLARS

A MONTH FOR UP TO TWO MONINS FOR INCONVENIENCI. BRENT ON

PRESENT APT IS 209 DOLLARS MONTHLY ON MONTH BY MONTH LEASE.

4O LIRAYAN I RECRIS TINÄ EUNG MINISTER OF OF GODERHAGICN 47 8 8

TOLD HIM DIM DU 35 NOV THA

HILL NOT DE ALLOWED TO RETAIN

SECRET

may no.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

1 EET PACE 2

MEXICO AFTER 1 JAN 600

3, IF AUDIO INSTALLATION CAN BE MADE SOCH STARGET DATE IS I

JESS DELIEVE ONE MONTH'S TAXE NORIN REFORI, PAS CULARLY CONSIDERING

LO: COST AND APPARENT EASE CE INSTALLATICA, O'..I POSSIDILITILA YOR

-10

AUDIO iNSTALLAIIONS IN

TUO NOT APPEAR FRASIDLE.

R.. HIS HAW

LIVE MONITORING.

C/S COMENT. "GRANTED POA'S.

---

