104-10510-10127| : °
a : :

77.46

318.60"

19 hoapteal deyo

sieted April 14,°1962, Pattant-atated old iracture left clotas i
fene war exhulatery, heart and lunaa eacttys, Olscharged ‘
April 15, 1962.

i
‘

1962, chick complatst alight eeUtry acd i A
fent has htutery of irsctured lvecr part right .
YEAL 4300 Was Crested ot that tine by casting

the Leg for six sunths. Xeays and Leb work done uz treated Gain
medfeally. Ostaozsrosia of tha dietal oat third of the Cibla wad

fost. Tettont dhechargid May 3, 1962 and Tecerned to clinte for = a
nedh etc. — Packent dischucgcd. from clintes acres :

Re-dnfeted Ape tl 16,
Fela right arkia,
Liz (by shot gun) or

12 hospital days * Bot

1. Adaktced April 14, 1962 for oxeatnation und obaervetions 4
Pischarged April 15, 1962. Excmtaceton revealed Neurra !:
cad ceverance of ripht ulna nerve aa result, of gun shot.

"+ wound. :

Patient went to Detroit. | ater sieaeeeet star

Tottent returned’ to Kink ‘end was reatmieeed July 12,1962 §
for malfunction of sem und hend aad taken to Rurgery for BE eeessaery

exploration right ‘radfal nervo and mutura under general aneas”. * i iM
thetic." Discharged July 24, 1962 acd being followed by the :
whia office, .* anette scorer : i.
me \ 7 hospieal days: a 239.90 .-48.00

Adaifteed April 14,°1962 . Uptiepsy. Pattent has ‘history of | june
encephal {tise Lad work done, xraya takantend treated medically. erect i‘

+ | Dlacharged Aprit 21, 1962 and-veturned to tho elinte foc

“medications, Doctor following case in his offica.,

3 hospital days 112.10 57,95

weral elinte visite for Lab work, medicines and x-rayed.

: + Adaltted May 6, 1962 with difected tonsilr, 2erformed T&A

ae fe aud discharged Msy 9, 1562 and returacd- to clinte for forther
peace. seceee nedicatton,. Pattent discharged Loom -clinte, i

62 hospital days

- eee puesta 7
“Adadteed April 14, 1962 ‘for exoalnution gad observation.

Discharged April 15, 1962. Rea
for further excmination and ob:
‘t Apr 22, 1962, :

. R2adaitced May 3, 1962. chief c:
nie leg. About I veek prior droin
i iba done and patient was die:

pacicat,-

IT FROM ME

pa 7

DeSseceeset eee eeeuees

dmttced April 17, 1982 for
wexvatioas and discharged

‘oaplaint supuration of left lover patcearY
aga began spontancously. Szquesteim rigne
chergcd June 28, 1962. Me recurned

vot ce elinte for medication and treatnene and {s sttll a clinic : :

RCY HOSPITAL FOR PERIOD 14 April thru 15 Aug. 1962
: ®)

