104-10413-10063}

AB MEMO NO. 194
29 MARCH 1977

MEMORANDUM, FOR: Deputy Chief, Latin America Division

ATTN : Chris Hopkins

FROM : Graphics and Authentication Division/Senior Operations Officer
SUBJECT : Photo Comparison

REFERENCE : .DDO/LA Division Memo, dated 25 March 1977

1. On 23 March,Chris Hopkins of Latin America Division handcarried
photographs to OTS/GAD for identification comparison. These photos were

i examined by the undersigned and two identification experts of the Disguise
a and Identification Section.

7: 2. The results of the comparison is as follows:

# A, Facial Shape - Close similarities, although there are slight

differences which are probably due to subject's age differences.

B. Chin -.Fair-similarities-the loss of muscletone due to ageing
is most. apparent here.

C. Hair Line - Again good similarity with the natural ravages of
time factored in.

D. Set and Proportion of Eyes and Eyebrows ~- Close similarities.
(Comparison of eve detail is not possible due to poor photo quality)

E.-Nose and Caliper Lines - Close similarities in the nose but
the younger man has no sign of the distinctive caliper lines which extend
! from the nose to either side of the mouth on the known Soviet. This could
be explained by loss of muscletone and/or differences in lighting. »

F. Mouth - The shape, proportion and expression of the mouth and
the whole area from the tip of the nose. to the tip of the chin is perhaps
the most distinctive characteristic of both subjects. Here the similarities
are very close.

ARC TA NO LN RE 8

SECRET



i

pl

SUBJECT: Photo Comaprison
PAGE -2-

G, The proportions of the head, check bones and the body style of
the younger man tend to indicate he is of slavic origin.

3. The results of this type comparison are rarely absolute and are
usually limited by poor. photo quality or differences in viewing angle.
With that understood it is our opinion the two subjects of the forementioned
photo comparison could very likely be the same person. If additiona
photographs of ‘the subjects, particularly if they are of better quality,
are obtained, we would be happy to examine those as well.

Senior Operations Officer,
OT8/eraphies and Authentication Division

