104-10175-10107

15 October 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, C1/Oa i ; é
SUBJECT ¢ Viola June CosB, C-83492

Roference: Request for Information and Review,
9 October 1962

As requested in the reference, attached

15S Slpy Sl She eee sued svpataen OF
Viola June COBS, (Please return this file to
WH/3/kexico for Subject's 201).

2. Staff D collateral information, rcuted
through CI/OA on 9 October 1962, provided no
derogatory infurmation that is not included in é
Hiss COBB'S 201 file: expulsion from Guatemala
in November 1961 after proof was obtained by the
Government of Custenala “that sie vas a Castro
&gent Wivse mission in Guateualg was to distribute
pro-Castro and Couaunist proraganda among university
etudents"; translator of a boos written by former
Guatemalan Presicent Juan Jose AREVALO, "The
Fable of the Shark and the Sardines," which assails E
governasit aid business in the United States. :

3. Below is s summary of information froa
Bubject's 201 pertinent to the reference, with
attachzents which are to be returned to WH/3/Mexico
for inclusion in Subject's 201. Since Mexico City Hi i
Station has consistently provided information 2 :
concerning Subject and her relation to Station :
operations and agents, no further ficld traces i t H
will bo requested unless requested by your office. - : H

a. Viola June COBB, born in Ponca

eset,


Page 2

City, Oklahona, on 24 August 1927, left
home for Mexico City in 1947-48 after
her father rezarried. “She hag since lived
in Beuador, Cuta, and Mexico, and has
been involved with the men and politics
of a nuaber of Latin Countries. | During
these years shc has ceveloped a host of
friends nod acquaintacces, both U.S. and
Latin, that includes political leaders,
Journalists, ciplozats, and nea and wonen
from a number of professions, some of
uc Gy me cayes peowrens

Ber taste in friends is oanivorces aad

she enbraces (scretines literally) and

has access to extrerists froa both right
ana left political groups acd has variously
been accepted and distrustea by both pro~ -
and anti-U.5. interest groups. (See List
of Associates, para. 3,d,1, below). First
contacted by a KJBARK Staff Zuployee in
Habana in 1969 then she was exployed by
the govermeeit of Fidel Castro, she reported
on Coban personnel and activities until
she left Cuba and for some tiae afterward.
She was picked up by Mexico Stetion in
Deceaber 1961 when she had lost her access
to Cuban targets aad bas bees reporting

on the activities and thinking of various
Latin pro-Communjst revolutiozaries
including(LINLucg9l a Communist Party -
penetration who is ber current lover.

b. She has intentionally or
unintentionally indicated her enploysent
with the U.S. Government to a nuzber of
intimates and acquaintances. Persons
suspecting ber acsociation with U.S.
intelligence include the following:
Horacio GODOY, Argentine law professor;

sy



2ipy

Page 3.

Bayless MANNING, Yale University: law
professor;

Hichael Sidney COLIN, U.8. citizen who

was associated with hiliian Morgan

in Habana;

Rosalbo ROCA, close friend in New York

who is a citizen of the Dosinicar Republic;
and Diane ALEXANDRIA, also a friend in

Kew York City on resicent visa.

c. Yu Mereh 1962 she was called before
the Senate Subcommittee on interuas
Security and questicned on C2ban associations
and activities. To our knowlecce, she
did not divulge any contact with ECEAKK.
As a result of this hearing, sce was
contacted by Drew Peargon’s assistant,
Jack Ancerson, and the interview resulted
im an article in Parace, the Fashington

Post, 12 August 15072.

d. Attached to this nenorandua are
the following documents from Subject's

261 (to be returned to ¥H/3/texico):

List of Associates of Viola June

Coag. (1960)

2. Wenorandum to WH/3/Mexico, from
WH/4/CI (on Scbject)

3. Memorandum for the Record (2 April
1962). Contact report with Subject
concerning Senate Subcommittee
hearing.

4. Article on Subject from Parade:
"Meet June Cobb.”

=

Attachments: As stated above i

i.

Distrifpttoniqdressee, w/atts

vw- w/o atts
WH/3/Mexic ;a¢/x5940 (15 Oct 62)

Steen te

a= sel

= Aen tat,

ne ie ae
