# 104-10102-10057

## Page 1

104-10102-10057

IF

¡SECRET.

20 Fes 77

Scarce:

Totes Fade ow d. Goodpestice

For John Leader,

IG Stasf

Subject:

Background on Mexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1. 4

coverage. Trom the time the kexico Station ves

opened in

Apriu 1947) (oy Bill Doyle) until arrival of vin Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ, had developed a support apparatus to

excloit leads from the Soviet Encassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted

of multi line

phone taps, three poto sites, a mobile surveillance

team and

a nail intercept operation.

a. Thone taps vere placed by enbloyee of the telechore compaey,

no as hardled by David NILSTED (pseudo) .

The nuncer of lines

tapped was limted

by availability of a listening post nearby

(since tke taps were not made in the nain central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Folish, Gzech, ete) transcribers. Generally

these agents (mostly Moxican or Mexican American) vere related

(which the station at that tine felt was sood security la that

if they called about sace, they would tale to eace other.

i. Ehree hoto sites vere handled y inderson with the relo

of Farry anoney (retired, living in Chicago) and ODY ISD

people checking the best type of camera, film, and concealment

devices.

These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LININED, LUBIO,

and BICALLA). LITED was a fired site bang oprosite across

the street from the front gate sf tre Soviet Imbassy wrich had

both a vesicle and foot entrance. The Soviet fate was or the

orthest corner si their corpound sud 102255 as diagocally

scrose & double barcelled abreeb on the Southanst

SECRET

#12358

---

## Page 2

SECRE?

sode 11nD was the 11oa0 base aid it operatod abrictit en an

I bains to derd Station Jought

che storey

tads crocerty (a/Spanish Colonial stone nouse, bhrough LIOUSIE (checia to

se sure,. Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word that the photo of "uniden man"

was being released to the

suclic by the Warren Commission. The photo operators were moved

to another apt

nearby.

The property vas sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSIVE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned as an alternate photo base to LEITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the same side of the street

as IT ED out in the middle of the block South. It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Erbassy, The arents in LNITED and LILYRIC (ooth

exican families, as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LIURIC was a rented apartment. LICALIA, the third photo site, as located

in one of a row of four houses on the South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

vrich the 'exico Station purchased in about 1958 (check date), also using

3=OJSm2 as the urchaser (check). This site overlooked the back farden of

the fariet ambassy compourd.

The turnose of this operacion vas to get good

idemicication notographs of the Soviet personnel liho at that time were largely

midentifica in lexico Station records). The three proto sites tere handled by

{@6i0n 2 70300)

Ce entican School). Ramon coliected die MIn a

Am from LI ITED

aid LiTRIc caree vines a lieel. Fis sister's auscard, Carlos. (lexican dócto?)]

develo ed and priated the film into 8x10 contact print strips. The master rian

or ionis =in to e rocessed inside TSD man from 1957 to 1959 (Farer

* resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed 2ilm legan

so accumulate, the inside CO (atoney) jecare disgusted and took the 21lm out

Mariat cess (arial any i959). Musicae

elsales los all three photo lases.

i sensitire stand a conitoring operation

ISERTET

---

## Page 3

-3 .

LE.JOS, 1, atejo This was haudied oy Clea NeDo2u (oubside TSD cifieor and

Valorey using HO TDY beaus 1or monitorine, Tuis oporation vas a130 segarate

ECOm LICATTA. The tuo couses in setueen vere rented to unsusrectirà tenasts.

co Mobile surveillance vas developed by Arderson and later claced

under aloney and joseph Sancho. This beam consisted of a haif

dozen or so agents wico used three to four late model cars aná a

panel truck (which could be used on staie outs for photo covera e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio (from LI IDED 34S2)

Soviet

vicen someose of interest left the/Embassy gate ard stay with them

until they nade their meetings. These agents new about the LECRED

JASE cecause they had LI InD shotos

for identification purroses.

This worked fairly well until about

the middle of 1958 (sneck date)

when one of the surveillance agents got too close to his target ard

was arrested by the dexican transit police and turned over to the

Me:ican Secret Service. Ey the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to ball him sut (Judd Austin of the Goodrick,

Little ard Riquelne rm) tre agent had identifieà Sarcho lilio as

evacuated across the border at Vogales by Boo Shaw) and the inside.....

hone nuncer of lahoney (ho mas suocequently ceclaced or Louis

Fucketto do a sestit of this flag, the La2247 project was broken

un into several others. The arants vere not changed but vere giren

new crypts. /Istancona a affetsy aggere rerlaced Andersón in tendling

sio(un atere chon taps. Fuciets sepleced ahoney and handled tire

surveillance team (DESiTAP) and ute photo bases tiro gh Remon. )

do LIBIGET ves Le erat iseà cor afantlateral (origina 7) ail

Intercept candled oy Charlie inderson INI, he agent (exican) rad

e sent otticial

statis sno arranged to octain selected letters fron

Y22a

---

## Page 4

-4-C00

La suo-erent ta the postal sentem (I think so Be elmortly

iconso Spere,

Tis

2922

2. (Liaison coverace vas innellabls and inrecure as sanaeteriaed by the nature

of the Mexican services at that time. [the "exican DIS (Direction of Federal

CÓf Government. This inistry stent a rajor part of its time on control of

..= :

foreigners and political investigations.

Their agents were vicious,

venal,

corrupt extortionists. Robert lelers establisted contact with

one

of them

Levine De leon (Later IERE roug) 1a about 1950

or 51.

He gave

then some

training (a group of acout five surreillance types) In travel control warking

the airport as Well as file searches of names

fron DES Fatrs where the files

vere poorly organized and siten inaccurate.

ow and then, however, some useful

information as developed cut it coula not se derended upon. ('elberg)vas

reclaced by Ebil Rottinger (res fped and renaired in Nericoy ahoney, Thomas

Fazlitt, ard Robert Feldmanny

During 1958, Vin Scott net socially sore of the

chronies of the

Sterican President elect, Adolfo Lorez fateos

During this period, the J.s.

Ambassador Rocert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then

State

J.. Duiles)

energetic in organizing groups to "fight co munism".

these seeds

grew into a proposal estel dietan (Je. son af forter less President), acting

For lone 'ateos, made to in Scout for a joint *elephone tap operation. This

project (LaWOY) went through about four distressing years

of

a shakedown.

(the ledean in control (LaLEGAT) es Inexo riencea,

old, and greedy.. His

antoulated so trai over the rincipal agent c Walan ali latereept the

first sase officer vas ilfonso Spora inside visa Fumes Smith (retired) outside

and john

(TSD taining oilicer for surveillance and suad as tre listening

rost were balaty tele loce

tasuscrictica seem

---

## Page 5

SECRE.

started cy let can

zionana, bue station taled Gones erery

demand nade ly the 5 ca] los

Wynd John had longuage dirticultien end

personal problems associated with being sutside the station co hot the kestcans

vere Virtually uncontrollable, operdlY money as

pleased, squirrelling awly.

equipment at enornous costs, aud neglecting their gart of the bargalala dre

oduction of transeriptg 3f plading taps which ve vented. Scera was replaced

by Jack Brady who found himself in the same pincer movement of having

Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady had turned down by

the son

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little to show for it,

the project was revarped.

and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced

oy a ISD officer, Charles Mick who was sut inside the listening cost to maintair

reassigned to other

pending a transfer.

the equipment./ Scott took over the project as

officer meeting with LIELEGANT.

Fe designated Ann Goodpasture to meet calling withhte

for routine supervision

of the listening post, picking up transcrints and tapes.

Goodpasture had no

ideal ing with

except when Scott was ill or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were nade by Scott. This was acout late 1961.:

3. My nerory is a little vague aoout the origins of the Cuban ambassy but I

thinks the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on lew

Years eve 1959. is I recall, it was a takeshift arrangerent of volunteers

through most of 1960 and di with. Tom Fazlitt producing voluniacus reports on

their activities and recruivi.g agents right ard left anong Cuban nationals in

Mexico City.

4. Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in lexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and he subsequent investigation by the

warren Connission.

To deternine no was there and what they were acing a

have

grosped

persons torethes chronologically wite areas of their assignment

cov ring from 1950 to 1969 so tart locater names

cop up, one can tell what

perica they were in lexico md their assinments

at the time.

SECRET,

---

## Page 6

8/56-6/69

COS

DGOS

Winston !. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/58

10/58 - 12/62

6/63 - 9/65

10/65 - 1969

Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

(retired)

Alan White

retired)

(Stanley watson retired

COVERT ACTION

stop to 19520

Hovard

Hunt retired)

527- 7/532 Wantard 4119)

(resigned)

12/56 - 9/61

'Stannard

Short (retired)

Chief

9/61

- 3/64

David Phillips C/(retired) -

8/62 = 9/64

2/64 - 6/65

Janes Flannery C/(retired) -

9/64 - 11/66

Herold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967(Stenley WatconC/ (retired)

68

-

71

Joseph Smithe

co)]

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62

Thomas Hazlitt Chiet

2/60 - 4/62 S Jack Stewart (retired Costa Rica)

4/63 - 4/65

"Bob

Shaw Chief

103 - 1/05 Kay Sueder (retied)

10/63 - 5/65

Lorna Hackay

8/63 - 6/65 David Phillips Chief (retirad) -

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piccolo

10/55 - 12/67 Pesgy Maggard

SOVIET TAPGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Lyon (retired!

9/59= 8/05 Cherbert Wanel Chiet

9/59 - 8/65 / Barbara Manell

5/64 = 7/66

lilliam Bright

4/05 - 11/67 Cynthia Fausmann

6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TRANSCRIBIRS

6/56 - 8/58

Norris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63

George Misko

6/63 - 70

Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) -

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps)

(retired ?)

Outside CO

---

## Page 7

SUELORT ASSETS

al phono taps

119297- 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

(49-7) " Outside co

(4/557- 4/60

Pegsy Maggard Assta

V56 - 1/62

David WILSTED (ps)

Frank Estancona Chief

retired in Mexico

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

9/64 - 12/67 Michael Farner

teral photo Cubans

6/59 - L/64 Robert Zambernardi

(resigned l

7/59 - 6/62

(Richard Spathar TSD(retired)

Lunnatert

choto Soviets

• 44.59

Harry T. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

5/57 - 8/64

A. Goodpasture

(alternate CO

and internal routing)

6/58 - 6/63

6/63

Louis D. Packett (retired)

- 10/64 Thomas

Keenan

65 -

66

Recent t.

Willian Bright

6/33

56 - 68

Outside Agent

Remon Mavarez (resigned in Mexico!

eason phone taps

1959 - 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

1959

= 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

1959

- 1960 Murner

Smith (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960

1960-

1961

John

(Training rept resigned)

John brady (retired)

1962 - 1968

#. Godcasture

1961 - 1971

[Cherler Alick (outside TSD Staff Agent - retired) -

Son- surveillance

5 1952 Robert Lethere (retired)

3/34

- 4/59

Farry Mahoney

(retired)

4/59 = 1901

Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldmanne

TSD Outside unit

14/53

- 12/63

5/59 -4/54

Glen Widden (retired)

Josepk.!. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed dum

---

## Page 8

SECRE

ê telepcone runners se The Sordet, Cuban, 2ad Satellite Elbasales.

Lemon ore emmel tar fueten

lected

etas 2 recall, the le trans connected 5 Cuban Lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Gzech,

3 Polick, ond 1 Zugoslan Ilne, Rue baselouse listening post had a lare

nonitor woo mede short sumaries of interesting conversations for a daily

resume which

was

received each day arourd & a.m. (passed by ickl

to Goodrasture

to get to Scott before 9 a.n.) Later (wher the reel was concletely recorded)

full transcripts were tyced

and passed to the

station in the cane way, however;

there was usually a time lag of a day or so. Those transcripts which cad

Russian or another lanquage besides Spanish or English vent out of tre listening

post the day after the transcript (of other conversations on the reel)was

t/ped. These reels were taken to another location where they were tronslated

and typed. In the case of the Russian translations, Doris Tarasoff usually ran

acout a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume or

Russian conversations among tre enbers of the Soviet Ebassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought lato the statien

ana carried to soris oy one on tre

reople from the Soviet Section of they ray

have been carried to him by layout I think I brougnt the reel in and

gave

Is to forbent anell to take to Boris. Enore aneline is estee

candled all of the processi g of Soviet transcrints. My job involved screening

the protographs as soon as

we learned that the man calling hirself Oswald was

probably an Averican. However, here again there was a backlag vecause the

photos were wicked up three tines a week but the ones ricked up vere isually

for dates a lew days retiously because lee doctor roce sec re 212a on a

atcht fine basis. Fotorrachs vere nade usually antil one roll cas used cut

Later ve got it craared to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators cleared the canera each day wether Share vas any Riincaxes a 2u22

roll of Mim etposed. Instructions vere to cover office hours, photogrant acch

---

## Page 9

dem doried and Panded, all Soreignees and Consign Leence plates, Runaa

error did seour out generally the agents were conscienticus.

The Cuban

excassy coverage had more sophinticated equipment la pulse ca era cut it

frequently develored rechanical difficulties.

Bob

and Scathe

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna ladlay sorcerea

the film inside the station.

I am certain that the Oswald call came to our attention from the

Soviet line. It was picked u and taken to Boris

for

a translation because

the caller was

trying

to speak Russian. Any delay was caused by waiting to

compare the photograchs with the tyred transcript. There vere so

copies of

Jarscripts

every made in languages other than Scanish or English because Win

Scott could

read only those

two

languages and be

erschaily

screened

the

transcripts

for operational leads he vanted

cursued.

---

## Page 10

SECRET

(4) Sor Ens gate

1- LIMITED

3. LICALLA

---

