# 104-10072-10071

## Page 1

104-10072-10071

16 MAY 1968

KEXORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention:

FI. S.J. Papich

Investigation in Japan of Report on Suspicious

Actions of Gerald Lee Richards,

Criginzily

Described as Resenbling Suspected Assassin Of

Dio kartin Luther $20g, or.

Reference is made to the report concerning the above

subject made by telephone to lt. S.J. Papich at- 0930 on 17 April

1968. Following is a full account of the investigation nace in

this case:

A. On. 16 AprII 1968 a United States Netlozal

Horitine Union official in YOsOhana reported that

one

Gerald Lee Richards, who bore a general physical

resemblance to the description given of the suspected

ussaSSin Of DI. Hartin luther King, JI. had arrived

in Japan about 15 April 1968 and requested a position

aboard any ship going anychere. Plebards becase

sgitated when asked for a contact address in Japan

and refused to divulge 215 Japanese residence:

The

National Haritine Union official described Richezas

as 5' 10" tall, 155 pounds, with brown bair, = receding

hairline on both sides, and a not very prozinent scar

two and one half inches long traversing the center

forehead, his most outstanding charcteristic belig a

disconcerting, idiotic Erin resembling a constant

Exinace.

according to Richaras' documents and state-

sents, he was born 8 April 1937, applied for seaman's

papers in San Pedro, California, 16 Jane 1964 zad

registered there as a United States National Haritine

Union nember on 21 February 1968 bat never shipped out.

Els Social Security Number is 552-46-5078; his United

States Coast Guard Number Z 2711-782.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Pe.

A subsequent check:

conflimed the biographic cata supplied

*the National Maritine Union Clicial.

Indicated that Richards originally resided in jagra

from 1963 to 1964 and married IZATAL LiCKiLO in 1963.

Both Richards and his wife left Japan for the United

richaris returned zlone t0 japan aious

15 April' 1968.

States in 196% is wife's address in be Unitea Strics

15 listed as 160 Hosoi (pionetic) Street, Carpenteria,

California, 93013.

raph of Richaras

was shows to the National varitine

Union official and identified by hin as the individual

in subparagraph lA above sho had applied for a seaman's

berth.

The photograph of Richards bears no apparent

resemblance to photographs of suspected assassin

James Earl Ray provided by the Federal Burcau of

Investigation.

The above intornation has been given' to the Legal

Attache

of the United States Embassy 1n Toñyo.

FOR TEE DEPUTY DIRECIOR FOB PIANS:

Bigned: James R. Eut

FILES ANGLETON

CSCI 316/01774-68

DDP/FE/ JKOJO/R

dsh

Distribution:

2 - Addressee

1 - CI/LSN

— CI/RStA

- CIOP/DO (201-832732) ÷2y

I - CFE

1 - FE/ JKOJ

•(8 Way 1968)

2

---

