# 104-10333-10011

## Page 1

104-10333-10011

AJENCY -INTERNAL USE-ONLY

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODSCT

OGC-94-52916

19 September 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR: David P. Holmes

Deputy General Counsel

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Robert J. Eatinger.Jr.

Assistant General Counsel

Litigation Division, OGC

DCI Sources and Methods Authority With Respect

to JFK Assassination Records

1. Per your request, I have attached a copy of the

President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (ARCA), Pub. L. 102-526, 106 Stat.

3443-3458, lepriried at

44 U.S.C. s 2107 note.

For your convenience, I have highigh-ed

the pertinent provisions that will aid in responding to an

inquiry regarding the statute's effect on the DCI's statutory

autrority to protect intelligence sources and methods.

2.

The clear language and intent of the law is to supe-sede

stasutes that prohibit disclosure of information, except for some y

irrelevant subject areas, such

as tax records.

The statute

provides that "it shall

take precedence over

any other law

(except section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code), judicial

decision construing such law, or common law doctrine that would

otherwise prohibit" the disclosure of information subject to the

Act.

ARCA § 11(a). This language, taken with the provisions

discussed below which limit the intelligence

sources and metrods

thai may be protected and set a strict procedural scheme by which

information is to be reviewed under the ARCA,

effectively

supersedes the DCI'S National Security Act authority with respect

to intelligence sources and methods information subject to the

ARCA.

3.

Section 6 of the ARCA provides the grounds for which the

release of information may be "postponed." The statute

contemplates that all information will eventually be released.

Indeed, it specifies that all information will be made available

to the public no later than 25 years after the passage of the

ARCA (which occurred in October 1992) unless the president

certifies that continued postponement is necessary.

ARCA

§ 4 (g) (2) (D) .

With respect to intelligence-related information,

ARCA_ allows postponement if:

" (1) the threat to ... intelligence operations

... is

of such gravity that it outweighs

the public interest, and

such public disclosure would reveal--

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT

AGENCY - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 2

14-00000 /

SUBJECT:

AGENCY - INTERNAL ÜSE ONLY

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PROE:CT

DCI Sources

and Methods Authority With Respect to JFK

Assassination

Records

(A)

requires

intelligence agent whose identity currently

protection;

(B)

an

intelligence source or rethod which is

currently utilized, or reasonably expected to be

utilized, by the United States Government and which has

not been officially disclosed, the disclosure of which

would interfere with the conduct of intelligence

activities; or

intelligence operations

(agence operationer curre dis resure a tonich

would demonstrably impair the natioral security of the

United States."

ARCA § 6(1) (Emphasis added.)

4.

The originating agency is to make the first review to

identify information that meets the standards for

postponement.

ARCA § 4 (c) (2) (D) (1) •

For CIA, this effort is being undertaken

by the Historical Review Group, in consultation with the

Directorate of Operations and other appropria: Agency

components.

Information the originaiing agercies identify for

postponement must be transmitted to the Review Board.

ARCA

§ 4 (c) (2) (E).

The Review Board "shall consider and render

decisions

on a determination by a Government office to seek to

postpone the disclosure of assassinaiion records."

ARCA §

7(1) (1) .

Specifically, the "Review Board sha'l consider and

render decisions on

... whether an assassination record or

particular information in a record qualifies for postponement of

disclosure under the Act." ARCA § 7 (i) (2) (B) .

5.

If

the Review Board determines to order the disclosure

of information that the originating agency feit met the criteria

for postponement, it "shall notify the head o the originating

body of its determination and publish a copy of the determination

in the Federal Register within 14 days after the determination is

made." ARCA § 9(c) (4) (A). If the information contained in an

assassination record is "obtained or developed solely within the

executive branch, the President shall have the sole and

nondelegable authority to require the disclosure or postponement

... the information under the standards set forth in

ARCA § 9(d) (1) (emphasis added). The President's

decision must be certified to the Review Board within 30 days of

Id. Records postponed by the

• President must be re-reviewed every 5 years. ARCA § 9 (d) (2).

2

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT

AGENCY - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 3

AGENCY- INTERNAL USE ONLY

FRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PROSUCT

SUBJECT: DCI Sources and Methods Authority With Respect to JFK

Assassination Records

6. I would be happy to discuss this further if you so

desire.

You might also want to contact John Pereira (x30373)

since he has met with some or all of the Review Board members.

Attachment

3

PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT

AGENCY - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 4

1d-0d0

SUBJECT:

DCI Sources and Methods Authority w/Respect

to

JFK Assassination Records

OGC-94-52916

DCI/OGC/RJEat inger: 76105 (19 Sept 94)-

Original - Addressee

*/attach) (hand delivered)

1

- OGC Registry (/attack)

1 - Lit File

1

- RBB (OGC/I1J)

1 - C/HRG (J. Pereira-404 Ames)

1

- RJE -

Soft sile

(w/attach)

1

- RJE - Signe=

1

-

PDP

1

KK - Ey:

1

- PAS-Ey:

-—

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CIA SPECIAL ETELECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

DRAFT

CHAPTER XIV - ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

Part 1400 - GUIDANCE FOR INTERPRETATION AND IMPLEMENTATION

OF THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS

COLLECTION ACT OF 1992" (ARCA)

Sec.

1400.1 Scope of assassination record.

1400.2 Scope of additional records and information.

1400.3 Sources of assassination records and additional records and

---

information.

17

---

## Page 6

1d-0d0d

--

DRAFT

I400.4 Types of materials included in scope of assassination record and

additional records and information.

1400.5 Requirement that assassination records be released in their entirety.

1400.6 Originals and copies.

1400.7 Additional guidance.

1400.8 Implementing the ARCA - Notice of Assassination Record Designation.

Authority: 44 U.S.C. 2107 note.

§ 1400.1

Scope of assassination record.

(a)

An assassination record includes, but is not limited to, all records,

public and private, regardless of how labeled or identified, that document,

describe, report on, analyze, or interpret activities, persons, or events reasonably

related to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and investigations of or

inquiries into the assassination.

(b)

An assassination record further includes, without limitation:

(1)

All records as defined in Sec. 3(2) of the ARCA;

(2)

All records collected by or segregated by all federal, state, and local

government agencies in conjunction with any investigation or analysis of or

inquiry into the assassination of President Kennedy (for example, any intra-

agency investigation or analysis of or inquiry into the assassination; any inter-

agency communication regarding the assassination; any request by the House

Select Committee on Assassinations to collect documents and other materials; or

18

---

## Page 7

1d-0d0d

DRAFT

-

any inter- or intra-agency collection or segregation of documents and other

materials);

(3)

Other records or groups of records listed in the Notice of

Assassination Record Designation, as described in §1400.8 of this chapter.

§1400.2

Scope of additional records and information.

The term additional records and information includes:

(a)

All documents used by government offices and agencies during their

declassification review of assassination records as well as all other documents,

indices, and other material (including but not limited to those that disclose

cryptonyms, code names, or other identifiers that appear in assassination

records) that the Assassination Records Review Board has a reasonable basis to

believe may constitute an assassination record or would assist in the

identification, evaluation or interpretation of an assassination record. The

Assassination Records Review Board will identify in writing those records and

other materials it intends to seek under this section.

(b)

All training manuals, instructional materials, arid guidelines created or

used by the agencies in furtherance of their review of assassination records.

(c)

All records, lists, and documents describing the procedure by which the

agencies identified or selected assassination records for review.

(d)

(e)

Organizational charts of government agencies.

Records necessary and sufficient to describe the agency's:

19

---

## Page 8

(1)

Records policies and schedules;

DRAFT

(2)

Filing systems and organization;

(3)

Storage facilities and locations;

---.-.-.

(4)

Indexing symbols, marks, codes, instructions, guidelines, methods and

procedures;

(5)

Search methods and procedures used in the performance of the agencies'

duties under the ARCA; and

(6)

Reclassification to a higher level, transfer, destruction, or other

information (e.g. theft) regarding the status of assassination records.

(f)

Any other record that does not fall within the scope of assassination

record as described in §1400.1, but which has the potential to enhance, enrich,

and broaden the historical record of the assassination.

§1400.3

Sources of assassination records and additional records and

information.

Assassination records and additional records and information may be located at,

or under the control of, without limitation:

(a)

Agencies, offices, and entities of the executive, legislative, and judicial

branches of the federal government;

(b)

Agencies, offices, and entities of the executive, legislative, and judicial

branches of state and local governments;

- -

20

---

## Page 9

14-00000

DRAFT

(c)

Record repositories and archives of federal, state, and local governments,

including presidential libraries;

(d)

Record repositories and archives of universities, libraries, historical

societies, and other similar organizations;

(e)

Individuals who possess such records by virtue of service with a

government agency, office, or entity;

(1)

Persons, including individuals and corporations, who have obtained such

records from sources identified in subparagraphs (a) through (e) of this section;

(g)

Persons, including individuals or corporations, who have themselves

created or have obtained such records from sources other than those identified in

subparagraphs (a) through (e) of this section;

(h)

Federal, state, and local courts where such records are being held under

seal; or

(i)

Foreign governments.

$1400.4

Types of materials included in scope of assassination record and

additional records and information.

The term record in assassination record and additional records and information

includes, for purposes of interpreting and implementing the ARCA:

(a) papers, maps, and other documentary material;

(b) photographs;

(c) motion pictures;

21

---

## Page 10

td-0n0d

DRAFT

(d) sound and video recordings;

(e) machine readable information in any form; and

(f) artifacts.

§1400.5

Requirement that assassination records be released in their entirety.

An assassination record shall be disclosed in its entirety except for

portions specifically postponed pursuant to the grounds for postponement of

public disclosure of records established in Sec. 6 of the ARCA, and no portion of

any assassination record shall be, withheld from public disclosure solely on

grounds of non-relevance unless, in the Assassination Records Review Board's

sole discretion, release of part of a record is sufficient to comply with the intent

and purposes of the ARCA.

§1400.6

(a)

Originals and copies.

For purposes of determining whether originals or copies of assassination

records will be made part of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection (the JFK Assassination Records Collection) established under

the ARCA, the following shall apply:

(1)

In the case of papers, maps, and other documentary materials, the

Assassination Records Review Board may determine that record copies of

Government records, either the signed original, original production or a

reproduction that has been treated as the official record maintained to chronicle

22

---

## Page 11

14-00009

.. . ..

DRAFT

government functions or activities, may be placed in the JFK Assassination

Records Collection;

(2)

In the case of other papers, maps, and other documentary material, the

Assassination Records Review Board may determine that a true and accurate

copy in lieu of the original may be placed in the JFK Assassination Records

Collection;

(3)

In the case of photographs, the original negative, whenever

available (otherwise, the earliest generation print that is a true and accurate

copy) may be placed in the JFK Assassination Records Collection;

In the case of motion pictures, the camera original, whenever

available (otherwise, the earliest generation print that is a true and accurate

copy), may be placed in the JFK Assassination Records Collection;

(5)

In the case of sound and video recordings, the original recording,

whenever available (otherwise, the earliest generation copy that is a true and

accurate copy), may be placed in the JFK Assassination Records Collection;

(6)

In the case of machine-readable information, a true and accurate

copy of the original (duplicating all information contained in the original and in

a format that permits retrieval of the information) may be placed in the JFK

Assassination Records Collection; and

(7)

In the case of artifacts, the original objects themselves may be

placed in the JFK Assassination Records Collection.

-.-

23

---

## Page 12

4-00000

DRAFT

To the extent records from foreign governments are included in the JFK

Assassination Records Collection, copies of the original records shall be sufficient

for inclusion in the collection.

(c)

In cases where a copy, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section above, is

authorized by the Assassination Records Review Board to be included in the JFK

Assassination Records Collection, the Assassination Records Review Board may,

at its discretion if it determines it to be necessary to ensure the integrity of the

JFK Assassination Records Collection, require a certified copy. In cases where an

original, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, is required for inclusion in

the JFK Assassination Records Collection the Assassination Records Review

Board may, at its discretion, accept the best available copy. In such cases that

records included in the collection, whether originals or copies, contain illegible

portions, such records shall have attached thereto a certified transcription of the

illegible language to the extent practicable.

(d)

For purposes of implementing the ARCA, the term copy means a true and

accurate photocopy duplication by a means appropriate to the medium of the

original record that preserves and displays the integrity of the record and the

information contained in it.

(e)

Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to suggest that additional

copies of any assassination records contained in the JFK Assassination Records

Collection are not also assassination records that, at the Assassination Records

24

---

## Page 13

14-00009

-.....

DRAFT

«Review Board's discretion, may also be placed in the JFK Assassination Records

Collection.

(1)

Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent or preclude copies

of any assassination records, and particularly assassination records in

audiovisual or machine readable formats, from being made from time to time in

the professional judgment of and at the discretion of the National Archives and

Records Administration for purposes of preservation or reformatting to conform

to different hardware and / or software requirements.

§1400.7

(a)

Additional guidance.

A government agency, office, or entity includes, for purposes of

interpreting and implementing the ARCA, all current, past, and former

departments, agencies, offices, divisions, foreign offices, bureaus, and

deliberative bodies of any federal, state, or local government and includes all

inter- or intra-agency working groups, committees, and meetings that possess or

created records relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

(b)

The inclusion of artifacts in the scope of the term assassination

record is understood to apply solely for purposes of establishing the JFK

Assassination Records Collection and for fully implementing the terms of the

ARCA and has no direct or indirect bearing on the interpretation or

implementation of any other statute or regulation.

In the case of artifacts deemed to be assassination records and included in

25

-..

---

## Page 14

14-00009

DRAFT

the JFK Assassination Records Collection, the provision to the public of

photographs, drawings, or similar materials depicting the artifacts shall be

sufficient to comply with the ARCA's requirement that copies of assassination

records be provided to the public upon request. Additional display of or

examination by the public of artifacts in the JFK Assassination Records Collection

shall occur under the terms and conditions established by the National Archives

and Records Administration to ensure their preservation and protection for

posterity.

(d) The terms and, or, any, all, and the plural and singular forms of nouns

shall be understood in their broadest and most inclusive sense and shall not be

understood to be terms of limitation.

(e)

Unless the Assassination Records Review Board in its sole discretion

directs otherwise, records that are identified with respect to a particular person

shall include all records relating to that person that use or reflect their true name

or any other name, pseudonym, codeword, symbol, number, cryptonym or alias

used to identify that person.

- =

(1)

Unless the Assassination Records Review Board in its sole discretion

directs otherwise, records that are identified by the Assassination Records

Review Board with respect to a particular operation or program shall include all

records pertaining to that program by any other name, pseudonym, codeword;

symbol, number or cryptonym.

26

- -

---

## Page 15

14-00000

DRAFT

§1400.8

Implementing the ARCA - Notice of Assassination Record

Designation.

(a)

A Notice of Assassination Record Designation shall be the mechanism for

the Assassination Records Review Board to announce publicly its determination

that a record or group of records meets the definition of assassination records.

(b)

Notice of all designations will be published in the Federal Register within

30 days of the decision to designate such records as assassination records.

In determining that a record or group of records meets the definition of

assassination records, the Assassination Records Review Board must determine

that the record or group of records will more likely than not enhance, enrich, and

broaden the historical record of the assassination.

• ...

-.=

---

## Page 16

14-00000

Calendar No. 552

102D CoNGRESs

2d Session

SENATE

THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992

REPORT

OF THE

COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

UNITED STATES SENATE

TO ACCOMPANY

S. 3006

TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXPEDITIOUS DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS

RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.

KENNEDY

# 59-010

JULY 22 (legislative day, JuLy 20), 1992.- Ordered to be printed

US. COVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

WASHINGTON: 1992

S.Reot. 102-328 0 - 92 - 1

---

## Page 17

14-00000

21

ion, it is important to emphasize and clarify the legislative intent

and importance of particular provisions of the Act.

Defining assassination records

of public confidence in the release of assassination records. While

the records of past presidential commissions and congressional

committees established to investigate the assassination of President

Kennedy are included as assassination records under this Act, it is

intended and emphasized that the search and disclosure of records

under this Act must go beyond those records. While such records

are valuable, they reflect the views, theories, political constraints,

and prejudices of past inquiries. Proper implementation of this Act

and providing the American public with the opportunity to judge

he surrounding history of the assassination for themselves

quires including not only, but going beyond, the records of the

Warren and Rockefeller Commissions, and the Church and House

Select Assassination Committees.

The term

"assassination record" was not more specifically de-

ined by the Committee because to do so before more is known

about the universe of records would have been premature, and

would have further injected the government between the records

and the American public. There is a sufficient volume of known as-

sassination records to organize and review at the outset. However,

it is intended that the Review Board issue guidance to assist in ar-

sculating the scope or universe of assassination records as govern-

ment offices and the Review Board undertakes their responsibil

ities. Such guidance will be valuable notwithstanding the fact that

government offices will begin to organize and review their records.:

before the Review Board is established. Government offices are re-

quired to begin the review and disclosure of records upon enact-

ment to expedite public access to the many records which do not

require additional review or postponement. However, the ultimate

work of the Review Board will involve not only the review of

records recommended for postponement, but requiring government

offices to provide additional information and records, where appro

priate. Guidance, especially that developed in consultation with the

public, scholars, and affected government offices, will prove valua-

ble to ensure the fullest possible disclosure and create public confi-

dence in a working definition that was developed in an independ-

ent and open manner.

Autopsy Records

The Act specifically excludes from the definition

of "assassi-

nation records"

the autopsy records and copies or reproductions

made from such records donated by the Kennedy family pursuant

to a deed of gift executed on October 29, 1966. These records in-

clude the autopsy photographs and X-rays of President Kennedy.

The Committee believes that this exclusion is a sound policy. The

Committee believes that there is a compelling justification for pro-

tecting the privacy of the Kennedy family from the unwarranted

49622953 422 582.0722 86

---

## Page 18

!

19

operations, or foreign relations of the United States.

The Assassination Records Review Board is an independent

agency within the executive branch. The five-member Review

Board will be appointed by the President with the advice and con-

sent of the United States Senate. The confirmation hearings will be

conducted by the Committee on Governmental Affairs. The Act re

quires that the Review Board include at least one historian and

and that each member is a national recognized pro

mmendations from the American Historical Association, the Orga

nization of American Historians,

the Society of American Arch

vists, and the American Bar Association.

To ensure a comprehensive search and disclosure of assassination

records, particularly to enable the public to obtain information and

ecords beyond the scope of previous ofhicial inquiries, '

Board has the authority to direct any government office to produce

additional information and records which it believes are related to

the assassination. It has the authority to subpoena private persons

and to enforce the subpoenas through the courts.

ence to less than one year if that is the time determined as neces-

ary to complete its work. Annual financial reports and other per

dic reports are required to be provided to the Congress. The re

ports must include statements of progress, the level of cooperation

of government offices and agencies, and the possible need for addi-

tional time or authority from Congress.

IV. BACKGROUND AND NEED FOR LEGISLATION

On November 22, 1963,

President John F. Kennedy was assassi-

nated. It was a tragic and defining moment in American history

C'he desire by the American public to understand who assassinate

and inquiry served to raise additional questions, and did so while

increasing the volume of secret government records about the as.

sassination. In 1992, the public demand, fostered by

ognition by the Congress

Executive

fully disclosed.

In addition to the legislation considered by the Committee, and

its counterpart considered by the House Committee on Government

Operations,

four other related, though more limited, measures

were introduced in the House of Representatives in 1992. Two bills

mandating the release of all Kennedy assassination investigation

11

---

## Page 19

7506

Federal Register / Vol. 60, No. 26 / Wednesday, February 8, 1995 / Proposed Rules

(D) For dependents of active duty

members in pay grades of E-5 and

(B) For dependents of active duty

members in pay grades of E-s and

above, $25; and;

(C) For retirees and their depcadents"

525.

(vi) The copayment for prescription

drugs per prescription, for a maximum

30-day supply, Is as follows:

(A) For dopendents of active duty

mombors in pay grades E-1 through E

4, 55:

(B) For dependents of active duty

members in pay grados of E-s and

. above, $S; and.

(C) For retirees and their dependents,

$9.

(wii) The copayment for ambulanco

services is as follows:

(A) For dependents of active duty

• members in pay grades of E-1 through

E 1. $10;

(B) For dopendents of active duty

mombors in pay grados of E-S and

sbove, $25; and.

(C) For retirees and their dependents.

$20..

(e) Inpatient cost shoring

requirements under the Uniform HMO

Benefit-(1) In general. la liou of usual

CHAMPUS cost sharing roquiruments

(500 § 194.4(1)), spooal cost sharing

arDounts are required. The specile

(C) For retirees and their dopendents,

(1) Updates. The enrollment fees for

fiscal year 1995 set under paragraph (c)

of this section and the per services

specific dollar amounts for hscal you

1995 set under paragraphs (d) and (e) of

this section may be updated for

subsoquent yoars to the extent necessary.

to maintain compliance with statutory

roquirements pertaining to government

costs. This updating does not apply lo

cost saaring that is expressed as a

porcontago of allowable charges: these

percentages will remain unchanged.

(8) Applicability of the Uniform HMO

Benefit to Uniformed Services

Treatment Facilities Managed Care

Program. The provisions of this section

concerning the Uniform HMO Benefit

shall apply to the Uniformed Services

Troatment Facilities Managed Care

Program, effective October 1, 1995.

Under that program, non-CHAMPUS

eligiblo benefciaries have the sarne

payment responsibilities as CAMPUS.

eligble beneficiartes.

Daled February 2, 1995.

requirements shall be uniforn and shall

be published as a notice annually by-tbe

nisolant sochilty ul Defense (Ilcalu

Affairs)

(2) Structure of cass sharng. For

sorvicos olber than mental illness or

Alternate OSD Foderal Herister Larson

Offuer, Department of Gafense.

158 Doc 85-3028 Filed 2-9-59, 815 aral

BILLING COOE 6000-06-40

substance use treatment, there is a

nominal copayment for active duty

dependents and for retired members.

dependents of retired members. and

survivors. Fur enparent mental healtl

and substanco use treatment, a separate

per day chargo is established.

(3) Amount of inpatient cost sharing

requirements. Beginning in fiscal your

• 1905, tho inpatient cost sharing

roquirements are ar follows:

(l tor acute care admissions and

other non-mental bealth/substance use

treatment admissions, the per diem

charge is as follows, with a minimum

charge of $25 per admission:

(A) For dependents of acuve dul)

members in pay grades E-I through &

4. 18:

(B) For dependents of active duly

members in pay grades of E-5 and

_abovo. $11; and,

(C) For rotirees and their dependente

511.

(ti) For mental health/substanco use

treatment admissions, and for partial

hospitalization services, the per diem

charge Is as follows. with a minimum

charge of $25 per admission:

A For dependents of active duty

membery in pay grades E-1 through E

1. $20:

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW

BOARD

36 CFR Part 1400

Guldance on Interpreting and

Implementing the President John F.

Kennedy Assassinaton Records

Collection Act of 1992

ACENCY: Assassination Records Reviow

Board (ARRB).

ACTION: Iraposed interpretive

regulation.

SUMMARY: The ARRB proposes to issue

regulations providing guidance on the

interpretation of certain terms defined

in and the implementation of the

President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992.

DATES: To be considered, comments

must be received on or belore March 10.

1995.

ADDRESSES: Comments should be

mailed to the Assassination Records

Raview Board at bUU E Street, NW.

Socond Ilvor. Washington, D.C. 20530 ur

delivorod in person lu that address

between the hours of 9:30 aum. and 4:30

p.m., Monday through Friday (except

legal holidays} Comments ray also bu

faxed to the Board al (202) 724-0457.

Comments received may be inspected in

the Board'& public reading room, located

at the address shown above, between 10

a.m. and J p.ra. Monday through Friday

(except legal holidays). Parsons wishing

to inspect comments in the Board's

public realing room should call the

Board's office beforehand at (202) 727

008u for further information.

FOR FUATHER INFORMATION CONTACT:

Sheryl L. Walter (General Counsel).

(202) 724-0088.

• SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Background

The President John F. Konnedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992, 44 U.S.C. 2107 note (as amended)

(ARCA). establisbod the President Jobn

F. Kennedy Assassination Racords .

Collection (the JFK Colloction) at the

Nauonal Archives and Records

Administration (NARA). In establisbing ...

lbe procoss for public disclosure of all

records rolating to the assassination.

Congrass created an independent agency

withun the execuave branch, the

Assassinauon Records Review Bourd

(tho Board), which consists of ive

Cilizens appointed by the President.

Under the sialule, the Board is

empowered lo deudo "wether a record

constalutes an assassination record." &

U.5 C 2107 note, Sec. 9(1)(2)(A)

Congress further made clear its intent

that the Board "issue guidance lo assist

in articulaling the scope or universe of

assassination records." President John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992, S.Rep. 102-328.

102d Cong.. 2d Sess. (1992) at 21.

In constructing the proposed guidance

set out here, the board seeks 1o

• Implement congressional intent that the

JFK Collection Contain "be most

comprehensive disclosure of records

related to the assassination of Presidon!

Kennedy." id. at 18. The Board is also

mindful of Congress's instruction that

tho Board apply a "broad and

encompassing" working definition of

"assassination rocord" in order to

achieve the goal of assembling the

fullest historical record on this tragic

event In American history and on the

investigations that were undertaken in

the assassination's afermath. The Board

recognizes that many agencies have

already begun to organize and reviess

records responsive to the ARCA even

before the Board was appointed and

began its work. Nevertheless, the

Board's aim is that this guldance will

ald in the ultimate assombly and public

---

## Page 20

Federal Register / Vol. 60. No. 26 / Wednesday, February 8, 1995 / Proposed Rules

7507

disclocuro of the fullest possiblo

histoncal rocord on this tragedy and on

subsequent invosugations and inquires

The Board's pruposed guidance is

designod to bolp government agencies

and the Board identify and make

avellable to the public all documonts

that will onhance. enrich, and broaden

the historical rocurd of the assassination

of Prosidont Jobn F. Kennedy. The

Board socks through this guidance to

f:lfll Congross's "inton(i) and emphasis

that the search and disclosure of rocords

urdur this Act must go boyond" lbe

rocords of previous commissions and

committees established to Invesugate

Prosident Konnody's assassination. id. at

21. The Board also soeks to provide

sutice of the scope of its intended

exercise of authurity lo soek additonal

information or records in ordor to fulfill

is functions and responsibilitios under

tho ARCA.

In addition, the Board proposas to

create a mochanism to facilitate the

Board's ongoing work and to further

ensure future public access to the

broadest possible historical record. This

mechanism will be known as tbe

"Catalog of Assassination Records"

(COAR). The COAR is intended to be an

official listing of all records determined

by the Board to meet the definition of

"assassination record and included in

the JFK Colloction.

Request for Comments

The Board seeks public comment on

its proposed interpretive regulations

intended to provide guidance on tho

Intorpretation of the term assassination

record, the intended scope of its

exercise of authority to seck additional

Infornation or records, and its

additional proposals for implomontation

of tho ARCA.

List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 1400

Administrative practice and

procedure, Archives and rocords.

Accordingly. the Assassination

Records Review Board hereby proposes

to establish a new chapter XIV in title

36 ol tho Code of Foderal Regulations lo

ruad as follows:

CHAPTER XIV ASSASSINATION

RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

PART 1400 GUIDANCE FOR

INTERPRETATION AND

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION RECORDS

COLLECTION ACT OF 1992 (ARCA)

1400.1 Intergretation of assessination

140u.z Interpretation of additigral records

Soures of assassinallon recorde ard

additional recurds and information.

1400.4 Types ol materials included in scope

of assasaination record and additional

rocurde and information.

Requirement that assassinatlon

records be released In their enurely

1100.6 Originals and copies.

1400.7 Additional guidanca

1400 & Implementung the ARCA- Calalog of

Assassination Records

Authority: 44 U S.C. 2107 role.

§ 1400.1 Interpretation of assassinallon

record.

(a) An ussussination record includes.

but is not hmited to, all records, public

and private, regardless of how labeled or

identified, that documont, descnbe,

report, analyze, or interprot activities

and events that may have lod to the

assassination of President John F.

Kennedy; the assassination itself; and

Investigations of or inquiries into the

assassination.

(b) An assassination record furthor

includes, without limitation:

(1) All records as defined in Soc. 3(2)

of cho ARCA:

(2) All records called by or segregated

by all foderal, state, and local

government agencies in conjunction

with any investigation or analysis of or

Inquiry into the assassination of

President Kennedy. (for example, any

intra-agency investigation or analysis of

or inquiry into the assassination; any

inter-agency communication regarding

the assessination; any request by the

House Solect Committee on

Assassinations to collect documents and

othor materials; or any inter- or intra.

agency collection or segregation of

- documents and other materials):

(3) Other records or grouns of records

listed in the Catalog of Assassination

Records, as described in § 1400.8 of this

chapter.

$ 1400.2 Interpretation of additional

records and Informalon.

Tho term additional infonnation and

record's includes:

(a) All documents used by

governmont offices and agencies during

tholr declassification revlow of

assassination rocords as well as all other

documents, indices; records, and auler

matorial that disclose cryptonyms, code

namos, or othor identification material

in assassination rocords.

(b) All training manuals, instructional

materials, and guidelines croated or

used by the agencies in furhorance of

thoir roview of assassination recurds.

(c) All records. lists, und documents

describing the procedure by which the

agencies idenuded or sclocted

assassination recorde for revicto.

(d) Organizational charts of

governmeat agoncles.

(o) Records nocessary and sufferent so

destinbe the agency's:

(1) Rocords policies and schedules:

(2) Filing systems and organization:

(3) Storage facilitios and locations.

§ 1400.3 Sources of assassination records

and additonal records and Infomalion.

Assassination records and additional

records and information may bo localed..

al, or under the control of, without

limitation:

(a) Agencies, offices, and entities of

the executive, legislativo, and judicial

branches of the federal government:

(b) Agencies, offices, and entities of

tie exocutive, legislative, and judicial

branchos of state and local governments:

(c) Record ropositories and archives of

foderal, state, and local governments.

including presidential librarios:

(d) Record ropositories and archives

of universities, libraries, historical

socielles, and other similar

(o) Individuals who possess such

records by virtue of service with a

government agency, offico, or entity:

(1) Porsons, Including individuals and

corporations, who have obtained such

records from sources identified in

paragraphs (a) through (e) of this

(g) Federal, state, and local courts,

where such rocords are being hold

undor seal; or

(k) Foreign governments.

$ 1400.4 Types of materiais inctuded in

scope of assassination record and

addillonal recorde and Information.

Tho form record in assassination

record and additional records and -

information includos. for purposes of

interpreting and implementing tho

ARCA:

(a) Papers, maps. and other

documentary matorial;

(b) Photograpbs;

(c) Motion pictures:

(d) Sound and video recordings:

(o) Machino roadablo Information in

any form: and

---

## Page 21

14-00000

7508

"Federal Register / Vol. 60, No 28 / Weddesday, February 8. 1995 / Propused Rules

(1 Artifaces.

§ 1400.5 Requirement that assassination

records be relassod In their entroty.

An assassinatiou record shall be

disclosed in its entirety except for

portions specifically posiponod

pursuant to the grounds for

postponement of public disclosure of

records established in section 6 ol the

ARCA, and no portions of any

assassination records shall be withheld

from public disclosure solely on

grounds of nou-relevance.

$ 1400.€ Originals and coples.

(a) For purposes of determining

whother originals or copies of

assassination records may bo made part

ofthe President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection (the

JFK Records Colloction) lo ke

establishod under the ARCA:

(1) In the case of papers, maps, and

olber documentary material, the

Assassination Records Review Board

(the Board) may determine (bat a true

and accurate copy of the origiual is

sulfcient:

(2) In the case: of photograpbs, the

fero record means the original negative

if available. otherwise, le earliest

generation pant:

(3) In-tbe case uf mution pictures, the

term record means the camera original

if availabic, otherwise, the earliest

generation print.

(1) lu the case of sund and vidco

rocordings, the term record means the

original recording. il available,

otherwise, the earlies: generation copy;

(5) In the caso of machine-readable

information, the Board may determine

that a true and accurate copy of the

origínal is sufficient; and

(G) Artifacts meaus the original ubjecs

itsolf.

(b) In cases where a copy, as dofined

in paragraph (a) of this section is

authorized by the Board to be included

in the JFK Records Collection the Board

may, at its discretion, requira a certified

copy. In cases where an original, as

dolined in paragraph (a) of this section,

is roquired for inclusion in the JFK

Records Collection the Board may, at its

discretion, Accept the best available

сору.

$ 1400.7 Additional guldance:

(a) A govemnient agency, office.or

entity includes. for purposes of

interpreting and implementing the

ARCA, all departments, agencies,

offices, divisions, foreign offices.

burcaus, and deliberative bodies of any

federal, state, or local government and

includes all inter or latra-agency

workinggroups.committees. and

rootings that possess or croated rocords

relating to the assassination of frosident

John F. Keonady.

(b) The inclusion of arufocts in the

scope of the ter assassination record is

understood to apply solely for purposes

of establishing the President John F.

Konnedy Assassination Records

Collection and for fully implementing

tbe terras of the ARCA and bas no direct

or indirect bearing on the interpretation

or implementauon of any other statute

or regulation.

(c) In the case of artifacis deemed to

be assassination records and included in

the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collecuon, provision to tbe

public of photographs. drawings. or

similar materials depicting de artifacis

shall be sufficiont to comply with the

ARCA's requiramont that copios of

assassination records be provided to the

public upon request. Other display to or

examination by the public of artifacts in

tho John F. Kennody Assassination

Records Collection shall occur under

terns and conditions established by the

National Archives and Records

Administration that are adequato to

preserve and protect the artifaces for

pasterity...

(d) Tbo terrus and. or. ang, oll, and the

plural and singular forns of nouns shall

be understood in their broadcast and

most inclusive sense and shall not br

understood lo be terms of limitation.

Any records idenufied with respect to a

particular person also includes any

records for that person by any other

name, pseudonym, codeword, symbol.

number, cryptonyn or alias. Any record

described with respect to an operalion

or program includes any record

pertaining to that program by any other

name, pseudony, codeword, symbol.

number or cryptonym.

§14008 Implementing the ARCA Catalog

of Assassination Records

(a) A Catalog of Assassination Records

(COAR) shall be created as the official

listing of all records determined by the

Board to meet the definition of

assassination rocord.

(b) Notice of all decisions to include

records in the COAR will be-published

in the Federal Register within 30 days

of the decision.

(c) In listing records or groups of

records in the COAK, the Bourd must

detennine that the record or group of

records will more hibaly then uot

chance, carich, and broaden the

historical record of the assassination.

Dalud: February 3, 1095.

Dawld G. Marwell,

Executive Dirclor, Assassinacion Rocords

Review Board.

IFK DOC 95-3112 Filnd 2-7-45; 8:45 am!

BILLING CODE 8020-TD-UA

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

AGENCY

40 CFR Parts 51 and 93

(FRL-5140-9)

Transportation Conformity Rule

Amendments: Transition to the Control

Strategy Period

AGENCY: Enviroomental Protoction

Адельу (ЕРА).

ACTION: Proposed rula

SUMMARY: This action proposes to

permanently align the timing of certain

transportation conformity consequences

with the imposition of Clean Air Act

bighway sanctions. For ozone

nottilaiunent aras with an incomplere..

15% emissions-roduction state

implementation plan with a protective

finding; incomplete ozone attainmenu

3% rate-of-progress plan; or finding of

failure to submit an ozono allainment

• 3% ratt-of-progress plan, and areas

whose control strategy implementation

plan for ozone, carbon monoside.

particulate matter, or nitrogen deuxide is

disapproved will a protective finding.

the conformity status of the

transportation plan and program would

nut lapse as a result of such failure until

highway sanctions for such failuro are

effective under other Clean Air Act

sections.

This action would delay the lapse in

conformity status, which would

otherwise prevent approval of nos

highway and transit projects, and allow

States more time to prevent the lapse by

submitting complete ozono

ampiementaton plans

at A bas publisbed in the final rule

soction of this Federal Register a similar

interim final rule which takes cflect

immedialely and applies for six months.

This proposal would apply the

provisions of the interim final rule

permanently.

DATES: Comments on this action must be

received by March 10, 1995. A public

bearing will be held at 10:30 a.m. on

February 22, 1995 in Washington, DC.

ADDRESSES: Interested parties may

submit written comments (in duplicate.

il possiblo) to: Air and Radiation Docket

and Infonnation Center. U.S

Environmental Protection Agency.

Altention: Docket No. A-95-02. 401 M

Street, SW., WashingIon, DC 20460.

---

## Page 22

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL. USE ONLY

CSI-0316/95

16 February

1995

NOTE FOR: D/ IM/ADDA/IS

DCI/ IRO

DA/ IRO

DI/ IRO

DO/ IRO

DS&T/IRO

OGC (Bob Eatinger)

DD/OCA

C/IP&CRD

C/RDP/MSG/OIT

FROM :

John Pereira

Historical Review Group

SUBJECT:

JFK Assassination Records

Proposed Regulations

1.

Attached for your review and comment is a copy of

proposed regulations prepared by the JFK Assassination

Records Review Board.

definition

The regulations focus on the

of "assassination record", which is very broad:

The possibility of requiring additional records searches is

raised.

The Board plans to discuss the regulations at its

meeting on 6-7 March, so it would be helpful to give

the Board our input in advance of that meeting. Please

provide Barry Harrelson (x30292)) or me (x30373)) with your

comments by 1 March.

John F. Pereira

Attachment

- --

- -

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 23

14-00000

1 as

Ud.d

115151

2001

facsimile

TRANSMITTAL

to:

fax 77:

re:

date:

pages:

Dear John:

John Pereira, CLA Historical Review Program

(703) 243-8343.

ARRB proposed interpretive regulations

February 9, 1995

4, including cover sheel.

Following this cover sheet is a courtesy copy of the Assassination

Records Review Board's proposed interpretive regulations, published yesterday in the

Federal Register. The proposed regulations include guidance on interpretation of the

scope of certain provisions of the Assassination Records Collection Act, including the

termas "assassination record" and "additional records and information." The Board is

soliciung comment from all interested parties and would welcome any comments that

the CIA may havc. (The commient period is 30 days; the deadline is March 10.)

It you have any questions or need any additional information, please

don's hesitate to give me a call on my direct line or at our main number, 724-0088.

Singerely,

Ovely

Sher

1. Walter

General Counsel

From the dest of

Sheryli. Water

General Counsel

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street. AW, Second Floor

Washington, D.C. 20530

(202) 724-0315

Fax (202) 724-0457

---

## Page 24

27 February 1995

To:

C/HRG

Subj: Review Board's Proposed

• Regulations

1400.2 (e) (3), Storage facilities and locations, presents

possible conflict with our continuing protection of

1400.5, Requirement that assassination records be released

in their entirety...and no portion withheld solely on

grounds of non-relevance. For that portion of the documents

we have declared non-relevant that is operational and is

clearly non-relevant we should argue strongly with the

Board. The Director's

statutory responsibility for the

protection of sources and methods must be defended; and we

can be sure that it was not anticipated that a KGB officer

in Mexico City would be transferred to another country and

go on generating much operational information. Furthermore,

we saw it as the

Board's responsibility to review the

records we identified as non-relevant and to support --

publicly those of our decisions that they felt were

justified!

1400.6, Originals and copies, could cause problems if the

Board gets fussy about it. Originals of memos sent outside

che agency would be gone to the addressee. Originals of

sables and despatches are virtually non-existant.

1400.8(c),"

..the Board must determine that the record or

group cecorats more takely than not enhance, enrich,

and broaden the historical record.." Like some of this stuff

might be non-relevant?

Frank

---

## Page 25

New Note

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

DATE:

02/27195 05:02:46 PA

SUBJECT: JIK Records

@DCI

This is in response to vour request that l reviem ASAf Me nursent regrelatioris by thra ,1FK

Assassination Rusords Revlow Board.

I ser Sharyl Walters hand very much in endance here I soe from the aftachment that she is the Board's

GC.

Lise you, I am very concened aboul the breadth of the rag's refinitions The key to koop in mind is the

statutory authority for the Board. I would argue that the de nition of "assassination record" in the stature

(74 U.5.C. section 2107 note, section 3(2) of the ACl) is irona limiterd than the reg: The spalute dolings an

assassination record as one "rolated' to me assassinatien of JFK. Thus, when section 1400.2 (d) and lei

of the rea authorize Board access to orgartizational charis of anvernmental agencies and records

nocessary and suttician to describo the agency's records policios and schedules. flina sustens and

organization, and storage facilities and locatiors, I mur argue that such information is way 10o far a-relo.

There is no way we can allow the Beard to have access to this information, which in any event is

prohibited br section 403g from disclosure notwithstanding any other law

The same issue arises with respect lo cretion 1400.7(d) of the reg that proposes to include in the

definition of rocord any records for a person by another name or personal identitier. This mould aopear lo

authorize Board access to all information aboid an agent who may have only been tangenirally involved in

the ascaccination but whose crypt is given in many other unrelated documents about unrelated

operations. Talk aboul your canis nose under the ten!

Finally, section 1400.5 of the reg raises an pir dog of an issue. The National Securly Archive (Sharyis

old employer! has been fightina for a lona time in FOlA litigation that the TOlA refers to records and that

therefore all information in a responsive record must be released unless otherwies axompl. There se no

FOlA exemption, they arque. for non-responsive material in a record. This is a big problem for multi-lour:

duournents. such as the NID. We.

. of crurse, argue that agencies are only required to process that which

is asked for and delete non-responsive material as unrequested. The proposed reg would mean that le

Board would lave ancess to all information in a documem abour several unrelated opcratons or cuents if

Shat document even mentioned the assassination or anything related 1o il. Again. fle camels prost:

CC:

DCI

---

## Page 26

AOMMISTRATUS ANTERMA USE ONLY

From the Desk of Robert J. Eatinger

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

Mere is advance copy:

J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

Robert J. Eatinger

03/01/95 01:46:44 PM

Comments on proposed JFK reg

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

OGC- 95-50522

1 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group

FROM:

Robert J. Eatinger, JI.

Assistant General Counsel

Litigation Division, OGC

SUBJECT:

Comments on JFK Assassination Records Proposed

Regulation

1.

The following are my comments on the Assassination

Records Review Boards proposed interpretive regulations published

in the Federal Register on 8 February 1995.

The term assassination record is defined in the

President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992, Pub.L. 102-525, 106 Stat. 3443, Oct. 26, 1992, reprinted at

44 U.S.C. § 2107 note (the Act). Any interpretive definition by

the Board cannot exceed that in the Act. The Acts definition is

found in Section 3(2) and provides:

(a) Assassination record means a record that is related to

the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, that was

created or made available for use by, obtained by, or

otherwise came into possession of

various Federal, State, or local government bodies.

3. The proposed regulation is broader than that in the Act.

The proposed regulation includes as assassination records:

records, public and private, regardless of how labeled or

identified, that document, describe, report, analyze, or

interpret activities and events that may have led to

• the

ADMINISTRATIVE/ INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 27

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

assassination of President John F. Kennedy; the

assassination itself; and investigations of or inquiries

into the assassination.

§ 1400.1(a). This language in overbroad in two respects. First,

the phrase events that may have led to is both broader than

relates to as in the Act and provides no articulable standard.

For instance, the theme in the Oliver Stone movie JFK appears to

be that President Kennedy was assassinated as a result of a

conspiracy to keep the war in Vietnam from winding down. Under

the proposed regulation, the Board might consider all records

" concerning the war in Vietnam during the Kennedy Administration

as being assassination records.

Without a standard, the phrase

is permits arbitrary and inconsistent application.

Third, it

includes information about investigations and inquiries other

than those conducted by those entities identified in the Act.

Although the Board states that it is following the intent of

Congress in seeking the most comprehensive disclosure of records

related to the assassination, it appears the Board may be

exceeding its authority.

4. The definition further states that assassination record

includes, without limitation ... all records as defined in Sec.

3(2) of the ARCA.

See § 1400.1 (b) (1). Thus, by its terms it

exceeds the statutory definition.

Further, it is unhelpful

because by refusing to limit itself to any articulable class of

records it remains unlimited and subject to constant

re-interpretation by the Board.

5. The proposed definition of additional information and

records under proposed $ 1400.2 is objectionable because the

regulation does not provide the intended use of the definition.

The Board may be attempting to provide a definition useful in

interpreting the Boards authority under §7(j) (1) (C) (ii) of the

Act:

The Review Board shall have the authority to act in a manner

orescribed under this Act including authority to ... direct

a Government office to make available to the Review Board,

and if necessary investigate the facts surrounding,

additional information, records, or testimony from

individuals,

which the Review Board has reason to believe is

required to

fulfill its functions and responsibilities under

this Act....

(Emphasis added.) If this is the case, the Board should

expressly so state and provide opportunity for informed comment

on that application.

For instance,-proposed S 1400.2(a) includes

all documents used by the agency during its declassification

review.

This definition could include requests for legal advice

on particular matters.

Such advice would be protected within the

particular agency by attorney-Client privilege and should not be

provided to an extra-agency body.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 28

14-00000

6.

Please

call

me

ADMINSTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

with any questions or suggestions.

Robert J. Eatinger, JI.

CC:

AMITATE TERMAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 29

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

TO:

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

John F. Pereira

03/02/95 05:07:45 PM

Re: Proposed Regs by JFK Assassination Records Review Board

a number of us have concerns about the broad approach in the proposed regs. Among others, Bob Eatinger has written a memo on th

ubject. We are preparing a formal response for the Board, which will be sent around for commer

In the meantime, I have had an informal discussion with the Board's Executive Director, David Marwell, advising him of our concerns. He

has invited us to propose specific textual changes.

The Board's deadline is 10 March.

Any additional thoughts would be welcome

CC:

Edmund Cohen @DA@DCl, J. Edwin Dietel@DA@ DCI,/

@ DCI

-.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 30

11.00000 .

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk offl

OCA

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

Edmund Cohen @ DA

J. Edwin Dietel @ DA

John F. Pereira @ DA

03/02/95 04:22:48 PM

Proposed Regs by JFK Assassination Records Review Board

Page and I are very concerned about the overly broad reach of the proposed regulations of the JFK Board. I have prepared specific

comments that I will send by separate cover. In essence, we are concerned that the regs reach too far into Agency records and stray too

far from the definition of an "assassination record" in the law. What input does ClA have into this process and what are the time

constraints? It looks like a power grab. It seems to us that Cohen should engage immediately in his role as Chair of the Agency Release

Panel. The full ARP might wish to address these issues at it 9 March meeting. Please advise.

CC:

DCI

• DCI

-

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 31

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTE FOR:

J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

FROM:

DATE:

03/02/95 09:25:33 AM

SUBJECT:

Response to the JFK Proposed Regulation

This vehicle seemed to be the best one available to pass my "bullets" to you. Perhaps you can dump them in a Word file and

ammend them with your thoughts.

1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record

makes us vulnerable for capricious search demands

1400.2 Interpretation of Additional Records

a.) and b.J This relates to Agency classified resources that refer to

the total Agency mission. - well beyond the "assassination" subject.

otreport

says R.B should

vet on a reasmabo

Identification of all such resources will require a separate effort

requiring substantial resources. In addition it may be impossible to

identify all such specific resources as the review effort involved

many people having experience throughout the Agency.

basis

These resources are classified and most probably would be

recommended for "indefinite" postponement.

d.) and e.) Information described in these sections has been and is

protected by the National Security Act

As a time period for this information is not stated it is thus implied to

be open ended and that all such information would be made

available.

Major Concern

201 dopfiles

1400.5 Requirement That Assassintion Records Be Released In Their

Entirety

If an individual's

• Nonrelevance issue will most likely result in marked increase in

minor involuement in

postponed records.

Othe JFk stay or in.

1400.6 Originals and Copies

anti Cuban activitier

a.) Large portion of CIA's JFK collection is comprised of copies. A

search for originals will require a massive resource commitment.

make his complete

There we dial i siren ta mer frosty aried file (on all filos on

documents in the collections.

1400.7 Additional Guidance

the ridividual) we

d.) Application of this requirement may well jeopardize current

postponements aimed at protecting Agency personnel and sources

This requirement also implies a new generation of searches to

"round-out" or to verify previous searches and retrieved material..

& privary problem

CC:

--

1357

---

## Page 32

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

7 March 1995

NOTE FOR: Bob Eatinger, OGC

SUBJECT:

JFK Proposed Regulations

As we discussed, I would appreciate your view as to

whether OGC should send a separate paper to the JFK Board on

the proposed regulations.

The attached is what we in HRG propose to coordinate in

the Agency today, 7 March, depending on your view. I'll

hold off circulating the attached draft for comment until

I've heard from you.

(The Board asks

for comments by 10 March.)

John

Pereira

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE

ONLY

---

## Page 33

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

9 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Per your requestl

J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

JFK Assassination Records Proposed Regulations

foncurs with the proposed regulation.

CC:

OST

---

## Page 34

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSI-0319/95

8 March 1995

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

D/IM/ADDA/IS

DCI / IRO

DA/IRO

DI / IRO

DO / IRO

DS&T/ IRO

OGC (Bob Eatinger)

DD/OCA

C/IP&CRD

C/RDP/MSG/OIT

John Pereira

Historical Review Group

JFK Assassination Records

Proposed Regulations

Please review attached draft comments on the proposed

regulations prepared by the JFK Assassination Review Board.

Our deadline for comments to the Board is 10 March, so

please send me or Barry Harrelson your suggestions by cob

9 March

Jhe Perina

John Pereira

Attachments

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 35

8 Man

Mr. David Marwell

Dear David,

We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the

Assassination Records Review Board's proposed interpretive

regulations as published in the federal Register,

8, 1995.

We recognize the value of providing quidance for

those who are responsible for implementing the Assassination

Records Collection Act.

our general view is that the regulations are

comprehensive in identifying the range of records that woul

ootentially be relevant to the JFK assassination or the

scope of the investigations into the assassination.

In a few sections of the regulations the wording seems

somewhat overly broad or the meaning is not clear.

Attached

for the Board's consideration are comments on these

sections.

In some parts of the text we suggest possible

in wording

for purposes of clarification.

We would be pleased to discuss these comments at the

Board's convenience.

It is our intention to continue

cooperating fully with the Board and to make every effort to

release assassination records held by the Agency.

John F. Pereira

Historical Review Group, CIA

---

## Page 36

1d-0n0d

.....

Following are CIA's comments on specific sections of the

Assassination Records Review Board's interpretive

regulations, as published in the Federal Register, February

8,

1995.

1.

Section 1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record

In paragraph (a) the reference to "activities and events

that may have led to the assassination--"

seems overly

broad, and appears to go beyond the limits established in

the Assassination Records Collection Act. We believe that

it would be helpful to include an articulable standard in

this section.

The

present text would permit inconsistent

application of the regulations, which might encourage

massive and expensive, additional records searches that are

of doubtful value.

The following change is suggested in paragraph (a):

"activities and events that may reasonably be

considered to have led to the assassination "

(This would

be consistent with the Act.)

2.

Section 1400.2 Interpretation of additional records and

information

Paragraph (a) raises a question as to the purpose and

definition of "additional records and information.

The

meaning of the phrase "all documents used--during

declassification review of assassination records as well as

all other documents--"seems unclear. Is it the intention to

include any document, book, index, record system, etc.

regardless of relevance to the assassination or

investigations, including for example, legal opinions ?

assume that the purpose is to enable the Board to request

purpose is

We

and review additional records.

We suggest that the section be made more specific,

including a clearer statement of the intent.

For example,

with

respect to cryptonyms,

codewords, guides, etc. a more

• precise link to events related to the assassination or to a

timeframe could be helpful.

---

## Page 37

1d-0d0d

3 .

Section 1400.5

be released

in their entirety

Requirement that assassination records

The introductory paragraph specifies that "no portions

of any assassination record shall be withheld--solely on

This appears to open the door

for access to

entire documents that contain information on

sensitive activities even when the documents contain.

Information that is only incidental to the assassination,

such as a passing reference to a name.

There is a potential

risk that sensitive, non-relevant sources and methods would

be compromised.

We suggest that the Board consider adding wording to this

section that accommodates those instances when there is a

to release ample information from a document to

disclose assassination-related material, while still

protecting obviously unrelated, sensitive information. The

Board, of course, would continue to have access to the

entire

record.

4. Section 1400.7 Additional guidance

Paragraph (d)

states "any records identified with

respect to a particular person also includes any records for

chat person by any other name, pseudonym, codeword," etc.

This appears to require that all records on any individuals

who are merely mentioned in an assassination record be made

available.

Is the objective really to assure that all files

on an individual or activity be made available regardless of

the labels on the files? If so, we suggest that the text be

modified to reflect this.

---

## Page 38

In the letter to David, I would add at the end of the third

paragraph:

"Our Office of General Counsel provided some legal comments

on the scope of the definition that we've included in the

attached."

In the attachment under the comments to Section 1400.1:

After the first sentence,

ending with "beyond the limits

established by the [ARCA]", I suggest adding the following

sentences:

"The Act authorized the Board

regulations.

to issue interpretive

Interpretive regulations, while entitled to great

deference, cannot be inconsistent with the congressional intent

to cover only certain specific activities.

Rather, they should

stay within the clearly articulated definitions provided by

Congress.

This is particularly important with respect to the

definition of "assassination records" since the ARCA has a

overriding effect on other statutory grants of power found

necessary in the interests of national security, such as the

National Security Act's direction that the Director of Central

Intelligence protect intelligence sources and methods from

unauthorized disclosure.

The ARCA provides a statutory standard

for protecting or "postponing" intelligence sources and methods"

that applies only to "assassination records."

The standard in

the ARCA restricts those sources and methods that can be

protected in assassination records.

The Review Board is given

the ultimate authority to apply that standard, subject to being

overridden only by the President.

Thus, the ARCA reflects a

congressional desire to limit the DCI's

authority to protect

sources and methods, but only for "assassination records" as ARCA

defined it. An interpretive definition by the Board that would

sweep in records not covered by the Act, we believe, would exceec

the Board's limited rulemaking authority.

Thus, the proposed

definition should be limited more clearly to those records

identified by Congress as

"assassination records.

To do this, we

believe

....

---

## Page 39

This page is

FROM

Exitengee

3/10195

2. General Cument

In the letter to David, I would add at the end of the third

paragraph:

"Our Office of General Counsel provided some legal comments

on the scope of the definition that we've included in the

attached.

In the attachment under the comments to Section 1400.1:

After the first sentence,

ending with "beyond the limits

established by the [ARCAj"

, I suggest adding the following

sentences:

"The Act authorized the Board to issue interpretive

regulations.

Interpretive regulations, while entitled to great

deference,

cannot be inconsistent with the congressional intent

to cover only certain specific activities.

Rather, they should

stay within the clearly articulated definitions provided by

Congress. This is particularly important with respect to the

definition of "assassination records" since the ARCA has a

overriding effect on other statutory grants of power found

necessary in the interests of national security, such as the

National Security Act's direction that the Director of Central

Intelligence protect intelligence sources and methods from

unauthorized disclosure.

The

ARCA provides a statutory standard

for protecting or "postponing" intelligence sources and methods"

that applies only to "assassination records."

The standard in

the ARCA restricts those sources and methods that can be

protected in assassination records.

The Review Board is given

the ultimate authority to apply that standard, subject to being

overridden only by the President.

congressional desire to limit the DCI's authority to protect

it so pay that a

Thus, the ARCA reflects a

sources and methods, but only for "assassination records" as ARCA

defined it. An interpretive definition by the Board that would

sweep in records not covered by the Act, we believe, would exceed

the Board's limited rulemaking authority. Thus, the proposed

definition should be limited more clearly to those records

identified by Congress as "assassination records.

believe

To do this, we

---

## Page 40

2. Following are comments on specific sections of the

Assassination Records Review Board's interpretive

regulations, as published in the Federal Register, February

8, 1995.

a. Section 1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record

In paragraph (a) the reference to "activities and events

that may have led to the assassination--"

seems overly

broad, and appears to go beyond the limits established in

the Assassination Records Collection Act.

We believe that

it would be helpful to include an articuable standard in

this section.

The present text would permit inconsistent

application of the regulations, which might encourage

massive and expensive, additional records searches that are

of doubtful value.

The following change is suggested in paragraph (a) :

"activities and events that may reasonably be

considered to have led to the assassination--"

(This would

be consistent with the Act.)

b.

• Section 1400.2 Interpretation of additional records

and information

Paragraph (a) raises a question as to the purpose and

definition of "additional records and information." The

meaning of the phrase "all documents used--during

declassification review of assassination records as well as

all other documents--"seems overly broad and unclear. As

presently worded, this section would appear to include any

locument, book, index, record system, etc. regardless of

relevance to the assassination or investigations, including

for example,

legal opinions.

We assume that the purpose is

to enable the Board to request and review additional

records.

We suggest that the section be made more specific,

including a clearer statement of the intent. For example,

with respect to cryptonyms, codewords, guides, etc. a more

precise link to events related to the assassination or to a

timeframe could be helpful.

Section 1400.5 Requirement that assassination records

be released in their entirety

The introductory paragraph specifies that "no portions of

This appears to open the door

for access

to entire documents that contain information on

---

## Page 41

sensitive activities even when the documents contain

Information that is only incidental to the assassination

such as a passing reference to a name.

There is a potential

risk that sensitive, non-relevant sources and methods would

be compromised.

We suggest that the Board consider adding wording to this

section that accommodates those instances when there is a

need to release ample information from a document to

disclose assassination-related material, while still

protecting obviously unrelated, sensitive information. The

Board,

of course, would continue to have access to the

entire

record.

d.

Section 1400.7 Additional guidance

Paragraph (d) states "any records identified with respect

to a particular person also includes any records for that

person by any other name, pseudonym, codeword," etc.

This

appears to require that all records on any individuals-who

are merely mentioned in an assassination record be made

available.

We assume that the purpose is more specific

i.e., to assure that all files on an individual or activity

be made available regardless of the labels on the files. We

suggest that the text be modified to reflect this.

--.

---

## Page 42

•MAR 01 '95 12:51PM

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

P.2

1 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

John Pereira

Barry Harrelson

CSI/HRG

FROM:

Kathryn I. Dyer

DI/ IRO

SUBJECT:

Comments--ARRB Proposed Interpretive Regulations

1.

I have reviewed the proposed interpretive regulations

drafted by the Assassination Records Review Board, particularly

the sections addressing the ARRB's interpretation of the scope of

certain provisions of the Assassination Recorde Collection Act.

While I have commente on a number of sections, there is one

section in particular which raises serious concerns--principally

1400.2 regarding additional information and records.

2.

As presently worded, this section opens up significant

records which have nothing to do per se with the assassination.

and which are currently protected by various laws, including the

National Security Act of 1947, and, moreover, are exempt from

disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.

For example, (d) Organizational charts of government agencies.

(e) Records necessary and sufficient to describe the

the

• Agency's:

(1) Records policies and schedules;

(2) Filing systems and organization; and

(3) Storage facilities and location.

tems (a) and (b) of thia section (1400.2) also pose simila

roblems in that (a) includes all documents used by agencie

during their declassification review...Thie includes alz

materials including omnibus classitication guides or other

materials (1.e, not merely those prepared for use in the JFK

review) which would identify sensitive material across the board.

similarly, item (b) includes materials "created or used by

agencies

in furtherance of their review...."

This entire section

should at a minimum be restricted to items created by agencies

for use in the assassination reviews.

For example, if the Do has

a master list of cryptonyms, some of which appear in JEr

documents, only the subset should be included. Generic

categories of information which stand alone on their own merite

should be omitted.

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 43

799999

MAR 01 '95 12:52PM

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

P.3

Recommend: Delete Items (d) and (e).

subpart (a) should be

confined to documents created by agencies (vice used) during

their declassification review.

If provisions (d) and (e) are not deleted and a and b

not limited to materials created by or created solely for use in

the assassination review, an additional section should be added

that applies to section 1400.2 in its entirety.

This should

state that information created independent of the assassination

review will be released unless protected by other laws, Executive

Orders, and/or regulatione.

3. Other Comments:

1400.1 (a)

Recommend:

Insert the word "reasonably" between "may have

(reasonably) led to the assassination..."

The mere allegation that foreign eventa or

international developments may have led to the

assassination at this point in time (after all

the investigations) should not bring recorde

not related to the assassination on their face

within the scope of this act. There ahould be

an objective standard, 1.e., reasonable person

1400.6

Originals and copies.

Recommend: (2) and (3) Add the word "available" after "the

earliest generation print (availablel."

Otherwise no provision to cover situation when

earliest generation print can't be located.

2

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 44

14-00009

MAR 81 95 12:53PM

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

P. 4

1400.8

Implementing the ARCA - Catalog of Assassina-

tion Records. (COAR)

Sections (a) and (c) appear to be inconsistent.

As presently worded, former specifles all

records will be listed in COAR: latter section

implies not all records will be listed, 1.e..

requirement that in listing one muet determine

that the record will more likely than not

enhance, enrich....

If any questions, please call 54644 (secure).

Cathryn I. Dyes

3

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 45

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

John F. Pereira @ DCI

UZZT795 UZ: TS:20 PM

Comments re the JFK Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

1. In general there is not much in the regulation to cause the DA undo concern except for Sec. 1400.2 Interpretation of

additional records and information; specifically (e), (11, (2), & (3). The schedules are classified in the agregate, filing systems and

organization structures are classified in toto, and the storage facility is an Agency Records Center at a classified location. I know this

may not be a lot of help, but I have little or no argument/comment concerning the other sections.

2. If you have any questions/comments, please call me on 30683)or note.

CC:

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 46

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

22 February 1995

Executive Secretariat

Information Review Officer

John F. Pereira

Historical REview Group

Attn:

Barry Harrelson

Barry,

Do not agree with "no portions of any

assassination records shall be withheld

from public disclosure solely on grounds

of non-relevance." See Section 1400.5.

Non-relevant material should not have to

be reviewed for declassification & release.

This could be a never-ending project.

Thanks

for the opportunityato comment.

t-

DCI/ IRO

---

## Page 47

1 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Mr. Periera

Gary Breneman

Comments on Proposed Rules, 36 CFR

Part 1400, Concerning JFK Records

Collection Act of 1992

1. You asked that I review subject proposed rules and

provide my thoughts and concerns. This is in response to

that request.

As a general statement, the proposed rules are not

well written and seem to try to cast the biggest net

possible.

With reference to poor draftsmanship, note that

at Sec. 1400.2, they introduce a term "additional information

and records,

and describe what the term includes.

Compare

sections 1400.3 relating to "sources" and 1400.4 relating to

"(t)ypes of materials."

In the latter, they have reversed

the term and used "additional records and information."

While the intent is fairly clear, it causes one to wonder

what they had in mind.

3. With reference to the big net approach, it is a

basic rule of statutory and regulatory drafting to not write

laws and regulations which cannot be enforced. In this

regard, I know of no authority in U.S. law, including the

JFK Act, which would give the Board jurisdiction over

records which "may be located at, or under the control

"(f)oreign governments."

See 1400.4 (b). I have a

similar concern with respect to "private"

records. Cf. Sec.

1400.1 (a).

4 .

On the nonsensical side of the big net approach is

every book, magazine and newspaper article and which has

ever been written that may "report, analyze, or interpret"

the assassination.

See 1400.1 (a).

If read literally, the

Agency would have to give up all of its collections of

private books, etc. which fall within this definition. This

is particularly true of those books we referred to here

within HRG for information and understanding as we conducted

the review.

See 1400.2 (a)

-- (a)ll documents used by

government offices and agencies during their

declassification review of assassination records..."

---

## Page 48

With specific reference to the requirement of

1400.2 (a), the Agency should be concerned about its records

within the

Do which tie crypts to true names of projects and

alias' and pseudos to the true names of individuals.

Because we regularly called the DO office responsible for

these matters for assistance in identifying the projects and

names behind the crypts and alias, ' this subsection would

seem to place those document holdings within the reach of

the Board. This needs to be addressed.

Turning to 1400.7 (d), the Agency should be very

careful here.

In HRG's review and release of documeats, we

have often given out an alias but protected the true name.

In others, we have given out the true name but protected the

alias or pseudo.

This section seems to vitiate that effort

and needs to be addressed.

6. I have several thoughts on the non-relevant issue

which would take several more paragraphs. Suffice It to

say, carried to its extreme, if the Board can in any way

make the case a document is an assassination record,

they are

entitled to access to it and may direct its

release.

I would be pleased to discuss any of these items

with you if you wish.

- ::

---

## Page 49

1d-0d0

• A.

2 March 1995

Assassination Record Definition: Comments

Background Section:

[the statement "search and disclosure of records...must go

beyond the records of previous commissions.."" is based on a

similar statements on pages 19

& 21 of the Report to

accompany S. 3000]

Section 1400.1 - Interpretation of Assassination Record

(a) "An assassination record includes,..., all

records... that may have led to the assassination..."

[S.3006

states that the "Board should act on a reasonable

basis in requesting additional records. Recommend we insert

"reasonably" into statement after "have" (or change may to

reasonably could)]

(b) (2) "All records...or segregated by all

Federal...agencies in conjunction with any investigation..."

(means all "microfilm" documents are assassination records,

and will have to be reviewed

and accounted for even if we

are successful in "postponing" most of these records]

1400.2

Interpretation of additional records and

information.

(a) "All documents used by government offices and

agencies during their declassification review of

assassination records as well as all other documents,

indices orde nand o be mate la thai dise material in

cryptonyms, code

assassination records.

[Section (a) is too inclusive; as written would include ANY

document, book, Index, record system or other material

consulted or "used" during the review, regardless of

relevance

to JFK assassination.

In fact, most of the

material

"used" in the review was used to determine if

information/names/etc. had been previously released and had

nothing to do with the assassination or investigations.

Also the part of the statement following "as well as" needs

clarification.

Are they asking for all records that contain

information on individuals mentioned in assassination

records or are they asking for the records/indices/etc. that

were

used to identify individuals mentioned by crypt or code

name in assassination records.

I the amendment recommended by FBI covers CIA concerns;

ideally the word "used"

should be changed to "created"]

---

## Page 50

14-00000

1400.2 (continued)

(b) & (c) [ ok]

(d) & (e) ladd

wording to identify time period for

these records such as

"at the time of the assassination and

investigations".]

1400.5 Requirement that assassination records be released in

their entirety.

An assassination record shall be disclosed in its

entirety except for portions specifically postponed.

no portions of any assassination records shall be withheld

from public disclosure solely on grounds of non-relevance.

[If this applies to an "individual" assassination record

then there is no problem.

However, if it applies, as I

suspect, to files and groups of records then we have a major

problem of privacy and source protection with the or and 201

files. It may be possible to

"postpone" the 201 and OP

files under the Privacy exemption and National Security Act,

however, the FBl approach to amendina the requlation to deal

with "incidental appearance of assassination material" seems

a better approach. Our proposed amendment should include

"files" as well as

"records"

1400.6 Originals and Copies

(a) (2) add "available" after "the earliest generation

print"

(b) in cases where a copy, as defined in paragraph (a)

of this section is authorized... the board may...require a

certified copy.

lan some cases our file copy or original is a previously

sanitized copy of the document; we may have to "certify"

theses copies as the "original" file copy.]

1400.7 Additional guidance

(d)..Any records identified with respect to a

particular person also includes any records for that person

by any other name, pseudonym, codeword, symbol, number or

cryptonym.. •

[This needs clarification. It the goal of this section is.

to ensure that all files on an individual/project are

provided regardless of how filed (under name, crypt,

etc.)

then I do not see a problem.

However, with out clarifying

language, this section could lead to the type of situation

described by Gloria. FBI also requested clarification.]

---

## Page 51

Issues:

Non-related (36,000 pages) and OP (10,000 pages) material

in microfilm collection

ven thought the request dealt with specific events o

timeframes.

However, given their objective of goin

"beyond" previous investigations, I not sure this would have

any impact.

A different approach would be to deny or postpone personnel

type files including 201s that are not related to the

assassination (guidelines to be established in consultation

with the Board) as unwarranted invasion of privacy and/or

Non-related material are from 201 files; the remaining

10,000+ pages are from organization and project files.

---

## Page 52

14-00000

lo mach

To:

C/HRG

Subject: OGC's comments on proposed JFK regulations.

Bob's comments should be included in our response to

however, not as he has recommended.

The language

and tone is very different and does not inserted well into

existing text; I think his comments will work better as a

separate paragraph or as an addendum.

Barry

---

## Page 53

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

10 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

John F. Pereira

JFK Assassination Records Proposed Regulations

10 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

John F. Pereira @ DA

William H. McNair

DO/RO

JFK Assassination Records Proposed Regulations

CSÍ-0319/95, subject as above, dtd 8 March 1995

1. The DO concurs in ref comments and would add the following:

A. Comment Par 2 re Section 1400.2 - para d and e(3) call for "Organizational

charts of government agencies" and "Records necessary and sufficient to describe and agency's

storage facilities and locations".

Organizational charts of detail are classified and release would have to be

balanced against DCI mandate to protect such details.

Description and location of agency's storage facilities are classified and

release of such information would have to be balanced against security concerns and DCI mandate

to protect such information.

B. Comment 4 re Section 1400.7 - Consideration should be given to protect

records and files of different time frame not related to JFK where the subject is but a passing

name or reference. To reveal full records could endanger national security without adding to

body of information relating to JFK

2. Believe these two comments should be considered for inclusion into official CIA.

remarks.

CC:

CC:

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 54

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

MOTE FOR:

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

John Pereira @ DCI

Barry Harrelson @ DCI

Kathryn 1. Dyer @ DI @DCI

03/10/95 08:13:32 AM

Comments re Assassination Records Review Board's Interpretive

Regulations

1. I have reviewed the draft comments prepared for the Agency regarding the AARB's

proposed

interpretive regulations and believe some modifications are in order.

2. First and faremost, the comments regarding Section 1400.2 do not adequately address the concerns previously raised regarding the

unbrided inclusion of categories of records that have nothing to do with JFK's assassination, e.., organization charts, records schedules,

filing systems, etc. This section should

- be limited to items created by agencies for use in the assassination review. Generic categories.

of information which stand alone on their merits should be included. This section is overly broad

and inclusive. (Please see the discussion in my 1 March memorandum.) Contrary to the proposed

comment that the intent of this section is "unclear", I think it is eminently clear, and that's the problem.

I think our concerns would be better served by raising in terms of scope rather than intent. Also

recommend against asking questions such as "Is it the intent...?" Heck, yes! Would suggest wording

along the lines-"As presently worded, this section would appear to include..."

3. The proposed comment on Section 1400.7 opens the door to all records on a person vice those

relevant to the assassination inquiries. Do we really want to set ourselves up for the obvious response to the question we are asking?

There are a number of different points here that need to be clarified, all dealing with scope. The board's legitimate concern that all

records on an individual records be addressed (regardless of how filed, eg.under another name, pseudonym, etc.). And an equally

legitimate Agency concern that

1.) records on an individual when the records themselves are not relevant to the assassination inquiry,

(i.e. other records on the individual may be), or 2. ) that all records on individuals who merely happen

to be mentioned in a document falling within the scope of the assassination inquiry (but the individuals themselves are not the subject of

investigation) should not be subsumed within the scope of these

regulations.

CC:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 55

14-00000

1o:

C/HRG

Subject:

OGC's comments on proposed JEK regulations.

OGC submission

Bob's comments should be included in our response to

and tone is veerintent and no mate well ete

existing text; I think his comments will work better as a

separate paragraph or as an addendum.

2)

DI IRO

Kathy's comments on section 1400.2 are on target, but a

little strong. I don't think the board will buy changed

Our proposed response, as written,

does question the scope but not directly.

(note:

The FBI

if accepted by the board, would

satisfactorily limit the scope of this section).

She does

have a point in changing "intent" to "as presently worded".

On section 1400.7, Kathy's reaction is the same as

Gloria's.

I think our response adequately address the

concerns here, but could be strengthen without changing the

tone of the response. (Note - OGC comments will also address

scope" which clearly is Kathy's primary concern.

Barry

---

## Page 56

Mr. David Marwell

Dear David,

We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the

1o as cognite Chi value go propone grease are

8, 1995.

those who are responsible for implementing the Assassination

Our general view is that the regulations are

comprehensive in identifying the range of records that would

potentially be relevant to the JFK assassination or the

scope of the investigations into the assassination.

In a few sections of the regulations the wording seems

somewhat overly broad or the meaning is not clear.

Attached

for the Board's consideration are comments on these

sections.

In some parts of the text we suggest possible

changes in wording for purposes of clarification.

We would be pleased to discuss these comments at the

Board's convenience.

It is our intention to continue

cooperating fully with the Board and to make every effort to

release assassination records held by the Agency.

John F. Pereira

Historical Review Group, CIA

---

## Page 57

Following are CIA's comments on specific sections of the

Assassination Records Review Board's interpretive

regulations, as published in the Federal Register, February

8, 1995.

1. Section 1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record

In paragraph (a) the reference to "activities and events

that may have led to the assassination--"

broad, and appears to go beyond the limits established in

the Assassination Records Collection Act. We believe that

it would be helpful to include an articuable standard in,

section.

massive and expensive, additional records searches that are

of doubtful value.

The following change is suggested in paragraph (a) :

"activities and events that may reasonably be

considered to have led to the assassination--"

(This would'

be consistent with the Act.)

2.

Section 1400.2 Interpretation of additional records and

information

Paragraph (a) raises a question as to the purpose and

definition of "additional records and information."

The

meaning of the phrase "all documents used--during

declassification review of assassination records as well as

all other documents--"seems unclear. Is it the intention to

include any document, book, index, record system, etc.

regardless of relevance to the assassination or

investigations, including for example, legal opinions? We

assume that the purpose is to enable the Board to request

and review additional records.

We suggest that the section be made more specific,

including a clearer statement of the intent. For example,

with

respect to cryptonyms, codewords, guides, etc. a more

precise link to events related to the assassination or to a

timeframe could be helpful.

3. Section 1400.5

Requirement

that assassination records

be released in their entirety

The introductory paragraph specifies that "no portions

of any assassination record

shall be withheld--solely on

grounds of non-relevance."

This appears to open the door

for access

to entire documents that contain information on

sensitive activities even when the documents contain

---

## Page 58

td-0n0d

information that is only incidental to the assassination,

such as a

passing reterence to a name.

There is a potential

risk that sensitive, non-relevant sources and methods would

be compromised.

We suggest that the Board consider adding wording to this

section that accommodates those instances when there is a

need to release ample information from a document to

disclose assassination-related material, while still

protecting obviously unrelated, sensitive information. The

Board, of course, would continue to have access to the

entire record.

4. Section 1400.7 Additional guidance

Paragraph (d) states "any records identified with

respect to a particular person also includes any teete for

that person by any other name, pseudonym, codeword,

This appears to require that all records

on any individuals

who are merely mentioned in an assassination record be made

available.

Is the objective really to assure that all files

on an individual or activity be made available regardless of

the labels on the files? If so, we suggest that the text be

modified to reflect this.

---

## Page 59

HAIL AL.ON GONNAINA

AAAN

Federal Register / Vul. 60. No. 124 / Wednesday, june 28, 1995 / Rules and Rogulilions

33395

(0) of thus section shall be completed by

Ocrobest 1, 1995.

paragraph (o) of this section shall be

completed by Octobot 2, 1995.

PART 1926 SAFETY AND HEALTH

REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION

5. The authonty citation of subpart 2

of 29 CFR Part 1936 is reviseel lu read

Authoriry: Secuuns 6 mal 8, Decapational

Salely and Health 461, 29 US.C. uss. 657.

Steichry of Labur's Order Nos 12-71 136,

FK 87541. 8-76 (41 FK 25054). 5-83 /40 FR

337368081-90 (55 FRyu03) as applicable.

Secion 1926 1101 also lisued under 5

Suction 1920.1102 nur isgued you: 19

Sc. 6860029C1R part lyll. aiso listled

Section 1026 1103 through 1926. 1118 alsu

Section 1920.1128 also esseel under 29

Section 1626.1145 and 1426 1148 also

1s5ued undes 29 U.S C 657

sorion 1916 1890 alao issucd under 24

6 Section 1926.1101 1s amended by

revising paragraph (a) to read as follon's:

§ 1920.1101 Asbosios.

(q) Dates. (1) This standard shall

bucome aficetive Octobor 11, 199%.

(2) The provisioas of 30 CFK 1426.58

remain in atlace antil that sean us dates

ol the eccivalent pruvesions of lols

1a1s staidard coramelee: Die thee ofterlit

dare except as follows

(1) Methods of complance. The

enginpuring and word pireice controls

required by paragraph (e) uf dais sectius

shall be implemented by October 1.

(1) Mespiratory protection.

Kaspiratory protection required by

paragraph (h) of thos sector shall be

pruvided by Octobur 1. 1995.

(in) Hugene facilities and practices

for employees Hygience localines and

practices roquered by paragraph (p) of

thas section shall be provided by

Ocrobar 1, 1995.

(iv) Communicaton of hazords

Identiheation, nothication. labeling.and

sign posting, ald training required by

paragraph (k) of thus section shall be

provided by Oirober 1, 1995

(v) Housekeepsg Housekeeping

procuces and controis required hy

paragraph (1) of this section shall be

provided by Oclober 1. 1995.

(vi) Medical surveillance required by

paragraph (in) of this secrion shall be

provided by Outuber 1, 1495

(vo) The designation and trathing of

competent persons required hy

IFR Doc. 95-15990 Fill 6-27-95. 8.45 am)

BILLING CODE 4610-774-00

DFPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

34 CFR Part 685

AIN 1640--ACOS

Willlam D. Ford Federal Direct Loan

Program

AGENCY: Department col Education.

ACTION: Final regulars 888s

SUMMARY: The Secretary amends the

regulations governing the Walliam D.

Ford Fedoral Dircet Loan Program to

add the Office of Management and

Budget (OMb) contrul number to cortain

sochions of the regulations Those

sections contain intormation colluctun

requiloments appruved by OMB The

Secretary tales this action to inform tha

puthe that these sequireneuts have

been approved, and therefore alfected

parties muse comply with them.

EFFECTIVE DATE: Inturination collection

requirements in the tinal regulauons are

effectivo on July 1, 199u.

FOR FURTHER INFONMATION CONTACT:

Rachel Edelse, Policy Declopment

Division, Olfice uf Postsecondary

Education. US Departmertut

Education foolnde pendraidAronut.

51S. (K00618 Kills- Rélts-3). Wastingion,

DC:. 10201-1100. Triop lone (202) 209-

y105 Individuals sofied lois as

idlecommuscanons detice for the deaf

(TDD) may coll the Federal laforsation

Kelay Service TrikS; a1 1-000-877-4139

berween 8 a.m, ane ô pm Esslera limo.

Monday through Friday

SUPPLEMENTAHY INFORMATION: Final

regulations for the Willian D Furd

Fedoral Direct Loan Proyram were

published on December 1, 1994 (59 FR

f1604). Complauce sail intormanen

collection regenerats in these

regulation; was delayed unul those

requirements were approred by Oll

under the Papervurt Reduction Act o!

1980 OMB approved the information

collection requirements on Ducrilies7.

19194. Those re puresents will therefute

bocome effective. with the other

provesions of the resolations on luly 1.

Waver of Proposed Kulemaking

It is the pracuice ut the Storetary lo

ofier inturested parties lie opportunity

to commont on pruposed regulatons

Ruwever. the publication of.OMB

control numbers is purely lochnical and

dues not establish substantive policy.

Therefore, the Sectotary has determined

under 5 U.s.C. 553(b)(B), that public

comment on the regulations is

unnecessary and contrary to the public

interest.

List of Sulyects in 34 CFR Pan 645

Adininistrative practice and

procedure. Colleges and univarilliot,

Education, Loan prograins-education.

Reporting and recordkeeping

requirements, Student aid. Vocatonal

education

Duled. June 23. 1995.

Dawl A, Longenecker.

Meistant Scriary fur Posierundury

Education.

The Secretary amends Part 605 of

Title 34 of the Code uf Federal

Reguladone as follows:

PART 685 WILLIAM D. FORD

FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM

1. The authorily citation for par 685

continues lo road as follows:

Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087e es seq. unless

utherwose notd.

2. Sections 685 204, 685.206, 685.209,

685.213. 685.217, 685.215, 605.301.

685.302. 685.303. 685.309, and 685.401

ite amended by adding the OMB control

number following the sectus in read as

follows:

(Appioved by use Office ul Management and

Dualget under carted nutter 1880-06i2)

IFK De: 95-15849Flled 6-20.4 is 18unl

BALLING CODE 400004-5

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW

BOAAD

36 CFR Chapter XIV

Guidanco on Interpreting and

implemenung the President John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

AGENCY: Assassination Rocord: Review

Board

ACTION: Fisal regulations.

SUMMARY: These final interpretive

regulations previde guidance on the

interpretation of certain terms included

in the Presidoat John F Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act oi

1992 and on amplementation of drain

of the stature's provisions The tinal

Interpretive regulations more effectve

the propused interpretive regularions

previously published by the

Assassinauor Recurds Revier Board

(Koviow Board) The Revies Bord

revised the promused interprotice

---

## Page 60

AAND

33346 Federal Register / Vol. GO. No. 124 / Wednesdas, June 28, 1995 / Rules and Regulations

regulauuns efter considering public

comment received in writing and

turough testimony al public hearings

convenod by the Review Board

EFFCCTIVE DATE: Thoso interpretativo

regulationg oo olloctive June 28, 1945.

FOR FUATHEN IN OHMATION CONTACT:

T Joromy Gunn, Acung Ceneral

Counsel, Assassination Records Revier

Board, 600 E Streor, N.W., 2ud Floor,

Washington, D.C. 20530, (202) 724-

0UB8. fax (202) 724-0457.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Background and Statutory Authority

The Presidunt John F. Kennedy

Assassination Rocords Collectsun Act of

1992, 44 U.S.C. 2107 (as amended) lIFk

Act), ostablished the President John F.

Kennedy Assassination Kecurds

Colloction UFK Assassination Records

Collection) of the National Archives and

Kecords Administration (NARA). In

octablishing a process fur public

disclosure of all records rolating to lia

assassination, Congress finaler an

independent Federal agancy. the

Assassination Records Kavier® Board.

that consists of live citizens appointed

by tho President and confirmed by the

Sonale in 1994 Under the JFK Act, the

Keview Board is unpowered to decide

"whether a record consitulos an

assassination ricord " 44 U S.C

2107.7(0(4J(A). Congress intended that

she Review Board "Issue guidance lo

assist in aniculating the scope or

universe of assassination secords."

President folinf Kennedy

Ascass1060n Records Collection Actof

1992, S. Rep. 102-320. 102d Cong. 21

5056. 11992) at 21. These Anal

interpretive regulations, a proposed

version of which wore published al ou

FR 7506-7508 (Feb. d, 1905), comply

with that mandate.

The Review Board's goul in issuing

els guidance is to implement

cungressional intent that the JFK

Cullection contain "the most

comprehonsive disclosure ut records

rolated to the assassinauon of Presidant

Kennedy " S. Kep 102-328. supra at 18.

The Bourd is also mindful of Cungress's

instruction that the board apply i

"broad and encompassin" working

Jetinition of "assassination racord"

urder to achiove the gual uf assembling

the fullest historical record on this

tragic event in American history and on

the investigations that were undertaken

in the assassination's allermath. The

Board recognizas that any agencies

began to urgunize and review records

responsive lo the JFk Act even belore

the board was appointed and began its

work. Nevertheless. the Board's on is

that this guidance will aid in the

ulumate assembly and puble disclosure

ut the fullest possible histonel record

on this tregedy and un subsequent

investigations and in gueries into it.

The hnal interpretive regulations ale

intended lo idenufy comprehensevely

The range of records reasunably related

to the assassination of President

Kennedy and intestgations undertaken

an its aftermath. The final interpretives

regulations are also intended to aid in

the consistent, ellective, and efficient

implementation of the IFK Act and lo

establish procedures for including

assassination records in the JFK

Assassination Kocords Collection

established by Congress and housed al

NARA's incilty in College Park.

offices on December 14, 1994, froin

representatives ol NARA on the

question of including artilacts in the

scope of the term "assassination

record." After publication of the

proposed interpretive gulalions and

bufore expiration of the comment

period, the Revew Board heard

• lestimony at a public hearng on March

7. 1995, from the fal and from several

individuals and representalives of

private organizations on their views

regarding the text of the proposed

interpretive regulations. Coples of all

written comments received and

transcripts of public testimony on tho

proposed interprotive regulations merc

placed in the public reading room at uc

Noview Board's afficos and made

available for inspuction and copying by

Nolace and Comment I'recess

The Keview Board sought public

comment un lis proposed interpretive

regularous and selà theny day perivel.

shich ended on March 10. 1995, for the

purpose of receiving wrotten comments.

The Koview board also heard lestimory

at public hearings on sipoels ol the

proposed interpreure regulations. In

addition, the Revier Board sent copies

of the proposed interpretive regulations

to agchces kuwn to have an interest in

and lu be allected ly the Keview Board's

work, particularly thoso that either

created or now hold assassination

records, and to the approttale oversight

commitlees in Congress. The Kuview

Board also sent notices ut the proposed

interpretive rogulations and request fur

communes to many urganizations and

individuals who have destion bated an

interest in the release of matorials under

the JFK Act us who have engaged in

restarch into the assassinalion of

the public upon roquest.

At a public meeting held un May 3.

1995, for which notice was timely

published in the Federal Register

pursuast to the provisiuns of the

Goverment in the Swishine Act, the

Revsew Boaid cursidered i final druh of

these interpretive regulations Thul

discussion draft tacorporated many of

the comments received by the Keview

Buard on the proposad interpretive:

regulalions. The Review Board

unanimously voted to adopt the less uf

the discussion draft as its final

interprolivo regulations. Tha approved

lext is, warb a lew minur cortections that

do not chango the substance, published

here.

Response to Comments

The Keview Board found vory helpful

the thoughtiul and, in many cases, very

detailed cominonts submitted on tir

proposed interpretive regulations

Nuurly all of the commentators

The Keview Board received written

expressed suppor for what they

comments on the proposed interpretive

characterized as the proposod

regulations from four Federal agoncies.

three state and lual government

entities, and Iwenty-one private

individuals and organizations with an

interest in the Review Board's work.

Federal agencies providing stillen

comments include the Federal Bureau ot

Investigation (fBl), the Central

Intelligonce Agency (CIA). NARA, and

the Deparment of Stale Siate or local

government entites providing writter

comments include the Dallas (fexas)

County Commissioner's Court, dia

Dallas County Historcal Foundation,

and the Caly of Dalla, Recurds

Monagement Division of the Olfice of

the City Secrorary

Prior to publication of the proposed

interpretive regulations. the Kerien

Board heard testimony at a public

hearing beld at she kaview linard's

comprehensiveness and lexibility. All

comments subrated were caretully

studied and considerod by the Review

Board Submitters made both

substantive and lechnical suggestions.

many of which were incotporaled into

the interpretive regulations as issued

here in final forn.

The summary below

includes the principal substantive

comments received and the Review

Board's rasponses theret.

Comment. The proposed language of

$ 1(a) 1(a) un unduly restrictive because

the phrase "may havo led to the

assassination" requires at least a

potential causal link to the

assassination Moreover, determining

whelher there is a causal lunk sould

require the Review Board lo Eraluate the

validiy ofcompeting accounts of what

---

## Page 61

did dad to 111410008

AnAN

Federal Register / Vol. 60. No. 121 / Wednesdav. June 28, 1995 / Rulos and Regulations

33317

lod tu the assascination of Prosident

Kounody

Respinse A nunber of commentators

pur forward criticisins along these lines.

Some uf these commentalars suggested

that some form of a "reasonably related"

stondard bo cubsululud for the

have led to" language, while others

susgesied alternative lormulations (eg.

"that may shed light on the

assassination"). In adopting and

eventually applying a "reasonably

related" standard, the Roview Board

does not seok to endorse or reject any

particular theory of the assassination of

President Kennedy, although such

theories may inform the Keview Board's

search for records roasonably related to

the assassination and investigations into

il. The Keview Board believes thet

§ 1400.1(a). as now wordud, advances

Cat effort and will promote a consistent

broad interprefatiun and

inplencutation of the jFk Ac.

Conment: The proposed language of

5 1400.1(a) is tuo broad and opon ended.

A moro specific nexus to tho

assassination of Prosidont Konnedy

should bu required.

Response. As lis leat and legislative

history make clear, the JFK Act

contemplates that the Review Board

extond ile search for relevant records

bayond what has been compilud o:

rovowad by previous investgatious ll

is anuvitoble, thorefore. that the Review

Board must exercise judgment in

deteruning whather such records

constitute: "assassination focords." The

Keview Board regarde its "casonably

related" standard as sullicient to casure

that agencies are not overburdened with

Identifying and reviewing recurds that,

if added to the JFK Assassinatione

Kecords Collection, wuuld not advance

tho purposes of the JFk Arr

Comment Secuon 1400 & should

specifically include as assassination

rocurds any records pertaining lo

panicularly dentified individuals.

Response: The Review Board

doternined that, in almost every cast.

the types uf records commentators

sought to odd were already adiquately

covered by $ 1400.l as proposed

Accordingly, the Review Doard declined

to include rucords or record groups al

the luvol of specilicity urged by thist

commantators beause doing.omght

limit the scage of the Inter pictive

regulations as applied mitially by other

agencles. or orbenvise miphe prove

duplicative or confusing Howaver, the

Kevier Board welrome; and encourages

suggestions frun the public is lo

specile record, or securd groups that

may constilute assass nation records,

and intends to pursue such leads.

including those provided an the written

communis lo the proposid interprelve

Comment: Section 1400 2(a) is vague

and overly broad in deserbing the scupe

of additional records and lafonualun

Hesponse The Revon buard lads

auded language to clarify thai tie

purpose of requesting sidiuonal recurds

and information under § 1400.2(a) is 10

identify, evaluate, or interpret

assassination records, ucluding

assassination records that may nol

initially have been identifiod as such by

an agency The Keview Hoard also has

addod languago to indicate that it

inleads lu implement this soction

through written requests signed by lis

Executive Director. The Review Board

contenplates that, with rogard to such

requests, dis staff will work closely with

entities to which such requests are

addrossod to implement the lFk Act

viloctivoly and efficiently.

Comment. The scope of additional

rocords and information shuuld

specifically include recordi und

inlunnation andividuals and

corporallons that pussess such material

ovan if not obtained from sourcus

identified in paragraphs (a) through (o)

thereuf, and should spocifically include

individualo and corporations that

cuntraciod to provide goods or services

Response: The Revow Board has

added paragrapl (D) to this secuon in

response to thuto comments. The

Review board has concluded that, in

viaw of paragraph (0, specifically

aduntilying goverment contractors or

other private persons would be

unnecessary and rodundant.

Comment. NARA contended has .

5 1400.4 should not include artifacts

among the types of materials included

in the term *"record " Treating artilacts

as "records" would be contrary lo

NARA's accustomed practice and tha

usago ul the lenn "rocords" in other

deas ol Federal records law and would

result in substantial practical

-describe agencies' methods of

searching for records:

doscribe reclassification, transfor.

destruction, or uther disposition of

-do not constitute assassination

records, but have the potential lu

enhance, enrich, and braden the

histurical record of the assassination.

Response. To the eatent that the

inclusion of rocords and information of

the sypor doscribed would assist thi

Review Board in meeting its

respunsitilities under the |Fk Act, the

Review Bourd has adopled the suggested

Comment. The scope of

"assession records" under $ 1400 1

and "additional records and

information" under $ 1400.2 should nol

extend to state and local guvummuni or

lo private records that are not in the

pussession of the Federal guvernment.

Response The Kewew Board

considered such comments caretulli.

but concluded that the lerms of the JFK

Act preclude the narrower reading of

Uie Keview Buard': responsibillies

urged by such comments. Sechon

1400.G allows the Review Board, in 1ls

discretion. to accept cupies in lieu of

origanado The Resres Board believes

that this lexibility addresses the

concerns of some commentalors about

the remuval uf original reurds already

housed. for chimple. in date or local

archives

Comment: Sockon 1400.3 should

include as sources of assassination

records and additions records and

Hesponse: The Review Board has

carofully considered NARA's objections

to the inclusion of artifacts as "records."

but decided chat this inclusion is

necessary to achievo the purposes of the

JFK Arl. The Revew Board notes that

artifacts that bocamo exhibits to the

proceedings of the Warreu Connussion

have long been in the custody ui NAKA.

and decided that thoso artifacts should

remain in the JFK Assassination Resorali

Collection. The Revicw Hoard further

huleros that the unique issues ol public

trust and credibility uf goverument

prucesses that prompted enactment of

the JFK Act require that arufacts be

included within the JFK Assassination

Records Collection. Tho strong support

that commenting members of the publis

gave to this position reintorces this

conclusion. Tho Koview Board included

an its proposed regulations, and retained

88 g 1400.7(b)-(c) of tho final

interpretive regulatons. lauguage

intended to addiess NARA's concurns

about potential copying requiremen

and preservation issues unnue 10

artifacts.

Comment: Section 1400.5 should be

mudilied lo allow agencies to withhold

from the JFK Assassination Record:

. Collection material that is not related to

the assassination of President Kennedy.

oven though at appoars in a record that

cuntains other material that is relalod lo

the ussessination of President Kennedy.

Response: ll rumains the intent of this

coction in matie: cloar lu agencies that, in

a rule, entire records, and not parts

thereal, are to becono part of the jFk

Assassinalion Records Collection. The

purpose of requiring that records be

produced in their entirnly is in ansares

411104

---

## Page 62

14-00000

AARU

33348 Federal Register / Vol. 60, No. 124 / Wednesday, Juhe 28, 1995 / Kules and Regulations

that the contox and integnly of the

records bo proserved. Ondy in rare

anstancos will the Koviow Board assent

du withbolding particular information

within an assassination rocord on the

ground that such infurmation le not

rolovant to the assassinatiou. Secton

1400.S has been modified to clarity that,

although the Review Board may allow

this practice in extraordinary

circunstancos, this determination is

within the sole direction of tho Review

Board.

Comment: Tho discussion of originals

and copies in § 1400.6 is, in vorious

respocts, uncloar and confusing

Response: The Roview Board made

extonsive changos to thie saction to

address thase concems and lo achieve

greater internal consistency. The Review

Board's intent in this section is to

expross its strong preference for

including original records in tho JFK

Assassination Records Cullection, bul

also its understanding that. for a vorioty

of reasons, thore may be situations

whera a copy instead of the original of

tun assassination record may be mure

appropnate for inclusion in the

Collection.

Comment: Section 1400.6 should to

clariñed as to whether "record copies"

of Fodoral agency may be included in

the JFK Assassination Records

Collection.

Hesponse: The Keview Board has

modified § 1-400.6(a)(1) to clarity that

the Koview board may dolerinine theat

rucord copies may be included in the

Colletion.

Conment: The Caralog of

Assassination Racords (COAR)

described in § 1400 # should consist of.

or be replaced by, the database and

landing aide prepared by the Federal

agencies in possession of assassinaton

Response This and other comments

niceived regarding the pruposed

5 1400.8 indicated sonia confusion as tu

the intent and separation of the

mochanisin establishud in this section

For this reason, the Ruview Board

docided to replace tho terin "Calalog ul

Assassination Kecords" with the terin

"Nutice of Assissination Record

Determinalion" (NAKD), and to redrall

this section lu clarily the Roviow

Board's intant to use the NARD

mechanism simply to document tha

Review Board's ongoing determinations

that, in additon to records explicitly

chumoraled in the JFK Art as

assassinistlon records leg. Iccords

reviewed by the HSCA) or identified hy

Federal agencies in their own searches.

contain other records also are

assassination recurds to be included in

the JFK Assassination Records

Colluctiun.

Section by Section Analysis

Scope of Assossination Recora

As discussed above with rugard to the

public comments, subparagraph (a) of

§ 1400.1 bas boon muditied to aduul a

"reasonably rolated" standard and the

term "Catalog of Assassination Records**

bas been replaced with "Notice of

Assassination Record Determination" in

subparagraph (b)(3) The final

interpretive regulations also incorporale

suggestod technical changes. including

edits for clarification and revision of

this section's title lo make it inore

precise.

Scope of Additional Records and

Information

The title of § 1400. 2 was revised lo

conform do the new title ul § 1400.1.

Additional odicing chongos were made

for clanty A new subpert (G) was added

lu subparagraph (o) and a now

subparograph (1) was added after

considerauon of conments that noted

this potenuel exclusion of certain

categones from the scope of this section

in the proposed interprelive regulations.

The Review Board has added language

in the final interpretive regulations in

clarify that the purpose of this secton

is to aid in identifying. evaluating or

Interproting assassination records,

including assassination records that

may not initially have been adlenniesel

by an aguncy. The Keview Buerd also

has added language to sugarst that it

intends lo implement this section

through watten requests signed by the

Roview Board's Exocutive Director.

Sources of Assassination Aecords and

Additional Records und Informanon

A now subparagraph (g) was added lo

$ 1400.3 aller consideration of

corninents noting the potential

exclusion of records created by

individuals or corporations ur obtained

from sources other than shose already

identified in the previous

subparagrapbs

Types of Moterials Ineluded in Scope of

Assassination Record and Additional

lecords und Information

No substantive change has been made

10 91400.4 as it appeared in lie

proposed interpretive regulations

He quirement That Assassination

Hecords be Helcased in Their Entirely

Language bas huen addad 1o § 1400.5

lo permit the Revies Board, in ils sole

discrehun, lu allom release ut only part

uf an assassination record where such

partial reloas is sullicient to comply

with the intent and purposes of dis JFK

Act.

Originals and Copies.

Extensive changes dare inade lo

$ 1400.6 for reasons of clarity and

intemal consislency. The Review Board

also incorporated in the final

interpretive regulations languago

clarilying that "record coples" of

Federal agency records may be included

in the JFK Assassination Kecords

Collectiun and addressing the important

issue of preservallon requirements. In

this respoct, the Keview Hoard sought lo

treat records in various media in a

means appropriate to the unique

characteristics of each medium.

In the light of comments received, the

Review Board extensively revised

§ 1400.%. Subparagraph (d), as ir

appeared in the proposed interpretive

regulations, has boen broken into tires

subparagraphs new subparagraphs (d).

(e). and (1) 0 avold porontial confusion

and to add clanty. The intent of these

subparagraphs is to mako clear that all

files on an individual. event,

urganization or activity are to be made

available to the Reviow Board regardless

of the labals on the files, where the

records may be found. or whether they

rellect the true name or identifier uf the

individual. event osganization. or

Subparagraphs (b) and (c) $ 1400.7

were included in the proposud

interpretive regulationg and rotained in

to final interpretive rogulations in

under to adress concerns uxpressed by

NARA regarding the inclusion of

arlifacts in the scope of the material

deemed "assassination rerords." By

including these subparagraphs. the

Review Board wishes to make it clar

that it believes the JFK Actestablishes

unique standarde a6 to the records to be

included in the JIT Assassinaton

Kecoros Collection. By including

artilacis as a typo of "assassination

record," the Raviow Board secks lu

fulfill is mandate from Congress lu

assemble all materials reasonably

related to the assassination in the JFK

Assassination Records Collection. It is

not intanded that the inclusion here of

artiface for purposes of implementing

the JFK Act should be construed 1o

affect the implementation oluther

rAcords laws. Subparagraph (r) is

anlended to ensure that all artifacts in

the collection are preserved for posterily

and that public access be provided lo

those artilacis in a manner consistent

with their prucervation. The Review

Board encourages NARA to set out in

writing the terrun and conditions under

102z. 2m.9

---

## Page 63

14-00000

01.95 THL 11.50 FAN SU 741 0157

ANKB

10006

Federal Register / Vol. GO, No. 124 / Wednesday, Juno 28. 1995 / Rules and Regulations 33349

• which access to such matenals shall he

allowel.

Implementing the JFK Ac- Nolice of

Assassination Hecords Defernunation

The Keview Board has replaced the

torn "Catalo; of Assassination Kecords"

that appeared in the proposed.

interprenve mgulations and redrafted

§ 1400.810 clarify the Renew Board's

. Intont. In the final interprative

regulations, the Keviow Hoard

substitutes the term NAKD for prior

referoncos io a "catolog."

Paperwork Reduction Act Statement.

The regulamon is not subject to the

provisions of the Paperwork Reduction

Act of 1900(41 U.S.C. 0501 et seg.)

locause ll dous to contain any

in fornaton cullectun requirements.

within the meaning of 4* U.S.C..

Regulatory Floarthly Act Carthcation

As required by the Regulalory

Fleribility Act of 1980 (RFA), § U.S.C.

601-G12). the Boned corefies that this

rule, aladopied, will not have is

significant economic impact on a

substanual number of small onutes and

that, thoreforo, a ragulatory fusibility

analysis need not be prepared. & U.S.C.

60S(b). The proposod rule would not

im pesse any ubligations, including any

obligations on "small entities,"

fonh In SUSC 601(3) of the

Regulatory Flexibilty Act. or within the

dofinition of "small businoss." as fourd

in 15 USC: 672, or within the Smili

Business 507e Standards in regulatious

issued by the Small Dusiness

Administration and codified in 13 CFR

part 121.

Heview by OM11

This regulation has toon reviewed by

OMB under Executer Order 1286ti.

List of Subjects on 30 CFR Part 1400

Administrative practice and

proceduro, Arteros and records

Arcordingle, ile review Board luriby

escalolishes a neir chapier KIV i title se

oftho Cude of Federal Regulstions 10

read as follow.

CHAPTER XIV-ASSASSINATION

RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

PAAT 1400 GUIDANCE FOR.

INTERPRETATION AND

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE

PRESIDENT JOMN F. KENNEDY.

ASSASSINATION RECORDS

COLLECTION ACT OF 1992 (JFK ACT)

See.

1400.1 Scope Ol assussinalion record

1400.2

Scope of additional records and

Sources of assassination records and

adduonal records and Information.

1400.4 Types of materlals Included lo scope

of assasslantian record and additonal

recorda and Infornation.

1400.5 Requirement batessessination.

records be released in thele cnurely..

1400.7 Additional guidauce.

1400.8 Implemenung the JFk Acl Nolice

Di Assassination Hecord Designation

§1400.1 Scopo of assisilnuuon rocord.i

(e) An assussinution record encludes.

but is not limited lo, all secords, public

and private. regardless of how labeled or

idontified, that dunnent. describe.

report on, analyze or interpret activities,

persons, or events reasurably related lo

the assassination of President John F

Kennedy and investigations of or

inquiries into the assassination.

(b) An assassination recold lurther

includes, without linlaliou:

(1) All records is definud in Section

12) All secords cullectou by or

segregated by all Federal, solo, and

leral government agencios in

conjunction with any investigation or

andlysis of or inquiry into the

assassination of 'resident Kennedy (fur

example. any intra-agency investigaton

ur analysis of or inquny unte the

assassination, any intolagency

cummunication regarding lit

assassination, any request by die House

Soluct Committee on Assassinations lu

collect documents and other materials:

or any inter or intra agency collection

or segregation uf documents and uther

(31 Other records or groups ol rocords

listed in the Notico of Assassination

Kecord Designation, as described in

§ 1400.8 of this chapter.

§ 1400.2 Scope of additional records and

Thu turn additional recurds and

injorination mcludes

1a) All documents used by

guterument offices and agencies during

their declassification rever uf

assassination records as well as all other

documents, indices. and other material

(including but not limitod to those that

disclose cryptonyms, code names, or

othor.identillers that appear.in.

assassination records) that the

Absossination Racords Keview Hoard

(Keview Board) has a masonable basis lo

believe may constitute an essassination

record or would assist in the

identibcation, evaluauon or

interpretauon of an assassination.

record. The Keview Board will identify

in writing those records and othur

materials it intends lo seet undur this

(b) All waining manuals. instructional

materials, and guidelines created or

used by the agencive in furthoranco of

that sovlow of assassination rocords.

(c) All rocords, lists; and documenis.

descriking the procedure by which tho

agencies ideutifiud or soloctod

octossination records for reviow.

(d) Organizational charts of.

(•) Records necessary and sufficient to

(1) Records policies and schedules:

2) Filing systems anu urganization

3) Storage facilites and locatons

(4) Indexung symbols, marks, codes.

instructions, guidelines, mothode. and

(5) Seach mothods and procedures

usod in the porformanco of the agencles®

duties under the JFK Acl: and

(6) Reclassification to a higher level,

transfer, destruction, or other

information (eg, theft) rugarding the

status of assassinaon records.

(1) Any other record that does not fall

within the scope of assassination record

as duscribed an § 1400 1. bur which has

the potential to enhance, enrich, and

broaden the historical record of the

assassination.

Sourcos of posass nution records

and additional recorda and informolon.

Assassination records and addional

records and infonuation may be localed

al, ur under the control uf. without

(a) Agencios, oificos, and untirios of

the executing. legislative. and judicial

branchos of the Federal Goverunent:

(b) Agencies, offices, and entities of

the executive, legislative, and judicial

branches of state and local govumments:

(0) Recurd repustones and arclives of

Fadoral, Gram, and local governments.

including presidential libraries:

(d) Record repusitories and archives

of universities. hbrares, hastorical

socialias, and other similar

organizalions.

(c) Individuals who possess such

recuids by virtue of service with a

government agency, office. or chlity:

(1) Persons. including individuals and

corporations, who have obtained such

---

## Page 64

4007

12 21 95 TH 11.51 FAX 208 724 0157

AKKB

33350 Federal Kegister / Vul. 60, No. 124 / Wednesday, June 38. 1995 / Kules and Regulations

records from sources identifled it

paragraphe (a) through (o) of this

(g) Persons, Including individuals and

corporations, who have themsolves

created or bave obtained such recurds

from sources other than thuse icontified

in paragrapas (a) through (u) of this

(h) Foderal, state, and local courts

where such records are being held

.. (i) Fureign govemments.

$1400.$ Types of mazerlais included in

#cops of art balnation record and

additional records and informaton.

The lerm record in assassination

record and udditional records and

information includes, for purposus of

interpreting and implementing the JFK

(a) papors, maps, and other

documontary material:

(b) photographs:

(e) motion pictures;

(d) suund and viduo recordings:

(e) machine readable information in

§14105 Requiremont that assassination

focords ba relaised in their entroly.

An assassination rocord shall be

released in is entroly except fur

portions specifically postponed

pursuant to the grounds for

postponement ol public disclosure di

rocords established in § 2107.6 of the

JFK Act, and no portion of any

assassination record shal! be withheld

from public disclosure solaly on

frounds of non-relevance unless, in the

Kevow Buard's sole discretion. mlaase

of pert ul a record is sulficient in

comply wich the intent and purposes of

51400.6 Originals and coples

(a) For purposes of deterning

whether originals or copies of

assassination records will be made part

of the President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection JFK

Assassination Records Collection)

established under the JFK Act. the

(1) In the case of papers, maps. and

other documentary materials. the

Revow Board may deletinine that

rucord copies ol governinent records.

either the signed original, originnl

production or a repruduction that has

been teated as the official record

inalniained to chronicle goverment

functions or activities, may to placed in

tho IFK Assassination Keroeris

Collection:

(2) In the: caso of other papers, maps,

and other documentary marenal. ind

Kenew Board may dunnine that a true

copies of any assassintion records

and accurate copy of a record in lieu of

containod in the JFK Assassination

the original may be placed in the JFX

Records Collection are not also

Assassination Keronis Collection;

assassination records that, at the Keview

(3) In the case of photgraphs, the

Board's discretion, may also be placed

original nogative, whenever available

in the IrK Assassination Records

(otherwiso, the Aarliest generation print

Collection.

(bat is a true and accurate copy), may be

(1) Nothing un this section shall be

placed in the JFK Assassination Rocords

interpreted to prevent or to proclude

copies ul any electronic assassination

(4) In the casA of motion pictures, tho

camera onginal. whenever aveilable

(othorwise, the earliest generation print

tbat is a true and accurate copy), may be

placed in the JFK Assassination Records

Collertion;

(5) In the case of sound and viduo

rocordinge, the original recording.

whenever available (otherwise, the

earliest generation copy that le a true

and accurate copy), may bu placed in

the JFK Assassination Records

(6) In the case of machine-roodable

iniormation. a trus and accurale copy of

the orignal (duplicating all Intornation

contained in the original and in a tormat

that permits retrieval of the

information). may be placod in the JFK

Ascussination Records Colloction, and

(7) In the case of artifaces, the original

objects themselves may be placod in the

JFK Assassination Racords Colloction.

(b) To the extent records from foreign

goverments are included in the JFK

Assassination Records Collection.

copias of the onginal records shall be

sufficient for inclusion in the collection.

(C) In cases where a copy, as dolined

in paragrapb (a) uf this section, is

authorized by the Revew Board to be

mcluded un the JFk Assassination

Rocords Collection, tha Review Board

may require thai a copy he ceruñod il.

1 is discrution. it dellosmines a

certificauon to te necessary to ensure

the integrity of the JFK Assassination

Kecords Collertion. In Cases where on

original, as defined in paragraph (a) of

this section, Is required for inclucion in

thA JFK Assassination Kecurds

Collection, the Review Board may, at ils

discretion, accupt the bact available

copy. In such cases that records

included in the JFk Assassination

Records Collection, whether originals or

copies, contain illegible portions, such

records shall have attached thereto a

cortified transcription of the illegible

language to the extent practiable.

(d) For purposus of implementing the

JFK Ad, the lurn copy nisans a true end

accurate photocupy duplication by i

means appropriate to the medium of the

original racord that preserves and

displays the integrity of the record and

the informution contained in al.

(r) Nothing in this sectoon shall io

Inesp:olud 1o suggust thal adultional

• records from boing refunnatted

electrunically in ordor to conforin to

dilferent handward and/ur softwaro

ruquirement of audiovisual or machine

readable formats if such is te

professional judginent of the National

Archives and Records Administration.

§1400.7 Additional guldance.

(a) A government agency, office. or

entity includes, for purposes of

interproting and implementing the JFK

Act, all currant, fast, and fonner

dopartments, agencios, offices.

divisions, foreiga offices, buraus, and

doliberative bodies uf any Federal, state.

or local guvernment and includes all .

inter- or intra-agency working groups.

committees, and meetings that possess

or created rocurds relating to the

assassination uf Prosident John F.

Kennedy.

(u) The inclusion of arifacts in the

scupe of the term assassination rocord is

understood to apply solely to tho JFK

Assassination Records Collection and to

Implenest fully the torms of the JFK

Act and has no direct or indirect bearing

on the interpretation or implementation

of any othor statute or regulation.

(c) Whenover ariacts are included in

the JFK Assassinalion Records

Collecton, it shall be sufficiont to

comply with the JFK Act if the public

is providod accois lu photographs.

drawings, or similar materials depicting

the artifacts. Auditional display of or

examination by lie public of aritfaces in

the I'K Assassination Records

Collection shall deur under the terms

and conditions ustablished by the

National Archives and Rocords

Adminisuration to ensure their

preservation and protaction (or

(d) Tho tonus and. or. any, all, and the

plural and singular forms of nouns shall

be understoud in their.broadest and

anust inclusive sonse and shall not be

understood to be tenus of limitation.

(e) Unless the Keview Board in its sole

discretion directs otherwise, records

that are sduntified with respect lu a

paracular person shall include all

records ralating lu that person that use

ur :oflect the true name ur any uther

nanne, proudonym, codeword, symbol

number, cryptonyno, or alias Used to

identify that person

---

## Page 65

- 1

Ale 11.ad kAl ili iät Utoi

ANND

Federal Register / Vol. 60, No. 124 / Nodnesday, June 28, 1995 / Rules and Regulations

33351

(1) Unless the Keview Board in its sole

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

discretion directs otherwise, records

Need for Correction

that are identitied by the Review Board

with respact to a particular operation or

As published, the final rule contains

program shall include all recurds.

one error which may prove to be

pertaining lo that programs by any olier

misleading and as in neud of cortection.

name, psaudonym, codowurd, symbol.

Correction ul Publicalion

number. or cryptonym

Accordingly, the publication on

implementing the JFK Act

Friday, April 7, 1995 (00 FR 17639) ol

Nolice of Assassination Record

the final regulation. FR Doc. У5-8544.

for National Capital Region, is corrected

a mutice of proposed rulemaking (NPR)

for the State of Maine. The NPR

proposed extending the attainment

deadline for ozono for Hancock and

(Valdo Countes, and usted for public

comment. No cummeuls were received.

CAA Requirements and ElA Actions

Concerning Designation and

Classification

Section 107(d)(+) of the Clean Air Act

as amended in 1990 (CAA) required the

(1) A Notice of Assassination Record

Designation (NARD) shall be the

mechanism for the Review Board to

announce publicly its determination

that i record or group of records neuts

the definition of assassination recures

(U) Notice of all NARDs well be

published in the Federal Kegister

iwithin 3n days of the decision to

designate such racords as assassination

Steles and EPA to designate areas as

In the FR Dor. 05-4599, appearing on

page 17649 in the issue of Fridey, April

7. 1995. the words "the introductory

text of"' need lu be added afler the word

"revising" that appears in the firit

column, beginning on the ninth line,

which now reads "2. Section 7.90 is

amended by revising paragraph (k) (2) tu

-read as follows:" is corruciud 1o rend "2

Section 7.98 is amended by revising the

(c) In deternining loo designate surh

introductory lext of paragraph (lJ(2) 10

recurds as assassinatiun records, thie

real as follows:"

Keview board snuct dutormine that the

secord ur group of record will mure

likely than nut enhanco, eurch, and

broaded tar historical record ol the

attainment, nonallainment. or

unclassifiable for uzura is mnll as other

pollutants for which metronal ambient

alr quality standards (NAAQS) have

• been set. Section 181(a)(1/ (table 1)

requirud that ozone nonattainment arcas

be classified as marginal, moderale.

serious, sevete. or extreine. depending

on their air quality.

In a series of Federal Register notices.

FPA conopolused this primes br

designating and classifying all areas of

the country for ozone. See. cg. 56 Fk

50694 (Nov. G, 1991): 57 FR 56762 (Nut.

Rick Gale:.

Arung Chief, Hungar Araves Divesaon

IFK (4oc-95-15711 Foledi 21-95,89.45a180l

BILLING CODE 4310-70 F

30. 1992): 59 FR 189G7 (April 21, 1994)

Areas designaled nonallanent for

azone ar required to ruter allaument

dates speciled undor the Act For areas

Malad. June 22, 19915

Dawd C Marwell,

Enecuune Director Assussinalon Fincuris

Revew Buurd.

(FK Doc 45-15819 FileJ 6-27-45; 8 45 ain)

BLUING CODE ENID-M

classifiud marginal through uxtrera, tha

allainment dates range from November

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

15. 1993 through November 1a, 2010. A

AGENCY

discussion of the attainment dates is

found in 57 FR 13498 (April 16, 1992)

40 C-H Parts 52 and 88

(the General Pruamblo)

(A-Y-AL-5244-5)

The Hancock and Ialdu Counties.

Molnu area was designated

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

Cican Air Act Promulgation of

nonattainmont and classified naareinal

Extension of Attainment Date for

for ozone pursuant to S6 FK 58094 (Nov.

National Park Serice

Ozone Nonallenment Area; Maine

u, 1991). By this classification, its

attainment date became Notarnher 15.

36 CFR Part 7

AGENCY: Environmental Protection

1993

RIN 1024-AC1#

Agency (EPA).

CAA Keyuirements and EPA Actions

Concerning Meeting the Allainment

National Capital Region Parks; Speclal

SUMMARY: EPA Is extendulg the:

Regulations; Correction

allammond dale for the Hancoed and

AGENCY: National Pará Service, laterior.

baldo Countes. i marginal 0201g

ACTION: Correction to final regulatinis

nunattainment aica in Maine lo

Novembe: 15, 1994. This extensiun is

SUMMARY: Thee dacmull contams a

haied on part on montored air quality

romection lu the final regulations which

readitags for the nator ambont air

were published Friday, April 7. 1995

quality standard for ozone during 1993.

(G0 FR 17639). The roguloons linn thee:

Thic nonce also updales tables in du

sales un Federal park land lu bouks.

CFR 52.1027 and 40 CFR 01.320

newspapers, leaflets, pampulets, buttons

cuntenung allainment dates in the Stale

and bumper suckers and set standards

for siles, stands and structures used in

such sales within National Capitel

Rogion Porks.

EFFECTIVE DATE: May 8, 1995

FOA FURTHEN IN OHMATION CONIACI:

Sandra Alley, Associate Kegunal

Direcros. Puhlic Aflairs and Tourist.

National Capital Region, National Park

Service, 1100 Ohio Drive SIV

Washingion. D.C.(202)619-7233

EFFECTIVE DATE: This extension becomes

eflective July 28. 1995.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:

Richard P. Burkhar, Air. Pesticides and

Toues Managemen: Division. U.S.

Envirunmental Proicchion Agency.

RegIoN I. JFK Federal Uild, Boston, MA

02203. Phone. 617-565-327-4

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On Fub

22. 1045160 FK 9613). EPA published

SUCtiOn 181(b)(?)iA) roquests the

Administrator, within six months of the

altainment date, de dele roine sole ther

ozone: nonaltallment areas attained the

NAAQS FUrUZUNO, ElA delurmines

attainmont status on the basis of the

expected nunber of exceedances ol tie

NAAQS over the three jas period up

to. and including, the attainment date.

fee General Preamble, 57 FR 13506 In

the cases of ozone manginal

nonallornment arous, to three yoor

period is 1991-93. CrA section

181(U)(2)(A) further states tat, fur areas

classified as manginal, moderate. or

serivus. il the Administrator detennines

that the area did not altain the standard

by dis altammont date, the area must be

reclassified upwards

Howover. CAA section 181(al(5)

provides an exemption frum these bump

---

