“Rsi "LS SECRET FREE op ere ee
STAFF

CONF: C/LAB INFO: FILEs VRy DDO#4, C/CAw3, C/CCS, C/CI=4, C/CMS,

C/EPS/COMP, C/EPS/EG=2, C/OED/NOC@2, C/OG/DMS, C/PCS, C/PCS/CAC,

C/PCS/LSNy, C/PM, C/SIA, C/SIA/FL, DDO/DO, ICS, ODPD=Dy OLC, SA/DL/0,
(397P)

wee ee eee eet oo

78 0779628 PAGE 001 Z
Bi TOT: 312247Z MAY 76 DIRECTOR 231844

FO Cr ORO Ree Bee OOS ERS E SEES BEET TE OES OE ET EERE ST EEMOST OMAR EME OEE EORERENETEEEEe ||

“SECRET Che
STAFF 3122472 DIRECTOR 231604 qe

_ TOt IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY, oW

WNINTEL RYBAT

REFS2A*MEXICO CITY 45276 0778601
B. DIRECTOR 229921

1, INSTRUCTIONS PARA 3, REF By, CORRECT, HSCA IS NOT TO CONTACT/
OR INTERVIEW ANY CURRENT OR PAST AGENTS OR ASSETS, WE DID AGREE
WITH MR, CORNWELL THAT IF HE WISHED TO INTERVIEW ANY NON@OFFICTAL
COVER OFFICERS THAT WE WOULD ARRANGE SUCH INTERVIEWS IN THE
UNITED STATES AFTER HIS RETURN FROM MEXICO, WE ALSO AGREED. TO
ASSIST. IN. SO FAR AS POSSIBLE IN LOCATING AND ARRANGING INTERVIEWS
OF FORMER STAFF EMPLOYEES (FLICK, AND (ZAMBERNARDJ).

2-. MR, CORNWELL MIGHT BE CONFUSING NOC'S WITH AGENT ASSETSs Y
HOWEVER, THE DISTINCTION WAS EXPLAINED TO HIM AT HOS BY THE &
THREE STAFFERS MENTIONED REF A AND MR, SCOTT BRECKINRIDGE, FORMER a ar
DEPUTY IG, :WHO HAS BEEN DETAILED AS THE AGENCY FOCAL OFFICER TO
ASSIST THE HSCA BY. THE DOCI,

3. PRIOR TO MEXICO TRIP MR, CORNWELL SUBMITTED LIST OF NAMES
OF PERSONS HE WISHED TO INTERVIEW, TRACES RUN ON ALL
INDIVIDUALS AND CORNWELL THEN GIVEN LIST OF PERSONS WITH WHOM
THERE NO AGENCY RELATIONSHIP AND NO HGS OBJECTION TO HIS
INTERVIEWING, CORNWELL TOLD THAT FORMER AGENTS/ASSETS ON HIS
LIST wOULD.NOT REPEAT NOT BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR INTERVIEW,

4, COS CORRECT IN REFUSING TO ALLOW CORNWELL AND ASSOCIATES
TO INTERVIEW FORMER AGENTS OR ASSETS, é

Se NO FILE, E2, IMPDET.> z
ORIG? C/LA/STB (STURBITTS)? COORD: OLC CBRECKINRIDGE), SA/D0/0
(SHEPANEK), C/PCS (PAGE); DC/LA/N [___ AUTH? C/LA/MGSB
CHAWKINS)? REL: C/LA

SECRET

HE OFdES.


ie SECRET
STAFF

eeemew ee ec er ee ee tan ne Re ew ase nae Rene eRe C eRe ser ae ete nennewrerere wna elenaweneEeeeee

78 0779626 PAGE 002
TOT: 3122472 MAY 78 DIRECTOR 231644

LOMO EMER KRSM RCO e Meme,

(WARREN)? CL BY: 029163,

END OF MESSAGE SECRET

