# 104-10186-10121

## Page 1

104-10186-10121

MATHOIN

IN FOR NATO DEPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT Fernando FLESTES Coba

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

DATE DISTA.

NO. PAGES

CSCI-316/01238-64

2 October 1964

2

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

washington,

D. C.

DATE AÇODetOber

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DERINIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Conments

Tho following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addresses take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Fernando FUENTES Coba was a lieutenant in the Cuban Police

FOrgO TO FALSEJEIRAS, Chiel of Police.

worked in the Confidential Department under Connarder

Although source cannot

verify it, he heard

that FUENTES was discharged from the police

force because of problems relnting to drugs.

The last source

heard of FUENTES, he was working

in a printing establishment

in Halifax, Canada.

Source described FUENTES

five feet eight inches tall and 160 pounds. 1, 2,3,4,5,6, bout

Headquarters Comments

1. Included with a report dated 27 November 1959, was &

complete list of the personnel employed by the Departmento

Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical Department of Inresti-

as of 6 November 1959.

Included on the list

Sargeant Fernando FUENTES Cobas who worked in

the section responsible for foreign intelligence

operations

for the Policia Nacional Revolucionaria (National

Revolutionary Police - PNR).

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1 418

INSA

INKX

1 FBI 2

A la

ціро

STATE

! DIA

REP CINCLINT

_CINCSO ₫

(Nose, trela distical un indrested by "#".)

I NATT

MEC AMATION. REPO

RT

DH/S.VEO3: L' WE/S/3

2

CI/LA

CI/R$A

MEL/SAVE

SILSACL

381/12262

POSALS NIL/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA,

..355

INFORMATION REPORT

RID 1

jLX-1693 -•-

NO PROJECT (ALVUG 1)

-CSCI -316: 01223-64

1000A0 182+ 84 $

2/98

i We

61A1300$

900-965069

---

## Page 2

S F CR BT

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-J16/01228-64

= 2-

?. An untested source cave a representative of this Agency a copy of

a list of regulations

Issued on 15 Mny 1960 by the National

Revolutionary Police,

which came under the Ministry of the Revolu

ionary Armed Forcos of Cuba, for the disciplino of members of

che Servicio Secreto Revolucionario (Cuban Revolutionary Secret

Service - SSR•).

This docuncht was signed by Fernando FUENTE Coba,

Chief of the Confidential Soction of the General Command of the

National Revolutionary Police.

3.

In a report dated 19 May 1962, an untested source, who was a guide

and interpreter for the ICAP, & Cuban government agency which

1960 when he started working for the Tourist Polico, a part of.

January or February 1961, COBAS transferred to the

*. In & report dated 20 September 1962, an untested source reported

that Fernando FUENTES Covas was with the Policia Transita (Transit

Police, in the DI.

5.

Another office of this Agency, in a report dated 26 December 1962,

that Fernando FUENTES Coba, a Cuban national, had been

convicted in 1957 of violation of the United Statos immigration

FUENTES was engaged in forging birth certificates

Cuban nationals to enter the United States as Puorto Ricans.

FUENTES moved to Miami, where he became an ardent Castrista.

July 1959, he served as a provocateur in luring an American flyer,

Sained del PINO, to Cuba, ostensibly to smuggle socone out of

Because of his success in luring del PINO back to Cuba,

where he was badly wanted by the Castro regime, FUENTES received

an important position in the Confidential Bureau of the Cuban

Go?, and for a time served as chief of the Bureau.

6.

On 29 January 1963, & source whose reliability cannot be determined,

reported that he had seen

Fernando FUENTES Coba, described as a

agent, debark from the SS Shirley Lykes on 25 January 1963,

at Port Everglades.

7,1

reported on 25 February 1963, that

FerTITO FUENIES CODE WAS Dorn on

in Habana, Cuba.

FUENTES was a former permanent resident of the

21 June 1925'United States from

1946 to 1949, and served in the United States Army.

At the time of

this report FUENTES was described as a photographer with the

Tourist Commission in Habana®

in a report dated October

1963, reported that FUENTES was settled in Halifax, Canada, and

had obtained temporary employment.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

