# 104-10101-10014

## Page 1

104-10101-10014

3180F4

ti si

19. 16,

infine detron

DOP, il 2.

SAS

201

:A.

82744

LAH MAI DES LOD PICT SJAN MADR QUIT HIL RIOD BU

INDO CARA LAVI QUAT PALD SALY NONI

LATI ANTICA BETE

OOTORS IN SINITS ARRATTERE DAFO RELEAZABIE IO

1. CUBA: ABOUI 7,000 CENA SOLDIRES ARE NON ENALIE DI

"SPICIAL TRAFONS" COURTER, ACCORDINE TO DETENSE MINIATIR RAZI, CASTRO.

IL RATO THAT TI FRESCIZEL LIVOLVEA ARE "FORGER ATUNITE" UNO ILIS/ED

LAST SUMER LI RISPONE TO A ATTRAI IX FILAL CASTRO. IN ADDITION :O

SURPACI-TO AIR NIESILIS, THE "SERCIAL TRAPOES" PROBABLY TACIII

RIGATIUNE, PATAR, CRETRE HYPOTIES, ARE POSSIALE SAAPPEE ANTITAr3

H-SILES AND FEO TACTICAL MIASI.

2. BOLIVIA: //VICI PRESIDENT JUAN LIECHIN ESTURIES FROM RIS

AUBAEBADCRIAL FOST IN LUNE ON 10 HON AND INIEPIATELI AFOUICED

HE RAS ABOUT TO UNDERTAKE AN EITENSIVE THIP THROUGH THR INTRRIOF CP TEN

COUNTRY. THIS IS INTERPRETED BY THE GOYENNNNT AS THR CORMRICEMENT OF

A LICHIN CAMPAIEN ATMED AT DISTINO TEE PERINILI FRON PAZ ESTENSSORO

LECHIA, A CLEVER AND OPS RTUNISTIC POLITICIAN, IS CONSIDERED TO K:

PAZ MAIN RIVAL TOB THE LICUELT EATICHALISI N VOLTTIONARY MOVEREITE

di. ÜM9196

00416. #

i.i

cir basil

---

## Page 2

DANA ES

•EXT.

ON NANT

одето мо стАйт поу мю уні

дамас сита зара

I Start; "?

41z

FACiF. DIRECTOR

CONFEW

• Sy

: TO

TRAGE 50;

92744

dig tim

QUOTATION FOR JUST LIARS PRESIDEITIAL ELECTIONS. TO ERAD CUE A

DORE YOU QUERNEIT THE GOVRRHINNT IN MARRIES TO ME SIDINE

BALIO MAN, OA, MA OS BOLI ANCIRIT: DINION, TO THE GITY OF

WE BOLD OVER 7EE

PROST, COCHARANIA DEPARTAENTAL LABOR CONNEDERATION. II

, was,

WE BEAT KE AN VALEINITATION OF TIE B09787 AIR

THIRTER LARDO LE CATALED ILL ARRITE IN MISCON DAIS WEEX, PORBIDLY

7R SEPLOTS JA PROSPACTE ON OSTALMINI SOVINI AIRORATI FOR TIE ERAZILIAI

AIR YORCE. CARVALEO HAD STATED THÁT NE HAS NO IHETRTIONE FROM HIB

OPTERIOT ABOARDING THIS VIBIT.

CARYAND HAS COMPLAIND THAT, WHIN HS HAS AIR MINISTER. THE OB

MATTO TOL PROVIDE BRAZIL VITE HILICOPTERI ANTER THE US DISCOURAGIO

FRAGILIAN NICOTIATIONS NITY POLAND YOR IUD HELICOPTES HE CLAI

WHAT BARIK MINDS ASCEAT AND TOTES TEA! OTIZE COUTSIRE FiVE "BOT.

O MID RESIAN EQUIPIT

CAIVALEO MAY ALSO DISCUSS AN AGRETINT: PUN AIN ROCKES ESTUARE

THE KIR AND BRABIL

FREETSE INSET! HIT SUN MEET E-

15289

---

## Page 3

UNIT IT"

SATE:

at do wi

C.115:

Tr:

- PAGE THREE-

62444

STOLE FRON THE ARHY BY ZURE TERROSITS--ARE NOU BELIEVED TO HAVE CONS

FIC CUBA THE WEAPORES, MAMUPACTURED IN THE DS AND IN BRIGID MAY HE

FRACED THROUGE SERIAL NUMBERS TO DIVUNTORIES CY MAPORE FURCEASEO

BY TRE CUBAR ARMY SEVERAY TRIPS SCO THE VSNELUELAN GOVERNHENT BAS

LOME CHANGED THAT FIR:, CASTRO NAS ARMINO TIE SERGINE IT 80S

LACED TIE FECESBARY IVIDAICE TO EXHAT PROTRST FORMILLY TE THE OAS

OR OTHIS DITEIHATICIAL BODIES. (CONT)

•. FINEZUMA: THE VILEELAN NATIONAL GUARD BAS INFORNALION

TEAT THE VATEZUSLAN COMMUNIST PARTY (ACY) FLAME TO CARRY DIE 'FIRI

SCALS" TEHBORIST A TIVITIES BEGINNING 20 NOVEMBER

7=21 REE LIVIIIS TAS NOT DISCLOSED. BUT

"WILL SCALE' PROBABLY IRANS (STINSIFICATION DE EE FRASANT KIRAN

CAPAIUN OF SABOTAGE :RS.F

MATIORAL LIBERATION TEE IV'S FIRE PARAMILITARY ARIS

THE MOVEMENT DE ME AT UTIONARY AN SNO PUTS TO LISA A

STATIMENT CALLING FOR A : LIT OF TER NATION LLETTI: • MEDIUTE

YOR I DECEMBER

TAS PY HOPES E:

PRUPAGANDA TO LEAVE THE THE MEAT EITHEE: I:

---

## Page 4

PNG

DATETE 449707

TO :

TRONG DIRECTOR

61005

?" !

INFO &

TO

•PAGE FOUR-

citin

82744

I THE XXSE OF THE RCY, A MEAL COVEREST MOULD BE SUBJECT TO OVERTHRON

IT HITE IN C UGTISTS, LEVISE FE PICHIVOR TIE POY TO

RICE TVE

e. COLCABIA: THE CONNUNIST PARTY OF COLOMBIA (RUC) DAS

VIETSALLS REEN DRIVRN VAUROROND ET TAL TENORIST ACTIVIIT OF

L TIBT EXTREMISTS. DACAVE OY POLICE REPRISALS AGAINST TERRORISTS, DOMA

VIDE POC MEATRE ARE AIRAID TO DIATAIBUTE PROPAGANCA, FAIRT FALL

SLOATS, BELE THE POC MISPAPER. OR EVE LAVE THiR EbIRE PLACES FOS

CELL IRITIGS.

7, GUATIMALA: GUATENALAN CHITI ON STATE PIRALIA RRPORTEDLE WILL

SOON AROWICE A TIMITABLE HICH YOULD CALL YOR INSTALLATION ON AN

INCHED PANS IDENT AND CONORESS EX 1 MARCH 1965. MOCORALEi TO THE

KHPONTS, ELECTIONS FOR A CONTILAT ASSENLY WARD BE BALD IN BANDARY.

AND BUCTIONS FOR THE PRESIDENT AND COUGEESSNEN WOULD POLLON LATE IN

1DBA ATTIR THE ASSIMALY CORCLUDED ITS WORK

WLA PROINT YDIGORAS WAS OUSTAD IF MANH IYOS COLNABL

PIRALTA INT

LN BOILING MINI A SAIDAN IO CARAN CITA. ME

WONTO FANG WANNA TAN KIRS LIONS, PESTIVERECS

...?..?..

15219

---

## Page 5

LASSIFIED M

ONG:

UNiT

EXI

LATF. :

BLINDEX

C HOUNCEX

12008 53 50 912

FROM: :::

. C.'::

1: -PACK FIVE

CITE CIR

82744

PESTRICTIONS ON POLITICAL ACTIVITY UNDEE EIS REGIKE MAT EAVE COIVINCE

HIT TO FOLLON THROUGH PERALTA TOLD THE SOURCE OP CUE REPOET THAT

IR HAS ABSOLUTELY NO DESIRE TO PERPETUATE HIS ADMINISTRATION, BUT IT

BERKS FOSSILLS THAT HE MAY RUN FOE FRESIDENT

8. MIXICO: //8 PORTS OF A BLOC PURCHABIG AGENT TO ARRANGE

THE SALE CP MEXICO'S ENTIRE VIRAT SUMPLES TO THE UBYR RAVE FALLRA

THROUGH. EE IS FE IRPORTED, SOWEVER; TO HAVE BUCCHEDED IN SELLINE

50,000 FONS I ON METICAN VERAT DO A PUNCHABAR FOR COMMUNIST CHINA.

ALSO, FEE FOEBIBILITY OF AN BYRITUAL LEICAN-SEAT KIT DEAL IS HOT

ALTOGEIR PLANE IN FIST UN A REPORT THAT THE BOVIST CORICAL

MATTER.// (000)

9 CURA: JUAN MARINELLO, PECTE SE TAVARA UNIVERSITY AND 1 LOSE

TIME LEADER OF TEE PYEREVOLUTIONRY CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY WAS RECHITLY

ERMOVED FROL HIS FOST AND APPOINTED AMBASSADDE TO DIESCO FRADQUALTERE

IN PARIS. JOAN MIER FEBLES. DEPUTY MINISTER POR HIGHER EDUCATION, HAS

BREN NAKED PROVISIONAL RECTOR. / MIER, LIKE HIS PREDECESSOR, HAS A LONG

HISTORY OE POP ACTIVITIES!

MELESLIDE DEFICEO

1 ÷ o to 22

---

## Page 6

ORIG

UNITA

UrT

DATE !

to

22304:

526 7 01232644

15 harshl

i sit.

TIG GEN

1 мн

INO FIRE

TO "

…:÷

INFO

PAGE 011-

CITE p4 82746

10. ANORE CURANDA

DE ARCRUTINA PRESIDIAT

ALA TIBNE TO MITYA POLICE SON TO ANNEL AREN

COMTRACT VON WE AS ONES TONICA COMPANIO, AS LES PARTY HAS PHONIEET

FOR TITE TOE: ESCOTIATS TIE CONTRACTS MILE DE:

• DIFICULT

NOW ACADIN OF STRONG HAT

IONALIST ATTICES AND THE ADVERTE TRACTIONS TO

A PROPOBED US OBNATE MI

ASIT #SICH TOULO CUT OUT 1E AID IT ANGRATINA

ACTE AGAINET THE OIL COMMITES WITHOVY "SPERDY" COMPENSATION, (COSP)

END OF MESSACH

2..

hool: tie

GENIELS

Africa

---

