# 104-10290-10198

## Page 1

104-10290-10198

1'':

j46 N4 MAY GI

01 9/24

DEC

!..

33/32

6479

3H5EE

1 lot pora

0A2C2R

CLASEIBIED MESSAGE

_ 3-6-3-3=3

75-07

70 :

(CRE BOLO.: )

FROM: 0855003.

307

DiFIZRED

ROUTINE

•1009

Wi it, NE 9.,.

(POUCHED: 5015 21

IDDED: SR

TO

BOOK CADLE

INFO

ICITO PALL BUS

FIGU TON

MUNI BOAT SAN VIERI GNVA

SJAK

"EXT BUY MONT BIOD BECO

REDHOOD

FRA

CITE DIR

190593

sd12

YETN

REC: DE. 79919

1. FOLLING, AS WELL AS LALIT, CHILES THIS SERIES INTENDED

PRIMARILY AS OPORATIONAL MID FOR I STABLISHING COVIACI: IN DEVELOPMENTAL

CONVERSATIONS: WITH SOVIETS FOR PU POSES OF ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION.

IVIZILIGZICE SHOULD AU PEGADED ALI USENUI SY-PRODUCT. FIER PARA 1 REF,

THIS GUIDAYCE (SLIGITLY QURED IO UPCOMING EJLIDAYS) MAY EX CETERED. TO

OLACID AND OILER COLIPAGUIS OR USID IN SUITALS OPPRACIONAL SITATIOND

HUST BE DORM DUKED SOVIES NIMIT DISINCE TERU SOCIAL CONINCTS WITH

WEST IDAS. DENHILOT CONIACTS SHOULD NORMALIX BE REPORTED TIROUEI OPS

CHANNELS,

HO WIIE, SCREEN TOF VATI INTEr.

2. 8) 5000% TUNSITION CE PONER IN U.S. TO JOENSCA ENS AROUSID WORLD_

NITE ADMIRATION. DO YOU SEE AIY IPIILATIONS OR LESSOIS IN THIS FOR SOVIET

UNION AND UPCONIG INSITION TO :FUSICICY SUCCESSOR. EON SOVICT TRANSITIO

LIKELY TAKE PLICE AND IT ANE IN'AL NECHANICS OF TRANSITION?

•RELIABING GOTIAN

CHONO MATICE HELICENS

ВИ•НАМГІСАТІНІ

TELECA

a-s-c-a-i-T

NEARODUCTION EY OTHED ELAN

THE ISSUING ORCEIS PROHIAITER

Copy No:

---

## Page 2

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

TO "

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI

INTO !

C INDES

C NO INOCE

O ALE IN CS PLAINO,

DEFERRED:,

ROUTiNG

• ТО

INTO

CITE DIR

90893

0): DOSS ANY POSSIBILIT: SCIST THAT SOME THIPO PONER SULE AS CHITTA

I BEEN CHATTAN ANY RIDE TY NOT,

GUESS FOR AFRAIN

TINATION, THEIR THA

132 CARD TO PETECT

AOCUMULATDON CE CH

0) MASCON JAB HEATIL ACCUSED CALCON CP MOLOTAL "INPANIIDEN."

TV THIB I8 INTENDED TO MOAN THAT CHOS

TEE READI

EX-LEASE TOO LANURATEX, AND

WITH UNALITO WISHUL TI

JACIO THAT HERE RADIO VILL CUT MINCE ARJIE,

RIVERSS OF CHIS WOULD MRAN THAT THESIN: ISCIP NOW INV

RISONINO MARY-LENIN.

IN BORI REALISTIC AHD ADULT PASION; IN THE WHY TOES. I 80, OF WHAT DOES

THIS MORE MATURE IDEQLOQICAI APPROACE CONSIST; I' 30, WHY IS SOY UNION IGN

MORE THAN EVER FREET WITH OVERWE IMINGLY URT PROBLEMS OF SUCH BABIC MATUERE

AS ERRAD. AND: OTHER DAILY REDS FIR IIS FLOPLE?

4) CIRCA 1 DECINE "IVETZA" IN IONORIN POSTATHOUSLY PURGED BCONCIST

MAS DRANHO CLAN'S SEONGAID "EKRCHS" DATES BACK TO

2028-1929. THIS LITEARS TO RATE: TU ELÜ DECISION TO PURSUE ECONCNICHILE

UNBALANCING PROGRAM OF RAPID COLI ECTIVILISION AND EQUALLY CRYBATANCED OVER-

CONCENTRATION ON FRAVY INDUSTRY. IS THIS CURRECT? DOES THIS JEAN EARLY

AGARABING

C4 047

9-I-0-HB-J

БАНРД НАМД АНА

00119% dantes.

REPRODUCTION Di OTHER T. LAVI. THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITER

---

## Page 3

CUSSINA MESSAGE

--22

7 1190e

**%

DA14

70.

SEELASGO

INFO I

TO

INFO

"E DiR

90593

-3 -

FEZ BILITATION DE RIOSE NO OFFUSE SUCH GIALIS PROGRAN, SUCH AS BUKEANIE? I

DRIVE FOR CEEMICALIZATICN IS NOT A PUSICILY AGAIN REPEATING THIS FUNDANENTAL

STALTY ERROR OF DENLINCEZ OR DOE: IL FEEL LE HAS ALEQUATE RISE IN RESEARCE,

PRECISION INSTRUSTATION, MIES, IN MATENINS, SKILLED LABOR AND TRANSPORTATION,

DTC WHAT LARGE SCALE CEM INDUSTRY INEXCRAELY DERAIDS.

C): 1E KRUCECHLY STILI: EVEL, VULI IS "ECONOMIC EPROR" AD "ECONONIC

CRIME

STALIN BAS EDEN ACCUSED O' BOYA.

P) SOE EUROPEAN RITERS RAL MTO SOV-CENSE CONFLICT AND MOSCOW

INABILITY TO CONVOKE VORLD COMUNIST COTTE, FOR ANNIVERBARY OF REVOLUTION AS

EVIDENCE: IRREVERSIELE FRAGHENTATICI AND JECLINE OF COMMUNIST MOVEMENT UNDER

IMPACT ON EVENTS INCREASIVO MAN DESIRES, AND SPECIACULAR VORLD PROGRESS IN

TECHNCLOGI, PARTICUIRLI HEMPUS, TANSPORTATION AND CORTICARICiS. DO TOU

KHINK THORE'S ANY TRUTH IN THIS? I NOT, WOULD YOU SAY THAT COMMUNISH IS

COPING WITH WORID PROBIENS ADEQUATEY; ECHT IS CONNONIST MONTO, FON: "WORKERS OF

WORLD, DISUNITE?"

6) FROM MOSCON POONE OF VIEW. SOVIDE I RUST CUPON DESIRINS HEC

LITERALLY KHOLED HOLES IN PELIN INLI FOR SHINS OF SUS VISIORS TO EASI

DIA-SIRCUS

FERLIV SHOULD DE FILED FOR CORTING MIELUIS FFOFAGATCS LUIDER BETORE

CHORES INNS 4200089

dadd 3401 40706117alie.?

fine 01976 po sort a

AUTHENTICATIO

OFFICIA

S-2-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTICiN Gi OTHER TH THE ISSUING OFFICE tS PROMiCiTEO.

Cosy Ms.

---

## Page 4

000

UNIT

DATE, 1•

TO: 8.

FROMI DIRECTOR

CONFI

INPO 1

CLASSINO MES NGR

3pnasu

O NO INDEX

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

DEFERRED

ROUTING:

INFO

CITE DIR

90593

HORD OPINION. HOM DO YOU SIEI ABOLI IIY THY REAWAKED EVERY VERCIO dE

REVULSION AND EXNAN DECRADATION TI HAIL RE

BARME, EI FORCINO FROPIE TO

CRAVI TEROTOR A HALE IN ORUER TO VISIT KIN OT: SENTINASIATTS MOST MENNINCIUI

RETICIDUS "EC

IS THIS THE

KIT OF 270

ING TO BE EX

PECTED OF A MATTIRT

MATION AND ONE THAI CLADIS TO VALIE SENTINSHY AND CATORI AB NUCE AB INDIVIDUAE.

RUSSIANS DO? HOW DO YOU: EXPLAT KIP

* D): IN ALI RUSSIAN'ARIIIIOO - OLI AND NEN -'MOSI FREQUENT SINNXPICANI

GRNTDIN." WHAT DASS' IN ACTUALLY NEAN AD NIO CONSTIIUTES

SOVIET "INTE

ITSIA NOW. ARE. YOS MEMBER INIITIGEVISIA AUIOHATICALLS IY

-VIRTUE YOUR DIFLOATIC SERVICE? 70 ARS IIS FORIIOST SPOSERIA?

1) ROSSIAN WRIVER TYUTCEV. EAS SAIO:

"NOI WITE DIND IS RUSSIA

COMPITEENDOD, -- IN RUSSIA YOU MUT JUST EGLIEVE."' WOULD YOU CARE TO COMMENT

ON ILIS AND RUSSIAN QUALITIES IBADISO TEE FUET TO SUCH COCLUSIONE

3.

SEPARATE QEREAFOLLOWS WICE DETAILED GUIDANCE dE LAMOR WNEI

ECONQUIC DEVELOPMANIS.

L. Di ORGER MAXE TELE GUIDICE I ESSFUL AS POSCIRTE, FEGUEST IDRESSEES

INTON IO DE MAYS IN SUICI IL LE USES MI/OR MIDIN EE IMPROVID FOR LOCAL USE.

ASO ADVISE I NOE SEDED YOUR SENTICI.

SAGLI

CHERad 13000819649700

mount cine ans

testaticape

S-5-8-3-1

REPRIDUCIÓN EY OTHER THRIE THE ISUING OFFICE IS PROMINITED:

UINENTICATINO

0001418

Coy, Me.

---

## Page 5

UNPO

INFO

c/sR/co

C/SX/05

C/SK/ CA

C/ UX/CT

FE/M0:

30499909

&0W7184

CITE DIA

90.593

"In drait"

BATILINE

SACU

3058188 1891

digit be,9

CAL FA (80

Casso tóre

---

