# 104-10129-10098

## Page 1

104-10129-10098

-LASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 1

GROUP I

C6EL-0ES PN74

(When Filled In)

0008÷905:95

+49

MAFRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITEO

2

- 2

5

i 8

38: -

Serior, tr

Moor.

middlis

SLOTTED

_=

PER WH

8(E0)

FILE, VR

DDO

SECRE I 040054Z MAY 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 16502

DIRECIOR

RYSAI JMSPUR

31G: 11325691

FOR LUSSY AND ASHMEAD

REFIRENCE:

16466(1W323122)

IU ON LEGAL FRONI, APPEARS THERE IS NO VALID WILL,

ALTHOUGH TWO DIFFERENT UNSIGNED DOCUMENTS HAVE BEEN FOUND.

KINGHAN WILL TALK TO LAWYER GOODRICH TO GET INTERPRETATION

OF WHAT THIS MEANS: LAY AND GENERAL OPINION IS THAT IT

MEANS FIFTY PERCENT GOES TO WIDOW AND REMAINING FIFTY

PERCENT OF ESTATE GOES TO CHILDREN UNDER MEXICAN LAW.

2. ON 3D APRIL, MRS CURTIS TURNED OVER FURTHER

CLASSIFIED PAPERS TO KINGMAN ALONG WITH SMALL ARSENAL OF

WEAPONS WHICH WE SHALL TAKE CARE OF DISPOSING OF PROBABLY

THROUGH GOM AUTHORITIES.

MRS

CURTIS THIS WEEK CONTINUES

COOPERATIVE WITH SIATION IN EVERY WAY AND HOPE WE CAN GIVE

HER WORD SOON ON ARRIVAL OUR LAWYER.

3. KINGMAN HAS PERSONALLY GONE THROUGH DOCUMENTS

OBTAINED FROM MRS CURTIS AND READ NEARLY ALL OF THEM. IN

VIZW INTEREST IN MANUSCRIPT WHICH CONSISTS OF NUMBER OF

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

BY: -

z

PER

ACTION UN::

FILE, V2.

ACTION NO.

PACE

2

15502 SECRET

DRAFIS AND COPIES, WILL POUCH THIS MATERIAL TO YOY FOR YOUR

EXAMINATION. WILL SEND INVENTORY WITH DOCUMENTS WITH SPECIAL

NOTES WHERE PERTINENT. AS WE WANI TO GET MATERIALS OUT OF.

MEXICO, IN CASE QUESTIONS ARISE LATER, WILL POUCH FIVE

FILE BOXES 7 MAY DIRECIED TO ERNEST A. LUSBY. GP-1

SECRET.

Movista

HISSUES

¡SLOTTES

LLASSIFISO MESSAGE

IOTAL COPIES

CROUP!

and incid in

EASLESTO 8AC ATOLAF:

(When Filied In)

50rsg8a9.9: 40;

$:6: 958.0-249:94

REPROJUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIDITED

ROUTING GOIDA INITIALE-S

2

7:

SECRET

---

