# 104-10226-10032

## Page 1

104-10226-10032

SECRET

2 Occober 1961

14-9-9d

NENORANDUM FOR TIE RECORD

SURICT:

Contect Roport setween "Justi" and tr. Heka (uolng some

Cal H1tch) on 22, 29, 27, 28 and 29 septesbor 1961.

1o In addition lo the subject nos, Mr. Pokied (using no

Jim Dondla) ins as all motingo and on or all of sha following

individule alsa attended these cotlaga:

Do Andros ZAYAS (' JuARo")

Do LAda SANCHEZ ("Plecolla")

do Angal ROS ('Quilla")

" Milfrodo BRITO ("Debo") - unling noso 8. I. Rarriaos

%. Portendo CARADA - Uning DOSA Prank Duttes

for additional detaila alroady reported by cable, seo DIR 13354

(OUT 33207) dated 2 October 1961.

LOCOdIES tO BRITO the LeederaDiO of Cha UR Ea Of ALAPSAL 1961

sea as folleus: ('Rafaol" hed been national coordinator until exacuted.

a "Juato" - elvillen coordinator.

D: "Cesar - action coordinatos.

C.

"Plecollia" - general coordinator.

de "piecolino" - sighe-head man of "Rafes)" (also inova sa "pedro").

•: "Arsuro" • fatollígenco..

¡1. "Dodo'' (BRUB ERDO! Willrodo ARIIO) - propaganda.

8o "Ricardo" - security.

l. "arelal" • transportatiod.

So "Boso" (Dos laa dano as tha abova "Beto"' a Planaco.

SCORET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

LT

•2*

'"Iran" a publie solarions.

1. "Bob" a nor a menber of the olfielal excutivo comittoo

bue atlanded all she inceringo.

At a lator mering "Juoto" sold a mon called "Ricardo"

(erie mena: Sergo YVENTITIA) yao sha so-callod UR leader on the atreet

and "Ricardo" (another men, true nano: Nicardo RODRICUEZ-ISPADA) was tbe

ve bander lasido tha Italian Babassy,)

DOIng SIgnAL PlE BULIAG, Contacted. Lila and BRITO Bald MENDOZA was a

crazy boy. Won they saw his they got palely.

"Juito" stadtred garting con thousand poses fros Miro CARDORA.

However, Parat BalTo sald bo did not got 1e uncil corrected by "Joto".

6. Although "Justo" lived in the Icallen Embassy ho sald ho did

sot cake asylun but rather uned that so a safe operationo base and vas

ta mad out my tiess conduccing Uß busions, Hs finally edmitted,

hosevor, that in the cysa ol the cuban people that mas probably aeylus.

• The 20llou1as groupo and thalr lendero and cho Embasnoo se

hich they cook asylus was given by BB410

B. HRRC - "Callin" - Italioa Embaosy, Thia la a different

men than "simon". "Stiona" was the men uho vas the leader of the MARC

un:1l "Cullia' rotarsod to Cuba (bollevod to be March, 1961) end egan

took over the MREC.

Do IND - Mercos Willlana - Itallan Ebassy.

UR - "Justo" - Itallen imbassy,. (le dadd this vas nos

asylus for binsold, but just a'sale living aroa.)

• NDC • "Loca" • Italian Babassy, (Thay don'! like "Lucan"

at to work with AMBlES5»1 a leeder of noc.

O. DRS - "LacheDo" • sabasay, 18 any, sos baowa. (VOITELL

apposedly any loader of DRE.)

dos's 'e 1 à122)CAT3 - "DaT10"' - Beba00y, 18 cy, Dot bones, Fiboy

• shousand groupo end a thousand lendaro.)

---

## Page 3

"Quilla" eupposedly organload the MRs back in 1954; then hi

had o falling-out and blo element, Inor as tan MIRC, rupposadly broi

wich; cha MR soveral monthe bofore the fovenlon and worked with the UR. r

Mosver, all of then spoke voll of "prancisco" and eduleted that hila

grop carried out mat of lue action but always adding elong wich the

Jo. It soon boesno apparone that with "Mancisco" gonn and the evident

contated leaderebip of the Har, that "oullin" thought chlo bould be

cha oppircun tion to attempe to rogala concrol of tha MiR.

Since he

did not fond bo could elatin tho MiR as such, he attented to do lt by

saying "All the good ons loit the Haß and now belong to bin".

9. Mercoo Willians uno the action leador for cho hit end left

•Docento do vanted ection and coulda't sot 16 with RAY. la Bad ordero

BrOa RAY Dol so upo explodives. oco., and not to espose chamelves;

but; Bo juat lto lon and lot tbe ortoro colo the rial. narcos didn'e

agro vill chio and folt that the MRP vas golag to baro to be sative

aloo.

10. Tary kaow of AlUG l saing the varnens "Ardros" and aleo

knew tim erue identity, and they doninced blo and "Cesar", (Horvor,

this am not "Justo" talking, but vos BRITO and SAICLEZ;

mid, BRITO

freaty staltrod that "Juoto" did not fool the anne vay about as

a he did.) SANCHKZ, In eddition te knowing AMPUG, kuaw of a

"Ermoto", buc did not know be true Identity (thia vas the varma

1l. Van querytas ebout dom of the namas in the notpepor

erticle that ennounced the arrant ol thalra peoplo, FURROULLA 529

En eullent mar PuJAl, to my a diecant cousia of BRITU, ves no

mellon on. Although they dida'e Illa APUC-I boasso choy felt.

ho sai trying so opile the UR la bie attempe at mutficacion with

"coon (ngoln "Juato" did not coca to belleve this sons "Cesar"),

thay aald AMPUd would sover talk.

"CoDer", BRITO Pole, Doo seal tud

Indicated ha mide call, homever .

"Jesto" man so violently oppoood

co shat, thes BRITO Sinally adnleted that "Coser" ildn's calk:

de us jose chat to dida'e like his and Cbought he as no good. M00?

of ebo octer todiuldualo chay dson't mos or hal no optalon of.

Hone vr, one of chen onened to chial thas CARCIA-RUBIO might bava

callad, set this sored to ba based more on tho face that be loan.

of many of the ovenco and un a loose collar end lettocrato racher

than cho 8ea8 that ho a dolleratoly informed for hia cam sonelle.

12.

37202

idl

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CHET

1J, The follouing phone minbare nd/or eddresses vero loft ti

mable ons of our poople to contact the lo Mimi

A. "Justo" - FR'J-130S

D. Aagal ROS = 3451 8W 10ch Str00l, Apt. A3, IlI J-7097

a sabot of Paul sure a past la tea represent to cuest and

nupposedly vas in Boatlogo in 1999.

13. The follovas lo a otatement vitton by "Tony",

"I, LULO ARCOatO DIAZ PlaO, Zen the 241D Of Decemb

1960.

et the U. 3. Dubosey in levens, Cobe, 8o ki.

aveLopa vich the followins coatenta: a photoracla copy or El

evolicionary Unity origiaal dormat, a loal of paper of 8 * 1

u1ch sona addressio, a hall load of peper of ebout 6" = Al" cut in

hallo and our $100.00 dollar billa.

This envaloge was eddrossed te

TeN ODIE, at Minni. I nswer got la reich witt

becauda when I

sot to call him ne Miend, so vas called beck to Caba en iccount of ete

relocton ripture borseen the u. ?. al Ota, Rafesl DIAl fold m that

ho por the envelopo ba sent, bur la dicat aiso: No astod

ulte and oba dida'e Inov a thing stout 1e."

Soprember 23, 1981 - (3ignod)

16. Attachsent A da & copy of s documas, self-explenatory, subaltrod

by 803.

17.

So conal tents sero nado to theso peoplo rather, le can a

antor of llstening to cholr loans and leslings and gotring than la a

timo of mod to use dom so real busteros altar balag dent beck to

ehn HAVE and. Thay vora cold they muld deal wich a Mr. Potors and

all bustoras tosluding training would be hondled through his. Thy

appeared to ba la an cagor int roceptive sood von they vere ready to

Jour Washlngton the alcercoon of 29 seprenter: Thry Indicated a

WIlllagnone so cooperare wiel the Mud, soar la, "Quer" and oar",

Bad further indicatod chos "Bobo" tOslA sule be no probles, that

choy would deal with tha "Ancoalo"- IgnacLe NIHDOZA MP eples. In

1es of NoTEC WIllIam, BOS sould altar jost represent the Mult or

mighe own fall back as a pere of the 0.

The relations with ch

other asjor sona muld ba mad the ane an edvocared by AMDOAT-l,

consequently, de la fall that this La a Chence to LeC1lLEStO ANDAL-!"

offert ne producias e introd melacones. They all tallested a

Williago to retur to Que 11 thry could to mereteed a firs

apporte but they did me mine to so back to 0sn just for the nate

el reining end chay did nos mn to sirl the lime al thair asa

anlena chry fole sure chero vas a doliaito sonl to be sitained.

"tanta" copeslally, loll very acrongly thai support mas come carves

COMET

---

## Page 5

SEC?ET

one carment edal for all greape rather than to ladtoidual groupa.

Al the dna rte, ho rocogalaad that lor security set tilo could

bovo: to do hiniled on a compartmeed barte.

10. Thay wore cold char thay at aake an attempt to sot elong

vItA MUro CARTONA and even though they may not liis his Choy mex

try to coopirato wich hia cad work wich his end/or have hia work

for this raciss chen fight his. Thoy suot sot lock bors alch alo,

hover, ofter erespting le una with his 11 they foul 1e completoly

-pon lble so vald sot dony than eupport bocaine of thie.

CALVIN HICKS:

WEL/4/8M

CROTET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

atto Linext A

TAL".:

: Ngcloual. Fxtcur,1w

Belle Do lasation

São A48" Roo Focala (Raul), Boraral cordarator of tho liatioral Executiva

os tha Moviatento do recuperactor povolucionario Cubaro (Mra), do potra

atman temporarily on a opoctal pinglone-

By mans of thie rocione, esta the iscutivo eling in croplaca and

marina Acorel, lo (ta Escultra) eupporta and incoronn in all parta

ino caciatoro mich tro feia de carairal conretrator may bako outaldo of Cuba.

Coneral

Cho rol na ta

lorr

3/ Podro Canzales

oraranio Coontrator

3/(121g91h2c) *

oTesalenao Coordinalsr

''tin.

sinanta antiracor

100t»

•/ Faleni (1).

taon.

utr÷19.

---

