# 104-10216-10015

## Page 1

104-10216-10015

i..

PATY

WE/S

6393

ICH 966

602.e514

DINGER

N4 SECPET

D HOINDEX

DIE 198591999

7 15

B:CA

Tir Tins

25 CTJ2

& MADRID

1: DIRECTOR

516 CFy

W00 va. Pie I RID COPY ADSE, DElUH/CE, Cle:, Cirui

Latera

PRIORITY MADR

INFO

CITE DIA

DESENGIEU

$5730

REF

MADR 7382

DiR

15299259)

FYI, TOLL IS TO LOS SENT TO STATE DEPT ON 2 BARCH:

"WITH REFERENCE TO THE HABANA PRENSA LATINA NEYS RELEASE

OF 5 MARCH 1966, ALLEGING CIA INVOLVENENT WITH ROLANDO CUBELA

SECADES AND RANON TOMAS GUIN DIAZ IN COUNTERREVOLETIONARY ACTIVITIES,

• THE FOLLOWING OUTLINES THE AGENCY'S CONTACT WITH THESE THO PERSONS.

"GUIN WAS RECRUITED BY A CIA AGENT IN AUGUST 1963 INSIDE

CUBA AS A PRISCIPAL AGEYT TO RECLUIT HIGH LEVEL MILITARY LEADERS.

ES HAS HAD NO CONTACT FITH CIA STAFF PERSONNEL.

"CUBELA, THE MORE INPORTANT OF TIE TO LEN, HAS BED IN

CONTACT WITH THIS AGENCY DURING TEE PERIOS 1961-1965. THE LAST

AGENCY CONTACT HITTI CUBELA WAS IN FEBRUARY 1965. HS HAS HAD DIRECT

CONTACI PITH SSTERAL AGENCY OFFICIALS AND. IN ADDITION; IS ENON

TO HAVE BEEN IN ONTACT HITH CUBAN EXILES, INCLUDING MANUEL ARTINE.

CIA'S CONTACT AND RELATIONSHIP FITH BOTH CURELA AND GUIN HAS FOR

TRE EXPRESS PURPOSE UF USING THESI TO COLLECT INTELIGENCE ON

MILITARY ANTTVIRISE NT PUSSTETIO IS CUE!. THE AGEION TAS NUT

INVOLVED WITH EITHER OF THESE TWO HEN IN A PLOT TO ASSASSINATE

NEIS RILEASE. 103

#J7.

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

*RE PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OPTICE IS PRONIBITED.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MESSACE FORM

TOTALCOPIES.

SICRET

SATE:

Te

FROM: DIRECTOR

D INCEN

D NO INCES

D FILE IN ES FILE NO.

ROUTING

151

7

8

PAGE 2

DEOs VA, PiE C'RID COPY

CITE OR 85738

DID IT EVER E'COURAGE EITHER OF THESE TWO PERSONS TO ATTENT

SUCH AN ACT.

"MR.

MENTIONED IN THE PRESS RELEASE, IS A

CIA OFFICIAL STATIONED IN THE U.S. EMBASSY IN MADRID, SPAIN, AND

WAS IN CONTACT MITH BOTH ODON ALVAREZ DE LUi CAMPA AND JOSE LUIS

• GONZALEZ GALLARRETTA, IS NOTED IN THE PRESS RELEASE. TRE PURPOSE

OF TITIS CONTACT WAS LIMITED SPECIZICARLY TO OBTAINING INTELLIOSNOS

• INPORMATION. THERE IS NO TRUTH TO THE ALLEGATION TRAT CIA GAVE

$100,000 OR ANY OTHER SIZABLE SUN OF LONEY TO EITHER OF TRASE

INDIVIDUALS.

"' IN! "THS AGENCY HAS ALSO BAD LIMITED DIRECT AND IDIRECT

CONTACT WITH JORGE ROBREVO, ALBERTO BLANCO RAMIREZ AND CARLOS

TEPEDINO, NOTED IN THE PRESS RELEASE. • AGAIN, THESE CONTACTS WERE

RESTRICTEY TO OSTAINING INTELLIGENCE. "

END OF NESSAGE

-Fine.

Villain

N/ DD/

wrt/s

typhonis

docented !

SECRET

REPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN'THE ISSUING OFFIC

ROHIBITED

Berry ma,

---

