# 104-10226-10089

## Page 1

104-10226-10089

.... ".

CLABITAL... DISSER ATION SORTENGS

CORTROLLED DISCEN/NO PORRICA DIETIN

COUNTRY

SULACT

CUBA

ALIBOXD PLAN PON OKAKRAL UPRISINO IN

CUBA

AR'ORRAO. TDCS D8-3,63), 233

DATE DISTA 31 AVOUST iDER

PRECERINCA FRIORITY

DATI OR

24220

REFERINCES

AUGUST 1962

IN 24d07

PLACI A

14437

DAT ACA

DHITKD STATES (30 AUGUST 1962)

FXC308-3/651,194

APPRANAL

6, EXCEPT A8 HOTED

FIELD RIFCIT NO.

SOURCE

5 MUNEVALUATLO MROMATON SOUICE GRADINES ARE REFINIVE NRAMIRAL OF CONTIN IS TIMATTE

CUBAN BUSINASSNAN (B), FROM AN ARLINE EXECUTIVE (P) IN TOUCH NITE

COUNTERREVOLUTIOHARY MODIBERS IN CURA.

1. COUVTERASVOLUTIONARIEB IN CUBA HAVE PLAONE AN UPRISINO TO TALE PLACE

BETWER 30 AUTUST AND A SAFEDMUR 1962. THE YRETTE ANTICOMINISIA DE

LIRERACICN (FAL) HAS JOINTO INZ MCVINIENTO RIYOLUCICHARIO DXI PLESLO (ARP)

I THIS PLAN. VARIOUS NIBERS OY JH8 OLD CONSTITUTIONAI ARTI, TUS ARREL

ANDY, AND THE NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY STITIA VILI JOIN IN THE UPRIBIRO.

UNITID STATES PERSS BURVICES VILL EY ABXXD TO GIVE FULL PUBLICITY TO TAL

UPRIBINO AS BOON AS IT STARES.

2. IT IS POSTIBLI THAT TIDE CASTRO RAS HAD TO BRIO IN FOREIGN

TROOPS HECAUSE OF THE CONFLICTS WHICH EXUST BATVIDE THE SHALL ANY AND THOR

NTLITIA. MAY MOCKRS OF THE RKERL ARMY ARE DIB ATTICTIO AND COECKRITD ABOUT

TS ARRIVAL CO SOTT-JOC TROOPS. FEE CHLY REBEL ANY WITT WHICH CAN BE

CLASSIFICATION - D.SNIMINATION CONTROLE

8-E-C-8-B-T

IT ATT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAMI

---

## Page 2

CASTER ATON PNARAMANAS.

S-F-C-H-E-T

181.r7

CORT INCID FULLY IN SUPPOST LY ARE GUVIUDOT US CURA IS DIVIBICH SO OF

ORIATES PROVINCE (B/P-4), THIS DIVISION HAS S, OU NEI, EUT SUITIONIT POR

10,000.

3. THERE ARE 300 MEI IN DIVISION SO NIU NIL SUPPURS TEN CONTIA-

REVOLUTIONARIES, BUT BINDI SHIB IA NOT BUTTICIUS, DE COVITENCYG UPTORARIES

INXID TO PUBLISE III KRACT POBITIONS DI ELDONTS OY DIVISIGI SO SO THAT

TESSE UNITE MAY ME ATTACHED TRON THE AUR.

N. POLLO COMENT: FEE ACADE XTECUTIVE NEO LEMONTED TAX ABOTE

LAPORFICE ALBO REPORTED THAT A DURAL UPRIAIIO IN ALI OF THE PHOVINIS

OT CURA VAS BCHEDULED POR N:CO AM, E 31 AUTTI ISE. ME ALLIES DARNETTE

HAS TOLD BY NATIONAL COORDILAJORE OF THE UNIDAD RIVULUCIONARIA (UB) IN CURA

THAT DESPITE A ROQUIST BY TIE VA LI KLE THAT TIERE IE A DILAY DI THE DATE

POR SUCT AN UPRISINO, SIR COLMISKIIVOLUTIONARY ICARIRS DE CURA ARE OF FIE

OPINION TRAY BECAUSE BO NUTY PROPLE ME DIYCIVID, IT IS INT POSSILE TO DIZAT

SEE DATE, PASTICULARLY IN MINI ON SUN TICHIHIRO CE SECULTY CONTROLS BY ENH

COVIPOCEIT OF CURA. (ERADQUARTERS CONTENT!

PORTED SIAT A NIRCRER OF TIE UN IN CULI SADO ON JO AUGUST THAS IT IS DIPOESIBLE

SO AVOIO AN UPRIBIO AND EVEN LESS ROSUIBLE FOR ISI IN TO MARTENSE COMTROE.)

...S. MURLD CONCAT: A BONA FIDE MOPULAR UPROSINI DOES NOX APPRAN LICKIT

A! FITS TIME. IIVISTICUTIDI ON THE EXPORTS CONCEXINDO FIS PORRIALE UPRIBINO

LEADE TO THY CICLUSION TAT IN DOCOU!TON MAY IT IS ACTUAT UN TRAS

IT MAY RIFLECT O-2 DECEPTION OR PROVOCATIN. ALL DITOPILYS ON TE

CASTRATOR - TABLE MINA DA CON: HES

￾ 8-Б-Є-&-П-Ф

CONTROLLED DISEDITO FORNICA PISSEN

---

## Page 3

raidin

J-% -C-R-F. -T

106: 23-3/651,230

100

14210

3

BCHELLED UPRISINO HAS ORIOLATED WITH MEERAS OF THE UN, BOURCES UTTE

CONTACTE ANONG IDOLE REPRENIDIZATIVES ON THE DIRICTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO

ESTUO LANTIL (DRE), TUR MOVIEDDITO HIVOLUCIOUARIO DEL PLABLO (ARP), SH

HOVIALETITO DE EECUPERACION REVULUCIOEARIA (MRR), AND THE JUVENTUD

NFTICONMIBTA CATOLICA DO NOT HAVE ATY INFORMATION ON TILL ECHEDULED UPRIBINO.

THE 30 HOVRUER EXILE GROUP RECRIVED AN URGIVE REQUIRE FOR APES ON 30 AUGUST

FROM CUBA BUT REPLIRO BY ILLIO THE COUP IN CUBA TO REFRAIN PRON ANY

PRECIPITOUS ACTION.. THE GROUP RAB RECTIVED HO INTORULATION ON THE TOUSE

Or dIS REVOLT.

6. TIELD DISARM: CINCLAIT, CONCARIB

DID OF MESSACH

DAISESTRA. DISSIMILATION CONTROLS

Б-I -I -C-R-B-T

COFTROLLED DISID./NU PORRICA DIBSDA

-.

---

