04-t0216-10273

“DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

Chief of Station, JNVAVE
PIC BIA PRON/AWTERDNK/O}) One]
ANTEUNK Progress Report for Period 1-30 Nov:

“ACTCR RLQUOLD eUrCRDNES

Action Required: FYI.

1.

OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

A. Preparations were underway in early November to
dispatch AMTRUK-13 to Madrid in mid-November to cenent
the recruitment of AKTEUNK-19. These plans fell
through when the Madrid Station notified Headquarters
and WAVE thet their workload would not allow sufficient
case officer time to handle AMTEUNK~13 in Madrid at this
time. WAVE agreed to postpone ANTEUNK~13's trip to
Madrid several weeks until Madrid Station's workload
abated somevhat.

B. The prospects of finalizing the recruitment of
ANTRUNK-19 increased however with the receipt at WAVE
of another open letter from AMTRUNE-19, this one
mailed from Mexico City in mid-November. In ANTRUNE-19's
first letter, mailed from Nontreal in mid-October, he
suggested using a friend in Mexico City as a cut-out to
initiate a channel of communications between himself and
ANTRUNE~13. In his second letter, AMTRUNK-19 stated
~——\\ that he had made the necessary arrangenents with his
friend in Mexico. Although WAVE, Headquarters and MEXI
traces on AMTRUNK-19's friend, IDEN A, were fragmentary,
Mexico Station stated that IDEN A was well-known to one
of its PBRUMEN assets who vouched for IDEN A's loyalties.
WAVE intends to send an innocuous letter to AMTRUNK-19 in
ANTRUNK-13's handwriting to keep the channel with A-19
alive. AMTRUNK-19 appears eager to see ANTRUNE~13 again
and has stated in both letters that he has considerable
information to discuss in detail. It is well realized
that this open letter channel 1s far from ideal but it
is hoped that in early January 1965 ANTRUNK-13 can re=
contact AMTRUNK-19 and provide him with a system of S/@

‘umes LASH-/ fle

‘DATE TED OAT DSPATHED
10 Dec 64

Dystrsiutton: caagoo Too oe
w/att, USC UFGA-19045.

VEADQUARTERS FE vena
4



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET UFGA~19045

Ciastivication ‘Disraten evwoGe AND NUMBER

* as well as debrief him thoroughly and levy PI and

MHAPROHW requirements upon bin.

C. In mid-Novenber after the postponement of AMTRUNK-13's
Madrid trip, preparations began to launch Operation
AMTRUKE XY in car’y Poceaber. This operation sould attexpt
to re-organize the ratline to and fros Havana and the
AMTRUNK infil area for the future use of infiltrated
MHAPRON recruiters and other agent assets as necessary.
Secondary objectives are to bring into the tufil area

& cache of weapons and explosives for AMTRUNK-10/AMLASH-1
and to teach a system of S/W to one or more assets in the
area. The team is to be composed of the same four individ-
uals who participated in Operation ANTRUNK IX in October
1964: AMAGREL-1, Team Leader; AMAKA-1, Radio Operator;
and AHTRUNK~16 and -20, Guides. [It vas decided to sheive
the V-20 as the Intermediate Craft (IC) for this opcra-
tion and substitute a 17' Johnson boat with twin 75 bp.
outboard motors which could maneuver through shallower
water and which could be more easily camouflaged. The
basic reason for this decision was the fact that Decem-
ber through February are the low-water months in tho
AZTRUNK operational area, During this shallow water
season, the heavier, wider V-20 can only be used in the
deoper and more heavily-guarded infiltration canals.

D. Through the combined efforts of AMICE~14, the AMTRUNE
P/A, and AMAGREK-1 and AHAKA-1, four radio operator
candidates, to be trainod for future use in PH Opura~
tions, were recruited during the reporting period.

EB. Recruiting for MHAPRON infiltration candidates con
tinued during the reporting period. One Prospective
Anfiltree was recruited during the month of Novenber

and the case officer was active in assessing and debrief-
ing two other candidates. It is hoped that by March 1965
one or more of these candidates will be trained and pre~
pared for infiltration for clandestine MiUAPRON recruit-
ing. In large measure this will depend upon the success
of Operation ANTEUXK X in re-organizing the ratline to
and from Havana.

¥. S/® Wessage Ko. 13 was sent to ANTRUNK-11 in response
to hie Nessage No. 15 in which he stated that both OWVL
receivers were now in his possession. WAVE Message No.
13 to AMTEUNK~11 gave directions for the disposition of
the OWVL receivers and the activation of OWVL contact
with both AMTRUNK-11 and ANTRUNK-10.

INTELLIGENCE REPORTING

Hone
OPERATIONAL EXPENDITURES

Salaries: ANICE-14 $400.00
AMAGREE~1 300.00
AMAKA~1 250.00
ANTEUNE~13 300.00
aeneae 225.00
KE 20 200.00
$1, 675-00
Mileage (AMICE-14 and AMAGREE~1);: $202.40
Household Expenses: 61.97

GRAND TOTAL-——~.

nna $1, 939.37

son sag

aaressueaseresesiee Ir

GLawaiFieATION


i
i
!
i
i
1
!
t
5
g
‘
‘
i
i
%
4

eee

g SSASESESURESESESSSERSGE Da

cikeamcation BisPATEN BVWGGL AND HUGRER

CONTINUATION OF {
DISPATCH | SECRET UFGS~19045

4. PEOJECTED PLARS

Primary teaxs to be accomplished are the mounting of
Operation AXTRUNK X in early December, the dispatching of
AMTRUNK~13 to Madrid to finalize the recruitment of AacYEUKE~19,
and the staging of another contingent of MHAPRON recruiters for
infiltration in March 1965.

‘eLawaivieATION ye os
broad" PS gEaEEREOPSanvernniproy seseenSna Tm

PeRasisusA Gis ENPaot™E_pe pusgptnastsntasestenssansS7O/S9GiSar Aassine/Sasssney asians Seuicesreasiiaes


SECRET AS

.

A

pian aye

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHSENT
TO _UFGA-1904

IDEN Sheet

IDEN A

ee

BECRET

ERASE“ ecmcetmaree ret eminem erent meaner serena nee ener esti rer nnn Arenene reins emperreesstpmunnerne

ie peter aereeeseeseearsieventey

Ps ee
