# 104-10120-10492

## Page 1

(104-10120-10492

• =

29 MAR 100

MEMORANDUM FOR

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

: Director

Foderal Bureau of Investigation

: MT. Willlam O. Cregar

: Mertin Lather King, JI.

An employue of this Agency has volunteered Information

concerning one aspect of the forthcoming "Poor People'a Campaign"

to be directed by the Subject, Rov. Martin Lither King. JI. Al-

though the information provided does not reflect any violation of

Federal law or intent to do so, 1l is tannmitted to your Bureau for

background use in view of the information contained in your well-

received stodies of 11 and 12 March 1968 which provided additional

information concerning the Subject and hie "Campalge."

Soarce has advised thnt Mr. Frank Adams, encutive

director of the Virginis Connell on Humas Relations, recently con-

tacted M%. Robert Clarke, mintetas of the Arlington Unitarian

Church, 4441 Arlington Boulevard, Arlington, Virgints, Adams

advised Clarke that Clarke's church had been selected by the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference as s focal potat os

"Command Center" to support the upcoming Poor People's Clea

paign headed by Rev. Martin Luther Kiag, Jr.

On the evening of 12 March 1968, the source indicates.

Rev. Jelferson Rodgers of the Church of the Redeemer, Wamhing-

tom, D.C. - spoke before the congregation of the Arlington Unitarian

Church on the objeetives of the Poor People's Campaign. Among

other things, Rev. Rodgers related that some 3, 000 people trained

In passive demonstrations will be bronght to Washington in order

to pressure the Congres to enact legislation In the civil rights

ures. Rodgers asled the congregation to provide such vimible map.

port as food, sholtar, child care and transportation. Rev. Rodger.

DESKET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

also mentioned the ponsibility the Potomac bridges might have to be

cut off or blockaded and the demonstration: tara to elvil disobedience

Il the démands are not met by the Congreet. In response, No.

Ralph Spencer, Chairman of the Board of the Church, and an emplo;ee

of the Department of Agriculture, stated the Church could not and

would not be a party to any unlawiel act.

Two members of the Board of Directors of the Church

subrequently contacted Mr. Spencer to express grave reservationa

about their church becoming deeply involved in the Peos People's

Campaigi. Both Indicated to Mr. Spencer that they dutired a sent -

ing of the Bourâ to air the lames Involved. On the evening al 18

March 1968, the Board of Directors met to discuss their partielpa-

Hon. A "blanket endorsement" of the Poor People'a Campaign was

proposed. The Board aplit four to lour. A second proponal called

for the Church'e Soclal Responsiblities Committee to serve an the

focal polnt for roceiving and terlewing all sequesta for support by

the Poor People's Campaign, whether from the SCLC or the Virginla

Connell on Human Relations. The proposal called for the church to

examine ench reguest and situation as it devaloped and to deelde on

the support to be rendered or not rendered. This second proposal

was approved by a seven to one vote, the sole dimentar beles

Sherman R. Abrahamson, & former CIA employee now with the

Department of Commerce.

The firet request to be considered under the Board'»

approved guldeline was that requesting the clarch to act ana utore-

house for food supplies. The Board agreed to honor the sequent.

Because of his deep concern that the Arlington Unltarian

Church and Its Bourd might be duped of exploited by elamente of

the Poor People'" Campaign, the source has Indicated a wallingne..

to provide additional information as the Campaiga develops.

Attached are copten of materials provided the source

by the aforementioned Frank Adans.

......i

---

## Page 3

-

*..

The Information contained in this memorandum in for

your laternal use only and is not to be disseminated outside your

Bureau without prior approval of this Agency. Please transmit

any corsespondence on this matter, Via Liaison, Attention:

Director of Security.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

signed

I CHARLES W. KANE

Howared. Osborn

/ Director of Security

Attachments as stated

CC:

(37123) w/o att

/ Mayer, Alan Eugene (56279) w/o att

Subj's file

Black Power Threat (534 051) cla (27

OS/SRS/EFSayle/pjh - 26 March 1968

3

---

