# 104-10185-10142

## Page 1

104-10185-10142

CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FORCIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY " Cuba

SUSJECT

Draco or Draque ESCALANTE

REPORT NO:

DÄTE DISTR

NO. PAGES

cst 316/00255-64

20 July 196€

1

-REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty.

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE S

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO. July 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNSKALUATED: INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE' APPRAISAL ON SC

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

1.:

The following report is one of a series coniaining persocality

information provided by the soirce ard includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the persorality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Diaco or Draque ESCALANTE, pseudonyra" Ciro, " is an officer of

the Dirección General de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate of

Intelligence) stationed in Cuba. i

- Headquarters Comment.

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information on

ESCALANTE.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

5

4

4

3

2

GROUP B

LEBI?

STATE

1OIA

ARHY

I NAVY

I AIR

RED CINCLANT

_ CINCSO E

(No'e: Field distribution indicated by "a)

N5 SH/203 1 WE/S/R IT CI/LIA

W. SADE 1 WE/MADR2 CIR&A

SATR

TH/SA/CT 41

RID/AN

3

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1(2), CI 4, RID 1

peas so. 1

OBSOLETE PRAVIDES EDITIONS.

PAS

COMMATO

JEL

/WASHI

111150% *

201- None

Loca

IX- 1596

INO PROJECT

(-LMMUG-1)

SO 3160 005-6

CDODIMTING EXTEM: LE

• 1a/mat

128.

---

