# 104-10185-10121

## Page 1

104-10185-10121

3

2

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• UB.C. Era 113 and iãl, the enemalon or reveinion a wilch la aãy mannir to no unauiborico part

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT Alfredo MIRABAL Diat

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00685-64

DATE DISTR. 14 August 1964

NO. PAGES

3

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

•Do Nat Reproduce

SATS OF 1954

INFO.

PLACE & Maskington,

D. C.

DATE ACO. ARCHAI 19S1

THIS IS UNEVALUATED I

INFORMATION

FIELD REPORT NO

DINGS ARE DEFINITIVE

SOURCE!

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service unt1l April 1964.

Headquarters CC. sents

The following report 1s one of & series containing

personally inforbation provided 'by the source and

includes supplemental Information from the records

of this Agency.

It Is requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned In the personality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

ALfredo MIRABAL Diaz, pseudonym "Fedorico," is the

chief Cuban Intolligence officer in Moxico Cisy as of

January 1964.

Although Hanuel. VEGA 19 replacing MIRABAL

as chie, MIRABAL possibly will continue in sexico. 1,2, 3,4,5,6,7,8

Headquartors Comments

In September 1947,

a usualiy rollable source reported

that Alfredo WIRABAL, director of the Sugar Workers'

Union of Contral Stewart and Colonies and delegate of

Central to official and managenont organizations,. was

active

in the Partido Socialista Popular (Cuban Communist

Party - PSP) In the Province of Camaguey.

2•

In the 12 April 1953, Issue of the publication Hoy

with Alfredo MIRABAL Diaz, financial

secretary of

the Sherwin Willians Woriers' Union, was

printed

reference to the workers' denands.

NO

SECR

E T

FOREIGN

DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

(Notes Fiold distribution indicated by "*")

I NAVY

CINCSO #

Ail

INSA

I&N'S

AKXXX

/ OCR

IFBI 2

63/56/30311 10/5/R

2 CI/REA

131 YE

RIDLAY

TETALE

LIH/SA 8 (1), 1E1 (2), CI4,

12-JUH -263

16:1:80."

RID 1

LIAISON.

(LX-1636

JO PROJECE (ANUG/1

_ CSCI-316/00685--5-1

¡COORDINATING RELEASE PALS

112K: LD: 35

CT/RSA

3/8R

---

## Page 2

3.

5.

6.

SIC&E?

TO FOREIGN DISSES

• hawally reliable source in 1 report. dated 29 Juie 1955,

thar' in septeuber 1955, 11 las Called to the

siionzion, of the Service de Inidligencia Lilitar (silitary

iniolligonce Service : Sir) ¿bar tro brothers, alfredo

IX121L Diaz and Sainel LIaii Diaz, explojed by the

Stetti Williaas Coupany Of Cuba, hid arsist ideas.

investigation goraled thes is lugist 1916, wen Alfredo

Mº3aBlL vas director of the sindicato de Trabajadores

scaroros del Central Stewart j sis Colonias (Union of

Sugar Workers of Contral

Stéwart), he was arrested on a

charge of causing an illicit strike at the Central. Oa

the day of his arrest he wis awarded a prize by the PSP

for having distinguished hisself in the work done.

a SIM agent interviewed Alfredo MIRABAL

31d he (Alfredo) admitted to having been affiliated with

the PSP but denied being a Camunist.

beionged to the PSP merelyas a laborer; believing that

workers should belong to thar Party.

aiso disclosed that. Alfredo JIRASIL ins the "Delegate

O¿ficial and Managemens Orgasizátions" (sic) of the •

• Sindicato de Trabajadores de la Fabrica de Pinturas

Sherwin Williams (Union of Saerwin Nilliams Korkers).

Fe was described as white, civorced, a native of Habana,

ce son o¿ Rogelio and Sofia, and & resident of Calle E

Number 302, Reparto Satista.

Anotlica Oifice of this Agency, in a report dated 28 May 1962,

stated tiat an'untested source said that one (fnu) MIRABAL

was the chief of G.2 in Caibrien.

• Is live feet five inches tall, and weighs 160 pounds.

In Septenber 1963, it was reported that Alfredo MIRABAL Diaz,

Join in 1923,

arrived in lexico as the Cuban Consul on

2 September 1963.

Reporteddy, he did not know his job as

was held in contenpe by his staif for his

incompetence.

In October 1953, it was reported that the aunt of Alfredo

JIRASAL Diaz stated

that Alfredo MIRABAL had boen appointed

•To she Cuban Consulate

in derico.

Fe was reportedly an

old-line Conmunist under BATISTA and he was probably

trained in Moscow.

* Cuban

businessuan in lexico City with good contacts in the

Cuban Embassy land who has reported

reliable information

for

about two yoars stated in a regort dated 17 February 196%,

that on 23 January 1964 Alfredo d. MIRABAL Diaz, Consular

Artsche of the Cuban Embassy in sexico City,

sent the following

cable to the Administration Section of the Cuban Ministry •

of Foreign Relations:

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

:8:

"It is urgcntly necessary the you send this Consulate's

allotrent for the months of December

and January

possiblo to operate without. money.

I, consider it absolutely

imperative to increase the allotent begianing in January;

Today I an pouching a projected estinate for this year.

urge your rapid attention.

A Cuban with contacts among Cubar diplonats stated, In a report

dated 12 June 1964, that Alfredo L.4ABAL Diaz,

In charge of the

Cuban Consulate in

Mexico City,

was born about 1929; has been

carried twice, and has'a very poor education.: All his life Le

has been a Cornunist and everyone In tiis fantly is Communist:

He belongs to the syndicate of the tin foctory: In Luyano, Habana,

where both le and his brothers worked for years. He also worked

"Celsa del Agua Institute" for some time.

NO

C

R

E

T

FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

