# 104-10185-10149

## Page 1

104-10185-10149

MNFORMATION

REPORT

INFORMATIONPRERORT

CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIG! DISSEN

COUNTRY

Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUECT

The Organization of

the General. DAtE DISTR

Directorate of Intelligence

(Diréccion General de

NO PAGES

Inteligencia - DGI)

CS-311/00115-64

8 July 1964

17

REFERENCOS

DATE OF

1964

UNFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. JUne 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED ANEMATION. SOURCE GRADINES ARE DEMITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelli-

sence

Service until April 1964.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Headguarters Comment.

The following inforration,

as reported

by source during a debriefing, includes a description of the

Caterine note break does eare in a departme

Intoligcacia - DGI, & break-dors of each

departments,

the functions of rach

department, a diagram (Chart A)

of the

organization of the DGl, and a nap (Chart B) of the DGI com-

pound in Habana.

1.

Introduction.

The General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de

ts the Cuban external intelligence agency,

with maintaining security, cotceting lulormation

ind promoting Cuban Governrent intellirence policles abroad

rior), and

was established sometine in mid-1901.

only with oporations abroad.

intelligence within Cuba, counterintelligence, and security

are the resporsibllity of the Derartment of State Security

(Departmento

de Seguridad del Estado - DSE).

The two agorcles

iridependent but maintain laison and coordination on cer

tain matters.

2.

The DGI, also known

as "H," or "N Department," is organized

under a director general and his deputy; its components are

a main headguarters with administrative

and personnel offices,,

eight departments, and the direcior's office (see organization

chart of page 14.

It is closeir connected with Ramiro valdes

Menendez, the Minister of Interior,

and is also of continuing

to Fidel Castro, Raul Castro, and Ernesto "Che" Guavara.

5

SE-C-RE-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ting and

STATE

REPCISCLANT

ARMY

CINCSO =

(Noto: Foold e

stribution indicated tay "#*.)

I AIR

1 234

IFBI

2

I&VS

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMALION REPORT

IX-T523.

NP (AUMUG-1)

CS-311/00115-64

93

TOTALE

For Distripurion See Attached Page

Cor Aï/eStalST, iI, AdSIa site 23

61A18004

CODADINATINE PEACATINE

REG RHT

---

## Page 2

14-00009

Hidgrs Dissem

WH/COPS

WIl/PO/A

WH/PO/B

WH/RO

WH/SA/EOB

WH/SA/MOB

WH/SA/R

WH/SA/CL

WH/1

WH/2

WH/3

WH/4

WH/5

WH/6 •

WH/R

CI Staff

CI Liaison

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/1

EE/P

EE/C

EE/ IIS

EF/CI

FE/PMI/I

FF./JKO/J0

FE/ JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

1

5

20

1

1

3

1

21

1

4

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

• la -

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/I

NE/5/P

NE/G/C&I

NE/R

NE/CI

1

WE/L*

WE/2

WE/3

WE/4

-WE/5

WE/BC

WE/R

1

1

Field Disser

WH/MEXI

WH/MNTY

WH/MRID

WH/ SDOM

WH/SNDR

WII/SJAN

WHI/PIBO

WH/POSN

WII/KNGS

WIl/PRIN

WIL/GORG

WHI/PACY

WH/MANA

WH/SJOS

WHI/SALV

WH/TEGU

WHI/GUAT

WIL/LAPA

WH/BOGO

WH/QUIT

WH/GAYA

HII/LIMA

WH/CARA

WH/ BUEN

WH/COBA

1

1

1

1

WII/MONT

WH, ASUN

WH. SIGO

WH/RIOD

WH CUK i

WH: BRIL

WH, SAOP

WH/ BHIA

WH/BERO

WI/LGRE •

WH/RECI

WH/BLEM

WH/WAVE

AF/ALGI

AF/ORVA

AF/RABA

AF/CISB

AF/ACCR

AF/CSRY'

AF/BAKO

AF/DARE

EE/VIEN

EE/SBUR

EE/CYRU

EE/ATHE

EE/KIVA

FE/SLON

EE/BERN

EE/GIVA

EE/ZURI

EE/SOFI

EE/ BELG

EE/'ZAGR

EE/BUDA

EE/POLE

EE/PRAG

EE/BCHA

FE/DJAK

FE/NEDY

FE/SUR.

FE/TONI

FE/OKIS

FE/SEOU

FE/SAIG

FE/KOBE

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

post

CS-311/00115-6-1

NE/COLO

1

5

1

1

NE/MIDRS

NE/KUWA

NE/KAHI

NE/DACC

NE/LAHO

NE/RAWL

NE/BAGH

NE/REIR

42 NE/DAMA

NE/ALEP

NE/ JIDD

NE/DARA

NE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ALEX

WE/BRUS

8

WE/OTTA

WE/ROME

WE/MILA

WE/HAGU

1

19

TELIST

WE/MADR

WE/BARC t

WEZ COND

WE/PARI

24

Liaison/ Dissem

14

pros pod

L/WASHI,

16

1

1

113-3

post fres

1

8

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NO FORS DISSEN

= 2

C5-311 00115-01

3.

4.

5:

6.

The Directus's Office.

The dircetor general of the pGs is Manuel PINEIRO Lesada, known

•Red Board"

ilarba Roja).

is closely associated with

Ramiro VALDES, to whom he has direct access at ang time; he 1s

required to report secularly to Fidel CASTRO and to coordinate

with him all expenditures

of

large sums; and he also has direct

contact with GUEVARA.

Raul CASTRO often visits PINEIRO's office:

his principal interest appoars to be the guerrilla schools (see

pelow), but he maj have others in the Dol.

PINEIRO also handled

the principal contacts with

the soriet advisors of the bol.

His

direction if the DGI is handled through a deputy. bus he also

has direct contact as desired

with department chiefs and lower

level porsonnel: chiefs of field stations report directly to him,

although other field-station business is handled through the

departmonts responsible for field work.

PISEIRO himself has

trained some important agents in field work and has subsequently

acted as their handling officer.

PINEIRO has

his office in his residence at Alst Avenue and

I8th Street In the Miramar district of Habana..

There he keeps

Cunctional files of everythiny concerning the DGI: other files

from individual sections are brought to him for review and then

returned to the department of scetion that maintains

is a daily courier service between his house and the DGI

The house has at least two separate telephones,

one personal and one official, the latter providing direct com-

munication

number's 1s

29-1257. stovernment agencies.

One of the telephone

The outside entrance of the house always

two guards in olive-arcen uniforms; they are probably from

In addition, PINEIRO has a bodyguard staff of six, also

the DSE. Three of them are always with nim on 24-

hour shifts: one acts as chauffeur when he goes out. while the

second cal".

He keeps three cars, all 1961

Oldsmobiles, one blue, one bolge, and one black.

In his home office PINEIRO has an aide, pseudonym "Castor, "6 who

handles the office work but does not attend private interviews.

In Cuba he stays in the office and does nut accompany PINEIRO

outstdo the office.

When PINEIRO travels abroad,

"Castor'" ac.

companies him, as for example

on his visit to Moscow in April

At the main DGI headquarters. PINEIRO also has a secre

tary, pseudonym

and a clerk-typist, pseudonym

"Zoraida";

they occupy desks in the executive office of the DGI

deputy chief but work strictly for PINEIRO.

"Vidalina" handles

all incoming and outgoing correspondence and cable traffic and

distributes it both within DCI headquarters and abroad.

DGI Main Headquarters•

The main headquarters of the directorate is known as "Department

M" of the Ministry of Interior,

but very few people know any-

thing about it or are cvon aware of its existence.

a house and grounds which were formerly the properts of the GOMEZ

Mena family.

It covers a whole city block bounded by d9th and

51st Avenues and 78th and 80th Streets in the Lorrazabal section •

of the Marinao suburb of Habana.

The block is a compound sur

rounded by a concrete wall,

with trees planted completely around

it inside.

There are two

entrances:

a main entrance with wooden

SECRET

NO FORN DISSET

---

## Page 4

CS-311/00'15-t

7.

8.

fates located

nial the center of the block on 80th Street and a

back entrance with steel doors located directly through the

block on 78th Sticet.

The nain entrance is manned by guards

armed with PPShA machineguns; the rear entrance is kept locked

and is used only in emergencies.

No pass or identification is

required to enter the grounds.

The headquarters compound (see diagram on page 15) contains al

except PINEIRO's home office, the three oper

tonal departments. and the Special Schools Department. described

The main building,

called i Building.

is situated near

the center of the compound but off the main axis between the

It houses most of the offices in its two stories and

contains a canteen, public telephones, and a police radio for the

city ard the Ministry of Interior.

There are no large assembly

rooms; conferences are held in small rooms.

Within the compound,

separated from

Building by driveways and parking lots, are

several other structures:

a. A two-story building housing the Personnel Department on the

first floor and the Inspection Department on the second.

b. Three one-story service buildings: a guard office with

sleeping quarters for 20 to 25 guards, a food-storage are-

house, and a clothing-storage warehouse.

The guard office

and the Personnel-Inspection building flank the main entrance

on 80th Street.

c .

A two-story building, in the angle of the

grounds formed by

78th Street and 49th Avenue, housing the Technical Operational

Support Department.

Its sections, the Photographic

La boratory

and the Concealment Device Section, occupy indi-

vidual buildings in the compound.

General administration of the DCI 1s

where PINEIRO's deputy. (inu) CHAIN, handled from the l Building,

pseudonym "Agusto," has

his office.

Besides acting

as director general when PINEIRO is

away from Cuba. CHAIN is responsible specifically for management

of large expenditures,

South American affairs, and the approval

of false passports for travelers.

He signs.

in pseudonym, all

notices and circulars issued to the directorate.

"Georgina."

through "Vidalisa,"

distributes cable traffic to the DGI departments.

outgoing cable traffic and diplomatic pouch traffic are received

at this office from the Central Ciphering Service (Servicto

Central de Cifrados - SCC), which is a communal coding and de-

coding service operated by the DSE.

CHAIN's office apparently

also acts as a recciving and distributing center for clandestine

radlo traffic but does not itself send or receive radio messages;

the actual transmission is possibly controlled by the Communist

9.

Directly under the deputy director are two administrative depart-

nts for staff members. Personnel (Departamento de Personal) al

rhich decupy a separa

building in tne

Inspection (Departamento de Inspeccion'' The Personnel Department,

headed by pseudonym

"Pelayo," which handles all matters concerning

staff member administration

socal security, ese so los about i o is membero.

• SECRET

NO FORN DISSEN

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NO FORN DISSE

0 100

CS-311/00115--64

The Inspection Department, headed by pseudonym "Dario," which is

responsible for discipline in the directorate and for investiga»

tions of staff personnel, probably befora hiring, has 10 to 12

department chiefs are probably former members of

the bst, and some of the ofiice staff are also former iSE members.

Soviet Advisors.

10.

Attached to the DGi headquarters is a group of Soviet advisors,

who occupy offices 1a d Building

Their presence and identitles

are kept as secret as-possible, even among the officers who work

with them, and they are known only by pseudonyns.

They have

especially close contacts with Manuel PINEIRO and CHAIN, and

with the Illegal Department, whose officers can consult directly

with then at any tine.

Ordinary desk officers in other depart

ments can consult the

Soviet Advisors only at their offices la

I Bullding, where no special security precautions are observed,

but they do not see nuch of them except when visiting the

Illegal Department whea the advisors are working there. The

Soviets can visit any departuent whenever they wish.

11.

Infornation obtained by DEI

agents abroad can be passed to the

Soviet advisors. 8

The five known are the following:

"52 Frances" (The Frenchnan), PINEIRO's personal advisor.,

1s apparently the chief Soviet advisor in Cuba.

He bas

an office In M Building and frequently visits PINEIRO's

house.

He was born between 1909 and 1914; is about five

feet

seven inches tall and of mediun build; has very grey

hair; has blue eyes with bags under them; and wears at all

times gold-framed glasses with small-to-mediun round. lenses.

His Spanish is

fairly good.

He has a car assigned by the

Cuban governent and drives it binself.

b.

A Soviet man,

name unknown, accompanies "Fl Trances.". He

tall, is of medium to thin build,

weighing about 145 pounds,.

and is clean shaven.

An officer

who saw hin frequently at DGI headquarters hever heard him

C.

"Juan," who shares an M Building office with "5l Frances"

but works principally in the Illegal Department, is the

directs the recruitment

consultant on illegal operations' their entry and cover, and

and handling of agents, arranges

maintains files.

At one tine he spent about six months in

France; the gereral impression is that be was there as an

illegal resident rather than in the Soviet Embassy.

speaks excellent Spanish with very lidale arcent and ap

parently has known the language a long aine.

He too has a

car assigned by the Cuban government and drives lê hiasell.

Ho was born between 1910 and 1324 and is an artive, athletic

man, about six feet tall and weighing a husky 200 pounds,

He looks young, although his hair is grey,

as is the short-clipped mustache he wears lou on als lip.

d.

A Soviet wonan,

Dane unknown, works in ins Deparincat of

Technical Oparatiosal Support (di).

She was hor? cAtween

1929 and 1931,

is five feet seven oi eight inches tall,

stout but not fat, has blue eyes and sirost shoulder-length

SECRET

NO FORY DISSEMI

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SCRET

SO FOR: DISSEV

- 6 -

CS-311/00115-64

14.

15.

16.

17.

Amon Chere uperios usually goes first to Mexico and is forwarded.

Mesico is also a mooting place for operations of

ficers from Cuba and agents from Contral and South America:

Canada similarly serves

as a recting place for agonts from the

United States.

Legal field stations do not

normally deal with

illegal agents except in a great emergency.

In all legal field stations. the DGI representative is charged

with keeping track of, checking, and reporting on the political

activities of the other members

of the mission to which he is

attached.

DGl officers also assist with the political classes

and lectures held periodically for members of the mission. but

this is a task shared by all mission members and is not assigned

to nny officer specifically.

Physical security, such as techni

cal oxamination of Cuban premises for audio surveillance devices,

is not a DGI responsibility; it is performed by the DSE.

In countries with which Cuba does not have diplomatic relations,

DGI activities are handled by agents stationed permanently in

the country as

illegal agents

as members of Communist Parties

and

leftist groups.

Their assignments are sabotage.

subversion,

selection

and training of guerrilla warfare candidates and other

agents or

Guatemala

groups in latin America primarily.

The Dol regards

and Venezuela as the

which its opcrations

have been

most successful.

Cuba or from

field operations are run from

an adjacent country.

The Dopartment of Legal Centers (Departamento Centros Legales -

The NS department is headed by Pedro PARINAS Diaz.

donym "Otoniel," and has a staff of 15 to 20 persons.

offices are

the. M Building compound, but in a

of 3lst Avenue and 64th Street in the Marianao

The department is in charge of the field

stations, known

as legal centers, in cach country with which

Cuba has diplomatic relations or

where she mintains commercial

missions. Its personnel are not assigned abroad as a rule:

they act as the service group at

headquartet's for field person

nel drawn from any part of the GI.

Field station chiefs, as

noted above, report directly to PINEIRO; the MS Department takes

care of all paper work for the field stations, including photo

graphing incoming and outgoing documents; naintaining files of

field correspondence; and handling coded radio communications.

Coded radio messages

prepared by desk officers are photographed

and sont to the field on microfilm and messages on microfilm

received from the field are decoded and passed to the proper

department; MS does not do the decoding itself.

The department

does not have its own radio station.

It does not run any agents

abroad; it does, however, assign dead drops and explain their

use

to field agents, mostly those of the Illegal Department.

The Illegal Department (Departamento Ilcgal). The department is

"who directs operations rather than

deny Rolet Yesh agents: his deputy is Santiago PEREZ, pseu-

The staff of about 20 persons is responsible for

"illegal" agents.

that is. agents of all nationalities

whose activities and connections with Cuba are secret.

The des

partment recruits the agent; arranges for his training. means

of clandestine conmunication, and travel to his assigned area;

and thereafter directs, supports, and maintains communication

SECRET

NO FORY DISSEM

---

## Page 7

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

- 5 -

('5-311 00115-00

12.

13.

reddish brown hair.

She is ugly and dowdy, wearing low heels

and a Soviet-style dross. like a peasant's.

e.

A Soviot man.

name unknown, works on South American opera-

tions in the Illegal Department.

Operational Departments.

Of the eight departments making up the headquarters, three are

four are concerned with operational support or

training, and one is administrative.

The three operational de

partments are Legal Centers (Contros Legales - NS). Illegal

(Ilegal), and National Liberation (Liberacion Nacional - LN);

the last two were formerly a single department, known as MA

(Intelligence).

All three departments handle operations abroad

for the purpose of collecting information on the host country.

promoting Cuban political aims, and conducting subversive ac-

Their operations are distinguished by two factors,

legal connectiors and Communist Party-leftist group liaison.

The Departmen: of Legal Centers is responsible for operations

conducted through Cuban official missions in countries with which

Cuba has diplomatic relations and has normally nothing to do with

illegal agents. The other two departments handle illegal agents,

both in countries with which Cuba has relations and in those with

which she has none.

• The Illegal Department has no connection

with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups abroad; the

National Liberation Department deals mainly with such parties

and groups; the Department of Legal Centers may work with them

or unilaterally.

All three departments

are organized in geo

graphical divisions with area

desks for each country within

their respective fields

responsibility; there is thus some

overlapping in desk coverage.

The DGI has two types of overseas intelligence operations (as

distinct from guerrilla warfare

legal field stations and illegal agents.

The legal field station exists in every country with which. Cuba

has diplomatic relations; its porsonnel are members of the local

Cuban diplomatic, consular, or trade mission.

selected from all parts of the DGI organization; no distinction

is made,

for exampic, between officers from

Illegal Depart-

ment and the National Liberation Department, but each person

assigned

overseas performs whatever duties

requires.

Field starion chiefs report directly to PINEIRO, but

administration goes through other channels, as explained below.

Field

stations vary

depending

on local objectives and

the quality of diplomatic relations.

In Soviet Bloc countries,

for example, field stations are usually small, with only one or

two officers, who have no intelligence collection or similar

responsibility but are charged principally with aiding travelers

to Cuba and with liaison with the local intelligence service.

In countries outside the Soviet Bloc, legal field stations have

various responsibilities; in Latin America, their principal ac-

tivities are promotion and direction of gubversion and sabotage

station is in Mexico, which is important because it is a major

transit point for both personnel and materials, and because it

is a contact point for any loftist organization of any country

which has representatives in Mexico. Naterial for other latin

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

## Page 8

1d-0d0d

SECRET

NO FORS DISSEM

- 7 =

CS-3i: 00115-6•1

18.

19.

with him throughout his active tenure. It does not deal with

members of communist Partles or leftist organizations.

persons in contact with official Cuban personnel abrod, who are

the responsibilitios of other departments; the mechanies of com

munication are also handled elsewhere.

Agents are statloned in

a!l abomatoo wiere coon as interested in collecting information,

penctrating the government. or conducting subversare operations,

in Europe and Contral and South America.

The department has no

agents in Asian or

the Unlted States lafrican countries, and no agents are known in

Agents onco trained usually remain perma

nently abroad.. If they are in an arca where there is a legal

field station, they do not normally have any contact with its

The Illegal Department is divided into three main geographical

sections, cach subdivided into country desks, as follows:

section a, Europe, chief unknown; under this section there

ano desks for all countries.

Section B, Central America, chief Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montoto

(no pseudonym), who was

formerly stationed in Mexico.

deputy is pseudonym

Country desks include Costa

Rica, Dominican Republic,

Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico,

Nicaragua, Panama, and El

Section personnel in

officers Fernando PASCUAL Perez, pseudonym "Alejandro";

Saul GONZALEZ, pseudonym

"Denis"; Gustavo

(lnu). pseudonym

pseudonym

"Mauricio"; Rafael GUZNAN,

"Wilfredo";

"Miguel"; Omar

(Inu), pseudonym

"Oscar"; Raul GONZALEZ,

"Olexis"; and Francisco (Inu), pseudonym

Thoir desk assignments were not known.

C.

Section C, South America, chief unknown.

Country desks in-

clude Argentina, Bolivia,

Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador,

Paraguay, Peru,

Uruguay, Venezucla, and British Guiana.

officers in the section

pseudonym "Ulises." formerly

perhaps in Chile, and

"Juan Carlos,

Both were returned to Cuba for discipll-

tho countries where they had served laned to the desks for

The National Liberation Department (Departamento de Liberacion

Nacional - IN.

The department has no chief; officers rishing

advice consult Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, pseudonym "Javier," who

is head of the Central American Section of the department. or,

in his absence, go directly to Manuel PINEIRO or his deputy,

The department offices occupy two two-story buildings at

6610 and 6612 7th Avenue, between O6th and 70th Streets, in the

Ampliacion de Almendares

section of the Miramar district of

The department, which is one of the largest in the dgI,

is responsible for promotion and direction of revolutionary ac

tivity, Including guerrilla warfare.

It acts mostly in cooper?-

tion with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups. but

conducts some operations unilaterally without local coordination.

Among Its activities are the recruitment, arrangement of travel

to and from Cuba and training in Cuba, and the direction and

support of guerrilla fighters in its target countries. Since

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM!

---

## Page 9

14-00000

20.

SICKET

SO FORS DISSEM

- 8-

CS-311/00115-6•1

Cuba is not concerned with revolutions in Furopean, Asian.

African countries.

mostly on latin American

germents. except these that maintain diploatic celations

Althoual the department has so African interests,

Zarziluris wore trained in Caba; the arrangements were handled

outside the DGI by Fidel CASTRO himsolf, with the participation

of Manuel PINEIRO.

In addition to its guerrille work, the

deparemont, "ithout the knowledge of the Communist Parties or

groups with

which it cooperates, recruits aud arrangey training

to collect information

In the taruct countries.

didates for such intelligence agents are guerrilla warfare

or persons proposed by the operational support depart

(NO Department and the BC Section of the SI Departmen't

see below).

The Li Depirtment is divided into three sections.

one support

and

administrative, the other two goographical with country

desks.

a. Contral Processing Sect A (rant head metrati

Rafaul (1nu), pseudonym

"Alberto,

the administrative

office for the IN Dopartment and the only office in the DGI

handling travel arrangements.

It plans and arranges travel

for DGI staff officers of all departments, agents, and

trainees.

furnishes opcrational funds for travel,

and makes

the netual travel reservations and provides plane tickets

for travolers.

It also obtains passports in false names for

Cuhan staff members, issues Cuban passports in false names

to agents, and obtains visas from the Czechoslovakian Embassy.

In agent travel. it works closely with the Cuban Institute

of Friendship with Peoples (Instituto Cubano del Amistad con

los Puoblos - ICAP), which arranges

sale aspects of travel

for trainees.

The section chief has his otfice In the LN

Department but works mainly from the DGI headquarters in M

Building; his wife. Elva (Inu), pseudonym "Elisa," 18 a

in the LN Department.

The section staff consists of

administration chief Eulogio PONS,

pseudonym "Eloy"; his

assistant, pseudonym

"Henry";. an

office clork, Carmen

CARRACEDO I RAUL.

proudonym "Mercedes"; two drivers,

Juan PEREZ,

"Manuel": and Felix Rafael's

secretary, pseudonym

"and assistant, Draco or Drague

ESCALANTE,

pseudonym "Ciro.

b.

Section (Secelon Contral) is supervised by

Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, who is head of the Department of

Services (S1) and acts as advisor to the entire

LN Department. The section organizes and directs guerrilla

activitles in the Central American and Caribbean countries.

Its case officers trequently trave! to their operational areas

to direct activities and arrange for funds, arns supplies,

and other support to agents; agent meetings are often hold

in a third country, especially Mexico.

Operations are handled

or a cast basis, each case being a separate project starting

with selectton and training of agents and continuing through

guerrilla warfare action in

the target area.

The section

has the following

Costa Rica, headed by Oscar GARCIA Manzano, pseudonym

"Orlando."

SECRET

NO WORN DISSEM

---

## Page 10

4-00000

c.

(2)

NO FORN DISSEN

-9 -

(S-311/ 00115-64

Dominican Republie, headed by Robirto Lazaro

SANTIESTERAY Casanova, pseudonym "Rafach,

" who was

formerly at the United Nations In New York and was

arrested

for attempting sabotage.

"Lorenzo."

As noted above, the Guatemalan operations

are considored among the most successful in Central

America.

(4)

Ha1t1, headed by Andres ARMONA Ramos, pseudonym "Ernesto,"

loimerly commercial attaché la doxico but not likely to

receive another field assignment becauso of problems

during his service there.

(5) Honduras, headed bj Felix SUAREZ, pseudonym "Santlesteban."

(6) Nicaragua.

(7) Panama, headed by Fernando RAVELO, pseudonym "Fermin."

(8) El Salvador.

South America Section (Seccion Sur') has no regular chief, but

the GI deputy,

CHAIN, directs its activitios.

It deals with

guerrilla

activities in South American countries. There are

lesks for:

(1) Argentina, headed by Oreste VALERA.

(2) British Guiana, headed by ((nu) GINES, pseudonym "Gil,"

assisted by two apprentices, pseudonyms "Jorge" and

"Rudy."

(3) Colombia, headed by Raul VIERA Linares, pseudonym "Gomez,"

formerly

stationed in Bolivia, from which he returned

at the

end of 1963,

but unlikely to reccive another for

eign assignment because of difficultles in the field.

(4)

(5)

(6)

Ecuador, headed by pseudonym "Jullo."

Paraguay, headed by pseudonym "Salvano."

Pcru,

headed by (fnu) JOA, pseudonym "Jordan," assisted

by an apprentice, pseudonym "Bernabe."

(7)

covery of documents from a plane crash in Peru, which

led to his expulsion from Chile.

His assistants are

Benito (lau), pseudonym "Sawl" lad pseudonym "Gary";

ils secretary is pseudonyn

The DGI considers

Its Venezuelan operations the must successful in Souti

America.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

SO FORN DISSEM

-10.0

CS-311/00115-64

21.

22.

23.

Operational Support Departments.

The operational support departments of the DGI are Technical

Oporational Support (NI). Illugal Centers

(MO). Special Schools

(FE), and Information Services (SI).

They handle such functions

as spotting prospective agents, providing operational information,

tratning both Intelligence agents and guerrillas, providing clan.

destine communeatluns between hendquersuppled gents in tha

field, procuring opcrational funds

The Department of Illegal Centers (Departamento Centros. legales'-

Its name ImpIles, concerned with

operation of Illegal field stations. but is an information col

lection and agent candidate spotting department.

mor responsibilitles:, collection of information from forelanere

visiting Cuba; assessment of visiting foreigners for candidates

for intelligence agents; and screening of letters from abroad

volunteering

Information, both to extract any useful data and to

assess the wilters as possible candidates for intelligence use.

• Among visiting foreigners, the MO Department does not concern it

self with diplomats, they are left to the DSE; nor with foreigners

who are establishod residents of Cuba. who are the responsibility

of the Colonial Bureau (see below).

In debriefing foreign vis

tors, the department often works through ICAP, which makes arrange

ments for many visits to. Cuba; in many instances,

supply information unwittingly and are never aware that they are

in contact with Cuban

Intelligence.

The NO Department does not

Itself recruit agents; it only

for, sorcens, and evaluates

foreign contacts as agent candidates.

al the persons it selcete

Conmunist Party or leftist organization, they

nre referred to the LN Dupartment; if they are not mombers of

such groups,

they are referred to the Illegal Department; one

of those two units does the actual recruiting.

The Department of Spocial Schools (Departamento Escuclas

Especiles - EL).

This department is responsible for training

In guerrilla warfare and related subjects.

It is headed by Luis

PIREZ, pseudonym "Bruno Diaz," who is a DGI officer but also a

captain in

the Cuban Army.

he has a deputy, pseudonym

"Aristides"; an

office assistant, pseudonym

"Armando"; and a

"Garcii."

The department staff, numbering

of Cuban Army personnel on

Indefinite assignment to the DGI; they are directed by the DGI

but continue

which also provides all sup-

port for the dupartment.

The main office of the EE Department,

which is mainly administrative,

is a residence at 178th Street

and and 31st Avenue, telephones 21-8426 and 21-8262, in the

Brandilla section of the Marianao suburb of labana.

Training

is conducted at pormanent school sites in Habana (none outside).

western part of the San Agustin section, and one

bounded by 214th and 226th Streets and 7th and 15th Avenues in

the Biltmore section.

In addition there are technical training

schools

(Escuelas Entrenaniento Tecnico) on East Street between

Parque and 37th Streets In the Alturas del Vodado section of

Ha bana,

where Venezuclans and Salvadorans have been trained,

and on

26th Street between Ist and 3rd Avenues in the Miramar

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

## Page 12

NO FORS DISSEM

15-311 00115-01

24..

25.

The schools give mildtary courses of all types. lasting

ads months, dependina on the subject matter: all instruc

tors are Culan Army personnel.

are trained in the

schools, only foreigners: these are kept separate ly nationality.

During training. studonts are

observed and assessed for possible

intellikence agents: those

individual training from the MI

Department.

The Department of Technical Operational Support (Va. (It has

no Spanish title, only al. This dopartment is lisically re

sponstble for trainins indavidual intelligence agents and pro-

riding them technical operational support such as clandestine

communtentions systems. false documents, ete.: it also provides

technient support to DGI staff members.

The department chief is

•Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, pseudonym "Rene.

" who was formerls the sec

retary of Ramire VALDES.

There are about 80 employees. including

a main office staff consisting of a secretary, pseudonym "Nayra";

two assistants, pseudonyms

"Carmen" and

"Maria Anconin"; and an

administrative

"Victor."

The NI Degartment

receives requests for training or support from the operational

departments; gtves the training or provides or arranges for the

support outside the operational department framerork; and con

tinues

to process technical communications for the departments

after

the agents

have gone

into the field.

I nothing to do with the direction of agents; it is only a training

and support mechanism.' The No Department also does not supply

equipment, for example, for clandestine radio communication,

but tells agents what to procure and lets them make their own

purchases

In their home countries with funds supplied by the

operational department directing them.

department of the DGl. MI has most of

nical cquipment, which it services and repairs in its own es-

tablishment, the buildings within the M Building compound.

kinds of professlonal technicians

avallable for such dutles: they are all Cubans.

The MI Department has five sections, with the following

responsibilities:

3 .

Chemical Laboratory (Laboratorio Quimico - LQ). LQ, which

headed by pseudonym

"Contreras,

provides chemical

wiltink systems and

any other type of conmunications

or opcrational support requiring chemical action or analysis.

Although it supplies

agents the systems or devices, it does

not train agents, but forwards the material to the training

sertion, which then instructs the agent.

La also services

messages in secret writing for the operational departments.

b. Photugraphic Laboratory (Laboratorio Fotografico - LF). LF

is headed by pseudonym

"Medina" and has a photographer,

pseudonym "Boltran."

It takes photographs for operational

documents such as false passports and identity cards and

repares both photographs and pages of documents where changes

ars needed.

In addition, it provides microdot and microfilm

systems tor clandestine communications and processes in-

coming and outgoing microdot and microtilm messages.

C.

Technical Training Section (Seccion Tecnica - ST). The chief,

who is also an instructor. is pseudonym "Teabaldo," The

SECRET

NO FORY DISSEM

---

## Page 13

26.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

- 12 -

CS-311/00115-64

person an charge of radio training, also a radio instructor,

is pseudonym

is responsible for

training agents in any technical field, such as communica

ilon li scuici mistion, miciodul or miclofalm, radio sending

and receiving, codes. ote.

The section has a

training radio

station but does not handle actual radio communications to

and from agents in the field.

d. Travel and Passport Section (Vial foRS,porte).

The section

has only one officer, pseudonym

who provides travel

and other documents

for all personnel of the directorate,

agents and staff, such as extra Cuban passports, forged pass-

ports of other countries, other identification documents,

and other necessary papors.

He makes false entries in pass-

ports. such as arrival and

departure stamps for points out

side Cuba.

€.

Concealment Device Section (Seccion Embutido - EMB).

chief is pseudonym "Maceo."

The ElB Section is responsible

for providing any sort of concealment device required for

agent activities.

especially those permitting the agent to

carry with him on his travels instructions,

information, or

small objects so that they are not discovered in customs

other examination.

It also provides concealment devices

the forwarding of

microfilm or other clandestine materials.

Department of Information Services (Departamento Servicios de

Informacion

The SI Department is headed by Major Guillermo

JIMENEZ, pseudonym

"Javier," the third most important person in

(after PINEIRO and

who also directs

some of the

L Department operational activities.

The department is responsi

information and

information in every field affecting the security

It has three sections:

a ..

Operational Information Section (Sección

Informacion

Operativa - IO).

section, which has about 12 members,

collects all information necessary for placing and maintaining

an agent in a foreign country, such as the travel and identity

documents required and their dates of validity, data for

legal and illegal travel of staff personnel and agents,

maps

of infiltration and exfiltration routes for operational areas,

and up-to-date information on the general situation in each

country where the DGI operates or plans to operate.

The

operational and other departments evaluate information they

acquire and send to the IO Section of the SI Department what-

ever they think useful; the I0 Section issues no formal re-

quirements.

Most of the information comes from the Illegal

and Ly Department lo Section sometimes debriots staff members

information.

but the MS Department may also supply

returning from foreign tou's or short trips for operational

debrief agent trainees arriving in Cuba.

information or data on foreign governmentsit has one other

but it does not

function.

the publication of false information on people

and countries.

One of its members

is a translator, Antonto

CARCEDO Ferrer, pseudonym "Andres."

b.

fOl Section.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

## Page 14

27.

SECRET

NO FORS DISSEY

- 13 -

CS-311/00115-64

residents in Cuba as potential agent candidates: like the

NO Department, it does not recruit agents itself but merely

refers them to the proper operational department.

veillance of foreigners

in Cuba and observation and penetra-

tica of hostile groups is not part of the BC responsibility,

but is a function of the DSE.

c.

The Map Section (Seccion Cartografia!.

with about 10 members,

it collects and maintains maps of all areas in which the DGI

has an interest, including country maps, town plans, and

special regional naps.

General Administration Department.

The General Administration Department (Departamento Administra-

cion General) is headed by pseudonym

of 15 to 20 persons, including pseudonym "Sergio."

administration of all aspects of the DGI except staff personnel

which are the responsibiiity of the Personnel and Iu

spection Departments: The department aiso controls workshops

or the maintenance and repair of DGI equipment, principall

ebicles: it does not work on the machines used bi the technica

which attend to their own maintenance and servicing.

In addition to its overall administration office, the department

has sir sections,

one for each of the departments except EE: MI,

LN, and SI, to take care of their administration.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEN

---

## Page 15

WAIT IN IOTAN

TART ATATIA GA

DANCE At EA

:

SE-C-R-E"T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

• 14 .

ORCANIZATION U8 THE GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF INTELLICENCE

(DIRECCION GENERAL DE INTELIGESCIA • DOI>

DEM IPLORARY BATTERS

candlanca

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311/00115-64

Гранда виненвіа,

220223

---

## Page 16

0991s tene

S-E-CR-ET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 14 .

ONCARILATIUN CO TIR CRUSHA LIESOSCHATE SD INTZLLIGENCZ

(DIRESCICN CESTFAL IN INTELIFENCIA - DORS

CS-311/00115-64

1100 1 6

con Rea 7 2000

…"' 79717705

records meare

solata cartamin

12m, 120: 257068 1:40

яка пі

1009, 29 MA

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 17

14-00009

SEORET

NO FORI DESSEM

-15c

CS-311/00115-64

0F 7.2

CHIL LIRUCTORATS CO LTELIIGENE

(ERECCIOT GENERAL DE INTEILIGENGIR - AGI)

Locatai la tua Larrazabal Sectior, l'ariazao, Habras

85ch Street

Yein Entranco (Fieriod )

C000D0

Crass

M Euilding

IGI HOS

518€ AVENUE

D000500

6

00000

Parking

*lot

L9th AVENUE

C2ass

Irees

Oooooode

78th Stroot

1a0000000

Fear Ertrance (kept locced ) Ahall

LESEND

GUARD HOUSE AD LORATORY.

PERSONEL D'D INSTECTICH DEPARTIENTS

PROCOCRAFKEO LABORATORY (LE SECTION CS KI)

CLO-HING STORAGE HAREHOUSE

FOOD STORiOS HAREHOUSS

EY3, CONCEALIDIT DEVICE SECTION OF MI.

¿'I DEPARTENE ( ALL SECTIONS BUT LE AD 2N3).

SECEST

NO FORN DISSEM

---

## Page 18

NO FORD DISSEM

- 16 ..

CS-311/00115-64

d.

2.

3.

Headguarters_ Comments

The DGI was

probably establi-hed in the gonoral reorganization

of Cuban intolligonce sorriees

begun with the establishment of

the Xinistry of Interior in

dune 196l and continued for severnl

calde and tuban Intelligence agencies

were put under the new civilian ministry, and the former G-2

overall intelligence organization. which was ander milttary con

trol. also was civilianized as the Department of State Sccurity

The Internal and external intelligunce services were ap

parertly separated at that time: previously they had both been

handled by G-2.

Öther aspects

of the DGI such as operations will be discussed

in subsequent reports.

Ramiro VALDES has been head of Cuhen Intelligence since 1959;

before June 1961 he was head of G-2.

but with the

ostablishment

of the Ministry of Interior he was appointed minister.

•continued to devote special attention to intelligence activitles

4.

PINcIno is an experienced intelligence officers associated with

cuban forion intelliyence since 1959.

5. This number is not listed in the dabana 1962 tolephone directory.

6.

DGI officers are normally known by pseudonyms rather than true

As a result, source know many of his colleagues only

pseudonym and never heard their true names.

Montoto, a section chief in the Illegal Department, is known by

true name and apparently does not have a pseudonym, and PINEIRO

1s known by

true name.

7.

CHAIN is probabl; Army Captain Chrlos Sixt' CHAIN Scler, an intel-

ligence ofticer

who served in Washington, D.C., as a member of

the Culan Mission to the Organization of

American States in 1961

and carly 1962; the mission was withdrawn in carly 1962.

8.

Source had no information about Soviet operations in Latin

America.

9.

10.

The Soriet Bloe countries with which Cuba maintains relations

Burope: Albanda, UH5.'. Crochoslovakia, Bast Germany, Hungary,

the USSk, and Yugoslavia.

Asia: Connunist China. Nongolia, North Korea, and North Vietnam.

The non-Bloc countries with which Cuba maintains diplomatic rela-

tions are:

Europe:

the Netherlands, Norway,

There are also. Cuban missions to the Vatican

and to the United Nations European Office in Geneva.

Asia:

Ceylon, India, Indonesia. Irag, Israol, Japan, Lebanon,

and Pakistan.

Africa:

Algeria, Ghana.

Guinea. Vali, Morocco, Tanganjika, and

the United

Arab Republic.

SECRET

NO FORY DISSEN

---

## Page 19

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

- 17 .

CS-311/00115-64

North America: Canada.

United Nations

There 1s also n Cubin Mission to the

in New York.

Central America and Caribbean: Mexico and Jamaica.

South America:

Bolivia, Chile, Uruguay. and British Gulana

which had maintained

relations with Cuba until mid-day 1964, broke

them following the ousting of GOULART and the

change of government in April 1964.

11.

The only regular air connection between Cuba and the Western

Hemisphere

is the schedule maintained by the official Cuban a1r

1inc, Cubana (Empresa Consolidada Cubana de Aviacion - ECCA),

or three times a week to Mexico.

There are also charter

flights to Canada, but they are principally for cargo.

12.

Agent activities in Latin America will be discussed in subse-

quent reports.

13.

Source knew almost nothing about operations in Puerto. Rico,

Canada, and at the Cuban Mission to the United Nations In New

York.

14.

Relationg between Cuba and Peru were broken in 1960.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

