# 104-10123-10409

## Page 1

104-10123-10409

FILE

SECRET

(When Filled In)

RÈQUEST FOR TRAINING AT NON-CIA FACILITY

(Forward

original

and 2 copies to OTR; 4th copy

for retention)

TO: Director of Training

1. NAME (First, Middle, Last)

ATTN: Registrar

2. GRADE

3.

AGE

₫L 52049

NOTE: See HR 18-8.

For professional full-time instruc-

tion, attach separate sheet showing

academic background and profession.:

al experience.

SEX

5. TITLE

MALE

1^33

•MeGard

- 053124"

C9-151

1024

6. LENGTH OF CIA SERVICE

7. OFFICE: OR STAFF: 105

Angus:

1951;

Office of Security

Chief,

Technical Division

EXTENSION

2533

10.

NAME AND

LOCATION

OF NON-CIA

FACILITY

American University

8.. DIVISION

Technical

81. INCLUSIVE DATES OF TRAINING

Evenings

2 Feb - 5. June 66.

Washingtor

12. TITLE AND BRIEF. DESCRIPTION: OF COURSE (5) TO BE

Seminar in Science and Technology in Government, Course No: 53 7IN (3 credit

hours) Thid is alaurvey course and wal cover the various scientufic brograms;

SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES AND LEVEL OF PROFICIENCY TO BE ATTAINED (Relate

This course will be of value to the Technical Division personnei being enrolied

un poording an insigh into these varioua programs and deterining the ways

in which their technology can be applied io periorming our mission more

effectively

IF REQUESTED TRAINING INCLUDES LANGUAGE TRAINING. SUMMARIZE

PREVIOUS

LANGUAGE TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE (Dates

and

places)

N/A

15.

$

ESTIMATED EXPENSES (CONSUTE OTR for details)

REQUESTED TRAINING INCLUDED

IN

OFFICE'S ESTIMATE OF EXTERNAL TRAIN

ING

REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROPRIATE:

FISCAL

YEAR?

OTHER

$

TOTAL

17.

REQUESTER PAID. FROM

VOUCHERED

$138.00//1

18...

YES 'i

REQUESTER HAS COVER

LENTYES" SPECIFY

U.S. Army Scientific X

CONFIDENTIAL

FUNDS

NO

Liaison Advisory Grou

20. | INTEND TO MAKE CIA A CAREER:

..IF RE-T

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING. INDIVIDUAI

QUIRED | WILL SIGN A TRAINING. AGREEMENT

19. REQUIRES COVER

YES.

NO

DATE •

me3

2:. CAREER SERVICE BOARD APPROVAL OF THIS RE-

SiGNATURE

DATE

CUEST

Howard J.

Osbor.

SIGNATURE OF OFFICE CHIEF

22.. THE REQUESTED TRAINING IS CONSIDERED TO

BE

IN CONSONANCE WITH THE GOVERNMENT EM-

PLOYEES TRAINING ACT

amal P. Gaisera

23.

CCD CONCURRENCE (Only if item 18 or 19

ig

affirmative)

24. OTR APPROVAL

storaTore or sometion or

DATE

1/15/166

DATE

Abilee

FORM

11-62

136

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS.

SECRET

inded on.

(45)

VAV

---

