# 104-10172-10081

## Page 1

104-10172-10081

SECHET

dismir, Eldest

M0/326

12 December 1960.

Dear Clovo,]

CURA

In my M0/1269 of 16th November, I mentioned the

PERNANDEZ opposition group. I have now received a furtber

more detalled report on this group, and as it may be of

Intorest to you, I attach a cop y

No have no information on the identitles of the rioh

American businessan said to be financing the group.

Yours sincerely,

03

Dr. Giovaland Co Grea

TRACHE

SEGAS i

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Здро

---

## Page 2

14-00000

soon.

SiN:

• set to see a de e

C= 0=P=Y

The Cabar Inel-Castro Guerilla Digenisation of Alberte

FERALDOU

1,

AILaNtO PEONANDEZ tha PRE ME MOS FARIANDEZ Casas, the

wealthy land owner who raised three million dollars for Fidel

CASTRO's cause before the overthrow of BATISTA, and who vas, until

recently, the boad of the Instituto de la Asucer (Sugar Institute),

has set up a guerilla organisation of 400 or his ex-employees ingide

Cuba, This organisation bas the backing of rich Anerican businesmen,

and 1t 1s FERNANDEZ'a intention to expand this force and leep 1t vell

supplied with money, arms and ammunition with which to carry out aota

of sabotage.

2.

TESTANDEZ bag asked the following three persons to help hims

(1)

Eduardo FERFER, the former Inspecto: General af the Cuban

Ats Force, who left Cuba In July 1960.

(2) Teddy WHITEHOUSE, a pilot of Britial extraction, who

earlier In 1960 vas responsible for setting fire to

sugar cropa frot the aire

(3) Geoffrey ROBERES of Butler, Roberta Associates, Ine. Who

wag RoCol, 's representative in HAVANA and who was in

obargo of all ulcrovare and adraly Instellations of R.C. t.

until he bad to leave the country. He has provided

FERNANDEZ's orgaulsation with all fregieneles of Si band

oquimont and microwave equipment nasd by the Cuben

Goverment and they are nor able to Intercept mesaages sent

out on these channels.

The organisation has tue 40ft. notor cruisers and is about

to pursbase tro more. These craft will te used as mother shipe

---

## Page 3

?.

C Ba P-Y

-2-

for supplying equipaent to Cuban anti Castro guerillas and 1t 1a

planned to work then fron British cays off the Gulen coast. They

are to be supplied by light aircraft which can land on these cays,

eded boat will have a fast hydroplane for delivering supples to

the interfor.

So. At the roquest of the Fronte Revoluctorarlo Denocrat1o0

(F.E.D. - Revolutionary Democratle Front) FERNANDEZ's organisation

recently brought TEJERA (fnu) fran Cube by bast to the United States.

Apparently TEJEPA had been a close Intimate of Fidel CASTRO, the

Cuban Prima Minister, and was brougit out of "ube at the requeat of

• Unlted States Govermont.

5.."

Alberto FERNANDEZ has been asked by Mazuel Antonio. (Tony)

VARORA of the PaRaD, to take over the Oriento Provinco for the Pof.D.

when that organisation makes 1ts planned Invasion of Cuba.

---

