ros-t0219-10021

YH/COS: §=364-74
10 January 1974

HEHORANDUN FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBJECT 2 Salvatore Giancana and Richard Catn”

REFERENCE 2 Chicago Tribune Articles of 23 and 37
: : leceaber

- 1. A routine name check was conducted on Salvatore
Giancana with negative results. A check was then nade with
the Office of Security to daternine whether their records
reflected that one Salvatore Siancana was evar employed by
CIA as alleged in the referenced Chicago Tribune article of
31 December 1973. We were advised that any inquiries con=
cerning this matter should be made to Hr. Brecklnridge,
Beputy Inspactor General, I/COG touched base with Hr.
Breckinridge who said that he had received a copy of the
referenced article. ae -

2. We have developed the following information on -
Richard Cain, subject of the referenced 23 December 1973
Chicago Tribune article. Richard S. Cain was born in Chicago,

nois in October 1931. He dropped out of the first year
of high school in 1987 and enlistad in the U. S. Aray where
he served until discharged in 1550. Following his army service
he was associated with Investigative enterprises in Niam? and
Chicago. In 1956 he entered the Chicago Police Dapartaent
{Vice Squad) where he remained until 1950. Concurrent with
that employment he operated the Accurate Laboratories, a private
investigative businass. Listed below is a chronology of Cla ,
contacts with Cain: i
A, Fall of 1960 - Cain initiated contact
with the DCD Chicago Field Office and vol-
untarily provided information on the activ-
ities of Cuban exile groups in the Chicago

area. : i.
E2 INPDET i ease Withivg Guillen
CL BY: 054555 Spr Can & Z7cy
- ane Filer


B. June 1961 - Cain contacted Hr. Lohmann, i Hy
of the Chicago Field Office, to report an
approach nade to his by a tir. Kroupansky
who reportedly was negotfating with the
President of Panama to investigate coanunfsm
in Panawa. Cain was to assist Kroupansky in H
this endeavor. :

C, Summer of 1951 - Cain was met in ‘lexico
City by a CIA staffer, identity unknown, °
purpose unknown.

D. October 1961 ~ Cain wrote to Hr. Lohmann
from Panaza. He reported on his findings of
attitudes toward the U. S. in certain Central?

* Amarican countries and offered his services to
tha Agency.

£. April 1962 - Cain sade an unannounced visit

: to Agency representatives Ninston Scott and H
i . it all Hin Hexico City and informed thes vi :
i i OF an Investigative agency he had in Rextca ;

(with branches in Chicago and Los Angeles) which

he used to provide police training to Hexican

Government agents. Cain could provide no proof

of U. S. citizenship. He was told by Hessrs. i

Scott and that the U. S. Aabassador did not : |
I
‘

approve o fcan citizens becoming involved
in Hexican politics.

i

|

|

| F. 4 dune 1962 - Cain was deported from Nexico
H fa for carrying a Toaded revolver and brass knuckles,
1 inpersonating a Mexican Government official. and
i violating his tourist permit by working.

: : 6. 19 August 1953 = Cain was net et the Lake

i Shore Drive Athletic Club and Adolphs Club in

i Chicago, Illinois by YH Diviston staff officer,
i and the Chie? of the Chicago DCO

‘ ta. The contact report states that ia the

i distant future Cain vould Tike to work cverseas,

{ possibly with CIA. It was pointed out to Cain

7 a that his current cooperation with CIA aight be
of benefit to him should he apply for employnent
with CIA in the future. At this tine Cain worked



~3-

for the Cook County Sheriff's office. Re
also was in contact with Cubans in the Chicago
area who were involved in ventures yhich vere
not completely legal. Cain was told of Agency
requirenents tn general, and agreed to assist
the Agency by providing inforzation on undere
cover activities of the Cubans, especially
Paulino Sterra and his contacts, providing
Manes of any Cubans who night ba us27u? to
CIA, and noting in particular runors of any
CIA contacts fn the Chicago area.

He 26 and 30 August 1963 - Information froa_
Cain to the DCD Chicago Office was passed to

the Cuba Desk at Headquarters. The 26 August.
information concerned the Student Directory, a
Cuban exile group located in Miaai, Florida.

The 30 August Inforaationrreported Hiro Cordozo's
interest in purchasing arns, atte

T._ 11 September 1963 requested
a PCSA/CSA on Cain but there ts no ndication
it was ever granted,

3. 12 September 1963 - Cain reported to the
Chicago Field O??ice information on persons
claining to be representatives of the DRE -
Directorio Revoluctonario Estudiantil - who
purchased arns for t DRE. Cain planned.

another meeting wit eged DRE rep-
resentatives, via DCD Washington
and DCD Chicago;-gor-yora-to Cain to “get out

of the picture’ as soon as possible and to nake
no conmitnents. :

K. 1967 - The Office of Security files show
that the FBI in 1957 initiated an investigation
on Cain because of alleged Nafia connections.
For this reason the FBI recoananded that CIA
terminate its association with Cain. :

L, 15 April 3972 - Cain returned to Chicago froz
Hexico City, then disappeared about 7 Hay 1972

-3-

=,

ml



“4- !

Sete saying he was going to Latin Anerica. !
{ Cain allegedly was involved tn illegal
: See international arms deals end on various

occasions stated he w3s working for CIA.

H. 16 Hay 1972 - An FBI agent in Hexico
City asked Mexico City Station for traces
on Cain. According to the Fel an Eastern
Airlines pilot had identified Cain as the
skyjacker who forced him to fly to Honduras
on 5 Hay 3972. ¢ :

3. There is no indication that a clearance was ever
granted for the use of Cain by the Agency or that he recetvad
any compensation from the Agency. We have been unable to
bre ilk Cain’s claim that he worked for the OSS during

figsenaes 4 Id.

Orville Bathe
c/¥ascos

~- Distribution: i : : :
Orig & 1 ~ Addressee 7 :
1 - COG Chrono
1. aos
. - Originator
“= off’ of Sec. L. Hove
1 - 201-323871

DDO/WH/COG/OS:CHopkins:rb (typed 10 Jan. 74)

