# 104-10179-10158

## Page 1

104-10179-10158

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce,

• d*

SECRET

- 0+7-2 07580

ad hast.

5554955 1955

TDCS 23-3/639.535

C1/OPS, CI/IC, FI, F1/D, FI/INT 6, IN, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS, WE 4, WH 6

12 February 1964

JISAS/SL 1 KA/PACT 11 XE/5/5 15

SAS/E08-2' SAS/SOLUH L

SES OB 11

REQUISTIO!

STATE

AltiT

PATY

MANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

P80:l

LX-786

NP (AMCHUB-1)

Liaison #

CONTROLLED DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHUNTICATINE OFFICER

COOKCINATING OFFICIENN

AS/EDE

SECRET

19:00

MOUR REVIDES SUPPEN

---

## Page 2

*note dant a to me an a

erebel iNn: 0860616918

COURT Si"

DATO 9 FEBRUARY 1954

iNFO

TOES 18-8 639.539

DISTO 12 FEDRLARY 1964

- SUBICT

PLANS OF THE JUSTA REVOLUTIUNARY CLINTA (UNE)

TO LAID EXPEDITIOYS IN CUBA BEFURE LND OF MARCH

4964

PLACEA

DATACO 10 FEBRUARY 1964

SOURCE

REF

FIELD REPORT NO.

APACAISAL AY AVERICAN ENGINEER WHO LIVED IN CUBA AND LEFT THERE IN 1962,

WHO HAS CONTACTS IN JURE.

1. THE JUNTA REVOLUTIONARY CUBANA (JURE, CUBAS REVOLUTIONARY

JUNTA) IS PREPARING TO LAND ONE OR TWO EXPEDITIONS IN CUBA

BEFORE THE END OF MARCH 1964 AND. JOIN THE MANY FORCES THAT ARE

DISCONTENTED IS THE CUBAN MILITIA, MANUEL RAY, LEADER OF JURS,

IS PLANNING TO LEAD ONE OF THE GROUPS HISSELF.

2.. RAY THINKS HIS CHANCES OF SUCCESS ARE EXCELLENT AT THIS

TIME. THERE IS A GREAT DEAL OF SABOTAGE GOING ON IN CUBA,

ESPECIALLY IN THE EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTPY, BECAUSE CUBANS

RESENT FIDEL CASTRO'S COMPLETE SELL-OUT TO THE RUSSIANS. RAY

BELIEVES THAT IT WILL TAKE TIME, ALTHOUGH HE IS NOT OVER-

OPTIMISTIC. RAY HAS SAID THAT THE CUBANS PUT CASTRO IN AND IT

IS UP TO THEM TO GET HIN OUT. THROUGE ITS VARIOUS AGENCIES,

CONFIDENTIAL

AlAV/ACS

CONTROLLED DISSE

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

009.0 LAn 179544

1xs 04-3 060.533

BE'RE 8S GETTING NEEP FROM TUS SALE DI BUNDS IN THE UNITED STATES.

IT DAS SAID THAT S98 MILL BUY A RIFLE: AOR A CUBAN SOLDIER. (SOURCE

COUSENT: JURE SEINS TO MANT TO GO IT ALONE, WITHOUT ANY OUTSIDE

INTERFERESCE.)

3. RAY IS A VERY CAPABLE MAY. HE HAS EXTENSIVE PLANS FOR

THE CARRYING OUT OF AGRARIAN REFORMS, WHICH WOULD NOT MAKE HIM

POPULAR WITH TIE MORE CONSERVATIVE ELEMENTS, BUT HE IS EXTREMELY

ASTI-COMMUNIST IN HIS VIETS.

4. JUAN (GUANCHI) MELENDEZ, AN ENGINEER, WHO WAS RAY'S

MAN IN CUBA AND RAN THE NATIONAL COMXISSION OF AQUEDUCTS AND

SENERS (CONACA), IS ONE OF RAY'S PRINCIPAL LIEUTENANTS.

MELENDEZ PLANS TO GO TO CUBA AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

5. FIELD DISSEM:

CINCLANT, CINCSO.

END OF MESSAGE

Wit tensEs

128

CLASSERAC

CONTDENTIAL

ROLLLD DISSEM

CONTANATION DE IDES ASDRMATION RIPORT

---

