# 104-10433-10008

## Page 1

104-10433-10008

33-537

23 November 1963

Disposition - This document was denied. The document is a memo

which recites the speculative thinking of an Agency officeir on the assassination

of President Kennedy. The paper deals with a possible explanation of the

assassination. He treats the problem experimentally with a thesis which is

not born out by facts available then or later developed. The thinking

expressed was imaginative but not definitive.. No decision was based

this paper:" It appears clearly to be the type of documents contemplated for

exemption under subsection (b) (5). The document also relates information

received from all

service. It contains information fron and

about a sensitive source. The document also identifies Agency officers anç

• components anil coateins internal Agency fling instructions. This denia!

was made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b) (2), (b) (3) and

(b) (5) .

---

## Page 2

13-00000

p.321

(5x-25598

To :

Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

FrOm:

Chier, (ER/cI)

Subject: Caple ProCate?, SR Division, re Possible KOB role ja Kennedy

Slaying

1.

The following 1s the text of a cable from Chief, SR Division,

sent

vIa closed channel from Frenkfurt at 23162) on 23 Novenber, for the attention

01 IT. Angleton?)

"I. I desire that you consider these reactions to the Kennedy

assassination:

Within minutes of the first news, Moscow radio statements

as heard in London attributed the assassination to "right

wing elements." Only as the true identity of the belleved

assassin became known did Moscow begin to complain that

U.S. reactionaries were using Oswald as a pawn.

SINOUS

b. Should not the assignment of 13ch Dept. officers to the KGB

residency in the United Nations in New York be considered

c. I aiscovered from Asthur Vertis

during our long

and exceptionally valuable discussions, that one of Harold

Wilson's principal seientific advisors is Captain Ian Maxwell,

who has & long Sovlet Intelligence background.

Tols may

shed new light on AFLADLE's report Li.e., that Harold Wilson

may be & Soviet agent?

2. Putting it baldly, was Oswald, unvittingly or vittingly, part of

& plot to murder President Kennedy In Dallas as an attempt to

further exacerbate sectional strife and render tie U.S. Government

less capable of dealing with Soviet Initiatives over the next

year? I! AFLADIT's views on Wilson and the information noted in

paragraph lc above have any substance (and they cannot be ignored)

this suggests that we can expect major Soviet pressures over the

next several months, for which the sovlets have made careful,

Jong-range preparations."

The above reference to 13th Dept. officers in New York refers to the

presence, reported by an FBI penetration of the KGB locally, In New York or

Washington of one or two known officers of the 13th Department of the lat Chief

Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of the KGB.

This department 1s charged with

"Iiquid sifairs," sabotage and assassination.

One of the 13th Destr nIcers

33

Document Number

-537

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 1975

for FOLA Review on APR 1976

RECORD: COPY

E/8 IMPPET CL BY 012208.

23 no 63

(201-289248)

---

## Page 3

13-00000

oy the way, met clandestinely with a Soviet "exchange student" from &

Pennsylvanis university during the school year 1902-63, which suggests that

the Sovlet student is also a 13th Dept. Officer or agent. Perhaps

s1gn1f1cantly, his course of studies was in food chemistry!

3. You will note that Mr. Murphy's comments come without benefit of

he traces we passed to you earlier today, showing that Oswald had contact

ith a 13th Dept. representative in Mexico City®

4. (Another recently-arrived cable, being sent to the Director tonight,

own visa to the USSR and Cuba (in transit) and may, therefore, have been

really rather than ostensibly innocent.

---

