# 104-10217-10215

## Page 1

104-10217-10215

175710

SECRET

-

c5c1-31615-638-65

18.:. 1255

Di rector

loderd turma of Investlestla

#tentlon: M. 8. d. Pande

THON & Deputy Direstor for Plaa

For SUISCIO OJASON, Rechard

TE:5

1. A really Fellate bana did to balis

suary of bla coaversation.

a London la sata December, 190 bu

iNchad Guy Free lance rifter, fornar Chalinan of the Tal

Play for Cura Camittee and Luthas edlior al the Engilsa odillon

of Revolution. GLadll, & very light allored Anerson Degro

sarried to an Balladsionas, vac vorting la the Columbls Brousersto

dag agates (CES) sevaro hen along sius anther colongue, lubert

CaBiTO Mus and aroRato luenura seren, and various other Cubas

offielale.

791-467961

8. Alchard dISoll stated that de ler quite vell Rovert

'll s, the Aberican legro fron Monroe, Morth Curalina, vha ha

mented to tube and nou seems to camarie Detres there sad Pelalas.

colas.

Jo Aecordiaz to dIBool, he fall that the situation anong Aber

Lens negroes (Iran vast he could tall la Europe) vas becoalag very

dangeron. He sald that he had set la both London ast Maris quire a

ten young Aparisa negroes la their ¿ale team pasalas ibrouet em

route to fract, Crochoslovadin or labana, CubA for merrilla and

sabotage trelning. be lurther sold he ind lay feeding ina, vitals

alx maths 1o & your these trainoos lould legle lathltrating incl

Into the Unstod Statos la pursuance of MIllians' leen of en urban

merrilla noreant.

Mo After he left the falr Play for Caba Coumittee, OLESOUl M

Isted that he vas rocomeded by the Algerian Antennador to the

Unitod Estduas (nane not ElTen) tO DO On ShO ALASS il introiullos

C0C7-386/00038-63.22

20: 306052

BS G0P%

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• SECRET

Arioaloe la Algiers, valch saa chen edited sy Jacques Varges.

When the digerlans renored Verges, GIllll siated tat be füllored

Verges to faris vhere ibe 1a1tor set up ãe.olutlua, Aecording to

arcal, he served an editur al lta lagulab-inaguage verslus firat

In farts ant than 1n Lilianso, Soilseriand, until a fou saLas sã0,

voon ho spill 11lh Verdes, tho silll cues him money cal soon do la

Bulail

Verses hired loved Treach bia s0:lary, doud Sood and lur-

urlou diving and spent nost of his else le palleload agitation.

the

maj:lne via la faci largely editod ly a Vielsnase da lEs alare sho

oftan vesto under ocher pserdoryns. Ma sare of ue sagazine sas

up unaold in a carrer in Parlo.

a pold Chionte agour but he vas on bad tera sita Verges.

Source Indicated that exeson seemed to be a very relaxed and

guite muorous negro intellecuel. GILiON said he had vorted for

Revolutlos Decause of his Intereats lu African and Astan Independence

movementa - had nevor considered bladell a Commiet and ald not not.

Revolutton, according to GIBSON, and many persual contaets sita trut

sorites and sheir sus cortalaly considerable trotalyite IntLuence la It.

pilaral the Revolution before 15 ins banned In that country. le

Aho 5 contamina sunrest la Cenire icoidt, a prujagand organ

reportodiy sponsored by the Chinese Communtees.

C445-326/00038-65

DDP/CA/INT

amh. (21 Jamary 1965)

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 • Department of State

CI/LSN

CI/FRA

RID/FI

AP/1/I

CA/B3

CA, INT

B:O\WIZ

SECIET CHANDED

201-306052.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

SECRET

(men filled In)

DOCUMERT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

ANALYST

O- DATE PROCESSEO

12.

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

RI FILE NO.

D. DISPAYCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

S. SOURCE CRYPTONYMIE, DATE OF INFO.

10. DISSEMINATED 1#

18. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRANSFERRED TO

DI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

DATE

EvALUATIOn

LEICH, A1S6E

201-300052

011-C01-105

DISMIS.ED MECH IRISCI DOAD CE FEVCLUTION FUBLICATION.

FILE IN6 201-306052

8 #-

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-

-306

0502

8-97

FOR 867 «**

SECRET

{• 68)

5A8

---

