# 104-10173-10166

## Page 1

104-10173-10166

FILE TUT LE/NUME /VOLU::

KING

201- 740966

KINg, MARtIN

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTONIAL UNIT/ LOCATION:

• ROON:

DELETIONS, IF AYY:

RECEIVED

RETURNE: 1)

(PRINT NNIE)

Willian A. felbs

STANATURE OF

REVIEVING OFFICIAT

22 Septzs 2z Syrig

22 v0t 10 1 50p08

louis San tent

NO NOCUMENTS MAY BE CONTEN DE BENOVED INDE THIS FILI

---

## Page 2

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCY AGENCY

DOCUMENT RECEIPT

Mori or documintis

NOTICETO REO PIENT

mi,= pond Retumios Shown on fevere Side

RODA

#1 DOI

Deputy Director for Plans

DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT (S) SENT

CANO.

DOCUMENT LATE

COPIES:

DOCUMENT UNE

CSCI 316/01703-68

DATE SIN

ATTACHMENTS

3

• CLASS

APPRISS OF RECIPIENT

Paptor

Faderal

Buronu.of

Investigator

ROom :845

Riddell

Bldg:

1730

K

streot,

N.W.:

Washligton, D.C.

ốt 615

RECIPIENT

SICNATURE (

¡OGINO RECENT OF

VE GOCUMENTSD

/ 50 no

2 MAy 1958

---

## Page 3

SECRET:

2 MAY 1383

LANORANDUN FOR:

SUBJECT

Director

Foderal Burou of Invostigation

Dr. Martin Luther KING, Jr.

elerence 19 mido to Lhis Arency's out messag

nimber 94270 datod 25 April 1968 concerning the assassi

nation of Dr. Martin Luther KING, Jr.

2

On 16 April Roderick Claflin BROWN, a Panamantan

natlonal born 1 July 1917 In British Honduras, voluntarily

appeared at the Departnent of National Investigations (DENI)

of the Republic of Panam and signed a deposition, the

highlights of which are as follows:

(1) On 36 October 1962 he served as cook/seaman

aboard the Texaco S.S. Southhampton which docked at Mobile,

Alabams:

(2): While on a shore vialt to the Mobile airport

on the morning of 26 October 196% In the company of two,

follow Panamantan seaten, he was approached by Marvin P:

LITFRELL, OwnOr Of LITTRELL Motor Co., 921-25 South Clinton

Street, Athens, Alabana, who after ascertatning BROWN was

• Pananantan seaman, asked' if he knew of Dr. Martin Luther

KING, Tr.

(3) LItTres inquired whether BROWN was interested

In omployment, the details of which vere unspecified;

He

went on to describe Dr. KING as "Our greatest problen whe

1o causing us mụch trouble."

Ho gave BROVN a business card

to use In the event he was interested in pursuing the enploy

ment offer:

(4) On 38 January 1963 BROWN rOtO LITTRELL Iron

New York City, stating he was interested in a Job and

SEURET

ting

"en)

fusion

---

## Page 4

14-00000

roquested 975 for travel fron New York City to Mobile.:

On 2 February 1963 BROWN rocelved a reply fron LITTRELl,

rostating that he had a job waiting for BROWN In Alabam,

but questioning why $75 was needed since the fare ins leas

than $40 by bus.

(3) After discuasione with a relutive and frienda

Therefore he did not respond to the LITTrill lotter and

dismised the inoident untfl the death of Dr. KINQ In

April 1968. BROWN returned to Panama in 1984.

Inclosed for your information is a copy of the

LiTTRELl lotter and the Spanish language deposition made

by BROWN, ag well as an Engllah translation of the depogition

ag: described in paragraph 2 of the referenced out message.

FOR: THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

JAMES ANGLETON

41/2

CBCI-336/01702-68

•3 Enclosurea

WH/ 2.

2. May 1968:

Distribution:

• Orig & 1 = Addressee, watts

1 - CI/RA (Dummy)

1 - CI/LIA (Duminy)

2 - CI/OPS/DO. watts w

WH/ 2.

•Based on:

6180 (IN 97566)

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

WHEN FILLED.IN

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Sect 2. on back. Detach back flap

and forward to RID:

..

Destroy liont cover aheel unless ll recorda

significant action laken or comments roguin

ing preservation®

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il fle na and tillo slown are not propor,

insort proper tile no, below, and forward

document is SID/AN.

PROPEA FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN DECTION TON BACK, I APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

148

181144 HA

3Cc to c/uH;

TO...

ROOM

NO..:

Tati

DIE.

Cluble b6

152,203

FAT KIS-CE

TE NO (11)

No 0)

# 1815

LAle/AP.

MICROMILMED

APR 15 1968

DOC. MICRO. SER

Sia i Bit

10.

15 ap. p

16 ARN 1968

- Art.

ico retaine fo wikeofite

F/01/i8 liter

RID/EDI

(108/02

$ 7:

RID/Fl

TRACE

NOSTRACT

Les redia spy into

201-760968

X==6 to 19-4-105-

11: PE

P8°°

5131

FABSTRACT

Ruelanity

19-4-105

2/7-304 - 103

DUNGAR MURDER

C

---

## Page 6

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO

• • UFGA-29884

FILE NO = NONE

DATE

- GO APRIL 1968

INDEXING

* NONE

MICROTILMED

APR 15 1968

DOC. MICRO: SIR.

MICR OF ILM

- NONE

TO

CHIEF.

WH DIVISION

INFO

- CHIEF, WH/COG - CHIEF, HOLIME

FROM

- COS, UMWAVE

SUBJECT•

O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING: JROO LAO APRIL 1968

REFERENCE - UFGA-29877.

IN ADDITION TO THE SUMMARY OF CÚBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE

MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN REFERENCE, THE

FOLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS BEEN FÜRNISHED BY THE AMOIS

OM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE ONE - JUMOBILIZATION OF 55, DOR

TROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE

DISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE

DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING

GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3A JUVITH THE ASSASSINATION OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED'" A AN

INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECIOR OF IHE

CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/• JUTHIS SIMPLY MEANS THAT

NON VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING. THE PEOPLE

CANNOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN

A VIOLENT WAR. IN VIETNAM. NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO

•JHE ELACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE

STREETS OF THIS COUNTRY."' THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA

TION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE

POSSIELE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK RE-

FLIED - JUI REPEAT THAT WE ARE MAKING NO PREDICTIONS; BUT THE

SECHET TELEPOUCH UFGA 29884 PAGE ONE

18-48-105

"zero!

---

## Page 7

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE THO

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE: IMPASSIBLY THE ASSASSI

MÀT JON

OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE:

EM: GRANA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRERO ENTI-

TLED, JUTHE AMERICAN NEGROES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF

HER OISTA

JJAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE

TODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES, AND IT IS LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW

PAGES OF HEROISY STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE

NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS

WARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING - JWHAT

HAPPENED ON THE NIGHI WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. KING

IS NOTHING CONPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN. JU

AN GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JUTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEADS

THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS.'' THE ARTICLE TELL'S ABOUT THE MARCH AND

SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT

TA RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1755 Á.M./ A JUA TENSE

CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S. BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENTS.

NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JONNSON FOR YESTERDAY; U APRIL,

MARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP

AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT:

MM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1955 A.M. A JU UFORWARD

WITH BLACK POVER UNTIL CAPITALIST MISERY, THE FUNDANENTAL CAUSE OF

HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN: SAID' THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE

IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL,

ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING:

UM

RADIO LIBERACION, I APRIL 11230 PoM. A THIS

NEWSCAST

REFERS TO A DEMONSTRATION IN WHICH ZER LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN; AND

• AFRICAN STUDENT'S WERE SAID TO MAVE PARTICIPATED IN FRONI OF THE

U.S. ENZÄSSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER THE DEATH OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING.

DISTRIEUTION

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PACE THO

---

## Page 8

SECRET TELÉPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE THRÉE

VIA TELE POUCH

3 A C/WHD

2 A C/WH/COG

2 A C/WOLIME

SECRET TELEPOUCH ÜFGA-29884 PAGE THREE

BT

---

## Page 9

3

•SECRET

2.63

ROUTING AND RECERD. SHEET

INSTRUCTION!

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Soit. 2. on back. Detach hack tap

and forward to RID.

Destroy front cover sheet, urless it recorda .

significant action taken or comments requir

ino preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il file no. and title shown are not proper,

insert proper tile no. bolow and forward

document to RID/AN.

FROPER FILE NO.

RIDIAN

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL'IN SICTION I ON. BACK. IN APPROPRIATE

K4K

NO.

....то ."

Litt REGE

DATE:

FORMANDED

15A00 1508

02

3 ccto C/NH

8.119

IRATE PRESEAN

675 1Q 18.1 41

Butta wi

thed (9)

MICROFILMED

APR 15 1968

DOC. MICRO, SER

Зале Зм

8-6 = 1cc routes:

icc.netacnes.pos.ius/coc file

16. APR 1969

23809

Cop 80

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

RIQUEST

1.4:

101-7609668

X-ref into 11-4-105.

Declassify

19-4-105

ANA:

P.5

ABSIRACT

FILE PITLE

019-004-105

14/

TAHIMANT COCEI

tint2-118-5

---

## Page 10

1d-0d0d

57°

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO

• -'UFGA-2987,7

FILE NO

• NONE

DATE

- GO APRIL 1968

INDEXING: = NONE

MiCROFILMED

APR-15.1965

DOC. MICRO-BER.

MICROFILM

• NONE

TO

CHIEF, WH DIVISION

INFO

= CHIEF, WH/COC - CHIEF, WOLICE

FROM

SUBJECT

CHIEF OF STATION, UMWAVE

D SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN

LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN

PREPARED BY THE AMOT S

A GRANA: /HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF

CUBA/, I APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE - LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,

LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE."•

Y:

LP GRANMA, I APRIL, FRONT PAGE - *TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN THE U•S• AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN

GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-

TON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4186 PERSONS ARRESTED: SNIPERS

CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN IRE U.S. THE WHITE

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD:

FULL INFORMATION

GIVEN.I

3

EM. GRANIA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - "'TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP

• BROWN."•

'MASHINGTON, I APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS - AFP,

FRENCH NEWS AGENCY AMX LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,

URGING THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF WASHINGTON. TO GO TO RICHNOND IO LISERATE

RAP BROWN. '' JUTHE LEAFLEIS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-

CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY. ''

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE -ONE

614004-105

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA -29877 PAGE TWO

GRANA, #APRIL, LAST PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED • PRINCIPAL

NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U:S."', BY JUANA CARRASCO. THE ARTICLE:

SAYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS THE

VIOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING

AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE - CONGRESS OF RACIAL

EQUALITY /CORES, STUDENT HON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/,

BLACK MUSLIMS, SLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSIONE RANGERS, THE ALERT

PATROL, REVOLUTIONÁRY ACTION MOVEMENT ARAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE

DEACONS, AND ""THE U.S."' THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS AÑE

MENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOÇATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO-

CIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED. PEOPLE INAACP/, NATIONAL

URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

/ SCL C/

ÉAT GRANMA, PAPRIL, LAST PAGE - ATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO

BLANE CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U,S.

IT GRAAMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE SARACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRÒ

AND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN..

UT GRANDA, FAPRIL, LAST PAGE

- JOTHE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE.*

LF GRANMA, & APRIL, LAST PAGE -

'MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO

STRUGGLE®""

011

RÁDIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,

6. APRIL,

LAR ALlO AND 12 NOON - THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA

OF THE SOUTM VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS

SENT A MESSAGE

TO AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER

KING: IHIS MESSAGE SAYS INAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST

• MARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS

OF THE UNITED STATES. *•

"THE MESSAGE. OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN

HAVANA ENDS BY SAYING IHAT, WITM. THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,

ALL THAT HAS BEEN ACCONPLISHED BY THE RULENS OF THE UNITED STATES

IS TO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE UP AFGO-AMERICANS,

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA - 29877 PAGE TWO

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA -29878 PAGE THREE

AND: THAT THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENTLY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE

OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN

THE UNITED STATES, WHICH

HINDERS THE ADVÄNCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE

COUNIRY.

API: RADIO LIBERACION, APRIL, REP POM. - ASSTOXELY CARMICHAEL,

LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID - SUE NEGROES MUST ARM OURSELVES WITH

RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE

CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION.

CARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS

A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED. THAT THE

VIOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S

DEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WMAI WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN

CITIES®"

SON RADIO HATANA, APRIL, &POM A THIS NING'SA DEATH SHOWS

ONCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY

VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.

LE RADIO PROGRESO, A APRIL, IF P.M. A JCARNICHAEL SAID

DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT •A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE

IN ASSASSINATING. DR: KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-

MENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT IO BURN

THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL

BE NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION. CARMICHAEL ADDED =

•SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE

BEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS

S, AS A RESULI OF THE CRIME

COMMITTED AGAINST DRO KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL

• TAXE PLACE. GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES

BECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST

THE POLICE. STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING

AFFECTIONAIE REGARDS IO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR

LEADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZ.*•

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE

---

## Page 13

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

130 RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, I POMO A MALUAN AMANIA BRAS,

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO

RICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-

CIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES

AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT.

ARM RADIO HABANA, S APRIL, I POMO A BOTHE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT

OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-

ZATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE. OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE

ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING."

• "THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE

AMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A ANE BEG YOU TO

EXPRESS TÖ THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS

OUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR

• STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH

SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV

ING GENUINE LIBERATION -WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE

AFRO-AMERIÇAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A

TOTAL CONFRONTATION.

STIT RADIO NABANA, PAPRIL, # POM. & STAGUST IN /GONZALEZI

MARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

STATEMENÍS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW MAY THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE

OF THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY

WHEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED

WITN THE RESPECI WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUMAN BEINGS®' BA

DORA RADIO HABANA, L APRIL, I P.M. A AOREVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR,

• OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLÖWING

STATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - SHIS EROTHERS; THE AMERICAN.

NEGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE THAI

THEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGNITY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN

CRUSHED, WILL COME BACK TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHARGY AND

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA - 29877 PAGE FOUR

---

## Page 14

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA -29877 PAGE FIVE

WILL RISE FROM IHE IR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINGIBLE ARMY. IS

LEM RADIO LIBERACION, APRIL, "P.M. À EDITORIAL CONVENTS

CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS

ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,

SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE. MARTIN LUTHeR

KING. DID NOT

PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIN OF VIOLENCE.. HE DID NOT

UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED HIM DOWN.

DIA RADIO HABANA, APRIL 68, EP P.M. I JOHNSON POSTPONED

HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS -WHO WERE MORE OR

LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE. JOHNSON APPEMRED ON

TELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE:

INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING• THESE ACTIONS AND THESE

WORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING TO

SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES. JAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-

NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICÚLT CONDITIONS,

THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS INE CHASH WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE...

UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE

FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ARE HARD TO PREDICT.'

JITKE ASSASSINATiON OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALISI RACISTS

IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

STRUGGLE."

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

2 A C/WK/COG

• •2 A C/NOL INE

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE

BT

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FLING

Fill In Sect. 2. on back. Detach back Hap

and lorward in RID.

3.

Destroy tont cover shoel, unless it records

significant action taken er, comments roquir-

ing pronervation.

FROM:

•RID/ CR

. TO:

. ACTION. BRANCH

Il lie no. and title shown aro not proper.

Insert proper file no. bolow and lorward

documont to RID/NN.CK

FILE NO.

TO.

ALL'ÄODRESSEES

PILL'IN SÉCTION 'I ON DACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTA

то:

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECRIVED

I 6 APR 968

CHRONO DETACHED

Steve.

5.

•Bil

Vette

Rude

CLOPS DO

FlUK

i2..

file Mikis

87.

TRACE

BEQUIST

DATE MICHIGEO

he raini

her is. La

179(80

Pus:

Pit

MICROFILMED

APR 15 1968

DOC. MICRO. BER.

on siparate

stutt lifter

32-y-16

072-004-016

201-91109406

ABSTRACT

1A08E

•SCA 07012

3

C

---

## Page 16

DISPATCH

SECRET MEREBT

Posin

Chief,

WH Division

PROCESSING

ACTICIN

MAS FOR MONUME

NO: NOTHING FLQUIRED

CRET QUALIFIED

WEL PLANTINS DEJH

tai rice interime

ACTICACT

Chief of Station

SUBJECT

Communist Comments on the Death of Martin Luther Ning?

Réference to "Black Power" Concept

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES

of statements on for adolere nuther ang oo coonantan

Communist Party (PCD), the Communist l4th of June Revolutionary.

Movement (MR-1J4), and various tinde unions.. All appeared

in the 7 April 1968 issue of El Nacional.

2.

The tent of. the PCD statement makes reference to the

visit

of Stokely Carmichael to the Latin American Solidarity

Organization Conference (LASO). quotes a statement by Fidel

Castro on Carmichael and the concept of "Black Power," and:,

expresses the solidarity of the PCD with the struggle of

North American Negroes.

The NR-1J4 statement;

only available

in gist, says that: King's denth reveals

existing within US society and shows

the profound. crisis

that for the "ricist

forces;

" violence. is

the only law and is applied to

internal

and external enemies alike.

Neither statement issues a call to violence on

part of US Negroes.

y Stewart R. PATAKER

Pierce?

ATTACHMENT:

FE"

As. Stated Herewith To te

auther t-

aensitized

PFILMED

DISTRIBUTION:

1 5 1968

WILDOC MICRO SER

3 ÷ Chief;

WH Division Toatt T/w

3 - Files w/att

PATT

GBCEP

Exctatal t03 tot:aat::

STEArS 103-881

догіалая

COPY

''CROSS FAFERENCE TO

D. 22-4-13

SECRET

29-4-1L

DATE TYPED

CATE: DESPATCHED

10 Apr 68

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MADDER

HDCA

7012

NIADQUARTEAS FRE POMADER

70-960586

192-4-16°

---

## Page 17

Condenan Ascsinato De

Martin Luther King

DOs

organizaciones Izqulordls

lenelà revolucionarta que derram

as condenaron hoy la muerte del bará el sistema Imperlalista®

reverendo Martin Luther King.

EL PCD demando de las organi

comunicados

serrados el zaclones polficas y sindicales des-

Partido

Comunista Dominicano y

arrollar actividádes en apoyo a la

ol Movimiento Revolucionarlo 14

lucha de los negros norteameries.

de Jullo dicen solidarizarse con

008..

ol movimiento nogro de los Esta.

Por su parto el 1'4 de.Junlo con-

dọe Unidos,

sitero que el asesinato del Premio

EL PCD' señala qie el asestrato

Nóbel de la Paz revela la profunda

del, lider pacifista la tonido Justa

crisis en queha entrado la socledad

respuesta®

en' la violencia desata-

norteamericana.

de en las cludades más importantés

Demuestra,

según el 'l4 de Junio,

de Le Estados Unidos que ha obli

que para las fuerzas racistas a

#ado a que ol presidente Johnson

uñica'loj on la violencia y que'ésta

cancelara su viaje ol exterior para

es ápleada à todo enemigo inter-

conversaciones de par en Vietnam,

no o'externo" que se revelo contra

Dice:respaldar la rebelión, y los

el imperio brutal"

pronunciamientos dol-líder nogró

Entiende la orcanización política

Stokely:Carmichael ya que Slúnico.

que

La

muerto del reverendo Lu

camino en los Estados. Unidos para ther Klag es una gran enseftanza

librarse de la violencia de los man

para los de Bu raza que sufren la

les que padecé ese pueblo es la vio. opresión raciata,

---

## Page 18

PARTIDO COMUNISTA

DOMINICANO

(PCDI

-iNuestra solidaridad plena

con la lucha de los negros

norteamericanos;

como parte que es de la lucha

de todos los oprimidos

de la tierra!

Él regimen de los monopollos Impertallstás porteamericanos

443 6:

por la

accion

de los pueblos desde fuera con

Vietnam al fronte, y desde dentro con el gran movimiento por los

derechos cirilos y por la paz.

El asesthato de Luther King.

sorá prosentado como la obra de lá mano fanitica de ún racista;

peru

queda

clara la responsabilidad de los lateresados en liqui.

dar. Ja

accion civil por la volencta,

de los interesados en im.

ponor la nurdara a los reclamos del pueblo que cada ves mas

-lucha ortanzadamenté y que comprende los objecios de esa

Jucha, de los monopollos imperalistas,

La violencia engendra violencia, Muchos siglos de explota

clón'y de represión han pasado hasta que en los ditimos años :

y en ello

en ero premie tenga organte, de los estatencia:

el papel de

de la/mas 'encoiniable abnegación,

aunque su prediea

de "pas

Đo , haya

sido

compreniibie por todos los optimidos m

la mas' apropiada como lo domuestra su su propia muerte.

•Los. migros cunsti

A en'los .Estidos Unidos el secior mis

explotado de la clase obrera en el nivel de sueldos, en la dis.

criminacion social

que asume formas raciales, en la propor.

clón de lus que

participan

en

el *jército,

en los planes de

seguros sociales; por lo que la discriminación y su respuesta

en 'la' lucha por los derechos civiles tiene características esen.

calmenté clasistas aunque asuma

formas

que crecientemente

este fenomeno es

raciales,' y por lo

comprendido por las

propias

masas blancas que apoyan los reciamos cittles de la

población de rasa africana marginada de la soctedad.

---

## Page 19

Fidel Casero dijo en la clausura

de la Conferencia de la

Organización Launoamericana de Solidaridad, donde Sokely Car-

michael representaba a los norteamericanos organizados en el

• Poder Negro.

que

de ese

sector negro,.

por ser el sector más.

explotado y reprimido, más brutalmente maltratado en Estados

Unidos, surgira la vanguardia revolucionaria, en el sino de los

Estador Unidos; y alrededor de ese movimiento revolucionario,

que. no surge en

ese séctor por problemas' de raza, sino que

surge

•el. problema

social, por, priblema de explotación y

opresión, y porque constituye ese sector el mas sufrido, por

la:ley' de la historia igual que en rodaslas épocas de la his.

orla: como ocurrió con los, plebejos en Roma, con los siervos

de';la gleba. en la Edad Média, con los obreros y lus campe.

siños en los tiempos contemporineos., en la socledad americana,

de ese sector oprimido surgirá el movimiento revoluclonarto".

Tan 'só o unos días han pasado desde el romento en qué

Johnson

anunciard

el

retro

de su candidatura presidencla!,

pará fomentar la Ilusión de que los polficos llamaros liberales

llegarían al poder en los próximos meses con su programa de

Paz en

Vietnam y de respeto

a los dérechos civiles: cuando

la bala disparada contra

Luther Klag. culocara, su silbido de

violencia.como la tónica de la polfica norteamericana inme.

diata: Los quo tienen el poder,

los monopolios armamesdistas,

no lo dejarán: pacíficamente,

derrota

no permiurin la suspensión y

en la

guerra de Vietnam sin resistir pir lodos los.

modios, sin plantear su própla salida de violencia á todas las

masas del mundo.

La muerte de Luther. King no es la obra de un fanático;

sino que signilica la politica

de un grupo soclal poderoso,

La muerte

de Kennedy en poco tiempo se Indentificó con una

nueva politica, La muerte de Klng es un rasgo más de la in:

minencia' de nuevas y más feroces acciones. del imperialismo;

de. un entronizamiento de la violencia en el poder estatal; que

sôlo sera vencida con el triunfo de los pueblos; y en esa lucha

ol' pueblo negro norteamericano tendri un Importante papel que

jugar, Juega ya un importante papel, del lado de todos los pueblos

del mundo.

Nuestra solidaridad plena con la lucha de los negros norteame.

ricanos;.

como parte que es de la lucha, de todos los oprimidos

de la derrals.

'so

secretartado del Comiré Central del Pärudo..

comunista Duminicano

Santo Domingo, 6 de abril de 1968

801

(ESPACIO PAGADO) :

oresandinsad muaruizauas

308

ni 8sHu

05817

dou autll

mEn

gos ten onesesta 141m

19 a THU + 8

"STÁ V.

---

## Page 20

ESPALO PAGADO)

¡PROTESTAMOS POR EL ASESINATO

DE MARTIN LUTHER KING!

¡SOLIDARIDAD CON LOS NEGROS EN LUCHA!

sarte Luther Kirg, Iider pacifista del movimiento negro norteamericare, Pre

mio Nobel de la Par, ha sido asesinado por los opresores de su pueblo 5 de lados

los pueblos explotados del sundo.

SU DELITO: Luchar, pur la liberación de los negros, contra la di seriminacion

racial,

contra las veraciones y la explotación que sufren sus hermanos de raza en

los Estadäs Unidos, Es el "delito" que le cargan quienes, sobleman para el mal a

todos aquelios que se rebelan, que luchan pür a libertad.

La mierte de King la, conmovido al Mundo porque evidencia en forma alarmante

hasta dônde pueden

llegar los ricachones racistas que contrulan el juder en los

Estados Valdos,

La violenta rebelara de los negros y de ródis los demacratas cor jerisi de nueso

a estremecer la sociedad sorteamericana.

La solidaridad internacional con su 'cnusa so eipresa en miltiples formas.

Y nosotras, 'los obreros dominicanis, elevamos.

nuestra vor de protesta y

llamamos a la solidaridad setivacon toda manifestación de lucha, que dentro j fuera

de los Estados Unidos, exprese el repudio & ese hecho-bochornoso:

Adoptamos esta sétud conscientes de que al sumarnos a lá protesta mundial

nos colocamos junço al sector mis oprimido y vejado de la clase obrera norteame-

ricana: los trabajadores pegros

Y de que nos situamos de frente a los poderasos

que: con hipocresta mos j, con cinismo otros, dicen lamentar la muerte del lider

negro; mientras preparan las bayonetas para tratar desplastir la lucha desencade.

nada,

Nada han hecho los gobernantes y oligarcas de nuestra terra en protesta por el

asesinato. de Luther. Kira. Duelos Interminables, hubleran: realizado si 'la accida

justictera de los pueblos tubiera terminado con la vida de Jolinson o de otro magnate

de la explotación imperial sta, Pero Luther Kingera un representante de los segrus:

explotados, un luchador por los derechos civiles de los negros que a su entender,

no merecía homenaje alguao.

Sin embargo, Later King dene en nosotros a sus répresentantes dominleanas,

a los que encarnamos 'es est derra los intereses del trabajo y del progreso de foda

•humanidad l' por eso, en esta ocasión, tambien damos un paso el fremte::

Llamamos a todos los bombrés honestos de nuestra Patria a manifestar su

• solidaridad con la causa de los negros norteamericanos,

Llamamos a las demás organizaciones de trabajadores a repudiar el asesinato

de Luther Kirig y, a solidarizarse con la lucha de los negros norteamericanos.

Llamamos a la: Universidad Autónoma de Santo Domingo y a los ayuntamientos

democracos del país, pars que, ampirados en sú autonomía, declaren tres aras de

duelo por el asesinato se Lulber King.

Que en las fabricas, en las escuelas, en las oficinas y en todos los centros de

trabajo se rinda homenaje al líder asesinado y, se exprese nuestro apoyo al pueblo

negro de los Estados Vildus que es erminalmente colocado en la primera libea de

luego en VierNam, al mismo derpo que en su propio pafs se le someta a la mis

cruel explotacion.

- ¡MANTENGAMOS LA SOLIDÁRIDAD ACTIVA HASTÀ QUE NUESTIOS HERMA

NOS NEGROS DE, LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS CONQUISTEN TODOS SUS DERECHOS!

FEDERACION DE TRABAJADORES REVOLÚCIONARIOS UNIDOS DEL

DISTRITO NACIONAL (FETRUDINA

FEDERACION NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES PORTUARIOS

FEDERACION NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES DE LA INDUSTRIA DE LA

CONSTRUCCION Y 'SUS AFINES (FENATRAICA).:

SINDICATO PORTUARIO DE -LOS MOLINOS DOMINICANOS

SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES PORTUARIOS DE ARRIMO (POAS).

SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES DE LOS MOLÍNOS DOMINICANOS*

SINDICATO DE LA SOCIEDÁD INDUSTRIAL DOMINICÃNA (MANICERA)

ASOCIACION'DE CROFERES INDEPENDIENTES (ASOCHOD*),

ASOCIACION DE EMPLEA

S DE LA UNIVERSIDAD AUTONOMA

DE SANTO DOMINGO

SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES TELEFONICOS

SINDICATO DE COBRADORES DE AUTOBUSES DE SANTO DÓMINGO

SINDICATO DE OPERARIOS SASTRES DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL

SINDICATO DE OBREROS ¿'EMPLEADOS DEL AYUNTAMIENTO

DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL

SINDICATO DE LA PAPELERA INDUSTRIAL

027-004-016 SADICATO NACIOYAL DE CARPINTEBOS

022-ci4-016

deliacinal

---

## Page 21

4-g0001

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

• DATE PROCEEBEO

NO FILE NO.

DISPATCH DA SOURCE DOC. BYGOL- ND.

DaTE

%. SOURCE CRYPTONYAO, DATE OF INTO. D. "VALUATION

i. DATE

DOCUMENT. DiSPOSITION

KING.

MARTIN LUTHER

:201-760966

SEX M

D0g

: 201-011911

DUC - 04700

11

MAR

68

FBI

CIT

oce

: INFO

RE-PLANS FOR A MASSIVE

•OBEOIENCE DEMONSTRATION

IN. THE "NATIONS

CAPITAL

THIS SPRING

R 6803140388

20461191:

IG B 0704

1758 ES2

FILE IN 201-260916

• FILE NO.

SECRET

---

## Page 22

DISPATCH

CLASMIRICATIONO

POSIN

INFa

Chiet/Kusada

353447

•FRCW

Chief of station. islAVe

SUACT RYBAT/ FJDUST/ PBRUMEN/ AMFRISK

Surveillance on IDEN C

CTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: For your information

PROCESSING

АСІЮТ

RATALO SOR 19981186

NO INCHANTS MIQUAED

CALE CALLO

MEASORLETERS NASH

ABSTALCY

rile

1. IDEN A, & cleared and witting contact, provided the

tollowing information which was obtained during a surveillance

local ODENVY®

information to JMYAVE.

2. Cn Thursday;

" surveillance vas instituted

from Room 618 of IDEN B On

adjoining room. 620, which was occupied

by IDEN C and his nide IDEN D.

The survelllance was initiated at

11:00 a.m. and terminated at 5:15 p.m.

During the conversation

between IDENS C and D'and another unknown Negro male, belteved

IDEN E, references were made to

the Florida Gubernatorial

Race; a trip to Binini; and several miscellaneous sex experiences.

3.

n: 20 May 1966 a search was made of rooms. 620 and 622

after

IDENS C'and'D moved out? Forwarded under separate cover

are

copies of items

found in the waste baskets and dressers;

a hotel bill,

and 2

Ilst of telephone numbers which were called

on 18 - 19 May 1966•

Ot special intorest among these items was a note which

stated; IDEN F, please

call long Distance. Operator IDEN G.

IDEN: H;

according to IDEN A, is an identified member of the

Communist Party:

Also, an envelope of IDEN B with the name

IDEN I.

This person may, have been

one of the occupants of the

room who remained in the company of IDENS C and D overnight.

JÍVAVE traces were negative on all personalities

mentioned above as well as those names appearing in the date

JNWAVE has carded only

Attachment:

A. IDENS A-I u/S/c

B. ITEMS

u/s/c

DISTRIBUTION:

B)- Chief/KUSODA

w/att

• Chief, VH Divisionw/o att

¡ CROSS REFERENCE TO

Listen lo Cestibal

PHILIP G. ELMARD

• DATE TYPED

Gintidot as 208

QATE DISPAICHED

15 July

1966

9018d5

D'SPATCH STMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGT - I6828

PEALJUARILAS FILE NUMBER

SARIN 9 M

CLASSIICATION

SECRET

---

## Page 23

1d-0n0d

..*

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

- CLASSiFICATION

FEASE CHET

..ATER SINUOL AND NUMBER

UFGT - 16828

Soparato Covor Attachment A to UiGI - 16828

IDEN A

IDEN B

IDEN C

IDEN D

IDEN E

IDEN F

IDEN G

Miami Intornational Airport

Dr.

Martin resor Xis coolest

Berward Las

Dr. Brown

Dr: King,.

Jr

#71, Homstoad, N.Y*

To Falls denis

Tolephone # 487-5199-

Mr. Marry Wachtoll and signed Lillian

Mr. Harry Wachtell

Miss Maxine Thurston

IDEN H

IDEN I

Distribution:

1 - Chief, Wi Division

---

## Page 24

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 25

14-00000

Gretere ceeer?

---

## Page 26

MAR-1990

UNITE

FRIDAY

29

$3338

APR. 1966

-APPOINTMENTS-

MAY 1988

8:00

8.30

9.00

0:30

•10.00.

10:30

11:00

11:30

82.00

1:00

1:30

2:00

2:30

3:00

9:30

4:00

4:30:

- 5:00•

5:90;

Ov Khy Pr.

Plime Cele

Lang Distaine !

peralor I1

Hemilead New Yarki

487-5199

sm. Hatry Wachtell

---

## Page 27

138035

Atre: Men's Shas, Iie.

MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.

¿JEANY DALINDO

MIAMI 59, FLORIOR

Customer's

Sold To.

Addles

Dad =206€

DESS TIPIION

Cabana 101

1660

PRICE

Гіння

THANK YOU

Please keep his copy for relera

No. 122972 Recd by

300

135

1310

6 4.10

L1O335YHО 40

aSI SATYNY

397J

3241

•ON 3711

13803S

---

## Page 28

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 29

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 30

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 31

4-00000

1:

....

---

## Page 32

14-00000

---

## Page 33

main

13803$

THE

iamoud

MENS SHOP

AMERICANA

BIOTEL

EstiAvo. & 39rd, 51.

Guad ne 231 54) pas 1º/16

Order No

Addiosn

воч а ат

NEW.YORK

CAIT

AT 8-7208

196.

LU.

TITUES

1zU

37471

CARDNOLDER'S RECEPT'" SCE REVERSE SIDE FON EXPENSE RECORD

EXPINES

1O0 064

#C: 4103-7900-9

"Diners eus

310 - 910-107-6

CORDED

20796:40 30 SISATINY

V-v 0066

EAHDAGLDE$

307

RECORD OF. CHARGE

1495

N/

+01

PURIHA01

TAXES

Topg

AND

MISC.

17.46

TOTAL

MCARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT

., erise.

---

## Page 34

SECRET

INHEN PHILO INI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSIRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Sect. 2 on

back..

Detach back llap

Destroy

sia PHilies il records

significant acton-laken or comments requis-

ing

proseivation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il ble no. and title shown die not proper,

insoll proper hale no beiow and lorward

document to RID/AN

•ROPEN FILE NO

TO. ALL ADORESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ONBAES

I APPROPRIATE

Tele at title

"DATE

I TO

ROOM

NO

12/4 mig

Vig.

131880

137586

P, I

N, 19

18a13:

FBI Request

13.

Ridanis

100-218

RID: FI

REQUEST

DATE WILHOPY MEO

AOSTRACT

14081

D0C

160-002 - 018

201-760906

DOCUME TAUNSTR

MOBILICE 0W0A 19623

---

## Page 35

DISPATCH

Calef Of Station

INTO

Cater, it

FRORA

Chios of Station

SUBJECT

" Transaltral of Mino to Legal Attache

ACTION SEQUISTO - RE/LRENCIS

CLASSINICATION

SECRIT

_ PROCESSING ACTION

MARRIO POR INDRYING

NO INDENIAO' BIQIELD

CAR JUDGE IRDEXING

MICROFILM

Plone trannilt to the lagal Attache the attached mino

walch la la respons to his Inguiry of 17 March 1966.

Leon S. TORALI

208-860966

Attachinent :

Distribution:

• 2 - COS

w/att

/2 - Chief, Wi v/att

CS: COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

latt

DISPATCH SUMEDE ANO NUMBER

04104-19623

QLASSITICATION

SECABT

-100-005-018

201760466

DATE

30 March 1966

MOS FRE ARABBER

---

## Page 36

SECRET

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KINO, JR.

We have no information that subject appeared at a

rally In Oslo to date, sor does the Eabanay have knowledge

of a future viast of kiNG to Norray.

Any future inforcation which beconds available will

be forvarded to you. We have also taken due note of your

desire that the Norvegian authorities not know of your

Interest In Subject'e activities.

CS COPY

1 00-062-018

it to 04et-96a!.

---

## Page 37

td-innon

SP2TET

N9 fOrueK e

hQ ruchaaid biaaint

CS COPY

Fan 30 Ase 1964

---

## Page 38

CJ. UNCLASCIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY. :

L

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Ophenol)

FROM:

TO: (Officer, dengnation, room number, end

bustdong)

8.

2.

• DATE

RECEIVED

PORWARIED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

2C

NONG

ELATE

T- C72

29 NOY 1956

COMMENTS a load a corona die get com hom

10, поста

23 NOV 1366

drag in l wait

1- d

25 N0Y

(i. 14.

dt

300ce

CE

10.

12.

13.

20/740 966-1527lan

1. Подно пасі

Cripageo

hey ruste

-Thi

41794

14.

15.

$-07

610 USE PRONO

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 39

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICA: NUP

CONFIDENTIAL

Chief, WE Attri: Chief, WE/4

UNFa

VIA COURIER POLCH

PROCESSING

Ax 777»

ARARNES POR 17 AT

NO IRONMITE FINITI

IT QUALITY:

MANQUAATES

ABSTRACT

MICACTIN

PLEAD

Chief of Station

SUBJECT

KEYWAY/Support

PCI Publication of. Articles by Martin Luther KING

ACTION REQUILD, RETERENCES

REFERENCE: OIRT-6733,, 20 October

1964

ACTION REQUIRED:

For your information.

Forwarded herewith is a memorandum prepared for PRESLAND'S

information concerning

an article attributed to Martin Luther

KING that appéared in tho 22 October issue of the PCI organ,

Vie Nuöve: Also forwarded Is a copy Of the 24 October Issue

öf Rinascita which repriats on its last page an article by RING

that, according to an editorial note, was originally published

in The Nation.

Attachments: as stated.

Distribution:

3-C/WE, watts.

*CROSS RETRENCE TO

NOV 17 1964

DATE TYPED

16 NOv 64

OSPATCH SYMBOL AND FLIER

DATE DISPRICHED

OIRT-06783

MEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBIR

6:1,15

a finances eas

CLASSIFICATION

CONF IDENTIAL

---

## Page 40

Attachment to:

OIRT - 06783

16 Nov 64

SOMET

SUBJECT:

"Article by Martin luther King in Yie Nuove,

22

October 1964.

1.

The article entitled "what He Negroes Ask of the

President"

and attributed to Martin Luther King, published on

pages 15 and 17 of the 22 October 1964 Jesue of the Italian •

Communist Party organ Vle Nuove, Is a straightforward expression

of the hopes and aspirations of

the American Negro population:

and of its determination to continue the struggle by

non-violent

means until full social ind economic equality has been obtained.

The article does not contain anything which could be considered

as typical communist propaganda nor anything that seems to bẹ

directed specifically to i

communist audience

The article,

under King's byline, would be perfectly proper for any. American

publication

2..

At the beginning of the article, Vie Nuove Includes the

following editorial comment:

The racial problem is ohe of the subjects that most divides

the American states in this presidential electiön!

This

article, by Martin Luther King, that we published exclusively,

• Illuninates its most dramatic aspects and expresses the

requests that the colored population advances to the entire

nation.

It is a denunclation of the inequality of rights

that goes beyond the secular racial question.

The

"you must

respect my person"'is a request that the problem of Democracy

poses for everyone:

3.

Despite the o

date of its publication the article appears

to have been written some months agò.

This is evident from King's

reference in the article to the fact that the Civil Rights Bill

was before Congress at the time he was writing the

article

The

Bill, It will be recalled,

was enacted

into law on 2 July.

1964

The

conclusion to be drawn-from

this is that the article'g

appearance in Vie Nuove of at least, its composition by King, 1s

not the direct resuft of any contacts that King may have had

with

PCI officials during his visit to

Rome in mid-September.

---

## Page 41

14-00001

ittachment to

OIKT- 06783

169laes 64

Rinascita

pag. 3 Rinascita

Setticanale fondato da Palmiro Toglialti

Sabnto 24 ottobre 1964

Le 100

N. 42 - anno 21

Lotta

di classe

• riunificazione

solitica

Interviste con

Tecchietti

ombardi

T

i politica

del Ventesimo

Le decisioni di Mosca. per l'imporinza delo è che l'allarino della crisi del contro-sinistra e

l'arseniento, per il peso che cosi è chiamato ad

del naufragio delle que, prospettive politiche im-

avere nelle prospettive della vita sovictica e del • pedisce a certi democratici e a taluni socialisti di

movimento operaio internazionale; non poterano

guardare al di la dei soti delle prossime elezioni

non suscitare interromativi. non diventare argo-

municipali, anche quando si tratta della prosper

niento di riflessione e di dibattito bei oltre le

tina mondiale. Con il risultato, crediamo. di non

frontière dell'Unione Sorietica.

la procedura di.

reder chiaro nè quello che può accadere nel

juelle decisioni e il modo contraddittorio, tale

mondo, nè quello che accadrà acl municipio.

'da lasciore ancora vaste zone d'ombra, col qual

---

## Page 42

Kinasrile pag. 32

21 ollobre 1061

Testimonmnze

Carri armati a Jackson

Martin

denthee Armi ir., lr.a

1010 909

afel

Br.P0t9

17181-

della

stilo della

di Martin Luther King

cune

di diver.

Tho 4318088

sirridoino

lultica e

fronte prisone di core

228

corta.

Anche

illustrano le passina sono ripren

si ila 17er Vilivin.

Per molli-anni, nel jussato, la lof-

la per a dirinti dei nceri distato asta-

Potato.

408).#

contuáe.motsoplicita

à lattiche. del primo periodo del go

verno

Kennels,

si

istenulor.che

determinare

zionaris

tira

legisla

dellara l'istane

l'opinione pubblica

quard

Congresso

alli

legislativi,

1080- 10

attennes

Huano

po ion

A+v10

rapidlomente

diso

4t81aa3

$4t11.g

croich

west tal

ta risposto o chie

I arari

bruta.

ano stati

L'n

seroataltà el.adlad 14958.1

apparato

abituali

in armerazioni

mil aniro nelle più as

solutimpunità. poe

iti

sti ports.

lere

incontrullato:

un actine

Torerale

legale.

Bill

crisi

ale specchich e presso ior

coscienta

federali:

aiutano I negri in questa lupari bat-

toglio gio di un amichevole colpetto.

sull

Sgalla.

педгі

hanno. trovato nell'aziono

thretta

non

violenta: uno

strumento

miracoloso-contro-@trapleno della for

na brula, a non è uno strumento plo

salutivo.

-da- riflellori

orlando; la lues il

miglialm.

puntale." sulle

rialent:

manganell

della polizia

del Sud. pistole

vergono

temporaneamen

rinfoderall,,

CONTRIBE

nt:

limputenas

lale.

del

nunciatal

di

di"

Lestimont," la

polizia

cortimma

Impiegare

contro

nest

vistoni

nd. alla

on+

qua nđỏ:

compiuto

con

notte

10cca

fondo.

conte

criminalild

testimonia

siote

con una bomba

altro

donienicale.

mutilazionl.

Ioni

bombe sono altre

estimo

Сиру

amente

Birmingham. appar

alla

•IRi

idatiti

eletto

dest

anco

neuro.

lin eranpio

aniereso.

carenx:

ha.nicsso

in

rilicres: il

nativa

Howard Zinn..d.clk

dettor

sazione

sii

dirittl- civili

approva-

-1566 @ stala

Sud. Il codice,

applic.la

nel

penale americano,

al

titolo 10, sezioni 288*a 31. stabilisce

che on funzionario il quale nochi o.

un cilladino l'esercinio dei suoi dirit

ti costituzionali.

chiunque

agisca

COD

questo

obiettiva, commette un

delillo, aa. le riolazioni di questo

articolo sono ben più nurierose del

pari casi in

cui ll ministero della

•Giustisia

ne

ha

invocato l'applica-

zione.

11 farlo è che la legislazione lode-

rale

è ridiala nol

Sard

in

modo

mal massiccio

che

non e esagera

Bione affermare

che l'unità foderale

del paese è puro più di un'illusione.

Per il noiro dal Sarl è solo un tragico

milo: è sile strillialo, imprigionato e

assassinalo e sobbono la desco ledera.

abrebbe

gastelle

ragniere l col.

per oli

non è dalo follo sulla pordi.

l'impressiono di cui il negro

stolgono

solo quando

manifestazioni

negre

intento, e quindi

assistito

convinta

non

di

con

eccessiva:

invece,

non

portagenio

che quợi tipo

parle

e abituale.

non

brutalità

сасе

sionalé.

poliziesca.con

nisenza o, pel migliore

dei

•l'indifferenta della comunità, & una

espericnes quotidian. det negri

in

troppo sode del Sud. I negri vivono

it

stato

alnies fr

pubblica

polizin che,

una re

del go-

pro

cesti

pid

triseinerà per

"anni.

ellionoe

rileninta

lin

non

freno

304350,

d'incor per-

della

rinuncla ad agire.

dimoors

perché

futilila e

debolezza

del potere federale.

Molti si domandano come mai le

dimostrazioni e le lotte nel Sud ten-

è vitting

violazioni più tragiche e fre

queati si

ver tirano nelic tone in

della parliaia

184753

kkua

assest

rhiarartente.

alleali condro

Maziti

2Ier6*A91

Bianchi

de't

brutalr

della

alato

•18

l'emilalo

per lạ

armato e Thi

pound.

con

dodici

13.000

borde

fucill

bọ

trasporlo

peringer

401

riflettori.

rimorchio

oltre

und

forzo

500

st:lall.

ili

sone comunale

- Ii:

Questore

esercilo

manilestazioni non

locale

attende

violente con

deute.

ostilita e con la

consueta

lità a far uso delle armi.

. Non

non concludere

negri.

che 1

I quali hanno

dimostrato

0e

eccezionale

uD

nella loro ariu

dirella non

violenta,

S0N0

stall

abbandonati dal più potente gorerno

del mondo. Manno subito la

violenza

per

rivelare

quinto

profondo sia

loro dramma e Der

elovere_la loro

protesto:

il

governo

invece venire in

loro aiuto

il

cli

che

con

cornacio

sione.

Chiesta

contraddizione

deve

essere

assolutimente risolta. Lossi e comita-

ti inter-razziali

possono trasfor

comunita

quando

delengono

il

coloro

potere

locale

sanno ili poter

ricorrere all'uso della

1) potere ecntrale

poregatio.

Nel mondo esistono governi

¿ quali don sono in

arallo di contro.

lare alcune

sone del paese, codi come

il aucerno americano

di

cent'anni or

ВОНИ

A1098t

8.ste

sulle

tribu

indiane.

abi"

Daci siamo

Nicidi

allania

4000,

la

nosire p

lonao nazionale è quasi senar limiti:

eppare.

il governo

non

e in trado

di far

applicare

la

nemiueno

in un piccolo, mase prot illacgio del

Sud.

1 seerno don ha oraina allra al-

Peronia che uffrontire in modo del

fultu

noods il problema. -ll vigore

del movimento pee i cirillo risatana

è scalataso

Fal+93916511,

perché

440869024 46:322

1nl #

Hers forda

Trali + 791196

*Pleine

---

## Page 43

Ag."

UNCLASSIFIED

SÚBJECT, (Opronel)

FROM,

AD NEP

$A12

1O: Omier designation rom nimber, an

TVe/ Suppert

Сі ! ВИЙ

ONLY

• CONF' NTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

EXTENSION

DIRT - 6733

29000 196

DATE

FORWARDED

- INITIALS

89 OCT 196%

%

Wü14

More

RECE

29%68

ECHIONO

5-6: We shall cubigati

one aband the carter s

there sported muting?

A ng SEA

ires

Gil.

10.

Sifo in attacked: 01-6733

316/o2a51 -671

drafted 6ho69

WE 14/CE

his it

13:

FORAA

3-07

RID

GUS MINOUS

LON'ON

i Files

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL.

I kleen file in ai

100 - 2-

- 46

iNTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 44

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSITICATION

SECRET:

Ch1of, WE Attn:

Chief, WE/4

BASEN

VIA COURIFR FOUCH

PROCESSING

ACTICA:

MARiND FOR INDERING

NO, INDEXING REQUIRED

CARY QUALITIED

READQUARTIAS DESA

ACCOA

TISHED

Міс ВОлЕЙ

•KEYWAY.

Meeting of Dr. Mortin Luther XING with Italian Leftist

ED, REFERENCES.

Personalittos

For Your Information.

Following

Is tranglation of a report on the subject:

"The Mission of Luther KING with the Italian Left', dated

28 September 1964 and attributed to DEPLENARY/7, fron Lufg

PINTOR, from Information coming /into the editorial offices

of L'UNITA.: The Station received the report on 1 October 1964 slUt

"Luther KING; noted Protestant negro Pastor and leader!

of the anti racist movement in the Untted states-met with

various leaders of the Itallan Communist Party (PCI) and of

the Italian Soctalist Party (PSI) On 18 Beptember In Rome:

In particular, KING conferred with PCI Senators Velto SPANO

and Ugo BARTESAGHt, with SiDeputy Lucio LUZZATO, and with

Senator Paolo VITTORELLI at the Italtan Soctallst Party of

Proletarian Unity.

KING discussed with the above-named

politicians the program of demonstrations against segrega

tion in the United States, which are to be organized in

Italy during the months immediately ahead."

Access to the DEPENd establishment.

The same report as also received from DEDICATOR/4 who

and thus it is not

considered as confirning the DEPLENARY/? information.

(Continued)

Attachment:

b/w

Copy. of a report passed to local ODENVY rep:

Distribution:

S-C/WE;

w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

4.7 8..a1211:

OCT 20 1964

DATE OISPATCHED

DATE TIRED

16 Oct 61

DISPATON SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OIRT - 06733

MEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

100-2-4

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

---

## Page 45

CATION

CONTINUATION. OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

SOL AND NUS

OIRT - 06733

3:

Given the source of, the above report, wo view

it with

BOnE reserve.

In this: connoction, we noted

tho

' 19 September'

IssUe of L'UNITA,.

which reflected an article on KING's private

audience with pope Paul held the procoding day.

According to

Li' UNITA;

Immediately after the audience, In St. Poter's Square,

KING stated that "Pópo Paul was most clear on.

the fact. that both

ho, personally, and the Catholic Church support the cause of

civil righte

The article also states that in

a press confer

ence

held

at Fiumicino Atrport after the audience KING said,

"The Pope will shortly make a public statement on racial seg-

ravation!.

We have no. other Information at this time.

war def

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO

2 of

• 2

A03)

---

## Page 46

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 47

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 48

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

