104-10186-10227).

CENTRAL iNTELLUGENCE AGENCY

‘Tots matertal comtatns Eaftemation affecting the Rational Defends of the Culted States within the meaning of the apionags Laws, Tle
12 TSC Grea TH amd TH the tranaminion of fereiathen of WBich in aay manner to an Unauthorieed persca ts probibited by law,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTRY Cuba a) : REPORT NO.  CSC1-316/01238-64
SUBJECT Jose REBELLON-Alonzo DATE DISTR, 9 October 1964 ®
. : “No. paces 2 RN
ee ee
= REFERENCES 3 one :
: e orgor®
: i.
DATE OF 1964 How
pace a Washington, D. Cy
bate aca.October 1964 FIELO REPORT NO.

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ABE DIFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 18 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

Source identified Jose REBELLON Alonzo as President of the
Federacion Estudiantil Universitaria (University Student
Federation - FEU) and commented that hg gag gegn. REBELLON at
Manuel PINEIRO's home several times.1/2:9+4,9,6,7,8,9,

Headquarter Comments

1. An untested source, in a report dated 8 July 1960, said that 1
Jose REVELLON was one of the student leaders at the University
of Habana; he was in the School of Engineering.

2. In a report dated 31 May 1961, a usually reliable source said
: he was told by an untested source that Jose REBELLON Alonso,
a student in the School of Engineering at the University of
Habana, was a Communist.

3. A Cuban national, untested, stated in a report dated 26 March :
1962, that Josc REBELLON, a captain in the Army is the « ;
Director General of the Becados (students who have réceived ;

5 scholarships) at the University of Habana.
a
3 :
2 SECRET
1 NO FOREIGN DISSEM
iFare Toa Taw Trav Tare Tr TROEKX Tce. Tra 2
7 REP CINCLANT _CINCSO_# _T&NS* :
[ces ett canton incoted by “2°

\ LX - 1820
Dit | KO PROJECT (AMMUG/1)
uf SCI~316/01238-44

t arerrersy
Tiaon

a an

uieR

ci 4, RID1L



SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM csc1=316/01298-64

-2-

An untested source in a report dated 5 July 1962 said that Jose
REBELLON Alonso, recently elected president of the FeHeracion
Estudiantil Universitaria (FEU), a Cuban university student group,
was scheduled. to leave Cuba on 19 June 1962 for Canada. The
reason for the trip was to attempt to reach an agreement with the
University Student Federation of Canada which wants to break
relations with the FEU..< Hé was to pass through Mexico either on
his way to Canada or om !his return trip.

An in a report dated 5 October 1962,
statéd that. Jose REBELLON ATonso was one of a group of Cuban
students who arrived in Kingston from Habana on 25 June 1962 and
proceeded to Toronto on. 26 June -1962 to attend an International
Conference of Students, REBELLON was listed as having been born
on 7 August 1936 in Holguin, Oriente, Cuba, and his home address
was-given as the University of Habana. é

A fairly reliable source, in’a report dated 3 April 1963, stated
that Jose REBELLON Alonso,. leader of the FEU, is very close to
Fidel CASTRO and very opposed to Juan MARINELLO Vidaurreta, Rector

of the University of Habana, a

In a report dated S September 1963, an educated Cuban whose
reliability has not yet been established, stated that as of late
June 1962, Comandante Jose REBELLON Alonso was Director of Plans
for Latin American Scholarships, Commission of Foreign Relations,
Partido Unico Revolucionario Socialista (United Revolutionary
Socialist Party ~ PURS) and also president of the FEU.

According to a report dated 26 March 1964, Jose REBELLON Alonso was
ordered to proceed to Europe to coordinate efforts on a new

milk plan which was announced by Fidel CASTRO. REBELLON was
designated to head up this new milk plan.

An untested source, in a report dated 28 July 1964, stated that
as of 6 July 1964, it was planned for Major Jose REBELLON Alonso,
Secretary of the FEU, to leave the University of Habana sometime
in 1964. Source said it was possible that Joaquin MAS Martinez

would replace REBELLON as president.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GR
