# 104-10192-10001

## Page 1

104-10192-10001

TRANSMITIS

TOCS INPORMATION RIPORE

141

ROUTING

,ECRET

Jus 2T ZT. 10:64

ORIG.

UNIT

EXT.

5m

HILZSAAntelZRipurts

5517.

DON AAHỐ ĐNNUSL 19GA

HI/SA 11

INFORMATION COPIES

prif

TDCS DB-315/00518-64

CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IW, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS, WE 4, WH 12

DATE DISTRIDUTED

PRECEDENCE

SA/R

4$A/SI

SALInt.

-ISA/WAVE

SA/EOB

1 $A/SO/MY

SA/CL

SA/NOB

EVALUATIÓN

REQUESTED

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

27 August 1964

DISSEMINATION

JWH/L

2

JWH/2/P

2

WE/5/R

WE/JLADH

ДАМУ

NAVY

PACY

LooST

BARR

MEXI

XI ROUTINE

LASED ON (PLD. RFP., PRUS.)

WAVE-1037

(1N-61124)

UFG-5756.

NP (AMSWIRL-1)

Llaison

AIR

CONTROLLED DISSIN

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

AUTHENTICATING CFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

ak+ ₴

SECRET

(MEN FALLO IN)

DASOLI T2 MAITIONS IDITIONI

COOIDINATING OFFICER(S)

RELEASIN

for 1/5A/Intol

COPY NO.

03

(79-30-40-427

2/00.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY

. DATE OF

INFO.

CENTRAL INTELLIOENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

CUBA/MEXICO/PANAMA

24 AUGUST 1964

TDCS DB-315/00548-64

DISTR. 27. AUGUST 1964

- SUBJECT

ATTEMPT OF MIRR LEADER TO SEER A PILOT TO BOMB

A VESSEL TRADING WITH CUBA NEAR THE PANAMA

CANAL; OFFER OF A MEXICAN GENERAL TO ASSIST THE

DRE IN ITS ACTIVITY

UNITED STATES MIAMI, (25 AUGUST 1964)

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISALS

REF

IN 61124

HELD REPORT NO. UFG -5756

A LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER WHO IS WELL ACQUAINTED WITH

MARITIME MATTERS IN FLORIDA.

SOURCE HAS SUBMITTED A LARGE

NUMBER OF REPORTS BASED ON THE DEBRIEFING OF CUBAN REFUGEES

AND HAS BEEN A CONSISTENTLY RELIABLE REPORTER ON THE PLANS

AND ACTIVITIES OF ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS ENGAGING IN BOAT

OPERATIONS.

1. A.PILOT IS BEING SOUGHT BY ORLANDO EOSCH AVILA, LEADER OF

THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR

INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY); TO FLY A

PLANE FOR THE MIRR FROM AN UNIDENTIFIED SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRY

CLOSE TO THE PANAMA CANAL FOR THE PURPOSE OF EOMBING A MERCHANT

VESSEL SOUND FOR CUBA.. THE STRIKE WOULD TAVE PLACE AFTER THE VESSEL

LEAVES THE CANAL.

2. ACCORDING TO AN UNIDENTIFIED PERSON WHO IS THE UNCLE OF

JULIO CIARAU (PHONETIC) AND WHO IS A MEMBER OF THE DIRECTORIO

lo solarial comtaiDe Infoimalino alecing the Maticnai Deleneo ol lis Unlled Basrce within the meaning of the Maplonago Lawa. Tielo

0, UB.C, Boca 103 and TH, the transentason or revelation of wiich ts any manner to an unsulhoriand parade, is prohibited oy law

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

achodad loons

STATE/IN&

DIA

ARMY/ACSI MAVY

AI#

IS SECDER NSA

COAST GUARD

NIC I USEA OÇI ONE OCR

ORR

00

FBI

BORDER PATROL CUSTOMS

I&YS

---

## Page 3

CONTROLLED DISSEN

IN 51124

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDB-315/0051840E .2

61

REVOLUGIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL (DRE, STUDENTS' REVOLUTIONARY DIREC-

TORATE) WITH CONNECTIONS IN MEXICO, THE DRE HAS BEEN APPROACHED BY

AN UNIDENTIFIED MEXICAN GENERAL IN VERA CRUZ WHO HAS OFFERED TO:

ASSIST

THE GROUP IN ITS ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES. THE GENERAL

SUGGESTED THAT IF IT WERE POSSIBLE TO SABOTAGE A CUBAN VESSEL AT

THE PORT OF VERA CRUZ, HE WOULD BE WILLING TO COOPERATE. HE REQUESTED

$3,400 FROM THE DRE FOR HIS COOPERATION. THE GROUP ALLEGEDLY DOES

NOT TRUST THE GENERAL BUT. PLANS TO TEST HIM FOR RELIABILITY.

3. FIELD DISSEMS CINCLANT, COMAWESTFOR, CINCSO, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, BORDER PATROL, CUSTOMS, I&NS, AND USCG. (ALSO

SENT MEXICO CITY.)

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

