# 104-10177-10161

## Page 1

104-10177-10161

N118..0

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CRIG :

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

1O!

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO :

TOUTING

TO

CLIENTED

Heres it and is to reder

no liar cinem

Vastes 3

w9g111841re

ROUTINE

WFAL

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

AT TATT

OUT 55783

PAOE 2

INFO

CITE DIR

20457

AND PAID A CUBAN LONASHOREMAN $300 80 DO THIS JOB. COLIN PLED TO DOY IS.

•REPORT WHICH BELO POUCHED MENTIONS EROWN AND HSCORMICK AS INO UNSTERS

FROM TOLEDO UHO RESIDE MORGAN S HOUSE•

HOS TRIED DISCOJRAGE CD-BOX.

REQUEST STATIONS COMMINIS.

END OF MESSAOS

03

ga.

3. Go RIO, O/XID

ARINARING OPICI

1389 a

SCRET

AVINARILATINA OIICE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER. INAL THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIMITED.

/BR

---

## Page 2

INCIDENT REPORT

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ONLY

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATEL MaY 1973.

TIME 1705 hourg

NAME Don G. Duncan

_ GRADE N/A

_ OFFICE N/A

INCIDENTRequest for Information TIME 1705 hours PLACE 41I1 Hermosa St.

Toledo,

Ohio

419-536-7159

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

The

Agency

Operator transferred a call from Subject who re-

quested to speak with the Chief Agent.

Subject alleged to be

publisher of the United Labor News,

Ohio, and wanted information on

(circulation 5,000), Toledo..

the disposition of

one. Olga

Morgan,_

a captive

the Bay of Pigs Invasion who has

Deenin-.

carcerated in

one

Initially,

*that Morgan has

been

of Castro's jailse is to seven years,

Subject stated

imprisoned for

later

changing this, upon questioning,

seemed

uncertain

to fifteen

years. Subjoct then

as

to when the

invasion

occurred.

Subject 1s

Avenue, Toledo, Ohio.'

calline for do on mother, airs. ru organ, 130a coldingwood

Subject appeared

to create an

impression that he

1s a real

go-getter who expects a prompt reply to his

query.

Subject

noted that he would

bo calling Jack Anderson, syndicated columnist

following his talk with the Agency.

Subject was highly sarcastic initially but became less strident

as the

conversation developed.

Subject stated that he

expected

his call to be

returned.

he. Was

advised,

however,. that a

report

of his

call would be

prepared and passed to appropriate Agency

officials.

ACTION TAKEN:

As stated abova

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PTOS)

COPY: CIPHY SD

COPY: C'PSD

FILE: BSB/PHYS

SD

COP!:

1798

CHIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ONLY.

---

