# 104-10071-10427

## Page 1

104-10071-10427

TRANSA

AL

OF

TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

..uAmu. Ancoa-

Pradexi

}-SECRET

ORIG.

UNIT

EXT.

Barbara Browl ;sm

-WH/SA/Intel/Reports

5547

CONFRMATIOR DONember 1964

WH/ SA 10

INFORMATION COPIES

ROUTING

2

3

5

Xox 12 23 84264

TDCS DB-315/01349-64

CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, F1/INT 6, IW, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS, WE 4, WH 12

DATE DISTRIBUTED

12 November 1964

•DISSEMINÄTION

SA/R

3

SA/SI

WH/1

WE/5/R

1

SA/Inti

SA/WAVE

1

WH/R

SA/EOB

1

WE/MADR$ 1

SA/SO/HH1

SA/CI

WHLPAC) 1

SA/MOB

EVALUATIONI

REQUESTED

STATE

ARMY

NAVY

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

PRECEDENCE

MEXI

X ROUTINE

BASED ON (FLD. RPT., PROJ.)

WAVE-4603

UFG-6188

NP (AMCOG-3)

iaison

жі

(IN-21127)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

G S INTERNAL USE ONLỲ

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

M.

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

GSOUP 1

GECLASSrICaTIOn

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

WH/ SA/ C1 - M. Hutchisou

RELEASING OFFICER

C/H/SA/Intel

COPYRO

iby phona)

08793

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DIS. M/CONTROLLED DISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

* ROUTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

CUBA

23 OCTOBER 1964

TDCS DB-315/01349-64

DISTR.

12 NOVEMBER 1964

• SUBJECT

RECALL OF PERSONNEL OF THE CUBAN DEPARTMENT

OF STATE SECURITY WHO ARE STATIONED ABROAD

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (5 NOVEMBER 1964)

SOURCE

AND

REF

IN 21127

FIELD REPORT NO.

• APPRAISAL: AN EDUCATED CUBAN RESIDENT IN HAVANA WHO WAS PROMINENT IN PRE-

CASTRO POLITICAL CIRCLES.

SOURCE HAS PROVED TO BE A RELIABLE

REPORTER. THE INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM LT. FERRERO.

1. AS OF 23 OCTOBER, MEMBERS OF THE CUBAN DEPARTAMENTO DE

SEGURIDAD DEL ESTADO (DSE, DEPARTMENT OF STATE SECURITY) WERE

BEING RECALLED FROM FOREIGN POSTS BECAUSE THERE WAS NO MONEY TO

PAY THEM, ACCORDING TO LIEUTENANT SEGUNDO FERRERO CUEVAS OF THE

DSE. LT. FERRERO SAID THAT THERE WERE ABOUT 800 DSE MEN OUTSIDE

CUBA, AMONG WHOM

WAS THE CHIEF IN MEXICO, WHO HAD TO RETURN FOR

THE SAME REASON. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: IF THIS FIGURE IS

CORRECT, IT MUSI REFER TO DSE AGENTS AS WELL AS OFFICERS.

(FIELD COMMENT: LI. FERRERO, FORMERLY A MEMBER OF THE SECRET

POLICE OF THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE UNDER BOTH PRESIDENT GRAU AND

PRESIDENI PRIO, WAS KNOWY AS A SUPPORTER OF ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA

This materlal contains Informatlon affecting the Natlonal Delense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

18, U.S.C. Sees. 793 and 794. the transmission

or. revelstion of which in any manner to an unsuthorkzed person is problbited by law

GROUP I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

neluded from outomatic

doungroding and

declassification

STATE/INR

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY

• REPCINCLANT

AIR JCS SECDEF. NSA NIC XXX USIA OCI ONE OCR

ORR 00

FBI

I&NS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION - DISSENINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

TDCSDB-315/01349

64

IN

PAGE

21122

2

SERNA UNDER THE CASTRO RÉGINE. THE DSE OFFICER REFERRED TO AS

"CHIEF" IN MEXICO MAY BE MANUEL EUGENIO VEGA PEREZ OR ALFREDO

MIRABAL DIAZ. SEE CSCI-316/00685-64, DATED 14 AUGUST 1964 :)

(HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: AS FAR AS IS KNOWN, MOST OF THE CUBAN

INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL STATIONED OUTSIDE CUBA ARE MEMBERS OF

THE DIRECCION GENERAL DE INTELIGENCIA (DGI, GENERAL DIRECTORATE

OF INTELLIGENCE), THE CUBAN FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE.

BOTH VEGA AND MIRABAL ARE MEMBERS OF THE DGI .)

2. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, (ALSO SENT MEXICO CITY) .

END OF MESSAGE

• CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-F-T •

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

