# 104-10428-10213

## Page 1

104-10428-10213

(

SECRET

DO M1018 PiATINGDO.

cir!

UST SLOTTED C

1h 59 ur R ni 2700

......

RI. FILE

A 3

N

F

vA 0/Ja1, 2003, c3/2F

EYES ONLY

T420205

ELAG 12

PAGE DI

TOR: 302349Z NOV 76

SECRET 392317Z NOV

76

S TAFF

SITE MEXICO CITY 385.65

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL RYBAK

PL VWCADET

5A/LA

REF: DIRECTOR 950609 (attached)

• 1, HOUSE COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS DID NOT CONTACT

STATION AS OF 1600 HOURS 39 NOVEMBER.

?, EVEN PRIOR TO RECEIPT OF REFERENCE STATION HAS

UNDERTAKEN SEARCH OF ALL FILES WHICH MIGHT CONCEIVABLY STILL

CONTAIN INFO RELATING TO OSWALD PRESENCE IN MEXICO CITY IN

1963, SEARCH STILL CONTINUING AND WILL ADVISE RESULTS•

3, REGARDING PARAGRAPH A OF REFERENCE, WISH PROTEST

IN STRONGEST TERMS AGAINST PROPOSED FULL PUBLIC DISCLO SUPE

OF AGENCY HOLDINGS RELATING TO OSWALD ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO

AS PROPOSED IN REFERENCE, WHILE WE WOULD HAVE NO OBJECTION

TO DETAILED AND TRUTHFUL SUMMARY OF

OSWALD ACTIVITIES AS

..SUCH, THE OFFICIAL REVELATION OF OUR

RELATIONSHIP,

AND AGENT TRUE NAMES INCLUDING POSSIBLE IDENTITY OF

LESSEE OF HOUSES USED FOR PHOTO SURVEILLANCE WOULD HAVE

DEVASTING IMPACT HERES IT WOULD EMBARRASS OUR FRIENDS, DELIGHT

SECRET

PEPRODUCTION JY OTHER THAN

EUING OFFICE IS PROMISITSO.

I ST A

ISC

SANGEL

16!

-IN 115271

MEXI

38565

dead and

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ME LEN PLE 3T°

ISOW.UNIT NOTHIED.

at Fert"

UNiT

LESOTTED

FIF

•FILE

N

4202.63

SECRET

AI.

VB

REPICOUCTION: SY OTHER

ISSUIC

•HAP

OFFiCE Is

PRCHIBITED

STAFF

5

IN 115271.

NEXI

38565

EL AD 12

PAGE D2

TOR: 302349Z NOV 76

OUR ENEMIES, REDUCE UTILITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF ONGOING

OPERATIONS AND EXPOSE NEW LOPEZ PORTILLO ADMINISTRATION TO

BARRAGE OF QUESTIONING ABOUT

WHETHER

SUCH

STILL CONTINUING AND SO FORTH.

4,

IN OUR JUDGMENT ANY SUCH OFFICIAL REVELATION OF

WITH

MAY EFFECTIVELY TERMINATE

(KD&ADGER) AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES, IN THIS CONNECTION SEE

MEXICO CITY 585206108

1112196)

DATED 26

'NOVEMBER WHICH REFERS FO PROBLEM

WE MAY ALREADY BE FACING WITH NEW MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT.

SIT SHOULD BE REMEMBERED THAT

JIN MEXICO ARE

UNCONSTITUTIONAL, AS MINIMUM, OFFICIAL STATEMENT ABOUT

WOULD CONFIRM THE WRITINGS OF PHIL AGEE

AND JOSEPH SMITH.

5, IT ALSO SEEMS TO US THAT SUCH STATEMENT WOULD BE

IN VIOLATION OF OUR OBLIGATION TO PROTECT SOURCES AND METHODS.

IF AGENCY CAN RELEASE INFO ON SENSITIVE SOURCES AND METHODS:

AND PUBLICIZE PAST

OPERATIONAL RELATIONSHIPS WITH SPECIFIC

INDIVIDUALS, IT IS DIFFICULT TO SEE ON WHAT GROUNDS WE COULD

GRITIZE THOSE WHO MAKE SIMILAR PUBLICATIONS FOR THEIR OWN..

PURPOSES, WHICH TO THEM, MAY SEEM EQUALLY LEGITIHATE.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

4: 35305

HUNG

(

Buis DY

TOTAL GORIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION DY DINES

THAN

iSSUING OFFICE IS

PROHISITES

SOÄlNiT NOilED

ANGE COPE

DION ViVIT

STAFF

BY

- _AT

KF. FILE

VR

N

F

T 926203

5 1

16

ETAN 12

PAGE 03-03

TOR: 3023497 NOV 76

IN 115271

MEXI 38555

6, IN SUM, WE BELIEVE THAT ANY PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ALONG THE LINES OF PARA FOUR OF REF WILL GET US INTO EVEN

MORE TROUBLE THAN WE ARE IN AT PRESENT: WE VOLUNTEER JUDGMENT

THAT WE ARE IN THE TROUBLE WE ARE IN BECAUSE AT TIMES IN PAST

WE SEEM TO HAVE FORGOTTEN THAT WE ARE AND SHOULD BE AN

INTELLIGENCK AGENCY, PROPOSED REVELATION OF

RELATIONSHIP,

AND AGENT TRUE NAMES WOULD CAUSE

WIDE-SPREAD SKEPTICISM THAT WE ARE IN FACT INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY, E"2, IMPDET.

S E

---

