# 104-10180-10215

## Page 1

104-10180-10215

/1

_PHOCESSING

DISPATCH

Chief, Brecia

LASSIOn

SECRET

flairs: toff

!i

ADVANCE

FROM

Chief of station, All!?

COPY

SUBACT

Operational/CYPOCCIA IRDIAN CERAUFOX ..

#T preralor Cancioate Insise tariet Arede

ACTION REQUIRED. SILKE

19 1961296 RidER

MEASCIAUTERS OUSE

CAO ANCE MOCUDE

ABSTRACT

T0 ACre

Required: resuest for Headquarters Pevier of files • lara S

O$ 10G0 ANEREI (Peter S. DI rEDVENO)

in Havara

It operator candidate,

whose nare he

This candidate has spotted and

finst contacted by AMPANIC-l, who passed the lead over to

first contacted the candidate on the porch

of rededpercedes tenz Arency at ralecon and Principe Streets,

ard AMIREl then contacted pubject in the latter's apartnent in

block on the l

Eide ording located in the riddle evene

This burruing had. i store in the firs

and the apartments were

very arall lone bedroon and bath, livin-dining room corbina

o5 Elon and a small kitchen).

subject was at the tine working in

and giving with lis safe dad a small childe

Subject was about

ycars .old

29

Subject had experience as a professinal VT onerator

and worked a

clandestine "T sat for tl:cl

Javainst the satista revine.

ANPANIC-1 was a renter of the

Jand spotted subject through a leader of the

_for whom

Subject worked in the underground.

subject was trained for a weck or so by AMFLEM-l in a

safehouse located at

which had been obtained

for that purpose by APTOX-I.

AkrOX-I attended the training

sessions as a lookout,

but neither A!'FOX-l nor AMCLEN-I knew

the identity and address of the traince.

Training included the

clandertine operation

of a RS-1, the use of signal plans, the

of pade in coding and decoding.

and personal security.

and can red in te on ero, ent of s

and with the approval of co Coorge D. SCOrCORY,

• at the time and to whon full rerorts were turned in on the

(Continued

Distribution:

3 = liesdquarters

¡ CROSS REFLETCE TO

0000 1

Eaststud to arrests

Erieste te

ducticane

CLASSIFICATICA

CECRET

DATE TYPEO

25 Jan. 63

DISPAICH STARCE ANO MULGER

UFCA-7439

HENCQUARTERS THE AMBUR

19-120-33-5413

DATE OISANTCHED

1953

A/pS

---

## Page 2

#das 505ere, 88885 A-Site

MUNIINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SF.CPPT

(94407433

trainine und die luentity of the candlente

"u! face was never

stane-ly for possible use at a lafor

Ter that tur one tons flues here establiched ly AUrDa

and reportad to his

not surplied with a itoser

and no dinal plans nor fads were inqued to dir.

Aitial recalls Subject was very secure in his clandestine

contacts and

Desite estal-liched bona fides, AMIRE-l

had consideralle trouble in rainine cubject'a confirence. and

three preliminary contacts vere necassary sefore retting down

last contacted by Allilal at Subject's

apartent described above

In January or Tehruary 1961e At

this time subject was still willing and ready to work.

1e, lore on reported by At

is assuned. that Headquarters files on

the activities.of

reports and information reperted by irrefoples of the training

Ve would appreciate

leadquarters assistance in ascertaininn subject's identity and

present whereabouts in order to determine if he could still be

used onerationally Inside

tarret ared.

ANPANIC-1 has been

errinated by JAVE fi Branch because of weakness in his persond

scurry possibles believed best not to contact him on thi

END OT CISPATCH

2*530

OUASSEICATION

VEGASMOUS ASUOUS8DITIO9

I continue

PAGENO

• 2.

---

