104-10408-10218}

a on
, UNITED STATES GOVE iMENT

Memorandun.) ; )

TO : Chief, SRS DATE: 9 October 1967

Thru : DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS

FROM ? M, D, Stevens

SUBJECT: CAIN, Richard S.
#272 14)

i 1, Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 DCS memo- '

| vandum on Subject, which in turn made reference to previous DCS!

{memoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967 and to an Office of Security
memorandum dated 29 May 1967. The 5 June 1967 memorandum
enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents from the Chicago
Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with
the comment that "It appears DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee
Harvey OSWALD, et al." —_

2. Subject, it is obvious, had been a source of information
3 regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President
; Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee
held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard
! CRILEY (#346 116). He also was the source of information regarding
) the alleged attempted recruitment into the Communist Party of young
Cubans in the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accord~
ing to the Chicago office was "one of } (SAS) leads
obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ, #444260)
Jis #199499, The documents also indicated
that in February 1964 CAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated
by Eldon S, COHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS
Chicago office who believed his purpose was to learn whether or not
CAIN was in fact on a two-month's sick leave from the COOK County
Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on a political under
: cover assignment which CGHEN inferred involved tapping the tele~
phones of gubernatorial candidate Charles H. PERCY and other
| political figures.



13-00000

ye ES ye

3. During review of GAIN's Security file, I noted 2 message

regarding him from Mexico Gity, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned
a"Willard ‘a ANDREWS, reputable American businessman i in Mexico,"

who obvidusly had haa contact of some kind with CAIN;- as well as with

a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that

CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. II (Acopy of this memo-

xandum is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces

on GAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained regard.

ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, nor a claim

he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated. The

Station was advised that he did have (ox had had) a legitimate detective
laboratory in Chicago.

——— fet OA

. 5. The firsttime CAIN came to the attention of the Security Office {-
was when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request :
stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which

he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with branches in i
Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico
was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police
methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector;

and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed
Central American country.

6, In June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being
deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

a. Carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles

>. Impersonating 2 Mexican Government official
(He had identification as an investigator for the
Mexican Treasury Office.)

¢. Violating his tourist permit by working at his
detective office and at the Mexican Treasury



13-00000

——
7. Subject was subsequently of interest to the DCS.in September |

}1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his being asked

jto respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain |

Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On
10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandurh which furnished
mmuch of the above information on CAIN.

8, On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he
had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafi
in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacted for information
las to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, if so,

or what purpose. The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were
contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25
lay 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN
 Isince 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had
een the source of information, These had to do with anti-Castro Guban
ctivities, procurement of arms, etc.

9. On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there is a
current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that
there be no further contact with him at this time.

10, The 1 September 1967 copy of Life magazine jen an

article titled "Brazen! Emyire of Organized Crime," in. itis
stated that ant iS ‘Clantanns Head of the Chicago Co cay is "still
running things-by-re oneal ft from a hide-out in ico. « » Where

whe poses as Riccardo, SCALZETTIY The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA's
‘erst while chauffeur dnd courier, is more familiar to Chicagoans as
Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago oliceman and more recentl}
BO Pp \y

a private investigator."



13-00000

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to September
articles in Life magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst-
while chauffeur and courier of Sam GLANCANA. The second of these
articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,
of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Louisiana

eroat
AW OS Sar

M. D. Stevens
Attachments: articles

MDS/cer

‘SECRET


13-00000

VERRLY
i 5)

(che Covert Security Clearance was amended and
approved in March 1951 to include Morgan's use
in providing covert legal support for’ opera-
tions in the form of a "cut out",*legal advice,
transmission of funds, and other assistance of
a legal nature in connection with DDO projects.'
Since Subject may have been utilized by the DDO,
it is felt that any decision to release infor- ;
mation regarding Morgan should be deferred to
\the DDO. —

: (at is noted that while only the afore-_
mentioned subject file exists regarding Morgan,
in his capacity as Robert A. Maheu's personal
attorney, Morgan is mentioned sporadically in
the Maheu, Harvey, and Roselli files. In 1967
Maheu was interviewed and advised that he had

- briefed Morgan regarding the details of his
involvement in the Agency+sponsored Castro
assassination plots. Morgan's current asso-
ciation with Maheu, professional and/or personal,
is unknown. Morgan is currently practicing law
in the District of Columbia law firm of Welch
and Morgan.

c. Joseph Shimon--No Office of Security
subject file exists regarding Joseph Shimon,
aka: Joseph Shiman, However, he is mentioned
in the Johnny Roselli file as a personal friend
of Roselli, It is further noted in the Roselli
file that Shimon knew Maheu, but the nature and
extent of their official/social relationship is
unknown. Shimon is described as a former
District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Depart-
ment (MPD) inspector who was discharged from the
D.C. MPD as a result of a conviction involving
wiretapping activities.

4, To date, no decision has been made as to the type and

form of response to be made to the Dade County Sheriff's Office
request, Additionally, a formal request. to the Office of

5

SECRET


Security has not been received. Office of Security files have
been searched and pertinent information reviewed. Pending a
decision as to what form the response, if any, will take, it
is recommended that the Office of Security files containing
information pertinent to the request be retained in a readily
available’status and no further action be taken at this time.

C27 E

Curtis R. Rivers

