# 104-10186-10265

## Page 1

104-10186-10265

*INTORM TION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This motortal entalna informatines alertina tho Rational Daleno ol Che L'allod Riato Mrio 1O Maina s l00 lapio

T1$8+

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FRETURN TO CIA

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT Ramiro RODRIGUEL Gomez

DATE DISTR

GSCI-316/00703-84

1 September 1964

Do Not Reproduce

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

1

CSCI-316/00695-64

25 Auguệt 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Warhington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. AL: gUS*. 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINOS ANE DEPIMITIVE, APPRAISAL ON CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

soulce A Pormer Cuban IS officer who servod with the Cuban Intelligence

Suaidee until April 1964.

l+adquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a series contalning personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information fron the records of this Agency.

It ts requested that the addressees tako no action on any ot

the Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Se RanIrS RODRIGUEZ Gomez, stated that he did not know RODRIGUEz

upon being re-queried concerning additional informatic"

cersonally.

While ho (source) was in Mexico he overheard

Manuel VEGA, pseudonym

"Marcos," the chief of Cuban Intelligence

-II: Mexico, say that RODRIGUEZ was the Direccion General de

Intolegencia (Genoral Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) chiel

In Brazil. (This is an amendment to the above referenced

.or...

5

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

STATE

DIA

ARARY

WAVT

AI#

REP

CINCLANT SINCSO *

(Nor-Field distributon inducatod by "ge".)

NSA

FBI 2

I&'S

IINFORMATLON RERORT

INFORMATLON REPORT

WIL SA'ECL

11 kiss

WE: YADR

A!IE

WLiSAR

1 CULLA

2 CI/REA

RID/AN

44. S.1 7 (1), NE 1 (2), CI P. RID 1

60018006

1 LX-1649

NO PROJECI (AMMUd/1:

CSC1-316/00703-64

COONCIMATING T1111

WIK: LD:=*%

CI/RSA

201-331829

PORNO

37 4-63

1

OBSOLETE PRETIONE BOITIONS

177%

3/BR

---

