104-10220-10111

TRANSMITTAL

of

oF
TOCS INFORMATION REPORT

[ream
=|aAasee OW tno. wi, an
4 WAVE-4343 (IN-19696)
NP (EMSiLAM-1)
Lialsoa *

oo

HANOUNG TNS FRUCTION

CONTROLLED, DISSEM

SuINTIERNALRUSERONIAY

corms coment nina TRUS OFFICERS)



APPROVED Fon py
Cl HISTORICAL REVEN aaey
~~

CENTRAL INTELLIGEACE AGENCY

Ley ew nitea ty ceening, of he Mamenage Leon, Tate WM UNE tows

aclah contain ttermetion atiactite the Met-enet Outense of
see rascer eae

BE Goa" se" geuaincse we taretebon of ehh oe eee mason

DISSEM

. CONT! :
REPORT NO, TOCS DB=3/656,669 i

County COBA/LATIN AMERICA
suutct_ VISIT OF FORWR CUDAN PRESIDENT CARUOSoAIE Om 16 SEFTEXBSR 1969

BRIO SOCARRAS TO LATIN AYSRICAK COUNTRIES
preceoence ROUSE

pareor 12 SEP SEMPER 1963 REFERENCES IN -19696
INFO,
mace 8 TED STATES, MIAME
DATE ACO. SEPTEMRER’ 1963)
APPRAISAL
7

KOUS CONTACTS

souRcE 20 HAS ih
'S RELIARIL(TY CANNCT BE

oe 1, ENSURE DEPARTING MIAMI, ¥LORYOA, BY AIR FOR CARACAS,
% CUUAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

YESE7UNLA, ON 11 SPPPEYEFS 1963 PIV

PRIO SOCARRAS TALKTO WITH FURMER CU3AN: COLONEL PEDRO VALDIVIA,
PRE) SALD (UAT BE YAO LNSTRUCTIONS ALD WAS CARRYING A RERSAGE e L

+ PRESIDENT LUIS SOMCZA TO THE CHIESS OF

. FSCS PORVER NICARAGUAS

MOEYCCRATIC LEFT: PRESIDENT ROWULO BETANCOURT OF VENEZUELA,

ve.
PRSSIDS: 7 JUAN BOSCH OF TES DS
BUT VOSE FICGEEAS, AND COVERNOR LUT

INYGQAN REPUSLIC, YORVER COST

RICAN FR:

i RICO,

3 TES PURZOZF OF KIS TRIP, PRLO SAL,

SO GEAR PREV CAN VON! Ss CSA 41
CLASSIFICATION x DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SAGER -E-T
cONTROMED SIRE

Sr TREASURY IMSS

cP OR.

ae

enn

JS 1Kb  onsourrs murioce samons.


TOCSUB-3/656 , 669

CONTROLLES DISSEM

THE PROPER PROSPECTIVE. PR{O WILL TRY TO CONVINCE THEM THAT
SOWERODY HAS TO ELIMINATE COMMUNISM. PRIO SAID THAT SQMOZA 1s
NOW BECOMING THE LEADER IN LATIN AMERICA BECAUSZ® OF THE ROLE HE
IS PLAYING AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO. ‘

3. AFTER THREE DAYS IN CARACAS, PRIO WILZ, VISIT ROSCH.
UPON HIS RETURN TO MIAME, PRIO WILL TRY TO WORK OUT A CONCILIATION
BETWREN ANTONIO DE VARONA, LEADER or RESCATE DEYCCRATICO
REVOLUCIONARIO (REVOLUTIONARY DPYOCRATIC RESCUZ), AND MANUEL
ARTIMS, LEADER OF THE MOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACIGN REVOLUCIONARIA
(MBR, MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) , SQ THAT T&EY CAN.
WORK TOGRTESR ON TAR "SOMOZA PLAN,“

‘4, FIELD DISSEM: crncso, CINCLANT,

END OF MESSAGE

CASE ATE» ON TIATION CONIREAS
S-8-C-f

CONTROLLEA OYSSEM

Cr

(© INUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION REPC

Prey creer
