# 104-10273-10326

## Page 1

110410273-10326]

YEAR

@ NUMBER

1

DOC. NO.

18027

NEW DOCUMENT RECORD

Instruetions for Divisions and Stoffs:

1. Fill in and Sign on line !!.

2. Use back of form for any additionol comments.

3

4

5

ĐP

oa@oz às da

Ф351

DOCUMENT

DESCRIPTION (Cirele il approprote) 130 CHARACTERS)

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

FOAM

DISPATEM

LETTER

MEMO

BETEN PH

MIRGRAM

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERSI

IN 944357

8

Jun

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

DiR

CLASS

#HERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERE)

REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS)

DD0 %

DO FILE NUMBER 120 CHARACTERSI

S

SUBJECT (8O CHARACTERS)

Written /verbal report ne Pres. Laugerud.

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

DATE

OF

REVIEW

2P AUG 1987

Determinations:

_ A. Release in fuld text

B. Release

in sanitized form

С.

Deny in toto

D.

Defer

decision to (Specify in line 8)

H.

Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFEI DECSION TO. (10 CHARACTERS) COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTEFS)

* EW

C LA 55

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

M. Keck

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FELG REVIEMNE OFFICER

E.O. 12356

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

(B3

FOIA

8A B5 B6 B7C

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government.

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

7.

Location

of CIA overseas installation

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonyn

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14. Name

15.

of an FBI agent

FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (])

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(15) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (0) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

REMARKS IIF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE! (40 CHARACTERS)

SIGNATURE 'OFFICI

REMARKS 1160 CHAFLÖTER:

Hall, Davis et al; 300t 00t0 Jul Jul59

BOX # 5L:; 3. GERALD PATRKK HEMMING.

This Formes Unclossitied Unles: The Clossilication is Cheeied

end The Iniormatior belon i: completed.

CL BY:

DECL OADE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

perrord?

- Be de

ise wormwi…..

or comes 23- Vmm

SECRET

Zuranbenan

O-FICE 15 PПOHIВ.TEС

STAFE"

Fit F

981÷95

811761

PAGE B1

TOR: 082242₴ JUN 76

SECH ET CHEZZOE JUN 7O STAFF

CITE

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

1: 844557

REFS: A.

B.

(1N 937052)

SNOT SENT

(IN 890367)

1

(1)

PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

¡VERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL. ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

ON REF & CASE AND RESULTS, ACCORDING REPORT AND IN : NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT OMINO WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

EIMER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINGE AUGUST 75.

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

OUT 15 SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

• REPORT AND MI CLAIN THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING INO STATION TRAGESY, HERE ALSO

INVOLVED HITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISYED HIM IN

ACQUIRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN 9O GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 65) REQUESTS

BY LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

in stal pu as el

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCT TE ON -

"AUG 1987

CL FFVIEW BY -

0102225

I DECL I DOWNGR TO MAT

REVW ON .

CATION 13(2/+)

FULL TEXT COPY - DU NOT RELEASE

18027

---

## Page 3

13-00000

TIE SIC DISSI AY

SONUNIT NOTTIU

ANCE COPY EEIEESLOTTEO

TION UNIT

PF. FILE

- IOTAL E9213

SECRET

FUN BY

REPHOOUCTION BE PECTE

ISSUING

OFFICE

PACHICITE.

STAFF

VR

T

981395

E14767

PAGE 82

TOR: 0822422 JUN 76

IN 944357

A• IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREÄTMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

•AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIN HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

F. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATEMALA.

Do REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

•E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA. ("

SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLESAILY

BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY.

Die aralien plan:.

3a. literation unriedala to clave.

In etal on cod

FULL TEXT COPY - DU NUT RELEASE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

te edite fraperien

•IOSAL SOPIES

SECRET

RFFRODUCTION

UP OTHEN THAN

ISSUING CIRCE IS PRONENED

STAFF

_CO-Y ISY DELOITEU.

AF. FILE

AT.

VR

F

937395

PAGE D3

TOR: 8822427 JUN 76

IN 944557

4.

Danismen ia Stalen arel?

5. Station quay to hact.

FULL JEXT COPY - DU NUT RELEASE

---

## Page 5

13-00000

_FER

•MUNIT NOTI'IED

RF . FILE

T 981595

E1A76%

5.

FILE:

are won

19Ta: C0009_

SECRET

-----_

1i2y 108

AEPRODUCTIDN

ISSUING

CFFICE IS PROMININE

STAFF

VR

PAGE 54-04

TOR: 0822427 _JUN 76

IN 944357

SECRET

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

---

