# 104-10187-10012

## Page 1

104-10187-10012

BOUTING AND D01M

ON ABACH ROPE

TOTAL COPIE:

SECREY

0C/WH/B&F

ENT:

7763

DATE:

9 MAY 969

CAN SECTATIAT QUINATION

DAB

COul

Dou no

Elmer. RAN. AS MpSIBLE 16 Assp

Blains 11 60)

09 23 09 2 MAY G9

AP 10991

00896

CITE DIRECTOR

SECRET

TO M MEXICO CITY

LIMOUSINE

REF: HMMT - 9661

1. ON TNE BASIS OF THE AUDIT REPORT COVERING I NOVEMBER

1967 TO 31 DECEMBER 1968, LIMOUSINE'S INDEBTEDNESS IS 89, 424:00:

WITH REFUND OF SA, 096.80, LIMOUSINE WILL OWE THE DIFFERENCE OF

$1: 327.00 REMAINING IN TIE MEMORANDUM ACCOUNT.

2. THE STATION MAY WRITE OFF THIS BALANCE, IF APPROPRIATE,

AS PAYMENT FOR SERVICES RENDERED BY LIMOUSINE FOR THE PURCHASE

AND HANDLING OF LIMESA/LIEMPTY HOUSES.

3. FILE: 201 - 005762

50-6-74/6.

END OF MESSAGE

AG/WH/I.

AC/WH/Ss

AUDIT. STAFF

(TELECON)

JHar

JAM V• BROE

С/иНО

FELLADINO OFFICI

COOXDINATIRO OFFICEME

SECRET.,

REPAODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

DC/WH/B&F

AUTMIATICATINO

OBFICEH

COPY NO.

---

## Page 2

•DISPATCH

CLASSFICATION

SKCRIT

PROCESSING ACTION

BAILED FOR ONCE TREE

NO DEDINING MOURNE

ONEY QUALIFIO DESTR

CAM JUDGE EROTIZIS

ANCONLA

Actine chicl al staciea Mexico auxile

ADMIN/FINANCE/LINSSA

LINOUSINE Indebtedness 1o ROFIRM

LIED • CURINGS

Action Required:

..Para 1

References:

(a)

HAOW - 1633-4

(c)

DRACTOR 1014 5 Jay 175 1965

•1..

Roforence (c) authorized a loan of $12. 000.00 to

LIMOUSINE for

the construction.of an apartoent building. Repayment

of this loan, per agreement forwarded to Headquarters by reference

(b), was to have beco partially made by renting the top-floor

apartient of his bullding to any person

designated by the station

rent-free at a calculated value of $184.00 per month.

Subsequently

It was orally agreed that we would credit his indebtedness with

$240.00 per month, since the latter amount is the actual fontal

fee,•

as part of refereuce (b) ngreement (paragraph 6),

LIMOUSINE waS

to have refunded all rents pald him by the lessee

for occupancy of the LILYRIC top-floor avartment for the first

twenty-four months:

ROFIRM paid LIMOUSINE $5,760.00 for rental

of the subject apartment during this period,

of which he refunded

$720.00 in May 1966, leaving a balance of $5,040.00.

As indicated by recent SGDIAL audit findings, LIMOUSIE

is indebted to WOFIRM as of 31 December 1968 as follows:

b.

$384.00 per paragraph 4 of reference (b) agreement.

$5,010.00 for rents received from WOFIRA, por

paragraph 2 above.

Attachment:

Agreement u/s'c

Distribution:

3 - C/WHD w/att u/s/c

- continued

€ E5t6 R00 E

CROSS REFIRENCE TO

DISPARUN SYMBOL ANO JUMBLE

201-005762

CASSIFICATION

SECRET

| DATE

25 March 1969

HOS ALI NUMBER

50-6-74/6

---

## Page 3

• CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HABIT - 9611 Pago 2

4.

However. sinco. it

was the undorstanding between the

Station and LIMOUSINE

that his indebtedness to WOFIRM war $1,098.80;

arrived at as followa:

Original Loan

b.

Less refunds

C.

Balance

$12, ,000.00

(7,903.20)

4,090,80

and based on paragraphs l and 2 abovo, Headquarters concurrence.

1e roquosted to liquidate.

LINOUSINE's Indebtedness with his refund

0f $4,096.80. An early reply would be appreciatéd.

FORM

G4.0

1401

PAGE MIS

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

CONTINUED

2

---

## Page 4

ecle congelesle.

Poetich

Dand teresa

amanhando cald do Dulce dee est

"vc en the coruto

2.

micos and cacaine e do eter

19 de coorpo das caso dos cacalas cloco mit do lud bonindaro do deze

¿coce tootara d Coord do caco coaca Decado de Che Ma De Cascaracas

as centendo coa duo (a) pedro neto catedaded coce en loco genes

concila, troncias city rotas.

Corcoreno era Mint do concidoreh goad 68 Cid Cercadil:

o. doide

cc00à 200l Pond 08 1PA03100 Cospondo Co tão eardocava

carmino Mto WaGRe 26 coccadando Me Che passeando Duro de guteros 8

Vaila

to tont:

11tà

1115

Port

So Coroaco, cano co de coccido cortaded chorar do tudida

21At

---

## Page 5

vich bas

Cil conto lo Samo do Cooto Ca Cata

Macco Cald, Maddet

---

## Page 6

DEFO

DISPATCH

Chlet of Station, Mexico CIty

CLASSAICADOR

Si CRET

Chief, western Hemisphere Division

Loan to LIMOUSINE

АСТОВ ПРОДИКЕО • ВЕРНІВ

Referenc

FECIESSING ACTION.

WANTED FDR BEDENING

CAN CAN I DINI

CAN NOGE INDUCNG:

MC ROFER

HMMA -35945

НИНА-34436

H0M-16334

2 December 1968

10 April 1968

19 April 1968•

LIMOUSINE'& loan In the amount of $8,706.87 is extended

as requester "atri 31 March 1969 for reasons stated in

Reference A.

LINOUSINE should be advised that this is the

last extension that can be granted to thie loan, and if the

sale of his property does not materialize as scheduled, he

should look for another source of funds to pay. off the

debt..

Amin 4 Diner

Norris W. DANICONE

Distributton:

Orig. & 1 - COS/Mexico City

JAN 2 ₫ 1907

DOC. MICRO, 2E4.

CROSS REFERENCE 10

201-005762

IS COPY

RI-1

CR-1

107м

AY GUi

4

WH/I

53.

LiSE PREVIOUS EDITION.

COPY.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMN-16963

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

18 JAN 1968

3 January

1969

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-74/8

OFFICE

WH/1

ORIGINATTRO

CITICER

At Malland

TYPIST

COORDINATING

nrg

EIT.

6954

O5FICE SYMBOR

DATE

C/WH/1

CATHIES MADE

I, J. Kaufman Bern lairpa.

C/WH/B&F

C/wH/ss

8 1A

RELEASING

OFFICE SYM

DATE

DANCER'S SIGHATURE

WII/D

3 Jan. '63

€ 401

IDA

---

## Page 7

SECRAT

(WHEN FILLED IND

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. nil in Sock 2 on back. Dotach back 1p2g 49771

and forward to RID.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

I tilo no, and title shown are not proper.

insert proper tile no. bolow and forward

document to RID/AN.

ing prosorvation.

FROM:

PROPER FILE NO

EXT. 4239

TO

ROOM

NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

bV.752

COMMENTE

G1-50

TUDE GT-7

DATE

RECRINED PORTIAORS

C/WH//

12-10-68 93

Deuri

1077

...

11 DE0 1969

2200 18045

2-5:

The should he net (reach)

in the linist i defect,

Les mole thad: Their die den

is Tashlug and perpete.

lest the seits, fles oliver

intolerable.Let. Accur

ів упи спосшелик

MICROFILMED

BEC 1 0 1968.

DOC. MICRO. BE

(SH!

12.

13.

Rickel

15.

16.

87.

TRACE

REQUEST.

DATE MICROFILMEO

1-49

610g

USE PREvICUS

EDITIONS

Wit"

ABSTRACT

INDEX

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMDER ( PRIMARY CODED

50 - 6-74/6

DOCUMENT DATE

2. Dec 68

SECRET

this Castestinsi

sis file with

waiting sheet

1355

DOCUMENT NUMBER

HUMA 35945

140)

---

## Page 8

DISPATCH

ChO DI 1810

TONG DEST

AT QUALIUD DESK:

eCh101

ol Station:

Taxico CIty

LINOUS DE LILA LILTRIC, OLON

aLeroncest

graph

50g 309)

10 4or 1141068

110 Арт 1121968

L1N003 ME proporty deser ibod:

dela

yed by the

TaC

reguirema

hich rogu

lates the financ

ctivition

sada

expectanto real tse mibstant inly cash, from the

Kind binself strapped. for

cost becsuse her hasthe

opensolo holdiug

to? Land over a auch longer period"

plannedo, His pe

nances areralso tight quayto

operations 01

0:196501

NFOr

Longhty bospital stays which big

I rolet horabovo reasons LIKOUS INB

Ds ton on hits

Pollow las ista close

to

tho

Stotion by

construc. loa loan which

should have been paid off in

June 1968

51,310.008N

Distribution:

C/office of finanes

OSS REFERENCE

01-00576

50-8-58/3

DISPATCH STASGI AND FUMBER

EHRA:95945

CLASSIFCATION

BECRET

3 Degember 1068

MOS FILE NUMBER

50- 674/6

---

## Page 9

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH•

BBCBET

.mola-35045

LIMBBA proporty rofund for

1967

33, 332.6110

TEA relund fo

pertod

dan to 31 Ml+196

.20, 290.79

-THESA refund for perio

1 Aug to 31 Dee 1969

(estimate):

15,000.00

108,833.34MN

108,893. 3AMN equale 58,186867 (US/CY)

The underaigned hio been ta close touch with LIMousne

on hta finnetal problenn and can cortily that le to temporarily

in Cinancial Stratte bocause be unexpectedly bold a piece of

land for almont two more roars than ho anticipated and that the

final cale 1e clone to completion. Thie la a major tract of

lond 1n which LINOWNB vill realise a porconal profit of alsost

one nillion dollars. ¿Tho mgnitudo of this profit la the reason

that LIMOUS NE has boon holding the land tonaciously and golng

into the hole in the process.

for the above reasons and tho rensons given in paragraph

B of RIYA, tho station atrongly recommende that LinoUSINS's

in the anount of

$8,706,67 (US/CY) be extended to 31 March 1869.

for Willard C. CURTIS

CLASSIFICATION

330

USE PREVIOU EDITION.

1401

COATINUEO

---

## Page 10

DISPATCH

• 06855084110S

PROCESSING ACTION

MARRIO FOR INON KIC

Cheer,

lit?

Division

cilei:

Finnner

ONLY QUALMUD DISE

CAN JOGI 1N011I4G

Chict.nf. tration

LINOLS IN LINES RELUCT - RON GO LEAGUS THE

LORD • BRIEREACES

Refercices:

13A-21236

1968

10 Auril 1010

1:

The tinal sale at LInCUSth's property described In

TaTaclaph 1 of

lie 1

dhas, been

Insurance compantes

delage by the necessity for the

sappels,

to benin noproval of various plans. (sevar

electricity, etc.. from tle approprinto Gol axencies

prior to signimed sales contrel.

stipulated by the arency which regulates

These requirenents aro

of insurance companies.

the liminctal activitlos

have been not

111 ol those bureaucratic requirements

Ascender 1908.

and musIe expocts the sale lo become

ilmnl ti

He esports do realice substantial cash from tho

sile in lebruary on March 1066.

In

the neantime LIMOUSINE

centlues to find himeld strapped los cash because he has the

continuing exponse of holdter the land over a mch longer pertod

chan he had planned.

Ille porsonal timances are also ticht due to

to complicated operattons with longity hospttal

wife underwent in

lucite

stays which his

con all of the above roasons LIMOUSIN!

•requests an extension on his loan to hormal until 31 March 1969.

to the

Folloving is a close projection of LIMOUSIND'S Indobtedness

Station by 31 December 1968 (bINOUSIN% accounts semi-annually) :

Balance of LILite property

construction loan which

should have been paid ois in

June 19d8

31, 210.00MN

MICROFILMED

DEC 1 © 1968

DOC. MICRO. BER.

Dis

6201-005762

050-1-55/2

¡bution:

CASTI

C/Office of

Finanee

CS COPY

DISPASON SYMBOL AND RUMBLR

NN0- 359-45

GASSIFCAIION

BECRIT

DATE

?. December 1068

MOS FRE NUMBER

10-6-74/11

.....,.

---

## Page 11

CONTINUATION OF

DISPI

periou

(est (mate)

15

000.00

- 108,853 3440 cuuals.

on

33

The

hisar ti

In titan

land

TO.

initl

In no

one

n111

that LIMOUS INs

Intonchoshole.

SIN

per

prorit omadmos

tidenots thiszprott:

gasathe reason:

ther

holding

Cho land tone lously and solng

process:

4.

For

he above reason and the reasons elven i paragraph

DOC RAFA

chio

Station

Scronsly recommends thate incusses loin

niche hmountu

$8

,706.00/ (US/CY) abe extended to starch

1969,

Milara an

CS COPY

E

R

---

## Page 12

SECRET

36 Soptember 1008

BURMORANDUS FOR

So Nathan Le Ferra

FRON

3U0 JECT

rollable source reported the visit te

the

Soviet basay In Moxico City of an unidentified Anerican

looking male on the afternoon of 18 September 1008, Thia

individual entered the Soviet Anbosy at 1600 hours the:

afternoon of 18 Septomber. Ho was seen oxitin at 1610 poure.

The above mentioned Individual vas coen driving a

To uss had California

licenso plates BOH 871. License plate had yollow letters:

egainet a black background. It la roquented tuat your offico

rosolve the omorship of this car and inform tole offico of the

rosulte.

019, 339

G. U. YARAILANT: WED

Distribution:

Ox1g - Addressee

1 = 50-8-1011

1 = 50-24/A

• BEANBALL (give to RIGGS)

1 - Neno Chronc

8 - Hqs pouch (sive to FARMILANT)

ATTACIMER? C to.

EMMA 35,521, 30 September 1968

for Chief, SB Division

SECRET

---

## Page 13

DISPATCH

CLASSIICAIION

PROCISSING ACTION

Ch108 05 Station,

Chief, Vi D1018100

Chief of Station, Mexico CIty

O PARUIN LILYRIC BEDCOAT - Yorwarding Of Photograph

POURED RIDiRERiES

RXPERKICKS:

(A)

MARKED FCR PEDEBESE

NO NETING EQUED

OMIY QUALIID DISE

CAN JUDGE INDINING

MICROMA

(B) • ANXICO CITY 5416

1, Porwarded herewith an stated in Paragraph (2) of

Referenco (B) aro the photographs of the individual soon entering

the Boviet Embadsy In Moxico City on the morning of 16 April 1968.

8... Il thie individual ta identifiasle to Station

le roquestod that loxico City be notified.

3. Thons photographs are not to be roleased outside torIn™.

for/willard C. CURTIS

Attachmonts:

Photographs

Distribution,

cos, L

] w/atte.

27: c/vi, s/o/atte.

CROSS REFERENCE 1O

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HHMA-34556

CLASSIFICARION

3 ЕСВЕТ

E1CI15

B:111:.

6471*

50 - 6- 74/6

DAlE

20 Aрт1l 1068

HOS TIL NUMBER

50-6-74/6

---

## Page 14

DISPATCH

22u 90 Tea

SECRIT

LauN

S49147

- Shtife bestern indisphere: Divicton

ALIAN REQUINIO - ELDRIALLS

cravacance

te pin

19:0563

ID VICE Of LILOUSING'S lung Distory of couperation cith

your station sod your conviction that to uill renay the oblica-

elon by the third quarter of calcudar year 1960, leadquartere

approves catcring to so septeuber luca the due date for repaymeut

of 56,023.11, the sua walch he will one us as of 30 June 1166.

Thercsa I. ESCHARDY

Distribution:

0:15. El= COS, licEiCo City

7el-65

in

Hainst

66 0010-17

CROSS RIFERENCE 10

DISCATCH SIMSOL AND NUMBER

Lant -36:34

CLASSIFICAMIOM

SECRET

DATE

00-1674/2

CALCIMING

I'C

$0020:

ni

CHRONO

bH/1

CarAT $1M321

C/TH/D

1 8034

CaiS

200÷54%8

BATE

Dianes contites

53

---

## Page 15

14-000

DISPATCH

CLASSIDICATIOIN

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKID FOR ODETINGS

Chief, WH Diviaion

0f11co of Finance:

NO MORNING MIQUIRED

ONLY QUALITIES DISK

CAN JUDGE INDINING

Chief o1 Station, MexIco CItYAL

SUORCE:

PILINOUS INE LIMESA LILYRIC - Request for a LOBa to LIMOUSINE

ALION PIQUIRED - RIFERENCES

it's:

The omership and bookkeeping of both the LINEsA and

LILYRIC properties ta carried in the name of a real estate company

which LIMOUSINS controle.

This company owns several other prop

orties including a major tract of land on the outskirts of Mexico

City which LIMOUSINE has been holding for resale at a profit.

However, his oxpenses on this property have been heavy over the

past year which bas left his company in a very short cash position.

LIMOUSINE delayed selling this tract pending completion of a high-

way which gives

access to the property and increases 1ts value.

This highway is now complete and LIMOUSINE ie working out the

details of the sale of this property to a consortium of insurance

compantes which will construct a housing developient.

LIMOUSINE

expects to start realizing substantial cash on this salo during

the third quarter of 1968,

•: :

"Due to the short cash position of his company LIMOUSINE

has asked the Station for a moratorium on the money due to the

Station from tbe LIMESA and LILYRIC properties for calendar year

1967 and the first half of 1968, LIMOUSINE'S indebtedness to the

station for calendar year 1967 1e as follows:

LIMESA - LIMOUSINE bRe turned in an accounting on his

expene for the LIMESA property which he has paid.

After de

ducting his expenses (water, taxes, etc.) he owes the Station

22,332. 61 MN.

continued

Distribution:

i2 C/WHD

2 = 011C0 of Finance 2c/OF

150-6-5512

13.261-105762

CROSS REJERENCE 1O

201-5762

50- 658/2

CS COPY

OSPATCH STABOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-34436

CASSUNCAIION

SBCBET

36 - 6 - 74/6

10 April 1968

MOS FILE NUMBER

50 - 6074/6

---

## Page 16

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA-34436

bo

LILTRIC - As detailed 1o HMMA-25310, 3 Februnry 1965,

LIMOUSINS is repaying his construction loan from the Station on

the LILYRIC property by ropaying to the Station the rent on the

LILTRIC apartment wiich te 3,000 MN por month or 36,000 MN por

year. 01 his origiol loan of 150,000 MN he bad repaid

98,790 M

by 31 Decembor 1966 leaving a balance 51,210 MN. According

repayment schedule he should have paid 36,000 MN during 1967

leaving a balance of 15,210 M. Also, according to the schedule,

the loan should be fully repaid by June 1968.

34

Tbus LIMOUSINE's lodebtedness to the Station for calendar

year 1967/18 5S, SS2,61 MN (22,332,61 for LIMESA and 36,000 MN fOr

LILYRIC) •

By 90 June 1968 bis Indebtedness will be increased by

approximately 25,210 MN (approximately 18,000 MN for LIKESA and

15,310 MN fOr LILYRICS

*LIMOUSINS! estimated total debt to the

Station by 30 Jane 1968 1s entimated at 86,542,61 MN (58, 332,61:

N for calendar yoar 1967 and 28,210 IN for the firet Bly monthe

o1 1968)

86,542.61 IN equale $6,923.11 (US/CY).

Therefore LIMOUSINS requests a loan of 68,332 kN,

the

amount already due to the Station for calendar year 1967 and a

second loan of approximately 28,210 MY which represents the money

which will be due on 30 June 1968 (LIMOUSINE accounts on a semi

annual basis) le has promised to repay all monies due to the

Station during the third quarter of 1968.

The Station strongly recommends approval of this loan

for the following reasons:

LIMOUSINE has been a faithful Station saset for many

years.

Fe bas nover refused a request of the Station's and has

offered his serrices continuously without renumeration (the Station

does give bia Christmas gifts)

financial dealings with the Statlon and we have no reason to belleve

that be will default on this debt.

be

Due to unexpected construction and repalr costs on

the LILYRIC building and a poor rental performance (this latter

1s partially due to the Station which has vetood soveral potential

tenants on security grounds), the LILIRIC building 18 in the

red. LINOUSINT doesn't expect it to be in the black for at least

two more years. Since the Station bas turned down several tenants,

1t 18 partially responsible for

this problems

6.. Please advise.

for/Willard

1 C.

• 201

53₫

LSE PREVIOUS LUPETE

SECRET

CONTINUIE

2..

---

## Page 17

DISPATCH

(LASSUKANS

SECR BT

Chief of Statton, Mextco City

PROLISSING MAN

no mond ma

ONE GUARDO ONE

CAN ANGI DOPENS

FECA

ches, testers Hemlaphere Divinion

в Міс вОДи

REDCOAT/LILYRIC/Vistor to the Soviet bassy in Mexico CIty

ACTION #QUILID - RULEINES

Mexico City

References: B: 10MA-33538,

3733,

11 Sept 6T

20 October 1067

Action Required: For your laformation

1. Beadquattere 1o in receipt of an INERGO Report dated do

Jenuary 1968 regarding the resolution of the Texas license Plete

IN 617 which was seen at the Soviet Mbassy on 3 Septenber 1967.

The auto was registered to the name of Mariane PUCELAY de MONTERO

or Martano de *MONTBRO of Lincola, Texas.

reference at Headquarters was on a General Marteno

MONTERO who on 8

June 1954 had an appolotsent with the Soviet

Charge d'Affairs.

This person was not further identifted and may

or my not be identical with the Subject of the LNEIGO Report:

(HNMA-3391, 4 Aug 1955)

3.

It the Station has any further information on this In

dividual, Please advise Headquarters.

IBuT

Distribution:

OTIE. & 1 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS. COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

50-6-74/6

FROW • 16258

ПАМІКА

March 1968

MOS FILE NUMBER

SECRET

50-6-74/6

OFFICE

NW/1

ORIGIHATING

Caronnice

IMPISI

COOROINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

SB/O, WH

OFTITE S MAME

wale

(08.4167

18SА

RI

CHRONO

AN PWES

DEST

ABSTRACE

WH/L

FORM

1-41

53

USE PREVIOUS FOITION.

MPG. 8-08

OFFKE STANSOL

KWHA

DATE

119 Mar 68

140%

RELEASING

OFFICERS SCRANEE

I.K.

J.

Kaufman

DISPATCH

---

## Page 18

niou

SIFIRO MESSAGE

SECRET

Trance

O FD COPY

1a0ono 0oooCi

SECRET CAZJASON MAR 68 CITE MEXICO CITY

2X6

DIRECTOR

REDCOAT

1 WILYRIC REPORTED THAT ON 28 FES IS6S AN

UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN LOOKING WOMAN INTERED THE SOVIET

EMBASSY AT 1A06 HOURS AND LEFT AT 1435. SHE WAS DRIVING

A 1566 GREY OLOSMOBILE WITH TEXAS LICENSE FLATES JHX-499.

2.

INFORMING LOCAL LNERGO AND ASKING THEN TO

RESOLVE OWNERSHIP OF CAR.

1. 1.1t1

SECRET

SECRET

5000660376

ABSTRACT

5 Man 68

50-6-7416

---

## Page 19

DISPATCH

Chiet of Station, Mexico CIty

RASS RATION

SCRET

• FROCES MATE ASTON

ACTOR RING

NO MATING CEMENO

OT OUND ON

Chiel, Westero Heat-phereDDivision

O visitors to Soviet Babasay

FIRED • BEBLRENICES

References:

lexico City 1413, 13 May 1967

mon-I$515

MICRONUM

LNERGO has advined that the vehicle bearing 1060

Tere license JBY 884 bao gerial number SJ01T521168.

The cor son carries 1967 Texas license a 42a la registered

to Baston Loute Soleras, 544 Maimonides, Mexico, Dor

TH.3.

Theresa B. BACHARDY

Distribution:

2 Ca8, Mexieo CIty

50-6-7/6

CROSS LIFERENCE FO

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

HMAW- 15948

RI

Chrono

***H/1

O#KE STABOL

DATE

7 Novenber 1967

NOS FILE NUMBER

-6-7414

ORIGINATING

1991

CCORDINATING

on.

DAlE

OFFICER'S MANI

75 c

ANS7.:-

10866

- 1-43

53

USE PREVIONA EDITION

MFG. 140

OFFICE SYMBOL

f/WIL1

DAlE

17k2

180.

RELEASING

OFFICERS SACHNUR

W. J. / Kaufman

DISPATCH

---

## Page 20

RAVECT

DISPATCH

PROCESSING ACTION

SECRET

Chief, Wu Division:

X

Chief, SB DIvIs10n

Onsor or sention, Moxico crise

REDCOAT

QUIRED: REFERENCES?

Unident lied visitor to the Soviet Dabanay, Mexico

DO TROCHING REQUIRED

OLY QUALIFICO OCA

AM JUDGE CLEANI

ACTION REQUIRED: - None; rYt

REFERENCE

MEXICO CITY 2734, 11 September 1967

As reported in Reference, LILYRIC reported the vistt

of an unidentified man to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City

on 6 September 1967.

Forwarded herewith

to local LNERGO on the Subject.

1s a copy of the memorandum sent

Tari Cant

for Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:

Memorandum

Distribution:

2 - C/SB,

wyatt.

w/att.

NUDEn, alacia Kriat

Sue timms.

• 506

for neg repy-

CONST REFERENCE 70

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

НУНЛ-33337

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

phys.

BOT 1

Exclodes 1ro9. atass.

14r1640. 894

50-6-1411

DATE

20 October 1967

HES FILE NUMBER

50-8-10/11

---

## Page 21

RET

4 October 1007

INERGO

FROM A

SUBJECT

Daldeatilied Viaitor to Soviet ambassy

1.

one, rollable source reported the visit of

in unidentified American nan to the Boviet Sabaasy In Mexico

City on 6 September 1067. At 0943 hours the morning of

6 Boptember thie Individual, driving a late model Pontiac

OTO Convertible (dark green, crean top) with Texas licenge

plates XX 880, parked in front of the Soviet bassy.

Bergey Aleksandrovich PROVOROV, Third Secretary of the

Soviet Inbasay got out of the car and talked with subject,

who rensined in hia car, for about five minutes.

PROVOROV

as then soen giving Bubjoct his calling card, after which

Bubject drove away.

It vould be appreciated if your office would ronolve

sho ownership of those platos and infor the offico or the

renulto.

013,158

THIS INPORMATICH IS FRON A CONTIDENTIAL SOURCE.

IT HUST HOT

BE DISESHINATED IN WHOLE OR IN FART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE HITH

OUT PRICR'APPROVAL, OF THE GRIGINATING OTICE IN MBAICO CITY.

Q.H. FARHILANT: "8P

Distribution:

Orig • Addressee

SD-04/A

1

50-8-10/11

HeedyJaziers Pouch

Demo

Chrono

1 = P-2183

ATT

1:11

CS COPY

RET

fidel 1

6-7 5/

---

## Page 22

SECRET

Attachment (4)

4 Ocsober 1967

BHORANDUM FOR?

FROM

SUJECT

LNERGO

3Unldentilled Vialtor to Soviet habanay

A sensitive, rellable source reported that on 5 and

6 September 1967 an unidentified American looking man vialted

the Soviet Embasay in Mexico C1tJ.. Ca 5 Septeaber 1967 thie

Individual visited the Soviet Embassy fron 1240-1245 hours.

On 8 Septenber 1967 Subject uns seen entoring the Soviet

Babassy at 1143 hours and he exited at 1152 hours.

This Individual vas seen driving away in a 1967

being driven by an unidentified blonde roman.

Mustang with Toxas license plates AXN 617°1o would be

The car 13g

approciated 1f your office would resolve the ownership of

those plates and infore this office of the resulto.

Attached for your retention are photographs of the.

individual in question along "ith a photo of the car.

Attachnent:

Photographs

#13,156

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE.

IT MUST NOT

BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE VITE

OUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

G.H. FARMILANT: WEP

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee

50-8-10/11, "ratt.

#/att.

50-2-4/A, #/o/att.

Wash Pouch, ™/att.

Memo Chrono: 7/0/att.

-RET

5:

ПіТН

---

## Page 23

ATTACHMENT (B)

FOR: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

HEREWITH ATTACHMENT TO:

HAMA-33338, 20 October 67

SECRET

ATT#S TO HMMA 3323, 65 COPY

MAN 617

---

## Page 24

DISPATCH

MAN A.

SECRET

MICROFENLO

PROCESSIC ACTION

(For

(told indexing)

[MARNTO FOR INDEXINO

LBF&

Chol, Mu Division

Chief, SB Division

Acting Chiol of Statios, Moxico eris

REDCOAT - Manuel *ALCALA Anaya 15-31

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES.

NO INDEXINE REQUIRED

ONLY. QUALIFIED DESE

CAR JOCE INDEXDIO

MICROFILM:

REFERENCE: (A) MEXICO CITY 1998, 5 July 1967

(B) BNMA-32922, 29 August 1967

1a:

On 3 July 1967 in unidentifled individual, belleved

to be

an Anerican and driving a Plymouth Valiant with Texas

license, plates NJK 945 visited the Soviet Embassy in MeriCO

City. On 24 Aúgust 1967 local LNERGO sent us a memorandum,

forwarded in Reference (B), in waich they identifled the owner

of the car as-one Hanuel ALCOLA: He reported at that time

that there were no Station traces on ALCO.

On: 1] September 1967 we received a memorandum con

cerning the same Subject.

Station files vere rechecked and

Maya, Aced or found to identical 9201 a

has been Mexican Permanent Representative to UNISCO since February

3.

Forwarded as Attachment A is a copy of the memorandum

forwarded to the Station by LNERGO on 11 September 1967•

Also

forwarded as Attachment B 1e a copy of a State Department

Airgram giving biographic data on Subject.

No further cor

respondence WIth INERGO 18 anticipated on this case.

Lair

for/Bernard A. EDGEBROOK

Attachment:

Copy of LNERGO memorandum

B - State Dept. Airgram A-696, 12 Feb 67

Distribution:

12 - с/wH,

w/atts A & B

2 - C/SB, /att A only

CROSS REFERESCE TO

i: i

ES COPY

DISPATCH. SYMBOL AND MUMBER

НИМА- 33178

CLASSIFICATION

SE CBBT

50: 74/6

CATE

2 October

1967

MOS FILE NUMBER

50-8-10/11

---

## Page 25

263 39 3 631

July 3.

LOTICO OPTICLAL USE

11839

730

niloal

Gi::

above.

a maco Licenes ligar

tant in the boat of

cd

TO C0021

C00 DEG

danie

in 22s

120

tim.

Loch

?.

---

## Page 26

ATIEHNANT B

Tobruary 12, 1965

17. 92200

Aadfer s

F:4!

9.06

trei: i

recst: a:

't""

H.Rotn

ttrci

itat

f...;

"ni:.

7:°o

wciadh ee dledd"eh

ind deerdeer erttttt

:":

wr ia

P : -EP.S.rX .

---

## Page 27

itd rpratdtdk

472d

110211

..:?:.

Tr afy

1:3

1:??4

"" t:""

teolee peeetee der

t.? "

AAWE EATlWh6Lid!

i:

fiiis.

→..-:1

b/ 20lo6 1.000000 20.011 E1

trtaon, End

w eteteoitteos dde

toat dy

: ty

o teot todt

Wod DattEtY OaH

wa?rd wtar 1.1011

o etrolot.t

PaRn"ir"

mwwewet teoh Cite Wüee diadli

ittcilinde

issádinione 'e tini

.fMn.a.

•ttttte1ide

---

## Page 28

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

•(LASSA/ICATION

SECRET

PROCESUNG ACILON•.

MARATO FOR DON NIEC

DAQY QUAIELD DISA

CAN NOCI SOLDING

Chief, in Divieton

¿ LOYRIC/Kent JOy ARONSON

HE NOR MIGUELD - IRRING!

RECROOTLA

Aetson. Requireds TAl

Reference

¿ ACCO CITY 1845, 21 June 1967

MICROFILMED

Ur 12 1301

DOC. MICHO. BER

There were no pooltive Identifiable Bendquarter traces

on Kent Jay ARONSOll, who hao been poettively identifled an the

oner or tse 1067 Talkeragon bus bearag Calliorate tage ruB-glis.

No Lavo been nartood that all pertinent LuERGO information on

this mtter has been mide avallable to the Station.

OFSTINE

Distribution:

Or1g. & 1 - COS, Mexico CIty

CROSS REPULANCE 10:

RT

:Chrono

Tati

TOYANCA SYNOCE AND MUMBER

HeM - 15783

(LASFIAON

SECRET

OFFICE

WH/1

OHHE STABOL

DATE

SB/0/WH

2s

50-6-74/6

DATE

Ti own

20 Soptember 1967

MOS FIE

SUMALR

50-6-74/6

ORIGINATING

kt

(CORDINATING

Cermis

4167

/wH/1

$01

1-a1

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

HAFG. 164

RELEASING

SITKER'S SIGMATURE

w. J. Kauran Eter

DISPATCH

---

