rod 100060263] “ aati

poe cee: SECRET

io)
A.W. BRA SKO

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

jreouester

if raNCH ROOM EXTENSION DATE fai CONTROL NO.
[ae BC BATE ing CREERTIE “RETRO TONS |
covesten io

IRio/aNaLYSis| ct-7

10/201 owes

Sus vecT TO,

BE CHECKED

SURNAME

KLEINLERNER ,

GIVEN NAMES

Alex

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA, ALIASES

NTIFYING DATA (Occupation, wox, GP wonberohip,

fFiliations, ete.)

ns

sex

‘Date OF BIRTH

we 1923

Tap

RESIDENCE

ezild

RESULTS OF RI

D7 INDEX_CHECK

No PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

COMMENTS

[CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

01. CONSOLIDATION

©) vse gummed 1sbel; type or print all
entries.

@ pon receipt of index card reproductions
draw a green diagonal line actose the
items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index
cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with
green D and note reason for destruction)
Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

1. Return this form with the card repro-
ductions, also return pertinent documents,
aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on
the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the
consolidation (i.e., copy or cross reference
to be placed in the 201 file), green D the
corresponding card and check (a) or (b)
below:

or less informative than retained in-
formation; information of no CS value.

(>) corrections and additions, inclu-

Consolidate into
201-

@)O

ding infinity symbol co when card in-
cludes all facts contained in the

(b) Open 201 file on subject.

document,

RESTRICTION (Tf any)

‘ Yes

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG
are in RID/ARD, and those that meet
indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are
carded in the CS Main Index. If you
believe there could be additional in-|
foruation of value in these records,
you wust request an Archives Index

search.

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

FILE
br hed?

Note 2. Information concerning foreign
public personalities (except mili-
tary) may be available in BR/OCR

xT99T.

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

