# 104-10112-10290

## Page 1

104-10112-10290

Cadad: 68/01

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduca

Acting Laputy Director of Security (Ecrestigations and Duppore)

C-25507

#722558

I. Reference is-zade to a nenorados fron tha #9 Dirision: 2zed

=I7 10ri1.1953 herein a covert security approval das regrested io

subarat Sabject's usa tal

linder project IranGS. Subject,

jas previously granted a corert security approval on 3 Jaly 1757:

fortseir Cuba under project PRODARaI

D2983

Sr22 On 3 June 2958 15.

WE Division, pas notified ir

Tain bedding dad tonice caneund in Subjects pessosed

3-Tonr attention is directed to the reoranda fIon tis C{ice

dated 3: July 1957 wherein Subject's clearance das nade contingent reor

rosults 0f a pol 5-a0h intervies ard crerseas traces.

The resu? t

of, the overseas traces and polarme intervien as originally regestad

have been nade available to this office.

However, a lE Dirisios

representative has rotified this office that additional orerseas traces

"hara bees reguested ch Subject's wife and her family as Nell as a stataren

piron thel

_Station corceming Subject's recent activities..

L Attacked for your Intornation ae copies of the report cr

polyarash intervier on Subject and Subject's spouse.

3J,a5

305:25

o:550

= Chiai

Field traces conducied in Septerber 1957 disclosed information

the Military Attache,

San Jose, Costalica dated lorencer 10lk.

Sibjects wife and her sister, Consolo, vere discribed as

and inbelligent, girls who are very capable of leading theascars to

actise whatsoerer."

The mort rsferred to 6-21503 18 459x20171--

and morphine aldict."

---

## Page 2

14-00000

_ RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

5. You will be furnished any pertinent Infornation resulting

Irom pending field traces.

6. The above Information 1s furnished in strict confidence to

CI/OA with the request it be handled in accordance with the previous

understanding regarding investigative material. This data should not

he disseminated to anyone outside CI/OA other than to senior CIA

Headquarters officials on a strict "need-to-know" basis.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

DaviduE. Fanlon

• BOLLING : ell

2L June 1959

---

