# 104-10186-10428

## Page 1

104-10186-10428

2'96 in 2

Aal wont to carer to 10at

a coveron coin uro caracer to tali to ni it

anis of las corio shop die not sior upe 018 to 133:19 -sico 180.1.1L Er 23

ạch 14406

hale tharo nonet.? parsona fm; lacaratia, orotesser Margi and

coch cano, ono in the lian osassa, one in a private houseo...Une do raa

In derico to consúl Alimdo finAlli, ontes of the centor (lo cider), to 26

feril, when ho wis roplared by camel VelA corozo lovercial ittacho iicardo

TA LA OF CONCEPCIU" and do a1i0 are Is.

For coro use mostly accomodation adureaues and s/i but not too succossful

bocause i developors don' i vorks developedletters"can't pu reado Use radtos

2-uay padlo sonu used for norsal trannissions back and forth, particlarly to

Veneze: j0.a radios only lor energency, such as autici on Cuba. cornalis use elve

II an agent 1s to be sont to intin indica, ringiro, Valdes, and lidol wide discuss

it; with sidel's consent, orders would be lanued and p asports lasuod arant to go

out - t':is 1s sore or less permanent assinment under diplo covere for TDi trips

like A-la ho sets a passert in a false name.

Ios trips to socialist countrier, travel laid on with datan orbassy tiero. an

Cal there 18 a CuR IS officer in tre Cubon enassy wio docinue wether visa

will to granted. Falsitiod luon passports (in faise nuno) plus logit pasaports

of bailr icrican contrios, cedulas issued to trainces who came to Cuban for

ali trnre lost trainues cone to luha ostensibly ior du trny and io back to

escort the rovolition at ho:s. i ile bein; trainid in lund, stuients are cased

by DiI desk officors and those cooil for is use saparated and trained for intell

missions witrout knowledjo of othur students or Cr of tielr ow contry:

¡erican passport secured thra C Salbador contact, sant to lula to he used for

socora who aid not havé does or wanted ancihur nationality.

Firencial report cí incaragua Fl''a

sean in exico:

2 Quats, one was advanced i120 to pit to juat

I sonduran

2 ranaran

3owilvidor, 2 more in salvador

3-urico, one do contact lauricio de la SIlVA, 2 icaraians.

1 :lear agent in diba

• Un arones in prison in vasto movingo

I saitian in Gina

Iss stalf, Julio Liio: Vacares: Serio

ve sosao lonun, §to sul now in dose, cicad cal tradis de vas de rated from

---

## Page 2

fataly nas differene citicenships ne travolod vito no radaro: usosa was

trained as agent, raci, colo, ciper, a/v, accommodation address

Julio DiAsi Vasques handlin, insultiond CAsse 5'5" rusty, sonotines chided

tie amalian because light mulitto, also t rained in d/u codas, elpiers, mato,

also jarachuting, trained for bentral Ayer assignmnt but still in vuba.

Roque CAirCH uarcis, salvadoran, father was us citz and 3 brothary are, one fought

at Ginava; sister argarita roxican citz nou studyine in Cuban Ael as case officer

save DA TOY ¿dQ) to tuy radio received, but unToN too a trip ana lived lich instead.

Me has froguenelos for radio transilssion, suprosedly segnd londay eac: nonth.

Froguencies iere fils, fila was rolled and put into false val of his shoe.

Accoriodation address Of DiLTuil is Rafaol ACEVDO Flanco, Welgadillo 22, Volonia

Santo. Toras, Zone 17, ¡exico, Ul. eturn addresses invented so as not traceable.

Agents in Cuban for intel or ela training on departure receive 2 jassports, 0n3,

Cuban to travel to frague, one for tetuen

from rraue to om cointry. Agent loft

Cuba once using oun passpirts because not time for DeI to set then passcorts with

proper cachets. when passport for travel Issued, Dil staips in back cachet such

as iron Urly dirport with cato to correspond to purioù won arent was in Giba.:

DGI chooses countries fur cachet use on basis whethor man of agent nationality

would have to have a visa for the co.: try, dost latins can go to france without

a visa, so France is asefal ducaure no duplication or visa corging needed, only

cachet for Orly arrival. this slows ancarently person was traveling in durope while

actuall: bein trains in diba.

Chan passports with salsa nanes have 5 digits, starped, hence recornizable. Is uses

stano with just 5 viries. dare in passport. false, for that trip onlyo

Agent in trng assignos peranent pseudonym, inich he would use again on a return

to Cuba. when D.I started, it acnetines assimed a trng pserau, another pseudo

for second trir to osha, but it caused corplications because of sepirate filas,

so trig pseudo was de ceranent.

Celicio DiMiI:TO jonsales rearo, licar, lü agent, now in vicar, has accero ad-

dress isabal ROSRIC:=, Piltagoras ulb, Altos, Colonia jarvarta, ¡exico, DE;

letter fro. accome sidress toiled to Suhan is.

ICa: requests for vaccination indicate IS interest; non Is types No: ide to oiice

Cable simed Pablo inisontes it fron Dil Has.

¿ Endorio, 10 chief in acco 1l redo itali to la sir sle

ŸM used -arcos it will preonly chance

its nce i ledioctir .

---

## Page 3

TA:S 2 3

bottor concarnia: delo rercintlo i Del catimntes, tibar aid encild la ca 125,000.

FI cido trito o le: "see what their glans aro. here will that tay tho ara?

iht price? itat comection with.iaxieo."

faso passneris: Foto eplaced aid false itinorary stanpede

shortare of insin nassports for trainica llaving subi. DiI nas to watt will

Mexieö stitir eu serd soro. phon oltainod, passport is prepared ion travel

Habana-trague, cily way availarle.

they, to another country

Cables: 1n ani cut 1a Codos TURMAL siona cables bulo 1o, also uses s Federioo.

•A-1 had 150 sgir pesos docud at Dol rima exico for silvaderan leaving buba. ho gote

dollars and ogir pesos. lianuel VSGA had Niear dest before joing to darico.

FLi. Nicar finince doe explains misuse of monoy riven CUHRiRO to buy arns. Funda

care fron Dil, sent fres Cuba in suitease sert by diplo pouch.

---

