104-10186-10156

Tite material eum wcne imiormotion efertirg ins Matonsl, Deiease of une Chied Grater evibia Le lamaing of Whe Biperongs tare Tue

LUBE Bove TRS cad TA te Wammeamng of ferwention of ehieh Ie any manner ws 0a Uasuthewend peremm te pveubited by nw

SE CR BT oe i \

: NO FOREIGN DISSEW i

|

countay Cuba mrom NO. CSCI-316/01268-65 H

suuect Julian NOVAS Fernander - pare ota =—«19 March 1965 |
NO. PAGES. 1

werenences.  CSCI-316./00699-64 :
ae 27 August 1964 .
wo.” 1964 : : :
pact 4 “ashington, D.C. :
care aca. March 1965 - FL REPORT NO.
‘THiS 18 UNEVALUATED INPOGMATION. SOUSCE GLADINOS AGE DEMNITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT fi TENTATIVE. .

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban, Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments ‘ 4JAN TO CLA
areal net only

The following report ts one of a series containing personafpeckground De
information provided by the source and includes supplementa Do Not Rep!

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuale mentioned in the personality reports without
Cirst checking with thia Agency.

On 9 February 1965, source was again shown @ photograph of
Julian NOVAS Fernandez and he said that NOVAS is the Cuban Consul

in Jamaica. “OVAS {# alxo a member of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (Ceneral Mrectorate of Mtelligence . par).

Headquarters Comment

1. Aside from the information forwarded in the above referenced
report, this Agency has no pertinent additional information

on NOVAS,

5 ad 5

4 SECRET 4

H NO FOREIGN DISSSM. (eer) 3

3

i Cees} f
cog Trav Tae

on
REP CINCLANT _CINCSO # TENS

‘ica Fit Geortoean beftonted try “8°

PROJECT (AMMUG}1)
SCi-316/01268¢q5°

store ewnoce sprnowa | ~~

