SECRET
+ SECURITY INFORMATION

CLEARANCE REQUEST
pate 23 duly 195k

To 1 Chief, Special Security Division, I&SO Coordination has been.effected.

FROM : Chief, Staff C/SPB The Operational Clearance

dated 12 April,'S} will be cancelled when CSC

SUBJECT: NO._xx JG-81,2 is granted.

if 0696
l. Character of Case: oc CSC __2000 PROJ.

2. CIA indices check required in advance------------~--------------- Yes--No-2-

3. Project name: Not _cited

4, Proposed country of assignment: ____As_stated in attached Memo, .__

5. Contemplated type of contract or
employment agreement (see C.F.R. 14.1) See attached.

6. Scope and nature of use or activity: See attached.

?. Subject's cover:

8. Present whereabouts and occupation of Subject:

9. Suggested guide of I&S investigation: U.S. Govt. :, Commercial
Other:

10. Special coverage desired in investigation:

ll. Limitation, if any, on investigation:

12. Subject aware of Agency interest-

13: Subject aware of pending investigation-------------------------~) ‘Yes--No---

14. Subject briefed on “cover” story to be used in investigation----Yes--No---

15. Probable investigative contacts informed of "cover" story subject will use:
Yes----No----. If not, state reason.

16. Return attached PRQ Part I--. Biog. Data----with results
of your action. Already of record.

17. Certification having been made by the Chief of the interested Division that
operational files and documents contain no pertinent information of an in-
vestigative or security nature other than that furnished to Staff C/SPB,
such information forwarded to your office----~----------99------ ‘Yes--No---

18. Remarks: STC/SPB (has) (has not) been advised if Green List initiated
Investigative Reports attached. a2

FORM NO. 39-60 B RETURN TO CIA sexne| (9) ac

Use Only x FesoH

Do Not Reproduce 774)
