# 104-10256-10068

## Page 1

104-10256-10068-

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINAT

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

_SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COP..

SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

DOWAGRADING AND

DEGLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

3

chits

6

OSSD

BY : m

AT:-

DISSEM. SY

PER.

ACTION UNIT

IFE Y

FILE, VR

ACTION NO

C/IP/AN, DDP, ADDP, C/FE/UNO 4, C/ FE/LOC 2

124 c/F1 2,

C/CL C/SAVA

D/SECUR 4, c/SOD. 3

13

SECRET 121148Z NOV

TVCITE

24725 (SEGERQUIST ACTING)

DIRECTOR (PHNOM PENH (VIENT IANE) SAIGON

18-5

17-25

13-7

RYBAT SECUR

REF: DIRECTOR 88114 KNOTAL>

12 Nov IN 467962

1. MR. MITCHEL: A • WERBELL, MILITARY ARMAMENT

CORPORATION (FORMERLY AN ELEMENT OF WERBELL'S GEORGIA

EASED FIRM OF SIONICS WHICH REPORTEDLY WENT

BANKRUPT, IS BACK IN BANGKOK ATTEMPTING TO SELL HIS WARES

MACHINE PISTOLS AND SNIPER RIFLESS. IHE REF MESSAGE CITES

THE FACT THAT HQS HAS A LENGTHY 201 ON SUBJECT (201-259910)

AND THAT HE IS CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS, A WHEELER-DEALER

AND A PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. HE HAS ON OCCASION

iLLUDED EITHER TO BEING AN LNLUTE REP OR HAVING LNLUTE BACKING.

2. SUBJECI MET WIIH SEVERAL LNCUFF OFFICERS ON 5 NOV

7 AND RELATED THAT HE WAS ATTEMTING AGAIN TO INTEREST THE

TRAI GOVERNMENT IN PURCHASING HIS PRODUCIS. SUBJECI CLAIMS

TO BE PERSONAL FRIEND CF. AIR CHIEF MARSHAL DAWEE AND THAT

HIS SAMPLE WEAPONS WERE CONSIGNED TO DAWEE IN ORDER IO BRING

THEM INTO THAILAND. V

3. SUBJECT ADVISED LNCUFF THAT GEN. KRIANGSAK#

ORDERED

31120

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON/ UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE: TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP 1

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

5

1

2

3

4

DISSEM. BY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO

. *

FILE, VR

FAGE TWO

24725 SECRET

CHE HUNDRED MACHINE PISTOLS AND IWENTY SNIPER RIFLES. HE

ALSO INDICATED THAT HE HAD MET WITH H. S.H. ADMIRAL DISKUL,

CHIEF AIDE DE CAMP TO H.M. THE KING AND CLAIMS HE WILL SELL

HIS MACHINE PISTOL TO THE ROYAL FALACE GUARDS. FURTHER

CLAIMS HE WILL HAVE AUDIENCE THIS WEEK WITH H.M. THE KING.

4. FOLLOWING HIS CURRENT THAILAND VISIT, ON 16 NOV 71

SUBJECT AND ME. JASON M. STONE (201-096998) PLAN TRAVEL

FINOM PENH. PLAN TO CONTACT MR. LADD AT PHNOM PENH. ACCORD-

ING LNCUFF SUBJECT FLANS CONTACT CAMBODIAN MIL. AUTHORITIES

FOR POSSIBLE WEAPONS SALES. SUBECT HAS ALREADY DEMONSTRATED

ITEMS FOR GEN. POXSAMAN IN BANGKOK.

.. MR. JASON M. SICNE IS HEAD OF BANGKOK BASED FIRM

I ASSCCIATED CONSULIANTS CORUANY LID. HE IS CHINESE, WHO

WORKED WITH WERBELL IN SEA DURINS WWII. SUBJECT NOW REPRE-

ENZE BELGIAN ARMS FIRMS AND IS REP FOR PILATUS PORTER

AIRORAFT.

So FOLLOWING PHNOM PENH VISIT WERBELL PLANS TRAVEL TO LAOS IN

A FILATUS PORTER, PROBABLY WITH STONE.

7. DUE RESTRICTION

ON PASSING DEROG ON U.S. CITIZEN,

BELIEVE BESI APPROACH ZO FOLLOW IS CAREFUL ADVICE TO LOCAL

it.

- on..

SECRET r

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIC

ISON LAIT NOTIFIED

LANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIE:

SECRET

GROUPI

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

DOWAGRADING ANG

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

1

2

3

4

AT.

SSEM. BY.

CTION UNIT

STION NO

PER.

=_

FILE, VR

8-5

GE THREE

24725 SECRET

(ISON THAT

SUBJECT HAS NO OFFICIAL LNLUTE RELATION

24

AND CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED IN ANY BUSINESS DEAL.

SECRET

GP- 1

"E/S APPARENTLY WRONG REF.

...-..........

..!:

2/1J

SECRET

---

