# 104-10219-10074

## Page 1

104-10219-10074

DISPATCH

Chiof, ME

Chief, BR

FROM

SEJECT

Chief of Station, Rowe

KUDESK

ACTION RIQUIRED. REFERENCLS

REFERENCES:

PROCESSING ACTION

HANDS VON MOCKING

NO MODERE IQUIALD

GARY QGALE ID DE SA

CAN REGA FEELIAS

#SCROFEM

6P

(a)

(b)

24330,

17 Auguat 1965

24418, 15 September 1965

The story provided by Subjeat during our Interview at the United

States Consulate in Trieste on 25 Oatober 1905 concerning hia experiences

while in the Soviet Union 1e eusentially the same as that provided by Dr.

George Renninger in raference (a).

Although Subject was reasorably 0o-

operative, he was not as fully communloative as we wlight have desired. In

conaldering the various possible reagons

for his partial hesitanoe lt ap-

pears rather obvious now that our continued interest in what he interpreted

to be a very simplo relationship with a Sovlet girl has causad him to sue-

poot that posalbly ve are suapicious of him.

Acoording to Subjeot,

the

entire episode was reported fully while in Mosoon and again to KUSARK last

Christmas while he was on a vialt to

the United states.

Subject stated

that he lad prepared a report in writing for Dr. Goldberg at Prineston

University who aote as a & bethren for kuBark.

It is obvious that he was

probably asked to prepare a general report on his experienous while in the

Soviet Union for KULOOK which we had not been aware of previoualy and whieh

may not have come to the attention of KUDESK. Unlues Headquarters has some

rathor specifio questiona it in considered unlikuly that we oan provide any

Information in addition to that reported in the folloring paragrapha ob-

tained during this Intervier.

2o Jubject arrived in Moscow during the early part of November 1963

on a ter month exchange fellowship arranged botreen the National Academy

of Solonces and the Soviet Acadeny of Sciences.

Subject was assigned to

the Lebeder Physios Institute in Moscow and the major portion of his life

while In Moscow revolved around his work at the Inatitute or various in-

dividuals met through the Institute. Subject ate lunch in the Institute

lunch room or cafeteria and usually at about the same

time each day, some-

time between one and one thirty. Approximatoly two weeks after he had

Distribution:

•'3 - Chief, WE

2-C/SR

DOC. MICRO. SER.

-Wid 21576

RICROFLIES

201-252338

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH STIPSCA AND NUMIDER

14230178

7 11

BALONE ES

natale dati

DArE

8 November 1965

DEQS FILE NUMBER

202-97852.

-red.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

arrived at the Inatitute, subjest and his

who was at the Insiltute

ren' sonth excreme fellowship, were

approached by Vladiair Anatolarion SOKOLOVSKTY uhile walting lo the cate

teria 11ne. SOKCLOVSKIY, who identified himself as an American, said that

he had heard that they were in the Insultice and ranted to meet then. Dur-

Ing this first conversation Subjeot clairs that SO:CLOVSKIY told chen that

he was in faot Willlam Hanilton MARTIN and vent on to explain sone of the

supertiolal details surrinding nia delecion to she sovier Union in 190J.

MARTIN told them tnat if lney did not consider him coo tainted, he would

welcome the opportunity of talking to scoa hrarioans.

He felt that there

were many racets of his experiences while in the Soviet Union which he

would like to talk about but which he could not dississ with his Soviet

friends. Either on this ocoasion or later,. MARTIN sentloned shat Vernon

MITCHELL, who had defeated with MARTIN, bas living In Leningrad.

Approximately a week later SubJect net MARTDI again in the lunch

MARTIN reportal that lollowing ils firat encounter with Subjeet and

RENNINOER he had been called into the party offloe at the Inatitute. They

apologized to him for not having warned r.im in advanes that Subject and

RENNINGiR were boing assigned to the Institute, sinee they were certain

that subjeot would have wanted to avoid ther.

They cold MARTIN that it

was perfectly permisaible for him to talk to them, but that he should de.-

Initely not reveal his true identity to them nor should he give then his

address in Mosoow sinde there was the possibility that they had been sent

to the Soviet Union to assassinate him.

Quite naturally, they also wanted

to know what MAKTIl had disoussed v1uh Subjeot and NEININGER.

As a gonora!

rule, Subject saw MARTIN in the lunch room every week or two for the entire

parlod that he was in Mosoon. On oertain coasions it appeared that MAKTI!

would avold talking to Subjeat, Based on MATIN's aotlons, Subjeot assuned

this usually depended on who was prosent in the lunch room.

SubJeot addod

at this point that their disousalons with MARTIN were always in English.

# MARTIN made 1t definitely clear to Subjoot that he was intorested

in getting out of the Soviet Union.

He desoribed life in the USSR as a

constant game with the Soviet offlelals.

MARTIN felt that he had only been

able to keep his hoad above water while there because of his knowledge of

Soviot. lan.

Hu explained to Subjoot that he had devoted a great deal of

time studying Soviet lar and had used hie knowledge to proteot himself.

The Soviets were frequently at a lose when confronted with quotations from

their own laws in total confliot with aotions which they were tryina to

impose on MARTIN. Subjeot was once asked to write a letter to MARTIN' a

parents asking them to. put pressure on the Soviets and the Prese to help

in obtalning his relesse.

Subject sald .that-e copy of this letter nuat

be avallable at KUBARK.

5. MARTIN also desoribed in great detall to Subjeot 11fe In general

within the Soviet Union and what the averase Soviet citizen must fade every

day. It nas obvious to subjeat that MARTIN had been greatly dialllusioned

following his arrival in the USSR when he found a society totally different

from what he had antioipated prior to his departure from the United States.

The Soviets had exerted conaiderable presaure on Subjeot to partloipate in

various anti-US radio prograns or to write antl-US artiales.

disoussion back and forth MARTIN agreed to write something if they would

promise to publish it without editing.

He wrote what he considered a very

. objective comparison of life In the USSR and that in the U.S. After having

this artiole he was never approached again on this tople.

6.

Regular contacts between subjeat, RENNINAER and MARTIN continued

In the lunch room with general conversations such as those noted above un-

t1l December or early January, 1504.

At this point MARTIN asked Subject

If he or RENNINGER wauld. go to the U.S. Embassy to ask them 1f there were .

any way in which they could assist him in. leaving the Soviet Union legally

or otherwise.

Subjeet rated that' RENNINGER had already contacted the U.S.

Embassy following the firat meeting with MARTIN to report on their con

versations with him and the faot that he was in Moscow.

FORN

$3a

USE PREVIOUE EDITION.

LES Lancares to date

# 206.10-39

PAGE NE

2

CONTINUED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DISPATCH

7.

Alao at about ine same tine, probably aarly January, Subject was

standirug in the lunch roun line (Subjool alwaja roierred to

1t as

the lunoh

room rather than a cafeseria) when le saw MARTIN together with an attrac-

tive young firl about tranty or twentj-one years of age.

They stopped to

ohat for a lument and MARTIN introduced Alla Aleksandrovna ROLLOVA.

Subjeet

emphasized that this was entiraly casual and that their conversation at this

neting lanted "or only a few mosenbs.. A few days or possioly a week later

MARTIN saw jubJeot in the lunch room and bentioned that "Alla" had found

him quite a handsone individual. MARTIN seationed this ooly in passing and

in no way, an far aa Subjeot was conderned, auteupted to force "Alla" on sul-

foot.

Subject was equally impressed with

"Alla" and during the following

few daya made several inquirles anong ia Soviet colleagues in the Insti-

tute.

No one bad anything partioular to say about her otner than that she

was rather alive socially and had wany friends in the Institute. At this

point Subjeot did not know where she worked at the Institute.

Sometime during the latter part of January 19f4 S-bJest had his

first date with "Alla.'

Subjeat oouid not recall exaotly how this was ar

ranged, but belleves that he met her in the lunch room and asked her to go'

on a troike ride with him.

This was followed by five or sir other dates

with her ovor the next seven or eight weeks.

Trey went to a film ones, the

Bolsty ones, the upera onde and restaurante on two or three occasions.

Afler a while Subjeot notioed that she was partioularly interested

in his Soviet friends and other contacts in the Soviet Union.

For example,

on the evening they attorded the Bolahoy, Subjeat noticed hia friend william

(B111) PARRIS, an

Anerloan exchango atudent at the Moboow State Univeralty.

subject had known him at Princeton University.

Subjeot said,

"Oh, there 1s

"What did you say abuut SOKOLOVSKIY?" In other

words, she knew perfestly woll that SoKoLOVSKIY and Willia MAHTIN vere one

and the same. She was obvioualy embarrased and tried without sucoess to

oover up her blunder.

MARTIN later told Subjeat that "Alla" had oalled him

that evening to cell him of her blunder.

She also onoe asied Subjeot if te

were really going to return to the United Intes. This couid, of course, be

intorprotod as a defection pitoh. Suojeot feele that 1t was more of a

casual personzi. remarke

10.

Aooording to Subjeot, "Alla" seened to lum to be suah too friendly,

willo at the sane time not sinoerely friendly.

In February, Subjeat's. sus-

picions had mounted to the point where he desided to ask his Soviet 0o1

league in the Institute, Ilja ROYZIN (phonetio), 1f he oould cheok with

some of his contaota to determine if "Alla" ves in faot being used against

him for sono purposa, Subjeat olained that he already lion at thie point

through conversations with his Soviet colleagues tint ROXiN could cheok

without bringing it to anyone's attention.

Shortly afterwaras, ROYLIN re-

turned to Subjoot with the advibe to stop seuing her.

He cautioned Suh-

foot that he should not mention to anyone that he had talkat to him and

certainly not to say anything. Subject claims that he stopped dating her

after this point, but did oocasionally see her in the lunch room. After

Subjeot stopped seeing her she called him at his hotel every two of three

days.

At no point did MARTIN really push Subjest on continuing the relation-

ship.

11.

Subjeot desoribed their relationship as perfectly natural for two

young people Interested in each other.

They selden discussed anything of

importanoe and never disoussed his work at the Institute.

Subjeot went.

home with ber to her apartment on two separate occasions.

Once she asked

him to spend the night with her, but he indicated that he should get back

to his hotel. Subjeot desoribed her as possibly a bit more forward sexually

than others that he had met, but that their relatlonship was perfeotly

normal and certainly nothing that could be used agatnat him since he was

a single man.

The apartment was actually her nother's, a che room apert-

mant with an alcove for the bed and a small kitchen.

Subleat never met her

nother and is not sure if her father lived in the apartment with the mother.

1:479

FORM

{40)

53a

USE PREVIOUE EDITION

PAGE NO.

CONTINUED

3

i a rodre news grie

---

## Page 4

FORN

5.B0

(4803

53c

Jubject dons recall that her mother malays workarade, aithough he dis

not know 18 te carat one had died or if sly had men divorces.

Subject

heard fron someone that her fathor worked for the 103.

Subjest could pro

vide absolutaly no further Infornation on this polat..

"AlLa"

rever scened

to be pusting the relationship even

though she did seem ourlous about some

of Subject's friends.

Once she mentioned to Subjeat that they should not.

be seen together in the lunch mon since this night be a tink for her.

12.

Subjeot last saw "Alla" alone just before ho ieft the Soviet Union.

He was down town one day and net her by chande.

Trey stopped for coffee

and chatted for awhile. The only thing of any aignificancs nosed was tat

she had been disassed from the Lebedev Institute and was

then workirg for

Ministry of Foreijn Affairs.

During the past surer, subject and RENDLiGER

again visited Moscor for a neer (15-20 Juis 1945).

They drove fron Trieste

to Prague and then on into Moscow via train.

Arrangements were nade through

Inturist.

They visired the lebedev Institute for a day, as woll as, friends

In Mossoms. Nothing coourred on this viast of any partloular note.

Subjeet

promined to prepare a written report on this trip during the next two or

three seke and w111 pase 1t to the underaigned via the Consulate in Trieste,

Posalbly after reviewing this report we ray have further questions.

Since

his return, Subjest has reoeived a brief lotter fron "Alla" in elementary

German stating simply that she had heard that he has been in Moscor and

that she was sorry that they had not seen each other. The return address

Indioated that she had moved:

V

Moskra W-36

Profso JunnaJa Ul. 15

Kwartire 10

13.

Subject's responses

to the questiona contained In the "Personality

Data Debrioting Oulde"

produeed the following additional Informtion:

A. Basto Biographio Data

USE PRIVIOUS EDITION.

(1) Name:

Alla Aleksandrovna KOZLOVA.

(2)

Nioknames:

(3)

None other tran "AlTa".

DPOB:

Subject was not certain but believes that

she was born in Mosoon and had always Iived tbare.

He-did not knor her exaot rate of birth. lie estimated

that it rust have heen about 1981.

(4)

(5)

(6)

Citizenship:

Soviat

Iden Documents:

SubJeet. never sar any of her docunonts.

Pather:

As noted above Alla's nother had had two.

husbands. He assumea that one was Alla's father.

Her

father was also supposedly working for the khs, Booord-

1ng to MARTIN.

(7)

Mother: Subject never met her. Subject only knuw that

Alla Lived with her mother in the apartment in which be

(8)

had visited.

Siblings: Subjeot does not think that she had any sib-

...11ngs.

(9)

Spouse:

Never married.

• (10)

Education:

Subjeot knew that she had had some special-

Ized training after completing high school, but does not

belleve that she ever attended the University.

(12)

Religion:

Atheist.

She nems saall gold cross given

to har by her grendmother, buz subjeet explained that

(12)

this had no religious meaning.

Langunges:

Rusalan (native). Sbe told Subject once

that she planned to learn german. Based on the brief

note in German recently received from her, the appar

•ently has rade some progress. She also spoke a very

11ttle: English.

Subjaat does not know 1f she had ever

studied Englich

or where she might have leered 1t.

(13)

Baployment: Subject did not know if she had ever

worked anywhere prior to Joining the Lebedev Institute.

Subjeet did not know her. exaot position there, though

she was in the First Section or to Party Offlee,

When he met her just prior to his departure, she

told

him that she had transterred to the Ministry of Foreign

Affalrs.

"LASBiFICATION

SEBAACAT

0575-39062

PAGE MO.

4

"CONTINUIT

---

## Page 5

53cг

: JOIRA 42301

(14)

Arrests;

lions known. (SYZIN cace mentioned trat

ahe had one boen caught taiing nosey fron the

Institute. Subjeot had been told that situations

suah as this ver frequently used to en118t the

cooperation of employees for reporting on follo

employees, etce

Bo

Phyaloal Descriptio:

(1)

Apparent age:

20-21-

(2)

weight:

Cae

100 lba

(3)

Height: C8. 594°

(4)

Ethnia bagkground: Obviously slavia- high abeek

bones and black hair.

(5)

(6)

Build:

slight

Complexion:

Falf

(7)

Hatr: Blaok, Subjoot sided that she does dye

her hair and the na:ural coler could be anythinge:

(8)

Kyas: light colored, either blue or green

(9)

Nose: anal

(10)

Face: Round

(11) Lips: Medius

(12)

Teeth: Even and in good condition.

(13)

Clothea:

for a Rusalan girl certainly above average.

Subjeat felt that she dressed abore ber ingom. He

had no evidenes, however.

(14)

Health: Subjeet a very athletie person and almays in

exoellent health. A very bright and lively person.

(15) Speolal features: None

Co Currioulus Vitao

Subjeet could provide nothing suppleventing that

already given above.

D. Fersonal and Private Data

E.

(1)

Address:

Мовоот.

Subjeat said that he has provided

the address previously

Ho also has 1t listed in his

diary which he loft with bid nothor when he wea home

last Christeas. See above for. ourrent address.

(2)

Telepbone: She had a telaphone in the apartment.

Subjeot. does not recall the numbere

(3)

Apartment: See above,

Subjeot considered the apart

ment nice by Sovlet standardo.

SubJeet was not sure

If the father lived there.

(4)

(5)

(6)

Servant:

None.

Meals:

She usually. ate lunch at the Lebeder Inatitute.

Dentist: Subjeot reoalls that she one went to the

dentist while he me in Moscow, He could not reeall

any detalle.

(7)

Clube: Subject was a member of the Konsonol and en-

Joyed vietting the Molodozhnya Club on Corkly Ule

This vas a club primarily for members of the Konsonol

where they had avallable anny of the popular eurrent

Western records.

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

• (13)

(14)

(15)

(16)

(17)

Sports: Skiing, swimming and skating.

Theater: Enjojad the theater.

Vacation: Every sunmer. Arranged through the Institute.

Hobbies: Ameriean Jatz.

Personal Iriers:

Subjeot had no speaffio intoration.

Smokes: Subject does not believe that she smokes.

Alcobol: Nor

Canual Sex:

See comment above.

Transportation:

usually toos tarte, metro or the bus.

No oar.

Finanelal: Aceording to Subjeot, the seemed to spend

money faster thar abe earned it.

Politioal Data

(1)

Member of the fonsonol.. Subjeet did not know 1f she

EZ VICATION

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

X CONTINUED

PAGE NO,

5

8 D01 90-17

---

## Page 6

1d-0d0d

DISPRICH

hall aar apeolal cosition, although shr did pontin

once that she had Introduced & aeone at a seeting

Indicating that possibly the haljed some sort of pool.

€1050

F. Job Data - Fothing other than already noted above.

O. Miscellaneous.

(1) Travel: the onoe visited Poland with a student group.

14, In retuming to the toplo of MARTIN and Subjoot's contast with him,

Subjeat reported that MiRrIN usually did nost of the talking. He disoused

11fe 1a the Soviet Union and frequently his attempts to got a divoroe, (when

Subject nos In foroon in July he learnes Cat MAkTIN had tinally roceived his

divorsel.

MARTIN onde told Subjeot that he ras permitted to reoeive Tire and

life magazines so long an be agreed not to shou tian to anyone.

RENINGER onde referred to ine allegations that MARTIN and MITCHEll were homo

sexuale. MATIN stated emiationlly toat thin vas not true. He said that

ho bad none sor problems, bis that he ma certainly not a honosexual.

regard to his defeation, MArTIN sald that he had contaoted somsone prior to

his defeation. subjeot unserstood that no money uns involved and that MARTIN

lad not been an inplace agout.

15. With regard to Heacquartert denire for a personal assessment of

Subjeet,

the cirounatanees surrounding this meeting with subject did not

provide an opportunity for any sort of valid assesament.

l'e was bonstant-

ly on the edge of his chair fir the reasons previously noted above.

As a

bright and unusually gifted joung theor cloal phyalelat he spends much of

his time wrapped up in & world of hid ord.

At the same time be does enjoy

ekin diving, skiing and other eports. In some maya he seeme to

naive.

Posalbly this 18 the vrong teruinology. A bettar vay of desorib

Ing hin would be to say that he 1a ao trolved in hlo om flold of apoolal

Izatlontrat ho simply has never taken thra to properly consider many of che

other problons re fase in 1110. In going ovor the liat of questions above

he mentioned very proudly that he mas an athelot. At this point all of

these remarka are probably seaningless and should not be glven any. weight

In assessing Subjeat for possible future operational use.

The undersigard

expects that he will agaln be in Trleste In the not too distant future and

will make a point of having lusch or dinner with blm.

rolared olrounstanoes we can obtain a more objective ploture of him as an

Indiridual®

16. Il Headquarters has any specifie follos-up questions ve will

try to cover then when we see Subjeot again.

We are at the point now,

however, where any further questions should be rather specifio to be

maningful. Though much of the above in simply a revier of information

previously reported, we hope that a few of the new detalls will be of

some value to ODDIVY and Headquarters.

QM 12.20

CARLTON TO SHIVELI

•..

8727-65

2i/-282338

17AM

780

6489::

$3a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

---

