# 104-10178-10096

## Page 1

104-10178-10096

RISSAGE PORA

SECAST

9331

cait.

SAILE NEURATA AISSERNAIION

30 Juza 1907 R-L835

15 AR

RS

X7 AUS IN CS RUBE

RID COPY

QECR

auto rus

• VE

(olitat

(ratarano

nearbed,

SECRET

30: 154952

CITE DIRECTOR

то

SIORITE TENE

КІРОК ТУРІС

MICLIVS-15

REE DIRECTOR 15805

N5915

I. REQUEST STATION TRACSS ALBERT LARRAIN MAESTRE.

2. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ADVISES HE A FUGITIVE UNDER NARCOTICS

ÉDICTIENT AND ALLEGEDLY ADJITTED TO ANCLEVE-15 HIS INVOLVEMENT IN

BONSINGS YITH ROSENTHAL. REQUEST STACION COMMENT ANCLEVE-15 EVER

RICEIVE SUCH ADMISSION FROM LARRAIN MAESTRE.

3.

NO EQS TRACES.

paus as

fastend

7

END OF MESSAGE

v. B

"BROS"

C/IED

AC/WE/COG

AWTHESTICATINO

BILLABILO OFFICER

COOSSINAESS ONITES

SECAST

RIPRODUCTION DY OTHER THEY THE LSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITES.

---

## Page 2

1941s Dres Ono

CLASSIFY TO DILE NO.

I-DEE TO PILE nO.

PILE AID DO MAY. TO AMAMEN. (O

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

. SECRET

IT NOTIFIED

РОТАД СеРІ#!

I RID COPY

LL'A C

OVANCE COPT

Doom D.

2RS

30 Jen 67 # D2284

02284

SE CRE I 302022Z CITE JPWAVE 7953

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

КАРОК TYPIC AMCLEVE/15

REFERENCE: A.. DIRECTOR 15805

B. DIRECTOR 15915

1• ANSWERS KEYED TO QUESTIONS IN REF A AS FOLLOWS.8

A. AMCLEVE/15 DID NOI VOLUNTEER SELF TO LOCAL

FBI. HE DID REPORT TO JAWAVE, WHICH IN TURN INFORMED FBI.

FBI THEN APPROACHEC AMCLEVE/1S ON THEIR OWN DURING LATE .

JULY 6S AND QUESTIONED HIM ABOUT JULY 65 DEAL.

B&C. JIVAVE INFORMED FBI ON 24 JULY 65

(SEE A

ABOVE)

DO SINCE AMCLEVE/IS FAILED TO REPORT OCT 66

TRANSACIION TO JINAVE UNTIL 9 JUNE 67, FBI NOT NOTIFIED

UNTIL 15 JUNE 67• CAMCLEVE/ 15"S EXPLANATION FOR NOT

REPORTING OCT 68 TRANSACTION WAS THAT HE "JUST FORGOT",

E. SEE PARA 2 BELOW.

F. SOURCES WERE LOCATED IN THE MIAMI AREA OMY.

Ge AMCLEVE/1S CLAIMS HE DID NOI RECEIVE ANY MONEY

FOR OCT 66 TRANSACTIONE ONLY MONEY AMCLEVE/IS EVER REPORTED

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

PAGE 2 JINAVE I993 SECRET

SECRET.

RECEIVING WAS $5DO FROM ROSENTHAL DURING JULY 65.

ROSENT HAL HAD INSISTED AMCLEVE/IS TAKE $500; TO AVOID ANY

ROSENTHAL SUSPICION OF ANCLEVE/15, LATTER WAS INSTRUCTED

BY UPWAVE TO TAXE THE MONEY. AMCLEVE/IS WAS ALLOWED BY

STATION TO KEEP THE $580.

2. AMCLEVE/IS UNABLE TO RECALL ALL DETAILS OF JULY

65 DEAL:: AMCLEVE/ 15 CLAIMS HE ONLY PASSED IO DIEGO

(BORGES) TORRES 8201-284161) 6 GRENADES WHICH AMCLEVE/15

OSTAINED FROM HERMINIO DIAZI SANDALIO (201-203040).

BORGES IN TURN PASSED THEM TO ROSENTHAL. (BORGES AND

NORMAN ROTHMAN WERE ACTING AS AGENTS FOR ROSENT HALD•

FRANCISCO (RODRIGUEZ) TAMAYO (201-293114) MADE SILENCERS•

RODRIGUEZ AND AMCLEVE/15 JOINTLY DELIVERED THEM TO BORGES.

UNWAVE RECORDS DO NOT SHOW WHERE DIAZ OBTAINED THE GRENADES.

3. AS REPORIED IN REF AMCLEVE/1S IS CURRENTLY WORKING

WITH THE FBI AND FOLLOWING THEIR INSTRUCTIONS RE ROSENT HAL

4.

INFO TO

IT HAS ONE DOMINGO SECHEMENDIAT

23001-2920465129-9995197444446, 258 9945

PARA 4

"AMCLEVE/15 REPORTED LARRAIN INFO TO FBI AND TO UMWAVE

ON 27 JUNE 67 STATINÙ, HOWEVER THAT IT WAS ONE DOMINGO

(CHERENA) ESCALATTE (361-201943) WO diso SAIO THAT

STATIC HOMEVEN THAI

---

## Page 4

har thEatriCal+s +4501503013830 in

%.-.

0-&3 3 UNWAVE T993 SECRET

SECRET

OF BOMBINGS AND ROMMAN WAS INE BOSS.

•3. WOULD APPEAR HOS JUSTICE QUERIES BASED ON FBI

REPORTING FROM MIAMI. WOULD IT BE OF ANY HELP IF WE GOT

TOGETHER WITH BUREAU HERE TO RESOLVE IN LOCO LUNFO HOS)

ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS?

SECRET:

BT

SECRET

---

## Page 5

10

DISPATCH

Chief,

SLASSEICAIION

SECRET

PROCESSINE ALISA

MATACD FOR BENEY NE

HO INDEXING MOONED

ORLY QUALITED DCI

CAN JUDGE INDEXMA

SUBJECT

Chlot of Station, JuVAVE

ANCLEYE/15 COntACE W1Th FrAnk "LATEy" ROSENTHAL

ED • REFERENCES

Reference: JIWAVE-7900, 27 June 1967.

Translited under separate cover per reference

are coples of three JMWAVE memoranda so the FBI dated 24

July and 11 Auguat 1965, and 15 June 1067. Subject:

Procurement of Arme and Munitions by American GroUp.

Gary L. FLUSTIROFP

Attachments - USC

Memos (3)

Dlatribution:

8- WH/COG

LS SOS THE 111-2-7

CROSE DEFEREECE TO

ESPATCH TOROL ANY HUSHER

UFCA-37003

CLABLE ICATION

→ its ins

C300981

JUN 3 0 1967

.. 20. 2409 1067

12130-8-19211

---

## Page 6

• 0sta

09458,

Bal,

DATE:

M4/C03/10

7151

29 June 1067

CARLA SOCHLIARLAR DARSAMIAAION

30

comr

RID.COPY

D

0018-07

MIISAGE FORM

•SECRET

TADES L DE8880N

EStURN 10-.

NO MONK I REEMANO

201 - 300985

D

Tito and sino time

Pose,

SECRET

29 23 07 Z

1 10: Г JUWAVE

ГідріТукАрок туріС AlCLSVE/15

REF:

JAMAVE 1900 GN 00397)

FOLLOWING QUERIES FROM JUSTICE DEPARTKENT HAVE EMERGED

FROM MEETINGS WITH OFFICE GENERAL COUNSEL. REQUEST REPLIES

SOONEST •

CITE DIRECTOR 1 5 8 0 5.

A. DID ASCLEVE/15 VOLUNTEER HiJISELF TO LNERGO OR DID

THEY APPROACH HIM INITIALLY. DATE FIRST AJCLEVE/15 CONTACT LNERGO.

B. WIIO INFORMED INERGO OF JULY 1965 DEAL. ANCLEVE/15

OR JWAVE.

C. ON WHAT DATE WAS INERGO INFORMED.

D. SAME INTO B AND C ABOVE FOR OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION.

B. WHAT WERE AUCLEVE/15'S SOURCES FOR ITEMS OR COMPONENTS.

F. WERE THOSE SOURCES WITHIN OR WITHOUT STATE OF

FLORIDA. •

G. JUSTICE HAS INTO TO EFFECT THAT ANCLEVE/ 15 NADE

PROFIT ON OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION WHICH HE ATTEMPTED TURN IN

-CONTINUED-

FRIDABNO OFFICER

COOMOIMATINO OICKIN

_SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER IMAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIANICO.

COPy RICA

---

## Page 7

00100

EMACA FORM

TOIAL COPIES

SECRET

SOUTINO AND/OS PAPAIS. MIN SY

0118)

CARLA NACHRIAHIAY DISSIASIALATIQHE

aT w

€00₽

RID COPY

100 I OsON

9150.

D

• ve

Jole one than dedi

#SPURN BO

BRANCH

Aud 10

Toke sailorica

PAGE TWO

fant road

CITE DIRECTOR /5805

7

TO "THE COMPANY" WITHOUT SUCCESS. PLEASE COMMENT.

?. ALSO PLEASE ELABORATE ON STATEMENT PARA 2 REF THAT PEN

JIVAVE INSTRUCTIONS ANCLEVE/15 COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND

ROSENTHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIANY IN PASSING SILENCERS AND

GERNADES. *

3. JUSTICE HAS SUGGESTED POSSIBILITY USE ANCLEVE/15 TO ASSIST

ROSENTHAL OBTAIN ADDITIONAL MATERIAL AS BASIS FOR ARREST OF

ROSENTHAL FOR HAVING POSSESSION OF SUCH MATERIALS. APPRECIATE

JUWAVE COMMENTS.

END OF MESSAGE

OGC

C/WH/COG/CICS

(draft)

|(dra?*)

W71/-0/NH5 3706

RCPIODUCHON Di

SECHFT

502000 2000 1 00 0g4

#l rote +-08 80-50 dollar

12 12 7m 092000 ..

'ILA TIGE THE ISINING DIFICE IS P. MITED.

---

## Page 8

SECRET

NOTIFIED

PERROGUETION

PROMIBATED

ACTION

(DIN COPY

FILE -*:

ANCE CUPY

O... Buor Dunkinte

defiesta

1555...

SEGREIZTZOSZ

WAVE

E-ДАНЕ 7980

ABSTRACT

PRIORLEY DIRECTOR

IYPIC ANCLEAVE/ 15

REF DIRECTOR 14671

1o ANCLEVE/ 1S CURRENTLY COOPERAT ING WIIN LOCAL

FBI IN INVEST OF FRANK "LEFTY ROSENT MAL.

2. ANCLEVELIS INITIALLY BECAME INVOLVED WITH

ROSENTHAL IN JULY 6S WHEN DIEGO EMILIANO EB ORCE Sauthor.:.*:

TORRES 8201-284161) INTRODUCED HIM TO ROSENTHAL

AND

S1..

NORMAN ROINMAN. (BORGES WAS AGENT FOR ROSENT HAL

R.0. :

IN PURCHASE OF WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES. PER INWAVE

INSTRUCTIONS AMCLEVE/ 15 COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND

ROSENTHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIARY IN PASSING

SILENCERS AND GRANADES FROM HERMINIO (DIAZ)

SANDALSO 1281-2030401 AND FRANCISE! :RODRIGUES,

AN g

ABSTRICS

TAMAYO 8201- 293114) TO BORGES WHO IN TURN PASSEN

THE MATERIAL TO ROSENTHAL.

3O LOCAL FBI WAS NOTIFIED AT INE LINE PUT

AFTER ASQUI ONE WEEK JAGAVE INSIRUCIED ANCIEVE/ :5

TO WITHDRAW HAVING DISCOVERED THAT GOLO WITN WHICH •

LIDE

RECORDS CELICER STAIR

1276::.

cata

d0Gd0r3 aul coordinate

18 appropriato.

wits rate

501-254161

IPSee 67

---

## Page 9

•PAGE 2 JNWAVE I900 SECRET

HE WAS IN COITACT WAS COMPOSED OF GANGSTER ELEMENTS.

A• FROI JULY 6S TO CIRCA OUT 66 ARCLEVE/ 15 NOT

INVOLVED VITH ROSENT HAL ALTHOUGH AT VARIOUS TIMES

ROSENTHAL CALLED AMCLEVE/ 15 AND ASKED HIS HELP

OBTAIN WEAPOS AND EXPLOSIVES WHICH AMCLEVE/ 1S

REFUSED. AROUND OCT 66 ROSENT MAL CONTACIED AMCLEVE/ 15

AT LATIERS RESIDENCÈ AND IHREATENED HIM BECAUSE

EQUIPMENT SUPPLIED BY BORGES TO ROSENTHAL WAS FAULTY.

ANCLEVE/1S THEN MADE AND GAVE ROSENTHAL 120 PENCILS

AND 58 FUSE DEVICES WHICH SEEMED TO SATISFY ROSENT HAL.

5. AMCLEVE/ 15 DID NOT REPORT PARA FOUR

• ABOVE TO

MWAVE UNTIL 9 JUNE 67 AFTER ROSENT HAL HAD AGAIN

CONTACTED HIN ON 6 JUNE S7, THREATENED HIM AND ASKED

HIN FOR MORE EQUIPMENT. LOCAL FBI WAS ADVISED BY

JAWAVE ON 15 JUNE 67 OF AMCLEVE/ 15 ROSENT HAL CONTACT S

OF OCI 66 AND 6 JUNE 67.

6. AS REPORTED IN PARA 3 OF REF AMCLEVE/ 15

CURRENILY TRYING TO SUPPLY ROSENTHAL UNDER INSTRUCTIONS

LOCAL FBI. FBI HAS PROMISED MAXIMUM SECURITY AND

---

## Page 10

ta-states

PAGE J JVAVE SOO SECREI

PROTECT FOR ANGLEVE IS, FBI NAS NOT NOTIFIED LOCAL

POLICE DUE POSSIBILITY POLICE PENETRATED BY GANGSTER

ELETENT®

%. ANCLEVE/IS CLAINS NONE OF MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY

SUPPLIED ROSENTRAL WAS OF VOFACI ORIGIN, ME ALSO CLAINS HE

NEVER SUPFLIED ROSENTHAL VIIM C-A EXPLOSIVES.

SO NO ADDITICIAL JAVAVE INFO ROSENIMAL AND

ROTHMAN. NO OPS INTEREST BORGES RODRIGUEZ, DIAZ

DECEASED.

9.: POUCHING NAS COPIES OF UNVAVE MENOS TO FBI

UFGA-27888.

SECRET

201-15÷46?

2558e67

---

## Page 11

14-00000

--

28 June 1967

-d "*

MÉMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

•SUBJECT:

REFERENCES: a. Memo for Rocord, 26 June 1967, by LuRH.

mamo subjoct

b.

1. In my meeting with the Department of Justice today, !

confirmed that

was our man. I outlined the pre-

liminary information we had developed on the transactions between

him and one Lefty Rosenthal.

Z. Justice was advised that our information disclosed that

had passed sllencers and grenaded to Rosenthal

daring July 1965, and that in October 1966 he had furnished pencila

and fuses. I also stated that it was our understanding that

was in contact with FDI/Mlami and that it had been adviaed

of these dealings. Juitice was toid that the iteme involved were not

of Agency origin. It was emphasised, however, that thie was our

preliminary conclusion and that we would undertake to verify it.

3. Justice acknowledged that FBI reporting disclosed

as its contact but appareitly the details are some -

what vague. To make a lederal case agalsat Rosecthal because of his

suspected involvement in the bombirgs, it will be necessary to show

that the iteme used were obtained through interstate commerce. A

preliminary reading suggests prosecution under Title i8 Section 837.

Out of concern for the allegation of entrapment, Juatice asked that

E

---

## Page 12

we supply answera to the following: (a) did

volunteer Staself to the FBI or did ll approach him initially:

(b). who informed the F'Bl of the July 1965 deal - the Agency or

¡(e) on what date was thia information given:

(d) cimilarly as regardo the October 1966 transactlon, Rhe date

the laformation faralded and by whom: (e) what were

Boards for the items or their components: (f) were

these: sources within or without the State of Florida? And inel-

dentally were is aware khat supposedly

Healined

a "profit" for furnihing the October 1966 leme and that he tried

without mccens to turn it into the "company" p While I agreed to

undertake to obtain the information requested, I suggested that

much of it might be readily avallable from the FBi. Justice con-

coded this and intenda to have further discusslona with 1l.

I. During the course of the meeting the interesting

hypothelo was eggested to the effect that

might have been "moonlighting" for Rosenthal, and only when he

began to feel the pressure did he start reporting to the Agency and

the FBI.

5.

Under strictly controlled conditions with

neting as a conduit, Justice is considering the posalbility

of assloting Rosenthal to obtain hie needed items, whereupon he

will be arrested immediately for possession. I fold them while we

might be willing so havell

so used we were under -

etandably concerned over the adverse comment thai our employse'a

involvement conid generate.

6. Os a ratter thas may be related: one Alhert LARRAIN

Maestro la alleged to have admitted to

that he has

been involved in the bombinge with Rosenthal and to have said more

explosives were seeded. LARRAIN Maestre is a fuzitive under a

narcotics undietnent having formerly resided at 153 East 57th Street,

New York, New York. Do we have any information on this person?

-...nt.ra

• .

Assistant General Counsel

OGC:

Distribution:

Original - Subjeet

1 - Signer

1 - Chrono

---

## Page 13

inSON NOTES ON

28 INE TELECON

AmcLevE

115 currently cooperaing FRI

Bocame Involed R July 65

On station Instructiong cooporatod an intermediary in passing stuff

silencers and grenades--at that FBI informed

Instructed to withdraw

Unti) Oct 66 - was threatened - asked to wake or obtain

At this potnt he made certain things 150 pencils. Did not tell

station"until fairly recently

Then put in touch with LNERGO & June told 9 June told FBI 15 June

$350.00

PBI man called up north

15 wants their assistance "to disappear"

Probably not losing a great deal

-.....

+ DONE

---

## Page 14

14-00000

MEDIAFT

28 June 1967

NOTE FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

1. Stasion reply sent 1640 houre 27 June (IMWAVE 7900).

2. AMCLEVE/15 currently on Station rolen at $350 per month.

He has bees cooperating with FB!.

• 9. During July 1965, 13 Introduced to Rosenthal by third party.

On Station Instructions he cooperated with Rosenthal acting an inter-

mediasy la passing to him silencere and grenades. FBI informed.

4. In accordance with Stallon Inesructions, 15 broke olf

contact with Rosenthal.

3. On October 1966, 19 recontacted by Rosenthal. Rosenthal

lemanded he make or obtala additional items threatening him with bodili

harm and aloo complaining previous items faulty. Whereupon 15

furnished Rosenthal 150 pencile and some fuses. Station only recently

advised of this transaction and 15 put in contact with FBI.

6. Blame furalahod July 1963 and October 1966 transactiona

not Agency origin.

7. On 6 June, 15 agala contactod by Rosenthal.

8. Oa 9 June, 15 reported Rosenthal contact to Station.

9.

On 19 June, Station advieed FBI.

."e.

ПоТо

28 Du;

---

## Page 15

20, 19 monte station nolatanco in doing a aluappearing ast.

the came.

* Il, 15%o T'8l contact nor da Waahlagion for discussions Fo

12 Re propost i

ahly probably oss mad on

13 DIR 14671, Henso's Immediate reaction

win, much bal would waat to check it further.

meletant Conor

---

## Page 16

MPBLACE BORN

22

SECRET

0CST

ClOS

806) To

88%0

DAIE.

7151/1918

26 JuDO 1967

CADIA ANCASIANLAR @ISMALATIONI

0v..

COnt

< WUH/COGS

or there r

NO INOR

$140

RID COPY

ADA,

1002

o IPRIORITY JAMAVE

RIBAT ANCLAVE-25

IMMEDIATE HANDLING

1.

DEPARTIENT JUSTICE INVESTIGATING ONE LEFTY ROSENTIAL BELIEVED

TIED IN WITH MIAMI CRIME FIGURES AND INVOLVED IN SEVEN RECENT BOSBINGS

MIAHI AREA®

2.

ROSENTHAL ALLEGEDLY APPROACHED U.S. CITIZEN NORMAN ROTHMAN IN

DOURED WIIO PUT HIM IN TOUCH AMCLEVE-15 WHOM ROSENTIAL KNOWS TO BE

AFTILIATED NOFACT. ROSENTHAL CLAIMS AMCLEVE-15 SUPPLIED HIM WITH CAPS

PRIMERS AND C-4 EXPLOSIVES ALSO CLAIMS OFFERED TO DISCUSS BACKGROUND

BOMBINGS WHO INVOLVED, AND WHY, WITH ANCLEVE-15 BUT LATTER INDICATED NO

INTEREST®

3. ROSENTHAL REPORTEDLY ASKING AMCLEVE-15 TO SUPPLY 240 POUNDS

C-A WITH CAPS AND PRIMERS BY 1 JULY 67.

4. LOCAL POLICE INVESTIGATING SEVEN BOMBINGS BUT NOT AWARE

FOREGOING DETAILS RELATIVE AMCLEVE-15.

5. APPRECIATE PRIORITY COMMENTS INCLUDING INSIST ANY POSSIBILITY

. *

MATERIAL GIVEN ROSENTHAL COULD BE WOFACT ORIGIN.

COOMIMATINO CAPICITY

SICRET

Pastud as to stames

REPRODUCTION MY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

ВАТУДІСАТИ

ІРКВ

cOrY Ned,

'**

27 00

00 Z

NS

PILE NO CO PILA MO

A RS

•E/WHie, c/c, c/ELz, C/ElINT.

Fail i t

"Colorera

14671

CITE DIRECTOR

-7:

---

## Page 17

ROUTING ANO/DE ANIMAIS - BEEP MY

EN: 19A:38 801080..

TOTAL EPIt

SECRET

DAtE:

CADIO BACRITANAI ELASEMUNATION

#*

INDER

D AIIPOR

• MEANOR

PLA BIG

RID COPY

fore end time"

PAGE TWO.

CITE DIRECTOR (4GJ1

Г:"

6.

PREFER NO DISCUSSION WITH LOCAL LNERGO AT THIS TINE.

NO IDENTIFIABLE IQS TRACES ROSENTHAL. NUMEROUS INERGO REPORTS

CITE ROTHHAN FOR GANBLING, GUN RUNNING AND OTHER SHADY ACTIVITIES IN

U.S., CUBA AND MEXICO INCLUDING EFFORTS ESTABLISH ANTI-CASTRO BASE

IN YUCATAN

END OF MESSAGE

WILLING. BROS

C/NHD

ACHY COU

OGC |

ASSASIAO COPICAN

_COORDIMATIMO ENDICEAS

SECRET

#5 Arto do Abo

REPRODUCTION AT OTHER THAN THE ISSUNO OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

com No

---

## Page 18

1d-0d0

26 Juno 1969

MEMORANDUM fOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT!

1. The Departmone ol Juntleo has bees Invotigating

one Lofty Rosential whom thay ballore to bo led la with kay

mombers ol organted erime lo the Miami aires and who sino

shey belleve has boon lavolved la noven rocent bomblage la

Bo Minmi ares.

Aecording to the lolormation the Departmont

sno gotten no las. Roosnthal wons to a Valled Scales citizon

named Norman Rothias In the Dominiean Republie and throug.

him directly or ladiracly ebrouga a sermos brown no Dieso.

Resenthal was pur la soued wich

Rosenthal underatanda that

le artached

to CLA and elalma that_

eupplied him mles capo,

primare and C-d espioalres.

Ronenthal le reported to have

mbout the bankrround of the

horsblags and who was Invoived and why, bull

cald he had no Interest la tha background

& Rodenchel la reported to be aning

8o supply 140 pounde of C-A amploolvus with cape and primere

by saturday and has tald l

that twenty more

Derbinga are scheduled. The loent police aro lavootigagiag

the coven bombingo uhlea bavo takon place and do not know ahla

other background material.

Juntles would vory much like to have Rosenthal

prosecuted and accordingly wouldlike to have the asploalrao.

delivered to Rosenthal but to dave 99% of ll faulty and have the

slato provofura bir en the poosasalon al lhe 1% al valla

caplonives.

Tha Juatico Dapartment hao a report from te

---

## Page 19

14-00009

Bureau'd Security Stasi reporting to the Bureau'e Organlsed

Crime Dirlalon walca states that

Agens la a GS statal.

AWRENCE R. HOUSTO

eneral Counsel

---

## Page 20

14-00000

auna. - ==

--.-

---

## Page 21

14-00000

2101109

Cideng

Chia

C3: 01

115.3%

-STANCA 02

FEET In Cubaa Goveranos:

47

During JITiS debrietas

the f011081=5

1a10227+102

above subject:

1957, AIRIVE3-1 provided

0f larch

Goverh=ort,

To solo cd wIscar in the Cuban

Including

loss iscostant than

London,

It had baca

those

trO joars,

Incas lost

150 sears earlier.

junctiors

substara1a1 portlos of its

Ind operatias elorents.

Cubana da ditco -c0

0121y

1n 1966,

surchases abroad without

assistance 0d

{or-erly

the oar Cossarcial Clilcos.

an operating clerest o.

C=-113300,

1988

mad Its sunceloss

was abolishod late

were taica aver by an independent

Instituto

He at Libre +13a

sas scheduled to se abolished and

an operatirs elesent

replaced by

Peorsary For

In January

the CCC =3s

sucjins the fossibilty of

transferriss CLSIUChi, an Ogera 15a elesent of MINCE

the Sisar liaistry.

SOURCE CORSIT:

This tread of events appears to indicate.

t2: 13.

the future

MINCEs, PuncElosS.1ll

be lurtber seduced

eliminated cobblerely.

aa6 possibly even

NAV

= Caser, ELB Divisiön are ise/n/ui

GS C038

EATE TIRE.

said 5w04:3-00

26 Ap. €T

C34-0154S0 AET.BON

114-3"3

6- 201-7-17124

SECRET

19-210 - 120 - 31

DTEN 63

---

## Page 22

...

D:61a+ 1000 27061611

jost visions Coo

113010-5

the.

Co--:-=1=1

ic:

÷:.)

racha-as

thu

2251C

Chris

hoaded

by

Frensic=o

5520.1

3:

10r23a

chandent

[.:)

•cS.

Cabas

1005

21020 C-7

3: E

nais

Lent 2052550-1

PIn rebruary 1037, 73103109

no. Contruction

noncon

CO p4506=00

construcilos equip-ent.

Th13

aission was hoaded

by Ecrassdo

Herrandia.

13.

The

eronis which horalc, tho reduction ia

Importance

Cio

Cor-0:e1s1

0:1:c0.12

Loncon beraT

a$515r0at

0!

mic.

lor'cr

lovel of corpescoco +128

those

tho preca

cded

+h02.

Eringles.

parsons coccacly

assicacd

to

che

1 19

20=:0n

And only BAr 0.

sevc=

of

S05001175

and

brainess

an e

¿'arcos

6528

expcricrco: 1a. fors1gg

trade

2d12, represúneative of C63.22011;°

Orla-do. *70:270

Crespo,

rosantative c.?

raDICUBA,

and fuban

ICOTOSeNTa

GUIL

Yero;

reprosontativo

mORT aad FERRI: 03T.

130

0U112L10+1

-parently. was that ho vas a =c=yer of

tho

Co==unist

OIgar1Z2I1On1

and

of

30:330 Had GUAl apparontly were that they were Cos unist 83558

seabors.

...

---

## Page 23

14-00000

Ri Lai gisan) sod atita t' ja tácá ia 'cai aà anigro norgme n 'canre doinr .

---

## Page 24

=51-

curatin

201

"COUTATE-T

---

## Page 25

Mctoiedi lit

14-00000

---

## Page 26

14-00000

---

## Page 27

14-00000

,...

---

## Page 28

• i=

14-00000

"can"

---

## Page 29

14-00000

1**i

1E003.

---

## Page 30

14-00000

---

## Page 31

Torer to ar

---

## Page 32

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 33

1d-0d0d

* .

---

## Page 34

: 4-00000

."..,,.

---

## Page 35

. . =∞

4-0000l

. ..-. -....

•i.aitetmeotdudo wialiallll

---

