# 104-10400-10313

## Page 1

1104-10400-10313

XAE-808

• ARANT: YSSERAM

•ALESERACY

19600533

107. 1: 18.9.00

ma chard a weddedal renter too,

MEMORANDUM FOR IHE RECORD

52 7H

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD

° FBI question CONCeRNINg RepoRt THAT

FBI LIAISON

1. At 0900 on 9 December Mr Paptch of the FBI called and advised that

the Bureau had a communication from their Mani field office setting forth

Information which had been réceived in a memorandm from our office tastiam

concerning a report which had been received fron a Wester diplomat alleging

and executed jointly by the Chinese Communists and CASIRD through Internediaries.

F11 Mr Papieh provided some details concerning the information received from their

Mian office which in subatance 18 the same information as that set forth in

JNWAVE-cablé:8658 (IN 75902). Mrzlapieh advised that the Bureau had during

the night located Robert Nao, Interviewed him, and was inforned by him that.

he has no information concerning CORtES and FEITO. Mr. Popteh stated that the

Bureau 1s very much interested in this allegation, is endeavoring to run down

the lead relating to the bank in New York; that the Bureau has Information

concerning Ramon-t. CORRES, born 31 Auguat 1916, who vas-Indicted in-Dallas,

Texas, In 1960 on a charge of Impersonating the Honorary Consul of Guatemala.

He said that this CORTES, according to Bureau Införmation, was In Mexico CIty

1S-01-August 1962 and-this Cortes might be considered as possibly being

1dentical with the Ramon B. Cortes mentioned In this matter.

2. Me. Baptal stated that the bureau would like to evaluate this

information If possible and he would guess that this information originated*

with someone who had just come out of lamens and that this might be some rumor

or something planted by the Soviets to make 1t rough on the CHICaNs and CAStrO.

It was agreed that anything might be possible but he gave no Information sup

porting any much theory. le said that the Bureau was very much interested 1n

Identifying the source and 1t would appreciate any information we can give on

where and how this dinlomat got this information since it would help the Bureau

to evaluate this Information.

He said that the bureau would find the Identity of

the source and possible access to the source, 1f In this country, most helpful.

3.

The matter was discussed with Mr Wittm Off3, and he subsequently

advised that he had discussed the matter with representatives of Sand with

Melene and that I could advise Mr

fench of the identity of the source in

the event the Bureau was insistent. After discusaing the matter further with

Archihten and consistent with his position, I telephonically contacted

MaPayich and advised him as follows:

The lester diplonat in this case, who 1s our source, 1 e

Fromal diplomat. We do not know the identity of his source.

Document Number 362-146 RECORD COPY.

fOr FOlA Review, on

WimpeL

Togar

9 DEC63

2075284248

--

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SOURCE

bo

This-French plomat has reported Information from his sources

on occasions which have proven to be not too reliable.

c. Our relationship with this front diplomat do somewhat delicate.

do yao dutiat 18 not in the Valted States, bas not been in the

United States, and 1s not currently 1a & location where he could

be directly contacted by the Bureau.

e. We have in fact no direct contact or direct cormnications at

this time but we do have some possible means of developing

further Information which the source may have on thia matter.

SOURGA

I. The French dipichat may have reported similar information to

his government and If further Information is received concer-

1ng this allegation, the fact that this allegation came from a

French source should of course be considered.

go We are endeavoring to take all possible stepa througa our own

means to develop further Information on this allegation. We

are giving priority attention to the matter and it is hoped that.

we will be in a position to provide the Bureau additional

Information®

I pich remarked that perhepa ve could contact the-frena

directly on this matter and I responded by stating that we were doing

all we could.

Chief; CD 3I0

Vec: "Mr. Waltten -C/ha/3

---

