# 104-10166-10096

## Page 1

104-10166-10096

Fong

• DIRECTOR

FROM & HASK

ACTON: 'M 9

INTO : :0P. AD0P/A, 9/6%

067 20 17877 60

PRIORITY

IN 35397

.1N05397

PRITY DIR CITE YASH TOSS

NO WIGHT ACTION

JANET

AETS NO MASH 1P82 (TW 316Z8)*

BO MASH OS9S CIME RHUGO)

SINCE RET A SENTE CRESPI-ANO ALBERTO ESPIDER CALF AS "

HAVE AGREED COOPERATE AND CASE OFFICER HAS COTINUED MELA

ORGANIS THEIR ESPORTS FOR OR VEST OREDITE.

HE CAN CONSIDE

•ITMEDIÄTE ACTION THEIR PAPE IAPERATIVE AND HAVE ALREADY DATERED

THE PRELIMINARY PLANNING STAGE. THIY ANXIOUS PECEIVE INDICATION

2. CRESPI SENTI

AT GIBARA ORIENTE CUBA TO HAVA AS TOURIST CO 27 OCTOBER PLE

PURPOSE OF TRIP IS TO ARRANGS MESTING TO DE-KELD AT SEA DETWEEN

CRESPS AND ALBERTO AND EQLL PERSO

-36500

WAS

403

SCIZED 5Y. INFA.

CAND DICE UNTIL PROPERTY

LAWYER. TO

SECRET

REPRODUCTION TY OTHER THAN

соритаты т306.8

4/PV

---

## Page 2

118598"53T.

01. 08

PRESENTLY A

ENIAOTICA SEANT SEN ATGEIOOEDE O:TOO ANACILNiGAO MI NIBICIS

1: 19S PREY 1079IN3 AJAJISE CASTRO SINCE 98D 189%.

SO. 90UNJ LiMÚ DISH INSTZUCTED ATTIRPI LOCATE A PADIO OPERATOS

TITU THE ABOVE PERSONS, AFTER MEETING AGRANDED POUNS WILL RETURE

FOR PEYDEZUOUS MEETING.

IF RADO» AVAIL HE YILL RETURN MASH ANTER

PEIDEZVOIS WITH ALBERTO FOR TRAININO AND RETURN JLICY VITH CRESPI

CAO PIOPOSE OF ADOVE BE DELUDIS MSETINO IS TO DOTILY FIRST MAND

BRISFING SITUATION, ISASTE, SURRESTED OPERATITIAL PRIGEDUR S

TEACH INFIL AREAS, ETC. MY HU!! PRELIMINATY APRAYJSMTHTS

OF PARAP. AJOVE.

ANTONIO CUSSTA VALLE SON IS JINE ZE AT SAUTIAGO DE CUBA.

PEDRO PENARANDA HACHACO BORN 1A SSPTEMBER 1940 .AT MORON

CAMAQUEY.

DO CLYDE TO JEWSTT SORN IS AUGUST, 1949 AT MOLIIN ORIENTE.

E.

RADOP IT ONE EXFIL TROY CUBA RE PARA 2 ABOVE WILL

RETURN HIM

IF NOT WILL ATTEMUT OBTAIN SERVICES AYRAST NAVAL OP

INSUN COMING UNISE MON SUES

PROVIDE TOECISE AVE SUCCESSTUL AND METHE

SATISFACTORY TO CRESPI IT IS PLANNED TO ORBANIZE TEA AND COMMENCE

PAINING FOR INFILO SUSSEQUEYT ARMS DELIVERY, OPERATIONEO

eTC.

• SECRET

-SOPROUCTION DY OTHER, THAN THE ISEMIER ENTROL 18 !

z/PV

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-1ss

1T:16Ta149 25519T9 MASN ASSIST MTATY C95S81 T5ae E0R.l0511

C 999U19÷ TUTS ÀO!ST A978SE PENAERI"S PARA? S> 5U§S!S?L•C=

1970-1L1E3 513U59TT D49A S AS 35-1 H9SE9 19 0P 199290EE

1. ESTEP-APPROUAL SO, DOA'S MILL DE REDUESTED FOR CRESPÀ AND.

DI3U.0TS DATA SO SUT ASOUESI SMTEDIATE NiTE CHEER FOR JEROSÁTOTE

LIFO.

DO OF MESSAGE

GRIENTE AFTER ASNORNI TEAM COLLO GET' CONTRDL OF BENEM APEA.

PRODUCTIOH.BY.OTH

1B8UI P92

---

