# 104-10110-10430

## Page 1

104-10110-10430

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Manhattan Field Office

26 April 1963

DDS/IOS

ADDS/ IOS

ASST/IOS

C/ID

3

C/CS)

C / SRD

C/IB

C/ SAB

C/S

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, Investigative Division

SUBJECT

43 872

B SD/3

1.

Reference Is made to your telephone call of

25 April 1963.

- 50/1

2.

the housebolder at

oa that date, Agent O'FARE contacted 06

• No Yog

to re-brlel bia in accordance with Headquarters instructions.

Jimmediately apologized for not contacting

any one at Mro

regarding an incident vilen occurred on

ither Monday or Tuesday, cc or 23 ApriL. According tol

on one of those dates the "Philadelphia Inquirer" newspaper

tried to telephonically contactl

06 In the absence of

next-door

neighbor, Mrs.

Inguired about the SUBJECT.

4. Mrs. l

subsequently informed

- 06

wile that the "Inquirer" vanted to know such things as:

A. Who CARSWELL WaS?

06

B. Was he related to the

Ce

When was the, last time CARSWElL was seen

at thel

D.

Did the neighbor

-know anything

about CARSWELl, in view of the fact that he

was supposed to have lived at

According tol

Informed the

"Inquirer" thet she nelter new CARsWat nor enything about him.

no advised further that when hrs!

Informed Mrs.

66

ALTS

FILES

---

## Page 2

14-00000

0

of the all, she expressed interest in what was going on,

since tie daily papers contained references to CARSWELL's

release and his employment by CIA.

06

6.

reported that his wife advised Mrs.

that the SUBJECT was a friend of her husband,

and that he, the SUBJBCT, traveled a lot and

merely ised

place to leave some clothes and

occasiorally receive mail.

It is noted that in January 1961, Items in the

his address atl

06

was again requested to Inform Agent

O'HARE of any future contacts with him by anyone concerning

the SUBJECT, and he again agreed to do so.

RANCIS R. FAVORINI

Special Agent In Charge

---

