104-10110-10285
Seeoeerrceeseeee reise STnage .
Siete a SOULE

Office Memorandum + onirep staTES GOVERNMENT

Oe ee Fite DATE: 20 January 1y00
rrom~: Chief, Alien Affairs Staff
SUBJECT: Immigration and Naturalization Service, Relations with

(Miami, Florida)

1. On 15 January 1900, at 0900 hours, Mr.
WH, III( Caribbean), advised that Bernie Reichardt had telephonically
informed him that the owner of the impounded vessel had suggested
the possibility of I&NS providing a letter to the owner of the
vessel stating that the Service had inspected the vessel on its
arrival and found no passengers.

2. Mr. Reichardt also reported that he had informally
queried the District Director, I&NS, Miami, on the possibility
of securing such a letter, however, he had no idea that the matter
@syould be referred to the I&NS Central Office in Washington, D. C.
“readily agreed that the Service coula“6e requested to
‘provide such a letter as, in fact, we had made arrangements with
the Service for the entry of these individuals in the United States.

3. In response to further inquiries, Mr stated that
on the arrival of these two individuals, the entry of the aliens
into the United States had not been cleared with the Office of
Security as called for by Regulation 50-110. The parties concerned
(wno arrived in December ly5y) were Manuel ARTIME and Roberto VARONA.
The OS Indices contained no record of VARONA. A file on ARTIME
(#210836) reflects that the WH Division requested his polygraph in
Florida and SSD provided an escort to accompany him to New Orleans
in order to enabie him to obtain a visa to Mexico. He did secure
the visa and is allegedly now in Mexico. The SSD had informed the
AAS of the fact that they had been requested to provide such an
escort and in fact, with regard to the endeavor o1 the WH Division
to obtain a visa from Mexico for the subject, on or about 15 Decem-
ber iy5y, tais Staff had received information from Mr. Richard
Haberstroh that Mr. Reichardt uad contacted the District Director
in Miami, Fiorida, and requested that the Service provide a letter
woicn would indicate that ARTIME would be readmissibie into the
United Staces. The puipuse of that letter was tu satisfy a require-
went levied by the Mexican Consul in Miami before they would grant
6 visa to ARTIME. Mr, was informed that the Service could

eo

1 QETURNTO CIA
Qackground Use Only
© Bo Net Reproduce

Ge


SECRET Se

not provide such a letter. The fact that Reichardt had unilaterally
requested such a letter from the District Office of Immigration was
called to the attention of Colonel Edwards and he telephonically
intormed the Chief, WH Division, that the Immigration Service would
strongly prefer if such request: were levied directly to the Central
Office and not by CIA representatives in the field.

4. At 10:45 a.m. on 15 January, the Acting Director of
Security was briefed. He suggested that the full story be requested
in writing from the WH Division with regard to this recent arrival,
and also that the WH Division put in writing any requests for sup-
port by the Immigration Service in the form of letters to assist
the owner of the vessel oyen has been impounded.

5. At 2:20 p.m. is so informed. At that time he
inquired as to whether I&NS would provide a letter supporting the
position taken by the Captain of the vessel. The Captain's position
is that he discovered two stowaways aboard on the day in question,
and upon arrival in the United States, turmed the stowaways over to
the Igns¢{_ was informed that it is doubtful if the CIA
would issue such a request to Immigration, however, he was requested
to submit his request in writing to the Director of Security.

2.
6. On 18 January, Mr. Rod Landreth, of re ottice,
advised that he had prepared a letter as requested and forward
it to this Office through channels.

OS/AAS/WJC:es 20 Jan 60

SEGRET
34,

