# 104-10182-10106

## Page 1

104-10182-10106

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

055

DAÏ8 • 21 AJG 62

1O

• DIRECTOR

PROM, GLADULA CITY

ACTION WN 8

IN/O •

29/22 AUG 62/Á

ADCCO:

TIMS (ACTION))

CLASSITES MESSAGE

BLE SECRET

AUG 22 05367 62

* ROUTING

IN 49388

MR WAYS AIR SALV CITE SUCT BEES

RS: AT 362S CAXT655)

1. SEA DELL ARRIVED CUAT TECT CREA AT 2139 28 ALGO ACCONPAEIED

¿ BY LUG: LUCKIET. TRAVELLED IN FLIT CONVERTINLE BELOGING LUCHIT

VEZ BELL AND SHITH AT NAVA EXCELSICE HOTEL, SO STATICI TANGES F::

LUCHIEN.

• 2. RE REE PARA 2C, INCIO GARCIA CONLY IN SANE MICHE CALL TCH

SIT "YOU HAVE INSTRUCTIC"S TO LANT; NE NE GOING TO LUG A EFFING.

THE GENERAL HAS DEEN DISPOSED TO COCERATE, TO MAKE A JOLIT PGG-

CLANATION. HE WILL BE TRAVELLING TESDAY, WEN ME WAS TUR LEOGRATIC:

I AM GOING TO SEND HI:". CALE LAS 1W0E AT 1093 O: 12 AGO

Cd 219424PCOS COS TO C 2011

SECRET

PETES: 159

REPROOUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

1.5%

Lopp do.

---

## Page 2

machi

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTINO

DATE

10

ACTION

PAGE 2

GUAT 2426 IN 49338

GO TO THE INTER-CONTINENTAL HOTEL dI SARI SALVADOR".

HAIDY SAID.

"THE COAT WILL ARRIVE IN THREE HOURS.

DON'T WORRY. SEND ALL TIE

NESSACES DY ALL AVERICA CABLES". CALL jADE HORNING 23 AUG.

SOURCE PARA & ISER MAYA, SOURCE PAAS 2 AND SLEID-S ROGE

REPORT.

END OF MESSAGE

G/S COMMENTE: •CONCERNED PMONE CALLS MADE BY SMITH.

1.57

SECRET

Excited tree neare

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PREFIBITED.

Copy Ato.

3100

---

