hat CENTRAL, INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

1041018640236
ean

‘Tots suterat consains informatina afecting the Rational Defenay of tse Cotted Slates within the meaning of the Eajioours Laws Tus
IDC. toca tat and Toa the tmonemiiniog ov rerviston of which Io ADy madiner to am unauthorird person ta pronibited By Haw,

SECRET
dahl NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| Countay Cuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316/01221-64
SUWECT Osmin FERNANDEZ Concepcion . OATE DISTR. 24 September 1964 Ca
: No. paces 1 soe"
RertReNcts  CSCI-3/778,366 Latin ot

17 October 1963 ee

}
Wo
pare oF 1964 ee
INFO.
pace a Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQ. September 1964 FIELD REPORT NO.
‘THiS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE OEFINETIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

Soukce, A former Cuban IS officer who served withthe Cuban Intelligence
“Service until April 1964. ;

Headquarters Comments

The following report is oreof a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees’ take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

Source, although he does not know Osmin FERNANDEZ Concepcion,
“heard that FERNANDEZ was going to be assigned to the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).
According to source, FERNANDEZ, who 4s somewhat effeminate, is a
friend of Manuel PINEIRO and Cesar CUENCA.1

Headquarters Comment
1. Aside from the information included in the above referenced

report, the records of this Agency reveal no additional
identifiable information on Osmin FERNANDEZ Concepcion.

i 5
: 4
Hy SECRET = 3
: NO FOREIGN DISSEM 2
[Sa Te Tit Te [as____1RK__ ge a
—__REP_CINCLANT CINCSO # —— I8NS. |

8
a = rae ‘SCI -31601221-6.
et ~ +L AWASH! KO PROJECT (AMMUG {19
a a nly
WH/SA 7 (1) WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 2 Geaaa |

metre onourre PREVI perio 201 -334092

