# 104-10165-10049

## Page 1

104-10165-10049

201

file

21 August 1961

IDORANITOS PORS A/DER/A

SUBJECT

govarmont, has bean wollued by the Agony since thie defer

Son as sn unsalaried propaçande agent, being paid only

spenses for the activlties counceed at our request, he has

producod sadlo progress, tuken tours of Latin AnsIles, und

mitten bis books for our Cuben eparations. On one of his

tours ba vas able to speak to che Fresidonça of Haduras,

Venerala, Ecuedur, Argiatins, and Uruguay, and mo alectod

president es the Congress fox Freedom and Denocracy bald

last June la Monterideo, He le sor the freaideal ef the

peszanent group sponsoring thens cungresses (which are handed

by the Agensy) Inosa as the "Allansa para Litertad" (Alllanoe

for Liberty), Conte'a last trip tonk his to Montevideo fer

the BCO3OC mating, where be held press conferences, spoise on

rado no blavision emeral times, not vita various delegatoo.

and claim to have upeten at send langth vich U. S. Asbassador

Do the Q13, Delesseps BerTiBOn and MI. Coodada.

So Me cannider Canta Aguare to be the met effeetive

Onben propagandiot to anile and haviag a mignette sppeal

"the stranga t volce of Cuba " (Tidel Castro), "the stronges!

volta of dunocracy in Cuba" (Verttis, Suenos dires), and the

"Cuben camentatos ulet the presleye of lourd 8. Murrow and

the rating of Jack Far" (Time mgarine, 1811 1960).

Do Canto Aguaro will be la tashdagton on 21 Angust 80

report es his recent trip to penta dal Late and to diocuse ous

future plues for him. Je has toteated the ba u11l attape

to son Ambasendor Mortleen and Mi. Goodula unile ta the are.

In nloo bno askod 1l ho could spent to a prater offietal ube

SEGRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

le in a position to explain mat politioal setion polloy has

bean docided. for the Cuben miles or vith somone vno can

dinens with him conto's ldosa sor pollideal action la tha

Cuban problem.

TaLs Information on Coate Aguero La fonarded for

your background information in the event Messro. Mossieon or

Consula check out subjeer with the Agenay, In addieses, tha

Monteru Herdephur Diviaion 1a prepared to arrange a aceting

with conte agore 18 such a contest la destred by the A/DDP/A.

n'>

1S/ Raford 7. Eiersert

RAFORD W. HERBERT

Actlag Chia:

Haster Benepbers Divalen

05 (21 Ang 61)

DOR /ww/4/Plams

Dis trlbetion:

Orig. & 1 - Addresses

1 - AC/WED

2

C/a/4

WE/L/PA-Prop /

2 - sH/4/Plans

SEERET

1/SR

---

