104-10221-10003

sat

a, rr re Te |

Meuse cre hor

FULL TITLo/Nem ot: Wee tor Nive Cay Wt
PEI FRITF |

Sadist oa ad he ac,

Inctustve nates: _& Cet /96R — 2R Dec HEX. .

customiaL unit/Location: = OW EXO LL. coe
cccaee rot: SDS 2?

DELETIONS, TRAN:

ce RecN ERSTE SAREE CRNIRLATE TONE eee

p ay
7 |
a oy . " 7





al peat Aan ot Tea

SEORRT

mctoniva

Ghief of Utaticn, Cuntemwls City pe
Tepes Confivceted dy the[  piiiitary_ :

“AetiON SBGViNED - RITERENCED

wae

REVERENCE: GUAT-4326
r
1. GRNFRAL

eee :

Transmitted herevith please find copies of three tapes confiscated
by tho military from the guerrilles in operitions cudsequent to the
guerrt. atteck on the srl garrison at Panzoe (GUAT-4309, parograph 4).
The tepus wore recetved vy the Station from ODISEX in uid-Hovenber. The
Btetion mode copies to pave to the Aray and to ODIEYX and kept one
copy for study. The uriginals vere rettimed to the Amy after
@ master copy wes mnt

2. THE TAPES

The original “apeu vere small and were eigit in number ond vere
Fecorted by the guorrillas-et the apeod of 1 and 7/8ths. According to
informtion taken from the tapes, the recording van done on a Philips recorder.
Judging fron the oounds it ie félt that the tapes vere mia indours by tnex-
yeriexced peroynnel. This belief 19 supported by one of the documents captured
vnich vent into dete1] on the prvloms the guerrilins vere bw with the’

i yeeonler end on hov to corrert. than. ‘The nacter copy ade Ly the Stetion
{tronmmitted herevitn) was recorded at the same spex] on three tapes which
total about 16 hours cf poor Listening.

Atteciwemmt:
(conprmen)

Tapes, h/u

Distrib:ticn:

3 - Raa, w/att, r/w : 7
2+ Plles tree

AND; wet

‘e-yaewet TO

FO -TOT, 22 December 1064

LASSINICALION 7 nok rie avn

i

29-8



fe

- GONTINUATION OF - :
OISPATCH ctr

3. Bowe crow ymn pars

A. Tepo l sido 1. f spocch.sade by Victor Figo Galen (Mexicon _
Revapaperenn viw is very leftist) to guerrillas umfer the cowynd of Merco
Antonio Yon’ Soss. Generally, he informs the guerrillos that the rovolution
in Guatemmle {9 the revolution of Letin America, He reports that persons
in Latin Anerice eat Europe ere kownly interested in the Cuntenslan revolu-
tion and eemd letters to Gelnn affirming cvsir eupjort of it. fe’ then goes
into the pirodlens cf the apparent split betwen the 13 November “ov: sent end
the POT lee@ers'ip. Yo states thnt the PCT hss not given tho guerrilles the
proper support sui hes taken ‘too soft e line in the revolutionary strugsle. He
talked to the rr leadership and asked thet personal feelings be set aside and
suggested éonplete cooperetion vith the guerrilles to overthrov the present
government. 2t the ond 6f the tepe.the guerrilla theme. song is simg by e group
of guerrillas.

and eovatries ia Europe, Tse spasiker then goes on to explain how tho guerrilla
Publication, Revolucion Sete bao created great enthusioan (does not soy
where) and how 22 @ evare of the role the querrillne play in
Guatemls. Its min object To ‘to- attack imperisliom and the Gustemilea Govemn-
ment.

C. Tape 2 aide 1. This side deals with generalities on the revolu-
tion going on in Guatemla. It Aiscusben the need for a nev goverment to
represent the people. It states thet the guerrilla movenent ia the vanguard
of the sca of vorkers and campesinos. At the end of the taps it salutes
tho workers of the vorld.

D. Tape 2 eide 2. An unidentified voice discusses, in very general
term, the prodlesa of te guerrillas in shipping various articles (veapans,
literature and tapes) to aiffarent porto of the country. The aajor ohatacles
to smooth mivenente of the articles throughont the country aro polies aod aili-
tary cheek points on the major roads and the fact that large truck chipssuts

cannot be mounted, fereing the guarrilles to hand carry most of the material.
Torough necligence, emy guerrillas have been capture’ vith comprumtetug eeteriol
in their posvession. Pasudonyms are repeatedly mentioned cu tiie eide - Rolondo,
Rudy, ‘dan, and Mateo - vaich cannot be identified by tho Station.

E. Gepe 3 aide 1. This side te taken up dy en unidentified person
vesding passages out of Revolucion Scctalista end Marxist literature.

F, Tape 3 olde 2. Qa this olde thero are discussions of the problens
faced by the guerrillas The firot provlen ia the trouble the Kano General
wns having vith the Gutecslen Conommist Purty (the Party tended to isolate
{teal¢ froa the guerrillas). Gther prodlems included cumnnications between
guerrilla waite throughout the country} provless with tue recording sechine;
end tie xilea of putting out propagenda vhied can be understoal by the
compesin~s. “Li these pouviens vere discussed tn very genernl teras ouitting
Amara, pleewn end dstes.

&  UONTLAEToan Toes FROM TAPES

he inforustion found cn the tapes is Of no opsratioasl value to the
Btrtion since tt deale with procagunda and guerrtlle pro:leas already know by
the Btstica wut ts of Laterest to the epmorent offert oy the guarrilie
leaderchip to wee tapee as 0 menna nf uperotionel ccasmications sn
the 11) ‘tereta ceapcetnes and workers vith spoxen instead
The cperetional ver of tojes vould oovtete the seed thr printal tavemat
Biques shich are “city ent exatly comprised 4 guerrilla cas htd@ oc be: wm
to cortan ant trevel carcugh poiice sd ar: tae < jolats withoet becg
detertel. Sirss tie gevile 1 vise the guerrttlaa are interested ore for the
most cart Ui iterate (oenpeo!



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

parce y 3 EO Oe

SECRET el BOGASTOLT

ip

pore to-thea thin vould printed propginia. ‘The Station has sot based these *
conclusions solely on the thres tapes ‘trenautted vith this report. Bo

oe - operutions] problems foced by the guerrille lestership
and -propegania. ‘Tho Station vill sttengt to make copies of the tapes mentioned
by BaD be cbteinel. If the tapes cenmot be ecquired’ the
Brotion vill receive copies of the scripts taka fron the tapes (police are,



ve : ee
q NO INOF TING BLQUIEED.

valet of | LOM, J exle: : i EZ
m0, Omty GUALINIO ORS
i AN Root mDEXING.

Colefy - ok
maccoriu

eto!

= Correnence Sdven by Vi

[ACHION Qui rio - RNP
ACL .Ms PET

ReFL WS! 22°C1, 2h dan. 6h

le Attache. are copies of presa coverage of a co rence
fven ia Nerida on 2° Cetoden 1044 by Victor RICO Calan, ceaeribed
n reference ne a “ox sist fournolist ang CASTEO arent. In
gurma TUCO perortécly akctchee tie hippancsrertenn situation
oriefly «nd spent an hour or more revly ing stfons irem the
guclences his eternal there was North American trrerizlisn.s

Pe th will he noted thet ICC wen invited
de Removacton cult reaented. by Sournsliat
FUaL in HedPlyuem, Wee onk, that ono mifhe or mich? net ayree
with wat Hii asty buh thet he had ré. ihe
“ro de es very recent usknows ¢
Fach weak oo
ere The men y
SEACH: eeataeta nay
cls trovot,
was pric by tee
net
eo Lda
Rariany oA jevoa, Ia tn con
~ is regalle tobe Cikacehexic n J:
Rico es tek aries ta 1643,
one pesstol? Sty “ake the gs
toe Centre plans ara carried
Ache Pa we ieb as 400. a nce tre

Hi Be PES Is wc
Neont neh of Cli as well,

@ princtpal
novariceded aro
fred 8 agers
ken up wits

then Spér

i tet

SAIC SMALE AND RA-AOE

ead



other sido".

lsat reok genie

the

Ne

bein,

elacir “Comin, tou!
forvarced 6:

Stnee SsNhe

Fen®
mo

ber

tre; Pom,
Pir Basia astil t:

local Ciaclh edier,

paris ted ca tne ease
cre cn cyer Be tie

tumber Ica the Mat of the

the above, turcraation Is
retura cf the
] Sceerbere

At thet tine it is aiticipatec that be will
to the bettem cf the matter, aince he ccasiders a
bey esatact. This dis;ateh is dein; forwarded nthe
knowledge of t’.e acting chief? of tc local ODACiL, “who cone
tributed infornation to Ite

Se

Tuo ise bas nc record of

ew. Py lt KTC

Bttschrencas
3 newspaper clippin.s

Liatritutont
Qarext tte mM
tenth wfatss U1}
2esiles w/aits (1)

ae]



_ PRN 0 RRR EF get

ere! Tsct o dai Sogum Socal :

Visiéa de Hispanoaména™ 2 ST. ore

coumemrcia oF viet mca oan (Ere
SRT FE SINS te EES aT
oa amcherntngets cates, Sh cee

3 ose Totwresance soa itiesta |

nereive part
pote Lxpers

tier Litera fro 'pr coos mises wns}
Pe Viswae Rice Gaus “La peocuraine o> lecel pers ous) Lele gon ig moume e2) sded |
Fogecia’ - -prates.onaien” eetinndeden, onde fe ponte | Vasa cop ue cuca mado |
‘agien, Setibies ote piagua Wopvess. Gate-oe 8.) as fure@. kor ereereranaates |
ff pabiirg coe on raters legen ie tine sacigaaglos 9 | © mse ear!
Scr Sag probiesas se mars tg mee ae BCL elgtis na dogma
Broyeecitom Band tam vere “Luegg Ge b> sittesia exdor| —|ltar, gar la tai acon. de Hur |
pene eet? Gb i sain Gel ‘mtrve de ime condicicns rt} pansé: peers alk ete SS
0 bets ener, Bparea 6. kaseralsmo a led!

a ne | RRS Soe ai

Paveraded cxf toms, uscne Qc Uanon bovaics|

eden Prous de! Gra ie

NGevile ako eprovechzeao ia!
ingemiemeete inde aoetoe
‘Smanwores ‘se:

ea Rees teed deed
: i ro que tl ge de preeusias y ceupursizs
es Cabos 7 epee Roa Ente Imeaaliad comanicd ieoe.
+ todos a expr i fchada cerie de maticrs 6 18; aa
_Mbremeate. eed 7 ducrtts Feiad yenirae gue tates | /Seamerice te ant
“Yeioa ef iniglectual siastaaie. jpeanes ANE Sue Ur tetelee’ Cee bo cot hn 2
: fot ton picon, reoraé. que Ta: ee Or sndererm/necin, con
A batdien! muerte 7 #1 trstotque ar dipen-'; 39 RE Fredo ¢. kebuerne or Me
sada a Latooumersea cembir- 5
“gala at tena denon ae,
v iseetén Utorona, cuectifice 0! 2(o'mermo en que Fitel Cin,
Balen, gon ov le ae yeopia Troupe cet of tateleie 48]
«eae apart gar ean ica Pataten ain” Eaters
eve raga ee awl eee eree set de IN Tete tna tor Sh
thaltoro” Loca qua dean 1 AMERY 28r9 ON Progrewe re CE ay mescern
iereuante conversation te vie. paras 2 use pobre e Teter
1 amanda are orton : PME RA 1G Sc
Puen ei sonferoacizaie aAriTEs, 4 parue de ena debiaitaecn, | |. mer carota oe
Smet de Mette poten er | | pn ghee

arcera
Hed fecere mraue car Aaa *

de, Teatss dei Sav conferssetsanty, in piace etd)
Bure Social, ee ig nentiontda | lempro s rey nempre s0nte 8
linia po eody debauires el te (Stanty eye oh Vapeiisitme Ge
Bago la Politica coesinana, Gee ‘yc, nytacos Umrges comme cau
Eapdetén 50 wo nBiage 2 9° lfutaamental 7 generadare ae!
Poue wae AmErC? LAUZ8 1% tedes suvstens mats. Les pre) ot
Ss sents rneo erasionss.; jana yenuw reser.
[bor "a sepsntannided "roe que | es Rune te le Bara 9 ia
2 lnrae formuiedan, cea. ot prope!
fy fie da naar

tele do nueva :3 patie &.
taagoudia det me pe.

0

‘eu Very

se 3 Pee

mie 0S se ag pe

lee G2 aatsgre CANIS pe igens

eapponian, Reeyiiaat | “teaae #4

[per tlt ens + Gna sod ae

be . Bureaus dh provera wats > 4
fvsery Basta es duecvune prs



,

is
re



ee :
A Vert 6S

' Prbsien Ceafereceta
ded Poriodiste Victor
Rice Gults, oo ifrida

ee
| tree Pappa Maerere Carta y
7 Mara, Mintaory Radia 4!
Deed lenis 2 garw seria roe S.
Pyivassente, Get tiem, 09069 Ceres,
Di air

|

i
3
:



ORL Chee EN ECO.

OMI LID ORL THTULAR EN EK SAT RANIIRG,

Ls CASD OF MULRTE G ACCOENTE SOTIRQCEE 2

>! i
i

Corrarer

ARTE PAC eronrE GcOE MerRENDARSE CAO4 DOE

ANGE, CA LZORETA CADUCA A LOS BENE ASC

Od Fkmenve $0000

PACACORTE NEYEPO amen
CoM RE ae ratene

t
H
'
PASAPCRTE |
EDU
Vaan tNORE ~

A QUIEN ACOM MANA 8 EAPOAL

& x x x

ES

sk cw a one va!

ae ve ts exanza b



D AMSRICE Lot

AIGIA, ITAL, .PORTUGAL gor
the

fone e
HED GALES

u multaris se los pas pie dade ursten,
det ta tow frenpen wbeicvaie y loi presen aude
fp pretrae tn cane mnessin

4
+ oe MARa — Psbetueltse |

o coronlar de iene en el extronsoro,

OASERVACIONES



~~,

‘

FiLIACIONES:

X

en ae ie NY A denn FES Hy MSE mes of


teghe
te

biptkater Seana Rea
OD K. eersa.
SA OF TURISTA

Bare (eeterar a Coste Ree wee

Renae Vasa



~ ‘
. i i.
: Pre DERRY |
: ie an visas
weerO MLAS! :
CERECHES COEODOS cBercte ree |

HGTD en atte Comactate Ceneral para Anche!
PBMEE yo gure
erative por un pereco ee YO forind..|
Meno, D. a7. ‘sone oi

se
Ferme

a a
oe be Ape ots

JONNSIST TE DATION Nivea reemiay eenen as ce *



thy

wat

’ yy DP hitet oF



~—

. visas

8k cenwinlt se (F-We starereeeetenters

tjiraga

Qrene gy vhlt4o para 25

nigera. .*

Ja Aepacetoa co
Erafeo, 0,7, 2040 Jeet 4029 62>
8 : bs

ate pee wate a, a

: AGSET 963 -. --—

Meco DF,



Sinan

PERG LAS
NOC LO 64S

Caen bre)

LD tee eon



~


wood for a tingle yourney
“VN DAS
tnree monks of dace here
Af paniport. reruns val

Jamaica
ancea mantht of dare hereof
1 panspare remains wetid.



on

visas
t

PCAC)

SEEM at che Belush Eroassy
Mexco City, Consu'ar Seer'en





ore
ras :

MEnco, D- Fe
1 >


vIGas.

f~

°
VTE

Sea

PRT aa

DAA



1 EE ney

FT Wepee eave romeo, cava oF ture. [or EomuaTION

RICO GALAN, VICTOR : 2
201-33 a 201-299 1931055
SEX M DOD Hit = Parr”
e : 12 ae socgocg voccceegs 00
Srenuesnuann aA!
coe edhe : VENey edggede tant
4} co, 2222VAZATADZ 22222222

1
JP)

CAN MARXIST JOURNALIST. RE CON- 1
TACT UNTHRAOL ROA KURI, 201-299755- a

339923379293523333333
Peerr st CM CUCeeeeein
SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS |
_ BEESES FS FESEC EEE SES
DUTT AIT ITDTTTTTIT

1 4UFG HER HMY

U aeanogenes osessaage
1911 056

9599999 99959 0 98999

Eada ti aans sie

ear SOT ver

SECRET Gace



RAF; MOA-22801
FYI

Oa IE January 1964, Subject arrived Merida from Kingston,
Jamaica, by Mexicana flight 30h in transit for Mexico City.

(Source: alrlists).

Andrew ©. MEXTON

Listribution:
2-Hexi
letacy
Leik
Geab
2-Files

coos aI eTet FS

fe?



; FROM 6 ROME : : ho

!

{
i
i

tens “ay |
“JINMO «DOP, ADDP, C/C1, C/FI/O.4, C/we, C/sAS, YR

$ See ee ele Tafgacwm 17813

SECRET 1209402
DIR SDOM iNFO, MEXI CITE ROME 1921 (BERGER ACTING)

TyPAc anne :
REF a. sboM 2635( jw 08/43)
Be. DIR 29429 {ALSO RECEIVED 99494)

NO STATION TRACES SUBJ REF A.t IF LOCATION RESIDENCE CAN BE.
ESTABLISHED CAN OBTAIN OTHERWISE
CAN RUN TRACE 1F OESTRED, _ :
SECRET . : aaa

C/S COMMENT 3: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT DYVOUR ZRKNICK CABLES.

#8 RE EMILION PAULON,

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHIR THAN [HG ISSUING OFFICE 18 PRONIRITED



TOANSMITIAL
oF

TOCS INFORMATION REPORT

: France
FIC, CL/OPS, FL, FE/D, FI/INT 6, IW 1, CA 2, CA/PSH, D025, SAS Sie SRL, EB he

DCI DDCI DDP ADDP

OISSEMINATION,

(mi 12930)

¥
MADE AVAILABLE 2 ICT A
RRQUEST US ATTACHED FOR RELAY TO SINLANT.

OS INTERIAL USE ONLY |

ET OC NTINA MINE heact8 AT

;
i
|
:

Lab wicatigN 7

aeareteter ieeeecererctuctice [nian oFHCH

SECRET

i
}
H
peer
leer



,
:

i * wea
i
SECRET CENTBAL INTHLIOINCE AGENCY © RON
ae : Intelligence Information Cable

OCs 0B-3/659, 822

> COUNTRY PANAMA/ SUBA/ UCSR/MEXICO™
jee a ae

DATE OF iste. 7 FEBRUARY 196k
INFO, 28 JANUARY = 5 FEBRUARY 1954

TRAVEL AND ACTIVITIES OF THELMA KINO, PRO-CASTRO -

H :: DEPUTY TC THE PANANA NATIONAL ASSEMBLY - .
i :
"PLACE
DATEACG. PANAMA, PAN/MA SITY (6 FRBAUARY 1954) mer iw pp
TD BDB- 3/659, 196
SOURCE : : : _ “FIELD REPORT NO,
AND
APPRAISAL: LATIN AMELLAN POLITICIAN CF) Wi SENTRAL AMERICAN
REVOLUTIOART CLRTLES. THE PRIMARY PORTED

ATCURATEL: Tie KELLAPILITY

R ¢
THE SUSSOURCES JANNOT Bz DETERMINED.

i. THELMA KING, PRO-TUBAN DEPCTT To THE PANAMA HATLONAL ASSEMBLY, WAS

EDULED TO [LEAVE PANAMA O8 S FREQUARY FOR CURACAQ, PROM WHERE SME WAS 20

2

iT: TOSDR-3/S59,136, 0%

THE SOv1ET VIA CUBA. TERS OCHH

| RING MADD LEnVe POR THE SOVIET UNTON AND ROMA

K PINANGLAL ASSISTARIS FOR”

Te 1D

PANAMA FROM #05 2.)

“2,

"25 gasueny



CLASSICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET 80 FOREIGN nissmm/2WTROLIED DISSE
HO DISSEM ABROAD/BAKGROUND USE ONLY

TOC D8- 3/659, h22

cwpee Fite’

18 PROBABLY BRAYKO MILIJANOVIG, FIRST SRORETARY OP THE YOOOSLAY EYBASSY IW MEXICO AMD
IDENTIFLED TOOOSLAY INTZLLIOBNGR AGENT. MIL] SANOVIC CAME TO PAHAHA ON 23 JANUARY AND
tort FOR SAN JOSB ON 28 JANUARY. O8 27 JAMUARY, ACCORDING TO A UBUALLY RELIABLE
URCE, MRS. KINO AMD HILIJ WOVIG BAD LUNCH TOQETHER, AND DURING THE LUPCHEOH i
MILI wore HAD WARMED MRS. KINO THAT THERE WAS RRA? DANGER OF A 0.6.-CUPPORTED

‘OUP AGAINST PRESIDENT CILARL.) H
3. PROM CURACAO MPS. KIWO.WILL 00 TO MEXL20 CITY AND THEN TO HABANA, RIO QALAH
MALL ASSOMPANY HER FROM MEXIOO° TO vanana 7
L. ONS ARASOM POR THE TRIP IS TO ARRANGR A MESTING TH MKXIGO IN THE Nea FUTURE
PRTVREN AN UNIDENTIFIED EMTRSARY OF PIAEL “ASTRO AND THREE PARAMANIAN TYP? WHO
POLITICAL PIOUZPS? TARLOS IVAN ZUNIOA, FABIAN SRVERS. AMD MANUEL OUTS PALMA.
CHRADGUARTEAS COMMZNT: TDOSDR-3/657,L00, CP 6 FERNUARY, GONTAINED A STATEMENT WILOH
“UpTcaTeD THAT 2UMLAA DONTEPLATED VINCTINO MaXIOO. GOTH ZUNTAA AND REVERS: a8
PROMINENT (N THE PAKAMANIAN SOCIALIST PANTY. MANUZL SLES PaiwA IS THR MINISTER OP

SVULATION.)
s. DIssmt: STATE, AMY, HAVY, ALR, CINSEO, SIMSLANY, cINGmAPSA,

CUANSIICATION - GSILMHATION COMTRRS
TROLLED USS EMI) BSAA aD RAR USE ONL

| OD oF vamsanR
i

psec RET ny roserox

Det 20F6

pwr peeretnn

Coeeneaandso3 Co OCR BORA RN BPCRY



eo
Loos

Cater of Station, Mexico City
wo. Chief of Bese, Morice Chief, HD

weg ~—SHA@L_Of Stetion, Rename City ae

qq -Spiok_of Stathon, Santo Doainse

sree EER yob.gt Victor Bice Galan a

ACTION REQUIRED: Yor your inforaatian.
REFERENCE: UNMA-22801, 24 January 1964 —}~ —

“Subject seid et the airport in Sento Lomingo
on departure that he sould travel to Waal, However,
he was menifested to Kingston, end por XNGS LOf7,
travoled thera end departed on Mexicenn fight
to Mexico, FAVE did not have eny inforuation on
Nis-arrivel thore, por RAVE 0874. (NOT! Neither
KNGS 1097 erted 23 Jenuary nor ¥A 7
22 Jonusry vere sent to Penama or Meride.)

a

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
2= ferrre City

epan werEaanece 1 f Piracem Praem D MeOTe

AUCA 2845

Everette



(EL ESSIEEO MES:
eyis
whit p- FUZETORPR 7 wots fe S1E-6.8

i : mets
cal

Pare bi 1966 ont IN CS BILL HO,
i ROME SANTO DOMINGO MEXICO CITE

ei

sOM1 DIRECTOR : en Ny a
cont, C/WH S ee

iro, **COF, ADOP, C/CI, C/FI/0 %, C/SAS, VR *

wo "ROME" 2 SDOM NEXT CHE bik

99494
REF SDOM 2659 (BzIHG RELAYED ROME) Cir! O% ~»,
DYVOUR ZRKNTCK

REQUEST TRACES SUBJECT REF. FYL SUBJECT OBSERVED TRAVELING
WITH IDEN WHO IDUNTIP71ZO CUBAN AGENT WORKING WITH LATIN AMERICAN
CASTROLST SUBVERSIVZ, INTEL AND INSURGENT CROUPS,

END OF NESSAGE

: rc
WH COMMENT: SDC traces on Emilio Paulon. ie ROUT

el
C/S COMENT: S#DISSEMINATIC AFPLICASLE To SYeAT DYvOUR hes AGH AMBLES.

chonf
aR/DO/A

Tk aa ae :



4
By
t

cae a cl 4
wer | ATE7DREPR OT nex [2 8.

Ot, 4826 1) MO INDEX
DAI PRB 1964 OFM IN Co Fit

To! + ROME BANTO DOMINGO MEXICO CITY
From DIRECTOR

“SFeos 2) O72

ci SHGCEM
POUTINE
INFO t soce, acer, C/cl, C/Fi/o 4, C/SAS, VR

‘de ROME : wo gpgM MEXI CITE OR 9 9 495 :

nev FOGG ¥

DYVOUR ZRENICK

IDENTITY VICTOR RICO GALAN

END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMENT: POISSEMINATION APPLICAULE TO RYBAT DYVOUR ZRKNICK CABLES,

a %
oe a

WH/PO/A
i wH/3
SAS/CI
HesA/cs,

/ ena RA es ae AE

+-SeBaCoRo Se:
atexcoucnien ay Of mente edn



VELICO CITY
i 8

ose, cor, soz &, co 2, ca/eca, ca/enor, ca/o by
cr, cr/omsy es/ic 2, cifos, ri, rsfo, rifinty iy
sn't, as 8, ac/es (ec0.) 2, 00/1-(€200),

av/ne (¢.0.), veo

act:
Mo

°
Pp

SECRET 29¢g192 :
DIR INFO WAVE PACY LANT cir (ext 976 /
INTEL oo
REF MEX! 7898 (16 22243)

MEX! 7738 (iM 97445)
SUPLATA SOURCE LIENvSY FROM TELCO BETWEEN RICO GALAN AND MARIA

Y

DEL CARMEN MARGUEZ, S¥PLOYEO AT MLN HEADQUARTERS, MEXICO CITY, a
¢ TRAVEL CONFIRMED & LIF IRE WHO FURNISHED \NFO RE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS
° erieo 2985 18z

f REPS2T CLASS SECREY 192 FOREICN 61330M Ger 8366 EKICO CUBA

Z

“UB TRAVEL T9 OF vICTO® RICO GALAN DOI 27 AND 28 JAN 6% PADA

rf

POITNON BY a



BIT fay ogy
FROK
ACTER

nee:

PAGE 2. IN 97724 ae

SCURCE PERSON (8) WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS IN THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO

Te coment
ross

PRECEDENCE

x


CUNTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY oH : ae i ToCs
DATE OR on Pee Gana str,
INFO. Ee ‘|

praca : ;
DATE ACO, a Guage eee nie ner nN STTZ4
oe ee eee ace ae FIELD REPORT NO,

PPRAISALL ee : oe
pee gat Q01-3360474 | :
Victor fie gn weld :

“1, .VICTOR RICO GALAN, MEXICAN MARXIST JOURNALIST,, LEFT MEXICO

0. “CITY FOR HABANA,CUBA, BY AIR ON 28 JAN 64, HE CARRIED MEXICAN

P! PASSPORT NO 56341 AND HAD A CUBAN COURTESY VISA, RICO'S TRAVL
DOCUMENTS SHOWED THAT HE WAS PLANNING TO STAY AT THE HOTEL RIVIERA

fl iN HABANA, ,

| 2, FIELO COMMENT, IT 1S PRESUMED THAT RICO GALAN WILL INTERVIEW

iE FIDEL CASTRO RUZ, PRIME MINISTER OF CUBA, ABOUT HIS RECENT

® VISIT TO THE USSR, IT ALREADY HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT RICO CONFERRED

: WITH CASTRO iN LATE MAY AND EARLY JUNE 1963 UPON CASTRO'S RETURN

© FROM HiS PREVIOUS TRIP TO THE SOVIET UNION, IT HAS ALSO BEEN

Y

c:
co]
Pp
¥
R
i

c
is}
Pe
Y

Shy maser eeouame tafarmaticn etwting Ws Maioaal Defense of Abo Unites Binion eitain ine eonaning of toe Bapieangs Lace. Te
UTE aca te) and Tha tes nav awe ef forustina ef WRieh ia 807 oease? %G a unowinenend paren © premibited o7 Bw.
SECRET : et
S$ ears
=

AIATtINe GA nmeNAceh DUT Ae CS SECOEF NAA MIC AID USA OGL OME CC OR GO”

20} BIEYT. i

1 corr



CLASSIFICATION = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

: SECRET .

2 Pee for

REPORTED THAT RICO IS AN AGENT OF CASTRO AND HAD BEEN: ASSIGNED
BY CASTRO TO VISIT VARIOUS LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES TO CONFER —
WITH COMMUNIST AND LEFTIST LEADERS FOR THE purpose oF, INLTIATING
FROGRAMS OF ANTS-UNITEO- STATES VIOLENCE AND SABOTAGE 2. AMONG , —4

_ LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES VISITED BY RICO GALAN BETWEEN OCTOBER AND
DECEMBER 1963 WERE VENEZUELA, COSTA RICA, NICARAGUA, GUATEMALA, _-- 2
BRAZIL, AND PANAMA, RICO GALAN VISITEO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIE- FROM, ¢ ae

8 TO 15 JAN 6%),
eee
3. FIELD DISSEM STATE FBI ARMY NAVY AIR 1&NS CINCSO CINCLANT = C,

ENO OF M

aes CLASSICATION « DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET : G

wro ee ee

KGANUALION OF TOCS NFCA ANON HCROR

SRST ESTO see Tre errr eer


see. Clin EFS

FROM ¢ MEXICO CITY.

: facnons £fsns tu

| ~~" ad
YSECRE T 2901132

IR INFO YAVE SDOM KNGS
YPIC TAXNICK :
EF KNGS —

|e + Oop, Aco, C/ch, ¢frifo 4, CAmt; va

sas-3"
oes

Jerre (next 7978 >, ”
eeaeeneee

29 n6ti07 7 2E



‘espetn #08 ete

Chief of Station, Daninican Republic 7/7. i
‘ ronan sm

--- Galak of Base, Merida “
we Gilet, Vostara Hertephoro pivisten  4/A/E™ pheweret

REFERENCES: WEXE 7890, EXT 7733, KEXE 7695, SDOM 2626
SDOM 2622, SOOM 2619, Glone of which were sent to Movida)

i : :
i 1, MAXI 7695 (DOT 7 January 1964) roported that Vietor Rico Galan, Hexfcan
H Marxist Journaliet and agent of #idel Cagtro fur, Peimn Mintster ofCuba, was

woking preparations to go to the Daatnican Republic. bOI 2610 reported ‘that
Victor Rico arrived in the Dominican Kupublic frou Kingston, Jamaica, on 8 Janu=
: ary 1964 abcam! Pan Amerfean £1ight 431.

: 2, SION 2619 reported that Vietor Rico left the Duminican Republic for

1 Hexico via tleai on 15 January eboard fen Acerican flight 432. sDie 2622
teported that Victor Rico left ths Dowinican Rapublie for Kingston on 15 January
1964 by Pan dmorican alrlines. Station Hexico City doos not have the airlist
4n question. in arder to Loep an securate gecord of Rico Calan‘a travel,
Station Moxico City requests Station Santo Dosingy and the Herida Rage if
possible to fuentes apecizic and eceurate Aufermation on Rico's return trip
Stee ae Douinican Republic to Kexico. vn + Gir pect

Vip

( ay For the aformation of Merida Kase, Rico Caien, a wombor of the
prdvigaada cosmlttes of the sovimiente de idberacion Nactonul (HL = Kattongl
Liberation overeat), pro-Cubs, antieUnited Etates Contundet front, and a
writer fot Siqaore, Homican leftiet wayariae, vieited tanma, Guatesala,

i Miestagua, Costa Wiea, Venezuela, and Braet! betreon mld~Cetober and mide

‘ Beccrber 1963. According to a mebor.of earlier reports furnislad by usually
H Falloblé asurces in Hextco, Mansa, ond other Latin éverican stations, Rico
Galon spent etght days in Cuba during late Nay aad aarly June 1963 intervie
ing Castvo on ehe latter's stay 1s the USSE, During thie perded, Rico Galan
was’ given an agsignant to visit comtrios {a Central and South Anertca whore
ho waa to confer with Corminint leaders aud tnatruct then to pesin tomediate

: acto of sabvtage and violcace to take the pressure off Vanedueta. le was also
: dastructed to permy ia competing leftist factiona jn tha camtries visited to
waite 90 that their verk vould have greater tpact. fa all of tie comtriea ho
Viaited, Rico Gslan conferred with leading Comumiste and lofeicte. Rico
Galaa'a trip to the Deninican Republic wea eatensibly tv collect miterial for
acvapapar articles. According to SDU1 2624 during hls visit there, Flco Calan
attempted Co get photographa of Desinican guorrilla lesdera killed at Las

i
i
t

CRON EEE



CONTINUATION UF
DISPATCH

Mansclae ca 21 Beomter 1963, for propanenda purrocgs, NEXT 7990 reported
thet Rico Galan eos pisantug to dly to Cube tras ‘aaleo by 2) Jemmzy 1964,
Station presuzes that Fico Calan'o purposa in poiug to.Cuba to to confer
agein with Caatro upca the Lottes'’s retura to C fret Ale prosaat vdedt
te the Boviet Union, ax! gecolvo further instructions fren Cosimo ge feture
@atieUnited States exta of sabotage and violence in Latin dmcrica, Tos lecal
peeso of 24 January rayorted thet Castre retuned to Cuba froa the USS on
According ta BBP 640, Rico Gslan hus bean keewn to usa the nose
CigpasKrce ace Pounwn ost

ae eae a I Ln
AliaT we bse CASIZS LUE
OS

Luis _wone 2s Av ky por VierR

me

Aico GAN Pel. Z3 7 TY
ee



cn
1 A

,
eae CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

sot (Jie C260,
NNO EO oe

temo [] sp Mee toR sts
Lal MEXICO CITY
ACTION IW _

INFO por, ADDR, 0005, cA 2, ca/pca, ca/proP, ci/oPs,
cific 2, tty Fifo, ri/int J, WH 13, 209 12, H/1,
aofcr 2, ad/nty vr

ros ~3/570, 926
BI5IZ IN 93843

Gre RC T eaap37e 23 yAN 6%
INFO SUOM WAVE PACY LANT CITE(MExI 7899

MEXE 7738 (IN 97485)
S00m 2626 (IN $9755)
MEXL 7695 (IN 95245)

ie
SLOM 2622 (IN S019) @

© ISUPDATA SOURCE LIENVOY FROM TELCON atTwE i
GOA, AIRLISTS SHOWING RETURN GF RICO TO MEX}iCO FROM SOOM HOT e
PAVAIL. NO INDEX FILED 2229372 ¥

ZOJECTED TRAVEL TO CUBA OF VICTOR ATCOTGATAN DOI ZI wAN GY PADA
XICO CITY 22 JAN 6; APR 2 SOURCE PERSON (&} WITH GOOD
NS_IN THE CUBAN EMcASSY IN MEX Pe f- 3 3b

| 23 carcaes Cli 73 L pases i

T Hla era POSE eee sae

von or oR SES LEER rascmn0y



SECRET: wane] CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY:
bind The Intelligence Information Cable

e

COUNTRY Hcx1c0"/ cuba : OCs -3/570,926
: DATE OR ° 2t-aanuaRY 1964 . piste, 23 vanuary 1964
INFO,

NO FOREIGN DIS
ROUTINE *

icaeutaet ie

<?7OM -x»

R PROJCCTED TRAVEL TO CUDA OF VICTOR RICO GALAN

’

Gece

QATEACQ, HExLCO, extco city (22 vanuany 1964) _— REE IN 93843

shuace : FIELD REPORT NO, H4H=8339
AD E

PRAISAL, PLFSON (8) WITH GOOD CONTACTS IN THC CUBAN EMOASSY IN MEXICO CITY.
LEPUALSAL; 26

Rk 1. ON 21 JAN VICTOR RICO CALAN, MEXICAN MARXIST JOURNALIST,
i ? ‘

c ASKED JOSE MIGUEL FERNANDEZ ROA, THIRD SECRETARY AND PRESS ATTACHE
9 oF THE CUGAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO WHAT THE FIRST AVAIL FLIGHT TO CUBA

Y

CUSA ON 23 YAN, HUT INDICATED HE MIGHT GO ON THE FLT OF 27 JAN,
2. FIELD COMMENT, EARLICR REPOPTS FROM A NUMBER OF USUALLY

RICO GALAN SPENT EIGHT DAYS IN CUBA INTERVIEWING CASTRO ON

Of —> RESIS BERER

THE LATTER'S VISIT TO THE USSR, Gi THIS OCCASION CASTRO ORDERED

© RPT QM LEIAT VABAQUS. GENTE Maadd UlerS IMT He AERIS Oth OUNTRAEP nd BOaoags tee, nue

12, UBC. Gece, TOU and 7H, the Lransmissica oF revelation of whieh In any Mennre to eo UnaUIhorleed pereca t# prohibited ny lew.

ECRET HO FOREIGH DISSEH

Hr/miR DIA ARMY/ACSL NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF. NSA NIC AID USA. LL ONE OCR ORR 00”
Teas

ton

a Copy BEBE EE

WOULD GE. FERNANDEZ SAID ON 24 JAN, RICO SAID Hf HAD WANTED TO GO TO

RELIASLE SOURCES HAVE IDENTIFIED RICO GALAN AS AN AGENT OF FIDEL
CASTRO RUZ, PRIME MINISTER OF CUGA, IN LATE MAY AND EARLY JUNE 1963

_2

[rmscties ome]

ce |

LENS FBI


CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET i FRc ten

en Filed te) ee
INSTRUCT LEADING COMMUNISTS THERE TO INITIATE PROGRAMS OF : :
ANTI-UNITED STATES VIOLENCE AND SABOTAGE. SCTWEEN OCTOBER AND

DECEMBER 1963: RICO VISITED VENEZUELA, COSTA RICA, NICARAGUA, ;

GUATEMALA, ZPAZIL, ANO PANAMA AND CONFERRED WITH COPMUNIST LEADERS

IN FACH OF THESE COUNTRIES. ON 8 JAN 1964 RICO WENT TO THE
OOMINICAN PEPUELIC FROM MEXICO, DURING HIS VISIT THERE, RICO ATTEMPTCO
TO GET PHOTOGRAPHS OF DOMINICAN GUERRILLA LEADERS KILLED AT LAS

VANACLAS GN 21 DEC 1963, FOR PROPAGANDA PURPOSES. ACCCORNING TO
RICO WAS

A USUALLY RELIASLE SOURCE IN THE
SCHEDULED TO RETURN TO MEXICO FROM THE DOMINICAN REPUSLIC BY AIR

OM 15 JAN},
3+ FILLS COMMENT. IT 1S PRESUMEO THAT RICO GALAN 15 GOING TO CUBA

TO AGAIN CONFER WITH CASTRO UPON THE LATTER'S RETURN FROM HIS

PRCSENT TRIP TO THE USSR, THE EXACT DATE OF CASTRO'S RETURN

_10 CUGA FPO THE USSR 1S NGT KNOWN, HOWEVER, ACCORDING TO THE
LOCAL PRESS OF 22 JAN, CASTRO LEFT MOSCOW FOR KIEV FOR A FOUR
CAY VISIT, THENCE RETURNING TO MOSCOW, IT 1S PRESUMED THAT CASTRO

WILL THEN FETUPN TO TIACANA,

Y, FIELG OLSSEM STATE FET ARMY NAVY AIR 1465 CINCSO CINCLANT.

ENO OF MESSAGE

n
a CLASSIFICATION ~ DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

SECRET : id FOREIGR DISSE

me 2096 ase Mra os Tee

ae ee

& MNUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION REPC


ory

+ PRECTOR

SCHON,

wo

KINGSTON

x
C/sas § “ :
; naar
: O

bop, aor, c/cl, C/Fi/d 4, Chm, wR

SECRET 2208392 i i 22dn61ni03663

BIg INFO MEXT SDOM WAVE CITE KNGS 1097

Ps (PIC ZRKNICK :
WAVE 0874 (NOT SENT Y ( In> O30S494

VICTOR RICO CALAN ARRIVED KNGS FROM SDOM 15 st wee
ON PAA SLIGHT 432. KE CONTINUED SAME DATE TO MEXY ON > MEXT

FLIGHT 334. WHEN CHECKING IN FOR LATTER FLIGHT AISLINE
PERSONNEL NOTICED HE ACCOMPANIED BY FOLLOWING WKO TOOK SAME
FLIGHT AND WITH WHOM HE APPRARED TO BE TRAVELING, AS IN A CROUP:
«SEE ([Jes7 NOY SENT Sodom NEXT)
SI, MEXICAN NATIONAL.

As Be HOBUYUKE MK

3. AOALBERT COR

C. EMILIO PAULON, TYALIAN NATIONAL wHo ALSO HAD ARRIVED }

O11 ON PAA 432 VITH RICO.

“CRE y+
‘is “SECRET Vigeecal

BEPROOLTT:ON 3Y Tine RAN THE USSG CANCE 1S P20"



i;
i
i :
tos bIRECTOR
FROM + SMWAVE a

“action, ¢/Sas 5
INFO. 4 OOP, ADP, C/cl, C/Fi/o vR

SECRET 2121242

0 Noa ME! NGS S04 CITE wave 2574 soltricttd 7
ae: RSS aiaeinie 2) Jerei63058
- vY?PIC ZAKMICK : soe

t 79172)

: REPS oA. SD0% 2619 (HOT SANT

WAVE ANTA VIQ Ps
OF ONURIE ATR

ase Y

C/S COMMEN
ACTIVITIES.

AREQUESTED ACSISTANCE IN DISCREET COVE DASE

WR RICO GALAN)



10 F HACHOR 2

FROM + SANTO DOMINGO

acrions ches :

INFO 4 DOP, ADP, C/Cl, C/FI/O 4, C/SAS, VR : .

SECR = T 2919002 5 fe
i CITE SOON 2534

20 fatind 209%

4

\ THAT VicTOR P16d

FTIST &UG SELLEVE

ACTIVITY. Pots

LED St NG 1

cars Toe

S agg VAL

“4 SaLlO CONREP Vist

4H ODEPART

PONG ite

—————~


| , eo
___ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE [= secret | eT (PAGEL 2
RELATIONS OFFICE AS WOULD BE NORMAL.

4. GODR DIG NOT MOLEST RICO, HE HAD FIVE DaY VISA
WHICH OVERSTAYZD FEW HOURS BUT MADE NO REQUEST FOR EXTENSION,

“

WHICH 'GODR PREPARED DENY HAD HE REGUESTED IT. TO DATE aut
INDICATIONS ARE INFO HIS PRESENCE HERE HANDLED DIScREETLY:

BY GODR. : : :
3. NO INDEX, : ‘
SECRET : ae ce i

C/S COMMENT: “INTEL REPORT RE VICTOR RICO ATTEMPT TO PHOTOGRAPH DOMINICAN
GUERRILLAS KILLED AT LAS MANACLAS.



pul
a
io}
z

Ora, SSuSanSGHaURERSDSGHEESTE
wnt: WR/6/DR Nene SECRET. |

+ BT 18523 NO INDEY
| DATE: 30° JaN_1966. MUEUN CS KE NO.

To 1 KINGSTON SMBAVE MEXICO CITY. ..

" gkoMy DIRECTOR
cons, 2/1 HS

be: ee 2

a pmo BOE Ces, 2 iF yeu AE

= INFO: - CITE DIR
Kes : WAVE MEXT 95773

poe ice. : iste aa -

REF? A, SOCH 2622 (IN 00010)
“BR, Y0ES~3/569,940 (BEING RELAYED KNGS)

G. PIR 94953 (HEING RELAYED KNGS)

2658 CON 00755)
RAND © CONTAIN BACKGROUND ON VICTOR RICO GALAN,

AND INSTRUCTIONS ALSO APPLY JAMAICA VIEW PRE!
LES,

TES DUCGUORAY AND OTHER DOMINICAN
STENTS REF B TQ RUABBS WITH RERARKS

TANCE, REQUEST ASSISTANC!

COVERAGE SUBJECT!S ACTIVITIES, NOTE SUBJECT ALSO

2P FOR MIAMI LS JANUARY, HOWEVER HE HAS
JANUARY) AND LIRELY
ALREADY HAVE

DEPAKSi 1

Ariean ea Ores



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
fue, Pema a Uae seen
olde panna
on: Mugg 7oR fi a 60a or
A 20 dA 1964 Et ENO.

tro +

Facts DIRECTOR
orrenneo

RO

CONF:
: Pack TWO
InKO +

bd le eee cron QOT FS

Wi CGSZNT: Kefs A, &, and C contain information on Victor
RICO Gelan and his travel to Dem Rep and advise
SMM concerning the handling of thia matter with
lisise:.. Kef D raports RICO'sa approach to a news
photographer in Oom Rep to get photos of bodies
of gueztilla leaders (espselally M. TAVARES Justo),

aeaeatens



ao Ops ort oa : :

HOS TO Mae
HARD Pat NO

ACTION: wi 8

Fi/iNT, IW, SAS 8, OO/1, AD/C1 2, AD/NE,

INFO 4 ODP, ADOP, CA 2, CA/PEG, Ca/pROP, CA/o Mach cifops, ci/ic 2, fl, Fi/o, |
|

‘pyvour —
|

{REF SDOM 2sio(i4

Git :

to" s pinectoa : aT Ee
FROM 6 MEXICO CITY : S ee :
i ‘ : : z
1
c
fo}
Pp
id
Fl

STATION HAS LOOK OUT CARD ON SUBJECT OF REF ON FILE WITH

Rg
UJ
¢c
Fe)
P
yt :
isk RET 1700482 :
_ ff [soon awro ora vave cirgvent 1818) inasan09 177) :
R
1

i
i
tT
[APPROPRIATE SECTION OF HEFINCH. SUBJ HAS NEVER APPLIED FOR ENTRY 4
© fit i
© | YOU.S. THROUGH HBFINCH NOR HAVE THEY REGD ANY QUERY CONCERNING ra
P ial orn * s
Y {SUBJECTS REQUEST FOR ENTRY, NO INDEX, . | Py
: . “
i Is ECRET- : : |
| i i
i \ : ' i
i C/S COMENT: *VICTCR RICO GALAN, MEXICAH NARKIST JOURNALIST, LEFT :
SOOM FOR MIAME OH 15-dAN 64 VIA PANAM 432, : i
Hi
¢
°
Lad
Y

OFNCE 1S PROMEITED

BEPTNNU NOM BY OTHER THAN THE 1551

EEE] © con SSRN SAEED EEE «con g

Ygae



ae fe 1 _ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

canst

i SECRET
> <
YO: “DIRECTOR a MICROFILMED
PROM SANTO 2. MAN 2b Iy9q

ACTION iw oe MICRO, 7
INFOS ste sop 6, p003, ca 2, ca/Pca, ca/grory

cific Zp ci/eay tay Fefoy rafinr’ be
an 8, vo/t, aofcr 2, vr.

17 JAN 26362 64 IN. $8755
PRIORITY OIR MEXI INFO Wh eae cnnt KNGS CITE 60 4 2626) L3f

INTEL
SUPDATA STATION OFFICER FROi4 RAMON LORA

PINAL, A PHOTOGRAPHER
FOR LISTIN DIARIO WHO TOCK THE PHOTOGS: PHS, ViCTOR RICO

RCUGH & MMA TAVAREZ,

GALAN WAS PUT IN TGUCH WITH LORA ¥

WHO HAD UEEN IN LAS MANACLAS WN LORA TOOK THE PHOTOGRAPHS, R
1
FILEO 1719872 REPORT CLASS ZECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM 2
(COUNTRY ) DOMINICAN MELIC SUBJ ATTEMPT BY VICTOR RICO i
Y

JGUSNALIST, TO GET PHOTOGRAPHS OF
8 he KILLED AT LAS MANACLAS 001 1g JANUARY
AN TO OCMINGO (16 JARUARY 1564)

tr) WITH CONTACTS AMONG
CA_CATORCE DE Junio Lyles FE

GALAN, MEXICAN

DOMINICAN GUC!

196 PADA ince
APPR 2CHOS
Memeens OP Tr

a COMMENT:

NO BEPARATY CADLE DISTRIGUTIO!
16 BEING MADE 4¥ THIS TOSS



wo xe Ose

@ ROUTINE

LECRE Tord CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TOCS -3/570, 355

} COUNTRY == boMINICAN REPUBLIC
pista, 18 vanuary 1964

| DATE OR 10 vanuary 1964
INFO.

‘sussect
ATTCHPT BY AICO GALAN, MEXICAN MARXIST
JOURNALIST, TO GCT PHOTORKAPHS OF OOitW
HHICAN GUERRILLAS KILLCO AT LAS MANACLAS

c

Cruces

yDATEACQ, santo votiwco (16 vanuany 196!) REF IN 99755

FIELD REPORT NO.

g
; '
c
°
P
¥
‘hbource 2
AND
1 BHAPpRaIsALs
i :

1
R
' ON 19 yANUARY 6h,
ASKED

T

MARXIST JOURMALIS

OF MANUEL

AGRUPAC IOM POLITICA CATE

JUNC POLITICAL

|

OF THE GULRRILLAS

1963. com g
ie
CENTRAL ANO SOUTH AMERICA HAS BEEN THE LuBJECT OF R
1
PREYIOUS REPORIS, ARRIVED IN THE Oued
¢
& GANUARY GH A ty ro)
e
,

‘This material contains Information adectlug the Hastonal Defence of tne Caised Atala Siuin we olenning of the Eapwoaage tase Tale
18, UDC ees, 799 and 194, the Lranemicaing: oF reeeiation of which ta any mance! 15 an UbeUthorled petcua 18 proninited vy ta}

ASECRET '

STATIN OIA ARMY/ACSH NAVY Ale C3 SECIS.

B< 000 -= BRIER Rime <> on

Me MD LMA OC! OME och ar G0"



CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
peed es]

(men Pied ta)

TOCS -3/570, 355

JAMAICA VIA PAN AMERICAN, TAVAREZ WAS KILLEO BY

THE DOMINICAN ARMED FORCES ON 21 DECEMBER 63, NO ONE
HAS YET BEEN NAMED TO REPLACE HIM), EMMA TAVAREZ,
HOWEVER, WAS UNABLE TO GET THEM FOR HIM,. RICO ALSO

REQUESTED THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF RAFAEL HERRERA, DIRECTOR
OF LISTIN DIARIO, BUT HERRERA REFUSED TO RELEASE THEM,

COMMENT, THE PHOTOGRAPHS HAD BEEN TAKEN AS

THE BODIES WERE REMOVED FROM A COMMON GRAVE, WhERE
4S

THEY HAD BEEN STACKED CROSSWISE, ALL THE ViCT
HAD GEEN SHOT THROUGH THE HEAD, THE BACK GF TAVAREZt
HEAD HAD BEEN TORN AWAY BY GUNFIRE, Hi HAD ALSO
SUFFERED A KNIFE OR BAYONET WOUND IN THE STOMACH,

R APPEARED IN THE PRESS,

THE PICTURES, WHICH HAVE NE’
ARE SEING HELO IN THE ARCHIVES OF LISTIN DIAZIO,)

eq JOiSSEM, STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CiNCESO CINILANT.

SECRET

CLASSIC ATION — DISSEMINATION CONTRAS
2 anes essed !

SECRET -

er ot posers



: CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Heiss
Tiifisae> tele S-E-0- EP
$90 -

Gide oe

1O + FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN7Z3TIOATION

frrom QRS CENTRAL INPELLIORICE ACE i
cor wH & : c
ono. Ch, ci/ors, FI, 12 7
v. ~ Y
to be wo cmeor ao U

2. RPauails IS IK5E FO 4.15 AGENCY'S TOCS-3/569,9L0 DISTRIBUTED ON
; CASUARY 196b, SUBJZC7; TRAVEL OF VICTCR RICO UALAN, PEXICAN MARXIST JOURMALIC?,

ing

£3 1 5 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

2. SIRCUUATICN AS 2224 RECEIVED FRO A TAT

Kvoo —2»
~<woo =m

VICTOR RICO GALAN LeF? SIPPC DOMINGO FUR }OANZ, FLORIDA, ON 15 JANUARY 196b 00

SAM A-ERICAN [LIGHT 32.

3. G3 INFORMATACN £3 S2i'G MADE AVAILABL® TO THE LT

HATE LTS.

SECM SERVIC2.

OK

ERD OF Hes

BASED Ch SINM2619 (29 99272), ly vit 196L.

~voOO =e
xvOO aw

SATE ROMAN
CI/LIA

etseagina ovnrgee

+, BERRQDUCTICM: ar



INFO + op, ci, C1/oPS, CI/IC 2, FI, RI/AN, SAS 8, VR

’ Se tae
: SECRET 1616382
EXI DIR INFO WAVE CITE SDOM 2622 16 dusin0001o

REF: soon 2619( I qq 172 ye
1. VICTOR RICO, MEICAN, LEFT SDOM FOR KNGS ON 15 JAN 64

VIA BANA. (SOURCE? AIRLISTS)
2." INDEX. saat
“SECRET : j

2 - - -

C/3 COMMENT: “VICTOR RICO GALAN LEFT SD0M FOR MIAME ON 15 JAIL,

[_ secret]

REPROOANTION @Y Oink DAN TE 1RRG OTICE 15 FBT



Ve 1 SANTO DOMINGO
; om: DIRECTOR
|e ee
into, ODP, ADOP, C/c1, C/FI/O 4, C/sas, VR
10 POM WO MEXT» WAVE cor 94953

ost rnirce :
REFS: A, SbOM 2619 (IN 99172)
8. DIR 79062 (BEING RELAYED SNOM WAVE)
€. TVCS 3/563,671 (BEING RELAYED SDOM WAVE)

REPS BAND C GIVE BACKGROUND TO VICTOR RICO GALAN,
SIMILAR TO THAT DESCRIBED IN

‘ i,
PURPOSE TN DOMREP PRESUMABLY
LATTER REFS ANI PROPABLY PELATES SPLCIPICALLY TO APCI

OSTPARLE MAINTALH CODR INTEREST IN SUBJECT VIEW

2,
PROBABLE SIGNIFICANCE HIS ACTIVITIES IN DR AND POSSIBILITY

AGATN. HCHEVER, OWING SENSITIVITY THIS

uk MAY GO Tr
STATION SHOULD PASS NO FURTHER INFO REYOND..CONTENTS

MATTER,
NEXT 7738, DRAVIG ATTENTION SUBJECT'S PROBABLE CONNECTION WITH

APCS PHSURGENCY,

TNPORM HOS RETAILS PASSAGE AND UANDLING BY

THER GODR CFPICTALS INVOLVED, ALSO

Y FURTHER DETAILS STATION ABLE ACQUIRE CONCERNING
ANY ACTIVITIES, CONTACTS IN OR,

FOTOS TTT

CONTINUED

“| vorgygrgarnn

Fe EY.

pretenses ereazee

Ceo ®

A


weg

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

unin 1 INOrK $ RE :
bh ro worxt—SECRET
bare Be ae es PLE NO

wo ' INFO i icuslen WISZ |

: 4. FOR WAVE: REQUEST EMPLOY LOCAL OFFICIAL ODYOKR ;
LIAISONS FOR COVERAGE SUBJECT'S ACTIVITIES YOUR AREA, :

END OP MESSAGE

‘

WH COMMENT: 8A, etaaae departed DomRep-for Miami IS January

t 1963.

} Be Informed certain field stations of subject's
iminerary and mission and specified types
coverage required.

C, Gave details Subject's Castro connections
and above pission,

SAS/CI (in draft)
NH/POJA {in draft)
nays (in draft)
7 7
: aware a
Cc. RING '
Cf areca ee C/N/6

Besragine crne aa agtecereariag *
corncne

ceor Ne, ‘



| PROM SANTO CoMINO : aera ee

acnon, WH 8

oor, 2 A 's 4 »
ied Fi, "Fi/o, Aer S00 ee Se aes 2, Sainte erfte 2,
320K eT 1516452 ae ; iy .
‘i899 1 72

wae MEXT WFO WAVE ClTe SON 2619.0
wis BOOK 24a € NOT SZNT VAVED
HEXI 7738 ¢ NOT SENT oe

Jo VICTOR RICO GALAN, MEXICAN MARXIST JOUAZALISE,

LEFT SDUA FOR MIAMI O8 15 JAS 64 VIA Paiihit 432.

(OUNCES nine eee ESSE * HO FUATHed LPO

AYALLASLES : .
2. LADEX.

SECRET ae ee .

C/S COMMENT: ° APPARENTLY WRONG REFERENCE. POSSIBLY SOOM 2610 (IN 97187)
INTENDED. i . : ae
©*INTEL RPT RE TRAVEL OF ‘VICTOR RICO GALAN TO DOMIMECAN’ REPUBLIC. a

t

© ce
SECRET | FE]

i
| i‘ BzPROOUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIGTED Copy No



™ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

| PRG 8 SANTO DOMINGO:

sosfe mets

| PCO TEI, cifors, FL, RI/ay, RO !

SECRET 1312002 Beit siesta id
WEXI-INFO DIR CITE SDOM 2610 | eee gees ae

it -REFL spon 2606 (~~ PGCE)
iy “VICTOR RICO, MEXICAN, = oe
"ofes ook yoentical subscey oe

REF, ARRIVED SDOM PANAN 431 FROM KINGSTON 8 JAN (SOURRRY
(ian NANIFEST.

2. INDEX: : : a

SECRET i ae

Cremmeemnm cteame - are stmern tm
’

8 i ry oa
eee SECRET a eee
BSPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIEEID a '


_GUSSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

: hotter 379

1 BECKET sssesiz

| 00H SNFO DIR CITE HEKs 7738

REF REKY 7695 We) RRS) ee

JH VIEY TAPORTANGE PRESENT SITUATION Pac’, PERMISSION GRANTED
i PASS INFO CONTAINED 1% REF AS REQUESTED BY Spon 2636, x
BEERET

i
)

H €5 COMMENT: O1M 96608

OOINTEL RPT RE PROJECTED TRAVEL ue hence RICO GALAN 70 DOMINICAN
POPUDLIC. :

BEPAOOUCTION OY Onaa TRAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1. PROMOTED : Copy No.



foodeeal © cadet © fe: Jeesnscpesssnnseane
asi tO te HO eZ he

ee z
TAO LD beg Kbit Chat 6.€

_ FROM MEXICO CITY

scrim, — Sir 8

IPO: Dor, avor, ca 2, ca/ece, ca/rror, ci/ors, cific 2,
Fi, Pio, es/inty iW, a3 8, 00/1, a0/cr 2, ao0/ne,
va,

ee
OS E CRE T 1319392

te
YSOOM INO DIR PACY CITE(MEXI 7738

Xt 7695(1N 95254)
‘7: spo 2610(1N 97187)

LCONS

| huruATA SOURCE LICNVOY. FROM TF
i “SS \ ant pet
Rriso + WIFE'S NAMC(UNKNOWN.. VAVATLAL

cor SUBJECT, ACCORONGELZrZu34y, RICO
On ame ARMANDO CONTE, SOOM HAS PERMISSION

I

nines CA clasairied ance

SECRET

13 JANUARY 2562 64

PASS INFO 1s.LOW TO HIGH

Pineo ve
AC Onan!

pik 2

GALAN HAS BECM KNOW! TO USE

SOGM ASKED, IF POT5ie

CTE EN WIFE OF RICO GALAN AND

CAIRLISTS DO i101 SHOW TRAVEL

VICTOR RICO REPORTED SOOM 2616;

LE, TO

2 ATTACHES

HAS BUTI
HCY PENIS
BY THE + i10N UNE,

“ROUTING LILTIAL

=»

a
fe}
Pp
Y



a

REPUGLIC. SUBJECT TRAVEL OF VICTOR RICO GALAN TO DOMINICAN REFUBLIC
DO: 1f YAN 64 PADA. MEXICO, MEXICO CITY 13 JAN 64 APR 2 SOURCE

SONS (BY IN CLOSE CONTACT WITH FAMILY OF VICTOR RICO GALAN

2W COMMERT:

ia |
+ Tocs e
+ PRECEDENCE

(Cicer a



met wer is
ase 10 tet mg
; $e oe
§ Suns (J tat 10 nance (J) CENVRAU INTELLIGENCE AGENCY : o- 2
orsteor [5] $0 : : 3 :
a Tntelligence Information Cable
: | county E ‘ : Tocs
DATE OF DisTR,
| INFO,
vi BS
ing. R
‘ im) (ie
eo : eG tae
gucee : : °
i a ea . Lcrafelth oe 9TH85. :
FIELD REPORT NO.

URCE,

JPPRAISAL

> RE EE

MEER <n —= EEE EEE <s00 -

1. ON Ig JANUARY 196% THE WIFE OF VICTOR RICO GALAN, MEXICAN MARXIST
JOURNALIST, ADVISED RAQUCL TIGOL, PROMINENT MEXICAN MARXIST JOURNALIST

AND R OF THE STAFF OF POLITICA, MEXICAN COMMUNIST SEMI-MONTHLY

MAGAZINE, THAT RICO GALAN WAS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUSLIC, MRS.

RICO GALAN EXPRESSED THE OPINION HER HUSEAND WOULD RETURN TO MEXICO
SOMETIME OURING THE WEEK OF 12 JANUARY,
2. FiELD COMMENT, AN EARLIER REPORT SAID RICO GALAN WAS PREPARING

R
TO GO TO THE DOMINICAN REPUSLIC FOR THE OSTENSIELE PURPOSE OF 1

GATHERING MATERIAL FOR NEWSPAPER ARTICLES, OTHER EARLIER REPORTS

i informating afecting the Mattens! Defense of tho Unitad States oitbia the eeanieg of the Lapronace Laws, Thue
ond TH, the Unrumtaion uf reveation of which la ony mancer to en uRsuthorieed peron is prohtot >

“Tate tatertad €0t
IL USC Bees

ZCRET
nee Cu Nasi
ATLJINE DIA SAME/ACSE NAVY AIR ICS SECOEF NSA NIC AID USA OCH ONE «OCR CAR 00"

Rt COPY



KCATIGN = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS ¢ - Pi

a i in 201 ou pry

“HAVE JOENTIFIED RICO GALAN AS AN AGENT OF FIDL CASTRO, WHO IN MAY
. | 1963 WAS GIVEN AN ASSIGNMENT SY CASTRO TO VISIT CENTRAL AND SOUTH
! ALR ICAN COUNTRIES TO. CONFER WITH LEADINS COMMUNISTS IN ORDER TO

| Hits (TAYE PROGRAMS OF ANTI-US VIOLENCE AND SASOTAGE. SINCE OCTOBER

1953" RICO CALAN HAS VISITED VENEZUELA, COSTA RICA, NICARAGUA, ©
ZiL AND PANAMA.) .

CUATEMALA,
3. TIXLD DISSEM STATE FGI CINCSO.

CLASRECATION + 3:

© PNUATION OF TREE IS ORNL

a


c pieerereeeet 7

[ oO — . oimegtoR nt : 7
i t ‘

+ FROM 4 DOMINGO :

i actions. ‘by8 r!

Bue Gh, CI/CPS, FE, FL/INT 2, VR

PRET 1115052 ~ :
{INFO DIN CITE SpoM 2606 5 ate
1 Kext reas (iw asecd yoo :

1. $004 YOULD LIKE INFORH HIGH LEVEL Goon MEMBER

HEA Satay Dat REGULAR CONTACT GF RICO GALAN TA
3 ¥HEN TRAVEL VERIFIED BY LESS SENSITIVE SOURCE

SD0N SO INFO HAY BE PASSED.

Xe

Custat, AVERITSED TRAVEL.



i
i
i
i
!

ait
* OFILED 9918682
Pp

5S ECRE T 9918982 : 9 VAN 64 2a5uz IN 95254

tee
oon. A Os. ~_ assirieo messace
usin tno ey

wart 1 Np

wer pied
Ron MEXICO cue
ACTOR, we :
apop, 0008, ca 2, ca/eea, cafonor, cafo h,

crfos, cific 2, ei, erfo, eafint 6, wIT, °
o/s, aofcr 2, vas : :

mere:

Rg
+

¥OiR SOM INFO ACY CIT

(IN 7
is

596)
Rioo/sbsb. n2° 634s. TOCS
tNTEL

HMM 7746, HMM 7466
SUPDATA SOURCE LIENVOY FROM TELCON BET
RMEBERTO CASTILLO, BOTH NATIONAL LEADERS \ OF THE MLN. CARMONA
"PASSED THE INFO ON RICO GALAN TO CASTILL

XI 7695.- ; ;
. IN 64 IN 59626:
63/671, cust ge g ana sunee re

XEEN FERNANDO “CARMONA AND

X1CO/DOMINICAN

Y REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN ce 8262
REPUBLIC SUBYECT PROJECTED TRAVEL OF VT€TORRICO GALAN TO°
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC DO1 7 VANUARY 64 PADA 8 JANUARY 64 APR 2 SOURCE

WO GEPARATE CADLE DISTRIBUTION
BS BMING MADE OF THiS TOCS

<won -2§

DATE DISTRIBUTED, ,
10 sanvary 1964

00552



wes Os [x0

H SEGRE Tm an cenreat INTELLIGENCE aorncy @ ROUTINE
{ _own6r C0 .
2 telligence Information Cable
MEXICO a QOMINICAN REPUBLIC © * -gwege=3/569,563

T vanvany 1964 : : pista, 10 vanuary 1964

PROJECTCO TRAVEL OF VICTOR RICO GALAN TO
THE OGMINICAN REPUBLIC

uaico, mexico city (B sana 1964) Rte IN 95254
HELD REPORT NO, vin 8262

see te

BPPRAIOALE 2

Z gor- 33647 S

VICTOR?RICO GALAN, MEXICAN MARXIST JOURNALIST, 1S MAKING
E PREPARATIONS TO CO 10 THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FROM MEXICO IN THE VERY
NESE ruTure, THE PURPOSE OF RICO GALAN'S VISIT 1S OSTENSIDLY TO
PREPARATION OF SOME ARTICLES ON THE

GATHER INFORMATION FOR THE

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC,

2, (FIELD COMMENT? RICO GALAN; A MEMBER OF THE PROPAGANDA COMMITTEE
OF THE MOVIMIENTO DE LIGERACION NACIONAL (MLN- NATIONAL LIGERATION
MOVEMENT , PRO-CUGA, ANTI UNITEO STATES MEXICAN COMMUNIST FRONT,

AND A WRITER FOR SIEMPRE, MEXICAN LEFTIST MAGAZINE, VISITED PANAMA,

700 -= EEE BRET <~on - > EEE REEDS <> 00 -- es gee]

GUATEMALA, NICARAGUA, COSTA RICA, VENEZUELA, AND Sx actl GETWEEN

<*00 -= RREIEY GUE <~O0 -

Fab Gattis CRS ELNEE Randecd hae aad SoS RMA acl on Yes Rddniag Ele SEorboaBE ACE Tithe [
Prather pedals byclsoere ear Betrivpct oth erie elie
SECRET 5 atid ose festa

DIATE Big ARAI/ACSE Mav XS COLE A. AD USA OC ONE Oca OB CO”
ror tans, PERC INCL ANT



CLASSIFICATION — OIIEEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET, Manassa MST
RICO GALAN SPENT EIGHT DAYS IN CUBA DURING MAY AND JUNE 1963
INTERVIEWING FIDEL CASIRQ.RUZ, PRIME MINISTER OF CUBA, ON THE 4
LATTER'S STAY IN THE USSR, DURING THIS PERIOD RICO GALAN
WAS GIVEN AN ASSIGNMENT TO VISIT COUNTRIES IN CENTRAL, AND SOUTH
AMEQICAN, WHERE HE WAS TO PERSUADE’ LEFTIST PARTIES TO BEGIN
IMMCDIATE ACTS OF SABOTAGE AND VIOLENCE TO TAKE THE PRESSURE OFF
* VEUEZUELA, HE WAS ALSO INSTRUCTED TO PURSUE COMPETING LEFTIST

FAaCTIONS IN THE COUNTRIES HE VISITED TO UNIFY SO THEIR WORK WOULD
‘IN’ THE."S) VARIOUS COUNTRIES HE

TOCS -3/569,563

HAVE GREATER IMPACT ("2 50. 2°
ViSiTEO, RICO GALAN CONFERRED WITH LEADING COMMUNISTS ANO LEFTISTS,)

3. FIELD DISSEM STATE FBI CiNcsO CINCLANT.

iH END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION — DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET 06 RRDEN SSE
pa. 20%
~ CONTINUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION acPORT

wr. O08 oat)



<n te

“10s DiRECTOR

from 5 RIO DE JANEIRO |. : ;

acnion, #4 8

‘Tmo bor, A007, Ch, C1/ors, cific 2 wore Ri/an, SAS dg ve

SECRET 1219592 :
DIR POSCH INFO MEXE CITE RIOD 2393 1900630479596

REF2 DIR 7936 2% :
1, ABOsT 3 DEC ALSL42-1 MET MEXICAN VICTOR RICO GALAN,

eottoa OF SIEMPRE, “HO SAID CAME DIRECTLY FROM CyBa WITHOUT
STOPPINS MEXT AND INTENDS RETURN CU3A SAME ROUTE VERY SOON CSIC).
RICO YAS CONSZCERING TRAVELING TO PORTO ALEGRE ON 3 OR 6 DEC.

2. fesse] RICO SUSPECTED PERUMEN AGENT ON SPECIAL MISSION
FOR ASTAIS~-1, IN BRAZIL WAS TO MEET VITH PRESTES AND JULIAO.

GIR REQUESTS aNY INFO HIS TRAVELS aM ON HIS CONTACTS. CABLE

: 1927,
| ANY IFO PACY, RICO DPOB 5S ell Asis: NEL FERROL, MEXI.
i 3. «INDEX 9
; °
| SECRET
fi : : :
“ C/S COMMENT; 4RE REFORTS THAT VICTOR RICO GALAN IS TRAVELING THROUGH
i =
4 ad AN
iM Ee & Yet

SECRET ete oo
i REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIGITED Copy No

tere



¢

Ta metertel maataton Bitten attention the: Marinaad Mitenie ousten of (hs tactrmane Lawn, Tithe
te USe bas oad one ion ter Henimamewe OF frveletoon cb whki

8-B-C-R-E-T
ne ————HO_ FOREIGN DISSEM.

couNTiY = Panama/Cuba/Moxico : REPORT.NO. CS ~3/566, 671

Comments of Londors of the
sue <
fcr Vanguard of National Action and PAT OSTR «5 December 1903

7 Tho Partido Dol Pueblo on: Visit
i Of Castro Agent to Panama bacthtnieed 2

REFERENCES RO

23° October - 5 Novombor 1963
Panama, Panama City
(30 October - 7 Novembor 19%

FLO REPORT

HZP-6340

cet

Appraisal of Content: 2.

1, On 23 October 1963 David Turner, leador of the Vanguard of National
Action (VAN - radical pro-Cuban revolutionary group), informed members -
of the VAN diroctorate that he -had received a“cail from Thelma King,
pro-Cuban deputy to the National Assombly, a fow days earlier, Turner
said that tho purpose of the call was to arrange for Turner to meet.
Victor Rico Galan, a Mexican newspaperman who works for Fidel Castro.?
Turnor sald that the interview took place in Rico's room at the Hotel
International, and was attended by King, Turner, and Hugo Alejandro
Victor, president of the Partido dol Pueblo (PPP, People's Party-
Communist), with which the VAN is disputing leadership of the revolution
in Panama, Turnor said that Rico questioned bis guests about unity
among the leftwing groups in Panama, and Victor cddly informed him
only that effats were being made to roach an understanding. Turnor
refrained frommking any comment at that timo. Rico invited his

_ visitors to have lunch with him; however, Victor declined, and King
wont in seanch of copies of newspapors which had reproduced statements
of Panamanian students warning against plans of the National Guard to
stage a coup @totat tn Panama, Rico had specifically asked for these
publicatTons. Thig gave Turner an opportunity to talk alone with
‘Rico, and he informed him of VAN activities anc of the steps being

takén by the VAN to bring about an armed movement tn Panama, since

- conditions were ripe for such action,

Around 26 Octobor 1963 Ruben Dario Souza Batista, national secretary

3.

: gencral of the PDP, said that a Cuban agent had recently visited

5 Panama to urge tho VAN and the PDP to resclve their differences and ,
4 unite. The PDP, however, violently rejected the suggestion. Souza 4
2 3
2 2
1, : '
PonELGh Dia

Tana

INCSO#

— —... -L-| HZ2P-6340
CHYKIAK-2) NYAD, HYADIZ
| CS-3/566,57

CADP WHER af
a3 a
IE Le 7 i aa een rer
ret raises ci3, Fr 3, CA 1, one vere NCA

SAS 11 (i), WH 10 OQ), DOS 1, jaune |



3.

: to support the Cuban line of armed revolution.

pre...

ae

a xO Pokefck Sidén

-3- €8-3/566, 571.

said that PDP leaders plannod to ascertain the correct name of the :

agent and submit a written, protest concerning ihe activities to
tho Soviet Embassy in Mexico.

Around 5S November 1963 Ruperto Luther Thomas, national.secretary
of propaganda of the PDP, inform ‘egionaklevel PDP lead 7
, Armando Conte, a writer for Tt in Mexico, recontly ca

Panama and spoke with. Victo:
the Cubans, and had come to Panama to convince Victor of the need

that the PDP would not be'told what to do,. because | it had its own
on the Panamanian Revolution.

Field Connenta

1.
at which time he provided the following Personal date on his
‘- landing card:

“Born on 6 February 1928 at E1 Ferrol Sreomayly in Mexico7
Citizen of Mexico, bearer of passport No. 16897

Occupation ~ newspaperman
Permanent Address ~ Providencia 930, Mexico, D. F.

Rico left Panama for Venezuela on 22 October 1963.

2. Travel records contain no information on tho arrival of any
and the name is believed to be a pseudonym uged by Rico. It
is interesting to note that two VAN sources identified the
visiting Moxican journalist by the name of Rico or Risco}
however, no PDP source has reported that name, and Souza's
comments as reported in paragraph 2 tend to indicate that the
visitor concealed his identity from the PDP.

‘FDCS~3/563,671, of 31 October 1963, described

Headquarters Comment. ?
Rico Galan’s visit to Mexico in the same goneral terss,

_SECRET

Victor told Conte -

Rico arrived in Panama from San Jose, Costa Rica, on 20 October 963,

person with the name Armando Conte during the period in question,

ae



i TO DIRECTOR: : . ,
_jnom RIO DE ANELRO = ee
_, ARON wt B (ste copy svorreD aT 1735, 22 Nov BP) «
t info 4 DOP, cu, ci/ors, cific 2, FI, SAS 8,-vR

SECRET 2214152

7

PRIORITY NEXI DIR CaRA INFO ROUTINE GUAT MANA SJOS BAOP. ae
‘sl Pacy cette RIOD 2728 2aiav83 866750
| iw @sot®

| REFS A. DIR 79362 “Be caaa’disa Cc. atop 2702 Lin. sere) *

ALACME/ALSTAVE 20 AND 21 NOVE%ZER INDICATE THAT LESTIST
MEXICAN JOURNALIST NAMED "VICTOR", PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH VICTOR RICO
“GALAN Ww contact WITH PAULO SCHILLING, COORDINATOR CF POPULAR
MOBILIZATION FRONT, WHO ATTEMPTING GET THIS JOURNALIST INTERVIEWS
} WITH FEDERAL DEPUTIES LECNEL BRIZOLA AND NEVA SORELIY« SCHILLING
INDICATES THAT THE JOURNALIST HAS TO LEAVE BRAZIL VERY SOON

ANO THAT FHIS JORRNALIST SPENT T¥ENTY GAYS IN VENEZUELA AND WAS
‘
IN.CONTACT WITH THE NIX TRERE.
CRET

TRATIONS ARRIVAL

C/S COMMENT: *AS CF 20 NOV RIOD UNALE. CONFIRM THRU PCS F ei
VICTOR RICO GALAN,

yee

aa 'y fat hes 26 ipa aft fe

)
i oe
: a
} poe Aree
: Ou nd ‘
: e
H
i
ieee eee
pater



[W8Oa § RIO OE UANCIRO- i
; ACTIOMs wy & - (WH COPY SLOTTED AT 1500-21 NOV 63)
j tO + ppp, Cl, CI/oPS, CI/IC 2 Fl, SAS 8, me :
4 .

Zifosin6 5816

SE CAET etizosz : i ee

PALGRITY “EXE DIR CARA INFO ROUTINE ith MANA SJOS SAOP
“PACT CITE Rtop 2702

{ HEF Ae DIR 79962
Be CARA 8158 (Bsusa)e

4 AS GF 28 NOVEMBER RIOD UNABLE CONFIRM THROUGH

AAAIVAL VICTOR AICO GALAN ZVEN THOUGH ALSAC 3 BELIEVES HE voULD
«SOW OF ANY CONTACT WITH PRESTES BY TRAVELER FAON Las WILL
CONTINUE CHECKING STATION TRAVEL, JNO OTHER souaces AND
Gi ADVISE,
SECRET
C/S COMENT: *REFERENCE (Is Brak
1
‘
=
SECRET ee
‘ : EEPRODUCTION BY OTAR THAN THE ISSUING Seay Ne



{sro 4 CARACAS bee i

fy ASO C/o §
4; 1MFO . « 00P, ADP, 5/Ci, C/FI 2, C/SA3 5, VA

a es
SEC HE T 2019352 a : aNiev82in65022

Pali: AICS INFO OLR PACY CITE CAkA 2198 '

aaat
{ ASF: OLH 75513 (NOT SENT #109) _
‘|
I

26 S.

N AGENT VICTOR AICS 54 ITIZEN, NE¥SPAPERSAN, «

PROVISENSIA 933,

i

i

4 i
|

{

}

;
;

i PALL POSSlcLe IND WE GALAN ACTIVITE

i

; ah

uses stata
{ sEcRer |

RetOGUCT ay OTe Tne

> Sed § SRC EE



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

i :
rent ese senihtareremi a e
, an 7” Fgfasnd4180

sem LGUATEMALA CITY eee Sani eiaie ogee ees mer
PAgTION WH 8 : Paeeerru ee ereaiemuueentttt ae 7
ig + i
;ewo «bor, soo, so 6 C1, Ci /oPs, ci/e2, Cr/oa, Fi, 988 8 8 pai :

SECRET 19720392.
_ DIR CITE GUAT 3343

REF GUAT 3537 fu 63 3a)

DIR 79062
1. MATERIAL RECEIVED FROM ESHESSAGE-3 19 NOV 63 CONFIRNS VICTOR

RICO GALAN INTERVIEWED GUERRILLA LEADER YON SOSA NID OCT 630
ee

2.. RICO GALAN HET BY RAUL ALARCON HONSANTO GUAT CITY AND TAKEN TO

INTERVIED YON SOSA UNKNOYN SITE,
3. ALARCON PGT MILI TANG LEADER stupreD IM MEXT AND CUBA.
a, i HILL POUCH DOCUAENT RICO GALAN YON SOSa INTERVIEW AND INFO

ALARCON, /
secret

's COMMENP; @SUSPECTED PER@EN AGENT VICTCR RICO GALAN MEX! GOURRALIGT REPCRTLY
Weis CENTRAL, SCUTM ARTRICAN ON MISSICY FOR AMTHOG 1 i pai

: i SECRET ae
- RESTON FT OF ea Peer La Pe | peer) ons B races Cagy Pee


| a CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ~~

TO 1 DIRECTOR a
trom, MEXICOCITY -- . : ae

wi 6
CA 2) CA/PEG, «CA/PROP, FI, VR

| ACTION

INFO 6

| SECRET 0117302
DIR CITE MEXI 675@
REF MANA 436260 Sdl- ord

VICTOR RICO GALAN PUBLISHED INTERVIEW WITH EX PRESIDENT VILLEDA
MORALES IN CURRENT ISSUE SIEMPRE. STATION WILL BEGIN POUCHING
SIEMPRE REGULARLY TO HQ, “:

SECRET

ee C/S COMMENT: *APPARENTLY WRONG REFERENCE.

use
[ SECRET ] oor
ErBODUENION wv ora San an thi an | Orne reoraniieD Seer Rea



: sore ares seeegeere Tee Tae | COMMENT Fe eae —
TRANSAUTY,. ae a <
; qeee IMPORMANON REPORT fD co) eeCRer
id
t
jr
ie

PACE 10Sy (IB 47764,
PACT 1087 (IU 19223
MAXT 6723 (TH SO1L2,
NP (SYSAGE



INFORMATION REPORT

COMTRAL SHTELLIGENCE AGENCY

fe agrees etaing iceman, ofert 14 the Mebatet Gelens of Oe Un 56 Het vata Mg momeg, at te Bresmves basa He ih USE dees
FWP gd Tas the wemmenese we hecsishioe of etic lo pry mamwe! te ae enveme me
ClASte ICATIOW

SECRET wo rorcaoy olason

1theg Pad fs
Counmer cups (v1 /005 7A RICA/NICARAGIA/ MrORT MO. TOCS 3/563, 671
PARANA VERIZUZLA /BRAZ IL f :
SUBNET THAWL AND MISSION OF ALLEGED até OrsTe, = 31 OCTOBER 63
: CUM AGERE TH CENTIAL AND SOU
a AMEHICA paeceoines §=PRIORITY
carson “7 : .  MUPERINCES  5O1L2
WHO. 2022 OCT a TLS 3/263,137 4778
Dati uo PAHAMA ,PAFAMA CITY (2h OCT 63) Tues 3/462,790 49213

APPRAINAL FLD RIPGIT nO,

This ONEVALUATED mipORMATION. 1quBce coaDeani aoe DEP mITIW
source |

CAN HEWSP2° SEMAN, ARRIVED IN

(HPAIMANTERS CBMENT: VICTOR O90 GALAN,

PAMISA FRO! costh RICA OM 20 OCTORAR AND LuFt F, ‘ACAS 22 OCTOR'A 1963.

1100 SALAM 16 A MARCIST, {A “2TTI2 FOI AND POLITICA, MEXICAN MAGWINES,

HERD OF THE PISPAGASIA COMMITTEES FOR THE RATIONAL -LIFCHATION MOVEMENT

: aNd 13%
(HE), & COMCMIST-PRONT HOTRENT
COPMUNIS? PARTY, TN OCTOIR 1962 RICO CALAN WHAY TO CUBA 73 Far.

ATLL IBFTLTIATED FE IeBRRS OF MICA

ARE A POLITICAL

ELGGRAPHY OF PIDEL CASTRO. TM RAY 1963 12 AGAT WRIT TO TIA, RUTURNING 10

REPORTEDLY INTTRVIFFID Lcemnies

RELIG 2%
AFT2A CALTEO'S 3° TURG FROM THE SOVIET URICR AND ALSO SPIIT a PIVZLAL

21563. TURING THIS LAPTER VISIT HE

Ska-OOLNG VACATION WITH CASTRO, OF MEOH HI IS SAID TO @ a TLOCS FRIEND, REGO CLAN

CA BSIAC ATOM am ESI ATION CONTROLS

SECRET pio rorezon rec

Cc es Ran ne



CLASSIFICATION © OASUMINATION CONTROL
SBCRET/HO FOREION DISSEN 10€83/963,471 *

: Xe VICTOR RICO GALAN, MEXICAN NEWSPAPERMAN WHO "RECENTLY" SPENT EiHT DAYS Iv

CUBA OB VACATICH" YITH FIOBL C/STRD, 4AS GIVEN AN ASSIGNHAT TRING THIS
HERE. Hes. 145 70

: PERIOD MO VISIT COUNTRIES IN CENTRAL AMD SUUTH AKSLIC,
PERSUADB IBPLIST PARTIES TO BEGIN LHMZDIATELY ACTS OF SAWWTAGE AND VOLS TU’
: TAKE THE PRESSURE OFF VENEZUELA. KLCO CALAN WAS ALSO LMSTuuCTaD ‘Ty THY 1
PAYSUADE COMPETING LEFTIST FACTIGNS TO JiLPY S) THAT THELR WORK dil HAVE
‘GREATER LAPACT. (HEADWARTENS CondaciT: RICO GALA CLHARLY inPLIZD Tu sie
SOURCE. OF THE INPURHATION THAT THE ALSIGNHSET HE 15 WOW AUS LLING AS ED
HY In JuNz 63.)
2. RICO GALAN $a1D THAT WE hAD GONE FRGH

WITH GOME2 AYAY (#11U), A GUERILLA LEADER SM HE ENCOURIED TD oi
GAN Nigtal LLs

X00 TU GUATEMALA, WHZAG iis tu.?

Sh ent

A SGAILIR APMC Tu & HC

u AND VIOLENT. ACTION. HS ALSO MA

LEADER, (ABADWUARTERS CUSMERT: TT Ls MCL WHATS: RICO clan ASTUALL!

Pah TE OTL

wit.) wy,

VISITED HICARAGUA OR (HETHER HE SEV

RLSED ATTH ONE OF THE SORA PROTHEI. (HES DJARTENY-CORLAP: Sudan

“HORA IS PRESENTLY IN OSTA Rica. L Fas,

THE USSR, VIA MEXICO, 27 “SPTUAKER 1963. POT ARE be

IN rANAtA 22 OCMOL F PTA CA AND

COMMUNIST PARTY, ) AICO GALAN ARTY.

LEFT PANAMA POR CARACAS 22 OCTZAER 194}, 1 CANACAS HM in Tewinu SL NTACT

FRG

BLY ARIELIA Lanta aT, 200

APSELIA LATA,  (HEADQUAR’

—|
SECRET/ BD BY
Teas a Raven ce cs whee
“ ee



CLABISICA Tis ~ DISSEMANATION CONTROLS

SECRET/WO FORESN DISSEM TCS 3/563,671

TO THE VENEZUELAN CONGRESS AND dIFE OF RAFAEL 2. MARTINEZ, LEADER uF THE 1itieD
FORCES OF NATZOWAL LiscHATIUN (FALN - VENEZUSLAN TERRORIST ORGANIZATION.)
3. IN PANAMA PATAEDI 20 922 OCNSER RICU GALAN CONTACTED HUGO VICTOR, PRESAicE

"oF ma Py RTLDO DEL PUEBLO (PDP = PEOPLE'S PARTY = COMMUNIST) AND DAVID Tultii.n,

A LEADER OF THR VANGUARD OF NATIGNAL ACTION (YAN ~ PRO-CUBAN, RADICAL REVOLUTI OW AY
GRGANIZATION)» Off 24 OCTUJER A MZETING WAS HELD TU DISCUSS UNITY OF THE lect,
COMHBICEMENT D7 SGURESSIVE ACTION, AND A MeHOER OF LéeTIST UUITS TU GO fU ine *
ELECTIONS AG A 2LOC SOULD EFFORTS TO PREVENT THZ ZLZCTIONS FAIL. THIS MocTING
PRANCO, THELMA 4ita,

AAS ATTNDED BY TICTCR, CARLOS DEL CID, ALVLAO &
RENATO PEREIRA, Aig THO UNIDENTIFIED STUDENTS. (7ZRUCQUARTERS COMMENT: At

81TH GOOD CONTATIS IN THE, #DL, REPONTSR Tis

INDEPENDEWT, U3¢a:

WHO) 743 ON A AICSLON FOR THES

VISIT TO PLNAMA OF 9A CUBAN WRITER FOR CIEMPRET
CUMAN COMMCMIST PARTY, THE VISITOR WOM SUURCZ LID LOT IDENTIFY BY Nied UROL
SOLVE THEIR DIFFEHENCES AND cL1Te. IS PHUIUSAL «AS

9 PR) PRYTEST THe

: THE POP AND THE ZAM TO

OrO5aL TO THs

(LY REI20TZs af THE POP, wnICK iN Tut

¥iube

DND OF MESS AG:

CLASHAICA Late - DILSEMDIANIC CONES,

SECRET/) PURZIGN DISS!

pawrri

vem D+ rer
rrr aancre,
CONTAVATION OF (DCs DO CAMATION UPCaT



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SAN JOSE
faction, wi & (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED ATs 1635 31 OCT ep)

+ BOP, S00 6, Cl, CI/oPS, CI/iC 2, FI, SAS 8, RF,. VR 2 POWwas

SECRET 3120152 AB
FRICRITY DIR INFO Pact CITE Suos 6350 MN JI16
REF DIR 79062" : :
1. SUBJECT REF, TRAVELLING In (JE NanE WITH MEXICAN PASSPORT

536¢1, ARRIVED FROM HANA ON TACA FLICHT 121, 17 OCTOBER. YE LEFT
FOR FACY 20 OCTORER ON PAA FLIGHT 501.

2. QUERYING HYRUM-1 RE LOCAL CONTACTS.
SECRET : :

rr

C/S COMMENT: ACTIVITIES OF VICTOR GALAN.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN IME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

|


Chief of Station, Mexice City
Se Managua Cor
a ‘Victor WR100 Galan p83.

Referencess a, DIR = 79062

MICROFILMEO,

guy 8 193

be MANA @ 4563

poc. MICRO. SER. i

Attached arepnewspaper clippings and text of radio _tnterview mentioned in

reference be See dace fev oe
ae

Def yibavbs

Peter RK, NALESNIK

DISTKIBUTICNs

42 = HHO w/ace h/w
2 = COS, Mexico City w/att b/w

ATTACHMENTS 5

2 copies text and newspaper clippings

KOEN

a a

FP esraten ean ano sarge

“OHNMA = - 3003» 31 Cctober 1903

Penny ee Mears t exsesae

do



lee

“wap
Nd sumGiz veal ROFL

ENTREVISTA WECHA 4 via 24 oe Ut ad BGS ak od, Mae KUNE AMOS,
: : teesatealet

Abe A eh oes oA Cite Bh a et a
WER. AdLuue CIPFIUS CaMaAD ARAB iak Fac A bene th Ls wus

an’ 1 | aaa Me Ge pene

oe. heat A DS voll ae ley se ru o CAFS, grevsy wr clam

Te, que ve le hes fonadnto a wevds ar eulooray yu cravhs Je iodto berisi leo,
clertog alrcentos pakitiow

oh, oe cargos wo steclutanmce falecs, ons vos qe Ut. we pregunte eas:
eretancate cores 49 cads use Je. slloo, yo i donvirtuindalss, th, cad Jar a ov~
uscer Le verdad, sim oabargo ov intercsarfa, oh, antleipar le optaide fe a Pave _
thie swerca Je por qad ao ha depatady co los Utinss d¥oo una carqeds tas fintins-
oa de Gifomicién contre ai Partide Muvilivavido doyublioans, sosctres entenhonwe
quo Gate cuapate co debe 1 la twdmods puaietsu wi ue he motads le seactifa na-
zhoeal por La adupotfs: per parte do lea jéverse Je la Universisud CatAliva de ue
programa rovalueianaric, an oferty, taut’ Ja dantamaién ¢e prieedphus do low ji
veuse d¢ Te UA corm nus rOplicns cartwuhmtes = bow PAHL ANT.BLO Cuabis,
aropie rector ac ls Wa, sl 97. MAAS HWVAY, Naren ereor on la Jaetage da ou
plantaslente.- uboru bien, ai heoay de que ota jnrontit gus sa alde scogide va

wa alary propitimlo pur loo aattor, tosza ¢ ion sefwres de le reaseidn uactces),
sot# teveatasdo ov vor adeyrarsio uo leugus je tevaevionartc covflo al de tvlos

ios vactos 40 agbrics Lacana y al norbo ao jay ena dotlardeisy dc padacipiog de
Doe pSvence de la vacidies, tengen aigoms similitat nual ecw od pategrane pel (tion
doi Partido “oviliusctés depudlivasa, of ia comms vordadara yarn que ta image Lon
seuundy toda soto tempontad ventre al tartide, gin anbargo, ch, 10 yodente aso
wavs evitar yuo por wun mecuaidal bdordries dab jogerrolio soisl do loa guodioe
Lats oomes 0 . $0UH POF vuwbo da juromtud, loa jévenoy do le vetdiilea ver

yen decproatands to viejo, lo yuo yu emore ca lu qaateind nicaregiiase 7 vagen
Selidariammdo cun loa Purtiden que aenn ov duuaidu hepubiicpas, ceprosentan ho
swew, iv progeateta, wl ferdrens wadervo 7 revolueieserio dentre da mueytre gnig

Vay aorbGd WuBEML, adore tafersario que dedle waforusienes dat in
dad: a Dame wo grave cise) aatve los
ee prteer To-er, gab Sey oun pe.

sey
nih IO Pupatta se sotre ba ine yo se
Ia gamble ni noumectiy yrava caster at =
geste a) eage ul fren VID tra tT

je wo pe uo LLawedie ah sane del eatgs Leta braid vt 2, we t9 oe
iry oo ta direceith Je} vemanerio HP. agi comm te du diresnién masieaal sel Pas-
fide eviliacciés iopubligans, por causes punmente partagulery deltdo . lie
Muyasiouss pervenales del sr. BFi4, yard he ctlgtide cod ALDAMTY S0hUe Wek
o> wta te pugs + tiscusise tiowldeiva tentro dal Partide Novil deeedds nepun! t-
ue, 89 Se saperubacids totri-wnte conmite Js ivgos clerges degir gia BYetl.
head, 9 1S PUTRI Thee woe jumcury fachailivts paryue tobe ab rartide wh. Las:
mw a pootmre eeivoulieta, co abverde doolr que LYUGY VRLKE oo 74 porgie any
Law gue el 8. wo Lebo nujetares a mead ct + Pekin, porg e2 fartade Herili-
sopubl ions fasde ceaptarie cujestones « ainges potunals exiret pe,
spite ovillaceiéa supuiditune imwes aa pet fires doutro be Los fratene. weeny
wid, GOOCLT vs Duy BLFAgLimE jer Unsetees cAawe, asm Alon, mre Gecwstier 4
~egientessute ive Yaleoo do las dicoushans smomuies ca soe in RULE Lone
VARY VHAL con dusig civedove dal rayrade soitienctéa nepahhiewe on lo aena
‘den ¢#] itedngo pructas pumcls, aa aevio aliala, tO +EPE oe ouuurrid, a
eaietié 6 eos reuién, do secers qua jowns pode resm aor qeetres J! amuai sna
eunede no asistid sigziove 6 tien comion-

f AAMD 302% id Dore B34 7H


reo

Bod Cote d, OD cates juddry deci
le, come previoto quiero inv si es mee neane cotd cal infonado de
que ega Infortcién sperocida on .ativy nformoimnes, Ju orf po > le oubrt en
tite parte tea clerts coma yut de se Llama ‘ivate aster: wousalee, de esta wer
tide de EWATL ViLtT inclivo co me ao los Jetallas que acuiea Je iv pebddce
qre habe soateniio oon varios -lecires dal «. ¢1 cual, an al cual ortetia de
yao Cebfe de tener a) ji artido un o0ic3&: nachesal iota ein Aina »oja y ain
“oucd y sim otra influencia, pore td. ya vapiied cata pregunta » aliomn puso a la
aisuiente.e Se dijo tomiden de que habfe qruvoe cargoes contre iue dirigeites del
Ma. por haber dejado en Las sontwing sKuxtonsdoa a ioe Sévenns uo hublaw ido 4
luohar all§ con lag arms cn las cence, wh hay de cotns cargos, gruves per clure

vo ?

sD Partito 4. mo he teuid> jamls ailauma, seusriog uv iatog alg me con Gi 1 rane
te Yantinist« de Liberacién sudioad, autor do lus querrilles en a) wrte del

Pets, por cunera que me terencs adayin comprovise con les auerrilieros, tal poe
defo culpireele de ruber abamionsio a tedse €n un o-prome pur i cual nosotros

jands hecos partici pato.s
Tort Sen cure 2a anterior prequnts

190 a Aecerle otra pregunta

Py Wand badd. TRL quiore alvertirle
de que an emtroviata que dif el ide.  LUALD ant AIO WI ee Eb po Quo umghasiws
qne tormabun parte ou evil:accif apulliguna ne habian Ady com al MLA. sora
ftertien so tuvo coneciniento de que oqaf aati venide un tenor Ueowde fly) ude
Ly reprenuntante de lu reviatn a de te i teieddy “onan y Le revista tar
‘Blon o publicavigs Lianada “PETIA comstieraty @atnentanente on sAxico como
isquierdista, tantsen se it:o que tl. ae Nitto entrevigemta en al cuurto 9477.
dol us wyted Goa tate acior RICO OMY, privatancate, le adv.erte you wala
forvontén la obtuy hadi, Infoaracicnes en fuente de tanta cp&dite come Je nore

8 ou palabrae~

vend, Jo yu, sutra ta cuegtifa cstevior que id. insisie en vameulor al Re oon
wovicdentos guevrillereg, Ina veinc An @ AD gon, eh necns es qué al HN. Jant,

ka cenido participscién en atigss inearreectén en sieurngsa, col. Be tendde oa
ee wm hewio ciarto, al heute de peo ulaums wigutros jdvenes dol fs. hayon partie
Gipade en alguna ectivilud quarrij}ora ca im hecho qut eusapa al coucrol oficial
dol Varthiove a cusata ais Vinita ga poriedista Vid wdvd dad Adobo deciles
qua va tre Ja leo trnculengtas cue yo few Inventade ai estes Q cies diag, VILE
WIOY ALAR 29 oi periodista de enverjadura costiumntel ou ro wrocide en au puld,
M@ticu, G2 ceo virs; suche: 433Ca9 wxtranjeroy que vieites Mdearagua, lags
eed Obdcdes 2 acre un. entreviate, supe por Gi udaxe quae vchfa treieio do cue
trevgiar al piesidente seifek, ene asthe logrevs onurevistar . 1.3 fmelomrics
80 lu ceerstarta de tnfermactdi y Frewes, que bubls rucibide un hovenaso de parte
del embujador de dxico en Mena ua y que co banfa visto finalosnt oon diversas
persousiid.des polfticas que « 1 le tnrorevacan pare cir ec manidn y formers

wm juicto scarce scares du la aituelda polfrsea de nicany., por Dtre parte al,
isco diario is-Neciéa ls tise uaa entrevirta a tiyisk ICY wield solwe los MU tinus
eeootociulentes ecuscitos = le <ep@biica de Heaturas, do anern que sug pesee pt
Bisaragus no tiens enta de Qariestiay nl fo carractdinurio, J sevinta “SIKEPnh”
@ ho cual Ml oo representaute a3 uns revieta quo gale por igwrangia o por ada
£8, 50,pued qalifioay de wt Srusso’ issunontista, exalqudera peryena que haya 63-
tato on Néxico y qo Suva tde abt, fuies can wo de resin, pedrd dese events de
qua “SINGHE" @6 wns publicaciés cempletamnts eqadlibrada, qalero decir om aote ,
da qa ca gs revises ve pubiiea tunte tusis. de derosha cons tzusa de iocuierde »
qua fresusotsonte ou ego revista TETUK R90 dian ha aqwusad: ol pongamhento
afiediul del debdlerme “exisamo, m lo revista “RADICa-, en, do la qual tengo agul
wa n@ieoro, perde coutrarie que apareee procisammts un artiao de ¥}TOK Rly
QALAN en qua deficests le palfziea exterk.r del progidente Lid? |, eo commen,

@

paren eee



Hee

ree

tp0 eo oar@ portodiain ne be uate eal isieur te quiere coe emer Jeo «ae

te extrenjero, alwro yur @l et catrecsa$ os au ere Wie %.vioes turers rwhin oe
lupresivuws ewerte do is aitaraifo nicsunes sho um bates tou ands de tecrety

y ls que tangas carmen ve wt ranerio paiftics Gas vents » pelle cowntis al rom
tide Mae eosw [0 te dicho algfn persdusoo, eete 03 1m abeares -rae im tiene nlacuma

buge chorss~

20, dase by wbeanw Rede Uhealdn, pore antes Wo forraserie I. Meiss pee
Buile -MLsAcrA que +o contestara coccrArioammnte, in viert8 ist, cm al ae otal

@ 10 lo vieith, mbnaSe qusers sdvuruizie wa no grag nf Aeife Sufcrameionas mi los
peTEMistes wscignales los qua harms dede al coves eutes ge exeroe anqeients a Bas
PUdbacetinses put vade al Pe biessii wh ie, cin we ae2 log tence ort dd
209 da rBeice 195 yuo an Ache tel cori, -eiaicra id. ques -w enclostare la progom

Bebe so duralar,

ew.

cae baad aes sugeew$ara 9 -w wccerf & tila, rv
Hoorwiic. awe oe 1k Chae” MO pee

wud LO de joy th cre Goce perian!
shu pts Si vied; 2 uilaw C atane IIA &
ike sotetbtor te sracine y yo ww ofrek pure pisar 6 buscarte al tun Apeal,
garpleonte ao ful a iasoar, 1 96 vim camo o uh Ovieine, aia eetrve
de was Whe y Medd ¥ WYO oo TRO 10 sun ne scontecidoge

de nt vOndartad Ja vetican de mr neve com 1, pase e390 te nog do
v9 Uw ospscuier an nutyiwe tora, esd aber, per. or far parte Bh
fu omavta -uie iniormoinen.= Von Poureeto a ta prenoite Mitive, os le voter
te. ads enarenaty Jab ate swaingy reaiiionde va adit party ge cuarem, pe Lune
Toma periotertas y lu caudonake an geanral, “owlliiscsfe . ape ctacary, 0 we jor ile
cio wie Uardtentes pai (tiesd, Gumuros unm. eOrie da anunates y Pevaliwsdoane ve 20
din del qurowiterte plied, vo eo. cabrevasca ys ba ruae3 * wh aecamsto cabsilan,
BH) Sign ho pa cdbese ue dapisvores a ames ado tudes 2© s5un Tostbue: oes 7

be Charly wwe
dercune a no

ba vouniSa yw yoeriset ci varude evabigouide Heid dete om ot boner de - vams
ft PaaaisS Be Lueiae pts ind une ye fe aobadbo Gir cadinen gut CIsetroe Larrhoe
SOS, FANGME uendttus teohemde Prewe de pela Liveta fesizer een reuniln anole
Bal Val POPdso ee Ue da When LOR! at poe RE Nan FERED Eate Re eTeTioreg, os dow
Lr Gn dare pedede CoO, ceeea fon Vermalistia, wie 99 orate condueta tre tin
etal PoP we ue ferns atl Que OE A) pamene sacorginene, ain aherce ta
Oo, ke duces miiaeae te ke bacne di jude park ests reser poo ue ike 9

wha pao.
verisbesr haar oe kas do nm os, 1s mene aneerior cave stro, «iy rust laccian as
Ju Peeabtien de ce re a wy tabla caine be punto de rewifie 8 be tet. 6 Ty aS
BED GL ct eee NG Gabecoiny Rb he LAN ESTEEM eNO aha BOND ee BK or soe
tas ROHOT EDT

Sat Ge autre ae ae seede ae ta reset,
tas Sdase UO egtus.uemy, ZousL os dod Crema,
teva rediaart. oa

OF Sta ay oe mew fae Eyal
6 PURE Det postr le leek us fe meemAc ys en setumie L
fon POP in wants He UE alee! PAE Ge, bo Be ful WIERD Ee be oe
do jas novotims swrtewe cedet fe cay ate ue lea tee stones Oba yao oo cao

28 he Oaybenl®, rae 4 Met iaed wo uate, ie rms. oteboes$ @ la cemems
dehite aes ba setae é SB et ce

et va eed ch aL Spe a re oad

AU AeA GPE OO ae Cet Gk wethemte te de cep diniee, si Ce ete
eminer Le wttutiade. arfiac pal so sod pins te Ne Ms ba eT eeky | oti Ore
ward, Fr bs Smad oe ARK OL ana be ge
cor ete pare oe ba ek wt tat tae
Mead ba 2 vad fd OMT D CARD pote
Bere Thon cme ne bite  Mwae cat

msbsueadn we A abse at
Lee GP aD

wa Mica a
PR Ae et, by Con taad
frente te wt
coe tee
vot cade: tka 4

value OB OR GYEetan
rei ecan
TO8 ctl ae

a ativte oe

* tae, ba ub
afte 5 we
Runrenn reenter nernins)



Ghent ate oe

Bee

eoopare abrir pldtiese om tal centide a iva dtemle partides opopitorve, por
@tra parte 90 traterca oguitos rotinarics Jo orgonisacidm interva Jel Mrti-
doy do Mnanolemeitos ue aestto seawarke 41. que hubfo pascdo diftoulte=
deo ecantetoan, pore que cas el aporre quo efreciersa loa Mélegatus do todos
lop vepartesestes 06 hen coliionado y velvard aparcear o! Sébude prixias.

ACU-SSCY?Y


! Carta del Dr. Alvaro Ramiecz |

iy

fale
pee :

‘Don hoger Moret Aliero,
‘Director dr] Diario ~

LA NACION:;
‘Managua, DN.
Bliimade setior Director:

= Con pena he lejdo on et

‘fa edicién de hey, 1a inks

ST apelin fein que bajo es
Fortin columniss da “grove ci:
ma on ol MH” Utrera. 15
‘Yettores, Lode 068 que MA ce
Port ria me hablan entrovis
fade y en juuar do puniient
Ia realidad dw ist enna to
Jieron un fol'etin fabwe y ton
_ denctone,

Digo cun pens. porque hax
ta le pritente owabin, ci,
[Diario LA HACION nubia,
Tithtenldo feapecte a aus
“tro Purtide getitud de res
pate y tolerancis seyuramen

stu reefyroen & muertra pol

clon frente of nyberinnsy
pari para romper tal state
quo WW era memati ee
retro fa ehitnnis yw Na in
juris,

Mb parties ner pure yar

Bin ree
fitien tn aeeserseiin que: on
| Shine “Caretty sce tah
CION en ay enttdn Gre ee
atyunan mdecedros de “BER
hibrtan loresae ba seussesor]
) amniea nursira dirigenela co}
sar reaporasbls dy ta meen
te de fox guerejeroa et Tio!

le ntyativa 5 on

- sobre la crisisen su Partida:»

kt ?

se Bocuy por haveres oorts.to
Ja ayuda de nuestro Fertide
(Cuando ag sabe muy bién tus

| fooriurge'y pelea de bos a Zap 0Dt timete © slide
; lores de essa muertes, tail jon’ enuttanter de Nietogy

{ta une infamia ocusar’ay Par y

tito Muviltzarion Repunlie® | Ton "1 pola En cor
‘Diorio qua usd dinge, ex 18 de actos por tos cures 99 ' 6g completamente al

purds responder, nt por sc gupone f, como bak
eién, wh por omision. Fs 10, co LA NACION, que offers!
ciorto-que “Mit” Jamés 10 qiata mexicano Victor Ried it
Presuuto .ringune ayud« ol, Geign, hays venido a ‘ped
mov-miento insurreccion«l 4°] nos rendition de cuentas
setualmuints ne “hete desesp: | neoteos saben Ins gisebelBae:
Tadoinent# en jus montis | gel Norte, puea somos 29]
de Jinotegs y otros seclute’ | non a tal. movimiento y,mme.
del Nor”, sein “LA NA] tra pofltica te trozames.we 1,
1 GION", deuido a que no wi" | tow mismns y jumda descr)
mos nt hemos tenide jumas| demos de ainaune Intiugreze fy.
Ringdn ucuerdo con el “Ven | extruniers, Una Revohueses:
fe Sandinista de Liberacloz | nw peded. tmportarse de aval
Nacional". El Mit sostions w-| guns parte. ¥ faimentas ta
| posible cuando eb parte
to del probiema insurreee’o | carngitenen dvelda hagess
fal. pura considera que cone | eqtonees "y solamenty @nioo
pretlda politico no tene ca} cen “MR” ocupurd ef iit
par dad sctusimenty pure | un jo ehale wu dekot, 53
inegelutts en tins teh Je] teidAica,

na postura muy clara resp

fm nuturalers, ¥ nova pers

sido hevho pristons
nde tte pron boy
¥ Nov murs 6 polis

otroe seectures denifier

Fl perindinty Rien dpi

£ pertivas dy dxite a tal etuce rae entreritd on mi Oxelge a

de tucha en Ins eetua’es cir

mos el deena

der ta 0)
tmen

ennatineiag Esta no. angnill rounnreron

ara Ya rratidant gvlonat 10
menos que no noa die'n Jel nen nada de wreretes ay 4

4 ches fr60

tenes Wi

muerte de yarlot estullicies! ajand-anran, bien purest

un'versttarion otros Javenes!
en clreunstonelss que hablan! miu Ly Rewsta “s
: cca, | eee 4b reurescaty no cattery”
nae! onde w hn realidad. Cus ore
| paw no sn un Igocome 1
‘entre 1] perladismo real

@chws en una rie 2

:
Br tastes sobre oun feed
ty
Fs
a
r

‘ }

2 | 2 ph paws por Manama Be |
BIS hth tratd de entre

Gab'ee y logrd entrevister -
Large personatidader pot!
Pigrara on

auticr tx stunctiin do Mor

~ fortuna, 8Y Presiqe

ton Te intézes
omer formarse un dite

toon eens alert
“ents stractin dol Sehor B=
Seuglor de Mieco, ¥ debe f
Hi enn ow trnclonariia A
ta Sooretaris ete ntormseice
a gPyciee fine'mv ote mel
oA da Nan re BAT ¥
{

sm mca trgnttectes

69 fo ethay Wa Gitte o
tae 4 ia P Pag. dots ¥ |


2 do react
"ately “caso” de Everts Velen:
ho posh de aor prodtote
1g mento calonturienta dy sus
} Feporteros. Jamés ha qetallty
“dlgeusidn a'xuna con 6), auf:
+ gd Fverta sobre la “pubap 2B).

. Sontiderada on MIE que. tAL
problema -es-de- jo buagbep:
Co exclusiva de tos phruiag
‘comunistas, y sl nos; inter
sa, toma a’ cuslowlar ger h2
Tanne, es por el fnoacte qua

a ds. dichor pastl
Con tone on todos lus paftes
etmundo tn verded 9) res
Peat ox ue Rvertz, 0 NT
retimda qe: In-Dirooetda ae}
{Lawman MR get come? de
WW Miescelin Nactonal “9

Se yNnElonos perronalen,”
“5 lamentable aye ao
en 2\ NACION

MoviPnetin Repubiiasns,
UD rats ta ests eficiente da +
ts rampafia aue no ha treph
J dsta on utitizar medion

& datad por In dtter pectodtis ft

# alee, mp es otra que ta ine

awe def sans
‘elds, Mdeoltaten nideents
Pav nar toe tavende cativtian
f tea da tn. Halenrettud Cale

| ea, Tento ta Daclaractén. de
Yrtnetuias da estos dvenea |
Nae. aas, We

fara ans
Racine dy eh Untetelidat
weg Byhty Antone Conde
othe “Mivfele fives or 8
plas han sada contrade

F
H
{] austen Partito debitg ‘e a. |

wetlea” pura ~ beuiog-~

i

fq

4

eons

tn rescelin ha crgige.
jReseario arremeter ci
; Ruestny part'do! sabedora «
Sauo Ms’ nuevas gencractened:
bla han dado jas cepajdas sans,
paitivamente a lo vivjo yer]
Fiduca de nuéstra aocledad..r |.
Sharen: entise contin contr’
“partidos que como “MR" +
eBresentan lo nuevo y fo! pre
y FSI. No ne escapn a mp
Bie‘ comorensién que tater
farsurata campsfy du “de
Spreatigtn trozada en tora o*
Partide Mov jivactén Repub!
tana. fostd vineurids & “|
veafientos dy clorton etree
songervadorss, ultradere. st
fea que dercanda opacay,
‘Dr. Aguero v trunear au, by
gretoria pocittea, desern,jh
wont “gt Partida Consaryt hy
un cy’aberautonisiny
cone} rég.men yaa
ellos na dan cugsit
¥ of fredlo nicarngtensd.L,
yaa, ‘oue ot Partida Mt
ti
Ma egntra [+ povttien pes,
ia © ene ¢80 nos aredag’
LBeetico a usted 1h pull?
ia Bhteern de ta prea,
if "NACION  persdteit’s
Wwhint y espiring?
nfi'en, qutaléramas Ye?
itamble, 7
Abmetecienda de alte
Ja pubheretin dy ia utesgal
| ine eg grato suserttir,

Atta y 3.8,

bas auvaro Rains
. GONZALER, 2
Reenter 9 General del “Pr

a aU EUS



fue

Golpe contra Vi lieda Morales
propinad por la Mision Militse i?

one

eppesasiey aengetauoan

fore? gy

Declara en periodisia moxi

ano &

a teow q

dpe Caste seuimen

aot De. van Bey recat dese

Tondurea, one tie pretueses Cats, peee et Pe

tol Ejereiio horas sptrnte Cram: abe A AL :
Rene rabicca toca Ia pfesin

festa vba
réia Chil v do Potties. ©
Pea odiuma Ma,

quis fan

Rein series
Republica de Hess
aberroae Hh +

Beane Vietos Rien Ga'dn, Re

de iad Bstudus Unidow. go a
1 Lego Fetiriéndon: & 1a ‘B

Hien de su patria Mextoo, af
fo: “Deate lueza en Miixtoa,
‘Ro existe ef Intifundismo co!
0 axlstg en Centroaménes,!

BI mucho mcnos, pero hay:

todo en lo relative a ts orgs
hisetin adecusde fg ta ox
Plotactén, det crédito y dey In
Comerelalizciin, que ana
juena parte esté en manos; |
He) empreran norteamerie:
hun, como fas nigetoneras’y
ursee,

[EY periadints Rico: Galin
vmanffesté: “FL eis do sa”
tampa on Méxlea- 08,
fue dton Hence Herts part
trabajar, pero no son duefios
fie sa producctin. y laa man
66, Jn5 yecta Uenen que ver,
ger! mis emechas per adtata
“fad a precios exnlotadares”,

Pica Gatin Hiatien at Prost *
dente’ LAper Matera como |
rartencetnte
‘eentre trqulerds
Ltedndate de
como tn han Hi
Tree patses",

EA sefier Victor Rteo oot
5 bin eunchisé dieiinede on
entievieta al redactor Cote!
Chamvreg que 1 "Tapadiene
en Merion chrstste esenmial
mente on Ta desionacién 9
fin randedetn previirnetal, es
bard etl sae rete 9 Blalmem
fe partes ta tores def bees
parthin setustmenie perautrt
do, part au ncodn pre
< pederedid bo oe tect 9 ‘of

EI perindista Métor Rico Galan,
= par Mapuna riunbo

ety Ha si mOvintenth etait
Gp pepalaradr ads

taren hh bia er
WAM reso



7]

1 DIRECTOR © :
mom y Mauou | He

| |

ds VICTOR RICO GALAN ARRIVED MANA 13 OCT VIA PAN AM FLT 501 FROM

| MEXI, HE LEFT MANA FOR SAN JOSE ON 17 OCT VIA TACA FLT 101. ACCORDING
“ LMNIGRATION RECORDS, RICO BORN 6 FEB 1928 AT EL FERROL, SPAIN. ADDRESS

“IN WEXICG CITY IS PROVIDENCIA 93. IMMIGRATION RECORDS SHOW HE ENTERED
": NICARAGUA VITH MEXICAN PASSPORT NUMBER 16897, BUT LEFT USING NEXICAN

_ PP NUNBER 33641, ISSUED 9 SEPT 63. (PROBABLE ONE OF NUNBERS IS PP

fF NUMBER AND OTHER IS REGISTRATION, >

: 2. RICO STAYED GRAN HOTEL, ROOM NUMBER 437, WHILE MANA. HIS VISIT

WIDELY PUSLICIZED AND HE GAVE INTERVIEWS LOCAL PRESS. MET WITH VARIOUS
: NIC OFFICIALS FROM ‘MINISTRY OF PRESS AND RECEIVED BY MEXICAN
AMBASS#DDR. HE SOUGHT INTERVIEW WITH PRES SCHICK, BUT LATTER DID

“NOT GRENT INTERVIEW. i
3. UNABLE DEVELOP INFO RE VISIT WITH UNIDENTIFIED GUERRILLA LEADER

MENTIONED REF, BUT RICO DID NEET one OR MORE TIMES WITH ALVARO RAR EREZ

GONZALEZ» SECRETARY-GENERAL OF ae ee REPUBLICANA (HR-COMMIE
rewards

POLITICAL FRONT) WHO ALSO REMBER ceniTRAL COMMITTEE NIC CONMIE PARTY

PSN). HIS VISIT WITH RAMIREZ GIVEN PUBLICITY PRESS AND RADIO as
SECRET MEETING IN RICO'S HOTEL ROOM. RAMINEZ ANSWERED BY WRITING

: { SECRET ; ae

ene eee


"=~ EETTERS TO PAPERS SAYING HE HET RICO OPENLYIN AIS OFFICE AND THAT
"RICH HAD CALLED OY HIM BECAUSE HE JOURNALIST SEEKING INTERVIEVS VantOyS |
POLITICAL FIGURES. ON 24 OCT RAMIREZ INTERVIEWED: ON RADIO AND WHEN | -
PINNED DOVN, ADMITTED THAT HE VENT RICQ*S HOTEL ROOM, BUT SAID :
PURPOSE WAS TO TAKE RIGO To HISOFFICE.
4. CLIPPINGS RE VISIT RICO BEING POUCHED NOS AND REXI.
SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *SUSPECTED PBRUMEN AGENT VICTOR Rico GALAN TRAVELLING + CENTRAL, SOUTH
ERICA ON MISSION AMT HUG-1,



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

70” DIRECTOR
‘rom MEXICO CITY

acnon,  C/WH 5
INFO, DOP, ADOP, C/CI, C/Fi/o 4, RF, WR

SECRET 302108
PACY INFO DIR CITE MEXI 6723 Sen
i: ZAKNICK HYSAGE
REP: PACY 1033 (14 46470) “4g terg3in50142
pacy 1987 (tr 4421S) cad :
VICTOR RICO GALAN, NEXICAN OF SPANISH ORIGIN IS
MARXIST YRITER FOR SIEMPRE AND POLITICA BOTH BIG CIRCULATION AND

i EFFECTIVE COMMY LINING MAGAZINES. HEADS PROPAGANDA CONMITTEE FOR .
: MLN WHICH COMMY FRONT MOVEMENT RATHER THAN PARTY AND UHOSS LEADERSHIP

IS HEAVILY PCM INFILTRATED. OCT S62 WENT CUBA TO YRITE CASTRO

PORITICAL BIOG. JUNE 63 INTERVIEWED CASTRO IN CUSA AFTER RETURN

FRON MOSCOW. RECENTLY PUSLISHED INTERVIEWS YITH GEN PERALTA

N GUAT AND VITH YAN SOSA, ANTI-REGINE GUERRILLA LEADER. CHECKING

BACK TO EARLY OCT SHOWS NO RECORD HIS TRAVEL TO OR FROM PANAMA.

STATION HAS EXTENSIVE FILE ON RICO CALAN.

SECRET

ea wort

C/S COMMENT: ®DISSEMINATICN APPLICABLE TO RYBAT ZRKNICK,
“9CUSAN WRITER FOR "SIEMPRE™ ARRIVED PACY,

SECRET

BEPROOUTTION BY OTHE? THAN INE ISSUING OFFICE 18 PROMBITED Ceay Mo ee



ons,

vurs  WHZS7CAS Oo inctx

i + 6342 ONO IND
SA) 29 Get 1969 0 Fue IN ENO. 201-337

yo + SEB BELOW
= #ROMs DIRECTOR -

cones WH

Into | DOP, ADOP, 320. 6, Ci, Ci/ars, Ci/1c 2, Ci/ca, FI, sas 8,

PRIORITY WEXI, wo E cimeoR
GUAT, HANA, SJOS, RIOD, : : 79062
SAOP, PACY '

2, SUSPECTED PBRUMEN AGENT VICTOR [CO GALAN, MEXICAN
 Sounwatisr, bPoB, 6 FEB 28, EL FERROL, MEXI, APPARENTLY USING
BATRONYHIC, REPORTEDLY TRAVELLING CENTRAL, SOUTH ANERICA ON
HISSION FOR AMTHUG-1, RICO GALAN LEFT PACY FOR CARA 22 OCT,
eo 2. FOR MEXT: RICO GALAN REPORTENLY RECENTLY SPENT EIGHT
DAYS PORUNEN ON “VACATION” WITH AMTHUG.1, DURING WHICH TIME HE

RECEIVED OPENATIONAL ASSIGNHENT OF ¥HICH HE NON TRAVELLING
BN LEFTIST,

THHOUGH CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA, ALTHOUGH WELL NN
, ARRANGEMENT HITH

a HE IS ABLE PRAVEL BECAUSE HAS SOME SPEC
MEXT GOVERNMENT WHICH GIVES ‘HIM SPECIAL PRIVILEGES FROM REXT
EMBASSIGS 1M PLACES HE VISITS, GALAN'S #ISSION TO PERSUADE

LEFLEST PANTIES IN COUNTRIES HE VISITS TO BEGIN INSLDEATELY

ACTS SABOTAGE AND VIOLENCE AND TO TEY MAINTAIN THESE EN GRIER
TARE PRESSONE OFF VENEZUSLA., GALAN HAS ALSO BEEN INSTRUCTED

FUING LEFTIST FACTINAS TO 1

TO BRING BETTER UNITY AMONG COR

ENSURE GHYATER TSPACT THEIR abRk. TO CONTACT IN FACT GALAN

Continued

oeceasine orrieee,

REP ROOUS


Younite + DINste
, bre DQ NO ote
‘DATE © FILE IM CB FILE NO.
i

“yo 8 :

from: DIRECTOR *
(Es oreeearo

CONFe
7 ROUTINE

0 . W840 one on FOGG 2

' GAVE FOLLOWING ITINERARY BUT NO DATES: FROM MEXE TO GUAT: GUAT’

10 MANA: MANA TO $308: $JOS TO PACY: PACY TO CARA: CARA TO

BRAZIL. :
3. FOR GUAT: IN GUAT CALAN SET WITH GUERRILLA LEADER
: GOMEZ AYAU CFNU).
3 For BANA: GALAN MET SITH UNIDENTIFIED GUERRILLA LEADER.
FOR SJOS: MET WITH ONE OF THE BGRA BROTHERS.

J
WORXLARAX AX DERNNNAXNAK XLS RTAAWEDX ANKX BER VY RERNN CARBS Pe

ror rion, saop [ |} GALAN TO if

JULIAO. GALAN HENTIONED PRESENCE CUBA WIPE AKO FAMILY SULTAO

€S AND

WITH PR

TO JULTAOQ'S ADVANTAGE.

4. REQPEST, GUAT, NANA, 5JOS, CRA CONFIUN DATES ABR AND
DEPARTURE GALAN AND ALL POSSIBLE THFO RE CONTACTS. SFQHEST

PHAZIL CONFIRK DATES Akt AND DREARTORE AND BONTTOR CONTACTS.

CABLE REPLY REQUESTEO. WITd INFO TO P#EY.

END CF ESSA

eH SAS/ +O -Cae,

AChahis3 2

we —
Tif AA A Soe 6
NARARESSINES ean

mann ia e
» i a

ROROUCHE GY Chi tan 1



TO» DrRECTOR
ROM ¢ PANAMA CITY
acnions C/wi 5 (WH Cory stoTTeD aT i4io, 28 oct 63 (P)

iro ,D0P, ADOP, C/CI, C/F1 2, C/SAS 5, RF, VR i 0

(SECRET oRIS31z
Pero ity 01P CITE PACY 1oRa
; iMEN HYSACE Z8tGx49019. or
per pacy sose ( 10 IVES) :

FOLLOWING INFO GRTALNED HYSAGE=) MEETING 94 OCTOREP

INADVERTENTLY OMITTED FFs
PLAS POCA PLANS MANE ANOTIES

VICTOR PICO GALAN TOLD HYSAC? THAT

HE PRLISV! POSITION ArTHig-~ Xs

ATTEMPT CAPTURE CONTST ST
,
VEAKEHED TO POINT THAT PRASE OTS PROMISING FOP SHCCESS.

NYSaat

IT
THIS INFO, BUT INDICATED FY scree

DID NOT PROVITE OPTATRAL SOrP.
CONCERN TO PICO GALAN. *

a

EE |

IME DESH) OFCT 1S PROMBITED



"

i s
Fla £) Secast 2 : : :
33 CeTORE 1969 ; oe :
CARACAS PANAMA CITT

(04 ATS) CARA Poet
Reva 8) nase Z
As Pac? 16a (is 3780 HOT GN? CALS
Bq PACT 1994 (fm 47704) MOT SANT CARA
4. PRASMRW AQEIE Vic ven RIGO GALE, Manica OPTIZEIS
HEWESAPHAMAR, BORN S YES 1935 AY BL RAR, BERiory
SSIES

4

PEA MANRNY ADORESG PROVINENCLA 99%) BENITO Bs &
PARA 33 OCT VLA PAS PLE 6S, 819 PGR CARSGAs, MaRCPAS? FOR

PRG. ly 35d LUTAD Hiss GEA DAVE cNTEtS Hakan, “
¥ GALae ta aves Aes te dee ESP

area)

Qs She Be Staten te wan

'
i
i

SRS SS018 AMTRIOA VERE Maaeiey SsaanATe ARTSY Banged 1 ~
cours ie PETS SY PEM ATELY ASTS Babe acs 24D
VITLHCR Aue TO TRY Matnram yams fe pagse fan PERMIAN oe
CRMRS TULA, PRSSDLY Hed GOuE ABRANUSMRNT wits ERKIREH |
COVER AMET WHICH DIVS8 isi SPATIAL PAWILAGSS 2B ay sseaidisde
BADASIAS BI YLATHS MB VRS, GALAN CONTACT 9 VEniEe PSig da Y

DR OME ARGELIA LAAs

oy BEQUEST CLAA KEVERS? sit, PONSIALA Mere Cees |

BALAH AUT IVEERDAs
GRAB COLR by Heavies ad USts Be SST, C/GH/ EHR

a sRCauy

neta tame
eesti en tetera



: :

patna pee EE

ee

6 PANAMA COTY
Cf 5 (HR COLE y WH NOTiFIED AND -TTNPO COPY SLOTTED 1950 25 ocr 0)

neo + DOP, AvoP, C/c1, C/ri/o 4, C/SAS, AFAR

SECRET 2519962

¥Sivu 147983

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE PACY 1058

mezeen i or
a 47784) isis a

REF: Pacy too, [1M
IDENTIFY PIRUNEN AGENT REPORTED REF AS VECTOR

AICO, NEWSPAPERMAN, BOKN 6 FEBRUARY 1928

de TRAVEL ©
210 GpLaN, cts:
AT EL FERROL, PLEYANENT ADDRESS PROVIDENCIA 930, MEXICO, D.F,
COSTA Rica GY 20 oe GTOBER 43, USING PATHONYMIS RICO

ARRIVED

Pact BY ALR

STNG CARD, Naw CREST FOR PAA FLUGHT 315 LISTED RIM

TH PREPARATICH }

UNDER PATRONY!
T FOR CARACAS, VENEZUELA, GN 22 OCTOBER.

CALAN,
GO ALERT CARACAS,



E

H
1
i
if
4
1

a4 =

- 4 DECTOR :
FIOM» PANAMA CITY : i Cone en
ACTON, _ C/WH 5# (WH COPY SLOTTED 1515 25 ocT LMA) : i :

wo 4 AD0P, DOP, C/cl, C/Fi/p 4, C/sAs, RF, VR

2506783147784 °

“SECRET 2516002 ~

sey DIR CITE PACY 1034

BAT/HYSAGE :
REF PACY 1033 (Ww Holo) KK : 2 in

DURING MEETING 24 OCTCRER H{SAGE-! PROVIDED FCLLOVING AMPLIFI-

ea
CATION AND CLARIFICATION ROLE OF MEXICAN JOURNALIST, RICO GALAN:
STENENTS > RECENTLY SPENT

ZENG WHICH TIME HE

As GALAN, CONTRARY, TO HYSAGE EARLIER ST;

MEN ON” 4 :
EIGHT, BRUNE OM TVACATLONT YITH AMTHUR SL,
RECEIVED OPERATIONAL ASSIGHMENT ON WHICH HE NOW TRAVELING THROUGH

CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA, ALTHOUGH WELL KNOWN LEFTIST, He IS

ABLE TO TRAVEL BECAUSE HE HAS SOME SPECIAL ARRANGEYENT WITH

WEXICAN GOVERNMENT, OETALIS OF WHICH NOT CLEAR TO HYSAGE.
ARRANGEMENT GIVES GALAN SPECIAL PRIVILEGES
FROM MEXICAN EMASSIES IN PLACES HE VISITS. HYSAGE COMMENTED

THAT MANY MEXICAN AMABASSADORS VILL BE ANGRY WHEN THEY LEARN

Hod THEY HAVE BEEN USED GALAN, :
GALANS MISSION IS TO PERSUADE LEFTIST PARTIES EN COUNTRIES

HE VISITS TO BEGIN LMMEDIATELY ACTS SABOTAGE AND VICLENCE AND

TO THY MAINTAIN THESE IN ORDER Tax’ PRESSURE OEP MEGEZLELA.

GALAN HAS ALSO BEEN [INSTRUCTED TO BRING BETTER UNITY AXONG COMPETING

LEFTIST FACTIONS TO ENSURE GRZaTER EMPACT THEIR WORK. IN THE

, mH ADDLTICN FORESENTIONED INSTRUCT.OXS, CALAN WAS TOLD

oF P

AEPROOUCTICN BY Gini THAN INE ISSUING OFFICE 15 PIOHETEO

7 aus
ROUTING. foc



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TSE 1] ina 77ST pace 2 -
TO INSTRUCT HYSAGE THAT SHE_IS TO VITHORAW FROM THE NATIONAL COALLTION
PARDY, AND OVERTLY JOIN, ONE OF THE LEFTIST.PARTIES, OR TRYTO FORM
NE THE INSTRUCTION IS CLEAR THAT THE LEFT IS TO GET
TOGETHER. HYSAGE WAS ALSO AGAIN ENJOINED TO GET HER SON OUT OF
PEPRUMF. AFTER HEARING THE INSTRUCTIONS THAT GALAN HAD RE UNITY,
HYSAGE TOLD GALAN THAT SHE, AS A WOMAN, COULD NOT ACCOMPLISH ALL THIS
"AND SHE DID IN FACT DECIDE TO BRING TOGETHER HUGO, ALEJANDRO WICTORs.
HER CLOSEST FRIEND IN PARTIDO. DEL PUEBLO (PDP, PEOPLES PARTY i
COMMUNIST) AND DAVID TURNER, LEADER OF VANGUARD OF NATIONAL ‘
ACTION (VAN), CCOMMENTs HER RENARKS INDICATED THAT SHE DID NOT
‘TURNER BECAUSE WY Is APPARENTLY SERIOUSLY ILL).

- INCLUDE JOR.
GALAN URGED VICTOR AND TURNER, AS REPRESENTATIVES THEIR

RESPECTIVE ORGANIZATIONS, TO MAKE NEW EFFORT TO SETTLE
DIFFERENCES TO BRING ABOUT A MORE COORDINATED EFFORT. AS RESULT
_ OF GALANS VISIT, MEETING TOOK PLACE AT NOON ON 24 OCTOBER j

FOR THE PURPOSE OF DISCUSSING UNITY, AGGRESSIVE ACTION,
"AND MERGER OF ALL LEFTIST YNITS TO GO TO ELECTIONS AS A BLOC

IF ATTEMPTS TO STOP ELECTIONS SHOULD FAIL. THIS MEETING ATTENDED BY
VICTOR, CARLOS DEL CID, RENATO PEREIRA, THELMA KING, ALYANO

/MENSUOEZ, AND [WO UNIDENTIFIER STUOESTS/ ALSO DURING MEETING
REGRQTMARIINEZ, A PROFESSOR OF SPANISH AT UNIVERSITY, WHOM HYSAGE
IDENTIFIED AS MEMBER OF COMMUNIST PARTY SECRET APARAT, CALLED VICTOR
ASIDE FOR SHORT CONVERSATION, (COMMENTE BELIEVE THIS MAY BE JOSE,
DE AESUSMARTLHEZ, PHILOSOPHY PROFESGOR UNIVERSITY), HYSAGE HEARD
PART OF CONVERSATION YHICH VAS TO EFFECT THAT, AS REGARDS COORDINATION

AND NEW DEVELOPMENTS, A MEETING BETWEEN THE SECRET APARAT AND CENTRAL



+1 “CLASSIFIED MESSAGE [ SECRER ww 784 prea

“ GOWNITTEE WOULD HAVE TO Take FLACE ON 29 OCTOBER AT A PLACE ON THIR-
TEENTH STREET. HYSAGE SAID THAT, REALIZING IMPORTANCE OF MEETING,

SHE TRIED TO GET ADDRESS AND WENT $O FAR AS TO ASK VICTOR IF SHE COULD
BE INVITED ATTEND, VICTOR TOLD HER THAT, ALTHOUGH THEY ARE FRIENDS,
SHE IS NOT MEMBER OF PARTY AND CANNOT EXPECT ATTEND HIGH LEVEL SECRET
SESSIONS THIS SORT. :

C. AS RESULT THIS MEETING, DECISION WAS TAKEN, APPARENTLY BY
HYSAGE, TO BEGIN ACTS OF VEOLENCE IMMEDIATELY. (COMMENT: THIS WAS
EXTRACTED FROM HER AFTER FIVE HOURS OF INTENSIVE INTERROGATION WHICH
BROUGHT HER PRACTICALLY TO POINT OF TEARS. LEADING. UP TO THIS SHE KEPT
SAYING THAT IT WAS TO LATE FOR HER TO DO THE THINGS SHE WANTED FOR
POPULAR REFORM. PONCHAY KEPT IT ON THIS POINT AND SHE FINALLY BROKE
DOWN AND ADMITTED SHE HAD GIVEN THIS ORDER AND THAT AT THE MOMENT THEY
WERE TALKING, UEYENDEZ , ONE palate POSSIBLY VAUGHAN) »

AND SEVERAL OTHERS WERE ENGAGED IN MAKING MOLOTOV COCKTAILS AND

HOMEMADE BOMBS OF SOME SORT. SHE SAID TARGETS STARTING THE

NIGHT OF 24 GCTOBER THROUGH THE NEXT WEEX WERE SUPPOSED TO BE

PBPRIME EMPASSY, PBPRINE INDUSTRIES, CANAL ZONE, -

PEPRIME GONSULATE IN COLON, AND THE VENEZUELAN CONSULATE IN COLON.

PONCHAY TOLD MER HE ACCEPTED THE FACT THAT SHE WAS REALLY IN

CHARGE OF THESE MATTERS BECAUSE OF OTHER THINGS HE KNEW, BUT GAVE

HER A SEVERE VERBAL LASHING FOR PERMITTING THIS TO GET THIS FAR WITH=

OUT TELLING HIM. HE EXTRACTED PROMISE FROM HER THAT SHE WOULD DO

EVERYTHING HER POWER TO PREVENT ACTION AGAINST PBPRIME INSTALLATIONS,

* SHE SAID, AND AGAIN APPEARED TO BE TELLING THE TRUTH BECAUSE SHE WAS
UNDER Tie Mest ‘TNTENSIVE PRESSURE PONCHAY HAS EVER SUQJECTED HER TO,

Se]


CLASSIFIED MESSAGE . cb Heal iwHZ25Y pace 4

THAT SHE vOULO TRY TO HOLD OFF ACTION AGAINST PBPRIME EMBASSIES AND
CONSULATES. SHE SAID SHE WAS CERTAIN SHE COULD NOT STOP THE ACTION
AGAINST THE VENEZUELAN CONSULATE WHICH was TENTATIVELY SCHEDULED
FOR NIGHT 24 OCTOBER, AND PONCHAY TOLD HER NOT TO TRY TO STOP THAT
ACTION, (COMMENT: ‘THIS PORTION OF INFO RE PLANS FOR VIOLENCE WAS
“DISSEMINATED VERBALLY TO LOCAL AGENCIES, ODTEST CONFIRMS THAT MOLO~

Tovf COCKTAIL WAS THROWN AT VENEZUELAN CONSULATE COLON AT.0040 ON 25
OCTOBER.) : :
D. GALAN WAS ALSO TOLD TO GET FROM HYSAGE FOR DELIVERY TO AMTHUG=1
INMEDIATELY WRITING SIGNED BY HER THAT SHE WILL
geen NO FURTREP ASST e TAREE PRON THE OLT GARCHT.

E. IN HIS DISCUSSION WITH HYSAGE, GALAN GAVE HIS ITINERARY AS
FOLLOWS, HOWEVER, HYSAGE DOES NOT KNOW DATES: !
FROM MEXICO HE TRAVELED GUATEMALA WHERE HE MET WITH GUERRILLA
Neenah rahe ONCUP SE a Sonate

LEADER GOMEZ AYAU CFNUD. HE GAVE HIM THE PITCH FOR ACTION.

HE HAD SIMILAR MEETING WITH NICARAGUAN GUERRILLA LEADER WHOSE
eave: Yapage EA ent i PSEA ELH

NAME HYSAGE TRIED FOR TEN MINUTES RECALL WITHOUT SUCCESS.

GALAN THEN TRAVELED EOSTA RECAMAND MET WITH ONE OF THE MORA.

BROTHERS, FROM PANAMA HE INTEDED TRAVEL VENEZUELA WHERE HIS

CONTACT WAS TO BE ARGELIA LaYA. HYSAGE DID NOT BELIEVE HE INTENDED

GO COLOMBIA, BUT SAID HE WOULD PROCEED BRAZIL WHERE HE PLANNED

MEET WITH PRESTES AND JULIAOQ, HYSAGE COMMENTED THAT GALAN POINTED

OUT TO HER JULIAOS PRIME ADVANTAGE IN THE REVOLUTION, I.Eay i
Fact THAT JULIAOS WIFE AND rant IN cuBR WHERE THEY SAVE. GALAN

INDICATED THAT HYSAGE vourPyor vise YsSsane THING, coethent s

Kr : ees
go BER AND HYJADE-1 wader gem REPORTED ow RECENT :
sit

‘Lenten Vi
» rater oven: epee ae seupian amea tua

- Ce) _



wpe

a : st
| i LASSIFIED. MESSAGE SRE os) 7 ug ca Si oe seit

HYSAGE [D+NTIFLED THE FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL PEOPLE aS IMPORTANT

a.
IN PANAMA COMMUNIST PARTY APARAT?

. CAMILO PEREZ, ‘
. PORE ee oiewr PEREZ REPORTED HZP-4384 AS MEMBER SUSPECTED PDP

FRONT GROUP. HAS ALSO VISITED PBRUMEN), WANEZ ZARZAVILLA OF THE FILY
LA HORA. (COMMENTs PROBABLY GE ayae annie aceon H2PA=
11329 AND HZP-4169). i

3. HYSAGE SAID SHE HAD REASON BELIEVE THAT SHE, Nov KNEW SUCCESSOR :
OF DIOGENES ALBERTO PINO, AS IN THE PAST, SHE sarD COULD NOT MEN-
TION HIS NAME GUT WOULD PROVIDE ENOUGH LEADS TO PERMIT PONCKAY FIGURE
OUT HIS IDENTIFY. OVER A PERIOD OF AN HOUR, SHE PROVIDED THE FOLLOW=
ING LEADS: THAT HE WORKS FOR CHIARI FAMILY, HAD BEEN A CLOSE FRIEND
OF PINOS IN HIS YOUTH AND HAD BEEN PHOTOGRAPHED vitit A PROMINENT
MEXICAN JOURNALIST WHO HAD BEEN PHOTOGRAPHED LEAVING AIRPORT IN PANAMA
SOME MONTHS AGO AFTER MAKING SOME PRO CASTRO STATEMENTS, THINKING THIS
OVER, PONCHAY SAID HE THOUGHT SHE ‘Must BE TALKING ABOUT SOMEONE CONNEC-
TED WITH CHIARI RADIO ‘AND TELEVISION NETWORKS. SHE CONCEEDED THIS WAS
CORRECT, AND MENTIONED VARIOUS PEOPLE CONNECTED WITH TELEVISION STATION

a
SUCH MANNER THAT IT AFPEARS MOST PROBABLY SHE WASTYULKING
BES OR LUIS ESTRIBI, STATION IS

ABOUT ROMGLEQ. GARCIA DE. PARE:

CHECKING FURTHER. .
4, REQUEST HQS RELAY APPROPRIATE PORTIONS OTHER STATIONS AS DESIRED,

SECRET
TT ess COMMENTS
i ##;SAGC*1 REPORTED 22 OCT THAT RICO GALAN PERUMEN AGENT ARRIVED PANAMA
FROM BRAZIL OR VENEZUELA.

*DISSCHINATION -APPLLCABLE..TO RYBAT ZRKNICK CAELES..

RNR. dante aetna nd



RICO GALAN, VICTOR :
201-336474 201-003373
SEX M 008 ? : PACY-01933
23 OCT 6

Cit MEXICO
occ 2?

C

MARXIST JOURNALIST FOR MEXICAN MAGAZINE
TIEMPO, POSS IDEN W/A RICO GALAN = WHO
ALLEGEOLY HAS COVERT CONNECTION W/CASTRO
EN raneaedaee MEETINGS W/CP LEADERS IN

| $HMM

>

SECRET

FILE THIS FoR In FILE NO.

{207 837 202 reaniees corner,

CFR”

109 00000000000000000
Shanemanaannnannanane
Tre
222002222202222222222
2999,99099993939323
YT IST TPR
GHGSSSSSIISSSSSSGS LSS
GOCHFC eC HT CO TERRES
LUTTE
tan seee secnsaggenses i

9399999 3089
Panna saan

ete

|
oi
i
H

wash ate

trae


27 September 1903

7754

nin the attached was taken from the LIFTAT coverng!
In conversntion between Arevalo and. Altre
Avankowakt told Awwalo of Rico's
Rico had ation on the United Fruit Company.
att that Mico did not know that Arankowsk! vould asis Arevalo
Arevalo arreet bo meet Aran!

peambers
yienn leftict J}

een
MIGROFILMED

Sey 20 1403
9. BER.

‘somecr

se MOT ove


!
i = . i
faa ,
{ FIELD INFORMATION REPORT
SEARILS OF S0UECE a Cempten tance P Ueonte tle C taste .
Seen ef ttt ony ee fsey org oan at Ne ampwere Eee
J SFEAIERL OF CONE 1 Content he tar nsepender’ ons vabablesowcen 2 Pate eign J Fou
Fa ema be es
| f
t BECRET/ii0 POTION DIDEEA
| Mexteo/Guatensin FEED2T HO WMeepphs
| sesxer ad Travel te Oantennla of Victor DATE OF ROORT by Uepbanter 14/2
Galan, Vaatenn Harzint
NO PAGES 1 :
REFERENCES
bate oF 9 Soptomber 1968
ANF.
pare aed Mexico, Mexteo City (9 ceptember 1963)
Teo UNEVALUAIEN nyeat oe Prunes Su ME Ae LE TEL nT OP I
SOURCE: Apprasnal of
“COReentT zr
;  Vietor Rico Galan, Mexican Marxist journalist and -hoad of tho Pross and
| Proj ‘Committee of the Movimiento de Idberacicn Facional (MLA -
! Rational Liberation Movement), rablidly anti-United ftetes, pro-Cute,
i Commaist front organization, ts planning a trip to Guatemala. Widle
: thar Rico plans to Laterview Colonel Enrique Peralta Azurdia, Chief of
i the Guateuales Military Junts. Rico alco plans to vieit the Custemlaa
i guerrillas,
i
!
|
{
{
i
i
|
i
|
{

BECHET/HO FOREIGN DIBSEM

gest RYTON



SECRET

i (ren Pitted tas

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

Subset oF, FOLNEIFICA nee
- Jeet OF OOCMENT ay 7 DiiGuM MT _IOLNEIFICATION
At FILE NO,

i
'

RICO GALAN, VICTOR - asl
201 ge : 201-007132 : “1809310 °
SEX M 008 HM -07658 - + pare 77
21 AUG 63 gpeneggged .oacdd 020.
es anawusem adn annen sina
au H MEX 1-05895 TUTE UOETCUTE AED
AMONG LEADING MEXICAN MARXISTS AND cON= QNVATDWAAAAMATAANNID
MUNISTS PARTICIPATING IN T PRO~POLITLCAL yo gayngagagagsasaagayaa a
: PRISONER DEMONSTRATION ON I AUGUST 1963 i ie
i bane ARRESTED BY MEXICAN POLICE. POOR TIC iCPmireceerieal
1 =
» | MINENT LEFTIST JOURNALIST. ELE eae
a “ BeeTOC SSSoGsssessees
1) 4HMY DIT TUTTTNTTTATT
TTT 2

1 agg 310
Lo gggggga gg9999398
Maan adagannnanan



a

One a ety

33ek CUSSED MESSAGE © 90/- 3 =

| moans
Loe canes ele

creer Burs

ba yteny

TO pIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY
VACTION: WH 8”
"INFO: Cla -Gisors, “cific 2, Fl, rifnt 2, RF 2

8 : &
§ SECRET 2s26n6z Ls "  29du 89232 ¢
y DIR MRID CITE MEXT 5532 : i : :
"ON 26 JULY LIENYOY REPORTED THAT VICTOR RIGO GALAN, MEXI LEFTIST
—— ma
JOURNALIST, GGING TO MERIDA 1 AUG IN CONNECTION WITH NEW LOCATION
, FOR MEXICAN CUBAN CULTURAL INSTITUTE «THERE, CALAN SAID
R R
ioe :
abs ELGlale Een ae . ¢
0 : : 9
Fy ‘ P.
Y : is
i
y R
oR if
1 4
c
7 Co)
0
. Pp
Y
Y

rrp excLUaED Feoe A
A eoee BENE a CREE IR GpGAD CECLASSIFICAT ICs

20 1389
Ee RESRANUCTION RY ATHER THAN THE ISSIING AFFICE IS PROWRITED, Cena Na



T
{
{SECRET/NO PORBIGN DISSEM — IOt-7481

REPORT COVER SHEET

Bare vr REPORT

2 July 1963

8S

P-7354
Fear.

LIENVOY

wee ca

LIENVOY

‘The information in the attached was taken from a LIENVOY conversa~
tion between Rico Galan and Enrique Gonzalez Pedrero, Mexican pro=
Communist newspaperman and member of the staff of Politica, Mexican |

Marxist semi-monthly magazine.

INTRA-AGENCY

‘CountaY

‘euavect

LAP® Headquarters Lo» Amb, Political, PAO
1 + WAVE Deka
3+ Files

Rorkaamces

i
!

1407 en ts tat a)- BRT

|



FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GHADING OF LOUPCL A Compeety re ae A Urano ace © Facly eelatle Do No meee ce etle Co er cmemne  big'et
10 wewtees of BoWAMU! hunesty on heys's rege foun oF Seas rampeterve 6 Rela ty carne Be wages ASE rd ty untested pr medion y
APSEAELAL OF CONTENT 1 Contemed by atte stezertent anf tetable rdurces 2 Probably tay f feats rue # beets fF iene
Isha 6 Connét Be used,

886 8 & T/O VORRICN DISsEL ~
counray Cuba ‘ REPORT HO. WE 7481
susitct 7) Comments of Victor Rico Galea on the AIL OF REPORT ZB July 1963
Morale of the Cuban Intellectual : :
4 NO PAGES OL
REFERENCES

pate or 27 June 1963
INFO

PLACE & Mexico, Mexico City (27 June 1963)
DAIL ACQ

Tra 18 UNEVALUATED roneat os
SOURC :

On 27 June 1963, Victor Bico Galan, Mexican Maruiet journalist ond

head of the Hational Press and Propaganda Comittee of the Movimiento
do Liboracton Hactonal (MLE - Eationsl Liberation Hoveaent) rabidly
anti-United States, pro-Cubs, Communist front organtzation, said thar
during bis recent visit to Cuba he noticed the sorale exong Cubas
intellectuals was vory lov, Rico Galen caid that certain Cuban in-

; tellectuale do not understand the problems which oxiat for them, aad

i ethers are not vell informed. Rico Galen further said that although

this problen is not opesly discossed, there have been cortaia newepaporo

end magasines published {2 Cuba which pointed out lack of curiosity on

the party of the Cuban iatellectuale and called for a greater reallsstion

Of the problems coafxenting thon.

i 1. F4eld Comment:

Rico Galan went to Cuba om 25 May 1963 to {aterview Fidel Castro i
Ruz, Communist Prime Minfater of Guba, on Cagtro‘'a trip to the j
Soviet Union. Rico Galan returned to Mexico on 22 June 1963.
(CE. IDM+7326, 21-7466)

SRCRET/BO FGAZIGH DISSEN

i | pistagution



The information in the attached was taken from a LIHIVOY conversation
Pe

of 4 June 1963 betweon Rico Galan end Snrique edrero, Mexican

Genanlea
st nowspaporman and meuber of the Staff of Politica, Medican
Narcdat seml-monthly magazines

Jednd, Polit, Are,

lei

no paces

eountay Ho. OF emciosunaa

a None.__ ne
Susser Reremences
ors

Te MOT ne ay p
= 3S copy

\
ie

iat cen crite ae nn tne nara ees


spr Ate OF COWINE
Nise € Cannot Be 903

courtRy — Maxtco/Cuba

SuBsCy Comments of Victor Licg Galan on
Hie Rocent Trip to Cuba

DATE OF

Tes 1§ SALVALLATED saronoat Ov

P Contemet ny other mmtopendent anf cetetle sewer

SECREP

BORG DIDI ——

RLPORE

WORT S66

OAIL OF REPORT 28 June 1963

NO PAGIS 2

REFERENCES,

hay wos Ane be

Info 23 June 1963
PLACE &

DAI ACG Maxtea.
SOURCE «

Anpralaal of Contents

Re

1, Victor Bino Galen, Mextoan Marxist Journaliat and head of the Xatfonal
Press and |ropaganda Conalttee of the.Noviniento de Liboracion Naoclonal
(MLN © National Liberation Movonont), rabidly anti-United States, pro=
Cuba, Copmuniat front, returned to Mexico from Cuba on 22 June 1963.1

2. Rigo Galan sald that while in Guba he spent olght dayo with Pidel Gantra
Rus, Communist Frime Minister, ond also spoke with tho following Cuban

Govarnnent offioiala:

Oavaldo fc Torrado, Proaident,
the"

Ernvsto

Cyovara Sarna, Minister of Industrics,

Raul Boa Careta, Mintstor of Foralga Relations,
Franofneo Wilfrade Blan ilggn Caldarie, Sscrotary=
general of the Partidy Socinilata Popalar (POP =
Cuban Comuniot Farty),

Kagino Lath eon, Minieter of Matlenal Yeonany,
Jose Udunuss Cobol, director of the Sattonal

Inatitute ef Sporte, Fhyaleal Edueation and Recreations

According to. Rico Galan, ha spent flvo of tho elght daya vith Castro at

seo and Gostra diseussed hia vinit to tha Soviet Union ant his talka with

Nikita Khruchshey, Preslor of tha Soviut Undon, Rieo Calan furticr sald

that the Cuban Govermaent is now making an effort to inprove its relations

with the Hextoan Government, wnich, according to Rico ‘alan have bean
theso afforta by tha Cuban Govermuat vill be wade not only
at tho diplonstia level pat also "at higher lovala,” Cuba vill also try
to Suprove ita relations with Hrazil, now that, tha rasilian polttieal

neglected.

situation iu

als,

CS cory

SECRET
a Pua sion DAs2y

:eUTION,

j
H
i
i
j
!
i
‘
H
Hy



3.

Ae

Se

skcret it ae
§O KAUIGH DLITE
co oe

Mee Galan saij that he recetyed tho t-preaston upon Nia arrival at the
Mexieo City airport, that jauienguro returning froa Cuba vere boing
troated vith mora conrtesy, “Aloo Galan returned to Mexteo on tha asne
flight as Josguis Setouulon de Armaa, nev Cuban Amtassador to Maxtoos

Ho gaid that the internations] room at the alrport vas opened to licrnandos,
and that.he was met by Joaquin Bornal, Anatatant Ghiof of Frotocol of the
Mexican Ministry of Foreign Rolations and received cartain other con
eidorations vaick are unccamon for an arriving ambassador,

Nico Galan aleo said that whilo in Cubs ho saw Dr, Mrique Gabrora Costo,

proninent leftist Xexioan cardlologiat.? Kico Onlan anid that Cabrera vas
happy in Cuba, that he enjoyed prestige and the estean of the Cubans, and
that he was doing his best with the moans available to him.

Rico Galan said be planned to write a serios of four or five artionns.
Hie artioles will deal with oubjocte of "thooretical interest" and of
tho problems the Gsban Government ia having carrying out the parposea
of its revolatica, : .

Eigld Gomenta: -

1, It was reported previously that Rico Galan had agreod to go to Cuba
to interview castro concorning his trip to the Soviet Union. He left
Mexico on 25 Nay, (Cf, HHM7326),

2. “It was also reported previously that Cabrera went to Cuba in Ootoder
1962 as a guast of tho Cuban Governrent, Cabrora was dismissed from
the Mexioan National Cardiological Institute in July 1962 because of
hig leftist astivitlos. (CF. Hi-6902).



14-00000

PASAPORTE

AROLONG A FAVOR DE

_MISTOR PICO CALAN

A OUIN AcOMPARA Sy ESSE

Aare Pasarcata ne WTLO @ Tie TADATIOIA
SSTERMATUBAL @ STEER EEE O au Had

SD Pansareer nas eUR FELT A agp CRAVEN,
SSARETETONS oF RED ENOTES TY

vse gaesrore 1 Og sabe 1S Fr an teisin
i ai



40000

FILAC Ont s
. tn as
asm, LIS NTS
sce RAO
ee CAFES i
ero... EXTRECAO
Res antennas |

_ NUGun al
Ruan Oe naCirTO. . |

anna
re.’

Ce SE

. : ki ; [ Cl ge

cores tale sserg

5 SE eer re
WH Pawson ne-te cnce ee 5

BERRA POHRDR ERR, BEBE.
a Bet



REFRENDOS REFRENDOS

ranean, Dette $20 08 sexta. owrecnes $ 20,90

REFRENDACO o_o REFRENDADO cy

BC Loe G8rAD0S UN.DOS MEE EC ANOS LN,



BUEKO Pan iHaS

Pay Ya obs
were oF or Siftonbe
fans 4 Beg aS



EMBAJADA DE CUBA EN MEXi

bexico, D Qe (a 2H eth
BUENO PARA TRASLROARSE A CUBS

o
lod ada

Beldadelatedas



400600

ADVERTENCIAS AL TITULAR

Presdatene evte pasaperte al sobeitar ote sogen.

Eo cae te perce  denineren de evte peaapere
interremte dedera comya-cer iamedintorente
he y lag circenstencies en gan Sabtene ererrida:
als Secretaria Ae Relaronen Neteriores ds Neate
oleate meriene mils poling poe Bae

ten de pelos,

vinjas per los paises p haste te
ferba que te intinue em la pogice Ae on oe Te
fromian catrespuntiontes, Lar ofi-teae evpeditoren,
podren nutorinarlze pare otrue paises 7 refreesty cee
tan periods de tumpe tgual of orgie!
crecedide.

Ea besaficto do Ins marieanin qve 9 nd
go ol extraany, la Ley bo foruitade o for Céomoten |
de México parm lerscar arias dnl legwere Chr
ceaetenants #f rectetente y resccostmenen do Rirh,,
patrmeres y masts de lee westerns raider
€R vas respactiay jarisdiedsten Mie inonensete
frvicds ao Ge gran etilided ten qm tenet |
feowrr Hea procima Qrveawitmla eA gp de esctt (
Crmliaces, . po

fos eentinrss gon
flab ete pe



RICO GALAN, VICTOR :

201-336474 050-004-11

SEX M 383 : nae co7650"
25 FEB 63

cut MEXICO wEKI-03992°

Cc?
re POSSIBLE RESIGNATION OF sual FOR
POLITICS, MEX] MARXIST PUB FEB 63.

2406909

fone
ver

_ 1408909

gggcoge oo o
Te ny
aanaaaneaangaazaniiae
999399333992992992933
a Gaeaeeageaas aeeae
SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
$S65G5 BCCEEEESES O66
Pee MPEP EEEERREREEEL
Qennasgeaaaneegersas
Q1gggeg Qheggasgs age

fae


one of the. attached wao' taken fros .
LICOOKT- ince 17 Julye..The
irliste,

od
information in paregraph two'was taken f roa the LIFIRE

extwa agency

i,
b = Uetoadquarters (JHPUCK) 1+EMB, FAC, MA, NA, AA, 1283
LeWAVE ene Ger LA
3eFiles becuarmadabennataieiaciaad

pa 187 =
sone



i FIELL. INFORMATION REPORT
SI NS ca, en Monk

AWALUATION OF SOURCE A Compieten
‘earrye of deubiel Menety ors. ‘everest
tested eourcoah

1. ontned by othe pee ne rasan amen Probahiy tree, 3. Pouuby tun, 4s Dowbitul 3 Probably
tgvt, Documentary: Based on original Gocee=t. 7

aR

APPRAISAL OF CCUTENT
false. 6 Comnot be ped

COUNTRY” Guba/Mextoo REPORT NO, 46770
SuMECT Travel of Victor Rioo Oalan, DATE OF REPORT © 5 October 1962)
Naxlean Mérsiot, tortiba i

NO, OF PAGES 2

e REFERENCES

4

27 July to 2 October 1968: -

national 1 bération holenents ‘rabidly

antieUnited: States, prosCuba, Commnist front, plans to write
@ political biography on Fidel Castro Rus, Communist Primo Minister

of Cuba, Rico Galan, who ‘proposed the idea to the Cuban Govern»
went and was accepted, will spend two months in Cuba working on

the projects
on 2 October Rico Galan left Mexico for Habana, Cuba, on Cubana .
Airlines. He carried Mexican passport Noo 51115, with a Cuban
courtesy visas

O:STRIBUTION



, poe ae tenon pt

There 49 a good chance that Nextco nay participate

“ Fatth Inductrizl Pair in Srna, Czechoslovalita, in Septenber
“953. The ann: aeeeee was uae by Dr ee var Papeee

lo in Europe, Dr Vera Bianco hye isteroiee with
watrdaliots and goverment offietals, arong

tant Trade Minkstur of Czechovlovakta,
eat interest in Mextee. (Mexico City, La Prensa,

eczente with Cubs
1. Soviet Courters to Cuba .

Ryssian digionatic courters Sergey Hulixey and

. Palitoy lett Nexies City for lavana recsntly ina
Cutins de Avisclen atrliny plane ona spectel and very
racret misston. yf ware sarsying several bulky Driofesses,
oh

7

confiscated.
to Yavana, in

a nesi¢ conposer, and theta
Clextee City, EL Universal, P23 62)

ist Propaganda Confiacated

“Police, at the airport
dof “ay Alverto “acrigat

du pasohlets from three
y fren Havana on
onto Réear

MALL ADsolve
atrte Oo Due:
Txselster,





Heated

a Misia ¢o

wnjciu dincutie igus, ¥ nw
ee ie Nur sea, un “Gate
He tine bs
roi Gia

deinigen Yue

A petain 2 Sam dace dibs

esha ie

re tae

Ye a dinilo sutton lap he puudldo Vor, se, va te
Jpteren, bat mai

1 eaMetls
beh
: Por ora pare
Jon con eMe ba, pre ui jaeseude th EL
TMOCRIO Mie Hiceadbity wad vost fete BO
cat he 8,

Pare uae

il zebicinw de la isep
pata vitor

ue Us ptincnela ethene
Bs Shiie

cralicrotcpurne te ule
Ge MAL simon iy aceusientathowed |
que ieier vb Rasen
de" deveatar a

Ldlotin, €0*  ateardiustava Drae Ordad,

de jo diwurady |.

pistes eveturt, ae
nr even) an
ene be clan te

selioeed vn.
presilttee

ulead Geta, tic
Ibien, ue ei einai’

vad, Seuss
YA ao Cate Merton
Guewrais .
rd ted objet eustae
widens wtesb be aN
da te Ravers agentes
ene) nibiiiw Liveten, Cro
Us eltue eet peciodinn
Sypadieb Viewer es Gar
reactor Ge han ree
ais “Bem vies: cuss 1”
“oy “Bite eucettaten
cesos pare ‘Fos, Que seer
We haley anaes nOchatay
secee ta truniee “Cie”
Fa giieten tiveco-muslea bs prez.

if plone te el exe
Kelaibis euesinone:
ante fa

‘que tw soddese ,
migeds

om tyules, ey heer
Ws rout hiichin™
naw face que Here
Tho ules tacts acteras pate
ta werar a pl

hs 665 eC
ie OD MeO
et tay Ce Hise

lus sunedades y,
mente, en usa

tof

poser We fucreae tale) - fo eenally a ;
Bb goiter é ¢ ‘1 ws Y BN

pauten burg

ie es un bu

1a pax:



abe La Pwe we

bai sue
o baijties, pose:

Qa Gh tree ays chi jas
Er yu mar,

de Ge las sitet Ge Mase
Mes jackin venepujated oe
Lunas Ge foaeitn
ota strs eran,

cacy Cate
Fee ke
Jo" ines

bere anta eh

reas
race ied lea
Bie. giro) reer eumnina eae
t :

Va, pues, gan enveriene
este fawkntentos
coin

2 pues,
Le ConUa CA Tatas stan aprltie

J respecte: fo Ure
1 puede Hates 208

Jos guy us
2 Ubi

Deda rev pn pene
jeitto ea "la weds
ecu, HER BON
fGets jenerales y entone
+ cOulY se la Gute plea
ale fos he

“uts9 itolando évei-
wor Meaiva. Gis- he grave 5
felefyy Sie Oyareiyey, ot i
Keveady 2 he we terrane} |

Que ee asic mucntra wet
acon en elcursa tae
st er ay

fa daca!

tea y me. Fea

aie es i

ue es Io Gue ciaa h

De mess ue, re

LARUE sen Ao ae Nor. ple tovtime- i i

se eate tee Ghia, porque las riieay 1 tes de chats :

oujeto marke SOF aEauReAe  becuss ese Alster dl garare #

cele poe

alge que uste-

pueden suber per 208 fa bea

6 miejor cleo, 2
oxpres Rag ttelaresy feu
iE ha sido tong ners
exeiusiva resp eonctenci
fy producto «

Seiebiite, — trabajasee

maha Ue
ssearasls Ka I

Inastea G8
en primer Saye
nt jack prucicet

eo ane xe Is

o he visto en.
restad ik

sey ora shai
fae Gen Guide ccuramie

Give tie
Sean cm

eh donde ¢

fe barge oe bead
Perea at

eeu



1410000

4 bl
Meni at as
Stratiates dhe

toe tate
Meseano, “lo salude enim

s€racia dutentica de vinéris

a a i :
CUya Brandess inaph Republica ner, *
Fa a cuantos amass hy Nbeatad', 25 ninutus despues inn
+ Este viaje. digo, “Cntr: cl fetta aucuria de una

Beer at BNES Anteis oF Presstente mest
Garg el Fecorrido Wel avropuerto a is ces
vatre nuet de “México. a 12 ki

rebentada cooperacion cons tructiva kilémetros de distancia,

true puctlos™

: i onde se taal det .
tiles Je person: lo saludaron efusivamente. Dagche ania dd, eb aqae
: oS . Isidro Fabela, hac i .
An A
rcticd A

pened ¢
Bteaves de sus

for titud,
Vives MZcccol
OZ... seedets Primers pte, 4 Ive Medco

. S¢ reunticion
Viene do'la Primera Pig. A los mas deat:

pene e
: dos juris. micinbru dy lana icdadde oa
: fegtullos mexicanas, Derecho Internacinnah, a
Heaiesnos y satvutareios, han eoinel ido en te dg F1 Salvador, coronet Julio A. Rivera, durante su Bemeros oe Sociedad Asblleronatin iupors 181 oe .
su fervor porta hibertud y en te licha por canquis-  discursa de bienvenids, . ee echo In peaeetiain ¢ binte acto fas ciscentes oe wee
lara. Sa hemos comest.te en el Pusado-con mayer «© Momentos antes, al descender cl mandstariome. paeysme Hegnaal que Personalituden; Tieencla-
fara debetans estar unutos on el parvcuir pore sxi¢ane el avion que to puso ensuclosalvadorefio, el preside el licenciado Ati fo Miguel Ateinan, sena. ne
acrecentar 13 subidaridad y 1a edoperacion entre Presidente Rivera ro:np{o él Protocoloy sedirigio has-  guel , Aleman, por un aoe” Kacyuicl toddta, ol 10) .
ap.bes pueblos. 1 ta Ja -eseaterilla del avién para recibir eon un. ehrazo periode de dos aiios, sefor Fulton Freeman, ¥ 71
: al fefe del goblerno mexicano, Lamultitird concentes A nombre del ex presi. embajartor de In Bae .
. AXUDATS LOCULTURAL | cl acropuerto rempio en actamaciones que {ue gente de Mexica, hizo uso Untdos en nuccing peas,
Orden esas momentaneimerte por los honores de dela palstra el tieenciada —ticencindo Mans -
Solidaridad y concen gon Brecisamente ordensnza y 21 salvas «a honor del flustre visitante, Luis 6. Sevilla, quien rra, funcloniehe at .
Milesteas mis alt oC neS ened stevens wie it Antes de abandonar aeropuerto, el Jpandata, Chall fon merites Profe- ciuiana te Halerta yo ‘ .
jet len “aes sockales, politieas, rio mevleana y sins acennpsany ¢$ reme:sbraron eet pea cnt Chante Put ees ae
cub vate md Bele patitonal:Cceuehiir ig mene gh nias canciones sonties del seive Robert Se Uy Rate, Bie ae wo,
VS Ammer lea Justa, de. thteryictadas to's un yusipo deny sachis, De hee Ox do Mauls G. for ita, be ; .
cate tas pi paaipe a HS. pol Peak! ihe tiad Sedan sant eisato a ton 2 iis ¢ bo Mada dian trey Aa
ve ente, sin siolen.  10:8o horas. sn | Nerspqee Atpuche, Heeris a ,
~ ADEE ee Sete tepleg, tates .2corc4a pg laseall has Leyes ao Vio ‘Thins Aduns . .
Went vines al idarnos erecicn: el pueblo se reu: 92 lo beyodelteayecta para igtaut San & Werlor mayor del Cas ae
fen. ites an enn 2 ine eb te Nurs es ef inbite dir al piso de fa-cnmitiys, Tos dos mandatacios “ite wale ! + nal de Turkmo y
sod ante tos hedees pin ton cmendese mejor, devan'de pie at: vn aulomovil newe0 desea. ‘LVADOI ene. Peesonasmas, |
Enlatconsines porttiaos b cer niche nis de blato, Las-cerp papel pleada estan de tos is x ket .

. dhe fo egae busta ahora bes vs hecho para fustilecer ceaficics en Nuv ‘ “hea amistad y erring! sido, imeciiies Califican do 7
we ta tnda Us. tieseion © intensifiear Jos dos pucbles.. Hcruce delas ealles e053 enpital solea'n fens Stites 2 :
eNoomerciade it Kaitos. - critronmericina, fos pastes, ventanas ¥ escaparatcs : a Mis 48 vico el

: " anes eniwntcucute elevar cb nivel de de lus ‘com ities. luctan nuestros eres pairios yx eOrdanings PASO .
: sida de niestras puchlos, que con just | Krandes y pogteidas fotografias del Uresidente Diaz aes de egos es -
“: ban y bbs ttad: cultura’ y Mee Ordaxy de su sedora-e<page, : Haves de ta ei tad ino. Viaje de GDO
did Disponemoude recursay propias, de ticrra . ‘ . . meutns slespues de qe GUATEMALA tansn
netasas. de voluntaat dispuesta a fabrar un porve- tustelnve « Viene de Wa Page ted en eb agt py i nte dul ATES ALA AA 1S
Bir mos justo pare todos, Araunistas.., ‘ ee . Pongo el Mesidentesulio . 14 prensa guatem steca
Ha Uegate Ta hora del estierro conjunte y de a . : . aAdulberto Rivera lehabia Malo que da actual vie 7 a.
Ja cooprracien hontadat . “Mex de tia ctudad, Yaqui Gatin vive asitado, tee dado tah nvenida, sita a Centro.mnerica det part iy de Big ot hy ”
. _ . . ea8t, me tenia qite’ arras- Piotucclonés de sts ar- AL ag ceer esta dis. Peestdeste mexicana ue Few wears pe te
EL VALOR DELA AMsTaD.. - tr - Hicwlos chreutaron enire titclin el Manditaio Me. Gf WO Ding Oubacaftan con eyertuma awe we FL
; sete eaten: “ae, uene.ahora siyame fos reheldes guatemalte.  Xlexno expreso: ielonal amis. ‘
Canfio en que mi estancia enéste palsticrmane desnido de iitivamente, 0%, con los tes, mes ME esposa_y yo apra- abre nuevas post. :
Palle Bromes para atiancar fa cordintitad te jiiva ef pron Maa, viva Sine Perindista men. decemos como una gan de denarrotly in. 7 Q
Puesteay Republican y anivar, mediante actos uric. ta revalucionsocialiotade © clanailo y otros szentes, Aistineion cae nueva ha- a Ion patios del me nor, .
bem stra nt 1 fe WWE depositamos en ef Vator Atnertes! Htasta iueyo, rantiene Eviresha eons BUF te te fata ane os merende Ae ta ee
saleapreta * corn panerast* : as tk pha ablertasus mace EL matutine ““Tnpse. F poy
(84 uilespreto a todos tos mexieanos al de. €° 1 Labor cubveretya fete te srecgtitle Coma. Ne sa, al entre! to calltiea ile Chink temacnaa : .
sear af unteépide purtle nal cidure fin’ praspecridad deanitacion delecmane, 7 Tor iene at, cl ae | llave no que co" el comunicady con, {tee fenindecea yg
Thacenad 22 RUA Cm Ta gunk pacer tice Galan se pteme de Guatemala Gee Aecto, cma matah yee
Hisimo schor Presidente:

fon

ae fy JUNIO sobie fa visita de
wenttvo tambien en ye periizente tomar to. Selor Alcalde, sine que lo Die Onde a Guaten ads
webibeerioy tice On azsesivns es. an ined necesa. ee re eee subeays como peste
rausted culos Sixes. publletos Ghee que stiraran ta @¢ Muy hovdas rave Yo edule te dicho. dan:

€n bas revtstas donde tra. seuridad del mandatas Qe e8 anplia, sincuea y ita cd Beets dh,
hala, y en toseuates.cen tty mevteano y de tos contitnente torespon converte come
aie deren Rulembro ale Sus enmitts Mule por ber mevicuios Cet Movies y Cutem
Na. docante su visita a PAU pats, Metis 5 Ja sera gstuy

a8

PTET Seceme:
e Yas patalirds tan deterente
Ubatude come Dense
el colierag y ed
secite ba tosgut shi

TO pany em eb quip ie

deny



SECRET

1. The attached passports were obtained from a sensitive
photo coverage at the airport in Mexico City of passpors of

persons arriving on all flights from Havana, Cuba,
Brussels, Belgium. (Many Soviets travel to Mexico Wia
Brussels.) The operation is conducted with the knowl

‘but is not a

Tiaison:

2. It 4s suggested that your desk review the passports
of your citizens, and sénd the copy to the 201 file in RID if j
there is one,and take. whatever other action you wish. There. .. .

“should be no dissemination of the passport and no exploitation

thereof without prior coordination with Wiy/3/Mexico and with-
out due care to protect the source.

3. Coptes of these passports and the reele have been
furnished TSD/IB therefore you should not send your copies

to them,
4, The manifests have been sent to RID/2Z for processing.
5. Any questions on the above or the attachuents should.

be directed to the LITEMPO case officer, WH/3/Mexico, mses?
or x6110, Room 33003.

BECRET



i

i
i
i

The following pages contain a translation of o talk
by Mexican journalis Actor Rico Galan. The

Yecorded on # small portable tape |
taken to the hills and played to the Guatenalan guerrillas,

‘Tuis taped talk and seven other small rolls of taped
propaganda and discussion were captured in mid October
1964 by the Guatemalan Army in a raid against guerrillas
in the Pangos area of Alta Verapsz. The identities of
gome of the names used in the talk are as follows:

Commandente Adant Marco Antonio YON Sosa, der
of the "13th of November" guerrilla movemon This is
the first time we have heard of YON Sosa referred to by

this name.

Companero Enrique: a mockingly respectful referonce
to Guatemalan Chief of Government Col. Enrique PERALTA,

The arrest of Galvan: Folipe Galvan Bartoluchi,
Mexican courier to Guatemala vas arrested in Guatemala
City in March 1964. Ho was carrying two auitcases of
comaunist litorature and records at the time, and was
himself documented ag "Isidro Alfaro Ramos".

Sterra de laa Minas: Mountain area north vest of
Zecapa; guerrilla safe area.

POT: Partido Guatemalteco ber Trabajo, tho
Guatenelen Communist Party.

Luis Turcios Liwa: Second in command of the
"13th of Noveabor" guerrillas.

Comrade Rolando: Obviously a pseudonym, Wo have
been unable to establish this man's true identity.

Pancho Villagran Kramer: Francisco Villagran Kramer,
leftist Guntomalan political leader; head of the URD Party.

Alfredo Guerra Borges: Central Comaittee member of
the Por,

Phone Ko, 23 07 92: Yexico City phono directorio for
1962 ang 1964 list this number as follows:
Vda de, Providence
pe en
Pug: A Guatemalan revolutionary party, now reiey “tide

A wusber of PGT sembors also belong to the PUR,

DIENER, Tilli Pichier



j
4
i
{
3
:

Compaiterce i
~ Thave arrived hire together with Conandante Adah after a seriee of
hardships and of many delays owing to @ mmber of reasons which he can <

explain in detail even better perhaps than I could.
I have deen making these tripe without a visa because the. compaiiero

Enrique seems not be overly fond of me, and motivated by two reagons,

One of then 1s to try to put my shoulder o little to the wonderful

etruggle you are carrying on, by a reportage on the querrilles. The other
Teagon was my concern over a number of cireunstances, and basically the
arrest of Calvan in Guatemala,

So I came with the wish primarily of giving you the itema of infor-
mation I had, and partioularly to Comandante Adan. I make this clear
because there has been considerable speculation to the effect that I was
being sent by the Cuban comrades and even that my opinions wre not mine

ot all but the expression of their opinions, In fact, some comrades

suggosted to me ,the advisability that I should mention thio here,

I refused, of course, for a basic reasont because St 49 not a0,
T did not coms here as arepresentative of the Cuban conrados, shon I have
not seen since Peis sek none of these problems had arisen, or tf
they had arisen they saa not acquainted with then, or if they were
acquainted with then thay did not tell mé about them. So, I havo no idea
what, their opinion on the subject may be. Consequently, all I can do ia
speculate what might be their thinking to the limit that I om aware of
their general ideas; ani then, since I know what they think about the
liberation movements in Latin Auerica, I can imagine what thoy night

think with rogard to these problens,


|
|

But you alsd can saagitie that, etnoe you also know whet thay think.

_So thare would be.no sense to my trip here. if ite purpose ware to teli.

You something that you may know perfectly well. what I have stated here
has been on my own exclusive responsibility and as a result of my (word
“unintelligible) working alone, :

T have told the Comandante thet in my opinion there have arisen hare
a nusber of problene which have abjective roots but which have become
somewhat complicated and distorted to tha axteht of leading to a situation
that may be dangerous in the future, that may convert the Trece de
Novienbre inte just another group, another sect, that may therefore
isolate slightly fron the massee in gonoral or at least from a number of
strata of the paople whose support in the etruggle is important,

On the international plane I have sean the importance of the Trece
de Novienbre as a synbol of the struggle for nationa? Liberation not only
of Guatemala tut also of Latin America, and the importance af Comandanto
Adan as the edtof or head of that nucleus, The reportage I urote on it
Just a yoor ace as aucessnful partly owing to the ecliatoration of the
Cuban comrades and partly because of the natural curiosity aroused by the
gubject, It was reproduced by nowepapers in the United States, in Buropaq=
for instance, L'Estrelle de Paris reprinted it; it was reprinted by tho
Rew Statesnan of Londons nowspepers of a broad but important left wing in
Europe-eI eron have a magazine from New Zealand which rertinted tho reportage,

By that I convey to you the importance which was attributed to the
moveront, I hava mot mentioned Cuba or China, of course, You mow that

the interview was published by Hoy, the organ of the FURS, and in China

it wno reprinted by tho Party organ, Prople's Daily,
2



ries of letters from various countries, ant

I have also received
4a ay travels I have noticed bow people would ack me with enormous interest
about your struggle. In Kexioo I pretty nearly told then in jest that it
seom>. that they regard me as the omer of the Guatenalen revolution
because every tine that some news item or rumor reaches then all the
revolutionary people code and talk to me on the telephone or send for me
to find out what my opinion ta, os though I had a.direct wire to the
Sierra de les Mines there to be informed of every last thing that ocours
to you.

J tell you ali thie in somiwhet prolix detail because I am afraid
that you, buried to some extent here in the mountains, may to avare of
the historic role you are playing at this moment. And I olao want to
tell you that here in Guatemala, where I have been far two weeks--although
I was here covertly and thet, of course, limited my activity--I hava
nevertheloss been able to see the interest, devotion, and snthustasm
with which the guorrille struggle is being followed.

My opinion ia that the guerrilla movement in Guatemala has definitely
tukon hold end that it will end only on tho day of victory, I want to
toll you aleo recently I fomd out that Comandante Guevara thinks exactly
tho same, A comrade in ths Mexican Communist Party, a monber ef the
Contral Comittos and nawenan, visited Cuba, A close personal friend
of mina, ho visited Cuba and had an interview with Che mainly on economic
nattore, together with other Mexican newsmen, ‘They talked for a leng time,
and hon they finished Che asked then a number of questions about Mexico
and then they asked him about the liberation movementa in Latin America,
Che told thea that in his opinion the tro countries in which tho aovemont
wao most eolid and firm deopite every difficulty ware Ouatopala and Yono-

3


suela, :

T think for this reason that you must view your problegs not as
another group cerrying on polenice with other groupe but to sone extent
from the height in which you are placed, even physically. You aust
Fealise that the difficulties there have been are due basically to the
fact that the courades in the POT have long delayed turning into deeds
their own idess oa the struggle. They have aot forth a lino to the effect
that aspects may not be discussed but that (phrase unintelligible] correct.
Tho 1l-point: resolution of Decembor vhich places the armied struggle and -
especially the guorrills phase at the core of the revolutionary struggle
deans to m to be correct in general, But they have had many difficulties
because there have been debates, obscurities, somo of them perhaps did not
underotand that or were oppogeda<I do not knov, I do not have nany details,
But of course it has not been possibles thoy have not found it possible or
else have lacked the capability to devote their activity to the armed
atruggle, Consequantly their participation, which there has been--we cannot
deny ity T think it would be unjust to dany the participation of tho PGT-—
hes been the participation of a rearguant, of support, Thay have leat
cadres here in (retabad? ) and elsewhere , suffered tha consequences of tho
struggles some comrades of tho POT are actively persecuted--but always in
connection with aupport activities,

I believe your role is to drag them into a nore active participation
in tho strugrle--rot to fight then or fight them only to the oxtent that
euch a fight may lead thea into the battle and not occasion a split, In
ey opinion this 4s going to bo much easter fros now on because, altough
what happenod with the publication of tho newspapar io dangerous in oy
opinion-aand it 1a dangerous because it poses a nunber of things which



t
3
4
p
4

are not understood, you eee? and in the second place they cause @ atate
of confusion, especially among a people which is ‘not: political ly sqphistt-
cated, ag in Oustenslaw-, I think that despite those -—- those negative
things this hes been the clang of a bell; has shown the courades in the
POT the extent. to which they had committed errors md abandoned a munber
of possibilities of struggle. aa

About that I have talked to them at considerable length and have talked
to them in utter- loyalty and clarity, and they adnit that all that is taking
place ig not the product of error on the ‘part of the Trece or a bad line
of-the Trece exclusively but a product of their very own errors also.
They do assume their share of rosponsibility and I think it {e important
that you inow anf approciate that fact~-importart for this reagon, that there
might erise in sows comrades, and I am referring particularly to Rolando,
a certain lowering of morale: that he might think that he erred in sone things
and might allow himsolf to be destroyed politically. I think this would be
3 serious error, da you not? and I think 4t would be falee attitude, We must
atart fron the premise that everybody has comitted errors ami that these
errors have been commonplace everyvhere, let us reneaber, for instance,
that in Cuba thore wag in the organisation of that famous striim, the one
that failed, of April 1959, none other that a David Salvador, who waa a
Felengista, and there ws3 none other than a (Bill DeWalt?) who was an
imperialist agents and that in Cuba there were public statements of tha
26 July novement which Fidel Cestro had to disown later, and there wag
constant misunderstanding between the peopio who were in the elerras and
the militants in the cities; and thers were very esrious conflicts betwoon
the PCP and ths 26 July novesant; and there were all those paraites fron
the Escanbray Secom! Front who wers good for nothing. In short, a series
of probleas, vhich did not prevent attaining victery becouse the position

$


j
$
1
t
i

rant
: \
thoy always naintatiod ‘waa that ‘the fundamental nucleus of the 26 July,
organisation was an agerit of cohesion of the revolutionaby forces, and they
sueceeded tn polarising those revolutionary forces and succeeded in avoiding
probless, and this in the end led the revolutionary forces to victory.

With regard to this, I would like to tell you something eloei T have
never beob in favor of that attitude, very widely gororalized in Latin
Amarica, which is to say: "Well, you can 806 what Pidel did, This was
Rot done by Pidel; this was done by Fidel." I think this is abyomal error,
becawse what Fidel did he did-under very special historical Treimatances,
and what you are doing is different and has to be different. You have no

resgon at all te follow the Cuban or any other oxportence, but I do think
it 4s advisable to learn fron international experience and take advantage
of it to tho extent that it may be useful.

I say this because it seems to me that there has been here a certain
Adnalistic tendoncy to take a position above tha masses, I am referring to
the dobatea on the character of the revolution, on the participation of
tho bourgeoisie, whether tho Chinsse or the Soviets are right, and a nuaber
of questions like that, I realise very well that whon I say this you may
say that I an half out of my mind or that I ua unwilling to commit myself
to a position, That is not aor I shall try to explain my idea aa clearly ao
T can.

Hy idea 4s this: When you are struggling in a country which is highly
dovoloped, vory complicated, politically very sophisticated, whore thore is
a working class of great exporlence, politically info med, militant, whore
oven the poanants thessolves are acutely avare of their problans, thar medo
~elet us say France, let us say Italy--all those rigorous analytes of tho
cosposition of the bourgeoisie, distinctions asong various especte of that
bourgeoisie, analyses ef tho nedda of tho working clase, of tho internaticnal

6


role of tho struggle of semisclonial or colonial peoples, and so forth,
are necessary. They ore necessary because for a party, for @ group te have
author ity at hes to persuade. nusoos which have high political sophistication.
In our countries we face no such problems. We do not face swh probleas :
deceause our ‘nasoce ore thoroughly unconcerned ffon a political standpoint.
In another «=» rather, stated in better terms, more clearly and ore

accurately, they have a very elementary understanding of thoir problems.

: ‘The concern of the poasant 19 for the soils I do not think it goos beyond

that at tho moxent, I believe that if the peasant is offered land, is
offered schooling for his children, medical care, and so forth, he will not
demand any more explanations. He see no other problems,

So, when I read in Revolucion Socialista all these things, ebout the

Bolivian masses, the arued militias, it is a truly shocking confusion, And

I aay this because I know Bolivia, I have been there, I have seen their real
problems. When T sen all this about Poru, where the msadea are said to be
doing their will, with @ semifoudal goverment, it is truly --- it seem to
mo that wo aro falling into a number of questions which there 1e° no purpose
dn discussing here,
And it ia not that I: champion the abandonment of ideology. No, I think
i that you, the leaders, the people of the sentra nucleus, must atudy, aust
: read, nuat read the classics, Tha other day I heard u recording by our
comrade [Sureio?] with reference to this, and ¥ think the attituio ta vory
propor, You must have the clearest possible view, but I think it would
be mistaken on your part not to realize that if you mivance too far ahead
you will isolate yourselves trea the masees.
Aloo, and in connection with thia sam eubject, it 1s net th eam thing
7


te-face the problem of defeating a bourgeoisie such.os the French bourgeoisie, i
Witch hab Adeologiate. and has rulere of tho calitier of a De Gaulle, and to
face tie probles of defeating an idiotic bourgeoisie auch as the Guatemalan.
bourgeoisie, with a riler tke courade Enrique; t# it? In other words, the
weapon noedii to sboot down Dp aulle--to state it thus in vary simple ent
personal ternsechas to be much more long-range and such nore perfect than
the weapon required to shoot dom Peralta, Peralta can be brought dam
Just about by pitching @ rock ay him, can noe eee

This, all this tends to indicate that to exaggerate ideclogical questions
to the masses will lesd us nowhere, I have been able to observe that the
following has happened with the newspaper-eand I told Comandante Adan yea
terdayeer that those who understand it do not approve of it. And I am not
referring to the people of the PCT but to many wellemoaning poople: for
instance, to Rodrigo Asturins, who is in Mexico, a survivor of the [Cunquat?},
a wholesome follow, studious, concerned, who 1s very amious to cams here
to join tho etruggle--he was really dumbfounded at the document, Ths oom
for honorable people like Carlos (Barquessda}. On the other hand, most of
the people, the masses that do not understand it, cannot understand oll that
complicated terainology, all that obscurity, all those generalisations of
concepte that do not stinulate anybody to tho atruggio, that do not pose
actual and concrete objectives.

‘That is my opinion. I balieve that on thin point you must establish
a very akilful, very intelligent balenco between your own political training
and your dally contact with the aasses, and you will gredually be told [s10}
what the maseos must be told.

Cn this point-=I say thie rather to comrade Rolando--, putting those

8


4deas into slightly theoretical fora, it would be necessary to reread and
stody that famous document by Bao Tse-tung on contradiction, where he
explains how contradictions are gradually displaced in the evolution of
society and particularly, in a revolution, how the besic contradiction
gradublly displaces other contradictions which often are ths moat apparent
ones and are mst manifest to the masses and which all express the basic

or fundamental contradiction but express it in different ways.
So w have no reason’ to propose the destruction of the bourgeoisie. and
alienate tlie support of « number cf people who foel bourgeois. I myself,
to com’ here, was helped by petty bourgeois of this area itself, These
petty bourgeois, of course, are not the national bourgeoisie to which the
program of the POT refers, but they feel thay are bourgeois. They cennot
Aistinguish, when you condenn the national bourgeoisie in the newspaper,
they cannot distinguish between themselves and whether they are or are not.
the national bourgeoisie. Thay feel affected. Why should we alienate their
collaboration?
rf even pointed out to the Comandante cases such ag that of Pancho
yillegran pears there is no’ doubt that he is bourgsdds, a bourgoots
Adeologist and a bourgeois politician,yet he has given you his collaboration
and may give it again, What need is there to have a fight with him? Ona
must maintaii the firaness of principles, as Canandante Adan did in the
ioterview, apecify clearly the disagreements, but not picture hia as an encgy,
Tt seeas to me that on this point Coaandante Adan axpreszed the true policy,
which consisted not in daying, "Villagran to our enany because he is boure
gooin=-uhich would be the logical consequence of what has beon published
‘in the novapaper—but to say, "Ho ds my friend but I think that he Ls
aigtaken; that te ta not going to acconplish anything.® This sees to ne
)



tho Fight thing to-do. Also, the movenont is at a stage where whit it
neods 1 friends, ae See

Woll, I think I have talked good deal and rather haphazardly, but——
I wish you had arrived; I was olinging to that hope, although I knew it
was very unlikely, eince you have already delayed too long. Unfortunstely
it hag not been that wey, has 4t? So I wanted to leave my greeting to you
and some of the impressions I have of the eituation.

T econ dd something to what I have already told you. The comrades of
the POT asked me after I had boon here for quite a few daya and they had
shown na a number of things--I even think that they wanted to be sincere
becawe they also showed me tapes in which they were harshly eriticized,
in which their own cadros criticised them--they arranged interviews for me
with persons within the party who aro in digegreenent with the leedership--
in short, I wes able to get a considerably more objective picture--they
asked me for my observations and eritictona, which I gave then in 41] loyalty.

The basic criticism I believe continues to be the lack of mere active
participation in the arned etruggle and of the channeling of cadrea to tho
armed struggle,This I think continues to be ths main problem; they admit it.
In genoral I must tell you that most of my critioisms were well received

by then. :
Bee A
I oven asked for a talk with’ Guerra Borges because I thought that his

article in the International (i.e. World Marxist] Roview contained sone
expressions of opinion which were not correct, although in others it was
on the right track, He discusged it and he had a receptive attitude, and
in the and adaitted that there was somseerror, oving to the need to make

the article too condersed,
do


a ee)

Gn the point, which I think hea been posed here rather insistentiy, of
whether the bourgeoisie participates, the fenous thesis of the four classes,
in other words, they were telling me--I on referring particularly to the
comrades of the political commission, with whon.I had a lengthy moting--
they have applied it somewhat mechanically, somewhat as convention dictates,

“ag hae beon done by a majority of, the parties in countries such as this one, i

but without actually having a clear notion on the subject, ard among then
there wore argunents, struggles, and disagreements with regard to the role
of the bourgeoisie. : 4 : :

So I think thet it 4s perfectly possible to debete on this point, I
do not think that the policy should be to set out a public thesis, and even
ese a public polemic. I do not think that it is particularly important
to the struggle th&t the theory of the four classes be uphold publicly. I
do not think that, anyono wili be disappointed te ace that in thia country
there 18 4 peasontry or a proletariat ao radical and so onlightened that
it will refuse te cooperate with tho national bourgeoisie. So I think it

ie 8 coxowhat unproductive polemic.
I an also fully convinced that tha national bourgeoisie has no revolue

tionary role to play at this time in Latin America ani much lees in Guatemala,
And that it doss not depend on the theories proposed or the thinking of Guerra
Borges, or the thinking of Rubto or the thinking of anyono else... I believe
that is a fact, and facte are above all elec. And I think that the moment
that the struggle grows up, that the revolutionary power grows strong and

4s e atablished on a free territory, this will be seen still more clearly.

But I gee no reason why this should be announced a priori; that is, I do

not see why we should make the revolution in the newspopere, if it is

u


boing carried on Fry the mountains,

Now I would like to aay @ few words for our comrade Holende. They are
nothing secret, but they are things which interest hia porsonally,

Isabel 1 in Cuba. I loft 15 days ago todays that 19, yesterday, Satur-
day, it was two weeks. The day after my departure sle was to leave for Cubsy
‘by way of Buropo, of course, so she vould ‘be able to return. The trip had
already beon set up by Conandante Ouovare, end Isabel had been invited,
Dut it had not been made definite because the Cubans zove very slowly in
some things, Just after the trip of (woman's name] and the letter’ Rolando
sont me, and in view of what he waa roquesting of me in that letter--and
the difficult eituation that she was in, obviously, from every viewpoint,
including the economic one, and the my difficulties in any attempt to give
any help--I of course tried to activate the matter of. her trip, went at it
in a direct manner, and arrangements were made right away. She did not
want to go. First of all he was very interested in knowing how the aitustion

would come out here and what I would propose on my retarn, ete. In addition

she was very concerned sbout the health and the morale of comrade Rolando,
So she did not wart to go, and I had a rathef herd tine persuading her.
At last I euccedgeds I showed her that in any evont Rolando in my opinion
would have to devote som tine to his treatnerit, Whsther this was done in
Cuba, of Mexico, or Czechoslovakia, sho would be in 8 position to accompany
hinywhon ho left he of course would be notified in Havana, and [from there)
ehe could get in touch,

In any event, if comede Rolendo decides to go via Mexico, I want to
give hin my telephone number 0 he can locate me right away. He cen use
the nage Rolando. Hy aumber 19 2307 92. Me will find m thdtup to 1000

or about 1930 houre (several worda unintelligible}. So if he goea clandes-

na can talk to me, carefully, of course, as the

tinely and hae any problen
TS ye Ril it

teed tae


phone is undef surveillance, He can use the mano Rolando and address mo

fn the fantliar form ["t6"],08 an old friend who has coi in fran the

provinces, Tton I shall look for him and try to find a way to eolve the :

problens he may have. i
As to this nstter of Rolando's health I think it 19 very iaportent

to discard the "thoory® that 4t 12 nothing serious, ete., which ho hinself,

to spreading about, I do not think thie eituation can be allowed to remain

indefinitely, with him in poor hoalth, I have talked about this to the

comrades in tho POT here, although {t looks ae though they are not very fond
of him for the time being--and of course that makes sonse--and they have

X have also asked Comandante Adan

I think it

promised to take care of the matter.
as commander-in-chief to do somthing about the problem.
would be useful, do you not? (phrase blurred].

Weli, that ia all.for the time baling. I hopo your meeting will be
successful, I hope that the difficulties will be overcomo, and that this
situation will be taken advantage of to restapo all things and te give new
drive to the struggle, I think the experiencas acqaired can be very
weful--for instance the experience here of Comandante Adan and the boys

with the peasants and the plan to organise them and occupy lands. I

think 4t can be developed into ever more perfect forms, Of course that
directive of occupying lands, given here in practice, is a provocation which
can result in tho poasanta! being massacred, but when it ip done in a
Planned manner, in a way that the guerrilla can offer them protaction and
in which they ean be taught to protect thenselves, ag in the caso that has
happened bare-aI think it can be a firetrate revolutionary factor.

T think you ought to give special attention to these things—-and

bbove 811 elve is the problea of unity. If on the one hand you do aot feel

»



j
i
i

you ate.in possession of the truth but on the other hand you do not feel you
ore victins of tho posessors of the truth--I say this for Comrade Rolandos=
Ithink you can accomplish a gteat change in the outlook and give a great
push to the struggle, You have to imow, be aware of, have a clear idea that
the situation to the FOT 19 at this tine rother good. A nuaber of factcie
have contrituted to this, including, for example, people who are attecked
‘in Revulucton Social ista,.such as the PUR. The PUR has hed a very clear and
woll-defined attitude, very positive, consisting in declaring to the POT that
they were for unity at all tines, but on the basis of its boing real unity;
that 4s, on the basis that they would, in every way possible, continue
collaborating with the guerrillas at every mment. I think that in the base
organizations of the POT this attitude hae been brought forth.

So, there 1e nowhere that I can vee ery real reasen for a break nor the
desire for a break on the part of anybody. The problems that havo cate up
can be discusset as botwnen equals, clesrly, and they can bo a positive
factor, become a positive factor of inpotua fur tm otruggle, eliminating
everything that fo a burden or an error or a provocation,

I an pending 2 cordial greeting to both, those I imow well os a result
of oral expressions and reccrded tapss--this employment of tape recorders
dnaxtrenoly useful—wend whoa I would have liked very auch to hug personally.

So long. i


[
|

all of you.

{Same min who recorded the above continues after « blenk apace on the
tape.) seein the firat plece ... Rolando oo, said that he 19 of course ess
trip ... Hextco ... in excellent health ... I sa him. departure fen Mexico
ooo very few days, 3 days os. took som photographs of both but Iwas unable
to bring them because I left for hore so. he was afraid I might have diffie
culties with I traveled with a lady who posed as my wife oo. photos see
T could not tring thém ... Rolando... also I was deleyed seriously the other

night when I was coming ... the way 49 long but it 13 oss «
“There ts somsthing else you might 1ike to know ... I have had many cine
tacts with him ... of course bia attitude 4s still ... feels very bad eee
also: this becomes more serious owing to the situation ... that worries him
very much becauso .., 2 lotter to his wife ... some psychological trouble,
nerves ... I have tried ... he did not send greetings because ... I remember
hia attitude on the entire struggle, but I think ha 45 «+.

it was then advisable ... send him’ a meszage by this sane mens of recorded
tam. Ihave Py serene of standard size, not portable ss. if you pre-
pare a tape recording to tell himclearty and definitely ... decision, you
can oend it to m 4, [Voice trails off.]

[Recording 1s now of conversation among several men.)

eee they all sent letters asking that 5.0.3, to see.

ess in the morning, and that Firulin was hore as resident ...

ass aro agreed, that there are tactless people ... minimun salary to
give the person enough to live on, pay for housing, oat, pay for his chil-
dren's education ... sliding scale of wages .., money s.. if life 1a inexpensive
ase wages of 80 centavos for the poasant 4.5 oF 50 se. plantains ... she
understands about that ... that BS ... minger ... children's education...

ass oliding wage scale ... minimus wages ... talked about “salerio vital

1s



ninimo,” which io what a fanility needs to support iteelf at today's cost of
Living levels. That, I can discuss a5 minima wage... Those are elogand '
for the struggle against capitaliem. Capitalism is incapable of solving the- i
problems of the masses, That is the basic problem, 1
eee the worker gets 1.74 a day eee does not pay for housing, That has
to be assured because ... workers of the"frutere" [UFOO, United Frult Company)
do _ pay for housing, or electricity; that is, the only thing that he pays
for 19 s+. they give hin food cords... the only thing that the peasant «+.
"frutera” .., retirement 12 44. of else they give hin nothing, blackbal) htia
+ lost his indermity 0. e+. the peasant struggling for botter wages eee
[zte. Cre man does most of the talking, about the relative situation —
of the worker with reyerd to the UPC), the union, and independent farming

as to earnings, benefite, etc. Theyengege in an argumontatave comparison

of the treatzent of the worker by the UFCO and the railroad company. Toward

the end the discussion leads inte the potentisl for revolution among the

former and present workers of tha UFCO.)

[After @ blenk space there 1s a lecture on the Cuntomalan situation
from its origins, starting with a detailed account of Columbus voyages, Spain's
exploitation, the plunder of tha gold ani riches of America, and the enslave-
nent of the natives. The lecturer then shifte to present tasks of revolution.
‘The intelligible pointe to be gleaned on this are as follows:]

"The main function of the guerrilla 1s to disrupt the regime, the
capitalist system of private ownership.” !The'Wisrupt the system” point
ig mate also at the end aa the gist of the lecture,] We must keep digging
at the roots while shaking the trunk to cause it to fall. The newspapers

declare that they are not allowed to publish interviews with guerrilla

ub

é


i
1
i
‘

fighters, etc, Strikes are more frequent. The spirit of rebellion and
disregard of law is spreading. We must encourage and exploit it.

* Many people still think that the guerrilles are only supposed to kill
soldiers, That is mistaken. We must get to the people and encourage their
Tebelliousness and opposition to the governnent, which is everywhere evident. ;

The situation is deteriorating. The goverment of Peralta is not operating
well, She guerrilles are playig an important role because they are (feeding)
the people. They are not simply fighting; their role also 1s to solve

problens for the people, to solve social difficulties for the people,

We must find out why the peasants do not respond the way they should
to the guerrilles, There is atrength for us and for the people in a close
relationship, Thousands are watching us md what we do. In the villages ve
are welcomed because they realize we are fighting to solve their problens.

{Brd tape 1 = begin tape 2 } i
Whan the revolution is over, wa are all going to solve our problems, the
problens of all, not just of a few.

The struggle is going wells the government must be kept aharply conscious
of us, Sometines it seems no progress is being made, but fron the standpoint

of the revolutionary struggle it ls being made. The thing 1a not to be dis-

couraged but to be steadfast, For overy 20 that the enemy kills, 100 will
rise up.

[Quakity of recording deteriorates so badly for a long atretch after
this that summary is not feasiblo, aa all crucial names (if any) and words
era unintelligible. Thent) Strikes must be encouraged, because strikes

go against the capitalist syston, andwhat we vant 1s to destroy, to replace
the capitalist system, We want the means of production to be in the hands
of the state controlled by the workers, for the benefit of all. The
vv :


function of the guerrilla is to disrupt the regime, the social systen, The
Tevolution will continus for a long time, There is no way to stop it short
of victory. (Occasional coaents by the other two or three participants

had been beard, More conments follow, atl unintelligible as above.) '

* [A period of silence is followed by a series of recorded greetings, let~
ters, other messages, short speeches, .and songs, including mention of names
and identities which are unintelligible The recording 4s poor, distorted,
full of echoes, Upon the conclusion of thie special section, there is
a notable improvement in the tape quality, as reflected in the following

pages.)

* except for Marcantonio or Karco antonte. Yon - .
Y 7



Here ends the taps (recorded) ‘by comrade {Galeni}. [We appreciate }the
material aid, the songs, the greetings, al) of. which make us firmer in the
druggle ani demonstrate that we are going well, that 4f the struggle was
@aewhat-linited in the beginning it was because of lack of a clear program, —
of a line and of a program [several words] for which we are fighting. [ The}
last few wards of comrade Rolando refer to [word], tm to the takeover of pover,
although he does not mals clear yet, at this time, the power: for whom, to
do what, but comrade Rolendo [has a claarness|which vo took to be emotion
(toward?} tho opening of the strukgles for the socidist revolution, I can
make no coment in this regard from the content of thio tape, but (several
words}.

Before I say farewell, there are two pointe T was forgetting. By this
courter we are sending No. 29 of [one wrd] Interne _ Containing an
article about the false Communiam of the Russians and its hiatorio les~
sons to the wrid. It is very important that the article be read, studied,
end discussed: there, because it will be material not only for our meoting
but for further strengthoning us in this line and in this program, Rich
experiences [can] be gotten from it, so that we [words] some of the thinga
pointed out here by the Chinese words} tho decay of the Russia Revolution
represented by Xhrushohey as the inheritor {continuador} of Stalin's bureaus
cratic line,

Also, Iwull like to read this note to yous T do not Imow whether you
have recsived it, We, after my return fron [word] [dacided] to call a
meting of the [FAR], Ke sont ¢ message to comrade (Erlinio}, to [Juan
Chaccn}, and to [Maurigao]. Nobedy showed up then, After eight days wo
again waited at the meeting place and (Magricio Jshowed up, Refere Kauwricio

whe ve

se Gd Thad



arrived [Dondonitaf] took this note te us, which I wuld like to tead. It
is dated 21 Soptender 1964. It 49 @ note which [Juan Chacon] sends to comrade
Adan, end. at reads ag follows .
: Compafioro Comandantes I reiterate te you and the comrades eur
fraternal greeting and our wishes that you will (word) in a revoe
_ lutionary mannar for the good of the country, This is to ask you
to iasue instructions for a mec ing of the titular leadership of the
{PAR]. For that I shall go the place to which you may call ms. I
make this request because here the substitute command that had been
operating aince the event at [Siapa] ceasel to operate at all for the
last thirty days or longer. Also because since you, comrades of the
Troce de Novienbre organization, publicly expressed your{vord] toward
us Communista, there have arisen problema which must be solved if unity
ja to continus, At a meeting of the titular command, with you in
attendance, it shall be seen whether the problem: arisen can be
overcome or vhether they are golng to leave us disjointed [desartt-
culddos], aa w are now, with reference to the aattora of major
importance in ow movement. Incidentally, the task asgigned to
the comradea as vpocil responsibilities, are being carried out, 60
that the (FAR] [has beon} opsrating in practice, However, it is not
onough foreach to carry his iumdiate tactical responsibilities,
Hattere (in prospect, or of perapactive) have to be attended to, and
these in the last fow monthe, as I have vaid, have not been attended to
with tho proper autherity and have been completely abandoned during
the last month. Fraternal gree. ing.
[Abancere Norit Kan?]

Copy to Arsando and to Zena 3

20


That ia all we got.as their reply. So in effect ty refuse te attend
the meeting of the substitute comand but want a meeting of the titular
comand, In-that regard, the (several words] a meting to (tako up) the

points, this note must be answered. The line that we conclude fran this

“is the same line that they, have tried to follew, that everything has been

done by a onal group, which is the group that is in the fetty], that ts.
it 4s Rudy). vho

t
“atrectiy with (Roty), and that /has "disjointed", as thoy put At, all

functioning of {words}. But now with the conversation held by comrade

Adan the whole thing haa been clarified and wa are atrong once more.
In any ovont we have not fatled to [ask them), including [owveral words)
with comrade [lus], 0 that in case of a meting (they) would attent,
Wo are ready to attend any meeting to which we are calledy [we have)
called than three times, and they have failed to attend in all threo cases,
Therefore we propose that this remain the way it is until we have mt
there, since [phrasoe}.

Thess are the enly =~ the latest news; this courlor has to leave.
Before we close I shall save up some of tho tapo for a measage comrade

Jenaro hag askod to be allowd to record, Since I have been working on this

he came over and wanta to send a greeting. So we shall listen to comrada

Jenaro. :
Cow more thing befors Jenero's message. In tha event you wish to
reply to the memorandum gent by (Juan Chacoa], there will no ebjection on

our part, He are at your corvice there, a}though (several word] the

coxtrote etatecant of opinion that (several wads], what they are trying
to do 1s (leave) us alone to see whether wo aro cabable or incapable of

contiraing. They imagine that wo going to be unable to got out even a

a


q + 4

bulletin or even less otreulate mything, snd that ve would have to go ;
looking for them, With thige tactics of delay and of not attending the
mootings thay are trying to pressure us, te see «== to make us feel,
they think, the need we have of thon,

That is not the way the fovolution ts carried onj that is not the
way the process can be advanced, But thie we shall disousa up there.
However, any decisien yeu up there may want to make after discussion will
be acceded to and respected by us. : i

Again I sey farewell, with a.fratemal, canbative greoting to comrades
Adan, Mateo, Marinero, [Sosa], and all the ethers who aro there, Fervard,
comrades. Good health and good work.. Listen now to comrade (name).

{Another mans]

I greet you warmly, Mateo. I got your affectionate greeting, ant
wo accepted it with love. It 1s actually (word), the manner, tho assurance
with which you expregs youruelf, and w are working rather hard hore, with
great synchronization and [word] and understanding of comrade [Ruxty) aust
{pushing forward evory task]. We are here té give impetus to the preceso,
ag you say, and wa realize it,

Givo my warm grooting to comrade Adan, I got his greeting also on the
other recent ing, Crostings {grandes feltoidades} srobsbly congratulations
intended} on the ap statement and the interviaw with the newsmen, Really,
tha statement and interview reveal great political maturity ani denenstrate
also the work boing dons by comrade Mateo with regard to the eharponing up
{eduracton) ef a teaa up there among thy guerrillas,

To concluder “abrasos” to beth, comrades Mateo and Adan, although I do
not have the plesgure of your pormnal acquaintance, but vo are invalved
in the gam enterprise, in the same great task of carrying out the socialist

22


Wa shall soon see each other,

23

Forward, comrades.

revolution in Guatemala,



POR VICTOR RICO GALAN

En un edhtorial recente, Blompr®
censuré con energia lo conducta
de nuestras autoridades policiacas
on el acropuerto, por los malos ua:
tos y las vejaciones a que son o>
metidos los wiajeros procedentes
de ciertos patses, sobre todo de
Cuba y do Espana. Aceptaba

“ nuestra’ revista como cosa norinal
la vigilancia sobre visilantes po-

tencialmente peligrosos, pero ecu

saba a las inndmoras policias que el mexicano padece
“de realizar mal esa funcién o no realizarla ¢f absolute,
cambio de actuar con una insolencia y una prepotoncid
intolerables
Como por encargo, los acontecimientos posteriores han
venido a dare a nuestro editorial més razén incluso de Ia
que pretendia tener. El pasado dia 7, un-norteamericano que
responde al nombre de Henry Agiieros Garoés, Janzé una
granada de mano contra los talleres del periédico E}-Dias
con intenciones verdaderamente siniestras: la granada ‘fue
lanzada en un lugar tal, que sélo la répida intervencién do
los trabajadores del diario pudo evitar una catéstrofe de
incalculables proporciones, de la que no estaria excluida
Ja pérdida de muchas vidas humanas, tanto en el edilicg

del periédico, como en la zona aledatia.

No se trataba, por otra parte, de un hecho tinico ni ais-
lado. En fecha anterior, aunque reciente, el Instituto Mexi-
eame-Ruso de Helaciones Culturales sufné una agresién
ondioga, y el ctma utilizada resulté ser idéntica —segiin la
policia— « la que exploté en el patio de E! Dig. Casi simul-
téneamente fue ometrallado ol departamento que habiteba
el coresponsal de la agencia yugcesiava Tanjug. y sélo
la circunstancia de encontrarse en un quinto piso salv6
la vida de bu esposa, que bafiaba a su hijita recién nacida,
pues varios proyectiles de grueso cahbre entraron por las
ventanas y se alojaron en el techo de Ia habitaaén. En am-
bos canes, Ia lenidad y la indilerencia de la pohcta fueron
evidentes. Mi aparecieron los culpables ni se hicieron wnves-
tigaciones serias.

Ademés, somes muchos los mexicanas que. per ecupar-
nos de cuesticnes politious nacionales e internacionales can
un criterio Gpuesto aj del Gobierno de los Estados Unidea,
recibimes un alud de amenazaz y andninas inpunosoa, ban
19 por escr;to como ftelaiénicamente. La redaccién do leg
anénimes y oi leaguaje wilde indica cen Gandad que
son oxtranjerss quienes lea hacen, y probabiemente cuba.
hes Contrarreveluaananon Pew neews auntecsdn ote hve ons

Tea Tay

t fon, dei fone pow 1099, OF indiscutible ae deed contra.

} Revoluccnarios cubaiiea equivale a decir Agonaa Central
ide Intel:sencia (GIA) do ton Estados Unidos. |

La ola de violencia, espronaje y amonezas ha legade

@ un punto tal, que motivé una carta del director de lat re-

vista Polltica @ las autoridades responsables, exigiendo que
8o aphque la ley a los autores de tales hecnos delictuosoa

¥ denunaando los catuntrétices efectos que para al pats
puede tenet ol tolerarloz. Sin embargo nadé se habia hecho
hasta que se produjo ef atentado contra El Dia y fue captu-
rado su autor.

Capturcxio, no como resultade de invostigaciones po-
liclacas, sino gracias a la diligencia de un joven obrero de
Jos talleres de El Dia, que lo persiguié y le dio alcance, Por-
que Henry Agiieros Gareés entré en México como Pedro por

u casa, no fue molestado por policia alguno, no fue foto-

gratiado en trontera ni geropuerto, y pudo incluso utilizar
‘un nombre falso para obtener alojamiento en un hotel. ,¥
cémo no? Las vejaciones a ciudadanos extranjeros que nos
visitan tienen un reverso: el trato obsequioso y hasta ab-
"yecto que se da a. los “ciudadanos norteamericanos. Esos,
mismos polizontes que tan groseros y bestiales so muestran
con quiches vienen de Cuba 0 de Espaiia son la imagen
misma de ta amabilided y la obsecuencia cuando el que
Nega tiene una tarjeta de turista que lo acredita como norte-
americans,
Ser norteamnoricano es, on Méxivo, una patente de cor:
80. ¥ eso, a posar de que por la frontera norte o en tos vue- |
les internacionales que del norte proceden Hega a México} |
la poor gentuza Hégase una estadistica de los delitos co-
metides en nuestro pals por extranjeros, y se ver que loo
yangu's so llevan la pola, con cifras imposibles de iqua-
lor, y con crimenes cuya degradacién moral es también
inigualable. Todo lo cual prueba hasta qué punto era justa
Ja censura a Ia poticta que hacia SIEMPRE! en gu editorial
ya citado! os una policia que injuria, humilla y veja, pero
que no investiga los delites reales y mucho menos es capaz

de prevenirloa.
Queda por aclarar h:
liclas memcanas —ilegales y por eso imposibles de contro-
~————

lar legalmente~exi4n penetredas por la CIA, la FBI, y
otras agencias extranjeras dedicadas al terrorist, al es-
pionaje y @ sembrur la zozobra en todas partes. Queda por
aclarar hasta donde de ese norte revuelto y brutal que
nos desprecit, como decia. Marti, us el que verdaderamento
dirige a polizontea cuyes sueldos legales dificilmento jusnfi-
am el deroviio y ef lujo en of que viven. Quedan por acia-
rar muchas cosas, #! de verdad se quiere cumplur la prome-

SAnDPNanpOsaSsaannnar gua! gra", ==2"04

:zste. dénde esas innumerabies po-
ee



A /

i2WGalan, Victor aba ee 201-336L7b -
traande SONTE WL.
a,

ta of June 1965, Subject was reported to be a manber of the
yep and an enewy of the ?P3. : 5

wmmp tt8Y Traveled fon liga i _ 5 _
dase Ib ob. mal

Lite meo



SECRET

(B8e0 Felled dnp

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST raion Pate fice ot be treed or

RID/201 Section

Besteictes

(Firat)

Ha. COUNTRY OF oimtn [13. CrTy/¥oen OF Binew  [l4,COUNTAY OF LOCATION CUTIEENSHIP,

Te. AFFILIATION COOE| 17

Pp PATSERN ONLY] ADDITIONAL CODES - PB PATTERN

ae ”

es iia oa et)

‘GuGANTEATIONAL O® GBOUP AFFILIATION (Cf) EE BEE 18. oncsonour come

"eccupatigniPaaition (Clear text) Tay acer was aooREV TS

Tieiver one : Tass ercononay basa

Teaver towsne

2a. Psruoonre
|
i

> Cowart

SECRET een
