# 104-10177-10071

## Page 1

104-10177-10071

19C212

it "91?

11 MAR 1955

16-7

From: parama Cite Pasza3)

No. of Fagesi: Ore (1)

NO. 01 Encio ires; OnE

Distribution:

By copy to: Wash - 2 4/1 Att.

Havana

- w/l Att.

Files = 3 w/1 Atto

DEELDECDSE

Source Cryptonym: See Below.

Source, Operational Data, and Comments:

References:

I) Source is Dale. C. Gossage who intercepted subject letter, copy af which is

attached.

2) The evaluation "A-2' was given rather than "A"Joc" so as to conceal locally,

Insofar as possible,

that this report is based upon postal interception.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

Classification

T PREY

- 40

2/pV

---

## Page 2

..

FIGLO INTORIATIOS RSP0RZ

'hes:

SUSJECT

3 visan Aspirations in

United Nations

REPORI SC.

8 223 1323

DATE GE ITORYA ICE: 4 FRICh 1955

PLACE ACQUIHED

: Pana City, Panana

SOJRCE, SORCE EVALJATION

s s sarch 1955

AID APPRAISAL, OF CONTENT: Irdividual with excellent DATS D REPORE : I0 March 1955

connections in Panamanian

Coternment. 4-20

on 4, March 1955 Enilio toz Portuondo, Cuban Arbassador to tee lations,

wrote a personal letter to cctavlo heeza, Panamanian Sinister a Foreign

The writer stated that after seven months in the rey c" Labor,

during which tine he net and solvel many problers, Frasicast airet di ofiered

hin his choice of any linistry,

the inbassy in Hashingt, or contimation ag

the cuban Ambassador to the mited nations.

Mans said chad ho crose is latter

post and that it was in that capacity that he vas writire to 202221.

He then recalled that in me 0. to deneral assonly ca at jest sis aspire

so a seat on the securitr semoil and had had che praise

2:3 1120314 01

Panana in this mattere

Konaver, Cuba harl bored out at sis tire men Fam clained

precedence in its right to a seat on the Secirity Counsi?.

AGIC 113

arnounced its desire for ie

sest on the security Cocroi" in the zero: assembly

scheduled

to sees in loverier 1955.

3.

WiNez then said that Curs, chrough its diplomatic representatives, is saliciting

support in tris ratter and trat because at the prosent tiere is no oter latin

Anerican member of the J. l. with sinalier aspiratiors h2 does too iticipate

any conflicts of interest

le stated that to date their request io supert had

been replied to aîfirmatively by Chile, Argentina, Moadaras, jaiti, Costa Rica,

Dominican Republic, al Salvador, and Pera.

lo NUNEz then asked ¿REPElA to raply favorably as quicily as possible no the cuban

request for support in this matter and added that, because of the arsellent

Government.

Distribution:

---

