104-10189-10032;
7 :

Tech Activity

TPELIDE

‘The initial effort (about! againat the PINE UAE
target PBIMPULSF (hot-:nike telephone). It =
fatroduced irto the target using LIFEAT assets acd wae actusted

from the LIBEAT VI baschause.

Subsequent to that (1960-1861), eight microppane/tracemitter
inetallations were made in the same target. These were
called LIERODE Inetallations. Cne or two were placed in the
senior official's office at various times during thie period.
7 These installations were monitored from a truck (not the LIFIRE
> truck) mud an apartment (basehouse Able) and later a second,
closer apartment (baschouse Baker).

Bacchouse Baker was always referred to as the LIERODE
B

‘The lact microphoue/transmitter installation ce
Guriag late 19619 and at that time work started ona
iustallation called LIERODE/MKIRAP because the MKTRAP
fe technique wae used.

The LIERODE/MKTRAP tastallation was made using
LUFEAT aseets and was actuated (rom the LIFEAT-VI Sase

dering March 1962.

At some time during the period 1962-1963 photo operations
were put into effect using Sasehouse Baker (LIEWCDE Basa).

During November 1963, the LIERODE/MKTRAP inotallarion
was re-actuated from a second LIFEAT Basehouse (Basehouse

Charlie).

In summary, since[_ |there have been the following
techaleal operations from the followiag bases againat this

targen:
" 1, PBIMPULSE (hot-mike telephone) LIFEAT-VI
2. Mike/tranemitter installations (8 each) Basencuse A & Bliawa)
3.- MKTRAP (hot-mike telephone) LIFEAT- VI and
Basehouse C Gstesr-2)
4, Photo operations Basehouse Biserrss)

NOTE! Basebouse A wae strictly temporary and almost certataly
ie not in use and probably cot available at this time, Irie
believed that it is the apartmest of a mute relative of

LINIMENT-22,

a oo SECRET

