|
|
E
:

frosiessdeueinpegnaniasnianat

QO wncassivieo Ny, CO conr*oentiat
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

© seceer

__o/Ft/pn/L1ATsOW

Wetse 610 “emte* () secReT C1, CONFIDENTIAL (7) GMIFRMAL 7 uncLAssiFtED
‘

© 8 cpreumet motes cree e440 -emen 7
a i


i
i

a - eo Vadrid and Feria and to the
Diip8

SECRET

3 January 1961

MACRANNY Tor C/PL/LNT/LIAISN

FEC Bf HS
SUBJECT 1 Passaze of Ctate Derartnent and U.S. Army information

to CIA Madrid and Paris and to
Co finas

1. It is hereby requosted that poreiooiun be granted to pass
the confidential information from the State Departaont Forulgn Ser=
Yice Despatch No. 127k of § Decerber 1960 und that from United
States Army mes:iaga No. C-333 (Ik 700L9), 25 Deconter 196.0, to both

7

2. The naterial from tho State Pepartaunt concorns Eloy UCTIERAEZ
Menoyo, Spanish born Cuban nationsi, who haa racently dedicated his
undivided attention to the anti-Franco muvonent in Cuba. He is the
director tn Cuba of the Spenish Liberation éray (Ejercito de Livera=
clon’Es-anol) and ie currently carrying on a fund-raising cas; aign
to "fill ite officers",

3. The Arey mossazo also concerns Hoy GUTIEKELZ Menoyo
who, in connection with anti-Franco activity, allegedly plana to
infiltrate sone L000 Cubane and persons of other nutional ities into
Franca to fora a group bent on overthrowing Franco in Spain. It has
bon reported that aprroxinately 1009 persons are already in France
awaiting tho arrival uf the additional 4000, and there aro aras end
equipacnt for the entire force, All ind!viduals leaving C:ba vill
carry Cuban passjorta regardluos of thuir national tly.

L, In accordance with the Frosidential Directive of 23 September
SSH, this office certifies tat passage uf tila eos

representatives in Perris and Kadrid and also to the| 5
All result in a net advantage to-the interest of the United

TIWUAS F. THIGLE
Chief, w-5

Distribution:
Crig. & 1 = Addressee

2 = WES
we-5f ps/26Sh

SECRET



COLanceassirien Ca. INTERNAL CO cereioenriat (1 secret

USE CNY
: ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET o Die the
SURACT (Opn i
FRO 4 Py = a 1
' = fe cD
ce :
Wefy 0 BS i Qa - 96

(Otc daignenon, oem member, od] | U
omncens | COmmENTS (Humber cock comment to thew from whem
WATTALS | wham Drew @ ine oct colven ofr

fear non a

Wa. ery le

|

= nk ee

: | ce hy ww why
7. rere Gera |

L-

10.
12.

13,

14,

is.
| |

Seu 610 “mS ] secrer =] conrioentian (1) INA C7 UNCLASSIFIED

A coreanuert puortom orrie: caso sein”



= % u6 1803,

ni thet Day Osthérren Honoyo, i
(a revelewdowary group ost~

pounteing at
osana) bee recently
nb in lups, He ds

tw fill ity ece~

¢ Habana School of
Mon amg, Lamy id
wo en spay which wuld 6 0]
wis to send ecu eee
give outficieny

on
toe dudan prozle to ot
fron Pr:
fuainess ¢:

ny office and aa
+ Csonish cause (age

OM OEHTOR
. Qrernt: Kensyo's inte:
Bastin than puriatic.

VP ReSbSTe oF the 2nd ©
vorgin, have. aa



are)

Me BP resais

com

§


$09 FORM
ery

_MNFOs DSP, 050, JCS, AF, NAVY, CHSy,

35.2,

_ leaving

“2722102 DEC GO

snother Emb off advised received foliowiag from source
izple ia past, Shortly citer first of year approx
aad persons of other ns onalitics will. degia
iato France to form group bent oa overthrowing
sin. (Leader of movenent is Cloy Gutierrez
enoyo aided ead supported: by G Source stated approx
1000 alresdy in France aad awaiting al other 4000
sefore waking cove against Spsin, Said those now in France
have & equipment for entirs forces, at individuals
will have Cuban pessporis rege-diess of
jonality. Comment, kcnoyo fregueatly reported as being
ci head af movement ¢o overthrow France. Source found out
Cctails above when attempt mace to recruit hia-for operation.
Source will attempt find out location of concentration point
or area in France, in meantime if French authorities alerted
they might sotice abnormal moveneat of individuals using H
Cuban passports, Request pass above to ARMA Paris and i
|

vadrid tor info.

date

aL SSly

ACTION: ACSI

DA IN 70049_. (28 DEC 60)
SEARS woe REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
“
qua. Faw

