104-10164-10194] - ee um. Te é
2 : ay + ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET a
ie re Le ee _ wsteuctons. :
PRIOR TO FILING 6, ACTION RRANCH

#4 11. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap eee aa

and forward to RID H hile no, end ulle“shown are ,not proper,

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records insert proper lile vo. below anf forward
significant action taken or comments requit- document to RID, #.N.
ing reservation : :
FROM: PROPER FRE RO

|
|
|
|
|
|
7

a nen

o Go 6000000 0 09

nips)

~ TO: ALL ADORESSEES:
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON GACK. iF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS.

s)

[se [a Fem
WHICIES| 1 Ieuatton [Q |
ee
ee

0 WwifPerat
Bernaret b Bake

Gopy d.tachad

©

c

&ceeccec &



Chief, Westorn Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

ssecrTYPIC/Oporational

ormina
“AETON REQUIRED - REFERENCES.

Action Required: FYI

References; A. UFGT-17034, 8 August 1966 z
B,. DIRECTOR 27199, 11 August 1966

1, AMCLATTER/1 was terminated effective 31 July 1966 on
12 August 1966 at which time he signed a termination Secrecy Oath
and a Quitclaim, copies of which are being furwarded under separate
cover enclosure. He was, as authorized by Headquarters in Reference
B, paid a termination bonus amounting to three months net salary as
well as the cost of a single round-trip air fare between Miami and
Chicago. The net amount p2id AMCLATTER/1 in cash was $1453.17,
although the total cost to JMWAVE of the termination was $1656.87,
Ancluding Fedoral Income Tax and VICA deduction. He also was issued
a "W-2" statemont showing his total cover company earnings for 1966
including the bonus of three months salary, but not the cost of the
@ir fare which amountod to $156.87.

4, The termination of AMCLATTER/1 was carried out in an amicable
manner, He seemed plonged with our offorts in helping him grr the
job in Chicago am well as ihe bonus payment, Ho requested, however,
that it be made a matter of record that he woulc drop everything in
Chicago and rejoin WOFACT at a moment's notice in any capacity or
@alary level, if his wervices should ever be required again, ilo also
¥aised the question of hiv oitizonship, criticizing both LNERGO and
LNGOLD for thetr fatiure. to help him. He was told, as he has boen
told on previous ovcasions in. the past, that we could do nothing to
help him on thin matter, and that any complaints between himself and
other agencies had to bo bandied by him alone, ite accepted thia

pouttion araoofully, stating that we had treated him fairly and he
ad no complaint against WOFACT.

pols?

Attachnenta: pero
1» Beorecy Oath & Suiiuinim, Use
Bo Letter of Appiioetion, Uso

Dinteihutions
t= MI/0, w/atte

r
} vrodegangs
H FUTCANTORTTRE OAR

@ BGlese leas



on

- cee magne te eer manent
ganas SAM ERATE Wa cen MeN ar

ohn wae to biel ard only what he hoard shout the eloations and nut to

foc |

CORTMMUATION OF
GISPATCH:

3. AMCLATTER/1 departed the Miami area for Chicago on
13 August where he vill undergo a four week training period with
the Rauland Corporation, a subsidiary of the Zeni:h Radio Corporation.
The Rauland Corperation, which manufactures color TV tubes, employs
a large number of Cubans, and is in the process of hiring additional
employees from among the Cuban refugees in Miami. AMCLATTER/1, with
our guidance and assistance, sent a letter of application to the ~
Personnel Director of the Zenith Radio Corporation providing back~
ground data on himself. A copy of the letter is being forwarded
under separate cover enclosure for Headquarters' files. He subse-
quently was interviewed in Miami by company personnel officials who
visited Miami in late July, and was hired in a supervisory position
which will involve his working in a liaison capacity between manage-
ment and the Cuban work force. He was promised a salary of approxi-
mately $180 a week per 60-hour work week, plus reimbursement for the
expenses of moving his family and household effects from Miami to
Chicago. He has expressed his indebtedness to us for helping him
obtain the position, and is eager to make good since he believes
that we were instrumental in his getting the job.

4. As explained in Reference A, AMCLATTER/1's contract was not
renewed in April 1966 because plans were underway at that time to
terminate him, His performance for the past soveral months has been
practically nil, not because he has not been onger for work, but
mainly due to the fact that he is not suited for what has to be done.
He started working for JMWAVE in April 1960 os a Principal Agent, and
during the period preceding the Bay of Pigs ho handled a number of
political action agents and spotted and developod several candidates
for recruitment. Since much of this activity was more overt than
covert, he was thoroughly blown as a WOFACT asset, and eventually
became known in the area as a sort of WOFACT-spokesman, a role which
he enjoyed and encouraged. As times changed and the Station began
concentrating on more covert activities, AMCLATTER/1 became something
of a eecurity problem, since any statements or opinions oxpressed by
him concerning various individuals or exile groups were oither mis=
taken for "official leaks" or "policy".

8. AMCLATTER/1's strong poinia have been his dedication and
enthusiagm for his work. He has, however, boon mowhat of a problem
in that he is a "haavy handed" operator. who trios to impress his con-

with his importance, thereby committing a number of indiscre=

A good example of this can be found in his performance during
the recent election of officers in the 2606 Brigade, AMCLATTER/1
had @ number of contacts in the Brigado and was instructed to monitor,
without specifically asking questions, the pro-eleotion activities of
the Brigade through his contacts, Inatead of monitoring the aviivie
ties of his contacts. however, he began hammering away at thom,
instructing thom te work against certain candidates, This gave the
Ampreszion that WOFACT was attempting to sig tha elections through
AMCLATTER/1, This immediately came to the Atation'a attention, as
some of those contacts wore working for JMWAVH and complained through
theiy ease officers that AMCLATTE!/1 was throwing his wolght around
ond giving the improamion that he waa running the eleotion for WOFACT,
Ape result, AMCLATTRI/L wan reprimanded and told a mocund time that

autivaty wook information, Instead of heeding thie advies, he. again
Bought out his gontacts and “ohowsd" thea out for gett iin it) An
troutio With hie superiors, Thay again reported him through thebt
gone Gifivera, whith hie hails Hil Lis. Wirsid Witiue fiw Had bean
Inatruoted nok to let thom know whit had developed, .

S$, In tatvnons to AMCLATTAN/! Lt must be maid that he bo
seneclentious and tirelges worker who belived in whet ie wae doing,
and the teok pride dn hte assoutation with WORACT. tty often atated
that he was -onger roally to co womeitiing, and tndieatad that he
teuld have Ulked to have had the opportundiy od parciedgatiing tn
gone tyne of PM mativily, aitinual te realbaed Nis age wae agatnet

cours



|

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH -

him. Perhaps he was right since it became obvious in the past
several months that he had little aptitude for debriefing refugees
or handling contacts, In any event, we felt that in all fairness
to. AMCLATTER, that-he should be terminated at the first suitable
opportunity and in & manner that would ‘be helpful and beneficial
to him, It was also preferable to get him settled outside the
JNWAVE area. He himself realized that he was getting older, and
that there was little opportunity for him in the type cf work that
he was doing for JMWAVE., The job that he has obtained in Chicago
represents a real break for him as well as a considerable increase

in salary, We feel he deserves this break and hope he performs
well.

7. There were no major security violations on AMCLATTER/1's

part. His home address did appear on a PBRUMEN intelligence service

censorship list which possibly contained the names and/or addresses
of alleged PBRUMEN intelligence agents .in WOLADY, but the validity
of the list was never fully confirmed and he was SGSWIRLED on this

matter in April 1964 with overall favorable results. Because of his
six year association with JMWAVE, he has been exposed to a number of
case officers, some of whom he knows by true name, and whuse identi-

ties are listed in Paragraph 3 of his PRQ Part II. Thay can be
obtained from there if necessary.

8, AMCLATTER/1 completed a six weeks basic tradecraft course
in New York City in September 1964. He has had no other formal
WOFACT training. He had no logistical material assigned to him at

the time of his termination. a

hal, f frevleck

PHILIP G.

REVIEWED!

f
‘Bpaclal Gusteacting Officer

fond ;
SE 69G use resneve sertiom

L
i
\
|

t



pei USC :.ttachment 1 to
i ay UFGA-25825

(then Tilted tm)

TERMINATION SECRECY OATH

1, Bemard L. DARKER , ®m about to terminate my
association with the Organization. I realize that, by virtue of my duties with
the Organization, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which
concerns the present and future sccurity of our country. I am aware that the
unauthorized disclosure of such information {s prohibited by the espionage laws
of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence
sources and methods from unauthorized disclocure. Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY SWEAR,

WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND mn THE ABSENC: OF DURESS,
AS FOLLOWS:

1. Iwill never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or other-
wise, any information relating to the national defense and security and partic-
ularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods,
personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, including, but not limited
to, any future governmental or private employer, private citizen, or government
employee or official without the express written consent of the Chief of the
Organization or his authorized reprenentative.

2. have been invited to submit in writing any ponsetey claims T may have
against the Organization or our government which may in ony way necessitate the
disclosure of information described herein. 1 have been advised that any such
Glaims will receive full legal consideration. In the event, however, that. I am
not satisfied with the decietons of the Organization concerning any present or
future wlaims I may cutmit, fT will not take e“y other action to obtain catisfac-
tion without prior written notice to the Ormantzation, and then only in accordance
with such legal and weaurity advice an the Organization will promptly furnish me,

have any documents or materials in my posseeston, classified or un=
» which are the property of, or in custodial responsibiiity of the

on, having come into my pondession as a result of my duties with the
tos oF otherviaes

4, During my exit progenatng and during my pertod of omploynent vith the Organ
feation f have teen given ah opportunity te raport alt information about the
Organization, ite personnel, and ite ot¢rations which f conaider ahould receive
Offlctal dognizanea, fenve, tC onm tint avars of any dnformation"whieh It te my
duty, ih the national tnterent, ta aineiore ¢ Sreantazation, tot an T avare
of mny Violations of brenchen of aecurity wilith ft have not offialally reported,
except As eet forth on the raverse etde uf thin shee’ or on other attadhmantes

\



(Mee Filtea tay

£ Rave been advised that, in the event I am called upon by the properly con-
stituted authorities to testify or provide information vhich I am pledged hereby
hot to disclose, I will notify the Organization immediately; I will also advise

said authorities of my sécrecy commitments to our government and will request that ‘
ny right or need to testify be established before I am required to do so.

I am aware of the provisions and penalties of the espionage lavs of our gov~
ernment and am fully aware that any violation on my part of certain matters sworn
to by me under this oat! ution under the terms of these 7
laws, and that violation of other portions of this oath are subject to appropriate

action, including such dissemination of the violation as the circumstances war-
rant.

I have read and understand the contents of this oath and voluntarily affix ny t
signature heret: with the full knowledge that this oath was executed for the

mutual benefit of myself and our government, and that it will be retained in the .
files of the Organization for its future use or for reference by me at any time

in the future that I may be requested or ordered to testify or disclose any of
the matters included within the scope of this oath.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal thie ABth aay of i
——Aumst______ io 64

a  hrnat 2 faurlew (ser) 4

Signature

Witnessed by ue tnte__L2 07 tay of, Lag sat 19. GC eae
7 Liver Btrike. : ap

ue Clint: f VEAL i),

SNA ELIOT &

i



19 AUG 1966

MEMORANLUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
! SUBJECT : Spencer 0, TERTELING, Contract Amendment.

1. It is requested that the contract as amended for Spencer
©. TFRTELING, Independent Contractor, which expired 4 April 1966, if
be extended through 31 July 1966, and that also effective 31
July 1966 it 1s to be terminated.

2, Concurrent with the termination it is requested that the r
contract be amended to provide for a terminal payment of $1,657.
which consists oft

a. Terminal bonus of $1,500. in recognition of
TERTELING's Lengthy period of loyal service
to the Agency, and the modesty of his income.

b. ‘The cost of one round trip eir fare in the amount
of 9157.

$,_ The WH Division concurs in the requests lsted above in
wiew of TERTELING's tenure of service and cal, f performances

LM
way Vv. Broe

Chie:
Wedtern Healephaxe Division

# APPROVED!

he Ne He =e

S Approved a¢ an axtenstun vf contract through 31 July 1966) ae notice
of expiration and aa an amanditent authuriaing the terminal payment
ppecifiad-aboves 4 46 (07

eel BGALD



iene ; : ey

GENERAL RELEASE

for and in consideration of the medical care and treatment snd other :

consideration provided me by reason of my injury suffered on NA : ‘

at NA do remise, release, acquit ry satisfy, and
SU

, forever discharge the said of an from all,

and all manner of action and actions, cause znd causes of action, suit

i
debts, dues, sums of money, accounts, reckonings, bonds, bills, i
specialities, covenants, contracts, controversies, agreements, promises, |

i

variances, trespasses, damages, judgnents, executions, claims and demands :

whatsoéver, in law or in equity, which against |

ever had, ‘now has or which his heirs, executors or adminis-

trators, hereafter can, shall or may have; for, upon or by rengon of

any matter, cause or thing whatsoever, from the boginning of the world to; i
, the day of the date of these presents,
I hereby acknowledge that I have completely recovered fron the!
" above gaid injuries and have no after effect from said injurios of any
2 eae “kind or nature whatsoever, ae
; ‘

E tn Witness Whereoz, f have herounto cot my hand and geal on ti

; Aathday ofAuguet, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred é
* and ainty oie, cn

net sors 7 ad
Au , : : marl kK ane

'  , @igned, Bealed and ‘Dolivered An our Presence:

.

SN RE SNES
AAA oA ARS :

a emmrennanit rasa enaerentnerneneecmwne tite a



ry AMCUATTER

: 10 AUG 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western 'lemisphere Division

SUBJECT: Spencer 0. Terteling - Contract Agent
Recommendation for Extension and i
Amendm:nt of Contract F :

1. It is hereby recommended that Spencer 0. Terteling's : 7
contract be extended through 31 July 1966 and amended to t
permit the payment of a cne-time termination bonus of i
$1,500.00, plus $656.87 to cover a round trip planofare.

2. Subject has been working for JMWAVE in i
Political Action since 4 April 1960, Prior to that date !
he worked for the Havana Station from mid-1959 until his i

bythe and arrival in the United States on 18 January
1960.

3. In view of the length oz loyal service that
Bubject has rondered in the last six years and the
modesty of his salary/income during this period, WH/Cuba
strongly recommends approval of JMWAVE's proposal.

of, Wi’Cuba

