rod-10462-10002

DATE Lelelas

LOST/MISSING MATERIAL

THE DOCUMENT OR PAGE(S) LISTED BELOW WAS/WERE MISSING
DURING THE DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW BY THE HISTORICAL
REVIEW GROUP, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE.

r DOCUMENT NO. = DATED: 1 tb3

OR
PAGE(S) ! of Cin & fece MEWo

FROM:
CIA gop No. Mitesenm: ARTIAS

pox no. |
FoupeR no. “ZiT

RETURN TO CiA
Background Use
Do No? Reproduos


‘ Ressible base for the reason that this is a "dictatorship."

j

‘

that is, they would be close enough for him to “reach
for them."

Cc. To furnish the advice, Chief SAS stated that he
-Would make available an experienced, mature, able case
officer and-a small team to support our representation 7
in contact with AMBIDDY/1's group. Specifically, Chief a
SAS mentioned a younger case officer to help our
representative, a man-of-allwork, a translator, and two i
radio operators. AMBIDDY/1 assured that he had a man for af
the job of translator.

_ D. No Contract Yet: Chief SAS emphasized at this
time, as hé did on several other occasions during the
conversation, that he was not empowered to “sign a contract"
with AMBIDDY/1 and he emphasized in equally strong terns
that this assistance does not include any commitments of
U.S. troops under any circumstances; except that, as
Secretary of Defense McNamara had previously stated, th>
U.S. would not stand idly by if the Soviet Union shoulu
commit its troops to surpress a popular uprising of the
Cuban people. Any victory won would be a Cuban victory.
Chief SAS stipulated the above four points to be the
ground rules for the exploratory and actual work relation~ aera
ship between AMBIDDY/1 and the Agency. c

E. At this point, Chief SAS turned to the questions
which must be answered before the next step can be taken
in this plan. It would be necessary for AMBIDDY/1 to
furnish the following:

1.. & base from which to operate,

7 : . © 2. Individuals dedicated and stout-hearted enough
to return to the fight of freeing Cuba.

3. A general plan as to what can be done and : a
how to go about it.

S point, Chief SAS emphasized again that this is to
ban show" and an attempt to prove that Fidel can
be destroyed by the efforts of the Cuban people.

¥. Chief SAS reminded AMBIDDY/1.that the first order Sone
of business was to be the procuresent of. a base and that
AMBIDDY/1 should’ proceed after a waiting period of approximately
three days to survey the Caribbean area, Specifically
mentioned -by Chief SAS were Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua,
and Colombia. At this time AMBIDDY/] mentioned that he had
been told by WAVE representatives to scratch Nicaragua as a

oy



« €¥ew, for, this boat, the mechanics necessary to keep it in

-Meeded and AMBIDDY/1 informed Chief SAS that he had a PC

- -

aeinaanceegbebitehd eget on

cceptance of the Nicaraguan government's
Philosophy. The Possibility of a Nicaraguan base was
accepted, Chief SAS made it perfectly clear that if ¥
AMBIDDY/1's negotiations with these governments should be
leaked or if the U.S. Government were officially asked if
it has a part to Play, the U.S. Government would deny :
any part in the activity. On the other hand it was ;
Suggested that AWBIDDY/1 might possibly find it easier to y
Procure a base if he were to say that the U.S. Government : H
might assist him if he had a base from which to operate, i
Again Chief sas indicated that whereas the U.S, Government :
would not be willing to formally admit any participation.
It eruld Scncclvebly ake Auuwn its sympathy with AMBIDDY/1's
Plans and activity and give its "unofficial" nod, In

and informally assist, however Possible.

G. Chief Sas told AMBIDDY/1 that once he had pr. sured

a base and prepared a plan, it would be~s:ossible. for Chief

SAS to take the operation one step further and seek
approval in Washington. Chief SAS observed th-t word : :
will get around that AMBIDDY/1 has the support of the U.S. 7 +
Government, which, of course, we will deny, AMBIDDY/1

informed Chief SAS that he had already begun: building 4
the story of support by certain Central American countries
and even European aid, specifically from. General DeGaulle
Chief SAS stated that’ he raised this particular point
regarding probably leaks of U.S. support to AMBIDDY/1 with
the thought that this would result in a great number of
Cul » Who really want to fight Castro: and Communism,
rallying to ANBIDDY/1. This would mean that AMBIDDY/i
would find it necessary to be Selective in his choice of
collaborators, AMBIDDY/1 agreed that-'quality" should be
the criteria.

H. Chief SAS observed that the number of collaborators
would determine how many people would be needed to support
the operation, as would the’ size of the base. The conversa~
tion dwelt for some tine on the equipment that would be

Boat with two General Motor's engines. Chief SAS. stated

that he would like to have a representative of his in the i
WAVE area see AMBIDDY/1's boat, in order to assess its

General seaworthiness. This was fine with AMBIDDY/1. In

this connection AMBIDDY/1 stated that he can provide a

Operation, as well as men familiar with wéapons and logistics.



AMBIDDY/1 obviously was not too sure of his strength in

the logistical field. Chief SAS noted that he might be
able to lend a log officer to help in this regard. So

far as radio operators are concerned, AMBIDDY/1 informed
Chief SAS that he has these but that he does not tave the
necessary equipment. To close his part of the conversation,
Chief SAS referred again to the fact that his representative
would be present to advise the group, that it would not be
necessary to completely agree with the advice, and that if
in fact the adviser sent to AMBIDDY/1 proved unacceptable,
another could be substituted for him. Typically, AMBIDDY/1
hastened to assure Chief SAS that they would certainly be
able to get along with his representative, and t!
foresaw no aitricuity or getting on witn the pruvica of
finding a base and presenting a plan. Chief SAS emphasized
that he did not want a minutely detailed plan, but the
concrete outline of AMBIDDY/l's ideas. At this point Chief
SAS asked AMBIDDY/1 to take up whatever points he had in
mind, These follow:

1. AMBIDD7/i's Statement: AMPTDDY/1 has had
some problems ong e following liues:

a. An inability to work out satisfactorily

2 radio program to be beamed to Cuba. According
to AMBIDDY/1, a.pjan has been worked out for a
ten-.~.nute program, three times weekly on a station
which beams largely to the exile community and is

. able to reach only a very limited part of Cuba.
This is not a satisfactory solution to their (MRR)

‘i problem.

b. Problems surrounding publication of issue
mumber two of his newspaper. Apparently the
- station wants another memo from AMBIDDY/1 regarding
a desue number two. (Chief SAS took up with WAVE
‘Jom 2 May.) q

¢.. AMBIDDY/1 states. that approximately one
month ago he had raised the question of the
_ architect “convention ‘to be held in Cuba, and that
hhe had provided WAVE a contact with an exile
architect but that nothing concrete had come of
. this to date. (Note: At this point Chief SAS
reminded AMBIDDY/1‘ that it has been difficult to
arrive at a solution of certain problems during
this period when so much attention has been diverted
to the problems of the hit-and-run raids and. the
~erisis within the CRC.)

7 . : fe

Sand f

= ndemetpe en

ee

Oe sO ee ee

2 mn teabeemusamns


tbe
stags

)

Baki -

' : -5- i

d. AMBIDDY/1 stated that with a dissolution
of the CRC, his organization would be cut off
from its support of some $4,000 monthly. Apparent'y
the MRR was paid $4,000 for April but has not
received anything for May. This was resolved “yz
a telephone call by Chief SAS to WAVE on 2 Kay;
MER to continue receiving this fund.

e. AMBINDY/1 also indicated a need for funds ce t
to pay the rent of the office used by the MRR. } 7
(Idem phone call on 2 May.) i

ft. asmmrnpy/1 stted that he had been asked
> by WAVE to furnish personnel for infiltration into
*. Cuba. He stated that he is ready and able to do
50 and all he needs to know is how many and when. eae
He did ask, however, that these men not be asked i
to give up their membership in the MRR and become Heir
“solely agents." When asked if he had experiences i peste zs 8)
: of this type of handling in the past, AMBIDDY/1 aaneterte
a stated that there had been cases when members of ae
his organization had been told to gorget their :
MRR membership, that now "they were working for
KUBARK." Chief SAS said that this problem could i
: be resolved and added that he foresaw that under |
i i certain circumstances our Miami office could help
AMBIDDY/1 to put his people into Cuba for the : !
t i" "independent" operations, especially in case of ‘
North Coast ops. |

; g. AXMBIDDY/1 advised he was presently training An
gome of his persunnel in intelligence and counter~ Ae
Antelligence work. He wondered if it would be
possible to have KUBARK assist the BRAC officer H
he is using to do this. Chief SAS told him that i

would be willing to assist, but that our eal foes q

training. requirements were exceedingly heavy and 1 z
At would be difficult to say when this could be
done. At this point Chief SAS stated that he
would from time to time send experts to assist
AMBIDDY/1 but that. these men would not be part of
the permanent. group supporting and advising AMBIDDY/1.

e 2," The meeting ended: with assurances on the part of AMBIDDY/1 :
that he was willing.to go all, out. to work with KUBARK; that. the ‘

MRR. bad the longest list of. martyrs in the Cuban cause; that it
hed. been his organization that had put in the greatest number



AGA CHEE RAIN et eres ats mee doer ne

ee — |
pice eae : -
. : ‘

:

of arms into Cuba during the Bay of Pigs invasion and finally

that the MRR and AMBIDDY/1 could be counted upon. Chief, SAS

assured AMBIDDY/1 of his high esteem of AMBIDDY/1 and his

organization, of which he had heard and read much. Chief, SAS

met with AMBIDDY/1 as Don Archer, {

| 03

, Distribution:
1 - AC/SAS ; : :
1 - SAS/SO/AR - Chrono . i
1 - Subject File (with extra copies) :

: rane
Serine 2 eRe le

‘-rrenaentntnncimtnmh vernal tinea tira ane eo

Cia anton

od.
|

