# 104-10320-10035

## Page 1

104-10320-10035

_NAVAL YUVESTIGATIVE SERVICE

FAIRMONT BUILDING

4420 NORTH FAIRFAX DRIVE

ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA

22203

Spin

of to dielessi

re Pres Kennedy

aussination

15 Naval Attache Canberra

SECRET

DNA-03614

SECRET

IN REPLY REFER TO

NIS-44/jeg

3850

Ser 001285

27 JUN 1968

From:

To:

Director, Naval Investigative Service

Director, Central Intelligence Agency (DDP-CI) (Mr. LUDLUM)

Subj:

Declassification of Information concerning President KENNEDY

assassination (U)

Ref: (a) CIA Memorandum of 22 May 1964 for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN;

Subj: Anonymous Telephone Calls to U.S. Embassy in

Canberra, Australia, relative to planned assassination

of President KENNEDY (S)

(U) In response to your verbal inquiry, it has been ascertained

that appropriate Naval Intelligence components have no objection to

declassification of the information concerning the assassination of

President KENNEDY which was provided on the telephone to the U. S.

Naval Attache CANBERRA, and discussed in reference. (a).

Reven.

I. I. STEVENS

Aoting

Copy to:

NAVINTCOM-321

DIS

far

8/08

P,CAU

TRAVEL PROGRAM

X SPICT

Coze. NO. (2. 3)

RYBAT REST. CCOR

CASE KEN (11)

NO (0)

FOR FILING

CIRCKiNG

EXCLUDED FROM AUSONATIC RECRIDiNG;

DOD DIR. 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

RECORO CCPY

35-1

261-289248

---

## Page 2

13-00000

• PD/! 8:135°

XAAZ - 36317

2 APR 1968

Esecutivil Reginal

05-15286/2

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

: Australian Press Request Regarding:

Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States

Embassy in Canberra, Australia, Relative to

Planned Assassination of President Kennedy

(Warren Commission Document 971)

Background

Mr. Peter Michelmore, an Australian newspaper representative,

has requested that we declassify CD971. This consists of a memoran-

dum from you to Mr. Rankin dated 22 May 1964 and an altachment dated

29 November 1963. Both relate to "crank" calls received by the U.S.

Naval Attache in Canberra on 15 October 1962 and 23 November 1963.

CIA first was told about these calls on 24 November 1963 by the Depart-

ment of the Navy - after the assassination of President Kennedy. A

copy of CD971 is attached for your information.

Recommendation

1. CD971 should not be released at this time. Mr. Goodwin says

he can handle the reply by phone.

2. We will initiate preparatory steps toward releasing CD971. This

entails clearance with U.S. naval intelligence and the Aust-alian security

service (the latter as a matter of courtesy).

3. Upon completion of step 2, we will submit an appropriate rec-

ommendation.

TOVE! 12031W

XAAZ-173

MM

palacea

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

Attachments

RYDAY FAST. (CRE

CARLE TOON (15)

NÚ (6)

Bed fing

prenan nony

6A96 1

¿icteded lled astanatis

1M991. 905 21

SECRET

201-289248

35-2

201289248

---

## Page 3

13-00000

• EDITORIAL: LONGACRA 9.039

ADVERTISING: BRYANT: 1921

CONTY (AUSTRALIA OFFICE: BROADWAY

LONDON OFFICE: IS PLAET STREET. E.C4

WASHINGTON OFFICE: 817 NATIONAL, PRESS BI

The Sydney Morning Herald Limited

Imousive Replay

229 WEST 43sd STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y. 10036

68-1505/1

THI SYDNEY MORNING HERALD

THE SYDNEY SUN • THE SUN-HERALD

THE AUSTRALLAN FINANCIAL RIVIEW

WOMAN'S DAY • PEOPLE • PIX

RADIO TELEVISION AND HOBBIES

March 26, 1968

Mr. Richard M. Helms,

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505

Dear

Mr. Helms:

This letter 1s to request the declassification of Warren Com

mission Document 97, which apparently consists of a memo

written by you and is now sealed in the National Archives.

According to an article by David Wise in the Saturday Evening

Post of April 6, 1968, the description of CD 971 13:

Kennedy."

This material would seem to be of interest to our Australian

newspapers and, bearing in mind that this material will be

made public at

some time, I would like the opportunity to 1n-

spect it.

PM/

mh

Yours sincerely,

Sate dish

Peter Michelmore

Editor and Manager

35-33

---

## Page 4

13-00000

= SENSA

*METHODS INVOLVEO

DJ1: 94:26.20

22.....

... =

DUPLICATE 07"1

XAAZ-1136

SULTACT:

Anonymous Telophang Callo to United states

Embarsy in Canberrs, dustrella, delstive to

Flashed *conssinition 0! President Ionnedy

1. I reler agala to paragrapá tro of your memorandus,

dated 1? jebruary 1905e relativa to Museminatioas to the Secret

Ferrica made by sto

Zo CH29 Noreraber 1953, CLA reccivad from tos Department

of is Nevy a copy ci a cable from to lisval Attache in Cansarra,

nostralia (17 67327, Top secre, later domigraded to Secretio

reperting a telephone converention lie previore day with au

anonymoue touridual rio had dencsibed hirseli so a Folica

chauficur for the Soviet Embassy in that city. Thie individeal,

while dacucchog sevaral tastiera of intelligence interert, touched

on thu posölchlity that tas jovict Coverment had financed tha

assancination of Frcoldest Reasody. Reférenco was saade la this

cable to the receige of a sinhar annoymous telepaces call co

15 Cctsbur 1962-

3. Upon receipt of thio cable from lavy Cli took too

follor.lag setien:

a. Cabled to Craborra dising full detailo of tao

talephona convasantion ol 23 Moreraber sal tho call nurde

on 15 Ectober 1956. It should be sciod that ClA had Dit

previoualy luises of the 190x tclophone call.

WARNING iCH.

SENSITIVE SOUT ANS

N'ETREES:

201-839348

---

## Page 5

13-00000

VIARAN

...silCE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

B. Thu Chi Station in Canbarm, 09 27. 50rambar, furnished

all svallable informaller on tas 196% tlaphone Cail. L+5yc3ra

t'bit sourco on that occasion settà that "Irco cartals neurtrica

plannod to pay 1 hundred thousand dollars for the assassination

ul Fresident Jennedy.

co Coil Morember, tha CLi Canberra festion slio furiabee

completo detail da to assagraces relapacas c211 of 23 Novambar 1861

supplied by it canare stallen, to ta sraito Ecoses dogiartarent

of stite and torora jeronu 01 Iritigation, mith a copy to the

Guese service. d copy of lilo dismenination 1a its asace test

SEntEchod 08410 247051529

The Can Station la Canberre arranged for Elecuseles oi tha

Is tho aylalon of tha

mure not sois to jirntly siy Pollab exployee of the soviet imbausy,

the estcmabile doreribod by too collar as tha ono ha drove. or the

licenco plato amber gives by him. No IntacT for ation on tbis

call bad bein recsired amisola cvicone scull tusd to chow thst

She caller 5a9 lane typy di crant. Thl concinion, bUbaYcE, Camot

be centrance.

5. Pleaso neto that the asture ol the information in tbis

Ladlestore

Ricared Elclas

Deputy Lyrector for Plana

stachineet

895L 1

5.99.99 4:a 1:19756:

WARMIIC NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES APO

METHODS 11SIV0S

35-5

---

## Page 6

13-00000

clotsd

WAR

-SENSITIVE jOURCES AN

METHODS INVOLVED

CUT Teletypo No. #5691, dated 29 Novorabar 1953, Siled at 1117 bours,

to tho vibite loure, rogartmert of Laite and federal Noraza of

Investigation, bits à copy to tao Sceret sersles

1. Yeur attesilen in calted to a forius of abonymous telechone.

Callo Mindo to tho Dilcu Dithu U.S. Nival steCte is Canera.

australla, by = man chairy to hive had inacledge dast a coviat

plet to anenusinato the icty frcaldent bennody. Cos firet record

oi tils rattar lo a Naval Altacha caulo trona Canberra dent 0s

34 Novestres -1763.

io Il eppenri tint the callor, who professes to on tha felial

chssileso of a Foriet Sonbessy car i Casborat, Kist paracd in

evor a year ago, on 15 Ociabos 1952 repost 1967. it that tiro be

Int o tory aboit dve Sanct sumerman Carrying 400 t0 500 Soviet

nollere on melt 441. ComIne 0

bo said, una to espport il Coramas of alisalesiont Daicdod tsit

thero mus a ploi to pay ors hustrod thourand dollais to kil Fralert

Kemody, Ichirú 1'53 plut, ho azid, vera tha "Iros Gurtain Coustries,"

ani "Conuzist non la laghanà, Font Song and probably soro cules.

couatries."

Jo Ch 29 Horemtis 1763 rapsat 1953, tho Eng alter tie

BESaRsinalion di FrorinE lennig En coaT 2 YOaT DileS tho lret

Eclaphons collo a mon ballorad to bu duo casse person phoned tao

¡scrbusay again and spoko to the sociatsri Neväl Attiche. Ths exlles

relosrad to hia cilli your back and statud la had sili that tit 0558

had pat op 100,000 dollars 10r tir siaaaaintion of Freclient Kennedy.

do Giring what ha claimed wara fartbes detalls zbout tho

Esanssinatica, tio callus aajd thas about tuo ucsia bofors fradeb

wonld kare boon in carly Morember 1943) La was proscut chan en

mustrallan man 15 to 10 yeurs chi, aad tall, nes clapatebed by

the Sevices to las Urlod Sintos soragira à cabo scout :5 to 10

contracters longo 5o contienters bigi, neu d.5 castimatera mide..

The amo VAsyl l'ue usd usdd in tara coanoction dita tai 5525.

les was pu ana pleur in yuy and chie teo coller crovo tro tuo

Souler sacars bier 10 Cantorro, dels chortrava Fido Le the cos

ni solng contry. l sharrain radio cas going in tes S0b.08y

Celaiea mon damal:"

Coe:1269% 019

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AD

5-10

---

## Page 7

13-00000

io!

SENSIVE SUUNCES

METHODS INVOLVED

tart marcing lapparently Nacercar 106: 1151905198 2131 taugh

and toasta wore doink in ñonalin Your end lae Fustians present solo,

5. Tho caller tus curs formation" stoat the forict rols

Ignth sic roule not acy hirsel and when do described the

car se drivaa los a mury bino 1952 Caler, Hechae plise dar Touth Males

Co than bonddad they cien casage platea, have liny data is sescare.

do The callos sided corso 73gis isionistica aDoC% 2 0cms1

excalayan 01 the decrican ambarry do thiaga norto for the Sorets.

The converantion cos lured wills the caller groining to milto a lettor

10 dis 8741a1+4954568194041442687

7. Tho callor spuko good caglial nas his accent nud voice did

not cange tarcaghost to conver ca. 10 it tas 1amed that he

was sit deguising his voice.

Co ractralian anchoritica vostlog en tits ense Consider 1a

callen to ba a crashe They rato last sostet Olíloce 12 3us ralL

10n0s End anything int Gories chaudaser they hare ao sacord 05

sails urina a Polish chaufour. They are coctiouing turo invocligatioe.

620U?1

Excludes ion 900m811:

WING N

SE: 511

35-7

---

## Page 8

13-00000

T5#.0841

, TOP SEDACI)

NON-CIA TELETYPED MESSAGE 1F3

MONER

INOPOSCRET FOLLONSI

CWOOI5

NNNNVV.

PP E.SC

DE ESN

T. CIA ZEHA

F 2404152 ZDG

ID

STERET

FM ALUSHA CANBERRA.

TO RUECW/DNIS

BT.

54 ThET 5 0800,2450. 01

T"OP SEG-RETI

29 Nov63 1N67327

PASS ALSO-TÓ CIA -

POSSIBLE SOVIET INFORMER

.

1: ASST ALUSNA RECÉIVED TELEPHONE CALL 23 NOV FROM PERSON

CLAIMING TÖ BE POLISH DRIVER OF RUSSIAN VENICLE. MOST OF

CONVERSATION RECORDED BY ALUSNA: INFO TOUCHED ON SEVERAL

AREAS-INCLUDING: POSSIBLE CONNECTION SOVIET GOVI SUPPLYING

MONEY TO INDIVIDUAL IN U.S: TO ASSASSINATE PRESIDEN;

POSSIBLÉ SOVIET IMPLICATION IN U:S.S: THRESHER INCIDENT;

SYSTEM OF USSR EMBASSY PERSONNEL MEETING MIGRANTS TO

PAGE '¿'RUECCE DOZA"

MOpSECRET

AUSTRALIA, PROVIDING FA SE PASSPORTS AND SENDING. THEM TO

OTHER' COUNTRIES, RUSSIAN MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO CUBA AND

INDONESIA; RUSSIAN CONTACT WITH COOPERATIVE IN INDO EMBASSY,

FANBERRA; EMPLOYEE IN AMENB CANBERRA CHOMAN WHO IS GIVING

281:289248

35-8

---

## Page 9

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOP SECRET

INFO TO SOVIET EMB; SENDING OF AGENTS FROM AUST TO U.SA

PERSON® GAVE CONSIDERABLE DETAIL ON MODUS OPERANDI OF TWO

SOVIET AGENTS IN SYDNEY•

2. PERSON HAS AGREED TO MEETING WITH ASST ALLSNA IN SYDNEY •

IN NEAR FUTURE: HAS ASKED FOR. ASSURANCE HE WILL BE PROTECTED

•IF KE COOPERATES. TOLD THAT THIS COULD BE DISCUSSED AT FIRST

MEETING:

• 3• AMBASSADOP

INFORMED.

CONDUCTING

SURVEILLANCE FOR WELL DESCRIBED CAR AND DRIVER WHO CLAIMS

TO BE IN CANBERRA NOW;: XEEPING SOVIET ELiSSY UNDER SURVEILLANCE;

HAS ARRANGED TO MAXE INMEDIATE SURVEILLANCE

• OF ORIGINATOR AND/OR PLACE FROM WHICH CALL MADE.

PLAN TO

¡ COVER MEETING OF ASST ALUSNA IN SYDNEY IF IT-EVENTUATES.

4.

'5"' ON 15 OCTOBER 1962 A SIMILAR CALL WAS RECEIVED AT EMB

": PAGE 3-RUECOR TOP SECRET

POSSIBLY FRON SAME PERSON: IN THAT CALL REFERENCE MADE TO

PLOT WITH REWARD 100,000 DOLLARS TO XILL PRESIDENT KENNEDY:

CALLER ALSO STATED USSR SUBS ON WAY TO CUBA WITH TROOPS!

WHOSE SECOND OBJECTIVE TO GUARANTEE SUPPORT TO GOVENNOR

OF MISSISSIPPI: SUBSTANCE OF CALL PASSED TO

LAT THAT.

TIME BUT NO FURTHER INFO DEVELOPED:

Go WHILE SOME ASPECTS INDICATE INDIVIDUAL A CRANK OTHERS

SEEN MORE AUTHENTIC: ALL PARTIES; INCLUDING AMBASSADOR;

FEEL MATTER SHOULD BE INVESTIGATED UNTIL ADDITIONAL FACTS

•TOP SECRET

35-9

---

## Page 10

13-00000

•CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

TOP SECRET

ARE DEVELOPED OR EXISTING LEADS HAVE BEEN EXHAUSTED. •

T: ALUSNA MAKING VERBATUM TRANSCRIPT OF RECORDING WITH

CONMENTS TO BE SENT NEXT POUCH•

GP-3•

•BT

TOP SECRET

ARt°

35-10

---

