# 104-10100-10223

## Page 1

104-10100-10223

FB/CIOF

5661

16 OCTOBER 1963

T..

N7JO. DE JAREIRO;

CLASSIFIED MESSÁGE

SECRET

AS NO INDEX

II Fil: N0 720-120-11

MEXICO CITY

la-d

ROUTING

DEFERID

AOUTINE

C.TE DI 6 1 6 5

160cr 53 22

STO CET

INFO: 1005, G/El, GEN E, GRiE E, CEE, CAm 5, RF, VR

TC

PRIORITY RIOD

INFO PRIORITE NEXI

KKF: MEXI 6550 (IN 40023)* (NOT SUIT: RIO)

ICHARVEJ! KAPOK

1. FOR: HIO: SOME MEMBERS OF CHISON DELEGATION TO THE JEVENTH CONG'ESS

OF INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ARCHIJECTS (UIA) HELD HAVARA 29 SEPT' - 3 OCT AFTERANDE

WENT MEXI TO ATTEND VIA GENERAL ASSAMBLY AND INTEFNATIOHAL SYMPOSIUM ON

ARCHITECTURE. MEXI GROUP NOW SCHEDULED LEAVE DIPTI 0100 HOURS 19 OCI FOR RIO.

FOLLOWIIG BIO DATA OI THREE MENIERS OF GROUP KIONN TO BE MEXI:

A.

U.S. EDUCATED; MBR NPC;

B. 20 AUG 1901, BORAN;

B. 1901, TOKYO; U.S.

EDUCATED; MBR CCP;

CICIA ANCITTECTURAI SOCTILY.

c.

B: CINCA 1919, MANCHURIA:

ENCE EDUCATED;!

TUNG CHT UNTY, SIANCIAT:

2. DUKING STAY GROUP MEXI UNILATIRAL APPROACHES MATE TO

AID

FOE PURPOSES OF AS JESSMET AND POSSIBLE DIETIPING,

DEFECTION OR

PLACE.

FOLLOWING COMPACTS WITH"

JSY FORMEN

PARTNER Ii ANCHIFEEC.URAi FIRM CILERA AND BY MBR U.3. FIRM PTEVIOUSLY

ASSOCIATED WITI,

ACCEPIED ITERVIEW WITH KURART STAFTER WHO USED COVET:

CONtINUED

==as

dean +8-4-48-898

to: 868 8-8-199

# 6 5 148%

pringiare

# H

Tino tire

16074

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SICEI

UN!!

EXT

DATE

1O

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INTO :

D INDEX

D NO INDE

D FILE IN CS FILE NO.

390

ROUTINT

• Т4!

15

ROUTINE

PACE THO

10

INFO

CITE DIR 76166

RIESRARCH SCADLAR CATHA. COHVERSATION FRINDLY AND INCLUDED DISCUSSICN MATHIAND

APPROACHED EL KIBARK CONTROTLED

TRO TAS STUDENT

1947. СОПРАСТ ИТТЯ|

JONA TO OTHER CHICONE IN DETECATION,

ALTHO

_ LEFT ALIE WITH OUR NAN POR HALF HOUR.

ATTITUNE FRIEIDLY BUT

SETHND TO FOLLOW PERRANCED LINE AND

FROVESKED COEIRTE EXTEP CHUTESE

CLATTED CONTACT BETWKEY CHINEN AND ARICAN "ERLIDS" CONLOCKED

LITTED TO

HICHLY DIRTRAIL MI CELESE. CONTACTS WITH BOTE

FRIENDLY DRSCUSSIONS STICE OFERATICHAL DISCUSSION DID HUT SURN APPROPRIATE IN

ETTHER CASE.

3.1

IN EROTHER, U.S, CITIZEN, ARRIVIRG MEXICO 16 OCTOBER TO TALE WITS;

MID ASK FOD! IF WISHES FEAT IN FREE WORLD.

DO 4O REQUEST HOD MONTOR ACTIVIFLES GROUT BRAZIL AS TEASIATE AND ATURE

DEVIIOP FURFERR RIO AND ASSESSENT DAXA IF NATURAL ACCISS TO GROUP CAN RE FOUND.

DO NOT RICOID FORCED APPROACH TO ANY OF GROUP, SINCE OUR OOVER FOR THIS

ACTIVITY WEARING THODY AND TIEKE IS LONG RANGE COAL OF FUTURE POLION UP THESE

CONTACTS WEXI APPROPFIATE ACCESS CAN BE ARRAGED.

cant fulled

COOROINATING OFFICENE

0008 1

E pardonder data pret me got,

see sata. +09900

REPRODUGTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Capy Na

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

CAE:

DFIE A: CSFIENO

jout

FIN: DIRACTOR

CONF:

INFO:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PACE THREE

INFO

CITE DIR

76166

5. POR DEX I: PLS IDENTIFY OTHER KARS OF MEXI GROUP PIROUTE RIOD AND

FORVARD TO, RIOD ART ADDITIONAL INPO ON PURPOSE TRIP TO RIOD. ALSO INFORM RIOD

OF RESULIS

PARTING NITE BROTHER.

HID OF MESSAGE

A/DCFE (C)

WH/ 3

7pi.zi

Balas

CGONOINATING OFFICENS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE IS U OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUININTICATING

OFFICER

Coor No

---

