# 104-10006-10282

## Page 1

1104-10006-102821

[FRe.:

(Requesters name) O

:A.W. BRASKO

BRANCH

SR/aI/R

ROOM

5a39

TO

TUBE

ROOM

DATE

RID/ INDEX

DT • 5

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT - 6

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS

GT - 7

RID/201

DW - 6

SECRET

BADGE NO.

BH 705

EXTENSION

7935

INITIALS

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

TRID CONTROL NO.

DATE

16 APR64

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

WE MEM

RID/INDEX

SURNAME

ROSSÖVSKIY

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA, ALIASES

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

Dmitriy

PTH5P ADENTIEYING DATA O cupation,

sex, CP membership,

Teacher

CITIZENSHIP

155/

ESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHEC

COMMENTS

RESIDENCE LenIngrad, USSe

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL, CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

(b)D Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

OTHER INTERETCO DESKS OR STATIONS

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and

those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

SASSTENEM

YES

NO

•ILE

БЕ КЕРТ

RID

DESK

Note 2. Information concerning foreign

public personalities (except mill-

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

60-9-4

(RC: 1459)

28 Jun 5

dob:: C1900

Soviet: Comi

choos in CHARTE

Tackaoset Redio),

ROSSOWSKI, FNU:

SEX M DOB C 23

196A035525

26 FEB 51

ATT C

oca ?

OWNER OF A PHOTO SHOP IN LUBAN AND IN

BOGATYNIA. RESIDED IN LUBAN DOI -1950.

CORR. CARD

ROSSOV, DMITRY BORISOVITCH

074-500

NNCA: 03202 EOI

*USSR,

KOZELSK

15. APR: 00

CIT USSR

OCC EMPLOYEE

ON LIST: OF

SOVIET PASSENGERS ABOARD THE

SS KALININ® PPT. NO. .194315

---

