# 104-10102-10176

## Page 1

104-10102-10176|

SECRET

May 1977

MEMO RANUDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Antonio Carlos VECIANA Blanch (AMSHALE-1) 201-312966

dpob 1928, Cuba

1. Information from review of VECIANA'S 201 file:

a. HKHA 6958, 21 Oct 60:

1960 -

President of Association of Public

Accountants

1957-61

Employed as CPA and Manager of Banco

Financiero, Havana, Cuba,

a loan

company owned by

Julio LOBO LAMEMBER-1,

former Agency contact 7

Formerly Chief of MRP (People's

Revolutionary Movement) in Havana area.

b. HAVA 7133 (IN 14488) 9 Dec 60:

On 7 Dec 60 VECIANA called on COS Havana with

former member of the

ANVAIL Broup, who at that tore represented the

movement in Sagua La Brande

AMWAIL

Justo CARRILLO Hernandez'

Montecristi GroupT AMPANG

have been Cuban Revolutionary Council.

Station had contact with CRC member Manuel RAY7.

VECIANA told the COS Havana of a plot against

in which VECIANA was

involved.

whatsoever.

VECIANA said he had previously spoken

with a State political officer (iden not given).

7 Oct. VECIANA entered U.S. at Key West. Had

passport, no visa.

Came via small boat, received

$100 month refugee assistance.

d. WAVE 0311. (IN 44277) 29 Dec 61:

29 Dec 61 JMWAVE Station requested POA on VECIANA

His wife and

chitdren were living in Cuba.

for use as sabotage man for MR is parents were

living in Spain.

Sira Antonio MUINO, later

13097

---

## Page 2

VECIANA •

- 2

коль

e.

JUAN 0636 (IN 24738) I July 62:

VECIANA, principal of ALPHA 66 attended meeting

2 July 62 in home of Emilio FUENTES,

Bayamon,

Puerto Rico.

Purpose was to solicit funds

from 40 persons attending

(above-average Cuban

exile professionals).

VECIANA pitch was

than request for funds with

inference reprisals against any who

to fulfill this

VECIANA said it was

necessary that they undertake an action program

outside of U.S. control. In this connection

the group was in contact with CIA through person

named "Joe" but group was not going to confide

in CIA and were taking precaution of avoiding

CIA penetration.

VECIANA left

for fund raising junket to Chicago.

f: OOA(s) 3232106 (WH 765) 26 July 62:

VECIANA was interviewed by Harry REAL 23 July

REAL was officer of New York Contact

Division.

VECIANA said they needed Agency

help, but under no circumstances would the

Agency be identified with its activities.

VECIANA said they already had $50-60 thousand

dollars at their disposal scattered in different

places

in the U.S. and P.R.

VECIANA 's immediate

requirement was conversation with someone in

Agency sufficiently highly placed

commitment.

DBA 18681, 8 Aug 62:

VECIANA allegedly went into voluntary exile ca.

Dec 61 arriving in Key West via small boat from

On 5 July 62 he left P.R. for Chicago and

New York City to collect funds for Alpha 66

activities.

VECIANA had been contacting Cuban

Santurce, P.R.

informant said VECIANA indicated names of

following three individuals then in Cuba who

were expected to assist Alpha 66:

Guillermo RUIZ /believed to be VECIANA'S

cousin's husband Orestes

Guillermo RUIZ - DG17.

Bernardo PARADELA

Informant said he knew all three as they had

connected in 1956 with SIM (Military

Intelligence Service) in the D.R.

PARADELA W.S then in jail in Cuba, but NOBLE

---

## Page 3

VECIANA

- 3 -

and RUIZ were on the losse

in Cuba, and were

cold blooded killers.

h. DIRECTOR 73652, 6 Sept 62:

Alpha 66 meeting conducted in San Juan on 30

Aug 62 by Geronimo ESTEVEZ attended by 200

Cuban exiles.

Meetings were held weekly. Had

plans to recruit young Cubans in Venezuela,

P.R. and Miami.'

1. DBA 25402, 22 Oct 62:

VECIANA was trying to obtain

2 boats from some

unknown Americans

somewhere in TEXAS.

VECIANA 'S

66) centered in P.R., pperated out

of unidentified

Bahamas, and had

representatives in Guatemala and sympathizers

in Miami.

J: Memo to FBI from CIA, 6 Nov 62:

Reported that Alpha 66 officer Dr. Ramon PEREZ

Daple,

assistant to Dr. Jose Luis

GoNZALEZ, both

of whom are Castro Cuban infiltrators.

k. DBA 28528, 1 Dec 62:

Large

of money were

allegedly donated to

VECIANA for Alpha 66_ activities by Julio LOBO.

1. Memo for Record, 31 May 66:

VECIANA had roomate in Puerto Rico, Felix ZABALA,

who visited Cuba Nov 65 in regard

to Camarioca

refugee departures.

Has an identical twin brother

in Cuba.

Had sister

Cuba, at that time,

secretary to Ramiro VALDEZ, Cuban Minister of

Interior.

m. IMCOBRA 0490 (IN 63607) 2 Aug 68:

VECIANA told Cuban Affairs officer Miami 1 Aug 68

that Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez (DGI) married

to VECIANA's cousin,

was dissatisfied with Castro

regime and receptive to recruitment.

reported

same info. to Cuban Affairs officer in

In 68 VECTANA

served with AID in La Paz.

---

## Page 4

VECIANA

- 4 -

n.

0 .

4964 (IN 97745).

VECIANA

appeared at state political see thove

section

23 Sept 68 with same info: le RUIZ VECIANA

VECIANA

DO WHINEY TAYLOR S

Miami invited

to visit

who would follow-up

RUIZ case.

OGC 74-0019, 4 Jan 74:

Letter to U.S. attorney N.Y. from OGC, John

Greaney re Antonio VECIANA and Ariel POMERES

in re unlawful acts of both from 1 Nov 72

to Jan 74 re unlawful importing of cocaine

or other narcotics.

2.

N.B. The Guillermo RUIZ married to VECIANA's cousin:

a .

lived in the U.S. illegally in 57.

b.

was to penetrate

counter-revolutionary organizations.

flew from Mexico City to Havana on 22 Nov 63. -

c. Married to VECIANA's cousin.

d. Reported by VECIANA to support Alpha 66 activities.

Chris Hopkins

LAD/JFK Task Force

N.B. VECIANA has allegedly been involved in

several assassination attempts against

Fidel CASTRO which for one reason or

another never came off.

They were not

connected with the Agency.

---

