# 104-10015-10359

## Page 1

104-10015-10359

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

CIRAIRS

2823

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

IP/AN

6

MAR 1975

3.

INAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFI NTIAL

SECRET

EXTENSION

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

27.

ap

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

XAAZ-35907

26/11/63

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after eoch comment.)

Pleave asagr

XAAZ A and

los

if he

209-289248

IP/EDI

7.

8.

• Document Number

130-592

for FOIA Review on

mis

APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ONE A MAY 1976

: IMPDET CL BY 01Z208

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

APPREHED FOR RELEASE 1994 -

CLA MISTOYICAL REVILW PROGRAM

610 USEDPRENOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

XAAZ

35907

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAN

RELEASE IN FILE

SUMMARY Of Relevant Information on Lee Harvey OSWALD at 0700ia

24 November 1963.

MASCINE FOR SENORE

1IA4

SOME N2 12.2,47

CAERE BENE (1L)

(ND (8)

FOR REG

Document Number .1

APR 1976

for FOIA Review on

1. Our first Information on OSWALD came from a technical

operation in Mexico City and was cabled In on 9 October 1963. It

revealed that on 1 October 1963 Lee OSWALD had been In touch there

with Soviet Consul Valery KOSTIKOV about & telegran which the

Soviet Embassy was supposed to send on him to the Soviet Embassy in

Washington. The date showed that OSWALD had also been at the Soviet

Embassy on 28 September. Traces showed OSWATD was & former U. S.

defector to the USSR and on 10 October CIA Headguarters notified the

FBI, State and the Navy (OSWALD had been a Marine). Our Mexico Station

was told to pass its information on OSWALD to the Mexico City offices

of the FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Embassy.

Since our Agency 18 not supposed to investigate U.S. citizens abroad

without special request, we did nothing further on the case.

2. After the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November,

Mexico Station, which immediately recalled its earlier report on OSWALD

and cabled us about 1t, began researching all 1ts files and records for

reports which might relate to him. It turned up pictures of a man

• belleved to be OSWALD entering the Soviet and Cuban Embassies on

various days in October, Including I October, but when some of these

pictures were sent to the FBI In Dallas they proved to be someone other

RECORD /erDY

CLASSIFICATIOY

TREVIEW

MAY 197

CONDUCTED ON

IMPDET CL BY 0 1 2208

26 nor 63

201-289248

---

## Page 3

13-00000

.. CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL 1995

-2-

than OSWALD. Mexico Station has, to date, found no pictures of

OSWALD entering the Soviet or Cuban Embassy.

3. The search did reveal more data from technical operations,

however. This Information, which comes in in great masses, bad not

been previously associated with OSWALD because his name is not

actually mentioned In It, but the subject matter shows it 1s about

him, and our expert monitor says the voice 18 Identical with the

voice of 1 October known to be OSWALD's.

4. This further technical information covers a round-robin of

telephone calle and visits which OSWALD made to the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies In Mexico City between 27 September and 3 October 1963.

This has been supplemented by reports on his travel in and out of Mexico

obtained by the U. S. Consulate in the border town of Nuevo Laredo frOm

Mexican Immigration Service records.

5. In brief, all this Information shows that Lee Harvey OSWALD

entered Mexico (apparently by car) at Nuevo Laredo on 26 September

1963, claiming he was a photographer, living in New Orleans and bound

for Mexico City. On 27 September he was In Mexico City phoning the

Soviet Embassy to ask for a visa so he could go to Odessa, USSR. On

28 September, he was at the Cuban Embassy, and Silvia DURAN, & Mexican

Employee of the Cuban Embassy, telephoned the Soviet Embassy about his

problem. It seems that OSWALD (whose neme is not mentioned) wanted a

Cuban transit visa so he could go to Cuba and wait there for a Soviet

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL 1995

-3-

visa which would permit him and his wife to go on to the Soviet

Union. Silvia DURAN asked assurance that the Russians would grant

him the visa. A while later & Soviet official calle SIlvia DURAN

back and explains that the visa applicant had been dealing with

the Soviet Consulate In Washington about the same matter and that

they could not be sure that he would ever get the Soviet visa.

The Soviet official added that the applicant had a letter showing

he belonged to an organization in favor of Cuba. Silvia DURAN and

the Soviet official agree to table the matter.

6. On 28 September 1963, OSWALD again visits the Cuban Embassy

and talks to SIlvia DURAN about the same matter, and she phones the

Soviet Embassy. OSWALD also talks to a Sovlet official on her phone

and says he will come to the Soviet Embassy and give him what is

apparently & forwarding address where he can be reached. There is

some hint this address may be in Cuba.

7. On 1 October, OSWALD has his phone conversation with Soviet

Consul KOSIIKOV about his visa, and on the same day, OSWALD phones

the Soviet Military Attache about the same matter. The MilItary Attache

gives him the number of the Consul. Finally, on 3 October, OSWALD

phoned the Military Attache again and tried to talk about a visa, but

the Military Attache again referred him to the Consul and give him

the right phone number.

8. That same day, 3 October 1963, OSWALD drove back Into the

United States at the Nuevo Laredo-laredo, Texas crossing point. He

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRE

RELEASE IN FULL 1995

had travelled on & Mexican Tourist Card In lieu of passport.

9. On 23 November 1963, Mexican authorities, who get the same

technical Information which we do and who had noticed the name of

Lee OSWALD In 1t, arrested SIlvia DURAN and her husband and interrogated

them. She confirmed the information given above, saying that Lee

OSWALD had professed to be & Communist and an admirer of Castro. She

and her husband are being held incommmicado and their arrest will

not be made known, for the time being.

10. Observation of the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico

and of their principal intelligence officers, including KOSTIKOV,

since the assassination of President Kennedy, by both technical and

physical surveillance, shows nothing unusual.

1J. texten President lopez Mateoa 18 amare of tals case 802

of

J He will doubtless support any

further police action which is necessary.

---

