# 104-10074-10334

## Page 1

104-10074-10334

LESTPLITED HANDLING MESSAGE'

2.

NOT EXCEED 69 TYPEWRITT.

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT::

DATE:

FR: pmE

CI/SO

1758

9 September 1970

'UST BE DELIVERED DIRECTLY TO SPECIA

HARACTERS PER LINE, INCLUDING

SPACE:

RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

GNAL CENTER.

Copy

SECRET

of

EITO

MUSL

(CLASSIFICATION)

(DATE AND

TIME FILED)

TO

SECRET

13-3

2179

• (EYES ONLY SPARROW)

097

I CEYES ONLY SHORDENS 21

RYBAT MHCHAOS

CITE HEADQUARTERS 080

13-16

REFS:A.

HQS-781, 5 JUNE 1970 (NOT SENT

B.

2213866, 11 AUG 70 (NOI SENT

1. FOLLOWING FYI ONLY:

A. LNERGO REPORTED ON 13 AUG 70 THAT HENRY WINSTON (201-006887)

CPUSA NATIONAL CHAIRMAN WAS TO MEET REPRESENTATIVES OF NORTH KOREAN

PARTY OF LABOR DURING HIS RECENT TRIP ABROAD AND GIVE THEM DETAILED

5/mv

REPORT ON CPUSA POSITION RE ELDRIDGE CLEAVER (201-817097) AND BLACK

PANTHER PARTY (BPP). WINSTON ASSIGNED TASK OF EXPOSING CLEAVER AND

BPP AS "PHONIES" BECAUSE CPUSA WANTED TO PREVENT ANY POSSIBLE LIAISON

BEING SET UP BETWEEN NORTH KOREANS AND CLEAVER. IN ADDITION, WINSTON

WAS TO INFORM NORTH KOREANS THAT GROUP ASSOCIATED WITH NEW YORK CITY

PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, THE GUARDIAN, WAS ALSO COMPOSED OF PHONIES.

B. AT SAME TIME CPUSA FUNCTIONARY, JOSEPH BRANDT,.. CONFERRED

WITH NORTH KOREAN PARTY OF LABOR IN JAPAN AND REACHED AGREEMENT ON

10623

STARTING AMERICAN-NORTH KOREAN FRIENDSHIP SOCIETY IN

U

CPUSA

"COORDINATING OFFICERS"

ACTION

Flaint

4_ SEP 1970

2, BODY RUNEHEP RELAT.

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

AUTHENT

SENS

A - Station

OROUP I

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE

338 3205

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ED MANDLING MESSAGE

EXCEED

69 TYPEWRITTE

AIT:

EXT::

DATE:

UST

BE DELIVERED DIRECTLY TO SPECIAL

HARACTERS PER LINE, INCLUDING SPACES

RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

GNAL CENTER.

Copy

of

(CLASSIFICATION)

(DATE AND TIME FILED)

CITE HEADQUARTERS

TO

SECRET

PAGE TWO

REP WILL TRAVEL JAPAN WITHIN FEW MONTHS TO FINALIZE AGREEMENT.

(COMMENT: POSSIBLE THIS CPUSA EFFORT RELATED TO WINSTON ATTEMPTS

TO DISCREDIT CLEAVER AND BPP.)

2 .

WOULD APPRECIATE ANY INFO WHICH COMES STATIONS' ATTENTION

RE ANY SHIFTS IN NORTH KOREAN ATTITUDE TOWARDS CLEAVER AND BPP.:

END OF MESSAGE

C/CI/SO

100k

Richard

Ober

RELEASING

OFFICER

efFE

Nichool

_COORDINATING OFFICERS"

KEYPUNCHED

AUTHENTICATING OF IÉE SEP 1970

SECRET

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USERS ONLY!

ORM 3205

---

