# 104-10076-10240

## Page 1

104-10076-10240

DI RECTOR

UMVAVE

ACTION

INFO

DOPS 4, /CA 3, CA/PCO, CA/PRON,

PLAINT,

61//5p3,207/1c 2,

CLASP

1O, NI/AN, VE Á, NE 4, FE 6, tas 8, pe/1,

TIDCS

18 DEC 8926Z 63

SECRET 1M826Z

13-3.

DIR INFO SDOM BARR LOND

CITE WAVE 8751

INTEL DYVOUR, JMPALM

SUPDATA: ZRAAMDO.

AMPAL-I FROM SEGUNDO FERNANDEZ, JR., AN OFFICIAL

OF FERGIS TRAVEL AGENCY, MIAMI, WHO RETURNED TO MIAMI ! DEC 63

FOLLOWING VISIT DOM REP AND MEETINGS WITH DONALD J. REID CABRAL.

RIDES INDEX. FILED 1900262

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLID DISSEM

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

SUBJ: OPINIONS, OF DOMALD J. PELO CABRAL, DOMINICAN MINISTER OF

FOREIGN RELATIONS, CONCERNINO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

DOI: 1 DEC 63

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 DEC 63)

IN COMMENT

AtTACHE

TO PORTION

SALE MAS EST

MAGE QUERN

NO: AGENCY PONDE

ERASE BY INE ACTION VAIT.

IN 76972

PRECIDENCE

ROUTINE

CASERAA

RELEASIE NO

DATE DISTRI

104520 00

VRU

SECREE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLICSHCE AGENCY

was tick

NON CON

us ton ose

CONFIDENTIAL

OOUNTRY

SUMICT

BIPORT NO TOCS

DATO DISTI

PRECEDLACE

REMIKENCE

DATE OF

INFO

PLACE W:

DATE ACO.

APPAISAL

FaCE

76972

THIS I UNEVALLATED

HELD REPCH NO.

DEFINITIVE: AFFILIAL OF CONTENTS:

1.

DONALD J. REID CABRAL, DOMIMICAN MINISTER OF FOREIGN

PELATIONS, SAID ON I DECEMBER 1963 THAT NEGOTIATIONS ARE CONTINUING

FOR AN EXCHANSE OF CUEAN PRISONERS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR

COMINICAN FAMILES NOM RESIDINO IN CUBAN AND THAT NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE

EXCHANGE ARE BEING MADE THROUCH RSPRESENTATIVES OF THE GRITISH

GOVERNMENT.

READ SAID THAT NEGOTIATIONS ARE ALSO UNDER WAY BETWEEN THE

TRIVAN IRATE GOVERNMENT AND CUSAN EXILES NOW RESIDINO IN MINGI FOR AN

AGREEMENT WHICH WOLLO PROVIDE THE EXILES WITH DOMINICAN TRAINING

BASES TO BE USED SY THE EXILES IN THEIR LOA AGAINST CASTRO

CONFIDENTIAL I

CLABSRICITON - ANIMATION CONTROLE

TELEGRAMINFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAV

---

## Page 3

14-00000

JDCS

116792

2

RETO EXPLAINED THAT THESE NEGOTIATIUNS ARE BEING HELD IDER THE

•EST SECURITY PRECAUTIONS IN ORDER TO PREVET OR FURTHER DELAY

RECRONITION OF THE TRIMVIRATE COVERINENT SY THE UNITED STATES.

3U REID SAID ME CONSIDERED THAT THE SITUATION IN THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC WAS NOW PEACEFUL BUT THAT UNITED STATES RECOGNITION AND FINAN-

CIAL AND TECHNICAL AID WERE DESPERATELY NEEDED: REID SAID THAT HE

EXPECTED RECOGNITION FROM THE UNITED STATES/BY 15 DECEMBER 1963.

CONCERNING NEGOTIATIONS SETWEEN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

AND SEVERAL CUBAN EXILE GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS NOW RESIDING IN

MIAMI, REID SAID THAT THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IS CONSIDERED MANY

OF THESE EXILES COMPETENT MEN. PARTICULARLY IN THE FIELD OF PUBLIC

ADMINISTRATION, AND WAS HOPING TO ATTRACT THEM TO THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLIC TO ASSIST THE TRIUMVIRATE GOVERNMENT IN ATMINISTERING THE

COUNTRYS

REID SAID HE WOULD LIKE TO SEE SEVERAL CUBAN EXILE

LEADERS NOW IN MIAMI PARTICIPATE IN THE TRIUMVIRATE GOVERNMENT.

REID SAID THAT HE WOULD DE LEAVING THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

WIN SEVERAL DAYS ON A TRIP TO ISRAEL AND JAPAN IN ORDER TO SIGN

COMMERCIAL TREATIES BETWEEN THE COMINICAN REPUBLIC THESE COUNTRIES.

REID DID NOT EXPAIN THE DETAILS OF THE TREATIES WHICH

HE PLANS-TO SIGN

6.

REID SAIO THAT HE WOULD REMAIN THE MINISTER OF FOREION

RELATIONS FOR ANOTHER YEAR IN ORDER THAT HE WOULD BE ABLE TO RUN

ATION CONT

SAFIDENTI

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CLASHIFICATION

INFIDENTIAL

FOR PRESIDENT UN 1905•

70

FIELD DISSEME NONE.

TION CONTAOLS

TDC$

ONFIDENTIAL

---

