iostote2-i0t6f] : eine
sat : Tateee tee RETURN TO CIA
ieee : Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Poe 2.

a SG CLASSIFIED: MESSAGE? ""F ** j
a) ee eee i
oon. 28 APRIL 1960. SECRET a i F
is 5
$

to + OIRECTOR
tow» HAVANA

ACTION: a 5

tM + “cop, cA 2, Ca/PHD, CA/PRO,"

eienich,

yD In 32624

= oIR 3S ATA SAD ar HAVA 389
REF: A. HAVA-3748 (IN 13239 .) sae : ’
: Be HAVA4313 (IN 30261 )* ‘ :
G HAVA 2g (IN 25833 yo
1. FOLLOWING REORGANIZED ‘STRUCTURE Mar: :
Ac -SEC GEN. AND NATIONAL COORDINATOR: ROGELIO GONZALES
orzo. : cates

B.. SEC DISCIRLINE AND CONTROL: LINO, FERNANDEZ.
e nn n
C. SEC PROPAGANDA: IN COLADA.
D. SEC PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: . ROBERTO ORTIZ CRABB.

£. SEC ACTION: FNU PELON.
F. SEC FINANCE: GUSTAVO HERNANDEZ CARTAYAs VICE-SEC,
WILLIAM BURN ORTEGA.
G. COORDINATOR, PINAR DEL RIO: LUIS. CASAS.
H. COORDINATOR, Las VILLAS: JOSE GONZALES CAVAYA.
1. COORDINATOR, CAMAGUEY:. CARLOS. POVELO.
J. COORDINATOR, ORIENTE: RENE SAID.
Ke COORDINATORS FOR HABANA AND MATANZAS PROV UNDECIDED.
2. ABOVE REORGANIZATION EFFECTED BY MEETING OF AMPALM-I,

SECRET

hast 1389 Ene
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy wo.



alll CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 2 °°" **
cates : 29 APRIL 1965 i

to ° QIRECTOR
from. HAVANA

ROUTINE

389

HAVA 4
IN 3e6zh

TO, ° ne cite
AMPALM-3, AND AMPALM=4; ROGELIO GONZALES ‘CORZO, EMILIO MARTINEZ
: VENEGAS ‘(SUB PARA} A REF.C) AFTER WHICH GONZALES, cot AMPALM=198'S-
CONCURRENCE.
3. A} REQUEST ALL.PARA.1-AND 2 AGOVE BE PASSED TO AMBIOOY~I
AND mati COVE BE ADVISED OF SAME EXCEPT NO MENTION OF A 1 AND
ay SHOULO GE. MADE TOL Geove. my
4, ABOVE FROM, ANPALM=]}, STATION, LIMITING ALL OPS CONTACT
; WITHOMRR TO BINIARIS~A.4 CHANNEL, _excegr GEBAIDE CONTACT RELATED TO
" EXFILTRATION OF AMPALM 1g. FILED 2bisisz.

: we,
‘eno oF F MESSAGE

No¢/s coment: DVISED THAT: ANOTHER PERSON WCULD-CONT ACT HIM-AS SCON
AS MRR REORGANIZED

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSU!

Hy 13gs |

