# 104-10529-10337

## Page 1

104-10529-10337

". I. BRAUBIRN

OCI

7454

14 OCT 63

AS BELOT

BOOK ABSSAGE TOXICE

S BCRET

-L:.1

NeCT 53 24 47 4

ROUTINE

it .

BOUTINE:

MINT

0D/;

INFO

CITE "DIR

75476

PEBAND

NEAR BAST -'AFRICA BRIN

(NOW ORA IN SLANTE)

ITS PRESENCE IN BOLDER AREA BRIPEL TINDOUP AND COLONS BACHAR

CLATTY BOTH NANT AN ASGIERS, ALTOGH SON OLDES APPARENTLY

WENT TO AYOID ALL OUT VAN,

/ACCORDING TO GET KITINT, KING BABBAT & PARBONAL MILIT AD

DISER, ADDITIONAL MOROCCAN TADOPS ARE MOVINO TWARD POSITIONS WHICE

VERE HELD, DT ALGERIANS DURINO CLASHES CA 8 OCT. LOTTANI APORTSOLY

ASSERTED ON 10 OCT, 'WE WILL THRON THE OUT, AND B VILL PIOR?

ALGERIANS HORE E PECTIVELY, THAN FREICH EVER DID."//

BE BIG SAS ISOLATED BARBER DISSTOPS IN TAS BANYLIE, BUT

I DOES NOT CONTROL COURTRYSTDE THIRE. BORROVER, EVEN BEFORE

CLASKES WITH MOROCCO, BERBEA REVOLT HAD AGGRAVATED HIS DIPPiCULTIES

S C RET.

AUIMIMTICATING

Cony Na.

---

## Page 2

onc

i indian.

TI NO INDEX

CLASSIFIED MES

38088Y

NG

REFERRED

INFO

WITHY. W1899

• CITE. DIR

86476

ORDECAN

VE POSTO

040. FAT

RVAL, TV UIN THIS 1A9HEE 0 11

LITYA TO GAIN, north, 1a

1, ADD IT

VS CONGORATION BRIBATHY.

2. CORNET CHINA - ALANTIAN C

UNIT CHINA: BAS OUTIN

ALGERIA A CEO MILLION LOSS-SINA SIT

HEY TANI CHOIT FOR AS 894

OIDXSCLOSED DIES.

Bes: 1009 C

TO ALARIANS

ITA KANUAT LAST C13. BLACK TO SUPPORT AL

CERSAR HATIORALIST

CHOI TO ALCE TA PIPEY THE LAVE INCLUDED SORT CASH IN ITS

NEY OFFERT IT HAS TA SINILAR ARDANORHENTS VITH OTAKA AFRICAN COUN

TRIES TUSSR LAS AVOIDED. BUCHA PRACTICE IN ITS AID PROGRABS.

BONU

INNICATIONS CHICONS INTRINTH IN ALGERIAN PETROLSON.

BALLED AMONG BY ONE

OrTICEAS

SB CB87,

YAO, THE ISSUING DIFICENS AROMIRITED:

AUIMENTICATINS

SHICCE

Carry to.

---

## Page 3

LAND. 13SA

PiG.

12000019

3.

CaL 519 75476

3. USBB-ALABRA: HO MILIT AND AGARNT BAS BERN ANNOUNCEO

BEKH MADE DURING DES MIN# BOURIDIKHUR'S RECENT VISIT TO MOSCON.

SORR 450 ALGERIANS ARE NOU BICHIVING MILIT TRAINING IN SOVIET

BLOC AND BOSCON MAY RIGARD PRIBENT IMPROVED STATE CP RELATIONS AS

PROVIDING A GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO BEGIN SUPPLYING ALGERIA vITE

4:: SOMALIRKPURLIC: - UB8R:' (/SOTALI COUT CH 10 OCT DICIDED

TO ACCEPT A S28 MILLION SOVIET CITEA OF MILIT ABBISTANCE, ACCORDING

TO A LIGH SONALI OPTICIAL, AND HOPES THIS VILL NOT TURE PROSPeCTS

FOR RECEIVING SUCE AID THON THE VEST.

JUST BIPORE INSTISO AT WITCH THIS DECISION AS MADE, PRISIN

ANOT RASCID SAID TAT IS 007E POULD VAR SOVIET LASTUCTORS FOR A

SHORT VEILE AND WOULD DEPEND ON IGYPT FOR MAJOR TRAINING AND

ICHNICIAL DICE, ABDIRASCID, SAID THAT ER HAD REJICTED CHINESE

ASAISTANCE:

THE PRIMM BXPRESSEHOCE THAT WEST WOULD CONDUCT A MAJOR

LET ASSISTANCE PROGRAM SIMULTANECUSLY WITH THE BLOC. DRSPITE

Croisy. on

SECURT:

THE ISSUING ORACEAS PROMISMOD

City rea

---

## Page 4

ORIG

DEFERRIS

& ROUTINE

INFO :. :::

75476

SONALI HOPES, CERAN AND ITALIAN MLIT, AID PLANS ARE LIKES TO BE

ADVISORY ANTECTIO: NO OTICIALS RECITE TOLD FLATTERS BORALI

PAND MAT ANT DEAL HIT SOVIO TOULD CONSOREE COMALLA S CHANCES

PASCURISO SIGNIFICAT VESTELL TUTE AGETSEARCE, ADITIAT TONI

VINCE DO PARATIVES ANTONIO A O ELLIO THE TRE POSES,

VOULD TAKE SUCH A SOMALI DECISION SENIOUBLY. BORN IS ENGIN

TO BS OPPOBED TO EXTENDING AID IP LOCADIECTO SACCEPTS ANY COMANIST

12, 212

ILIZA EYFASSISTICE. I/

CONCO: ADOULA GOUT IS PACING GRONING OPPORITION PROM

CONGOLESE LASCA, LEADIN

THE LADERS OF FOUR UNIORS, INCLUDING TARKE LARGEST,

STA T3

THAT THEY VILL HOT SIT ON PLANNID SPICIAL CONTASION ID DRAFT A

NES CONCO CONBTITUIIOS MILESS COVT 1S CHASED, MITOS ARDAR

PAREYTIS VILLING TENT PRES CASAVURO OR PRESSER ADOSLA, OR BOTH,

RAIN, IF THE REST Of CABINET IS DISKISSED.

USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTS THAT UNIONS ARE NOT CONSIDERING

A GENERAI. STRIXED TO KEFACH THEIR DEMANDS, BUT NOTES: THAT THRIR

ATTITUDES ARE MENING

TAS UNIONS ARE DEONSTRATING GREATER UNITY

"DINATINO

054.10.1, Rg

SECRET!

THE ISSUING PRICES PRONIBITED

OFFICIA

¡Coor No,

---

## Page 5

mtareeines

BBCRBT

- Da

ia1ir

nUrt.i

iNiO

CITL DIR

75476

AND BOUNCK RLIEVES THAT SITUATION COULD CHANGE RAPIDLY. LABOR LEADERS

HAVR BAID TRIR RANI AND FILE IS AS IID. UP WITE THE GOYT AB IT HAS

VITE PARLIANNT, WHICH KABAVUBU DISHISSED ON 39 8PFT.

PRUSTRATID BT RAMPANY INPLATION, FOOD SHOHTAGiS, AND UISE

PLOTINHT, UNIONS HAVE LONG CALLED TOR ECON REPORIS AHD IRHOVAL OF

BIGE BIVIIG, INCCHPETINT ALD'CORRUP CABINET HIMISTERS. A GINERAL

STRIKE OVER CIVIL SINVICE BALARIES VAS ONLY NAHROWLY, AVARTIN

IA LATE AGUT AM ANTTONIOS STRIRE OT TRACURRS OVER HOXPAYENT

OF SALAMISS DIGAN ON 7 OCT (CONI")

6: KINAY THHION BAS ILCHEASED AS CONRUEICE OF THE

TAILURE OE LOMPON CORITI TUTZONAL, TALSS TO BAACH ACRERIISIT DURLNG

TAIEITTO

THR CHNYAN OPPOSITION PARTY SUBPECTS THAT VITHIN A FEN DAYS

BRTTATA VILL IIPOSE A BONUTION TRAT VILL WRAION THB DOSITION CF THE

O NORXTT TRINES. TESY BELIIVE THAT COLONIAL SECRETARY SAXDYS WILL

KT PRI HINISTER KENYATZA:B DIRANDS TO LASE PROCEDURES POR AHKID-

INO TAB CONSTITUTION AND TO ANANT MORE AUTHORITY OVER POLICE AND

CIVIL NUTHORATY TO TIN CHUTIAL GOVERNHUNT

sROA BT

tiuG ISSUMO OrHCES PROMSTtO.

dsirrdipréniiao:

DFFICEA

Capy Mia,

---

## Page 6

UNIT

I: WINE?

SCRETE

-10

INFO

-B-

DI FED PI-D

ROUTINE

"CiTE DIR

75476

ALARIED OPPOSITION LEGEBLATONS IN HAIICHY RESOLVED ON 9 OCT

TO POSM THEIR BOTOSS TITO A SAPARATE SATR, DUT HAVE OUNCH BOS-

I THAT CAN LOT HIM COUNTO

BRITISH AUTHORITIRS BAYE, SAKHE PRECAUTIONARY ARCHERTY SASURES

AND THE CITA COVERT IS CONFIDAM IT CAN FAMI AM PIETANCES

SPICIAL POLICE BAYS BET DEPLOTES IU TIS POTENTALS MELOSIVE

BE VALL PET AN AEICH TOONS AN ON MEND (CONT)

TEARS //REPORTS PERSIST OF COUP BLOTTING BY ANTI-

BAATH POLIT AND MILIT ILENTS.

THE GOVY REAINS ALERT AXD

PROBABLY HAS PENETRATED TES POLITICAL GROUPINGS, THOSE ACTIYITRES

IT HAS SEVERELY TADOSED AND SONTACTED, MOLITARY DISSIDSITS HAT

HAVE CREATER PRESDON OY ACTION, SUT THEIR CAPABILITTES HAVE BEEN

GARNED BY THE EXFUSION CE BAATH PART? BIBERS INTO TAB OFFICER

* MASSAGE

An enterine

Arcada

THAN THE ISSUITE GENICE IS PROMIRITED,

the I Sikharten

Copy bya.,

---

