RETURNTO CIA *~
Background Use Only - - ?
+ Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH HO, fing

22

? cnief 1a vay 1955.
ne Sniet, MR (2-272 DATE HIESEISTSTEStnSEIES

FROM = Senior Hoprosontat ive,

GENERAL Opsrational/ INTEL
cpremc |= CPAYLIPYRR = Transwittai of Reporte
of

1, Prenamitted berovith are copies of THERIAULT reparte ani notes
os listed Boley, Hot inclufiod aro carbon copies of tho initial report
(plano vzéated) and the report covering the period 28 Deceaber - 14 January
as the third copy was not mado.

2. GHERIAULP roquosted thst, if possible, a set of his report bo
made available to him on hie return to facilitate preparetion of a mscter

roport om overall findings and iepreceions. ae

Enclosures Under separato cover
(Poushed 7 Kay 1955)

“ih Joa ~ 2 doa vo ~ 7 Her
25 Jen + 30 Jan 1B Kor = 16 Har
30 Jaa - 8 Fob v18 Mar ~ 30 Har
+F Yob ~ L7vod Interview with’ ,3. THA. a
10 Pod (1 pp) Bapr ~ 12 Apr
20 Foo ~ & Kar Notebook
of
Distributions
ig & 4 = Kyo
9 Kay 55 2 - Files

Ga2y 51-288



FORTS Sates TSMR OF apr ee srarenmnenrnt ee ETS NEEL LTE TELE GREE GAY

‘4 May 1955 .

l. Prior te my departure for vee York te handle the preliminary
debriefing cf THERIATLT, I discussed the feliowing subjects witb CNEA=5:

} In view of the fact that T'ENIAULT's expenses on her recent
© Initia have been ereater than was anticipated, 1,000

nnat funds have er are te te shortly deposited te her bank.
11 be done by sterile check. It {s to be accounted for
terms of the criginal centract.

~5 gugrested thet 7 tcke her reports up with me for
tation and ex i nm exarination on 14 May,
this uvpears unfeasible in view of the fuct that there are CI4
comrn Sndicatore and Ri symbols attached directly to the reporta,7

3) CNEA-S sumpested thet © pursue with THENTAULT the
assibtiity ef developing an interest in Frishna Menon, utilising
a cleared publisher who conld request ‘enon te write a book, This
u preach to be based on Menon's acute susceptability to flattery.

ested that TERIAULT be asked to review the
ence in order t- lay the groundwork for an
official invitation to visit th country being extended to tle
irire “ntater he future. suggested Sen, George and
Chester Bewles os possitie points of departure.

4) CNEA-5 5
areas of her inf

TAULT 13 to be informed that her reports have bean
gurable ass the Ambassador end to the U.S.
nt vis-u-vis ng for India.

Severn:

6) THERIAULT ts to be asked come to Washington for a day
or sc in the very near future for further debriefing. This ie
tn be arranged at her convenience.

7) In view of the fact that THENIAULT has been unwitting
of the Agency's role in sponsoring her trip, I suggosted that I

now make her witting in terms of the psourity involved. It
seemed advisable to me since it is likely that there will be
future contacts with THWRIAULT, CNEA~5 agreed to this.

®) THERIA'LT tg to be advised that she js at liberty to
dia any and all aspects of her trip with anybody with the
e: ception of the Agency's role in sponsoring it. oz.
tron Prosec Par Liftee

ss togn JONE
0B # eee age



©) In view of the vast amount of work that must be done,
i suggested that 7 plan to spend two days - 16 and 17 May ~
becomes neces.ary. ‘“n vrevious trips to discuss
AVLT's mi:sion wit’ her, 1 found that she frequently
“ad other commitments which made {t difficult to cover
adequately the material which f had amassed. If this is the
case on this trip, { should prefer not to press her. One
day's latitude seena the better jart cf wisdom. CiLA-5
agreed, Ve shall see, however.

1e)_ In the event that tt becomes necessary to reach me,
7 surgest that wife be asked tc get in touch with me,
okson 7~7018)) and that [ be asked ainply to call ny
i wit] then call on the sterile phone. For the ¢
one number _‘n ew York ts GELHAM &-25300!

3

a
2
2
iS:
2j
a
2
ae

SECRET SS



Premed frog

SEh
BFL
ONE

S
1
a

FroJoo'
ON:
~66 PS

(PpeR

%

3,

20

Be

“G8 sL1oations
LOGE SF
Polds sf >

Juv
Boxr
e

he

Joneral Cosaents. yf? + ae

I beve no. talged wath aany Ford Foundation »copi@ and i

Ti people. 4a dapresacd theds qualdty. They ofo workicy
herd snd are doing 4t in a oolfecffooing canner. § havo nob heard
one critsodon of t.ca from anybody, Thero aro a fea Guia, of cour
T hove not yet mot thea. They rb hore °to help Indfo caray cut
ber projcota ond her ddoaa® no one put 26. And they seca to Go
@ not only derocreticnily tut with a very reol wereth ond
sy.p-thy «2 yot they otey quietly in the background red take nono
of the zreaste But J feal nore trongay each weak & om hore

thst the work fs 60144 an@ 43 having Smzmenfously geod effcst in
rolieving tension end hostility betwoen the two countricde fhe
reguits of the potual work dra apppron’ now and hope hea reeently
increased anong Indiana, sleo their cam self-confideasa., when
confidenee ineron: ca, consitivenesa decrerses, of courses

Fro. ell J have picsed up, the fealing $a widesprend that
imbreandor Allen did e good job out here. fa one put ab, Pho
wan aznetly raght for the period was heres just ao Bowles
wee right for the epecieal pumtazt probles3s of his two yesra.®
Both Indian and .iorieons highly raise bath acae

ve hnve a prize im Evelyn Heresy snd soaghody ghor thank God
every naght that she is hero, she and. end Wf &acr ara
peaiagm tho wet/yrléved suericens ja north indda, certrinly.
avelyn Hersey igdnown throughout india. Sho was Sobtal wedforo
ntt.ehe at tho tn6-eoy beginning I thins in 2643. The only cas
attnehed to any ealsesy anywhere, I understond. Her work eco

to interpret the cociad chr-nges taisdng phace Sa Inddag to bessag
ware of the needs ang probiezs and kog these needs aki problecs
were boing ety «nd to offer her eerviecs and her experiensa
wheaever or wherever At wes asked foro hen the odainistratica
eh ngcd, she wns disaieced Republican GA the grounds that this
unc a n@a Sdoay nobody elso had ever done such a thing, that ia
nu other foredgo service «nd eo why should the U.Sodem A Hr.
tilen?s urgent insiotenas, che wag sent back, this tine unier
the »ogio of T&I- Sho is, however, doing the sexo jobs Ecr
infivenge is very wide; sho io sdaircd end loved by Literally
thou: nde of Indians froa the high echoloms down to the ovecpera
ono -ther hardjans, he 4s called on for e:vico 4a mmerccs
ficlds end by very high offActala, Sho works behind tho eccncs
and focls thet her vork vould be ruined were sho given orcdss
for whet che hoe actually done. sho 4s vavid ond full of lige
and one would hardly -all her self effacing; end yot her wos

4c donc alaoct anonynouely, I have been around her enough to ace
how wido her cdrcle of don friends i953 end how eonatoatly

end continuou: iy they stresa through her house, sho goca ove
Iindée. Hos trsveldcd moh wre than 209 thoujend mdacs.. she say
in reocat zwontha che ha: felt absolutely no amtagonica towsrd her
re rp Aderdorn, she is ohrewd, hes cherp eyes and earag fs
knorlegzahle ideeceastatore 4a nobodyis fook) 49 strongly antic
coumungs' %; 46 warahe rted and iat cotually Gexible. one of
the best ainds J heve run dnto since coming ott.

a
i vish <3 had five tines the pey~le in TEM. They carefull
ewohd politica, Ethane ie do wdisos Oly TMT OTN
Pat yeh fey fee bevenistite



&

6,

7 CAE ND OTR MotB

nw NODES IELS
a

Genera. Joaments. (continued.)

4 very geod proje;t has regentiy bee: inunched, It ig

oriled The Delhi fradning and orientption Gontre for

Poroign Technied: ns in Indio. Tids 4a the scgond tine it

hoe been held, I think, it begins today, Jan. 24. Gontimes
for two weeks, (The first one worked out a fine shore
bibldogrsphy on India and a iittic brochure on "Poods
eveilable in North India.) hie second course covera

the Indien villrgo, with visite out to vill¥egesy Indian

art, erohitecturo, dance; Indian history; religion; Yelen

din india; other religions and philosophioas Indian fenlly

life and customs; kealth probsens and rep .urecss educetional
problena urban probleas; rural une:ployzent an eid; tho

role of foredgn aid in India; diectiaaion of the Pave Yeor :
Plan. piece et
it is the kind of briefing that evory foreigner coaing to
Indig,BHousd have. It is open to eli of thea’ we were
dovited eiaply ce gueste and ahnli attend sang of tho noctings.
Piiags sre chowny trips to art gslleries and museums, eta,

Mise Hersey hee hed mc? to do with thie; sleo Dre bouglas
Eeninger. and jrobrbly others, tuo, Indians will do zoat
of the briefing.

Z shall write later avout the Pive Year Plan. am stil ay
etudying 4t. Shall have s number of interviouws with the ¢
planners, or vith « few of thes. Shall eleo go out on aeveral ¢
of the projects, Thiae eoezs inportant to no for soedad

changes end how they sre made bro 2. £36 Fhe polatseal
pioture’ oan cert-inly not be dnderstood if the cultural and
voeinl pioturee are not etudied and analysed carefully,

%

we «re enclo;
Ry. Nehru, ur. }
Gongress Party

tugs fea
2 ane

egrpte of

hea aade by 4
uh

get week at the



1400000.

. ate A A At (Wy on 1
04¢q ond Ende of Inforaation: 22

OED
i. Ry Piob.told ae that the Goumunists are organising the
demestia workers of New Delhd . Lest wock there waa a
goeting 2% oyahs at Yadda Gata called together for thio
pur oo¢, The weex bef ro the bearera (ce? tho cusp ara)
“Gro celled together, The Gomuniotsa aro going about At in
s ohresd way; snaking very reasonable dozanila, euch 06 o bal?
day off ach woe, a rise of perhaps 4 or & ee9 a zonth
in wages. 4 Goumundst dn every home will really be sonothingd

4
He <*ryo there is iittle eeativity of Gongroso party or Soodelist d
party anong lsbor groups. The work 4a bo. done by
Goasurists. Phey, sonshow,’ have the soney @o thes
organs sattinad pork whise thoro és little nonoy ansng reguider
workers Gue to weakness of dadustry, cuall meabar ond low sages
xB of the vorkeroyd.Ho is troubled over lac of ootavity
esong the deaoorrt £6 groupa in istor cireles. Saya he hse been
here cniy 5 sonths end ernnot ce yet soe the pacture clearly.

RQ, Phe stato Dept.%s coldness about peraitting fo...d4ea to vost
the -iracn dn Ghana g: vo the U. Se a very bad preso ont here.
It we very clover strategy on the part of Ghinay && uno bed
otrategy on our part to appear cailous to the feclings of tho
feailies, Paniiy affection rugs deep out hero. It enother
one of our many saeil blunders whieh sonchow loon so large
vhea viewed the hundreds of ailiions out here. , If oconchou, i
everytody céudd count up to ten before opoaking, and hint B98

how China is going to tego &t but how tho entire area of ania
Will resect. Thowe Caaiides couad heave been told quietly end
pereonelly thet 4° they wanted to go they vould not bo protestsd
by en aacricep prooport; they couid even havo been seoretly
urged not to gog but the blatant prese relosoe. . . . Forgive ey
e@itorialising, I au sure X am not oupposed to Go &ts bo3 cao ta
very close here to the sind and heart of é¢s49 end onnest help
boing evare of these reactions of the peuple. anyone cho loves
the U. S. oennot help but wish thet max ow o;okesaen could apeek
gore Coftly end nore tnotfully. a broggart or bully is dial

a! ell luaea beings. fo have strength to finoy to brendich thst
etrangth offends.

Tho Fines of Indta (Jam, £6) hao excellent editoriel oa the csv
sochalistéc socdoty good aa outitacd by Dcksu and Gongresa perky i
leaders. "Docs avadd anris » revolutionary ohaft in @sa77G03 poligha
o + ce o Ald that At neant was on ecknoclcdgasnt of the enging2 +,
aeportant role of the public eoctor in tho national aye a |
role that ws olrenady defined with greater preciaica £9 tha
4asustrial policy resolution. Phere ues nothing to andica$e thst
there wovid be cky new cagroachaeat oa the ophere resergsd to
private caterprizo, end the foars expressed cutsida tho Gongreaa
on that seore were, therefore, unjustified, neither tas theca
eny justification ror the apprehension that the aca cbhjostiva
@000% a rodical departure frou the Snrye: idead, «6 o Baad
mattered reolly was not the labol dig Wos given the acy CPScI o-
bat the exteat to which in gotual prootise dt eoald ATH

the proGustion of groater woelth ond in ita mre eqaitaklo
Aletrata What tas oignifSeant . . . wag that it should

Toate

ERE CRE a

iD -REPRODUS TIONS

SARD -REPRODURI

tion,



° : i
pete - - Lot eu ote Opera y mana aA CDH

"Odds pnd ene of Soforeat. op (cont.) Art(N@ oA Wes :
A CO Ff 22 ;

hove boen coapyelled at this stego to occk a sore ,opule? dabed
for Ata eoonsate and socdnl podiodes.. . . If this coasitacas io to
bo acre than » design to steal the opponontat clestoral thundap, the fy
Gongreas Governaenta at the Geatre and in he States have :
danedintely to act about the task of translating tho new prinolples
dnto policica. . . . Fhe only way to aake the polisy of Gongress
Governaenta esccord with Gongrese principles ia self eriticism and

yet thoro mum vere responsible Gongressaen at Avodi who sau

danger even in the condenmation of aslpraetices 4 Gonugrssaasae

e « « . fhe roed to full enployment o= for whieh tho Gongresa hes

for the firet tiag laid down e tine-limit - © is by no aeans Gaoye.

Xt degands e coaete renovation of iife in the countryaide on the one
head and speedy industrinlisotion making the country as salve
eufficiont ne possible on the other, (eto.)

Digest of aya
EXEPT ee Neahaients ape on tan, 2Abh.

Ne spoke of the unsuitability of totelitordonisa in the deaooratia
Ropublio of India and the inadoquacy of ca,dtolien, stating that
thore was left only e Soodelistio approach open to the courtry.

He statos that the accoptence of tha Socdnlistis society as sdend
Reant the nationalicotion of institutions that could bo sapeadately.
Retionaldscd with ndvantoge. Phe presuchion ia so desing, sald

Ur. Gestraskh, was that Soodsliscd prodlotion would bo aste
profitable, uo, however, cautioned that 4f experfense balied that
vicu, the atop aight have to be retraced,

Q

Ho stated that « Sooigdistic Adcal which rogeived the support
of tho people could ,ohicve the tuo objectives of incresging
metional incowe end enhancing individual dividend.

Ho otated that Indio hed catablished econoase otability though
at a rother low lovel of prosperity during the firo% Plan pericd,
io cold the credit for the ochgaveacss went EY Borely to ezozoada
Gaksgeacat end plenning but inandcd other fad, ara a10ng thea
acodotence froa fricadly nations. Tho Tnitcd ftates, he said,
hod contributed the largest ahare of foreign glad.

(PAP PRK
NE

éQaEdss. Be cee

3ss $4nd4 and ie. Uoden (pravate seeret: of Hra. Geadhira
ond reoeption clcris at Prine Usndotese Ponce Gees a eo37
cup of tea in their quarters told GYthe £ ouing story,

Uhilo én Ghins, et Pirot big banqcd given thea, Ip. Batsa end
bio doughter (dad othero) vero erved Gacy baby’ ave Base
Gapped hoacy. ro. Gandhd (his doughtor) was co ehocticd
tealarensenataern at eho oschs end turned o00z6 Eone of thea
So : ac] Wi 3
thiie they were da eal aa not ever sorved aggin to thea

sore - SE a nt a ee a ho caine ean ee terae on maE

pe
