# 104-10146-10128

## Page 1

104-10146-10128

CONFIDENTIAR

Wishing CC 19- 0113/x

June 18, 1979

Mr. Edmund L. Henshaw, Jr.

Clerk

U.S. House of Representatives

Washington, D.C. 20575

Dear Mr. Henshaw:

Forwarded herewith are comments concerning the final report

of the Select Committee on Assassinations, listing a series of

points in the report that raise security questions.

These comments

cite the section in question, the reasons for changing them, and

suggested ways for handling the matter.

I trust you will have no problem in accommodating these

suggestions.

Sincerely,

Malaner

Enclosure

Distribution:

Orig - Adse

1 - DDCI

1-

ER

- OLC/Subj

1 - OLC/Chrono

1

- OGC/Rininger

1

- OS/Sullivan 03

1

- CI Staff/Sednaoui/

1

SE Div Sumption

1

LA Div/Sturbitts

- OP/Haudescheldt

1

- DDS&T/Clark

1 - OLC/HSCA/Holmes

RETURN TO CIA:

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

22507

OLC/ SDB/ ksn

CONFIDENTIAL

I DECL EREVW ON

EXT BYND € YRS BY

REASON

21030

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

ATTACHMENT TO DDCI LETTER OF

18 June 1979

FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

Page 60 DII-PATS, Footnote 4. Use of the word "recruited" is.

inaccurate in the accepted praseology of intelligence. The word "recruited"

refers to controlled agents, which are very different from cooperative

private citizens who do not have a clandestine role..

Use of the word in

this context could harm future participants, if the program were resumed.

Delete "recruited" and insert the word "contacted" in its place. (C)

Page 72 DII-PATS, Third paragraph.

Second sentence should read

"According to an affidavit that McMillan filed with the committee, her

only employnent with the Federal Government was a 30-day temporary

translator."

Delete remainder of sentence. Reference to the Joint

Publications Research Service reveals a classified cover operation

in conjunction with other foreign governments. (C)

Page 75 DII-PATS, Fourth paragraph. Last sentence in paragraph

should read "de Mohrenschildt's CIA file contained several

reports

submitted by de Mohrenschildt to the CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia."

Delete remainder of sentence.

See 26 March 1979 letter to G. Robert

Blakey from S. D. Breckinridge. Inclusion of specific titles indicates

areas of pointed Agency foreign intelligence interests. (C)

Page 76 DII-PATS, Third paragraph.

In the next to the last

sentence of the quotation, delete the remainder of the sentence following

the phrase "he furnished fragmentary intelligence...," which refers to

the attempt to obtain financial loans from the Agency and is of a confidential

nature and not relevant to the purpose of the investigation. Agency

confidential information on intelligence sources is protected as part

of the operational necessity of maintaining professional confidence in

the relationships.

Revelation of this sort of personal information

could be injurious to the ability of the Agency in this respect. (C)

Page 5 DADE-PATS, Exhibit No. F-7*. Delete "Ryan to Nosenko."

This reference describes the true name of a CIA operations officer

currently an active employee of the CIA.

He is under cover and his

identity should be protected. (C)

CONFIDENTIAL:

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

APPENDIX TO HEARINGS•

VOLUME VI

Page 262, Paragraph

of "former CIA employee," (698). Add the words "an alleged" in front

The point here is that it has never been

made clear that the man known as Carswell was the same as a CIA employee;

there is reason to believe that he was not. (C)

Page 26/, Figure IV, lower right photograph. A photograph of

a tormer employee, associated in the report with a man known as Daniel

Carswell, should be deleted. The photograph was provided the Committee

for identification purposes only and is not to be used. The employee

in question was involved in many sensitive overseas operations.

To-

avoid exposing his identity in this manner and thereby certain clandestine

photograph

harmful to his business. (C)

VOLUME X

Page 17. Footnote (58). Change "Ross Crozier" to "Ron Cross."

Previously the name had been changed to protect the identity of an

Agency employee and this was simply an error in ommission in the

process of reviewing and printing the draft report. (C)

shelved when "derogatory' data about Banister was discovered. "'

Paragraph (484). Delete sentence "The scheme

was

This

reflects methodology and standards used in the selection and rejection

of individuals for operational purposes.

As a general practice in

maintaining the viability of its relationships with operational assets

it is an important procedure to protect the personal confidential

information concerning individuals. It is noted that we think that

Footnote (64) is misplaced. (C)

Page 156, Paragraphs (39) and (40). The presentation makes

it perfectly clear, to anyone who refers to the newspaper story,

who "the Cuban official" was. That man's identity must be protected

for his own personal safety. Although the basic operation has been

described in general terms the identity of the man in question has

never been revealed publicly. It is suggested that the following.

general language be used:

"The writers of the TF report were concerned with

these assertions because aspects of the newspaper story

were similar in some respects to certain elements

involved in Phase I of the CIA operations. The possibility

of some relationship with the CIA operation attracted the

attention of the CIA."

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

VOLUME XII

Page 56. Paragraph (33). Delete sentence "In a fitness report

for...and searches for and develops new sources." See 26 March 1979

letter to G. Robert. Blakey from S. D. Breckinridge, in which it was

noted

that the fitness report is a classified document and suggest

that the duties of the employee in question be described in genera!

terms to the effect that "his duties in Dallas were contacting individuals

in the area who had information on foreign subjects." (C)

Page 56.

Paragraph (36): Sentence should read "De Mohrenschildt's

CIA file contained several reports submitted by de Mohrenschildt to the

CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia." Delete remainder of sentence.

See the comment concerning the same subject regarding page 75 DII-PATS,

Fourth paragraph. (C)

Page 58. Paragraph (44). Delete "Jerry G. Brown" whose name

appears twice.

Delete "Gale Allen, a Department of Defense." Allen

•appears three times. Both individuals are currently employed by

GIA. (C)

Page 61. Paragraph (65). Delete "Robert Gottschling," who is '?

currently an Agency employee.

Page 62. Paragraph (73). Second to the last sentence should

read "Dryer said one of those contacts was a person who worked for

French intelligence and cooperated with the CIA. (189)" Delete last

sentence. The operational relationship remains classified. (C)

There are a considerable number of blank pages and missing pages in

the materials forwarded to us. We are unable to certify as to the

content of those pages.

It is presumed that this material will be

provided for review prior to publication. (U) .

CONFIDENTIAL

---

