o4-0256-(0204
na

HE
> 5

Gn

9 March 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

FROM: John F. Sullivan, Jr.
Security Analysis Group
SUBJECT: HSCA Interest in James B. Wilcott
and Individuals Assigned tol tation

1. On 7 March 1978 the Office of Legislative Counsel
(OLC), on behalf of the House Select Committee on Assassi-
nations (HSCA), requested a records check on James B.
Wilcott, born 27 September 1931. A search of Security
Records Division disclosed OS#109 301 in the name of James
Bernard Wilcott, Jr., born 27 September 1931, a staff
employee (Finance Officer) fro 957 until his resignation
in 1966. Wilcott served in IStation from May 1960 to
July 1964.7 ba 2

2. On 8 March I advised you of current HSCA interest
in reviewing files on some 18 staff employees formerly
assigned to tation.

3. Mr. Pat Carpentier, OLC, was advised by the under-
signed on 8 March of Office of Security reservations in
making files on the above 18 staff employees available for
HSCA review, particularly without knowing what this was all
about. Mr. Carpentier subsequently advised that the Committee
was interested in reviewing only Wilcott's file.

4. On 9 March 1978 Mr. Harold Leap; an HSCA staff

jemployee, informed the undersigned that Mz... i t has
falleged that at the time he was assigned bane igeation,
1 aware of the fact that Lee Harvey Oswa ad been a
B-3 4 Station agent. When queried how Wilcott would have
mown about this, since Oswald was already,,i viet
Union at the time of Wilcott's assignment t Mr. Leap

indicated that Wilcott received his information sécondhand.

5. Mr. Leap related that the HSCA does not desire to
review files on the foregoing 18 individuals but does plan
on interviewing all of them. These 18 individuals were:
identified to the HSCA.by Wilcott as people he remembered

being assigned to hen he was there.
An : —
Jolin F. Sullivan; Jr.
: rpor Gi E2 IMPDET
SESPET CL BY 007472

