‘KEting Chief of station, Msdrid
Counter Espionage
Lois TEDESCHI, aka Lnfe TslBCHE

fora

=)

bees

Tera

 OIEN-14463, 29 May 1961

Ca receipt of reference, Madrid Ststion traces wore Pr
with negative results, Traces were aluo requested of the
and on 2 Aucust 1941 they inforaed us that they hed no recol q

Subject in their files, In this ease the aleo carried cut
trsces in the files for KULARK.

Ese SeEsIOUS EDION
PUSH Fos:
S138 5-204 AND'S1.79
wraty AHE OBSOLEE



DISPATCH

Chiat of otatten, ixienos 4
Diets 22 ates 7
Chict, wit a

” CeRtet oF Sbitton, Bonen 13 Inty 1962
RE “43.9” — (CHECK “"X” Crue)

NO INDEXING REQUIED,

INDEXING CAN B€ 79GED
bY QUALIFED "B DEE ONLY

ca
~~ 6

4

OLN=1G63, 2 May 196

Filo chocks conducted om Subject thronsh| aro nomeives

BLHLIS Ke

Distritmtions
grbaenos Aires

/.



DISPATCH | sscaze a

Chief, WE (Attention XUDZSK). Gevpeneemrsbestancteee
201-6145

Chief of Station, Vadrid

FROM Chief of Base acs. m a

‘ae

13 dune 1961

Counter Espionage Car ee
luis TEDESCHI, possibly Inis TEDECHI eS MAPED FOR NOTING —_
7x | NO Nouns rraueto
pcronerouetPor your information TNOERING CAM BE SUDGED
BY QUAUFIED HO OCSK ONY

OIRW-18463

There are no base file on |tracos on Subject

Fire: Sjhiedtesals

@ine B. Friedwald
13 Jane 1961

Distributions
3 - Headquarters
2 Mearid ~
2 = Piles



Chiefs of Station, Rome, ‘Madrid;

Chief of Station, Bueros Aires

Chief, vz
SENS Counter Espionage
Luis TEDESCHI, possibly Luis TEDECEI

FOTO FEGOHTD WEFEFENGES

See paragraph 3

1. A source wo has given highly relieble information in the past, and
whom we bave no reason to question, has stated that during 1943 one Luis
TEDESCHI was either being considered for recruitment by/or was actually work-
ing for the RIS. According to the source, he was known to bave been active
as a member of the Spanish Commmist Party. The address used by TEDESCHI
during early 1943 was Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

2, The Buenos, Aires Station hee determined that a Luis TEDESCHI, born
2 February 1918, is listed in local police files az living at El Dozador 3150,
telephone 58-3717. Vurther investigation is being corducted there. Unfortu-
nately, Headquarters does not have the date and place of birth of Subject of
paragroph 1, The source has indicated that Subject was probably born in Italy
and may have been active in the Spanish Civil War 1936-39. This, of course,
could explain his involvement in the Spanien Commnist Party.

3. It is requested that cheek Station and
<Base‘ files for any traces of J [contacts may be
Spproached for any information availal 5

4, Please address replies in this matter "Attention: ‘KUDESK."

GERALD } HUTTAHD

Distribution:
Rome



DRAFT
7 February 1902

MEMOPANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/Project

SUBJECT:

1. This office is extrenely inter-sted in obtaining ail available information

on ore Luis TZ:
IM intima,
Aires, ,in the early part of 1943, at which time he allegedly vas of interest

SCHL, who was reported to de residing at Pichincha 969, Suenos

to the PIS. The attached document refers to a Lus'

Hi residing at
this adaress in 1yu2 and to an individual by the name of TELESCHI wno had
resided at Estados Unidos 0366 in 1yué. Apparently the information as shown on

the attached aocument was ovtained

2. Wa would appreciate having you tell us if you know of any way we mizht

locate feferred: to and possibly any other

to TESS etd be Yi, Ofer a Besttienp hap in
: {' 5

BIRCH D. O'NEAL
Chief, CI/STG

Attachment: 1
Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee
2-cf

cvsof__



~~") DISPATCH

we

“Chiof of Patios

| etauaian
Eye NON

Tat

Chief, Wit
fF

San

Counter Intelligence
RC REQURED REFERENCES

See Paras. 3 and h
HABA@9016 of lh November 1960
y

1
of birth of the Luis TEDIS:

4s stated in Hilii-6515, our

Headquarters recrets that it hae been unable to learn
CHI who, according tw a usually re
considered for recruftnent in 19:3 by the RIS,

the early part of 1943 was Pichincha

TEDEDCMT (Cors

the date and place
liable source, was being
or was actually working for the FIS.
ported that the address used by TSDESCH1 during
969, Suenos Aires.

source re:

cover address
Also one Tut:

2. Collsteral infornation on Luis TiO-SCH of Pichincha 969, Suenos Aires,
has been found in a 192 docunent which anvears to have been based on censorship
reports. ‘his document indicates that T: ‘s address, as given above, was a

for a LDS (Valon Bemocratiea Sspanola) nan‘festo sent from Cubs.
CHI, Estados Unido 336&, Buenos Aires, was civen as a cover address

in a secret writing meseage.
is attached,

3. It is hoped that a
Bl Domedor 3150, Buenos Aire:
fruitful. Headquarters will
this individual you may be al
with Communist and/or RIS ac!

kh. &s.KUDESK 48 currently handling this case,

PEDWOOD not be usede

Attachments 21
ict, aa DRPRICN SYMBGL AND NUMBER
stributio sae
Bi ns i qc
Orig. & 1 ~ Addressee, tl TAT in
th attachment
oe _ BECRET ¢ POL-2b92K7
ese = SRGINATING
| RE
[nee ae ae Ea].
nr ELD tor 201- -——F COORDINATING
ROUT a oseaus

= CI/SIG, 1 at

Rea

ee orn sant

A copy of the pertinent portions of this document

unilateral surveillance on the Luis TEDSDCH Living at

a, 1f instituted as the station planned, will be

be extremely interested in any further infornation on
ble to develop, ag it 1s possible that he may be linked
tivitios in Cuba as well as being ueed locally by the RIS.

it te requested that the slug

OLIVER G. GALBOND

>

NE §3. wee weeners come, oven assim me

~o =

pares RELEASING

Gticars sch
om

qc. gaa Men ae

‘DISPATCH



na

femur

FEM 4 Ho maar, Ravaya, OUEL :

j oybe

TRILQ001/62, TRILC'S/42,

TAL 2
9/a5ss

sesrexoed, L
aU... (02
alas be te Ta;

» aid TPL.1M 201/42 cover cr-.ps of ro; urte en

samo subject.

covers 6 greup of reccrte on the Bpartah ;olitiod
scene, poseibly froz the sano cource ap the
above, which aay ce VICENTZ URI3K, the Ca-sunist
Loaste: wiquerters sre in CUBA. See

alec S7/42, SP .1a974/a2, SER. 19282/42,

Lo shawn by PRILISS26/42 to be a cover adcrves for
CA RSPASCLA) Manifosto eent fro: Cuba, Be say
SSTADOS “S523 8366, whe ia given as a covar adcrese

in the #," essere in TRI,LA725/42 (secret).

WHS:

Agi-



DISPATCH

Chief, WD
Chief, SxD

DOCUMENT MiGROFHL

‘Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

INDEZING CAN BE P-2GED
Or QUAUFED RO Cése ONLY

1, In view/ of the fact that Subject dispatch presented a
possible lead to an RIS agent, it was decided to do a unilateral
check on TSDEDCEI rather than refer the matter to liaiso: Asa
result of investigations undertaken by-EIP.IA-1, the Station learned
thats }

Inis TEDEDCHT

Is, listed in the files as
Living at El Dosasor 3199, with teleph umber
58-3717, and hes no record 0: police offences.
‘This individual was born on 2 February 1918,
“ yee staat

2. If possidje, it is re-uested that Headquarters attempt to
confirm the above date of birth with the source of reference, The
Station plans to institute a unilateral surveillance on Subject, and
will keep Headquarters informed of pertinent developments,

L arercer—!

Distribution:
3- Chief, TD
1 = Chief, SED
1 = Chrono
1- File: 201-6115

fee Swe

0) -29929



“DISPATCH [scars

Chief of Station, Buenos Aires:

Chief, WH Division
wexet Ceneral-Counter Eeplonage
Speeific-Luis TIDEDCHI*

TOGO REFERENCES.
See Para. 2

1. A souree who has given extremely reliable information in the past,
hos stated that, during 1913, one Laie TSDESCHI was seither being considered
for recruitment by the.RIS or was actually working for the RIS. TaDuSCHT “~
was known to have been an active member of the Spanish Coreunist Party.

The addrees used by TEDESCHI during the early part of 1943 was Fichincha 969,
Buends Aires, Argentina. : aa gecesi

2. Our source was unable te provide further information on TEDESCHI
and Headquarters’ files contain no pertinent identifiable information on

him, It is requested that you check all available records
for any information on TEDESCHI that may be
available.

OLIVER G. GALBORD,

SBCREP

oma = Cr
24/SL AEGEgerter dra”
~~ EOORDINATING



SUBJECT: Luis TEDESCHI

1. A Source, vio has given extremly reliable a
information in the past, stated that, during 1953,
Subject was either teing considered for recruitment by
the RIS or ws actually working for the RIS,

2, Subject 1s known to have been an active
member of the Spanish Cammist Party. Toe addresa
7 used by Subject during the eerly part of 1943 ws
: Pichincha 9, Buenos Aires.

3. It is requested that Latin Anerican,’as well

. as fyanish ani Partuzuese stations be asked to check
availsbls| for any possible traces cn
V

Bubject.
eae



REPRODUCTICH ROUTING SHEET
_ BRANCH eee & BLDG.
Cait Spt ie/sie | 1¥e8 2
{!

ene,

f=

Taneueer

Pa Ae

‘SECRET





i SERUT

al,

TRemonY MADE AT | DATE, | PERIOD COVERED
Say coer 43 [is caretoy

cification of ine

ae is being us

Spanish Consucist Party in ©

esekSS, Ib isp

e ena is not conciust
honed thet, 57 u2ine it os at
more concrete cetalis re
tes in Cuba, as well as

for

Party's present
teation of individuals nemed
can be obt + Coptes of this rerort are
bet shed to our field stations in textco cnc Suanos
zh eh as adérccses used by the Party in 1543 include
eeveral in those countries.

ten (2

: econ CL) easter:
pe ama sBuenvs Aires (1)
+ Files (2)
as fe Ho other distre

SECRET



Tava W6y
uenes Alres



363 altos

y Pocito

tentene hen
efo Prenciscs ‘
SL Cleveland Square” i
London ‘i. 2, England.

New Yor

3B. Enelesure to TH on expenses, cites paynents
tos .

Source A reporte

j : QQ) cae

Licep 4

(2)

the Sranish &

in front of iecation in Cuba

meopees | a result of Reeution of ten leftist unders
: ground workers in Spain. dees

be MSon of

» From Source A it

; “s



secret &

. Aires and

Joaquin

wa 3215055-

R that
(uy)

Portugal

(1) In Nerch 1247 it
Francisco" :


ned _in reference

TULALIO, ¥



5S. In eddition to the tn:
been clannod

ager

sorvo Iizble or rs
roports Tiie377 ond [3
no inquiry regarding hin is be


Via

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH NO, OZ Dh=39 0

DATE: 10 “orech Jory
'
DPOr Sentor Rep, Rone. |g
Pad

Attacned kereto is a sur

Trieste which sas prepares

Enclocure: 1 G2 report.
6 March 1954
Distritations

3 = Heacguartcrs w/encl
2 = dome w/encl

Rl COPY

relative to possible disturbances in
the rectiny &

died in references

§
i
j



vA: piseatc wo. 0224-23 2 4
CLASSIFICATION .

we: ¢ ‘2 DATE! 32 pena —

FROM 1 Retin» Chied,| iasor i0p., Roo .

SUBIECT: cenemm— SEL i

wear Sia Of

Attached herets fs a curary of s¢gorte relative to poscible dictursnecs i

Trieste which ws prepared Uy C2/J.UC? for tiv rectin, cecertied in referenca.

Umer 3, blevine

Enclosures: 3 C2

: GYarch 19¢h

Diotritntions
3 = Meadquartcrs w/ened
2 = kone F/cacl

CUSSIFICATION


tha ta certita rector of his oa : 4

Jutewted to 9 Meg ty TAS


saeticn core, a
eirenee the losy er: quoted te favo
+ tr tag ef roy tie rolteo.

votrd Ttaltna natteraltet,
ore no planu on tle yart ef ital!



te tr nin a sas
vould, no dit ty tA
cates ov
routes ¥

pied te

etre
che yodiee

1
ta trivcle
to ia or

. a that €:
careiore,

ce sters, th:
} cores ef cay: Sa esa viii +
proer slow,
a. Lea
pose on 16 ‘ar to avoté a r-rst :


¢
£
2
a
cc



via: ALR

To

FROM:

SUBJECT: cence —

WePe

Tara

+ Chief, of

bate: 2

Chil of Micion,

oF

Senior

Astle

a

sone “7ST Letivitt

THES’ 2697 STTAW3697, catea

S and Plans for 20 varch 195k,

Lb Jancary 1954

Approxinavely
of "Girvane Ttalis™
Anzosed on stzdents +

it a new clen:

at an

presents

he sentences
he

destine orgenization, corpoted of aoproxinately
YSI and other parties, is ie:

reed
STI is possisl;

Salvatore 552771.)
to twenty-five nea, ea
to rewura frea Zeno curing th
for this erganizatio:
supplied by pronixeny
ganization is being
the latter attempts

‘The action squad
At the present tim: t.cy have
to te the fo
20 March will be their day of
are lescers of action squats:

Consta:
Aur:
Pasquale 2
Orazio Zax

A sezsa (Eau)
Natale ;2=A

to evade any responsibility therefor

wtion of pleas £

iy identical with
25 of action squads of twenty
‘TT was expected

ty in ciffermat locations to aiseuss prozress
no headquarters. Their principal task appears
for demonstrations on 20 Maren. They stata that
Tevenge sgarast policus ice following persons

4

vino DS ICO
BALTSi9

2056019 ~
» brother of Duilie SANNA



The following data is

caved 19 January 195k.

6. Gri verse (tou),

REGDEFS we~ in tne Puflet Gallop

Date of inforsation is Ie January 1

A, in Piazza Golaond:

$ trip to Re:
on i3 January, end haa
e gros.
demonstratiogs on 26 Yarche It was ci

Serr b

ided to use acid in

in linited qhantities against the police.

¥SI arms stored there.

30 January 195b

Distributien:
3 > Heacquarters:
ui = Rona

nager of the Ridotto in the Rossetti Theater, keeps

Michael L. Rosemont

. The following °SI

d left for Rone
nea Trieste that
eting elso discussed plans



aprenap

ington (1)
-Rugistry (2)



“4 7

Date_of Information July 1952. Ef 2272
Country: ITALY

Subject : Tho S.7.I.%, Keehino Tool Factory, "Init,

Remarks :

Source: Bolfoved reliable, based on docurontary evidences

1¢ 7-30-40



te

baa ite

yas and/or -redue.s on a sub-contracting basis the

types oF recuinca i=

eehine tosls for the maut.ctur: of cicroa berin: balls, steel

wo. bearing bulls, eylintries} roller t

eoniexs rolicr be ~rings,
ceges for ball bearings, external ~nd internal rings for ball
‘bearings, sczing needles, bicycle acccacorics, fount for typczriters,

cecentrie prcescs for hot end cold stomping, scndpapcring cachinea,

smeolal grintcrs, oseill=ting grind:ra, a ketara, rotary rol-ing
ra, splining machines,

‘112s, costrol instruments, pacanatie h~

he ‘With the cxecytion of som very cml) itcs, the cachins designed

by th: firm arc not cover.d by potcats,

8 Pestinotion of Qutrut, . : ee ete

‘The fira's products ar. sald on the’ howe -markct,



1
{
1

. wishes: Spain to enter. the:war, except the Falenciste,

TO e Si. Lg T!HESCNT, PICHINCRA 969, BUENOS AIRS, ARGENTINE,
Bth Wy to 14th puzust 1942 4 Spanteh bray

+ ILD SY CRMMISTS §“Y,4/,...
SFR SPAIN. ‘ _

PASS COMDITIONS IN SPAIN + FOP*7S
Z INT VISES WITH PASS!

Tais ccver ccnta‘ns Rerorts Nog. S50 ~ 3, SSE - 8 and 871, compiled
from interviews with -ereons vw» have recently left Spain, and describe tho
attitude cf the & h peo-le to the war and to their Gov-rnment, the extent
of Garman penetrati-7 in Brain ent of Spanish aid ‘o the Axia, the activities
-olitheal parties of the Richt and Left in Spain, and renerd
the country. Thie ercup cf reports oontains o-intons
Palanist sympath-sers.

BREVZOVS RBCO2S1 3S60
: 556.

)
TRI10001/42, TRI,116°S/42,
TRL. 24527, and TRI.14201/62 cover gro:ps of repurts on the same subject.

8/4555 covers a group of reports on the Spanteh politica
: scene, possibly from the same source ag the
above, which may be VICENTS URIBE, the Coamuntet
leader, whose heaiquarters are in CUBA. See
also ee BIR.14974/62, BER, 19252/42.

ESTADOS '"X'D03 6358, who is given as a cover address
in the sew message in TRI.14725/42 (secret).

REPORT Ho) 350

< Results of our first converaati n With a :cung Ban from TORREL VA,
SANTAKDR, about 28 years cld. At the veginnin; cf tie wer Le was in the
amy in EOROCCO and spent the whole war in Franco's army. He comes from a fanily
of small yerare-cwmers. Woither he n.r any of :ie fanily nave telonged t any
political party cr syndicate although bie sympat:des have aways Deen on the left.

SPANISH ATTITUDE TO THE RETTWE (ND THE WAR. — He eays that the imense
majority cf the Scanish peor @ is against Franco end the Falange, workers, peasants,
esployees, bourgeois, big and small end a large provortinn of the soldiers

and the Ryquetes. He saya that everyone hopes for the victory of the Allies.

Init there is a blind trust, especially when the U.S. entered the war az the

U.S. and England are the nost powerful countries in the world,especially with

the essistance of Russia. Only the Palanciste desire and plan for the victory

of Hitler, even though *there are many Felanzists too who tace a vory black view

of "Fin", Ha says the majority of-people sympatt¢se with England. They have - :
complete faith in in the Wictory of the Democracies. There are sup orters of the |

USSR, but the inmense sajority, according to our informant, do not like Sconcunten®
and prefer Democracy. MH iz obviously rather muddled by the Falangist pro: agunda
against the U.S.3.R. Be says that the entrame of the U.3.S.R. into the wer geve
Fise to hapiness all over the world, althugh there had-been a creat deal of
confusion before, through the “Treaty of Aid between Russia and Germany.” But this
confusion disappeared with German ag:resaion against: the U.S,5.R. He says that
‘the German defeats on the Russian front raised corals. end. renewed’ everyones
eonfidence in victory. Hitler's adnission in his speech of how such. they hed: .
suffered in Bussia in winter, ani. that they were cn the.edge of catastronhe, . =
produced great Joy anon; the people. ie says that the entry of the-U,8; into
tha Tar caneed g very coba Depression; sad increstet peilats confidence in.
wletory although Peark Harbour cenessd some dencralisat!cn.. He says’ that. no one
Franco does not wish it. +



8/4612

himself, and desires neutrality -ut gince thcse who command are Serrano Sinar
and the Palangiats, Francs tac > choice to do what Hitler orders him, and
there {s serious danger of war for Spain. He says trat the Anglo-Soviet and the
Soviet-—Acerican pact are “own through the Palancist sress which has. spoken of
them. They nade a very good ispression on the pecple. Asked if he knew that
the said’ pact stiswated tat after the victory nations would have freedon to
decide their destinies witiout foreign interference. La says yes, thé press

published it. stot tne Second Front 0 says tat everyone trinke of it, and
is hoping for it to o en if p.ssitie tiro:zh Spain. That the day they disembark,
Asked what the pecnle would do in case of a lan.
hon waz that if that happened the Spanish
@ inzasicn wig not on their coasts. The agreement
own. He says the nesdle wno are wost fervent

supsorters of tie Nazis are 3 » Privaro de Rivera, and a certain
Count name he does :.0t He often apys t: -nows nothin: of politics,
because he only read tre ajort ne rapers and did ot want tw know any-

thing about the Falaage. He says tat there are many preparations for war; they
are zaxing fortifications cr ccasta cf Galicia and rlacirg a considerable
anint of artillery there. He says that the p-litical force of the Falange and
the syndicates is "artificial® er re hates then. The j:e0,1e belong to the
s,mdicate cecause they can't i tet they do sot pay air dues or t ake
thea serioualy. Discontent has even reached tie ranks of ‘te Palange. Many
clerks, students, and peo;le w > joined ‘t thinking they Swere going to sieal the
discontented, ani do not pay their dues, ani when they are
ened with oeing expelled “hey say trat is what they are waiting for, for
There are sany officers in the amy ¥o
are rot in agreement with tie Palance or the idea tnat Spain is to ro to war.
The cost violent of ositio:: comes from qeipo de Llano and Yarue. No one knows
where Queipo is coing and Ya,ue ‘s thcught to be in exile in the Prov. of Pontevedra,
Both were cashiered, yueipo for protesting against fcod leaving for Germany and
Yague ause in a speech at Zarazoza, he said ~ *we do desire a creat and
free Spain, but without any Flue Snirts, Red Shirts, or prisoners.”
412 the sergeants say that they are very discontented, hezause th

5 pts. wich keeps then very snort and o: tue soldiers +e says-"in a word they are
hungry, many years in barracks, ani then the danger that they xight be sent to
war", He says that they arz well-uniformed, just as well as Defore t:
‘They have dismissed the 1941 Draft. He thinks that there was very 1i!
for the Divislon Agcl and ti ople lauched at those who volunteered.
were forced to go, cthers went cecause they were hungry, and there were/v?linteers.
He says that survivors cane back 1: a state of canic, there was a lack of food
and equipment, several of then mutilated themselves in orser to escape fron
this inferno. All say that the Rusetans are very wellearmed and fight with
great courage.

HELP 7) THB NAZIS, — He says that his opinion is that a great deal of food is
taken to Germany, although he can give no details, bat if there is no food and olive
ofl in Spain where is it? He says that in Torrelavega the "Fabrica Continental®
is working at high pressure, maxing tyre ccvers, while in Spain transp-rt is held
up for want of them,

THE CHURCH, —— He says that it is not true that in the Church there are anti=
German and anti-Falanzist croups. The supporters of the Re-ime are the Falange,
the Germans end-tie Clergy, in that order, The Church wishes for the triumph
of G,rmany, in spite of anti-Catholic policy becuase they believe that in - ~~ —---—__
that case they will be able to preserve their pcaition of influence, He says
that English and Russian news canbe heard althugh itis very difficult and is
forbidden although there is no watch or inspection. He says tlat everybody is
against the Falenge and subsissione to Germany, includin; the nonarchists and the
ich on whom tos Falangists ‘cpose large fines for racketeering, Many of the
monarchists, bourgeois etc. are on the side of England. Democracy is considered as
@ possible substitute for the Rggime. A democratic Republie like there was .
before the war. 4A Regime of peace and work. Speaking: off the solution of’ the :
present situation, he says that they want a regime.of peace and not a revolution,
‘Th@t he contradicts himself by saying t dit will not be achieved, by peaceful
means. He says that this would be the best but that the bac ithe. haciladeesls —
hectare euae ee avensed.



“them the letters they carried. In Baltizore they were interrogated one by :ne

“SOLIDARITY. — He says there is no organisativn for solidarity, that. this only
. Shey are, allowed to visit. the prisoners sore than once

Of the Civil Quard was slot for having gone for a walk along

“3- s/isie

es tetween the
nods unknewn, te has

The peoyle are very united and there are xt the old differ
parties of the Frente Popular. The policy of National Ur
heard 1. cne 5; eax of it.

DETAILS F THS PScPLE{S ScRUUGER — He says that be thinis that secret
Organisations funct!-n, especially in Bilbao and he says particularly "It ts

a city of brave zens, He says that notices rainted on the walls are aften seen
there. He caly remembers one “Less Franco, nore w.ite creai®, Asked if

t tices were aizned Ly any party se says 7, becaus? .+ weld ‘ive away
the peuple wto hai done it. Me says that na mows, because ic was told, ¢2

in Bilbao there were illecal pamphlets ani even a newspaper {= circ: >

but he does not know their content. ie tons that there :
clandestine press, vt ‘as he was iivver an idealisi ths peaple who lid t:.e
things would not trust h.a, and as he is o.t of everything he 2oes nt Fnow
any details", He says he tuinks vial wns peorle wrking in * are
nationalists and cos-unists, especially the latter. That a he ace
two Italian submarines, dadly damaei cy Bujiish planes, cane into Santander.
Two ‘hundred persons wore arrested for discuseing this, amt « eorle
thouht that the secona front ha: already Legun. He ¢ives rc rors details.
Re says that Serrano Suner was tne object of an altack ‘n Yairi when be met
Arrese, ami when tne latter tried io protect Suner he was sariously wounded
and had to undergo a critical o erat.on. asked if ha thoucht thore was
satotage etc., he says uc = tie disorganisatic: of tne train services is dus
to all the eaployees veing new aii mut knowing their business,

QUERILLE"08 ~- He says ti.at "Bl Carinoso® was wore\a> in Santander and

®The Railwaynen® too; that "El Carizoso" caze fram Liertmes ani had his

headquarters in Santander. That ie was recentiy k{Mea throuh quarrels and
Smbroglios caused vy iis eirlfrieni wis was fron the J.C. ani rad another

lover, and it was Le wo was arrested at the same as El Carinoso. I+ was

he who inforzed against them all. Many peo; le love the werilleros, al thozch

there ara sany pev.le x.2 holp tiew thr.uch fear, as for exacple a relaticn of

his from wion they to.x .is only ;izg, svt in ceneral the Guerilleros Lehave excellent
ly. "El Carinoso® 1:as cnce in Barcelona, where le went in a cab to get
teeth fixed. El Carinoso was sot a politiclan tut tcok te tue contains in

order to avange the death of ia cousin who was assassinated by the Falance.

That they often, like tie guerilleros of Asturias, disguised themselves as Civil
Guard, wert dorn to the villages, and arrested the Falanists. But where ‘here

are Wak most Vuarilleros,and the c::t active,is in Asturias, Six months aro,

about three humired juerilleros were ready to embark on the coast in order to

leave Spain. But shore was a juarrel and a terrific fight vetween these -uer-
flleros ant the forces .f authority, with many dead, and after that they

retreated to the acuntains, He says ti.at the ;oliticians kxkaxrnm sto are

most po ular are Prieto and Asana. Some speeches of Prieto's Lave bsen clr—-

culated through Bilbao, Lut he dbes not know what they say. ‘here is also in
circulation an article, reproduced from an English paper, reprinted by an

exployee in the Real Com, Asturiana, de Ing. Reniblicana, Ths article refers te the
powers ani jwources uf the Allies and their chances of victory. He says

he does not know of any activity of tie comunists, that this is obviously the
activity of other people who are nct corxuniats; t! for examle the man who
reprinted the article and those who read it were all on the Republican left, ant
if there is any communist activity it is so camoufla-ed that no one knows who is
the autiwrs—He-says that “during the crossing they were detained by the Bnelish
in Sermda and in Balvimore by the Americans. That the Enciish made a short
exazination, they did not interrogate then in front of everybody and left

amd were asked about fortifications, food, if they sant it to Ggrmany, etc.

When our informant said he had been in Frinco's arny up to the war: they asked him:
why he did cot desert to the Republican arny, - i

‘exiets between croups of friemis who have a relati-n or acquaintance ‘in prisn.

week. He saya that
the Ki11fB37hoes on, and that in Vog,.a few days b-fore he 1éft, a lieuteiant



REPORT Wo.3Si

MARIA RODRIGUTZ, wdout 29 years cld. Comes froa a coafortably-off peasant
family in the Province «f Orense. Sheis very sluggish and at every question
rezeats that she dous not know and that women do not understand many thin 6s
She had only @ little nore than an hour to spare as she was busy in the evening
and had to leave for the interior in the norning.

HAR — She says t!.at she was surprised when she arrived in Havana as she thinks
there is core enthusiass in S; ain than here ani acre confidence in an American
victory. The peasants “like everyone else" would like the “Anerican® to win,
even ti.ose cn the Right are sure the dermans will lose, She cannot explain the
nature of Franco's assistance to Hitler, she says only tuat "as it was the
Oermans wro won, Spain owes them crore tnan it has*. Sha cannot ve axplicit,
either,abozt the dangers of war, but shé says that Francote suldiors, the young
n zeneral,and as a cuncrete instance a thar of hers wi. servei five youn
anco's sry, aayQ"tnat they mil go up into the avuntain and choot befcre
eolng again t+ the war, Avout tne Division Azul sha knows on.+ that when it
was first formed a volunteer left from her district. He was a~ outlaw who

had committed crimes and she says t:.at he went throuch fear of the consequences.
The people do not like the alue Division. They were not aske: anything for the
*voluntders%e

FUTURE PROSPECTS — She insists that there is great confidence that it will soon
change. So much go that e Republican who was hidden for years and afterwards
discovered told her to tell her husband "Do rot leave beacuse things will soon change*
The village Las a hundred inhabitants, and she says that they all hope it will
change} but fron what we em gather this confidence is based entirely on an
Allied victory. She says that if tne Bnglish upened a second front in Spain the
people would revolt, but she says she Las heard no c;inions on this point. ‘the
peole speak without fear, She relates that the Falangists tried to take a
pistol from har father and that he bid it. They threatened hia, they took him in
a car telling xkmmctaxdaxmhxk him that they were poing to knock his head off,

but the old manremained firm, telling them to do what they Jiked. They did not
do anything to him nor dia they gst the pistci. As an example cf solidarity
against the Falange the old man said he bad sold the pistgl to a man who was
going to America. They told him to prove it, the cld’trought as witnesses two
Peasants who lived more than a league away, withcut having agreed on a story
first, but being quite convinced ti.at the peasants when they saw the Palangists,
if only for the sase of contradicting them, wuld say that what he said was true,
A little later they sont rim a notice for a Falanzist meeting and he refused to
€0. She does nd@ know if tne other peasants did,

ARMY — She knows t.at a stort time ago they disiissed te 56 (1956) Dpaft.
Her husband waz on service in Orense and deserted ani went to Cuba. Immediately
the Captain of tLe Company and a lieutenant went to him house to make inquiri
His.brother told them "In his circumstances I do aot ‘mow what I would have
done®, and the captain and the lieutenant went away saying - “He is right*.

NTS. — 43 we have already said, she belongs to a fauily which is om-
‘ortably off, they have several labourers in their employ. She says that the day
la bourers, and the farmer are equally galnet the Covermnent and the Germans,
To illustrate tne situation she says that the daily wage is 20 pts. without
food, and-§-with-food.—The; prefer-the 5 and food, because otherwise they
have nothing to eat. The peasants are very discontented, and show it openly
the Falancist officials when they come to inspect the Larvest and when they
Bix the prices, saying = "They havs no right to do it, it is an abuse®, but it
appears that it ges no further then this. They have not requisitioned anything
but thayforce them to sell to the official buyers who iseue pernita © authorised
buyers. These individuals take tha produce to large shops and amass resal
fortes. A quintal of potatoes, they have to sell at SO pts. and they are sold.
aftervarde by the dealers at the standard rate of four or ‘ive’ptas the kilo, that

the ~

“" dw to say at a 800% profit, to private people who require then. dnd if

peasants take their produce to the market they have to sell.it at the standard rate to |
the dealers. So peastnt takes any rye to’the narket, they. prefer to rum the :
Fisk of selling it to private peo le. This is the only way in which they can.



8/4612

get other products, They have isposed a new tax; they have to pay 15 centiaos
for aach vinestock, They have civen up tho “onesdieh meal® and they are not
forced to contribute to Audio Social. She sa:s tiat the Jovernment does not
know what 48 -olng on in the country, They districute the s:lphate, nct
according to the numer of vineyards, uot even according: to the number of
inhabitants, ec that her district whichis wine country, gets less oul-hate
than the next ore and produces vary little wine, alth wh it has more
inkatitants, A kilo of sulphate is worth 59 ptas. - before it was worth SO
centines. She says that they ware taking a fow taings-to Antrica anithey made
them pay in Fielato, in Grenae, and ‘in Vigo, and if they ! ad passed through
nore provinces they would have rad to pay sgain,

EPORT No. 352

Information volunteer-d by three Galician sasants, .t nesbare cf politica
parties, They remained throughcut the war in Franquist territory, aith-uch only
one of them foucht in the arsy. Very backward politically, antinvraniulat,
ard more anti~Falangist, ith the mxception 01 one who was in Asturias as a
soldier, the othera nev_r left their village which is a hamlet in Galicia,

SPANISH ATTITUDE 10_THE WAR AGATNST EXTLE:, — The majority of the Spanish peorle
with the exception of the very rich and the Falanzists are azainst Franco and the
Falange, They explain tiat Falangists seo what is coming to them threugh the crimes
they have conti tted, and they ary tho people io really veh for a Oeraan
vietory, with the object of aaring their skins, and the mcney they have stolen
from the people. In Spain, in general, nv one wante the war, gince t!
exhausted, according to our informants, except for the Palangists. I, is vpaid

. that Franco ie a partisan of neutrality, and daily visite tie British Actassador
at his private residence and Iss Interviews with him. In spite of this they
say there is a danzer of Spain being ;ushed int: the war acainat her will, because
in Spain the Germans are she masters. All the world believes that the Allies
will be the victors axcapt tho Palance. Seford the attack on Rusd a cany people
were demoralised by the Jerman a sand becan to Sthinkthem invinciole®.
When Rusaia ent.red the war, enthusiasm and confidence in Hitler's defeat
inereased enormously, but that was especially when the Russian victories began,

They say: ~ I do not know what would have happetied to us but for Russi a;

the Hasis would be masters vf the world. Thay aleo say that the Nasi army
will not stand another winter of war, that they have suffered such losses that
the next Ruesen winter offensive will defeat them although there ie no talk of
a Second Front, They are sure that the Democracies will win the war, They
admire the resistance of the U.S.S.R. They say that G,rmany kas already lost the
War as a congequence of the losses su‘fered in “ussia. The entrance of the U.S.
into the war contributed to tacrease the already existing confidence tn victory.
They do not know of the Anglo-Soviet and Soviet-american agrepments, nor. the
agreenent about the second front. One of our informants asked us what," Hitler
1942e"meant and when we told him he said that they also said it in Spain, because
in order to achieve it it was necessary to open a second front. They think that
if there was a landing in France the people wuld rise, They also say that
there are rumours that they land in Galicia and in this care thewhole of Galicia
would revolt to help the Allies. The same thing would happen in any part of Spains

‘The*DIVISION AZUL” is hated by the majarity of the people. They say that the
majority have been”forced to volunteer, ard explain how the recruiting is dont.
anyone who.does_not-want_to-go_and fight Coocuniem, take a stpp forwad. Some... -
enlisted becnuss of the desperate situation they were in. Soe enlisted, too, dec
because thay: were stalwart Falangists. .When the recrutts left the prowince

& great mmy people went to see them off, calling them “sons of bitches® and
Angulting tneir mothers. When ons contingent of "Volunteers® came back from the
Russian front at Irun they had to leave the train because. the reople ware stoning.
rm ‘ them. Mary people inmbccme came back maimed ani with frostbite. They tell

i ra terrible istories about the Oermana and the horrors of the war. They say the ~

7 Russians are very brave and. fight with great ccurage. That they have large Gasates

» | Qf amiun‘ition, and that things. on the Bus:ian front are not tike the papers eaid
ieee wWay'e, They said that the food on the Russian front was very scarce md beds
: : ‘Te tas:/sent to them fron Spain ani they suffered many hardships. They'all
raavearttea Wished, to return to Spain Q8_ soon as possible; they repented of having calisted,

_ Avro hour tor Hitler in 1548 4



: : 6 * giecia

HELP GIVEN BY THE PRAMQUIST PEVIVR AvD THB FALANGS 7: “ITLER. — Bow and then
thoy send reinforcessnts to the Division Apyl,in grcu;s of a thousand or
ons thousand five hundred, They say enatyn thder to r-place the casualties and tho ©
those who revurn crippled. Even the Palangists themselves say - *he Russian
front is a very serious matter®.. Those whe are recr:ited to replace losses
in Russia are recr..ted by force, by the process already centivned, All airmen
have to serve come scnths on the Rastern frout as "tracing". They say that
lately they were training avout 150 filots tos end them to Russia. ie war
factories are workingat iigh pressure. The Sernans are directing tie erection”
of an aerodrome in the province of Luzo, In Gal cla very few Jerasns are to
be seen, Military instruction is obiijatory for boys ard j.uths in the
"Frente de la dliventud®. They &se train ycuths from 1S onwards to serve in
aviation. a friead of the informants told them that there passsi daly through
a city in the North fifty caré loated wit war-naterial in ths directicn of the
French trontier. German submarines refuel at fedendeia and Vizo. H, says that
English geroplanes often maka recomaissance flights over the neroours of Jalicta,
They cescribe Serrano Suner as the rost subservient to the Hadis a:i in ceneral
wlio neve crimes behind them or wi.o have vecome rich through
‘roubing the peo: ie,

Those wr.0 0 to work in Gormany aie those workers Wro have ndwork, or even
if whey Lave any live in the createst poverty, They believe that by roing to
Germany tey-will be able to solve their economic eituarton and that of their
families, The groups asnt are not very large, according to our i:formants, at least
in Galicia. Thia is understandable because the Germans preiur specialists.’
According to our informants, three workmen came back from Jermany who say that
in Gerasny the situation 1s terrible. They hardly eat, there is great poverty,
They have the impression that Germany will not resist long in consequence of the
situation thera is in the country. They also say that a -roup of Spanish workmen
were throw out of the country because "they c aused troule%

-FRIC: DETA THE RULING CLASSBS — He does not knew of any dissenrirn in the
army except the case of Yague and queipo, and cives da:a which is already nom.
The soldiers in veneral are against the entry of Spain in‘c the war....They live in
very bad conditions. badly fed, vadly clothed ard iil-.reated 27 the officers,
especially by the recently reervited Falenjists. Thay all wish to te demo’. ‘sed
ag soon as possible. They have demobliisec the '29 iratt. By ttwir conversation
we ooserve that the soldiers from the national" and the "Red® zones receive
different treatment. In Galicia there are rany scldiers fron Cataluna w-o have
@lreaiy spent several years in tne aray. They Go cot sake it difficult for
youths of xilitary age to leave Sains they cited thelr om cases. One of them
is 18, the other 24 years old.

‘THE PSOPLE'S PEST STANCE TO TPE WAR AND THE FRANSU"ST 3E3Te# — They say that
there is no resistance there at all, because no one can act, and passivity is

the opinion and state of = nd of the peorle, When we insist they say there

have been various tran smashes and some derailments which they think were duo

to sabotsge as woll as to the defective material. Everyoody knows the British

end Soviet war communiques and they are discussed in private conversation. Some
people teke them down in shorthand md later circulate them, Ha says that in Vigo
there is a secret transxitting station, but it was discovered oy the police and all
tiose connected with it shot, They were sald to belong to the republican Left
(*Isqelerda Repudlican®) and smonz taose stot there was one doctor ani other
Antellectvals. He does not xnow any sore details, Women cozplain loudy in queues
of the shortage of foodstuffs, Me krows because the ruzour went rund ther
Prieto-sade eech in the White House tefcre Rcosevelt, and that Roosevelt
embraced him saying that the Anericas were betind the Spaniards. This speech too
is circ:lating in clandestine copies, cut he never cccld see one. He says tcat
there is no organised plitical activity because this is imossible. He tells
several Jokes which are going the rounds, and quot-s tris ones -. "Recently :
they zade a film called "We Thieves are Hgnest Men", Beneath the announcement of |
this film in Vigo, someone wrote "The Caudiilo's Own Gards*.” Ee saye the press -

© give most space to the English War con-uniques ani tre U.S. war news bulletins.

TIS T'2 aT EOF TUR Pi TOR NATI_NAL USTo. —- Talking -of Upity: .
ay Bay ti There, there are n- pi 035 @ are only anti~franquists,. -
and all the differences between sections of the Pepular Front have disappeared.



é
Lister 1s know and has a following in Galicia. The politicians Seated
prestige are Prieto and Asana and Negrin, although Negrin ts the

by the Falangiste% :
FUTURE PROSPECTS. — He thinks of the Republic as _ eee te ae eotie will
Fasciam, but without a revolution, and he immediately Peers clin save
come because when the Germans are at their weakont th oe peopl fa

and avenge the erimes of the Falangists. The people's bl pach He

see those who assassinated their relations dressed uP eat placed nt
Palange consista only of professional asssoutne oxi te Sound ana. bard

the shirt can be recognised by their Lact ‘alang.

first now do not eaite inioe agtileg about it, and do not want anyone ape weer
the shirt, There io friction between Requates and Falangiste. The peop e

hate the Requetes less than tho Falangiste. They say that the schools each
only militariem and religion. There are many Little boya who can hardly ar
read, but no can speak of ailitary o;erations with gaps, artillery and aviation.
A teacher who vas dismissdéd and cate back to his post, told our informants that |
the Ministry conatantly senté thea bo.ks of military tactics, so that thay col
teach them to the children. Yhe sumer camps for children consist of sending

boys to camp and teashing them drill.

ORNERAL SUTUATION OP TVS PEOPLE, — They apoke of the terrible poverty endured by tt
‘the people, and the high price of food; wages have hardly: been raiaed in comparie
son wita those paid under the Republic, The Committees of Supply get bold of
agricultural products and only leave a small quantity per person for the whale
yearts evpply. Alreedy in their village the Palango had listed the crop although

. ‘they had not yet requisitioned it, which they had already done in other parte

< of Galicia, Palangists speculate in. foodstuffs, sclling thea at high pric

¢ and so gat rich, He says that in Vigo a large quantity of rice wont bad and hed
to be thrown into the sea because they would mot sell it to the people at lower
prices. The rationing ts quite inadequate. They were a whole year without seeing
Olive ‘oil. Maturally on the Black Market it could be tought at SO pts and acre.
Ina year they only had bread twice. A very small meal in a restaurant costs
16 pts. Two courses and dessert 25 pts. Ons of them was charged 75 pts, for
eating and alaeping in a pension in Vigo one day. A pair of shoes costa
25 pts., w poor suit 500, a dosen eggs 18 or more pte. The people hate the
Conaittess of Supply used by the Falangiats to make themselves rich, They

ae say that there is the greatest innorality in all official organisations and
*  everyons steal:

“In the priaons there are atill many people. They treat the prisoners very
bedly. In the prison of Oviedo, which has a capacity for 600 there are more than
5,500 prisoners. There are batallions of forced labour (workers they call them),
they grant some people conditional liberty but they send thea to districts where
they know no one and where they die of hunger,

: Generally these three young mon have great confidence in the victory over
Hitler, and sey Germany may break up ths very yeare .

Taformation volunteered by an emCons-lar official of the Cuban Governnmat
in Spain, who arrived on the "Marques de Comillas® on the 25 th of July 1942,
The subject is a person of quite good economia position, Be is the soné of
Spaniards ani owns some properties in Asturias. He went as Consul to
after_Frmco's_troops_had taken pessession‘of‘it. A man of. moderate views,
politically of the persuasion that was regnant there at the soment, he honest2y-- ———-——
Delicved, doubtless as a result of Palangist propaganda in America, that
“Framuist Spain was a paraiice". Later he lad the opportunity of experiencing
what Franquism represented, and still represents for Spain, and owing to his :
‘honourable behaviour as Consul hs was often insulted and was even threatened with -
expulsion. Be was closely connected with of icials of the Pasciat. Regine and ee cies
with Falangiets in high positions, Mis term. of office, to use his om «
expression, was more su@fessful through his friends than owing to his position,



(on the Galictan coast. This is public property, but every now and then the ——

2 8 8/6612

ATL G8 AE TR RUN BUS — 8O£ of the Spanieh people are against
Pranquiet regia, eaye that to assess accurately the: solution desired
by thie ninety perceat te wery difficult, Some wish, specifically, for the
restorat! o of the Republic, but he ealntans that what everyone is longing for
pt Saeed An Ue Fecita, areething to relieve the really chaotic situation
Spanien poeple fied tkenmelvec, (Ee did not know life under the Republic,
end therefere when be talaed with poaple thay always underlined the enormous’ ~~
Gifforence were wes Retusen tat life and life under the present regimo).
‘The Palanciat waity oy coast ef ea myth. Division in the Franquist Camp
grows dally, The Falancieta write leppeana tn the atreeta and-s0 do the E
Rgdueres, bat thelr elesene are contradictory, The Falangists accuse the rest —
of being eure end walters te Une deetrine of tho Palaige. For exazple, ho talked
te a Palargiat lieutenant = Une naa cee free Cuba to fight at Franco's aide =
in the cafe “El date Becre® in Metrid, a feu days before eabarking, He soamd
0 bo anheaul cf the preseat situation in Spain, Uo oxoused himself by
Tepeatiug tee Polomsiat teg that the Palaage hed Yeon betrayed. (This must refer
to the’ Masrehicta, Bequetes, aad ether reattiraarice), Ths Palangista are
aware of the prozeat etuatier ia Gata, Barhapo that te the reason why-- they are
eeeking a moletion wNich will preserve their elase privileges, In his ow
phrasa ~ the Prenyalet regime bance frea a very thin thread, whieh aust snap very
goon, (Perhare thio ie wt aly the elew of cur informant, but alse of sone
military and civil leadere with wea. be eas cleaely connested)s For thie reason,
be aays, they have tricd to give tte lepresaica of a change, taking advantage
ef the Cacare Gerporativa’, and, if it ie tree, with the restoration of a
Palengistbaeredy,

re

Qt TRE HORSEETY, —- There is, he says, no public aciivity with thie goel. There
doga mot exiat what wo aight-eall payohological receptivity for this measures
bot unfoubdtedly muzotiations in thie direction are being earried on by high
officials of the Frammist Regime, He was in Endrid on the 22 - 23 dyno 1&2,
at the tim of the wiait of Don Juan, His visit was not given eny pudlicity,
but there usre widespread police precautions, The streets nearest to the palace
were closed to the public and a strict watch was kept. There were also arrests
ef sospicidus parsons, those who hed been in prison ets, But the press gave m
eign, The presence of Uon Jue was public property, The people seemad com
pletoly indifferent, The moharchiste displayed no activity either, Perhaps,
be edded, thay took pruceutionary measures with some poople characterised by
their adhesion to the Kinarchy. Els izpression is that if the monarchy vere
restored in Speia it would be in alliance wth the Falangists, but the peo-le
would still have the impression that the gituation had changed. He maintained
that there would be the semblance of a coup dletat, epparently dirccted egainst
the Palange, but Frencowuld remain head of the army. If.s0, hinge wuld, fundo=
mentally, reasin tom as they are; that iz, the Spantah State would still de
gubordimated to Hitler, ani without changing the policy of “partiality®
they now maintain, to one 6f "neatrality® in the ware They would take t! stop,
in bis opinion, only in the last resort, if faced with a second front in
Barope, and onthe sppreach of Mitler's defeat, which would, naturally have
en imediate repercussion on the ccuntrtes subject to the Hagia in Europe, -

A Sere ora rest ST_RG HITLER, —- In Spain
fF ts do not speak their position “Heutrality® in the war but of
Spertiality®. This is thatr attempt to justify the help they give to the
4xis.__ There are German submarine refuelling stations in Vigo, Redondela, and

press publishes a complete denial that Axis submarines refuel'in Spain. ‘ Thess
qenials are very frequant but they do not give much proof.’ Those who can see
tenker~launches carrying on this work langh at these ridiculous denials, Also
on more than one occasion German submarines have becn repaired in Spanish

- “In Oalicia it is quite iposaible to get a pot of jam.. All the
production, which is. encrmcus; goss to the dermats.’ There are places.on the
frontier, through whith trains pase with produce for Hitler. There are forti-
fleations and artillery on the coasts of Galicia, where the Germans are in
comand. There sre also oss serodroass; sca already finished and. some under
construction by German technicians. . They fear an Allied invasion in Galicia.
Mitler ie assisted not only with food ani primary. materials, but also with men.



a

oF = 9/4822

” ‘Phere is continuous propaganda for the sending of volunteers as workera %0

Germany. Unwiliing contingents of soldiers have left for tne Blue Division,

THE DIVISION AZ'L was a Palangist manoeuvre to give political icportance to some
Palangist leaders. The manoeuvre turned out very badly. Tits Division is the
most unpopular innovation of the Falenge. Our informant talked with 11 sur—
vivors of the division, who had returned from the Russian front cn account of
their wounds. One of thom was 18 whén he left as a volunteer, without the
consent of his family. He asked if he would return to the front again and he
answered categorically *Wy eyes have been opened. I will rever return®,
They all sposk of the bad food they are given - mainly vitamin pilis and pots
of jam. They speak of the courage and fighting spirit cf the Russian aray, but
above all of the contexpt with which the Ogrmans treated thea. They regarded
them as inferior beings and they also said that when they -aid compliments to
the Gergan women, a Spanish custom, they answered tiem diedainfully as if they
despised them, There were casos of solf=cutilation in the ras of tie Blue
Division, At any rate their panic was obvious, and they refused to return.
Everybody speaks i111 of the Division aml,
«Ite comsander Minos Grénde, ie the most despised of acldiers, Cowntlesa
jokes about this division ciroulate in Spain. Our informant know veral, but
cites the following as anccample which case frou the Club Beneventemarniches
etc. "Kl Gato Hegro® in Madrid. nos Grande sent a telegram to tho political
address of the Blue Division at the front - this was the address: }.2.7. CR33,
M.S, The telegram errived and no ons co-ld decipher it, tut finally a oldie
said - "This is quite clear®, and reai the following words — "He were all
decaived. Serrano Suner is the only one responsible, Many thanks", (*Fulzoa
engensios todos. Unico repponsable $,Sener. Mychas cracias®),

ON THE DANGER OF WAR FOR SPATH AT HITLER'S SIDE, — His izpressicn 1s that Spain wi)
will continue to assist Ritler as she is doing now but that she will rot enter
tho wer. ome of the Generals are in disagreemnt with the present policy -
among them Varela, Armdas, Yagus, Quelpo etc. dxcng the soldiers the feeling
against the Pascist Regine is very marked. They complain of bad food,
treatnent, clothes..., too much time spent on marches etc. Queipo, on his
retarnf rom Ipaly was rude to Serrano Suner and struck him for which he was seat
back to Italy. Qsneral Aranda spent a aonth at Cijon and talked to our informant,
Thoy had on interview. Our informant has a real adztration for Aranda, who, he
says, is a gentleman. He saya that Aranda ap-eared tobe Ieftis: aneng his |
remarks he renembera the following wards. "Wo Spaniards are robbers. ¥e ars, and
we have been for come timo. If you walk through the Castellana of Metrid you
will’ eee the suzptuous palaces owned by Bexler(7) ant Pram de Rivera, etc, built wi
with the blood of the Cuban people ‘and the poor Spaniards who want to defend
the Spanish colomiea. The colonitzs ware lost but the military leaders, whose duty
it was todofond them, enriched themselves. iow it is the sane thing over again.
pein pie tharos eae fo bring progress to Spain but we have spilt
orrents uselesely. result was not worth the e:

blood and 60 muchrepression®, Ha cae Seen

D his conversation, although he said nothing against the Ogrmans, he showed
contexpt for the Falengists who are enriching themelveas he shewed particular
foar of the treatment meted out to the soldiers in barracks, Ele impression
ie that it was a result of the seriousness of the situation through which the
Framuist regine wus passing and fear of what the outcome might be. Ee paid

nothing about the state of the war, and whether he was
th the conversation he.had with the General Lt Be thue there ees aes

Pttedihcan sneral 4s possible that th re
~ aspect, which through discretion he 7 that there was another

did not repeat,

to :
ts. salary or perhaps less, he oi "I
besides. they Pi tnirgodin Bore. Ip the workers and eee ceeret atts

‘generad had a greater purchasing power, Lite wide ee eee oe the pecple in

ld be impossible in Spain as they:



oa dane easements SmaenmEmEEnmememmmmens oree

door and found himself in the street,

. Therefore the

would algo tuy on the Black Mrket and no one would ea’ i
privileged claseee can eat, and they can only do it if they have : pkey
They. accuse the Falangist leaders’ and the Government of racketeor age ido ia
Black Merkete:. Dusenze fortunes have been sade in a night. "They co to that
poor and wake up aillicnaires? This is the only explanation of the fact

one ig allowed two packots of tobacco at 0.90 per person per week, end in =
the Compania arrenditaria de Tobacos, which is a state aonopoly, ons person
can buy froa 100 to 10,000 packets of the 0.90 at 7,50 a packet. Ba also _
relates the following instance, Petrol is scarce in Spain. -A litre costs

15. pte. Cera frequently etop in the streets for lack of it. He cites a case
which happened in the spreet of Gijon. A distingmshed military personage had
no petrol He saw a tanx-convoy of Campsa pass and asked. the chauffeur for 6
feu litres, and then he refused, he ordered them to give tt to him, as
superior officer. The chauffeur rofuged-sgein, and in a panic explained that he
could not do it because he was not carrying petrol but olive oll, withcut

being able to explain which military leader or leaders it was destined for
although ho knew it was to be eold/contreband. - :

SUTUATION OP TYR PRISONERS, — Ha cannot calculate the number of prisoners there
are actually at the moment although be asserts that it is at any.rate enormous.
zy reason of his position he has vis ted prisona and fortresses, and is terrified
at the terrible treatment in the “Conisarias® Civil Guard barracks ete. On
more than cne occasion he says he haa saved core than one Republican fromo rtain
death, The prison that he knows is the Cote at Gijon. It is at the moment
completaly full. The treatment is inhuman, They do not give the prisoners

8 cell number but allocate them only a square meter for slesping, Btanding gto.
That 1s to say that when a priconer arrives he ia given a metre of ground. Nor
do they give them a mesa. Lately they agroed to give them a peseta ddly for
maintenance. He does not understand why there are not mre deaths, as with
one peseta a day in the prison canteen ons can only buy bread. They gook tho

for each child, to the married on They keep them working ten and twelve hours
égily in.the mine, The nuaber of shootings has dimimehed. If ia imputed to ths
fact that almost oll must have been tried%

IB CLERCY ——. He says that the clergy have never intervened in pohitics fron the
pulpit as much as they do now, sometimes inveighing against the Franquist
Government, and at other times, naturally, defending the policy of the Falange.
Rumbers of the priests and monks continually ex-ound their view on the pelitisal
regine and the points on which they differ from it. As a characteristic example
he relates that about two months ago in Gijon there was a house used provisionally
as the Church of Gan Jose, which waa destroyed during the war. 4A priest,

“\pfofessor at Salananca, gave five lectures. In these lectures he spoke alacst
exclusively on political questions, and attacked the Franquist Government .
for their method of supply and distributing tie foodstuffs mong the peplo,
saying that what was wanted was more rationing and less Frenquist reguiotions.
He also advocated the necessity of a pardon for all comismned people and other
things that our informant does not remamber. 500 people went to the first lecture,
but dex the second one, when they heard what the subject was, was attended by -
Uterally all Gijon, : .

Raconsreer I -~ Reconstruction is only done as a catter of private enterprise

y Pi tors and churches. In Madrid, tks tontana barracks, the prison, the”
workers districts, damaged by the bombardments, remain as they are. Nothing
has been rebuilt. The arguellos district has bean partly rebuilt. Every owner =.
has taken-in-handhis-own-propertys The Franquist: reccnatiuetion policy 1s a myths
The peoyle mock at it and make- jokes, anong them the following - In Gijon they mm =
erected a building mirked “Reconstruction Office*sin the hallway there wero
two doors, ons warked “for partial destruction® and the other “fer total. destruction! .
So a well-known Asturian who was visiting the office shout his house which had

_-been partially destroyed went into that department. Once inside, there were two
more doers - “for thore who have. some resources, ami for those who have not®.
Bo went through the first door, there was another room with two doors = "fer
those wip are Falangists, and for those who are not®, He went through the escond



Peet 4 4

PACTS ABOU? PRSTSTARCR, — In Spain acto of sabotage’ are carried out on the ratle ‘ |
ways, factories, etc., although he cannot decide whether these are organised —~ i 4

‘actions decreed py illegal organisations of Spanish Republicans or ar spon= :

taneous acts of workers who are onenies of the Falangist regize. Be does not . : 4
know any conerete instance cf the activity of the workers erganisations, C.P.3e : ;
ete., but when he was in Kadrid on the 2nd and 23rd of last June, there was

a film on called "Ws Thieves are Honest Men%, There were thousands of lampocns

dong on that, some very clever and suggestive which wore scattered throughout

Madrid. According to our informant, one day the lagpoong appeared printed in

the sans type lettering as tie ;oater, with tue following — Swords of the Candtllo,

from a recent speech". Yor tiis reason there were arreate and a number of :

beatings in Madrid. 2 also saw how the people had lost their fear. In

the Gran Wie in Madrid a man cried out that he was not only red but communist,

and he wuld not endure this any more. Apparently the people told him to be

silent out he did not take any notice. The R.A.f. bombardment of Cologne,

which was known in Spain fro: the English bweadcaste, was celebrated alnost oll

over Spain by the people who stayed up such later than the usual time in the

streets, drincing in bare, ete. He says that even the police took part as

they are largely Anglophile.

GUERTLLEROS -—- Ne saya that there are many in Asturias; there is a state

of war, Thore are ibore and the'Tercio!. he guerilleros appear occasiondly
in the villages and avenge the deaths of antieYaeciata who have bean murdered
by the Falange. Thay take food and clothes. Omce his car was stopped by a
group of them in the street of Llanes. They were dressed as Falangists.

hen he showed his papero as Consul of Cuba and proved he was not the previous
conmul Pena, a known Falangist, they saluted him and said = “Long live the
pouple of Cuba®, He says that although they behaved correctly he was rather
afraid. Hp knows that a short time ago the guerilleres of Caspocaso had Tight
with the Civil Quard ani killed several people, among them gone wall known Flane
giete in the district. It appears that the Guerilleres are magnificently armod,

FUTURE PROSPECTS, —- He believes firmly that Hitler will be defeated this yoare
Me has great faith io the people of Spain and France, sto, Hasindouinated
Europe will arise, since this life cennot continues “even one winter more®,
He ie confident ti.at the U.3.3.R, will not be defeateds on tho contrary the
Soviet battlefronts will be the end of Hitlerism. He believes that England
and the U.S,, in opening a second front, will count on the help of peoples
oppressed by the Nasis, in France or in Spain, and things will move rapidly,
The Spaniah people wre waiting for the invasion of the Allies in order to take
-arms in the streets against their rulers. The Spaniards trast in the Allies
and hope that the Second Front will not be long delayed. Soviet and English
broadcaste. arelietencd toy they follow the progress of te war, They hate the
Germans and the Italians. ‘These who before supported Franco ere now his
qnemies and partisans of the defeat of Hitler. Tho Spanish people hope to
escape from this situation by the defeat of Hitler and trust ih the Reutoration
of the Republic.

Cuba. —~ 28.7542,

REPORT Bo,355

AMOEL MARTINEZ, 26 years old, is a student from Bilbo. He is not a consistent
Pascist or anti~Fascist either, as his opiniona/fither confused.

Fe rr yn a a ae enn react Bite

ause-they view tha will not enter it. all the world thinks
‘that Germany will lose the war because her enemies are very strong. He says i
that nothing is said about the secom! front. About the Blue Division he says i
‘that. the people are against those wno went to Russia, ehtefly because they think
thom mal. He talked to a frien of his who came back from Rusia, who was

‘ thoroughly glad to ba.back. Hs said that our entire war was child's play

aan compared with tis one and the way the Russians fight. He says that som
Usftists werein the Division through hunger, and some were Palangist adventcrers,
ani in spite of ita being said: that all are volunteers it in obvious that many

_ wars Loreed into: it. He: saya that in the Gibraltar demonstration, there were

asa,



“only £ sts, who do not know what war means",
bined pd ean etends to be slow and tries. tug et cut of the questions
with trifling auswoss. We think it is because he feels constrained by &
Polangist who ie with Him, Be declares that be lo against Serrano Suner, but
be eays he is quite favourable to Franco because he promulgates laws wh.ch
fevour the people ard is a partisan of neutrality besides. Whea we cf
examples, cepectally that of tho Blue Diviscn, jo whew hin what Franco's neutral ity
snounts to, he maintains that they are all voluntesrs, Hy says they are always
spoaking in favour both of Germang and the Allies, because Franco’ wishes to
stand wall with beth sides. Ee says tha: whon the state of °non=delligerence”
was establighed the people were content becanse before that they were afraid
of being involved inthe war. This fear, he esys , is :ot so strong now,
When esked what he would do if be were in Spain and ths Spanish people were,
Anvolved in the war he answered = "Iwotld go to the mountains or spend a
bulle’ on the first officer wx tried to force ce", He says that many Spaniards a
would do the same if Spain were forced into the war, because it wuld be s0
terribles *

(SUPPORT GTVEN BY THS FRANQUIS? RAOTHR TO HITLER, — He Coos ma know the proporations
of this asgistance but he says that volunteara camtinue to leave for the frente

In the sane way he thinks that ifthe Ogrmana did rot take provigions from

Bpain ali the needs of the country would be supplied. With this ‘doa he ecm

plains agsinst the Germans and against Serrano Suner above all. Falangista io
unfora are now only seen in parades.

WORKARS POR GERWWEY —— He says that a few months ago they sent a great quantity
ef workers to Germany. They were almost all Galicians, and very fow fron Bilbaoe
A little later they were returned because "they were being deceived", "potting
inte diffieultiss", When he was asked tobe sore precise he sgid that when thy
got to Germany they asked to be returned to Spain, and so they did with alnost
all of then, :

TERROR — Hs says thore are no persecutions or exeentions, when the execution

‘Lerraage sas mentioned he said that the people had no knowledge of those
erinea. About the refugees he says that the people talk of thelr teturning to
Bpain then the war is overe

FRICTICN — this point, without being questioned, he says that the Paquetes
and Falangiats cannot meet, because when the two parties were amalgamated the
Requetes were pushed into the background, and that is the reason they prefer the
monarchy, Ou thia point he says thst he has beard nothing about the restoration
nor about the differences between certain leading factions in the armye

RESTSTARCR, = At first he said that no one speaks about the war or any other
probdleas because the peonle are afraid. Bus afterwards he said that people
Femember the Republic and h.w well they lived then, Eg doa not’ report any

example ef resistance to tha war. He says that the Haticnaliste have a lot of ine
fluence, bat rot so cther parties, among them ours. Prieto has no influence d ther,
Th gonsral it is obvious that he is ignoran’ of many things or does not dare to
speak of them,

UMITY — All the anti-Fascists are united, but he gives no details.

FUTURE PROSPECTS -~ ‘When the war ends with whe victory of the Allies Franco will
fall, ani he thinkg that the Resublic will return. He thinks it will happen soon. -- -- --~--~-- ~
He because tie situation is unbearable, altbough "there is no need to think of Rgvolution?

é He says that if the Germans invaded Spain the people would rise. As we. said, he

is stpiying for his bachelors degree, His aatriculatim costs,i-:cluding the price
@f books, about S00 pts; before it used to cost 200. Re says that studying has

become very difficult. He says :that all students belong to the 3.2.0, although it.
Seats obligatery, but they are coerced, ani they. join in order to. be in a good

Ofte. :

QB _COMITIONS OF _117R —. Bs explains that in therationing they allow aK: of
: po-atoes per person a week, a-quarter litre of :live oi, 200 gr. of vegetablés
+ ORs ema on'that except those tho have a let of money; the rest go



E i os me

peered meaneepenne nn earn + cee er meee epenetnyeen etic ae
- 18 = gfeeie -

‘ i ot afford
hungry. The workers, who aré paid the same salary as before, cannot los

to deal on the Hlacc Markot and he says tat there have been Ces!
Hornos where workera have fallen desi from hunser st work. This are
discontent althsch it 1s not, openly expressed. How they have sppo key’ |
wardens in tne factories in Bilbse, and the workers receive pete
Here te ia contradicting himself, becauss sonetines he says tLAr Loe
vere demanded cy the workean ( which would be a desonatration re
and souetines he says trat the directors asved for chem. He says FOAL (A Oe
of rything he cannot understand why when food production is on.the per
tho workers are 60 badly fed. Later he says that thay wateh thea clos ty :
_---foree then to work without ceasing. Be relates (ekthcuy:. ve enw no do: ry
that the middle class does not feal the pinch like the workers.

tes the
Ww Ng, — They extat just as they did before. He cf
FORTAR RONTEMT DH ne excors‘ongs. These organisations are not con—
trolled by the Falange. Young people are as gay as before, ani dance and go
to the mountains,

ARMY — “He refers above all the discontent of the families because thelr sons
have te spend four years in the army, He says that thoy desonstrate their
discontent and that they ali want to be demobilised. But this open discontent
4m confined, he says later, to private conversation,

REPORT Fo.358

CrA INTs PRU ‘= & Mexican student, who has always lived in Gijon, Spaine Bis

y ia comfortably off and he is going to Maxico to join his father as he
lived on what his father sent him in dollara and when this was forbidden he
decided to leave Spain. He is an ardent Palangist. is ignorant of all problexs
of che working and niddle class. He only associated with people who were very
well off, and especially with Falangist students. He is very cultured.

Be says that he was in‘Qijon at tho beginaing of the war and remained there
till now as he was a Mexicm he was nolested by naither party. p

HURGSR — He rountly asserts that there is no hunger, only a scarcity of certain

arti That withrationing “there is not enough for one mouthful® but that

he never felt the want of food. That the olive cil raticn ie 1/8 of a litre

sited owery 15 days, and so on for all other commodities. that the rationing of
bread (black breed, since white can only be got on the Black Merket) ia arranged
in three categeries, and for that there ore thres classes of éards — poor,
widdleclass, and rich. That the ration of the poor ia larger, as thoy have less
money for buying on the Black Market. That at Belmonte, Asturias, the rations
sre double what they are in Gijon. That rationing is different in each provines,
and even in different places in the saze provinee. He says that no one is :
interested in polities, that everyone's daily preoccupation is food. He says ia
that "it wad to make him lauzh to see well-to-do old peoplu who in all their
conversations spoke of nothing but the price of beans and bresd ete,* When he
was asked for facts he says that it is obvious that the poor (by which he neans
the workers) who earn 10 or 12 pts. cannot buy anything contraband and live on
their rations, which causes them to suffer somewhat from Inmger and be very
discontented, Ho eays that the @ hunger is caused by the war and the blockade,
because as soon as the Spanish war was over there was sbundance of. everything end
frees exchanges, end as soon as the European war began there was scarcity and
rationing. He also says at the same time that theause of the acarcity ie that
the Government-has-bought-thousands and thousands of tons of food in case_thi
aituation gets any worse. That this is good palicy of the “Gensralissino
that the Falange is doing a lot of propaganda, saying that it is much better to
keep the food now, whan a lot is-coming from argentine and the U.S., than to
@at it now and then if the aituation gets worse, have nothing. That the people
who are "good stuff® accept it, but most people protest and complain. . He says
that mother cause of hunger are. the Provisions Committees, which, like those
/ @£ Gijon, are composed of bandits who sell as contraband the articles they are’

supposed to: divide.among the population, :

— He‘ says that @pain will not enter the war, that this ia



+; Bumerical superiority of ten to one end. cansed thé Russians many losses. Thay

. Later he confessed that all.the Spaniards would fight against the. Oermans in

: than ten days, fthat os they. fought hn eet Acta

- he : (8

which is wry intelligent, as it knows how to maintain a balance in the
situation.and remain neutral. Ho says that the Spaniards are very favourable
to Geraany because they could have penetrated inte. Bpain and taken “bralter, |
thus closing the Mediterranean to the English, but that it is % German idea
that ono wget be pleacant®, After arguing-a little with him I eaid that Germany
might not have inveded Spain beeaxse she waa not interested in dispersing

her troops, considering that she needs them all for fighting against Riseios

case uy tnvede Spain because ‘the Spaniards are very fond of their indo’ |

pendence, ani would fight anyone who wished to enter Spain. The. Spuntsh Govern~

ment ig a partisan of neutrality and the immense majority of the Felange Seetesetite
think that Spath should eend voluntesrs to Russia but "not enter the war? +
because they do not know that many thousands of Spaniards would be Killed,

PRSPARATIONS POR TH? WAR, — Ho says that 12 Spain much petrol has been stored and

that now tanks are under construction. EH says that this too “ie tur being fi

kept for the det times®, and in case eyone tries to invade Bpain the '39, fee el
140 and "42 drafte cre obit eed. The '41 draft has been sent how. Tho 42

draft was called up with a three nonths! delay, They spend two years in

military service. There is aleo a prowailitary service fr Youth Ofganisations.

Thia is mt obligatory tut it is eounted as time spent in the sarvice end for that

Peasen every one doos it.

reason — Be says that there are no Gorman in Spain, Bg has seen none and 80
on, If there are any they are dieguised”as peasenta. He ig not certain that they
are maxing fortifications in the north ef pain, ijon is in fact defended by two
ships, one of them a *sulta~tacos” and if thore was an English invasion there
ethey wuld be the mastara%

— Fe says that it is not a fact there are more factories

a t Be rs ae ‘Spain which were not there before, and they do not work for

That the Germans say in thelr propagenda that they mean to suspend
pendhaaly ist acirictans: be@ause they have enough. That Germany is selling a
quantity of war material to Turkey, vhich is a proof tha. thay have no need of
4t, therefore armaments are rot mamfactured in ‘Spain nor exported, But he
takes the opposite view, that Bpain receives material from Germany; there are
frequent consignzents, mostly tanks. What Spain does sed, not, "as soma nat because
‘the Germans take it®, but because the Governnent gives it bery willingly, is
food. Every day many loaded open care leave Spain and the people talk of it and
are dig _sontented, but those are only thor who Sikink with their stomachs".

DESPATCH OF WORKERS, — He cannot be accurate about the quantity but many thou-
hare gone, volunteers. Hs says it is quite natural for a man with

no food or job to go there ‘wharethey eat well and can send monsy hom and because

all the "poor® are like that. That is the reason they "go as volunteers and are

gled to better their position®,

£30) —~ 40,000 went, all volunteers, among thea som qiite wolleimowmn

ry nguished Falengists. The sumber of volunteers was so great’
ee they hal to close the lists and there ore many thousands still w siting
for their tarn to go when they send reinforcements, In April 3,000 who had been r
relieved cama home, $gat they wore all very happy. Eg had many friends, who had
gone and others who were ready to leave Our informant asked theait thay hed
hed many lossos but the legionaries maid that this was a lie, they had hed very fow
— trad been many wounded, to the point that not one of. ‘them had not
\t-least-once.--_All those ho come home have bean winded. " They say
tet "it is very cold but they stand it very well and are auch congratulated by the |

Germans. They wear the German uniform and the red cap. They say they behaved

sdrvellously.in Russia ani gave the Russians a bested. “That the Rusalans. are
brawe, that is why they attack them fromtehind, but that thay do not: know how
to fight and.do not have good efficers, although they have an anindance of
material. “they attack in mass formation and do not care about. thekr.Josses, so
that very few pi the trenches; That men of the division always fought ine

were congratuated by the Masia and often appeared in the Ogrman war cousiuniques.
‘That on occasions they established:s aalient:on a river | restated: for sore’

JeaSRiewntlens ee



= © were S11

entree tna

a crated with the iron-eross. Our informant thinks that they
bene reita ‘than they confess to (all t-ose he, spoke with were Falanzist
students), and that in the casualty lists published only the names of the.
most important are given. .In Spain everynne admires’ the courage of the
Legionaries and praises them twice as cuch as the S,reans do, He tr:
that they are all volunteors, and says in tia own words ~ "a few ideai‘sta
and the rest, the immense aajority, because they were in a bed ~caition
in Spain and could get nos work or food. ‘They went into the Div. Amul in order
to earn a good living because they are paid at the German rate and a war
bonus, plus an allowance and large indemnity in case of death Besides,
if they are brave they can dasart, when they go on leave they
pts. in their pocksts and can put on airs and pose heroes in
and their iron crosses in Spain®, He says that althcugh the 1:
there are thousands who are ready to leave at a day's notics, and taat ho
"mows several." They said they celobrated Christmas very happily in February
as they sent them tobacco and food from Spaing

He says that in Spain there ia a lot of talk about the war, although
no one bothere about politics at all now, snd only gput food, There are all
sorts of parti partisans of the Allies snd the Germans, and azong his friends
the people are tly partisane of the Germans; hx Zlso thinks the majority of
Spaniards sre on the side of the Qgrnans°and enong tho 150 in his pniversity
ball only teo were partisans of Democracy ‘and they had fierce @guments in
loud voices until the director cass, The partisans of the Masis maintained
that anyone who wanted England to win was not a Spaniard because bf the
Dasoeracies win Prieto will come back and all the Reds-of the Republic, and
there will be a government of Leftists and in this fashion they attach the
defenders of England. The students say ~ “wo are very fond of Ogrmany, because
sha helps us to be free of communism ani ig now defending us against it,” H
says that this appeals to many people who also hate comzunism, eI

SECOND FROMT, — He says thas no one believes it will be established. The
‘(Gérmans cannot invade England, nor can the Engvish invade Burove. All
Spaniards would unite to defend themselves fpom the English. Theywuld do the
same if the Ogrmans invaded Spain,

OR THE WAR,— He eaid that the Spanish idea was that it would last five oF
gix years and that when they were all exhausted there wuld be an armistice

or negotiated peace, Thia is tte ozinion of the people on the Right and the
Palanzista; he does not <uow the views of the rest. Fifanco said in a speech -
8~f the Bussies make a breach and arrive at Berlin, he will send two million
meh to fight comrunisa", They do not attack the Republicans much, but blame the
Russian egente and the Coacuntats for all tnat is hep;ening in Spain, He says
that in Hendaye there are hundreds of asro-lanes afd many fields full of
tanks. The Germana have war naterial on tke frontier in fantastic quantities,
Be thinks that,ie in order to be in a position to assist either France or
Sain if it ware necessary. :

FRICTION —- He says that thore are. no disagresnents botwoen the Requtes,
Falangists or Catholics; they are all united, and if there were ar$ friction
there are no scenes or Qua rrels betsuse the “Generalissimo® would shoot them,

FRENTE DE LA JUVENTUD, — He says that it was a failure, that at the
beginning many pecple ware excited by the propaganda, then they got tired and
practically the Youth Front does nct exist. :

SRDS These. areal) Semevery hacpy to be members of the S.B.U. because
avoid military service. The $,3,0. ‘8 obligatory. The only corps they
have to belong to is the University Wlitia, In sumer they goto camps where _
they have military instructim and ere commanded by students who are officera
With some officers fraz the army.

: Eee OF TR. POFIR — ‘There ia none at all, “In Spain there is a
‘alitarisn Government favourable to the Ggrmans. In totalitarian countries
: there ave no protests or any resistance becanss. anyone who resisted wuldbe

‘Ghot.. There are.digcontented pecple ‘but they are silent, they de: ntt speak
‘because they cannot. I have.seen no inseriptiotbn the walle of Gijon, the

only thing there are a few. robbers; the. so-called Guerilleros, who rob, kill



P he:
end assassinate, Taree son Puerto de Somiedo, t'
gunned a bus wits traveliers in it a:d the Civil Querd re new teeny
are assisted by tne discontented peasants ai their fanilies. : :
to Franco, «uth treir Lande free of blood, he would pardon then%,

POR at the vesinni.g tuey snot asny pwple, expecially to pe ed :
Personal scores. Mow it is done through tre tribunals. It is a fact thal
shooting continues, but only for those andeaned to death.

FUTURE PROSPECTS — Perhaps the ond of the war will solve all these, probleas,
The Govevnaenta of Spain wi. i:puse peace, law and order ‘as soon es the wer
is over. : sal ba

RESTORATION OF TM ONARCEY, —— All a }le; all respectable people euprort
Franco and tae Geagroesenta there are between the partie: do not constitute

a problen,

. DESAGREMENTS IN THE ARVY —- He says thera are ncne, Quel po was sen’ out_side
Spain diplomatically, as a drunzard and a rescal, 9 all the army ie with

Franco ani Hitler, win have aaved Spain and Burope from Communism,

PSCONSTBUCTICN — He pays there is a lot being done in the way of reconstdestion.
Jn Gi jon they lave built hundreds of new houses and the town is wry cuch changed.
The people vio have ccney are afraid :+ will lose its value, dally, and eitbar
bulld or se the money for bubinsss. 4e8042,

REPORT No.SS7

JOSE FAGOS, a peasant, resident in Cuba for 11 years, returned to Spain
1n-1940. At that tise he was a Prenquist. He is veyy backward ard extremly
suspicious. 4b f:ret Le refua_ed to epeak, especially when he was tcld that
he nust teik to a journalist. He knows very little, since he lived in a esall
village in the district of Btrade and only left it to embarlt. He oftenmys
that he knows nothing, and can orly give informatizn about his village that io
not political. Is ascderate antiafalangist, and continues tom@fend franco, of

ta whom he has a righ opinicn, in many instance The first thing he asserts is that
in Spain there is not so mch hunger as they say bere. There is a scarcity
cansed by the war tut it la Just the same as it is everywhere, those with money
eat and those without go hungry. I$ is not true that they requisition the
peasants' cro-s, at least in the part of Spain ke knows. He says that
- everyone eays in Spain that they contr.2 crops, and even if they force them to
ell at the standard rate they leave the sants enough to eat. If ia otvious
that everyone maces fun cf the order and hides the produce "but it is not that
they requisition them, but that the Government contrcla produce and they
have to sell it at fixed rates.” He says that he has a trother in the any and
the soldiers are very wel. fed. Tre f:c4 is eel! prepared but rather acarce.
In Estrada they get the ixmst two regulation loaves just aa before the war,
but in Coruna treai is scarcer in the barracks. What everybody wants is for
the war to end, anyhow, wrat is wanted is peace and tranquillity. Wyen asked |
bout the second front he says evuryore is soping for the English to“ccre ani - | ~
give orders in his house Sut when the people are so ahxicus they want som~ . 7
thing te hapren to change the situation and see if it isproves®, On further 1 i
questioning he confesses that 90% of the po;ulaticn are against Franco = not on
his own account but cn account cf the hunger and misery there is. ‘
There is «0 repressica. Pe '9 only executed legally, through the ssaiiet

tribunals:
Be says that no one wishes Spain to enter the war, aid Franco, "if he could, wi
would have bean on the cther side already, but_as he has the Germans cn the
frontier be can.ot do it*. The rich ant the zanarchists are discontented, and
~. there are many people wlo were deceived and do n.t like. the present. reine.
-ABked whether the people support the Germans cf the Allies, he says —
some on each side. A little later he says everybody hates the dermans and is
afraid of their encroachments, except ths Palancists.. ‘ a i"

@ arrive, which is natural. Ey says Bs oes not want, the English te:



sao forenctomncnnerneennmamrimamtte utente tn renter : i
: - 7 - : : 9/4ei2 recta 7

es Division AZUL, he saye was voluntary, at least the papers say 60
though I do not know®, (His most frequent phrase is "the s-apers Bay 80
but nobody knows#).- Be ‘asserts that there were many. volunteers and one
went froe the municipal governsent of Estreda, his villages ha was the
assistant to a high official. He does :ot know anything about the. sur
vivors. Ba gives tho addroea of a Cuban tho arrived in the SComillas® with
an amputated foct,’a veluntesr in the Eloe Division. (The father ‘of, the Legionary,
when questioned at the port, siid he was lane thr-ugh an accident),
He confirms the stories about Queipo and Yague, ‘In Vigo he beard the
following story — The Governor of Burgos was ixprieoned for black marketesring
“and a son of tis, a licutenant in the army, went to Madrid to see Serrano
Suner, tho refused to soe him and told }:im to see his secretary; the lieu=
tenant refused and waa referred to the Aide-de-Camp. The Aldeade-Caxp
unfortunate!y asked im what he wanted and the Governor's gon said ~ *I
wanted to put two bullets in $, Suner, but as I can't I'l) put them in
you instead®; he shot hin and left him dead.

In Vigp a bad meal cost him 20 pts, He does not know anything about it,
but the people sathe Germans take everything. When we ask bJs opinion
about the scarcity of rice, olive oll, etc. hs ends by saying that he thinks
too that the Masia take it.

FUTIRZ PROG@ECTS — He says that any rogine will do ea long as it is not
this ona, No blood to be spilt and ®those in the wrong® to be pardoned. There
are sany people in the wrong tho joined Fraico, but have now repented. He
gays that those pale fear the fall of Prmco because there would be ro=
tribution, and many people would be killed, but if the Republic could cone
without bloodshed everyone wuld be delighted.

A cow 1a worth 5.000 pts. The Civil Quard turn a blind eye to the con-
traband shlos of the peasants because it suitu theme

Ero Fo.358

Report from a youth of 17, a Cuban, born of Spanish parents, whu
was living ia Santander Sr about ten years with his grandmother, He has
no pokitical convictions and in some respects is rathar influenced by Nazis
and reactionary propaganda, He is quite a wide-awake intelligent boy. Hg
talks wth no reservations and seems to be telling everything he knows.

\TTITUDE OF THE SPANIARDS TO THE WAR AGALHST § -—~ He says that in
one which eurporta the Ogrmans and wishes
for their triumph and the other which sympathiees and hopes for the victory
of the Allies. Bi the first class 3 Suner standa out, it includes all the
Falongo, some generals, and the middle class, governnent employees etc.
The other class includes the majority of Req@ates, the rich whose monsy is
in London, the workers, end all the poor in general. Eg says that in Spain
: 4t ie only permitted speak in favour of the Ggrmans, ami that the partic
wane of the Allies ape. Asored afd teofig-trusted friends. With the
passage of tim, owing to the Ggrman caspaign in Russia, which the Falangists
said would end in a week, there is growing a losa of confidence in the
German triumph, both among the partisans of the Allies, who were dispirited at
‘ the beginning of thé Russian catpaigm, and among the supporters of Germany
i themselves. Ee says that in Spain, except for a couple of Falangist’ “focla, mo
. : E -One-wante-the-war,-not-even -the.aray chiefs, much 1.
: : really thinks that if they gave the order to march, po one_would protest, but
he does not insist on what would definitely hsppen. ‘The Oerman’ defeata in-
Rascia, which are considered very izportant in Spain, have’greatly contributed
i to raise the morale of the enemies of the Falangs, who ere now. resisting it
si . openly. (Be refers to the. Requetes and in gumukx gentral_te the partisans of.
a jaa 3 i England tho are. very mumsrous)

Ggrman propagania, which is very widespread,
ays thet the submarines sank.all the ships whieh campe to Eurepe and that.
_ there was very little use in producing a quantity of war-material if it never

Teaches 'Barope. Me-adda that the people realised that the-Germans were -


acd assassinate, Taree sunths ago at tie Puerto de Somiedo, they ict
gunned a bus wits travellers in it ani the Civil Ouard Pehunere ies
are assisted by the discontented peasants ani their failié: if they

to Pranco, «th their Lande free of blood, be would pardon

y sot many pweple, especially to pay off
Wow it {@ done through tre tribunals. It is a fact that
shooting continues, but only for ticse o:ndemed to death.

FUTURE PROSPECTS — Perhaps the ond of the war will solre all these problens,
The Gove:nnenta of Spain will izpure pesce, law and order as soon as the war
is over.

RESTORATION OF TW MARCHY, —— Al] a Jie; all respectable people suprert
Franco and the chcagreenente thers are between the partie: 4o net constitute
a problea.

” DESAGREEMERTS IN THE — Be says there are ncne, uelpo wes sent out side
Spain diplomatically, as a drunkard and a rascal, as all the arny ‘e with
Franco ani Hitler, wio.bave saved Spain and Burope from Communtam,
ng done in the way of reconstdustion,

RSCONSTRUCTION — Ha ways there ia a lot bei
JR Gijon they Rave built hundreds of new houses and the town is wry much changed.

‘Tha people who have ticney are atraid 1% will lose its value, daily, and eitger
build or use the coney for buhiness, 4804,

REPORT Wo.5S7

JOSE PAGOS, a peasant, resident in Cuba for 11 years, returned to Spain
in 1940. at that time ne was a Prenquist. He is veyy backward and extremly
suspicious. At first he refused to speak, especially when he was told that
he must talk to a journalist. He knots very little, since he lived in o small
village in the district of Bstrado and only left it to emarl. He oftenays
that he knows nothing, and can only give information about hie village that is
not political. Is a ucderate antiefalangist, and continues todafend Franco, of
whom he has a high opinicn, in many instances. The first thing he asserts is that
in Spain there is not so such hunger as they say here. There is a scarcity
cansed by the war but it ie Just the sane as it is everywhere, these with money
eat and those without go hungry. If is not true that they requisition the
peasanta!, crovs, at least in the part of Spain ke mows. He says that
everyone -says in Spain that they contrs1 the crops, and even if they force then to
all at the standard rate they leave the peasants encuch to eat. I} is obvious
that everyone makes fun cf the order and hides the produce "but it fs not that
thay requisition them, but that the Government contrcls produce and they
have to sell it at fixed rates.” Ee says that he has a brother in the eray and
the soldiers are very wel. fed. Tt. 4 is well prepared but rather scarce.
In Entrada they get the xxumt two regulation loaves just as before the war,
but in Coruna breai is scarcer in the barracks. What everybody wants is for
the war to end, anyhow, what is wanted is peace and tranquillity. Myen asked
about the second front he says everyone is noping for the Ingliah to”come ant
give orders in his houge but when the people are so anxious they want som—
thing to happen to chanze the sitcation and see if it inproves®, (Cn further
that 90% of the pozulaticn are against Franco - not on
count cf the hunger and cisery there is..
fon. People ars only exscuted legally, through ‘the i

Be says that no one wishes Spain-to erter:the war, and Franco, if he could, wr
would have bean on the cther side already, but as he has the Germans on the
frontier be caniot do it® The rich ant the menarchists are discontented, and
there are nany people wto were deceived and do nit like the present. regine. -

-ABked whether the people suprort the Germans of the Allies, he says —
eome-on each side. A little later he says cverybody hates the Germans and is-
afraid of their encroachments except the Balangi ste.

oa # arrive,: shich ie natural. He says Be oss not et te Beli to



DIVISTON AZUL, he says was voluntary, at least "the papers say £0

though I do not know®, (His most. frequent phrase is “the ;apers say #0
but nobedy knows®). Ha asserts that there were many voluntesrs, and one
went froa the municipal government of Retrada, hie villages he was tho -
assistapt to a high official. Bs does not now anything about the sur~
vivors, He gives the sddress ‘of a Cuben who arrived in the "Comllas® with
an tated foot, a voluntear in the Blue Division, (Tho father of the breach
when Questioned at the port, eaid he was lame thr ugh an accid¢ent).
He confirms the stories about Queipe and Zague, In Vigo he heard tho
following story - The Governor of Burgos was imprigoned fcr black marketesring
and a son of his, a lieutenant in the army, went to Madrid to see Serrano
Suner, tho refused to see him end told him to see his secretary; the lieve
tenant refused and wes referred to the Aide-de-Camp. ‘The Aido=de-Canp -
unfortunately asked Him what he wanted and the Governor‘s son aaid ~ T
wanted to p.t two bullets in S, Suner, but as I can't I'll put theain ~-
you instead®; ho shot him and loft hin dead. :

Tn Vigp a bad meal cost him 20 pts, He does not know anything atout it,
but: the people saythe Gera:ns take overything. When we ask hga opinion
abut the scarcity of rico, olive oll, etc. ende by saying that he thinks
too that the Hasie take it,

FUTURE PROSPECTS —- Ho says that any regine will do as long as it is not
this one. No blood to be spilt and ‘those in the wrong" to be pardoned. There
are many people in the wrong who joined Franco, but have now repented. He
gays that those pecple fear the fall of Frmco because there would be rew
tribution, and many people would be killed, but if the Republic eould come
without bloodshed everyone wuld be delighted,

. A cow ia worth 5,000 pti Tho Civil Quard turn a blind eye to tha con~
traband shles of the peasants because it suits thems

BEPORT_No,358

Repert from a youth of 17, a Cuban, born of Spanish parents, who
was living in Santanier fr about ten years with his grandmother, Hs has
no pokiticad convictions and in sone respects is rather influenced by Nasis
and reactionary propaganda. Hp is quite a wide-awake intelligent boy. Ey
telke with no reservations and seo: to felling everything he knows,

TTITUDE OF THE SPANIARDS TO. AR AGATHST. o- He eays that in

Spain there are tw p. ja, ons which supporte the. Garmans and wishes

for their triumph and the other which ayspathisosand hopes for the victory

of the Allies. Bi the first class S, Samer stands out, it includes all the
Falango, acme generals, and the middle clasa, govarnmetit employees etc.

‘fhe other class includes the majority of Reqétes, the rich those money is

in London, the workere, and all the poor in general. “Eg says that in Spain

At is only permitted t gpeak in favour of the Cgrmans, ami that the partie

sans of the Allies spe. Secret afd smetg-trusted frienis. With the
passage of tins, owing to the German campaign in Russia, which the Falangists

said would end in a week, there’is growing a loss of confidence in the

Gorman triumph, both among the partisans of the Allies, who were dispirited at
the begiming of the Russian campaign, and anong the supporters of Germany a
thanselvos. He says that in Spain, except for a-couple of. Falangist*fools, no

one wante_the: war, not_even_the aray chiefs, much lesa the soldiers, He a
really thinks thet if they gave the order to march, go one_would. protest, but ~
he docs not insist on what would definitely happen, The’ Ogrman “defeats in. |
Rassia, which are considered very important in-Spain,. have” ‘greatly contributed --
’ to raise the morale of the enemies of the Falange, who are now:resisting it
openly. (Bs refers to the Requetes and in guumix gentral_to.the partisans of
. Bngland who are very mmercus), The entry of the Usis inte the war. was not
considered very important, because Ggrnan: propaganta, which ta vary widespread,
Saye that the submarines senk, all. th ships Witch campe-to.Burope and that
there was very little use in producing a quantity of war material if it never
reaches Europe, Bo _edds-that: the people realised that the Germans ‘were:



-; ware defeated alresdy and nevertheless months passed and the war went on,

exaggerating, since in the Russian Campaign they sail that the Russians

Our informant did not know the existence of the Anglo-Soviet and Soviet
American pacts, although he heard some agreement spoken of, but he never
know exactly what 1t sas. There was a lot of talk about the second frent,
and it is thought it will be in Prance., When asked ehat,in the event of

the English landing in Spsin,the attitude of the peonle wuld be, ho says he
thinks the Requetes would unite with them, When I told him I thought they
had sent a brothar of mine to tie Div. asul. he male a face as if they hed
sont him to the devil. "TI am sorry, because those w.o go to Russia in genera

_ do not return, and those who do come back arecrippled for life’ Hg says

that @e the Div, Axul was joined by the unfortunates tho are, with their
families, dying of hunger, ind adventurers end robbers; some too because
they were soldiers already and did not dare say no because tiey would have
cut their throats if they had. He says that in the beginxing a croup
of 40 left Santander and a few months ago toncane tone, armless, legless
or tubercular, the refitdicd bf it. One of them, a captain, and tubercular,
told scae of hia faully and friends that all the Ggraan propaganda on the
Russie war was anabsolute lie. That the Russians never retreated until they
wera killed or received an order to retreat, That 1t ig a lie to say’ that
they have no leaders, and similarly that they have rio material. He mew
better than mybody what the war in Russia had already cost the Germans. .
During the winter they had lost millions of men and a great deal of
material. It was terifying what want in there, He says that those who come
back from Russia are forbidden to speax of what they and therefore
it is imposaible to get more détails. However they tell their friends in
confidence.

ASSISTANC2 GIVEN BY THE FRANCOPALANGIST ROGIME To HITLER, —- The reinforcements
they send to the Div. Asvl grow less each time, No one wants to go because
the stories of the survivors are gradually passed round, He adds that the
Germans pay them very highly. They give them $,000 pts, just for crossing the
frontier. A few months ago a few left Santander to concentrate in San
Sebastian. It is there that they train. While before, they made propaganda
out of those who wero going to Rusia, and saw then off at the Station, now
it ie done ‘otly.

Ml foodstuffs are sent to Germany, that is why there is fasine in Spaing
"I wish you cofild see all the things they send. Inmagine that one can’ get
olive ofl, which used to be eo abundant in Spain®, They say that in Bilbao
and in Reinosa (7) and other places the factories work for the Germans.
.decording to him there are no Osrman soldiers in Spain, only technicians.
Germans in civilian clothes are particularly common, He added that the
Ogreans spend mitlions on propaganda and there are many newspapers, reviews,
pamphlets etc. which are distributed gratis. The pecple, as a result of so
much propaganda, do not ‘mow what to think on some points. They say = "If
what the Germans say of Russia is true that country is doomed to disappear;
there is nothing but savagery there”. He says that same German propaganda
postcards show Roosevelt and Churchill dressed as prostitutes, and Stalin
in the middle embracing them. The people do not like this kini ‘of propaganda,
As for the German infiltration into the ccuntry, he limite Hmself to saying
that they are the masters in Spain, He gives no data. ays that the
Falange is very much woakened, that only timeservers and. who'do
business, thanks to the positions they occupy jn.it,are its supporters.. é
Bhereas, when -it-began,; evayybody wished to be Falanzists, now no one takes
any notice, and some people are careful to condeal the fact that they:
ere Falangists. ‘Thoy say that the Requetes appear “very jet. They were
the ones who fought hardest in the war and cow-the Palangiste are taking
advantage of the victory, Be says they do not giv positions to. the ~
Bequetes, and when the Palanzists ecntrol the ‘syndicates thay do not give. - 4
them work either. There is a great deal of discontent among the Requetea; and:
they. have already. begun'to speak. openly against the. Falangists:and those.whom
they. blame for: the present. situation in Spain, - They accuse them of being:

: webpbers. Be. “Baye that. they have. printed -breadshests about. the -Falang which =.
“thay seater: on the: streete and tick on walle: at ni .
“wyndicetes have ‘many menbera,.

ght. «He ‘adds-that the:
ausé-Sembership isobligatory, wat if<it . --
‘Were not 80 no-one. would belung.: “They. oblige. tena “young men to enter the-

Mfreate Bade de Le dumentod®, an 2 Seny are -gleasy seing thatr fear, ‘end



. zainst their will, do not
patanar arte 5 to Germany, he oaye bg
and food as weal,
tite the rembera of tbe

- do not Join, or, if they make th:
pay the duss. Referring to the di boyd pptos} -
numbers were hgh because they offer ea a Kt

iE ion that they were deceived, like the ©

t know any rore detatl&e

FRICTION PRTWEEN TH2 RULING CLASS 1 SPAR, —— In tho arsy there is ante
Headed by Yazue and Qeipo, who ae opposed to Spain enterin® the war, #d
Germana and Italians controlling Spain, He says that in conjuncticn.

Requetes and other individuals in the erry, they were-preparing @ COMP
against Pronco, and principally against S, Suner, who is tho worat hated o ,
tut it was found cut and no one knows what pep BA/ te Yague and. Queipo..

Generel Espinosa de los Monteros also had smmething to do with it, but hed
not know exactly wiat his part was. Referring to Yague, he says that he was :
diemissed from the Air Miniotry when he nade a speech in favour of releasing
the prisoners. Queipo refused to allow the Ijalians to have any olive oil.
The eituation of the soldiers is very bad. ey hardly eat at all, and are
very badly clothed. It 1a pitiful to see theg. They all wish tobe de~
mobilised as soon as possible. The '59 dra 3 Deen desobiiised and he
thinks the first reserve of the '40 draft as well. He thinks it is bec!
they cannot keep them in barracks for want of foode

THE PO)PLEIS RESIST, (C2 To TH WAR AND THB RESUS — According to our infore
mant the state of mind of the people is one of extreme hostility towards the {
present state of affairs, although it 1s uot obviously shown, The Reds
are in hifing, Be says that the cnly people who are openly fighting egainst
the Palange and the Regime in power are the Rgquetes. That besides the
pamphlets we have referred to above, there often appear on the walle, lampoons
and postera against the Palangs. He rememcers ono which said core or lese — Ay
“Paine and Theft, that 1s the Falange®, There appeared another very like it,
he does not know what it said because they rubbed it out at once. He says
the Requetes also accused the Falanghsts of being cowardly assassins wto ere
only userul for doing mass assassinations (dar Paseos").
The.people take a sympathetic view of theas actions of thé Requetes. In
the queues people xukmaxayx speak against the Government and the Falango.
There are nany prisoners, When the *nationalists® firat entered Santander thoy
killed people in thousands. The Palangists held many “passos*. They went on
killing, only less than at first. The prisoners died of their harsh treatment,
“ many were tubercular. He does not now if they cive them organised assistance.
Probably relaticns and friends. He does not «now of any activity of the party,
or the J.S.U. The Reds are very carefuily watched. The only ones who do_
anything are the Requetes. In general our informant does nct now any of ow
organisations because he was very young when the war began. The only thing he says ~
is the Falangists are like those they used to call the.P.A.I. They go to @
house, steal, take a man, take him and shoot him, and then it is finished’.
‘We cculd not get my information about the Union Nacional, although he gives the
impression that he does not <now anything about it. = - See
has no ideas .n the futurg prospects... He thinks that thie depends on
England; thero is talk that the Requotes wish to set up a King who fs not a
Bourbon. He does not -ncw anythifig/?he restoration of Don Juan, The Falangists
are enemies of the Mgnarchy and the people do not worry much about this
problem. Referring to the attack on 8, Suners Espinosa de los Monteros,
Ambassador in Berlin, had on one of his visits to Madrid, a violent quarrel -
with Suner and in consequence resigned. He reports that then he was sprointed
Captain General of the Sixth Region, Burgos, and on takbmg over the post he made
@ speech in which he attacked the Falange. He reports that as a consequence he z
was violently dismissed. A few days later a son: of the general who is a.. : E
lieutenant "in the army, shot~at~SsSuner several tines, he thinks in imdrid, -
_a¥rese was wounded in consequence. The press. said nothing about it. ° They
published a notice that the Secretary of the Party was undergoing an abdominal

‘The Italian sub:arine which’ entered Santander wes damiced in'the Caribbean.
A-fow uiles. from. Santander, and’ in full view of everybody, it. was attacked :
Very near the. coast by two English aeroplanes which all but sank1t: He. |
eays it entered harbour; listing over on one.side. ° The’ Engligh aeroplanes were’.
faire ..°' Bot able to finish the sinking becatse German: purmitt planes forced to
: : . Petire. hen asked where the (German) planes ‘cane. from he said Irun: ¥ enue



: . 4

- De 8/4612

the impression that he does mt cnow really where their base was)e 7 i

30,7542.

REPORT 373

A young Basque 24 cr 25 years old. By profession a metaleworker. Up to
the beginning of the war ho, was working with an-uncle in Zaragoza, Bé remained
in the battle sone throughout the whole: war and was mobilised in Frincote army,
Is a Basque nationalist, like almost all Ms family, Although a workman by
profession he always worked with his relati ns, almost alvays as.f-reman, or
‘at least as manager, Be has no politioal point of view nor are his class
foelinga very developed. He has never Delonged to any syndicate. after the
war was over he worked in Bilbm ina wire factory whare there wure about
@ thousand workmen. He final'y left work in order to devote himelf to tke
lack Market becauge, ecording: to hin, it was inpossitle to live on what he
was paidi at the factory, He lived in Rutionalist circles, they were tho
only ones with which he was con-ected. For this reason tis report is rather
incomplete, and in sore cases lacks objectivity. He is rather reserved,

ATTITUDE OF THB SPANIARDS TOWARDS THE ANTI-ITLSR WAR, —- In the graphic
words of the informant, 90% of Spaniards are partigans of England. . The
workers, peasants, petit—bourgeois, capitalists, and some of the clergy,
(later he told us the majority of the Basque cures) are cn the sidea@ England,
although in a passive way, and against Germany and the Falange.

The general opinion which is expressed in conversations between groups of
friends, and lately also in the street, is that the defeat of Gormany ie ine
evitable, due, according to our informant, to the fact that the Allies have
more econozic resources and more priniry materials. It is thought that the
United States will be a very important factor in theredivation of victory.

Also the defeats cuffered by Germany on the Eastern front contribate to
strescing this opinion.

Tn Spain everyone 1s tired of the war, and no one wishes Spain to take part
in it, There people are in a real panic on this score. OXr informant thinks
that if Franco should.cecide to ficht, in viewd the terrorist nature of the
Regine, the people wuld have to obey. Later in another conversation he said that
there were people who, in that case, would hide in the mountains,

‘The defeats suffered by Oermany on the Kastern front were well knom
there ant contributed to increase the peoplefs confidence. He says that they
paid there that, in apite of their resistance, it was obvious that the Russians
were not sufficiently prepared to faze a power like Germany.

The entry of the United States into the war was received with ‘oy by the
people who interpreted it as an event destined to shorten the war, of which they
are all very tired over there.

The Ratification of the Anglo-fussian Pact ond the american-Russian agreezant
is known there, althcugh the range and content of the pact and the agrement
were not imowmn. He says that the Falangist press; only said that these nations
had promised not to make a separate peace. ft

He does sot know t.e agreement about the second front, although this
subject is very often spoken of, with the idea that it would be the final blow to
Germany. Over there they think that the. opening of the Sgcond Front will remlt
in the rising of the French people, perhaps the Spanish people too. With tis idea

in mind the people often discuss possible landing place: It 1 thought that
ree wili-take-place-in-Francs,-although ome say it might also happen 4: Spaing
The opening @f the second front wuld be received with joy by alle.
: The attitude of the people to the “Division asul® is frankly. hostile. -

Tt has no sympathy from the people, everi from the very: moment, the: recruiting: was:
begun; He says, that“in the beginning a. few volunteers gave their ‘names, mainly” .
Falangists who w.shed to earn merit in order to tmprove’ their :posi tion in'Spaine
Others went because their position in Spain. was-desperate ani they thought it
might improve:if they left it.” Some, who. wend, in the arny,. found theasel ves.

4n the posi ticn 6f ‘not being able:to: refuse, because if they had they vould have ©
got into trouble: But. they all wentiin the telief that they wuld see the war
froma distance,. and: that they: were: really. being sent as a. symbolic deputation «
for the Moscow parade. He says the pres: made propaganda, asserting that the |
“@aish soldier ' could. fight in all climates, as they.had shown at Teruel. Ee



“general there is a great foeling.sgainst the Falange among the. 86

°. them in prisons He: says that th
- hat Spans ne : ;

-aue . Yasse

pays that’ when the names of the’first casualties arrived, the people were ¢led
and said *that will teach them to interfore in what does mt ccncern then,

The survivors cme back disillueioned. They rerent-of having zone. :
Majority of them come back ill or crippled. He adds that tne war in Russia

ie worse than the Press resorts.it; the Spanish war was child's play compared with
it. Tae Falangists are acre reserved and nake no'publie criticisms like the
others but azong their friends they also say that it was-terrible. They went
into action in fact just before the Russian co-nter-offensive began, -and
received the full trunt. They had tany losses through bullets and the cold,
Sone of those who came vack criypled have German iron erosses for which they

get a pension, our informant does not know the am cn},froz the Ggraan jovernaent.

SUPPORT GIVEN SY THS FRAMY ‘IST REINS AD TVR PALANGZ TO PITEER, — our
Anformant does nut know in whatquntity they send reinforcements to the Blue
Division. He thinks that there is soce exa‘reraticn on this noint on the pat
of the Falancgist Preas whth tries in this way to encourag thusd asm atong the
young men, Ha knows that the place they report to and tra‘h is San Sebastian,
and that from there they leave for thafrcnt. He thinks that they are still
sending people, but they are only "reliefs® for those who cone k:me, He adds
that those wio go to the Division aul today,with very few axceptions, do it
against their will. They get the majcrity of those who go from the barracks,
He says tliat many workmen went to Germany on account of the lack of food and
work. He dosa mt know hom many but he thinks a fair wuantity. He says that the
people take these things calzly cenerally, bacause they cannot do anytthz
against them. He only heard that in Ipum there had be2n some scene with the
Blue Diviebn or with the-workera who wire going to fermany but he zives noe
actual details, saying that it is dangerous t» try and know too much,

In Spain the fost fervent supporters of the Naxia are - Suner, Minos Grande,
Moscardo and other generals, and especially the “idealist” Falancists, or those
who cuititted injustices or profitesred and are afraid of "the table being
turned®.

Be says that the Falange is only the stadcw of what it was during the
war, That at the beginning sany people jo.ned it for safety's sake, cut now
it isfdead thing that no one takes my notice of, The same happened with the
WFlechas", “Frente de la Juventud e+e. The syndicates have rany members,
because membership is obligatory in order to get work. The workers would not
join them if they could help it. He says that all the directors are Falangist
bureaucrate who take a.vantage of thelr position to steal all thay can. He
Cltes-as-anexample the fact that employers are obliged to pay someting as
& contribution to the subsidy allocated to workuen with large fanilies,vut he
says that the Falangists do not pay it to anybody, but spend it themselves.
For these and other ateilar reasons there is a lot of discontent among the
@ployera,

Our informant says tmt they are still sending large quantities of food
te Germany, also iron and othgr materials. The people know that if there is
fanifie in Spain it is becaus&/the Germans and the "Black Marketeers®

Asked bbout the production of the metal factories in Bilbao, he says that
they are working at pressure, but he does not mow if it is xar material.

He knowa that pig-iron is being sent to France, he imagines it is intended
for Germany. Iron ore is aleo sent to France by SOBs H i

FRICTION AMONG THE RULING CLASSES, ~- He knows that in the aruy there i
‘eoling againat the Falange, but he says that it has‘ric outelde sn
The-only-incident-known there'was" the case of Yague and Queipo de. Llano,

ETB. i
consequence is that they make life impossible for Palancists, in amy,” i
Be cays that the majority of the Basque Priests are ea of Ogrmany;

of the Falange ‘md of Franco.” ‘They re very indignant: about t! : 3
of nationalist. priests’ carried out by France. Even today.there-ars*many of
priests devote voluntary masses to praying

‘ imay not enter the war.
Be says that other :membars: of the clergy, alttough. they are
Gattolic pergscutions :in Oermany ‘and: Poland, sim-ort Franco becall
help. ‘can, they ‘preserve. thal? positions, ° Coealiecnuieh ‘

t: and. most, influential people. there do not wish te: .

besause they feel ‘that:‘there will be a change"in Spatn ~~~ see
and they do not wish'to have the’ responsibility of the crima.comitted.by others.
Offielal poate are occupied by a seri if bandits. BL cree :

posed to the i .
‘hey balieve vat



He says t!.at even those wio belonged to th Falange before, young students, -
employees or just rich peo-le, do not wish to have. anything to-do with 1¢
now, and. say that the Palanze- is going to the dogs. :

Be adds that in general everybody hopes that: the triumph of England will
eause a change of government in Spain and so they confine themselves to waiting
alth:uzh there is talk of a possible coup dtetat by the soldiers,

RESISTANCE CF TYS PRO LB AGAINST ENTERINO. amar. JD AGAINST TH g
REwiMs — The pecole.wish to see the situation change as soon as pcasible, but
‘they believe that the solution must come from outside. According to our inforw
pant, there is nc thought of fighting againstd&a regime. Weeays that the
workers in the factory in which he worked spoke openly against the regige but
he does not know that there was any activity. (Given the character of the
inf:rmant wo may sup ose that even if there was he would take pains to icncre
At), From time to time the women ricted in the queues at firet they emt
them up, ::ow they say notiing, Be asserts that every day the people speak mre
openly ageinat the régine, The contribution to SAnxilio Social? was obligatory
before but now no one ‘When the young ladieg of "Auxilio Social® beg for
8 and ask the reason for refusal, sone people answer =

3a I do not wian to%

Be says that when Franco was at Bilbao the peale ee in their houses
ond he was received only by four “chats bottes® in the offices of the Falangéy
At the end of Franco's gsech not a soul applandel. Then eome Falangist
young ladies said, half in teara, "what wo must do is buy a machine gun and
shoot them all®

Assistance to the primners, according to our informant is given by relations

and fri. is no organised assistance, but he proceeds to tell us that
certainl: there have been collections sometinsa in the factory inf avour of the
prisoners, but “by groups of frienis®, He does not know of the ectivity of ay
organization, as such, The nationalists, according to him (he is a nationelist)
are tae ones wno have some organisation,
+ | They distributed thare a spesch made by Aguirre in America, (ne of tho
Prietots was also in circulation. Ee has no news of the other organisations
elthough he adaita that if they have any organisation they would not go and
tell him avout ite

When he ia asked about the activity of the different organisations of which
the Frente Popular is composed, and the attitude of the militant party members
of these orgatisations, he asserts categorically that there tne people are
completely united, and there is now no talk of socialists, anarchists, coamuniote,
Tepublicans.etc. All treat each other as comrades, nd halp each other
as thsy can. In Spain, aecording to our igformant, there are only now enscies
of Franco and the Palange, tho naintain a strict unity among themselves; they
discuss the progress of the war together,cou»ent on the situation etc. Bg says
that the people wish for unity, regret the dlsunion there was before in Spain
and the quarrels between different parties and anti~fascist organisations. :

Ba did n:t know of the shooting of Larra or Diegues. Tha execution of Larra
impressed him very much and he said that in order to do what Lerra had done one
would need plenty of guts.

& PROSPECTS — He repeats again that they beliewe in Spain that the-triumh
_ Of England will cause 9 change in the situation. (we cust. point out that for sone
time there have been currents in the Basque nationaligs which have been: secking
for a “golution® of their national problem with the assistance of Englend, :
transforming the "Pais Basque® into an ‘Englieh protectorate or Dominion: or,
something like that, and even during the Spadsh there were individuals tho -
_ thought that at the critical monent the Basques wuld receive >. from the English)
Our.informant told us at the beginning that there people spoke only in.
favour of England, but after considerable circumlocution he confessed that, the .
workers also syupathised very much with the Soviet Union, although conversations
in this direction were auch more restrained.’ He sided that the people were quite -
wel} informed about ‘the course of events as they listen daily to the bulletins
‘ @f Bedio London, and sone also: listen te those of Radio Moscow, ¥ .
‘The people in general are in favour 4 a@:, solution onthe: basis of. the’

this reason thay. are wor head tant 7
individuals are speciality the rich. If they believed: that the Republic: mula
be established wihhout bloodshed they would de in comlete agroenent with. ite



2/0,9042, easier ueseemaceaeoee
Copies to London, Hew York, Bermuda & Jamai

Be

Wn Spain they believe that Ritler ray be defeated in 1942, esrectaly
4f the Sscond Front is: started. They also say that Russia is bearing the
‘brunt of the fight.- : o :

eecaaticn about’ a monarchist restoration hss na ither delighted. cr
depressed the peo;le. The possibility does not arouse mich interest.

The people,who, according to our informant, Lave sost prestige in
Euskadi (Basque national territory) are aguirre and Prieto, especially the

jormer. : :
c ‘As regards conditions of material life he assures us that they are terrible
and that is the fundamental reascn why all the people have turned against
Yrenc@. There is much talk of “no.Loms without bread-or a roof®, but that
does not improve the situation.

ALL businesa is controlled by the "Hlack Marketeera® of the falange win, -
sheltered behind the Comittees of Supply, requiaition the crops fra: the
peasants at the standard rate, and instead of ssliing them to the people et’
the standard rate they reduce rationing to almost nothing in order to compel
the people to buy articles on the Black Market, at a price which will give then
the profits. E» says tha these who have/Roney to buy things contusband (and
they are the majority since salaries have hardly been increased at all in
comparison with presser 5! }) die of hunge He gives prices which
correspond with those for other regions of Spain’,

MOTE, the nilitary and naval information contained in these reports has been
extracted and supplied tc the S,0.1, Trinicad, and the Military
Adviser, Imperial Cersorship, Trinidad, under the reference numbers
S.B./3.0.Ie1, ant $,8./M.As1 resyectivel;.



ee nn

| LETTER prop bog! :

SECRET

MO NOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSTFR HAS BREN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER UFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDLT.TONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD ‘BE. REQUESTED “

|

FROM IP/F TILES:

.

i
!
\
TeDeSeHty LUIS, J 4 t
"201-0289247
SEX Mi | j i

Foot
CI ARGE | |
i :

_CONNEC TEN! W/OR- MENT ONEO in PALAC L05-NUNEZ. CASE. a
JINVOLVING SPAN COMMUNIST NETWORK» ase inex
IN LATIN AMER/' SEE PALACTOS-NUNE

FOR VOLUME 4S ~ANO PAGE 4sé

i i ee i
foot eG

1 i

i
i
{ i : . : ' i
DATE. 1s oct 7@ | . Jf 2
an : : \
|
'



Ynden Sec —
G 8 takes Lecbes 22600
Curerres flees :
& frikericke 969°
Pon hie



4

pee Cd
=item een eigen te Fee RRA

SECRET

(them filled tay
FIELD PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST.

Tap eine : pa

Anu _feenTer, CUS, Hee xe
12621

FROM

IMSTRUCTIONS: rere aust be typed or printed in Block F

SECTION 12 ast brown of and varients (including mace. 18 applicable) euse dectuatad. Tf the idane
a ries with the atiee weed, o sepacate fora must be ened. Brite (SEMEN for tens you ore unable

to Compler:
SECTION $1: Cryptonye of pacedonye wil! be entered 1 Meedquerters

SECTION 111: te be completed in alt cance

SECTION 1
[issn acne ea: as
Pomme IP PANT ABW “BIS = pet ia.
vee peep TRieaty iaiaatey This ro
— TEDESCHI huis “LE
a ane hing (aidatey Thay
iy Ei aa
, j
vr
a! AY OC AC ST Pee TTT)
ue we 22 Sal ital L Tule
SECTION TE
CayPTONYM } PScuDONve: ee
x SECTION
a nck tote Za!

C1443 as ow ne Minder Y) cA Spawiv Gomuuist Eady.
"Adds i943: Pichincha 469, Busueo Aus, Agqetira,

oT. Suapect ial 1443
nae Soiet es ins lox a SPELT

Titan BREE errr
2 fors8912 _ + SECRET RECORD COPY on

Toate

Wetisn te seme te


27 Jan 69 (NY)
RE: Carl Winter, Helen Winter
DBC 41305

FBT doc.

1 Feb. 1972 (NY)

fe RE: Jim Beynon

4 Bufile: NY 100-175210
4 DBD 31051

FBI doc.

26 B:Dec. "1968 (Seatlle)
RE: Boris Mikhaylovich Ozekhov
DBC 39101

i FBB doc.

2+ @ April 1963 (Detroit)
RE: The United States Festival Committee, Inc.
Bufile: 100-436225
DBA 39107

H
t

I doc.
SP sano 1969 aw)
-RE: Boris Mikhaylovich Orekhov, Galina Sergeyevna Orekhova

‘pBC-41307

. FBE doe?
24-Sune 1966 (Wash.) :
RE; Communist Party, United STates of America; Ineernational Relations

Bufile: 100-3-81
DBB 51452

FBI doc.

28 Feb. 1974 (NY)

RE: World Peace Council
DED 69841

FBX cable

11 Oct 1974 (NY)

RE: Communist Party, USA, International Relations
DBD 81515 '

FBI doc. 28

18 Oct. 1974 (Chicago)

RE:, World Peace Council ee ~~
Bufile: 1009-41972

DBD 82108



FBI doc.

27 Jan 69 (NY) :

RE: Carl Winter, Helen Winter
DBC 41305

1972 (NY) FI
RE: Jim Beynon
Bufile: NY 100-175210
DBD 31051

FBI doc,
26 A:Dec. 1968 {Seatlle)

RE: Boris Mikhaylovich Orekhov
BBC 39102 c

i
I
H

FEB doc.

a+ @ April 1963 (Detroit)
RE: ‘The United States Festival Committee, Inc. i
Bufile: 100-436225 :
DBA 39107 i

I_ doc.
Se GRo 1969 wy) .
se RE: Boris Mikhaylovich Orekhov, Galina Sergeyevna Orekhova

DBC~41307

Fer doc
{ 24 June 1966 (Wash.)
RE; Communist Party,
Bufile: 100-3-81

DBB 51452

United STates of America; Ineernational Relations

PBI doc.

28 Feb. 1974 (NY)

RE: World Peace Council
DBD 69841

sib icibesa Ann nea che Cad albert ties

FBI cable

11 Oct 1974 (NY) if
RE: Communist Party, USA, International Relations
DBD 81515

FBI doc. 28 Ee

18 Oct. 1974 (Chicago)

RE: World Peace Council saat seat
Bufile: 100-41972

DBD 82108

se

eS

eater

Staieesarny



FEI doc.
20 Aug. 1975 (NY)

RE: International Conference of Solidarity with the
Independence of Puerto Rico, Havana, Cuba, September, 1975
DBD 90674 :

FBI doc.

26 April 1961 (Detroit)
! RE: Michele Allison Winter
Field office file: 100-21782
DBA 1530

FBI doc.
16 Feb. 1971 (NY)
RE: Communist Party, USA, International Relations

Bufile: 100-3-81
DBD 5593

FBY doc

2 Feb. 1971, (NY) . :
REE Communist Party, USA, INternational Relations
it

BEB'AGg4 100-38


oe ot
y 7 EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IOENTIFICATION

‘Doc. Syme 8 WO. Date oF o0c. Fite CLassirication GF #EcORD COPY

FBI/DbD-97891 06. LL 76 |

Proc sunreer

LELEK MARY WINTER

SOURCE _INFORWATION

: ‘SOURCE CaYPTORYW, ate oF iro. EVALUATIOW

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Aleo cite doc. distribution, Dissem. No., ee. - if applica

t-— «

poynn

THIS ee ay

TS#768033

SECTION bi - TSELEBO2

“(J Indicate The Subject, Project Or
i 201 File No. In Which Tais
Form Is To Be Filed.

Psusster oF 201 (Lest. Firat, Middle)

WINTER, HELEN MARY

[EZ impber St ey, 207622)



RET
Filled Tn)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT ICENTIFICAT ICN

DOC. SYuAOL » nO-

FBI/DBD-97886 15 JUN 76

jo0c. suestet

SOURCE IFT ORHATION

‘SOURCE Carr-OnYM DATE OF INFO, vacation

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Aine cate

FILED ©
SECTION &.

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which Tais
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Lost, First,-Widdle)

WINTER, HELEN MARY



;

SECRE
(then FT In)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

tenn

: 4
t-

4

Syerou

FBI/DBD-91238

oe oF wEcORN COPY

7

Doe. SuBsECT

HELEN MARY WINTER

ieee Ta

PLES

rt
iy

:

R

Wo

TO A
i

‘Ts 208557

DY 2een sa cemenancmene

TO? SICRET DOCUMENT
fT CONTROL

ALES

Indicate The Subject, Project Or

201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

‘suesect oF 201 (i

WINTER, HELEN MARY

Ficet, widdle)

201- 289246



SECRET
(hen Filled 0)

EXTRACT AMD CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION.
DOC. SyMOOL ® NO. DATE OF DOC.

Pei fuvs-i4ed Lip Apr. fe |
Doe. SuBseet

HARY wINTcR

SOURCE INF ORWATION
‘SouRcE caveTonvu Date oF Ino. Eva eatiow

TERY OF EXTRACT (Aleo cite doc. diatcibution, Diswen. No.. ete. - if applicable)

-Indicate The Subject, Project Cr
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

‘SUBJECT OF 201 (Leet, Firat, Middle)

WINTER, NN MARY : 201- 289246

7

[Ea iaeper ci sy, GO7G22:



SECRET
(hen Filled t0)

EXTRACT AKD CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICAT IOS
ave oF coc.

FLL venus 456 dio ngr. ts

Boe. suuseeT

fhebn FanY abidek

‘SOURCE INFORMATION

‘Souace CavPTONrM,

THIS R
FILED i oP SECRET CONTROL

SECTION BY --ScsGith sens annnnnnncs

af
Hed
—

b3n- T7997

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

‘SUBJECT OF 201 (Leet, Fivet. widdle)

ieeinnisiastine 201- ci9Z4€
wINTER, HELE MARY

TE upoet CL ev. 07622) rer



SECRET
(then Filled Tay
EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT ICENTIFICATION

boc. syuHO 8 nO. ate oF voc. Fae

FBI/DBD-95432 03 MAR 76 201-028924

Doe. sueseet

HELEN MARY WINTER

SOURCE INF ORVATION

‘SOURCE CAYPTONvN, “pare oF imro. Evacuation

ae ee sseeseeeceeoses eae
TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Diswem. No-. ete. > ¥f applicable)

THIS REFER TO A TOP SECRET docu

i IM
FILED IN T'2 12? SECRET CONTROL :
SECTION BY fence

—

| Indicate The Subject, Project Or,
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

Gu0seeT OF 201 (Lest, First, widdle)

WINTER, HELEN MARY

“vom Use
Witte 867 Heyroes



wa EOE aes —

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

~_DOCUVENT IDENTIFICATION
Oe, syusoL 8 NO. DATE OF bot. Five eLassiFicaTion GF PECORD COPY

FBI/DBD-93305 201-289246

boc. Suasect

13 February 1976

HELEN MARY WINTER

SOURCE INFORMATION
‘Bounce caveronves DATE oF INFO. EvatuaTiow

“Disses. No.. ete. - if applicable)

THIS PE:
FILED 2:
SECTIGN BY _..

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc distributi:

'S# 208972

) a! A—

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

289246

20l-

SECRET

nf



. SECRET
(then Filled Iny

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

Ele seCT OF UOCLMENT ECCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

“ar rive no. | 201-006987

Y. SISPATCH O@ SOURCE DOC. SyMuOL wo.

HERRY WINSTOR

DOSUMENT DISPOSITION

13. TRANSFERRED 10
AL FILE RO.

Ve. GROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

PERTINENT INEOEWAT ION

a
Le
yee

[eee eared

, FORE BGT use vacvioes conrons. : SECRET : fest



O53 BOCUMENT EXTRACT
Siesiauiiisastonattee THE FIULLGWING INFORMATION COKCLPNING THF SUBJECT CF THIS 201
DUSSTER HAS FEN EXTPACTED FROM ARCTHEE CRFICIZL OO FILE.
PERSCUS PERFMAMING NAMC TPACES £60 CAUTIGNED THET THE COCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THES SXT&ACT WAS PREPAELD CONTAINS ACCITICNFL
INFOPMGTION PESTLINING TE THE SUBJECT AND SHCULD RE RECUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

AINTERe HELEN

: 6. 20170285246 on 200-004-208 /0%
3 SEX F bPO-69841
: 28 FER 7G
FAL
PS

MBR UsS.s DELEGATIGN TO WGFLD CONG2ESS CF PEACE
FORCES» MISCOW, USSH, 25-31 NCT 73, SPONSORED
By wPC.

DATE 27 “AP 74 09086070

EQ" IMPDET CL BY 054979.”



SECRET

“DO DOCUMENT ExTRACT —

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATIGN CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS REEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSNNS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE NOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THES EXTRACT WAS PREPAREC CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
“FROM TP/FILES. = Scere eee centre te

COWINTE®, HELEN :

201-0289246 : 100-009-022

SEX M 0BD-90674

ara seni 20 AUG 75_~
Fal
papa aes : 2 ae

“FROM THE POLITICAL COMNISSION CF THE C-USA

MBR DELEGATION U.S. SUPPORT COMM, FOR THE IN-  _
“DEPENDENCE CONF IN SOLIDARITY W/THE INDEPEN~

DENCE OF PUFRTO RICO



SeeeCaR ely:

DO DOCUMENT FXTRACT ate
“THE FOLLOWING INFORMATIGN CONCERNING THE SUBJFCT OF THIS 2017
DOSSIER HAS AEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL 09 FILE.
PERSONS PERFCRMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REGUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

WINTER, HELEN

201-0289246 201-0850469
SEX F 08D-75231
31 MAY 74
- - FBI

SECY OF INTERNATL AFFAIRS CPUSA INQUIRES RE
SQNORA SANDY PATRINOS IF SHE INTERESTED IN THE
- TRIP TO MONGOLIA

7“ OATE 27 JUN ©



"BO RocuMeNT ExTeact

THE FOLLOWING TNFORMATTON CONCERNING THE SURJFCT AF THIS 201
_ DASSTER HBS RFEK EXTRACTED FEQY ANOTHER OFFICIAL ON FILE.
PERSONS PFRFGRMING KAME T@ACFS ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE 9OCU-
_ MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXT2ACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADOETIONAL
ENEQRMATION PERTAINING TO THE SHAJECT AND SHNULC BE REQUESTED
FROM TPSFELES.

“WINTER, HELEN

— <u. 201-0299246 100-004-123
SEX F aN-74602
13 JUN 74
FRI

MAQ ME POLITICAL COWMTTTEE AND CHAI&MAN OF THE
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEF CPHSA,

MBR OF A DELEGATION F2OM CP USA WHO VISITED
MASCOW TO ENGAGE IN DISCUSSION W/LEADERSHEP
CPSU AURING PERTOD 4-10 MAY 74

DATE 23 JUL 74 . . 09144983

PH eee,

Lm



DO COCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING ENFORMATICN CONCERNING THE SUSJECT CF THIS 291
QUSSTER HAS BEEN EXTPACTED FRUM ANOTHER OFFICIAL 00 FILE.
cence cee wen =. PERSONS PEPFURMING RAYE TRACES ARE CAUTIUNED THAT THE DGC J-
MENT FROM atl CH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
a INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUSJECT AND SHUULD SE REQUESTED
~ . FROM TP/TTLESe

ee MINTER, HELEN

201-0289246 200-€94~-293/04
SEX F D39- 32108

1a net 74

31

P2

DISCUSSED QUESTION GF CHIL AND USA Gov4
INVOLVEMENT

DATE 22 NOV 74 ae 09210285

E2-IMPDET.CL.BY 054979... -



bie dee ate ial dees

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT NF THIS 201
DOSSTER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL OD FILE.
PERSONS PE®FORMING NAME TRACES APF CAUTIONED THAT THE ONCU=
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SURJECT AND SHOULO BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FELES«

WINTER, HELEN

Beane 201-0289246 201-0006887
panes SEX F é : DAD-78208
06 SEP 74
CIT usa FRI

SCHEDULED TO DEPART FR NY O1 MAY 74 OFSTINED
FOR MOSCOW VIA AEROFLOT TOGETHER WITH FERN
AND HEN®Y WINSTON /201-0006887/ AND JA¥ES
JACKSON /201-0011793/

DATE 04 NOV 74 09199669



SECRET

“PO DOCUMENT ExTRACT

ena i: THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSTER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TPACES ARE CAUTIUNED THAT THE OCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT #AS PREPARED CONTAINS ADOTTIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

“WINTER, HELEN

_..201-0289246 2 201-0133419 uae
= = SEX F 0B0-41515
. . 10 OCT 74
ite ae FBI

OBSERVED ENTERING PREMISES OF POLD UN MISSTON



UXCREF. SHEET S+€-C-R-E-T DATE 26/10/74

— SY434-NUHBER | ONC, DATE 200. FILES
08d -80203 26 SEP 74 201-0006887

“THE ABOVE DOCUMENT(S) ARE C@0SS REFERENCED
TO THE 201 FILE CLTED UNDER LEFT MARGIN,

FOR INFURMATION CONCERNING THE LOCATIUN OF
THE FILE CONTAINING THE RECORD COPY DOCUMENT,
CALL FILES SECTIIN, EXTENSICN 4127.



FBI document

10 May 1974 (NY)

Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100~-423449

FBI document

18 July 1974 (NY)

Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449

FBI document
15 May 1974 (NY)

Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449

FBY document

19 Nov. 1973 (NY)

Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449

FBI docunent

22 Aug. 1973 (NY)

Subject: Tour of Union Of Soviet Socialist Republics by
Representatives of Central Committee, Comaunist Party, USA,
duly 13 - Aug. 12, 1973



FBI document

30 March 1973 (NY)

Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufgl 100-423449

FBI document

. 23 March 1973 (NY)

Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449

FBI document

10 January 1973 (NY) :

Subject: Gus Hall, aka/ Helen Mary Winter, aka
Bufiles: 61-8077 and 100-433449

FBI -document

20 December 1972

Subject: Gus Hall, aka; Helen Mary Winter,. aka
Bufile: 61-8077 and 100-0423499

FBI document

15 June 1972 (NY)
Subject: Helen Winter
Bufile: 100-423449



ET
Filled In)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
Oe. SyMOOL 6 AO. DATE OF 00.

FILE CLASSIFICATION GF ALCORD COPY.

fooe. suszect

‘SOURCE INFORMATION
SOURCE cavPTONYH Date OF INFO.

EVALUATION

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Ale cite doc. distribution, Di Wer, ete. ah

ee eee
narer FELEN s

see pbene UCl-UC4n 124

Six F Cou ? ved -21C51

Cl FEB 72

cit ? Fal
occ ? :
MET wITk JIM BEYNON, CANACAy NOV 2s

R 71202281340

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File-No.—In-Which-This
Form Is To Be Filed.

‘Suestet OF 201 (Last, Firet, Middle)

Uae)



SECRET

Cinen Fb tek tiny

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

Es
RI FILE NO,

‘3- BisrATEW OR SOURCE O2C, SyuBOL WO. [4 DATE

Fo ouRCe Cave Tonal

DATE OF INFO. [@. EVALUATION

iar orssewieateo tw ra. eave

Pearce

Dave PROCESSES

WAN SF CAMED YO
FILE NO:

WINTER, HELEN

201-289246 200-004-324

SEX M DOB ? DBD ~04464
O02 FEB 71

cit? FRI

nec ?

CHALRMAN OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY UNITED
SUF AMERICA LITERATUR COMMESSTUN
VELA TO ATTENDED THE TV PARTY CUNGRLSS

R 7102160350

SECRET



ECRET
(Phen Filled tay

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

‘SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT TECCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

To oTsPATEN OW SOURCE BOG, SvUBDL RO. [ar DATE

TT FUREL CVPTOWTN]O. DATE OF IMFO. [8 EVALUATION

Jor oars rRocesseo ior oTseEwTNATED Tw ri Bare
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

1a, YRansrCRatD VO
FILE HO.

fre. chose eercanco To Tis Fite

PERTINCNT iMFORMAT ION

pierre 200-004-324

SEX F DOB ? DBD -05593
16 FEB 71

cit? Fer

occ 7?

HAD DEPARTED USA 21 JAN 71 FOR VENEZUELA TO

ATTEND THE IV PARTY CONGRESS AS DELEGATES OF

cP USA

R 7103030740



FBI Doc.

17 Sept. 1970 (Wash.) ‘i .
RE;Ccmmunist Party, USA Contacts with Communist Parties of
Venezuela, Colombia, and Peru

(NOFORN, NO DISSEM ABROAD)

DBC-93754

FBI Doc.

14 May 1970 (Wash.) .

RE: Comtacts Between Communist Party, USA and Communist Party
of Venezuela 1

DBC 82704

FBI Doc.

24 June 198669 (NY)
RE: Helen Winter
Bufile: 100-423449)
DBC 54933

FBI doc.

20 May 1969 (NY)
RE: Heler. Winter
Bufile : 100-423449
DSC 52075

BRI Séoek

oo



@

FBI doc.

10 Jan. 69 #£NY)

RE: Carl Winter, Helen Winter
DBC 39844


SECRE
(oon Fal ded boy

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBSET OF _BOCEENT ‘DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

a
| PL FILE #0,
WSs aTGw OW SOURCE BOE. aveROL Be. Ie oat

barony ne Dave OF tare. auntie

PERTINENT NF ORWAT JON

WINTER, HELEN

201-289246 201-760935

SEX F 000 7 DAC =41305
27 JAN 69

cit? Fal

, ace 2

HAD RETURNED FROM A TRIP AND ARRIVED FOR

WORK AT COMMUNIST PARTY, UNITED STATES OF

AMERICA /CP¢ USA/ HEADQUARTERS ON JAN 27

69

R 6902051315



SECRET

Canen Filled toy

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AKD CROSS REFERENCE

‘Sue sect OF pOCuENT. E EZCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

FILE NO,

[So OISFATEN Om Sauce DOC. sYwBDL nO.

wEC wee tone
ABATE Pave ante — |isT ws asiuinanio ae

COC TLE ROT IOW

REIT INCRE INFORMATION.

WINTER, HELIN

201-2897466 201-752914

SPX F DOK 2 ONC -41307
24 JAN 69

cir? FRE

occ 7 BS

SEC ORGANIZATIUN CUMMISSIUN, CP, USA.

MAR NATIONAL COMMETIFE, CP USA ON TRIP

7 DEC 68 TO CONNECTICUT W/HUSBAND CARL

WINTER /201-760835/, 8B. 4. OREKHOV

4201-752914/ AND WIFE GALINA SERGEYEVNA ~

R 6902061627



PURTINENT (MFCHMATION

WINTER, HELEN

201=289246 201-752914
SEX H LOB ? Dee ~39101
: 26 DEC 68
CIT USA FBI

2
SECRETARY OF THE ORGANIZATION COMMISSION,
CPUSA, ALSO A MAR OF THE NATIONAL COMMIT
TEE, CPUSA
IN CONTACT WITH BORIS Ms OREKHOV, 201-752914

R $901141020

FILE IN 201-2L22 46

te. See i Som
ammenm ©] [| 11
: 7 SECRET aes oe

ete ansin deat eo



“ FBI doc

FBI doc.

18 April 1967 (Wash.)
RE: Helen Mary Wihter
BUfile: (SC) 100-423449
DBB 77957

FBI doc.

8 Nov. 1960

RE: Helen Mary Winter
DBF 62099

FBI doc.

26 July 1967 (NY)

RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
GBB 88376

FBI doc.

2 June 1967 (NY)

RE; Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 81991

FBI doc.
B 23 May 1967 (Seattle)
RE: :Helen Mary Winter

Bufile: s6k&kad Field Office 100-17363
DBB 81995

Fer doc.

27 April 1967 (NY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 190-423449
DBB 78966

FBI doc.

18 April 1967 (KY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 78724

18 Jan. 1967 (NY)

RE? Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77690

{
i
t



SECRET * : 4

(foe Piltet te

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND’ CROSS REFERENCE

‘Suesecy oF BcCoaNT ~ DOORN “DENTIFICATION

‘Solece ae. vaRD wo. Ye

Tome tial Gare oo tare. [oo EwaLvaTION

[eo bate vascntnee

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

PERTINENT JF OPUAT 194

WIATERs FELER

201-265246 160-CG4-12k

SUX F Coa ? Cae ~51492
24 JUN 66

CIT usa Fal

ce 7 .

© USA, KEW YLRK, KEW YORK

CCPRUNIST PARTY FUACTICAARY BMG RCRKS IN

AATICAAL CFFICEs Rem YLRKs New YORK.

R eecTLecigT

FILE IN 201-.2222-4¢



(aS es -

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AMD CROSS REFERENCE
Se secT oF boc UME NT

— CHU NI _IDEMTIFICATION

REF ILE HO.

WINTER, HELEN ©
201-289246 201-762338
SEx  0OB ? 03B -51958

20 JUN 66
CIT USA FRE
Occ CP OOFFICEAL e2
< USA
ELECTEG TC NATL CCM CPUSA DEC 59 IN
CHARGE OF CP SCHOOL IN BARXIST TRAINING
IN NEW YGRI CITY» HAR 666

R 6607122280

FILE In 201.28 24 6

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.



FBI coc.
6 July 1966 (Seattle)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Field office file: sE
DBB 77913

FBI doc
21 Jan. 1966 (ny) c
RE; Helen Mary Winter

Bufile: 190-423449
DBB 77914

FBI doc.

26 Oct. 1965 (NY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-223449
DEB 77915

)

FBI doc.

30 July 1965 (NY)

RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77916

FBI doc.

5 May 1965 (NY)

RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77917

FBI doc.

12 Feb. 1965 (NY)

RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77918

FBI doc.
20 Nov. 1964 (Detroit)

RE: Helen Mary Winter, nee Wagenknecht

Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77919

100-17363



5 FBI dor.

: 20 August 1964 (Detroit)

t RE: Helen Mary Winter ©
Bufile: 100-423449. -
DBE 77920

FBI do

25 Feb. 1964 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77921

FBI doc.

17 May 1962 (Detroit)

RE: Comgress of Canadian Womey,Information Concerning
DBA 10048



SECRE
~ (Been Falled tn) von,

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SuBIECT OF BOCOANT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

Es -
RI FILE NO. | 205 ook {236 gh

‘3. BISPATCH O® SOURCE OOC. SywAOI NO. E bate
TRA -29197 22 APR 63

7 so0Ret arene GATE OF tno. [o. EVALUATION

THE UNITED STATES FESTIVAL COMMIT:
INCCKPORAED (EIGHTH WOFLD YOUTH FESPIVA

So ANALYST (oo oaTe weoceaste hos brsstwiwave Fr bare

DOCUVENT DISPOSITION
Te. GROSS REFERED TO Tis FILE 1a. TRANSFERRED TO
201-2852h6, meee no
PERTINENT _INFORWAT ION

HONOR OF THEIR DAUGHTER,
FESTIVAL.
DE Y-3 ADVISED ON MARCH 16, 1963, THAT CARL TRR WAS & 'é CHAIFMAN OF
TE T-1, ON MARCH 20, 1963 CHAT HELEN KINTER WAS CURRENT MEMBER OF THE
oes CLUB OF THE MOCP,

E Pe2 SUATED THAT AT THE OFENHCUSE MICHELE WINCER GAVE A TALK AND TOLD OF VISITING
SOCTALIET P CIUIRS, SCHOOLS DOF: HOUSING, AND TRANCPOF TATION. SHE TOLD OF

FLAG AND THE

FEL

COUNTRIES FROM WI “4 CAFRIED YER LITERATURE Ii THE BOTTOM OF
HER BAG, WHICH HAD A SHCULD=! SAID THIS WAY SHE HAS NO ‘TROUBLE WITH
CUSTOMS AND IMPORT AUTHORTTTES IN THE DIFFERENT COUNTRIES

vat Previous eoeteons. SECRET

seh patna rg SARTRE



FBI doc.

30 hov. 1961 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBF 96370

FBI doc. :
24 Aug. 1961 ‘(Detroit)
RE: @elen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
BBB 77922

FBI doc.

21 June 1961 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBF 81488

BEE S&EGG SK


SECRE
(then Frided Iny

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF bacumeNT

MICHELE ALLISON WINTER “a Fite no.

3. BISPATEN O¥ SURCE DOC. SYMBOL WO. oate

: DBA -01530 APR 61.

FT" SouRce Cave towva[e. O4TE OF imro. [d- EvaLUATiON

Te: pate PRocesseo e- Bissiuiwaves ow fir. care

BOCUMENT GISPOSITION

ao Choe TeFeRRED To Ts PE is. taacartente Vo
201-269246 pide
FE

PERTINENT JNFORVAT ION

WINTER, HELEN (201-289246)

SUBJ. WAS BORN 6/25/24. AT LOS ANGELES, CALIF., RESIDES AT 9556 BURNETIS, DETROIT.
SUBJ.'S PARENTS ARE CARL AND HELEN WINTER, BOTH MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL COMATIEE.
cP, USA. THFOFMAM? ADVISED DURING L/EL, THAT SUB. IS NOT A MEMBER OF TEE CP.
SUBJ, WAS REPORTED AS AN ASSOCIATE EDITOR OF "NEW HORIZONS", SUBJ, ATTENDED
CLASSES: IN MARKISM INSTRUCTED BY CP MEMBERS, SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES SET FORTH.
COHFITEATIAL INFORMANTS CONTACTED DURING 4/61, COULD FURNISH NO ‘DITIONAL
SUSVERSIVE INFORMATION, SUBJ. IS A FRESHMAN AT WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY,

DETROI?.

SECRET

cies eset emai aetna inn

heath she dCTP ORES


FBI doc.
24 Jan. 1961 (Detroit
RE: Helen Mary Winter, nee Wagenknecht, et al.
DBF 67557

FBI doc.

6 Sept. 1960 (Detroit
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77923

FBI doc.

3 June 1960 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-8423449
DBRERERRé DBB 77924



PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

SECRET

Filled I9)

Consult the 201 Contcol Systen Reference
Tetina thie form. Fo

wanvel

rust be typed or

novice
bare TE -
TO? prp/2cl Section pit : cree wee
prp/2 Wagga
inoaw Ke roe
FROM: ’ i panto piesa e
aoe 3" orancranl TT Peewantst CnaRGe
z To TXELUDE TaOF wane Fou wAcMINe LIST _T? nectne ;
Eager Po4 foe 20 3 an =
GtSGter. ‘oo not ence 7 ve =
Sk crn a Saas vaio PRE
Br 201 nO ise pie aPine yan Came ieae
Bates ceettte ~ rere POTTS)
(uiddle) :
a Paeet =
Te owaMe (LORE) K : : a 7 my TE rey [
pie ceectt ws VARIATIONS tN 810. DATA
cs
caedFaret) SCID sama

7d eed

DATE of gia] 12. COUNTRY OF BIRTH

13. €1Ty/ Toa CF adRTH ee

TAZEASHIP.

16. AFFHLtATION cove] 17
PB PATTER’ CKLY

ADDITIONAL CODES + PB PATTERN ONLY

20. OccuPATICN/POSITION (Clear text)

_ Bi. oce/Pos A

ae oe 0 @ @ ww ee Wve ree
A Sana | aca Ket Veil cecal neues (ete Eetuaa
caGanTiaTon, OF GROG? TSFILIATION (eles? text) We. oncvenaur care
aeviati om

22. ACTION DESK

eee

23. cove * [a4. stconpany orsK

25. cone

76. eRYPTONTH, 7

27. PSEUDONYM

COMMENTS

ok

Raha Ge

685

