# 104-10071-10202

## Page 1

1104-10071-10202

жсІШнO

DISPATCH

3.E CRB.T

chief,

wonton Meadophoss Divicion

Doputy Chios, Wootern Hemlophere/SA

Chiof of Station, INWAVE

aas parational IMPALM

0317

Action Required: Commenta Re Paragraph 16. *

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Rafarence: UFGA-17210

DO NOI ReprOduCE

During the laot yoor, Jipall has bacone deeply

involved in

Hastian ostlo aotivities and has davelopad a nundor os pourcad regular

roporting on thio targot.

In many inetancos JMPALM assote aro roport-

ing on oach othor, a healthy proceas in torme of confiming roporta

and avaluating the accuracy and raliability of IMPALM agont assoto.

JMPALM reporting on the Haitian scene has boon voluminous.

purpose of this diopatch io nor to raviow the quantity of reporta

submittod or oporational cablas gont during tho year, nor to appraise

the valuo of JHiPALM in torma of monitorine cuilo activities: it la

boing forwarded to Hoadquasiorg in order to roviow paat and prosent

oporationa of JMPALM againot Haiti and will reviow a number of footorn

affooting Haitian exilos in Miami and their efforte to obtain support

fron Cuban exilo groups in Miand and New York.

201-303454 CIT HANTi AVIRGIN ISLANDS Ra

BACKGROUND

subj a invasion plans againat gornt of Haiti

SO IMPALM opoRation at the WAVL Station began approxinatoly ono

ago with the recruitnont of several persons who appearad to bo

in posiciona to proyide oparational and intolligance information

concoring Hastion prilo polities and the Haition political situation:

othare did not have innadiate accena but appeared to have an entroo

into tho Haitian orila fiold and offared sufficient potontaad to

parmit tha JMPALM CaDO Officor (Robart S. HUNKELER) to concludo that

they could Da aipociod to nova into areas of significant

importance

at a labor dato.

Analex X

In AuguO: 1963 tho JMPALM Caoo Officor rocoivod information

CIcmont OBENOIT, ond-time Consul General to tha Bahana Iolando, was in

Naconu and proparing an exile invasion force to topple DUVALIER.

Accordingly, tho JMPALM Caco Officer flow to the Bahama Islande on

(Continued)

36-9-6

Attachnont:

Identity

attached in Rio/AN 7:

CATI TIFE

10

Aug. 1964

CAra DERRATCKED

AUS 18 BEA:

Diotribution:

" CHOSE REFERENCE TO

COPY-----

DISPATCH STILECI AND MUAEL

- C/WHD sa/Attch USC,

• DC/WH/SA w/Attch USC

UFGA-17300

2ce plus citth ment

GUNSAGSES

OURATERO FILE RAISEA

S

T

200-120-63

8654

roma

APERTALIE.

PARn

-DEDD

---

## Page 2

14-00000

PRATEE

SECRET

UFGA- 27300

coveral oceanions and conduatod en invoorigation of tha Deloit

Dovesont and intosvioned numorous porsong when BENOIT oldinod as hio

Coaplato docaila of HuNeLER'o inventigationa vera roporter

to Headquarters union paralitod the conclusion that DENOIT was an

optiniatio droonor to had 116:20 nora in torma of andess than the

ability to roosuit naw nan povorcolladtion cona outtora and runal

workora illogally poattorod throughout tha bahana Iolanda. (BENOIT

cuboequantly was cuated fren the Bahona Iolande and soadded in Niani

for approsinataly ali nonths until June 1964 whon he moved to the

American Virgin Ioland of St. Crois where ha plannad to teach fronon. y

¿a Auguot 3083(UOAMER-6, a Cuban national, was intoruloned by

tho JMPALM COOO 0881003 in 0rd08

to soviow his paat cocoolation with

tha DUVALIER ROgUnO.

Latos IMPALs, Sollening a load sado avastato

of tho Malcion Consulato at Micai.

In fabruary 1904 bruciD appoarad in

Starcad a ahain of ovonto thiah suboaquently involved a sunba evilsd-

IMPALM OCOOTO OZUOAMBER-G, FOLLOWING IMPAL INSCrUAtIONO

gainod hio confidence, and waaloubsequently appointod by EVLUCID-1 ao

the Military Commandor dos all Elucide! foreos wnich, although fow

in nuabor, wore of ousizoiont import to varrant close monitoring by

JMPALM o2 Tho dignificance of the appointuant, however, was that it

gavO UOAMBER-6 an intinato espooure to EVLUCIDal and tha Latter'o

chat EvileId-l ingiatod Onleontasting Cuban front groupain ordor to

-mongy to help (EVLUCID 1r

Contact mado by EVLUCID-d includod potil

anillas who lava bostink, to leave caatro-land.

To It wagovidont that neither UOAMBER-6 nor (UDAMBER-& wao abio

to diorogand EVLUCYD-l'o dosiro to neet with the BABUn crouD.

ACCOrO

ingly, (UOAMBER-3, a longtime friond of the BABUN group, was inatrusted

by Jean to atrengthon hio malationahip with the BABUN

group on the

protost oi uoing the group ao a moana to obtain tha raloesa o

covoral friondo of UOAMDERo3 in Cuba.

Ho would thug ba placed in a

poastion to nonitor tha DALUN group in thair dosdingo with evucIo]

and hiO fOLlOVara •2UOMIDER-2, a Cuban national and PrincipallAgent

for UNPAli, in tha montino ouccoaded in obtaining part tina esplo

nent with the BABUN prouD and thug bocano anaso of a numbar of BABul

opita of rappated offoato bylEcho (UdAMBERo to discouraga

cupport to ELUCID-1, In date Juno 2964 EVLUCIDal hold bio firat

funda to pupport EVLUCID-1.

9. _ In the noantir

1 Loula

DEJOIE/arved In Kram and Goon mi

---

## Page 3

14-00000

OPERANERE USEONES

commut saw men ponde en can costa co

,5U323

coo idegally enattored throughout the Lahana Tolanda,

CELICIT

subacquently vas cunted from tho Bahona Iolando and rooided in lland

fer approsinatoly nii nontho unise June 1904 wach he noved to tag

• Amorioan Virgin Island of 38 Cross whoro ha planned to coaon Fronah. l

In AUGUO: 20G3 LOANDER-O, a Cuban national, was intarvaciod by

tHO INPAL CaCO Officon in OndOn tO saViow hio paot ancociatIC wat

Cho DUVALIER FOginO.

LatOr UNPALM, FOlLONng a Lead Dada crassabio

DY CHO KUJUMP OILICO In MIGNS, FOOFLICOS WONDER-O, O POPRIE nOtiON

sno lator dovoloped a cloco relationonip

© with UOAMBER-20, On 01810%0

of the Haltion Consulato at Miami.

DeS: SHiPPING MAGCATE RE

in Fobruary 1904 EVLuciDe

Panic can tattent area ano

startod a chain

o avento whieh mubaequenty invosved a nunbor of

IMPALM DODOTE. LUCANDER-G, FOSLOWINg IMPALM inOtrUetiona 2mIE LEVLUCID-

gasnod his confidence, and

manipubsequently appointed by EVLUCiD! as

the Military Commander for all EVLuCiDel forced wich, although few

in nuabor, word of pufficiont import to warrant clooo

conitoring by

IMPAlM orTho Dignificanco of the appointmont, however, wao that it

EAVe UOARBEROE an intimato esposure to EVLucidal and tha lattor

anDitions,

contagto, plans and objoctive.

-During the montha of May

and Juno 19643-WOAMBER-8 was

2a200 instrueted to make contaot with

OZEVLUCID 1 in ordos to monitor UOAMDER-6 infornation ao a cross-check

obtain tanancial oupport, equipment one

nonay to holy EVLUCID-1 in

Westhrowing DUVENIER.

Contaet made bylEVLUCIDel includod Tcofilo

cuban onipping nagnatoo uno have baor

whooling and doaling with covoral Dominican Gonorald, for the purpose

of bringing about a robotiemont progran of cuban prisonero in Cuba

2201-

02It waskovidant that neithor UOADER-6 nor UOAMBER-O wao ablo

to dioragard EvLuCiD-llo deolro to naotith tho bAbUN group.

inaly, UOAMDER-3, a longotino friond of tho DADUN group, was inotruote

Dy JAPAlil to ctrongthon

hio rolationahip with tho lADuN group on tha

protost of uoing thongroup do a moana to obtain tho roloado of

covoral friondo of CUOMNBER-3 in Cuba. He would thuo ba picood in a

positica to conitor the BAbUN group in thoir doalingo with (EVLUCID-1

and hio fOlLowars OLUOAMBER-?, a Cuban national end Principal ngont

SOS IMPARSIO

in tho meantino succooded in obtaining part-tino employ-

nent with tho bABUN group and thuerbocano glazo of a numbar of BABUl

Joalo includina BABUN'o dooire to cupport (EVLUCID»1.

In°?

opito of ropaatod efforto bycho VOAMBERo to diocounago

oupport to ELUCIDal, in late June 2964 EVLUCIlos hoLd hao arat

motảng nủth ELICCO GOMEZ and obrained from GOMEL a

promino to obtain

funde to support EVLUCID-1.

201-340483 CITSHANTI OFEIRIDAA

9. o2In tho meantimi

with EULUCIDOL, DEJOIE

made a pact with EvLucidol and agrood to pledge

hão cupport, such do it was, to EVLuCIDed'& attengto to unseat

DUVALIER in oschango for a promico by EVLUCIDOL tO COOLEt DEVOLE In

the lattor'o offorte to becong the Prosident of Haiti following the

ousting of

DUVALIaR.

10. In midoudly NOAMDER-B roported

that GOME had welched on his

carlior comastmont to provide funde for EVLUCID-d.

It was aloo in

associate

Of DEJOlE and a

Сеіна

AMIAMI, FLORIDA ECC

Punctin

how upent

SECRET

wit!

---

## Page 4

14-00000

NTERATION C7

Do 1862

SECRET

UFGA-17900

At thio sooting

pa sa pint to co a con tarter cores

agreed to

in order to obtain anti-Cootro oparationomancs in Haiti following

Sha hopadolor dOiPall of DuVALIER.

what Evaderded die, not know

a that tho DABUl group promod to obtain sundo trendedatoe

ASPERRER Rojao, a waldoknown CuDan gunrunnar uno had boos

Invosued in a moat cockata, and une would probably demand a

alcanso for canbling and contrabana

1 cotivledoo in exchango for

Mio cupport of EvLucided.

201-42658

during

tho wookoond of & Auquat, GoMez Foucalod that ho would

Da dealing with thO HASFERRER groupin connoction with this support.

04(EVLUCID-l'o inmodiato sonation, aftor loaring that a principas

COntriDUtOr tO the EVLUCIlOS CaUDO vaO tO Da MASFERRER, Wa0 tO

Draai off rajacions with tha DADUN group. According to

02 VOAMBER-D, howavor Evrucided did not broak with the basur Dodge

becauso of the rocomandationg nade by loonsity, a tage

position to taka 18 leantity 1o a headquartoro cocas.

According

EO (UOAMBER-GOEVLUCID-1 euboquently dacidad to brasis rolationg

With tha BABUN group but simply haajnor adviood GOHEZ of thio

declaion.

At this seating, comes to enpooting to obtain rundo

from MASFERRER and the con of 0.6.

"BRANT, (laition toatilo

manufootunar whoad oon lo roportedly in law Yonk.)

GOMEZ plans

to viait both MASFERRER and bRANt during tha cocond moci os

Auguot, aftor union ho plans so vial janaica, Hasti and cho

Deainican Ropubado woro ha hopos to obtain authority fron the

Doninican hiorarony to permit the inton group to transport

laition foroos

fron Dominican territory to Hasta.

LOUIS DEVOTE

CiTIENTi QUAiTi DIE: TEXTILE MFG. Bat's cor

a Mani roprosontativa of Dosinican Presidentdol coatendor

of fundo and non povas for uoo by LaJoib againat tha lastson

@sotator.

DavorE cabooquently viaited lou Yost end, aftor to

bootingo with BaLAtusk, roturned to liams and raported t

had not boon cueddooful in obtainingsAlAduero support

thon doparted for santo Domingo unoss he hoped to cotivata

both EVLUCIDal and DEJOIE forcas in the DUVALIeR struggle.

PRESENT SITUATION AND FURUNE PLANS

201-355250

14. Tha principal sigus hena elliou of Halian ez11o

activition in liani do ecila GULUCIDo, uho continues to naintain

cosophone contaot with borald Largeland other neabars of the

o CLUCIDel group in New York.

Accerdina to a ropore outantrea

Dy DOAMBER-O in late July 1964. EVLUCIDol, through LaRes,

maintains contaet with Father Jean Baotiate GEORGES, advivor to

---

## Page 5

14-00000

de this costing

Sha hopadocs doinfall of DUVALIER.

EvLucidol did, not know

Anion

SLOGACO fOr ECADLIng Ind contraband cor vition in aschange tos

1301-4266% CiRCUSA 445 Re: cu

tho sookoond of & August, GoNez rovcaled that ho would

Lo/ Hai

bo donking with the MASFERRER groupin connection with thie support.

02 EVLUCID-l'o immoddatoronation, after loarning that a principal

contributos to the lEVLUCID-? cause was to Do MASFERRER, tao tO

bazak off rolationa

wath the BABUN group. According to

•LUOANDER-O, hOWOVEL EVLUCIDOL die nOt brOa WEN tha LADUN BLedge

becauda of the socommandationg nado by Idontty, a Berge

position to takout Icantity lo a loadquartoro ascot.

According

OZEO (UDAMBER-6, EVLUCIDOl subooquently docided to broal rolations

with tie BABUN group but simply haopnot adviood GOMEZ Of this

docioion.

the Min M spot o i can

¿rom MASFERRER and tho son of 0.G.

OBRANT (Rostian toatado

manufacturor whood con do roportedly in New Yogi CoMe plans

to Violt boEn MASPERRER and DRANT during tho socond took of

Äuguot, aftor chich ho plans to viair Sanades, Hagei and the

Deainican Ropublic whose he hoped to obtain authority fron the

Dominican niorarchy to parait the BaluN group to transport

¡Maicion foroos fron Balnican torritory to Haiti.

LOUIS DEJOIE

EITHOLT AURiTi DEC: TEXTILE MFG Baby's con

is vi New Tine, and ireportedly active on sumportine

POAM

Đ.00

140)

mUtUal cupport caine: DUVALIER. DEJOIE ALDO LOE VICH UOANDER-3.

a Micni rapsocontative of Doninican Presidontiol contendor

Joaquin DALAGUER, end requestod OUpport fron LALASUER in torme

of fundo end son povor for uoa by DEJOE egainst tho Laitian

dietates.

DEVOLE cubooquently vioited Nou York end, often two

cootingo with

DALAGUER, FOCURRORItO MiGRi ond roporEcO to

OUOAMIDEROS ONE EULACIDOL CUNO COId LUCANDER-O) that NO (DEJOIE)

hed not boon cuccoooful in obtaining BALAGUER'O CUpPORt.

Ho

then dopartad for Santo Domingo whore he hoped to ectivato

both EVLUCID I na DEJOIE LOrcos in tho DUVALIER CEraggle•

PRESENT SXTUATION AND FUTURE- PT ANS

201-355250

24. The princical fian ena miason os laidian callo

aotivitivo in Miani io exili CULUCIDol sno continuos to maintain

oztelophone contaot with Gerald LARGE and othor ncabars or the

(ELUCIDaL group in Now

According to a roport submittod

advibor to

FARH, Mo, according to UOANDERS, hao mado a pact

with Father

Gennis the on the lin sce aroun

"Haitian

Poncong: OzlUOAMBER-6 reported on 2 Auguar that ho hao

been approached by la loader of the Cuban Rebol Aray who 1s

attempting to work out a plull of support to EVLUCID-1.

4201-355749

VOR PREVIOUO EDITION. •

CLASSIFICATICA

SECRET

PAOL NO.

3.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINATION

CORIN INdR

SECRET

UFGA-17300

160

not eppear to be invoivod in Haition onsio aotivitioo in Miani.

According to LUOANDER-0, howovor, the Cuban orade erouD or

coMme and DAbUN anticipatoa giving cupport to livaucile aschoug

they have bean invited to oupport Father dioneland tho

PRIGAUD Brothere, a move which presumably might attract other

Haitian outlo loadors to the Miani area.

Boeauce the desiro by Haition exilos to obtain

support for invaden decivities to Haji 10 no errong, and

bocaudo some Cuban exilo groups are uncorupulous and aro

financially prepared to support a cause which could lotor be

uned for contraband gambling activition in Haiti, JMPAL

considers the posalbility of concreto aupport by ouch

undesirably groupe as Rolando MASFERRER Rojao to be counter to

our intereste

JMPALM has not proposed financial assitance

to any anti-DUVALIER group, nor are we recommending a couree

of aotion which would bring about a soppling of DUVALIER

without sufficiont preparation to control the aftermath and

chaos which would probably follow a Haitian insurrection.

JMPALM requeate that Headquarterg advine the WAV:

stanion of information obtained through Heddquarters sourced

rolating to exile activition in this area.

the Identitios of Headquartora soots as well as information

furnished by them concerning EVLUCIDol and other onile person-

alition affecting our operations at uMVAVE.

Operational

information of thie nature would, in the opinion of the

JMPALM Case Officer, serve as a cross check on the affoctiveness

of JMPALM agents and in many areas avoid duplication of effort,

and add to the total security of the operation.

undates

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

---

## Page 7

14-00000

1613 305111

201-205014

Витав, од на зісту вітава

S/c ach to UFGA: 17300

18 ай 64

369-601

SECRET

1-BEST DITANTOL

FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

---

