# 104-10105-10271

## Page 1

104-10105-10271

UNCLASSiFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Seymour R.

Bolten

E 14

TO: (Officer designation, room number, end

building)

1.

Mr.

OGC

John Morrison

7

D 01

2.

NAL

* ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIC

STIAL

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

EXTENSION

7520

NO.

DATE

19 September 1974

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment lo show from whom

lo whom. Drew a line across column after each comment!

RECEIVED

Taket

Attached is an ad-

vanced informal copy of our

proposed security deletions

and revisions of the Hunt

galley proof. Please note

that this list has not yet

been reviewed by MI. Blee

and is, therefore, still

subject to change.

2. The DDO panel that

reviewed the Hunt manuscript

has designated items, numbered

.21, 24 and 25, as

"hard core,

12, 14, 19% by which we mean

that the Agency should insist

on their deletion or revision

and be prepared to obtain an

injunction and engage in

litigation should Hunt refuse

to cooperate.

saguang

Seymour R. Bolten

SAB/ DDO

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE RENOUS

EDITIONS

rod

2A62 1993

CIA HISTUCACAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SECRET

EX CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

C/0

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

Manuscript and Galley Proof of Undercover:

Memoirs of an American Agent by E. Howard Hunt

NOTES: A.

B.

Pages. and lines underlined

and appearing at the begin-

ning of the items below

refer to the galley proof.

Corresponding page and line

listings as

they appear in

the manuscript are provided

in brackets

at the end of

each item.

fasT. line, 6 from botton of page; the name

Pretired under cover and his

past

relationship should not be exposed. It is also recommended

removed from to mean senten contes John chardson alane.

removed from the same sentence containing Mr.

(Page 96, line 17.)

2.

Page 59, line 38 beginning with "However" and ending

2 with "milieu". Rutherford T.

"Pinky" Walsh

on page done 2 ich ins deA elationship should not ba,

exposed. His assignment in

(Item 4 below) is potentially

an additionally damaging blow to liaison relationships. (Page

100, lines 10-14.)

CONFIDENTIAL

C/l

---

## Page 3

NUIINLANL

3. Page 63, line 21; the name

"Frank Holcomb"

Mr. Holcomb retired under cover and bis past relationship

with the CIA should not be exposed. It is additionally

recommended that the entire paragraph wherein Mr. Holcomb's

name appears (lines 21-24) should be deleted because it ac-

knowledges CIA operations in support of ánti-communist political

operations in Italy. (page 105, lines 18-21.)

4. Page 63, line 30 beginning with. "By" and ending with

"arrangement" on line 33, page 63.

It is recommended that this

passage be deleted since its inclusion not only is not pertinent

to the nard tive at ted necess to taain with the

and is an implied insult to the

Pliaison services.

(page I06, lines 4-7.)

5. Page 66 beginning with "Finis" on line 24 and ending

with "world" on line 27.

This passage describes a specific CIA

operation which resulted in the production and distribution of.

an animated cartoon based on George Orwell's Animal Farm.

(Page 111, lines 6-9.)

Tho i hope de to a deny on the pree in ne

still exists

on various currently classified documents.

(page 114, line 23.)

Page 71, beginning with "Spanish" on line 28 and ending

with "America" on line 20, page 72, and including the footnotes

on pages 71 and 72.

This passare should be deleted because it

24

describes the Agency's role in

]"E1 Campesino's" book, Life and Death in the USSR.

(pages 120 [lines 4-20, including footnote] - 12I [lines 1-16,

including footnote. 1)

Page 72 beginning with "Eudocia" on line 21 and ending

with "Scribner's" on line 32.

This should be deleted hecause y

it describes the Agency's Tole in the translation,

Tof Eudocio Ravines' book, The Yenan Way. It

also describes William Buckley's role in that operation as a

CIA officer. (Page 121, lines 17-23 and page 122, lines 1-6.)

9.

Page 73 beginning with "Mexican" on line 5 through

"Rivera" on line 8.

This should be deleted because it not only

describes sources and methods but also identifies a specific

CIA operation. (Page 122, lines 19-21 and page 123, line 1.)

5 age net, is but

rantineans

C/2

Y/mc

---

## Page 4

CU HUENHAL

Page 73 beginning with "Communism" on line 14 and

ending with "reputation" on line 15.

This passage could serve

to identity a former asset in Mexico who is still living. (Page

123, lines 7-8.)

11.

Page 73 beginning with "cover" on line 17 through

"legend" on line 19.

This should be deleted because it identifies..

a CIA-sponsored cover arrangement in Bangkok. rurthermore, thi

particular type of cover

the movie industry, has figured in

earlier unfavorable publicity to CIA in other Southeast Asian

countries and thus serves to further render suspect the use of

such cover in still other areas. (Page 123, lines 10-12.)

Page 73 beginning with "planned" on line 22 through

"authentic" on lineS of page 14 and including the footnote on

page 74.

This should be deleted because it describes,a specific

operation involving the forgery of a page of thel

and also includes descriptions of sources and methods. (Page 123,

lines 15-23 and all of page 124 including footnote-)

Page 77 beginning with "technical" on line 19 through

"station" on line 21.

This should be deleted because it describes

authenticates a CIA operation. (Page 131, lines 2-4:)

Page 80 beginning with "surreptitious-entry" on line 9

through "Embassy" on

line 12:

page 82.

This should be deleted

because it describes

a specific, sensitive operation as well assy

sensitive sources and methods including thel

(Page 136, line 3 through page 139, line 20.)

Page 86 beginning with "Greek" on line 18 through

"countries" on line 20.

This should be deleted because it

identifies a specific operation and the foreign assets involved

in its support. (Page 147, lines 6-8.):

16. Page 95 beginning with "quasi-military" on line 11

through "East"

on line 16.

This should be deleted because it

describes various cover and support facilities üsed in Far East

Asian countries. (Page 163, lines 6-11.)

17. Page 95 beginning with "Hong Kong" on line 16 through

"Branch" on line 19.

This should be deleted because it describes

an operation conducted!

against mainland China and as such Is not only

damaging to current American detente efforts but is particularly

menacing to Hong Kong authorities in view of their proximity and

susceptibility to potential Chinese retaliatory pressures.

•163, lines 11-14.)

substitute it tie 40

CONFIDENTIAL

indefcuduit puntire

C/3

---

## Page 5

18.

Page 99 beginning with "disrupting" on line 5 through

"display" on

line

and including the footnote on page 99. z4

This Dassage

describes specific CIA operations

(Page 169 line 23 through page 170, line 22,9

including tootnote.)

Page 102 beginning with "Despite" on line &

"returned" on line 10.

This should be deleted becaus

scribes a specific and sensitive CIA operation includi

(Page 175, lines 10-15.)

Krough

de:

20.

Page 105 beginning with "wiretap" on

ine 6 through

"surreptitious-entry" on line

Ought to be

leted since it

refers to

sensitive Agency sources and methods.

(Page 181,

Lines 2-3.)

27. Page 108 beginning with "tap" on line 37 throug

"Embassy", on line 1, page 109.

This passage deals

intermittently

with various operational proposals, activities inc.

Duding a:

recruitment of an identifiable individual, as well as with

sensitive methods of operation, e-g., surveillance

teams.

(Page 187, lines 6-24 through page 188, lines 1-15.)

Page 109 beginning with "FBI" on line 21 through

"station" on line 26.

operation which began with the FBI's spotting of a possible

Soviet intelligence agent. Since this information was then

turned over to the Agency, a question arises concerning the

need to seek the FBl's prior comments.

Page 11l beginning with "The" on line 22 through

"triumvirate" on line 23. It would seem that an effort ought

to be made to have this passage deleted of changed since itsy

damage potential. tol

Jis considerable,

and it does jeopardize the current

careers and livelihoods of the Agency's contacts. who are re-

ferred to by date and position and thus, are identifiable.

(Page 192, lines 21-22.)

24. Page 115 beginning with "I" on line 23 through

"department" on line 35.

This passage should be deleted

because it describes Agency methods of operation -- acquisi-

tion and passage of information to and from a liaison service

as well as an overall Agency prooram of operational activities xi

within Uruguay involving the

Page 200, lines 6-18

19%

CONFIDENIAI

---

## Page 6

14-00000

IN

MISSAGE

Page 1l6 beginning with "technical" on line 10

"secrets" on line 29.

throush "s decent ive is passes should e deleted

(Page 201, lines 12-23 and page 202, lines 1-9.)

Page 122 beginning with "The" on line & through

"Djilas" on line 9. This passage should be deleted because it

attests to the Agency's subsidization of publication/of Djilas'

book. In addition an effort ought to be. made to have the author

remove or appropriately alter the rest of the paragraph wherein

he refers to

an Agency news service located in

National Press Building". (Page 211, line 4.) /

Page 122 beginning with "from" through 'Gaines" on

Line 31. It is recommended that OGc's attention beytailed to

'hut

this

passage in order that they be made awarg of Its possible

interpretations. (Page 212, lines 4-5.)

Page 123 beginning with "Soon"

xon line 12 through

"Madrid" on line 35.

this passage deals with the author's work

on several "Peter Ward" books and, later, his assignment to

Madrid.

It is recommended that OGC's/attention be called to

this passage. (Page 212, last line through page 213, lines 1-23.)

29.

Page 126 beginning with "Chief' on last line through

"officers" on page 127, line 5.

This passage should be deleted

because it specifies the classified activities of a CIA officer,

as his involvement in the compilation of ,á classified "encyclopedic

study" are unwarranted disclosures of Agency methods. (Page 219,

lines 8-13.)

Page 130 beginning with "Free" on lane 20 through "CIA"

This phrase should be deleted because it could serve

to affect

Committee,

She life of one of the principals of the Free Cuba

a former witting contact, who

is now employed by the State Department. (Page 225, Ines 10-11.

31.

Page 150, all of lines 14 through 76. It would appear

that this description of the author's contact with Dr. Barne)

Malloy of ClA is very unfair to the latter.

Hunt had

a special relationship with Dr. Malloy and an effort

ought to be made by OGC to have the author rewrite this version

in ordes to reflect Dr. Malloy's true role in this affair.

Page 260, lines 22-23 through page 261, lines 7-2.)

CONTINENTIA?

C/5

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIA

32.

Page 220, lines 5 through 10. This passage concern-

ing the use of CIA alias documentation by Hunt and others in-

cludes loose language which implies that still another set of

documents was prepared by the CIA for Hunt's

use -- 1.e., a

set of documents which was not mentioned during the recent

Congressional "Watergate hearings". As such this is misleading

and

could serve to create additional difficulties for the Agency.

It is recommended that the OGC make an effort to have the author

rewrite this paragraph in order that this potentially damaging

language be removed from his manuscript. (Page 387, lines 4-9.)

t "fire".

Is descritics

CONFIDENTIA

C16

---

