# 104-10177-10189

## Page 1

104-10177-10189

AVION AND KELAN SIST

PRIOR TO FUNG

1. Fill in Seat. 2. on back. Dolach back llap and

lorraid lo RID.

2.

Dostroy Lost cover shoot, unless il recorás

signlicant deto laken or comments sequir-

ing preservation

FROM:

.. HID/

_TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il ble no and titlo shown are not proper, in-

sers propur lilo no. bolow and forward doe

unent 1o RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO

TO ALL ADORESSEES

PILE IN SECTION I ON BACK IF APPROPRIAFE

COMMENTS

TO

WISAESC

2.

DATE

RECrIVIO I PORW

28 ne is

COPY DETACHED

Let/Pira

LUH/BXF

salici Em

17/1/4 ak

RETURNTO

Background Uon

100-566

10.

18.

12.

15.

FILE TITLE

10459

"ENTRETINTO

610c

22200

02 Died%:

INTERT Maide

UFGA

19050

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

CLASSI NATIN

FAOCISSING

da *1,771

XXXXXX MARE NA STIT

NO UNCER V6 88.4-593

. un, 8111.

Chief of station, MMArals

SaTYPIC/OPERATIONAL

Transmittal of Memorandim of Oxal Commitment - Identity A

ALTON RIGUIRED REIEFIADES

Action Reguired: FIT

Reference

: None

Transmitted herewith are three (3). coples of Memorandum of

Oral Commitment for Identity A.

Andrew K. REUTENAN

Attachments:

1 - MOC i/

2 - IDENS U/S/c

Distribution:

3 - Addressee w/atts as

S/C

0: 27 9I

201-: 16322.

SUN OSPATCHED

CROSS RETRENGI TO

как".

DASTICAPA

SECRET

DATE TYPED

10 Dec 1964

MISPATCH SYMBOL, AND NUMBER

UFGA-19050

MEASQUARTERS FILE NUMPER

, 201-286382

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NORDEN OF ORIG COLITIENT

TO

:Deputy Chies, 1n/5d

FROM : Chief of Station, Ju"VE

SUBJECT: Engagenent of DESTITY A

201 250352

1.

Term and Project Chaige.

The subject indiridual has been

engaged under

oral contract for.use under TYPIC and is to be charged

against Pu cost conter.

The effective date of the cral contract 1s

I Deconber 1961 and it shall continue

until terminated by either

party upon fifteen days actual notice.

Security Approval. The appropriate security approval, to

utilize Subject as requested,

13 November 1964 per DIR 63823 dated 13 Nov 6•.

has been outained. Pat was glanted

on

at

Citizenship.

The Subject is a Cuban refugee

and was born

Sao Arriba, Holguin Oriente, cund resides

- IDENTTTY B

4.

Compensation.

Commencing on the eflective date of this

agreement, Subjectrift be paid compensation at the rate of $ 275.28

per month.

Such payments to be made folloving completion of

satisfactory service.

tax.

5.

Subject

Taxes

To deducted lined abas siSted cong

COMPEDENTITY C

Subject 1s

Subject is Irried

alable for Social Security a

and has a total of

dependents other than himself.

Quarters and/or subsistence.

The Subject

"ill not

be furnished quarters end/or subsistence.

Operational Expenses. "hen properly authorized, Subject will

• be reimbursed

for:

Operational travel including mileage clains for use

his personal autoravile.

Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls,

etc.

8. Other Comnitments.

BONUSES.

hath prior approval of COS, a bonus nay be

anthorazed for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The

amount of, the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and

results which vere achieved but will not excees 100.00 per nay single

bonus payment.

DEATH BENEFIT.

In the event of Subject's death in the line

Subjeet state.

a settiement not to exceed, $5,000.00 will be rade to the

Contignent Obligations.

No commitments other than those

above have been made to the Subject.

Raises.

Subject

is entitle to a $50.00

net raise upon completion

of training and Subjoot will receive another $50.00 net raise upon

infiltration.

: 7.

REVIEWED:

CONTRACT APPROVISG OFFICER

i.',

!."

2286382

---

## Page 4

..

SECRET

S/C/Attachment to UFGA-19050

IDENTITIES

IDENTITY

IDENTITY B

IDENTITY

PANEQUE Batista, Victor

928 .N.W. 2nd Street,

Apt #2, Miami, Fla.

SS# 051 - 36 - 4609

COMT

5CA t

AFGANT"

96! 24436.2

---

