# 104-10247-10082

## Page 1

104-10247-10082

RETURN TO SIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH

Deputy Chiet, i/SA

PROCESSING

Chief of Station,

JAWAVE

TYPIC ANTRUNK Operational

IraLSalttal of PRO PArt LI BeT AUTRUNK-Il

RED - FEFERENCES

Action Required:

Please Grant OA

Reference

DIR-73942 dated 8 October 1963

(Granted Subject's POÄ)

Transmitted herewith. are three (3) copies of Subject's

PRQ Part II. It is requested that Of be granted Subject.

Andrew K. REUTENAN

Attachmenta:

PRQ Part 11 - H/W

Distribution:

3 - Addrosnoo a/attA.

CS COPY

Culty 970910

10 SUl G4 JUL :6 864.

567118799511

UPCA- 16A73

201-142291

$ +5

SACAIT

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CORD.

QUESTIONNAIRE

TONAL INFORMATION

0201 2 5822

SECTION

CONTACT AND DEVELO

MaS. 6iRST CD*

to OR DEV

INDICATE MOM. WE»:

AMICE-14 Infiltrated into Havana in mid-August 1963.

One of his

primary tasks.on this infiltration.

to contact and to recruit

AMTRUNK-10 as an Interna

ANTRUNK-10 hid AMICE 14:40 0185

home for several days during which time AMTRUNK-10 agreed to

work with ANICE 14 In MAPRON activity.

TO ANY DEGRUNSIE

CASE OFFICERO

NARDE 19G.

SHEIMRE SUBIECT CULLO BE PUANÃO DILA QUICALE AND

INDICATE

Inca.

Since Subject is now and will

continue to bo an internal asset,

it is unlikely he would be aware of any

If, however,

Subject should be exfiltrated, appropriate bona

files are on

record. Subject speaks only Spanish.

Subject has never met any KUBARK case officere..

100,04

SECRET CS COPY

---

## Page 3

SECRET

3426thor

onmunist

disherank

10 1014

Strat

Charter member

jor

i Batista revolutionary organt.

tlon

Shinie

been in conflict with Fidel Castro:

in beca born ant-Castro and anti

mid-19

Subject, like many otners

who rose to

mphect ishs "retai

Little control, it any Anciets over the Subject.

He has an Sa:

Systen but has written to wis wAVE accommodation address only once

Snce his recruftsent iin August 1963. Any control over Subject

Which exists would come from ALASH-10 a

Headquarters internal asset,

Ithin whose.

SOUP ANTRUNK-10 18 act

N/A

TATING MIS

Subject,

high-wanking wilttary officer, is working with a group of

• individuals who have been friends for years.

Then operating outside of

this group, Subject formulates his cover story to fit the individual

INDICATE ARAVICE COB MICH SUBJECT THIRES ME (DAll DRA, (80 OBTAINE).

KUBARK

SECTICH IV

SUCH

INTELLIGENCE COMMECTIONS AMO TRAIING

81+m 899

• 5101000

1889000

Nore Known

O•Ea1L0.

ANLASH-1, AMICE-27 and ANICE 14

Subject has beca trained in Socret Writing and ban 5/

materiale in his possession.

CO: A00093100 MUTIONI

la the absence of a nirong, untire Cuban goterraine elo.

Subject Toalloon that only

democratle Cubana do uniont Fidol. Cantro,

S18-a8?

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Para li Section Icont-rank of Commidante but bas

relegated to a inor post. In INRA.

Within the con

present official position, Subject can do little re nels

country.

As a conspirator and member of a potential coup Broup

with ODYOKE backing, Subject feels that he

the original democratic atms of the anti-batista

ret

deposing Fidel Castro

---

## Page 5

Subject has pot been used o

contacted befores

Subjett was beep told that he tatormation le to be used by obvoke:

ĐE TÃC - SUBTE

See paragraph 5 below:

ÓTTALE: SUBJECT'S PAÓPOSTO PR-PE TIPA USE OR DUTIÉS.

Subject might better be

classified under the heading of a political

action agent than as an intelligence collector per se.

primary task is to recruit high-level personnel in

the Rebel Army for

the purpose of orcanizing a conspiracy against the Castro government:

As such, any intelligence he obtains is a by-product of his ciforts

toward his primary task.

24

SECTION

vId

PROPOSED LIAISED) OR 0I

aCTIVITY

BRIAIL. SURICER'A TROPOSIO GIALICY PURE SQUIALI' GO GRERALICHAE VIL'"

See para 5, Section VI above, for Subject's proposed operational

D. 8H898 BUBIECT

N/A

a4 D0r008 AGRICA

SECTION VIIA

ACRE ALATIONSHIR MITH BUQNECE

40G869DE9 1983949

"Barnes.

Section

paragraph o above, Subjoct da

an internal

Principal Aront and poldlical action arent sho

receiven M

malary.

---

## Page 6

SECRET

SECTION IR

S+: 98:1

p.940d #

coulo conct ine

Subject 46 a Career silitary ordicer and forger guerrilla fighters

SECTION'*

commodi%

8H:00.

Subject 1s not patd a salary nor ar

made to do so.

ingeaents been

No promises of commitments have been made to Subject other

than a broad offer of OpYOke support.

SET CEON #

¡CE AND SECURIT

INICATILTHR VIRLO AGENCUES DRO ENELO FILES MITM-HMICA

BEEN. CHECHCO- AND THA BESULTS

Subject has been checked through JAWAVE and OptiVy files.

results of these checks are to be found in Subject's 201-fle.

INDICATE OPMIR INVESTAGATIVE MEASURES PANTS DO VERIFO DIOGRAPMICAL INFORNATIDE PURSINNED-NY SUBJECT.

Other details of Subject's background have been vertfied

by AlICE 14.

POOVISIONAL DPENATIOGAL

APPROVAL ON OPERATIONAL AR.

PROVAL DON SUBJECIS USE MS BEEN

A- 0A76 APPROVAL OBTAINEN

POA per DIR-73942

7 October 1963

BELFABILITY DAD SECURITY.

CATING EVIDENCE SUEDE

Subject's character,

rellability and security are evaluated as good.

Subject's efforts in the anti-Batista revolution would tend to con-

firm this evaluation.

NOTUATION

0918018080+100 68

SECURITY

+0E@PO+9?

None known.

1. Use 0s Arduca. Our 48

None known.

to aza de testa.

SECRE!

---

## Page 7

SACRE.

Not know-

GENERAL

SUCH aS His COULD PASS AS a MATIN

Od-ACCION OTHER

Subjects languerabilitles and other characteristics are such that

be could not east paste a native of

other Sparlsh-speaking

country:

* SPICITE INTELS AITORMAIIOM IN PRO PARTS T AND Vi

RNE ON'OTHEN MEANS.

Information In PRO Parts I and II was

obtained by research, files,

and AMICE-14's personal assessment of Subject.

ROUTINE ACT.100. 88

&j0:

RED. IF AND WHEN ERMINATION

hit bette

PLEASA ENFLAIN: (Al80

None

SECTION XV

EMERGENCE CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

61 YE

DETAILS DIE, RECOGAITION SIGRALS, SIDI WHERE COULD CONTACT RE MADE

PAT DONA FIDES COULD INDIVIOUAL

MANITE CONTACI

If Subject were:

to be exfiltrated permanently (which Is A¡§"\yU™

Likely),

the use of his warname

of AMLASH-'I'

"Charles";

and/or that of AMICE-14, "David"; would serve as bona fides.

SECTION

MASCELL'ANEOUS OPERATICHAL CATA MID. REMARKS

"N/A

..":

so car, 48.0

13 July 1964

SECRET

---

