104-10186-10424)

a rf EN j ORT TORMATHOIN lee Poel

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘als materat ecatame tpiation eFectng the Kellonal Defonen of toe Untied tales wtthta the mvaning of the Haplonaes tae, Tie
10 bac exe Te nee toaviee Uanscimnse Of trvinion ef waise te say cunant to ta uaaetnoriond perce U precited UY kaw,
‘

BECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSBM

REPORT-NO, —- CSCI-316/01219-64

Countay Cubs
‘Sualect Reinaldo MARTINEZ Garcia OATE oistR, ©=«-«-23.: Soptember 1964 :
: RETURN TO CIA © No. PAGES 3 :
Background Use Only. REFERENCES
Do Not Reproduce
* 1964

ae « Washington,D.C. ;
7 DATE Acq. September” 1964 FIELD REPORT. NO.
THis iS UNSVAIUATED PAPOBMATION, SOURCE GUADINGS ALE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 18 TENTATIVE.

source, A forner Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service ‘Gntil April 1964.

i Headquarters Comments

aie The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental,
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that tho addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency. :

ae lhe Reinaldo MARTINEZ Garcia was a policeman and worked at the .
: Department of Investigations until 1963. At the present time u
: he is working for the Cuban Telephone Company,

: 2, MARTINEZ, a mulatto, was born about 1939, is five feet
seven inches tall, 135 pounds, has a slim build, and kinky hair 152, 3:

Headquarters Comments

1. Included with a report dated 19 October 1960, was a :list of

+ policenen who would be taking a course given by the

Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical Department

y of Investigations = DTI) of the Cuban National Revolutionary
Police. Appearing on the list was Renaldo dARTINEL Garcia.

2, In Febpuary 1961, a fairly reliable source’ who was mployed :
by th gave a +
representative of this Agency a copy OF an oO; cial roster iz

of DTI personnel. Included on th list was Renaldo MARTINEZ
Garcia, serial number 25925, grade 18, with a monthly salary

of $30.

momen

SECRET 5
NO FOREIGN DISSEM : aaa]
wae Tew Taser Tea Tae Ta
REP CINCLANT  CINCSO # I&NS
i

[se Ftd diweice mes by 2

wae

[J LXx-1690

HLSA/SMOBL | KS MADR (2+ _CI/RiA 3 INP PROJECT(AMMUG/L) +
ips wH/SAZR 4.2 L/wass) in } £SCI-316/0121 ee
W/SA/CL bt .

{iemrax tv


wre

SECRET :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/012191,64

In a report dated 18 May 1962, an untested source stated that

- Renato MARTINES Garcia, a membor of the Departamento Tecnico

de Investigaciones (DTI), was a Communist of opportunity. Source
said. that MARTINEZ was born about.1937, weighed 130 pounds, is

“five fvot nine inches tall, and has dark brown hair and dark eyes.

os SECRET
. NO FOREIGN DISSEM

