104-10295-10004 |.

29 August 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Sumary of S/W Training and Issuance of Materials.
AGENT : AMLASH/L

PL&CE : Paris, France

DATE : 17-22 August 1962

TRAINER: TPH c/o.

1. AMLASH/1 was instructed in S/W techniques by the under-
Signed in a Paris Station safehouse on 17 and 18 August, and was
given an S/d review in the final triefing session held in the hotel
oom of Wallace A. Growery (Madrid Station C/O) on 22 August.
Instruction was given in the use of carbon writing system No, 15136
and in the use of liquid developer system No. 56638. The "scorch"
nethod of development was also dencustrated to a/1 as an alternate
system. A total of five hours was devoted to this instruction.

2. A/L, who was recruited a short time prior to coming to
Paris, was introduced to the idea of using S/W by the undersigned
during discussions held in Copenhagen. Although for security
considerations, he was skeptical at first about using such a means
of communication, he was without widue effort convinced that any
productive relationship depended uron his being able to communicate
with his C/o on a regular basis through. the medium of S/# letters
sent through normal nail channels. It was apparent from his early
questions that he was unfamiliar with the principles of S/d and clandes.
tine communications in general. after further talks in Paris with
Gtowery on 16 August, 4/1 was fully prepared to ancept the concest
of S/W conmunications,, and arrangezents were made for this instruction
to begin the following day.

3. The first training session on 17 August lasted a little
more than two hours, and was devoted to an explanation of the S/¥
system of conmnication, including careful instruction in the
preparation of a letter containing S/¥. A/1 also prepared an S/w
ietter of his own under the supervisiop of the undersigned. He
seemed to grasp readily the principtes of the preparation of an S/a

!

{
i



messaze and experienced only a little difficulty at first in remenber-
ing all the steps in sequence necessary for the preparation of an S/W
message. He was generally attentive to the instruction given. How-
ever, in keeping with his terperment, he was a little impatient

during the preparation of the S/w message itself upon the cover

letter. At the end of this session, he demonstrated that he renembered
the basic steps in a satisfactory manner, particularly considering
that 4t was his first day in S/W instruction.

4, The second period of instruction took place in the same
safehouse, lasting about two hours. This session was devoted to a
review of the S/d procedures and the preparation by A/L of another
practice S/v letter. Following this, A/1 was instructed in the
development of S/¥ messages, using the liquid developer No. 56538
The scorch system of development was also demonstrated. A/1 was
inpressed by the simplicity of the liquid developer and the imediate
reaction which it produced. The undersigned developed one message;
then 4/1 was allowed to prepare the developer from its dry pill form
and to develop a second practice S/W message for himself. Following
the pericd devoted to S/w development, a general review of S/W
communications was held, the basic points apparently being well-fixed
in 2/1's mind.

5. During the final formal meeting with A/1 vn 22 August

with Grovery and the undersigned participating, the latter gave A/1

@ general review of all the S/i procedures which were to be used

in his contact with KURARK. He also was provided with the following

items:
A. ‘wo sheets of S/W carbon paper ( No. 126)

B. Forty-seven pills of developer ( No. 56638

C. One tablet of writing paper provided by TSD and
known to be compatible with the carbon sheets.

D. 3 No. 2 percils of French manufacture.

EB. One ball-peint pen with water-resistant ink.

F. Two acconcdation addresses: one in Madrid for
regular contact; one in New York City for rapid
emergency contact (see attached S/W data sheet).

&. Appropriate indicators (see S/w data sheet)

It is noted that 4/1 did not have a secure accomodation address in
PBRUMEN to give us at this time. He was told, however, that it was
imperative that he provide one for us by S/W letter within two weeks
of his return to PRRUMEN. This he stated he would do,

6. During the last S/W review, A/l was show a photograph
of one of his practice messazes which he had prepared, He was quite
interested in seeing this, which served to illustrate a nunber of the
training points which had been covered during previous instruction.

f
!
i



ere

Generally, A/1 yas an interested pupil and it is believed that he
will be able to carry out the instructions in a proper manner. He
is quite security conscious, a factor which it is believed, will add
to his attempts to seek perfection in his 8/i correspondence and

4n the secure storage of his S/W materials when not in use. It is
‘also know that A/1 practiced his S/d techniques in his hotel room
after leaving the 22 August meeting. This is known because he had
an additional question to ask us at a brief meeting on 23 August.

7. Tt should also be noted that the TSD technician who
developed A/1's practice letters recommends that for best results,
‘all letters from A/l be subjected to ammonia fuming before immersion
in the developer.

Attachments:
Agent S/W Record
Form ##-55900



nee

iar cote

a4 Cay

REPORT OF S/W TRAINING, PARIS.



1.
2.

3.

4.

AGENT S/W RECORD Date 29 kuzust 1962

Agent Cryptosym: AMLASH/L

SH supplies issued to the Avent (date and quantity):
2 sheets of carbon S/# paper £15134 and 18 pills of developer
#56632 both issued on 22 August 1962.

correspondence to the agent will be in Spanish and hanéwritten

oF typed; from the agent will be printed or typewritten (in Spanish).

Location assigned for placement of S/d text: S/d text will be placed
on the face of the letter; agent has, however, been instructed
to check both sides of letters received for S/i. Letters from the
agent on face of text.

Accommodation addresses:

To be supplied by agent in first S/W letter he sends (this to be
by 15 Septexber 1952 at the latest.)

Accommodation addresses for letters from the agent:
Regular accomodation address:

Rapid/Daerrency accommodation address:

i
i
i

Agents letters to be eigned|

Re-suppl - arranzenents

If cartons lost: Azent writes| etter to Matrid address in
normal manner. Absence of S/i mesus7@ Thdicates loss of carbons and
Agent 1s to expect next. letter he receives to be 2 re-supply of
carbons (in the form of the letter itself).

If developer lost: Agent so indicates in letter to Matrid (in S/d)
re-supply will take place through one of the three Dead Drops which
Agent has teen told to locate and report soonest by S/W. Identity of
Drop utilized and date loaded to be conveyed to Azent through S/#
message developed by "scorch" method... see below.

j


Te

Requ!red indicatore:
A. For presence of
will contain S/z,

‘son letters to the agent: “11 letters to agent

B, To indicate less of wr'tinz materials; Sar‘on sheets: Azent
writes to Madrid, letter with no S/#. Developer: tzent writes
in S/d and so ‘ndicates.

C, Indicate carvon re-supply Upon indication of loss of
carton sheets (see atcve), preferabl; the next letter sent to
Agant will te a carton sheet, In any caso azent uncerstands
that any cover letter containing the word "fincs” (Spanish for
farm) hae teen sritten on a carton sheet, which he ‘s then to vae

‘or S/N correspondence as needed.

Opticral indicatore: Any letter received by Agent containing the word
"hacienda" ta th letter is understood to indicate that the
S/s neasage conta fed therein 1s to te developad ty the "scorch"
syeten.

Danger or control indicators:
Letters fron Agent: Any word, xark, phrase, otc., after the
Spanish word "FDi" at the end of the S/¥ message ind‘cates
agent is under control.

Letters to the Azent: Acknowledgement of Agent's control indicator
le to be made ty duplicating his "control indicator" tn the
next S/¥ messare to him,

poe

Gass eanovsag pnippenaie ton sta sne onassasoestanoons

{
|



(Siemens Seinen cesarean nen
\

AGENT s/i nEsceD Date 27 August 1962

le Agent Cryptonym: AMLASH/1

2. SH supplies issued to the Avent
2 cheats of carben S/i
#56633 both issued on 22

3.

{dete and quantity):

Paper 715136 and L8 pills of doveloper

correspondences to the avent will be in Spanioh end handreitten
or typed: from the agent vill bs printed or typewritten (in Spanish),

k. Location assigned for Plecement of S/d text:

S/t text will ba placed

en the face of the

tters agent has, however, been instructed

to cheek both sides of lot
text,

agent on face of

Aere received for SAi, Letters fron the

S+ Avoomecdation addresses:
To be aupplied by agent in
by 15 September 1962 at the latest.)

s/ letter he sends (this to be

Accommodation addresses for letters from the a;
Regular accommodation address:

Rapid/Rmerzency accomodation address:

Agents letters to be signed

6. Re-suppl arrangements:
If carbons lost:

letter to Madrid address in

normal manner. Absence of S/i messa
Agent is to expect next letter he re
carbons (in the forn of the letter itself).

If developer lost:

ze indicates loss of carbons and
ceives to be a re-:

50 indicates in letter to Madrid (in S/s);

re-supply will take place throu,
Agent has been told to locate ai
Drop utilized and date loaded
message developed by "scorch"

igh one of the
ind report soonest by S/W.
to be conveyed to Aj
method... see below.

three Dead Drops which
gent through S/W



Rages

pr

Eequired indicators:
4h. For preoence of S/d on letters to the agent: All letters to agent

c.

Optional indicators:

will contain s/e.

To indicate lose of writing miterials: Carton sheets: Azent
writes to Matrid, letter with no 3/4. Developer: Azont writes
in S/W and 50 ‘ndieates.

Indicate cer*on re-supply by mail: Upon indteation of loss of
tarton sheets (see above), prafera'l: the noxt letter sent to
Agent vill ‘e 9 carton choot. In any case avent understands
that any cover letter contain'ng the vord "finea® (Spantsh for
farm: hap teen eritten on a carion eheet, which he is then to use
Tor "s/¢ correspondence as needed.

letter received by Agent containing. the word
letter is underetood to indicate that the
rein is to te developed ly the “scorch”

Fhacienda® tn the
S/i message conta
system.

Danger or control indicators:

Letters frax Agent: Any word, mark, phrase, cte., after the
Sranish word "PD at the end of the S/i mesecge indicates
agent is under control.

Letters to the Agent: Acknowledgemant of Agent's control indicator
is to be made ty duplicating his "control indicator" tn the
next S/d messaze to him.

2.

peeereera, Speereeeen

A pet acetic en tines

SS ee ots,

