UNITED STATES GOV&RNMENT

Memorandum

AOTOI2S-10126].: ——orricnas roms no. 10 :

SECRET, |

TO: Chief/FIOB DATE: 30 September 1965

FROM : J. F. Meredith

»
SUBJECT: SLOBODA, Vladimir

#350565 rote
SHFH A
Bb. =
1. At the request of the Deputy Chief, SRS, a summary has been at
prepared concerning Viadimir SLOBODA, Polish-~born United States Army -
enlisted man who defected on 2 August 1960 and was granted political =

asylum by the USSR.
BACKGROUND

2. The following background information concerning SLOBODA was
obtained from Army Chief of Staff Intelligence (ACSI). :

pastasstcnrersssenraoss e Besieecsneeceer Sc

~~ SEGHEN” | Seasa |


2

SECRET!


SLOBODA's KNOWLEDGE OF CIA PERSONNEL

8.[] #877196, CIA staff employee assigned to the »
{German Station from 0 1962, stated in October 1960 that es early
as March 1960 SLOBODA knew him by his true name. saw SLOBODA
about three times in the lstter's office concerning the acquisition of
basic intelli ‘terials such as East German telephone books, city

plans, ete. questioned other CIA employees concerning their
knowledge of SLOBODA. None had any personal contact with _him but ell
felt that they had seen him at the Camp King coffee bar.
thought it conceivable that SLOBODA could have learned the trne names
of CIA employees at Camp King.

POSSIBLE RECRUITMENT ATTEMPT BY SLOBODA

9. The following information was extracted from U.S. Arry Counter-
intelligence Summary, dated 15 February 1961, concerning two approach
operations against USAREUR personnel by Soviet Intelligence Services (sts).

-3-

SECRET :



a

ryt

SEER

—

|

CONCLUSION H

10. It is not known whether SLOBODA is affiliated with the Soviet 7
Intelligence Services at this time. According to a Foreign Service
Dispatch, dated 19 December 1962, from the American Embassy, Moscow, _.

Rr 7 pS LOSCELAT ME i
C/ Tonn F. Veredith

JFM:ked
-he

SECRET.
