104-10188-10469)

8 November 1962 .

LIEMPTY Project Renewal Request

1. It is requested that the LIEMPTY Project be
renewed for the periéd 1 December 1962 thru 30 November
1963 for a total of $49,900; $30,400 for FY 1963 and $19,500
for FY 1964, Funds in this amount have been programmed
for this Project for the period requested above.

2, It is not anticipated that any training will be
required during the next project year.

3. Emergency recontact instructions for Raymond H.
GERENDE and Oliver G. SCANTLING are on file at Headquarters,

4. This project 1s primarily a support asset and i

is not designed to provide positive intelligence.

5. The first LIEMPTY field project outline was o'
approved for the period 1 December 1958 thru 30 Novemb
1959 and provided for the development of operational
information through physical and photo surveillance,
and support of other Mexico City operations, particularly
thoso targetted against Soviet intelligence personnel
and installations, The LIEMPTY project has continued
since its ortginal approval with a few changes in
personnel and objectives. The personnel in this project
man three basehouses and one photo truck designed to
do full surveillance of the LIMERICK installation in
Mexico City.

6. This project has been rated in the past as
covering some of the most valuable investigative assets
available to the Mexico City Station, A review of the
project request for renewal indicates the continued ,
efficiency of this project.



7. The Station considers that the project ts now
operating at its optimum size and does not Plan to expand
during the coming year,

8. WH Division requests renewal of this project in

accordance with the project renewal request attached
hereto.



(then Fitted ty

PROJECT ACTION

Tel_@F ACTION

WH Division

Tiree etatiow

Moxico City

Peat

“CONCURRERCES OF O1VISION

TYFED WAVE (And elanatuce)

a
a)

o3

HA/PO/A | a aS
SE, King.

ee | if

on CONCURRERGES. OF THER COMPONENTS

PI state iar 3

cr starr | =, [03 JF. 7

|

CONCUR:

chief, Donec in wes

TROT
-_ : ts
1_pec 62 30_How 63___]$ 49,900 ivi as 19,500
Assistant Deputy Director | ~y AKG ii — fan 62
(Plans) | vn ce | ¢

wren 8493 02)

See

