# 104-10183-10446

## Page 1

104-10183-10446

.. "

ague sue t

SEC =*

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

it more denite

I gunfit frustry unit

SUBJECT: Neeting with ANHIP/1, lew lork City, 28 April 1965

alis

1. Time-Place-Purpose

AMVHIP/1 was wet on 2S April in New York City for the purpose

of introducing the undersigned's replacement and to debrief him

on his recent trip to Europe. The undersigned met ANIlP/l at his

office at 1215 hours, and chatted there for a short time. The

undersigned and ANVHIP/1 then went to the lobby of Waldorf Astoria

Hotel where the undersigned's replacement, Mr.

was

introduced to ASMIIP/1. Mr.

Jused the alias "Harry Wills."

After a working lunch at the Waldorf's Bull and Bear Restaurant,

the party motored by taxi to the Taft Hotel (Room 551). The

meeting lasted, including lunch, from 12l% hours until 1700. At

the conclusion of the debriefing at the Taft, the undersigned

accompanied AMHIP/l back to his office and made the appropriate

goodbys. Following that, the undersigned returned to the Taft Hotel

to pick up Mr.

2. Details of the meeting

A majority of the items covered during the meeting have been

the subject of previous cables from the field. However, for

greater clarity, a number of these were reviewed with AlNHIP/1 and

additional information and comments obtained.

a. Cuban Government efforts to obtain foreign exchange

through the Florida lotteries.

(1) AWHIP/I stated that he had been approached in

Nadrid by Rafael Garcia-Bongo Dirube (see @ladrid)31S6-1S 24995)

20-2

SEGRET

4/00

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

and related tratficy who wanted him to act as a contact man with

Santos Trafficante who is presently living In Miami. According

to GB, he had been told by(UNSNAFU/19 (U/19). that ise chief

Pineiro had. okayed the following operation involving the Cubai

lotteries played illegally in Florida. The Cuban Governient was

prepared to give throughlo three winning numbers por reek for

Trafficante to use in pretiting on the Cuban lotteries played in

Florida

Trafficante was to pay $50,000 upon receipt of the numbers

rrow(u/i9 and an additional $50,000 after the win. This money,

which would have been a free source of income to the Cuban Government,

would then be either banked in Europe by(üy19 on behalf of the.

Cuban Government or sent to lavana according to instructions he

received. GB had found out that AMWIIP/l knew Trafficante in

Miami and, had contacted him to act as a messenger to Trafficante.

AMYIIP/1 was also offered, but declined, sum of money for his

participation in this operation. As a matter of interest this

ploy for illegal winning from the lottery was

first conceived in

1959 by GB and Trafficante but it did not materialize as Pineiro

and

perhaps other govt officials would not play ball at that time.

It is interesting to note that, for the price of $100,000 a week

in foreign exchange, the Cubun Government is now willing to enter

into a conspiracy of this level with well-known gangster elements.

Other people in the Florida area who will probably be affected by

this action are Amlato Batisti (former owner

of the Seville

Biltmre Hotel in Havana) and one. FN! Santos

both

of whom are also

involved as king pins in the lottery racket.

in Florida.

SEOTET

5000

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Accoring to miltyl, Paupa is the center for this activity.

AMMIlIP/l stated that if we wanted to take any action in this

matter, it would have to be done soon as GB would expect him to

react regarding the contact with Trufficante in the very near future.

Extreme caution should be used in any action in this rield as any

leak might readily finger to AWHIP/l. It is interesting to note

that in an intervier

with a Madrid Station officer (eited Para 5.

(Madrid 1386), GB stated that ht hud turned down a DSE request to

work for them overseas.

He had however offered to become intolved

In Illegal business deald abroad on behalf of DSE. He never recelved

a reply to this offer. It is also noted that, according to ANTIP/?,

CO/l9 is not witting that he (ANWIIP/1) has this opportunity to

act us a go-between with GB and Trafficante on this matter.

b. Luts Blanca Fernandoz, Vice Minister of Communications.

(1) In response to the question AMMIlP/l stated that he

knew Blanca slightly but had no significant assessment to give on

the man. He did know that he was an old DR member and that the

best sources of information on him would be AMLASH/1, /2 and /3.

c. ANNIP/L

(1) In discussing the general situstion in Madrid and

Europe, AWHIP/l again deplored the use by kUBARk of AMNIP/1

in operations against the Castro Cubans. He stated that he didn't

know him personally but that many people had told him that A'NIP/1

was no good and a person

in whom one could have obsolutely no

confidence.

He cited for an example how ANNIP/l had told the

mother of Diaz-Argueles

that he had been sent frow AMLASHl/3, a

SECTET

38000

---

## Page 4

14-00000

. /.90

SECRET

- 4.

statement, which-according to ANIMIP/1, was simply not true.

d. Milan Travel Agebey

(1) AWHIP/1 mentioned the Travel Agency in Milan which

he had noticed was advertising trips to Cuba. AMNIP/l had

nothing more

to contribute to this bit of information beyond that

20-2

already reported in (Madrid) 3900 (IN 47562).'

e. LAYAS Basan, Cuban technician at la Rochelle, France.

(1) ANWIIP/1 mentioned this man may in fact have a

brother, Enrique ZAYAS Bazan, who is syupathetico and lo now

working at the parking lot

at the Miaul Alrport.. He had found

nothing to add on this lead other than

that provided 1n

1. ANNILIP/l's itimerary in Europe.

(1) For the record, AMWIP/l varied his itinerary

during his last trip in Europe to some degree from that agreed

upon with his leadquarters case officer. His itinerary was as

follows: New York to Paris, Madrid, Paris, Rome, Milan, Madrid,

Miami.

MADAN

g. Jorge Modal Rivas, Vice Minister for Foreign Commerce

(1) AMMIIP/l stated that Jorge MEDAN has a brother now

241-273556

living in Miami, Ricardo MEDAN Rivas, who would be an excellent

20-4

entre to the former. A'WHIP/l reported on Ricardo in Caris) 0190

(IN 35169). ANWHIP/1 stated that Ricardo was a trustworthy man

who knows ANCRUMB/1 well, plus a great many people who are still

In the Cuban Government today. (Writer's note: This lead should .

be followed through.)

1. Dismissal or (4N9MAFU/9 by CUNÊNAFU/19

(1) The gist of this matter was forwarded to Headquarters

SES."T

7

---

## Page 5

SESTET

Ayz04

in Parts) 0253 (IN 37116). AWHIP/1 repeated his feelings as

basically reported in the aforementioned cable. He stated that

CUNÉNAF /19 in discussing the incident actually wus very fair to

CUNSÑAFU/9 and had stased that he was trily sorry to have had to

dismiss (IVFT/9. He said however that WAsWAFU/9's pugilistio

attitude and threats to hinsell as Cuban Ambassador to France

could simply not be tolerated. He stated that had this flare-up

by UNSNAFT/S taken place in Havana, then it might have been

dealt with as a man-to-man matter rather than as an employer-

to-employee matter. He also said that he hated to firéCUNSNAFU/9

due to the latter's friendship with AMIP/l and AMWHIP/. As a

0z

result ofCiNFU/g's being fired, his wife also lost her job with

the Cuban representation to UNESCO in Paris. She has since

however found another job in UNESCO working for the delegation of

another country.

i. ('i9's recent trip to llavana

(1) Because of the interest in the "coincidental"

02

trip to Harana of both UNLUU/ 19 and ANCASH/3 shortly after

having received the "planted" information of the MISPAIN operation,

we queried LWHIP/1 regarding(W/l's trip. A'MIIP/I stated that,

to the best of his knowledge, /19 went home because of the

precarious condition of his mother's health. Upl9 was called by

Foreign Minister Roa in Yadrid and advised that he should return.

Cu/19 carried certain medicines with dim for his nother. ASWIIP/1

did not know the nature of the mother's illness, but apparently it

02

came on rather suddenly (if possible, the medical history of(Uy19's

SEC.

---

## Page 6

MATT

-

6

mother should be traced). AMllP/l stated that WlASH/2,

Garcia-Bunga, and Gallerreta all confirmed(U/19's mother's

illness. Carrillos left for lavanu on about the zoth of sarah.

j. for the record AWHIP/l, in discussing

the (UNSNAFU/ 9-

CUN)SVAFU/19 affair, stated that only(0%19 and his family and the

code clerk (Clavista) and his family now are liring in the Embassy

building itself. The living quarters for a number of the other

Cuban mission employees are now located in the Consular. (Check

this)

k. AMLASH/3 returned to lavana

(1) "Cucu DeLeon told A'WIlP/I three or four days ago

in Miami that AMLASIl/3 had called from Madrid very recently and

stated that he was going to return to lavana. LHIP/l had no.

other details on AYLASH/3's return or shether in fact he had

actually done so.

1. AMLASH/2

(1) AMNHIP/1 stated that AMLASHl/2 and 3 were indeed

disillusioned with the Americans to date. AMlASH/3 still believed

that it had been through the office of the American Government

that he had been refused a visa to the Dominican Republic. (It

will be recalled that AYLASHl/3 had complained of this before to

AMHIP/1, and AMHIP/I had been instructed to suggest to AMLASH/3

that it was his own known employment by the Government of Cuba in

a legitimate capacity which was

probably reason enough in itself

for the Dominican Government to

refuse him a visa.) ANMMIP/1

stated that the had used this argument sith A'lASH'3, but that

AMLASIl/3 remained convinced that there was more behind the refusal

than this.

AMLASIl/3 stated, in

discussing his dissatisfaction with

SEt: -

---

## Page 7

-

the Americans, that he was generally displeased because Americans

would use people like A'NIP/1 and then did not wish to talk to,

let alone deal with, people like himself and AMLASH/2. He did

not probe into the discussions in Madrid betreen AWHIP/1, AMIASHl/2, 13,

and QUSPORT/1. AMMIlP/I did say that there was no point in trying

to argue with these people at that time, or to defend the possible

American positions vis-a-vis them, because they were in fact so

convinced in their own minds that there rould be little use at

that time in trying to change their viers (this point at a

subsequent fuller review of these discussions should be conducted,

in Spanish by Swenson at an appropriate

time in the near future).'

m. MISPAN Operation

(1) ANTIP/I did not have much addittonal information

to contribute concerning his MISPANN talls with/19 bejond that

reported in (Paris)0355 (IN 11111), He did say, however, that he

had actually given the name and address of Mr. Collado to

Carrillos

who included this in his cable about the matter directly

to Cello Sanchez

to Havana. A'MIIP/l stated that he digressed

slightly from the story as given him in the briefing because he

felt that if he pin-pointed Fidel as the one leader who must go,

CP/19 would possibly then not have taken such quick action on the

matter, and in fact, may not have

reported it at all. alip/l

relt that Carrillos undoubtedly will discuss

the MISPAWS information

on his current trip

to Havana. 190711P,/1, as stated in above

cable, sadd that he offered to try to gee more information from

Mr. Callado it @/in s0 desired. Cole stated that he rould await

comment from Havana. before decinding on ans further action. AMlIP/l

T/PV

---

## Page 8

14-00000

• ..

- 8-

was certain that this ploy vorked without suspicion, and stated

that he was willing to go further with this operation if so

desired by KUBARK. Caution!

П..

ASWHTP/1 representative to travel to llavana on invitation

orC0/19.

(1) Regardine o's osser for AWHIP/1 Or AWHIP/2

to travel to Havana on ? May with a french theatrical group in

order to examine additional paintings, gews, and other loot taken

from Cuban refugees and now offered for sale by the Cuban Government

to ubtain sorely needed foreign exchange, AIMHIP/l stated that he

would need an

seaver on this natter fairly soon. (It will be noted

that we told (Paris in DIR 00721 that there was interest in this

offer and that te were secking a suitable candidate). Since

Headquarters has not had a suitable candidate for this trip and

did not have prospects of developing one who could make the trip

securely, we asked AMlIP/l if he had someone in mind who could

make the trip. AMMIlf/l stated that he thought an "experienced"

person of our choosing would be able to get more useful information

for us.

He stated that perhaps it would be best not to involve

an agent witting of AMIIP/l's true relationship with KUllARk in

the event that the agent was irrested and forced to talk. We told

1MI1P/1 that as a safer, but obriously less desirible, alternative

we might have an unwitting person go in, because much of the

Information that he would normally get as a result of a legitimate

business interest in the loot will be in fact of use to lillakh:

and we were willing to forego i maximm "take" for the trip in the

interest of security.

ASIP/l then said, "In that case, perhaps.

SEGRET

---

## Page 9

SEGRET

- 9

= business partner in Milan, Oreste Corletto, would be willing

so make the trip for me." AMIIP/l did not have details on

Corletto at his fingertips but said that he would either send

•. them or telephone them to "Harry Wills" the folloing days.

(WHIP/l stated however that Corletto, who is about 1t gears old

and born in Nilan, Is very pro-American und defends the American

position in the world at the drop. of a hat with anyone who takes

issue. AMHIP/l stated that Corletto had just returned from a

pleasure trip to Moscow and that if anything, was even more pro-

West and pro-American after this experience. (Follow up soonest)

•. (UNSANFT/19 Gas-Light Club Nembership

(1) It has suggested previously that 190HIP/l buy

QI:KAFT/19 a membership in the Paris Gas-Light Club as a gesture

of friendshly and good will. CoMr 10, according to dile/l,

enjoys the Gas-Light Club and its attractively dressed (or

undressed, as the case may be) hostesses. It is noted for the

record that Jester Sanchez Originally had had the idea that it

might be possible to use this Gas-Light Mombership in order to put

0₴

& Willing, witting, and attractive soman against (DsSArT/19 to

attempt the type of classic operation.

p. Local employees and Cuban Embassy Parts

(1) AWW/ stated bat@sihm/l9 mas looking for a

secretary the was flaont in frence and spanish, abstart/19

stared that he preferred to hare a loed contract type employee

for this job is

saved the cuban toreroone the additional cost

or pensions, socil security, home leave and crated expenses, etc.

SEGRET

---

## Page 10

- In SESTET

In other words, the Cubans in the interest of economy are prepared

to saerifice a degrce of security. A'WHIP/l stated that 1f we

e had a girl who could handle this assignment, he would be willing to

propose her employment to (rusSift/19. (This we should follow up

soonest).

This lead also was receired by cable according to

subsequent to the undersigned's leaving WH/Cuba.

3. Security

There were no instances of a security nature to be reported.

However, it is the recommendation of the undersigned that the

res case officer/s conduct their meetings with AJNIIIP/1 away from

his office as much as possible. There was no reason to belleve

that any of AMMIP/l's employees have overheard any conversations

in the past, but they probably are well aware that the undersigned

is not alrays calling on AMIIP/l to discuss strictly commercial

matters. Since there may be a change in the complexion of the

AIASI/1 operation and an increased

operational use of ANilp/l

in Europe, it would be well to vary the pattern of meetings with

1MNHIP/1. There

is probably no danger in calling on him at his

office occasionally, but prolonged conversations and too frequent

meetings with the new case officer on the premises should be

avoided.

03

WH/C/FT

SESCET

3/1V

---

