fe CiA- TR-Aq

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202).724~0457

5
‘aw 40"

CIA HAS NO OBJE
December 18, 1997 DECLASSI c ATION ANNO
Mr. John Pereira IN THIS Document CMATION
Chief
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for
Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

Tam writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board’s requests for

additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to

several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of --.----=++--
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be

forthcoming, only tp have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct

a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the

highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request

that they be answered within the next month., We request that the remaining requests

be answered by April.1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

"As identified more fully below, the issues are: CLA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

Boano Memeers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff - Kermit |. Hall « William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson


13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 13

request. Once the formal statement documenting this search and its results is
provided, this request will be complete.

CIAIR27 Security Files for Five Individuals.

The ARRB staff has reviewed Office of Security files for Richard Case Nagel,
Gordon Novel, Jack Ruby, Harold Weisburg, and Walter Sheridan. The entire
files for Gordon Novel, Jack Ruby, and Richard Case Nagel have been designated
assassination records. Portions of the files for Harold Weisberg and Walter
Sheridan will be designated assassination records. The Novel, Ruby, and Nagel
files should be sent to HRG for processing. The Weisberg and Sheridan files
should be sent to HRG for ARRB review.

CIA-IR-28 McCone Files.

In August 1997, the ARRB staff reviewed an index for the files of former DCI
John McCone and identified some files to be reviewed for assassination records.
A meeting should be set up to examine these files.

CIA TR-29 Oswald Lewinter.

In November 1997, CIA provided.a preliminary oral response to whether it has
files on Mr. Oswald Lewinter. CIA should document its findings in writing.
Once formal documentation of the completed searches has been provided, the
request is complete.

CIA-IR-30 Cherepanov Papers.

In the fall of 1963, Paul Garbler, Chief of Station Moscow, copied a series of KGB
papers from the American Department of the KGB’s Second Directorate which
had arrived at the embassy from Aleksandr Cherepanov. The Review Board
requests to review these papers.

CIA-IR-31 Dulles Calendar.

In testimony before the Church Committee on May 4, 1977, Richard Bissell made
reference to the existence of a calendar for former DCI Allen Dulles which would
reflect all of Dulles’ meetings. The Review Board requests the Dulles calendar
for January 1959 through his resignation as DCI on November 29, 1961.


* ‘ FOR OFFICIAL USE‘!ONLY p-

26 September 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson
. “Det /CSI/HRG
VIA: Becky Rant
DDA/IRO
FROM:

Chief, Information Management Branch
Office of Personnel Security

SUBJECT: Records Search Request for the

Assassination Records Review Board
REFERENCE: Lotus Note dated 26 September 1997
ath In response to the referenced request, the Office

of Personnel Security's Management Data Program/Personnel
Security (MDP/PS) database was searched.

2. The searches undertaken were reasonably calculated
to retrieve all responsive documents. Based~upon the
information provided, the following security records were
located. These security records are available for review by
your office after prior written notification.

NAGELL, Richard C. AIN 0 264 170
NOVEL, Gordon D. AIN 0 526 113
RUBY, Jack L. AIN 0 261 219
SHERIDAN, Walter J. AIN 0 101 572
WEISBERG, Harold AIN 0 018 281
3. This memorandum is provided for your information

and appropriate disposition. Plea r
inquiries regarding this matter to at
@0552 }(secure) .

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

2 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO
Lee S. Strickland @ DA
{Mary Lou Cummings?
John F, Pereira
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer
OFFICE: OIM/HRP
SUBJECT: ARRB Requests - Priorities
REFERENCE: ARRB letter dtd 18 Dec 1997, Status of ARRB Request for Additional
Information

I have been advised by the ARRB staff that an updated “Status of Requests” letter will be sent to
the Agency early next week The following requests will be listed as priorities to be completed in
February: -

CIA-14 — Mexico City Station Annual Reports (DO)

CIA-IR-O6 QKENCHANT : (DO)

CIA-IR-08 “Family Jewels" (DCI/RO and DO )
CIA-IR-09 George Bush (DO, DA, DCV/IRO)
CIA-IR-11 Warren Commission Critics (DA, DO)

CIA-IR-27 Security Files for Five Individuals . (DA)
CIA-IR-32 AMWORLD (DO).

| have partial responses to some of these requests; call me if you have questions or need the status of
your response.

Eileen M. Wuikich) @ Do

Becky L. Rant @ DA

Kathryn |. Dyer @ DA (bec: Bonnie K. Hunter-Y-)
Sent on 2 February 1998 at 01:26:47 PM

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


en eb

\OMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

bm the Desk of Frieda P. Omasta

NOTE FOR: (CW. Curtis Chaloner/@ OA

FROM: Frieda P. Omasta

OFFICE: ADAIRO

DATE: 02/06/98 05:26:24 AM

SUBJECT: PRIORITY - CIA-IR-27 - ARRB Request for Security Files on 5 Individuals (DA/IRO No. 14)
Curt:

In response to CIA.IR-27, on 26 September 1997 OPS advised Barry Harrelson (JFK Project Officer) that security recards are available
for review by his office on the following individuals:

NAGELL, Richard C.
NOVEL, Gordon D.
RUBY, Jack L.
‘SHERIDAN, Walter J.
WEISBERG, Harold

Barry has just advised that the files on Nagell, Novel and Ruby have heen identified as Assassination Records. Accordingly, they have
requested that OPS transfer these files to DCUCSWHRG (J. Barry Harrelson} for inclusion in these records, Barry has further advised that
a copy of the documents from each file would be acceptable if OPS prefers.

This is with respect to the files on Walter J. SHERIDAN and Harold WEISBERG. Barry has asked that arrangements be made for these
files to be reviewed by the ARRB to determine which documents in each of these files are Assassination Records. {n light of a short
deadline, it is requested that the arrangements be made early in February. Once documents have been selected, Barry will need copies of
those documents as well.

Please keep Becky and me posted with respect te these requests. Thanks in advance for your assistance. Frieda

ce: Becky L. Rant @ DA

Barry Harrelson @ DCI

(Katie Nala)

‘Sent on G February 1998 at 05:26:24 AM

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

06 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson
DCI/HRG
FROM: {Linda Jd. Stevens)

Chief, Clearance Division
Office of Personnel Security

SUBJECT: Records Search Request
Warren Commission Critics
REFERENCE: CIA-IR-11
als In response to the referenced request, the Office

of Personnel Security's Management Data Program/Personnel
Security (MDP/PS) database was searched.

2. The searches undertaken were reasonably calculated
to retrieve all responsive documents. Based upon the
information provided, the Office of Personnel Security has
located one (1) possible individual who may or may not meet
your requirements outlined in your referenced request.

Epstein, Edward J. AIN 0 488 768,

< There was an impersonal folder regarding a Sylvia
Meagher and a 1968 Ramparts magazine article. This
information was destroyed under the Records Control Schedule
on 01 January 1994. Based upon the limited biographic
information, security records were not located for the
remaining individuals.

4. This memorandum is provided for your information
and appropriate disposition. Please direct any further
inguiries regarding this matter tom. Curtis _Chaloned at

(40552 (secure) .

is ‘Chaloney
for
(Linda gd. ‘Stevens

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


13-00000

oe

JO February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: ([garmet"A-—ECktund |
Chief, Information Management Branch
Office of Personnel Security

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer

SUBJECT: Requested “Mission Statement” re
HRP/ARRB

1. This is in response to your request asking that HRP
provide you with a “mission statement” concerning HRP and
its relationship to the Assassination Records Review Board.
It flows from the fact that the ARRB staff has declared the
OPS files of Nagell, Novel and Ruby to “assassination
records” and our subsequent request that the files or copies
thereof be forwarded to HRP. Also, certain portions of the
files of Walter Sheridan and Harold Weisberg have or will be
declared assassination records.

2. The Historical Review Project (formerly the
Historical Review Group, CSI, DCI) has among its several
projects the responsibility to deal with the presidentially
appointed Assassination Records Review Board and its legal
mandate to find and transfer to the National Archives all
U.S. Government records relating to the Assassination of
President Kennedy. The authority of the ARRB is fairly
broad and includes: the authority to designate
files/documents “assassination records,” to determine if a
particular record or certain information within it must be
released to the Archives or postponed until 2007, and, the
power to issue subpoenas in the pursuit of its assigned
activities.

3. In the instant case, the Board staff has designated
the Nagell, Novel and Ruby security files assassination
records. Copies of them must now be processed by HRP
according to its current guidelines for release/protection
of information and the files released to the Archives. With
respect to the files on Sheridan and Weisberg, further
review by the Board is necessary to designate which, if any,
portions of them are assassination records.

4. I hope that the above fulfills your requirement in
this matter and I look forward to receipt of the files.

J. Barry Harrelson


13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

pav fram: COV 1-82

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

OFFICE: OPS/CD/IMB

DATE: 02/19/98 11:11:47 AM
SUBJECT:

1.(AIUO) Six volumes of the Oswald files were released to HRG/CSI for review and
eventual release to the AARB. Volume V, the missing volume was never found and the conclusion
was that it either never existed and there was a numbering error or that the material from that
volume was incorporated into the other volumes.

2. {AlUO) If we send copies of the files on Nagell, Novel and Ruby to J. Barry Harrelson,
Barry's office will be responsible for determining what may be released to the AARB, and as
appropriate referring third party documents to the originating agency. He will coordinate with us
prior to releasing the files to the AARB.

3. (U} We are waiting for C/OPS concurrence prior to reproducing the files.

ce: ‘Stevens/C- @ DA, Frieda P. Omasta @ DA

Sent on 19 February 1998 at 11:11:47 AM

CONFIDENTIAL


FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

10 April 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:d. Barry Harrelson
CSI/HRG, JFK Project Officer

FROM: Robert F._
DA/OPS/IMB
DATE: 10 April 1998
SUBJECT: Files of Richard C Nagell (0264170) and Jack L.

Rubenstein (0261219)

aH Based on a telephone conversation with Gary Breneman this
date, forwarded herewith is a complete copy of the Nagell file and a
copy of the Rubenstein file minus the newspaper clippings.

2a The original newspaper clippings from the Rubenstein file
are also forwarded herewith with the understanding that your office will
have the clippings copied and either the originals or a copy of the
originals will be returned to this office.

3. This should complete all action on our part relative to the
turnover of files to your office for the AARB and all action relative to
the forwarding of copies of specific documents requested by Michelle
Coombs .

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


weet

18 June 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: Gary M. Breneman, IC

SUBJECT: Completion of ARRB Review of Certain Security
Files

1. The ARRB requested access to certain security files
and the same was granted.

2. Following review of such files, the reviewer,
Michelle Combs, directed that portions of each be copied and
made a part of the JFK assassination records. Further, that
the materials be review for release as soon as possible.

3. This request has been completed and copies of the

selected portions of the security files on the following
individuals have been place in the queue to be processed:

A. Ted Shackley :

B. William M. Kent

C. Harold Weisberg

D. Walter J. Sheridan

E. Gordon Novel

F. Jack L. Rubenstein (aka Jack Ruby)

4. Questions concerning this process should be made to
Barry Harrelson or Gary Breneman.

Gary, eneman


14 August 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM
SUBJECT: CIA-IR-27, Security Files for Five
Individuals

1. This is in response to referent request.

2. This request asked for review of the Office of
Security files on five individuals -- Richard Case Nagell,
Gordon Novel, Jack Ruby, Walter Sheridan and Harold
Weisberg. The entire files on all five individuals were
made available for ARRB staff review. The files of Nagell,
Novel and Ruby and portions of the files on Sheridan and
Weisberg were designated assassination records and put into
the review process for release to the National Archives.

3. ,This concludes the Agency’s action on this request.
If you have any questions, please advise.

"J. Barry Harrelspn

