# 104-10161-10505

## Page 1

104-10161-10505]

29 SEP 78

MS 262

: *

FROM

HDQS

SAC SFFO

SUBJ

SHERMAN, A F

HDQS LA 26 SEP 78

854 621

I SB/JPM

AT MONTEREY & SAN FRAN CA: PROJ EAGLE REQUESTS THAI SFFO

ATTEMPT TO RETRIEVE ANY SENSITIVE DOCUMENIS RE SUBJ ASSOCIATION

WITH AGENCY WHICH WERE IN SUBJ'S POSSESSION AT THE TIME OF

HIS DEATH•

TELEPHONIC CONTACT WAS HAD WITH SUBJ'S SON, ADRIAN SHERMAN,

AGE APPROX 28, ON 27 SEP. SON RESIDING AT FATHER'S APT IN MONTEREY

HAVING ARRIVED IN THAT CITY LATE 27 SEP. SON CONTACTED IN PERSON

EVENING OF 27 SEP & ADVISED HE AWARE HIS FATHER HAD BEEN WORKING

FOR AGENCY. THEREFORE, CONTACT WITH SON WAS UNDER OPEN CREDENTIALS.

SON AT APT WITH TWO OF HIS THREE SISTERS. SON COOPERATIVE &

RELEASED TO S

THOSE DOCUMENTS

ECIDED WERE

SENSITIVE.

PREVIOUSLY BRIEFED BY PROJ EAGLE WHAT TO LOOK

FOR. ONE UNEXPECTED DOCUMENI FOUND ENTITLED CIA-DIARY, A FOUR

PAGE SPECULATION BY SUBJ RE STEPS TO TAKE IF HIGHLY PLACED PERSON,

I.E. PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENI, ETC, DETERMINED TO BE SUBORDINATED.

BAL OF DOCUMENT WERE NOTES ON PERSONS CONTACTED BY SUBJ ON BEHALF

OF PROJ EAGLE & EXPENSE NOTATIONS.

MATERIAL TURNED OVER TO SAN FRANCISCO PROJ EAGLE MORNING 29

SEP•

SUBSEQUENI TO

VISIT WITH SON, SON CALLED HIS FATHERS

CASE OFFICER. CASE OFFICER NEVER MET OR CONTACTED SUBJ OR HIS SON

IN IN TRUE NAME. WHEN CASE OFFICER FOUND SUBJ BODY, HE CALLED RESCUE

---

## Page 2

• SQUAD & POL WHO IN TURN CALLED CORONER. CASE OFFICER NEVER

alone

• IN SUBJ APT ADOVE, CASE OFFICER GAVE CORONER HIS ALIAS BUSINESS

CARD CONSEQUENTLY SON ABLE TO CONTACT CASE OFFICER IN IHIS FASHIO.

INCIDENTALLY, SON STATED TO CASE OFFICER AT THE TIME OF THIS SUB

SEQUENT CONTACT THAT HE UNABLE TO RECALL

NAME.

SON CONTACTED CASE OFFICER TO DETERMINE IF CASE OFFICER HAD

KNOWLEDGE OF MONEY CLIP WITH SIOD BILL IN; A KNIFE MEANINGFUL TO

SON & SUBJ; AND A GOLD PEN & PENCIL SET. CASE OFFICER REPLIED

HE HAD NO KNOWLEDGE. SON STATED HE GOING TO CONTACI POLICE RE THESE

ITEMS HE BELIEVED TO BE MISSING FROM FATHER'S MEAGER ESTATE.

SON ASSURED CASE OFFICER HE'DID NOT SUSPECT HIM, BUT RATHER MEMBERS

OF RESCUE SQUAD. SON ALSO SAID HE REALIZED DELICATE POSITION OF

CASE OFFICER & WOULD MINIMIZE CASE OFFICERS ROLE IN DEATH OF FATHER.

CHIEF, SAN FRANCISCO PROJ EAGLE BELIEVES POSSIBILITY OF FURTHER

INVOLVEMENT OF CASE OFFICER IN MAITER MINIMAL. HE GRATEFULE TO

SPFO SUPPORT.

RUC-RPT DFRD

..".

id indies

---

