# 104-10107-10195

## Page 1

104-10107-10195 -

DANIEL FLORES

---

## Page 2

14-00000

i ..

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

OGC 75-4191

13 November 1975

Personal and Confidential

The Honorable Barnard F. Jennings

Senior Judge, Circuit Court for

Fairfax County

4000 Chain Bridge Road

Fairfax, Virginia 22030

Dear Judge Jennings:

An employee of this Agency who falls within that special category

of employees that members of my office have previously discussed with

you has been summoned for jury duty at Circuit Courtroom $6, Fairfax

County Courthouse, commencing 17 November 1975. It is my understanding

that you believe such employees should not serve on a jury.

The employee is identified by a copy of his jury summons returned

under separate cover and, as previously agreed, we ask that this letter

and the name of the employee not be joined together. Mr. Edmund Cohen

of my office will be pleased to explain the circumstances further if you

desire. He can be reached at the follo..ing number: 351-5648.

We appreciate your efforts on our behalf.

Sincerely,

Johns. Warnin

John S. Warner

General Counsel

OGC: ECohen: aam

Distribution:

Original - Addressee (delivered by courier 11/13/75)

1 JURY DUTY

I - EC signature file

1 - Chrono

NOTE: Per GMBreneman's call to Mrs. Chesty,

Judge Jenning's secretary, Mr. Daniel Flores

has been excused from jury duty. Sandy called

Mr. Flores with this message.

Alyce 11/14/75

III

---

## Page 3

UNCLASSIFIED

ERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONM

MENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Opional)

Daniel Flores

- Jury Summons

FROM:

Frank Stewart

OS/EAB

TO: (Officor designation, room number, cond

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

7720

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE

46275-4023

11/7/75

7 NOV 75

OMMENTS (Number eoch comment lo show from wha

to whom.

vow a line across column after such comment.

OGC

7007-

To 1.

Request OGC action Re

attached.

2.

T.

11.

12.

13.

OS/EAB

4E 33

15.

roan

610 FOrTONS

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

IIZ

---

## Page 4

TO . ::

THRU:

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIAIE

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

DATE

DIRECTOR OF. SECURITY; ATTN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

(Stall, division or office head and security officer, where

assigned)

7 November 1975

Chief LA/COG

PHONE

ROOM NO.

AND BLOG.

FROM:

NAME

AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print

ype)

Daniel Flores

GS-12

COMPONENT

LA/COG

3D5325

7144

DESCRIPTION OF

OUTSIDE

ACTIVITY

WHICH

APPROVAL 15

REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF

ORGANIZATIONS

OR INDIVIDUALS

CONCERNED.

LOCALE.

(Refer to HR 10-y before completing)

On 29 October 1975 I received a summons from the Circuit Court

of Fairfax County, Virginia to serve on jury duty beginning

17 November 1975 for two months.

Request

I am presentl!

Guidance.

32

₴.

REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS

MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED

CIA

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

OR OFFICE HEAD

Can D

SIGNATURE OF RÉQUESTING EMPLOYEE

3. COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF, DIVISION

CONCUR: 11/7/75

міат та

OPERAFING OFFEN

FOR COMPLETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

DATE:

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED, DENIED)

FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

(FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

5079 879 1811545'9

CLASSIFY IS APPROPRIATE

II3

---

## Page 5

mail or vinoir.

TO :

milan min:

win to an orinr of the Circui: Court of Faisle, Comic, Virginia, received on

12202"O 19ES, YOU MI BLABBY SUMYONED TO iNdini ise juay service for the

i beginning at B30 i on the Lulday of Noversar i, in Circuit courtroo

., ¿ul floor, Fairfax County Courthouse, 4000 Chuin draudini, fairfas, la 22usi.

..Liois you may have vili in answered when jou apoit in mut date. If any

:i! piecludes you fron ruporting as directed doori, wiser Call the Clerk of

; office at 691-2227 or 691-2228.

Any correspoidi

mining to this summons

i lie directed to the Chief Circuit Courl Juijo Di din 1 County and not to ¿ne

Picase clock your milenge from your lom. to tin durahouse and be prepared

muside to the Clerk of court your roundtri...

wage dü inbursement purposes.

i:

Fa.

Cilies of

idS Church

---

