104-10063-10150)

py

i
RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only taaceee :
Do Not Reproduce V2oleal dx B

wail
SECRE @21330Z JAN 73 RESTRICTED HANDLING
CITE W141 CKORADE ACTING)

TO: PRIORITY HEADQUARTERS.

MHCURB RYBAT MHCHAOS

1.. TANZANIAN FOREIGN OFFICE HAS CONTACTED DAR EMBASSY WITH :
REPORT THAT TANZANIAN POLICE ARE DETAINING GEORGE LESLIE R Te Ey
AKA GEORGE LORENZO MAT TH Ew S , AKA GEORGE EDWARD WR To HT,
DPOB. 21 fay 1944, BIRMINGHAM ALABAMA.

2. FORNOFF OFFICIAL CLAIMS POLICE PICKED UP SUBJECT ON
UNDETERMINED CHARGE BUT UNDER INTERROGATION HE SIGNED STATEMENT
THAT HE WANTED ON THEFT WARRANT IN U.S., AND ON BASIS THAT
ADMISSION TANGOV MIGHT CONSIDER EXTRADITION IF EMBASSY COULD
IDENTIFY HIM AND WISHED TO PURSUE CASE. THIS IS COMPLETE
REVERSAL OF FORMER TANZANIAN POSITION. HOWEVER, TANZANIAN
OFFICIALS UNSUBSTANTIATED STATEMENT THAT SUBJECT IS MEMBER OF

- BLACK PANTHER PARTY AND WAS INVOLVED IN AIRLINER HI-JACKING TO

ALGERIA SEVERAL MONTHS AGO MAY EXPLAIN THEIR CONSIDERATION OF
SUBJECT AS UNDESIRABLE ALIEN DESPITE REFUGE NORMALLY EXTENDED To
OTHER DISAFFECTED AMERICAN BLACKS.

3. EMBASSY OFFICER PREPARING AIRGRAM WITH DETAILS, STATION

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM
CL BY 059876.

w ;
DvPpoF 713


14-00000

PA ote

dared

o~

12-34
PAGE 2 1141 SECRET

WILL ALSO COVER DEVELOPMENT OF CASE. REQUEST TRACES ON SUBJECT
AND ALIASES AND ANY HQS SUGGEST IONS AS TO WHO SUBJECT MIGHT BE.
Ae a FOR REPORT OF CONCURRENT ATTEMPT
OF ANOTHER BLACK PANTHER coNTACT, CURTIS N. Fo WELL, TO
OBTAIN NEW PASSPORT AT pak EMBASSY. IT NOT KNOWN IF THESE. CASES
ARE CONNECTED BUT POSSIBLE THAT LOCAL HEAT IS ON BPP REPS.

5. NO FILE E2 IMPDET WN-SISM.
SECRET
