# 104-10169-10079

## Page 1

104-10169-10079

!

DISPATCH

SIES-S-T

5=635145

....'a48-

Chief of station, cutro

128 insid -01481 le

# ROM

Chief, HE

SUBJECT ICHARVEST/LUCAS

Traces on David DUBOIS and He Do

Bo 108045

RETRON REQUIREO METE FENCES

3 0160419

Referneo: MICI. 10682, dated 23 May 1961

I. David DUBORS 1s no donbt identlenl with David Grahan MeClints,

(201-271111) born 9 March 1925 1n Senttle, Washington to Shadrach and Shirley

Graham MeCAsS. MeCANS In know to have uned the names David GRAHAM, David

G. McCarms DUBOIS and David DUBOIS, He 10 deveribed an 5 fort lanches tall,

Blonder build, adth a sear over hin right eye and a pock marked face. MeGAANy

muried Clarine Johnson on 1 lay 1949 und ma divorced in Septenber 1952e

2 Rocords on fle indiente that Fecaus has anociated through the yours

with connist donnated os inmptond organtintions such an the loung Progrestives

of Amries, tha Amrican Labor Party and the World Pederation of Denoerstie

Jouth!. In 1950 he attended the lorid Student Congress at Prague, & meeting

In Chine of the Norld Federstion of Demertle louth and the Soviet Annivermary

Celebration in Mason. At the time of HeCliNg? Vialt to Moscon, pro eomnit

and anti-Us1 statemente muro attributed to HeClINS ovar Badto Moseo and in the

"Peoples Chine." In 1952/53 he van reported to have bean a prese operater for

the coumnint organ "Dally Worker."

So In July 1950, MoCAlS us lamed a passport for six monthe travel in

France, Ingland and Suitserland for the purpose of noelal marice tudy. In

1952, his passport vas plated up by ODACh and mun found to contain vimm to

Tance, Crochoslovakin, Sultuerland, An tria and China.

COIT HOE

Matrtbutione

0r18. # 1= Addresses

RETURN TO CIA

Reckground Use 'Onty

Do Not Reprodim

CS COPY

DATE TYPED

GATE DISPAICIED

21 Ostober 1862 ^ 3 NOV 1961

CHEFATCH SYMDOL ANT NUMBER

1100-7448

HEADUUARTERS PILE PUMBER

200272241

"ROUTING" INITIA.

HAN LANC

RI/TY

tit:/3/0h:

CHUN INS

mAh

Tal.

2876

ПРИЯ ВУМИН

190н.0н 0 нAM8

CHICANA

are 23

it dect

RV/EL

MID1W1?

HAIL

8 NUr 1466

110)

4b0.1

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SpiritT

1S0H-7443

In 1959 MeCarns anplied for and received a second passport for three

montha tourist travel l Ahiland and France. MeCANS failed to anmar questiona

in his application as to mother ho was then or had ever been a sander of the

Communist Party. In Detaiser 1959 ODENNY lorned that MCAiS vas enrolled in

Pelding Univarsity and had been there since Sepuember 195% ODENTY further

loarned that AcCANNS planed to study in Peking for three years and then remain

In China to work.

5o During an internier on 12 September 1957 by QUENVI, MeCANNS vas anked

If he had ever been & anuber of the CP to which he replied Mit is none of your

burdness." In anner to a further question as to whether he conaddered the

CP to be a subversivo arganisation, MeCANNS repliod "I consider the CP to be

the same an ary other pallelcal party and 1t is none of your busdnesa 11 I

have ever belonged to it,* MeCANNS refused to anser any further question

and terrinated the interrier.

o During an Iaterule on 10 November 1960 with Mecarist mother,

Mrs. No l. B. DUBOIS, the latter stated that MeGANS was DO longer realding 1.

Peiring but was unemployed and touring France.

To The statemat in paragraph 1 of reference that his idlers first nano

1n Shirley 19 porribly Ineorreet, Ingench sa all reordo ou hand indicate that

the name of MeCANNge nother man Shirley Graham HeCANNS, uho married a

Dro W. I. Bo DUBOIS In Fearuary 1958. II MCCANNS has married nomeone by the

mn of Shirley 1t 10 nal reflected by any documente on hand at this tine.

8e Dro N. I. Bo DUDDIS, step-father of MCCANS, 1s wall leone to ODENVI

and his commist affIliations are vell substantiated by nunerous documents.

Mrs. Shirley Graham MeCANAS DUBOLS almo has a long record of ansociation ith

coumniet organisatican anl has ben identified as a comnist in & nmber

os documents.

%o for your Infarntion, ODINTT has requested that ve report on a

contiming banis any infarmation ve iny obtain concerning MeCANtS! notivities

while abroad. Plesse pouen Headquarters any further ju ornation you may have

aeguised on MeCANIS for tramminalon to ODENVI.

RS

COTT F. BOSEDEAN

Defens

PAGE NO

120

vas parvove sorten.

CONTINUEs

---

