# 104-10052-10276

## Page 1

1104-0052-10276]

SECUST/ BAPCK

Chief oi Station, Moxico City

• 78 Livialon (Chiel)

Rovier of LITTAT HAd LINTYOY Projects by XUTUBE/OPS

1.

aitor his recent visit to your station.

valzable sugeestions Iron the dest.

It has been read with interest by

senior KUBANX officers who think the uper 1llustrates the sasentials

of good tap operations.

The stress. of the paper 1e on intelligence

collection, but some mention had to be made of operational leads and

1/cs injoration, otherise me sould have had only a martial picture

ni une operations.

Ke vill appreciate any connents or corrections you

visa to sato.

LApression.

Je tant to present the tive lacts and couvey tie right

lavin, paid this tribute to honenty, ve vill sunit having

separtod Iron the facts ln a lew Instances, ia the Interest of sinpli

Licaidon..

One was the question of mels and transeripts; and reels

*lore (pages 17, 32 and 42); ve did not vish to confuse the render with

thia distiaction.

Ibe otber was the collection and diatrition si

wools and trasslations, which ls senewhat sore couples than tra

boRdEre described 17

tho test; sa profered sot to 115* losing the

zader and Durgoitea 11 1408e doublo an tiple vinghace lorratloss

unocited jy Robert 3. LICGS and Jerauy %. HIARCOS 03 I3e1Z 78Y tO WOrE

in the sorning and sonotines during the try.

There are a les points on shich we vare not sure, lor instance

to Star? account of sue station's atrength siren on pages n47.

in tolt that such in account was necessary once the resder had an

idea

•1 cho size of too operatiors ard the anount oi sort livolzed; althout

rich an iccount he night have assured that the station in question vas

and of dot very largest.

¿bore is nis0 2e guestion ol te esaci

craposition of toe intercent center-s the start, and sow.

II Lacre

is anythlag sissing (or not accurately described) tart rould celo obser

marions to laprove their oin oparation at this key point, to tould

anie very asch to pat at ipe

(continued)

Distribtion:

032-

0s3, Mexico c1t3

SORR 22220

CZCRET/RA20K

Fice

• 30 Decenber 1343

150-8-75/3

50-332/1

lu/d

03%°

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ESCRST/KAPOK

102N 12720

Fleally,

there

nas the question of the polish 11mas,

on widea

are systliJiag.

Tho 1900 Project Berml request mentions

LITE SOR' desire to cover those as voll an the other two idle realt

quent correspondence ouits all

sention of Polish 11203.

Did be really

meatles

the Polish target?

bon did te nante to get out of 1t?

The toogh problem, of course, vill be to sanitize the papes

The essence of the message 1s

that so much cas be done, and son all, by relatively few people,

proviied these ler people have the right artile and musticient drive..

no night out all references to latin America, the Spanisa liguage,

and Cuban ense officers; no nigit even thror in 1 few sislending pirases

1lke "the fanaray Cabrn target.

Fe certainly rould aot vast the

location to ba rocognized ercurt by persons alrendy familiar with the

operations.

No will be guided by yow wishes in tals and other aspects

of the paper.

Oliver G. GALBOND

y PV

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ZASOLO AND IRJOITE

THO JELEPIONS TAP OPERATIONS

---

## Page 4

14-00000

TABLE OF CORSIES

IVERODUCTION, SO COMPLEMIRARE OPERATIONS

PAPT I: DEVELOFARIE OP TIE TWO OPERATIONE

PART II:. MIS CUISILE DISTALIATIONS

PART ITI: STATICH'S LEE CL TAP IT'CENATION

CECINBIONS

3

16

32

49

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SODUCTIOR: TUO COMPIDASTIARY OPERATICA

Ta statlen dons not sbara the viderprend belles that telephon

tapa are Decasariy DogE producers of porttire iatelligance, sheneres

" Blation officer laure of o ten ogeration that produces Istese dietend.

nelle Information, des tapitablo coment e 7o0 bal serie roteled

ed information alp taras thair flage The station' experlenco

ultà tuo tap operatione explatas ita attitudo.

ROME

a e otello that bot i good producet ar poettime

Inta ligeneo da vell da Operational lends and CH/CS information.

.buring

480/8.38

ita portod of martin developent this operation bad 23 Ilnes and

produced scon 140 aiasanations per roar. Mira Jours ago the station

set sp a non tap operation

P618

operation bocaso artented primarily tonarda Intolligence production.

Puring tho juat tuo years 1t has uniatained 30 activa 21208 and

producad sone 255 diszestraticos per Juar; 11a roporting dis bera craio

sted ai "istilid, aod of bigo quality and subatantial guaztity, "

Sarera: 11n0s tapped by thel

had boon the nost productiva

oparation bas been main-

rained, sithout the bookidea of the local goverment, but le bes bacone

orientad privarliy tomirds targata or (I/0S Interesti at the soge tai

1ta overall coreryes has tean reduces, sad 1a recent jearg 1i bas air-

aised jetuada 12 and 1S Iana, Bodar tolso elrcunatancos, tho Intali1-

nevertheless, 1t sas renained a respactablo producer, ista sa averesa urlejai

li 10e se 191t10r8 per yoar. Di story of than tro coplessatery

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Isp operations 1usseaie that such operaticus can be directed primarily

tovards Intoiligesco collection or tovarde the acquisition of CJ/E

Information and operationai leads; it aiso shove that any good ter

operailor 1s bound to produce bota positive and CT/CE Latorsaiion, 10

valus descent according to the vay the operatton la lanted te

Intal Itpence product la there, but it bas to be rucoired and satrected

Iroa the crore The followlas account of the dore lopment and present

vorkings of the flatton atro tas operations will brine out the priact-

pal factors that contribute to thelr productivity.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

285000

PART 1. DEVELOPUBIT OF TES INO OFERATICES

beals

To the S operation, vaich yo

will cal

of the

to the fortet abel is Cool and polite a on

7240050

Leader of the local confat Parad commist front organizatton

prob lens of coloptone capa, and espectally that of handling the raw

beta, Dui progrose ked been steady, and the prodactive years vare

cust aboed, a (95) Roo produced 19 postine and 6 assaina.

Micca; sia Orbit country duels judged the operational inforaation-o1

tala tep operation to be the best me had anner 1(195) 1e produced

09 263-6904808

So positive sod ? i disasairasion Nod 10(195055 produced 141 pos1-

tive totelliance diazemnetions: Ill coverase had been expanded to

Include

and raptos conniat expatflates

is racer at of one of coon, on as canad buser car

the

exceLler

vas BiBo oMised by loadquarters for Its tianly pollor-up al oparations

The target lines noy ambered a3 sore vers deven lacente

---

## Page 8

14-00000

posta locates near the intercept points, vito a Listening post operator

and an coolstant in such one to do tibe sonitoring. The soviet and

Satellita texo una trentlated by contrect agenta.. Tan atation bad

„lane to ald sour or five sore lines, bat expansion case to the for

oper 2:

---

## Page 9

14-00000

In the sall of lass

approached the Cuter of Station for Bastatance) in betting up ard

runtas a telephase-tap operattos agednet rangela of interest to

then

and)ee ABARK.

hoverst

did not vant to vort

38 30 OPPO

telephone coverte

bereticial to KUBARK and ODYCKE

tags were installed 1a 1959

ty arrangesent or the

unity, not only to expend the ste

tut site to develo

with a

sitting

seas: 1104rd 1702 40

Latersest inter by underered cade. The saline mait it he laters

cept center cocuisted of one l

Jas charga, a vatchman janitor,

and!

who did the nontiering and transcribizg.

representatite.

13,070

---

## Page 10

14-00000

tate

After one sea- of operation tbe Chief of Station reported that

_strial veer. ci

vil call the new

culties

eodhere:

serted of aajor

on bad. had so get anotber

the

not pertor tag ter

n direct contacti

nca theity

idthdrawn

rabecause

problend y

natances,

atton a ch--to-job trasatag prosras for

was not

as effective as bad beer expected.

major probion, per sod the chiet of statios, "Ilas la the complote

reilance placed as tina by the uraiced satire stalf for

profesBloDal aNd teconical direction of the project, and while the

ciently periorod, to satire stall has been unabie to far, 1135

sparadio excites; to Becompay those remulta vith the all-importan:

Bairele for intelligent

taroratica, collation for compilation al

Janiatul coperatie reports, ard keeser targett=g-"

There ve

tare 17, toe 31-laps raas olement inat mies tha 111foresce borees

ten and are tet perely runa smothy fat iconalt

do anytatas Io- ua. It vas not easy to imparo toe atattoo's barde

Er Sea Can

core: kapire, acquired from its expertence inca ZESOLO, to the

rar Focain of tRubINa, but the aliticultios of tia frat yoar von

---

## Page 11

14-00000

Jew months later unother state agent amived at the station to

on its operation-i

se bad both operatoral expectence and 500)

technical backgrou

Ius year before it bad helped thatall, the

28.5001

11bed by the local people be had con

In ear

the Do, do under to meeting

the egal mon

the records koeping in the

and goberedly

niters.

sexploita

A DANDE 220025's second your the later or surica

hat seesos to be sociated vith ita production and vich the works of

tos monitors: the operation produced 165 positive interligeace

sas auring tes entra and fourth feet It produced

275 and 255 2isseainaticas.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

Bronze better latel lance Foduces tona 2a5010 ge was,

wetter pease chan it ever could be. Mady of our

erattona bave been.

to set started bat bore discult to

von that rareed.

the, past

based on genuine canetty of laterest,

pastonia

Or IRIODIT be denonstrated

along

te apring as (oss)

Cront targate,

Cos warch nad best largeus at Lascro. a Sume

090

(1960

thea

xpandes, on the initistlyerse (s

..) to 11

the Soviet estassy am the Grech legationne Addi-

Konal 2115 1970

absequently added, resever the intercept center

dat judged apable: of

Dies more traffic es the present tize,

there are 30 110e8 19

*pive are on Sortet targets,, three

• on the

A, co tre on the clach Jesation, Phre

ETA CEL

are ca local

.:C.

^39

29025

and torrectly so her

zap8

ma. Cares

A De

Ised

10/TV

---

## Page 13

14-00000

appocents on the lini regios and the Pres world; tay vere son

ta be wed to furtbertes perronal politiesl interesta by uncovertro

se inionation on the privata lures of loval political espo-

santa.

nerve:

been a aisagreesent

operation ectoring to choice of tarat s

---

## Page 14

14-00000

There 1y soother aspect of out reia lausbip vits the

Lo the oratica that 15 a lecter La 168 exece25.

had been receiving reports derivec fros a tele

abons-tap oper

tion run by

aad they

know that tots

not the product they wanted:

I contarsations wire bot secorded

i coald de no cance

the live nonsterines in tha bards at in

petticient ud corivy

chnace test. the

21508 4990854

betence of conversation var colored sad dietarted, marentlony

en by lesten. " That is why

assed ten Chlot of

Station to hol, then ast to and satatali a good intercept center, and

Kept

In this

operatico ve do not

34280281, 525%

t1ons, with a modus operanil and a modus nos 099ra011, that ral socater

tO KUBARK and OSYCKE osjectires... He vare spared the tug ol vei toat

sonatices occura roon the tap installation 1a 1a good working order

He de sct

and

dead w1th

reapio who are avane it the existence ai tbi intercont canter today

... S

---

## Page 15

14-00000

hare maser to thies that they did the rigar thing

an operation that glyes then, Iittle

by Life and day by day, an insigat lato de intentions and plaus os

ons ans Cops 2080114

Jad to arena. Every noring

14 202:

and the color of Statica hare on thair deake

a tro to room pase copy al the bidilete er te provous day li taks.

Tor a sack of the

tapas to sea 1t

tharg an sther Co

that ha had novaz been so

wilyitered on am antlar evont.. me chlet of Statdon dolly marks

•No are cose de the prorion day'e bigallate vith boded inatructions

to raparts and cass asticars ca potate of spectel importance or on!

min le bas sortel pulod, Bili laterest at the too, da bott

sides, fives scood apark to the intorest a all the others vho are

engaged 15 the ceration

---

## Page 16

14-0.0000

It

operationo to preservetlon of KuzAll intareate sa got.

aly a battar of orsical acresent but adio, and samations more

213,

one at dally covera la tse actual ruming os tone operatices.

tha monitories stass ested to find out at can time verther our san

could ho aIoned out; be cola sia that he vas bejas varvatiled sod

....

shoula stsy aray fres ths intarcept contat for a fer weake, but sha

are sificer ropiled that ta could not do tir except es ardara fos

tha Color al Statica, and ths: mai the end of the satcor. is siation

ariared the rur fort of rusting in Istira tat cut of tha operation;

a 829111e08 aod inrestlestive unit and bera crested, rias tas firet

23 lisi9 inexiled, to follow " leada sesarstsd by the, operation,

but U1n9 other sallar wite named by satires and subsidied by

2251°

KUAAAK 1t u1a Jus finction, sal 1t vas taminatel eftos cre yoar.. Tha

staston oren succeeded la setitus up a spacial prezerve of sto son

operstic. Wira tha

Rited for covar

age of the sortet and crech lastallations, the Cler De Stiles apressd

Da seat in Esciquarters for trendiation and that any ltree ei Interast

•cult to jused back to the station, uhich vouid trade shes to our

---

## Page 17

14-00000

To furla and serge taja de Mool, of course,

havo rena transaced by the suse persons do sed transaced those de

WeLD. Tie stras be pration shout too vento during vassa do ca

epit aperational reis by lasels, mca ise ona suverliasce end

taves: case aaa5. To so station vishes to pesa a certale ler

or possible action or that part, it dea do

so unter four er five dago by sillas a leedguarters

cable

THE 45, 43

I a'ourtain

cau or arent regaires

Stare traned alon at toe translated take so

rar as inderseite pertod, la expiapation sires ll eat e Headquarters

sia has been sent on The to the nation for dot pune, y

inde arrangement the statico has kapt coneral of the forterup of

22.

operscosal leads derived fres the Soret Jrbit Ipesl

Tols arTergerent vaLid a1ao maka 1e

osater to resine corerage of those lines by the

operatie

12-20077 arould be tamiratos.

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Dice sisabiliant of the

S, the Sories and Croch offscial ineraliscione ant of ione local

CominsAt and connet prot tarets, I02 and chat lica e

operation was thea atructed

Con CoW, . : 3094

76-322

sore intanaively coarte largete sod speratione Vico tae satan

Tops vere piaced

2290

vas places on ice hona lire o a auspertos Sorlet ageat; ad seat

ture ver placed, pelnartiy lo support di nole coortiana, do tho

hores = latti-lorican extles io are posting agáleet de ars-

oriors governa of thetr arantrles. and of course, dre sape erginat

POPRIE, Smunte espatristes lare quite properio pesciard vlia tire

_operattos: Isal: total coverosa las bees rincod-

chere sre lê activo loes at the pradere tisarone abane are cecan

alcasi 1: 2ra00 dus to tia short-era coverage of cargeta se

'ortanti, us decressas due to tra "enorary eugpecaica cê som

Lices decaner di security basuris. Ino reduced operation, hovaver,

TENUITE,

---

## Page 19

14-00000

as to coraltian sita dent a productire ariston es labor torrees

prospects. Aid the

operaticn did not placs a lary suppor

àerdon upon the stations plate peesuse of so caretardias vart se

unt satire sau1s0r1as state as the Intercept coataro

se described is the course of lue soltoring description or te later-

esps tastailations as ZuorT ind ISOLo.

3271

---

## Page 20

14-00000

FARC I

TE QUESI TESTALLAIIONS

Yon cen't eisest nuch free the people of this country: tiey'ra

cassino, Intolent, a

and co an, Such garralizatioes bave

12oJo18 tha ase venne Io la localito o station nuo

probally not serve pata tha peraliation, and corsitaly t would

2ot appio 1t to the dativo nonitorias state, dui station arescera

consected vita te ceratioa sey trabato to the renartble adh

dovelopad by tos nonstora ad to the liga qualsty of thode vork.

Jadr nost ralsable still 1o their ability to renove most of the

inte fran the tete at the my soarca, ln replayo of the tapeo,

¿ibor icino such lI ssythlag of tha valusbia subatance: tea sajor

Istalltianco product of the tetercept cantes 1s a datly seport of the

ingata ci the take. De arareso leag: of tho report 1a adout

sare pegge e sistie asced taping. Bipiticant conversatio

sp501 la coronai ical er 95, tità tir tues sudicated la tie sarzia.

andátaca tarta, The sost produetlva liuza for this report ara trase

a Spanian-spesties cargots, dut sauro se occestonsi Iture fra

0u1t 19000 wass Conversations una hold 1o Spandeh.

an aberosising the except the dan ane kapt at the interept

"raser o sei no tro, lor potaiola checkina et certada concerettera,

uni sher erasadi the kighligata repors, the scara, la die onty product

¿sceivoi della by the starion irca troe- liera. Tue tako traa tha

---

## Page 21

14-00000

sortat, czech, suppelar, and duban Ilona 1a hardled 1s she fallers

sater, sue ayantra portions are tranecried sod calabrataá to lie

•gela; notationa aro made la tha traserifte at pointa viars conver-

nations are 1a sunsion (ta 1200), czech, or sarpion; and the reele

Lad transcripta dro transitted evary norning to tee station case

offeer reaponithle for alcuEr. Bren in these transcripta the

To practice of havens the rontors pencre

44/A0-365"

•Pest ee the take magsablo and thereione wable.

• We may lose an

cocoone, tea or detail of value la tada vay, it we would loco

such sons 1s to nor at intoration sot oat at costrai, 1s backlege

Is unread tegge acculated and the product wellert to sot avay.

---

## Page 22

14-00000

The cossiderablo diacratico exaretsed by the nootrora is sorites

162%

out tha take was sot granted thes at the atart or as day ons Eleer trey

scores it eradually a pois ernesing connetance showed

tart thay

1400

2293058

vere resiy for more,

recoired proctical co ta-Jes reintes tras

KiA, and dee cantag as especial ente

itar the

year,

seen the cut ence featin as sustain

mercapt conter Ta she last lou year

they

bare

mtructier us nich, beles ruMolestly guided by scation quartes

details of conversations,

Lalcatfor

of station Interest 1n

• 297

telopions correspendente, to shoved up to the trutio

Our

Case

cer at the coster me Breatly alded in his test of whippiag its

staff

tato chase oy the superior aptitude ce on aca

•ONE TEA

to

bo the best of the lot--who sacred

maracle ability for 1501

It la he who prepare

mily bag lights rport.

he has becora the chief sonitor and affice

anton o the Interapt coater, directly subortinate to te cortisas

1a charge. His sledge of Boglida patro kir ali de sore

Table

to sa, becsuse se deperd langely co him is leap. toe orber

aest to our taisresta and priad for toula jobs. The moatsors bare

secome so sensitina to our neede tiet la the hat fe an a

=en Taver and fear odocus men It as mcéssary to press their

encorings agalrat the rain, and sinoss all Sia poaltiTo Laceilizence

G7:11

---

## Page 23

14-00000

derived fros the oparailos has been rasan fron their dully lies.

Lights reports. "Thay

Orn detees Bigniticant ogeratoont leads;

vales they radiately bong to the attention of the case cretees

• 5*

the

santor, and ho so tara celia the statio-

---

## Page 24

14-00000

Ia che course of thae the nonitore hum segatred the specta!

aele al processional cavo

edroppers. They inge the valces or tha

Pet eto e or tot poquent correspodente e lage o

in tose reparte ton partiouler Latuatmente decente e un taor

alare, They grasp the different weslags of intonatione und

they record

tay tere

Tearly

La tene by nase as targat persca, by nasde of thele pincipel

contacts, and by teleptione muters called by target peisons, le addi

¿Son to tuo beoso caraologio Pile el te uki sor each tarant tre.

Iuls handy reterence yaten mablea the sonitora to idenuiry proglo

and sappia their fili pescana voli so to fader che probable velar

of conversatione tu the lieht ol past convertation betunes cor

fina 106. The highllebte reporte dnd the transortato era addenco,

by thele aype

mayo destro prua ome

se legnes

tatloa ls orderly and colloro a certala forat, valco maina the recorte

---

## Page 25

14-00000

santer t› uner the spies le me: and ersourts are

text seidon ecorates nist

cakes, and then shey are alsos

despite the prescure

of:

Ly deadlies

to not what makas

Coattasty on the jou han door an important fastor in the borate

9375

Son poure anyco of the original monttors bar lefti ta vas

replaced and an astra handler was alted, bit it took ass tie water,

and good caching tron the others, lor auch of there the neratie

to posta to march the perfanence or too chartes sembers. me Calar

"ot Station had, st tha very start, impressed ipoa the local sponsors

et the operatiar the deed to bate good suitory aud to keep then on

receire thel:

rey and is addition steak aus

claires sos wach one a suptentary salary siroportiate to she

lee of lie work at the dentor. Dut arciber incentive thed fees

1S719

equally sportant lo the satisfaction that the

31420674

apparatly derire fro their work, now that they bayn becond exporta

55722

at 1t- Tiny are constantly betay reainied de tie taportarce er toeir

1038011: 151-984

and He -

static, thou ts the product of their work. decanee of the outoresding

vors at thens acattons and the excellent workdas relatleashly they sure

vith our cRee orcicer st the cenzer, the strangerant aste site the

la sa valid today is 1l saa at tha start:

no, mara is, bocause it 13 cox 2i'iy rooted le the day--o-dsy

---

## Page 26

14-00000

nsatie

16

coacerned, 1

the equi

-Sob

8ood

tect as

vell as Timess

der. to

picke ip the promone ders blenteh

ande the over to bla station

ends at 10 o'rject

the

1708

the 11ret,

VieD

the lest Iters

ents reporty and the transerlyt

0E toring

asd 1500 to 2300

the day; chec

o orarlepping shirto, 0800 to I600

DuE Jan in lo sad out co the cente

repairag equipsent taside, or

cutside.

How that the scotern

rat las become so co

his prtacigal single tust by tai

prent

05

she

certalat

Isr a techniedan of tsutr cir ves conid

mpst- ircker-down equitment, birt

they would have dinauicy sirileg

a villiso to chaes mach uit turoughiy dote a scats is ender.

Re ejulpent contita ce 32 mosta, and 30 cf

tres are is operation avery day; ose ca each target lira.

, Fact

---

## Page 27

14-00000

dis: recorder

Inches

#a Apper tol tage

J. 49

sto by sido goa 16

tries to.da

secan to porad

18g

A doo that taken about tone bours; be

the 16 radha each moath.

post parts of the mete coo a mee no

a road, seven days a veck for fire ars and altheng

a vora no rul be replaced rithis this axe year, it sill stren

good reception There bie never bees & problem of poor recepties in

the course of this operation

---

## Page 28

14-00000

ma cose arricer bus the cover of a technicai acriser on electri

so lease coy mpanus cluisen who gown to the incorney:

castor regularity to Motor of Station occasiotly droos la to

Bucrat lock-ae,

an a rectoder ot yupt's interest and equity in

toe ogertson it ore tos a leadquarters aritar, e soner statiot

per who kurtle miy round, ald tom live monitoring at the conte

le spot of la condon at press agnes sent in ten too

cases at oorson scenty, scene to ta pended has been cented,

antine people at the latercept canter to kory thesr koriodge to them

sires. Da face that translator vory not placed aloenide the sont-

tors; for the fake of convociense, may ligo bage bolped; the codire

sad galaza or taraiga lockdes persons vould probebly bare awe@ *

curtonity la the beletormor, and their delasa vitata the centar would

have tinted dhe sonaten to talk about tues at boat and it tints

Side nice

Jelande, Tara save been to muter liedenter bot the least trica

tons of danger have been taken tato gocounte

Bre Intercept conter

wea wish alter its firat near of operatses because it vas zorated

Per ties effice or one of the

Scree

2277227225

tine syo sue son vere observed vatchias to present vite Pro

the street. Plans vare rade inadiataly for snotker sore, set sr the

tina a new aite vas found, the prospect of

---

## Page 29

14-00000

e atara or tha permitos le doubt, and the ste

anting the cuteone befor

cecting was stay

tha, burges persons are Cancerad, they ayrotably.

probably directed at

---

## Page 30

14-00000

tc

poet by

tO

4.40313

ten cause th

atatton, to rauve

has weeks or toning. later wien

it appeart

terrat yur in which the atation say so

-B2246

alerted to danger. ^ The

scratst at the start o

Laporatino lo soverines able to provide advance notice be

vart to do dond bear then totarcept potata on the lines. Is seditics,

are Sa an

e horab toe operators of tre various

target mous emerday to see it there

8429-02

01: 1

520 314

arrival by to

In advana

tattoo's sour

•i Informatior

---

## Page 31

14-000.00

des, of couras,

coes este do d

mut through several tear

dens

clang bad aiready,

3.10

lest

thet

alter s

voald bo

caranted:

by the

of

pat on seatt

azem rasar 190s teledens

alucovered don of the troitens do the crech lazalton lei tapa da

was able to sdve

mourance tanto » laser that thore mild tel

The caps vere respetalled ase by cre and by the ent of the

ses de singioso copa e soal lo o escola o moreias

vori reen the

post for that terres te

TaEs

140.28

rep eced

335

"cople ted:

---

## Page 32

14-00000

A*

tites

the telephora coroany is engazed 1z a

Federut

part of which consista in replacing sor ola

20 2:

overhead telephose w

69%

Ledergroun

Secretores of

one and Pibile Jor

ying to rind

ot moratos to son perdoe to zer conet, and ta eu

eu entaon e segoria, sond bale de verer

SALAS

the year mon the linos of forner aére

best cosed sere orard linss ans elenced and kept clean of super

Tuoas vira-

masra to the lintentes posta será exposed thas before. Ali these

sacarity prodios, nut ai present, leve boen reserted consely une

1n dotali by the station. sunEst rearted at iso last revios of

DESai that "tão atation is to ba congratulated for iti tira ico of

caping wis these problene do the coce up und to cente tate oran

tion as productire noi secura

88. $t

---

## Page 33

14-00000

Too operators of the listentas porta tave been trained to nest

ois altuatione that orali resalt in esporare fat lone ego tro

May peola case to stenins sous that bad end tap runtas

10tg Ots they veated:

Me an anie to aband me sell, be co 100

Ints the sight

barde he Lady was not married, helental hat

dad dan't rate eny noise

your, boote

don't knoek over thia ald vest c g

• she En

Freei the premiaos, and they quickly left the house, probably clad

bet st was all orer, The or mis pat co agala, but the letena

post was noved to anothur houre. "Of course, no sout of lagunait

Is lady just pot osed its it her lever, the rege of frontest

tara figure turo, Matering paste ens la the loses of voll-sc

ronni propo, with soul clitres around the house; tie

doris, or to so door facto ste daee

he or too late the apartas of as all cousie vose

130s 145 pusis aisly puta thes above nupisson; their advenced

---

## Page 34

14-00000

alry

SO AMA LA

no setta

mhot

pera, come in a far coas

---

## Page 35

14-00000

Despite it chreical dispenter, z9soro has been

men tight

songstence i

and toetr

1950

Somer seri

FACE

spent

1953 techc

ma of the listening posta ta

840:

or for the whote eperation

Arent, but a ten and toot of e

petah sod Follas and con subaritata for regular fonitors and truns

Latora. To Croct traneteter lar been a too doo atuce the instalation

of the Pret crech loo la 155%e to sontract asanta who operate

Iletentna posts and do translarsona sova bees Mith the operatica Meco

1954. In thore so tha al Meld agents connected with the opera-

i a telephone ras operatioa depende la laves purs on our ebullty ro

iney ta place those persons

Who have deralee.

gd0k1311

aud

a certain seat for

1001.

Dida

0L7E. 100

pade in corection

sie scaltore Et

the

cantar, but 1t

disperson paircato es la oration to 13010,

voo

nore: to

207;

placed tries one rome and lear the bustess

other

AMENS

Fort: "a"": thara 1e Planty of longarity In

---

## Page 36

14-00000

PARI ITI. SZATICI'S DEL LE DUP IEFORMATICH

saline sto product al the tra top operations la the rimes

orioi of tea de so las seation, sut sovere statos deicera dave

opete for busine tre e esser entros to tenet conve

pico un to centerto protuot of se previous dey the bighi cito

, and e teste la curan, lodel, och, e Neoclay lange

Love La the statton proper tha le rasposeible for ZEJOuT. Mos

nel crencer, la ure, extrages le sapes le De tranelatod, la tro

coontre cus bicapo, or tue tayes passed una prertous day nod

beto transiatico, Anche rano timo, the scatton coes difte

monacata for 2300 proda verata operaiono pronipal cuole

are Lakaly to be require tris tino to dare Sce ol the tramlatore

and arthosch tete regular vene o perenale ete

sottos to traislalos trous clagle ingurgo, stay socatures bave

do NoTa ca Lato in scotter legion cecause the resuler tranelator

---

## Page 37

14-00000

v2) an

anandas runs to the stess of the dar beczuse ot

22/372

shey and toot outaide contacts ats th

Contact 1

mehns each

nre 1ay

unsintfos

i the hands or the

station, and the

Sh to to translated

yats curly poraina doo o

he the stationle

Bad

---

## Page 38

14-00000

a eretten ld moed ln proparins intonntion reporta tor tran

lea to

maitz. ot

aa tartera 3o

ntghitghte

ưont tors ch the

ol t arti

cuich nore

Chtet ot statton snd

Cho

E cectoue dus vorkoa 45l

minsseranet

ceraftirat go orat tha highitighta

porta do fosdquasters Artar tea

ta for adaltionel dosalis or item

t appears Le the transeriyto or

olsob, and nisodiey 1

mii broceat

LOng OPRICaT Retiey tirei

BS HaDe,

sooal Malt fras tes Colet de

itó as ttam dn mectel lesorta

* zapo

Ialocns

Lessened by hautting dalt.

fr="s1

Ktevslio up.l sotabe

203t0r

epart officera

that

421790400 4 908 909-1211914

11S1077

-196-2222

---

## Page 39

14-00000

Bu?

mlatea tIts

usd pissed

at

and

set saide

1124

later on,

Yany dies

tested manora aro

made.

tions beard couse dane or sur

censive dave they may elso ta

sued on the product of dis

bury penning, their bust nove: to recoguize the ligniticans of esca

agent a traded, end to ma do varton pepenta toretter,

not as they as reund one ie Kisas-anide fron the fact that they

must not appear to be corted tras latercepta, but in a regort?

that 111l mabe senze to the rescer: close are the becal stills

se reports officers uno vork on the pratact el talephone capst te

chai gentle sa deant fer detalls bo say have overtooked in bir

120 640

porting on ta may elect has to acquir adition intomation

In ander a fall a the cape ta pronions reare Pat rans

Iles do sot accept aller ap recrecente

Ime closest me ear same

1s such, borever, mat one can do to prese the belicance ele

tea con over the linen: la erdor to ville a carate tet sexper

reporta for tha renders. A fire comoraation on a sin line would

1a7297

¡robably 1432

a de to to best quarted reports one be s

---

## Page 40

14-00000

Te of come inser dates to do come goodne to to co

tell e story, cact new conversation adding to mat lo already bron

and

* Бе

alice on meaning itself fran previous ones.

Lid the monitors,

AE273

reporta officera rout reach the potat where they feel that to

Pe

20%

They peed

3 2221 too. 27k

intinate. Koot

ng of is 100

up, to date on

Of the two:

roduct aft

cos balf rears, and the other

tors, they have developed

---

## Page 41

14-00000

the

relativa

ery as the verdos inse as bothe

Zebor

rost acti

most one sure on the

a Loader.

aac

the can pot sent cone the other hard, me poor produce:

Fore 1s sa intarasting conbination of offlos and hung Iten that

chose an interestine productso tacord. re condiots of co line li

the sesaquarions of an anti-cores, pro cuban orgalzation that bes

stanstro support a fantical ed atallet aries to lea

199 9

In tre bore of sta mutates lest, a forsor President of the costryi

Pur: " Co Colora!

so tire in the boss of the titater bed of the digantation, da de

acraira.mase fira Linaa produced over 35% Ct

ports

Die caption

в порат

26257. F00E

miative inture of telepaces-tap

reparting:

archineer mag

prescipal meera el the argentatia en leterand, A Mel De

soported la fragranto frea diffemat lions on the same or insecendino

dage, but she couposive stetur aires a luirly complete ides as viat

---

## Page 42

14-00000

1 or ate inter lationstip a lose antone, bette

so rake up for the fragne

atary satang of taleshore tap israsan

tica, met la, provided he sedividual Lose do Prodace ta frag.

anto, be lot of to obe pretent adore or the oratie

have produced very Litates Altogether the

incuss anato pear, sate content bets to sorors

and

opera escort to

Let the manias of untolding events,-0s.

dial it it coca

a to run same the vale latelligence celo,

and our customer heve often expressed the need for a cosmine

bees nick long offer l operanties fos were colone

ne modacture of the peration la resent mars der bess carec

torted by serel tallat occaston tartagest on soon.

1100 or ot

During the part your, the plana and actions ee a

into maricen extir to lad tying to drun conso at ta gora-

sant de his country vero the eulject of cue ot resolala dissendaatad

73.

reports. When thn doines and covents a paris od props belina

do 1s'east re lave la certale lines, the stasion's pureillance

---

## Page 43

14-00000

Laformation

despite ea

pert or n

The scuredne of all ten station's telegiona tap repar

as outatus, taras it clear to the initiated sor

ample bottis te

rpiection

Zone and seals and to

Into a pore products rite a to or erony liane

Probatis

advintage:

pins detes lines of hos Lined She role of

armity

Dirty to trace too area of ta produat,

station to bare ta targues a tyros

138Y

122602

35

a whole

• to

stay

ALterent

ares and to estinate the probable productivity el projected

operatiors.

---

## Page 44

14-00000

valen the Calet

don expeste

not of bie casti

•deficers in tit

kledge of Spanish.

MY. PAULIN

Snet of

The Sortet!

ogarutsonal reports,

order

th

that vint

free tros sistert

123 be went later:

ar it also keeps la sto ortotel state,

arratellas, the tart of thous trous tha

¡station's atticori prefer to save i0 254

rance tist teeir loforustlod bas not been

subsent to utatiter

ration by traneletora no; longer expert and

conscientious toy mile, are not sons lar rita the backered

na ponstity or tiestine to putta, can penet

sarbian sarco i till tapes ommot be anodeed. bot la order to radios

2.220ca, 2506

cho 503313111ty tha translater ane pot alloved the discretton ae

the beastors at the ledercens cesar, dory ane popular lo uraniacs

ato., cord of the tete

Is one langues And then ta t

corar: Used be e cocaideratio eperastoral and y/es Istersec e

---

## Page 45

14-00000

text

Had Di

Cred

ap turav out, to bave, operati

---

## Page 46

14-00000

svery suring the station's two cuba case offucers go aror

tis trusserteta fron too cuna itses af both operatione; tor sa

one cericer emmost the tangerines and manation sa tie

cond bury ned to el one person does ones a pre

nod contain me to patra loner soro do hele

in be zeron, as to each lonel both me cas asser!

100k Primary for or operations leads, but try elto do statia

stase tor noting out or that all be retatond ad that winese

caron any be sa caro cerior satiates that about 30s de the

taks is supt and goes into case files; the reat is thrown eray.

the saja object of tara coltation of inforsation, dram from al

ar accera to tarset persous and lodications of possibia suscepti-

Busty to dovelogoat and recrustent. The case flive Identis

various acquaintences of each target persos, the nature, requency,

ená doord of toriano or their relationhis nia bia, are these

general pressportione tovanto his and soverte conces, la se

narauses the pratica 1s 1p touch vite these exquelatences, and

= idas of the target person's placo la the embassy of logatios,

mity, hi slation with tis ourior and solangues,

---

## Page 47

14-00000

and sometized bie personal weakassed and problems

"Abore x31,"

smarts the f3 officar the Interation derived from to telephon

cape save rei a feel no the kind of tea to target person d

Apons you have sier hot hear All infaration coarfdered tae-

hit to son to the Cito of Station bator i sons tato the case

sues, an be ofren found it to the case offten concerned vich

thi

operations and can fire ise cara officers use

gat dens

step:

---

## Page 48

14-00000

retaction of the

atation's one spara-

My ReTO a came a pession

tợ:

Spot

passed orely, the station trate ca te

we to one on will osy see.

sotten, and gur men at tha intercept center sandiately pesses ste

intoration to the acation. Sons of these urgent osses bave Laveived

Tarine celes no sot la touch vile officials of hostie courtres.

Que ToPIa Tonior or counce eruaction tried to make the var co

442.700

Courset Caton vith the bein of the Curan escastyl hia call, vas

Interrences, ta COPIe and CrETVa repacectatives vaze soticted,

and be was recured to PaPRIME, Lone or tena esper require tradiate

SuT81312000 - 18 518pe3

coot surretlissa du aayone at auy tiar; the surreillars are deliciant.

and unia page ate cue sores pureline teas len var argaszed

mes zwoltpious Into being, and which bad to bo diacanded arter one

rear The mascal

rent surveillance teen were espectail o

i durias the past year ln detersizing the rec fleas and astoas

manent of his country ta coricurly suspecied Dar ke

• Jets an

---

## Page 49

14-00000

as belog watched nut tinteses to, processy se

being diracend s=

a At

the

this, he bood doc

using a trangeceities

code

fos; the

Fine and Fas

be discused

suppor tara.

But

vare able to

We Borerente

nod:

---

## Page 50

14-00000

Ine roader Will probeby, tave rossrked long 380, and gaite

property, that luca excessive coopoo-tap coverage do 46 150es

la nos donirasta sor my stations. Pure 1a the costion or dia

station's

rength:

al'ite abtlity to explolt

actively

Base, or Latolligence and orational laroratio acquired from

no repo. Mere 1o Bao do question of wet Malosuy, a

cargo statio vent cat i strength in le extended le ase

coverago a conson and interal are to targets of allege nee

or productinity. The foregoing discusion as 1asoL0 and 2201M

bas fives intiantions of the variaty and inportance of the targets.

Tara are local Commiat and Communist Stoot Leaders sho are tryies

to replaco sta prevent govormant dy ose hostile to anYcks. ¿ Deere

are Intin ADeTiCal aXlIes ubo aro plotting to oversaros tea pro-corone

overments ef thair on countrles.

There la the all-laportant Cabar

target, valch bas turned out to be very productivo, There are the

PRIS Carmala: expatriates, a targat a groat intorest so 00377.

Manlly, there are the representatims of the us and the Suropea

Sarolite, vo are varies for the sovereica a Mul latta Merica,

70680674207

and not caly the sountry here ticay are stationed tauo, the a

aratica's 46 target lines are directod at a vide vartety of 100ai,

a matron is oce of sodie

-259H

2150o. Is additica to tina cnter ol Station and bla deputy, there

---

## Page 51

14-00000

are eleven case ofstora (tuelnding theme lINOL? otricer, to

09396209%

to intellie an arous, and as Dotarpher.

other

the station give administratim or clerical

sta 4100.

se, prodact of the tape to eatind a part each de by all

as range in a

trous fart tre to other, but as intervoven thes soot or to

station's vert.

4222

---

## Page 52

14-00000

1*0

of the station'" two tap operationa Is reflected

4997242

The progras of zwour for the

in thair operati

past three

vities rapo

These, roper

dispatabes

o1 about three pegas aranged in the collaring sequence of eletti

a or on dutie to oats, 2:

"tho: out

& producides, a Ilet al the latomation reparta sent by cable as

dIspatch to Beadyarot The see besdinga alvays appear, in than

some order; so that there la littla Ilkellhood that an important

sancer has been everlociad. The regular reportine of LaSaLa cennot

te pu Into sach a tidy package.. It covera 1n great detall the to

mojocto that are of treatest importasce 1s an independent operation

istanded primarily to produce CI/(3 Inforantion end eperational Isada:

5158t, ise security problems, present or antielpated, and the sassured

planed or redes by the station; second, the follos us of openettare

Loedo by statica officers, and the une pade di significant Items ot

c1/C 1atomatlon 113

arting or the operational progress ot

Do two operations deeps the dead orescens vill nored on battors

ol datal noi enablos the to prasent as accurste becomt of those

operations ve required to do so by ten approvtas autorities.

lad

If course, these authorities are satisfied wits she conduct and

progress a? LESOLO ard ZEJOIN

---

## Page 53

14-00000

SOMET

COSCIUSIONS

The sart lactora toat enter Into tha succese of a telephore t

19042

operatic akoad to apparent frea the foregoing account or I8soro and

TaJOLT: the sata ones vill be brtarty soted belov

Spentonce To extract a valsably Intelligeace produet froas

the mes of e guired specie ears. Te to not portet an

the fall as tan concon, so mot separate the veral tras the chare

over os too-rapta rotation is disastrous.

1609024

Ja. Stayius on tog. The value at the product depends on quick

asins asd tra28a1e010a, frei monitors to case officers, to spare

officers, ta Beadqua-tara.

Il there ls a bottleroc arubere, tae

veale proceds boss dom. Startes on top to essential, becklogs are

catal. Is takes that extra ounce of effort to are on top, but vita

troy cost dea of to a large vete hour mine, at as

S. alson, contetap mention has an he comminity

of operational interent have a chance af success Pala comatty ar

ana nai can pe araged by the choice de target Unes, by fune

recens to the presises (lovever rearicted for valid operationat

509), and best ol all by the eature and punity of the prodies.

Volat top operatton sould not desonerato teto a battle of

*or both sidas obliviona or the equity of tos otber

s the upper hard.

---

## Page 54

14-00000

acon the teatorts

ayal

elophone tape depend for the nette.

veral people, and to no electin, are of

vost of several otsere. there are bany toda

It to not e

no de tea did to recessary to

tensort of all the partlespante must be.

non and toven tato the station a vort

1 fat pensable. When the operation

in joint core tano all the station chiece nuttend prescie

to establton maar A guity in it at the file ta to matra it

intact caruchant to course of the operation.

---

