# 104-10096-10121

## Page 1

104-10096-10121

SECRET

LA/COG/235-77

NEMORANDUN TOR:

Benson Grayson

SA/ ADDO

SUBJECT

George V. Lauder

Deputy Chief, Latin America Division

SLHORIZON-1 Report Mentioning Cuban

Minister-Counsellor Statement on the

Assassination of President Kennedy

REFERENCE

22950 (IN 416072)

b. New York Daily News Article, dated

20 September 1977

Reference: A ZRWAHOO intelligence report, mentioned

that the Minister Counsellor (MC of

the Cuban Embassy in

Kingston, Jamaica addressed the regular monthly meeting of the

Communist Party of Cuba

members assigned

to Jamaica on 24 Sep-

tember 1977.

The MC said,

such as FNU DIAZ LAN

and

among other things, that Cuban exiles

others

had been. involved in the

assassination of President John F. Kennedy. The MC did not

further elaborate.

2.

Latin America Division believes that the basis for

the MC's statement was, probably, an article which appeared in

the New York Daily News on 20 September 1977.

This article,

which is attached, quoted Maritza LORENz as saying she, Orlando

BOSCH, Frank STURGIS, Pedro DIAZ Lanz, two unnamed Cuban exile

brothers

and Lee Harvey OSWALD formed

assassination squad

which

went to Dallas to

assassinate President Kennedy.

We know

of no

information in Agency files to substantiate that state-

ment.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CI. BY 012034

---

## Page 2

SACRET

3.

There have been various articles in the past alleging

that Ms. LORENZ was a CIA agent.

There is no official file on

Ms. LORENz, nor is there any information indicating that

she

was an agent or employee of this Agency.

we have asked Station

to obtain more

information on the MC's statement and source, if possible.

We will prepare memoranda for the FBl, the Inspector General,

and the Otfice of the Legislative Counsel concerning this case

The memorandum to the OLC will be for passage to

the House select Committee on Assassinations.

George V. Lauder

• Attachment: a/s

DDO/C/LA/COG/CIOS:HSpeed:js (1325) (29 Sept 77)

Distribution:

- Addressee

) - LA/COG/Chrono

2 - C/LAD

1 - Originator

- IG Staff (Scott Breckinridge

1 - Hold

2

SECRET.

---

