# 104-10217-10074

## Page 1

- 104-10217-10074

18R6B

SEC

PERSONAL RECORO QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

TRUCTIOES TO CASE OFFICLE

•e oposopriotо onlãs

199 10

1861

D1 SPATEN

EXH A 6225

@l "ão deel susalablo dn.

mooetions

ioedllallo ll posodllo, and em (88 c00.

•Al mllaronmal spnco soqulted

€КУРТОВТИ

APCALL1

SECTION

COBTACT AND DEVELOPHERT

.

INDICATA MOO, IMRO, DUIDE. ONY. ANO BT 1NSU SUBJICT DAS FINSI COOTO-TEO ЗA

Douglas jo FREAPANE was introduced to Subject in February 1959 by AMOLRETTE-9

In Havana to provide FRIAFANE vith firat-band Inforsation concerning the post

revolutionay high level labor astivities and to aid In the development of

Project ANCAlla

INDICATA OHEINER SUDJEET

COULO NE PUAATO DUER OLIOAST ANO IN A SEGURE DANHLA TO ANY DISSDOSIDLR CASE OTFICCA

808

MAd Dá l #6.

18 BO. INDICATE TO TNON.

Subject can be turned over to another lase Offleer guickly and in a secure

manner providing he bears credentlals of sichippiß and i8 able te speak

Spanisbe

Ideally, the case officer should be introduced to subjoct by

AYOURETTE %

•BEEA BRORA CASE OFPACCAS DUO MATE MANDEED SUAITES OR ONDO NE EADAS OR MAS EROVAO. GIGE DANES DN PNION THEY MAVE

FREAPANE belleves that sereral Case Officers have handled A'CAIi-1 ln the past,

one of which nay have been fent GALIPCOS, but IPPAPANE isn't mure on thie

point because no records seen to eriat corering the subject.

1omt s:

ileos 200-2758444804

---

## Page 2

SECTICH

SECRET

NOTIVATIOR ARE CORT

Spaco. De

*an & de

Subject's notivation la tied up in his religious convictions.

He ta a trained,

militant Roman Catholle whose repeated, outspoken pronouncemente against

Commisa in the Cuban Intos sovement are a matter of recordo

WHAT CONTaOL.

OVER THE SURVECR. (Al no comteel. os il there

Control of ANCAll 1 1e through ANOURSTTE"9 who has bean his "spiritual advisor

for many Jours• FRAPANE has teen able to build up some additional contral on

the basis of personal friendabife Because Subject has been long accustomed

to entrene poverty, money 15 liselesa as a control factor.

SECTION 111

COVER

COVER USEO DY BUBJECT AND CASE DEFICER IN UNEIA MEETINGS.

The Case Officer noets with Subject as a representative of JHCLIPPER.

Y. COVER USEO DY SUBJECE IN OSTAINIAS NIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING NIS INFORMATS.

Not applicable at present

D. INDICATE SERVICE FOR NICH SURGET THIMKS ME (Kill Dorh) (l= vortine).

JHCLIPPER

SECTION 1V

INTELLIGEACE CONMECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPIRIO SUBJICT•S ANONA PAST OR PRESENT COCTICTION MITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGEACE SAVICE, INDICATE THE EXTENT

SUCH CONMECTION IS ANDEN OVERTLY.

Not applicable.

A- LIS8 OTNEE INDIVIDUAL? (ALeRTO, POlARiNER, lODONdO) NO ANON OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTCLLICRACE ACTIVITIES.

AMOURETTE 9, AMOUREFTE-11 and ANCALI? MOON Of ANALL-l's relationship with

JHCLIPPER®

=- EXPLAIN ANY TRAIMING SUBJECT HAS MAD IN CLANCESTINE OPERATIONS.

Hone.

However, Subject worked in clandestine agitation and propaganda work

against President SATISTA for two years before being captured and extled.

SECTION V

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

" ASSOCATE ONSE FOREIO PORER SUBJECT DOULD BE MOSE LINELY TO COALAOORATE BITH DECAUSE OF MIS IOROLOGY OR PAST

The Vatican, If this Ia considered a foraign power, because of the fact that

Subject la a militant Catholie.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SECT 100 NỊ

OPERATICOA

- CONTACT

SUMARES MOS DILO USCO OR CONTACISO ESTORE, INDICATE ACTIVATE 10S

GAS BURNISARD.

SubJect has heed in a lo on pet, Conde the at Labor movement

and has provided information on politely

INDICATE MON AND BACH MION SUBJECT DETAINS INFORMATIO.

Subject has many friendships anong labor leaders, workers and people in the loves

econonde classes as vell as frienda in revolutionary political cireles.

no iriend in the Comnist Party Information Iron these ITiends 18 obtaine

brough erdinary conversation

INDICATE UNAT MAS BEIR TOLO SUBJECT AS 1O

THE DISPOSITION DS INTOPOAIION MN OLENESNES.

Information given FREAPANE by Subject 1a ostensibly sent to MCLIPPIR in PBPRIM:

vie a courier system.

DEYALL SUBJECT'S

TIDE USE ON DUTIES.

S, DETAIL BUBJECT-S PROPOSEO PR-PA TYPE USE ON DUTIES.

Subject in currently being used to prepare propaganda and in the organisation and

activation of the AlCAll organization.

Subject, under certain circustances, night be used in subversive activities

againat the Cuban goverent in the flalds of labor agitation and propaganda.

SECTION VII

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

ORTAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSCO AALISA TYRE SONTASI DO OPERALIOMAL ISS:

A. THERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF & YOMEIEN GONENMEN!!

Not applicable

8. THERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MENDER OF AN ODYOKE AGENCY.

Not applicable

SECTION VIDI

AGENCY PELATIONSMIP WITH SUBJECT

"PERSON NATURE TO SUNSE RELATIONINIE BITH SURVECTO P.R, TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER DENNERATION, 1E DOYE AGENCY

Subject is paid a salary of $200,00 a month, ostensibly by JiCITPPER.

SECRÈT

---

## Page 4

SECTIGE IX

INDICATE SPEC

FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

OILS ASIO

SECRET

QUALIFICATIONS FOR GINER OPERATIONS

AGILITIES, TALENTS, ON CUALITIGATIINO POSSESSIO MY SUBJECT MNICH COULO CONCEIVARLY DE OF VALUE

Subject 1la an excellent all-around propagandist and orator.

SECTION

CONNI THE TS

IT IS PROPOSES TO PAY BUBJECT A REGULAN SALARY.

INDICATE THE DERALY AIDUE.

COSMODITIES, SUBSIDE ON OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

MADE 8M ENCHANGI

Subject receives a salary of $200.00 a nanth.

OTHERNISE NOT COVERED MEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (ESAUDIO: Com

None.

SECTION XI

CE AND SECURITY

• INDICATE THE FIELO AGENCIES AND FIELO SIDES MITH INIE SUBECT'S MANE HAS DEEN CHEEXED AND THE RESULTS.

Local aYORk with negative tracea.

INDICATE OTHER INVESTEGATIVE MEASUHIS TAREA TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL IGFORNATION PUERISHEO BY SUBJECT.

INDICATE THETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OFERATIGNAL AP.

4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINCO

PROYAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIQUELY OBTAINEO.

No

SO EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER.

REL

BILITY RAD SECURITY, CITISE EVIDENCE MIERE POSSIBLE.

Subject is very frank and has proved more reliable than any other agent handled

by FREAPANE in Cuba. Security has been good if for no other reason than the

fact that Subject would be endangered 11 his relations with JYCLIPPER were

revealed. Subject has demonstrated extreme courage on various occasions,

disregarding censure by the CASTRO and BATISTA goverments, the Coumnisto, ete.

#- ESPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETIDN IN SHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED SMICH NUST BE EVALUATED FROM A

CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIESPOINT.

Although Subject was once refused a visa fram ODACID and was insulted by Serafino

RONUALDI, he actively worked for the establishrent of good relations between the

CIC and ORIT and has frequently spoken in favor of "people's capitalion" as

pronoted by 9u101ase

SECTION X11

1. USE OF LIQUOR, DRUGSI CANBINE. PARMOURS.

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

one®

• 1!

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECR

SECTION XIAT

AYOCATIONAL

UNRESTS

B• INDICATE SUOJECT'S NORMIES ON INTEREST IN SPORTS.

Avocational Intereste uninow.

SECTION XIV

GENERAL

INDICATE UNETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTNEI CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS ME COULO PASS AS A NATIVE

OF A COUNTRY ON RECIDE OTHER THAN NIS ON.

EXPLAIN.

Subject speaks good enough Spanish that he might pass as a laborer or middle class

type from any Latin American sation.

INDICATE NETHER INFORMATION

IN PHO PARTS A ANO 11 WAS ONTAINLO DY DESCANCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT. FILES.

COBDESPONDENCE ON OTHER MEAAS.

Information has been obtained by clandestine assessment, press files and conversationa

with Subject and other agents.

Personal data has been hard to obtain because Subject

hardly ever refers to his rather tragle fanily history and because of very infrequent

contacts.

" tee puta."

•THAN, "OUTINE SETION IS REQUIREO, IF AND THEM TERMIMATION OF SERUEET IS EI

TECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN. (AlES

SECTION XY

DHERGENCY COMDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGENENTS

1O GIVE FULL DETAILS B.E, RECOGHITION SIGNALS, SINI INERE COULD CONTACT DE MADES MAT DORA FIDES COULD IMDIVIOUAL

BARRING CONTACT USEY

Contact in an emergency should be made through AYOiRETTE 9, or be could be approached

Le the Banco Continental of through other menbers of the Catholie hierarchy.

letter of introduction Iron J'CLTPPER would be sufficient bona fido.

SECTION KYI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

3 Dis

DATE

I April 1960

i - SECRETS

201-275848

---

