# 104-10216-10097

## Page 1

104-10216-10097

SECRET

& one 1010

Iro Dolo Dodillo

Ac: 13: Uirector, Baforue ont start

Oilio of luin:lonal irevio

To 13.19031 of Caserce

149177

(Maa) Ashinoly or Aslilrakle

Filos 110l10 dif Sul

soar lisa lodallos

lo In re:ly do your lo!ter of loril Bo 10'0, ne baro no laformation'

et cho proscat sins concorila tro liport and e nat ai sula berince

tErou à l'axico ce 0198 Jouil inariern countion, Toronto to Ilil

nio etery a torps to cinoi tito the salling ciné u1l1 no:lis jol de

noon an any lafora-tlon la roooived ly tila droneyo

In the sortias, te folluttar inforation say so of luteron

T: oo.rect Pollah mollire, of the ume ATTTTY sould De

Ailia do

lo-omr, dire tile le m usand cons of a

Polich none, 1t la gil'e li:oly lit 1t ray 3e a nulod

perpion af Jliri lo (A p'ioso,10 ejollla, de Sile sould

Aordina ci-liou oi iolicia deserte

In i asila-ton du perroril ancroting lo Usees Iii, tra

forn iblish la an-ruor to tie lulled stries di: lI

alle sily sinted lint sa a revelt of lucos tarlieroo, he

ditaiad ino arolunime riit of inortin: blich 1-- 191

voila foe die plution In dio Leited 1111080 la 1547.

aloid roport dly nule a trir to iolando

In allitlose a ro vit on the loriens cano con rose,

publinhed la ano 1019 le tha comitioo as DAntio

sotivition, liatod the no af barone dail li.d os a

19enс 1950

100.8-6-p-13

201-41581

---

## Page 2

SECRET

abor al tho pollu doleration al the hersora al

ongree

Very truly jorre.:

BО D8$6008

Prepared bye JD -Ful/Poland

a suno 1950

Based One

1=3847

88 March 1047

SECRET

100

---

## Page 3

Lo The folloring

reg'out was too

from theDepartoont of Commeroes

Our roply to Connorce vaL

a felleve:

3. In addition to the abovo.

the Solloving Information, maanutte thich

Comerce, 1e min subnittoi for your lator ation aslys

• Bocent Information received fron Tal Inalcated tbat

Eugene JASISKI belongs to enveral Pelleh cosmunlal-tront

organtration in the Valled Staton: that ho 1a la touch

with Pollch manufactorere

that

ho reportedly

Itary

Intelligence

Sorried.

Im

•= bohalf

•f the

Warsaw

Ceverement,

18

18 1250611-08 7 ANSA

ATASCOA

If these ball-bearingo are sold In some Soull American Country and

ohipped to an Irenecurtain country. It 1o ment Istoly that shoy will

and De transported

on Polioh chipe touchiag the varieue

South Anerican perto.

100-8-6-141181

---

## Page 4

sit

5, air

Dept. of Commerce

6

Apr. 50 (wash.)

Le. rus Davidson, Complain

Irving

complainam

=/310-JWP

23-51

State Dept. (cross-ref)

(no date)

Re: Davidson, I. Irving

---

