# 104-10107-10131

## Page 1

104-10107-10131

PEL STARAT DISSEVEALON

i SOVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

GROUP!/

EXCLUUED FROM AUTO

(When Filled In)

DOWNGRADING ANG

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

YES

Dino

7

5

10

CLASSIFY

TO

FILE NO.

; 8Y:-

AT: -

DISSEM BY-

50 PEn

ACTION

CWH 8

SoP "109

X•REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIO CRET. TO

BRANCH O

DESTROY SIG.

iNFO:

RID COPY

FILE. VR. DDP C/CL

790

SECRET 202340Z FEB

-69

CITE

77.75

DIRECIOR

21-26

20M0 69 1N98004

CHIEF WOMUSE VIA CHIEF, WH

REF: ASSW>2742

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orily

Do Not Reproduce

RYBAT

1o COS INTERVIEWED LUIS ENRIQUE GUTIERREZ 20 FEB.

HE

WAS COOPERATIVE AND GAVE BACKGROUND DETAILS OF HIS ASSOCIATION

WITH ITK IN.

REMEMBERS ITKIN WELL BUT DOES NOT REMEMBER EVER

0) H

•RECEIVING A LETTER OF INTRODUCTION FROM ITKIN TO A PHILIP

HARBIN OR MEETING A PERSON BY THAI NAME. WAS GIVEN PHYSICAL

DESCRIPTION OF HARBINO HE WILL CHECK NAME CARDS IN HIS POSSESSION

AND FURTHER PROBE HIS MEMORYO GUTIERREZ TO BE CONTACTED AGAIN

i:

24 FEBO

20 GUTIERREZ WHILE AI SALVADORAN CONSULATE IN NYC 49-52,,

MET WITH LAWYERS WHO HAD OFFICE IN SAXN BUILDING (278 BROADWAY)

ITKIN

AND

FTHR

• WHOM UCKIN WORKEDO LAWYERS OCCASIONALLY ENGAGED IN

INTERNATIONAL CASES. IHEY ASKED GUTIERREZ QUESTIONS IN REFERENCE

•TO THEIR LA CASES AND ASKED FOR HELP. IN SEVERAL CASES INVQVING

SALVADORANS. GUTIERREZ GOT TO KNOW ITKIN WELL IHROUGH LAW FIRM

134

AND THROUGH IIKIN'S INTERESI IN A ROSA MORALES, NOW MRS. PADILLA

nET

---

## Page 2

PERCONTU MT NOTIFIED

1.is

ADVANCE COPY

BY:.

DISSEM BY-

ACTION

intl

ISSUED

SLOTTED

AT:.

-PER

RID COPY

-suit it.

GROUP I

EXCLUDEN FROM AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

OOWNGRADING AND

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: I YES O NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.-

FILE RIO CRET. TO

INFO:

FILE. VR.

LUINÜ ANN/OR INITiALS - SEEN BY

8

9

10

BRANCH D

DESTROY SIG

71-26

PAGE

7775 SECRET

LIVING IN SAL SALVADOR, WHO WORKED AI THE SALVADORAN CONSULATE.

30 GUIIERREZ WENT IO NYU, RECEIVID MA IN S1 ON IHESIS

TO DO WITH PROBLEMS CAUSED BY. SYNIHETIC PRODUCIS TO THÉ

INTERNATIONAL TRADE OF UNDERDEVELOPED COUNTRIES." IHESIS

TOUCHED ON

SALVADOR BUT DEALI WITH OTHER LA COUNIRIES AS

WELLo

QUE LENREZ REMEMBERS TALKING IO LIKIN ABOUI HIS

THESIS BUT DOES NOT RECALL WHETHER HE GAVE HIM A COPY.

4o GUTIERREZ CLAIMS HE WAS NOT IN CONSTANT CORRESPONDENCE

WITH ITKIN AFTER LEAVING NYCO. THEY USUALLY EX CHANGED

CHRISTMAS CARDS. IN 1961, GUTIERREZ WROTE TO ITKIN ASKING

FOR NAMES OF AMERICAN FIRMS HE MIGHI BE ABLE TO REPRESENI

IN EL SALVADOR. DID NOT. HEAR FROM ITKIN UNTIL 1962, WHEN HE

RECEIVED LETTER FROM SPAINS ON LETTERHEAD OF AN ENGLISH FIRM.

HE ALSO REMEMBERS WRITING TO IIKIN IN

1465 OR 66, AGAIN IN

REFERENCE TO BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES BUT DOES NOT RECALL

GETTING AN ANSWER.

So MEMO OF CONVERSATION FOLLOWS BY POUCH.

6o INDEX: GUTIERREZ NO FILE.

SECRET

SECRET

---

