r0d-10217-10014

18 Haven 1948 i:

TAL

PELORAIDUY FOX Tite ASSISTLST DI pers:
Ce OM SiC, Oba Tes Cae Fe

. “team rise
Subject: Loo Yehuvin MOE, with aliases Leo Ye Chertok ast
4 leo Ve Chortak
i daa pa aaa

Je Turavant to your aral rej.
attached, for the Dirretar, a mem
Prepared Ly tho Feleral trea uf Saver 6
ef the above Suulividunl, te
G0 traces,

2. Whore posible, the pertuent
CHERTOK huve boen briefly icuntt fee
and for tho Inforuation and a2.

SEQUNT
OJ aS DALY —



a

2.0 Pursuant to Peer re

Fesvlts of tis 4h
@ review of 212 G0
Rentionod blow a3 boli:
for your infomation,

In Cetoder 1912 th:
CHRERIOX based

had been shi,
this tnete:

rd to hin at.

on inforratioa raceivml to

ate
cunt felled te reflect nay Jae i renen

hee.
An contacs tite

fe hla, sus

Mig be

iO waren ty

ae Cc ay

Feb WL bade «
he

City, is bora 92

Nobel itef-r-

tr

tn vt

fate az

ritton of

ad reflect,
Aster and



OF Bovey }:
Erne sate of ceaant
Eat tine win roster»
aront.

curing

oi acne
fet 5 ary tn close

104 Of ¢:

FAT yy, Bteoover STK, it 571d ba
el cothoa by the

Sect of an 5
Forth nop

1S 49 natce

2 to ruflect
42 Glos? hy ths

tdratlon
Terked Ye

of cng

era VENt tot the
OVEOS dmisn,
pl

freqeatzy
Tracts Coy

ietewrt,
atis te

Vy énete it}
Gore eetivty,
ho Lrnse,

Lor,
Liz Mo ae lerab tuates
Bia “csp roLorned ty an tthe

Saber $4
2 fae ay MOTbed as ay POU Fe $y hae
Foving Foret 3 Ieistery wad vio 19 Ine, to

tena for naay young,

40 a remot of tho re.
ascortii.es thit
that he had Just,

monsaing of the ty

on Saag 25, 1675 wote te Carlen
Tosmod 2

Fin the proced:
Bent the gc je:

2 to Fenen,
Rerotsations wit’
Is Sovtot ox.

Zt saa alee ascertasig:
CILRTOX wan £1

Kew York office of the Ful that,
Reted, 46 the

tuner the rm.
Ivlivicwd wie
tik,

f
g
i:

i
|

{
|
eet

a
ay}
Cisse t


Soviet etcacy ime thy “1
faot to fur

: Ex
or bls ubwbewat ent ats it had
AS ANIL aie wet.

x nga Jt Yan_alco ascortatied at thie tie
KGLOl te Serie’ Reacuy La ceahoa
of the Chats Tes ¢:
Corporst: es for A woratte.
‘ASta dacire te eaw Co
World sar If,

ih Cs, ncvirel he eX
2A td Cortnct tia d ters Ime

fearet

ef tha

VF maa bie Leatet
p for tha onitter ef “a ectoasive NATE
tarad fy aceetc: et the |

the PML fa ecustaaly kona un 4.

onions x
Vouti sation of xitick,

Ca Voreh 19, 18:6 20K
of the oviet Goverment ty
Dua, 19
A.ITSod by the veyie
tant reper

Mafectos WL ter sere
nitive in the (Be of the cas

ae

Xb waa cub seqrently ecaortained wily da 3oN4 wat bf

aad reenter of the Linc of asrestern af +

fe bied prowlecedy bert 9 je 2 7
ot Rod bowie Lb eo attact with cesed acy
Comm tener ta Lar tarts Cn Yarct 53, dhe tlie
Bovlet ufstesals cones Ma wsplle tien fata viga te
Unions

O1 Cobotor Ty Hi OS PAC amen. testa.

ae. GH ta: bas © the
Hal Jubetit wnee reuse Eaywadt ile bot ns ey met Lat: be the
Soelet Eales aa matusid of ton wnetleaint iue 4 ph srw ben katy tele de
dasa ent MA CDod Mires som. IT Mn tata tet te
Rate that

. 15 Warsaw eath Cont
2 Ye Coy phone nupler Kati ecd Usch, «rich da ie

fos CAly
ah Lagten,

tel te tee “atte

cutlony geo Say Met he Py falled tp encdesh
Wa on aod in Sowlet oxpin thea wat

wben dag Dy ULI.

A comote review hag toon mute af te 150 flow cone
Tho only pertinont adlitianl &foratian ¢
tion procextty bain: ennintad by Cl oF

above, bus substenticwed ais atrealesion +

Mug GHD T8E,

TEL x.

-3- [4

t
3

