id izat-otes]

Biv Ne.

OES

Ta Reply, Deore fas to

‘nus 2 3. 54

Miami, Florida: -

@. Prank Fiorini; |

‘Fred Frank Fiorini Ch,

Frank Attila, . Gr ale a

Fred Attila,. ramen: ee

_ Frank. Campbell:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA.

NEUTRALITY MATTERS :
BACKGROUND

ree was born as FRANK FIORINI, ‘on December
9, 1924 in.Norfolk, Virginia, His. father, ANGELO FIORINI,
“and his mother MARY, divorced. When his mother remarried,
subject became known aS FRANK ANTHONY ‘STURGIS, assuming ~
,the last name of his step-father. He spent his youth in
“Both Norfolk and Philadelphia, Pennsylydaia. He served in
the United-States Marine Corps from October 5, 1942 to
October. 23, 1945, He is commonly known as FRANK FIORINI.

In Norfolk ha worked as a cab driver, clerk and
as tavern manager. ‘ :

Between 1947 and 1956, according to records of
the Identification. Division, Norfolk Police Department,
he was arrested on four separate charges. On April 9, 1947

SECRET

Group I
Bxcluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

gs cory



he was fined $25 for having whiskey in hie ‘cab. On

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS”
SECRET

October 25, 1949 a charge for violation of Section;-4455.-
Virginia. State -Code was dismissed, On July, 3,°1950 a
chargé: for aggravated aasault.on hia wife was dis-
missed, and on May 10, 1956 he was arrested. for living

a8 man and wife with JUANITA K, TERRELL, and was fined
$100. 5

His former wife, JUANITA STURGIS, of Norfolk,
Virginia, advised on February 11, 1959 thae when PIORINI
left Norfolk in February, 1958 for Miami, he-had worked
@ check kiting schema in order to get exough money to.
go to Cuba and that he would‘not likely return to Norfolk
because he waa in trouble with the local law enforcement
officials in Norfolk. :

wl * PIORINI subsequently divorced JUANITA STURCIS and
he is now married to the former JANET MANN, who was re-
portedly a former atrip-teaser, They reside at 2515 N.W,
122nd 8treet, Miami, :

. “As of May, 1964, FIORINI was manager of the
Courteoug Motora, 13701 N.W. 27th Avenue, Miami. He has
held a varicty of temporary ‘jobs while living in the
Miami area, j <

: Y——_—-
m July 23, 1958, Lieuténan ROBERTO VILA of
yMilltary Intelligence Sckvice (SIM), ad-
NI was in custody of that service on
C1

suspicion that he had a

SECRET A‘

Bir ees

eda a courier for the “26th of (|



5
:
i
i

ny

igi eee ae oy

Revolutionar ry Movement bétween Miami, Florida and.

Santiago de Cuba. ’>FIORINI: had been arrested on July —
18, 1958 in Sanc{ago. de Cuba in. a house known as -a con}

tact point ‘for the 26th of July ‘Movement. VILA reported”
“that: FIORINI-had admitted having transported guns con=
cealed in-an autémobile in April, 1958, while delivering.
this: car Cuba on the ferry CITY: OF HAVANA from Key:
West, Florida. The Cuban authorities deported FIORINI
to. the United. States on July 29, 1958, :

It 48 to ba noted that the 26th of July Revo-
lutionary Movement was foundéd by. FIDEL CASTRO RUZ, who,
in 1958 was attempting to overthrow the government of
FULGENCIO BATISTA, :

On July 24, 1958, U.S. Customs Service, Miami,
raided two residences at’ 2498 S.W, 21st Street and 4450
8.W. 4th Street’, Miami, where they confiecated an arme
cache belonging to Cuban revolutionary exiles in Miami:
Oné of thesa residences had been rented to FIORINI and
a considerable amount of identifyiag data and personal
paperé belonging to FIORINI were found duxing the raids.

On July 30, 1958, upon FLORINI's return from
Cuba, he was arrested in Miawi' by U.S. Customs for viola-
tions relating ‘to the conspiracy to illegally ship arms
~, from the United States, :

“On Novenber 4, 1958, MM T-1, a federal agency
which conducts intelligence investigations, reported
that FIORINI arrived in Mexico City, Mexico, October 27,

SECRET

-3-



FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS.
SECRET

1958 with..RICARDO LORIE and PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANE, both
Cuban pilots.

‘The November 21, 1958 Asaue of the NOVEDADAS. DE
MEXICO, a Mexico-City newspaper; reported that FRANK. ..'--.
FIORINE arid’ 7 Cubans. were arrested when they landed a C-46
atrplane at Apatzingan, Mexico, and were under arrest for ,
instigating a plan to carry arms by air from Mexico to
Cubati ‘reel leader FIDEZL CASTRO via Venezuela. :

: It 49 to be notéd that the’ BATISTA government
collapsed on January 1, 1959 and the rebel forces ‘of
FIDEL, CASTRO assumed power in Cuba.

The January 13, 1959 issue of the TAME 1 NEWS
carried a photograph showing ‘Rebel Captain FRANK FIORINI"
holding a weapon over a masa grave in Cuba.

Cn January 6, 1969, M4 T-2, who ts well acquainted
with PIORINI and many of bia Cuban comrades, advised that.
PIORINI was then-in Cuba with the rebel forces of FIDEL

CASTRO.

On March 2, 1959, MM T-2 reported FIORINI waa
serving as a Captain in the Cuban Army in Cuba and was also
serving as a government inspector of gambling at the
Tropicana Night Club in Havana. Z

On May 26, 1959, MM T-3, a Cuban who was then
serving with the Revolutionary Air Force in Cuba, advised
that FIORINI was then serving as an investigator for the
Revolutionary Air Force, which was under the coumand of
Major PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, with whom FIORINI had forwerly
been associated

SECRET

-4-



red mane taper pre nna SESE 2

ay

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS
an » "SECRET

oe on . . |
in Miami in amuggling guns from the United States to Cuba. | é

When Major DIAZ. LANZ defected from the CASTRO
government after denouncing FIDEL CASTRO as a Communist
in June, 1959, FIORINI, who had already established a ‘
temporary residence in Miani as a representative of the
Revolutionary ‘Air Force, remained in Miami-where he con-
tinued close association with DIAZ LANZ,

: ‘ Qn October 21, 1959, DIAZ LANZ, accompanied by
several companions, made an anti-CASTRO léaflet dropping
vaid over Havana, Cuba, in a B-25 plane. Immediately
after che raid, FIORINI admitted that he had participated
in the raid and had served as co-pilot of the plane,
* On April 26, 1960, Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service (INS), Miami, advised that expatriation hear-

. ings had been held by that fervice, relative to FIORINI.

It was held that FIORINI had voluntarily expatriated him-
Self as a citizen of the United States because of his
services in ‘the armed forces in Cuba subsequent to January
1,°1959,

The Passport Office of U.S. State Department.
also decreed that FIORINI had expatriated himself under
Section 349 (a) (3) of the 1NS act by accepting on March
23, 1959, an appointment by the Cuban Air Force as
liaison officer between, the Cuban Air Force and the united
States Air Force. A certificate of loss of nationality
was approved on January 29, 1960. However, on March 18,"
1961 the MIAMI NEWS carried an article captioned "Cuban
Entanglement - FRANK FIORINI Citizenship Restored after
14 Months." This article reflected that FIORINI's

SECRET
-5-



Sonera teen maine amarmnapens meres PANEER

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS

SECRET Pah ela

ettizenship had been restored and FIORINE had been so
notified by the Department of Justice on March 14, 1961.

. Investigation in January, 1961, reflected that
FIORINI had formed an organization known as the Inter-
national Brigade, and-had.set up a camp located 40. miles
from Miami, occupied by 16 individuals. However, by
January 21, 1961, this camp had been deserted ‘by its
occupanta,

On September 14, 1961, WILLIAM JOHNSON, a
United States. citizen and adventurer, who lives in Miami,
advised that in January or February, 1961, FIORINI waa
among a group.of 5 individuals who made two unsuccessful.
attempts to fly into Cuba in order to discharge certain
passengers.

On July 1, 1962, a firm known as the Hampton
Roads Salvage Corporation ; 1524 N.W. 17th Avenue, Miami,”
applied.to U.S. Customs for approval to change the classi-
fication of a veasel, the "Q 0 USA," from pleasure to com-
mercial use. -The application was aigned by FRANK STURGIS.

:. Newspapér reports subsequently reflected that
FIORINI in july, 1962, claimed that he had trained 20
Cuban guerrillas and had made a successful landing by
boat in Cuba's Matanzaa Province. MM T-2 repofted on
July 17, 1962 that FIORINI had taken’a group of wale in-
dividuals, including several unidentified newspaper wen;
to the Keys of Florida, where they made some still photo-
graphs for publicity purpoges. The individuals photo-
graphed were in combat clothing and they simulated a
‘combat maneuver.

SECRET
-6-



j
u

FRANK: ANTHONY STURGIS :
SECRET

E On. April 541963. U.S. Customs Service, Miamt,
seized an American motor vessel, the VIOLYN III, on, —
grounds there was probable cause. to believe that arms

and munitions of war had been exported or removed from _
the United States in violation of law, aboard this boat, -
This vesgél had been purchaged by ALEXANDER I; RORKE,

@ United States citizen, newspaper photographer and ad-.
venturer, who had been Closely associated with FIORINI in
antis CASTRO activities. (RORKE disappeared in 1963 after

, departing South Flovida by plane on a trip to Mexico, and

is presumed to be dead. )

5 FRANK FIORINI ‘and WILLIAM JOHNSON advised U.S.
Customs that dic to arrangements made with RORKE, they had
committed this boat to the use of an anti-CASTRO organ-
iaation known as Los Pinos Nuevos. They admitted that
they had loaded: the. vessel with three 100 pound bombs,
and proceeded =to- Norman ‘Key in the Bahama Islands; where
the bombs were hidden, pursuant toa plan for a later
attack againat Cuba. However, these plans went awry after.
the VIOLYN III was. seized by che British in April, 1963
in’ the Bahamas with 17 Cuban-bound anci-CASTRO exile
raiders aboard. 7

On April 7, 1964 FIORINI admitted that he was
the founder of che anti-CASTRO organization known as the
International Anti-Cormmapiae brigade (aca).

May 13, 1964, MM T- -2 atated that the IACB is
a paper Albsillees get up by FICRINI-in order to collect

funds fer nis personal benefit and gain. MM T-2 said that

FIORINI is an American solider of fortune, adventurer and
SECRET

ep jee



FRANK ANTHONY. STURGIS : .
- SECRET

metcenary, who has made a living out of Cuban revolutionary
activities, andé déceives: Cubans by dttempting to sell them
arms which he does not own. i

On May: 25, 1964, PIORINI admitted that the ACB
consists of only a handful “oF members and has no finances.

Investigation during the. past several years has
reflected that FIORINI ha3 developed thé reputation among.
hte fellow anti-CASTRO assocfates in Miami-as being a ©
braggart, a liar and a suspected informer for various
investigative agencies. . He 1s algo a publicity seeker and
ia frequently quoted ‘in the Miami newapapets relative to
the ‘Cuben situation.

At the present time he has practically no follow~
ing among the anti-CASTRO Cuban exiles in Miami.

This document contains neither recommendations nor con-
clusions of the FBI, It ia the ptoperty: of the FBI and is
loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be.
distributed oatalde your agency.

SECRET

-8%

£5 copy



UNITED. STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION :
Miami; Florida”
Aus 8 5 16

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, also known as

Frank Attila, Fred Attila, Frank.
Canipbell ~~ - fie

INTERNAL SECURITY = CUBA
Character NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Reference memorandim dated and captioned as

above.

'

: ‘411 sources (except any listed below) whose tdentittes -
- Sve concealed in refereuced communication have furnished reliable

infommation-4n the past.

The #2cuaent contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It 1s the preserty
of the FBI dod 16 loaned to ywat egency; It usd ite Contenta ate no tase

‘yout agency.

“mitle Frank Fiorini, Fred.Frank Firini, ©

