104-10220-10028

OUT Ol NG

° : f ur

. Lobe
on eo )
i

seCRET
eae . peiesie noses
Pa pee) Ty 122000
cont chigé wee: tue ais ofeez sal 8 mee ba
i Yors, nereloge: a Bommn vt UE
Cone 2 LOL

TOt FEDERAL BURCAU OF INVESTIGATION/ZATTAS Rok. HCREPSUE/GENERAL

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.Y
SECRET--WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELL
INVOLVED - NOT RELEASABLE T9 FOREIGN NATIONALS ¥

NCE SOUPTZS BUD METHODS

CIR-3Lb/03b05-27 ¥

SUJECT: INVESTIGATION TiTO THE DEATH CF CRLANDO LETELIERS INFORMA}

TION ON THE ORGANIZATION OF CORU ¥
REFERENCE? FIRCIE 312/03290- 7787 cpa M77 ¥
3}. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION PERTAINS TO INDIVEBUALS HENTIONED

IN REFERENCE. THIS INFORMATION IS BEING Rape AVAILABLE TO ASSISTANT

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY EUGENE MN. PROPPER.Y ; vet at

AN

"2. THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION 0K
ARGENTINE NATIONAL WHO WAS IDENTIFIED AS A FORMER EMPLOYEE OF THE

GULF AND WESTERN CORPORATION AT THE FALCONERIDGE PROJECT. DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC {SIC} AND WHO IS CURRENTLY EMPLOYED BY “EL FOSARIO” MINE.
{HEADQUARTERS COMMENT! IN DECEMBER 197%b THE SAME SOURCE WHO PRO-

VIDED PARAGRAPHS 2 -b OF REFERENCE REPORTER THAT
AND ROLANDO eno cneenekoezo TRAVELLED AT LEAST

tN? espe at
e272 77

ate ‘pa ot DESTROY

4

‘pe Jus
ed ctme obeaes .

es



Scenes voces oy

ee nu GUTTA

cone 8 weer : HSoss 0
Drees PRR

ae 0 Py
CUBAN BORN PRESTDENT OF

TUICE TO LA FROMANA TO SEE

GULF AND western AMERICAS, TO SEEK ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.}
rie ienes a

a STARION COMMENT? NOU HAS A TOP JOB WITH GULF AND

WESTERN Ih QORAL GAELESs FLORIDA.2¥

2. IS PROSABLY IDENTICAL WITH] P

IDCATIFIED TO YOU AS GONE OF THE BEST FRIENDS OF U.S. ARNY MAJOR
is

EVIOUSLY

A CUZAN EXILE, IS KNOUN TO BE CLOSE TO ORLANDO BOSCH

¥

AVICA (AND

WAS SOLICITING

DELEGATION OF LOCAL CUBANS, AMONG THEN
MONEY FOR CUBAN RIGHTIST ACTIVITIES.

4

JIN LATE 1976

A

“, 1 a

ee A RENBER OF BRIGADE 2504 AND WAS A CAN=

DIDATE- TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN EARLY

SINCE THEN-Y

2962. THERE HAS BEEN NO AGENCY CONTACT UITH
ayy ah
POSSI@LY IDENTICAL WITH

IN 3463 OWE

same
ons:
‘ UNIT: .
ext:

sve moe eee

WRSEEOARS Le hong we oe gretmeenn

ber

ct eornes
ower . fi ee IMPDET
SECRET i te pr: JOW94

2 as



Omer wiseew ty:
Dw mcee

D csronre O9P
ed

WAS DESCRISED AS A FORMER S05 BRIGADE MEMBER BHO

BAS £8 EXECUTIVE MENBER OF THE MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY PECOYCRY :
(PRY «4 :

4 In DECEMBER 1976 THE SOURCE OF PASAGRAFHS 2 - & OF
REFERENCE REPORTED THAT IN JULY OR AUGUST 1976. DURING A MEETING OF

A GROUF OF CUBAN EXILES AT THE PIZZA RESTAURANT IN THE DOMINICAN
lspoxe OPENLY

RESUZLICs
ABOUT PLANS TO ASSASSINATE "UN GRAN FUNCIONARIO AMERICANO” Th COSTA
PLEASE SEE CIOL-O445-76, 23 SECENBER

RICK. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

1976+ BHICH PROVIDED YOU WITH INFORMATION ON TERRORIST PLOTTING OF i

CUBAN EXILES AND INFORMATION RELATING TO THE ACTIVITIES OF U.S.

IN RELATION TO THE PARAGRAPH TWO MEETING. SOURCE

ARMY MALOR
REPORTED THAT THE PARTICIPANTS DISCUSSED THE FACT THAT FORMER

SECRETLEY OF STATE KISSINGER MET IN EITHER MEXICO OR COSTA PICA WITH :
RE IN THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT NAMED HART” {PROBABLY :
ye

2 3
ARMAKEO HART DA OS}. KISSINGER WAS LABELED A TRAITOR AND PLANS
WERE PISCUSSED TO ASSASSINATE HIM IN SAN JOSE. COSTA RICA. THE

PERSCK CHARGED WITH COORDINATING “THIS ACTION WAS

"AH IMPORTANT FIGU
2D)

DATE:
‘ome: on
URIs .
or:
i .
: come comers COoe pears OF MENED aot emes cmences
oosemaeren : — 2  ImMepeT
cu sy: 009439
spd edt nN Son ant Seen erp rears

so ame

(Gees


preteen wren uot Ome

onF oC. Q 0 i)
reece
SECRET
wenenoe mance mee ron ‘oate tree enous em
CIA
‘CONF. INFO: FILE

mtesacs mrneenuce meee

{[S0065 D mos oissew Ove
. Qo

D sewers PER

h~1 : : Dene #
SOURCE BELIEVED THAT RESIDED IN MIAMI. THE

PLAN WAS NOT CARRIED OUT BECAUSE THE "CIA FOUND OUT™ AND "AN

= IMPORTANT EXILE." IDENTIFIED AS
NIAKI, COVECTED AND THREATENED TO ADVISE Grit
Poe Tite thi, 7
RELEASE IY 19

BHO ALSO_LIVE
Fl PRLMMINEL/T ie
TUR PAROS

DOIN
<.

ONE WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON

(LeU BAS FORMER MEMBER OF THE 2S50b BRIGADE. HE WAS

oo
e INTEREST IN USING

3 TERMINATED BY THIS AGENCY IN MAY 1963. IN LATE 1963 STHERE WAS
.
IN TEACHING INFILTRATION TECHNIQUES BUT

THERE IS NO INDICATION THAT HE WAS CONTACTED IN THIS REGARD.¥
aa

S. .THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION ON

IDENTI-

FIED AS PRESIDENT OF THE CUBAN CLUB IN SANTO ‘DOMINGO. OR ON LOCAL 3

EMPLOYEES OF THE AMERICAN ene pray jo DOMINGO.

ae ae

—————

= LON
ks PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH

se Fit

HE IS THE

cAeT.1 Aa 8

HO BAS BORN IN HAVANA

+ SON OF FORMER CUBAN VICE PRESIDENT

UHO SERVED

“pate:
ome:
unt:
or:

. “eatate ones ccneatemeiiatabel
* epnerina non i$
SECRET Ave

DURING THE ADMINISTRATION OF CARLOS PRIO- RECEIVED

ao 6
wore poe oe omens
; € 32" MPDET

a>

> Ch BY: CO9499

i
|
}
i



Os

measaee nervarwce meee

barecren once oe

CIA
[S000 0 meee unset BY: |
G oO

conr; FO. PILE

D carers PER

i Doms,
TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY DURING 24b1 AND WAS CAPTUREDBAT. THE BAY
OF PIGS. HIS FATHER pureéYepiy PATD 6100,000 FOR HIS SON'S RELEASE.

HOWEVER, AT THE TIME THE RANSON WAS EFFECTED, THERE WAS CONSIDERABLE

SPECULATION AMGKG EXILES IN THE MIAMI AREA THAT HIS FATHER DID NOT
PAY THE RANSOM 2UT HAD MADE A DEAL WITH THE CUSAN GOVERNMENT FOR
RTAKE PRO-CASTRO PROPAGANDA IN LATIN AMERICA IN
WAS ARRESTED IN MIAMI IN

TO Uh

EXCHANGE FOR HIS FREEDOM.
* JUNE 1970 OM MARCOTICS-RELATED CHARGES:  IT-IS BELIEVED THAT THE

DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFOR~

MATION ON \
"Qe THES AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTREFY

BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMA~

be IS THE PEN MANE SED BY BHO IS
ot Le = :
- ALSO KNORUN AS WHO “MAY NOT BE IDENTICAL

HAS SERVED AS PROPAGANDA SECRETARY FOR THE CUBAN EXILE

Ta Naeem oe ET ee 8

ORGANIZATION “JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA” AND WAS EDITOR OF THE ANTI-CASTRO

Dares
ona: ‘
uNtts
on

cana comet : economete centres aermasmeatere oncas
ircerenipercnad . : E2 IMPDET

SECRET cl BY:009499

TION.Y : ae E98 ae ap 3VT IF ae

i
,

i

“ UITH FENTIONED IN REFERENCE. WAS BORN IN HAVANA


‘OUTGOING MESSAGE

! CIA
cont: wwro: rit Be steht coca aaa
womens
O vrvento PER

O wens oF i é

PUZLICATION "AMIGO DEL PUESLO” AS OF MAY 19b8.¥

“eS Sole
4. IS POSST@LY IDENTICAL WITH

mo uas gorw IN Havana ks

A FORMER CUSAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICER WHO JUNPED SHIP IN PANAMA IN
JULY 1969 AND REQUESTED ASYLUM. HE HAS APPEARED BEFORE THE U-S.
SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY AND HAS GIVEN TESTIMONY RBELATING

TO THE COMMUNIST THREAT TO THE U.S. VIA THE CARIBBEAN-Y
et THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY
BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION. ¥

257

-32

: é vw tb, ts possia.y IDENTICAL WITH

20 x
Ho RUAS BORN IN LAS VILAS, Cuaal

HAS LONG BEEN IDENTIFIED AS AN INFORMANT FOR DOMINICAN ;

a a
INTELLIGENCE. ¥ ie pt 2900 PE 7 i
a2. one BORN IN GUINES. CUBA,

WAS SCHEDULED TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING

FROM THIS AGENCY IN EARLY Gb}. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL

+ INFORMATION on 20"
. PSE RI =o HP
i 33. ZS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH
he, BATEE ‘
: oats:
UNIT:
ot

earner mene | ‘
— 2 ‘MPDET :
eb by: saat :



“OUTGOING MrS>AGE

roma, canren uae over
co res

onF oO o o Q

Aye ek Saat a aa ‘ on
ernlen cece are aewe owowe one WER DAGE MteE nance eresER
* CIA
CONF: iro: FILE USO H =a DISSEM BY:
O arwmre PER

Suet #
bo vas BORN IN HAvAKd jas

BEEN ACTIVE IN THE REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF THE PEOPLE {PRP} SINCE ITS

"FORMATION IN COSTA RICA IN NOVEMBER BL972-¥ :
U4. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY rentzey |

bast ONL THE LACK OF PERTINENT EIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.Y¥
£9

ig pReDABLY IDENTICAL WITH

ey WAS BORN IN LAS VILASs cuBal

TINE ANTI-~CASTRO ACTIVIST AND SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE

IS A LONG
i . .

CUBAN EXILE ney 77 kaa ae a
: AD LTT ORT RI HT

WHO WAS BORN IN SANTIAGO DE CUBA

WAS RECRUITED BY THIS AGENCY IN MARCH 15631 TO PARTICIPATE IN THE '
HE HAS NOT BEEN USED BY THIS AGENCY IN ANY
HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN

. BAY OF PIGS INVASION.
MOPERATIONAL CAPACITY SINCE THE BAY OF PIGS.

“THE CUSBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE {RECE} GROUP.

“ogee oe


“!- RECEIVED PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN LATE 1960 AND

i
i
t

OUTGOING MESSAGE

branay canren use Onur
a0 oo i

Chait ee ee Jaa tee

SECRET.

creme eedaron core mee one ” seesnanneranonas ares
CIA

CONF: wro: FILE MTOCG ce bee te :

: : : D maces f

DO vemanve PAR '

7 i

: 2 oY 0 vrs # :
1. IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH[

We bas BORN IN HAVANAI

WAS ACTIVE IN THE 8250 GRIGADE. AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH
WAS TERMINATED IN JANUARY 19b2.-¥
tee tio -7O)
ae. TS PRopABLY IbENTICAL wrTH| dH
WAS ARRESTED IN 1th FM CONNECTION WITH THE CUBANAMAIRLINER CRASH-#
- WA Lud : .
IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH

win
IN 1976.4

WHO WAS ARRESTED '
|
20. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY i
t

!
ASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMA~

TION.Y : fe Bs509f

21. JAIR ADVISOR TO THE i

EXECUTIVE BHRANCHs WAS BORN IN PUERTO PLATA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

FORMER CUIEF
are C14 d

OF THE CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE, GENERAL MANUEL SENITEZ VALDEZ. HAD

DATE:
ORIG:
ont:
uxt:

cereus eens
£2 IMPDET :
fh pf: COW ‘



OUTGOING MSSSAGE

stoma SONTEAUBE ONY
aoe om
onF oO tt) 0 te) o Q

wee

SECRET 7

recat manecme noaton arenes anoue, ‘ ene mansnee nesennwse mort
CIA

conr: INFO: FILE yoee 7 as eee

DO menenso PER .
DO emee &
VISITED THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN AN EFFORT TO SELLy TO THE
DOMINICANS, ARMAMENT AND SPARE PARTS FROM A U-S+-BASED FIRM WHICH
BENITEZ WAS REPRESENTING. BENITEZ HAD CONTACTED TUO DOMINICAN

GENERALS|
ASSOCIATION WITH CUBAN EXILES AND ARMS SALESMEN HAD BEEN THE

WAS

SUBJECT OF PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE DURING 1972 AND THAT
ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED WITH MILITANT CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, SUCH AS "ALPHA

¢ bbs" DURING 1962-1963.¥

22. IN LATE. DECEMBER ae
it 37 g : 7 .
BLS ONE [WAS IDENTIFIED AS A NENBER OF A RIGHTIST GROUP
WHICH WAS ORGANIZED TO COUNTER THE SPREADING OF INFLUENCE BY FORMER

“CONSTITUTIONALISTS" IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. THE GROUP WAS

RESPONSIBLE FOR PLACING PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE AT THE GRAVESITE OF LT.
2 Now

COLONEL RAFAEL Tomas "FERNANDEZ DOMINGUEZ IN SANTIAGO, DOMINICAN

“REPUBLIC, IN MID-DECEMBER 1965 IN AN APPARENT ATTEMPT TO MURDER
iy WTO 2 ea

WHO UAS ATTENDING A CEREMONY IN

“HONOR OF FERNANDEZ. THE GRBOUP WAS UNSUCCESSFUL IN ITS ATTEMPT TO

DETONATE THE EXPLOSIVE.¥

bate:
ORIG:
Units
extr

rmesmanmns orcas

E 2 IMPDET
cee. ANAT



drome: cemtrn ust omy

awe on a a a
OnF. O te) Q o “ o o

eeaentnes

SECRET s
Mectat dane cease eee a Se tuaeeae
CIA
cone. ro: Fuk TS FOO] Oana eect neeuii a
ey, Donne ver G7
A agri 007 : 1
23. IS PROSAUBLY IDENTICAL vr hen

: bo WAS BORN IN SANTO DOMINGO. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

CIVILIAN ADVISOR TO PRESIDENT

JOAQUIN BALAGUER FROM 1570

UNTIL HIS ARREST IN LATE

[PASRSENT INTO

's EXILE AND RETURNED TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FROM SPAIN IN JULY 1975. .

H
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

’
HE HAS SERVED

THE DISSIDENT FACTION OF THE

DEMOCRATIC QUISGUEYAN PARTY AFAR SS
oer E LI

eu.

IS PROBABLY ID

|

FRALEY 2 77

THIS Ai

JORE COMMONLY REFERRED TO AS

ENTICAL WITH :

GENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL BIOGRAPHIC BRDATA

On HOUEVERs

WHO WAS BORN IN SANTO

DOMINGO GA

INED NOTORIETY BY "HNEUTRALZZING"

: “TERRORISTS WHEN HE WAS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SPECIAL OPERATIONS GROUP,

+ MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTI

25. IN APRIL 14bb ONE

ON {u-2} OF THE DOMINICAN ARMED FORCES.¥
WHO IS



OUTGOING MESSAGE
eo

onrF oO o Ls) 0 o a o

SECRET ;
wissescannina trenton seme eee “ erseeerseneene queen
; CIA j :
CONF: : THRO: PILE . / t Sooe O mms seeeens
: D sonen
D srerve PER
: : - .
PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH was ONE

T
OF WHREE DOMINICAN NILITARY OFFICERS WHO WAS CALLED TO SANTO DOMINGO

TO BE QUESTIONED ABOUT HIS INVOLVEMENT TH THE ALLEGED PLOT TO

i ASSASSINATE GENERAL JOSE Hort. PREVIOUS INFORMATION FROM 19b5

° INDTMCATES THAT wHo was eorn[ |
IN LA VEGAs DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. WAS HE NATIONAL

POLICE IN SAN FRANCISCO DE HACORIS.¥

fe 2b. AN FEIS ITEM FROM JULY LAbk IDENTIFIES ONE
; SAN AIDE WITH THE INTER-AMERICAN DEFENSE BOARD.
THIS AGENCY HAS NOBADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON (zed

SOURCE WAS NOT POSITIVE THAT ROJAS ATTENDED

COMMENT?

pet

| THE MEETING.3¥

27. ONE WHO WAS BORN IN THE DOMINICAN

IS A MEMBER OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE

REPUBLIC
PARACHUTE BRIGADE.Y

a

gered
IS THE WIFE OF

28.

29. IN MAY 1977 ord STATION IDENTIFIED ;

Mf

{ DATE: 5
{ ‘ORIG: .
fount: :
{oem

!

i

auretmaarens comess
—£ 2 IMPDET
cu BY: go74"9

coosomerme omeret



i

’

OUTGOING MESSAGE
e ; [el st
eee fiawe: cewrea vee cn. = oan J
rr eae ar) Praermererry
onF oo o tt) oO 0 0 0 ite 12
cuupeonanon : :
SECRET
easnen miament eoaroe curpsrwt cpu : on tsssor aramnce meee
CIA 7
* coms, ro: PLE _ . USO6O A Spon een
yy 4? ) D aevmre PER :
49 .
azo Donn # i
S THE PARTNER OF THE STATION :

ADVISED THAT IN EARLY rary cave A PHONY CHECK FROM A MIAMI

BANK IN THE AMOUNT OF 923,000 TO A DOMINICAN MOHEY CHANGER
HE HAD CHANGED "SMRBHANY MANY? DOLLAR

AND. THISSSE WAS THE

CHECKS INTO DOMINICAN PESOS FOR!
ALSO SAID HE BELIEVED WAS HIDING

FIRST PHONY CHECK.

IN GUATEMALA-Y
It IS BELIEVED THAT THE FAA MAY HA ADDITIONAL PEERTINENT ut

INF OREATION on|
: . z R i P z
30- ADDITFONAL INFORMATION DEVELOPED BY THIS AGEMCY of

HAS SEEN FORWARDED TO You IN PREVIOUS

CORRESPONDENCE. Y :
BL. THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO ITS

RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE COLLECTION OF INTELLIGENCE ON FOREIGN ASPECTS
“OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE
FURTHER DISSENINATED WITHOUT PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH THIS AGENCY-¥
32. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-1,.2-d

DATE:
one:

unt:

ext: *

nrwerncar omens
—E2 IMPDET
J BY goguga



DIORA CONTER Uae OMY
aot eo “ Weta tn

Cr a a |

remem ro PER

SECRET
cunteremnprerocree een nove es Pleseaataa
cone. ro; rie AOS Nee aces nage cumameae

O wee 2.
"B CODE" TO FOLLOWING: E203-De4241) 01-026460S

263-024u325 202-0834598 201-
0653347 201-0332267 2n1-n298az28| 201-
0355360 201-0297837 20i-0285794 | 201-0355003,

04-0878309 2O1-0842b7? INDEX:

{202-07425b5}.

raBeMON Re fete ty

ORIG! LA/AN/CH x30gu>s corps crtivan { —__ C/LA/CAR
4 C/LA/COG k accrppo { Js crtavors (_____—«+iéB

SA/C/LA eceectcerte auTH: C/LAD { 3 REL? C/PCS/LSN/ID

}

C/LAZAN
C/LA/ CBA
PEAA/ COG,

AGC/DD,
C/LAZOP:
SA/C/L,

oe 20 OCTOBER 1977

‘ORIG: .

en 4034

1
CLERSSCLAN7ID cecsennas ommeans
susseereanes
SECRET



f
% & a
i
} :
-

‘ DOCUMENT
21 JULY 1977
al CLASSIFICATION: ‘
i i
4 SURJRCT: UNKNOWN SUBIECTS; EXPLOSION IH CAR 4
A DRIVEN BY GPTANDO LETHLIEH - VICTIM i
q (DECEASED) 22+ ad
2 FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.) i 4
: 3 d
i |
4 i
5 i 4
E E : 4
ai 4
4



heme

pen capteyenmer

FRI DOCUMENT

21 JULY 1977

CIASSIFICATION: Sever

SUBJECT: UNKNOWN Siz "8; EXPLOSION IN CAR
DRIVEN BY GrIANDO LEPELIEH - VICTIM
(DECEASED) «24

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)



GARGS BEE O1ASEm OF

reposiunt nonnee,

sovance coe ssayem

wr ormece

wenn EP ba “shen aac

j
id .
r
°
T 122463 ELASa2 PAGE O4 ° TN 363643
TeRt2622232 AUG 77" s7e16 Aa

SEC ARE T 2621092 AUG 77 STAFF

Cre 37016

TOs INFO DIRECTGR,

ww iwren WaT Fupweut :

REF; vEMO OF 4 AUG 77 FROM LEGATT
1, 3eus PASS FOLLOWING COMMENTS TO LEGAT KEYED TO

! F_ROLANDO iter HERNANDEZ

FORWARDED ay TM :

HIS SEF MEMO ON DESRIEFING
1) NO STATION, Dag TRACES ON MAUOR

2) NO STATION TRACES
ONLY NAME CLOSE IS ONE
WHO DESCRIBED IN FEB 72 AS a 1ST CLASS DETECTIVE WHO :

ENTERED THE SERVICE IN 1954,
3) NO STATION TRACES
“a) THERE ARE SEVERAL PARACHUTE CLUBS IN

BUT WE HAVE NOT YET JDENTIFIZD ONE CALL "LOS SCORPIONES,* i

5) THIS PRIGASLY & REFESENCE TO :

WHICH LOCATED ON SOUTHERN OUTSKIRTS GF

Je

fia 7}



Tw 335643
] 37224

FOR INFO

2, SraTles Can Suzsy

AQGYE NAMED PESSGNS, BUT AT Some SLIGHT RISK OF ALERTING GOC
TO USG INTESSS?. PLS aGviSe IF YOU WOULD LEKE US TO MaKe

THIS QUERY,

3. FILE: oe €2 InPcet

- s€Creyr q



{

fasectabulbiliria easter andl nseebinn cuttin Brame actl

“Feate de Yasiniantet 12 de wtrtl de 198) i ie
Hetura}a lsrlesae, Pinar dol Rice Aobanns

Jere Gmecre el gruzot Sent, 10

Sereciasieint Mictne y empae cortae, pietole y ravclrer. —
Kogbra de sup Sras, Pacreut Relondo 7 Bargot.
soxbre“de ev Ste, Es-om1t Ho,

Cures Obcervealocert 1) ler, ane de Dechillersto, Best
patra § ysnee, Ayuxteriento ¢e Martens9 2 aores O77, Fev, 1S tegad s case
3} Oetolicas 5)Xiagums 4) Goi Lerno ve respete el ¢erecho da tos eiudedanca y Leva
stage econaimes) feonssia é-sarrolieds ab myines €) Ljeretto, Aviacton Killter.

ae Directanonte iced, ee
oe

rarent feceas 7 be ect to eu
°



Saber ais saa Page ede,

SILMING OTERO ua cant,
varimboutet 12 go etril ge 1942 : :
mae, FL

dah Klee Sotanas =

eae Ste ox9 2 grape Jem. Ie

yoctastatar Qffcku: y emma tortae, ptetola y revolver.
Maxbre a9 ous Sros, Putreas Rolando 7 Bargot. .
sostréde su Sroq Bureset Xo, . ,

Srroa Odcerveeloross 1) Isr, ane de Pechillorcto, Restawsent 4 costa ¥ be ose 4a ou
gotre 5 neces, Apuerteriento de te: 7
8} Getoiseas $)Xiagurms 4) Vol Lerno qua reupote #1 ¢ereabo 2a tos eiudadawa y Love
_ 2p econstengs) Leonia dvearroticds ab mixtnos 6) Ejote!to, Avinodon Kilftar,
z :  Birnetanente , Mirae :

9 2 mvves an I9S7, Kov, If legal a caye Z:



. fat
ace
No. 2731
Nonbro___ Otero Hernéndex Rolando Toam_A
Eatatura, 222

Pose, 1s0

Color Ojos, Cxatane Parjos celer det Pele Negro

Cheatricos vieibloo___Pinsune
° o
1-2-5 -4-5-6-7-8-9- 10-1 - 12-13 - H~ 15 ~ 16

RECORD DENTAL’
32 ~ 51 - 50 - 29 = 28 = 27 = 26 - 25-2 = 25 22 = 21-20-19 18-17

Dodos pulgsross



AH > Rolando OTERO Hernandes
marta fo 2 Tear 272
an. 326k

1

COME L + Airborne
STATO 2 Captured

Lat :

CUSSSEATION REVIEW

TS tLe



ALN DRTC AETAR RATION N OG Ene kevaemanenmen a

~

a 1 MOA 2 INDAKTIFTCACION PaRSONAL

NUMERO. ae 3?

NOMBRE Y APELLIDOS,

7
PECHA Y LUGAR DS KACIMI -2°7
ESTADO CIVIL,

PROP#SION. E. dt Te
EXP - COALERCIO -

Ico EASLEY - SE ALINE TAR CARRO

a Aare a lhl Seas aged tne Ana
SXPARLINCIA MILIVAS_ Dilan god
y

4
PSCHA DE SALIDA DS CUBA Y VIA Wi UTI.IZ0 (Pong si selio logal o ilogal-
uy. monte

FF}, webnpe Bet ~ SIE FO Zor at ees ‘ 2 te
Yitwd- LL IpA. LECAL

SSTADOS UFIDOS Y =X QUE CONDICION IS La VIVIA

OTRAS APTITUDES,

?
FOCHA DE LLSGaADA 4 LOS
ALLI

pe

INFORMACION _ UTILIDAD 30222 COSAS 2UZ SEPA DZ SU PAIS. : OMe cionle [2 5. a
z 5 Fai @ Lbs 2 ne stat AQILITIRES 4
: ao l. :



“

AS

aiid POMC OTERO HERTATOSZ

. INDENTI?i7,770# PERSONAL (BASE TRAX)

MUWERO__ 2773 : .

PELOTOM Y TEAM

PECHA DE NACIKIENTO___26 Abril 1941

NATURAL, Morlanscy~P del Plo 7 22bs :

FECHA INTEORO EL ORUTO. Sent 272

ESPECIALISTA, Ofsainas nn
NOWERE SUS BRS. PADRES _ Rolentt 7 Yercot

NOMRE SU SRA. ESPOSK No :
NOMBRE ¥ EDAD SUS HIJOS__tig —_—$ $$$ $$

AQUE 82 SONDRA 8 VECES QUE Hi, SILO SUZGLDO_

—

OTRAS OBSERVACIONES. : i

{ ie


FRY 140 V2NT
DATE: 12 JANUARY, 1977
CYASSIFITATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: COORPINATION OF UNITED REVOLULIONARY
OZGANIZATIONS (CORU)

“FB PILZ 0: 2-k71 (MIAMI)



1400000

HOSSTEE HAS acEN EXTRACTEG FROM ANCTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE. .
TEESINS OEREDEMING NAVE TRAGES ARE CAUTICNED TRAY THE O9CU

VENT FST WHICH THES EXTRACT 4AS FREPARED CONTAINS. “ADDITICNAL
PMETIVATION OFATAINING TO THE SUBJECT. AND. SHOULD. EQUESTE

fae poses

Cotress, Eetanne |
PIRNPBATE 201-¢74236
SEX - SCCw-27ER1

nent mB EH AMS I

custeerye¢
Trav

LOC MSM, ELAy MIAN

re Os VARS FOarsn Na C
LUETESAARY MOGANELATIORS

a ae

wg eee et AR



woe ONY

i

Bo oo Be oe a

CONF ADLNTZAR
SECRET
(Khen Filled In)

Review of 201 File on U.S, Citizen

In accordance with the DDO'a notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed
the 201 file on OLE RY

and have determined that {t can most aci

Signed|

This assignment of category hao been entered into STAR.

Signed
~T

This document 40 0 permanent part of this file. 201-

Should be closed.
affix Records Officer stamp.)

WLeting collaborator.

Unwiteing collaborator,
Explanation:

Potential witting collaborator; date opened:
OI Code A2.

Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Coda Ad.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or

security service).

All others. OF Code A6.

OI Code A?.

Oi Code AS.

(surname) (201 number indicated below),
ccurately be categorized as indicated below:

(If this category applies,

OI Code Al. :

!

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OL Code A3.

Ov Guse whe

T TRETEy

EL Cube bn flo [4A
(citle) (compdnent)

|
|
|

LH She, FE

itialoy

(éata)

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET E2 UMPDET CL BY 061475

(When Filled In)


SECRET

201 PERSONALSTY FILE ACTION REQUEST

(Phos Troe)

Suoplementory Faplanstary ores Per the
ULth da Aotersed (3) Poll

rey
eeve Bide

Are Contosmed On The

Fie contoge

; IP/DMS Room GA-20 Tube Address: Dy=6 ren
aaa ¥ forrVee Bebiemation [oboe coy Took aeeaeas
FROM: IVA war tars [rom 9-90) re ane red
ie oreo 204 tee of nOLG uMPrsteicttD bm se/cmu (iP bee Oniyy

400 coverouye

tree or mou 1h 1eveny Gut erataict Te oLge
actios a t ~

(Soteet onty Cotect onty oney [| Peevanintey cnsoe FD
One) “Sturea Covrtonvwte) Ovy if Cevet@uve aP¥iom Wad WEN TSPIENTT

oo rer)

cancee coverosye

Wee catenin

ao eye wat CATT iret Taiadiay
APT OR eng pee are Criiesiete
MAME as isnty And TELtcouts (For Type, Uae A For Aline Y Bar Waraat et MEAL W For Bavdeay
reel ast : inst Tiasiey
—

Dave oF o1pTm.
te ernca entes Gox CJ

0. Coumtay, Provence, ciT¥/ Foon OF DIaTW

[4 G00 Ont)

a a TC ere (iF Woo Galy) | 11 occuration (IF Goo Onin}

Ue. MATUSALIZER H

'EVINVEAICENCE AYP ILIA TIOUIST bo TawceT OaGanizaTiOnIa) [13,87 eootTal | tay ACTION BERS oor |CtP Woe Only}

fie. Weoustay oF ieeatios Fe sua Ai Tercatst bean cooe TP Goo Ontyy j
17. C17 Pituo avon soees Te OELIve 1aOER GnOboy

Va. FoecuMeaT trapee, mumpea “Date “Say 60 __ve_]10. Sousipeace Givin in Ootwine DoCUSEOT Hee

TO" susuaay rest 0a (Bocert additional identity eeriptive dete. Bo aot inclede Cryptoavas. Bf apowca :

tnotx oeconne. record deotred. mrowide Bere procoded by “Code a=") :

7 Svematoat oF

ren

eatoet

SECRET

Surmoaity te suogter o> erreen,

Ta. Fer wore

reer

2, — FOCT CL. ats Co0007

perce



OUTGOING MESSAGE
de :

onr 6 3 8 Ly] oa 8

eee a
SECRET :

Se eee ete

STAFF 1390, DIRECTOR

fer
com fg mL Wider, S59, PY GE
Loalio, VAs, ade
bP Tet, 220 Pew ety SSS
TO! PRIORITY| INFO
UNINTEL ¥|
rene
3. ON 22 WOVENUER 2976 THE “UASHENGTON POST” PUBLISHED AN!

ARTICLE BY JOE CRANKSHAU IN HIANI WHICH REPORTED THAT FBI HAD BEEN
TOLD OF A DINA PLOT TO USE CUBAN EXILES TO KILL LUZS ANDRES :
PAS CAL ALLENDE AND ANNE MARIE BRUSSIER {SIC - SHOULD
BE BEAUSIRE}. FOLLOWING ARE EXCERPTS FROM ARTICLE: ¥ |

Ae
REPORTED To FBI THAT HE HAD BEEN TOLD OF A PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND °
BRUSSZIER BY ROLANDO O TER O- ACCORDING TO OTERO. HE WENT FO :
SANTZAGO IN EARLY FEBRUARY AND IDENTIFIED HIMSELF TO DINA OFFICIALS
AS A FUGITIVE FROA THE: U-S» AT DINA HAS. OTERO SAID -HE WAS TOLD es “4
THAT THE SECRET POLICE SUPPORT THE CUBAN EXILES® CAUSE AND OULD i
PROVIDE FUNDS AND ARMS FOR THEA IN RETURN FOR A PFAVOR.* THE FAVOR :
WAS TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSXER IN COSTA RICA BEFORE 22 FEBRUARY i
377b- OTERO QUOTED DINA SPOKESHEN AS SAYING BOSCH OULD BE BACKUP
IF OTERO OFATLED EN THE HESSTON. ACCORDING TO OTERO, HE REFUSED TO

dO THE SFAVOR Ae LEFT CHILE AND vol sd HE THEN RETURNED TO *

‘

wag |
ene
ucnrs . . +
axve :
: ‘ 13 Mer He
BLOOD VGZLG 2 R ALLELE

MOFRODUE _Y BY OTHER THAR THE ISSUING OFFICE WS PF _sOHTDD 5 aia BERET

SECRET
: 7



OUTGOING MESSAGE:
sams penton

6 o oc oa

- CONF: m0; PLE cael Dissem BY:
ror) O snamee ran
- ~ Domes

SANTIAGO AND. WAS ARRESTED two WEEKS LATER. ¥
i B. BOSCH WAS ARRESTED ON 15 FEBRUARY ENTERING COSTA RICA
i WITH A FALSE PASSPORT AND CHARGED WITH PLOTTING TO KILL SECRETARY
|| OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER, PASCAL AND BRUSSIER. NO TRIAL WAS HELD
AND BOSCH WAS LATER DEPORTED. HE RETURNED TO SANTIAGO AND

aun Ce INPO ON THIS ALLEGED DINA~CUBAN EXILE CONSPIRACY wAS
SUPPRESSED DURING THE SEPTEMBER 7b FEDERAL BOMBING TRIAL oF OTERO.
| EN JACKSONVILLE. WHEN OTERO STARTED TO TESTIFY ABOUT HIS * ACTIVITIES
In CHILES GovT PROSECUTORS OBJECTED THAT IN 0 was, INmATER 1
: “‘BONBING is ARES . OTERO was FOUND. INNOCENTS HIS TRIAL ON. RELATED.
STATE CHARGES WAS TO BEGIN IN MIAME ON HoNDAY 48 NOV? BUT BAS
ORDERED POSTPONED UNTIL EARLY 3972. ¥. 1
De  TERO HAD LIVED IN BEBFLORIDA UNTIL LATE DECEMBER 2975

WHEN HE WAS TOLD BY FBI INFORMANT. THAT FBI WAS PREPARING TO HAVE HIN
INDICTED ON BOMBING CHARGES. OTERO THEN VENT TO DOMINICAN REPUBLIC :
WHERE HE WAS ARRESTED AND PAROLED- WHEN MIANI FEDERAL GRAND JURY

"RETURNED INDICTHENTS AGAINST OTERO
le ayes se i Ee i; . H
omar . eae
on:

-

REPROOU — ov omen HAN Tue Tssuik soba Ter

eheaocet mm Fy
SECRET stiches Ol 6°E 2 IMPDET

el BY:

APPARENTLY REMAINED THERE UNTIL GOING TO CARIBBEAN TO ORGANIZE CORU. ¥



OUTGOING MESSAGE

thes .
7 srenascanryevee ont
fal tae eee en
one. 9. ~O eo oa o Qo 0
polio
SECRET
Wevenen maneune morearon pore Met ares . om evanaing meena eaaenest
STAFF DIRECTOR ‘
i a Dawes ‘DtS8EM BY:
cone: ro: FA Oe
: i AMS D wre Pan
——_ Dene @
UITH ALLEGES THAT OTERO WAS TOLD THAT EF

VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES MOVED TO ARREST HIM. HE COULD RECEIVE ASYLUN”
WITH NEU CHILEAN AMBASSADOR. WHILE IN CARACASs OTERO ALLEGEDLY
TOLD HAT HE HAD COMMITTED THE BOMBINGS IN MEANT AND
[passe THIS INFO TO FBI.¥ i
: 2. MUCH OF INFO. ON PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER APPARENTLY
TAKEN FROM 25 FEBRUARY 39% FBI REPORT WHICH COULD CONE FROn( __—|
. [WAS Source: oF NuneROUS SECRET SERVICE REPORTS DURING
KISSINGER VISIT TO CARACAS IN FEGRUARY 7 ON REPORTED APTENPT BY
‘BOSCH TO KILL KISSINGER. ONE SECRET SERVICE REPORT INDICATED THAT”
HAD PROVIDED LEGAL ATTACHE WITH RELIABLE INFORMATION

IN THE PAST.¥

3.A- FILES 202-2848)}_ 203-299292. E2 IMPDET.d

AYE:
onic:

7 ofressie meg :

om 247 SALE REGARD
a (aa adiasbucl Pepe 8H
, alba CALAIIICA roms
ren eset Paik ae
anpenaunes REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSt g2 impoet
cL BY:
SECRET mace



. oN 2832524 CIAsDD0
conr: c\y AQ Keo. me « \

“yt \:

TOL PRIGTTY POYEAL UURCAU OF LNVEATIGAT LS
GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION. ¥

SECRET VARNING WOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND MCTH
INVOLV. D-NOT RELEASAGLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

: 3
CIR 3M /O42 4b Ts :
aM UNTO MAY HAVE BEEN OBTALNE) RY

‘)
suavecs -L’ request ¢
DURING INTERROGATION Gi ROLANDO __ :

uPCaU GF TNVESTICS

MAY GLO

ANDEZ Ite

TEENY PERTINENT DLP ORMATION f
ELES AND THE CHILEAN |
. i ae OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE {DLNA} THAT MAY HAVE o sept |
sate | DEVELOPED BY YOUR OFFICE IN THE INTERROGATION OF ROLANDO O TE 2 0
: ERNAIDEZ IN MAY L4Y7L- THIS INFORMATION IS NCEDED IN ORDER To iealee |
THE| pt THE COLLECTION OF INFOKMATION POSSIOLY
RELATED TO THE SEPTENBER 2975 pomarnc! DEATH OF FORMER CHILEAN

“ AMBASSADOR TO SHE U-S- ORLANUO LE V.E LIE Re
! @ CLASSIFIED BY RECOKDED REPCRTING OFFICER. ay; wi GaScas

| 2.
i
I NPLET ed FILE: co0-32-20072 Mee be
i = - 7 Gd Tie Ey) a
j onic:
Do xo? DEstsoy

|
I
'
:
i
i
t

na ceasernea
E 2 WPDET
Co mvs VINIET :



onr oO

* aasbeaties °
Menrete Stee UR Ie cRittn i : i
BOORAOE maDEoed meee re toe Gate tnt OfOUR om fod means te rinebont d magma so
STAFF . " leaawaz —- DIRECTOR 442799
woe O1ssem BY:
mo mone

cow fB—mtes me 70h) tar he ed.

cermve 98

one

To: prrority| «| ¥ ot L
UNINTEL ¥ a a 28 ¢/ a
s992

REFS A. EMBASSY tececranl___—| S OCTOBER 1976

PASCAL ALLENDE. WOULD APPRECIATE ANY INFO ON DINA-CUBAN EXILE

i
B. DIRECTOR 122297 ; i
ae €. DIRECTOR TuRZb5 ¥ : :
i 3. IN VIEW OF 12 NOVEMBER 1976 ARTICLE IN "WASHINGTON POST™ '
| gerne revaveo }s DEALING WITH ALLEOGED DINA PLOT TO KILL
i
}

ett

F

aaa CONTACTS» ESPECIALLY THOSE RELATED TO REFS A AND Ce ¥
Piece ’
i B. FILES 15-S-. 202-299292. 202-264813- EZ INPDET od

LA COMMENT! A. ALLEGED ANTI-' CASTRO cusan exILe contacts In a a
CHILEAN GOVT~ ;

B. REQUEST FOR. INFO ON REF Ae

Ceo EXTRACT FROM FBI REPORT OF 4 NOV 7b OW VISIT
IN EARLY 75 TO CHILE BY CUBAN EXILE AND HIS

CONTACT WITH "PATRIA Y LIBERTAD.”

|

t

oars: 32 NOV 7b ee ay [erase vice ey
ORIG: = a | hia
See ta7 d eitees af : #93
axt: 47 de Y iia

po KOT DES

j sesame orowee comes emesis H
| eieiiaiieenl REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED —e2 IMPDET it

eisai Gt otal i af, sseseuuueeaints CL BY: O285S2 i

ae meet Spa eee Sees en mt me



t

: =754063 E1NO62 PAGE 01-01 cNcseass :
ToRs2721562 Oct 76 Lose 22
“'P 2723422 oct 76 :
FM DIRECTOR, FEL
7 i) RUEALIN/OLRECTOR, Cla ae aye
a : :
SECRET

ve -UNSUSSS BOMBING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMaaSSADOR ‘te UsSes
OALANIO LETELIER, ETs Ales WASHINGTON, DiCee
SEPTEMBER 21, 1976; PROTECTION OF FOREIGN OFFICIALS © MURDER,
» « REURTEL CITE CIA/DDO 932557 AND CIR-316704346-75,
THE Foy DID NOT DEVELOP. ANY INFORMATION DURING THE THTERVIEM
OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ IN MAY, 1976, THAT WOULD DEVELOP
CONNECTIONS BETWEEN CUBAN EXILES AND THE CHILEAN DiReCroaate OF i
NATL AL INTELLIGENCE (DINA), FOR YOUR INFORMATION, & POSSIBLE
ONNZCTION BETWEEN CUBANS AND DINA WAS NOT PURSUED DURING THE
ANTEAYIERS oF OTERO,
CLASSIFIED BY 6419, XGDS 2 INDEFINITE. .
Xgps 2 : Deere ere etueat

i‘ .
- : . sEcRET
pSSeeSastanaeineeagraere Fan tnagen eager egeeeoceptrece geese ana uagatdanaarcejaer gence ferqaungyyaaasaatasaebeanunEOOAEEIESVIS i

? ee NRL AD



on Ae

EE tect ngage,
ao —- pity ! “ely
:) : a . SECRET, = iJ
]] reavonstineswes nde oy na pane me 2s meee oan - ord
{ AULNCY WE SDALE :
| gprs core ona aver ppeeitad Piceeaeeteey Uoateeeasives ecru eeetmeanee secre eee aee cee
i 1] rns, VR, eines P5/202, Uyan, uD, OPS/INT $4 C1 My : ite piers
SC on ieee ot en
“Berea LSS My OSCE 2 ent eee A eoeeeae
' °
: PAGE O2 IN 077749 ’

T 325938 ELAZ66
- ToRsze14e42 OCT 76

$ & CR ET 2214132 OCT 76 INTEL DB- 35/105 7-7
| 10.772 3s
Cité 35326
q i Tera .
Tor DSRECTOR INFO
WNINTEL : :

| SUPQATA: 2RWAHDO FOR HGS REVIEW. PLEASE CALL THE INFORMATION

“Els meen NW THIS REPGRT TO THE ATTENTION OF AMBASSADOR i
' SOURCE PARA 3-4 15 FUDDUBLE*49) PARAS 67 5S |
FUBARGAIN TAKEN FROM (peta ano sasore |
RELATED-T0 ODsALA. NOT PASSED LOCAL LIAISON, a :
INDEX? BOSCH AND OTERO. CL BY 04069. . :

: FILED 15-5eas4,° Sciatic
FILED ¢ 2214332 XXXKH - . bazet .
TTD CORENT! LIFTER CABLE SENT. SENT ELECTRICALLY.T0 S#S PER DESK ‘REQUEST.

“CROSS FILE COPY 702
201-,



ae

Intelligence Info: anaticn Cabs

NING NOTICE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

>
IN

VE INTELU

ote genvbne be Demers

PRIORITY
O79

JrATE/INR JCS/MC (OTA) CIA RACE SWO NDA TAEAS NSCS SOO NIG CHS PAGET OF y PAGES
(SY LETRD S02 IE EOI ogee te 18. a

< OPMBATIONS a
: FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
INTROLS STATED BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
crccremrerereereEeROIROEE | aT, NOT FINATLV' EVALUATED TATELUGENCE
QTE TORA pB-315/ a
SECRET DB-325/1057b-7

REPORT CLASS SECRET**WARNING NOTICE**SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NQT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
NATIONALS*<NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRAG TORY
CONSULTANTS i
COUNTRY! CHILE
Dol «= ts MIDeAPRIL TO NID-OCTOBER 1976
SUBYECT: ¢ INFORMATION ON CUBAN EXILE

i “LEADERS ORLANGO GOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO
ato ot (21 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. 10,272

SOURCE + SEE BELOW, i
de SOURCE GF PARAGRAPHS 3-43

HIS REPORTING IS FalRLy RELIABLE.

2. COMMENT: SANTiAGO EMBASSY TELEGRAM 10107 OF

29 OCTOBER REPORTED THAT THE CHILEAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN.

EXILE LEADER ORLaNGO BOS e he ERD WAS. Now REVIEWING ALL
TTS INFORMATION. PRESUMABLY IN LIGHT OF HIS RECENT ARREST IN

AFFAIRS HAD BEEN KEEPING AN EYE ON THE ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN

* VENEZUELA.)

3. nas ocroaer,[ «ASSEMBLED

SECRET

DIST 22 OCTOBER 197



fan)
7 ie £
y : iN 077749 :
i ‘ :
i ‘ : _ TOHRDB-315/1057b-%
i WARNING NOTICE :
H SENSITIVI: INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND’ METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 2° OF y PAGES
4 SECRET FURTHER, DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT 10 * .
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT, ee

Apleseipeation)

A FILE ON BOSCH AT THE REQUEST OF

THE FILE

CONSISTS MAINLY OF EXCHANGES OF CORRESPONDENCE BETKEEN THE
CHILEAN EMBASSY 3N SAN yOSE, COSTA AICA, AND THE FOREIGN

MINISTRY CONCERNING BOSCH'S ARREST IN SAN JOSE IN MARCH 1976, Z |
AND THE FACT THAT HE MAD CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS IN HIS :

POSSESSION.

| ;
4, THE DOCUMENTS INCLUDED & BIRTH CERTIFICATE, IDENTITY

GARD, TAX IDENTIFICATION CARD AnD PASSPORT, ALL IN THE NAME
THE PASSPORT WAS

j OF RICARDO RAMON DAV AN2 0 CERRUTI.
ISSUED LN CHILE IN 1966, AND HAD NEVER BEEN RENEWED. (SOURCE

COMMENT! CHILEAN PASSPORTS NORMALLY REQUIRE RENEWAL EVERY

i

i

i

- TWO YEARS,) THE PASSPORT CONTAINED ONE CHILEAN EXIT STAMP, |
i

|

i

DATED 1966» AND NO INOICATIGN THAT IT HAD SUBSEQUENTLY SEEN

USED TO ENTER OR EXIT CHILE. IT CONTAINED MANY EXIT AND ENTRY

i
STAMPS INDICATING EXTENSIVE TRAVEL 8Y ITS BEARER IN CENTRAL
ANERICA AND PANAMA, BETWEEN 1966 AND MARCH 1976, THE PASSPORT
e fe Los

‘AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION WAS SHOMN TO CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS i

IN SAN JOSE BY COSTA RICAN oFFicialss HOWEVER, THE COSTA
RICANS DID NOT GIVE THE DOCUMENTS TO THE EMSASSY OFFICIALS.

ae ee :

L



|
|

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES.

‘SECRET

setaseificatton)

5. SURE oF

WARNING, NUTICE
\D METHODS INVOLVED

~

“

iN 077749

TOFIRDB=32S/20576-7b.

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USC OF THIS INFORMATION. SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATCD AT OEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

PARAGRAPHS 6°73

6. IN MI-aPRIL 19764 THE DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL

INTELLIGENCE 3EINAD RECELVED INFORMATION THAT BOSCH “HAD JUST

ARRIVED IN CHIGE WITH A CONTRACT TO ASSASSINATE A HIGH LEVEL

CHILEAN GOVERNSSAT

OFFICIAL (UNIDENTIFIED),

BOSCH EVAZED AN ARREST ACTION ON 10 APRIL, ESCAPING

BY A MATTER DF MINUTES BUT LEAVING BEHIND ALL HIS CLOTHES

AND TWO PASSPORTS,

7s ON 2) APRIL» DINK» HOWEVER, SUCCESSFULLY APPREHENDED
G HERNAND ER. aN ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH. WHO ALONG

RoanDo QO TERG

WITH THE LATTER KAS WANTED AS & FEDERAL FUGITIVE IN THE UNITED |
STATES, IN EARLY MAY, DINA INFORMED THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATION C32) OF OTERO'S ARREST, AND SUBSEQUENTLY

TURNED OTERD OVER TO FBI AGENTS FOR RETURN AND PROCESSING IN

THE UNITED STATES,

COMMENTS braze ( TDFIRDB-3LS/

OM - Mh

REPORTED THAT OTERO WAS PLANNING TO ASSASSINATE

CHILEAN MARXIST EXTREMIST. anoReS PASCAL ALLEANDE, AND

THAT HE was RORSING \WWNDER THE SPONSORSHIP OF THE CHILE AN

GOVERNMENT, DiNa*S ARREST AND: DEPORTATION TO THE US, OF

SECRET

|
|
!

|
{
i



HI
waxed

4
4 =
| fee
i + He iH EH b
i 44 cea = Pia
; \ My
if \ IN 077749
' YOFIR: DB-315/10574-%
- WARNING NOTICE
: SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOUVHCES AND METHODS INVOLVED PAGE 4 OF PAGES
; SECRET | FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO : :

CONTHOLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND ENO OF KEPOKT,

i
: aug iat pees

: 0 teiaustpostions

QTERO RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT TRE ALLEGATION OF CHILEAN
GOVERNMENT SPONSORSHIP OF OTERO AND HIS GRoUP.)

&. FIELD DISSEMs SENT TO

REPORT CLASS SECRET *<HARNING NOTICE==SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND KETHGDS INVOLVED@eNOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
NATIQNALS=eNOT RELEASAGLE TO CONTRACTORS 0R CONTRACTORY

CONSULTANTS

CLASSIFIED BY RECURDED REPORTING OFFICER, xGOS-L, 2.

oe ania ee
ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR JCS SUS NSA SS/ID FEI TREAS

¥

sae .. S

<e CEAPOPSCEN. ete . fe

bebceutacstetd SECFET soy . ;
p 1 - fs sian ha t
; 7

ee te nmr atm otis sae eae tata



CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 25 AUGUST 1976.
CIASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN-
SURJECT: FRENTE DE LIRERACION NACIONAL DE CUBA

(FLNC) fee
FRI FILE NOs 1035-21892 (NIAMT)



}
i

1

to sea *
pnw. on

come sec onsew ov 2 eee,

(aeuma oF

PEasONnMT MONEE,

torent cory maueo natty Lf a, oe
erect wtleeeeenasd <iplait d CA
eos 4 — oa es “#

7 03085 Blass

SEC RE T 0720032 MAY 76 STAFF
Cite 34309 6 ACTING)

TO IMMEOTATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE PRIORITY

FUBARGAIN MASP IKE
REFS 34147 Cap eased)

1,

ro
DINA (CHILEAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE) -

ARRESTED ROLANUO OTERO HERNANDEZ 29 APRIL AND HOLDING HIN |
INCOMMUNICADO PENDING DECISION RE DISPOSITION HIS CASE.
: 2. DETAILS NOT YET AVAILABLE TO IDEN BUT UNDERSTANDS

‘ooc CHARGES AGAINST UTERO WEAK AND PROSECUTION UNCERTAIN,
HE ATTEMPTING OBTAIN THINKING OF SUPERIORS GUT IN INTERIM
AUTHORIZED ABOVE BE PASSED FEL.

3, APPRECIATE HOS INSTRUCTIONS ASAP PERCHANCE GOC
DECIDES RELEASE OR EXPEL OTERO.

4, FILES 202-206811, E2 IHPDET.

i i [RECORD COPY] Cor tl PPYSU
7 Mey Fb

SECRET

ewmopuction By Oram yA
re

8

wr d

jai


i.

fa) .
Fedo see onscew ov 22 Foes rom coven, Oy
pes TT tacani ej
£ stingonumir more, eee
; ;

PAGE O41 IN 914829

TORI2622162 MAY 76 34313

8G CRG T Beee8z HAY 76 STAFF

Cité 34313 ACTING) =|

TOU INMEDLATH DIRECT YR,
PUSARGAIN MSP IKE

AEPSI Ay OIAECTOR 054972 i

: aa 34309 Ge 7/3868)

i Ge 34447 QuaqySeP) :
i te IDEN REF © ADVISED RE FEDERAL WARRENT AND REQUESTED
"ARWAL PROCHES GE INITIATED WITH INVESTIGACIONES. IN ORDER —
ALSO REQUESTED

THAT INFO OTEROS ARREST

2, FOR SUGGEST LEGATT TOUCH BASE WITH

hpon wis saatvarl FOR

BACKGROUND BRIEFING.
So FILEL 201-2eeeaa €2 rHPOET.

tf - BPYIG
F Wty Fé



Fit
a0 Cor ors och /a/ pun ey

i
ee ee ee

4

iY Bie2te e152 PAGE 01-01, : TN 81266 "
i :
1

TORSC619C62 APR 76 : LMIM 24564

SECRET Uo1es32 APR 76 STAFF : .

CITE LA/MLAMT 74566
Tot DIRECTOR, : eee
i Ream i :
| dy FBIVMEARL ASKS FOR CONFIRMATION OF. FORMER BKNERALD

virel-

: 7] 4 Bit eee
AFFILIATION OF Suber EXILES ROLANDO 0 T ao HERNANDEZ AND :
: '

INCLUDING POSSIBLE i

EXPLOSIVE/DEMULITION THAJNING INVOLVED. GOTH ARE UNDER
INVESTIGATION 6GR RECENT BOMBINGS MIAMJ AREA AND BOTH CLAIM

BE EX°BKHERALD. -
2. FILE DEFER, €2. IMPDET,

1

b64n7%
SECRET 201 -BP YPM

D281 BP

et ayn eg ot


deginniag in late 1960, Subject was a participant in the

. to the Departeant of State and to the Urited States Secre

eee aa BOR ee,

Director
Federal Bureau of Investization
ATTN: Intelligence Division.

FROM: Deputy Director for Operations
SUBJECT: © ROLAIDO OTERO, Hernandez :
ABA: OTFPD, Rolando

ROLANDO, Papillon

1, Reference is nade to your Feevest dated 5 May 1976
“for information reperding Subject's exployzent with this
liek and hig ‘énvolvement with the 2ay of Pigs invasion.

2, This Agency hed an operational interest in Subject

Bay of Pigs invasion and in preparation for this invasion, :

received commando-type training. Association and contact °
with Subject by this Agency was terminated in late 1962.> 4.
For your information, the contents of this paragraph was :
forwarded to our field station in Miani, Florida, -in wor,
1976 for passage to representatives of your Rureau in Marten |

3. For additional information concerning Subject
which may not be known to your Bureas, you are referred

Service. :
=—_l, :
“ Ginesgs017 08-76 .

mci. 1 name check
IP/EIS: t

BASED ON: DIRECTOR 835967 dated 8 April 1976
FILE IN-.: 201- -284811 -



: OUTGOING ‘MESSAGE
: 4

roma conten van ome
oak

oa we
onF O oO oO ao, 8 Q
SECRET — ‘ i
: etvseee mama esto one weresee leeence wanes
i STAPF fa 22532 sf OSG, asoqe
{ conr:( AD wnro: muh [fA An Job href sq 8 aaa oassen olf
| : chs fi OD omer PER
| Denn 2

* 708 IMMEDTATE oa s«d tro

| FUBARGAIN MHSPIKE ¥

REFS! A. 34309 [IN 9238681
8. 3424? LIN 6925b9! ¥ :
1. Gor HAS BEEN ADVISED OF OTERO'S ARREST BY DINA- FBI NOW
LeGatt.

TRYING ARRANGE HIS EXTRADITION THROUGH

Ae PLS ADVISE LecaTT[____—=JNAE OF

i
|

i

|

}

{

| CHILEAN SERVICE HOLDING OTERO SO EXTRADITION CAN BE REQUESTED. ¥
I: : ~ Be PLS ADVISE IDEN REF B OTERO IS FEDERAL BI
t

!

i

|

|

i

FUGITIVE AND EXTRADITION BEING REQUESTED. IF OTERO RELEASED REQUEST
ADVANCE NOTICE HIS IMMEDIATE DESTINATION AND ONWARD TRAVEL FOR Fer"

HONITORING. ¥
@- FILES 202-284833- E2 INPDET.d

v erenne cre

TUK
_ eernanem aaemooucron ar ommed mAEOOR DG OPE i peowores «= g 2 | MPDET
SECRET cL BY: 038952

en

: opssite -|
! pare: _9 MAY 397 TTELECOORDY
; ome i C/LASCAR/DR Lop. BPAE
i itt: KC7LATSO7CR CTELECOORDY
i or 3473 C/LAPRE 7 prey 76
H | ac/Larmecan
; A{TECETOORDF CHTA7SS
i



a

$aBEESLPAe"AsebsnapionbseinsonseyePatoleoy

‘ ny ae +
* : it : Hl
H

IMMEDIATE TRACES from FBI . i 5S May 1976

Name: ROLANDO OTERO Hernandez - aka Rolando Oter, J
—_ Rolando Paptlloa

DPOB: Apri. — { :
SS Number: ::

Claimed CIA employment 1960 - 1962 re Bay of Pigs as explosive - demolition
man and intelligence assistant.

‘Requesting any information 7 :
_ |
i :
/
\‘ |
¢ : |

oF
a
-

aV-A2EYF SY .

Eebgnanaessvageantatpisssnateas/igeReesspaquia¥etehatnastaes=tistenetoasastast¥oosedessss eatsteatisa/Qhisnientonsasttsheatenatistssi stensisssh/eefoaiqafsitRht SensEstEaS



Aaa

TATE: 25 MARCH 1976
CIASSIFICATION: NOT KNOWN

AGAINST CASTRO

(DOCUMENT AVAILABLE IN FILE 201-2!

TO SA/D0/0)

FR DOCUMENT (CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET)

SUBJECT: NOT KNOWN (RE CURAN EXILES TO ARRIVE
IN CARACAS BY JULY 75 TO EXPLORE THR
POSSIBILITY OF ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT

fhe z

84498, charged



VUlGUING IncZoAMEE ©
on

i ;
{ nee? . 7.
H

Monn CeMtam use omer :
aoe Paneer aaa nS

onr oO a Q o 0 o

P SECRET

4 eee esemenment nena oore netenee on eens cvremsexa

i STAFF : C42243Z DIRECTOR 63555? g
see

See eG gales ‘iPlan) ee

i 0 none ree SOP?

i O voce 2

TOt LA/MNIANI.Y
“KNETONE TRACE ¥
+ REP: LA/MIANE aushy [IN sar2ensl ¥ ey i
: 4+ FOLLOUING MAY BE PASSED TO PBI/MIANE:.
Ae ROLANDO © TE RO HERNANDEZ AND
UERE BOTH RECRUITED BY OKHECRALD In

: q LATE L960 AND PARTICIPATED IN THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. @KHERALD

Hy 7 CONTACT WIETH THEM DROPPED IN LATE 29b2- 80TH OTERO AND

| [__|RecerveD SkHERALD SPONSORED,"CONMANDO. TYPE TRAINING IN — |

| PREPARATION FOR BAY OF PIGS. ° fie orm.

I: user yer cr rrr IS SUBJECT OF NENEROUS Fer REPORTS In 3975 ots aie a

_ AND 297b. AND SHOULD BE WELL KNOUN TO FOI/NTANI. ¥
@- FILE 203-28449985 201-284813- 2 rnpoer. a

4

® FBI/MIAMI ASKED FOR CONFIRMATION OF FORMER BBKHERALD
AFFILIATION OF ABOVE CUBAN EXILES» INCLUDING POBSSIBLE
EXPLOSIVE/DEMOLITION TRAINING INVOLVED. BOTH ARE UNDER

A INVESTIGATION FOR RECENT BOMBINGS AIANI flatts AND BOTH CLAING.
“BE EX~BKHERALD« te

ROSS PILE COPY FOR

OATE:.8 APRIL 34976 oa e
“ome ; .| e01- ¥ :
UNTs LA/CAR/CART C/LASCY a ‘s 5

am 1497 DO BOT Di

LP, 7 eocummmarend SO. 808 :
£2 imecer

ercereence + REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE Kb PROMUAITED
SECRET cl 872032933

co


Lesa 13 ”
Psat das ig ae
J. secret

Pegs UN NOTED.

Lome apis oss BF.
‘

ae! ate ie i
Panay iaete PAGE 01-03

TORI1920252 MAR 76

mee@oouction ay
tenuis ovrice

EC RE T 19c912d MAK 76 STAFF c/ta/S8.
pe stars

CITE 33946
Tot PRIYRITY DIRECTUR INFO LA/MIAME Ss

TRACE

A, ON 19 MAR SUBJECT OF 201-626416, WHO JS A STATION LIAISON
CONTACT. REQUESTED TRACES ON ORLANDO O T ERO. SUBJECT CLAIMED

‘ OTERQ: IS CUGAN MEMBER OF UNKNOKN MIAMI BASED EXILE ORGANIZATION

! THAT HAS GEENINVOLVED IN BOMBING INCIDENTS JN MIAYI AREA AND OTERO
RUMORED [0 Uk IN CHILE, SPECIFICALLY WOULD LIKE PHYSICAL
DESCRIPTION, ALIASES. TYPE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS OTERO MIGHT BE USING.
pata ON HIS ChGANJZATION AND NAMES ANY POTENTIAL CONTACTS IN CHILE,
STATION TRACES JACICATE OTERO MAY GE /w ROLANDO OTERO :
HERNANDEE MENTIONED [_peass, NO TRACES ORLANDO.

2. «INDEX OTERO. FILE 283°826416. E2 IMPDET.

eae : a
| ee SECRET :
H : :



DATE: 25 FEPRUARY 1976
CIASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: CUBAN NATIONAL LIBERATION FROM (FLNC)

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)


OUTGOING | ME ESSAGE
2.

7 se mate :
onF oO Q a |
cane ee
Secret ? i
wieenat none noetO® arene anew, ow" wrensae merase unos
STAFF i 2300002 DIRECTOR | ie b2b7bS =)

mors‘ OISSEM Dr Us

come haS wa me chelaw, loPehTeY, a ae o)
- mainvento PER ,
0

‘ one @ UN
_ TOE PRIORITY INFO LA/MEAMIy ¥
eee i C/LA/SB_...
RYBAT MHSPIKE NHPROSE: ¥ DCVLA’SB
: 3 C/LA/E3
tA. 4 IN 4! .
REFS? A 33948 | ba443] C/LAYS3y

B. DIRECTOR 40748

G [ jasoua JIN aezzcc!

Ds DIRECTOR 804S3L . ¥ :
Ls NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ORLANDO OTERO. ¥
2. AGREE SUBJECT REF & INQUIRY MAY BE IDENTIFIABLE WITH ROLANDO
“HE DEPART-

. OTERO HERNANDEZ {201-284413) WHO SUBJECT REFS Bs C+ AND D.
: ‘ep SANTO DOMINGO 22 JANUARY 76 TRAVELLING ON U.S. PASSPORT NO.
AND PER REF C HE DEPARTED CARACAS -3 FEBRUARY 7b FOR SANTIAGO

ABOARD IBERIA FLIGHT- “HOWEVER H@S HAS NO INFO ON WHAT DOCUMENTATION
HE USED ON CARACAS*SANTIAGO\ LEG OF TRIP. OTERO BORN 18 APRIL 42 IN
MARIANAO. HAVANAs CUBAs AND ‘Is DESCRIBED PARA 2 REF C AS WHITES

FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES TAcLS 2S iso pe BROUN EYESs BUSHY DARK BROWN

| HAIR. PLS NOTE THAT UE Bae PASS DEROGATORY INFO. ON

TO LIAISON boat SINCE HE REPORTEDLY U.S. CITIZEN. ¥

j
: ae : 3. SHOULD THE LIAISON CONTACT ESTABLISH ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ
; are: 22° MARCH 2476
i ‘ORIG?
; UNITE
A ext:
'
: oases osmaee CoCAORA TES Ore ERE ITNT LAS OFLER

: : REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO = <2 = IMPDET.

Secret : CL ey; Obeas2

ra
g



he

OUTGOING MESSAGE.

bomen conten uae omy

AS IDENTICAL TO THE REF A INQUIRYs SUGGEST STATION DIRECT ANY FURTHER
 aufares FROM THEN RE OTERO TO APPROPRIATE EMBASSY OFFICER. YOU MAY
ALSO UTSH TO ADVISE LEGAL ATTACHE OF, REF A INQUIRY ON HIS NEXT TRIP

TO SINCE OTERO IS FEDERAL FuGITIVve. 4

€2 INPDET ed

4G FILE? 20L-S2b4)b5 203-264611-

oare: 22 ARRCH 2176
onc

. i oe - oe oe we wo ow
onrP oO oO a a a oO 0
SECRET
lntviit eanexene ested care res ane on
STAFF | DIRECTOR |
cone; INFO: FILE

weseauemaracence manos

D moe 1SSEM BYt
$2057 on DISSEM BYE

aurense PER

OPS/ITG ~
ums" C7CA7SB7CH » TETELECORDY
om 1473 C/LA/NE =
TELECORDY
: DC/LA/CARR-
. CES 7 cootonatas eoveien einawnaaene onenee
eeerearce nernonucrd ve ja TaN THE sume orice PRO Oe 2

SECRET

“iMPDET
ct BY: gisqsa



nie ES Stine

U,8, SECRET SERVICE DOCUMENT

usss 8738 .
DATE: 13 FEBRUARY 1976
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ALLEGED PLAN TO ASSASSINATE 220,
KISGINGEX IN VENEZUELA



a WKSCARLET@$ (SEE 2910910" aioe GeuceTIVEs dete

~ 3 ww

“pease os ZB ree. ACR, Ot cots
7-2

t cowe
cariarats

PAGE 1 In 628992
| TORN4721372 FEB 76 29119
! SECRE tiperoee Fee 76 INTEL TDFIRDB-315/014%-7%

CITE 29319

TO! IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO

INTEL WHLOFTY
SUPDATAS #RWAWOO FOR SOURCE DESCRIPTION. wo SD jaca

NOT FOR PASSAGE LIAISON, INDEXt PASCAL, CASTRO.
OTERO, BOSCH. FILE DEFERRED. CL, BY e59e20.
FILED 6 1721002
{TID-COMMENT: LA DIVISION REPORTS OFFICER CHANGED BYLINE BY DELETING: "HIS
RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.” AND INSERTION OF ANOTHER

RELIABILITY STATEMENTS HE ALSO DELETED FROM t
PARA 2 AND INSERTION OF "ANOTHER OTHER” THERE. LIFTER CABLE SENT.}

= : ;
chee : .
c: | |

TE GL 9832 Zf

an ig ae bf ad SG i



: se women AN : ~
: SECRET (When Pilied fa) :

_ . i oPRIOKITY

Intelligence Information Cabl ‘

WARNING NOTICE IN 826592
SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS-INVOLVED

statt/ive ay Clay é
Baye es mg tat Sra a —_ MKC/b 4G MIO cts PACE 1 OFZ PAGES

»
Se ercttn Seta State Sica etd te 00 ttm

| FURTHER DISSEMINATION ANO USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

: CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF &1.PO)
nl i =—~THIS 15 AN INFORMATION REF ORT, NOT ANALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
SECRET CMTE TDAR D8-315/01s a7
.. _0IST_1? FEAMINRY 197%

REPORT CLASS S EC & E TeHARNING NOTICE*SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED~=NOT RELEASEAGLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS@o
NOT RELEASEABLE 10 CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACT OR/CONSULT ANTS

1 COUNTRYI
: DOL «46 FEBRUARY 1976

: Suuyect: POSSIGLE ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF A RELATIVE OF FORMER
: PRESIDENT SALVADOR ALLENDE

. i 7.
i aga a [= CA? re @nuany 4976) FreL WO. }7328

SOURCE t
i : HEIs A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.
oe oy “ANT [> CUBAN GOVERNMENT EXILES ARE CURRENTLY IN CARACAS,

VENEZUELA, WITH THE INTENTION OF KILLING LUIS ANDRES PASCAL

ALLENDE» A RELATIVE OF FORMER CHILEAN PRESIDENT SALVADOR H
ALLENDE, (SOURCE COMMENT! PASCAL'S EXACT CONNECTION WITH
SALVADOR ALLENDE OR HIS CURRENT ACTIVITIES EN CARACAS ARE UNKNGN.)

2. THE ATTEMPT AGAINST PASCAL IS TO BE CARRIED OUT BY
< Se ROLANDO 0 T E R O HERNANDE? AND OTHER MEMBERS OF
_ CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, ALTHOUGH IT 1S UNCLEAR AS TO KHETHER
- OTERO KAS ACTUALLY ARRIVED IN CARACAS. HE 1S EXPECTED TO BE IN
CARACAS BY THE EVENING OF 17 FEBRUARY 1976.
SECRET

ey


iN 626992
Tor D8-325/01b5b- A
. : WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SONIRES AND METHODS INVOLVED. Pace 2 OF 2 PAGES
SECRET FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
‘ tt CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

3. THE CUBAN EXILES CLAIM TO BE WORKING UNDER THE SPONSORSHIP
OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT, FURTHERMORE. THE ATTEMPT AGAINST
PASCAL IS BEING CARRIED Gut BY THE CUBANS IN RETURN FOR UNSPECT~

ot SRA.

FIED ALD GIVEN EXILES SutH AS ORLANDO BOSCH
: AVILA. (FIELO COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT INDICATING THAT
; THE CHILEAN NATIONAL INTEQRIGENCE DIRECTORATE (DINA) IS SUPPORTING
; THE LATIN AMERICAN ANTICGNMUNIST REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL (CRAL)+
_ A CUBAN EXILE GROUP LED SY BUSCH, SEE 7283, FIR“312/81933~75

OF LATE DECEMBER 1975, y
4, FIELD DISSEM: EmBasS¥s DEFATT, SECRET SERVICE aT

RF

SENT 10

‘

EJesNOT RELEASEABLE TJ FOREIGN NATIONALS=~

SOURCES AND METHODS INVDU
NOT RELEASABLE T0 CONTRACSERS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS, ee
CLASSIFIED BY aecoRDED REPSRTING OFFICER, EXEMPT FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE QF E.0. 11682 EXEMPTION CaTEGORY SBC2).

IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE CF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION,

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TOt STATE. DIA, ARMY, NAVY. AIR, JCS. NSA, SUS, SS/1L
FRE. CLA/OPSCEN.

ond .* SECRET .

REPORT CLASS S E CR E TeeWARNING NOTICE*SENSITIVE INGELLIGENCE :



Fae

~ OUTGOIN”"NSSAGE

sonar comren ust omy

“oO a oO o 0

owe ene

STAFF 4223302 a ENO

cow: LA IS” mo: rue OFS Sates Asn
ee CASNTES iY Doo profe oWvo 2

TO: INFO } :

VULOFTY ¥

REFS: re DIRECTOR 603689
GB. DIRECTOR 404831 {BEING RELAYED
G 29049 BIIN 62220! ¥ :

SECRET SERVICE IH.

@0L748
D moe | DisseM Ory 7

eee)

0

n *
so VIEUAKISSGNGER'S. SOUTH AMERICAN TRAVEL CITED REF A AND
JEREABOUTS OF ROLANDO O TE RO

HERNANDEZ, SUGGEST SUBSTANCE REF B AND C BE BROUGHT TO EMBASSY

ERMANDESS

ATTENTION FOR SUCH ACTION THEY DEEN APPROPRIATE. {FYI:
LIMDIS EMTEL 2550 DATED 9 FEB

EMBASSY WAS INFO ADDRESSE ON
WHICH ‘STATES OTERO DEPARTED FOR SANTIAGO BY AIR ON 3

FEB ?be}¥

@. THIS IS PRIMARILY FBI/STATE MATTER AND ACCORDING FBI OTERO

IS NATURALIZED U.S. CITIZEN. HOWEVER, PER REF Ay SHOULD. ENFO RE
OTERO COME TO STATION'S ATTENTION, ESPECIALLY ANY INDICATION HE HAY

TRAVEL TO CITIES LISTED ON KISSINGER INTINERARY, NOTIFY H@S AND

APPROPRIATE STATION BY PRIORITY CABLE.¥

3. FILE: 201-2848). Ee IMPDET.d

unt: “CA7SB78CH
ext: 447),

7 EE
SECRET

61- RPYEL
Vt Bah 7g

|

RULE
— 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 938952



© camse see oraneu orf van LAE

fersoucrion
imagine orrice

PERaON Ut NOTIBNED,

_—anvance cary topueocmerteo AA
faction vst
t ' ae PRE vA

7

AS iy LL te

Stent fess fF

met
°| ertfre. 87 pve pire

: Y si5aie EL Asad pace Bi-0t "TN 823200
TORHALIS192 FEB % 47419
SECRET 1219092 Fey 78 STAFF
cite 17119
‘yon PRIORITY DIRECTOR. INF G
RERSE os a0cay CS AR200) :
f 8. DIRECTOR 684531 :
: ds EMPYWEX REPORTS twat Ropango 0 1 € 8 0 HERNANDEZ
BORN 18 APRIL 1943, TRAVELLING ON UsS. PASSPORT NUMBER i
Fe?96536s QEPARTED SANTO DOMINGO 22 JANUARY ON VIASA FLIGHT cS
797. is : +t
2. FILEL 264-0264641, 22-807, 22d-6r495. EZ IMPDET, “I
i
i

pt Lb Hh
1 PEN



LALLY”

“— guTGOINC

onrF 0 Qo a a

cunenaeton

SEC — .
* iota D more otsseM ays yi i
conn: CLAD me: me cll cfasmhe =  -
acne
clors lire . eloPs i /

ome 8 t

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

Tor “PRIORITY SECRET SERVICE//INTELLIGENCE DIVISZON.Y

S € CRE T--WARNING NOTICE +
METHODS INVOLVED=-NOT RELEASAELE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS.¥
Qoranvo OTERO HERNANDEZ -¥ :

SUBJECT:
iittala dee)

Bs THIS AGENCY QUERIED THE APPROPRIATE REPRESENTATIVES IN

REGARDING THE WHEREABOUTS OF ROLANDO

AND

; OTERO HERNANDEZ, AS REQUESTED BY YOUR SERVICE IN A TELEPHONE

CONVERSATION ON b&b FEBRUARY 197b- OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN
RESPONDED THAT ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE OTERO -

WAS ORGEDS EXPELLED FROM VENEZUELA TO SANTIAGO. CHILE. ON
IT IS POSSTELE THAT THE FEDERAL “BUREAU oF a8

3 FEBRUARY LS7b-
INVESTIGATION HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON SUBJECT.¥

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM
EXEMPTION

a
GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E-SEHO. LLbS2.

i
CATEGORY SB {2}- TnPOSSTBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC ‘

DECLASSIF

Jor~Q84¥Bu 4
we le :
1 cae. ?

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TNE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROMIBITED ir 4 IMPDET
SECRET Jeo e - Yisid— paa-9-# cl BY: c129393

oe!



eGeet aap segongye seston nteusnansssbegnoiaa

fos

OUTSOING MESSAGE

onr a a Q o. 30

ons tances muvenancemenen®

CIA i
pee oe “ Dm ostew on
= . = ,, mo mone
-- esd 3 Im
wed o . r
BASED ONE 2s04T-{IN 622200} B10 FEB 7b i
PIRECTOR 80NS3}4 9 FCO 7b

PROJECT? UXMAYOR {URSCARLET-92

OBJECTIVE: u

CABLE SEC: PLS MAKE COPIES OF THIS CABLE AVAILABLE TO IP/AN
FOR 2OI28NaT2N. ELRESTE 2OQ-b-49S. B2-9-8

se : srt asa : ;
yt cneag la ad pees i
| C/LA/NU/V ROBERT W. ANDREUS ‘RAPT
‘ <9

Ln 7

itd vee 2 IMPOET.
Gur aye 012933"



oe a
came one ones 0» 2D pen Ae 2

1

on aerate bee pute are AZ)
1S [ep Rt tt Lencipe
eel z} ABN, OsLTOS, 5A

200/20, O19 2
T 673208 etazoi + PAGE Of-oE

TOR:1e21162 FEB 76

ee muom UNIT ONFIEG.

SECRET 1021102 FER 76 STAFF

CITE 29949
Tos PRIORITY DIRECTOR {WFO PRIORITY,
VaLOFTY

REFL OIRECTOR 884531 (NOT DENT
°
4, ACCORDING WKSCARLET@9 ROLANDO O TE RO HERNANDEZ WAS

EVICTED FROM VENEZUELA TO SANTIAGO ON 3 FEB 76, LEGATT

COMMENTS THAT OTERO ARRIVED VENEZUELA FROM DOMREP 22 JAN 76,

WAS “ALLOWED TO LEAVE" VS. “EVICTED" aBOaRD IBERIA FULGNT TO 4

SANTIAGO» AND IT DOUBTFUL HE CAN BE GOTTEN OUT OF CHILE,
2. FILE! 201902846116 22-87» 200060495, E20 IMDPET.

D-422-8-7
Divce-6-495/4 Scene eiy  dero age git

co. RECORD COPY ] lo Kare.

Lo



oe.

OUTGOIN. \.gSSAGE

Dramat CONTEM YEE OM
fate tt

onF @ a 5 o oO a

: SECRET

Sige Mn aL a ao AO ae patojonoaaln

Lo stare ove3aaz DIRECTOR 604533
coms (AIS wo ma Sha SECURY csukna pea een

Ries TEA) ado come reac”
ANaAlacs G

TO! PRIORITY

WuLOFTY ¥ :
REFS! A. DIRECTOR 803889 |e]

B. DIRECTOR 705055 Ixe}

ij C. DIRECTOR 704047 [sea] ¥

; kb. FOLLOWING IS PER EMBTEL 325s

UARRANT BPOR ARREST OF ROLANDO 0 T ERO HERNANDEZ (20L-2548239

ISSUED NID-JAN 7 FOR FIVE PIPEBONG EXPLOSIONS WHICH TOOK PLACE IN

| MIAME 4 DEC 78. MIAMI FOI SOURCES CLAIMED SUBU FLEW TO DOMINICAN

|” REPUBLIC 4 JAN 7b+ AND ON 22 JAN 7b PROMINENT DOMINICAN NEWSPAPER
STATED OTERO HAD SEEN ARRESTED 37 JAN ON CHARGE OF VIOLATING

| PROHIBITION. AGAINST HIS ENTRY INTO DOM REP. IN CONVERSATIONS WITH

| FBI AND US ENB CONSULAR OFFICER. DOMINICAN POLICE OFFICIALS

| INDICATED DISPOSITION TO EXPEL HIM FROM COUNTRY AND TO DETAIN HIN-

1 UNTIL THIS WAS ARRANGED. US ENB CHARGE INFORMED APPROPRIATE

! DOMINICAN OFFICIALS {FOR PASSAGE OF INFO TO PRESIDENT BALAGUER} OF

i US INTEREST IN OTEROM'S RETURN TO US TO FACE CHAGRGES AGAINST HIN.

i

i

“ HOWEVER, POLICE CHIEF INFORNED CONSUL GENERAL THAT HE HAD ORDERS

para:
one:
nil

FJel-O 284 SH

+ D- "2 - 8-7 i fi
[D-d00-6- ee RECORD COPY Q HLH

eunnemcanen * om atenooucron ‘BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFAICE ES PRONIDITEO «= 2 | IMPDET
Ch ae

ereaee


OUTGOING MESSAGE

BromaLeswres vor ory
ot et

onr oO 0 a a o 6

SECRET 7
(emonses seme neeaton core met ome on sarees ees
STAPF DIRECTOR
conn: two: Fits : Peptic caucseinay
: ae :
_.Golt$31 a as oe
Diem

79 RELEASE OTERO AT NOON ON 20 JAN- US ENB REPORTED THAT AS OF 22
SAH IT HOT CLEAR WHERE OTERO LOCATED- ONE SOURCE REPORTEDLY TOLD
AIANT HERALD THAT OTERO HAD Lert THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. BUT NIANT
HERALD CORRESPONDENT UHO AT THAT TIME {22 JAN} IN SANTO DOMINGO

TOLD CONGEN HE HAD DRINKS WITH OTERO THE NIGHT BEFORE. No INFO SINCE

THAT TINE ON OTERO'S WHEREABOUTS. ¥

: 2- BECAUSE OF REF B AND C INFO RE OTERO'S ACTIVITIES IN

CARACAS, THERE POSSIUILITY HE MAY BE IN VENEZUELA AGAIN. IN Licit ‘
OF REF Ax PARA TWO. AND AT REQUEST OF SECRET SERVICE. REQUEST
ADDRESSEES ATTEMPT TO FIND OUT IF OTERO IS IN EITHER COUNTRY. HOS
_ TLL INFORM SECRET SERVICE or RESULTS. OTERO DESCRIBED AS WHITES
FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES TALL’ 350 POUNDSS BUSHY DARK BROWN AAIRS

BROUN EYES. ¥ -
3- FILES 2032-284633+ 22-8-7. 200-b-49S- E2vTMPDET A

SFBI INFO ON ROLANDO OTERO WHO BELIEVED SENT TO VENEZUELA OW
MISSION AGAINST CUBAN DIPLOMATIC CORPS THERE

SSADDITIONAL FBI INFO ON OTERO
SBEKISSINGER'S LA ITINERARY. PLS ADVISE OF ANY SUBVERSIVE O®

DANGEROUS PERSONS IN COUNTRIES TO BE VISITED | P

aa ag ae
cores rernooerio/ ar orn a mt BS Bort oh oT B32
SECRET



scien

eR

1 AMEMEASSY SALTO DOMINGO 325
A z 22 JANUARY 1976
3 CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
7 E OF ROLANDO
6 e} D IN THE U.S,
3 FED BUILDING

ts erg



>

OCU:

DATE: 16 JANUARY 1976

CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: ROLANDO OTERO HEKNANDEZ



CUTEONG 2

Geanan CLEA A ONE

(i a

wa reaucarermnceouaves +

705055 5
one wuss ure C2
pa

a
a
OD mrueweo PER
9

share

i come. pro: mee ae

chiro = Vi

pan 8

TO: Tro

HHSPLKE ¥ i!
REF: DIRECTOR 70404? Q .
A. SOURCE OF REF FURNISHED FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFO 3 June.

75% ACCORDING TO ROLANDO. oTEeRO IS.

IN CARACAS AS A "PATHFINDER™ OR ADVANCE HAN FOR GROUP OF CUBAN Exres
WHO ARE TO .ARRIVE IN CARACAS BY JULY 2975 TO EXPLORE.POSSIBILITY OF
AN ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO “Ruz WHO IS EX-
PECTED TO BE IN CARACAS FOR A CONFERENCE OF LATOIN AMERICA HEADS: OF
STATE IN JULY 1947S. THIS PLAN NAY BE A JOINT EFFORT BY MEMBERS OF
FUNC: ACCION CUBANA {ANTI-CASTRO ORG OF CUBAN EXILES LED BY ORLANDO
0 0.S CDH. CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST. BHO IS PAROLE VIOLUATOR BELIEVED ©
TO GE IN HIDING IN SOUTH AMERICA}. AMD BRIODGADE 2506 {ORGANIZATION OF

“AY OF PIGS VETERANS? WITH WHOn[ —=sES FRIENDLY. OTERO IS

TRYING TO OBTAIN INFO REGARDING FIGDEL CASTRO'S VISIT AND SECURITY
MEASURES PLANHED TO PROTECT HIN. OTERD RECENTLY SPENT SEVERAL DAYS
IN COLOMBIA BEFORE RETURNING TO VENEZUELA WHERE HE IS BEING CLOSELY

UATCHED

Bae CROSS FILE CC.
ona: , : LE CC.
uns : i)

en.

Tt DESTROY

coosemunes evecaee avminnesene someen

REPROOUCTION AY OTHER THAN INE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIAITEO = 2 IMPDET |
: CL OY:..e.08.

aeeneme onsen

err nes



Loy,

OUTGOING ME

a

NECRET .

nti gusoun nmeane = ostemet snows em eee
“STAFF . DIRECTOR | s
Po cone: iro: Fee ae fice ee
: i : : plese Umno
: ae : JOSOS5 OD mnenre FER

: baa
M_wensa _ #
{SIC}

WHO HAS BEEN INFORMED BY SOURCE OF OTERO'S ALLEGED MISSION. ¥
2, FILE 49-300-2b. 202-26464L. Ea. INPPET. dh

SADDITIONAL INFO ON ROLANDO OTERO AND HIS ACTIVITIES.

7
,
“DATE: ? f
a2 .
one: ;
our: age “|
‘ae LA/COG
| + &PS/ITC THURFERR
== Se a pe
seneasnoe ncenoo _10._. onifargantnersiomesornpes eo ge TORT
SECRET ncaa — : (Ct BY gosh



4 CASLE FROM DIRECTOR, FRI

4 TATE: 4 JUNE 1975

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ANPI-CASTHO ACTIVITIES
FRI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN

citadel



Corr reer)

STAFF 23002 DIRECTOR 704047 ;
seonr: £970 amro: me AY, Lan/ia, oPYy 1765, 4 a cree oisseM BY:
efor? cenanre PER
oo Done #
sO8 INFO iy i : mail

Le FOLLOWING RECEIVED FROM RELIABLE SOURCE OF
ROLANDO @ T ER O {20L-2848LL} {BORN 14 APRHIL 41. MARTANAO, HAVANAs i
CUBA}, BAY OF PIGS VETERAN, NATURALIZED U.S. CITIZEN fava tenes

MEMBER OF NIANE PARACHUTING GROUP KNOUN AS "GOLDEN FALCONS@=-CONPRISED
MAINLY OF CUBAN EXILES~-LED BY CUBAN EXILE NAMED FRANK ¢ ASTR Os

A LEADER OF THE FRENTE DE LEBERACION NACIONAL DE CUBA {FLNC}+ WHO
CURRENTLY LIVING IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. VISITED FRANK CASTRO IN
DOMINECAN REPUBLIC FOR TUO DAYS IN EARLY MAY 75- CASTRO GAVE OTERO
9250 AND TOLD HIM TO CONTAC A CUBAN LIVING
IN CARACAS, WHOM OTERO HAD NEVER NET. OTERO WENT TO CARACAS WHERE

: PROVIDED HIN WITH A ROOM AT CAPRI HOTEL AND PROMISED Te

ARRANGE FOR AN EXTENSION OF OTERO’S VISA AND FOR PAPERS TO ENABLE
OTERO OBTAIN JOB IN CARACAS. THRU INQUIRIES, OTERO LEARNED THAT TWO
CUBAN CONNO TECHNICIANS» LIVING AT TAMPA HOTEL INH -CARACAS, WERE
LOOKING FOR AN APPROPRIATE LOCATION FOR CUBAN EMBASSY TO BE ESTABENES-
BLISHED. OTERO FIRST CLAIMED THAT WHILE IN DOMINICAN REPUBLICS HE

DID NOT SEE HUMBERTO t © P/E Z. dR.» BUT LATER ADMITTED LOPEZ WAS

OATE®

onc:
une CROSS FILE COFY Por
urs fel-
ariccce Do NOP DE
enscns comneve evonomeren someone vrmewrmeanane coms
teaasoeenon REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN [HE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIETED «= 2 IMPOET

SECRET ct BY arora,



. omens, 0 be ied
OnF 0 0 it oO at 0 Q 2
SECRET
EERE tS oe eee ee ee
STAPF DIRECTOR
D meee DISAEM Or:
: ie
BVOHOWE 0 eee ren

oe (eee
THERE: LOPEZ, A LEADER OF BFLNC, IS A EFEDERAL BOND DEFAULT FUGITIVE

AFTER CONVICTION OF VIOLATION OF FEDERAL FIREARMS LAWS AND
JUMPED BOND AFTER CONVICTION IN A MIAME COURT ON CHARGES STEMNING FROM

AN ACCIDENTAL BOMBING IN MARCH 75 HICH SERIOUSLY INJURED LOPEZ AND
{FNUD, FORMER ROOM-

AN WASSOCIATE. ON 28 BAY 255
HATE OF OTERO IN MIAMI, SAID OTERO WAS IN CARACAS FOR AN "ACTION"
AND WOULD BE JOINED THERE SHORTLY BY HUMBERTO LOPEZ, JR- ON SANE

is | WHO LIVED WITH OTERO UNTIL OTERO LEFT

FOR DOMINICAN REPUBLICs SAID THAT OTERO HAD BEEN SENT 70 CARACAS BY
FRANK CASTRO AND WAS GOING TO "GET IN TROUBLE DOWN THERE-" BASED ON
ABOVE, SOURCE BELIEVES OTERO'S MISSION IN CARACAS HAY BE BOMBING
ATTEMPT OR ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAIBENST CUBAN DIPLOMATIC corps
MEMBERS IN CARACAS. SOURCE ALSO BELIEVES SBAND

NOT INVOLVED IN ALLEGED PLOT. ¥
: HE

* une:

ae i _ LAZCOG
bu OPS/IT C7URTURR

2. weeeRE LEGAL dasa HAS ABOVE INFO WHICH SPATEON
z : STATO :
NAY G23 DISCUSS WITH ae id

B+ FILER 145-300-265 202-284833- 2 INPDET-d ws. wt

onres a
bend LA/NU : .

aR

mmaeresres concen

orastne omen commemerns onan

Coasetessieat! REPRODUCTION BF bine} THAN JHE ISSUING OfFiLE IS dRoMIBITCO = g 2 IMPDET

SECRET er ee oe ct BY: clown
i . . ~ .

v

‘


Se

& eee a :
i

Ban

CARTE

F
E
"HOM DIRECTOR, b

DATE: 31 MAY 1975

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SURTECT: ANTE-CASTHO ACTIVITIES


7 sie r
teumlelln aed Matra a sd ree)
Ta aa Ta a

Tenn: pet 18-43

ROLAHDO

aay ae
Taw mad

Fame Watce Fina Ram GAVE, GATT AWD COUNTRY GF © TW Go Reon ETT DD COUNTRY GF BEBTORRER

Otero Folanto (Unknown) (Uninown)
Bernantes March 19-1919 Pirar dal Rio-Oube Mieni-Floride UBA,©

Srwter ano Myuatn

[1000 Univeraity Ave. New Yor

i York,
i Bia Hey Tork, A

fiers Bete patie

NO OBJECTION 1)
ve LS SFRCATION ANDIOR
Deas ‘OF THIS DOCUMENT



om NTs STATE
roncion AUNT or wee UniTED stares

ida ACTION REQUEST

Cl Security - v2 C1 Recommended by

. Sut
Cl owner - 21200) C1 Submitted at request

a0 Se ae Hivds, Los Angales 61, calif,

atid sts ean ntcistRaTion ho”
married
<5 aU ARATE Ta SA ei PHT =

Weetronic Asscobler « Packard Zell :icctrunis vorp. 12333 We Clywpic ilvd., los a
* [iar RATRORALINR Tlng Sornior Wag — Cale

PASSPORT

tssueo BY.
I MOTRERS WAICEN ant

“aria A, iternandss

pe: Tee se

Nol 2S wypsicleg fee
FILE IN 201- aor

ro



.- appmoven si REMERON
GIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAIM

Ee SeOatC? ITAL NAM TR aE = are

f= REQUEST FOR GeefM LIST
OTE=0-HHERUNDEZ, Rolando NAHE CHEK N® 130946

erg nuwees, CTC.

at a
TO cHNEF, FA/D

Derren Ricreat ing FF tele
16 April 1941, ii, Mariana, Cubs ia cae tapaaee
Pai cuten H OFF Ict oF sicsaton TI fope 388
SRESERT AT TT MRD OO es eters 8
ExTENstOW
TX, TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK Cary
OO Fiest rie suemerteo
© soot rioway oars
GR aecuicn FoR cumet at
Ta, iTtarst tm SubstcT (emtce Ot)
© tsetomct ov ce activity
© orreationae cieaeancr
OH ormre

SRCUPATIGNAL SPECIALTIES, EOUCATION

PAST ACTIVITIES IMCLUOING MILITARY SIRVICE

LOCATION

GOWER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) — ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEW NEEOLO

TESCHTATION neve TERT Teace Tormey

10. SPOUSE (iF WIFE, Give WAIDEN RAKE)

TH. OTHER MEMEERS OF TOEDIATE FAMILY ARD ASSOCIATES

12. URFORMATION PEGUERED. (ocr ine ‘SPECIFICALLY. ancl TERMS SUCH AS "OEROGATORY® MAY RESULT Im A SCARCH THAT DOES
NOT FULLY MEET REQUIREMENTS

AOI -AEY ELS -

INS . INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.
INSTRUCTIONS: SEND BOTH SHEETS TO F4/D. SEE CSI 10-7



i SECRET

ea 7

FROM: = F1/a

says SS
<8 CTD ste cons ite on susuter tn F1/0 aloceannic Fries,
A MEMORANDUM ES ATTACKED WLRETO,

METH THE LIMITED HDENLEICATION PROVIDEO IN THE REQUEST, F/O 1S UM
DETERMINE WHETHER THERE 1S LNFORMATION ABUT THE SUBJECT OR Hor,

except :

it to

OD. CORT) F170 Has mo rammed InFCRMAT ION ON SUBJECT, IF INFORMATION ABOUT THE
SUBJECT APPEARS AT A GATIR OATL, IT WILL OC REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES

AVAULABLE,

te (TT) tre sunsect oF THIS REQUEST 1S APPAREATLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOwiAG:

Previous Green List fron Wi/s, 21 Sep 60, op, Ob #10k574, NR

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE .

wnEW THE SUBJECT 1S NO LONGER IKPCRTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHECT, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION
NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SEAT TO FI/O,

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, ARD SCRD TO F/O THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE HO
LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO OCMAND A CORTIMUING MAME CHECK, PLEASE 00 NOT THE UP FI/O'S
FACILITIES WETH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT 1S NOT REQUIFCD.

wae ees
OFFICE DEStGnaToR
ROOM, BUILDING
@rasioy

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR
SECRET

THIS REQUEST



ro

7 SECRET

SEE OOSSIER OR SUBJECT 1m FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES,

A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HLRETQ.

WITH THE CEMETED FOENCHEICATION PROVIDED IM THE REQUEST, I/D 15 UNABLE FO.

THE SUBJECT OR KOT,

OETERMINE WHETHER THERE 18 LNFORNATION At

except
FL/D HAS NO PERDEXSO INFORMATION OW SUBJECT, IF INFORMATION AnGUT THE

SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATIR DATE, IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU-aS IT BECOMES
AVAILABLE,

THE SUMJECT OF THIS REQUEST 1$ APPAREMTLY THE SULJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE .

WHEN THE SUBJECT 15 NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET. WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION.

NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD OE SENT To FI/D,

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/G THE SHCETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE nO
LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTIRUING AME CHECK. PLEASE 00 NOT THE UP FI/O"S
FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT 1S NOT REQUIECD.

a
OFFICE DESIGRATOR
ROOM, BUILDING.
EXTENst08

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST
SECRET

