# 104-10186-10126

## Page 1

104-10186-10126

ANCORI

EPORT

INFORM. MON REPOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-'-R-E-T

SO FOREIGN DISSEM

' COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

Polte! Guidance Directives

for Cuban Intelligence

Representatives in Honduras

REPORT NO. CS-311/03392-64

DATE DISTR . 21 September 1964

NO. PAGES 10

REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. (June 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED IMFORMATION. SOUICE GRADINGS ARE DEPINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former. Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comment.

The following is a translation of

document provided by Source, containing the policy guidance

directive, of the Cuban General Directorate of Intelligence

(Direccion General de Intelicencia

intelligence representatives in Honduras.

- DG1), NA Department" 1A

Department no longer exists as such, having been diyided

into two departments:

Illegal Department (Ilegal) anc

National Liberation

Jepartment ( Liberacion Sacional - LN)

DIRECTIVES OF THE MA SECTION

COUNTRY: HONDURAS

IMPERATIVE

1. Collective action.

2. Situation of the

leftist forces.

3. The Communist Party of Honduras.

4. Counterrevolutionary

training camps and bases of operations.

5. Armed Forces.

6. Position of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.

7. Movement of solidarity with Cuba.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

4

8 eN

STATE

DIA

ARHT

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO =

, Nore: fold distridation indrared by "=="

MAVY

INSA

OCR

FBI

2

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

For Distription See attached Fase

LX-1701

SP (ANNUG-I)

CS-311 03392-64

COrALSIE 3, Cl21.

RID AN

1.

117!

SA 46

(5).

SK -U1A18

17/ 23 (31). AF 8 (8). FEN (102. FE 12 (8). NE 11 1191F7:9

KIT

osm

---

## Page 2

lidge's Dissem

WH/COPS

WH/PO/A

W11/PO/B

WH/1

WII/2

WHI /3

NH/3/V

WIl /4

WH/ 5

WH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/EOB

WH/SA/NOB

WH/SA/R

WH/SA/Int

WH/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/N$

CI/Staff

•CI Liaison

CI/R$A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PM11/1

FE/JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/LAS

NE/AA/AF

NE/AA/E

NE/NA/1

NE/S/P

NE/G/C& I

NE/Intel

NE/CI

WE/1

WE/2

said set pous

3

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

• 1a -

WE/3

WE/4

WE/5

WE/BC

WE/R

SR/CI

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WH

Joes found

1

1

1

CS-311 03392-64

30

nie ford found prod find

od pond front bout

joud good ford

1

1

Liaison Dissem

IE

L WaSHI

S-B-C-R-E

NO FOREIGN DISSE!

---

## Page 3

*.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 2.

CS-311/03392-64

3. Counterrerilutionars organizations.

9. ClA and repressive organizations.

10.

Relations with the USA.

11. Internal political lito of the country.

12. The elections.

13. The Church.

14. Internal situation of the Armed Forces.

• .

INPORTANT:

15. The Prensa Latina and its functloning.

16.

Functloning, characteristics, and data on the members

he Foreign service and of the Diplomatic Corr

accredited in the country.

NECESSARY:

17. Structure of the government and the operation of its

organisms.

18. The press.

19. Search for collaborators who would inform on the stat

of the National Economy

20. The frontier question.

INTELLIGENCE DIRECTIONS AND OBJECTIVES

COUNTRY: HONDURAS

IMPERATIV

1. COLLECTIVE ICTION:

a) Agreements made by Central American or Latin American •

organizations, in which Honduras takes part, directed

at collective military or political aggression against

Cuba.

Participation and preparation of the army which will

participate in the aggression; the number of men and

armaments which they have on hand.

c)

Secret or public meetings, political or military,

which take place in Honduras, in which the countries

Of the cone take part; the theme and agreements of

these meetings.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

1d-0d0d

S2-H--1

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1 3-0.

°5-911 03392-61

d) The government's plans for provocative operations

intended

to present the attack or the intervention

by Cuba an domestle questions.

•)

Joint military manoeuvres which take place in

Honduras.

Armles which take part in these,

strength.

Concentrations of foreign troops

in the country.

{) Agreements reached by the Central American armies

in order to act jointly in cases of wars for

national liberation.

Partieipation of Honduran

units in

operations of this sype.

8) Measures taken regarding trips to or froa Cuba.

h) Possibilities of a break with Cuba by countries

now maintaining relations with it.

2. SITUATION OF THE LEFTIST FORCES

• a) Political organizations:

strength, leaders. program,

relations

among themselves, ties with other

progressive organizations.

b)

The student movement: University Refora Front (FRU) -

organization, strength, leaders, relations with

progressive political organizations, the work which

they do.

Teachers' Front of Unity and Action: strength,

organization, leaders, the work it accomplishes.

d) Labor organizations:

structure, strength, degree

of unity, imperialist penetration, etc.

e) Possibilitles of spontaneous demonstrations.

f) Position of the Communist Party with respect to

the union

of the Central American parties

in relation

to the development of guerrilla warfare.

g) Other progressive forces: work, organization, and

strength.

h) Repressive activities against the leftist forces.

• 1) Propaganda media of the leftist forces.

1) Permanent and periodical contact with the labor.

student,

and teachers®

political organizations

of the left.

3.

THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF MONDURAS

a)

Position toward the Second Havana Declaration.

b) Position

on Cuban-Soviet relations.

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

- 5 .

CS-311/03392-64

b)

Counterrevolutlonars bases of operation in the country.

Ships or other type of war transport found in these

bases.

Localization of counterrcvolutionary elements

who are at the head of these bases..

Plans of arcression

and their objectives. Dates of the departure and return'

of the ships.

It must be admitted that there 1s

confidential Information that llonduras is one of the

countrles which might be used against our coasts.

Elements of the CRC, during the crisis, went there in

order to co-ordinate the departure of these ships.

c)

Utilization of the camps and bases of the Army of

Honduras in counterrevoluttonary activities.

Presence

of Cuban

counterrevoluttonary elements in these places;

conditions under which they operate.

5. ARNED FORCES

•) Organization. Units'and strength. Armaments anc

transport.

Bases and quarters.

Leaders of the

Armed Forces.

b) Appropriations. Appropriation to each branch.

American

these agreements.

Points of

d)

Yankee military missions.

Number, names and ranks,

and function of their personnel.

Strategy they have

developed within

the Armed Forces of Honduras.

e) Units and effectives of the Armed Forces, available

in the CDCA.

1) Military units and strength with anti-guerrilla

Fraining time of these units

Armaments

and transports.

Officers in command. Combat preparation

Bases of these

Location.

!) On er special battalions; for example, RANGERS. Data

on these.

h) New arms acquired by the Armed Forces. Characteristics

and quantity.

1) Changes introduced in war materiel.

6. POSITION OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION

a) Toward the Second lavana Declaration..

With regard to Cuban-Soviet relations in matters which

affect

Cuta

and World Peace.

c)

with regard to the accusations

that Cuba is a Lase

of Communist aggression

against

the Latin American

Continent.

S-E-C-R-E-T

YO FOREIGS

DISSEX

---

## Page 6

S-E-C-RET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

- 1=

05-911/03392-64

osition toward the Iines followed bj Cuba in th

atlonal and Internatlonel political

order.

Position in relation to the confiietg

in the

International Communial Movementa

l. In the case of China and the USSR.

2. In the case of Albania and the USSR.

3. In

the Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania question.

1. In the peace problem.

5. In reference to poaceful co-existence.

o) Internal altuation of the Party:

1. Strength; areas of greatest influence.

2, Leaders (Data on these leaders.)

3. Disagreements, Arguments of the different groups.

f) Relations with the Rovolutionary Party.

s) Relations with other loftist organications.

h) Work in the mass organizations.

Influence in

these organizations.

Work in the rural areas.

1) Lines of strussle officially adopted ts the Party.

" Relations atte the bourge cantley. Participation

the political life of the country.

k) Work of solidarity with Cuba.

1) Position with respect to the unification of the

Central American Communist Parties

in relation

to the development of guerrilla warfare.

Media of publicity of the Communist Party.

. n)

Establishment of perranent and periodie contacts

with

this

party.

o) Attitude toward guerrilla warfare in Central

America.

4. COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY TRAINING CAMPS AND BASES OF OPERATIONS

a)

camps; training camps

Trujillo.

haracteristics of these camps

training

and

its duration.

umber of mercenaries

Counterrevolutionary organizations who participate In

the

training.

Elements of these organizations who are

at the head

of these camps.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 7

S-E-C-H-F-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

• 6 m

CS-311/03392-64

7. THE SOLIDARITY MOVEMENT VITI CUBA

a) Learn 1f the solidarity movement has an organization:

how does it function, who are lis leaders, etc.

b)

Learn the possibilitles of active demonstrations of

solidarity of the progressive organizations.

8. COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

Delegations of counterrevolutionary organizations

functioning in the country; their

leaders and

Contacts with political parties through

which they get established.

Contacts with the Yankee

Embassy and CIA.

Persons entrusted with these

contacts. Contact with the government of the country.

b) Contacts between Villeda Morales and the CRC in exile.

The element which maintains these contacts.

between the Minigtry of Foreign Affairs of this country

and the counterrevolutionary elements exiled there.

Activities of Lozada Montes and Evaristo Fernandez.

c)

Means of broadcasting counterrevolutionary propaganda

in the country; contacts of the counterrevolutionaries

with the heads of newspapers and radio

stations, the

help which they receive from

the latter.

Type of communication which exists between the CRC

in londuras and

that in Miami;

through whom are the

communications established; and, what medium is used

9. CIA AND REPRESSIVE ORGANIZATIONS

e) Activities of the repressive groups of Honduras

against Cuba

and the

National Liberation movements.

b) Coordination existing between

the repressive groups

of Central America

these actions; joint agreements

and plans; objectives; coordination meetings; place and

date in which

propositions are made; elements who

participate for the various countries.

c) Cuban counterrevolutionary elcments who participate

the repressive activitles; their names and

functions: actions which they may have carried out.

d) CIA, Yankec

o1 Mr. Donnangaders of the CIA in Honduras. Activity.

his plans, participation of the police

and repressive organizations of Honduras in his contacte

with them.

National elements who work with CIA, tasks

and functions.

Plans of these elements, office of the

CiA and places for training its nationalist agents.

e)

Recruiting of the CIA in Honduras for work in Cuba,

no time eno ca

the case of Ernest Roy Wenitzauer Morazan;

their names and plans to be carried out in Cuba;

training places for these recruits.

NO FOREIGN DISSESI

---

## Page 8

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEN

CS-311/03392-64

{)

Participation of the leaders of the CIA in co

ordinating the repressive activities in Central

America.

Elements of the CIl who participate

in the meetings.

B) Contact with the Interpol. Coordination with the

Interpol. Restrictive measures on trips to Cuba.

Agents.

10. RELATIONS WITH THE USA

a) Alliance for Progress. Peace Corps.

b) Relations with US credit organizations.

c) Political influence of the United Fruit Co. Means

of ideological penetration.

d) The US Embassy.

Data on the activitles.of the

Ambassador and on the Embassy personnel.

11.

INTERNAL POLITICAL LIFE OF THE COUNTRY

• The bourseois political parties:

strength.

propaganda media,

lesders masation them)

programs, internal divisions.

¡elations of the bourgeois political parties wit

he US monopolies, the Embassy, and the Church

c) Relations of the bourgeois parties with the

Armed Forces.

d) The anti-Communist campaigns: arguments, attacks

on Cuba, leaders.

e) The Fascist groups:

participation of the Church.

chuaniz tien venteent, eaders,

the Yankee Embassy.

{)

The secret fraternal organizations:

their relations

with the government, the Church, the monopolies, anc

the Yankee Embassy.

12. THE ELECTIONS

a) Candidates.

b) Electoral

activities of the bourgeois political

parties.

c) The electoral campaign of the government.

d) The activities of the Church in relation to the

elections.

e) Influence of the tanana companies and of the United

States in

the elections.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

---

## Page 9

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CS-311/03392-64

1) Attitude of the leftist forces toward the elections.

g) Attitude of the Armed Forces with respect to the

elections.

13. THE CHURCH

a) Ecclesiastic hierarchy.

b) Position and cortroversles ketween the national

and foreign clergy.

Participation of the Church in the internal polities

of the country.

d)

Secular organizations of the Church (such as the

Catholie Working Youth, Catholic Cavaliers, ete.).

e) The Church's campaigns against Cuba.

1) The Church's penetration in rural life, labor, and

youth.

Relations

of the US:

between the plans of the Church and those

h) Relations and influence in the Armed Forces.

1) Relations with the government.

k Influence in education.

14.. INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES

a) Data on the military leaders and on their activities.

b) Coup groups within the Armed Forces.

c) Ideological preparation for the Armed Forces:

Material and arguments used.

d) Data on soldiers belonging to international organi-

zations (JID - Inter-American

Defense Board, UN) and

of the military attachés in and of Latin American.

countries.

IMPORTANT

15.

THE LATIN PRESS (PL) AND ITS FUNCTION

a)

Activitles of the correspondents.

b)

Possibilities to use them for our work:

1. Use of the it services in the press of the country.

2.

Be PL. The i journe istic deficiencies

in the work

of PL.

S-E-C-R-F-I

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 10

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-9.

CS-311/03392-64

3.

Matters which are neither handled nor broadcast

properly (on events of interest and importance

happening in Cuba) by the Pl Branch.

4.

Suggestions and wavs on how to use or to imporve

the work of the PL Branch, in general or in

concrete forus.

16.

FUNCTION,

CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA ON MENBERS OF THE

FOREIGN SERVICE ASD OF THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ACCREDITED

IN THIS COUNTRY•

a) UN.

b) OAS and JID.

c) Officials in and of Latin American countries.

NECESSARY

17.

STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNMENT AND OPERATION OF ITS ORGANISAS.

a)

Relations between the Presidency and the Ministries.

b)

Function of Congress.

Most important figures.

Relations with the Yankee Embassy and the monopolies.

Representation of the bourgeois parties and of the

social classes.

c) Data on the people closest to Ramon Villeda Morales.

d)

The Judicial Power: persons in high positions.

Important laws.

Repressive laws.

Relations of the

Judicial Power with other powers.

e) Other government organs: their function.

{)

Necessity of obtaining collaborators who prepare

reports on the questions pointed out here.

18. THE PRESS

) Data on the newspapers and the broadcasting organg.

ossibility of utilizing the newspapers in the

country and abroad.

19.

SEARCH FOR COLLABORATORS WHO WOULD INFORY ON THE STATE

OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY

a) New economic policy

of the United Fruit Co.

b)

US investments.

c) Other capital (not US) and its influence.

d) Trend of the unemployment level.

S-E.-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 11

14-00000

20.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 10-

CS-311/03392-64

•) Relations of the country in regard to Central

American economie integration.

1)

Vecessity of obtaining collaborators who would

eriodically inform us on the economic questions.

SEARCH FOR COLLABORATORS MIO WOULD INFORM US ON THE

FRONTIER QUESTION.

•) Dispute with Nicaragus for the zone of Segovia.

b) The dispute for the Belize territory.

c) Frontier situation of

"Fonseca" bay.

Legal

and illegal entrance.

NO

FOREIGN DISSES

OREIGS

---

