# 104-10109-10379

## Page 1

104-10109-10379

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

0OC

(CATEGORY OF REPORT)

Los Angeles

(FIELD OFFICE)

128855-9855

DATE

00

E.

CASE NO.

#222918 • G.W. BoA. Inc.

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

0J9 September 1960 and

rde September 1960

OFMEE OF ORIGIN

Chos Angeles Fiere OFfici

REPORT MADE BY

13 September 1960

/ D83485

ADOSIES

ChiefiSSD

Dep Chief

A to Chic!

100.2.0

c.!.v. Br.

Ch. Sop. Br.

De:* 15°

Dest Sü-

had & Ties

Control Desis

CHARACTER OF CASE

222-5B/2

FINAL

APPROVED:

TolD. Whiteside

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE 12 OCt. 1960

DISTRIBUTION:

- 1

LAFO - 1

riles

FORM NO.

MAY 55

646

REPLACES FORM 38-109

WHICH MAY BE USED.

CLASS:

PRIORITY

(43)

---

## Page 2

FILE. NO. 222918

DATE 13 September 1960

SYNOPSIS

At New Orleans, Louisiana:

Guy B--,

Of SUBJECT company, 1e engaged in the

business of private Investigations of all types. The

extent of the operation le very limited and he appears

the present time. His office

located In a commercial, low-rent section of the city.

He office is on the first floor and is the only office

on this floor. Fle office is directly across the street

from the

main Post Office.

He left his Balter Building

i do Cupied St rot about el fourth 120m the

a four-story building, located in a commercial section

of the city and across the street from the Masonic lemple

which now houses many Ünited States Government offices.

Is general business reputation is good but it appears

that his business is not very sound.

His business was

Incorporated on 21 January 1958. He is President and

owns 470 shares of stock and his wife is Vice-President,

owning 10 shares.

The Secretary-Treasurer at the time

of incorporation was Joseph A. OSTER who owns 20 shares.

A Dun and Bradstreet report reflected that Guy B

hired one investigator, Veron Gilles, and the company

was not a financial success. A lien has been placed.

on the company and NSF (not sufficient funds) checke

have been returned. Four confidential Informants were

interviewed. They advised Guy B- was suspended from

his position as Assistant Superintendent of the New Or-

leans Police Department because he was involved in a

downtown bar incident. He was accused of being drunk

and of pulling a gun in public. There were many con-

flicting stories and favorable and derogatory newspaper

articles pertaining to the incident. Guy B--

-continued

REPORT. NO.

FOR NO 1125

---

## Page 3

suspension from

the Police

he was

Te instated In & different

Has lifted and

position with no

authority. He worked for buo

Hey Hand then restgned.

He then purchased.

a newspaper hatretna which hey

operated for about ayeer

andka halt. When he was the

oner of this paper he, as charged with defanation and

was acquitted on 29 March 1960.

See Exhibit 1 referring

to this case) He eventually sold the newspaper,.

probably Por financial

b, and began nie private

Dae Informant

policy is against desegregation

Guy Bree,

ratine has aslow." The credit records on Joseph OSTPR

reflected he

was employed as Vice-President of the

n, Research Company, Ince,

and earned between

812,000 and 25,000 Toert to hai three attomer.

accounts which were eventually paid. A credit report

on Vernon GIRDES reflected that he

was employed for an

insurance company and had been an investigator for the

SUBJECT company and other Investigation firms.

The Re-

tail Credit Company files contained additional back

ground information on both Joseph OSTER and Vernon GERDES.

Police records were checked in the name of buy Bin,

Joseph OSTIR and Vernon GERDES with negative results.

Herewith attached are Exhibits 1 thru B which contain

background information pertaining to Guy B----.

---

## Page 4

7222918

3 September 1960

REFERENCES:

At New or leanory Loulsianan

One 12 Seplember 1960 Confidential Informant II-17 was 1n-

LiBer proment an one cho outable information.

on seat be eat tanta sperintendent of the Mete i. 1955

Orleans Police Departments Pror to this appointment SUBJECT

had been an FBI Agent and had retired after 20 years! service.

SUBJECT had been hired by Provosty A. DAYRIES, Superintendent

of the New Orleans Police Department, for the purpose of elean

Ing up

p the police department which had been accused of being

D SUBJECT es

established a very good reputation as an

police official who had done an excellent

Lob ot cleaning op the department mtil he got met tim

trouble during the Mardi Cras in March 1957. At that time he

was accused of being drunk and starting a fight in a New Or

leans bar in the French Quarter.

MADE HE

The Police Department conducted an investigation of this

incident which received a great deal of publicity in the news-

papers.

incident. One was that the Police Department had framed, or

railroaded, the SUBJECT in order to get rid of him because he

was getting too close to the top men who were responsible for

the graft and corruption in the New Orleans Police Department.

The New Orleans Crime Commission defended the SUBJECT as did

many other prominent groups in the area. Newspaper articles

relating to the incident carried many conflicting stories of

witnesses.

One story was that the SUBJECT had been drinking

and had at least been indiscreet in handling the incident

which arose.

Since the SUBJECT was a prominent police official

with a job requiring a great deal of tact and discretion, It

was hard to believe that a person in his position, if he had

been sober, would have caused the adverse publicity which he

received.

II-17 stated that after SUBJECT was suspended from the

Police Department he purchased a newspaper, the Herald, a weekly

paper published in Gretna, Louisiana, which he ran for over a

When he was its owner the newspaper and the SUBJECT were

sued for defaming the Universal Drilling Company and one of its

---

## Page 5

14-00000

principal stockholders, Lews J. ROUSSEL. This alleged

defamation against the SUBJeT received & great deal of

notorety in the local newspapers.

(See attached Exhibit

71,7a n

newspaper article from the Imes-Picayune,. New Or-

Jeans, Loudland, which reports the acquittal of SUBJBCT

on this charge)

After running the newspaper for over a year it was

believed SUBJECT had to sell it because of Minancial

difficulties. After selling the paper he started his

own investigation agency which bore his name, and at the

present time It 1s believed he is operating this agency.

From newspaper articles LI-17 had the impression that this

business, run by SUBJECt, night not be completely succesful.

In recent years SUBJECT has associated himself wat

Kent COURINET, editot of the Independent American,

national publication which represents States Rights and

which 16 extremely right wing.in policy and appears to be

dedicated to the proposition of preserving white supremacy •

In the course of its promigation of extreme views it has

used many unethical means.

Il-t? stated that the people

who have been connected with this Independent American

have criticised the Supreme Court to the point of demanding

that all of the Justices resign because they were unethical.

II-I7 advised that this organization, known as the Independent

American Citizens' Council, 1s militantly against desegregation.

II 17 stated he did not know in what capacity SUBJECT was connected

with this organization. Ill? had seen the SUBJECT at many of

their meetings and for all he knew SUBJECT might have been hired

by them to conduct investigations for them.

ita.

II-I7 stated ever since SUBJECT has had some connection

with this extremely right-wing radical group people have be-

come concerned about whether or not he would use information,

gained when he was with the New Orleans Police Department, to

further the cause

of this right wing element.

Another person SUEJECT has associated himself with i3

Leander PEREZ, District Attorney for the Plaquemine Parish.

This individual is extrenely right wing in his political

thinking and has sufficient power that he can dictate whether

or not a person can vote. It is a known fact that he has

denied the negroes in his parish the right to vote.

-2-

---

## Page 6

There was no doubt in in mind, that sues

3:107

ror: 20

when he

N83 X38

Ican for after all he had been with their

and he had accomplished a great deal of

good

on

the Police Force In New Orleans.

When hor

Cant Superintendent of Police SUBJECT helped the

a great deal and that or

the SUBJECTUS ald when he was suspended from the Police Des

partments

octan ta the tea or en role Department, Be inten

Viewed, aBe

as a developed informant.

R-2 advised he has known SUBJECT since 1955 when SUB-

JECT

became Assistant Superintendent of Police In Neute

Orleans. i stated that he had a great deal of respect

and admiration for the SUBJECT when he first assumed his

dutles with the Police Department.

The fact that the sub-

JECT had been a

"Tormer FBI men for over twenty years, and

had been Speclal Agent In Chicago, made it easy for one to

respect him.

When SUBJECT first took over his duties at the Police

Department he proved to be a capable administrator and he

instituted many procedures which were beneficial to the

Department. After SUBJECT had been in the Police Depart-

ment about a year he apparently began to believe some of

the favorable newspaper publicity which he received and

It was common knowledge that on many occasions he failed

to follow the orders from his superior, Provosty DAIRIES.

SUBJECT began to question, or take opposite sides on

policies set up by his superior, and to differ with the

views of Mayor MORRISON.

On many occasions SUBJECT was invited to be a guest

speaker at various organizations, such as Young Business-

mens' Group and the American Legion. Some of his speeches

made before these groups were critical of the city admin

istration and the Police Department.

These criticians did

not help the SUBJECT and alienated many of his former friends.

Rº2 stated when SUBJECT had the difficulty at the

Absinthe House Bar in March 1957 a complete investigation

was conducted, and statements were taken of over 50 wit-

nesses present at the bar at the time of the incident.

• 3.

---

## Page 7

14-0000

The majority of these witnesses stated SUBJECT had been

drinking and he appeared to be intoxicated. Testimony

also revealed SUBJECT grabbed the bartender by the jacket

and pushed him hard enough to. cause two buttons on the

jacket to break loose. Some witnesses stated SUBJECT

pulled out his gun and some denied it. There was also

sufficient testimony that SUBJECT had engaged in un

from the Police Department.

On 4 March 1957 Superintendent of Police DAYRIES

suspended the SUBJECT, but on 1 June 1957 SUBJECT was

re-instated in the Police Department.

His administrative

powers were deleted and he was given the job of Planning

ivities in the New Orleans area.

ficer and the du deans nestigatin men tie act-

for about two days and was then

discharged on the grounds

of insubordination. It appears that the SUBJECT had

failed to take orders from his superior, Superintendent

DARIES.

R-* stated that he personally had a great deal of

respect for the SUJBECT but he felt the SUBJECT had be-

come egotistical and domineering, and wanted the top

position in the New Orleans Folice Department and was not

interested in keeping the #2 job.

R-Z stated that since leaving the Police Department

SUBJECT had purchased and operated a newspaper in Gretna

but had been forced to sell it because of financial

difficulties.

SUBJECT then started his own investigating

agency which he operates at the present time. When he

started this agency he hired Joseph OSTER, Jr, a former

New Orleans Folice Officer®

On 12 September 1960 Confidential Informant R-&, in

charge of an investigative agency, was interviewed.

R-I stated he has known of the SUBJECT about five

years. When SUBJECT was Assistant Superintendent of

Police he had done a very commendable job. Apparently

SUBJECT was an honest person who did everything in his

power to clean up the graft and corruption in the New

Orleans Police Department. When his investigation came

-4-

---

## Page 8

todirt Or leans Pol100 Depart-

usedk an imean

suspending him from the police force.

the Police Department, he has started a

rating business and eppears to be conductin

poracte

no pro me ton he knew concernins

successrol base stated that most of

the SUBJECT had been

Obrat ed tr

on newspaper articles.

RJadvised he did not know SUBJECT personally but

Knew

ew of his reputation and activities when he had been

Assistant Superintendent of the New Orleans Police De--

partmentre

purom reading about the incident at the Absinthe

House Bar Pr stated he

was of the opirion that this in-

edent hadabeen blown up out of proportion by the public,

andine Police Department used this Incident to suspend

the subst rom his position. It appeared that the

was getting too close to the bosses of the police

administration and to the graft and corruption in the de.

partment, and consequently this incident was an excuse for

his suspension.

CREDIT :

At New Orleans, Louisiana:

On 9 September 1960 Mrs. Betty ENGELBRACHT, secretary

at the New Orleans Credit Bureau, 333 St. Charles, made

avallable a report, dated 1 April 1957, in the name of the

SUBJECT which contained the following information:

SUBJECT has been known to the files since February

1955.

He was born on 7 March 1901, is married to Mary

and they have one daughter. As of 15 Jamuary 1955 he was

employed by the New Orleans Police Department as Assistant

Superintendent of Police and earns approximately $750 a

month. He resides at 6161 Canal Boulevard, New Orleans.

He is well regarded as to character, habits and morals.

---

## Page 9

Lou, st ane,

County ered Bureas,

dated . February 1954, prepared by westerp

Oak Park,

111n018,

reflected the

following

SUBJECT worked for five years on the Monroe, Loulalana,

Police Force (date: not listed).

He headed the TBI offices

Formate, chica, in 190m at act Me a go cret rating.

ana, Oklahoma City and Minnesota before trans

Op Septenber125? the Fort Worth, Texas, Continental

ei to the New Orleans Credit Burean that

the SUBJE

the By 559, and a bied u. der the nime on thy a

on the report reflected that the SUBJECT had been employed

by the Algiers Public Service but this statement was not

further explained.

POLICE (CRIMINAL AND SUBVERSIVE RECORDS) :

At New Orleans, Iouisiana:

on 12 September 1960 the records of the New Orleans

Police Department were checked in the name of SUBJECT with

negative results. The records were also negative in the names

of Mary W.

-, Joseph A. OSTER, Vernon GIRDES and Kent COURINEY.

GAN RALE

At New Orleans, Louisiana:

On 9 September 1960 Mr. Ray TAYLOR, an employee at

Dun and Bradstreet, 442 Canal Street, made available a

report, dated 5 February 1960, which contained the foLlow

ing information about the SUBJECT:

Cuy B-- Associates, Inc., Room 434 Balter Building;

404 St. Charles, New Orleans, is a Louisiana corporation

chartered 21 January 1958.

Authorized capital is 500 shares

with no par value stock:

---

## Page 10

macle agea

arial Toulalana. He serve

marked,

or the Polloe Department,

Issociates,,

emon CURIS siC), 35, married, was born niler

Or leansy Lovi si and:

He served In the United State

Marines from 1940 to 19h5.: From 19li6 to 1947 herman

variously employed in the New Orleans area, and from

1918 to 195] he was employed by Chrysler 1n Micheud, Y

Loulsiana. From 1952 to 1954 he operated a local ing

vestigating

bureau and From 1955 to 1956 he was ene

19510019439

ployedias an insurance salesman; from October 1956 te

January 1959 he worked at a service station. Since

early 2956 he has

served as Secretary-Treasurer of the

GUY 3

- Associates

The Corporation operates a private detective agency

fee basis. Operations are conducted from quarters

in a large brick office building, located in the down-

town conmercial area. Recent attempts to contact the

officers of the Corporation have been unsuccessful.

This Corporation has been in operation since January

1958 but in the opinion of authorities consulted, opera-

tions, especially in recent months, have not been con-

ducted along successful lines. Altho detailed operating

figures have not been available in outside quarters, the

opinion of authorities consulted 1s that the volume at

present is limited and the two officers who reportedly

own all of the outstanding stock are credited with earning

a small living, at best, from the business. The Corpora

tion has a few huddred dollars in fixtures and equipment.

Cash, if any, is limited and outside investigation reveals

that

during recent months some NSF (not sufficient funds)

checks have been issued.

A check of Orleans Parish Court reveals that in 6

November 1959 the State of Louisiana filed a tax lien

against Guy B-- Associates, Inc, in the amount of $393.

The lien is still outstanding. The Corporation has a

slow paying record.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

on 9 sentencer 1960 the articles cá incorporation of

the tHy

trict court,

iscorates,

inco, locatec at tie civil 1s-

verc revience and cflecter the follotin":

Comoration lane: a

sociates, Inc.

Chiects and rumose:

To cordict ir esti rtions into criniral and

civil conlaints for the prose of asserblin.

inion won for others rclatin. to existing or

treatened tron's to crson, proverty or rey

utations; the existeuce, identity, craracter

loralt, activity and standina o. indivicivals,

firal or

association; arc the procurement of

factual rate recessary to the preservation and

enjomont of incivicuals an entities of their

lauful rishts.

2.

To establisi are raintain retail dealers pro-

tection and emr lover evalration services.

3.

to conduct sumers of thysicel flants and

buildin's for ie esteblishrent of protective

sustens which nill suare a cinet trespassers

and miscreants of pietever linu.

4. to establish and raintain quara semices,

unifor ed and not unitormed.

5. To conciuct rurlic opinion polls; consumer

opinion polls and such other time and lands of

inquiries as may be necessari to properly advise

clients in public relations activities.

Location and post office adcress of its registered office

is 7059 Ironne Street, 'er Orleans 24, Lovisiana.

The full names and post, office ardresses of its registered

arents are:

Guy F------, 7059 irconne Street, New Cricans, Ia.

doseph d. OSTIT, 663: Lorian Street, "

1t

Authorized shares of stock: 500

Amount of paid-in capital with which the corporation shall

begin is 1000 which will be paid in cash.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

The first lircetors and Officers are:

Fresident

Guy

Vice-tres.

Lary

SecT-ireas.

Josenh in. CSELF

sheres

20

Move sirner bi fliam do bid, iotary tublic, on: 21

Januer: 1059

1:15 Dol.

& check of the liens filed against b Associates,.

Inc.

at the civil District Court at er Orleans reflecteo

the following:

R.€:

The State of lovisiana Parish of Orleans, City

ot few Orleans, lerartment of labor, Division

of trirloyment security, daton Pouge, louisiana,

arainst ruy to Associates, InC.

the claintiff placeo & lien on defendent's

procerty for 393.07, flus interest 01: :19olds

which is

amount due in principal as contribl

tions on employment covering the period be-

pinning 1 cule 1:50 end encine 30 June 1959.

Anount owed to Division of Inployment, Security,

of the epartment of labor.

Lien recorded 6 jovenuer 1959.

lortgare Fecord. Book 1953, page 337, at the

reens larish, Civil listrict Court, new

üricans, Iovisiana.

On o sertencer 1960 this hent concucted a survey oi

he facilities located at Room 434, Lalter MildinE 40.

St. Clarles.

It vas learned that room u34 was the former

office of luy i-- Associates, Inc.

Casual inquiries of

eight months.

An examination of this space revealed that

it was unoccupied as of this date.

---

## Page 13

This space consisted of two rooms on the 4th floor of

a four-stom office building located in a sood commercial

section of the city.

This office builcing is well nainteined

and is diaronally across tre street fron the i asonic Temple

wlach houses many lovernment ofIces.

Casral inquiries ir the falter vildin. revealed that

ruy E- Associates, inc. had moved to 531 Laravette St.

I casual survey ves conducted at 531 Lafavette Street which

is located in a comercial low rent section of the city anc

is across the street fror the linited States lost Office.

531 lafayette is an olc four-story building and the first

floor houses a restaurant on the corner and behind this,

the offices of Guy E-- Associates, inc.

The entrance

to 531 Iafayette is on the first floor and the entrance

doorway opens directly onto the strect. Tiere are no signs

on this building, nor is there any sim on the coorway to

the entrance of cut F

- Associates, Inc.

On ? Sentender 1900 lirs. etty DiGIlERACHT, secretary

at the en irleans Credit Pureau, made available a credit

refort, dated 2? July 1960, in the nare of vernon C. CuPDES.

Agent's lote:

accorcine to alüi report on iny i---- lssociates,

Inc. this indivional was listed as STAJICT!S associate and

his name was spelled "CUFLES!

Temon G. GERIES is married to lary Ann and has three

"dependents.

ris are was shown as 3o and his occupation

was listed as self-employed investivator at 500 International

Euildin:®

i report dated 17 lovember 1959 contained the following

infomation:

!. C. GURDES was employed by Guy E-- Associates, Inc.,

Falter Tuilding, for the past four months as a private

vestigator and associate.

Y. CaRDiS is a native of lew

(rleans, Lovi siana.

le formerly worked lor ilegins as a

carpenter, later served in the linited states larines from

1942 to 1945 and then operated the terdes Service Station

for five years.

He then worked for Chrysler and later oper-

410-

---

## Page 14

14-00000

ated the Commercial Investigation Service from 1955 to

1057.

He was then an Agent for the jassachusetts Fro

tective Association from 1957 to 1959 and later was the

OWnET

oi the CIRDES Conoco service Station. For one

year it was an investigator for Guy -

Associates,

lis addresses were shown as 1207 Constantinople, 1439

Liesire and 1790 Rosario.

On 12 Septemer 1960 i ro woE. doIS, of the retail

Credit onpany, made available a report,

dated 1 june

1950, in the name of lernon c. CERILS, 1207 Constantinople,

which listed his employment as "self--insurance, Uniter

Arerican" since 1960.

he graduated from lichols Figh

School, len Crleans, Lovisiana.

He is connected with an

insurance firm but the name was not Inown by any of the

informants contacter.

Te upe nrevionel" emlottd as the

omer and offrator of the Standard business Bureau, 2

collection agency onerated from his home. He has had!

this job jor over' a year and still devotes nart time to

this business.

Fe had been the ciner oi a tonoco ervice station,

located at 101 si. ternard, for almost two years, but

closed the business because it was unsuccessful.

he is

married for the second time. His first marriage ended

in divorce, but there is no criticisi.

lie has one child

by his present wife. He is reported to be in rood health

and he is tell regarded personally in the community.

Another report in the Fetail Credit Bureau's files

was dated. I larch 1960 and reflected the following:

Ternon G. CORDES was born on 7 lecenber 1923. From

2 July 1954 be was self-employed as the Comercial In-

vestigation Service. He had nunerous previous employments

and is rerarded as becoming discourased very quickly.

worked as a clerk for Chrysler for two years.

He worked

for Gary 107) Special Investigation Service as an investi-

gator for two years and was released as being unsuited for

chE 100.

He was ent loyed by the ix-'arine fetective Agency

sic for a short time.

he sold real estate for the WARR

Real istate Comnany. Fe operated the CinDES Service Station,

owned by his father, or five to six years.

-11-

---

## Page 15

as 8 secretar

metrong Cork, Company. He Le vell regerded and

had ax Fool perione? reputation.

the Retail Credit Bureau, made

avallable a

report of Investigation, dated 25 July 1960,

In the name of Joseph A. OSTER, Jr:

Agent's Notes

JI.

was listed In the D & B report

as being associated with luy B-

___+* Associates, Inc.

The repota

reflected that he was employed as

pread dent of the Southern tessarch, Ince, for the past

year and a half,

Prior to this he had been with Guy

Bo sociates: Inc.

and with the New Orleans Police

Department. 2r

OSIRis present employment is with

He received $1000 a year from rental income. His

main duties are in the

administrative and investigative

lines.

He lives with his wife and children in an average,

middle class section of the city and his associates are

respectable..

Mr. OSTER was in the armed forces shortly alter World

War II.

He was born on 18 November 1928 at New Orleans,

Iouisiana, and is a graduate of Nichols High School. He

was in the New Orleans Police Department as a detective

for 6 years and left to work for Pendleton Detective Agency

for a short time and then joined Guy B---- Associates, Inc.

where he remained for a year and a half.

At the present time Mr. OSIER is Vice-Fresident and

Manager of the Southern Research, Ince, whose home office

is in Shreveport, Louisiana. He earns $15,000 yearly from

his present position.

On 9 September 1960 Mrs. Betty ENGELBRACHT, secretary

in the Credit Bureau, made available a credit report in the

name of Joseph A. OSTER, Jr. of 7135 Dorian, New Orleans,

Louisiana.

The report, dated 3 August 1960, contained the

following information:

-I-

---

## Page 16

Joseph d... OSTEF was about 31 years old, was married

and had four dependents. te was emloyed as

Vice-Fresi-

lent of the Southern research. (orpany,

Irc. ris carnines

vere estimated between : 12,000 and : 15,000 vearly.

Fe is

a native of lew Orleans and has lived at the above address

since March 1959. le was formeriv emnloved by the City of

tw rleans, was in the irred forces and was honorably dis-

charped. He attended lovola Universitv as a GI stuient ano

woried rarttime for the Frogressive banli.

In lecerter lü he entered the emlot of tie fendleton

Detective icency as an investigaior.

trior to this he worled

for Cuy I---- issociates, Inc. as the secretary and Treasurer.

The report reflected that ir. Ostet had three attorey

accounts for collection and all were paid. It had been re-

ported that he owed $130.94 to Godchaux, a lew (rleans DE-

partment Store, as of 28 lay 1959.

Carl LEDEETTER had, sued for

:33.65 as the result of an automobile accident. lir. OSteR's

credit was rated "slow'".

Mr. OSTER'S addresses iere listeo as

7135 lorian

6638 for an

2428 Pay

3025 Spain

1200 Common

All of lew Orleans, louisiana

Attached to this report are ixhibits I thr ? which contain

background infornation pertaining to Guy B---

FOD: efd

Attach: Ix. 1-%

- 13-

---

