ie ire- 202]

“py

pat afer

; eee cir OE OME Meets
si :: i" { MICROM Meo
: : HOVE Wyo peter

a #P

19 October 1964

INFORMATION REPORT

SUBJECT : Ssentor Lieutenant Anatoliy Mikhaylovich
GOLITSYN (201-99788)

SOURCE : GB kisav

Dor : 1955.

1. When asked if he knew GOLITSYN in the Soviet Emigra-
tion Direction of the State Security Residency in Vienna, ag
of February 1954, Source said that he did not know him. How~
ever, in August 1955 Source recognized the name of Anatoliy
M. GOLITSYN as that of a KGB officer who was working in the
Office of the High Commissioner of Austria, in Vienna,

2.___In May 1955, Source identified the attached photo-
graph #361 as that of a counter-intelligence [state security|
officer, but he did not know his name.

Comment:

3. DERYABIN identified the photograph referred to in
paragraph 2 above as that of Senior Licutenant Anatoliy
Uikhaylovich GOLITSYN. GOLITSYN's wife is the person next to
him. The other person in the photograph is the wife of Senior
Lieutenant Yevgeniy Petrovich IVANOV (201-134369), who was in
the State Security Residency in Vienna.

4, Anatolty Mikhaylovich GOLITSYN (201-99788) defected
to the West from Finland in December 1961.

Distribution:
Orig ~ 201-9978
123 Gite-is6/s
1 ~ SR/CI/G/Chrono

a

3 a
DEQersv tes ¢ “eon



\

MICROFILMED
NOV13 Iy0g

POs MicRe. ar!

ENT TO JH ~ 175

ATTACHM!

Pao
ehh a TH 7S

PHOTOGRAPH...

He eterna amen gins

H
i
i
i

iP

20/3 997865 j



vee a

Se



Ee
» 9.Mai 1955
i 6-£2.6

oC fetus

i

ean ete i
7 “AwtNN
‘ (dea lovee GoLieSYN F
Danii i Ald 1 i
4 oCarr are veh

