# 104-10137-10073

## Page 1

104-10137-10073 TAE AT D.ESEMINATION

"N BY

IFTED

Ar. 3, 305

---

IS.FIED MESEAGE

TOTAL COPIES 31C

S5012T

(When Filled In)

D1=0:8A2I0 688

BILLABOr MATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHiBITED

INDEX:

YES O NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO....

O FILE NO._

DRET. TO

BRANCHO

PREC

EDENCE

VR.

SECRET 2221442 APR S8 CITE

71AR685553

INNEDIATE

INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR

1o LOCAL PANAMANIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE DETAINED TWO AMERICANS WHO

TRAVELLED FROM SAN JOSE TO PANAMA CITY VIA PANAMERICAN HIGHWAX

ACCORDING IO PANAMANIAN AUTHORITIES THEY WERE TIPPED OFF-BY COSTA

RICAN AUTHORITIES THAT THE TWO AMERICANS WERE INVOUVED

WE THE ASSASSI

NATION OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING. PANAMANIAN AUDORITIES DO NOT KNOW

BASIS FOR COSTA RICAN SUSPICIONS, AND LATTER HAVE NOT ANSWERED QUERIES!

CAN YOU INQUIRE FROM YOUR

CONTACIS AS REASON WHY COSTA RICANS

SUSPECT THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS?

ANSWER BY IMEDIATE PRECEDENCE CABLE.

2. AMERICANS ARE.

MR TOM WOLMAN: DPOS; 17 JULY 1944, NEW YORK.

PASSPORT J085474 ISSUED 29 JANUARY 1968. HOME ADDRESS: 30 LARRY'S

LANE, PLEASANTVILLE, NEW YORK. (PASSPORT PICTUR SHOWS NO RESEMBLANCE

TO KING ASSASSIN.)

DOUGLAS HARRY HULBARD, PASSPORT NO. 330926. ACCORDING TO

PANAMANIAN

WOLMAN IS JUST A KID AND HULBARD IS A FORMER SOLDIER

STATIONED IN PANANA WHO WAS RETURNING TO PANAMA TO MARRY A GIRL HE

MET HERE. THE PAIR WERE TRAVELING IN A CHEVROLET LICENSE PLATE 23GHISS

MOTOR NO: 13-387-13-113711. NEITHER THE YEAR OF THE AUTO. NOR THE STATE

OF ISSUANCE OF THE LICENSE PLATE WERE NOTED IN THE

REPORT.

#B

#73

SE6R3T

229p4810-95902

772

!

18194.

---

## Page 2

CABLE SECRETERIAT DISSENINATION

PERSONUNIT NOTIFILS

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

AT:

SLOTTED

z

DISSEM BY.

ACTION

RID COPY

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

(When Filled In)

TACLUSIO SPIN AUTOMATIC

DEMOSROS:N6 600

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: YES O NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIO CRET. TO

INFO:

FILE,

VR.

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

10

BRASCHO

DESTROY 0] SIG.

PAGE TWO

_SECRET

ACCORDING TO WOLMAN'S PASSPORI HE ENTERED AND DEPARTED EL SALVADOR

AND HONDURAS OMN 17 APRIL, NICARAGUA 18 APRIL AND PASO DE CANDA PANAMA

ID APRIL.. NO EVIDENCE FROM PASSPORT THAT WOLMAN IRANSITTED

COSTA RICA•

SECREI

BT

r.

1."!

22. Aj. 68

#2

SECRET

---

