# 104-10173-10075

## Page 1

104-10173-10075

DISPAICH

.."•

RAGE

miny 3'k

MIC. 00610.066003

JUN 15012

DOC.

"o

Into

troy

Subject

chiot, 'n.

14-6

inlovin eo bo

julied by qualifius

i:13. dosk

5176-7614

s: ühies of Stuliong

Action rogulrod

Referenco

lay contact and benictine of kokien

for infuryatiön

11949

DIR 31507

Background Use

"URNTO

• Not Reproduce

NNO

1. Attoched herewith in Arthur J. Haroyis report of his controts

with MAurEliA copenhngen 3 and & any 1961.

2.

Any field corments on this aso will come from.

1

Ittachment:

report, as noted above

3 Lay 1961

• Distributions

A for fat

53 к/ ора, 4-в

714-3

8/pJ

---

## Page 2

StA 1 11949-016-01

1668.1

'ї?":

655140562/1

40

contrict sectings on and a way

MICH-CALMED

JUN 1 1962

Gnorational

I. On 3 and 1 iny kane was annin conta

DOC. MICRO, SER.

and debricied by ..lthur Jorer In Coschhagen. Loth

minetirce took

nlace in tho

"Ind 4OC.1" "706 a03

2o the arnitionn schriofinr, sho.ed thit

KiNTeR cannot hone, for the

tino beinr,, to obtain a third

visItor's visa for trivol to his rolitives in iinak.

vant visitca the jovict inbrusy on 17 prii and vas

clearl; told by a soviet consulni oricial that his

chances ros such a visa cro practicolly non-existont.

se inquired ulso about studs opportunities in tho

ussil but dia not recrive any encourn enant in t'iis

respoct, oither. he has hid no further contacts vith

the nIS rc roseniativos in icnenhagen and has had

no indic-tion, even after his visit at tho soviet

Imbassy, that the sovicts wisi to revive contact with

hik..

copenharon University intho lirat rect of June.

ninances timitting he would like to arend the sumor

in Yuroslivia to ixcrovo his theoreticni kno:laigo

of serbo-Croatian. le has mio a tentativo reserva

tion on an 'erican-somerinn liner for his return

to ta U.S,: on 9. soptenber, ionewere botroon now and

this into his plans to hairy his girl-iriend, iis

siberiare 2s,res conenharon, Usterop rao 109/1,

but in vier of their financinl situation she vill

probably not accompany hin cithor on his projected

trio to roslavia or his hore travel but will Join

hin later. the will continun hor vort: et an architeot's

olice in copenharon and will sclo Kink linancially

1f his irio to Yugoslavia should micrilizo.

1. In ries of the above developments and

tobiter"s ocroonal plan, there do very Ililo 11:e1ti00d

that-any proiuctive situation mi it aovelon in tre

short tine toninint. vinco

has evasomend and since th: mis ins node no sore to

reney decir do tact sate liarien niter ala visio to

the soviet busay on 17 nil butil

21.7:1

ariel dod tint tir case ids llot

carpent had

at otton

p: curse intered ills tir i

14-6

→1:

Encl.l.

22

ESSAt: 0÷82

ES COPY

GERAT

201-219786

3/09

---

## Page 3

"1'

•N 55S 600

: 1

do linder thron circuieterd the ninvionaly re

26 tinction does not imbond necoctory

in lonror, unloss ileadouriers thinks that kidig cone-

en1 cruthfulneas should be cotablichod, do snectric

aguirnnents have been riven or iro contonlated fol

Krer at this store ind no further prearrangenents havo

been medo to 300 kuror annin belore ho lcaves Conon

heren. Ho was nerely instructed to contact us noaln,

usin; the orcviously crience: co: unication lino /lotter

11f a/ he shoul be

contrated anain by

tho soriets In

commere in irone during this surer,

b/ if ho should cone serous intercatine contacts hot-

won the sovicts and the vorcien or annish stuients in

Bonenharen, ii the RIs should seck to cotablish con

tact with hin citer hts return to lhe U.S

'instruction is to get in touch vith tho bl imodiatoly.

6. Kinor himsolf unreared very willin. to re-

doem his "provious mistakes" by any action ve s00 rit.

A thorough rovic: of nis contacts with tho IS aid not

brin' out any contradictions with his confossion nt tho

firat meetinas and shoved no indication of continuod

not born cloarly detecinod.

recora lor the cront that at a Inter stare kamei minht

becone again of chasivai interest or li he should ever

apply for a position with thE us.

Govurnsont.

Additional inrourtion on kanis visit at jor embassy

visited the soviet bassy "irst on

14 sril, but was told that it was a holldav and that he

on 17 ipril. On 17 april he vas receivod

soviet orricial, tron he had

seen in the bassy

bofore but whose name is not knon to hin. this

officinl is a heavi-set nan, are 35-10, aporo%. heirnt

5°16", athlotao build, dar: blond or liht broin hair,

round, neity fece, lull set of teeth, loud voico, e

specks Gorman but does not know danish. Kiter talked

with him in russian, inon kates inovired abot hig

vica, the official ishi ain then he actually rould

liie to visit his uncl?.

sen vistie, old hi: chat ho

thour? about june or Jult, tid orricial inseria that

such A vion actor couli

chort tire ari this 11

neil it aid not soon torth

hile tos kant to tre.

me..110.

inblolo ande? de existin conditions. imter's so-pre

tient he had quce icon reinena schi ranin at a las

---

## Page 4

14-00000

pe 181:110

in dot croouras min

i.:.."

ince tha coaverrorion. ent.

Ichur!" ircicenually,

corede wadiCaCY liu not 650g:: 1011 of jo:" / 30

¡horosho o rur ocarilyn/.:hen krira geod " Iron

sorict did not reset in any

ray and disissed form nitiout any explanation

of

his crustien renart. In Anteas oninion, the coriot

wes obvious failiar lth pine's dosaicr and ner-

hoos vantch to let hi! know tho cturl roason jor

turinin. corn his vis application.

MiGneR on CANNes contacts with Oviets in to LES?

red stated that at the mecting on 11

and 18 soril he had lorrotten to nention an opisode

thnt had occurred at his rirst trip to the is? in

19:8.

wefore ho left,in dcikoy suve hin tro marlish-

lunquare books, one about iericir anecdotes na the

oter unroeiioreà by kmeras cll an two bottles of

whiskoy. -e asked khm to tresmit the books and 1

botile of whiskey to one /inu/staIrs,a nenber oi the

stafi of "oscow lews"

to call up i"

mumbans 808-10 to -ct in touch .ith Siler. Te

second bottle of whisker uns to be iven to shine s

uncle -s a present. On his return fron. inck to

couchlogen sher spent threc days in lioscow and stayed

at the "etropol". so renonbered ."NACiOVs -cquest,

called lp -1xI22 and

was visited by the latter at

the hotel. kine transmitted the boois and 1 botzle

of chisey to sario.

the latter asked his ii Kite

mas incerested in rritin® a short arcicle for the

loscow hers" about his incasions in -ansk. kaum

agreed and roote about tro handjitten pares, statin:

that he had been

rather faverably inoressed by that

appered to be a very rust prosta ani :cconstriction

or the city of i insk. julIa? accepted the erticle,

cave Kite SCO subles as " fos,ond prozised to send

"initRi Cory 0i i:0 issie

in the articlo more to be

puvliched. kade sigoes a reccint loi the zoncy. io

did nit receire iny cooy and docs not 210: wither the

article sis ever isod. -ill amcared to be aù 6.at

Tion a coustache, nin or suila.

vas vitor a deor ian or chimn belioves that he

•n; 570:3 -n-lish

flucntly and innie:te

chat ne lair: also several

•indiado

he doon not tool cant toge

61n 10.00n8.

---

## Page 5

6088595-041599639

te 51971-59-*

so wiene" rubier har his insinens at 19i

2a rans

•:' it cowen "ill not be :blo to

weario Sediately after his recurd none mao will

mise io work, iû is nossiblo that he sill le helping his

father in the Incor's business.

intormn hi:: that sio 1s iting stoos to brir oud her irother

Minès uncio incinst ofcicinthr tone us. , bus kiNiR

1e not sure shutor she is thintin of t tomorry visitor's

vian ur a perment tri ration viou. at uny rato, she ing

maic out afridavits or support ior hor brother.

11. KANIa realitied

that he was never a

any orcanization, excent is e boy, when he joined the dec

Caucts. In the cistrict in which

hc rew up,most of tho

proclo vero of "cocressive viorg",but his

varonts took

arcat core to icey his out of this environmont, send him

to & lebrew school and in general took crout pains to

educate him in traditional values. both his darents and

ho hi: solf were considered and consider thenselvos anti-

s decision to study russian wus entirely

his oin and

primril: dictatoo by his desire to

leain nore about the country of oririn of his paronts

and to onter a field which had nothin'to do viti businoss.

He has never felt attracted to business or coney-nekin

occupations, an attitude which has caused some conflicts

In the pest betreon hin and his father....

evich of rotivition

12. KAnToR reitcratea that in 1957 and 1958 he

did not consider his contacts with ii cHov as illicit

or conflictin; with his loyalty torarue the u. though

KAGIOV told hin to bi discreet about their contaots,

he alleredly told his friands in Conenhazon that he vas

neeting, him. id las varucly avare or the direction in wiich

he las boin, pusiod, but since he had a strong desiro to

ro to the USs? and did not provide to KisYACioY any "sub-

versive intornacion", ha did not focl that no had over-

stepped the bonarios of the nerissible. curthernore,

•RYUNOV proschted all iis reucots for written strto

ones and inioration avoit kaviti

s rarily, bacislound,

ani trierdo as prereduisies for the issuence oi a vinitor's

visa, and kanéboliered that this wa miite consistont

with that he had heard about tin susvicinisness or tho

13. In lettin: both ii riGood mid Intor Sake

believe crab do cos nue onorgi to be criends ilon cio

„ovices" kasion thou he to bo vory closer enu sillull.

Sadie L 1

---

## Page 6

Atta do de do that tidi

dal, 00061111

.:. "i in reu-

ni: win desire one co been the ivor pon tos turther

nis seni-shirica sion cho vssihe maint-ined the coa-

tict riii win rev and later Mor iy/.co.lov/ oniy

reluctantly mai only brecuso he dis not mie to cause

any trouble is sis relatives in tie Lssa,b.oich ,os

KAntaR narlos,one ol' his IS conticts ever -ide any

clear or inlice thrects that lis relativer sould surer

if ho did no: collaborato, In fact, the only soviot sho

attenyued nicor presaure an Grorcly localov. He told

inured once furt if he did not collaborato, no visa for

hin rould be loitheerin,.

14. twin adnitted condidly that his desire

to study are Russian lunquage wes so strong;

1950 that ii at that tine tho joviors had

ortered hin

an onportant to atichd a soviet university, le would

huve accented, even it he has been discourered or tho

citrorities: corever,nruci his experience in 1959

ho allereal! chnnged his vicw ruaically and just waniod

to be lore alone. .ich all that, kuti could not provido

a logical are Tousille explanution why ho did not cone

to the u.5.

authoritieg and resort ercrything. then

questioned -by-niney rether sharply on this point,

becane caotion. and stated that "if he really wanted

to concoal anything ard if le thou ht that he was still

doing that the soriets told him to do, ho certainly rould

have mabbed tie oscortunity of costroving, his passport

and simply deny tat he had been in the Ussi in 1959".

15. in retrospect, kime bolieves that ho chile

he had been vors naive in the borinnint or his contacts

with the soriits and the NIS, he did not really engore in

any subversire activitr",did not sunaly any valuablo

Information to then, end did not cosult anyting con-

flictin- with his lovaltr as e ll.S

citizen. do

expressod the serret that he was now unable to prove

his rorth.

16. as stated abovo, turn's behuvior and

ractions durin: those list mectins insearcd to do ite

consistont with his choractor and did not indicato an

existin? Is control. do volunteered hingeli the some: ant

dang-ine cadition tom on his contico with sidlar and

the prynent io=

on article wich mes obviously a brot t

Sidini

0169

SECRET

---

## Page 7

+37464

seд251

CORRE.

civa: redd

1 99. 2/ 2272 2 (008,970 30.

Kiere s colgin, adileat

¡linius, jeen

only onco iy eurh. or ly e vert livoly

inniriqual, nict overly created, but chresd and anparently

cinable in his businosa. noliticn) in his vlovs.

b/ comn ahaY, ore 20, mirrier to a Jerist

roinn,also tuo children. .. sorks in a photo raphors studio

and carna thoro neout lile rubles, but worko algo on the sly

und 1s crobabiy coranod ilso in ninor bleck-nket afrairs.

nio vife is a torcher in a socondry school ind ruins

1000 ruüies per nonth: sher rosido in a not housin" aroiect

in : ins, precive anreso unknown. Mosan a20nico complcurd

"seniletka", ne vas in nilitary sorvice a lore.

time and reached tie

rank of scigeant. cogpletely cpoli

tical in his vione, se l: an e:cellent chess playci.

e/ You"enir LaTiCV, are 30-10, husbend or

whiton's aunt's dauriter iron her forezious marriare, indie

in a crininal court,alle cily tho only jeviai juage in the

entire byclorussian sor, but his salary is noiost, only

1500 rublos in 1969, "e ly probably a Comunist and 1

party menber, but In 1958 or 1959 he vas critleized in

some hyolorussian nowssoners for hnvino passed too lenient

senterces in soue crininal cases. Yevgenit hlikov vas

extrencly carciul in his low contacts with knuè during

the latter's vicits in j.insk and never ongared in any

political conversations.

d/ Cricoriy ReZI:INOV, brother of tho above,

ede 20-28, 1n 1009 vas in his last year of prysics studios

at the iniversity of : insk. Kmkel had only e fow casual

contacts with hin, out ne introducci kare to sono other

youns sous in jnskone oi the above or ans other relative

otocots to travel ibroad. Kiura docs not s-intain any

corresuonience with thom

Casual acaualdiancos and cortacts in tre U342 1n 1933/58

•- 11e. a/ vladimiry "volouy. "/ 2822 1.900 35

en:inccrine stusent no un universit: in .inat,:30 torsca

ulso :i an uniron l'actory in .ino: i ni at aniito. :

satico inò che acre uisirction ot brin oe ou the iow

Jo ion chairen o' Kolino% la ti : Verorussian 35?. VOlodva

pos nnt a co-diist anu vid not coo: ang 1ltrC3z in oli

insinunci

curicaier ton in lisin

musondo In liro ho live. .6a rumidory di ild. Ino' univer-

"Ів".

S66:1

---

## Page 8

1d-0d0d

-at do: -5-10-9-

7

ritate corego aggorm.?

iriend his anartond but noselyt

.. la idloiy:"

• endo, Ir min interest tore rial:

nile he bas not &

"3611V272"

r obvicusly usri his dnthrahe or.

inl:1: 010s0

to it

• nositio: lo 171: 00:0

mccriad advantares.

¿ sover'l other your people, belon:in to thin

sane crollo, lilose nues bingo does 10i ricolloct und those

nuin interosts were jnz% musie, dancin,,irls.

a! Irina Mabsandrovna Labore 28, curlish hir 1ico

cransintor at the lionobile slunt in sinak,n pretty auburn

oi rediun neicht. moos kanice aot throut tho other your

poonle.in surner lord.

hey had a short-lived lown alinir

which ended even beroro kure as ericllod fron the use:,

BiNCO

he discoverod that she sloot with several boys.

irina's rather nuct have had a cood besition, sirce the

family ornoi a personal car. irina nover rave knit hor

Inct nans but did not show ruch curiosity for his per-

sonal basinound either and did not to to olicit any

incornation irom him, though she cirplayed the u51a1 curie

sity los the life in the USa and western..urone. In her

worl she translated analish tecinical forinals. she spoko

inclish Inirly well but preferred russion. she cold kaure

that she had been in czochoslovaria mi onco mentioned

that peris she rould be sonetines

able to cone to Don-

muck as a tourist. kance not her rather frenuently in unc

and July 1059,nt loast once a reek, but vas invited

to her

house onlj once, when her parenis sore away.

of is with his relatives, ltd hardly over

talked policies with the above and did not unko any arrante

mentr to kicep in touch by mil afer hir dovarture fron

Coreral intornation on : insk 1: 1959

19, is commed with 1953, the luildin activitina

in 1959 Tere very Intonsive, prinarily bir blocks of housin

projocts, the hotel " inste" vas coroloud in 1ite vevcarl

housin, areas and sono new buildings were

university.

20. In 1959 sone city district: seill hir no

100999951. Pi0

al, In 1959 there tere

no serious short tos, hel

---

## Page 9

!!:

call cho londoe are let Ma daed to 10 B00 • Mir 1691°

ingrersion lis

that lifc ust bo extrerely. hord.

c3. In alcition to the universito, there nro soveral

tcchnical institutes, out siren ind no onvortunity of vi31-

tin then. in rencers that ho once narred by i buildin?

witch nouses a nilitary

scocorch institute / "vo-enno-

nichny insuitutiy, but

without a may ho was not ablo to

describe lts location.

21. the linsk CVIR is located opponito tho school

no 25 or 12. It is housod in tho suno building as "militsiya"

and occuntes several officos and rooms on the first floor,

roon numbers 109-111. Iù hes a very snall staff, 2-3 male

anployacs and 2 fonales in the "rogistraisiya".

25. Rather large military barricies are located on

tho grushevskays alitsa. They can ho:so ut loast a division.

28, the Jewish cormunity of illnsk is considered the

larrest in the bunlorussion is?, but

nust have snrunk

considerably sinco in II, thero is still I vory snall

synagogue, which is open and attended by older people.

intl-senitisn is not felt by a visitor, but local jows

told kisser that in the last woors of stalin's lie there

were

a nass deportation or the relish nonulation to cideria.

/In 1958 квіа

encountored a dorish student in lenin,.rad

who told him that evon now cortain carcors are closad to

Jer's(such as dinlonatic servico, filitary schools leading

to higher ranks/•

27. anon? non-Jewish people kas heard in 1959

some rather arising, runors: ho was esked repeateuly

whether it was true that sisenhowor, ockeleller, J.t.

organ, cord were desish, hen ho deniod this, ho met

vith considerablo scoptlois.

28. Kited was asked ii he hnd any soviet litter

still in his possossion, but the only thine that he could

find was a tolley bus tickot /attached/. To his best rc

collection he has not seen any tolophonc dircotories in

any public alace in iinst.

current ama: leads in codeniaron

20. Kenner's current contacts tith forolen and

1n7ish suments. are alle edly ruitr linited, beonuse ho

his slanceo occuny nis entire iroo tino. t:o only co

crote locus or possible intrrest arc:

SECHET

---

## Page 10

excil e solond mod got her vian oxtendod uilo

stayin. there until mecomber 1960. She hint been

10b' it loust is & yours and bro now a voi: jino

coitand or the lanuajo. she lives in Millerod, a joven-

ho in suburb, preoise aidross

unknorm. Mor future nlans

1136 StURE

are 38-03, nossibly st1ll In, oscow

but due baci soon, probably at the ond of tho current

cut/lit per no 1e iso an echino startent ind lud his visa

alno extendni while soill in the lison. lie is a tocher.

do has boen in the isor repeatculy as a suide for a travo?

oranization /inter.aclonal lours?/. io has been airdring

ushair too a long tine. vanish national and citi:

c/ leSS StuBle longo 2R-Bu, In genoval. considored

a youn. and nevivo do:unist or at lost a pronouncod

fellor-savolor annears to be in croanior and ls vory

uctive in the mussiar lenguago club, "Soutnil". lio has .

boen in ionintrod and has sone trionas thoro, but ho

hus not studied there, ddress unknown.

ars 40 plus,

toaches dussina language courses ins boginners. Uoed to

In orconiore incomation

1s probadly contained in the Copenhagon University ca

01155. SPURCE

god 35-36, "nand.106,", toaches

coursos ol cussion langure for lew and/or science stu

dents.

I/ wurse has no social contacts with the above

and knows thon only casually from the sinvie Institute.

?!.

so, nivini detcrained that the kame ouse urc

• schts no current

intorcet, the only

still valld lesson is that portact with aniR should

inve bech coão airerdy in 1989, roon it wan first brought

to the attention of tiel

pas 141-6

VpJ.

---

