rod 10021-0019

2-312

a0:

A

UNITED STATES Livan’.

any : a

NO OF JUSTICE

UO INVESTIGATION

Misal, Plorica
Juno 21, 1963

Tntevconttnencal Penetration Forces
(intexpeay
Neutrality “acter



y
: Ra: Intercoatineate] Penetre é
: ’
: @ ploa to stezl these guns feos Mi :
is working out cotcils,
eclls to Morino's house, cad wa: =
OMe on appOlnemuat uo meet wd
3532. Sow Szvcer, 29, 1963, at’... cen

ve Wilsoa,

loving morning «



Swe house, Le



26;
tag two other Geb. ol
the guas for & st
por. ang:

acion wagon “end
ouse,

he

© threaten:
helt

one then vese.

a

ga's

by

Ss Unized Scates Customs agencs.
hoe weneved the .5:

» Chiet, Cussoms Pore +

shat Rey 1



113th Tesres,
Rous
shezged

t, Title

26,



Rt@l Peaccration Forces

on Ruse 29) 1963,
and

etion of Tizle 26,

23 Coca, tae <é

Tae Sen ware Doing
shey wose uncdle to Boke $1,009.60 bond.



fa bepsy ite

aia
ea

Pecro Luis Dice

internal Sec,

lity Matsa

ay oF .,

Leaz
ye > Cuba

Y2C6 EGS



Ss
os
N“
ay -
> >
_ .—
2.8 ag
ar gh aes 4
aes ed alt
o cial ga
Ragas a8
bia fe
GQ Q
:! bs td oe pea
to
2.
Ag
fea
2 oO
3%

is con

ke

Ve:

3 OZic

Ss

cy,

ss)

9
ot
os
Q



Ciesteuer’
v ca ve

ffesstacopossspeovessstlfener attain season esaeastaaefar
oN ‘ : -

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 13, BG
3 Ae

ESTAS. er,
DBA wwe

“Date? - June 22, 1963

Tor: Deputy Conissioner : ‘ an 9
Division of Investigations and: : ye zy
Enforceacnt 7 a a

_ Bureau of ‘Custos i: ; "Sy

Proaz John Edgar tloover, Dircetor :

‘NENTAL PENETRATION FORCES) : :
(CINTERPEN) ; Heel ,

INTERNAL SECURITY = (CUDA:
NEUTRALITY MATTERS

©) Subject: INtEncox

SReference. is mace to previous information furnished
concerning the captioned organization. 4

On the evening of June 18, 1963, an infornant who
hes furnished reliable infornation ddvised as follows:

One Richard ‘Lockley (phonetic) of Collinsville, [
illinois, driving, a late nodel. station waron, was in Miami, ae Am.
Florida, with a lozd of miscellencous cutoratic weapons sone

of which he hed reportedly sold to the Second Naticnol Front patad 4 :
os t3H25 ie

of Uscanbray cn Comundos L,, anti-Castro orgenizations, and
- Joe Corus of _ Pia ier beter Fockley has wile
cen teken around “ioant by frank gatbony Sturgis, also known
as Vrank Fiorini, and Gerald Patrick lexaing, American ca
adventurers. ce po pew 2 i
zOne Morino, en Aacrican residing in Nialenh, Florida,
reportedly has a large quantity of aras in hia hone which he
has tried to sell to ‘Uesaing, “Hexving and about four other
Interpen nenders. planned to acet Morino on June 18, 1963
on the pretext o? purchasing the aras and then rob hia of the
Morlno, hoxever, cid not keep the eppointncent.
i $4 on armed robbery of Norino’s house was’ scheduled
$3, 1963, by Hemaing, Lockley and the four Interpen
Lockley clained he would bring along a machine gun
which he would use if the police were encountered in this

undertaking.

eee my

1

249356



Deouty. Comai ssioner i

Piviston of Investigations ond.
Euvorcencne: :

Curcau of Custons

The Lureau of Customs in Miowl was furnished the : oi

foregoing information,

Inquiry by our Springficld, T1linots, Office:
indicates. that the license on the Staticn-wazon being
! criven by Lockicy was issued to Rich Albert Loychii, :
2910 Keebler Street, Collinsville, Illinols, Information a
available to oir Springficle Office indleates that Lauchlf —
iso gun collector who has previous! heen Investigated
bythe Alcoliol snd Tobacco Tax Division for {llega Bie
posscssion of automatic weapons, Lauchl was convieted in
connection with the theft of twenty-three rocket kaunchers.
1 frou the Jefferson Proving Grounds, tlacison, Indiana, in
March, 1959,. In 1959 Leuchli nade an unsuccessfal atteapt i
to organize an- Internal security force which would serve a
as a last ditch resistance in the event of on eneay
invasion of the United States. In 1961 and 1962 Leuchli
was active as kecioual Director of the “Hinutenen,” en s
ticonmmist muerrilla warfare noveacnt in the United States, LS
Laucnlt was arrested by local authoritics near Collinsville,
Hlinois, in vetoper, 1961, for the illezal possession of
autowatic weapons during a "Minutenen® training session.
Leuehlt vas born January 23, 1926, in St. Loul3, Hissouri,.
and served as a puratrooner'in Unlted States Aray froa
warch 17, 1945, to october 9, 1946,

On June 2%, 1963, Custons in Mani advised that
arrests had been made in this matter and that weepons
Were confiscated, Roy Hargraves, Joe Garvan, Hike Horino, ‘
Wilson and xnother incivicual were exong. those arrested,
ing was not in the area wien the arrests were acde end
ustoms Conterpliates no action efainst bi : E

Any. additional pertinent information received
in this. matter will he mado available to the recipients.

l-+ Sirector
uureau of Intelligence and Research

Departaent of State See

