# 104-10171-10077

## Page 1

104-10171-10077

NO

INDEX COAS

CR053

TIMERENCE TO

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

- LONDON

ACTION

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:

SECRET

-ADDP"

300 6, 0o0s,

DODS/M 4, CA 2,

cu/re 2,

• UN TO 00/15 AD/Ci: 2,

19-300-4.

ROUTING:

5

MAR 28.19242 63

ROUT INE

IN 96384

ToCs: -3/541,997

O DIR INFO LANT WAVE CARA SNO CITE LOND 14745.02

INTEL/DYVOUR/PBRÜMEN

SUPDATA SOURCE SMOTHY

RETURNTO CIA

TIME FILED: 13382

Background Use Only :

Do Mot Reproduce

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM OEL - 35044 CUBA/RATIN

AMERICA SUBU ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN RESISTANCE

MOVEMENT JUNTA REVOLUGIONARIS (JURE DOI CURRENT PADA ENGLAND

LONDON 28 MARCH 63 SOURCE OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM

"REGULAR SOURCE, PROBABLY RELIABLE, QUOTING ORLANDO CASTRO."

ROUTINC

RID/ A!

RID/&7S

117-

RC

IW COMMENT,

DO SEPARATE CABLE DISTRIBUTION IS BEING MADE OFRISIS, TOCS:

R

EAS

12

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON,

TOCS

J. PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OEL 35,044

NP (SMOTH]

01

MAR 29

0210 863

LIAISON,

ЛАСиВІ

SECRET

ACIVOID FIONA AUTOMATIC

DIAAUCRADINO AND

LIC: ASSIPICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS. PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

YOD

---

## Page 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY M

Mango line fue la Use so

494e+."0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

LATIN AMERICA

ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES Or CUBAN

REFISTANCE MOVINENT

DI

NATION CON

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT

NO.: TOCS" -3/541,997

DATE DISTR

28 MARCH 1963

RECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES

IN 96384

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

28 MARCH 1963

ENGLAND, LONDON (28 MARCH 1963)

DATE ACO.

FIELD REPORT NO.

oeL 35, 044

APPRAISAL

¡ THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE CRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS YENTA

SOURCE, 9 LORACDO BRITISH SERVICE FROM "REGULAR SOURCE, PROBABLY RELIABLE, QUATING

IN EARLY MARCH, ORLANDU CASTRO, HEAD OF PROPAGANDA

DIVISION OF JURE AND ITS REPRESENCATIVE IN VENEZUELA, REVEALED

THAT JURE'S PRINCIPAL LEADERS OUTSIDE CUBA WERE:

MANOLO RAY - HEAD OF JURE;

RAUL CHIBAS - FORMER OFFICER IN CASTRO'S REBEL ARMY,

NOW RESIDENT NEW YORK. HE CONTROLS FLANNING OF

MILITARY OPERATIONS;

ROGELIO CISNEROS - RESIDENT IN MIAMI.

COOPDINATOR JURE'S

UNDERGROUND ACTIVITIES IN CUSA:

JOSE GOMEZ - FORMERLY OF GIC (CONFEDERACION DE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOZEIGN DISSEN

коритоккому

. ABA

NIC

AID lUBIA OCI

one.

oc#

ORA OB1.

EXO

16N3

TRELSURY

REPCINGLANT

TELEGRAMS

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

(89

---

## Page 3

INOC-OCLASSIFY TO PILE NI..

NO.

INCEI-CIASSIFY IO FILE NO

REFERENCE

TO FILE

Y

R

0

CLASSIFICATOI

SECRET

, 2g

-Ґ'a:

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS.3/541,997

TRABAJADORES DE CUSA).

RESIDENT IN MIAMI. SPECIALIST

IN TRADE UNION AFFAIRS;

ORLANDO CASTRO - RESIDENT IN CARAÇAS;.

JOSE SAN MARTIN - RESIDENT. IN PUERTO RICO. FORMER MEMBER

GRAU MARTIN'S PARTIDO AUTENTICO.

•2. JURE IS ENCOURAGED SY. INCREASING SUPPORT FOR ITS

THESIS THAT INTERNAL RESISTANCE ALONE WILL BE EFFECTIVE IN

OVERTHROWING CASTRO: JURE RECEIVES FIRM BACKING FROM THE

CONFEDERACION DE TRABAJADORES VENEZOLANOS (CTV), WHICH ALSO

PROMOTES SUPPORT FOR JURE FROM OTHER LATIN AMERICAN. LABOR

LEADERS,

IT IS ANTICIPATED CTV WILL. SOON GRANT FINANCIAL AID

TO JURE:

3. AT A MEETING OF TRADE UNION LEADERS IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

IN LATE FEBRUARY 63, IT WAS ALSO ACREED THAT ONLY INTERNAL

INSURRECTION WILL SOLVE THE CUBAN PROBLEM. ALTHOUGH JURE

WAS NOT MENTIONED BY NAME AND NO OFFERS OF AID WERE MADE,

JURE IS ENCOURAGED BY THIS DEVELOPMENT. MEETING WAS ATTENDED

BY ANGEL MIOLAN OF THE PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO: DOMINICANO

(PRD), BY ARTURO JAUREGUI OF THE ORGANIZACION REGIONAL

INTERAMERICANA DE TRAZAJADORES (ORIT), AND BY REPRESENTATIVES

OF CTV. AND THE PUERTO RICAN UNIONS.

4. GOVERNOR MUNOZ MARiN OF PUERTO RICO IS ALSO A FIRM

SUPPORTER OF

SECRET:

JASSPICATION

PATROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PAO!

9638

-8

---

## Page 4

-INDEX-CEDOSIFY

TO F.LE.NO

SECRET

CLAISUICAIION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TOCS-3/541,797

5.

; RECENT INCIDENTS OF SABOTAGE INSIDE CUSA WERE NOT THE

WORK OF. JURE'S ORGANIZATICN. JURE WILL BE STARTINE INTERNAL

OPERATIONS, INCLUDINS SABOTAGE, WITHIN NEXT FEW MONTHS.

DETAILS OF. THESE PLANS ARE NOT KNOWN OWING TO NECESSITY FOR

COMPLETE SECURITY. LANDING OF CLANDESTINE SUPPLIES IS CUBA IS

PROVING: INCREASINGLY DIFFICULT AND DANGEROUS.

6. PRINCIPAL OBJECTIVE OF JURE'S ORGANIZATION IN CUBA

REMAINS TO PERSUADE THE NONCOMMUNISTS IN CUBAN. ARMEO FORCES

AND CIVIL SERVICE TO ALLY THEMSELVES ACTIVELY WITH THE

RESISTANCE GROUPS.

•7• FIELO DISSEM: STATE CINCLANT. CINCARIS.

• Sáj84

PAGA

3

R

C

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

•CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATON CON: EJ

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

