face

. ‘DIRECTOR
BELL 10
wt 5, s/c 2°

PRITY WAVE ito : ge oie
SMZEP ADMD SBCTR.” ;
REF: WAVE '7254 (IH 12962)

colic AND OOURAE RIS HATE BSG ALENT To ARRIVAL FRANCISCO MTUNTO .
LEH DELGADO. VISA WAIVER I PROCESS, WILL BE ADMITTED AS VISITOR WITH
Be2 VISA TO PERMIT RETURN PER PARA 3 REF. i;

BND OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT? Advised of LEON's plans to arr West Palm Beach on 28 duly
for meeting with MRP officials, and return to Cubae

: : ieee a5) ee

a eo
J.C. aay - faiyl./sur?

(7 ciaR?, Wi

coongimating ‘entice
seceasine onricee Ava aurwenrieatine ovens
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. copy Ne.



hups://asc-app-01:7002/jfk/boxes/JEK64-28/coversheets

SECRET

ull

CUME

Il

Box Number: JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10193-10027
CADRE Ref ID: C00558116

Pub Date: 07/20/1961
Pages: 1

C00558116
104-10193-10027

9
SECRET

15 of 105 1/12/2015 1:54 PM


RETUBN TO CLA
Background Use Cnly

Do Not Reproduce eo
CR k 224 ie ae

Me Yama ses oa,
Seen ted Fine ny, CY
RE CW idle copy we ientiewted ww

- IMO. WH 5, S/C 2 :

To PRITY AVE Into : : creoe = OT772
oar
REF: A, WAVE 7198 (18 40530)®

B. WAVE Te07/(IH 41i22)e0

A, ACCORDING TOYO RECEIVED HERE FROM AMCOAX-ONE, MERPING WAS HELD TH
HAVA 7.JUL BY MER, MEP, 30 NOY, RESCATE, DR, MDC AND UR FOR PURPOGE UNIFYING
UNDERGRAD AT WHICH TT WAS DECIDED MENDOZA WOULD BH,SENT MIAMI AS EXTERRAL
_ CO-RGEEATCR MPR.” DLAPATCHL FOLLOWS. WHILE WS‘HAYE RO KNOWLEDGE KUBARK
‘MONSTEION AS ALLARD, XP 18 cAMCKIVABLpanDoCA ZomeTORR NCCAL-ORE oR
MOUS AS REPRESIVTONO KUBARE,: :

2, CONCUR SUSFENSIGH CONTACT AMRANG-FOU.

: ND ov NeganaR
H WE CORSYT: . #Concermed changes reported Miami press by Manolo RAY and external

soi deatrep, s*Said in view developments, if Hye concurred WAVE would suspend _
Sentact with AMBANG-h, vho,menber MRP external committee and one of signera

published protests,"

Wi/s/EM (Poxich--in dratt)
fiestas
ale. xa, Chu, _ cooromatns OTE R. XK.” DAVIS, C/n/>
vettagina oopiete ae Aurmenticatina orreee

Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Copy Mo.

i TEAM 539 aalSPRODUC

750
