(When Filled In)

i04-0479-40057] +
_

fies ite (Submit original and 4 copies to scc)

=. ° SPECIAL CLEARANCE and/or BILLET APPROVAL ate

22 September 1966

SUBJECT!S NAME y,

E. Howard HUNT = a

FOR SCC USE ONLY

ORGANIZATION

CIA
DD/P

SUB-DIVISION

COMPONENT

APPROVED

cous cope
DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH :
9 October 1918 7 | | teas
Position BILLET Nos
aes
Group P_739 hibit
MILITARY RANK MILITARY SERIAL NO’ il
39-43
Az

EUR T bedihide] Sta STeINT OFFICER DATE
3 CHIEF, SCC Pane,
To ’ APPROVED — wT
H
PPR
: PROVAL BE onan? FOR "yp gunect IN THE FOLLOWING SPECIAL R APPROVED wat aT
ROJECTS Erne CONCUR
(also indicated in Column at right) APPROVED mare
u ry
JUSTIFICATION REFERENCE pp
APPROVED

Mr. Hunt has been designated
assistant to Chairman, NATO Intelligence CONCUR

APPROVED
Collection Working Group (USIB), and

is required to appraise the effect of
possible changes in the NATO structure
on U.S. collection capabilities.

billet
The above obexaxamee should be considered
supplemental to P 691.

| see REQUESTER"S MAIL ADORESS (Rm-Bldg)
ATTACHMENT 7 B 03, Headquarters
TO: CHIEF, PSD/+p=4
CAR CNIEF, cee ts0/ctA ee
To: sce Date D e3
ZF. 7 rae

CASE NO. _—_____SUBJECT MEETS ESTABLISHED SECURITY CRITERIA FOR THE SPECIAL ECEARANCES

REQUESTED. NOTE ATTACHED COMMENT, ss
CJ :
i 67
At, ue x Zu 68
Na os = Tap/104 svewaTinee wt i [ss
SCC INDEX SEARCH: : XT S00 TNDEXING ACTION 70
‘ae cS we ig ta3see ~ (new. noo [7] chance - oxo 7
TO? PEQUESTER _——— V pate Gori fp a 72
se eee
a SUBJECT HAS BEI is

IX] AOVISE C/SCC OF DATE BRIEFED APPR Ov a 75 He
2 7
[LJ see arraciuenr ra PRR hey 7

enter, ace Ts0/era 70 :
FORM 2018a toittons SECRET [| = ae oes ;
Bre TURN To Cc
jackground Use Only

Do Not Rep;

roduca
