# 104-10222-10050

## Page 1

104-10222-10050

iff.

RECOMMENDATION

FOR HONOR

OR HERIT AWARD

(submil In triplledle: 800 n8 20-391

SECTION

PERSONAL DATA

Modelay

POSITINA PITIF

JI GAMENI

8. 08fter dar. 117,

DDPH

operations Cher fos nib

TATION

10. MUNE PHONE

Mexico CHly, Mexico

Ericatinito Anato

I trina condo orderer

Certificate of Merit

30 June 1073

RAHN 02 943907H19

T8. PELATIONSHIP

роб. нам"

June 1973 consen Pa

mere Prot

Wife

Mexico City Mexico

SECTTE T

RECOPTEMDATION FOR AVARD FOR HEROIC ACTION OR ACCEPIANCE OF HAZARD

SCOT. DOU AN EYCHOTNESS TO THE AC!

PERSONNEL IN INMEDIATE VICINITY OR WHO ASSISTEO IN ACT ON SHANED TA SAMI HAZARDE

80. FULL NAME

I1. DROR. TITLE : TOR. ORADE INS: OPPICE OF ASSISTANT.

L'IST ANY UF THE ADOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARO OR RECOMMENDED FOR

AMARD. FOR PANTICIPATING IN ACTS

24.

FULL PALE

SO. ADANO RECOMMENDEO

CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH ACT WAS PERFORMEDI

PO, LOCATION

27.

TACLUSIVE DATES

20. FAEVAILING GEOGRAPMIE CONDITIONS ANO DESTACETO ENCOUNTEREO

20. POSE OF DAY

ASILEMMIAT COMPLETEO

32. PUT IN SAME

on

SECTION C

Э 3.

за.

RECOMKENDATION FOR ANARD FOR ACHLEVEMENT. SERVICE, OR PERFORMANCE

DO PID MONE PERSONAL.

ORMANCE

TING

CiNVICE OR MAFDANANCE

Supervisor oil

30 line telephone Intercept center.

95.

Mexico city Stato and ication)

responsimilarirs on

10N

.. General supervision of telephone intercept center.

B. Supervision of 14

monitors and transcribers.

•. Maintenance of affrecmrail cquipment used in the center.

D-_Administration andaccountability for.operationalfunds of.applus.53.000nonthly

June 19G0 - June 1973 09 x/

ASSICAMENI COMPLICO

HON IN SAME

AND ASSISTES OR CONTRINUTED SUUSTANTIALLY TU THE SERVICE GR PERFORMANCE

10. PiLl give

TI. DAGH. TITLE

# 2.

GRADE 149. OFFICE OF ASSURATES

¿SY DE THE ADOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AHARD OR RECURINDED

FOR AMANO FOR PARIICIPATINO IN THE PERFIANCE

fALL

AB. TUPE OF ÁRARD

101.8 600-18

00 - 1, 7

6/рV

SECRET

---

## Page 2

"'..

sond loe Mergis Arrio de Asrepeed of Mutuod: Wor ort reiuntar;? Dorribo why mel sus oristanding, end if # bes une den normally orgarte

10, 10-9, sudy, Brot Dare.

no aridó or marino aorona demeibo lyo ond portion al preil tres partier e indinical pad oll purial cortumnneso.

Intente se9ul90 nl lhe 240. Enclore unelenitad ciertos

bovel foe Arbioramont, Souvica, de Portarmando: Seros adornalae al servio doling parind fue unhl rememonded. (iso mmaleto aooriplien el momio.

estoslno, fosionial, de pesteronol dolés end respondros ll noe cororad la Sorros li imino toro el argamont oné reial! What die the indleidrol

do sas monito the prord?

Why mes this outstradico sion compriet lo olhor of lido provo ond repartenso. in niponer misione de arenmelantest ll

Wasi ofstarlos mero anuntual or grersomel larlicato re

or o todo baude sreveio prode and uiado aero lo rute paron como a oetera de o ataión diody on la male

"ta ol setterpmane, serrico, or portarmance

upporta ande resonmonialior, Enilore unetensified citati

09

who plans lo retire 30 June 1973, has Ken assigred to

Mexico City Stationi

Jas an operations officer under non-

official.covci.

Durng this entire perlod lis ormary responsibility has been the

superlision and technical maintenance of'n

relephone intercept center. Although

Mel

has performed his personnel supervision and operational financlal

responstoniligs in a thoroughly capable manner, his outstanding contribution to the

success of this

_telephone intercept operation has been in the area of technical

maintenance of the equipment

ised continuously lor ove

Mexico City Station there Mas never veen a period when the intercept operation lind te

be suspended because of equipment millunclion or putage.

In the narrative of a

fitness report dated 7 Decemben eny Me.

Epervisor stated--"the egulpinent

which he maintains is for the mest part al reast tergears old and requires constan

maintenance and the use of improvised parts, Subject has used his ingenulty and

sense of responsibillly to improvise and keep the operation golng.

There has yet lo

e, to out knowledge, a moment when operations have been suspended due to his

mability to keep the equipment going.". In another fitness report of JanuaryGo" 1l€

rating offleer stated that--"In his day-to-day performance Subject continues lo save

us a great deal of money not only by being economical in the way he purchases and

uses supplles but additionally by keoping equipment in operation which is not used

IXI CONTINIRO iN APTÁCICO SUELT

DA POTS NOT HAVE PERSONAL AYONLEDGE OF THE ACT

ATTACH AFFIDAVITS DE EYERITNESS OR INDIVIDUAIS

PERSONAL ANÔMLEOGE DE

PROPOSCO CITATION

INITIATED BY

OYCE MARINO DECON

Tames E.

Flannery

SECTION E

lamele de Liarin

20.

RECOMVENDATION FORMARDED

Neting Chief, WH Division

JAROUGH OFFICIALS CONCERNEO FOR THEIR INFORMATION:

¡Coroes

90.

D

Perdie of rosinoes

.. CARRER SERVICE

Sie Item #52

AND SIGNATUHE

SEATE

ipare

OSPUTE DIRECTOO OF

88.

Ilem 852

DIFUIY CIRILICA

OF OPERATINO CUMPUTENI

ropu Directa tor

SECRET

Operations

DATE

8 JUN 1970

1 16 Ju.

(3/12

---

## Page 3

= 2 =

Section D Nirralive Description Continued.. i..

any longer in the Agency operations. Visiting lechniclans are

always amazed to find the equipment in use and functloning sub-

stantially as il was on the day it was installed. " The reviewing

official for the same fitness report commented that--. "The

Station necds him, cannot do without him and cannot find any

fault in his performance. "

In addition to the comments in various fitness reports as

noted above, the DCOS, Mexico City Station; submitted the

following summary re Mr

performancé of dutles in

support of his recommendation for an award for Mr.

performance has bech consistently évaluated at

strong to outstanding level. His many rating officers over the

ycars have each reached the conclusion that it would be all but

Impossible lo find a replacement that would be able to deal with

some concluded that

was Irreplaceable?

level rapport aid an excellent working relationship with the

concerned with the intercept center's operation for

years - a unique achievement in itsel - despite

circumstances that would not have been tolerated by ottiers of

lesser ability and dedication.

Through personal initiative and

perseverance

has enanied the Agency lo accrue substantlal

savings of fuids by maintaining obsolete equipment in excellent

erceptional capabllities

ope elors, the center achieved an outstanding record of un-line

ind efforts,

time and production despite the age and condition of the equipment

and facilities avilable. Bj consisteit application of diligent

and unsellish professional effort??

turned a relatively.

routine techniel assignment into a mgmy producuvel

124

operation of sustained operational and intelligence production

value to the Slatton and to the Agency. "

In summary, Mr.

pis performed his duties at the

telephone intercept center in Mesico City for the

years in a truly dedicated, professional, and outstanding manner.

his outstanding performance of duty over such an extende

criod ol time is a creditto wir.

and certainly worthy of

the award recommended herein as he retires from the Agency.

124

15/00

---

