_DISPATCH E

. chiel of Btstion, Caressa

unter, ee

Sher of Base, WAVE

ined
ph

Br Patt

1, . Aa ineresding ourber of Cubes exiles are nov arrt
8 safecentucts are alovly lasoed by the Cuban Goveriunct for asyleos in
the varicris foreign exheasine in Rebams vio tok refuge Gurteg Agri) 198.
Avon (ene axles are soma: tho toctan activa part in different undar-
ground aed goorrtlia groups oppoatiig tha Castro ecverment, gone of than
aro tow laying to get visas co teat ty can report’ shut their clanestios
Sctivities to their cupertors in thy cuban groupa fo Minat. CIARK-1 bas
providad Ge etation with tha imma of the flinwing paras tq this cate-
sory wos betas sit in thy course of Ms eckivitian jn trying ‘td. help
Te-locmte tha Cubea éxlles obv'erriviag inthe eoustry).

’ S -Aogar antoito-4giqMALe canta « born 19 ovenbor 1907
Recker JER ho ‘Lepanis ‘to sopors® Sralte DUZI. (Sno ‘aloo

Cocar SSCTRCARAY Gurveirs born b April 19¢b.- suber _..,
Hi2 who intents to report’ to Evelic NYE together wih GRRALS ---

oa c. Eravstizo Cocilion *ARESU Sorta - barn ‘LL Roveabor 1924,:
‘axber WOH vho was “reqpoasable wiiiter® for thn MAR in tbs |”.
_ Wtuyiose.of Metanses vho imtende w resort to Dr. Oscar GALAS.

| 4; Late Basho $B04A Doatngues - tom 22 october 1936 ° :
Somber of the Directorio Rotrtiosttil, i * pastas
“og Guillermo Aurolto S8OGA Doriagase - born 9 Fohroaxy. .
gto,” Ssx@er of ‘the Dirsetorie EstoMantil, - -
. f.  Stosréy MOARIEA Darlaget - born 25 March 19M. Kesher *
of te Osidal Guuluetonerts wo used thy nave Jum Sautlsta
Sanches Girtog Undergrad activities, : :

2. since the. local conmulete op loager normally tesues tourist visga |
to oay Given exiles but tesicte'on thatr applying for imsigretion visas, i
weich require i"- 6 quokn miting tim et a nlnimw, the Station tould "~
Srureciate any actica keatmerters my vied to take throwh Liston to
suthorize ths local conmlate to issue tourist vives to ibe abow nated |

‘

persona.

uN tome

