# 104-10086-10399

## Page 1

104-10086-103996

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS!

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

Declassified and Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2-pü 003

SU"JECT:

Pelay

OSWALD

in sending the first cable about

Much has been written about the delay (by. the Mexico

the first cable reques ting

dis cussed in

case of laziness on

the part

of the Soviet case officer

view was

and unnecessary

and indicates

that Dave

didn't know wat he

was talkirg about).

2. Normally

the Spanish transcript for the 1 October

conversation would have been picked up on

theorarning of the

2nd of October.

to the Russ ian/English

The Russian language por

21d have gone

trans criber.

translation would have

at

nich

been returned the

October.

The

Owing day

time,

the Soviet case office

the photographic coverage.

That cou

in chestation before the 7th s in

camera on the

the

3rd of October

day

whid rout have been se

would not have been

film was still in the

was

picked up probably on

Station on the next work

October.

3 .

Later the fil

but at that time,

tha

TOIl was completed

aken

out of the camera

every

day

stayed in the camera until a full

might take three or four

days.

4.

A name trace could have been requested on the bas is

of the name alone

but that wasn't the way

Win

• Scott ran that

Station.

He wanted the photographic coverage tied in with

teleph one coverage

•as ometimes there was.a U.S. automobile

licens e number..

It was

also part of the "numbers game" of

reports as celet by. the number of dis patches, cables or

produced.

the

0000151

Copy

1ot

Ar

SECHET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET

2 May 1977

SUBJECT:

Review of Mexico City Station Files

at the Warrenton Record's Center

1. On 2 May 1977 Chris Hopkins and Annie Goodpasture

visited the Warrenton Record's Center to review old Mexico

City files in search of additional photographs of the

"unidentified man"'. We were unable to locate any such

photographs.

It appears that earlier photographs may have

been destroyed in a purge of Mexico City Station files and

that the folders for the destroyed material were re-used to

forward more recent photographic material to Headquarters

for retention. Following are the Job numbers of boxes reviewed

and pertinent notations re re-use of the old folders:

Job #70-236 Box I of 3

LILYRIC Photos

1 February - 1 March 1968

(Filed in re-used folder,

LILYRIC 1 Aug. 1966 to 31.

6

Negatives

white letter-sized

envelopes - five

packages C-1873 - 2031

1 March - 1 April 1968

Back folder - re-use

folder 1 Sept

66

Front folder

folder 2 Dec

66

led

LILYRIC

28

Feb 64

1 April - 2 May 1968

Back folder re-used LILYRIC

folder 2 Mar 64 thru 29 May 64

Front folder re-used LILYRIC

folder 1 Nov thru 15 Dec 66

0000152

JFK # 056

Copy lofT

Continued

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

6

Box #9

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #10

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #11

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #12

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Job #73-506

File # 50-6-74/3

Box #1

STPEOOUCTION PRONBITED

LICALLA

70

Aug

Sept

Oct

Nov

Dec

70

70

70

70

Jan & Feb

Mar & Apr

May & June

July & Aug

Sept & Oct

Nov & Dec

70

70

70

70

70

70

70

Dispatch HMMT 11,368, dated 17 March 1972. Photos were filed ir

re-used subject and "p" folders (equivalent of subject 201 folders),

indicating contents of "original" subject and "p" files were

destroyed.

Ref (to previous shipment) (HMMA 40,562, 21 May 71.

0000157

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

14-00000

1 June - 3 July 1967

Clean folder

3 July. - 31 July 1967

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

July - Aug 64:

Front flap clean

1 Aug 67 - 4 Sept 67

Clean folder

4 Sept - 2 October 19

Clean folder

PRODUCTION PROMBITED

2 Oct - 31 October 1967

Clean folder

1 Nov - 22 Dec 67

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

12 Apr 66 - 18 May 66

Front flap re-used incoming cable

chrono folder 1-31 Jan 65

9 Jan - 31 Jan 68 .

Front flap re-used LILYRIC folder

I July thru 31 July 1966

Back flap - clean

Job #70-236 Box 3 of 3

LICALLA Photos

2 Jan - 27 Feb 1967

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder.

5 Nov 62 - 31 Jan 63

0000154

mansenses

Continued

---

## Page 5

14-00000

14-00000

4-

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Dec 66 - 15 Feb. 67

1 Mar - 28 April 1967

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Feb - 29 June 63

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

20 Feb - 31 May 1967

* 2 May 67 - 30 June 67-

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

23 July 63 (Y-1257) to

30 Nov 63 (Y-1308)

Front flap re-used

LICALLA folde

I Sept thru 30 Nov 1966

PROM BITED

3 July - 30 August

Back flap re

19 Sept 6:

30 Nov 63

HO TIN

714)

Front flap LICALLA re-used folder

I June thru 30 June 1967

1 Sept - 27 Oct 1967

Back Flap clean

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Aug - 31 Aug 1967

6 Nov - 29 Dec. 1967.

Back flap clean

front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1. July. - 31 July 1967

3 Jan = 28 Feb 1968

Front flap re-used

I LICALLA folder

1 July thru 31 August 1966

Back flap Czech photos re-used folder

Sept - Nov 64 .

0000155

Continued

---

## Page 6

14-00000

14-00000

- 5

-

1 March thru 29 April 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA (C)

28 Nov 61 to 10 Feb 62

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Apr to 1 July 1966

2 May thru 19 June 1968

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder (Y-907 to Y-969)

12 Sept 61 - 23 Mar 1962

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Jan thru 31 Mar 1966

N.B. There was no coverage from 19 June to 15 July 1968

15 July thru 30 August 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

23 Nov to 27 Feb 1965

Job #72-626/36

File # 50-8-1

Box #5

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Contained nothing prior to 1967. Looking for 1963.

Job #70-209

Box #3 (Boxes 182 at Hqs)

Nokhing pertinent to our search.

Box #4

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #5

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #6 •

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #7

Nothing pertinent to our search..

Box #8

Nothing

pertinent to our search

0000156

SISTER

Continued

5

---

## Page 7

14-00000

6

Box #9

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box 110

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box 011

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Bax H12

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Job 473-506

File # 50-6-74/3

Box 11

PRORIBITED

[01

MUGTON

ConJ

Jan &

• Feb

Mar & Apr

Aug

Sept

Oct

Nov

Dec

70

May & June

70

July & Aug

70

Sept & Oct

70

Nov & Dec

70

70

70

70

70

70

70

Dispatch HMMT 11,368, dated 17 March 1972.

Photos were filed in

re-used subject and "p"' folders (equivalent of subject 201 folders),

indicating contents of "original" subject and "p!' files were

destroyed.

Ref (to previous shipment). HMMA HMMA 562, 21 May 71.

0000157

CUTE

6

---

## Page 8

114-00000

14-00000

SECKET SENSITINE

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. (Unilateral Coverage:

REPRODUCTOR ParaSIT

From the time. the Mexico Station was opened (in April 1947 unt1l

the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Stationin 1955, the Station had

developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multiline

phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobile surveillance team and a

mail intercept operation.

Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were placed by (an employee of the local

[telephone company_who was handled by a Station case officer. The number

of Bines tapped was limited only by the availability of a listening post

nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-

American recruited agents..

Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer

: assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station

on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These

operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC

and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-

bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

0000158

E2, IMPDET

CL BY 004645

READET COUSITNE

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET /SENSIVE

. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street

on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

• LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental

basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-

tion received word that the photograph of the "unidentified mari" was

being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in-the middle of

the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of a

row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet Embassy compound.

This site overlooked the back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by. a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites

three times a week. The film was then de-

veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips: LICALLA film was

originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

6600159

2

SECRET SENSITIVE

---

## Page 10

14-00000

REPRODUCTION PRONIBITED

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.

These

two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

which used late nodel cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team

could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of

interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since

they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a unilateral mail intercept operation,

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer. A recruited)

Mexican agent, who had a semiofficial status, obtained selected letters

from a subagent employed by the Mexican postal system:

2. (Liaison Coverage:

Liaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction

of Federal Security (DFS), With which we conducted liaison, was a hip-

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This-Ministry

was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

foreigners. Their agents were wins felt, and corrupt. LA Station

officer trained a number_of_them-in-name-tracing and travel control. In

(1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

0000160

3

---

## Page 11

14-00000

CLIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican

JArmy officers.

In 1961, (because of mismanagement by the Mexican prina

(cipals,) the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer:

Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening

post; and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also

an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

REPRODUCTION PROHBITEI

In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the

Joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the LIENVOY listening

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-

bassies in anticipation of possible coverage. The Station immediately

disconnected all of the unilateral telephone taps on these Embassies so

-that they would not be discovered when the Mexicans hooked up their.

(taps. The Mexicansisoon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

Soviet Tines, three Gzech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav

line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of

conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume

for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,

full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

C000161

SECRET SENSITIVE

10

---

## Page 12

14-00000

is a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location

for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-

tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations

usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation..

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

Station started screening all photographs. However, here again, there

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week

• but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the

technician who was processing the film, did so on a night-time basis.

Further, photographs were not made initially until a complete roll of

film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera.

at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused film remaining.

The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to

photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with

foreign license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents

were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated

equipment using a pulse camera wnich frequently developed niechanical dif-

ficulties.

Oswald came to the

REPRODUCTION PROUBATED

from a tap of the Soviet line. It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

0000162

5

SEGRET SENSITIVE

---

## Page 13

14-00000

14-00000

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.

There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the

photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in

either Spanish or English

since the Chief of Station could read only

these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

REPRODUCTION PROMBITED

CC00163

-SECRET SENSIVE

12

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

(SECRET

10 Feb 77

Source:

Motes

made by A. Goodpasture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Subject:

ackground on ¡lexico Station Support Asset

•Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies

1. Unilateral) coverage. Fron tre time the

(April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until ar

UCTION PROWBITED

ion was opened in

Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had deteloped a support apparatus to Fa

exoloit leads from the Soviet Embassy. This unbrella type project (LIFEAT).

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

team and a mail intercept operation.

a. Thore taps were placed by an employee of the telephone company/

retirest me

who was) handled by David WILSTED (pseudo)

The number of lines

tapped was lited by availability. or a listening post neardy

(since the taps were not made in the main central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, ete) transcribers. Generally

these agents (mostly Mexican or Mexican American) were related

(which the station at that time felt was good security in that

if they talked about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Arderson with the help

of Harry kahoney (retired, living in Chicago) end IDY ISD

people checking the best type of camera, film, and concealment

devices. These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LINITED, LILYRIC,

and LICALLA). LIMITED as a fixed

site bang opposite across

the street from the front gate of the Soviet Eribassy. which had

both a vehicle

and foot entrance.

The Soviet gate was on the

Northlest corner.of their compound and LIMITED was diagonally.

across a double barrelled street on the Southeast ta

ISECRET

400 6 00 1645

CC00164

JFK-0.56

CopylofT

SECRET

A-3.)

13

---

## Page 15

14-00000

that block. LIITID was the first base and it operaied

strictly on an

an arinental besis in the early stages. I trink the Mexi Station bought

one storey

this property (a/Spanish Colonial stone house) through LINOUSINE (check to

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word thet the photo of "uniden man" was being releasea to the

puolic by the warren Connission. The photo operators were moved to another apt

nearby. The property was sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to be built

on this site).

LILYRIC was planned es an alterna

base to LINITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on

he side of the street

as LIMITED but in the middle of the block Sgi

t had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy.

gents in LIMITED and LILYRIC (both

Mexican fanilies) as far as we knew

hot acquainted with each other®

LILYRIC was a rented apartment

the third photo site, was located

in one of a row of four hous

he South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

which the Mexico Station

sed in about 1958 (check date), also using

LIOUSNE as the purchaser (check). This site overlooked the back garden of

the Soviet Enbassy compound. The purpose of this operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (uno at thet time vere largely

unidentified in Mexico Station récords). The three photo sites vere handled by

(Ranon Alvarez) (ilexican citizen of U.S. mother who taught elerentary level at

the American School!). (Ranon collected the film entende

and LILYRIC three times a week. lis sister!s husband, (Carlos (Mexican doctor)}

developed and printed the film into 8x10 contact print strips. The master plan

MaS POX LIONELA '1m to i processed inside, Ta ian Iron 1957 to 1959 (arper)

Holt - resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed film began

to accumulate, the inside CO (l'ahoney) becane disgusted and took

the film out

for (Ramon 's brother-in-lal to process (probably early 1959). Thus (Ramon) became

the handler for all three photo

gases.

A sensitive staff D monitoring operation

ISEMET

0000165

14

---

## Page 16

14-00000

-3 =

SECHET,

was run out of another one of these houses (crypt for the four houses was

LT UST, 1, ote). This was ha:dled by Glen WILDE! (outside ISD officer) anci

Mahoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This operation vas also separate

from LICALLA®

The two houses in betveen vere rented to unsuscecting tenants.

c. jobile surveillance

was developed by Anderson and later placed

under liahoney and Joseph Sancho. This team

consisted of a half

dozen or so agents who used three to foir late model cars and a

panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo covera e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio

Soviet

when someone of interest left the/Embas;

hid

until they made their meetings.

NIZED BASE)

stay with them

nits knew about the INITED

BASE because they had LIMITF

This worked fairly well

[or identification purposes.

bout the middle of 1958 (check date)

when one of the si

was arrested by the

fice agents got too close to his target and

'exican transit police and turned over to the .

Mexican Secret Service. By the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to bail him out (Juad Austin of the Goodrich,

(Little and Riquelme firm), the agent had identified Sancho (who was

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside

phone number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Puckett). As a result of this flap, the LIFEAT project was broken

up into several others. The agents were not changed but were given

Frank

new crypts. /Estancona ard (Peggy Haggard) replaced Anderson in handling

the unilateral phone taps.. Puckett replaced liahoney and handled the

surveillance team (LIENTRAF) and the photo. bases through (Remon

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally)) mail

Intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, (The agent (Mexican) had

la seni official status and arranged to obtain selected letters fron

0000166

---

## Page 17

14-00000

wef-

Ca sub-agent in the jostal system (I thin' at the airport.

Alfonso Spera,

were later/ Fuckett, Robert Faldnann, and Alan White.

His case officers

2. LIaison

coverage

was unreliable and insecure as characterized by the nature

of the Hexican sorvices at that tine.

Ere l'exican DiS (Direction of Federal"

Security with which we dealt was a hip pocket group run out of the linistry

fOr Gov rent. This Ministry srent a major part of its

time

antrol of

[foreigners and colitical investications. Their agents

gatous, venal

corrupt extortionists. (Robert Melberg established

with

one of them

(Levine De Leon (later LIFIRE group) in about 1

He geve them some

training la group of about five surveilla

bes) in travel control working

_the airport as vell as file searches

s from DFS Hatrs where

the files

were poorly organized and ofte

érase..

How and then, however, some useful

information vas developed but itscould not be decended upon.

Melbergiwas

replaced by Phil Roettinger. (resigned and remained in Mexico), Mahoney, Thomas

Hazlitt, and Robert Feldmann Ane pter the Echer)

During 1958, Win Scott met socially some of the chronies of the

Mexican President elect, Adolfo Lopez liateos.

During this period, the U.S.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight cormunism".. One of these seeds

grew into a proposal Miguel Alenan (jr. son of forner ilexi' President), acting?

(for Locez l'ateos, made to Win Scott for a joint telephone tap operation. This

project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years.

a shakedown.

The Mexican in control (LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, and

greedy. His

Son

LIEIVOY-2,) was a masterpiece of deceit and corruption. LIELEGAT also

manipulated control over the

principal agent

of LIBIGHT rail intercept The

first case officer was Alfonso Spera inside with(Turner Smith (retired) outside

and John

(TSD training officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post where thirty telephone lines would connect as well as a transcription room

LSECRETI

0000167

16

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SERRET

staffed is lla ican arny officers!) Initiell the station tried to met every

demand

made by the Mexicans.

Both Smith and John hed Jarguage difficulties and

personal problems associated with being outside the stetion (so that the Mexicans

Were virtually uncontrollale, spendi: money as they pleased, squirrelling away

equipment at enoruous costs, and neglecting their part of the bargain(in the

production of transcripts or placing taps which we wanted! Spera was repiaced

by Jack Brady wno found himself in the same pincer

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady had

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant an

the project was

revarped. (SmithJand

nt of having Scott

In by the son, LIEVOY-?.

was little to show for it,

reburned

to the U.S. and were replaced

by a ISD officer, Charles Flick,

Brady was reassi

the

equipnent./ Scott too's ov

He designated Ann Goodpas

put inside the listening post to naintain

other duties pendirg a transfer.

project as case officer meeting with LTELEGANT.

dan!y

meet daiting with Flicklior routine supervision

of the listening post, peping up transcripts

and tapes.

Goodpasture had no

dealingswith the lexicans except when Scott was ill or out of town.. Generally,

all decisions were made by Scott. This was about late 1961.

3. My menory is a little vague about the origins

of the Cuban Embassy but I

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro

group

celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a rakeshift arrangement of volunteers

through most of 1960 and El with Tom Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on

their activities and recruitirg agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

lexico City.

4 Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in lexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

Warren Connission. To deternine who was there and what they were

doing I

have groped persons tozether chronologically with areas of their

as the

assignment

covering from 1950 to 1969 so that toadies nanes

pop up, one can tell what

period they were in Mexico and

their assignments, at

the time.

SECREE.

0000168

---

## Page 19

14-00000

8/50-6/69

COS

DCOS

- s

„SECRET

Winston 1. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/58 Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

10/58 - 12/62

7 (retired)

6/63 - 9/65

Alan White (retired)-

10/65 - 1969 (Stanley Watson (retired in Mexico

COVERT ACTION

Prior to 1954) Howard Hunt (retired)

12/54) - 7/59 Williard HilT) (resigned)

12/56 - 9/61

Stannard Short (retired)

Chief®

9/61

- 3/64

David Phillips C/(retired) m

8/62 - 9/64

2/64 - 6/65

Janes Plannery C/(retired) -

9/64 - 21/66

Harold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967.

(Stanley Watson C/ (retired)

66

68

68 - 71:

(Josepa SmithC (retired in

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Ch

2/60 - 4/62 Jack Stewart) (red

éd Costa Rica)

4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief

9/63 - 7/65 (Ray Swider.

20/63 - 5/65 Lorna lackay (netiad)

8/63 - 6/65 David Phillips Chior (ratinad)

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piccolo

•10/65. - 12/07 (Pesty Maggara)

PROHBITED

SOVIET TARGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Lyon (refused!

9/59- 8/65 (Herbert Kanell) Chief-

3/62 = 2/66 rare sent

4/05 - 11/67 Cyntria Fausmann

6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TPANSCRIBEPS

6/56 - 8/58 Morris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63 George Misko

maines

6/63 = 70

Boris Tarasolf (retired in Mexico) -

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps).

(retired ?)

Outside CO

LETERET,

0000169

18

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SUPFORT ASSETS

(Unilateral

phono taps

1949 - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

55)

- 4/60 Pegey laggord) Asst

4/56 - 1162

Frank Estancona Chief

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

9/64 - 12/67 Michael Farmer

(49-71):. Outside CO

David VILSTED (ps) .

retired in Mexico

(Unilateral photo Cubans

6/59. - 4/64

Robert Zambernardi

(resigned F'exico))

7/59 - 6/62 (Richard Scathar TSD) (retired)

BUCTION PROMBT

(Unilateral photo Soviets

3/54)- 4/59

Harry T. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

56

= 68 Outside Agent

Ramon Alvarez (resigned in Mexico)

5/57 - 8/64

A. Goodpasture (alternate. CO -

and internal routing)

6/58 - 6/63

Louis D. Puckett (retired)

6/63 - 10/64 Thomas. Keenan

65 -

Willian Bright

Robert H.6168

Feld mana

813)63.

Travelo

cabana Get spoting:

Liaison phone taps

2959 - 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

1959 = 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

1959 - 1960

(Turner Smith) (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960

John

(Training rept resigned)

1960-

1961

John brady (retired)

1962 - 1968

1961

Ae Goodpasture

- 1971

(Charles Flick) (outside TSD Staff gent - retired) -

Liaison - surveillance

(Erior 1952) Robert lelberg) (retired)

3/54 - 4/59

Harry lichoney

(retired)

4/59 - 1961

Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldinann (ve Fired)

TSD Outside unit

4/58 - 12/63

559-4664

Glen Widden (rotired) -

Joseph 1. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed down

frailed slands

0000170

19

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SECRET

About nid 1962 (check date) LINVOy outside Hext ropt asked"

-for the telephone nunders

of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Ebassies.

with tris forewarning, LIPRAT. (unilateral coverage)

was disconnected.

However,

as I recall, the Mexicans connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, and I lugoslav line. The basehouse listening post had a live

monitor to made short sumnaries of interesting convers

resume which was received each day arourd 8 a.m.

to get to Scott before 9.a.ñ.) Later (when th

full transcripts were typed and passed

there was usually & time lag of a

for a daily

by Flick to Goodcasture

was conpletely recorded)

station in the same way, however,

Those transcripts which had

Russien or another languege

canish or English went out of the listening

post the day after the tr

(of other conversations on the reel)was

typed. These reels were taken to another location where they were trenslated

and typed. In the case of the Russian translations, Boris Tarasoff usually ran

about a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume of

Russian conversations among the members of the Soviet Embassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the statión

and carried to Boris by one of the people from the Soviet Section or they nay

have been carried to him by flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to Herbert lanell! to take to Boris.

Verbert Hanell and his wife Barbara

handled all of the processi:g of Soviet transcripts. My job involved screening

the photographs

soon as we learned that the man calling himself Oswald was

probably an Anerican.

However, here again there was a backlag because the

photos were ricked up

three times a week but the ones picked up were usually

for dates a few days previously because the doctor procesed

the film on a

night time basis..

Photographs were made usually until one roll vas

used but

Iater ve tot it changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators cleared the camera each day whether there was annikaraxe a full:

roll of filn exposed.

Instructions were to cover office hours, photograph each

0000171

20

---

## Page 22

14-00000

-4-

SECRET

new Soviet and fanily, all foreigners and foreign licence plates.

error did occur but generally the agents were conscientious.

The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sophisticated equipient (a pulse ca:era) but it

frequently developed nechanical difficulties. Bob Zanbarnardi and Spathar

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna lacilay

screened

the film inside the station.

I am certain that the Oswald call

Soviet line.: It was picked up and taken to Boy

the caller was trying to speak Russian.

came

ttention from the

translation because

was

caused by waiting to

compare the photographs with the ty

cript.

transcripts every made in langi

Scott could read only thos

other than Spenish or English because Win

There were no copies of

languages ard he rersonally screened the

transcripts for operational leads he wanted pursued.

_STORET,

CC00172

21

---

## Page 23

1.00000

..

Phate Baaee

14-00000

SEGNEP.

PROMBITEO

(4) 50r En6 gate

I- LIMITED

2-LILYRIC

3. LICALLA

arap

BIbTTE

0000173

77

---

## Page 24

14-00000

-SECRET

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

TUESDAY 16h OCTOBER 1963

Covergga: 900 to 1900

LOg File 144

20 [axp

Waather 1/100

Camera Setting 3,5-2.5º

1 1251 2URY platean con KAL en el jardin

2 80 00 08

08 88 89 00 00.80

OB 88 08 G0 OB GO BO. DO DO

$SE/848686898682868985858948%89878%89S986898895848956858%S98968088688956868

WEDNESDAY 2 OCTOBER 3963

Coverage:

900 to

1900

311139 ANOV

Ous UN & Norte por Tacubaya-Daspide

DIDi

Chev

375

Д 0 O0 P0 90

8. 09:88:90.08.08

• 88

00. 00 00

80 00

З 2150 U MM.

ou! a. Norte por Tacubaya en

ardo (entr81141)

71033 DF

.6 1205 LEON

In QURy de Oriente por

ontepee

de Falcon

372

* 88 00.00

do 08 80

98 D009808070

8 1286U8M

6218 U-A 88

: 180

de Sur por

de

camioneta Cher( sal181218).

52137 DF

de Sun

Tacubaya

10

B 0D

80 00 80 8 00 00 08

l minute

20-464

out a Norto por Tacubaya

CO DE DO DO DE DO DO D

IB DD DO D0. 08 08 OP 00.

OD 00.00

88 80 808800

00 '80

8D 80

2$ 1248 VAZQUEZ

out a Norte por lacubaya

25 00 D0 00 D0 88 i8 d0 00

P0 00 00 88 88

16 1259 TEPO

out à Norte por Tacubaya de Chev (entr& 1218)

D

167

THURSDAY 3 OedOber 1963

Doverage:

900

1900

171200 UH W

in de Morte por Tacubaya

28 1204

out

• Norre por Tacubaya en Taxi

8882 DF

19

20 1283

0D

00 08

88 00

80 09 00

88 88

Sur por Tacabaya

21 1228

U

MM

out a sur por Tacubaya

0000174

JFK #056

CoPY 10f7

SECRET

---

## Page 25

14-00000

14-00000

COME HISTORICA REMEN PROGRALEARET

"RELEASE IN FULL

1000

27 September 1963, Sovict Embassy Chancery 15-61-55

Item 295, page 3

At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet Embassy Chancery

the Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia DURAN. He asks

DURAN if the american has been there.

DURAN:

Yes, he is still here.

SOVIET :

DURAN:

SOVIET:

DURAN:

SOVIET:

DURAN:

SOVIET:

DURAN:

answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.

That accordingly these transactions take 4 or 5 months but

without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request

and even then, they could not issue the, asa here (in Mexico

City) without asking Washington.

incomingly this man

(the American),

"showed him a let

g which he (the

American) is a member of an organi

a in favor of Cuba

and said that the Cubans could

We him the visa without

the Russian visa and now the

"doesn't know what to do

with him, because he has to

bfor the answer from

Washington.

..with them also, becaus

problem with him (the Anerican)

is that he doesn't k

sone in Cuba

and in that case it

is very difficult

him a visa, because he was

thinking of proce

his visa, because he knew it was

going to take

time waiting for the Russian visa in

Cuba, and th

to the USSR.

.. that the

as that if his (the American) wife were

now in Wash

gion (and) going to receive the visa right now

or the permission from the USSR to return to her country, (if)

she is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having

this visa, she can communicate to whatever place, this

permission, for example, here or in any other place (he) can

receive it, but right now they do not have them.

•certainly and neither can (the Cubans) give him a lette

They can only give the visa according to instructions.

Then that is what she will put on his application.

Neither can I give him any letter of recommendation because

I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

It was no bother, thank you very much..

C000175

SECRET

JFK#Ö56

Copy lof?

---

## Page 26

14-00000

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Consulate 15-60-55

Item 74, page 2

An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet Embassy

Consulate at 1037 hours and asks for the Consul. He is told that

the Consul is not there. The unidentified man asked what is needed

to get visas to go to Odessa.. He is told to call back at 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

At 1235 hours a man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) from inside the

Soviet Embassy Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial

America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the

telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN ROMAN.

ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Embassy and they need to

know what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessas

Soviets will also need copies of the passenger man int

(One concludes that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN

opping representatives

for the boat "KALONIA", and needed rout

information.

a call was made to the first listing

Soviet Embassy in the

Mexican telephone directory (which

They got the phone number

causulate and the address.

out to be the Military Attache).

making a call to the Congr

until 1130 hours, ALAR

learning that it would not be open

it to the address to get the needed

information.)

• Item 395, pages 7 and 8

Just after 1600 hours, the Soviet Consulate received a call from the

Cuban Consulate (Sylvia DURAN) who said she had there a U.S. citizen

who had requested a transit visa to Cuba because he is going to the

USSR. DURAN wants to know with whom he spoke at the Soviet Embassy

because she sent him over to them telling him that if the Soviets

approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything

more, advising the (Department of) Immigration in Cuba. She wants

to know with whom he spoke because he says that he doesn't know

either with what person and who told him that certainly there would

be no problem. The Soviet asks DURAN to wait a minute.

Atter a

short wait DURAN explains the same thing to another Soviet. This

Soviet tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her name and

someone will return the call.

DURAN gives her name and telephone

number 11-28-47 then says as a personal thing,

she has moved and

has not advised them of a change of address so will not receive their

Bulletin and can give it to them now. The Soviet asks her to call

KOUKHARENKO in order to change that address and asks for the name

of the (Cuban) Cultural Attache. DURAN says it is Teresa PROENZA

whose number is 14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her.

6000176

2

---

## Page 27

14-00000

ESSAGE

TIBUSTE

BOUTING

io.

• DIRECTOR

ROM. & MEXICO CITY.!

•CTIONS WH 8

i FO. + Cl, Cl/OPS, C1/IC 2, Fl, SR 7, RF, VR

XX

CA COETA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

SECRET

HI ON 0N36017

age 91079432

MIR CITE MEXI 6453

LOT PROVE

DO ACC LIENVOY I OCT 63, AMERICAN MALE WHO SPOKE ARIKEN RUSSIAN

WIS NA

EE OSWALD (PHONETIC)., STATED HE

AT,

SOVEMR ON ?8

CERT WHEN SPOKE WITH CONSUL WHOM HE RELIEVED REX

VASTIKA".. SUJ

VALERIY VLADIMIDOVICH

ASKED SOV GUARD IVAN DRYEDKON WHO

IF THEPE

ANUTHING NEW RE TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON. ORYEDKOV

SCHECKING SAID

MỌT HING RECEIVED YET, BUT REQUEST HAD FEN

SET

HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS PE AMERI

ATERING SONERS NOIS

WHUPS, LEA'ING 1O?

ON

& OCT. APPAR

35;

ATHELTIC BUILD,

TIPCA S FEET, RECEDINS HAIRLINE

ING TOP. WORE KHAKIS

AND SOPHT SHIRT. SOURCE LIEM

3. NO LOCAL DISSE!.

• CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON...

1, 6 APR

1976

ELABINDET CL BY S/ZZOS

1:200-5-4-1

Hest 6534, 15 0ct.

• Requated pouch plat camell,

Pór. FOlA Review on APR 1976

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PECHICITED

101-289248

1Qit63

Copy No.

000017

1971

5FK#056

---

## Page 28

14-00000

ORIG.:

Exta:

, DISTR.:

- ENDILLINGER

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 8 OCT 1963

FILE:

Conmo: Chrono;

-Sor Contacts 30 3-10-8

SECRET

CLASGIFICATION

INITIALS

DIO.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY.

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INITIALS

DIR

INFO.

CITE

MEX

6200

NUNDER

ICIMPROVE

ACC RENVOY OCT 63, AMERICAN MALE WHO SPOKE EROKEN RUSSIAN SAID HIS

NAME LIFE OSWALD (PHONETIC), STATED BE AT SOVEME

ON 28 SEPT WHEY SPOKE WITH

CONSUL, WHOM HE HOTTEVED BE VALERIY VLADIMEROVICI KOSTIKOV. SUBJ ASKED SOV*

CHARD IVAN OBYEDKOY WEO ANSWERED,. IF THERE ANYTHIN

RE TELEGRAM. TO

WASHINGTON. OVEROY UPON CHECKING SAID NONS

SOLVED SET BUT MUQUESE

HAD BEIN SENT

20 HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEAR

MERICAN ENTERING SOVEMB 1216 HOURS,

LEAVINO 1222 ON I OCT.

AGE 35, ATHLETIC BUILD, CIRCA 6 FEET, RECEDING

ORS KHANTS AND SPORT SHIRT. SOURCES. LIFTY.

HATRENE, BALDING

3O NO LOCAL

DUP OF

5..

enginated. by.

• 1. A. BIGGENETER (P)

wife EF Herb WAnELL

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CLASSIPICATION

OUTGOING

WCCUTT IS

RELEASING OFFICER

0000178

---

## Page 29

14-00000

UNIT:

EXr i

DATE :

BUSTOS: Jpm

HU/3/Mexico

5940

10 Oct 1962

CLASSIEED MISSAGE

D INDEX

O NO INDEX

46 SECREt

D FILE IN CS FILE NO

2

"то:

MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

€S COPVA:

CONF :WH 8

INFO ACDP, CI, C1/OPS,

12-6?.

ROUTING

DEFERRES: CEN

ROUTINE

TO

MEXI

RET

FIS SR 7, RF, VR

IN ETA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL CITE DIR

AXI 6453 (IN 36017)*

74830

for FOIA Review on

LEE OSWALD WEO CALLED SOVENB I OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL

LES: HENRY OSHALD (201-289248) BORN 18 OCT 1939, NEW

PRURANS,

LOUISIANA, FORMER BADAR, OPERATOR IN UNITED STATE

NES

WHO DETECTAY TO ESSE IN OCT 1959. OSWALD IS

FEET TEN

INCHES, ONE HUNDRED SIXTY, FIVE POUNDS,

BROWN WAVY HAIR,

BLUE BYES

43 ON 31 ОСТ 1959 3 АТТВА

STATES CITTZENSHIP TO THE

INDICATING HS HAD APPLIS

• RENOUNCE HIS UNITED

STATES EMB IN MOSCOW,

• SOVIET CITIZENSHIP. ON 13 FEB

POSTUARKED MINSE ON FIVE FSB 1961 IN WHICH SUBT INDICATED

HE DESIRED RETURN OF BIS US PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN TO USA

IF "HE COULD COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE DROPPING

N

OF ANY LEGAI, PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME " ON & JULY ON HIS OWN

ELRIMPDET CL BY 0/220

CONDUCTED ON.

CLASSIFICATION EXPAY T9T

INITIATIVS I APPRARED AT TAS SUS WITH UIS WIFE TO SEE AROU

201-289248

HIS RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT. ES ACTUALLY HAD NEVER

APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATION AJ 1O IRCT63

COORDINATING OFFIGERS

HeE Pa mon

(CONTINUED)

FIORIT

lassificati

AUTHEN

HENTCEATING

AREPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

CS COPY:

0000179

3.0F71

---

## Page 30

14-00000

ORIGi:

UNITE

EXT 7:

DATE :

то]

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF g

INFO

TO:

A CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• INDEX

• NO INDEX

D'FILE IN CS FILE NO. SI

So senatized rite crA

Nimber

For sterile copy of this document,

ROUTING.

DEFERRED'T

ROUTINE

•PAGE THO

To

INFO

CITE DIR

THAT TINS HAD BEEN TO BRUIN EN OSSE AND TOR

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME OF HIS REC

00-221

THIS LA

APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO OSWARD, CONTAINE

IT TO SOVIET

CITIZENSHIP.

OSWALD STATED THAT HAD

PLOTED SINCE

13 JAN 1960 IN BELORUSSIAN RADIO

FACTORY IN MINSK

WHERE, WORKED AS METAL WORKER

LARCH SHOP. OSVAID WAS

MARRIED ON 30 APRIZ: 1961

IVA NEROLAEVVA PUSAROVA A

DENTAL, TECENICIAN BOR

028 1941 USSR:

NO aDQS TRACES

HE ATTENPIED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SEX

COULD APPEAR AT EUS FOR VISA INTERVIEN.

HIS AMSRICAN POT

WAS RETURNED TO HIM. US EMS MOSCOY STATED TWENTY MONTES

OF REALITISS OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY BAD NATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD.

3. LATEST HDQS INTO HAS ODACID REPOST DATED' MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERNINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITEZEN 'ÄND

FOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFS HAVS EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT. STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILI

TO USA.

NS IÓN

RELEASINO OFFICER

NOF TI REPRODUCTION.

( CONTINUED)

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CROUP 1

acluded lom automa

SETT

omestosina an

• OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE:_ /PROMIBITED

0000180

AUTENTEEATIME

Copy No

---

## Page 31

14-00000

ORIG

UNIT.:

.EXT

DATE :'

•TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

"INFO!

TƠ

CLASSIED MISSAGE

L7 INDEX

O NO INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PAGE THREE

INFO

CITE DIR°

:74830

STATION SHOULD PASS INFO REF AND PARA ONE TO

TPELIDE, ODENVY, ODDATA, AND ODURGE LOCAINY.

INED FARAS,

THO AND THRES ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.

REE AND POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

TO HOOS OF ODENTY, ODACID, ODOATE, AND ODURGE.

PLS KEEP

HIDOS ADVISED ON WHY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE

TIFICATION

OF. OSWALD.

done

'per

DiR

74673

WH. CHT:

HYD OF MESSAGE

*According to LIENVOY 1 Oct

spoke broken Russian said

•(phonetic) stated he

spoke with Consul

to Washington.

American male wro

name Lee Oswald

So Bab on

28 Sept when

scussed sending a telegin i

Dissenination had been bade.

T.

CARAVESSINES

ADDP

RELEASINd OFFICER

SR/CI/A/Roll (1n draft)

C1/uaison/Roman (1n draft)

201-289248

EX/SPG/Egerter (1n drafts)

C/wa/3

WH/COPS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

COCC BING

SECRET

ten tomatic

Includer tary and

CHHD

AUTHENTICATING

declassification

OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DELICE IS PROHIBITED BE

Copy No.

CC00181

5:0F71

---

## Page 32

14-00000

LJ. UNCLASS! FIED

ERNAL

SE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON MENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

TON Enor designation, root fombar, Land

building)

DAD DATE

RECEIVED

SECRET

EXTENSION

NO.

DIR. 74830

'-5945

• DATE

ĐCT 1 1 1963

•OFFICER'S

COMMENTS (Number ooch comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw o line acioss column aflor each commont.!

2.

SCOTT

WHIE

We should dals,

Ha for

holi

manale

Paul NEW p.

" ScoTT ST

5.

15.

1-8573

ECRE

FORM

• 610 USE PREVIOUS

3-62

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL O

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

•_ UNCLASSIFIED

0000182

605. 71

---

## Page 33

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION:

INFO:

DEFERRED®

PRIORITY

DATE:

11 OCT 63

FILE:

NITIALS

CLASSIFICATIO CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM !

OTG

RELEASE IN FULL

1022292

1999г

6453ª

5.0-8-10.6

EE OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVEMB 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL •

DIR 14830

24 Fried

NEW ORLEANS,

OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN

BLUE EYES.

SVE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAIR,

STATES CITIZENSHIP TO THE UNITEU STATES

31 OCT 1959 HE ATTEMPTED TO RENOUNCE HOSCUNITED

INDICATING

HE HAD APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP•

ON 13 FEB

THE US EMB. MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

ye aren

POSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATED

"HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US-PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN. TO USA IF "WE

COULD: COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE DROPPIN

F• ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME." TON & JUL)

Ng" OWN

INITIATIVE HE APPEARED AT -THE EMB WITH HIS. WIF

ABOUT HIS

RETURN TO STATES. • SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACTUA

NEVER APPLIED

FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLIC

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN USSR AND

EMPORARY EXTENSION

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME

REQUEST.

'ACCORDING TO OSWALD,

CITIZENSHIP"-"OSWALD STATED THAT

EN EMPLOYED SINCE:

13 JAN 1960 IN BELORUSSIAN RAD

TV. FACTORY. IN MINSK

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER

EARCH SHOP.

OSWALD WAS

DUP OF

MARRIED ON 30-APRIL 1951 TO MA

NIKOLAEVNA

PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN

17. JULY 1941 USSR.

NO HDQS TRACES.

1-21

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN. HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

COULD APPEAR-AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW.

HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO HIM. ÷ US EMB MOSCOW

STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD•

LATEST HDQS INFO. WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

INFO PARAS

I CONT PAGE-TWO)

CESSiFICATION

INCOMING

0000183

70F71

---

## Page 34

14-00000

i8.4%

F22:

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

OTG

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

VITIALS

TNITIALS

INFO

INCOMING NUMBER

CITE

PAGE TWO DIR 74830--IN• 5945

HUMBER

..*=5;

REF AND POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

AND ODURGE.

HDOS ADVISED ENARY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION

OF OSWALD•

-END. - OF

- MSG.

REPRODUCTION

11/16027

CAESATON

INCOMING

0000184

---

## Page 35

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

3730

• ROUTING

TO

I DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO GITY

ACTION, WH8

A3 COPy

INFO

ADDP, GI, Cl/OPS, GI/SP, FI, SR 7, RF, VR

en me a 35 lov

HiP CITE: MEXI 6534

LEI PROVE

FIF DIR

74935

-LE POUCH PHOTO OSWALD

RODUCTION PRON

150C 63 IN 4035%

C/S COMMENT: *ATTEMPTS CE LEE OSWALD' AND WIFE TO REENTER U.S.

0000185

Document Number

8-4

i FOIA Roviout on. APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION AEVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON

1 6 APR 1916

E ZIMPDET CL BY O/ 2208

D: 200.5-41

(4)

63 Casy

GoF 11

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

201-289.248

Copy is.

---

## Page 36

14-00000

PRIG.:

"T.i

"STR.:

DIN

•SECESTETNER

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

15 OCT 1963

- Commo; Chrono;

Lee Henry Osward

(New P")

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

DTC.

NUMBER

INITIALS

INFO,

CITE MEXI

ICIMPROVE

RER, DIR 74830

PIS POUCH PHOTO OSWALD.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN' FULL

1999

REPRODUCTION PROHBITED

Documbeisil Alerber

1373=489

SAMEAS

HOY 1978

8-4

6534

NUMBER

GFCEST ETNER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000186

WCCURTIS

RELEASING OFFICER

1OSt

71

---

## Page 37

14-00000

51115

10/0CH

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

26 Datober 1005

: The Mabassador

2501

Tilnston 11. Jects

34275 Ambassodor Netilial by COs

To set statia sortal Feast

teredned tent OWIND bad been it the Seriot Saczary on 25 septoaber 1555 and

Ded saltad sita talent Viadiulriroca ISTANTl, l mubar ci te Cornuier

Taction, in onic to lo 1I the borat increst bod TeCOlTEd a FOpLY IT

Kaairagten ceneraig his roquest. he bars no clart

1020904100 i1t2

IBbard to this soquoti.

2. Cur leadatera bas Infared 35 t2

INitatara, i farmer rular operator in tho

SALD aDOre 10 DIOSIbLY

- 1959 17 80u 0rle830,

Marina Corpo Uho defceter

to tha sariot liter 1a Detober 1959

Information

011

10 recetred.

Wins natter

$6531

L50.

CC

C.

198C185E7

ENGE TOO LAMBS

3h M

Pilt TD. (2.3.5

ENOAT ZEAT. CORE

CASLE ICEM (DI)

N89 (8}

15oa Tuti

Crig - Tro inbossador

Tro inton

Conscio ion Political Atarirs

- Java? Attacoo

- Lee Henry OSWAÜD P-

=50-2-4-5

- Liaison with Legal Attache

Finison with Noval Attache

Document Number S

for FOlA Review on APR 1976

RECORD COPY

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON..

1 6 ANK

ELA BIMPDET CL BY 612209

7x-1.919

16 OCT. 63

501-28924

to menorandun to Legal Attache on &

Actober 1063:

however, note nenorandum

to US Ambassador (dated 16 October)

also included Legal Attache in distri-

bution.

0000187

---

## Page 38

14-00000

ALLED MESSAGE ding notion 1ui

authorse- DE SENSITIZE

10

• DIRECTOR

signed:

THOMA S. MEXICO CITY

ES COPY!

R.0. #1 - Unit _OT/Rotis

ACTION: C/MMA 5 (COPY ISSUED TO DCI, 1810 22. NOV BP

DOP NOTIFIED AND

Note:

If dostruction,

cite

COPY SLOTTED AT 1800,

INFO : DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5,

22 NOY SpFeasOns and coordinate

annropriato.

D/OS 2, VF

XX

SETTE

222229Z

IMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7014

22 Ko/ 63 IN G 6-7.811

REF:

A. UMEXI 6453 (IN3 6017)"

B. DIR 74830÷

C. 1, MEXI 6537 (IN 40357) **

1o ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD AT

STATIO

COARDING

PRESIDENT KENNEDY ASSASSINATION, ONE LEE HO

AGE 24

HAS BEEN ARRESTED IN DALLAS POSSIBLY

SANECTION

ASSASSINATION

OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

2.

DIRECT HQS ATTENTiO

3. • REQUEST PRIORITY

PHOTO

OSWALD SO THAT STATION

CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIEMPIY COVERAGE FOR IDEN. EORWARDING

SOOVEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT WHO COULD

EE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD. CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

GEOFET

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

"Re conster Higao Lorra

CONDUSE CON TRY 9T

EL UNDET CL BY C1 2205)

03 GORY

201289248

22 Nor'6.3

D: 200-5-41:

Documeit Number. Ba- 12

for FOlA Roviciv on APR 1976

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0000188

12.0÷71

---

## Page 39

14-00000

ORIG: GE. GESTEINER

'- f

/ EXT.:.

DISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

COMMO

XXX CHRONO (DUMMY)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

FILE:

22 NOVEMBER 1963

P-8593

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

• SNITIALE

DTO.

NUMBEN

INITIALS

TO

• IMMEDIATE DIR •

INFO.

CITE MEXI

801&

RYBAT

REE

WANT MEXI 6453

B. : DIR 74830

C. MEXI 6534

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

1. ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD AT

SION REGARDING

PRESIDENT KENNEDY ASSASSINATION ONES

HAS BEEI

RRESTED IN. DALLAS POSSI

OF, PRESIDENT KENNEDY

HOSWALD AGE 24

CONNECTION ASSASSINATION

2. DIRECT HOS ATTENT

REFS.

3.

REQUEST PRIORIT

BOUCH PHOTO OSWALD SO THAT STATION

"CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIEMPTY COVERAGE FORIDEN. FORWARDING

SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR IO SOVEMB 28 OCT WHO COULD

BE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD.

END OF MSG

29-12

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000189

13.0= 2)

---

## Page 40

14-00000

wP19:

Whitten

CLASSIEED MESSAGE

ROUTIN

C/WH! 3

D INDEX

EXT

561 3

D.NO INDEX

DATE :

"22 iOvanner 1963 C FILE IN CS FILE NO.

70

FROM:

MEXICO CITY

DIRECTOR

DOC, MICRO-SER

DEC 4. 19/4

GS CO EMICROFILMED

22 Noy G3

40.2

CONF:

C/WH 5

DEFERRED GETT

ROUTINE

IÑFO :

DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/05 2, VR

I MEDIATE: MEXI

INFO

CIA SPECIAL COLAECTIONS 4 8 0.2

RELEASE A

FULL

RE MEXI 7024, Saver Actr

THANKS,

TETS CONMECTTON WAS ALSO NOTED HERE.

4. 2.

TRUST YOU WILL BE ABLE USE ALL YOUR FACILINTES TO FOLION AND REBORT

SOVIST EASY REACTION LURING THESE HOURS. PISASE CARLS

L, SUMMARIES.

ENDOR MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT * (IN 66781)

pips

D

•200 - 5541

Document Number - 8

for FOlA Review ori

APR: 1976

LICER. STAMP

no poonale

signed:

Hastr

R.0. 11 = Unst CEDRS

Note:

If destruction.

cite

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriato.

8

201-289248

200. 5-Ci

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1978

ELEZMPOET CL BY 0 1 22 08

GS COPY.

C22 NON63

THOMAS H. KARAMESSINES

ADDP

RELEASING

JOIN N.

WETTIE

COOROINATING OFFICERS

C/wE 3

Excluded from

dow

ng and

• AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OFFER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2089

0000190

14.0021

---

## Page 41

14-00000

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

23 NOV 63

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

NITIALS

ROUTINE

TO

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XXXXIMMEDIATE

DỊG

INCOMING RUNNER

•INITIALS

PRQ

INFO

28. 2223402

IMMEDIATE MEXI

RYBAT •

66G3

CITE

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

DIR 84802

VREF. MEXI 97014*

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

1. THANKS• THIS CONNECTION WAS ALSO NOTED HERE..

2. TRUST YOU WILL BE ABLE USE ALL YOUR FACILITIES

SabLow AND

REPORT SOVIET EMBASSY ACTIVITY AND REACTION

PLEASE,

SE, CABLE FULL SUMARLES

REPRODICTON PHONES HOUS

DUP

26-8

23/00227

SCRET

CLASSIFiCATION

INCOMING

0000191

150t 2.1

---

## Page 42

14-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

... ."

RELEASE IN FULL

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM & MEXICO CITY

2

3

CS COPY:

ACTIONs

WH 8 MR WHITTEN, WH & NIGHT SECURITY OFFICER NOTIFTED AND COPY SLOTTED AT

2015,

22 NOV BP)

INFO DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, CI, C1/OPS, C//IC 2, FI, SR 7, SAS 8, OS 2; VR

SECRET 2308532

IMMEDIATE DIE CITE/MEXI THIS 201-289248

REF: MEXI 7014 (IN 66781)

MEXI STATION HAS PHOTOS SAME

TYPE WHO IS POSSIBLY OSVALD ENTERIA

OCTOBER.

SEARCHING FOR POSSIBI

CUBAN

DENTIFIED AMERICAN

LEAN EMBASSY ON 15

PHOTO-DOCUMENTED ENTRY.

EMBASSY OTHER DAYS

2.

ALSO ATTEMPTING ES

ABLISH OSWALD ENTRY AND DEPARIURE.

22N0: 63 IN 66 8.46

MEXI.

C/S ,Comment: *Request priority pouch photo Oswald so that Station can check au

receu: coverage for identity.. Forwarding soonest copies of only visitos to sovErib,

23: Ort. who could be identical with Oswald.

1

0000192

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ONI 6 APP 1075

ELEZMODET CL BY 012208

D: 200-5-41

Document ivumbe

2709-10

Hor FOlA Review on AFR 1976

66 8077

6S COPY:

22.11206.3

701-284248

CrAn

гардейі

22 AbU 63

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

160F71

---

## Page 43

14-00000

• ORIG :

JOHN M.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

WHITTEN

UNIT :

C/WH/3

D'INDEX

EXT

5613

2

?Bo SECRET

O NO INDEX

DATE :

22. NOY. 63

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROUTING

TO . : MEXICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF:

WH 8

GS COPI

Nor. 23

INFO :

01 36:63

23 N0w:63

DEFERREDSECT.

ROUTINE

DCI,

D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, CL, CI/OPS, C1/IC 2, FI, SR 7, SAS 8,

OS 2, VR

TO

(PRTX) MSXI

INFO

late abang

22 Norto. 23 Nor

84821

RE MEXI 7019 (IN 66846) #

SEND STAFFER TY ITE ALL PHOTOS OSWAS

AVAILABLE FLIGHT. CALL MR. WHITTE

HQS. ON NEXT

9S852-6827 ON ARRIVAL

END OF

C/S Comment: *Reference atta

Document Numbar

for FOlA Review op

51

-18

APR 1976

0: 200-5-41

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON

1 6 APR 197€

E 3 DET CL BY B12.208

JOHN M. WHITTEN by direction

CS. COPYi

THOMAS KARAMESSINES ADEBIDINATING OFFICERS

kacluded from automa ic

SECRET

downgrading and

•deciassincation

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

0000193

201-289248

23 Nei63

AUTHENTICATING

Copy No..:

170F7)

---

## Page 44

14-00000

GRIG BIRCH O'NEAL

UHIT :

C/CI/SIC

DATE :

5367

_23 NOV 63

1.1

TET

2

3

•TO

: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFiCI/SI

INFO : DCI, D/DCI, DDP; ADDP

2, VR

CS. COPY

2?

CL/OPS, C1/10:2, FI, SR 7, WH 7,

ROU!!?

TO

IMMEDIATE MEXI

REF: MEXI 6453 (IN 36027)4

IMMEDLATE

INFO

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 4 8 8 6

RELEASE IN FULL

IMPORTANT YOU REVIEW ALL LINVOY TAPES AND

TRANSCRIPTS SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL M

IAL

6. 2E2

POSSIBLY PERTINENT TO SUBJECT REF

99093

0209020

DISPATCH SOONEST BY SPECIAL COURT

3AE 29

19222

TAFFER IF

NECKSSANT FULL TRANSCRIPTS AND SE

AL TAPES IF

AVAILABLE ALL PERTINENT MATE?

ARE ORIGINAL TAPES

ABLE?

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTEO ON 1'6 APR 1975

E/821MPDET CL BY 0 / 2208

END OF MESSAGE

CS Comment:

*Reported that on I October 63, an American male who said

bis name wag Lee Oswald was at the Soviet Embaggy in Mexico City.

Document Number 40-54!

201-289248:

D: 200-5-41

for FOIA Review ori

APR 1976

200-5-41

23N0U63

ES. COPYA

Miami

RELEASING OFFICER.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

Excludes lem

#automatic

BECHET

derlassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

JOAN C. WHITTEN

WH/3

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

• Copy No.

0000194

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency.

Date: 2/2003

7809 719

---

## Page 45

14-00000

DISTR:

TON!

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

scape

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DTG

INITIALS

Pio

INFO

L2317167

DATE:

23. NOV

63

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

lAMEDIATE

INCOMING HUMUER

TO

6680

CITE

IMMEDIATE MEXI

REF%. MEXI 6453

"DIR QUISL

IMPORTANI. YOU REVIEW ALL LIENVOY TAPES AND TRANSCRIPTS

SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL MATERIAL POSSIBLY

TINENT

TO SUBJECT REF•.....

20 DISPATCH SOONEST BY SPITAL COURIERS

IF

NESESSARY FULL TRANSCRIPTS-AND ORIGINAL TA

AVAILABLE ALL PERTINENT MATERIAL.

ARE ORIGINAL TAPES AVAILAR

MESSAGE

GIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DUP

40-541

CHRONO DUMMY

23/18017

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000195

190F71

---

## Page 46

14-00000

bein :

UNIT

EXT

CATE

JOAT M. WHITIEN

C/V3 3

Пі :N034

5613

O NO INDEX

_23_MOVEMBER 1963 O FILE IN CS FLE NO

3 !

TO

: MEXICO CITY

| 23 Mov 60

17 292

FROM: DIRECTOR

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

CONF:

C/WH 5

INFO:

STO CE

DEFERACO

ROUTINE

DCI, D/DCT, DDP; ADDP, C/Cr, C/F| 2; C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2,

TO

IMMEDIATE MEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

84888

I ODEVI SAYS THAT PROTOS DE MAN SI

SoY

ALBASSY

DILLAS WERE NOT OF LEE OSWALD. PRESUME MEXI HAS DOURIER

PHOTOS AND IS ALSO CHECKING ALI FERINUNT OTHER PHOTOS

USHAID.

I SENT TO

ED DATES OF THESE

POSSTELE SEOTS OF

RAAs

END OF MESSAGE

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEG +

19/4

MICROFILMED

Document Number

9-38

3

RECORDS OFFICER STAUP

he following ac

autherized:

for EOlA Review on APR 1976

Signed:

R.0. #1 - Uo1t CIODS

If destruction,

cite

Note:

reasons and coordinate

1f appropriate.

D: 200-5-41

CLASSIFICATION REVISW

CONDUGTED ON! E APR

1978

ELZ@HIPDET CL BY 0 / 2208

COPT

201-289248

200541

23720U63

W

WILIKAN

HOOD

Via/COPS

RELENSING OFFICER

0000196

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

¡Excludes tremattomatic

SIGHIN

"nowns who

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

- C/WE 3

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No..

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

•Date: 312003

20 697!

---

## Page 47

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

41

I DIRECTOR

•ROM

CS COPY

3

61

MEXICO ÇITY

iCTION.

"IFO

C/M 5 (MR. WHITTEN, WH, NOTIFIED AND COPY. SLOTTED AT 1255 34 NOV 63 LNS)

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/C\, C/FI Z, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2,

231659L

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7023

23 Now 63 14 67 1 08.

LIENVOY

CALESME CIA SPECTAN COLLECTIONS

CABLES.

1. ON 28. SEP 63 SILVIA

DURAN CUBAN EMB. CALLEDRSREASE IN FULL

CONSUL

SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB AND WISH

SPEAX WITH CONSUL.

UNIDEN. NORT HAMERICAN TOLD SOV. CONSUL QUOTE

"I WAS IN

YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO. YOUR CONSUL.. I WAS. JUST NOW AT

YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOX MY ADDRESS." SOV CONSUL SAYS "I

THAT" •

UNIDEN NORT HAMERICAN SPEAKS RUSSIAN * I DID NOT

KNOW

I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMB TO ASK THEM FOR MY

1 ADDRE

HAVE IT"• SOU CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU COME AGA

ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM CUBAA

NORTHAMERICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

UNIDEN NORT HAMERICAN SPOKE TERRI

CAUSE THEY

LEAVE

YOUR

UNIDEN

WAY.". MONITOR NOTES

IRDLY RECOGNIZABLE

• RUSSIAN®

2.

IN VIE

OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED

ON 1 OCT

EL RIMADET CL BY 0 / 22208

for FOIA Review oit 1 APR: 1976

LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28 SEP, SUBJECT PARA ONE PROBABLY

CONDUCTED ON

A9 1 6 APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

Document Number

01-545

OSWALD. STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE ERASED. PRIOR

RECEIPT SECOND CALL•

IN (678)

3. PARA THREE MEXI 7014 DATE SHOULD BE ONE OCT 63.

SAME

SUBJECT VISITED SOVEMBA OCT BUI NOT RECORDER LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

201-287248

MAXING EVERY EFFORT DEFE FARE OSALS ACTIVITIES MEXZCO. eU 63

PieRe 41

SECRET

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

Approved for Releas® 000197

by the Central Intelligence Agency:

Date: 2/2003

21 0971

Lett

---

## Page 48

14-00000

ORIG.:

R. B. RIGGS

EXT.:

* CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

CLASSIE$999 SAGE

(7)

DISTR.:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XX

IMMEDIATE

•INITIALS

DTO.

INITIALS

TO

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

and 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

P-8593

Silvia DURAN P-

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO,

LIENVOY

DUP oF

CITE MEXI 79727

49-515

1. ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA DURAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SOV CONSUL

SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB AND WISH

SPEAK WITH CONSUL. UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN TOY

QUOTE 'I WAS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO YOUR

CONSUL

UL..

I WAS

JUST NOW AT YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOK MX

PRESS,"..SOV CONSUL

SAYS "I KNOW THAT." UNIDEN NORTH

DID NOT KNOW IT THEN. IWENT

MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THE!

AN SPEAKS RUSSIAN "I

CUBAN EMB TO ASK. THEM FOR

SOV CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU

COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM

CUBAN EMB." UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

RIGHT AWAY," MONITOR NOTES UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPOKE

TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE RUSSIAN.

2. IN VIEW OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON

1 OCT LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28 SEP¿ SUBJECT PARA ONE

PROBABLY OSWALD. SIATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE

ERASAX

COORDINATING OFFICERS

'AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

GECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000198

20F7)

---

## Page 49

14-00000

XT.:

DISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

Page 2.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFICATION

FINITIALE

INITIALS

DTO.

TO

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INFO.

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL.

•CITE

NUMBER

REPEAT ONE

3. PARA THREE MEXI 7011 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECT

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCT. BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

RBR

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SHORET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

WCC

RELEASING OFFICER

0000199

23. 05.71

---

## Page 50

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

-SECRET

• DIRECTOR

ROM. • MEXICO CITI

DOC: MICRO. SER

DEC 4 1974

MICROFILMED

ROUTING

CS COEVIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

ICTIONI C/SR 5.

RELEASE IN FULL

MR. WHITTEN, WH AND MR. BAGLEY, SR NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1605

23 NOV 63 WB

IºO • DCI,. D/DCI, DOP, ADDP,

EX, C/C1/OPS, C/F1, C/WHi 2, D/05.2,. VR

ix

9043+2319117

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

IMMEDIATE DIR

CITE

23 800631467179

ROBAT REDWOOD

L CIMPROVE

Signed:

REF

A.

DIR

84837*

B... DIR 84885 *

R.D. #1 - Unit <ELDS

14.

Note:

If dectructIon, cha

C. DIR 84886÷

reasons and coo

11 appropriat

•1.. 'ARA L A REF A, STATION'S IMMEDIATE AD

CHECK INDICATES NO OTHERE XOST INOV TRA

LILYRIC REPORTING 6 TARU 19 NOV S

1.

•DAY. SNO LILYRIC REPORTINGS

EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE

SO LIKELY DEFINITIVE

SIDE MEXIS

MOST RECENT

IST IKOV AT

SOV EMB EVERY

AD

16-17 NOV.)

WILL GET REPORTING

ACTIVITIES 22 NOV. PLACING HIS

UNDER LIEMÉRACE SURVEIL

2. PARA 28 REF A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVEMS PERSONNEI

ACTIVITIES 17. NOV TO DATE:

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON

1 6 APR 1976

3. WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS A SASZIMPDET CL BY 012.203

4.. REF B, IMMEDIATE AND: PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS NO OTHER

ALFERIEV. TRAVEL. LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV AT ' SOVEMB 6

for. FOlA Review on

APR 1975

THRU 19 NOV. (NO LILYRIC COVERAGE 9=10 AND 16-17 NOV. )

5..

COVERING ALFERIEV ACTIVITIES SAME AS WITH KOSTIKOV. WILL

PLACE HIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP.

1: 200-5-4124

IS COPY

201-289248

+200-5-41-

B201-305052

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRRHIBITER

23228

Document Number

62

-24

Destassitied and Approved for Releas00 00200

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 7/2003

200F 21

---

## Page 51

14-00000

Nutibus

o1

this dos

-CLASSIFIED MESSAG

015 al

IN 67170 PAGE 2

6: OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S CONNECTION WITH SOU

AND CUBAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE. HOWEVER, STATION STAFF

COMBINE ALL AVAILABLE MATERIALS.

7. STEFPING UP RECEIPT ALL INCOMING MATERIALS COVERING SOVENE, •

4

TRYING GET LIFEAT COVERAGE OF SWITCHBOARD OF APT BUILDING WHERE

RESIDE WIN KAZANI SEY, SUSPECT X69 RESIDENT KONSTANTINOV AND SUSPECT

GRU SHCHUCHKIN.. HAVING LIPAWN REPORT MOVEMENTS SIDOROV AND .

MAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST SID.

INCOMING LIFEAT ON

KGB

KUZNET SOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP.

8.

PROBABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY TAPES ERASED.

6

HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES. LIENVOY CENTER. SEP CABLE

PROVIDES VERBAT IM TRANSCRIPTS.

C/S COMMENT: *Requested information

Kostikov.

IN PROHIBITED®

REPRODUCTION®

Valeriy Vladimirovich

0000201

GrOn

150F 21

---

## Page 52

14-00000

ORIG.:

FXT.:

OISTR.:

(44)

TO

ROS G.F. GESTETNER

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CHRONO (DUMMY

SHOUTT

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

XX

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

•INITIALO

DIO.

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE: <P-8593

KOSTIKOV P-

ALFERIEV P

NUMBER

INITIALO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

7028

CITE MEXI NUMDEA

RYBAT REDWOOD LCIMPROVE

REF:

A. DIR 84837

0 12 24

B. DIR 84885

C. DIR 84886

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

PARA LA REFA, STATION'S IMMEDIATE

IKELY

DEFINITIVE CHECK INDICATES NO OTHER K

TRAVEL OUTSIDE

MEXI, MOST RECENT LILYRIC REPOR

6 THRU 19 NOV SHOWS

KOSTIKOV AT SOV EMB EVERY DI

LILYRIC REPORTING 9-10

AND 16-17 NOV.) WILL GET

KOSTIKOY ACTIVITIES 22

TING EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE

PLACING HIM UNDER LIEMBRACE

SURVEILLANCE.

2. PARA 2B REE A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVEMB

PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES 17 NOV TO DATE..

3: WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENIS ASAP.

4.. REF B, IMMEDIATE AND PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS

NO OTHER ALFERIEV TRAVEL. LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV

AT SOVEMB 6 THRU 19 NOV COGNBINE FIERY ERAGE 9-10 AND 16-17 NOV.)

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000202

20 of 71

---

## Page 53

14-00000

The Attached document page

0000276

is a replacement page for 0000203.

0000203 is not to be destroyed

Or

taken out of the original package

that it is included in.

Document

0000276 may be inserted in front

of document

0000203.

DISTR.:

DATE:

FILE:

TO

Page 2.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERA:

IMA

NUMBER

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

7024

NUMBER

5. COVERING ALFERIEV ACTIVITIES SAME AS WITH KOSTIKOV.

WILL PLACE HIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP.

6. OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S CONNECTION

WITH SOV AND CUBAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE.

HOWEVER,

STATION STAFF COMBING ALL AVAILABLE MATER

7. STEPPING UP RECEIPI ALL INCOLINE MATERIALS COVERING

SOVEMB, TRYING GET LIFEAT

BRAGE OF SWITCHBOARD OF APT

BUILDING WHERE RESID

ZANTSEV, SUSPECT KGB RESIDENT

KONSTANTNOV AND SUSPECI GRU SHCHUCHKIN. HAVING LIPAWN REPORT

MOVEMENTS SIDOROV AND MAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST

SID. INCOMING LIFEAT ON KGB KUZNETSOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP.

8. PROBABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY TAPES

ERASED, HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES LIENVOY

CENTER. SEP CABLE PROVIDES VERBATIM TRANSCRIPTS.

END OF MSG

".??

AUTHENTiENING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSPIEAON

OUTGOING

0600276

RELEASING FFICER

---

## Page 54

14-00000

ORIE.:

EXT.:

DISTR.:

Page 2.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLISSIFIED MESSAGE

GEETAT

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALI

DIO.

INITIALO

DATE:

FILE:

TO

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INFO.

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL. *

CITE

NUATUER

REPEAT ONE

PARA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECT

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCI BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

MEXICO

4.

MAKING EVERY EFFORT DETERMINE OSWALDS AR

END OF MSG

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED NE

RBR

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000203

WCC

RELEASING OFFICER

200F71

---

## Page 55

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEER

ROUTING

DOC. MICRO. SEE

TO

• DIRECTOR

CS COPHI

DEC.4

1914

FROM

MEXICO CITY

MICROFILMED

ACTION:

(MR WHITTEN; WH, MR, BALLEY, SR, AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIÃO

INFO

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADD, C/CL, C/FI 2, C/SR 5 ELSASS STAPLES ZAF

XX

the follow'

ERE 232834}

autho set sai

IMMEDIATE DIR GLIE MEXI 7025

& LIENVOY

CONDUCTED ON.

CHASSIHATIOE ARE TOTE

Signed:

Starte

R.O: #1 - UnItCHES

,REE

DIR 84886 S22MPDET CL BY 0/3208

- 23H0763 IN 67 1 88

Note:

•If desiration.

nite

FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE.

reasons

and

coordinate

Pisas

SiSTL FRESASY

200..

ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LLENVOY REPORTED FOLE

11 appropriato.

"ENTRADA MF DEL

CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN. SU CONSULADO EST

UN

NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVO ALLI EN LA EMBAJADADA RUSA.

ESPERE UN MOMENTO.

MF'ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA IN

IN ALGUNA

PERSONA FUERA: Y COMENTA EN ESPANOL QUE LA PUSIE

* TELEFONO A

APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL 1A 12 99

LA LE DICE SOBRE. EL

CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO Y QUE LES

ABLAR.

HE HABLA RUSO.

HD LE HABLA EN INGLES. " SILVI

ASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU

SPEAK RUSSIANS®. "THEN WHY DONTYOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN

TAKES PHONE AND SAYS IN BORKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND

SPOKE TO YUOR CONSUL..

JUSI A MINUTE. " MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS

NORIHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN:

io: FOlA Roview on

APR 1976:

"PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN"• SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?"

Document Number

60.559

NORTH-

AMERICAN: "I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY TOOK MY

ADDRESS. " SOVIET: "I KNOW THAT. " NORTHAMERICANS "I DID NOT KNOW

D:200=5-41

201=289248

3201-740720

550

6S copyi

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

23.20463

бору No

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

0000204

28 0F 71

---

## Page 56

14-00000

2

CLASSIFIED' MESSAGE

IN

PAGE

I THEN.

I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK THEN FOR MY ADDRESS

ECAUSE THEY HAVE IT. " SOVIET:

"WHY DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LAAVE

OUR ADDRESS WITH US. IT IS NOT FAR FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY. "

ORTHAMERICAN: "WELL I'LL BE THERE RIGHT AWAY." DOUGLAS JO

EINGLASS NOTED NORIHAMERICAN SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE

USSIAN.

• ON ONE OCTOBER 1963 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET EMB AND SAID

HELLO THIS IS/LEE OSWALD SPEAKING.

I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST

•AIURDAY

AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID THAT THEY'D

END A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGION SO I WANTED TO FIND OUT IF YOU HAVE

INYTHING NEW? BUT I DONT REMEMBER THE NAME OF THAT CONSUL. *

¡OVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV: HE IS DARK. "

10: *YES.

MY. NANE IS OSWALD. SOVIET: "JUST A MINUTE'I'LL

'IND OUT.:

THEY SAY THAT -THEY HAVEN'T-RECEIVED ANYTHING

10g: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES THAY,

A

REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS B

ECEIVED AS YEI. "

10: "AND WHAT..?" SOVIET HANGS UP

DOUGLAS. do

DEINGLASS WHO-DI

LIPTIONS SAYS OSWALD IS

IDENTICAL WITH

PERSON PARA! ONE

AKING BROKEN RUSSIAN WHO CALLED

FROM CUBAN EMBASSY 28 SEPTEMBER TO SOVIET EMBASSY.

CS Corment:

-*Keglested Station review all LIENVOY (1) tapes and tranor:

since 28 Sept, to locate pertinent information on Oswald.

0000205

29 0F 71

---

## Page 57

14-00000

FONN

930- 130.

(14)

ORIG.:

R. B. RIGGS

EXY.:

DISTR.: • COMMO

•CHRONO (DUMMY)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IN'MEDIATE

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO,

DATE:

23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILES

P-8393

CLASSIFICATION

Silvia DURAN. P-

INITIALO

KOSTIKOV P-

NUMBEN

INCIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999ITE MEXI = 7025

UMDE

RYBAT LENVOY

DUP OT

60j-

REF: DIR 84886

1. FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE.

2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIENVOY REPORTED

•ME DEL CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE

ESTA UN NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVOL

RUSA, UD QUE ESFERE UN MOMEN

INGLES CON ALGUNA PERSO

NIRADA

SU CONSULADO

EN LA EMBAJADADA

ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA

PERA Y COMENTA EN ESPAÑOL QUE

LA PUSIERON TELEFONO A APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL

1 $ 12 99, SILVIA LE DICE SOBRE EL CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO Y

QUE LES VA A HABLAR, HF HABLA RUSO, HD LE HABLA EN INGLES. "

SILVIA DURAN ASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU SPEAK RUSSIAN?" THEN

"WHY DONT YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN TAKES PHONE AND

SAYS IN BROKEN RUSSIAN. "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND SPOKE TO YOUR

CONSUL. " MAN IN SOV EMB "JUSI A MINUTE," MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS

NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN:

COORDINKTING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

pi. i!:

lines

0000206

CLASSIFICATION

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

5

30 0F 7!

---

## Page 58

14-00000

(14)

DRiG.:

"ISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

PAGE 2.

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DYG.

DEFERRED

NUMBEn

NITIAL"

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

CITE

7025

"PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN''. SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?"!

NORTHAMERICAN: "I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY

TOOK MY ADDRESS." SOVIEI: "INKX KNOW THAT." NORTHAMERICAN:

"I DID NOT KNOW IT THEN, I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK

THEM FOR MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THEY HAVE IT." SOVIET

DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WIT

IS NOT

FAR FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY. " NORTHAMERI

WELLILL BE

THERE RIGHT AWAY." DOUGLAS J. FEINGLA

CED NORTHAMERICAN

SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZA

ISSIAN®

•3. ON ONE OCIOBER 1963

JOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET

EMB AND SAID "HELLO THIS IS LEE OSWALD SPEAKING, I WAS AT YOUR

PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID

THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND

OUT IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING NEW? BUT IDONT REMEMBER THE NAME

OF THAI CONSUL. " SOVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV:

HE IS DARK," MO: "YES. MY NAME IS OSWALD." SOVIET: "JUST A

MINUTE I'LL FIND OUT.:

TEEKSAT HAF THEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

LASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000207

310f 71

---

## Page 59

14-00000

('*)

'RIG.;

•XI.:

MISTR.8

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

TO

Page 3.

LASSIFICATIOI

INITIALS

OTG.

NUMBER

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

INITIALS

CITE

10L

NUMSER

ANYTHING YET. MO: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES

THEY SAY THAT A REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS

BEEN RECEIVED AS YET:" MO: "AND WHAT..?" SOVIET HANGS UP.

4. DOUGLAS I. FEINGLASS WHO DID TRANSCRIPTIONS SAYS

OSWALD IS IDENTICAL WITH PERSON PARA ONE SPEAK

RUSSIAN WHO CALLED FROM CUBAN EMBASSY

EMBASSY®

ROKEN

EMBER IO SOVIET

END OF MSG

AUTHENRBPING OFFICER.

COORDINATiNG OFFICERS

OSSERTEN

OUTGOING

0000208

RELEASING@EFICER

320F71

---

## Page 60

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO. .

"I. DIRECTOR

DOC. MICRO. SEE.

DEC 4 1974

MICROFILMED

ROUTING

FROM i MEXICO CITY

CS COPW

ACTIONS C/WH. 5. (MR. WHITTEN,) WH MR. BAGLEY, SR AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED AND

1700 23 NOV WB

INFO • DOI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP,

COPY SLOTTED AlL/Ci, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2, VR

SECRET 232845Z

INMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7028

23 800 631M 67187

REF

MEXI 7025 (IN 6T/83.)*

COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SEE ITTENSOR» 23 NOV.

COS THOUGHT WOULD BE FOR (LITENSOR EXPRESSION

CONDOLENCE

•OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED

THAT LIENUOY SHAD LOCATED CALL TO SOVIET EMBA

LEE OSWALD

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER..

3.

BELIEVE FACT THAT (LITENSOR AWABELO

SEPHIS CONTACT &FROM OUR

JOINT OPERATIOND) AND PASSED D

ANGESCOS IS IMPORTANI.

SECRETAIN

CS Comment:

*Forwarded a

of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

ESS

RECORDS ONFI: ER STAMP

Tho following

Fion 15

authorized:

1.00m22

EL IMPDET CL BY 0/32:8

CONDUCTED ON 1 6'APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

4

signed:

R.0. #1 - Unit CIOSS

Note:

If

cite

reasons and coordinate

D: 266=5-41

CS COPY:

1f appropriate.

Document Number

58-549

201-289218

51p or A ReMer on

APR 1976

23 N0N63

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0003209

330F 71

---

## Page 61

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

10, lOmeer dosignation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVEO

2.

WHITE

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

C IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

EXTENSION

NO.

SECRET

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

CORVARDED

DATE

Mei,

7421

NOV 2 3 1960

COMMENTS (Numbar ooch commont lo show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column ottor each commoni.)

DUP OF

No 23

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date:

2/2003

so do pos

Listenson s

10.

18.

12.

13.

15.

FORN

3-62

610 USEDPRONO

PREVIOUS

44214

34 0F 71

0000210

•SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 62

14-00000

11.8:

DRIG.:

¿XT.:

"!ISTR.:

(14)

TO

COS

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DTG.

DATE:

23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

P-8593)

LITENSOR P

LENVOY/Prod

NUMBEr

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

XX

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

CITE MEXI

7020

KAPOK

REF: MEXI-7025

1. COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SEE (LITENSOR 23 NOV.

2. COS THOUGHT WOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION

CONDOLENCE OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED THAT

LIENVOY 2 HAD LOCATED CALL TO SOVIET

POF LEE OSWALD

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER

3. BELIEVE. FACT THA

OR AWARE OF THIS CONTACT

FEROM OUR 'JOINT OF

AND PASSED DATA TO COS IS IMPORTANT. "

END OF MSG

DUP

58-549

0000211

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COOFDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

35 0F 71

---

## Page 63

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

-SECRET

DOC. MICRO. SER

ROUTING

DIRECTOR

DEC 4

19/4

CS COPVI

CIA SPHETAL COLLEGTIONS

ON • MEXICO CITAL MICROFILMED

RELEASE IN FULL

STIOND C/WH 5.

(MR WHITTEN, WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 8715 23 NOV WE):

FO "T DEI, 0/OC1, DOP, ADDP, C/C8, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/0S:2, VR

RECORDS OFFICER STAP

550119 2320482

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI : 7029

authorised: Sorri

Biened: I. Mart

R.0. #1 - Unit CIOSS.

S30N67190

REF. A.

DIR 84888*

Note:

If dectruction

B. REXT 7025(1116718453

reasons and;

it approa

Sọ, SAW PHOTOS OF LEE OSWALD ON TELEVISION

OBVIOUS PHOTOS SENT TO DALLAS VERE

OF 22 NOV AND IT

SHOTOS

WITH LEE OSWALD HELD

DALLAS, DATES ARE AS GIVEN ON

20: MEXI STATION REVIEWING ALL AVAILABLE PHOTOS PERSONS ENTERING

SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES.

3ò MEXI SUGGESTING TO LITEMPO 2 THAT SILVIA DURAN WHO

MEXICAN EMPLOYEE AT CUBAN. EMBASSY AND WHO PUT LEE OSWALD. ON

TELEPHONE FROM CUBAN EMBASSY TO TALK TO SOVIET EMBASSY ON 28 SEPT

BE ARRESTED IMMEDIATELY AND HELD INCOMMUNICADO UNTIL SHE GIVES.

ALL DETAILS OF OSWALD KNOWN TO HER.

(SEE REF B)

40 LITEMPO 2 CAN SAY DOF.S. COVERAGE REVEALED CALL TO HIM IF HE

NEEDS TO EXPALIN.

LASSIFICATION REVISY

1•6 APR 1971

CONDUCTED.ON_

ELEHMPDET CL BY 0 12208

CS Comments:

*Photos sent from Mexico City were not those of Lee Oswal

#*Forwarded a review of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

201-289248

0:200-

5-41

5,6

Document Number.

-20

23 Nou 63

• For FOlA. Review on

APR 1976

« SECRET.

REPRODUCTION. 5Y

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

0000212

368F 7)

---

## Page 64

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DOC. MICRO. SERT

-SECRET *

FOUTING

DEC 4

10°

1974

/ DIRECTOR

-CIA HISTORICAK REVIEW PROGRAM

FROM & MEXICO CI

MICROFILMED

GiS COPYI

RELEASE IN FULL

1099

ACTION;

C/IH 5(WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY. SLOTTEO T930 23 NOV BP)

INFO • DC!, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP

28

por 5 2322462

INMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7033

SEC

The follow'ar setias 1s

authortred: 21212-2223 Hor631N67232

signed: 1I

Note:

Is dostruction, cite

REF

BEXI 7025 (N.E71TT)

reasons and coordinato

1I appropriate.

S. "POLL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY OSWALD;

.. FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF-WOMAN OUISIDE; HE-MAN OUTSIDE

MD-WOMAN INSIDE; HD-MAN INSIDE.

Ao ON 27 SEPTEMBER

63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT.

HOMBRE

LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO

SACER UNA

HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LLAME AL 15 60

55

FUERA: PIDE LA DIRECCION. HOMBR

B. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63

IR

A. ODESA.

PIDA AL CONSULO MOMBRE

TRO:

SE LA PROPORCIONA."

SOV CONSULATE

1605 HRS "ENTRADA.

ME DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA ALLI UN CIUDADANO AMERICANO

QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA

LA URSS. Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PORQUE

ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE LA EMBAJADA RUSA

DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS

LE MACIAN O ACEPTABAN LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUBANOS TAMBIEN

SE LA DABAN SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A. EMIGRACION

EN CUBA Y

QUIERE SABER CON: QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABE TAMPOCO CON

QUE PERSONS Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA PROBLEMA.

D::2052-5-41

546

Gử MIPK

201-257.245

33N0u63

Enclados Hort

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ferritazios

Copy No.

ELSZIMPDET OL BYEL22 TO! FOIA Review on

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION RAVIEW

ment Number.

55

• APR

0000213

37 0F 21

---

## Page 65

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN. 67232

PAGE...2

LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. ME IS SILVIA DURAN DEL CONSULADO DE

- CUBA Y EXPLICA LO MISNO A OTRO HD.. ESTE LE DICE QUE LE DEJE SU

TELEFONO Y SU NOMBRE PARA QUE DESPUES LE LLAMEN, SILVIA SE LO

PROPORCIONA ASI COMO EL TELEFONO 11 28 47, Y QUE APROVECHA COMO COSA

" PERSONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA PODIDO AVISAR

PARA QUE LE ENVIEN, EL BOLETIN Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DAR. HD

LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOURKHARENKO

PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE

LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO O AGREGADO CULTURALA SILVIA DICE

QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 13 26=.

HD QUE GRACIAS. "

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV EMB TO

88 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE AMERICANO.

SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA. HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS QUE LES MOSTRO&

DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGION EL QUIERE IR A LA URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO

• TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA, PERO TODAVIA NO SE HA

DO

LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO A SU PROBLE

ESO SEGUN

LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO O CINCO MESES

SIN

TENER ESE

•PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE PREGUNATAR

JEN NO SE LE PUEDE

DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO SIN PRES

A WASHINGION PERO SEGUN

ESTE SENOR LE MOSTRO UNA CART

*QUE ES UN MIEMBRO DE UNA ORGANIZACION

EN FAVOR DE CUBA Y HA DICHO QUE ELLOS LOS CUBANOS NO PUEDEN •

DARLE EL VISADO SIN EL VISADO RUSO Y AHORA HD NO SABE QUE HACER

.CON EL, PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON.

SILVIA QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE: EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE COMO

EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO RUSO

OTAN

0000214

3319 71

---

## Page 66

14-00000

•CLASSITIED MESSAGE

IN

_PAGE 3

EN CUDA Y YA DE ALLA IRGE A LA UNSS.

!ID QUE LA COSA ES QUE SI SU

ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN MASIINGION FERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA EL

VISADO. O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,. ELLA VA

A'RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE VISADO ELLA

PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A CUALQUIER LUGAR ESE PERISISO POR EJEMPLO AQUI

O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO. PUEDE RECIBIR, PERO AMORITA NO LAS

TIENEN. SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE TAMPOCO SE LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARTA

PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU VISA SERA APROVADA. AD QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAN

EL VISADO SEGUN LAS INDICACIONES. SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA

EN

SU PLANILLA. HD QUE TAMPOCO NO SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERDONE®

POR LA MOLESTIA. SILVIA QUE NO HAY CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS, "

D. ON. 1 OGI 63 CALL AT 1031 HRS TO SOV MIL ATI IN BROK

RUSSIAN:

• "HELLO.

I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LASI SATURDAY AND I TAL

FOUR

•CONSUL. THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM

NGTON

AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHI

SOVIET:

"I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU TO CALL ANOTHER

UMBER. "

MAN OUTSIDE:

"PLEASE." SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITE

N 15 6R 55 AND ASK FOR A

CONSUL. MAN OUTSIDE: "THANKIVOU." SOVIET: "PLEASE, "

E" ON 3. OCTOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OUISIDE: SPEAKS

IN BRÖKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO. VISA FOR

RUSSIA. " SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONÉ." MAN OUISIDE:

"J'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA." SOVIET: "PLEASE, CALL

ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL. " MAN OUTSIDE:

"OH, THE CONSUL,"

SOVIET: "THAT'S RIGHT, 15 6D 55." MAN. OUTSIDE: "ONE MOMENT PLEASE,

I'LL HAVE TO GET A FENCIL TO WRITE THE NUMBER DOWN. THEY. ISSUE

241-289218

0000215

390F71

---

## Page 67

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN

0(232

PAGE

"THE VISA THERE?" SOVIET:

"THAT DEPLIOS ON YOUR CONVERSATION

I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS. PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL

AND ASK YOUR QUESTION. " MAN OUTSIDE:. ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE

TELEPHONE AGAIN.

SOVIET: GIVES THE NUMBER TO MIM AND TELLS HIM

TO ASX FOR THE CONSUL OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO, MAN OUTSIDE:

"IHANKS."

Cs Comment: *Forma-ded a review of LiENVOY (I) transcripts:

DUCTION PROMBITED

0000216

40sF71

---

## Page 68

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACHOA COPY

TO: (Orticor designation, room number, and

building)

SCOTT

WHITE

THAL

ONLY

CONFK, PTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

EXTENSION

NO.

MEXI

7033

DATE:

NOV 2 3 1963

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number ooch

commoni lo shom. from whom

FORWARDED

to whom.

RECHIVED

NOV 2

3 1983\

10.

Drom

a line across column after ouch commoni.)

DIP.

55-546

NO! 23 1963

care fi

REPROGUCTION

Dolpatio

9.

10.

18.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

DO USE PREVIOUS

EDITION.

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

P-8598

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

0000217

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

4l OF 71

---

## Page 69

14-00000

JISTR.:

TO

R: B. RIGGS

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMX)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XX

IMMEDIATE

23 NOVEMBER 1963

CERSSINEATION

FILE:

0-8593

LIENVOY/Prod

NUMBEN

INITIALS

'CIA LISTORICAL REVIS! PROGRAM®

RELEASE IN FUL

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

138

RYBAT

55-546

REF: MEXI 7025

1.

FOL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY

OSWALD; FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: ME - WOMAN OUTSIDE: HF -

MAN OUTSIDE; MD - WOMAN INSIDE: MEXX HD - MAN ENSIDE

¡A, ON 2T SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV !

"ENTRADA,

HOMBRE LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESAR

•UNA VISA PARA IR

A ODESA, HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LI

CONSUL, HOMBRE FUERA: P

MI 15 60 55 Y QUE PIDA AL

DIRECCION. HOMBRE DENTRO:

SE LA PROPORCIONA,"

B. ON 27 SI

TEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV CONSULATE 1605 HRS

"ENTRADA. ME DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE JUE ESTA ALLI UN

CIUDADANO AMERICANO QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA

EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER

CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PORQUE ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE

LA EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN

COORCINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000218

420771

---

## Page 70

14-00000

RIG

iT.:

STR.:

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

• Page 2.

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

IMETIALO

DTO.

NUMBEN

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERAMONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALD

INFO.

CITE

2130

NORBEI

LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUBANOS TAMBIEN SE LA DABAN

SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A EMIGRACION EN CUBA Y

QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SÁBLE

TAMPOÇO CON QUE PERSONA Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA.

PROBLEMA, HD LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. ME ES SILVIA DURAN

DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA Y EXPLICA LO MISMO A Q

ESTE LE

DICE QUE LE DEJE SU TELEFONO Y SU NOMBR

LLAMEN. SILVIA SE LO PROPORCIONA

QUE DESPUES LE

COMO EL TELEFONO Il 28 47,

Y QUE APROVECHA COMO COSA

¡ONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO

DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA P

VISAR PARA QUE LE ENVIEN EL BOLETIN

Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DAR. HD LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOUKHARENKO

PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO

O AGREGADO CULTURAL, SILVIA DICE QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA

Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 17 26. HD QUE GRACIAS. "

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV

EMB TO ll 28 47: "'HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE

AMERICANO. SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA, HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000219

430F71

---

## Page 71

14-00000

<T.:

ISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 3.

SERE

CLASSIFICATION

FILE:

DEFERRED

INITIALS

DIG.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBEN

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

7923

NUMBEN

QUE LES MOSTRO DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA

"URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA& PERO

TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO

A SU PROBLEMA, PERO ESO SEGUN LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO.

O CINCO MESES PERO SIN TENER ESE PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE

PREGUNATAR Y MAS BIEN NO SE LE PUEDE DESPACHAR

SIN PREGUNIARLE A WASHINGTON PERO SEGUN

UI EL VISADO

BNOR LE MOSTRO

UNA CARIA EN QUE ES UN MIEMBRO D

DE CUBA Y HA DICHO QUE ELLO

GANIZACION EN FAVOR

WBANOS NO PUEDEN DARLE EL

VISADO SIN EL VISADO

HORA HD NO SABE QUE HACER CON EL,

PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGION. SILVIA

QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, R PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE

COMO EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO

RUSO EN CUBA Y YA'DE ALLA IRSE A LA URSS. HD QUE LA COSA ES QUE

SI SU ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON PERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

0000220

U4DF71

---

## Page 72

14-00000

CasY. 1590

RIG.!

T.:

STR.:

(1-1)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 4.

CLASSIFICATION

FILE:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALD

DIO.

NUMBER

INITIALE

INFO.

CITE

7033

"NUMDEIT

EL VISADO O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,

ELLA VA A RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE

VISADO ELLA PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A SUAL QUIER LUGAR ESE PERMISO

POR EJEMPLO AQUI O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR,

PERO AHORITA NO LAS TIENEN, SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE TAMPOCO SE

LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARIA PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU VISA

APROVADA, +

HO QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAN EL VISADO SEGUN O

CACIONES.

SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA E

PCORANEVDACION BORGEE NO,

DANILLA, HD QUE TAMPOCO

SE LE PUEDE DAR NINGUNA

SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PER

TE POR LA MOLESTIA, SILVIA QUE NO HAY

CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS. "

Distance

RUSSIAN: "HELLO. "I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED

TO YOUR CONSUL, THEY SAID THAT THEY 'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO

WASHINGTON AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?"

SOVIET: "I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU IO CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUMBER,"

MAN OUISIDE: ""PLEASE," SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITE IT DOWN 15 60 55

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICaTING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000221

45 5F 71

---

## Page 73

14-00000

414)

PRIG:

XI.:

ISTR.:

TO

Page 5.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALT

DTO.

INITIAL'S

FILE:

NUMBER

INFO.

CITE

7033

NUMBER

AND ASK FOR A CONSUL." MAN OUTSIDE: "THANK YOU." SOVIET:

"PLEASE,"

E. ON 3OCTOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN ÖUTSIDE:

SPEAKS IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO.

VISA FOR RUSSIA," SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHOÑE." MAN

OUTSIDE: "I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA

"PLEASE,. CALL ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CON

"OH, THE CONSUL." SOVIET, "THAT'S PI

OUTSIDE:

55." MAN OUTSIDE:

"ONE MOMENT PLEASE, I'LL HAVE

A PENCIL TO WRITE THE

NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSE

VISA THERE?"' SOVIET: "THAT

DEPENDS ON YOUR CONVERSATION. I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS.

PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL AND ASK YOUR QUESTION, "

MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE TELEPHONE AGAIN. SOVIET:

GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM TO ASK FOR. THE CONSUL

OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO, MAN OUTSIDE: "THANKS."

END OF MSC

RBR

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

LASSIFICATIO!

OUTGOING

RELEASING EFFICER

: 0000222

L41 0F 71

---

## Page 74

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DOC: VICRO. SER

• DIRECTOR

ROM : MEXICO CITY

SS COP:

DEE 4-1974

| MICROFILMED

CTIONS C/SR 51MR BAGLEY SR Wit AND OS NOTIFICO ANE COPI, SLÓTIED 1E30 2U AN C

DCI, D/DGI, DDP, ADOP, C/CI, C/CI/OPS, C/FI, C/RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

he following action 1s

authorized: P

INMEL ATE DIR CITE MEXI 7834

Signed:

REDWOOD LCIMPROVE

R.0. #1 - Ur1z

6I08S

REF

DIR 87837; phase inversahar

liote:

I. 2:

1.0:

MORNING 22 NOV LIENVOY REPORTING SOVEMB NOR

cilto

Kinate

20

AT 125D HRS 22 NOV CUBAN CONSUL ALFRE

DIAZ ASKED

TO SPEAK WITH SUSPECT KGB PAVEL

YATSKOV.

LATTER

APPARENTLY..- UNAVAILABLE AND

CAME ON LINE WITH FOL!

CONVERSATION ENSUING IN FAMILIAR FORM "TU":

• KOS: FORGIVE ME. FOR ARRIVING LATE.

MIR: DID YOU RECOVER THE SUITCASE?

XOS: YES;

E/BRUMPDET CL BY 6/2208

7.

MIR: THEN IT WAS ARRIVING ON THE OTHER TRIP.

KOS: YES.

for FOlA Review ori

APR 1976

MIR: I CALLED IO TELL YOU THE FOLLOWING, THAT REGARDING

THAT MATTER THAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT, TO SEE IF WE WOULD SPEND #

IN CHAPULTEPEC PARK BECAUSE MY WIFE IS PREPARING SOME F0OR TO

EAT THERT.

H0S: I'M SORRY

BUT I'VE JUST MADE PLANS FOR ANOTHE

701-287248

I'D LENING THIS VERY DAY.

SO PLEASE FORGIVE ME FOR NOT DEINS

0: 100-8-14

33 GORY

2005-47

1209

5-41

23725063

KORODUCION SY

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO:

470F71

0000223

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1978

6:8

Document Number

---

## Page 75

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN.

67221

C2P:0F

TO GO WITH YOU. CAT THIS FOINT KOSTINGS IN ERROR ADDRESS 20

AS AZQUE, AND MIR CORRECIS

HIN• CONNENT: MER REPLACES EUSCEL

AZQUE LOPEZ, FORMER CUBAN CONSULI.

KOS: HAVE YOU ALREADY LALKED WITN

KGO OLEG MANSINOY 105I

NECH PORENKO?

NIR: L'D LIKE TO TALK WITH PAVEL YATSKOV.

KOS: WAIT A MINUTE, HE'LL COME NOW,

MIR: IF HE'S BUSY I'LL CALL HIM LATER, BUT I'LL BE AVAILABLE

FOR JHE NEXT HALF HOUR AT TEL NO 11 28 47.

KOS: 0K.

CONTINUANCE LIENVOY SOVEMB REPORTING AFTERN

CABLED SEPARATELY.

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITE

0000224

-480÷71

---

## Page 76

14-00000

RIG:: R.L. EASBY

T.:

STR.:

" CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

• CLABFLEASE IN EULL

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

1990

SEOKET

FILE:

P-8593

CLASSIFICATION

Э

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY.)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

XX

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DIG.

NUMBER

INITIALS

PRITY DIR

КАРОК

INFO.

DUP OF

CITE

7U36

MEXI NUMBER

59-23

COMPLETE RECHECK PHOTOS ALL VISITORS TO CUBAN EMB

AUGUST THRU FIRST HALF NOV AGAINST GOOD PRESS-PHOTOS SHOWS

NO EVIDENCE OSWALD VISIT. SIMILAR BLANK AGAINST ALL SOVEMB

PHOTOS FROM 1 SEPT. NOTE ONLY VISIT WE KNOW HE MADE WAS CUBAN

EMBASSY 29 SEPT, SATURDAY ON WHICH EMB CLOSED AN

AVE HAVE

NOT HAD COVERAGE

IN FUTURE WILL REQUIRE

HALF DAY

PHOTO COVERAGE BOTH SOV AND CUBAI

2. *CHECK MANIFESTS ALI

ARRIVING MEXI CENTRAL

AIRPORT FROM U.S. FAL

OSWALD ARRIVAL UNDER ANY LIKELY

VARIANT HIS NAME. PASSING THIS INFO GOM ASKING THEY CHECK

BORDER AIRPOIS FROM WELCH OSWALD MIGHT HAVE FLOWN MEXICO

CITY. WE DO NOT GET MANIFESTS THESE DOMESTIC FLIGHTS.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

END OF MSG

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

CLASSIFIEATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000225

19 oF 71

---

## Page 77

14-00000

CHIG: JOHN M. WITITSN

ExT™

5633

DATE: 24 MOVEDERI

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

UTT.

ID INDEX

D NO INDEX

L FILE IN CS FILE NO.

GS 8024

Mov 24

13

3 2 263

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 8

INHO: DEI, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP, CI, CI/OPS, Fl;

SR. 7, SAS 8,

(3)

TO

ROUTINE

2., VR

IMMEDIATS MAKI

INFO

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONSTE DIR

84920

LIENVOY

RELEASE IN FULL

AIR NING ALL THE TRATIC AND READING THE STATIN

SILVIA DURAi,

ONE

PORT CESTION STILL PUZZLES US.

AS OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO CIUSY IN LATE

SEPTIBER AND BARLY OCTOBER TO GET A SOVIET VISA AND A CURAN TRANSIT VISA, DID HE

FLAT TO TRAYS TO CUBA RIGHT WHAT, AONS, OR HAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND THEN

WAY FOR CURE ORDER TO RETURN TO THE STATES FIRST

THEN LEAVE LATER

ALIQUCE I APPRARS THAT HE WAS THEN THINKING ONLY ABOURS

AGENUL CHANGE

OF.

IT TO TH SO I CAN CAME TO PASSEN

ATHE WAS GETTING DOCUMENIED

DO MAKE A QUICK ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSINAT

PRESIDENT.

PLEASE RISTODY YOUR LTENVOY

LAND GIVE US YOUR OPINION, AND ALSO HAVE

MEXICANS QUESTICH SILVIA

CAREFULLY ON THIS POINT.

ADVISE.

EKID OF MESSAGE

65

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED.ON G APR 1976

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

-25

APR: 1976

D: 200-5-71

CS COPY

201-289248

200-541

24N0w63

3Y AUTHORIEY CE

TECIAS H. KARAMESSINK

ADOP

• BELEASING

OFFICER

25

OFFICERS

CROUP S

Excludod Ison automatic

gatgrading an

declassiticatio

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

WHILLEN

.C/WH 3

AUTHENTICATING

Copy Nội

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2005

50 0F 7!

---

## Page 78

14-00000

FORM 1303

11-37

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DIG

INITIALS

2413327

JPE

INFO

(18 4)

24 NOV 63

DEFERREO

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INCOMING NUNBER

• TO

6702

CITE

IMMEDIATE MEXI

LIENVOY

SO AFTER ANALYZING ALL THE TRAFFIC AND REAPPLIS

STATEMENT OF

SILVIA DURAN, ONE IMPORTANT QUESTION SCREE

OLUZZLES US. WHEN LEE

OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO CITY IN

ESEMBER AND EARLY OCTOBER TO

GET & SOVIET VISA AND A CL

TRANSIT VISA, DID HE WANT TO TRAVEL

TO CUBA RIGHT AWAY, ALONE, OR HAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND

THEN LEAVE FOR CUBA, OR DID HE PLAN TO RETURN TO THE STATES FIRST

AND THEN LEAVE LATER. ALTHOUGH IT APPEARS THAT HE WAS THEN THINKING

ONLY ABOUT À PEACEFUL CHANGE OF RESIDENCE TO THE SOVIET UNION,

IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT HE WAS GETTING DOCUMENTED TO MAKE A QUICK

ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSINATING THE PRESIDENT®

•20 PLEASE RESTUDY YOUR LIENVOY MATERIAL AND GIVE US YOUR OPINION,

AND ALSO HAVE MEXICANS QUESTION SILVIA DURAN VERY CAREFULLY ON

THIS POINT • ADVISE®

oris to

: Aylora DURANA_

not ad

File: 1-8553

24/13107

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000227

---

## Page 79

14-00000

7039 8304

SRIG.: R. L. EASBY

:XT.:

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

(14)

DISTR.:.COMMO

• CHRONO (DUMMY)

• CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

INITIALT

DIO.

DATE:

24 NOVEMBER $963

FILE: 2-7976

2-8593

NUNDER

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

RYBAT

DIR:

A. MEXI 7046

B. DIR 84920

CITE MEXI

DUP OF

94•565

7054

NUMBER

1. ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENTS REF A:

A. DURAN ARRESTED A

OF FAMILY WHO HAVING P

LE SAKEN TO JAIL

ITH HUSBAND AND MEMBERS

B. SINCE SHER TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER

TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER

MEMBERS OF FAMILY ABOUT OSWALD VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME

AND SAW TV. PICTURE, SHE AXIRIBUTED ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY

COUSIN WHOM DOES NOI LIKE. THUS SOURCE GOM KNOWLEDGE NOT

REVEALED TO HER.

C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWLAD STAYED IN MEXI.

D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS STILL VALID FOR

USSR. HE TOLD HER WISHED RETURN THERE PERMANENTLY WITH WIFE.

E. DURAN HAD IMPRESSION OSWALD HAD OR BELIEVED HE

HAD MADE ARRANGEMENTS. IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS

ANNER

AUTIENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000228

52 oF

71

---

## Page 80

14-00000

TOBY 13C4

JRIG.:

:XT.:

DISTR.:

(14)

TO

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

•DATE:

Page 2.

CEXSUIFEATION

FILE:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALO

DID.

NUMSEA

INITIALO

INFO.

CITE

7054

NUMBER

B! WHICH WOULD NOT. HIMSELE HAVE TO VISIT SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS

REAL OR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED HIM

BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. (COMMENT: PARA IC OF

3933

PARTIALLY BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DE

IN OSWALDS TALKS WITH SOVS. FUR

MAY REVEAL OSWALD BECAN

O SIGNS RUDENESS

TAILS DURAN INTERROGATION

VE IN CUBAN EMB AS RESULT HIS

FRUSTRATION BY SOVS.)

F. HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO COULD

NOT LIVE COMFORTABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISHED

RETURN TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN USSR

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHETHER HE GOT USSR VISA OR CUBAN

TRANSIT VISA BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART IN IT.

H. IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY

SHE UNAWARE.

2. REF DIR 8-1916 (IN 6687). ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN

RE LEAK AND HAS WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUI FEELS AI LEAST

FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL

BE LEAKED BY OTHER RELAT

COORDINATING OFFICERS

S PICKED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER :

0000229

530F71

---

## Page 81

14-00000

380371

1304

ORIG.:

EXY.:

DISTR.:

(

(44)

TO

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

Page 3.

CASSERTON

DATE:

FILE:

DEFERRED

POUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALI

DTO.

NUMBER

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

7054

UP SAME TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH

ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE RELEASED BUT KEPT

UNDER CLOSE SURVELLLANCE.

3. RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933 HQ HAS FY

PERTINENT CALLS. REGRET COMPLET

SCRIPTS ALL

SICK SHOWS TAPES FOR

THIS PERIOD ALREADY ERASED

N FEELING THAT ABOVE IS

BEST ANSWER OBTAIN

KEE B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION

DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES.

END OF MSG

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000230

RELEASING OFFiCER

540F71

---

## Page 82

14-00000

(

ROUTING

4.

• DIRECTOR

FROM

8 MEXICO CITY

RECTOR CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PRAIRAN

DOC MICRO. SER

16

RELEASE IN FUL

DEC 4

1974

ACTION I C

CAUS

1999

MICROFILMED

• INFO

DEI, D/DC1, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/F1.2, C/SR 5, C/SAS. 5, D/OS 2p VR

XXX

RECORDS OFFICER SIAHIP

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

gregor : 24/18377

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

ne following s9t10n 1

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7054

author lued:

ELSBIMPDET CL DY 012208

IMMEDIATE

CHEON WE 7378

REF MEXI 7846 (167778)#

R.0. #1 - U115 CHiPS

DAR 84920**

Note:

If doctruction,

cito.

reasons and

coordinate

!o ADDITLONS OR AMENDMENIS RERS A:. 1I appropriate.

AS DURAN ARRESTED AT HOME WITH HUSBAND, AND MEMBERS OF TAMILY VIO

1.8.

"HAVING PARTY, ALL TAXEN: TO JAIL.

B. SINCE SHE HAD TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER MEMBERS OF FAMILY

ABOUT JOSWALD VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME AND SAW TV PIGTURE, SHE ATTRIBUTED

ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIKE. THUS

SOURCE

• GOM

KNOWLEDGE NOT REVEALED TO HER.

Imber

1-565

C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWALD STAYED IN M

FOIA Review on

APR 1976

D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS

HER WISHED RETURN THERE. PERMANENTI

E. DURAN HAD IMPRESSION

MENTS IN WASHINGION WHEREBY

•ID FOR USSR. HE TOLD

TIFE.

201-289748

HAD OR BELIEVED HE HAD MADE ARRANGE-@

STRUCTIONS WOULD BE SENT SOVEMB MEXI TO

ISSUE SOV ENTRY VISA IN MANNER BY WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF HAVE TO VISIT

SOVEMB. FAILUKE HIS REAL OR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED

FOlA Review on

HIM BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. & COMMENT: PARA IC OF MEXI 7933 PARTIALLY

BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS NO SIGNS RUDENESS IN OSWALDS TALKS

1: 200-5-41

PO DA

6201-07.427790 UCTIoN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFICE IS PROHIBITED

242006618

• Copy Ns.

Document Number.ci

0000231

55 0F7!

---

## Page 83

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO

FROM B

ACTION&

NFO

• DIRECTOR

2

3

ROUTING

151

161

WITH SOUS. FURTHER DETAILS DURAN INTERROGATION MAY REVEAL

BECAME ABUSIVE. IN CUBAN EMB: AS RESULT HIS FRUSTRATIA

F. HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO B

ABLY UNDER RIGORS. OF CAPITALISM AND WISHE

USSR.

WALD

OT LIVE COMFORT-

TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN

Go DURAN KNOWS NOT WHE

T USSR VISA OR CUBAN TRANSIT VISA

BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PARTI

IT.

Ho IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY SHE UNAWARE.

•20. REF DIR 84916. ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN RE LEAK AND HASI

WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST FAGT OF ARREST MAY WELL

BE LEAXED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED UP SAME TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE

PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE

RELEASED BUT KEPT UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE

3. RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933. HQ HAS FULL TRANSCRIPTS. ALL PERTINENT

SALLS. REGRET COMPLETE RECHECK SHOWS TAPES FOR THIS PERIOD ALREADY ..

ERASED, STATION FEELING. THAT ABOVE IS BEST ANSWER OBTAINABLE TO:!!"

LEF B. BUT WILL 'REQUEST REINTERROGATION DURAN IF HQ STILL

DESIRES.

CIS COMMENI: *Echeverria told COS Duran completely cooperative ond gar

written statement attesting to two visits by Oswald.

**Did Oswald want to travel to Cuba rigt awer, alone, :

his wite join him there and then leave dos Gula, or did le plat lo ret? to

Arsi ind then leave later?

0000232

1560F21

REPRODUCTION MY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PHUHIUTED

....."..

Capy No.

---

## Page 84

14-00000

UNCLASSLFIED

RNAL

ONLY

CONF

'NTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

TO: (Oñicor dosignation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVID

FORWARDED

?.

WHITE

NOY 2 5 1963

EXTENSION

''May, 7055-

NOV 2 5. 1963

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

SECRET

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FUL

1999

DUP

BEPRODUCTION

PROH

2 5 1963

33

8.

Phillipo

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORPA

3-63

610 USE PRENS

PREVIOUS

P8593

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

0000233

570F71

---

## Page 85

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

POUTING

121

TO

• 8 DIRECTOR

2

3

IS 02771

FROM & MEXICO CITY

AGRONS C/WH 5 (WH COPY ISSUED 1300 25 NOV/OJ)

INFO.

DCI, D/DCI,

C/ SAS 5, D/OS 2, VR

DDP, ADDP, C/SOD: 4g C/CA 2j C/CA/0.2, C/CI, C/FIR, C/SR 5,

Ext Got 25 / 17217

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7055/

2.5 Now 631467620

do MEXI DAILY "EXCELSIOR" OF 25 NOV IMPLYING OWN INVESTICATIONS RAN

STORY DESCRIBING OSWALD TRIP TO MEXICO 26 SEPT THRU 3 UCT • CROSSED

BRORDER AT LAREDO. VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY 27 SEPT AND

NEXT DAY WENT TO

SOVIET EMBASSY, PURPOSE ALLEGEDLY WAS TO OBTAIN VI

IET UNION.

THIS

NOT OUR LEAK. CANNOT ELIMINATE GOBER

2. FYI: FRESUME HQS IS AW.

8963• AT RECEPTION AT BRA

SOURCE.

STORY DATELINED HAVA & SEPT

EMBASSY FIDEL CASTRO IS QUOTED: • WE

ARE PREPARED TO FIGHT THEM AND: ANSWER IN KIND. UNITED STATES LEADERS

SHOLLD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS IO

ELIMINATE THE CUSAN LEADERS, THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE.""

3. PARA ONE STORY WENT ROUTEDSNOAICERDAANY

authorized:

CLASSIFICATION RSVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

E/s EMPDET CL BY 212208.

Signed:

Fritin

R.0. $1. - Unit

CI/R+A

Di 200-5=X/M0re:

If destruction,

cite

Document Numbor 29m ge

Lessona:and coordinate

no eppropriato.

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

201-289248

-200-541:

25N0U63-

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0000234

58.0F.71

---

## Page 86

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

O UNCLASSIFIED

*ERNAL

ONLY

CONFY "NTIAL"

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT, (Optional)

FROM:

ACTION EOFY

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

NAVE 8149-6710

NOV 2 5 1963

7Or

(Officer dosignation, room numbor, and

building)

Phillip

DATE

RECEIVED

OFPICER'S

Pressedan

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Numbar doch commont lo show from whom

to whom.

Dren a line across colums oftor ouch commans.)

25.21096

THIS CALL WAS

HEARD BY LOTS OF

pEofLE.

DUP

DUSTION PROMISE

7.

B..

%.

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-08

SCOTT

WHITE

MON 2,5529

PERNARE WORTN

MENTIONING A STAFF

MEETING. =TO SAGE

NOW INSECURE

INTERNATANILCILS

ARE.

610 USE PRONOUS:

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

0000235

UNCLASSIFIED

590F71

---

## Page 87

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

2

"ROM

• DIRECTOR

• UNHAVE

ACTION; SAS 8

get 909-2522217

DIR INFO MEXI CITE WAVE 8149

TYPIC

25 000 63 IN 6 7731

10: ODFOAD ADVISED WAVE IHAT PHONE CALL FROE ONE JOSE SAN ANTONIO

CABACA IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 1863J4) TO DR. EMILIO NUNEZ PONIUONDO,

MIANI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER 63. CONVERSATION WAS IN

SOVISH

AND GIST. OF IT IS: PLAN OF CASTRO CAPRIED FORWARD

* IS NEXT:

SOON THE ATOMIC BOMBS WILL RAIN AND

THEY WI

KNOW FROM WHERE.

WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS HE

01-312304.

NO RECORD CASACA.: HOWÉVER,

•SED CABACA

IS FROBABLY JOSE

ANTONIO CABARCA SAINZ, DOB

1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CUSA:

CURRENTLY RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3009 AND HAS SAME PHONE

NO. PARA 1 ABOVE. HE IS NOW

OCCUPIED WITH OSTAINING MEXICAN VISAS

FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUSA: HE IS PRONOUNCED BAIISTIANO

AND PIGHT IST WITH TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN U.S. AND HEADS THE

ALIANZA PAPA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICA.

CLASSIFICATION. REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

3.

LOCAL

COFJA? SEING

INFORDED RE PAPA 2 INFO.

ELS@IMPDET CL BY 012208

SEPT

Document Number 10! 573

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

381-289248

0000236

-Rit: coin

REPRORUCTION BY OTVER THAN THE ISSUING ORSICES PROSEMES

600F71

---

## Page 88

14-00000

D-UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

E ONLY

COM

LENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

EXTENSION

NO.

206.7

DATE

HOT Z3

TO:

¡Ofteor designation, room rumbor, ond

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S.

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Numbor ouch commont lo show from whom

so whom. " Draw a line across column aftor doch commoni.)

3.

SCOTE

WATE

NOT 2 5 1983

3.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

REPREBUCTION PROMBIED

10.

11.

Phillips

12.

13.

11.

15.

FORM

3-07

010 USE PREVIOuS

EDITIONS

0000237

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

610F71

---

## Page 89

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL:

1990

CLASSIFIED MESSÄGE

SECRET

ROUTING

• DIRECTOR

83 D02Y

•ROM O MEXICO CITY

ICTION. G/WH5 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1430 26 NOV/LMGI

NFO

¿ DEI, D/DEI, DDP, ADDP, 6/C60 S/Fi 2, C/SAS 5, VR, D/OS 2, C/SR 5

Sate F 2618392

IMPEDIATE MANA INFO IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7067

Agent

80 AT THIS MOMENT STATION OFFICER AND LOCAL

• SECURIT TOFFICER

ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN WHO CLAIMS THAT ON

18 SEPTEMBER

• SAW

BEE OSWALD RECEIVE SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED D'OLLARS IN

INSIDE CUBAN EMBASSY MEXI.

PRU

2. REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE MEXI OPTE

A BRACES GILBERTO

ALVARADO, BORN 38 JAN 1948 CIUDAD RARI

OBAYA, NICARAGUA. CLAIMS

HE AWAITING FALSE MEXICAN DOCUN

ON PRIOR RECEIVING SABOTAGE

TRAINING CUBA•

SAYS JUAN LORILLO, ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS

FONSECA AMADOR ARE MEMBERS HIS &COMMUNIST? ORGANIZATION

NICARAGUA.

Document Number 124-54

for FOlA Review on APR 1976

1: 200-5-41

RECORDS OFFICER STAUP

the following action 15

authorized: DE SENSITIZE

Signed:

l: Hartm

3.0. #1 - Unst CI/REA

Hote:

Il destruction, cite

11 appropriate,

As copyi

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED D: 24 MAY 1976

IMPDET CL BY 0122 US

20 5 41

7620U63

SEERET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

620F21

---

## Page 90

14-00000

UNiT

Ixi

DATE

JOILM M. WILTITST

CLASSINGO MESSAGE

112-52

RONIlING

D INDIX

5613

O NO INUX

• 9 DECEMBER 1953

[J FILE IN CS FILE: NO.

8 DEC 03

1817E

TO ' :

MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C./WH 4

SIG GER

DEFERRED

X ROUTINE

INFO: D:1, D/DCI, DDP: 6/C1, 6/C1/31, VP

TO

MEXI

INFO

RYBAT GPFLOOR

RET:

MEXX 7241 (DV 73638) *

CITE DIR

87770

CIA SPECIAL

COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

PIS DO NOI ERASE (ANY SOVIET OR CUBAN TAPES UNTII, FURTHER NOTICE.

ADVISE HOW MUCH MORE TAPE YOU NEED.

DOC. MICRO. SER.

END OF MESSAGE

DEC 4

1974

MICROFILMED

C/S. Comment:*Station to erase routine tapes Soviet Embassy, keep-

ing normal two-week lag.

RyaS

12101

RECORDS

PARE PESGEKY

REPRODUCTION

PAD

lording t

simo?:

h -Hait

Noto:

CS COPY

D-200-5-41

By Direction of

RICHARD FELIS

, DDE

RELEASINO

OFFICER

reasons and coordinto

If appropriato.

201-289248

254-119

Document Number

MAY 1976

fOr FOlA Review on

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON. 24 MAY 1976

— IMPDEr CL. BY 2. 3201

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP

Excluded legs

automatic

desatiating and

AUTHENTICATIN

ue111

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 220033

0000223

63 0F 71

---

## Page 91

14-00000

ORIG :

UNIT:

EXT:

DATE::

J.

M.

WHITTEN: Cal

C/WH/3

O INUEX

5613

D NO INDEX

4 MAY 1964

O FILE IN CS FILE NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

THEREI

ROUTING

YElay 50

TO

MEXICO CITY

137

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONf :

C/WH. 4

file

p00.

•SIC CEM

DEFERRED

BE ROUTINE

DCP, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI, C/cI/si, C/CIARA, VR

INFO

CIA SPECIAL COLLEOTIONS

RELEASE IN FUEDR

18827

WARREN COMJISSION REQUESTS WE FURNISE FOLLOWING INTO:

BOURS WEEN CUBAN AND SOVIST UNBASSIES AND

CONSULATES IN NEXICO CITY ARE OPEN TO PUBLIC:

THEIE

NORMAL WORKING HOURS. THEIS PROCEDURES

PORHAL AND INFORMAL INVOLVED IN

JULATIONS,

RUITS FOR

DESCRIPTION OF

MEXICAN GOVER

TRAVEL OF PEPRIME CITIZENS

TO AND THROUGE CUBA.

2.

REQUEST ISI CABLE SUHHARY OF ALI, THAT CAN BE ASCHETAINED

RECORDS OFFICER. STARP

o PolloTing action 1s

uthorized: DE SENS/ 8726

END OF MESSAGE

10. 11 - unit CILRIA

¡oto:

Is destructior,

cite

reasons and

coordinate

12 appropriate.

→ Document Number

671-289

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

copy

to C1/R$A

201-289248

- BAFORD

W. HERBERT

AC/WH

CS COPY

COOROINATING OFFICERS

6002240 4

JEAN M.

WHITTEN

C/WB/3

GROUP &

RELEASING OFFICER

Exciuded framertiomatic

compefading and

ICAL

classolication

D- 200-5-BRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date:

2/20.03

640F71

---

## Page 92

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

70

& DIRECTOR

FROM

-SECRET

Martine e

ROUTING

3

ACTION:

INFO "

MEXICO CITY

c/vr 4

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI,

T'üe 1o.

MOTION ENSITIZE

Signed:

DIR CITE MEXI 9332

• Hartu

TsUn 64577.522

2,0. 11- U1 CA/REA

Note:. Il dostruction, oste

REF DIR 18827%

reasons and coordinate

1. SOVIET EMB AND CONSULATE ARE NOT OPEN TO PUBLIC-

OFFICES

ARE

IN COMPOUND ACCESSIBLE TO PUBLIC BY APPOINTMENT.

OVIET

GUARDS

ARE ON QUISIDE GATE AROUND CLOCK. NORMAL WORK

WERE BIDD TO 1800 EUI RECENTLY CHANGED GORES

FRIDAYS. SIXIEEN SOVIET FAMILIES LIY

COMPOUND.

1963

MONDAY AND

VISITORS RING

BELL AT GATE AT ALL HOURS.

RUS

PEAKERS CAN GET IN ANYTIME.

OTHERS USUALLY TURNED . 'AWA

IRD AFTER HOURS: SOVIETS ARE

NO'S

KNOWN TO ISSUE PERMITS

RAVEL CUBA.

2.

CUBAN EMB AND CONSULATE IN SAME COMPOUND BUT HAVE SEPARATE

ENTRANCES.

CONSULATE RECEIVES VISITORS FROS LEER TO 1400 HOURS

MONDAY THROUCH FRIDAY. EMBASSY WORKING HOURS ARE FROM D90G TO 1705

HOURS SAÏE DAYS BUT MOST EKBASSY VISITORS USUALLY ATTENDED BEFORE

1402 HOURS, THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING SEPT 63-

201-280648

3.

CUBAN EMB PROCEDURES AND REGULATICNS FOR ISSUING PERMITS

FOR TRAVEL TO AND THROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORDALLY VALID FOR THREE

HONTHS FRON DATE OF ISSUECO PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY

Docurien Number 68.32981

For FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

2-200-5-41

-SECRET,

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER-THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0000241

---

## Page 93

14-00000

See Sanitized Filo

SUBSIFIED MESSAGE

V

SECRET.

IN 77522 PAGE 2

REQUIRED, -BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA. APPLICANT COMPLETES VISA

APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, PERMISSION OFTEN OBTAINED

IN EXCHANGE OF CABLES BETWEEN EMBASSY AND MINREX HABANA. IN MANY

CASES VISAS ISSUED ON SEPARATE SHEET PAPER IN EFFORT CONCEAL FACT

OF TRAVEL.

AA MEXICAN GOVT PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PBPRIME

CITIZENS IO AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED. SINCE HAMA 20887 DATED 3. HAY

8263г

PEPRIME CITIZENS WITH PASSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS ARE FREE TO

TRAVEL IO CUBA. PBPRIME CITIZENS CAN OSTAIN TOURIST CARDS

FROM

MEXICAN CONSUL HAVANA FOR RETURN VIA MEXICO.-

C/S Comment. #Warren Commission requested

and Soviet Embassies and Consulates in Mex

working sours; toeir procedures and res

Issuing permits for travel to and thro

EK furtish hours when Cuban

are open to public, ¿eis normal

formal and inorinal irvolved in

÷ Г.

Moose creator

0000242

SECRET

16. of 71

---

## Page 94

14-00000

Inside Washington

210ct.64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From Was

By ROBERT S. ALLEN.

cials who actively oppose

on his yet to be

used

dismissal of such persons

liquid

And PAUL SCOTT

*Soviet policies.

against

Titled

any

high

West-

from public office, at oth

form.

Th

"Soviet Strategic

ern

official, hundreds of

• Within se

VASHINGTON, Oct. 20

Executive

Action,"

the

KGB agents

covertly

op-

er

times

even

having

them eliminated' physi-

•autopsy n

- The

Central Intelli

suppressed

CIA

docu-

rating outside of Russia

cally

ils

use.

gence

Agency

withheld

ment went into the shock-.

have

been

supplied with

activities

vital

are poisons ha

intelligence

'Such

infor-

ing details of how agents

this

pocket-size,

known to be undertaken

ed which

mation from the Warren

of KGB, the Soviet secret

awaiting only orders

Commission during its in-

police, are trained to do

from Moscow to

use it.

against

other

types of

fect until

persons in the West, not-. after bein:

vestigation

of

the

sination.

of

President

away

with Western lead-

The

Murder

Weapons

ably

defectors from the

thus allow

ers, including

officials in

U.S.S.R.

Kennedy.

the

U.S.,

HIGHLIGHTS

of

the

and. from

other

to be far i

and to

make

suppressed

intelligence

countries

of the

Despite

Soviet

when his

the coromis

their deaths

appear due

estimate, which is locked

bloc.

sion's written request for

to: naturat causes.

in a security area within

recently reported

"*A

kno

all documents that might

One of the KGB's new.

the

ha.

tightly guarded

source

shed

Iy.

CIA.

ation technique is

light

on the assas

pneumatici

devised.

assassination

are

as follows:

sination,

CIA

socute an individ-

poisol

ice

authorities

wapons is "a: pnumati-

"It

has

been

геро

luring

him

to

thich lear

failed to turn over a na-

cally. operated poison ice. that the KGB

telephone,

connect-

or other

tional

intelligence

esti

'atomizer," • which

leaves .

to remove the

to a high-voltage wire,

_cause of d

mate

warning

that it

is

•10.

wound

Jr: other

•evi

Soviet interest

during

a thunderstorm.

Congress

Kremlin policy to remove

dence of the cause of

certain premb

from

"Another involves

the

gators.

wh

public office by as

death.*

ern gone

Some-

use

of

pistol

which

that

the 'r

sassination

Western offi-

While this deadly weap

tim

for;the • projects a poison gas in : committee

Tomer Sopra

- Document

OTHER

gence

•du

•DIOUS

istence

Lin:

ress"

that

the Warren

•Commis

Sion's.

irdings might

have

difterent

able for stry..

out that

the State beat meat

suppressed. evidence link.

ing

Oswald with one of

its

employes,.. who

ac-

cording to security. files,

"presented

strong

pro-

Soviet

wiews

.on

every

question

• in

that came up

the Department's

U.S.S.R.

country commit.

tee*

while

he was t

member.

Tais State Department

Dificial's name also

ap

peared

In

tbe

address

book of a suspected So

viet

agent

who

arrived

In

the

U.S.

in 1943,

cording to - goverument

ЕДез.

Congressional irvest.

gators

also

have been

shocked to discover that

assassmation

Shown by radministration

•officials to Speaker John

McCormack (Mass.),

Dext

in line to succeed Presi

dent Johnson

While

FBI officials

warned Speaker

McCor-

mack,

dedicated

ant!:

Communist, that he is on

the list of Western offi

rials feared by the Krem

no

CIA

authority

nas soown the No. 2 man

in government

the

CIA

report

listing

these se

cret Soviet assassination

methods.

Instead,

MIc C ormack

learned about the report

only

recently from

gressional

probers

who

are tryng

to - determine

why

the

document has

been suppressed

The investigators also

are trying

determine

wby the

CIA in its

pre

assassination

report

to

the State Department

Oswald's trip

to

Mexico

City gave details

only

of

the defector's visit to the

Russian

embassy and not

the

Cuban embassy.

CIA did

not

report

The

the

latter

visit

until

after

Kennedy's

assasamation

• in

Dallas.

falm

p- 8593

The caller foon the

Cuten

voices

851? Cmpared

6000243

675571-

---

## Page 95

14-00000

6808

71

0000244

Inside Washingfon:

210ch 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

My ROBERT S. ALLEN

And PAUL SCOTT

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

—dic

Central Intelli

Agency

WITHRICIN

intelligence

the

infor-

Warren

the

29535-

vestigation

Kennedy

Despite

the

commis-

sion's wrillen reauest for

all documents that might

light

CIA

the

Sailed to

cials who actively oppose

*Sovict

MILIES

Executive

suppressed

salon

docu-

40De16.

on des, Ise Sovie seeres

the Soviet

police,

are trained to

away,

To entertet

including officials

the

U.S.

and

their

deaths

to

make

of the KeB's new.

devised

operated

on has

yet to

be

ised

dismissal of

quld

compressed

against

high

ern

officia, hundreds

+ WaS FIMRLH

of

at ott-

The

gas

tata?

tim e s

4L0H4S

KGB

agents

erating

covertly

outside

19Ye

Russia

them'

aulopsy would not reveal

use.

Non-tracc able

supplled with

cally

activities

áre': poisons have been report.

this

pocket-size,

TIRE C 202H

фа wben 10 x01

take Pir

awaiting

only

other

types

until several hours

from

Moscow to

st, not-

after

being administered,

Murder

Weape

defector

thus allowing an

HIGHLIGHTS

DUCA

1e we 18.1ii

scene

suppressed

intelligency

which is locke

the

Soviet

when his

victim

dies.

knowledge able

n a

security

area

e recently.

reported

source

ther tightly guarded

aren

CIA,

cination technique is: pneumatically

TOLOS

1OXON

1000

'ato miyer

been

reported

KGB

endeavors

him

which

leaves

wound

connect-

or

other

evidence of the

INCINCTLY

C511"

ven so it interthe press

coltage

wire,

,cause

M8Y5DVAB98.

death

Congressional

Investl-

Kremlin policy

to remove

from

sassination

office by

Western offi-

certain membets of West

have

asked

ern governments; som

WISE

Talen

gas 'in

tont the

name or toeir

• committee

for

security

re.

port

CIA

Dircetor

N0.84

Minde

inention of this explosive

sccret

14M812A

Warren Commission.

White McCone furnish-

ed the

commission with

the CIA's secret surveil-

lance

reports

on

Harvey

Oswald's

in Mexico

cight

City

10 49

fore the assassination.

ist

cluding

details

Os-

contact

with

the

KGB

agent

the

CM01581

the

CIA

ChIet

gave

hint of the Kremlin's as

sassination polley.

(CONTINUED ON B.D)

Documents, KXX

OTITER

UB.

gence experti

While

tho

Commig

sion's

•warned

FBI officien

Speaker

Modor

have

bac

dedicated

CLA"

other

docaments

whenist of Wester

the State De

cinis feared by the Kren-

Xin,

CIA

partment had been avail

nuthority

in government 0. 2 mA

out out that on the dese

Soviet assassination

arrantle

p. 8593

Who talked

to there

gup

---

## Page 96

14-00000

DISPATCH

PROCESSING ACTION

MARXED FOR INDEXING

Chief of Station,

Mexico City

INFO.

NO INDEXING REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIEO DESK

$ FROK

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROSTYAE DENO

SUBJECT

Chief, WH Division

O Lee Harvey OSWALD

LETION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

-RELEASE IN FULL

MICROFILM

1999

Action Required: Plesse advise re zegatives

Lee Harvey OSWALD and

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

like to determine whether the Station

WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would

the negatives

still has on band

from which the prints avallable at Headquarters

were made of the unidentified "mystery man" coming out of

both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies:

on Isle,

If they are

It is reguested that they remain so, and that they

be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than

destroyed

18 the latter action is ever contemplated.

5, Bsect

Elsie I. SCALETTI

Request for th

negatives

of the unidentified

leaving both the

Souiet

•EmbAssies

SAY MAN"

CubAn

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

: CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

ENT- 15488.

RI

Chrono

Oswald

OFFICE

WH/1

(soft filel

OFFICE SYMBOL

Na 12

OFFICE SY!A80L

C/WH/1

ABSIRIO.

1.33

USE PREVIOUS. EDITION.

MEG. 8-80

69 of 71

SAME AS

1061-964

201-289248

BC TRAY 1957

DATE

18 May 1967

GROUP 1

Deluded rang aud

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-289248

ORIGINATING

OFFICER

TYPIST

C. Bustos-Videla

COORDINATING

sas

EXT

6954

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

"it"

0000245

STis

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

DISPATCH

---

## Page 97

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

INFO.

FROM

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUGE INDEXING

Chief, WH Division

! SUBJECT

Lee Harvey OSWALD

AOTION REQUIREO - REFERENCES

MICROFILM

Action Required: Please advise re negatives

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would

like to determine whether the Station still has on hand

the regatives .from which the prints avallable at Headquarters

were made of the unidentifled "mystery man" coming out of

both

the Soviet and Cuban Embassies.

on ille,

it is requested that they remain so,

_If they are still

and that they

be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather that

destroyed if the latter action is ever contemp

10: 1-969

ACES

RTBR

371947

SCALETTI

dispatchi

super

keep

we

Lenn

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

• CROSS REFERENCE TO

for 1 Oct 1963. RoR.

3 2 10Y CU

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMW-15488

DATE

18 May 1967

CLASSIFICATIDSIded M

Floral:

crating and

Teclassilicallon

HOS FILE NUMGER

201-289248

0-8593

0000246

708F71

---

## Page 98

14-00000

BNCLASSIFIED

RNAL

I ONLY

CONFK NTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD

SHEET

SECRET.

SUBJECT; (Optional)

FROM.

ACTION COPY

•EXTENSION

NO

MEX/ 7034

DATE

TO: ¡Offees designation, roor numbor, and

building)

DATE

FORWAROSO

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

SCÃO

Coom 7S lumbor ooch comment to show trom whom

Drow a line aeross colum ottor eoch commons..

DUP

59-23

3.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DOM PACHIBITET

Nee'll hame toler

Toe houses of the

Red asides, Later

P- 8593

13.

83.

15.

FORM

3-02

' C000247

610 "St PRevoUs

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

9809.71

---

## Page 99

14-00000

SUAJECT TOMORON

EXTENSION

FROM:

LOTION COPY

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

1.

SCORE

Than

2.

WALE

3.

Д.

5.

NO.

mex!

9232

DATE

•y in jang

COMMENTS (Number each commons lo show from

thom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after euch comment.)

Dupef

693-291

pasture

REPRODUCVION

PROMIBITED

Ord

9..

10.

82.

13

84:

15

FORTA

3-02

Pheelyn

File

610 SERIOUS.

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

Lee Hanay Osals

(p.8593

• INTERNAL

UNCLASSIFIED

USE ONLY

0000248

---

## Page 100

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVEW PROGRAM SECRET

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

Memo passad to Ma Papich if ESI 27 November 3963

with into aN picto cousinge arombassios

ONLINGO ON KOSTIKOL.

s have photographis coverays during daylight hours on the

Vosh, Guns, Caechosloval ain Fullah Embassios. That consulates

are located in dae cinbussion in thorafore the coveraga si tha

embassles i cula include cover age di thu cuasulator

The photographic coverago si lee mentioned lastallutiong is of

a castano sature duriag dayllghs house. kowager, vorther

condillong and 0h08 1006011dle lay say chologra

guise tha: the -overage nut or considered a

Complete.

sHeiul for identlication

De all persong who anter ur

1ch Iotalation.

XAAZ

3590

Bayoni reasonablo down tha le is i all aliena o. the kGi.

Contstbusing to this concludion are his sasocisico, bis movemeats,

his ireican and oises cortschs aml his cover vortion, as vell za

No lavalverners in 1oa

Poberatloi.:

lOST DO 048 1

so bellena thai to la connected with to 13th Departmos. KOST ISOV

Bas la classtine corkael WiS 1

(as defialtaly con

fared bya

gato leslicolon) end arranged

P/itl

D.05

Document Number 182÷621

Bor Fois laviow on

APR. 1976

RECORD COPY.:

159 663

CLASSIFICATION REVIELY

CONDUCTED ON A MAY 197E

E_ IMPDET OL PV O1ZZU8

JFK #

• 063

I copy of ?

0000249

27501

301-28724

SECRET

(D)

---

## Page 101

14-00000

DIR

Cantil Chrono, Ju

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

INITIALS

DIG.

NUMBEA.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALE

5532

INFO.

CITE

RIEST NONSER

FETRAT GPFLOOR

RIDE':

DIR 13827

658

291

DO SOVIET IUB AND CONSULATE ARE HOT OPLE TO PUETIC. OFFICES ARE IT COI

POUND ACCESSIBTE TO PUBLIC EY APPOIFTMENT.

SOVIET GUADS ARE ON OUISIDE GATE

AROUND CLOCK.

FORMA, WOBK HOURS SIP 1963 MERE 0900 TO 1800 BUT RECUTTY CHANGED

0200 TO S400 MONTAI THROUGE FRIDAY, SOY CONSULATE FREQUETILY CHANGE. HOW OFEX

2200 TO 1300 MONDAYS AND FIERYS, SIDCUNCH SOVLET FANTATES LIVE IN COMPOUND.

VISCIORS RING SELL AT GATE AI AL TIMES HOURS.

RUSSIAL

OS CAT GET I

ANYUOTE, OTHERS USUALIT TUERED AHAY EE GUARD AFTE

SOVIETS ARE NOT

KRONT TO ISSUE PERMITS FOR TRAVEL CUBA,

CUBAN EMB AND CONSULATE IN

POUND BUT HAVE SEPARATE. ENTRANCES.

CONSULATE NBCEIVES VISITORS

1O 1400 HOURS MONDAY THROUGI FRIDAY.

EMBASSE WORKING HOURS A

0900 TO I700 HOURS SAME DAYS BUT HOST EMBASSY

ISTIORS USUALLS ATTÈNDED BEFORE 1400 HOURS.

THESE HOURS AISO APPLIED DUTING

SEPT 63.

30 CUBAN DIS FROCEDUILS AND REGULATICKS FOR ISSUING PERINIS FOR TRAVEL, TO

AND DROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORMALLY VALID FOR TERME NORIS FROM DATE OF ISSUS.

PRIOR ANTHORIZATION PEON HABANA INVARIAILY RIZURID BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA.

APPLICANT CO-PLETES VISA APFIICATION FOR AT CONSULATE, PERMISSION OFTEN OBLAIRED

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000250

---

## Page 102

14-00000

DEFERRED*

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALO

DTO.

NUMDEA

INITIALS

INFO.

402 к

NUNSER

3332

TO EXCHANGE OF CARLOS BINTELE ELBASSY AND BINME HABANA, IT BANY CASES VISAS

ISSTED III SEPARATE SHALI PAPER IN EFFORI CONCEAL FACT OF TRAVEL.

ISEXICAN GOVT PROCIEDURES AND RECULATIONS RE TRAVEL PEPRIME CONCZERS TO

AIID THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED SINCE ENA 20B8T DATED 3 HIAY 1963. PEPPIE CLIZENS

VITYA PISSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS ARE FREE TO TRAVEL IO CUBA, PEERIE CULTZIUS

CAR OBTATY TOURIST CARDS EBC MINCICAN CONSTI, HAVANA FOR REFUSE VIA MESICO.

CELIANONd NOLONGONE

ARDGES

NICATING OFFICER

MOCHOADEN

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

QUIGOING

0000251

FOCURAIS

RELEASING OFFICER

---

