# 104-10227-10054

## Page 1

104-10227-10054

ricrhoei.a

af-"GASSIFIED MESSAGE

605006688

SIGNATUE.

e. CATE 1 16 APR 63

40

SECRET

7O

• DIRECTOR

FROM • JAWAVE

SAS 10

ACTION

/ (COPY ISSUEO TO IW 2000 15 APR BP)

0C1, 0/0C1, 00P,. ADDP, CA 2,

CA/REG, CA/PROP, CA/O

61/0p9,

61/ic 2, 51, 50/0, ri/INT 2, 1IN, 00/10

AD/C1 2, A0/M6, 9/ 2.

ROUTINO

APR 16 0051Z 63

1, cIe PRIORITY

IN 18237

TOCS DI - 3/654,105

PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 7162

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATAS ANDENIM I FROM FONT AND CUESTA, FILEU 1523572

REPORT CLASS CONFIVENTIAL. CONTROLLEU DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: REPORT

MEETING BETWEN JOSE MURO LARDONA AND OFFICERS

A..

OF COMANUOS

VOI: 14 APR 63

PADAs 15 APR 63

UFG 2678

APPR$- 3

SOURLE: PROMINENT INDEPENUENT EXILE LEAUER (L) FROM ANTONIO

CUESTA DEL YALLE AND RAMON FONT SAUSELL.

IN COMMENT

NO DISDEMINATE DE TUR AITIENED

TO PORTO!: 6F T'" "! "" NASDIEN

MADE OUTEIDE THE ACHICA PENDIO

PERORAGE MY TRE ACTION CATE

ROUTING

RID/AN

RIDIUTS

INTIIAL

IMDCS

PRECEDENCE

BOUTINI "

A PRIORITY "

R

BELLASING O

DATE DISTABUTED.

BASED ON,

HALOGOROT

SECRET

SURE MOD DIONAN

DeCLASSIRICATION

•REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFISI IS PROMINITED.

14-198-23

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MeEr 29 166.43

2

THIS AINFORMATION REPORT IFLECRAMI

CENTRAI INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

'1o2o 800-09088 dame, 8.110 18. V.B.G Sore.

COXADENTIAL

(4458884698 8960

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

'SUAJECT

C

REPORT NO. TOCS

DATE DISTA,

• C

PRECIDINCE

DATE DI

11175

REFERENCES

IN

18237

PIACES

CAICACO,

APPRA AR

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION.

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPHAISAL OP CONTENT IS TENTATIVA

Y

. C

1. ON IL APPIL' THE SON OF JOSE MIRO CARDONA ASKED THAT

ANTONIO QUESTA DEL VALLE AND RAMON FONT SAUMELL OF COMANDOS

L VISIT JOSE MIRO CARDONA, BOTH CUESTA AND FONT TOLD MIROIS

SON THAT THEY THOUGHT MIRO WAS TO BLAME FOR THE PRESENT.

SAD STATE OF CUEAN EXILE AFFAIRS AND DID NOT WANT TO

SCE MIRO; MIRO'S SON INSISTED AND CUESTA AND FONT. ACCEDED.

?. CUESTA AND FONT ARE OF THE OPINION THAT MIRO WILL SHORTLY

WITHORAW FROM THE CONSEJO REVOLUCIONARIO CUBANO (CRC, CUBAN

REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL) THEY BELIEVE THAT HE MAY BE WAITING FOR

THE ANNIVERSARY OF •THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. (FIELO COMMENT.

IT VIAS ALSO REPORTED IHAI MIRO WOULO PROBABLY INSIST THAT IHE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

R

GROUP I

lar budad that onl

1 ONE

081

RAM

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM}

"7774

1Kg

ObSOLITA PAIVIOCE DITIONA.

(88620)

---

## Page 3

;.

FRIGATION

- DISSIMINATON CONTROLS

18237

TDCS

PAOS

COUNCIL ACCEPT HIS RESIGNATION, BUT WILL PROBABLY DELAY SUCH

ACTION UNTIL 18 APRIL AFTER HE HAS A CHANCE TO HEAR WHAT PRESIDENT

JOHN F KENNEDY WILL SAY AT HIS 17 APRIL PRESS CONFERENCE).

3O SOURCE COMMENT& THERE ARE SEVERAL COPIES OF MIRO'S 25

PAGE DOCUMENT "FLOATING AROUNO" THE WHOLE CRISIS OF THE CRE WILL.

SHORTLY COME TO A HEAD BECAUSE IT IS FELT BY MEMBERS OF THE CRE

THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES HAS NO PARTICULAR INTEREST

IN THE CRE. MUCH OF THE FUTURE ACTION AND PLANS OF THE CRE

WILL DEPEND ON WHETHER THEY WILL BE ABLE TO CONTINUE RECEIVINO •

FINANCIAL AID FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITEO STATES.

4. FIELO DISSEMS STATE (MIAMI).

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIACATION - DISSEMIMATION CONTIOLA

---

