104-10006-10243} me.

me Tamme oa

- BRASKO

AW

SECRET

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

BRANCH ROOM EXTENSION

ATE

RID CONTROL WO

DATE

Tuse [ROOM TNITIALS|

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

2

IRto/anatysis| or.

jRip/204 owes

‘Sus sect 70

BE CHECKED,

iv
ATOMYAKN, LM.

‘SURNAME

GIVEN NAMES

“SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA, ALIASES:

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation,
TS. affiliations, ete.)

ox, GP wenbership,

‘DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH

LUSSR

CITizENsHiP

Cc
I Gecsaga, USS.

RESULTS OF RI

1D/ INDEX CHECK

JNO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

COMMENTS

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

01_ CONSOLIDATION.

©) vse gummed label; type or print all
entries,

@)_ upon receipt of index card reproductions
draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not vant.

Bait (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

@)

1. Return this form with the card repro-
ductions, also return pertinent documents,
aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on
the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the
consolidation (i.e., copy or cross reference
to be placed in the 201 file), green D the
corresponding card and check (a) or (b)
below:

or less informative than retained in-
formation; information of no CS value.

(>) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when cara in-
cludes all facts contained in the

document.

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG
are in RID/ARD, and those that meet
indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are
carded in the CS Main Index. If you
believe there could be additional in-
forwation of value in these records,
you mist request an Archives Index

search.

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFIOD,

(a) (1 Consolidate into
201-
(b) Open 201 file on subject.
RESTRICTION (IF any) SRF
OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OF STATIONS FICE, TS

Note 2. Information concerning foreign
public personalities (except mili-
tary) may be available in BR/OCR

XT99T +



3153T4

