# 104-10193-10178

## Page 1

104-10193-10178

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Taint

WH/4IPH

8977

2 0GT0B5R- 1961

JMHAVE

DIRECTOR

CONT: BELL 10

INFO:

COP, ADDP/A, b4 5, S/6 2

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

Tü, 53207

INFO

CITE DIR

PRIORITY HAVE

15354

JHIP

1. ANDRES ZARAS "JUSTO", LUIS SANCHEZ "PICOLINO", ANTO

TONY NUR "FONTO OF UR ARD ANGET. BOSS "GUILIN OF MRAC LET

HQS P.M. 29 SENT FOR HAVE.

2. JUDO US ORONERIN AND DEFINITE LEADER OF CAOUT

I'CLUDILIG ROSS AND HIS NERG, JUSTO MADE GOOD LAPRISSIOS AND

SEEMED SINCERI, CAPABLE AND TO INCH WEAT HE HAS ATTIR AND WHERE

TiE WAG ESTIC.

ALTICUC! COME OF TAY OTHIRS GERE TRYING TO POLITIC

JUSTO SRINED TO BE ILTEUNCOD OLY IN A UNIFIRD RESISTANCS KITORI.

IT IS BILIZVED THESE PEOPLE ARE REAMY NO DO BUSINESS AND CAM

8:01 LY FACILITATE NICOUT-L'S 8790253. IT HAS FINALLY ADMITTED

T'AT ROSS AND MALCOS WILLIANS WERE ACTUALLY ROTHING MORE FRAN

ANJ

EXTRA VOTES. FOR 1EX UN. JUSTO FEELS HE NAN THE COOFERATION OF

JUNCO OS PEE NOC AND MILL WORK MITH THE "EUYIRO"-"ANTOUTO" MR?

COMPLEX NOT MARCIS VILLIANS) AND "OHAR" "PSANTY" OF THE MaR.

SOORDIMATIMO OPRICISI

SERIE

REPIODUCTION BY OTRiCA THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSISIES MESSAGE

FOURNG

DATE.

10

DIRECTOR

INFO :

TO

INFO

DEMEANED

ROUTINE

CITE DIM

OUT 53207

15354

-2-

3. THEY ASKRO IT THEY HAD TO GO THROGGE AMDENDI-, AND

WERE TOLD TET COULD BEAT BLABCTLY SITH

PACES NUMBKE OF

JUSTO: POR CONTACT IS 5803-1306, MAI DE ROSS IS HI-3-7097.

SOUZYER, LEAVE BESCRETICH HAVE iSE aTWAS.

A. ID CURITATIS WERE NAD.. TITY VERE ASERO TO COOPERATE

VITE AMAUD-I TO GES ALGE HITE: LI AND USE HMM BUT MOX MIGHT ALM

AND AFTER MAXIND TILS ATTENP IF THEY STILL COULD LUT GET ALONG

WIIN ANU? WE WOULD NOT DETY SUPPORT.

5. THAT ASKSE ABOUS TRACHING AND MARE TOLD THAT COULD BS

RASTLSTO 5T|

03. ALOES VIS AiL OTHER BUSINESS.

6. TARY ALL INDICATED A FILLINCHEES TO RETURN TO CURA DI

WE WENS GOLEG TO SUPREAT THAT? SITORI, GIE TILY FISTRED TIKIE OWN

W/T CRANEI, HOPIRE EVINTUALLY TO PRODUCE INTURIAL UNIFICATTCN

OF ALL DORAGHED

6EU0P8.

(AND OF MESSAGE)

BRUTABONE ORFIGEN

SOQ10IA1M001'

8-55-30501

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TUN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

1a. T:

OFFICE

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

CATE

FROM.

CONF

INFO:

DIRECTOR

tO

INFO

CITE DIE

DEFERRID

#OUTINE

OUT 53207

15354

C/rE/4/PM

Politia

RAFORD W. HERBERI

BARASINO OPDIGGE

Đ TICA

55C3 81

REPRODUTTICHI BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Neil in

R. I. DAVIS

17 0

Coon dis

---

## Page 4

https://asc-app-01:7002/jfk/boxes/JFK64-28/coversheets

SECRET

DOCUMENT

Box Number:

JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10193-10179

CADRE Ref ID: C00562352

Pub Date:

10/01/1961

Pages:

1

C00562352

104-10193-10179

SECRET

92 of 105

1/12/2015 1:54 PM

---

## Page 5

1615

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

UNIT :

. EXT:

DATE :

DG/MH/4

2823

1 Oct 1961

10 :

JHAVE. JIBAR KOLASO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO.

BELL 10

DOP, COP, ADOP/A, WH 5, O6 6, s/C 2

INFO

TOPA

10c7 61 17 087

DEFERRESIG CEN

ROUTINE

OUT 52934

0UT52234

OPIA MAVE

BARR KORA

CITE DIR

- (IN 38097)

1o AFTER CONSID RINO ALL FACTORS INCLUDING OUR CONTINUED DESIRE, TO ASSIST

THE MER, TO SUPPORT SHE SUSAN ANN AND FEE DITREPID CRED AS REQUESTED BY DR.

MIRO CARDONA, AND SO REVIVS TUS SPIRIT CE RESISTANCE IN HARANA, IT IS REGRETTED

THAT RIZ OP HUST BE DISAPPROVD.

2, THE APPAREST NECESSITY FOR THIS TYPE CE DARING OP INTO THIS LOCATICH

TO EXTRICATE A BI? LEADS, OICE AGATH ILLUSTRATES THE I PERATIVE NEED POR INTERNAL

GROUFS TO ORGANIZE DURE RAS LIHES, SECURE CONSUNICATIONS LINES AND A RESPONSIBLE.

CELL, TYPS INTERNAL ORGANIZATION. THE CONTINUED FLIGHT F LEADERS 8O PEPRIME

FURTHEE AGGRAVATES THE DEARTH OF INTERNAL LEADERSHIP.

3. HOS IS TÚLLI APPUBCIATIVE CE SAUZIS DESIRE TO ACTIVELI SUPFORT AND EXPLOIT

EVERY UPPORTUNITY WHICH NIGET DENIGRATE THE CASTRO REGIME.

IND CE HESSAGE

WH Caments flequented suthority to mount an exfiltration operation.

BI DIRECTICH:

:%..

SOT RITE HERDETICAENE

D.

WH/B/PH -B. Moore (telecon)

C/Na/Oga - J. Interlino (telecon):

COOBOINARINO

OOFICERS

SEBRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Hostin

TING ORFICER

Copy No.

3/BV

---

