04-0167 10238

RETURN To cy,
Background Use oi 7
0 Not Reproduce ;

onF oO

euseresnon

SECRET

. etdaes mmenmaomeetet eare mae onoee

STAFF es PIRECTOR
con: y Ap = ro: rus /, sth, 23d
oPfyir
by -23
a ¥
fFdoar 1H
REFS 30ba4 [IN 39422914

Ae FOLLOYING, BASED ON DBD-83232. 2S NOV 74, MAY BE

2 apa

PASSEDEFOBARGAIN on Snarcos DIAZ LANZ WHO HAS NOT REQUESTED!
NATURALIZATION. DO NOT ATTRIBUTE FBI-¥
MARCOS DIAZ LANZ WAS INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE CUBAN AIR
FORCE UHO DEFECTED FROM THE FIDEL CASTRO REGIME IN 4959 WHEN IT
BECANE EVIDENT THAT CASTRO WAS LEANING TOWARDS COMMUNISA.
SINCE 2959 HE HAS BEEN LIVING IN THE UNITED STATES. MOSTLY Es \
* MIAMI: FLORIDA.¥
DURING THE 3960'S DIAZ WAS KNOWN AS AN ANTI-CONMUNIST
CRUSADER AND GAVE SPEECHES THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES i
ATTACKING THE CASTRO REGINE IN CUBAy AS WELL AS COMMUNISM IN |
GENERAL. FOR A NUNGER OF YEARS HE HAS BEEN WORKING FULL TINE {
IN THE CONSTRUCTION. CONPANY OF HIS HALF BROTHER SERGIO BRULL /
AND HAS SETTLED DOWN TO THE TASK OF EARNING A LIVING. He Is |
“A PROFESSIONAL SPEECHNAKER. FOR A WHILE HE WAS A PREACHER IN :

Bata: i : .
‘ORG st .
“Ont He
. oon svieaa ‘20/- 97h
: 10 De ¢ od:
Fer E esse waren Aurrooucnos 8y GEER Pe OP SEAS pPTEE 1s ProwuarreD as ‘POET

REVIEWED! @Y FBWJFK TASK FORCE t.
on 2IM9§ had i
B LEASE IN FULL
C1 RELEASE IN-PART
Cl TOTAL ‘DENIAL: a a



foe .
So igh} -—_ $+
maton LC
onr a E o o a o oO o rs 2
Ladi
SECRET
ct Ee) ll eee
STAFF DIRECTOR of 4
come: Bro: mu 7 4 beet orssem OYs 5
44192 0 mcnmme PER
O eons #£ n
THE GEM BAPTIST CHURCH. SINCE THE CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS IN
RIAMI IS VERY SLOW AT THIS TINE IT IS POSSIBLE DIAZ PLANS TO
SUPPLEMENT HIS INCOME BY GIVING TALKS ON THE COMMUNIST SItu- - inant
ATION IN LATIN AHERICA- IF HE IS INVOLVEB IN POLITICS AT ALLs :
IT IS ONLY IN A MINOR WAY-¥
@- FILE! 203-25973b- E€2s INPDET.n : \
EI
$
Ee tiyay :
ave

cart CEMBER 2974, - a cee a

marr AO_DECENBER R974 {

unre 3 q rs
{ e

ty bbOV/3009 3 He i
ja Gi 0 baleas RA (Linslade Aft) lara i i

antes neenooe “Iu sy oTnteTnay Touine once 9 oMETED «6g 2) IMPOET
CL BY: 9075u7

i

—-

