# 104-10227-10180

## Page 1

104-10227-10180

PIge

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-RuE-I

11.. 80..

1-124-25/2

POUTINO

UNii

DAIS

DC/WH/4

2823

13 SEP 61.

15₽0

TO

IMWAVE

FROMA:

DIRECTOR

He find (nint one)

E SEP ST

CONE.

D

DELL 10

Al Tendraing intart one:

STE CEN

INFO.

DDP, COP, ADOP/A, WH 5, S/6 Am:

PRITY WAVE

CITe OI8

DEPERRED

ROUTINe

QUT97336

12368

JMZIP

1, PER KARMANY CROZIER TELEÇON 16 SEPT AFTER HION LEVEL

ODYOKE CONSIDERATION DECISION REACHED AND AMAUD-I INFORMED

THAT RESPONSIBILITY FOR ORQANIZATION AND PLANS FOR EXILE CUBAN

JURISTS AND LAWYIRS WILL BE AMDUD'S. IT FURTHER STATED THAT

IN ADDITION TO AMAUD'S FUTURE FUNDINO "SALARIES" OF EXITING

ALABAU ORCANIZATION, FIVE THOUSAAD DO LARA PIA MONTH WOULD

BE PASSED TO AMBUD 1 O& HIS DISIONES RETROACTIVE TO I AUGUST

TO SOLVE PRESSING ECON PROBLEM OF ANJUD-L'S FACTION OF LAWYERS

TO VHOM HE HAS LONG OUTSTANDINO COMMITMENT TO ABBIT. WAVE

AUTHORIZED PASS JIVZ. THOUBAND FOR ACQUIT AND TIVE THOUSAND

FOR SIPTEMBER FOR SUPPORT OF LATTER GIO UP, AUBJIGT HOS

APPROVAL OF

CHAANEL®

2. IT WAS EMPHASIZED TO AMBUD I THAT KUBARK HAD PLANNED

CUT NOT INGREASE NUMEE& OF. "HALARED" JURITS AND LAWYER DUT

WOULD AGREE THIS TEMPORARY INCREASE KEEPING IN MIND THIS NOT

A "RELET ORDANGATION" BUT ONE WHICH MUST DO CONSTRUCTIVE

-E-C-R-L-T

AUIMINPIGATINO ORDIC

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSLINO OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

12 1389 Loo

(33)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

UNS:

t!!

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-I

POUTINO

lE Filing (chack ore)

ia CH Herora Valoo, Irstrog

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONFI

INFO,

8615: Tradeaned tolerk onet:

DEFERREO

ROUTINE

Blmature:

OUT 97836

INFO

CITE DIR

12368

WORLi OR BE DISSOLVED. IN ANY CASE MANY ON AMBUD-L'S LIST SHOULD

SEEK PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT OR APPLY TO HEW. IT TURTHER IMPHASIZED

TO ARAGON THAT TRANSTER OF RISPONSIBILITY MUST BI ACHIVED

HARMONIOUSLY AND WITHOUT ADVERSE PRESS REACTION OR SUPPORT

THIS WORK MUST BE WITHDRAWN.

3. FUTURE ACTIVITIES, PLANS AND BUDOETTOR JUSTO AND

LAWSERS SHOULD BI DISCUSID BY AMAUD WITH WEN WHO WILL AE

PLACED IN CONTACT WITH AMBUD I BEFORE OCT AND WHO WILLACT

AS DAY TO DAY CHANNEL TO KUBARK AND ODYONE. IT MADE CLEAR TO

AMBUD-¡ THIS TRANSTER NOT A PRECEDINT AND HIS DEMAND SON NES-

PONSIBILITY AS EXCLUSIVE CHANNEL TO DRI AND FORD SPECIICALLY

REJECTED. HE ADVISED HOWEVER KUBARK WOULD WELCOME THRU IDEN

ANY PROPOSALS IN STUDINT AND LABOR FIELDS AND CROS I COOPERATION

CLEARLY DESIRABLE IN COMBINED EFTORT WHICH WOULD NOPIFULLY

IN TIME TEND UNITY CUBAN ANTI CASTRO ELIMENTA OVER COURSE OF

NEXT YEAR, AFTER DISQUISION THIS SPECIFIC POINT WITH NOS REPS,

AMBUD -I AGREED THAT ATTEMPTS TO FORCE DRE AND FORD INTO CRE

BRAUMANNA ALLL

AVININPICAVINO CODIGO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OPPICE IS PROHIBITED.

Capy No.

P01 1389 Va

629)

---

## Page 3

14-00000

041G:

LINAT

17:

DALE

10

FROM.

CONF,

INFO,

10

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-L-C-R-E-'T

ROUTINO

DIRECTOR

11E Fline (chret sno):

No Co Hruvid Value, Introg.

H8 Die shis ropy as indimend

•jeans) Cury Elegat Indicated

* Ise

None requipal

DEFERRED

HOUTINE

Blanarure: +

OUT 98736

INFO

CITA DIR

- 12368

TUR" CONTROL OF FUNDS LIKELY IN LONG RUN TO PROVE COUNTER

SHODUCTIVE, ALTHO HOPEFULLY HE WOULD INDIAVOR OIVE POLITICAL.

GULANCE TO LEADERS.

END OF MESSAOK

Mel crit.

1 All, it"

J. Jc.

KING. EVID

DINO

Mcerhrdl.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OPPICE IS PROMIBITED.

AVIMANTICATIMO @DUCA

Copy No.

rous 1389

PARVIOUS

(23)

cLinta dan. 1001-090 80: 005600

---

