# 104-10167-10117

## Page 1

104-10167-10117

A SECRET

Cita for

Mares big; Lang file

9 September 1959

1O2IDRLIDIM FO? THE RECORD

SUBNCIS Pedro DINZ LaTs, Marcos DIAZ LaID, RIcardo de lA L011

1o

Balchhardt phoned on the morning of 8 lagust to report

that he had discussed proposed activition vith the tree individ

unle semed abore on the night of 7 siguat. iney decline to be

restrictod to propaganda against the cormntato asd vant to over-

throw Castro.

Reichhardt soments that at leas; they are cocost

In their refusal to nie comitrants to linit their activitles.

They sald 1t 18 already lato for actlon to start agalnat Castro.

They vant to start a propagands radio prograa against Castro sa

the firat stop in an ovurall progran to oast hir. They clai

thst 111114= Alasarder MORGA and OutlerTes Manoyo are ready to

revalt agalast castro.

2o Reichhardt fears that subjects naj: go off half cocked

became they lock direction and the ability to organise thair ac

Eivities.

D3 IA LORIK told Reichhardt that be anderstands the is

Goverment's position, and agreed they would keep in contact be

cause the Coverment sight bare a different attitude "next sonti."

3o Ratchhardt suggests un not behind the acenes to bring

these peopie rogether with sose who have naney sach as Julio. LOBO,

CADESAS, MILOS, and/Os PICUraBS. Relehhardt expects that relallam

will remain good aod that ve vlil get sone information on toir ae,

tin1tles, but sot all..

HE/3/40

Distribution:

1 - Balchbarde Carversations

¿ = 10 Chron

1 - FITCOS DIAZ ELIO

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1/SR

---

