104~10422-10425)

CiASSIFIED MESSAGE ;
sui SECRET

ROUTING

TO 4 DIRECTOR : 7
FROM 4. OTTAWA aoe E
action, SAME 2 (WE/aC AND WH/3,yo0
0C1, 0/oC1, ODP, ADDP,
7

JED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1759-27 Nov 63)
C/SAS 2, VR» Dsen' S
RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

a a.

INFO.

SECRET arava ert De. SENSI Ts rhs 9235
PRIORITY Di CITE OTta 1277s4¢rd ¥. —— .
XAT KEYWAY JASMINE R.0. #1 _CI/tA

REF DIR 85133, PARA3* — ote T. Gite

1 reas coordinate
1. REVIEW CURRENT JASIME INDICAEDS:cENJQBAL REACTION OF CUBAN
AMBASSADOR CRUZ AND HIS STAFF TO REPORT OF ASSASSINATION PRESIDENT

'AS ONE OF HAPPY DELIGHT. AFTER FURTHER INFO WAS RECEIVED
NDICATING THAT OSWALD HAD CONNECTIONS WITH FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA
GOMMITTEE THERE WAS SOME APPREHENSION CONCERNING POSSISLE U.S.
REACTION. :
2. SPEECH OF CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO UN INDICATED TO AMBASSADOR CRUZ i
THAT HE AND HIS STAFF MIGHT BE EXPECTED ADOPT MORE SOMBER ATTITUDE “
IN PYBLIC. SOME TIME LATER AMBASSADOR CRUZ RECEIVED CABLE, APPARENTLY
SIGHED"ROA", WHICH ORDERED AMBASSADOR AND HIS STAFF TO GOVERN THEIR
ACTIONS BY OFFICIAL ATTITUDE OF GOVT TO WHICH THEY ACCREDITED.
CRUZ THEREUPON ISSUED INSTRUCTIONS TO HIS STAFF AND TO CUBAN
| CONSULATES AND TRADE OFFICE TORONTO AND MONTREAL TO “CEASE LOOKING
HAPPY IN PUBLIC". oe 2E4 242
3. WHEN IT WAS ANNOUNCED IN CANADA THAT AN OFFICIAL REQUIEM HIGH
MASS WOULD BE HELD, CRUZ, DECIDED THAT ON BASIS HIS INSTRUCTIONS

FROM HAVANA HE WOULD HAVE TO ATTEND’ ALTHOUGH HE HADE T CLEAR THAT HE
Disee-s = 2s PSS]
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 7 sl

E__IMPDET CL eye Sci

gv

for FOIA Review on APR p76

Document Number

Copy No,



13-0000,

Number;
Egr stbrilo
CEAS:

WOULD NOTD0 SO IF HE HAD ANY PERSONAL CHOICE IN THE MATTER. CRUZ i
ORDERED OTHER MEMBERS HIS STAFF NOT TO TAKE PART IN OFFICIAL MASS e
OR ANY PRIVATE CEREMONIES OF MQURNING.
+4. THIS INFO RCVD ORALLY FROM SMACQUIRE ON BASIS QUICK REVIEW |
JASMINE AND BELIEVED ESSENTIALLY ACCURATE. sMaBOvES WILL PROVIDE |
WRITTEN REPORT IN DUE COURSE. : i
5S. STATION HAS CONFIRMED THAT AMBASSADOR CRUZ DID ATTEND REQUIEM "

MASS AS OFFICIAL REP OF HIS GOVT.
SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *Because of obvious significance any scrap of information
which bears on President's assassination, desire stations screen carefully all

since 22 November 1963 for comments and cable any significant
formation so obtained. :

Eee Heaney ee
