# 104-10147-10432

## Page 1

104-10147-10432

SECRET SENSITIVE

I UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY.

E CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional

interview

With Staff of

the House Select

Committee on Assassinations

PHSCA)

(S)

FROM

DD/ OT

1025 Cotc

'EXTENSIO!

3185

DATES

OLCAH 78-53 46

16 October 197

TOiN

(Ome

OFFICER'

INITIALS

COMMENTS

o whom

Dr

SECRET

RECEIVED

Mrs Scott Breckinridge

NOLC

Rm 605317 Hqs

HSCA

10

11.

12.

13

14.

15.

21791

FORM

3-62.

•O USE PREVIOU

DITION

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET/SENSITIVE

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

16 October 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

Edward Ryan

Deputy Director for Operations Training

SUBJECT:

Interview With Staff of the House Select

Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

(S)

1. (S) On 16 October 1978, at the request of

Mr. Scott Breckinridge, I met with Messrs. Robert Blakey

and

Gary Cornwell of the staff of the HSCA. Mr. Blakey

said that he had some questions for me that his staff

had wanted him to ask.

2.

(S) Mr. Blakey wanted me to explain the functions

of Division D, which I did in general terms, identifying

liaison with foreign SIGINT services,

procurement, and covert intercept as

cryptographic

missions.

its three principle

Mr. Blakey seemed confused as to the relationship

between the CI Staff and Division D, particularly with

respect to a possible duplication in

their functions.

He

specifically asked me what CI/SIG was. I said I had not

heard

that designation, but presumably the "SIG" stood

for SIGINT, and I went on to explain the complementary

• roles

of the CI Staff and Division D in the investigation of

illegal agents using radios.

3.

(S) Mr. Blakey said that Division D had opened a

file on Lee Harvey Oswald, and observed that he couldn't

see how the functions of Division D, as I'd described them,

I said I was not aware that Division D

could them,

a thing, and that the only reason I could

imagine for such an action would be if Oswald had been

seeking employment as an intercept operator, but even in.

that case, the Office of Communications, rather thar

• Division D, would have held the file, since all intercept

personnel at that time were in that Office. Mr. Blakey

asked whether the CI Staff would have had a file on Oswald,

and I said only if he were suspected of working for a hostile

intelligence service.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

E2 IMPDAT

CL BY 050473

---

## Page 3

SECRET/SENSITIVE

SUBJECT: Interview With Staff of the House Select

Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) (S)

4.

(S) Mr. Blakey observed that every organization

has its tornal, on-paper structure, but it also has a

determines how the ructure, which is the one that really

organization works.

He can understand

CIA's formal organization, but the second one is more

difficult for him to comprehend. Speaking of Bill Harvey;

he asked whether I knew him. I

This led

to a discussion

about how it could have happened that Harvey,

as Chief, Division D, could have been engaged in operationa.

activity which seemed to have nothing to do with Division D's

responsibilities, as a service element of CIA. I said that

when I came into the Agency in 1948, Harvey was already a

that in subsequent years

he had a very close relationship with Mr. Helms, and if the

latter had given Harvey some special assignment, Harvey could

easily have carried

it out in

a compartmented

way alongside

his regular duties.

I pointed out that since Division D

an

especially compartmented activity. Mr. Blakey wanted

to know how Harvey could have gotten personnel and funds

to carry out his assignment. I said he would probably

borrow the personnel in the name of the Director, and he

would get his funds in the regulation manner, probably from

an account under the Director's control.

But he might not

need either: he might use people who would simply handle

his needs in addition to their regular assignments.

5.

(S) Mr. Blakey asked me if I knew who QJWIN was.

I said I of course knew the crypt from its appearance in

the Rockefeller Commission Report, and that "QJ" was a

digraph for a

I Station source, agent or operation

and I knew QJWIN was aL

Mr. Blakey did not

pursue the question.

(S) Mr. Blakey asked what kind of files Division D

kept, and

I said they were all devoted to the operational

activities of the Division:

that, except for our own

personnel, there were no files on

individuals. Mr. Cornwell

asked if Harvey had had any personal files and I said that

if he had, he had not left them behind in Division D, and 1

doubted very much if he had left any behind when he left the

Agency. The HSCA staffers had no further questions.

Edward Ryai

SECRET/SENSITIVE

---

