# 104-10183-10259

## Page 1

104-10183-10259

SE WAISA $24-750

1g Detoöer 1864

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SISVORANDLI

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

AS1M1UO/1 Ceration

06.

Meeting with

Saturday,

10 Sctobes 1684

Memorandus, cated 19 Cctober 1064: 06

corcerning brieflag.

: lo

Following the meeting described in the reference;

requesied a separate lecting watch was held

on Saturday, 10 vetober 1034.

was presert at the meeting.

Duriog the meeting the matters covered on the

prevlous day. with the

Twere screwed and the

specific action to be taxen was Indicated with agreecent on

the following points:

24

[pecial trestmant should ba siren to the

706

and one (anu) (Lau) wrom

O6 to will be able to idely ll shows a photgrent. Erory

eifort should be made to identlly the last-named person

and then to recruit all four of them. Meanwhile, all

Information araiiable concerning them should bo

collected and furnished to the

for forwarding16-2

to ileadjuarters. The object in each of these cases

should be to achieve contacts with them for the perpose

of ellecting recruitmerts. I reguired, we will have

a Copsa who knows the Individuals and whom they

bollere to be a Cutan Litelligence officer go to

: 16-20

Jios the purpose of coctacting them usder

controlled conditions which will perat us to montor

the curversation during the fle that he poees ni

still active la Cuban Intelligence. Following thie,

the recrulument attempt would be made in each caso

possibly by one al cur oldieers ll'the circumstasces

03, 16-2

---

## Page 2

at tho time indicate that this procedure would be

most likely to be a euccess

Without wiiting for the outcome ot etlort to

recruit the four individuals described above, the

• 24

should bend evory effort

to locate all those individuals (possibly an many

as 2C0) who have received guerrilla warfare training

In Cuba, and to arrest them, Maximum publicity

should be given to te arrests once they have been

questloned. Hopefully declarations will be mado

Ny some of them which will assist in effective

propajandi use of thelr arrest and their

involvement in subversion on behal of tre ture

governmert. They should be intervlawed separ

ately ard, if possible, some with greater potentia.

should be doubled so that they may serve to keep

us informed of plans for subversion In the future.

C. • The

should keep us advised at

every stage of the progress made in the cases so

that we may lend assistance when appropriate.

3.

sald that he understood the

importance of the care ara would do his utmost to follow

through in ling with the action proposed above.. He said that

although he does not have a largo organization, it l socure and

Is capable of collecting Information and of arranging for

the arrests and interrogation.

4.

discussed three other cases

(the

cason he case ol

and th

ald that ful

case of

details corcerning the

had been seut to

Headquarters. 24 Tats is the same careurhich according to

the L

involved. al

lacting on

behalf of the

said that this Individual is still in jail Inl

The

Icases are beiny made the subjects of

separate memoranda.

Harold F. Ewenson

Chief, WU/SA/CI

---

