# 104-10170-10158

## Page 1

104-10170-10158

DISPATCH

Chief of Stutlon,

SÄCKET

10-U

Ottara

PAROLE ALE MENDE

DO ING RICUSE

+SOM

•Chie

uropoan Division

WICHOF R W

TUB ISCT

KEYWAY/Garrison Investigation of Kenneuy Assausination:

Donald P. NORTON

AETION RICURiO. RIFERENCES

Attached: (U.S.C.) for your information is a copy of

together

with coples of clipplaga from

Vancouver and Victorla neuspapers, concerning subject.

2. As indicated io the momorandum,

coples

of the clips

wore boius proviced tolthe babassyd so please note the caveat

In tho Inst scotence of the memo. 110

3. Thero ure no Heuüquarters traces on Subject; his

allegations that NOFACT employe, him are false. You may pass

the

foregoing

sentence to Che Embassyl

If you are

queried;

subject.

but you should nos/loitlate any discussion of tals

JANE AD CRIFFITS

Attachnents: (U.s.C.)

menorandum

copies of clippings

Distribution:

2 - Ottawa

160-10

RETURNTO CIA

Background Jse Only

, Do Not Reproduce

/

CROSS REFERENCE TO

33 COPY

M.- RID

• Files

1

- DC/CI/R&:A

2

. - E/BC/C

S//RA,

DISFATCH STALES

AND SUMBER

OCOM-6315

CLASSIFICATICA

SECRET

E BC /Canada

OFFICER

James

OFFRE TWAR

Fait

VC/CI/R&A

Iec-300-12

(DAE! AUG 1967

HOS FRE NUMBER

100 - 301-12

ORIGIRATING

Howley

dd

(17 jug 67) 6333

COCRONLATING

Jtowl...

DEST

ABSTRACT

RELEAS: FO

RACETRECI"

placedy

---

## Page 2

L UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT, (Optionaly

FROMe:

NTERNAL

Le USE ONEY

CO... IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NO.

GATE

SECRET

DEP

Donovan E. Pratt

DC/CI/R&A

TOi (Offear designation, rom member, end

c/E/BC/C

4C20.

6663

DAN

RECEIVED POMMANDED

OFFICER'S:

INTIALS:

1 4 AUG 1967

N.

BAUG

No action por ani Frat.

des pant i Clipping

whisk identia

Suagent as Us ilyan

there, reall fund

wat there is state 27

up there.

16:Imn firepoing

this matter. if

127,16-6

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

610 MON

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

7/02

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

1 4 AUG 1967

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT

: Garrison Investigation of

Kennedy Assassination:

Donald P. (or T.) NORTON

1. On 6 August 1967 we were informed that the Vancouver

(Canadia) Sun was running or soon would run an intervlew with one

Donald P. (or T.) NORTON, 35 years old, who had made the

following claims.

That he was a CIA man and that in 1958 he

delivered $150,000 to David FERRIE for transfer

to Cuba. (Comment: David W. FERME, now dead,

was a pilot living in New Orleans. District Attorney

James C. Garrison has claimed that FERRIE was

one of a small group of conspirators who master-

minded the assassination of President Kennedy.

Allegations that CIA employed FERRIE have appeared

Thorough checks have shown that there

was no association between FERRIE and this Agency.)

b. That in 1962 Clay SHAW gave NORTON an

ailtache case containing $50, 000 which NORTON de-

livered to one Harvey Lee in Monterrey, Mexico.

(Comment: There is no evidence that Lee Harvey

Oswald was in Mesco in 1962. There is no evidence,

except the unsupported word of a criminal and drug

acdict, that Clay SHAW knew Oswald. SHAW is the

orily person indicted by Garrison to date on the charge

of conspiring to kill President Kennedy.)

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

co'

That NORTON received $500 a month pay

from CIA and that he also received bonuses of $5,000

for the action described in sub-paragraph a, above, and

$2, 500 for that described in sub-paragraph bo

That NORTON reported to an unidentified oll

company official in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

That NORTON lost his CIA job in November

1966 and was advised to settle down in Calgary.

Efforts are under way to obtain a copy of the edition of the

Vancouver Sun containing the article herein described. However,

C/E/BC/C is also requested to ask

to try to get a

copy for us, either independently or through liaison. 1o-6

3. All pertinent Agency records have been checked.

no record of a Donald P. NORTON or Donald T. NORTON.

also no record of a Donald NORTON who matches any of the foregoing

Information.

4. The C/E/BC/C is also requested to obtain avallable informa-

tion from liaison regarding NORTON's general character and reputation

for veracity. Because District Attorney Garrison has made unfounded

charges that CIA and the FBl are interfering in his investigation in New

Orleans, Inquirtes to liaison should be low-key. It is requested that no

reference be made to Garrison or his investigation. It is suggested that

the only reason given for our interest be that NORTON has made false

allegations that ClA employed him.

5. It la requested that a check be run in the files of WH/COG to

see whether Subject appears therein.

Enoren 2. Phalt

Donovan E. Pratt

DC/CI/ REA

SECRET

---

## Page 5

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT,, (Ophoneli

FROM

STERNAL

USE ONLY

IS COA.. 'ENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Garrison/Warren Comission

SECRET

Joseph C. Goodvin

Annistant to the Director

•TO: (Omire designation, room number, on

britie).

(PORWARDIO

CI/NDP (Mr. Pratt)

2 C IT

AUG 108%

401/ R+A

3.

9 AUG 1967

De/C/A+A

gAUG 1907

EXTENSION

7676

DEFICER'S

INITIALS

ма

Dare 9. August 1961

rs: Jake called the on

10.

81.

12.

13.

14.

83.

FORM

3-08

610 "s ronous

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

she wall try to get thi

library or through Does,

tic Antact Irvice.

D'ee have Paul resse

only ens tracka.

merso to the Canadian

Duct caking for Facei

from the bion

24

Hire's

little doubt

ties, a mendacio

or a mendacious

chatre, it wrin

set.

sites ver Facts ans

i, I'll asth the F13%.

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

