104-10073-10042|

‘Gpocily Air or Sea Pouch)

TO Chief, iD {g-22 pave __22 ‘January 1957

' MOM Chief of Station,{ensgua]

Mme { GENERAL Sperationt i
SUBIECT | spromic  (ERPTO“AN
Oz
h

Forwarded uncer separate cover .is copy of e report which RANSXILL
wrote BP on ee

2. Cato: SANIA tolé the “opaciD oniee “that he thought RASKILL had done
a cag jcb here.

t

Pa ral

Enclosures a ‘
1. As stated above, USC 2. 7 f :

iA
: ai

22 January 1957 & ek ground Use
Distribution:

3 = Headquarters w/l encl. usc’ a
2 - Piles w/l,encl.

Poder) RPM re aD

at OFS


14-00000

>

SSC Om EUR Vr tty

e”DmDmDmr,hCmhmUm

SUBJECT: reani Gane. we!

: _ Subject seems to be confused as to the actual duties which he will
undertake while in Nicaragua, which is not unusual, when one considers that
it is necessary to make one's own jod after getting in general what the
government has in mind. He apparently is in the same position that the writer

. was on arriving, and spends most of his time waiting to see either the Pres-

are almost impossible to corner at any given moment.

ident or Col ASOMOZA, who, unless you know the ropes, and push people aside, ie

Subject ‘stated that he would: be working with this Office and would

“he in charge of the: Presidential- protection. group.—The firs t_he

wants to'take is to separate the Presidential force from the intelligence
end of the organization. He states that he would like this group to remain

a part: of the Office of National Security, but that it should operate
separately with a separate budget. This Office has as yet received no
ocmmunication from the powers that be that BARRY is assigned to this Office
or that his specific job is'Presidential protection, nor have the President__
or.Col..SOMOZA as much admitted that such a person exists in my presence.

- BARRY states that he had a talk with the President on his arrival
and that he approached the security problem from the following angle?

Since it can be assumed that no country in the Western Hemisphere can exist or
progress without the American dollar, and it is a cinch that the average

“businessman passing through Managua and_seeing the amount of military force

and weapons would never consider investing anything, the military has to-=~ ~~
be cut down, and a large plain-clothes security force must be trained.”
BARRY stated that the President agreed with this in Brincipa,

On 16 January 1957, the writer had the opertunity of talking with
the subject informatly over some drinks. The subject stated in effect as
follows: He. has a contract with the Government for six months, but that if

he doesn't get more cooperation than he has gotten to date, he is not

going to stay. That the security thing was secondary with him, and that he
and/Davidson (Irving) were “in” on a deal to build a hotel in Nicaragua,

and that they already had 80% subscription from a US firm. All that is necessary
will be 20% locally, which he believes will not be difficult to raise. He
stated that he was also connected indirectly with a real estate firm in
Washington who had-commissioned him to investigate the mortgage set-up

in Nicaragua with an eye to the building of low priced housing around Managua.
He stated that Clint Murchison would be here on Sunday to close negotiations
on a fertilizer plant to X8be built in N,caragua, under the supervision and
management of one HAUND, who is apparently in that line in El, Salvador.

( The Murchison mentioned above i§ KXX&X the son of the old man.)

The writer gets the impression that BARRY is. strictly out for the
buck, and.when he found that the Government already had plain-clothes
protection for the President, he was slightly at a loss as to what his job
was to be. He has not told‘we of any definite plans for improving Presidential

, security, except that he plans to ask the President to use motorcycles in

the convoy, and to purchase four convertable sedans with running-boardS ..  _
for transpottation of the bodyguard. = Sieeeeneee tate

r

