ie 1071-0001

Chict of Station, JUBAVE_ ZZ: os
OG PIC;Operational :
Allegations_on DRE Penetration by GOC Authorities

Se ae eet

FYt

1. The following ts a report submitted tn Jate June by >
AMCLATTER-1, Due to itn lack of detattn,.an attempt was mado to
get further information and/or corroboration, _
report’ dated Havana, 17 April’ 63, came. through|
eas ® recent arrival fyom-Cuba sho’ fe affil

wveitud Anticumunista Revetuctonar part of the GARCERAN
Loustituttonal Then tot the information from

7 the Uruguayan Embassy in
clved tt Froal na Ok
q roof the DRE Supply Sector undergr rs r anne)

w

avana and she ¢lalan

fe C yy

tol from Cuba wax wala to be ‘the Uragferan jiotinatje pouch}
- Sheree eae eee Fp at den

: 2. The roportn ntates that Ricarde “Oquendo” ALFONSO Villalva

(amall, thin, about 22 years old, sears. sido burns) who lives at

Aéapata betecen J4th and 16th Cird floor) 5. i vana ‘is chicf.of : the

mibitte poeta tha bine. Bie eifols name Ta Elna. “Oquendo” and &%
the DRE uid:

aoe De®

(hey Sndividual :naned “Moage”™ de:

ae
pating €t for Cuban authort tle

uo

J, JMMAVE traces on the above are an follows:

a, No rocurd of kicarde ALFONSO Villalva or his nom du
guerre, “Oquendo”, 4 :

b, Mo record of

= oe a “oO.

ee vingo” te the nom ie quorre. of dorge*urn ts Bringuter.
CE avanch te debrieting a confessed forrer collavorator with

pan guthorsties ebe han also named "Mynxo" as a Ged agent.

4,  Icentifying information an i
DPOW A May Al, Pinar del Rio. Subjoct ce

CU Branen,

prrer=ry ree eers

12 AUGUST ob het

DISTRINUTION ee
d= cmer, Sas - ‘

B/5R


+ DiePaTew SvWEGL AND RUWBER

poerrrr

(DISPATCH “SrCRer [wort .

: =
: —e oe ident ig 7
eS Mu sae 2, as ‘Une of the Uruguayan
into PUPRIME because’ of derogatory
1 a noted in 0G -
ro as Ing provincial

and Gancipal fron lee posts in the PSP in Lus Villas, Ciego de Avil,
Ranchuclo, San-Juan_and San Fernando de Camarones, Cuba. Other entries
under include UFG-02521, 12. March 63, “member of MRP in
Co: Milo,” and_in 201~312732, a Spanish: language PRQ on/Francisco oO
"Rene FRAGA Lomban} that! is a possible Commuifist.

CONTINUATION OF |

f. Ono card on,” aka Hector from-an AMWOO~1 report
dated June 1962 deseribed” m as Provincial Coordinator of .the. MRR
working in the H, Upman hie ae factory and residing on Justicia St.,
Luyano, Havana, 1 acces

END OF DISPATCH
bb 2
: C7 oun

formes imembsr oe Db

Cawstensoend in Cubed

‘8)6R |

ie : SeeeATION 7 PASE
$940 vat pseriove eoinon: SECRFT a) 2°
