# 104-10114-10064

## Page 1

104-1014-0064)

-SEGRET

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

22 March 1957

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Security Support Division

FROM

SUBJECT

: Chief, Investigations Branch

: C-25507

#112569

DDS/1&5

S5D

Pell

A.

A. 1a Dep

Ad & Trag.

: Cis i-r. BLD

=y Sus. Br..

Cin. Car Br.

Dask 18

Dei's S2-

Desk. CAB -

GIST:

The Subject, & Contract Agent, is now being considered for

career agent status and a provisional covert security approval

has been requested on an expedite basis to enable the subject to.

sign a contract as a career agent when he comes to the United

States in the latter part of March. Subject meets staff stan-

dards with the exception that his wife is a Costa Rican citizen.

Recommend issuance of provisional covert security approval with

full covert security approval to follow upon completion of ad-

ditional investigation.

are to oner won

DETAILS:

1. The Subject 15 a native born United States citizen, who

and later the Air Force until his discharge in 1945. After his dis-

charge he worked for a brief period in Sterling, Illinois until

December 1945, at which time he moved to the Panama Canal Zone. He

has remained

and from 1946 to 1949 served a period of re-inlistment in the Air

Force®

2. According to information supplied by. WH Division, Subject

became a Contract Agent in June 1949 and has served continuously in

that capacity up to the present time.

Subject's security file re-

1934 for use as an agent under Project AlL Ol Investigatior

manager ner Erase a the Subst not

nothing derogatory and National Agency Name Checks on the Subject

which were likewise non derogatory.

E mo. pered from

SEGRET

U SSD Files

---

## Page 2

14-00000

sEORET

3. Additional Investigation which can be performed includes

coverage at DeKalb and Sterling, Illinois to cover the Subject's.

residences in those communities prior to 1940 and for the brief

period during 1945, during which be was employed in Sterling,

Illinois. In addition, name checks and RI-I checks will be brought

up to date on the Subject and additional RI-K checks will be scheduled

on the Subject's spouse and her relatives who are apparently residing

In Costa Rica•

4. In a memorandum dated 8 March 1957 from Chief, WH DivisiOn,

It was stated that the Subject is currently assigned to Cuba where

he is utilized as Principal Agent on Project AML Ol ]This Pro-

ject 18 an FI operation designed to provide information on political

activities (Including Communist) In University circles in Havana,

Subject's activities in connection with this Project have been

concerned with Communist Party penetration and his current work in-

volves the handling of a net of agents providing coverage of Communist,

leftist, revolutionary and otbor political activities of Havana and

the student yout, circles in general in Cuba. Subject's use under

the requested covert security approval will be the same as in the past

according to Mr. Hugh MacCAULaI, Wil/3.

5. WH Division in its memorandun of 8 March 1957 was highly

laudatory in 1ts enshal,or the Subject and consider him to be an

outstanding employee with strong overall qualifications.

further pointed out that the Subject's spouse, a Costa Rican citizen,

has expressed a desire to acquire United States citizenship and she

plans to accompany her husband to the United States for this purpose

in the near future.

6. The reason for elevating the Subject to career agent status

1s to reward him with more permanent status andgreator benefits for

the outstanding service which he has performed in the past.

The Sub-

ject plans to be in Washington, D. C. at the end of March and 1t 18

desired to assign him to a contract as a career agent at that tire.

7. In view of the absence of any derogatory information con-

cerning the Subject, plus the fact that he is a native born United

States citizen and taking into account his past record of outstanding

service as a contract agent, it is felt that a provisional covert

security approval could be issued at this time to enable the Subject's

use as a career agent. The provisional covert security approval would

be Issued with the understanding that additional investigation was

being perforned and that a final decision regarding the issuance of

a full covert security approval would depend on the results of said

investigation.

The only area wherein Subject failed to meet staff

standards is in the fact that his wife and her relatives are citizens

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ol Condo Rica curanolo residing in this deanera

not

tris

Fic:

It go that

Ent Sagend sill not

enien. t till to porating undere

Recormend iscuince of provisional court ercuráty approral frr

¿ Carren Agart ar nor the enclosed romerendu: er

HALE

2á. Tara 1957

PENDING

---

