# 104-10221-10302

## Page 1

104-10221-10302

27

CLASSIRLEP MESSAGE

SSCHET

Bu C

FROM UNAVE

ACTION IN (COPY ISSUED TO IV & S6O AT: 2230, IT FEB DU)

INFO

D/DC1, DDP, APOP, 50D.4, CA 2, CA/PFG, CA/PROP, CNO 4, CI, CI/Ui'S, CI/IC 2.

CL/PS, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, RI/AN, WH/SA 12, W 8, VR, FILE, CS/RF.

SECRET 172332Z

FEB: 18 03122, 65

IN 82931

DIR INFO PACY LANT CARR CITE WAVE 8394 NE

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA:

AMICLATTER-1 FRON FRANK FIORINI. REF: UFG-6710. RID:

INDEX. FILEO 1723327

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM.

COUNTRY: CUBA.

SUBJ:, DECISION OF ORLANDO DOSCH AVILA TO USE A CUBAN PILOT ON

THE MIRR'S AIR STRIKE SCHEDULEO FOR 1Ó FEORUARY 1965

DO1: 17 FEBRUARY 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (1Y FEBRUARY 1965). UFG-6727

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN LIO NAS A RESIDENT OF HAGAÑA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTO IIO RECOGNIZE MIMAS A CHANNEL TO U.S.

INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATIÓN WAS OUTAINEO FROM FRANK FIORINI.

IW COMMENT:

.12

_M:L/REG

.8

SECASTE EN DUT

•M. DELA EY

TOCS DN-315/00576-65

: BOUTINE

BASED ON:

LIAISON: ::

UFG-5727

NP/NCLATTER/1

IDATE DISFRIOUTED

1S FEBRUARY 0533 265

SEIRIT

REPRODUCTION BY UTHER THAN ISSUIMÜ OFFICE IS FROIANTO

- +3

---

## Page 2

10.03. 3001

CONFIDENTIAL

When Filled lidd

(203

11056.124.8

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF

INFO.-

•17 FEBRAURY 1965

SUBJECT

DECISION OF ORLADO: BOSCH AVILA TO USE A CUBAN.

PILOT ON THE MINI'S AIR STRIKE SCHELULED FOR

16 FREPUARY 1965

• PLACE &

SOURCE

AND

DATE ACQ.. UNITED STATES, MINMI (17 FELTUARY 1965)

@POUTIME

TDCS DB-315/00576-65

DISTZ 18 FEBRUARY 1965

REF

IN 82931

FIELD REFORE NO... UFG-6721

APPRAISAL A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHU VIS. I RESIDENT OF MABANA FOR SEVERAL YESES.

THE SOURCE

HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGIZE MES AS A CHANEL TO U.G. MITELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION

WAS OBTAINED FROM FRANK, FIGRIIIL,

1.. AT ABOUT. 1:0O P.M, D 17 FEORUARY 1965 FRANK FIORINI SAID

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, LEADER DF THE MOMENTO INSURRLECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR) INSURRECTIONAL. MOVEMENT FOR

REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) AGREÇO TO LET THE CUBAN PILOT FLY THE.

MISSION SCHEDULED FOR I6 FEERUARY INSTEAD OF THE AMERICAN PILOT.

(FIELD COMMENT: THE SAME SOURCE REPORTEU THAT BOSCH HAD SCHEOULED

AN AIR STRIKE AGAINST THE CITY OF HABANA FOR 16 FEERUARY IN A Q-25.

AN AMERICAN, PILOT WAS TO FLY THE AIRCRAFT BUT VAS TO BE ACCOMPANIED

BY A CUBAN PILOT. THE CUBAI PILOT WAS BEEN TRAINING IM THE D-25

AND APPARENTLY IS EXPERIENCÃO ENCUCH TO MAKE THE TRIP TO CUUA

This material contsins informarion nilecting the Missinael Seefenie of the

United Sected within this encining

di the leginnage

Lisw's,

Tido 18. U.S.C. Seus. 793 and 291, the tranésicim or seveltin of which in any mender po in binauthorized persos

pruhibited by law.

CORJROLICO DELES

CONFIDENTIAL

STASE/INR

DIA ARMYJACSI NAVY AR

ICS SICUS REA

OCI

TREASURY

FBI ISIS BORDER SATROL CHRIS

AD/CI?

O.'?

OCP. CV?

CIAMUCC

2%0

---

## Page 3

2.68:9 8-48 (201

IN

Rades nice

82021

•CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDR-315/00526-03405 2

HE HAS HAO PALVIOUS TRAINING IN A STA FURY AND IN A TWIN-ENGINE

SEAPLANE, PRESUNABLY A PUY. FIORINI SAID THE D-25 WAS PURCHASED

IN- TUESON, ARIZONA, NOT IN TEXAS AS HE PREVIOUSLY STATEO.

2. THE CUSAN PILOT IS. THE SAME PERSON WHO WAS TO MAKE A.

SOSCH-FINANCED RAID IN A SINGLE-ENGINE AIRCRAFT AGAINST AN UNSPEÇIFIED:

TARGET. THE PLANE WAS TO LEAVE FROM THE KEY WEST AREA.

3• FIORINI SAID THAT BILL JOHNSON, AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO

HAS BEEN ARRANGING: THE SUPPORT ASPECTS FOF BOSCHES RAIDS, RECEIVED

AN UNICENTIFIEO SUM OF MONEY FROM BUSCH ON 17 FEBRUARY.

4. ACCORDING TO FIORINI, IF THE RAID HAD NOT TAKEN PLACE

ALREADY, IT WOULD PRODAQLY DE MADC WITHIN 24 HOURS.

5. FIELD DISSON: CINCLANT, GINCSO, COMKUESTFOR, MIANI REPS

OF STATE, FOL, 1OHDCR MATROL, GUSTONS, LENS, AND USCO.

CONFIDENTIAL

(END OF MESSAGE)

---

