# 104-10172-10154

## Page 1

104-10172-10154

CORT

INFORM TION REPORTS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

NOFORN/CONTINIED CONTROL

COUNTIN

SUBIECT

Cabe

Diapleasure of Foreign Comminiat

Over Cuban Arrogance in Ideological

Matters

REPORT NO.

DATE DISIR.

CS -3/5216,422

20 June 1962

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RO

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

Hid-May 1962

SOURCE

England, London

helma 1962

RELD REPORT NO.

THIS # UNEVALUATED INPOMATION.

SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

" from "a regular source, quoting Jovan Mirio,

correspondent In Cuba for TAMUG, Yugaslar press agency."

08 Contents 3.

Appraisal

The Soviet Union has clearly accepted Fidel Castro as the loader of the

Caban revolution,

ainod in any case there is no ono else, and apparently

a1s0 as a sincere Marriet-leninist, However, the Soviete and other foreign

Conmunlate resent the revolutionary arrogance of Castro, who has admitted

to having read only 370 paged of Das Kapital, which he days he may sindy

more when he has time.

2.

The change of the Cuban youth organization'e name fron Association of

Joung Rebela to Loague of Young Communists 1a regarded anong foreign

Marriate as ridioulous.

3. An 11lustration of foreign Communists' irritation al Cuban arrogance

ocurred during a press conference early in May given by two Spanish

Communtato in Habana.

The Spaniards had said that the Spanish Communist

Party was trying to pohleve power by means of strikes and other non

violent action in order to avoid another civil var.

A Cuban journaliot

chided then for this statement, and asked scornfully, "Don't you have

mountains?"

With some Irritation one of the Spaniards replied that, just

as the Cuban revolution had teen made in a way quite different from the

mary that had preceded it, so the Spanish revolution would be unigue,

dependent on conditions inaide Spain and on decisions taken by Spaniards

alone.

870 La

STAR #

3-E-C-R-E-T

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

LE AIR

IXINSA

TXjOR TXLDIA

TIW

Enchant toe armatie

And tastionist

12

INFOR

REPOR

INFORMATION REPORT

NELG

TEH WAKE

CLOPS HH

NO PIPT

2

WE/S

JITH/PA, PROF 1 WHICA/PROP

0E1-32835

HE/MADE

TEW, INT

2 TEH/SI

NO PROJECT

09/59D/Baumar 1

+ HE/PICT

"(SHOTH) 0%

TICE

WE/PARI

2 hiH/R

TWEL

TOrALA DISSEM SEC 1,

3. 102/5X06

102-3/524.122

E ?,

CI 5, PI 3,

WH a (2), TW 11 (1).

0s 1, WE 3,

LIAISON C

CONDITING BENE

31: 31)

Уото

NETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

