# 104-10169-10138

## Page 1

104-10169-10138

SECRET

G- 1912

& Tebruary 190l

MEMORANDUM FOR & Calel, DD/8/82

ATTENTION

88R/780

SOUVECT

SETTLINGE

1 Oraphological Analyale 08360-20)

1 Mamo et Request. & Jebruary 108

I. la posponse to reference request, subject malertal

was dubmitted to a graphological analyalo, Craphological reporta

forwardod by TSD are produced by a tralnod anslyal avallable en

@ contract baal. TSD does not, within itoeld, posseen the capa»

blity to evalvalo individual raporte and thay are arenarilled

without editing or comment.

8.

All payalcal evidonce submitted by the requester and

covered In the course ol thie analyale, logether mill report ol

analyolo, lu attschod herero.

Than

C/TSD/GARB/AdR

Detribution:

Or!g. and 1 - Addressee

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Attack to G-192

Cano 015360-X

AGE: 32

NATIONALITY: RUssian

65X: Female

Prolim lastY Surroy:

Due to the inadequacy of the submined natarted. osly highly

sentativo dummarialog oblomonto can be mado.

Bigg Basementoi

The writer lo evidently a person will a brong oge, the aneerto

¡horeol and lo nor enolly pushod aldo. sha parsonaco a Alga segroo

of Intelliganco, lo moll educalad and huo thoroughly aboorbod la

mortal obe boo rond and audied. Mor latollectual and praculcol

londonclos are fairly woll equilibraiod, and lboy support each osbor

quito conesrucively.

she ho a prung capocisy lur identifylog hero

poll weh difforon shought and form palserno which ano integraled

•killfully Into her mode of operallona, fo porsasses imagination

and fansasy which obe aries so bridlo by subor -mindedrono and manor-

She diocardo superfluous and unnecessary matertal, but

•he doss not almaya diacorn the yiral polaro la mara comples prileno.

she Ano more of an arriotle than a aclone mind. Her inaln Iniereas

le directed

sowerd the Impreston nhe can create and loward mcking

• good show.

Thus, she may elaborate and ensigorale some unimpor»

imme dotallo al the asponse of working out and presenting the undariyo

moaning of a

mubjoce. She possensen ence and skill in espreelug her

poll, verbally an well an In wrlling. She can lormulate her thoughte

Im an understandable and acceptable manner, and can be quite cons

vincing in her argumen. She has somo himeronic qualities and likes

Do dramatine horsell and the material ale la dealing with. Probabir.

ahe would have preferid to be in actrens, but for some reaion ine

coald sot follow thie inclinatlon and she fools frustrated In thie respact.

She loves to have an audlence which admires whatever capabilitles

. she tries to exhibit. She does not possess much genuine originallty;

she is more reproductive than creative. However, nie possesson

• certain amount of mental Independence which sho intogrates skille

fully into her accepted environmental pailora. Appareatly, she has

been subjected to some kind of discipline, and she has learned to

function within a clearly defined framework. Her way of thinking is

clear, logical and fairly adaptable.. She 13 a careful observer, and

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

15360-X

G- 7922

arranges her affairs in a noat and orderly manner. She can figure

and calculate and she la able so manipulate number!. She likes so

•pend money freely and to live on a large acale.. But she seemo lo

he accustomed to some restraint, and makes a rong elforss al gotten

along wilh the means at her disposal. While she la able lo lake erdero.

she prolers so janue them. She has some adminierralivo abilities.

and she goro shinga done. Sha likes to handle largo projects and

derives a cortain emillonal salinacion from boeing thom properly

enochod. ln the execulion of her canto, she la onace, conactentiou

and rollable.

When she lo Intereded ln a job, sha cas muster a lot

of thoroughnoss, pallence and persintencé.. Sha likes challengies

and unusual ano gamonto wallo routine jobo sand to bore bor. Never.

Choleso, sha can force horsoll lo concontraso woll on whalovor one la

• dolng and to obur out any diversiona and dietracion. Har memory

functiona procisely, Apparently, she hoo accumularod a considerablo.

«mount of professional Inowledgo and goneral Information on which

oho drawa •nolly whenover cho needo d6.

Emotionally, the melter la a rather expansive person who seeme

Do bo very consclous of her cuntant mood for solf-restraln. She lau

her feelingo and limpulson under the airloront rational control and

unually avolde boing carrled away by them.

She la ego-contered, some»

what sollon and narcleslatle. She la rather vale. and she lande to

•naigorato the Importance of hersoll no woll an of the thingo she does.

She clalmo a los of space for heranil, and in trying lo hold lhe floor.

who punhea others aslde, She la noll-confident and sure of hersell,

and she can ansert hernelf In an almost Impertinent manner. While

mho cen play various social roles and hao cultivated superficially

come sinooth social manners, she can be tactless, abrupt and ruthless

when she wants to reach her gosle.. She is ro: ladly to lose sighs

of her perecnal advantage in whaever she la doing.

She has a lot of

•Egression which she le usually clever enough to express la more

Indirect ways. Corrtitutionally, she la sensitive and differentiated,

and has an Instinctive foeling for very fine shadings.

But she has

devolopod a certain toughness and even obtrusiveness when she wants

te overcome obstacles which may be in her way. She is high-strung

and somewhat hysterical. Particularly in her private llie and in her

more porsonal interrelationships, she can be rather erratic by most

unexpected actious and reactions. She can be quite baffling, because

at times it la difficult to determine if one is dealing with her or with

the Impersonation of a role abe has just created for herself. There

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

15360-X

G-7912

is more shell than emotional substance in her makeup, and the shell

can take on most differens shapes and colors. Rationally, sbe in

guided by an ideological system (with personal modifications) with

Iso fundamental eibical principles, which outwardly, the follow.

rather meticulously, especially for the purpose of creating a proper

Impresslos. In reallty, she exercises a number of camouflaging

espacities most cleverly and skilluily.

This ta Intenalfled by

considerable sell-deceptive and dramatic abilities. Her emotional

distortion la more of pathological thas of criminal nature, with the

result of being emotionally not sellable and trunworthy.

She may

pet luvolved ln questionablo acilvliles, and lu spite of hor incalll

gonco, she may not have the full graap of the serlousnese of hor..

undertakias because of emotional reasons. Apparently, she does not

have any deep-seated loyalty and in her concepte the world la a stage

on which she ln accuromed lo awlich roles. It would not be of much

use to accuse hor of wrong doing or arguing with her because abe la

so very subjocilve. No mallor what, she lo alwayi sight, as far no

ohe la concerned and she turne everything around In her favor.

There

ln almont a touch of naivity In her obstinate protense uf righteoueness.

In her mind, fancy and really are so close together, that there la

hardly a demarcation line. Her paycho-phyalcal resources are

drained by her emotlonal tenalvened and complexity, but she has

mufflelont energy and «trength at her diaposal to support her general

functloning effectlvely. She possensen a strong willpower which she

evidently unes to a great estent for voli defensive and self-protective

purposes.

Summary

The wilter has a variety of good Innate capacitles which should

qually her as a competent worker in her professlonal field. She alac

has some potentiaiities which could be utilized for covert activities.

However, her serlous emotional distortion le the basis for considerable

enreliability and Inconsistency of her attitudes, a condition which may

bo rather well camouflaged.

Quallication:

This report must be evaluated as quallfied Information, because

the handwriting standards submitted for analyals are not adequate.

SECRET

---

