# 104-10168-10015

## Page 1

104-10168-10015

SECRET

2 January 1962

RETURNTO

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MEMOSANDUK FOR:

WE Finance

1400 Bartoa Eall

ATTT

03

SUBJECT

: Re-imbursement to U.S. Jureau of Customs

1. On 19 December 1961 a represertative of ME/l/Security

conferred with Ye. Chester Enerick,

Chier, Investigations for

the Fureau of Custors; at roos 303; 2100 § Street, üid.,

Washington,

D. Co; phone, coce 19k, extensien 5871; in regards

to the Office of Custons carticication in lie future aims of

Project JHATE.

Va. Ecerick was particulariy interested in

the agency's present and future needs for the assigment of

a customs egent, Caesar Diostajo (true nare), presently at

Tey dest, Florice.

It is noted that this customs agent was

assigned by the Bureau o. Casters to fer last to service

Agency requireseats in that area.

2. Ordinarily there is not sufficient work in the Key

West area to warrent the assignant of a full-tine custons

agent, and MI. merick is Interested in determining our

nEEs

for contirasi service of Hr.. Diostaio.

Sefore initiating

his transfer ection, Mr. Emeric

suggested trat if the

Agency requiras the services e this custons representative

for the future that the igency assume the expense o his

salary on a reimbursable basis. Mr. Diostado is a 55-41.

It is recormended that sopropriste arrangements be

made to continue Mr. Diostado's assignsent at ¿ey dest.

For your inforration.

the payment of the individual'g

salary to the Sureau o: Castors is a creap price to pay for the

cover and security this mn prorides our operation.

03

SECRET.

2/PV

---

