104-10186-10114

ee
eg aac WIDE A
Pi : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
= + Tle westertal coatatns taformation aferting the ations! Dvfease of the Valied Gistee withis the meaning of the Eeplonace Lava, Tre
ME 'UnC. Gere Too ead THO the trunsoimise ef porieea OC whch fm ADy manner te eu unewinoneed pera Ww ponisited UF tee
SECRET
LS FORE TGS Drssem
COUNTRY Cuba Reront NO. CSCI~316/01236-64
SUMECT Enio BENITEZ Gimenez _ CATE DISTR, = 8B October 1964
\ . ; : ‘NO. PAGES 62 .
\ : RETURN TO CIA. :
1 : Background Use Only REFERENCES :
i pate of 1964 Do Not Reproduce
\ INF.

piace @ Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQ, October 1964. =__FIELD REPORT NO.

4 TWiS 1S UNEVALUATED INIORMANON, SOURCE GRADINGS ARF OLTINITIVE_APPtAIsAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with’ the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964..

Headquarters. Comments
The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided-by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first
checking with this Agency.

Source identified Enio BENITEZ. CaaS fron » nen
travel manifest as a Cuban courier .1,2,3,4

Headquarters Comments

1. {In a report dated 13 October 1950, an untested source reported
that one Enio BENITEZ was a Communist in the administration
office of the Cuban newspaper Hoy; he was in charge of Habana
sales.

2. Included in a report dated 5 October 1962, was a list of Cuban.
diplomatic couriers who frequently traveled to and from
Santiago. Erico BENITEZ Gimeno appeared on this list and was
reported to have been born in 1925 in Cuba. He carried diplomatic

passport number 217/61 and was single.

3. The records of this Agency reveal that Enio BENITEZ Gimeno .
left Montevideo for Santiago on 21 January 1963.

SECRET as
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

wae Tom Tamar Tray Tae Tra TSEX Teer
Renner ANE Cae
Gap dni ea
RIF POW

wean
rere

5



av

5.

6.

9.

‘Cet

Trinidad, -on 16 October 1962.

In_a report dated 3 March 1963
‘cported that Enio BENITES
na on 15 October 1962, and left for Port of Spain,

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01236-64

id pa

an

He departed Trinidad on 18 October

1962, BENITES was born ga 22 August 1925 in Cuba and ais occupation

. Was. Listed _ diplomat. ~

An 8 March 1983 report stated that Bnio BENITES Gimeno arrived in
Tokyo on 18 February 1963. ‘

A report dated 15 March 1963 stated that Enio BENITEZ Gimeno, a
Cuban national, arrived iri Colombo on 14 March 1963, for ‘a three
day visit at the Cuban Embassy.

On 3°May 1963, it was reported that Enio BENITES Gimeno transitea

Karachi enroute to.

lombo for New Delhi.

in a report dated 12 June 1963,
leno is a Cuban diplomatic courier Y

who arrived in Kingston from Habana via Mexico on 8 June 1963,
and left for Toronto on 18 June 1963. BENITEZ was born on 22
August 1925 in Santiago de Cuba.

The following information concerns the travel of Enio BENITEZ
Gimonez during 1964;

16, 20,

21 February 1964
22 February 1964
23 February 1964
26 February 1964
28 February 1964
23 March 1964
15 April 1964
16 April 1964
17 April 1964
20 April 1964
9 July 1964

- Arrived Brussels from Amsterdam

- Departed Brussels for Vienna

~ Arrived Rome

~ Arrived London from Paris

~ Departed London Hl
- Traveled to Mexico from Habana : |
- Departed Copenhagen for The Netherlands

~ Departed The Netherlands for Brussels

- Departed Brussels fro Vienna

~- Arrived London from Paris

- Arrived Karachi from New Delhi

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
