# 104-10015-10344

## Page 1

1104-10015-10344

M. Just.

#-Manett

woul

DEwald Sought Vi

Report Mexican Government Sources

BY JACK RUTLEDGE

first by a local newspa

Oswald lost his

Mexican

government

per yesterday. elsim temper

The

sources confirm that the

It was immediately con-

suspected assassin of

firmed by the Intericr

Me reportedly left the

nerve

consul's office in a rage,

President John r

Ken-

Ministry spokesman

slamming the door

medy recently risited

According to this

hind him., 3G

Mexico to Seek a visa to

spokesman," Oswald

en-

Later he visited the So-

26 NoV.

return to Russia.

Mexico, at Nuevo

viet consul, with the

This strengthened spec.

•Laredo: Sept. 26, and ar

Ulation that Mexico

tenn-

same result. He told the

1963

rived in Mexico City on

Soviet, consul he was a

porarily closedits bor-

E tourist card the follow.

militant Communist, mar-

ders to the United States-

ing day.

ried to a Russiam eitizen

in the bellef he might be

heading. wack this. way on

The tourist card was is:

and had lived to Russia

sued in New Orleans by

for three years."

an escape route.

the Mexican consulate:

But when he was agam

An Interion Ministry

spokesman

i said

today

Oswald immediately

told there would besa

-that it was true that Lee

conferred with Cuban

long delay, he had a bit

Harvey

Oswald was in

con's ul Eusebio Azeué,

ter argument-and left.

Wbat he

Mexico from Sept. 26 t

asking for a visa to go

did during

the rest of his stay in

October 3. He said while

to Russia via Cuba. When Mexico is not known. It

here Oswald sought ur-

Azué told him the re

quest

could not be determined

would have to go i where he stayed. But h

tarough channels under returned tune

bly take threet weeks to Octs.

Document Mumbor 1377-489-B

for FOlA Review on NOV 1977

Lee H.

Osmold

p-

---

