# 104-10217-10132

## Page 1

104-10217-10132

GAS TICHCARAT DISSEMINATION

5) PERSON MANY NOTVIES

ASHANCE COM

59085

SSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP I.

M

1

(When Filled in)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

ROUTINE ANOVOR INTAGERE BY

did = 341:1'71

ACTION COPY

on -11

FILE. VR

Астіон9

160

SECRET 022123Z AUB 71 CITE WH/WIAN! 12159 (SHOQUIST ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO

1N 392180

RYBAI AXULE IYPIC AYECRU AMCALL

REFS: . A. DIRECTOR 165416

B. WH/MIAMI 12857(1N 385-785)

Co DIRECTOR 164213

Lo HORACE M. BIRGELIS ADVISED ON 2 AUGUST 1971

THAT WIFE OF ANCALL I CONTACTED AYECRU-I BY TELEPHONE

IN MOVE OF VANISTENDAEL IN BELGILA ON 31 JULY. SHE

TOLD AMECRU-I THAT SHE SENT AIR MAIL SPECIAL DELIVERY

LETTER TO HIS BAD NEUKEIM HOTEL GIVING HIM INSTRUCTIONS

O DEPOSIT OF $70, 008 MONEY ADVANCED HER BY "CHURCH

FRIENDS." SHE THEM GAVE HIM REF C BANK ACCOUNT NAME

AND MLMBER. BEFORE SHE COULD GET TO CRUCIAL QUESTIONS,

ASECRU-1 TOLD HER THAT THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM WITH

HER REQUEST AND THEN THANKED HER FOR SENDIMS LETTER.

THROUGH DOUBLETALK ANECRU-I LET HER KNOW THAT TELEPHONE

WAS NO PILACE IO HOLD CONVERSATION ON "THIS IMPORTANT

HATTER."

20 WHEN WIFE OF ANCALL-I ADVISED ANSIGH-2 OF

ABOVE, HE TOLD HER TO CALL AMECRU- I BACK AT BAD NEUHE IN

∞ ..

SECRET

---

## Page 2

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PEASON/URIT NOTHING

ANTIANCE CON.

MOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

When Filled In i a

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY FROMIAITED

POUTINO ANDIOR INTIALS GLEN EY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

FILE, VR

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 12159 SECRET

HOTEL SINCE KE ONLY IN BELGIUM FOR IHAT WEEKEND AND

FIND OUT OF AMERU I HAD OBIAIMED POSSESSION OF $70, 908,

AND IF NOT WHEN HE WAS TO RECEIVE IT, AND WHEN HE

EXPECTED IO DEPOSIT IN IN REF © BAMK.

30 AS OF 1688 HOURS LOCAL I DE ANSIGN-2 HAS

NOT BEEN ABLE TO CONTACI WIFE OF ANCALLO! SINCE ONE

OF HER UNCLES ON DEATHBLD®

Ao WILL ADVISE WHEN AMECRU CONTACTED.

5. FILE: 201-0610638 201-275949 aP-1

SECRET

that 22?

".

0,

ArT SECRET

100.

L

---

