04-094 40022]

MATERUTAL REVIENED AT CLA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMNITTEF ON ASSASSINATIONS STAEF MEMBERS:

FILE TITLE/NUMRERSVOL INE; hid MZ ee, z a /
Cf fille

INCLUSIVE DATES: : : i"

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: FEO. ATRUEL Y SES Tem OLS

SO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPTED OR REYOVED FRO: THIS FLLE


Peroanok . eet
QQ


San raranto

| 26 FEBRUARY, 1970

-ppP/wt
BRANCH 2
PANAMA SECTION

TT pounion nt ip castes Stevi OLCNANCrE
D.

OPS OFFICER
Tis ccna ~41F Senay OR RATE 7

17 Ciataww aikow Sem TON EE oe
'
0136.01 435,170

Eyers 4
SUDJECT HAS SIGNED WAIVER FOR SICK AND, ANNUAL LEAVE ACCUMULATING
AFTER 28 FEBRUARY 1970. G

WoT Reson enh ce MGCRL :
Rese c Regn ie, dec 7? Herken
ter i Dale &

LH,

Pil

STIS at reno O78



SECRET

TEMPLOVEE, NOTICL_OF RESIGNATION. _

a Revo seins Ned €
hock hil |
tit ce levee PLEA KW,

INSTRUCTIONS : Sie

tems t thru 7,) ‘The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced itemis, Mems 4 theu 7 and 9 thru:
= 18 require information which pertains only to the action requested, aad NOT to the current]
icimy remain unchanged,

and
teins 9 thru 18a) status of the employce unless speci

Ken 5 = “Category of Employment” should show ang of the following entries
WAE

Regular Summer
Part Time Beta Ours =o Consultants soe
‘Temporary Detail In ty

‘Temporary-Part Time

ation pertinent.

Kem 9 = “Organizational Designations” should show alf levels of orga
ing the location of the positio

gg Maier Component (Dieter. Deputy Dieter. ed
FAL Gite, Major Staff, etc.
Foreign Field o¢ US, Field (4/ pertinent)
Division of Stal Gubordimete to rst line)
Branch
Section
Jost

0 Tithe” and “Occupational Series” should be the standard abbreviated tide and
corresponding occupational series in Handbook of Official Occupational Tides and Codes
for the duties actually to’ be performed by the employee. Uf diflercat from the title and
series of the fosition occupied ay shown on the must current edivon of the Postivn Con
trol Register or Form 261, Stating Complement Change Authorvation, explain under Item

1h—Remaths.

ftemy 11 and 15 — “Poss

ture should be hut of the official authorized to approve for the Carcee Service to which
the employee belongs. Ht more than one Career Service is involved, the gummg Gareer Serv
tie should approve avd the othet Careet Service should concur in ttem 18, Remarks,

Item 18h —

ROUTING The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Petsonnel tbrougd the appropriate
Carver Service official(s). In the case of eequests tpeetfied in HB 20-800-1, which require advance
approval of of notification to the Otfice of Security o the Office of Finance, one copy only will
be sent to the Office(s) concerned.

nen SECRET





eration to. receive the Exceptional
iewed by this office to determine your
eligibility for the award, With considerable regret, {| must concur in
the assedament that the isjuries you ered in the line of duty do not
fall-under the special criteria governiig award-of the Exceptional» _
duties, in the meaning-of-the governing
regulation, relate to duties performed in.areas in which internal strife,
civil disturbances or hostile action by armed forces or persons un-
friendly to the United States.were present at the time the injury was
incurred, or, relate to duties performed in an assignment defined as
hazardous due to unusual geographic or other natural conditions.

2. You may be oure thet this decieion has been besed upon
thoughtful deliberation, “Please accept my personal thanke or a job

well done under difficult conditions.

;
Robert ©. Wattles
Lirector of Personnel

Distribution:
0 - Addressee
- L-C/WH/Pers
J - OPF/Hidalgo
1-D/Pers
2 - BED/HMAB



Le Tw cordance with a request received fron :
ae your .component, are hereby appointed a Records 5 :
Officer in. tlie Clandestine Services: Your functions 2
are described, “in summary, in CSI 70-1, Para. 4.4.
You have also participated:in a training course in
which ‘these functions were reviewed-in. some detail.

: 2. The‘essence of your appointment is that
you-now occupy a position of trust in which you are
expected to draw on your knowledge and experience
to exercise responsible and sound judgment in build- ‘ :
ing-and maintaining a ‘proféssfonally uséful~ recors
system in the Clandestine Services. You-are, at the
same time,.expected to train-and guide others within
your component in these respects.

3. A copy of this memorandum will be placed
in your official personnel folder.

EDWARD {. MARELIUS
DUP Records Management Officer

ce: Personnel File of Addressee

GROUP I}.

Excluded from automatic
SECRET downgrading and
declassification



SENSITIVE OPERATION AC
170 Go



WASHINGTON,’ D.C.

Bl Yaa

17 eGuhow wunatt ‘Ya Canttn Suave basocabon

[Ve Cissaicanow senda (68 18 on?

a Senay [v6 Gtade ano stem 17 Satnav On ae

org

YOU ARE HEREBY NOTH ED OF YOUR niger To APPEAL THIS: ACTION TO THE DIREC-
TOR OF, CENTRAL INTELLIGE! ‘CE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF HR 20-50.
SUCH APPEAL-MUST BE RECEIVED IN THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR WITHIN 30 ‘CALEN-
DAR DAYS FROM THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ACTION. q

TER DGAaIURE OF MOULTING OF

“SG NATURE OF CAMLER SIOWCE APPROVING OFFER

feate weno

ery

qian ae

seat i

E
ins L
Taos eatnes oma]
Sees ee Tmo oe | [£00 DATA
2 a

fay way
mo m0

7

et
Ta we cow! oat

Ti tin ow

in _canee @uigaey

ee)

be uw tir Teor 008 Te

fl \ CP
o rot Caewaie STN wud at Te cerry
co Tyrwntvon went (00 road enicune|cooe
I —
re

See meme signed ty
pyres dat

SECRET



~ FI wanch

C/u/PERSONNEL

“woBeRT™ D. ASHMAN

jee |

Tom meet ae

‘Trop pata >|

Ceorecrry

tat [Oe we

oo ‘rateibes covtenataSivick aa

ren teed
aired

E2Cima ss emus rae 9 ma)
(CRG Sova vase Raa) ma

13 PESTON CONTROL CRITWNCATION



Lone vit y CQuPuTA ION Bai

/V

Tei We

2



Fe ASSIRANON MmcOUE VER FAL on?

ia: Gane ans ane
a2 Q)

te atioa [ie tenor [7
cca | co

‘SPACE BOW FoA,

CLUSIVE, UST_OF THE_OFNICE OF PIRSONRIY/

in avon Lay meat

ri ioe

seeious Gortuedet sete DATA

@nnar

o

at

eto raves str

(oot

Dap NS2 vse veevcus tome



Speck} Afetrs Stott
B0Se5 Levelonnent Complerect

i ar asin
OPy OFFIC. SaRL

Ta" GIASSINCATION SCHEARE 768, TA, on) 15 OccuPaTinwiad HES a

- 9136.01 2? (1)

aL sgn

“Tir Sauna OF ware

i

SPACE NILOW FO
Yin sande

say con
SAS Sed

Sa adil H ested
LF

amare |
tat com t,

1
i} £OD DATA bedi 5
[ey [ae

r

[a Tonia

‘wou

Fe seca accu ao

[te

L

Totaare mis Cove

a waar |e
aoe assim



Operations St

tation - OOMANE

OFS G:7i3:3

Tid Canad ras Casoacoe

Ta ClALtnCATON SNELL FG TB. oh

as

iy xtra ES

€135.9

TY Saikay Ge oat

oon
$

1 cy Seew'tty
1 ey Peyrol?

TT whine

une (oot

rere rk)

@ nar
wot hi

G3 POSTON ConTa. GNTCATION
,

ia
is A ehh re ©

DOTS? ae red teren



HIDALGO, BALMES N,

There is on file. in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability. Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

injury, or death incurred on _39 May 1969 . Broken left foot,

This notice should be filed in the employee’s Oificial. Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disabi:ity Claim File.

ron cis a eee

NOTICE “F OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAI** FILE

veins 10760 woe re SECRET



of Persopnet):

ration

Te wonrtiow Fate

OFS OFFICER

Vi. poseTiow wuute

732

Fea. catuaw senvice

D

De atonaTiOw

ss

Va CLASSIFICATION BOMOMLE (GS, LB, ote,

ww

Te

Gane ano ater

in (h)

v7, Sauawy ow Rate

+ 88L0

ccarrcrecry

Securt ty

Lis we

| G9

SAS

FER



Special Avtatrs Stat
FI/CI Branéh :

“Washington,
Treriteen tine Apevia eee To
$ OFFICER : a 0682

Ce CaS, UB, ore.) | v9. OCOPATIONN StOIES,| te. EhADE AnD STEP

\ 0136.01 nv (b)

Ls _

ney Avverity : :
LIU (ical ” |
ye Ea. AvstR, 78 SBF Y ; jatle Lffiede Dip
: ek ctrancrgre

Hfe

Reaier) . "SECRET



NOTIFICATION “OF |

‘PER

Pa Sak (CAST FveGT wIDOUET

Ti poutioa TE

OPS OFFICER

ap vouition aaeaee = ih Haver SisicaaTion
i :

Te Casiivicatioe KatOOLE (EL U8, oH)

GS

Cc



stanrow

Spec Affairs State = |
U.S. Field:
Forvard Operations Styton’ * = wave”

CI Section

Vie PONT iow TH

Te

OPS OFFICRR

ii Tavany om

Tar CassTV Cation SORBAE TES ED, ots] 18, Ben

Cs) | 0136.01

wo

iz

tee. gcnaume

Lhe

“aeauestpse

eee

& tah



dav
t

Cre

IOFFICE OF PERSONNEL

Tew ce Bae

15 | 274

== | fron DaTAD|
a

War fan

i

Resor state ws

toww
ea

GS. PORtTIOW COmTAGL CLATIFICATION

SECRET

JaaYe apraoveo



+ POSITION TiTLE

T [io eheten aeavice Bearanation 7
OPS OFFICER m : : “_p :

TELAGATPVEATION BOMEOWLE (GS, ER, ote.) ] 19 OcCuPATIONAL SEOIEE.| IH. CAROL and ater [VP :
7 e pate causal
os 2 0136.02 | 3 $8,080)

Ta, REwARRS.

FROM: DDP/\MI/4/FT-3t/ #602 = =

ve 3h. aPeRevaL “Toate apnoveo

ARM och



DOP fun ‘Waa,
Branch 4
PI-CI Sees

Ve Portia Fanne

OPS GFFICER (pb)

Te chassiere

cs {12)

ae Sendice €08, thy ate [4 wcccraTeona HONEY [IE

013.01

Proms DDP All, Bits 4, #0626

OFVICE

Laide Wa ie

UP ae

KAA oS

SECRET

crear Tos

Vex!
eM.



19, Serv. 80." Oxeup. Savion

ACTION

FP Nature OF Astron’

—] 29 Tipe OF Emploree

REASSIGSMENT a REGULAR
Leh zelpok
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

31, Organizational Darignotons 7 Cade] 32, Location OF Olhcl Staton Toration hede

DOP VE

BRANCH & oy {

: U ) :

si Were Held 30 Pevion Valo 1357 Foation Nov ]35 Son j5¥" Ocean: Sevian
Dose <j Ces i
gr’: [} | ops orricer. BAW626 es bo 36.01

38 Grade & Step! 39: Salary Or Rate

L

L nal! 7270 i

[43. Appropriation Novber.

92351000 1000

jure And Tul

Cleararce

D. Placoment

(a
fF. Approved By |

ny
2 Loss Notice.

SEGRET ne ®

2 copies to Security,

(Onna Sy VISE

4, Lifer

ele thes



Tas Orgentnavional Dengnitone
DoP/WH :
Branch \III

Central fserton Section as

* SECRET.

2Giner

Sere, |202Oceup, ork

c

cs iE 0236.01

26. Appvepiation Nunbes

Os u7 1st

ACTION

29. Tyre Of Employve

| Reguler

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

BT, Sigenivavianal Oovignavions Cee YE Caen Sot an
pps/oTR i i
Operations Senool y79
Covert Training A722 | Washington, D. Ce

ait Pos Bir

Step (39, Selery Or Rere

Instructor Ope:

!

realtones

40. SD 43, Appropriction Number

1 57,030 au) 9-7500-30-018
TS
zs send ty Opes and rs zz
Uh 1. aay
ave aa
saitts. i
Tissronte T igs
derendy | Ce Prva RE

IC. Clossilicorton |

Remerks

TEE" 115da cose Previou] corre

One copy forwarded to UXVOUCIERED Payroll.

TWo copies forvarded to Security.
Pave:



Yj U , g Y Uj

Wave oF EwPUSTEE iLaSToPIRS =~1S0UE]

KIDALCO, Ealmes

“There is on file in the Casualty ‘Affairs Branch, Benefits
and Casualty Division, Office of Personnel, an Official
Disability Claim File on the above named -eniployée for an

illmess, injury, or death incurred on __1 Cet 57 :

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official
Personnel Folder as a permanent cross-reference to the
Official Disability Claim File.

SIENTTORE BF ECD wepeeeATATIVE

Deve OF NOTICE

24 Sept 58

NOTICE °F OFFICIAL DISABILITY CI “1M FILE

= oo qaen

Vee Se 1076



21. Grode & Stop [22. Salory Or =P 30 a. Bar

TE. Arwropriation Number

29. Type OF Employee

Regular

Coda] 50. Separation Date

Ce
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
[31. Orgenisctional Designotions Code [32. Location OF Olficial Stavien T Satin Code
DENA + :
Branch. IIT errata porn ee
Central America Section H4é 12) Washington, D.C.

a Fae iad 34. Position Title

IA. Requested By (Name And
[id iu 7Perbonnel Officer

arfon Call (Name & Telephone Eat

X 8242

SERENE
Clearence Signature, | Cleorance
0

7]. Placement

ae aPeS SEE

* For slotting purposes Only,

Subject is presently. enigaged as a Le rpkaves wth ie Wi Division,

pope S20



‘Titer oat
A peorouea;

2 oncanizenoaas,
Detentions

tt wudogsusreas

Ce

‘A MARAE (ee soraree if neces?)

Subject is presently a contract employee with Project HYPOTHESIS.

Te POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION

== ei ia

i i
TE | Je, | ie APPROPRIATION WHR IOGS | BA OE ARSIN | @ Uo wes
ce! Lares Bad Secon
Geaucervoun | C]cameo Cenoven

be | wl So _ beyienee Sa u Pal Ea

xu TAR of SGUTURE | —ohre A

2 7

3 CEIL OR FOE CONTROL = #2 I

© GASIFICATION

BRACE Gm EWA j iz oT ;

= i 5 7

Lear 7 pr ee 2/1 i
1



erring 7 Partuaions TPintea Wy Py 5, Viionp (Oot 19597
Intern; » 8,0 Bative,

CUACE

Spanish = = B Kighy W

fav atiniv aronponto taatnin® 1950 Into
1958 Coo Party Org & Ops «1959 Pick:
1958 CL Font 1959 Auds
_ 1958 Info Rpeng RptaéNeato ETH e;
_1958 Oporationo

195

None = May 1958
9); Translate,
“Intorprot + May 195;

r Ortent
3 & Locka
0 Survoil Mga.
ritned Entry (ist) =

Te pay (Fetvcnnel Aetlana, 2 ll lery Orderen, woe

sina
ROT TTS

ioe eon wry
erncersve oane | Fevitton Ties cceratienns fore

a) e | Semana oes |

a Fob 1952 ~ Has 1958, Contrnoe
Hsz 1958 | Axoa Opa O41 0236.01] "

Eyota 20 Lox DPPLKI exo §.
pS} DoP/wil-L1T/Coatyal acavica .

Jas-© Hod 1959, s0¥

Sua 1959 | Instcustor (079). 11D,
Jun 1980 [Opa Of3 0135
aoe

. Aug 2952
gen en 3942
1963
Apr 96h Pf
190 won
Kar 1965 | w®

Dee 1985] " ©

TR

bon Sehe
Biles fa seummees
SF A) gee eenvanse euteser

Wem 5
ip 1s

My "D jor ag School fcovose Tug



Far SuMNARY OF CARCE® PREFERENGL OUTLINE AND/ON FIELD REASSIGNMENT QUESTIONN:

OCUUENTS BHtCH SaOcLD WE AEWIEWLD IN OETAIL

Tar ORDA Ow

a from TSD/AP/C4S for the postal intercept exemplars wnien are
invaluable to tet office. .

Doo bane wiwteeT®

Were o>. 496 (PART 2) © ° ; PROF ILE

veer



in sattaléctory. Desired éasults ee bslng produced In'e profictont Sanne,

$+ Strong Perlocmonce is characterized by exceptions! proficiéncy. 7
0+ Qytstonding Pertos

ethers doing a) a

fod. Insert roting letter which best doseribes the
petformance of thot duty, All employees
of employeos wuperrived).”

Lisi up to six of the,most Important srecifle duttad parfoiméd-during the eating
mariner In which employee perfera EACH specific duty. Cons
ith supervisory responsibilities MUST.be rated cn thels ability te super

sreeWpAyala:Desk Case Officer for | “JFI operations. | any

Prepares cables and dispatches to and. other Station
and internal Headquarters correspondence.

SPRniG DOT TOE is
Conducts required coordination .with other offices within the ‘1
agency.

SeeeTTe BOTT NOT
Supervises and/or maintains, files and a regulates. Indexing

relating to his cases. i - ize air
a . Pp

sPreiFic DUTY wo. e ; : : : ®

fsreciFic DUTY NO. S y Pata .
eCirie te

gercinie OUTY WO. 8 f

terres

Be Ptetiainys conduct on
ned en your knowled
ing bax ceresnpding tothe

SECRET



tlie, ddvantage of native ‘thoney. +
ing'of .th¢ Latin thinking process.”

“fle 48 operationally: imaginative

as f-Bureau penetra
and unquestionably possesses the ingontiity and courage to translate
ideas into action. ‘In this respéct,~hovever, his efforts must be
channeled and selectivity exorcised, On the Desk this officer
provides the valuable service of opcrational ory and: continui ty;
he served six years and has been on the desk for. three.

+ Continued

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS —.- e

T CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SE En SECTIONS a, AND ET Tyg REPORT

inal 1097

wena Fi ve
UNDER My subenvision

\

awk

SF FICIAL TITLE OF TUPERVISOR

CLIN L2/P_-

BY REVIEFING OFFICIAL (a)

Mr, Hidalgo is an experienced and voll qualified operations
officer, and it is indeed unfortunate that there are medical problens
which do not allow hin to be assigned overseas, Since Mr. Hidalgo
cannot be assigned overseas, I too endorse his desire to be assigned

to OTR or to another. assignment of his choice,

- TorF RIAL THRE OF BE VIE aI OT FIGIAL [A VFTH Bf THINTED OUT OnD BEWATONE
9 LCi tie
? Fdwin Mt. Tevrerl

~~ SECRET



“Hidalgo, B ines} ik

‘pleasant

“Expectedly, his ‘attitudes at times: 60 ‘reflec

SECTION: Cc Conit tnued-

air. i

ane’, Under'standab1 y ’

In sum, Mr. Hidalgo serves v satisfactory - function ‘on the

Desk and no doubt could continue to perform so

indefinitely, but :in view of his limitations in a desk~bound
situation and the medical restrictions, both of which will
continue to inhiit his advance in his present component, this
supervisor endorses Mr. Hidalgo's desire td be considered for
transfer to another. component, namely OTR (specifically covert
training), where his attributes would likely come more directly
into play. Ile has the operational experience, competeiicy in a
foreign language, an outgoing personality, and. experience in
lecturing and teaching.* Finally, regardless of the ‘shortcomings
reflected in this evaluation, the grading officer finds much to
admire in Mr. Hidalgo personally. : me

*should a suitable. opening in that field be unavailable, it is
felt there would be merit also in considering Mr. Hidalgo" s
other stated interests, i.e., the technical interrogation section”
of the Office of Security 6r 00 Contacts Division.



(ihea Feltid tay!

(ee eee i “SECRET |

rites a ORT:
es “GERERAC

£2 tk

: Lihat iy 6? ac
RFORMANCE EVALUATION: net

hy ican

could range trom: Neonealinae Vo. furs
separetion. ‘Detelive @

ing In thie cotoger

4 ontiraly sottetociery en? ie charectortzed neither by dateteney nor

Performance In more'than setisfactory. Desired
Performance Is charactertred by exceptional proflelency.
Portormonce

lta oe being peices tno proliclent manner,

portant specific duties perlormed during the rating period: Insert rating levies shich best do:

noce, of

Mic duty. Consider ONLY. effectiveness tn

perlorms EACH

thot duty. All

TFECPIE GUTY WO.

Responsible for all, FI/CI Projects for the Desk

civie DUTY WOT
Initiates, prépares and coordinates ill operational
communications to the field on FI/CI matters

SPECIE BOTY oT

Prepares project renewals, studies and papers on FI/CI

mattors

SPECIE BUTT NO. 8 - :
Translates Spanish language materiai for the Branch

aeacinie BUTT Na
Coordinates FI/CI matters for the Desk with other Hqs
components i

|

RATING.
corres

s

TREE DUTY NO. 6 ;
Occasionally handles visiting indigenous assets

Raving
Corrie

"OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

SSE" 45 onsovers pagvious sorrions,



at the Desk. He is ‘cost. neonseioug and has”
ities. ” :

“worked with Mx. Hidasge Yhave ‘not ‘found his” health to be a factor
in his performance of his duties.

Ken Knaus

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
‘BY EMPLOYEE

T CERTIFY THAT L HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 6, ANO C OF THIS REPORT

10 ‘tink 67 Te
aaa

SERS ESPLEVSE AT Sua Tir Tha WEROAT Wit NOY BEEN SHOWN TO EUPLOVER, ovvE ExPCANATION
mo

OP PICiAL TITLE GF SUPERVIIOR Tete Pat
H ee

| Formerly C/WH/2/P.
Prese WH/2,

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

cs

Soe Sir “Hidalgo! health caused hin to be absent from his duties
several times duving the first part of 1966 bat these absences
were for a limited period. From ny observation, his health has not
presentod a serious problem to the performance of his duties.

Several times during the absence of Mr. Tsikerdanos in the year

‘1966 Mr. Hidalgo was the acting desk officer. His perforimance was
Bost satisfactory, and his supervision of the other desk employees,
albeit for a limited period, was fully satisfactory.

SPFIEIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL [VPRO OF ak aay ano HowavURe

ie
Bawia WO Yetret

. SECRET


icbtegory require’
ining, 8 placing om,
As Ajeacate d neither by deflclency nor
Pe Prolictant Dosteed results ore being tad tin,@ profigiect meriner,
$+ Sirona by excoptional piofléioncy.
0» Qustending Poiforman: ion fo requitements of the work and'in compertton fo the porkermonce of *
folng stmilor work a3 to warrant special vecognitlon,
SPECIFIC OUTIES ae
5 . sit satliy letter which bast deveribes the
‘petlormancs of thot dvty. “All-employoos
umber of emplorese-cipecrtoed

sponsible for the support | SATS
of Miami Station CI/CE activities and operations, |

courr“o? Advisor to various compenents of the WH and WE Divi-
sions: on Cuban operations with specific reference to the Cuban Se-
curity Intelligence Service, organization, modus operandi and
weenie DoTYWayBELEFIng representatives oF :
foreign liaison services and selected agents, visiting in 2

“|Washington’.6n the Cuban Security ‘and Intelligence Services and his”
ovn unique experience—in—the—Gommunist-Party+ Pal

ransfator/interpreter: Served as consultant to WH Division “ .
on Cuban ‘Spanish, ee . é

TT
‘aaciwic DUTY NO

aPeeiwie OUTY NO. e

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSTION.

—
BS
phing about tha umployse which influences his eHectivensss in Na curent position such et per
Slane LETS eb tecgernicagetts teint essoedl wee hein ee |g
you knowledge of empl oveell portormance ding. the rating period,
Ing box corresponding to the siatement which most oceurately rellects his level of performance.

Take Into eceount
formance of speci



ment. ‘Although } he.
sistent thae he bi

: tfdalgo is. ‘tndustetous, works weit ‘uni ‘
his perf rmanicey _Becaisé he, ts in-] :

Pwith cogent argument.”
He was cost: consciou: ways endeavoring to be ‘conservative where possi!
He is an effective .and cooperative member of an office, ready
to assume resporisibility and to help his éolleagues. Thanks ‘to his,
unique experience ‘on. the: Cuban. target, hé has wide knowledge of the
Cuban problem and is, in fact, an éxpert on -the Cuban: Sacursey and In-

telligence Services.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
LOVEE aie
TONS Ar 8, AND € OR This REPORT

"_VCERTIFY THAT I HAVE 5

VORTSS SPUSTER HAS oan
UNGER Wr SUPERVIB)

8 months

Tiyou PainTe ON Gud ano Howe ToRe

sear DG

arERS TTT BTR 7
cAwi/e

“S December 1965 Te Ho /F1-CF

x BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

CGumAENTS OF MEVIEWING OFFICIAL

I concur with the supervisor's assessment of Mr. Hidalgo
with uci exception to the statement that Subject works weil
under pressure. He is indeed an intense person and, under

“ great pressurc, his involvement affects his performance; and even
more important, it has a very bad effect on his health. With
this consideration noted, the undersigned thinks very highly of
‘Mr. Hidalgo and would be pleased to be ascociated with him again.

aunt

TWO wawe Ano

pare OPFICIAL ViVUG OF REVIEWING OF FICIAL, |e Om Pa

9 December 1965 CARICRMO Walter T. Cini /C2/cer”
SECRET



1965-46

New York University = Yoreiga Trade,

Business Lav

oe
one

Beinev UrosNonE® Taatwin®
1958 Coim. Party Org & Ops
1958 CI Pamil

1958 Info Rptng,RpteéRqata.
1958 Operations

Har 1958
Jun 1959
Aug 1961

i288

Spanish

Portuguese = R: Tntera; W, P, 3, v Zero (Oct 1959); T None = May 1958
~ B High; W Intera; P, 3, U Sativa (Nov 1959); Translate,

Interpret = Hay 19.

1958 intel Orie:

1959 Picks & Locka .

1939 Audio Survet] Mgne.

Tob 1952 - har 1950, Concrace Eaplo
Axes Ops Off 0136.01| 21)
San = Feb 1959, TOT Mace end Guaci

Instructor (070) 11.90] Uy
= te 0136.01 1

: ousot

1200 (PART 1) eet seevsens coxtteeee™

D ree aor Anarica

D [OTR/Ops Sebool/covert Teng

roa for Boe/ea/Projece

écala

* PROFILE

te



SEC3ET

‘2a. Sumeany OF GaaCE® POETEREREE OUTLINE ang/O" FIELD RAANNI@OMENT GULBTIONNAIAT

Toe. WOantery OF OTwia SOCamEETE EICH GROWS OF GUOIESTO Ia BETATN



ee on” SECRET eee

“ panen Pitted ted

eur. | FITNESS REPORT
MA ~____ GENERAL.

re) aed ‘tiatiay srry
HIDALGO, -BALNES _ 27. May. ino M
Hy. OP e/Diveom OF aiaiowma ny;

ie PoRtiiON THTCe

eecran (ipeclirht

itv oate meecnt Due mom. "
30 October 1962 27 Jan 62 =
SECTION 8 PERFORWANCE EVALUATION

trom wholly Inadoavote te slighily leas thon setislectory. A reling In thls caregory reauires
he action could range Hom counteling, 19 hathet training. fo plocing se

Hon. Describe ection taken oF proposed In Section C.

Astlafectory and Is cherecterited neither by deltclaney nor

Weck Perfoiman
ctitive re-nadiel actions The natu

Probation, to Pwostlgneret of Yo

A-Adsausin  Pectormance masts all sequirements. M1 Is enttéely
eilences

P= Pyeliclont Peslosmance ia more than satiatactory. Desired results ore being produced In @ proficient manner.

$+ 0 Performence ts chorecteriaed by exceptional profletency.

0+ Quistending Parformance 14s exceptional in relotion 10
others doing similer werk on to warrant sper

Liss up 40 abe of the mont Important apecitic dation
Jmeniner In which employee portorms EACH 8
with supervisory responsibilities MUST be Fa

TRCN BUTT WO. T

Responsible for initiation and development of WH. Diviaion durable assets
program,
Rating

fspaciric ouTY nae
ere Rar

Collate and maintain files on espionage lawa of LA countries,

Weenie CUFT Net

Served as interpreter and translator for Diviaion LA contacte.

WPaciPtc GUTY NO, 6

Coordinated with Branch 1 of WHD on FI and CI mattere.

awecivic OUTY HO. averse
Gives lectures us gisst instructor to students attending School of

Intemational Commnisn.

SPECIFIC DUTY nO e

LL_PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take Into eccount everything about the employes which influences his allectivenass is his curent psition such 2 par

formance of specitie, dition, prodvetivity, conduct on lob, cooperstivenoss, pertinent pes sonal welts a7 NObING, ered
perttevlor Haltatlons i tolenia, Gosed on you knowledge of employee's everall performance during the reting ped P
place the letter In she rating box cenvesponding te the etement which mout eccurately relacis hit lavel of paptrmentey

SECRET



SECRET
a 1

ed tnd

pouition keeping
tof work performance, tv

orsign fongueg. , (Fad ton exstent position. “Amplify of explal

in for determining lutwe personnel eciton. ‘Mennet of paslormonce of monogertol of supervivory.duties muat

Mr. Hidalgo joined Wk/PO/A in November 1961 and took up those responsibilities
listed above. However, Mr. Hidalgo's performince of duties was interrupted on
two occasions by serious illness, 9-27 March and 15 Aprile3l May 1962, Ho wao
twice hospitalized. Prom 25 June-9 Aujuot.1962, Mr. Hidalgo was on ‘TOY for WH/3
as escort officor for Latin American trainees. Although beset by health and other
personal problems, Hr. Hidalgo seizéd upon each new assignment with his. customary
energy. He proved particularly adept in working as interproter and escort officer
for Latin American trainées, and demonotrated high interest and proven competence
in counterintelligence work. His excellent memory and quick perception were
distinct assete in these undertakings. .

It 10 recommended, however, that. Mr. Hidalgo's next assignnent not carry
responsibility for submeaion of finished papers or staff studies, but be one
entailing duties commensurate with his ability to work effectively with indigenous
personnel and to pursue CI leads through records investigation.

CERTIFICATION ANO COMMENTS,
___BY EMPLOYEE
TCERTIFY THAT THAVE SEEN SECTIONS

sigwATURG OF EuPLOTER

‘AND € OF THIS REPORT.

z BY SUPERVISOR

GORTHE EUPLGVE NAD BEEN iv THid REPORT HAD NOT OE EN BHOWN TO EMPLOYER, GIVE ERPLANATION
Unoer MY subanvision

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

EGUMENTE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

ZT have had insufficient personal contest vith Subjest to make any
meaningful comenté.

* ‘| SECRET


tional “and recruit:
reas 5 inthe U.S.

operat
perationay 3
8 untlaters},imtopenden

ible farspotting,: Antervie

of Cuban etidents ”

‘ar return to Cuba for
RUrposes

is
aot alta S gael ty cece
ecords-andt fi

aayne

tors Sr ne an debrief:
Seana only speaking Agents and ‘con’ ot
forall operational Saétions of the, | &

Oure Noe

jaryihling about the vmployes which lafloeh
‘cooperetlveri
rf

EVALUATION OF ‘OVERALL PERFORMANCE W “CURRENT POSITION

SECTION D-

In the coring boxes

Se ned kee [ieee to

T= Least pei

To Ovrtendig Seeae

WaTiNG.

DOFS His JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT : 7 t x
PACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF It OFFICE ef x
DISCIPLINE IM ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AND DISPOSING OF SECORGS x
rarer Tae
7

SECRET

Foau

tae 45 oniovere previous coprions,



3 ee CRET

Eee Iny

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

ee :
Teertify thot 1 tions A; B, C, 0 ond E of this Report.

fs ae aoe = = BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS © vee Was BeeN Te THis REP
Unban mr suseavision

1 nee

TWAS HOT Gk En SuOwN To EMPLOYER, GIVE EXPLANATION

tp REPORT NOY Bing WnOE AY THD TO

leweiovae Uncen. a\om Leas Twan 0 OAvE
lovmen fapecttyy:

SPriciay TiTta OF SUPERVISOR

D/chiet ; Wi/4/or -
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
EN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUITION. _
TmOULO WAVE 3IVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A KIONER EVACUATION.
TV WOULO HAVE DivEN THis EMPLOYEE A LOWER EVALUATION,
TANNOY TOOT THEE EWACUATIONN 1 am HOT HUPPICIENTUY PAULINA WITH THE EMPLOVERD PERF ORWANER:
Toumtnts OF REViEaING OF FICTAC

SECRET


NOTIFICATION OF CANCELLATION.
OF OFFICIAL COVER ACKSTOP

Ire teTAL CoveR GTECONT MUD

Unblock Records:
{OP Meme 20-8017)

Effective. Eon. eines

“1140 (Ri Return ed ) Ee

eatiovee wos

Submit Form 642 To Chonge Limitation Category. eae
X._} (48 20-8002 to be redesignated HHB 20-7) iz

X_| Retum All Official Documentation To CCS, : ae


ae ‘TEMPORARILY FOR. = "DAYS, EFFECTIVE, -
X bX CONTINUING, EFFECTIVE ROD : ay

SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY TO 3.:
(a 20.800. 2)

ASCeRTAGN THAT ARMY. wW-2 BEING ISSUED.

(HB 20. 662-4)

SUBMET FORM 1322 FOR ane “CHANGE: ASPSCTING THIS COVER,
(8 240-250)

a /SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR. TRANSFERRING. CCVER ResPORSTBILINY,
(240-250)

REMARKS

“@ AAPOR”



TTARY COVER, OACHSTOR CATAQI

| BLOCK RECORDS +

“a. TEMPORARILY FOR ____ DAYS,  ERFECTIVS _

bd. CONTINUING, EFFECTIVE, 50D. iz

ASCERTAIN TSAT ARMY W-2 BEING ISSUSD,
(wa 20.661-4)

SUBMIT FOFM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFE.
(8 280.250)

SUBMIT FORM 1323 FoR TRANSFERRING CCVER
(240-250) :

SUBMIT FCRN 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATSSORY TO 3.
(4B 20.200.)

R RESPONSIBILITY.

$008 1551 enseuers renvsene exsrioee. SECRET



NCELLAT ION:
BACKSTOP

errective 27 October 1960.

SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.
(ua 20.8002) : :

RETURN ALL MILITARY DOCUMENTATION. a : . mnnsin i
REMARKS:

amar racic RAE

ery TT |

IG L bos

Disraieution 1.35

SECRET ae



MEORGT A SOR:

Office. ox Yerroriel .

Personnel Security Division

: MACUEE :
a
SUBJECT :

Effective, frmedietely _y tt ts requested

i “TRRORE) to (eer) eae
OOK) sibject's a ey empley:ent by
dccr. Subjeat de to be eonverted to Steff Snpleyae stab

: within the next few dayse
2 This rerorsidun conCires‘an oral request of 7 March 19689 -

3.



176, as a

CTLEE “pare

AMT

HIPALGO,

8

_ CTR raat ate

1 a2
tu TRE |
41962"

CREbUCES ZF PL Sy
CF UCT. as: OREVIS
vE-O2THS 8 OCT.

5. TOTAL SERVICE FOR LEAVE

TT aE TT a
ra (ae paces
_MEDALCO, B; Ne JRe ae Z Tr au Ee Dana
‘SEPARATION = aaa PRR WY WW eae ka saad | bescorei oon
Ye nei]

-=DISABILITI-U!DER CIA RET
AND DIS SYSTEM EFF 2/28/70

coord to be whect 10 See 203d
ae Met Le Ba

Cor ton 19 008

SUMMARY OF HOME TEAVE Haas

SUMMARY OF ANNUAL AND SKK LEAVE i

oes een et _ a
egy es eee mae WO | ge po aro Tf
oe Cans Sian aan
©. Cart leave vow et ee 2/2 1 nett cat i fascist ape

1970. Lah fu Date one vied, rot 24 mony Hoey
pee [0 i

React wad, any (caren peer!
9 el teers tobe

ms
a

Monty ace dae
acs eeteeata aoe cast

Dey bots teens panad comolated

10, tolonee

_MNILART MAE

11 nln pea on wn a 6B Fa ay

12 Sour ois _$25,173.00______ aa ne anny secnoy

AASENGE WiTNOUT PAY

1S heme wo tone tee

how a 3/02 £20». f/70- 1030

a
13 fron

for Chief Pajrol
a

Sisdind fore Teo
sorember 1963
THos160.

RECORD OF LEAVE DATA

ES CIVIL SRVICE CONMESON:
TRANSFERRED "PM SUPPLEMENTS 31 AND 79042



enjoyavent and eatisiaction,

It takes the conscientious efforts of many Be
people to do the linportart work of this Agency. You
loave with-the knowlsdge that you have persorally
contributed to our ovccess ia carrying out.our mise
sion, Youy fatthful ond leyal support hae measured
up to the igh ideals end traditions of the Federal
service,

May I express to you my appreciation aad
extend my best wiehes for the years ahead.

Heeerely,

“Ge Richard Hoinys

Richard Helms
Director

Distribution:
QO - Addressee
1+ DDCI Originator:

1-ER Director of Persennei

1 - C/EAB/OS
1-D/Pors

1-OPF

1+ ROR SoR File *Concurr _
1 - ROB Reader q C/EAB/OS

OP/RAD/ROB/___}jat/3257 (5 March 1970)



five: ck Roads. : E at
Roékville, Maryland 20851. ; :

Adalgot-

Dear’ Mrs
Té te the practice. of the Organtration to follow-up with
forder enploveaa six'months after their retirenént. We hopa
by auch inquiry eo obtain tnforarion on what our retirees

are dotng and whera they are located, invite. susreations for
Anproving the’ retirement: pragran.and to learn tf the Organt=
zatton misht be of: some aanintancs on any post-retirement =”

matcaras

: Wa ahould Like very much to hear from you on the ahove
points and on amy other toptes you think would be useful to

Use

For your convantence in replying, we hava enclosed a

sheet semeutat akin to a form on-whtch wa have Iisted those .,

standard iterin- of information we'd-1tke to have on: evary re-
ttree, The remainder of the sheet, tneluding the revaraa
side, ts for your comnenta and surgéattons, We shall he
mone apprectative of your fullest reaponse to this inquiry. ,

“Thank” you vary mich for your coopération’

Sincerely yours,

Carroll A, Puchay
Personnel Officer

Enclosurest
Queationnatre
Raturn Envelope

Dineributson:
Original = Adressee
1 = opr
1 = RAD Subject*s Pile

oP /RAD/FFAR{— Flag (32 Aug, 70)



en . ENOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION 0,

1SA3) ret) 7 -_ : “hte

| DOP AR . : cee gatas :

“ERANCH 2 7 7 ea : c Heat
ECT iss: peeaneerenie “ASH, DSC, 5 ‘i
TSaToN Te ; : Thr pose hatte py aetna ;
CFS OFFICER akin 5 sae fa
it EAENCATION SOMEDUIT ET wy [ob OSCAR TURE Yo GRRL awe Bean Oo wT ace
GS 125 135172-
re :
aE SPACE BROW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL i
eae ors ~SfatOn a5 nGRTE [Be wars [8 caTT-Gr Buin [70 Oni OF HAC [ERT OT a :
coon]? aaa” [et Some] coca cone tear oe a :
45_] ic ue : (le | | it
Tt aes SCT Se RE \
batacont HS
= rie dl ae foo bata | | |
Heed hk -rocce -L i i
er Ea Sted Cour oats WG COND Cat a Tactta calTeoey [pe TR. nin ORES WOE TU SS]
er ae oar orl ial ia Rca ‘
fa pataious Cnan Coaiwotnt Secon Tiaaea Taw Bata a
Ce ees 28 aw icoiepion [Stan tania [rome acu H
wo aetae we anv ee) an ~ :
2 oe mato as naa 8: i fm eres
2 arvat om ate oot ree) E
SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUINENTICATION I

Tous Use Previous
‘se 130 Edinon
Mig 1067



7 [ie Bact BisERATON

RR TR ais i Bixteas

0136.0) __1 32 13173

Sana: G8 OTnEY AUTEN. Sotto



ney

8155173

Becotetrrry

anes wor ° °
Cyan status a 09 oF wainno rive
CF ower status at 9 oF vans PCD

be  dedgey

Seok MIS PAY CHANGE NOTIFCATION



“ a cco. NEw
NAME SERTAL GRGN, FUNDS Ga-STED SALERY. . SALARY
HIOALGO 9 N JA (-027630...$1 350 - GS-12 4 $1Z,607 $13,392

BPAY ADUUSTRENT [¥ ACCIODANCE wETa Stcam@y SCmET LES OF Py 99926
PUBguanT Te aUTMOAETY -F PCr ag pRovEtes ty. Tee Cra act GF 494Ge
AS ASENCET, anl aedCE NPRECTYVE Dated @ SCIABFY 1902,"

EFFECTIVE uate OF Pav aQyuSTwent, @ SCTOSFE 1967

oD nee
Naw SEATAL 09Gu, FUAAS GueSTER Sacaky | SaLaXy

WIDALGO BON UR rareso 31 380 vo GS? 4 $12,004 $120697


HIGALSO 8:
arene TR

027639 |
ise Crt

a os
a
GS 19] 3 }14,689].17/19765] Gs 22] 4 brzso08 12/1106 al ie
(re = ro
: p i . ete
/ \’ * NO EXCESS LWOP é cs
+" 6 IN RAY,STATUS AT ENO OF WAITING PERIOD
/ 5." LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD - a
CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED a frag
4 i ie a fn
I CERTIFY. THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEES fe
_ OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE, i -

SIGNATURE: *¥, ai
ns ot Ba es lr

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION



Bie inten ere
ro hE AR

TG ce even as ‘ama

DuP “We
Tr routes ne

Tis eo
|
Cnate VOU “ARE HEREDY KC.
LIRECTGOR CF CENTRAL iNT
20-30, UEN ArrtAL bust

j SSHTOTOUAPPEAL TS WAST.
ENCE TN AR RCANCE Wid The

Ryo
B near VeS aN Tht OFFite ft

aw Geek

JU LACENCAR CAYS FROM Tne GhFoCTI VE Wate Ci Tis ACT Ln,



MPAY ADETEENT IN atc Soy geez

pheGN TE Te core ¢ “SCrELLEES ct
PuneCAC STC RUTECRETY oF. Wr puseiees ferete es
AS AVENTEDS ase! deDCEDITECTIME UATED 8 CCTAEE: §

Ectecttvt cate of ony ADJUSTHENTE F axl

LD New

SEATAL O8GA, FusuS om rN awaRY  Sauaay

S dhs, C2743» (by Sha Ys 55 $11,085

BPPAAS FTL et

t

a oOND EXCESS L BOP
- IR PAY STATUS AT OND OF @AITING PER OD
LOM STATUS AT ENO OF WAITING PEROD
is © CURES Incteans AUODITEO BY
‘ ° .
CERTIFY TraT Tut Oba OF Til ABOVE HANED tur C GT EE IS
AN ACCTR TABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE

ee 2B, 00 ge om : i‘
pone BPR tbe oo!
7 (le PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

paceman cae mary

ace . ee



_ WAS __
Teagan UE : WF Position moi Wy sevice oenGaaON

OPS OFFICER: 7 1318 : °

HC aan caion HoToART LTA) (Biwinaaay saudi [oe Cason and sit Tir ian

os 0136.04,”

roan



”

"Pay AMQUSTREAT Tv OAMANCE aETH GALeaY SCHETULES OF PL 49=302
PURSLAAT TC AUEMORTTY OF DCT AS PEOVIED IN THE Cla ACT UF 1949.
AS AMENDED, ANC WeDCE POLICY DIRECTIVE DATED 4 UCTOBEH 19K,"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT? 10 OCT ara 1965

010 NEW

+ NAME . “SPRTAL -O8GN, FUNDS GResteP SAGAHY SALARY,
: WIDALGO & N Jk 02763" Si Son vy GS 12 2 Sienys $10,987
5
ie)

Y



| MIDAUGO"B Neue,
cc a! :

7 CARTAN DaCAA
; {ODP/WH DIVISTON ae
: WH OC MTAME OPS BR 1 sec

Tre
nPS nF FICER

Te CaO SOOO Coo mets

0130.01

Tans

Ihe tng to:



SFE PATROL! AWE

toaw SP]

eo saan ane is Tw Sata 0a 7h Aon
a Son [Vee (ae | Siey | tense as | ame
6s 8 cy ‘ste.zbd | sare0708 « 6s 4 2 po 12720764 | | ao

Te tenors ong Aumanesamon

7 7 80 EXCESS LWOP

7- 71M Pay STATUS AT-END OF WAITING PERION.

ff UWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
CLERKS INITIALS. AUDITED -8Y

° ° :
1 cerriry Tat THE YORK OF THE ABOVE NAMEN EMPLOYEE is ‘/
or an ‘ACCEPTARLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE, farm

sronsrune 2223 a’ ee : pen cate of peike
3S 6 So” ¢ Boo “sa § 3 "s” Segoe” - 7 2
PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

by

= a
Tr seo To rn



Secret

REGULAR

Tito oa tea HOTT

50 USC NG3.y

| 00P/SAS
| COUNTER

INTELETGENCE ST)

FF

- | WASH. , Cees

OPERATIONS. SECTION:

Tint teoeaTee

Cao E ee Faia maT 7
OPS’ OFFICER. ' 0887 7)
Te Wasa TeDGEE Te TT i aceraTiON TST aa Ha Ty we
ae be GS 1136.01 124
i a weMaaS see i 4 Hf ze
= SPACE BELOW TOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
TAR] tap [OE ie 3 Suatigw | MIECREE PH Wage 35 BATE OF WIN | BATE
37_ 110 149150} SAS _|'75013} Th jos eas tp. !
eae tints wean se evTatweaT bata ePanaTiON” | Counitrion canceltation ATA TRO a ee
|” mttiees — mer ee te 6
* i i[goo sata)!
! = ! feesecleeaet i
5 VEL PREVEREMCE UH SUL cou? OATE | 37. \0nG Cou oni | MLcuNERE Cartoon | 3 AU / PEAT E WG SOCiaL SACUE'TY BO

FROM:

DEV COMP 2



ADIUSTNENT: OF, SALARY RATE “IN. ACCORDANCE” WITH! THE,
_ LOYEES SALARY REFORM
ORITY.OF THE DIRECTOR

-E AS. PROVIDED IN THE ‘CENTRAL |

AND STEP "AS INDICATED IN. CHART BELOW.

"GENERAL SCHEDULE RATES
Federal Employees Salary Act of 1964

ECTIVE ISSUED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE DATED 8 ‘OCTOBER 1962. °

D TO: RATE SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL'S GRADE +

:Per Annum Rates and Steps

|
GRADE}

3 1 4 |

5_| 6 |

7 | 8

‘9

{10

“GS- 1/83.385($3.500

GS- 2/ 3,680; 3,8
GS- 3} 4,005 peer

GS=+ 4 4/480 4,630} «
GS~ 5] 5,000] 5,165

GS- 6} 5,505
GS- 7) 6,050
GS- 8/ 6,630
GS- 9} 7,220
GS-10} 7,909,

8,650} 8,945
GS-12/10,250) 10,605

GS-13]12,075/12,495;

GS~14/14,170/14,660;

GS-15/16,460/17,030;

eae 18,935]19,590
S=17|21,445|22, 195)
Gs-13 124,500]...

83.615193.730
3,930) 4,055,

9,240] 9,53:
10,960/11,315
(12915/13,335

}|20,245|20,900)

22,945 /23,695|24,445

$3,845 |$3,960|
80] 4.305

50
5} 9:830]10,125

11,670/12,025,
13,755)14,175

15,150/15,640;16,130!16,620/17,110,

19,310)

18; 740}
22,210;

21,555

$4,075; $4,190
4,430 55

935,

9, al 9,790;
10,420, 10,715!
12,380(12.735
14,595}15,015,
17,600
20,450
23,520

19,880)
22,865)

$4,305,
0)

10: "O60
11,010
13,090)
15,435,

/18,090

21,020}
24,175

$4,420
1S

Ho" 330
11,305
13/445
15,855
18,580
21,590



NOMFICATION’ OF: PERSONNEL. ACTION

M232 1920,1000

AAS WO3'

oO Pf SAS
CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

To dogation oF OHFicuk SiaTTOR

“PVASH., OC.

Peston TIVE

OPS OFFICER ©

[17 Panton wawnen > awe bisigeaTion

2227 ; ¥

16 Tiassa Om SHE DUE (. We ekewraTicnat Seney

cs 0132.09

Te SRE. aid STEP yi? Suiney Ow RATE

121 | 2920 |

Ta amare
OTRER

Th wtientt
cont

(EAU

TO Weer 1H Galt oF ante
(oe

Dati Wac

ae ae aerate

Cw canite cattcoar



aaa

[413220941990

FORWARD. Ornate STATION a sive:

Ti tocation oF orca aon

JMWAVE

cL SECTION i
Trainee RE i ro wane Ta avin vine
OPS OFFICER jo731 0

COTE TER LH eT i aire eT

Gs

ia)

We Ghabe ane Te

| TF sauder ob wae

‘rGE CooiNe
coat

Bh witeatt

THe Magn |B bate OF Mata

i

a
ton BATA
sees aia ~
aT Te iran

Tete av aat

=



i : : \

IN ACCORDANCE ETN THE PREVISTONS oF PURLIC Law 870793 ann Oder
MEMORANDUM DATED -1 AUGUST 19565 Sauany IS ADJUSTEL AS FOLLOWS,
EFFECTIVE 3 JANUARY. 19440

dD ee a cio) New
SERIAL ORGN FUNDS GReST Sabarky Sacagy

7 027630 49 730 CF “GS 12 1 8 90475 § 99080 fe



. SUCRE!
(Whien Filed ta 7

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL. ACTION.

Te cOCaT Ga OF OFFHGaG: STH

JMWAY!

Tia: Ponition nowt

WW stevece sesiGuation

pi20

OPS OFFICER O73 ay
Taian TE Oo ee a Tir a i
0136.01

Won ave

Tae agen 53. Gate oF |

i

Paras oe cs age mn
22 Le fuszan | a | Fea
Metts if vic (io iow | 3 COweCTiow CaNetitation Gate

ce

Bt renee

oo



_ SUCHET
(Whe Pulled ta)

3152 2001

(om KMEDULE (US, U8, oh)

8S.

0136.01

| orgs,
oy GUDE aid $F maa oe wT

Le
[ss

CT ae “Pie toCaTIgN OF OFFICIAL BTaNTON i
‘por SPECIAL AFFAIRS STAFF
jako OPERATIONS STAT IONCUMlAve:« :
C4 SECTION - ;
#7 i IMA!
Toniae HAE Tie rion wae 7 Wiel sree
OPS OFFICER pace
Tr acaTon Tat

“13

WW action 30 Eaplr |
cook | “toa

110

i

whiter

Pia

WT sired a conetCTeR/CNCLATON
ota (oot

i

retro

en [as

{2

ier a

7830 MI

EOD DATA “i
“eo

We Fo0iat Siewert no

130

Use Previous
Easton

a? SECRET 25703



NOTIFICATION ‘OF PERSONNEL ACTION oa

TC

PEGULAR.” :
Two oie ee eee

‘pue?

Taare

i oo RTE

82321000 1000 |

Semen = a or ATT a

ODP/SPECIAL AFFAIRS STAFF ee : ;
FI/CL BRANCH ana WASH:, D.C. | . -

‘Ticrammarie ca ae ane ae TTBS
OPS OFFICER ae pesos ep
Te CARSITICATION SEMLOUTE (OR, LL we) iw “OfturaTesaat ates [ie Gaaae ano SrtP 7 saiaar co tate
cs lor36.01 hw 2040

sist SFFich OF beso}
A Tap [a a tia Te peg [BHC OF TE
oor)” oo"

weer a on i tow ee m7
4S [10 i i i ps j27)19
BTW bia te canaicibated Ton
“ " | 7,

[a



GG ART
_ REGULAR
Pata ora aT

50 USE 403,"

(ODP _TASK ‘FORCE "Ww" tines
D. Ce

F1-C1 -BRANCH i WASH., .
Tao WE TT roc wa a Te oe
: CPS OFFICER 0682 im
1 aOTON TARTS UE wT Teen HT aE TT Ta at aE
cs |o¥a6-o1 mus | | asuo

TON ERCLUSIVE Use Gr Tar OFFICE OF PERSONA ——
Fiat a iat ih [ww tae Ta OT

{Hy ce Pasa a os
1 05,27 )19 | NEE [ea

1 cencrigneunutation saa (akon ie
« :
a [rome para! a m0
I bie l

pe SOM HOOT wo

Wien) 0 tom TR. evvCE Conia
cae | too

37. |10 61300 |-TFW
a Mina wow
Tote

= a

Teeeea fa

fon
ey



core on eeyae rect
ci eg? = 4TH “eR 0y asyens

sey oaRasee SO DATER! Jy RISUST 1086 6 aauaey
TSaet 1962

"eg BLS cue ie :
Nass SeRfak ORIN FINDS G2ST SaLany  chaST Sarat
HiDALso BN JR ‘sareae 4075 Vo WS 8 83ea TSS Aged

ao

s + Br089 0 0371976

10 xe EXCESS LP 7 “7 EXCESS Un-P
7) FAM PAY STATUS AT END OF MAITING PERIOD
2 'f 1M LWOP. STATUS .) nie OF WAITING SEO

: cay en ae Cippireo av a

rt enemy
a, $00 7. -

" 7 = 793" ,,ANS ie
1s acesteR"AS FELL.



SECRET

Whea Filled In}

T tettony oF twice

REGULAR: :

Ge TETRA aT

re ee
mana wea
| 00P wa ee
PLANS & OPERATIONS STAFF |=
SECTION A. aa

Tk PourTiow HE

“OPS OFFICER

WaT TH we 7 Re Tas

Wail Fein
(oat er

37

Bee : i
Bw fe |
[Fe ry | he

“a soci UE

ete

;

Use Previous

68) Tare



ARE:1¢ AUG 1961,

lace

Titan eseae

027630 _ HIDALGO | BNR

Taatwtt @ reason

REASSIGAMENT ANO TRANSFER. TO

Ta aay AST eb wore

f Earicrtar

VOUCHEREO. FUNDS | 08.20.61 REGULAR

Tae Fae PF GaN Guida > Geant 02a 0-44 a anTRSRTD
+ rom by :

one wwe | 2635 5000 6c21 Su USC 403 Jv

7 oetiniiTioa BiveaaToak

DOP WH
BRANCH Y
FI Ct SECTION

OPS OFFICER

1 wwe

acai ce curt SrenerEET

4000

Thane
auatet



HIDALCO BON JO

RATE Te cae nATE seat
vay tary” tan Dow | Giade 7 rise Bo
2 r ve ovranred n
tee ere eer Eee geen Get ceeueets (aerate

y

HA FYCFSS LWOP

TN PAY. STATUS ATOEND OE OALTING PE GTOD

7 # PH LWOP STATUS AT FRO OF GALTING Pr RTOD

°, 5 aed
PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION
SECRET iw

= ‘Cheigie Prevaus
$60 poet



SECRET ind : co

(Wen Pied A

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION a

Tana eae 1? MEURTVD BOOT)

t
827630 __t wteayeo ah yf

7 Wha oF ferme we Tin aT FCC OF via tar

Status... [os

.o3| 17 o2 2 a
Ce ee
32. ee pipseiansteniainty

0 ean oF OF aus Stance

Ti RTT a i

SECRET



IN ACCORPANTE WITH THE POOVESIONS OF Os Le 86-566 AND OCL MEMO CATED

1 AURUST 195K— FALAMY TS ANJUSTFO AS FOLLOWS FFFEOTIVE LO JULY 19606

sh NAME SEATAL ORGN GReST OLA SALARY NEW SALARY
- © HIDALGO BN UR 527630 46 17 GS-11 2 $ 79270 S 79820
ase EMMETT Oe “ECHOLS

DIRECTOR NE PERSONNEL

fee



AES: 28 JUNE 1900

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TP Nise Canthaa- Wedded
| mec HIOALOO B/N UR

tj CHG Cinar Copal Kaonty ‘
vn:
insce | 50 usca 4033

Ta Organaahonsl Den graven

Das OTR
OPERATIONS SCHOOL
COVERT TRAINING

(WASH., D. Cy

13613

ar Panton Vile

<

Ta. Feazam Fis,

1018

ta.

pt Bi

FF Nate Gt Acca

REASSIGMENT

3%, Location

[4617 | wast.
38

i Ong fe

Bu %

(hase) 30. Separation Dita

Graven Gede

Ch Gireal Seen

0136.07

< 4

Sa jie are Ye i Mo.
S02 TR, SE [037

en oR

ary Or Revo
o

rarest)

Flunber

50195 OCC 100C



HIDALGS BM Uke dassT Ane 3] |

NEW SALARY RATE

Sf oe [ow |

: Ul rere
va | at [oe [es mp2 [s reer0 | os} zo] $9
OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER

Lip mean cee pom youas emer

[6 Wertiand AF Citan

Vales $600 SECRET PERSONNEL FOLDER |,

Ae.



ea

JJEC 12 JUNE 59
]®. None (anf Madi)

HIDALGO BLN JR : te let ag Rese ;
CSL Ba TCO Cir Cogs Ran

PREVIOUS ——
Fa Cepanrotonsl Dengaawon : Cade JAS. Letaucn Ol Ollal Seaton Tinos Code
loop WH
BRANCH VP1
CENTRAL AMERICA SECTION 4613 |WASH., D.C. (75083,

ou 17. Bowed fe 18. Fi as Vi Sen TO Cxcas. Soret

Ren

aaa ACTION \S i
7m Te [98 EI Ose aaa Code, 30” Se:

aN eos ay
TRAEPER TO, _
coy { 06, va, in arsuaad’ we NO jot |

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
Code

T3R. Leccuen OF Choral 51

JOPERATIONS SCH

na - :

COVERS TRAIHING S. jiiqe puke, 0. ce 17913

[SS Ponion Na [58 Seer 37. Cazes Sarat |
S

514 ATM. 50

aie Sis Ore
|s yo30

Wtan'sy 11509



eee See, See tee See

GENERAL SCHEDULE SALARY INCREASE RETROACTlaiLY EFFECTIVE

ano OCT

IZ JANUARY 1958 AUTHORIZED BY Pe Le 85 - &

DIRECTIVE. SALARY AS OF 15 JUNE 1998 ANSLS AS FOLLOWS

NAME _. SESLAL .... GRAQE“S3EP SLT ZALARY” NEW SALARY
LMIRALGO @ 8 50 127634 CS-11-1  kyt80 s 7,039
GORDI My STEWART
/S7 DIRECT. AF PERSONNEL
Se CRE t



_ SECRET ear

(lanes Lite 3) eae

Pn 4
ROTIRCATION of PeeconNEL ACTION . | .

oboe al TS Sez

58.

Te. Name (an FieAAadle)

JGALMES IN, HIDALGO, JR.

HIDALGO BN UR

Reet 19: CSO Cr Che Load Ranty

Rood
ser

! ty [ramet iM 1

[8 Bont Ander RGU GIs, TC

‘Me ive Code] Wo

Foe!

10,

. PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
14 Organizotional Dengnouars Code] 15, Location Of Ofheral Station

Ti. einen Yala

i
Te. Boution No. TS Sen FCS Sores

usta & | :
Fran 28.
21 Grade @ Seo [32 Salary Or tone Es. SD TE6. Appropriation N=: ar™
A Same aa Bs Mo a |
| : J
ACTION
aT. Fiatwe Cl Action j Case 8. type Ot Exployow ie TD Sercanen Da
j vr 1
IEXCEPIEO APPOINTMENT fa ; iG
CORRE CTION® 3 i c3' 17 58) REGULAR for
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
pico SST Sasa TE Location OF Oe beavon
oP va

e2ancH V4

|
Hhery ic WASH. » De
TS

Se
PTKES ACTION CORRECTS SF NISC EFF YT MAR 58, FEM rel THE NAME
EALMES N, HIDALGO 10 READ GALMES N. HID, es



SECRET
(shon filled tn)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
a V7MAR 53 -

. Roce Can Fine Maddie) [Dew OBR Te Var
GALMES N, HIDALGO ios | as oe
V9 1

HIDALGO _BALMES .N y 15 le [bee

18. CSC Or Okor Legal Rathi

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Ta Organzandnal Dengnabons z Code | | 15. Location OF Offcral Stan20 Staton Ci
i

BO. Okc Sarat

8. Partion No-

130. Separation Data

(27. Nowe Of Acron

43 103. 117 156_|_ REGULAR
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

JEXCEPTED APPOINTMENT

31. Organizsuona! Dengranons: | Code 137 Location OF Oficial Station mn Ce
he WASH.» 0.6 i 75013

34. Peanon Tile 35, Panton Nav 735 Serv 37 Ohcen Sen
i

[__ 0138.01
Tsbee

|AREA OPS OF O86 * a $
38. Gers 19 & Sino | 39 Solow Gr Rare 40 SD 43. Acprope

FOSizD

we
28

DP

Vaner 1950



FITNESS “PTS

1966 - 1% P



= . va SECRET

canbe Fatted te)”
Tumcoved ScHIAL NUUDER

FITNESS REPORT: G27 50

[aeeciac Gree =i
Wivgare meront ove war Bevanring PERIOD (Frm te
er Ly

“Perlormonce: " han category requires

PSttnve cemed "range Wom coun: to further tealning, fo placing on
tctibe action token or proposed In Section Ge

Performance meets:all requirements, It le-entirely satisfactory and Is choroctarlaed neither by deficliney nor

excallence.

Pettormance ta more thon satisfoctory. Desired results ure being produced in o proficient manner.

Peckormance {2 cheracterited:by exceptional prsticloney.

Performance ia 49 exceptional in colation ta requirements of the work and in comparison to the performonce of

others doing stmlse

which best describes the
Trav dutye Al

; averted,

esk Officer respousible for the Suppore | faves

of Miami Station CL/CE activities and operations, P

Srecisic ures? “Advisor to various components of the Wil and WE Divi-

sions on Cuban operations with specific reference to the Cuban Se-:

curity Intelligence Service, organization, modus operandi and
oo ——Dersonmets 1 warine

TARR
foreign Liaison services and selected agents visiting in fer

|Washington on the Cuban Security and Intelligence Services ‘and his |

wn unique-experience-in -the-Communist-Partys
‘ransfator/interpreter: Served as consultant to WH Division

on Cuban spanish,

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 9

¥
cerren

OVERALL P.
Saeneanins 78s
about the employee which influence: ifectivens: Current heptapepereniat ber beedghieues
ch apectiie duties, prodwetistyy € : rite or hover
rot 2 Baeed on your bao aug! pha rang fates! S
ol petforeroncee

RFORMANCE IN CURRENT PO! TIO

ome

$29" 45 onsdheve eaxvious corrions, SECRET



SECTION C

Mr. ilidalgo is an able intelligence; sof ticee Sly
Profession and selfless in his desire to be of sanyice to cl ayaa
ment, Although, he liad suffered ill health -in rece\@dpgars,: he was in-
sistent that he be among the first to be sent to the Dominican Republic
when the crisis occurred, i

An tatense person, Mr. Hidalgo is industrious, works wéll undey
pressure and sets high standards for nis performance, Because he is ine
tent on getting things done, he is occasionally hasty iti judgment and in
written presentation of the results of his research and conclusions. He
is perceptive, quickly accepts suggestions and offers counter-proposals
with cogent argument. Mr, Hidalgo was not in a supervisory capacity.

He was cost cons\ious; always endeavoring to be conservativ2 where possiblq
He ts an effective and cooperative member of an office, ready

to assume responsibility and to help his colleagues. Thanks to his
unique experience’ on the Cuban target, he has wide knowledge ot the
Cuban problem and is, in fact, an expért on the Cuban Security aru In-
telligence Services,

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE

CHAE MOTTE eS eee eae ape ae
«darling ™{

‘BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I concur with the supervisor's assessment of Nr. Hidalgo

with @B8 exception to the statement ihat Subject works well
under pressure. He is indeed an intense person and, under

great pressure, his involvement affects his performance; and even
‘more important, it has a very bad effect on his health. . With
this consideration noted, the undersigned thinks very highly of
Mr. Hidaigo and would be pleased to be associated with him again.

ee

THES OR PAINTED NAUE AND HENATERE

TOPPICIAL iV Ct OF WEWIEWING OFFICIAL

rag 1
9 December 1965 | C/WH/C’O > | watter 1. cant ee cere

SECRET



us SECRET

Canin Filled in)

“FITNESS REPORT

GENERAL

Jom whally Inodequate
ne The nature of the

P+ Proficient, Perloemonce 1s more then &:
7 SHong Performance

+ Outstanding Performances se axcent
sa others doing similor work

to worrent spectal recognition.

to requirements of the work end in comparison to the petfermence of

formed during #
ms EACH apecilic duty. Consider O1
1d on thelr ability t.

sercirie Hay fclpated (with other WH/SA/CI officers) in-the handling and
debriefing of a defected intelligence officer housed in the Headquarters

area. Cait

seatinie Bory woe ¢
Served as Headquarters desk case officer for several counterintelligence

operations--prepared cables, dispatches, and memoranda pertaining
e operations, ..

sere to thes:
ieeeire Bure ne

Assisted in translations and preparation of operational documents in
Spanish (s/w messages, .cover letters, owvl messages, etc, ).

sresirigetved as case officer for a counterintelligence operation (the agent
was located ) which included the debriefing, assessing,
training, and dispatching of Te agent to a denied area'(Cubs),

sPecine OUT

waving |

seeame our net :

. |

cerves

art poston teh os par |
caine

i fecpermbeaneie ee
is! employee's overall

particulier limitations or
place the letter in the Fe box corvesoond

29 MAR 1965.0

ES2" 45 cosorere eaevious coirions,

ayiNg
Cerra



Mr. Hidalvo's fluent knowledge of Cuban Spanish, hishgy Betws
experience in.DD/P Cuban operations, and.his broad knowledge. of Cuba
-(people, geography, customs, éte.) -niade hima particularly usetyh arebY
vérsatile operations officer during his aSsighment in the WH/SA
countérintelligence operations section, As indicated in Section B-—-
(epecific duties) he 'perfornied:a wide variety ‘of duties. :

Mr. Hidalgo approached ard performed his assignments with cnthisiasni,
‘keeness, dedication, and proniptness. -He displayed a partioular talent for
conducting debriefings, .and it-was in this type activity thathe performed best,
He also writes well which added to his-debriefing capability as well as to
his performance. as a Headquarters desk operations officer in. writing cables,

e sd re
eiepal pear Pete ee TUE. ss HYerdge ss SRL igus vied siccuys te jn the

Mr, Hidalgo performed most of his duties with a mitiimum of supervision,
* Ina few instances, ‘however, ,he had a tendency (in his eagerness and desire
to get the job done well) 'to become impatient with the slow and deliberate
pace of progress:which is sometimes necessary.in operational activities,
In these few instances, Mr.. Hidalgo's work required supervision by a _

senior operations tall

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS.

impatience is with administrative delays rather than with operational problems
which he understands fully and handles well, He has had problems with his
health but these largely have been overcome and in the past 9 months have not
impeded, his operational usefulness. As of the date of this fitness report, he
appears fully capable of handling any CI or FI operation assigned to him.’

| CWH/SA Cl iWH/C/SP) ( Harold F. Swenson
SECRET the

conve emPCover
Usoan wy surenvinion,
11 Months.
23 March 1965
3.
CGuMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL fa
Mr, Hidalgo is a sound operations officer with native fluency in Spanish. His


[fewronany
[Fewronany

jou Inatvuttions Section C)

is irom-wtly Inodenwate fo 2 then sotiefectory. A retiag Im thi &

wm. The ncture of the scitan could range from counveling, vs further train

tion, 10 reassignment ‘os to separation. ascribe action token or proporaa in Section Ge ©
al raguirement tH U8 antinaly sevistoctory nd 14 choractericedbalther by daflclenéy ner

‘excellence.
P- Proficient Pertormarice is more then sotislectory. Desired reiulis ove being produced in @ proficlent manne.
3 = Stiong Performance 1s choractérlzed by excoptiona! proficiency.
0+ Quistonding Performance.is +2 oxceptlsnel ia ral ot of the wisk ond In coupariton 10 the performance of
: ‘cihers doing similer work a to worrant spectal recognit

at SPECIFIC buries —

List up to°six of the most important specific, duties performed during the rating
‘eof that duty, All employees

Imannor in which 10 performs EACH specific duty. Conssder ONLY effectiveness in porfor
ith superetsory responssbilitign MUST be rated on thei gbility 0 supervise Cinaieare mumber of empiovees:supervices

WaciFic GuTY NOT 7 =a Tears
To effect security serecnings of PBRUMEN refugees arriving in the
. UMWA.E area from PBRUMEN in joint collaboration with ODENVY

re ntatives, in -
AFecintc ovT¥ NO?

fo interrogate, PBRUMEN security suspects, surfaced by the above

screenings and other means, in conjunction with representatives

of the KUJUMP interrogation center iiesuetien,. i NS

SPECIFIC BOTW NGF

To supervise the interrogation efforts of. three KUJUMP inter-
rogators connected with the JMWAVE/KUJUMP. KUDESK debriefing

program.

SPECinie DUTY Ni

To prepare and present to his immediate supervisor completed
interrogation reports.

send aneaaeae dau as fessbas Tens ensta Tanai : Tearing
: Cevree

Ravina

Toke into account everything cbout the employee which Influences his of cerren
formance cific duties, productivity,

imitanions oF tolents. Based on Y
sloce the letter in the rating box correspond 3 s

27 SEP 1963,._—~



SECRET me

then Fetiee: ted

os

co-workers “and ‘other -ODYOKE represenratives with whgm he is eaiia a
t. 3, He receives. bis assignments cheerfully and w Bitte, colsha
yFoaches all: Of <b tasks with great zeal. He devotes an inordi-~
nate’ amount-of his ovn personal time to his duties in an effort to
achieve perfection and Sets very high standards for his own performance
The person being -rated'-speaks native Spanish and le to accomplish
alf of his..interrogations in -Spanish. ‘This abditity: .great asset
to him in his work and redounds in Pcae ae to the KUDESK effort of
the Station.

The person being rated is dn aéconplished interrogator and thus
receives very little guidance in his work. His ability to t:
security suspects in contradictions is unique and is paying dividends
in the WAVE KUDESK field of endeavor. He has shown mature’ judgment
in the Bandling of ‘complex security cases, balance in appraising the
interrogation results and.in recoi 1 action, and proficieycy
in the preparation of his An recommenda cm Gare He is currently super.
the interrogation activities‘of three KUSUMP interrogators Gy
SEE and has shown an ability in establishing personal rapport witl
these interrogators and proficiency in drecting “their activities. It is
recommended from the standpoint of his career development that after thq

completion of his current paneer rEg fhe Apa being, rated be moved i:
& Q ts KUDESK field of

to

‘BY SUPERVISOR

SORTS EMPURTER EAS Bean — iF tain SWOT BEEN SnGeN FO Eur VEE, IVE EXPLANATION
" ; At_time preparation this report employee was on TDY
4 months | Has and leave. Will be shown him upon return. .
oatE [SPFiGiA TITLE OF SUPERVisON "71 #ED On PaINTED NAM AND BlONATORE

i /a/ Heid T. PICKWORTH
4 September 1963 : Chief, CI Branch, DSAVE (signed-in peewdo on Fld. Trans.)
2 eae BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
COMUENTS GF REVIERING OFFICIAL ;
Subject is a hard working, dedicated, productive intelligence officer
who has completely mastered those basic tools of the trade which are
needed in CI activities, ‘Subject has and uses native Spanish language
fluency, Subject's performance during the period covered by this
fitness report warrants an. overall evaluation of "Strong." As a
result, it is believed that Subject is a well-qualified journeyman
who hag earned a promotion to the grade of GS-12, Subject is strongly
recommended for proiytion to the; grade of GS-12, Subject has additiond)
growth potential as an intelligence officer, Subject's activities
come to the attention of the Reviewing Officer on a bi-weekly basis,

eave ~ Tarver Tee oe

ia” ESBS Ga Pant EO NAME ANE FiONAPURE

ydes : _ Jaf andrew X, RETTIUS
18 September'i963 Chief of Stationj/JMWAVE (signed in pseuto on Fld. Ti

RET ewINE OF

SECRET ce)



Ti DATE REPORT QUE IN OP,

30 October _1962_

A rating tn thin candgory voquleve
tecther maining. 0 placing’ on
: r lo Section =
AvAdasuate “Poitewmance mest ol enquvementac:H\n'eticaly setiafectity nd 1n'charactrized asthe By diftency dar ~
tacellonces
P+ Proficient Performance is more thon setisfoctory. Desired results ore being produced in o proficient manner.
S-Siong Performance 1s chorecierised by etceptlonel pellelency.
0 = Questending Parformence Is 40 exception

others doing similar work a¢ te warraa? apecial

List up to six of the most Important specific di ing the rating period. Invert toting lettor which bewt describes the
Imcnner in ubich employes poeteems EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY allectivencss la performance ef the! duty. All employens
with supervisery responsi 's MUST be rated on their ability 10 supervise (indicate aunber of 2:

3eeCwIe DUTY NOT

Responsible for initiation and development of WH Division durable assets
program.
Trecivic ooTW oF

Coilate and maintain files on espionage laws of LA countries.

SPECIFIC DUTY NOS
Gives lectures a3 guest instructor to students attending School of
International Coamuniam.

formance of specie dunes, produc tn, jobs coopera

Jvorticular limitations er talents. Based on your Knowledge of employ

ERE" 4S oosocere eaevious corrions.,



SECRET.

Xr. Hidalgo joined WH/PO/A-in November 1961 and took up those responsibilities

Listed above. However, Mr.-Hidalgo's performance of duties was interrupted on

occasions by serious illness, $27 March and’15 April-3i May 1962. He was
twice hospitalized. From 25 June-9 Augiist 1962, Mr. Hidalgo was on TOY for WH/3
as escort officer for Latin ‘American trainees. Although beset by health and other
personal problems, Mr. Hidalgo’ seized’ upon each hew assignment: with’ his customary
energy. He proved particularly adept in working as interpreter and escort officer
for Latin American trainees, and demonstrated high interest and proven competence
in counterintelligence work. His excellent memory and quick perception. vere
distinct assets in-these- undertakings. - . _

It 19 recomended, however, that Mr. Hidalgo's next assignnent not carry
resrousibility for submission of finished papers or staff studies, but be one
entailing duties commensurate «ith his ability to work effectively with Anaigensiis
personnel and to pursue C1 leads through records investigation.

B, AND C OF THIS REPORT.

_ SUPER Lien fs.

SVE, Give EXPLANATION

[OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR [ivPeo on epinrecpaue ai

18 Seztember 1962

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

eoumet nT OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I have had insufficient personal contact with Subject to make any

" peaningful coments.

Tarricinn TitLe OF we viewING OFFICIAL te



2 Aiea ta)
Wace (Last-Firet-Widale),

Hirao Bal mi

ATTACH To OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

CERTIFICATION OF SEPARATHNG EYPLOYEE

MEMORANIXM FOR “THE RECORD

I hereby acknowledgé the receipt co tre folioving forms and/or information concerning ay.
separation fron. CIA as indicated oy check mark:

i. ‘Standard Form 8 (Notice to Federal Employee about Uneaployment Compensation).

Standard Form 55 (Iotice of Conversion Privilege, Federal Employees’ Group

2.
Life Insurance).

Standard Form 55 (Agency Certification cf Insurance Status, Federal Ezployers'
Group Life Insurance Act of 1954).

4, Standard Fora 2802 (Applicat ion for Retund of Retirement Deductions).
re cf’ Kien fitte

Form 2595 (Authorization,for Disposition of Paychecks).
ceae

Applicabie to returnee (resignee from overseas assignnent).
I have been advised of ry right to have a medical examination before
this Agency and of the importance of such avmedical

ny seperation fron
check to ry health and weil-being. oe
© Appoin to arre with Office of ical Services.
O Appeintrent for Office of Medical Services examination declined. -

J. Ihave been inforned of “onfiict of interests” policy of the Agency and
foresee no problen in this regard concerning my new exploynent.

Form 71 (Application for Leave).

CSC Pamphlet 51 (Re-exployrent Rights of Federal Exployees Performing Armed

Forces Duty).

Leave or Active Military

10. Instructions fer returning to

by IOAG 27 970
AdGréés (Stvect, City, § aoe ae Corresponience
Ale
YO3 Sstver Acc Ao “dé 2897 eee CJ covert

(he VERN. HAG SECRET

x6646



Sra (anceps

ELECTION, DECLINATION, OR WAIVER IMPORTANT
* OF LIFE INSURANCE -COVERAGE. | AGENCY INSTRUCTIONS
eogesL EWALOTEES GROUP LIFE TASURANCE PROGRAM’; ON BACK OF ORIGINAL

TO. COMPLETE THIS. FORM—

“gq FOLLOW. THESE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:

1 © Read the back of the “Duplicate” carefully before you fll in the torm.
‘* Fill BOTH COPIES of thefofim. Typoor use ink.”
© Do not detach any part.

FALL IN-THE-IDENTIFYING INFORMATION: ‘BELOW (plecie print or type).
2 AME att a tigate ATE OF BIRTH (enoath, day, year) |
SS sranlnes Nieves i Moy 27 1919

yee Serlel Number 27630. oe
EWPLOTING O€PARTWENT OR AGENCY LOCATION (City, State, ZIP Code)

MARK AN “X" IN ONE OF THE BOXES BELOW: (do NOT mark more than one)?

ELECTION OF OPTIONAL (IN ADDITION TO REGULAR) INSURANCE
id authorize the required: deductions

Mark bere

if you

WANT BOTH 7 the full cost of the optional insurance.
‘opttonal and Ths optional maurance 6 m.sddition to my regular insurance.

regular

insurance

DECLINATION OF OPTIONAL (BUT NOT REGULAR) INSURANCE

Mak here

it you { detiine'the $20,060 additional optional insurance. | understond that 1 cannot elect o
in . itsanal optional insurance. a f oa

DO NOT WANT {71 tonal insurance until ut least I year after the effective date of this declination and unless

OPTIONAL but at ine time | apply fer it am under age 50 and present satisfactory med.cat evidence

aeiaaat LJ Stinsurabiuty t understand aizo that my regular ngurance fs not stected by ha vecting

eciat 1B) ton of aacitonal optional insurance.

insurance

Mark here WAIVER OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE

it you 1 desire not to be insured and 1 wawe coverage under the Federal Employees Group Lite

WANT NEITHER, Insurance Program | understand that | carnot.eancel this warer and obtain regular in:
reguiar nor ‘unt at least 1 year after the effective date of this watver and unless at the time
optional surance am uncer age 50 and present satistactory medical evidence of in-

{C) surabiity. # understand also that | cannot now or later have the $10,000 auditional

insurance ‘optional msurance unless | Pave the regular insurance,

SIGN AND DATE. IF YOU MARKED BOX “A” OR “C", “FOR EMPLOYING OFFICE USE ONLY
COMPLETE THE “STATISTICAL STUB." THEN RETURN | -~
THE ENTIRE FORM TO YOUR Lehane ‘OFFICE.

13 Fetri-ry 1963



APPOINTMENT AFFIDAVITS

IMPORTANT.—Before swearing to these appointment affidavits, you should read and understand

the aztached information for appointee

WASHINGTON, D.C.
‘ice etre

4 do solemnly ewear-(or sffirm) that—

1, ...
AL OATH OF OFFICE

T will support and defend the Constitu of the United States against all encinics, foreign and

domestic: that-I will bear true_faith und wee to the same; that I take this obligation freely.
without any mental reservation or Eurpose of evasion! ‘Avill Well and faithfully discharge the
duties of the office on which I am about to enter, SO HELP ME GOD.

8. AFFIDAVIT AS ¥O SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY AND AFFILIATION
Tam not a Communist or Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I knowingly a member of any

anigation that advocates the overthrow ofthe constitutional form of the Goven:ment of the

organiza
United States, of which seeks by force or Violence to dehy other pérsons their rights under_the
Constitution of the United States. ‘I do further swear (or affirm) that I will not so advocate,

nor will I knowingly become a member of such organization during the period that I am an em-
ployee of the Federal Government er any agency thereof.
¢. AFFIDAVIT AS TO STRIKING ‘AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

I am not participating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any
agency thereof, and I will not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United
States or any agency thereof. Ido net and will not asscrt the right to strike against the Govern:
ment of the United States or any, agency thereof while an employee of the Government of the
United States or any agency thereof. “I do further swear (or altirm) that I am not knowingly a
member of an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the
Government of the United States or any agency thereof and 1 will not, whils an employee of the
Government of the United States ec any agency thereof, knowingly become a member of such an
organization.
D, AFFIDAVIT AS TO PURCHASE AND SALE GF OFFICE

Thave not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred, promised or paid any con+
sideration for or in expectation or hope of-receiving assistance in securing such appointment.

E. AFFIDAVIT AS TO DECLARATION CF APPOINTEE
The answérs.given in the Decisration of Appointee on the reverse of this form are true and

correct. peer ae
ve Lilie.

old, Mar Si

(Daze of emuruace vo diy)

Sudsenbed and sworn before me this 13.28... ay of
Washingtany......

at ..
ten)

[seat] f
Apreintaant. Clare
roo)

the date of expiration of kis commission should
pone

NOTE.—If the-oath is taken before « Notary Pub:
be shown,



"DECLARATION OF APPONTEE

This forma ts to be complete’ beter -criru..cy ou duty. Afiiwer all Guéstions: Admitted uiifavorable
Sofoer alice, alsar uch matters as artesta of discharges will be coniuilered-togethet with the favorable information,

fm your record in, deterninmg your present fitness for Federal employment. However, a-false statement of
dishonest answet to any'questisa thay be grounds’ for'disitissal after appointment and is punishable by law.

Limiter thay
Toi uate oF at =] OO AGE Ge Entn (esty and Stato or ly ond Forvign sounty)

AV: fue Lichtin Z
Tow os @ omtowls, Rae tet [Ca aa pense To Tis oo.

Ahewese Meoake. | ‘

(Coons Tar anteD STATUS GURNEY WAST
at orrae avonead

Tee ast a wots]
bead (Give eroed noenbers ang)

Heo, for exch such fatet

|) INDICATE ANSWER BY PLACING “~x* IM PROPER coLuMM | YES) HO

DGG ane vou a citaen OF Tot Waite Starrs oF Awieca of GH) AG 8
nk OF Aur incaw Sauda 09 You Sak KAGAN TO Tet PE
Siates ov Autmncat

iL OR CMPLOWTE OF WT STATE TERRITORY, COUNTY, O8

|" SEeaRee, TREO A WAnTA OF LOPE IXSuRANCE COVTROOE
ARDC HGRA cunts CaDUPLAE cance Ae

Tin rou anan 1 F vow whet PtD SUH A WATER, MAS IT BLEN casenurD ow ||
Moca mee

I pour aniwer to Yu give deta in Ynen 12

arorvint tena
vou ctrot nas ho saracrene

| cores wank nts or arenncronn

| gat ra ee eno art ermeat sorneaton ah
Ur eistecest wor sarin

(AO caranens esr stancroan

mt poy ty ocemanceD sao not anuen semves wtoea
1B por names aA, Bor C in 'You"* gre dots
Them ld avvientip ae you can remember Ainchush

0
arts Seon tet or Cte wm cov eee OA
BEER And fekcion 08 otra Couns aR CT ON Noo

TINO OFFICER. —You must determiog that thirypgrwiniment would ho TToaformance
Cus pertaining (0 appabmiyent.
‘eudzenship, and mem,
nature and handweiting
certificate,

INSTRUCTIONS TO APPOL
with the Civ Service Act, applicable Chil Sormmee Rates and Regulations, and acta of C

‘This form should be checked for Bakting of affice, penwon, any record Cf recent discharge or arres
bers of farmly. Also, to establih Ibe nientiiy of the eppantee, you should particularly check (1) bi
‘against the epplication and /or other pectuaeat papers aud (2) hus phymeal appearance ag.anst the medic



SECRET : eee

.. (eee pettee

Noie that your qualifications afe d matter of-computer record. they must be Berioaicaliy updated, ‘This ws done auto-
matialiy jor-riuch information, Roweter, some must be otained directly from you. This form 13 for that-purpose.
Section f must be completed in all cases. You rived prorate.ofher infarmation only if there have been changes since
you submutted your Farm 4441, “Qualifications Supplement to the Personal lustory Statement, oF a previous update form.
Hyon are tn doubt wNether information has been previously andrutted, enter tt in the appropriate section. The signed
and duted form should be returned through agmmnistrative channeis (0 the File Room, Ofice of Persoitiel, Room $8-13
Headquarters, whether information ts added or-not.

fake place at any time there vs information to be added-or changed stmply

Additionally, @ qualifications. update ma
by completing und returning an update form ov your inthatire,

‘ScTios.t = BHOGRIPHIC tad POSITION DATA ani
Car ee a TC rT Teste or erate
027630 =| Hidalgo, Balmes N. Jr. : [95/27/19
cre suainaai 7 t efirers
ans aves TP

Tas? mice SCHOOL ATTENDED rs
__Ls Salle Aondemy _N¥C NY. ORE ok

Mo. sem sare
cen nvao| med. (Specity)

owt ana LucaTion OF COLLEGE 8 UNIVERSITY

HY Ontvercity
URIV of HD
Mont Jv College eth Sal ar

iaoicare tae Titer oF Toe

Spire teas.

THESIS sm DRLEFLY DESCRIOE ITS CONTENT.

TRADE, COWGACHM and SFECIMITEO SCHOOLS

maut_ao aoomess OF sCWOOL

Suburban ieepital

cecuPat1 Om

aczia hsst

Fo cave Tense

secTion WV.
Peseriserh

pavebter |
Deughter | 1960 NYC NY

ery



“SECRET
oe In

ing anv sTenccawnie BILLS

Elonece | Dsneessaeriee he

Queits, oats. ciciascy PUBL CT
| Extremely orpable in Piret 444 (advanced) and tecching of Pirefighting procedures.
Elementary kndledge of Real Estate Procslures»

‘Section va

Twig vow BLE TIVE BeavIee CLatsiF eat IOw Cwaner OF F ate cuassericaraee

— ee 5,
MILITARY RESERVE, RATIONAL GUAPO STATUS

Cheeses ovate EJ “Atronat cusne
Elaeey oman tie warvonas cosmo

encen aesteve oF cusso onsents Cl] sewer wennoe coms
TATION TO WHICH YOU PELONG a

HOKE.

Tuawtnt Fan, Coane O© BATA] BATE GF APPOINTMENT In CURwinT Bane [a tvomaTeN One

w/a | R/A i 7

cnfee connint ataeave cavceory C] wan seine, [] wmrveims
wom TATION yp AoCaT - BESCAVE Cait Fo Sai /AsTIENTe

WILITARY SCHOOLS COMPLETED (Fatended tcerve. Penerve Ooty. av 0 Crvstion)
sewooe . Stuty_on eect fatice

Won=Cin leadership eakook

AWE AnD cuaPrce

fimertean fed Gress
ept_and ones

Vion Rescun & Yat! ALT hace
i. Mantgomery. board of. 0 (ASSOSTATE “‘mecker)(Parrenenc>.. ends

RBS z



Fstcricw¥

Moieiged
"11952658

‘on Countay Naceccoct, | ou nestetwce er atupy

11965
1196162=3_

Quite proficient in vhotofrachy: = Safety and Fire engineering = First Aid including the.
Instruction of First Aidé Hoopital Coppeman duties, SOME Redl Estate knowledges

‘Section Vint Fay SEE

‘URREAT ORAFT STATUS,

TV waa vouR BeUETT ive aeaVIET CURET

Ons a]

RITae Eeavcts) |e wee CuassiF CATION

TTOeAE SELECTIVE SERVICE BONN NUwBER AND AOOKESE

MILITARY RESERVE, NATIONAL GUARD STATUS

eMECE MESEAvE OF GUARD OFceei. ane eee ae
tation To wnicw vou seconORE, 5 ee ee Ci coasr cue

1D *artona. cvaes
ate marionas cuare

WA

TemaeNT BI SHAE OH “I CCG TeV aIATAENT Te GURRERT tana” [ST EapinATON Sane COnmENT TEA TION

NAME AND cHarree

Rockville Fire Dept |
& othera _ oe _-—-- others.

1_Firet- Ald. Instruotor -as-vol- aa-Md-Corpoman.

Associate member Mont Realtors
-Int Assoc Rosoue. & First-Ald————____. __ ..

‘steriow a

Re Section IVs Both daughters nov married,
Re Section ITI: This is second marraige.

Re Real Estate training: This still in‘dctive stage. Plans are to
supplesent my work and eventually change to it on full time basis.

~~ 7 SeCRET 7



“QUALEF LCATIONS UPOATE

HEAD INSTA CHTONS CARETTELY BEFORE COMPLET YFE OR PRINT, AVOID USING LIGHT COLORED INKS _

Now.that your qualitcatsrns dre @ matter of computer record. they must be periodically updated. This fs dohe auto-
matically for much mn, Roweter. some Must de obtained directly from you. This form ts for that purpose.

Section 1 must be contréted-in all cases. You'need provite other mformat:on only It there have been changes since
you submitted your For ‘Qualifications Supplement fo the Personal History Statement.” or a pret:ous update form.

Uf you are. tn doubt whether tiformation has been previously submitted, enter it in the anpropriate section. Thé signed
aud dated form should be returned through administrative channels Co the File Room, Office of Personnel, Room SE-13

Headquarters, whether injormation ts added oF not,
Additionally, @ quatifications update may take place at any. time'there ts information to be ddded or changed stmpty

by completing and returning an update Jorm'on your {nitiative.

a7 jOGRAPHIC AAD. 0 PosiTiGn CATA
“Faven Biddle aa [re oF aint

Hidalgo, Ba Imes N. 05/27/19

ERUCAT ION

HIGH SCHOOL
Geena (City State Country) TeEane ATFERGTO (PFO) ZF arog

_NYCity WY | 493840

COLLEGE oR univ

wus artenoeo| ote ven hee; seaare.

MAME AND LOCATION OF COLLECE OR UNIVERSITY
fou: -to-> eecer CEELW EO) HRS.
Le ab

New York Universtity : i 19% i)

os
Vu GRADUATE OEGREC was BEER NOTIO ABOWE @HICH RCGUIMED SuEMISSICN OF A WHITTEN TmESIG, IMDICATE Tmt TITLE OF Tre
THESIS AND BRIEFLY OESCBLOC (TS CONTERT, t

THape,
Rave ano A00u3s ef S0nd00

University of Mi.

Montgomery Junior College | Real Estate procedures
Rockville. Md Campus __ a fee esensncse eget
Suburban Hospital Emergency Nedical Aid/
Bethesda, Ma

fsteriow 111

T_baratat S¥aTuy Theale

Fat oF Srouse Wits

BIDILGO

Te. Fonmen co PagensmiP tad CounTavines? Dave U.S. eitizewsni® acOUINED

~ DEPEADEAT GriLOREN Ano DEPOLOENTS OTHER Thea Spouse
‘atcavicaswir] OaTe AO PLACE OF Git= ertitiese?]

re

3s Arlington Va

OD onere
738 gun

SECRET

GP Ree,



Na eters

03/27/39 S:

Q2723c | wTEALGO BON UR . a
: RES TEER

co 7 SON TRE
a4

CPS CFFICER

ae

atSTERN FE

WESTERN “EmMISPRKERE- i rDvete
WESTERN NEMISPHERE ToOv-ce
ELRGPEAN AMER yDy-eC
WESTERN HEM ISPMERE cot b ..BeSeee-
Whgrcln Kamin HeRe : TRy-ce

OVERSEAS DATA
COPED. 28 ara se
DATE: «= YTIALS

WERE ~ rovsee

THO CCLLEGE CEGREE ON RECORD

Fert [EWES Comrmaacint bem

AbHe :
Impeal En pteet Ptvewstte
|
oe 3 SECRET
ipo i



siChON

EDUCATION (Cour)

TE mice SERB AT ENCED
Ln Salle Acater

HIGH SCHOOL

THT Fae Gome

NO sew Ore
HES sect,

wae
aecerved)

pay oa tr Yen ee ay

| oneueese Daa

TRADE COMMERCIAL ATID SPECIALIZED S0NCOLS
omens

Tatet AND ADDSESS OF $C

ale
|

Tin and ABOAESS OF Bere {yDv O0-S08Cw EATON Te 7]
7 7 ~ ~ + —
i i i
COMER NON AGENCY LOUCATON OF TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE
Att 08 SEC RTE Feo [0 TNO oF woNns

“ACENCY SPONSORED EDUCATION

Soecky whieh Dany cl the od.

Ravel AND ADDRESS OF SOOO

Full Ops course

Bianagenee Crag |

SECRET u
-2-



©

secret eee

Baran Mend
‘Ouayt stares

i ean ar

TEED SHE REASON

R/A

TAR OSES wo ow ee

7S toe mee ee
Fedsralised Neticnal Guard; ° ; 20249765

T DAMS OF SEOKE gemaeed cee OO

see
Cat 1940-

Sema SUVICE OF PAE NUS

Can nay ge BE RHINE DICH Tawi scence ST ative
Fouts, GIO tO macine oom SEER oee es a Dl omee rise
Dat semtyrrceace [Wh ee tees ere nebo Daan
ORG RCP SN ava DUES cag me ao bade cbse ban embe ae awe wane oe mo

Tefentry

ang Cryporraphic

‘oneca WESCE OF SoH OBGAND Daw Cl wsens coms DD natcne cveeo
Tare "0 weesm HOU ALONG coast custo ;
saw aeroxt we Sangnas Guan
emits : a o oO
1 Comiat nate, SuSE CH TE 7 ait OF GME A GR 1 BvRATON DAH OF Comatha SER ONG AT ON

7 tne Guittw Ratt Ce

sent) sano ne Clee a Thess” [yee

ds

3 ART DURE SN Or MOET ADIN E OWES = wae

DR RY SND TO

REGU AATIONA, SUMED TUN AG VN DENTO SE ONT AND V5 OONESE

MAITARY SCHOOS ZOMMETED Aire Sue

TEAS so oS

aioe LT
:

> SECRET
: wo +3- :


“SECRET

[Whom Aad I

SECTION w {CASSTERNC ANA ENOWIFOGE_AND FORLIGN TRAVEL

sos ae eS eyaea
ENOWUEDSE.

amt OF 8tGON
‘08 COUNTY

IHN

can arace
oF snoy

Sl Srlvador

Sedtlend
cone Tied aad SHNOGTAMG tall
Then wins ]F BOMnan® ha, [I Oia DORAN HFN Tit rea : E
40 : Dore Cp vcrowanns feskuueaaad Stee “. E

[Secon vi,

“FWNOICATE OMEN BUSINESS MACHINES WITH WnsGr YOU Mave Pad OPEEATAG BPENENCE OW WAINIC) vonpeeie, mnergraon food Both Ox

Various a

z E SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS —_

1 UST ALL MOBRIES ANO S8ORIS ih wnnigh ¥O7a AME ACTIVE CE nave ASME Bate
Pirst Afd Instrietor. 7 active currently.

Fire Plehting end séfsty cractices, Uhiversity of Mrrylend. fetive cutrently,
7

Tuc ATE YOUR POGRIGIENCY IN EAS

LE 6d dent done,

a dene tit

aE ater SOECIAL SARS SOU POSSES® RELATING 10 OPED EQUPMERT AND
4 TUBRET LATHE EZP AND OTHER SCAEMIFIC & PROFESWONAL DEVICES

7 Att VOU Ow GR NAVE vOU EVER BEEN 4 LEED OF EE

ELECTRCIAN #ADIO OPERATDA TAGE? Ua 2, CPA WED Cag ECON AN BHO

b +

FS YOU HAVE ANSWERD "VES" TO lbw} ABOVE INDICATE AND OF WEENIE OF CERRO GANG
MURSEIPASTY LIC Pande Lrene pte note nese

First Aid Instructor = N-tJonal Red Cross = 1963

HST AC ENSE, constr ee)

PEST UCENSE:CERIBICATE spor of se

www aeeaues INGIEATE Inf DRE PUBICATION DATE AND NPE OF WRITING

0 INOCATE ANY DEVICES Wnich YOu NAVE Nv E''ED ANO SvA'E WHENEE O8 NO! MEY AGF PATENTED.

[ POLIG SPEALING AND PLALIC RELATIQNG DPERENCE

SECRET

aaetae ~ -3-



SCHON.

aiTAL STATUS

i eae

were

Maye or OU,

o Varontca

Toa oe

May 23 191%

2 Phey USA

S"SeCoRATON

Adninistr tive Asst

cla

FORE RTRTAT CORT
None

TORT y Clee aouATD

N/A

DEPENDENT OHNDETN AND OFPINDENTS OTHER THAN SPOUSE,

Dale AND PLAck OF Bite

a Pema ADORE

wai ree

Frences Re Hide] go_ j dauchter | Feb 23 1950 NYC ws Al-y-n@rin, Va
Ealmes N, Hidalgo Sre father Dee 16 1500 Piertg ID NYC_NY.

. al tes fo
Roan Hidalgo mother Jon 12 1892 Spain| US nyc NY

SECTON

{
PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AND OMER ORGANATIONS

t Dae OF NEwaLESAD

NAME AND CUptER

MODELS Mabe, Sreet Coy Shay Coma’

Fm 10

-

con Red Cross fontgemeny Ctr, Mle _ 1964
Civil Defense tenm
Freneonie Volimteer Fire Frenecnis, Va 1958
Dopertert
Reekville Voluntesr Fire Rockyille, My 1964 |

Depertnent

Tntarhetionel Rescis ent
First Aid Asscet+tion

oat

9 Fed 1963

corer

EOF ROME



SECRET
(When Fite.)

i
[LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY AND AWARDS DATA Ee - |
i

4

” : f
Teer punrt 7 ORFS, 2
aoe sia a eee -

FO. euawae atLotuanT eae

BF tariavag pAVROUL NO.

aa accaraay or aewonmant

TEES 1273. use rneviove rormona

\
(eres aes SECRET
we : ry SECRET
7 ce ee Lfhen Filed Ia) a
PERNT BRT ROTTS zs
vem Tuansuace PROFICIENCY AND AWARDS DATA|
| [av wame (7-347 [a Couronene | 2
: E ood EET a \ Saaantare aa
=] PE Reco aa ae
H se Ee | ie : ‘
i 14, 1 CERTIFY THIS. EMPLOYEE FOR AWARD TYPE OF AWARD.
| Pramarone one reer eaves _
i [16 AMOUNT CF AWARD Sea gue ant,
' | 18 FEDERAL TAX DEDUCTION $ :
i ; er Banat TTT AS: aa
1 STATE/OC TAX DEDUCTION $° |
| —— — ere
1 | 21. NET AMOUNT OF AWARD. $
| [BS vemwane ciacx to Fa" Tle tment or aawianwint
'
P= ia
| SECRET easy MRD COPY
i


awe (oat

When Palled Fe

pant i-coicaae

Hidalgo, Palres Nieves Jz

SECTION A,

PART LILANGUAGE ELONERTS —

Reading (49)

onty eaarty.

De any OnreicuL Ty.

Yea ana

ratoutntir.

RTS GF OSH CHADIS OF DINPICILIV, OF

tat piereowany

Telerene materials,

TEATS OF AVERAGE OIFFECLLIY (ne

SUCH AS STATED SteNS, MEMSPAPCR MCADLINES, C1¢,, USING INE DICTONAaY FAC QUENTLY.

1 CAV ReaU SiMLE HERTS,

FmAVE NO BEATING ABILITY Hm THE LANGUAGE.

Writing (41)

rH COUPLETE SUCCESS ab IMOUT USING THE DICTIONARY.

fo cay menre peassua JaTteas ano soutien warts
ROUTE FACTUAL MAREATIVE AND LIFOSITORY MATERIAL 1TH HEASCWAMLE Chal
NATIVE SIYLE, USING

meURT ICAL C@RORS

HE DICTHONLGY- OLY RARELY,

1 CAN RITE PERSONAL LETTERS AND SIMILAR SIMPLE UATCRIAL #1 TH COMPLETE SUCCESS, USING THE DICTIONARY ONLY

ta DEASOMABLE CLARITY, ca GRMMATICAL

GME DtCTONAMy J¢EASTONALLY,

ATHVE AND THPOST FOUY Mar

seLY. UL CAM ARTE SACTUML Nat

EHAORS. DUT IN A SIVLE anicH MAY MOT BE WATIYE, US:

1 caw

TTE PeRCoRAL LETTESS ano SiuniaR couple MATERIAL. WITW prASONAOLE SUCCESS Im CCRYEYING HY MEANING,
e4eARD STYLE, USING THE DICTIONARY

1D tN eBYFoUSLY PoRCIcS,

QUT WIT GCCASIGnAL MINOR GRAMMATICAL CR
Decastonatey.

a caNNoT

SECTION C,

tm CONMEW ING MY MEANING,
WPRCQUEN TL.

Te Peetona. CORNERS AND SIMILAR SHUPLE WATEREAL, wrTH OF
Many CYAWEATICAL ERRORS AND Im A YEM

FORCIGy, Aenean ZIVLC, USING Tre OICTION

€1N THE Lawcuact.

Promncietion (42)

GUILE NATIVES CAM DETECT AN ACCEWT 1% MY PRONUNCIATION THEY WAVE NO SIFSICULTY UNDERSTANDING WE.

ELY CAUSES DIFFICULTY FOM NATIVES TO UNDERSTAND

MY PRomescterton $5 COvOUSLY FuREION,

Wr PRONUNCIATION IS OCCASIONALLY DIFFICULT FOR NATIVES To UNOLESTAND,

14 PRONLNCH ATION.

ft mave 80 saree

Tine se Gye

tree's?

CONTIME (1 REVERSE SIDE


Ys arfan fcventey ah aces
eettentrerserie yt)

r seancy, gic peacticat and sociac srruatsonsi™.t can convense im wost erecoa |,
CAND F CaPLOr some POrULAM. savings. LITERARY QUOTATIONS. AND COwuOn PRONERAS.

| UNDERSTAND NON: TECHNICAL CONVERSATION ON ALL BURJECTS. BOTH TACE*TO°FACE AND ON THE TELEPHONE! 1 unDEAsTaNg:
MAAR CWERYINING I WEAR OM THE @ay10 ANO AT THE MOVIES. PLAYS, AND LECTURES,

1 UNDERSTAND NON: TECHNICAL CONVERSATION OM MCAALY ALL SUBJECTS, BOTH FACE: TO-FACE ANG OM THE TELEPHONE: 1
UNDEMSTAND MOST QF OAT 1 HEAR ON THC MAGEO AND AT THE MOVIES, PLAYS, AND LECTURES, INCLUDING MOST JOKES AND

3, LSNDERSTIND EARLY ALL CONVERSATION On TORIES OF DAILY LIFE ANO TRAVEL, BOTH FACE: TO-FACE AMO ON THE TELED
PHONE: | UNDERSTAND MUCH ZF WHAT I EAM ON THE RADIO, AND-AT INE MOVIES, PLAYS, AND LECTURES.

4. E UNDERSTAND THE SIMPLEST CONVERSATION, 9O1N FACES TO“FACE AND ON IHL TELEPHONES 1 UNDERSTAND SOME OF sWaT
1 MEAR OW THE RADIO AMD AT ThE MOVES, PLAYS, AND LECTURES.

tA MOT ABLE TO UNOERSTANO THE sPOREN LaMGuACt.

BEFORE CONTINUING — CHECK PART (1 TO ENSURE THAT YOU WAVE CIRCLED OKE MUMBER PER SECTION.

PART (LI-EXPERIERCE AS TRANSLATOR OR IMTERPRETER (85)

1. 7b ave WAD EXPEMIENCE AS A TRESLATOR.

GB vss ao camtnrence as an untearacres,

4. MONE OF THE ApoE staTEMENTs aPPiy,

LEGGE ANC acLIEr.

NCEATIFY THAT THE INFORMATION GIVEN ABOVE IS TRUE AND ACCUBATE TO THE BEST OF MY aM
THES CERTIFICATION CONSTITUTES MY APPLICATION FOR 4 WAINTEWANCE AARO PROVEOCO { Au ELIGIOLE UNDE® THE Thame OF
REGULATION NO. 23-113. OAR, 1644), 1 UNDERSTAND THAT { MUST PASS th OBJECTIVE LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY TEST orraRe t

AECOME ELIGIBLE FOR AN AWARD, IND’ THAT LODESPECTIVE OF THE OATE OF TESTING, ANMUAL MAINTENANCE APARDS WILL OE
CUMULATIVE AY OF THE ANNIVERSARY DATE OF COMPLETING THIS FoRW,

TiemaTure i
er (IY Litbiney 4

DATE stautD,



Sosy. PART I CENERAL,

Tote abate oF simtm (75-300

Hidalgo, Balzes Nieves JR Mey a7_| 1ag

a foseves bate — 30-30)
}: AVE NO PROFICIENCY

Taxcunce Taran

PART VI-LANGUAGE OL OnEATS.

SECTION A

Trees READ TENTS OF AMY DIFFICULTY, CF A GEWCRAL NATURE O@ IM FIELUS 1 AM FAMILIAR BITW, USING IME DICTIONARY

2 CAN QUAD TEATS OF MOST GRADES OF DIFFICULTY, OF A GEVEGAL NATURE CR IN FICLOS 1 AM FAMILIAR WITH, USING Dut

Dicticmaey 2¢castovALey.

¥ ca ALAD TEATS OF AVERAGE DIFFECULTY (newepapere, reference aatecsale, fe. ), USING THE DICTIONARY

racguentir.

| Gin meAD SIMPLE TEXTS, SUCK AS_STREET SLOWS. MENSPAPER MEADLINCS, ETC:. USING THE DICTIONARY FREQUCWILY.

TM COMPLETE SUCCESS WITHOUT USING THE DICTIONARY. 1 CAN

1 CaN RITE PERSONAL LEVERS AND SiMitaa WATERIAL
ite VERY FOR GRAMMATICAL ERRORS, IN

SEITE FACTUAL NARRATIVE AND EXPOSITORY WATERIAL ITH REASONABLE CLAMITY,
NATIVE STYLE, USING THE OLETIONARY ONLY RARELY,

bay RUTE PERSONAL LETTERS AND. SIVI AT SIMPLE MATERIAL @1TH COMPLETE SUCCESS. USING ThE DICTIONAY ONLY
BARELY. 1 Can @RITE FACTUAL NARRATIVE AYO CXPOSITORY WATERIAL BIT REASONAGLE CUARI Ty. I to C8 QWASWATICAL
ERRORS. BUT IN A STYLE MMICH MAY NOT BE ATIVE, USING THE DICTIONARY OCCASIONALLY.

1 Caw WROTE PERSONAL LETTERS AND SIMILAR SIMPLE MATERIAL, PITH REASCAABIE SUCCESS IN CONVEYING MY UCANING,
GUT Btfn OCCASIONAL MINGH GRAMMAT.CAL ERACHS AND IM OBVIOUSLY FOREIGN, ANKWARD STYLE, USING THL DICTIONARY.

SeCAsIONALLY,

1 CAN @RITE PERSONAL LETTERS QD SIWILAR SIMPLE WATCRIAL, WITH REASONABLE SUCCESS tH CONVEYING MY MEAMING,
BET ATH ANY GRAWUATICAL CRRORS AND IN A VERY FORLIGN, AD STYLE: USING THE DICTIONARY FECQUERTLY.

ED + conor werre vv me cancuaee,

sectice ¢.

wy PaouNCHATION 15 NATIVE,

WHILE MATOVES CAN DETECT AN ACCENT IN WY PRONUNCIATION THEY WAVE NO DIFFICULTY UNDERSTANDING ME.

7 PROMLNCLATION If OBVIOUSLY FOREIGN, MT ONLY RARELY CAUSES DIFFICULTY FOR NATIVES To UNDERSTAND.

UY PRONUNCIATION 15 OCCASIONALLY DIFFICULT FSB NATIVES TO LAOERSTAND.

H MAVE. ND SEILL In PRONUNCIATION.
CONTINUE ON REVERSE SIDE
Tei; wee SECRET



2 OSPEAR FL OENTUY AND “ACCURATE IN ALL Pew quaracency
Ie ate seuss Fate

Hons. aNd cownay PRoweens.

ay conduct ROUTINE BUSINESS IN PARTECUL

F GLY ALONG QUITE aELC EN SITUATIENS OF OANLY CEE AND Teavee,

Fe LANACE TD CET ALONG FN THE WOST COMMER SHTUATIONS OF GaVLe LIFE AND TRAVEL.

(MRE NO ABILETY TO USE THE LANGUAGE Im any OF THE

SECTION E, Understanding (44)

FNOE BST AND NON TEOHNICAL CCRYERSATION CN ALL SURSECTS, BETS FACE TO-FACE ANG ON THE TELEPMONES 1 ANaEaSTAND,
RUAMLY EetaVTHING CREAR CX FuE B4O1G ANO AT Ta MaNtES, PoAvS, AND LECTURES.

BOTH FACE: TO-TACE AND OW THE TELEPRON

F exbr ao TAN wows TCCMWICAL CONVERSATION @% SEAMLY ALL SUBLETS
Pears. AMD LECIURES, INCLUDING MOST JS

HQBresTaND MOST OF wat UmLAS Oy THE WADI AND AT Tek WIVES.

SANDERS TAND NEABLY ALL CONVERSATION OM TOPICS OF CAILY LIFE ANS TRAVEL, BOTH FACE: TO-FACE AND OW TIE
PMENLL P-UNDERSTAND MECH OF WAT 1 REAM On TRE RADIO, AND AT Toe WOVIES. PLAYS, AND LECTURES.

: CNOEHSTAND THE SIMALEST CONVEMSETION, 90 FACE®TO°FACE ANE CN THE TELEPHONE! 1 UNDERSTAND, SOME OF mar
: A WIAR ON TRE FADIC AND AT Tet WOVIES, PLAYS. AMO LECTURES.

LTO UNaERSTAND THe 54
BEFORE CONTINUING ~ CHECK PART 11 TO ENSURE TBAT YOU RIVE CIRCLED ONE NUMBER PER SECTION.
PART I I-ERPERIENCE AS TRANSLATOR OR LnTERPRETER (85)

1 NAVE MAD EXPERIENCE AS 4 raamsuaral

1 SAVE MAD EXPERIENCE AS aN INTERPRETE:

. 4 gam OF THE AnovE srarcucare aprey.

i Codeine or tne aaove vrateaavts arruy,

PART IV-CERTIFICAT ICR

1 SOMEty Tear twE aMsORMATION GIVES aBove 15 Tm SELAATE TO THE OST UF MY KNOBLEDGE AND aLLItE.
Tus COATISCCATIOW CONSTITUTES wv APPLICATION FOR A Ht deaea saovtoed 1 aw Cictat UAOCa Tat. Hows. oF
seucuatiay wo. tSettoe Pam 55 Ay 2sECT IVE Camcuact Paorierency TES? Bercee |
chat ee tatae san as CSF TESTING, ANNUAL WAINTEAANCE AWARDS BILE OF
COUEATNL AS oe i

Tae pein

Yes 105



Hl
,
i
i

i
i
i
t
|

oe
CONFIDENTIAL >}.

SECURITY APPROVAL

DATE 3. 17 April 1964

YOUR
REFERENCE: 18658 DDP/SAS ‘i

CASE NO. : 65077

TO : Director of Personnel

“atm ot

SUBJECT ; HIDALGO, Ualnes Iieves, Jr.

1. This is to inform you that Subject has been approved for the
appointment specified in your request under the. provisions of
Headquarters Regulations 10-3 and 20-5 including access to
classified information through TOP SECRET as required in the
performance of duties. ‘

2. Unless arrangenents are made within 60 days for entrance on duty
within 120 days, this approval becomes invalid.

3. As part of the entrance on duty proceesing:

([_] A personal interview in the Office of Security must be arranged.

A personal interview is not necessary.

([] Please advise Chief; Clearance Branch, extension 5620
when Subject. enters on duty.

4. This is a conversion case.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Ll): 0 Bim
: We Ae . a
Chief, Personnel Secufity Division

CONFIDENTIAL



- CONFIDENTIAL ene

(Ken Fetled Ta)

STAFF AGENT CLEARANCE

DATE 2°22 April 1963
out Rif(etxce: Menoraitun of 19 April 1963

CASE HO, : §S50TT

chief; Contract Personnel Diviaton

Aedosye Be:

1. This fs to advise that a security clearance is
nent of the Subject as a Staff-Agent, QS-11, dy DDP/SAS in the capaci=y of

Starf Agents Branch

ations Officer under Project JMWAVE,

2. If your office should desire at u later date to change the status or
use of the Subject, a request to cover nny proposed change should be subsitted

to this office.

less arrangements are rade within 60 days for entrance on 4
this Arproval becones tnvalld.

k. As a cart of entrance ou duty processing:

ce of Sec’ ist be arranged by

rergonal interview tn the 0:

al interview is not necessary.



DATE =: 10 March 1958

CONFIDENTIAL * a
wnt rea wo

SECURITY APPROVAL

your
REFERENCE:

CASE NO: 1 65077 :

to

«Director of Porsornet

ROM’ 1 Director of Security

SUBJECT 1IDALGC, Balnea’ Nieves

lL

This $s to inform ycu of security approval of the subject poriton
ag follows:

[CX] Sudjoct hao beer approved for tho appointment opest tied tn
your request under tho provisions of Regulations 10-210 und
20-780. Including acceso to classified information through
Top Secrot us roquirod in tho performunco of hiv dutias.

[CU] Subsnet has been approved for appointment under Ue muthority
of Paragruph 4(d) of Rogaletion 10-210, and undor Noulation
20-70 Including access to elanaifled information through
Top Socret aa required in tho performance of hin dutles,

cements aro mide within 60 days for entranco on duty within
this approval becomes invalid.

Ard day

ef tho entrance on duty procosain,

(xc) .4 poroonal interview in the Office of Security mut le tirranged,
(7) A personal interview is not necsssary.

CH) thts clearance 1s issued in advance of recoipt of a SP-377,
Subject will be assigned to the WH Division,

Wk
_ WM, Knott
Chie?, Personnel Security ivtuton

SP UT7S meee cee CONFIDENTIAL o

Since te Ssecure


ereree

Olu So

RIOGPG IiPoDU TTY i Srienonant

Somes ~Ralmos Ke WIDALGO, Ire : i
i Grade: ~~ . car |
: Servis Deaignationr——-02 : : vl
i Date’ snd !1ace of 27 vay 19 ae
4 Birth Navara, Cuba !
j Rarital Statust - “Rerried !
i Education and career 1945-46 New York University - Xo depres (2 yrs)
Oxtsiue the Agenay? Sev Lovie 49 FEL, caster part of United Statos
: Untercover Agent
Languages: _.. Spanish © Fluent
. Portuguese & Zrench = Fair :
valitery Duty: 27 Far 39-27 Sep 1943 New York Natdonal Guard i
(Pedernliszed Oct £0) 06S. Any :
CIA Experience: 1S Feb 52°fx Ay rect. 9 C20, UES |
HYFONESIS, :
‘ 1 Fed 56 Promotion, Contract Raployes, OS-ll, 0DP/AH, = ¢
ieccte seamests, |
“ Gga Tretning? Covert training



: \ :

‘ _ CONFIDENTIAL :
when Piste ty :

Preyer OUD ow" TTg_ 0

[PeOvipie cugsent weSiGhACe amp 'nEPENol ay IMs CAMA TION
invent Outs OVE
(heey PB

Aionlio VA herurnes

___. MCSIOE NEL,
ry wee

Tact tw CONT IMUNTAL Oey DI TNATHD ay PIRMANUAT BIRTOEREE

Ore) :

WanTAL STATUS : :

fine [ogdemmeren (CJ siraratee (orpanoncre Co] noone Nery

We wranido, tnbteaTe PLacy ov wraaract > ee art er wawerae
: : Ga bao 185. sa Ie

Gerrerrerrerrsr sy

MEER ERY Ont

FF vevoRetD, PLAY OF DAVORCL OG!

TOATe srouse bieo

Srooete, IwniGale PuAcl sPousE OVD

yiwariow, two OATEUST

¥ PMC viOUSLY MAHRIED, IMDICATI wast) UF SPOUSE ACEJONIS) TOR

EVALRS OF FAMILY

weet or hopse woonrss (Vor. Street, Coty, Fon, Stave) Tecrnont wewOEe
Zevire Arpaleo :
wants OF Cuiioane ‘annaess a
Ler ltaaia | -
Fiiancés REGccCA
fata yor sale gwandion) doen sh a
W Aiati ge |
i | Fecrenent

rumpasese

= PERSON TO BF _NOTIFIEO IN CASE OF EMERGENCY
waee (i Me, Weve) (Laat Fir eteWiddle)

Hronkge, bevi sd

Citys dene, State)”

nevarionsei
1 rhe i

WOME TEUEPnOML wuMOCe

wont abbatss (Ren, oF

‘us imeSs Thetemowt @ EXTENSION

VF aPPuTeAOLe!

Fiver, City, fone, State) tno wim OF ture Oven,

Bosiness ADDRESS (MO:

TE THE (MENWIDUAL HAWED AOOWE WITTING OF TOUR AGENCY APFILIATION?

Tatars WeovgiauRh wTWORTZID To uae BLETHIONE OW VOOR BUNALPD

DOLE THIS TMDIVIDUAL ENOW THAT WE WAS BitW DLSTGNATED AS VOUR tui RGEWCY AODRESS

Ye PERSONS NAMED IN ITEM B ABOVE MAY ALSO BL NOTIFIED IN CASE OF LMLECENCY. IF SUCH NOTIFICATION 15 NOT OESIWAGLE
CAUSE OF MEALTH ON OTHER REASONS. PLEASE $0 STATE th ITEM 7 ON THE REVERSE S10 OF Tuts FORw

VOUUNTARY ENTRIES,

TTutiONs witw enim vou HAVE ACCOUNTS

THONEATE sy BANKING INS,

EREEN WIE Savings Bauk

CONTINUED ON REVERSE S1OE

CURRENT RESIDENCE AND DEPENDENCY REPORT
CONFIDENTIAL



CONFIDENTIAL
fanee Falte

ttn

CEO ENUEDT

rarity

Rataes MW Wioad ae Sn YR hose Geri lds

Ter TCR NST SRT COL eee COs CR LO

meer oy Ca

TF AEa*) one PONTESTES Ted PERLE OF ATTORNEY?

nave Vou EMtCUTED,

Smal BATA amg/O® CONFAWUATION OF PRECEDING ITEMS

ere PANSens 76

jor

préa 3 OF
Avaslaste.

De Wer wersy

Loren gent, 0Ak ess

wrGe fo

CONFIDENTIAL



stance roma 144

dba aa™ STATEMENT OF PRIOR FEDERAL AND MILITARY SERVICE

‘and retention eredite |
juld complete Parte IT

Il be weed ini determining creditabl> service for Jeare purpoi
Jd complete Part I and the Peranniiel Oftce al

IMPORTANT: The information on this form
fot reduction in farce: The tripliyee

PART W—THiS CCLOMN tS
FOR PERSONNEL OFFICE OSE

~PoRETENTICN GRO

PART EMPLOYEES STATEMENT

‘2 DATE OF BIRT

TMAME Chae, Arit, eniadte inital) ~

Ava ce "FA, “ Batnés Mavss | 27 Py He

2 UST De FOLLOWING IMFORMATION CONCERNING ALL FEDERAL AKO. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA SERVICE YOU HAYE HAD
PRONTO! YOUR rRIENT APPOINT HUNTS (De nor tnclude mulitary service

io ss cord
sats ano Locanon oF ncEREY : arnaeeeent
wean [ wonte [ ony | voia [oowtn [ oxr Tascen

ffaesal or] or dete

us Aary bert FP
QVAATRAMATA

{4ST PERIOUS OF SERVICE IM ANY BRANCH OF THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES, IF YOU HAD HO MILITARY
Sonics, WHITE “MONE:

Troe
usc : re
year | ieowrm] ay | wean | wont] DAY

oscuanee
(Hoa. of debe?)

255 al 27] 92 [reer lee | Howesaven
1S ARMY tb if :

DURING PEPLOUS OF LWPLOYMENT SHOW" IM ITEM 3, OID YOU HAVE A TOTAL OF HORE THAN 6 MONTIE ABSENCE
[WITHOUT PAY, INCLUDING PERIOUS OF MCRCHANT MARINE SERVICE, DURING ANY ONE CALENOAR YEART [_} YES f
YF ANGAER 5 “YES,” LIST FOLLOWING INFORMATION.
a0 ae oe a oe Jor cc

Tye 1 ww
LWOP, Purl, Susp, AWOL, Mor Mor) Soa [imenar| aa =} Peg pera Td en

iz ae | . a Ecsaaalt |
bung THe FEDERAL SERVICE LSTED Ww FFEM 2. GID VOU ACOUIRE APES MAGIENE COMPETITIVE CIVIL SLIVICE STATUS?

Ow (yr

Cl anveee:

TH MONCREDITABLE SERVICE
Miner purpeees ond:

TE NONCREOUARE SWICE,

WE REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS

"You in what agency were you senployed at the time status wes acquired?)

7 AE VOU:
Ane mre or Apstmus verouat CJ ves [io
8 Toe MoTHen oF A ptecASTO oR orumLeD verens [J ves CG

€. re ensewssnico meow oraverenent [] ws [aso
© YO &E CAELITED BEFORE A NOTARY PUBLIC GH OTHER PERSGNS AUTHORIZED TO ADMINGTER OATHS.
Tewear (or affirm) that the above statements are true to the best of my knowledge and belief

a hm EG

Subscribed and sworn to before we on this L3tRacy of Mar ___19sBar__Washington, D.C.
‘worry rm

2 EyPinaTiow DATE OF RETEN:
THON RIGHTS, sata

SEAL

(OVER) ee


PART ML—DETERMINING CREDITABLE SERVICE”
‘ied “SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE FOR
LEAVE PURPOSES

TOTAL SERVICE (Treen 22)
ONCREOITABLE SERVICE (Ttean 15)...

CREDITABLE SERVICE (Leere purpovee)

ENTRANCE ON DUTY DATE (Present agency?

iss CREOITADLE SERVICE (Leare purpose)

SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE (Leave purpaaee) .-

‘PART 1V.—DETERMINING CREDITABLE SERVICE
AND SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE FOR
: REDUCTION IN FORCE PURPOSES ee
(To be completed only in these cases when the .inount of creditable service for reduction
ae in fofce purposes differs (rom the amount creditable for leave purposes)

TOTAL SURVICE (Item 129

ONCREDITABLE SERVICE (Ivem 10),

CREDITABLE SERVICE (REF parrposee)..

[ENTRANCE ON DUTY DATE (Present agers).

[LESS CREDITABLE SERVICE (RIM purposes).

SERVICE COMPUTATION DATE (RIF purpotme) onrets
Fea reer ee E aie an tne keinliges's “Service Rocoed Card,"'$F-7)





































ee | ry

PERSONAL -HISTORY STATEMENT

Instructions: 1. Anawer all questions completely. If quéstion is not: applicable write “NA.” Write
“unknown” only if you do not know the answer and cantiot' obtain the answer from
F personal records, Use the blank pages at the end of this form fur extra details on
any question or questions for which you do not have sufficient reom,
SS 2. Type, print, or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consid-
: : eration,

HAVE YOU READ AND DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE INSTRUCTIONS?

See. 1, PERSONAL BACKGROUND

oe
NAME Me. Ealmes _ .Bidelgo, Ine
: wa ay tant
“PRESENT apvress Fouse number 694 hth Ste east,
‘eno Minar (G0)

NA,

St ood

teresa BLNICKNAME "Barney" S5al" WHAT OTHER NAMES HAVE YOU USED? _.~e2_remarks_

.. UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES WAVE YOU EVER USED THESE

Seo py pinta... . BY MARRIAGE
TURALIZATION CERTIFICATE RAL ISSUED... SA... BY NA

See remarks _

HAVE YOU MAD A PREVIOUS NATIONALITY?

artes c)

HELD BETWEEN WHAT. DATES? —NA_. TO.....NA.. ANY OTHER NATIONALIT

GWE PARTICULARS . NA. fessoosuasuasoaa ——.

HAVE YOU TAKEN STETS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENSHIP? . N°. GIVE PARTICULARS:

Na

j a rity areeaneneay
i


@

E.I¥-RORN OUTSIDE U. 8. WHEN Diy YOU FIRST ARRIVE IN THIS COUNTRY?

nye, -

PORT OF ENTRY? .. ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY?

LAST U. & visa —_

Yale | mercer 5°92". weicut

EYES ...._E COMPLEXION _.. SCARS under chin.
BUILD .. Slight... OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES _..oi@2..Vprer. left, ips
Sec. 3. MARITAL STATUS
A. SINGLE MARRIED x... DIVORCED WIDOWED _

STATE Date, PLACt, AND REASUN 7OR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS .

INCLUDING ANNUL-

B. WIFE OR HUSBAND (IF YOU HAVE BE
NG DATA REQUIRED

MENTS—USE A SEPARATE SHEET FOR
RELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MAERIAGES,)

Annie louise

NAME OF SPOUSE __.

LE

FLACE AND DATE OF MARRIAGI

MOSES ER) ADORESS KEFORE MARRIAGE RL..2, Zax. 74,

isan? Namie 2 (un

Livine on DECEASED 14¥4ng___ DATE OF DECEAS: oo CAUSE... NA
PRESENT, Oit LAST, ADDRESS... Same aS applicant _ a
Si and Navies AG ‘Baie romney
pare oF pirTu iS Fy 1927, pLack or mint Morgan City, Mississipri, UsA..
is) Suu) cosas

IF DORN OUTSIDE U. 8. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE oF ENTRY NA

CITIZENSHIP .- WHEN ACQUIRED?

F
occupation ..i2¢ Clerk vast EMPLOYER

Classified
vie

. BRANCH OF SERVICE —____

EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS ..

Binal ord)

NA.

aie)
.. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT. SERVICE, U. 3. CR FOREIGN

MILITARY SERVICE FROM .. Kk _..
tbat

COUNTRY . _...



Sec. 4 CHILDREN OR DEPENDENTS  (Inélude partial depeidents) : _

ughter _ aGE 22

-—— RELATIONSHIP }

. ADDRESS’... Saz@_a3.. -épplicant.._ at
CaS Namie osm)

ughter ace

_ RELATIoNsuip _D2u

. ADDRESS ____ Same as applicant ____
Wei Nese tery Bay

-—_-—- RELATIONSHIP —

sO so dependent)
Sec. 5 FATRER (tive the same information for stepfather and/or guardian on a separate sheet)

FLOGCPLACE OF BIRTH ~Asusdilla, Puerto idea
eons

Bute}

IF BOSN OUTSIDE U. S, INDICATE DATE AND PLACE oF ENTRY 1923 (March) NYC, NY

. WHEN ACQUIRED? uh ____._. WHERE? ... Puerto. Rico. _...
tei) state) (Caaaaeay

CITIEENSHIP ..
“ ocevpartoy _.Retined __ bast emprover —Do_not. remember

ici iiiaie) (Coane

~ BRANCH OF SERVICE __NA...

Sec, 6 MOTHER (Give the same information for stepmother ona separate sheet)

FULL Name ___.Frances.__.
fre)
LIVING O8 DECEASED

PRESENT, OS LAST, ADDRESS.

2
PLACE OF BIRTH -
Marri

WHEN ACQUIRED? _..1917.__.... WHERE? .. Havana, Cuba
: (Oty) the Coasteyd

DATE OF BIRTH

2 CITZENSHP
IF ROEN OUTSIDE U. S, INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY March 192), NYC, NY, USA

ro) LS eenaes



«@

occurarion ..... Retired Last estriover “Legnid De Lesoinekio
EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSINESS ADDRESS .....h8 Ste BYCy BY
: ist asd Named UGaT tia

MILITARY 5! 2 70... SA WRANCH OF SERVICE —.

sVice From BA

. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT, SERVICE, U..8. OR FOREIGN

country 2A
BA

Spc, 7, BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including half-, step-, and adopted brothers and sisters) :

Swe.

L FULL NAME 7 7 "
"PRESENT ADDRESS eee
18 ane Nomi
& FULL NAME —........ i reser BH paaretees
tinea ‘ans

PRESENT ADDR

(3e bog Numbers gaat

AGE _..

PULL NAME

cont) ius

PRESENT ADDRESS.

ea,

4. FULL NAME

iGan

3. FATHER-IN-LAW ‘

FULL NAME .

LIVING OR DECEASED Living... paTE or prcEASE HA... |... CAUSE... BA.

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS ......210 California sepaue, Lolend, Hinsissippl, Usa

eed Nualer)
PLACE OF BIRTIL ee BEA pees

DATE OF BIRTH _189S.

IDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF. ENTRY.

IF BORN OUTSIDE U, $. IN

. birth
.~. LAST EMPLOYER —...., Coknown.

CITIZENSHIP US WHEN ACQUIRED?

(Guay wre (eeairy

OCCUPATION .... Lavarce_..



See, 9, MOTHER-IN-LAW

FULL Naus M8 spaai Rebecca

« DATE OF DECEASR . KA...

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS 210 California. Avenue, Leland, 2:
‘(and Number who

pate or pinta 28 PLACE OF RIRTH

IF NORN OUTSIDE U. 8.

NDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY

arth | woere: UeSody
cig) tones

WHEN ACQUIRED?

me RELATIONSHIP:

ADDRESS ...

Sec, 11. RELATIVES BY BLOOD OR MARRIAGE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL SERVICE OF
THE U, S.OR OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT: ~

.- RELATIONSUIP _.

XOWS

(Seni

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)

este Fated

- RELATIONSHIP _

CITIZENSHIP ________. ADDRESS

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (!F KNOWN)

.- RELATIONSHIP _.

& NAME

CITIZENSHIP __ . ADDRESS.

(O) oer)



(6)

Sec, 12. POSITION ‘DATA

Seo covering dlspatch seferonce

A. KIND OF PUSITION APPLIED FOR ..

ALARY vouwiLtaccert? $£39Gx0. P/A,

BLWHAT IS THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRA

: E
i \ (You Will Not Be Considered Yor Any Position With A Lower Entrance’s

NG TO TRAVEL, SPECIFY: OCCASIONALLY -..

C.1F YOU ARE WILL

FREQUENTLY eee ees eee CONSTANTLY

D.CHECK IF. YOU WILL ACCEPT APPOINTMENT, IF OFFERE!

OUTSIDE THE UNIT

STATES»...

ANYWHERE IN THE UNITED BTATES ...._X.

E.1¥ YOU WILL ACCEPT APPOINTMENT IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY, SPECIFY LOCATIONS:

Sec.. 13. EDUCATION
Thomas (poshdpanss NYO BY.

: ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS

rapuater... ea

DATES ATTENDED ... 1.9267193h

HIGH scnoon ..La.valle.Acadeny. . apes 2nd Ste and, 2nd avenue NYC, NY USA

wer (Hate Chanter
36.

Xe

DATES ATTENDED 210. GRADUATE?

abpness Washington Squares NYG. liX.. UA.
Foreten Trade md‘) ‘(may 0 Cent
MAJOR AND SPECIALTY Fusiness Lav. yrans coMPLETED -2CH001) 7

sory

COLLEGENY University.

No

+ DEGREE ..

ie DATES ATTENDED

iat

COLLEGE _...

oe

ei”
~ YEARS COMPLETED ..

MAJOR AND'SPECIALTY

DECREE oe emee ene

DATES ATTENDED ...n—

CHIEF GRADUATE COLLEGE SUBJECTS -.



es - =
©. OR FOREIGN MILITARY SERVICE
Ue Se a

a tsieaei

Garp tale, Colo:

(lant Baten)

: : Se. MW. ACTIVE

202 Wy tOh,

Reread Mentor (Toye of Disckiares’,

“REMARKS. -
not remember .
SELECTIVE SERVICE ROARD NUMBER... .. ... ADDRESS ..

If DEFERRED GIVE REASON ...

CCOUNT
LSO PERIODS:

iF
INCL TUDE CASUA Y ME} NCLUDE
T. GIVE ADDR ‘N Saris WHAT YOU DID DURING

0
1ODS OF UNEMPLOYMENT, - LIST LAST POSITION FIRST, (List all civilian em-
ployment by a foreign government, regardless of dates.)

FROM
ee. covaring dispatch reference

EMPLOYING FIR OR AGENCY ...

Sea, 69, ent iigpateh reference
St ea Na
Uy, Sy Govt.

‘ AUDRESS _..

ieouniys

_oNAME OF SUPERVISOR ... 580, Covering dispateh

KIND OF BUS

PER...

TITLE OF JonYee. covering diapateh..... SALARY §6390.00.....

YOUR DUTIES w»-See.covering dinpatch. reference........

REASONS FOR LEAVTS

q IRICATION GRADE
rrom January. 1951... ro February, 1992... (iF IN FLDERAL SERVICE)

WY Mi Procurenent Agency.

GSe2...

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

ADDRESS _.

ison Lo.not renenber...

Ve Me Govte....., NAME OF SUPER

KIND OF BUSIN!

PeR..annwn..,

TITLE OF JOR ANSPES OT oes eee nee SALARY $.3525 000.

your puties Inspecting raterial being purchased by li, S, Govt, specifically

REASONS FOR LEAVING To. obtain present. positions
a



(8)

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY _.

ADDRESS ....Hall Streot, New York Citys WY, USA.

cSt and Nectar) tou) “hiatad oo ae

KIND OF BUSINESS .anKing _. neh. rorenber.

AME OF SUPERVISOR .+

Slerk._... SaLany £50400...

TITLE OF Jo .. Colle

‘your DUTIES .. -Axpart banking clerical work...

REASONS FOR LEAVING .

1 GRADE,
FromdJenuary 198° to... N SERVICE) MAL.

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY .@lonial Trust Compe

ie Appess Sth Avenue and hSth Street, NYC, NY, USA =

: pies ron satel ‘evi

j _TRINDOF nus! AME OF SUPERVISOR _D9,NOL |
i TITLE OF son Collections clerk |. saLany $8200. PER.

i
| YOUR DUTIES .,

REASON

FOR LEAVIN

: CLA
roseptember ON? (FIN FE

Prom August 1949. i ee

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY ...rancis.H..Legcett Inc.
28th Street and 12th Avenue, NYC, NY, USA

teat ross)

ADDRESS _..

KIND OF BUSINE NAME OF SUPERVISOR —Do. not. .ramenher.

TITLE OF JOB ..Corresponéence. Clerk... SALARY §. 57.00 _.

correscondence clerical. duties.

4] =

oe ey


aa,
rn

ESIGN FROM ANY POSI-
S WHICH YOU

N DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO
J ET A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANC!
XPLAIN? GIVE DETAILS:

best RETO
lO,

Sec. 17, GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS
GN LANGUAGES (STATE DEGREE OR PROFICIENCY AS “SLIGHT,” “FAIR” OR

A. FORE!
“FLUENT")
LANGUAGE Ypandsh speak Fluenb.. READ. Plueat... write ... Fluent.
Lancuace Portuguese sprax SHght . neav Pedr... wrire .SMght

. SPEAK READ WRITE

LANGUAG!

R.LIST ALL SPORTS AND HOBBIES WIUCH INTEREST YOU; INDICATE DEGREE OF PROFI-
CIENCY IN EACH:

Judo - Have attained "yellow belt" rank .
Thotoerarhy - = Very good degree of proficiency
Lin rad proficiency...
Philately - Fair dogree of Protietency
vm Pishing (no comment) oe

CAMIAVE YOU ANY QUALIFICATIONS, AS_A RESULT OF TRAINING OR EXPERIENCE, WHICH
MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR POSITION?

Yes, See covering dispatch reference.

D.14ST ANY SPECIAL SKILLS YOU TP S$ AND EQUIPMENT YOU CAN USE,
SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORT: LITH, COMPTOMETER, KEY PUNCH,

TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC OR PROFESSIONAL DEVICES:

All photographie devices,

APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF WORDS PER MINUTE IN TYPING 30... . SHORTHAND —._0..
9) teeomes



or

E.ARE YOU NowW oR WAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER OF ANY
TRADE OR PROFESSION, SUCH AS TILOT, ELECTRIC
LAWYER, CVA, ETC, :

IF YES, INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STAGE _..

; FInsT Lic. OR CERTIFICATE (YRY . LATEST Lie. OR CERTIFICATE (YR)

FLGIVE ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS NOT COVERED ELSEWHERE IN YOUR APPLICATION
i “i8UCH AS:. :
2 (1) YOUR MORE IMPORTANT PUBLICATIONS (DO NOT SUBMIT COPIES UNLESS REQUESTED)
set (2) YOUR PATENTS OR INVENTIONS
ie (8) PURLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE
(4) HONORS AND FELLOWSUIPS RECEIVED

SE, OR OTHER DISABILITY WHICH SHOULD BE

G.MAVE YOU A PHYSICAL, HANDICAP, DISE,
IF ANSWER Is “YES,” EXPLAIN:

7 CONSIDERED IN ASSIGNING YOU TO WORK!

Yes. 1 must wear glasses continually.

SITY FROM THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
GOVERNMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT ACT OL ANY PENSION OF OTHER COMPENSATION
FOR MILITARY OW NAVAL SERVICE? IF ANSWER I$ “YES,” GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS:



i
H
of

er
_@

¢ THE U. S—-WHO KNOW YOU INTE:
's where possible.)

Sec, 18. GIVE FIVE CHARACTER REFERENCE:
MATELY—(Give residence and business adda

State

.. BUS. ADD. ..
RES. ADD. .

BUS. ADD. -.
REST ADC

BUS, ADD. ..
RES. ADD. ...

.. BUS, ADD.
RES. AD:

BUS. ADD.

‘OW YOU SOCIALLY IN THE UNITED STATES—
RERV RS, OR EMPLOYERS— (Give residence

Sec. 19. NAMES OF FIVE PERSO}
NOT REFERENCES, I ATIVE
and busifiess addresses where possible.)

Street and Number city State
.. BUS. ADD, ‘|
RES. ADD,

. BUS. ADD.
RES. ADD.

Sec. 20. GIVE THREE NEIGHBORS AT YOUR LAST NORMAL RESIDENCE IN THE U. S—
(Give residence and business addresses where possible.)
Street and Number City State

RES. ADD. ..
BUS. ADD.
RES. ADD.

Sec, 21, FINANCIAL-BACKGROUND
A ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY

OF OTHER INCOME
BR Peri AND ADDRESSES OF BANKS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ‘ACCOUNTS.

36th Ste and. roaduay..and 4th. Avenue. EYC,.3
ay



©. HAVE YOU EVER RE!
GIVE PARTICULA\

D, CIVE TEREE CRED!
1, NAME,

2 NAME _..
3. NAME

RENCES Aa:
‘ADDRESS _...

ica aa ie
ADDRESS (i. (ciieri i
~ ADDRESS

Sec, 22, RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 ¥
FROM .ADTAL1252 To __P

{Ses eamber) Wi any ea

FROM .19)9__.__.. To _1952. 20 Ave. :D,. NYG, NY, US
ower: ine

2 ra NYC, NY
‘Siasivaaier) (Clay int

From Ad __ ro __1948_

FROM .._....._—. TO —.

FROM...

TTT

FROM

FROM

FROM

: TET nies
Sec. 22 RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES
a. From 1919. ee

From i2h2 ro 1Sh3

FROM 1952. To Present.

FROM

FROM

THT i

‘Sec. MM. ae

OCIETIE
PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES, EM-
p MEMBERSHIP IN, OR SUPPORT

‘(iame and Ghaptr)

DATES OF MEMBERSHD

‘(Name aod Ghapiery (St aad Nomen) (Gist (Sita)
-DATES OF MEMBERSHII



"(Baie find Chapter RE and utabe. 7

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: ~.....2.-....

"ian and Cay
DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: ......

& ..

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

Be

orerrertostons)
* DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

Sec. 25. MISCELLANEOUS
ADO YOU ADVOCATE OR HAVE YOU EVER ADVOC ATED; OR ARU YOU NOW On HAVE YOU

EVER REEN A MEMBER OF, OR HAVE YOU SUPPORTED, ANY POLITICAL PARTY OR ORGANE-

ZATION WHICH ADVOCATES THE OVERTHROW. OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOV-

ERNMENT IN THE UNITED STATES

IF “YES,” EXPLAIN: .... -...-.

BDO YOU USE, OR HAVE YOU USED, INTOXICANTS: ssecnses IF SO, TO WHAT

EXTENT? BORE WEED REO eee annette

G.HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF
LAW OTRER THAN A MINOR TRAFFIC VIOLATION? IF SO, STATE NAME OF COURT, CITY,
STATE, COUNTRY, NATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE:

Bs.

D.HAVE YOU EV N COURT-MARTIALED WIILY A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES?
VER IS “YES,” GIVE DETAILS BELOW:

.

: E.LIST BELOW THE NAMES OF GOVERNME:
WHICH YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOY

5 _-----.-_Reparteent.at Defense
~Fresent Orgasiestion ...



THE INVESTIGATION:
Federal, Finesse of. iavedtigatian ©.9k4.
~—TRLe Organisation - 1952

Sec. 26. PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY: : Scaaaseceeautinieia

ene nents nese RELATIONSHIP $8 Rennes

NAME . annte: Louise Ridalge ~
ADDRESS Same e9 appltgrtacccr i

Sec, 27. YOU ARE INFORMED THAT THE CORRECTNESS OF ALL STATEMENTS MADE
~ HEREIN WILL BE INVESTIGATED,

a)

ARE THERE ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENT? IN YOCR LIFE NOT MENTIONED ABOVE WHICH

MAY RE DISCOVERED

INVOLVED OR NOT, Wi
WER “NO.”

Sec, 28. [CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING ANSWERS ARE TRUE AND CORRECT TO THE
BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF, AND LAGREE THAT ANY MISST. ENT
OR OMISSION AS TO A MATERIAL FACT WILL CONSTITUTE GROUNDS FOR IM-

USE THE FOLLOWING PAGES FOR EXTRA DETAILS, NUMBER ACCORDING TO THE NUM.
BER OF THE QUESTION TO WHICH THEY RELATE, SIGN YOUR NAME AT THE or
THE ADDED MATERIAL. IF ADDITIONAL SPACE 1S REQUIRED USE EXTRA PAGES THE
SAME SIZE AS THESE AND SIGN EACH SUCH PAGE,



|

Section 14 = While an undercover avent for the
i! from.19h6 to 1949 I used tho nore
the Communist Party of the United

already on file in this organization,

Section 1D + I becam en Anoricen citizen at birth throuph the citizenship of
ny father, This informtion is already on file in this organization.

Section 3B = Ky wife is‘employed by this organization.

Section 10.- I have many relatives in opain and Cuba but do not correspond with:
‘them and so do not know nancs, aldresses or present status,

Section 18 = All persons mentioned in this section are employees of this organiation.

Sections 19 : :
and 20 = Not having lived in the UvA for over five years I have lost all contact
with old friends, neighbors, etc. I do not know thetr addresses,

status, ete,, at this time,

Section 25 = My past connections with ony suiversive groups and the reasons for
such connections 4 already on file in the files of tis orgonization.



RECORD OF :
PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT
SERVICE RETURNED TO

FEDERAL RECORDS CENTER IN

ST. LOUIS, MO.

