104-10174-10016|

cher previously could not-be satisfactorily backstopped.

“puilding without going past the desk,

1 atgust 1760

resdorf re June, COBB.

Harry Hernedérf informed Jean Pierson that he was going to Habana
on y. the Bist, and would contact June CORB. He was reminded that the Branch
was tt in accord with his contacting her in Cuba. He ‘replied that Col. Zing was
-interésted in the caze, and besides "he wanted some stamps autographed by CASTO"and

June could get it done. :
o

I discussed the proposed trip wit! who suggected that I see

rify the Branch feeling about the Cuba contact, to determine just

Harry again to clari
what the trip was really for..and as a last resort, 1f Harry intended: to go anyway,

t6 arrive at sone means of cormunicating with. CUBB since the plan he had séet “p with

{day morning, the 29th, I.agaih discussed the préposed trips
“again the WH/l position re CCBB. I also inquired :the purpose of the

“yhethér it was -primarily-for the purpose of contacting COBB.-"Harry said,.~
che was -theré he tholight ‘Ne would drop

trip,
“°NO, the had ‘other businéss’ but tNat as’ long
in to see her. ‘when I asked when and where, he replied probably at her apartment about . “!

ten cr tlevén at right. In reply to my query 4b to whether, this, was not a rather i
strange time for an unannounced visit; he said that there were several entrances to the 7
He.also said that he would be travelling under ae

Austrian papers’as Heinrich Heubner from Jamaica and would arouse no suspicion. :
commniecating with . ° §
_.. I expfessed some. doubt over the security of the rieans of alesting. COBB. set
‘up.by Harry daring her June trip to the States: since it was not backstopped. ‘there, tae
is dlgo.a lack of seturity-in.Rarry's previous visité to COBB's apartment, during his ot
May ‘visits. We had discussed the possibility of her apartiient being buggéed-ahd while
he Fecognized this possibility, did rot-seem too disturbed about it.

After talking with Harry, it wad apparent that’he would attexpt ‘to contact
COBB. I therefore discussed with Ralph True and Joe Langan the most secure method

e COSB'S arrival in ‘the States for. her next interview and polygraph. It was
decided to give Harry the name of a hotel into which COBB -Bhould checx upon arrival
after she.had received ous ‘signal to make the’ trip, “I phoned Harry on Sunday and. t
reminded him again that wa didnot approve of his contact with COBB in Habana, but
that. if he intended to’ dd, so’ despite our feéling in the matter, that he-should set
up some Signal by which we could alert her for’ the trip, and also tell her shé:was
to: check-into the Statler. Hotel rear Penn Station, The approximate date set for
her next, interyiew ould be the week of the 22nd of August...

sean’ Pierson”

