104-10408-10027]}. *

=
G ce Eisecceseeee ste

HEMORANDUH FOR: Deputy Director (Plens)
suByEcT 1 Related Mission Directive for Mexico

1. Attached te the revised Related Mission Directive for
Hexieo.
2. Your approval is requested.

E
a ate eh

CONCURs J
PAA (liad) $M. MINES



13-00000

I.

RELATED MISSION DIRECTIVE FOR MEXICO

GENERAL PROVISIONS

A

D.

Netional Policy, ‘The long-range national policy objec-

ves 6 @ 0.8. Government toward Mexico are to reduce
to an ineffectual level the influence of international
Communism, to encourage demeoratic government, ami tc
keep the Mexican government friendly and favorably in-
clined toward U, 8, policies. Purther guidance is given
in the current OCB Regional Operations Pian for Latin
Anerica,

Operational ia. The Station's primary emphasis,

ast aris = = placed on Slandestine fcollection 24
rations and covert action operationg & the

ino-Soviet bloc, Cuban, and Cosssunist elementa in Mexicc.

ghanges. in the KMD. ‘Thies basie policy inetruction for
activities in co has been revised in light of the
Station's last Annual Assessment of Progreas Report and
to reflect more accurately operational conditions, capa-
bilities and direction. In view of the importance and
threat presented by Communist Cuba to U. 8. interests in
Latin America, coverage of Cuban revolutionary activities
in Mexico has been made a specific requirement under
Priority A. Priority B objectives and tasks include
refinenents cf desired eafferts and alas provide for covert
action cperations against Cuban targets in Hexzico. The
former task for production of motion phturea and their
diatribution has been deleted, as it is no longer a valid
requirement; two former tasks pertaining to the possible
use of foreign diplomats have bean combineds: to
develop young potential political leaders ( ER) | has?
been added. Two previous ority C objectives have been
eliminated, as there is no @gtablished Kexican intelli-.27
gence service, and the Station regularly reports on
activities $f the Coverage of Chinese
Commnists has been raised to Priority B coincident with
the elimination of the former Pricrity C secticn.

Cont. enoy Reporting, In addition to the specific
objectives Bet Torth in Section II, the Station will from
time to time be called on to attempt to satisfy Intelligence



13-00000

xr,

Guides and Intelligence Directives, but it {s expected
that these requirementa be satisfied utiilaing existing
essets. Of particular interest cn a continuing basis

ip information on: (a) any indications that Mexico may
be used as a base for clandestine activity directed
against the U. 8. (CI Book Messages 63 and 115); (bd)
getivities of non-bloe intelligence services, especially
those that are potentially harmful tc U. 3, interests;
(e) the plotting of revolutionary groups according to
their current importance in attempts to overthrew the
re of their respective Latin American countries;

a current alignment and activities of political 24
oreés with the petential for assuming control of the
Mexican dovernmen &) U. 3. Communists residing in
Mexico; and (f) the enieh/Coamunist greup.

It will be noted that certain previous contingency
reporting requirements have been, amended ao follows:
The former levy for reporting on the stability of the
Mexican Government has been changed to 8 more realiatic
and meaningful statement as reflected by (d) above.
This modification is appropriate, as political changes
in Mexico are most likely occur within the framework
of titutionality. The bb banepe charge for reporting
on [secret shipments of strategic materials from Hexico 27
to Bloc countries is no longer specifically required and
has been deleted.

OBSECTIVES
TORITY A
1. Obtain information on Sino-Seviet bice plans and activi-

ties in Nexico, ineluding those of bloc inteliigence
services.

a. Continue and, where possible, increase poesaet and
technical surveillance of bloc installations and
residences.

b. Through controlied agent assets, identify and monitor
the activities of bloc personnel; if conditions
verrant, attempt recrul t or defection of bloc
personnel.

9)


13-00000

e. Continue CI operations againat blo¢ inteliigence
personnel] . .
@. Seek to reduce and, if possible, ¢liminate Communist
and leftist contrel or influence inf key governmental 2+
and non-governmental organisations, politics) parties,
masa media _outleta, and cther elementa that influence
public or Ef fics opinion and policiés.

a. Develop political action penetration axentsa tn key
functional groups, RY

iz in order ts disrupt and reduce

thelr eapacity-for carrying out acticn harmful to

G. S. objectives end interests.

o>. Expese and discredit illegal cr subvergive Sino-
Bovlet bloc ectivities and representatives in Mexico,
@s weli ag the activities and peracanel] of inter-
national) and iccall Communist front organizations.
os
ec. Identify, discredit, and if pessible eliminate
Coamemiata and nro-Commniste from strategic positions
in/ |
| st
Ey ! ‘ { AY
ad. Provide support and give guidance to individuals and
orgenizations that can be induced to produce and dis-

inate enti-Comunist, pro-Free World pre aa
= 2 5) peganda

‘Communist of other Gati-U, s. e1ements.
e. Caenti eye develop, and utilize important non-Communist_
te ita E
[esas

[ against

| Leaders / |

ageinat Com-
URist Influence and incu port views

ooingiding with U. 3. Government policy interests.
f. Continue to support and guide snt1-Ccmmniet(

{ ay
and when necessary, develop additional assets in key

AY

Clee)


13-00000

( €
aw
&- Develop and support cn the
ateffs of RY
a lop access to gran hbebireet ares organizations
24in the labor field and support nen-Comunist

eaders and groupe fin key untons.( 247
3. Obtain informatio:

| 4
i
ia : ranti-v. 3,
groups that may be susceptible to exploitation by Inter-
national Commnian,
7 a. = aE extend existing penetrations in the
ay /
b. Maintain penstratiens of the | rae
L
0, Develop and, if conditions warrant, reoruit 3 key

source in the isi lied
| and bloe
diplomatic installations. :

Ge tinue to moniter the activities of seleoted
sconmunisteinfivenced| “|r

| © condi ions —
‘Warrant, Bake selected recruitments in the, — Ry

jist
4, Continue to obtain information on Cuban Revolutionary

ectivities in Mexico and support U. S. Government efforts
against the CASTRO regine.

&, Continue to conduct penetration operations of Cuban
Embassy and induce defections of Cuban diplomats.

‘inten
bd. Reorult agents[— 7}. for operational use in

ce. Secure support er
for the conduct of operations against Cuba./ 24

a. Continue to provide operational support for activities

©


13-00000

2.

3.

diracted against the CASTRO regime in Cube,

e, Utilise propaganda

[ _ Vto combat the influence of
Cuban revolutionary ideologies in Mexico,

PRIORITY 5 ae

Combet jultra-nationalistic and anti-U, 3, ectivities in
Kexico,s and propagandize the dangers of Cgemumicm.
an 4

@ Utilize existing ets
to combat anti-U. S, propaganda or activities.
At
b. Utilize existing i ]assets to
prevent or nogate collaboration between Gitra-naticnalig
and Communists. Ble ay
c. Utilize J assets to prevent

or negate the socio-economic and cultura) penetration
plans or activities of the Sino-Scviet bloc,

PN Ax
ad. Spot fad developl for future jcovert eollaberaticn young
lceal figures who show potential for political loacer-
ship and whe may be influenced to become generally
favoreble to U. 8. interests.

2
Obtain information on the{georet intentions and activities

in foreign affairs, particularly

toward the U, Sj, the Sino-Soviet bloc, and Cubs.
24
&. Continue to develop find influence high leveX =

Collect information on the dino-Seviet bloc,

@. Gontinue penetration of airline and steamship officea
and 6fficial government agencies/to obtain advance
information on travellera, 24%

&. Heoruit or obtain the willing ccllaberation of selected
travellers to bleo countries, especially those who will
Yemain in bloe countries fer an extended period and
uho may be om sclentifie missions,

wa

‘Ue,


13-00000

4.

Be

a,

Recruit third nationals and Letin American
diplomats te be assigned or trangferred ta blec
countries,

at
Obtain migationg jintelligence on blos diplo-
matio traffic!

At
Obtain information ca the Chinese Cosmmists in Mexico.

2.

t, assees and recruit or develop sources in the
se commnity.
Ps
Exploit onf Chinese living in

Rexzico effact penetration of the
a4

Ye,
