# 104-10147-10359

## Page 1

104-10147-10359

"J UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

CIRA/O

O: (Officer designation, room number, an

wilding

1.

AC/CIRA

2.

3.

DC/CI

C/CI Staff

4.

PCS/LOC:

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL GO SECRET

ASCA

DATE

RECEIVED FORWARDED

EXTENSION

NO.

1592

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS fu in ach so colom of too dron mini

Legislative Counsel

7D 49 Hqs.

1 Auq78

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Вати

du WAND CARPY

agreas en

Apparently, identifi-

LA Division

cans from a conver-

Sation.

will

report

to IscA.

73. Bilit

610 USE PRONOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

(Phoned Blaker's

office of0d 1 Ang.

I left wessope that

we

think we

have

raleutty of one of

photos ).

6-5./ Wld, hetme

Wire the results

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECR

OLG 100 2460/21

311576

CI-294-78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Legislative Counsel

FROM

: B. Hugh Tovar

Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

SUBJECT

: Possible Identification of Person in

Photograph Released by the House Select

Committee on Assassinations

On 30 July 1978 the House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HSCA) released several photographs and com

posite drawings of persons who the committee hoped might

be able to "shed additional light on the assassinations. of

President John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr."

The photographs were shown on a newscast on Channel 5 (WTTG)

on 30 July.

CIA Career Associate Petr Sergeyevich Deryabin,

who saw the telecast, reported that the photograph showing

a profile view

of a man is that of Nikolay Sergeyevich Leonov,

"journalist" known to Deryabin as a KGB officer.

2. The July-August 1976 edition of the Soviet publica-

Latinskaya Amerika contained an article entitled "To

Your Health! Fidel" by "journalist N. S. Leonov."

Written

in connection with Castro's 50th birthday, the article

praised Castro highly and implied a personal acquaintance

between Leonov and the Cuban leader.

It also briefly

mentioned that the CIA had planned "a physical liquidation

Castro." Deryabin comments that he knows "journalist"

Leonov to be a KGB officer who has worked in Moscow

headquarters as well as in Mexico and Cuba. He believes

that Leonov's implied personal acquaintanceship with Castro

in fact stems from his official position as a KGB officer.

sHut Tomas

B. Hugh Tovar

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHOOS INVOLVED

FOR

BL IMINDI

CL BY 063765

22243

---

