# 104-10250-10198

## Page 1

104-10250-10198

ATTE

29- JUN 1954

Chiet,

TIDAL CO

650%

pocial

104

Chiel.

Dep

Seen Ecst

136 Files

134401

Ion to contact the sabject for Isformatiod regerang

donator asantion rocedures, with the possibility of request

ung the ninject to testry in court herines regerding denate

ralization of undesirable allers Tt, wes determined that

BitS

request el

routice ra ture and that the Sebject lo

ohh

oa115

enning fron his previous test liony before the

tres Control Soure In tre Writed States 1n 2952,

and

Tron

undercover use by the federal Puread of irvestin

thon

1916

isration bas been deceased tota

Chler

cis

HE/ Panese

goo agreed with the soggest

fic questions through this

d the eterial roturned to fus

request for

permission for

then brot

proceedinge

has been derted and seittal

the Subject

hed

also been denied ate situ

beer

Escuseed with 1ro

Staft C/LOB

the

procedure

as outiined above.

-03

Coat

the

the

Subjest

&S

attention of his office it the

em layce of this beency

brouch an

Latery Lon

mo restcontesyad during ettorte

formation"

00 58y

deem DDP

fiture

red

against the.

Subjecta

a this Agency.

Sted that this corice be notified arthe

resulte of

inquires you mey use to unto regarded

the artent

#ceroy,

edge of the su ect's

assoclation with. this

: ES.

vell es

8 po

22073

ar tore rentests for liaison with te

# 65077.

3 IN

---

## Page 2

It is vclieved possible 1f you so desire to have the

Subjectin Juts file sogregated Iron the normal files and placed

In a sensitive catogery of ILNS filce which pre reserved for

ectivities ascociated vith thie Agency•

FOR THE DIE CIR OF SEOBITI!

Robert N. Cunnirebam

Cc!

Staff C/ICB

#65077

HOATSON/ mia

6/21/54

---

