# 104-10185-10022

## Page 1

104-10185-10022

SECRET

#5/0/0p0 JOS

24, Feb El

DATE

TO:

FROM:

d. C

_ SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

B.

c.

D. [

A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED MERETO.

#ITH THE LIMITED ADENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REGUEST, FO/D IS UNABLE TO

SETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT IME SUBJECT OR NOT.

51/O HAS NO PERTiNENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF A COMTINUING SEARCH WAS

PEGUESTED IN SECTION IÃ, INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL PE REPORTED 1O

YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

t...

XX

SUEJECT: BiSTA, Lamberto

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

1. Be the following items:

amitato, Fome, Dspollo, 134, 15 Jul 53 CONFIDENTIAL.

@State, Milan, Dsp, No. 39, 22 Jul. 53 CONFID WITIAL.

c- State, Milan, Dsp. No. 205, 14, Jan 54 CONFIDATIAL.

2.

The Items cited above pertain to SUbJ:CT's Illegal export activities

with the Soviet bloc and to SUN CT's pro-lomunist esplonage

activities.

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEM THE SUSJECT IS NO LONGER IMPOOTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CAYCELLATION

NOTICE CCUPLETED, SHICLE SE SENT TO FI/D-

REVIER YOUO FILE DE SURSE SMEETS FRECUEATLY, AND SEND DO FILE THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMANO A CONTINUING NAME CHECH. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S

FACILITIES NITH CESTIRUIRS SEARCHES FOR INCOGMATIDS THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO:

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

11Mg

FIDE DESIÇTITOR

EXTENSICE

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

VIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SFCRET

BESTA, Lamberto

3. ALIASES. MARIANT SPELLINGS, CTC HUMBERS. ETC.

3. BIRTA DATE

H. BIATH FTEÁLY

8. PRISEN ¿§ Vil' 188d8S1J0" Milan

7. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

Ons Ewort Imort firE LASE (OT LEEX)

1a Milen

B. MILITARY SERVICE

SERVICE DEM, ECUNTRY

PASi CCUPATIONS

SPECIALTY

• RESPONSE TO GREEN LIST

REQUEST NO 103666

CATE OF RECUEST_

20 Fab 61

REQUEST FRON

03

ORIGINAT 14G OFFICER

F1/0/0p8

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

DOOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

3661

14, MAS CONTINUINE SEERCH REQUESTEDT

• YES

¡JTYPE OF RECUEST

-FIRST TIME SUMMITTED

_ADDITIONAL DATA

_COVER

30.

INTEREST IN SUBJECT

WESPIGGAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

XOG OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

17: '"REGaTION REQUIRED

- 40

• LOCATION

ACTIVITY

LOCATION

DATES

. *

CATES

10. DESCRIFTINA

i MEIGHT)

• (WEIGHT)

11. SPOUSE (IF MIFE, GUIE RUNDEN LAME)

12. OTHER MiMOERS OF IMMERIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCIATES

(EYES)

(FacE)

(GIHER)

13. OTHER SIGRIFICANT CS'S (POLITICS, RELIGION, ETC)

ATTSCH ENTRA SHEETS IMEN REEDED

INSTRUCTIONS:

INSERT CARBON; FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

rons. 501 vos pocvlava

SECRET

SEE 6S1-10-7

---

