# 104-10179-10222

## Page 1

104-10179-10222

jad?

1.205m

I jeer.'

Cop!

06

2à)

Personal ho.

33+0

20

to ii shiftatory.

A19

elaht persons

arpeared before sn expairint

magistrate

and

Immieration

Ait

Genero!

or?

pleaded gullty to pi ences

agairst Firearms Act.

aisinst

•30%1

outined facts known to police.

Accuse:

regraceite; by Soilcitor

Janes Liddell

who urres."

Court

that accused er

on Anguilla ray because trel, rossel

WaS

1r. A15tr=55.

"aristo,te seens to have

acrarted

story.

le fines act accused five pounds on charge under

Act ind cautiored

Immigration

and discharged

then on

Acte

charge tr..er

He creered

that arms ard

annunition and

explosives recovered by Royal Navy be conderre:.

2..

Your telegram lo: Personal 49 passirelic. Fersonal 2

from

kashireton.

Cubans have Informed Conzissiere: of Police

that

they are trying

to make their vessel seewortry but that-

11° 1t

1s not ready for sea hy morning

of June 5 xte: 0111

charter vessel locally.

Their Intention 1s to return to

Miami

and leader of party has said he will go thorce to

Costa fica.

Trom here would fourney to pue to Pico in any sosil vessel

be hazardous particularly in pagsage round

eastern end of Cuban coast.

We have no direct car-exion

with Puerto Fico and 11 Cubans travelled by afr they rould

have to go to Miami.

I cannot dictate to them were they

are

10 80.

Sole legal

concern of local authorities is io see

that

be deported.

three este a procan request in your diesrang or

sugrost tliat it nould be most unwise for us to sec: to

arrange uly special assistence to get these nen do fuerto

Rico nartictiarly

after surprising leniency

of macistrate

which of Itself will certainly arouse adverse corent from

Government of Cuba.

Your paragraph 4 enquiring whether Varued. Ray ras

arrested in party.

Leader of party told Head o?

Sped al

Branch privately that he was Ray. but this was no? sinitted

by others.

although

police trink that he

To tinkered he manner see firk

may well be Ray,

proper

course 1g to treat hia

as being Martinez.

10/RS

---

