(fo 08s

FIELD DOUBLE AGENT GUIDE

August 1960

HRP

"KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY Copy No. 134

. ERP SECRET



Astasthngiice err alae RN AA

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

FIELD DOUBLE AGENT GUIDE

August 1960

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

{

a


i

_

Son Ree

S agggyane ~hierearoaaaeamesniniae aetna

L

a

ay i¢ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

FIELD DOUBLE AGENT GUIDE

TABLE OF CONTENTS

SUBJECT

INTRODUCTION

THE DOUBLE AGENT OPERATION:
GENERAL PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS

A.

B

c,

DB.

Definition

DA Types by Origin

1, Transfers

2. Walk-In or Talk-In
3, DandD

4, Provocation

Goals in DA Operations

1, KUBARK
2, Adversary

Selection and the Four Key Tests
L The Tests

a. Withholding

b. Stayability

ec, Adversary Trust
d, Control of Communication

i
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

wo ona cm

-(D SEC

PAGE

2-24

Copy No.



A-OOG00

ZL
BA SECRET

(4 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
SUBJECT PAGE
2. Significance of Tests 2B
3. U.S, Citizens as DA's 2-B
; E, Planning and Prelirninary Steps 13-24
1, Estimating Adversary Goals B
i 2, Information Needed for Planning 13-17
i 3. The Plan 17-22
i 4, Preliminary Testing of Bona Fides 23-24
Ml. THE DOUBLE AGENT AS A PERSON 25-33
A. Willingness 25-26
B. Emotional Stability 26-27
: C. Emotional Attachments to Others 27-28
D, Level of Intelligence 28
| E, Gullibility - Scepticism 29
F, Trustworthiness ” 29-30
H G. Ambition 30
| H, Clandestinity 30-31
: I, Introversion - Extroversion 32 :
J. Other Traits 32
K. Summary 32-33
aE
: it Copy No.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

BGP SECRET

i
|
i
H



: | A KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
i SUBJECT PAGE
: IV, THE DOUBLE AGENT AS AN AGENT 34-46 : fi
f A. Prior Intelligence Associations 34 :
é _B, Continuing Investigation 34-35
i GC, Training 35-36 |
: D. Testing 3640
i E. Control 41-44 1
; F. Agent Motivation : 44-46
4 V. _ THE DOUBLE AGENT OPERATION: 47-69
: SPECIFICS ~
i i) A. Access 47-51 : i
i B. Appetite 51-52 i
: C. Production 52-55
i D. Mirror-Reading 55-56 i |
i E, KUBARK Security i 57-60 :
i F. Adversary Security 60-61
; G. Communications 61-64 i
i }

ii
. KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

stearate vcmeetrosaee
1
j ¢



BB SECRET

ee tat ‘|. KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT :
H, Finances - 64-67

L Reporting a 67-69 '

Q

VL CASE OFFICER'S CHECK LIST 10<82 :

vo, INDEX i 83-90 i

i

i
t i
' i
eee
j i

- iv _. . » Copy No.

_ JKUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

ee ce seaneagatiat



eee]

a
3

opens cena nA MAMRNA Nae De RNE NSH ERATE is hte ak Nate Ana ede tee a

PRR eangaphp getancn,

co]

°

For the past two years KUDESK/has been engaged in a
detailed analysis of KUBARK double agent cases, The
results have been collated, and the findings have been dis-
seminated within headquarters in a study which is also
available to the field upon request.

If field reporting of double agent operations:includes all
essentials discussed here, further research on this subject . }
will be facilitated and further guidance’will'result,.in’a’

continuing cycle, : L.

The comments and views of the users of this guide are
solicited, t

a ae sister

“~ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ~

Field Guide for Double Agent Operations

i, INTRODUCTION

Others concerned with DA operations, It represents both
the above research and the views of a number of experienced
and senior KUBARK officers,

This guide is intended for field use by case officers and a i
t

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ~



KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

UW. THE DOUBLE AGENT OPERATION:
GENERAL PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS

A discussion of operational details appears in Part V
of this guide, Here the purpose is to present basic infor-
mation and principles about the beginnings of DA operations.

A. Definition,

A double agent is a person who engages in clandestine
activity for two intelligence or security services (or more
in joint operations), who provides information about one to
the other or about each to the other, and who is wittingly
withholding significant information from one on the instruc-
tions of the other or is unwittingly manipulated by one so
that significant information ig.thheld from the other.
service. Peddlers, fabricataFe, and others who do not per-
form a service for an intelligence organization, but only for
themselves, are not agents at all and therefore-are not _*
DA's. Asa rule the DA has an agent relationship with both
services, a fact which distinguishes him: from the penetration
agent, who usually serves the CI service as an agent but the.
target or adversary service as a staff member or ina staff
capacity, Multiple agents frequently draw a variety of
assignments from several services. Although they may pro-
vide counterintelligence information, and although they
present difficulties in handling and security which resemble
these problems in the double agent operation, the two types
are distinct. The DA is usually directed against a single
adversary, whereas the multiple agent resembles a private
detective with a number of clients.

The part of the definition which stipulates the with-
holding of significant information results from the fact that -
an agent who tells everything he knows to both sides becomes,
unless unwittingly manipulated by one of the services, an un-
authorized liaison channel with the enemy, Such situations
are unprofitable and cease to be operations,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



5 Ay RERUNS AO RST TE A EAP ML TSS ne a

3 Bgiagene m mccrioncinrareccencasnctienee —*

f
:
i
i
:
i
i
i
:
+]

i)

iS)

“wayé: a walk-in or talk-in, hostile agent detected and

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

B, Types of DA Operations by Origin.

Almost all double agent operations begin in one of three

doubled, or a provocation, KUBARK often acquires a DA :
case by transfer from another ‘ODYOKE service or from .

liaison; when it does, it is important that the type of origin

be included in-the information obtained from the transferring

service.’ A DA,case can also result if one service offers

recruitment to the agent of another not because of provoca-

tion or stake-out but by chance,

1,. The Transferred Agent.

Analysis suggests that nearly two-thirds of KUBARK's
DA operations begin (for KUBARK) by transfer from another |‘
service, Usually, however, the transferring service merely
made initial contact with a walk-in and turned him over to i
KUBARK without having used him operationally, If a going we
operation is transferred, it is vital that the base or case A
officer accepting jurisdiction obtain the case records of the
prior service. If.these:are-unavailable; knowledgeable; ::.
representatives of the transferring service'should be de-
briefed as completely-as‘possible, Flaws imbedded ‘in ‘the
operation may make it unsuitable for exploitation or may
require correction, In addition to determining origin, the
KUBARK case officer should obtain the prior service's
assessment of the DA, both as person and as agent. Even
if the case officer considers that the earlier handling was
defective, he should give due weight to such an assessment.
In a few operations KUBARK has repeated the mistakes. of
the transferring service through failure to obtain an assess-
ment or through ignoring the earlier record.

2, The Walk-In and Talk-In,

More than half of KUBARK's DA cases start because
an agent of an adversary service volunteers information to a

+3 ‘eee,

: KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

et ne ie



 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

non-Bloc service or official, Although the danger of provo-
cation is always present in walk-in cases, the fact remains
that DA operations that have begun in this way have, as a
class, proven more rewarding to KUBARK than any other
type. The agent of an adversary sezvice who approaches

/ KUBARK and volunteers information about the adversary has

a choice of 2 number of means of making the first contact.
o presenting himself physically (to KUBARK or
"intermediary), he can send an emissary,
write a letter, make a phone call, or even establish radio
contact. KUBARK's problem, clearly, is to separate the
walk-ins and talk-ins who are acting on their own initiative
from those who are seeking contact at the instigation of a
hostile service. c

3. Detected and Doubled (D & D).

About a fifth of the DA cases handled directly by
KUBARK have begun with the identification of a hostile
agent, interrogation, and doubling, Analysis ‘suggests
that in peacetime D-& D.cases are frequently perilous and <.

amprofitable. .The:agent's agreement 'to double, obtained
- under -stated .or.implied: dure

is rarely accompanied by~

a real-switch-in loyalties. . The likeliest exception is the
agent who served the adversary unwillingly, under pressure,
and who (though afraid to approach the authorities on his own
initiative) is relieved when his clardestine role is brought

to light. The risk in handling D & D cases is also mitigated
in joint operations conducted with liaison services that can
exercise strong executive authority.

4, The Provocation Agent,
Provocation is the least common origin of DA cases.
When employed, it has, in the past, been used by a Bloc
service against KUBARK or another Western service more
frequently than vice-versa, Provocation may be direct, as
a4 ed

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



settee ial ones eee iro nardbestateg oe

foes nenomusuessetnio tere

i ei

oO

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

in an approach by a walk-in or talk-in, or indirect. The
latter technique usually employs an agent whose access

and other assets make him attractive to the adversary and
who places himself in the way of recruitment without seizing
the initiative. Provocation through direct approach is
plainly difficult if the adversary service is sophisticated,

Even the agent whom we initially consider detected
and doubled can be a provocation. We may have learned
something (but not all) of the story of his ties to the adversary
because the adversary wanted us to. Or the agent's con-
fession may be partial; he may withhold, for example, one
channel of communication to the hostile service and then,
through that channel, ‘tell the adversary how much he has
told us,. s

A provocation agent establishing initial contact as on

a walk-in must have direct contact with the target service

at least once, And the target service, if interested in the
bait, is likely to try to arrange for future meetings on s
territory under its jurisdiction (or that of a cooperative
service), Under such circumstances the provoking service
usually fears some slippage of:control, - The provocateur”
‘who never appears - who makes contact only by mail, W/T,
a-go-between, or a like medium - is less likely to be
acceptable to the target service, and if accepted is less
likely to be trusted, But the security and control advantages
for the provoking Service are obviously weighty.

KUBARK use of provocation seems to be a rarity,

so that the available evidence has not provided a basis for ia

estimating our effectiveness in using the technique, Because
its value has been demonstrated by others, however, personnel
are urged to plan and mount, as feasible, provocation oper-
ations designed to yield counterintelligence of high quality.

' §, The way in which a double agent operation starts
is of continuing significance. The chances that KUBARK

etme: -5- “eRNeE a

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Sere aScengt ewan en nr

|

H



BBP SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

will "get the edge" are best if the agent's prior service

was with KUBARK rather than the opposition, are better
than average if he is a walk-in who has aot delayed in

telling his story to a non-Communist official or service

and who passes KUBARK testing, and are poor if a detected
adversary agent has been compelled fo’double, As the oper-
ation develops, the case officer should:not forget the
significance of the way in which it started,

C. Goals: Kubark and Adversary,

-~6- emae
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

i
{



,KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-T-

i
3
3
3
3
ki
a
Z
g



P

SEP SECRET
va

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

RBs

vA
ECRET
f-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

va

ees



i
i

WORDNET ta ERNE TIOGA

bs

Sregereene net rece sete

Z
CEB SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2, Adversary Goals,

Analysis of a number of unilateral KUBARK double
agent operations has shown the following adversary objectives,
listed in order of descending frequency:

a, To obtain information on emigres and emigre
groups outside the Bloc, This goal is frequently coupled
with the purpose of gaining information about AIS (or other
non-Communist IS) use of emigres.

b. To penetrate the AIS or other non-Communist
services,

-9- ‘eanenmsaia,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

{
H
i
1
if
i



wre

eee SECR i

vA KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

¢. To acquire intelligence about U.S, non-intelli-
gence personnel and organizations abroad, principally
military,

4, To serve other adversary operations ina
supporting role.

e. To obtain information about AIS-associated
organizations abroad,

f, To assassinate or kidnap,

g. To ensure the safe return of an agent detected
by the AIS,

h, To exploit for KUCAGE purposes.
i, To recruit or place an agent inside PBPRIME,

j. To establish an agent as a long-range illegal
in the West.

k, To determine the fate and whereabouts of Bloc
intelligence defectors.

The early discernment of the adversary's true ob-
jectives is important because determination of hostile
appetite, obtaining clearances for release of information to
the DA, other operational decisions, and termination and
disposal require an understanding of the purposes of the
opposition, Of course, the ultimate goals of the hostile
service may not become evident for some time. But esti-
mates based on targets, access, and the DA's potential are
still useful,

D, Selection and the Four Key Tests.

1, The testing of a double agent should be continuous,
and a wide choice of testing mechanisms is available, But

-10- DERE.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
f

G88) SECRET
ites Gey Gumitnsisaieetme



es nes sn ereaN at eer ae

7)

ry

c

G

es

SB SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

before a decision is reached on accepting or rejecting a
DA opportunity, asking the following four key questions
will help us to strike the balance,

a, Has the potential DA told us everything? Or
are there any indications of withholding? In particular,
is there reason to suspect that he has withheld a communi-
cations channel to the opposition?

b, Does the prospective DA have stayability? That
is, is he emotionally and psychologically stable, and are
there good prospects of conducting the operation on a long-
term basis? Can he sustain the anticipated stresses
indefinitely ?

c, Does the opposition trust him? Some indication
of degree of adversary trust may be found in his length of
service, che nature and level of his assignments, level of
pay, and quality of communications systems provided him,

ioete mesic HIPS BTL VNR arate

-L- SR

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

|

j
}
|
}



/

BBPR SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Direct control of a DA's W/T link would require
the presence of the KUBARK case officer whenever the agert
xeccives or transmits. Although direct control is not
usually feasible, monitoring all incoming and outgoing
transmissions permits effective indirect control. Such
monitoring has the advantage that it can be concealed from
the DA,

Most agents to whom hostile services communi-
cate by one-way voice-link are scheduled to receive broad~
casts at least once a week, One preliminary test of bona
fides, accordingly, is the monitoring of the next scheduled
message after initiation of the double agent operation,

2, A potential DA operation need not be rejected because
it fails to pass all four tests. But ncgative answers are danger
signs, marking the elements of the case which must be
regularly re-evaluated as the operation progresses.

-R- ROTA

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

|
|
i
i
i



“KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY |

E, Planning: and: Preliminary Stepss""":

1,’ Before.a DA operation starts, a considered plan ,
should-be prepared, In its details the plan is necessarily
more tentative than is riost operational planning because
the operational initiative rests - and should rest - almost
i?) entirely with the adversary. But usually we. can estimate

e the goals of the opposition at or near the beginning ofa DA Z
case, If we have.a good idea of what the enemy-is after and
if we know everything essential to our-part‘of the case, the
hidden fraction which. constitutes the: double ‘life of the agént’’
and the operation, then we can plan effectively.

-B-: “ Geeta

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ‘ Gee

Sy leant or aera ee ae



“KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-Me

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



i
if
F
1
. i
; i
i
:
i
{ !
i '
' 1
i if
1 i
i I,

-15- Ty

©) 7 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



cece rien ie otek NA CAA AOU

3

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

. -%
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY.

oa sR



et re erate ence SNE ETE A EEA HOES SP Stee

KUBARK INTERNAL USE-ONLY : 2
‘BBP SEQRET

» KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
-lt-
Sah bia aereat rene

C. — A

A
eh



@RP SECRET

é KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 18 -

,om INTERNAL USE ONLY

Big secret
a oe djessiasseBtarseei aoe SLED

i
|

ipenressersaae laey asneaa


a

tA KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY 7

-19- wRESEaIne:
rw) KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

a
REP SECRET
oe

Rastegame tat:

Spo saattaitc err aameomrene ton corse

pee

a
Z Bosminwee


T

iar SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-20-

_¢ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

#8 SECRET

i
i
i
{
H


EB SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY i.

m, Time and support available, The base or
station planning a double agent operation should consider
whether enongh time and support will be available. Ideally,
the case officer who will conduct the operation should be
staying in the field for a lengthy period, so that a transfer
is not required soon after the operation has started. He
should have enough time to conduct and report the case
well, Assistance should be available when needed for
surveillance, countersurveillance, monitoring of radio
communications, control of hostile dead-drops, continuous
testing and assessment of both agent and operation, and
other time-consuming essentials, If time and support are
inadequate, the operation may consist almost entirely of
periodic debriefing of the DA, with little or no attempt to
obtain information independently, Under such circum-
stances it may be better, at the outset, to drop other activity
to make room for the case or to reject the prospective DA
operation,

n, Termination and disposal, In some long-range
operations no plans for termination and disposal can be
made at the outset, In other cases, and especially those
intended to run for shorter periods, it is best to plan the
ending at the start.

-21- eageess

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

a
LZ
‘EBD SECRET

se ctenme rane fee ee gf

woman if

we eget.


SEH SECRET
4

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ~

Prosecution is normally ruled out because of
the necessity to avoid condonement and legal entanglement,
But if a decision to prosecute can be reached at the
beginning, all subsequent handling can be designed to pre-
serve the chain of evidence and other requirements of the
court, In such cases, including those involving U.S.
citizens, KUBARK should either bow out, as a rule, or
seck immediately the assistance of a duly constituted
executive authority.

|
i
|
|
|
i
i

Joint operations usually present fewer problems
of termination and disposal because of the facilities avail-
able to the host service, If a unilateral DA case is to be
turned over to liaison, it is usually best to do so before th-
dwindling equity has disappeared completely, so that there
is more chance that liaison will accept jurisdiction and
less chance of irritating the liaison relationship, Ezrly os
transfer has two other advantages; it minimizes the amount
of information which the DA acquires about KUBARK, and H
it facilitates legal detention in those cases in which pro-
longed interrogation of the DA is desirable,

-22- weve.

UUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



F

WR SECRET

~ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY é

4, Preliminary Testing of Bona Fides,

A thorough testing of bona fides requires the ave/l-
ability of all the information outlined above and in Part IV
of this guide... But in one or two initial meetings the case :
officer can conduct the following quick and preliminary

tests, to be augmented by deeper probing as the operation
develops,

¢. If the agent arrived on the scene recently, any
friends or relatives of his in the area should be traced
quickly, If he is a provocation agent, he may have ordera
to establish contact with a friend or relative who has an
established IS tie,

i
1
‘
i.
i

a. The agent's documents should be subjected to
technical examination,

: e. If LCFLUTTER is to be used at all, the first H
i test should be made as early as possible, Refusals to

H undergo testing should be reported, as well as any indi- :
t cations that the agent has been briefed on the technique. 7

tee np - 23 - SRI
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
ri
SBP SECRET

een
Fisagenen



(BB SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

{, The interviewer or prospective case officer
should be on the alert during initial meetings for phrases
or concepts characteristic of clandestine activity and for
any other clues to prior intelligence training or experience
which the agent is concealing.

g. The agent should provide dates and reasons
for any errests, Arrests in denied areas, followed by com-
paratively quick release, may indicate intelligence recruit-
ment.

h, The prospective DA may be asked to signa
statement that if he is held and surfaced by the opposition
or exploited for purposes of propaganda, this fact will
constitute prima facie evidence of coercion, Refusal to
sign may indicate hostile control, although it may also
indicate timidity, Ifa DA operation is conducted and if

the DA later remains or is detained in a denied area, where
he is used for purposes of Communist propaganda, the
signed statement may be useful,

It is stressed that this list of suggestions is
intended to serve only as a superficial guide to assessment
of bona fides before the operation is launched. Much more
information about the DA as both person and agent is re-
quired for the estzblishment of bona fides,

-24- See:
_FROBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

/

hs


ot

}

arn sentnenarccenner

ae

é

(GBB SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY (

MI. THE DA AS A PERSON

In the opening phase of the DA operation, as was
mentioned earlier, all basic personalia on the agent and
selected associates are assembled, bona fides are deter-
mined or estimated, and a preliminary psychological
assessment is drawn up, Somewhat later, but still early
in the case, a more searching examination should be made
of the agent as a person, This assessment, sent to head-
quarters as a separate dispatch, should include informa-
tion about the following topics,

The following discussion of the psychological charac-
teristics of double agents is based upon research and
analysis of unilateral, peacetime, KUBARK cases, Our
postwar experience strongly suggests that there are vital
differences between peacetime DA's and DA operations and
those directed in war, when patriotism, idealism, and
subordination of self were more frequently encountered.

A, Willingness to serve as a DA,

The results of case analysis to date amply demonstrate
the importance of establishing whether the agent wants to
be a double or not, Those peacetime DA's who enjoy the
role tend to share, in greater or lesser degree, a number
of distinctive psychological and emotional characteristica,
An understanding of these traits is extremely useful to
the case officer, Unwilling DA's, serving cither service
or both against their own inclinations, are more variegated
but are usually unlike the willing doubles in major respects.
They usually seek - consciously or not - to end the oper-
ation as quickly as they can without damage to themselves
or those emotionally close to them, Therefore a long-range
plan, of indefinite duration, based upon an unwilling double
agent is very likely to founder because of his persona lity
rather than external, operational factors.

-25- GS

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

ate



: zx
Qa SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ~ |

1, In the operations studied to date willing DA's have
outnumbered the unwilling in a ratio of seven to one,

2. Ina majority of the KUBARK DA cases studied to
date the case officers have made little or no attempt to ex-
plain in writing the kinds of persons with whom they were
dealing, It is plein that case officers cannot be expected
to produce professional psychiatric or psychological analyses,
nor are these usually necessary, It is also clear that case
officers invariably form an estimate of the agent's per-
sonality. But if the estimate is dim, unformulated, or
unreported, two drawbacke result, The case officer's
handling of the agent is weakened; and the quality of help
from headquarters, station, or elsewhere also suffers,
Our experience shows that there is a high correlation be-~
tween a sound assessment and a sound operation.

B. Emotional stability,

1. More useful than a general conclusion about the :
DA's emotional stability is a report of the circumstances ~ {
under which he is stable and unstable,

2, Willing DA's show much higher-than-average
emotional stability in stress situations, which they tend
to dramatize and enjoy. For example, they often show
little or no reluctance to meet the adversary in a denied H
area. (They are apt, however, to exaggerate their cool-
ness under fire when reporting on the adversary.) Con-
versely, they are less stable in slack periods than are |
most persons, Suffering from boredom rather than tension,
they may relieve the monotony by heavy drinking, sexual
2dventurousness, or shady financial deals. Their
dangerous restlessness evaporates, however, when they
are kept busy operationally,

3. Unwilling DA's show the reverse pattern, They ,
avoid situations of stress and are agitated by them. They

= 26 - eaiooREop,
i KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



\
|
|
|

Gee SEC

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

do their best work under safe and routine conditions. DA's
who are unwilling but valuable require much help and
reassurance from case officers, especially in the form of
detailed security safeguards.

C. Emotional attachments to others,

1, The voluntary double agent often seems incapable
of forming lasting, adult, emotional relationships with
others. His attitude toward other people is basically com-
petitive and exploitative. Many willing DA's have been
divorced at least once and have gone through a series of
mistresses. Because most willing doubles are good con-
men and good verbalizers, they are usually adept at creating
an impression of sincere feeling, of courtesy and concern
for others. Sometimes they are good enough actors to con-
vince themselves, temporarily. Most of the time, however,
they are emotionally empty. One conscquence is thata
KUFARK case officer handling a willing DA in time of peace
should be extremely chary about concluding that esteem or
friendship for the case officer plays a significant role in
the agent's motivation, The DA may feel a close rapport
as a result of the clandestine nature of the association rather
than the personality of the case officer, but even this reaction

_is likely to last about as long as the agent meeting. Another

practical consequence is that the location of members of

the voluntary DA's family is likely to be much less important
as an element of control than it may seem, The agent may
feel close to one or more persons, more commonly a son

or daughter than a wife or parent; but even such bonds are
not typical, The defector or double who left a wife behind

in a denied area and who continues to express concern is
likelier to be reacting as he thinks he is expected to react
than to be expressing sincere and deep feeling,

2, Unwilling DA's are unlikely to be demonstrative,

but they do seek enduring emotional relationships. Their
concern about members of the immediate family is likely

-27- eachussace

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

H

\
i
i
|
|


/

/

S222 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

to be genuine, In fact, it may have been this concern
which the adversary exploited in recruiting the agent,
Un-villing DA's tend either to remain aloof or to seek
filial relationships with case officers,

D, Level of intelligence.

1, Both willing and unwilling double agents are
characteristically above average in terms of intelligence,
Willing DA's usually think quickly and show cleverness;
their extent of formal education (well above average) and
their typical vocations suggest some depth of intelligence
(but not feeling) as well, The fact that willing DA's are
almost invariably without funds or property reflects not a
Jack of intellectual competence but a tendency to trust to
their wits, not to their bank accounts.

2, Linked with high native intelligence is the voluntary
DA's skill as a verbalizer. Typical overt occupations in
this group are those of interpreter/translator; editor,
journalist, writer, or speaker; bibliographer; teacher; and
salesman, The DA may be at home in two or several
languages, One drawback is that his reports, both verbal
and written, may require careful stripping before the plain
facts can be discerned,

3. The willing DA's combination of intelligence and
unscrupulousness make him as hard to handle as a two-
edged razor blade. One piece of usually applicable advice
can be offered, The case officer should avoid competing
with the DA, Relying on the authority inherent in his posi-
tion, the case officer can best handle a clever, competitive
double through calm firmness, not through evident anger.
Willing DA's are likely to respond well to a stick-and-
carrot or kick-and-kiss technique, "Your last report was
excellent, but it was not as good as the work I expect from
aman of your abilities, '"

- 28 - Rammerien,.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE*GNLY

g

ate SeRET

i
\
i
i



KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

E, Gullibility - scepticism.

1, Willing DA's are usually sceptical about the motives
and abilities of others but unsceptical about themselves,
They distrust others, including those with whom they are
on terms of intimacy. They are frequently cynical, They
tend to underrate the adversary ~ and presumably KUBARK -
and to overrate themselves.

2. Unwilling doubles are also sceptical, though less
so than the hardbitten, willing types, and they are as
sceptical about themselves as about others.

F, Trustworthiness.

1, Willing DA's can be trusted to follow instructions
that coincide, in their view, with their own int-rests. They
become unreliable if the case officer's orders conflict with
their wishes, Confronted with indications or evidence of
the agent's untrustworthiness, the KUBARK case officer
should consider whether the unreliability is the result of
the agent's loyalty to the adversary or of his own ego-
centricism, The former cause ends the case or puts it on
a totally different footing, The latter is merely one of the
facts of DA life, to be expected and countered by inde-
pendent checks and sound handling.

2, The scanty evidence available on the trustworthi-
ness of unwilling doubles suggests that on a day-by-day basis
they are more reliable than their opposite numbers. If they
disagree with the cace officer's instructions, as they are
particularly likely to do if an element of personal risk is
involved, they will usually express their concern. But if
they accept an order, they will normally try faithfully to
carry it out, Ona long-range basis, however, unwilling
DA's cannot be considered reliable, because the indefinite
continuation of the operation is directly contrary to their
wishes. They are prone to make deliberate or unconscious
slips which will end the operation without bringing retribu-
tion down upon them,

-29- REACT,
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

BP, SECRET
eames oe 4

|
|


r

eae SECRET

(GBF SECRET
ey eats

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

3, Part I, paragraph D, listed the four key questions
used in deciding whether to accept a DA opportunity. One
of the questions is whether the opposition trusis the DA,

In the continuous task of agent assessment, the KUBARK
case officer, therefore, should mirror-read, Is adversary
confidence in the DA diminishing, increasing, or stable?
If it is static or weakening, what can be done to bolster it?

G, Ambition.

1, Willing double agents are ambitious in the sense
of seeking immediate material rewards with little effort,
Few are content to work slowly and consistently toward
long-range goals. Gratification is non-deferable, They
seek the immediate effect or gain, by a display of skill
or cleverness, by demonstrating artistic or intellectual
attainments, or by such displays of generosity as buying
drinks for the nouse, But they lose interest when the easy
satisfaction has been achieved, The case officer = orking
with a willing DA on a long-range operation is usually well-
advised to stress immediate objectives - especially those
which permit the agent some ego-gratification - rather than
distant goals, in which the agent may not be interested,

2, Unwilling doubles are likely to be only moderately
ambitious. They are, however, far more content to move
slowly toward long-range goals. Their reluctance to serve
as double agents can sometimes be thawed if successful
DA performance over a lengthy period can be identified
with the attainment of such long-held, personal objectives
as security and status, The length of required service may
be less important to them than the fixing of a definite, agreed
date for concluding the operation.

H, Clandestinity.
1, In the typical willing DA, clandestinity is doing
what comes naturally, He is usually accustomed to concealing
~ 30- TERAELINN..

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

/

i
i
i
\



A se
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

facts from others ~ his wife, his creditors, the local
authorities, His scepticism about the motives of others,
which refiects his own exploitative motives toward others,
reinforces his :ecretiveness, He enjoys concealing or
withholding for its own sake, In the early stages of
handling a willing DA the case officer may be delighted
with his innate knack for the clandestine and the nimble-
ness of his wits. But there are two dangers,, One is that
the agent is prone to conceal things from his case officer
too, KUBARK's need to know-everything about him,con-
flicts directly with his desire not to place himself in the
power of another through divulging too'much, Persistent
case officer digging into his past, especially if performed
formally in-accordance with a PHS outline, may merely
arouse his.competitiveness, his desire to outwit, But. -
encouraging:him to reminisce; especially about episodes
that place him in a favorable light and let him brag a little; |
is likely to be rewarding. Anothe> danger is that the ? t
willing DA may resist or ignore training in operational : & ;
security, He is used to depending on his natural talents : H
to get him out of trouble, But he is intelligent enough to {
recognize that the adversary service is professionally |
r
1
|
|

clandestine and that. KUBARK security training is not a
denial of his aptitudes but a chance to expand them.’

“2s. The few unwilling DA's studied to date were found
to be less. clandestine than the average person, They need ~
careful, step-by-step training in security, If they are to
face a situation which they consider dangerous or even un-
usual, they want and need'a epecific prior briefing by the
case officer.

3, Whether the DA is willing or unwilling, the case
officer should determine the kind and amount of security
training needed and should supply it, being careful to tailor
the training to DA purposes and avoiding training the agent
for the adversary's purposes,

-31- Ro]

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY


S84 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

“IL Introversion - extroversion.

1, The willing DA is introverted in the sense that he
is much more preoccupied with himself than with the world
around him. But his actions resemble those of the extro-
vert. He is likely to be gregarious and to dislike solitude,
He prefers large social gatherings at which he can make a
bid for attention or admiration, Because the wide array of
contacts is sought for self-gratification, willing DA's are
not likely to form firm friendships, at least not friendships
involving a normal give-and-take, The aim is to exploit or
impress. It has been noted that some willing DA's strike
up conversations with total strangers solely to achieve a
striking effect,

2, The unwilling DA is Likely to be introverted.
is not typically gregarious, and his circle of friends may
be small, To those few friends, ae to his family, he is
likely to be loyal.

J. Other major traits.

The following additional traits of willing DA's have
appeared with sufficient frequency during the analysis of
past cases to merit their mention: sporadic heavy drinking
{but not alcoholism); failing to react visibly to harsh
reprimands or threats but nursing a consequent grudge in
secret; frequent demands for money (no case was found in
which a willing DA refused payment; almost all of them were
importunate in trying to get more); vanity and bd desire for
prestige; and sexual promiscuity.

K, Summary of analysis of traits.
1, The foregoing profile of willing double agents repre-
sents their psychological patterns as a group; the individual

DA will naturally have his own pattern of divergency from
these norms,

eee a aad
is KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

bad SECRET



ae SE het

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2. Effective management of the DA requires an early
determination of how much he wants (or does not want) to
play the part, Because willing and unwilling doubles show
different - and sometimes antithetical - characteristics,
the determination of willingness will help the case officer
to fit his treatment of the agent to the agent's personality,

3, The psychological profile of willing DA's as a
class or group is that of the con-man (or, in the psychiatrist's
terms, of the sociopath), The incidence of con-men is high
among willing double agents in time of peace, just as the
incidence of persons in rebeUion against any form of
authority is high among defectors, This fact is cause for
caution but not for apprehension, The case officer who
recognizes the dangers to himself and his service which
are likely to result from the very nature of the willing
double is better able to control them, And he is likely to
find that the agent's stabil-ty under stress, intelligence,
scepticism, and natural clandestinity are valuable assets
when channeled against the opponent.

Sets - 33-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

eect

pe anaes
?


Fa
fa

b>) SECRET

i! KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

IV, THE DA AS AN AGENT

A. Prior Intelligence Associations,

As was stated in Part I, Paragraph E 3, it is necessary
for planning purposes to obtain all the facts about all the
agent's intelligence experience before he became a double,
The extent of that experience is likely to be one of the basic
differences between the DA and the non-Cl agent. If the
double has not had prior contact with more than one service,
the operation itself will give him some insight into a second
service and thus permit him to compare and learn, The
result of this extent and breadth of experience (and in some
cases of considerable agent training] is that DA's are Likely
to be sophisticated in clandestine matters, As a result
the margin of superiority ususally enjoyed by the KUBARK
case officer, who ordinarily has had much more training
and experience than his agent, may diminish, vanish, or
even be reversed, For this reason KUBARK case officers
who have had little or no earlier experience in directing =
DA's should not be hesitant about secking help from others
at the base, from the station, and from headquarters,

B. Continuing Investigation,

As was noted earlier, background checks and the in-
spection of all overt records should precede the decision
to accept the case and the formulation of the operational
plan. During the operation these measures should be con-
tinued, to the extent consonant with security, (Continuing
checks do pose a graver security problem in some DA
cases than in many other types of Operations; at times the
task is impossible or the risk is unacceptable, But if the
DA lives outside a denied area, safe ways to continue inde=
pendent probing can usually be found.) Apart from the
danger of concluding that all the facts are in, that the

-sMe eaesiacy
4 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

GBB SECRET

erent
Rare on

-



record is complete, continued probing is required for
the duration of the operation,

C. Training. A
1, Adversary Training, :

Most of the agent training given by hostile services
aaa concerns tradecraft, and the emphasis is on communications.

2, KUBARK Training,

[e) KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY.

i
|
|
i
| seasons -35- weee0Rn. :



Be] a a

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY os,

c. If the agent has weaknesses as a double,
corrective training will be far more effective than merely
haranguing him,

D. Testing.

1, KUBARK Testing.

-36- see

, KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY QO

- semmnernes re ftcmenns


-37-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

agi



KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

= 38-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

a. Most of these methods entail a significant ex-
penditure of time and effort, This fact should be weighed
at the outset, before KUBARK is committed to the oper-
ation, and should also be reflected in the planning of the
operation, It is manifestly insecure to conduct a double
agent operation as a series of debriefings, in which the
case officer merely records the unchecked assertions of
the DA.

mechanism, but only if the adversary has been identified
correctly, If, for example, a double agent who is a citizen |
of a satellite state provides useful and valid information I
about one of the intelligence or security services of that
state - counterintelligence of such caliber that it seems
Pac obvious that the satellite, service would not willingly per. i
"mit its release - KUBARK may easily misread the DA's H
loyalties and assume that he is "ours" when in fact he is !
providing the information on orders of the KGB or GRU, : i
] probably without the knowledge of the satellite service, t

e. Analysis of substance is useful as a testing
!

{, The four key tests were described above (see
ID) as an aid to deciding whether or not to accept an
opportunity for a double agent: operation. “The case officer
should ask the same four questions periodically during the i
later phases of the operation because they constitute a
sound framework for testing.
?

2. Adversary Testing. ete

- 39-
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



b. Hostile services may test the agent and oper-
ation by testing the communications channel, See pp. 61-64,

-40- a)
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY»



E. Control : : :

1, KUBARK Control,

-41-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

RRR uanemsnnenene nie eo
G



. KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 42 -

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

RGR.



2, Adversary Control,

a, A major weakness of the Communist intelli . |
gence and security service is an inadequate understanding H
of the principle that control rests upon an understanding~ i
of the motives of individual agents. Consequently there « H

is an adversary tendency to. pay scant heed to the agent as we
a person and to consider hir:, instead, as an instrument.
In half the KUBARK DA cases studied to date, for example,
the DA has alleged that his work for the adversary was : :
totally or partially motivated by duress and. fear, No.other = j
element of motivation for.serving:the opposition is cited by -'
DA's as frequently,’ Even after allowance’is:made for * }
agent exaggeration, it remains evident that adversary ° a i
attempts to achieve control through duress may of them-
selves cause the agent to approach a Western service,
Continuation of hostile pressure on the agent is likely to
create in him attitudes which the KUBARK case officer
can exploit to our advantage,

b. A related weakness in adversary control stems
from overcentralization, The headquarters of a typical
Communist service exerts tight control upon its field repre-
sentatives, who often relay requirements to agents without
tempering them to achieve some correlation betw: head-
quarters! needs and the agent's access and capabilities,

= 43 - 2 @uilmiens
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY i



KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY .

Agents who have protested that assigned tasks were im-
possible have sometimes been told, in effect, that the
case officer recognizes the lack of realism but is help~
less, Such an explanation, and the attitude underlying it,
militate against effective control. ‘

¢. On the other hand, the adversary services,
and especially the KGB, have at times shown skill in the
manipulation of political motivation for purposes of control.

'F. Agent Motivation,

1; Analysis of double agent operations has indicated
that there is somewhat more uniformity in the motives of
double agents than case officers have recognized. Clearly,
the reasons why the agent works for KUBARK may not be
wholly identical with his’ reasons for serving the adversary.
For example, an agent recruited under duress by a Com-
™munist service may obey its orders chiefly through fear
and may serve ag a double chiefly because of hostility toward
the adversary, But if he is a fearful person, predisposed
to yield quickly under pressure, then fear of detection and
retribution in the Free World is.also likely to play a part
in his performance for us.

2, According to the statements of DA's and case:
officers, the following are the principal motives of DA's
for serving KUBARK (the percentages state the number
of agents reportedly thus motivated, in comparison with
the total number studied): monetary (77%), political (55%),
Pleasure in the clandestine (50%), personal (50%), self-
protection (41%), ideological (23%), fear (23%), and
Patriotism (9%), The statements of the same agents and
their case officers about their motives for serving the
opposition show a very different picture: fear (50%),
monetary (50%), pleasure in the clandestine (27%), self-
protection (27%), and personal (14%). No political, ideo-
logical, or patriotic motives for serving a Communist
service were reported in any of the DA cases studied,

-4- ‘FoRaemca_

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY.

Sus



ree

y

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY’

3, An element of rationalization seems to be reflected

in these findings. For example, an agent who finds very

real pleasure in clandestinity per se is likely to be thus

motivated in working for both sides, not just one. Yet te i
nearly twice as many agents were reported to serve KUBARK i

for this reason as were lieted under the same heading for

service to the adversary, It seems likely that KUBARK
case officers may consider it somewhat reassuring if an
agent works for us because he likes the. game but may find
it threatening if he conducts espionage on behalf of a hostile
‘service for the same reason,

4, During analysis. it was also noted that agents and
case officers had advanced nearly twice as many explana-
tions for KUBARK service’as for adversary service, In
a significant number of operations KUBARK case-officers: : 1
had made no report at all on the agent's reasons for working
for the opposition, ecettien,

5. Some precepts can be based on these findings:

a. KUBARK should.always examine and reporta
double agent's motives for engaging-in both halves*of his
clandestine work.

b. Most peacetime DA's serve both sides for much

" the same basic reasons,

¢. The examination of motivation should be ‘as
probing as the case-officer can make it, The use of a label,
such as "anti-Communist", is not a substitute for a
searching examination of what makes the agent tick.

d, The case officer who is working with a willing
DA should be slow to conclude that the agent's esteem for
the case officer plays an important motivational role.
Genuine esteem for others is not common among willing
DA's, although many are adept at creating an impression
of esteem, :

-45- aE
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

i.



eta f

BP SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

6. There has been relatively little KUBARK reporting
on unconscious motives. Although lengthy and theoretical
speculation on this subject may be a waste of time, the case
officer's continuing assessment of the DA as a person does

. permit him to compare.the agent's own statements about
his motives with his actions, which are sometimes clues
to‘deeper drives, of which the agent may be unaware or ot
only dimly aware,

7. If KUBARK has accepted jurisdiction of an oper-
ation from a transferring service, that service's recorded
or verbal estimate of motivation should be obtained in as
much depth as possible and should be weighed carefully.
Failing to benefit from earlier insights ‘often leads to a
repetition of errors in ‘handling and control that were made
by the transferring service. .

8, The case officer should determine whether «ny of te
the agent's basic motives are incompatible with KUBARK's E
goals in the operation, He should also consider whether =
the DA is looking to KUBARK for satisfaction of a desire :
: which KUBARK cannot or will not satisfy. i i

O

- 46 - -Aagpebaateago

nae .KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



omar

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Vv. THE DA OPERATION: SPECIFICS
SPECS.

A, Access,

ea AT eo

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

f



7
a SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 48 -

H :
| ; KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
{

am


KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

49 -
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

i
'
}
i



2, ToAdversary Targets.

a. In the DA cases analyzed to date each agent has
had believable.access, from the viewpoint of the adversary,
to the opposition's targets, ‘This fact, however, seems to
reflect less a careful program of recruitment than the wide at
range of hostile gor\s listed in Part Il, above

b, The list makes it clear that many of these goals ds” i
are counter-intelligence objectives; ‘penetration of'Free i a
World intelligence and-security services, obtaining infor- : -
mation on.AIS sponsorship and.use of various -groups.(RFE,"* : I,
VOA, refugee organizations,: etc.), securing information'.-°* pavieces] i a
on the emigration abroad, checking on the fate and location

of intelligence defectors:from the adversary service, and i
the like, The DA's contact with KUBARK obviously means :
that he has some access to one or more of these Cl targets.

Sometimes KUBARK case:officers have tended to dismiss ste
this fact lightly by remarking, "All he knows is my face and oir eee
a cover. name." As the later discussion of KUBARK security ae i
in DA cases.makes clear, this observation simply does not

hold for the great majority of these. operations, Because H
KUBARK normally cannot control the kind and amount of ‘ae
intelligence and counterintelligence passed to the hostile
service by the double agent, his access to a principal target '
of adversary Cl makes it mandatory that KUBARK handle
the operation, to the extent practicable, as though the DA

- 50 - BREA
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY , ;



3)

nner SNS P SSE cat Heat renin er men

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

te: e sition everything he learns. Hence the

c, Adversary services test the agent's access to H
their targets in a number of ways, The agent is usually ;
asked to explain in detail how he acquired each significant
item of information and to identify all sub-sourcés, witting
or not, as fully as possible. . In the early phase of the oper-
ation he may be given targets about which the opposition
already knows a good deal, fu that substance can be tested
analytically, Other adversary-agents may be assigned to
report on him, and various other techniques of surveillance
may be employed. Such adversary testing underscores the
superiority of true access, which permits the agent to.
function normally, over hand-outs.

B. Appetite,

1, As was stated earlier, it is useful to determine
the opposition's appetite, as well as' goals, as soon.as:
available information permits.:. Examination of the record:
has shown that the chances of obtaining a:net profit from
a DA operation are considerably enhanced if the case officer
continuously assesses the nature and intensity of the
adversary's appetite, If he has a strong desire to get what
the agent's access promises to make available, ‘the adversary
may be-inclined toward greater patience with error or delay,
is likelier to plan the operation as long-range, and is more
prone to expose additional assets, for such purposes as ~
training. Here.is another exploitable weakness of an over-
centralized intelligence service, An inferior report on a
subject of currently intense interest to the headquarters
may enhance the agentis standing more than a sound report
on a matter given a low headquarters priority,

-51- | SER.
KUBARK INTERNAL USE.ONLY ,

SF se



SECRET

/ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

] =

2, One indicator of hostile appetite is the sudden
levying of a requirement on a target to which the agent
has no real access. Agents who have protested such
assignments have sometimes been told frankly that head-
quarters pressure had obliged the field unit to give the
task to several agents without regard for access. If the
new target is significant, and especially if widespread
allocation of the target is confirmed by other DA's or
other means, it is advisable to notify headquarters
expeditiously.

3. As was said earlier, a notional access may awaken
an ungovernable appetite, The same is true for real access,
and for this reason the KUBARK case officer should attempt
to foresee those topics or areas too sensitive for release to
the opposition and block off the agent's access to them with=
out his knowledge, Otherwise, as has happened, the case
officer reviewing for release a sensitive report already
prepared by the DA may find himself constrained to forbid
its transmission, Asa rule, he «- ot be sure that the
double agent will respect the prohitilion, And there is the og
added danger that the adversary service will gain new in-
sights upon learning which items were cleared for passage
and which were blocked, Keeping abreast of shifts in
hostile appetite will help the case officer to anticipate and
avoid these risks,

Cc. Production.

1, For KUBARK.

- 526 Reuse
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

= SEGRET

ne

glcsescersaeeeteens oe y patent

yy



+ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
)
- 53 - ssgapceéshe
| .) KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

nee ie SN OF De NSA NATE Sia ooeeteete Sina me ne

eee seer



A case officer review of this list before the meeting
or its use as a check-list during the meeting may prove
helpful, Analysis of production in former DA operations
has shown that the number of the above topics on which each
double agent reported ranged from 5 to 18, with an average
of 10, Although this-range. is obviously dependent upon the
DA's access and the life-span of the operation, it also
depends upon the thoroughness of the case officer. Failure
to debrief a knowledgeable DA on predecessor services or
any other item listed above nullifies a principal purpose of
the operation,

2, For the adversary.

a. As noted above, KUBARK must keep careful

~ 546

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

records of all classified information released to the DA,

In addition, it is suggested that the case officer keep a log
on all of the DA's reports to the adversary, whether classi-
fied information is included or not. If the DA reports to
the adversary in writing, the case officer should take at

Sere

i
i
+
l
i



"eam dena

omen

oO

= we

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

least two copies of each report before approving it for
release, one to be forwarded to headquarters and the other
to be retained, If the DA reports verbally, the KUBARK
case officer may, require him to submit a.written version;
or the case officer may elect to write a full account. What-
ever methods are used, it is important to keep close tabs
on the agent's reporting to the adversary. Such a record
may make it easier to detect a DA's transmittal of un-
authorized information, It will certainly facilitate a com-
parison of hostile requirements and the DA's production

for the adversary and thus make it easier for the case
officer to put himself in the place of his opposite number --
that is, to mirror-read the operation, And finally, in the
broadest sense, KUBARK's effective conduct of counter-
intelligence {including deception) requires that headquarters
maintain a current and complete record of all information
known to have reached adversary hands.

b, Despite the general principle that it is almost
always better to require that the DA obtain on his own the
information which he reports to the hostile service, some
cases necessitate the release of build-up material, The:
twin problems of acquiring such material and obtaining 7
clearances for:its' use are easier to-solve.if the operation.
has been developed.according to a plan carefully designed: .
to.satisfy specific counterintelligence requirements, The
ODYOK=E' military services, for example, will consent to
release much more readily if the potential gain to national
security is demonstrable,

D,. Mirror-Reading.
1, Throughout the life of the operation the case officer

should consider each development not only from his own
Point of view but also from that of his adversary. Only in

-55- RNS
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



BGR SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

this way can he estimate whether the operation looks
normal to the opposition, whether
satisfactory progress, and what

2 agent is making
nthe hostile service
tures,

is likely to undertake at critical }

2. Mirror-reading is not merely a process of putt
oneself in the other ma a process of beine
» and then view,

z

onist, a

peration,

refore the case ofiicer needs to know
personally, the

his headquarters -

uch as he can about the antave

on and base in whi
entire
typical custos

rds to}

ervice,

ow some-
» and feelings of the

represents, Otherwis

nsplanted America
dis-
om ‘identifying the

his mirror-reading out of focus

same distortion results

torted
torted,

adversary service incorrect

3, For tho kind of

nformation that allows the case
accurately he is partly dependent
on the agent. He needs to draw from the agent all the
details and nuances of the DA's meetings with the adver-
sary, so that he can sense the character of the opposing
case officer and the flavor of his reiationsnip with the agent
In doing so, the KUBARK case officer must rectify dis-
tortions produced by the agent's personality. The obser-
vation that the hostile case officer is rutal and.overbeariza,
for +

offi

F to rm: read

be read one wa

if made by a normally
confident man, another way if expressed by a fearful persen

+ A knowledge of the service 2s a whole and of its
headquarters is particularly importast for sound handling
of DA operations run against Communist services because
of their characteristic centralization, The operation will
be misread if the KUBARK case officer attributes to his
opposite number decisions actually made at a headquarters
far away.

- 56 - Tenmes

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

“QR SECRET


/
7
65" SECRET
~ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY /
E, KUBARK Security,
i
i -57- wigan
|
fo) KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
i BOP SECRET

/

/

rosters

—w


G2? SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ~

4. As was noted in Part Il, cover must be established
for KUBARK, the case officer, the DA, and agent meetings,

= 58 - ‘pescensaber

H KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY NA

WSR SECRET

saenenne, TAS ane


. Fa

‘BRP SECRET

v4
~ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY 7

c. The double agent's cover for clandestine work
for the adversary is a problem for the adversary, not
KUBARK, to resolve, But the KUBARK case officer must
consider the agent's cover as a double, In practise DA
cover is nearly identical with cover for DA meetings, As
a rule such cover does not consist of a valid reason for
overt association, as it may in a positive operation, because
it is necessary to conceal from the opposing service all
indications of AIS association (except under such specialized
circumstances as deception operations). The problem is
more one of concealment than of cover, Selection of a
proper mecting site or sites and training the DA in sound t
security practises are the best defenses, Once the adver-
sary service learns that the DA is in touch with the AiS or
even.with an American, the operation may become worse
than valueless. :

5. Like other agents, DA's -- and especially willing
doubles -- sometimes tell wives, mistresses, and others
about their clandestine activities for either side or both,
despite all admonitions to the contrary. DA's have been
knwon to exaggerate their roles, in order to impress, and
to confide that they are chiefs of services, undercover
staff members, and the like. Discovering such indiscre-
tions, some KUBARK case officers have merely repri-
manded the agent and continued the operation as before
leaving the confidant half-in and half-out of the case.

woot - 59 - pewmersero

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



‘SBR SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ~

6. A security check-list is included in Part VII of
~ this guide.

i
t
iy
t
H
i

F, Adversary Security,

1, As was mentioned earlier, the fundamental principle
regarding adversary security is that the KUBARK case
officer should not interfere, Adversary services have been
guilty of some elementary breaches: meeting agents in
their homes, exposing the clandestine status of agents to i
families and friends, failing to provide or even consider :
agent cover for trips, using ill-chosen or untrained couriers,
requiring travel too frequently, and other sins, Fearing
that such practises «ill expose the operation to local
security forces, the KUBARK case officer may be tempted
to tighten up his opponent's operation, But intervention + :
by KUBARK is likely not to save the operation but to blow i
it, to local security, the adversary, or both, Our restraint
may permit flaps or near-flaps, from the adversary's view- i
point; but experience has shown that unless a flap indicates
that his agent has been doubled, the adversary is not
likely to terminate. On the other hand, flaps do tend to
cause the opposing service to view the agent and oper- H
ation with increased scepticism and may produce periods
of inactivity which are profitless for KUBARK. If the
agent is somewhat sophisticated and aggressive, and if i
his relationship with the hostile case officer permits, he |
may be told to complain about sloppy handling, In any |

' event, the underlying principle remains the same: the i
: adversary's problems are his, not ours, If rapport is
good, the DA tends to present his KUBARK case officer i
with difficulties created for the agent by the opposing

service, And naturally, the case officer must not refer

- 60 - aoe,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY or)

fee tn tee as



1
{
i

Te ee neat western SI

greene

~ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

the double agent to the adversary so coldly that the DA
feels rebuffed, Sympathy and perhaps non-discernible
material assistance a-e in order, along with an explan-
ation of why our direct intervention would imperil the
agent.

G. Communications,

1, Adversary Communications.”

-61- eenears.

i) KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

i

aS aa ano anna areca nee Eee


ie
WR SECRET

y

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

= 62 -

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY


KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

7

int
'
'

2, KUBARK Communications,

a. In the unilateral, post-war, KUBARK DA cases
studied to date, direct meetings between case officer and
agent have been by far the commonest method of communication.

i
|

~ 63 - RRO
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ve

3 a
i ‘$857 SECRET

snes

ellen eoorene



H
i

‘W9 SECRET

BF SECRET

/

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Although personal contact is slightly more risky than
other methods because it increases the damage that can

be done by a DA who is giving te edge to the opposition,
its advantages are notable. The possibilities for adver-
sary counterintelligence manipulation of the operation

are increased if KUBARK maintains communication solely
by an impersonal means. KUBARK's opportunities for
testing the case are largely restricted to testing its
product, For this reason it is especially important in
W/T, S/W, and similar operations to remember that more
than one adversary service may be involved or that the
opposition may aot be the service that the circumstances
seem to indicate, Even if the adversary is identified
accurately, KUBARK's inability to assess psychologically,
employ LCFLUTTER, interrogate, or otherwise probe
directly greatly increases the risk of being deceived,

b. Personal meetings are sometimes supplemented
by additional forms of communication, chiefly the tele-
phone, open code mail, and S/W. A fast emergency
channel is essential in most DA operations because the
initiative rests with the adversary, who may require the
agent to act quickly. If forced to act on his own, because
he cannot reach the KUBARK case officer, the DA may
wreck the operation,

c. Details of KUBARK's communication channels
with the DA, like other details of our modus operandi,
should be included in the reporting to headquarters. A
primary reason is that such reporting enables headquarters
to study the effectiveness of our methods and to make the
results of such study available to others who can use them.

H. Finances.
1, The key principle in paying DA's is that the
money should be used by the case officer as one of his
- 64- eee

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

pion iepentesna-astassaqs$j pusmapissassmianis assi¢=—H000007assea0sssneu"VGas pac!


EB SECRET
(
~ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY va
instruments of manipulation and control.
- 65 - eoresrcem,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

|
|
|



vette if

a secret

21

A KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

4, Hostile services have more frequently made pay-
ments to relatives on behalf of the agent than has KUBARK.
The operational value of such payments depends chiefly on
how the DA feels about the recipient, He may be grateful,

- 66~ RESIS

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

i
SER SECRET

|
|



ha

,

(ERE SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY +

2

or he may be uninterested in the recipient's welfare and
inclined to view such payments as involuntary deductions
from his own salary. i

5, If the opposition directs the DA to take a trip or
otherwise incur expenses for which he lacks funds, the
KUBARK case officer should be hesitant about supplying
the money, The adversary may be testing. Usually the
DA should respond by explaining his problem to the
opposing service,

I,__Reporting.

- 67 - Taaaaeae-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

{BES cena ne

Zz
Ses SECRET

cpr aenente as ae



(GBP SECRET

a KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY a
'
i
!
i
i
;
on
;
I
i
i {
|
i '
:
i
: - 68 - seyere
i KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY @
:
: TSP ee!
i
i if
bs ape



ae KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ra

°

\
i - 69 - waxbRHaeO
| KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY : :
bes
iO
>
: ‘2h SECRET
ere TEE FR ayia ek moet em me ee mes toe ae iA

{
j

{


SEE. SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

VI, CASE OFFICER'S CHECK LIST

The questions that follow are intended as a check list
to be used by KUBARK case officers to ensure that none
of the essentials of a double agent operation have been
overlooked,

- 70-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

9 SECRET
eee PF anneaceaneninaseeaseey Se ee a a He Hee bie

Z

'
|
i

wanted


KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-n- figs.
ho 2

{ ao * KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

i



fom Mie
ras

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY:
” , :
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

epeceseeas nesses ateastcassessersssressesanntancassnusssasecd x

emeid



) i
i
. \-
i
iH
i
Y
?
4
fh \
|

pense dada a

L >) - KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

ost epee esieesgnentanaess

po



KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY.

-h-

“KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY,
- WH. i
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



{
|
i
\
|
|
{
}

GRE SECRET
i

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-16-
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
8B SECRET
PS Ee Eee ve SL Ee LLL LEE

Soe wa


O

“ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-W7-
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



| KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
= Bs

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY -



SRR Sooners enema

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-19-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY



i
i |

| i

1 7
}

= 80- TEED
KUBARK. INTERNAL USE ONLY



_ .KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY.

- Ble

“2” “KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

rm



KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
amenencasnrcas st porgianmiang nnn



O

r
@28 SECRET
f
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ri
INDEX
acl
. weer eee ceeeeeeenscees 19-20, 39-40, :
47-51
Alcoholism , cece teen e eter ereeerene 32
Ambition .cscceccccescsvene 30
Analysis of agent production by hostile service . 40
Analysis of agent production by KUBARK ....... 39, 47-48
Appetite, hoetile ......... «. 13, 19-20,
51-52
ALTEBES oe cececcccccascee 24
Assessment, psychological ..........cseeee0+ 25-34, 68,
A
Attachments to other persons, emotional ... oe 27-28
Attitude of DA toward case officer ............ 27
Audiosurveillance ...... oe 63
Background of DA .........seeeceecccceeseees T1H72
Bona fides, preliminary testing of .......eeee. 23-24
Build-up material ........ + 40, 48, 55
Cables Otte eee cereneeseeseeneesesesssssess 68
- 83 - wares
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
WP SECRET

a

Basi nnpsn bag enH ar HHnGE CBN PHEmSRHMVenRSOMBELEZET’

as

passesten’ War aa


HE29 SECRET

oe

CR
Ta SECRET

/
7 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Case load.

Case officer's check list .ceccoeerossesercrees

Gentralization in adversary services .

Clandestinity in DA's ..

Communications, KUBARK ..secessereerereore
Communications, opposition .eesseseeeeeereeee

Contact reporting

Continuous investigation of DA's ....sseseeeeee

Control, by adver sary sescesseeseeesere

Control, by KUBARK ..sesevcecserceres

Cover .cccccoccrseccceccccccosounrcsees

D and D cases .rccssecureereensseeces

Dead drops ssseeseeee

Deception ..csecesccsecccecnecenrerceceerers

Disposal ..ssseeescseercnceceesceree

Document analysis ..

- 84-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

norte ek Lents,

Page

21, 39
70-82
43-44
30-31

63-64

U-12, 61-63

67, 68
34-35

19, 41,
43-44

19, 41-43,
65, 75-76

58-59, 66,

78

4

63

7
21-22

M4, 23

suas susssesetes ener ge sssnsnssnststansonteven 20st

i
j
‘
i
:



KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

a
2D SECRET
/

Page
Devzble agent, definition of ......ssscccccccesvee 2
DUFESS .eescevecesscecccsccceucnce seccoeee 43
Exposure of KUBARK personnel and assets
toDA's..... 35
Extroversion .,esssscseceeecceceseseeresencess 32
Fabricators ..secssecsceescccsseccecesceesses 2
Finances ..seeeeesseeee sees 64-67,
80-81
Four key tests ...sscccccccesseeseccecssevcees +12, 39
Goals in DA operations, KUBARK and
adversary . 6-10, 13,
50
Gullibility-scepticism ....... 29
Identity of DA, establishment of ......esses000 13-14
Intelligence background of DA'S .,.eseeeeeeeee- 15-17, 34
Intelligence of DA's .., Polsiste - 28
Interference .ssseeseececcsescescescesonsoress 50, 58, 60
Introversion ...scscececesssovsescorcreceseses 32
Joint DA operations , acces 17, 22,
72-74
-85- Pana

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

é

‘E29 SECRE

f



7

/

2) SECRET

i KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ~
Page |
i.
Knowledge by outsiders ..eccecsceeccenseeses 14-15, 59-60, {
67 i
i
LGFLUTTER ....cccccecccccccccsescsscsses 23, 36-37, i
61, 74 \
Mirror-reading ....sccecessceeesceneecersee 30, 55-56 :
Money ... - . seseeeess See Finances :
i
Monitoring of adversary commo channels.... 42, 61 ;
Motivation, conscious and unconscious........ 44-46
Motivation for serving KUBARK .....cssesee5 44-46
Motivation for serving the opposition ......... 44-45 i
Multiple agents ....sscccsceesccessoscssscees 2 ‘
Objectives of adversary in DA operations ...... see Goals Pe
Objectives of KUBARK in DA operations ....... see Goals i
Origins of DA operations, significance of ...... 3-6 |

Overt information on DA's, sources of .. 13-14 1

: OWVL .ocsccececseeseccecssececensecsesecee 12, 61 i
1 Parallel DA operations ...ceecescccvscccecces 7
acces see Finances

Pay eeeee

\
|
i
‘ Peddlers ..csesesscscecscececcecencsessenes 2 i
1

~ 86 - ‘Ermita.
| KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY ) :
i .
| i H
| PGB SECRET

+



Fs)

vh
<P aia
fy KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page

Penetration agents ...sscoececcossscccccescves 2
Planning the DA operation .eseecesesoesecesees 13-22

Positive production from DA operations . oor 7,8

Prior intelligence ties of DA'S .....sceeeeseees 15-17
Prior record of CaS€ ceeecesseccssccceccceencs 3, 46

Production for adversary seeseseesseeeseescens 54-55

Production for KUBARK wesesescesecesecesesee 52-54
Prosecution 0f DA'S .cccecssccececcccvesescase 22

Provocation « «4-5

Psychological assessment .esseeesessssereuere See Assessment,
' psychological

Recruitment by adversary seeeseseeesereseeces  S-l7

Recruitment by KUBARK of adversary staff
personnel... 6

Reporting the DA operation ......ceeeeeeereeces 67-69, 81

Reporting of DA's on hostile services . wee 52454

Scepticism in willing DA's ......seeeeeseeeeee 29

Security of the DA ..cceccceccescececceseeeees 59

- 87 - ‘vGuwsege-

se Mie

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
va

y
Ges SECRET
7

due ene cE Lt peso een tere a anne nn

ante!

i
5
I
}



oat

E238 SECRET

{ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Security of KUBARK in DA operations .....se+06

Security of opposition in DA operations .......+6
Selection of DA's w.essecevecenececeenreessens
Side-coMmMo sasserescesecsccccccssensenacscs

Spoon-feeding DA'S ...sseeeeee

Stability ...cssccceccreccecceeceeseeeneesseee
Stayability ..csscccessceseceeeseesereneeseeee

Sub-sources, identification to adversary 1...

Support of DA operations ..eesecesesecereereee
Surveillance of DA operations ...sessseeereeeoe

s/w.

Talk-ind cccccsccerccoscccccreccscecrenceces

Taps, mail and phone ....sceceeuseseceeeeeees

Targets ..se6e

Terminal report ....scececececceeseeenenceee

Termination .ccscsecscncercccccccercrescsces

Testing by adversary ....cceeeeeseeeesceeeces

57-60,
79-80

60-61
1o-u
38, 61
40, 49

26-27

39

a oe
38

61-62

3-4

22, 63

see Access

68

20, 21-22,
49, 81-82

39-40, 62

- 88 - Be)

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

$B SECRET
: pane

i
|
t

;
t
{
H



1
apremeertsemnemeteret

ED- SECRET

=) KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

i

E

Testing by KUBARK ,

Pee ee eeeeeeeeeesae 10-12, 36-39

Third services ..........05 seceee 72-73

Threats TTR P ORR eee eee eee wecasnceeceeeens 32

TEACHING so seeeeeeseeeeeeeceeceeeseerecseens Mel5

Training by adversary .,., 35

Training by KUBARK ...cceecceeceeeense 18, 31,
35-36

Transfer to KUBARK from another service ..,, 3, 46

Trust of DA by opposition ........ec.ccceceee5 20

sis | Trustworthiness of DA's ..,

teseceeee 29

Types of DA cases, by origin ........ceccsece- see Origin
Unconscious motives ...escsecescecscenressee 46

Unwilling DA's 0.04, tees 25-26

UL S, Citizens as DA's tee eee erececcccceeeees 12-13

Verbal skills in willing DA's... 28

3-4

SOP eee e een e ns eeneeccceses 25826

~ 89 - WRaisttot,,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

TEL mse Ss mene

Ef

me eee


ee

~~ e

(ER SECRET
L

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Withholding .sesceveseecccceccerrcrece os 2, 36

W/T .cccceccrcccccsseccccosccvccrsoresecses 8, 12, 37,

- 90 - een

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

tena name cat caress Wk Hi eee

ic)

i
L

