104-10782-024)

CHEE 9 September 1959 RETURN TO Sia :
: Background Use Only

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD. aces Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECT: Mitchell L. WER BELL

tie 4 ¢, t+ Sablect phoned ne at 1630 hours, 12 august froa Powder
Springs, Georgia. He provided the following informations

&. There definitely vas a lanting in the Isle of Pines
+ this later proved incorrect.)

-——by-—The Venemuelan goverment, through its Consul General» ~
in Mfaai, is fostering the Doxinican underground nove-
gents 4 Venezuelan wonan, who 4s her country's Consul
Geteval in Cubs, visited the U.S. last week to try to

: . - buy equiprent ‘for an ant{-TAIJILLO movement. Subject

a clained he wes asked by RIZO (alias Bob SCOTTO to work
to try to get the Venezuelan and Dominican govermente
together so that the latter can be lulled into a sense
of security and then attacked. "RIZO 13 hanging around
the Venezuelan Consul General in Miami. :

¢. SILVA (MANSPERRER's assistant), PEDRAZA, and MANSFERRER
, are air dropping materiai into Cuba and’ the Isle of Pines.

. .

a. SILVA susgested WER BELL return to the DR. Subject
Nante? us to pick up bis expenses for the lip - since
he Eas no reason to go at his oun expense.

¢- He has beard that DE MOYA in back in the U.S. visiting
Washington and Subject wants to see hin,

f. Subject planned to return to Miami in 2 or 3 days.
oz, 7 told Subject his clearance has not yet been processed

and that I did not vent to influence him in any way concerning his
actions since I hava no vay of knowing when a clearance wil

granted.
Distribution:
2 = 49 Chroa
2 ~ WER BELL file 2o~ :
= Ss Gz iets
EO
“

Tad
