# 104-10216-10029

## Page 1

104-10216-10029

INFORMATION REPORTICINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

him meierial containa slorsation allecting the National Dulense of the United States within the menning of the Espionage Laws, Tast

18, U.5.6

Sees. 791 and 758, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner lo an unnthered person in probabled by law

NO FOREIG: DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSES/

NO DISSES! ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

PAGE 1OF I PAGES

T119 6S AN INPORMATION REPORT, PRIFINA

EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPORT NO.

CS DB-312/01409-68

DATE DISTR.

28 June 1968

COUNTRY Cuba

DO!

Late April 1968

SUBJECT

Prison Break at El Principe Prison

in Havana

. Canada, Ottawa (25 June 1968)

SOURCE An official

FIELD NO.

service: from Officials in Havana.

1.

there was a successful prison

break at the El Principe Prison in Havana.'

A group of

prisoners escaped by digging a tunnel to the courtyard of

a neighboring hospital.

After the escape, ex-slajor

Rolando Cubela Secades, who was convicted in March

1966

From To Principles a prase in or Cente Provineranstersed

2.

It was rumored

25.072d that Huber statos, imprisoned

since

October 1959, was one of the escapees.

However, according

to the wife of a prisoner in La Cabana Prison in Havana,

Matos and 20 other political prisoners were still in Gal

lery 23 of that prison.

Although none of them wore prison

uniforms, it is said that the authorities stopped being.

severe with them on this count.

3. Field Dissem: None.

SEC-R-E-T

STATE

DCS

(classification)

DIA

ARMY

2

NO

FOREIGN DISSEMI/CONTROLLED DISSEM/

NO

• DISSEY ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

(dissen controls)

MANY

NSA

XXX

CA$

201-252234

(For Field Distribution sno final paragraphi)

LNFORMATION REPORT

LINFORMATION REPORT

WHC/RR

WHC/OPS

THE SAO

WHC/JUCOBRA

WHC/EW

WHC/PP

CI/OPS/WH2

WHC/WAVEN

TOTAL$

IE 2

C1 4

FI

WH/C 9 (2),

EUR 2

(2)

08S015r. CAVIOuS

LELIB/R

E/MADR

ELOTTE!

OTTAWA-5480

(IN-37968)

NP (SMACT-1)

EУС7С7

CA

DO 1,

LIAISON

14 *

RRH

(20)

---

