# 104-10048-10217

## Page 1

T104-10048-102171

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

" ORIG:

UNIT :

EXT :

DATE:

JpaP

ROUTING

TEW/CI

5874

23 JULY 62

1648

TO .

FROM,

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DEPARTHENT OF STATE (SECURITY)

JUDONY CHITRAL INTELLIGEICE AGAICY

JUL 23

2116Z 62

CONF:

TFW 10

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO :

C1,. ClOPS, S/C 2, DDP

OUT 57734

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

SUBJECT: FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, ALSO AYONN AS TRANS BIORIL

1. RETIRICE IS MADE TO THIS AGENCY'S TELSTYPE MESSAGE,

OUT 104, 55026, DATSD 16 JULY 1962, SUBJECT AS ABOVE. REYERENCE

REPORTED 4

*, ACCORDING TO A FAIRLY RELIAELS SOURCE;

THAT SUBNET

TEO HAS BEBH INVOLVED• IN PREVIOUS LEAFLET OPERATIONS AGAINST

CUBA, HAS SCSDULED HIS NEXT OVERILIGHT FOR 26 JULY 1962.

2.

THIS SAME SOURCE HAS REPORTED ADDITIONAL INFORNATION AS

•FOLLONS ON SUBJECT'S RECKHT ACTIVITIES:

CARDE!

A. ON 31 JUNE 1962. SUBJECT DELIVERED TO PEDRO DIAZ

LANZ AN UNKNON QUANTITY OF WEAPONS INCLUDING 57 MI RE

COILLESS RIFLES, SEVERAL AUTOMATIC BAFONS, AND A COM

SIDERABLE ANOUNT OF AMMUNITION. SUBJECT PROCURED THESI

WEAPONS IN UPPER NEW YORK STATE IN EARLY JUMS 1962. I

THIS RESPECT DIAZ. LANZ HAS TIS BACKING OF SIXTY FIGHT

LAWYERS IN TAPA, FLORIDA, WHO GUARANTEE DIAZ LANZ $1,800

A MONTH IN ADDITION TO STIPENDS FROM NET YORK AND PUKETO

RICO. ALSO A GROUP OF VENEZUELANS RSCENTLY TALKED WITH

(CONTINUKD)

RELEASING

OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHEMPICATIMO

"Copy No

02293

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ORIC 371

INIT

BATE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

• 5-42

ROUTING

¡ROME. DIRECTOR

PAGE. TO

NiFO &

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OuT 57734

INFO

CITE DIR

SUBJECT AND DIAZ LANZ ABOUT PROVIDING A CONSIDERABLE SUI

FOR NAVAL ACTION AGAINST CUBA. I

B. THE BERRY ISLANDS INSTEAD OF BOMAN KEY WIIL BE UNRI

AS AN OPERATIQNAL BASE FOR THE 26 JULY 1962 OVERFLIGIT•

WITH RESPECT TO BOMAN KEX, A BRITISH INVESTIGATION IN

DECKIBER 1961 REVEALED THAT SIGHT BUNDESS OF PROPAGAIDA

HAD BEXU LETT ON ROHAN KRY WITH AL (LAST HANS WiNTOWN) WHO

RUNS THR KEY YOR BRITISH OWNERS WHOSE NANT MAY BR BETHEL

THE BRITISE INVESTIGATION. WAS HADE IN CONNECTION WITH THE

DETENTION IN FARLY DECRUBER 1961 OF SUBJECT AND ALEXANDER I.

HOKKE UN ZIEL ALIVAL I HASAU. FIRSE TIO HAD TRAVEL

TO NASSAU TO PROVIDE BAIL FOR ROBERT SWANNER OF MISSISSIPPI

WHO HAD BITN ARRESTED A FET DAYS BEFORE FOR LANDING AT

NASSAU IN AN AIRCRAFT RENTED POR MIAMI LOCAL FLIGHTS ONLY.

SWANNER HAS PILOTING THIS AIRCRAFT IN CONNECTION WITH A

SCHEDULET O DECKIBER 1961 OVERFLIGET WHICH ABORTED DUE TO

HIS ARBEST.

(CONTINUED)

COORDIMATINB OFPICLA

SACE-ET

REPRODUCTION: BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy

---

## Page 3

13-00000

ORG.

EXT

DATE :

TO

FROMi

CONF

TINFO .

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

5-d2

ROUTING

DIRECTOR

DEFERRED

PION TIREZ

ROUTINE

0uT 5 7734

INFO

CITE DIR

WITH RESPECT TO TAX 26 JULY 1962 OVERTIGIT,

SUEJICT AND DIAZ LANZ ARE BEING FIXANCIALLY BACKED IT A

GROUP OF HORTE AMERICANS. ALSO, SUBJACT RECENTLY LANDET

AN FUSTEN MAN 1

NFILTRATION TRAN IN HORTH ORIENTS TIA BANTA

DOMINGO. KEY •

D. ON 14 JULY 1962 A MAN IONI AB QUINTO, WHO IB

MARSART CONSCRED VITE ANAL, BANCEZ POSQUELS, MAT

SUBJECT Il NIANI, FLORIDA, AND OSTERED SUBJSCT $3, 500 PLUS

OPERATIONAL, SUPINSES FOR À BOMBING RAID ON HAVANA TO IIIa

CASTEO. QUINTO STIPULATID THY FLIGHT SHOULD HOT ORIGINATI

XX TES UNITED STATES AND TIRRITORE II HAD À MAN LOOKING

INTO NICARAGUAN AND GUATTUALA POSSIBILITES. SUBJECT RI

FUSID THIS OITXE RECAUSE HE DOES NOT TISH TO WORK WITE TET

ROLANDO MASPERRER CROID WITH TEON QUEITO AND SANCHET

MOSQUERA ARE APPARENTIY CONNECTED.

B. SUBJECT WAS CHARGED WITE MAKING ARRANGENENTE FOR

AN OPERATIONAL, BASE IN TEBRUARY 1962 IN CONMECTION VITE

A BONBING TLIGAT PLAS O7 SERGIO SOJAS. AT THAT TINT ROJAS

CONTINUED

COORDINATING

GROUI

RALEASING OFFICIE

SECULT

A. 13818

CATIN®

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Capy Na

---

## Page 4

13-00000

URT.

EXT

DATE 9.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONFR

INFO: "

TO

PAGE YOUR

INFO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

00т: 5 7734

CITE DIR

WAS INITIATIN FLATS TO BOB THE TATIA FICTIC HITT

VITA LANS N. LEICH, MO, OF ONTARIO, CALLIORITA, DA L

AMARILLO, TITAS. LIACH HAS TO RICHIVE $200 FL WEEK FON

PREPARATIONE, ,500 FCE FI RAID, AID $10,000 FOR HYS

WIFE IN CASE OF HIS DRATI.

RES. ALL ON TIL PRIOR PETIOND IN PER RIPORT THE

EXCRUTION O7 QUINTO AND LETIS X. URACH, JR. NAVI BAXT YE

THIS AGENCY, ANY ADDITICNAL PARTINIT INFUXNATION DEVELOPED

O QUITTO ANO LACH WILL BE PROSPIE PORTARDED.

4. THE ABOYS XAPORUATION IS BEIRO MADE AVAILABLE TO DIE

95O BASED ONS RATE 381 COR 91097) -129 Jely 1982

CAN/T CR

ма они 34:

ING. OFFICI

REALT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED:-

сем.

LITAN IE TAR

C/Tr

---

