2039.55
TUBE cu6

THIS REQUEST REFERS TO
(Doe. Ref.)

REQUESTER

1P/RMS

RETURN TO CIA
. Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

“VANDERBILT |

SPELLING VARFATIONS=RO=EE SEARCHED 201 NO. IF KNOWN ~*~
201-

AKA, ALIASES OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, CP membership, I. S.
affiliations, etc.)

PLACE OF BIRTH

RESULTS OF IP/ INDEX SEARCH INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

NO RECORDS IDENTIFIABLE WITH SUBJECT THERE ARE OTHER INDICES THAT YOU SHOULD CONSIDER.
SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES AND
201 CONSOLIDATION INSTRUCTIONS.

TO ORDER DOCUMENTS

SURNAME NOT FOUND IN FILES

INDEX RECORDS ATTACHED + REVIEW INDEX RECORDS.
+ DRAW GREEN DIAGONAL LINE ACROSS ITEMS YOU 00

ARE «RECORDS OF WHICH NOT WANT.
ARE _FNU'S WHICH MAY PERTAIN TO THE SUBJECT OF + FORWARD TO IP/FILES.

THIS SEARCH; THESE MAY BE REVIEWED IN IP/IN.
184003. TO EDIT THE INDEX RECORDS

AFTER RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS, EDIT THE. INDEX RECORD

ACCORDING TO DOI 70-19.

+ TO DESTROY INDEX RECORD: MARK THE INDEX RECORD WITH
A GREEN D, AND CITE THE. REASON,

+ TO MAKE CORRECTIONS/ADDITIONS: ENTER THE CHANGES ON
THE INDEX RECORD IN GREEN INK.

+ FORWARD TO IP/RMS VIA YOUR RECORDS OFFICER

REQUEST NO-/DATE/TINE aor cousaLibarion
i INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

SIDE.
S08M 362 use racyrous secré979 Oy £2, IMPDET CL. BY: 007622 (48-26)

“2 PHits a7.


14- 00000

“IN JE x “SEARCH RESPUNSE

Les tue” 7

~-WORs : SEXs" CIT:
FNGE “SPELLED "MASKS MATS

Noss Rees ARE-AVAILASLE-TC-THIS NANG -IN--THe-MA
Far an ir THESE. REF S—NUST— ek ¥

ole ocaReS -REPRGOUCES--AN- “D. “ATT AC Hi

TR/CFS. = -3C~ “52 -
~ ded Adv. 4601-74938.

soo oe ARE POGOe

Se C-R-E-F- ES -LMPUET &



14- “00000
eg

Sm E-C-R-E-T

~ aa ARDP~0U0ZE
ue Tu THIS NANG IN THE MAIN | ULJANGE
Test REFS MUST BENRANUA cLY creme

ial ie Jan +6 92748388

_ ARDP-VOIZ2 > Se oo
WES -NAME-OEN-THE-MAEN= = 0 SANGO -
-REPS-MUST GE MANUALLY Sterne

“CARDS: REPRODUCED AN O ATTACHED -

2Ot-bus3404—

TP /GES lek] tel eee
oT cr ok

_ SrecUoR-E“T Ed iHPUET Eb~eY C5869 Se



14-00000

rp eee OcavORbata® ORDER. FR:
PERF Un

TR/GRS-~— 30-52
RO-AVATLABLE-

RUMIRED-TOB—-HA
Liv- MEK ECU ve

ah sak FR Se se8e

S8b8-93362- -
QSIUNSE ee
SER-7 ~ co - ee

cee ee we : to PAGE BOO

winC-K-E-T EZ EMPLET CL BY O1ld666 cee nee ee



14-00000

ELRZA PAELUS ~~



14-00000

~-AP-ERTURE~ CARD—AVATL AGL
: ~ - 08 -JUL

—284-0009950-—-- ~
en —K¥K—-L bb 6-5-—-—- ee ee
wa he. _

POSLOGATORTDATAT-ORDEN “FROM EP PEF S GEM SZ
= =} 56-86 7BTOS3—

Ee- TMP GeT CL-bY -G15566-.



14-00000

-Ge-aY. OL 5a be~



14-00000 _

we CREATE

ES MRSa fom --2dt-OUGdT06" ;
REFERENCE E-UF MA FH be HAR Da-BRUS SET i <= coe ee
“GROER FROM -FP/EFS- ~-GE~52- - -

a BEAN 5806317307:

“ENO —OF REP EY TU2E REEERDS- bistee

