# 104-10216-10159

## Page 1

104-10216-10159|

WNTNNNNWNT92907N599T BOlC0..G90095.

• UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Oprionel)

FROM:

C/TSD/EB

TO: 1olam designetion, roce eeender, en

bwildhnng)

EERNAL

Nei ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONI ENTIAL

SECRET

DATE

EXTENSIORS

WIThALI

RECEVED

FOIWARDED

C/WH/SA/MOB/PM

GH4408 Hdgrs.

Na/sapofors

3.

. WHISA/ECB/

Cattu

$.

6.

роз

W

NO

DATE

24 June 1964

COMUEN S fo d oo caiea o at o toca moas

to whom.

Bashnell 1.3x

phantow ocopes de

Inase in (appdar-

w/w distsikuteni

aif have englich mackeny

NNOLE: 22030

ARAI0 Ntcha

8.

10.

tee Armensufe

seern libe a focke pite

thas.

12.

13.

14.

15.

PORAL

1-62

610 "ETDSCN EI SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

=

that it!

SECRET

24 June 1964

MENORANDUM FOR: C/KH/SA/NOB/PH

SUBJECT

: Improved Sight for 7.62 Belgiun (PAL) Rifle

REFERENCE

• a) Memo for the Red. dated 25 May 64,

Subject:

"FAL Silencer/Sights", fron

C/WH/SA/MOB/PM

18 provided! accordance with reference a) the following material

Three open rear sight hoods for the subject rifle.

1) Three copies of instructions for installing the

sight and zeroing the rifle.

c) Three tool kits containing an adjustment screw

driver and two files.

d) 100 rounds of improved underloaded ammunition with

cream of wheat filler.

(Boxes marked with red strip.

These should be substituted for the rounds alread

delivered).

*. It must be understood that the limited time available

would not permit more that cursory acceptance testing and the

superiority of this sight over the standard unit has not been

definitely established.

without extensive modification to the weapon.

For additional information regarding this matter con-

tact

on extension 3319

Chief

TSD/Engineering Branch

Attachments: As Stated

Distribution:

1 • Addressee

] - TSD/SDB

1

- C/TSD

1 - EB81J

61) & 1

w.""

SECHET

---

## Page 3

SNAP-ON SIGHT HOOD FOR

THE 7.62 BELGIUM (FAL) RIFLE

The sight hood snaps over the existing rear sight on

the 7.62 Belgium (FAL) rifle.

It is designed to raise the rear

sight to compensate for the more curving trajectory of the under-

loaded ammunition and is an open sight for increased night sighting

capability.

The sight hood is oriented with the three screws facing

the muzzle end of the rifle (See attached drawings).

down on the hood until the ball detent snaps into the peep hole

3.

The slot for the existing rear sight is made tight

so that the hood will fit firmly in place.

If it fails to fit,

file the existing rear sight as necessary.

If the sight fits

set screw on the

sight hood.

4.

The weapon must be zeroed on a known distance firing

range to determine

the sight settings and proper sight picture

for standard and underloaded ammunition when using the hood.

The only adjustments possible are those already on the rifle.

That is, elevation control using the graduated ramp and windage

control by adjustment of the two locking screws at the base of

the existing rear sight dovetail.)

It is very important to hold the rifle the same way each

time so that the relation of the eye to the rear sight

remains constant.

The user must determine his own zero

for each rifle and hood combination and maxinur effective

range for each ammunition type.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

FRONT VIEW

---

## Page 5

apai a incano todo

REAR VIEW

---

