# 104-10113-10404

## Page 1

(104-10113-10404).

SECRET

...

21 JUL 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Legislative Counsel

ATTENTION:

MI. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA Matters

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Robert W. Gambino

Director of Security

HSCA Request

1. (U/AIUO) Reference is made to the 19 July 1978

request of the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

for

assistance of the Agency in arranging interviews in

Mexico with ten individuals (OLC 78-2718). The records of

the Office of Security have been checked and files have been

located on eight of the ten individuals.

(S) The following is a brief outline of the nature

of the

relationship that the Agency had with each of the

eight individuals on whom the Office of Security has files.

The outline also

indicates whether or not this file

has been

requested for review by the HSCA and whether or not it has

actually been reviewed by HSCA staff members.

June Cobb Sharp - OS. File #216 264 reflects opera-

tional interest in this American citizen from 1960 until

1968.

The file, which is in three volumes, has been

partially reviewed by HSCA staffers_ Lopez and Hardway.

Henry P. Lopez (Edward P. Tichborn) - OS File #203 377

reflects operational interest in this American citizen

from 1959 until 1968.

The file has been prepared for HSCA

review but has not yet been

seen by the HSCA staffers.

Manuel Calvillo - OS File

#Loz Jyy on this Mexicar

citizen

reflectsToperational interest in 1962)

)24The file

was reviewed by HSCA staffer Lopez on 12 and 17 July 1978.

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063344

OS 8 1971/A

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

24.09

Al Witrich (Correct name Alfonso R. Wichtrich -

oS File #35 002 reflects operational interestin this

naturalized U.S. citizen

during 1962/00 The file has beer

prepared for review by the HSCA but has not yet been

reviewed.

24

Luis Alberu Suoto - OS File #279 089 reflects topera-

roma o2 rest in sale was at one time of interest

Cuban citizen intermittently)el

Jan Mexico City. 24

The file has been prepared for review but has not yet

been reviewed by the HSCA.

Consuelo Esperon - OS File #280 142 reflects that

this Mexican citizen was of operational interest during 24, 09

962 and 1963. At that time, She was employed as

ecretary in the Cuban Embass

in Mexico City. The file

has been prepared for review but has not yet been reviewed

by the HSCA.

Ramon Joseph Alvarez Durant - OS File #114 926

reflects that Durant,

who was born in New York City,

holds Mexican and American citizenship. Durant was 24,00

employed as a Contract Agent from 1955 until 19,700.

During

he was (assigned to Mexico City 24, 1C

There is no indication in his security file that he has'

previously been of interest to the HSCA.

LIONION I (True Name Alberto Rodriguez Gallego) -

OS File #228 726 reflects that this Cuban citizen was of

operational interest from 1961) until at least 1967. His

file does not reflect previous interest by the HSCA.04

3.

(S) The Office of Security does not maintain a file

on

Gen. Jose

Jesus Clark Flores or Noe Palomares, however, 1t

is known that both of these names were previously the subject

of inquiries from the HSCA.

4.

(U/AIUO) In regard to the individuals in paragraph 2

on whom the Office of Security

does maintain files,

it is noted

that the information in these

files is

generally quite dated and

would be of limited assistance in

ascertaining their current

whereabouts.

BEA

for Robert W. Gambino

2 SECRET

i3/0

---

## Page 3

Distribution:

Orig. & 1

-

Addressee

1

-

D/Security

1

OS Registry

1

SAG

1 - HSCA Request File

1 -

Each

Subject

File - 280142

OS/PSI/SAG/RMReardon :mgk

(21 JUL78)

---

