# 104-10072-10227

## Page 1

104-10072-10227

DISPATCH

CLANSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR IMDEXINO

Chief, WH/Cubbis

BEFO

NO INDEXING REQUIRIO

ORLY QUALIFIED DISM

CAM IVOGE INDEXING

COS, JMWAVE

Chief, DOD

XX

Chief of Base, New York

TYPIC/AMCLOCK/1

Transmittal of Contact Reports for First Two Meetings WIth

ACTICA PIQUIRED. REUTENCES

AMCLOCK/1

ACTION REQUIRED: FXI

REFERENCE: DO BASE/NEW YORK 3346, et seg.

1. Transmitted herewith are one copy for each

addressee

of the

contact reports prepared by Peter J. DI GERVENO con-

cerning his first two meetings with AMCLOCK, 1. Report #1,

New York Memorandum (NYM) - 2233,

deals with a meeting held

26 September 1967; Report #2, NYM-2234, deals with a meeting

held 27 September.

IDENTITY Sheets for each of the two reports follow

separate cover enclosure to this dispatch.

3.

dispatch.

Contact reports of later meetings will follow by

Howard G. FIGALAN

ATTACHMENTS :

1-Contact Reports

stated

para

2-IDENTITY Sheets

as stated

para

DISTRIBUTION:

3/C/WH/Cuba,

w/atts. #1 & 2

1- DOD* JMWAVE

w/atts.

# 1. &

w/o att

i.:

h/w

USC

as stated

2 as

stated

URE

GARD REPRODUCTION

OISPATCH SYMUOL AND NUMBER

* UNDA 3263

CIASSIFIGATIOM

SECRET/RYBAT

CS COPY

DATE

13 October 1967

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-009239

9318

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECR

ET

CONTACT REPORE NO

TO: AMCIOCH/L File

FROM: Peter DI GERVENO/UMKAVE

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMCLOCK/L.

26 September 1967

REFERENCES: DO BASE/NER YORK 3346

and 3352

DESENSITIZE

8 October 1967

NXH-2233

Distribution:

I-UMLE A ChronO DUMMY

I-UMLE B ChIONO DUMMY

4-ANCIOCK/L File

(Original via ELMARD)

Introduction

1445-5547

AMCIOCK/I arrived in New York on 19 Septenber 1967. He

had been given instructions

to call a JMRAVE operational number

(Iden A) next time he was out an a friendly country in order to receive

concacE instructions.

When he

failed to call soon after his arrival

it was decided to try to establish visual contact with hin at albate,

same as was done successiully in 1966, to move hin to call for contact

instructions.

For that

pUIPOSe DI GERVENO WaS taXen tO HTBASTE On

.7

21 September carrying a match folder fron Iden Biwith his alias, Eden C

and room number.

The plan was to make sure AMCLOCK/1 recognized

DI GERVENO, Who also met him in 1966, and to pass the match folde

to AMADCK/l only if this could be done securely.

DI GERVENO was

able to make definite visual contact on four different occasions:

once atIden D, twice at (iden E"and a fourth time on the corridor

between Aden D'and (Iden E

AMCLOCK/1 quickly recognized DI GERVENO

and tried to keep himself

available for a possible contact. However

this was not possible and

the coutante on 21 Sontamher were limited

to visual recognition only:

1685

2 .

During this time the operational number of the Beekman site

(Iden G) was also manned in case AMCLOCK/1 had

retained this nunber

and attempted to call DI GERVENO there instead of IMWAVE, but he

failed to cali either place for contact instructions.

It was then

decided to attempt to contact the agent again on 26 September at

HTBASTE.

While attempts were being made to locate AMCLOCK/1

the

case officer surveilled the building where AMCLOCK/l is staying

Iden

81)

and saw him go in by himself at 1310 hours to leave his briefcase.

At 1330 hours, AMCLOCK/L left the building alone to go for lunch and

DI GERVENO followed him.

AMCLOCK/l recognized the case officer and

after exchanging safety signals DI GERVENO passed the match folder

to the agent while both were waiting on a crowded street corner for

the red light to change, ät which

time AMCLOCK/1 told DI GERVENO

chat he hao no way to contact hin and would see him after lunch.

SECRET

81:3108..5

SESENSITIED

---

## Page 3

14.00000

SECRET.

- 2 -

TESTISTE

Operational Chrontogy

On 26 September AMCLOCK/1 met DI GERVENO from 1500 to 1830

at (Iden B

AMCLOCK/1 appeared to be in good health and rested and in

high spirits. He was very glad to see LI GERVENo again

and to be able

to discuss things openly.

He criticized bitterly the living conditions

in PBRUMEN but does not seem to be affected by it or by the fact that

he had to live under a regime he obviously hates.

In fact, he seemed

quite sure of himself and plans to return to PBRUMEN at the end of the

HTBASTE session.

He is scheduled to remain in New York until December

1967 but may return to PBRUMEN before then for a short visit to l00k

after his ailing mother and his wife, who had a baby girl two weeks

prior to his departure.

This may have influenced AMCLOCK/1 not to

think about a possible defection at this time, which came as a surprise

to the case officer who expected the agent to have second thoughts

about return to PBRUMEN where he is not happy.

4.

AMCLOCK/1 explained that he could not make contact as instructed

because he had destroyed the phone number and both accommodation

addresses we had given him for him to report from inside PBRUMEN. He

destroyed them in the toilet at the airport upon his arrival in

PB RUMEN

in late December 1966 after observing a number of uniformed individuals

at the airport which he considered to be suspicious, although they had

nothing to do with AMCLOCK/1.

This may have been a convenient excuse for

hia failure to make contact as instructed but DI GERVENO did not press

che issue.

Instead he was given the operational numbers of the Beekman

site and of the Base in New York (Iden I and told he could always call

there if he could not locate DI GERVENO at (den B.)

He was

also given

the IMWAVE number for emergency contact.

AMCIOCK/1 said he tried to

make contact by calling (Iden J'to inquire about MIDDAUGH in true name,

bur after much probing he was told that MIDDAUGH was in Washington and

wag given a phone number for him to call direct.

AMCLOCK/1 was planning

to call Washington at a later day it he had not been contacted.

5. AMCLOCK/1 réported that he has

had no security problems and

has not been molested inside of PBRUMEN.

He was treated "royally" by

the AMTHUG regime in early 1967 and everybody seemed pleased to see

him back. Apparently his return surprised some individuals who pri-

vately thought he would defect rather than return to PBRUMEN to live.

During thie time he enjoyed special privileges

and received frequent

invitationa to official functions wich foreign diplomats.

However.

by mid 1967 the special privileges and invitations were gradually

suspended for no apparent reason.

(For example, he was no longer

allowed to taxe his private car to a government garage for repairs

and he had

to arrange for themaintenance of his house, which was given

to him and kept up by the government at first). AMCLOCK/1 believes

that this was due to his being under "observation" while going through

& raorientation period after his long stay abroad. There is nothing

to indicate that AMCLOCK/1 is not trusted of accepted by other govern

ment officials. The fact that he was

sent out again is fistrong

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

con 3-m

DE SENSITIZED

indication that he enjoi

favorable position in the AMTHUG regime.

He hopes that in 1968

he will be assigned to another permanent post

abroad.

6.

In reference to his w. fe AMCLOCK/l stated that he is now

convinced that she is totally against the AMTHUG regime. After

their marriage in late 1966 he was not sure of her true political

ideology but during the past year he has been able to confirm her

He feels confident that she

would

follow him in any movement against the regime,

such

as

defection,

but has not told her about his work for worACt.

GiN-AL PIAZ PiAZ

Scot

Regarding the trip to New York, AMCLOCK/J/reported that with duft

them came Iden k? a known intelligence typer and four other individuals

Later AMCLOCK/1

in answer co

specific questions AMCLOCK/I said that the crate they brought contained

onLy a vase far Iden P: AMCLOCK/1 is not aware if any weapons or special

iñstructions have been sent to Iden Pin connection with racial dis-

turbances in WOLADY.

The routine instructions given to den Pwere to

oppose INHARP actions in HIBASTE whenever possible and to try to bring

all debatable matters to HYBASTE, where they have better support

8. AMCLOCK/1 was not seen going in of out of the room and the

meeting was conducted without interruption under most secure condi-

tions, DI GERVENO established immediate rapport with AMCLOCK/1 and

theix relations remained most cordial throughou: the meeting. Only

DI GERVENO and AMCLOCK/1 were present.

Etnances

9.

DI GERVENO was careful not to mention salary payments to

AMCLOCK/l who is not aware of his salary increase to $1,000 a month

effective & January 1966.

However,

ne requested $500 to buy books

and baby items for his daughter.

DI GERVENO told him that he would

bring hin the money in their next meeting. All payments to AMCLOCK/1

will be i/n'd to IMWAVE rogether with the agent's signed receipts.

Intelligence Production

10. Although most of the meeting was

used to discuss operational

matters,

AMCLOCK/i reported

disseminable information.on the following

requirements given in DIRECTOR 37960.

a .

Present actitude of the PBRUMEN government towards the

United States:

expectation of a military attack on

PBRUMEN suppoiled by the United States: formal military.

trainina seina siven to all PARUMEN army officials

(DO BASE/NEN YORK 3382)

S

OESENSITIZED

GION

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRETESENSITIS

ANDRICAN

our sit mo

D.

C .

di .

dignitisy

(L17S6)

PBRUMEN views regarding

lIdens

(Q;

Pandi i (DO BASE/NEW YORK 2390)

Replacement of PBRUMEN Ambassador to

the USSP and PBRUMEN

views regarding the soviet Ambassador to PBRUMEN

(DO BASE, NEW YORK 3392) .

Main objectives of the Foreign Policy of the MaTHud

regime (being disseminated).

Future Flans

11. The next meeting was scheduled for the following day.

27 September,

for lunch

at the Beekmar

sate.

NOTIONS,

C 33mZD

SECR

E T

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CAR AS WASHEDAY

Iden A

Iden B

• Iden C

Iden D =

Iden E

Iden E

Iden G

Iden H -

Iden I-

Iden J-

Iden K -

Iden I

Iden M ..

Iden N=

Iden 0 -

Iden P

Iden Q

Iden R

C20dW4UN

IrrA

SECRET

nEaK

Identities to NYM-2233

,-+ 1 8 1967

SECRET

CS COPY

DESEICITIZED

TONS

---

## Page 7

14-00000

..

Iden A

Iden B

Iden D'

I den E

Iden F

I den C

......

Ider. i

Iden I

Iden J

Iden K

S EC R

E

Identitzes to

SECR

E T

CESENSITIZID

2234

*REPRODUCTIONS

CRITURE CARD

---

## Page 8

14-00000

11

DE SEBISTTIZED

CONTACT REPORT NO. 2

TO: AMCLOCK/1 File

FROM: Peter J. DI GERVENO/JMWAVE

SUBJECT:

Meeting with AMCLOCK/1,

27 September 1967

REFS: DO BASE/NEW YORK 3362 and 3359:

DIRECTOR 37254 and 37960

9 October 1967

NYM-2234

Distribution:

1-Unit A Chrono DUMMY

1-Unit B Chrono DUMMY

4-AMCLOCK/1 File

(Original via ELMARD)

Operational Chronology

On 27 September 1967 AMCLOCK/1 met DI GERVENO from 1130 to

1530

for lunch at the Beckman site.

The agent was not seen

entering

or leaving the site and he stayed out of sight when food was brought

up from the restaurant downstairs.

The meeting was conducted under

secure conditions and without interruptions. Only AMCLOCK/1 and

DI GERVENO were present at the meeting.

AMCLOCK/1 reported that he nad been assignea to work It

Iden A with (Iden Bi

game as last year. A few days before his departure

from PBRUMEN. (Iden C told AMCLOCK/1 to watch out for Iden B who is a

member of the intelligence service and will be reporting on AMCLOCK/1.

The implication was--that AMCLOCK/I was

still under observation by the

AMTHUG regime and iden C'actually told him to bend backwards in every

way possible to prove himself while in New York. AMCLOCK/1 explained

that this meant to live a model life while abroad and to perform extra

work whenever required, without complaining. AMCLOCK/1 believes that

(Iden B is being trained to take over AMCLOCK/l's position as an expert

i his vete quired

in economics for the ANTHUG regime. If this is the case,

the last time AMCLOCK/1 is sent to (Iden A Still, under much probing,

AMCLOCK/i could not come out with any clear indication that he was

suspected or was

falling out of grace with the AMTHUG regime. Although

the agent has a tendency to emphasize

his "delicate" position, the

case officer believes that he is not mistrusted and still enjoys a

favorable position in the government

although probably considered too

bourgeois to be completely integrated with their communist philosophy.

3 .

Regarding the recent changes made in PBRUMEN diplomatic

personnel abroad, AMCLOCK/1 was not aware of any security shake up

taking place in the Foreign Ministry.

He regarded these changes

as a routine master in accordance with their policy to bring back

reorientation tour all those diplomats stationed

abroad for three

consecutive years or more.

AMCLOCK/1 actually

SECRET

GESENSITIZED

CTIONS

---

## Page 9

14-00000

• 1.

SECRET

..2-

CECSNSITELD

appeared not to be aware of any major purge and not to be concerned

about it. However, if this is true the chances for AMCLOCk I to be

reassigned abroad in the near

future appear doubtful at this time.

When DI GERVENO asked AMCLOCK/1 about his work and how the

recent changes may affect him, the agent then reported the following

information about his position in the Foreign Ministry. After his

return in late December 1966 he was given four months vacation, during

which time he went by the ministry trom time to time but had no job

assigned to him. He used most of this time for a honeymoon and to

relocate in his new home furnished by the PBRUMEN government.

s25ing of 1967 fIden Ciconsidered him actively as a substitute for

äden Diwhom Iden does not like. However, the job did not materialize

because (Iden C'S plans to send Eden D' as Ambassador to Canada were not

"accepted by (Iden I whom Iden &was going to send as Ambassador to

switzerland.

At that time AMCLOCK/1 was also

considered for a position

in Iden? which was the position the PBRUMEN President

take, but AMCLOCK/1 avoided the position although it implied frequent

travels abroad.

The reason AMCLOCK/1 gave for not taking the position

at (iden E) was

that he did not want to break away from his diplomatic

career and felt he would be better protected among his frends in the

Foreign Ministry.

Consequently, after his vacation AMCLOCK/I want

back to work in the Foreign Ministry but without any specific duties.

He is actually doing odd jabs for Iden C, like economic studies.

mid 1967 AMCLOCK/1 and(Iden G)were proposed by (Iden Cand accepted by

Iden Das members of a four-man committee (the other two membore

not been selected yet) which is to be created in the foreign Miniatry

to make specific area studies and recommendations to aden if Since

both AMCLOCK/1 and Eden @have been assigned to the lIBASTE unaudon.

it is concluded that the creation of said "Advisory Committee" in not

contemplated until early 1968.

Accoiding to AMCLOCK /l the crostion

of this "Advisory Committee" has beer discussed at the haghest levela

only and it may have some influence in the policy maxing decisiona

"of liden H, which is the main body that dictates present PaRUMiN

maign policy.

5. It may be well to record here that we should tare at rain

Sf salt the selection of AMCLOCK/à tO

such à Bengative yource ot

information as an "Advisory Comnittee" to Iden #would be.

The agent

may be trying to build up his importance to us.

note that in the past year that AMCLOCK/l has been residing angideo?

PBRUMEN he has made no clear effort to obtain and develop new sources

of information and to bring out with him intelligence of particular

interest to us. For example, he has no information on the apocalis

requirements we gave him in 1966 prior to his retuin to parumen and

when asked to identify his main sources of information he said trey

cantrate in the foreign Ministfy and Ident I

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

DESENS!..a.

was 3 ame

are old friends of AMCLOCK/1. (Iden k)is

also a cousin of AMCLOCK/1'g

wife.

(AMCIOCK/1 is a difficult Individual to debrief on hard

intelligence.

6.

Regarding internal security in the PBRUMEN mission in

New York, AMCLOCK/l reported that the entire third floor of the

mission is used only by members of the intelligence service.

Not

even the Ambassador is allowed in that area.

Besides Iden B,>

AMCLOCK/1 correctly identified the known members of the intelligence

service permanently assigned to the PBRUMEN mission.

Finances

AMCLOCK/1 was given $500 he requested from his escrow

account and signed a receipt for this amount, which will be t/ad

to JMWAVE.

B .

During the meeting AMCLOCK/1 was debriefed on the following

information which was disseminated as

indicated:

a. Changes of PBRUMEN diplomats abroad; expected internal

reorganization in the PBRUMEN Foreign Ministry (DO BASE/

NEW XORK 3373)

Advisory Committee on PBRUMEN Foreign POliCY (DO BASE/

NEW YORK 33761

c. Informal message sent to PBRUMEN Prime Minister by

Mexican President (D0 BASE/NEW YORK 3375)

d. Appointment of PBRUMEN Ambassador to

(Brazzaville) (00 BASE/NEW YORK 3374)

the Congo

Future Piali:

9. Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for 29 September

between 1300 and 1400 hours.

with the assayinent of ANCLOCk/I to

Iden A)his tree time will be nore restricted from now an for future

meetings.

However, the agent agreed

to contact DI GERVENO, as often

as possible.

OME,

GART

APER

"SITIZED

SECR

E

---

