# 104-10161-10091

## Page 1

104-10161-10091

7-79M5G

2176

•CABLE SEE DISSEM BIOL

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

. PER

TOTAL COPIES

46 - LaUN BY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THI

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF

C/ LA 8

ACTION I

AT. --

VR chplaMs Del (FALK) CSIRF

ST AF

LACE

T 651930

F

12003 PCSINT

OLL DPA BEGURS

EIA932

"Connos cupa"

PAGE 01

TOR: B4 1930Z MAR 77 C/PCS/SS4

• N 20046

2/-17

136 41 4

SECRET 041555Z MAR 77 STAFF

CITE

32414

TO: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT

REF:

16-17 .

132384 (IN 203537)

1. ON

3 MARCH CHARGE (DOMS TALKED "INFORMALLY" TO FOREIGN

MINISTER ESCOVAR SALOM, INFORMATION MINISTER DIEGO ARRIA. AND

PRESIDENTIAL CONFIDANT AND UNOFFICIAL PRESS ADVISOR EUGENIO SOLER.

TO ALL THREE CHARGE MADE SAME TWO BASIC POINTS WITH THOUGHT THESE

WOULD BE RELAYED TO PRESIDENT PEREZ: (1) VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

HAD MISREAD NEW YORK TIMES STORY: HAD AT TRIBUTED TO DAVID PHILLIPS

STATEMENTS APPARENTLY MADE BY OTHERS; HAD OVER-REACTED TO

WHAT SEEMED TO BE AN EFFORT ON PHILLIPS' PART TO BE HELPFUL: AND

12) THE USG WAS STANDING PAT ON THE PRESIDENT'S LETTER. NO ONE ELSE

WAS SPEAKING, COULD OR WOULD SPEAK FURTHER FOR THE USG ON THIS SUBJECT.

AS FAR AS THE U.S, WAS CONCERNED, ISSUE WAS CLOSED AND WE HOPED

GOV WOULD SEE IT THE SAME WAY.

RISTURN TO CIA

Background Use On

2. DURING 3 AND EARLY 4 MARCH IT APPEARS THAT THE CHARGE IS DO NO Reproduce

EFFORTS: AND TRADITIONALLY SHORT LATIN AMERICAN ATTENTION SPAN

HAVE COMBINED TO GREATLY EASE CRISIS SITUATION OF LAST WEEK. AT

SECRET

3/108

---

## Page 2

14-00000

7-71 MPO 2116

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY.

_ PER

TOTAL COPIES

RUN BY

EPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAI

ISSUING

OFFICE

15

PROHIBITE

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

BY

AT

STAFF

1

N

RF . FILE .

VR

5

ACTION #

3

T 651930

E1 A9 32

PAGE D2

IN 206462

21-17

TOR: 041930Z MAR 77

32414

LEAST AS FAR AS GOV IS CONCERNED. CAP AND GOVERNMENT SPOKESMEN

HAVE ALL STATED THAT INCIDENT HAS ENDED AND ARE NOW TRYING TO

DIVERT ATTENTION TO OTHER SUBJECTS. MEDIA COVERAGE

IS RETURNING

TO NORMAL WITH STORIES OUT OF HEADLINES AND BACK ON PAGE SIX OR

EIGHT, SUPERSEDED BY NIEHOUS CASE, UGANDAN SITUATION, OPEC PRICE

HIKE, ETC. UNFORTUNATELY, EVERY. VENEZUELAN WEEKLY MAGAZINE HAS

• LONG ARTICLE (S) ON CIA WHICH ARE, OF COURSE, DEFAMATORY, AND

TEND TO WHIP UP PUBLIC ANTIPATHY TOWARDS AGENCY, THEN TOO, THERE

IS STILL MATTER OF DEMONSTRATION AGAINST CIA WHICH TWO DAYS AGO

CAP SEEMED TO BE INSTIGATING IN TWO MEETINGS WITH JOSE VICENTE

RANGEL AND POMPEYO MARQUEZ OF MAS AND JESUS

FAR I A OF THE POV. NEVERTHELESS, ON THE WHOLE, THE INTEREST

IN THIS ISSUE SEEMS TO BE DROPPING OFF AND DYING OUT RATHER

RAPIDLY,

24

SECRET

2/p0

---

## Page 3

14-00000

771-166

2176

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF . FILE.

ACTION #

T 651930

RUN HY

E

_T

BY

TOTAL COPIES

S F_C R

AT.

ISSUING

ISSPRODUCTIOCE IS PROMETHO

OFFICE

STAFF

VR

5

EI A932

PAGE D3

TOR: D41930Z MAR 77

> 11

ALTHOUGH AMBASSADOR, STILL

SOMETHING OF A POLLYANNA AT SUCH TIMES, SERIOUSLY UNDERESTIMATED

CAPIS INTENTION TO

AN ACTION WHICH CAME WITHIN

ONE HOUR OF OCCURING. ANYWAY, THOROUGOUT ALL OF THIS

HAVE CONTINUED THEIR CONTACTS AND HAVE TRIED TO BE AS

FRIENDLY AND UNDERSTANDING, PERHAPS EVEN [COVERTLY HELPFUL, AS

SITUATION WOULD ALLOW. TYPICAL OF

2" JATTITUDE iSl

CONVERSATION WITH CRYMM DURING PEAK OF CRISIS

HAVING DISCUSSED A VARIETY OF TOPICS OF (COMMON OPS INTEREST,

ASKED CRYMM. "WELL OTHERWISE, HOW ARE THINGS GOING?"

CRYMM REPLIED, " YOU WHOULD KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT", TO WHICH

SAID, SOMEWHAT GLUMLY, " YET, I SUPPOSE SO".

4. WE SHOULD NOT FOOL OURSELVES IN THINKING THAT THE WORLD

HERE IS NOT DIFFERENT, HOWEVER. WKSCARLET-9 COVERTLY REPORTED

IN 206462

21-17

32 41 4

SECRET

24

---

## Page 4

14-00000

7-7184F6. 2176

CABLE SEÇ DISSEM BY.

_ PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

- ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF . FILE

ACTION #

N

F

т 651930

EIA932

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

BY

AT

VR .

REPRODUCTION

ISSUING

UCFFICE IS PROMPETI

OTHER

STAFF

2

3

PAGE 04-04

TOR: 041930Z MAR 77

IN 206462

21-17

32414

SO, AS CAN BE SEEN BY ALL OF THIS,

THE RELATIVELY EASY OPERATING CONDITIONS OF THE RECENT PAST NO

LONGER PERTAIN- PERHAPS THEY NEVER WILL AGAIN- AND WHILE WE ARE

NOT BECOMING PARANOID NOR WILL. WE BE UNDULY SPOOKED, WE HAVE

ADJUSTED TO THE NEW AMBIENTE AND ARE NOW BEING MUCH MORE

•CONSERVATIVE AND CAUTIOUS IN OUR ACTIVITIES THAN BEFORE.

5. NO FILE. E2, IMPDET.

SE C

REL

2/00

---

