104-10173-10128)

ae ear

= UATERLAL REVEENED AT CPS HEALQUAPTERS ry

SASSERATIONS STARE HEMRERS

7

HOUSE:

POT COMIEPTRL ON

sinergvonuns 2 reeled . MUTT

FELE TITLES
Gt 12 COS DECUMEATS.

“CUSTODIAL. UNIT/ LOCATION!

DELETIONS, TF ANY:

7—STRHATURE oF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL.

tabs Wetter,

REVITSED WY
PRINT NATE)

Wirelman

No PUCUMENTS MAY BE COPELD OR REMOVED FRET THES BILE cae Hy



Planeta Mees

RECORD MATERIAL.

1: .THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU, Dy e

tes it

2, RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES & ae ———
DISVPUSITIUN SECTION, Rit Gi-58, CN OR BEFORE _——_—_——___——

DATE INDICATED. :
3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT “TO ANOTHER: . ————
INDIVIDUAL FLASH CALL EXTENSION —_—__—

“po NOT weMOvE. THIS “FORM

qa,

= plo sess”) secret. OO CONFIDENTIAL CJ Use ant | (UNCLASSIFIED

ar


£988 Fora. 0001
: oss stcneTaniat = ROUTE SLIP

*
~ | 0. C." Doering, Je. E

J. Bi Donevan:

Do yihdloar meet Ve depend
1 Pet vere? Rate ky Hew te
7 rook doesens verte | # Ss



SECRET

OFFICE, OF STRATEGIC SERVICES
Schools and Training Besoch
2324 F Steet, N.W.
Washington, D.C, 23 April 1915

SUBJECT: Report of Lt. Hunt on Kest Coast Tretning

: a TO _. the Director, Oss

1, the‘ report of Its £,.ie unt, Irs, aC, of the Secretariat, on
. the west coast training. has. been andlyzed-and the. statements mate. therein
thoroughly investigated. : ve : :

2. The report will be digcussed by paragraphs; : :

Ae (1) The complaint of lack of coordination in arrivals at
the west.coast cannot be laid at the door of Schools # Training. Branches
are notified wlien and where personnel must report and arrangements for .
transportation are made by. them, : : cee

(2) & (3) At the time of LteHuntts. -Arival at the west coast.
there was a certain amount: of confusion. This has now been corrected and
glothing is issued to students on Friday night if they arrive in tine for ;
j thio to be done. : : :

: . (4) % (S$) The situation referred’ to in these two paragréphs ~
i : is a difficult one. With the boat “crews presently available, it 1s not) ~
possible to run’a boat. on Sundays, It nay be pessible to seni departing, ate
Students to the mainland on Seturday afternoons after: they. conplate their. - ae u
-eourt Thie would necessitate getting roots ‘for then for Saturday night ca
+ in: Los Angeles, which {8 complicated by the. fact that the tos Angeles office 2
closes at. three ofclock:on Saturday 2fternoons.. It 1s desirable. that, new
students arrive at the. island on urdiy3 in érder.to cet oriented over the
Weekend and-be ready to start. training on Yonday morning.’ The..cronded. on
ditions over the week-end referred'to by Lt. Hunt were not due. to the fact
that departing students do not leave un'-il Monday,“as the turnover is not
Ereat enough; the crowding 1e caused my‘ the fact thatthe schocl is. raniing
“at full edpacity and because shortage of.station complenent personnel makes “+

the allocation of quarters:to new arrivals difficult. 4 hotel locator. :
situations. -

system haa now been instituted which has to some extent. .renedied.

3, (1). Lt. Hurit's suggestion that. the baste course could be cut bys
: severdl days cives no specific recoanendations. An examination of the Biaree
: schedule of thé course shows that the training is es concentrated as possible...
He prefer to accept the judgment of the treining officers of the vartous’
id branchea on tnis point rather than a general’ statement by ona junior officer,

of a non-operational branch.



t tne school was unprepared to re=
revieusly hantled 1 clasa of
aSiats were received on this score

fren any other mender of his clasos —

(3) Tt is true that on tno occasicns instructors failed to
mest thelr classes beeanée of a mix-up causod by splitting the class into
_ two sections. Steps have been taken to prevent a repetition of thia E ;
7 OCCUPPENCE + = pee et . seeers

é _ > (hu). On-ehectine vith enother menber of the sane class, it, was
: ascertéinéd thet’ no classes were dianissed after ten minutes. The shortest
perlod given:was about. L5-mimte: + iatstec : :

: - (SY It is not clear just what Lt. Hunt means by this para~
‘ leraph. He complains that training filma broke up leisure tine in the
t .. Teveniny and then says that. because of this many students wanted. evening
a classes. In any event, because. of the concentrated schedule, the evening
eee fours after the showing: of the films must ba used for study, not letsures

7 5 7 (6) Physical treiming {9 now given regularly every. days

(7) The eipher course has been ‘much inproved by the advent of
tng new instrictora. Qreanization taxes only foir hours out of one hundred
ani four, and is at. begt a dry: though ‘necessary subjects ©

‘ (8) % (9) It ig necessary to have both officers and enlisted
zen in the sano class and it-is obviously dspossible to design a. course to
Festal intellectnal levels. very -effort haa been nade te strike a happy
<Zediua that will do the greatedt good to. the creates’ number. Ye feel 1+,
‘only fair to the school to sey that Lte Hunt” has demonstrated hinself ‘to be.
very -rank conscious. in these ‘and other comments in his report, It. should
vise be nated that in this class thore were a nuaber of Jedburghis (both
Officers and nen) who had: Lived -tovether’at: sctiool and in the field for *
dary months. Naturally there was 2. cameraderie anong officers and men,
which apparently .Lts Hunt could riot understands Tt has also, bech reported’ ©";
that he was. subjected to’a cood deal of idddings by the S.0.' ands 7
nenbers of the class, because he was non-operational. His, complaints about

. the conduct of officers nd men and his objection to associating with

~: enlisted men doudtless.spring from these BoUurcAS. ace Ee

Oy (1) Tt is admitted® that the reeredtional facilities are: limited. -
put ‘there-is not much. thme for recreation and what factlities there are are .
used to the. best advantege. Se ool. Trainin; feels that we.were, very for. |
tomate in being able to establish (after: long regotiations) a ‘branch of the”
‘Arey Yotion Picture Service at Ti, This servize is normally available only
: in large corpa where attendance caz he essured Jn thousands. ‘The fact that:

this service is only availahie three rights per week is due to ALPS policy

: and not -to any arrangement on our porte

SECRET PS ,



- SECRET

cei Lt. Cols Ps Xe Allen‘

oan - The PX can hardly be called such. Every effort has been mace
to obtain a regular branch Post Exehance on the islan! but so far without
success. The result is that a small store is maintained of whatever H
necessities can be purchased in the markets, :

There are ample reading facilities: for all personnel with s

sufficierit supply of newspapers and magazines.

(2) The situation with reference™ to the condition of the barracks

anitain in off, Hours.

| has deen remediéd ‘by daily inspections. Offenders are required to climb ‘the

(3). This paragiaph-again reflects Lt.’ Yunt's ‘rank consciousness,

ind. men who have

his lack of understanding of the relationship of. office
ding" he received.

been on operations tojether,’ and his disconfort at the ™

(Ui) It 4s ‘the policy of the school that there be no saluting with=

in the area. The are is small and too crowed for any benefit to accrue

¢ bo necessary if saluting.were

fromthe continuous arm waving which w:
“required. seinen

(5) This complaint ts definitely just, Steps have been taken to
insure the ‘privacy of mail in the future,

3. ‘In conclusion I wish to state that the Schools. & Training Sranck
welcomes any constructive criticism and regularly receives reports from other
branches :prepared by their students. ve then sit down with: the branch repre—
ntatives and-endeavor to iron-out difficulties and inprové. courses and
conditions at the school in line-with constructive’ suggestions.

he «T-would: like to suzgest that in the, case.ofaiy future reports,

fs Sullomay take them up first with tlie Scliools and Training Brdnch as 43,
the custon'of, the other branchess : : :

: Ha Es ROBINSON «= |
ecteeeeree poate . Colonel, Fa "> :

; Lok RTE Ls Chilet,. Schools and Training:
Enel. (uty Huit's Rpt)

SEGHET

-}e



-} OSS Form 3058

Will you let ne know

what you propose doing to ©

“yenedy the attached.

- (3308)



i

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

To
PROM +

‘SUBJECT:

had an opportunity, to. read tt.

Seer

General Donovan, e ‘ pats: 3 April 1945

Secretariat *

Report on West Coast Training Center

T think you may be interestes in the attached report
on the West Coast training center w! was. prepared by
Lt, Howard Hunt, one of our: Secretariat men who-will leave

-Ahortly for China where ne will act a$ Reports officer.

This report’ was written on his: on initiative and
contains his observations based upon tie o=week course
which he recently took at Santa Catalina.

It is suzgested if you approve.that the \report
should be forvarded to Colonel Robinson after \you have

Coeanenon ;
NinvHen <frarges™
Beh Bee |

Als,
apshys

Attachment _



[ bar

Office Memorandum + unire states GovERNMENT

30 March 1945°

To : Chief, Secretariat DATE.

From < Lt. Ey He Hunt, Jr.,"A.C.

subject: West Coast Training Center

1,..The memorandum covers. transportation to and from the
WCTC, the curriculum at Santa Catalina (Detachment. WA), and _
general comments concerning the Detachment. ‘

a A, Zzansportation.. He Geceeeceacte eee ee eau EEEEE
: 1) There séezs-to be a lack of coordination con-
H cerning the arrival and departure of officers and BM at. Los pot
Angeles, Newport Beach, and WA. Navy enlisted men (5 in number), a
were flow to Los Angeles from Washington while the majority of ~~~ H
arny an Navy officers ‘made the trip by slow train (londay= i
riday).

ae 2) -Upon arrival in Los Angéles on Friday, it 19°
g SOP. to travel in the early afternoon by Army truck to Newport
Beach, where arriving students are becihal ee in standard EN

quarters without regard.to ranks !

i 3) Clothes and equipment are issued Saturday

vfrom 0700 until departure of the boat at approximately i
causing crowding and confusion at a difficult time. Friday aH

covenlie would perhaps be a better period for such issue. H

* 4) -Although. classes are nét scheduled to begin:

until Monday, student groups spend the weekend on Catalina: under : :

‘crowded conditions, because previous student groups. do not. leave t

“until Monday. “This situation is brought. about by: abserice of
boat transportation to and from the Astana on Sundays ae ne

5) Upén return to the mainland Monday afternoons,
(although academics end. on‘Saturdays) it is‘necessary to spend
an additional 24 hours in Los Afigéles waiting for scheduled train
Gepartures Tuesdays, By scheduling g boat.:on Sundays, an.
‘estimated 6 days of. Student: time might be saved ‘the’ gévernnont..

b ae Be Curriculum
: 1) Based on ny axpcrianee with the 4 day" basic. ‘
course, it appears that: a re-examination of the student schedule, aad
aimed at a more concentrated schooling and a decrease in the over= E :
lapping nature of subjects taught, could cut the basic period by

several days. : :



i

of ‘training hours scheduled on paper.) . PEE

“Lectur'ars from aiming at a definite lével o£ comprehension...

Work at will, ithout interference by the civilian: instructor:

- Rocce ie
2) The Detachment \(WA) was totally unprepared to

handle ny particular class (#26) which nunbered 42, ‘The maximum
nunter of students handled and antictpated had in ths past been 18,

3) . This resulted ‘in a splitting of the class into qe
sections, and confiision of schedules among the instructors, caus-
ing their non-appearance at scheduled hours ~ not an infrequent
occurrence, rae

E 4) On several’ occasions; instructors spoxe for as NO
little as 10° minutes of a scheduled hour, dismissing the class ne
for.the ‘rehainéer of the hour. (This lecture. materisl might be
coordinated with other lectures, thus cutting down on the number

5) Training films, shown.each evening, broke’ up a
student leisure time to such’an extent that many stucents ex= .
pressed a desire to attend classes in the evenings as well,-
perhaps from 1900-2100 or even! Inter.

. 6) The physical hardening program came abruptly
and then was abandoned for as much ss two days, only to be under= \o-
taken again With greater vigor... Many ‘students suggested that 1
the harden phase be administered every day in the form of a : i
scheduled hike or climb, pees ‘ E

7) Specifically, the courses in Demolitions,
Weapons, Foretgn Background, and Fieidcraft were. the most com-.
petently handled and the most consisteitly well presented,
Cipher, Organization’ and Security were ‘given apathetically and
with little atteipt to evoke student ‘interest and/or participa-
tion, : : :

en

LB a os : —
_8) Mixed classes of BY.and officers prevented. 4.0" e

Officers were bored in many cases by elenéhtary methods: of
presentation, while EN became restless from lack of under-
standing. : : :

: 9) This restlessness caused a disciplinary proble =
in the classrooms where El. cursed, shouted, copted éach other's . . 3

' Cy. Gener'al ‘Comnentg ee
__"2) Recreational factiities were at a mininua with

WD Movies only ‘three nights a weeli, a thorcughly inadequate PX,-"7
and’a lack of reading facilities for both Ext and officers.

. Nee

2) Barracks were maintained by students and oa
instructors at an absolute minimum of sanitation, physical~ te

appearance and confort,
ae ae
sibael



i
i
i
i
|
Hl

a "Sees

-3- : * ae ‘
: yf Gs
3) Upon arrival, many officers were quartered
indiscriminately with EM, which had a deleterious effect upon
the already low standard or military discipline,

4) Saluting and/or regard for rank was absolutely wa, Sey

unknown. This is either a result of Detachment: policy, or lack- +'
of concern on the part of the. responsible officers.

5) censoring of officers' mail had an adverse.
affect upon most officer students, which. became heightened
considerably when the censor: (a3 pp) punished a group of officers’
who had. written their wives.that they were avoiding PT in the H
mornings. -This information was used by the officer as OD from
his ‘position as Detachment Censor, and was considered as “not "
quite cricket" by the officers who knew of the incident. ee

TM Ai Z

E. H. Hunt, Jr.
2d Lt., A. Ce

i
i

