# 104-10186-10153

## Page 1

104-10186-10153

INFORMATION REPORTE

INFORMATION REROR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CS CI-316/02269-65

SUBJECT Rosita (LNU)

26 May 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

1

CSCI-316/02270-65

26 May 1965

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

RETURN TO CIA

PLACE &

Hashington,

D.

DATE ACO.

February

1965

C.

Background Use Only

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED.

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS VENYATIVE

• De Nat Reproduca

SOURCES

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

1nformation

provided

by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agenry.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1. Rosita (LNU) is a stewardess with Cubana Airlines. Prior

to joining Cubana she was employed as a telephone switchboard

operator by the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

Directorate of Intelligence - Dol).

Source described Rosita as being the daughter of a well

de Seguridad del Estado (Department of

state Security - DSE) official or A DG official, but more

likely DSE.

she is a synthetic strawberry blond

five feet six inches

Headguarters Comment

I .

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

, on Rosita (LNU).

5

3

2

1

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

INSA

STATE

ARIAY

NavY

REP

CINCLANT CINCSO # TENS

(Note: fleld dietribution indicated try "#"-)

TXXXX

Bostondon do one conta

trace fatal a

he lasant

TBI 2

MINEORMATION RERORT SHYEORMATION RERORI

I WE/S/R

LL CILIA

JE

ILX 2125

N1 C/1O

LL HELMADR

WL/CIRR/REL

3

LE

NO PROJECT(AMMUG (1)

CSCI -316/02269-05

TU/C/RR/0$5)

SANAVE IL

RID'dY

POPA-411/C8 (1), WEL (1), CI 4,

RID 1

L8a+90n

COOMDIMATIMO MEE ASa

LD; swi

CHIREA

4/BR

---

