JENTRAL INTCLUIGLNCE. AGENCY

‘The Geetectes cot rains Wfoneation afeeting Ue MAMeck! Defense cf ine United Balas wtunin the meaateg oC be Tarinasy Lawn
UDC Bee Tad ane 14 the Waermlasing of fereslon of SRLO 1h nay meaEW to Ka -unauCTNS peCEG Ue prebibited BY fs

. : SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTaY Cuba REPORT NO, CScr-316/016 53-64. ania!
EE i - a a
SUMECT "CASTOR" (pseudonym) DATE OISTR «=—-« 13 October 1964 :
NO. PAGES 2 : APS
Ras ) ‘on
REFERENCES ew oO yor
964 BE yo ox
pate oF 196: an
INFO. . ee 5 ee
paces Washington, D. C. ve ‘ ae
Date acg, Octobor 1964 _FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 18 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOLACE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TOCTATIVE

source,.A former Cuban IS officer who servod withthe Cuban Intelligence |
Service until April .1964. i

Headquarters Comments

: The following report is one of a series containing personality
i information provided by the source ‘and includes supplomental v
information from the records of this agency. i

. It 4s requested that the addressees take no action on any of the |
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first :
checking with this Agency. g i

1. "CASTOR" (pseudonym) is a socretary and assistant to
Manuel PINEIRO Losada; his job is receiving telephone calls and
callers for PINEIRO. "CASTOR" recently made a trip with PINBIRO
to Moscow.

2, “CASTOR” was born about 1929, is five feet eight inches
tall, 155 pounds, and has a medium build. He has a fair ee]
complexion, black wavy hair, black eyes, and usually dresses Hi
in civilian clothes. 1,2,3 . :

Headquarters Comments

: 1. Since source reported that "CASTOR" recently made a trip
to Moscow with PINEIRO and the travel manifest roflecting ‘
PINEIRO's travel from Prague to Habana on 11 May 1964 was :
located with the name of Castor GOMEZ appearing directly
under PINEIRO's, it is the asaumption of this Agoncy that
"CASTOR" and Castor GOMEZ are one and the samo. PIXEIRO's
passport number was listed as 5552/057506 and GOMEZ' was
listed ag 5552/057504.

7 3
; 4
3 SECRET 3
: NO FOREIGN DISSEM :
1 =

iat Orem oy eee

i REP CINCLANT CINCSO_#  T&NS

Gara Fold diibation nated by")

i 5—LX-1524
i —— Broder ssw ly
Hh rser-3i8/018s3-q4
i : emait

ian WN dan
ory

vt Tetice



peueerepestenon

spacey

The records of this Agoncy reveal that in August 1961, Castor
GOMEZ Prado was a socrotary with the Cuban delegation to the

ECOSOC Conference in Montevideo.

A report dated 2 ‘Fobruary 196:
- Castor GOMEZ Prado attended a

Punta del Este

SECRET
“ NO FOREIGN DISSEM

é

stated that. in. January ‘1962,

