# 104-10213-10012

## Page 1

104-10213-10012.

SUBUECT : Flights from Mexico City to Havana on 22 lovember 1963

REFERENCE: 1. What is the total ClA information on the tho flights

from Mexico City to Havana?

2. What was done at the time to develop further information

on this matter?

3. Can further information be acquired on this matter now?

want

FINDINGS:

1. The Mexico Station records confirm only one flight from Mexico City

to Havana on 22 November 1963. This was the regularly scheduled Cubana

Airlines flight.

There were two reports of small aircraft flights (one

a twin engine flight to Mexico City connecting with Cubana for onward

transportation to Havana of a mysterious passenger; and the other a flight

type passengers. Beyond the original reports (from sources of

undetermined reliability) there was nothing in the Mexico Station records

to substantiate that these flights occurred.

2. Facts substantiated by Mexico Station records: On 22 Novenber

1963 a Cubana Airlines plane from Havana arrived at the Mexico City Inter

national airport at 1620 hours - Mexico City tine and departed on a return

flight to Havana

at 2035 hours - Mexico City time.

It was on the ground in

Marico City for about four hourg which would be considered normal for servicing

for a turn-around flight carrying passengers in both directions.

This infor

mation was obtained from sensitive telephone taps in the process of routine

operating procedures on 22 November 1953.

3. Report not substantiated by liexico Station records: On 30 November

1963 CIA Headquarters cabled Mexico City that a report had been received

that the 22 November 1963 Cubana departure had been delayed five hours from

1700 to 2200 hours awaiting an important passanger who arrived at the lexico

City airport in a private twin motor aircraft at 2130 hours Mexico tire.

Passenger transferred directly to Cubana plane without going through customs

or inmigration and travelled in pilot's cabin to Havana.

was passed to the Mexican officials on 2 December 1963 for investigation.

There is no record of a reply.

We know from independent infomation in

paragraph two above that some parts of this report are in error. The Cubana

flight was not delayed for five hours. It had departed for Havana from

Mexico City at 2035 hours which would be at least an hour before the twin

motor aircraft was alleged to have arrived in Mexico City. The source's

name is on the manifest as a passenger from Mexico City to Havana but the

tine supplied by him does not agree sith other information considered reliable.

---

## Page 2

the Moxican Gorement aisured the U.S Inussador that it as taling

stops to control travellers and closed the lorder with the U.S. for

several hours imeliately aiter the assissination.

3/

A flight of a

prisate aircrait such as this is possible but it is unlikely that such

inusual activity as this kould have gone unnoticed by the ilerico Station

team of observers nio reporied on Cubilla Airlines flights.

1. Report not substantiated by Mexico Station records: On 2 November

1961 the Hamburg Base reported that a source in Cuba clainad to have seen

an aircraft with "lexican markings discharge passengers at the lavana aigort

at 1700 hours on 22 November 1963.

The source reported that the tro passen-

gers "vere gangsters" and that "the plune had just come from Dallas, v13

Tijuana (shere

it sas forced to land because of engine trouble) and

City."

This infornation was sent to the FBI on 23 December 196: for

investigation.

6/ The FBI responded on 51 December 1964 that Tijuana

sould have been an unlikeix place for a "forced larding" on a flight froa

las to Havana. Their office was making no further inquiries in Lie

absence of additional details fron CIA.

They suggested that ClA corsluct

m investigation in Tijuana.

7/ (Tijuana is almost the sane distance Erc

mullas tiving

liest as ilavana hould be flying Southeast or Mexico City :ould

be flying South.)

The Mexico Station had no

investigativ e assets in the

Tijuana area.

The inforation was a year old when received and rich too

vague for retroactive checking of records.

The untested source nho had

provided the report died before he could be questioned for additional

The SSC l report page 103 further complicates travel data by the

listing of the Cubana Virlines flight delay from "6 p.n. until 1l p.m."

The sriters of this report tere probably trying to transpose the departure

time to the equivalent of Eastem tine.

lecenber 1963 rhich is probably a mistaken reference to the cable which

ยง dated 30 Movenber 1963. 2/ The Mexico Station file copy ot this caul:

arried the date of 1 December 1965 which is the date it was reccied. 2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

i

1 47

SOURCES:

1/

4

Transcripts froz Cuban Encassy ard Cubana Airlines conversations

in 2z over, and de discussing arrial tire of flieht. it's deprono

in arriving, and departure.

tap of four

separate Cuban Enbassy lines. Snary translations are

in English fron the Spanish langage transcript.

These are not verbatin

transcripts.

The Spanish text is the original monitor's interpretatior

of the conversation.

The English

text is an interpretation of the

monitor's interpretation.

(File: 50-9-12 Folder 23, 22 Novenber 1965

Job 64-518/84, Space 307389.)

Cable from CLA to Nexico City Station DIR 36051 dated 30 November 1963.

(File:201-289243)

Nexico City Station file copy of DIR S6054 which is

dated 1 December 1963, the date of receipt. (201-289248).

Extract of

the infomation passed to the Mexican Governnent officials for a check

on this aircraft, dated 2 December 1963. (File: 201-289248).

Cable from U.S. Enbassy, Mexico City, Ambassador Thomas C. Jann,

dated 22 novenber 1963, Control 269, SECSTATE 1177, advising the

Departnent of State that the l'exican Government had closed the border

with the U.S. for all travellers not personally and well-incin to the

Mexican Government. (File: Mexico Station File P-8593).

LIFIRE surveillance team. Their case officer at that time was Robert

H. Feldmann of LA Division.

EGGA-3171 dated 2 November 1964, a dispatch fron Hamburg Base

reported inforsation from Professor [

Tho had receired

it a year earlier from a Cuban colleague. (AULOW Job #66-602/61,

File: 19-6-79/3, volume 1).

F334=13244 dated 30 Decenber 1961

transmitted to Verico City Station a copy of the CSCI-316/02515-64

which had been sent to the FBI on 23 December 1967. (201-322247).

CSCI-316/02545-67 dated 23 December 1964 (201-322247).

BI memorandum dated 31 December 196* DBA-945#, Subject: Lee Harve

SWALD responding to CSCI-516/G2515-64 (201-322247)

inst an

---

