# 104-10076-10252

## Page 1

104-10076-10252

144

SECRET

POUTING

6:.

DIRECTOR

3

ROME UMWAVE

ACTION:

0/001,200P, ADOP, 500 6

CA/PCO,

CoDs/L,

cA/o

ch,

coos 1,

CA/PROP,

10, wE 4

WH 7,.00/1

10/01 2, AD/NC

TOCS

SCORED 1O202

DIR CITE WAVE 8764

DEC 18 0618Z 63

FIN

76975

RETURNTO CIA

INTEE TYPIC

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO.

DURING 7 DEC DEBRIEFING IN WAVE AREAS

PARAS 1 FROM VICENTINA ANTUNA, AUNT OF AME WIFE. PARA 2 AND

4 BASED ON INFO OBTAINED

WIFE WHEN SHE APPROACHED HUSSANG

VICENTINE ANTUNA, FRANCISCO CARONE ON FOI LOWING DAY. NO FURTHER:

INFORMATION CAN BE DEVELOPED AT THIS TIME. RID: NO INDEXA

FILED

1000282.

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: RUMORS THAT ERNESTO "CHE" (GUEVARA) SERNA /S UNDER HOUSE ARNEL

DOI 8434 NOV 63

I CONENTI

OISDINATION OF THE ATTACIE

L) POUTION OF THIS CALLE HAS EX

GEE CUTSIDE THE AGENCY PERCEN

AN INE ACTION UNIR

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PrIORITY

RELEASINO TO:

DATE OISTRIBUTED

BASCO OH

LIAISONI

RALADE

SO CRE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ROUTIN

SHE CORNE

TO:

FROM:

INFO:

PAGEATWO

5975

PADA

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (7 DEC 63)

UFG 4222

SCURCE: A TRAINED OBSERVER OF PROVEN RELIABILITY WHO IS A MEMBOR OR

THE WESTERN DIPLOMATIE COMMUNITY IN CUBA. THE INFORMATION IN PARA

WAS OBTAINED FROM AN OLD TIME CUBAN COMMUNIST HOLDING A MINOR CUSA

GOVERNMENT JOB, AND THE INFORMATION IN PARAS 2 AND 4 WAS OBTAINED

FROM A CLOSE RELATIVE OF THE SOURCE IN PARA 14

NO COMMENTO

TOC

PRECEDENCE

PIORITY

RELEASINO MO

DATE DITRIEATEO

BASEO die

SECRETS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ELEC RAMIINFORMATTON REPORT ILEGRAM

CENTRAL DITILLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

CLAIRE TION - OSMMINATION CONFIOLE

COUNTE

"SUNJECT

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTIR

PRECEDENCE

MERENCES

DATE OF

INFO

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

IN

76975

TED

FTELD REPORT NO

DEFMITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT

AS OF 30 NOVEMBER 1963, ERNESTO "CHE" (GUEVARA) SEANA WAS

ALLEGED TO BE UNDER HOUSE ARREST BECAUSE OF POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT

AN ANTI-CASTRO PLOT IN WHICH OMAR (FERNANDEZ) CAIZARES WAS

ALSO SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED. FERNANDEZ IS SAID TO HAVE

BEEN REMOVED FROM THE MINISTERSHTP OF TRANSPORTATION BECAUSE OF

THIS INVOLVEMENT.

2. FIDEL CASTRO RUZ MAY DE ATTEMPTING TO EJECT GUEVARA FROM:

CUBA UNDER SOME SUITABLE PRETEXT: ONCE THIS IS ACCOMPLISHED CASTRO

INTENDS TO CHARGE GUÉVARA AND FERNANDEZ, AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE

GOVERNMENT OF CUBA WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CUBAN ECONOMIC

SECRET

CLASSIRICATON - OISSEMIMATION CONIEOiS

MAy?

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAN

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CASSARAT

NATION CONTROLS

SECRET

TOCS

IN

PAG

176975

FA MURES.

(1i3

DESPITE THIS-PLANNLO EXPOSURE THE REAL REASON GERANO IN IS

S/CELIEVED TO DE. GUEVARA IS PARTICIPA)

IN ASLO

OVERTHROW CASTRO.

TACLO COMMENT BECAUSE OF THE CLOSE PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP

BETWEEN THE SOURCE OF THE INFORMATION IN PARAGRAPH I AND THE SOURCE

OF THE INFORMATION IN PARAS 2 AND 4, THIS INFORMATION CANNOT GE

CONSIDERED CONFIRMATORY. THERE MAVE BLEN VARIOUS SCAITERED REPORTS

FROM A VARICTY NE SOURCES WHICH HAVE INDICATED DISAGRÉÉMENTS AMONG

THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HIERARCHY. THERE SEEMS TO BE SOME SUPPORT FOR

A THEORY THAT FIDEL CASTRO IS ONCE AGAIN TRYING TO PUAGE THE

HIERARCHY OF OLO LINE COMMUNISTS. THE EXPULSION OF JUAN. (MARINELLO"

VIRAURETTA FROM HIS POSITION AS RECTOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF HABANA

IS VIEWED IN SOME QUARTERS AS AN INDICATION OF SUCH A PURGES 117 HAS

ALSO BEEN INTIMATED THAT FIDEL CASTRO WILL TRY TO GET RID OF SUER PART

STALWARTS AS BLAS ROCA ANO LAZARO PENA IN ACTIONS SIMILAR TO THE

ANDAL ESCALANTE TAURO THERE WAS ONS RUMOR TO THE EFFECT

THAT LUEL LADIO HIMSELE HAD KEGENILE MESDILU IME SOVIST UNION,

THIS RUMOR WAS STRENGHTENED BY THE FACT THAT NEITHER FIDEL NOR RAU

ATTENDO THE SOVIET EMBASSI PARTY FOR THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE ORLAT

OCTOBER REVOLUTION, AND THAT FIDEL HAS NOT BEEN MARING ASPEARANCES OR

MEETING PEOPLE, WHERE NORMALLY HE WOULD BE THE GREETER, ONE REPORTING

SOURCE FROM CULA ALSO INDICATED THAT HAD TIDEL SLEN IN CUBA ME.

RATHER

CLASSICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

20

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CLASSIFCATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

Whem Pilled D

TDCS

IN 70757

PAGE

JOY RAUL WOULD, HAVE MADE THE SPEECH ANNOUNGING THE UNIVERSAL

MILITARY SERVICE REGULATIONO

UNTIL SUCH TIME AS FURTHER CLARISIN

UNFORMATION IS RECCIVED IT WOULD BE WELL TO TREAT THE INFORMATEOI

ON THE POSSIOLE HOUSE ARPEST OF GUEVARA AS A MERE RUMOR.

4: THE COUP OF PERSONAL TIES IN THE GOVERNMENT OF CUBA WHO ARD

PLANNING THE OVERTHROW OF CASTRO ARE KNOWN AS "LOS JURAMENTADOS"

5- FIELD COMMENT: LOS URAMENTADOS IS BELIEVED TO SE AN

ORGANIZATION WHICH NUMBERS AMONG ITS MEMEERS FORMER MEMBERS OF T

26 JULY MOVEMENT. SOME FORMER CUBAN MILITARY OFFICERS WHO ARE

NOW IN EXILE CLAIM MEMBERSHIP IN THIS ORGANIZATION.

THERE 13.10

INFORMATION RELATIVE TO THE EXISTENCE OF A LOS JURAMENTADOS

ORGANIZATION WITHIN CUBA®

6. FIELD DISSEMS NONE

EnD OF MEsSAGE

BACARCATION - DIRE

BINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

20281

2090.

---

