104-10195-10257

OC uNctassiFieo =) PEN CONF’ “"NTIAL (1 secrer
ROUTING” AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT, [Opronct)

- ACTION COPY” mT ive 8149-6 #10

Nov 25 1963
eu =o Ceittendienrartncy conte, anim au connate hon chon
romenced TALS Draw @ line geroes column etter each comment.)
Ths CALL BA ;

Head BY hors OF
feof ee ‘i

+ DUP CF

01 5793

?

pes”
fo? NAPS WwotTH

Mmentinwee AT STALE

TA erriNé.— TI How
Now thséCUh€
PERMA T DEAL Les
ALG :

610 “tansee C) secret =) CONFIDENTIAL, «CJ USMY =]: UNCLASSIFIED


rege : =

piste:
: CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ACTION: : oe
ae 25 NOV 63
INFO: Fite:
fone | a TRESS REPEC
oral aeearens THE
ALi Type | esanaaz pps
ah . INFOS CITE
WEX DIR MEKY

1. ODFOAM ADVISED WAVE THAT PHONE CALL FROM on ee SAN ANTONIO
abn 1 MEXICO CITY (PHONE 185334) TO OR. EMILIO} Phe: Prontuowno,

—————
ty WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER S3~ CO! Geert WAS IN SPANISH

MIAD

AND GIST OF IT IS3 PLAN OF CASTRO CARRIED FORWARD, BORBY IS NEXTe

SOON THE ATOMIC BOMPS WILL RAIN AND THEY WIL]. NOT KNOW FROM WHERE.
2. WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS HE SUBJECT 201-3123046

NO RECORD CARACA. HOWEVER, -ANOT-2 ADVISED CABACA IS PROBABLY JOSE

SAINZ, DPOR CIRCA 1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CUBAs

Y RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3000 AND HAS SAME PHONE
NOe PARA 1 ADOVE. HE IS NOW OCCUPIED WITH ORTAINING MEXICAN VISAS
FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CURA. HE IS PRONOUNCED BATISTIANO
AND RIGHTIST WITH TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN U.S. AND HEADS THE
ALIANZA PARA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICA.

3. LOCAL ODFOAH BEING INFORMED RE PARA 2 INFOs

25/23352

