# 104-10227-10120

## Page 1

- 104-10227-10120

18.149

CONF

8011

SAHR41941

INWAVE

DIRE UPAXI SIDELL DIRECTOR

C/BELL 8

21Ar,1 03 402

DE1, 0/061, 00/9 2, 6S, ASiN/A, 6/583 2, MAR, i 50:2

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATI

WAVE

BOUTINT

We 99275

OUT98274

Cil OXXX BABE DIR

36128

itio

RYBAT/IMZIP

1. THE FOLLOWING ACTION WILL BE TAKEN BY WAVE. IN

REGARD TO RECRUITMINT AND MOVEMENT OF RECRUITS TO IRNO

AREAS AND POSSILE RECEPTION OF SHIPS AND PERSONNEL RETURNING

FROM ACTION AREAS

• A ALL AUBARK SPONSORED RECRUITING ANO

MOVEMENT OF RECRUITS WILL DISCONTINUE FOR

PRESENT.

& ALL RECRUITS NOW IN HOLDING WILL BE

RELEASED, THIY WILL BE GIVEN $100 EACH AND

THOSE FROM OUT OF TOWN WILL RECEIVE RETURN

TICKETE MOTHER HOMES DISCONNUE DIANO RESTINEA

Finstery

HOLDING AREAS WILL BE CLEANED OUT 40

RECLIVE RETURNEES IF NECESSARY.

D. ALL MATERIAL AT IMBAR WILL BE RETURNED TO

MALING DEDICE

SECRET

AUIRINTICATINO OOPICA

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Ado.

---

## Page 2

174-00000

21.

DIRECTOR

INDO :

10

DEPENDED

BOUTTE

OUTYUR 4

36128

34:25

JATIG PRIOR TO 1800 HOURS 23 APRIL EY CADES TO

RECEIVE MATERIEL FROM RETUNNING SHIPS

E. ALL UNNICESSARY SHIPS OR BOATS WILL BE

MOVED FROM IMBAR WHARE TO INSURI MEXIHUM SECURITY

IT NECLESARY TO OFFLOAD IBCOPS CA MATIRIEL

(DO NOT DISTURB OIL COMPANY STIPFETC;

2. SANTA ANNA WITH MOTORMS ARI DIYESTED TO

1. SCHEDULI OF OTHER SHIPST O FOLIOW.

IND OF MESSAGE

by Distilome

C/WH/4

ARDM. BISSELL R

ANIMO ON 61 DDIP

SECRET

•ERE CANNO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSLINE ORACE S PROMIRITEDR

Copy Alo

---

