# 104-10187-10113

## Page 1

104-10187-10113

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIES MESSAGE

•SECRET

COPIES 3".

REPAdOUCTION PAONIBITED

f*Om

SAN MILIATE

INO

iott

SECRET 3022102

DIP. CITE SALV 5312

WHOIV

C V80

SILENN REjECTOR

30 SERGIN@ 4511

REFS A. SALU 5323 (IN83009) *

3. DIR 53380

CIA OFFICER

CUBINPEFCCTOR

PALTON

1o

REE AND

ONCE FACT ALONE ANC ONCE TOJETHER SAW

MORNING 30 SEPTENSER.

#DENIED XNOWING

ANYTHING ABOUT CUSAN INTEL, AND SEGGED FOR RELEASE AND EXILE TO START

LIFE ANEW.

?. " OBTAINING TRUTH FROM

DALTON

BED FR: BE TINE CONSUNING. HE FULLY

ANARE PROOFS AGAINST HIM BUT PROSELY HOPES POLITICAL PRESSURE WILL FORCE

RELEASE AND PROSASLY FEARS ADMISSION OF NIS COXPLICITY WILL NOT HELP

HIMA SALV COVE MUST CONVINCE HIM HE WRONG DI SOTH COUNTS.. HE OF

DUBIOUS VALUE INSOFAR AS CONTRIBUTING NEW INSE ASOUT PAST ACTIVITIES

..OF CUBAN INTEL OR PCES BUT OF CONSIDERABLE INTEFSST AS AGENT IF HE

CAN' ZE TARCETTED AGAINST CUSAN INTEL OR PCES. IF RELEASED WOULD BE

CUBAN DEFECTOR

DEFINITE OBSTACLE TO FURTHER OPS AGINST ENSERTARGETS. IF ME SHOULD

. DOUBLED, HIS IMPRISONTENT WOLLO COVER RECRUITSENT AND WOULD TEND TO

-*HANCE HIS VALUE, PROSABLY WOLLO SE MOST USEFUL OUTSIDE SALV

I'CLUDING MEXI AND CUBA.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

..autrad a fan

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 21: 11 PAGER=

3. AS MATTERS STAND MOST IMPORTANT TO PROTECT

CURIN POLDO OF PREAT RECHISE.

THIS OP COULD DE AFFECTED ADUSOSELY

SY SHIEGO OF NEIS ABOUT CUBAN EFFORTS ON SCHALE CEC

B TO EPECT

RECRUITVENTS. ESCAUSE OF VALUE OF SUSANTO FRETER FOR PRESENT NOT

TO PROCED AGAINST OTHERS UHO RECEIVES INTEL TRAININGO AFTER CUSANDONED

IS PPODUCING AND AFTER PRUDENT INTESVAL A

SlaN CAN PROCEED WITH

RECPUITVENT EFFONG AGAINST OTHERSE

724

DEPENDING ON ISVELOPMENTS.-

A. PROCESDING WITH ARREST OF GUERRILLEROS TRAINED IN CUEA PROBABLY

CUEAN PETECTOR

WOULD BE DENSFICIAL AS LONG AS NOT ATTRIPUTED TO M

• SOME OF THOSE DETAINED MIGHT BE DEUELES

AND TARGETTED AGAINST GUERRILLA GICUPS OR POES.

3. APPRECIATE PER B TO WHICH WILL REPLY AFTER DISCUSSING FURTHER

PROSPECTS AND GOUT INTENTIONS WITH

J24

SECRET.

SECRET

z/|V

---

