# 104-10163-10068

## Page 1

104-10163-10068

• 99999

I LINCLASSIFIES

SUBJECT: (Ophanal)

IMERNAL

USE OMLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ANCIATTER/1

NO.

DATE

17 July 1961

WE/./Security

room moder, al

104 00 deton

DATE

SPICERS

MINALS

÷1.

ARCHIVED

PORWARDED

18 JUL 1961

318 JUL 1961

I. I. Dav1s

Chief, WH/L

2.

• 2.

0C/WH/4

414/4/F1-c'psiene

awa

Copy detached by Office of C/WHA

tet amba

can prent this

& 7701660

RETURN TO CIA

Beckground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

17 July 1961

MWTORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/L

SUBJECT

8 BARKER, Bernard I.

(201-251639)

1.

The Subject, an operational asset of both Havana station.

and JIE, is currently in the Washington, D.C. arez at the

suggestion

of Ir. Howard HUNT, In an effort to resolve his citi--

cenship status. He was Interviewed by a representative of

WH/L/SO on 15 July 1761 at the Shoreham Hotel to develop all

available background information concerning his loss of citizen

ship and previous stops taken to restore it.

2o BARKER was born 17 Varch 1917 at Havana, Cuba of a

native-born U.S. father and a Cuban mothere His birth was recorded

at the U.S. Embasny and he was recognized as having acquired U.s.

estizenship by birth through the citizenship of his father. Je

traveled, not on a U.3. passport, but on an identity card proclairing

his U.3. citizenship, lurinz lorld War II, he entered the U-3.

Any 11r Corps,

sas snot down on his 12th mission over derary

und was a prisoner of var for 16 months. He was honorably separate

as a Captain®

3o In 1750, along with several Caban-born, Ves, eltizens who

were war veterans, he entered the Cuban police force, where his

bilingual abilities soon brought him advancemente. He sas, at this

time, in contact with Mr. SPEAlS, the FoI representative at t

merican Embassy in Favana, and also worked closely with be

Trasury representative in breaking up two narcoties rings plyin

Betison Forida ent Cabs,

"o seared as escort for hrs. 130%6% and

Margaret on their visit io Suba, for which he receired - shite. i

House commendation.

Lo In BARKER's opinion, ho became the object of personal

spite on the part of an unnamed Embassy staff member, who took

action to revoke his eitizenship status based on his membership in

the Cuban polico. In en sifort to rectify his plight, Kr. Staa23,

P6B Embassy #BI reprosentative, sont him to Dr. Mario IZD, #

Leading lavara attorney, to prepare the case for a plen to ragal

SFOtET

891-251669

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAMI

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1999

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

oftizenship. According to BANKER's recollection, this occured

In 1953. Dr. LAZO compiled a formidable file on the Subtect

and was in communiestion with a Washington, D.C. legal firm,

which BIRKER dimly recalls as that of Edward Bennott WILITAIS,

who was to handle the case locally.

duced in the 83rd Congress by Congressnan WILLIANS c? New Jersey

to restore the Subject's citizenship, but BARKER does not know

why no action was taken on the bill.

At the time, he was in

financial diffleulties and took a job as a tractor driver out

mide Havana

for about & months, in which period he had no contact

with Dr. IMZO, who, as BARKER believes, interpreted his failure

to apposr in the office as a lack of interest in pressing the case

to a successful conclusion.

5. BARKER knows that Dr. LAZO and WILLIAMS had compiled a

very lengthy and documented file on his background, Including bis

alitary record and awards from the Army Alr Corps.

Currently,

BARKER 1s traveling on a Cuban passport and is in the U.S. as an

"Sp" parolod to Bernie REICHARDI.

6. The Subjees pointed out that Dr. Marlo IA20 entered the

U.Se about a wonth ago and is now in the Washington area; he

believes

is in contact with him. He knows Dr. LAZO 13

familiar with all' details of his case and could confira the

Identity of the rashington attorney who handled the litigation

10na11y. BARKER recalls visiting the attorney's office in last

Ington on one occasion, and Bennet WILI IANS was the nane he

swoalled. He believed the lawyer was involved In the Scantor

HoCarthy hearings.

Based on the above information, the following recommenc

adlous ara nda:

n3

be requested to ascartain from Dr.

Mario LAZO the same of the Washington law firm which hordiel

Subject's case in 1953, and the reamon for the failung of the

special b1ll.

SECRET

801-251689

4/80.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEGRET

-3

upt sampan

will Sexurity

SECRET

FiSES 680

---

