# 104-10165-10075

## Page 1

104-10165-10075

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA ECADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

CHARIES

CLEMARD -TOSAP

201-1: 352022

VOL. HI

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: TMIRI ABENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

10340

DATE

RETURNED

281V678

L8 DEC

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SEE LICHIENEEL

BETA UCHTENFELS

SUREL BRADY

S. BRADY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

Clemard Joseph CHARLES

Vol: III

.7

---

## Page 2

test.

Arent

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

CHARIES, CLEMAND TOSEPH

20/- 1:352021

VOL. H

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

Clemard Joseph CHARLES

Vol.

• III

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

MIRI ABENCY ASCUMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

10180

DATE

RETURNED

/le 14873/4 Quix To

291678

L8 DEC

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

BETTe LICHTEUFELS

SUREL BRADY

S. BRADY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

3ch picatuifels..

NO DOCUMENTS MAX

BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Political Prisoner

in Hospital

Clémart Joseph Charles w25 taken

from the Sitional Peritentiary in Port

au-Prince to Haiti's General Hospital.

The former Duvalier tanker has been

jailed since IS'l "for political reasons.""

No proper trial was held.

Mr. Curles is suffering from an

acute liver infection and the phisi

cians attending him hare warned that

he will die unless he's allowed to tra

vel abroad for special treatment.

This isn't the first time Mr. Char

les was taken from his cell to a bos

pital. Last year he was rushed to

Haiti's militury hospital for treament

of the same disease.

Ars. Carles has been allowed to

visit her busband.

This is the first time the Duralier

regime has acted half humancly with 2

political prisoner. It's been pointed

out that Marie-Denise Duvalier Domi-

nique, a friend of 3lr. Charles, has

often interceded for him.

@ Arny chief-of-stail Jean-Baptis-

te Hilzire will soon be replaced,

say

military sources in Port-au-Prince.

His likely replacement? Co. Roger

Sto Alvais.

On a lighter note, the General ran

for cover on September 22 while there

was a revier on the Palace grounds

to commemorate Duvalier's "election"

in 1957. Accidentally the loaded auto

matie weepen of a miitaman seat off

Many offcials, General Hilaire amon

them, scrambled for protection, Jean

Claude, his mother and their body

guard Geseral Gracia Jacques were

trembling, but they kept standing, says

i@- source that was standing close to

]them.

201 357024

4f-11 Dex, 7y

Chiraid CHAC LES

501

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Ingelligence Informicion Report

ARING SOUC

INSITIE INTELLICESCI: SOURCES AND METHODS ATOLE

Eared a trade i en at to moral Dolonite Scradio of 60. 1453 Remain comino S 2 .

DIMECICHATE CE

OPERATIONE

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATEN REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVAIUATED INTELLGENCE

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

PAGE 1 DE 1 PAGES

18 October 1974

COUNTrY Haiti

DOI

Early October 1974

Transfer of Political Prisoner Clemard Joseph Charles to

Port-au-Prince General Hospital.

the commercind rose alta sho has been hend policican

former president of

prisoner since April 1970 on charges of plotting azainst the

government, was recently transferred fron jail

to the general

hospital in Port-au-Prince. Charles is said to be dying

of

cirrhosis of the liver and

was transferred to the hospital on

orders of Madame Sirone Ovide

Duvalier, mother of

Haitian President Jean Claude Duvalier.

2.

Doctors recormended that Charles be sent abroad for

proper

medical treatnent but Mine. Duvalier authori-ed his

to the local hospital.

transfer on this occurred only after

relatives,

Minister of Interior and

Defense Paul Blanchet told the President and his

mother

that he would refuse to become involved in this case

and would

not sign

any papers required of hin as Minister

of Interior certifyiag that Charles had died in prison.

Relatives of Charles still intend to press for his removal from

the country.

30

5

3

SECRET

OCT FBIT

Ces He Field Diegon

ine me final paragranti

CLASSIELED

3X 010116

AWER

LA CARCHAS

LA/PAR

OBJ:KID

(BIAISON

OPS/INT 1, PS/EG 1, LA A (4) CI 2

TX - 1853

NP (EMEND- 1)

FIRLT -313/01268

HOEATH 468 94 8

RH: ER

VG: 1h

5) Chacle 201-352029

---

## Page 5

DEPT OF STATE TELEGPAM

PORT AU PRICE 1630

DATE: 28 SOIMEER 1972

CLASSIFICATTOT: SECRET

SUBJECI:

PRESIDENT GRANTS CIVAICE TO 89

ELISONERS

---

## Page 6

14-00000

• DF

IDOS ÉSFORVATI REPORT :

StCKET

' f9hors Fillerd ing

Oeita

wnrt

ExT.

NH/7/HAITI/REPORTS

4178/1528

DATE

21 MARCH 1972

CONh

WH-20

6 3:

ROJTING

H/78

. CA. 5,. , CA/ PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC-2, CS/DO,

FR-1, PI 5, IN, ELB-6, DCI. DDP. ADDP, CS/RP

DATE DISTRIBUTED

24 SIARCH 1972

DESSEMINATION

UR/REGNI

LE/INTEL 2 IE/BC/R,2

WE/ RR

LEFIR / 2 C3/INT1

KH/EL

LiHiT'OR 21

WI'CA

BE'L

12: 65/341

1774 201803N 2

REQUISTED

OF

STATE

AINEY

HANDUNG INSTRUCTIONS

RECOMEND EXO

PRECEDENCE

XI ROUTINE

BASED ON (8LD. NT. P8OS)

TX-1534

EVJEND

(ETDEND-1)

LIAISON:

MAVY

Linz eha

AJ#

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

ont $68

BASIC DOCUVENT NOT

MADE AVAILAELE DOI

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED

FOR

SHOW IW

W

DiSSEN LICTIICALLY

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB

7/ g*!|

LISIB PERSONAL ATTN

ZIWAHOO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR LA:SON

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CCORDINATINS OFFICER(S)

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

(wthom Fillnd an)

19 1K-2 usa parvoas toiticion

COPY NO.

Tele: 201-357829

---

## Page 7

• ROUTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

IN

PAGE I OF 4 PAGES

STATE/WER DRA MMCCIME ISECDEN JES ARMY NAVY AN CRANACE NIC IRSA SDO ONE CIS-

FBI, EXO, DDI

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REFORT, NOT FINALIY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

DIRECTORATE OF

PLANS

This seria conside int

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

SECRET

COUNTRY HAITI

DAST 24 MARCH 1972

SUBJECT FURTHER EFFORTS BY THE GOVERAYENT OF HAITI TO BRING ABOUT

RAPPROCHEMENT KITH HAITIAN EXILES •

I.. ON APPROXIMATELY 20 MARCH 197Z LUCKNER CAMBRONNE,

HAITIAN MINISTER OF INTERIOR AND NATIONAL DEFENSE, TELEPHONED

FERMIN JOSEPH, AN OFFICIAL OF THE NEN YORK-BASED, HAITIAN

EXILE NEWSPAPER "HAITI OBSERVATEUR," AND TOLD JOSEPH THAT HE KAS

DISAPPOINTED AT THE

ANTI-GOVERNMENT OF HAITI (GOH). STANCE

TAKEN BY THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUP" IN GENERAL AND JOSEPH IN PARTI-

CULAR IN THE 18 MARCH EDITION OF THE PAPER. CANBRONNE STATED

THAT HE HAD HOPED THAT HIS RECENT INVITATION TO ALL HAITIAN EXILES

TO RETURN TO HAITI, COUPLED WITH HIS PRIVATE DISCUSSION

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 8

IN

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

* SECRET NO FREIGH DISSEM

WITH JOSEPH, WOULD HAVE GIVEN THE FAPER CAUSE TO RE-EXAMINE ITS

POSITICN VIS-A-VIS THE GOH.

2. (HEADQUARTERS CONVENT: THE SAYE SOURCE REPORTED IN

THAT DURING A SEETING ON 16 LARCH 1972

BETVEEY THE 11O,

CAMBRONNE TOLD JCSEPH THE GOH CONSIDERED

THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR AND ITS SUPPORTERS TO BE THE ONLY OBSTACLE

TO THE GOH'S PLANS TO REUNITE ALL FAITIANS IS AN EFFORT TO BUILD

A NER, PROGRESSIVE NATION. AS A FIRSI STEP TO RAPPROCHEMENT,

CAMBROSE ASKED JOSEPH TO REALIGN EIYSELF KITH THE GOH AND RETURN

TO HAITI. IF JOSEPH ACCEPTED, CAMERONNE SAID, THE GOH WOULD BE

MILLINS TO NAME HIM TO PHATEVER CFFICIAL POSITION HE DESIRED EITHER

INSIDE HAITI OR ABROAD.)

3.. JOSEPH REPLIED THAT BEFORE HE OR THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR"

COULD GIVE ANY

THOUGHT TO SOFTENING THEIR POSITIONS ON THE GOH,

THE GOH NOULD HAYE TO SHOW ITS GOCD INTENTIONS THROUGH DEEDS PATHER

THAN MERE PROMISES. CAMBRONNE THEN INVITED THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR"

TO SEND A TEAN OF REPORTERS TO HAITI TO SEE FOR THENSELVES THE

CHANGES WHICH WERE BEING BROUGHT ASOUT BY THE REGINE OF PRESIDENT

JEAN-CLAUDE DUVALIER. BEFORE SUCH A TRIP COULD BE HADE,

JOSEPH SAID, POLITICAL PRISONERS MOULD HAVE TO BE RELEASED. ALSO,

SECRET -

1c dots leg9511

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(83190m 57717

5

3

---

## Page 9

14-00000

PAGE

3 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

(e'arrifeatios)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

KITEST COUNTING

THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR" WOULD INSIST THAT ANY SUCH TEAY OF REPORTERS

WOULD HAVE TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY NENSHEN FROM OTHER NATIONS WHO

WOULD

ACT AS GUARDS AGAINST ANY PRESSURE THE GOH HIGHT APPLY AGAINST THE

HAITIAN REPORTERS.

4. JOSEPH ASKED CAMBRONNE KHETHER THE GOH INDEED INTENDED TO

RELEASE SUCH POLITICAL PRISONERS AS HUBERT LEG ROS, CLEMARD

JOSEPH CHARLES,

AND COL. KESNER BLAIN

• AS CAMBRONNE

HAD INTINATED DURING HIS 15 MARCH PRESS CONFERENCE. TO THIS

CAMBRONE MPLIED THAT NE COSSIDERED LEGROS TO BE A VERY DANGEROUS

MAN AND THAT HE HAD NO INTENTION OF EVER RELEASING HIM. (HEAD-

QUARTERS COMMENT: LEGROS, A LANTER AND SELF-PROCLAINED COMMUNIST,

WAS ARRESTED IN MAY 1970 AFTER HAVING BEEN SOUGHT BY HAITIAN

AUTHORITIES FOR SEVERAL YEARS. CHARLES, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE

CONMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, AND BLAIN, FORMER COSMANDANT OF THE

QUARTER ASTER CORPS, WERE ARRESTED IN APRIL 1970 FOR PLOTTING

• AGAINST THE GOH.)

5. CAMBRONNE REITERATED THAT HE BELIEVED THE "HAÏTI

OBSERVATEUR" POSED THE NUMEER ONE THREAT TO THE GOH'S PLANS TO

REUNITE ALL HAITIANS. CAMBRONNE ADDED, HOWEVER, THAT THE GOH

ALSO BELIEVED GEORGES R I G A UD, A LEADER OF THE HAITIAN

• SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 10

PAGE 4 Of

4PAGES

.. SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM.

(diggers

controls)

RESISTANCE MOVENENT IN MONTREAL, AND A PROFESSOR RENE SAINT-

LOUIS,

WHO IS ALSO LOCATED IN CANADA, TO BE IMPORTANT ENEMIES

OF THE GOH.

MAR 2 9

C

te to a en

SECRET •

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 11

14-00000

EVANCE COPY

• SBOTTED

SECRET

PEPROOUCTION

PEES COPY PROMIBITED

Man 17 23 1 4271

AT:

HTP 1469

DISSEN BY -

ACTION UNIT

W113

RETION NO.

544

FILE. VI. AOPP.

63/00. 88.

5,

DOP, CA 3, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, DO 4, EUR 5, SOD 3.

SECRET 171719Z MAR 71

DIRECIOR INFO

INTEL

SUPDAIA: EVLEMOE/2 FROM EVLEMON/IA FROM SUBJ

7355L

FILED$

171719Z

NO INDEX. FILE:

174e8:289539

35-9-11°

100.19

201357,029

SECRET

elemard Friph Charl.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

Irtelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE

Đ8 289539

PAGE 1.OF " PAGES

STATERNA BLA BINOLINE SENR AS ANNY MATY AI CHAMPIDI ARE MESA SDO COR CES

ECTORATE FOl

PLANS

SECRET

COULIRY

NO FORE!ON DISSE

THIS IS AN INFORMATON ESPOIT, NOI FMALLY EVALJATED INTELIGENCE

DEST_17 ME3CH 1971

"SUBJECT

"HAITI

: RESULTS OF THE INTEERIGATION OF ELIMARD JOSEFH

CHARLES AND SESSER ELAIS

IO ACCORDING IO SRIG. GES. CLAUDE BAYNCED, CHIEF

OF HAITIAN ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF, PRESIDENT FRAICOIS

.D U VALIER COMPLETED HIS PERSCHAL ISTERROGETICE OF

CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, FORMER FRESIDEST CF THE

CONMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, AID COL. KESSER BLAIN, FORRES

QUARTERRASTER OF THE HAITIAN AIRED FORCES, ON 15 MARCH 1971-

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

:.

---

## Page 13

IN 289539

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

(estant floustom)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

• REPORTED THAT

DUVALIER HAD SEEM BLAIN PRIVATELY ON 9 MARCH 1971 AND BLAIN

AND CHARLES TOGETHER OR 12 MARCH 1971. THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED

THAT DUVALIER HAD AGAIN SEES BLAIN AND CHARLES ON 15 MARCH 19710)

2. RAMOND SAID THAT, IS HIS INTERROGATICN OF CHARLES,

DUVALIER APPEARED PRIPARILY CONCERNED VITH DETERMINIBG IF

CHARLES HAD SERVED AS A FUNDING CHANNEL FROM AMERICAS BUSINESSMEN

TO THE HAITIAN CONSPIRATORS. IN THE COURSE OF THE ISTERACGATION,

DUVALIER SHOVED CHARLES A PHOTOCOPY OF A CASHIER'S CHECK FOR

$178,8E0 DRAVN IN CHARLES® MAKE• CHARLES ALLEGEDLY REPLIED THAT

HE HAD DEALINGS WITH KASY FOREIGERS AND HAITIANS. HE DEFIED

DUVALIER'S CHARGES SAYING THAI, IF HE HAD BEEN INVOLVED, IT

WOULD HAVE BEEN A PURELY HAITIAN AFFAIR AND THAI HE WOULD EOT

SULLY HAITI'S HOLOR BY SEEKING HELP FROM FOREIGERS•

30

ACCORDING TO RAYACED, BLAIS ALSO DENIED ANY FOREIGN

INVOLVEMENT. HOWEVER, HE SAID THAI ALL THE CABINET MEMBERS

HAD COSSPIRED WITH HIM AT ORE TIRE CR ANOTHER, EXCEPT FOR.

AURELE JOSEPH, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTERIOR AND NATIONAL

DEFEESE; MAX ANTOISE, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR SOCHAL AFFAIRS:.

AND ALRE DUBE, SECRETARY OF SIATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

---

## Page 14

IN. 289539

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

ND FOSFIGN DISSEM

(Bunem controll)

AFFAIRS. BLAIN ALSO IMPLICATED ABOUT ONE QUARTER OF THE

.. A9-IABi NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, INCLUDING SUCH PERSONS AS ULRICH

ST. - LOUIS, PRESIDENT OF THE ASSEMBLY AND DEPUTIES

LUCKNER CAMBRONNE, VICTOR LEVERS CONSTABI,

AND MME. MARCELLE AUGUSTIN. BLAIN ADDED THAT HE MAD

.: ALSO CONSPIRED WITH COL• BRETON

CLAUDE, COMMANDER OF

THE DESSALINES BATTALION, AND COL. FRED M. ARIY, INSPECIOR

GENERAL OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES. BLAIN SAID THAT, LONG

BEFORE APRIL 1970, CLAUDE HAD ALSO BEEN INVOLVED IN VARICUS

CONSPIRACIES WITH CLOVIS DESINOR , FORMER SECRETARY OF

STATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, LUCKNER CAMBROME,

AND THE LATE LEON BORDES, AND THAT THESE MEN HAD FORMED

•A. CLANDESTINE POLITICAL PARTY WITH DE INOR AS PRESIDENI.

A RAYMOND SAID THAT DUVALIER WAS CONTINUISG A SECRET

INVESTICATION OF THESE ADMISSIONS, PERIICULARLY IN RESPECT

TO POSSIBLE FOREIGN FINANCING OF THE PLOI. IN RAYMOND'S

OPINION, DUVALIER WILL TAKE NO ACTION UNTIL THE INVESTIGATION

• IS COMPLETE.

5 CONCERNING THE MILITARY TRIBUKAL WHICH WAS CONVENED

IN EARLY MARCH 1971, RAYMOND SAID. THAT THE TRIAL WAS SIRFLY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

---

## Page 15

EN

289539

PAGE 4 OF i PAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(clear Berton)

(lemen controla)

FOR THE SAXE OF FORM. THE SESTENCES HAVE ALREADY BEEN

DECIDED UPON, BUT THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THEM AWAITS WORD

FROM DUVALIER. THE TRIAL OF THE THREE DEFENDANTS CURRENTLY

. IN EXILE, ALPHONSE LAMES, CLEMENCEAU PROSPER,

.. AND GERARD LOIS EWU, IS SCHEDULED IO BE KELD ON

4:3 APRIL 1971•

6o FIELD DISSEM: STATE, DEFAIT, CINCSO, CILCLANI.

REPORI CLASS SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

LL AT 8M

SECRET

---

## Page 16

Intelligence Information Report

22222

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

THiS IS AN INFOENTON REPORT, LOOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELUGENCE

HIC TORATE O1

S-E-C-B-E-T:

COUNTRY HAITI

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

DATE DISTR.

28 AUGUST 1970

SUWECT PROSPECTIVE RELEASE OF REMAINING POLITICAL

PRISONERS ARRESTED IN APRIL 1970 FOR

ALLEGEDIY PLOTTING AGAINST GOVERNMENT

1. ACCORDING TO A HIGH-RANKING OFFICER IN THE PRESIDENTIAL

GUARD, THE THREE REMAINING POLITICAL PRISONERS ARRESTED IN

APRIL 1970 ON CHARGES OF ANTI-GOVERNENT PLOTTING, WILL BE

AMNESTIED ON 22 SEPTENBER 1970, THE ANNIVERSARY OF PRESIDENT

FRANCOIS DUVALIER'S ELECTION AS PRESIDENT FOR LIFE.

(HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

REPORTED THE RELEASE :

OF THE OTHER POLITICAL PRISONERS ARRESTED IN APRIL AND MAY 1970.)

THE PRISONERS TO BE RELEASED IN SEPTEMBER ARE COL. KESNER

BIA IN, FORMER QUARTERNASTER OF THE ARMED FORCES: CLEMARD

JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF

•&-E-C-R-E-T/NO FORTIGN DISSEN

ПТАТ

DIA

TARAT A

Ail

1! ASSA

CRS

(For Flold Distriben

CI/ICG

2 WIL PRIN

SALINI

CA/PROP

1 KH/SDOM

CH/R

(1) 4W/PACY (SINCSO) #

REP/ ANT LE

TOTAL IE 2, C1 4, FI 3, CA 3, WH6 (2), DO 1.

PORT

PRINCE 7103

HTP-1435

IN 131119)

EVLEMON

LEVLEYON-2

from EVLESON-17)

CS-311/07138-70

Mason. &

RR

ВЕВіЇ

chailies 201-357029

---

## Page 17

PAGE ?. OF 2 PAGES:

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

HAITI; AND EDMOND PIERRE-PAUL, FORNER CHIRP

PROSECUTOR OF THE HAITIAN SUPRENE COURT. ALL THREE MEN,

CURRENTLY CONFINED IN THE NATIONAL PENITENTIARY, ARB IN

POOR STATE OF HEALTI®

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, DEFATI, CINCSO, CINCLANT.

Alre

ott.

!?'.

i....

"""

t...*12

torari.

Graha!

---

## Page 18

Intelligence Information Report

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

DIBKETORATE OF

SECRET

COUNTIY BAITI

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOE FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORT NG

DATE DISTR 13 AUGUST 1970

SUBJECT RELEASE OF HAITIAN POLITICAL PRISONERS

1. AS OF 3 AUGUST 1970, FORTY OF THE POLITICAL PRISONERS

ARRESTED BETWEEN EARLY APRIL AND LATE MAY 1970 FOR ALLEGED

INVOLVEMENT IN THE ANTI-GOVERIMENT PLOTTING OF COL. RESNER

BI AIN, FORKER QUARTERMASTER OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES,

ARD COL. OCTAVE CA YARD, FORMER COLANDER OF THE HAITIAN

COAST GUARD, HAD BEEN RELEASED. BY Y AUGUST 1970, AN ADDITIONAL

NINETEEN PRISONERS WERE RELEASED; MAKING A TOTAL OF 59.

AMONG

THE PRISONERS RELEASED WERE FRITZ THE BAUD, FORMER

SECRETARY OF FINANCE; VOLVICK CA YARD, FORMER DEPUTY AND

BROTHER OF COL. CAYARD; MAX. PIER

RE -PAUL, FORMER

SECRE I/NO FOREIGN DISSEX

ARAT

MAVY

All

INSA

(Par Flald Diste

Goal paragrantai

CI/IC

CALINI

CA/PROP

ZAH

LITTACH

1738

WH/R 112

CINGSOL E

LAREP/LANT

TOTAL®

BY CABLE

- DEFERRED 666800

LE 2, CI 4, FI 3, CA 2, NH 6(3), DO 1.

7087.

UN 141314) HTP-1432

• EVLEMON

(TILESON-235R0N EVLENOS-17)"

, PRO

Charles: 201.357629

---

## Page 19

--143

PAGE 2 OF Z PAGES

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSE

DEPUTY; RAVEAU IS TIME, FORMER SECRETARY OF JUSTICE;

SUE. CLEARD JOSEPH CHARLES; ME. CLEJENCEAU

PROSPER AND HER DAUGETER MARYSE; AND ALL OF THE

DETECTIVES OF THE PORT AU PRINCE POLICE DEPARTIENT WHO HAD

BEEN ARREST2D.

2. AS OF 11 AUGUST 1970, THE OVLY PERSONS STILL BELIEVED

TO BE UNDER ARREST ARE CLINARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT

OF THE CUTERIN. BANK OF HAITI; COL. BLAIN; EDLOND PIERRE-

PAUL, FORNER CHIEF PROSECUTOR OF THE HAITIAN SUPREKE COURT;

AND A COUSIN OF CLEHENCEAU PROSPER. OF THE PERSONS ARRESTED

IN THIS CONNECTION, OSLY TO, CITE DO UGE AND LEON

BOB DES ARE DEAD. BOTH DIED AS A RESULT OF MISTREATIENT

WHILE IS PRISON.

3. (SOURCE CONDENT: SEVERAL OF THE FORNER PRISONERS,

INCHEDING THEZITO, SUE. PEOSPER, AND PIERRE-PALL, HAVE BEEN

SERT ON THE STREETS OF PORT AU PRINCE SINCE THEIR RELEASE.

ALL OF THE FORMER PRISONEES ENCOUNTERED THUS FAR HAVE EXPRESSED

ASTONISEUENT AT THEIR HAVING BEEN RELEASED AND ARE UNAELE TO

ACCOUNT FOR THE UNEXPECTEDLY LENIENT TREATMENT THEY RECEIVED.

ONE UNSUBSTARTIATED RUNOR CIRCULATING AROUND PORT AU PRINCE

HAS IT THAT THEIR RELEISE WAS THE RESULT OF PRESSURE ETERTED

ON THE HAITIAN GOVERNVENT BY THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN

STATES.)

4. FIEND DISSEY: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLANT.

SEC NETS LEGS DISS

---

## Page 20

DEPT OF STATE TEERAM

PORT AU PRINCE 9.?

DATE: 6 AUGUSE =9-0

CLASSIFICATIOS: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: RELEASE OF POLITICAL PRISONERS

DEPT OF STATE IDLEGRAM

PORT AU PRINCE E-:

DATE: 8 MAY 19.0

CLASSIFICATIO::

LEITED OFFICIAL USE

SUBJECT:

MEASLES TAKEN 3Y SO: AGAINST ALLEGED

CONSPIEATORS

DEPI OF STATE ISTEGRAM

PORT AU PFIS 3 546

DATE: 8 VA:Z370

CLASSIFICATION: UNCIASSIFLED

SUETECT:

SOME ESCATION ASSETS CHENARD JOSEFA

CHARLES

---

## Page 21

14-00000

FºaW 1923

USE PPLIOUS

EDITICES

CISLE SECRETARIAT DISSENIRATION

ASSIFIED NESSAGE

TOTAL CORES E

SECRET

===-==

1497-e

ROUTING AAC. CA M. TH

•r:.

-вт:

-on or de

ARE TO ERE ACID COPY

I RETURY 89

WHa

6605.

SECRET 2SI60Z MAY 79 CITE

DIRECTOR

UNar NO7S2S?

le ACCORDING MORNING PRESS & MAY, LEGISLATIVE CHAYZER

PASSED DEGEE 1 PAY SHICH STRIPPED FOLLOUIS LESSONS OF

HAITIA CITIZENSHIP AND CONFISCATEO THEIR CCODS AS CHATTELS;

OLEMARO JOSEPH CHARLES, CLEMENCEAU PROSPER, ALPHONSE LAKERS,

AID KESHER BLAIN. STATED REASOS. FOR DECRES WAS THAT THESE

PER SORS WERE ACCOMPLICES OF REBEL COASTGUARDSMER. THIS

DECREE ESSEITIALLY SAME AS OKE PASSED 27 APRIL ACCERDING

DEBTICAL TREATMENT TO COASTSUARDSHEN.

2. PALACE ALSO AK"OUNCED THAT IT KOULD KOT PROCEED.

WITH EXTRADITION PROCESDINGS AGAINST COASTGUARDSTE! ZUT WOULD

JUDGE THEM IN ABSENTIA. THIS ACTION FCLLOYED ECTE RECZIVED

BY EMBASSY ON 7 MAY WITIDRAVING EARLIEP. RECUSST FOR

EXTRAD IT 10H.

30 KET EFFECT THESE ACTIONS LENDS CREDENCE IO IMPRESSION

THAT HAITIAN GOVI PREPARED ACT IN OUTWARDLY LEGAL WAY IN

DEALING WITH REBELLICH. OVIONE HAND, REXCVAL OF CITIZENSHIP

AND CONFISCATIO% OF PROPERTY LEAVES FAMILIES DESTITUTE WHICH

PROBABLY APPLE OBJECT LESSON TO OTHERS CONSIDERING REBELLION

SECRET

'rarlis' 201.

---

## Page 22

14-00000

FORN 1129

USE NEVIDAS

EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETAD AT DISSERINATION

Literas

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SEcret

Does

CONSENT TO CIFER NO.

HREE TO ES FLEBD.-

O TERS DACTURS TO

El FIS, VR

%...

PACE THO

SECRET

WHILE AVOIDING ADVERSE PUBLICITY SIGENERED BY WHOLESALE

ARRESTS AID KILLINES IN PAST. ON OTHEE, WITHORAZAL OF

EXTRAD IT ION RECUEST PROBABLY DONE IN RECOGHITION OF FACT

THAT U.S. WCULD NOT HONOR REQUEST AND THUS NEEDLESS

CONFRONTATION KITH U.S. AVOIDED.

4o IS BOTH RESPECTS, THESE MOVES REPRESENT MUCH MORE

MODERATE RESPONSE THA! HAD BEEN TRUE IN PAST. WHILE THEY

SUGGEST DUVALIER MAY BE MELLOWING WITH PASSING YEARS,

INCLINE EJLIEVE THAT THEY PROMPTED MORE SY HIS BELIEF THAT

HIS POSITION SUFFICIENTLY SOLID IO MAKE MORE DRASTIC

MEASURES UNRECESSARY TEMPERED BY NOTION THAT SUCH MEASURES

RIGHT PROVORE ADDITIONAL RESELLIONS. THUS DUVALIER WOULD

APPEAR OICE AGAIN TO HAVE STRUCK WORKASLE POLITICAL BALANCE

BETVEEN VARIOUS CORTEDING FORCES AND FACTIONS IF HIS

EIT OUR AGE:

•50 08 PERSONAL SIDE, FRAYNE'S LIFE SOMEWHAT

COMPLICATED BY FACT THAT CHARLES VAS HIS LANDLORD AND EFFECT

OF CONFISCAIION ORDER REMAINS TO BE SEEI

NO FILE.

GP- lo

SECR

E T

SECRET

---

## Page 23

cd-idloor

•TRAISMITIAL

OF

TDCS INFORMATION REFORT

LASSHACATION, :

SECRET

(Whag Sillad da)

DRIG

UNIT

EXT.

DATE

CONF:

BOUTING

WH/7/KAITI/REPORIS

4222

T HAY 1970

WH

15

#OTN

CA 5, CA. PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, FI 6, FI/D. IV

DATE DISTRIBUTED

7 JAY 197C

DISSEMINATION

PRECEDENCE

XT ROUTINE

BASED ON IRD. MT- PIOIN

WH/REG

*H

7/Hti 7

WH/R

2 MH:7 DR

WH/F1

WH/CA

1

1

KH

NH

(CISCSO)

6H/7/R

REZ LAMI

EVALUATICH

REQUESTED

STATE

ARATT

O5

HANDUNG INSTRUCT.ONS

C

RECOMMEND EIO

6870, 6871

(IN 075915,

075925)

нтр-1406, 1405

JEVMISER

JLIAISON:

(EVMISER-B)

NAVY

AIE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

BASIC DOCUMENT NOT

MADE AVAILASLE DCI

RELAY CARE ATTACHED

SHOW IW

:DISSEM ELECTESCALLY

TO:

EICLUSIVE FOR USIB

USIB PERSONAL ATTN

IRWANOO CASLE SENT

NOT FOR LAISON

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFRCEI

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

C/WH/7/|

CLASSIFCATON

RELEASING

SECRET

(Whhee Fiitndl tn1

C/wH/R

COPY NO.

Joe 11-2 une Aurweus eorones

Chacles 201-357629

---

## Page 24

td-innod

• ROUTINE.

Intelligence Information Cable

IN

075915

075925

PAGE I OF 2' PAGES

STATE/IMI DLA MACC/MC (SECDEF ICS ARMY MAVY AIR) CIA/NACE MIC NSA S0O OE CRS IEN JERIT:I

DILECTORATE OP

FBI

SS/ID

PLAES

I& 55

M AN.

Thie meerdal oeaira io u ee d fe to Mo Peiod Dodern e thel L'aipda So er mitia thy meoning of tha Eexirnga Lonea, Tisto I US.C. Bace T73 ones T9Q tie

NO FOREIGS DISSFJ

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REFORT, NOT FMALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

DIST 7 MAY 1970

COUNTRY HAITI

03 14 32G F73

SUWECT

%. STATUS OF COL, KESVER BLAIN, QCARTERMASTER GENERAL OF ARKED

PORCES, AVD CLEWARD JOSEPH CERELES, PRESIDEST OF COMVERCIAI

Ba.d,

INPRISONED FOR ALLEGED AXII-GOVERNWEST PLOTTING

2. DESUNCIATION OF COL. OCTAVE CATARD, CONMANDER OF COAST GUARD,

BY LECKNER CANBRONNE, DEPUTY FROM ARCAHALE

I.. ONE OF THE SOLDIERS AT THE DESSALINES BARRACKS IEO IS

GUARDING COL. KESNER BL A IN, QUARTERMASTER GENERAL OF THE

ARMED FORCES, AVD CLENARD JOSEPE CRARLES, PRESIDENT OF.

THE COSDIERCIAL BINK OF HAITI, WHO WERE ARRESTED IN EARLY APRIL

1970 FOB ALLEGED ANTI-GOVERVVENT PLOTTING, SAIC THAT BOTH MEN

STILL MERE ALIVE AS OF 30 APRIL. (HEADQUARTERS COMNENT:

TDCS-314/03869-70 REPORTED THE ARRESTS OF BLAIN AND CHARLES. )

2. ACCORDING TO A SOLDIER AT THE NATIONAL PALACE, COL.

OCTASE CAYARD, CONMANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, WAS SUMNONED

• SECRET N0 FOREIGN DISSEM

ietaaea !

---

## Page 25

075915

IN

075925

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

•SE-C-R-E-TINO FOREIGN DISSEY

1811897s constoole)

TO THE PALACE ON 22 APRIL 1970 BY PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER

AS A RESULT OF A DENUNCIATION BY LUCKNER CAM BRONNE,

À DEPITY FROM ARCAHAIE. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

REPORTED THAT CAMBRONNE WAS A MEXBER OF A COSMISSION ASSIGNED

BY UVALIER TO INTERROGATE THE PERSONS ARRESTED DURING THE WEEK

OF 1 APRIL 19702) WHILE CAYARD FAS WITH DUVALIER, CANBRONNE

TELEPEONED DUVALIER 70 SAY THAT CAYARD SHOULD NOT BE RELEASED

BECAUSE HE (CAMBRONNE) HAD IRREFUTABLE PROOF OF CAYARD'S

COMPLICITY IN ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING. DUVALIER ASKED CABERONNE

TO REPEAT HIS ACCUSATION VHILE HE GAVE CAYARD THE TELEPHONE

RECEIVER TO LISTEN. FOLLOWING THE CONVERSATION WITH CAMBRONNE,

DUVALIER REASSURED CAYARD OF HIS TRUST IN HIM AND REQUESTED

CAYARD TO ARREST TWO COAST GUARD OFFICERS DURING THE COURSE OF

THAT WEEK, CAYARD AGREED TO FOLLOW THE ORDER, BUT TOLD DUVALIER

THAT HE KNEW THE ADDRESS OF ONLY ONE OF THE TWO OFFICERS.

(FIELD COMMENT: ON 24 APRIL 1970, CAYARD LED AN ABORTIVE REVOLT

BY THE COAST GUARD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT. SEE

AND SUBSEQUENT REPORTING ON THIS SUBJECT.)

FIELD DISSEN: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLAYT.

•S-E-C-R-E-I/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

feinstillention,

t. "

---

## Page 26

DEPT OF STATE IDLEGRAM

POET AU PRIXICE 472

DAZZ:

28 APRIL, 1970

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUEJECT:

REPOROS OF EXECUTIONS OF PEESONS ALLEGEDLY

INVOL PD IN COAST COARD ATTACK

---

## Page 27

SUBJECT

CF

SECRET

(Men Falled in;

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

DOC MENT

IDENTIFICATAOE

S- ANALYST

&. DATE PROCESSED

CHOS$ REFERRED

TO THIS FILE

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR

SOUNCE DOC. SYMBOL HA

7. SOURCE CHYPTONYM O- DATE OF INFO.

10. JISSEMINATED IN

T1. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRANSFERRED TO

fIlE mO.

PERTINENT INFORMATIOM

DATE

EVANATION

CHARLES

201-357029

SEX M DOB ?

CIT ?

OCC 7

ACCUSED CF COUP PLOTTING

036-0C9-006

PRIN 06803

15 APR 70

HTP

R 7005080679

FILE IN 201-352029

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

PORN 869 ..

SECRET

---

## Page 28

CLASELFICATION

TRANSMITIAS

OF

IDCS INFORMATION REPORT

SECRET

ORIG.

ROUTING

ĐNT.

WH/7/FAITI/REPO?TS

DATE

4222

3 ;

#104

13 APRIL 1970

CONFIRMATION COPIE

WH

15

TDCS - 314/04019-70.

INFORMATION COPIES

5, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI, CI/PS, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5,

*6, FI/D, IW, SOD

DATE DISTRIBUTED

13 APRIL 1970

PRECEDENCE

WH/REG

WH/R

WH/FI

WH/CA

DH/7/R

EVALUATION

REQUESTED

STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

XI ROUTINE

DISSEMINATION

RARED ON IRIA PER

BH/7/Ht 7 M2

2

WH/7/DR 1 332/

J5CSO)

REP/LANT =

6798

(IN 060590)

HTP-1379

EVLESION

LIAISON:

SYLENON- 19)

ARMY

NAVY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

COOIDINATING OFFICEIS)

SECRET

ANDA F8880 1g

BROUP !

BELLASING

C/WH

COPY w

charles 201-357029

FA Mi.

---

## Page 29

ROCTISE

Intelligence Information Cable

IN 060590

PAGE 1 OF. 2 PAGES

FRATE/INR DLA NACC/AC CECDEF ICS ARMY NAVE ASO CRA/NNOE NOC NSA SDO ONE (OS INTZEIDI

12E07EХА

DIRECTORATE OP

PLANS

Tan mereria oatsie ila o ioa ts dn, da or nod oona d do Darired e iin te erains ol tho frepicmaço loe, Too 18 UISS Saa, TT coid 29 the

мандізьот ат пиевіс

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

SECRET

THIS IS AS INFORMATION ISPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

132 022k270

DIST 13 APRIL 1970

COUNTRY HAITI

SUAJECT DENUNCIATION BY CLENARD JOSEPE CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF COSCIERCIAL

BAIK OF HAITI, OF AXTI-GOVERNKENT PICT

1. ACCORDING TO IE. JACQUES FOURCAND, ONE OF THE

PERSONAL PRYSICIANS TO PRESIDEIT FRATCOIS DUVALIER,

DUVALIER WAS INFORKED OF THE RECENT ANTI-GOVERNUENT PLOT, KHICH

SUBSEQUENTLY LED TO SEVERAI ARRESTS OF SUSPECTED PLOTTERS, BY

CLENARD JOSEPE CHABLES, PRESIDENT OF THE CONMERCIAL BINK

OF HAITI. CHARLES DENOCNCED THE PLOT TO DUVALIER WHEY HE REALIZED

HE HAD BEAY "DOUBLE CROSSED" BY COL. KESJER BLAIN,

QUARTERXASTOR GENERAL OF THE ARVED PORCES, NIO HAD PRONISED TO

MAKE CHARLES PRESIDEST OF HAITI IN RETURT FOR $100,000 TO FINANCE

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

(elansifeuten)

Pd' aaors pestorenes

---

## Page 30

IN 060590

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

• SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEN

1218315 careles

A REVOLT AGAINST DUVALIER. GEISIES JISO EAS PERISED FO

-...

GIVE THE VONEY TO BLAIN. (HEADQUARTERS CONNENT: ALTHOUGE SOURCE

DID NOT INDICATE EON BLAIN HAD "DOGBLE-CROSSED" CHARLES, CHARLES

HAS REPORTED IN OCTOBER 1969 TO BE FINLICING A PLOT BIG

HEADED BY COL, OCTAVE CA YARD, COMMANDER OF THE COAST GEARD.

REPORTED AYOTHER PLOT AGAINST THE DUVALIER GOVERNEST BEING

HEADED BY BIAIN. CHARLES, HOWEVER, WAS NOT MRITIONED IS THIS

REPORT AS BEING LIVOLVED IN BLAIN'S PLOT.)

2. FOCBCAND SAID THE INQUIRY IS CONTINUING. HE SAID THAT

HE WOULD DEFEND THE PRISONERS AND ADDED THAT NO ONE WOULD BE SHOT

'AS HAD HAPPENED BEFORE. (HEADQUARTERS CONNENT: FOURCAND PROBABLY

IS REFERRLIG TO A SIMILAR PURGE OF SUSPECTED PLOTTERS AGILIST THE

COVERNIENT CARRIED OUT BY DUVALIER IN HID IS67, WHICH RESULTED

IN THE EXECUTION OF 19 ARMY OITICERS.) (FIELD CODEST:

REPORTED THAT FORCIND IS!

A METBER OF THE COMISSION INTERROGATING BLAIN AND THE O1:138

PERSONS ARRESTED DURING THE WEEK OF 1 APRIL 1970.)

3. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, ARMY, CINCSO, CINCLANT. (ALSO

5

SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEN

(CONSENT:

---

## Page 31

15.

m#s040?:049

THE TO CB FAEN

OPENS CAST-S TO

1 # 2A DH

METER.

Wits

SECRET ISITOR AIR 79 CITE

16795

RECTOR

9/s 3059504,

'jo COSSIDERISS FACT THAI BLAIN AFFAIR IS FIRST JUICY

MCASEL LOCAL RUMOR MILL HAS MAD TO CHEN ON IN SORE MOSTHS,

RUNO? CIRQUIT REMARKASLY QUIET AS OF MORNING 9 APRIL.

STATION ASSIS HAVE HAD HOTHING NEW TO REPORT SINCE

EVHISER/8"S ACCOUNT OF UNCERTAINTY IN COAST

GUARD. EVEN

. *

LIPURE INFCRHASTS WHO SOMETIMES WORK OVERTIME CONCOCTING

RATIONALES OF PAST EVETES AND GUESSTIYATES OF FUTURE IN THIS

I TYPE OF SITUATION HAVE SEEN SILENT.

2. CURRENT BOX SCORE OF DETAINEES COMPRISES BLAIN,

-DOUGE, BORDES, CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES AND HIS ASSISTANT,

'APOLLO EARSIER. ALPHONSE LAHENS STILL AI LARGE ASD

"REPORTELY UNSUCCESSFUL. IN SEEKING ASYLUM AT VARICUS LATIN

-DASSIES® PRE. LAHESS IC LONGER IN CUSTODY. ALSO

CONSTAKT IN DUPLESSIS HAS BEEN RELEASED.

3O HO HARD INFO AND LITTLE ISFORMED SPECLLATION

CURRENTLY AVAILASLE ON NATURE OR EXTENT OF PLOT IF ONE

"AGUALLY EXISTED. MOST PERSISTEST RUMOR

IS THAT SLAIN

SOVEHOW FLAMIDD SEIZE GC-IN AND LAY SIEGE TO PALACE WITH

SECRET

Chucles 301 File. 1

---

## Page 32

thiss

218.E7

AT:

When Fin, a

EPRCQUETION SE MUS COPY

CL NOT TO ES PRIMO

INET TO CB FLE A

BEA

FILE, Va

ACTAN NO

PAGE THO

5795 SECRET

PORT AU PRINCE POLICE SOMEHOW PLAYING ROLE OF GROULD

TRODPS IN ATTACK ON PALACE. IF THERE ANY SUBSTANCE AT

ALL TO THIS RUMOR, SEEMS ODD THAT EOVT HAS HOT MOVED AGAINSI

COAST GUARD. SEERS EQUALLY ODD THAT BLAIN WOULD HAVE BEEN

BADMOUTHING COYEAT EFFECIIVENESS OF POLICE IN TALKINE TO

EVENS LASI DECEYEE? IF HE ESVISIONED SOXE ROLE FOR THEMO

4O OUR TENTATIVE JUDGEMEST AT THIS POINT IS THAT PLOT,

IF ONE EXISTED, STILL VERY MUCH: IN TALKING STAGE AID THAT

ARRESTS PROMPTED. MORE BY INDISCREET TALK BY BLAIN,. CHARLES,

IT AL WHO NOTORICUSLY VOLUBLE TESS REAL CAPABILITY MOB

ACTION. ALSO BY FACT THAT GOVI HAD NOT TAXEN DECISIVE

ACTIOU DE THIS SORT FOE SOME TIME AND DUVALIE?. MAY HAVE

CONCLUDED THAT TIE RIPE TO REMISO DISSIDEETS THAT HE STILL

IN SADDLE.

So NO FILE. GP-lo

SECREI

SECRET

---

## Page 33

14-0000s

DEPT O: STATE TELEGRAM

PORT AU PRINCE 295

DATE: 7 APRIL 1970

CLASSIFICATION: CONEIDENTIAL

SUEJECI: ARRESTS OF COMMERCIAI. BANK OFFICERS

---

## Page 34

14-00000

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Immigration and Naturalization Service

MIAKI FA®

Intructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyph

wish the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Foderal Bureau of Investigatio

Department of Justica

Washington, D. C. 20535

DATE

1-21-70

NAL

sl1

za alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of Section 11

) 15 (A) or Section 10/ (a) 15 (G) of the immigration and Nationaliy As

Firss Name

scictle initial

CIENERD,

JOSEPH

'CHARLES

COUNTRY OF CITIZINSHIS

HAITI

LINTED STATES ADDEESS Mumber, Streco, C's. State, Iiy Coche)

UNIVERSITY PLACE 2 B. ORANGE, NY

ANILINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARIYAL

AF 212

Hamber, Strel, Cry, Province (Stuta) and Copiry of PERMANENT RESIDENCE

RHE LAMARRE #2 PORT AU PRINCE, HAITI

GA TEL DATE

SIETH PLACE

20-07-39:

CAPOTTLIB, HAITI •

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION

MIAMI, FIA. 1-1770

PURPOSE AND LENGTH DE ADMISSION

offleinl dur of statas

DESTINATION

USA abeve

RET

Debor m

e: CIA

are roquested to furninh any derog

2/2/70

BEF

ory subvorste information regarding this allen to the F.Bul.

file in 204. 35702.9

---

## Page 35

14-00000

3165%

CLASPIED MESSARE

SECRET

" man fires in

Wh

0: 201720

G

WHiS

8I780

CANTY TO ESTER I-

PRESEPENCE

BETION

SE C

R

ET 2816382 OCT 69

PRIORITY DIRECIOR INFO

DO BASE NEW YORK

AXULE DONOFS EVMEND

REFS: A.

+87561709361

B.

11858178095)

I• INTERESIED TO MOTE THAT RES A CITES IDEMS F ANDN

•EF A AS ONLY POSSIBLY GITING OF RES A PLOI, WHEREAS IDEN N

IS SOURCE OF INFO ON REF & PLOT IN WMICH IDES F IS ALLEGEDLY

20010874697

PRIME ACTIVIST. POSSIBILIIY THUS EXISTS, IF THERE AMY

VALIDITY TO EITNER REF, THAT REF B IS SIMPLY DEFORI BY IDES H

AND/OR IDEN E TO SMOKE QUI INFO CU REF A PLOT FROM EVNEND/I=

EVMEND/D'S ACTION IN INFORMING IDEN N AND URGING BC TO CCORDIATE

*IIN IDEN F SZEMS FUOLHARDY SINCE IT BROADENS SPECTRUN OF LOOST-

LIPPED MALIANS PRIVY TO ONE OR BOTY ALLEGED PLOTS.

20 ALSO INTERESTING THAT BC ENERGES FROM BOTH REFS WITH

ACTION CAFABILITY OF WHICH WE MITHERTO UNAWARE. WHILE THIS

PUSSIBLY MORE CASE OF EVREND/I ATTEXPIING CREATE IMPRESSION OF

IN COUNTRY CAFABILITY THAT ACTUAL FACT, WOULD APPRECIATE ANY

ADCIFRONAL LISIT 2Y OCTOBER MEETING ABLE SHED ON BC PERSOWALITIES

AND ACTIV!TIES.

SACRIT

10.2568-nmad

---

## Page 36

14-00000

CASTIFiED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECREY --

Whos Friled In)

PHOOUCY.ON 022118001

JILS, VR

PAGE TWEL

S

ECRET

3O WOULD ALSO APPRICIATE HOS COMMENIS CA IMPLICATIONS FOR

BC OF APPARENT RIFT BETWEEN EUMEND/I AND EVMEND/A•

A CONCERNINO PARA S REF A REQUEST FOR FAST COMMO BETVEES

EVREND HOS AND EC, HOS MAY WISH CONSIDER FLOATING

AS PERSONAL FRIEND OF

INO RECENTLY ARRIVED

LNSOLD OFFICER BUT PROBABLY WILLING PASS ON PRIVATELY AMY WORD

FROM BC. THIS PLOY USEFUL IN SMOKING OUT EVMEND/I WILLINGHESS

IDESTIFY BO OPERATIVES, WHILE LEAVING

FREE TO DISAVON 1B

EVERT CIRCUMSTANCES ON GROUND SO DICTATE. THIS ALSO PRESUPPOSES

EYREND!! CONTINUING VIABILITY AS CHANNEL TO EVNEND ORG DESPITE

RIFT WITH EVMEND/A SINCE WE SEE LITTLE VIRIUE IN OFFER OF CORNO

CHANDEL BECOMING SOURCE OF FURTKER FRICTION BETVEEN VARIOUS EVHENDS.

3. FILE: 36-121-2313.

SECRET

SACRIT

iD0Mi d11411450

---

## Page 37

27 October 1969

MENORASDUM FOR : Deputy Chief, WHY

REFERESCE

: Your request this subject

Following our receipt of information that Clemard-

Joseph Charles bad taken a list of requirements into

the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince and asked help in

filling them, WH Division sent a semorandus on

19 August 1969 to the Chief,

DCS, asking that DCS's

contact with Louis A. Brun (from whom Charles bad

received the requirements) be terninated.

The DCS New York office on 29 August 1969 sent a

memorardum to Chief, DCS,

which reviewed the case,

Brun had been guilty of sloppy security, and concluded

that no further requirerents would be given him.

memorandun did not, homerer, say that contact would be

terminated; in fact, it said they would continue to de

brief Brun

whenever

he returned from a trip to Haiti.

This nenorandun was sent to Port-au-Prince (ETPW-1347,

17 Sept 1969) •

The Station replied

J11 Oct 69)

that this was not enough,

that the contact should be

completely severed. MH/Branch 7 officers then met with

to discuss the matter further,

WH/7 officers maintaining that there was more political

action hazard to this contact than the fl product

justified.

agreed to raise the matter with

C/DCS.

The result was a nenorandum on 16 October 1969

Iron C/ICS to C/WHD which referred to the original WHD

memorandum of 19 August and advised that contact with

Brun has been terminated.

was so inforned

(DIR 48277, 21 Oct 69).

SECREI

ENBIERESOON

---

## Page 38

14-00000

CABLE SECTE "I AT DISSENTATIONI

AVANCE COM DISSUES ORTEDI

A AS*IFILO =(990G1

SECRET

MIAIOLETICO

:5:00r

+IE0 80.

D. 90 D090

PYA SHIES

0188€# H

K11 3

ECT CLes, ELZ, CAS, CAlPeE, CAllere, MestesEz,

SECHET OMDICZ OCT 69 CITE

PRICRITY DIRECICS INFO

NO NIACT

ANULE SOPOPS EVFEND

REF

7166 27818874095

7975 (1N70936)

1E76(1MTE232)

MARCEL

¿OURCE PALA & PELOW IS IDEN M OF REF B VIA EVMERD/I. DOI

CA 25 CCTOBEF.

SEPAPATE PLOT FROM THAT DESCHIPED REFÁ IS UNDED WAY HEADED

3Y IDE: F REF E WITH ALLEGED SUPPORT OF UXIDENTIFIED OFFICERS WHO

PLAMEISE TO TAKE POWER USING TWO CORPAMIES FROM DESSALIFES FARRACKS..

ISEN & PEGUESTS THAT EVERDS LAUNCH FATE iNVASION PLOT DIVENSION

SIVILA? TO ONES IN PAST, LETTIMG IDEN E KNOU DATE AND PLACE INVASION

SUPPOSED TO OCCUR. COUP MOULD THEN EE TIMED ACCOPDIRELY. IDEH W

IMPLIED IMAT COAST GUARD ONCE ALERTED COULD BE COUNTED CO TO GO ALONG

WITH JNSURGENTS BUT DID MOT MENTION IDEN A REF D IN INIS CONTEXT..

SECRET

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SEC

1-74025 15 2

3. EVTELOI INFSAPED IDENH IN GENEPAL TEP*S THAT PER A PLOT

IS JELLISE AS ANY ESTION SY IDEN E EROUP ASAIIST PPESIDENTIAL

GLAPD GULD SE PISTARE. EVPEND/I IHFORMIRG BUPEAU CENTRAL DE. IDEN

F PLASS AND LEGISE THEP COORDINATE, SAYS EVENDS WILL NOT ATTEMPT

TO FLCAT ISVASION STORY OR APPROVE ANY SUCH ATTEMPT ON PART OF EMIGFES.

4O EUMELLIA FAS MOT DEEN INFORMED BY EVTEIDAI OF INFO PARA

2 REOVE, ALTEDUGH EUMENDIA AVARE THAT EVTERDAS HAS BEEN SEEING

IDES HO EVEN/I MAS APPPAISED EVMEND/S OF GENEPAL FEATUPES OF REF

A PLAN EUT NOT OF PAPA & ABOVE. RELATIONS RETVEEN EVMEND/I AND EVERDIA

APPEAR TO EE AT RATIP, HENCE SUGGEST GILSPIDE PLAN DETAILED

DISCUSSIOY PFESES: SITUATION IN VC WITH BASE PRIOR TO AFTERNOON

PESTING WITH EV-SDAI ON 29 OCTOPER.

3. FILE: 35-126-2513. INDEX DEFER.

SECRET

.*

---

## Page 40

T0O.(58-01998-0° 39995740° 09

t pros: # 07 557.001

SECRET

DIDACC: C'5408

_mores

at

A-188 4O FILE 10 -

0-3880 80-

ot,T 6229

леня

23₴

SECRET 23:3257 OCT

69

DIRECIOR INFO

AKULE DOMOPS EVMEND

RET

CITE

6928

2308 6# 71599

1(4070936)

IO. ONLY POSSIBLE INDICATION OF RET PLOTTINO IN RICEST

REPORTING WAS DELPHIC CORNENT BY EVLEMOW/18 70 E2

ON 21 OCTOBER THAT VHILE MEN LIKE DESIDOR, RAMEAU ESTINE,

FREDERIC DESVAPIEUX MANEUVER TO REPLACE DUVALIEB, IT IS SAMED

FORCES WHICH HAS THE LAST WORD IN SUCH MATTERS. ALSO THAT

THERE ARE TIMES, IN POLITICS, WHE: E/LE MUST BE RETICENT •

DESPITE MIS CONSIDENCE IN E/Z'S INTENTIONS, ALSO WHEN ENZ

LEAST EXPECTED IT, E/IA VOULD TELL MIN EVERTTHIMG THAT VAS

COING CH. REMARKS WERE MADE IN RESPONSE TO EIE QUESZION ABOUT

IMPACT OF RECENT NOUVEAU RONDE ARTICLE BY ANTOINE KERARD WHICH

BEING INTERPRETED BY E/I8 AS DUVALIER PLANT FORESHADOVISE PURGE

• OF MORE CORRUPT ELSMENTS IN GOVI. GREACTION OF E-S, 18 AD

16 TO ARTICLE BEING DISSEMEDS... THUS L/IO'S REMARKS MAY SIMPLY

MAVE REFERRED TO THIS SORT OF PURGE INSTEAD BROADER PLOT.

NOTED REF®

MAS APPOINTMENT WITH IDEN B NI DOSO &7 OCI TO

SECRET

" et ir le

---

## Page 41

C-455 1 852833068

SECRET

norant com

m8 NO 34T"

PAGE TO

SICRET

DISCUSS MEN LEASE ON MOUSE HE OCCUPYING. PLAN USS RESTILA

TO OPEN LOM KEY CHAUNEL TO IDEN 8O REALIZE IMIS DUPLICATES

EXISTING CHANNELS OTHER LAPURE OFFICERS AND IDEN B SOTORIQUSLTO

INDISCREET, BUT JAY BE OF VALUE IF RET FLOT JELLS.

SO ALSO PLAN PAY COURTESY CALL ON IDES A WHO LIVES TWO

MOUSES AbAY IN CONTEXT GETTING ACQUAINTED WITH MEIGHBORS..

4O RE IDEN I WHO ENCRYPTED EVLENS/I, BELIEVE UPCOMING

VISIT RAY AFFORD CHAICE GET FIRST MAUD READING

HIS VIEWS®

OR

_ MAY APPROACH DIRECTLY AS PERSON TEEGAST

SUGGESTED WAS WELL INFORMED ON HAITIAS AFFAIRS. PLS ADVISE

IF MOS HAS OOJECIIONS TO LATIER TACE• ..

SO ACCORDINE MILATI, IDEN DAL IS PROSASLY HANGE HEAD

THOMAS, PDOB, SIO PAZC, HAITI, S JUN 3S; GRADUATED MAITIAN

MILITARY ACADEMY '36.

6. UPON CLEARANCE FROM MOS, VILL PASS SUBSTANCE

PARAS 2 AND 3 RES TO CRARGE.. ALSO PLEASE ADVISE WHEN LIBOLD

INFORMED.

SECRLT

"BEL

SECRET

---

## Page 42

14-00000

TRANSAITTAL

TDCS INFORMATION REPCHT

OASSIFICATION

#179

ACUTIG

SECRET 23

ono.

UNTT

EXT.

NH/ 7/REPOP.TS/ HAITI

DATE

4222

23 ОСТОВЕЗ

1969

CONFRMATION ESPS

Beat

vut-E

WH

18

INFORMATION COPES DCI, D/DCI, DUP, ABDP, CS/AF

... CA 5, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, FI 6, PI/D, IW

DATE DISTRUUTED

23 OCTOBER 1969

FRECEDENCE

MI NATION

X I RCUTINE

BASED CNIEN ME

WR/REG

WE/R

WH/FI

1

WE/7'At: 7

2

1

WE/7/ DR 2

NE/CA

WE/T/R

EV A JA TTON

REQUESTED

CE

STATE

HANDUING INSTRUCTIONS

(IN 70936)

ETHEND (EVÜEND-1)

LIAISON:

ATAY

NAVY

AI$

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

[COOAI

C

CLASAACATION

SECRET

CHSHET ITELEO +UB

COPY

F-O-8 OID

chactes 201-357029

---

## Page 43

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTI

IN 70936

PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES

DIBECTORATE OF

NO FOREIGN DISSEY:

SECRET

THIS 15 AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

23 21 012 0cre3

DIST 23 OCTOBER 1969

COUNTY HAITI

:..SUWECT PLANS BY HAITIAN MILITARY OFFICER TO OVERTHROW THE DUVALIER

GOVERNMENT AND TO ESTABLISH A JUNTA

1, ALTHOUGH NO SPECIFIC DATE HAS BEEN GIVEN POR THE ACTION,

COL. OCTAVE CA YARD, COMANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, GEN.

GERARD CONSTANT, CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES, AND

COL, GRACIA JACQUES, CONLANDER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD,

ARE LAYING PLANS TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNHENT OF PRESIDENT FRANCOIS

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 44

IN 70936

PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

•SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DUVALIER AND TO ESTABLISH THENSELVES AS A JUNTA. THE

PLOT IS BEING HEADED BY CAYARD AND IS BEING FINANCED BY CLEMARD

JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF

THE CONVERCIAL BANK OF HAITI,

IN THE AMOUNT OF $600,000.

2. IN THE ORIGINAL PLAN, THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD WAS REGARDED

AS A MAJOR OBSTACLE TO THE SUCCESS OF THE PLAN AND, THEREFORE,

CAYARD AND CONSTANT AGREED TO INCLEDE JACQUES IN THE JUNTA ON THE

GROUNDS THAT IT WAS A NECESSARY EVIL. CAYARD'S ONLY CONTACT WITH

JACQUES, HOWEVER, HAS BEEN INDIRECTLY THROUGH CAPTAIN THOMAS

(FNU) • (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: THOMAS PROBABLY IS IDENTICAL WITH

MAJOR JEAN THOMAS, EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL

GUARD.)

3. BESIDES THE ASSISTANCE THE PLOTTERS HAVE OBTAINED FROM

INSIDE HAITI, THEY ALSO ARE SEEKING SUPPORT FROM HAITIAN EXILES

WHO ACTIVELY OPPOSE THE DUVALIER REGIME.

4. (HEADQUARTERS COUMENT: IN MID-ILY 1969, A MILITARY JUNTA,

WHICH INCLUDED CAYARD AND CONSTANT, WAS BEING FORNED TO OVERTHRON

THE HAITIAN GOVERNIENT. AT THAT TINE, IT WAS NOT CLEAR IF THE

GROUP HAD ACTUALLY APPROACHED JACQUES, BUT IT WAS THOUGHT THAT

AS COMMANDER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD, HE MIGHT BE ABLE TO

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(stones controlel

---

## Page 45

14-00000

70936

PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSED

OFTER NECESSARY SUPPORT FOR THEIR PLAN. SEE

THE PLANNING IN MID MAY 1969 WAS FOR ACTION IN THE EVENT OF

DUVALIER'S DEATH. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE PRESENT PLOT IS IN

FACT ONLY A CONTINUATION OF THAT CONTINGENCY PLANNING.)

5.

FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT. (ALSO SENT

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

(classicston)

(ausera cont

---

## Page 46

3

DANCE COM

Z,556

si8.r..

1940

01886089-

8E#

CHES :O PEESIGR

SECRET

1909.08 Tiras is)

680201

166H8848

doad 49.

0о2B0 D0 6 8186 BA.

C..e• 0.990801

3or

110

SE CR E T 221622Z OCT 69 CITE

ACTING)

PRIORITY DIRECTOR IRFO

AKULE DOMOPS EVMEND

REF

707s (w 70936)

7876

220089&70937

SECREI ST:

''"': "

SECKET

..: 88

---

## Page 47

7

$30831

i crit.

• 088 в

2-880 90 19 p060 08.

J.. 2140

lite

CA/REC, FIZ

S9 CITE.

1^75

• CTING)

'RIOFITY DIRECTO? 15FO

KULE SOOPS EVEN

•EF

+20181705585

1076937)

EPOFTS

ATED TO SEPT TYRU 11 OCTODEP, PEPORTS ENCONDED IN PRIVATE PLMEPICAL

COE USED PERTEEN ENTENDS ARD EC, PAILED TO EVERD/S OVEPT LETTER

ROP WHICH SAVE AS THAT USED EY EUMOURT/!.

DO TIERS A, CAME PLASMIHE GUESTHRON DUVALIER AID SET UP

•IVES AS JUNTA. TIFING NOT GIVE!. IDES E FIRANCING THE PLOT TO

INE OF É6P8, GRU. HESIDE VITTING PAPTIES APE IDENS D AND POSSIPLY 5.

TSIDE VITTIMS PARTIES ARE EVENTS, EUMEROGA IDENG, AND POSSIPLY

•IN HOLO ESOTHER OF IDEN F.

SO CHFOSCLOGY OF SC INVOLVIMENT IS AS FOLLOWSI LI AUG, BE

ITING PITH EDEN BE HO INDICATED ME PLANING SUPPORT COUP SNICH

¿CIPISES FUT FEEDS HELP IN REMOVING COSTACLE OF PPESIDENTIAL GUARD.

:. GAVE FIM NAMES OF FELIABLE IPDIVIDUALS AT SPECIFIG POSTS AND

IGGESTED APPROACH TO IDEN E VIA IDER DO 11 SEPTEMBER, BC FEETING

•IM IDES @ WHO REVEALED THAT HE DEALINE WITN IDEN G. EC PLACED

SECRET •

---

## Page 48

14-00000

165?

•TO RIDIRECT CONTACT MITE IDEA C VIA TOEN 1, DE DE IP SEPTEDEO,

OCCITACT FITM IDEA 1, LEAPSED THAT IDEN A 1S ITAGIME PLOT. 5C

SUED FER CONTACT WITM DDEN DO GS SEPTEMEEF AND O ACTOSER 36

EETING VITO IDEMA. 23 SEPTEMSER, LAST EC MEETING EITH DENO.

ROY THAT DATE TO 11 COTOREF OILY AC CONTACT NAS IDENA. AS OF IN

COZES EC FELT HAD COMPLETED EROVER POLE IN PLAN AND UNDERSTANDS

MAT IPSES A A C AGFEED TO I CLUSION OF IDEN E IN JUSTA ON GROUNDS

HIS NECESSARY EVIL, IDEN A MAINTAINS INDIPECT CONTACT WITH IDEN E

IA IDEA DO ICER C IS IN DIFECT CONTACT WITH IDEN DO NAMES OF

ITTING GUAROS OTHER THAM IDEH-A MCT DISCLOSED BY EC TO EVENIS.

4O PC PREES WHO CAFPYISE BALL THIS OP IS IDEN J.

SO PC FEGUESTS FCLLOWING ACTION FROM EVENOSE ESTABLISIERT OF

AST TWO-WAY COMNUNICATICHS ESTWEEN SC AND EUTENDS HO; AND

AUNCHING OF DIVEPSIONARY ACTION TO DISTPACT DUVALIER ATTENTION.

SENDS I AM A PECUEST RUROCY ASSISTANCE ON FIRST ITEM AND ADVICE

Y SECORD.

6a EVYOUST/I PLARMING TRIP TO NYC 2 MOVEMEER. EVERDS WOULD

•CEPT MIY AS COMMO LINK TO BC BUT UNSURE MON BE WOULD FEACT TO

XING MIM WITTING. EVNESDI! PROPOSES THO OTHER ALTEPHATIVES FOR

MERTEDIARY, IDENS K AND L, COULD ASCEPTAIN FPOM BC SY TELEPHONE

'HETHER EITHER OR BOTH ABLE TSAVEL TO US ON SHORT NOTICE, EVMEND/A

• ITITUDE THESE CAACIDATES NOT YET KNOWN.

%.. PEETING SCHEOLLED FOP EVENDI I AND GILBRIDE FOR 29

CTOBER. MILL ADVISS RE EVPENDIA AVAILABILITY SO OCTOBER.

LELAND FEETING EVNEED/A 2S OCTOBER.

EGRET

SECRET

---

## Page 49

18 40 4

ESSAME FU

SE(PET

¡a'.

Cause

gt

NE/7/HT

ĐIT:

1349-5595

21 OCTOBER

CABLE SECHITNNLAT DUSSTNIATICO

1969

87 -

_FEB -

COmE

1043

Bone. ve. Plin.

0 то воєх

- BRANON

• FILE MID

SECRET

21 23

Photo and bian telesa

l 2 Cents

REF:

(15 63672)*

I. ON 16 OCTOBER, MODISA ADVISED ARTLE THAT IT

HAD TERMINATED CONTICI WITH SUBJECT OF BEZ.

2.

FILE: 201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

47 70NL

Peterance mueber!

CITE DIRECTOR

4827.7

WE COMMENT:

saty, contact

579

WHITINT

ILLIAIT. BHUS

C/THD

НЕБАНА OFFICEN

€00

CS COPY

LATINO OFFICERS

2100t68

AUTHENTICATING

SECRET

samprattag

OFFICER

iren Estates

REPBODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

0201 - 357028

---

## Page 50

14-00000

WH/7/HT

*T:

1319-5595

21 OCTOBER

1969

INLE SECH DELHI DETERINATON

-it=

T5. hi COPES:

SECET

O to not

1. 18. 8 is

50 92n.3bit beta

SECRET

an ame son Fi fert

21 23

CITE DIRECTOR

REF:

(IУ 63672)*

1. O5 16 CCTOBER, NODISA ADVISED ALTLE TEAT IT

EAD TERKINATED CONTACE WITH SUBJECT OF REF.

2. FILE: 201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

PORCEL

48277

7

IfE.

•.

5==

#Н CONVEST:

*Sebject of Ref is Louis A. BRUN, contact

of Cleard Joseph CHAPLES.

1nA V. 13303

C/TED

CABINO OPICER

SECBET

CTION BE OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

and sag

---

## Page 51

14-00000

A UNCLASSIFIED

OWLY

CONF TATIAL

LO SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUIJECT: (Opsional)

DCS Contact With Louis A. Brun

FROM

DeS/SperatieN Support Stats

900 Key Bl58

tain alien deniseration

mhas, ans

DATE

EXTENSION

2268

Case 67540

DATE

16 October 1969

RECEVED

AMARCED!

EMAL

DO/DCSL

Acting Chief, in Division

3 D 3107 Headquarters

C/WAIFI

satisf

See Attached Memorandum.

2009T

7.

C/100/7

DC/WHIZ

C/WH/7/Xauti

Ruth ih!

Ock!

21985

218C7

Pls. advise

Done. - by

DIRECTER 48277

did

21 0e 1969

9.

1&.

11.

12

87

15.

SECREY

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 52

14-00000

SECRET

16 October 1969

HEMORANDUH POR: Acting' Chief, Hestera Henisphere Div181o0

SUBJECT

: DCS Contact With Louis A. Bran

REPENDICE : 19 August 1969 Memorandua To DCS Fron Va

te have terminated contact with Louis A. Brun.

SECRET

---

## Page 53

14-00000

CABLE SECRITARLT DISSRMITENTION

ADVANCI COPY

#LOTTED

D88EN 8Y.

-PER

MISSTED MESSAGE.

тети COR

SECRET i

65555

(When Filled 1s)

REPROOUCT ON OF THIS COPY ETCH #TES

DOES DIED

CUTEN TO FILL 90-

пы NO CHET. TO

BRANCHD

218 CEre

SECRET 102219Z OCT 1969 CITE

11 0c7 69 # 63672

DIRECTOR.

RYBAI

REFS HIPV-1347, 17 SEP 69

lo APPRECIATE REF RESPONSE BUT CANNOT SEE HOW

DeS

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN WODISH AND LOUIS A. BRUE IS

..ALIERED TO ANY APPREICABLE DEGREE IHROUGH NEW HANDLING

PROCEDURES NOR IS THE POTENTIAL FOR COMPROVISE LESSENED.

NIHE FINE. NUANCES RE WODISH HANDLING OF BRUN EBRIEFING

BUT HO BRIEFING) MAY BE UNDERSTANDABLE TO US BUT WILL BE

UTIERLY MEANINGLESS SHOULD BRUN WIND UP IN FRONT OF A

FIRING SQUAD. UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, WE DO NOT SEE

HOW RVROCK WOULD BE IN POSITION TO DISCLAIM RESPONSIBILITY

FOR BRUN'S INVOLVEMENT.

• 2 HARDLY A WEEX GOES BY BUT THAT LIPURE IS NOT

" MADE AWARE OF ANOTHER PLOITING EFFORT BY CLEMARD JOSEPH

CHARLES TO OVERTHROW DUVALIER. CHARLES PLOTTING EFFORIS

HAVE AGAIN REACHED A PITCH STRANGELY REMINISCENT OF THE

ONE WHICH IMMEDIAIELY PRECEDED HIS RREST IN 1967.

CHARLES HOW CLAIMS SUBSTANTIAL SUPPORT IN POLICE, COAST

SECRET

---

## Page 54

14-00000

CABLE SECHETAMIAY DISSESMNATION

PIROWUET BOTAND

CLASSITIAD MESSAGE

TOTAL CHES

SECRET

(When Fdled In)

REPROQUETON OF THIS CODI PES.. "ED

#L0974D

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO

PILE RID CRET. TO

59d Or.

JAID COPY

FUL. VR

POUTING ANOVOR NIMALS - SEEN EY

PAGE 2

6496 SECRET

GUARD, AND DESSALINES BATTALION. HIS PLAN THIS TINE IS

TO CREATE PANIC IN PORT AU PRINCE BY SETTING FIRES IN CITY

AHD CUL-DE-SAC AREA AND THEN MOVE THE GC-IO INTO THE

HARBOR TO STARI LOBBING SHELLS AT THE NATIONAL PALACE.

PLOTTING GROUP THUS FAR HAS FAILED TO BUY SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION,

FIEL FOR GC-10, AND PAY-OFF THE RIGHT PEOPLE.

3o THE FACT THAT WODISH DOES NOT BELIEVE BRUN IS

JEVOLVED IN ANY CURRENT REVOLUTIONARY SCHOME IN HAITI IS

HOT VERY REASSURING WHEN WE RECALL THAT AS LATE AS MAY 1969,

BRUN SERVED AS AN INTERMEDIARY TO PASS ON REQUEST FRON

PLOTTING GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW WITH LNHARP OFFICIAL.

DETAILS THIS REQUEST WHICH INCLUDED OPEN CODE MESSAGES

TO SET-UP MEETINGS AND RECOGNITION SIGNALS GIVEN BY

DIRECTOR 02376. BRUN MAY NOT BE ACTIVELY INVOLVED 9. OTT ING

GROUP BUT HE IS GUILTY BY ASSOCIATION WHICH IS MORE IMAN

ENOUGH IN DUVALIER'S HAITI TO ENSURE HIS SPEEDY

DISPAICH SHOULD DUVALIER DECIDE TO POUNCE ON CHARLES AND

BRUN HAPPENS TO BE IN THE COUNIRY.

Aa. THE TWO ADDITIONAL SUB-SOURCES OF BRUM CITED

SECRET

J

---

## Page 55

td-nn0n

ADVANCE COPY

BLOTTES

CLASSI:TO MESSICA

TOTA CORES

SECRET SEE STORAT

(wren filled in)

wr=00w 63r.89

REFROOSE" DA OF THIS COPI ESCRIB: TED

VEE D10

ENDER

СеЛьР та ті НО-

Н-НЕЛ Чо таЕ пО.-

NO OF IT IS - SEEN EY

DESTO -86

_ND COPY

PAGE 3

6496 SECRET

PARA 2, G. REF ACTUALLY TEND TO IMPLICATE HIM MORE IN

INTERHAL PLOTTING. ALFONSO LAHENS WAS IDENTIFIED BY B&JN

II DIRECTOR 82376 AS MEMBER OF PLOTIING GROUP WHO

WAS IM SEMI-KIDING IN MAY 69. LOUIS LEVEQUE WAS IDESTIFIED

AS PLOTTINS WITH CHARLES AND BRUN PER DIRECTOR 97813,

20 APR 660

JARVIEWED LIMITED AMOUNT OF ECONOMIC

INFORFIATICO PRODUCED BY BRUS AND CANNOT SEE HOW IT PROVIDES

AMYTHING HOT KNOWN CRUMOR OR FACT) IO LUPURE, WHICH HAS

STRONG ECONOMICS REPORTING OFFICER. SUSPICION THAT BRUN

HAS NO WORTHWHILE SOURCES IS SUPPORTED BY INCIDENT REPORTED

16323 WHEN CHARLES APPROACHED LNPURE

REQUESTING INFO TO SERVICE THE CIRL REQUIREMENTS LEVIED

ON BRUN BY VODISH®

6o BRUN IS ADMITTEDLY UNPROFESSIONAL, UNTRAINED, AND

APPARENILY UNCONTROLLED. AS LONG AS WODISH CANNOT PREVENT

BRUN FROM CONTACTING CHARLESCOR ANYBODY ELSE> IN HAITI,

THIS ACTIVITY WILL CONTINUE TO POSE RISKS FOR RVROCK•

BRUN IS A NATURALIZED AMERICAN OF HAITIAN ORIGIN, BUT VILE

HE IS IN HAITI, HE IS CONSIDERED A HAÍTIAN. INPURE CAN BIVE

SECRET

---

## Page 56

CABLE SECPITAMAT DESENMATION

PRISON LILT NOTHILD

ADVANCH COPY

BLOTTED

CLASHFIED MESS

TOTAL COMES

SECRET ST

(10'h Filed in)

REPRODUETET OF INIS CODY AROM BITED

AN DEN:

D

DEBEEN HY

ACTION

PID COPY

MILE NO CUT. TO

1798 01:

FIBE. VIL.

BRANCH D

PAGE

4

HIM NO PROTECTION®

7 FILE 8 201-357829

"SECRET

6496 SECRET

O SECRET

---

## Page 57

14-00000

_BLOTTES

ДУ:

TOTAL COPI

SECRET

RECLARS PAS

(w'ren Fulled in)

REPROOSE DA CE THIS COPY PRICE-TES

= 010

ChASE 10 F1

FILE ID:

101

ACTION

BRANCHE

TINFO

218 CERA CLIAS

Teles chestsa

boar

SECRET 102219Z OCT 1969

25T

6496

11069863672

DIRECIOR

RYBAT

REFS HTPY-1347, 17 SEP 69

I APPRECIATE REF RESPONSE BUT CANNOT SEE HOW

RELATIONSHIP BETVEES VODISH AED LOUIS A. BRUN IS

ALTERED TO AMY APPREICABLE DEGREE THROUGH NEW HANDLING

PROCEDURES MOR IS INS POTENTIAL FOR COMFROSISE LESSENED.

IRE FINE NUANCES RE WODISH HAIDLING OF BRUHDEBRIEFING

BUT NO BRIEFING) MAY BE UNDERSTANDABLE TO US BUT WILL BE

UTTERLY MEABINGLESS SHOULD BRUB WIND UP IN FRONT OF A

FIRIN® SQUAD. UNDER THESE CIRCUNSTANCES, WE DO NOT SEE

HOW RVROCK WOULD BE IN POSITION TO DISCLAIN RESPONSIBILITY

FOR BRUN'S INVOLVEMENT.

Lo HARDLY A WEEX GOES BY BUT THAT LIPURE IS NOT

MADE AWARE OF ANOTHER PLOTTING EFFORT BY CLEMARD JOSEPH

CRARLES TO OVERTHROW DUVALIER. CHARLES PLOTTING EFFORIS

NAVE AGAIN REACHED A PITCH STRANGELY REMIWISCENT OF THE

CUE UNION INREDBATELY PRECEDED MAS'AREST IN 1967.

1lOctk9

CHARLES MOV CLAINS SUBSTAUTIAL

• SUPPORT IN POLICE, COAST

SECRET

@dales

ES COPY 201-357029

---

## Page 58

KIETAPA! De

COsE

SEER BY

• NEVANCE GE

556E0

(When filed in!

REPRODUETON CE THIS COPY FED ATED

I9NDHZ:

O VES DO

CLABSIDE TO FILL NO -

B-REE TO FELINE M

FLE NO DIY. TO

1950:

1:91

BRANCH D

DESH TIE

PAGE 2

6496 SECRET

GUARD, AID DESSALINES BATTALION. HIS PLAN THIS TIME IS

TO CREATE PANIC IN PORT AU PRINCE BY SETTING FIRES IN CITY

AID CUL-DE-SAC AREA AND THEN MOVE INE GC-10 INTO THE

HARBOR TO START LOBBING SHELLS AI THE NATIONAL PALACE.

PLOTTING GROUP THUS FAR HAS FAILED TO BUY SHALL ARMS AMMUNITION,

FUEL FOR GC-18, AND PAY-OFF THE RIGHT PEOPLE.

Зo THE FACT THAI WODISH DOES NOT BELIEVE BRUN IS

INVOLVED IN AMY CURRENT REVOLUTIONARY SCHEME IN HAITI IS

NOT VERY REASSURING WHEN WE RECALL THAT AS LATE AS MAY 1959,

ERUN SERVED AS AN INTERMEDIARY TO PASS ON REQUEST FROM

PLOTTING GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW WITH LIHARP OFFICIAL.

DETAILS THIS REQUEST WHICH INCLUDED OPEN CODE MESSAGES

TO SET-UP MEETINGS AND RECOGNITION SIGNALS GIVEN BY

DIRECTOR 02376 BRUN MAY NOT BE ACTIVELY INVOLVED PLOTTING

GROUP BUT HE IS GUILTY BY ASSOCIATION WHICH IS MORE THAN

DOUGH IN DUVALIER'S HAITI TO ENSURE HIS SPEEDY

DISPAICH SHOULD DUVALIER DECIDE TO POUNCE ON CHARLES AND

BRUN HAPPENS TO BE IN THE COUNTRY®

4 INE TWO ADDITIONAL SUB-SOURCES OF BRUN CITED

SECRET

---

## Page 59

CAME SECRETANET E

KANCH COPY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

HOTTES

TOTAL ECHES

CHOUE!

(When Filed In:

865, 8080 229-98

REPRODUCTION OE THIS COPY PROM:BITEO

r2s D no

CLASSITY TO FILE NO.

F-HIS TO FILE MOM

FILE NO DAST. TO

_RID COPY

FaR, VAL

HOUTBIG ANDIOR Pa

181-

110!

DESTROY 1 86

"PAGE

6496 SECRET

PARA 2, C. REF ACTUALLY TEND IO INPLICATE HIM MORE IN

INTERNAL PLOTTING ALFONSO LAHENS WAS IDENTIFIED BY BRUN

IN DIRECTOR 82376 AS MEMBER OF PLOTTING GROUP WHO

WAS IN SEMI-HIDING IN MAY 69 LOUIS LEVEQUE WAS IDENTIFIED

AS: PLOTTING WITH CHARLES AND BRUM PER DIRECTOR 97813,

28 APR 66.

5.

HARVIEWED LIMITED AMOUNT OF ECONOMIC

INFORMATION PRODUCED BY BRUN AND CANNOT SEE HOW IT PROVIDES

ANYTHING HOT KHOWN CRUMOR OR FACT) TO LAPURE, WHICH HAS

STRONG ECONCHICS REPORTING OFFICER. SUSPICION THAI BRUB

HAS NO VORTHUHILE SOURCES IS SUPPORTED BY INCIDENT REPORTED

6323 WHEN CHARLES APPROACHED LNPURE

REQUESTING INFO TO SERVICE INE CIRL REQUIREMENTS LEVIED

O BRUN BY VODISH.

6o BRUM IS ADMITTEDLY UNPROFESSIONAL, UNTRAINED, AND

APPARENILY UNCONTROLLED. AS LONG AS WODISH CANNOT PREVENT

BRUM FROM CONTACTING CHARLESCOR ANYBODY ELSE IN HAITI,

THIS ACTIVITY WILL CONTINUE TO POSE RISKS FOR RVROCK•

BRUN IS A NATURALIZED AMERICAN OF HAITIAN ORIGIN, BUT UNILE

HE IS IN HAITI. HE IS CONSIDERED A MAITIAN. LNPUNE CAN GIVE

SECRET

---

## Page 60

COPLE SECRETARAY DISSEMITION

OTHES

CL

PESSAGE

TOTEL COMES

( When Filled Ini

REPROCLET ON DE THIS LOSE SOCH BITED

ves D no

#-RIS TO PILE O-

BRANCH]

ACTICAN

RID COP

". PAGE

AIM NO PROTECT 101.

To FILE : 281-357029.

-SECREI

6496 SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 61

089 *

WW:

R. BERG Et

WH/7/HT

1340-5595

15 MAY 69

SECRET

D aran to-

н. 1720 -

lalar o. cool ap 758524783-552

SIC&IT

PRICRITY

INFO:

Cra Dacros

0237 ₽

REF:|

(IN 57930)®

I. GIVEN BELÜ 18 TEXT OF DES REPONS CONCERNING

LIQUEST BY HAITIAN OPPOGITION CROUP FOR BECRET INTYRVIET

VITA U.B. OFVICIAL, DES REPORT CAME FROM LOUIS A. BRUA

ON BEHALE OF CLEMARD JOBSPE CHARLES, BRUT I8 CHARLES® ME •

TORE LAYER AND BUBIKESA REPARABITATIVE. DES TAB ADVIBRA

THAT WE LIVE NO INTIREST IN CONTACTINO ANY REPRRSKIEITIVE

CH MEMBER OF PLOTTING CROUP.

3. DIPPICULT AT THIS STAGE TO DEMIRNIE NOT 18!

ANY) CHARLES INVOLVED IN PLOT. THKES COOD POSSIBILITY FLAT

CHARLES NAS ONZY IXARD OF PLOT AND ATIEAPTINO TO ACT AB

BROKER EBTUKEN PLOTTERS AND U.8, COVINMENT fOR OWN INTERRETS.

IN HID 07, CHARLES USKD TIE BRUR-DES CHANNEL IN ATTRAPY

OUTAIN U.B. COVENTRY SUPPORT FOR ONE OF HIS POTE.

S. LAMING, PHU, HOTTRONID IN DES REPORT PROMAELY

IDENTICAL VITE ALPHONSE LANDI, FORMER DEPUTY TRON ARCANALS,

YBO IN JUK CO MAS REPORTED BY DES

1O BE CONSING PLOT

Continued.

mIne отов

BI CRET

N E OPHER IN THE MOLDO OPACH I PROMISI

---

## Page 62

494 ,

#Hy

#TH%

AD

Г

TOTAL CERTAI

BECRET

Oe m

BECRET

PACE THO

erre bensevan

WITH CINERAL CONSTANT, COLONEL BLAIN, AND OTERRE. CS

07376,

NO TRACES

EDGARD BONI, FLA PARS PEPORT TO ANRASBADOR BOBB. BOB EENDIME COPY

TO ARA/CAR.

REPORT POLLORS:

ONE OF THE UNDERGROWN OPPOSITION CROUPS ME MATTE

IS CUNTENED IN THE FOLLONITO INDIVIDUALS: LAMENE, THU (PORTER

DRPUTY, NOR IN BHI-HIDINO: COLONEL LEANER BLAIN (RRAD OF

ARIT QUARTERNASTER WARRIOCHRE); COLONEL CATARD (ERAD OF TAE

COAST GUARD): CORDITT, MAU (CHINY OF STATT). FIY WISH TO

CECITIZE A JUNTS, FOLLONITO DIS DRATH A LNTIRMRNY OF BASTIAN

PRESIDENT DUVALIER, AND BOICION POWER DURINO TRANBITIC

MELIOD. HOELCHING TRANSITION PERIOD, TELE CROUD MIRIE TO.

HATE FREE ELECTIONS AND THRA RITIRE FRON POLITICAL ACTIVITY,'

LAHEIS WOULD LIKE TO MECOME A INNISTER. MAIN FOULD LIKE

DIPLORITIC APPOINTENT, CAPARO MOULD LITE TO BETTRE TO MIA

CATTIS RANCI.. TIL COLD LAS IA PARTICULLR CAMDIDATE TOR

PRIDIT.

THIS COUP ALLICKS TINT IT COMMIDE IDE LUFPORT

-ANCHO ARIY PIESONUZ DO PORT AU PRINCE AND IN THE HAITIANN

WIN IT,IN COIN IN NIORIES WILLIE ME MORE ME MON

continued.

---

## Page 63

#dia

diPg

8BCAIT

OLE AUCTANAS DININTO

Dren

BECRIT

PACE TERKE

one octo

OTHER NOR HAITIAN POWER.

1027747

. WITIL RECTITLY, THE PLAN OF TIB CROUP TAS TO 8IT

BACK, WAIT FOR INTERNAL UPHRAVALA AND TRIN NOVE IN TO ASSUKE

POWS. THY DID NOT WANT TO ACT ON THRIN CIN, BUT PREFERRED

TO FUCK ADVANDICE OY AN INTERAL UPTATAL CRATED BY BONKBODY

1185.

8. TEN N09T NECKIT RUNOR CONCERNINO PRESIDHIS DUVALITE 'E

TRALTH HAVE, HOVIVE, CAUEND THE COUP TO CHANGE ITS MIRD.

THE MSHBIRS NO DECLARE THAT TIMI IS OF THE ISBRICE AND THAT

AB BOON AS PRESIDENT DUVALINE "DOSE ON THE OPERATING TABLE"

THEY WILL MON.

B THE GROUP RICOCHILLS, HOWVE, THAT COSIDERASLE

DIFTICULTIBI LIE IN ITS PATE AND IB MOST ANTIQUE TO DISCUSS TH

WITIRE MATTER IN BECKIT WITH A U.!. IIVOY. WHAT THY HAVE TO

ВАТ ТО ТНІВ ДРОТ Уз ПОВ КЛОНИ.

D: IN COUP HAS ORGANIEND THE FOLLOWING PROCHURE FOR

TE INVOY TO FOLLOW. VIINT, HE NOT BEID A CABLE TO T

TOLLOPING CARLE ADORRAS, BRULARAB, PORT AU PRINCE, BAITI.

COTT HUED. • ••

BECAT ELE

ACTION MY OTHER WEAR THIE

QUICE I PICH-UTED

---

## Page 64

HAs CARE

BECRET

O a man

O west Ti-

write i

SICILY:

PAC SOO

сто стаете

THR CABLE MUST READ AS FOLIONS:

CARBIED ON C10T DO E

DISCUBS THE BIBAL DRAB, PERATE BREARVE BOOK YOB BE AT THE BAHA

DOUCE, BOTEL." THE HAS DICKED TO PAY CABLE DOSE NOT MATTER.

THE CABIN ADORBSS SE TSAT ON BEZABLISATO LAIN-FAIN&

CO.. PORT AD FRINCE, BAITI, ESCOND, IS HUST REGISTER AT SI

BANI SOUCI AND AWAIT CALL QU VIBIT FUCH MAN HAHED EDGARD BONI.

BONT IN KRSIK BLANTS BROTHER. MAN DATOIAL PAMILY HANS 1E

"BOS"; BRAIN CHANGED HIB SAID, BOHE VILL BITERS BAKE TE

RITOY TO TALI TO CONSTANT ON WILL INPORA HIM OF ARRANGERT

MADE FOR THE INTARYLE, HIS COLY PRISON FABIRIT AT TUE

TUNE WILL I COMMIT AND TE MINEY. TED, I TE

JIVOY NESTH CONSTANT KE NOST INTALIKE HIS NORA MIDRA BY

BAYINO "' HAVE REEN B8NT BY IB. BIENNA 10 DISCONS BIBAL."

10, IT NOULD IN PARTERAILE, DUT NOT MANDATORY, IF TER

"SCART U.U, KIVOY VAS ABLE TO BURAI TRINE," (8ID OU REFORT)

11. PILE : soois:

PADOUCT IN OTHER DIAN DAL MOUNTS CACI I MECHANIO

---

## Page 65

14-0000Đ

BECRIT

C/HD

Ores nie

PACE NIVE

enu Duerer

oa 10 sy,

Babanoy 0ff1cer|

Chennre Josera Charles sold

Davalier.

los plot ag1oat

Da te of piot tay

that Daveller

advanced nou

1623741

слог

---

## Page 66

14-00000

DISPATCH

RUSSELITA

SEC3BT

FINESH E10

HEAD ME NETS

Chief, IN Division

• Subject of 301357029

References:

nr4 2401,

19 Asgast 1969

DIRECTOR 26288. 1 AugEst 1968

IP 1443, 29 July 1969

I. Hendquarters agrees with Station that the cou

tineed contact between Subject of 201-357029 and IDOl A.

on behalf of VODISH, poses a potential security threat

fOr the LIFARP cOnposents 1a EsitI.

Upon receipt of

BeI C, the Desk sent a menorandun to Chiel, TODISE,

19 Aurat 1969, which forwarded a resuse of the Bef C

Inforatios, and requested tiat the contaet between

Inal A and Subjeet on behalf of lODISH be termtrated.

On 1p Augunt 1969, the FODISE officer who 13 l

contet with iDka, replied

to the Desk's memorandan an

follows.

*. Ve (WODISH) have carefully comaldered the

Denk's comments re IDEN A and his relatlonship vita

Unbject.

Ve have concloded that in the atter of ti

mine questions concerning the activity of forelga

connies In Salti, IDa A ins been filty at

Jenst of sloppy security procedures ned (we) have

decided to modify our relattonship vith his.

object his nicer doubied sat was

represented a chamel to LIMP astharity which he

could use to applement his contacts with enters

of the LAPURE ItBIS ta Port au Prince. IDI A

Attehment: UNDER SKPIRATE COVE Contined.

Dlatrtbatte.

CROSS NEFERENCE ID

w/att w3/C

CUFUN SERENCE AND MONEN

FEPI-1347

ORTICADEN

SECEET

23 SEP 1960

17 Septerber 1901

SES ME BLUEN

301-357028

IS COPY

DRI

1* 5595

OFFICE STIBOR

GEESE I WAN

DANCE DINI

-÷ 358;

118-4-69%

WOO WEETH

DISPATCH

---

## Page 67

DISPATCH

NAC. ANO NUNUEN

CONTINUATION OF

DIATOM

SECREI

ATP -1347

was originally latroduced to TODISH in New York City:

by Bakject on 15 April 1966.

Until the early fall of

1967, much of VODISH activity with IDEN A as devoted

to arranzing contacts vita various elements of LYHARP,

which IDEY A requested on kehalf of Subject, and

reporting operational inforsation.

To the beat of

TODISE knobledge and belief,

however, none of these

contacts produced any tangible assistance to Sabject's

tarloes schenes.

witb two exceptions,

relationship with IDEN A since Octoter 1967 bas been

exclusively that of foreign intelligence collection.

The exceptions were Subject's request for a secret

meeting with a VOLADY eroy in lay 1969, and a=

Independent sinilar request from another grop in

As has been fully reported, IDEN A

made it perfectly clear to HODISH and to Subject

and to the other group that be vas acting only as

a channel and that he was not actively involved or

interested.

We (NODISH) simply transeitted the

He wish to point out that what the Desk

calls IDKI's

"Lottying" fer Subject ended before

Octater 1967.

During the nearly to years in

Which the contact in the WODISH Rew York Office

dealt with IDEN A, the latter has never sponsored

"lobbied" for Subject's various schemes.

has occasionally relayed Information concerning them,

but has told VODISH repeatedly that he

no longer

wishes to be imolved politically with subject.

He wish also to point out that IDIN A, as &

regular supplier of foreign Intelligence on E:lti,

bas supplled data which originate with baltians

other than Sabject, and,

therefore, IDEN A la not

merely subjeit's southpiece.

Specifically, IDE B

i IN: CArE NO dI IDIN A'5 Bitina sources.

IDK% B 1s a vell-known Baitian businesams; IDEN €

1s a lorer deputy.

We (TODISH) are not concerned with Sabject,

not helieve

that IIN A is Levolved in any current revolutionary

schese 1a Halti.

Ve are, bowever.

disturbed at the

anprofessloral ray in which IDEN A bandled the questlous

concerntaz foreign companies in Haiti.

We did not

request IDIN A to consalt Subject about the requirenent

on foreign companies and, in view of the maner in

which IDIN A bandled our requirements, we shall

contime only to accept information which he

on his return from his frequent trips to Haiti, and

sin11 refrain fron briefing him. Ve have requested

Our TOMOIP customers to give us an evaluation of

IDE! A's Intelligence reporting.

Unless this evalention

1s unfavorable, ve shall contine to exploit IDEN A

In the moner just descrited.

Insolar as contet

retreen IDOl A and Subject is concerned, (l) "e cannot

reveat IDIN A from talking to Subject (or anybody

else), but (2) ve have never in the past and shall

not in the luture requent that IDIl A contact Subject

on behalf of NODISH,*

To date, the VOROMP evalUAtIOS Of IDEA A'a

reporting has not been received.

However, since MODISH

Ins agreed to refrala from briefing IDAl A prior to any

future tripo be my ake to lalit, there should be no

rewrence of the type of ultution described in let C.

LLAMAPICATION

BECRET

VAN 900T

PAGE WA

CONTINEN

12

201-357

---

## Page 68

1-00000

Attachnent:

0/S/C

ПTPI-1347.

17

Sept

1968

IDENTITIES:

engliatist .....

PJ : 110™

85 COPY.

INC AMI TO ATP 1.347

2201 356632

---

## Page 69

14-00000

DISPATCH

CISFINA

8I CBST

PENISEN: ACTION

RATE FA MOOTE

CHI HURLIES-BOK

Calet, VI Division

Subject of 201-357029

ACTION ASCENES - MEFERENCES

References:

A.

B.

C.

D.

IPA 811. 19 AugEt 1950

DIRECTOR 26288, 6323,

I Augst 1969

29 July 1969

ATPA 3413, 39 July 1969

1. Hendquarters agzees w1th Station that the con

tinned contact between Sabject of 201-357029 and IDKI A,

on bebal! of IODISE, poses " potential secority threat

for the LAHARP components in Ja1t1.

Upon recept of

Rel C, the Desk sent a penrandus to Cher, lODISE, on

L August 1969, which formrded a remune of the Bet C

Information, and requested that the contact beseen

IDKIl A and Sabject on behalf of VODISh be terainated.

On 29 Anguat 1960, the VODISH.

officer who lo in

contact uith InSI, replied to the Dead's menoranden as

tallors.

Ve (VODISE) have carefally comidered tbe

Dest's coments re IDEA and his relationhip vis

Babject. Ve have concluded that In the matter of the

nine questions concerning the actluity of foregn

companies la Haltl, IDEN A has been guilty at

least of sloppy security procedures and (we) have.

decided to odily our reltionship with bla.

SabJect has aver doubted that IDEN A

represented a channel to LIBARP authority which he

coald use to supplement his contacte with membere

•I the UNRE stall 1n Port au Petece.

IDE A

Attnehment: KIDER SKPARASE COVER Contamed. ••

detribution:

3 - Port a Prince v/att 0/8/C

WH/T/HT

ПTРY-1347

BICEET

DATE

13 SE: K68

1T September 1909

301357025

ORICHIATAG

WH/T/HT/Bath Lehman:gt

COOR DULATEG

зАгЕ

on.

559$

PALASTES

OPIA STAROL

/ 220

DISPATCH

---

## Page 70

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CUSERICATION

SECRET

DISFATES ETHBOS AND NINEER

HXPI-1347

has fla

4A0»

un origimlly introduced to WODISH in lew York City

by Subject on 15 April 1966.

Until the early fall of

1967, auch of YODISH activity with IDEN A was devoted

to arranging contacts vith various elements of LIZARD,

Which IDEl A requested on behalf of Subject, and

repor t1ng operationel information.

To the test of

TODISH knowledge and bellel, however, nose of these

contacts produced any tangible assistan-e to sukjext"

various schenes.

Tita tuo exceptions, BODISH

relatlonship with IDE% A since Octoker 1967 bag ten

exclustrely that of lorelyn intelligence collection.

The exceptions were Sukject's request for a serret

meting with a VOLADY envoy in lay 1969, and an

Independent similar request fros another group in

the saze sonth.

As has teen fully reported, IDTH A

mde it perfectly clear to MODISH and to Subject

and to the other group that be vas acting only as

a chame and that he was not actively involved or

interested.

"e (WODISH) simply transmitted the

request.

le wish to point out that what the Denk

calla IDE's "Lottying" for Sulject ended tefore

Octoter 1967.

During the nearly two years in

Thich the contait in the NODISH New York Office

has dealt with IDEY A, tbe latter has never sponsored

"lobbied" for Satject's various scheses.

IDEA

Ins occasionally relayed information concerninz thes.

tat has told MODISH repeatedly that he so longer

wishes to be trioled poilthally with sabject.

Ve wish also to point out that IDEa A, as a

regular supplier of foreign intelligence on Balt,

has supplied data waich ori imte with initians

other than Subject, anc, therefore, IDEN A is not

Specificaiiy, It B

Bad IDEN C are twO Of IDEN A'S Maltian sources.

L B 1s a vell known isitian businessma; IDEN C

fe = former depnty.

Ve (spiet, are not concerned mità Sui ject,

but are very much so with IDEH.A.

Ve do not tellere

that IDEN A la lavolred in any current revolutionary

mebene in Ealtl. Ve are, bowever, distarbed at the

emprolessioal way in which IDEN A handled the question

concerning foreiza companies in Haiti.

we did not

request IDK A to consult Subject about the reguirement

on foreign compantes and, in view of the oner 1a:

which IDEN A handled our requirements,. ve shall

contime only to accept informtion which be proffers

on his return Iron his frequent trips to B:1t1, and

sill refrain tron briefing him.

We have requested

OT VOROMP cantoners to give un an evalention of

mal A's intelligence reporting.

Inleas this eva lettor

No malavorable, ve asall continue to exploit IDel A

Im the manner junt descrited.

Insofar as contact

Pertueen IDE A

and Sabject 18 concerned, (1) ve canmot

EmeNt IDal A fron talking to Subject (or anybody

«lne), but (2) ve here sever li the past and sali

mot la the future request that IDIl A compact sabject

on behal! al VODIsI."

To date, the VOROD coaluntion of IDEl A's

reportine has bot teen recelved.

However, since WODISH

man agreed to refrala fron trieftay IDEN A pilor to aay

future trips be may mie to Faltd, there should be no

recurrence of the type Of sitation described in Bel C.

LestreAnen

BICHIT

---

## Page 71

14-00000

Attachment: D/s/C

ETPY -1347,

17 Sept 1969

IDENTITIES:

---

## Page 72

14-00000

TO

ATTH:

: MALOU

UNTED STATES GO.CUMENT

Memorandum

Director, Domestle Contact Servie

SECRET

11/632-69

DATI:29 August 1969

Dcs Relationship with louie A. Bra

Bef: 14/7 Memorands, 28 May 69, and 19 Ang 69, name subject

Lo We have carefully considered ii/7'a comments ebout

Louis A. Brun and his relationship ith Cleard Joseph Charles.

have concluded that in the matter of the nine questions concerzinz

the activity of foreigy coopanies in Fa1:1 Brus has been guilty &

least of sloppy security procedures and have decided to modify our

relatlonship with his

.o. Charles has never doubted that Brun represented a

channel to US goverment anthority which be could use to suppierent

his contacts with pembers of the is babassy staff in fortoau-misce.

Brun mis originally faroduced to DCS in liew Yors, City by Charles or

15 Apr 1950 (see negorandon IX-251-66). Until the early fall o! 1907,

much of our activity with Brin was devoted to arranging contacts vitt

verious elements of the US fovercent, which Brur requested ou be-all

•* Cha-les, and reporting operational iwormation.

To the bes: co

our inowledge and bellet, korever, none of trese contacts prodiced ery

tangible assistance to Charles's various schemes.

With two exceptions,

our relationship with Srun since Cetober 1907 kes been exclusiveiy that

of foreige Intelligence coliectica.

The excepting vere Charles's

request for & secret seetlas with a US croy 1a l1y 1969 and 27 1,

dopenient siniler request tran arother group in the same month. As

has been fully reported, Brun sade 1t perfectly clear to us and to

Charies and to the otber grcup toat he was actirz orly as a cransel

and that he was not activeiy larsived or interested.

He sir:J +1375-

nitted the requesta. He wish to point out that seat li/? calis 3az'&

"Lobbying for Charles ended bezare October 1907.

Juring the tea l]

two years in which Mirchell sas seale with trio,

the datter bes bewar

sponsored or "Jobbled" for ChAries!» various seienes.

he has

occasionally relayed intoration conceraing them, but bas told u

repeatedly that he no longer idabes to be ivalved pallElonliy with

Charles.

SECRET

Bay U.S. Savings Bonds Regular on the Pappall Savings Plann

---

## Page 73

14-00000

SECRET

• 2 .

157/632-69

29 August 1969

3.

Ne wish olso to point out that Brun, as a regular

supplier of foreign intelligence on Haiti, has supplied date which

orielnate with faitians other than Charles, and, therefore, that

Brun is not serely Charles's nosthpiece.

Specifically, Louis

Leveque and Alfonse Latens are two of Brus'a laitien sources. Leveque

1s a vell-known liaitian businessman; Labens 18 & former deputy.

We are not concerned with Charles, but are very mich

so with Brun. We do not believe that Brus is involved in ary currest

revalutionary scheme 1n Haiti.

ke are, however, disturbed at the t

professional way in which Ern handled the questions concerning foreign

companies in Faiti.

Ne did not request jun to consult charles about

the requirements on foreign compantes and in view of the manner in wich

Brun handled our requirements ve shall contime only to accept intoma

tion sick he proffers on his return from his frequeat trips to Fait1

and shall refrain from briefto bin.

We have requested our Do/I

consters to give us an evaluation of Brun'a intelligence reporting.

Unless this evaluation is unlavorable, ve shall continue to exploit

Brun in the manner just described. Insofar as contact between Brun

and marles 18 concerned,

(a) we cannot prevent Brun fron talking to

harles (or anybody elge) but (b) ve have never in the past and shall

not in the future request that trun contact Coarles on behalf of Dc3.

6. Memo puss the forgoing infocition to air.

Alle:

Icils A. Brin, President

363 International Corporation

230 Flath Avene

Jew York City

SECRET

---

## Page 74

14-00000

Intelligence Information neport

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Falti

New Opposition Group Allied With

Cleard Joseph Charles/Ou-line of

Charles's Future Political Plans

COIPIDEETIAL

REPORT NO

•DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

Supplement to:

NO DISSEM ABROAD

& I HUG 1S69

2

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Opponents of Haltian President Franeois Duvalier have forned & new

political opposition grow.

The folloting are members: Colorel

Cayard (Commandant of the Faitian Coes: Guard); Captain

Daniel (essistant to Cayard); Gerard Constant (Faitian Army Chies of

2.

3*

and 00-5-321/14515-59 (pa-sgraph 3) Ian sonlier dete concerain.

some of the nembers of this group.

This group is now working with Cleard Joseph Charles and has

formulated, largely under the directico of the laiter, & tentative

political pian for the organization al = post-Dreller Hells, To

group is anxious to act, because some o? the sebers, notably Daniel

and Cayard, fear that they will be arrested in the not-too-discant

future.

The entire nesbe-ship displays, however, the trait cozon

to all Fastian opposition groups: they will not set until President

Daveller dies, becomes toally incapaciated or is overthrona b7

sobebody else. Jacques is an laportas: addition to the group.

1s completely loyal to President Duvalier, but has no use for we

other merbers of the Duvalier family. Consequently, he will play no

active part unless the President in some manner disappears Iron the

sCene.

This group still wishes to exercise pover during a transitional

period following Presides: Duvalier's departure A

Charles does not va= to hold arr political

expointent during this transition period, but plans to recover bla

position as the head of the initian Camber of Cornerce and travel

abrond, to raise noney for foreign ecoconie assistance to Faiti.

Be plans to establiss a political pary, to be imo as TOP (Iraval),

CONTIDERELAL

The dormantion of this decuman is lumed to cation

peployers

on the USIO anandar ageneva, and to have seniar officials el the member agences beta st let apon she defeativa

in accordance wis paragraph 8 of DCID 1/?, i may do remed la those somberans a ma desertenes

in he pading i i prosten a Menon ONCe IT SMALL NOT I DISSEMNATED TO CONTRALTORS DRiE

at the di

sone is partennel,

meldina consultants, under a contractunt minbenshp lo the li. & Gevernment what the triter

CHARLES

---

## Page 75

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUPIDEITIAI

-2-

Ordre, Progres). Charles kopes that TOP will become one of two or

three political parties in the post-Duvalier period and is convinced

that TOP will win a constisational vicory at the polla and propel

him to power.

In the meantime, Colosel Kesner Blain will be the head

of the provisional goverment.

Blain bag no long-range political

ambitions.

Charles and his colleagues plan & ner constitution for

Halts, which will provide for & President and for a Prime Minister.

The Prime Minister will exercise the effective pover.

Charles expecta

that TOP's electoral victory vill make his, as TOP's leader, Prime

Minister in the new constitutional goverment.

Reportelly, Charles recently received from the US (no adiltional date

available) the sun of US$230 thousand.

This money is to be used to

france the overthrow of President Duvalier. I cannot confira the

accuracy of this reported gift

-end-

.s..

CONFIDENT

IA I

---

## Page 76

BOUTAG AADION INITIALS • BEER

ands

WITHT

1349-5595

21 AUGUST 1969

CHOLE SICRETARLAT DIASTARMATION

CON:

W18

elene. va.

SECRET

D INSER

О по тоех

• PILE IN CO PULA NO. -

I BETURN TO in

-I SBANCH

SECRET

-70

919

ponte and flam liber)

53 2 Huo 69

(011t9)

probaraste grabery

CITE DIRECTOR

37845

17

AKULE DONOPS EVMEND

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR

31844•

END OF MESSAGE

Ist

R/0-

see

*Cable Secretariat: Fia insert biR number.

C/ D0I/2

DEMARIO OFFICE

AC/WED

COORDIBATIIO OFFICERS

SECRET

shralet en

МІНЕТІСАТИ

DUPICEI

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE INSUUNG OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

ChARlES

con mall

---

## Page 77

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES!

SECRET

ROUTING

WHO/O KAMALE

Olds

arts

LET:

DATES

WHAT/AT

1349-5595

21 AUGUST

1969

CARE RECHETARIAT DISSEMINATIONA

COmF

• IMDEX

• NO INDEX

• FILE IN CO FILE NO. -

BAANCH

10118

folitel

--то

WIT

(einstficationg

SECRET

Idote and thn filed)

Chief

LICITE DIRECTOR

2121

53 z Nud 69

ARULE DONOPS EVEND

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 26288

110 Cut My CONTACT

I. ON 21 AUGUST, IDEN, WODISE NEW YORK REP WHO HANDES

RR

LOUIS A. BRUN, SUBJECT OF REF, PHONED WODISE WASHINGTON

OFFICE TO INQUIRE IF SYKEND-I OR THE BHEND ORGANIZATION

WAS OF INTEREST TO RVROCK. BASIS FOR INQUIRY IS THAT BRUN

HAS REPEATEDLY MENTIONED TO IDEN THAT EVENDI AND HIS

ORGINIZATION ARE DEEPLY INVOLVED IN EXILE WORK IN NEW YORK

AND THAT BRUN SUSPECTS THEY HAVE SOME CONNECTION WITH

RVROCK. WODISH REPS SPECULATE THAT BRUN SEEKING CON-

FIRMATION OF RVROCK CONNECTION AND THAT BRUN MAY TRY

PENETRATE EVMEND ORGANIZATION.

2. WODISH WASHINGTON REP WAS INFORMED THAT EVSEND-1

AND HIS ORGANIZATION ARE OF INTEREST TO WOMACE AND THAT

IDEN SHOULD REFRAIN FROM MAKING ANY CONTACT WHATSOEVER

WITH THEM. WODISH AGREED PASS ABOVE TO IDEN AND SUGGEST

WODISH RELATIONS WITH BRUN BE DISCONTINUED.

3. IN VIEN ABOVE, REQUEST CLELAND TELL SYMEND 1

CONTINUED. •

COORDINATINO OFFICERI

MARI OPHICAN

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

---

## Page 78

14-00000

MESSAGE FOUN

TOTAL COPES:

SECBET

HOUTIRE AND/D IS TIALS - TEEN EY

14763

EXT:

CAHLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIMATION

#V

PER

COW:

D INDER

• RETURN TO

- MANCH Cram

FILE.VM.

(ar immedication)

SECRET

politel

_(pical

adate and time foled)

PAGE THO

CITE DIRECTOR

7.31844

DROP ANY CONTACT HE MAY HAVE WITH BRUN, SINCE BRUN SUSPECTS

FEE CONNECIED WITH RUROCK AND MAY BE TRYING CONTIRM.-

4. FILE: 36-124-25/3.

END OF MESSAGE

WE CONKENT:

BRUN, who collaborator of Clenard Joseph

CHARLES on political natters

in Haiti, is

contact of VODISH, N.Y. office.

DOI/E

COOIOERATIO OFFICERS

8 EC BE T

slams Lisa in

EPRODE -TON MY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

cam ne

---

## Page 79

SECRET

15 AL3 S63

MORAIDUl FOR: Director, Domestle Contact serviee

SUBJECT

DCB Case 47540 - Contact oith

Louts A. Brun/Clenard Joseph Charles

1. On 29 July 1969,l

Jadvised

that Cleard Joseph Charles had passed & list of nine

questions concerning the Haitian economy to an official

of the United States Ambassy in Port au Prince.

The liat

of questions vas written in English in staadard U.B.

Goverment format and, although sterile, appeared to be

inteligence requirementa.

Charles told the Embassy

official that he had just fleished a "big job" for the

Pentagon and laplied that the list also case fron the

Pentagon•

The Labassy offictal suspected that Charles

had passed a copy of the liat to the Kational Palace.

On 2 Aurust. & reure

tive of the WHattl

Desk contactedl

Etait of ius, and learned that thel

had briefed Mr. Louls A. Brun and had orally passed a

sist of CIlL requirements to Brun concerning Haiti prior

to hle toln to halts during the week of 21 july.

speculated that Brun had probably noted the

IS requirements on paper and then had passed a copy

to Charles upon his arrival in Haitl.

S. For a number of years, the United States Govern

ment has been avare of the political anbitions of Charles

and his alleged plotting to overthrow the Duvaller regime.

In 1067, the rather open plotting led to his imprison

ment for over one year.. Also, since lay 1963, Charles

has been trying to obtain support fron the United States

Government for his plots but he has been consistently

rebaffed.

Charles is not held in high esteen by u.s.

0111c1als and ble notivos are highly quentionable.

owen his position in Haits to his relationhip "1th

Duvalter and his ability to vuccessfully no sore of

SECRET

Chaelies Yell

---

## Page 80

---T

the more notorious financial rackete of the regle.

marles enjoys no political folioring and even the lou

with nich he is associated are viewed with considerable

reserve.

for example.

ve hate never been able to confir

that Charles me Involved with the "ilitary junta" formed

Im May 1963, as be clained. In February 1959, the U.8.

#abassy In Port au Prince comented that, Fith regard to

the most recent plotting of charles, "the possibility

ennnot be exclured that Charles... Corld be 1 morochtlon

to detoratne the real notives of the United States Govern

ment torards the Duvaller reglne." "e concur in the

Ibars's view.

1. During the past three yeers, the l Division Eas

been Lept adviaed of the contact botween DCS and Brun and

his relationship vith Charles.

We are also avare from

DCS and cther sources of the

efforts by Brun to obtain

support fron the United States Government for Charles.

Brun 18, of Course, a close collaborator of Charles and

a businees representative of his in New York City.

Brin

has contacted officials of the Depertment of Defense,

the Department of State, and even a person with access to

Presicent Johnson on Charles" behalf.

The Chief of

Carlbbean Affairs of the Department of State c-tegorically

told Brun in June 1967 that the United Btates Goverment

vas not interested in supporting the plots of Charles or

anyone ele gainst Duvalter, but this advico seems to

have fallen on deaf eary.

The most recent example of

Brun's lobbylag une ia lay 1969 when Brun passed on to

DC3 & request from Charles for a secret neeting between

• U.3. cavoy and a representative of the "nilltnry jurta."

Brun"s Involvement with Charles requires that he be cou

midered a biased source of Infortlon.

While some of the

Information Brun baB

obtained fron Charles has been of

Interest, there is tardly anything that vas not mallable

through other channels and indeed, mch of it vas slanted.

5. An wis set forth 1s M/7 neuranda to the

Operational Support Stall, DCS, on 16 July 1968 and

28 May 1989, ve Intorpoe no objection to DCS untan

contact with Ern for 1tn on purposes. However, the

---

## Page 81

14,00000

CECRET

Polatlonship bo:rron Brus anc Charles ans now takes ou

«perntlonal charactoriatica (sgent/rab agent) sita Brun

levylog requiresente on Charles in Faitt to service oa

behalf of bcs.

The relatlership between Brun and Charles

also has manifested political and security aspecte valen

could adversely affeet the interests of the United Statem

Government regarding Ral!1. decordingly, ve requent

that the coutact betwees Brue and Carles on behalf el

DCs be ternlaated.

DDP/TET/Et:

DistrIhtio::

1

Addresnee

C/EDD

WHT/Et Chrone

I/legistry

- TH/7/HT (CHARLES)

- 3.

SECRET

---

## Page 82

DISPATCH

CLASSICATIOU

SECRET

Chiet, Western Henisphere Division

FONSENS ACTION

MARIES FOR MOLENG

NS NICOONG RESIS

OILY DAUSER DESE

o Subject ot 201-357029

ACTICE REQUIRES - HEPERSNCES

REFERENCES: A DIRECTOR 26288 dated 1 August 1969

B. HTPA-2443 dated 29 July 1969

ACTION REQUIRED: See Paragraph 5.

1.

The Station would like to offer its views on

the WODISi contact, through Identity of Paragrash 1

Reference A (hereinatter IDEN),

with 201-357029, as well

as co the question of the requirerents which 201-35/029

gave LIFLE and which were forwarded to Headquarters in

Reference B.

Since IDEN has been told that his contact is with

LESHOE and since he has

told 201-357029 that fact, and since

201-357029 has apparently, in his sind at least, converted that

fact into contact with RVROCK, and has probably spread both

stories with his associates and thereby throughout the local

milieu, ve have, in eifect, a dangerous security situation.

When we consider that the LNPURE receives all the information

bat 201-35/02y gives iD anyway

and

mosc of the time receives

ne fnformation directly Iron 201-35/029, then we have a

operation that is difticult to justity.

3.

In the case of the requirements forwarded with

Reference B, we have a situation in which WODISH levied

requirements on 2U1-357029, through IDaY.

then turned those requirements over to LNPURE which returned

then via 201-357029 and IDEN to SCDISH. Why not cut out che

middleman and the security complications, and save the headaches?

The Station teels that the ECDISH handling of 201-357U29

results in a case that has the potential of causing severe

problens for AKULE, and that it could well be that AULE will

ne made to bear the blame since elements within RVROCK might

feel that the ultimate responsibility tor supervision of the

case lies with AKULE.

Distribution:

CS COM

3 - CAHD

TPA- 2457

GUESNOT

SECRET

19 August 1969

201-357029

---

## Page 83

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

MAIN: 11M 11042108 889

HTPA-2457

be would appreciate obtaining Headquarters vleus

on our thoughis as expressed above as well as on what seems

to be a contradiction between Reference A, paragraph 2 and

the evidence presented in Reference B Attachment.

It appears

unlikely to us that IDaN could have typed the Attachment.

in: ;

asto

53€

MERSUS EMO

•SECRET

201- 357029

CONTINEO

2

---

## Page 84

FEI DOCUVENT

DATE: 17 AUGUST 1952

CLASSIFICATION: RONE JIVEN

SUBJECT: CLEVARD JOSOPH CHARLES

FEI FILE TO: 105-6311 (MIANI)

DFPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-134

DATE: • 13 AUGUST 1969

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDEXTIAL

FROM AMEVEASSY PORT AU PFINCE

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL, ACTTVTTIES OF CLEVARD

JOSEPH CHAFIES

---

## Page 85

Crig 4,69

ARNOLANDEN FOR: Chiel;. Domestle Contact Service

SUBJECT

8 DCS Case 47540 - Contact with Louls A.

Brun/Clenard Joseph Charles

1.

On 39 July 1961

advined

that Closard Joseph Charles had passed a list of nine

quentlona concerning the Haltian econouy to as official

of the Unlted Staten Embassy in Port au Prince.

The list

of questions vas uritten in Inglich in standard 5.B.

Covernment forbat und, although aterile, appeared to be

intelligence requirements.

Charles toid the Entassy

officlal that he had just finished a "11g jot" for the

Pentagon and implied that the list also came from the

Penta gon

The Babausy official suspected Chat Charles

had paneed a copy of the list to lie National Palace.

8. On & Aumat. & representative of the WH/Halti

Deck contacted

Staff of Dor, and learned that tbeL

and brlefed Mr. Louln A. Frun and had orally passed a list

of CIRL requiresenta to Erun concerning Ibiti prior to bin

trip to Baltl during the neck of 21 July.

upeculated that Brun had probably noted the dos requirementa

oa reper and then had paused a copy to Charled upon him

oreloal in Haltd.

3.

for a mher of yeurs, the Calted Staten Government

hme been avare of the political ambitions of Charles and

his alleged plotting to o'erthro the Du aller regine

196%, this sather open plotting led to his imprisonmone for

over

ose year

Alno, Bince May 1963.

Charles has been trying

to obtain support from the United States Coverament for his

plota but he has teen consistently rebuffed

Charles is not

hold in high enteen ly U.S. o!flciale und his sotives are

highly questionablo

He owes his position in Halts to him

reintionhip with Duvalder and his ability to successfully

manage none of the sore notor 10u

finnnelal rackets of the

regime

Charles enjoys no political following and even the

"plota" with which he ts associated are viewed with ron-

olderable reserve

Por exasple, "e

have never been able to

confirm thet Charles

involved with the "nIlitary junta"

formed 1a lay 1960,

be. clalaed.

In February 1969, the

520207

861357028

"Charles duff file

---

## Page 86

14-00000

U.S. Rabanny 1n Port au Prime comented

that, uith regard

to the sout re ent plotting of Charles, *the

possibility cannot

be excladed that Charles

could be a pro: oration to determine

the tell noti:es

of the United States Corernment toward the

Duvalier regime "

We comar in the labassy's & Jews.

During the pout three years.

the VH Diviaion bas

been kept adrined of the conta:& tetween DCS and Brus and

hie relationsalp vith Charles

We are also avare from

DC3 und other sourres of the etforts ly Prun to obtain support

from the United Staten Coveranent for Charles

Brua 18, o%

course, a close ‹ollaborator o! Charles and a businees

representatire of his in lew York City

Brun ban contacted

offlila!s of the Department o! Drlerse.

the Department of

State, and

even a person

with a.cess to President Johtson

on Charles' behalf

The Calel ol Cariblean

Affate of the

Department of State categorally told Brun

in June 1967 that

the United States Government

was not interested In supporting

the plots ol Charles or anyose else aginat Duvalier. tut

this rosire seen to have "allen on deat ears

The nost

recent emaple o! Brun's lothying was 1n May 1969 when Bran

passed on to DCS a request from

Charles fo. a se-ret nceting

onioy and a represcatative of the "ollitary

junta"

vith Charlen requires that he be

conuidered a blaned asurre of inforetion

While some of the

inforuntidh Brun

ins outnior trom Charles ino been of

Interest, thre 18 hardly saything tost sad not asailable

through other channels and indeed, sach of 1t was slanted

Operational Support State, Dou, on 16 July 1988 am 38 My

1960.

ve Interpone no objection to Da saintaining contact

wIth Brun for 1t0 can purposes. Hoverer, the relationehiy

betwees Bran

and Chorles bas nou taken on operation!

characteria

tica (arent/sub-reat) with Brun levying require.

W1 TH

os

Haltl to service on behnit of DCS.

The

relationship

Bron and Charles alao bs maifented

pol1t1cal

security aupecta which rould ad ersely affert

the Interent of the United States Governent regarding Falt%.

Accordingly,

we requent that the contact between Brun and

Clenord Jocept Charles on behalf of Dos be terminted.

Western Benlaphere Divialon

SECRET

---

## Page 87

14-00000

BOU ANG ATTICA INITIALS • SEEN BY

OH@:

EISH LEDIAN; aVg

13/7/HT

EAT'S

DATE:

5595/1349

1 SEGUST 1969

CABLE AECRITHALAT DLSSEMUNATICN

DieR

COm:

LiNg

S-3-C-Ä-E-T

DIS INDEX RETURN TO - :

- BRANCH. DELERO

(ad endication)

S - E-C-R-E-T

loat and fine filed)

CITE DIRECTOR 52881

To

REF:

6323 (IN 12581) *

1. PER REY REQUEST, ONE LUIS BRUS, WELI KNOWN COLLABORA-

TOR OF SUBJECT REF ON POLITICAL MATTERS IN HAITI, IS CONTACT

OF VODISE OFFICE, NEW YORK. PRIOR TO BRUN'S TRIP TO FAITI,

WEET OF 21 JULY, FODISH BRIEFED BRUN AND ORALLY PASSED LIST

OF CIRI REQUIREYENTS ON BAITI. FYI, BRUN BELIEVES WODISE

CONTICT IS FROY DEPENSE AD THAT REQUIRPIENTS LEVIED DE DOD.

2. IT WODISE BELIET THAT BRUN PROBABLY NOIED REQUIRE=

MISNTS ON PAPER FOLLOWING BRIEFING, AND PASSED COPY TO SUBJECT

REF UPON HIS ARRIVAL IN HAITI.

AN

AB

3. FYI, SUBJECT REI WAS REGISTERED IN INTERAGENCE

SOURCE REGISTER UNTIL 17 MARCH 69, WERN ACSI TERMINATED HIM,

$$

WITHOUT PREJUDICE. SUBJECT WELL KNONN FOR HIS REPEATED

ATTENPTS OBTAIN USG BACKING FOR HIS C

HE PLANS TO

OVERTEROR DUVALIER.

Continued

CS COPY

COORDINATING OFFICER

S-E ST-E•I

CTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISNU OF ICE IS PROHIBITED.

2-120

•F7

wH/z

CHARRE

201-357029

AUITHENTICATI

OFFICER

come me

---

## Page 88

38168

SIT:

JATE:

CONF:

BOUTING AND/ON INITIALS BEEN EY

TOOL SOF

S-E-C-R-E-T

-SEr

Duran is fy 67 orch

Piniest

-HED

FILE . WRO

.(e11t0)

(Rical

(and died Rica (hens)

jaloasification)

S-E-C-R-E-T

CITE DIRECTOR 26288

PAGE 2

MODISH BRIEFED ON CONTENTS REF AND PROMISED TARE CORRECTIVE

ACTION.

FILE:

201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

#WH Comment:

Clerard Joseph CHARLES passed list of questions -

to ELBOFF re Baitian economy.

Advised Emb.

he had finished "big job" for Pentagon. Advise

11 11at of VOrIRi origIn.

WILLIAT V. BROE

. C/ED

S-E-l-P-E-T =

REPRODUATION BY OTHER THAN THE INTUIRIC NEFICE IS PROMIATED.

and its

AUTHENTICANAU

OFFICER

---

## Page 89

BLE SECRETART Dest

FROW UNT HOTHED

Fan WASSIGE

SECRET -ET

ATHA BY

JHANCECO

SLOTTED

30

PACE

apisur то тий по

FRE NO INTO

OESTICYLLG

DAD COPY

MuRra RIlAN DOt DDP ADOP CiNO 5Z CI

WH8

F402

SECRET 29205 E JUL

60 CITE

DIRECTOR INFO

6323 RACICOI ACTING)

29 J 69 • 12581

ARULE DONOPS EVMEND

L I GLENARD JOSEPH CHARLES PASSED TO EMBOFF COPY OF LIST

OF 9 QUESTIONS WRITTEN IN EXCISH DEALING WITH HAITIAN ECOTOMY •

PERTIONED HE HAD JUST FINISHED "BIG JOB" FOR PENTAGON AND

IMPLIED LIST ALSO CARE FROM PENTAGON. ALTHOUGH STERILE, QUES-

TIONS WRITTEN IN STAVARD GOVERMPENT FORMAT AND APPEAR TO BE

INTEL REQUIREMENT So

1.24

LIST TO HQS OSLY PER HI PA 2443 DID

29 JULY SINCE CAUNOT DUPLICATE LOCALLY VOULD APPRECIATE

LEARNING IF LIST IS OF VOFIRM ORIGIN. FYI ERBOFF SUSPECTS

CHARLES HAS PASSED LIST AT PALACE AND STATION THEREFORE FEELS

SECURITY ASPECTS RE HANDLING CHARLES BY ANY USG AGENCY SHOU.D

BE REVIEWED • SINCE CHARLES HAD PASSED LIST TO EMBASSY FOR

ANSVERING OF QUESTIONS, IT WOULD APPEAR "INTELLIGENCE" COULD

HAVE BEEN OVERTLY OBTAINED.

?. FILE: 201-357029.

SECEET

SECRET

---

## Page 90

DISPATCH

CUASSAFCANOM

SECRET

Chief, Western Henisphere Division

PROCESSONG ACTION

MARKED FOR MEEKHE

NO BIOCKENG ACCLARES

OIRT QUALFIED DESH

CAN JUDGE NICOLEG

MACROFEM

Subject of 201-357029

ACTACU BEGLARED - REFERENCES

REFERENCE:

6323 dated 29 July 1969•

Per Reference attached is the list of questions

given Subject.

Attachment:

As stated above (h/w)

Distribution:

3 - C/AHD w/att h/w

CS COPY

latt

BOSS RENEUCE 10

SUDGE AND

HTPA-2443

GASTRANG

SECATI

29 July 1969

NES PRE MONE

202-257020

---

## Page 91

14-00000

US zena mers are settire up substay coupanies 19 18101 Or 90=9-605

paterstro Wich Fal-'an enterprises to Froduce such Itess as underver, base-

calls, [coricar out other export lters. Iney use ¿altian Ia:1lltles ani mater-

1alo sented fros the US.

do lat apoclile companies are lavolved in producias ebase gurds,

2. Are trote yospiess that otber curandas ere entertag use fiole

eterials)?

lo wIll tiece enterialses expand? lor laportant void 16 be 9

2111 19 Lose entor tires exandell discontesad moticsion

to at an are proda?

So laat meerials are laported to produca ta final producet itai

TAJJO LE tO CANST: TOOLS TO CULE ERICLES JOTLE FIRETA.

To Lou do se dobertle scalers and to li importaTe Poel abort

-GeniE IT Prosidest Duvalier to there any AlfPlenition!

I lena bega operatingi

B. Does the Inition vorterg lach of education niTect their

012100.

mperera cantalbura to tan social sturity fund

HwarIHTPA-2++3

201 - 357029

---

## Page 92

14-00000

SECRET

28 Play 1909

NEA IDON FOR :

Director, Dowstle Costaet Bartlee

Operational Sapport 8tal1

ATTENTION

ВСВ ЛСТ

Des one 47560 - Request by haitian

Orpanition Coap for Secret Interter

518h 0.8. 0181clal

1. This zomnius vill vero to confire the telephom

correrantloss botreen your office and the Chie! of 1se 10181

Desk on

15 and 27 lay 1989 concerniag tbe request sede

112-50

shrough l. Louin A. Bras on the above subject.

conversations, your silice ma adulued that the VI Division

Daa nO LItereSt lE COaLICIlS any reprosentative or sente:

of the plottles conD.

3. The VA Division considers Cleard Josept Charles

to be a perennial anti-arallar plotter in Port au jalace

with little mace or following to carry out bis anti-govern

Durtag the veer of ll lay 1969, Carrlea

approached die Batasay la Port as PilAce vith basically Chu

mast Inforation as relayed to the

by Me. Bean.

Tan only difference was that be did not request

that a U.8. Governent oillcial mke contact with the lateral

1 270

Isol the U.S. Coverent would loot benerolently on tie troop

launcaed.

The untassy

replied that the

U.8.

Government bad a fire polley not to

Intervene 1n each

untters and that no sach asmurance could be maprctee.

3.

Since 1967, Charles has made slailar oerteres to

the D.S. Coversant i05 sappore of bia anti-government plane.

Uben rertenlas these approoches, tsere has slays bees som

doubt as to the accuracy of the Inforation

that Charlen

(or Bean) me lursiabre. Thile

an accepted that Chirles

ma stully Plotting agine Duvaller, 18 conlo errer be

deteratard 1! se

wan actually a arnber of the plotting trout.

which unnily included umbere of the Halthan Arty, or 11

Charles had alaply Lecon aware of sa anti-Duvaller Bles aar

was trylog to

act ns a troker betueen the plotters and the

2025

SECRET

---

## Page 93

SECRET

- 1-

VoU. Overrat for lie en laterenta.

d. At to rosent tine, tally rellable reporte have

men rocoired tsat cortala officiale of the Balilna dre

marthIc Duvallor, should la

recover, but no far have du?

entabilated a sinor:le on deelded how they latred to carry

out the coup.

Also, ise Illness of Duvalder has undoubtedly

Inspirod aall-Duvalier plottleg by other groupe la tales

bat no rollable la'o-ration to available on thels pleas. It

la Interestlag to sose tat Cleard Joseph Charles La not

Idestitled so s plotter la an o1 lan reports fran laternal

As vis mintlosed ln the MY memorandun dated

16 July 1868, De do sos inserpode asy objoetica to 503

Final tant la the intoronto of cocurity and also la coo

BEEE

formance wIlD U.8, poiley, that Bona should clearly ander-

stand Shad ve sive no laterest in establlshing contaet eith

ang soster of the toreral croup throact bla chaaned and

further son? the 0.8, ¿vermost sas no intorous la Doconiag

Livolved la an ansi Doraller activities.

Distribution:

Or 1g & I

—Addresne

-WIT

8 - 8H/T/IIT (CHARLES 811E)

SECRET

---

## Page 94

C UNCASSIFIED

SUMECT: (Optenef

USE OWLY

• CONFIDEN. AL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Bequest by. Faitian Opposition Group Por Secret Interview

SECRET

2268

10:

boiling)

mone mad

DO/DCSL

NILAL

RECER ED

FORWARDED

/2z

264465

% 00

Case 47540

23 May 1969

to shere

For your information.

3 3 000l Eg.

%

30.

ilo

12

POIN

Д-d1

610"O"

SECRET

COMFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE QULY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 95

11

2320 Budd

31=

toi al indetti la trie dira

animialinio apria 1ia1i1058d6 Jee35 benôcista

6. 1. !'

LINES

90000-D1

---

## Page 96

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

•SECRET

USE OWLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUMECT: Optial

Clemard Joseria Charles

1Oh Offer designatien, mom

marions, and

RECENED

DATE

INFALS

PORWARDED

NO.

2268

Case 47540

DATE

21 May 1969

COMMENTS a line to as chan do too to many

to whore

DO/DOSTE

3 B 0001 Ene

DC/WM/7

For your information and file.

WHIT/HT

SECRET/SENSITIVE

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE QULY

UNCLASSIFIBO

---

## Page 97

MASELS A PERSONAL FALLOUTER CE TRIVIALE COMES OPPONE ME THE

IMPREATIVE AUD THAT DIVALIEDS OVESTUDAY MICT 4ID CAN DE NCOUPLISTED

DUDING TWE MONTH OF JUNE 196S0 ME HAS SET A I JULY 1969 SEATLIME

FOP TUE ACCOMPLISUMENT OF MIS SOAL. CHARLES HAS ALSO STATES THAT

VITES POESUMATLY,. HE DEFEDS TO DUE DO MOTE DE TUOSE GORUPS LISTED IM

MAY TRY TO ACT REFODE ME CAM. CHAPLES LISTS NO

REASON FOR THE SPECIFIC TIME LIMIT OF 1 I'LY 1999.

20 CHAPLES YAS DECLESTED THAT THE PENTAROS" CAPECIFICALLY, MIS

FAUNT TO TALY TO MIM. ME LAYS DOWN NO

MIS I ME THE MINE AND

Na23 SEM 1S30036 Sin •30Nlad-lc-lcod al mili O1 AIrs 7714 Alarmissad

LATELED "JONENT""

- END

SEC "IT SENSITIVE

---

## Page 98

SUOJECT OF DOCUMENT

AN AA V ฿T

18. CHOIS BITCHOTO FO THIS CULE

SECRET

f,3Ian8 I000

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

L'OCLAEAT IDENTIFICATION

mA FILE NO.

DISPATCH ƠM

sorrier Doc.

srison ano

PHOCESSE0

saves neros afo pass as invai

D DTSSEMINATID IN

I. BATE

DOCUMENT WIIRSSITION

THAN SERGIO TO

PERTINENT IN CAMATION

"DADAVID

CHAÄLES, CLEMAND JOSEPH

201-357027

SEX. " NUB ?

CIT

HAIT!

OCC ?

& HAITI

MAR OF OPPUSITION GP.

136-009-106

PRIA-J0024

43 MAY 69

HOCUNDHTP

•R 6907311254

RI

FILE IN 201-

357029

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

PAN BOT ONE POEMONA ADITIONS.

SECRET

---

## Page 99

69h020

•031V779835 X9T71

WITH US CREICIAL

1:. OSE O5 THE INDEEDOND OPPOCITIOI CROUPS TO MATT! IC

CENTERES IN THE FOLLCHING COIVIDALGE BU LATES OPE LAYERS

STATO LAG QUENGE 12A0706 1d52Sa6r266. 021SYno21a5Ao dast so 66316.

THEY VISH-TO DISLIZE A JUITS, FOLLINI'S IYE DEATH D7 FETIRRTENT

OF MAITIA"' PRESIDENT DIVALIER, AND SYRACIRE POVER BUNTIE A TORISITION

PERIODO FOLLOYIUS THE TRSGCITION PERIOD, THIS COP MICHES TO YALE

MES ELIMTIONS MID THEY PETIRE FROM FOLIFICEL ROTINTY. LAVENEELE

LIST. TO RECOME A IVISTER® ELAIN MOULD LIVE A SIFIDATIC APFCINTHETT.

PAYARD PSILE LIXE TO RETIRE TO HIS CATALE SANCE THE SPOUP Y4G 30

"PARTICLE? CANDIEUTE FOR FOESIDENT.

2O THIS ENDUP ALLEGES TYA? IT COM"ATOS WIDE SUFPOPT AROUS APHY

FEPSONNEL IN POST-AL-PRINCE AND IY TIE MITIA" HINTEFLAND.

TYE SPOUR IS PEPOGTEOLY VILLING TO MORE GITH ANY OTHER CPPOSITIOY

SOOUP, EXCEET THE COMMNTISTS SIT IT DOE; SCT URIT TO APPEAS

PPLICLY SHOLDEY TO THE US DO TO ANY CHE? "SPIRITINY POVER.

3 TRITIL RECUTLY, THE PLAS DE THIS POND WAS TO SIT RACE, VAIT

DED INTERIAL UPHEAVALS AUD THEN MOVE IN TO dESITE POUR?O THEY DID

UNT MATT TO RET MY TUEI? CYS, BUT PREFETRES TO TAVE ADUAITAGE OF "

---

## Page 100

14-00000

"rvE,

SO THE MOUP RECOSMILES, HONEVER, TRY COUSTOEDAOLE DIFTICITIEE

LI IM ITS PATH MID TO LAST ANKING TO DIUOUS THE ENTICE CATTEE I!

POCRET SIT A 13 DOY CAT TURY MAE MY TO THIC EVOY 19 10T

K:0%

GO THT. ROMP ING GRRACIESE THE FOLLOWING PROCSPIPE TO? TUE DNISY

TO FOLLO% FIRST, LE MIST SEND A CALE TO TEE FOLLOUISS CARLE

ADDRESS: STSLAVAS, PORT-AT-SRICE, MAITIO THE CALE MUST DEAD 1S

TOLLONS: "ASSIVING CY CLIST DATES TO DISCUSE TE DISAL CALA PLENGE

RESDAVE. € 203 FOR ME AT THE SANS SONCI MOTEL, THE MANE SIGNER TO

THE CARLE DOES POT "ATTERO THE CABLE MONEZTE IS THAT OF ESTATLISO EITE

LAMENSTLAIN e CGO, POPT-LO-PRINCE, GAITI, SECOND, HE MUST RESISTER

RPT DOSI. B0VI IS KESTURE CLAINS DACTRES TIE PRIGINAL TAILY NE

IS "RO"IS; BLATN CYANCES HIS NATE. POMI "ILE ENTIRE TAYS THE ENVOY TO

TALK TO COUSTANT GU MILL INFDOG HIM BE ASDANDENZATE MADE FOR THE

ITS SO T IN 0 NO SA TO IN.

A'ID THE ENVOYS THISD, VEN TUE EUDY SATE CONSTANT ME MUST ESTATLISH

HIS ROSA FIDES OPT DONA FIRES CY SAYISE "Y LATE REEN SENT

BY MPO EISESHCHER TO DISCUSS SISAL'. TIP MEY MORP IS "SISSYHONER".

TO: IT WOULD DE PREFERABLE, PUT NOT PAYCATORY, 15 THE SECRET I'S

---

## Page 101

14-00000

ENYOY VAS APLE T. SPEM: F2I101

S ZCR

E TASLRSITICO

---

## Page 102

Intelligence Information Repurt

52759977

'CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

SURECT

Falta

Repeated Finel Ters for dread of

Gestling Corcession/ Mend

Joseph-Charlen Inal nest

COIIIDIAL

REPORT NO.

- DATE DESTR

NO PAGES

LEFEIENCES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

₴ 1 APP 1969

do As jat of his earst to orzin foreiga exchange, Falti's President

Duvalien has decided to ani a frolina emcession. A lS sydicate,

for additional details,/.

Ie Alshop has severed his cosections tits Reynote, Which boabarder

resident Diralter vits telegans end sade an thennounced trip t

Ente to obtain the concess.lo

hat they mosid sos receite ice coucessica Fresidest Duvalle

relies very beavily upon bacé for edrice mad guidance in econonde

natters •

hoost at the see tire seat Ityaote receired André's telegres,

Cleari Joser-Jarles bositied the Estep tent be vuld re-

eette the ecssessian Ga sce fallowing teras:

' Be

A new group of associates el the Ishop will receiv

O percent of the puss recetras arom the concession

Do

The Covertent Cl Salti Will receive 10 perceut of the

Bross recelsts.

Co The Blshop and His chief partoer vill receive five pr

cent of the gross receipts.

COIPIDEITIAL

1E

uSa

---

## Page 103

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COTTILITIAL-

NO DISSEM ABROAD

the recaining fire percent of the cross receipts will be

used by tie lisbo?, reportediy tre isltiaa supervision,

#to begia constructica of secools and calli care centers

In Exitio Tiese secoois and certers vill be under the

auspices of the kne-scan Orthodox Curch.

5. Joser' Charles's arbaradi, of the telegres which virtually praised.

Use concession to tse new fros? indicates tie: ile furtures may be

•e the mend. He cestainly cocid never have sent such a nessage vith

cot the approval of Presider: Duvalier, "es: be las peruitted to

send it Indiestes sat the Pres"leat may be bestming to 100% spon

his more favorably then he has done 10 the recent palt.

and yes, an in

---

## Page 104

Incelligence Information Report

CONTROLLED DiSSEM

COXPIDZETIAL

COUPATRY

SUNECI

Ea:t1

REPORT NO.

Possible Inrorezero In Fortres of

DATE DISTI

Cleard Josepi-Ja-les/ fossiole Peason

for President Jraller's Barsy Treate

NO. PAGES

ment of Charles/Zeligse of Iue-ilbert

Toucard

REFERENCES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

82 APR 1969

2

1o

During recest seess, the fontanes o. Cleand Josged-ura-les seen

#: have fores

Se has bees jiaying a sot in agonast sole 1s

the mard of tie initian fastino concession Collector's toe:

see rele ence, an setitily sales is desired to bring to isl1

sone tedig-sealed foreit exchange. Altaraga I do at sellere

ast sa sees Besident Bayolder es megiently as he used o fles

to his incareration, he does see to have recovered sose of abe

confidence vales the Desicent used to repose 1a hi.

2.

One reason for President Devalier's dislise of Caries (and ce

posettle roses gig tire brestdent eronmally tires his in 1111.

Is trat Cherles sas irsteal in bringing socat the sataaa

of the president's daughter, Yanie-jenise purelies, to Colosel

Max Dizie Crazles und "arie-senise bave ceen close riends

for may years. tarle-penise bese pregrant by lozaique and

veet to Cha-les for kelf.

merles ties Intervened sith Fresi-

dest Duvalle, so was anious, end persuaded lis to egree to

the marriege.

Te Presides: vas bisterly angry at Dosinigue and

somersat unny bleed earles for tse terriage.

the recessity for the wedding, but resented nis zer 50a-19-185

i, by assocition, so to speat, resented Cries.

The President

i Dolnigne bare orally reconelied. the President sot Cierel

annique do the airport, len the latter returned to Ealsa, and

made a point of invitiny his son-in-inv to ride in the pestiential

11ousine fora ee aimport to the palace, lie purpose vas to

demnstrate the burial o cid gridges.

It resias to be sees,

however, tester of 1o: the recodelliation vas fenuine and varther

on not the President has really fortivan his sod-in-lav.

XIO

USe

COTTIDBUTIAL

somers of the

HE DISTENNATED TO CONTACTORS

---

## Page 105

14-00000

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COSPIDENTIAL

NO DISSEM ABROAD

3°

Luc-Albert Foreard, Haltian linister Oi Touris=, as nOw in polatio

cal, 11 not personal, eclizee.

He no longer goes to his office.

The flew York City manager of the Faltian Tourist Jureau, Jean

Sorel, 1a 13 Jaiti and 15 acting in Foucard's stead.

Ranah

Ineodore, Desty Director of Tourian, 18 anlable ad 1s & friend

Of President Draller:

He 13, lovever, of little stature and

1s not capssie of doing anything more than the rossine daily

chores of the office. Foucard cannot afford to call attention

to hirself, becase he is earnil for the physical salesy of

his sister, ladaze Sairt-iictor.

President Duvalier recently

dismissed her as his perscuad secretary and replaced her with

his daughter, irtle of Colonal lax Dominique. Since then, runera

have abounded trat Madene Saint-Victor Lay be sarced for phys1-

cal Liquidation /Collector's Jote: see reference, • Whether

or not these -ore have any fcandation in fact, -ere 13 no

doubt that the senbers of the Poucard fantly (1 e, Iuc-Albert,

Kadase Sa1at-I1clor and tbeir sister, "adare Bella Foucard

Poltrien) bare all sade tenselves as Inconspicuous aa possible.

The Fresident's change In secretaries has led to a diminution

of the power and influence o. the Foucard clan.

D

ITIAL

---

## Page 106

1trarck69

SECRET

(then Filled In)

REGISTRATION REQUEST

28,910

DATE

70 г по.

352029

NADE

CHARLES, Clemard Joseph

BLIASES ASD/OR SPELLIDE VARTATICAS

DATE CF BIRTH

PRESENT RODRESS

PRESENT EMPLOYMEMT

AVEL

ADDITIONEL PERTINENT IDENTIFYSSE DATA

PLACE OF BIRTM

OCCUPATION

SD

11612

is terminated without prejudice by the Deparinent of the iray.

For additional information, you are referred to the drmy Source Registry.

DATE: 17 Mar 69

SECRET

Orben Filled In)

GROL? - 1

EXCLEDED FROM ALTONATIC

DORNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

FORM 1797

---

## Page 107

DEPT OF STATE AIRCRAN

A-I4

FROM AMEMBASS: PORT AU PROICE

DATE: 1 FE=RUARY 1959

CLASSIFICATIO:: SECRET

SUSJECT: ALLEGED PLOT OF CISVARD JOSEPH CHAFIES

---

## Page 108

UNCLASSIFIED.

MITERNAL

ONLY

CO CONFES TIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUUECT: (Opionel)

Letters fros Cleard Charles, Haiti, to US Officials and Businessmen

EXTENSION

DCS Case 47540

BAJE

2268

10 January 1969

TO: 10he

mber, amd

DATE

OffCER'S

INTALS

По грот.

•SECRET

HECEVED

18.1000

FORWARDED

DO/DCSL

2/NH/7/Haiti

3 B 0001, Hqs.

3.

Attached, for your inforcation,

is copy of PllI-457-68, with

attachment.

21468

3.

r. Retarn t

ATTN: VINCE

2- E-03

10

11.

12

To 8: Plo file

in charles 2o1.

83.

610 " NONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

•

INTERNAL

USE CALY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 109

UNITED STATES GOVERISIENT

Nemorandum

Director,

Ionestic Contact serrce

P5I-i5?-51

DATE: 2÷ DESERCEE ISCE

FROM

SEBJECT: Lesters Fro Clenard Charles, I21t1, to US Olficials and Businesseen

1.

Astached for your infortion are letters from Cleard jesegh Charies

addresses 1o Vice President Eubert E. Fumicrey and President-elest Richara

11x0n.

Tese letters were reseived in person Iron Charles, in Baits, by

Dorali 3. joie, source oi referauce, and brougat to the US by ice laster.

Tae letters cave not been delivereá as oi this date. Bove piars to esk

the Lew Jersey Thira Ilstrict Kazcer O2 tee IS House of Represesta-ives

to deliver tices.

2.

In addition to the correstondence reierred to ebove, ficke 2150 58-

ceived letters of introductios Iro Caerles to:

Horard 1. Burris (celieved to te a Lavyer)

Suite 101, RCA 31172106

1725 K. Street, I.i.

Wasbington, DiG.

20006

Mr. A. E. Incledos, Vice President

3. Go anite Ingleeering Corp.

80 Broad Street

Tew York, N. Yo 10004

ot 5. 40 a bello to be 20)

401 Broadway

New Yor's, N. Y. 10013

Mr. Fezzen Albert 11ller (en accountant)

230 We 41st Street

Kev Yors, l. Y. 10036

Mr. I. V. Rosello (an old friesd and very

reliable acquaiatence of Cherles)

Export Credit inster Femisabere Corpo

4T7 Madison Aveaue

New York, HI. Y. 10022

The cédressees are individuals Iron whoa Charles is seeking fizancial

assistasce•

Attasraents

Buy US. Sarings Bonds Regularly on sbe Payroll Savings Plars

04357020

---

## Page 110

14-00000

18.9.9-27-211807198866

•g.ab.+: 38-12-48958

Is Bresident

• PostciMaca, lo 8 icvcabIa 15Ee

STOOlICICO,

Four 2'1g-ascs Ies 1'1rtizjs creo Ic

qual j'a1 suÊvá lEs Éticia 23 la CaajaEO El0=to

rajo qui dovzit tcour= a1 Iisnzic ia votso fa

Fótitoun Jégzsracrin aux Clesticno anúsidentiol

I0s Ess1cai:0=

Ic Cac,

1ol Bouiafa; La Scut CScua T0120 STOpra salC-jien

Jo l0 ercytis inisis:1à20.

TOLE ETOS LIjI dO TOLIC EICUI, LALI

Toxa avos pozdie

GUG IUrieIIIIS IncI I0 IAI0 EI

saat su'11 y o qubigua cosa gu'os no pout écacre

pes dos cota cu das tojos - un0 calrturo qui ensE

I0 10 =0200.

• Bai co quj. a 815 décicá sarivoza.

In TaItan +15-+3 0% 13p6-102-- 40

2iCa50 Fous jas ÜtrO tracrdsaão,"

Cortesy pein =troiraro l'odiot do Tos as

pizacionng Youa touo dãs= 202=15 2 dss cornoo io

cunDies, Vous icra aica crazcró do l'espoir do

Cousculor 103 £211a 01 205 túisoso

Anaia calases esrúlioncos lous correses

quo doguis l0 dinzao la victoiro conciaunit ssti-

1aent ano 1a0u0, ci cua lalialo cucerces a2.

Sts c'oat dino quo jo zcada cot rúct yar dos 1013.

F'alasenano gio lo Iceau ost tir0, «ª

prrunda glaiaio à 20=22II deS VOOLI pOUI SuO 20 =0t5-

Sorno Intcc: l0 coug Lanifi.Lo dont Yous E53a

IOlt IS0ITU 16 S0II dE

TOD GrUBIRO diOCCON-

20.

s0 salug iouo sigãtos lo inisident itasci,

5ãe "icus Coscáraosos à survás l'isúrdiuo alaol bari

Bongo ¿ue lous vivros".

000 0?

--uawuladato.con'tagt

---

## Page 111

190E 71568 189

Le Fiésices t

373620 %.

!

Jo lous jaco, iscollenco, do socorcia

- 40.

CECE JESTOS CUJILS, P.I.3.

CJC/pa1

SCE 3I6:3C3

13KH51042 1 H:P-27

---

## Page 112

14-00000

Lo Frésilent

Po=t-cuisinca, le 8 Lovesaro 1563

Konsieur lo Fúsidunt Mug

J°as cabri, camio tous

Ica initicas d'allers, le3 élertica Frésider-

tolles idricuiros qui corcticiers toujcurt s

in ofico, la iordo via

11es a caraciatri 10s alffésentos M'ucos do lu

campagno éicetoralo qui dirrais abostir à vosro li

mincurt à 12 Présidcaco des Za*-üris d'irásiquo.

In Vena dO ISrOuVeCI

couffle et 1'1 alle conscierio do ta fcrso ot

do Son rayonzanont jaro 10 jorão.

vote touf-coz, ionsiena

20 Frúcident lu, d'un prostiza incontestá.

Jo cuis donc contin

gue, cous to:0 därinistration, les Itate-dris

d'inórique, rec la prussiga qua lui Conres: Een

fanzó jacoparculo ds los iranics reasourccs tuat

jamalner is"éconoulauss, sousent souplir sa voca-

Mon do ic-dorsiún du coria lisza et la placo co

preLúuI Jian Jord los autrce la 10rs du ilese gui

C'ost la soucal% que ¿°

forio : l'occasior. da Vo1=a Eai0ep-0 est électiore

ão fols mie do Iceevair.

Tensio:= 10 ¡súcident Ji, 038 TuCEI Slaciaco I0U=

Votro Jonhors posconnel et le prospérita du pougio

407.

Choses 20E illis Palga

---

