CC FREE Se ee eee

CONF: C/LA=B
ODPD]D.. -(15/P)._.

o PAGE 001
TOT: 0807502: APR. 78

SECRET
080750Z CIA 202417
TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,

ATTENTIONS INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
SECRET/WARNING. NOTICE: = SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SDURCES AND
INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM.

CIR@316/ O15S14<78

SUBJECT: OLOMCATs ESP=CUBA=PANAMAS RASCUBA=PANAMA

REFS: A,. FBI TELETYPE DATED 0520282 APRIL! 1978, CAPTIONED AS
ABOVE.

B. CIR#316/00260"75, DATED 18 FEBRUARY 1975, CAPTIONED
“SALVADOR ALDERESUIA, ALSO KNOWN AS "EL GALLEGO" INTERNAL’ SECRUITY=
CUBA. ee
1.° WITH REGARD TO CLARIFICATION OF SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA'S
ASSOCIATION WITH U.S, GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND PARTICULARLY WITH CIA,
REFERENCE: B ADVISED THAT HE WAS OF INTEREST TO THIS AGENCY IN 1960
WHEN WE WERE INDIRECTLY INVOLVED IN ASSISTING IN HIS EXFILTRATION
FROM CUBA.. HOWEVER, HE TOOK ASYLUM IN THE URUGUAYAN EMBASSY IN
HAVANA ON 3 JULY 1960 AND DEPARTED THE SAME: DAY FOR CURACAO. AFTER
HIS ARRIVAL IN MIAMI IN FEBRUARY 1961, THIS AGENCY WAS BRIEFLY IN
CONTACT WITH HIM BUT OUR INTEREST WAS DROPPED PARTLY BECAUSE HIS
UNCLE, ONE OF THE’ LEADING FOUNDERS OF THE CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY, WAS
THEN CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO_YUGOSLAVIA AND ALDEREGUIA'S TRUE LOYALTIES
WERE UNKNOWN, _THIS AGENCY HAS HAD NO. INTEREST IN OR CONTACT WITH
ALDEREGUIA SINCE THAT TIME...

2. VLADIMIR R OD RI GUE Z_ LAHERA DPOB 6 FEBRUARY 1937,
HAVANA, CUBA WAS .A.FORMER DGI STAFF OFFICER WHO. DEFECTED ON 21
APRIL: 1964 IN HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA, HE WAS DEBRIEFED AND HANDLED
THROUGH. NORMAL DEFECTOR CHANNELS -AND WAS. THE SOURCE OF NUMEROUS
CSCI'S CONCERNING THE OGI IN 1964 AND 65, HE WAS USED OPERATIONALLY:
IN RECRUITMENT ATTEMPTS AGAINST DGI OFFICERS
DURING 196461967, HE WAS TERMINATED IN
JULY 1967, AND WAS CONSIDERED, BUT NEVER USED, FOR ANOTHER
RECRUITMENT ATTEMPT IN 1971. SINCE 1971 RODRIGUEZ HAS NOT BEEN
INVOLVED IN ANY CIA OPERATION IN MIAMI OR ELSEWHERE.
JOSEPH NORRIS IS THE ALTAS OF A
CIA REPRESENTATIVE WHO PERIODICALLY DEBRIEFS RODRIGUEZ ON PERSONALITIE

end METHODS OF: THE: DGI. THERE IS NO OTHER cra INVOLVEMENT WITH
RODRIGUEZ. V6fO/ SIS - 7P
3. THIS AGENCY. WILL QUERY ITS REPRESENTATIVE IN -MIAMI.TO

aTTER IF: HE HAS ANY ADDITIONAL: INFORMATION RELEVANT TO -THIS.
MATTER —

Y. i
é SECRET.



14-00000

SECRET ;
NON=AGENCY

fer (9 Su7AH18.. pase oo2
_.TOTs 0807502. APR 78

CIA 202417..

78 0530497

Pas "1 D.. - :
4. CLASSIFIED ea EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION
SCHEDULE OF E.0._11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5 B(2).. IMPOSSIBLE TO
DETERMINE: DATE OF. AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICAT >
ORIG LA/CO/C1 X1325% COORD LA/CARI
LA/PHNC/P. ADCYLA/CO KEENAN AUTH CYLAD
WARRENs REC AC7PCS/LSN KUNH CL’ BY 012034,

SEND OF “MESSAGE

