# 104-10163-10011

## Page 1

104-10163-100111

11 September 1963

Datly Log

EASAS ROMANOR] 05

1.

Perause CAShS]dis not call bafors 1:30 hours, TEARY called fin

az his rim in accomance with arrargements made last night. CAShS said 05

that his chief would not release him for the several days. required for

the lexico trip,

in being asked 1f he objected to our discussing the

stration with his chief, GASAS sald that he had no objoctions, but be J"

id express enricemn about his job. He was sosured that his job was not

to be jeopardizod.

on firther query, CASAS gair that he would make the 05

trip is we could get the approval of his chief.

2. In the meantime, SAs/sacurity came up with information on CASASO 05

Fish, anl especially on his chief, HALLECK,

clearance permittine us to discuns our uttlization of CAStS ith HALoen

D$ 06

Houghton Rosa, Col. (Rot.)

FR 020612) 08

Nad worth 24th Street, Camp H111

1o Pa. 08

Tol: 1737-7875

Hil, Ser.:

West Point 1937, Engineering

Retared DO June 1952J 09

Legion of Merit

Bronze Star,

Oak Leaf Cluster

Occupation:

Daractor of General Engineering Division,

Cannett, Peming, Corddry and Carpentore Inc,] 29

600 No 2nd Sto, Harrisburg, Pa.

1018 238-0451

30

Berore batting up to harrisburg te ta to BALLOCk, we telephome

him at his office to inquire as to his avallability.

He was, howevar.

already well aware of our concern, having discused the matter with CASAS 05

at mon lapparently just, after we called CASa nd mentioned that n wouló 5

contact his chief). Although we pointed out clearly that CASAS was required 05

to provide vital asststance in an effort of considerable valuo to ire U.5.

Governnent, HALICEX replied that his firm also had a priority requiremort

I Importance Involving the Government of Costa Ricas in connection with

this job, Costa Rica had sent an engineer to deal with the firm; this unginser

rould bo in Hariburg until the end of the mentho

CASAS Tabsence would 05

result in inactivity on the part of this engineer.

and every day lost

would be contrary to the requirements of the contract between the firm 0b

and the Government of Costa Rica. WALLOCKladded that CASAS had Lold him

that he did not want to leave his pantonment,

Although Hallock wes grebanly

OYrofusing CAsAs serviess through solf - his fira'a - Interoat, I foul thet

05 CASAS delinItely ashod HA100K to put up as strong a relatanca so hi

EL, BATE 334019

05

06

P9y349049

/ 11 Sept 13

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

291BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2.

release as pneslb]e.)

will be carded appropriately

to AZUl whom they are obvioualy sagar to uno sor the pitch efforto)

12: 201 33 4089

(P2

4/5R

---

