# 104-10177-10023

## Page 1

104-10177-10023

LASSIER MESSAG

ROUTING

WITARI

2056

DATE.

38 AUGEST 1858

10.

YEDER'I ERRAO OF IMISTINITICH

PROM, DIRECTOR COMTRAL ISTELLTORACI AGENCY

come, Vort 51

no. 61, C1/ 0P3, 51, S/6?

LOEFEURIO

As 29

1946:59

OBIT

OPEHARONAS

Tota

TO

00190983

909:3

CITE CER

NOPORI /OQNYINUED COITIOL

THON:

• Fixara, SARAH 0287) 16-7

DATI OP IIO 26-28 AUOUST 1959

SUBJECT: 1 TOLICIAL PRANSAGTILNS OF DOSINICA BARTONE

*TUÁN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

LO' REPELSICS IS XUDE SO OUR OUS-POBL TO JOUR BUREAU, LATTE 27 AUGUSS 195%,

WHICH REPORTED THAT DONUTE BARTONE ALSO RETORTED AS BETO, MAD SETT A LANTER

TO PARAMA LITT A LARDS ANCONT OF CUSE TO OPTI A GARLATTO ACCOUTE DI TRI PARAMA

CITY BRAIGH OF THE NATIONAL CITY BATK AND TRAY THEJS JUDS MY DE CCTNTID WITH

MILITAN ALCANDER MOROAR, AMERICAN CITIZEY NO LAS BUEY BADADED IT REVOLITTONART

AGTIVITIRS IN CURA, RISINCE AIRO IS LUDE TO TOVE ANORAMUN DATSO 5 ATUST 1958,

YOUR FILS FUGIE 105-70973, CONCERTTHO MORIA DID BARTONE.

2O OU 88 AUGUST 1959 A FAINLI REZIABLE SOUNCE REPRISED TILT TEN PERONE MORON

BUTTONE SENT TO PARAMA SO OMEN SRI ACCOVIT WAS ONE NIRE PSALIALS, LAN PARTIER ON

CREDORI PASTLES, ALDRESS 2720 TIRSI RATIONAL DUI SULLUDIO, HIAT, TORIDA, PRALIAS

NAS CARTIONO A POTLE ON $70,000, OF MICÙ $15, 000 MIRE IS 1, 000 DOLLE IRiS. AB

PRINT TO OPET AN ACCQUIT IN THE HAS OF SERVICIOS DITIOLACIONS Sado, HITH PIS

OTET AUTHORIIÃO SIONITURE ON CRICKS TO BI THAT OF DOMINSE BARTONE. SUB SARA

REPRUESSPLATIVSS IN PAYAMA ARE ARIAS, PAERERA UD PADRIA. TIES PIKH IS KRADED

0018++

REFFOOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMITED

Cop 12

ZIBR

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

ALTREO

10

PIOM. DIRECTOR JO

CONER

ANO.

1DE91AEI0

I BOUTINA

PRIORITY

OPERAIIONA

LALLEDIAN

7:r 90933

INFO

CITE DIR

IL HAPSODIO ARIAS SALICE, HIFI SEVERAL PARTIERS, INCLUDINO ARTASO SON, OILERS,

NID CARLOS AROSHOA ABORRODL NAS RUDI PIACINO OONSIDIRABIE PRISSURE ON IN

BUITO MARITI ANONIE AGIVE BUT 1S DE 20 MI MEN FARE ME MET NOCENTEE

JO THE SOVACE OS TRIS DIPORTATI # IS SEISITIVE AND CARE SIOULD BE DUECISA

IE DIVEZOFISO LELDS ON THIS KATTEA,

(BAD OF MESS403)

21-7

ADOTE DITO RARIO OTTO PACTITES, IN 29282.

interno oeriere.-ii

B &C RET

ICEHLOCHLIACONE

REPROOUCTION AT OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

aMericarine oreisse

Copa!

---

