# 104-10234-10031

## Page 1

104-10234-10031

ORI€

UNIT A NE/S

ĐT $

6393

DATE :

7 MARCH 1966

MADRID

FROM:

DIRECTOR

WE S

• MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES!

21

OINDEE

YE SECRET

O NO MORE

DELEMCARLENa 201-25 2.234

O OR 9. O RETURN TO BRANCH OILERIO

71

- Tolerar

7010815137

CIlOPs, CilICZ, Fe, FilInTZ.

PRIORITY MADR

CITE DIR

85728

REF MADR 7382 (IN 69459)

1. FOLL IS PRENSA LATINA REPORT 5 MARCA CITED REF:

THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR ANNOUNCED THAT AS A RESULT

OF AN EXHAUSTIVE INVESTIGATION CARRIED OUT BY THE STATE SECURITY

• DEPARTHENT IN CONNECTION WITH THE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITY

OF FORMER MAUS ROLANDO CUBELAS (AND RASON GUIN DIAZ AND OTHER

INDIVIDUALS CONNECTED WITH THEM, FACTS HAVE BEEN UNCOVERED THAT

INVOLVE A SERIOUS ACT OF TREASON AGAINST THE CUBAN REVOLUTION IN

COLLUSION NITH THE ENEMY. THE ACT OF TREASON INCLUDED, AMONG

OTHER TREACHEROUS IDEAS, THE PLANNED ASSASSINATION OF THE PREMIER,

MAN. FIDEL CASTRO. THE COUNUNIQUE OF THE INTERIOR MINISTRY READS

AS FOLLONS:

THE FACTS, FORMS, AND DETAILS OF THE ACT OF TREASON

DEVELOPED IN THE FOLLONING WAY: IN DECEMBER 1964 FORMER MAJ.

.. t

ROLANDO CUBELA TRAVELED TO EUROPE UNDER THE PRETEXT THAT HE HAD

RECEIVED AN INVITATION TO ATTEND A STUDENT CEREXONY. ONCE IN EUROPE,

HE WENT TO PARIS ON 25 DSC 1964 AND THERE PERSONALLY CONTACTED

LUIS ENRIQUE TRASANCO, WHO LIVES THERE, AND ESTABLISHED CONMUNICA

TIONS WITH CARLOS. (TEPEDINO), THIS FORMER ONNER OF A (STORE EHAR1S6E

HAVANA. (TEPEDINO) NOW LIVES IN NEW YORK AND IS ENGAGED IN THE SAME

COORDI

ATING OFFICERS

ACTIVITEASTH RECA

REGRASING

SECRET

ANTHONTICATIO

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINE OFFICE IS PRONIBITIO MOA.66

201-352234

---

## Page 2

091G:

UNIT 3

DATE:

то :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

MESSAGE FORE

TOTAL COPIESS

SECRET

O NO INDEX

O PILE IN CS FILE NO

O DESTROY DO RETURN TO BRANCH DO FLE RED

+000000000429990093000330036

HOUTING

2:

3

6

7

8

PAGE 2

BATO: VI. FILE O RID COPY

TO

BAFO

CHED S5738

IT HAS BEEN PROVEN THAT BOTH LUIS ENRIQUE TRASANCO AND

(TEPEDINO) ARE WORKING FOR THE CIA AND THAT TRASANCO PUT CUBELA IN

CONTACT WITH OFFICIALS OF THE CIA IN PARIS. CARLOS (TEPEDINO)

THEN WENT FROM NEW YORK TO PARIS TO ARRANGE A MEETING BETWEEN ROLANDO

• CUBELA AND MANUEL ARTINE, THE WELL KNON MERCENARY LEADER. THE

MEETING WAS TO BE HELD IN MADRID. SEVERAL FRIENDS OF CUBELA WHO

WERE ALREADY IN TOUCH VITH THE ENDIY WERE IN SPAIN AT THIS TIME.

ONE OF THEM, JOSE LUIS CONZALEZ GALLARRETTA, AS AN EPLOYEE OF THE

CUBAN EMBASSY IN SPAIN AND HAD GONE TO SPAIN WITH THE MISSION OF

HELPING ODON ALVAREZ DE LA CAXPA, NO, BECAUSE OF HIS PHYSICAL

CONDITION, NEEDED SOME PERSONAL HELP. ALVAREZ DE LA CAMPA HAD

ASKED THE REVOLUTIONARY COVERNMENT FOR PERKISSION TO RECEIVE IN

• SPAIN SPECIALIZED TREATIENT AS A RESULT OF EYE TROUBLE. GALLARRETTA

WAS ENTRUSTED WITH THE TASK OF HELPING ALVAREZ DE LA CAMPA AT THE

LATTER'S REQUEST BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN HIS HELPER IN CUBA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS.

DESPITE THE SPECIAL CONSIDERATION AND THE HUMANE NATURE

OF THE AID WHICH, FOR THE AFOREIRNTIONED REASONS, THE REVOLUTIONARY

GOVERNKENT GAVE ODON ALVAREZ DE LA CAMPA, SCARCELY HAD A MONTH OF

HIS STAY IN SPAIN PASSED WHEN BOTH HE AND GALLARRETTA ESTABLISHED

COORDIRATING OFFICERS

RELEASIN OFFICER

SECRET

AUTHI

0F8

REPRODUCTION BY OTNER THAN THE ISSUUG OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL CODIESI

SECRET

O DEAMROY I RETURN TO BRANCH O FILE ISO

X0OQKO0Q0UO4XXXXXXX000EOLXX200

ROUTING

UNIT &

EXT &

DATE:

то в

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONs

Г

ONO INDEX

DI FILE IN CS FILMO

2

TO

PAGE 3

BAO: VR. FILE DU RID COPY

CONTACT VITE CIA AGENTS HERNAN HER IQUE AND AUGUSTIN 5720-8

MACHADO IN MADRID. THESE THO ARRANGED FOR AN INTERVIEN BY ODON

'ALVAREZ DE LA CAIPA AND GALLARRETTA FITH AN IMPORTANT YANKEE CIA

OFFICIAL, JAMES NOEL-JILY WHO RESIDED AT LOS PINZONES STREET

IN MADRID AND APPEARED AS AN OFFICIAL OF THE U.S. EMBASSY IN SPAIN.

ODON ALVAREZ DE LA CAMPA ASKED FOR 100, 000 DOLLARS, OF WHICH HE

WOULD DELIVER ONE FOURTE TO GALLARRETTA, AS THE PRICE FOR THEIR

COLLABORATION.

..÷ BEFORE ODON ALVAREZ DE LA CAMPA RECEIVED A DEFINITE ANSWER

FROM THE (CIA) MORE THAN A YEAR PASSED, IN THE COURSE OF WHICH

GONZALEZ GALLARRETTA HAD ALSO ESTABLISHED CLOSE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY

RELATIONS WITH ANOTHER FRIEND OF CUBELA, JORGE ROBRENO, KNOWN

AS THE "KIZARD" ROBRENO, A CUBAN RESIDENT OF MADRID.

ALVAREZ DE LA CAMPA, WITHOUT TELLING GALLARRETTA OF THE

FINAL RESULT OF THE NEGOTIATIONS THEY HAD BOTH UNDERTAKEN AND WITE-

• OUT GIVING HIM A PENNY OF THE SUM WHICH WAS DEFINITELY DELIVERED

TO HIM, OFFICIALLY ANNOUNCED HIS DESERTION. THUS GALLARRETTA,

SEPARATED ODON ALVAREZ, REMAINED TIED TO THE ACTIVITIES OF TEE

"WIZARD" ROBRENO.

AT THIS SAME TIME THERE WAS LIVING IN SPAIN THE CUBAN,

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

MECHANING OFFICER

SECRET

---

## Page 4

....

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIESE

SECRET

ORIG &

UNIT 8.

ĐT :

DATE :

D INDEX

• NO SHOES

DO PILE IN CS PILE NO.

1

ROUTING

5

6

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF 8

PAGE4

8MFO: VA

• FILE C RID COPY

TO

CITE DIR 85738

ALBERTO BLANCO (RAMIREZ), KNOWN AS ALBERTO "EL LOCO." IN THE PAST

• WE HAD CLOSE RELATIONS WITH CARLOS AND ANTONIO PRIO SOCARRAS AND

OTHER LIKE ELEMENTS WHO LATER PARTICIPATED IN THE FIGHT AGAINST

BATISTA. THIS ALBERTO "EL, LOO0" MORE THAN (THO) YEARS BEFORE

HAD EXPRESSED HIS DESIRE TO GO TO THE UNITED STATES VIA SPAIN,

BUT ALLEGED THAT IT WAS NOT BIS INTENTION TO ENGAGE IN COUNTER-

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES. HE SAID THAT TO PROVE HE WAS READY TO

COOPERATE IN (OBTAINING) ANY INFORMATION WHICH MIGHT BE CONSIDERED

OF INTEREST TO THE SECURITY DE THE COUNTRY. FAR FROM DOING WHAT

HE HAD SAID HE WOULD, ALBERTO "EL LOCO" IMAEDIATELY CONNECTED

HIMSELT IN SPAIN WITH THE "WIZARD" ROBRENO, WITH WHOM HE HAD OLD

AND CLOSE TIES OF FRIENDSHIP. HE ALSO WAS FRIENDLY WITH ROLANDO

CUBELA, HAVING PLAYED AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN THE TRANSACTIONS AND

- NEGOTIATIONS WHICH CULMINATED IN THE CUBELA-ARTINE PACT.

ROBRENO, • GALLARRETTA, AND BLANCO-EACH OF WHOM WAS BEING

PAID 250 DOLLARS MONTHLY BY THE CIA AND WHO LED DISSOLUTE LIVES IN

MADRID LEARNED ABOUT CARLOS (TEPEDINO'S) CONTACT WITH CUBELA AND

ABOUT THE LATTER'S READINESS TO OFFER THE CIA & A VERY IMPORTANT

SERVICE AS PART OF THE PLAN TO DESTROY THE REVOLUTION. THE SERVICE

THAT ROLANDO CUBELA OFFERED TO GIVE-BY TAKING ADVANTAGE OF HIS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

ABAME AFFICER

SECR

AUTMENTICA

• E T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICEIS

BITED.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

ORIG : •

SHIT:

ĐIT :

DATE :

TO 8

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF !

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

O INDEX

O NOINDEX

DO FILE IN CS PILE NO.

Or I RETURN TO BRUNCH O FAR MO

200XXX000XXXXX/00000022333300

ROUTING

16

8

PAGE 5

LAFO: VR. FILE I RID COPY

INFO

CITE DIR 85738

ANTECEDENTS AND THE CONFIUENCE, RELATIONS, AND CONSIDERATIONS HE

ENJOYED AMONG MANY PERSONS CONNECTED WITH THE REVOLUTION -WAS TO

PREPARE THE ASSASSINATION OF COMRADE FIDEL CASTRO.

WHILE HE WAS IN EUROPE, CUBELA MADE THREE TRIPS TO SPAIN,

ON 26 DEC 64, ON 6 FEB 65, AND ON 20 FEB & 65. AT THE BEGINNING.

OF PEE, MANUEL ARTIME WENT TO MADRID WITH THE AIM OF MEETING WITH

ROLANDO CUBELA. CARLOS (TEPEDINO) AND "#IZARD" ROBRENO TELEPHONED

ROLANDO CUBELA IN PARIS FROM MADRID TO INFORM HIM OF ARTINE'S

ARRIVAL. IN ORDER TO ASSURE A SAFE AND DISCREET PLACE FOR THE

NEETING, CUCO LEON, ONE OF ARTIME'S HELPERS, RENTED AN APARTUENT

IN THE TORRE BUILDING OF MADRID FOR A WEEK AND GAVE THE

APARTMENT XEYS TO ALBERTO "EL LOCO," ROLANDO CUBELA WAS TO LODGE

IN THE PLAZE HOTEL, LOCATED ACROSS THE STREET FROM THE APARTIENT

BUILDING. MANUEL, ARTIME, HELPED BY CUCO LEON AND ONE SANZ, KNOWN

''AS "EE GALLEGO", HAS LODGID IN THE EXPERADOR HOTEL OF MADRID.

ON 9 FEB AT 1630 HOURS, WHEN ROLANDO CUBELA WAS ALREADY

IN MADRID, HAVING ARRIVED 6 FEB, ALBERTO "HI. LOCO" WENT TO THE LA

TORRE BUILDING. THEY ARRIVED AT AROUND 1700 HOURS. ON THE GROUND

FLOOR OF THE BUILDING "WIZARD" ROBRENO AND "THE SPANIARD" SANZ

VERE WAITING, ROLANDO CUBEL GANPA CARTEL STEPEDINO) WERE ALREADY IN

AUTHENTICATIN

RELEASINS OFFICER

SECRET

Busteded

OFFICE#

REPRODUCTION AT OTNER

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

copy on

---

## Page 6

14-00000

..:*

..:.

01168.

UNST 3

DIT :

DATE:

TO B

FROM: DIRECTOR

MESSAGE PORN

TOTAL COPIESE

SECRET

O NO INDEX

DELE IN CS FLENO

LI DESTICE OWNICILIA DELE

x090000000 xxxxxxxxxposa.000

HOUTING

1

2

3

PAGE 6

LAFO: VA, FILE D RID COPY

TO

85725

THE APARTHENT. AT APPROXIMATELY 1715 HOURS ALL LEFT THE APARTMENT

EXCEPT ROLANDO CUBELA AND MANUEL, ARTIME, WHO TALKED TOGETHER FOR

APPROXIMATELY THREE HOURS. DURING TRIS MEETING BETWEEN CUBELA

AND ARTIME, THEY DISCUSSED CONCRETE DETAILS OF THE PLOT TO ASSASSINATE

THE PREMIER AND TEB STEPS TO BE TAKEN THEREAFTER. THE TWO DISCUSSED

TRE ROLE WEICH THEY WOULD LATER PLAY IN CUBA.

• ROLANDO CUBELA SPOKE OF THE IMPORTANT OF THE PHYSICAL

ELIMINATION OF FIDEL AND SAID THAI THEREFORE, HIS, CUBELA SHOULD

BE CONSIDERED THE PRINCIPAL LEADER OF THE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY FORCES.

MANUEL, ARTIME OFFERED THE TECHNICAL, MEANS AND POINTED TO

THE ENORMOUS SUPPORT HE HAD FROM THE U.S. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY AND THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND HIS RELATIONS WITE VARIOUS

- • CENTRAL AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS AND THE OAS IN GENERAL. ES PROMISED

THAT 48 HOURS AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF COMRADE FIDEL WAS PERPETRATED,

HE WOULD LAND IN CUBA SUPPORTED BY THE UNITED STATES AND THE OAS.

TO CARRY OUT THE CRIME AND PRESERVE HIS LIFE CUBELA WOULD

RECEIVE FROM MANUEL, ARTIME A HIGH-POWERED 4X10-- TELESCOPIC SIGHT

AND A SILENCER, BOTH ADAPTABLE TO A FAL 7.62 RIFLE WHICH ROLANDO

CUBELA OWNED. IT COULD BE FIRED FROM A DISTANCE OF 800 JAKK YARDS,

AT THE PLACE AND TIME CONSIDERED MOST APPROPRIATE:

ATIME OFPICEAS

SECRET

AUTHRUTICATINN

OFFICER

HEPRODUCTION

OTMER THAN THE ISSUING

BITED.

---

## Page 7

ORIG :

LAIT 8.

DIT &

DATE 3

TO 8

FROM: DIRECTOR

cong

TO

MESSAGE FORK

TOTAL COPIES!

SECRET

O INDEX

• NO INDEE

• FILE IN ES FILENO

I DESTROY O RETURN TO BRANON DIVUE BO

2

3

ROUTING

PAGE 7

MOS VI, FILE C RID COPY

#.

- Đ0

INFO

CITE dUR

85778°

THE FOLLOWING WOULD PARTICIPATE DIRECTLY IN THE ASSASSINA-

TION OF CASTRO: ROLANDO CUBELA; "THE WIZARD" ROBRENO, WHO WOULD BE

INFILTRATED INTO CUBA BY WAY OF MIAMI AND HELPED BY ARTIME; AND

ALBERTO "EL LOCO, " WHO WOULD BE TAKEN BY ARTIME TO A CAMP IN THE

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, UNDERCO RIGID TRAINING THERE, AND THEN INTILTRATE

INTO CUBA. GALLARRETTA WOULD SERVE AS LIAISON WITH ARTIVE. THB

VISIT ENDED WITH THE UNDERSTANDING THAT BOTH CUBELA AND ARTIME

WOULD SHARE THE COLLAND OF THE COUNTERREVOLUTION AND THAT NO OTHER

LEADER WOULD PARTICIPATE IN IT.

•. IN ADDITION TO (TEPEDINO), "WIZARD" ROBRENO, AX ALBERTO

"EL LOCO, " CUCO LEON, AND SANZ "THE SPANIARD, " WHO HAD A DIRECT

HAND IN ARRANGING THE MEETING, THE CUBELA-ARTINE MEETING WAS ALSO

KNOWN TO CONZALEZ GALLARRETTA, ARTIKE'S CLOSE FRIEND JORGE QUINTERO,

÷ AND BICHE BERNAE, ALSO A KNOWN AGENT OF THE CIA.

CUBELA RETURNED TO PARIS, WHILE ARTILE SENT SANZ TO THE

UNITED STATES TO LOOK FOR A TELESOCPIC SIGHT AND A SILENCER. BOTE

INSTRUMENTS, WHICH ARRIVED IN SPAIN A WEEK LATER, WER PERSONALLY

GIVEN TO EXKBARREXZX PORTION MISSION/ GALLARRETTA ALSO RECEIVED

FROM CUCO LEON A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF HIGHLY-EXPLOSIVE DYNAMITE SENT

FROM THE UNITED STATES TO SABOTAGE THE SHIPS THAT WERE BEING BUILT

COORDINATING OFFICERS

MELEASING OFFICEN

SECRET

AUTHENTICATIN®

DUCTION

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

cope na

---

## Page 8

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

ORIO 8 .

WHIT 8

DIT 1

DATE :

TO 8

FROM: DIRECTOR

COME:

D INDEX

D) NO INDEX

D DESTIOT O RETUEN TO BRANCH I FILE IND

1

2

3

- ROUTINE

7

PAGE 8

UFO: VA, FILE DO RID COPY

TO

CITE DIR 85738

• FOR CUBA IN THE SPANISH SHIPYARDS, AMONG THEN THE SHIP, EL JIGUE.

GALLARRETTA TURNED THE DYNAMITE OVER TO "WIZARD" ROBRENO AND GAVE

CUBELA, ON HIS LAST TRIP TO SPAIN, THE SILENCER AND THE TELESCOPIC

SIGHT. TAKING ADVANTAGE OF HIS DIPLOMATIC PASSPORT AND THE RELA-

TIONS AND CONFIDINCE HE ENJOYED, CUBELA BROUGHT THE THO INSTRUMENTS

TO CUBA, WHEN HE RETURNED THERE ON 28 FEB 1964.

ON HIS WAY THROUGH SPAIN ON RIS RETURN TRIP TO CUBA, CUBELA

REQUESTED FROM BICHE BERNAL 10,000 PESOS FOR THE WORK HE WAS TO DO

IN CUBA IN CONNECTION WITH THE PLOT. BICHE BERNAL GAVE HIM, INSTEAD

OF CUBAN CURRENCY, 1,000 DOLLARS, WITH WHICH; BY ILLEGAL EXCHANGE

ON THE BLACK MARKET, CUBELA COULD BE OBTAIN THE SUM OF MONEY REQUIRED.

UNTORESEEN EVENTS OCCURRED FOR THE PLOTTERS. WHEN THE

REBELLION BROKE OUT IN SANTO DOMINGO, ALBERTO "EL LOCO" COULD NOT

GO THERE AND, CONSEQUENTLY, HE REQUESTED AND OBTAINED PERMISSION TO

RETURN TO CUBA.

THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF SECURITY KEPT THE PREMIER INFORMED

OF ROLANDO CUBSLA'S HIGHLY SUSPICIOUS MOVES, OF HIS MYSTERIOUS

TRIPS TO SPAIN, AND ITS PREOCCUPATION OVER A SERIES OF SIGNS THAT

HE MAY HAVE BEEN PREPARING SOME CRIMINAL PLAN AGAINST MAJOR CASTRO'S

LIFE, HOWEVER, THE DEPARTIENT HAD NOT BEEN ABLE IO GATHER ALL THE

COORDINATiNG OFFICENS

• SECRET

Shandon

AFPIC#

REPRODUCTION BY OTHEA THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

I PROMISITED.

Copy HE

---

## Page 9

ORIG :

EXT :

DATE :

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

MESSAGE FORX

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

O NO BADER

O FILE IN ES PILE NO

09200XXxxX0XX2x0000003x..000

ROUTING

1

2

6

8

PAGE 9

MO: VIR . FILE I RID COPY

CHE DIR 857J8

• EVIDENCE, THE FACTS OF THE CASE, AND THE NECESSARY PROOF.

AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS YEAR, WHEN THE EXTENT AND

SERIOUSNESS OF THE STEPS TAKEN BY CUBELA WERE STILL UNKNOWN

ALTHOUGH THERE WERE STRONG INDICATIONS THAT A CRIMINAL AND TREACHER-

OUS PLAN WAS BEING PREPARED E AGAINST HIS PERSON--COMRADE FIDEL •

CASTRO SUMONED CUBELA. HE SPOKE TO HIM FOR SEVERAL HOURS, AND

URGED HIM NOT TO BE CONVERTED INTO AN INSTRULENT OF THE ENEMIES OF

THS REVOLUTION AND THE COUNTRY. FIDEL ALSO TOLD CUBELA THAT BECAUSE

OF CUBELA'S UNSTABLE CHARACTER, HIS FONDNESS FOR AN EASY LIFE, AND

HIS LACK OF CONCERN FOR THE PROBLEMS AND THE STRUGGLES OF THE

PEOPLE, CUBELA ALONE WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR RIS INCREASING ISOLATION

OUTSIDE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY PROCESS. BUT, FIDEL TOLD HIM, IF FE

REALLY WOULD CORRECT THIS AND WAS READY TO DEVOTE HIMSELE

SERIOUSLY TO ANY ACTIVITY IN THR MANY FIELDS IN WHICH THE REVOLU-

TION PURSUES ITS WORK, WE MOULD ALL BE READY TO HELP HIM.

WHEN THIS CONVERSATION TOOK PLACE, IT WAS NOT KNOWN THAT

MONTHS AGO CUBELA HAD MADE A PACT WITH MANUEL, ARTINE, & NO LESS,

IN A MADRID APARTMENT TO ASSASSINATE THE MAN WHO WAS TALKING TO HIM

• IN THIS WAY. IT WAS OBVIOUS THAT HE WAS ALREADY TOO COMMITTED TO

THE ENEMY TO TRY TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE OPPORTUNITY OFFERED HIM.

COORQINAPINE OFFICERS

DELRADING OFFICER

AUTONATICATION

SECRST

ODUCTION BY

OTHER

TMAN THE ISSUINE OFFICE IS PROHIBIT+ 201-252234

---

## Page 10

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIESI

SECRET

UNiT 8

DIT 8

DATE:

то 8

FROM: DIRECTOR

COMF &

D INDEN

O NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

I DESTROY I RITURN TO BRANCH O TILE BO

X0000000000000000000

ROUTING

2

6

PAGE 10

BATO: 17. FILE L RID COPY

CITE DIR

85775

• IN THE INTERVIEW, CONDUCTING HIMSELF IN AN ABSOLUTELY HYPOCRITICAL...

MANNER, HE DENIED THAT HE HAD ANY REASON FOR DISSATISFACTION WITH

THE REVOLUTION OR ANY PROBLEM OF ANY KIND IN CONNECTION WITH IT. tY:

THEREUPON, THE STATE SECURITY DEPARTENT ARRIVED AT THE CONCLUSION

THAT IT WAS NECESSARY TO INTENSIFY THE INVESTIGATION, THE COLLECTION

OF DATA AND PROOF, AND ALSO TO TAKE PERTINENT MEASURES TO PREVENT

THE PLOTTERS FROM ATTEMPTING ANY ACT HARMFUL TO THE REVOLUTION,

WHILE

IT WAS ARRIVING AT DEFINITE CONCLUSIONS.

ONCE THIS WAS ACCOMPLISHED, ROLANDO CUBELA SECADES, ALBERTO

BLANCO (RAMORIZ), RAMON GUIN DIAZ, JOSE LUIS CONZALES GALLARRETTA,

JUAN ALSINA NAVARRO, ANGEL. FERRERO VELIZ, AND GUILLERIO CUNIL

ALVAREZ WERE ARRESTED ON 26 AND 28 FEBRUARY.

THE TELESCOPIC SIGHT 4X40 TASCO BRAND, AQQUIRED IN THE

UNITED STATES -WHICH WAS GIVEN TO CUBELA BY ARTIME AND THICH HE

BROUGHT INTO THE COUNTRY WAS FOUND IN CUBELA'S RESIDENCE. THE

FOLLOWING WERE ALSO FOUND IN CUBELA'S RESIDENCE: A FAL RIFLE, A

•30 CALIBER MACHINE GUN RIFLE, 2 GARANDS, 3#-1 CARBINES, 2 8-3

SUBMACHINEGUNS, A .16-CALIBER DOUBLE BARREL RIFLE, A .12-CALIBER

SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE WITH HIGH VELOCITY CARTRIDGES AND BUCKSHOT,

4 SIDE ARMS, 2 U.S. MADE FRAGUENTATION HAND GRENADES, 5 INCENDIARY

COORDINATINE DEFICERS

AUTNENTICATINO

PLEASINO ANTICEA

L SECRET

MEPRODUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED.

Comr Me.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

ORIG :

DIT :

DATE :

TO &

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON&

• MÉSSAGE FORK

TOPAL COPIES: "

SECRET

ROUTING

1s1

O INDEX

D 40 INDeX

O PILE IN ES FILE NO.

-

PAGE 11

INTOS VA, FILE DO RID COPY

18F0

CITE DIA 85738

• GRENADES, 526 DOLLARS, 3, 000 CUBAN PESOS, AND LARGE QUANTITIES OF

ANMUNITION AND OTHER OBJECTS AND ARTICLES--POSSESSION OF WHICH

CONSTITUTES A CRIME.

THE ACCUSED PERSONS WILL BE BROUGHT BEFORE THE REVOLUTIOYARY

COURTS AT ONCE AND DETAILS GIVEN IN THIS REPORT WILL BE COXPLETELY

PROVEN DURING THE TRIAL.

THUS ENDS THE INTERIOR MINISTRY NOTE.

2. AP PRESS RELEASE 6 MARCH SAYS "THE EENERNE CUBAN GOVERNXENT

ISSUED A NEW STATERENT TODAY TO CLARIFY A CONMUNIQUE ACCUSING I7O

CUBAN ARMY MAJORS OF PLOTTING TO ASSASSINATE PRIME MINISTER FIDEL

CASTRO.

B. 1, . 5

THS NEW STATEMENT SAID ONLY ONE OF THE TWO-- HAJ. ROLANDO .

CUBELA SECADES, -WIDELY KNOWN MEDICAL DOCTOR--WAS ACTUALLY CHARGED

WITH PLOTTING THE ASSASSINATION. THE OTHER, MAJ. RANON GUIN DIAZ,

DID NOT PARTICIPATE

IN ANY PLOTTING BUT KNEW OF IT, THE STATEMENT

SAID.' BE IS CHARGED WITH CONCEALING THE PLOT AND OF CARRYING OUT

ESPIONAGE FOR THE U.S. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA). THE

LATTER IS GUIN'S. 'ESSENTIAL, CRIME," THE STATEMENT IN THE CONUNIST

NEWSPAPER GRANHA SAID

WELRASING OFFICER

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

PRODUCTI

ASTHENTICATIN®

OFFICER

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITEO.

201-252234

---

