# 104-10194-10024

## Page 1

104-10194-10024

MATERIAL REVILED AT CIA I USUAKTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COITTEE ON ASS-LSSINATIONS STAFF MEDITERS

RECRST

FILL TITLE/UMBERVOLINE: HUMI, E. HOWARD (CONTRACT

CRABANAC, TerenceS.

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM: 5513

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

2/28/18

3/15/18

DATE

RETURNED

3/04/18

315/74

REVIENED BY

(PRINT NUE) -

DAN HArdWAY

SIGNATURE OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

intens.

Dam Standuay

TS MAY EE COPIED OR REJOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

CENA

---

## Page 2

contavét Suru. u - Ilzenie S Criabinac (P)

inijemi

= Geuaiet

18,5:56 6515/7

26, 585 65-15/7

21,192 GS-1s7

21,192 GS-15/7

100dCS. LT1

3:Ju3, 66. LTI

17 Sefl 66 Contreit Tirminciled

coorvented to Stoft Emplonge Staluer

---

## Page 3

Janu :0/0

MEMORANDUM FOR: Olice of Finance

THROUGH

SUBJECT

: Chief, Contrict Personiel Diviaton

: anitanient of E. How 8d Hunt is Indecordent

Contr ctor Under Men orindum of Or l Contrict

1. Effective 2 November 1979, subject was retined under

oril contrict to write. cittion concerning n

employee of Cli for 1 fee

ol $250.09. The completed cie dion mis delivered to ind icce tel by

CIA on 23 Noverber 1970.

2. Subject Is a former ClA S0.:l! Erioloyee who rotired effective

30 April 1970.

3. Subject is to be pid his fee of $250. 09 under Fin Account

Number 1176-0041.

dear. Munt's request, payment in to be i do in the

form of two oterile chocky, one in the mount or 5200.99 a:y bie to the

Public Service Aid Soclety, ind the secand in the amount of 5id, du pay ble

to the Edue tonal Aid Funi. Ple:se forward both checka to tir. Bon

DeFelice, 5F-67 Moidouarter,,

4. No other commitreoti live been mide do aubject.

Approving Officer

Office of Personnel

APPROVED:

1s/÷::

Chief, Contrice Personnei D.vition

sand 1310

Dite

Ther

SEGRET

!?,*

---

## Page 4

1 Juso 1967

MEMCRANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUMJECT:

seras os lastructiona of the Deputy Direcior for Plus.

and with approvala from to DCJ and ihe DDCI, was converted

so curerse: employment and annigaed lo_

Jior a special

undertaking is behalf of the DD/P. He left for

Jin July

1965 and resurned so the U.S. In June 1966 having completed

his analgamest successfully.

Il as evaluative commeat la soeded

so cover bia work durtay lala pariad al lime ho should be rated

Потав Н. Karamessies

Assistant Deputy Director for Plars

Or!g & ! - Director of Pastonel

Vie C/EUR

1 - ADDIP

---

## Page 5

14.00000

SECRET

3 October 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chlel, TRB

SUBJECT

: Verification of Contract Service for

1. The following is a record of subject's contract service with

the Agency:

Date

Action

Compensation

4 July 1963

Contract Employee

$1% 880 per annuin

10 October 1965

Salary Increase

$20, 595 per annuin

3 July 1966

Salary Increase

$21,192 per annum

17 September 1966

Contract Terminated

Sal, 192 per annum

2. All of abora sorvice la creditable lor both leave and Civil

Service Retirement purposes.

Dow H. luetscher.

Chief, Contract Personnel Diviion

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

2 - CPD

---

## Page 6

SECRET

26 SEP ES

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Pereonnal Diviaion

ATISTFION

SUBJECT

: Verification of Contract Scruice

In order to establish the salary, LCD and to compute

the SaD for both leave and retirement purposes, it la

necessary to verify the contract service and salary of

#, DOE 2 October 1918,

who clains erploy-

ment with this Agency In a contract status from di July 1965

to 17 Septenber 1960.

Deputy Cales, Transactions & Ricords Branch

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

This le to adulse that affoctive 17 September 1966 I will

realgn from employment wich che United States Government as

provided In the contractual agreement effecelva 4 July 1965.

It de understood that my statue as a Scaff Employee sill be

effective 1ß September 1966, tho

day following my resignation

ag a Contract Employee.

APPROVED:

Europeaa Contract Approving dificor

Date

APPROYED:

/B/ Dow H. Luetscher

Special Contracting Olticer

REMEWED:

- 57970

Resister ase 8a9258/-8

Be: 35:18 10t

68960180231129

---

## Page 8

SECRET

14 July 1966

NENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

The ADDP requested the writer to personally bring

file to him for reviow this date. I was informed

by Mr. Karamessines that Subject has now returned to

headquarters for

reassignment and will not be returning to

as his duties have been fulfilled there.

When the DDP decides

inform us of such and

action desired.

next assignnent, ADDP will

travel

accounting was given to C/E/B&F for preparation and processing

of the voucher for subject's return travel.

Charles

J. Francis

AC/E/SS

CFrancis/cls: 14 Jul

66

SEGRET

---

## Page 9

ONG, 153

HEUORANDUN FOR:

Deputy Director for Support

BUBJECT:

Roquest for Escortion to Provelon of

FR 45200 -

graph

This nonorandun containe a rocomendation in para

for the approval of the Deputy Director for Support.

aigned

to tael

Brea

(F) 1a a Contreot Employee as

in a sensitive assignsent

since his conversion Iron

a Staff Eployon on A July 1965.

vas a GuIS, stop Y (319,880.00 por annun) and 20

Is being pald at the sane

rate da

is prosent contract

otatus. Bla contract providen that he will be ontitled to

a living quarto»s allorance in confomance with regulations

of this organtuation applicablo to its appointod personnel.

3.

Tho baste living quartera allowance for ClaRs II

0f81cors

1s $3,000 por aaRus.

Thich

Idas located.

#ith & one yorr

Jense from 15 Novembar

1965 to 14 Hoveaber 1966, bos an anaual roat of 86 600.00

orcludias utilitios.

Therefore, for rent alone, he oill ba

$1,960.00 por year

over the 160

percant naxinun allowed

ander the provisions of IT 45 10b.

On & 75/25 percent

sharing basis of the 00 percoat over the quartors allovence,

he would be out of pocket $8, 395.00.

Due to tho operational sensitivity of

manent, his roquest formllef on his housing

coats vas

handled by NI. Thomas Kerancssised, A2dP.

On 16 Septenber

1De5, aT. caramossines, ALDE, approvod hia being relaburses

on a 78/25 percont basis for the excess allowable coate ur

to, but pot to exceed, Bo percent abora dis quartore allovanco.

Thin authorization

from

Mr. Karmaainee:

It lo roquested that the Deputy Director

---

## Page 10

14-00000

for Support authoriso

allovable conta up to

tho 16/39 porcent abaring of tho encosa

do percent above his quarters allowanco.

/.51

Bdward Byan®

: Aeting Chlof

Vester Dirope Divialon

Becomendation la paragrapa 4

Le authorised:

He Deputy Broctor for Bupport

9 NOY 1965

Dato

DDP/VE/88

Distribution:

Or1g.

- C/WE

2 - SSA-DD/S

-. CJWK/83

WE/LO

WE/PT

1 - WK/BP

VaJ/6189 (8Nov65)

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

Chio8, Mostora Tampo Dirision

ATT

support Staff

Compensation and Paz Mivision

oftico. of Finance

Paty Status Reporte 1

Humber 179080

Raforenca & PAB 20-10601, parsgraph 5.

18 Cotober 1963

Paployse

To date thore le no record of roooipt of Porma 764,

Pety Status Reporta, Por

sines his ROD

4 July 1969. Trono

roporta are roquirod in ordor to naintain

nis loavo aocount lo secordoneo vità the torsa of paragreph :

6(0) o8 blo contraot and lo prooludo actlon to althbold pay in

secordance vith roquiramanta of the referoneod bandboos.

2. It do roquestod that this offles be adulood an to

the roason for the dolay in the subalaalon of these Duty Status

Roporte.

Cales,

Contraat Raployoon docounto Sootion

Agent Pagroll Prench

TO:

ATTEITION:

FROM:

Chies of Support, VE Diviales

Per conversation with Ir, Thocas keramessines, ADDP,

thero o1ll bo no inte Status Reports (Fora 764) subaltted

Thia should bo unod as the authority

so continue his pay without tioso reporto.

Davia B. Porell

Calof of Support

us Divieloa

60 139

SECRET

2a298

Sa51E47R€4'

---

## Page 12

14-00000

October 18, 1965

Dear Howard, -

Your insurance representative has passed along some

Information concerning

reimbursement to you by means of

deposits to your bank account.

So that you will understand

the reason and the source of deposits which

show up on your

bank atatement, here is the run-down for the present:

Amount of

Approx Date

Derrett

_Of DeposLE

Reason for Payment

$ 5.00

Sep 9

Settlement of claim for

son Howard (settlement

sheet encloged)

$216.06

Oct 7

Settlement of following

claims:

1ou....

..$

47.68

Lisa.•

117.88

Kevan.•

24.50

loward..

5 118.08

(Four settlement sheets

are enclosed.)

$505.75

Oct 7

Settlement of following

clalms:

Lisa.•

..$ 112,49

Kevan.

63.75

Kevan..

189.74

L180..•

139,77

$ 505.75

(Four settlement sheets

-are enclosed.)

$

60.00

To be made

Refund of advance

premium

Nov 4

payments made on your Ilfe

Insurance policy which you

cancelled.

I am also forwarding herculch some bille and receipes

which

your Insurance representative has returned wich

appropriate notations on each.

I belleve you will want to

retain these for posalble future use.

Sincerely,

John

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SEGRET

i was your int

4 October 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

chiece ot Personnel

Contract Personnel Division,

(P), Contract Employee

Request for Contract Amendment

It is requested that Subject's contract, which

was effective

1965, be

amended with respect to

living quarters

allowances

bursement for

allowance.

The proposal for this 75%/25% sharing basis,

in lteu of che

standard 50%/50% basis, has been reviewed

and approved by Mr. Thomas M. Karamessines.

7. Pausel

Davis

Chief, ie Suppore State

SECRET (C

---

## Page 14

14-00000

& CRET

15 September 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Mr. Thomas H. Karamessines

Housing

The following

is a listing of the GS-13 and above

staff employees and

their quarters costs as of April 1965:

Grade & No. of

Dependents

Allowance

Cost

Cost to

Individual

(COS) GS--16 (3)

GS-15

(1)

GS-15

(0)

GS- 14

(5)

GS-14

(5)

GS-13 (3)

GS-13

(3)

GS-13 (5)

$2,900

2,900

2,000

2,900

2,900

2,000

2,000

2, 000

$4,236

3,132

All cost paid

$116

1,800

2,796

3, 8-40

2,280

2, 472

2,544

0

4150.

140

236

272

Mir. Hunt's quarters allowance is $2,900.

Using

the same-formula as applied to the other staff employees

at the Station, the following would be

the figures:

$2,900 + 60% ($1,710) = $4,610

On a 50/50 percent sharing basis of the 60 percent,

would be out-of-pocket $870 1f his costs were $4, 610.

On a 75/25 percent sharing basis of the 60 percent, he

would be out-of-pocket $135, 1f his costs were $4, 640.

3.

I would recommend he be authorized the 75/25 per-

cent sharing basis of the

allowable excess costs up to,

but not to

exceed, 50 percent above

his quarters allowance..

Slavi 3. Paver

Davis B. Powell

Chief

WE Support

46%0

48÷

72.01

ú!'

....1

SEGRET

---

## Page 15

ULCHET

3 September 1965

MEMORANDUN FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Divisioa

SUBJECT

: General

Specific - Paragraph Entitled or so loment

REFERENCE

: A. OGC Opinion 65-2476e, deted 12 Auguat 1965

B. Our Memo, dated 8 July 1905, Save Subject

This office berein recounends an ammendaent to

Supplemant dated & July 1965, to delete paragraph 7. entitled "Oftset."

Thie office acknowledges the OGC OpInion, Reference A, which

may retain without Agency salar. offset aby future

royalties earned as s raoult of his literary efforts based on the fact

cover does not include role of a writer.

As Subject's cover "activities" have been officially clarified

as being only a light one of a L

which the Agency will be makiog all entitlement paymenta and actually

be will receive no funds. from auy cover, this parapapa, which 1o misleading,

• has no seanlog in Subject's contract and it 1o bereby recoumanded that

1t be deleted fron

] Supplement.

4. Further, in future cases when a cover 18 so light that Subject

will not be receiving funda fron cover it 18 recoacended that no

"Offset"

paragraph be

Included in Supplements or Contraces.

Chief,

Attachant

Ref. A and B

01,

SEC.LT

---

## Page 16

14.00000

SESTET

OGC 65-2476a

12 AUG 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT:

_I Retention of

Royalties by a Contract Employee

1. You have requested the opinion of this Office in regard to

the retention of future royalties which might be earned by L

as & result of his literary efforts. We believe that he is

entitled to retain such royalties without an offset against his Agency

salary.

2. We have been advised by Mr. Gene Stevens, WE/Support, that

Officer. Therefore, paragraph 7 of his contract dated 4 July 1965 may

remain as written.

Royalties from the fictional works that he writes as

a profitable hobby will not be emoluments received from or through his

NORMAN D. BLOCK

Office of General Counsel

cc: Chief,L

_Branch

Mr. Gene Stevens, WE/Support

SEGUET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

3 AUGIONS

MEMORANDUM FOR : Office of General Counsel

ATTENTION

:

SUBJECT

Retention of Royaltles by

• Contract Employee

l. Reference la made to the telephone conversation

of 26 July 1965 between yourself and

of

this Office wherein background information relating to the

assignment of

was diacussed.

2. Subject will apparently develop

a field wherein he has an already demonstrated talent based

upon several publications. The objective of the cover le to pro

vide a basis of attribution for some of his income. At the time

of the preparation of

contract, the specific

detall of his cover was uni nown.

3. Request your opinion In rexard to the retention of

possible royaltied earned byl

aa a result of bis

Ilerary efforts or whether such income should be properly

Chiel, Contract Personnel Division

Attachmente.

OP/CPD:

Distribution:

/ew: 2 Auguat 1965.

Orig & 1 -- Addressee

2 -- CPD

---

## Page 18

14-00000

TO

FENDER MILE GNESE CL AASIR

(1A:SMIFD

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLI

NAME AND ADORESS

DATE

INITIALS

Lire/pt - Stive

1.6.1D8)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Kemarkes

DIRECT REPLY

DISPAICH

FILE

NFORMATION

2189' 4703

PREPARE REPLY 4 2 2

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

uin to erit a postiffice 207

FOLD'HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADORE93

AND PHONE NO.

1/8512

UNCLASSIFIED

COSFIDENTIAL

DATE

14°4

SECKET"

140)

13* 1º 237

Une previous editions

LET POIDVRE O68IC8 1801 0-257289

---

## Page 19

ross Security to wilch see

ein susid lus frismeuie

will ceiluce

costut with stution.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

ST0RO1

8 JuLy 1265

D.: PE

i sudy dios

ST-Tui: Cuntrict Failigoe

DESENDE T. :

Vite and tuur chica:

1a. 1d

ne 2l aia.

Sub!al suo curteed toit mie biderio vis boing todo di serie alla sia

seguit of lae briorina totid or pres-red

ind tui?

Subjeck-lu-procoeding.sbrv.d.ue a mitred OD CD olfleet dia la roy

purBula; i stoer in & ariter.

3ubjoct ind rond hlo Contret. Rie parson procent it te artering More

subject: nid tais

Division Didre:

nd the underulgaco Certifying dificer.

Tue signill representillie briocoi dubjoce regadina blo capina alos.

Tendoa ricrs pijrilled allounnees.

posod Purela: Daby Dia, Sheet bio used aná in artichi cone dila do idro to

urrired in raice.

mo ma Comliçce porosentrelio hid arderad indicot 4a

"ne groedurs by which de vili tulilal hid federni ti regeralig do aurea

bubjoct during ise brlering vere

sere tuo polata salch vere ti re:lited cargior dy la. cucy toro:

n.

Reiloa of Suypleneu. Miitive io quirsers allosince bolia y.j-

rilled and punicoul. bic.

Plano enl1 for 3ubjocs du eil Mila Sanith Bunecury Dir.a1on

11031 S:06 recount.

Tate ruad bill tore dio oporsclon i noin indile 1i

Ti be lo do buro do (or liultori) cresce altu tir it daris.

of sue bricair ino discussed bolia:

Estates tras tutoralis

daeagrat in a18

SECRET

---

## Page 21

A.

Readqua tors

(1) 4112 pay.oll dubjo to corporation (and alloon. ec) outbo tsed

(2)

Will alvane Pui travel Luade and audit accountlit which lo to

ve aubaltted by subject whin a: unting coplete.

(3) 1911 davane fundo and recitre a: vuntis lo operational fund.

Hie float eccountlos vill t: upun coylas lotu prison. rt quartero,

and initially quarria choicefero, unlose actlilty var auto.

aure frequent a: ourtire pe:lue.

B. 980t103

will provide only coorgen:y support no needed.

aruB Of Controit and AlUlblons: IlerA

11) A110H00:00 -

Sunject vao Infomod that alleou.es were oubject to flu: tuation

as a scoult uf ¿londardlzed or KUEAK regularlous hanges.

1a.) jubject vas adviecd to notify Headguarters of chaceon to blo fontly

atotus as auch changos would offcut allouaa. un boing myroiied

wbero ratus aic

deteratred by subjest's taclig acate.

112)

¿aujoce vas advined that a recuipe la raguired uhe e praticable

or a certification in l'cu oh roseipt should de aubalted fur Did

caimburseable cape ses In the sauunt of $14.00 or 2ore.

(30). Ira:ol

Suuject vas briefad In coucrel regarding relaburainble In:idental

craval catiticate in regard to his propored itinerary.

AmoTo the polato

wired wete the folloire:

do Per Diea rate a applicable to Subject's proposed Itinary

D. Exceas bogusie portoions uben ceonons/ecurlet fliesto aro saud

Eretate: Irm astoner:

‚SECRE!

---

## Page 22

SESHET

C. Uso of lesa than flist :Losa al' trave!

accodidatiose

D.

Use of Amorican alilicea

(30) 55r0.ts Shipent

Suiject vos briefed la geceroi regarilog ble sUlli authorisationg

0G follows:

(31)

(33)

(63)

(51)

i. The combime shipping ant otorage of buuschold eirecto to blaitod

to 13,500 p: UndB

not to: Subject.

B. • Fall shippent 1s

authorised.

• C.

Sublast sas ady!sed the futal of the anount of thi eifecto aturad

ond ohipped shall not cricod tbe alatrationa fu: anipeest abd

staroge sol farta as 13, 500 pounde pet.

300 poundo pet por taveller ubich any be usad as Fullivas

Whea entlay Journey la by surfaco traceportatico the 300 pound

authortsation in. tub aulpped. og surface transpo tation, or

van be in.luiod with housebuld efiocts snipeas.

FOLIGN CUSTOM DUE LES

The say be injuired to pay

Subject lol

forten sapo. 1 duty s: this rogulatory authorization vas diacuased.

Transpo sation Allowan:

Jubject vill to saxine Di: personal car obt repo res bu alil be

authorised a transpo: potloo Ailovance l. yel detaculued by Dielaion.

Phe Allusan:o ls to to paid sostlly by Haadquarte s.

Subject vos wurteed de rould to estleled to thle ailorane and ba

van briofed as to its proviatone as outlined in tie itandanised

Parcanent Perecoal Gus-tere

subjuit vas advioad that his quartero vould be ada! latored to oc-

sardance mith fi ij-100, and tbin tha prorialuca ci ible igulation

vero explaired to biu. Emerer; Divinion Bar Uffl ar liberja So

point fur posalbid coctra. negendes. In poutdie a

quartere alloran o at easieur Scada dised rate aid to le bun-

acccuntable.

SECRET

---

## Page 23

14-00000

(00) Leave

(610) suble it was

inforced ut blo loore balences oo of 3 July 1865:

A/L. 37: houn acd 6/4 633 bours.

(63)

(71)

182)

(84)

Liavo BeDefito

Subje:t vas infored of acruolo, une, and arry-drer for 00r.u91

(350 houro) and stil icave unile oversedo.

Aloo, hu vas infused

leadquarters fora-do leave belances to the field arauadiy.

Insurance

Subjeit ves info.ood that coate lo ured for Insuros o proraction

of bagsege, effects,

an and their shipoou? are considered pi sonal

and are not rolaburacatic by kubrak.

Eâu otion and Edu atlocal Travel AlLowancee

TheBe

regulatory

provintona vere dir. uased as the agce of suoye:t's

chlid en indicato

hts chligibility.

All offiila, caplogres are ro

quired to sond children to U.S. Militaiy s:hool, Subject's ai. arenas

vIll be equal to tbat authurlead for other ls nos-utilital personel

10 erca..

Operatlonol Bxronges

Fuue: vos bricied in gone:al toros agarding advancos, control,

sofakceping, a counting, recuipto, and othor supportidd suraurio

tative documentation.

A tbo: ough brieflag was given Subjeit regardina this topl: 1e..

accordance with current regulations.

Other Operational Coontourationa

An operational back ac bunt la belig opeued though ibe tortory

Diviatoo to bouso an opiational advenie - anourt got undeterired.

subject von odvised voi to :0 alngle perauna, fundo vito airational

funda.

subjost Mall subalt hiu firat accounting upon eccapitoe

parcanent qua: tore and initially quarte ly chercarter.

F:C3 1b18

a:count ThA and Elucattoral ailoanie gajiento vili te rode and

reportod.

117. Taset wes advised be should Pile

overtly only.

sungest's k-2 le to be

forwaided by pouch and bie tax retun la to se returned by puùb for coiiing

to U. S.

SECRET

Enciate: tus gitonal':

40N2R7040G 855

---

## Page 24

STORET

SutJe.& has provided Headqua-terg wita ala bara 02:040% ful use a0 b

atateoldo allotte.

B. An uperátlocal tank ac out la do le catablished.

Chief,.

Brao.b

Distilbution:

Or16- aod 1

- CCB

1

Regiatry

Payroll

1 - H2/D1v1s1on

SECRET

672:79

Exatate tie trals

82037302, 816

Per: 8630:591129

---

## Page 25

14-00000

SEGRET

8 July 1905

NIHORANDUN POiS Contract Porsonnel Divlelon, O/P

BUBJECT

goneral -l

- Supplevens

#peeific - Paragraph Entitled "OFTSAT"

Lo. Thio office has a question as to tho Intent of Including

paragraph (7.) entitled "OrTser" es appears in the Contract for

The paragraph la question reado do follova:

7.

2. Dubjait repaitodly le proceeding abroad L

Subject will receivo all his contrectual benefite through the

7 au therefore the only ayparent

recalved from or through hial

corninge recolved fron artlios, storlas, ol books writton by hia. Please

into:" chia offico li 1to

Interpretation lo correct.

Is not, vo would

appreciate your interpretation end reasoning relativo to the statement

"Emolumento rocolved frai or through

property of the U.B. Governient.*

Chief,

---

## Page 26

Mr

Dear Mr.

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting

Officer, hereby contracks with you as a Contract Emplojee for the use

of your services and the performance of duties of a confidential nature

under the following terras and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideratlon for the use of your services

and the performance of specified confliential dutles you will be compen-

sated in an amount calculated at the rate of $19, 880 per annum. In addition,

you are herein authorised legislative salary adjuetments, within-grade

promotiona and l applicable, a post dilferential in subatantial conformance

with rules and regulations applicable to Government appointed employces.

Payments will be made as requested by you in' writing in an approver maso

пек.

Taxes will be withheld therefrom and submitted by thie organisation.

2. Allowances:

You will be entitled to: (3) Living quarters allow=

ances in conformance with regulations of this organisation applicable to

Ito appointed personnel.: In the event you are furnished quarters by tie

Government you will not be entilled to the living quarters allowances herein

(b) Cost-of-living allo: ances

in conformance with applicable regulationa of this organisation incluling,

but not limited to, a post allowance, a tranafer allowance and a home ser-

vice transfer allowance.

3.

Travel. You will be advanced or relm:bursed funds for travel

and transportation expendos for you, your dependents, your househo!!

effecte and your personal automobile to and from your permanent pos!

of assignment, and for you alone for authorised operational travel. In

addition, you will be entitled to storage of such household and person.!

ellecta as are not shipped, in conformance with applicable Government

regulations. You may be entitled to por diem in lieu of suboistence in

the course of all travel performed ber eunder and, when authorized, for

you alone while on temporary duty giray from your permanent post of

assignment. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for undor

this paragraph must be properly authorised, and expenses incurred hero-.

under are subject to payment and accountlag in compliance with applicable.

Government regulations.

4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed finda

for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to. entertain-

ment and the purchase al information, as specifically approved by the or-

ernmart. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting in coupli

ance with applicable Government regulations.

5. Repayment. It is recognised that your failure to account for or

refund any monies advanced fou bereunder shall entitle the Governmen: 1o

withhold the total amount of such indebieuneas or any portion thereof irom

any monies due you under the terma of thie contract in such manner da it

deems appropriate.

---

## Page 27

14-00000

6.

Benefito. (a) You will ber entitlod to death and doabili, benefits

equal to those authorized under the federal Employees' Compensation Ace,

as amended. Claims by you, yous heirs, or legal representati: po under

this paragraph will bo procedded ly this organisation In accordince with ite

procedures in such manner do not lo inpair security.

1b) You will be entitled so the contlnuance of pay and

allowances in a manner similar lo that set forth in the Mlesing l'ersong

Ace (50 U.S. C.A., App. 1001-1015).

(e) You will be entitled to sick, annual and home leave

(including travel expenses incilent thereto) equal to and subject to the same

rules and regulatione applicable to Covernment appointed employees.

Annual leave inay only be taken at firies and places approved in alvance by

appropriate Government representatives. All accrued but unus..! leave

credited to your former account as an appointed employee of this organia

ton will be transferred to the leave account eatablished for you hereunder.

(a)

An a 'Covernment employee under contract converted

from stall otatus without a break in service, it de required thal you continue

to make contributiona to the Civll Service Retirement Fund. Sun contri.

butiona (presently als and one/half per cent (0-1/2%)) will be dructed by

the Government from the badle compensation due you hereunder, 1.e..

presently $19,880 per anaum.

(e) You are horos authorised to apply for enrollment

In a health insurance program for certain selected Contract Employees of

this organization, subject to all the terme and conditiona of thai program.

It accepted, thie organtzation is presentlyauthorised.ta.beda a portion......

the premium cost, you will bear the remainder.

Your financial contribution

will be ellected either by payroll deduction or by direct remittince at

periodic intervala lo be established by this organization.

(1) (1) This organtration is authorized to pay the cost

of necesary hospitalization and related travel expenses for illness or injury

Incurred by a United States citizen full-time Contract Employes In the line

of duty while abroad.

(2) Thle organiration may pay certain necessary

costa of hospitalization and related travel expenses for illnes's or injury

incurred by the dependente of a United States citizen full-time ‹'untract

Employee permanently assigned abroad, while they are located abroad.

It is underatood and agreed that the eligibility and extent of the cirticipation

by you and your dependents in the above medical programs will be in con-

formance with the rules, regulationa and policies of this organizziion in

effect at the time an illness or injury ls incuried, that all clair. «ill be

submitted only to this organization and that adjudication of auch claims by

this organization shall be final and conclusive.

---

## Page 28

14-00000

3. Esecution of Documento. Il, In the performance of services under

this contrace, you ausume the custody of Government funda is lale sitle

of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever irate, which

property has in face been purchased with monies of ibe. U.S. liovernment.

you hereby recognize and acknowledge the exiatence of a trunt relationship.

either express or conatructive, and you agree to execute whatever docu-

ments my be required by tie Government lo evidence thie relationahip.

9. Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret thia contract

and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released

In writing by the Government from such obligatlon), with full knowledge that

violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the

Espionage Laws, dated 25 June 1943, as amended, and other applicable lawa

and regulations.

10. Instructiona. Instructions recolved by you from the Coverament

in brieling, training or otherwise are a pare of tbis contract ind are incor-

porated berein, provided that such instructiona are not inconsistent with

the terme hereof.

1l. Unauthorised Commitnents.

No promises or cominitmente per-

enining to rights, privileges or benefita other than those expressly atipulated

in writing in thin agreemont or any amendment therero oball he binding on

the Government.

12. Terma, Thie contract is effective ae of A July 1965

._._. and shall

continue thereafter for a period of tro (2) yeara unlesa sooner terminated:

(a) Upon aixty (60) days' actual notice by elther party bereto, or

(b) Upon actual notice to you in the event the resulte of an initially

required medical examination are determined by this organimation:

to be unsatialactory, or

(c) Without prior notice by the Government, la the event of a

breach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions

hereof or by your otherwise rendering yourself unavailable lo?

acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extended

upon notice from the Government. In the event of voluntary termination.on

your pars or termination for cause by the Government prior to the expiration

ol this agreemont or any renewal thereof, you will not be antitled do tétura

travel expeuses to the Untted States. Termination of this agreeinent will

not release you from the obligalione of any security oat you may be required

to take.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

DHL

Contracting Olficer

ACCEPTED:

.151

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

151

151

---

## Page 29

SECRET

CONTRACT IMFORMATION AND CHECK LIST:

(CONTINUED)

SHE INSTRUCTICNE OY PIEST SHEST.

5409104

989E807813+=

10.?. Nº 19:31

819; 'ita

ione Stevens

+4188039419T048I0

7157

20.030.8. HB 80-1000-8 and 00 e

2L Juno 1055

palattona for

All Benofita Nomally Applicable To Staff Personnel Except FEGLI.

SECTION 1X

COVEM

ACTIVITY

в0.

SNI900A1

(CARCA)

AD: IP COVER

PAYMENT

•(CAOCA)

COO TEMPLATED.

INEY

+**

APPACTIO CU @LINDUOSAOLE DABIS

I СОЛОКРВ

4008883

SLETION X

SECTION HI

OfF SET

INCONE

INCOME AND OTOIN EHOLUMENTS DERIVED ERON COVER

gran '"!

ТЕНИ

looo tAno Podal, Duntaly 1o cosarato nome

DATI

1983-9

DURATION

000 T=0

YERMIHATION NOTICE (RUMBRE Of GAYO)

60 d

SECTION XII

NO. PRIMARY PUNCTION (CA, 8I, PP, Oster)

EPPACTIVA DATE

ls July 1965

DEI FORFETPURE OF METURN TRAVRE POR RESISTONE PRIORI: ¿SUTRACT TEGMINATIO

2..

FUNCTION

SECTION XIII

SI, GERERAL DESCAIRTION DE DUTIAS

DE PERFORMED

DUTLES

Intel Officer

SECTION XIV

50. ENFRRIENCE

QUALIFICATIONS

SA. ROUCATION

(Shock dichina)

1D. LANGUAGE CRMPETEACY

~No 101000)

LANGUAGE

(croco eroerano)

AS. ARCA ANOMLEOGE

SECTION XY

SALOTMENT

PR:OR

TO CIA

89, GIVE INCUSIVE DATEO, POSITION POTLE DE TYPE MOOK. SALANY

ASO REASON POR LEAVING

34019І9W У

19.to T 9V

OR1019

SESTIO EVI

ACOLIIONAL 1S1 CHIATICA

AODITOOIAL O COUQUAL BRGUIDUITS, DUSTIOILATIONS. ON BIAIGRATIONE (GDO GIROS GODO I! ADCOGDEEDS

---

## Page 30

14-00000

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

1'90

SECRET

ragt

Gene Stevens

FLAPHONE ESTENSION

DATA

2 me 1985

SECTION

GENLHAL

8908

PD. PEONANTOT STATION

ALLOTMEAT NO.

6136-1342

# 0408

DADIVIRUAL MAR MIER CAGAGED

CIA DO ITO ALLITO METI

nd ablorr. Staff Employee

and preludo delta

Ly 1965

$ 23-5011

Terinal Salary GS-15 step 7,

§1,ii0 per anmen

CBCADANCE (Typo and dato)

MEDICAL CLEARANCE.

Grantod 23 June 65

PARAINED X OMITIATIO

UNDER "CONTROLLED CONDITIONS"

SHON BUBJECT•S HOME AND PEA

SUPEHVISION OF

EMPLONCE ON STAFO AGENT

1o.

PROPOSEO CAYEE:" (COMP

confface osalo.ro.

Contract Proloyee

SECTION

PERSONAL DATA

MENT REBIDENT ALIEN Y MIS

19. LEGAL. BIBIDENCE (CAly and BIDIO Of COURtESy

Larro, Florida

17. MARINAL STATUS (CAOCA DO ApPE

opelates

18. DAE ОГ DIATN (MOA8A. 00У, 9000)

Octin 9, 1918

CURRENT RESIDENCE (ClAy ind afalo ur counter)

Bethesda, Maryland

MUMBAN OF DIDIADIATS (MaP Including indialdual)

A PAD

i8.

IADIvIOUAL

INDIVIOUAL

'CO TO A STAI,

CURRENTLY

TuPLOvEE.

STAFE

AGENT OR

WORRINÜ TOR THE AGENCY ON SOME

RELATIONSM

Wife - 15

Dau

Dat

Son

Son

SECTION

NO..50€868451

No

12

- 11

- 21 Mos.

TP. VETERAN

Yes

88.

DOANCH OF SERVICE

RANK OR CRADE

u.s.

MILITARY STATUS

*a.

RETIRED.

ability.

INDICATE

socoico

CATEGORY

(longoodly, combor die.

disabiddey non- combat)

85.

DRAFT ELIGIBLE

DEIFY DEFERMENT OSTAINED

AT CIA

SECTION IY

BASIC ALANY

COMPENSATION

8B. POST DIFFCRENTIAL

28. COVER (Breakdown, lf anp)

IC. FEDERAL TAX BIINHOLDINO

COvER

CIA

159

$19,280 per annum

SECTION V

a1.

QUARTERS

YeS

none

POST

YeS

none

ALLOWANCES (NORMALLY GRANTED ONLY TO RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATIS)

39. 69 HER

Cost-of-Iving, Education, ILA

none

SECTION VI

93.

TRAVEL

A

MHE TO BE STORED

BITH DEFEMDENTS

07 rs

PERSONAL VENICLE TO BE SHIPPLO

TRANSPORTER INCLE TORE

"'I FOR OPERATIONAL TRAVEL

X I

X THES

#ITA DEPETCIRTS STATE RELATIONSHIP, CITIZENSHIP, AGE

AND DATE OF BIRTH

40.

Wife

Dau

Dau

Son

Sen

0.

U.

S.

U.

S.

U.S.

Vasa

15

1Ls

12

11

21

105 e

SECTION

819 60808498668:11

CPIRAPIDNAL

EMPEASES

d.

ross mon autharied

yes, when authortled

---

## Page 31

6 January 1985

SRET

MENORAIDUN TO: Benefita & services Division

SUB-RICT

& Cause of Illnese • I. Howard Hunt

Raving been reguested to give an opiuion regardin, the

orgins of the duodenal ulcer for which I man boapitallied vetober

12-15, 1964, I Dollove 16 to have resulted Mron thres years oi vort

frustration and profesalenal discoelafaetions occasioned by (A) Agency

fallure to assign no en an appropriato post abroad follorir: ry partl

eipation in Project J1A1%, anj (b) tho passive, Boa-challou, lue naturo

of tha domostle vork I ms given.

2. I ahould point out that betare Joining Profect AnTS in May,

1960, I requestod in uritias, and vas grantod by responalble ventor

officialo, comitrent to rotura ne to an approprtate assig eut abroad

upon the termination of MaTE. Despite continuing verdal assurances

In the ensuing three jears I tad not dent abroad.

Insteau, I was

retained in donostle duties wbich I felt vero lnccnaistent vith the

beavier responutbliftlea diocharged by no duriag a long anl active

operational career abraii.

3. Tho 9/0 poaltion I lnve been oceupying - Chief oi Covert

Action Por DO Division - 10 thn equirlent of + 1953-50 850160z90t

on Chief of Covert Action for J8 Divialon. Organtsationally I am

ware I ma 11-12 years ago, but tith a mollar stars abil iny fever

respensibilities.

4. To me thia represented a professional dead-end, vithout hope

of promotion or rarelau asslent, a altuation vaich preneuled y

mind and in due course found physical reflection la dualsini bemorrhago.

but provided In response

or the record, the foregoing inforration is nor volunteered

so as arMelal roquest.

SOLARD BLET

---

## Page 32

7 Deceaber 1963

MEOZANDUM FOR: MI. E. Howard Hunt

SUBJECT

•8 B&C ClaLm

Raturned hereulch Is Gl-l (in duplicate) and

CA=? (in dolleate) whlch you completed in comection att

your recent liness.

The Benefles and jervicoa Division has requestad

the following Infomation:

so statement of medieal hlatory • For 99

atcached for thia purpoce..

P.n0319

Co

and statement no to what he

cause.

itatement from you, describlug in full, re you

hink the contalbuting cause may be.

VirgInia c. Lync:

DU/versonnal

Attachments = 1/5

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT

DATE

ESTABLISHED FOR

TO:

(Chact)

ATTH:

REF:

CHIEF, PERSONNEL OPOFATIONS DIVISION

CHIEF, OPERATING CONFONENT (For action)

FILE NO.

1O CARO NO.

CAPLOYEE NO.

KEEP ON TOP OF ELLE

Block Records:

(OPHENO 30-800-18)

a. Temporarily for

_days, elfective

B. Continuing, offective.

LE COVER IN

EFFECT

Submit Form 642 to change limitation category.

(HHB 20-7)

Ascertain that

(NB

20.888-1)

being Isseed.

Submit Form 1322 for any change affocting this cover.

(8 340-230)

Submir Form 1323 for transferring cover responsibility.

(8 280-290)

Remorks:

Cover History

DISTRIATIOT: Co8+1-800.6089 8.090

+ Ga

* 1551

8029 1.01 D 08. 6009

SECRET

---

## Page 34

14-0000

MEMOARDUM FOR ATIACHNENT TO GI? illed by i iloward Hunt

"y first knowledge of dir. Hunt's Illness was on the

mosming of 12 October when his offlee Informed me chat he

bocame 1il and was taken to the hospical ulch a "blooding

ulcer®. He has been on alck leave since chat dnte.

Those to Schreyer

ixecutive Officer

---

## Page 35

C00OG-P1

b. " 1283 inside

Pario: :..

Carrat

5065

reigrant in

.....

---

