# 104-10422-10214

## Page 1

11041042210214]

MATERIAL REVIEVED AT CIA MEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MARBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUII:: BOOK I - INVESTIGATION OF JFK

ASSASSINATION - PERFORMANCE OF

THE INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES

EBACXEROUND FILE ON "72 WORKING GROUP STUDY,

INCLUSIVE DATES:

1963 TO UNDATED

COMMENTS ON BOOK I

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: /G-BRECKINRIDEE

5SC FINAL REPORT!!

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

7DES8

DATE

RETURNI:")

REVIEWED BY

(PRINT NNIE)

CHUCK BERR

SIGNATURE OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chua Beh

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED: FROM TIIS FILE.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

7:

CITY

Lee Harvey OSWALD first came to th

attention

upon receipt of AIRGRAM no. 1301, dated 31 October 1959, from

the

United States Embassy in Moscow, in which it was stated that

OSWALD had appeared at the Embassy on 31 October to renounce his

American citizenship. He stated that he had applied in Moscow

for Soviet citizenship after his arrival in the Soviet Union on

15 October. The first public reference to OSWALD appeared

in the

Washington Post of 1 November 1959.

that

On 2 November 1959, the FBI liaison officer requestedpa...

trace

CIA's

be run on Lee Harvey OSWALD in the Ag

central hold-

The

ings.

a response on 4 November was negative.

Because of the counterintelligence implications of

OSWALD's action, the Counter Intelligence Staff opened an offi-

cial file on Lee Harvey OSWALD to accommodate biographic infor-

mation developed by the Agency in response to a Department of

State inquiry, dated 25 October 1960, on a list of American de-

fectors in Soviet Bloc countries. OSWALD's name was one of those

appearing on the list. CIA forwarded an interim reply on 3

November 1960; a final reply on 21 November 1960.

Until early

October 1963, the contents of the OSWALD file held by CIA consis-

ted entirely of press clippings and reports disseminated by the

"Department of State, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the

Department of the Navy.

On s October 1963, the CIA Station in Mexico City rePeive

indian it nettato source te the offact doe "an Ameri

can named Lee OSWALD had contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico

City on Tuesday, 1 October 1963. He had spoken in halting Russ

sian to the Soviet Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV,_to

whom he said he had visited the Embassy two days earlier, on

Saturday, 28 September. He asked whether

there had been a reply

to a telegram

that the Consuly with whom

he had spoken, but whose

name he could not recall, had promised to send to Washington.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

OBYEDKOV had attempted to establish the identity of the Consul

with whom OSVALD had talked: if it had been a dark person, then:

it had probably been [Valeriy Vladimirovichl KOSTIKOV. - OBYEDKOV:

after checking with Soviet consular personnel, assured OSWALD the

telegram had been sent to Washington but no answer had been re-

ceived.

This information

received in Headquarters at 9 Octoher. (MEXI-6453 CIN

36017

9 October 1963.LA file check on 10 October by Agency

personnel In Washington revealed the possibility that the fee

OSwALD who had spoken with OBYEDKOV, and presumably with KOSTIkOV

and Lee Harvey OSWALD, the defector. were the same person.

On TO October 1963, CLA Headquarters disseminated by cables

EDIR 74673, 10 October 1963) the report in substantiall the tom

124009: 2024802

and detail giver cove to government, agencies whose jurisdictiona

20900 1032600452

parem

ot the vary, and the Inntgration and Naturalization ser

vice. A comment was included insthereport noting the-liklihood

that Lee OSWALD was probably identical with the former marine who-

had defected to the Soviet Union in 1959.

[Comment: - For some un-

explained reason, OSWALD's statement that he had been to the Soviet

Embassy two days before on 28 September 1963 had nöt been included

in the dissemination.]

On the same day, 10 October 1963, CIA Headquarters sent to the

Mexico CIty Station

Lon a lengthy cable summary DIR 74830. 10 Detober

1963) of the background information held in the headquarters file

3289295064307532

On OSWALD: The Mexico city Station was instructed to pass the suba

stance of its october report to the local representatives of the

same U.s. Governient agenctes and deparments, that had been the

information in Washington

-to AgenEt

12606

in was passe

to the Lega

the

Minis

the

"Aff.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

OBYEDKOV had attempted to establish the identity of the Consul

with whom OSWALD had talked: if it had been a dark person, then

It had probably been (Valeriy Vladimirovich) KOSTIKOV.. OBYEDKOV/

after checking with Soviet consular personnel, assured OSWALD the

telegram had been sent to Washington but no answer had been re-

ceived.

this information

received in Headquarrers on l October [MEXI -6453 (IN

360372, 9 October 1963.l: A file check on 10 October by Agercy

personnel in Washington revealed the possibility that the Lee

7.33

OSWALD who had spoken with OBYEDKOV, and presumably with KOSTIKOV

and Lee Harvey OSWALD, the defector, were the same person.

On 10 October 1963, CIA Headquarters disseminated by cable

EDIR 74673, 10 October 1963] the report in substantially the form

and detail given above, to government agencies whose jurisdictional

interests had been established by a review of OSWALd's filed

32032105338

thes

Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of State, the De-

partment of the Nary, and the Immigration and Naturalization Ser

vice. A comment was included in the-report noting the-liklihood

that Lee OSWALD was probably identical with the former marine who-

had defected to the Soviet Union in 1959.

[Comment: - For some un

explained reason, OSWALD's statement that he had been to the Soviet

Embassy

two days before on 28 September 1963 had nöt been included

in the dissemination.]

On the same day, 10 October 1963, CIA Headquarters sent to

the

Mexico City Station

a lengthy cable summary [DIR 74830, 10 October

1963] of the background information held in the Headquarters sile

on OSWALD.

The Mexico City Station was instructed to pass the sub-

stance of Its October report to the local representatives of the

same U.S. Govermen agencies and departments, that had been the

information in Hashington

genet los the st

n was pas

ed

in Mex

ocrobes to the lega

rache as well' as

the

the Minister, the Conselor

or palitical At

the

---

## Page 5

13-00000

bysmans

caller

President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.]

for further information or follow-up investigation.

On 24 November 1965, after the news of the assassination had

reached Mercud the station indurated areviege all voice

Intercept

= photographie coverage of both the soviet and

review of voice intercepttranscripts.con=

225 1

ducted by the monitor and other Station personnel turned up other

conversations t

- on 27 and 28 September and

OnL

October 1965

These transcripts were reported to Headquarters

on 23. Novembor 1963 (MEXL-1023 (TN 67108) - MEXL-7025 (IN 67188),

and MEXI -70334 TN: 67232) E154

tron this review by the station it became evident that oSWArD

had also visited the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City and had talked

there with

clere a lexican natfonal, named silvia DURAN

032690437

ho assassination

publicity about Lee OSWALD, Silvia DURAN

had cold a number of relatives and friends that she had talked to

OSWALD about a Cuban visa.

bAR VISA. SilVIa DURAN and her husband, Horacio

-DURAN Navarto, were detafned and questioned by the Mexican police

from 23 to 25 November 1963.

After giving some of the details of her own personal back-

ground - she was an admitted leftist sympathizer and had formerly

worked for the Mexican-Cuban Institute of Cultural Relations - Sil-

via DURAN Said that when she first heard of the death of President

Kennedy she had been depressed and thought the assassin must have

desses:

been a maniac. When she learned he was associated with the MalT

Play for Cuba Conmittee" she dia not believe it.

15307602509

When she learned the name of the assassin was Lee OSWALD

she remembered he-was the man who had come to the Consulate about

20002006090980042044200405600063606263024

two months before to get a visa to pass through Cuba on his way-to

the Soviet Union.

she realized that he had said he was married

19 20-207

Russtan and that he had betonged to the "Fair Play fer

Cuba"

group.

"She checked her file on him

Consu

and

---

## Page 6

13-00000

from the description of OSWALD, she was sure it was the same man.

•.":

OSWALD was denied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have

a Soviet visa, and he was told to get the Soviet visa first, but it

was noted that this would require about four months.

She had asked

the Cuban Consul himself, Eusebio AZCUE; to talk to OSWALD and they

had an argument when AZCUE urged OSWALD to Teave Mexico instead of

watthis there. The consul had phoned the saviet consulate, and

talked to the person handling OsWALd's visa request, who had said

2218603690000369

"it would take about four months to hear from Moseow about the Sovi

visa

Thó

13444

tornOOn, OSWALD had come back again and

53-3468

cold him the same

8251

thing

She gave OSWALD=a slip of paper

-BEN

name and telephone

number on it in case he ever got his sov

460203082

He did not call back she said.

Silvia DURAN was reinterrogated by the Mexican police

Sooners

from 27 to 29 November but she did not change of add materially to

her Story about OSWALD.

it Is Known that the Cuban Ambassador In Mexico, Joaquin

HERNANDEZ Armas, reported on the detainment and interzogation of

Silvia DURAN by the Mexican authorities.

The Cuban Government aIso

sent the Mexiean Government a stiff note of protest, which the Mexi

can Government rejected.

On 26 November, the day after DURAN's release, Cuban Pre-

sident DORTICOS queried HERNANDEZ about his report. HERNANDEZ COnSI

6.532:242633

fted that there had been an altercation between OSWALD and Consul

AZCUE. DORTICOS made a persistent but unsuccessful effort to de

D: 45678 22.7

termine fron BerrADE? whother the Mexican authorities had. threate

nod Silvia DURAN so that she would nake a statement that the Con

2 wades 90002 2.

sulate "had given money to that American"

HERNANDEZ's response

was that nothing of that sert had happened, INEXT -7068 CTN

26 November 1963; HMMA-22545, 29 November 19631

19.17

The CIA follow-up investigation produced the following

confifmed results which have a bearing on Silvia DURAN's account:

398-2.

.27 September. In mid-afternoon, Silvia DURAN infor

---

## Page 7

13-00000

- 5a

med the Soviet Embassy that a male American citizen had

requested a visa to transit Cuba on his way to the Soviet

For"

Union. She desired to know with whom the American had

Threesh caret

spoke at the Soviet Consulate.

Also she indicated that

---

## Page 8

13-00000

the Cuban Consulate could grant him a visa and arrange

immigration details if the concession of a Soviet visa

were

assured.

b. 27 September. Pursuant to her inquiry, Silvia DURAN

received a confirmation from the Soviet Embassy that the

American had been to the USSR installation. He had shown

them a letter from

the Soviet Consulate in Washington indi

cating that he had been long awaiting a visa for himself

and his wife to go to the USSR. No answer had come from

Washington; however, the waiting period was sometimes

four

or five months. The American also had a letter attesting

that he was a member of a pro-Cuban organization but he had

claimed that the Cubans would not give him a visa unless he

had already received a Russian visa.

Although the American was still at the Cuban Consulate

Silvia DURAN

repeated that she could not give hima transit

visa unless a Soviet visa was forthcoming, notwithstanding

the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait there for his

Soviet

visa.

According to DURAN, the American knew no one

in Cuba

and she intended to make

an appropriate annotation

on the Americants card.

The Soviet official echoed her

statement that the American was not known.

c.

28 September. Silvia DURAN was again visited at

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City by the American seeking a

Cuban transit visa.

Mrs. DURAN contacted at least two mem-

bers of the Soviet Embassy and facilitated a direct con-

versation between one of the Soviets and the American.

Speaking in poor-Russian, the American stated that he alr

ready had been to the Soviet Consulate and had left an ad-

dress. The Soviet official replied that he was aware of

that. The American suggested that he had not known his

address then, and he had

gone to the Cuban Embassy to ask

for the address, because they had it. The American then

---

## Page 9

13-00000

6

acceded to the Soviet official's invitation to come by

and give them the address.

d. I October. To mid-morning an unidentified individual

speaking broken Russian, contacted the Soviet Military

Attache in Mexico City. He said he had been to the Em-

bassy the previous Saturday (28 September) and had talked

with a Consul who had said they would send a telegram to

38 27743022

Washington: had there been a reply? He was referred to

the Consulate for the information

Prese

were promptly disseminated in

by the crAnto the

ste House, the Department of State, and the

Federal Bureau

igation.

fOut Teletype no. 84915, dated

23 November 1963; CSCI -3/778,826, dated 23 November 1963.]

8030S4

Wu is belteved that the soviet offreial with whom osw

dealt In Mexico CLoyawas Consular, Attache Valeriy Vladimirovich

koSTIov, born on Moscow, i7 March 1933. In his letter of 9 Novent

ber 1963 to the Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSWALD wrote about.

"his "meetings with Comrade KOSTIN [sic) of the Soviet Union In Mext

co City, Mexico" There is no official of the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City with a name resembling "KOSTIN" other than Consul

KOSTIKOV =

KOSTIKOY was the senior officer of five

Soviet Consular

representatives who dealt with visas and related matters:

There

was firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIXOV was a Soviet

State Security (KGS) officer, and the other four consular officers

were also known or strongly suspected of being Soviet state Securit

personnel serving under official cover.

KOSTIKOV was believed to-be a-member of Department Thir

2626-366442280

teen of the First Chief Directorate of the KGB. Department Thiz

66632852

teen is responsible for executive action, including sabotage and

assasstration. Its headquarters according to very rettable ta.

formation conducts interviews of, as appropriate, file reviews on

every foreign military defector to the UssR to study and to deter

---

## Page 10

13-00000

mine the possibility of utilizing the defector in his country of

ofigin.

[Comments OSWALD's contact with a kite one cat darty

no slice pedes me partment, was an

00ss:06

merain

ur more sinister reasons thanto

brain travel documents allowing him. to pass through cuba on his

Therefort

way to the soviet union.

-CIA

great deal of the and effort In trying to make a determination as

to whother OSWALD, as the assassin of president Kennedy, might have

een acting in the capaiety of a witting agent of a foreign power

and study of all available material

providionis

12202

→ that OSWAlD had heen acting under direc

tion of the KGB:

The Agency also examined all available information in

attempt to determine the exact nature of his contacts with the Cu

ban Consulate in Mexico City. The Agency was equally unsuccessful

•"-»

in uncovering any evidence that OSWALD's contacts with personnel

of the Cuban Consulate had any other motive than to obtain a tran-

sit visa for Cubar

wanting

паи

oswaLD's reasons fortraveling to the Soviet Union have

never been satistactorily determined.]

---

## Page 11

13-00000

"The evidence indicates that

Lee Harvey:

OSWALD: was. in Mexico City from 27. September

1963 through 2 October 1963. = On October 10

1963, Bureau Headquarters was provided with

-a copy of a CIA cable which stated that ! Lee

Henry OSWALD! (sic] had been' in contact with

the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City on

ber 28, 1963. 36

- Footnote no. 36: CIA cable from Mexico Station

to FBI Headquarters 10/10/63, memorandum from

LEGAT, Mexico City to FBI headquarters, 10/18/63-

= A1] the information that the FBI had prior

to November 22, 1963, on OSWALD's activities in

Mexico: City came from the CIA. On October 3.

:1963, the CIA Mexico. Station reported to Head-.

quarters that OSWALD had been in contact with t

the Soviet Embassy:

1965, CIA

passed this information with some background

distribution to FBI and State Department offl

cials 1o Mexico Since OSWACD was. an American

and since FBI was the responsible

agency disseminating this information ended.

CIA's responsibility in this matter.

Even in above quote from Book Vet

The CIA dissemination of 10 October 1963

m20202689301

DIR 74673) to the FBI: Navy, and State, made no mention

Of OSWALD'S contact with the Soviet Embassy on 28 September

24620007A5 4204201973

1905- Although this fo matton had been reported to lead

quarters by MEXI 6453 (IN 36017), 9 Oetober 1963, the action

desk negloeted to include in its dissemination that in

tion to OSWALD's telephone call to the Soviet Embassy an

I october, OsKArD had manstened that he had etsited the

Soviet Embassy on 28 September 1965.

2t.sr:

On 8 October 1963, not 3 October,

the CIA

45Y75622363

Mexico Station reported to Headquarters that OSWALD hac

been in contact with the Soviet Embassy.

The cable was

received in Headquarters on 9 October 1963.

The Mexico Station made a similar distri

bution to FBI and State Officials In Mexico on 16 October

1963.

This memorandum addressed to the Ambassador with

copies to The Minister, the Counselor for Political Af

fairs, the Regional Security Officer, the Leg

the Legad Attache,

the Naval Attache, and the LaNS representative included

---

## Page 12

13-00000

the statement that "This office determined that OSWALD had been

Son out a da.

at the Soviet Embassy on 28 September 1963 and had talked with

Valerty Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV, a member of the Consular Sec

ation, in order to learn if the Soviet Embassy had received a

reply from Washington concerning his request.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

1c is also instructive to note

that CIA Director John McCONE telephoned

FBT DireCTOr HOOVER an the morning of No-

vember. 26, 1963, and after noting that the

President wanted to make sure

the CIA was

giving the FBI full support, specifically

offered to make

'CIA's operational resources

in Mexico

available to the Bureau.

The Committee has seen no evidence that

the FBI asked the CIA to conduct an investi-

gation or gather information on the assassi

nation case, but middle-level CIA personnel

did routinely provide the Bureau with infor

mation that came to their attention

in the

assassination case

50o

24294220

Coment: Herev chen incomplete 115C OF requests From the FBI

for assistance and information from the CIA. The list speaks

£0533

Itse

26-November

1963

Subject:

Richard Thomas GIBSON.

(Paraphrase)

During the afternoon of 26

MOrenDer INANITION 1? passed to the FDI

representative in Bern a report (quoted

in full in the cablo).

Tho FBI reproSon

tative immediately notified ELMARD (P)

and after discussing the content of the

report it was agreed that ELMARD would

CaRFaCE INANITION SORRESEN

"ELMARD em-

-phasized the utmost importance the US

Government attached to follow-up of this

matter ELMARD received prompt answers

to initial questions and arranged to meet

WICH INANITION/ZO, INANITIONTo in company

with the FBI representative in Bern.

[BERN 2492 (IN 68312), 26 November 1963

28 November 1963

Subject:

Rumored $5,000 bank deposit

made

by OSWALD upon return from

Mexico

on 3 October 1963.

The FBI has just levied on us an official

request for full information on source

she can on came mann tine men me

dollars. bank deposit.

(DIR 85654, 28 November 19631

---

## Page 14

13-00000

28 November 1963

. Subject:

Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO

The FBI liaison officer (S. PAPICH) offi-

cially advises that the FBI requests CIA

LEturn ALVARADO over: to Mexican authorities

and that CIA request the Mexican

authori-

ties to interrogate ALVARADO in detail.

FBI reports that it understands. that the

Mexican authorities have a capability of

polygraphing and requests that CIA ter

quest Mexican authorities that he be poly-

graphed.

The FbI expressed a desire to have

sults of the interrogation as soon as. possi

Ole and that the Legal Attache be kept

advise

of developments:

DIR 85663328 November 1963]

9

MT: PAPICH Teferred me to DIR 85665, 28 November

He referred to the fact that-there set

report that the Third Secretary of the Cuban if

Subassy In The Hague, Ricardo SANToS, has a pro

CASTRO brother in the United States- He stated

that he would appreciate our cheeking our files

or taking such other steps as may be fndicated

torprovide the Buroau with the identity of the

brother said to be in the U. Ser

[Memorandum from CI/SIG to Chief, WH/3, 29

November 1963.]

December 1963-

Subject: Chinese Communist and CASTRO Plot.

J0/9020 99280

At uyuu on 9 December. 1963 Mr. PAPICH of the

FBI called "and advised that the Bureau had a

conmunication fron their Miami field office

setting forth information which had been re-

ceived in a memorandum fron our office in

Miami concerning a report which had been re-

coived from a Westorn diptonat alloging that

" the assassination of President Kennedy was the

result of a plot prepared and executed jointly

by the Chinese communists and CASTRO through

internediaries.i

ME. PAPICH stated that the Bureau would like

to evaulate this information if possible

neid the he source and no in rested te

any Information we can give on where and now

this diplomat got this Information since ft

would help the Bureau to evaluate this informa-

tion. He said that the Bureau would

Send the

stings

---

## Page 15

13-00000

identity of the source and possible access

to the source, if in this country,

most

helpful. ar

[Memorandum for the Record, dated 9 December

1963; Subject:

Lee Harvey. OSHALD.]

18 December 1963.

Subject:: Nomenclature of Weapon possibly

owned by Lee Harvey OSWALD.'

On 18 December 1963 a representative of your

Bureau requested clarifying Information about

certain Soviet romenclature believed to refer

tea firearm once possessed in the Soviet Unton

*by -Lee OSWALD.

Wer were

asked to determine what kind of weapon.

this

67.9i

sto the FBI

dated 19 December

1963: Subjecte Nomenclature of Weapon possibly

Omediby slee Harvey: OSWALD. I

:1964

L BE on December 27, 1960v a Shidato

been forwarded to a friend of his named

Jose Antonio Juan. A

Mr. Juan had received. the

his-son living in Cuba:

the statement was

made

rit is

known here that RUBINSTEIN was here a little

Tess than a year ago visiting a MI PRANSKI

owner of a shop dealing in: tourist articles,

located on Prado. street between Animas and

Trocadero, opposite the Sevilla Biltmore."

It is requested that, through available sources

of your Agency

you develop any information.c?

possible relating to the above quoted statement

win an effort to resolve the allegation that

Jack :L. RUBY has possibly visited Cuba since

1959 and has connections there.

[FBI Memorandum to the DDP,

dated 7 January

7964r Subject.

Jack L:- RUBY"

9 January 1964

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD

Ättached fs a copy of a memorandum from the

Federal Bureau of Investigation on Lee Harvey

*OSWALD dated 31 December -1963 and

an enclosure

to the memorandum containing names and addresses

found in OSWALD's address book and other papers

at the time of his arrest in Dallas, Texas. It

will be noted that the Bureau has asked us to

---

## Page 16

13-00000

determine whether any of the listed names,

addresses or telephone numbers have in the

past been connected with the Soviet intelli-

gence services

[Memorandum for Chief. OS/SRS; dated 9 January

1963; Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD.J

14 January 1964

Our Chief of Station in Mexico dispatched Cable MEXI

(IN: 98273)], advising of a request on the part of the Legal

Attache for the development of information Concerning one Daniel

(SOLIS' knowledge of ROJAS,

whose name appears

to be--Lario ROJAS:

Villanueva

a year american eleizen residing a Guadala ara

alleged notebook said co ue In Chenpossession gaSoLiSorang

alleged oftical out her american government sarconiever

NO NUDES

ha Cozonel, waned Atbert

date

Memorandum

OSA

7- February: 1964

Subject

•Eladio ROJAS Villanueva:

the Legal Attache in Mexico City would prefer that the

Cos tell Luis ECHEVARRIA, acting minister of gobernacio, name of

subject and that with ROJAS" agreement plan to give him a polygraph

and promise ECHEVARRIA a brief statement of the resukts of the test.

The Legal Attache in Mexico City would prefer have the d

polygraph given in Mexico City; he could, if CIA strongly prefers

get their headquarters and subject's agreement to go to Texas.

(MEXT-8117 (TN 15081) February 1964T

12 February 1964

Legal Attache (in Mexico City) requests the following

additional questions be put to Daniel SOLiS:

a Verify Lf SOLIS has received two letters

recently from Eladio ROJAS Villanueva aka Eladio

VILLANUEVA regarding notebook.

---

## Page 17

13-00000

Ask SOLIS to forward notebook if found to:

Mr. Edwin O. JOHNSON, Consulado Americano, Guaga

lajara, Jaliscor

-Letters in possession of VILLANUEVA indi

Pean 122A

cate. he.was in Cozumel-with Daniel SOLIS-for

•27.23

at least three months in 1963.

_Can SOLIS re-

call dates?

d:

ASK SOLIS if VILLANUEVA was in contact with

Cubans or Americans while in Cozumel. Ask him

how VIELANUEVA occupied his time..

5-bE

[MEXT- 8194 (IN 18129), 12 february 196413

25. Pébruary: 1964

Subject

Jack

-RUBT..

ectated is you could prompti

388345

nformat

son avartable to you to

travel by RUBY d

• SCOTT

dated 3 February 15000

Legal Attache (Mexico City) , Subjects

[Memorandum

from. Cla

Jack: Le

-RUBY ai

ANDERSON

13 April 1964

Subiect Lee Harvey OSWALD'S Access to Classified

Intormation about the U=2-

Reterence is made to your letter, dated 13

April a captioned neg Haney were

tea cue Russians cubal

: and: to -the

As 12051

attachent which contained statements made

Your Jetter

requested certain Information regarding sub-

226928

Jectes Marine assignment at the Naval-Air

* #3

Station Atsugir Japan, in-1957-and 1958."

Memorandum for Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation,

dated 13 May 1964, from CIA. J-

---

## Page 18

13-00000

10 June 1964

Subject: "Lee Harvey OSWALD.

"To is believed this allegation that

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco, should

be investigated and you are requested to

conduct the necessary inquiries, if pos

sible, to resolve the allegation. Inasmueh

as it appears that the President's Conni

ssion contemplates the issuance of its re

port in the near future, it is believed

this matter should be handled expeditiqusly

Memorandum to Directot,

Central Intelligence

Deputy Director, Plans,. dated 10 June 1964,

SJul 1964

LEe-HarVEy OSWALD.

ten the foregoing factore youra

be appreciated if you would review material

vailable to you concerning the activity of

Radio Moscow in an effort to identify the

My wor

two-minute broadcast referred to by OSWALD

in the aforementioned documents

"We would also appreciate advice as to the

telephone number in 1959 and the current

telephone number of Radio Moscow and we would

134202

5-90277

appreciate advise as to whether or not tele-

phone number V 36588 was listed in the

7221009

1090

Moscow Telephone Directory.

"It would appear to us that if OSWALD particl

pated in a radio program for Radio Moscow, this

fact would have been known to the KGB and a re-

ference to

such participation would likely have

---

## Page 19

13-00000

been contained in OSWALD's KGB file.

"It would be appreciated if you would question

1786262

NOSENKO in light of the foregoing observations.

0007026

In this regard it is suggested that NOSENKO not

ba triormed of OSWALD's possession of the name,

address, and telephone number of Lev SETYAEV. "

Memorandum for Director, Central Intelligence Agency, Attention:

Deputy Director, Plans: Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD Taternal

Security - Russia Cuba, from Director, FBI. I

---

## Page 20

13-00000

"The [FBI] supervisor also testified

that he never

had the opportunity to ques

tion 'D' On- the morning he arrived* in

the CIA turned ID' over to the

requests to interrogate:

'D'. -He

learned that the Mexican police: had exhaus

tively interrogated

canted his allegations, and that he had re-

Footnote states. that "However, the FBI Mexico

CIty Legat later trad access to_'D' and interro

gated kin

FV.43)

SUD

9242473

onE: 221

Hovenber

and teft-on

December 1963

Comments: According to MEXI-7124,

28 November 1963 ALVARADO

was turnedsover

to the Mexican Ministry, of Government at 1630-

13060322222920590074

Washington tine on 26 November sa

This nove was made in

accordance with FBI'S request on 28 November 1963 to Headquarter

chat the Mextcan City Station turn AbARAdo over

CO MexICa

Fee DIR 8566328 November

19631

The inference of this quote from Book V'is that CIA

used obstructive tacties to prevent the FRI supervisor. from hav

1357665.0

access to ALVARADO. The authors, hovever, do mention in 2. 500t

note, that the legal Attache aid fain access to ALVARADO, but this

tactic does not remove the unspoken allegation from the main body

of the text that the CIA had been obstructive.

The Mexico City Station files show that the Station

and the Legal Attache worked closely together.

In fact, DIR 85661, 28 November 1963, tells the

Station

that Larry KEEMAN from FBI now in Mexico- He was sent especially

to follow up leads on the entire assassination. Headquarters asks

that the Station "cooperate with him fully"

---

## Page 21

13-00000

"On December 1

nation that a November 22 Cubana airlines co

flight: from Mexico City. to Cuba was delayed

sone five hours, from 6:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.

E.ST. awaiting an unidentified passenger. (68]

This unidentified passenger arrived at the

airport in a twin-engined aircraftiat 10:30:

petle and boarded the Cubana airlines plane

without passing through customs, where.he

would have needed to identify himself by dis

playing a passport.

The individual travelled

to Cuba in the cockpit of the Cubana airlines

plane, thus agatn avotting identification by

the passengers: [69]

Footnote nos. 68 and 69: Cable from CIA Head

quarters to Mexica Station

12/1/63

91V3 60-617

COMTent

enber

1963. 35717: 01792424159

then hours

sited in

at fiend

magraph are not exact.

shootnote

ablo dated 1 December 196302

cable

also incorrect

cable in question,

•DIR 86054-313

30. November 1963ItAreads as follows:

Has has received-report that on.day

of

Profident Kennedy IS astass ination (22 Nov)

Cubana alrerate delayed its departure Mexico

City five hours from 1700 to 2200 awaiting

important passenger who arrived Mexico city

Purists

Airport in private twin motor aircraft at

2150 hours Next time.

Passenger transferred

T0324/9505020220090

directly to cuban plane without going choost

customs

mn gration.

Travelled in pilots

-2.00 p

26.520220

cabin to Havana,"

Headquarters vent on co say that the infomacion came fron

KMULCER diplomat who had been a passenger on the same plane ta

-were Fed

Havana.

Headquarters asked the Station to attempt an identifica

tion and to determine the reason for such unusual actions at the

airport:

The Headquarters cable Is included in the OSWALD official file;

and a copy is also in the Mexico City Station files. There is

nO

indication anywhere that anything was done in response

to Head-

quarters' requirements.

---

## Page 22

13-00000

lOn December 3, CIA Headquarters first

received information from the Mexico Station

on a-Cuban American: According to Passport=

Office records, his file there was checked

on December 4 by a representative of the

CIA. This CIA representative testified that

he could not recall such a check or the ro

port." *(CIA Liaison Officer Testimony,

5/7/76, P=, 90)

"On December 5, the Mexico Station ca-

bled that a source saw the Cuban-American

board a flight from Mexico-City to Havana

reported that he 'looked suspicious'

also reported what was then known about his

itinerary.

LV. 301

Comments Accoraing to a Memorandu for the Recora, dated ia De

cember 1963, from CT/SIG, Tt- was subsequently?

determined

through

MeS. ROMAN of Liaison, who checked tha rocords not pass port

DivE

sion of the Department under the passport numbet

nainane:

aS

ID IN 72615 MEXT 72161 Chat the subject in chis instance

Fact a person other than the one cited by? the Bureau.

he subjec

of interest by reason of both name, and the number of the passpor

is shown in the Department of State Passport records as Gilberto

POLICARPO Lopez.

On 5 December, the Mexico Station did cable that

Gilberto LOPEZ "departed as only passenger on Cubana flight on

night 27 November for Havana. There was no mention that he "Tooke

suspicious This formation appears in a Memorandum for the kites

dated 5 December 1963, from Willard C. CURTIS, 1.e., On 3. December

1963 LITEMPO/4 reported that one Gilberto LOPEZ, U. S. citizen who

Hooked suspicious?."

arrived in Mexico on 23 November 1965 ene

74054/62

This small point does not, perhaps, mean much except

underline- the stoppiness of the authors of the report in setting

down the facts.

---

## Page 23

13-00000

"102.

The evidence also establishes. that

there was confusion as to which u.s.

conducting

the investigation in Mexico.

Althougn

the Ambassador and high lovel govomment officiato

in Washington believed that the PBI was conducting

the envestigation in Mexico, the fBI position

was that, although the FBI would cooperate, only

the estate department and cIA have jurisdiction in

getting investigative results abroad'.

(Memoran-

dum to A. Betmont, IT/?T/63.)

"Ironically, neither the Legat nor the Bureau

supervisor sent down to direct and coordinate the

the investigation' knew whether the state Department

or the CIA was

in fact investigating in Merico.

[V.40; footnote no. 102.1

Comment: I don't believe this statement. The FBI had the

primary responsibility for the investigation in the United

States and because of the FBI position in Mexico, the Legal

. Attache conducted investigations there; however, he worked

closely with our Station relying upon us for matters which

clearly fell within our responsibility for foreign intelli-

gence.

The inference here is that there was confusion as

to who was running the show, thereby building the argument

that the FBI and CIA failed to do an adequato investigation

of the assassination.

I'm sure there may have been some slippage but

nothing serious enough to cause a serious disagreement be-

tween CIA. and the FBI.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

"On the same day, a cable listing

DDP

HELMS as the releasing offioor as dispatehod

to CIA stations in Europe and Canada.

This

cabto stated that stationg ghould care fully

eramine material obtained from a specified

sensitive and rebiabie source,

-because of

obvious significance of any scrap of informa-

tion which bears on (thel assassination issue.

The Desk Officer in charge of the CIA inves-

tigation was unaware that such a message had.

een sent out and was at the time unaware o

sensitive and reliable source mentioned

[V. 29]

Comment:

The cable in question is DIRECTOR 85133 written

R. T.WALSH, WE/SPO. WH shows on distribution, therefore,

"Desk Officer in charge of the CIA investigation" should

have seen it. He should also have been aware of the

specific source - "Because of obvious significance any scrap

information which bears on President's Assassination desire

addressee stations screen carefully all audio tapes since

22 November 1963 for comments and cable any significant infor-

mation so obtained."

---

## Page 25

13-00000

-At-Loon on November 2535

American, appeared at the American Embassy

in Mexico City: (351 He told Embassy per

(sonnel that he was in the Cuban consulate

on September, 17 and saw Cubans who discussed

assassination pay Oswald a sum of money. tHe

later repeated his story to the GIA Mexico-

Station Chief." [V. 28]

Comments: a.

ALVARADO at no time appeared at the American

Embassy some of our own reporting is inaccurate According

to ALVARADO"s Interrogation by Mexican authorities, he called

the American Embassy on 25 November land succeeded in speaking to

10534-432

a high official with whom he made an appointment for that same day

ed for the appointment us according to a note insthe Mexico

Station lesse dated 25, November;

& thes ewo men were SNIchland

PLAMBE CK,.

bothwere embassy secur

meeting

Securit

officers)

AEVARADO

claimed.

sulate on

the 18th of Septembers

not-

Embassy

ac been at

the

•Cat

tac

did he refer

sto the date 17 September

hiring

the

interrogatior

connection with the polygraph. exami

ation

On 6 December 1963

ALVARADO revealed he was

a was "unsure of the day of week anegedly sav

OSWALD.

thinks that it was on tuesday which would have been 17.

September US (MEXI-7289 (IN 75588),

7 December: 1963]

C....

At no time did ALVARADO repeat his story to the

"CIA Mexico Station Chieft ALVARADO first told his story,

dicated above, on 25 November to two officers of the Embassy Secu

rity Office. The next day, in the morning, the met with PLAMBECK

of the Embassy Security Office, and a Station

officer.

During the

meeting that he evening (26 November) ALVARADO was interrogated by

two officers from the Station.

INote for the Record, dated 25

November 1963, signed by PLAMBECK; Memorandun for Clark ANDERSON,

Legal Attache, dated 29 November 1963,

from winston M. SCOTT.

---

## Page 26

13-00000

"After OSWALD's return to this country in June

190%, he was interviewed twice by PBI agenta;

on each occasion he repeatedly lied.

He also

refused to be polygraphed about his negative

answers to questions of ties with soviet intel-

Ligence.

Yet the FBI closed the OSWALD security

case immedrately after the second interurew.

The case was re-opened in March 1963, but OSWALD

was not interviewed by the FBI until August 10,

1963, when he requested an interview after his

arrest in ler orleans for disturbing the peace.

In the occasion of this third interview, he again

repeatedly lied to FBI agenta A month ate,

OSWALD visited Merioo City, where he visited both

the Cuben and soviet diplomatic establishments,

and contacted a vice consul at the latter who was

in fact a keB agent.'

Comment:

"It is believed that the Soviet official with whom OSWALD

dealt in Mexico City was Consular Attache Valeriy Vladimirovich

KOSTIKOV, born in Moscow, 17 March 1933.

In his letter of 9 November 1963 to the Soviet Consulate

in Washington, OSNAID wrote about "his meetings with Comrade KOSTIN

(sic] of the Soviet Union in Mexico City, Mexicol, There is no

offieial-of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico with a name resembling

"KOSTIN", other than Consul KOSTIKOV.

KOSTIKOV was the senior officer of five Soviet Consular

representatives who dealt with visas and related matters. There

is firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIKOV is a Soviet State

Security (KGB) officer, and the other four Consular officers were

also known or strongly suspected to be Soviet State Security

personnel serving under official cover.

It must be clearly stated that Soviet intelligence and

security officers placed abroad under official cover normally are

required to perform the routine and legitimate business demanded by.

the cover job in an embassy or consulate.:

KOSTIKOV was first spotted as a KGB man because of his

travels around Mexico, his habitual association with known KGB

officers, and because consuls, in Soviet practico, are usually KGB

An intensive review of the files of our Mexico City Station

was undertaken immediately after the assassination to comb out any

previously unreported information about KOSTIKOV's activity. No use-

---

## Page 27

13-00000

-2-

ful new information bearing upon the assassination resulted from

this effort.

A close observation was maintained on the Soviet personnel,

KOSTIKOV in particular, for days after 22 November. Nothing unusual

or out-of-pattern was noted in the activity or movements of the

Soviet personnel.

From a memorandum, dated, 31 January 1964, Bassed to J. Lee RANKIN

of the Warren Commission. See XAAZ-22594 (509-803)]

It is also possiblo that OSWALD may have spoken to one

other Soviet officer, Consul: Pavel Antonovich YATSKOV. The foltowing

remarks wore attributed to YATSKOV in Mexico City regarding Lee

Harvey OSWALD.

"I met OSWALD here. He stormed into my office

and wanted me to introduce and recommend him

to the

cubans.: He told me that he had tived in the Ussr.

I told him that I would have to check before I could

recommend him.

He was nervous and his hands trem-

bled, and he stormed out of my affice.

I don't

believe that a person as nervous as OSwALD, whose

hands trambled could have acourately firod a rifte.

Our Mexican Station chocked its records for the period OSWALD was

in Mexico City and advised it was quite possible that OSHALD thought

he had talked with Valeriy KOSTIKOV when he actually had spoken to

YATSKOV, or that he first spoke to KOSTIKOV who turned him over to

his superior YATSKOV.

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 2 July 1964, from Richard HELMS]

According to a memorandum dated 23 May 1975, "There is

no increment of credible evidence, applying this phrase strictly,

of soviet and/or cuban political, intelligence or security service

involvement in the assassination to what was developed and consi-

dered by the Warren Commission and its staff. The Commission's find-

ing that lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of President Kennedy and

Officer TIPPIT and did them in alone and of his oun determination

stands.

"'Credible evidence' that would upset or significantly

modify this judgement did (and does) not exist in Wachington. But

such evidence could exist in Mosco andlor Havana, whose votuntary

inputs to the. Warren Commission were minimal in quatity and quality,

---

## Page 28

13-00000

- 3

designed to cover up any admissions of knowledge of, or connection

with, OSWALD which might be related directly or indirectly with the

assassination. Therefore, the belief that there was Soviet and/or

Cuban (KGB and/or DGI) connection with OSWALD will persist and grow

until there has been a full disclosure by these governments of all

elements of OSwALd's handling and stay in the Soviet. Union and his

contacts in Mexico City. The Warren Commission report should have

left a wider window' for this contingency. That, indeed, was the

opinion at the working level, particularly in the counterintelligence

component in the CIA in 2960. As was indicated by Ma HELMS in his

tootimony bofore the Warren Commission, CIA would continue to regard.

this aspoot of the OSWALD case as still. open. (Investigation of the

Assassination. of President John F. Kennedy. Headrings Before the

President's Corrission on the Assassination of President Kennedy

(Washington, 1964) → Vol. V., pp. 120-129. See especially P. 124 -

"Mr. HELMS: "Yes. I would assume the case could never be closed.'"

[Memorandum for DC/OBS, dated 23 May 1975 from Raymond G. Rocca;

Subject: Review of Selected Items in the Lee Harvey OSWALD file Re-

garding Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the John F.

KENNEDY Assassination.]

---

## Page 29

13-00000

"Shotrly after this meeting with AMLASH, CASTRO

issued a public warning reported prominently in

the U.S. press about United States' meeting with

terrorists who wished to eliminate Cuban leaders,

He threatened that Cuba would answer in kind."

On Saturday evening, 7 September 1963, Fidel CASTRO ap-

peared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in Havana; even more un-

usual, CASTRO submitted to an informal interview by the Associated

Press correspondent, Daniel HARKER..

HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday, 8 Septem-

ber, and was in print throughout the country on Monday, 9 Septem-

ber. There can be no guestion from the facts surrounding the

CASTRO appearance, which had not been expected, and his agreement

to the intexvien, that this event represented a more than ordinary

attempt to get a message on the record in the United States.

CASTRO's statements to HARKER covered a range of topics

but dealt principally with American political leadership, ii parti

cular President KENNEDY, whom he excoriated in extraordinarily pro-

vocative fashion.

The interview also contained an uncomplimentary reference

to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing the limited nuclear

test ban.. There were differences in the replay by United States

newspapers like the New York Times and Washington papers, with a

result that CATSRO's "message" was significantly modulated.

=

In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided until the

middle of September 1963, the HARKER story appeared in the principal

morning paper, the Times-Picayune, on Monday, 9 September, page I.

under a three-column headline: "CASTRO Blasts Raids on Cuba. Says

Leaders Imperiled by Aid to Rebels". The story followed under the

HARKER by-line:

"Havana (AP) - Prime Minister Fidel CASTRO

said Saturday night: 'U:S. leaders would be in

dangor if they helped in any attempt to do away

with leaders of Cuba'.

"Bitterly denouncing what he called recent

U.S. prompted raids on Cuban territory, Castro

said. We are preapred to fight them and answer

in kind. U.S. leaders should think that if they

are aiding terrorist plans to eliminate Cuban

---

## Page 30

13-00000

-2-

leaders. they themselves: will not be safe'

World affairs. . , seemed to be

entering a more peaceful climate a few days -

ago, but now this trend has changed with

attacks.

''IThe U.S, is always ready to negotiate

and. make promises which later it will not

This has happened to promises made

during the October crisis.

They have broken

as can be seen with new attacks.

"'But I warn this is leading to a very

dangerous situation that could lead to a worse

crisis than October's .:.

The New York Times, in its coverage on 9 September, used

a UPI wire service report which omitted any reference to the warning

and threat which gave the interview its real significance.

The

Washington Post did an abbreviated rewrite (9 September, page A 7)

which, sinilarly; omitted any roference to the main thrust of

GAStRO's remarks. The Evening Star of Washington, D. C., printed

the HARKER story nearly in its entirety in the second section of

the paper (9 September 1963, page B-4) and reworded the content of

the HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the political aspects

In particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER elements and burying

CASTRO's warning to the United States leadership in the middle of

the piece.

There is no evidence in the files on the KENNEDY assassi-

nation that this CATSRO interview was considered in following up

leads or in dealings with the Warren Commission and its staff al-

though Mexico Station specifically directed Headquarters attention

to the AP story very shortly after the Dallas killing. More impor

tant, the interview appears to have been forgotten in the contem-

porary political consideration of relations with CASTRO's Cuba.

There is no evidence in the Agency records, either, that the Warren

Connission staff itself pursued the implication of the CASTRO-in=

torview in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis: There is no

evidence in the files that anything along these lines was stated

by any other Cuban leader before the assassination.

CASTRO's warning and threat of 7 September 1963 - if

OSWALD did indeed read it in New Orleans - must be considered of

great significance in the light of the pathological evolution of

---

## Page 31

13-00000

OSWALD's passive/aggressive make-up after his attempt to kill

General WALKER early in April 1963 and his identification with Fidel

CASTRO and the Cuban Revolution which is directly traceable as far

back as his Marine Corps service in El Toro, California. CASTRO's

warning and threat, given to AP correspondent HARKER, irrespective

of whether there was any formal mandate, or even security service

contact with OSWALD by the Cubans of the Russians - was an act of

singular irresponsibility and under no cireumstances was exeusable

as retorsion for what the Cuban emigres were doing during the

summer of 1963.

---

## Page 32

13-00000

"The Committee emphasizes that this Report's

discussion of investigative deficiencies and the

failure of American intelligence agencies to in-

form the Warren Commission of certain information

does not lead to the conclusion that there was a

conspitacy to assassinate President Kennedy.

"Instead, this Report

• places particular

emphasis on the effect their Cuban operations

seemed to have on the investigation.

"The Report details these operations to illustrate

why they were relevant to the investigation.

the CIA operation involving

a high-level Cuban of-

ficial, code-named AMLASH, is described in order

to Illustrate why that operation, and its possible

ramifications, should have boon examined as part of

the assassination investigation."

(Xet, in the middle of building its argument, the Committee states

that "However, the Conmittee cautions that it has seen no evidence

that Fidel: CASTRO-or others in the Cuban government plotted PresI

dent Kenredy's assassination In retallation for U. S. operations

against Cuba.")

---

## Page 33

13-00000

"The Committee did not attempt to duplicate the

work of the Warren Commission.

It did not review

the findings and conclusions of the Warren Commi-

ssion.

It did not re-examine the physical evi-

dence which the Warren Commission had."

[V.1}

Comment:

This admission is astounding, particularly by a Senate

Committee reportedly investigating the assassination of President

John F. Kennedy. The remark is obviousty not quite correct, for

the Conmittee must have read the report for they refer to it from

time to time; however, they probably did not read the supporting

documents*

---

## Page 34

13-00000

ther

13 •

(4) Identify and describe the records with regard to this

activity.

The material relating to Lee Harvey OSWALD (internal

Agency documents, reports to and from other government agencies

and departments, correspondence with the Warren Commission, etc.)

is held in the Agency's official file on OSWALD. The official

-file. no. 201-289248 is held by the CI Staff and comprises 57

volumes, 'i.e., well over 200 separate file folders and envelopes.

In addition to the official file, there are ancillary files

covering various aspects of the investigation and later develop-

ments - FOIA requests for information, docunents (copies) cleared

for release in response to such requests, the Rockefeller Con-

mission, etc.

A machine index of the material held in the official file

reaches a total of 1829 doeuments or entries. There is some

duplication and ommissions. It is notl possible to tell from

the machine index the subject of many of the documents, particu-

larly cables, nor is it possible to ascertain the origin.of

many of the documents appearing under those entries marked

XAAZ-.

See the

attached list of files and folders reviewed te

dato

---

## Page 35

13-00000

Components of Official File on Lee Harvey OSWALD

1. Vol. 1 Part 1, undated through 31.10.63

2.

Vol. 1

Part 2, 1.11 - 25.11.63

3.

Vol. 1

TX-1855, undated

4.

Vol. 1

WX-7241, undated

5.

Vol. 1

XAAZ - 35909, undated

6. . Vol. 2

26.11.63

7. Vol. 2

TX-1891, 26.11.63

18.

Vol. 3

Part 1, 27.11 - 28.11.63

9.

Vol. 3 Part 2, 29.11 - 30.11.63

10. Vol. 3

Part 3, 1.12 - 2.12.63

11. Vol. 3 DBA-63710, 30.11.63

12. Vol. 3

DBA-63711, 2.12.63

13. Vol. 4

3.12.63

14. Vol. 5

4.12 - 7.12.63

15. Vol. 5

16.

Vol. 5

17.

Vol. 6

XAAZ-35716, б.12.63 Part 1

XAAZ-35716, 1.12.63 Part 2

8.12 - 9.12.63

18. Vol: 6

DBA- 16200, 8.12.63

19.

Vol. 7

10.12.63

20.

. Vol. 8

10.12.63

21. Vol. 8

DBB-11140, 10.12.63

22. Vol. 9

10.12.63

23.

Vol. 10 11.12 - 20.12.63

24. Vol. 10 XAAZ-27165, 20.12.63

25.

Vol. 11

20.12.63

26.

Vol. 12

20.12.63

27.

28.

Vol. 13. 20.12.63

Vol. 14

23.12.63

• 29 .

Vol. 15

23.12.63

30. Vol. 16

23.12.63

---

## Page 36

13-00000

2a 1209

-2-

31.

32.

Vol. 16

Vol. 17

33.

Vol. 17

34. Vol. 18

35.

Vol. 18

36.

Vol. 19

DBB-15706, 23.12.63

23.12 - 31.12.63

XAAZ- 35713, 31.12.63

1:1.64

DBB-11126, 1.1.64

2.1 - 6.1.64

37. Vol. 20

7.1.64

38. Vol. 21 7.1.64

39.

Vol. 22

7.1 - 22.1.64

40. Vol. 22 XAAZ-22407, 21.1.64

41.

Vol.

23 22.1.64

42. Vol. 24 23.1 - 10.2.64

43. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22409, 25.1.64

44. Vol: 24 XAAZ 22409, 25.1.64

45. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22410, 25.1.64

46. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22411, 5.2.64

47; Vol. 24 XAAZ-22412, 5.2.64

48. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22413, 8.2.64

49. Vol. 24 XAAZ-35908, 2.64

•50. Vol. 25 11.2.64

51. Vol. 26

12.2 - 24.2.64

52.

Vol. 26

XAAZ 22408, 22.1.64

53.

Vol. 27

25.2.64 - 9.3.64

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59 .

60₽

Vol. 27 XAAZ-22414, 28.2.64

Vol. 27

XAAZ-22415, 28.2.64

Vol. 27

XAAZ - 22595, 6.3.64

Vol. 28

10.3.64

Vol. 29

10.3.64

Vol. 30

Vol. 31

11.3 - 13.3.64

26.3.64

---

## Page 37

13-00000

• 3 -

61. Vol. 31 XAAZ-22450, 17.3.64

62. V01. 32 25.3 - 31.3.64

63. Vol. 32 XAAZ 22416, 26.3.643

•64. .Vol. 33 1.4 - 7.4.64

:65. Vol. 33 XAAZ-22417, 6.4.64

:66. V01. 34. 8.4 -20.4.64

:67. Vol. 35

21.4 - 30.4.64

68. Vol. 35.

XAAZ-22418, 21.4.64

; 69.

.Vol. 35 XAAZ-22419, 24.4.64

70.

Vol. 35 XAAZ-22420, 29.4.64

71.

Vol. 36

1.5 - 11.5.64

72. Vol. 36 EX-10877, 5.5.64

73. Vol. 36 XAAZ-22421, 6.5.64

74. Vol. 36 XAAZ-22422, 8.5.64

75.

Vol. 37. 12.5 - 18.5.64

76. Vol. 37 XAAZ-35714, 15.5.64

77.

Vol. 38

19.5 - 27.5.64

78.

Vol. 38

XAAZ-35610, 21.5.64

79.

Vol: 38

XAAZ - 35827,

20.5.64

80.

Vol. 38

XAAZ- 27210, 21.5.64

81.

Vol. 39

28.5.64

82.

Vol. 40

28.5.64

83.

Vol: 41

28.5.64

84.

Vol. 42 28.5.64

85.

Vol. 43 29.5 - 1.7.64

86. Vol: 43 XAAZ-22423, 3.6.64

87. Vol. 44

2.7.64

88.

Vol: 45 2.7.64

89.

Vol. 46

3.7 = 11.8.64

90.

Vol. 46 XAAZ-22425, 22.7.64

---

## Page 38

13-00000

4-

-91.- Vol. 46. XAAZ-22427, 31.7.64 -

92.. Vol. 47 - 5.8.64

93. V0l. 48-6.8 - 31.8.64

94. Vol. 48. XAAZ-22428, 7.8.64

95. Vol. 48 XAAZ-22429, 28.8.64

96.. Vol. 49_1.9 - 18.9.64

97• Vol: 49 XAAZ-22430, 9.9.64

98.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22431, 10.9.64

99• Vol: 49

XAAZ-22432, 10.9.64

100.

Vol.

49

XAAZ - 23433, -

10.9.64

101.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-224342 10.9.64

102.

Vol?

49 XAAZ-22435, 10.9.64

103. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22436, 10.9.64

104. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22437, 11.9.64

105. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22438, 11.9.64

106. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22439, 11.9.64

107. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22440, 11.9.64

108.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22441, 18.9.64

109.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22442, 18.9.64

110. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22443, 18.9.64

111. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22444, 18.9.64

j12. Vol. 50 19.9.64

113. Vol. 51 21.9. - 25.11.64

i14. Vol. 51 XAAZ-22944, 22.10.64 [Press reaction to Warren

Commission Report]

115. Voi. 52 27.11 - 31.12.64

116. Vol. 52 XAAZ-22598, 25.11.64 ["Unidentified Individual"

Incomplete]

117. Vol. 52 XAAZ-35722, 12.64 [Master List of Warren Commission

correspondence and exhibits] (Unclassified)

118. Vol. 52 XAAZ-35723, 12.64 [Warren Conmission log Book]

(Unclassified)

119. Vol. 53: 1.65 = 5.66

---

## Page 39

13-00000

-5-

120. Vol. 53- XAAZ-22448, 5.5.65 [State Department file]

121. Vol. 53. XAAZ-22449, 5.5.65 [FBI Investigation Report and

- Exhibits]

122.

Vol. 55 XAAZ-22451, 5.5.65 [Copies of FBI documents,

Items -1-40]

123.

Vol. 53 - XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 [Copies of FBI documents,

- Items 41-181]

124.

Vol. 53 XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 [Part 1 - duplicate]

125.

....Vol. 53-XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 [Part 2 - duplicate]

126.

_Vol, 53 XAAZ-22453, 5.5.65 [Copies of FBI documents,

Items 182-187]_

127. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22454, 5.5.65 [News clippings]

128• -

Vol. 53

XAAZ-22943, 23.3.65 (Part 1, News clippings]

129. -

Vol. 53

XAAZ 22943, 23.3.65 [Part 2, News clippings]

130.

Vol. 53. XAAZ-27164, 2.2-65 (DDP's file on Warren Commis-

sion]

131.

Vol. 53 SX-24316, 2.8.65 [SE Division soft file]

132.

Vol. 54

8.66 - 4.67

133.

Vol. 54 DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 1]

134.

Vol. 54 DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 2]

135.

Vol. 54 DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 3]

136.

Vol. 55 1.5.67 - 10.67

13%: Vol. 55 XAAZ-22560, 10.7.67

138.

Vol. 55 XAAZ-35715, 19.5.67

139.

Vol. 56 1.11.67 - 30.12.71

140.:

Vol.

56 TX-1942, 15.3.68

141.

Vol. 56. XAAZ-27163, 17.11.67

142.

Vol.

57

1.1.72 -

---

## Page 40

13-00000

ADDITIONAL FILES:

Title

HTLINGUAL Memoranda SIG 568

HTLINGUAL (clippings, etc.)

OSWALD, SIG 568

CI Special Project

Record of Action - Warren Commission

SIG. 950

DDP's File [Correspondence to and from

Warren Connission] (duplicate)

Rocca's files (pisanad)

NOSENKO handling

Dealings with Warren Commission

HOCH Letter

CASTRO Interview, 7 September 1963

Mexico Chrono Record

Unidentified Individual Report

Unnamed file

Rockefeller Commission; notes re-

garding Warren Commission

Mexico City Station Files

OCC files Conciprience to Roet felle

Commission)

al staff like (Rocca-Hautian).

No. of vols.

2

4.

1

1

1

1

2

1

1

6

Ф

3

Master File Released Documents (FOIA)

--1st series (released 2/3 1975)-

File-(copies) of Released Documents

(FOIA)

Second Series

Released September 1976

got i Documents

10

---

## Page 41

13-00000

(1) What Collection requirements were issued to the field with

regard to Kennedy's assassination? -

N 20023

As soon ias the name of Lee OSWALD was mentioned in connection

with the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November. CIA

file checks were begun and the Mexico City Station-was asked by

cable for more information on OSWALD."

Within a week. twenty-seven

cabled

Teports had been

sent to the White House, the Department of

State, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

CIA field stations provided bits of information during the

weok attor de brussmation. The Mexico City station reviewed cho

anseripe of to telephone taps and came up with several more

300203204224556

conversations

probably involving OSWALD, but not actually mention

ing him bylname these transcripts connected him also to the Cuban

consulate in Me

25363330228206 -

City. several Mexicans were arrested and

questioned about his activities, giving a good picture of what he

was really up to A host of fabricators, some anonymous, bombarded

overseas embassies with spurious tips on the case. All of these

4a7K962Er

leads were soon discredited, but they were still coming in.

2-0274

SPECS

REgAC OF OSWALONS detection to the Soviet Union where he

218861

had remated formost three years and his trip to Mexico chry

where he had contact with nembers of the Cuban and Soviet Cons

sulates, the possibility that OSWALD had not acted upon his own

but may have been an agent in a plot under foreign diraction could

not be dismissed without exhaustive exploitation of all avaitable

foreign assets.

As the Agency responsible for the collection of foreign coun-

terintelligence Information, It. was the Agency's responsibility

to support the Federal Bureau of Investigation In its Investigation

of the President'S assassination by,

3323

-a.

Obtaining detailed Information on every aspect of OSWALD's

activities and movements abroad;

Studying this information in light of

the Agency's know

ledge of the mission and operations of foreign intelligence

services particularly the Cuban and Soviet services, and

---

## Page 42

13-00000

Making available to the FBI and other appropriate govern

ment agencies and departments, all information obtained on.

OSWALD or pertaining to his contacts with. Cuban and Soviet

officials and organizations abroad.

Set out below are those actions taken by the Agency after

learning the sdentity of the assassin and during the weeks imed

toly following the President's death

Specific Action Taken by the Agency

on the sang day as the assassination, 22 November 1965e

Deputy Director Chos, Richard MENS, out cable bout need

to all cLA Stations shread HBLMS stated that the stragie,

of President kennedy requtres all of us to look sharp for any wi

usualintelligence. developments.

pments. Although vo have no reason to

expect anything of a particular military nature, all hands should

be on the quick alert at least for the next few days while the new

FOrS

President takes, over.

• DIR 84608)

On 22 November, the Chief of WH/55 in response to an earlier

cable from Mexico City in which the latter directed Headquarters

attention to previous trattle relating to lee Harvey OSWALD MEX

7018 (IN 66781) 23 November 19631, asked the Station to fotton

roport on Soviet Embassy activity and reaction "during those hou

142-S/240109

(DIR 81802]

On 23 Novenber, CT Staff requested the Vexico City Station I

review all audio fapes and transcripts since 27 September to locat

material possibly pertinent to OSWALD. [DIR: 84886 in reference

MEXI-6453 (IN 36017), 9 October 1963.]

On the same day, Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Station to

cable verbatin_transcripts in English of all OSWALD intercepts

and

other material relating to him.

(DIR 84914]

On 24 November, Chief, WH/3, asked the Mexico City Station's

opinion as to why OSWALD was in Mexico in September-October 1963•

[DIR. 84920]

On 25 November,

Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Station

---

## Page 43

13-00000

10

cable a summary of all the Station's information relating to silvia

DURAN (Mexican employee of the Cuban Consulate, Mexico City).

[DIR 84926]

On the same day; Chief, WH/3, asked the Mexico City Station

for any information indicating that OSWALD may have entered Mexico

at any time other than during the period 26 September to 5 October

{DIR 84938}

On 26 November 1963, Headquarters sent a priority cable ta

Brussels

London, Madrid

Ottawa,

Paris, Rome, and The Hague requesting station an

traces "on

Lee Harvey: OSWALD.

•[DIR 85133]

Om 28 November 1963, Chief,

WH/3, stressed in a cable

to the

Mexico City Station that "there should be no let down in your ef-

fort if follow all leads and investigate all facts which bear on

this case., We have by no means excluded the possibility that

other as yet anknown persons may have been involved or even that

other powers may have played a role." Chief. WH/3 added the reques

"Please continue all your coverage ef Soviet and Cuban Installa-

tions and your

with Mexicans." [DIR 85655]

On 29 November, Headquarters forwarded a book cable to

London,

and The Hague, which included

520/24

---

## Page 44

13-00000

- 11 -

a synopsis for COS background briefings. to assist in the evalua-

tion of any operational leads generated by the investigation.

DIR 85817]

A second cable was sent out on the same day

to Frankfurt

-... --

and The Hague asking for evidence of travel of Lee OSWALD and his

Russian-born wife during their return to the United States during

May and June 1962. [DIR 85973]

On 2 December, headquarters sent a priority cable to Ber-

lin, Bonn, Frankfurt, and The Hague asking for confirmatory infor

mation relating to the travel of OSWALD, his wife, and oldest

child on their return from the Soviet Union (in 1962) to the

United States.

[DIR 86077].

On 12 December 1963, Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Sta-

tion to continue to watch for Soviet and Cuban reaction to the

investigation of the President's assassination, evidence of their

complicity, and signs that they were putting out propaganda about

_ the case... Mention was made that Soviet intelligence officers in

India had letters sent to American leaders demanding a full in-

vestigation of the assassination. [DIR 88680]

---

## Page 45

13-00000

(2) What follow-up of these requirements was there during 1964?

-(3)

What! form aid the follow-up take?

The initial response to headquarters. requirements levied

on the field, after the assassination of the President, has been

treated under Question (1) above.

As this information

was

received

in Headquarters it was compared with existing information,

ifany,

synthes ized, analyzed, and then made available to the white housed

the Department of State, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Copies of these dessimentations were also forwarded to the Secret

Servic

examined all new leads sent in by the field, of

fexing guidances and. when necessary, coordinating with the appro-

X6303+27

priate United States government agency primartly the for when

139847:

the Investigatione Involved an American Citizen.

Most; if not all

leads originating in the field were persons claiming to have know-

ledge of OSWALD or his wife. Investigation revealed that the

majority Of these leads were fabricators:

he In light of the urgency of the investigation being conducted

20-2G209709

by the leT all comespondence between Agency Headquarters and s

Ford intes was in cable for. It necessary, messages could be

passed by telephone,

10725

2220A

Agency field representatives in the Mexico City Station and

the Miami Base worked closely with the lecal FBI representative

Cooper da

keepins the latter continually apprised of all information pertain-

ing to the Investigation as it became avalfable, te cho stetier.

The Mexico City Station and Miami Base were able to respond immedi

ately to requirements levied by the local FBI representative.. The

field reported to Headquarters on all information passed in

field to the FBI-or-received from the FBI representative so that

Headquarters could make a formal dissemination to the appropriate

goverment agency or department in Washington.

---

## Page 46

13-00000

-*14

(5):

What reporting was there from the field in

quarters' requirements?

response to Head

SECTION I

Responses to the cables listed under. Question (1) above are

given below under each cable.

DIR 84608, 22 November. 1963

Response: On 23 November the London Station stated that Head-

quarters! alert had been passed to the British services

and

The latter service told our London Station it was alerting

Its field StacionS. (LOND-6038 (IN 67061)]

2229072

Comment or

response was the only one whic

speeifically

made refererce to DIR 81608; barever,

the latter cable undoubtedi

sparked Headquarters components, Headquarters personnel on TDY

abroad, and field units to react immediately. Examples are to be

220N800

found in a separate section to this question.

DIR 84886, 23 November : 1963

Respanse Mexica Ciry Station sent three cables!

Da 23 Novem

ber containing the texts of seven telephone calls believed to be

relacive to OSWALD. (later It. was determined that two of the

telephone calls believed to have been made by OSWArD had been

made by some other unidentified person.) [MEXI-7023 (IN 67108) ,

MEXI-7025 (IN 67188), and MEXI 7033 (IN 67232) •1

DIR 31911, 23 November 1963

Response:: The three cables cited above may be considered as

a response to this cable.

DIR 84920, 24: November 1963

live

Response: The only/source of information on the reasons fa

270 22406

OSWALD'S triP to Mexico City was Silvia DURAN, a Mexican employee

i.c-2082G:

of the Cuban Consulate, who was detained on 23 November and ques

122-7

*toned by Mexican authoritios from 23 so 25 Novenher Me

Mexico City

Station bad already alerted Headquarters to DURAN's arrest and had

forwarded infarmation in several cables, parricularly MEXT -7046

---

## Page 47

13-00000

1•5

on 24 November 1963.

• Mexico. City responded to DIR 84920 with

MEXI-9054 on 24 November 1963. This cable contained additions

or amendments to MEXI-7046. (In addition to information obtained

from Silvia DURAN contained in her file, see also the review of

selected items in the Lee Harvey OSWALD file regarding allegations

of the cAsTRo cuban involvement in the John I. Kennedy assassina-

tion, dated 23 May 1975.)

DIR 84926, 25 November 1963.

Response:

Mexico City Station cabled all Station held infor

natIOn regarding SIlvia DURAN in MEXT-7065•

DIR 84938, 25 November 1963

DIR 85133, 26 November: 1963

On L7 November

reported. on OSWALD's presence in

15135667-207

20223202011

From 10 to 15 Detober 1959.

3399 (IN 68239)]

2 On 37 Navember

, Rome reporred an' Stacien traces!

traces-were to follow.

"[ROME -1233. (IN 68802) I

222 70

---

## Page 48

13-00000

16

15

On 27 November, Ottawa reported no traces in Station

files. [OTTA 1275 (IN 69005)]

d.

On 27 November

forwarded a negative report.

3469 (IN 69011)]

e. On 27 November, London Station reported that the "Traf-

fic Index" showed that OSWALD had arrived in Southampton on 9

October 1959; he left the following day by air for Helsinki.

[LOND 6097 (IN 69100)]

f. On 27 November, Ottawa Station sent a second cable con-

taining information on the initial reaction of the Cuban Ambassa-

dor CRUZ and his staff to the report of the assassination. - After

further information was received (by the Cubans) that OSWALD had

connections with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, there was some

apprehension concerning lossible United States reaction.

JOTTA 1277 (IN 69233)]

g. On 27 November,

there were no traces on OSWALD in Station or

Station cabled a response that

files.

4490 (IN 69290)]

h... On 28 NOvember, the Madrid Station replied that there

was no

information in Station or

files. (MADR 9789 (IN

69328)]

i.

On 29 November, the Brussels Station stated there were

no traces on OSWALD. [BRUS 8739 (IN 69852)]

j. On 29 November, the Rome Station reported no

traces

on OSWALD. (ROME 1258 (IN 70111)]

On

5 December, the Paris Station reported that Station

an

traces were negative.

[PARI 1770 (IN 74234)]

"On 10 December, the Paris Station reported that the

French press was giving sensational coverage to the possibility

that the assassination was "a many-angled plot". (PARI 1853 (IN

97148)1

BIR 85817,

29 November 1963

DIR 85973, 29 November 1963

---

## Page 49

13-00000

17- -

DIR 86077, 2 December 1963

On 4 December, the Bonn Base forwarded information regar

ding Marina OSWALD's entry into Germany at Helmstedt on 3 June 1962

She Teft Germany the same day at Bentheim. Marina OSWALD was tra-

veling on a West German visa no. 694/62, Issued by the West German

Embassy in Moscow: [BONN 5579 (IN 73338)] (Copies of the doeuments

referring to Marina OSWALD-were forwarded to Headquarters as an at

tachment to EGNT-1400, 9 December 1963.

b. On 6 December, the Munich Base cabled a negative reply.

[MUNI- 8316 CIN 75065) 1. 362

on 4 December, The Hague Station cabled Information that

M(arina) OSNALD entered the Netherlands on 3 June 1962 at the Old-

enzal border point: (HAGU-5110 (IN 73378)1

d. On December the Stutgart Base replied that the Base

trad no confirmatory information relating to OSWALD's travel. isruT

5545 (IN 76758)]

3 SECTION II

In addition to specific action taken by the Agency as given

4127002

abore, Headquarter components, Headquarters persomel on ToY, and

field units reacyed as shown below:

MES ERU

On November, Moxico City Station directed Headquarter

attention to previous traffic relating to lee Harvey OSWALD and

asked for a photograph of OSHALl in order to compare it with avail-

able photographs in the Station which might be of the assassin.

The

Station indicated that it was forwarding as soon as possible copies

of a photograph of the only visitor to the Soviet Embassy on 28 [sic

- 1] October who could (mightl by identical with OSWALD.

[MEXI-

7014 (IN 66781).]

A subsequent cable sent the same day from Mexico City indica-

ted that the Station had photographs of the same unidentified Ameri

can (referred to in the above cable) who is possibly OSWALD entering

the Cuban Embassy on 15 October. [MEXI-7019 (IN 66846)]

b.

On 22 November, t

the Agency's Station in Miami reported

---

## Page 50

13-00000

180

that OSWALD of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee had participated in

a debate in August 1963 on the New Orleans radio station, WDSU.

OSWALD was a former Marine who had gone to Moscow in 1959 where he

renounced his American citizenship. [WAVE-8049 (IN 66782)]

-C. On 23 November, the Chief, SR/CI forwarded a memorandun

to the Assistant Deputy Director, Plans, in which the latter's atten

27900718

tion was drawn to the fact that OSWALD had been in contact on_28

September 1963 with Soviet Consul Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV

2v%e8

According to current information available to SR/CI, KOSTIKOV was a

known: KGB officer and considred to be a member of the KGB's Thir

teenth Departmen of the First Chief Directorate.

According, to the

FBI Ilalson officer, the FBI had reason to belleve

that OSWALD's

visit was to get soviet support for a United States passport or visa

matter Chief, SR/CT closed by saying that he had reported OSWALD's

19 49e

connections with known member of the Thirteenth Department to the

FBI 11atson officer at 1030 hours on 23 November 1963.

quarters the-names..of three.persons-who.had. flown from Mexico to the

United States, during the first twelve days of November, who might

have been identical with Lee Harvey OSWALD.

•(MEXI -7020 (IN 66891) 1

= e:

On 24 November, the Mexico City Station reported to Head-

quarters that the United States Consulate in Nuevo Laredo had

infor-

mation that OSWALD had entered Mexico at Nuevo Laredo on 26 Septem-

ber traveling on Mexican Tourist Card no. 24085 and had left Mexico

by auto [sic] on 3 October. 1963 at Nuevo Laredo. MEXI-7040_CIN

67261)1 2

STE

t. On 24 November, the Chief, SR/CI, forwarded a memorandum

to the Assistant beauty Director, Plans, In which he quoted a cabre

sent by Chief, SR. Diviston, who was, at that time, in Frankfurt.

SH 2S38S 6596

The latter asked the question if OSWALD was not anwittingly ot

wittingly a part of a plot to murder the president in Dallas as

attempt to exacerbate further sectional strife and render the

States Government less capable of dealing with soviet inittarives

.0.210140.1118. 11-11:91.19911

---

## Page 51

13-00000

:19:

over the next year.

The Chief of SR continued_by suggesting that

if AELADLE's. (Anatoliy Mikhaylovich GOLITSYN) views 'on (Harold)

WILSON and

the information noted in paragraph lc below have any

substance (and they cannot be ignored), this suggests that we can

expect major Soviet pressures over the next several months, for

which the soviets have wade careful, lon-range preparations.

Paragraph lai

"i thin minutes of the first news, Moscow radio

Statements as heard in london attributed the assass

tion:"

to right-wing elements'. Only as the true iden

tity of the believed assassin became known did Moscow

begin to complain that United States reactionaries

Swere using OSWALD; as

a pawn."

Paragraph 1b:

20230200

Should, not the assignent of 13th Department officers

to the KGB Residency in the United Nations in New York

bo considered in a new light?"

Paragraph la:

'I discovered fron

during our

7. 222

long and exceptionally valuable discussions, that

one of Harold WILSON's principal scientific advisers

is Captain Ian MAXWELL, who has a long Soviet intelli

gence background. This may shed new light on ALADLE'S

report, 1-e:, that Harold WILSON may be a Soviet agent."

chief, SR/CI, pointed out that the SR Chief's comments come

without benefit of traces passed earlier to the ADDP

sowing that

21662

OSWALD had contact with a 13th Department representative in Mexico-

CIty: Chiet, SR/CT, ended by indicating that another recently aro

rived cable suggests that OSWALD's business with the Soviet Consul

was connected with his own visa to the USSR and Cuba and may?

therefore, have been innocent: Memorandun for ADDP,

24 November 1963 (filo no. SX-25598)]

8. On 24 Novenher, the Agency's Station-in Miami reported

information received from the local FBI representative. The latter

---

## Page 52

13-00000

had received a request from his Headquarters to ascertain the vera

city, including sources, of a statement made by DRE leader, Jose

LLANUSA Gobel, to the effect that Fidel CASTRO had threatened lives

of United States leaders in the event of United States aggression

against Cuba. LLANUSA attributed the above threats to Fidel CASTRO

who made these remarks during a reception in early September 1963

at the Brazilian Embassy in Havana. [WAVE-8133 (IN 67394) ]

Fh.. On 25 November 1963, the Mexico City Station also called

Headquarters! attention to an AP story datelined Havana, 7 September

1963-

At a reception held

at the Brazilian Embassy, CASTRO is

quoted as haveing catdie are prepared to fight them and answer.

in kind. United States leaders shouldthink [sic - consider 2] that

1 they are aiding terrorists plans to eleminate the Cuban leaders

they thenselves will not be safe." - [MEXI-7055 IN 67620)1

---

