# 104-10185-10098

## Page 1

104-10185-10098

COUNTITY

- ACT

Cuba

"calon" (nicarang

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

• DATE DISTE

NO. PAGES

ПЕРОВОЕМОН

@CI-310/00717-04

Eeptember 1964

1

RETURNTO CIAY,

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE C

-DATE ACO

1964

- Washington; D.C.

Septembar 1984.

SOURCE

PIANIAL CO CONTEN

A former Cuban Is olficer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1064

Headguartere Comments

The following report in one ol a serles containing pereonality.

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records al thie Aginey.

Il 1u requented that the addresees take no nction on nuy ol the.

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with thin ngoney.

I Bource does not know the true name of "Chino"

(nickname):, but maid he la a member of the Direccion Genera.

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DCI).

In 1050 and 1060 he was a policeman working In the Department

of Inveatigation of the Revolutionary National Police at the

15th or 16th Police Staton.

2. Source described "Chino" as being about five feet

nine Inches tall, 145 pounds, looking Indian, with a dark

complexion, black wavy halr, small eyes (pecullar to Chinese

men), & lean face, and having a thin moustache.

Headquarters Comment

1. Due to a lack of information on "China" it 1a not possible to

determine his true. Identity.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

I DeA

ARIT

SLAV

REP CINCLANT

CINCSOT

T&NG *9

Fund troubarlan

NEORMAT LON RENO BIR

MIESA FOB, NE/5/R.

I-LISAMOS

VELMADA

CV/R2A

JE

SA C

RID/AN

L/WASHI

HILNAVE

REPORT

LX-1657

NO PROJECT (AMMU

CSC1-316, 00717-91

GIALAON

Dema

WH/SA Y NE NE CI 4, RID RID1

OBSOLETE PRIYIOS ACTIONS

201-(None) 128-10214

3/р4

---

