# 104-10071-10107

## Page 1

T104-10071-101071

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN) •

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS+

MFR.

4-63

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap

and iorward to RID

2.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no: and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

e/el/so

3.

4.

5.

b.

7.

9.

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

ROOM

NO.

DATE

RECEIVED! FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

10 0 502)

ABSTRACT

INDEX

Tras

6100

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

#4542

ACTION

FILE TITLE

Fpid

F- CircaW) ATT

2 - R5

Pully Sen

3 - 6/ Araa DiS

* - Station File

Indexed:

28 Пр 78

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

200-6-387/3

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER'

Set 70724A02412

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, Far East Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRE I/RYBAT .

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

1450.

TROM

Chief of Station, Wellington

Si SECT

MECHAOS - Activities of Andrew PULLEY in New Zealand

ATRON REQUIRED - REFERENCES

References:

A.

B.

EZWA-2378

Action: FYI

Attached herewith is a report prepared by MLDUST and

passed to the Station on 8 September 1970 which deals with

the activities of Subject during his visit to New Zealand

in july of this year.

Waites i tel

Attachment:

As stated, h/w

Distribution:

3 - FE W/att h/w

7542

I CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Izwa-2412

CLASSIFICATION

SECRE T/RYBAT

DATE

8 September 1970

HOS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 3

14-00000

20/0/94

P. 311

WESER 0E DEZADE SHADES SOCIALISES 90 1.2.

P13002

peter to cornespondence restiny wite

our

1970 concerning Andrew

You nay

=.257 02

Sealand.

2.

= visit was sponsored by the eliz

8522020

incorpocated

the Victosia University

se

sose

anoodleyist

onganisati.ns were

said

woying dis

incessal

expenses.

collection

T2.3

02=92

bowards

At

one

10s01r2

nowever,

=

the expense of 2U1DY's boneward

Souzkey

to the Jaised

States.

"Societist lotion" the

publication of the socialist

Action League: Bare

PuLior's spearina itinerazy as foilows:

1? July - Nellington:

Adamess to anti-war

rally

outside

70:2 Fall

15 July - Palmerston North: Addreso as Massey

University

19 coir - madland: Address to raily in Albest

Pazl

20 Juit - Facilton: 12 2001g

eddress in readaci's

College Fall

hustland: 7.30 p.m. Auckland University -

address

"Black Netionalisn

in the U.s."

21 Juia - Christohurch : Adoness in Eorticultural

Hell

22 Ju15 - Wellington: Address in St Francis Hail on

"Black Mationalis:

tae J.S

It was encourose daab. expopt whese otherwise stated PULLEY

would

Speak 0a

Upsuage

in

the

5. 3.

2ILDE basiTed by air in Wellington on 15th July

520n mocanies whese ke had undertaken a speeding tours

airpont, PuLLar said that the lent gtate

Fairesader

Parades"

9316

Cambodion invasion bad united.

Coriock

ependen

SCTOLJ

20e1n05

Che

and

predicted

Thes

joined

Wed,

i==.

by ordinary

anonicans.

Ze

said

Fant

29

nobito

interfere with

10cal polities

in

inchodded in pera.2 above PUJID?

and other

spadiers addreased

spon sin rallies in Wellington and Aucklana;

but oa neither

- 8532

---

## Page 4

14-00000

2.

out on reiches occasion vas there any violence.

In Lact

the 26297 of about

in Kellanatos mus deacribed

prese es

one o2

the nost peaceful ard onderiy

deso-stantions sere for some time.

6.

were no follone:

Fointe mde cy PUllar during talks and Interviews

Liceaution

For 27492 7006197 9в513

as a struggle for black

bezeriaton

anconview 17th july).

(Statenents during

Tiebren

war and racie? aisorimination

aze manifestations of that countay's concupo

econosis bage.

Rue osgitalist class has attempued to

parascuate

sas ayoh of sacial inequality in order to

te mocking class divided, waile

the Vietnar war

munshes sucenpt ty that same closs to protect its:

Soozonio 1rb02057S.

However,

the latter bas

had the

salutary erfect of uniting students and workers.

4a10e22

En opposition to she was. (During acdress

110ent Pect 19: July).

12÷.

Le earpected revolution in the United states within

He would like the revolution to be without

bloodsand

our te cannot see the

"bourgeoisie" giving up

Dowes without a

spousale.

At the age

01

15 as one of a

Landay o2

aire

chilazen living in a Clevelond gheito: he

anà pedalod dauge to cegroes,

It was the assassination

in Canistdauson "aress" 22 July).

The saling class had the power to keep the blacks

ins mindaci economic level

- they were taught to

te obaen cheer but they soon learnt when they were shot

in the oscle cot to buzn

the other back, secause they had

0524. 00e.

so. the socialist Action

League in

eringoon - reponted in "Evening Post". 23 July).

Duriag his visit to wellingion

PuLley stayed with

vene canaaged by e laori

mencer of the Connunist Party of

FULLEY left Dew Zealand on 2522 July, reportedly

co concinue his speeizag tous in the Philiocines and

ipped, in Soda Tiebaen.

cached te a cuboing iaon "Socialist lotion"

smerising the sesulta de Pulars visit.

the

02 the

9202802240 U0ay 15 naturally takes

an optinistic

Ther: o2

StengeD escused by him.

However.

a probably

one sochistie assesoment of PULLEYiS inpact

"In iêw Zealana

is conde

in an anciele in the provircial paper Manawatu

•Evening Sbandara"

---

## Page 5

14-00000

3122403

Sandera" a cony of which is also

2epenis view saas

= two televicion eppearances bore

autached.

out the: news-

Called

audience.

It was probably his failure

"get acrose to his

0H:936

other

to poceive less

crerseas zadical visitors.

publicity sana sone

ine

---

