0a ‘i é

12268

TO: (Omer daiign
‘building)

“weceived

| orticer's
AINATIACS

COMMENTS (Number ' ‘each <oeumént:t6" thow {com who:
tp wham..” Drow. 8 lind across -felumn‘afier, each comment

ay re Oo

LD irey cout
(Cen ey aa

610 882 -- cepery

7 caticineeriay

stem peetpie

rT INTERNAT


PRIORITY WA crTe(Lana 6288 ST ae
SUPPORT. (STETSON) ae “2 Document Number 607-8 Ig

g
i
'
b
i

DE e6ai/ia 19/10952

P. 19 16452 ZEA

8T
“KKKKK ZEA
TVO ONE EIGHT WA i ez Z
cei ta =
Mt
easieoun (14) =e
{ur9 (8) |
SECRET TOT 1918452 % La : od

REUR WA+63368 AND ual for FOIA Review on > JUN 1978

te AINA VOELLEYS NOW ATTACHED TO DENVER’ OFFICE. ¥E WERE NOT
ABLE ‘TO REACH HER BY PHONE. SKE 19 ON MATERNITY LEAVE AND HOWE’ PHONE
DID NOT ANSWERCIT IS 777=0615, DENVER) SS ALL WE CAN TELL FRO® OUR

RECORDS, IS THAT MINA PROBABLY SAW’ THE LADIES IN “SOLVANG ONLY ONCE
CAFTER ‘THETA RETURN FROM THE USSR). “MINA WILL ‘PROBABLY REMEMBER ~
SOME THINGS NOT REFLECTED BY OUR FILE. SWEST YOU TRY’ TO PHONE HER.

BUT. WE ARE SURE HINA. DID NOT SEE THE LADIES BEFORE THE TRIP aND
‘CERTAINLY ROT €BY US) DURING THE TRIP. ° i Seta y

Qi. FILE’ CARDS INDICATE MINA DEBRIEFED ‘NISS RITA NA#AN —
MRS. MONICA FAUERSO KRAMER, BOTH OF 596 ATTAPDEG ROAD, SOLVANS
(13@ NILES NORTH OF LOS ANGELES) ON 7 MARCH 62. ‘NOTATION ON BOTH
CARDS READS, “VERY COOPERATIVE".
ON 9 MAR 62 WE SENT LA REPORT 28613 cPassPont on tskm, ALSO ON
9 MARCH, 28615 C8 MM MOVIE FILE ON LOAN 3, AND REPORT 20618 (BROCHURES

FOR RETENTION). [RE RECORD COPY | IS MAR 64

AMOS WAR Ko RFEUNT oREe CORR ON REALITIFS). DO1-DS9-UE


13-00000

R82. we LUT LA REPORT.28615 (PASSE JNLOAND, ALSE i

. s hi cal i
JDOMPREHS 28615 (2 8H MOVIE FILM ON LOAN), AND BEPORT 2R61a CHEOCHUA: :
FOR RETENTION).

‘om $3 MAR G2 REPIRT Sisal CBM*B ON RFALITIES).

HER £2 AINA WR TO PRS. FRAEEE: "RACY THaee TOR. YOUR

17, 1962.° [VILL LOOK FoRwARD YO RE

SLICES AN9 WILL ASSURE YOU THAT THEY WILL RECEIVE cOGD f4h8, T ate
RETURNING YOUR PASSPORT MEREVITH, THANKS ASATN PEP ALL TOUR KELP.”
CH 27 PAR €2 NINA RETURNED FILM TO MISS NANAN AY BATLe
ON 3A APR 62 WE SENT LA-REPORT 29005 CFOUR CARTRIDGES OF FORTY
33 MH TLIDES),
So HEASGUARTERS ROUTING SLIP INDICATE S GMP STAFF RETURNED 1ée

SLIPES RIRECT To MRS. KRAMER ON 17 ae 62 WITE LETRER STING COMPENT

“MOST OF THE SLIDES ARE OF THE USUAL TOURIST vé fe HENCE ARE

OF LITTLE VAL

-" OF THE 16% SLIDES FIVE WEEE “ance

SECRET

CFN S286 STE 2 WA 63582 HH-12546 RINA VORLLBY Ut en_e

NOT ARSYER 777-9945 DENVER SOLVAHG USSR NOT REFLECTFR

RITA NAMANK FONICA FAUERSS KRANES 596 ATTARDEG ROAD SCLVANG
7 PARCH 62 9 KAR G2 PFGIS 23615 F KM SRBIN 1S RAP FZ ONSET ARAB BF
MAR G2 17 1982 "7 MAN 62 S@ APR GO 29089 39 MP GT 1th 17 MAR 6S
: : f é rer.
Hae fp epecse Fone i lore las Juste €
& Cimtene fo phtce ian Women .
Te

BT
