# 104-10051-10182

## Page 1

1104-0051-10182

• UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

AWBrasko

SR/CI/Research

5 C 39, x-7735

TO:

(Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

2.

3:

d.

5.

6

%.

8.

10.

18.

12.

13.

14.

15.

C/SR/CI/Research

SR/O/US/al

DC/SR/CI

C/SR

C/CI

C/CI/SIG

C/CI/R&A

FORM

CI/ LI

610 SEPRENOUS

XX SECRET

"ERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONn ENTIAL

XX SECRET

EXTENSION

• DATE

OFFICER'S

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Much You her

NO.

CSCI - 3/780,612

DATE

COMMENTS (Number ecch comment to shom from whom

to whom..

Draw o line ecross column after each comment.)

HAND CARRY

CALL CORA, $-7735

90/3

20/3

MICROFIL

NOV 2 7 1967

DOC. MICRO. 2,4

20/3

Document Number

614-261

for FOIA Review on

JUN 1976

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

0: 71957

CartonS. 823

CSC1-3/80612

MED ONANDUL FOS DIrECtOR

Federal Bureas sl Investigation

1 Asceston a Fresident John T, Feedy

SUBJ;

PItOTE Of LEE H. OSURLO TAKEN BY MONICA. KRAMER.

AMER. TOURIST. IN MINSK. USSR. CA- AUG, 1SS/

I In tho care of oss vestart of lllas pestling to areas si

the IsSE ia which Loe Harry OSKALD allegally sended, a phalo

of an individeal closely resemblin; OSLALD vas uncovered.

CiT: U.SA

3. Our files lodicato 1ias Rala photograza (unearest A) coma

from a colet Lanerne, mia la List, 05S

RAMIR, Shose Midress

at the Une naoF, 9, Bon 983, 3cvna, Calloria. USA.

3. Tho photograpa apparo to have toen taton la Isonisalaay:

Floshchad® (Conteal Square), which le located la tho coater of Mias%.

Tbe sliding is the hackground has born identlled as To Falace of

Culture, Sin people are deplored lo to postagraph. The inciviasal

second from the righs, appearo to be Lie Harrey CäbAla, l should ba

noted thal the chirt thia ladividant to vonring appears to be idealical to

the abir 0Su1LD is souring is ter ybotographs froa. las group a 47

poctographo for the cilecto el 05 iNLy voico wre forsanted en this

Agency do your emmeleslies of 3 march 1966, tle nsober (3) 10s-83555,

subect: "unshal d Frosiden JobaT. FINNEDY. Copies of theas

two photograps o 03 11LE 12e lorrarded it this report as Alachnent E.

¿. Force al tho photograph iduntified one ol the females la too pictora,

possibly sas one es in led, no Cordlam (440), as latoriot guide. Secree

was accospaciod by another Americas, Lios Aila NALAN, 595 ALrde:

Folvans,

iDiothin

614-261

RESTRICTED TO CI/R+A

Biscument Number

tor: FOlA RaViS: 1 0.1

JUN 1976

CS COPY

SEINGI

20-MAR 1964

5701-289248.

03228

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

Esad, Solvag, Callferala, no 19 pornibly to tenale ascod from

tno len ln tao photograpi. None of the alhor individuals can 3a

farther conched

5, MTS, YANNER and MISS NAMAN, beta el whom are Valled

Santos citimal, sire contacied by tain Agenty en a one time lanaid,

Tallosing thods vetara free thair tous of the USCa, Tho report of

thio contes, 00-3-3,717,167, dalnd 11 sarcà 19al, susjucti

Realities/ The Farade/Interrogaiton in liars Following the Giving

Aoay ol a US Nons Magistno, in lorsardod as Attacharan 6-

6. MIS. BRAMEE, sho la decribed as "an aldor congraton*

àn tha sourco deseripios el Atachmes E, furniabed this Agency alla

160 colos transparencies taxon daring to sip. leachaent A is only

ono ol too fire tansarities e shes argalin coples vero nade sad

Inted by this Agency, All of the lêd sriginal color tradesarencies

ner retsrand to laTe. KRAMER.

7. MISD NAMAN, relariod to as *a callogo gradata * is loa

Fourco deucriçtion al Attachaent E, provided tale Agency aida one

vowed by thin Agney and sos abeequenily reieroed to biza NihiaN.

#, Thla Asancy bas had no fortan contace wits either tra.

KAAMSE O MIsa NAMiAN eabooguent te lar contact reflected in the

report fernarded to slashneat t

7. This sifies would be intereated la any partinct informader

Which Laterior of liNA. KRAMER ANd lilOs NAMAN by your aflee

wigasponsiblyprovido.along the dollontag lass:

# A mero posillos idetlication of the indiviceal ia

Attachment A Bantatively Identlied as 38%dIt.

The ect dale nod entrate of lae lint of day whea lee

masteraph (Attachment A) nos ales.

/c.. Any laformada

CS COPT

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEGMET

Any Intoranton which would aid in identitying other

ladvidal in the photograph fAtechnem At-

In The mos, address, and any other identifying dals

on Bho traveling companios sho accompanied Mrs. RAAMER

Bad Is NAMAN from Hereor to Karan» vin Minar

10, Dinemiaton al Altachaeat A and portinent ilentliyiag

Intornkion to to Freddent's Goerison on to Asstasteadion ol

Frondon Kenedy lo bolay delayed panting receipt al yoo, Durea'e

andingo to ta water

FOR TRI DEFUTY DIRECTOR FOA FLANS:

2. Eurt, Ir.

JAKES ANGLETON

ESCI - 3/730, 617

3 Enclocares as cited above 1026700. 1, 3% 5

Distribution:

Jali * 1- 100re3306

1-0/01

1 - C/CL/SIG

1 - C/CH/R&A

C/SR

1 a C/52/01

2 - 0/58/C1/A (bild cy & enaback cy)

1 • 5E/0/05/21

- 201-369,248

19 awarch 196d

1S ST

nethe sant

101-257245

---

