io4-10479-10102

‘22 Newember 1960

pi bi = da

SUBJECT: Moeting vith Manuel Pay ard “Pibae in the latter's
gpartsent (JC Wert Nts Stre+:, New Yore Gtty) 2 22
Novertec, 1v50. : i eet #

Je mate ez

lanecas inten
fess, see ech da. 4 factticel peetare,

Z. Throaghest the eatire cevversatios at Secere quite clear that
Karriel Ray anc sie eivisere must have disccesed amorgst themselves the
varies probing yiestions witch Bender had raised with Ant vidual Mapers
er varcue occ 3S) a5 a resalt of these talcs amrget thensel
eppeare te ar that the MAP is beyinning te tcce dew: sons of its
cantreveretal poaiticns: there was repeate: mference te the MG i

desire ar. to remain oe the dest cf teres uith the J.S) and
te be fully c.m: tied to the free Westy most emmatically, Ray rejected 3

any ane ae thet he and/or his group mo ght Bal

Urioc ts Influence in Cuba te the utasst.
Whether he wade retain the 3oviet/Chitce sri assis
tried to talk arcxd the subject, saying thit

give: thant ho: closed thin topte by saying 2a

siticnel edguficerce bed nev’ been fully touicered to por ty hiatal? or
hie staff apd that they wuld be given Mull thraget in tas ferthccatng
weeks. .

: 3. Be iked to dette nie poattion wis ay

's
++ are also closdly arfiliated with the HRP
that be Se working well with the Cherch a3

“with hie Woveint.- Se, 2ay, asked whether =
the » progres, wileb he said wis, quits
“arate that: had dee. given to ne. Gonna:

foraet ae whe the Satan Execs
agi woth masco ead t6 new we:


+ mesting with him would he arrenged soony we all must participete in. -

S. Bey inquired wiether or not e desieion had beer madison the
training of certain MAP aiagiv:ang. J eald thet this was s mstter for
@iecussioa on the technical level. (Comet: less this bas bees

6. Do wa Lave axploatres inside Cabe now which could be given to
the WAP people at en early date, Say ankes? “Fy enewer to this vas thet
I simply did not knov. (Comets I would eiggest that Wi/L/PM exanine
this matter end furnish pertinent instrustions--whatever they may bom

iD fo Ruy never deviated during this necting from bis previous
agreesant to coardinate military plane vith us, be caatimed to probe to
find out whether or not we would be willing to «ixply. furnioh him the
mecas with which this group could milateraily momt operations, 4 case
in polat: "We need a boat," Bey aid. It ie realized that such a beet
costs money and, later on, certain cover arrengenmte will bare to be
evieed. Could've buy the boat; could we provide it with the necessary
covery and, after this 1 done, would we then tarn the boat over to the
KGP to be used as they soo fit? Hy snswer vas that this would fall into
the category of daplicetion, which bad teen explorei fully previously
daring this meting. (See parts me and tro af this Contact Report.).

;
pois Hl
i
&
a
fi
:
i
i
i

8. Pay informed ze that he bat eent. word to Tooy Yarona and that ©
establishing a syeten under which democratic institations cm be

biished end osn be preserved, Ray renarked. - :

9. Rey told’we that he end Chibas had en eppointaant with «
San Ealpern(?) of Tine magazine in the of 22 Kovesber.

10. Could I expedite a visa £
working in Madrid for Guastelis, a Cubia firm?
[ised by the KRP in psychological warfare work.
Anto this mstter, © - Oe

vioualy.in Meet with. Jin Saith, “(Cament: : unless there are sone -
strong objections, I-xould feel that these maps could’ be made available:
GP through our military chanel. = fs suggested that ¥H/./Pt

with the MRP. However, after the Sinesio Waleh Eecantray dedacie,
enthcsiasm had cooled soxqvhat and perhaps this would not be the tine to
meke any approaches to Sari.. (Cammati I seea to recall seae previous

MUSH traffis on Sorij therefore, this itea is called to WYL/RUe
sattebtion for whatever uso they satind to make of it.) a


en vt a

ee 13. Approximately five MEP people currently stetfcatd in Bew York
* are in touch with Fideliotag in that ares, Ray said, fhe MOP people are
obtaining intelligence [rca these Castro foliowers and et the :
working cr them to induse their defection. Ray did not wnt to give the

Bemes of these pacple to me end I did not purwae the matter further at

this session.

cy
Oreah.
“s. Dieteiations : :
! : Orig = Serie
+. Lee we
27 Gh & CAai/ifors (rat vo Pa) .

> 2s afr : a

