# 104-10196-100270001

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/2/2018

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER:

104-10196-10027

RECORD SERIES:

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

80T01357A

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: HOCH, PAUL L.

TO:

TITLE: PAPER:CIA ACTIVITIES AND THE WARREN COMMISSION INVESTIGATION

DATE: 03/24/1975

PAGES:

30

SUBJECIS:

OSWALD, L H

HOCH, PAUL L.

DOCLMENT TYPE: PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS: Release

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/27/2018

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: JFK64-31: F16: 1998.05.11.18:27:57:106115 :

---

## Page 2

CIA HISTOR!**! REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL 1998.

CIA ACTIVITIES AND THE WAKREN COMMISSION INVESTIGATION

SUMMARY

There is

a need to investigate the role of the CIA and the FBI in the

investigation of

the assassination of President Kennedy, and their relation-

ships with Lee Harvey Oswald. Since several

agencies had files on Oswald which

can be checked against each other, a useful case study of CIA practices is

possible, These records should shed light on the interception of mail to Russia,

CIA concern about (and file-keeping on) domestic political activities, and other

questionable activities.

Unresolved questions about the CIA

and the assassination include CIA

coverage of Oswald and maybe an impostor in Mexico City, reports that he was

an informant, and a contact with a U.S. intelligence operative in Moscow. This

seno summarizes

the available record and suggests specific inquiries.

The CIA misled the FBI about the CIA file on Oswald, and may not have

cooperated fully with the Warren Commission (as the FBI

and the Defense Depart-

ment did

not). For example, the CIA may not have told the Commission about all

their records on Oswald's wife or his activities in Mexico. This memo specifies

documents and people who could clarify the Warren Commission's work with the CIA

and their investigation of these matters.

The CIA may have investigated the assassination more thoroughly and longer.

than the Commission. The results of the CIA investigation, and possible actions

against Warren keport critics, should be clarified

for the public.

Previously unreported evidence presented here is relevant to the reports

that- a CIA attempt to kill Fidel Castro may have backfired against Kennedy.

Oswald or an impersonator, in the conpany of anti-Castro Cubans, visited Cuban

emigree Sylvia Odio in Dallas and was said to feel that Kennedy should have been

shot. These men were apparently friends of Odio's father, who was imprisoned

in Cuba because of his role in an assassination attempt against Castro.

Even

without knowledge of this fact, the Warren Connission

staff considered the Odio

incident very important and speculated that it night have reflected a conspiracy.

The Commission's investigation was quite inadequate - for example, in not checking

out reports of an Oswald look-alike

in Dallas who was affiliated with the same

anti-Castro group as Odio's father's co-conspirators against Castro, The CIA's

role in this particular attempt against Castro, and in the dissemination of

apparently false stories that Robert Kennedy feared that an attempt against

Castro which ne had

authorized had backfired, nust be examined fully.

Copyright

1975

All rights reserved

Paul Li Hoch

1735 Highland Pl., $25

Berkeley, C3 94709

March 24, L975

---

## Page 3

CIA ACTIVITIES AND THE WARREN COMMISSION INVESTIGATION

I.

INTRODUCTION

A.

В.

Federal intelligence agencies

and

the Kennedy assassination

The utility at a study of

the records

II.

THE CIA AND LEE HARVEY OSWALD

Questions abour domestic CIA intelligence gathering

1.

2.

3..:

55=.

S..":

Government knowledge of letter sent to Oswald in Russia

CIA attention to Oswald's political activities

Corputerizad file entries for Oswald and others

The S44. Camp. Street

connection

Allegations that Oswald was a CIA informant

Unanswered questions about the CiA and the assassination

1.

2..

3.

4.

5.

Photographs of possible Oswald impostor. in Mexico City

'Intercepted conversations by or about Oswald in Nexico

Did E. Howard Hunt know of Oswald's activities before the assassination?

The handling of the story of "D"

Correlation of various agency files and

actions concerning Oswald

Possible unusual CIl interest in defectors

Possible CIA contact with Oswald through Alexis Davison

8.

9.

10.

11°

Report of Dallas agent familiar with Oswald

Alleged presence of CIA agent at Parkland Hospital

Questionable records of Oswald's security clearance

'Alleged photo of funt and Sturgis in Dallas

D.

III..

Statement by James Angleton

• Availability of documentary material

THE CIA AND THE INVESTIGATION OF THE ASSASSINATION

A. Possibility that information was withheld from the Commission

False CIA statement to the FBI on November 22, 1963

2.

Topics on which disclosure may have been limited

- (a)

(b). - Marina Oswald

Oswald's contacts with Albert Schweitzer College

(c)

The unidentified man photographed

in Mexico City

B.

3.

CIA assertions of full disclosure

Key persons in the CIA - Warren Commission investigation

The CIA's own investigation of the assassination

1.

CIA capability for an independent investigation

2.

Unknown CIA conclusions

3.

CIA activities related to critics of the Narren Report

IV.

• POSSIBLE LINK BETWEEN THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION AND CIA ANTI-CASINO ACTIVITIES

Summary of the factual basis for an inquiry.

• в.

Link between "Oswald" and a plot to hill Castro

1.

Summary of the Sylvia Odio incident

2.

Connection between Odio and an attempt to kill Castro

c.

D.

Press reports interpreting CId actions against Castro

Possible relevant knowledge outside the CIA

1.

2.

3.

4.

Hunt and assassination attempts against Castro

White House concern

The Warren Cormission

E.

Unanswered questions in this area

Posiscript:

Warren Commission staff speculation about the odio incident

Pa

2

2

2

Paul L.. lioch

Barch 24, 1975

---

## Page 4

- CIA ACTIVITIES AND THE WARREN COMAISSION INVESTIGATION

Paul L. Hoci

Narch 24, 1

I .

INTRODUCTION

A. ESDERAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES AND THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

Even before the disclosures of the last three months, there were ample

reasons for an investigation of improper activities by the CIa and the FBI in the

case of Lee Harvey Oswald, and of the exient of the cooperation between these

agencies and the Warren. Commission.

After

assassination, allegations were promptly made that Oswald had been

an informant or employee of some intelligence agency (and that therefore the

Secret Service had not been warned about him). Even though the Warren Cornission

took these reports very seriously, it failed to properly investigate either this

specific charge of the exace nature of the relationships between Oswald and the

•CIs, the FBI, and military intelligence.

The bulk of the Commission's investigation was done through various federal

azencies, notably the FBI. Thus these agencies were in large part responsible

for the coverup of much of what the Commission was supposed to be reporting for

the American people. It is clear, for example, that the FBI nisled the Warren

Cormission bout the extent of its files on Oswald, and also in other ways dis-

couraged the Commission from examining the implications of sone of the Bureau's

intelligence-gathering methods - e.g., the interception of several of Oswald's

letters to left-wing political groups. Hoover sidetracked the Connission's

investigation of the allegation that Oswald had been an FBI informant, and went

through semantic contortions to deny the fact that Jack Ruby had apparently been

a Potential Criminal Informant for the FBI.

B..

THE UTILITY OF A STUDY OF THE RECORDS

" The Oswald case provides an unusual opportunity to check the practices and

records of one intelligence agency against the files kept by other agencies. A

greai deal of information has been published by the Warren Commission, made

available in the National. Archives, or preserved there but not released. - This

includes the purportedly complete files on Oswald of the CIA, the State Department

and the Defense Department (including the Office of laval Intelligence), as well

as a

list

of the FeI leadquarters file. There is, however, evidence that those

files

are not complete, and suggestions that sensitive or improper activities,

donestic and foreign, were not fully recorded in the appropriate

files. An

analysis of the flow of records in this case could provide a "control" study

• useful in other cases. This would be particularly helpful if credible allegations

of improper CIl activities are not supported by the records nade available to

Eite investigating comittees.

---

## Page 5

, Hoch

-2-

3/24/75

The available evidence on the fBI's relationship with, and Files on,

Oswald will be analyzed in a book I am writing. This meno concentrates on the

CIa, with emphasis on specific questions relevant to domestic CIA activities,

possible CIA nondisclosure to the Warren Conmission, and possible links between

the assassination and CIA attempts to kill Fidel Castro.

Copies of available documents which are cited can be obtained from re. Where

possible, I have specified known but unavailable records which might be relevant.

I have delibarately excluded certain extrenely implausible allegations for

which the purported evidence is weak. Charges have even been made that the CIa :

or the FBI was responsible for the assassination. Despite the lack of evidence

or logical support for many of these allegations, they are, I think, a matter of

substantial public concern.. A serious attempt to answer specific questions which

have been raised seens appropriate.. I am concerned that bad evidence tends to

• drive out good evidence; the necessary rebuttal of some of

the wilder allegations

Bust

not become

an excuse for avoiding more complicuted, but nore plausible,

charges.

Consideration

should be given to the possibility of disinformation being

used by some intelligence agency

to focus. attention away from less sensational

but more serious charges. Within the past year someone has gone to the trouble

putting together and making available to some Warren Report critics a false

FBI

document relating to purported connections between

Jack. Ruby and the federal

government.

Also, statements have been made about a purported

anti-Kennedy

National Security Council meno which (if it exists at all) may well be the result

of a disinformation effort.

II.. THE CIA AND LEE HARVEY OSWALD

•A. QUESTIONS ABOUT DOMESTIC CIA INTELLIGENCE GATHERING

The first three of these questions may not be. very significant in the

assassination investigation, but they night lead to new information about the

extent of certain questionable CIA activities.

"inl..14

•1. GOVERNMENT KNOWLEDGE OF LETTER SENT TO OSWALD IN RUSSIA

Did the CIA intercept a letter and money order which Oswald's nother sent

to him shortly after he defected to Russia? If, as the record suggests, this

did happen, why do the FbI and CIA files given to the Conmission not fully

• reflect this?

The first known FBI report relating

to Oswald

starts with the statemant

that Mits. Marguerite Oswald "is reported to have purchased 'Forsign noney trans-

for so, 142,699° at the First National bunk of Fort Worth, Texes, on 1/22/60 bj

means of which she sent the sum of 525 to her son, Lee Harvey Oswald, in care of

---

## Page 6

tioch

- 3-

3/24/75

Hotel Metropole, doscow, Russia 3, The FBI told the Warren Connission that "we

decermined on January 25, 1960, that Mrs. Marguerite C. Oswald had transhitted

tice sum of $25. to Oswald

at the Netropole Hotel;" this prompted interviews of

fits. Oswald and her other son.

It seens atypical that the contemporary FBI report gives no indication of

the origin of that information; that omission may indicate a particularly

sensitive source.

The recently disclosed CIA project of "selective" interception

of mall from the U.S. to Russia and China may have been involved. The CIA has

: claimed that this progran was in operation in 1960 in only one city.

It is also quite possible that the FBI goù its information about this private

transaction from the bank.

The noney ordet was purchased

on a Friday, and the

FBI learned of it on Monday - which seems a bit fast for a mail interception.

The CIA file on Oswald given to the Conmission contains no information on

this other than the FBI report.

The relevant FBI file was not given to or listed

for the Commission.

7: The EBI should be asked specifically about their source

for this report.

..2. ... CIA ATTENTION IO OSWALD'S POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

In the summer of 1963, Oswald engaged in various legal political activitigipositi

in New Orleans on behalf of the Fair Play for Cuba Connittee. He distributed

literature on the street several times, once being arrested after getting into

a scuffle, and participated in a radio debate.

The FBI sent the CIA copies of six reports entitled "Lee Harvey Oswald" or

"Funds Transmitted to Residents of Russia," including four after his return.to

she lase in 1982 This seems proper, since as a former resident of Russia he was

of interest to the CIA. It may be more significant, in terms of the extent of

CIA attention to domestic dissent, that the FBI also sent the CIA a report

entitled "Fair Play for Cuba Comaitree - New Orleans Vivision." In fact, this

report dealt only wich Oswald and "A. J. Hidell," later deternined to be his.

8

alias.

An attempt should be made to understand the dissemination of that report

inside the Agency - that is, to see whether it was probassed not only

as a Iepori

on Oswald but as a report on a politically active group. That night lead to a

better understanding of the CIA's handling of such information on other groups.

It should be deternined if any CIA personnel (employees or informants) vere

aware of Oswald's activities in New Orleans. The Warren Report says that the

CIA "cook note of his Fair Play for Cuba Committee activities in New Orlaaas ,9

Inere is no footrote for that statement; it naj refer only to the presence of

che FBI report on the FPCC in Usuald's CIA file, but chit should be checked.

---

## Page 7

3/24/75

3.

COYPUTENIZED FILE ENTRIES FOR OSWALD AND OTHERS

the CId file, the "Cs copy" of the FOI report on the New Orleans FPCC

is stamped "Index," and handwritten notations indicate thai two of the names

pentioned were indexed in a standardized (presumably computerized) form.

was

Oswald; the other was Carlos Bringuier, an anti-Castro Cuban citizen living

in New Orleans. 10

Apparently these men were indexed to record their connections with the EPCC

and

the DRS (Revolutionary Student Directorate, possibly a CIA-supported group)

respeccively. This is in itself of no particular significance in connaction with

the assassination, but an explanation may shed some light on the CId's file-building

procedures.

THE 544 CHiP STREET CONNECTION

•The most provocative link between Oswald's activities in New Orleans and

/the CIA is his use of the address 544 Camp Street on some of his pro-Castro

literature. One office in that building had previously been occupied by one of

the two principal offices of the Cuban Revolutionary Council, a front organization

established by the CIA (reportedly through E. Howard lunt) in connection with

the Bay of Pigs invasion.

It is apparently true, as

the

Warren Report noted, 11

that the CRC had left 544 Camp Street some time

earlier, and that Oswald himself

never actually rented an office there. However, at the time of the assassination,

another office at 544 Camp was occupied by Guy Banister, a former FBI

agent wha

was still active in intelligence work, especially Cuban activities.

The Banister

connection was never pursued by the Warren Commission.

The 544 Camp connection was extensively publicized at the time of Jim

Garrison"s "investigation." Numerous reports surfaced of witnesses who could

Link Oswald with David Ferrie and others who hung around Banister's office.

Unfortunately many of these reports come fron sources who must be considered

unreliable, and sho might have had reasons of their own for exaggerating-this link.

The most promising source of hard evidence on this matter would be a close study

of the pre-assassination FBI and CIA records.

From a document not given to the Warren Commission but relcased to me under

the Freedon of Information Act, it can be firnly established that the FBI knew

before the assassination about Oswald's use of 544 Camp Street as

an address fox

the Fair Play for Cuba Connittee. This fact was not mentioned in the appropriate

contemporaneous reports, and was apparently not checked

out at the tine, even

though FBI field offices had been specifically asked ro be on the, alert for

FiCe activities, und

the FBi did check our other sinilor leads (such as the lost

Cifice bor on sore of Oswald's literature, and the alias i. J. Hidell).

---

## Page 8

3/24/75

After the assassination, the FBI hid fron the Conmission the fact that it

had known about Oswald's use of 544 Camp Street earlier, and suppressed the lins

to banister by giving his address (531 Lafayette Street) without indicating

that it was the same corner building as 544 Cang Street. Even the linited amount

of documentaty evidence which has

not been kept from the Warren Commission

and

the public strongly suggests that the FBI was keeping hands off Oswald's activities,

quite plausibly becausa the Bureau believed that he was not in fact a pro-Castro

activist but was working for Banister or for some official intelligence ageney.

5.:

ALLEGATIONS THAT OSWALD WAS A CIA INFORMANT

The Cornission heard, and was concerned about, allegations that Oswald had

been à CIA of FBI informant. 12 The Cornission's rebuttal rested largely on

affidavits provided by CIA Director John NicCone and J. Edgar Hoover. 13

However,

the members of the Connission had been told in secret session by Allen Dulles

that the CIA would generally not admit someone had been an informant of agent,

even under oath, excapt at the specific direction of the President.

This fact,

which was apparently not passed on to the Comnission's working staff, makes the

CIA'S pro forma denial totally worthless.

An attempt to resolve this matter now should include interrogation of the

appropriate lower-level CIA personnel. One should also try to specify

and

evaluate the specific situations in which Oswald might have been approached by

the CIA.. One obvious possibility was on his return from Russia. From the

existing record, he was not debriefed by the CIA, which in itself seems odd. 15

Unlike another defector who returned at about the sane time, Oswald was not

questioned by the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee.

16 (Oswald was net on

his return by a case worker for the Travelers Aid Society, Who was alsó an

official of an'anti-Bolshevik" organization with strong intelligence connections.17,

The extent of the CIA's routine coverage of people returning from Pussia is not

known, but it was extensive enough to net a photograph taken by a tourist in

Minsk which (after the assassination) was found to show Oswald. The question

is, cherefore, not just whether the ClA ever contacied Oswalu, but if not why not.

In 1962, Oswald prepared (and had typed) a manuscript about his life in

Russia which was full of the kind of details which might logically be of interest

to the CIs. The Wazren Report's brief account avoids the evidence that Oswald

did not keep all of the material which was typed for hin l& Inquiries should be

nade to see if the CIA got any of it, perhaps under circumstances which rould

not have led to it being filed under his name.

considerable publicity has been diven to allegations thut Oswald pas a cli

informant for which there is no substuntial direct cvidence. It should be

noird chät it is considerably sore likely that he had un informant relationship

---

## Page 9

?

i;

Hoch

- 6-

3/24/75

with

soneone else, notably the Eßl, but also perhaps military intelligence

non-official incelligence organization. I have studied in detail how

the FSI failed to adequately rebut

the clain

that Oswald was an informan:, and

hon the Warren Connission responded to Hoover's obvious displeasure at being

investigated by failing to press for satisfactory explanations.

For example, the

FBI omitted from their original listing of Oswald's

address book the nane

of one of

the Bureau's Special agents; the record strongly

suggesis

that the FBI lied to conceal the fact that

the relevant page of that

listing was retyped.

Also, the FBI submitted affidavits denying that Oswald

was an informant from

several agents, supposedly all of those who were in a

position to recruit him or know of his service, Some of the affidavits were

revised before being given to the Commission, allegedly with no material alter-

ation of the substance, but the originals are withheld. Also, no affidavits

were provided fren the tho New Orleans agents who had the most contact with the

Oswald case. 19

An examination of the circunstances under which these affidavits

were prepared might be productive. Another peculiar EBI explaration which

the

Connission never challenged was Hoover's statement that

the FBI interview of

Oswald when he was in custody after the assassination was not only to gather

facis or admissions about tha shooting, but was also ained at obtaining "any

information he mighe have been able to furnish of a security nature,,?o

cryotic language suggests that Oswald had been considered a patential source

2E internal security information. These examples are by no means the only or

even the strongest indications that the FBI had something in their relationship

with Oswald which they thought necessary to hide from the Warren Connission.

B.

UNANSWERED QUESTIONS ABOUT THE CIA AND THE ASSASSINATION

This section covers a number of questions about the intelligence agencies

(prinarily the CId) and the assassination which were not satisfactorily resolved

by the Warren Commission. (They are presented here in summary form. Further

details and the available docurentation, which comes largely fram the Commission's

records, can be provided by the author.) Whether of not these questions fall

within the mandate of the lockefeller and Church investigations, they do red to

be answered. There is no doubt that a new investigation of the Kennedy assass-

ination should explore these issues, anong others. The focus here is on problems

where a study of the documentary record is litely to be productive, so this nemo

goes into only a small fraction of the defects in the Connission's case against

Lee Harvey Oswuld.

---

## Page 10

rioci

-I-

3/24/75

1.

PHOTCGRAPHS OF POSSIBLE OSHALD IMPOSTOR IN NEXICO CITY

In October 1963 the CIA learned of Oswald's visit to the Russian Embassy

in Mexico City. Several photographs were obtained, presumably from a Mexican

police

surveillance camera at the Embassy, of a still-unidentified Embassy

visitor who does not physically resemble Oswald. This man was identified as

he was

Osivald in 3 CIA telegram to the FBI before the assassination. The explanation

of the nixus in identification, if that is what it was, was not released by the

Harren Commission.

„Some CIA, explanation, true or not, is presumably in the.

withheld documents at the Archives, It may also be that the unidentified man

was an associate öf Oswald, or an impostor. 21:

2.. INTERCEPTED CONVERSATIONS BY OR ABOUT OSWALD IN MEXICO:

An FBI report on Oswald in Mexico strongly suggests that the CIA inter-

cepted at least two phone calls between the Cuban and Russian Embassies in which

Oswald was discussed. During one phone call Oswald was apparently of the phone.

himselE. 22

The ClA also had detailed knowledge of Oswald's conversation wich a

guard at the Soviet Embassy, including the fact that he spoke broken Russian;

this conversation nay also have been bugged. 23

A recording of these calls would

be important evidence as to whether an impostor was making some of these contacts

on Oswald's. behalf. The CIA has declined to tell me whether any such recorded

conversations now exist, of to release any relevant records to me.

3.. DID E. HOWARD HUNI KNOW OF OSWALD'S ACTIVITIES BEFORE THE ASSASSINATION?

It has been reported that E. Howard Hunt was the CIA's acting station chief

in Mexico City during August and September 1963, which night overlap with Oswald's

visit

starting in late September.

24

Hunt has reportedly denied to the Rockefeller

Conmission that he met Oswald at that time.?. It should be determined if flunt

had any knowledge of Oswald's activities, whether of rot he met him.. This

requires an examination of contemporaneous CIA records relating to Oswald, and

an understanding of the flow of communications within the CIA station,

A number

of the internal CIA communications were turned over to the Warren Commission (and

are still withheld)26; however, they may not include all the information needed

to determine who in the CIA station had substantial contact with the Oswald case.

4. THE HANDLING OF THE STORY OF "D"

An attempt should be made to understand what role Cla personnel might have

played in building up, disseninating, and then denigrating a report that Oswald

had received money to kill Kennedy from someone at the Cuban Embassy in lexico

Cicy.?

The circunstances suggest that somenne with intelligence concections was

eager to push the idea that the Cuban government was Ucküad the Kennedy assassi

nation

---

## Page 11

Hoch

- 8-

• 3/24/75

The immediate

source of the story was Gilberto Alvarado

ugarte,

Picaraguan who said he was trying to get to Cuba on a penetration mission

FOr

the vicaraguan Secret Service. After a few days he reportedly retracted his

story, saying that he had mada it up to get the U.S. to take action against

Castro; then he withdrew this recraction. He ultimately took a lie detector

rest which showed ha was lying; he then said that the lie detector must ba

correct. This kind of retraction suggests that Alvarado had told the story as

an agent who later did noù know whose orders to follow.

At first this story was treated with considerable respeci. The CIA commun-

ications (which went to the White House as well as the FBl, the State Department,

and the Secret Service) show that the agency was taking the allegation quite

seriously. Alvarado was said to be of questionable reliability but not wholly

discredited; the CIA described him as a "very serious person who speaks with

conviction. "23

It is known thai President Johnson was concernad about a Castro ploù when

he set up the Harren Commission, and that he did not accept all the conclusions

of the Warren Report; it has been reported that he specifically believed that

the assassination was a retaliatory act by the Cuban Communists.?9

That is,

the apparent effect of the story of "D" - which nay have been intended was

to impress upon President Johnson (and thus ultimately on the Warren Commission)

the potential threat of an international incident posed by the reports that

Castro was behind the assassination, and (by extension) by any alternative.to

the lone-assassin hypothesis.

The Warren Report concluded that Alvarado was lying about having seen

Oswald, but did not explore the possible implications of a planted false story.

It Is plausible that a major conscious or subconscious motivation for a coverup

was a desire to avoid allegations of conspiracy such as this one which were

thought to be untrue but which night lead to very serious problems.

Some

observers have recognized a pattern of anti-Castro allegations arising from

intelligence-related sources, including Watergate burglar Frank

sturgis. 30

5.

CORRELATION OF VARIOUS AGENCY FILES AND ACTIONS CONCERNING OSWALD

The files of the FBI, State, and Marines on Oswald before the assassination

reflect various peculiar actions which might be explained not only by Oswald

being an agent of the agency which was acting oddly, but by a beliet that he was

working for sonzone else. Such an evaluation, of course, would probably never

be written down; it would be detectable only through resulting agency actions or

onissions.

às fut as I know, tha Warren Connission never did the required kind of

---

## Page 12

Hoch

•-9-

3/24/75

- detailed comparative

study of the intelligence agency files. Considerable

attention was given to

the nost striking anomalies in the State Department file,

notably the Department's efforts to facilitate Oswald's return from Russia, and

the ease with which he got a new passport in late 1963. Even in the case of the

State Department, however, the Commission did not get into all the major questions

about the evaluation of Oswald. For example, the Commission examined the reasons

why the Passport Office did not react to

the Gid telegram

about Oswald's visit

to the Russian Embassy, bui failed to explore the reaction of others, primarily

the Office of Security, for whom the telegram was nore relevant.

The relatively sparse CIA file does not reflect any such strikingly

peculiar actions. However, close study of the CIA file by an expect night reveal

if they did anything odd in the Oswald case.

It is quite possible, for example,

that someone in the CIA recognized that his defection and return might have been

a mission for (e.g.) military intelligence, and that the Agency therefore kept

away from his case, making no attenpi to question him about his star in Russia

6.

POSSIBLE UNUSUAL CIA INTEREST IN DEFECTORS

In 1960, the year after Oswald's nove to Russia, the CIA and the State

Department exchanged some correspondence relating to defectors in general..

The

purpose of this study, which included compiling statistics and making lists

of

Americans who had defected, is not clear.. Although this material was given

to

• the Warren Connission, apparently no explanation was asked for or provided.

There have been rumors that Otto Orepka, who worked on this project and with

Oswald's' file while he was. head of the State Department's Office of Security,

was

suspicious of the way

the Oswald case was handled. He should be given the

opportunity to present any

relevant infornation he night have.

POSSIBLE CIA CONTACI WITH OSWALD THROUGH aLEXIS DAVISON

Oswald's notebook contained the name and address of a Russian living in

Atlanta who was identified as the mother of the U.S. Embassy Doctor, Alexis

Davison. Davison had routinely examined Oswald's wife when the couple was

preparing to return to the U.S. in 1962. Davison gave no persuasive explanation

of why he gave his mother's address to the Oswalds, suggesting only an understanding

that they could look her up if they happened to be in Atlanta. Davison told the

Secret Service he did not remember the Oswalds, but later recalled the confact

quite clearly for the FbI and said he did not recall giving his nother's address

to any other people who were going back: to the ü.s. 31

In Decerber 1952, Davison was charged by the USS! vich receiving infozaation

fron the anerican spy bieg Penkousky. Evidently, in addition to his

---

## Page 13

• 7007

-10-

3/24/75

.-órsicial duties as a medical doctor and an Assistant Air ittaché, Davison was

engaged in very sensitive intelligence work. It should be determined is he

Ead any contact wich Oswald in that capucity, or reported to any intelligence

azency about him.

I NB:

3.

REPORT OS DALLAS CIA AGENE SMELTAR WITH OStALD

George leMonrenschildt, a man with mary hits of

intelligence connectións

in his own background who helped the Oswald family in ballas, testified that

before doing so he asked one of more of his friends if that would be okay.

person whom he said ke/pay/rave asked about Oswald was J. Walton Moore, )uro

he thougat was an fal agent? Moore was probably in fact with the CIA: he inter-

viewed DeMohrenschilde at length in 1957 after his trip to Yugoslavia... He did

Have an office in a governnent building and was listed as an "employee, l.S.

government;" the FBI told Delorenschildt that Moore

was not with the fal.

The Warren Connission seems not to have been interested in this

other

reports that the government had indicated that Oswald

was not soneone who had

to be avoided?" An attempt should be made to identify loore"s employer, determine

what he-knew about Oswald, and what he may have told Deilorenschild or anyone

else.

9. ALLEGED PRESENCE OF CIA AGENI AT PARKLAND HOSPITAL

Within an hour of the assassination, a CIA agent presented his

credentials

to a Secret Service agent at Parkland Hospital and said that he would

be

"available." It is not clear what he might have been expected to do.

A short

time later an unknown FBI agent had to be forcibly

restrained

fron entering

the

emergency room. 35

Apparently the Conmission did not investigate either of these

occurrences. As far as I know the CIA was not asked what action they

nay have

taken in Dallas or in washington after Kennedy was

shot of after Oswald was

arrested.

? at plaid content rep at i posting ol tere

• 10.

QUESTIONABLE RECORDS OF OSWALD'S SECURITY CLEARANCE

One of the peculiarities

in Oswald's military records which is suggestive

•of an intelligence connection has to do with his security clearance. The personnel

file which was given to the Commission by the Marine Corps reflected only

Oswald had

been given a Confidential clearance. However, persuasive testimony

indicated that Oswald (like the other men in his unit) must have been cleared at

leist for Secret infornation. When the Commission staff asked about this discrep-

ancy, the Narine Corps said, in effect, that if Oswald was doing Secret work then

he must have had secret clesrance.

The Connission apparently did not press

for

a proper

answer or otherwise resolve this problen.

---

## Page 14

Loch

-11-

3/24/75

Irregularities of this kind at least raise the possibility that Oswald

had been "sheep dipped" - that is, that he was formally discharged from tre

Ma-ines while actually continuing government employment for some sori of

intelligence work. There is firm evidence that the Uepartment

of Defense was

not telling the touch when it claimed that it had given the Warren Commission

all of its records on Oswald. His pay records, for example, were submitted

nonths after that clair. There is solid documentary evidence of other omissions.

There are also hints of further missing records: the FBI

was told soon after

the assassination that the CIC and CID files at the California base where Oswald

had served in 1959 had roching on Oswald; some of the California Marine Corps

files had bean fosvarded to washington. 31 These files might be expected to

contain the records of any investigarion fer a high-level clearance.

11. ALLEGED PHOTO OF HUNT AND STURGIS IN DALLAS

The Rockefeller Connission is repoztedly checking out and rebutting the

allegation that E. Howard Hunt and

Frank Sturgis (also known as Fiorini) appear

in the photographs of several men apparently picked up by the Dallas police

innediately after the assassination. These photographs represent an authentic

unresolved mystery, it is true; however, the men pictured have been "positively

identified" on previous occasions, as other "suspects" in the assassination.

Aside from the absence of any striking similarity in appearance, it is

inherently most unlikely that a professional intelligence operative like Hunt

(tho got a wig just to interview Dita Beard) would get himself photographed

without a

disguise at the scene of an assassination if he had anything

to do

wich it.

While such allegations should be seriously checked out, they should not be

allowed to distract attention from more plausible but less spectacular evidence

of improper CIA activities in connection with Oswald of the assassination

investigation. To allow that to happen would be to invite disinformation efforts

by the Agency and its friends.

C. STATEMENT BY JAMES ANGLETON

It is quite possible that a CIA investigation of the assassination of

President Kennedy was among the domestic activities which recently caused concern

within the Ageney. At the time of his resignation as head of the CIA's Counter-

intelligence bivision, Junes ingleton was quoted as making the following regarks

when Seynour Hersh asked about alleged CId wrongdoing and his domestic activities:

" mansion has mary toons and there were nury things going on during the period

of the Lanti-mas (11T addition)] bombings. I'm not privy to who struck joha, ,,3g

---

## Page 15

Poch

=12-.

3/24/75

Erom the context of angleton's statement, it is impossible to decide

what he may have been referzing to. "Who struck John" may be a literary

reference of cliche which is not familiar to me. It may have been a reference

to sona other John - e-ã, Mitchell, Also, il is conceivable that "ho Struck

John" was some sort of code name for a CIA study of the Kennedy assassination.

Angleton should be asked to explain that statement, and whether he is

aare of any CIA investigations of Oswald or the assassination, particularly

any which may have reached conclusions different froit the Warren Commission's.

Regardless of what Angleton. now says he meant by his comment, an intended

reference to John Kentedy seems as likely as any other explanation.

D. .

AVAILASILITY OF DOCUMENTARY MATERIAL

Warren Connission Document [CD] 692 purports to be an

exact copy of the

CIA's pre-assassination dossier on Oswald. Of the material predating Oswald's

October 1963 trip to l'exico, almost all has been released; most is information

from other agencies. A good part of the Mexico material is still withheld.

39

A number of other Conmission Documents and internal memoranda deal with

the CIA's pre- and

post-assassination investigations. Some of the withheld

cD's would be very interesting: e.B., CU 935, a Top Secret CIA memo dealing in

part with the reaction of the Cuban Intelligence Service to the

40

assassination.

Enough of the CIA material submitted to the Commission has been released to

provide a basis for the fornulation of appropriately specific questions.

Certainly nost of the still withheld material should be released at this

time. However, overemphasis on the material at the Archives should be avoided.

Erroneous claims are frequently made that many of the Warren Conmission Files

have been locked up for 75 years from the date of the assassination. In fact,

there is no such fixed-term withholding. All of the withheld material is

reviewed every five years, and in addition is subject to agency and judicial

review under the Freèdon of Information Act when a request is made by any citizer.

Some of the withneld material might even remain withheld for nore than 75 years.

In fact, an extraordinary

amount of investigative material (largely raw data in

FBI reports) has been released or published. This was done to some degree over

the objection of the FBI.

It is probable that the nost sensitive material

in government files on Oswald

nèver reached the Warren Commission. I am sure that was the case with the FBI

files, only a small fraction of which were given to the Conmission..

In response to my Freedom of Intornation Act requests, the Cli has told me

that they "are highly in

favor of declassifying everything possible in

connectio?

with the resords

of the barren Connission. The rost convincine motive for us to

---

## Page 16

rioch

-13-

3/24/75

do this is our firn belief that all the information so declassified would

mesaly go to suppori the conclusions of the Warren Connission and dispel any

possible confusion of suspicion that the continued classification may have

raised."4 (Ihis motive has been balanced against the protection of classified

infornation and intelligence sources and methods.) I expect that this is

a

sincere opinion, at least as it applies to the CIA material in

the Archives.

(The following section exanines the indications that the ClA did not make a

full disclosure to the Comnission.) Of course, even the currently available

material invalidates many of the Commission's conclusions.

Because of these facts, the demand for release of the Warren Commission's

records should be only a part of the demand for full disclosure. At the vary

least, the CIA should be asked about files other than CD 692 in which there is

any reference to Lee Harvey Oswald or to members of his family.

III. THE CIA AND THE INVESTIGATION OF THE ASSASSINATION

À.

1.

POSSIBILITY THAT INFORNATION WAS WITHHELD FROM THE COMMISSION

FALSE CIA STATEMENT TO THE FBI ON NOVENBER 22, 1963

On the day of the assassination, an FBI agent from the Washington field

office interviewed Birch D. O'Neal of the CIA for the purpose of

obtaining "any

information" in the CIA files on Oswald. According to the FBI's report, he

"learned there is nothing in CIA file. sic regarding Oswald other than material

Furnished to CIA by the FBI and the Department of State.""2 That was certainly

untrue, most conspicuously with regard to the important CIA-originated material

about Oswald's trip to Mexico..

43

The possivizity that the FBI misrecorded the CIA statement must be acknow:

ledged. The Bureau's headquarters file included some CIA-created records, so the

Bureau should have known that the CIA clain was wrong when they reported it to

the Warren Connission. Whatever O'Neal's exact statement about the CIA file was,

it seems clear that the CIA did not want to immediately reveal to the Est the

full extent of their coverage of Oswald, and the serious problems raised (e-g.

by the photographs of the visitor to the Kussia

Embassy).

The significance of this FBI report is not

imarily that material was

withheld fron the FBl, since some of it had been turned over previously and

nor

apparently was forwarded quite soon; it is that at least once the CIA made a

false statement about the extent of their Oswald file.

2.

(3)

TOPICS ON WHICH DISCLOSURE PLY HAVE BEEN LIMITED

Marin: Osta 1

The FOl told

•tha warren Conmission thät their case on lee larvey Oswald sas

---

## Page 17

Fioch

-14-

3/24/75

returned to active status in March 1963 as a result of infornation obtained

cuting an investigation relating to his wife Marina. FBI agent Hosty

testified

that it was the FBI's practice to interview inmigrants fron Communisi countries

"or a selective basis," and that Marina Oswald had been selected.

44

results of this FBI practice would seem naturally and properly to be of interest

to the CIA.

However, the CIA file on Lee Oswald does not give any indication of

CIA interest in Matina specifically. There is no apparent reference to any effort

by or with the FBI relating

to Russian innigrants. (The routine transmittal

• slips for the FBI reports on Lee Oswald do not refer to the EBI's case on Marina.)

The CIA should ba asked to produce any records it has on Marina Oswald.

The Agency should be asked if they ever contacted her as a potential informant

o otherwise, directly of indirectly. She may well have been known to the CIA

through Russians in barlas, some of whon had links to CIA-supported groups and

night well have been reporting to the CIA on the activities of the Russian

cortunity.

V

(b) Oswald's contacts with Albert Schweitzer College

When Oswald left the U.S. in 1959, he had indicated on his passport appli-

catzon that he intended to attend Albert Schweitzer College. This is a small

Unitarian-affiliated school in Switzerland specializing in advanced studies in

philosophy and the liberal arts.

45

Oswald had indeed been accepted by that school,

despite the apparent absence of the proper references and background.

When he

failed to show up, an investigation was undertaken by the FBI through its Lega

attache in Paris, perhaps in part at the request of Oswald's mother througi her

Congressman.

Since the relevant FBI records have not been made

available, I

do not know whether any of them were sent to the CIA, but that would have been

appropriate. It should be determined if there was any FBI-CIA liaison on this

matter (and if not, why not); and, if so, why. there is no record of it in the

CIA file on Oswald, CD 692.

The CIA, the FBI, and ONI should also be asked if there was any intelligence

interest in Schweitzer College, or any direci or indirect government suppost.

That nighi explain Oswald's peculiar contacts with the College. If the CIA

evaluated this maiter in docunents provided to the Warren Connission, they should

be made public.

(c) The unidentified man photographed in Mexico City

(See section II.B. l supra.) I am confident that the CIA ultimately did

pIovide an explanation of this "mistake" which was enod enough to satisfy the

Warren Connission. However, thare are strong indications that the Cli was rot

candid with the Coission at first. The Comission first learned about the

---

## Page 18

-::Ui::

photo because it had been shown to Marguerite Oswald shorlly after the assass-

¿naston. Horever, as late as March 12 the Connission Was asking

the CIA about

Os:alá's activities in Nexico and about the photograph apparently without knowing

that these matters were related.

47

The Cld had apparently not yet replied to

a latter which had been sent a month previously asking for an explanation of the

photoggaph.

3. CIA ASSERTIONS OF FULL DISCLOSURE.

CIA Director Nichone and Deputy Director Helas testified that the substance

oF all relevant pre-assassination information had been supplied to the Connission.

48

CD 692 was described

in a covering nero as "an exact reproduction of the Agency's

oEficial dossier on Lee Harvey Oswald," but it included only a summary of sore of

the pre-assassination internal CIA messages about Oswald. 49

A Connission staff

renber went to Langley and saw a computerized printout on Oswald, which he

described as including no document which the Commission had not been given in full

on in paraphrase.

The CIA should be asked to list (and, if possible, to release) all records

not in the "official dossier" which mentioned Oswald. Specifically, since some

records had Oswald's middle name as

"Henry,"

the extent of their search involving

variant names

should be examined.

B.

KEY PERSONS IN THE CIA - WARKEN COMFISSION INVESTIGATION

Raymond Rocca, who recently resigned from the Counterintelligence Division,

• was the CIA's liaison with the Warren Commission. Arthur Dooley, who retired in

1973, was apparently one of the CIA men most involved in the investigation.

According to a Comnission nemo, Kichard Helms

was one of the two men at a

meeting on March 12, 1954 who would have known it Oswald had been a CIA informant. 51

the name of the second man has been withheld. He should be identified and both

should be questioned.

It might be particularly useful to ask the following people from the Warren

Commission staff about the issues raised in this nemo, and about the degree of

CIA cooperation with the Connission.

W. David Slawson, now at the U.S.C. Law School, was the junior lawyer who

apparcntly had the most extensive dealings with the CIA. His area of investi-

Bation was Oswald's foreign activities. The. New York lines has reported that he

recently said that the investigation should be reopened.

.r. William I. Coleman, no: Secretary of Transportation, was the senior lawyer

in the same area.

Wesley J. Liebeler, now with the jederal governient in washington, was

reportedly involved in tie investigation of the unidentified ana photo, ond as

---

## Page 19

foch

-16-

3/24/75

-aportedly unable to zet a satisfactory explanation from the CIA for thei=

aisidensification ge the man as Oshald.

Samuel d. Stern, now with Wilmer Cutler and Pickering in lashington,

examined the CIs evaluation of Oswald, particularly fron the viespoint of

liaison with the Secret Service and procedures for Presidential protection.

tie was

also involved with investigating the allegations that Oswald was an

FBI or CIA infornant.

C. . THE CIA'S OWN INVESTIGAIION OF THE ASSASSINATION

CIA CAPABILITY FOR AN INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION

The CIA, Of course, openly worked with the Warten Commission in areas

involving foreign activities. In addition, the Agency was given

the ability to

assess much of the evidence in other areas. At the Cornission's request, the

ESI sent the CIA not only material with foreign aspects, but also reports

possible subversive activities by Oswald in the U.S.; the FBI also forwarded to

the CIA all the major investigative reports coming out of the Dallas office.

54

The Secret Service was also asked to send the CIA a nuaber of its reports,

including all intervieus of darina Oswald. 55

On occasion during the life or the Comnission,

Is confin by unitar?

the CIA actively suggested

/further investigation. For example, one Agency mero said it was of considerable

mportance to investigate the report that Oswald had attempted suicide in Pussia

nd that if necessary his body should be exhumed. to see if he really did have a

scar on his wrist.

56

The Warren Connission; constrained by (among other things) the need to make

a public report within a reasonable time, did not even adequately pursue all

the important leads in the material the FBI did submit. The CIA was not' so

constrained:

•2.

UNKNOWN CIA CONCLUSIONS

The CIA interest in the assassination continued after the Warren Commission

Finished its work. For example, more than two months after the latten Report

came out, the GId asked for a copy. of the Zapruder film of the shooting. accord-

ing to the FBI, it was requested "for training purposes „57 Presumably this with

means for training photoanalysts.

The FBI - Cornission study of this film was superficial.

Most notably, the

Warren Report failed to mention, nuch less explain, the fact that kennedy vas

driven forcafully backwards by the

Fatal shot (which, according to the Cornission,

came Fzon behind hia). Contrary to exportations, a target does sometines recoil

back toards the pun 3 it woulu be interesting to linow if the CId came wa vica

this explanation. In any case, the agency siouid reveal what use it nade of, and

---

## Page 20

Hoch

our guiline;

3/2÷175

coxclusions it

reachad from,

Ahe Zapruder Film.59

gency otiscials

testifyed in May 1954 that they had found no evidence causing

chen to conclude thas thexe

had been a conspiracy, but that the case would never

be considered, closed.

The CIA should be asked to produce their internal reports

on the assassination, particularly any which reached conclusions or postdated

the Warren Repoti.

3. CIA ACTIVITIES PELATED TO CRITICS OF THE WARREN PEPORT

It would be perfectly proper if the CIA has inv

saigared charges made by the

critics alleging foreign involvement in the assassination. Such investigative

leports should be nade public.

CIA coverage of the critics may have included the dissemination of false

reports to. draw attention away from serious questions which involved the Agency:

Other researchers who have been more active in the investigation than me could

no doubt provide details about some of the suspicious

incidents and persons.

Jim Garrison charged

that the CIA was involved

n the

assassination and

also

hindered his investigation. Since the former charge

Thas received wide attention,

despite Garrison's lack of

substantiating evidence,

the CIA should be asked to

explain its links with any of the principals in the Gatrison natter. This should

include suspects, peripheral figures associated with them, investigators, and

some of the witnesses and their attorneys; CIA connections with David Ferrie and

Guy Banister should be given special attention. 61 If it is true, as Victoz

Marchetti has reportedly

said, that Clay Shaw had been a CIA contact in connection

with his foreign trade activities and the CIA was concerned about keepina this

faci secrat, that might explain some of the strong opposition to Garrison (although

it would not add to Garrison's flinsy case that Shaw conspired to kill Kennedy).

The

extent of CIA efforts to disseminate derogatory information about the

be examined. The Agency did give the Warren Conmission a 1937

Gestapo nemo on Joachim Joesten, the author of one of the first critical books

on the assassination.

62 Information that Joesten had been a marber of the Germanl

"Cormunisi Party,

aken from the same memo, was later introduced into

the Congress-

ional Record in

report (allegedly written by the CIA) which claimed that his

criticisn of the larren leport was part of a "Connunist bloc defamation carpaign. "63

The Agency should

also be asked if it intercepted the mail of, or otherwise

interfered with

any of the critics of the Warren Report, in the United States

or'

abroad.

The wis

w

witem

this,

---

## Page 21

Hoch

-18-

3/24/75

IF.

..

POSSIBLE LINK DETOSEN THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION AND CIA ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

SUMMARY OF THE FACTUAL BASIS FOR AN INQUIRY

The considerable aitention recently given to the possibility of a connection

between the CIA and

the Kennedy assassination has been largely

based

on two

very provocative and undoubzedly significant facts. The first is that the Cla

tried

to kill Fidel Castro, working on occasion through the Mafia. This Cla

plot was reportedly the basis for fears that Castro had retaliated against

Kennedy. The second is one of the major untesolved questions of Watergate: E.

Howard Hunt's apparently sensational knowledge about "the whole Bay of Pigs

?

thing" which led President Nixon to cut off the investigation, Since the basic

facts of the Bay of Pigs are hardly secret, and Hunt has admitted proposing

the assassination of Castro in connection with that operation, it is reasonable

to speculate that "the whole Bay of Pigs thing" was a reference to knowledge

of such a plot of its consequences, or to the related Howard Hughes - CIA Link.

These matters undoubtedly should be given major attention by those who are

now investigating the CIA. I would like to suggest that they should be studied

with the perspective provided by a third fact: a definite link between

a man

representing himself as "Leon Oswald" (perhaps Lee Harvey Oswald himself) and

pre of the assassination attempts against Castro.

B.

1.

LINK BETWEEN "OSWALD" AND A PLOT TO KILL CASTRO

SUMMARY OF THE SYLVIA ODIO INCIDENT

episode which caused the Warren Commission staff a great deal of concern

was reported by Sylvia Odio, a Cuban active in the anti-Castro movement. She

identified Lee Harvey Oswald as one of three men 'who had visited her home in

Dallas about two months before the assassination. Odio said that this man was

introduced to her as"Leon Oswald" and was described as an American ex-Marine

- "great, kind of nuts" - who thought that President Kennedy should have been

shot after the bay of Pigs "because. he was the one who was holding the freedon

of Cuba. "64

The men themselves linked attempüs against Kennedy and Castio,

saying that Leon Oswald "could do anything like getting underground in Cuba,

like killing Castro, "6S these nen said they vere seeking Odio's help in their

anti-Castro activities and persuasively claimed to be friends of her father,

who was imprisoned in Cuba. Odio's veracity was strengthened by the way her

story came out, and by the fact that it tied Oswald to a movement with which

she sympathized (specifically the relatively coderate JURE group, headed by

Manolo Kay) 65

This incident is important whether or not the real Oswald was. involved.

an attempt to iepersonate Rs:

ald in such i situation would establish a coaspirasy

---

## Page 22

this wister stag

stricth awn

-Ly-

3/24/75

.. not only against Kennedy but against Oswald.67 The Commission staff recognized

• =re significance of Odio's story. David Slawson called her

ne most signif-

ican: witness linking Oswald to anti-tastro Cubans. "68

Assistant Counsel Burt

Criftin said that "the most reasonable situations under which oswald night

have had conspirators

....derive, from his efforts to infilurat/the anti-Castro

Cubans and to obtain a visa to Cuba"; 'he said that the Warren Report "should

explore at length tha

allegations made by sylvia Odio. "69

Just

ten days before

the Warren Report came out, Wesley Liebeler wrote that "odio may well be right"

and that "the Commission will. look bad if it turns out

she is. "70.

The Commission's investigation never really. got beyond

a search (reasonably

successful) for evidence that Oswald himself was not one of Odio's visitors:

At the last minute, three anti-Castro activists, were tentatively identified

the visitors, but later interviews seen to have invalidated that hypothesis.

Z: CONNECTION BETWEEN ODIO AND AN AITENPT TO KILL CASTRO

sylvia Odio's fathez, with whom her visitors claimed to ba well acquainted,

was generally described as a "political prisoner."72 The fact is that te was

arrested by the Cuban government because of his involvement in an attent to

5EL1 Castro. The senior odios had harbored one of the assassins after this

attempt on Castro failed.:

These facts are established by a combination of investigative reports

subnitted to the liarren Connission and press reports which appeared before the

Kennedy assassination.

I am not mentioning the name of the man arrested with

I. Odio in this

memo, because I think an investigation should be conducted

before this material is made public. (I do not know anything other than what

• is in public sources.

73,

Because this assassination attempt occured reasonably close in time to the

Bay of Pigs, it is reasonable to suspect that be CIA was directly involved in

it. In any case, the CIA must have learned the details of the plot, if only

after it happened. IT is clearly important that Agency records and witresses

be probed to. learn as much as possible about this link between the Kennedy

assassination and an action of the kind the ClA was nounting against Castro.

C.

PRESS REPONIS INTERPRETING CIA ACTIONS AGAINST CASTRO

Alleged CIA attempts to kill

foreign leaders, notably Castro, have received

a great deal of attention latoly.14 The latest

reports make explicit what was

strongly suggested earlier: that the publication of the Stories about possible

retaliation by Castro was

in itself an act with political significance and

consequences. Given the infornation in the previous section, it is importunt

---

## Page 23

Next!

Hoen

- 20-

3/24/75

to exanine these Iepotts while keeping in nind the

possibility that the Cla

had an interest in diverting attention from this patticular link between is

activities and the kennedy case.

Jack Anderson reported in 1967 that "President

Johnson is sitting on a

political H-bond - an unconfirmed report that Senatot Robert Kennedy may have

approved an assassination plot which then possibly backfired against his lete

brocher. "75

Anderson said that a plot against Castro Was considered while

Robert. Kennedy was "riding herd on the Agency" after the Bay of Pips.

"Insiders."

told inderson that for the plot to "reach the high level it did,"' it must have

Dean taken up with Kennedy; one source "insisted" that Robert Kennedy played a ..

Key role in the planning. Anderson also cited John Kennedy's disillusionment

with the CIA, and a report that Castro "with characteristic fury" launched a

counterpiot; he said that the FilI old President Johnson that Cuban Leaders had

hoped for Kennedy's death.? Anderson suggested that Robert Kennedy's "moroser

benavior after the assassination might have been due to the "terrible thought

that he had helped put into motion forces that indirectly may have brought about

his brother's martyrdom.""

In 1971, Anderson expanded his story, reporting that there were six CIA

attempts to kili Castro, occuring between March 1961 and March 1963

All six

were reportedly carried out through John Roselli, a man with strong links.to

organized crime.

These colunns repeated the suggestion that the plots might

78

have backfired against Kennedy when Castro learned of them.

The Anderson colums did not go into the possibility - rather, the proba-

bilizy - that there were other CIA attempts against Castro.".

Nor did they

raise the possibility that a plot had backfired when the Kennedys or the CIA

tried to call it off, and the resentful gunnen. turned against the United States.

There is at least as much political logic to this hypothesis as to the alternate

version. It is krown that sone anti-Castro Cubans resented President Kennedy's

lack of support in 1962-63, typified by the well publicired raid on an anti-Castro

training camp near dew Orleans in lugust 196380

and by the reported withdrawal

of support for a second invusion around the time of the Missile Crisis.

81

If.

Castro had decided to reraliate against kennedy, jc is most unlikely that he

would have used Ostald, whose pro-Castro activities were a matter of record in

CIA and FBI files, and known to the public (because of his radio appearances) and

to the anti-Castro Cuban cormunity. Surely the Cubun government had agents in

the U.S. with solid anti-castro covers.

It is reasonable to assure that the orizinal andurson report was, based on

information givengto him ty the Cla f This conclusion is supported not only by

?!

---

## Page 24

• Hoen

- 21-

3/24/75

his citations of "tog

officials" as sources, but by infornation provided to

he by la

roderately relaure source) suggesting that anderson thought the story.

nad been given co him with the approval of the Director of the CId. Whoever

the source, I can only. speculate about his intentions. There may have. been

a desire to atfect the strained relationship between President Johnson and

Pobert Kennedy, or. there may have been reasons related to Kennedy's continuing

passive endorsenent of the Warren Peport in the face of strong public concern

about the assassination. Even if the only true part of the 1967 report was that

Sire elements in the U.S. Government had planned to kill Castro, it may have

been leaked for the purpose of persuading Robert kennedy to continue his silence

asout his brother's death.. It should be noted. that the CIA has apparently

put chosen to leak information about the anti-Castro assassination attende which

is linked to the odie incident

• It has just recently. been revealed that Robert Kennedy was "outraged by

the 1967 Anderson column.

He told two of his assistants that he had stopped,

not started, the plot against Castro.

82 (It appears that he was referring to

an attempt using the Malia, presumably Roselli.) One news report indicated that

one of the

Kennedy aides had emphasized that Robert Kennedy learned of the

CIA-Matia link before his brother became President, thus implying that Castro

could not have

retaliated against the Kennedys because of it. 33

Obviously the

extent and chronology of all ClA attempts against Castro must be cleared up.

D. POSSIBLE RELEVANT KNOWLEDGE OUTSIDE THE CIA

1.

BASIS FOR E. -HOWARD HUNT'S BLACKMAIL OF PRESIDENT MIXON

As many observers have noticed, President Nixon's reactions to Hunt's

demands for money seem to be based on a fear that he would

divulge information

on sonething even more damaging than. Watergate.. On June 23, 1972, Nixon told

Haldeman to have the Cld cut off the FBI investigation on the grounds that it

might open up "the whole Bay of Pigs thing." That was presumaoly related

to the long-tine CIA links of Hunt and some of the men on his team.

Of course, many details of the CIA's involvament in the Bay of Pigs have

been known for years. Whether or not Nixon's fear in that area was geruine,

he must have had some reason to believe that the CIA and the Fl

would have

some idea of what he was feferrina.to. It is quite plausible that "the whole

Bay of Pigs thing" was a euphemisn for CIA assassivation atterpes against

.?.

Castro which had grown out of the bay of Pigs operation. It seens essential

in Find out what all of the involved parties - mion, laidenan, llelas, and the

FBI - thought (or nor think) this meant.

---

## Page 25

Besi

- 22-

3/24/75

2.

HUST AND ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS AGAINST CASTRO

Funt chose to being up the matter of assassination attempts against

Castro in his boois.

He said that he had proposed such

an attempt in connection

with his work on the bay of Pigs. He recommended, evidently in writing, that

• Castro be killed before or at the time of the invasion. Hunt was told that.his

reconmendation was "in the hands of a special group." Perhaps choosing his :

words to conceal or hint. at what he knew, rather than to reveal it, he wrote:

"So far as I have been able to decermine no coherent plan was ever develoged

•wichia CIA to assassinate Castro, though it was the heart's desire of many

exile groups. "84

3. WHITE HOUSE CONCERN

In the process of unraveling the stories about the CIA atteipts against

: Castro, it might be h-lpful to explain the White llouse reaction to the 1971

anderson columns. In the Senate Watergate Comnittee hearings, where this was

touched on, there is some indication that these columns touched off a ninor

Flugry of activity. 85 since the purposa of the watergate break-in has never

been publicly clarified, and there has been much speculation that Larry O'Brien

knowledge of Howard Hughes' activities was somehow involved, it may be relevant

that Anderson did specify that the CIA had recruited Roselli through Robezt

86

Haheu, a top Hughes aide.

4. THE WARREN CONMISSION

The CIA apparently never volunteered to the Warren Commission any infor-

nation about the Odio family link to an assassination attempt against Castro.

That link should have been established the first time the CIA ran the name of

Sylvia Odio through their files. If the lini was not noticed within the

government earlier, it may be relevant that

shortly after the 1971 Anderson

columns appeared I sent him the details in my possession, in the hope that he

would pursue the natcer; he eventually decided not to, but he may well have

checked

out some of the details with his CIA contacts.

It is reasonable to assume that by now the ClA has done an internal

investigation of possible Agency links to the Odio visitors.

Any such report,

whether or not it was given to the Warren Commission, should be nade public.

E. UMANSWERED QUESTIONS IN THIS AREA

?.

As indicated above, there are many aspecis of the CIA's actions against

Casten which should ba exanined. One of the many possible sources is victor

intchetti, whose tons contains a footno: coinenting on these CIA activities,

and noting a published report that fresident johnson thougit that lennedy had

---

## Page 26

-23-

Витинни

tway

3/24/75

been killed in retaliation. The related section of the text was deleted by

87-

the cIs before publication; it should be made public now.

Various sources should be asked about the indications that the CIA leaked

infornation about the Roselli plots to Jack Anderson. The observations of

Robert kennedy's aides Peter Edelman and Adam Walinsky should be nade part of

the fornal public record.

.. -

Thare are many aspects of the Odio matter which should be investigated.

Many people named in relevant documents were not thoroughly questionad

by the

FBI ar

the warren Connission. First, the activities of the three men who the

Warren Report subgasted sere odio's visitors should be closely examined; they l

should be asked to provide any relevant information.

One of these men, Loran Hall, came to the attention of the FUI on the day

after the assassination, when it was reported that he had retrieved a pawned

Title; presumably the FBI's source suspected Hall of complicity in the death

of jennedy. It is not clear why the FBI then dropped the matter quickly and

reposted it to the Warren Commission inadequately and only after a long delay.

A friend of Sylvia odio insisted that she had toid her that anti-Castro

Cubans in New Orleans had warned some Dallas Cubans before the assassination

that Oswald was thought to be a double agent trying to infiltrate anti-Castro

groups; odio emphatically denied having said this.

Some of the New Orleans

Cubans who had encountered Oswald, including Odio's uncle, were associated

with the CId-sponsored Cuban kevolutionary Council.

The most important new topic for investigation is the attempt to kill

Castro which fed to the arrest of Sylvia Odio's father® The degree of CIA

• sponsorship or knowledge of it must be determined.

The whole story of links betweed Cuban activities (pro- and anti-Castro),

•Oswald, and the assassination is a complicated one. The nost significant

evidence might emerge from some of the clues which were too complex to attract

the attention of the Warren Conmission. The Odio incident and its ramifications

(some of which were not known to

Commission) can properly be explored

without a fornal recognition of

the

overall inadequacies of the Commission's

rork. Hopefully some members of

the Commission staff will be willing to admit

that their work was at least incomplete, and will endorse a reopening of the

entire investigation.

Particularly relevant here

re two examples of leads which vere not obvious

but which should have been checked out by the Commission (and should be checked

out now). The first siony involves a lavyer fron the firm which in nid-1963

defended Chicaão syndicuse

figure

San Giancand egainst FbI harassment. (Giancana

distend it, -liat

for

Did tire

---

## Page 27

--24-

3/24/75

nas been naned as a Mafia leader who may have aided the CIA in spying against

Castro.39, On the day after the assassination, this lawyer sent a telegran

=o Oswald, offering his services if Oswald had not been able to obtain counsel.

I an convinced that this gesture was made on proper civil-libertarian grounds,

in response to the apparent violation of Oswald's rights in the absence of an

attorney. The law fion involved had a good reputation for civil rights fork.

This lawyer should be given the chance to answer for the record any suspicions

that right be raised by his firm's prior representation of Giancana.

The second story might turn out to be a new and valuable clue to the

incity, purposes, and organizational links of the men

men who visited Sylvia

0-10. There was an anti-Castro Cuban in Dallas who apparently resembled Oswald

so such that a gas station operator who saw him a

few days before the assass-

ination later told the FBI that he thought he had seen Oswald.

The FBI was

Iold by an informant that this man was "violently" anti-Kennedy; he denied that.

He was the presideat

of the Dallas branch of the anti-Castro organization which

sas headed by one of the principals in the attempt on Castro's life which had

Ted to the arrest of Odio's parents. The Dallas group.

held meetings at

3126

Hollandale [Street]; the Warren Conmission received but did

not resolve

allegation reported to a Dallas Deputy Sheriif that Oswald had attended meetings

of a Cuban group at "3129 Harlendale. "90 This man

is named in several Warren

Connission records, but as far as I know the staff never took note, of

the

apparent resemblance to Oswald, and never checked out the possibility thai he

had been the "Leon Oswald" who visited Sylvia Odio or that he had otherwise

been involved in a conspiracy.

Sa. The Fesi i he

petalli

exclusion of anyt

---

## Page 28

Soch

• -25-

POSTSCRIPT: VARREN CONHISSION STAFF SPECULATION ABOUT THE ODIO INCIDENT

itter this meno was written, I received fron the National srchives a

Fornerly withheld

internal Commission memo in which the Odio incident is

discussed ai some length. This undated memo was written by Willian Coleman

and David Slawson at souzaly the midpoint of the investigation, to

present

to the Connission merbers the evidence pertaining to foreiga involvement in

the assassination. The discussion of the Odio incident reflects the kind of

reasonable speculation and intelligent critical analysis which is so

conspicuously nissing from most of the final report.

This analysis sounds as if it was written by. one of the more knowledgeable

critics of the Warren Report.. After summarizing the known

facts in the odio

_case, Coleman and

Slawson, wrote:

"The evidence here could lead to an anti-Castro Cuban involvement

in the

assassination on sona sort of basis as this:

Oswald could have

become known to the Cubans as being strongly pro-Castro.. He made no

secret of his sympathies, and so

the anti-Castro Cubans nust have realized

that the law-enforcement authotities were also aware of Oswald's feelings

and that therefore, if he got into trouble, the public would

also

learn of then.

The anti-Cuban [sic] group ray even have believed the fiction

Oswald tried to create that he had organized some sort of large active

Fair Play For Cuba group in New Orleans.

Second, someone in the anti-

Castro organization night have been keen enough to sense that Oswald had

a penchant for violence thai might easily be aroused.

This was evident,

for example; when he laughed at the Cubans and told them it would be easy

to kill kennedy after the bay of Pigs.

On these facts, it is possible that

some sórt of deception vas used to encourage Oswald to kill the President

when he came to ballas.

Perhaps 'double agents' were even used to persuade

Oswald that pro-Castro Cubans would help in the assassination or in the

get-away afterwards. The motive on this would of course be the ex-

pectation that after the President was killed Oswald would be caught or

at least his identity ascertained, the law-enforcement authorities and

the public would then blame the assassination on the Castro government,

and the call for its forceful overthrow would be irresistable.

A 'second

Bay of Pigs Invasion' would begin, this time, hopefully, to end successfully:

The nemo's next sentence calls for the comment that speculation which

seemed "wild" eleven years ago may not be so wild today:

"The forezoing is probably only a wild speculation,

but the

facts that we already know are certainly sufficient to varrant additional

investigation."

The Conmission's additional investigation was not adequate, and facis known

now but not known to Coleman and Slawson in 1964

make additional invastigation

even more necessary.

---

## Page 29

Footnotes -3-

3/24/75

64.

11H372.

a general discussion, see li 321-4 and deagher,

"Accessories

After the Fact," p. 376-337.

65.

11H377.

55. On, Odio's veracity, see e.g. Meagher (note 64), p: 380.

67.

There were other incidents where someone might have been impersonating

Oswald.

David Slarson has

said that "the interposition of an inpostos,

if chat happened, is a political act." (Ref. 52) See also.p. 7 supra.

63.

Hubert and Griffin nemo of April 7, 1954 to Pankin.

69. Criffin meno of Augusi 20, 1954 to Willens.

70, Liebeler meno of September 14, 1964 to Willens.

71.

Meagher (note 64), P. 387; compare WP. 324 and CD 1553.

72.

Nº. 322.

I wiil be glad. to send this material to serious investigators. Copies have

already been given to several researchers.

• B-g., NYT March 10, 1975, p. 1.

75. Drew Pearson column of March 3, 1967 in (e.g.) the S.F. Chronicle..

Apparently

this column did not appear in the Washington Post except for a very short

version on March 7, 1957.

75.

This may be a reference to CD 1359, a still-withheld Top Secret letter of

6/17/64 from Hoover to Rankin, Ie

statements by.Castro on the assassination.

77,

The first two attempts involved poison capsules, and the other four involved

teams with rifles and explosives who were taken to Cuba by Roselli.

7S. Jack Anderson colunns of Jan, 19, Jan. 19, and Feb. 23, 1971..

79.

For other atteapis against Castro, see Szule, Esquire, Eeb. '74, p. 90-91,

and Scott, Ramparts, lov.

'74, p. 14-15,54.

80.

New Orleans Tines-Picayune, August l., 1963, p.

81.

Е-Б-, ПУТ, 4/19/63, р. 14; 4/21/63, р. 26; 5717

11.

82.

МУТ, Маг. 10, 1975, р..1.

83. This was a national IV network news report; the text is not available to me now.

84, Hunt, "Give Us This Day," p. 38-39.

85.

Senate Watergate Connittee Hearings, pP. 9723, 9749-55.

86.

Anderson colunn; Jan. 18, 1971 (S.F. Chronicle, p. 39).

87. Marchetti & Marks (Ief. 63), p. 290 (paperback edition).

88. CD 1545, p. 179; GE 3147, p. 5.

89.

NYT, Mar. 10, 1975, p. 1.

90.

19:1534.

---

## Page 30

Bloch

Footnotes -2-

3/24.75

27. I: 307-9; also CD 10342, section IX.

25. CD 1000. Some passages are still withheld.

22. Time, Feb. 10, 1975, p. '16; "Ihe Vantage Point," p. 26-7 (paperbaci edition);

Atlantic, July 1973, p. 39.

30. Peter Dale Scott, lamparts, Nov. 1973, p. 13.

31. CD 87, SS 559; CD 235; CD 409, p. 3; CD 1115-XIII-103; Wise & Ross,

"Invisible Governnent," p. 269 (paperback edition).

32. 911235-6; CU 555, p.. 7ö.

• 33. CD 555, p. 76.

34. See, e.g., "Whitewash II" by Harold Weisberg, Ch. 6; CD 950.

35. 18H795-6.

36.

CE 1961; Rankin letter of 5/19/64 to Folson.

37, CD 33, Pp. 1-2.

• 38...

N/T Dec. 25, 1974, p. 1.

39. E.5-, CD 692(g) -

40. Lists of withheld CD's and CIA CD's are avallable from the author.

:41. Letter of Dec. 14, 1971, fron I. K. white to the author.

42. CD 49, p.. 22.

43.

See p.

7 supra.

44.

4H441

45.

WR

688

46.

1H213; CD 120, p. 4-5; CE 834, items 13, 15-18, 20.

47..

Meno of 3/12/64, Slawson to the files, p. 7 (also p. 8); Coleman memo of 3/26/64.

48.

5H122.

49. Slawson memo of 3/12/64, p. 8.

50.

Stern memo of 3/27/64 to Kankin; 5H122.

51.

slawson memo of 3/12/64, p. 8.

52. NYT, Feb. 23, 1975, p: 32.

53 Fastein, "Inquest," pP- 93-95 (hard cover edition).

54.

Rankin letter to Hoover, 1/31/64; Hoover letter to Kankin, Feb. 5, 1964.

:55. Rankin letters to J. Rowley (USSS), Jan. 31 and Feb. 7, 1964.

• 55.

Helns neno to Papich (ERV, Ren le, leáie

57. Hoover letter to Bankin, Feb. 4, 196, (Weisberg, "Photographic Whitewash, " p. 143.

58..

This has been confirmed by an experiment I helped another investigator perforn.

59. liy request for this information under the Freedom of Infornation ict is pending.

&D.

511123-4.

51. See, for example, Jia Squires' article in the Chicago Tribune,, 3/15/75, p. 1.

62. CD 1532, still withheld.

63.

Conz. Rec, 9/23/65, p. 25393; Marchetti & Marks, "The Cle and the Cult of

Intelligence, " p. 339 (paperlick edition).

---

## Page 31

Hosh

Footrotes

3/24/75

1.

This false docurent says that Ruby was "perforning information functions"

for Nixon and HUAC in 1947. In fact, Ruby did try to contact the Kefauver

Crime Committee

in that year, possibly to act as an informant; that was

suppressed by the f3i and not explored by the Warren Commission.

2.

3.

New York Times [hereinafter "NYI"], Feb. 3, 1975, p. 14.

•CE [i.e., Warren Connission Exhibit] 821 (17H700 [i.e., Hearings Before

the President's Commission on the assassination of President Kennedy,

Vol. 17, page 7C0]).

4.

CE 834, question #l (17H789-790).

5.

NYT Jan. 16, 1975, p. 31. In 1960 the CIA intercepted a letter sent to the

Soviet Union by Bella Abzug in connection with her legal work in an estate

case. (N/T, March 8, 1975, p. 11)

6. CD [i.e., Warren Commission Document (in the National Archives) ] 692,

part (a). (See section II.D infra.)

•7.

That is, the file entitled "Funds Transmitted to Residents. of Russia," as

distinguished from the file entitled "Oswald."

8. CD 692, part (a), item 4.

9.

WR [i.e., Report of

the President's Commission on the Assassination of

President Kennedy] 326.

10. CD 692, part (a), item 4, pp. 1-2.

11. WR. 408; see also WR 290.

12.°

See, for example, a memo to the files from General Counsel J. Lee Rankin,

undated but approximately January 24-27, 1964, entitled "Ruinors that Oswald

was' an undercover agent."

The reported CIA informant nunder, 110669, was

apparently not checked

out.

For the Commission's reaction to these rumors,

see "Whitewash IV - JFK Assassination Transcript," written and published by

Harold Weisberg.

13,

WR 325-7.

14.

Washington Post, Nov. 22, 1974, p. 3; Connission executive

session transcript

for Jan. 27, 1954, p. 153-4 (reprinted in Weisberg book,

note 12).

15.

The CIA also denied having interviewed Oswald in Moscow. See CD 528.

16.

The other defector was Robert Edward Webster: See NIT, 5/25/62, p. 5.

17. VR 713; Peter Dale Scott, Ramparts, Novenber 1973, p. 17.

18.

WR 700, but compare SH1330-343 and CE 92.

19. Milton Kaack and Warren C. DeBrueys. Compare CE 825 with CE 826 and CD 692(a)4.

20. CE 835 (171816).

21.

See the article by Fensterwald and O'Toole in the liew York Review, April 3,

1975, and the Wurren Commission records cited therein.

22. CD 10840, pp. 4-5.

23..

CU 1034D, pp. 5-5; also see draft memo of April l, 1964, by Coleman and

Slawson, p. 3.

24. Tad Szulc, "Compulsive Spy," p. 96-97.

25. HT Maz. 8, 1975, p. 11.

26. Sone are presunably in part (E) of cu 692, for example.

---

