# 104-10186-10260

## Page 1

104-10186-10260

MANANOT MIRCHINONA MINE REMORIS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBECT Esther GAVILAN Rosales

CS CI-316: 00714-64

8 September 1864

1964

RETURN TO CIA

'DATE DISTA

NO. PAGES 1

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

Washington, D. C.

September 1964

Background Use

Do Not Reproduce

REFERENCES

CSCI-3/782, 061

29 June 1984

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUAYED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS

ARE DIDINITIVE APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVI

SOURCE:A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service

until April 196%.

Headguarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality information

provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the

records of this Agency.

It Is requested that the addressces take no action on any of the individuals

mertioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

Esther GAVILAN Rosales Is the wife of Rogello RODRIGUEZ

Lovez, the Subject of the above referenced report. '

Headquarrers Comment

1. Officialtravel manifests reveal that Esths GAVILAN Rosales arrived

In Mexico Cily from Cuba on 15 December 1961 and carried a diplomatic

passpurt; departed Mexico City for Cuba on 27 April 1962, carrying

Cuban diplomatic passport number D/61-538; and arrived in Mexico

from Habana on 8 July 1983, carrying Cuban diplomatic passport

number D, 63/455.

3

STATE

I DIA

ARAY

REP CINCLANT

¡Molar fiold dinbution indicated by "$".)

I NAvY

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

TAN

NSA

_CINCSO t

J&yS

Lotte

1 жа

1 oc

LEBL 2

INFORMARONEREFORTA INFORM

HON REFORE

WH SA FOB 1

d'E 5 RU

CT LATE

LX-165+=0-1716

WVH SA MQBI

JE MADRI CIR&AELE

No Projeci (ANANG 1)

NU SAR.

1001

CSCI-314/7:7-61

VLL VIVE:

RID; ANI

FOBALA

WHY SA 7 (1), NE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

10004014891991

LIGIBON

.ema

TORM NO

1

ONSOLETE PATVIOCS EDITIONS.

201-32665

41BR

---

