# 104-10172-10254

## Page 1

104-10172-10254

LA UNCLASSIFIED

INTERAL

LY

O CONFEDE TIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBECT: (peral)

02

[POLADDLE

FACH

SE/DB

10i, 0a degnaron, rome

4D57

umber, and

RICT/REA/E CT-S

please file

DATE

9149

IFICE®:

ANALI

10 AuguBE 1977

PORWARDIO

For PrADOLE 201

10.

11.

17.

19.

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

15.

1-01

6101903

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECRET

6 August 1972

MEHOHARUUM TURE Cluel, Defector Branch.

SE Divisions

SUBJECT

Jack Anderson Articlo on ALACLE Case

1. This is to infor you that on 2 August 1971, at the request of chief, SEle

secretary, I telephoned Mr. Jack Blake, the Actide DICt.

2. 19. Elate asied ne If "ALADLE" meant anything to no and did I over work.

With NEZADIE. (Ar. Blake used the cryptonya "LADE, " not kis true name.) I told

Mr. Blake that I had worked with ALADLE, along with many other case officers. He

asked if I knew of the circunstances of LADLE's defedtion, and I replied that I

know the case rather vell:

3. 1. Fede ind to wanted to talk with - e

(appeared in Resport Panio, Dombing,

Jack Andersou which was not in our local. (lashington, D.C.) newspapers stated that

"John Melsahon handled the MELADLE case and there was a bue (nicrophone) in every room

In the house where AFTADLE was kept." Mr. Blake asked If I were that

103

The had spoken with John N. Velahon earller; who knew nothing bout the case). f

repeated that I voried on the ALADLE case along with many otters, sey dELALE on

many occasions, but never worked ilth hin in my true name. I told It. Blake this

is inside infornation; is a security violation; and asked how Jack Anderson obtained

It.. Mr. Blake said to didn't know but that soneone would look into it. he thanked

De for my Inforcatton and cald he may contact no later.

4o I supcest that you obtain a copy of the above beationed Jacke Anderson article

as it pertains to a lefector handled by this Division and was a very sensitive case

at the tine. It would be interosting to know, too, what else Anderson had to say

about this case of the Areney's handling of it, and it should be made a part of the

AFTERLE 201 1126. *

03

Sa/ D3

certai

Dale: Secreter, of C/sE (Mary Bah, R-9045),

---

