‘RISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1998 .

Graserooa
SEQBET Cedrumase
Security Llaforastica oz
2 Ostovor 1953

Chior, 4b
APH. Chiof, Italien Branch
Beator Roprocsatative (Rand)

ot ee

2z beach eee with Ero, Anna BRADY

hogs Gaioss0ss orb5p48

ka o cselstell camversatica vaich Dobbs had vith cubjsot ot hie kom ca
5 ey” 1959, tho follewing infersaticn, relative to roferenced reports, escrged.

2.  Acsasting to cudjest, che doco not Imoy re, Luso vary voll, In 1944,
eerily efter Ho, laso catered the Church, gubjost wrote her o lctte? in ciica
eho ecbincd ber work end requscted ber to ecaicd tn tho apsctoldo effort ef C3?
ty becexing o egenesr of the ergenicsticn. Ae eadjoat 40, @ eeca ike koro
wonld of esayss bo of tranmmécus proctdgs valuo. HKroo zeo Feplicd in 0 coxdal
Yctear withsed ccumlt: horool? coying that cho would civays esccurago
ehede grest wort, As to eubdjest they exuhenged too op thrve leticra bud
gadjess alsayo cvaldcd eacdd fire. Leso whoa they both lived ta New Yoru.

Accasting to eabdjest the caly thms cho haa epedea to Tho Acbasecdop vag
cey we “ealy a (2933) escepiica bold 08 Ville Yeverna. Ab that tics cao Bree
exnte4 bores: the ressiving Mine es Kro, Brady of CIP, Sha sasagesdcr,
eee ics the cane ebacrvad thet cho worted with Pr. ROQLIGH, to wailed
Gracy asdéed esccnte

bo U2, eo roScrencsa eicdo, thors Lo 0 ccaasctica Estwoca Tho Anhoceator

es edi "exgced fo esplainiy es} cen ening 4% Bebdds $0 of tho exinica
thd congssd cep Coliing the bute 3 cH Gabe frooly cx4 cinscHhzs
Bstss also rescived tho isgrescica tact eey conciécp thst bcp first
esicsto Gd eodicd a Tyros taso’o eta kod bean fed aad that ey gory barscr
© £33 ¢? § canal § e? pessatmn tevarts bra, Less. Fito Soca Cag
gigas fa canzone Varicss mario tewerd Fhe dcbescedts? ta chet eho peferncd

band virerpe ee LaGyenly? exd Ocha aay be o cach cicar ed Kinder pore aoe

ba exvived ead docaa") have to edep ca aay ero accze.”

So 2a @2 cb¥iguo way eabjcst acssshateo hepesl? «3th Kea. nce ag 6 earecr
Cetet, Sedjocd boo peaasucd thst cho, Liko the Achacssésp, fesca eany praia

e390 es Gascutiva working ia Btaly exd thas fa o cay eno conciésre boreal? ca
having biased 0 pata fer Keo, Laso, eined cho corasd in Realy ca 0 esa axsgutive
ieag bofsre Eve, laso arrived

4



soourity Inforastica 0.
‘ago 2

6, Shortly bofero Kro. luco loft Hew Tork to comme her exbaceadorial
poss, cba vecaived Pr, Morlicn at dicnor, The dirmor wso held at Hary WO3'o
igeicteacs, ‘Tho Ambasecéer, much harricd by procaing eppaintcante, woo Bot
edlo te apsad tho whole evening at dinner. Fr. Morlica, however, reaniacd to
Sols with Hr, Lise, wbo denated 015,000 to CIP. Later Vr. Herlica ecafided to
exbjost thot he thought Hr. luoe had oven greater oplritual substance than his
wige, (It aight bo that Moric acacureo spiritual substance by the amount of
eid coatributed to hio caso.)

Fo According to cubjoct cho hao cot Caniimal SPILIMAT caly twies, Hor
fired mosting with hin was ta 1946 when Opolicsm como to Resa to receive hio
red tat. Vegother with Pro Nordica, cubjost calicd ca Spolinan cd hic hstole
Eeciica catliaca eho werk of O3P end colicdecd tho Goriinal'o finenodal eid.
Gxdfest, bavover, states that 4% vas cho tho vas cacecceful in parcuading tho

gad to echo a castrdtuticn, fo ead that cho prosented hor case 4a two
psiate, diagly cad areal 2) That G2P was em epoctolic work end oo such was
worthy ef eagpert, exd 4) Yhat exe cas a How York rocident end,es auch, tho

Castinad wag her Cachop and tho lecical peresa to vica che should dros her
4% tho ead cf hor prescmbatien tha Cariiaal teck ext hic chao bool,
Gzdjecd’o Chsictias namo, cad wrote hep a choo’ payeblo to Auna Brady for
O268.G85 Bxbgect cited tho above incddent oc on example of tho way tho Cardinal
wert3, Ets cad

thet che was vesy careful that the check wao cleared and po=
cogésd throagh tho bank essomt of CIP.

OQ, Ghestly before eating to Baza, cadjest wickted Spalinsa ot hie Dew fork
bom, cS cs tics the Caxttaad ested fe che were fa need of Puta for ho?

ELIESenanso, dedicadicg that ke would offer hic eeppors to the extend
{asd cSd epald bo edie to pescosally continue hor wore Cubjoat told hia theb
eke GM2a kod @ Utdke eangy of her Ge ced would not require aay funds for hep
Goresaad eniatemessa, bab would wolecss any dexaticaa to CFP

Qo Ascemting te cadgsst, Cariinad Gpoliman te 0 ean cf political ecumca
bas fo ect fncokisstually grcdo Eko criticised tho Cardinal for carrounding
Bazsci? wata took ema end aid thc} ba occa blo pacitiaa eolely to tho psseciad
SFA 6? bald HEB, wazcd eGo Uitnd 6333 bo 69 cca co Keg bo bho FF

zz to Ee Qiao fo much hsted sy tha dcordcsa Bicragchy becsusa
02 Elo 8dghd tacicscnce ca excglcte cant 8 end blo gencral condzcd ao o *LAthle
Qin 62> Wee eae trahda ecra kin o €23, eed mca caong Chuzcd road esteto Grospo
in Bsa Vert. Recalling tho Weanop OOGSNeRP tackdcad of o fox yeara bac, cadjood
bsrciend thst GpalLaza’o resmtatica cao ct the epcalfle Glrectica of tho Ke.
EBESP 9

23 20d eppasmbly bao boca very quccesafd ts eliciting fends fro
the texters Esciegs, exacy tho Gectnsdp GUSLO of Costea, wae Uaassed 62000600
phe feeniso ef ccatiassd apport, lasther heavy ccatribetcr to CLP Rasy
(GHD, presiacz) Casheito laywunta of Uestene fededeetee

[rears §
Geourity Laferustica



exER
Sosurdty Infossaties Gandstes
Page 9

BB Eangest Miveo very exsoctly end chews na evidancd of woakes fn ber
Besp oto 6 57 op £3 bop Gscc9 ead pamper of Uving. On ths ecsizasy,
[=] gore to tne face ORS, a tao bo crete 9 ber eee

fo erate ea tay ca Gold thas to epesiag «> envecss exe tes eo
9 ta) essaid cep Elo tuo Callesca of hep edcsimt Could besezo Church preporty.
tae RSA thed che Eid usd thorsSore Orencfer o lemgo eza frea hep ey Yor’
baad to ha Veibde,
dgersding Ge Osbiso}, Eonao BS ANGELES vas pleced fa GP ty Mons.
inavall ‘al Gaba 08 Casinlia es ot care Ly aes rea? bef id

er > 727) Crud be rosa tm eemmoctden eAth tho refermzssd
ph told gaya pepzessdg

borates ty bstoo ok

prey)
3 Csthern
ep

Gictrt

