io inse-02ae}

u

MEMORANDUM'FOR : Chief, Building Security Branc..

FROM

SUBJECT

AZ TOO

2. 1705
’

a 1710

a 1720

oe “Tho.

Ae vuns age

fy sucvaisee

o2 pa -TeSneeESEESEEEEEE +) En Op,

: SDO's|

: Tour of Duty Report, 1700 - 0100 hours

~ Entered on duty. Reviewed current OSDO instructions, chrono
file and previous tour of duty report..

oT SB, inguiried if the keys to any rental cars
en left in the OSDO. SDO advised Mr in the
negative. GGS oy

- Received backstop call on 356-5996 from Ken for Andrews.
Message passed to Mr. Smith. Call logged. WEC

~ James Fearon, MDO, advised he can be reached via Pageboy #
until further notice. WEG

S EEeeaatieeeaa

- Sid Feders, cBS/NEWS » called to verify the former employment
of Edward McCord. Obtained Mr. Feders telephone number and
advised him the Special Ass't. would call him. Contacted and
briefed Mr. Unumb who will handle. SDO will respond to SR&CD
to run a name check. ee

6 1gho

~ Operations Center requested a name check on Edward Martin, who
was involved in a demonstration at the Watergate and claimed to
‘be employed by the Agency. After a check of SR&CD based on
information available, SDO informed the Operations Center that
the Subject had not been employed by the Agency. The same is
true for item #5 and Mr. Unumb so advised. GGS WEG

: ca 1750

Pan 1755
1805
3O. 1825

pe 1825

J6: 2 1825

~ Mr. Iszara, Med Psd/Do, advised that he can be reached via Page
Boy #Us1 until further nobiee.- WHC

- USSP Cumbow, Key Building, reported a possible violation in room
210, ext-3712. Advised USSP to impound the material and that an
SDO would respond. WEC

- Mr. Van Damn, DD/Ieg, advised that he can be reached on 759-2712
after 1830 hours. WEC é

- Mr. Dennis, SOD Support Steff, advised that he would be away from
home for about an hour and would call when he returns. WEC

~ USSP Sgt. Dickens, Co. E, advised that due to the shortage of
manpower there will only be three men in the 2430 E St. complex. |
03

- Mrs. spouse 0: FE, requested that the SDO
abt: ‘o determine the location and BTA of her husband, who
was enroute from Saigon. os FE, and the CSDO

who will handle. GGS

