# 104-10110-10710

## Page 1

104-10110-10710

• to snado.....!

TO

2

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSI

ITION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

A JFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

Vui

Don- deli

an 69i

41. Tigles

DATE

10-11

76-11

10 • 11-67

INITIALS

33

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

_ PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarker Tee aTtached is wist

a Cos file i end

Click anst Seal desen

bralerial cdu cares fTai

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

Sleier

UNCLASSIFIED

23

Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

10/10/67

SECRET

(40)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 2

14-00000

and farcy's

cu Ceden

!

Cale d

In Solie do jou want dies

......

??why A016

yay.

• .

APTINENZO FOR RELEASE 1903

CIA BISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 3

cor

sale

Thre s

Chief, 588

DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS

M. D. Stevens

PEREZ, Balph

1444 260

18 October 1967

paragraph 2 of the altached memorandum on Richard S." CAIN

Sable who ta 19 pe a til on at protest Dos (00/0)

for rontine exploitation ma a source of forelgu positive intelligence.

2e. On 28 June 1963, Security advised DCS regarding an un-

subatantiated report that Subject subseribed to the Communit

pablication "'YOZ de MEXICO" and wan a Communiat leader li

194t' He reportedly was a leades ol the Communet naclent li

the Chicago Mexican colony. According to a potation dated 6/26/63,

this information was "connidered resolved in Sabject" a favor through

1959 B.d. conducted on Sabject's sister. " DCS was also Informed

Phat Sabjoct's sister (Marla Gradalupe GALLARDO, with varlone

akam) was reported by reliable Informants to have been « member

of the Mexican Commiston of the Communist Party la 1946 and

card carrying Communiat Party member in 195l. Durlag an Inter-

View in 195%, he admitted attending meetings of the Commanin

Party and a Communist Party school during the mid-1930', in Chicago

but dented havlag attended Communist Party affaire mubsequent to 1945,

or to ever having been a member of the Commandot Party.

Bo With reference to Guillerno ESCOBARUSEE

whom Subject

(PEREZ) is said to have given

lead, he may or may not be Galllermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, aka: •

Guillermo (MARTINEZ) ESCOBAR, 1444 260. a Mexican eltiren

There Is so derogatory information in ESCOBAR'I file and ne

information on him since 1957.

SECRE

GROUP 1

Exciaded tram automatic

downgrading s

dectassilicar ten

---

## Page 4

* The only other Cuillermo ESCOBAR on whom there le

Information in Security Indicer lo an Individual by that name, lluted

In a 1 Decomber 1949 repost on The fourth (TROTSITATE) Inter®

matlonal, The Gullerme ESCOBAR, Seesetary General of the

Federacion de Obreras de Imprenta do Chile, man linted as one el

the personalities la the Partido Obrero Revoluclanario, an "tallaled".

Chilean organIzation.

M. D. Stevens

Attachment: memo dtd 9 Oct 67

MDS/Cor

SECRET

---

