# 104-10050-10048

## Page 1

104-10050-10048

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Inside Washington

21001.64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From Wart

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

cials who actively oppose

on has

yet

to

be

And PAUL SCOTT

*Soviet

used

dismissal of such persons

liquid

Tete policies.

against

any

high

from public office,

at oth-

"Soviet Strategic

West-

ern

hundreds of

form.

The

having

within seco

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Executive

Action,"

official,

the

KGB agents

er

times

even

covertly. op-

them 'eliminated'

physi-

autopsy wou

-The Central Intelli-

suppressed

CIA

docu-

gence

Agency

withheld

ment went into the shock-

erating outside of Russia

have been

supplied with

cally.

"Such

ils.

use.

activities

vital

intelligence

are

poisons have

infor-

ing

details of how agents

this

pocket-size, gun,

known

to be undertaken

ed which do

mation from the Warren

of KGB, the Soviet secret

awaiting only orders

against

Commission during its in-

are trained to

do

from Moscow to use it.

persons in the West, not.. after being :

vestigation

the

assas

Sination of President

police,

other types of

fect until s

away.

with Western lead-

The

Murder Weapons

ably

defectors from

the

thus allowin;

ers, including officials in

HIGHLIGHTS

of

the

U.S.S.R.

and from

other

to be far fro

Kennedy.

the

U.S.,

and to

make

suppressed intelligence

countries

of

the Soviet

when

his

VIC

Despite

the: commis

their deaths appear due

estimate, which is locked

bloc.

"A'know

sion's written request. for

to

natural causes,

in a security area within

"One recently reported

all documents that might

One of the KGB's new-

the

tightly guarded CLA,

assassination technique is

SOurce

has

shed

light

on the assas

Iy

devised

assassination

are

pneumaticall!

as follows:

to

electrocute an

individ-

poison:

Ice

sination,

CIA authoritias

wapons is "a: pnumati-

"It

has

been

reported

ual

by

luring

him

to

Thich

leaves

failed. to turn over a na-

cally: operated poison ice

that the KGB endeavors

use a telephone, connect-

pr other evic

tional

intelligence

mate warning

esti-

"atomizer' . which leaves

to remove-the - threat to

ed to a high-voltage wire,

_cause oi deai

that it

is

. по

wound or other evi-

Soviet interests posed by

during

a thunderstorm.

Congressio:

Kremlin policy to remove

dence

from public office by as

dente of the cause d

certain: members of West-

"Another involves the

gators,

who

sassination

.: ern governments, some-

use

pistol

which

that the nar

Western offi-

While this deadly weap.

times:

arranging

for;the projects a poison gas in

• committee

Other Suppressed

Doeuments

OTHER US intell

bione of

Istence

line, stress that

have

this:

sup

Eithe State De

Cent

had been avail.

for

stody.::

They

point.

out

the

That

State Dapartment

suppressed evidence link-

ing

Oswald with one

its

employ as,

#ão

cording to security files,

"presenter

strong

Soviet

pro.

views

on

every

question

that

came.

in

the Dapartments

U.S.SA.

coratry commit.

teet

while

he was a

methis State Department

This

Dificial's

peared

name also

ap

in

the

address

book of a suspected So

viet

agent

#0O

in the

U.S.

in

arrived

1943,

cording

to - government

files.

Congressional investi

gators

also

have

shocked to

been

discover that

assasstration

shown byradministratio

officials to Speake John

McCormack. (Mass.) next

in. line to succeed

dent ohnson.

while

officiaks

warned

Speaker

McCor-

cack, a

dedicated

anti-:

"Comminist, that he is on

the list of Western

Cials feared by the Krem

Iim,

no

CIA

authority

has shown the No. 2 man

in government

the

CIA

report

listing

these

•SE-

cret Soviet assassination

metrods.

Instead,

Mc C o rmack

learned about the report

only

recently

from

con-

gressional

probers

who

are

trying

to - determine

why

the

document

has

been suppressed.

Toe

investigators

also

are

why the

the CIA

determine

in its

prev

assassination

report

to

the State Department on

Oswald's trip

Mexico

City

gave detaits only

of

the defector's visit to the

Russian embassy and not

the

Cuban

•embassy.

CIA

did

the

latter

not

visit

report

The

until

Kennedy's

after

assassination

in

Dallas,

mansel

file

p. 8543

The caller foon the

Cabar.

Was un dinifed

000U243

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

D 02186

---

