vu:___AIR POUCH

(COPECIFY AiR OR GEA POUCH)

CURITY [RFORHATION
CLASSIFICATION
ro 3 CHIEF, » WHD WNAG- 26

“prom: (cH OF STATION,

‘SUBJECT: orn

sercric— Conmmnist bananeersie

zi

FRFRRENOS: DY user, GSS GS S760
ES ees

and @Sgurz? 22 ii ‘es Say
I. Generel: é
@

2

A. In 193201933 thousands of Salvadorans were killed in what was
known as a Commnist uprising. At that time many Commnist were
killed and many escaped abroad where they are contimiing their
Commnist activities today. The strong reprisale against ,the
Communist twenty years ago, have been strong deterrents to the
growth of Communism, In addition, International Communism has
ince those early days concentrated its activities elsewhere -
not in El Salvador.

B. The present strength of the Communist Party of Bl Salvador (PCS)
is estimated to be between three to four hundred with 30-40 mili-
tanta (Laision estimates 50) and real “hard-core” members to be
about 15, In considering the individual member of the PCS it must
be advised that he is not the intellectual, the welleread, the tre-
veled, the talented Commnist one finds in Europe or even a lerge. . i
South American eatelte
cae
Cc. ee nile extremely anti-Communist, tolerates Comme
toate ‘“ilérifs an¢ has exiled cortain Commntet friends wth
~ Govermmsnt Genetona and diplomatic posts in the belief that abroad
y,. they can do no harm, At home a Communist who does not
fa, OSORIO can and probably dees hold a governnent, Job AUALINDO-?
Je 4 \

D. Nob unt the Government discovered large amounts of Commniet :
propaganda coming into El Salvador from Guatemala did the Governe ©
mont realise the danger of Cosmuniem, The influx of such propas
ganda was first noticed about one year ago when a bundle of propa-
ganda was discovered on the YAtamatio R id of. Conetrel 1

ky Brita Kaul
a OPM
3-4 GJ-397

2
iam : - OW G7

BIAS 61-280



Be

Fe

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION
(2)

Amorica coming into Bl Salvador from Guatemala, 'ore prope
aganda was discovered on both the train, in trucks and auto
mobiles and on suspicious persons entering V1 Salvador from
both Guatemala and Honduras, In the aumer of 1952 the Gove
ernment began to inspect the baggage of exiled Salvadoran
Communists who were landing at ILopengo airport intransit to
Guatemala, In this fashion they discovered and consficated
Commnist pins, leaflets, books films (Bd films printed by
Peiping), addressed, atc., from Salvadorans traveling to Com=
minist, China and Commnist kurope on Guatemalan passports.

One week after President OSORIO and President ARBRN2Z of Guate-
mala mat on the common border, Presidént OSORIO declared a
ugtate of Seige” at which time he arrested about two hundred
"“Commnist" in the Capital city of El Salvador and about @
"thousand" throvghout the country. He deported 18 Coumnists
to Costa Rice and kept another forty or fifty in jail. The
Government had published"Communist Party Plans for the over=
throw of the Government" with photographs of grenades, rifles,
pistols, mimeograph machines, ete. purportedly found in the
homes of various Conmunist leaders, Neither the Party Plans -
nor the amount of ams appeared to the undersign - nor to other
kmbassy Officials + authentic, Logical, sufficient, and danger
ous enough to warrant the State of Sioge. It appeardd to be
Gguerment propaganda aimed at explaining its actions to the
masa of people, It is believed that the real reason for the
Governments action was tho fear of the future if Communist
propaganda was contimed.

The background for today's aituation; vis a vis the Come
munist Party of El Salvador, mst dnolude certain political, »
mildtary,and economic facts. President OSO8LO is politically. _
acutes he is sincere; ho is progressive and desires greater 4
democracy for his country.which he realises is dependent upen
greater literecy and education. OSORIO has permitted the growth
and the creation of other political parties, but no other pol-
itdcal party threatens the strenght of the President's party
Partido Revolueionario do Union Democzatica, The Amy is com
pletaly leyal to the President and if there are political mach=
dnations within tho Amy they are in the form of plans for tho
nomination and election of their respective candidates in the
elections to be held in 1956. The Amy, itself has various
political cliques within it, but to the beat of our knowledge
all oldques give OSORIO: their full support. Beonomically, the
country is very sound witi a high degree of employment and wages
dnoreasing. In view of strong economy and a stable anti-Come
munist Governemt the Communist Party of El Salvador finds very
few oracke in tho political wll in which to offectively place
their propaganda wedges.

SzCREt

SECURITY INFORMATION



Re

Be

Ce

7 ;

MATIC

Ife Politics:

In August of 1991 it was reported thet, the Cormuni, + would
attempt to penetrate the Partido Accion Renovadora. R) to
suoh an extent that they would have control, whereby they could
Slect Commniste to the National Assembly, ‘The Communists did
infiltrate PAR, but they became so numerous and so vociferous
that the members of PAX finally realized what had happened and
printed leaflcts dennouncing the Communists within the Partys
PAR practically dissokved thereafter and again the Communists
were left without a political front group. The Communists dure
ing this time did a lot of talking and planning, but’thoy admit-
ted that it was difficult "under the OSORIO regime" to make pol-
itical strides, but that they were making great advgipes in the
labor movement. It can be written that the Commnis$ Party to-
day has had no success in either establishing itself os a strong
political force nor has it been able to use another’ poligical pare
ty as ite tool.

Within the Government, the /linistry of Labor and the Ministry of
Culture and Education are frequently attacked for harboring Com-
munieta. It has been reported at various times that Renaldo
GALINDO PHL, Minister of Culture ‘and Education is e Communist.
Juan Bosch, the Dominican Commnist is eupposed to have called
GALINDO a "reliable comrade." Presidnet OSORIO is reportedly
aware of GALINDO'S political beliefs, but disregards then eince
they are friends and GALINDO ia not knowingly plotting against
OSORIO. The President also belioves that GALINDO can be well
tyatehed" where he ie and that to discharge him or exile him would
ake him nore dangerous. GALINDO ie also ecoused of creating the

ri 4 TNSTTTUTO NORAZAN whieh became don nated by qpme twenty seven

Tommunists professors. (Pleaso sce TSS-803)

While the National University is autonomous, it does receive fine
encial support from the Ministry of Culture and Education. It has
boon tha National University where the Communists. have ¢!
their greatest euccess. The prominent Commnigt Ro ad
«Barrios wac Dean of the Schobl of Bgcnonics where he un
influenced many a student; at loast the School of Economics became
the most vociforous on behalf of Commniam. “The Student newepsper
_ OPINION BSTUDIANTTL becans the organ of the Goumnlad Party. Each
edition of the newspaper (once a weelt) followed the Co munist Party
line whether it was an "intamnational editorial" or a local one.

aairieat i _

Y INFORMATION



core
; Sei
Siuualed IMR oTe a

(hk)

ul

nari? fuoms NACALI, bragged about the newspaper as being come
pletely under the control of the Co: nist Party, There was
no doubt. And it was immediately seigdd at the time the State
of Siege was declared, ‘The Co imuniats Students have been since
exiled, jailed, and/or renoved from any influence in student
circles, JUHENKZ Barrios has lost his pesition with the Uni-
versity and has been replaced by a adamant antisCommnist. Julio -
~< Peete-FEMUANDEZ, however, has been recently named Vice-Dean of
the Scholl of Hunanities, FANSTO FERNANDEZ is probably Salvador{s
most inteLlloctual Communist, le recently returned from Chile
where he was Counselor in tho Salvadoran Xmbassys He was accused
of smuggling in tax-free cigarrettes and stealing governnent doce
uments. Upon his return to Salvador he vindicated himself with
both the Foreign sinister and the President. On 31 January, 1953
FAUSTO FERNANDEZ spoke at the National University at which time
he @:nnounced Marxism and declared that he had returned to the
Catholic faith, The consensus of opinion among Commnistsa, stue
dents, “he Army, and the Priests ie that he, FAUSTO FERMANDEZ,
: as not renounced Communism, but is using another tactic (and the
: only one that would pervit hin to remain in tha good graces of the
‘ Governnent) to further the Conmmnist cause. On or about 16 Feb=
,. ruary, 1993 thore appoared on the streets a clandestine Commnist
R leaflet, which is believed by several sources to have been written
by FAUSTO FERNANDEZ, It can be said that at the present FAUSTO
VEANANDEZ is being discreet and only the future will prove or dis-
prove his own statements.

D. In the Ministry of Labor, the Commnists appear to have had some=
what similar success; although their guesess was not quite as
Ll known, it was just as dangerous. The Minister Mario Hector >
“«? hae often been accused of being a Communist, but this is
believed to be an unfounded accusationbased principally on his
normal work which has, of coiirss conflicted, with the historical
interest of tho monied clasa Rogule fRal Leandro, Chief of Labor
Inspectors, has been considered a Communist (he was refused a grant
%o study in tho United States on this basis, but given ancother
explanation) and it has come to the attention of this Station on
numerous occassions that LRAL'S Inspectors often told labor groups
in various industries what policies they eould adapt, what thoy os
sboadd strike for, and would advise Labor groups on goverment be-
nefits, procedure, etc., while on strikes ‘LEAL was influential in
bringing into the Inspector's De: tment well, known leftist and/or
Cc it. These wore J. Antonio PARADA, Napoleon<VILLACORIA, Je -*
<<" Alberta’ VASQUEZ, and MarioWSALAZAR Valente (Not believed to be

ODUCTIO

AO

URE, CARD RED

SECURITY INFOMATION

PERTU



14:00000
pote : v

iesvereerest sucta ere! Pam

related to the Minlater). Prier to the declaration of the
State of Siege, it was ‘Learnc: that there was
a certain amount of sanotage 0°: Ministry of Labor.
A few days after the State of Siege wat declared it was reported
that SALAZAR VALIENTS was arrested for being the Director of a
Co mnist cell within the ‘Ministry of Labor and that he «as re-
i sponsible for the sabotage of the Government trucks. Some Army
officers reportedly ‘asked President OSORIO to discharge Hario
Mector SALAZAR for harboring a Comunist cell within the Ministry.
The cell has been, of course, liquidated and the ‘4nister cone
times to have the faith of the President amd most of his former

detractors.

E. In othor branches of the Governnent there appeara to be no Come
muniet influence and no jmown penetration. ‘The Army has always
remained anti-Communist and there have been no reports indicating
any Communist in the Army and furthersmore no reports have been
received that the Communists have been or are planning the pene=

_ tration of oc Aemye ‘The Station did receive one report that

Dra 08 oraPOaR ARRANZA AMEYA ( a lawyer ‘and brother to(Colone} Rafae] :-
CARRANZA AMAYA, Inspector General of the Amy) was being used by
‘for , & known 1itant Cormanist, to obtain information
abgut tho Army and possibly to elicit ‘the support of certain Amy
officers in a move to overthrow the Government. This plan naa, for
the time being, coms to nought.

oz
Fe Qian believes that there are several Commnists in the Presi-
m' House who are unknown a3 Commnists to the President and

consequently; dangerous. He could not gave named, bat he did
VALINDO POHL was undoubtedly a Commniot. Bunks BDO
3 Costa. Broan, Goma (or once was) is reported to ms

treas of Josequatgiss the Presidente Press Secretary. This in-
formation was passed on to [ialson with no visible results, ODIO
contimes to write for the Zarious newspapers, but all her pub-
Dldshed writtings at the present are uous, Jeaquin ASTRO

- se: Ggnaalag or better now by his can naxiag Quind oat, vas Tnthi o

“ few months ago the Editor of the Gove: newspaper La Tribuna ‘gn? 5
dn which Quino Caso often attacked the United States. He fe eel sae
ldeved of this position, howover, sometime in Ootober,1953. Ae thi
tims the editorial policy of the newspaper became much more. Syme=
pathetic to the United States. Quino Caso has been described a8
a Commnist and yet described as a person who de against ell pole .
4tdoal moverants, Commnicn, Facism, etc. The trrth 4s not kngun
at-this time. : :

: eee i

YQ ee an :
fer

SECURITY INFORMATION

REPRODUCTIONS

OR

RE CARD,



14-00000

pe | 2
. : : ay :
4 i
-
qipar
Gira
§5)
: 16-26
related to the itinister). to th declaration of the
State of Siege, it was learnc: y on)enat there was
a certain amount of sabotage Ministry of Labor.

A few days after the State of Siege wan declared it was reported
that SALAZAR VALIENTS was arrested for being the Director of a
+ Co mnist cell within tie “Anistry of Labor and that he was re-

fe soonsible for the sabotage of the Government trucks. Some Army
officers reportedly asked President OSORIO to discharge Mario
Hector SALAZAR for harboring a Co munist cell within the Ministry.
The cell has been, of course, liquidated and the “inister con-
times to have the faith of the President amd most of his former”
detractors.

E. In other branches of the Governm.nt there appears to be no Con-
munist influence and no know penetration. The Army has always
remained anti-Communist and there have been nd reports indicating
any Conmunist in the Army and further-more no reports have been
received that the Commnists have been or are planning the pene-
tration of the Amy. The Station did receive one report that
Dri. Antonit AMEYA ( a lawyer and brother to(Colone} Rafael -
CARMI AMAYA, Inspector General 9§ the Army) was being used by
, & known militant Communist, to obtain information

; the Amy and possibly to elicit the support of certain Amy
officers in a move to overthrow the Government. This plan has, for
the time being, come to nought.

roe :

‘TOR believes that there are several Communists in the Presi-
House who are unknown as Communists to the President arid

D____ consequently; dangerous. He could not gfive names, but he did

“——~“ateate that) GALINDO POHL was undoubtedly a Commniat. Eunis

a Costa Peaemeien the (or once was) is reported to ms-

“tress” bredl pacer Press Secretary. This in-

formation was passed on to igon with no visible results, ODIO

contimes to write for the tarious newspapers, but all her pub-

blished writtings at the aarti are innocuous, Joaquin CASTRO >

Csngalea.or better known by hi nd 0a86; wad th wnthi @

few months ago the Rditor of then G newspaper La Tribuna . | 52?

in which Quino Caso often attacked the United States. He wag — fe

Ageved of this position, however, sometime in Ootober,1953- At this

tims the editorial policy of tho newspaper became much more, syne

pathetio to the United States. Quino Caso has been described as

@ Commmnist and yet described as a person who is against all pole EF

Atdcal movements, Commnism, Faciem, eto, The theth is not kngun

at-this tims. :

“%

:
a

‘ SECURITY INFORMATION



teiraldo

ceeetes
SLT AERATION
(7)

the labor leaders by the Communist, But without his knowledge
that he is a creature of the Commiiist. One report states that
GALINDO POHL is behind the rise of JJLE. At any rate, he has
become an important labor figure offer night. Labor unions and
their individual members are now more cooperative with the Min-
ister of Labor and with government policy than they have been in
the past. Several unions. have lost their Commnists directors
through elections which were held throughtout November and Dec-
ember. The rank and file members of the unions have been mada
aware of Communism by means of Government action and a strong
Propaganda campaign; consequently, it is knwon that Labor, in
ite newly acquired political consciousness has given its support
to the Governnent.

IV. Propaganda
A.

Communist propaganda is neglible. Since the State of Siege was
declared the 27th of September, 1952 there have been enly two
instances in which communist propaganda has appeared on thestreets
of San Salvador. In both cases the propaganda was mimeogrephed
and did not appear to have a large circulation as persons re-
ceiving such propaganda were difficult to find (not even GUULAR
could find @ copy among hie Commnist friends) and there wereDz
no editorial comuents on the eppearance of the propaganda, The
Law in Defense of the Constitution passed by ths Kstional Assembly
in December, 1952 makes it illegal to be a C st, to parti«
cipate in any Communist activity, or to work on of Commn-
iea in any manner. Thia law and ths fairly rigid’ cation of
it by the Government has undoubtedly deterred many: from promoting
in any fashion Commnist propaganda. (The Govertment has in the
past failed to recognised the right of Habous Cotpus in those cases

of jailed Communists).

Recently there have been two newspaper articles which may have been
jommunist inspired but this is pure speculation end nothing more.The
ario de Occidente of Santa Ana which is edited ty ons Alf:

once ed for opposition to President OSORIO) publiehed
‘an erticle that the United states Marines had landed in Guatemala
to protect the United Fruit Company, No sourea ar by-line was given.
Another article published by several of the newspapers but which
eeemed to have originated in Honduras, Costa Rica, or Managua atat~
ed that the HENRY FORD III Foundation had given five million dole
lars to fight Communism in Central America.
7

SECRET

"TY (KFORMATION

)

Terratec npn A ROAR ESERIE BBY WIRY ee OREN Caer BARB ine nalecta st ioenagataces © 08 8



00000. CIBBeEESee Sa)

B, On the other hand, anti-Communist propaganda is heavy, daily
and in ell madia of propaganda, Edj.toriaks, cartoons, and
newspaper articles depicting Communin in its worse light -
appear every day im the five daily newspapers. The radio

i i does its share of anti-Communist propaganda. There has been
elese to a "hate campaign” of Guatemalan Commnism iith the
emphasis on Corumsisine

Vv. Summary

A. In gumastion, the PCS is ineffective as a political force at
the present time, It has not been a political force in the
last twenty years, but it haegpade progress in labor matters
and probably at one tims controlled more then one half of the
syndicates. This is no lon; true, however, and the PCS has
loat most of its influence among labor by a strong government
policy against Communism. In acdttion, anti-Communist propa-
ganda, by both the Government and private intereats, has been
effective in weaning labor away from Co:mnist influence.

Be The new policy of the PCS is to to be less overt and more
clandestine. Tho PCS aims to “plant” its members in strategic
unions and government offices, to “cooperate”, and to await
the opportune time before they announce themselves as Commnists.
Id appears that the PCS is almost completely dependent upon the
Communist Party of Guatemala for its instructions and directives;
consequently the success or failure of the Conmuniats in Quate-
mala will determine the futero policies of the PCS. (This ia
also the belief and the fear of the Salvadoran Government).

C. The PCS will produce anti-US propaganda at evory opportunity,

bat at the present they have no organ of propaganda and the two

x leaflets they have produced since September, 1952 are considere

: od ineffective. The people of El Salvador appear to completely
support President OSORIO whom they recognise as dedicated to ine
creasing wages, raising the standard of living, granting better
education, and ebtaining better food and living quarters for ell
Classes of workers. In addition, the Covernmont has made it clea:
that the threat of Commniem comes from Guatemala which has made iTs
anti-Communiat propaganda quite effective.

COUMEATY INTO RATION



xr, teeming egies ota Teer

ee SER EE
- SECURITY INFORMATION
(9)

SECRET

A
I}
"> SECURITY INFORMATION

65-4 #7397 |

SF ens Ma Ao i nrneivierei ricki
ce acl ‘

