# 104-10216-10420

## Page 1

104-10216-10420

•LASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICO

TOTAL COPIES

PARIS

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

Ting

DE/wile 5

108080

it Me. FILE, Dee, CoRP, elwEs, elses, des, caz, Dbs2

T050e

діт

,. 4 1 3 MAr 85 IN 6 6557

Alisk/i

REPROOUGTION PROMIBITEO

SECRET 131845Z

MADR DIR CITE PARI 1971

DESEBTREDTYPIC INSNAFU AMASH FIDUSIL

LCIMPROVE

REF PARI 918S ((N55414) 14

1. FOLLOTING IS SUMMADY OF PITCH MADP BY AMLASH/S TO PARI STAFFER

PAULA S. MIPRLEES 6 MAY. MIRPLEES, IN CAPACITY ASST. TO GLOADEN,

HAS MET UNSNAFU/S APPROX E TIMES DURING PAST TWO MONTHS AND ON

29 APRIL MET AFLASHIS FOR FIRST TIME WHEN HE ACCOMPANIED UNSNAFU/S

TO SCHEDULED MEETING, AS REPORTED REF•

?. ON E MAY, UNSNAFU/S ASKED MIRPLEES MEET WITH SELF AND AMLASH/3

FOR EVENING DRINKS AS HAD SOMETHING OF INTFPESI TO REPORT. AFTER

NITIAL BANALITIES, ALASH/3, WHO DO"INATED MEET INC, ASKED NIRRLEES

HO! WOULD YOU LIKE MAXE $2099, DA OR MOPE A MONTH: HOW WOULD

YOU LIKE WORK FOR RUSSIANS?" WENT ON TO SAY THAT HE AND FRIENDS,

INCLING LSNAF /9, VERY DISILUGIONED WITH KUBARK AND ODYORE

NACTION PÈ PPRUMEN, AS OPPOSED SIRONG ODYOKE POSTURE IN VIET NAM

AND DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, AND HAD DECIDED ONLY HOPE FOR PROMEN WAS

FIGYT ENEMY WITH ENEMY'S QUA WEAPONS. AMLASH/3 STATED THAT HE,

INSNAFU/S AND SEVERAL OT HER "CHOSEN POPLE WILL RETURN TO PEPUMEN

AND WORK FOR PUSSIANS.

STATED HE WANTED MIRRLEES BE PUSSIAN CONTACT

SECREE.

---

## Page 2

$4-00000

SECRETS

IN 66569

Page l

JO MBFINCH PARI AND STATED COULD INTRCEUCE MRALEES TO, RUSSiAN

FOLLOWING DAY IF MIRRLEES WISHED. MIPALLES WOULD SERVE AS RUSSIAN

CONTACT IN HBFINCH PARI FOR AMLASH/S AND UNSNAFU/9 WHO WOULD. Bi

PBR UMEN.

:WHILE EXACT ROLE MIRRLEES :C PLA: IN THIS SCHEME LEFT UN-

•IT APPARENT THAT AMLASH/3 MEANS HE AND UINERS OF GROUP

AHO GO PER UMEN WILL OSTENSIBLY WORK FOR SOVS :PRESUMABLY AS

FENETRATIONS PBRUMEN GOVTS: WHILE ACTUALLY USiNG SOV FUNDS TO

ERTHROW AMTHUG AND COMMUNISM. AMSLASH/3 AND UNSNAFU/S VERY EMPHATIC

THAT ONLY HOPE FOR OVERTHROW. AMTKUG REGIME IS ELIMINATION AMTHUG

AND THAT ONLY AMLASH/I IN POSITION TO ACCOMPLISH THIS. AMLASH/3

STATED -THAT HIS PLAN HAD NO CONNECI ION WITH AMLASH/, PLANS BUT THAT

ALASH/3 AND UNSNAFU/S MUST DO SOMETHING ASSIST AMLASH/S AND FELT

OSTENSIBLE COOPERAT WITH SOVS WOULD HELP," "

.. 1:

AMLASH/3 AND UNSNAFU/9 VERY BITTER ABOUT

WHAT THEY CONSIDER

USELESS PBRUMENS SITTING IN MADR, SUCH AS SUSPORT/I, WHO TAKING

KUBARX- SALARIES WHILE DOING NOTHING. AMLASH/S, STATED HAD, HAD RECENT

VERY HEATED ARGUMENT WITH GROWERY THIS SUBECT. :!.

=5.

MIRRLEES BELIEVES DISCANTENT OF "ACTION- GROUP WHiCH SEEMS

INCLUDE AMLASH/1, AMLASH/3, AND NOW UNSNAFU/S CAME TO HEAD WITH

SECKLE.

but AMLASH-I

in for too

intelligent to ever dream rich.

a deal with the

to the Smith for for

y serialing.

---

## Page 3

7400000

SECKER

BO. UNSNAFU/S STATES 13 MAI INAi HUMORS LEDE MAN. dUN PEreTEN

13 MAY. IF THIS CONFIRMED PLAN HAVE MIMILEES Mi: iMin

SNAFU/S UNDER APPROPPIALE SAFEGUARDE AND AT:EMT: UBAL FUMINER

INFO.

UNSNAFU/S MAY NO! BELIEVE HAS CONFIDENT DESERTENS MITH

MIRRLEES AS CLOADEN HAS SAID NOTHING 0 iNSNiPUNd MAUDE DENT.

THUS, MAY BE ABLE MONITOR THIS SCAME LA MIRABLE MUTINO GUA

FLETE REPORT VIA OPFA- 79123.

SECRET

CFN

died Sea AS 90-400-1 Re Multiple

#DIASE AS TH

---

