104-10186-10184}

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘nts material comtatne infurnation atecting the National Defense of the United State within the meaatre of the Roewoase Lowe, Thue
In Une fecg, Mh and TM. the teemateice ef reveintira of whieh Ia any eanner (eam uneutborteed pateou te pranibtted ty la

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

country Cuba REPORT NO. CX1I-316/00728-65
susect fnu JOA (aka “Jordan") DATE DISTR, 16 February 1965
RETURN 70 cA ' NO. PAGES. 1 :
Background poly REFERENCES CS~311/00125-64 :
batt oF Do Not Rep S'stty d964:
1964
nace Narhington: Bi 2 : FIELD REPORT NO.

Ts 13 UNEVALUATED INIOWMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DUTINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 18 TENTATIVE

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service util April 1964.

Headquarters Comments :

The following report is one of a series containing personality 1
information provided by the source and includes supplemental :
information from the records of this Agency. . H

It 4s requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Fnu JOA, aka: "Jordan," is the Peruvian desk officer tn
the Seccion Sur (South American Section) cf the Departamento de
Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Department - LN) of
the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence ~ DGI).

2. JOA, a Caucasian, was born between 1940 and 1945, He 4s
five feet six inches tall, weighs 140 pounds, and has a thin
build. JOA earns about $240.00 per month,

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable
information on JOA.

SECRET - i
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
‘STATE To1a T xem Twavy Tain Trsa TXBX
REP CINCLANT ma INCSO # T&NS

Uiaitow y

_ E
roraee WH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 Q), cI 4, RIDL

19-S-1
