# 104-10256-10403

## Page 1

104-10256-10403

SENR WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND SITOM

~ASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL HOUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

TO

1

DUID

5

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

He astackied; Fys. There is an

victe up an douget attackies to this

Ze furthe, a kin is enter fate,

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

UNCLASSIFIED

ron yo 237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE

T/VsT7.3

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FROM:

INCIDENT KEPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

Administratro - Intenal Bee Only

DATE 14 October 1973

TIME_

1115

NAME Mitchell WerBell

GRADE N/A

OFFICE

N/A

INCIDENT Call requesting to speak

with Mr. Colby

_ TIME

1115

PLACE Powder Spring

Georgia

tel (404) 943-3533

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: The Agency Operator advised that Subject was

calling requesting to speak to Mc. Colby.

Subject stated that he had just finished talking to "Air Chief

Marshall, Dawnee," Bangkok, Thailand and had some information that

he wanted to pass to Mr. Colby. Subject was informed that the

Director was not available and that the undersigned would take a

message and insure that the Director was informed of his call.

Subject declined SDO's invitation to leave a message and requested

that the "Thai Desk" be informed of his call and then terminated

the call.

Files in SR&CD reflect that Subject is generally categorized as a

con man, unscrupulous, wheeler-deeler and a promoter of grandiose

schemes.

1500-73-1195 More-

11421, CHAN DESK,

000.5E005

ABOVE MIND

WAS FURNISHNO DUBTOLTS DOI FILED

(201-25-9910)

deside may Funnel perion by birco or sonin -

CASECLOSCO

ACTION TAKEN: Briefed

DCI/SS, and OPS CIR/D0. Custhur

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD SEC (PTOS

COPY: C/PHY. SD

COPY: C/PSD

ILE: BSB/PHYS. S

OPY: DCI/S

FORM 1798

fe-f-7

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CHIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

"Administative - Intertal Use Only

5/1.

---

