# 104-10227-10139

## Page 1

104-10227-10139

09/81-3 I.V2

27 October 1961

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH-

THROUGH:

Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT:

Draft Memorandum, dated 26. October

1961 (attached)

1.

I have no real quarrel with the attached document, but

I would hope that we would follow the realistic and specific

position adopted by Chief, WH-4 at the State Department meeting

on 2ó October. In other words, we have four major pointy

which need setking with Miro according to an agreed upon line.

In addition, we need to find out what othor complaints Miro hao

and try to work out solutions acceptable to both sides. Finally,

we must establish a working relationship between Wendell Johnson

and diro through which we can attempt to persuade Miro of the

need of reconstituting his efforts in order to undertake a more

constructive program thai his present purely administrative one.

In the meantime here in Washington we should be recxamining

the whole question of how to deal with Cuban exiles with the

thought that we may be able to present recommendationg for a

change in the present policy position. On this last point I have

talked to Sherman Kent's office and hope in the near future to

receive a report advising what the estimators think they can

contribute on these last issues. At that time we can also get a

time schedule.

2. I repeat, however, that for the moment let us

centrate on he major problems with Miro, eliminate the ambi-

guities which have existed between ourselves, State and the White

House and try to obtain Miro's confidence in order to be more

persuasive with him in the future.

A/DDP/A

Attachment

Drait Memo

Original & l - C/WH-4 w/Att

1 - C/WH w/o Att

---

## Page 2

E.?"

term/humofrilidius.on

lile diggi

let intenses idion d

, 138

DRAFT

I.. It is our feeling that le would be desirable to deal with one

representative of the Cuban exile movements and one repro

attier of the

• Cuban underground. • Need for coordination of activities alone makes this

logical However, we all recognize that both the exile movement and

the underground are badly split into factlons. It will be a continuous

struggle to achieve cooperation between these factions, and to achieve

complete unity as a practical political matter is not very realistic. Everi

within the Council, and within the FRD, there are elemente which will

cooperate with each other on some things and not on othere. The experience

with Justo CARRILLO and with Manolo RAY, among others, makes this amply

clear.

2. ACcordingly, as discussed by Dr. MIRO with Mr. HANLEY and

Mr. CLARK, in Baltimore In mid-September, there must be ther unifying and

coordinating factors than simply asserting the U. S. Government or some

one agency will lend support through the CRC, and anyone who wants funds

must go to the CRC. For example, it has linow become apparent that

the withdrawal of support from the AFJ, as requested by Dr. MIRO, has simply

meant that the AFJ has become vocally opposed to the CRC. The leverage

formerly exercised with the AFJ has now been removed, A' least tonig

we were fancy able to keep them from criticizing the CRC, roovoats.

3. We are sometimes dismayed to hear the charges made by Dr.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

..1

- 2 =

MIRO that we are not supporting him exclusively. We fecl that if we

withdrow support from some of the other groups, they would become

part of Dr. MIRO's opposition. At the same time, we are dismayed at

---

the charged made by Dr. MIRO'e opponents that, as in fact has been the case,

a very large proportion of the support for Cuban exile activities has been

given to him. The other groups claim, as he does, to have considerable

Influence over the underground and the exile community. They too have

contacts in the various Departments of the U. S. Government and in

businesa in the U. S. and abroad; and, as a long timo practical politician,

Dr. MIRO cannot be unawaro of the implications of thie situation.

4. We have, therefore, never agreed that tar it was feasibls to

adopt the highly unrealistic viow that exclusive support could be given to

the CRC, since some other groups a) probably would unite against the CRC,

b) could get support elsewhere, and, c) almost inder inevitably would

organize a significant anti-CRC movement.

5. We have, therefore, made it known to all groups inside and

outside that while we do not ineist (except in the case of the judges) on unifi-

cation and subordination to the CRC, we would prefer that they at least

coordinate with the Council, aal We have actively discouraged any criticiam

of the Council whenever we had an apportunity, federa.

6. Our position has been made difficult by the fact that Dr. MIRO

has stated or implied to representatives of the various factions that he has

high level U. S. Government sponsorheip and that the factions can in the

future only obtain support through him,

He has also asserted to U. S.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

officials that he has presented proposale for assisting the underground and

'for aiding the underground, to or ganize and has received no support from the

Agency, The Agency is aware.of the proposal to aid RAMIREZ, with whom at

the time it was proposed in Baltimire, Dr. Miro said he had no communica-

lion, line.

We still do not know whether there is a communicationa line,

other

or many of the detaile needed to ha aBBig RAMIREZ in the Escambray, I

De. Miro now has such details, he might pass it to Colonel Johnson at a

separale mecting. The Agency lo awaro of a pogposal for a 1, 000 man

invasion force properl which was refused by both State and the White House

before it was presented to the Agency, We see no purpose in commenting

further on that plan.

At such time as Dr. MIRO has specific plans for,

operations to aid the underground, he or his designee might desirer discuss

Bie.

them with Colonel Johnson.

7. We would like to point out that during the difficult months since

Arpil we have continued to urge the internal resistance groupe to organize.

in a truly underground manner, to establish lines of command and channele

of communications, and to look ts the CRC for guidance. We know that in a

number of instances the external representatives have sought to obtain

guidance from the CRC only after our urging, them thieta. We would hope that

Dr. MIRO will be frank enough to recognize these contacts, and the fact that

shri thene contacts ha haa been generally informed onthelor ganizational

activity in Cuba.

8. We would like to make special note for Dor. MIRO that we are

SECHAT

---

## Page 5

not engaged in another invasion attempt, are not training Cubans for

an invasion, and, therefore, cannot keep him informed on any such

activity.

9. We would like to point out that Dr. MIRO has been in frequent

contact during the past few monthe with the Department of States represen-

tatives and has, as directed by the White Hquee, taken his guidance from

the State Department. He has rarely sought guidance or even utilized

as a channel his contact with the Agency which has been continuously .

available. Many times it has been impossible to reach Dr. MIRO for ua

to arrange a meeting because he, according to ARAGON, was either ill,

on a trip, or preparing for an interview with the State Department or the

White House.

10. It is also worth mentioning that, as Dr. MIRO himself stated

in various meetings, it is for security reasons neither possible or

desirable to keep Dr. MIRO informed in detail of our activities affecting

Cuba or at times certain Cuban exiles residing in this country at ander our

protection.

11. We have long felt there are certain aspecte of our work which

could have been done by the Frente, but because of lack of interest or

leadership on the part of some, the Frente took the credit, but did little.

We refer here specifically to propaganda.

We feel that if the opposition to

the CRC among the student and labor groups calld be overcome, some very

useful work could be done. We would point out that much of the DRE and

SECHET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

- 5 -

FORD activities have been done with modest, and frequently without

any, financial support:

We feel that ideas, organization and persone

with talent are much more important in these areas than money. We

would like to urge oncong ain that the FRD and the CRC take practical

steps to work with the people in the DRE and the FORD. We certainly do

not want to see the energies of these groups dissipated as has so clearly

occured in the case of the jurists.

12. We renew our proposal once again that Dr. MIRO have his

people come up with some propaganda ideas and plans with or without

DRE and FORD type participation and we will give them our most sympathetic

consideration

131 Despite our misgivings as to the utility of the further support

of the judiciary groupe, we understand a commitment has been made to

again advance Dr. MIRO $5, 000 for the judges and we are honoring thie

commitment.

---

