104-10246-10037

| ovscanetoctrteestaiet Pye

.

mrpdlosaiasssttaabiaia

Joy Quusrin osx
aa nae te

Tow

Chief of Station, Paris aes

“S"ShyPIC YOBITE AMLASH AMMORLD - Transmittal of Letter
TET CRORES. REFOROES

J ACTION: For Your Information PRIORITY

sccrorm

Transmitted under separate cover is a note written by AMLASH/1 to
UNSNAPU/9 and addressed to UNSNAFU/13, The note vas enclosed in an envelope
with two other pieces of paper, the latter retained by USSNAFU/9 as personal
correspondence, Also transmitted under’ separate cover are Xeraxed copies of
the envelope in which the note was sent, The note is being transmitted by

priority dispatch for possible Sd contents, re oe
~\ tule Vhde,

PAUIA S. MIRALEES

Attachment: U/s/¢
Note and Xeroxed copies of envelope

Ee = DC;WHASA w/att
3 + Chief, WB w/o att

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

— . "5 00PY
COPRTN SOR AND MONEER
O?PA-79840 13 June 1965
essen SMILED | PORREMAS
SECHET/RYBAT 201-252234

ote aaa S16 99



I.
i
!
|
|

A
i
i
i
:
i
i
H
{
!
i
:
i
i

* , Your situation well enough (or,

they had sent

I should de happy to hear fron
“EL loco" Alverte arris

that's the way he is,

(2 nickname for UNSNAFU/¢)

(He also said) that you both ean cone back wherever you want to, to your country,

ved two dazs ago, to ever

lage % afl

boa a cage f&
El) Leeo's
Ustrer undated)

hae

(29 June 1965 ~ translation)

Today I spoke to a friend in tne cAnistry of Foreign Relations, He explained

it may be, correctly enough): he told me that

to anyone

Your Cuban passports back, sovething that has never beon done/before,

This made me very happy because your situation has been coupletely clarified,
Jou ad scon as you receive this letter,

‘yonets surprise, tut goodness,

It seezs that he was nostalgic for his country,

er was delayed a long tine in reachin
(or Czec!
(his return) a Jong time here ~ because the CHEKA/scares him,

Slovalde hal LA Ae ee

Best, Rolando

ot



WIR MAIL
oe PAR AVION

. . Faance oo

‘Wryme ‘

‘

2.0,Qve. De Ye Macvear
Paas \a*

f 7 : . - : ‘ ‘vie
EMiLITA 'Otego: *

1
_



Vocelwva 2

Caagr & oo
yo corhvag--s ‘



sw hpe Ge

SOL oe. ial oF

OFrA- W9EYO, Fe LAG

OFEA- 9093: ee ane Hed ao aus a

| iz
CHE - W¥2, $f tapas 96 a. HE ak f cig

jana 793 5b,

» aad

Bees faa

joel. 1. DS 906 sir ffen ts 6 KILO Cte |)”
Ate De |

\OLLA CEES fiiua_ bP, Cth-ey Able! 24

—— fe. Mistece cane eee

La eat

OCA CP SUC Saet &,. FAS Mean,

eee ia


fol. SLRS — ge 2 __]

On 67376, ( bef E2 SER wo Ayan

i
i
1
ihe

Ano. 385, 2,6 fpuvs h | SET

Dates

EU TIS, Lapin, SENT FOR MIRC fs

aii Date 2a

6 CNT FOR MICK LAD
Dr P5490, PE ae 200 fef r

