eee RETURN TO CIA
a Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

}p Bey by Se

18r =o 7 October 1960

1. Forvarded herevith 1s « picture of MANKEL. Although the picture vas
taken in 1957, he looks today exactly as he did then, with the exception of a
fow less hairs on the top of his head. Description: 42 years old, apparent age
45, height 6 ft. 1 in., thin build, heir dark brown, large ears, right ear lobe
bas distinct inverted-v cut; above his left eyebrow is a permanent lump (does not
show on the attached picture), large enough go that 1t cannot be cverlooked;

_ walks vith head and shoulders bent slightly forverd; speaks Gernan and French
fluently and can pass as a native of:Frances on a scale of excellent, very good,
good, fair, poor, his English is rated good. If English is used with him, it
should be spoken slowly and med choosing words which leave no doubt as
to what 1s meant.

2. MANKEL was mot in teats yby RAENEY and Elliott $. JOUVENOY, Cos,
Luxenbourg, on 19 and 20 October. 234 hed not been recetved in
by the time of RASMET's departure from there for Lureatourg, but arrangenants
were made to have it relayed to Luxembourg, and JOUVENOY has confirmed his
receipt of it. The following sub-aragrapks provide the substance of the
meetings vith MANKEL:

4. In view of the extreme sensitivity of the objective for which ve
want him to perfora his task, he was not told precisely what ve vast biz to do.
Instead, ke vas told that ve have evidence of Soviet operations among natiorality
groups in Africa, specifically, Corsicans, and that we vould like to have him
spot, assess, and recommend sone dependable, quick-witted persons for our use.
(Comment: It vas thought best to withhold our true, specific requirements pending
the final decision to use MANKEL.) He agreed to go on the trip for us.

b. Regarding cover for the trip, MANKEL suggested that he travel
salesman for a German firm producing coin-operated aoft-drink, coffee, etc.,
sachines. He already had a brochure from this company and stated that be ccnld
easily obtain an authenticating to-whom-it-may-concern letter from the owner. The
firm is SCHWBLMER RISENWERK, MUELLER AND CO., GMBH, SCHWELM, WESTFALIA; the over

SECRET

Se =
FI/D/oPS

De-Wz 1910's



!
i
{
'
!
i
i
i
‘

~ :

Tae TRENT
CONTINUATION OF,
OISPATCH

unless ba runs into obstacles clearly requiring diacussion or seoes danger to

_ please cable to Ly ae)
4. Reference paragraph &, [Atti [234: MAMKEL should be briefed on all the
eub-paragraphy, but should be ncentrate firat on sub-paragraph a, rather
than dilute his effort. Unles tation objects, in-which case please ceble
to Luxembourg with reasons, the of MANKEL should include the parenthetical

sar

ie Erich 21@ERUMN, vho 1s asserted by MAIKEL to be a frient. (Comments Bas.
traces have been run on the firm and the ovnar, with negative resulta.)

¢. MAUEEL stated that in dealing with Corsicans it is somtimes ed-
visable to give « Corsican as a reference. If he finds this adviseble or neces-
sary, his reference vill be Jacques SANTELLI, 75, Blvd. Auguste Blanque, Parte.
(Comments Eqs. traces have been run on SASYELLI with negative results.

a. : Since MANKEL 1s known to the Surets in Paris because of his assis-
tance to the U.S. Bureau of Harcotics, he vas told to obtain visas for his trip
in Gersany. His passport ves reviewed, and there appeared to be no objection to
his nsing it for the upooming trip. :

e, He yan told vhst imumisation shots end malaria suppressive he
will need and was ¢iven funds to obtain thea. : 3

a f. Be vas toid that éontect with an American would be available at
hig destinstion im case he needs it. (Comment: Paras. 2 and 3 of GUDk]234 take
care of this for JOUVEHOI's briefing purposes.) He was pot told that person
meoting Nia would be frog the American Eabassy, nor should be be told this.
2H, 12)

ve

3. JOUVENOY the sane briefing concerning our purposes as he
hea given Hotes vere left with JCUVEBOY for his use in oriefing
MARESL spec! types ve vant MANKEL to find for us. Those notes,

plus ‘AUDA 234 provide JOUVENOY vith most of the information necessary for MANKEL's
final briefings the only otber Information anf astion necossary at this tine ares

8. On receipt of this dispatch cable Luxenbourg the alias
to be used by CRICKAAD if she moots MANKEL.

b. Luxembourg to include in the briefing to HANKEL the statement that
df CRICKARD wants to get bold of him, she will telephone him between 0830 and 0900
hours or betveen 2700 and 1730 hours at bis hotel, Le Crpix du Sud, vill give bin
her alias, and. will say, “Brigitte wrote to se that you would oe here and asked
ze to show you eround.® MASKEL vill reply with a statenont of appreciation. He
should be told in Laxembourg that if be receives’ such a call, he will aset
CAICKARD per sub-paragraph p, paragraph 2[4DA)234. On receiving the call, he
should imesdiately suspend his search activity ontil told by CRICKARD to resuas
it. Ye to be incloded in his briefing in anticipation of the possibi~
ity tha! cation may pick up information affecting MAMKEL during his stay
Police inquiry. It should be stressed to MANKEL during his briefing
% he should not seek contact with us por paragraph 2*fAvDi)234

hiaself or his mission or hse something to report which carnot avait bis return
to Luxesbourg. We will not contact his unless we pick up cosething affecting
him or bis mission.

©. MANXEL should be told to epend sone tise actually trying to sell
the coin-cparated machine pormal first stop would be his contacting the Dakar
Chanber of Commerce. If tation has any particular guidense in this reapect,

note in sub-paragraph 0, since this will permit hiak to take precsutionsry reasures
in dealing with these types. We crefer that after be has explored the possibili-
ties offered by sub-paragraph a, he explore those offered by sub-paragraph d.
Sub-paregraphs b and c should be considered last resorts. Although he vill be
avare of it from his own normal activity, MASKEL should be spocifically told to

be alert to the fact that the circles in which he vill be dealirg are usually
eeded vith police informants ani that ve vant bia to axarcise eaximin caution. ,
He should also ba told that wo do not consider this a rissioa vhich can be extiuitA
ad infinitum. If he is not able to find the types ve vart ari arrange future :
contact (recognition signals, etc.) vithin two weeks, arproxizately, it {a unlikely
that additional tise will gst hia angvhere, although ue bars en open aind on this
cofnt. We do rot want his to feel that he mst return with success; if he cannot


ten e ei
| CONTINUATION OF i a
DISPATCH : : secReRcl

we will look elsevhere. (The operation vo have
to risk blowing it is this phase, and the eearch for
asects mst be conducted with ircly ainisia risk.) i

JOUVENOY ig authorised te provide MANKEL with funda for travel, $400
for ving ‘in Daxar (20 diiys at $20 per day), and $300 for operations]
‘expenses. T/A this total to Eqe., citing Cost Center 1123-1003-1000 and cite this
Aiepatoh es authority, (On his return be need subnit only the airline ticket stub,

. hotel bills, for the $300 operational expenses anly. These should
be sant te KUTUBE/D only.) If tie needs more funds in Dekar, be can obtain then
there from CRICHARD. Hia travel reservations should be made from Frankfurt, but
under no circumstances froa Lunesbocrg or Paris. JOUVEHOY 1s authorised to give
his mney for travel to Frankfurt for this purpose. (We will decide on his return

. how much to pay him for his tise on tke mission.) - ;

6. . If there are any qestiors on the pert of| Loxembourg, please
cable to each other, with info to Hos., or to qs. with info to the other station,
Cables should refer to this dispatch and be slugged RYBAT LAURICLE ERACORN.

7.  For| In view of the fact that the cover installation is not
guarded during off-duty hsure, this dispatch should be reduced to cryptic neces~
sary notes ami destroyed efter the first reading. MANFEL's picture and ell cable
traffic, as voll as your copies of @UDAI2%4, should aleo be destroyed as soon as
no longer needed. Neoessary notes, 1.0/,%on arrangements for oontects, and MANKEL's)
pictore, until the first ccntact, ahould be sealed in such a vay thet any tazpering
W111 be immediately evident.

DANIEL M. PRESLAND

Attachment
Photo, as stated, 1 cy

Distributions j2- (0
1-63, | w/attachnent a/s

1-cos t w/o attacknant
2-71/b/opa fib

