104-10063-10324

S$ ECR ET 301726ZSSEP 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 12724
INFO DIRECTOR

| te 495626, /

1. STATION NTAMI Has BEEN TRYING UNSUCCESSFULLY FOR MANY

WEEKS 10 IDENTIFY WHAT MAY BE TWO CUBAN ILLEGALS RESIDENT

IW THE UNITED STATES (NEW YORK, WASHINGTON AREA AND/OR MIAMI).
THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AS FNUQUESADA
#< povall AND FNU CE P E DA. (QQYSAGE-1 ALLEGEDLY HAS HAD DIRECT

‘CONTACT WITH QUESADA ROMAN BUT SEEMS KNOW LITTLE ABOUT DEPEDA.

5 ve ARE 96 PERCENT SURE THAT THE NAME QUESADA ROMAN IS AN ALIAS, AND
CEPEDA BEING AS COMMON AS IT IS LEAVES US NOWHERE. THERE IS

REASOW T 70 BELIEVE THAT @sack- 1 KNOWS THE arufpentity OF

QUESADA, BUT SHE HAS REFUSED TO TELL US AND ADDITIONALLY HAS

“PROVIDED CONFUSING AS WELL. AS CONFLICTING INFORMATION ON HIM.
“SORTING OUT (YEAGE-1'S STATEMENTS ON QUESADA, WE BELIEVE SOME
OF THE FOLLOWING MAY BE TRUE. ~°TO‘WIT: _

A. HE IS 35-49 YEARS OF AGE; DARK HAIRT’ WHITE

-

SKIN, SLIM BUT STRONG BUILD, HEIGHT APPARENTLY

5 FEET 8 TO IG INCHES (APPROX). MAY HAVE A BIRTHMARK 03 (leas
OR SCAR ON UPPER LEFT SIDE FOREHEAD, ON RIGHT SIDE

SECRET


14-00000

SE chi a
(When Fitted In)

—_—— oe

ov AT

Poe ETERS IO SS

PAGE 2 WHA AN lziea s E c R (it Basser

oF NECK nD ‘SMALL BLUE DISCOLORATIONS OR SCARS
i RESULTING FROM EXPLOSI OW oF A DEMMLITION DEVICE

IN VENEZUELA. ‘a SADA ALLEGEDLY ‘A SABOTAGE

& DEMOLITION EXPERT anton OTHER THINGS. WAS acTIvVE me = 7

SOMETIME DURING - 6B IN SABOTAGE VENEZUELAN OIL
FIELDS. DURING OWE OPERATION THERE WAS PREMATURE.

EXPLOSION OF DEMOLITION DEVICE WHICH PLANTED

SHRAPNEL FRAGMENTS. IN HIS NECK WHICH STILL WORK TO THE SURFACE FROM
TIME TO TIME AND ARE, EXTRACTED . i
B. “HE ALLEGEDLY SERVED IN MEXICO SOMETIME

: DURING THE PERIOD 63-66 AND MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE

BEEN IN THE EMBASSY. HE WAS DESCRIBED BY @¥sace- 1

AS A SPECIALIST PROBABLY IN SABOTAGE, EXECUTIVE

“ACTION, £TC., BUT ALSO, COULD BE A SPECIALIST VIS

> A VIS THE “AWERICAN DEPARTMENT.” HE ALSO ALLEGEDLY See
"TRAVELLED TO PANAWA EIGHER LATE 63 OR EARLY ‘64

; 1 : THE PANAMA RIOTS... THIS. COULD

AROUND THE: TIME

WEAN THAT HE MIGHT HAVE BEEN CONNECTED WITH RICO
GAL AN NOW SERVIRG A PRISON SENTENCE IN MEXICO.
: sack - ‘T ALSO TOSSED THE WaR ‘wates OSCAR AND GABRIEL



14-00000

“SECHET,
‘When pad In)

Zz

Dissen, py_____ pen__#.

*ReTiON UNIT = + : sits
e [i] FILE, VR i ;

ace eT i: ——--

i
= -PAGE 3 WH/MIAMI 12724 S_E c RET
t

‘i AROUND AS RELATING TO THIS PERSON, BUT WE BELIEVE
THIS MAY BE SNOW. THERE IS SOME REASON TO BELIEVE

THE PERSON SHE DISCUSSED MAY BE ROGELIOR ODRI -

6 UE Z LOPEZ ae SERVED IN MEXICO CITY DURING .
“THAT PERIOD AND SPECIALIZED ON CENTRAL AMERICA.
" gDDRESSEES WILL PROBABLY REMBER THAT ROGELIO
‘i RODRIGUEZ, WHO LNERGO DESCRIBES AS A HIGHLY COMPETENT
“< AND DANGEROUS CASE OFFICER, WAS PNGED OUT OF NEW

“YORK SOMETIME aco IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOUTH AFRICAN

_ GIRL WHO WAS REPORTING ON THE DIPLOMATIC coLowy IN
nt ‘WASHINGTON.. STATION MIAMI ALSO ‘NOTES THAT ABELARDO
© UR BELO PARDON SERVED IN wexich ABOUT THE :
Me SAME TIME.
ee C. RE VENEZUELA: fG8SAGE-1 DESCRIBES HIM ONLY

Be AS HAVING LIVED AS AN ILLEGAL IN VENEZUELA =

SHE HAS SUGGESTED THAT HE WAS THERE DURING THE
MOST ACTIVE PERIOD OF SABOTAGE, WHICH SHE RECALLS

WASH DURING THE EARLY 69S. THIS MAY OR MAY NOT BE



14-00000

SECREF
then Filled fa) “es

Eiaes

*
_astisczecor™ []rseeto

PAGE 4 WH/MIAMI 12724 S ECRET

TRUE. THE PERSON IN QUESTION COULD JUST AS EASILY
HAVE BEEN CONNECTED WITH THE BRAVO GROUP IN LATE 62S.
MIAMI'S RECORDS OF SABOTAGE OPERATIONS IN VENEZUELA
PRIOR TO 1968 ARE INCOMPLETE. CARACAS, THEREFORE,
MAY BE ABLE TO ISOLATE TWO OR THREE PERSONS WHO
FIT THIS GENERAL CRITERIA FOR FURTHER INVESTIGATION.
: De GRSAGE-1 ALLEGES THAT QUESADA WAS IN NEW
YORK CITY AREA AND MET WITH HER DURING THE WEEK OF

13 SEPTEMBER. JF THIS ACTUALLY HAPPENED, IT MIGHT
ELIMINATE ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ: (DEPENDING UPON HIS

| PRESENT WHEREABOUTS) AS A PRIME CANDIDATE.

FOR HEADQUARTERS: STATION MIAMI WOULD APPRECIATE 4
RECEIVING PICTURES OF THE CUBAN COUNTER-SURVEILLANCE
PERSON WHO APPARENTLY COVERED GYSAGE-1 DURING THE
PERIOD SHE DELIVERED A LETTER T0 PONCHAYS

HOTEL, BELIEVE BOTH HEADQUARTERS ‘AND MIAMI SHOULD
STUDY HIM-AGAINST THE MUG BOOK.

3. REALIZE THE FOREGOING IS MOST TENUOUS AND INCOMPLETE.
WILL APPRECIATE, al ANY ASSISTANCE YOU CAN GIVE US IN
”. THIs IDENTIFICATION. eS eeeereenas :

“4c FILE: 208~6-447/33 a. GPL

: foe SECRRY
SECRET
