ro4-10769-10134

as of April 1961.

Qn 28 December 1961, AKLADLE was shown a collection of
photegrar.s of Soviet officials assigned im the Dnited Kingdoa.
‘The collection contained photographs identified only by a nuaber
Keyed to a list of ideatities which was not shown to him. Frea
the collection of ever 250 photegraphs, AELADLE recognized and
commznted on nine individuals, ado tt listed in attach-
went, way be passed te [i and [J R.) (Information in right
columm of *.ttacheent coues-froa Headquarters’ files.)

i: RECORDS OFFICER STANB
‘The following action is *”
euthorizod: is

Attachusnt: 4s stated abeve

Kote: ir destruntion, cite

reasons and coordinate
Pie ieeeoe ‘v/attach use. le Af appropriete,

z ‘COORDINATING
SCs |

Hee i i
prsn/er re fatsnon C/SR Fo Z
3.4H/8 e/attcon > | avey were wre ft
sera ae pee
alee OTE

eae



R20 Comments:

1
: &) Photo #28 ~ wame unknown,
{ but he is in intelligence

b) "Photo #40 ~ Face is familiar,
He way be in intelligence,

©) Photo #98 - Face is familiar.
Probably in intelligence,

4) Photo #119 - Face im famtiter,
Reminds Source of one Ley LEBEDEV”
 & fellow student at the age of
about 15. source would like to
knoz the identity of Photo #119,

SECRET

i a
1 fat /~ oe L0-/9375— BS CO

Fara

Pp ber f . Assigned
to the Soviet Mission to the: UN
in New York between December 1954
and August 1958, Photo identifie
by both DERYABIN and RASTVOROV
a8 connected with intellisence,
Identified while in the U.8, dy.
the FBI ae a known intelli

efficer, probably GRU. He was
Bot declared PNG by the U.8,
Government, but in Ww: y 1959 an

stating th
the 0.8. Governnent did not vant
bie in the U.8. again, Assigned
to the Soviet Embassy in Longon ’
@8 a 3nd Secretary in April |

ya
pitotey Dani lovich DUNKOV i
“Born 36 Oatober 1526. poor- j
keeper at the Bovie Eabassy ip /
London between 1954 and 1957,
Identified by DERYABIN an an
officer in the Foreign Intelli-
gence Directorate connected with
either the Technical or Code i
Section some tive in 1952 or :
1983, Assigned to the Boviet :
Bebassy in London as a clerk .

duly 19646. a

Geigoriy rvtrovion ‘coneov i

ra ‘uary 1918. Traveled
Only once as = “diplomatic courgy
in the spring of 1986 to Canada!
Mexico and the U.8. Recorded
88 "probably KG3" and not a gen-
Dine courier. Assigned to the
Boviet Rabassy in London as a
Clerk in May 1960,

eee

Lev Yakovlev: om ann oad

ry tol 1926.  Aneigned |
to the Soviet Trade. Delegation
4n London as an engineer in
January 1961. No other Anfor.
Bation,

pS

Bol- OVI7ES |



pyrene cee tt

ep en A I AS

oo SECRET

6) Photo #130 - Face is familiar.
‘Gio other comment).

Control Commi
1950 and 1954. icted as interpreter
at the 1955 Summit Conferenc:
the 1957 8Buez Canal Conferenc:
Recorded as a suspect intelligence
officer, probably KGB, Assigned
to the Soviet Embassy in London
as a 2nd Secretary in June 1957.

(ane a
2) Photo #138 - Probably in Vladimir Augustovich MEDNIS, ty
intelligence. dl Born 22 Januzry 1931. Kasigned to

the Soviet Consulate in London j
es a clerk in July 1959. No ;
otber information. —— i

a) Photo #149 - Probably fe —Yexgeniy_Mikbailo oviehY MURABHEY.. H
Adntelligence. Born 18 August 1925. Assigned as *
&@ Srd Secretar; on TDY at the ;
. Boviet Embassy in London in the
’ ms) : @ummer of 1956 who returned in
A) the fall on POS. Handles cultural
a affairs.’ Recorded as “suspect i
ge yt tt kos," $
h) Photo #221 - Sn-iInteiligence, natantin. Nikolayevich f
~ grobablz.0a8,~ ing BUKHORUCHEIN. Born 23 August 1918,
“Counodore. Naval Attache in the
Hotherlands from December 1954 to
early 1958, Recorded as "known
w’. GRU.Dt Assigned as tho Naval
Attache in London in December 1959, |

aan

e_—
4) Photo #224 - A code clerk. Source _Daitriy Semenovich BULTANOY..
had a meeting with him ‘1 Moscow Bora 1 ‘August 1918, - Assigned to '
or in Austria about 10 or 12 the the Bovist Eabassy in London

8
years ago, . & cipher clerk in April 1959. Mo -
7 other information. H

