# 104-10100-10225

## Page 1

104-10100-10225

= 2)

MESSAG

101.1

D NO

DAIE :

18 00r6

TO : BOOK MIAMCH AB BELOW

: FROM: TIRECTOR

co: in, di

INER. CB E, CAlARDO, FO! A. FIlINTE

BOOTI ME:

DER ME CETE

•, d

t, it'

GIlE LAR

76218

24

1. CONGO: //CUMRIT POLIXICAL MAMBUVINTIRE WITH THE CONCO

•VINOOY ANTIRE SO SINISTAN INS IT CUNTY IN SUN BANNENADO AS

SOME ON ADOULA'D MINAT HE AND PONIES CANINE APPOINTES LAVE

TO KARACE THE PIANOT CONSINIST, jOCOMOTIO TO CLATORAZINE SOURCIA.

THE CONUT IS TO BE HAD UY MIER O DI

ANANT, AND INCLIDES JUPTICE MINISTER DOUBORO, BUANTS CALLS NORAXA;

DOCUTET TO PUBIDIAT CARAVURE FOR A BIGNITURE TODAY.

MAS ERUP, WHICH IS GENERALLY NESTERN ORITO, 18 TORRIED

BY THI STEPPED UP ACTIVITIES ON THE LITREE LINTIET NATIONALIATE,

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN TÜR ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED..

bose

---

## Page 2

LISTED MESSAGE

SECRE.

ROUTING

14!

EXT

DA::

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONt:

INFO:

TO

DEFERRiD

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

SAVE ALSO LONO BIRA CORCERATO VITH IZ LACILUSTER LADERAHIS AID

SIDICIRIVEURED OF ADOULA,

tickle o

A CUTE GIORAL MORUTO XAT BE, CONDUCTR VIA IN GIOUR ONE

AT LEABI. INT DICITIA BUPPORT ITS AIRS, MONTY MAS RECHARIS RE

COME SRANTS CRITICAL OR ADOCEA./

8... MOROSCO-LOTIZA,. ALETATA INS AMOUNCKD INE. MOBILIZA-

TOI @ ALL TORR VIGHTING MEI AB SKIRIBHKS ALCID THE UNDEFINED

DORDER ALTA CONTINUE.

PROBA STORIES THAT TIR AREA ON FIGHTINS HAS ILANAID BEYORD

1 ЩО І ОПУРОСТУ О! Х НАТВІ ПЕТА АЛО ПІНРОВ АО НИТ 2, 500

MOROCHAN TROOPS ARE INCAGO ARE STLES INCONVERIND, ALGERIAN AIR

STRIKI SORR 160 MILES TO MANTIDANT REPORTAO IN PRESS ON 16 OFT.

I KI AN I ORTOLL SAI HAVE ITALISID TUEE

HRADQUANTERS AT MARRAKICH, INGOUNITS, 35 MILES MONTH ON TINJOUB,

IN ADDITION, AN ALKIT IS BRING MAINTANED ALONG LIE HASTIAN

MOON ON TA ALONEAN

ANY HAS AKKY IXINPORCINO ITS BORDER UNITS IN THE MANIA-LOCKI

• COONDINATINELOEF

8 1C

sorte

COUCTION: BX OTHER THAN THENSSUING OFFICES PROHIBITED! AN

---

## Page 3

CEMGSTFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

7T

-ic.

-J-

= 76219

AREA.

BEN BEALA'S ENVOYS ARRIVED IN MARRAKECH 15 OCT FOR TALES WITH

MOROCCAN OFFICIALS, MHICH REPORTEDLY DID NOT GO VELL.

3. TURKEY: THE INONU GOVERNIKIT HAS INDICATED TAT IT VILI

KXTEND MARTIAL LAW FOR TWO ADDITIONAL MONTAS, PRISUIABLY BECAUSE

O CONTINUING UNSETTLED POLITICAL CONDITIONS, THIS WILL BE THE

THIRD EXTINSION SINCE THE ABORTIVE MILITARY COUP OF LAST MAX.

REGIORAL AND LOCAL BLECTIONS SCHEDULED FOR 17 MOVE BER MAY NOT BE

POSTPONED. (CONF)

4. FRANCE-IRAN: PRINE MINISTER ALAM EXPECTE DI GULLE TO

OVER IRAN ICONCIC ASSISTANCE, PRIMARILY CHEDITE FOR THE PETRO

CHENICAL INDUSTRY AND ELECTRIPICATION, DURING A FOUR-DAY TIBIT I O

IRAN WHICH BEGINS TODAY. ALAN DID NOT SPECIFY THR AMOUNT OF THE

CREDIT. FRENCH SOURCES DESCRIEE THE VISIST AS BLANGELY CEREMONIAL,

ALTHOUGH DE GAULLE "ILL

AR A MAJOR ADDRESS TO A JOIRT SESSION

OF THE IRANIAN PARLIAMENT TOMORROE. (CONT)

ENDOR MESSAGE

147:8

donates

REPRODUCHICH AN OUR NA

CArING

Copy Na.

---

