# 104-10218-10006

## Page 1

104-10218-10006

DISPATCH

CLASS FICATIAN

SECRET

1O

Chief of station, WAVE

richiel,

Chiel,

ks

CHIeF, J.DFLP

FROM

kE

Chief 08 Eration

COrITY/. In/Operations Interrogation of Cuben Feracere

AT FIG REQUIRED

HiSEPENSES

RI7 8

1600, 5 Burust 1062

PRO

POSED

PROCESSING

ASTION

BLADIES FOR MOSCE

нО ПОСИВ, ВідТ

Bitted CERS DESI

CAN ROCK INCISE

Attachmet A, forwarded herevith, 10 a VAZALl tranelation of to TALlI

Interroration of Darious Antonio Felix ELOTRA end John ICCE.

The repert was receives

STon WInI, uho asturlly did the questioning.

received fIGa VIDYA, are foruarded as Attactment a teresita.

a When handingl

These doeteble, MAIT/d said that nomp of the

inforsation in the interroration report ves purgorely distorted, probably to protect

the lentent action of the VILIts in uttera concernine the Festival eod couto

cotivity. Tha only estant coples of this report are la the VALDI Illes.

WILTER E CATCHIL

Attachments:

Interrogation report

Do Fassport coples

Distributions

w/atte, apos alacle copy eeca

2 - VE, s/atto a (inclading osle, Pilat-leaguago veralon), aimede copy

MICROFILMED

AUG 8 8 1952

DOC, MICRO, SER

ES COPY

20121 - 22/3.

CORES ENERGE TO

• 200-124-12263

1:15'

28-2-4/3

DATE TYPE

DATE.

DESPATDHCD

I5 August 62, 17 Barust 62

DISPRTCH SYNSOL AYD MUNDEN

0TEL5970

Koch-Gene

---

## Page 2

SECRET

country:

FINLAND

Subject:

ANTI-FESTIVAL ACTIVITY EY THO CUEAN REFUGEES

Date:

c10 AUgUBE 1952.

At 1800 houre on fundey, 29 July 1962, a procersion cosposed

of various nationalitles ettending the horld Youth and Student VEII

Peace and Friendebip Festival wae enroute to the Clyaple Stcaium

alone :annerhelnintle. he 1t passed the :annerhe1-intle- Pohjole

Reutatlekatu Intersection, etudents Enrique Antonio Fella Eeloyra

and John Koch, Cuten refugees living in the USh, vere standing on

the top of a folkeragen. They ebouted souething at the proceseion

and ofened up a wilte banner (about 7f by 4 feet) on which the

following text was written in Spanish, French and English:.

D. R. E.

LIBERTAD 15,000 JoveneS preos CUBA

LIBEREZ

15,000 Jeunes ErlEonniere CUBA

Free the 15,000 youth in Jail in CUSA

because It was suepected that the conduct of felojre and Koch

right lead to on incident Involving then and the featival procescion;

they were taken by police to the Kelsinks Cribinal Police Lepart-

nent where their banner has conflecates.

Ins pec-

tor of the Criminal Police Departuent, lade a, prelliinary Inter-

rogation at thich teloyra and Roch said they they had cose to Fin-

"land on 26 Jul E2 (Ble) Nith the intention of rating contact with

i the Cuban youth at the festival and to ask then about current ton-

d1t10n8 1n Cuba, With this in wind, thes painted the above text.

on a white sbeet with black paint a their (elo) quartere in the

Klaus Kurki Hotel, meaning 1t to be seen by the Cutan Festigel

s particlpents when displayed.

...A

Crisinal Folice Survelllence

Offleef fave the

inderaigned an order on 1 due sa to interrogate

---

## Page 3

•Felogra and Koch.

The Interrogation tock place on 2 Aug E2, with

as ercceletor and

6.s wilheBB, and ras recorded as follows:

student Enrique Antondo FelixEelosTa, silizendoricuke and

now a refugee in the ush, declared shat he ves korn oble lue 42

In liaranna, Gute, and that ho now lives perzanently a 1528 south

no had lived ln cabe, for parented

here lee R

university student, and 1n Cuba ves studyies to be an eloctrical

engineer®

His father vas arrested in 1960 for political reasone

but had told his son before arrest to get a peesport and eet out

of the country at the firat opportunity. Errique Delogra applied

for and rocoired a passport brough the "Inister of Internal hi-

fairs. He now bes a Cuban passport, number 24192/1.6.1950. He

had made contact with the English E-bassy 1a Havanna and had made

the acquaintance of an official in it When he left taranna o

10 Sep E2 OR 8 PAL-AIerICAR

Airways plane, the first stamp was put

Into ble passport on page 81r. The English E-bassy official thom

Lelogra knew vas also on the plane to help Felojra 'if any diffl

culty arose in departure. The reason Belogra did not leave ear-

Ile de that an Intell we expected at any nonent tillai

he turned binself over to the Anerican authorities and applied for

& residence per-lt. There 18 a residence peralt staiped on pege

•seven of his pareport and 1l 18, dated 9 Oct El. Felosta could ior

continue his studies In the USA due to finencial diffIculties. Fe

"took a job as a kle of gulda or sunctionary du the service of the

•cuban resuree preeniiatio, trere. Ble furetion ves in recelve sne

---

## Page 4

202-799

dietribute ald chipuente at a school where there vere sany h

children of cuban refugees.; In the USA he belonged to a club of

cutan refugee siudente. About tro veere before his arrival in

I''nland he vas in this club. They had heard that the Conceniet

countries vere preparing the Festival In Finland and they legen

to discuss Inst anti-castro enlightensent activity ought to bo

undertaken esong the verlous Feetival youth delegatione, perticu

New, Jarly the Cuban one, by salthe fe known to then how many Curen

jouth and students are in cuban prison.

They here sure than the

people of Cuba were not aware of these things. There were fi

nencial difficultles 1a gotting started, but aftor 1t vas arranged

for belogra to pay 50p now and 50% later in Inetalluente (custorary

there, the satter was settled. reloyra had had $500.00 in the tank

ard he used this as the down pasment, the total cout being about

€1200.00. His laot paycheck" gave bim $400.00 for pending, era be

nor has 1242.00 left.

For his enlightensent work, Feloyra hongbrought sose tooklets

with hin fros an organization naved airectorio Revolucinario Estu-

dient1l (D.P.."..) (Cuben Students' Revolutionary Leadership). They

were printed in

Chile In Englisb, French, and Spanich, and tell

alout condizions in Cube and the etudents' flebt againet dictator

ship beginning in the liaptista (ale) era. Earlier they were die-

tributed in the countries of lorth and South Azerica, Aecordine

to ?églogra, the books be had here were in English and french, and

vere dietrisuted pricarily to lest Eurocean newssen, although his

original inseat had been to distrubte them to all nos-Cosminiet

Festival perticipants. If Feloyra resembers correctis, be et1ll

a bee qne er-: a? thie atllection In lie hotel too..

in caste

---

## Page 5

14-00000

1..

• 44.4

On pago nine of Felograls passpore is a Finnieh vica, nucter

55/C2, uh1ch hie student organizintion got for hin in the offsco

of the Consul Cencral of Finland In lier York on the sane das the

Visa vas otamped, 20 Jul C2. It was granted fros 24 Jul to

7 Aug 62.

Felogru left lew Yor! for Finland on an SAS plane on 24 sul 52

and arrived firet it Jaygrup, Densark, as stamped on pare elcht of

his passport oa Denmarkbo flen to Arlende: Sador, on 25 dull

62, a180 stamped on page elcht of hie peesport. He carty air to

he etill staye.

Ecloyre wet John Koch, a Cuban student whom he knew and tho

was on a sinilar trip, In Stockhols and they cave to Finland to-

„Eether. Koch firet got a room at the klaus Kur'l Hotel but on

31. Jul 62 be had to move to the Hotel Perho (a cuncer hotel in the

Rostaurant Forconnel School) becaused of a room shortage.

Their

originel Intent was to vielt the Cuban Feetivel dele-

sation's quartera and Inceribe the valle with the lottere D.R.E.

Fut after they learned that the Finnich jouth had anti-fectival

opinione, they decided to bring out openly their anti-ceatro po

• sition to the Cuban delegation, lith this In sind, Felogra and -

Roch bought eone black saint sron @ Heleinki paint ehop on satura

dey end min the afternoon of Sunday, 29 Jul E2,. they took = sheet

from Kochis bed at the Flaus Kurkl Hotel and they painted on it

the Spanish, French, and Engllth text appeering in the opening pert

ör this report.

Roch had borroved lla kolkewagen, and they drove

et 1800 hours that eare evenine to cee the proceçcion

as it noted

---

## Page 6

5-5-5-5

c2 iд.r.

sition

Intersection and walted for the cuten delogatica. da 1t kegan to

poes thes, theme ralced the banner

trey had osce at the slaus

Turil for the cubans in the proceceich to eee. & policesen case

to the scene, however, and urged thes to cel doss tros the top

of the car where they had teen displayine their barner, ené he

too% ther le the pollce station where their pessports vere ineree-

tea

chort interrezation kae cade

as to their conduct.

wAlter thisEeloyranandkochventzoutesdentbecOuben.Feot1vel

¿clegatlon's quartere and took sone pictures; cererel. ties they

Nhon

addressed Cuban delegater/they met. In town. In the aftericon o!

I hug Ez, they left koch's quarters for a drive in the esIe lolke-

wagen, and at 1930 hours nore driving along Aleisanderiniatu to-

varde. Unsoriakatu. At the intereection of these tho etreete,

they had a collieion with a police car coning fron the left and

the car they dere driving eustained sone body dazage...

Following the accident eloyra dend Xoch vere hold et the

to

Critinal Follce Department for reasone unknownd her.

Ee/osra had In his postession (without a leapon-bearing fer

I11) • Sparlsh-nade 32-callter Star pletol, nunber 612843. He

ec1à that he had golten 1t, as had the other cabar. refugees, fros

the Cutan refugee organization in the USA. lecause such a per

nit in the USA ls not required to be on one's persen, Eelogra

did noi bave one with him 1a Finland, although he doee bare 16

it hose (sle).

...wmzeri

Felojra declered that le le learing Finland today for hore

In the tEl the Eveden by plese.

-.re

---

## Page 7

1d-0n0d

-is trope.

G02424-377694

cruce he carinot read the text hisself, he refured to elen the

Finnish-lerguage copy.

ircheleicr and hitness present.

IntErTOgE CI.

ories: loa

...

14505453.

---

## Page 8

7-7-7-7

secondent John

roch, traled States Eutaect End chuzea 01

BPOBi

Cuto, declared that Rhe ves tOrO On 19 :ar 1940 10 FETESTE, DE

the lezal chile er indies socter enziect tiersen toch, vorting there,

ana bie Cuban life. lion iohn roch lives at 1027 South Feet 121h

Avenue, "Jaul, Floride. 'Fe had lired in Herenne (here he lae

Aticilse lo be an electrical entineer) troa the tire or bie tirth

intil 1° Jun 10, liher. he cad his parente vere forces to lenie

In the Ush roch telcazed to the save cucen etudest orgeal

DIversity In Cute..

after going to Aerica, Yock bed not chance

to continue his studiee. Se got a job as a salescan for e etcel

cospany®

Foch anted

mpar"lelrated in the Cuben student organiza-

zetlone activits with the sane intent zelorra had. Loch began

to ete preparatlone for the trip to finlend for the Corunist

countries! Festival. He had eaved ebout $500.00 and hed gotten.

atout $700.00 Bros his parente and friende mand thue vas able to

purchace the necesary tickets. This coney euifices, end Koch

st11l kas $150.00 in hie posteselon.

Soch left Hew YOrk on 25 Jul 62, couing to finland tie

Kastrup and Stockhole by sir en 27 Jul 62 (ele). Le had net bie

roon at the llaus lurtl 5oiel and fros there, due to a roos chortege,

had to core on 31 Jul 62 to the Hotel Ferho. Foch told the ease

• stors that telogra did concerning the rest of the retter.

roch woe triving the folkeragen which he had borrored.

---

## Page 9

td-innod

Hayäwärile iregi

Eaityai-ae tisfieen

E-2-85

a Sparinh-zado 32-cEllter Lle=a plelo1, nunter 255723. Fe ¿01e

the sa-e rtory de ieloyra cle in thle respect, t00.

Loch hac pald sor the theci he end Lelorta tcos

fro= the

forzer'e toos dt tLe ilque furk' joiel to uee es & banner.

Toch urnounced that he is leeving todes for hose in tbe

U'SA via Srecen by zir.

cwnaorse.foch.a.atorg.xaeatranslated.for.bis.into inelleh.andsbe.c

clered that ho déuld elen it.

Tranolator:

Kitness:

Interrogaior!

---

