ro4-t0229-10412

CusencaTore

SECRET

PROCESSING ~
eC

chiet, Western Hemisphere Diviston ‘|

ory

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
te" TY PIC/ANBUD/OPERATI ONAL
Cpisposition of ANBUD Medical Cases
AVOOROPAEHECS: A, UFGW. 6352, 23 January 1967
B, UFGA-26168, 20 October 1966
C. UFGA-26233, 28 October 1966
D. UFGA-26783, 19 January 1967 |

1. This report is forwarded as an interim reply to paragraph
three of Reference’A concerning utilization of State facilities for
the AMBUD medical cases requiring continued treatment, For Head-
quarters information, two of the three remaining cases are now being
handled by local institutions—and- similar arrangements for the third

are being investigated, ‘

*
2, Following the death of Rigoberto PEREZ Cruz which was
reported by References B and C, and the termination of all Payments:
for Rolando’ POZO Greer as reported in Referenco D, the remaining
active medical cases consist of -the following three Brigade 2506
individuals and ono Garcia Lines case; ;

(201 290405

Subjoct is an Epileptic being treated as an out-patient
by the Dade County Department of Public Health Anti-
convulsive Clinic at no cost.to JMWAVE, ‘The doctors forsee
no improvement and intend to continuo attempts to control
the seizures by medication, JMWAVE continues to Provide
Subject with a monthly payment of $225.00.

Subject is a mental case whose arrest in June 1964 for
attempted murder resulted in a Dade County court commitment
to South Florida State Hospital where -he improved sufficient};
for release in November 1964 to Jackson Memorial Hospital
(a Dade County facility which handles welfare cases) for
out-patient care which continues to be provided at no cos¢
to JMWAVE except minor cost for drugs which totaled $35.00

19-(24-25
rr
15 Feb 67

a.

NS a

Distribution:
~3 - Wi/COG

1 cnossmetrenc wT DSPATOH STB. AND HUME

UFGA-26980

19-124-25/6
19-124-25/5-3

“Wes


CoMtNUATION OF i
~ BiISPATCH i SECRET i UFGA-26980

ian in 1966, Subject receives a monthly payment of $250,00
from JMWAVE,
)

c.

Subject is a serious mental case and the individual
who continues to be treated by a private prychintrist,
Dr. Miguel A. Mora, The'‘cost of treatment by Dr. Mora
4s paid by JMWAVE and at $25.00 per office visit the
monthly expense averages $225.00. There have been no
recent charges for drugs. Subject receives a monthly payment
of $225.00 from JMWAVE and has success fully resisted
previous efforts ica tales him trom Dr, Mora.

da.

Subject 1s a Garcia Lines case who suffors from advanced
glaucoma and is nearly blind. He continues to receive
periodic out-patient care at Jackson Memorial Hospital
for which JMWAVE pays the cost of treatment and drugs,
~Subsequeént to the last surgery on 13 Soptember 1965 for
removal of cataracts, there have been ten charges for
treatment and/or drugs which total $95.00. Of this
amount $62,00 was for seven items in 1966,

JMWMAVE recommendations for disposition of thi case

3.
will be forwarded. following complotion of the investig¢:
Possibilities for treatment by Stato facilities as suggested in

Reference A,

Buticl Olinger

vA Philip G, ELMARD

CiasecaTen «&,
“EP 530 vie PRE nous EOC, SECRET ' 7

