# 104-10097-10340

## Page 1

104-10097-10340

jer S5003T

21

POS a MEXICO CITY

' GDP, 100P, G/SCO 4, G/CI, G/FI Z, RI/AN GUAN, G/WH

CONDS M65025

SECRET 201813Z

PRIORITY WAVE INFO DIR CITZ MEX: 6336

RYBAT TYPIC AADANTY PORUMEN

REFE WAVE 7520 (10:01165) it

L0 LAUULIA PASSENOERS APPARENTLY FOLLOWING RECENT. REFUESS

PATIORN AND HEADINO FOT LAD. SORDER WITHOUT WAITING

"OF" VISAS

BENI, A:SUPER- CONTADTEO SEVERAL AND DEVELOPED FRACJENTARY

1170.

3. -

FOLLOWING

LOSSTER FISHUG BOAT FROM ISLE OF PINIS: BOAT EELONGS 23

"BARTIRES DE BAIRD" FISHES GOPERATIVE, REGISTRY RUMBER C-LE-CID,

FORMERLY DELONGSO DO GU-COLONEL

CARLOS PONCE OUNER OF COMPANIA

DE PRODUCTOS DE CELA DO FINCS,

SAID THAT IT WAS DICIDED

THAT "CONRADO" UHOSS MAZNONY

WOULD ADVISE

TIAT GLANDESTINE DUIPHANT AND MATERIAL RECEPTION OPERATION

SCISCELED FOR 2300 NGUES TO 5100 HOURS, 22 - 23 007022R, 1800

ILLAESS

AND DEALS

COLLO NOT BE-.P*

AUTUPZIZED TO MANS RIGS UP IN VISU OF FAGI: HE UNDER SUSPICION:

AND RECENTLY PRISONE3, "CONTAD" NAS ADVISED OF THIS ON 20 COT:

SOLE COULD TELL

THAT BOAT COULD NOT BE SENT OUT FOR

13404

---

## Page 2

iN 55077

CENLATION.:

ARE COTN WILLING TO UNDERTAKE FURTIER

LEGIONS IN THIS ARCA WHICH THEY KNOW WELL.

INEY THINK THAT

OWNER OF BOA1

REGISTRY

WELL: HOLP, ALSO

POSSIELY

SHRIMPER, OWNER OF BOAT

REGISTRY

ALTHOUGI

SOMEWHAT LACKING.IN

TRAGE.

4.

SAYS CAYOS AGUARDIENTES IS COOD SPOT SINCE NO RESTS

FAN. TEN MILE STREICH AND UNINTERRUPTED LINE OF NAVIGATION FROM

ATE. TO OPEN SEAS

15q.

VILL DE GUAILABLE SOON AT ADDRESS 08

WEST PALL BEACH,. PHOSE

-6. FCLLOVING FRON

WHO UNGLE OR

NAS LEODER OF

HONA RISISTANCE MOVErNT (MOVINIENTO ORCANIZADD

METAL ANTICOULLISTAY,

RECSIVED INSTRUCTIONS FRON

AFIATION COMANDANTE WITH INDENTED SCAR ON FOREHEAD, AND FROM

MONA OPERATED ON SIGNAL "TAMAKUN." CODE

PROBER ONE MEANT "LISEAS LAS ARMAS PARA RECIBIR" AND CODE

HUMBER TWO MERIT "PREPARADOS PARA SALIR." IN AIL 1962 MONA

RECEIVED MSG "TAMAKUN ONE TWO" BUT NO CONFIRMATION OF DATE AND

HOUR OF MISSION •TUO VAY CONTACT LOST AFTER TRAT. AT ONE TIME

GrOUP RECEIVED

• MSE "LLAMANDO A TAMAXUN, INTRIVISTA A BENJAMIN

MAST

THEY HAD NO CONTACTS OR CODES MENTIONING BENJAMIN AND COULD

Nor:

ACT ON THIS.

13404

---

## Page 3

CLASSIRICO

EVAC

IN 65053 PACE?

PAS VITH HIM A LSO IN A NEW CODE UHIGH IS IS TO DELIVE

TO CHIEFS OF HIS MOVEMENT.

8. MONA REMEER BENITO ORTECA VAS ARRESTED IN GETOLSA ALO

EXECUTED IN LA CALANA FORIRESS. MENBERS IN PRISON AND SENTENCSS

ARE "LIMPIO" RIVES, 30 YEARS: "MACHO"ORTIZ, SO YEARS: RIGAEDO

ELANCO, 20 YEARS AND RIGOBERTO "GJAO" PALENZUELA LOPEZ, 20 YEARS.

"GUAO" WAS IN CHARGE OF MONA IN HAVAÑA, CONTACT WITH HAVANA

BROKEN SINCE HIS ARRESI JUNE 1963. NONE OF PERSONS EXECUTED

CR IN PRISON KNEW OF TAMAKUN OPS.

9

962 MISSION WAS SOUTH OF CAYO CAMPOS® HE SAYS

VIGILANCE IN THIS ZONE MERELY ROUTINE WITH PERIODIC SEARCHES 0F

SHORE LINE TO CAJON PERSONS TRYING ESCAPE. FEELS THAT FESIERHEN

AND LOESTERMEN IN ZONE ARE ALL ANTI-REGINE WITH ONLY SHALL NUNDER

CF PRO-REGIÑE PRODIE AGANS LOR FLUS FISHORIEN ISLE OF PINSS.

10€

AERORES IS UNAVARE CE ANY CLANDESIISE

ACTIVITY OVER THAN THAT IN WHICH IN INVOLVED IN INTERICT CY

ISLAND UHERE ME MORICO IN ASPAIR SHO?•

JAS IMFRISCISO

COVERAL TIRES, VONNED

CLANDESTINELY VITH

AND

227X

ACH IN Jo S.

1l.

NO ONE CONTACTED INCU:

130 STATICH HOPES ADOLE INNELE OF INTO VILL PROVE USEFLE VAVE.

SUGGEST BEST KETHCO PICK UP GROUP AS FILTERS ACROSS BORDER IS

TIRCUGH ADDRESS PARA 5.

13. INDEX®

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: RUBRIED IF MEL CAN ARANCE CONTACT WITH SUES (LICENTIFIED)

FOSSIBLY COMNECTICN THEIR FORTIE VISA RACIESTS

13404

---

