# 104-10216-10017

## Page 1

104-10216-10017

ATLE SELRETAMIAT DISSECRIATIO

C5/00

138A4:1 600Y

- €5/00

w...

14 8310

30

WH ST FLE. VR

OSLOTTED

FIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COMES

18/hen filled In y

REPAÊDUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITEO

in?

_ ROUTS AND'CH INITISIS SEEN 3Y

PREGENENGE

19/ 50l. 3, 9/5г

Sugar fun

.. WAKEAT

¡i deutruction, olte

5)8786t

SECRET I JAN JAN GITE WH/MIAMI WH/MIAMI DO: a

IMMEDIATE

INFO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR

XBAT TYPIC

REF

18310(1N619268

PRECISE WHEREABOUTS OF CAPTAIN JOSE

ABRAHANTES IS

NOT KNOWN TO US, BUT WE HAVE NO REASON TO BELIEVE THAT HE IS OUT-

SIDE OF CUBA: GIVEN HIS RANK (VICE MINISTER OF INTERIOR AND HEAD

OF THE DSE), IT SEEMS HIGHLY UNLIKELY THAI HE WOULD BE ENGAGED IN A

MISSION WITH SUCH PATENTLY HIGH FLAP POTENTIAL. OUR FILE ON JOYE

DOES NOT INDICATE THAT HE HAS EVER USED' WAR NAME "FIDEL." COM-

PARISON OF OUR MOST RECENT (CIRCA 1965) PHOTOGRAPH OF JOSE WITH

PHOTO 169 (OF JUAN) IN MUG 300K LEADS US TO CONCLUDE THAT JOSE

AND JUAN ARE NOT IDENTICAL. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION OF JOSE AS FOLLOUS:

THIRTY NINE YEAR OLD CAUCASIAN WITH BLACK HAIR AND EYES. DARK

COMPLETED, MEDIUM BUILD, ROUND FACE AND GENERALLY REGARDED AS

HANDSOME. DIFFERENT SOURCES ESTIMATE HIS HEIGHT AND WEIGHT AS RANG

ING FROM FIVE FOOT SEVEN TO FIVE FOOT NINE AND FROM 140 LBS TO 175

LBS.

2.:

WE HAVE NO PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION OF JUAN ABRAMANTES AND CAN

PROVIDE NO INFORMATION ON HIS CURRENT WHEREABOUTS.

FILE IN 201- 25 22 3%

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CARLE SECRETARIAT DISSELIMATION

FOR LEPROTOTO

ADDANSECOFY

863X3:3

BEISIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP!

60469

HEFRODICTION CE THIS COPY PREMICITEO

3 1

REUTING AND CR INITIALS-SEEN 3

5

i 6

00

AP.

- Z

PEA

ACTION UNIT

ACTION ND.

FILE, VR

:!:.

PAGE 2 WA/MIAMI ISGA8 SECRET. :

3. MAJOR ROLANDO CUBEL A SECADES <201-252234) WAS ARRESTED

IN EARLY 1966 FOR CONSPIRING WITH CIA AGAINST THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT

GENERALLY AND FIDEL CASTRO SPECIFICALLY• HIS SENTENCE WAS FOR 25

YEARS.. IN THE INTERIM WE HAVE RECEIVED SEVERAL REFUGEE REPORTS TO

THE EFFECT THAT CUBELA IS STILL CAS. OF AUGUST 1971) IN THE LA CABANA

PRISON WHERE IS

WORKING AS A MEDICAL DOCIOR. WE HAVE NO PHYSICAL

DESCRIPTION OF CUBELA AND HAVE NO FURTHER INFORMATION CONCERNING

HIS WHEREABOUTS. HOWEVER, UNLESS THE ENTIRE ARREST AND TRIAL IN

1966 AND SUBSEQUENI IMPRISONMENT OF CUBELA WERE A TOTAL FARSE, WE IN-

QINED TO DOUBT THAT CUBELA WOULD BE ENTRUSTED WITH THIS SORT OF

MISSION•

4.

JOSE ANGEL BUSTAMANTE

O'LEARY (201-822396) WAS BORN

IN JANUARY 1911 AND IS CURRENTLY A PROFESSOR PHYCHOLOGY AT THE

UNIVERSITY OF HAVANA MEDICAL SCHOOL. IN YOVEMBER 1971, ALONG WITH

FIDEL CASTRO, HE MADE CONTACT WITH CHILEAN DRUG TRAFFICERS (DIRECTOR

281184). WE HAVE NO PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION OR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS

TO BUSTAMANTE'S WHEREABOUTS, BUT ARE INCLINED TO THINK THAT HIS

AGE WOULD RULE HIM OUT OF THIS SORT OF EXERCISE.

• S• JACINTO VASQUEZ DE LA GARZA 8201-727297) IS CUIS

OFFICER MOST RECENTLY CUNTIL AT LEAST JULY 1970? HAS CUBAN

SFCRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

wist

CARE SECRETARIAT DISSERINATICY

ADYANCE CEOY

DISSUED

TIRED MESSAGE... TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP !

REFICOUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIFITEO

ROUTING AND OR UNTIALS-STEN BY

6

B+8SE1.

ACTION UNIT

SETION NO.

FILE, VR

PAGE 3 WA/MIAMI 1648 SECRET •

AMBASSADOR TO THE UAR. CURRENT WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN TO US. PHYSICAL

DESCRIPTION AS FOLLOWS: BORN SOMETIME BETWEEN 1927 AND 1932°

CAUCASIAN WITH LIGHT BROWN HAIR WHO WEARS PRESCRIPTION GLASSES•

DESCRIPTIONS OF HIS HEIGHT AND WEIGHT VARY FROM 5 FEET 6 INCHES TO 5

FEET 8 INCHES AND FROM 125 LAS TO 145 LBS•

Go FILE: DEFER. GPI.

SECRET

SECRET

---

