CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE
svanct TYP 1C/HHAPRON/AMTRUNK, AMFALL

QESRIEFING OF LUCIANO NIEVES MESTRE
TET Gu SED. PRONE

FYt

A. UFGW-5844 C. MADR-6819
B. WAVE-8471 D. UFGA-24477

1. THE LAST SECRET WRITING MESSAGE FROM AMTRUNK/10 WAS.
RECEIVED AT WAVE IH JULY 1964. PREVIOUS TO THIS MESSAGE, WAVE
HAD RECEIVED CHLY CHE OTHER S/W LETTER FROM AMTRUNK/10 SINCE HIS
RECRUITHENT IN HAVANA IN AUGUST 1963. BY CCNTRAST, WAVE SENT 10
S/W MESSAGES TO AMTRUNK/10 DURING THE PERIOD FROM SEPTEMBER 1963
THROUGH AUGUST 1964. SINCE AMTRUNK/10 HAD DEMONSTRATED LITTLE
INITEATIVE IN COGPERATING WITH KUBARK AND SINCE HE WAS ALSO
EMBROILED IN THE AMLASH COMPLEX, WAVE DECIDED AGAINST CONTINUING
TO PROD AMTRUNK/10 TO TAKE AN ACTIVE ROLE IM THE MHAPRCN OBJECTIVES
ASSIGNED TO HIM. WAVE HAS THCREFORE DISCONTINUED ANY FURTHER
CORRESPONDENCE WITH AMTRUNK/10,

2. THE KEY TO ANTRUNK/10'S PRESENT SITUATION IN CUBA MIGHT
BE FOUND IN THE HEADQUARTERS-DIRECTED AMLASH/1 OPERATION, THE
STATUS OF WHICH IS PRESENTLY UNCLEAR TO WAVE.

3+ ANOTHER COMPLICATING FACTOR MAY BE THE ARREST tN LATE
DECEMBER 1965 OF ANTRUHK/11, A SUPPORT ASSET KNOWN TO AMTRUNK/10.
THE GHLY DETAILS KHCWH TO WAVE SURROUNDING THE ARREST OF AMTRUNK/ 11
ARE FOUND IN REFS B AND C.

4. WAVE BELIEVES IT POINTLESS TO QUESTION NIEVES FURTHER ON
AMTRURK/10, SINCE INFO THUS FAR PROVIDED, LIKE ALL NIEVES! ENFO, ©
HAS BEEN INCCHSISTENT. WHILE EN 16 JANUARY 66 DEBRIEFING HIEVES
SAID AHTRUNK/10 WAS ONE GF SIX CGHMANDERS OF HIS GROUP WHO WERE
CONSPIRING AGAINST FIEDEL, CN 30 JANUARY, WHEN HE ERLARGED THE
COMMANDERS GROUP TO 10, HE STATEO AMTRUNK/10 WAS NOT A HEMSER OF
THE GROUP. AS INDICATED REF D, THERE 1S STRONG PROBABILITY THE
ENTIRE CCNSPIRATGRIAL GROUP IS A FIGMENT OF NIEVES* IMAGINATION,

i : Kadi aek f/f
PHILIP G. ELMARD _
DISTRIBUTION BY TAPE cae . (meres

paar
es,

(CROSS REFTRENCE TO. DISPATCH SYEOL AND RROER joe

UFGA-24539 17 FEBRUARY 1966
cassean

oy GS ree evar
SECRET 201-788521

