# 104-10124-10218

## Page 1

104-10124-10218

SUPPLEMENTAL PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

NAME (First-middle-last)

.?.

'AFITAL STATUS

James Walton Moore

X. NAFFIES

15

MARRIED

NAME OF SPOUSE

(First-middle (maiden)-last)

Fatricia Ansley Moore

PLACE OF MARRIAGE

¡DATE OF MARRIAGE

Lashington,

4.

C.

12 ADr 41

RESIDENCE (Since date of last PHS, il overseas residence

indicate

only city & country)

SINCE (Date)

NUMBER AND STREET

CITY AND STATE

PRESENT

Auzust 1954

DATE TO DATE

5145 Rexton Lane

NUMBER AND STREET

Dallas,

Texas

CITY AND STATE

FROM

Apr 54 to Jul 54

DATE TO DATE

3406 Dartmouth

NUMBER AND STREET

Dallas, Texas

CITY AND STATE

FROM

Jun 50 to ADr 54

3502 Underwood

Houston, Texas

5. HAVE YOU BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED, OR CONVICTED FOR

ANY VIOLATION

Of Lav (Other than for

minor traffic violation) SINCE THE DATE OF

YOUR LAST PHS

6. SINCE THE DATE OF

YOUR LAST

PHS. HAVE THERE BEEN ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE

WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION

7. NAME OF YOUR PRESENT IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR

EXT.

RY. #,

Ernest A Rische, Houston,

Texas

8. ADDITIONAL REMARKS (USe reverse il necessary)

':..

Yes. Explain

NO

bes Explain

Ix"C

DATE

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

444e

-KIETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

---

## Page 2

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

Instructions:

1.

Answer all questions completely.

able."

the answer from personai records.

Use the blank pages at the end of this form

for extra details on any question or questions for which you do not have suff-

cient room..

Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive con-

HAVE YOU READ AND DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE INSTRUCTIONS?

Yes

Jes or No

SEC. 1. PERSONAL BACKGROUND

Telephone:

ADIE

A. FULL NAME Mr.

(Use No

Initials)

I.

Malton

Middle

Moore

Last

Office:

Ext

PRESENT ADDRESS

PERMANENT ADDRESS

2600 Pemberton Ave.,

Houston,

• Тёхав:

five

St. & No.:

Citya

State

1e102

2457 Talewild St., Abilene, Texes

St. & No.

City

B. NICKNAME JiT - Jinnie

¿WHAT OTHER NAMES HAVE YOU USED?

Home:

U SA

Country

USA

country.

None

UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES HAVE YOU EVER USED THESE

NAMES?

Not applicable

HOW LONG?

IF A LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS

Wheret

C. DATE OF BIRTH 5i Oct 1919 PLACE OF BIRTH

D. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP -

US

Country

BY-BIRTH?-

By What Authority

Fartwell

Georgia

C1ty

State

Yes

_ BY MARRIAGE?

Country

BY NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE #

- ISSUED

Date

BY

Court

AT

CiLy

State

HAVE YOU HAD A PREVIOUS NATIONALITY?

Countr

No

HELD BETWEEN WHAT DATES?

_ TO

Yes or No

Country

_ ANY OTHER NATIONALITY?"

Country

GIVE PARTICULARS

HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENSHIP? -

No

_ GIVE PARTICULARS:

FORM NO.

SEP IBAB

3B. 1

---

## Page 3

E. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. WHEN DID YOU FIRST ARRIVE IN THIS COUNTRY?.

PORT OF ENTRY?

ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY?.

LAST U.S. VISA

Number

Type

Place of Issue

Date of Issue

SEC.

2. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION

30

Male

68

AGE

SEX

HEIGHT

WEIGHT

190 lbs

brown

bormw

EYES

HAIR

medium

COMPLEXION -

SCARS nOne

BUILD

average

_ OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES

SEC.

3. MARITAL STATUS

A SINGLE

MARRIED

DIVORCED

WIDOWED

STATE DATE; PLACE, AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

(IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE - INCLUDE ANNUL-

B. WIFE OR HUSBAND

MENTS - USE A SEPARATE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND

GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.)

Alyce

Patricia."

Ansley

Moore

NAME OF SPOUSE

First

Middle

Maiden

"Last

PLACE AND DATE OF MARRIAGE .

"Washirigton, Do Cos April

12, 1941

HIS (OR HER) ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE 857 Ross Ave., Abilene, Texas

Country

LIVING OR DECEASED Living

- DATE OF DECEASE

CAUSE

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS 2600 Pemberton Ate., Houston, Texas, U.S.A.

DATE OF BIRTH 28 NOT. 191/LACE OF BIRTH

Houston, Texas, USA

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY 1

CITIZENSHIP

US WHEN ACQUIRED?

• WHERE?

housewife

OCCUPATION

LAST EMPLOYER

City

FBI

Btate

Country

EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS

MILITARY SERVICE FROM

Washington, D.C:

St. & No.

TO

State

_ BRANCH OF SERVICE

Country

Dale

Date

COUNTRY

- DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT. SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN

---

## Page 4

SEC. 4, CHILDREN OR DEPENDENTS (Include partial dependents)

1. NAME Michael Malton Hoore

CITIZENSHIP -

US

2. NAME largaret Lee loore

— RELATIONSHIP

Son

6

AOE

_ ADDRESS 2600 Pemberton,

St. & No.

_Houston, TexaB, USA

Stiste

- RELATIONSHIP Daughter

CouDEry

AGE

=5:

CITIZENSHIP US

ADDRESS

2600 Pemberton, Houston, Texas, USA

3. NAME.

RELATIONSHIP:

AGE "

CITIZENSHIP

- ADDRESS

Bt. & No.

City

State

Country

SEC.

5.

FATHER (Give the same information for stepfather and/or guardian on a separate sheet)

FULL NAME

÷*÷

James

Walton

Moore

••A a9o

Last:

LIVING OR DECEASED Deceased

DATE OF DECEASE Doc. 1938

• CAUSE - Cancer

PRESENT, OR, LAST, ADDRESS 1701. Sandefer St i Abilene: Texas, USA:

St. & No.

Country

DATE OF BIRTH

1889

_PLACE OF BIRTH lurphy County, N. Carolina

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY -

CITIZENSHIP -:

WHEN ACQUIRED?

- WHERE? :

OCCUPATION Missionary

City

Country

_ LAST EMPLOYER Baptist Foreign Mission Board

EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSINESS ADDRESS Louisville, Kentucky

USA

Bt. & No.

Country

MILITARY SERVICE FROM

1917 TO 1918 BRANCH OF SERVICE _

US Army

Date

COUNTRY

DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT SERVICE, US. OR FOREIGN.

SEC. 6. MOTHER (Give the same information for stepmother on a separate sheet):

FULL NAME linnie

First

Lee

Moore

Middle

Last

LIVING OR DECEASED Living

- DATE OF DECEASE

CAUSE

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS 711 South 5th Street, Waco, Texas

St. & No.

DATE OF BIRTH _

1892

_ PLACE OF BIRTH

•Noleme Texas

CITIZENSHIP

US

WHEN ACQUIRED?

- WHERE?

City

IF BORN OUTSIDE US. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY

USA

Country

State

Country

---

## Page 5

2799

OCCUPATION •

housewife LAST EMPLOYER

EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSINESS ADDRESS

Bt. & No.

City

Btate

MILITARY SERVICE FROM -

TO

- BRANCH OF SERVICIS

Country

COUNTRY :

DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT. SERVICE, US. OR FOREIGN.

SEC.

%. BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including half-, step, and adopted brothers and sisters)

1." FULL NAME

Jane

Hutchins

AGE

32

PRESENT ADDRESS

FULL NAME

Martha

First

Middle

Monna Carroll, Illinois

Bt. & No.

City

Miriam

USA

Country

State

Wafford

maiddle:

PRESENT ADDRESS

Pittsburg, Penna.

State

Betty

USA

Country

Parker

3. FULL NAME -

First

PRESENT ADDRESS

Tlle S. 5th

Street,

Bt. & No..

Middle

1.24

Waco, Texas

USA

Country

4.

FULL NAME

First

Middle:

PRESENT ADDRESS

St. & No.

City

Btate

Country

5, FULL NAME

First

Maddie

PRESENT ADDRESS

St. & No.

City

State

Country

SEC.. 8. FATHER-IN-LAW

FULL NAME

William

irat

0.

Arsley

Middle

Us

Citizenahip »

27

AGE

Last u

÷ 12024

USTA

CitIzenship

Tast

AGE

US

Citizenship

AGE

Last

Citirensalp

AGE

Citizenship

Last

LIVING OR DECEASED LiVing DATE OF DECEASE -

CAUSE

PRESENT. OR LAST, ADDRESS 857 ROSs ATene, Abilene, Texas

DATE OF BIPTH -

1889

_ PLACE OF BIRTH

Houston, Texes

U. Sahe

Country

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY

CITIZENSHIP

WHEN ACQUIRED?

WHERE?

Partner of Hoffman Elect. Supply Co.

OCCUPATION

- LAST EMPLOYER Hoffman Electrical Supply co.

---

## Page 6

SEC. 9.

MOTHER-IN-LAW

SEC. 10.

SEC. 11.

FULL NAME:

Largaret.

First

Middle

LIVING OR DECEASED LiviNg DATE OF DECEASE

Ansley

LaBt

CAUSE

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS 357 ROBE ATERO, Abilene, TexAs

DATE OF BIRTH

- PLACE OF BIRTH -

San Antonio, Texas

USA

Country

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY .

CITIZENSHIP

- WHEN ACQUIRED? -

WHERE?

State

Couatry

housewife

OCCUPATION

LAST EMPLOYER

RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION, WHO EITHER LIVE ABROAD OR

WHO ARE NOT CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES:

NAME Not applicable

RELATIONSHIP

AGE

CITIZENSHIP *

ADDRESS

NAME L

BE, & NO. ¿

RELATIONSHT

State

Country

AGE

CITIZENSHIP

ADDRESS

city

State

Country

3. NAME

si?:

RELATIONSHIP

CITIZENSHIP

ADDRESS

Bt. & NO..

City.

Btate

Country

RELATIVES BY BLOOD OR MARRIAGE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL SERVICE OF

THE U.S. OR OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.

1. NAME

Not applicable

RELATIONSHIF

- AGE

CITIZENSHIP

ADDRESS

Bt. &. No.

City

Seale :

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)

2. NAME

RELATIONSHIP

- AGE.

CITIZENSHIP

ADDRESS

Bt. & No.

City

State

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)

3. NAME

RELATIONSHIF

AGE

CITIZENSHIP

ADDRESS

St. & No.

City

Btate

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)

5

---

## Page 7

14-00000

6

SEC. 12. EDUCATION JainE Inland : 10510=

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL FElic Cancel

ADDRESS

DATES ATTENDED 1826 - 152€

Cruzose Shantarie

Clif

State

• GRADUATE?

tes

HIGH SCHOOL .

Зана -226n6 12е8в0r

ADDRESS

CIty

DATES ATTENDED _ 2950 - 1956

- GRADUATE?

siste

COLLEGE FErdi FinonE Taiterrita

ADDRESS MICHEL

City

DATES ATTENDED 1655 - 1959

_ DEGREE

COLLEGE ESSErE TeSt Inton Lew Scuoo- ADDRESSARA:

Store

City

2e

DATES ATTENDED

1940 - 1941

_ DEGRFE

Country

Country

TT C!

Country

==1.

CouDEry

SEC. 13. MILITARY, NAVAL OR OTHER GOV'T SERVICE - U.S. OR FOREIGN

US

LETY

Resign Jar E, 45 to June 26

Country

i. Chine

Last Station

Service

Rank

Dates of Service

415-046

Honorsole

Serial No.

Type of Discharge

REMARKS:

SELECTIVE SERVICE BOARD NUMBER

ADDRESS

IF DEFERRED GIVE REASON

INDICATE MENBERSHIP IN MILITARY RESERVE ORGANIZATIONS

SEC. 14

CHRONOLCGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT FOR PAST 15 YEARS. ACCOUNT

FOR ALL. PERIODS. INCLUDE CASUAL EMPLOYMENT.

INCLUDE ALSO PERIODS

OF UNEMPLOYMENT. GIVE ADDRESSES AND STATE WHAT YOU DID DURING

PERIODS OF UNEMPLOYMENT. LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.

1. FROM June 1946

тО -

Fresent

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

ADDRESS Washington, F. C.

St. & No.

CIL.

USt

Csty

KIND OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF JOB

State

NAME OF SUPERVISOR -

_ SALARY $_ 6800.

Country

_ PER SAMUIE

YOUR DUTIES

REASONS FOR LEAVING

2. FROM -

Jar. 6, 1945

- ТО -

JunE 1046

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

U.S. Havy

---

## Page 8

ADDRESS

reshin forg

S:. & NO.

Cils

KIND OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF JOB

YOUR DUTIES

REASONS FOR LEAVING

3. FROM JET. 184E

Honoraite Sischarge

TO

CANO 3RAE

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENC

== ÷

ADDRESS

Si & No.

CItI

KIND OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF JOB

YOUR DUTIES

Special arent

REASONS FOR LEAVING

4. FROM -

April 1940

TO

iano 1943

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

ADDRESS

Et. & No.

CI15

KIND OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF JOB

YOUR DUTIES

Special Straggler seuroser

REASONS FOR LEAVING

5. FROM

TO

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY -

ADDRESS

St. & No.

Cily

KIND OF BUSINESS

TITLE OF JOB _

YOUR DUTIES

REASONS OR LEAVING

SiBlE

NAME OF SUPERVISOR

_ SALARY I

_ PER

State

NAME OF SUPERVISOR

_ SALARY $ 01F-22 PER

Stare

NAVE OF SUPERVISOR -

_ SALARY S.

047-E PER

State

— NAME OF SUPERVISOR

_ SALARY S

PER

7

Country

Country

---

## Page 9

14-00000

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SEC: 18.

GIVE THREE NEIGHBORS AT YOUR LAST NORMAL RESIDENCE IN THE US - (Give

residence and business addresses where possible.)

Street and Nurber

1.

tro Ponald iis

CIET

Siste

BUS. ADD

RES. ADD

2.

To fronty

mon

BU'S. ADD.

RES. ADD.

3500 ladsminode Bearione FEuES

3.

12100::

BUS. ADD.

RES. ADD..

3500 Mademood, Houstone Ter

SEC. 19. FINANCIAL BACKGROUND

A. ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY? _ Yes.

OF OTHER INCOME -

B. NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF BANKS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS -

Formers i encints istional

Eenise silene, JaDEs

C. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY?

2:0.

GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT:

_ IF NOT, STATE SOURCES

D. GIVE THREE CREDIT REFERENCES - IN THE U.S.

1. NAME

- ADDRESS

2. NAME

- ADDRESS

3. NAME

ADDRESS

St. & No.

Bt. & No.

St. & No.

City

City

City

SEC. 20. RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS

FROM 1936

- TO

1940

St. No.

FROM 1940

- TO

1942

Si. No

FROM 1942

TO

1545

8r. No.

FROM

1945

1947

St. No.

FROM 1947

- TO

Aor 1948

FROM _Apr 194%0.

Bs. No.

Sept. 1949

Bt. No.

Abilene

City

Teres

SUBtE

Reshington, E.

CIES

Biate

San

Francisco,

Salifernic

City

Brate

Horth

Chire

City

Tsingtoo

City

Celcutta

City

State

Fortr

• Chins

Btate

India

State

FROM -

TO

St. No.

City

Btate

FROM

_ TO

"entr Chine

Couniry

BIste

Brate

TSA

Country

USA

Country

TSA

country

Country

Country

Country

Country

SEC. 21. RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES

A. FROM 1920

— TO

1936

Chefco

City or Section

FROM 1945

FROM

TO

TO

1949

City or Section

with perents

Covalry

Purpose

City or Section

Country

Purpose

9

---

## Page 11

FROM

FROM

FROM

TO

TO

TO

10

City or Section

City or Section

City or Section

Country

Country

Country

Purpose

Purpose

purpose.

B. LAST US, PASSPORT - NUMBER, DATE, AND PLACE OF ISSUE:

HOW MANY OTHER U.S. PASSPORTS HAVE YOU HAD?

GIVE APPROXIMATE

DATES:

PASSPORTS OF OTHER NATIONS: -

SEC. 22.

CLUBS, SOCIETIES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

"NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF ALI, CLUBS, SOCIETIES, PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES,

EMPLOYEE GROUPS, ORGANIZATIONS OF ANY KIND (INCLUDE MEMBERSHIP IN, OR SUP-

PORT OF, ANY ORGANIZATION HAVING HEADQUARTERS OR BRANCH IN A FOREIGN COUN-

TRY) TO WHICH YOU BELONG OR HAVE BELONGED: 15

2.

3.

B.

*7.

Chapter:

BS CAR.

DATES OF MEMBERSHIE

St. & No.

24"

Name and Chapter

Bt. & No,

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

Name and Chapter

Bt. & No.

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

Name and Chapter

St. & No.

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

Name and Chapter

St. & No.

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

Name and Chapter

St. & No.

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

Name and Chapter

Se. de 190.

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP:

City

City

City

City

_ City

City

City

State...

Btate

Btate

State

State:

Btate

State

Country

Country

Country.

Country

Country

country

Country

---

## Page 12

14-00000

-

SEC'ES. GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS

A. FOREIGN LANGUAGES (STATE DEGREE OR PROFICENCY AS "SLIGHT" "FAIR" OR

"FLUENT";

LANGUAGE Chinese

LANGUAGE Frenc

SPEAK sir

READ

- WRITE

SPEAK -

Elight

READ

WRITE

Slight

LANGUAGE -

SPEAK -

- READ

- WRITE

B. LIST ALL SPORTS AND HOBBIES WHICH INTEREST YOU: INDICATE DEGREE OF PROFI-

CIENCY IN EACH:

Jennis, Golf, Fandball - fair

C. HAVE YOU ANY QUALIFICATIONS, AS A RESULT OF TRAINING OR EXPERIENCE, WHICH

MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR POSITION?

D. LIST BELOW THE NAMES OF GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES OR OFFICES TO

WHICH YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT SINCE 1939:

Department of Justice

CIt

E. IF, TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, ANY OF THE ABOVE HAS CONDUCTED AN INVESTIGATION OF

YOU, INDICATE BELOW THE NAME OF THAT AGENCY AND THE APPROXIMATE DATE OF

INVESTIGATION:

F2I - 1940

11

---

## Page 13

14-00000

12

SEC. 24. MISCELLANEOUS

A. DO YOU ADVOCATE OR HAVE YOU EVER ADVOCATED; OR ARE YOU NOW OP. HAVE YOU

EVER BEEN A MEMBER OR, OP. HAVE YOU SUPPORTED ANY POLITICAL PARTY OR ORGANI-

ZATION WHICH ADVOCATES THE OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOV-

ERNMENT IN THE UNITED STATES?

IF "YES", EXPLAIN:

1.0

B. DO YOU USE, OR HAVE YOU USED, INTOXICANTS? -

slight extent

_ IF SO, TO WHAT

EXTENT?

C. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF

LAW OTHER THAN A MINOR TRAFFIC VIOLATION? IF SO,

STATE NAME OF COURT,

CITY, STATE, COUNTRY, NATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE:

D. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN COURT-MARTIALED WHILE A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES?

IF ANSWER IS "YES," GIVE DETAILS BELOW:

No

SEC. 25. PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY:

NAME

Inco Farricia Lo i core

_ RELATIONSHIP

2600 Beibertor Strect, Ecuctor, ICREE, USA

ADDRESS

Si. & No.

CIty

State

Tife

Country

SEC. 26.

YOU ARE INFORMED THAT THE CORRECTNESS OF ALL STATEMENTS MADE HERE-

IN WILL BE INVESTIGATED.

ARE THERE ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED ABOVE WHICH

MAY BE DISCOVERED IN SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION, WHETHER YOU WERE DIRECTLY

INVOLVED OR NOT, WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION? IF SO, DESCRIBE. IF NOT, AN-

SWER "NO."

- In

---

## Page 14

14-00000

Te. 21.

I'CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING ANSWERS ARE TRUE AND CORPECT TO THE

BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF, AND I AGREE THAT ANY MISSTATEMENT

OR OMISSION AS TO A MATERIAL FACT WILL CONSTITUTE GROUNDS FOR IM-

MEDIATE DISMISSAL OR REJECTION OF MY APPLICATION

SIGNED AT

BO0.20w, Testes

Chy and State

_ DATE - - •=

1956

/sl Puarl I Foren

Witness

A Witten

USE THE FOLLOWING PAGES FOR EXTRA DETAILS.

NUMBER ACCORDING TO THE NUMBER

OF THE QUESTION TO WHICH THEY RELATE

SIGN YOUR NAME AT THE END OF THE ADDED

MATERIAL. IF ADDITIONAL SPACE IS REQUIRED USE EXTRA PAGES THE SAME SIZE AS

THESE AND SIGN EACH SUCH PAGE.

13

V. ≤ GOVERNMENT PREITING OFFICE: 1950 O - 837523

---

## Page 15

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT - (Appendix I)

Listed below are names of organizations identined by the Attorney General, under his responsibility pursuant to

Executive Ordèr 10450, dated 27 April 1953, to list the names of each foreign or domestic organization, association,

movement, group or combination of persons which he designates as Totalitarian, Fascist, Communist, or subversive,

or as having adopted or having shown a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or vio-

lence to deny others their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or as seeking to alter the form of

government of the United States by unconstitutlonal means.

Each applicant or employee and spouse (11 any) must review the following list of organizations for certification

purposes, and sign on the last page. mu':

Abrabam Lincoln Brigade

Abrabam Llncoin School, Chicago, Illinols

Actlon Committee to Free Bpain Now

Alabama People's Educational Association (see Communist Politi-

cal Association)

American Association for Reconstruction In Yugoslavis, Inc.

American Branch of the Federation of Greek Maritime Unions

American Christian Nationalist Party

American Committee for European Workers' Rellef (see Bocialist

Workers Party)

American Committee for Protection of Forelgn Born

American Commolttee for Spaniah Freedom

American Committee for the Settlement of Jews In, Blrobidjan, Inc.

American Committee for Yugoslav Reilef, Inc.

American Committee to Burvey Labor Conditions In Europe

-..

American Council for & Democratic Greece, formerly known as the

Greek American Council; Greek American Committee for Na-

tional Unity

American Council on Soviet Relations

American Croatian Congress

American Jewish Labor Counchl

American League Against War and Fasciam

American Lesgue for Peace and Democracy

American

National Labor Party

American National Boclalist League

American National Bociallst Party

American Nationalist Party

American Patrlots, Iac.

American Peace Crusade

American Peace Mobillzation

American Poles for Peace

American Pollsh Labor Councl

American Pollsh League

American Rescue Ship Mission (a project of the United Amerlean

Spanish Aid Committee)

American-Russian Fraternal Society

American Russian Institute, New York, also known as the Ameri-

can Russian Institute for Cultural Relations with the Sovler

Unlon

Americas Hussian Institute, Philadelphia

American Russian Institute of Ban Francisco

American Russian Institute of Soutbern Callfornia, Los Angeles

American Blat Congress

American Women for Pesce

American Jouth Congress

American Touth for Democracy

Armentan Progressive League of America

Associated Klans of America

Association of Georgia Kians

Association of German Nationals (Reichsdeutache Vereinigung)

Ausland-Organization der NSDAP, Oversess Branch of Nazl Party

Baltimore Forum

Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee

Bisck Dragon Bociety

11-33 444d UBE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

Boston School for Martist Studies, Boston, Massachusetts

Bridges-Robertson-Bchmidt Defense Committee

Bulgarian American People's Lesgue of the United States of

America

Callfornis Emergency Defense Committee

California Labor School, Inc., 321 Divisadero Street, Ban Franciaco,

California

Carpatho-Russian People's Soclety

Central Council of American Women of Croatian Descent, alBO

•Enown as Central Counce American Croatian Women, Na-

tional Councll of Croatian Women

Central Japanese Associatlon (Beikoku Chuo Nipponjia Kal)

Centril Japanese Association of Southern California

Central Organtation of the German-American National Allance

(Deutsche-Amerikanische Einbeltsfront)

Cervantes Fraternal Soclety

China Welfare Appeal, Inc.

Chopin Cultural Center

Citizens Committee for Barry Bridges

Citizens Committee of the Upper West Bide (New York City)

Citizens Committee to Free Earl Browder

Citizens Emergency Defense Conference

Citizens Protective League

Civil Ilbertles Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh

Civil Rights Congress and ite amliated organizations. including:

Civil Righta Congrese for Texas

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civll Rights Congress of

New Tork

Civil Rights Congress fOr Texas (see Civil Righta Congress)

Columblans

Comite Coordinador Pro Republica Espanola

Comite Pro Derechos Civiles

(See Puerto Rican Comite Pro Ilbertades Civiles)

Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy

Committee for Constitutional and Political Freedom

Committee for Natlonalist Action

Committee for Peace and Brotherbood Festival in Philadelphia

Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh alx

Committee for the Negro in the Arts

Committee for the Protection Of the BIll of Rights

Committee for World Youth Friendship and Cultural Exchange

Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland

(Bee Congress

Against

Discrimination;

Maryland Congrese

Against

Discrimination; Provisional Committee to Abollsh

Discrimination in the State of Maryland)

Committee to Ald the Fighting Bouth

Committee to Defend Marte Richardson

Committee to Defend the Rights and Freedom of Pittsburgh's

Political Prisoners

Committee to Upbold the Bill of Righte

Commonwealth College, Mena, Arkansas

Communist Party, U. B. A., Its subdivisions, subsidiarles, and

amallates

-1-

(4)

---

## Page 16

Communiat Political Association, it subdivisions, subsidiaries,

and ailiates, including:

Alabama People's Educational Assoclation

Florida Presa and Educational Lesgue

Oklaboma League for Political Education

People's Educational and Presa Association of Texas

Virginia League for People's Education

Congress Against Discrimination

(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)

Congress of American Revolutionary Wrlters

Congress of American Women

Congress of the Unemployed

Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Bmith Act

• Connecticut State Youth Conference

Council for Jobs, Rellef and Housing

Council for Pan-American Democracy

Councll of Greek Americans

Council on African Affairs

Croatian Benevolent Fraternity

Dal Nippon Butoku Kal (Military Virtue Boclety of Japan of MIlI-

tary Art Boclety of Japan)

Dally Worker Press Club

Danlels Detense Committee

Dante Aligbiert Society (between 1935 and 1940)

Dennis Defense Committee

Detrolt Youth Assembly

East Bay Peace Committee

Elsinore Progressive League

Emergency Conference to Bave Spanish Refugees (founding body

of the North American Spanish Ald Committee)

Everybody's Committee to Outlaw War

Families of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims

Families of the Braith Act Victims

Federation of Italian War Veterans in the U. 8. A., Inc. (Associa-

stone Nazionale Combattenti Italiant, Federazione degli Stati

• Uniti d'America)

Fianish-American Mutual Ald Boclety

Florida Press and Educational League (see Communtst Politica)

Association)

Frederick Douglass Iducational Center

Freedom Stage, Inc.

Friends of the New Germany (Freunde des Neuen Deutschlands)

Frlends of the Soviet Unlon

Garibald! American Fraternal Society

George Washington Carver School, New York City

German-American Bund (Amertkadeutscher Volksbund)

German-American Republican Lesgue

German-American

Vocational Lesgue (Deutsche-Amerikanische

Berutsgemelnschaft)

Guardian Club

Harlem Trade Union Council

Hawall Civll Llberties Committee

Helmushs Sal, also Known as Nokubel Helek! Gimushs Kal, Zalbel

Nibonjin, Helyaku Gimusha Kal, and Zalbel Helmusha Kal (Jap

anEsE Residing In America Milltary Conscripts Assoclation)

Hellenic-American Brotberhood

Fltnode Kal (Imperial Japanese Reservists)

Hinomaru Kal (Rising Sun Flag Society - & group of Japanese

War Veterans)

Hokubel Zaigo Shoke Dan (North American Reserve Oticers Ass0-

clation)

Hollywood Writers Mobilization for Defense

Hungarian-American Council for Democracy

Hungarian Brotherbood

Idabo Pension Unlon

Independent Party (Seattle, Washington)

(See Independent People's Party)

Independent People's Party

(Bee Independent Party)

Industriad Workers of the World

International Labor Defense

International Workers Order, Ite subdivisions, subsldiarles and

amitates

Japanese Association of America

Japanese Overseas Central Boclety (Kalgal Dobo Chuo Bal)

Japanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo, Japan, 1910

Ispanese Protective Assoclation (Recruiting Organization)

Jefferson School of Bocial Science, New York City

Jewish Culture Society

Jewish People'& Committee

Jewish People's Fraternal Order

Jikyoku Iinks! (The Committee for the Crists)

Johnson-Forest Group

(see Johnsonites)

Johnsonites

(See Johnson-Forest Group)

Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee

Joint Councll of Progressive Italian-Americans, Inc.

Joseph Wedemeyer School of Bocial Bcience, Bt. Louis, Missourt

Kibel Beinen Kal (Association of U. B. Citizens of Japanese An-

cestry who have returned to America alter studying in Japan)

Knights of the White Camellia

Ku Klux Kian

Kythseuser,

also known as Kyllhaeuser League (Kyihseuser

Bund), Kylhaeuser Fellowahip (Kyfthseuser Kameradschaft)

KyfIhaeuser War Relief (Bythaeuser Erlegsbiliswerk)

Labor Council for Negro Rigbts

Labor Research Association, Inc.

Labor Youth League

League for Common Sense

League of American Writers

Lictor Soclety (Italian Black Bhirts)

Macedontan-American People's League

Mario Morgantin! Circle

Martime Labor Committee to Defend Al Lannon

Maryland Congress Against Discrimination

(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)

Massachusetts Committee for the Bill of Righte

Massachusetts Minute Women for Peace (not connected with the

Minute Women of the U. B. A., Inc.)

Maurice Braverman Defense Committee

Michigan Civil Rights Federation

Michigan Council for Peace

Michigan School of Social Sclence

Nanks Telkolu Gunyudan (Imperial Military Friends Group or

Southern Callfornia War Veterans)

National Association of Mexican Americans (also known as Asocia-

cion Naclonal Mexico-Americans)

National Blue Star Motbers of America (not to be confused with

the Blue.Star Mothers of America organized in February 1942)

National Committee for Freedom of the Press

National Committee for the Defense of Political Prisoners

National Committee to Win Amnesty for Bmith Act Victlms

National Committee to Win the Peace

Natlonal Conference on American Polley in China and the Far East

(a Conference called by the Committee for a Democratic Par

Eastern Policy)

National Council of Americans of Crostian Descent

National Council of American-Boviet Friendship

National Federation for Constitutional Llbertles

National Labor Conference for Peace

Natlonal Negro Congress

National Negro Labor Counchl

Nationalist Action League

- 2-

---

## Page 17

Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico

Nature Friends of America (siace 1935)

Negro Labor, Victory Committee

New Committee for Publications

Nichlbel Kogyo Kaisha (The Great Fujul Theatre)

North American Committee to Ald Spanish Democracy

North American Spanish Ald Committee

North Philadelphle Forum

Northwest Japanese Assoclation

Ohto School of Social Sciences

Oklahoma Committee to Defend Politieal Prisoners

cal Assoclation)

Original Bouthern Klans, Incorporated

Pacific Northwest Labor School, Seattle, Washington

Palo Alto Peace Club

Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating In the Canal Zone)

Peace Information Center

Peace Movement of Ethiopia

People's Drama, Inc.

People's Educational and Press Association of Texas (see Commu-

nist Political Assoclation)

People's Educational Assoclation (lacorporated under name Los

Angeles Educational Association, Inc.), also known aa People'a

Educational Center, People's University, People's Echool

People's Institute of Applied Religion

Peoples Programs (Seattle, Waahington)

People's Radio Foundation, Inc.

People's Rights Party

Philadelphia Labor Committee for Negro Rights

Philadelphia School of Bocial Science and Art

Photo League (New York City)

Pittsburgh Arta Club

Political Prisoners' Welfare Committee

Polonia Soclety of the IWO

man-Americans of Chicago

Proletarian Party of America

Protestant War Veterans of the United States, Inc.

Provisional Committee of Citizens for Peace, Southwest Area

Provisional Committee on Latin American Affaira

Provisional Committee to Abolish Discrimination in the State of

Maryland

(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)

Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLC)

(Bee Coralte Pro Derechos Clulles)

Puertortiquenos Unidos (Puerto Ricans United)

Quad City Committee for Peace

Queensbridge Tenants League

Revolutionary Workers League

Romantan-American Fraternal Society

Bussian American Society, Inc.

Bakure Kal (Patriotie Soclety, of Cherry Assoclation - composed

of veterans of Russo-Japanese War)

Bamuel Adams School, Boston, Massachusette

Santa Barbara Peace Forum

Bchappes Defense Committee

Schnelderman-Darcy Defense Committee

School of Jewish Studles, New Jork City

Beattle Lsbor School, Seattle, Washington

Serblan-American Fraternal Society

Serbian Vidordan Council

Bainto Temples (limited to State Shinto abollahed las 1945)

Silver Shirt Legion of America

Slavic Council of Southern California

Slovak Workers Soclety

Blovenian-American National Council

Bocialist Workers Party, Including American Committee for Fura-

pean Workers' Rellef

Bokoku Kal (Fatherland Bociety)

Bouthern Negro Youth Congress

Butko Sha (Reserve Officers Association, Los Angeles)

Byracuse Women for Peace

Tom Paine School of Soclal Sclence, Philadelphia, Pennsylvante

Tom Palne School of Westchester, New Jork

Trade Unlon Committee for Peace

(See Trade Unionists for Peace)

Trade Unionists for Peace

(See Trade Unionists for Pesce)

TTl-State Negro Trade Union Counchl

Ukrainian-American Fraternal Union

Union of American Croatians

Union of New York Veterans

United American Spanish Ald Committee

United Committee of Jewish Societies and Landmanschaft Fed-

erations, also known as Coordination Committee of Jewinh

Landsmanschaften and Fraternal Organtzationg

United Committee of Bouth Blavic Americana

United Defense Councll of Southern Callfornia

United Harlem Tenanta and Consumers Organization

United May Day Committee

United Negro and Allied Veterans of America

Veterans Agalnst Discrimination of Clull Rights Congress of New

York (see Civil Righta Congresa)

Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade

Virginia. League for People's Education (see Communist Polities)

Association)

Volce of Freedom Committee

Walt Whitman School of Social Science, Newart. New Jersey

Washlngton Bookshop Assoclation

- 3-

---

## Page 18

14-00000

CERTIFICATION

I certify that I have read the names of the above listed organizations.

To the best of my knowledge and bellel, I am not, nor have I been a member of, contributed to, recelved liter-

ature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any organization listed above, or any

organization outside the United States espousing Communist, Fascist, Totalitarian or Nazi causes, except as noted

To the best of my knowledge and bellet, none of my close relatives are, nor have ever been members of, con-

tributed to, received literature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any such organiza-

tions, except as noted below. meme

INSTRUCTIONS

For the purpose of this certification, if an applicant or employee is completing this form, the term "close rela-

tive" will include spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts. "Close relatives" of the spouse, for

this purpose, will include children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts.

If there are exceptions to this certification, set forth below under Remarks all pertinent information concern-

ing the nature and extent of your activities or those of your close relatives in such organizations, including the

names of the organizations, dates of membership, meetings attended, titles of positions held, amounts and dates

of contributions, nature of petitions signed jalling within the meaning of the above certification and circumstances

thereof, titles and authors of literature received, and dates on which received.

In exceptions concerning relatives, include only such information presently known to you or available from

your own records.

If necessary, use additional sheets and sign each sheet. Write none if there are no exceptions.

REMARKS: To be completed by Spouse

REMARKS: To be completed by Applicant or Employee

Date

Signature of Spouse

Patricia Ci. Mere=

adress — City and Stat

5/15 extin Lane. Data L

Witness

Ath Beaten

Address — City and State

1413 Coquions, Detaind, Leand

Date

Signature of Applicant or Employee

Divinita Micare

Address - City and Stat

5145 Kinéundone, Daiias. Setes

wines the Suhan.

Address -CIty and State

1613 Insenis, Titand, 2tas

-4-

155-

Ast

Bie tre

satan ranch -

---

