# 104-10072-10224

## Page 1

104-10072-10224

L/SLOTTED

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES L

SECRET

GROUP!

‹When Filled In)

EXCLUDES IAOH AUTOMATIC

DONACASDING ANS

ELCUSSFICATICH

BEPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

4

RAF

EY:.

DISSEM, VY 23.

120 PER-

ACTION UNTI

C/WH&

CTION NO

743

INtI

-# 2

FILE, VR

sop, cler,

SECRET 301726ZSSEP 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 12724

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

RYBAT HYSAGE MHFLUFF

30GE IN 4 35626,4

1. STATION MIAMI HAS BEEN TRYING UNSUCCESSFULLY FOR MANY

WEEKS IO IDENTIFY WHAT MAY BE TWO CUBAN ILLEGALS RESIDENT

IN THE UNITED STATES (NEW YORK, WASHINGION AREA AND/OR MIAMI.

THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AS FNU QUES A DA

ROMAN AND FNU CE PEDA. HYSAGE-I ALLEGEDLY HAS HAD DIRECI

CONTACI WITH QUESADA ROMAN BUT SEEMS KNOW LITTLE ABOUT DEPEDA.

WE ARE 98 PERCENT SURE THAT THE NAME QUESADA ROMAN IS AN ALiAS, AND

CEPEDA BEING AS COMMON AS IT IS LEAVES US NOWHERE• THERE IS

REASON TO BELIEVE THAT HYSAGE-I KNOWS THE TRUVIDENTITY OF

QUESADA, BUT SHE HAS REFUSED TO TELL US AND ADDITIONALLY HAS

PROVIDED CONFUSING AS WELL AS CONFLICTING INFORMATION ON HIM.

SORTING OUT HYSAGE-1'S STATEMENIS ON QUESADA, WE BELIEVE SOME

OF THE FOLLOWING MAY BE TRUE. TO WIT:

Ao HE IS 35-40 YEARS OF AGE, DARK HAIRI WHITE

SKIN, SLIM BUT STRONG BUILDS HEIGHI APPARENTLY

5 FEET 8'I0 10 INCHES (APPROX). MAY HAVE A BIRTHMARK

OR SCAR ON UPPER LEFT SIDE FOREHEAD. ON RIGHT SIDE

SECRET

9315

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DI3S36

ADVANCE CEOY

ISSULO

10c50n63

TOTA!

(When Filled I)

SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COFY FROHIBITIO

DISSEM. BY.

ACTION UNIT

RETION NO.

FILE, VR

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 12724 GEGRET

OF NECK AND SMALL BLUE DISCOLORATIONS OR SCARS

RESULTING FROM EXPLOSION OF A DEMMLITION DEVICE

IN VENEZUELA• QUESADA ALLEGEDLY A SABOTAGE

DEMOLITION EXPERT AMONG OTHER THINGS. WAS ACIIVE

SOMETIME DURING 60 IN SABOTAGE VENEZUELAN OIL

FIELDS.

DURING ONE OPERATION THERE WAS PREMATURE

•EXPLOSION OF DEMOLITION DEVICE WHICH PLANTED

SHRAPNEL FRAGMENIS IN HIS NECK WHICH STILL WORK TO THE SURFACE FROM

TIME TO TIME AND ARE EXIRACTED.

B. HE ALLEGEDLY SERVED IN MEXICO SOMETIME

DURING THE PERIOD 63-66 AND MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE

BEEN IN THE EMBASSY. HE WAS DESCRIBED BY HYSAGE-I

AS A SPECIALISI PROBABLY IN SABOTAGE, EXECUTIVE

ACTION; ETC•, BUT ALSO COULD BE A SPECIALISI VIS

A VIS THE AMERICAN DEPARIMENT. HE ALSO ALLEGEDLY

TRAVELLED TO PANAMA EIGHER LATE 63 OR EARLY 64

AROUND THE TIME OF THE PANAMA RIOTS.

THIS COULD

MEAN THAT HE MIGHT HAVE BEEN CONNECTED WITH RICO

GAL AN NOW SERVING A PRISON SENTENCE IN MEXICO.

HYSAGE -1 ALSO TOSSED THE WAR NAMES OSCAR AND GABRIEL

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

MESELISATIEN

ISSUED

ISLOTTED

EU MESSROT

ICIAL SONE

St01a37

(When Filled In to

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

3

AT:

DISSEN. DY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

FILE. VR

-PAGE 3 WH/MIAMI 12724S Eat I

AROUND AS RELATING TO THIS PERSON, BUT WE BELIEVE

THIS MAY BE SNOW. THERE IS SOME REASON TO BELIEVE

THE PERSON SHE DISCUSSED MAY BE ROGELIOR O DRI -

G U E Z LOPEZ WEO SERVED IN MEXICO CITY DURING

THAT PERIOD AND SPECIALIZED ON CENTRAL AMERICA•

ADDRESSEES WILL PROBABLY REMBER THAT ROGELIO

RODRIGUEZ, WHO LNERGO DESCRIBES AS A HIGHLY COMPETENT

AND DANGEROUS CASE OFFICER, WAS PNGED OUT OF NEW

YORK SOMETIME AGO. IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOUTH AFRICAN

GIRL. WHO WAS REPORTING ON THE DIPLOMATIC COLONY IN

WASHINGTON.. STATION MIAMI ALSO NOTES THAT ABELARDO

....

CUR BELO PARDON SERVED IN MEXICH ABOUT THE

* SAME TIME•

C. RE VENEZUELA: HYSAGE- 1 DESCRIBES HIM ONLY

- AS HAVING LIVED AS AN ILLEGAL IN VENEZUELA FOR

SOME TIME AND SERVING SUCCESSFULLY AS A SABOTAGE

TRAINER AND/OR IMPLEMENIOR OF SABOTAGE OPERATIONS.

SHE HAS SUGGESTED THAT HE WAS THERE DURING THE

MOST ACIIVE PERIOD OF SABOTAGE, WHICH SHE RECALLS

WASH DURING THE EARLY GOS. THIS MAY OR MAY NOT BE

-SECRET

&

---

## Page 4

14-00000

TOVANCE COPY"

ISSUED

I SLOTTED

MURIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

- GROUP

(When Filled In tenan

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIDITEO

2

4

DISSEM. BY

ACTION UNIT

¡ ACTION NO.

FER,

FILE, VR

PAGE 4 WH/MIAMI 12724& E

TRUE. THE PERSON IN QUESTION COULD JUST AS EASILY

HAVE BEEN CONNECIED WITH THE BRAVO GROUP IN LATE 60S

MIAMI'S RECORDS OF SABOTAGE OPERATIONS IN VENEZUELA

PRIOR TO 1968 ARE INCOMPLETE. CARACAS, THEREFORE,

MAY BE ABLE TO ISOLATE TWO OR THREE PERSONS WHO

FIT THIS GENERAL CRITERIA FOR FURTHER INVESTIGATION.

D. HYSAGE- 1 ALLEGES THAI QUESADA WAS IN NEW

• YORK CITY AREA AND MET WITH HER DURING THE WEEK OF

¿13 SEPTEMBER IF THIS ACIUALLY HAPPENED, IT MIGHT

ELIMINATE ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ (DEPENDING UPON HIS

PRESENT WHEREABOUTS) AS A PRIME CANDIDATE.

FOR HEADQUARTERS: STATION MIAMI WOULD APPRECIATE

RECEIVING PICTURES OF THE CUBAN COUNTER-SURVEILLANCE

PERSON WHO APPARENTLY COVÈRED HYSAGE-1 DURING THE

PERIOD SHE DELIVERED A LETTER TO PONCHAYS

HOTEL• BELIEVE BOTH HEADQUARTERS AND MIAMI SHOULD

STUDY HIM AGAINST THE MUG BOOK.

30 REALIZE THE FOREGOING IS MOST TENUOUS AND INCOMPLETE.

WILL APPREÇIATE, HOWEVER, ANY ASSISTANCE YOU CAN GIVE US IN

• THIS IDENIIFICATION

4... FILE:

290-6-44713; 56-6-4213.

GP. = 1

SECRET

---

