# 104-10105-10299

## Page 1

104-10105-10299

OGC 73-0947

30 May 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

SUBJECT:

Office of General Counsel Contacts with

E. Howard Hunt

REFERENCE:

Memorandum for All Employees from

ES/CIA Mgt Com, dtd 23 May 73;

Subj: Agency Involvement in the

Watergate Case

1.

To the best of my recollection, I first met Mr. E. Howard

Hunt in Japan in 1954 at which time he was stationed in Tokyo and I

was there for several weeks TDY.. I had no official business with Mr.

Hunt as I recall and the meetings were casual nifice or office party

meetings. I must have run into him casually from time to time there-

after in the office as some time in the middle 1960s when he had re-

turned to Washington he invited me and my wife to a cocktail buffet.

I cannot remember the year let alone the month and day but. I remember

the house was out of town in a rather secluded area up the Potomac.

2.

I do not remember any further meetings with Me. Hunt

although it is probable I saw him from time to time in or around the

office until 1969 when his daughter was in a very serious series uf

automobile accidents. This involved Mr. Hunt. in a complicated series

of legal involvements in which the Offic: of General Counsel tried to

give him legal advice and assistance.

Most of the work was done by

Mr. James B. Ueberhorst who left the Office of General Counsel in

1972 to become the Administrative Officer of the courts of the State

of Florida. We have queried Mr. Ueberhorst who said he has had no

contact with Mr. Hunt since working with him on these legal matters

except for a letter of appreciation from Mr.. Hunt for Mr. Ueberhorst's

efforts.

RETURN TO GIA

DO NOr POproduCE

---

## Page 2

My next contact with Mr. Hunt was a letter from him

dated April 5, 1971, stating that on his retirement he had elected

to take full annuity instead of reduced annuity with survivor benefits

and asked if he could now change his election. I replied in the

negative and he wrote again on White House stationery asking if he

could change the election if he were re-employed and I wrote that

this could be done but I saw no p.obability of re-employment at that

Copies of this excharge are attached. Some time during the

period of this exchange and certainly after my first letter of 6 May

1971, I remember running into Mr. Hunt at the National Airport and

expressing regret that I had to turn him down. He said he quite

understood and appreciated my interest and weni on to say he was

doing very well and recovering from his financial reverses resulting

from the daughter's injuries and hospital care.

4. My last contact with Mr. Hunt was a telephone call to

my home on 19 August 1972 in which he said he had received a call

from a lawyer in Los Angeles named

who had

been called to appear before the Grand Jury in Alexandria and was

concerned as to whether he might be questioned about a confidential

relationship he had with the Agency in 1952. I told Mr. Hunt to have

call me and I would handle the matter. My memoranda

Tor the record on this episode are attached. This is the last com-

munication I have had with Mr. Hunt. After his conviction and

sentencing I saw him standing on a street corner as I drove by and

I waved but did not speak to him.

5. There appears to have been one indirect contact with Mr.

Hunt in connection with a law suit about which we have no direct

knowledge. All we know is that the plaintiff requested some documents

and submitted a check which we returned as evidenced by the attached

copy of the documents involved.

6. Mr. Lansdale has a vague recollection of some business

contact with Mr. Hunt when he was on the CA Staff, possibly in the

1950s or a little liter. He has no recollection of seeing him in the

past eight to ten years.

LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON

General Counsel

Atts a/s

Orig - Adse

N: Watergate Case

- Chrono

OGC: LRH: mks

---

