# 104-10433-10037

## Page 1

104-10433-10037

This material contalns laloemslim aflertine the dathm Defense of the Liniteal Spute sithin the meaning of the Fabinone 1iws, Tille

18. U.S.C. Her. 393 and 00d.

the transicien or resolatin of shiels in any manner li an umuthorized serson la prohibiter ls law.

coUNTRY Italy/USA

SUBJECT

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther

King A

REFORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS

DAIE OF 28 September 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

1 October 1964)

70999465 607899

FIFID RIPORT NO.

SOURCE:

Comment: Given the source of the above report, we view.

it with

some reserve

In this connection, we noted the 19 September

issue of L'Unita, which reflected an article on King's private

audience with Pope Paul held the preceding diy. According to

L'Unita, immediatoly after the audience, in St. Peter's Square,

King stated that "Popo Paul was most clear on the fact

that both

he, personally and the Catholic Church support the cause of civil

rights".

The artiele also states that in a press conference held

at Flumicino Airport after the audience King

sald,

"The Pope will

shortly make a public statement on racial segregation'.

We have

no other Information at this time.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Si

Date 13 moul 1278

---

## Page 2

13-00000

•f.o

iG. Bet 1961

This material contins Information affecting the National. Delense

of the United States within the meanine of the Foyionase Laws. Title

18. U.S.C. Seca, 793 and 794. the transmission or revelation of which in

any minner to an unnuthorized person is prohibited. bs law.

COUNTRY Italy/USA

SUBJECT

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther

King with

Italian beitist

Personalities

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS

DATE OF

28 September 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE:

(1 October 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DIFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATUVE.

Previous

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 13 Gog 1926

Luther King, noted Protestant negro Pastor and "leader" of the

anti-racist movement in the United States, met with various

leaders of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and of the Italian

Socialist Party (PSI) on 18 September in Rome:

King conferred with PCI Senators

Vello Spano and Ugo Bartesaghi,

King discussed with the above-named politicians the program of

demonstrations against segregation in the United States,

which

are to be organized in Italy during the months immediately ahead.

Field Comment:

we noted the 19 Septembe

issue of L'Unita, which reflected an article on King's private

audience with Pope Paul held the preceding day. According to

L'Unita, immediately after the audience, in St. Peter's Square,

King stated that "Pope Paul was most clear on the fact that both

he, personally and the Catholic Church support the cause of civil

rights".

The article also states that in a press conference held

at Fiumicino Airport after the audience King said, "The Pope will

shortly make a public statement on racial segregation". We have

no other information at this time.

3

---

## Page 3

13-00000

1...

8.:8.1

stillies

ghlo material contains information affectine the Nutional Defense of the United sintes within the menning of the Espionse Laws, Title

18. U.S.C. Secs, 793 and 79d, the transmission or revelation of which in uns manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited hy law.

NO ЧЕННЕ

"DISSEM

COUNTRY Italy/ USA

SUBJECT

Meeting of Dr.

Martin Luther

King with Italian

Leftist

Personalities

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS

NO. PAGES

CLASSIFICATION REVIEN

REFERENCES

CONDUCTED ON. 287-08-1908

EL, Z IMPDET CL BY 0 0 1P-25

•DATE OF 28 September 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. Italy, Rome (1 October 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO. OIRT-06733

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFOSMATON SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DiFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TERTATIVE.

SOURC

Luther King, noted Protestant negro Pastor and "leader"

of the

anti-racist

movement in the United States, met with various

leaders of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and of the Italian

Socialist Party (PSI) on 18 September in Rome. In particular;

King conferred with PCI Senators Velio spano and Ugo Bartesaghi,

i too italian social a Part me Pollar an Unity (STUPI

and with, Senator Paolo Vittorelli

King discussed with the above-named politicians the program of

demonstrations against segregation in the United States,

which

are to be

organized in Italy during the months immediately ahead.

Field Comment: Given the source of the above report, we view

1t with some reserve.

In this connection, we noted the 19 September

issue of L'Unita, which reflected an article on King's private

audience

with Pope Paul held the preceding day.

According to

L'Unita, immediately after the audience, in St. Peter's Square,

King stated that "Pope Paul was most clear on the fact that both

he, personally and the Catholic Church support the cause of civil

rights".. The article also states that in a press conference held

at Fiumicino Airport after the audience King said, "The Pope will

shortly make a public statement on racial segregation'.

We have

no other information at this time.

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE 5

5

4

3

DENTIAL

BIN TATTTANY ПРОСТ!

---

