# 104-10170-10132

## Page 1

104-10170-10132 3

SECRET

27 February 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT

ATTENTION

:. Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination;

Dr. John M. Nichols

: Mr. George Musulin

1. Dr. John Marshall Nichols, a University of

Kansas pathologles, has testified at the Clay Shaw trial

that "Photographic evidence of President Kennedy's.

assassination was 'compatible' with the theory that the

fatal shot was fired from the front."

2. Dr. Nichols, born 28 March 1921 at Charleston..

Weet Virginia, was employed by the Department of Pathology.

Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, when

he was approved for contact use by the Office of Security

in 1257. He had just returned from a trip to Czechoslovakia

where he visited research institses and met with various

medical men. Office of Security records indicate that the

Contact Division of Domestic Contact Service planned

to debrief De. Nichols on this trip with scientific require

ments relating to this area on an ad noc basis. The

information to be discussed was classilied through

CONFIDENTIAL.

3. This office would apprecise any additional

information thal she Domestic Contact Service could pro-

vide regarding this proposed relationship with Dr. Nichols.

In particular, this office is interested in ascertaining

SE03I

$s:8

1+1r891g A:

806.1:8' 20149

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGRET

whether or not contact was actually mide with Dr. Nichola.

Li conface was made, we are also interrated in finding out

how long this contact was maintained and how many meetingo

were held. We also request copies of any reports for

which Dr. Nichole was the source.

OS

Dissribution:

Orig.

and 1 - DCS

1 . Garrison file

1 - ReA Chrono

---

