rod-10181 10126

Uppy

“ -
coeateatete SECRET

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

To + Chief, Contact Division,Atta: support (Crowley) Te. 22 oct 59
THY : Chief, Detroit office

rrom = B.S. Rittenburg, Cleveland Resident Agent

SUBJECT: Robert K. Webster

REF: Crowley-Rittenbdun; telecun of 21 Oct 59, same subject
Travis-Rittenturg telecon of 20 Oct: 59, sane wibject

1. un 20-Oct 59, Major Rober: Oochred ‘of OBI and iis probable Yeplace-

Rent in Cleveland, Major Carroll Edelen, dropped irito the office of the
Clevelani Resident Agent to ask oe ut Robert E, Webster. In the absence of

. both Rittenburg an: vere out on previc tly seheduled appoint-
ments, y ecked one of the gecretaries about the matter but vere told by her
that they vould have to talk With Mr. Rittenburg. . Coclran thereupon left the
following questions with the secretary régarding the Rand-Webster case, to
vhich he-said that “high level air force interests" wanted an answer. These
questions, telephoned to Bot Travis on the same day, are as follows:

8. “Ig, this office doing anything conceming Webster's: defection?” :
db. “If'not, do they contemplate doing anythingt" :
c. “What would this office have done if Webster had returned normally?”

2. Early on the 2let, after trying to reach Cochron unsuccessfully on i
the aftémoon of the 20th to find that hie line was busy, Rittenburg tele-
phoned the latter regarding this matter. Rittenburg had a secretary make

notes on the call, wnwitting to’ Cochran. Cochran's first question, after the~
usual "hello", was "Do you have the answers to those questions?” Rittenburg
informed him, "I don't know anything about this man, only what I have read in
the nevepapers". He asked, "Nothing official?" to which Rittenburg reiterated
"No, only what I have followed in the prese". Cochran went on to say tuat "It
tumed out it's not as bed as it looks on the surface. ie had no access to
classified material". During the conversation Rittenbur: informed Cochran

that he had tried to telephone the previous afternoon, bu‘. had found the tel-
epbone busy. le also expressed his regret that he had nt veea in for Cochran's
visit and pointed out that the latter should have telephoned abead. Rittenbury,

said that he was sorry that he couldn't be of any help in tue matter, to which j
Cochran replied vith “clest la vie. Well anything I can do for you?” When
told “Not at the moment", he stated, "If there is, call re", for which Rittenburg :
thanked ium before saying "Good-Bye”.
- 3+ Tt was difficult to understand why Cochran wuld attempt to make such a
an approach to the Clevelend sffice, let alone expect answers to suck questions | i
as he put forth. - itt
- Be q
_ JANES 2. MuRPIY '* wi A
ESAtttendurg:ns fete : eee gt 7 im
Cae gl a
File: Rober: E. Webster Sh 1 as
Rand Development Our. a , a7 :
Major Ry Oovhran, OST (USAR) ¢ » : x
3. fie aie
. g
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduee
