# 104-10129-10263

## Page 1

104-10129-10263

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CASE ANALYSIS

NAME OF SUBJECT (Last, First, Middle)

FILE NO.

RASCO (BERMUDEZ), JOSE IGNACIO

ANALYSIS

6-214 485

RASCO, JOSE IGNACIO

$248084 (DEL JUNCO (MESA), ALBERTO) 6/29/61, P. 4.

• ONE JOSE IGNACIO RASCO (POSSIBLY IDENT TO THE SUBJECT WAS MENTIONED IN THE

ABOVE CITED REPORT IN CONNECTION WITH THE MOC (CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT)

ACCORDING TO ALBERT DEL JUNCO, RASCO WAS AT ONE TIME IN CHARGE OF THIS GROUP,

HOWEVER, AT THE TIME OF THE REPORT, HE (RASCO), EXERCISED NO CONTROL OVER THE

MDC.

SUBJECT

+0-352028 (CUBAN SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES ABROAD, COSTA RICA) 28 OCT. - 10 NOV. 1961

- THE DIRECTOR OF A RADIO NEWS PROGRAM "LA PALABRA", JULIO SUNOE, WAS CARRIED ON

THE SHOULDERS OF NUMEROUS DEMONSTRATORS WHO SHOUTED HURRAHS IN FAVOR OF THE CUBAN

REVOLUTION, AFTER HE HAD RIDICULED A CUBAN COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY JOSE IGNACIO

RASCO (POSSIBLY IDENT TO THE SUBJECT) IN A NATION WIDE RADIO AND TELEVISION DEBATE.

SUBJECT

*0-351593 (CUBAN SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES ABROAD, BOLIVIA) 2-15 SEPT. 1968, p. 6.

- DRO JOSE IGNACIO RASCO, A UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR, PRESIDENT OF THE CHRISTIAN

DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF CUBA AND A FOUNDER OF THE FRO, STATED TO PRESENCIA THAT GUEVARA

SHOVED HIMSELF AT THE "PUNTA DEL ESTE CONFERENCE"

TO BE AN ARDENT DEFENDER OF THE

SOCIALIST SYSTEM AND THAT IT WAS EVIDENT THAT GUEVARA INTENDED TO CAUSE THE FAILURE

OF THE CONFERENCE, BECAUSE OF THE 45 PERSONS WHO ACCOMPANIED HIM TO URUGUAY, NONE

WERE TECHNICIANS BUT RATHER BODYGUARDS. RASCO ALSO TOLD PRESENCIA THAT HE ATTENDED

COLEGEO AND ALSO THE UNIVERSITY WITH FIDEL CASTRO AND KNOWS HE BECAME A COMMUNIST

IN 1948, WHEN HE WAS IN BOGOTA AT THE TIME OF THE RIOTS IN THAT CITY.

SUBJECT

#0-350653 (DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY FRONT) 9/13/60, P. 3.

- IN JUNE 1960 THE FRO (ABOVE FILE) WAS FORMED AS AN ALLIANCE OF FIVE ANTI

COMMUNIST CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS, THE MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATO CRISTIANO;

ONE OF THE FRONTS MAKING UP THE FRO WAS HEADED BY JOSE IGNACIO RASCO BERMUDEZ.

THIS MOVEMENT WAS COMPOSED OF PROFESSIONAL MEN AND STUDENTS.

03

DATE

2 FEB. *1965

2062 1147 USE PREYIOUS

ANALYST

GROW 1

Incheded from antamate

downgradag me

Page Lof 1

PTH:MUF O

SECRET

181

---

