# 104-10320-10036

## Page 1

104-10320-10036

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Melbourne

CUSSIACATION

INO.

FROM

Chief, far East Division)

SUBJECT

SQUIB/Request For Release of Warren Cornission Document

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PROCES: NG ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILAL

FOFINI has been requested by an hustralian newspaper

editor

(Attachment A) to release the Warren Commission Document

920 (CD 32y1s Attachment B) which relates to anonymous telephone

calla to the Canberra Imbassy et the time of the assassination of

President Kennedy.

His request was turned down. As you probably

know, there has been mounting public pressure to release classified.

documents of the larren Commission. While no decision has been

made to declassily CD 37D, 1t 15 tighly pussible we will be saked

to do so in the near future by National Archives, which has

official custody of the cocuments, or by sone higher authority.

2. Melbourne Station is requested to diecuss Paragraph

One above with SCUB/) alterhis return to Australla. " The SQUIE

scIvice 15 mentioned in Paragraph 4 of CD 971 and release of the

docuner. Is certain to provoke questions in Australia, Since

CD 971 15 a U. S. Government document we need not (and should not)

request SQUIB concurrence for relense of the document.

He should

be informed, however, that release of CD 271 to the pulic domin

is presently under consiceration; that the United States Navy

has no objections; and that we are giving him advance notice a

a matter of courtesy.

Any views volunteered by SQUB/D regardiag

this release should be reported promptly to Headguarters.

[Charles A.

RAMBO

attachsente:

Ai.

Lotter.

u/s/c

B.

SD 371

u/s/c

Distribution:

2 - cos, Melbourne watts u/s/c

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FANT) 3636

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201299248

DATE

19 August 1968

HOS FILE NUMBER

36-1

---

