# 104-10166-10146

## Page 1

104-10166-10146

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY WAR

08

SUNECT (Intelligence lAceivilion of the

Al-lasts Trading co

S-I-C-B-LoT

MOPORN/OOUT INUED CONTROL

119a NO. 65-3/469,737

DATE DISTIL 13 Seprember i9ó0

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RD.

DATE OP

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.ANT

ruse-July 1960,0,9

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE

CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE.

08

Headquarters. Comsent.

Game I sourCe.

Thi sireport nupplementa CS-3/427,619 from the

• ,«д.а"

In June-July 1960; the profits of the Al-Neely Trading Company were being

08

transferred (to a special government fund for financing clandestine operations.

The VAR Government vas aleo employing the company for 1ts "1ilogal" trans

actions, such as trade with France, en the tanis of a commission fee of

10 percent. An Era lan security efficer)is reported to have said in Jine

that the company has been shipping arms from Suez Canal ports to south (?)

Arrica for distribution in African countries for use by anti-Buropean 10-

ti. Colonel Muhaad Chants, the director of the Al-Nastr Trading Company,

vas reported to have engaged dr

2881gment as manager of the Mol Companyi ta Bedrat. 24 lag illa previous

Headquartero Comment. Probably Identical «1tt the Nile:sublicity

Agency.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

5/g70

---

## Page 2

4-00000

NO PAGES.

11504

AMANCEs: 80-33

alienso

DATE OF

Daccaber 198, 9

MACE A

JATE ACOL

HELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE EVALLALIONS ALL DEFINITIVE.

MPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

sourcE [da AuerIcan (8i, Iron an afflesal of the Israell MasoLty Of DeseRte (8).)] 08

Appraisal of Content: 3.

Headquarters Corrent. In vien of the artela of the Information, 18 must

be read with en reserve.

IDO EEXPLINA SITE, A-HaNIE' FrAdInE CUEpeNy, LEsEhOr say Do cOllaboratIes?

/with UAR Intelligence or van establisbed by the UAR Gorernment to finanse

m11s tary Intelligence operailors not covered by the regular budget.

08

(pays) and dogs not appear to touch the profita as the company. l)

Do ' It. 0010nel Chanim 10 runored to bure sald he vas Instrumental in the •

organ1z1h5 of the Belait irising for walch purpose ie used tie nige of

Muhannad al-Haarl, Is has ministeria: status and belorza to the innos

eircles of UAR Preefcent Jamal 'Abd-Al-Faalr. (Mi Amediate superior 18

06 LAmad Kherert.) chanta maintains an eccount in lie name at the Banque

"Genevolse de Comerce et de Credit. la traveled In Western Durope during

November 1959; vas In Geneva, Switzerland on 1 November;

in Parts od

§ November frun where he vent to Brussels after a fev days.

• 3o

The Al-Nasir Trading Company 18 chiefly engaged 1a the marketing of rice

and cotton.

Cotion exported by the company, on the basia of government

allocations, l6 beven percent of the total Egyptian export in this fleld.

The firm 10 represented in Geneva and Paris by the Esatern Company over

which it acquired control for the purpose of cotton export. One of 1ta

managers 16 'Abd-al-Aila lisayal, tho makes occasional businees eripe to

aurope.

Ishaamad ATenin, had opened an account in the Banque: Genevoise de

cornerce et de crediti

This report stated that Chaulm had been 1n

a 17 oveaber.

Hovember 1959, In-Parts,on 11 November, and 1n Brussels

on

S-E-C-i-E-T BUFORN/ CONTIKUED CONTROL

INSA

"#")

REDBIRT

INFORMATION REPOR

41970

---

