# 104-10100-10310

## Page 1

104-10100-10310

HE/ 37BEXICO

5940

2% 0CT. 1963

ERXICO CITY

SECBET

201-355939

JAWA VE

R

1!11A, I1S J, 50

ARXI

INS JMWAVE

79070

ILY FIXE COZO (IN 45573)"

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

FEZUMEN

1. SUBJ REF WAS GRANTED POA 7 MAY 1963, 201-356559. REQUESTIN:

€ FONTES EXTENSION OF FOA.

2. FYI: POL HAS ESQUESTED WHEN EOS ATTRIPTRO RECHMITUENT OF

SUB THOUGH

RUBART ASSET AND CLOSE FRIEND OF

SUBJ WHO NOW RESIDING IN FOPRIEE.

RECRUIFERNT PITCH WAS MADE IN

ITTLE SITIES TO SUBT BY

AT 9Q8 DIRECTION.

ATE LETTES TO DIS FRIIND/QUANTUM 55 iN FEE 1903 SOS ULTIMATE

FAINTER, DELIVITY TO SON IN FITTEN. FE DO FOT KNOW AT THIS TIME

FASTESE QUANTUR S9 EVER FELIVED THE LETTER TO SUBJ. IN ANY EVENT

SO EIFLY FAXI SUBJ CAS SEN RICHIVED 5X

TO DATE.

HAS ASSHORED SUBS AS FOORABLY SSING IN OPPOSIYION TU THE

GILE IN FORTIN, AD AS FROZIGLY WILLING TO COOPERATE IN A

JAKETIE I

MEETING OPALAT ION.

3. IN VISE FACT MAXI LAS CUCCESSFULLY ESTABLISHRD CORTACT WITH

WEEN GERATIONAN DAVILOTMEIT CY BUSY.

(OUTED)

COONSIMATINO OFFICERS

RILEADING

CROUP!

Exctaded licon artersalt

00:1078:00:09:060

AOTMINTEEATIG

REPRODUCTION DY OIHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

PACK 2

INru

1. LOS TRACHS CA BUZY INDICATE PDOB HAVANA,

THAT I ATTEND ET AND COLLEGE, ET BEAKARO, ALIGARA, 108:

TSAT LES AFTED CSOGIR TECH) IN 1648; AND THAT ON/2 JAN 1949) 195

DAS ENSLIDED FION AMISSION TO USA AT MIAMI USCAUSE HE DID NOT

HAVE A VALID VIBA.

3. SINCE SUBJ EAS ACCESS HIGH LEVEL PEBULEN OFFICIALS AS

WILY AB SOVS AND MR AFPARENTLY HAS AGREED FURNISH INFO, REQUEST

REXI FINCHED TO DEVICP THIS OP OF FRIORITY BASIS. PLS CABLE

DEVELOPALATE.

AND OF LISSSAGE

Cuba,

Earles.

BA3/573 P.

Trestin (1n draft)

IN And

8.

Go

ARERRE

" AEFRODUCTION GY OTHER THAN TRE ISSUING CETICE IS FROMISITED.

Pittand t

BERRARD

ES ICRHANDT

43/1/3

IDENTICATINE

CED

Cres Pila

-

IMIT

---

