"SUBJECT °° -: | Beheiren and the Four U.S. Navy Deserters |

Headquarters United States Marine Corps; and Chief,

= of the Japan “Peace for Vietnam" Committee (Beheiren)

caSsFItON RE

SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
id "WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Honorable Walt W. Rostow
Suara _ Special Assistant to the President

i

fe 1. The following information n'Behetren was compiled.
by ‘a representative of this oo comprises
his personal interpretation and kn ed :
and covert information available to our Station (3.
as of 20 December 1967,.: Copies.of this memorandum are

being. furnished to Directar, Naval Investigative Service;
Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Department of the
‘Army; Deputy Assistant Secretary for Security, Department
of State; Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation; Chief,
Counterintelligence Division, Directorate of Special :
Investigations, The Inspector General, USAF; Commandant,

Counterintelligence & Security Office (DIACI), Defense
Intelligence Agency. This report partially answers DIA
letter S-4845/CI-4 of 29 December 1967 and oral_requests
of similar nature’ from the Department of the Navy.

2, . Summary. On 13 November 1967, when the leaders

dramatically. announced at a press conference in Tokyo
. that four. U.S, sailors from the aircraft carrier USS INTREPID
had deserted their ship. because of opposition of the Vietnam
War, the name Beheiren suddenly assumed a degree of prominence,
The four sailors' successful flight to Moscow, with Beheiren
aid, where the Soviet propaganda machinery proceeded to ff
make capital out of this windfall, has kept Beheiren in the .
public spotlight in succeeding weeks, The incident has 3? ie
already stimulated a new would-be defection case involving a?

tno Ballora on Yokosuka U,S. Navy Base, and Beheiren

eve

oa 10

“CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

fonda an 1)

Uaenes ch ey

eX



future U.S.

| aa Pe Following is information on Beheiren and its involve~
. ment in the case of the four, U.S. Navy deserters, : i

ae

itself has tried to keep the "desertion mood" alive by :
organizing a new group to promote and aid the defection of

On Associations (Zengakuren) leader “in the 1960

SECRET

military servicemen in Japan, End of Summary.:

*

Origin and Development of Beheiren i

(1) Founding: Beheiren was organized in ee

April 1965, nominally as a politically inde~
pendent group of intellectuals and cultured
persons whose purpose was "to help restore
peace in Vietnam," Actually, it is a loosely we
organized group of ex-Japan Communist Party...
(JCP) members, progressive intellectuals, é
- leftist. cultured persons, and leftwing students —
banded together in the namé of opposition to the_.
Vietnam War by two common. denominators; dedicated
anti-Americanism and refusal to be dominated or
‘controlled by the orthodox JCP,

(2) Hard-Core Secretariat: The real force
behind the organization of Beheiren has been
a brillant Communist named YOSHIKAWA Yuichi,
whose conspiratorial organizational Skilis have .
been perhaps the most indispensable ingredients

in Beheiren's development.” YOSHIKAWA was expelled i

from Tokyo University for his role as an All-
Japan Federation of Student Self-Government

X.S.-Japan Security Treaty riots, He then went
“into full time JCP mass movement professional
work, becoming the Secretariat official in
‘charge of international relations for the Japan
/ Peace ‘Committee, YOSHIKAWA broke with the JCP
in late’ 1964, following the rupture in relations -
between the JCP and the Communist Party of the

27>~Soviet Union (CPSU) in May that year, The inspir-

ation for Beheiren springs in large measure from -
YOSHIKAWA's personal desire to use his organiza-
tional talents “in countering the JCP and its
Japan Peace Committee. YOSHIKAWA, in addition
to being a well qualified English linguist him-
self, years ago surrounded himself with a small
following of similarly qualified lieutenants,
whom he brought along into Beheiren to give him
the necessary depth and experience-to run this
new organization. YOSHIKAWA functions as
Beheiren's Secretary General.

SECRET. -



ee 70 y

(3) Respectable Intellectual Front: Following”

: "fundamental Communist principles for mass move-—
. rment work, the ex-JCP organizers of Beheiren:.<=%: :
Kept themselves ‘in the background and Lined up
a number of prominent Japanese progressive

/ intellectuals and leftist cultured persons to
“front for Beheiren. The choice of ODA Makoto,
ex-Fulbrighter and popular young novelist, jto +.
be the Chairman was a fortunate move for ae
:.. Beheiren... ODA has_ taken to this front work

_ like a duck to water. It has given him a

chance to give unbridled vent to his own latent
anti-American feelings, puffed him up to the ~~
extent that he has been dubbed “the emperor"

by other Beheiren activists, and given him at
long last an ideological mission to pursue. é
; YOSHIKAWA has performed magnificently in tceding
ODA's ego needs and in. infusing and indoctrin:
ting ODA so that his words and actions take on
sufficiently. virulent anti-American overtones.
ODA has seryed another vital function for
Beheiren by “recruiting a. sizable number of
fellow intellectuals. to join the ranks of
Beheiren activists.” (See paragraph 4 for a
listing. of a number: of those Japanese who have
been identified as active eaaeaae supporters
or sympathizers.) =

(4). Organizational Development: In its two ;

and one-half year history, Beheiren has not ney

changed appreciably its organizational format,

although it has moved its office three times :

and modified its'name even oftener. Beheiren F; :

‘is not a "mass organization," because it has Beg |
|
!
t
|
|
H
1
t
i

had no sizable- popular backing to the present
, time.. Its.hard core, secretariat organization
is run by YOSHIKAWA and his lieutenants, ‘Its
public image,-intellectual front is led by ODA,
and given body by a score of like-minded intel-

- lectual friends of ODA and YOSHIKAWA, who form

~ the loose body of Beheiren's activist leadership,

. Under this Beheiren leadership superstructure’

lies a base of only several hundred Beheiren |
"rank-and-file" supporters, mostly young Japanese |
:, Students. Organizationally, Beheiren has no

. formal membership system, so its base of support~_
ers is fluid and not precisely measurable, 7
However, the base support for Beheiren has

ee SECRET. |



“:- churned along at its own pace, with a continu-

e- : we

See

definitely been on the upswing during 1967, and -
made such notable strides during the past summer
that JCP Headquarters officials finally felt
constrained to note with concern that Beheiren
was beginning to drain off a growing number of
progressive youth who otherwise would have been
absorbed into the JCP's own youth movement,
Beheiren leaders have tried to help this growth
along by. setting up a youth section, calling it.
"Young Beheiren." Beheiren's imaginative actions
and publicity-conscious programs have been

.¥esponsible for its recent growth, and this Tas

period of growth seems to be now on the verge
of really gaining momentum. As a result of its
role in the case of the four deserting. sailors,
Beheiren has reaped bountiful publicity, has
succeeded in touching-a delicate Japanese’ public
"Merve. of sympathy and pacifism, opening a flood-
--gate of support for Beheiren from all over Japan.
When this' case fades from the limelight, it is
still most likely that a fair percentage of the
current wave of popular support for Beheiren
will. solidify into permanent mass backing,
-- giving Beheiren, for the first time, a meaning-
ful base to support its future activities,

. : a:
~5 (5) Activities and Accomplishments: Beheiren
-.-has engaged in a number of propaganda actions,

“ and participated in international anti-Vietnam
War activities, It has tried to cooperate with
certain front activities in Japan controlled by
the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to
‘Investigate War Crimes in Vietnam activities,
which culminated in the Tokyo Court of August
1967, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed
by the JCP, In spite of this, Beheiren has

ing series of anti-Vietnam War actions, most of

them related in some way to the American pacifist ~

movement, In this regard, Beheiren has succeeded
in cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese
contacts with U.S. pacifist movements and
effectually capitalized on this to-.promote its
own action program. The case of the four
deserting sailors, while an apparent lucky
windfall for Beheiren, only points up the fact
that Beheiren, through past organizational work

and promotional activities, was ready and capable

- SECRET



14-00000

(unique in Japan in this regard) to take the
ball and run“with it. Beheiren ran all the way
and scored its most notable success since it was
organized. (Paragraph 5 contains a listing of
Beheiren's more notable activities since its.

founding. Paragraph,6 is a partial listing of
foreigners who have been in contact with or

cooperated with Beheiren.) Yet

The Case of the Four Sailor Deserters and
£7) TCS Bo rea EEE

(1). How It Started: The consensus of ali

indicates that the four sailors voluntarily left
their ship, went AWOL, and ended up wallowing
around Tokyo's hippie-land. Precisely what
personal grievances prompted the four to embark
on this misadventure is not known. But, up to
this point, the four could fairly be categorized
as misguided youngsters, gone astray in a foreign
land, and due to get slapped back in line with
traditional Navy justice. when they finally
decided to stop the fun and go back to the ship.
So far, this made their case far —— unique.

(2) How It Became an Incident: ‘Instead of
returning to their Ship of their own volition
or being apprehended by the Shore Patrol, the
four made contact with Beheiren leaders. Again,
press reports indicate that this was just a
goincidence, that there was no pre-planning by
“the four to contact Beheiren, There is no
available reporting that indicates otherwise.
But, once the Beheiren people made contact, they
: recognized. the potential Esoiiieanniannd and moved
fast for, the kill, : :

(3) Beheiren Takes Over: When the four made
contact with Beheiren, it suddenly became an -
entirely different ball game. Beheiren had
everything needed to capitalize on this:. veteran
activist leaders who are experienced enough to
recognize the windfall that had come their way;
an apparatus that could provide hiding places
for the four; long standing liaison contacts
with Soviet Embassy officials for use in plan-
ning exit from Japan; solid contacts with

3)

SECRET

N
-available press reports, with no recorded dissent’:

nn Seren

——



14-00000

ECRET a

- reliable American pacifists with whom.the bona”

fides of thé four sailors could be checked;
money and organization to capitalize on the
propaganda potential (such as preparing a

‘ movie film for the initial Beheiren press con-
ference announcing the desertion, prepared more —

likely. than not by Beheiren stalwart KUBO
Keinosuke, an independent film producer); and

English speaking activists capable of sympathiz- :

ing, encouraging, soothing, or agitating the
four young sailors, so -that there Would be no
turning back. .

. (4) The Beheiren Apparatus at Work: While
; many of the small pieces of this puzzle, which

would put the whole case in proper detailed
chronological order and eliminate speculation

on minor points, are still missing, the follow-
“ing elements,. all part of the Beheiren appardtus,
» make up the bulk of the picture: :

“>~-(a)’ Hide-out: When Beheiren got hold of
the four on 26 October, they had to be
hidden out for the approximate two week |

+ period until their exit from Japan could
be arranged, This presented Beheiren no
great logistical problem. A number of
the Beheiren activist leaders have homes
well suited to harboring fugitives. For

Mitsusada has a villa hiddén away in _
Chigasaki, which was used on the night of

suitable for hiding the four deserters.
Other private dwellings, belonging to
and Kansai (Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto) areas.
(b) " Beheiren-Soviet Liaison: Beheiren

periodic contact with Soviet Embassy
officials for years, Beheiren Chairman

source has clearly established that both

SECRET

_12 September for a meeting of about 20 top
Beheiren leaders, and which would be highly

Beheiren. leaders and loyal supporters, are 2
‘scattered throughout both the Kanto (Tokyo) ~

Secretary General YOSHIKAWA has maintained

*. example, Beheiren activist leader FUKASAKU. i

ODA has met, Soviet Peace Committee officials
iin Moscow. In the case of the four sailors,
: ‘information provided by a reliable sensitive



14-00000

weed eaiia
_ SECRET aici

YOSHIKAWA and Beheiren American collaborator
Brian Victoria met with Soviet, Embassy Chief
‘Press Attaché Nikolay V. Vasilyevich and: .. Geass tee
First Secretary ser ~Anisimov on ~ eave
30 October. This meeting was urgently wo
requested by the Beheiren side, to discuss

“an extremely important, extremely delicaté {
matter," without doubt the case of the four }
sailors, : og CauiunniTirereey deere eetEt|

(c) Beheiren-U.S. Pacifist Liaison: Beheiren ° |
: contacted Dartmouth University professor ina
Ernest P. Young, who flew to Japan on
8 November, apparently helped Beheiren
“leaders check out the bona fides of the
deserters, and returned to the U.S. on
11 November, : Geena

(5). Escape to Moscow:— The four deserters turned.
4up.in Moscow on 20 November, The press’ has- 7

speculated,widely and unanimously thatthe four

‘left Japan on the Soviet passenger ship BAIKAL -

‘on 11 November, Again, there is no dissenting

; opinion, overt or covert, The only mystery

. concerning this final phase of the Japanese
portion of this case concerns the mechanics of .

: how the four boarded the BAIKAL and who assisted

in the maneuver, - But with the sailing of the

BAIKAL from Yokohama, Beheiren completed its

most highly successful and beautifully executed

activity in its two and one-half year history.

, Not: only did Beheiren smear the United States

f= Government's image in Japan, gain a vast amount

. of priceless publicity that will swell the ranks

of. its supporters and be invaluable in future

i, activities, but Beheiren doubtlessly even made :
a profit, financially, on this low budget operation-~
‘donations are still pouring into Beheiren head- ~

+ quarters from all over Japan to "help and protect
U.S. deserters." - : ff

(6) New Deserters:; The successful flight to
Moscow, through the good offices of Beheiren,

has already stimulated one new would-be defection
case in early December, involving two sailors
from Yokosuka U.S. Navy Base, and prospects are
that more. will follow, Beheiren itself has tried Y
to keep the "desertion mood". alive by organizing Hi

SECRET

a



Hoo USEORET | fee a

\ anew group: ito. ‘promote and aid defection of °
. future U.S. ‘servicemen in Japan. Beheiren *
Chairman ODA is now preparing to depart for. qeesce:
Europe in order to contact and study European
anti-Vietnam War and. deserter organizations.

4. Japanese who have been identified as: active Beheiren
supporters or Sympathizers: ae eared

YOSHIKAWA Yuichi ‘(Behei:
JCP ‘member, :
ODA Makoto (Beheiren Chairman) - popular novelist.
-KAIKO_Ken-- Akutagawa’ prize winning novelist.
einosuke - film: producer and director.
TSURUMI Shunsuke - Doshisha University professor.
UME Kazuko - sister of Shunsuke (their ft ther ‘is the
. late philosopher, Yusuke); ~
—RURUYAMAYoz0.- rhigh.school.teacher,
O_ = ex-JCP (tried to travel. to U. 8. to représent
~Beheiven at October 21 .demonstrations this year, but
- -was denied a visa to enter the U.S.).
YAMADA Atsushi - ex-JCP. .- :
‘UKUDA Yoshiyuki -:playwr tex
TOMINAGA Ichiro = cartoonist;

FUKASA) sada - professor...
. Mie designer. :
-TAKADO Kaname. — Christian’ leader,
YOSHIDA Kiju - film director.
‘UMIHARA Shin - writer, cot
- Buddhist ‘p:

‘HOTTA Yoshie - novelist. : o ee
poe itognkt = scientist, ~. ease
AR ARA dakeo - professor at Kyoto University. i

MOT! kazu - assistant professor at Tokyo University.
_ DARE Roe a ofessor at Tokyo University, © 0:

TRUE Yosbly writer,  ~ ee
_. WSURUMZ_ Yoshiyuki - employed 2 at ‘International House in oe
iB Tokyo. a : He

Secretary General) - ‘former

.TERAI Minako, : > KOBAYASHI. Toni ree YAMANISHI Eiichi,
“ANAT Fumihiko,

samu (Shu), YASUDA Takeshi,.
; Z : KURODA Hit KURODA Hidstoshi, _ YOSHINO Genzaburo,
ui, . MARUYAMA Masao, YOSHIWARA Koichiro,
FUKUTOMI Setsuo, MIDORIKAWA. Toru, OKAMOTO Taro,
: i MIZUSAWA Yana, MATSUMOTO Seicho,
ANDO Jimbei, MORITAKL Ichiro, “EI Rokusw! Rokusuke,

SECRET



14-00000

ISHIDA Takeshi, SHIRAT Shimpei, -

SECRET

CHIBA Hido, MUCHAKU Seikyo :

EGAWA Taku, ~ | _° . HURAMATSU Hiro,

| FUSIT Nittatsu, NISHIO Noboru,
HARIYU Ichiro, ROMURA Koichi,*

- HOSHINO Yasusaburo, OGOSHI Teruo, .

: [CHIT Saburo; OTSUKOTSU Yoshiko,

“ TKEYAMA Huro,; °° SERJZAWA Tae, . ,

KANAI Yoshiko, ~ . SHINMURA Takeshi,
KASAI Seiichi, --. SHISHIDO Hiroshi,

-KATAGIRI Yuzuru, | SUGIURA Mitsuo, °-

KATO Shuichi, ‘SUGIYAMA Tatsumaru,
KAZAMA Michitaro, . SUZUKI Masahira,

MATSUURA Sozo TAKEUCHI Yoshitomo
* KQDOKORO Masao, WADA Nagahisa,

“.KITAKOJI Satoshi, ~ YAMADA Munemitsu,
- KOBAYASHI Shoichiro, YAMADA-Toshio,
KOMATSU Sakyo ’ . YAMAGUCHI _ Kosaku ’

and followed by nereet marches,

Democrat; © Society.)

USSR, Pakistan, and Mongolia.

Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir.

SECRET

. KATO Yoshiro, eae

_ODAGIRI Hideo,

: SENO Kenji,
” SUZUKY Wichihiko,

oy MARUYAMA Kunio,

Regular once-per-month demonstrations at a public
park in Tokyo, consisting of oaicaiiiachasieni Speeches

An all night TV "“teach-in" with Beheiren activist

. leaders, along with special guest, U.S. pacifist

aril Oglesby (Chairman of ene Students" for a
Oe

“ A £ull page advertisement in the New York Times
(16 November 1965), followed by another full page
‘ad in the Washington Post (3 April 1967), appeal-
“ing to Americans to Stop the war in Vietnam,

A "Meet ‘in. Conference of Two Nations for Peace in
Vietnam," held in Tokyo in August 1966, and -
attended’ “by, Beheiren activists and seven U.S.
pacifist leaders (including Dave Dellinger),

and observers. from France, England, Canada, the

A mass meeting in Tokyo in October 1966, guest
speakers of which were French pacifists, pt.

Nationwide tours of Japan “for lectures and peace
“" yallies for such anti-Vietnam war pacifists as

IZUMI Taku,
AWAYA Nor iko,

SHIRO! Saburo,
TAKAHASHI Taketomo,

Minoru,

KUBATA Hanya,
SHIN INOHARA Seiei,

TSURUSHIMA Setsured ,
MURO_Kenji,

KONAKA Yotaro, ae
SAKAMOTO Yoshikazu,
SAITO Mi Masahiko.

.



- SECRET : oe

Professor. Howard Zinn and the late ALL ituste
of ‘the Unite ates, Claude Bourdet ‘of France,

and Thich Nhat Hanh of South Vietnam,

A m mass meeting .in Tokyo in January. 1967, _sponsored

- by Beheiren and featuring - a. Sore singer and |

pacifist Joan Baez. ernie $7
7

. A continuing program of direct distribution of
pamphlets to U.S, troops stationed in Japan,

and those coming ‘to Japan on warships, and for
rest or hospitalization from Vietnam, ™

Participation by two Beheiren activist leaders
(Kyoto University professor KUWABARA Takeo and
- International House staffer TSUR iki
taking advantage of a trip to the U.S. to attend.
a non-political Japan-America Congress on
‘Cultural Problems) in anti-Vietnam War-Speech’
rallies and demonstrations at Dartmouth University .-
in early May 1967, followed by an unsuccessful. +

: attempt to invite "Cassius Clay to visit copes
on behalf of Beheiren. ~

Continuing efforts to bring to Japan for a
nationwide speech tour on behalf of Beheiren,
Soviet poet Yevgeni Yevtushenko, an effort that
has not yet Eeeehed=tru reson Oet is still
pending.

: Participation in the Stockholm say 1967 "World .
Conference on Vietnam," by sending two. Beheiren
activist leaders as delegates,

Cooperation with the U.S. Quakers, pacifists,

and Earle Reynolds. in sending the yacht "Phoenix"
with medical aid, first to Haiphong, then on a

.. Becond trip in the Fall of 1967, seeking but
.failing to find landfall to deliver medical aid
to ‘either North or South Vietnam. .

Attempted, but failed due to inability ‘to obtain
U.S. visa, to send a Beheiren activist leader

(MUTO-Ichiyo) to the U.S. to participate in the ae
21 October 1967 anti-Vietnam War demonstrations.

a

10 5 a : nary

‘SECRET



14-00000

SECRET. 8s

Currently carrying out a fund raising campaign

? to send an aid ship to North Vietnam... In this,
and other activities, Beheiren leaders ate main-~
taining ever closer liaison contact with their |
. counterparts abroad, such as the French "Comite'’.
Vietnam National." In an effort to generate
public support for this aid ship fund .vaising
campaign, Beheiren succeeded in issuing a public
appeal under the endorsing signatures of Tokyo
‘Governor MINOBE Ryokichi and Yokohama Mayor
ASUKATA Ichio, as well-as the cure intellectuals .
ASUKATA _

Supporting Beheiren. :

In October 1967, Beheiren solicited approval to
- hold anti-Vietnam War demonstrations in front
of the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo, expecting to be
denied and then intending to make this denial a
court test case. Instead, Beheiren was given
this permission, and conducted two orderly and
well-publicized demonstrations in front of the
American Embassy, garnering a larger public turn bh
out of participants than in any previous Lciclhdathaas
sponsored demonstration.

Assisted and abetted the defection to the USSR
of four. American sailors fromthe’ U.S. Navy Bice
carrier INTREPID. Following this success, ‘
Beheiren's most effective activity to date,
Beheiren leaders are organizing a permanent

.. "underground railway" of Japanese. intellectuals
who will volunteer their homes aS possible "way
Stops" for hiding future U.S, military sneicheeciamadlat
that Beheiren | now hopes to induce,

>» 6, Partial listing of American and.other “foreign persons |
known to a been in contact with or Goveeratta with Beheiren:.
a ‘ :
: Americans

/ ay Staughton Lynd. (ex-Yale protessor)

(2) Norman Mailer (novelist)
—

(3) Dave Dellinger (Editor of Liberation) |

(4) Howard Zinn’ (Boston U. “professor) |

(5) Donald Keyes (National Committee for. a
Ce

setict



(6)
“oq
(8):
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)

- (13)
qa)

(16)

an
as)
“a9

(20)

~=@n,

(22)

A. a: Muste, a deceased)

Murray Levin (Boston- uh. wrofesscr)

End the War in Vietnam)
(15) ~

‘Tiperationy— ae

_activist)

-fteconverted" Buddhist priest, known to be in”

SECRET a

David McReynolds ee War Réesisters"
eague)- 7 SSIES Ser eecairereartr prnee

Karl Meyer

William Davidson
Bradford Lyttle

Charlotte Thurber
_

(Miss) Quentin Bassett “(Students tor a,

Democratic Society)’

Robert Ockene (Veterans and Reservists to i:

cari Oglesby (Chairman, Students ‘tor ay
Democratic, Society) (until 1966) z

Barbara Deming (Associate editor of.

Joan Baez (fork ey

Ira Morris (aris expatriate) *

Otto Naisan | (Phonetic, New York cry peace

Barbara and Earle. Reynolds (divorced ‘put
Separately active Iang-time residents in
‘Sapan) .

Willian R, Christensen (an American ‘pacifist ipesoriees pa
drifter, who gave Beheiren its first

experience in the summer of 1966 in exploit-
ing for ptopaganda in Japan, and then in : a
arranging the onward journey of -an American et ae
who wanted to defect to the USSR) nena :

Brian Victoria (head-shaven pacifist and

regular contact with the Soviet eess in
mony



14-00000

- SeORET pon OE x

(23) be Willowby (tna, phonetic, "chief of the
i e Action movement in the An 8.")-

(24) ° An” "unidentified American of Japanese descent,
Pe from Hawaii, who is currently a student: at
- _ Waseda University ‘ .

‘ (25) * * Kosaku Yamaguchi (reportedly born in ‘Us.,

E present citizenship status unclear--formerly
was a professor at Momoyama University in
Osaka, but has been teaching at the University
of California in Berkeley for some time)

C
Other® ‘Foreigners

ce) Mikhail Kotov, USSR Goviet Peace Committee) -
: @) Se eee France (French Committee to”

Support the Vietnamese People)

= cSCI-3 16/00079-68

Def Intelli
: efense Intelligence SEGRE

@). Peggy Duff, Great Britain (Campaign for
, Nuclear Ee eeeeencee

. Pais ined Fai, Pakistan
i (6) Gabita. Muslepov, USSR © oo
@ Mrs. Erdenebat Ojon, Mongolia
-(@) Konstantin Shugnov, USSR

09) Francis Marcel Kahn, France (Comite! Vietnam
jationa: . 3

Pa do) Jean: ‘atl Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir (Franc

Thich Nhat Hanh, South Vietnam

‘Thomas H, Karamessines:
Deputy Director for’ Plans

Naval Investigative Service
Department of the Army

. Department of State

Federal Bureau of Investigation :
, Directorate of Special Investigations of the Air Force
“Headquarters United States Marine Corps



14-00000

_CSCI-316/00079-68

DDP/FE/JKO/Dianne Schellin:pjm (4 January 1968)

Distribution: : Z set : .

. Each Addressee ee

C/FE

FE/JKO

FE/JKO/JO

C/CI

CIOP/FE a

CI/LSN : Lis oa

CI/REA
~& per

1

trrete

et bal bal bal bat ed et

