# 104-10069-10359

## Page 1

104-10069-10359

ONCLASSIFIED

" CENTIAL

SECRET

SECON-IS

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

JUBJECT: (Optiono!)

Current Address of Kaurice Halperin

FROM:

Chief, Cortact Division (Support) Stuntz

TO: (Off. cer designation, room number, ent

building!

DATE

EXTENSION

2258

OFFICER'S

INtmALS

HECEVED:..

PORWARDED

#H 729

131. DEC 52,2

MaMENts (Wunbe eoch comment to. sher from wh

in thor.

a a line paross column eftar ench come.

I am garding this to the folion

TEW

SR/CI

CI/ LN

Security

mago

4.

5.

i contact licent pid Sting

7.

9.

10.

Come wheit fib

WH729=

S

12.

13

14.

15.

FORM 610 USE RENOUS L SECRET

→ L CONFIDENTIAL.

1. 720

INTERNAL

USE ONLY:

L UNCLASSIFIED

#09254

---

## Page 2

14÷09000

SECRET

0043) 3,246.933

W SYRO 8.060

21 Dece

er: 7962.

subject: Current Address of Maurice Belpertr

1.

A source of this office has just advIsen us. unst ne rucelyed

& Chrlstmas card (1962): From Maurice alperts on which the return addre

our source have: known each other for a number of years and they always

exchange christmas carda. This to the firet one Helperin has sent with

& Cuban address on 1t. The last time that our source saw Helperto was

In Moscow then he (the former) vas vielting in the Ussr during Auguste

September 1961 as part of an official UB delegution.:

In view of Halperin's past activities and associations, ve are

making this information known to you." Our source coments that Helperin

always seems to show up wherever there 1s sone, sort of activity, going on:

end"

CIA INTERNAL-UNG

SEGRET

BH-12,9

---

