# 104-10146-10309

## Page 1

-..

104-10146-10309

#SCH

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Friday - 10 March 1978

1. (Unclassified - ME) FOLA/ LIAISON I returned a call received

yesterday from Joan Merlo, in the District office of Representative Sidney

Yates (D., Ill. ), concerning a Privacy Act request on behalf of a

constituent, Mr. Richard S. Jackson, Jr. I explained to Ms. Edith

Engelhard, in the absence of Ms. Merlo from the office, that Mr. Wilson

had written to Mr. Jackson on 7 March explaining the delay in processing

his request and stating it may take another two months before the search

is completed. No further action necessary at this time.

2. (Unclassified - JMS) LIAISON House Select Committee on.

Assassinations staffers visited Headquarters to review files.

3. (Confidential - LIM) LIAISON Representative Bob Carr

(D., Mich.) called me raising further questions on the Sami Esmail

case indicating that he had finally succeeded in getting information from

the FBI and learned in the process that it is normal procedure for the

Bureau to advise the Agency when an individual of counterintelligence

interest leaves the country. Mr. CarI's interest is if we were advised

by the Bureau in the instant case and what we may have learned as a

result.

NE Division, has been advised and is reviewing

the files.

4. (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Discussed with Jack Brady,

Chief of Staff, House International Relations Committee, the outstanding

request we have from the House International Relations Subcommittee

on International Organizations.

5. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Ellie, in the office of

Representative Norman Mineta (D., Calif.), called and arrangements

were made for me to meet with the Congressman at 2:00 p.m. on

Friday, 17 March.

21364

GONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

