rost0169-10017]

CA = 205°
2 April 192
Chief, Task Force/W
Cater of Station, diciAVE
Overational/oxnoce
Fal/Vertice Tres 7 oa
o

2. Cn 32 March 19¢2! 1
orn 12 Decenber 1933, a Denk employco, HWical address: |
RO telephono, vas intorviowed. '

2. Soures enid bo vos a rember of SAC, FAL ond Vortico Tres ("ma
Third Positzon").

A source sata that iC (Catver a Ciba) vas Controyed by Gibea
, security forces.

k, Source sold that or (Fuerza Antt-Comnista és Liberacion) is
well organized, the best orcgenized boing the forcea in Pince ¢ol Rio
Province. Me caid that PAL bes. se-e exmo ond excuniticn, end is en action
type. eau conspiring to proveke cn uprising onl cutting off cozmnicas ~~

- Source wes reluctent to nok eny “FAL contact, but finslly nencd

04 Bena: “Pere jon Porezjes o conteet mon. Ma wid that bo ewuld arrenze bona

with Parojon, ond ho was told thot perhegs in the future cozzone ©
vould call upon him end introduce thencelvos o3 "enicos de Icberto” and
@iscuss th io in further detail. Ie creed. Jo onid thot scm months
ego lore FAL sent outimicrofilecsd maps ofcwing ultas for lending arms end -
@lso ito propoodd caching sites, but he did not mov to when this anfomae
thea vos yasned.—~ .

5. Gource said that he was alco associated ee ores, ond
doseribed this orcgenization as boing > ec=posed of inteliectunis end
U "profosoionsls. its miooion is not eletr boceuse en he doveribed it ene
"et the functions is to explain the horrors of the Cezuniot syste: to the
wagses by the adoption of a third position. Vortice.ts also intoreotod in
fore subtle approachss, such as industrial slowiewms and schotogee The ©
. grpbnsia, howover, sypeara to be on proprconta end he said Vortice is on
the point of obtaining a radio plant. lo vos aoked If this voo a “pirote ”
Fesio", ‘but ho roplicd no, that 1t would remain on the air co that it could,
we heard. Whon askod about the Diing protlens, ho said ho voo told by on
enginoor vio 4s vorking on this project that it yas a “Dolte dyotem Radto'
@n4 thoy vould not havo to be efratd of IVing. (This docs not make sonce,
Seb tt vas ell tho source know on thio subject.) : 2

~ "Gy: Routes end that Yortiee taceds supplies, ‘euch as Minox easeras
Wut be vould nob cr could not give the nung of « Vorbion contoct in lk


CA ~ 105
f rece 2

Ho cote there 49 a Vortice contest in Niort, Coremio (1m) ena elthouch
Bo dla nos keoy the ‘lestreao or eférssa cf Corervo, ho wes coirg to try
gn leccte hin, 13 was evain routnéed of ‘the “chicos” wno would cola, aheiect
om hin for this inforvasion. i

: 04, 0
' % Source cata that before he left Ciba ko rot vith Esccte Carri2t0,
j the niece ef Justo Corr! Ske told hin thet Justo cent ina message
eoying "Do cereful with thes ae (ooeecgtalested tie source to cot in touch
wlth[ou 9 end tell hin thet at ie oa

he 8 Gena the eotatle.(, the thacht Gusta & tucssce was confusing. caseeneaaae
Source caid that "Flavio" 4a tho wer nos Tor” lo Taxque who elco uses _

z "cna “Hanolite." Source sald thet it is Dolicved that the noma”
Evelio Dugus is in itoolf a vor nema,

8. Source taentified Arturo Golri, on cealeyce ef the Fationel Eoxk, zed
Agonota ke20-10 » Lirca y 0 Vedaéo, Kcbona, 03 & solf-amtttca torhor of

G-2, Arturo to ebout 32 yoara 1d, vilto, atoety (cdout 190 pounes), 5°
tall, viite, black beir end hes a leree mustaches: a

‘ at the bon, Dut becauca of his G-2 posit:
BS Brestign and catered to by on.

