# 104-10194-10009

## Page 1

104-10194-10009

13

MUST SELECT COCHITLE ON ASSASSIATLORS STIPP CO2R PERS

FILL UTILE/AMBER/OLNE: CROZIER, ROSS

Harold

INCLUSIVE DATES: _/ N0X1949-94481963

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: Office of Personnel

ROOM: 5E 13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

may 15,1928

TATE

RETURVED

REVIENED TY

(PRINT NANE)

Betsy fAhmER

REVIENING OFFICIAL

Bitey Palmer

NO DOCENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REVOVED FROM THIS FILE

Sage

sist

44

A 10165-3;

---

## Page 2

ta-tended

BAB!

39-488

ARIOBANDEI FOS: CA101, BOBOlIS aDd CONVIOO DIVIDIOn

TELEODCA

l Cales, Desapon Rapperal Pivision

1. Gnod1sa811188 61 8057169 - 5009 f. Crosles

1. Subjent, a Caroly Agent eeprently nesiguad to dogsial

aboat 10 August 1988.

in the fisal rovich of ale reparts, it

me anted that Crosier had apparently toe deserrantly easogey

1nod ai a contraet "goad" AnTIRE a period 01 Dartico essomdiag

Pron I June 1049 througa 81 Bay 1699.

fo costure the elease

on In the 111o9. no hav atserpted to obtata 120 tosg licay of

nobjon's forar ever bit, mermatoly, a mader as ta

could not to leontified snd orasia ars aot availablo at Brodgartere.

8.

As an alternativ, ma have entratod copies of carry

spondsaco contained in Croster', &1la unios va bollow provide

Agonsy arts the ported to gunsie.

offlotal cover das sas

8an enturo ported do uner pertien as a

Palat), Do Posad 1188Jo evideos es regular offlos Dours or day

Irsogularity of houra and a llaitod anount of

ployses vortina undor the sana sypo ol conos. lo have, ou tha

other band, correspondance thied rovel a dogss of Airessies and

control-ineledias propocalo for tralains, reasoleone, and pado

ale ocatrastes! alasta

of Indopondost contraoter.

8.

aro astashlig a roame of stateronts endo in the

corrospondenco referrod to, vita doglos of tho coproggendansa ite

Doll, to mubaranIate tho store. Oa Bra basis of tbore sesserenta.

18 la roguessed that Crosler's pervies dren I SuO 1019 BArONS

31' Bay 1951 bo doszed to havo bosa la an exployou status and banco

croditable for anneal leavo purposso.

Crod18ab1l18y for C1011

Baptice Retirmont,

ve endoralaed, sond to linited to the persod

1 Juno 1949 through 31 Doceabor 1094 Jiano amandanato to the Secial

paully lot procluda astending aul erodisability lo contine

mployona boyond the your 1066

---

## Page 3

2000 8

4.

Alco airaebod de a seplered Fara 144, 0u8abl1sa1as

3a9 Beynatod Berlos, Computas dea $a86

sale renact to aparares.

for loav purposes, should

Bernand Fitaterald

Cales, Besial AlfaUra deat8

calor,

DATE

Distributien:

..:*

Stg. & 1 - Adiressoe v/att

= Cales,

1

• BABAR.

Contsest Partental diviases u/e/ats

HAP/BAS/IXRBOUNEL

Vja1

9 August 1963

---

## Page 4

ABeschaent Bo Borso AB: 09-438

Blege mmy of 8ha statenalo 110çod Dolor sofor lo Groeler

Dy DansdOnsa (o1d) er Blaply sa "saljent" es "fo", so are coreleying

thas all ol thora entrate porsala 8e Crosler.

Claçassa De. 1858, 30 BV 1919, C9108 OS 88A8100.

180 Bedgiastoras

an de darate: statea

no do not fost and control

nd dimation of dis sotlyl8len vill be any probien

Dlepaßes Bo. l

1-809, O Anguat 1010, Calos es Stattea, I

to Evadgrrtere:

by ein"

Binaten &

-0D, Con July 1981, Cala8 e8 5t98100.

Asa6grar39re!

Bestertero

71818, CIre A991) 1088, Cial of 8808100,

1.80 Ecatgestera!

sarassà maßloss. A (Conser) la 0039019381023, Dar

erites, loyal, lengientivo, and Barmblo to eNFory1a1on

Diegated de.

ENR4898, N0 JURO 1889, CAROS OS FASSON, L

Etire diapason diesenas Snagers'a penaible asuleses

to Argastina os Fanaala.

0a010021 3080,

88 Ja 1006, 01r00805

• 6A C210s 0s 5908100,

Ale ccarniando der Aisenalion so 0322 an pezaible

---

## Page 5

Page 8 08 ABBONE.

Dispates Be.

an Elen.

80 Dared 8008, Es

Cales 01 68031, Do, 0eai

legatvalent to a 9s13) 80 Bes cruivalen

Marless 80

---

## Page 6

14-00000

& July 10sa.

ADiS JOBs. Calef, Coatraet Poreessal Avision

1 SOrRiRa810n 0l Ca8Fao8 - Barold B. FOXHATA

N lo roquented that the contract for Curers Agrat

BArOld 2, BORATA, DA aMendOd, 01100817O1 JUNO 1008, 20

fOminated Has close Of DustRoNA 80 Beptender 1801. Subjest

mo serteed el cale sormantion en 1 July 1009, and 8ho do daya

Besarl notice roguinal by mra. 10 (a) 08 the ensemes.

enpiros ca 30 deprenter 1003.

Doszose 118n Ossa 1d

BDP/8A8/PERSOTHRL

Distribution:

Crig & l - Addresses

1 - B48/Parsonnal

Rect

(3 July 6S)

---

## Page 7

14.0000

Co

P

SECRET

13 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Finance Division

Chief, Staff Agent Accounts Section

THROUGH

: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT

Reassignment of Career Agent -

Harold R. NOEMAYR

This is to advise you that Career Agent Harold R.

NOEMAYR was reassigned PCS from JMWAVE to the Washington,

D. C. arca on 2l January 1963.

Chief, SAS/Support

DDP/SAS/Personnel/

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - C./CPD

1 - SAS/Pers

_J/kct (13 Mar 63)

SEGRET

GREer 1

63 109905.93 2a:

---

## Page 8

14-00000

COPY

SECRET

13 November 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT

:

Application of Premium Pay for Certain

Contract Personnel

It is requested that the contracts for the following

named Contract Employees and Career Agents be amended

to include,

in he applicable paragraph, the following

provision:

"You are herein authorized Premium Pay in licu

of overtime in conformance with and subject to

the policies of this organization. "

BLAINAUSE, Russell J.

DELLAROCCO, Peter V.

GLAVASCO, Philip D.

HEARD, Bruce R.

STUART, Jennifer A.

TARTARILLO, John K.

TARYDINA, Jacob C.

CADICK, Irving G.

•-NOEMAYR, Harold R.

DEVUONO, Irving G.

SLOMAN, Henry J.

LAURENKUS, Marvin A.

STARKROOD, Kenneth A.

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

Chief, Task Force W

APPROVED:

Director of

Personnel

Date

DDP/TFW / Personnel^

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/TFW

I - TFW /Personnel

/kct (6576).

SEONE:

sara

---

## Page 9

14-0000

CONTIDIIFIAL

0070n

HOTMAXER HACAN R. OPI

BALA MAY

ABOES PAY

EF9.

$0OB40

P. L CA

& late a

I diet and wate

atos

BRATA PAR

8 115

DEAR PN

F. а

# A8

8128 ENCE.

BEST A29

I CALITY DUP THY MORY OF TIE ABOVE BANED XE 0F AN

ACCUFRAME LIVE. OY CONT TO

Ду 23.06€ 63

390.ya5 529.420

TRON

street

100 Ma 12a

CONFIDENTIANGI MIG SEEN ONES SP

---

## Page 10

14.00000

CONFIDENTIAL

NOSMAYER, MAROLE B.

()

CAREER AGENT

89, 718

eu pral 1800199

$%, 235

$9. 875

idade da il

de 22 March 61

---

## Page 11

14-00000

89 saperados 1912

• 122108 Modes sarano ses Certala

erranteastsa."

ELLE

Chies, t/

1388 (29 Betonter 1962)

Blatrihutlens

Colganl à 1 - 10005

P.P.D, sud 602

11) tschul

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SiSTORANEM TOI COALIDAR, CS ÀJORA Posal

Su JECT

1 Corsor Agarta of Dr

Mo ront r salo dado di2 y, de, doad n oraica

About Career Agesto

Taat Fores Mi

E (EENATI, ROMLA BOO CONS, P ATS (DS7E)

Do CADTEI, JEVLAS 0O, Q915, 87S,750 (841V3)

Oo SVƯỢNG, DIVIN 00. 0383 613,35 (20473)

i1221en B HATVE:

esal, Tast Persa "

Diotribaßion!

Otadral d 1- Addressas

1- Persennel

J o Bab foot Fllea

---

## Page 13

14-00000

19 Mete I

JOa

Career Aguid Ranal

• sendenis e8 Barell B. Reso

Prefend 2883

10 do metalgalal Gun Lesgue will monie

Such €

my copses

So Go fie

taster Bandaglere Sanatra

Alstreetless

Origland & 1 - Aldrasse

1 - CAM

1

- c//4

1

Isis (15 Esplestar 1962)

---

## Page 14

Fit attalion

M.. Harold A Hoemeye

Dear Mr. Foesaays!

do represental by the Contracting Oftleer, allostiva 1 Jase 1991, an amonded.

motive elone of Daninods 10 Sino 1901, laas partles el Paragraph two 03)

milod "Compansation' which pertalas lo the authoriaalion ol sodiloaal compen-

"alloa la the amonni el 200 por moata la dolotod la 1i0 easirety.

• All otso, torns and exaltilone ol the contrael, as amondod, somala la

fall losse and ellent.

JUTAD BEATES COVEANMENT

8f Cenirseling Gillees

---

## Page 15

As, Barold & Noemys

Doar Mr. Noemays!

Balersaco la mede to jour Borros mies to lItal Elatoo Covereal.

so roprodental by lsa Contragues Oillor, ettocura l Juna 195%, an amendad.

Mostire alono ol bustsens 10 suno 195di thas portles el Paragrapa two (2)

endsled "Compensalles" whica portalns lo to ashortaallen of addillonal compos.

pettes la lho amonas el 190 per ecats le deleted da isa ectisery.

All olses sosas and condilleno el the sociraol, no sanded somala la

fall force and effeel.

UNITED TAIZA OOVERNMENT

Centranting Olleer

---

## Page 16

14-00601

29 June 1961

PEHURANDUM FORB

Centreet Personal direles

interest of Contrent, esos el Maraid i. RESUIR

Il 10 portsted that the Continet for Bubjont, an anted, be

furthor aiundod to disconiinus dent partion of tha "Componaation" sootlon

vidah states "Yon vill rosim sailtional compensaties, anouting lo 860,00

APPROVID:

---

## Page 17

AST. HAPeld & Neemaya

Door Mr. Forayer

Rolaraaso de mado to pear consrant mits sha Ualled Bosses Covermont.

sa reproscatad by sso Contrastes disloa%, edettiro l fess 199%, so anondodo

Escotte 8 santary ill del lo cadaza tor the terallen el your eurrent

aholgoes, pregmas too (l) el easior resirest esteled Composasilen" 1e

amendod lo authorise additional sempandallas in the amount el 800. de per

month ta recoyidlien and eempensation of the lergales, nocheduled and

frostel outreat el beara of day eror and adore is rogular and dally

All osas to roo sad conditias el lso sentract, so sisendad, romato la

Ball fores

aes ellect.

TUTES STATES GOVEINMENT

---

## Page 18

Mr. Harold R. Noemays

Dear Ma. Noomayes.

Reforonce de modo lo yeurcentreet with the United Stalés Goverument,

no representod by the Contracting Oldeer, ellectin l Juno 193% an amended.

• Electre 8 Japuary 1961 and to continuo los the durallon ol your current

aslammont, paragrapi ino (3) el abjaci centrees, entilled Compensalien li

amendod to authortne additional.compensalion in the amount ef 880. 00 por

month in rocogulton aod componsades of the irregular, unschoduled and

frognont roguirement of houre' el dusy over and above the regular and dally

All oar cores ned conditias el the rossrace as scanadado romala lo

fall loro and elbert.

UNITED SIATES COVERNMENT

Coassesting Olileer

---

## Page 19

4 May 1961

AFF2C/EE

---

## Page 20

Mr. Harold R. Noemayr

Dear Mr. Noemayr:

Reference is made to your contract with the United Stares Government,

as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective l June 195%, as

amended.

Effective 15 February 1960 said contract, as amended, is further amended

by adding after subparagraph (c) of paragraph four (4) entitled "Allowances"

the following:

"(d) You will be entitled to a home service tränsfer allowance in

conformance with applicable Government regulations."

All other terins and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain

in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY_

Contracting Orficer

SUBMET

G80UP 1

accept Mrs astenatic

#id.

---

## Page 21

Mr. Harold R. Noemays

Dear Mir. Noemayr:

Reference is inade to your contract with the United States Government,

as represented by the Contracting. Officer, effective l June 1957, as

amended.

Effective 1 Vay 1958, said contract, as amended, is further amended

in the following namer:

a. The first sentence of subparagraph (ü) of paragraph four (4),:

entitled "Allowances", is revised to read as follows:

"In addition to the above payments, you will be entitled to an.

equalization allowance compited in conformance with applicable

Government

regulations and policies. (For your information,

theequalization allowance for Mexico City is presently $000.00p"

b. The following subparagraph is added after subparagraph (c)

of paragraph five (5), entitled "Travel";

"(d) For you, your dependents, your personal automobile and

your household effects between permanent posts of assignment."

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain

in full force and effect.

You will please indicate your approvid by signing in the space provided

below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMEST

BY

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Harold R. Noemays

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

states to elem

---

## Page 22

Mr. Arthur G. Vaivada

Dear Mr. Vaivada: •

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government,

as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective l June 1957.

Effective 15 April 1958, said contract is amended by revising the

firet sentence of paragraph two (2) entitled "Compensation" to read as

follows:

"In full consideration for your services as i Career Agent,

you will be compensated at the rate of $7570 per annum

GS-12. "

All other torms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain

in full force and effect.

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the space

provided below.

UNIIED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Arthur G. Vaivada

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

.....---

680W

---

## Page 23

14-00000

Mr. Artaur G. Valrada

Dear Mo. Valvada!

Rofirenco lo made to your contract mies the United Staton Covornment,

as rositedenied by the Contracieg Ollicon, olloclira l June 1137.

Efloctive l Junn 1957, anid contrace la amended by adding altor sub-

parograph (b) of Paragraph for (4) enticed "Allowancoe," the followings

"(c) You mli be entilloi lo an educational allovanco le

conformánco with and as the ratoo prescribed in applieable

Covernment regulaliece. "

«octo

All orbor torme dad coodliono of the contract romaia da full forco and

UNIT LU STATES GOV IANMENT

BY

ConErscliog Oli

APPROVED:

---

## Page 24

14-00000

AS0. APTOGS U. VAÍNAdA

Dos Mr. Valadas

#oferenca lo mado lo you centract vita era Unisad States Coronamont.

3o roprononiod by lo Contractl:g Dilicos, ellectro 1 Angaot 19B0, no amonded.

• astA cortrais, as arzonded, lo horaby

The Caltol Saloe Careratai, in reprode:les dy lo Contractlag Ollicor.

Beroby dO: +88100663951101 jou perricee bod CRroer Agost andes 1ão

followina sarme and condiringo.

mone la do portermando al cubrina urdos ilo agrosmeel your loga alasua

la tans of a Coveranon gaglojos indes contrari.

do esch, yon are daciclod

oaly to tho righto eriuliegouno bacodea veijalasad batoin. ll lo underorood

@averomes:,

but you mil! sa a'uljori 1a alielaidrogrivo dod aperaddonal diract

lose and conirol by do Gomercias! la sil lloras.

Compensalien. la lali coroneralleados 1019 005-1000085 Car000

Agont, you sill so compensad al the polo ul dé190 por dangãa, C9-11, la

additon, yon alli ba otlilod to pithis grado porrantiona ln a conos almilar

BO lo procedan proucIlied lus carIos Bill esplogodo. la lea orgas

Chas so palasy losal al poco Indicior guada la Mlono1 by Federa, legioleion

and adoptod by lo Carazaran, lo linpisla:lo ausaoriada cador ralo

contraEl oball be diorod ascariagio, lapionio alll bo sado boronados so

direcad by pos la solling la a masonr ascegegido lo 8ho Coreareas.

Taroa- (a) Da 8àe Oren: biese a50 nos adschold by paur coror dasluty

of la te orona yo copor la illir piballis dasos on dely port of the compa..

balon des you bereander, Bar Looorensena.

lo man al recurity conaldoratione

carsbio mostos dos vos under lia noncope9 in so enona: egulinent te tus

Vasted $10100 lacome 80x Tienel:rg D:00 lun 1a96d ures yous rarable decemo

nador thie agroomos: and

pIdoor 6a0598901(9), Same de webhold by

W-8 m!l Do laosad pos by llo CigarRoul dal pou DiL Do Inotrood so to 69o

sothod lo be fallamed la matlog listaly tiline di saturas, astimotos dad pay-

misasa la ordar so preaneto saiurity.

Bi El las cores insauderatlona por la paymonta escoad yous

apeà sas labilir usdar this agriena:l, ilo Cir:nn,098 sil maho aspropelal?

801M0US01011988 200161060 Win Disidente 90216100 909 590606198.

informarde mila sal in los sa:ca 5940:ed.: sio Siancer11501 Reguialors

Miaver unient Cirilia-o, Fosola die 8a).

Enciacea Moy dalenalis

---

## Page 25

(3) 13 Addisina do lo abora paymenio, you mull Do sasilled

to da egoalination alloriano escala.ad a: 19a nal0 11 32180 300 AND TiS

Blatanco lo to lion ol any provosa o7 1a8are alridas diand pose allerano

estabiladed los pana proacor perman pour el dily ovorasta, bot lo ethjier

so uncareded and agreed ta: the dianames le predicted e9 10 enr

anédicial cavor, family diarue asd inde ranposantion, Coresquasly, ello

alloriaco sy be milorarally adfuried on digesorte. ond by 130 Cavasarest

Do roguired for PO DISTaEBO.

Trawal.

You pill so advanced er animind tid aula lea to forevlas

(a) Joe you adona los dursor l roTallad 2049). lo odissos.

Coreramon ratoe los to asthorian unidla: a80 al year jolvaco 0880-

(D) Open the nailerserory confialias nt 0818. 580 (8) 10408 61

einst posa al duty ens goose to your clare of runried routdanco la tho

orreena, presided, lorever. Case you hive falllod ay sibar soguira.

seats relestag do homo losre thira sle spallable lu Ontarasnoss 60011

0s0167000.

(6) Upas the suecouotal enougladon of yes dolphed nodor dade

agreemon der yoa, your depontansa, pon hasseheld aucto tad you

printo automobilo luna gers pannarni just el Miliates; orerieso to

Tos eull bo enrielad to pay dhara da los de arbaloney lo le ecaros ol dil

soeval portermad berender sad, sion auberlaod. les you aless ebile on

lumperary defy enay lem your porahuan post ol nudiyasace. All Braval

treasgoptados and per don prondad des wing illa juagrast muribe

BrODOTLY SUDOUINGS ANd IINARINA MOUIIA.I HICCSTAY 490 9131018 10 20y0029

Pão tolal amoses el seed isiebradand un as postir taten dorn any monion

dus you ender too tarma of this cantuart:?, ruch sannot do 18 dansas sypeop

---

## Page 26

6. Bosorro. la: Too mul do ostilled le doass end eldebillsy besafito

ogall to shoso aurboriaed seder la posersi fiarioo Composiallos Acl.

ADD. 8001-1015%

(8) Teu till de onuillod lo sica ard andusi doaro aqual lo sed

punjore to the damo pulos dad repalacano aparcadia lo coraramens etall

amployo0r. Brant ananel leano mary oriy No talan ti lians sad socos agproved.

la edrance by appragalmo rapiosonosos al sha Corramell. All aceruad

Dos usuper lonvo oarnod mor pesp contract ales tão Unlod Sensos Corarament

ofloetivo.) Angue 19s4, sa amondad m.! De irlenio'rod lo your beave Decount

undar thio agrpomont lo costorminco m'" artillahed erodiilos procodurss.

Trom poe congunsaior cale you peroaant to thie cose

• 1/71) for doposie and a moival esodusy to the Clrii Sorriee Rotreme

Pend. ll ite enrallrinas di yose coru? TaIpali si localee thal you made 608*

telburlona to laa Social Losarity lund, Am: comerhiticaa eball ba ai foit

9.

Covar.

I0 lo antespatoé tas you auli aniertaba certein cover emplay.

somat tn tão conada di 70ur pertormento sados tula sgracononl. la la expredaly

Endoperoad and agrodd pal eny sad nii cortesala malco you ruay assouto In

dão course al sach cover arplaymodi tre duar clare to tale agronment and

nay contradistin in torma ohice may is sny day amplito, anterd on poetrlet

pena siglas nad/or obligarlora hora ralar soa do repalmed by late agresmazi

satas aball alsaya de damiais.

80.

dry and ali comporastios, niloracod er ethar boionta.

(inchastag basellio la bad) roseirad trom as sipoug) pour cover salivlites

mill do usal to aflues aremlo duo pou undar this corarael and will reduce

occerdiagy tha corupemonte direct pararei obliga: ra boronador. Gena se

oftoos ano pagaral by la Corraser: under tua cosseae! and dor parposas ol

Podornl desane tastos.

Tou win sejor aroso sis lof mecthe during te

deres el ila agtobosam all baselite a rotrai los or thraug you? tovar

desestlandid, 1l duct hora les peira: clube ito pos mudor tais contrace. Eho

ropors ulid bo accompatied by 191d cs-cre amoro, maica you horaby auren

rallure so sobele simeiy reporto aud

93 SPOPIDIA, ОТОЛЕ DANO!S, ¡А! ЧАЛі 12 LaЗ0ЛО О0 0! AY DOyI

asy tre asoreldo ito daole alell la roçalie payremi over la le o8 tho emala

monto racelvad ly you irain os carough yem sarr activitias malca sould

otormino Do dinel an deseribed atora.

ir sect cando the Govorereut will

pag directly lo you lhe esquiurrais cadiod dor fy 11:8 205a8568.

11. BENCOSTOn 8! DOCUROCL. 18, 1N 15O DO:iO:RiONES Ol BOPMEOS BOSOY

saio comirect,

Jerond lo prosariy a any sabre mia s0o:ae all atoretor dieuto, maich

propesty baa 1u lace boda perchadod sus masiro el de 0. 6. Covaraen.

aunar exproon or éviiimira, so jo: saire ta areeus mberava? documente

---

## Page 27

ned all lain, maidon males you may dies a by rodson boront (undoss raioneed

malatson a ouch cocrecy may orgici jun lo trinisal proodcplica under toe

ESpionAga LooT. daid 25 Juso 1549, so saraadad, sad sinor apsueeble lawa

and pagalscions.

brigang, iratalis as osher visa boo a pha: o! lie conteset and aro incorporarod

barels, pronided past sueb daat-riano are nor lnernaloose with do lorrao

Prairbor nod Coralimoso je promise or commitmena perialaing

so piglo, printages as besales citor teen dors osproosly a:pulatod la

malay la due spresmant of any amour ret terato shall do biadlog en tho

Coverates.

1B. PERT. Tali maRras li dipiriva na dl

Bad chall sentiano thornsier lor sa iourtinio period intoas oronor earmlestad

(a) miltoni prop notles sy lo Caretarias, da lão erons al l brosca

• die contrast by mme tones 61 the docurity 30d1alane D0z001 or

Derves.

to Curereson poo till ast ta asticed 10 lo travel aspensee dot loria la

paragraga lie (5W8) ouges. Torainesion el ila syronmose u11l not reloade

gos rem 1e chligationo of 19y cocurity pass you may be rogured to lado.

• CITED BYATES GOVERNMANT

Olicor

ACCEPTED:

APPROTED!

---

## Page 28

14-00000

30 Bonsaber 1901

MEANIN FOR, Cont80r8 Parosal DiviBlea

Perrus to Wa/Prizes, M. Junl, 190s quartere do. eut. 9350.

No inn trinsteired POl le myl en 80 casabar 1961.

ary Toda ba will ba pala firea alletpaas 02135-S432-1000.

Distribatlon:

Ortg.

8I- Addresseo

1 - Outgolng ase chreno .

inter.

---

## Page 29

14-00000

Haiulc f. Nounays.

• Nowtaylä-

:a:÷!

• Corst?".

i:..

1 Ju00 1357

B6 ÀN'NANA DiLO

r. l9t .Èdo7":

to t?

''e,e.

Ho. 10l: 16?

i.Marmpiigt"!

".it atio iri

toeigendddliit

kgted.de9

-.?et:.::

p.iror.

lte eegeth Hiod te Lei t'3t

imulbgeind i i bodd i

-tt. 1:

o..!:.:. 1..d

• 6 69:

boi.at tisp

t ?!.

pridlo

?or j.ion'!si

meeuto 2ile gleddel Gill M De äiekfool!

etopeitoa

h?'":i!"

: :: .?.

→'..

ienireiss

-i.ion:

Hritt1..1.

we to ihis tridi tülliea

rr.?!.?..т

wieeeeloe o 1 Wel G ! tildll Ml Mil Tdif

r! :1:

Key, ites

---

## Page 30

Ms. Harold N. Noemays

Deas MT. N semay?!

Melorence lo rado lo your costroçi wils io Unllod Stalos Covernest.

al represented by bio Ceniraellas Ullicas, alfectivo l June 1997, so amendad.

Allactiro 13 Jobruiry 1960 naid ¿ontrail, so amondod, la further anondod

by soding alter rubenrograph (e) el paragropa (our (4) estillod "Allorascos

the follewtaga

All elbor peros aad condillasa ol lao contrael, se amendodo remsta la fall

force sed altoe!.

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

BY

ontracting

Ofaicot

---

## Page 31

14-00000

Mr. Harold R. Noemay!

Dear Mr. Noe.nayrg

Roforenco la made to your confrari mill the Uniled States Curornior. le

no roproveniod by the Contrasling Officor, effoctive l Juao 1957, do a nonded.

Ellective l May 1958, asle contracio de amended, do further Amended ln

the following manneri

The firat sontence of nub-paragraph (S) of paragrapa

four (d): onbillod "Allowances," lo sovisod lo scad as followes

"In addillon to the above paymonto, you will do oneselar

to an equalimation allowance computod lu conformance sh

Applicable Government sogalaldone and policios. (Jor your

laformalton, the oqualimation allowanco lor Mexico City le

promontly $000.00)"

b. The following eob paragraph la added after sub-paragraph

(6) of paragraph firo (5), ontilled "Travel"s

"1U) for pous your dopondento, your personal automoblle

and your houdbold effecte balween permason! poste of

Boolgn.n0nl."

All othes lor.na and condillons of the contracl, de amendod, renain In

full force and ellect.

You will ploase indicale your approval by elgaing la the space provided

balow.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY

Codiracting Olicor

ACCEPTED!

Harold 4. Noo ayr

WITNE8Sg

APPROVED!

---

## Page 32

12 Mag 2958

9I11

11/013 (1100 Paston)

Mine® Co VAIVAD

mensant ef Centres

do 16 10 Marrod trat Subforl'o contros affertito

1 Jus 1957 do amanded lo toalude mader Paragrapo da

Mossono; Chat subjout bo antilled to lbe Sducallonal

Allominos per hito entidra, offentsto sua tho lallal dato

•$ the entriel.

se noovo provide mad laschertently anitted

Aua sabjoallo centrast dy bre Area Dora, al alsos the

Bratlos nolifled Subjons no ma ensillad so enta alloranes,

18 saula do appoetatad 11 Che salter ho corroetad and

tho contract eindes socondiagi, tua ertos suso lo the

ascolion of tha tres Donà unen subires'o alata fur

osattonal Nonnaio dated L8 April 1958, sas turned dona

Vano Dirlosea berenco el sha aferementlone entestes

•Irea the castrasb

do C. Kin:

chles, haotenn Hauloptero Divlades

Distribation:

2 - Flon

---

## Page 33

SEGRET

Mr. Arthur G. Vaivada:

Dear "Ir. Vaivada:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government,

as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 June 1957.

Effective! June 1957, said contract is amended by adding after

susparagraph (b) of Paragraph four (%), entitled "Allowances", the

following:

"(c) You will be entitled to an educational allowance in con-

forenance

with and at the rates prescribed in applicable

Government regulations. "

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force

and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

APPROVED:

Erclacao c.s. 8116816.

;:.

---

## Page 34

SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

16 4,011 1956

GEMINAL

• NOT TO.

ON dETAILS

'TENS dA VAIVADI

Е•ПІДСЕРВДАРС& І І

SOME CAPACITY

9...

CerOs Agend 03 l1 81,570.00

"OH TEAC

"740"

TOd BUPEIVISION

=00.8

PEASONAL SATA

99999.600508688

Cassan Agail

іД. В61

•A. DATE DO DiAtA (MOnA, Doo, Dodry

Mone core Jero, 2999-01,

Monathey Hagiole

ANDRATE

dang indI

IMDIVIDUAL

STROD AGENT CE

#ONSIDE POR THE ASHACT IN 87008

RATIONS "

mreo, wire and so dialden

3001109

U. 5.

MIL

STATUS

matre ide

#A9I€ SALAHT

AN On StAr

Tent det

SO. POAT DISGEREOTIAL

BASTA DERMANY OOTAINES

- 70570600160

SECTION Y

QUARTERS

COMPEASAPION

RD: COULA (Be0Bld00n. 11109)

30.

lepons darlind tren cover till un

Rena

tered in to statea

ALLORANCES (MONDALLE

ORANTID ONLY TO RESIDENTS OF TUS UNITRO

SPAYBS)

88.

$08T

TANES TO BE TITANILD DE

COVER

O...

Пола

11:TIJA VI

TRAVEL

not стя 1a

00.19896AX441018 87A86 886AT1OABIP, CITIRBRO.

A8S AND DIf

valo, Coots rican offlan, hare 15 sarah 1918

100, 11

bars d Septanter 3919 - 18 elden

& much tim

, born 8h Juno 1932 - 13 e18100n

PATMENT AND ACCOVNTABILI

ILL BE IN COMCONNADCA DITA

PION VII

void pro that 1o 1a

• °. LEDOS

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

s. Oni, of travel to hantees fee, de

providad fos do: rujoot datinidi

---

## Page 35

14-00000

SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

(CONTIRUED)

SAY POITPUCTIONS DO PIBST CALAT

ARID

614W499

2955 08 3168

L 10 42812 2498

Arrual leaw

Sick Loeve

eath and dantlity bonofila equel to those asthorizad under Fodarad sauloyous

Caspensalion Aet.

poly fire And

Gill Serios Reltrasm

enlar Stall krologes nodiral bonafilo far employso end topendane as stated in l5?20

(enjoot adil not requiramento then completra covers modical on 81 April 2998)

06550 8 05

ACPIVITIAS

1. 1901. 100 10

TEaM

Man 2958

38 Pioreaper

BABY BUOCTION (PI. OP. OrDer)

FUNCTION

SPICE MOND

SADADAL DESCBIDTIDN DI DUTIES TO BE PERFOMARO

DUTIES

Casa aífdoes for Gemmunlal Party opurationa la Rades

111ION

ASPERINCE

OUALIFICATIONS

Contrace and dares agent anen dues 1919.

Istalligano enademente in Costo alon, Unstorala, end Cut

TOUCA710n

LANGUARE COETETINCY

(ore poores)

Ang Im

• 2

ACTICA XV

18403

PRIOR EXPLONMENT

den 190

App 28b6

1611ON BYE

ACDITIORAL INFORMATION

ADDITIONAL OR UNUSUAL DE QUINININTS, JUSTIFICATIONS OR LSPLANATIONE (UAS OThON DidO lA MOCHOGATE)

INDIVIDUAL'S

COUNTAr 00

0816r

MEM

THE ERNE

$: 68A%1,#8 09

APPROVAL

long.

---

## Page 36

14-00000

i18. Arthur G. Valvade

Dear Me. Valvadas

Reference de made to your contract with lae Uniled States Covernment.

no represontod by the Contracing Olficer, ollectino l June 1937.

Killeslive iS April 1998, aald contrace da anended by rorloing the larit

sentenco of paragraph two (2) entitled "Compensation" lo read as followo:

"In full conniderallon los your sorticos aa a Career Agenl.

• you will be componented al the rato al $7570 per arurs,

03-12."

All olhor torme and cordiidona of the contract, as amendad, romain

In full force and effect.

You will please, indicato your approval by digning in the space provlied

bolo.

UNITED STATES COVERNALIT

BY

Contracting Cilicor

ACCEPTED!

Arthur C. Valvada

WITNESS:

APPROVED!

---

## Page 37

1f AriL 1950

FARANDO PORI CALOR, DESEPARA PErDERDAL DIVIERCE

J2/OPS/PreJoeto

Atesallena Miles Peastei

Arther do Valvada o Anatal el Coalonal

Lo. Il so repentad that Arthur O. Valvado a nutrast, effeorito

1 Juno: 1951, do msadod ly delating the firos sentence el Paragrapa a

(Despensation) and entolitaling la llas Aborres ano fallendaga

"Ro forne

abago In full emaddsrasion fur jour servios as

a Cartas Agoni, gus Mlll de empensatal al lhe Fato ol 91570 por am

0312.

2o All oldos tars and ondilloso el tão entedoal centros regata

de Mall furse ad effoet.

do to Kag

6bi08, Recena Mandenhora Diriados

---

## Page 38

14-00000

WH

19May1?

Mr. Arthur C. Vaivada

Dear Mr. Vairadas':

Felurence is malo lo your contract with the Unitod Siales iosermreni.

an reprederied dy tue Contractiné Officer, effectira l June 195%.

Elloctia !. June 1157, sald contract is amended by adding alter aubo

paragraph (b) ul Paragrapt (our (i), entiiled "Allowanceo," the following:

"(a) You will bo estifler lo in oducational allowance la

conformance will and al the palos prescribe: ia applicable.

Sovernient regulatioes. "

All olber corms and conditiona of she contract remain in fuil force iana

effecto

•UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Contractind Ollicer

APPROVED!

---

## Page 39

14-00000

20 Лиз 1937

MORANTON PORI CAlal, LETtiseD Persemal Devdales

SUBJECTe

ArtAnT O VANADA (Fa.)

Do lubjent rutariad do Babana VICh bla ViPO da 11 My 1957, Do SONINe

Ala la Habana fraa Costa Riea an 22 Me 199%

Do It la requestad that Sabjeetle inbana allomoco, an sel fores la

hla contrart datod 1 August 1950, and mubarucely manded, bo reinatarad

fe the parlod 11 to 21 lay 199% 1l0 min contract comertlag bia to Cares

Agent itatus una effeesivo es 1 June 195%

1. C. 1h0

---

## Page 40

14-00000

L8 ABElS 1957

POSHANDLE TORI CAlaS, Contrado Peracaral Dirladoos

SULECTI

ArRIES O, VATYADA

for Judans of eparational sorty falloutas the killing or on Indigo

sous neaber (ANT:ODARCH-1) of hle apure not by the Puban authort llen.

tora in ta Jone for Me Partly, lo will mintata Chose quarters

mil abart 6 lay 195%, ven he vill be pengalaned 8e Rabana ep Pol

so another arod....

subjeet, himall, so mirrantly reading tlate

ad Hendquarterve

J. C. KIN

not, Heobera Beataphere K9.8.e

Plottilutions

cig. k1 - 11tres30e

1 - Cula Chirono

1 - ViIVADi Filo

---

## Page 41

Mr. Arthur Q. Valvada

Dear M=. Vairada:

Ralerenco la made to yous contracs vith the Unitod Sistes Coveranese,

al rOprOddared My lãO GuannEling OlacES, allactive 1 Auguas 1936, 88

amended.

INfoclito lA May 19ST, dold contract, an amended, la further amended

by delatiog la lia anurely Paragrapa 1) and eubalicusing in lou thereal

the following:

"I(D) Additional compenandon caleularod al the rato al

‚$5839 por annam. *

•All osher terma and conditiona of the original coatraet, as amended.

remain In full ferco and atfoet.

UNITED STATES COVERNMENI

Contracting Odicor

APPROVED!

---

## Page 42

14-00000

Mr. Arthur O. Valvada

Dear Ma. Yoivada!

Boleranco 1n made to your contrset ella tho United States Government,

so ropresenlod by le Contracting Ollicor, elfective l Anuat 1954, de

amandod.

Electio

nald contract, aa amended.

«thor amended by isa additioa al out paragraph (a) to paragrapa saree (s

entilled "Tranel"' onica reade so dollowe:

"(0) l'or temporary otorago of your household affecio abile

you are comporarly abson from your dallial permanent pout of duly

herenades. "

ClottiTo 19 February 1957, sold contract la furthor amendod by deleting

paragraga oLd (1) estilled Componastion" ln lio entiresy sod aubilituting in

¡sea tboroot the followiag!.

"1. Compansssien. In full consideralion dos lho purchase of cortaln

Informalios asd estulçes, you »ll raceive from the Coveramon, payablo

sa suct so approvad mannor de you may diroct da stillag, the dollowing:

(a) Compennation ealculasad al lhe rosa $l 93919 por anaum; 2nd

1) Addsonal compensatios los quartara procurement de San

Jono, alloctivo upon your arolval thornal in la anount calculared al

the pate ol $900d por sonMos. No lade addilloual componention lo baood

agoa quariers costs dl dald poal, li le subjoce to callateral adjugimens

by the Dovernment anenavor warranted by a chango-la the lactore.

allectlas les lalilal ostastiasmon, Quartera ulil nos be furainbod you

by the Coverament sor will you accept quartere provided by your cover

rectilty withou prlor sinondmeat of tala agroament. "

All EliNa tORrAs and COrdiLOne ol the cORiracl, ad amendedi romaln 1a

fall forco and ollect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

contracting Officer

• APPROVED:

---

## Page 43

14-00000

30 January 1757

MENTANDUM POr, Chies, 81

SUBINT

1 Reques: for Converalon of Arthur G. VAIVADA IrON

Contract to Career Agont Statua.

RE TRASS

8 1K4-1-2577

1. Reforeriod Ais,alch sros the fleid racomenda the converalon

of contrace apune Arthur G. VAlVADA to acall statuo and presenta a

otrone casn for euch comeraico.

Upon recelving a formal Wil rojuoat

for Buch autien, howeter, your Plana Staff suprested that careor

agost alatuo vould de nore approprialo in this caso, and further

Inticated that otaff atatus for VAIVADA 1a:01rually out of the

gunation at thie clne.. The roquest la bolag rosuballtos, choreforo.

In revised fora to provide for converason

so caronr rather tlan otaff

•tatus.

2. VAIVinA had sorTed CIA in e contract capacity sinco 1949, v1th

a continuma hiph level of performance; firot la Costa Rico,

Guatemala Arrl Cuta. He la currently asaigno en mila and do expociad es

roain there indefinitoly.

VAIVADA" 1a 34 yeara old and ma promotod

recentiy er the equivalent of a C8-10 mtlag.

Hio axpreased carper

Interesto l1i In contirued empioyment by CIA, mon aa:oclally 1n Cha

nore of unctflesai cover abelemmento, for wilch ho la nighly austor.

3. In vios of VAIVADA 'a 'oulotanding record as a contract agent,

hia atrong overall qualificationu, and bis exprenard dentro for a

carrer vith ClA, 1t 10

rocormended that he be frantod career agart

atatua. A PIS and a nos contract chock liat (lo duplicato) aro atached.

Wil Diviaion contesplatea beinging VAIVADA to tbe U.S. for

cuiere training during the lattor. part of 1957.

Approval for the conversion of VAIVADA fron contract to

career agent status, as indicated above, lo hereby roqueotad.

Chiel, leatern Hemiaphare Division

Atlachmente

PHS 12)

Contract Check Liat (2)

---

## Page 44

14-00000

SCRIT

PAGAC" IN DAMELION

A40 /=:

AstRa & VAIVALA

118891003866

30363. 2971

30 Lutug 1957

1.09189

3587-016

Cot Ad Natad to tenen da strada

In luter 1919; Emisfarrel lo Costa Rios la TAFOID Aujoet

U=3.

20 si 150

•В ОРРІРДІ

Г. л.....

=.

Babana, Calas

27..0000

USa mand 1248

86,390.00

0B 21

dioso fossa)

viro

ITAL-LAIN

lad ace

"LEN

1l0oRreeaT 0or.

....

D085

DIBDEDINTINL

ENSATION

Tao. corte (arestdoon.

48. 499)

70.

VARES TO BE DI TUMELD DI

ONLY TO BES

STATES)

Di215 ton 121021220 - 82, 630.00 (Dastesablo)

118PeRl09s

180...

CT..

CAIMATIONA.

tez:...

88.

Milio - Conta Reno

Basa 19 mena 1801) - J8 yar of ago

son o Il, Cile, 7 juaro el

Paritar - lo 6itimn, 1 Jean ef

8...

0j48: 100 41

Hounl ogssioml espursas of flald

caso offices

---

## Page 45

14-00000

di (conersad) euialy poaternit agveit (ieioal c) NTARADAT poapeot,

$9,505.00 polo

---

## Page 46

14-00000

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

(CONTINUED)

##: 109981488C98 09SIP1Y HORAY

119 010

Botitonst

3:1I0N

SIATUS

• Д.03

SECRET

30 1196

12 500 1932

800 8 19.199 00

COVER ACTIV

48

g.08

086 000082

MENTE ANA COOTUFLATAD

A SET OF

INCOME

AND OSMO TANUTATS PIRITO TE

Merado,

E latenta

198811

RESINATOS PATOR TO CORINAS TIPI

DuTitS

Amial agent espagal la sallation ol pastiza smollipos an Cl luñatler.

EXPERIENCE

QUALAFIIAPIDAS

12-25

30. LOUCATION

LANGUAGE COMPEYENEY

(checo serrada)

LAN GuA GE

01 0088

LoLa

00' 0n.6.4

PRIOR EMPLOMENI

fe, 1915 - ApriL IS6e

Pasal Sers

Ar Sallar, Con tale

Fial, Coral Tuni

no deter

---

## Page 47

14-00000

FRC.1:

SUBJECT:

Chief, Financa Division.

Contrail Pirsonnel Division

Contract extension for acebar ca KAveRa

1.

Effertive +iegssas-1986

th. contract (as ananded)

cos the antjier individual, effective SAugua 1951

• in

2. All othar torine and conditiona of the contraci (as amend:d)

renain in full fores and stace.

UNITED STATES CE ANEMICA

BY.

Contracting Clfiess

APFÄCVEL:

---

## Page 48

14-00000

29 sals 1956

MECHANDIN PORA COTATACO ANDORDAl DIVIASEN

VIA

• r1/Pana

of aguito.

lo ua precoted no the eguivaless el a 13-10,

anota Ap 195. .

в. 8. воооа, делан

Diatolbatlen:

1- 14/PIAs

1 • Chrons

1 - mahjort

---

## Page 49

14-00000

3 Nay 1956

MEXOPARDUM PORI ContradE Personnal Diviaion

VIA

• P1/OIana/17010060

1 Contrase Arondaent, Arthur O. VAIVADA

It 1n roguentod that Cho contract of Arthur. O. VIIVADA be

ananded to provida for an Inergase in salary Bros 85060.00 8o 85815.00,

effeative I Apr11 1956.

L'ATPADA entorod on duty with chia organisation on 1 June 194,9

an a contract agunt.

Troe June 1949 through August 1953 be an

ntationod in Conta Rica, were his roond was cutstandira and inoluded

tha quecesaful landling of a nia level Commnier "arsy ponetration.

in ing subo@juonely civen imadquartera timining for soveral monthe

and partieipated in PBSUCCESs.

ACHONARCH POject sinco July 195k.

lie performance ture has con

alnued to be outstanding.

I has proved to be partloularly adopt se

spotting end recruiting of agonte and hid work has toon bighly praloed

by to chlor of stallon, habana.

In redomanding reneral of to

AM!'ANDARCH prOjode reconily, YI/Plana/Projodto statod, s16h roferendo

to VAIVADA, that be "hoa oûrimaly boon a valuablo, doap cover agent

handler during als joars of sorviod for Wil." Ha had vean quallfiod

provioualy so tho sons valasola agont of the san Jose alation.

4. There oro mattiolent funda la tha AMANDARCH projoes (approvod

13 Dodorbor 1955 for the enriod 1 August 1955 through 31 July 1950) to

provido for the abora-roquated Inoreoco 10 salary.

3ach en Inuresse

+111 be

ascetfleally provlded for in the nurt projest pengul rogust.

VAITADA baa boon al hia prosent ablary levol aines July 195.

nof, beatarn Hendophere Diviol

---

## Page 50

14-00000

I May 1956

DEVOT ANDUM FORS Contraet Personnol Divialen

VIA

SURACT

• FI/Plane/Trojosts

l Contract Arandment, Arthur O. VAIVADA

I8 ls requested that the centraat of Arthur O. VAIVADA P

amandod to perrido for an Inoroase in salary From 95060.00 to 85925.00,

effeativa l April 2956.

FATTADA entored on duty with dila organisation on 1 June 1919

pres. June 1949 Chrough august 195J he vao

stationed la Costa Rios, sere ha rocord was outatanding arl Inoluded

the puccesahil aandling of a nigh lorol Countat Party penetration.

le was subeequently Riven inadquarters training for sovral montha

and partiespared in rasucasss.

J. VAIVADA baa been ta Cuba la sla prosant caprolly (P/A,

AMPHODARCH PrOJoot) aineo July 1951. H1a performanca there bas 80n-

Elruod to be outetanding.

Ho has provod to be partioularly adepe at

spotting and recrulting of agente and hla work hae been highly praised

by the Chiof of Station, mbana. In rococonding renoval of the

AMPIODARCH projoot recently, VI/Plans, Profaste alatod, vita referenco

LO VAIVADA, that ho "sas obvioily boon a valuablo, deep cover agent

handler during ols yoara öf servies for WH." He hed boon qualified

previoualy sa the coat valmablo agent of the san jose station.

4. There ano suffiolant funta la the A'PODARON projoat (approved

1J Dovember 1955 for tha parlod l Anguns 1955 through J1 July 1956) to

provida los tbo abovo-roquasted incroaco in salary.

Juah an Inorcase

1ll be apol fically provided for la Bo nort projoot pennual request.

VAIYADA has boon at hia procent inlary leval ainos July 195l-

• Go IDOra

Chios, Boatara Hondaphore Divielon

---

## Page 51

14-00000

Date:

..

Ms. Arther G. Valvada

Dear Mr. Valvadas

Roference la mado to your contract with the United Bistas Coreramant.

so represented by the Contracting Ollicer, allactive l Augant 1994, ao

amanded.

Ellocilvo 1 April 19J6, sald contrace, no amendod, la furthar amended

ne followe:

(a) The ligare $5000 In the firet sentence of paragraph l(a)

la Increased to $9915.

(D) The ligure $2975 In the firet senienco of paragraph l(b)

la Incroased do $2960:

(c). Tho ligure $1930 la the fires contonso of paragraph 1(c)

Le Incroadod to 32199.

All other forms and conditiono of the contrael, as amended, remala

In full force and ellect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Olficer

APPROVED:

---

## Page 52

SECRET

Mr.

Arthur O. Valvade

Dear Mr.

Valvess

Relerence so made to your contract (asanted) elloctive

1 Anger 1994

with the United States Government, as

represented by the Contracting Officer, for the (purchase) fanta

añof information and services of a confidential nature.

Effective i January 1955, said contract (amonasy lo

ems amended by deleting therein all reforence lo your pay-

ment of Fedural laxes and oubstituting in livu the reof the following:

"While it do recognized phas you are an indepindent contractor.

the Governmont al your request and in view of security consid.

"rations involved agree, to withhold from the monthly laxable:

income dus you under thia contract which is payable on and after

1 January 1955 ariounto equivalone to lhe Unilad Stalo: incorno

tax withholding schodule based upon

prodint

exemption(a). Sums so withhold will bo paid over to the

Intornal Revanua Servico. You acknowledge that this is an

accommodation on the pare of the Governinunt and does not

relievs you from fulfilling your obligarions undur existing

Fudural incomy lax law, and regulstions. You will bu

instrucled as to the muthod to ba followed in making simuly

filing of returns, astiinalus and paymints in ordur to pre-

Survo sccuraly."

All othor terms and conditions of the contract (a

remain in full force and effact.

You will pliase indicate your approval by signing in the space

provided below.

UNITED STATES CF AMERICA

RY Contracting Olicer

ACCEPTED:

• WUNNESS:

APPROVEN:

SERRFT

---

## Page 53

. Dated

Br. Arther G. Vatvada

Dear Air, Valvada:

Reforenco la mado lo your contraci wilh dia Dultod Staloe Governesent,

aN roproo0Dted by lie Conscing Ollicor, ellOCuT ) Auguar 1954, 88

amonded.

Flockiro I Jammiy 1956, anld eonirael, so amended, la farlber.

amended by deloting paragraphe ene (l) and two (2) and all referenco to

T'oderal taxes and nudelttating la lien thereet tha Lollowing:

1. Componnation, In fall conaideralion for lha parehane of certala

Informatlon and servicoe, von vIll rocolvo frem the Covornon, payablo la

such as appromud manner as you may direc: la writing, the following:

(al Compenssiton estenladad al lso sato el 85060 pos aumes, sod

(D) Additional compansallon for quartaro procare mon: for you

and your dependonto prosently estenialad al the rato el 82575 per sonua

sad appileable only to your haitial permanous port el seelgamon: ober-

o30d: As thie additional compenassion lo betod upos quartera conte

al sald poil, 18 le subjoct to sallateral adjaamen by tee Governsont

"honover varrastod by a changa la the factors allocias lts initial

ostabllohment, Quartere will not he farminhod yos by le Goveramen!

nor will you accopi emirtero proviad by your conor facillty vilbos:

prior amendmomt el ihle agroement; aad

:(e) Additional componnation for cost el living expenses (other

(han quartoro) lor pos and your dopondonte prosentty calculaled a

the sata of 91980 por antins and applicable enly to your inlital'per.

manent post of addigamont onorpese. As tale additional componestion

la predicated apen the comparalles cost al living botwoen Hashington,

D.C, and your ordonn post, your cover, family statta and basie

componsallon, il le osbjoer to anllataral adjustinent by le Governos.

"hanovar vartantod by a change in lha factora affocting le origion!

establishmes.

t Tess.

dal do pour legral salastonio to to Govoramens la that

al as Independen contractor, all amounte pald diroelly or guarantoed by the

GovOTERDeEl unda: Paragrapà ond dupra, aro reportable na lucome under

íondetog federal Arromo tas lawo and rogulesten.

(D) la vlew ol the cocurily consideratione Involved, lo

Governent agrond, al your rogeaal, to wilhbold Fedoral lacome taxea 1103.

the monies duo yos under tule agreemen: in so amouas squivalen lo lla Unlied

States tocomo lax wlibbolding ichedalo basod upon your tarable Ineome bera-

eadar and

present exampion(»). Same no wilhbald will ba pald ovar to

---

## Page 54

Rhe Isornal Rovenes Service. Yea schaeuledge thas thia lo an acects platios

on la part el llo Corrummi and dens not reloato goa from fullllay yra

chligatione undos enailos Pederal locome lar lawe and reguladies.

Thas walt

Da lootruciad as to lo melbad lo to followed in making Marly flag et roasta...

eastmasao and paymento ta star lo prosests courisy.

All elbor ferme and eraditions al lla contract, as analod, so mala

In fall force and efleck.

You will please indicate, year approval by algalag da the speed prostiod

below.

UNITED STATES GORNMENT

Contracting Oilicer

ACCEPTED.

Arlaar G. Valvada

APPROVED:

---

## Page 55

sii.

SECRET

Cobo Ofilicr

Hin

Tal. Ert.=

2555

In""

22 Jụir 225%

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECA LIST

!.

General

A.

Preudonym Amohar de VAllet

D.

Previoun ClA

¿remury (contract Maplaine,

'ermoé Areni, etrol. Gentreia Apina_

Introdund presertly exacord

an has be eier been airhond by CIA or its

las_ se: 'rite Contreat Agast Aisio 15468

Security Clearance:

Type iperational

Tv - DoGa 025508 21 duis Last

1:.

i11:

f'eracral T038

Sins as labora

Cillzenehly

Do Legal Residence (CIty nad Crniry) Siarlto Wiinala

k. Current Reoldence (CIty and Siste

119821-53000 Jala

F.

Trento Yours: of Governsend Serutce (MIlitary and elvlllan) _ amar. 12 guara

G. Eno a drafe leferner: been distrel by Cli?_ done soaded.

COVER

CIA

5060.00

$

Crepenunt!on

A.

в.

C.

D.

Faste

Alitional (Poot Differential)

Profie partl-spation or bonds

Total

$

5000,00

IV. Allowances: (Normally granted only

to residents

of the

United States)

CIA

COVER

1900

$

A. Living • Quarters

B. Cost-of-Living

C. Other

D.

Total

E,

(1)

47

$

$

(2)

2'50

150 (ProsPer)

$

(3)

V.

Payments

What portion of compensation and/or allowances will be paid by cover? Mana

VI.

Operatioal Expendea

Purchase of Information:

B. Entertainment-

Use Feror is cente " sion Booke, 0102) porse

i1l.. Travel

Wich/without Dependents 5. Household Effecta

-C. Pernonnl Vehicle

It With Dependents, state Felatlonshif, Citizenship and birthdate of children:

Expenses will be pald bj:

1. Per CIA Regs.

Miscellaneoss Benefits

Death Benefits:

Per. F.E. i.A.-

B. Dleability Benefita:

fer F.E.C.A..

Missing Persons Act

? Life insurance other

• E. Hoopitalization

Annunl Leave

G. Sick Lesse

H. Creditable Service

I. Rehabilitation Riphta_

other

IX.

C. Renewable:. Yes

DuratSon (Daya, Montho, Jesra) to TRAl B. Erfectavo Date $ 19e 19561

Teraination Notice (No. of days)

E: Forfeiture of return travel for resienation prior to Contract Tera: YesI No

8. W11l Individual take title to dia property? Yes I No_

XI. sill indtvidunl work under "eatrolled conditiers", l.e. set office hours,.

superviolin, etc? Yes_ dod

X11. Auditional or la mual reguiresents, justificatlias or explannelona

wis.

eatI

---

## Page 56

Date:

Mr. Arthur G. Valvada

Doar Me. Valrada:

Reference lo made lo your contrace effocilro l Juno 1949 miis cho

/ Unitod Siaios Government dor lho purebaso of informalion and services of s

confidential nature.

lifoctive 31 Auguor 1993 Bald contract le berab y forminated by murral

.cordent of the partled therelo and in leu thereof the following contract le nub-

Beirused:

The United Spared Coversmioni, an reprenned by the contral inchi.

sence droney, heroby contracto wich you for le purchade of cortain informs.

¡lon and related servleon of a confidenital saturo under the following torme and

conditloni:

Compensation.

In full conelderation for the parchase of sues infor-

marion and inevices, you will be pald an amouni caleulated al the rato ol $:200..

your responelbilly to report euch Income endor exteting federal lacome las

Allowanco,. Ellective upon yous arrival al your permanent pos: of

dusy overcodo, you will bo enrilled to a Cuarters allowance equivalent to las!

granted a GS-I:Government employee olationed at the same permanent post of

Ible allowance will be al sha marimum ratos proscribed in the Standard.

isod Rogulationà (Government Alvilians, Forolgn Arona). No accountlay for

this ailowance will be required by. CIA.

In the event that Quartero are pro.ided

by your co:er company, you mill adi ba abiliod in lho duartero aiiomance boro-

in Indicated.

3. Travel. You will be advanced or ralmburood lunda for travel and

Branaporiation expenses for you, your dependents and your houdohuld eifeets

po and froro your permanent post of duty overaose and for you alone ior suthor.

Ised travel mthin your operational ared. You will be entitled to per diem la

liou of subalbience during ouch travel and while in training in the United States.

All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this parassagà must

be properly authorined.

and exponded Incurred heroundor are aubject lo pay-

ment and accounting in compliance » lA ClA rogulationa.

4. Oporational Espresos.

In additlen to the allowanco indiested above.

you will be aurancel or reimbursed funde for necessary operational exportes

including, bat not limitod to, entertalnment and the purchase of information se

apacilically approved by CIA. Such funde will ba aubject to accounting in dus:

isntial compliance with ClA regulatione.

3.

Leave.

You will be entitled to fourtoon (14) calendar days' leave

por contract yoar.

Such leave may be accrued during the term of thie contract

or any conomal boroof bur payment in lleu al unused leave will not be authorised.

Sueb leave may only bo taken at times and places approred in adiance by

appropriato representatives of ClA.

Cover.

ll lo aolicipaled that you will undertake certain cover

employment in the enuree of your performance under thie agreoment. It is

expresoly undertood and agreed that any and all documente whleh you may

exactle in the course of such cover employment are subordinate lo tale agroo-

mont and any contradiction In torme whied may in any way amplily, extend

rostrict you? righte and/or obligations herounder shall be recolved?

agrooment which shall alwaya de dominant.

---

## Page 57

.%.

Offast.

Any sume or oubotan lally elmilar bonellio or allossancee

pocelved from your commercial cover as dularentialed irom your srudent

cover will be unod to offoot those due under lie contrace by Cll. Suma, almila-

benalito or allowancos thus recelved through your commercial cover are acinos.

ledged and agreed to be payinent by ClA milala sha proviciona of thia conirace.

You will repore all sumo or puberantially dimilar bonelito rocrived from dald

commorcial cover at loadt every als months during the term of thio contract.

8:

Ernestion of Documonte. Il, In the performance of your cover ser-

viço, you sosume the cuprudy of goverament lunda or lako ilile of record lo

property of any nature whalsoeyer and wherever aluate, which property has

In läct been purchased with monlén of the U.S. Government, you hereby recog.

slao and acknomlodgo the onletence of a truar relationahip, elther express or

construcilve, and you agreo to execute whaiover documents may be required

by CLA lo endence tale selaitonablo.

9. Starun. You are not an employee of the Unlied Siates Government

under thia agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident

to an employee status.

Secrecy.

You will be required to keep forever socret thia con-

tract and al! Information maics you may obtain by reason bereos (unlese released

la writing by ClA from such obligation), wies fuil knowlodge has elolarion or

ouch secrecy may rubject you to criminal prosecullon under the esplonage lawa

datod 25 Juno 1948, as amended, and other appilcablo lamo and regulations.

11. Inotructiono, Instructions racoired by you from ClA In briefing o

training aro a part of thia contract and are incorporated berely, provided tal

such loe:ructiona aro not Inconalatoni with tho ierras hereo!.

12. Unauthorised Commitmente. No promise or commismenta parlala.

Ing to righto, privilogen or benefito othor than those espresoly stipulated la

melting la chla agreemans or any amendmens aboreto shall be bindles on tho

Coverament.

Iorm. Thie contraci lo effocilre as of 1 Saptember 1953, and

shall continue thorostar for a parlod of two (2) yeare unleas soonor corminsied

by ClA either

(a) By thirty (90) days' actual notice to you from CiA, or

(D) Without prior noilee, In the evens of a broach oi thie contract

by your violallon of the security provialone hereof of by yuur

otherwise rendering yoursel unavailable lor accepiable dervice.

Subjec: lo the availability of appropriationo, tuls agreement may be renewed

log succenaive perioda of one year each upon notlce frora ClA accepted by you.

Is the ovent of rolanury terminallon on your part or terminalion dor cause

by ClA prlor to expirallon of uble agreemóot or any sonawal thareol, you sill

not be entitled to return pravel expenses to the Unlied States, Termination of

talo agreemeni will sos saleade you from the oddigalions af any security oath

you may be roquired to take.

ACCEPTED:

UNITED SIATES OF AMERICA

BY

Arthur G. Valvada

APPiOVED:

Special Contracting Offices

---

## Page 58

Dates

Ms. Arthur Q. Valrada

Joar Mr. Vairadas

Reference lo made to your contract, de amended, ellecilve l deptember

1953 illh the Unded Sratos Goveramans, do represeniod by the Central

Intelligence Agency, for ¿be purchado ol informallon and corvices of a confi-

dealial natura.

Elloctive 3l July 1934, auld contrace la boroby forminaiod by murual

condont of the partles thereto and ln deu tereo! the following comirace la

euballtuted!

The Unltod States Covernment, ao repredented by the Central Intelligence

Agoncy, heroby contracto with you for the purchase of corialn laformation

and rolalos corvices ol a confidentlal nature under the following terma and

conditione

1. Componention. In lull conalderation for le purchase of such infor-

mallon and servicod, you will do pald an amount calculated de le paro oi

$5060. 00 рог апашт.

Paymento will do made a directod by you la writing

In a maanes acceptable lo ClA, Notaros will be elibbole from ebla amount.

but it will be your respondlblily lo report such Incomo under entoting federal

lecome lax lavo and ragulasione."

3. Allowsacos.

Ellection upon your arrival al your permanent poet

of duty oversono, you will do ontlilod tos (a) A Quartore allomanco oquivialone.

lo thai praned a 65-9 Ooverament employee stalloned at the same permanent

podt of duty, Thie allowance will be at the maximum rates proderibed la

the Standardiaod Rogulallons (Governmen: Clilliano, Forelgn Areas. No

acconntina dor the allowance vill ba required by ClA, ln the even: that

Quarters ara providod by your cover facillly, you will not be entliled lo lho

Quartore allowance heroin Indleated.

(D) Cost of lirag allowances in

conformance with the Standardined Rogulationa (Govornment Clulliane,

Foreiga Arosa)..

Travel. You will be advanced os selmpureed funde for the follow.

Ing traval and tranoportation esponsees

(a) For you from Washingten, D. C. lo your permanon poat of duty

(D)'" For your dopendonta and your housebold ellecia from your old lo

your new permanen: post ol duty overseat.

(e) For you alone for suthorised travel willa your operational ares.

(d) For you, your dependente and your household allecte from your

permanoni poet of dusy overseas :o your place of recorded reoldence

upon the pallalacrory completion of the termo of thie contract of any

renewal tereol.

---

## Page 59

You wIll entirlod to por diem In llou of eubolerosco in the couçoo of auch tracal.

All travel, tranoportalion and per diein provided for under this paragraja mua:

bo properly autherined, and aspensed Incurred hereinder are aubject le pay.

sons and accountlog in compliance with ClA rogulallano.

Operallonal Esponsoo. You will do advanced or seimburaod fundo for

soceanary oparalional expenses ineluding, bus nor limliod lo, sulllon, booke,

entestalamen: and lho purebano of Informallos an apoculeally approved by

ClA. Buch funde will be subjoes lo accousing li subatantial compilance wlth Cli

regulallone.

Benefit a.

(a) You will bo emeriled to deals and diesbility bonellro.

equal so those authoriued undor the loderal Employes' Componsallon Act, no

amosloo. Clalma by you, your balro, or logal reprassatailros undor lalo

paragraph will ba proceenod by CIA In accordance vlu la procodured ln ench

manner sa pot te Impalr securley.

(D) You will be entilled lo continuance ol pay and allow.

ances lo a mansor almilar lo that sot forth lo le Mioning Persono Act

130 U. B. G. A., App. 8001-1015).

(a) You will be entiiled to fourteen (14) calendar daya'

leave sor coniract year. Such loavo may bo accrued durlag the term of thie

coniract of any renoval heroof but paymest in lleu of ununed leave will not

Do aulboriaod. Buch loste may only be taken al limes and places approvod la

advanco by appropsiase representalived of ClA.

* Cover. Is 10 antielpated that you will mortals dertain cover emplay

mast la tha courso of your performance under Ible agroement. It la expresaly

understood aod agrood that any sod all documonts which you may asocuro in

the cousoe al auch cover employment are subordiasie to this agroomen: and

any contradiction in torma maico may la bay haj ampily, asiced co regale:

your rights and!or obligallone horounder shall do resolved by this agreement

which aball alwayo be dominaa..

Dilant. Any surnó or dubotantially almilar benefita or allowances

racolved from your cover laelllly (lf you von ihe G.1. Bill of Rightn any

allomances raçotrod by you under sald bill escape suitlen paymenta) aill be

sood to alíso! those due undor thio contract by lbe Coveramon. Sume,

elmilar boneflta or allowances thue socolved are acknowledged and agreed

to be payment by the Coverament withla the provolone of thla contract. You

olll report all euma up aubstantlally almilar benefite soceived at leads overy

Dia (b) montha duriag tho form of llo contrace.

8.

Exocution ol Documento. Il, in the performance of your cover ser-

vleo, you animo the eggiody el governmont funda or lato lille of racord

lo property of any natuso what ooever and therever altuale, which property

bas in faci boen purchaoed ult montos of the U.S. Government, you hereby

recognino and aeknowledge the andetenco el a trast polarionahip, alter

ixprosa or condirucilro, and you agreo to emecute whatever documenie may

ba roguired by CLA to ovidence isla relatlonehip.

• 9.

Status. You are nos an employee of the United Siale Governmon:

under phle agroomont and are not entliled to any beneflie norinally locident

to as omployee status, ascept as speculically enumeraied haraid.

Socrocy: You will be required lo keep forever decret this contraci

and all information waled you may obtain by reasos hereaf (anloan roleaoad

In writing by CLA from such obligallon), wlih full dapwledge shas violation

---

## Page 60

el ouch socracy may aubjoer you to criminal prosecutlon under the Esplonago

LaDo, datod 39 Juno 1948, as amondod, and ocher applicable lame and rogula-

Il. Baptructione. Instructions socalved by you from CIA la Drloling,

tralalag or otherwise are & part of this contract and are Incorporaled heroin,

providod that such Inotructione are not Ineonolatent wilh the torma heroof.

Unauthorised Cormitmento. No prominen or commitmonto portala.

lag to righto, privileges or benelite other than those exprosely otipulated la

»pillag la lo agreement os any amendment thorole shall be blading on the

Govorament,

13. Toron.

The contraci lo ellocilro sa el l Augue: 1951 and shal!

constaue thereniler for a parlod al imo (1) your unlode sooner terminated by

CIA eithers

(0) My thirty (90) day8 actual bottee to you 18ôm GlA. or

(b) Wilhou prlor notice, In the event ol a breach of this contract by

your violatlen of the securtly provialone hereal or by your other.

"loo rendering yourell unavallable for acceptable servlee.

Subject to tho avallellley of apppoprtationo, thle agreement may he renewed

for oucesselve periode of one yaar each upon notlee from CIA secapted by you.

la the ovon of volulary tormianiton for cause by ClA prios lo expiralion of

Chlo agreement or any renomal lhoreol, you will not be entitled to reture travel

orpesoos to the Unltod States. Termination of Chlo agrooment elll not release

you from to obligatione of any securtly onl you may be seguired to take.

PANG GATSO OF AMERICA

Speclal Contracing Olleer

ACCEPTED:

Arlar 6. Valvada

WIT NE8B:

APPROVEDI

---

## Page 61

COPT

rator

Mr. ArChur Do Valvada

Dear Mr. Valvadad

Paterance 1a made lo your contract affordine 1 June 1949 with OdDEE

for the purchase of inform 11m ant crudern of a confidantial natura.

S8ToCLiro 31 Aumiet 1953 sald contriot 10 baroby carednatod by sutual

consent of tho parales tharolo and in lion Sharros the falloring cortract

10 subetitutadi

ODwas, as roprovented by the contrechlan officar, bereby contracte

with you for the vurchase of orrain infurmlion and related acroices of

a confidentil nature under the folling toras and onditione.

to Compensattone. In fall condoration for the purchase of such

information and perIous, you sill be pald an anount calcularod at the

rato of 84200 per anpuro. Pajnanta vill bo node na directed by you an

mitin. In a mannor accoptable to KUHARK.. No lanes will be withhold

from the arount.

and it will bo your responalbility lo report such incone

under coatin: Yoderal Inoose lar lave and rogulablond.

2o Allomano. •Litective upon your arrival al your permanent poet

of duty overacas, you will be entitled to a Quartora allosancs equivalent

to that grented a 03-7 Covariant employoe stationed at the sane permanons

post of duty. This allerance ulll be el the mide rates prescribed in

the Standardised Regulations (Dovernment Griliano, Foralm Areso). No

accountine for thie allomnce will be roquired by saili. In the event

that. Quartere are provided by your cover compant, you mill not be entitle

to the tuartera allovance herein indiosted.

.3o. Feel, You vill he elvernet o palabursed funds for traval and

trensportation esponses for you, jour dependsate and your bunsebold affocto

lo ond tra your permanent post of duty overcons and fer you alone for

authorised travel thin your sperational al.

ron till be entieled to

per dis in l1e0 of subalstence during such travel and while to sraining

In PaPRIl. All travel; transportation and per dies provided for under

thia parapraph must bo properly authorised, and expenses locurred herender

se subjoat so payment and secountine ta ooplianco vich TUBARE repulations.

Lo Operational Expañood. In addition to the allouance Indicated

abovo, Jou MIl be edvancod or redabured funda for nacessary oporational

expenses Inoluding, but not ledted to, entertament and toe purcoame of

Intormation an specifically approved by EUlARI.

Each funda sall bo sub joct

it do suee

to nocounting in subotential complianco ulth SUBARR regulatione.

---

## Page 62

14-00000

5. Loare. You elll be miltled lo fourtoon(lh) calendar daya.

loave per contract year.

Euch leave say be aourned during tes tarta

of thia contract or any renoml borool but payaant in lion of unasd

leavo vill not be ashorised.

Buch loive say only be taton at tran

and places approved in advanos by appropstase ropresentatives el lumaRi.

Covere. It 1a anticipated that you will undartake corsain cover

employnent in the course of jour portorance under this acroesent. It

10 exprobaly understood and agreed that any and all documento vadot you

may execute in the couras of voch cover esploysent are cubordinato to

this acroment and any contradiction in ferza which may ta say tay amply.

entend a restitos jour nutto ind or obligitions hervunder shall be

roooited by this apronent thics shall alayo bo dondnent.

covor will be rend to affect these dug under ble contract by KuBARk.

See, didier benofits de allosance thas foodved through your comradel

cover are ackno ledged and agreed to do payiant by WARN 1la the

provlatone of tate ontract. Dou mll ripors allame or subotentially

milar bonarse roceivid fra: said omelal cover at loont every sin

month cring the torn of thie emtracte

Bo Enoradon a Docuate. IL, La the sartorassos of your cover

paulo, Jou dermo the cuntody of povert fando er tatto $1010 et

pocord to proparty of any notaro unitosster end tanrenes altuato, sidon

property has in fact boou purchasad alta montre al OTTON?, ju harsby

rocognise and admosiodge the datanoe of a trust polationahip, alte

prose or contretito, an you aero to esecute thatoner deemante nay

he ragulrad by InRE to evadence relationchis.

Statas.

Tu are no a playe of me mier thie agreemant

ad ore nos entated to any bentila mally tueldent to an employee

Bocroey. You aull be requirad to hop foroner secret this con

tracs end 21l Inoration milet you my obtain by resoon hereot (unloos

Palene in Ing by LUBARA Dron ouch ebligatton), with ful: Inouledge

nder Bho espionage lara datal 25 duo 1940, so seted, and other eppli.

cablo leas and regulations.

1. Instruotions. Inatruotion socalved by you fros SHAll te

noting or training are a part of thia contract and are Incorporated

---

## Page 63

14-00000

mauthorial Conlineta Do preadoso or estatento portala

Bate la siding da dalo agreead er 1ay caracal Shorea ohall be

Landing oa 0070s3.

Ture: Tulo coatred 1a estoctivo an el 1 Septesber 1952, end

shall cossimo thereafter for a pariod of tm (2) jenra unlean ronta

•(0) By thirty (30) daya! geeral potloe to jou dua HURlS, er

(D) Mithout prior nottoo, ln the event of a brench of thia •

contract by your valettoa al the cocurtly provisiona

haral or ty your otharides radaring soupooll navallable

for accaptable @errd€®

Subjoes to the evailability os aproplations, thio acmamme say be

rened for successiva parteda el one joer each upon notie fron HuARA

Taniantion of tate agraint will not salear you fron the

SISTE

ACCIPID:

Pa FRIE

Tre do vastsa

APPROVED A

BT

---

## Page 64

14-00000

SECRET

Tete8119e

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

COMPLETE ONLY APPLICABLE BLANKS

•I.. Ceneral

Case Officer:

Tele. Bat.

Date

FrANCIS: 1951

Pseudonym Ariser Ge Valk%

C. Staif Agent

Cortra:: Employee-

_ • Career Agons

- COrEFACE Agent -

Other

Is

-— (8ce CFR, Pare 14.1)

Consultant - , Covert Dotall

ultimate consergion to staff atatue anticipated? are tri.

capacity? -

Is the indiasoul presently energed by ClA in any

F.

Clearance:

- Snori

T/O: EneR this indiridual block a project o lore Date da

мов но. ..

h. Acknomledgement of pseudonym on file in D/TI

il. Proposed Assignment

A Dutdes (eurout,

courier,

reports, lialsor. and contacts,

major or part-time operational duties, adminietrative etc.)

Findee: eaen.:

B.

c.

Antleipated Duration

Permanert Post (City and Country) incroiiies, arguin

111. Personal Qualificationg

A.

Citizenship.

rese

C.

D.

Normal Residence (City and Country)

B.

Marital Status

Storlieze Illao1s

Number of dependents

(including spouse)

F.

Sducation (check) High School

G.

•I.

-•Colloge I., Post Graduato

Military Status:

Reserve

eligible

Retireds beat erry

—. Draft

H. 12) Highest salary eamed laeli (2) Last salary carted a22?

Secial qualifications for assigment (area experience, languago

ortacts, technical or professional akills, dereral proven abili-

ties)

Co te tr. excullent 'agerlo

FOR

MAR 1983

30-64

SECRET

---

## Page 65

SECRET

IV. COre: Acilitty Insposel

A.

F.

v. 3.

Other Statiai

СТА РоргіРзу --у

CIA Subaldised

C.

Does the infirluval

which was previourly

established without the assiatance of ClA and which

D.

.

If the answer to (C) is no, explain ClA part in estabilahing

the cover, indicating ine mount of compenuntion which will be

paid by che cover setirily for bona fide services with rel

Dureement from CIA -

B. Will any portion of the cumpensation or allowance paid ly the

cover actirity be otise: aggingt amounts due from. ClA? ho

If so, suaranteed minimum -

V. Special Fiold Condicions

Ao Will the aport to able to mute frequent contact with a ClA

base possessing foma and regulation?

в. 11 00.1

does she base have adequate communication facilitles?

C. Fuult detection of the possession of eperational data probably

resule in the arrest of the individual or jeopardy to his

gatety? Yes-d

Enoluments and Conditions of Imp loymen:

(Add "=" within( ), If reintursable by CIA)

Vl. Compensation:

CLA

COVER

A Basic

В.

Additional (Post Differential)

C.

Profit participatlon or bonus

D. Total

+000

$

493081

VIl. Quartera

Furnished by: Gort..

Cover

Individual x:

=2.

SECRET

---

## Page 66

14-00000

SECRET

SECURITY I8S:RNAPIC

- VIII. Allowances:

ibormally grinsed only lo residento of the United Sistes)

* Llving-quarters

B.

081-0f-1vlre

C.

COVER

1,900

Total

E. Bania

11!

$ 22190

Comparance)

(3)

IX.

OperAtional ExpenRUB: (Check proper spaco. It maximum linie, dire

dultar value.T

A.

B,

Purchase of informition. Yes: 1_ No.

bntertainment.

Yes-

= No

C.

Use of' personal vehicle tasis _"a

Do Other (describe) _ Hone

Limit.

Travel Expenses

per dien

stanload

tare ain

B.

for been te

Individual. with depeadents

18 "wien" depondents, Identify relationship sife sat los cition -

Personal vohlelo

w1ll any travel erpenses to pala by coveri

41.6.

If reimburaable. to

(Deseribe and add

TRES CIA REGS.D

TSUP. CORPSTART. (3)

XI.

Miscellaneous Benefits:

(Fxcept In spacie! 33505,

to Staff and Career leones. Check as appropriate. )

appiliabie only

A. Death and Disability:

Per Federal Enployeeg" Compensation Act lo

(3) Other. (elve details)

B. . Leave:

lif other than per CiA or State Dept. regulatiors,

Elve trounin! - Yes

C.

D.

E.

F.

Retirements Reserve

- 1o

Continuance pay and allowarce per Missing Persons Act

Life insurance:

Rehabilitation rights

No

SECRET

---

## Page 67

ta-notes

SECRET

SERRITO IAFCOMATICE

Xii.

Term

Duration of contrace ..

B.

Effective date of contract:

(1)

On execution (chock).

C. . Henewnble:

I__ Nọ

De.

Te:rination Notice.

a porto ture or retur travel sor rolapion or to cunerace

_ (Rxplaln)

XIII. Additional or unusual requirementa, justificationa or esplanationa.

Soctin B of Miscollandus Benefito In raquested for subje l, al cough ni!

a Stail or Caroor Agent, recrudo of pat servico rondorodo

XIV. WIll agent cake estlo to ClA property? Yes_

No

BIGNATURE DO CASE OFFICER

ВВІРАНЯ

61 Bill to run through school sean.

SECRET

---

## Page 68

Alr

VI AT

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO.

CIAGSIFICATION

TO

• Chier, Foreign Bruno T

FROM

3 Chlot of siation, L

SUBJECT, GRATAN.

Profeot Humanold

SPECIPIC-

Amendment to Contraot

DATE:-

1 November 1949

Effeotive I November 1949 the selory of:

the individual designated as Humancid was inoraased

$100.00.80 a total

of $500 per month.

Thia aotion wos

token In conalderution of excellent servioes,

not 1n

timo,

but

In quelity, In the manegerent and direotion

of Projecta Humankind, Humanlst-2, and Hugger.

Elmor C. Mercer

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 69

14-0000

yes. Unly

Personal lafo

---

## Page 70

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E.T

Date 16 45 25: 1902

Career Agent Biographic Data

a.

Pscudonym of agent: POrE?

Last

Trod MI

Staff or Division: Tr

b. Date and place of birth: 20 Juna 1922 Doüzil, IUIreds

c. Marital status:

ferried

d. Relationship and years uf birth of dependents:

lifo

Son

Datught.cr

13

11

Citizenship of agent:

v.s.

11) If naturalized, when?

(2) If naturalized, where?

g. Non-CIA education to include name and location oi college, degrees,

dates, and major:

1949-1953

Univiraity of Costr.'Iliec

Loonorico

To cogee

1.954-1755 Taiversity of Tavana

Pol, Scionce

to dogres

h. Military service

(1) Country served and years:

U.S.

8 ITS.

(2) Branch of service and rank: ' los.d. und U.S.%.

s/isto

Non-CIA employment: kinds of business or profession, positions,

salaries, locations, and dates:

Jar, 1945 - 135. 1946

Isito, coco jolo, ronal zone laborer 12.55 p.d.

Par. 1.949-: 2200: 1053

Merlance photseraptor

sun jose, Gists Mica Variablo

S-E-C-R-E-T

Group 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading ard declassification

---

## Page 71

14-00000

fing S-E-C-R-E-I

(Career Agent Biographic Data p. 2)

j.

Dates of psychological assessment, professional and language::

aptitude tests, if applicable:

* darene, and lie relia, tige a long treme:

Language

Speaking

Intive

5ng133h

Spanish

ligh

11gh

High

1. Agency training:

Subject Covered

Duration uf Course

Years Taken

m. Alias or pseudonym used for psychological assessment, testing or

training,

it applicable:

n. Security clearance number:

122568

0. Date of last LCFLUTTER: 19 10 1958

p. Contract provisions: (Underline One)

(1)

Provision for periodic step increases

(2)

Provision for legislative pay increases

(3)

Provision for total offset of cover income

(4)

Provision for civil service retirement

(5) Any unusual provisions (please specify)

Houe unusial

Yes

Yes.

Yes

No

No

No

No

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 72

S-E-C-R-E-T

(Carcer Agent Biographic Data p. 3)

9. Date of beginning of current tour:

I juno 1957 (aroctive inte of current

contract.)

cat

Previous ClA employment:

Type of Gover

CIA Duties

Project City Salary

S-E

- C

-R-E-T

---

## Page 73

Reprived

ATANDARD IRM ST

REViSIO MANIT 1839

WE CIVA SERViCE CONMISSINN

APPLICATION FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT

1. Arnol of parsiciano appliid lose, as nanti ul coamination

Annetunionsent t's.

$7-103

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK

3. Openno for which you wish to le considered (if lied in examalien

D Apror:

• donappos.

Examining Oiline Quit

Material

_ suhmirnd

Returned

Estrid Regiaire:

3. Primary place (a) of empiluymene applied for l City and Stale,

Notations:

App. Revicard:

Apo. Approred:

Option

DO NOT WRITE IN TIUS SPACE

3. Addreso (iNamhoe, Sirael, Gusy, dume, Slate)

1607 S. 25th Street

Arlington 6, Virginia

D. Monie phone

634-6330

1. Legal of rating risilenis (sla86)

None - Outside U.S:

9. Height without shoes

jrade Haling

Rating

7.. Olive phone

None at present

since voting arc.

10. Weight

10

israja Dis

a Dance

Susand

Pairse.

Disl

_ inches

210

12. Marital statis

i starried

• Single (inst miners, disensal)

ANNOUSCIMENT

tha Sex

3 Male

Female

19. Dirthplace (City and Sale, or foreige country)

Dakals,

Illinois

14. Birtin dare (Sorit, daly, geno)

19. Serial Sururiey suinher

20 JuBo 1922

331

2552

1ã, ll you hase pree heen employal by the federal Guresoment, indicaro las

grade and jub title:

Contract Employce, GS-12

Dares of service in shar grade

From

15 Ap21l 1953.

To Present

D

Laresit.

Initials and

date

MAILAMLIT' INIORKATIS

Lowest prade of pay you b.

Will you accepo semporary

appointinent!

will acrope

jor osher appointments. y

Rein li "'re" indicare by "D in appropriare toa de freca

or grade

ftr

1 mo. or less

L. 1 no a monthe

"'ill you accepe

less than full-rime employment (less than 40 hours

D.

Are good willong to erase!?.

per work).

l'es

a to

I Sue at all

• Dissionalis

Will you scicys enplusiont: in

Washingson, D.C.?

F. Will you accope appainerone only in corsain locationa!

© is

Dutside 1i.S?

U.%o

If "%'rs." lise locarions:

ACTIVE MILITARY SAVICE AND VERTRIN PRZILRENCE

A. Lise Dates, Branch, and Sonal us Service Munior of All Mitive Service

Froun

29

AUG 1940

To

sept

1941

Hranch of Serenie

9

Sey

1941

ADr

1946

18

July

Apr.

19.15

1949

PA - US Army

serial or senio lanitre

US.iF

iS.r

20001300

I. Have you eier been discharged feum she armed lures under other than honorable conditions?

Yes (Gar demile in lies 398

C. Do jou ciain gopaint preierence basrol ois mansite malicary service?

D. Do you cisim s poine preference hased on service dunes pudittiaie

campaiga'

Y'rs

E. Do jou cluire 10-poine preference?

Preference Clairs"

TYPE:

1 Compensatio disabiliry

Disability

1 Wits

Widow

Mushes

THIS SPACE FOR USE OF APPOINTING OFFICER ONLY

The information siven in ansare to Question 18 has been sarile mith the disdaise certiacare and/os other prouá vital stras

thas the separation eas undre honorabie conditions.

VETERAN PREFERENCE ALLOWED:

• 9-poine

→ Other 10 posine

Sigcarare and liste

Agenay

Date

I sure

---

## Page 74

PLEASE BE SURE TO READ ATTACHED INSTEUCTIONS BEFORE COMPLETING ITEM 19

Nas squiry te made of your preen emma regarbas poot rharacter, fosteta tad rard ol congra mena!

- No

Doses of employmene (mart, prer!

Enact tale ell parasm

juries and tina do pepletero yor superores

juno 1, 1957

so pm on intelligenie cificer

2-3 Cort EraDO isonta

Salaty or earnings

Gestatist no. Criede

Plait of employees (tidy 8f,s0uie)

•Aird ne tammoss of organitation.

seeming $ 8,500

• J'eAr

entract!

Manniarang. +670+81018-177109

Preseni 1 9,500

Ni Veir

TS. sermont.

tame anil address of employee (An engutacuat da)

Signa, icin, and proves ares of immediare, reprocer

Central intolligence AgenTs

Director o1 Personnel,

Washington 25, D.G.

ATISITIONS

Reason for santong to lease

Seek treat Corerent erice

Destreprion al worl

See Attachmant

Dares of employmens (monito, pour)

East bide of prancs

2

June 2949 To 32 BiET 1957

Intelligence arteer

Salary of carnings

Chamberians Grade

Starting $ 1,500

14 m sorrel 5800

per Year

Corer sot

Finsl

$ 8,500

no year

¡Same and address of emplojes lara, organ

Contral Intelligence Agar,

kashington 25, D.G.

Reason foe leaving

Change in cares status.

Dricription of work

See Attachmast

¡dumbre and lind of traptor res pou superrierd

5 to 10 Agentse

Nind of business or organitaries.

270)575906 Eradling, P8105

loS: Government

Director of Personnel,

ATTRITION:

3

Darren! employment (aressit, 9848)

From 29 AUg 1940To 18 daril 1949

Starsing $ 30,00

¡sumter and hunt of employmes you superises

Intel 4rexo 150

134 Enlisted len

Annd iN taunera os deganitation.

A3 2oi Air Cormando Gime

same and address of ymployes (fame arranties. at )

ize, beir, and proceet adderse of immediale supertat

GiQ 2nd Air Commando Gp, IS

TA. IVIN MAILED, Major, USA

12, Caribbean Air Cornand, Larck Field, CZ; JCE G. MASANT, Brig. Gen., Pentagon

Study under 3.d.

See attichra

'IF YOU NEED ADOMONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM S7-A OR BLANK SHEETS

SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET

+8-0581778

---

## Page 75

find of larence ne d'erribalo ilor oamplo

ATTACH SUPPLEMENTAL SHEETS OR FORMS HERE

• ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS CORRECTLY AND FULLY

¿O SPECIAL QU'ALIBSCATIONI AND SKILLS

freeder.

B. State ee wither Inensing authority

NA

Nono

-Special obolla pros pereess and martines and equipmers you can use. I f'er esample, shore auro redes

onlalane, compromoono, des ponil, intoni laste, sonmiling snarhone, uneators de profenomal deinesi

Cameras, projectors, photo copying, viriless telegraphy

a: out 10 mom.

tirar of hrse liense

D. Tear of lnerse li

NA

NA

F. Appronimare number of bondo per minute:

Shorkand

Typeng

50 wpr

None

28. EDUCATION

A Place "I" in entume indu sing higtose prodo compleral

113140

10

8.

aduated iron

08

Ah school, give do

1940

1ares errended

D. Name and locasier el college oe universiry

From

To

C. Name and loraron el lane high atroad enteralend

Deärlb Township High School

Dehalb, I1l1nolg

Years compteind

Credie hours

Day

Airghe

I Semesres | Quarter

Degree

Univeraity or Costa 31ca. San JoBo, C.B, 1948-

-1253

baiver:lty or Havana, Cuba

1254-

1224

2

32

(Approxe equiralent to 4-year Cull-time BS Deeres In Edonomies in an accredited

VeS, collesce

Semes Queure

E. Chrei undergraduase college subjecta

Herers

Under

P. Kool graduate college subjecte

144418

Credi

None

Nono

Hour

16

¿conomia Dostrines I & II

Labor lan

I'me

writered

uarte

Crealre

Palitical Escae 11a II

principles oi Admi-latration I lefI

Financial fatheratica IT

8

8

incy, Gredit & Baniang

ler An rag hard Keynas as taught by:

Ca, State majoe trald ad sudy ar baghens level of rollege work

Economic Theory - Ceneral Theory of Employment - Rodrigo FACIO,

International i notary

s. Orher shorts

subjecto saudied, remoteres, and any cubes pertinent data.

remotes and Per Institute of autorship, loo escare

Hollywcod 29, Cal1f. (18-month correspondence course in journallam) Ney 1955 to

Cot 1956.

22. TORICS TRAVEL

Have snu trued or traveled i say fureign

countries"

21 to

Enter foreign language and ancie.

cale your hanaledge ad each by

plasing "X" on proper column

Suanish

23. FOREIGN LANGUAGiTS

Heading

Sperakoog

limberstamating

End fin am for and too lee con To Ear Fine Fore

--0...

chairs

24. REFERENCES

RhO ArE NOT RELATED TO YOU AND SHO HAVE DEFINITE

List ihree perspne livng in the linised Seates on territories of she linited Stares

KNOWLEDGE of pour qualbenions and fenera for the posision for ahich you se applying.

Do dod repeat nares of supervisors listed under ines 19i.

PRESENT BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS

BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION

FULL NAME

(Number, Stress, City, Zone, and Shite )

I6. hendig id, Hickory HIlls,

Francis 1llians,

New Car11s1o, Chio

160 Main Steg

Arthur Gregor

Quincy 69, Mass.

Gort Employee

USAF

Setalurgist,

MIT

US Navy (Retired).

1822151 12th St

Sigmund Gutenko

188- 488914

---

## Page 76

MOR CE

1'oorel Seetro us! cansetsea..,

1"9,

An ta root, ost tote poo neep bees, a meribor of the Coramunist Party, 1iS.A., she Communire Postical dossusatires, ehe droung

Care pate lergior, de any Communese deganitation?. .....

do sage pron one fare goo; pure been a Marlot of any frapier de inscrio deganisaian, dennciatina, mirermarne, pessiara, cop capelinatino

one slee a recite on loco, damages, do secur, or atrol loo edoped ade cancieous of chri

'e lie tong mereston oll delt at dupree de Manlonie too deny nober geeenny pheer gughts

mista is arrao pee ditto the dugs col grocremene no die d'nitro drates log uncomerusional meansi.

sand optimise one, i89gaspos torer.

15oe louisesidense shries, )

39 Hese pure any payeral handicapo, ebponis discare, on reiner dlroainiiay?..

¿O. Plane ros rope harl a napress becalduan?.

I Ma" - R9002 19 29.

so sis clare in for sure deters in leer 19.

a Reues bee brest 15 sudous ence to mahes cominatione de accene coul arrice appoiremen!

48y

I striPe lead dece on time eagles a Soror argedy any rabie of youre fly bloud be daredge with whom an ade at

hare israel reinhore chre plate

Ma; this kent sit

GeT as Preement

"Did are deters no biere 19

o die sua de decal or deaned up deg sue Berriers, county, te municipality?..

Petito desee 18 "ges" dese alacarlo in lies 080.

19, Hiase pou pore been dinsharge thred) trom empingmens due any resson?..

3a, liang you soet resigned frosty alter being informed shat your enployer intended to discharge fairel you for any reason?

Ihis enfoematens slavial ager Beat resignegels salle in liere 10-P'onerscnie.

Mons die marie end solidas of splayer, apprisinate dole, dail erniemo

(l'ase 1998 crisit.

irerstigation de guestioning.

Get trama Mossahans bert to mini setu pan a birte

Wipitcas

ur sado or los ara men colored tor juteres

All seher incierre must be included even shough they mere disminer or you meerig lusfered roiidiorat.).

18 Whim in die minare worride were you sher arrested for an offense which resuled in a trial by

canetel insre-snailal?.....

dest couse de lag summaps, special, or

liens den

Here Yer.

Acana, J242-1421221t5na

cuntcogade la mentise 1251

023721224-2

Mexicce 1256-62

•issta Mice, 242-53e Educatten

o serial, use full sherio et paper spproporately the darne dire do this puse.

did on croide al this aspiration.

Weis on each shoes quue marne, dose of lark, and run

ATTENTION: READ THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH CAREFULLY BEFORE

SIGNING THIS APPLICATION

A false or dishorest answer lo ony question in this applicetion may be grounds for raling you ineligibio for Federa!

empioyment, or les disinissing you citer appoininion!, and may de punishable by fine or imprisonmens ¡U.S. Cod:,

Titie 18, 5r6, 1001J.

full statements made in lne application are subicet lo investigation, ineluding a chock of jour

Angurprints, police recorde, and former amployors.

fincss for Federal empioyment.

A!! information will to considured in determining your present

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIl shas all of she statements made in this appication are true, compluse, and corrose so the bese of my boomledge and, hairt and are made

in find die.

Senatas di applican! -

Ruse I Grains

- Dare..

2F JULYS

---

## Page 77

14-00000

STAGE AT

No. 19 - Soro: sienco:

Poss 1o Groster, PDCB Dabalb, Illinois, 20 June 1922.

From Juno 1957 to Present. Performed Intolligonco Cificor

dities soscializing 1n Latin Aperican countries and areas. Supervised

approxinately ten indigorous Intollijerce personos engaged in

collucting inormation of posciblo intollizenco uso. iropared intolllicace

reports on a wide varlety où subjocts primarily in tho economic, political

and military arcad. Developed intelligence sources on own initiative and

obtained Infomation from nativo channels utilising technigues of inter

vioring, eliciting, interrogation, bricling and debriefing.

For approcimately threc

years of this period, served as un

Intelligence Sperations

Officer on sensitive intelligence operations

projects. (Classified information rolating to this aspect of experience

may be obtained bron CIA through clcared channels)

Fren June 1949 to May 1957. Perfoined duties similar to those

described in forazoing paragraghe Enphasis was on the detection of likcly

scurces and reintaining substantial contacts with foreign govermment

officials. intensive use was made oi native lanziago - Spanishe

Fror. 29 August 1940 to 18 April 194901s recorded on ID AGO Fcrr.

100, Separation Qualification Record - Intelligence Secialist MCS 631:

Assists in collection, evalüution, Interpretation ad distribution or

Information o% eneny and counterintelligence activities and saic-guarding

---

## Page 78

ATTABONE - 10• 39 - Roberionce - Continued,

ai military Intonation.

Maintains situation mops with order of battle, flak and radar

maps, surial photographs, and records regarding encry location, strength

and probably Intentions, Maintains liaison with othur Intolligence

services and estaulishes intellirence observation posts. lay assist in

tho preparation for briefing and interrogation of flying persornel.

Fanillar with the use of drafting instrumenta, balopticans,

projectors and rimeograph machines.

Capable of instructing othors in these subjects, preparing

maps, sketches, and recognition of enemy forces. Also faniliar with

interprotation of acrial photographs.

During the period 1946 - 1949. Served in Staff Intolligence,

Headquarters, Caribbean Air Connard, Albrock Field, C.2. Prepared studies

and analyses

0f a military, econonio and polltical nature on all Latin

American repuolics as compiled fron Nilitary Attache's reports, CIA and

State Department roports. Supervisod tho

to four non-coms in the establish

ment and maintenance of reforence files for Ceographical, Polltical,

Ecoromical and kilitary Intelligence sections.

---

## Page 79

14-00000

D'ANONTO FORMST

*Isia. i 104821951

NO VASECTION

'APPLICATION FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT

cú lup, of nanie of ei

Announcsmens Nu

DS/0SB/5ẠB.

Prong for a Aub you mish co he comidered lif lived in eiamination

1 12162

of employment sophire lor (Cury and States

lorainsis

SI-1C}

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS HICCH

Examining Cline Orly

Masarisi

I sheel

I Firmint

A111164T

meis: 180000, 040 bit as deless, of cry, bodied

Boss Lester CECZIER

Addrese ( Sergine, Sieril, Cils. 8.0818, 58086)

1607 S. 265th. Sta,

Arlincion 6, Va.

1S HE NOT DO TO DIACE

192 darren:

Oganisa

i Grace Tarnal!

Kaung

Pristinia! Mating

Tene.

ANSOLELEMENT NO.

floone phutse

7. Uilie phone

631:-0830

# Legit or volung residence (Stale)

(lone at present)

MCER - Sitatic 1.5.,

D. Alciube castloads shoes

since votina exc.

10. H'sighe

6

.3

.. inihre

210 lbs.

11. Srx

13. Marical seorus

33 Married

L Mile

ternale

83. Mirropolare (1i100 anil Seale. un foreigne connirgl

Dakalb, I3l1nois

19. sincial security dunher

June 20, 1222

331-

112

9652

dó. lé you have rece

Isen employed by dise federal Governmene, indicase last

migorinte

0 Diral.

7 inco

- 05-12

Dures of service in that graile

From

15 April 1958

Present

AVAILABILITY INTORSATRON

Initiale and

dite

A. lossse arsue or pay you

Per

1s, 18'111

_ Yes

indrieto dy "N" sa appeuprisee por or tusca

grace

I 1 0 4 mones

+ no 1i minchs

Will you

nicope less chan filitime empiogmone (less chan 80 hours

for berk)?

l'es

D.

Are you willong so restel:

Will you drops explaynen da Washington, Do

F.

sot as all Diaurit

Eir Dis

Dune lis? Bein Dia

Will you nicepe appointment only in serian hasi les so

If "Ves." lise lirations:

ACTIVE MILITARY SERVICE AND VITERAN PERFECT

A. L1s: Duses, Isranid, and seral us sorvice Number of All Airive Surica

From 29 Aug 1940

To 8 Sen 1941

Branch of Service FA - US Jag

9 Sep 1941

6 Jul 1945

USAT

serial or senir dumber

20001300

15 422º 2943

18 A2r 1949

LS:3

Disso jou c or ties alsse ianie trom the armed furies under other than hororable condions

I d'er trine dinails in decra 398

3 to

• Io you clairo Spine preferenes basué on sarrime military service?

caitipaign?

Dos you claem 10-poonr

Preferenie Client"

Tria:

_ Compensabic dabilies

M Disability

Cline Denses

THIS SPACE FOR L'SE OF APPOINTING OFFICLE ONLY

The infurmation gisen in answee so Quistion 19 has bren verined mich the discharge certidiare and it seter proud ahich abomis

char the rejaration sias under honorabie condituna

VETERAN PREFERCYCE ALON'ED:

s-poins

_ 10-puinr Comp Disad

¡Signalie and titie

Agency

i Dese

77 Non

---

## Page 80

PLEASE BE SURE TO READ ATTACHED INSTRUCTIONS BEFORE COMPLETING ITEM 19

dar requiri do made of sour persint enployes segardung your charactet, qualificationa, an record of employmens!

B Yes

Dairo in employmenis (munici, sour)

Irom dune 2e 1552.

loads sule of positions

dumber and hone of emplujore you auperains

To present tinie!

Entollitence (fieca

2-3 Gout Imnl/20 Acerta

Miary de correnge

Claisilicarion Gradle

¡ Place di empioymens (Cirg & Stale)

Rise do busances of arganisatic.

starting $ 5, 500

1 90 вевeав перьі

ichtraci

102 + 2 72502

Some and scisso of employer (rue, organicalism, al.)

Mitcaca

covernment.

contral Intelligence Agency,

N2eh:255a.25 E-0.

orane, tille, and persond address of immediare superator

Director of Personnel,

AZTENTION:

McDoNa 1o0 toastiar do leave

2

Dares di employ usene (perest, years

fram

June 1011 To 31 Jay 2957

SAlary De carmings

Starting $ 1,500

dedir.al cors.

per Yee"

contract"

Fina:

38,500

ror year

2a2l0rea

ané and dusinoss nf criplojos (pires, urgenicators, 88s.)

icruzai intelligence hgency,

Zachington

25, D.C.

dinoson dors lessing

+0000C

Desa reprina de sorti

Sco

in

carcor status.

Attrokrent

liadis title of posision

plumbes and hind of employees you superviseis

Intellirence Citicer

5

10 Agentio

Pleis vi empioymene (Culy & State)

Kind of businees ur urganipation,

1.11 19106 roboring, nicostling, incase

AMid, 886.8

!.S.

Governont

lanie, sirle, and presene aduress ol immediase supervisor

Director oi i'ersonnel,

ATTENTICN:

Exart sille of position "

LA 32495 I910TO 13 Maril 1912 | Intelligenco NOO

(Numsee are bind us empiuscie you supervised

134 Enlated ion

Silary or earnings

Glaserticationa Cirade

Pair of amploymess (rily d siale,

Kind of trusiness or organication,

Sianic: € 33.00

per month

(cated ai)

Anal $120.00

per month

Screant

dame, and desces of employer (jirmo, organizasian, es6.)

asd nix deunando Go, IET

Caribbean Air Cormand, Albrook Field, CZ

Mlitary

sane, risie, and present address of immediate supervisor

To KoWD: KuTE, Major, USAF

JEN Co LAPORT, Prico Ceno, Pentagen

Rearra dog lossina

Study under

30] • E121

Besipiptina or cort

See attachment

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORA: 57-A OR BLANK SHEETS

SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET

18-9686847

---

## Page 81

ATTACH SUFELLMENTAL GHERIS OR FORNGHEDE

• ANSITEN ALL QUESTIONS CONFECTLY AND FULLY

SU S.18AL QLALIFICATIONS AND SKILLS

ti siate or oibre lisissng authorery

Ad a ed emo peste tener.

dene

NA

Saria shois sos passend and machings and equintent lus ien use.

purinia, intinuarire, doy parato, darrel llie, daraturatà andatens, inremiofio de projeucanal drusioss

comeros, projectors, protocenino, viriless tolosrauty

a out 10 raro

72.

scono nur coscied in apridration.

lé innao: paráto ginansag and patronadonns duparagnia: noniering in prof

C. l'ear utari liéente

se certifeste

Di l'ese u! intest dan

ammur settolicate

NA

Appronimale numbri di muris por minure:

Typing

Shortasind

50 imm

toro

21. EDUCATION

Plus 8 In cuna indisting hasher grass campion

114.

21.10: 81:

se yous foraluased fam

nigh silurol, gise dale

1940

Darre artendid

D. ilame and lundiun di college ur univeraty

from

To

Untiersity of Costa Pione Son visse CoP|1219

7953

niversisy or favana, Cuba

1954

1854

C sieme and inarion of lan high rituras asseridro

Dallalo Tonnshio Figi School

Dolcio,, Illireis

l'ears completat

Condie houro

Day

Nighe

i simester Quaries

reiciand

32

Lisae

Moae

1euar.ca

Under

SiMESPER

TO459В

E. Chief undergraduare sullese subjoiss

1164.88

Cialis

Esenania Doctrines I & II

Frinairies o Ad iistration I & II

Linacial intimatics II

Esonerio Theory - deneral Eheer of Emploment - Bodrico ElCIC, Aternationna Monotery

te de necrosap, 100

sycatore,

Foägnaed 25, Caltf. (18-nonti: correspondence course in journalism) Nas 1955 to

FORLIGE LANGEAGES

22. TOKLICIN TRAVEL

l'indrisieraese!

_ No

:280M3011:.

эт pan

FULL SAME

Prancis tallians,

Iries gregor

•s Cutenko

in Prese csiumo

S.ani sh

24. REFIRENCES

Du noi repise names ofisuperiisore lired sindis iscito 8'a.

•PRESLOT ILSINRI OR HUME ADDIIS

OLSINESS OR OCCLPATION

16 tondig ad, clory Falls,

cort imployee

NoN Carlisle, ORio

USKE

100 Hain Stes

Netalurgist,

Quiney 69, lasse

2023 S513th st

US Nary (Retired)

18-76018-18

---

## Page 82

14-00000

ANITA ALL QUISTIONE DY PLACING "S" IN PROREA CURTAIN

°8. Are you eno, de hase you pier tren, a membrs of the Communise Party. l.9. A., the Communine Political Association, she Pruss

conimunire longue, ue ans Communise cigeniration?,..

sement, peous, or romberiseirn

me che commitaron el arto pi furit ss vicence er deny other poeonno their righes

under the Constiturion of she Minised Seales, int

much recino tee dicer alie form el grocererent of the d'ritrid Starra by unconseturional eicans?..

Il move animes lo ió andoo do atare as pos" sed in a separate shoe aladello deo mede a pose dehi splicion he mummi

Puerain and made uns explanatino les diving regardens coue membership no sillersee.

29. lase you any phonical handicap, chronic discase, or oenes disabiliey?

29. Have you ever lad a nerious bopancionn?..

30. Alave you erer hid isterruinsis":

1/ 70м0 4914 89 61 29, 2). пт. 100 вон.

Ham 19.

raking eraminations de nierguing civil serice appointmen? !!!

3a. Durs the three For tran

roilian capers

any

of yours (hy blood de marnage) dith whom you incor

have lived seshen thie good 28 menshe

If tast

emiler 1s

pire in firm

•8.. Tall'll onb oriadiso 11) full mane: 8i) presens voilan: 69) relutionstip: 668 degurement o

Trom the Ganed States us Destrue of Colume Surernment under any seires:

aut or any person ue dibie compensain lue malilary de naval setuse?.....

1/1000 20142

34. Are you an airial or earingro d any sire, territory, county, or municipalicy?...

19. Have you ruer turn fischareed (lirad) from empiryment for any resion?.

38, Have you ever resigned (quirl aiser being infurmed shee yeur employer intended lo ducharge (ure) you lor any reston?

Joes lls name anel meleors of cemploser, epproximense dule, and reiner.

after with reutements mosle in Sign 19-loprsirnie.

Plase vou pure been arreral, tahen into custody, held for incrarigation

quessioning, or charged by any las enforcerent authority?

Ana% 413s.

birthday:

!!)

Teerie violarione for shrih you paid a fine nol 510.00 or lers: and (2) enveling cler happened before your doil

Pon velier incidenta must be included, eron though they mere domised do you merely fortered collaiesal.à.

38; White in ela militaro serive vere you ever arrested for an offense rhich resuleed in a trial by deck cour or loy summary, sprei.i. or

seneral coute-crem,ai?.

! родо MAILA 10 11 66

1d in ogier." sue detaido in ferne 39), chawings for each insident: (1) dare, 181 cluese, (98 phair, (81 lots emporares

HIther ME 1190

crerfgr102018-20.209id8.18990l 192-ei8802s 10l209

1O, SPACE BOOR TOTALLAD A95W FRS

EN QUESTIONS

Indicate score munsteira der solouto ansacre appris:

lien St.

22

Bonana, 1942-442171tar

Panara, 1916-422 Mitor

Quatemalael nenthe, 193k

Cuba, 1954-50.

Mexicce 1958-60

Conta Face 2249-53e ducation

Ti more seare to reuel, use dil sheece on pages approvinately the same site as this pase: Write on earle sheer sour samir. dire no butle died corani.

Area i dna inside es this aspiration.

ATTENTION: READ THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH CAREFULLY BEFORE

SIGNING THIS AFPLICATION.

A false os dishonest answer to any question in this application may be grounds for rating you incligible for Feder.!

employment, or fer dismissing you efter appoiniment, and may be punisheble by fine or imprisonmen:

Tille 18, See. 1001).

All steiements made in the application are subiest to investigalion, including a check of your

fingorprints, polico recciós, and former employers.

All information will bo considered in determining your prosant

fitnoss fer Federol employment.

CERTIFICATION

i got 22 char all of the satoreno mais in this arpliction ate sur, sompises, and corres to the tant of, my knums and beir and ass made.

Signature of applicens

PonL

Cassa

-_Dic EF JULY 63

150: 09-9€91:0

---

## Page 83

AMACISE

No. 19 - Stucrience:

Ross lo Groster, PACB Pesals, Mliasis. 30 Jino 1922.

Fun june 1957 to Preserto Forsomed Intolligence Officer

duties specialising in Latin Aroriosa scuneries and areas. Supervised

ayproximately ten indigenous ince ligerca porscancl engaged in

collecting intomation of

possibie intelli enco use. Prepared Intelligance

reports

on a wide variety of subjocts minarily in tho econoric, colitical

and militury aross. Developed Intillisanue suurcus on on initiativa and

cotained information Iron native chamels utilicing techniques of inter

viewing, eliciting, interrogatica, brioring and debricfing.

For a pradately three jers on this period, served as ar

Intelligence Operations Officer on sessitive intelligence operations

projects. (Classified infornatica relatira to this aspect of expariense

may be obtained inon CIA through cleand channels)

Froz June 1949 to May 195%. Ferrorcod duties sirilar to siose

described in foregoing paragraut. Ephasis has on the detection co likel

sources and maintaining substantial contacts with foreign govim-ant

cificials. Bitensive use was made ol matira languago - Spanish.

Foa 29 August 1940 to 15 jail 1949. ds recorded on 1S As0 Sery:

100,. Ser

aration qualification Recert - i-telligence Suecialist do 031:

issists in collection, evaluation, interratation and distribution os

i-foration of enemy and counterince,"igence activitios and salt guarding

---

## Page 84

14-00000

ATTACIENT - No. 19 - Escorience - Continued.

o1 military information.

Paintaing situation maps with order of battle, flak and racar

maps, aurial photographs, and rucords rozarding enory location, streneth

and probably intentions. Maintains liaison with other intolligence

sorrices

and establishes intellironce observation posta. May assist in

the proparation for briefing and interrogation of flying personnol.

Familiar with the use of draiting instruments, balopticans,

projectors and mimeograph machiros.

Capablo of Instructing others in these subjects, preparing

maps, skotches, and recognition of enemy forces. Also fanillar with

intarpretation of acrial photographs.

During the poriod 1946 - 1949. Served in Staff Intelligence,

Headquarters, Caribbean A1r Command, Albrook Fiold, C.2. Prepered studies

sad inalyses of a military, econonic and political nature on 21l Latin

smerican republics as compiled from Military Attache's raports, CIA and

State Department reports, Supervised two to four non-cons in the establish

ment and maintenance of roference files for Geographical, Political,

Econonical and Military Intelligence sections.

---

## Page 85

REQUEST FOR PRELIMUNARY EMPLOYMENT DATA

0073-101

PART A TO ME COMPLETED HE THE ACTIVITY REQUESTINE INDORMATION

"ed maran held Resented dilde to eterna squee

T191ak99 17H0998

• sind then doorm condo 141

mud is des the terreal Herendo Centipe lavo ans esteemernon

• le she form es duo ho marled, complore toth address blocke on reverse

P. Brallas e Planets, 2 07901

7, DATE OF MATH

ED DATE ON ROULE

June 20 1922

love 2 1964

cacatin

ROSS

= ME MESONS NAMEO IS PENTATIVELY SPLETO MOA (l And ma):

( CRANGE TO A NEW AMORITAR: ORACE I REUSIATMENT

POSITION HELD AND BURIAU, SERVICE ON DIVISION OF AGRAGVi

I.O. J8 12 Contract

35 12 15 Арг 58

" SAPARATIO. CIVE DAII DO SEPARATION 28 NOV 1963

A SAGALATURE AND TITIA DO PERSON REGUASING (DE TAPPIER) INFORMATION,

17. PEL. NO. OR CODE AND EN

1177-0316

A.rs

Andorson

PART U. TO DE COMPLETED BY THE ACTIVITY GIVING INTORMATION

in che erie to which chis form

sible lee triage la and sis an

• l sheet fused elders me inche for shy chis fore

in medalresent.

he completed

mem as an early dair.

no she folder.

# 107 12.

ira field server

20, and 29 mend mad bee completed fur employees of thr

# DATE ANO TYPE DI CURRENT DE LASE APPOINIMENI

Contract Implogee. Wune 1957

# NOW SIRVINO AS CAREER-COND, ENT BEGINNING DATE DA SERVICE COUNTINO

TOMARO CARLIR TENURE.

• TITLE, GRADE (OF TRIÍ), SIRES ASO SALARY OR PRISENT OR LAST POSITION

I.0. US 12

-130.51

15 Apr 1958

A GRADE (Ur lerOl) PROMA.

MADE NO IDEARON OY CARES DU WHEN FURONED..

Central

Intellegence Agency

rashington bob.

20÷05

29 19 TME DARICIAL PIRSONNEL POIDER AND HAVE RICOHO CANNO: BE O8.

TARIGO FROM THI OPPICE 10 WHICH THIS PORAR 1S ADDRESSED, CAVE ADDRESS

TO WACH REQUEST SHOILO BE SENT

Dirretor of Personnel

Central Intrillerence Agency

24

NAME ANT PHONE NUMBER ON PERSON TO BE CONTACTIO FOR PLEASE DATE.

NoA.

" YOU CANNOT OBTAIN PHE DATA IN ITEM 25, 70. OR 27, REFER 1O

VOUR LOCAL PERSONNEL SECURITY OPTICE POR COMPLETION

TIRE ANI CUE JU ASTONE, MOVESTIGATION BULA COMPETED)

3 July 19b6

YES- DATE COMPLETED

CIA

TI: HIGHEST CLASSIICATION ACT GRADE MELO - GRADE

Sa; at $7570

MILO CRADE 1OA15 Apr: 58

1o Nov 28

03

IF NOT COVERTO IN ITEM IT. GONE NICHEST SALARY MELO VANDER A FEDERAL

(-984857)

(.1K997)

(0878)

PiTATAT NOT LIMITED TO DO DATS OR LESS:

SaiARY $10/20

Nov 26 03

Pandrag »

NAC A I INVESTIGATION COMPETED

¡CHECK AS APPICABIEI

EO 9835

SEC. MA) - 10. 10430

5/15/57

RESURTS, SENT TO AGENCY

IN COMMITRO A PROBATONARY PERUO% I

* NOW SERVINO PROBATION, GIVE DATE 1º BEGAM.

1e I SEPARATED. GIVE DATE AND INASON FOR SEPARATION

AN INVESTGATION 61 MINDING. SPECIPY TYPE.

INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY AND DATE

INITIATED.

18 SENT 10 CSE. SPICIPY CENTRAL CUFICE ON MEGION NO:

SArzOT 28 63 masoN Resign. d to set oilt of

üovert type emplcyment

I 19 TIPS OR APPY, INCIUSIVE DATES AND AGENCY UNDER SMICH COMPETITNE

STAYUS (or slipshiliny foo 18alary Me AS ACQUIRED: (Omit if same as pinto do

2P. IS THERE ADVERSE SUITABHITY INFORMATION ABOUT THIS PERSON IN PRES

OPHER THAN THE OPINIAL PERSONMEL POLDERI

1908 1 808.

NORS NO RAN ES Of TA

INFORMATION

CTER SERVICE ON OTHER LEGAL AUTHOMTY FOR APPORNIMENT:

10 IS PERSON COMMETID I TEARS OF SUASTANTIALLY COMTINUOUS SERERE

TRA' IS CHICHIABLE NOR CAREER TENLINE GIVE TIPE DR APPISI AND INCLUSIVE DATES

2's.

U

MAS THIS MASON IVER SERVED IN AN APADATIONED POSITION UNDER A STATUS

Dres

fuens this in'namation osle unra she pansion do do filled as apportuned.

RFPI)*

a shes preminon que rousinel il person so mos el barger empiore un tall resaran

UP WET. PREP .

10 DISAB

710M OT

18. INSURED UNDER VEGLIS

"A/ED. GIVE DATE OF UNCANCELLED WAVER.

SUBJECT TO CS RETIREMENT RET?

I NO

30. SERVICE COMPUPATION DATE

29

DATE OF LASI MED CENT ON PAI

28. Jan 1903

32 IS PARRE ADVIASE INFORMATATA I THE OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOIDER SINTA

Aj, PEMOVAL DA SUSPENSION ON STELATY OR OTHER GAOUNDS.

CHANGES PEMENTAS

¡ASSANS PERS RATING, LETTERS OF MARANG ON BINTMANOS

& NO

0 195

i "'", isplain ruder Remanes amino cocered to lins lo.

COMPLETE ALL ITEMS BELOW

20. NAME OF FIRSON GIVING IMFORMATIOA

iarole 0. Jenkins

31. ThE

icrin. CIficer

38 TEL. NO

2. 3- 32,50 кг

DATE

Nov

= 1964

---

## Page 86

rais

& October 1883

MEMORANDUA FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUb"BCT

Termination of Contract - Roes 1.

CroziOr

Attached is the original of Porn 1689, Clearance

Shoot for Termination of Contract Persoonel, for rotention

In your £1lc.

A copy has beon forardad to

the uifico of

Security for

their rcoordo.

?. Also attachod 18 Mr. Crosier's lotter of resigna-

In arcordance with the provision of his

providing for a ninety day notice, the realmnation becones

offectivo close

ol businesa 28 November 1963.

Doggood FitzGorald

Chief, SpecIal Affairs Stall

Attachents:

Forg

1689

Lotter

h/w

Resignation

SECRET

---

## Page 87

14-00000

EMPLOYMENT

Reason for Leaving:

1954 - 1956 - Grant completed -

1957 - 1960 - Firm went out of business*

1960 - 1961 - Contract completed

1961 - 1963 - Completed contract for which hired.

1963 - date - Desire to relocate.

Page. 2:

Re para 2 - Change "recruitment" to "employment"

NO budGind

0S/0SD/SAB

1/2:113

objecteri

Bilkatian-Covice.

to abuses Anyan, hiply me anot

agnesy is can f rain see

---

## Page 88

14-00000

RESULE

1BOX

Biladean

Crozier

1607

26th St

Arlinton 6

Va.

Tel. 684-6830.

PDUCAT.IUN

University of Costa Rica

economic & Social ciences,.

Specialized ¿conomic Theory

(1-49 - 1953)

Beonomic

8: Social Sciences,

(1954- 1956)

University of Havana, Cuba

ICEYAXXXXT

MILITARY:

E PLOY SIT

Jan 1963 to date:.

Field Artillery 1940-41

Y..: ATp Forca, 1942 - 19 (ianal zone and India-turna ireatre)

U.3. Arny

Element, Joint Operations Group

7753, The Pentagon, Wash 25, D.u.

Sep ó1 - Jan 63 :

Sep 60 - Sep ó1 :

Feb 57 - jug 60 :

Sep 54 - Sep 56 :

Budg 25, Coral Reel Drive,

•laini 56, Fla.

(Research Analyst)

a tilien

Clarence i.

erew & sons

230 Park ive.,

roY.C.

Branch Office: Coral Gables, Fla.

(Research Analyst)

- Cintant conglited

1511 Bryant Ste, Dallas,

Texas *

('Havana Office: Feb 57 to Apr 55)

Giexico Uffica: June 58 to Apr 60)

(Li tin American Consultant)

Pan in rican soundation, U. of florida,

Gainesville, Fla. Scholarship irant.to

J, of Havana®

---

## Page 89

RESUS - 3035 1. Crozier - Continued.

ANALYSIS OF EXPERIENCE:

Latin American Consultant -

drea knowledge and

Spanish language fluency dates

back to

1940-49 when I engaged in preparation of ec-nomic and political

studies and analyses of Latin

American republics for v.s. Air Force

stafi and cormand dissemination.

After studies in Sconomic and Social

Sciences at universities of

Costa Rica and Havana, I contributed to,

or supervised,

research,

analysis

and preparation

of investment and

narketing studies in Mexico and Cuba. Because of language fluency

I have frequently maintained business and social

contacts with tha

coverument agencies and indigenous organizations•

2. Iraininge Administrtion and manareinent: -

At various times, I have supervised two to fiva company personnel

twenty or

selection, art tastesty indegenous field a ents.

This also involved

and training of indigenous personnel as well.

as funding their field survey operations. Training usually xas included

the techniques of interviewing as attuned with the field of study or

survey. IX

The compilation of studies and

publications frequently

required cuitorial

supeivision and graphic presentation, using skills

in maps, photography, reproduction methods, and some knowledge of

printing®

FOREIGN LANGUAGE

Spanish - Reading - triting - Speaking: Fluent.

PERSUÑAL DATA

Age

Heälth

Marital Status

Geographical ireference

Salary

Availability

41

Excelient

Harried

two child^en

U.s. and Latin America

Open

On 30 days notice.

---

## Page 90

14-00000

1 Decender 1964

Chiof Transaotiona and Recorda Branch

Departmental Personnel Divialon

Post Office Departmont

Washington, D.Co

Dear

this de In roply to you request for a transoript of tr.

Ross L. Crosier's

service with the Central Intolligence Agenoy. The transcript 19 a3 followss

Contraot Appointment

1 June 1949

Sadary

• Increase

$400 per month

1 Nov. 1949

End of Contraot

500 per month

31 Aug. 1953

New Contract Appointment

500 per month

1 Sept. 1953

Salary Inorease

4,200 por anmu

1 Aug- 1954

Salary Inoraise

5,060 per annum

1 Apr. 1956

End of Contraet

(Agent

S,915 per annum

31 taÿ 1957

for

Conversion to Career.

5,915 por ann

• Employeo:

1 June 1957

Internal Salary Inoreace

1nfo.)

15 Apr. 1958

6,390 per anum

Salary Increase

8,330 por annum

18 Oot. 1959

Salary Increase

10 Jul. 1960

8,570 per annun

Salary Increase

16 Apr. 1961

9,215 per annum

Salary Ingroane

14.00t. 1962

9,475 per annum

Termination

10,420 per annum

:

28 Nov. 1963

10,420 per annum

All of the above service 1a creditable for loavo purposes, and all except

the period of 1 January 1955 through 31 May 1957, whioh 1s eovered by Sooial

Security, la orsditablo for Civil Service retirement.

Standard Form 1150, Reoord of Leave Data Transferred, is enclosed In

acoordance with your request.

Vory truly yourg,

Enolosure

DISTRIBUTION:

. 0 - Addressee

1 - Contract Div.

1 - D/Perg

1 = SA/C/POD

Directos of Personnel

OP/POD/OUTPLACEMENT: DLEs mlw

---

## Page 91

14-00000

Fal 'am

CROLTRA

SAlE DiO NATURI DA SOPARATIÓN

KESIGHATION 20 Bor. 1963

(Amended Cony)

SUMILAILY DE ANNUAL ANO SACI

LAVE

Botan o tras pa caro o andas I Josa

1063

360

10 6.3

?Ind

10

Tental letras mestrad

Bastarea

_Be.

a lo o de trit in da

Comod to the subenes ta seR 2020%

SUBMANT DE MOME LLAVI

¡DAYS)

J. TOTAL EUTVICE FOR LLAVE

las of reite of signo superte

Pasea

2 en es 18 ron

Dano

#TARAR 8

30c8

432

Dese entoa

18. Ditsa deso osad, porta le muestro.

26

10 mina

528/ 580 110 0o bon

12 Solo, air, 210,320,09 897 ARBuR.

350 • 26 Me. H081800,G de w c

11 lume duro

dona o chastere

Bum 29 Hor. '63_" 3 T0b. 196%

DASINCE WITHOTT PA

36 cando red,

(Dem

Tu 1890

176999 948

144104

29 Durmy tremo por in aties norte

20

29. Duro 18 meno 18, t5rme

RICORD OF LLAVE DATA TRANSFERRRO

---

## Page 92

14-00000

POST OFFICE DEPARTAENT

QUAZAU OP PERSONDE

20006

Horesher 6, 1968

iting arte

NEX

Central Intelligence Agency

Perconnel Office

2430 & Stret

Manblagion, D. C. 20973

Cant lenan:

Ro, Bond I, Croster, dob 6/20/22, prosenely coployed 1a

cho Poar-Offico Daparcocus, cloime scroleo in Craceal

Intollipeace ageocy fron 1849 to 1963.

In order that propar credle for leave and rollroas asy

Do given Mr. Crosior, li oill be apprecsatod 1l poor

offlee will furnisb coriticacica of chia service.

Sacerely yours,

Calot, Tranancelona & Records Bracch

Departesacal Porsornel Dirlala

---

## Page 93

SECRET

MOTIFICATION OF

ESTABLISHMENT

OF MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP

•CONTRACT PERSONNEL

то:

(Chuck)

ATTH:

CHIE, OPERATING COMPONENT, WH

NH/SS Mr. Hullana

REF:

Form 1322 Requesting Cover. 1& May 190%

MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP ESTABLIBNED

US Army Element, Joint Operatore Group

BLOCK RECORDS:

(OPMEMO 20-800. 11)

2. TEMPORARILY FOR -_ DAYS, EFFECTIVE

CONTINUING, EFFECTIVE

BOD

SUBMIT FORM 642. TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY TO 3.

(na =0-800-3)

DATE

27 June 1963

EBTABLIBNED FOR

Harold NoemAyR

FILE NO.

K-7210

1O CARO NO.

ASCERTAIN THAT ARMY W-2 BEING ISSUED.

(N8 30-668-8)

SUBMIT FORM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS COVER..

(8 240-130)

SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSFERRING COVER RESPONSIBILITY.

(8 240-250)

REMARKS:

→ COPY TO CPO/OP

Conne sh Thanklin

DISTRIBUTIONS

TOBY 155/ O88OReTE PRETIOUS

1- 05D/

SECRET

115.30. 429 10s

---

## Page 94

Quin. 1201

MEMORANDÚM FOR:" . Chief, Cutplacemon Servico

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Mr. Jenkina

Verification of Contract Service-

ROSa L. CROZIER

Attached lo a request from the Post Cílice Department for

the leave record and verification of service of Ross 1. Crosier.

2. Mr. Crosler's record of servico as containod la files of

Contract Personnel Diviaion Is as follows:

Date

Action

Compensation

1 June 1949

1 Novembar 1919

1 September 1953

1 August 195%

• april 1956

1 June 1957

15 April 1958

18 October 1959

10 July 1960

16 AprIl 1961

14 October 1962

28 November 1963

Hired Under Contract

Salary Incroade

Salary Increase

Salary Increase

Saiary incrosso

Career Agent

Salary Increase

Salary Increase

Salery Increase

Salary Increase

Salary lacrease

Terminated

$

$

$

$

400 per month

S00 per month

4, 200 per annum

5, 060 per annum

5,915 рез декит.

$

6, 390 per annum

$

8, 330 per annum

$ 8, 57U per anoum

$

9, 215 per sonum

$ 9, 475 per annum

$10, $23 per annum

$10, 120 per annum

3. All of the above servico in creditable for leave purposes.

Staff Agent Payroll Section should be requested to furninb the required

leave daia. Other than the perlo1 ! January 1955 through 31 May 1957

whon subject was mandatorily covered by Social Security the entire

service is creditable for Civil Service Retirement purposea.

4. It ls ouggested that Central Cover Stall bo contacied prior lo

releasing information to the requesting agency.

Jogeph B. Ragar

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Distribution:

Orig & l - Addressee

3 - CPD

21

---

## Page 95

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ine Comptroller

SULJECT

: Veriílcalios ol Agency service on Individual

Retirement record, S. t. 2000

REFERENCE

Memorandam fron. the Corpuroller to lie

Director ol Personnel, daled 21 Auguat 1156

1. Is is roquested thas the followine service ore

bo recordud on hid Individual Retirernone Record, S. F. 2000, is

verilled service tor which no deductions vere laiter:

Hired Uoder Contract

Salary Increase

Salery Increase

Salary locreaso

Tormiaton oi Creditable Service

1 June 1141

I Nov. 1347

I Sept. 1453

1 Aug. 1154

31 Lec. 1754

$. 400 por month

# Sud per month

31209 рет ділят

$5000 por adaum

$5060 por anaura

2. It is lurtner requeated that a recgipted copy of tale memo-

raadum lo returned to bieneilro and Services Division, Hoon: 1 J 37,

Headquarloro wion Subject'e service has bead entered upo. your

records.

Chie:, Benelita and Services Divieton

Distribution:

0 & 1 - Addressee

1 - D/ Pers

* OPED

1 - BCB Retirement

OP/ BSD/BCB/ Jem (7 October 1963)

Excluse: iron astoastie

5690=0-u7g 220

1=1=00

SECRET

---

## Page 96

SECRET

DATE

NOTIFICATION OF ESTAGLISHMENT

OF MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP

CONTRACT PERSONNEL

DIVISION

8 October 1963

ESTAOLISNEO FOR

T0: 118

(Check)

CaIS;

OPERATING COMPONENT

→ SAS (PrOV.)

CROZIER, Rosa ha

FILE N0.

ATT#:

K-7210

He. Dawson

10 CANO NO.

REF:

Resignce Backstop Brieflag

MILITARY COVER BACESTOP RATABLIBNLO

See remarka

BLOCK RECORDS: RESIGNATION DATE: 28 November 1963

(OPMEN" 80-800-11)

B. TINORARILY FOR __ DAYS, EFFECTIVE-

& bE CONTINUING, EFFECTIVS-

BOD

NA

SUBSET FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY TO 3.

(88 20-800-8)

NA

ASCETTAIN THAT ARMY W-2 SING ISSUED.

(n8 70-508-1)

SUAVIT FORM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS COVER.

1(8-200-.750)

SUENIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSFERRING COVER RESPONSIBILITY.

(8 280-830)

REVIKS: Cover History:

- Jul 54 - NOC,

Coverseas; Aug 54 - Feb 57 - NOC, overseas;

Hay 57 - Sept 60 - NOC, CONUS; Sept 60 - AUg

S1 - NOC, CONUS; Sept 61 - Jan 63 - NOC, CONUS;

Jan 63 - Jul 63 - DAC, Hdgs.

Subject will use above information

stopping and use for commercial use only.

he ever have need to apply for a governmental

position, he will contact this office and will

Ignore above information and use CIA from Afr

1953 on.

Fudg address not known.

COPT TO CPO/OP

#OR#

7.81 1551 80801878

DISTRIERTION: 8-OSD/

LCP/s1.

1. PSD/OS,

1-ADPD: COMFY

SECRET

113-20249)

---

## Page 97

14-00000 •

S27T

4 October 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief,. Contract Personnel Division

ЗUБJВСТ

• Termination ro contract - RoBs 1.

Attached 1s the original of Form 1689, Clearance

Sheet

for Termination of Contract Personnol, for retention

A copy has been forwarded to the Offica of

Bocurity for thetr recorde,

Also attached 18 Mr. Croslor's letter of resigna:

D' go accordance with the provision of bie contract

providing for a ninety day uotico, the resignation becomes

effective close of bustneas 28 November 1963.

Charles J. Francis %!

Dosmond FitzGerald

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

Attachnonts:

Porn

1689

h/v

Lotter

of

Resignation

SECHET

---

## Page 98

14-00000

SECRET

DATE

CLEARANCE SHEET FOR TERNINATION OF CONTRACT PERSONNEL

THIS PORN SUST RE SIGNED AND SUBMITTED IN DUPLICATE

• 020 - 01-500 0001

30 Aос8.. 1963

PERSONAL DATA

MAME Clans, Plear, Midd'o

Croiler, Ross L.

LOCAL ADDRESS

Apt. 9 1607 So 26th St Arlington Va

PLANANENT STATION OR BASE

Washington D.C.

OFFICE AND BHANEN OF ASBIGAMENT

Special Affairs start

PERMAMENY AODRESS

Same

POSITION OR FUACTIONAL TITLE

Ops

Officer

CONTRACT DATA

DATE CONTRACT EFFICTIVE

DATE CONTRACT LAST REMEDEO

DATE CONTRACT EMPIRES

DATE OF CONTRACT TERMINATION

28 November 1963

1 June 1957

original contract

contract for

REASON FOR CONTRACT TERMINATIondefinite term

indefinite term

COMPONENT

FINAACE

RESIGNAT ION

INTERNAL STAFF OR DIVISION CLEARANCES (Add or

delate as applicable)

CLEARED BY

REMARKS

02

LOGISTICS

PERSONNEL

CONTRACT APPROVING OFFICER

DATE

TIME

OFFICE

CENTRAL

COVER

DAVISION

OFFICE

OF SECURITY

550

OFFICE

OF PERSONNEL

CPD

REMARKS (PINS

SCHEDULE OF INTERVIENINA OFFICES

(OFFICES NOT REQUIRINE INTERVIEW WILL SO INDICATE)

SCHEDULE

LOCATIO

Cilrisely linifect

No interina: inse.

1 interio

INTERVIEWING OFFICIAL

23 Sep lo 3

2/30/63

Сли 30, 1963

STAFF DA DIVISION AND BRANCH OF ASSIERMENT

SAS/ BOB

1689

DIVISION RESPONSIBLE OFFICER

SAS/CONTRACT APPROVING OFFICER

SECRET

3 Cat. 63

---

## Page 99

14.00000

30 August 1983

Waahtagton 25, D.C.

DIRECTOR,

Central

Intolligenco Agency,

washington 28, D.C.

I hereby tonder uy resignation fron tha Central

Intelligence Agoncy as « Caroer Agent. In accordance with

the termination clause in ay contract, requent that all

salary be continued for a period of 90 daya from this dato.

I understand that sy servicos are to be avallable to the

Agency during the period of 90 days.

Boss L. Croster

1607

8.

28th

Arllagton

6,

St

Va.

---

## Page 100

14-00000

13 March 1963

HENORANDUM FOR:

Chlof,

Finance Division

Chief, Staff Agont Accounts Section

THROUGIL

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Reassignmont of Career Agent

Harold R. NOEMAYA

Thie la to advise you thet Career Agent Mercle ?.

NOEMAYR waS reassigned PCS IrOn JAVAVE to the Washington,

D. C. area on 21 January 1963.

HOWARD S.

PRESTON

Chief,

SAS/Support

EVIE Magan

SECRET

---

## Page 101

#ENORARDUS FURS COlOS, Eleanoe D1889l08

VIA

i Chiel, Contract Persoosel Ulelalon/up

SUOJECT

inalliscolos sor dirales Pay

(A)

Honoraadon to ALci (ron General

Conasel.

dated 2o day 1902.

Subjeet!

Bologardon of Anthority (U6t 62-1131}

(a)

sonorandon do 0015 fros Chief, Task

forces.

dosco 17 Aagus8 1962.

Subjeet:

Isntleolina of Rosstso

AlLonacco and fre

alug Yoy 8o Certalo JiNAVE Condroct der

aNIo la lo ecrelly that locali

a Carver

Agent.

assigned PCs 80

the poograpale ases of dusivE and

1W4.b60

qualitles for presius paynces accordiry lo she

autborisallon consalned lo le rolorenced minor onusas.

isla

ceraliseaslon ls based apos the follociry conclelong of subo

jeed's caployaens daring

Subjeel's hours of daly cases be coutrolled adele-

(0)

In dIder to dotinisesorlly dischargo. his cuades,

subjece la coquired do perfora Babelantial aRouses of

Ersagniar, unechedaled, ererslee doly, ood dody de

night and

on holidays.

(1).

A subgranslat anoass of Irregalar,

sebedaled.

opcroine duby

average of

al loast sla boors of sach oro bloc dady a

need.

(2)

The Irrogalar.

anseleduled,

overtlae duty

consinual regulicoest, gonorally averaglog

pero Ben once a mect.

---

## Page 102

800° 3

Hughe and doliday duty olll be portersed

810e.

IeI SaDeed

resposalble lor

recognialege

without

angerylatoo, elrenastancon madel soralre aia lo rodedo

on dudy.

he beginalag of the Cisit par perloo

colloalag i Sopreabor 1962.

WILLIAN &. HARVEY-

19/ Finds D. Echols

Ofrector of Parsoonel

29 LAN 1965

Vase

To Finance Divialon:

*APPROVED:

Special Contracting Officer

*Approved as an amondment to the compensation paragraph of aubject a current

contract authorizing Premium Pay ir. conformance with and subject to the

policies of this organisation.

---

## Page 103

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

DDP/TFW

To imployao's nome land soctol securly DEsosi

umber mian appropriatel

NOEMAYER, Harold F. (F)

BASE PAY

OVERTIME

GROSS PAY

%. Prortors

normal

CAREER AGENT

PAYROLL CHANGE DATA

RGT.

FEDERAL

TAX

DONO

DU..A. DONERNMENT PRINTINO OFFICE: 19BA-StOODO

8. Arres mortod

3. Bhort No.

4 36 Ats

I Goade and watery

$80.105

STATE TAX

GROUP

LIFE INS.

NET PAY

9. Pay Pisse

10. demors

I CERTIFY TILAT THE WORS OF THE ABOVE NAMED

IS OF AN ACCEF TADLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE

1l, Reperation)

12. Propored by

jiv 23 Oct h?

TS. Audited dog

ld. Elfactho

13. Date lod

doro

140c:02/16Apr6l

following partial

l No excen 1 WOR. Porol exteNs I WOR

STANDARO FORM NO. 11200-Horiad

1d. Old totury

rato

$10,105

T8. New sadory

rote

910, 220

T8. Performance Poling to auberry se sorter.

in pay statue al and or mating pariad

ÔA NOP daris of and of with sorted,

MARRIES TRA PAYTOLE CHANGE SLIP-- PERSONNEL COPY

-mPlate of Chart

---

## Page 104

14-0000

25 Soptaaber 1962

REMORADUN PERA CAlOR, Coalssat PoreonesI Piutalon

SIEJECT

Applicarlan of Honsluy Allaanco fur Cortaln

Contrast Porsanzal

It da renord thai the destrasto los the folloving nassa

Contraat Balenoa sad Cardes Aguato lo eronded lo Ialsilo, 1a Ra

applicablo puragapà, sho prorialoas

"Ion are barold wtoriei nouring assimian in

onformane sith end risjost to tao pallodas el Balo

CADICE, IrVInE O. (Ceress Agert)

GEYDOLO, Irving C. (Caroor Agent)

MORAIP, Farold il. (Carsar Aguas)

CLAVA:CO, Milio B, (Contract iaployoo)

HARD, Draco D. (Contrar" Laployao)

#APPROVED:

Bipprovod as amendiment affective

1 jeptembor 1962 to the contracto for the

individuale liated above.

Spoclid Contracting Ufficor

---

## Page 105

14-00000

SECIETI

30 Noveaber 1961.

NEHORANDUM! FOR: Contract Personnel Divialon

SUBJECT

: Harold R. NOEMAY (pa)

he LIndes Project is being terminated and starting on 1 Jan

aid Coon allotment 42335-5452-1000

CAiH/3

As For PT

м не (2961

mustrove

SEGRET

---

## Page 106

14-00000

15 asprerbar 1061

MESOHANDUN SC1- Cereer Agent Panol

SUEJECT

1 Andtmaone of Harolu E. Beeryor

Apprrval 1a recasated lor tha PCS scelezarni of frorjer

to ulAve, a damuatlo bane. Surjos, tiil bo uilllael no aa

Opo Orficer Le Pa/Propagnodn autiritios In aveport 3°

Projose MaTh. Il la asbleipitod thas doorger will rocolve

a BaTor zelATy (orfset) during tào parico af tasa asalaurant.

Bush affeat vould not exccod hia nos Ayency cacçeaaation..

J: C.

SuTiG

wotri

Heatern Hrelentaro Dirlofe7

Xanin (0. Cumats n

Scorocacy, 05/0S Agont Varel

---

## Page 107

Mr.

Harold R. Noemayr

Dear Mr. Noemayr:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Goveramen,

as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 June i957, as amended.

Effective close of business 10 June 1961, that portion of Paragrapà two (R)

entitled Compensation ' which pertains to the authorization of additional compet

sation la the amount of $80 per month is deleted in its entirety.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remala in

full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Clilcer

Kit die/die fact il

---

## Page 108

28 June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR$

SUBJECT

Contract Personnel Hivision

Amendment of Contract, case of Karold R. NOEMAYER

It is requested that to Contract for Subject, as amendod, be

further amended to discontinue that portion of the "Compensation® section

which atatoo "You vill receive additional compensation, anounting to $30.00

por month, effective 8 January 1961, In lieu of payment of the regular

overtine rates for Irregular, unacheduled and frequert overtime, for the

duration of this assignnent".. It 1a requested that this discontinuance be

offocted C.C.P. 10 Jee 1961;

AFPROVED 1

-ont 2as0l

Chief, Wi/i/Support

SECRET

---

## Page 109

14-00000

Віднід чаВ чЕ. ВА

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

• SCO (Mr. Leutssher)

DATE: 7 June 61.

PROX : Operationa Division, Medical Staff

SUBJECT: NCEMAYR, Harold R. (p)

Subject has been evaluated by the ledical Staff and found physically

qualified for departrental duties oaly.

The Medical Staff recomends

thạt Subject receivé annual medical evaluations.

Donald W. Farley

Administrative Officer

Distribution:

Original - Addressee

1 - WH/b (Hardt)

1 - 00/1S

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Agency and orpure

DDP/ WH

J. Employed's nara land ascidi anurity arcount number when appropriato.

NOEMAYES, HAROLD R. (P)

CAREER AGENT

BASE PAY OVERTIME!

GROSS.PAY

PAYROLL CHANGE DATA

RET.

FEDERAL !

TAX

7. Preven

PORT AR R

F.L.C. A

normal

* Paw 47

T0. Reworka

U. A. COVEUNHENT PRINTINO OFFICH: 1084-920089

Paypall period

3. Burch Nia

# 54p No.

8. Grade ond salary

$9,215

STATE TAX

GROUP

LIFE INS.

NET PAY

11. Appropriaton(x)

T2. Propored by

flv 22 March 61

dars

Ta. Did satory

16A pr61/ 180c50

$7,215

19. 1WOP dera (Fit in commanta toces corning IWOP

adorino parists s

17. New actors

$9.475

STANDURO FORA NO. 11285-2sub0d

Окреая 28, 1994

Confidential

sortess Na. 102

atalertors or bester.

Jongs h

no one smart are

[Cheet appikabla bos la

Ci la pay status al cod of waising period.

Di in IWOP stoPus of and of waites period.

PAYROLL CHANGE SLIP - PERSONNEL COPY

hastials of Cland

---

## Page 110

SECRET

MI. Harold R. Noemay

Dear Mr. Noemays:

Reference is made to jour contract with the United States Government,

na representod by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 June 195% se amended.

Effective & January 1961, and to continue for the duration of your current

assignment, paragraph two (2) of subject contrach, entitled "Compensation" le

amended to authorise additional compensation in the amount of $80. 00 per

month in recognition and compensation of the Irregular.

unscheduled and

frequent requirement of hours of duty over and above the regular and dally

schedule.

• All other terms and conditions of the contract,

as amended,. remain in

full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Contracting Officer

Retail draggi

C'ar Agt.

---

## Page 111

4 laü 25t3.

tra Di due

S01.0E

Contoret torsenrel Division

incent of cortanet, coor of irroid do danca?

It la marnod tire the Contract for Subjoet, as acrari, do

da sollo ing additions

errotivo scarar apri, in dion of pegnont of the rogalea overtina rateo

lo irroria, rochadries und irachent overtino, fer ile dirution on thin

scateneno

Arroni! ly CS/CE AgonE Fanol

Sei Wi metrong

S2E30

---

## Page 112

14-00000

..

Harold R. Noemays

......

Noemayrs

26 November 1960

,:. 1.1

laretinini:.

..tо рі" і і!

r.....:',•

;millino tre difilonin

"....

*.;..,...?.

tiratinn

7: л.:

.:...

---

## Page 113

145. Harold H. livemays

Dear Mr. Mcanayr:

Kelorence lo maño lu your cuntract wirh the Uritoditates Covernment,

no roy rosonted by the Contracting Colicer, aldoclivo ( Juno 1997, as amonded.

Liluctive 15 Lobruary 1960 said cuntract, an ainerded, ls further a nondod

by aciding alter aubzaragranb (c) o paragraph four (1) entitied "Allumancos!"

the following:

•(d) You will bo ontilled do a huino service tranefor allowanco in contora-

ance with apulicable fiovertront rogulationa. "

All uthor pories and conditions di the contract, us amendod, remain in full

force and offoet.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

---

## Page 114

14-0000

SECRET

15 february

1960

¿EMOPANIUM FOR, Chief, Contract Personnel Diviston

SUBJECT

: Harold R. WEtYR (ps)

It is requested thit the contract for harold fi. NEMYR,

Career Arent, be amended to irclude a "Hone Service Trangfer

Allsranee."

C. King

fir chier, wiD

---

## Page 115

14-00000

SECRET

23 Horror 1959

MENORAULUN FOR Olor, Finance Miviolca

VIA&

•Ontes, Contract Horsonnel Division

StoJECTe

Requeet for Parledio Step Increase

Barold Ro NUMATA (Cartor Arunt)

It la roquestod that Subjoet's contruct be amonded to

show a pericclo step incronao fron 10,930 to 19, 570, setro

active to 1B Cotober 195%

Nuzzky"le porfomance during the

partod 15 Ajall 1950 to 20 October 1959 has been eatlajactory,

Chi08, KHD

CONCURREZICE S

Pers

Denti

''crie

aler, contrating Cricor

SECRET

---

## Page 116

fatal et itrtion, dacise sily

idiot at stating it.

Catal, vio

rand all 15: 107-14r1

Clara po-da co fallinen:

artin out fur salon then mind pu to at ti

abal-lind berritory at p4046r9 15e

0f Sir 0r2-210-11070

419 1044 91111991:900 18 101 10г7.70 1919

canta do trist:

Üntributions

3 = Headeo i 1ty

---

## Page 117

14.00000

2 0 AUG 1958

Harold R. Noemayr

Moxico, D. 8.

Mexico

"Normayo

Dear kre

In March of this your, you volunteered for and

affectively cartied out an Agency assigment which required

you to enter the rebel hold territory of eastern Cube.

of the cuban rebel forces, winning their friendship, and

bringing out a quantity of significant and timly intelligence,

under conditions of hardship and porsonal risk, you diaplayed

Intlative, resourcefulness and courage in the best tredition

of our organisation.

Jou are camended far a job vall done. A copy of

th18 lotter vill be placed in your peraonnal file.

aincerely,

Strain i

C. P. Cabell

General, USt

Deputy Director

---

## Page 118

ta-tended

SICALI

-==

¿tinctivo liva; 195ã, said cortrace, as a sundei, la further Binended li

th• followins rasnra

a. The flist auntonio of subopars, rajh (0) ol paro rapt

sour (4), entited 'Allowanca, " lo revisod lu suades fillomo:

"In adaision to the above pay sents, you will be entitled

so an equalization allowance co sauted la corfor nance with

arlicable Gover it seculatiora and policite.

infor nation, b: qualization allowanco for Mexico Cily lo

Prudently $000.001"

D. The followin, sub-paragraph la sodid altes aub paragravi:

(e) of paragrape thee polo antitied "Iravel":

"(d)

For you, your diggiento, yous peisural soio nobile

and your honachola chienta belseen pornament posts of ..

aisiuaneni."

All other tor no and cooditione of the contract, as a nendud, renain in

full force and erect.

You sill lease idleat your approval be oldog in ta space proutied

1:.10w.

UNITED SIATHOU AUCTICA

DY

ACCIPIL::

Harold fo

WIT: ESS:

LAPPINVAD:

106.na3.

---

## Page 119

14-00000

mwtafx.ceet

Mr. Harold R. Noemayr

Dear M8. Noemaye:

Reference le made lo your contract with the United States Goverament,

as reprosested by the Contracting Olicor, effective l June 1957, no amendod.

Effectivo I May 1958, dald contract, an amended, lo furtsor amended in

the following manor:

(a) Tho firal sentenco of sub-paragraph (b) of Paragraph

four (4), entitled "Allowances," lo revioed to road as followat

"Ja addition lo tho abovo paymento, you will be entitled

to an equalisation allowanes computed in conformance will

applicable Governmeat regulations and policies.

(For your

Information, the equalisalioa allowance for Maxico City la

preseally 900.1'

) The following aub-paragraph le added after sub-paragraph

(e) of Paragrapa five (5), entitled "Iravel",

"(d) For you, your depecdente, your pereonal automobile

and your bouschold effects between permanent posts of sadignment. "

All other tormo and conditions of the contract, as amendod, semain in

full force and affect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Contracting Olficer

APPROVED:

Dilan - 3ane 1935

SI/WH/LIZOGE

Career (jant

co. a pickett, 1-205500 3162

---

## Page 120

14-00000

SECRET

STANDARD FORT 90 00

Office Memorandim • UNITED STATES GOVBENKBNT

TO

800 (ir. Inetacher)

DATE:

19 siny 1958

M038 : Operations Divialon, Madioal Start

JUBJACT: Esrald R. HOSHAIR (p)

subjort bae been pralusted by the lodioal. Staff and found.

qualified for proposod oversons assigment.

Addinistrative Officer

18B/JRF: alp

Diatribation:

Or'18.= Addresses

1 - h8/3 (Puckett)

1 - 23

SECRET

---

## Page 121

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

F8175

applaradio

Fernard or

and one cope li!

2555

SECRET

316•2-

1. Io. Puckett

49104

2555 cr 3862

CLle

DATE.

16. ADr1l 2958

X..C

но.

Harold R. NOEYAYR

30.

PIAMARES:

STATION

SEUDO 90

kren duke

Arthur G. VAIVADA

Career Agent GS: 12

$7,570.00

SECURIPT CURARANCE (TTGO

OSA 3 July 1957 (Apenanat, do BIegg"s to 1m-

INDIVIDUAL

HOURS AWAY

#ILL BORR

UNDER "IPATROLLED CONDITIONS"

STATE

EMPICTEd OR

AT AUE

ITEM IN STERILE PORN !.E.. "U.A.

10.

PROPOSID CATEGORY (COMPrACE AGEnE.

confract

saploços.

Career Agent

SECTION

USA

LEGAL RESIDENCE (CERY AND SCATO DI COURSEY)

Omaha, Nebraska

MARITAL SPATUS (CAEi*

FERSONAL DATA

ALI ENTIRER: INDIVIDUDE IS A PERMANENTIS.

D..

35t

'20 Juno i922

DATE OF BIRTA (MoniA, doy, yoar).

CURRENT RESIDENCE (CAly and alade as country)

Alexandria, Virginia

1D. NUMBER

GEPINDERIS iNOr abilallad Individual)

HELATIONSHIP

AND

AGE:

Three, wife and two children

18.

INDIVIDUAL IS

RELAILO TO A STATE

HAPLOrEE.

STASE

INDIVIOUAL

CURRENTLY

"ORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SOME

CALATION SATP

SECT 101

111

20.

RESEATE

NO

83.

BRANCH OF SERVICE

USATHY Le US AlS Force

SECTION IV

28. BASIC, SALARY

VETERAN

U.5.

MILITARY

STATUS

22.

sorrie

(Londonity.

cordat

non-coabat)

RAME OR GRADE

Tech Set

39, DRAFT ELIGIBLE

Dres

DRAFT

BY

DEFERMENT DOTAINED

COA

00 ..

$7,570.00 p/a

None

LiMPENSATION

20.

coxes (Breakdown.

1l any)

Incore derived from cover will be

turned in to Station

30-

PAXIS TO DE #ITHHELD DY

Deares

00.14

SECTION V

ALLUMARES (NORMALLY GRAYISO GULY TO RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES)

31:

QUARTERS

32.

03. OTHER

$2,200.00 p/s

None

COVEA (Breakdown, if any)

Education 1(22 1 en) 8500, 00p/22, not to exceed

None

additional $136.00

SECTION VI.

39.

TYPES

DE. BIT DEPENDENTS

0 ..

"havana can to no on

„MaX SPLENDENTS STATE RELATIONSHIP. ENTITEMSHIP. AGE ANO DATE OF BIRTH

Wife, Costa Rican citisen, born 15 March 1918

Son

a born & September 1949 - US citison

Daughter

born 24 June 1951 - US citizen

CONFORMANCE @IT*

SECTION VIL

PURCHASE DE

IFORNET:US

que de nranded top

OPIRATINAL

ENTETAIAMIRT

Yes.ag

provided for in

EXPENSES

oi: OP travel in Mexico. Yes,

as

Mantided on in nantert turnal

---

## Page 122

14-00000

SECRET

01, 18;

CONTRACT INFOPMATION AND CHECK LIST

(CONTINUED)

SEF INSTRUCTION: 18 88838 SHPPY

L. Do Packete

PHOSE DITEN9104

2555 0r 3162

ONLY 44/112

WILD

PAPE

16 Apr11. 1958

164851956588

carodordes

Fund Refu

arifica

sine dodulations for Bonel

luna yarrous

Annual leave

Sick leave

Death and di sabd11ty

•bonefita oqual to those authorized under Federal imployues

Compensation Acte

Hasing Porsons Act.

Civil Service Retirement

2 ducatina alis

Regular Staff imployces medical benofita for employee and dependents as stated in R-15 230

(Subtect vill nast rogufrements when completes covert medical on 21 April. 1958)

• Notional

LOLCIED ON MEIMNUNDABLE

тgr.$160,

INCOME DOD GINTO IUOLIOLITS LIAITED

DESÉT OF INCOME:

ACTIVIPIES

thon todal, jumpily in doparato mono

"plachod hoseto. )

T-1716K

L 1 May 1958

POMFESTURE OF HETUNA TRAVEL

PRIOR TO CONTRACT TEMMINATION

HETE NO

FUNCTION

ANjAARE FUVCTION (PI. AP. 01800)

OUTIES

37.

SEDERAL DESCRIPTID DE CÚTILS iO DE PESTORMEO

Cass cificer for Corundet Party operationa in Mexco.

SECTION XIV

QUALIFICATIONS

EXFERIENCE

Contract and career agent since June 1949.

Intolligence assignmenta in Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Cuba.

EGUCATION

(chich Micher)

LANGUAGE COUPETENC

COUNTRY ME

CODATROUAL ORIGIM

beAr*e Competency

kaglish

Spardsh

USA

62.

AREA GAOHLEDGE

Extensive area knowledge of Central Arrica and Caribbean areas. Has resided in Latin.

America since 1940.

PRIOR

EMPLOYMENT

SECTICE XY

108 140

190

AODITIONAL INFORMATION

SECT12% YVL

DA. ADDITIGIRL OR UNUSUAL DECLIPENNES.

JUSTIFIGATIDES DR EXPLANATIUNS (l'SA ORDER

side if necessory)

Ái PROVAL

---

## Page 123

14-00000

SECRET

Herald: I Sarmags

Dear tir. M

Heierence is made to your contract with tie United Stalen Govarment.

1s represenied by ino Couracting Officer, effective l June 1957.

Effective ! June 1997, Buid Contract in amenied by addlog ifter aub-

paragraph (b) of Faragraph foso (i), entitled "allowances," the following:

"(e) You will be entitled so an educacional allowance in

conformanco with imi at the rates prescribed in applicable

sorernment sogulationy."

Mil atror tors ind conditions di the contrace rumuin in full force and

offect.

UNIITO STATES COVERTIONE

Contracting Officer

APPROVED:

SHK/K-16.7319 58

Cres Egent

---

## Page 124

14-00000

Stunci

12 May 2958

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Diviolon

FI/OPS (Miss Parton)

VIA!

SUBJECT&

do It 1a requested that Subject's contract effective

I June 1957 be amended to include under Paragraph l,

Allowances, that Subjeet be entitled to the Educational

Allowance for his children, effective from the initial date

of the contract.

2e

"The above provision was insdvertently onitted

from Subject's contract by the Area Desk, and since the

Station notified Subject he was entitled to this allowance,

It would be appreciated if this matter be corrected and

the contract amended accordingly.

The error came to the

attention of the Area Deak when Subject's claim for

educational allowance dated 18 April 1958, was turned down

by Finance Division because of the aforementioned omission

from the contract.

Rubert Di. Desigin

fond. C. Ring

Chief, Western Hemisphere Diviaton

---

## Page 125

14-00000

SECRET

Dea:

Roforonce la mado lo your cortract with the initod Stales Government.

• roprosented by the Contracting Officor, eilactive l Jurs 1957.

•lective 15 April 1908, said contract is a nonded by revloing the firal

sontonco ul paragraph tro (2) entiflod "Compersatio:' to road as lollows:

In full consideration dor your servious do it Cirear Agect.

you will bo compennated at the sate of Stato per annumi,

G3-12."

All other tarmo and conditions dí the contract, no amundod, romain

ilia full force and efiece.

You will ploade indicare your approval by signing in the spaco providod

below.

UNITED SIATUS GOVEREMSNT

Conracting Cilicer

ACCEPTED:

#VITIESS:

APPINVED:

---

## Page 126

14-00000

SECRET

15 April 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

THROUGH:

FI/OPS/Projects

Attention: Miss Parton

SUBJECT:

• - Amendment of Contract

Karach it

tremeng

1. It 19 requested that Antimatter contract, effective

I June 195%, be amended by deleting the first sentence of Paragraph 2

(Compensation) and substituting in lieu thereof the following:

"2. Compensation. In full consideration for your services as

a Career Agent, you will be compensated at the rate of $7570 per annum,

GS-12."

2. All othor terms and conditions of the original contract remain

1n full force and effect.

1_17 April is

SECRET

---

## Page 127

STANDARO FORM NO. 0A

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

*TO

: SCO (Mr. Luetscher) '

DATE: 1, May 1957.

FROM

: Spocial Support Staff, Medteal Stars

SUBJECT:

(p)

ubject has been evalanted by the Medical Staff and found qualiflo

for proposod PCS overseas assignment.

Administrative fficer

MS/VJE: clp

Distribution:

Orig. - Addresse

1 - WH/3 (Noland)

1 - MS

SEGRET

• :

---

## Page 128

14-00000

Dato:

recale:

Dea

Reference la made to your contract with the L'nited Statos Government;

1s represented oy the Contracting Officor, offectica 1 August 1Y54, an amendodi

• said contraer.

se amended, is heraby

-ese by ran Couscat of the partios theroto Bad in lieu thereat the

followiag agrooment in subsilluted:

The United States Government, as represeated by the Contracting Officer,

haraby contracts with you for your serviced as a Career Agent under the

following ferme and conditions:

1.

Statug. By virtus of your relationahip with the Undied Stales Covera-

ment in tha performanco of servicea under this agroomens your legal stabuo

lo that of a Governmens employee under contract. As such, you sra onilliad

only so the righta, privileged and benefita atipulated beroin. It la undoratood

that you will act under cover suitable to diaguide your relaMonahip to the

Government, but you will bo subjact to adminiotrativa and operational direct-

lona and control by the Government at all times.

•%. Componsation. In full consideration for your servicoo an a Coreor

You will 5o Compinasiod as tse pate of $6390 por annum, GS-1l. In

addisico, you will bo ontillad to within-grade procationa in a manner aimilar

to the procedures proscribod for Government stall amoloyees. In the evene

that tho salary leval of your indicated grade le sitered by Federal logialation

and adopted by the Coveraman, the compeneation autherined under thia

contraor shall bo altered accordingly. Paymento vill be made bereunder as

direcied by you in writing in a mannor acceptable so the Goverament.

3. Taxes. (a).

In the event taxed are not wichhald by your cover facility

or in she event your cover lacility withholds sases on daly part of the compon-

satios due you hereuadar. the Government, In view of security cone dorationa

involved, will withhold fodoral incoma taos from all or the remainder of

taxablo monles due you under thia contract in sa amount equivalent to the

United States income tax withholding ochedule base: mon your taxable Income

under this agreemant ani

presort exempionis). Sume do withhold by

the Coveramant will bu paid over to the Intara! devaube Service. No form

Via will be lagued you by tho Government and you mili do instructed at to the

mathod to be lollowed in raking timely filing oi resuras, ebumates and pay

mento in order to preserta security.

(b) Il for cover considerations your las paymonts exceed your

true tax lability under this agraement, the Governmen: will make appropriate

¡ralroursemona la conormance with applicable palcies and procedures.

ocribed in the Stardardized Regulationa

(GovernaHguansAnda) pYAHgal Palptitled to Uring quartere allowances in

conlormance with and at the raisa pres

---

## Page 129

14-00006

(D) In additión to the above paymento, you will bo obtilled

to an equaliasiloa allowance calculated al the rate of $aged por annum.

This

allowanco la la liou of any present on futuro standardized post allowaace

parablishod lor your prosent permanent poor of duty overseso, bus la subjoct

to tho ontitleront provialona applicable to siendardised poor allowances. It

Is underaros ar! s8recl insi lis allomance la predicated upon the compara.

five cost of living berwoen Washingion, D.G., and your overdand post, your

unolfleas coser. lamily atatus and basic compensation. Consequently, thie

allowaoce may be unilaterally adjusted or discontinued by the Govarameat

thonever warrasted by a change In any of these factors. No secousting will

be required for thie allowance.

J. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funde for the following

travel and traneportation exponsos:

(a) For you alore for authoriaod operational travel. la addition,

you will bo entitled to reimburgement in accordance with standardiaod

Covernrent rates for the anorized officlal use of your private auto.

mobile.

(D) Upon the satisfactory complation of each two (2) yeare ol

succousiul overseas service under tole contract, you wiil be entitled to

bome leave traval expensed for you and your copandento from: your perma-

nont post ci duty overeean to your place of recorded rosidence in the

United Statas and return travel expenses to your permanont post of duty

overseas; provided, homover, that you have lullillad any other requiro.

ments relating to home leave which are applicable to Government aball

employees.

(e) Upon the succesalul completion of your services uder this

agreemail, for you, your dependents, your household affecte and your

privalo sutoriobilo from your permanent post of adsigameat averseas to

your place of rosidenco in she United Starea.

You will be entitled to per diem in liou of subsiotence in the couros of all

travol performed barouader and, when authorized, for you alone walle on

temporary duty away from your permanent post of assigarent. All travel,

transportation and por diem prorided for under thia paragraph suust be

properly aulborised and expenses Incurred herounder are subjoct to payment

and accounting la compliance with applicable Guvernment regulatione.

6. 9aas3600ãà Expenaza. You will be airanced or reinibursed lunda for

pocessary opersional expenses incluliga, bu aot limited to, entertainment

and the purcasas of information, as specifically approved by the Governaiest.

Such funde will do subject to ascounting la compliance with Covernment rega-

Jations.

7. Repaymeni. Is is recogalzed that your failura to accout for or refund

Auy conies advaace: yuu bereunier shall entitle the Comrameat to withbold

• lue local arount oi such intobteinoss or acy portion thereod fror. aay rontes

due you under the tornis of this contract in euch manner an it deeme spprop

tiste.

---

## Page 130

14-00000

8.

Bonofita, (a) You will be entitled to death and dinabllly bezelles

equal so thuse suthorised unde- le federal Amployees' Compereatiss Ac!.

as amanded. Claima by you, your heira, or legal reprecontativas ander ible

paragraph will de processed by the Governmons in accordance with us proced.

ure in such manner as not so impair security.

(b! You wil! Do entilled to continuance-of pay and ailowances

In a'manner giniler to that del forth in the Mladlag Persons Ace (Sc U.S. C.A. "

¡App. 1001÷10151.

(c) You will de entitled to alcà and annual leave egral to Bod

subject to the same rulen and regulatione applicable to Government stall

omployeea., Such annual leave may only be taxen at times and places approved

in advance by appropriate representativoe of the Goverament. All accrued

but ununed leave earned under your contract with the United States Carerament

effactivo 1 August 1954, an amonded, will be transferred to your leate decount

under lois afreement in conformanco with enabilahod croditing procedures.

(d) From tha compensation paid you purmiant to phie con-

¡trace. Rero ahall be deducred the appropriate rate percentage (premesty

6 1/25) for deposit and erentual erediting to the Civil Sorvice Retirarent

Fund. Il the conditione of your cover warrant or pequire that you make toa

¡tributions to le Social Security fund, such contributions nhall be at roar

expenso.

9.

Cover. It lo anticipatad ba: you will undertake cortain covar employ-.

mone in the course of your parlo-rance under thie agreement. It lo expresaly

underatood and agread that any sad all documenta abich you may executo in

the course of auch cover employment are subordinate lo this agreamon and

any contradictios la terms which may In any way amolify, ortend or sootrice

your rights andior obligations besounder shall be resolved by this agreement

which abail always bo dominani.

10.

Offest. Any and all compengation, allowances or other babe ila

(Including bonellis In Mind) recoired from or chrough your cover actirities

will be used to offaer amounts due you under this contract and will redeco

| accordingly the Gorerament'e direct payment obligation heroundor. Same so

i offeet are payment dy the Government under this conienct and for pursues of

¡Federal lecome paration. You will report every sir (5) monthe during te

term of this agreement all benetits recolved from or thraugh your covor

activities and, if such banofits exced those due you ander this contrace the

repor! will bo secompanied by said erress amount, which you hereby agree

lo the soio property si the Governient. Failure to submit timely reports ged,

as approprtate.

escese paymenta,. indy result In suspension of any payments

due you hereunder.. As an alterrative to the above, the Governmost may se

• any time esoreise ila baule sighi lo reguire payment over to lt of the amalu.

¡ menta received dy jos from or irreugh your cover activities which monia

other ver se ofise: as described above.

In such cases the Government will

pay directly to you the emoluments called for by this contract.

11.

Erecution of Documeris. Il, lo the performanco of services soder

thia contract, you assume the custody of Government funda or take Mie el

record to properiy al any nature whilacever and wherever situate, which

property dao la fact been purchased wich monieg o! the U.S. Govrame»..

you hereby rocognise and acknowlodge the endstance of a truer relationsis,

either express or consiructive, and you agree to execule watever dormenta

may be required by se Govaramant to evidence this relailorship.

---

## Page 131

12. Secrecy, You will be required to beep forever docrot thie contract

and all information which you may obtala by reason boroo! (aniese raleased

in walting by tbe Government from such obligation), with full koowledgo that

violation of such secrecy may subjact you to criminad prosecution undor the

Esplonage Lavo, dated 25 Juno 1948, s8 amordad, and other applicable lass

and ragulationg.

13.: Instructiona. Inatructione recolved by you from the Goverament la

brioling, trainiag or otharmie aro a part of thle contract and are incorporated

herein, provlded tbat ouch Inetructions are aot inconstetent with the ter ins

hereol.

14. Unauthorised Commitmonte, No promisas or commitmento pertaining

¿o sights, privileges or benefita other than those expresaly aripulated la

wriling in this agreement or any amendment therato enall be binding on the

Government.

13. Term.

Thia contract is effoctive ao of

and shall continue shereafor dor da indefinito period mloso sooner terminated

(a) By ninesy (90) days' acinal noblio by ellaar party boreto, ar

(b) Withour prior notice oy the Government, in the orgas oí a breach

of this contrace by your violation of the security provisiona horeod or

by your otherwise rendering yourself unavallasle for acceptable

sorvico..

¡an the event of voluntary termination on your part or tarmination lor cause by

¡the Government you will not be entitled to the travol expanse set forth la

paragraph five (3)(c) supre.

Termination of this agreement will not rolease

¡you from the obligallone of any security oath you may be required to sake.

UNITED SIATES GOVERNMENT

BY_

Costracting Officer

¡ACCEPTED:

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

TH5/p4.19769-57

Careein

---

## Page 132

30 January 1957

HENRANDU: FOR. Chief, FI

SUBJECT

Hayuest for Conversion of e

Contract to Carcer Agont Status.

REFRENCE

• HK41-2977

Reforenced dianatch fres the flold rocommanda the conversion

of contraot ayont erahtmariavala lo stall ststua and presento a

atrong case for such conversion, Upon receiving a formal bio roquémt..

for such action, howover, your Plans Stall vuggested that caroar

agent status would be more appropriate in thie case, and further

Inlicatad thnt staff status for duesten le virtually out of the

question at this time.

The roquest is beiry r- subnittod, therefore,

in revised form to provide for conversion to career rather than staff

status.

2. than has served CIA in a contrict capolty since 1949, with

& continuous high lovel of perforance, first in Costa Rica, later in

he la currently asslared to Cubi and 1a expected to

romain there indofinitely. premat 1s 36 years old and ma promoted

sucantly to the equivalent of a C10 rating, His exproased career

Intoscar 110 in continuad amlognent by Chi, voro espocially in to

arca of unofficial cover assigments, for which he la highly suited.

3. In view of VANAl's outatending rocord as a contract agent,

his etrong overall qualifications, and his expressed desire for a

oareer with ClA, it is reconended that he bo grunted careor agent

status. A PiS and a nov contract check liat (in duplicate) are attached.

& WH Division contomplates bringing into the 1.3. for

covert training during the latter part of 195%

Approval for the conversion of raill from contract to

caroor agent status, as indicated above, la hereby requeated.

J. C. KINC

Chief, lestern Henisphore Division

Attachnonts

PIS (2)

Contract ,Check idst (2)

---

## Page 133

14-00000

SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

SYMA THEY

nor applirats

Pion of rontinet.

1. 0P109 1

inserting seren

roard asidanal and one copy y

Fbis Di dioland

PAINTICE

2056, 2971

GRAINAL

WH/ III

PAPE

30 Janiasy 1957

PROJECT

68.57214

N ANFECDARCH

ALIDIMINT NO.

SLOT Nо.

PREViOUS CIA PIEUDO

3517-014

OR ALIASTS

MA

He subject First Faciates"In 'Panama as ASBACFATHIC

CLA CA ITS ALICO (OVER)

in November 1948; transferred to Conta Rica in HUMINOID Project.

3E6U81 1Y

CESARAMCE

(Typo and dale)

Subsequently sa transferred to kIRADIAL Froject and FESUCCESS.

Oporational Clearance = 19 July 1954

COOTRACT IS TO DI

IBDIVIDUAL. HILL BOOK

HOURS ADAY IRON SUBJECT'S MOVE

UNDER "CONTROLLEO CÓNDITIONS

FURLOTER

AND PERFORMLO UNDER

Pure xtram 8

PROPOBIO CATEGORY (COATRACe AfORE.

Carcer Agent

ACTION I!

COTIIRUSNIS

12.

U.s.

RESIDENT

IS LEGAL ALBIDENCE (COlD ONd ORAtO

Sterling, Illinola

18, MAMITAL STATUS (CAOCE dO APPrOPOIS

PERSONAL

INOIVIDUAL

are.

or counter)

DATA

DATE OF BIRTH (HORSA, day. yoOr)

CURRENT

20 June 1922

RISIUINCE (Clly and alato of country)

Habana, Cuba

1 8.

• 1000EO

NEPINDENTS (Hol includina irddeidual)

INSIVIQUAL IS RELATIO

AGENT OR

WORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SONE

Three dependenta: . wife and two children

RELAPIUNSNIP

SECTION INI

20. RESERVE

MILITARY

STATUS

21. VETERAN

12 2.

RETIAED.

World War II

service dionhilley

INDICATE CATEGORY (LONgONiRY, COMBAT diANDEI

SERVICE

пол-comba!)

24.

PAAR ON GRADE

USA and USAF

ELIGITiE

UHAFT DEFERMENT OSTAINED

To 10

SECTION IV

BASIC BALARY

28, POST DIAFERENTIAL

$6,390.00

COMPENSATION

28. COVER (Breakdoon, 18 any)

TAXES TO DE BITANELO BY

COVER

SECTION Y

ALLOMANCES ( NORMALLY.

QUARTIAS

Tron

32. POST

GRANTED ONLY TO RESIDEVIS OF THE

UNITED

82,4,00.00

•(taxabilo)

3Д.

COYER

(Braahcorn, 1f any)

Equalization Allowance - 82, 620.00 (non-taxablo)

NA

SECTIGN

VI

TRAVEL

гDыдC

ä8.

HOUSEMOLO EFFECTS TO BE SHIPPED

40.

$27 vis

TRANSPORTEO VEMICLE TR DE USED TOR

XX 118

WITH DEPENDENTS STATE RELATIONSHIP.

Wife - Costa Rican (expects

obtain U.S, citizenship in noar future)

Born 15 Narch 1918 - 38 years of

age. Parried to Subject since 1945

L7.0

Son - U.S. Cltizen, Y years of age.

Daughter • U.S. Citizen, 5 years of age.

#I. PATUENT AND ACCOUNTAI

ILITY WILL SE IN CONFORMANCE WITH

DO CHA RIGULAPIORS

SECTION VII

A 8.

PURCHASE OF INFORMATION

64744'

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

EMTERTATAMERT

d d.

OTHER

ROCEDUORS

Narral operational excerses ae piot

---

## Page 134

SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATI

AND CHECK LIST

(CONTINUED)

SEE POSTELITI MS ON SIFI? SYSET.

4=.

Janes

B. Noland

TELEPHONE LATENSION

2971,

2056

OTMER ESNTITS

FundRedulsteons.or

WH/III

30. January 1957

intedories of inadedit pritsarol.

resulations los benefici applerable lo vordous

R. 19-230 0g

w'Ussing Persons

CIA Sick and Annial Leave

• Hone Leave Travel

- Portodie Step Increases & amy pedea cools ling ess

digibilit in mousne

SECTION.

1X

STATUS

210°: 315

i69ock)

Xlison:

** COVER

PAYMENTS ARE CIEN;

COVER ACTIVITY

TYPE

(CARIA)

TNEY BILL

x

TOURIS!

PUERS

#FECTED ON RCIMBURSAULE BAST:

COMPLETE

50.

¿ASSET OF INCOME AND OTHER IMLIA

attorted torero. y

SECTION NI

OFFSET OF INCONE

ATS DERIVEO FROM COVER

ACTINÍTIES

118

loss than topal, juarily in asparato mono

Pae?lal.

HOHI

TERS

purric Indetinite

TEAVIRATIDN NOTICE (PURDER DE JOYS)

Ninety Days

EFFECTIVE DATE

93. RENTAULE

Immediato

3S. FOHFEITURE OF METURN TRAVEL

FOR RESIGNATIDN PAION TO CONTACT TERMINATION

SECTION

FUNCTION

5€.

STIMARY

FUNCTION SEE.

p5. 6880r)

FI Operations

X11.1

DUTIES

SEVERAL DESCRIPTINE DE DUTIES TO DE PERFORMED

Principal agent engaged in collection of positive intelligence and CE information.

SECTICA XIV

SO. ERICRIENCE

QUALIFICATIONS

Away and Air Force Intelligence.

CIA Fratning. Other as Indicatod In lumber ó, stove.

39. LINATION

X

600SA X:H001

pained

#RAGUAGE COMPETENCY

1:c.i1il (to degroe)

LASS. * SE

Appropriaro

Defer Coupaloncy

Snazish

IX ENLIEGE DEGATO

#R I,TE

PLeASE TOO POURE AVERAG

LeMO

INDIVIDUAL'S

2x12961 POSS

X

U.Sah.

ATE A AMOMLEDGE

Very good.

SECTION XY

PRIOR EMPLOYMENT

$ 9.

5:B AUO SALARY PAIOR TO SEROICE

19;C-1945:

T/Sgt, Lsd, isai, Intelligence Noo.

Ja=, 1945 - April 196:

Leading man labor, $12.88 per day, US Naval Air Station, Coco Solo,

Canal Zone

Azil 1946

- A:ril 1929: I/Sgt USAF,

Intelligence NCO, Albrook Field, Canal Zone

Aril 1949 - Present: Contact agent.

SECTION IVI

ACDITIONAL INFORMATION

S4: ADRAFIONAL OR UNUSUDi RES IREMENTS. JUSTIRICATIONS OR RAPIaMOTIONS lUDe offer sido, if Deçooner

PASSIOT AND ACCONACABILITE B'IL HE

IN CONFORMANCE WITH

#::+09801091099

SECTED VIL

PEESE Of INFORANTICN

"me prin

APPROVAL

турІ ддднЕ.

---

## Page 135

14-00000

(Continued)

Surrent 00 poet

contract agent (principal agent) AMPHODARCH Projeot,

---

## Page 136

14-00000

Terrie

Mr. sire

SE"r

Dear Ma

Reference le mado to your contrace with the United Stalge Government.

as represented by the Contracting Officer, effoctive 1 August 1954, ae

'emended.

Elloctive 14 May 1957, sald contract, so amended, lo further amendod

by deletiag in its ontirety Paragraph 1(b) and substituting in lou thereaf

the following:

"I(b) Additional compensation calculated at the sate of

$51J5 por annun. "

All othor terma and conditions of the original contract, an amended,

romain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Contracking Officer

APPROVED:

---

## Page 137

14-00000

CSO0ST

20 June 1957

MEMORUEDUM YOR: Chief, Contraot Fervonnel Divielon

SUBJFCT I

Men (1o.)

Subjact's contraat, dated 1 August 1951 ma amended to provide him

with an additional compenastion to covor quartors allowance for hie tanily

1n Costa Rica fron 21 February 1957, when ho and his farily vere orerod

to leavo labna for operational snourity reasons; ani to covor tie period

Subject was on TDY for training purposon at Hedguarters.

Bubieot returned to llabana with hia vifo

on 18 May 1957, to resume

bie dutlos as frinoipal Agent of Project AMlICACli. lia ohildren joined

him in Habana from Costa Rica on 21 May 1957.

It le requastod that subinatio invana allomnees, so get rorth in

his contrct dated 1 August 1954, and subsequently amended, be roinstnted

for the poriod lu, to 31 May 195%:

Hin now contract converting him to Career

Agent statuo ma effective on 1 June 1957.

• :

J. G. XINQ

Chief, Western Fiendsphere Divinion

SISTEN

---

## Page 138

'dinner:

Mr. Angi

Dear Assist

Roforence la made to your contract with the United States Governmen!.

an reprodented by tho Contracting Oficer, effecilse l Auguet 1954, 88

amonded.

Effectivo

_, said contract, as amended, la

•Hurtbor anended by tho addison of sub-paragraph (e) to paragrapa three (3)

lenticiod 'Iravol'' which reade as follows:

"(o) For tomporary storago of your household effecta while

you are temporarily abneat from your initial permanent poor of duty

hareunder.

Efloctavo 19 Fabruary 1957, aald contract is further amended by deleting

paragraph one (l) anillled Compensation du ila entiraty and subetituting in

Hou thoroof the followlag:

"1. Compensation. La full cunalderaticu for tha purchade of cortala

Information and services, you will raceiva from the coverament, payrolo

In ouch an approved rainer as you nity dirace in writing, the following:

(a) Componsation calculated as the rase di $5915 per annum; and

(b) Additional compersation for quarters procurement at San

Jose, ollectivo upos your arrival theroas in ai amount calcuiarad at

tho rato of $3000 por annum: A thie addicional compensation la baued

upor quartors costs al salu poui, it le aubjace to unilateral adjustment

Dy the Government wherevor warranted by a chango in tie factors

allecting ito initial ostabliahmont.. Quarters will not be furaisbed. you

by sno Government oor wiil you accopt quarters provided by your cover

lacility without prior amendment of tale agreeniau:.

All othor torma and conditione o! the contract, as amended, remain in.

ful! force and alfect.

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Contracting Officer

APPROVO:

---

## Page 139

14-00000

SECRET

18 Apr11 1957

ME CRANDUS FCR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJDCT :

1.

Amazing 19994, Contract Arent, 2-10, assigned to Project

A:Tonano in hamans, Cuba, was ordered by

the station to lenve Cuba

for reasons of operational

securlty following the killing of an indige

noug member (A:PTiOhARCH-1) of his agent net by the Cuban authorities.

Subject departed fraz liabana on 18 february 1957, and arrived in San

Jose, Costa Rica, en or about 21 Februnry

lie discontinued his

residence in labark, stored his household eifects, and set up new quar

ters in San Jose for his family. He will maintain these quarters

until about 6 lay 1357, when he will ho renssigned to Habang or FCS

to another area.

Subject, hingelf, is currently receiving training

at Headquartors.

It is requested that authorization be granted to pay Subject

quarters allowance to ensble hin to mintain residence for his family

In Costa Rica for the tine necessary to complete his training at Hea¿-

quarters and be reassigned to the field.

Quaren

Chief, lesters lie-isphere Division

1 2056

---

## Page 140

MECRAMDUM FLA: Chief, Finance Division

contract firsonnil Division

SUBJECT:

.. Contract extansion for

1. Effective 1 Auguar 1956.

th: contract (as amendud)

for thi subjuce individual, alfective lausuarlesa

• is

xinded so a portad a one (least.

2. All other lerins and conditions of the contrac. (as amended)

renain in full force and afact.

UNITED STATES CE AMÉTICA

BY

Contracting Cificer

APPICVED:

S

---

## Page 141

14-00000

23 July 1956

MEMCRANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division

VIA

SUBJECT

: FI/Plana

of contract

It la hereby requested that the contract of nee

marlbs, which expires on 31 July 1956, be extendod for a period

of one year. No changes in the present

contract, as amanded,

arè contemplated.

inion continues to serve as principal agent for the

AYPHODARCH Project, and his performance has been outstanding.

He has proved to be particularly adept at spotting and recruiting

of agenta.

He

was promoted to the equivalent of a Gs-10,

elfoctira 1 April 1956.

John T. Ilyin

for F. Po HOLOCAT, AC/AHO

SEGRET,

---

## Page 142

farrie i Dinines

Mr. 1997949476089

Date:

Dear N

Roference le made to your contract with the United States Government,

as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 August 1954, au

amended.

Effoctivs I April 1956, sald contract, as amendod, lo further amended

as follows:

1a no deare sobo in tha dras ordence of paragraph 180)

la incroased to $5915.

(8) The ligure $2575 in the lirat sentenco of paragraph 1(b)

18 Increased to $2960.

(e) The ligure $1920 in the firat sentence of paragraph 1(c) •

la lacreadsd to $2175.

All other terma and conditiona of the contraci, as ameaded, semain

in full force and olfect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Gificer

APPROVER:

HW145G

1936

107/ 14

Amitedance

Paris 0619-2353.

C17

---

## Page 143

14-00000

SECRET

3 ay 1956

mCaDa. 302: Contrast Personnel Sirision

: Fi/Plans/ Projects

: Contract Amendrent,

It is requested that the contract of mitia

zenied to crovide

bearints are i duty with us organzation on a June 19i9

Free dune 1949 through surust 1953 he was

stacioned in Costa Rica, were his record was outsmading and included

nie suesessoul nandling or a nign leve: Jomunict Farty genetration.

Se ass subsequently given deadquarters truining for several months

and participated in Fasuccess.

3.

has been in Cuba in his present capacity (p/A,

taozaas aroject) siace July 195k.

His porformance there has

tinaud to se cutstading.

do las proved io be particularly adept at

spothing and recruiting of agonts and nis work nas been highly praised

5o tire

Guiet

of. Station, dabana.

In rescending renewal of the

MEc2i0E project recently, FI/Plans/Arojects

stated, with reference

that te "nas soviously been a valnable,

deep cover

handler turing six years or servico for it."

anericusir as the most caluable agent co the sar jose Station.

L.

"ero are sutricient funds in the 1. ra60 Ron cocject approved

13 Seconder 1955 for the criod 1 August 1955 through 31 duly 1950) to

appride to the above-roguested increase in salary.

Such an increase

will be soesifically prorided for in the next project renewal request.

TiMiDA cas been at his present salury latel

since July 1951.

Comances

C. KING

Chier,

western comisphere Division

SECRET

2. 1 2916

---

## Page 144

14-00000

Solite d

5ile 13C

Gin 2100

- 1650

506i

50 6

7.5 5 4

24C6

215÷

43 08 9

5uto

3750

881

792%

24: 6

5527

797.58

4517÷8

75176

$565.52

$30.80

15÷1

505%

33 83

***-

1736.11

43c -

7070÷8

5-1552

22

27256*

4331k4

-...

177648044

114.45

1576.48

Jacte

$if.5..68

---

## Page 145

the -

Dato:

Dear

Reference la made so your contract with the United Staten Governmont.

as rapresented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 Auguir 1954, aa

amended.

Elfective & January 1956, sald contract, an amendod, la further

amended by deleting paragrapha one. (1) and two (2) and all relerence to

Federal taxes and substituting in llou thered the following:

do Compensation, In full consideration for the purchase of certaia

laformation and servicoa, you will rocelve from the Governmont, payabio in

such an approved mannor al you may direct in wriling. tha following:

(s) Compensation calculated at the rate of $5060 per anum; and

(D) Additional compensation for quartors procurement for you

and your dependenta presently calculated at tbe rate of $2575 pes annum

and applicable ouly lo your initial pormanen: post of assigament ovote

seãs, As thio additional compensation in basod upon quartora costa

• at said post. il le aubject to unilateral adjustment by the Goveramont

whenever warranted by a change in the factora allecting its initial

outablichmast. Quarters will not be furnished you by the Governmen:

nor will you accept quarters provided by your cover factlity without

prior amendment of this agreement; and

(c) Additional compeneation for cost of living expenses (other

than quarters) for you and your dependents presently calculated al

the rate of $1920 par annum and applicable only to your initial per

manent post of assignment ovarseas. As this additional compeneation

Is predicated upon the comparativo cost of living between Washington,

D.C. and your overseas pust, your cover, lamily status and baeic

compensation, it ia subject to unilateral adjustment by the Goverament

whenever warranted by a change in the factors allacting lis original

establishment

2. Taxes.

da your logal relationship to the Government Is that.

of an independent contractor, all amounts paid directly or guaranteed by the

Coverament under Paragraph one supra, are reportable as Income under

existing Federal income lax lawa and regulations.

Goraramont agrees, at your request, to withhold Federal income larea from

tbe toontes due you undor this agreement in an amount equivalent to the United

Statea income tas withholding schedule based upon your larable lucome here-

undar and

_ present exemption(s). Sums so withheld will be paid over to

---

## Page 146

Phs Internal Revenue Service. You ncknowlodge that this la an sccommodation

on the part of the Goverament and dos not release you from fulfilling your

obligations under existing Federal income far lawe and regulations. You wull

be instructed an to ths mithod to be followed in making timely fling of returns.

ootimates and paymente in order to presern security.

All other terme and conditions of the contract, as amended, remala

In full forco and ellect.

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the apace provided

below.

UNTIED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

WITNESS!

APPROVED:

---

## Page 147

14-00000

SECRET

Heroes C. Priorage

Mr.

Dear Mr: C

Reference do made to your contract (assonadad) effective

1 Аодивь 1954

with the United States Government, as

represented by the Contracting Cfficer, for the (purchase) baube.

sof information and services of a confidential nature.

Effectiva & January 1955, said contraci (amanhar) is

(sweard amended by deleting thercin all refirence lo your pay-

nont of Federal taxes and substituting in livu thereof the following:

"Whilo it is recognized that you are an independent contractor,

the Government at your request and in view of security consid-

crations involved agrees to withhold from the monthly taxable

income due you under this contract which is payable on and after

*January 1955 amounts equivalent to the Unitod States income

tax withholding schidule based upon

le."

present

-semption(s). Sums so wiihhold will bi paid over to the

Inturnal Revenue Survice. You acknowledge that this is an

accommodation on the part of the Government and dous not

relieve you from fulfilling your obligations undor existing

Federal income tax law, and regulations.

You will bu

instructed as to the muthod to bu followed in making timuly

filing of returns, ustimates and paymonts in ordur to pre-

surve security."

All other terms and condition; of the contract (man

remain in full force and effuct.

You will please indicale your approval by signing in the space.

provided bolow.

UNITED STATES CE AMEFICA

RY

Contracting Öificer

ACCEPTED:

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

SACRET

---

## Page 148

14-00000

#PARANO 59

.. pinte

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

• SCO (Miller)

DATE 2Y July 1954

FROM & Special Support taff, Felical Office

SUBJECT:

Subject has

been evaluated by the redical Office and found

physically qualified for full duties (sumeral).

Amanistortivo Officar

NO/BJC:mjs

Distribution:

Ori,. - Adiressee

1

- i?/3

- File

NET

---

## Page 149

Date:

Mr.

Dea:

wendica

Roference la made to your contract, as amended, effective l September

1953 with the United States Government, sa represented by the Central

Intelligence Agency, for the purchase of Information and services of a confi-

dential nature.

Effective 31 July 1954, sald contract is hereby terminated by mutual

content of the parties thereto and in lieu thereof the following contract lo

substituted:

The United States Govornment, as repremented by the Central Intelligence

Agency, hereby contracts with you for the purchase of certain information

and related services of a confidentlal nature under the following terms and

conditions:

Componsation. In full considuration for the purchase of auch infor-

mation and services, you will be paid an amount calculaind al the rate of

$5060.00 per annum:

Paymente will be made as directed by you in wrlting

in a manner acceptable to CIA. No taxed will be withheld from tale amount,

but is relit me jon cooponolallay io nopon: such income under existing Federa!

Income tax laws and regulatione.

2. Allowances.

Effective upon your arrival at your permanent pout

of duty overseas, you will be entitled to: (a) A Quarters allowance equivalent

to lhat granted a GS-9 Government employee stationed al the same permanent

poet of duty.

Thia allowance will be at the maximum ritea prescribed in

the Standardized Regulallona (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas). No

accounting for thie allowance wil! be required by CIA. In the event that

Quarters aro provided by your cover facility, you will not be entitled to the

Quarters allowance hereln Indicated.

(b) Coat of living allowances i

conformance with the Standardled Regulationa (Government Civilians,

Forelgn Areas).

3.

Travel. You will be advanced or reimburded lunde for the follow

ing cravel and transportation expenseo:

(a) For you from Washlngion, D. C. to your permanent post of duty

overseas.

(b) for your dependents and your household affects from your old to

your new permanent post of duty overseas.

(c) For you alone for authorised travel within your operatlonal area.

(d) For you, your dependents and your household affecta from your

permanent post of duty overseas to your place of recorded reaidence

upon the sarlafactory completon of the terma of thie contrace or any

renewal thereof.

---

## Page 150

You will antitled lo per diem in lieu of subsidience in the courde of auch travel.

All travol, tranoporiallon and per. dier: provided for under thie paragraph muat

be properly aulhorizod, and aspendes incurred borounder are oubject to payo

ment and accounting In compliance with ClA regulatione.

* Oporational Expensed. You will be adranced or poimburded funds sor

necessary operational espondes including, bus so: lirised to, cuttion, Booka,

, entortalnment and the purchase of information sa specifically approved by

CIA.

Such funds will be

subject to accounting is substantial compliance with CLA

regulations.

5. Beneflis: (a). You will be entitled to death and disabllity benofits

equal to those authorised under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, an

amended. . Claims by you, jour heira, or legai representatives under thie

paragraph will be proceedod by ClA In accordance with its procedures in such

manner as no: to impair security.

(b). You will be entitled forcourinuance of pay and allow-

ances In a manner similar to that set forth in the Missing Perdone Act

(50 U.S. C. A.. App. 1001-1015).

(c) You will be entitled to fourteen (14) calendar days

leave per contraci year. Such leave may be accrued during the termot thie

contract or any renewal hereof but paymun: in lios of unused leave will not

be authorised. Such lezve may only be taken al tiries and places approved ir

advance by appropriate representatives of CIA.

6.

Cover. It lo anticipated that you will undertako certain cover employi

ment in the course of your purformanço under thia agreement. It la expresaly

understood and agreed lhat any and all documents which joù indy enouio in

the course of such cover employment ars subordinsie to thie agreement and

any contradiction in terme which may in any way amplisy, extend or resirict

your rights and/or obligationo hareunder ahall be resolved by this agreement

which shall always be dominant.

7. Odiset. Any suma or aubatantially similar besefico or allowances

recelvad from your cover facility (lf you use the G.I. Bill of Righis any

allowances recelved by you under said bill except tuition payments) will be

used to offeet thone due under this contract by the Government. Sume,

similar benefits or allowances thus recelved are acknowledged and agreed

to be payment by the Government within the provisions of this contract. You

will report all sume or subatantially similar benefiis coceived at least every

81x (6) monthis during the term of this contract.

8. Execution of Documents: Il, In the periormance of your cover bor-

vice, you assume the custody of government funds or taka title of record

to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situite, which property

has in fact been purchased with monles of the V.S, Government, you hereby

recognize and acknowledgo the extatence of a trusi relationship, alther

expreas or conatructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may

be requirad by ClA to evidence this relationship.

%

Status. You are not an employae of the United Stares Government

under this agreement and are not entitled io any benefita normally incident

to an employes atatus, except so specifically enumersied herein.

10. Secrecy. You will bo required to keep foraver decret thie comraci

and all information which you may obtair: by readon heredi (unlesa released

In wrizlag by ClA from such obligation), with full krowledge that violation

---

## Page 151

i wish!

•of such secracy may subjact you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage

Lawo, daled 25 Juno 1918, as amended, and other applicable lawa and rogula-

tions.

11, Inotructiono. Instructions rocelved by you from CIA In briefing,

trainine ee phonige trun f7r6 ci lala rostract and are incorporated hereln,

proidded thai such inotructiona are not Inconsistent with the terme hereal.

12. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commlimento pertaloo.

Ing to righto, privileged or benefite other than those expressly stipulated in

wring in thio agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the

Government

13.. Term.

This contract Is effective an of l Auguer 1954 and ehall

'continue bereafter for a perlod of two (2) years unleas sooner terminated by

CIA either:

(a) By thirty (30) days' actual notice to you from ClA, or

(b) Without prlos notice, in the event of a breach of this contract by

your volation of the securlty provialons hereof or by your other-

wise rendering yoursell unavallable for acceptable service.

Subject to the avallability of appropriations, this agreoment may be renewed

for successive parlode of one year each upon notice from ClA accapted by you.

• In tho evant of voluntary termination for cause by ClA prlor to expiration of

thia agreement of any renowal thereof, you will not be entitled to seturn travel

expenses to the Untied States:

Termination of thie agreement will not solenco

jui runs ino ubiigationa vi any security vas you may be roguired lo take.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY

Speclal Contracting Olficer

ACCEPTED:

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

(.1).

---

## Page 152

14-00000

Date:

N:8.

Dear

Not

Reference la mude io your cortract effective l Supiember 1953 wilh

the United States Goverrment, as represented by the Central Inielligence

Agency, for the purchame of information and services of a confidential nalure.

Effective Il December 1953 said contract le amended by adding te

following paragraphs to said contract:

•11. Benofits, (a) You will be entitled to death and dioability

sanelits equal to chose auchorized under the Federal Employees!

Cumpensation Act, as amended. Claima by you, your heirs,

or logal representatives under lais paragraph will be grocessed

by. CIA in accordance with ite procedures in such manner as not

to impala security.

"(b) You will be enticled to continuance of pay and

allowances in a manner almilar to tbat det forth in

she wissing

Persons Aci (50 U.S. C.A.. App. 8001-1015). "

All other terma and conditlons al the contrace romain in full force

and effect.

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the space pro-

vided bolow.

UNITED SIATES OF AMERICA

Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

APPAOVED:

MLE/pr

1l Dec 53

C. A.

Patien

---

## Page 153

14-00000

CA

TiT

specied contracting Ofticer

FE/sAgent cervice section

5 March 1951

1. Forwaried herewith is a copy of a remorandor received

In this

office frou WH lIvision which reflects that the subject

Is atiercing school under the GI blll.

In light of the Veterana Maninistration regulations

re, aring er titleent to allowance berefits uncer thia bill,

It aproars that the orioet clauso of Cuifect's contract should

be pended to reflect that ary sura receivid (excopting tu tion

parmerts) due to his stucert cover are to be offset fron comper.

Bation and allowuncer due under the terns of his contract.

Chief/Agont Service Scotion

ATTACKS'I-I

ce: fero cated 26 Feb. 1954

• :

FD/Osa/gent Service Section/03K/is

---

## Page 154

TEN AS

SECRET

Date:

Mr.

Deati

Referesce la made to your contrace effective l September 1953 wita the

Unitod States Government, as represested by the Contracting Cilicer, for the

purchase of information and servicea of a confidential naturo.

Ellective I September 1953, said costract is amended by deleting paragraph

7 entitled "Offoet' in: lie ertirely and substituting in lies thereof the following:

"%. Clisel. Any sums or substantially similar benefits or allow-

ances received from your commercial cover and any allowances

received by yo: under the G! Dill al Righte except tuition paymenta

will be used to offset those due under this confract by the Governo

ment. Sume, sircilar benefits or allowances thaa received are

acknowledged and agreed to be pajayant by the Government within

the provisions of thia contract. You will report all sums o:

• substantially similar benefits receired at least evory slic (6)

mantas during the term of this con:raet."

All other terms and conditions of the coatract remain in full force and

oileci.

You will please indicate your approval by eigning in the space provided

below.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY

Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

APPROVED:

o. 0/4(23714104)

POSUCCESS/WN/FIPP

Co-sobbine x2600

---

## Page 155

14-00000

ВУ АВИЛАТЬ PEЗER0, 10. BE

SES

duis

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

:

special Contracting Officer

DATB: 5 March 195%

FROM

FD/Cla/hgert Servico Sectión

SUDJECT:

1. Forwarded herewith is a copy of a memorandum recalved

in thie office from WH Division which

reflects that the Subject

1B atterding school under the GI bill.

In light of the Veterana Administration regulations

regarding ertitlement to allowance berefits under this bill,

it appears that the offset clause of Subject's contract should

be ämended to reflect that any suns received (excepting tuition

paymerts) due to his student cover are to be offset from compen-

sation and allowances due under the terms of his contract.

Chief/Agent Service Section

ATTACID IT -1

cc: Meno dated. 26 Feb. 1954

---

## Page 156

14-00000

26 Fobruary 1954

SuBJECT

REFERESCR

I1soussion between "re Hanke and Mr. 1aine

on 26 Feb 54.

Io Contract agent Arthur G. 'AIVANA, a veteran of Horld lar

II, 15 presently under an official dover for WH during which he 1e

attending school under his GI benofite.

2. It is ruquested that your office inform Wi, and tho

Contraot Diviaion If necessary, as to the nocossity of deduoting

his Of allovances (but not tuition paymenta) from hia salary paid

by CIA.

3o Further questlons concernin this request should be

directed to Mr. Ssterline of liT. Hanke (x3581).

Jo Co XING

CWH

---

## Page 157

14-00000*

13315

C-1240 (Youngblood)

5 January 1953

Chin fa

Special Contruoting Allowanges

and Processing Staff

Chief, 8I/Plana/Corer

MPA and PICA Protection for Vinount C. PIVALI (p)

Lo. Cover Division approves MPA and FicA protuction for

Vincent C. PIVALL (p) since a lojical olan for channeling any

proceede to hia bon-ficiaries has been agreed upon.

2. We are not in a position at thia time to approva such

protection for Arthur 0. VAIVADA under Project PESUCCESS, 81n0e

1t jo our undoratanding he is not presently oporating under

that project and so cover plan has beon deviced for hin as yet.

3. Cover Division approval will to continent upon the

cover plan developed and the feasibility of socure chaneling

os possibla procede te tarains benerlolarteea....

Firemais

---

## Page 158

14-00000

c.f.

Date:

Mo.

Dear.

¿éfarence la made lo your contract effuctice 1 June 1949 wich the

United States Government for the purchase of Informition and serviceo of a

confidential nature.

Effectiva 31 August 1953 aald contract in hereby terminated by mutual:

consent of the partea therein and in lieu thereof the following contrace is sub-

stituted:

The Malted States Gorernment, do representod by the Central Intelli. 1

gence lgency, heroby contracte with you for the purchage of certain informa

sion and related services of a confidential nature under the following terme and

conditiona:

Compensation, In full conalderation for the purchase of auch infor

mation and servicco, you will be pild an arount calculated at the rate of $4200

per annum. Payments will be made as directed by you in wrlting in a manner

acceptable to CIA. No taxes will be withheld from this amount, and lt will be

your resporsibility to report such Income under exinting Federal Income tax

lawo and regulatione.

Elfecrive upon your arrival at your permanent post of

duty overseas, you will be entitled to a Cuarters allowance equivalent to that

granted a GS-7 Government employee atationed a: the same permanent post of

This allowance will be at the maximum rates prescribed in the Standard-

ined Regulations (Onvernment Civillans, Foroign Aread), No accounting for

this allowance will be required by CIA.

In the event that quartera are provided

by your cover company, you will not be entitled to the juarters allowance here-

in indicated.

3.

Travel: You will be advanced.or reimbursed funds for travel and

transportation expenses for you, your dependents and your household effecte

co and from your permarent post of duty persona arri for you alone for author-

Ixed travel within your operational area. You will be entitled to per diem in

leu of ouhsistence during euch tracel and while in training in the United States.

All travel, tranoportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph muot

be properly authorized, and expenses incurred herrunder are aubject to pay-

ment and accounting in compliance wth ClA regulationa.

Operational Expenses.

In addition is the allowance indicated above,

you will be advanced of reimbursed fundo for naceasary operational expensea

including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information as

specifically approved by Cl.4.

such fundo will be subject to accounting in sub'-

stantial compliance with ClA regulations.

5. Leavo. You will be entirled to fourteen (14) calendar days' leave

per contract year.

Such leave may be accrued during the term of this contract

or any renewal hereof but payment in lieu of unused leave will not be authorised.

Such leave may only be taken at times and places approved in advance by

appropriate representativee of ClA.

6. Cover.

It is anticipated that you will undertake certain cover

employment in the course of your performance under this agreement. It la

expresaly understood and agroed that any and all documenta which you may

execute in the course of such cover employment are subordinate to thia agree

ment and any contradiction in terms which may in any way amplity, extend or

restrict your righte and/or oblipatione hereunder shall be resolved bythis

agreement which ohal! always be dominant:

---

## Page 159

14-00006

Any suns or substantially similar benefita or allowancee

roceived from your commorcial cover as differentialed from your. atudent

cover will be used to oliner those due under thie contract by ClA.

Suno, similar

benefies or allowancod thus received through your commercial cover are acknow-

ledged and agreed to be payment by ClA within the provisions of this contract.

You will report all aune or subatantially similar benefite raceived from sald

commercial cover a: least every six months during the term of this contrace.

8.

vice, you assume the custody of government funda or take title of record to

property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has

in fact been purchaded with monies of the U.S. Gevernment, you hereby recog-

nise and acknowledge the exiatence of a trust relationahip, elther express or

constructive, and you agrea to execute whatever documents may be required

• by. Cli to avidence thia relstionahip.

9. Status.

You are not an employee of the Unlted States Government

under thia agreement and are not entitled to any benefite normally Incident

to an omployee atatus.

10.

Secrecy: You will be required to keep forever secret tula con-

tract and all Informurlon which you may obtain by reason hereof (unlesa roleased

In writing by CIA from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of

such secrecy may subjeci you to criminal prosecutor under the espionage lawa

dated 25 June 1913, as amended, and other applicable lawe and regulations.

11.

Instructione. Indiructions recelved by you from CIA is briofing or!

training aro a port of thie contraci and are Incorporated herein, provided chat

euch instructiona are not inconsietent with the ¿orms hereof.

12. Unzuthorizod Commitments. No promises or commitmenta

portals:

Ing to rights, privileges or benefita other than those expredely stipulated in

writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding ou tho

Government.

13. Torm. Tale contract is effacilie as el l Sepiember 1953, and

shall continue therualter for a period of two (2) years unless soonor terminated

by CIA either

(3). By thirty (30) daya' actual notice to you from ClA, or

(b) Without prlor notice, in the event of a breach of this contrast

by your violation oi the security provisions hereof or by your

otherwise rendering yoursel unavailable for acceptable service.

Subjece to the availabilicy oi appropriatione, this agreemen; may be renewed

for succossive periods of one yea: cach upon notice from ClA accepied by you.

In the event of voluntary termination on your part or iarminailon for cause

by Cla prior to expiration of thia agreement or any renewal thereof, you will

nol be entliled to return travel expenses to the United jidles. Termination of

thie agreement will not release you from the obligatione of any security oath

you may be required io take.

ACCEPTED:

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY

Special Contracting Officer

DHL/pr

8 Sept 53

APPROVED:

---

## Page 160

14-00000

SECRET

" SECURITY INFORMATION

COVERT PERSONNEL SERVICES FORM

JOB SUMMARY

Harris Poemaigh

Pseudonym minerat

Dlv161on - Il/III

Project -

AUKHUDAICH

Case Officor He he Malcol

Date

22 dirty 195

(Il this Information is contained in an approved Project, thie

form need not be completed.)

I. Duties: (General Description of the Duties to be performed)

Penetration of the Cuban Carmulat Party and Conmunist fronte

at the University of Havanao

II. Qualificationa: (Indicate qualifications applicable to assigned duties)

'a. Experience: Your years experience as a contract Agent in WID

• b. Education: (Check) High School -

College Post Graduate-

c. Language: English and Spanish - Fluent

d: Other:

III. Present job and salary:

Fomarly received 3i205 plua allovances. This 19 to be raised to

$5060 por annua plus allowances under new contract.

IV.

Cover Activity: PROPOSED ESTABLISHED (Cross out one). Give general

description,

1.e., Proprietary, Subsidized, Cultural, Educational,

Commercial, Nominal, Military, etc.

Subject was under student cover in previous project. Thia cover

will

be continued in the new projeot

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

SIGNATURE OF PROJECT OFFICER

WHD/IrI

FORM NO.

FES 195g 39-494

141.

---

## Page 161

14-00000

SECRET

SMATICE

Case

otricer

Division-

WHID

Tel. Ext: 2555

Date 22 Julr 7954

CONTRACT INFORYATION AND CHECK LIST

I. General

Harried irond.

Pseudonym _pariane

Prodes: 8821221866c. Allot. No. 3577-211

D. Previous CIA Freudenyma or clinger

Category (Contract Enployee, Contract Agest, etc.) _ Contract Agent

Is individual presently erassed or has he era- been engaged by CIA cr its

allied activities in any spacisy? Yea Jessrite_Contraat Agent since ISi9

G.

Security Clearance:

Type baerational

Tie Haha: 125507 21 duly 1954

H. Permanent Post (City and Courtry) _ ilavana, inba

A. Citizenship_ U.Sa

C. Military Status F-toran

D. Legal Residence (City and Country)

Siertinia Illinoia

E.. Current Residence (City and Stste)

Has inite Dela

Previous Years of Government Service (Militery and Civilian) _ ovar 12 Jear

G. Has a draft deferment been cotained by CIA?_ ime nanded

I11. Co pensation

Basic

B. Additional (Post Difforential)

Profit partleipation.or bonus

D. Total

CIA

$

COVER

5050,00

$

$

IV. Allowancos: (Normally granted enly to residents ca the United

Stutes)

A. Llving - Quarters

B. Cost-of-Living

C. Other

D. Total

E. Basis (2):

5060.00

CIA

$

1800

89 87 17

(2)

COVER

$

$

+717.

1:50

150 (ransfer)

(3)

Payments

What portion of compenention and/or allowances will be paid by cover? Nona

VI. Operational Expenses

Purchase of Intorration: -

B. Entertaizzent

C. Use of Personal Vehlule Basis

D. Other _Cover lix, enses (Untv.

Rition Books, orca) upora.

travel

With/Without Lapendenta B. Eousehold Erfects

_C. Personal Vehicle.

It' With Dependents, atate Reistionship, Citizeship and birthdate of children:

Two chil ron, both U.S. citizense.

1. - born in 1949 nu 1052 respectively.

Expenses will be pald by:

1. Per CIA Rege -

Sub. Cocrlisace

Preamportation to cuba for VAIVADA and Emaily

— 3. Other_

Miscellaneous Benefits

Death Benefits:

Per F.E.C.A.-

Missing Persons Act.

D. Life Insurance

• G. Sick Leave

. I. Rospitalization

= Creditable Service.

Rehabilitation Rights.

IX.

Term

A.

Duration (Days, months, years! _Eve years B. DYective Datel Aug 195%

C. Renewable:

Yes I NO-

Termination Notis (No. of days).

E. Forfeiture of return travel for resignation prize to Contract Term: Yes&ko_

X.. Will Individual take titlo to CIA property? Test to

XI. Will individual work under "cantrelled conditions", fue. set orfice hours,

superyision, etc? les_ Nol

XII. Additional or unusual requirements, Justificatic: = emplanations

---

## Page 162

Eyes Caly

Percanal. Info

---

