# 104-10180-10138

## Page 1

104-10180-10138

EMOM.

iND/SAB

$200 Minin. BIde.

ROOM

AC/TSD/TA

2.

3.

T3D/SR3

$.

WH/4/FJ

%.

•RI/DP

1308

L

9.

TSD/SRS

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

1%..,..

18.

COORDINATING

OFFICERS

MAME

BY FROND

OFFICE

Ralph Secharer

N8/4/51

ROUTINE AND A CORD SHEET

carE

RECENTS

CONNENTS

GFEICER"

PINORITY

-site

Coordinated by phone

83J9 tsu

1 t.

ECORD

ENCLOSURE

DATE NICRUFILAEO

PTAt

AESTRICT!!

INDEX

PRIORITY

AUTMENCATING OFFICER

TITLE

C/TSD/SAB

RELEASING

OfFAER

MAME

TITLE

AC/TSD/TA

FILE NUMBER

08

201

DOCUMENT DATE

HUMBER

HAST - 3523

1589979

1

i

---

## Page 2

--$:

mos

: Chier of statlon, lavara

9.0:2 ai.

301.

CHick, KURIOr

AQUATIC/Operational

Si Supplies atron l

2 3 JUN 192:

BE CECK ACHI

MARILY FOR INOL GIS

LY GUL 312 083697

: MAVA - 1339, 17 June 1050

do The s cupplies and instructions cected to establich tuc-ny 5w

correspondence with AlikEl ore trensulited herewith. be realize thot some ad

the instruction forms aul supplies which are being trancmitted are duplicates

of those sent to the Station in cupport of other operitions. lovever, la order

to t'acilitate the handling of coch operation. the gupplies

for ench are

furnished as a complete unlt.

This will preclude the need for borrowine fren

one ajent a supplies to outs it another.

99

2. AIRE) vill vrite to

"the Cuse O'ficer

8277

638

1438

A supply of the developer material, in quaatitles surficicat for

raining purposed, accorpenieu this dispatch.

3. According to tre Wil operational plan, sW westages written by will

v1ll be nulled to accornodation addresces in various latin Americar countries.

In accordarce with that, Kullot will provtde the approprinte

with the mterialo secessary for developing the operational messages.

AMiRa 1 will develop

The sW messaged he receives by means it 1s

i should be lasued

for that purpose.

recommended that the ogect le told to hide his developer matcriols in e nofe

This should not present much af n problen venuse

]He do not generally recommend tilat

Even ta cases where the Sw inuredtent

49

nad thus

there would be a denges of heving an unwitting forson

350 them by accident Off the Cuse Officer feels that for operational reason.

It lo desirable l

they should only be kept int

Jottle which is clearly muried

5. Accordine to tie operationil plau, tre Jare to cocnt I: Deccages wili

ve prepared for the fire divialon ly kalot et l'eudquarters.

The Area Divis'or

Tilla out one possessi

Field Station for

100 the corror-iate

12a111a0.

• ile Autoll Case O'Picer sivull Paulllorize hinselr with lihe

comanyiny cuballes und lustructioss before eny etterst 1s nade to trelo ani

Issue supplies to the agesi.

iperience has shorn that 1t 13 curisable to plan

tor tro or thrce chort (2 hour) igout truinin; scssions scheduled over e perind

of days, rather ten to sitempt to cris tle training leto ouc loue session.

It 13 2022l1y recocharied tiei the aguac use

?. Speclal attentiou should be sta to plaus the rover cortemonience.

his Su messares to the sectiois, thereuy

popletely

frog hle si reporte once, they cre in the tell chrinel, True requires trat the

corrempanience be fletical, uni entailo a certain count of abill on the pert

os Aliblin fabricatin: apareucly/

chat the use 08,9

Irrequently provides the agout vich

considerable payciolujies recournace during the course. of the operution.

3. The cover/

38C2 - 2523

CSE PIECES CRIPON.

Ned. 1184241:

AA2 81 8T

LI:CH ARN OSIOBATT

SACRET

PRIORITY

110: 3

(airy)

---

## Page 3

.. de tri

- 3523

Ic cover correspondence muss in so my appeso to be differint ficu

no ml: of aill cnilmilly lowd in the crool bine used.

It shorid coitnin

no lasrantien which could be pioved to suspicion in cry 47j.

The exteral

copiis of the contraconloice mat do tracid in all aspocta 1i° the si 18 to

be amoeted to provide liny level or security.

enitroly on the care

*ith which it Is used.

Flesse stress the nued for care

ral triting techniques

in your ajent trnisini sessiors.

the ising operation:

The follouire, supples did tastruction are; transeitted in support or

49

dor Marla Form

chich describos in detzil how lo

are so demonstrate ine pelaciples ga

Indeled!

Jis to be

Jailing. The developient

rrscess for this system con be carried out in the agent's presence.

Juhich will develop

the desoustrat tagg

a4 do Instruction

writing.

99

desertbing the development of the

• 19

The one labeled!

Is to be used in training end 1s

be retained by the Station.

are to be iscued to the agent.

149

The agent should not be allowed to

J49

Instruction

derelopment?

specific instructions for the

Ito be used so develoy practice and real

messages written

which he should use to practice his development technique.

Si sessages he, received. Two or three

in training a

M 1o lestruction

should be used

should be dasued to the

instructiors for the use of

%. One copy of the "Station Maintenance of Sli Supplies form.

04

1o Miscellancous items such as

steas generally usehul for Si processing.

1l. You vill note thet to different sinds of

submitted with the suppiter.

Ore de labeled

M This should

be used in the practice session only.

It should be used to demonstrate i

This system can be developed in the arent's

Anns beca labeled

coca teel de agents operation

Arcer the acent has mstered the use of the

Aphe should be

Given ce opportunity to vilte vith the l

Salt to very importent

that the Case Orficer have the chance to critique the arent's St' uritiod

techalque with the actual system which the scent will use.

flowever, the agent

should not/

3523

SHORET

---

## Page 4

99

Sita. 206 be allowed

should be enrried out at the Station.N If the Case OrTIce:

raintoo messnges written with the operationall

or he should just discuss 1t verbally.

99

12. The Station should retain the

and the rest of the supplies.

Plenae heir 1a mind that::

mescues and vorking materinle should be traied as classified.

Please do not hestrate to requent edditions help fron i

13°

needed.

Jai. Pointe

SCARTA: F. MARESTI:

99

.. Chuat the

i. that

Lied,

799.

arloped

1: 00

Enclosured: (1 Dox & 1 Erry)

Supplies & Instructions

2. Supplies

22 June 1960

Distribution:

3 - COS, Havana, u/encis o/8

X- RI, u/o enclo

• ISD / SA3, w/o encl

WIl/4/FI, No cucle

TSD/SAI

(2922) : gie

03

PeRH

1a8y 336

som

1Н РИТУОЗА ВИОРТО

BECRET

Er "

• 3523

Past hi

3 of 3

9/120

---

