io4t0440-10032,.

‘ We

THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, 0. C. 20505

Office of Legislative Counsel

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director
Select. Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Bob:

OLC 79-0113/T
26 March 1979

Forwarded herewith are detailed comments on the draft
report. on Manuel Ray Rivero. ‘The Grafting was such that it

has required extensive ed:
you will agree leaves the bas

security objections.

Page 2.

torial suggestion, which I believe
ic story in tact while meeting our

Lines 19-20. Delete "Raul Chibas", “Ramon Barquin".

Page 3. Lines 10-11. Substitute "in the process of becoming"
for "being recruited by. the CIA.in Cuba to become".

Page 3.
Page 3.
Page 3.

Page 3.
conflict".

Page 3.
Page 3.
Page 3.
Page 3.

Page 4.

Page 4.

Line 13. Substitute "U.S. government" for "CIA".

Line 13. Substitute "U.S. government" for "The Agency".

Line 14, Delete “clandestine”.

Line 16. Substitute "disagreement" for "internal

Line 17. “U.S. Government" for "CIA". "With" for "to".

Line 18. Delete "CIA".

Line 19. Delete "Agency".

Line 20. “one official" for "A CIA officer".

Lines 10-11. Delete after "philosophy" and up to "the
White House..." and add "in the FRD".

Second paragraph.

(no quotes) in February 1961.

joining...."

Ray was approved as a political asset
Then start new sentence, "He resisted


Page 6. "A recommendation was made that Ray be given an initial
$50,000 for operational expenses. Reaction in the U.S. Government was
immediate". -

Page 6. Third line. Delete "for" fourth line, delete "the Recor be
and "Miami Station's”.

Page 6. Second paragraph. Sixth line. Delete "in contact with
the CIA and was", and "by the Agency".

Page 6. Second paragraph. Ninth line. "U.S. Government”
for "CIA".

Page 7. Second paragraph. Second line. Substitute "U.S. Government"
for CIA.

Page 7. Second paragraph, second sentence. Delete "with the CIA"
and substitute "a" for "the" before "Cuban Ambassador". Delete rest of
sentence after "Cuban Ambassador".

Page 7. Second paragraph. Delete third sentence.

Page 7. Second paragraph. Eleventh line. Delete rest of
sentence after 1963. E

Page 7. Second paragraph. Delete last sentence.

Page 7. ‘Last paragraph. First ‘sentence to read as follows:
"In June 1963, the concept of ‘Autonomous Operations’ was inaugurated
under which JURE could bée...." Ge

Page 8. First paragraph. Replace "CIA" with "U.S. Government”
and "Agency" with "latter". :

Page 8. Second_paraarah. Last sentence.Substitute | Venezuelan
official" for/ Pea

Page 8. ‘hird_paragraph.. Substitute. "another area" for
Delete lafter "base". 7

Page 10. First paragraph. Third line. Delete "the CIA".

Page 10. First paragraph. Fifth line. Delete to "because"
on sixth line. Following sentence: "Because of the autonomous
nature of JURE no attempt was made to stop the investigation".

Page 10. First paragraph. Last sentence to read as follows:
"Ray was told to move all his operations outside U.S. texritory".

Page 10. ‘Third paragraph, second line. Delete "CIA".



Page 10. ‘Third paragraph. Last sentence. Delete "The Agency
authorized". Next Line. Delete “of $75,000" and insert "was made".

Footnotes
1. CIA Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/60.
8. CIA Memo 7/16/62.
9. CIA Report 3/16/61.
12. CIA Document 6/9/62.
13. CIA Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/60.
15. CIA Document.
21. CIA Report 10/17/60.
22. CIA Memo 9/27/60.
23. CIA Cable from MASH 9/29/60.
‘ : ~ 24, CIA Memorandum, 9/7/60.

26. CIA Cable to Director from MASH, 11/5/60.

27. CIA Cable to Director from JMASH, 11/11/60.

28. CIA Memo for Record, 11/21/60. .

29.- CIA Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/60.

30. CIA Nemo for Record, 6/2/61.

31. CIA Information Report, 12/22/60. He
32. CIA Memo 3/16/61.

33. CIA Cable from JMWAVE, 3/i/él.

34. CIA Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/60.

36. CIA administrative form.

38. CIA Memo for Record, 27 March 1961.

1B. CIA Nemo 6/2/61.

44, CIA Cable from JMWAVE, 4/29/61.

a
