# 104-10177-10020

## Page 1

104-10177-10020

ond

unit

3997

DATE A

27 AUGIST 1959

LET 39/00 TUS: 00RD

5l 9o Mis pos da dada

Has tond m

DEFERREO AUG 27

21

108551

#OUTINE

•C'O CABLE SEC!.

Nihal

CONt.

INºO &

C1, 61/OPS, F8, F1/RQ4 3, S/C 2

PHORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

CJT90344

1 то

• INFO

NOPORN/ CONTINUED CONTROL

FROMA

PARIA 1

- CUBA, RABATA

MICHOFILNED

2 3 1969

DOC. MIcio.

PARA. Z - PANAMA, PANMI CITY

MATT OF ITO:

10 & 24 AUGUST 1959

"BNCT

FILANCIAL TRATSACIICYS CY DOMINICK BARTONE

XAAZ=2891

C/wH

HIT°

1. A JATRIX RELIABLE SOURCE, HIO IS OPPOSED TO

-'CASTRO RUZ, PRONE MATSTER OF CUE, FAS REPOrTED

ON 10 AUGUST 1959 MAJOR

MISLAY ALSATOS TORAY IT HAT A GROUP Or TURNS

SPOSED TO CASTES READ

TY ITAL, FLORIDA. THE HITTING HAS LUZO AB THE HOO OF DONIC E.

1236 CHASE AVENUE, •IN'I HEACH.

L PENOT AT THE GRIN HERS NORARY ES (TV) 40

TIE MEETING PORCAN WAS GIVEL, 81L0, 000 IN CASH BI HRSTRE AND MEIDORA FOR USE

MATIST CLUTRO, CIENO AS CONLE. IN MÉER 1259 AN UNTESTED SOUNCE REPORTIN

THAT ONE DO'ONIC BARTONE,

JASO XION AS NICK TARPOT AND DESCRIBED AS & PROSPEROUS

MRICY BUSTESSHAY FROM CLEVELATI, ONTO, WAS TRIINO SO SRI SONS CROEASTER (CAR".

THE DONTICK LAPICTS LOTTICTED IN YOUR MORANDUH DATED 6 AUGUST 2959, JOUR FIXE

NUMBER 205-70973, COTCET INO PORDAY, DONNIE 8. BARTOTI, DOMENIE BARTONS, NICKE

RELATINO OPEDERA

STORY/COATINUSO COMTRO

REPRODUCTION BY ATHERAMAN INE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

201-251145".

RETUANTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

УдА

---

## Page 2

FILI

SLASSIFIED MESSAGE

::PERT/CO:TINUO COTTRE

- POUTINO

wart

LAT

DAtE •

10

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONP.

INFO •

#*, Feise irtuet one

he sta rog then a med ace

sleete D

santo rongested

" ROUTINE

PRIORIT

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

OUT 90344

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

BARGOY, AND TIS DOLIC GAMS NETTICHED BULON ARE BELIEVED TO BE TIE SAUTE

PERSON. )

70 ON. 2 AUGUST A PAIRLI RALIARLE SOURCE RIPORTED FIRE DO THIE BARTONS (SIC),

ISE OTTICS IS LY TES UTICHAL BAMK MILDINO IN IAME, OD SETT A LANTER TO PANAMA

KITH A SARDI ANUIT OF CASH TO OPEY A CHECKING AOCOUNT JULUE PAYAMA CITY BRANCH

OF THE NATIONAL CITE BAIK. TIE BANK DID HOT ACC

I DIOSIT INADIATKEY, BUT

A DICISION HAS EXPITED BY 20 AUGUST. BERETT

TANgS AS PRESSURING THE BANK

TO ACCEPT TEE ACCOUNT. (ECUPCE COMPTS.

IS BOT SVED THAT TIS NOIDS THAT

BERTONE'S LAWTER TOOS TO PATALA AR$ SONNECTED WISH WILLIAM ALSXANDR HORGAY.)

(HEADQUARTERS CONCENT. MORGAN PUBLICLY DICIARED IN MABASA PRAT I HAD RECEIVED

$75,000 TROM TIC COUNTERERS PLUTICARIES FOR USE AGAINST CASTRO. TIS JUNDS SENT

TO PARAMA CITY MAY BE IF DITTIREICE DETVEY THE ANUNT DECIARED EI MORGAN AND

WHAT FIR ACTUALLY RECATYS?

3 TEX SCURCE OF TIE INFORILATION IN PARAORAPH TWO IS SEYSITIVE AND CARE

SIOULD IS IUPCISED IT DSVIOPING LEADS ON TIIS HASTER.

GRY 1389 g

OOPICA.

MOTORY CO FLIED "CONTROL

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER IMAN IME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

MH/R

AUTNGNTICATINO ORDICEO

-Copy No.(

N1:1457

#60-25500051

УДД

---

