# 104-10312-10024

## Page 1

104-10312-10024

18 December 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: DCD/OSG/OSg

ATTENTION

Craig Hale]

SUBJECT

Gordon Michael Dwane Novel

REFERENCE : HH-27696, 10 Decender 1975

1. I have reviewed the allegations in reference that the

British, either British military or British intelligence (other-

wise not further specified), have cutfitted a converted world

War Il Liberty ship as a floating display case for British

military hardware.

I have further checked out the bizarre story

in paragraphs two and three of reference concerning use of the

British ship by Mi-6.

2. This office has absolutely no information to substantiate

the story told in reference and Africa Division also has no

corroborating information.

In short, I consider the story developed in paragraphs

two and three of

reference highly suspect since I do not believe

the British would be able to mount such an operation without it

coming to the attention of this office.

C/EUR/BC

91002T

---

## Page 2

13-00000

16 M: ch 1976

RECORD

SUBJECT: Gordon Novel

1. Mr. Peter Houck resident officer for DCD in New Orleans,

telephoned to say that additional problems regarding Gordon Novel

had arisen and Mr. Houck requested that I call the Assistant U.S.

Attorney, Mr. Al Winters, telephone No. (AC 504) 589-2921. On

16 March I called Mr. Winters and he told me that Novel had posted

$40,000 bond and had been charged with possession of a destructive

device. However, as they investigated the case there seemed to be

more evidence of a conspiracy with other business associates of Gordon

Novel, particularly with regard to acquisition of fairly sizable parcels

of land in downtown New Orleans including land in the French Quarter.

Mr. Winters indicated that his office was beginning to collect evidence

of suspicious fires which had occurred on some of this property. Mr.

Winters estimated that the earliest trial date for Gordon Novel would be

late May or early June.

2. Mr. Winters asked that Mr. Houch not discuss the case with

Gordon Novel or any of his attorneys. Obviously, Mr. Winters is

concerned that such discussions could lead to "Jencks material"! and

I assured him that it was the Agency position that we did not want Mr.

Houck talking to any of the defendants or their counsel unless &

representative of the U.S. Attorney's Office was present.

3. It would appear at this time that Gordon Novel may subpoena

Peter Houck as a witness at which time Mr. Houch can deny the Agency's

approval of Novel's proposal "Project Morningstar.". A second possibility

is that CIA would have to provide a witness from the Office of Personnel

to show that Mr. Novel was never employed by CIA.

4.. On March 16, I called Mr. Houck and explained to him Mr. Winters'

request that he not talk to any lawyers or defendants and Mr. Houck readily

agreed to comply with this request and said that he would immediately call

Mr. Winters if any attempts were made to interview him.

Som Treaney

John K. Greates

A

Sociate General Counsel

cc: Chief/DCD

---

## Page 3

CUNTLEIL O

10-38-15

IA-376-114

1 August 1974

Chief,

DIM

Attn:

Starling

Chief, Los Angeles Fleld Office

Movie on CIA and Watergate

A180532

1182533

I. Mion F. Sandler,

President of Sandler/lapes and Films,

Hollywood, has been approached by Cordon Rowel of Dallas (not

further identified) who le sesking a company to do the filming for

a documentary-type movle on the tople of "the CIA as instigator of

the Watergate breakin."

Novell Alains to be representing, or to

at least have the support of, Janed Colson and Noah Dietricin.

Novell claimed to have the necessary fancial backing for the 185210

project and is now searching for a g9

which is what led him to Sandler•

an expose-type documentary

which shows the CIA as the instigator of the vatergate caper®

The

only other names he dropped were those of James Garrison (New Orleans

District Attorney, and Davin Synn (not further isentified • He

claimed to be getting substantive assistance and cooperation from

the latter two.

3. Sandler offered to pursue the offer if ve desired. He

made no effort to encourage hin, but thanked him for the inforation.

RAYMOND G. DURHAN

RDBeske/mb

File:

GS/Sandler Tapes and F1lms

B2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

13-00000

18-52-10

SECRET 011733Z

JUN

75 STAFF

-

CITE DOD/WASHINGTON

N1352

TO: DCD/NEW YORK INFO

DCD/LOS ANGELES

FROM DOD/WASHINGTON CRYAN

185210

SUBJECI: GORDON NOVEL, LISTER LINE CALLER

REF: DOD/NEW YORK 22934, 25 JUNE 1975

1• A SOURCE OF THE DCD/LOS ANGELES OFFICE WAS APPROACHED BY ONE

GORDON NOVEL OF DALLAS IN JULY 197

MOVEL WAS SEEKING A FILM COMPANY

TO DO THE FILMING FOR A DOCUMENTARY

TYPE MOVIE ON THE TOPIC

OF "IHE CIA AS INSTIGAIOR OF THE WAT RGATE BREAK IN"® NOVEL CLAIMED TO

BE REPRESENTING OR AT LEAST NO SAVE THE

BACKING OF

AND

LAMES COLSON

NOVEL ALSO DROPPED THE NAMES OF JAMES GARRISON OF NEW ORLEANS

AND DAVIN WYNN (NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED>.

NOVEL CLAIMED TO BE

GETTING SUBSIANTIVE ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATON FROM THESE INDIVIDUALS.

3. WE HAVE NO FURTHER

INFORMATIO! IN DOD/MADQUARTERS FILES

ON GORDON NOVEL. WE HOPE

THAT THIS MESSAGE WILL

AT LEAST PROVIDE

SOME BACKGROUND

INFORMATION ON NOVEL IN THE OFF

CHANCE THAT HE

SHOÜLD CALL YOUR OFFICE AGAIN.

A. FILE: HH-273V1. E2 IMPOET CL BY 618877

SE

RET

---

