# 104-10109-10410

## Page 1

104-10109-10410/7

GECLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ISE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CO" DENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional) •

FROM. - LAC/MO/EgE;

Liveli

WH/C/COPS

TO: (Offieur designation, room number, and

building)

1.

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

DATE

NITIAL

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment to shem from whom

to whom.

Draw a line ecross column after each comment.

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Director of Security

ATTN: Alien Affairs Stair

3.

BARKER -

#28/333 requeste

142,

10. NOV 1955

ga

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

670 USE PREVIOU

DITION

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

WH/C 65-499

9 November 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

ATTENTION

: Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT

: Admission to the U.S. for Two Aunts

of Bernard L. Barker's Wife

Bernard L. Barker, a Cuban-American refugee in

Miami (and former Captain in the USAF) has been actively

cooperating with this agency since 1959 in Havana and

He has shown his loyalty to the U.S. Government

and his work for this agency has been very satisfactory.

It has now been learned that two aunts of

subject's wife arrived in Mexico from Cuba on 22 September

1965. On 28 September 1965 they applied for visas to the

Applicants are:

Margarita LAMAR Laine; DPOB 20 May

1907, Havana, Cuba; PP 51527 (confined to a wheelchair

since 1933) and her sister Maria Luisa LAMAR Laine; DPOB

21 July 1900, Havana, Cuba; PP 44495.

3. Headquarters and Miami Station traces on appli-

cants are negative as are Miami FBI traces.

4. It is requested that Alien Affairs Staff arrange

with Immigration and Naturalization Service for the

expediting of these applicants into the U.s.

WH/C/COPS

---

