# 104-10107-10089

## Page 1

104-10107-10089

OUTGOING TELEPOUCH "

09613. 3443

-SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ACT

тоС

Tre

A0290

PAGE

PAGE

TEL

D

• 0

10

SECRET

ANSHANE A

TELEPOUCH

DATE - THINE CROUF

OGC SUBJ: ITKIN, HERBERT

DESPATCH PUSHER

(FAME) 4125

INDIC

Метити тО.

D. 10 moE

E

2

IMPDET

CL BY: 034405

13-10

134

To:

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO: (FAM4125

DATE: • Jb NOVEMBER 1973 13-10

TO: CHIEF OF BASE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CHIEF OF STATION,

013-4

FROM: CHIEF, EAST ASIA DIVISION

SUBJECT: MR. HERBERT. ITKIN

FYI ONLY:

03

24

1: 11: -224 1065-ON.b: NOVEMBER:1973 MR=

IN WASHING

TON. HAND CARRIED TO HOS A LETTER FROM AUSTRALIAN EJUSTICE A. R. MOFF-:

ITT REQUESTING INFORMATION ON THE RELIAFILITY OF MR. HEREORT ITKIN

WHOM HE DESCRIPED AS A FORMER CIA AND FEI EMPLOYEE. THE FOLLOWING

PARAGRAPHS ARE THE GIST OF MR. MOFFITT'S LETTER, UNICH WAS ADIRESSED

"TO "MR. WILLIAN CROSEYS, (SICI DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

3

A. MOFFITT HOLDS A COMMISSION TO INQUIRE INTO THE INFIL-

ETRATION OF ORGANIZED CRIME INTO NEW SOUTH LALES. IT IS OF SUSSTANTILI

¿ IMPORTANCE TO HIS INCUIRY THAT HE CONSIDER EVIDENCE GIVEN DURING A

DATE:

COOROMRATIOG ONFICERS

IP USE ONLY

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CROSS REFERENCE

-.

'!!

FILE NUMBER

55-2-5/3

---

## Page 2

OUTGOING TELEPOUCH

- SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

• 60

ACE

TOG

TRE

SARC

13: 2148

PACKs

TEL...

+ 0.

astricallon

SEES RE T.

' TELEPOUCH

0

O moroni

'D

0

OGC SUBJ: ITKIN, HFRBERT

DATE

TIME CROW

MALE

4325.

PETURN TO:

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 034405

COURT CASE IN ENGLAND IN JULY 1971 BY ITKIN.

B. IN HIS TESTIMONY IN ENGLAND MR. ITKIN CLAIMED TO HAVE.

BEEN RECRUITED BY CIA IN AN "UNDERCOVER CAPACITY" IN ABOUT 1954.

HE

CLAIMED HE WAS WITH THE C-I-A- UNTIL MARCH 1963 AT WHICH TIME EY SOME

ARRANGEMENT HE WORKED FOR BOTH THE FBI AND CIA, UNTIL JANUARY 1968.

C. MOFFITT ASKS FOR INFORMATION ON THE STATUS OF MR. ITKIN

DURING THE YEARS 19L4 TO 1969 AND FOR COPIES OF ANY RELEVANT AFFI-

DAVITS OF PERSONS IN AUTHORITY IN THE FBI OR CIA USED IN PROCEEDINGS

IN USA--

"I His i Do: MOFFITT NOTED THAT IN THE INTERESTS, OF PRIVACY HE ROUT- I

ED HIS LETTER VIA THE AUSTRALIAN-DEPLOMATIC POUCH, AND ASKED THAT THE

REPLY EE RETURNED TO HIM BY THE AUSTRALIAN EMBASSY IN LASHINGTON.

2. MR. MOFFITT'S REQUEST WAS HANDLESI BY THE OFFICE OF GENERAL

COUNCIL EGGCE WHO MADE AVAILABLE FOR MR. MOFFITT COFIES OF THREE

#AFFIDAVITS CALL OF BICH IN PUSLIC DOMAINT RELEVANT TO HERBERT ITKIN

BAND HIS AFFILIATION WITH THE CIA. OGE CONCLUDED THEIR REPLY BY SAY-

CING THẬT

HERBERT ITKIN FURNISHED INFORMATION TO THE CIA EVER A PERIOS

- OF MANY

YEARS, BUT THAT HE LAS NOT SENT TO ENGLAND TO COLLECT A!!

DATE:

COOR

INATING OFFICERS

IP USE ONLY

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

IECRET

CROSS REFERENCE

FILE NUMBER

12-5/3

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1°

TEL:

= HENGE CENTER USE ONLY

÷ 50n;

AGF

TOC

TrE

=0.

0

: 0

10

CRET

ISTAGE MANDLINE E

TELEPOUCH

INDEX

RETURN TO:

O no woex

DATE - TIME GHOLE

0

OGC SUBJ: ITKIN, HERBERT

DESPATCH:

(FAME-RES

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 034405

INFORMATION FOR CIA ÄND'HE DID NOT FURNISH THE CIA WITH ANY INFORMA-

TION WHILE HE WAS IN ENGLAND.

3. OGC'S REPLY WAS SENT TO MR. MOFFITT IN THE SAME CHANNELS HIS

REQUEST CAME IN. HAS POUCHING COPIES AFFADAVITS, BOTH LETTERS..

•U/S/CS VIA POUCH

EC IMPDET -M

11. 1

4:

DATE: 3E NOVEMDEF 1972

ORIG

PRAK

UNIT: EA/PRESINHE

EXT: 5683/9033

COOROHATING OFFICERS

OGC MR. GREATY EIN DRAFTI

IP USE ONLY

CI MR. ROCCA ETE DRAFT}

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY, C/EA

RELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIICATION

SECRET

CROSS REFERENCE

FILE NUMBER

5-2-583

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

---

