104-10506-10020

SECRET

November 1976

SUBJECT: Andrew Gormley BUCKNER (U.S. citizen)

1, There is no 201 dossier on BUCKNER; one should be opened.
2. BUCKNER is pro-Russian, pro-Chinese and critical of the U.S.

3. Trace information:

a. CSCI 3/779,571, dated 16 Jan 1964;

Based on MEXI 7696 (IN 95191) LIENVOY (ZRSAUCE) Project:

Memo to FBI from CIA (DDP) on BUCKNER's contact with the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. States that a usually reliable and sensitive
source in Mexico City reported that on 8 Jan 64 Andy BUCKNER from
Sherman, Texas, asked Guillermo RUIZ Perez, Commercial Counselor at the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City /known DGI7 about the information BUCKNER
gave RUIZ in Mexico in November 1963. RUIZ replied that the answer had
not been received from Habana. BUCKNER and RUIZ planned to meet again, but
the details of the meeting at that time je cana BUCKNER's telephone
number in Sherman, Texas was 892-8145. (CIA said it had no further info.
on BUCKNER at that time, and further stated that it was forwarding the
info. to the FBI for information only, not to be dissemed without permission)

b. CSCI_3/782,043 dated 30 June 1964:

Forwarded to the Bureau of International Commerce, CSCI
3/779121 and CSCI 3/779,571, on H.W. TOTTEN and Andy BUCKNER, Contact
with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.


13-00000

c. DBA 78315 dated 19 August 1964 (FBI):

Concerns Andrew G. BUCKNER aka Andy BUCKNER, and "Little

Caesar", An FBI source reported that two employees of the Washington
Iron Works, Inc., Sherman, Texas told him that Harold TOTTEN, owner of
the business, and an employee, Andy BUCKNER, had made statements critical
of the U.S. Government and of high Government officials. Both TOTTEN and
BUCKNER reportedly had made so-called business trips to Mexico City in
the past. BUCKNER was reported to be purchasing agent for the firm.
BUCKNER had made remarkes among the firm employees that he believed Fidel
CASTRO of Cuba and Nikita KHRUSHCHEV of Russia to be smart people. Both
BUCKNER and TOTTEN criticised U.S. Govt policies and opposition to the
U.S. blockade’of Cuba. They criticized the policies of both Presidents
Kennedy and Johnson. A few days before Pres. Kennedy was assassinated
on 22 Nov 1963, BUCKNER remarked to some of the firm employees that he
had read news stories about President Kennedy's planned trip to Texas..and
thought "it would be funny" if something should happen to him. On the
afternoon immediately following Pres. Kennedy's assassination, BUCKNER
and TOTTEN were at the Iron Works, and after having heard of the
assassination, said it could not have been them because they were at the
Washington Iron Works at the time it happened. TOTTEN received newspapers
and literature from time to time in the names of John R. BRINKS and Thomas
E. EDWARDS. BUCKNER reportedly was hotheaded, thus the nickname "Little
Caesar."

/flave asked Ops Liaison to obtain photo.of BUCKNER from FBI to
determine if he is iden/with "Unidentified man".

d. DBA 99348 dated 18 Feb. 65 - Andrew Gormley BUCKNER (EBI)


13-00000

d. continued -
The FBI contacted BUCKNER in Sherman, Texas on 28 Jan 65 for

an interview. He admitted receiving publications from China and the U.S.S.R.
TOTTEN was contacted by the FBI in Sherman, Texas the same day. The FBI
agent said in his opinion TOTTEN was a dangerous individual and a
"potential OSWALD.'' He considered it unsafe for an agent to contact him,
at his office and if an agent walked into TOTTEN's office,“he might
get a belly full of lead."

we
e. According to rt {ONHA /524, dated March 1953,

one A. BUCKNER (Commmist fellow travelers) was cited as driver for MOCZI,
the Hungarian Charge d'Affairs in the Netherlands.

LAD/JFK Task Force

‘


| OO weaassiico =O) rat CO CONFIDENTIAL =) seceer

a

ra
y phone)

Oro yen Oem Os O sansa

ee



vO 1 Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: ee 8. J. Papich

A dot 5 bah f Director for Plans

msn Ca ag ee with the Cuban Inbasey in

a a Gevally reliable and sensitive source ia

i> City yore that om @ January 1064 Andy. BUCKNER,
g aaked Guillermo RUIZ Peres, Comercial
er at the Cuban ibasay in Boxios Cit? sheet the
‘ormation BUCKNER had given RUIZ in'Hexice im November 1963.
BOLE replied that the answer had not been received fren
Habana, BUCKNER and RUIZ plan te mest a, but the
Getails of the meeting are not known. "gs telephone

Sumber in Gherman, Tema, is 892-8145.

2. This office has no informations on BUCKNER,

3. This information is for your use enly, and my
get be disseminated without permigsion from this Agency.

cact-3/778, 571 i

WH/3/Wexico/VRenshaw: dc

Distribution: 16 January 1964 :
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
ce Rt [eset 37) : BASIC: MEXI-7696
‘+ cra : (IN-95191)
1 = CE/R&A
1 = SA8/CI PROJECT: LIENVOY
1 - WH/3/N (ZRBAUCE)
1 - WH/WEXI
1 - WHER Co-ordinated with: SA8/CI - Hora
(by phone)
Sc.



13-00000



1. ASteehed are twe CECI reports uhich are being
iagmpéed te pou st the request ad the Poderal Barese

of Tnpaptigntion.
2. he iaferwation in ¢hese reports is fer your use
2
ealy, amd aay ust be disseminsted without porutesion fren

mi af lavertigniias
WH 1/Wexico: VY. Renshaw:chk 30 June 1964

Distribution: BASIC; None
Orig. &+1 - Addressee
+1 - RI (200-9-37) PROJECT: None
1 = CILIA
1 = CI/RRA
1 = Cr’IcG
1 ~ WR)
1 = WR‘SACI - Korn
11 wR POA CS copy

Coordinated with WK-SA-CI - Horn (phone)

\
4



a
.
1
‘
2

«
Seaman a nan ne ss - 2 ee eee

w

VTE A A OE EE TO A ES SA cee

UVTI ETT

eoecececces

‘In Reply, Plesos Refer to i
Fide No,

A
7 Aprad a8, ieea. volunteered information that had been received

: r
were smart Le.
/ “Batablishment te recent months,

SP

eee STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

* peDEMAL Bu:

HAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dalles, Texas
August’19, 19

“gary o,Bucmme: )’ ngage
also ‘Knows, as
Ae Buckser /

ov. Johnay B, Morris, 210 Bast Jones, Sherman, Texas,
by him from two employees of Washiagton Iren Works, Inc.

Sherman, Texas. He said they told him Harold Totten owner of Hf

Washi: 1 ‘an employee o:

Totten, have made statements critical of the Suited States

Government jad of bh: ernment officials. i reportedly ~.
@ time of this interview, was in the company of

Buckner om @ business trip to Mexico. He understood that they

bave-in the past sade other so-called business tripa te Mexico

and possibly other foreign nations. He could not identify any

other foreign mations to which they may bave travelled and he

could not provide an explanation for their travel, being

allegedly of a business nature.

DL T-1, contact with whom has been insufficient to

judge reliability of hie information, on May 7, 1984,
advised Harold W, Yotten, Sr. is President and General Manager
rks, fae eee 313 East Lamar, Sherman, Texas, .

ons, employed’by that firm.
eral month® ago at the
anong cuployees there that

S

expressed thens des by .
criticising pol: ee Government and stated_ a

opposition to th
Pr:

U. 8. should leave him slone. Informant stated tha

to fee dave
before President Kennedy vas assassinated on soreeper 33, 1963
Buckner reaarked to sone of theseployees at Vashingtes Irea

y o TeEas a <would be funay” :
if. souething should hopes to him. He meso Tiss remarks as @
PE Ba eid

ote te faa é i Guae) _
ave . ects atid ipsean pupae ‘i
oe ete eee ee sues ele te . .
ore soelbede oe ele tele peesee eee tte cia of
are oe Paeee : .
ore : :
ore ree ' . eee pana
PSioair Saar emer aieaar eee eeeerenaeereteeet Saeeee eames) ee esieanieicaries: ale
ere peat : Perino Hates ote
ete te Hees . . ooo ciated
Par e -7. pantie Siduranreriunir unas ove
eve eta ae Pe ee a ee ove
. fected eLztte Peace eter) ar eres oc
eee Sige iidieinia Sipe isle iia tier oitielttieditce ore
ace . . aHnite aii s: ar)
Peery cinta ettis| Ceseur ander ateeat beteer eae amet teeter ele
ol. : etc fener
ote aneacemeriar)

ree ere eres
rot ere ae a err as



V9 ee ee EE eR E RABE ORO de eee se ee 8

pets

eee tea ree

sree
cee re veeesere
eae eer ee ees

fa

ANDREW G, BUCKWER

continuation of his further criticism of Presideat Kennedy's

policies. Informant recelled that on the afternoon immediately

following President Kennedy's aseaseination, Buckner and Tottea

pobp at, the Washington Iron Works,

it happened.

DL T-1 further stated that since that date, Buckner
have said nothing further
‘ked since that time that Presi:
got any better in their opinion.
various occasions, Totten and Buckner, with other employees at ©
im discussions about what

Washington Iron Works,
Informant stated Totten in

Mbrushchev and Castro have done.
the past has been anti-Semitic in his sympathies and beliefs
and claims he believes the Jews will take over the United States
Informant understood Buckser

beca us:
Informant has

ig an a!

assassination, and vere
then Decause they were at t

eaae ir the money“.
feving in no supreme power,

Informant stated that on

ois
BO. tnowledge’ that either of them has been arrested for any

port

to informant.
both were back to work at Sherman on April 28, 1964

informant knows, she has expressed no sympathies for Russia or

Cuba. Informant said she is loyal to her employer, Totten.

aature.

DL T-1 stated ti

: : ‘Buckner and Totten left Sherman,

. Texas, om April 25, 1964, a Saturday, and travelled to Dallas,
Texas, in @ company car driven,

employed by Washington i.

Buckner and Totten were supposed to have’ travelled from Dallas

to Mexico, destination and purpose of travel being uakuyn

‘Tey were gone from Sheraan only a few days and

Regro
that time,

Iaformaat
stated Totten's secretary, Dorothy Stewart, took a vacation trip
to Mexico City in about the Summer of 1962. So far as

wickmame of “Little Caesar" which he has had for six or eight

yeare.

working for Washing
a few yoare ago bad a “parting of the

sete tastiouiaiee

Tron Forks,

2.

sere

Informant etated one Patrick at the Sherman Auto Works

at ene time was a partner of Buckser before Buckner began

that Patrick and Buckner
ye"

Pr oe

the literature is of anti-communiat
the

Inc., having just heard about
ying that it could not have been
jaqbington Iron Works at the tine

DL T-1 stated Totten receives newspapers and literature
from time to time in the names of John RB. Bri and Thomas E,

Informant believes
Informant stated Buckner is hotheaded and bas

Peeceeceer par parent ier wee aera

. ra era ary

si@ceieisieisteteis sister:

ee ebes

Rete taityie dette tetieiier (ciel ia al

Perera ar ee eee rr er

&
se

x

eoveee

F



i se itn eee MT

pe remseeressone
Poe See ee

CUSVRVTTV TTI Ee Ee sees

‘ Avenue, Sherman, 692-5818, a:

ANDREW G, BUCKKER

DL T-1 on June 19, 1964, further advised informant has
no information that Totten or Buckner bave made any add@i*ienal
trips out of the United States since about April, 1964, whee
they weat to Mexico Informant stated Totten aad Buckner in

about May, 1964, bad some kind of a disagreement between thensel vem,

Rature unknown. The only customer Totten's firm has ia Mexico
was said to be Altos Horaos, Monclovia, Coahuila, Mexico.
¥

ton, Sheriff, Sherman, Texas, on May 7, 1964,
advised he t pertinent taforeat
concerning activities of Harold Tottes or Andy Buckne:
no information indicating either Totten or Buckner have
travelled outside of the United States or that either of the
two has engaged in activities detrimental to the United States.

Be has

The January, 1964 Sherman, Jyxas telephone directory
liats Washington Iron’ Works,‘ Inc., $18 Bast i rman,
telephone 892-8145 ané Triste 892-6300 am a number to call on
lidays and week ends. It rists_H 204 West Texas
ea, Jz., 509 Horth
Holly Avenue, 862-9309. {t also lists 101 South
Grand Avenue, Sherman, 602-8431 and_Andrew G. Buckner, Highway
82, West, Sherman, 892-6840. i

DL T-2, who has furnished reliable information in
the past, on May'7, 1964, advised Harold W, Totten, operator of
Washington Iron Works, Inc., at Sherman, Toxas, resides at 204
West Texas Avenue, Sherman.” Informat Totten receives
mail, bot! residence and at Box 28, Texas, which
rr by Washington I: inc.
ated with that firm received mail
box, Andy Buckner being one of them, but the names
of thers are unknown. Informant stated he heard rumors ral
yeare age that Buckner had anti-Semitic beliefs, He has
information, however, that Buckner or Totten i# affiliated with
any particular orgatimations and bes no information that either
of them has engaged in any activities detrimental to the United
States or has travelled or communicated with anyone outside of
the United Sta

B, MH, Ottememan, Reservations Manager, Braniff Airways,
Dallas, Texas, om June &, 1964, advised bia records reflect

3.



13-00000

eet as PARAREAEE! fo oe ee nee RE AE

Peay ae earns

or

ANDREW G, BUCKNER

A. Buckner and H. Totten travelled on Braaiff flight #51,
First Class, om April 26, 1964, from Love Fisid, Dalles, Texas,
to Mexico City, Mexico, 2d

arriving at Mexico City a
reservation at the time they depa
or the trip to Werico City were ma

: 6840 for Buckner.
Texas telephone numbers. oF

‘+ Ottensman stated their reservation records
fer only about sixty days and he could furnish no data
concerning any alleged travel by Buckner or Totten from Dallas
to Mexico in September or October, 1963:

Miss Betty a piisler, Domestic Operations Division,
Passport Office, U, ‘8, Department of State, Washington, D, C.,
om May &, 1964, advised that office has no recordof Harold
Wallace Totten, Sr., or Andrew G. Buckner applying for or
Yeceiving permission to travel to Cuba.

The file maintained for Harold Wallace Tottes at
Passport Office, United States Department of State, was reviewed
on May 8, 1964, and contained the following:

Passport 2189561 issued April 29, 1960, to Harold
Wallace Totten was renewed on January 28, 1963, to expire
April 28, 1965, He indicated he desired passport to be used
for emergency business trips.

These were Shermans,

@ retained

Records of the Passport Offi
Washington, D. C. as of May 7, 1964,
information conceraing Andrew 6.
Buckner.

4 physical description of Andrew Buckner as furnished
on May 7, 1964, by DL T-1, ie as follews:

Mame: Andy Buckser
mle

rite

About 46

‘
nl
e
‘
e
‘
«
‘
«
4
t)
4
J
4
4
i
4
4
a
a
|



eetledeleled delet telod : a ;
| A euate
: Sunt
ANDREW G, BUCKNER ae
OBA DEBI.
Height: About 5'7° .
Weight: 160 pounds < :
Blond, crewcut Or
\ Medium dark or ruddy es
Blue, wears black shell-rimmed reading 5 +
glasses : ate :
Residence: West Highway 82, Shérman, Texas Hee
- Tate document contains neither, recommendations nor ea
conclusions of t FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is .
loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be ate
distributed outside your agency. a
7 oe
BH

-5- . ei
oof. . 2
ecia : . woe . -
ote sires paneer ieee Pesieer tester pest coe .
ele site ace atats . ole
one rr ers siete te el ele le
ateiae pee . iota
afer a Melt tet
ole Peeaer emery ee woe Preece)
Penaey Poeiveer tetreee asset eee fusreep-aetdeer eter] ettuer seer aeeier Steceey . ate
ove Ste its Sti Dishes iaiieles oe
eee beret CHeiiCieseer eestece seer Hettee PSereerreenberriatieosel
Cheeses Beecssas ite CHD Dirneer ning) ee ee
ota ote? Peeeerteer : Peceeererceer tinea ete telat
oe wtet Snr anes ceetee eee eset tenis aameer vieeer teneee teeter aut anear eae ee
eo soe : eve poe
e*e wie Paisner feaecedteaciseei ases eet ameeee See anceee dn eee eee



a ° iG ‘et a bie ‘a Ciraieee Hen

ee eo oC a ee es

Cees ere te rrr arr ae ee

3 7 Lt
2 % i - ie a

alae

svice, Vas outa
ee
te conaalt

OTE oo 2574.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

‘al
er a : oe
: Huei Ai ieee

Aascsese3

13-00000


Receives,

at 3

_ Race
Bae,

Byes

300, Peking, china.”

Peosives these
adeatify, im order te keep informed.
qpon the meaning of that comment.

pexadrpomyg

oetesece
° eg ae
2 aie
e e e
ees
at ee
coetets
sfeteces
e J
° ele
ensseses
cian taitie
ary ehe
°-6 eee
2 oy
wat *e*

of his om velitica,

\ @ weekly publication {rom Moscow, 0.3.8.2.
‘and other publications, which he @1é mot
He did not elaborate

imted out that any information (urnighed by hia
Bt was an eave.

rem “Guosi bkediaa, China Publications Center, P.O.
He stated that piece of mail re-
opived by Bim contained a weekly Red China newspaper that he
He volunteered that he also receives “Hew Times,”

Be said be

After volunteering the above remarks, Backner

iterated that he beg nothing te say to agents except in
' the preseace of another pe!
the agente and the fact

Me wrote down the aaass

t ome of them is stationed

Texzes, end the other at Dalles, Texas. The
wap terminated at 11:53 a.m, with mo indication

vem that amy further attempt would be made to

Sateview & him at any place.

Phyeical description of Andrev Goraley Buckner

Age

Boight

Roight :
maiz

Complexion

‘ebvtained by observation aad interview is es fellows:

white
Male

40 - 45
3°8" or &
About 165

(pocshca
ktght brow, cut short

fediun

Dalles T-1, who Bus furnished reliable

iafermation in the past,
etvined A. Buckner, Route

i August, 1963,

Texes, bed been contacted wy a repre-
sentative @f Guosi shudian, Exporters
and Importers df books and periodicals

im Peking, Chima.

Quosi Ghudias, ia

accord with instructions from Buckser,
forwarded to him s copy of “

Review" with a request be recoguend this
Gagamine to acquaintances in the United
States, who way be phathahaas ie seb-

scribing to it.

1@oeseoees

EOCFCORS ORB EoD oO oe HEH

6 f
Coe 66 ta FRERK ORBELO

GERKOPOKR OHO Fee gresaee

eRe



im July, 1833,
@ pro-Chinese
ia the

who hes furaished reliable

°
.
BUCEEE.

informition ia the

Geeta
Dallas T-3,

RE: ARDS

Dn ee mm ewe cere er POOR HU Se cee CHRTHS ESR SKN ORE ETO eeeEe

tad aidity dy

ae aa
Uae
seta Hee

Pao te
Hbioy fag atl Gi
rated Blt hea
Seay eta eat
ia (ee
| i if ine i
fiat! i En

.

yl iis

i :
{ :
a

j lsd



Add  CROCEIT OL
BS! REE Aged

oa a | — . ee
ai fe dl il 4
3 tut se rs 4 fh
a He sit ant

a}; H fil, ay i 1 1 a3 tOecccecvcae eibcclaret

ae ‘i i is i i BEES

apps 2aspites'y
| ae :

PRN inn et

i Ht
F i: Ka

aa



13-00000

Pee ea aS TA
ONG ty TA

RAS AREA
eeeaebeuse cages

HEMEL SARS 9 9



13-00000


13-00000

ee oe be Frsbe
Cauntry: HUNGARY /ARGENTINA

Subject: Suspeoted persons

Reference: _ (rut] L

surnene: > X gggaz.

Christian Name: _Denerd

Jorn sns ‘ 2
ont (date): “eth May 18097

\

National fry: Hungarian a
Frofession: Hungarian Aubassador at BUEROS-AIRES
Address: BUDAPEST, Rurnbach Schestyna u 12 VI/8
Type of Pagsport: Hungarian DiplonatietFassport .
Number: D = 6783/1980 *

Valid until: “Slot December 1955

Tesued at: BUDAPEST :

Visa: AUSTRIA, 26th March 1951, 20th May 1951
SWITZERLAND, Srd April 1961, 12th May 1962
ARGENTINA, $th May 1961, 27th October 1961
CZECHOSLOVAKIA, 4th February 1965.
URUGUAY, 20th Qotober 1962; THE NETHERLANDS, Sth.
Remarks: Pebruary'195S (transit)

Arrived at Schiphol Lites Buenog-Aires on 18th
eb aie pirt rit ce ar
Hungarian chargé d'affaires ot

ary
Sit Rice eaiit:
On 1éth FebruaFy"t terted from Schiphol ©
He stayed” in THE NETHERLANDS with the a
Embassy.



oUBA
Subject: —~ Suspected persons:
Reference;
Surname:
Christian Nam
Born in:
ont (d
Mationality:
Frofessions
Address:
Type or Paesportr

Number:
“Valid untia: 20th Noveaber 1087

Issued nt: HAVANA
Visa:

Remurke: See my A.S61S, d.d. 2nd February 1983.

R. travelled in the company of RAAYMAKERS
(psychiatrist) from Schiphol to Curagac.

R. has not recovered from his illness.

He started to Curagao on 6th March 1955.



Ceuntry:
Subject:

Reference:

* Suspected persons

(Fxaz7 |

Surname: . Agumanno TOLEDO LET 4 Hr bed)

Christian Name:

Born: in:

Ont (date):
Natfonality: ”
Frofession:
Address:

“Type of Pasapertr
Number:

Valid until:
Issued at:

“isa:

Romapks:

Visente i=
ee ae
[eeeee mn poet Cte:

- b6 th July.

Mexican

"Delegado Permanente de La Federasion Sindical
Mandi al ante el Consejo Eeonomico Haciones Unidas"
MEXICO, Artistes 61 V: sae Obregon. “Distrite: Peder:

Diplomatio\Passport
986-D-560 4 L-

MEXICO

CZECHOSLOVAKIA, 29th December 1962. Trensitstemps:
CZECHOSLOVAKIA? IN 25ré February 1953, 24th
February 1965; AUSTRIA: IN 24th February 1955, OUT
2nd March 19553 CZECHOSLOVAKIA: IN 2nd March 196S,
OUL Srd March 1965; SWITZERLAND: Srd March 1953
_ arrived at Schiphol from Mexico on Mist February
1955, in transit for PRAGUE. He ae ty in the
company of his wite Rosas Maria OTERO de LOMBARDO.
L. was refused to enter THE NETHERLANDS.
on be he travelled from ZURICH via Schiphol
to: Mexico.

Please fina herewith a photostat-copy of the
passport of LOMBARDO=TCLEDANO.



13-00000

Country:
Subject:

Reference:
Surneme:

Suspected persons

fa!

Eouador
Chofor

ordinarytfessport

sse2k fey he

23rd February 1955

QUITO

AUSTRIA, 24th February 1983

Arrived at Schiphol from Eouador on 4th Maroh
1955, in transit for VIENNA.

He travelled in the company of P.VEGA.

They woula attend @ congress in VIENNA.

Please find herewith a photostat-copy of the
passport of VILLACIO.



Country: CUBA

Subject: Suspected persons

"| Reference: Fut] ( -
Surname: iS X vinat <
Christion Name: Juan Felio

“Bern in: . SANTIAGO
Ont (date): 2nd November 1898

National! ty: Cuban

Trofesaicon: Lawyer (leader of the Cuban Communist Party)

Address:

Type ef Passport: Ordinary*Passport
” wumbein: 25072,

Valid until: 25th November 1957

Issued at: HAVANA

Visa: AUSTRIA INt 4th December 1952, OUT: 6th Febru
1955; FRANCE INs ?% , OUT: 19th February 19

~

Remarks: Arrived at Schiphol from PARIS on 19th February
19653, in transit for HAVANA,
He travelled in the company of M.J.VIDAURELLA Y
CANAL (possibly his wife).
Possibly they attended the Peace-Congress in VIEXHN
(December 1952).
Contacts at Schiphol: V.R.SERRET Y ZEFBRA end
F.P.RUSSO ALESI.



Cauntry:
Subjact:
Reference:
curnane:
Christion Nemes
Fern int

ont (date):
National!
Profesaten:

\dapias: +

Type ef Passpart:

Number?
Valid until:
Issued at:

Visa:

Romurks:

Pacey ieee

Rlst March 1955.

pains A, 3TT4.

Suspected persons

SANTA CLARA LAS VILLAS
SOth May 1695

Cuban
Professor

Ordinary/Passport

25071 ws

25th Novenber 1957
HAVANA

AUSTRIA IN: 4th December 1952, OUT: 6th February
1953; FRANCE IN? ?? , OUT? 19th February 1953.

Arrived at Sohiphol from PaRIS on 19th February
1953, in transit for HAVANA.

She $ravelled in the company of J.F.MARINELLO Y
VIDAURELLA (possibly her husband).

Possibly they attended the Peace-Congress in
VIENNA (December 1952).

Contacts at Sohiphol: V.R.SERRET Y ZEFERA abd
¥.P.RUSSO ALESI.



Ceuntry:

Sut seer:

Slet March 1083.

A. 3773
CUBA

Suspetted persons

fan

> SBRRET_Y_ZEFERA

Victor Reason

HAVANA .
10th May 1914
cuban

Meaioo Cirujano.

ordinary Passport
35081

Srd Decenber 1953
HAVANA

AUSTRIA IN: 4th December 1952, OUT: 26th January
1955; FRANCE IN: 24th January 1955, OUT 6th
Febriary 1953; ITALY IN? 6th February 1983, OUT:
19th February 1953,

Vigum RUSSIA, 17.1.1953, issued at MOsooW.
Arrived at Schiphol from ROMA on 19th Pebruary
1953, in transit for HAVANA,

Poasibly he attended the Peace-Congress in
VIENNA (December 1952),

Contacts at Schiphol: F.P.RUSSO ALESI,
J.PsusRINELLO Y¥ VIDAURELLA and M.J .VIDAURELLA Y
CANAL.

Pleese find herewith e photostat-copy of the
passport of V.R.SERRET Y ZEFERA.



13-00000

lst March 1953.
euntry: ITALY 4. 3776.

Le

Suspected persons

Be farense: Gut] ( iz
Senne! '— “frgago_amesp (marrica wo(zowcronwo) “°° >
By P Francesco Paola :
POLIZZI GEWEROSA

22nd December 1955

Sut feet:

Italian
Casalinga
POLIZZI GEVEROSA (Provine Palermo)

Ordinary’Rassport
ieireeeeiined 4253030 P.
tii: 16th December 1953

PALEKVO

Innigration-visum U.S.A.

sgt totus Arrived at Schiphol from PALERMO on 19th February
1955, in transit for NEW-YORK-C:IICaGO.
Contacts at Schiphol: V.R.SERRET ¥ ZEFERA,
J sF.MARINELLO Y VIDAURELLA and M.J..VIDAURELLA Y
CANAL.

o/s Please find herewith a photostut-oopy of the
Passport of RUSSO ALESI, F.P.

me


soperty

20th March 1983,
CUBA A. 3770.

Suspetted persons

fe)

eGR Y valentin ‘ ae

Pedro Julio
The Republic DOMINICA
Spd June 191s

Ordinary’Passport
19736 _

lst august 1954
HAVANA

AUSTRIA, lat December 1962

M. was in the possession of 3 visa on a loose
Sheet of paper (CZECKOSLOVAKIA and probably
A STRIA)

3. arrived at Schiphol from PRAGUE on 20th
Pobruary 1953, in transit for Londen-Airport.
Possibly he attended the Peace-Cor. oer
VIENNA (December 1952),

Me was in tne ocssession of @ book, »u.tled:
"Prague; image: ‘:. pnotographa™,

Please {ind uer+-° =. @ photostat-cu:> of the
Passport of SALENTING i



Country: CUBA

Subject; Suspected persons :
Reference: Car]. ~
Surname: -gaypovan HERRERA //, /
Christian Name; Pevto a Aen
Porn in: HAVANA

One fdate)s seh gamany 2608
Nationality Cuban : ‘
Frofesston: Labourer

Auarees: HAVANA

Troe ef Passpart: Ordinary Passport

Number: “4970”

Valid until: 22nd November 1957

Issued nt: HAVANA

Visa: AUSTRIA, 4th December 1952

Remarks: Arrived at Sghiphol from HAVANA on 26th
February 1953, in transit for VIBENA.
He travelled in the company of AVILA GONZALES,
Refeel.

Please find herewitn a photostat-copy of the
Passport of SANDOVAL HERRERA,



Ceuntry:
Subject:

Reference:

fet Surname: \_

Christian Name:

Bern in:

On: (date):
Hutdonality:
Profess

addreos:

Suspected persons
(rs
Wow
Pacifico
enn

J

See passport

16th February 1917
Ecuador

Chofer

Type cf Psesport: opdinary*Paasport

Remarks:

38750 | reer’

23rd February 1955

QUITO

AUSTRIA, 24th February 1953

Arrived at Schiphol @n 4th March 1958, in trensit
for VIENNA.

He travelled from Rouador via Amsterdam and
ZGrich to VIENNA in the company of &.VILLACIC.
They would attend « congress in V:EMMA.

Please find herewith a photoatat-oory of te
passport of VEGA.



13-00000

Obun try:
MBJeets!
Reference:
Surnane: |

.

Suspected persons

Guill 4

léth February 1956

HAVANA
A STRI,

~
» 18th February 1955.

Arrived at Schiphol from HAVANA on 86th
February 1953, in transit for VIENHA.
He travelled in the company of SANDOVAL HERRERA,

find herewith a photostat-copy of the
ort of AVILA GONZALES.

N

