104-10218-10004)

. | __ Chie? of Btation, DAVE

To
Chief, Tasx Force W

Action Required: See Below
Beference 3A WAVE 1092, 1 February 1962
B. DIR 40391, 7 February 1962
ue Headquarters regrets that the derogatory informstion or Subject

was uct forvarded to JsUAVE as etated in Reference B. It is forvardea
herevith. : : *,

2. Action om Subject's Provisional Operational Approval bas been
suspended until the information being fowarged is clarified. SUAVE
comssnts are requested.

Distributions
Original & 1 - BRAVE v/att’

: Ba ee ee ee oo ae :
eeteti el Feiss co me =D po mmaeeh Go | 28MAR 1962 | f
: i 5 ‘OSPATCH SMSO AND NUMBER
y CRRA ERR
rt: ; SEGHET jp RACE al
ipreseres ce # is 5 ORIGINATING.
an - "E/ Ope Support dean a “856s
ce | pup pav/ops | Ener a
aed ea ereeaeae Red arv/ope spt 22 mar 62] |
: Width ol Hebe os

TH/PM

fom
a)



2. Ga &) Soptaabay gf, Mr, Chevies V. FIORE was Cobetefes wpm
Ris rotern from SZ et the SIDE area an’ Ms ebesgems rete to Go
OLeice ef Regretion, tr. HOTEL eivisct of the follering inekens thes"
choarres Gsving bio troval fyoa US to Vaskingten vhélo in Ray Woks
“Qe. Gao hte? engines of the exter vessel GANA, fives maze Levey lon;
oP happens te sset PERT ia @ cmall restecrast «% kmdh tien view :
- FEQUEE wee in Kay Weet. Levey roengnies’ -PIUEET end pressotes te Gal ~~ «

i fartiar vend on to stebe in on infieavote rarer thet he knew vhere
M3 of ‘yoa" people wave of all times. ltr, FREWE Gt4 net pwees tho

ettustion fartier ent etomyted to exit gracefully. Mo stated tied this
to net (he fires tin thes lavey ino been indlogrete tn his diesassten
"Of Brajesh eettvition, “Feea seuviess contact vith Larry, Mr. PIOETE

exgineee oerd tho IMA ties cam oparete tle waresl. In difficalttes
‘With the opmration ef the FAUNA Gas prinarity of Larvy's boing en
Iuevicen ethimn, Larry tne ciate tm cffect that be dese not care who”
Gives eters. | He will go om operctions 2f bo co Gosivess fo emieee :
Cines be bas Netley baretes tho Agmagy. ae
,3e, Sede entrar 19 trout to your sitoation fur possible ection os your

Fat Sas ae ae 39 2A LB BEC IRE ed AT AD eS OE enitsingh ae alee © MA

‘etm tied he, Lavy, Ruey where FIOSET bed deen ead whet he med bees Getege -

