# 104-10169-10252

## Page 1

104-10169-10252

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Ñoi Reproduce

ROLANDO CUBELA (OR CUBELAS) SECAVES

No the wats the

e never been called Cotk.e

en called a choing

Nichnamed "Cockey" (El Blaço), CUBELA 18 a medical ductor who playod a leur

prominent role la the "e nainet BATISTA. At present CUBELA la 33 Years 2ie

lid.

old,

When be was 13, CUBELA participatod in the assassination of Ll. Col

BLANCO Rico, the Chief of the Batleta Military Intelligence Service. Then

shie

¡and later CUBELA was ong of the ma.: Influential student leaders and led: Rhe

proup ol the Revolutionary Student Directorate which fought la the Sierra del

Cecambray against le Batiste forces. He wis politically ambitlous but in

the post-Butleta dage was outmanoeuvred by Fidel CASTRO 8O THAT, as Fidel'&

star ascended, Cubela'a declinee, It would appear probable that CUBELA'A

taterent in elminating CASTRO stame la part from a personal grudge and in

part from political ambiion but not from ideological principias. He does not

appear to have been a communist at any time but he defended communiats and

participated in communist sponsored conferences. He participated la anti-

D.ll. activilies. Yor exampler, hn was one of thone who turned the closing

Of the newspaper Diarto de la Martas lato an anti-American demonstration;

he mouthed unti-Americao alogans in prees conferences beld in connection

with a communint dominated student conference in Urugury: In June 1960;

ho denounced the American Embasay In the Cuban press in October 1960;

he dubneribed to anti-American resolitiona at a communis-led conference

In Medeo ta siay 108L, There have been numerous reports indicating that

COBELA has engaged in homosexual sctivides. He appears, it beast, to

have formed purt ol a dissolute group which included perverts of both eexes

and which uned drugs an woll as aicobol in ita frequent partying. His present

Capabilties and attrades are l matter of conjecture. Certainly his Iníluence

Ams wanad and he li sooking opportunitien to reustrbllah ll. He seems to have

few peruples and well might engage in another amassination if it would

advance bin taterouts but he well might neck an accomutation with CASTRO

(1l ho has not already dons su) and betray any Americine who become livelved

Mth him.

-03

CARLOS TIPEDINO

03, 08

TEPFIND le a succesafa! 98 your old jewelor, shrow and nell-educatod.

He had provided fanda to groups engugal in the atruggle sealont BATISTA

and inows a number ol lung uho plagad important rolan in the strurglo.

He men and lo a clone friend of CUBalA.

JOROL CARLOS ROARINO MARIIQUES, "IL MAOO"

MOARENO de a yeir yeir old lawyer who participated in student revolutionary

BetINties Agains BATIUTA.. Atter ¿be collapto el BATISTA, RODRENO

participied in the triale ol anti-Castroites and headed the firing squada

2 Which araculed rumerous people. - He haa len a drunkurd and brawler for

peare, often has had duscullue with the poldee, him been a wife beater, sid

Адро

---

## Page 2

14-00000

once arol au AmorieRo in Habana as the result of a quarrel. Al present he

la Involved with Sonin PERLA Gid, a well kout Cuban show girl, by wbom

he has one ilegumale child. (He wu suecessiud in having ber joln blm in

Spaln. ) He le in close touch with Cuban emuassies in both Madrid and Parla

and roported to both if tbem concerning his meeting in Paria Me ADiNIP-!,

an anti-Castro Cuban, ROBRENO brawled with the Spanish Police who

ordered him to leave pain and (according to a ille summary) permitted him

so siny berruse he agreed to vork for them.

ALBERTO BLANCO ROMARIZ

BLANCO, commoly called "Crazy" (l Loco), sow 18 years old, allegedly

una fiven a medical dacharge from the Unitod Slates Alr Force in October

1950 and was divoreed in Miams, Fisrida In 1963, after a 1 year separation,

from Masy Larian ol Bostor, Massichusetta, He claimed to bare taken

part in anti-battta activity and later to have participated in biay 1059 ta

Cuban Invanion el Nicaragua, rasulting in hia capturo, his laprisonment

in Managus, Nearagun for 8 monthe and Me subeequent imprisonment la....

Cuba from June to September 1900 (because Fidel CASTRO had not approved

parte pation in the lavasion of Nicaragua). He went to spain sa a refugee

lis Boptember 1964 at which time Claimed that ho was sent an a penetration

agas by tho Curio inteligenco dervico, A summary roport la the headquarters

Ille Indientes that an LCFLUTTER examination bout Soptember 1984 did not

rovend major deception. (We are trylog to locate the precise question uned.)

In Cuban 18 contact in nirid in Lula Mamel CANTILLO Todisc, asliened

to the Cuban Embang.

TENTATIVE, PRELIMINARE ANAL YE&

There la so convleing evidence that the group te working ulther for or

against the regime ol Iidel CASTRO. Reporte on loir contacts with un

and thet discussions among thamselves are at variance. In 194a Fidel

CASTRI, reportedly kaowing that they were plotter aginat him, talked lo

CUBELA and seven rembers of his escup to collat their support aginat

Amibel ESCALANTY Dollinda and the rommunicio in Cuts, Foesibly they are

playing ooth rais agaiuet tin micd. Thay certalaly hare been and are ia

contact with the two enda.

-...

Ne/w9/003-

---

