id in64 0089

vance Com, epBiorteo NB BOs

ACTION UNIT,

ee ee En
iH
UNITENST I IEG ete | cdliziideihaie iC f rel atralaar Portes
: ite i ; i srr EREGEE MOE

| ST AFF

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED

ree)

sl

“|

EZ , akh,

7 64 a9 63> ams iGuieuunty 4.

AR 77

G2) 02 SRE sis) Re

3/bl

Coons Kear — 2416-17

32390

SECR E T 219442 MAR 77 STAFF
ibe
CITE 32398

TO? PRIORITY DIRECTOR.
WNINTEL RYBAT

th=17

REF? 3238 40n/ ve D &

1, CARACAS ENGLISH LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER "THE DAILY JOURNAL"

OF 2 MARCH HAS FOLLOWING EDITORIAL COMMENT ENTITLED "THE NEW YORK

TIMES AGAI NMS
TEXT: "WHAT IS THE NEW YORK TIMES TRYING TO DO?
AEP
IT PRINTED AN ERRONEOUS REPORT SLANDERING THE HAD OF A

FRIENDLY STATE, BASED ON RUMORS WHICH ITS OWN CORRESPONDENT

~os—
ADMITTED WERE NOT FULLY CHECKED OUT. TIS ACTION CAUSED A SERIOUS

DIPLOMATIC INCIDENT WHICH WAS SETTLED ONLY THROUGH THE PERSONAL

INTERVENTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE USA.

NOW, THE NEW YORK DAILY» IN AN APPARENT ATTEMPT TO SALVAGE

ITS REPUTATION, HAS DUG UP A SELF-PROCLAIMED FORMER CIA OF FICIAL

- ae
WHO. SAYS THAT THE CIA GVE MONEY TO THE GOVERNMENT HERE» NOT TO

ANY INDIVIDUAL.

LAST NIGHT, THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALLY AND

EMPHATICALLY DENIED THIS REPORT,

RET RETURN TO CIA
Sete ea Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


_ cat? ’see bisset ay” per

TOTAL copes RUN BY

Sees ee Ae REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAP
i | SECRET jecuime cornice acenarsaire
PERSON/UNT NOTIFIED. _ arate eH SHEE ere tren tnd SEC :
ADVANGE Copy ISSUED/SLOTTED yy ST AFF
Reon Uni ——— ae a
t} RE. FILE. VR. oe oo
So
N 2 15]
acon TE 3 al
Oo
T 64.4963 El Al 2 "PAGE B2= 82 = IN 203739

ay

I
32399

TOR! @219592 MAR 77

THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, ON ITS OWN INITIATIVE AND

WITHOUT ANY PROMPTING FROM WASHINGTON, FOUGHT COMMUNIST INSURRECTION
TO A STANDSTILL HERE IN THE EARLY. SIXTIES» THERE WAS NO NEED
OF ANY PAYMENT FROM THE CIA FOR ANYTHING. THE VENEZUELAN GOVERN=
MENT WAS WHOLEHEARTEDLY IN THIS FIGHT FOR ITS OWN REASONS, TO
PROTECT ITS OWN INTERESTS, USING ITS OWN RESOURCES.”

2, NOTE IN THE ABOVE THAT THE JOURNAL HAS MADE THE
SAME ERROR AS THE GOVERNMENT OF VENEZUELA IN ATTRIBUTING INFO
FROM "INTELLIGENCE SOURCES" AND "AN OLD OFFICIAL OF THE CIA" AS
COMING FROM DAVID PHILLIPS. SINCE ONE OF THE FAVORITE STUNTS IN
THIS COUNTRY IS TO QUOTE STATEMENTS OUT OF CONTEXT AND/OR MISQUOTE
ACCIDENTALLY OR ON PURPOSE» SUCH STATEMENTS RARELY CLARIFY ANYTHING;
THEY ONLY COMPLICATE» ALMOST ALWAYS TO OUR DISADVANTAGE.

3, NO FILE. E2-IMPDET.

*Advised that New York Times article of 1 March has blown the lid off the
situation in Caracas again,

os SECRET
