104-10048-10113]

ORG:

REDES /RAREALL/Yep. : 6 7 ao bye odo
" CLASSIFIED MESSAGE” pate: °

: : SECRET FILE: pe ae Be
: : CLASSIFICATION ot

To.

OPERATIONAL.
IMMEDIATE 1.

= ae
PEXORITY' DIE “SINFO. PACE, LANT, BAG 7: ONE wave FER 98382 |

ToMsER

INELL.TYPIC
SUPDATA® PARAS 2-9:  AMCLATTEN-] PEC YEAH FIORINK) PARAR 8-9:

AG ,
FEROS ‘erasney DES REO 87088 WITH EGRERT IEA. +
JACK UREGHT, WHO ENEW 204 pre 2aRU, OFSERED IBA $1200 TO QAER FLIGHT. -
TBA REFUSED. PLEASE PROTECT IBA. Bip: ENDSK.” FEUD * i

SEU? 2 EXCLUDED. ERow fH
AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING — - . og pee
AED PECLASSIFICATION >

Boxee ARERENSITH OREICESEAN
OUTGOING



13-00000

EXT: “CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: 34 ney. G4)

FILE:

i DEFERRED PRIORITY INAS
H ROUTINE OPERATIONAL [wate
ro 7 = INFO. ae fan

ESPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISS
eum ° :
S9BJ: 2) SCHEDULED OvERYLIGHT OF CURA BY TES HIER ON 14 JURY 1984

2) EBFORTS OF JACK HRIGIT 1) EMRE A PILOT 70 RUSEUES OYERSLY CuEA -
DOL: 14 SLY 1954 : 7

t RADA: UNITED | STATES, HIGUY (14 JULY 1964)
UEG-5517 : 7

“SOURCK: SKE PARAS 2 AND 7. —- &

1. SOURCE FOR PARAS 2-6: A TRAINED OSSERVER WITH ACCESS FO A
“WIDS VARIETY C¥ CUBAN EXILES, Souncs iS *NOWN TO MOST CF HIS conracrs
43 2 CEAKMEL TO U.S. INFELLIGENCE, TIS IUPOMMATION WAS OBTATEED +
1+ SRO Rane wromyEn, eee a
2. Of 14 JOLY 1954 FRANT FICRINI SAID THAT THE AGVIMELETO :

INSUERECCIONAL DE RECUPZRACICN KEVOLUCIONARIA (ZINK, IRSURRECTIONAL
BOVERENE FOR RSYOLUTZOHARY RECOVEEY), WICH 18 LED BY ORLARDO BOSCH,
AVILA, WAS PLANEING TO MAUS AN OVERULIGHE OF CUBA OR THI RIGHT OF +
" 2 DULY, gLG
1 , $. ACCORDING TO FIORINT, A TWIM BSSCEORART, OFNED AKD onan Pe

_ BT AN, AMERICA EROS ONLY 33 3 dacs i 25,20 Be FLOWN FROM OPALOCEA, oH -

: “ encae x: sxcLuDID Frew ~
| RBawehe emmeanmns Soccer: patennine orncen

et, poe



13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE:

Ext : 14 suLY 34 ve
pistR: =! FILE: : o '
winnie | ere
i DEFERRED PRIORITY ._|
OPERATIONAL | iriace
ROUTINE IMMEDIATE ~
INFO. . cure
N ee wanes

FLORIDA, OM 14 JULY TO A PRIVATE ATUPICLD In LONG SY, FLORIDA,

: 4. UY ADDITION TO THE PILOT, THE FOLLGWING PERSONS ARE
SCEDULED TO RARE THE OVERILIGEE ¢ ad UNILENLIFIZD COURAN CO-PILOT, ©
pect arbiter prepa ouae an TES poms. QPIGLD COMRENT: BEB GRLANDO
pare DENIS HAS BREE PERVIOUSLY BEFORTED as’ ‘pus PERSON CHARGED HITE
RARIAG THS BOMBS USED EY TES MIR IN THY Pasy.)

3. ON 21 JULY, JACK TOOK FIONINE, EYL JOMSON, AND BIKE
SAPPERTY OM A SHORE FLIGHT EN THE ELECHCRANT, GH 12 JULY, JACK TOOK
BOSCH FOR A FRIGHT U2 AND NOW THR EAST COAST OF SLORIDA. \

G6. FIORINE SAID THAT CH 14 JENE ES, BILE TRAE AND THO ¢
OTRER PRESONS CANVASSED LANDING FECYLITIES AT CHUN ERY, TREASURE .
ISLAND WHECH-IS BEAR GRASN TORTLS ISLAND, AND GREAT ADACO ISLAND
FG THE MINK, BOSCH ParD TAR 599 ZRCURRED FoR THS FLIGHT, ESD

CEMENT: IT IS NOT ENOWH WIELTEER THERE ES anY CORNSCTION REVERE TS
14 JMR FLIcHT dp Tae ovErrLiour scmepmxn vou YE amex.) . ad
“7. SOURCE FOR PARAS 8-9: | CONVETENT AUORICAN ONamYER uO SPOR |
WITS A FRIEND OF JACK WRIGHT. : c :
8. AT ADOUT SXXSENTUIGA:00 PH, ON 19 FLY 1964 JACK WRIGHE, AN
ADERECAN, WAS LOOKING FOR A PILOT TO UAE AN OYERELIGET GF CURA mm

COORDINATING OFFICERS:

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER & SLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
en OUTGOING >



ext: "CLASSIFIED MESSAGE aT:

: 7 14 guar ett
DISTR : : - FILE: : 2

| initiays | Bra, NUMBER

DEFERRED. PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL | rrr .
ROUTINE IMMEDIATE pal ‘

INFO. : ie G23 9332

img 2) NUMBER

36

A TWIN EESCECRART O8 THE NIG@IT OF 14 JULY, TRE FLIGHT WAS TO EE :
DIRLCT AWD RAS TO TAX" ABOU? FOUR NOUNS, FOIGRT RAS BILLING TO 6°
PAY THE PILOF $1200 Fon TER TRIP, ed :

8. WIGHT, A FORMER SBA CAPTAIN, OWES A Funy PRSCHCRARE, A
f-28, AND A SPARTAN RZUCULIYE, TEESE AYECRATT ARS BAING KEDT IN FORT
. LAURERDALE.  (FIGuD COMENT: TSE S T-29, REGISMATION NSOAT V, IS ¢

ESLIZVED TO ES REGISTERED TO TI SUNSY SOUTH AINCRAFT SERVICE In ;
PORT LAUDSEDALS, WHICH COMPARE 26 ONNED BY JACK WRIGHT.)

10. BYSLD DISSE: CINCLANT, cTECGO, Sqescisrzoa, urant REPS
OF STATE, FRY, CUSTOUS, & & NG, ECEDER PATROL, AND USSG.

: BHD OF MESEAGz cy :

COORDINATING OFFICERS ; Ei

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: SIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

