rost01fa-t0211

ene

eo : | ® > SECRET] | @

RETURN To cia 19 April 1963

lackground Use
Onh
0 Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD: eee ~~
te Beene a a Oe: 7

SUBJECT: ‘Cover/Security Action Regarding Use of (WUTACTIC/:
(@BDUTDONE Office Space by SAS/DD/P. Career Agent.
o2- : eee fs

1. Reference ig made to memorandum dated 11 “April .
1963 from Mr. Joseph Marphy» voDS/Security, to DO/COCM .
relative to the above Subject. In régponse to a request -
from Chief, Support/DODS, the writer initiated appropriate
and final cover/security action to permit implementation
of the Subject proposal as soon as possible. . :

On 16 April 1963, the writer met with Mr. Vie cies
pa/COCM, for final discussions prior to the tover7.." - ie
security briefing of SAS Career Agent Ross Crozier. Follows: °°”

ing approval of the- sed plan of action by Mr.. Stan scapes
i a! Chief, Support/DODS; and Mr... 7 ~
03 'DO/COCM, arcangemerite were.made to meet in the” _.
. on ril 1963 with SAS Case’ Officer Mr. Charles “-. 0 +.
Ford and Career Agent Ross Crozier. © at ae puree 7

3; In the A. M. on 17 April 1963, the writer met ~~.
with Mr, Charles Ford and Mr. Ross Crozier and escorted
both individuals to Room 633 of the WUDUTDONE offices. Ross
Crozier was given @ briefing ret (1) the background of the .-‘.

?UOUTDONE company which included identification of the com- tee
pany as that-which was listed on the door. of Room 633; (2): -
introduced to the published telephone number in the metro<
politan directory; and (3) in general terms, given an in= ~~
sight into the function of the company and fes rather broad *~.
charter rights which logically permitted a company Yepresenta+  .»
tive to concern himself with venture capital, etc. in the ZI wy
ox outside the continental limits of the United States. Crozier \
was further reminded that the cover of WUOUTDONE was not to \
be-used for official purposes; that is{*credit in the area, :
employment references, ete., since this employment was not .
one which afforded sufficient backstop. On the other hand,
he was reminded that the WUOUTDONE cover and its cover office

aoa

7 - SECRET


03

“inl

could be uséd for personal reference in conversation such’. = os
as with his relatives, close acquaintances, and neighbors a eee See
in the area, Mr.. Crozier was quick to point out-that he did
not intend to use the story unless it was absolutely neces=
gary and that the main purpose of the cover and the office
for the present would be to give him four walle, a typewriter,
and a phone where he could ca out his assigned work for

SAS and when and if necessary give a plausible explanation -

of temporary employment to friends neighbors, etc. Mr.
Crozier was, not to leave any classified material in the offices
and stated that he would exhibit the utmost of discretion :
when hig day's work was completed, checking desks, drawers,.
floors, etc. In this vein, he also acknowledged his responsi-
bility to maintain good phone security when and if ‘he-has a ‘
need to contact his SAS-Case Officers on a sterile line. Ross
Crozier was given the office key to Room 633 and instructed

to call his Case Officer should ‘he need additional support
direction and/or instructions regarding his use_of,(WUOUTDONE
cover facilities. Crozier advised that he pers ly was very ..
appreciative for the facility made available to him and would;
exhibit the utmost of discretion in utilizing the assigned’ ame
space and cover facility. - eee :

4... “Prior to the actual brief: of Ross Crozier and

Charles Ford, 1t was agreed by Mr. Gaines, Mr? Mr.

and the writer, that considering the circumstances

ing the limited use oe office by Crozier,
a briefing ofthe cleared and’ witting law firm members con-
nected with(WUDUTDONE)was not believed necessary. However, it
was further agreed that should Crozier's continued use of :
this cover indicate additional backstopping would be advisable,
appropriate adjustments would be made which in turn may well
include a limited briefing of one or two key cleared and wit-.
ting legal personalities. Hee :

>

5. This memorandum will also serve to ¢ verbal
briefing afforded Mr. Gaines, Mr. and Mr. [lim the
ee 33

P, M. on 17 April 1963.

Yc

—— AT J. u
Security Officer) APB/DODS -

Distribution: i :
Orig & 1 = 00DS/Security Project file.

Dejeoow SECRET]

DODS/Support -

foo tet pet
bes
