# 104-10227-10170

## Page 1

104-10227-10170

DISPATCH

PHOCESSING

ar. 110ps

10

-MY DAY

Chief, iD

toy 19-80:08, PRIES

I ROM

PATO MiNd 190301-0

$6,172.8

Chief of Station, JMNAVE

PASSAVOY/Mr. Hurwitch/AMbub-1 Neetings and their repercussions

ACTION REQUIRIO AILMENCES

P-i-I-C-11- I-T-·

1. Under separate cover we are forwarding the following papers

dealing with AHLUD and meetings of MndUD-l, Theodore Y. PASSAVOY

and Mr. Hurwitch:

A. Memo for the record (unnumbered), 2 November 1961

B. Memo for the record No. 5, 2 November 19f.1

C. Memo for the record lio. E, 3 November 1961

D. Report fron ANCLATTEH-1

k. Statonent by Coordinator General of 30 liovember Movement.

2. WAVE reaction to questions raised in memos 13 as follows!

Thera 13 no resson for us to subsidize the "Diario Las

Americas" in order to furnish the mild gratis publicity in the

local colony.

B. Daily personal expenseg on

tours should be kept down

to approximately $15 a day as there has been much critleism of

lavish living on these tours in Latin erica.

We shall suggest to Ar-UD-l that a pilot radio program

once of twice a wook be started over sit in lew Orloans to deterning

1ts effect in Cuba and Latin America.

We shall keep ANöUD-1 Informed of

all future tours

undertaken

by affiliates, but no detailed expose

of past operations

will be given.

CUPY

MASHICA

St-Li-ET

GAIETIME

7 Noy. 6,1

DISPAPCH SILOSTA SNOC MINAICA

UFGA- 25.56

MEAUGUARIEGS TRI MINGLE

LATE UNAICHED

NOV n 7 1961

19-124-2÷/2

---

## Page 2

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-I

"HYBA?

Page 2

E.

Ho agree with ArbUD-l's bellef that the "bulletin"

should not be published in the

WAk area and further believe

that it 1s a publicity arm of the group and as such should come

out of their budget if printed in other countrios.

we do not

consider this in the category öf a separate propaganda project

deserving separate financing.

../:

F. We, are supporting the JUDEC delegation to Caracas.

End of dispatch

ATTACHIENTS

As stated

(USC)

DISTRIBUTION

3 = FhieT, WID

- FIles

w/att. (USC)

S-E-C-R-E-T

•EXBAT

---

