04-t0765-(0030

MEXORANDUM Fos Director,
Federn2 Buresn of Investigation
SUByeOT: .  -Barold CIIRYMELL

1. This Agency is in receipt of informtion dated 7 July
concerning coe Herold CITRYAiL1, bora March 10, 1523, New York,
Bev York, U.3. passport number 743701, including wife Beulah,
ter Marilyn, isered Jamurry 23, 1958, seshington, D.C. Subject
exrived in Copsshagen with his fanily Jue 2) from Moscow claining
duvoluntery detention in the USoR from October %, 1958. sxdject
extered the (sc2 via Ceechoslovakia on Zebrosry 27, 1958 as a tour=
fist but with the intention of establishing resiience and edopting
Soviet citizenship, bubject claimed te we gives employment
Decign in a Therkov fectory vhich mansfactured mine onafety
equipasat, but by the fall of 1958 he hed bocone disillaaioned vith
the Soviet aystea and bogen offerte to retarn to the United states.

2. In an Snterview vith en officer of the 3.3, dubasey in
Copenhages, Subject intimated that tl, GR has attamoted end my |
continne to attacpt to toe hte fanily or their activities to the
detrinent of the United States. fis uife elained to be strongly
anti-Soviet end stated that sho accompaniet ber Imaband only to
preserve the faxily mity. abject vas highly nervous and
ecncerned caly vith his tanediate retarn to the United Stetee, it
vas inpossitis to obtet= « complete or coherent story. Subject
privately arranged for his passage to the United states. fie and
Bis family vere due to arrive in sey York via 5As Might sk 911,
Jaly 3, 6155 A.A. Hie probable destination in the United otates
was given act Mrs, svn CITRYNLL, (mother), 2741 valece Avenue,
Bromt, Kew York; or Abrabem MRCUS (xife's father), 304 2, Flace,
Brom,

: 3. The address of 2741 Velecs Avenue bears a telephone list-
fing under the name of Jecob CITRYNELL, Kingsbridge 7-1517. The
eddrese 304 & Place 1a probably 0 Lcho Place vhich bears a tele~
phone listing unier the name of A. ‘URCUS, CIpress 4-123].

4. The records of thie office reflect that one Abraham HART5,
“born 22 Vebrunry 1687 ia Serejas, Lithmnia, epriied for a U2.
vies at the American ambacay in Nexioo City during the ronth of

Sicnef. ” arf 22r4/P
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1 anemia teeny

|
|

SSpoyeniceinies, Mal)

eines tty

SNueaaees



}
-
i
i

~ oucakT

f

Jemaary 1952. Purther information vas not avatleble t¢ positively
identify this individual vith Abrahen MARCTS, subject's fatherin-lav,
identifiable informe’

The records of this office reveal an
@f the other individuals named herein,

5. This Agency requests that the reste of eny investigntion
ly your Dureen be made eveilahle to ue, We would be pleased to give
aay assistance necessary, incloding joint participation in the de-
Wrlefing of subject in precise details as jis experiences in the USSR

end bis contests vhile abroad.

6, Further information forthooning frea Copenhagen will be nade

available to your Burean.

7%, ‘The information contained herein is known to the Department,

of State,
FOR THE DEPUTY DIPSCTCR (PLANS).

v/15 July 1959

(-37306) 7 July 1959

scuiET

