id 01721034

Nie mereneprmanen imines sy

Bac’

i Usa Cnly

: : Do Not Repreduce

SECRET
ao
am Tonabaaas

3n6-2- (6ST
B& afefe eoleefft4 Cpb2- (6)
aOfled
Clef, 9 April 1957
Chiet of suattoa
STATIUM/OPERATIONS

1, Subsequent to reosipt of s brief memr.adum (incl 2) fron
“rs Gramt G, muaeer, Chief of the Political Seetion, regarding Pulbright
Fro fes, Ye contact wth Grigory Yo. COLGR, Killiker was asked
by. th fange for Professor (HXGMT] to call at the ODACID in-
stch lat hes bo could be debriefed in detail,

ow

2, *refesser(§ friend ef Uilliker, is a Russian speaking reesarch
roholar whose interest {9 19th century Russia, He 1s engaged in post-doctorate
research at the Slavia Studies Departmmt of tho University of Kelainkt under
« Puloright otipaad, In oarly Pebrury be end his vite mado a trip to theo.
Soviet Union unter the auspices of Into: at their cun_expense, (RECHT s
adiress in Holsiaki 1e[Hictalahdoakatu 18°C 89 (tel: 33785), an apartaent
bullding owned ty try Jona MURMIMEN, husband of [YOBRACK/1"s) Fimish tutor,
and « wealthy Relsioki shipping man. It_yia MrSMURKINGS sho recosmended the
KAL-VALA Travel Ageney through witch acifl arranged ‘te trip to the USSR.
(hvaet Consulate offielals have discouraged the ues of this agency to Russia-
hound Amorieane for mistated reasons.) ;

oe
J. On the afternsca of April 4, Professor [izGrt} at Williker's request,
cvtled at the latter's office where he was introduced’to Jana P. Kiedline
vhom Hillixer generoaaly presented 22 OD.CID's Brssian expert. After thanking

OCNECM for giving us Rie tim, Kichline took him to her oun office and obtained
report.

the enelosed

ob
OMe ws not o[Eodeater-duration courtanip by the Soviete saintly
becuuse(RuiT}eboee it that way, st the end of the iaterview, be sald that
he had consulted eeveral tines with Ale wife end hat indeed debated whether or
not earry on the game, Then ho pointedly asked Kiehhine, “Could you toll me
in just wast way I ooald have been of help hed I continued?” Lishline
offered tuo reasons: one, it wuld have aided OD.CID in knowiag end oumparing

pode 0: of tha Soviets in their appresebes to Wectersars (inarioang,
fa Pat Were in Neleink!; ani two, if the eurtahip pereioted until be

SECRET ;

&


22

Cre «

SECRET aoa

had left Pinlasd, it might beve led to the discovery ef Soviets who woald
pler up the entast elecware, Should the Soviets have decided on a long
range poriod of ealtivation, Citctt\ tnowgnt over there two reasons, adiing,
‘Tt euprose the possibility of dafeet'on 1a always there, too —

way," but said that be did net regret having brokea eff his relstions with
YUE! aad VORONT! eines be was bere to concentrate on his own wary aad did
not care to beeams tawlved in any otter type of activity, partiealarly
involving ¥-0 type Soviets whoes interests were obriosely professsom)
along iaaase line,

oO!
So[ RCH repeatedly cemented, “itat siuld the Soviets pastbly wast
fro we’ ena“it was appareat frou tho eanversstioa that be me unaware of
approaches te other individuala in the edieetional field with the

excsptien
of *rofesror[ArtiaF Lowi ATT) whom ops ‘oringing up in his ccaversstions,
He sek Lut readily offered the informetion

no questions re, Toa, 7
weich he hed heard from OUR in sa bith detail aa he could recall. He seqaet
curprised that COUS kept referring to this individual and appeared to osarch
for s comment fron & ling, sien he mentioned OOLUB's astonieheat at receiving
a letter writter ae, mR) froa the States. Since Kighline as unavare of
the lett-r, she merely asked whether COWUB bad alaborated on its contents,

which ne nad not.

6, Tt was[foSMt'9 Lnpreesioa that COUB was ech core tape rtact then
his. diplonstie rank implied becsuse of his air ond his dealnosring behavior
toward VORONTH ead hie iaferiere at the Congulste, fe aloo caid that
CLR wis am indiveal of sere this average cumning, bets in conversation
and sctioa. Purthermere, he is a reasonably young ma (37. bave bad £0
many important Iron Cartain postes as a matter of fact,(i doglared, te
had volesd this impreesioa te COLUB following a random on past poctat
“Tou must bo gn iaportent maf" to which OOLUB replicd Jomlarly, "leah,
yeah, wxry impotiat At eny rate, fra hie Hyer rank oa the diplenatio
List end from/nsort(@ Geseription, ha does appear a Uittle higher level than

ARQRBSTOY who aovoelated ud th Jom il, BDDOSOE,

A Since (QED appeared tohave held Als ow in nis verbal bedgerings
with CLUB and WORONIN ant sings ho left littlo dawbt ca the part of these
two Soviets that bo was intelligent enough to asileipete their motives,
neither has attengted to get in tourh with hia elas tho ovening of Nach 4

am thay accused Hin of subeitting to ea"imeriocen Iron Curtain" for deolariag
that under Ube eiramstances ho could not be their friends,

8. Professor uPottored to call KiLiiker immediately if the Soviets
attempt to renew their matest.

og
9. Another Palbrighter, Dr. [OLfred LIVIN) alee a research scholar in
Rus .tan history, will leave for tho USS oa (pril 4, It will be intercoting
to learn vhother or not he, too, will be contactad and by whom, eines his
fame lnnlies an etiaiasl bucterouod for whieh TORII! hee openly end on many
oscsnions expressed his distaste, y

SECRET

Jose Py Eledling
taal: 2 <
Jtateftiutiomt Yo wh: 2 = far 2 ‘aad



22
SEE, he Bell vofaruadz4i3
page 1
% 9 Apr 1957

ob
Interview vith Frofessor[favid #cijon  Aprih 1957

1. At the end of Jaauary after making prolimtoary arrangements and

filing eatgytea fom through the KALEVALA ‘travel Agency in Holsinkt,
Professor [MACK and hie vite vore Instructed to call at the Soviet Consulate
to casck on the progress of their vicas. Mr. OOLUB vas the first official to
vnom they vere referred; he seemed to knov in advance all the details of their
proposed trip an viat they really wanted. OOLUB said tmt the visa wasn’t :
yeedy but asked that they cone back on the folloving Tuseday. GOLUB did not i
speak English and ested if (t yould bo all right, vith [ise to speak through .
a Yrench interpreter. When! Tdfloaid that he spoke Rusaisa, QGLUB‘'s interest : ,
perked up apd, he began to chat quite freely. GOLUB then changed bis mind
Per taud (ENGR that be vould Tix bin up vith @ visa right then and be vould i
not have to come back the folloving Tuesday. After the procedure vas com- !

i pleted, ant (EECIft] and his wife got up to leave, GOLUB said: "Do coma back i

: after you get back and let me kno vhat you dink of your trip.". At this point
be mentioted that another Professor, (Arthur LOHWATER) @ person for who he had

a very bigh regard, bed taken a similar trip to the goviet Union pot too long {

ago. Be said that mich to his eurprice he had received a letter from .
f ‘after His return to the States. Be then related a sad. story concerning r

: CLUABATING vho, be said, bad bean choven ae a representative to a mathematician's |

i Congress in ths, , but hia firm wouldn't cough up the monay for Wgjoe
trip. Since BRCHT}dic not know(OMVATER) be wade no comment, @nd he and his

: wife left the Consulate. Ow

i w
2. on the morning of February 3, (Gif) and his vife left by train for
' Moscov where they spent 4 days. Thoy then vent to Leningred for threo days
‘ani finally camo back via train to Gvleinkt. (itis) mentioned only one incident |
‘of cote - in Leningrad - concerning telephone books. Ra said he had proateed '
i ‘a frient in the States that if be hed a chance he would call the friends friend |
im Leningred and pasa greetings. When be asked for 6 telephone bock in
Leningrad, he vas told that they bad all been lost, Ho one sppeared to be
belpful in locating one for him, end, finally, decided to try to tribe
the guide into getting him one, The giide vent into @ closed cabinet in the
hotel lobby and produced one...an old 1951 edition. /EEcHt called the mmber
appearing alongside the friend's name eit a voice anovered on the other end.
He did not o) tobe the gentleman vhon[ Be was calling but said he
wmew the man; wes trying to get in touch with, that be vag well, ote.) |
etc., but that be wasn't available. The call ended there ons (Gace) eta not |
6

press the mtter further.
1

a
3. A week after (inci a return (February 19), he and his wife decided
to atop by the Soviet Consulata to give GOLUB their impressions of their trip.
: A nary Gogrman vee there thie tine ‘There vas no previous call announcing
that fand hie wife vere coming to the Copsulate - they Just stopped in.
GOLUB appoared ‘very pleased to seo thea. counted the pleasant especta
of bie trip and said that ho ent his vife enjoyed {t very much. After a bit
of chit-chat about the trip, GOLUB asked to meet HECHT) again...Bow about that
sane night at the Adlon Restaurant? Profeseor(HECET) said politely that he
cor

Shunk



we

SECPET

page 2

vould like to eee hin again, but perhaps the Palace Restaurant vas more
convenient, ani they arranges! to met at 3 o'clock that aight (Pebruary 19)
Qt the Palace Hotel. OOLUS stated that be vould bring along the Cultural
ttache because be spoke Eiglish and thus vould be able to talk to
HECHT 's) wife [(H'gywife does not speak Rusaisn.)

owe OW

4, the night of 19 Fetruary, 8 very snovy night,(HJand bio wife appeared

at the Palace Rotel at eisht o'clock, @. was there alone. 0 excused the
Cultural Attache (Turi 3.) who bad another engagemint and could not
come, G asked if{E/vould not prefer a private dining room. “(if}replied, "As
you Like” and they took @ private dining room. @ appeared 10 @ good mood,
‘as very witty. He talked about his vife who ves in the bospital and blamed
the Finnish climate, He sali na did not like the climte, the country or
the Finna and added, "My job here is to fini @ few pearls anong svinel”
Dinner vent on till 1 a.m. - covering a discussion of politics, economics,
Das Capital, Soviet-Anericen foreign policy, American foreign policy end the
Hincarian situation. OOLUB's statement on Hungaryi “Bungary is evon a greater
tragedy for us Russians than. the Hungarians. I've lost a great friend who vas

Killed in an attack, The poor Humgarians had to call in the Russians. As long
as the Americans have bases all over the world, ve have to come in lest anarchy
occur and the Americans come in." He was very down on the Aoerican Bubassy,
“We Russians have a beautiful Exbassy; wo have many gatherings; ve invite
Americans, but they are alvays busy, You have an Iron Curtain here. Bs pb
vas also equally dow on USISt y "They are always lying.” QG@WB queried [Mas

to the amount of X's stipend. CBitota hin eiuce it vas open knovledge:"| Hjlater
offered to pay the check (10,000 Finmmarks), but GOLUS refused to let him touch
it. On Stalin, GOLUB's only coment was: "Stalin is the,tragdy of Russia.”
All through the dinner, GOLUBta eyes continually, strayed to| HECH?'s/ vite, and
be paid ber omny courtly complizents through/EECti] Be spoke Finnieh to the
waiters. At about 0100, they left the hotel restaurant and GOLUB heeded for

the $5 trolley which he said would take him hone. Before they parted, hovever,
be tcok tvo tickets to the opera Boris Gulonoy out of bia pocket and presented
then to the (ERRET'S} complinents of VOROMIN. [icHs}accepted the tickets.
- OW

5. On February 21 at the presentation of Boris Gutonoy, the (Eaeer'g vere
mot by OOLUB vbo shoved thea to their seats right beside his ovay\ A boy
eitting on,the other side of thea kept ataring at OLUB ani tool Bac until
fialiy (i ffjeaid, “Do you knov vho this boy is vho keeps ataring at ust”
@ boasted that it wae his business to knov people, and that thie boy vas a German
kid in the employ of AERO. During interntssion, GOLUB called VOROMIN and in
insolent tone of voice directed hin to join then.clIotroductions were mde.
VOROMIN spokes English. After the performance, (HOCHE) who had deoided that
this should perhaps be the last meeting, hastily thanked his hosts and started
to leave. OOLUS ignored his gesture and quickly suggested a valk. WORE
joined in at thia monent. Vhen[HRCIff]besitated, GOLUB taunted, “What's fe
untter, are you afraid of being eeen in public vith ual" At this, /HICRT gare
in, @od the four started ona short evening stroll. Before thay parted agnin,
VWOROKIE said, "I vould love to bave you,cone over to my place amd mect my wife
and little daughter,” and asked for/H's jtalephona mmber. ative nen-comittal

OG

rea |


page 3

6. Qn February 27, VOROSIN called (KacHi] and, speaking Erglish, reiterated
Ma ous invitatioa, suggesting a diane? on March 2 (Saturday), When
‘the (W‘@ refused, pleading another VORORIN suggested the following
Yonday” (derch af at 6130 p.m, vhich the(f'efaccepted. On Monday the{B' afcaliet
at the WORONIN's address (Ldanrotsgites 18 D 52). The apartaent ves very
glocey...@ television had been turned on to station Tallin.
remarked that it ves bad for the V's little girl. Mra. V let this go by vithout
retort. brinke vere brought in - votka for the men and tokay wine for the
wonen, After an hour or 0 of getting acquainted vith V's vife ani child,
OLB apveared nu stayed for dinner. Mra. V vas reatless all the tino GOLUB
vas around, (ABCHF])sald that he had vorn a stick pin in his lapel and
Ms wife had worn # large dinner ring, just in case they had to defend hve
te Gale bed already begun to be nervous.) During coffee, OOLUB es!
to relate to them the Life of an average Anorican. (Bjtried to tell the life of
an overag: Bev York business mar ani both VORONIN and GOLUB ecemed interested

- gpd impressed. GOLUB brought up the subject of the atomic bomb. He asked vhy

the U.S. bed dropped the, boa on Japan. “You vanted to keep us avay from that
part of the vorld!" (Ei¢iJettempted to give unbiased ansvers. Both V ant 6
became quite vociferous and excited during this conversation. GdLUB began to
refer to hie vatch. Be said his wife vas expecting him and at about 2130,

after a short private consultation vith ¥, be left. Hovever, before he took
Yeave, bo said to RECHT: “our talks vere so intersting; we'll have to go

for a veekend trip souevhere Lar) near future, and ve boys must get together
for a 8’ hh ‘time soon. ‘This vas an intentional exclusion of

Mra. eae) [ater emen invited OOLUS to vieit the (HBcfHS7 but cOLUB refused
the Tavitation and departed. VOROMIN then came cut Vith another invitation to
the (meer 'gtS viert the VOROMIN's again. At this point [itin'}felt the tine

hed com: fo end this one-sided gam. Be told Mr. VORONIN that he bad been

very pleased with his trip to the Soviet Union, that the impressions he had nov
of the country and people and the V's and Kr. @ vere nice ones - so far, but if
things went along as they seemed to be going, this impression might turn into

V vas very put out. Mra. ¥ wekly put in, “Your people aro just like

@ bad cope.

our people, I understand." V edded “Ye surely will see you once before you q
leave.” [ECE Yaaid he hoped eo, api-aince 1t vas 2300 hours then, thefmacerta]O
left. 1) ‘

7. Gbbreata that Mrs. V had told hin her age was 33; VORONIN's 37.
Mre, VOROXIH come to Central Asia frou Hungary when a small child of 5.
‘Sbe vas brought up in Russia ani met VOROXIN when they vere both pursuing
a career in the arts - she ballet ant he the violin.Ol(HEcRs surmised that her
father must have been mixed up in the revolution at that time and was perhaps
in exile.) VORONIN admitted to membership in tho CP, but his wife shrugard
her shoulders and said that she vas not a member, Bhs displayed little caution
in ber remarks about the Soriet Union ani appeared dissatisfied with things

ia general.

|. _At(Rucer’a) repry to hie query es to vbo ovned the apartment in vhich
tna(HECHE}s Lived, GOLUB asked, “Io it John MURMIMEN?®, and added, “Bs is an
paierstant ing capitalist.”



eran ry
: oLune ned
ob

9. (Haru described OOUM os a man vith a great sense of Inmor, very
quick, very sharp and vitty. Ho. bas a great senee of mor ant constataly
refers to himself as "I'n a Ukrainian.” He is a child payebologist. He bas
served in Vienna, Warsav, Budapest, Bucharest, Sophia. Be is about 37, short,
vell-fed (stocky), black hair straight ani trushed back, big flashy enile,
lots of vhite tecth (may be false), brovn eyes, very well-dressed. Re bas
an English tailor in Helsinki and eppears each tine in a change of vardrobe.
Be vears double breasted suits - Western style. His main sport is skiing.
Be bea a strong poverful hanisheke, piercing artificial glance, is very =
excitable, flirtatious, and the I-knowit-all type. Be loves to eat and
Shake his heat frou sida to side vhen he talks, Be is about 5°3-1/2"
with glistening, clean-shaven skin, He looks like a Ukrainian peasant, but
his conversation implies that he. is well-oducated and knovledgeable on
diplomtic business, Marxisu, and current events involving the Soviet Union. His
khowledge of life beyond the borders of the doviet Union is meagre. His table
manners are fair.

io
10, Since the last ‘woot ing, (hice pet GOLUB once by accident on the street.
GOLUB was alighting from a taxi vith fv ladies, and upon catching sight of
O}[HRCHE, he appeared flustered end in a burry to git avay. Unable to avoid an
encounter, he merely asked vhat was nev and sportively, but soft-tongiedly
said, “I'll give you a bribe not tell ny vifa.” ‘The two ladies appoared to
be Russians.

SECRET .
