104-10331-10094
ob

’

SECRET

2 August 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SA/DCI
Office of the Director

FROM: John F. Pereira
C/Historical Review Group/CSI

SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records

moe
ee 3
Per your request, attached are the two documents
referred to in the JFK Assassination Board's letter to
the Director of 31 July 1995. The sole remaining issue
concerned the release of the cryptonym “LIENVOY”. All
other issues have been resolved. We are discussing with
the DO the question of whether to appeal. In my view, we

are unlikely to appeal.

Sonn F. Pereira

Attachments

SECRET


7 ee

staoy BE sic.

[34 SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIESED

‘ADVAKCE COPY,

DD isevce Chacervee Civses

|
|

DIR CITE ™

SeBPGE- C PFLOR 6 y :
Fme of Up ener
L Cited

EP(RTED 15 JUN 65 THAT UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN

Z AREAS FROM

SPLAVING FUTUOU CALLED CUBAN AMBASSADGR

IF SILVIA DURSN

ED TO CUBA.

SOMAN AGAIN &

RECORDS CEFSICER STAMP
tr

MALL

2. PAUCHING TAPE.

baat 20 sp is j j
SECHET

I
”

»

7 ’ , i

R.O. #1 = Unit 2S i
Note: If destruction, cite

Document \ (10-944 reasons and cocrdinate

syepslate.

for FOIA Review on SEP 976 fA ra

fi
J

oe) O7- AE GAYS



13-00000

59. ject - 102. amg a

7

©

ocuneet inser 10-945
for FOIA Review on
es

SEP 76

3

for @aruntol POF —

ahd roa re Sob}.

Tee Se; _
was picked ap. Aa

BON AGILE
18-Tan 6S



13-00000
Lf Lf O9 rz a00P LOIS Fe ¢
* = é igseerooaasl Asie Deersaaie i

‘DISPATCH
° Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
INFO. -
teva & A
Chief of Station, Mexico city)
‘SUBJECT
GPFLOOR/Transmittal of ftxawvor] rape

‘ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION; None
REFERENCE: MEXI 3832

N

Transmitted herewith is the tape mentioned in referenced cable.

Attachment ¢ Bocument Number 1OU-945,

As stated h/w ian
Distribution: TPO Review ah SEP 1976
7S C/wmD watt b/w ;

4 - Files

CS COPY

‘CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

EMMA 26394
SEgray
Lp



13-00000

ATTACHMEM TO HMMA 26394

TO: Chief, WH Division _
FROM: Chief of, Station; wxie City

' N
“
N

N
S
>
~

( cemta ins tope o&
Comversat, on)

attest HMA -BL39Y

