arn |

“The following :r “one of a series containing personality:
information provided. "the source and includes supplemental
information from: the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any. of praea sf
the andividuals mentioned in the personality reports without first .
_checking with. this: Agency. - 7

1. Source. net ‘Moises CARTAYA Moltalvo in the Department of : ]
Investigations of the Police in 1959. He does not know where
CARTAYA could be at the Peer time but assumes ‘that he is: not

in Cuba.

2.” soi
150 pounds has a medium build, and. is a Negro.

oe Headquarters Comments

1. Attached to a’ document dated 19 October 1960, was a copy
of a directive: issued by the Departamento Tentpico..“_ ae
Investigaciones (DTI) listing courses to be given by the
Department and members of the police. who were to attend
the courses. Included on ‘the list of students was Moises

A. CARTAYA Montalvo. Hl

2. In a report dated 3 May 1961, a fairly reliable source /
identified Moises CARTAYA Montalve as a mexber of the 3 - E i
Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical 7 :
Department of Investigations ~ DTI) of the Cuban National. Ab

fs

d CART YA was born about 1934, 05 1935,

$ Revo}utionary Police. f
4 y ane
3 3 3
‘2 SECRET 2
1 NO FOREIGN DISSEM 1
wate Tora Taanr Trav Ta Taga, TEES Tose
NCSO_# _ISNS

‘Hote: Figld dieribution Indicated by“,

CUAL a
R&A “Hite

316K

{ :
verscewi/Sa 7 G1), WE 1 (2), Ci 4, RID? cea =]
Bol-None 9-6-1

ron xO 4 pean ere peewian s enetinse
