104-10436-10066] ees

» s DIPECTOR

ay

7 :
ron: FE 8 (TEMPO FOR FE SLOTTED AT we 24. JUN 64 (DM)
so CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, Cl, C1/Og, VR

!ONFIDENTIAL 2500242

ORIORITY DIR CITE 9297 +y-
1. POVARSITY/7 HAS RECEIVED

OPES

TELEPHONED POVARSITY/3 ON 24 JUNE RE THIS REQUEST, AND
“gS WILL LEND ITS WEIGHT TO AN EFFORT TO MAKE SURE THAT POVARSITY/3
i

LAYS HANDS ON AN EARLY COPY FOR SHIPMENT TO POVARSITY/7.
2. WE UNDERSTAND THAT MAJOR WIRE SERVICES ARE PREPARING TO

TRANSMIT 12,000 SUMMARY OF WARREN COMMITTEE RELEASE. WHAT Ni |

ANTS IS THE ENTIRE RELEASE, WHICH IS RUMORED TO BE ABOUT

589,020 WORDS IN LENGTH.

AS SELECTED A TEAM OF TRANSLATORS}

HO-WILL BE PUT TO WORK ROUND-THE-CLOCK TO PREPARE THE RELEASE FOR a
UBLICATION IN ITS NEXT ISSUE, WHICH WILL BE ON SALE O/A 5 JULY. 4
23 EXTREME INTEREST IN WANTING TO HELP THE POVARSITY/3- z
POVARSLTY/7 TEAM "BEAT THE CROWD” ON THIS RESTS ON THE FOLLOWING: lg
Al CAME TO POVARSITY/7 WITH.SPECIFIC STATEMENT . Ss
201-269248

CONFIDENTIA

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

i Ss 7 6 L dequinn yuawncog:



13-00000

MESSAGE | CONFIDENTIAL ||. w#4e—.

THAT WOULD LIKE TO DEPEND ON JAPANESE FIRM IN SECURING THE RELE

RATHER THAN ON FOREIGN WIRE SERVICE OR ON QKFLOWAGE. IF WE CAN

| COME THROUGH IT WILL GREATLY. ENHANCE POVARSITY FERN'S REPUTATION.

B. PUBLICATION OF RELEASE | HIRE IT"S “STILL

HOT" WILL GO FAR TOWARD ERASING MISIMPRESSIONS CREATED BY RECENT.

SPATE OF. "WHODUNIT” TYPE NAGAZINE ARTICLES AND BOOK MANUSCRIPT

DEALING WITH KENNEDY ASSASSINATION, WIRE SERVICE SUMMARIES WILL
GET COVERAGE IN NEWSPAPERS, BUT WE HAVE CHANCE TO GET THE ENTIRE
RELEASE INTO PRINT, IN A VEHICLE THAT WILL REACH MOST OF JAPAN'S

oa
| INTELLIGENSIA. ryid S PREPARED TO PUT ON SPECIAL

ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN TO ANNOUNCE THEIR PRINTING OF RELEASE.

Dochussay ypipy, semen os

*
£
x
rs]
a
&

CO (i ante: Daa Nia ae lar ne

