Tes Lori {2/6

ea! : : RETURN TO CiA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

24 March 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD :
/
SUBJECT: Meeting With fivvstaB/1] on 19 March 1970 ¢

U

1. PRODUCTION: I phoned (WusLaB/1] on 17 March and we 3
chatted for a time on recent news from Bolivia. A very pro-
minent newspaper publisher and his wife had, been killed by
a bomb delivered in a package. |] W/
Ambassador Sanjines who said that the military forces in the
cabinet around General Valencia were more inclined to take
action to restore “law and order“. There;were various rumors
about the motivation of the bombi Ww iced the
similiarities to the murder o: a
one month ago.

2. On the morning of,19-March by prearrangement I went
out to his house. His davthters who has grown [quite attractive},
let me in and said that [her father) was waiting Tor me upstairs:
We had a generalized conversation about history and about
current events in Bolivia. He thinks that the civilian members
of the cabinet are on their way out and that the military will
replace them, ith civilian technocrats of their own choosing.
He draws pees Sth the government of Villaroel, which was
overturned by the mob. g That’ government also had civilian
elements [including W/l's father. They were forced out and
eventually, the government was overturned in violent fashion.

3. Plans: I void fwstan/i] that I would phone him before
next 25 March and set up'a time for a meeting on that day. We
will then go over the psychological jera.

I
4. Medical: The specialist i xamined W/1Jon
Gs March] and reported that he was making a satisfactory recovery.
He expects to go back again ing 15 days. He can take off his
[Pin? point] eye shades on[23 Marth]

naar ase if : FLOYD B.MCCULLY
ql

i es Copy
[eeseré] des

Hie ;

Frewras medeay

