# 104-10128-10008

## Page 1

104-10128-10008

3:. Octoiner. 1960

HEMORANDUM FOR: Chlaf, Security Research Stall

FROM

SUBJECT

: D. Do Stevens

: American Defectors

Reforence i9 made lo a veral rogueal to you from te DC/OS for iD-

formation rejarding any American citisens ho have delecied to the USSR,

Red China, or olher Saiollite countries duriny the past eighteen moache

other than Bernon F. MITCHELI. and Williaro H. MARTIN, and flve other

defectors rejarding whom MI. OTEPKA of the Stato Depuitmen: Security

Vitico already has information fi-e. Robert koward WEBSTER, EE-1B854;

Le. HarVeY GINALD, MS-11169; LibeTO HICCIAKDELLI, MS-8295: Vlad-

imi- SLOBODA, 15-10565; and Joseph DUTKANICZ, SiS- 10724).

acurly filos raflecs tha: the subjects of the attachad mamoranda are

ciditional American citisens who havo defected to the soviets or ahsir

satetlices during the past eighteen montha.

Several of the above referred to deloctors have been of interest to ClA:

LIOTIeTI LEO NORTHRUP, 48923, was a siail emaployes af this Agancy

from say 1951 1o May 1955.

A more detailed dummary than that included

in the nitached group has boon prepared on him.

Robert Edward WEBSTER, EE-18852, and Nicholas PellI

19439, maTe anujeerod 0O/C rogueats on 29 May 1959 and 15 June 195%,

rospecilvaly, with a view to leir being debriefed upon their retarns from

vialto to Rusala. Nelther was Interviewed by ClA, eithar baíors or sitas

thoir viette.

With selerence to Nicholas PETRULll, it la noied that his sossia.

Michsol Thomas SCHIRALLI, SSD 84258, l8 a fOrMEr CLA CONSIS 317-.

ployos, who mao abnignod toL

HOPSTUL and also took part in PBSUCCESS. An of Jaly 1934 ha mes ta

de dabtialod as ho chose lo return lo privato employment, SCHIRALLI

adreed during an IAD interview in diay 1953

SCHIRALLI was born and raised on Long Jaland; and sabaegaeasiy was

employed in various places on Long loland. From Fabruary so April 1950,

ho was employod by a IY fire In Valley Strears, Long laland;

lar she dime of hia inter

rioT. PETRULLI ma employed al a shedi motal borior in Vallay Siresro,

---

## Page 2

-!.

es the to ho loft the 11. S. for Esosta 1n 199% and his five brothero live es Lone

Latante

mEn: (prior so lla delection to lo sovie: Union, Ma dant Germany, en 1 August

1960} to the 91810 Dilitary Animlligence Oroup la Franklurs, Gormany, (EGIS Center).

Mera ho hod cenact viti at lossi one representadre of ClA and una in & posietes lo

S532

taro lemmod the soonlicios ol CLA pornonnal al lhe ECLE Caller.

WIlLBE A. MORGAN IRS JeeR el imerent lo Security so that os 27 March 1949,

C1/ Où regueriod a chech on hit., In connecilos olth/bio contemplatod noo by the

§Caban Door/WH for parposen el centact and dobrialinz. Morevor.

aH, cancelled

Tea request as of 5 May 1959.

Eduerd NIXUN on l Sapiembor 1960, apponched a CLA agent la Freddy"s Bar to

Damazene and unsiged him in comeruation, (ollowing which our agon fernd linocli

under pervasilmaco. Tho surreillance continued lor ino daya, dier thiEh per dadas

moIpprenched in freddy'o lar by an unknown G-2 offleer whe soled bion aben:

NIXON: and thereafter the curvelllasce cenned. (The owner of Freddy far had

ropOrIod MIXON In Col, an he salo he une raining his bodinees. )

wallo dolaerora lo Case and tho VAS may nol technically so dolectors to soviol

Serellite countries, ll moorn a close lint, and the names of such know deloctors

in the poor elphings menthe baro beon lo dudod lu lie nonorantur.

M. D. Stevent

---

