# 104-10188-10041

## Page 1

104-10188-10041

TO

DISPATCH

Chlef; WA Division

tEFO

FRICHA

deserte. "

SECRET

PROCISSING ACTION

MARNIO PIN INCARIG

DESENSITIZED

EX DO NOEING FIQUALO

pét CSN 49-43

#ICHOE ILM

AN LiVi

An X

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

OLIFEAT ProsTess Report/July 1963

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

BI

Ref: HAMA 21755

The fallowing report in submitted in accordance with CSPB-5-52-6-1

ection V, paragraph 2 (d) (1)

A. EXPLONTATION OF LEADS

(1) LIFEAT/Soviet

LIPPAT has continued Ita

dally coverage of the home phones of tro known Soviet Intelligence Officers.

This has enabled the

Intereated Stasion officer to monitor the daily activitios

of these officere including clandestine contacts of one and lately the appar

ent involvement of the other in an affair with the wife of another Soviet

orficial stalloned in Mexico.

(2) LIFEAT/Polish

During the final weeks of

BEKNAVE'& stay In Mexico, LIFEAT provided continuing support to the attempted

approach to BIAVE.

This support included perioda of

"IIve-monitoring" the

target lines to Elve early warning o! BONAVE's exact departure plans as well

as the movements of BEKNAVE. LI'EAT also initiated coverage of the Polish

Comercial Office In support of the Interested Station officer's attempt to

gain more information on that installation and the personnel assigned therete.

Pros: 01014/3021021 8032130902

24.9.3.6

C3 C60551510811008

JUB #

Ho%:

(3) LIFEAT/Cuban

LIFEAT coverage of two

targets related to the AMSTRUT operation are of great in'erest to JWAVE and

Headquarters.

Copies of the processed take from these lines are forwarded

weekly to these customerg.

A recent and exceilent roundup of AMSTRUT-S done

by Headquarters drew heavily on LIFEAT provided Information. This roundup

¿Ivas very vell done and greatly appreciated by the Station.

porting period nothing of interest was obtained from the coverage of the

home of a Cuban Commercial Attache and it la planned to cut this coverage in

the near Niture if it remains unproductive.

SPASS REFERENCE TO

(4) LIFFAT/Ex1le

LIFFAT coverage of ESLARD1

continues to be of interest to both the Sation, Headquarters and

other

Stations sto are connected with FSIARD l's activitieo.

Information con-

cerniry SSLARD-l's planned travel to boir Central America and PAPRIME WaS

fully reported from this coverage.

LIPEAT Information enables the Station

to provide cinely physical surveillance of SSLARD-l which should sive infor

mation of his exact departure date and pade of travel.

DISPATCH STORE AND NUANGES

DATE

1004 22029

27 August 1963

RECORD COPY

T905?

perissacrichit

SECRST O

y 50-0-32,.

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SPCRET /

KMMA - 22039

LIFEAT continued coverage of

has provided

a number of loade for posolblo arent candidates to assess and develop thie

Costa Rican Communiat exile.

(5) LIFFAT/American Communist Group in Mexico (ACOM)

The information provided to the local ODENVY office fron the coverage of

David LUCKER and Charles SMALL, (SMOLIKOFT) 18 most useful to that office

for coverine Ancricen leftlats and Communists who travol to Maxiço.

these travellera continue on to Cibe.

Their contacts with members of ACOM

are of special interest to ODENVY.

(6) LIPEAT /MIscellaneous

As noted in reference the

coverage of a former SMOTH agent la of interest to Headquarters, SMOTH and

the senior ODYOKE official in Mexico.

Recent Information from thia coverage

Indicates that this Individual is continuing In his Iiterary efforts against

LIFFAT, at Headquarters request, has undertaken coverage of two

targets of ZRINICK interest.

Although the coverage has not sa yet been of

sufficient duration to judge the take definitively, one of these coverages

appeare to lave potential in providing Information of interest.

B. PROCESSINO OF TAKE

Processing vorkload of the LIFEAT processor/translator staff remains

neavy, but no backlor, has developed. With the recrultment of LIFEUD-28,

there will be a posalble more equitable divicion of the work for the noted

C. PERSONNEL.

L.IFBUD-28 was granted a POA on 8 July 1963. This agent candidate 18

presently being aasessed. PRQ Part II will be forwarded at the earliest

possible date.

LIPEUD-1 has initiated attempte to expand his commission for investl-

sating administrative personnel of the

(s0e paragraph 2 C

of reference) to include all

would give L-l the access to they

he previously enjoyed as

an "employee of confidence".

ven with the presently reduced access

IFEUD-1 has continued to make a substantial contribution to the success o

6004

c 530

D. LLATSUN

No change from conditions noted in reference.

E. SECURITY

As noted in reference LIFEAT access to the

reduced by the combination of LIFEUD-l's "retirement" and the nev

order" system being implemented by theL

of the present,

LIFEAT has not been adversely effected in any particular incident by the lack

of LIFEUD- 1'g

"protection" of the TIPEATC

Jalthough this constitutes

a continuing danger to the operation. LIFFUDI 1s working toard regaining

the access he preslously enjoyed.

If he is successful LIFEAT'& access to

land partial circumvention of the "work order" system

would be re-established.

Just prior to the reporting period, a telephone work crew disconnected

the LIFEAT lines

routing the Yusoslav Embassy tap lines to the basehouse.

This was done at a point one-half mile fron the basehouse and an equal dis-

tance from the target Embassy, and at a point where the tap routing was

"Jumped" from one telephone central's area to the central arca serving the

basehouse.

nature of

these unusual connections.

therefore disconnected

the tap routing completely betveen the basehouse and the telephone work crew.

$ 754.00019

FASTE

PaGe 90

SOCRET

TWO

+=A:

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRAT/

HNMA-22029

Even If the crew hail then attempted to checkout the routing it would have

been impossible.

No direct damage vas done to LIFFAT as a result of this

discovery but it vas agreed that if posalble LIENVOY should assune the

Yugoslav coverage in the future.

If such will not prove feasible, a cooling

of?

parial vell enaus preo in TIPFAT atremptire to ro-egtablish the noted

coverage.

F. TECHNICAL

No change from conditions noted in reference.

?. The coverage provided by LIPPAT during the reporting perlod totaled

19 separate lines.

A breakdown by target is as follove:

Aleksandr G. SIDOROV

Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV

2.

3.

*, 5, and 6.

7, and 8. AMSTRUT operation.

9. Home of a Cuban Commercial Attache

10.

Home of & Czech intelligence officer

11. and 12. Targets of ZRONICK interest

13.

and 14, ESLARD-1 and related line

David TRUCKEr

16. Charles SMALL (SMOLTKOPP)

18, and 19. Former SMUTH ngent and related line.

During the reporting period a number of memoranda vere prepared by

for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based in whole or in part

• on LIFEAT provided material. One IMM was provided based on LIFEAT material

Distribution::

13 - C/WID

2 - Piles

FORMA

10 * 330

(+0)

fire peed rust

REPLACES PORR

STРN ФІДВА ДІ

CLASS FICATICI

SECRET /

50-6-32/3

DAGE NO

THRFE

---

