104-10334-10234

SECRET _

(amin
Cu By:611637_/
CL REASON: Section 1.5 6
Dect ow: X1

Dav Frm: HUM 4-82

Warren G. suevacile bo
J. Barry Harrelson
CSIHRG
12/19/97 10:30:35 AM
Re: JFK Board Request}

CL BY:(0691596.

CL REASON: 1.5(c)
DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: HUM 4-82

The answers to the ARRB questions will be shared with the ARRB staff on Background Use Only basis. An unclassified
memorandum for the record will be prepared by the ARRB for public. A classified version may be prepared and place in secure storage at

National Archives. Information and any documents will not be cae one proposal is to attribute the
material to the station's files with no date. The Agency will have the opportunity To review the drafts of the memos. To date the ARRB

Staff have been very responsive to our concerns when preparing these type memos.

Original Text of Warren 6. STUETZLER
Original Text of Warren G. STETZLER
Original Text of Warren 6. STUETZLER
Original Text of Warren 6. STUETZLER

cL BY:
(CL REASON Section 1.5

ORY FR:

70: J. Batty Harrelson @ DCI

FROM: Warren G. STUETZLER

SECRET



13-00000

Suarsutaaeete : . SECRET

=" orrice: ~~
a DATE: = = 12/03/97 08:48:13.
SUBJECT: 3\Re: JFK Board Request

CL By:(o69159 )
EL REASON: 1.5ic)
DECL ON: X1

DRY FROM: HUM 4-82

Some followup questions on the ARRB query: How will the answers to the 10 questions be used? Will the answers just be used by the
staff, or will they be made public? {If public, in what form?) What about attribution: will the involenent FT ETEESEEEEEEEEnY
providing the. ‘answers/be made, ‘public? Will the information be attributed{t y, a

Please note that the ‘ore ‘may be.called upon by the opposition-controlled congress in the next couple of weeks or

So to testify in open session about ant iT | This would greatly raise the political profilefof any business we do with
especialy something like the ARRB stuff that might become public.)

Ce: Fredrick C. Wickham, John Pereira @ DCI
Sent on 3 December 1997 at 08:48:13

ce: John F. Pereira
Sent on 19 December 1997 at 10:30:35 AM

SECRET
