104-10119-10112|

DIRECT REPLY PREPARE ‘REPLY _

APPROVAL -

DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION

COMMENT “x25

CONCURRENCE

FILE = 3 {se

INFORMATION SIGNATURE ~:

i immss 237

‘Form 30-4 i (40)
may be used. - U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1955 —O-B42531
RETuR|
Te
Backgroung Use!
© Not Reprodues.



~. Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

‘ro 2 Chief, Security Research Staff, 08 oS pare: 24 January 1961

- ‘

FROM: Chiet/RB/SR5/OS

susyscr: Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.
#23500

rd

Attached is a copy of a cable which was brought to my attention by
Mr. O'Neal, CI/SIG.,..Mr. Horton had requested that Mr. O'Neai check
concerning any information eaters by the Office of Security,

The attached cable indicates that Subject is furnishing Jnformation cere
of a-type, which he should not be furnishing, to certain{t); guayan)
ae ie ie whom he Laedasnad knew during previous aasignoent ia

The cable also appears to raise the question caeeotanas how
Subject could recently purchase. a.$70, 000 home in Washington, -D. Cae =
A check of Subject file indicates that Subject has some ‘outside income - :
since he has written a number of "pocket books" and has certain pees
corporation stocks.

The following Security action is recommended:

(a). ‘Credit checks be conducted on Subject inthe. Washington,
-D. C. area and information obtained in regard to his
Andicated arene -of a home including Gnancial arrangements.

‘Appropriate of icials of I. RC be briefed concerning the’ :
‘dnformation ‘ri (Montevideo) and adiscreetinguiry . ~~
made concerning whether Subject.is making: -othey indiscreet :
remarks and statements concerning his current assignment.

Subject has been a problem in the past and apparently continues to be
a problem. If information can be obtained other than the cable information
which apparently could not be used, it is felt that Subject should be given
at leaist.a strong warning concerning ssidmaahiahaiald remarks and unauthorized

disclosure of information.
Learnt on

Attachment as noted above.

OS/SRS/BLS:15

SEGRET,

IFS



aii CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ©
352 TPN ' *

5 NOVEMBER 1969 |
mayen

[WonTEv Teo]

RYBAT FUDUST . © :

1. Aticane 1 VOLUNTEERED DURING Aa coms

THAT HE HAD JUST RECEIVED LETTER FROM

SAID FAMILY NOW SETTLED WASHINGTON, nave BOUGHT". 78,008. Do
"MOUSE TRACY PLACE, WASH; AND THAT SABIE WORKING ON CL
AN PUBLISHING ANTI-CASTRO NEWSPAPER Mi AMI copy oF wire
iAVGANE 1. 4

O21,
2. ABOUT Two bore AGOLAV.CANE 1 REMARKED TO ODAC 1D

en
AWARE COS HEAD KUBARK / (ont HAVING REPLACED
3. aie 1 ALSO HAS REMARKED —

—
OM CUBAN MATTER, :

\, BOTHCAVCANE 1 1 ‘ano vd ADO 1 CLEARED STATION CONT,
CONCERNED (JHNET, NOR SUFFICIENTLY WELL TRAINED “SECURITY
_-BAIAREMESS KUBARK CONDUCTING OPS AGAINST CASTRO.

5. REQUEST UTMOST DISCRETION INVESTIGATION THIS

COMPLAAT, TO EITHER AGENT COULD SERIOUSLY

