# 104-10086-10398

## Page 1

104-10086-10398

T4-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS!!

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

Declassified and Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2-p÷ 003

SUJECT:

nelay

OSWALD

in sending the first cable about

Much has been written about the delay (by the Mexico

Station)

ins ending the first cable reques ting

name. Lee OSWALD..

It was dis cussed in

case of laziness on

the part of the Soviet case

officer (which

unjust and unnecess ary

and indicates

that Dave

didn't know what he

was talking about).

Normally

the Spanish transcript for the 1 October

convers ation would have been picked up on thesh

Ine Russian language portion

to the Russ ian/ English

translation would have

been returned th

the Soviet case office

the photographic coverage.

the station

before the

camera on the 3rd of October

owing day

as ked for

would not have been

film was still in the

picked up probably on

the 4th, processed and pass eg

Later the fil

but at that time,

roll was completed

taken out of the camera

stay ed in the camera until a full

might take three or four das.

A name trace could have been reques ted on the bas is

of the name alone

but that wasn't the way

Win Scott ran that

He wanted the photographic coverage tied in with the

telephone coverage ..sometimes there-was a U.S. automobile

licers e number.

It was also part of the

"numbers

game" of

justifying a project by the number of dis patches, cables or

reports produced

0000151

SECRET

Copy

lot

SACHET

---

## Page 2

' 14-00000

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET

2 May 1977

SUBJECT: Review of Mexico City Station Files

at the Warrenton Record's Center

1.

On 2 May 1977 Chris Hopkins and Annie Goodpasture

visited the Warrenton Record's Center to review old Mexico

City files in search of additional photographs of the

"unidentified man". We were unable to locate any such

photograpns.

It appears that earlier photographs may have

been destroyed in a purge of Mexico City Station files and

that the folders for the destroyed material were re-used to

forward more recent photographic material to Headquarters

for retention. Following are the Job numbers of boxes reviewed

and pertinent notations re re-use of the old folders:

Job #70-236 Box 1 of 3

LILYRIC Photos

Negatives

I February - 1 March 1968

(Filed in re-used folder,

LILYRIC 1 Aug. 1966 to 31

1 March - 1 April 1968

Back folder - re-use

folder 1 Sept 66

BUCTION PROHIBI

white letter-sized

packages C-1873 - 2031

Front folder

folder 2 Dec

ed

LILYRIC

28 Feb 64

1 April - 2 May 1968

Back foider re-used LILYRIC

folder 2 Mar 64 thru 29 May 64

Front folder re-used LILYRIC

folder 1 Nov thru 15 Dec 66

0000152

Aa

JFK # 056

Copy lof7

Continued

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

14-00000

6

Box #9

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #10

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #11

• Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #12

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Job #73-506

File # 50-6-74/3

Box #1

1 - 361

AEPNSOUCTION PROMIBITED

( LICALLA)

70

Aug

Sept

Oct

Nov

Dec

70

70

70

70

Jan & Feb

Mar & Apr

May & June

July & Aug

Sept & Oct

Nov & Dec

70

70

70

70

70

70

70

Dispatch HMMT) 11,368, dated 17 March 1972. Photos were filed in

re-used subject and "p"' folders (equivalent of subject 201 folders),

indicating contents of "original" subject and "p" files were

destroyed.

Ref (to previous shipment) (HMMA) 40,562, 21 May 71.

000015v

6

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

1 June - 3 July 1967

•Clean folder

3 July - 31 July 1967

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

July - Aug 64

Front flap clean

1 Aug 67 - 4 Sept 67

Clean folder

# Sept - 2 October 196

Clean folder

Clean folder

SUINGTION PROMBITED

1 Nov - 22 Dec 67

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

12 Apr 66 - 18 May 66

Front flap re-used incoming cable

chrono folder 1-31 Jan 65

9 Jan - 31 Jan 68

Front flap re-used LILYRIC folder

1 July thru 31 July 1966

Back flap - clean

Job #70-236 Box 3 of 3

LICALLA Photos

2 Jan - 27 Feb 1967

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder.

5 Nov 62 - 31 Jan 63

0000154

3

Continued

---

## Page 5

14-00000.

it

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Dec 66 - 15 Feb. 67

• 1 Mar - 28 April 1967

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Feb - 29 June 63

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

20 Feb - 31 May 1967

* 2 May 67 - 30 June 67-

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

23. July 63 (Y-1257) to

30 Nov 63 (Y-1308)

Front flap re-used

LICALLA folde

I Sept thru 30 Nov 1966

3 July - 30 Augu

Back flap re

ODUCTION PROHIBITED

folder

19 Sept 64

30 NoV 63

Front flap LICALLA re-used folder

1 June thru 30 June 1967

1 Sept - 27 Oct 1967

Back flap clean

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Aug - 31 Aug 1967

6 Nov - 29 Dec. 1967

Back flap clean

front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1. July. - 31 July 1967

3 Jan - 28 Feb 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 July thru 31 August 1966

Back flap Czech photos re-used folder

Sept - Nov 64

0000155

- SECRET

Continued

---

## Page 6

14-00000

- 5 -

1 March thru 29 April 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA (C)

28 Nov 61 to 10 Feb 62

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Apr to 1 July 1966

2 May thru 19 June 1968

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder (Y-907 to Y-969)

12 Sept 61 - 23 Mar 1962

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Jan thru 31 Mar 1966

N.B. There was no coverage from 19 June to 15 July 1968

15 July thru 30 August 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

23 Nov to 27 Feb 1965

Ob 172-626/36

Contained nothing prior to 1967. Looking for 1963.

Job #70-209

Box #3 (Boxes 182 at Hqs)

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #4

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #5

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #6 •

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #7

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #8

Nothing

pertinent to our search

SECT

0000156

Continued

5

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SEBRET /SENSITI

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

• LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental

basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-

tion received word that the photograph of the "unidentified man" was

being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in-the middle of

the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located

in one of a

row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet Embassy compound.

This site overlooked the back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was. then de-

veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips: LICALLA film was

originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

CE00159

2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

8

---

## Page 8

14-00000

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.

These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

which used late nodel cars and

a panel truck for surveillance. The team

could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of

interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a(unilateral mail intercept operation,

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer. A recruited)

Mexican_agent, who had a semiofficial status, obtained selected letters

from a subagent (employed by the Mexican postal system;

2. ‹Liaison/ Coverage:

Liaisor coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction

of Federal Security (DFS), (With which we conducted Tiaison, was a hip-

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This Ministry

was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

foreigners. Their agents were winks test, and corrupt. (A Station,

officer trained a number of them in-name tracing and travel control. In

01958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

0000160

3

SEGRET SENSITIVE

9

---

## Page 9

14-00000

(Dub/00546

(LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican

JArmy officers.

In 1961, (because of mismanagement by the Mexican prin-

cipals,) the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening

post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also

an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the

joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the LIENVOY listening

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-

bassies in anticipation of possible coverage.

The Station inmediately

disconnected all of the unilateral telephone taps on these Embassies so)

-that they would not be discovered when the Mexicans hooked up their

taps. The Mexicans)soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

Soviet Tines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav

line.

At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of

conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume

for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,

full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

C000161

SECRET/SENSTINE

10

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET SEMSINC

ir a language other

than Spanish or English were taken to another location

for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-

tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations

usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

Station started screening all photographs. However, here again, there

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week

• but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the

technician who was processing the film, did so on a night-time basis.

Further, photographs were not made initially until a complete roll of

film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera

at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused film remaining.

The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to

photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with

foreign license plates. Human

error did occur but generally the agents

were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated

equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed niechanical dif-

ficulties.

Oswald came to the

REPRODUCTION PROUBLED

from a tap of the Soviet line.. It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

0000162

SECRET/SENSITIVE

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

ISEGRET.

1-

10 Feb 77

Source:

Rotes made by A. Goodyasture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Subject:

Background

on liexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Enbassies)

1. Unilateral) coverage. From the time the

(April 1947) (by Bill Doyle) until ai

PRODUGTION PROHIBITED

was opened in

Scott as COS in 1956, Charles

Anderson III (still in IA/Ha) had developed a support apparatus to te

exoloit leads from the Soviet Enbassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT).

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

team and a mail intercept operation.

a. Phone taps were placed lay an employee o' e do leptone company

Who was handled by Davia WILSTED (pseudo)

The number of lines

tapped was linted, by availadility.of a listening past nearby

(since the taps were not rade in the main.

central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, etc) transcribers. Generally

these agents (mostly Mexican or Mexican American) were related

(which the station at that time felt was good security in that

if they talked about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Arderson with the help

of Harry wahoney (retired, living in Chicago) and TDY ISD

people checking the best type of carera, film,

and concealment

devices. These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LINITED, LILYRIC,

and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed

site bang opposite across

the street from the front gate of the Soviet Eribassy. which had

both a vehicle and

foot entrance.

The Soviet

gate was on tha

Northlest corner of their compound and LINITED was diagonally.

across a double barrelled street on the Soutreact

os 970011215

CC00164

JFK-0.56

Copy lof 7

SECRET

A-3.)

13

---

## Page 12

14-00000

" SEGRET

that block.

LINITED was the first bese and it operaied

strictly on an

ei arinental besis in the early stages. I trink the Mexi Station bought

one storey

this property (a/Spanish Colonial stone house) through LINOUSINE (check to

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart.

This base was closed

when

the Station got word thet the photo of "uniden nan" was being

released

to the

puclic by the warren Connission. The photo operators were noved to another apt

nearby. The property vas

sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned es an alternat

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on

base to LIMITED.

ahe side of the street

as LITeD but in the middle of the block sg

It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Einbassy..

agents in LITED and LILYRIC (both

Mexican fanilies) as far as we knew

lot acquainted with each other?

LILYRIC was a rented apartment

in one of a row of. four hous

which the Mexico Station

the third photo site, was located

he South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

ised in about 1958 (check date), also using

LIMOUSINE as the purchaser (check). This site overlooked the back garden of

the Soviet imbassy compound. The purpose of this operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (wno at that time vere largely

unidentified in lexico Station records). The three photo sites were handled by

(Ramon Alvarez) (Mexican citizen of U.S. mother who taught elerentary level at

the American School). (Ranon collected the film goldient

brahim from LIMITED

and LILYRIC three times a week. His sister!s husband, (Carlos (ile¿can doctor)}

developed and printed the film into 8x10 contact print strips. The master plan

tuit

vas for LICALLA film to ie processed Inside, ISD man fron 1957 to 1959 (Harper

(Holt - resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed film began

to accumulate, the inside Co (l'ahoney) became disgusted and took the film out

for (Ramon's brother-in-law to process (probably early 1959). Thus (Ramon became

the handler for all three photo hases.

ISEMET

A sensitive staff D monitoring operation

0000165

---

## Page 13

14-00000

- 3

SECRET,

was run out of another one of these houses (crynt for the four houses was

LIUST, 1, ote). This was ha:dled by Glen MIDDa! (outside ISD officer)

and

Wahoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This operation was also separate

from LICALLA.

The two houses in between vere rented to unsusrecting tenants.

¡Ca lobile surveillance was developed by Anderson and later placed

under liahoney and Joseph Sancho. This

tean consisted of a half

dozen or so agents who used three to four late model cars and

panel truck (which could be used on stake outs for

The plan was to activate this group by radio

Soviet

when someone of interest left the/Embas

until they made

their neetings.

photo covera e).

EMITED BASE)

and stay with them

ants knew about

the IRaTED

BASE because they had LIlITED

This worked fairly well

for identification purposes..

Bout the middle of 1958 (check date)

When one of the

ce agents

got too close to his target and

was arrested by

exican transit police and turned over to the

Mexican Secret Service. By the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to bail him out Judd Austin of the Goodrich,

Little and Riquelme firm), the agent: had identified Sancho (who was

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside --.

phone number of lahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Puckett. As a result of this flap, the LIFEAT project was broken

up into several others. The agents were not changed but were given

Frank

new crypts. /Estancona ard (Peggy Haggard replaced Anderson in handling

the unilateral) phons taps.. Pickett replaced lahoney and handled the

surveillance team (LIENTRAF) and the photo bases through Remon.

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) mail

Intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, The agent (Mexican) had

[a seni official status and arranged to obtain selected letters Froa

0000166

15

---

## Page 14

14-00000

hel,

Ca sub-agent in the vostal system (I think at the airport.

Alfonso Spera,

were later/Puckett, Robert Feldnann, and Alan White.

llis case officers

2. LIaison coverage

was unreliable and insecure as characterized

the nature

of the lexican scrvices at that time.

Tre Mexican DES (Direction of Federal

Security) with which we dealt was a hip pocket grous run out of the finistry

OF Gov ranenti..

This kinistry spent a major part of its time

antrol off

{foreigners and colitical investications. Their azents

¿arous, venal,

(corrupt extortionists. Robert clberg established

with one of them

(Levine De Leon (later LIFIRE group) in about

He gave them some

training (a group of about five surveilla

_the airport. as well as file searches

In

travel control working

from DFS Hatrs) where the files

vere poorly organized and

often

ate..

How and then, however, sore useful

information vas developed but itocould not be decended upon. (Melberg was

replaced by Phil Roettinger. (resigned and reraired in Mexico), iahoney, Thomas

Hazlitt, ard Rovert Feldmann Ane After The Ether).

During 1958, Win Scott met socially some of the chronies of the

Mexican Prestdent elect, Adolfo Lopez lateos. During this period, the U.s.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then See State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight communism"..

One of these seeds

grew into a proposal Miguel Alenan (jr. son of former lexi President),

acting

for Locez lateos, made to Win Scott for a joint telephone tap operetion., This

project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a shakedown.

The Mexican in control

(LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old,

ard greedy. His

LIFXVOY-2

was a masterpiece of deceit and corription. LIELEGAIT also

manipulated control over the

principal agent

Of LIBIGHT mail intercept. The

first case

officer was Alfonso Spera

inside with Turner: Smith (retired) outside

and John

(TSD training officer for surveillence and head of the listening

post where thirty telephone lines would connect as vell as a transcription roon

0000167

---

## Page 15

14-00000

.. SEGRET

staffed is lie ican arry officers!) Initially tie station tried to met every

demand made by the lericans.

Both [Snith and John hed larguage difficulties and

personal problems associated with being outside the stetion(50 that the Mexicans

Were virtually uncontrollable, spendi: & money as

they pleased, squirrelling away

equipment at enornous costs, and neglecting their part of the bargain in the

production of transcripts or placing taps which we wanted!

Spera was replaced

by Jack Brady no found himself in the sane pincer

nt of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady had

in by the son, LIENVOY-?

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant

was little to show for it,

the project was revanped.( Smith and J

reburned

to the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer, (Charles Flick,

put inside the listening post to naintain

Brady was reassi

other duties fendirg a transfer.

the equipment./ Scott took ov

project as case officer meeting with LTELEGANT.

He designated Ann Goodpas

neet delt with flieror routino supervision

of the listening post,

Ing up transcripts and tapes. Goodpasture had no

dealingswith the Vexicans except when Scott was ill or out of town.. Generally,

all decisions were made by Scott. This was about late 1961..

3. My menory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Embassy but I.

think the staff first developed from a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a rakeshift arrangement of volunteers

through most of 1960 and 61 with Tom Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on

their activities and recruitiig agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Kexico City.

4 Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in lexico during

the period

prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

warren Conmission. To deternine who was there and what they were doing I

have groiped persons together

chronologically with areas of their assignment

as the

covering from 1950 to 1969 so

that ibookes nanes gop up, one can tell what

period they were in Mexico and

! their assignments, at the time.

SECRET,

C000168

---

## Page 16

14-00000

- 8

_SECRET.

8/50-6/69

COS

DCOS

Winston H. Scott (deceased)

7/56-7/58

Alfonso Rodriguez, (ratired)

10/58 - 12/629

(retired)

6/63 - 9/65

Man bhite (retired) -

10/65 - 1969 (Stanley Watson (retired in Nexico)

COVERT ACTION

Prior to 19542 Howard Hunt (retired)

(12/54) - 7/59 Williard Hill (resigned)

12/55 - 9/62

Stannard Short (retired)

9/61

- 3/64

Chief

David Phillips C/(retired) -

8/62 - 9/64

Asst

2/64 - 6/65

James Flannery C/(retired) -

9/64 - 11/66

Harold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967

(Stanler Watson C/ (retired) -

(Joseph SmithC (retired in

PROMIBITE

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Ch

2/60 - 4/62 (Jack Stewart) (re

Costa Rica)

4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief -

9/03 - 1/65 Ray Swider

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Kackay (neteed)

8/66 - 6/65 David Phillips Chief (natired)

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piccolo.

10/65. - 12/67 (Peygy Maggard)

SOVIET. TARGET

5/57 - 10/59 Louise Ison (ratmed! 6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps).

9/59- 8/65 (Herbert Hanell Chief-

(retired ?)

3/64 - 2/6 arter bright

Outside CO

4/65 - 11/67 Cynthia Hausmann

6/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

7/65-4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TPANSCRIDERS

6/56 - 8/53 Morris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63 George Misko

6/63 ÷ 70

Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) -

SENNET.

Ö000169

18

---

## Page 17

4-000130

14-00000

•7

MiST

SUPFORT ASSETS

(Unilateral phono

taps

(1949) - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

4/55) - 4/00 Peacy Faggord) Asst

4/56 - 1/62

Frenk Estancona Chiof

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

9/64 - 12/67 Michael Farmer

49-71)? Outside CO

David WILSTED (ps)

retired in Mexico

(Unilateral photo Cubans

PROMIBITED

6/59-2/64

Robert Zambernardi

(resigned lexico))

7/59-6/62

(Richard Seathar TSD) (retired)

(Unilateral photo Soviets

{3/54)-4/59

Harry T. Mahoney

REPRODUCTION

56 -

(retired Chicago)

68

Outside Agent

Remon

Alvarez (resigned in Mexico)

5/57 - 8/64

A. Goodpasture (alternate. CO -

and internal routing)

6/58-6/63

Louis D. 'Puckett (retired

6/63 - 10/64 Thomas Keonan Robert H6168

Feld marn

65 - 66

Willian Bright

813163.

Liaison phone taps

1959 - 1969. Winston Scott (deceased)

1959 - 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

1959 - 1960 (Turner Smith (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960 John

(Training rept resigned)

1360- 1961

John Brady (retired)

1962 - 1968

A. Goodpasture

1961 - 1971 (Cherles Flick) (outside TSD Staff zent - retired) -

Liaison - surveillance

Erior 1954)

Robert kelberg) (retired)

3/54 - 4/59

Harry lichoney

(retired)

4/59 - 1961

Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldinann (u Fired)

TSD Outside unit

4/58 - 12/63

6/58-4/64

Glen Hidden (rotired)

Joseph 1. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed down

LEESRET

Prali lead

0000170

19

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRET

About nid 1962 (creck date) LINVOy outside lext rept asied

-for the telephone nunders of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Embassies.

With this forevarning, LIFEAT (unilateral coverage) was disconnected.

However

as I recail, the Mexicans connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Folish, and I Yugoslav line. The baserouse listening post had a live

monitor tico made short sumnaries of interesting conver

resume which was received each day arourd 8 a..

to get to Scott before 9.a.m.) Later (when tk

full transcripts were typed and passed

there was usually a time lag of a

Russian or another languege b

post the day after the tr

for a daily

by (Flick to Goodpasture

was completely recorded)

station in the same way, however,

Those transcripts which red

panish or English went out of the listening

t (of other conversations on the reel)was

typed. These reels were taken to another location where they were translated

and typed. In the case of the Russian translations, Boris Tarasoff usually ran

about a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume of

Russian conversations among the members of the Soviet Embassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried to Boris by one of the people fron the Soviet Section or they nay

have been carried to him by flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to Herbert Manell to take to Boris. Herbert lanell and his wife Barbara:

handled all of the processing of Soviet transcripts. ly job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned trat the man calling himself Oswald was

probably an Anerican.

However, here again there was a backlag because the

photos were picked up three times a week but the ones picked up were usually

for dates a few days previously because (the doctor processed the film on a

night time basis. Frotographs were made usually until one roll was used but

later we got it changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators cleared the caere each day tether thore was angelikers a full

roll of filn exposed.

Instructions were to cover office hours, photograch each

0000171

20

i :

---

## Page 19

14-00000

_ 4- BEGRET

new Soviet and family, all foreigners and foreign licence plates.

Funan

error did occur but generally the agents were conscientious.

The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sophisticated equipient (a pulse ca: era) but it

frequently developed nechanical difficulties. Bob Zambarnardi and Scathar

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna l'acilay screened

the film inside the station.

I am certain thet the Oswald call came

attention from the

Soviet line.: It was picked up and taken to Bog

the caller

was trying to speak Russian.

a translation because

compare the photographs with the ty

elay was caused by waiting to

There were no copies of

transcriots every made in lang

her than Spanish or English because Win

Scott could read oly thos

anguages ard he rersonally screened the

transcripts for operational leads he wanted pursued.

CC00172

MET.

21

---

## Page 20

14-00000

14-00000

PROMIBITED

PRODUC

(4) -50r Emb gate

I-LIMITED

2°

LILYRIC

LICALLA

Phato Bases

22

0000173

SECRET

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SECRET

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

TUESDAY

1th OCTOBER 1963

Coveraga: 900 to 1900

Log File 144

20 Laxp

Weather 1/100

Camera Setting 3.5-2.5°

1 1251 2URY platican con KAZ en el jardin

$$/84856896848683s689485586848%8989598%896896848589584890596898%s986898688946868785o8

WEDNESDAY 2 OCTOBER 1963

Coverage: 900 to 1900

311139 ANOV

out UMN a Norte por Tacubaya-Despide

DD

Chev

375

4 " 1 1 1 l " 1:" " " " 10 1 1 D 1l ll 1 D Il 1l 19

" 10 10 80

5 1150 U MM.

out a. Norto por Tacubaya en

Fo

Verdo (entr&1141)

71033 DF

.6 1205 LEON

: in': 2URY de Oriente por

7818889 8 89D001 10D0 1 10 10 08 11 191

372

8 1216 UMM

9

Á218 U-A M

in de Sur por

camloneta Chev(sali81218)

52137. DF

in de Sun

10

8 00 10

Tacubaya

' "*

6 Minute

100÷67

1

1222 U A M

out a Norte por Tacubaya

12

13 1 00 10. 18 18 11

B8. 18

14 1248 VAZQUEZ out a Norto por Tacubaya

16 1259 TIPO

out a Norte por Tacubaya de Chev (entro

1218)

D 167

THURSDAY 3 Ocoober 1963

171200 UM W

Doverage: 900 to

1900

18 1204 UM W

in de Norte por Tacubaya

out a Norte por Tacubaya en Taxi

8882 D

19%000 000000

20 1213 U N M

in de Sur por Tacabaya

21 1222 U M M

out a Sur por Tacubaya

0000174

JFK #*056

Copy lof T

-SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 22

14-00000

14-00000

(CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAMAS

-RELEASE IN FULL

1999

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Chancery 15-61-55

Item 295, page 3

At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet Enbassy Chancery

to the Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia DURAN. He asks

DURAN if the american has been there.

DURAN: Yes, he is still here.

SOVIET :

According

to the letters that he showed them from the (Soviet)

Consulate in Washington, he wants to go to the USSR to stay

a long time with his wife who is Russian, but also the

answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.

That accordingly these transactions take 4 or 5 months but

without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request

and even then, they could not issue the fe

Sa here (in Mexico

City) without asking Washington.

clingly

this man

(the American),

.. showed him a lets

which he (the

American) is a member. of an organs

in favor of Cuba

and said that the Cubans could

ve him the visa without

the Russian visa and now the

"doesn't know what to do

with him, because he has to

Bfor the answer from

Washington.

DURAN:

..with them also, becau

E problem with him (the Anerican)

is that he doesn't kn

one in Cuba and in that case

is very difficult.

him a visa, because he was

thinking of proce

is visa, because he knew it was

going to take

Fime waiting for the Russian visa in

Cuba, and the

to the USSR.

SOVIET:

.. that the

that if his (the American) wife were

now in Was

son (and) going to receive the visa right now

or the permission from the USSR to return to her country. (if)

She is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having

this visa, she can communicate to whatever place, this

permission; for example, here or in any other place (he) can

receive it, but right now they do not have them.

DURAN:

..certainly and neither can (the Cubans) give him a letter

because they do not know if the visa will be approved.

SOVIET:

DURAN:

SOVIET:

They can only give the visa according to instructions.

Then that is what she will put on his application.

Neither can I give him any letter of recommendation because

I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

DURAN: It was no bother, thank you very much..

C000175

ECRET

JFKHOSE

Copy lof.?

SUIN

---

## Page 23

4-00000

14-00000

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Consulatc 15-60-55

Item 74, page 2

An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet Embassy

Consulate at 1037 hours and asks for the Consul. He is told that

the Consul is not there. The unidentified man asked what is needed

to get visas. to go to Odessa. He is told to call back at. 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

At 1235 hours a man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) from inside the

Soviet Embassy Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial

America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the

telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN ROMAN.

ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Embassy and they deed to

know what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa.

Soviets will also need copies of the passenger manif

(One concludes that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN

Pring representatives

for the boat "KALONIA"', and needed routine

isa antormation.

a call was made to the first listipe

Soviet Embassy in the

Mexican telephone directory (which

out to be the Military Attache).

They got the phone number

Farisülate and the address. After

making a call to the Copag

learning that it would not be open

until 1130 hours, ALA

it to the address to get the needed

information.)

• Item 395, pages 7 and 8

Just after 1600 hours, the Soviet Consulate received a call from the

Cuban Consulate (Sylvia DURAN) who said she had there a U.S. citizen

who had requested a transit visa to Cuba because he is going to the

USSR. DURAN wants to know with whom he spoke at the Soviet Embassy

because she sent him over to them telling him that if the Soviets

approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything

more, advising the (Department of) Innigration in Cuba. She wants

to know with whom he spoke because he says that he doesn't know

either with what person and who told him that certainly there would

be no problem. The Soviet asks DURAN to wait a minute. After a

short wait DURAN explains the same thing to another Soviet. This

Soviet tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her name and

someone will return the call. DURAN gives her name and telephone

number 11-28-47 then says as a personal thing, she has moved and

has not advised them of a change of äddress so

will not receive their

Bulletin and can give it to them now. The Soviet asks her to call

KOUKHARENKO in order to change that address and asks for the name

of the (Cuban) Cultural Attache. DURAN says it is Teresa PROENZA

whose number is 14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her.

G000176

2

---

## Page 24

14-00000

CSS.AGE

ROUTING

, DIRECTOR

ROM.

• MEXICO CITY

ACTION, WH 8

, C1, C1/OPS, C1/IC Z, FI, SR 7, RE, VR

2 1

31

ES GOETA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

enti

XX

179079432

MIR CITE MEXI 6453

LCTAPROUS

ACC LIENVOY 1 OCT 63, AMERICAN MALE WHO SPOKE ROKEN RUSSIAN

SAID HIS NAM

OSWALD (PHONETIC)., STATED HE

AT, SOVEM9 ON 28

GENT WHEN SPOKE WITH CONSUL WHOM HE RELIEVED RE

MALERIY VLADIMIPOVICH

ASKED SOV GUARD IVAN DRYEDKON WHO

IF THEPE

ANUTHING NEW RE TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON. ORYEDK©™

CHECKING SAID

NOTHING RECEIVED. YET, BUT REQUEST HAD PFEN

SENT

• HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS PE AMERI

NT ER ING

SOVEMB

1216

MAURS, LEA"ING IOD? ON I OCT. APPAR

35,

ATHELTIC BUILD,

CIPCA & FEET, RECEDINS HAIRLINE

ING TOP. WORE KHAKIS

9ND

SOIRT SHIRT. SOURCE LIES

3. NO LOCAL DISSEY.

1: 200-5-41

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON_

16 APR

1976

ELERIMADET CL BY 912208

Hut 6534, 15 Oct.

-

Requated pouch phat camell;

Pór. FOlA Rovisi on APR 1976

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PECHICITED

101-284248

1Q0t63

Copy No.

0000177

1471

Copy lofT

JFK#056

---

## Page 25

14-00000

ORIG.:

EXT.:

, DISTR.:

- ADILLINGER

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 8 OCT 1963

FILE:

Conmo i Chrono;

-Sor Contacts yo-8-10-€

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DId.

DEFERRED

XXX

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DIR

INFO.

CITE MEXI

NURDER

ICIMPROVE

1.

ACC EATENVOS I OCT 63, AMERICAN MALE WIO SPOKE BROKEN RUSSINY SAID HIS

NAME IDE OSWALD (PHONETIC), STATED HE AT SOVENE ON 28 SEPT WEE SPOKE WITE

CONSUL, WHOM HE BET,TEVED BE VALERIY VLADINIROVICI KOSTIKOV. SUBJ. ASKED SOV

CHARD IVAN OBEDIGY WHO ANSWERED, IF THERE ANYTICUN

HASHINGION. OBVERKOY UPON CHOCKING SAID NOT

HAD BEN SENTE

RE TELEGIAL. TO

SAVED KEY, BUT REQUEST

2. HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS BE

AYERICAN INITRING SOVEMB 1216 HOURS,

MUZ AGE 35, ANITATIC BUILD, CIRCA 6 PEST,, REGEDINC

KHAKES AND SPORT SHIRT.

SOURCES. LIETY.

HATREINE, BALDING

3. NO LOCAL

DUP OF

5 ..

originated. by

1.1. BILLEN PTER (P)

wife Ef Herb MIAnEL

SOORDINATING OFFICERS

DECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

WCCUTT IS

RELEASING OFFICER

0000178

---

## Page 26

14-00000

UNIT :

EX!

DATE :

Nic.

BUSTOS: Jpm

• WD/3/Mexico

5940

10 Dot 1963

"TO

MEXICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CÖNF WH 8

INSO LADDP, CI, C1/OPS,

TO

MEXI

REE:

CLASSIEIED MISSAGE

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

HO SECREt

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO

6S COPY

18-63

ROUTING

5

160ct 63 22 189:z

R

DEFERSED: CEN

ROUTINE

• Fl: SR 7, RF, VR

-CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL CITE DIR

HAXI 6453 (IN 36017)*

74830

for FOIA Review on

LOS OSWALD WED CALLED SOVEME I OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL

I FEEL CHO CAN 29248 BORN I8OCT I939, NE

RLEANS,

LOUISIANA, FORMER RADAR OPERATOR IN UNITED STATE

WHO DETECTED TO ISSE IN OCT 1959. OSWALD IS

FEET TEN

INCHES, ONE, HUNDRED SIXTY, FIVE POUNDS,

LICHBROWN WAVY HAIR,

BLUE BYES.

8837.

#2M ON 31 OCT 1959 B3 47

STATES CITIZENSHIP TO THE

INDICATING HE HAD APPLI

APOSTO RENOUNCE HIS UNITED

STATES EMB IN MOSCOW,

SOVIET CITIZENSHIP. ON 13 FEB

POSTHARRED MINSE ON FIVE TEB 1961 IN WHICH SURE INDICATED

HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN TO USA

IF "WE COULD COME TO SOUS AGRESMENT CONCERNINC THE DROPPING

OF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME! *

ON 8 JULY ON HIS OWN

ELRZIMPDET CL BY 0/220%

CONDUCTED ON_

CLASSIFSCATON EXPAY 197E

INITIATIVS IB, APPRARED AT THS SUB WITH HIS WIFE TO SRE ABOUT

201-289248

HIS RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT. EE. ACTUALLY HAD NEVER

APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATION AT lO COCT63

INS. OFFICE8

712:

COORDINATING OFFICERS

(CONTINUED)

FIORIT

utomatie

AUTHENTICATIN

classification

OFFICE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN. THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

ES COPY:

0000179

3.0F71

---

## Page 27

14-00000

ORIGI:

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

O INDEX

EJ NO INDEX

ISECRET

*D'FILE IN CS FILE NO.::*

See Sanitized Filer yA.

Number

For sterile copy of this document,

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

TO

12-62

ROUTING

5

DEFERREDi

ROUTINE

297

PAGE THO

12

INFO

CITE DIR

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN USSR AND FOR TEMPORARY B

OF HIS TOURIST VISA DENDING OUTCOMS OF HIS RE

APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO OSWALD, CONTATI

CITIZENSHIP.

OSWALD STATED THAT HAD BI

13 JAN 1960 IN BELORUSSIAN RADIO

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER

MARRIED ON 30 APRIL 1961

TErS

EF TO SOVIET

PLOYED SINCE

FACTORY IN MInSK

SEARCH SHOP.

OSvArD wAS

NA NIROLAEVNA PUSAROVA AT

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BOR

JULY 1941 USSR.:

NO HOQS TRACES.

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCON SO SHE

COULD APPEAR AT EUB FOR VISA INTERVIEW.

HIS AMERICAN PPr

YAS RETURNED TO HIM. US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY

MONTHS

OF REALITISS OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD.

3. LATEST IDAS INFO HAS ODACID REPORT DATED' NAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

LOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFS HAVS EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

TO USA.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASINO OFFICER"

( CONTINUED)

CROUP

Exciuded 1i

TOF 71 REPRODUCTION.

• OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE. PROHIBITED.

C000180

AUTHENTEERTINE

Copy Mo,

---

## Page 28

14-00000

UNIT

•EXT

DATE

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

• CONF :

-INFO :

TƠ

CATE 15SX

171H06X

HEARTI

O NO INDEX

CO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROU

4.

PAGE THREE

INFO

DEFFRRED

ROUTINE

CITE DIR

.74830

STATION SHOULD PASS INFO REF AND PARA ONE

TO

IWO AND TERES ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.

15.

REY AND POSSIBIS IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

TO BEES OF CENTS PACT, GOT, AND ODURGE. PIS KEEP

EDQS ADVISED ON ANY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE

ATIFICATION

OF OSWALD:

WH, CHT:

END OF MESSAGE

*According to LIENVOY I Oct

spoke broken Russian sai

(phonetic) stated he

spoke with Consul

to Washington.

American

male

wke

name Jes Oswald

• Son Enb on 28 sept

ther

scussed tending & tolgg..

Dissemination had

Bade.

done

DiR

74673

стомани

ARAMESSINE

ADDP

RELEASING OFFICER

SB/CI/A/Roll (1n draft)

CI/Liaison/Roman • (in draft)

• (1n dratt)

C/H/3

WH/COPS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

a declass ricotio

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-289248

J.C.

BING

CHD

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy Nos

C600181

50071

---

## Page 29

14-00000

CO. UNCLASS! FIED

SUBJECT: (Oplional)

FROM:

ION 5rd designation, room somer, Yond

building)

" DATE

1.

SCOTT

2.

WHITE

RECEIVED

1S/,v

3.

ERNAL

¡E ONLY

CON

¡ENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION

SECRET

NO.

DIR 74830

DATE

OCT 1 1 1963

5545

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number soch comment lo sham

from whor

to whom.

Draw a line across column afier doch commenl.)

We should cal,

Hi for

hals.

• OSWALD

10.

11.

12.

13.,

14.

FORM

3-62

U6U0N

Tils =15/x/63 80

Paul NEW P-hits

ScOTT 1518/11.

5.

S

CRE

P-8573

670 USE PRONS

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL L

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

Aritos?

UNCLASSIFIED

0000182

60÷.71

---

## Page 30

14-00000

Uls TR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

11 OCT 63

DEFERRED

EXXXX

ROUTI

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

FILE:

INITIALS

CLASSIICATIO CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM !

RELEASE IN FUT

NUMBEE

INITIALS

1022292

1999

VERI: 84538

50-8-10-6

LEE OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVENB 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL •

LEE HENRY OSWALD (201-289248) BORN,18 OCT. 1232,

NEW ORLEANS,

-LOUISIANA FORMER RADAR OPERATOR *IN UNITED STATES MARINES

•WHO DEFECTED TO USSR IN eCT 19590

OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN

BLUE EYES.

SUE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAIR,

STATES CITIZENSHIP TO THE UNITEU STATES

ON 31 OCT 1959 HE ATTEMPTED TO RENOUNCE HOSCUNITED

INDICATING HE HAD 'ÄPPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP.

ON 13 FEB

THE US EMB. MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

OSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATE

•HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US-PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN. TO USA IF WE

COULD COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING: THE DROPPIN

OF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME." SON & JULY:

INITIATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE EMB WITH HIS; WIFI

RETURN TO STATES• SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACTUA

FOR: SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLIS

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN

USSR AN

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME

ABOUT HIS

NEVER APPLIED

EMPORARY EXTENSION

REQUEST •

IPPLICATION ACCORDING TO OSWALD

CITIZENSHIP. -*OSWALD STATED THA

EN-EMPLOYED SINCE:*

13 JAN 1960: IN BELORUSSIAN RAD

TV. FACTORY. IN MINSK

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER

RESEARCH SHOP•

MARRIED ON 30-APRIL 1951 TO MAR!

NA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17. JULY 1941 USSRo.

NO HDQS TRACES.

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

COULD APPEAR-AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW.

HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO HIM. ÷ US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

ON OSWALD.

LATEST, HDQS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

TO USA •

DIR 74830

24 Up. ild

I yearn

DIN' OF

7-2

INTO PARAS

( CONT PAGE:TWO?

INCOMING

0000183

7=F71

---

## Page 31

14-00000

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

OTG

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NITIALS

INITIALS

INFO

INCOMING HUMSEN

CITE

PAGE TWO DIR 74830--IN 5945

-HUMBER

sen.

"*5.

REF "AND POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

ODACID, ODOATH, AND ODURGE.

FDAS ASVISED ON ANY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE FDENTIFICATION

OSWALD.

END _OF

.. MSG

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

11/16027

CROSITION

INCOMING

6000184

---

## Page 32

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999.

CLÄSSIFIED MESSAGE

730 EWS

TO

FROM

• DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

ACTIONS

WH 8

E3 COPVi

INFO

ADDP, GI, CH/OPS, GS/SP, FI, SR 7, RF, VR

- (on run as 15 Now

F:: 7 ET 1517302

Г;:Р ССЕ MEXI 6534

LEI PROVE

POF DIR 74930

LS POUCH PHOTO OSWALD.

• ROUTING

151

ODUCTION PRES

150763 IN 40357

C/S COMMENT: *ATTEMPTS OF LEE OSWALD AND WIFE TO REENTER U.S.

0000185

Document Number

8-4

¡FOlA Roviouton APR 1975

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON.

16 APR 1916

E ZIMPDET CL BY O1 2208

D: 200.5-41

201-289248

• ..... ..

63. Casy

RENACT

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

## Page 33

14-00000

PRIG.:

KT.l

"STR.:

XXCK

DIN

UNdESTEINER

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

15 OCT 1963

_Commo; Chrono;

Lée Henry Oswald

(Now P")

STORET

CLASSIFICATION

• FILE:

INITIALS

DTG.

NUMBER

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE MEXI

LCIMPROVE

REF; DIR 74830

"NUMBER

6534

PLS POUCE PHOTO OSWALD.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE I' FULL

1999

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Dachers? Diarate

TO FOLA Fort cu

SAMEAS

1373-489

HOY. 1979

8-4

GFGESTETNER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000186

WCCURTIS

RELEASING OFFICER

1OSF11

---

## Page 34

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

: Cha duassador

26 October 190÷

Le @SUALD/Contack rita tra. 9211e6 2-42351

In 1 Cetosce 1963;

tho soviot darrosy and identilled hinali as loU USHAIo.

Tala orfIca: de

tezadaod beni aWAD bad boen it the soriot Enozany en 25 septeaber 1555 ari

Bachica, in onic to Ilara 1I the sonot illesy bal recalred a raply ita

Maaidastou conerates his roquest. le kare n0 clar

IBard to this soquosi.

2. Cur leadastera bas Iniorsed 3s te

Ivatatana, i formos rular ogerator 1o tho

HA abora 10 prostaly

95 1959 13 SEr OrLeBTI,

berina corge uns defecterl

to tho soriet lidon 10 Detober 1959

add1tiona2 Intoratias on tals natter

10 recoirea

9/05

ISG/0CJ

.cc

CC

C:

FRATEL FRAGRAR

198072407

R83L6

ЕЕ ГОЗ ОПИНЕ

tha

ESSA C38. G00

CROLE CLA (N1)

BN9 (87

із ва тЦе

16531

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

C5IE - Tho intassader

CONDUCTEO ON

1 6 AYK 19

Ico MILi

COBBio E= POlitical Attrirs

ELAZIMPDET CL BY C/2 20G

ROSICAl SeCETTA QIICET - FLEATE ARTURN IU INS SUE MUER.

Lee Henry OSWALD P-

- 50-2-4-7

- Ljaison with Legal Attache

Elalson with Naval Attache

90 3

Document Number

for FOlA Review on APR 1976

RECORD COPY

TX-1.919

16 OCT.

.63

501-289241

'o monorandun to Legal Attache on &

nctober 1063; however, note nemorandum

to US Anbassador (dated 16 October)

also included Legal Attache in distri-

bution..

0000187

HEP1

---

## Page 35

14-00000

JOSIED MESSAGE

wing notion 10

2:

• DIRECTOR

signed

PHOM I. MEXICO CITY

AS COPYI

R.0. #1 - Unlt

ACTION: C/AI 5 (COPY ISSUED TO DCI, 1810 22. NOV BP

If destruction,

cite

DOP NOTIFIED AND

COPY SLOTTED AT 1800: 22 NOV safessons and coorainate

INTO : DCI, D/DCI, DDP, MODP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/ôs zorropriato.

XX

En 2222297

IMEDIATE DIRCITE MEXI 7014

22 0v 63 IH G6781

REF:

Ao UMEXI 6453 (IN3 6017).

B. IDIR 74830÷

C. 4, MEXI 6557 (IN 40357) *1

l. ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD AT

STATIC

PRESIDENT KENNEDY

_ ASSASSINATION, ONE LEE H.

EGARDING

AGE 24

HAS BEEN ARRESTED IN DALLAS POSSIBLY

NECTION

ASSASSINATION

OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

2. DIRECT HQS ATTENTIO

3. REQUEST PRIORITY

PHOTO OSWALD SO THAT STATION

CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIEMPIY COVERAGE FOR IDEN. FORWARDING

SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT WHO COULD

ES IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD. CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

GECIET

RELEASE IN FULL

R:20106:211

1999

Fijo

0: 200-5-41:

29

Document Number

4-12

for FOlA Revieir on APR 1976

CONDUCTED O

ELZUGET OL BY 0/2205

G3 COPY

201-289248

22 N0r6.3

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0000188

12.0=71

---

## Page 36

14-00000

ORIG.: G. E. GESTETNER

EXT.:

DISTR.:

COMMO

KEXX CHRONO (DUMMY)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

DATF:

22 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

P-8593

• DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

bTO.

NUMBER

INITIALS

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

CITE MEXI

4016

RYBAT

Ar MEXI 6453°

B. : DIR 74830

C. MEXI 6534

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FÜLL

1999

1. ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD ATRAI

ANYON REGARDING

PEESE EASINATION ONE

ASBEEN

OSWALD AGE 24

ARRESTED IN DALLAS POSSIB

OF. PRESIDENT KENNEDY

CONNECTION ASSASSINATION

2. DIRECT HOS ATTENT

REFS.

I REQUEST PRIORITY LOUCH PHOTO OSWALD SO THAT STATION

CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIEMPTY COVERAGE FORIDEN. FORWARDING

SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT WHO COULD

BE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD.

END OF MSG

24-12

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000189

13.05 2)

---

## Page 37

14-00000

CLASSIAIED MESSAGE

Jour Ma

shitten

• C/HII 3

DJ INDEX

EXT

5613

D.NO INDEX

DATE : " 22 SvenNer 1963 C FILE IN CS FILE NO.

_17.c?

ROUTIN

5

FROM:

MEXICO CITY

DIRECTOR

DOC MICRO-SER

DEC 4- 1914

IS GO MICROFILMED

22 N0v 13

CONF:

C/WH 5

IÑFO :

DEFERRED CEM

ROUTINE

DDP, ADDP, C/CI; C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/05. 2,

TO

INMEDIATE: MEXI

INFO,

CIA SPECIAL COLAECTIONS 4 8 0.2

RELEASE N

ULL

THANKSTEIS CONTECTION WAS AISO NOTED HERE.

4. 2.

TRUST YOU WILL BE ATE USE ALL YOUR FACILITES IO FOLIOH AND REBORI

SOVIST E

I REACHO FRIG THESE HOURS. PLASS CABLES

SUMMARIES.

ENDOF MESSAGE

ICER • STANT

40.2

C/S COMMENT:

** (IN 66781).

2 One

P/EY

D: 200-5-41

Document Number - 8.

for FOlA Review: ori

APR: 1976

THOMAS E. KARAMESSINE

• ADDP

RELEASIAC

REPRODUCTION BY OFFERE

signed:

R:O. #1 = Unst CZURS

• Note: " It

destruction,

cito

reasons

and coordinate

11 appropriato.

146:

8

201-289248

20005-64

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED. ON 6 APR 1976

ELIAMPDET CL BY 012208

IS COPY:

C22NOU63

COORDINATING OFFICERS

inclunes from soromati

ossification

THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

JOIN M. WETTI

C/wH 3

•AUTHENTICATING

1: 9

'OFFICER

Copy No

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2-083

0000190

14.0021

---

## Page 38

14-00000

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

23 NOV 63

CLASSIFICATION.

DEFERRED

INITIALS

PRIORITY

DTG

INCOMING NUMTEN

ROUTINE

OPERATIONAL

INITIALS

XXXXIMMEDIATE

TO

PK0

28 2223407

IMMEDIATE MEXI

INFO

6663

CITE

RYBAT

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

DIR 84802

REF. MEXI 17Q84

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

1. THANKS• THIS CONNECTION WAS ALSO NOTED HERE..

2, TRUSI YOU WILL BE ABLE USE ALL YOUR FACILITIES

REPORT SOVIET EMBASSY ACTIVITY AND REACTION

LOW AND

PLEASE CABLE FULL

SUMARIES

END: OF

REPRODUCTION PRON

*THESE HOURS•

DUP. oF

26-8

23/00227

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000191

15 0t 2.1

---

## Page 39

14-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

SWIN

• DIRECTOR

FROM • MEXICO CITY

ACTIONS

INFO : :

ES COPY:

WH 8 (MR WHITTEN, WA & NIGHT SECURITY OFFICER NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT

2015,

22 NOV Bp)

DEl, D/DEl, DOP, ADDP, CI, CL/OPS, CI/iC 2, FI, SR 7, SAS 8, OS 2, VR

SECRET 2308532

TiEDZATE DIR CITE/DEXI 7819 201-299247

REF: MEXI 7814 (IN 66781)*

1o MEXI STATION HAS PHOTOS SAME

TYPE WHO IS POSSIBLY OSWALD ENTERIMOOIERN

•IFIED AMERICAN

EMBASSY ON 15

OCTOBER.

SEARCHING FOR POSSIBI

•PHOTO-DOCUMENTED ENIRY.

CUBAN EMBASSY OTHER DAYS®:

2.

ALSO ATTEMPIING ESTABLISH OSWALD ENTRY AND DEPARTURE

22 NG: 631N 668.46

MEXI.

C/S ,Comment: *Request priority pouch photo Oswald so that Station can check all

reces: coverage for ideatity.. Forwarding soonest copies of only visitos to SovEnb.

23 Ort, who could be identical. wich Oswald.

0000192

201-

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ONT 6 APP. 1075

ELRBIMPDET CL BY 012208

22-110063

D: 200-5-41

Document Numbere

for FOlA Review on AFR 1976

63 807X

501-289248

CrAD

22N6U63

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

160771

---

## Page 40

14-00000

ORIG: JOHNM.

UNIT :

EXT

C/WH/3

: 5613

DATE :

22. NOY. 63

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

WHITIEN

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

LPBO SECRET

O FILE IN CS FILE NO..

3

TO

MEXICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

вS COPY

CONF:

WH 8

INFO :

XX

TO

D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, CI, CI/OPS, C1/IC 2, FI, SR 7, SAS 8,

(PRIX) MSXI

INFO

date abang

22 Norto 23 Neu

RE MEXI 7019 (IN 66846) #

SEND STAFFER WITE ALL PHOTOS OSW

AVAILABLE FLICHI. CALL MR.

W

END OF

C/S Comment: *Reference atta

12-62

ROUTING

Nor. 23

CITE

9/ 36÷63

23 N0w:63

DEFERREDS ECT.

ROUTINE

84821

HOS. ON NEXT

5652-6827JON ARRIVAL.

Document Numbar

for FOlA Raviaw opi

51

-18

APR 1976

D: 200-5-41

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON.

1 6 APR 1978

E3 INDET CL BY C12205

0000193

201-289248

23 Ner 63.

JOHN M. WHITTEN by direction

THOMAS KARAMESSINES ADSBIDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP I

Encluded Irom automate

SECRET

downgrading and

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

Copy No..::

10f7i

---

## Page 41

14-00000

TRIC BACH Ö'NEAL

UNIT :

C/C1/5I0

EXT.

5367

DATE:

23. NOV 63

TA MANN

TIT

LID IN CA FLE NG.

•TO

: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFiCI/SI

CS COPY

torter

D/DCI, DDP; ADDP

C1/OPS, C1/10:2, FI, SR 7, WH 7,

TO

: IMMEDIATE MEXI

INFO

REF: MEXI 6453 (IN 36017)*

IMMEDIATE

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 4 8 86

RELEASE IN FULL

PORTANT YOU REVIEW ALL LIENVOY TAPES AND

TRANSCRIPTS SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL \

IAL

POSSIBLY PERTINENT TO SUBJECT RELY

7962250902902

DISPATCH SOONEST BY SPECIAL COURT

TAFFER IF

NEGESSARY, FULL TRANSCRIPTS AND OF

ONAL TAPES IF

AVAILABLE ALL PERTINENT MATI

ARE ORIGINAL TAPES

SABLE?

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

1'6 APR 1975

CONDUCTED ON.

EL&ZIMPDET CL BY 0(2.208

END OF MESSAGE

CS Comment:

#Reported that on I October 63, an American male who said

his name was Lee Oswald was at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City:

Document Number 40-541

201-289248

pen ser

D: 200-5-41

for FOIA Review ont

APR 1976

200-5-41

23N0U63

CS COPY

RELEASING OFFICER.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

Excludes a tor

EEn automalic

EGRET

erlassifestion

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

JOAN C. WRITTEN

WH/3

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

0000194

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/3003

160F RI

---

## Page 42

14-00000

DISTR:

-ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

23 NOV 63

DEFERRED

INITIALS

CLASSIFICATION

DIG

ROUTINE

TO

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XXXX IAMEDIATE

INCOMING HUMUER

INITIALS

PWO

INFO

2317167

6680

CITE

IMMEDIATE MEXI

REF :

MEXI 6453

DIR gUsES

IMPORTANI. YOU REVIEW ALL LIENVOY TAPES AND TRANSCRIPTS

SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL MATERIAL POSSIBLY

ERTINENT -

TO SUBJECTERLE •

2. DISPATCH SOONEST BY SPECIAL COURTER

IF

NECESSARY FULL TRANSCRIPTS AND ORIGINAL CAR

AVAILABLE ALL PERTINENT MATERIAL.

..30

ARE ORIGINAL TAPES AVAILAB

MESSAGE

GIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DUP 0.

40-541

CHRONO DUMMY

23/18017

ECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000195

190F71

---

## Page 43

14-00000

4551262 MiSSaGE

UNIT :

EXT

DATE :

JOEIT M.

NETTIEN

c/v8 3

5613

O NO INDEX

23_NOVEMBER 1963 DO FiLE IN CS ELE NO.

TO

MEXICO CITY

2 3 Hou 63

17 232

FROM: DIRECTOR

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

CONF:

C/WH 5

INFO

DEFERRES

ROUTINE

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FT 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/Os 2,

TO

INMEDIATE MEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

84888

I ODIVY SAYS THAT PROTOS ER MAN ENTERING SOVTIL FURASSY

DILIAS WERE NOT OF LISE OSWAID-

PRESUME MEXI, HAS DOUDIED,

PROTOS AND IS ALSO CHECKING ALL PERTINENT OTHER PHOT

XI SENT TO

ED DATES OF THESE

USHALD.

OR POSSTELE SEOTS OF

Rpas

Pier

END OF MES

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEG 4

1974

MICROFILMED

Document Number

-38

for FOlA Roview od, APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

D: 200-5-41

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1978

ELZ@HAPDET CL BY 0 / 2208

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following

authorized:

Signed:

R.O. #1 - Uolt CZOPS

Note:

If destruction,

cite

reasons

and coordinate

If appropriate.

COPY

201-289248

200 5-41

2370063

0000196

WILLIAM

HOOD

VIa/ COFS

RELEASING

OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Escludes tram stomatic

SECRET

- declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

C/WE. 5

AUTHERTICATINO

OFFICER

Copy No.

Approved for Release

ty the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 312003

70 66 71

---

## Page 44

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

1 SECRET

ROUTING

4]

¿ DIRECTOR

-ROM !

AS COPT

MEXICO CITY

iCTION, :

CAN 5 CAR WHITTEN, WH, NOTIFIED AND COFY SLOTTED AT 1255 34 NOV 63 UNS)

DCI, D/DCly DDP, ADDP, C/GI, C/F| 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5g D/05. 2

хов єй Бат:

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE NEXI 7823

23101631487108

LIENVOY

C/S COME ELA SPELLADY COLSECHONS

CABLES.

1. ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA,

OURAN CUBAN EMB CALLEDRSOLEASE IN FULL

CONSUL SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB AND WISH

SPEAX WITH CONSUL.

UNIDEN. NORT HAMERICAN TOLD SOV CONSUL QUOTE

"I WAS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO. YOUR CONSUL. . I WAS. JUST NOW AT

YOUR IMB AND THEY TOOK MY ADDRESS," SOV CONSUL SAYS "I

THAT" •

UNIDEN NORT HAMERICAN SPEAKS RUSSIAN " I DID NOT KNOW

ELZIMADET CL BY O 12200

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION. REVIEW

I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMB TO ASK THEM FOR MY ADDRE

CAUSE

THEY

HAVE IT"• SOV CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU COME AGA

LEAVE YOUR

ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM CUBAN

UNIDEN

NORT HAMERICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

DAWAY.". MONITOR NOTES

UNIDEN NORT HAMERICAN SPOKE TERR

HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE

• RUSSIAN®

OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON ! OCT

for FOlA Review oil APR APR 1976

Document Number

49

LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28, SEP, SUBJECT'

PARA ONE PROBABLY

19-545

OSWALD. STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE ERASED. PRIOR

RECEIPT SECOND CALL.

(IN 6678)

• PARA THREE MEXI 7014 DATE SHOULD BE ONE OCT 63 •

SAME

SUBJECT VISITED SOVEMBA OCT BUT NOT RECORDER LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

201-287248

MAXING EVERY EFFORT DEFER FARE OSVALDS ACTIVITIES MEXICO eU 63

RideRS 4i

-SEGREI

Entuderd

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

CH THOS

Approved for Release

0000197

by the Central Intelligence Agency:

Date: 2/2003

210f 1)

---

## Page 45

14-00000

ORIG.:

EXT.:

DISTR.:

R. B, RIGGS

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

CLASSIF 1999 SAGE

(+4)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XX

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DTO.

INITI1L2

TO

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

CLASCIFICATION

DATE:

wanna 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

R-8593

Silvia DURAN P-

IMMEDIATE DIR

LIENVOY

INFO.

DUP OF

CITE MEXI -787R

49-515

1.

ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA DURAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SOV CONSUL

SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB. AND WISH

SPEAK WITH CONSUL, UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN TOI

QUOTE "I WAS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO YOUR

CONSUL

JUST NOW AT YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOK MY

I WAS

RESS,".. SOV CONSUL

SAYS "I KNOW THAT." UNIDEN NORTH

DID NOT KNOW IT THEN. IWENT

,AN SPEAKS RUSSIAN "I

CUBAN EMB TO ASK. THEM FOR

MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THEY

" SOV CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU

COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM

CUBAN EMB." UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

RIGHT AWAY," MONITOR NOTES UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPOKE

TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE RUSSIAN.

2. IN VIEW OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON

1 OCT LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28 SEP; SUBJECT PARA ONE

PROBABLY OSWALD. SIATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRSI TAPE

ERASAX

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000198

2c0 7)

---

## Page 46

14-00000

JRIG.!

:XT.:

DISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

Page 2.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFICATION

(INITIALS

INITIALS

DTO.

TO

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INFO.

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL.

•CITE

NUIIDER

3. PARA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63.

REPEAT ONE

SAME SUBJECT

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

MEXICO.

MAKE EYES FRONT DETERM ON EVIDE

END OF MSG

REPRODUCTION PROMI

RBR

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SHORET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

WCC

RELEASING OFFICER

0000199

23 1F 71

---

## Page 47

14-00000

is,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DOC.: MICRO. SER

_ROUTING

• DIRECTOR

•ROM & MEXICO.CIT

DEC 4

19/4

MICROFILMED

IS COYIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

ICTION, C/SR 5.

MR. WHITTEN, WH AND MR. BAGLEY, SR NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: I605

23 NOV 63 WB

15O , DC1,. D/DCL, DDP, ADDP, G/Ck, C/CI/OPS, C/FI, C/WH 2, D/05.2,. VR

#: +9352319117

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

the following

IMMEDIATE DIR

CITE

23 Nov63 1N67 170

PUTAT REDWOOD L CIMPROVE

- Startin

FU!!

Signed:

REF

A.

DIR 84837#

B.. DIR 84885 *

R.0. #1 - Un1t <7UDS

Note:

17!:

4.

If dee rurtion.

c.

DIR 84886

reasons and coo

11 appropriat

:l... "ARA 1 A REF A, STATION'S IMMEDIATE AN

LIKELY DEFTNITIVE

CHECK INDICATES NO OTHEF

FROST IKOY TRAKEI

SIDE MEXIE MOST RECENT

LILYRIC REPORTING 6 TARU I9 NOV

NOST IKOV AT SOV EMB EVERY

DAY. SNO LILYRIC REPORTING S

DO 16-17 NOV.) WILL GET REPORTING

EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE

ACTIVITIES 22 NOV. PLACING HIK

UNDER LIEMÉRACE SURVEIL

2. PARA 2B REF: A,. NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVEME PERSONNE

ACTIVITIES 17. NOV TO. DATE.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

3. WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS A SER IMPDET CL BY 0/2.209

4.. REF B, IMMEDIATE AND PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS NO OTHER

1

ALFERIEV. TRAVEL. LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV AT ' SOVEMB 6

for. FOlA Review on

APR 1975

Document Number

62

THRU 19 NOV. NO LILYRIC COVERAGE 9218 AND 16-17 NOV.)

-24

.5. COVERING ALFERIEV ACTIVITIES SAME AS WITH XOSTIKOV. WILL

3

PLACE HIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP.

201-289248

D: 200-5-4124

GS COPK

200-5-41-

3201-305052

x32026

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Destas sitied and Approved for Releas 0000200

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

20 0F 21

---

## Page 48

14-00000

San Sentine: 21lu.

Nuriba

of this dos

CELISSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 67170 PAGE 2

6: OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S CONNECTION WITH SOU

AND CUBAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE. HOWEVER, STATION STAFF

COMPINE ALL AVAILABLE MATERIALS.

7. STEFPING UP RECEIPT ALL INCOMING MATERIALS COVERING. SOVEME,

TRYING GET LIFEAT COVERAGE OF SWITCHBOARD OF APT BUILDING WHERE

RESIDE MIN KAZANI SEV, SUSPECT RESIDENT RESIDENT INOV AND SUSPECT

GRU SHCHUCHKIN.. MAVING LIPAWN REPORT MOVEMENIS SIDOROV AND

MAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST SID. .

4

INCOMING LIFEAT ON

KGB KUZNET SOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP.

6

PROBABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY. TAPES ERASED.

6

HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES. LIENVOY CENTER. SEP CABLE

PROVIDES VERBAT IM TRANSCRIPT S.

C/S COMMENT:

Kostikov.

*Requested information

IN PROHIBITED®

REPRODUCTION"

Valeriy Vladimirovich

0000201

15 DF 71

---

## Page 49

14-00000

(49)

ORIG:

EXT.:

OISTR.:

70

GOS G.F. GESTETNER

COMMO-_

CHRONO (DUMMY

DEFERRED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1263

FILE: <P-8593

CLASSIFICATION

KOSTIKOV P-

ALFERIEV P-

•INITIALE

DrO.

NUMBEN

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

7026

CITE MEXI NUMDER

RXBAT REDWOOD LGIMPROVE

REF:

A. DIR 84837

01-62-24

B.

DIR 84885

C. DIR 84886

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM®

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

PARA LA REF A, STATION'S IMMEDIATE

KELY

DEFINITIVE CHECK INDICATES NO OTHER K

TRAVEL OUISIDE

MEXI, MOST RECENT LILYRIC REPOR

THRU 19 NOV SHOWS

KOSTIKOV AT SOV EMB EVERY DA

JO LILYRIC REPORTING 9-10

AND 16-17 NOV.) WILL GET

KOSTIKOY ACTIVITIES 2:

TING EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE

PLACING HIM UNDER LIEMBRACE

SURVEILLANCE.

2. PARA 2B REE A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVEMB

PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES 17 NOV TO DATE..

3. WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS ASAP.

4.. REF B, IMMEDIATE AND PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS

NO OTHER ALFERIEV TRAVEL. LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV

AT SOVEMB 6 THRU 19 NOV COSABINHNEE GRY ERAGE 9-10 AND 16-17 NOV.)

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000202

Loof 71

---

## Page 50

14-00000

The Attached document page 0000276:

is a

replacement page for 0000203.

0000203 is not to be destroyed or

taken

out of

the original package

that it is included

In.

Document

0000276 may

be inserted in front

of document

0000203.

(17)

DISTR.:

DATE:

FILE:

TO

Page 2.

OTG.

DEFERRED

NUMBER

INITIALS

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERAT

IMA

" INFO.

CITE

7024

NUMBER

5. COVERING. ALFERIEV ACTIVITIES SAME AS WITH KOSTIKOV.

WILL PLACE HIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP. -

6. OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S CONNECTION

WITH SOV AND CUBAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE.

HOWEVER,

STATION STAFF COMBING ALL AVAILABLE MATER

7. STEPPING UP RECEIPT ALL INÇOMI

NO MATERIALS COVERING

•SOVEMB, TRYING GET LIFEAT

BRAGE OF SWITCHBOARD OF APT.

BUILDING WHERE RESID

ZANTSEV, SUSPECT KGB RESIDENT

/

KONSTANIYOV AND SUSPECT GRU SCHUCHKIN, HAVING LIPAWN REPORT

MOVEMENTS SIDOROV AND MAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST

S1). INCOMING LIFEAT ON KGB KUZNETSOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP..

8. PROBABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY TAPES

*ERASED. HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES LIENVOY

CENTER, SEP CABLE PROVIDES VERBATIM TRANSCRIPTS.

END OF MSG

"-!?

AUTHENTiEfING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLISSFIENYON

OUTGOING

0000276

RELEASING SFICER

---

## Page 51

14-00000

ORle.:

EXT.:

DISTR:

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

Page 2.

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERPED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

•INITIALO

• DrO.

NUMBEN

INITIALO

INFO.

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL.

CITE

HUNDER

REPEAT ONE

3. PÄRA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECI

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCI BUI NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

4.

MAKING EVERY EFFORT DETERMINE OSWALDS &

END OF MSG

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITER

VITIES

is it, 'no.

RBR

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000203

WCC

RELEASING OFFICER

27.0F71

---

## Page 52

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

37)

ROUTING

TO

• DIRECTOR

CS COp

DOC. MICRO

SER

DEG.4 1914

MICROFILMED

6

FROM • MEXICO CITY

ACTION:

ND. COPY SLOTTED AT: 1700 23 NOV WB)

(MR WHITTEN; WH, MR. BALLEY,, SR, AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED

INFO DEI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/F| 2, G/SR 5A868A8s SAPleSh 3rA

XX

RECRET 2328342

The Pallo!

authored Jians

IMMEDIATE DIR GITE MEXI, 7025

CEISSIFICATION

Signed:

LIENVOY

CONDUCTED ON.

& APH Y97

R.O: #I - UnItCHES

, REF

DIR 84886

E/AZIMPOET CL BY 0/3209

23 Ho 63 W167 188

If desiration.

Fitzes

FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE.

reasons and coordinate

SITI FRESRI

11 appropriate.

ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1983 LLENVOY REPORTED FOL: "ENTRADA MF DEL

CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN. SU CONSULADO ESTA

UN

NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVO. ALLI EN LA EMBAJADADA RUSA.

-8

ESPERE UN MOMENTO.

MF ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA IN

ON ALGUNA

PERSONA FUERA: Y. COMENTA EN ESPANOL QUE LA PUSSE

TELEFONO A

APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL 14 12 99

A LE DICE SOBRE EL

CLUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO. Y QUE LES

RELAR.

HE HABLA RUSO.

HD LE HABLA EN INGLES. " SILVI

TASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU

SPEÄK RUSSIAN?" "THEN WHY DONT YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN

TAKES PHONE AND SAYS IN BORKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN

YOUR EMBASSY AND

SPOKE TO YUOR CONSUL. JUST A MINUTE." MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS

NORIHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT?

NORTHAMERICAN:

fo: FOlA Review on

AP.R 1976:

"PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN"• SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?"

Document Number Al- 550

NORTH

AMERICAN: *I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY TOOK MY

ADDRESS. " SOVIET: "I KNOW THAT." NORTHAMERICAN: "I DID NOT KNOW

D: 200=5-41

201-289248

7201-740720

550

CS. COPY!

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

23.20063

Copy No

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

0000204

28 0F71

---

## Page 53

14-00000

CLASSIFIED' MESSAGE

IN.

PAGE

2

I THEN.

IWENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK THEN FOR NY ADDRESS

ECAUSE THEY HAVE IT." SOVIET:

"WHY DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE

OUR. ADDRESS WITH US. IT IS NOT FAR FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY."

ORTHAMERICAN: "WELL I'LL BE THERE RIGHT AWAY." DOUGLAS jO

EINGLASS NOTED NORIHAMERICAN SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE

USSIAN.

• ON ONE OCTOBER 1963 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET EMB AND SAID

HELLO THIS IS LEE OSWALD SPEAKING:

I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST

ATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID THAT THEY'D

END A TELEGRÁM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND OUT IF YOU HAVE

INYTHING NEW? BUT I DONT REMEMBER THE NAME OF THAT CONSUL.".

¡OVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV: HE IS. DARK. "

10: "YES.. MY NAME IS OSWALD." SOVIET: "JUST A MINUTE I'L

IND OUT. THEY SAY THAT THEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED ANYTHIN

10: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES THAY ASE

10: "AND WHAT..?" SOVIET HANGS -UP

IQUES HAS BEZ SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS ARe WED.

AS YET."

4.

DOUGLAS. DO FEINGLASS! WHO-DI

RIPTIONS SAYS OSWALD IS

IDENTICAL WITH PERSON PARATONES

LEAKING BROKEN RUSSIAN WHO CALLED

FROM CUBAN EMBASSY 28 SEPTEMBER TO SOVIET EMBASSY.

C'S Corient: #Requested Station review all LIENVOY (1) tapes and transs

since 27 Sept, to locate pertinent information on Oswald.

0000205

B500T

29 0F 71

---

## Page 54

14-00000

309130.1

(14)

ORIG.:

R. B. RIGGS

EXT.:

DISTR.: • COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

INMEDIATE

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO,

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET.

CLASSIFICATION

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILER P-8583

Silvia DURAN P

INITIALO

DIO.

KOSTIKOV P-

NUMBEN

TACIA, HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999 ITE

MEXI. =7025

..RYBAT LIENVOY

DUP OF

609-

irg

REF: DIR 84886

1. FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPIS AVAILABLE.

2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIENVOY REPORTED

ME DEL CONSULADO DEL. CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE

ESTA UN NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVOY

RUSA, "UD QUE ESFERE UN MOMEN

NIRADA

I SU CONSULADO

EN LA EMBAJADADA

ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA

INGLES CON ALGUNA PERSOL

VERA Y COMENTA EN ESPAÑOL QUE

LA PUSIERON TELEFONO A APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL

14 12 99. SILVIA LE DICE SOBRE EL CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO Y

QUE LES VA A HABLAR. HE HABLA RUSO, HD LE HABLA EN INGLES. "

SILVIA DURAN ASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU SPEAK RUSSIAN?" THEN

"WHY DONT YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN TAKES PHONE AND

SAYS IN BROKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND SPOKE TO YOUR

CONSUL," MAN IN SOV EMB "JUST A MINUTE," MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS

NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN:

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

0000206

CLASSIFICATION

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

5

30 0P 7!

---

## Page 55

14-00000

(14)

DRIG.:

PYSTR.:

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

PAGE 2.

LASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

INITIALS

DTG.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBEN

INITIALS

INFO.

СІГЕ

7225

NUMBER

"PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN"'. SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?"

NORTHAMERICAN: "'I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY

TOOK MY ADDRESS." SOVIEI: "IXXX KNOW THAT." NORTHAMERICAN:

"I DID NOT KNOW IT THEN, I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK

THEM FOR MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THEY HAVE IT." SOVIET:

DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WIT

T IS NOT

FAR FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY, " NORTHAMERI

WELLIILL BE

THERE RIGHT AWAY." DOUGLAS I. FEINGLA

TED NORTHAMERICAN

•" SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZA

SSIAN®

3. ON ONE OCTOBER 1963

HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET

EMB AND SAID "HELLO THIS IS LEE OSWALD SPEAKING, I WAS AI YOUR

PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID

THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM IO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND

OUT IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING NEW? BUT IDONT REMEMBER THE NAME

OF THAI CONSUL." SOVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOY): "KOSTIKOV:

HE IS DARK," MO: "YES. MY NAME IS OSWALD.," SOVIET: "JUSI A

MINUTE I'LL FIND OUT.

TEEKDA ILA FICEHEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SHOUT

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000207

31

UF 71

---

## Page 56

14-00000

(19)

'RIG.;

XT.:

MISTR.!

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

Page 3.

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

DIG.

NUNBEA

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

TOL'

NUNSE

ANYTHING YET. MO: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES

THEY SAY THAI A REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS

BEEN RECEIVED AS YET." MO: "AND WHAI..?"

SOVIET HANGS UP.

4. DOUGLAS I. FEINGLASS WHO DID TRANSCRIPTIONS SAYS

OSWALD IS IDENTICAL, WITH PERSON PARA ONE SPEA

BROKEN

IMBER TO SOVIET

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENREFING OFFICER

0000208

RELEASING@EFICER

OUTGOING

- 7!

' cite no.

---

## Page 57

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO.

I. DIRECTOR

DOC. MICRO. SEL

DEC 4 1974

MICROFILMED

ROUTING

FROM i MEXICO CITY

CS COPYI

ACTIONS C/WH. 5 (MR. WHITTEN,) WH MR. BAGLEY, SR AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED AND

INFO. " DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP,

; C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2, VR

•SECRET 232845Z

INMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7028

23 Nou 63 16 7 1 87

REF

MEXI 7025 (IN 6T/88.)*

1. COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SEE LITENSOR 23 NOV.

2.

COS THOUGHT WOULD BE FOR (LITENSOR EXPRESSION

CONDOLENCE

WER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED

THAT LIENVOY BHAD LOCATED CALL. TO SOVIET

EMBASA

LEE OSWALD

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER.

'3.

BELIEVE FACT THAT(LITENSOR) AWAR

JOINT OPERATIOND AND PASSED D

HIS

CONTACT. (FROM

OUR

COS IS IMPORTANT.

SECRETA.U

CS Cominent: *Forwarded a

of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

fires

RECORDS OFFILER STAMP

stion 15

authorized:,

EL IMPOET CL BY C/32

4

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 197

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

Note:

CS COPY:

1: 264-5-41

Document Number -

58-549

519

for FOlà Revie: on

AP.R 1976

signed:

R.0. #1 - Unit CICAS

If destruc

• 407:

cite

Teas0ns and coordinate

if apprcyriale.

201-289218

23 Nort

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

faciadad 1.0

do-egrod.

dosionicsorior

Copy No.

0003209

330F 7!

---

## Page 58

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

TO: (Omeer designation, room number, ond.

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

1.

SCOTT

2.

WHITE

INTERNAL

•USE ONLY

C: IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

EXTENSION NO.

DATE

Mei, 7:22

SECRET

OFFICER'S

INIMALS

FORWARDED

NOV 2 3 1968

COMMENTS (Number ouch commons lo

show from whom

so whom.

Drew e line across column after eoch comment.)

DUP OF

May 23

REPRODUCTION PROHIBREN

549

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date:

2/2003

To do Mess

Litinson 8

11.

12.

13.

1A.

15.

FORM

3-02

0000210

610 USE RENOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

340F 71

---

## Page 59

14-00000

ir.s:

1.1!1

(14)

IRIG.:

COS

¿XT.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

'I/STR.:

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DEFERRED

DTG.

DATE:

23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

@-8593;

LITENSOR P

LIENVOY/Prod

NUMDen

ROUTINE

XX

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

7020

CITE MEXI NUMBER

KAPOK

REF: MEXI-7025

1. COS HAD URGENI CALL TO SEE LITENSOR 23 NOV.

2. COS THOUGHT WOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION

,CONDOLENCE OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT PYELOPED THAT

MADE ON Z8 SEPTEMBER

LEAVOSE AD LOCATES CALL TO SOURDINAT

POF LEE OSWALD

3. BELIEVE FACT THA

ISOR AWARE OF THIS CONTACT

FROM OUR JOINT OF

AND PASSED DATA TO COS IS IMPORTANT.

END OF MSG

DUP

56.549

0000211

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

W.C.C

RELEASING OFFICEF

35 0F 71

---

## Page 60

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

).

/ DIRECTOR

OM & MEXICO CITY

DOC. MICRO. SER

DEC 4

19/4

MICROFILMED

ROUTING

4!

ES COPY

CIA SPHOTAL COLL HOTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

TION: C/WH 5. .

(MR WHITTEN, WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 8715 23 NOV WB)

F0 7 DCI, D/OCI, DDP, ADDP,

c/FI Z, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/0S:2, VR

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

*E•^ FT 2320482.

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7029

author 1402 an

Stened: 1 Hait

R. 0. #1 - Unte (JOSS.

HA63N67190:

REF. A. DIR 84888*

Note:.

If dertructton.

Bo MEXI 7025(1N067188) *4

reasons and:

1l apprage

la SAW PHOTOS OF LEE OSWALD ON TELEVISLO

OF 22 NOV AND IT

DALLAS. THOTOS

OBVIOUS PHOTOS SENT TO DALLAS WERE NUE DEN WITH LEE OSWALD HELD

DALLAS, DATES ARE AS GIVEN ON

MEXI STATION REVIEWING ALL AVAILABLE PHOTOS PERSONS ENTERING:

SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES.

3. MEXI SUGGESTING TO LITEMPO 2 THAT SILVIA DURAN WHO

MEXICAN ELIPLOYEE AT CUBAN. EMBASSY AND WHO PUT LEE OSWALD. ON

TELEPHONE FROM CUBAN EMBASSY TO TALK TO SOVIET EMBASSY ON 28 SEPT

BE ARRESTED IMMEDIATELY AND HELD INCOMMUNICADO UNTIL SHE GIVES

ALL DETAILS OF OSWALD KNOWN TO HER.

(SEE REF 'B)

40 LITEMPO 2 CAN SAY DOF.S, COVERAGE REVEALED CALZ TO HIM IF HE

NEEDS TO EXPAIN.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED. ON.

1•6 AP.R 1975

ELEAMPDET CL BY 0 1.2208

CS Comnients:

*Photos sent from Mexico City were not those of Lee Osward.

**Forwarded a review of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

201289248

0:200

J-41

Document Number.

IS BORY

23710063

- For FOlA, Review on APR 1976

• SECRET

REPRODUCTION. 5Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

0000212

36877)

---

## Page 61

14-00000

I DIRECTOR

DOC. MICRO.

SERT

DEC 4

1974

MICROFILMED

FROM & MEXICO CIT

ACTIONi C/IH 5 (WH AND OS NOTIFIED

INFO • DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP

CLASSIRIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

CIA HISTORICAR REVIEW PROGRAM

GiS COPYI

RELEASE IN FULL X:

1999

COPY. SLOTTED 1930 23 NOV BP)

4-4

The fallawr

2322462

INMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7033

SES

authorired:

11e2-n

23 NOV 63 IN 6 7 2 3 2

Signed: I

Danta

0.#1- Ualt E7005

Note:

If destruction.

cite

REF

MEXI 7825 (N.671T6)*

reasons and coordinate

1f appropriato.

1. FOLL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY OSWALD:

.. FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF-WOMAN OUTSIDE; HF-MAN OUTSIDE

MD-WOMAN INSIDE; HD-MAN INSIDE®

A. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT

LLAM NDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO SACER UNA

HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LLAME AL 15 GD 55

FUERA: PIDE LA DIRECCION.

HOMB

B. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63

HOMBRE

IR A ODESA.

'IDA AL CONSUL. MOMBRE

RO:

SE LA PROPORCIONA. "

• SOV CONSULATE 1605 HRS "ENTRADA.

MF DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA ALLI UN CIUDADANO AMERICANO

QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA

LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PORQUE

ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE LA EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS

LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUSANOS TAMBIEN

SE LA DABAN SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A. EMIGRACION

EN CUBA Y

ERZIMPDET OL BYULLERO FOLA Review or

"APR

CLASSIFICATION ARVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976fument Number

QUIERE _SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABE TAMPOCO CON

QUE PERSONS Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA PROBLEMA.

P1202-5-41

546

G3 COPy

201-257.248

SECRET

?3Nou6)

do-ayrof.o

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0000213

---

## Page 62

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 67232

_ PAGE 2

LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO, ME IS SILVIA DURAN DEL CONSULADO DE

CUBA Y EXPLICA LO MISMO A OTRO MD.. ESTE LE DICE QUE LE DEJE SU

TELEFONO Y SU NOMBRE PARA QUE DESPUES LE LLAMEN, SILVIA SE LO

PROPORCIONA ASI COMO EL TELEFONO 11 28 47, Y QUE APIOVECHA CONO COSA

PERSONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA PODIDO AVISAR

PARA QUE LE ENVIEN, EL BOLETIN Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DAR. HD

LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOURKHARENKO

PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE

LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO O AGREGADO CULTURAL. SILVIA DICE

QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA Y. LE LLAMAN AL 14 13

260:

HD QUE GRACIAS.

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV EMB TO

11 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE AMERICANO.

SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA. HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS QUE LES MOSTRO E

• DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO

•TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA, PERO TODAVIA NO

SE HA

DO

LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO A SU PROBL

ESO

SEGUN

LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO O CINCO MESES

•PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE PREGUNATA

DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO SIN PRE

IN

TENER ESE

EN NO

SE LE PUEDE

A WASHINGTON PERO SEGUN

ESTE SENOR LE MOSTRO UNA CART

•QUE ES UN MIEMBRO DE UNA ORGANIZACION

EN FAVOR DE CUBA Y HA

DICHO QUE ELLOS LOS. CUBANOS NO PUEDEN

DARLE EL VISADO SIN EL VISADO RUSO Y AHORA HD NO

SABE QUE HACER

CON EL, PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON

SILVIA QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO

•CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE: EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA; PORQUE COMO

EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO RUSO

0000214

389F 71

---

## Page 63

14-00000

CLASSITED MESSAGE

IN.

_PAGE ?

EN CUUA Y YA DE ALLA IRGE A LA MISS, AD QUE LA COSA ES QUE SI SU

ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN MASILINGION PERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA EL

VISADO. O EL PERMISO DE LA UNSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,, ELLA VA

A'RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE VISADO ELLA

PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A CUALQUIER LUGAR ESE PERMISO POR EJEMPLO AQUI

O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR, PERO AMORITA NO LAS

TIENEN. SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE TAMPOCO SE LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARTA

PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU VISA SERA APROVADA. HD QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAN

EL VISADO SEGUN LAS INDICACIONES. SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA

EN SU PLANILLA. HD QUE TAMPOCO NO SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERDONÉ

POR LA MOLESTIA. SILVIA QUE NO HAY CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS. ".

D: ON 1 OGI 63 CALL AT 1631 HRS TO SOV MIL ATT IN BROKE

RUSSIAN:

• "HELLO.

I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TAL

JUR

• CONSUL.

THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM

NGTON

AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHIN

SOVIET:

"I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU TO CALL ANOTHER

UMBER. " MAN OUTSIDE:

"PLEASE." SOVIET: "PLEASE WRIT

15 6A 55 AND ASK FOR A

CONSUL. " MAN OUTSIDE: "THANKYOU." SOVIET: "PLEASE. "

E.¿ ON 3. OCTOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OUISIDE: SPEAKS

IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO. VISA FOR

RUSSIA. "

SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE." MAN QUISIDE:

"I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA." SOVIET: "PLEASE, CALL

ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL." MAN OUTSIDE: "OH, THE CONSUL, "

SOVIET: "THAT'S RIGHT, 15. 6D 55." MAN. OUTSIDE: "ONE MOMENT PLEASE,

I'LL HAVE TO GET A FENCIL TO WRITE THE NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSUE

2101-289248

0000215

39 oF ll

---

## Page 64

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN....

0/232

PAGE 4

THE VISA THERE?" SOVIEI: "THAT DEPLIDS ON YOUR CONVERSATION.

I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS. PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL

AND ASK YOUR QUESTION." MAN OUTSIDE:. ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE

TELEPHONE AGAIN.

SOVIET: GIVES THE NUMBER TO HI AND TELLS HIM

TO ASX FOR THE CONSUL OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO.

MAN OUISIDE:

"IHANKS."

CS Comment:

*orraided a review of LIENVOY (I) transcripts.

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

0000216

400871

---

## Page 65

14-00000

• UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACHON COPY

TO; (Officer designation, room nimber, and

building)

SCOTT

WHITE

THAL

ONLY

CONFK ITIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD. SHEET

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

NO.

MEX

7033

DATE:

DATE

NON 2 3 1963

OFFICER'S

•OMMENTS (Number each comment lo show. from whoi

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

to whom.

rom a line across column after ouch commens

NOV 2 3 1983

55-546

NO! 2 3 1963

PROMBITED

"End a calfon

TREPRUDUCTION

pasture

I tail gack

What ins

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

15

FORMA

3-62

610 USEDPRONG

PREVIOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

P-8598

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

0000217

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

41 OF 71

---

## Page 66

14-00000

:XT.:•

DISTR.:

TO

R: B. RIGGS

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XX

IMMEDIATE

CCRSSIFIENTION

DATE:

FILE:

23 NOVEMBER 1963

@-8593

LIENVOY/Prod

NUMBEN

'''Ã HISTORICAL REVIE" PROGRAM

INITIALS

RELEASE IN FULL

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

130

- MEXI

RYBAT

55-546

REF: MEXI 7025

1. FOL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY

OSWALD; FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: ME - WOMAN OUTSIDE; HE -

MAN OUTSIDE: MD WOMAN INSIDE; POR HD- MAN CLASIDE VEL

A, ON 2T SEPTEMBER 63 CALI TO SOV

"ENTRADA.

HOMBRE LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESARI

UNA VISA PARA IR

A ODESA, HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LI

CONSUL. HOMBRE FUERA:

: AL 15 60 55 Y QUE PIDA AL

DIRECCION. HOMBRE DENTRO:

SE LA PROPORCIONA®

B. ON 27 S

EMBER 63 CALL TO SOV CONSULATE 1605,HRS

"ENTRADA. ME DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA ALLI UN

CIUDADANO AMERICANO QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA

EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER

CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PARQUE ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE

LA EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000218

420871

---

## Page 67

14-00000

(')

RIGi

iT.:

STR.:

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

Page 2.

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INITIALO

DTO.

NUMBEN

PRIORITY

OPERAMONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALD

INFO.

CITE

1138

NURDEN

LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUBANOS TAMBIEN SE LA DABAN

SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A EMIGRACION EN CUBA Y

QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SÁBLE

TAMPOÇO CON QUE PERSONA Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA.

PROBLEMA. HD LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. ME ES SILVIA DURAN

DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA Y EXPLICA LO MISMO A Q

ESTE LE

DICE QUE LE DEJE SU TELEFONO Y SU NOMBR

LLAMEN. SILVIA SE LO PROPORCIONA

QUE DESPUES LE

NO EL TELEFONO IL 28 47,

Y QUE APROVECHA COMO COSA

TAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO

DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA P

VISAR PARA QUE LE ENVIEN EL BOLETIN

Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DAR. HD LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOUKHARENKO

PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO

O AGREGADO CULTURAL, SILVIA DICE QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA

Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 1Z. 26. HD QUE GRACIAS. "

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT: 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV

EMB TO I1 28 47:

'"HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE

AMERICANO. SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA, HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARIAS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000219

430F71

---

## Page 68

14-00000

T.:

ISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 3.

CLASSIFICATION

FILE:

DEFERRED

INITIALS

DIG,

NUMBEN

INITIALS

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

CITE

7923

NUNDER

QUE LES MOSTRO DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA

'URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA PERO

TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO

A SU PROBLEMA, PERO ESO SEGUN LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO:

O CINCO MESES PERO SIN TENER ESE PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE

PREGUNATAR Y MAS BIEN NO'SE LE PUEDE DESPACHAF

SIN PREGUNTARLE A WASHINGTON PERO SEGUN

UI EL VISADO

ENOR LE MOSTRO

UNA CARIA EN QUE ES UN MIEMBRO D

GANIZACION EN FAVOR

DE CUBA Y HA DICHO QUE ELLO

BANOS NO PUEDEN DARLE EL

VISADO SIN EL VISADO

HORA HD NO SABE QUE HACER CON EL.

PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGION. SILVIA

QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, R PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE

COMO EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO

RUSO EN CUBA Y YA DE ALLA IRSE A LA URSS. HD QUE LA COSA ES QUE

SI SU ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON PERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION:

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000220

L4oF71

---

## Page 69

14-00000

1858. 1621

(1))

RIG.!

T.:

STR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 4.

SOOKLT

CEASSIFICATION

FLE:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

INMEDIATE

ANITIALD

NUMBER

INITIALA

INFO.

CITE

7038

INUNDENT

EL VISADO O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,

" "'

ELLA VA A RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE

VISADO ELLA PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A GUAL QUIER LUGAR ESE PERMISO

POR EJEMPLO AQUI O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR,

PERO AHORITA NO LAS TIENEN, SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE IAMPOCO SE

LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARIA PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU VIS

APROVADA,

HD QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAN EL VISADO SEGUN *

CACIONES.

SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA PATIO

PANILLA, HD QUE TAMPOCO

SE LE PUEDE DAR NINGUNA

* RECOMMENDACION PORQUE NO

SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERA

INE POR LA MOLESTIA, SILVIA QUE NO HAY

CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS, "

Lorg Distance

D. ON I OCT 63 CALL AT 1031 HRS TO SOY IL ATT IN BROKEN'

RUSSIAN: "HELLO."I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED

TO YOUR CONSUL. THEY SAID THAT THEY 'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO

WASHINGION AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?"

SOVIET: "I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU IO CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUMBER, "

MAN OUISIDE: ""PLEASE," SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITE IT DOWN 15 60 55

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING .

RELEASING OFFICER

0000221

45 5F71

---

## Page 70

14-00000

144)

XT.:

ISTR.:

TO

Page 5.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECKET

CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALY

DTO.

INITIALS

FILE:

NUMBER

INFO.

CITE

1U38

NUNDER

AND ASK FOR A CONSUL." MAN OUTSIDE: "THANK YOU." SOVIET:

"PLEASE,"

E. ON 3OCIOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OUTSIDE:

SPEAKS IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO.

VISA FOR RUSSIA, "' SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE." MAN

OUTSIDE:

""'I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA."

"PLEASE, CALL ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONS

N OUTSIDE:

"OH, THE CONSUL,"" SOVIET, "THAT'S RIC

"55."' MAN OUTSIDE:

"ONE MOMENT PLEASE, I'LL HAVE

A PENCIL TO WRITE THE

NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSI

ISA THERE?"' SOVIET: "THAT

DEPENDS ON YOUR CONVERSATION. I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS.

PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL AND ASK YOUR QUESTION. "

MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE TELEPHONE AGAIN. SOVIET:

GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM TO ASK FOR THE CONSUL

OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO. MAN OUTSIDE: "THANKS."

END OF MSC

RER

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING

ING OFFICER

OUTGOING

0000222

1! 0F 71

---

## Page 71

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

570-1444,

DOC. MICRO. SER

• DIRECTOR

ROM : MEXICO CITY

AS COPYI

DEC 4 1974

MICROFILNED

CHION... C/SR 5 MR BAGLEY SR NOL AND OS NOTIFIED AND COP SLOTTED TIRE EU NE

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADOP, C/CI, C/CI/OPS, C/FI, CA RECORDS DEFICER STAMP

The following action 18.

55iт 7 55 2322552

authorized: PEri

IMMEL ATE. DIR CITE MEXI 7034

Stened: 1: 21-22

# REDWOOD LCIMPROVE

R.0. #1 - Unit

CI0S5

REF DIR 87837 phase conversatio

liote:

cito

1. MORNING 22 NOV LIENVOY REPORTING SOVEMB NOR

Inate

20.

AT 125D HRS 22 NOV CUBAN CONSUL ALFRE

И КРАВА

DIAZ, ASKED

TO SPEAR WITH SUSPECT KGB PAVEL MANA

YATSXOV,

LATTER

APPARENTLY..- UNAVAILABLE AND

CODE CANE ON LINE WITH FOLI

CONVERSATION ENSUING IN FAMELIAR FORM "TU":

ping

• KOS:

FORGIVE ME FOR ARRIVING LATE.

MIR:

DID YOU RECOVER THE SUITCASE?

KOS: YES.

401

E/82 IMPDET CL BY 0/2208

NIR: THEN IT WAS ARRIVING ON THE OTHER TRIP.

YES.

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

CONDUCTED ON- 6 APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

Document Number

61

KOS:

• 1.

MIR:

I CALLED TO TELL YOU THE FOLLOWING, THAT REGARDING

THAT MATIER THAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT, TO SEE IF WE WOULD SPEND

IN CHAPULTEPEC PALK BECAUSE MY WIFE IS PREPARING SOME FOON TO

EAT THERE.

NOS: IN SORRY

BUT I'VE JUST MADE PLANS FOM

701-287248

ANOTHEA

I'D LENING THIS VERY DAY.

SO PLEASE FORGIVE ME FOR NOT DEIG

0:200-8-14

3S GORY

200-5-4

7.109

5-41

2315063

01

1234

NE RODUCHON SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROTE::?

470F11

0000223

---

## Page 72

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN _ 6/231

C2.P:0F

TO GO WITH YOU. CAT THIS POINT HOSTINGS IN ERROR ADDADOSCOE:

AS AZQUE, AND MIR CORRECIS

HIS. COMENT: MIR REPLACEO EUGELIN

AZCUE LOPEZ, FORMER CUBAN CONSULI.

KOS: HAVE YOU ALREADY IALKED WICH KGB OLEG MANSINO! TONS

NECHAPORENKO?

MIR: L'D LIKE TO TALK WITH PAVEL YATSKOV.

KOS: WAIT A MINUTE, HE'LL COME NOW.

MIR:

IF. HE'S BUSY I'LL CALL HIM LATER, BUT I'LL BE AVAILABL

FOR THE NEXT HALF HOUR AT TEL NO 11 28 47.

KOS: 0K.

CONTINUANCE LIENVOY SOVEMB REPORTING AFTERNER CUNOY

CABLED SEPARATELY.

REPRONICTION PRO-BT

CATALOLIT ACRIE

0000224

480571

---

## Page 73

14-00000

11G: R.L. EASBY

STR.:

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY.)

" CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

• CLARFLEASE IN EULL

: 1900

FILE:

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

P-8593

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INITIALS

DIG.

XX

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INITIALS

PRITY DIR

INFO.

DUP OF

CITE MEXI NUMBER

7U34

KA.POK

59-23

I. COMPLETE RECHECK PHOTOS ALL VISITORS TO CUBAN EMB

AUGUST THRU FIRST HALF NOV AGAINST GOOD PRESS-PHOTOS SHOWS

NO EVIDENCE OSWALD VISIT. SIMILAR BLANK AGAINST ALL SOVEMB

PHOTOS EROM I SEPT. NOTE ONLY VISIT WE KNOW HE MADE WAS CUBAN_

EMBASSY 28 SEPT, SATURDAY ON WHICH EMB CLOSED AT

VE HAVE

NOT HAD COVERAGE

IN FUTURE WILL REQUIRE

HALE DAY

PHOTO COVERAGE BOTH SOV AND CUBAN

2. CHECK MANIFESTS ALI

ARRIVING MEXI CENTRAL

AIRPORT FROM U.S. FAL

OSWALD ARRIVAL UNDER ANY LIKELY.

VARIANT HIS NAME. PASSING THIS INFO GOM ASKING THEY CHECK

BORDER AIRPOTS FROM WHICH OSWALD MIGHT HAVE FLOWN MEXICO

CITY. WE DO NOT GET MANIFESTS THESE DOMESTIC FLIGHTS.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

END OF MSG

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING ofFiCER

0000225

119 OF 71

---

## Page 74

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IT'S

1262--

ROUTIrI

UI: : 0/341 3

EXT : 5613

DATE: DA PONENER 1963

"10"

NEXICO CITI

FROM: DIRECTOR

DO INDEX

D'NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

AS COPY

Nov 24

13 3 2 263

CONF: WH 8

¡ES'OTHIE SECT DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INED: DEI, D/OCI, DOP, ADDP, CI, C1/OPS, FI, SR. 7, SAS 8, OS 2., VR

TO

IMMEDIALS MEXI

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONSTE DIR

84920

RELEASE IN FULL

FE BE NIC ALL THE TRATIC AND FADING THE SATIENT Q

SILVIA DURAN,

APORIANT QUESTION STILL PUZZLES US.

HES OSWALD WAS IN MOXICO CITY IN INTE

SKETBIES AND FARLE OCTOBER TO GET A SOVIET VISA AND A CUBAN TRANSIT VISA, DID HE

BAPY TO TRAVEL, TO CUBA RIGET MHAT, ALONE, OR HAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND THEN

RAVE POR CUBA, OR DID HE PLAN TO REURN TO THE STATES FIRST ANE

THEN LEAVE LATE

ALTHOUGHT APPEARS THAT HE WAS TEEN THINKING ONLY ABOLAVO RES

EFUL CHANGE OF

STRETCH TO THE SOVIET UNION, IT IS ALSO POSS

LE WAS GETTING DOCUMENTOO

TO MAXE A QUICK ESCAPE APTER ASSASSINATE

ESIDENT.

PLEASE. RESIUDY YOUR LIENVOY

EJAND GIVE US YOUR OPINION, AND ALSO HAVE

EXICARS DURSTICH SILVIA

CAREFULLY OY THES POINT.

ADVISE

END QF MESSAGE

65

Document Number

D:200-5-X1

for FOlA Review on

-25

APR 1976

ES COPTI

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED. ON 6. APR 1976

E/AZIMPDET CL BY 013308

201-289248

200-541

24Now63

THONAS H, KARAHESSINE

ДОР

ASINQ.

25

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CROUP I

gafgrading an

Seclassificatio

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

JOHN M. WHITTEN

.C/WH 3

AUTHENTICAIINO

Copy Ng

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

b00022

50 0F 71

---

## Page 75

14-00000

Toy 1303

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

DEFERREO

ROUTINE

TO

IMMEDIATE MEXI

LIENVOY

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

CLASSIFICATIÓN

INITIALS

DTG

INITIALS

JPE

INFO

241332Z

24 NOV 63

INCOMING NUMBER

6702

CITE

-DIRNISE

10 AFTER ANALYZING ALL THE TRAFFIC AND READIL

STATEMENT OF

SILVIA DURAN, ONE IMPORTANT QUESTION S

MUZZLES US. WHEN LEE

OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO CITY IN I

GERMBER AND EARLY OCTOBER TO

GET & SOVIET VISA AND A CE

ANSIT VISA, DID HE WANT TO TRAVEL

TO CUBA RIGHT AWAY, ALONE, OR HAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND

THEN LEAVE FOR CUBA, OR DID HE PLAN TO RETURN TO THE STATES FIRST

AND THEN LEAVE LATER- ALTHOUGH IT APPEARS THAT HE WAS THEN THINKING

ONLY ABOUT À PEACEFUL CHANGE OF RESIDENCE TO THE SOVIET UNION,

IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT HE WAS GETTING DOCUMENTED TO MAKE A QUICK

ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSINATING THE PRESIDENT®.

2. PLEASE RESTUDY YOUR LIENVOY MATERIAL AND GIVE US YOUR OPINION,

AND ALSO HAVE MEXICANS QUESTION SILVIA DURAN VERY CAREFUELY ON

THIS POINT.

ADVISE•

7il: 1-8553

24/13107

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000227

(16)

---

## Page 76

14-00000

FORM

1304

JRIG.:

R. L. EASBY

:XT.:

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW. PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL:

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

(44)

DISTR... COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

BECRET:

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALE

DIG.

DATE:

24 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE: 2-7976

2-8593

NUMBER

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

CITE MEXI -

7054

RYBAT

DIR:

A. MEXI 7046

B. DIR 84920

1. ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENTS REF

A. DURAN ARRESTED

DUP

94.565

PROHIBITED

WITH HUSBAND AND MEMBERS

OF FAMILY WHO HAVING P

L TAKEN TO JAIL.

•B. SINCE SHE

TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER

MEMBERS OF FAMILY ABOUT OSWALD VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME

AND SAW TV. PICTURE, SHE AXIRIBUTED ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY

COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIKE. THUS SOURCE GOM KNOWLEDGE NOT

REVEALED TO HER.

C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWLAD STAYED IN MEXI.

D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS STILL VALID FOR

USSR. HE TOLD HER WISHED RETURN THERE PERMANENTLY WITH WIFE.

E. DURAN HAD IMPRESSION OSWALD HAD OR BELIEVED HE

HAD MADE ARRANGEMENTS. IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS

MANNER

AUTIENTICATING OFFICER

_SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000228

520F71

---

## Page 77

14-00000

(14)

ORIG.:

XT.:

DISTR.:

TO

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 2.

CLISEIAEATTON

FILE:

DEFERRED

INITIALD

DTO,

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBLA

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

7054

NUMBER

B! WHICH WOULD NOT. HIMSELE HAVE TO VISIT SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS

REAL OR IMAGINED INSIRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED HIM

BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. (COMMENT: PARA IC OF

933

PARTIALLY BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DES

IN OSWALDS TALKS WITH SOVS.

• SIGNS RUDENESS

RETAILS DURAN INTERROGATION

MAY REVEAL OSWALD BECAM

FRUSTRATION BY SOVS.)

F. HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO COULD

NOT LIVE COMFORTABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISHED

RETURN TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN USSR.

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHETHER HE GOT USSR VISA OR CUBAN

TRANSIT VISA BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART IN IT.

H. IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY

•SHE UNAWARE.

2. REF DIR 3-1916 (IN 6687). ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN

RE LEAK AND HAS WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST

FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL

COORDINATING

RETAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES DICKED

OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000229

530F71

---

## Page 78

14-00000

• 1304

(

(14)

ORIG.:

EXT.:

DISTR.:

TO

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 3.

MOCRE'

ASSIFICATIO

FILE:

DEFERRED

INITIALT

DTO.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

7054

NUMBER

UP SAME TIME. COS WILL. CONTINUE PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH

ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE RELEASED BUT KEPT

UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE.

3. RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933 HO HAS FUT

PERTINENT CALLS. REGRET COMPLETE

BCRIPTS ALL

ICK SHOWS TAPES FOR

THIS PERIOD ALREADY ERASED

EN FEELING THAT ABOVE IS

BEST ANSWER OBTAINA

EF B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION

DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES.

END OF MSG

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASIETION

OUTGOING

0000230

RELEASING &+ FEER

540F71

---

## Page 79

14-00000

SERECT

ROUTING

4]

5

; DIRECTOR

FROM

NA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAN

DOC MICRO. SER

• MEXICO CITY.

RELEASE IN FUL

DEC 4

1974

ACTION SO/WEE

1999

MICROFILMED

DEL, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2, VIR

XXX

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

RECORDS OFFICER SIAHP

CONDUCTED ON E APR 197€

3NNRT. 24/18377

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7054

author!ted:

ELSSIMPDET CL DY 012208

KARE IMMEDIATE

Steadily. Mantra

TROY NE7378

REF" MEXI 7046 (IN 67278)*

R.0. #l - Unit /

® DiR 84920**

Tote:

If doctruction, cite.

reasons and coordinate

1o ADDITIONS OR AWENDMENTS REPS A: 1f appropriato.

18

A BUS ARRESTED AT HOME WITH HUSBAND AND MEMBERS OF FANTINO

"HAVING PARTY, ALL TAXEN TO JAIL.

B. SINCE SHE HAD TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER MEMBERS OF FAMILY

ABOUT JOSWALD VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME AND SAW TY PICTURE,

SHE AITRIBUTED

ARTEST TO DENUNCIATION BY COUSIN WHOM DOES NOI LIXE THUS COUME

KNOWLEDGE NOT REVEALED TO HER.

-565

C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWALD STAYED IN M

FOIA Review on

APR 1976

D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS

HER WISHED RETURN THERE. PERMANENTI

E. DURAN HAD IMPRESSION

MENTS IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY

VALID FOR USSR. HE TOLD

IFE.

201-289748

HAD OR BELIEVED HE HAD MADE ARRANGE-

ISTRUCTIONS WOULD BE SENT SOVEMB MEXI TO

FOIA

ISSUE SOV ENTRY VISA IN MANNER BY WHICH WOULD NOT

KIMSELF HAVE TO VISIT

SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS REAL OR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED

Review

HIM BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. & COMMENT: PARA IC OF MEXI 7933 PARTIALLY

BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS NO SIGNS RUDENESS IN OSWALDS TALKS

1: 200-5-41

B201-07.427 RODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

24N0063

Copy No.

Document Number..

0000231

55 0F71

---

## Page 80

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

RQUTING

5

TO

FROM

ACTION:

NFO

• DIRECTOR

WITH SOVS. FURTHER DETAILS DURAN

INTERROGATION MAY REVEAl

BECAME ABUSIVE. IN CUBAN EMB: AS RESULT HIS FRUSTRATIOA

Fo HER IMPRESSION. HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO

ABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISH

USSR.

WALD

OT LIVE COMFORT

TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHE

USSR VISA OR CUBAN TRANSIT VISA

BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART

IT.

H. IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY SHE UNAWARE.

1

2.. REF DIR 84916. ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN RE LEAK AND HAS,

WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL

BE LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED UP SAME TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE

PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE

RELEASED BUT KEPT UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE

3. RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933 HQ HAS FULL TRANSCRIPTS. ALL PERTINENT

PALLS. REGRET COMPLETE RECHECK SHOWS TAPES FOR THIS PERIOD ALREADY-

ERASED, STATION FEELING. THAT ABOVE IS BEST ANSWER OBTAINABLE TO:

EF B. BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES.

iF CaPE I

CIS COMMENT: *Echeverria told COS Duran completely cooperative and far:

written statement attesting to two visits by Oswald,

**Did Oswald want to travil to Cuba right away, alose,

:

his nito join him there and then leave sos Cula, or did le pla: lo rat" to

firsi and then leave later?

0000232

1560F21

REPRODUCIION iN OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRUHIUITED

Copy Nu.

---

## Page 81

14-00000

C UNCLASSLFIED

RHAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD

CONF

SHEET

iNTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Oplionol)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

EXTENSION

TO:

building)

(Officer designation; room number, ond

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

FORWARDED

INITIALS

MelI 7055-

DATE

NOV 2 5. 1963

COMMENTS (Number

soch comment lo shom from whorr

so whom.

Drem o line ocross column offer ooch comment.

1.

?.

WHITE

NDY 2 5 1963

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DUP

OF

8.

Phillips

REPRODUCTION PROMISSI

-33

25

1963

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORMA

9-07

P8593

STO USEREN

PREVIOU

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

U

: 0000233

UNCLASSIFIED

570F71

---

## Page 82

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECREF

ROUTING

TO

• 8 DIRECTOR

IS 0677

FROM I MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5 (WH COPY ISSUED 1300 25 NOV/OJ)

INFO.

DCI, D/DCI

C/SAS 5, D/OS 2.

DOP, ADDP, C/SCQ: 4, C/CA 2, C/CA/0.2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5,

EEGRET 25/17217

IMMEDIATE DIR

CITE MEXI 7055/

25 Noy 63 1:67 6.20

RYDAT

1. MEXI DAILY "EXCELSIOR" OF 25 NOV IMPLYING OWN INVESTIGATIONS RAN

STORY DESCRIBING OSWALD TRIP TO MEXICO 26 SEPT THRU 3: 00T. CROSSED

BRORDER AT LAREDO. VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY 27 SEPT AND NEXT

DAY. VEN TO

SOVIET EMBASSY. PURPOSE ALLEGEDLY WAS TO OBTAIN VI

IET UNION. THIS

NOT OUR LEAX. CANNOT ELIMINATE GOBERANCI

2. FYI: FRESUME HQS IS AW

1963. AT RECEPTION AT BRA

SOURCE.

STORY DATELINED HAVA Y SEPT

EMBASSY FIDEL CASTRO IS QUOTED: " WE

ARE PREPARED TO FIGHT THEM AND: ANSWER IN KIND. UNITED STATES LEADERS

SHOULD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS TO

ELIMINATE THE CUSAN LEADERS, THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE."

3. PARA ONE STORY WENT ROUSEDS OAFICER ANAP

authorized:

CLASSIFICATION RSVIEW

CONDUCTED ON1 6 APR 1,976

ElERtIPOET CL BY 012 208

Di 200-S

Document Number 39-33

for FOlA Review on

Startin

Signed:

R.0. F1 - Unit

CI/R+A

If destruction,

cite

reaseas and coordinete

In eppropriate.

201-289248

APR 1976

25N9063-

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

tarted od

Copy No.

58.0F.71

0000234

---

## Page 83

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

UNCLASSIFIED

•*ERNAL

ONLY

CONFE "NTIAL"

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Oplionol)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

EXTENSION

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Phillis

25.11096 N

2 5 1583

SECRET

NO.

WAVE 8149-6710

DATE

NOV 2 5 1963

COMMENTS (Numbo

eoch comment to show from whom

Draw e line acress column offer each commani.)

THIS CALL WAS

HEARD BY LOTS OF

PEOfLE

DUP

ODOCION PROHIBI

B.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-68.

SCOTT

WHITE

FEILES?

- PERNAPS WORTA

MENTIOINE AT STUFF

MEETING. - TO SHOW

NOW INSECURE

INTERNATONAL CILS

ARE,

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

0000235

UNCLASSIFIED

590F71

---

## Page 84

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGS

SECRET

ROUTING

rO

* DIRECTOR

3

FROM

• JANAVE

ACTION; SAS 8

NFO

• DDP, Cl,

Ci/0r5, FI, FM/INT, WH 7, VR

95-6RET 2522212

DIR INFO MEXI CITE WAVE 9149

TYPIC

25 06 63 1N67731

1. ODFOALi ADVISED WAVE THAT PHONE CALL FROM ONE JOSE SAN ANTONIO

CABACA IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186354) TO DR. EMILIO

NUNEZ PONIUONDO,

MIAMI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER 63. CONVERSATION WAS

AND GIST. OF. IT IS:' PLAN OF CASTRO CARRIED FORWARD

-WISH

SOON THE ATOMIC BOMBS WILL RAIN AND IHEY W

IS NEXT:

2.

WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS HE

WOW FROM WHERE.

0894201-312364.

NO RECORD CASACA. HOVEVER,

ISED CABACA IS FROBABLY JOSE

ANTONIO CABARCA SAINZ, DOB

1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CUSA:

CURRENTLY RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3000 AND HAS SAME PHONE

NO. PARA 1 ABOVE. HE IS NOW OCCUPIED WITH OSTAINING MEXICAN VISAS

FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUSA: HE IS PRONOUNCED SATISTIANO

AND RIGHTIST WITH TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN U.S. AND. HEADS THE

ALIANZA PAPA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICA.

CLASSIFICATION. REVIEW

3. LOCAL

COFDAY SEING INFORMED RE PAPA 2 INFO.

CONDUCTED ON

, 6 APR 1976

• T

ELSZIMPDET CL BY 0/2208

Document Number 101-5>3

for FOlA Review on

-i APR 1975

10781-289248

0000236

REPRODUCTION EY

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING ORSICETS PROKAAIMOO

Dupy tis.

600÷71

---

## Page 85

14-00000

D-UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

ASE ONLY

COM

jENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optionol)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

706.7

TO:

¡Oficor designation, room rumber, and.

building)

DATE

OFACER'S

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number ooch commens lo show from whom

to whom, " Drew a line across column after doch commens.)

2.

SCOTF

NOT 2 5 1963

WHITE

3.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW. PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

Resengisin

REPROBUCTION PROMIBITED

10.

11.

Phlips

12.

13.

14.

15.

610 USE PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

0000237

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

L

UNCLASSIFIED

610F71

---

## Page 86

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL:

CLASSIFIED 1099 GE

SECRET

03 007У

ROUTING

4]

• DIRECTOR

ROM " MEXICO CITY

ICTION, C/WH 5 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1430 26 NOV/LMG)

NFO i DEI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SAS 5, VR, D/OS 2, C/SR 5

SE9957 2618382

IMMEDIATE MANA INFO IMMEDIATE DAR CITE MEXI 7067

26 Now 63 IN 68291

1. AT THIS MOMENT STATION OFFICER AND LOCAL SECURITY OFFTCER

• ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN WHO CLAIMS THAT ON 18 SEPTEMBER

SAW

.. LEE OSHALD RECEIVE SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED. DOLLARS INVE

INSIDE CUBAN EMBASSY MEXI.

PROT

2. REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE MEXI OPIM

SRACES GIL BERTO

ALVARADO, BORN J1 JAN 1940 CIUDAD

DIDAYA, NICARAGUA. CLAIMS

HE AWAITING FALSE MEXICAN DOCUM

PON PRIOR RECEIVING SABOTAGE

TRAINING CUBA. SAYS JUAN LORILLO, ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS

FONSECA AMADOR. ARE MEMBERS HIS (COMMUNIST?) OR GANIZATION

NICARAGUA.

SEERIT

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following action 1e

authorized: DE SENSITIZE

Document Number 124-54

for FOlA Review on APR 1976

1: 200-5.41

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED D. 24 MAY 1976

_APDET CL BY DIZZES

Signed:

R. 0. #1 - Unst CI/REA

Hote:

II destruction, cite

0J0U238

re appropriate a 201-289248

11 appropilate.

8S COPYI

2076541

7622006}

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

barton teepa

Copy No.

L20F21

---

## Page 87

14-00000

1c.1

WAIT

IxI

DATE

JOULD M. WILTITIN

5613

9 DECEMBER 1963

widely

O INDEX

O NO IND:

OJ FILE IN CS FILE: NO,

CLASSINED MESSAGRE

STARLI

.12.02.

RONING

4

P DEC 63

817z

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C./WH 4

SIG CEN

DEFERRED

X ROUTINE

INFO: DEl, D/DCI, DOP, 6/C1, 6/C1/21, VR

TO

MEXI

INFO

RYBA GPFLOOR

CITE DIR

87770

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

REF:

MEXI. 7241 (IN 73638) *

TANS

PIS DO NOI ERASE ANY' SOVIET OR CUBAN TAPES UNTII. FURTHER NOTICE.

ADVISE HOW MUCH MORE TAPE YOU NEED

END OF MESSAGE

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEC 4 1974

MICROFILMED

C/S. Comment:*Station to erase routine tapes Soviet Embassy, keep-

ing normal two-week lag.

RECORD'S

Dias

PIS

PiD:

The

REPRODUCTION:

siane?:

Note:

lassis ti

-Hart.

sa."

CS COPY

reasons and

coordinato

1f appropriato.

201-289248

D-200-5-41

Document Number.

354-719

MAY 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1978

for FOlA Review on

By Direction of

RICHARD HELMS

DDP

RELEASING

OFFICER

- IMPDET C. BY 1.2201

COORDIMATING OFFICERS

Included lycm automalic

SHERET

priading and

reclassitication

AUTHENTICATIN

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date:

2/2003

0000220

63 oF 71

---

## Page 88

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG :::

UNIT

EXT:

DATE :

J.

M.

WHITTEN: Ca/

C/ WH/3

D INUEX :.

5613

D NO INDEX

340S071I

4 MAY 1964

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO

MEXICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

C/WH, 4

WEet

file

p00

12-62

ROUTING

137

SIG CEAS

CONg:

NFO :

DEFERRED

HE ROUTINE

DCS, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI, C/CI/SI, C/CIARA, VR

CIA SPECIAL COLLEOTIONS

MEXI

INFO

RELEASE IN FUEPR

08827

-RVAT GPFLOOR

WARREN COMISSION REQUESTS WE FURNISH FOLLOWING INTO:

106402ed sust dad

06. 10/

A.

BOURS WERN CUBAN AND SOVIET EMBASSIES AND

CONSULATES IN MEXICO CITY ARE OPEN TO PUBLIC:

then tradd

NORMAL WORKING HOURS.

THEIR PROCHDURES

FORMAL AND INFORMAL INVOLVED IN

HEIR

JLATIONS,

ERNITS FOR

TRAVEL, TO AND THROUGH CUBA

B. DESCRIPTION OP

MEXICAN GOVER

TEPRIRUCTION

OR AND ABUULATIONS ON

TRAVEL OF PBPRIME CITIZENS

TO AND THROUGE CUBA

2:

REQUEST MRXI CABLE SUMARY OF ALI. THAT CAN BE ASCERTAINED

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

END OF MESSAGE

1.0. #1 -ürit

CIRrA

¡oto:

:Is destruction,

cite

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriato.

Document Number

677-289

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

copy

to C1/R$A

201-289243

0000240

RAFORD

HERBERT

AC/WH

CS COPY

COORDINATING OFFICERS

JORN M.

FEITTEN

C/ WH/3

REHEASING OFFICER

GROUP 1

Escluded from attomatic

AUTHENFICATING

OFFICER

D-200-5-410 DUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Cope No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/20.05

640F71

---

## Page 89

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

-SECRET

ROUTING

TO

DIRECTOR

3

FROM & MEXICO CITY

ACTION:

c/vr 4

INFO "

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI,

gaggsus arICER STAMP

He Dread

Tue Los

anthoms.

11IT 01014T

DIR CITE MEXI 9332

326nd: • Hartu

TRY AT GPFLOOR

3.0. #1 - 01t CL/R+A

Note:

If dostruction, oite

REF DIR 18827%

reasons and coordinate

1. SOVIET EMB AND CONSULATE ÄRE

SULATE ARL TET OPEN TO PUBLIC. OFFICES

ARE IN COMPOUND ACCESSIBLE TO PUBLIC BY APPOINTMENT.

SOVIET GUARDS

ARE ON OUTSIDE GATE AROUND CLOCK. NORMAL WORK HOUR

1963

WERE B9GO TO 1800 BUI RECENTLY CHANGED G9RAS

OR HONDAY AND

FRIDAYS. SIXIEEN SOVIET FAMILIES LIX

COMPOUND. VISITORS RING

BELL AT GATE AT ALL HOURS.

RUSS

PEAKERS CAN GET IN ANYTIME.

OTHERS USUALLY TURNED .

ANAX

ARD AFTER HOURS:

SOVIETS ARE NOT

KNOWN

TO ISSUE PERMITS

*RAVEL CUBA.

2. CUBAN EMB AND CONSULATE IN SAME COMPOUND BUT HAVE SEPARATE

ENTRANCES, CONSULATE RECEIVES VISITORS FROM 1000 TO 1420 HOURS

MONDAY THROUCH FRIDAY. EMBASSY WORKING HOURS ARE FROM B90G IO 170G

HOURS SAWE DAYS BUT MOSI EMBASSY VISITORS USUALLY ATTENDED BEFORE

1402 HOURS, THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING SEPT 63-

201-289748

5. CUBAN EMB PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS FOR ISSUING PERMITS

FOR TRAVEL TO AND THROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORMALLY VALID FOR THREE

KONTHS FROM DATE OF ISSUE O PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY

Document Number 68.3291

for FÜlA Reylew dn

JUN 1976

2-200-5-41

-GECRET

REPRODUCTION.BY OTHER-THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Cour

Rosloded too, soot

•Homegrition and

Copy

No.

0000241

650F71

---

## Page 90

14-00000

See Sanitized Filo

G.

ELUBOAFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 27522 PAGE 2

-ster sterla copy of this de

REQUIRED, -BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA. APPLICANT COlPLETES VISA

APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, PERMISSION OFTEN OBTAINED

IN EXCHANGE OF CABLES BETWEEN EMBASSY AND MINREX HABANA. IN MANY

CASES VISAS ISSUED ON SEPARATE SHEET PAPER IN EFFORT CONCEAL FACT

OF TRAVEL.

4A MEXICAN GOVI PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PBPRIME

CITIZENS TO AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED. SINCE HAMA 20887 DATED 3 MAY

1

1963. PAPRIME CITIZENS WITH PASSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS.

ARE FREE TO

TRAVEL TO CUBA. PBPRIME CITIZENS CAN OSTAIN TOURIST CARDS

ROM

BEXICAN CONSUL HAVANA FOR RETURN VIA MEXICO.

C/S Comment, *Warrez Commission requested

and Soviet Embassies and Consulates in Mex

working hours; their procedures and rey

issuing permits for travel to and thro

PROT

K furrish hours wher Cuban

are open to public; their zormal

formal and informal trotred in

36 201

236102.1141:

0000242

SECRET

66. of 71

---

## Page 91

14-00000

Inside Washington

210ct 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War.

By ROBERT S.. ALLEN

cials .who

actively oppose

on has

yet to be

used

dismissal of such persons

liquid

And PAUL SCOTT

*Soviet

policies.

against

any

high

West.

from public office, at otb.

form.

Th

Titled "Soviet Strategic

ern

official, hundreds of

even having

•within se

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

er

times

Executive

The

suppressed

Action,"

the

KGB agents

covertly op-

them' "eliminated' physi-

•autopsy w

Central Intelli

CIA

docu-

erating outside of Russia

its

gence

cally.

use.

Agency

withheld

ment went into the shock

have

been

supplied with

"Such

activities

poisons ba

vital

intelligence

infor-

are

ing details of how agents

this

pocket-size,

gun,

only

known to be

undertaken

ed which

• mation from

the Warren

of KGB, the Soviet secret

waiting

orders

against other types

fect

until

Commission during its in-

-police, are trained to

do

from Moscow to

use it.

of

persons in the West, not-. after bein;

vestigation

sination.

the

o President

away with

Western lead-

The

Murder

Weapons

ably

defectors from the

thus allow

ers, including officials in

HIGHLIGHTS

of

the

U.S.S.R.

and.

from

other

to

be far 1

Kennedy.

the

U.S.,

and to

make

suppressed

intelligence

countries

of

the

Soviet

when

his

Despite

the commis

their deaths appear

due

estimate,

which is locked

kno

sion's written request for:

to: natural causes.

in a security area within

bloc.

recently reported

"A

all documents that might

source

ha

•One of the KGB's new.

the

tightly guarded

light

on the assas

are

CIA,

pneumatic

shed

ly

ation technique is

devised

assassination

as follows:

pocute an individ

poison

sination,

CIA authorities

wapons is "a: pnumati-

"It

has

been

repo

Juring

him

to

which

ice

leas

failed to turn over a na-

cally operated poison ice.:

that the

KGB

telephone, connect-

or other e

tional

intelligence

estl-

"atomizer,. which

leaves. to remove the

to a high-voltage wire,

_cause of d

mate

warning

that it

•10.

wound or: other: ex

Soviet interes

during a thunderstorm.

Congress

Kremlin policy to remove

from

public office by

asi

dence of the cause af

certain #eml

"Another involves

the

gators,

wh

sassination

death."*

3o me-

use

of

pistol

which

that

the r

Western offi-

While this deadly weap

forithe

projects a poison gas in : committee

apores

Documen

OTHER

gence

bious of

Co-ex-

istence

ress

the - Warren

that

Commis

Sion's

undings might

have

been

different

this-. CLA: estimate

and

"Diber.

documents.

sup

pressed by the State De

partment ind been avai

able for stay out that

They

out

the State Daparneat

suppressed evidence link-

ing

Oswald with one

Di

employes, who

ac.

cording to security. files,

"presented

Soviet

strong pro

Flews

every

question

that came up

• In

the Department's

U.S.S.R.

colantry commit.

tee"

while he was in

member.

Tais

Dificial's

State Department

pearer

name also

ap

the

address

pook of a suspected So

viet

agent

In

the U.S.

who

arrived

in

1943, ac

cording to - goverument

Elles.

Congressional investi-

gators

2150

have been

shocked to discover that

assassmation

nowir byradministration

otricials. to Speaker John

McCormack (Mass:),

next

.m. line to gucceed Presi

dent Johnson

While

FBI officials

warned Speaker McCor

mack, a

dedicated

antl

Commimist,

that he is on

the list of Western

offi

Tals feared tauthority

authority

aas shown the No. 2 man

in government

the - CIA

report

listing

these.

ise

•cret

Soviet assassination

methods.

Instead,

I c C orwack

learned about the report

only

recently

from con

gressional

probers

who

are tryng.

to - determine

why the

document has

been suppressed.

The investigators also

way the cA detes

determine

why the

assassination

pre

report

to

the State Department on

•Oswald's trip

to Mexico

City gave details only

of

the defector's visit to

the

Russian embassy

and not

the

Cuban embassy.

The

CIA did

not report

latter

visit

'untr

the

after

Kennedy's

In

Dallas,

manell

p- 8593

the caller fon the

Calan Smbar

6000243

675F71

---

## Page 92

14-00000

14-00000

0000244

Inside Washington

2Och 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

clais who actively onooss

on has yet to

be

used

dismissal of such

iquid

compressed

for security

And PAUL SCOTT

"Sovict

pollcies.

against

any

officlal,

high

went

"ROM DUNARE DIENCE.

- AT He

The

fas

port

that

hundreds of

times

within

seconds

dind

John

McCone

made

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Executive

Aclion,

KCB

agents

covertly

thes

autopsy would

not reveal

mention of

this

-The Central Intelli.

Agency

suppressed

docu-

ment went into the shock-

have

seen

Russia

physi

explosive

CANd

Non-trace able

warneal

sacre

supplied with

i poisons have been report

testimony

before

infor-

the

of how

the Warren

agents

this

"Such

' known to

actlvities

are

mallon train

of KGB,

the Soviet

awai

10-62199

Masainst

bee interes on

вурех

Set uch over hours

Warren

Commission.

Commission during its in-

police,

from

until

several

hours

While NcCone furnish-

the West, not-

alter beire acmimistered

po he commisgot

with

of the adens

with

Western lead.

The

Murder

from

"THE

thus allowing an assassin

J.5.

offleials in

and from

BETR

and

make.

HIGHLIGHTS

suppressed

S.S.R.

other

Soviet

when

ha has ve

scene

the CLA's secret

surveil.

dies

Leo

Who that'

sion's written request for

causes

which

knowledgeable

to natural

ne recently reported

days

dayyeyn sexico

exico City

One of the KGB's new-.

the

tightly guarded

nation technique is:

lore

the assassination

cluding

details

to These

shed

light

CIA

pnumati-

• individ-

amirezle

HANDLIN &

him

leaves

wound

contact with

SAING TO CUrA

operated

other

evidence of the

head KGB

agent in

Rional

intelligence

DE-HILLE

white wate

Soviet

embassy

the

mate

warning

that it

oe. nthep erik Soviet

Congressional

invastl

there

grip

SURE PIMING

Kremlln

olicy

affice

certain members of West.

involves

gators

who

have

asked

hit, of

CIA

chie

Bave

the Kremlin's as

18D1

public

100N0423N

wesern

#tranging

for, the

projects

on gas 'in

that

of

their

• committee

withheld

(CONTINUED ON 6-23)

• Documents

inttem."

intresa that

rion's

shave

this

other

docarents

Whilo FBi olficlala.d

warned

Speaker

Miodor

dedicated' untils.

he is o

the. list

ciats feared by. the Krem. M

government

file

p. 8543

competi

---

## Page 93

14-00000

DISPATCH

•CUSPENCY

PROCESSING ACHON

MARKEO FOR INDEXING

Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO.

NO INDEXINO REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

FROM

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROSKA ENO

SUBJECT

Chief, WH Division

O Lee Harvey OSWALD

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

-RELEASE IN FULL

MICROFILM

1999

Action Required: Please advise re negatives

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence,

Headquarters

like to determine whether the Station still has on hand

the negatives from which the prints available at Headquarters

were made of the unidentified "mystery man" coming out of

both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies.

on file,

If they are still

It is requested that they remain so, and that they

be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than

destroyed

11 the latter action is ever contemplated.

5, Brect

Elsie I. SCALETTI

HEAdQuARteRS

Request foR H

negAtives

of the unidentified

lEaving both the Souiet

EmbAssies

REPRODI

HIBITE

MAil"

CubAr

SAME AS

1061-964

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CSI02

201-289248

28 MAY 1957

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FGr-15488

DATE

CLASSIFICATIDN

GROUP 1

18

May

1967

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-289248

RI

Chrono

Oswald

(soft

file?

OFFICE

WH/1

declassilication

C. Buste V3 dela

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

COORDINATING

sas

EXT.

6954

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

4/B

4 5 г

Wet 1:2

0000245

ABSTPLE X

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/1

53

5/s

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

W. J. Kaufman

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

MFG. 1-88

69. 0f71

DISPATCH

---

## Page 94

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

-RELEASE IN FULL

1999

TO

I INFO.

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

FROM

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief, WH Division

A SUBJECT

Lee Harvey OSWALD

AOTION REQUIREO • REFERENCES

MICROFILM

Action Required: Please advise re negatives

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

the negatives from which the prints avallable at Headquarters

were made of the unidentified "mystery man" coming out of

both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies. If they are still

on file,

it is requested that they remain so,

and that they

be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather thay

destroyed if the latter action is ever contempt

lip of

1093-944

càS

міти

SCALETTI

dispatch,

we de berg

тря

CAS

34 16AY

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

for 1 Oct 1963. RisK.

3 2 17 C0A

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMW-15488

DATE

18 May 1967

CLASSIFICATIDHI:

comrading and

"Terhassiticallon

HOS FiLE NUMBER

201-289248

0-8593

C00U246

708F71

---

## Page 95

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

PHAL

¡ONLY

CONFK NTIAL

SECRET.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUREG;: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

ACTION COPY

NO.

MEXI 7034

DATE

TO: (Offleor designetion, room numbor, end

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

Scho

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Numbor eoch commons to show from whom

to whom.

Drom e line across column oftor soch commons.)

z.

DUP

59-23

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

PEPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

he're have broke

new added Patien

day work

P- 8593

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

C00U247

610 USEDPRONS

REVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

9708:71

---

## Page 96

14-00000

-..0ak0 41622758

SUBJECTI (Optionals

FROM

LOTION COPY

TO:

(Officor designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Than 7

2.

WHITE

3.

EXTENSION

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

MeXI

DATE

9332

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column after each comment.)

Dupof

693-291

REPROQUCTION PROMBITED

10!

Ipasture

12.

13.

15.

FORIA

3-02

Pheelyn

Fals

610 USEDTIONS

PREVIOUS.

Lee Harry OswAr?

(P.8593

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL: D

INTERNAL

UNCLASSIFIED

USE ONLY

0000248

---

## Page 97

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM SECRET

RELEASE IN FULL

1999.

Memo passod to Mie Papich if FBI 27 November 1963

with into aN pinto couciage afambassios

e have photographic coverage during daylight hours on the

UGH, Chimi, Grechoslovak and Fullah Ensbansics, Thra consulates

are located in the cinbussiorin thorofore the coverage si the

embasolca soulá include corelage cí thu cuasulator.

The photographic coverago li lee mentioned lastallations is of

i cantinuors rature during dayllt hours, lovager, vastes

condulasy dad nines facto t alierttag any photogran

guise tia the soverage ns de considered ar

$*C

onapluto, Der

clara lorelage do ast proda: e o.

Di all persons who antèr ar

meiel for identlication.

Ach lastallations.

fiss cranking

LaCHS On NOSTIOV, WO arE conVinCed

Joyond reasonable doubt that du is i itali alices of the kGli.

Contributing to this concluuion are his ausocisics, bis movemess,

his Merican and otser contscts an his cover poslion, as well an

ho lavolvernent in tha

operatio.,:

113 OTT DaT =0230n

so bellove that ba la connected with too 13th Dopastmost, KOST ISOV

was in closestine contact wis y

as defialtaly con-

flamed byag

parto Mentification) end arzauged

Document: Number 182-621

jorts in as U.S, with a kita colleges a Kos on le

for FOid Waviow on

APR 1976

RECORD COPY

1S39 E33)

PEES

CLASSIFICATION REVIEN

CONDUCTED ON 4 PAY 197õ

E_ IMPDET CL PY 0122UP

XAAZ

3590

JFK # 063

I copy of ?

0000249

N28 3i-1

Eº5. 1:3 103

CB BR 18, 1, 8N

St CH: (11)

REG

FET PRES

27501

201-287245

-SECRET

(D)

---

## Page 98

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DTG.

Girl Chraro: Ju

INITIALS

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

6582

DIR

INFO.

CITE

HIXT NUMBER

RUBAI GPFLOOR

RIDE:

DIR 28826

683

271

1. SOVIET EVE AND CONSULATE ARE NOI OPEN TO PUBLIC.

OFFICES ARE IN COl

POUND ACCISSIELE TO FUBLIC BY APPOLITEST.

SOVIEY GUARDS ARS ON OUTSIDE GATE

AROUND CLOCK. FORMAI, WORK HOURS SEP 1963 WERE 0900 TO 1800 BUT RECITY CHANGED

0300 TO 1400 MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY, SOV CONSULATE FREQUETILY CHANGZ. NOW OPIN

2200 IO 1300 VOIDAYS AND ISIDAYS, SIXVERY SOVISI PAMILIES LIVE IN COMPOUND.

VISITORS RING BELI AI GATE MI ALI, IXIRI HOUES.

BUSSIAN BUS

S CAN GET IN

ANYWINE, OTHERS USUATTY TURNOD AHAY EY GUARD AFTE

SOVIETS ARE NOT

KHONE TO ISSUE PERMITS FOR TRAVEL CUBA

200

CUBAN EMB AND CONSULATE I

JUND BUT HAVE SEPARATE. ENTRANCES.

CONSULTE ERCEIVES VISTIORS

TO 1400 HOURS MONDAY THROUGI FRIDAL.

EMASSY WOKING ECURS

SEI 0900 TO I700 HOURS SANE DAYS EUT HOST EMBASSY

"ISTORS USUALLY ATTENDED BEVORE 1400 HOURS. THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURUG

SEPT 63.

3. CUBAN DIB PROCEDEDS AND REGULATIOIS FOR ISSUING PERITIS FOR TRAVEI, TO

AND TEROUGH CUBA: VISAS FORMALLY VALID FOR TERMS MORTES FROM DATE OF ISSUE.

PRIOR AUFHORIZATION FEOM HABARA INVARTABLY REQUIRED BEFORE ISSUARCE ANY VISA.

APPLICATI CO-PINTES VISA APFLICATION FORN AT CONSULATE, PERMISSION OWLETT OBLAIRSO

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000250

---

## Page 99

14-00000

DEFERRED*

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

OTA.

NUMDEA

INITIALE

INFO.

-2.

CITE

NUNSER

3332

IN EXCHANCE OF CABLIS BEVERE ENASSY AND MINNEX HABANA. IN MAHY CASES VISAS

ISSUED UNI SEPARATE SHADI PAPER II EFFORI CONCEAL TACT OF TRAVEL.

H: BXICAN GOVI PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PRPRIME CINTZSES ID

AND JEROUCH CUBA UNCHANGED SIYCE FISSA 2088T DANED 3 HAY 1963. PEPPIE CITZERS

VIVE PASSPORAS AND CURAY VISAS ARE FREE TO TRAVEL TO CUES. PEPRIVE CITIEES

CAN OBTAII TOURTSI CARDS FROI MEXICAN CONSUL HAVANA FOR RETURI VIA MESICO.

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

BEIGES

iNTICATING OFFICER

BOCHOADENT

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

PUTGOING

0000251

NICCURTIS

RELEASING OFFICER

---

