# 104-10114-10015

## Page 1

104-10114-10015

SECRET

"6. Marah 1963

06

IODSORANDIE FORE

Oper Sontl Suppor

LITESTION

FusecT

$

SD/3, Mr.

03

Establiabmont of Post 08f100 Paollity 1a Her

ort City 1a the sam

06

" nettin

1. Thie saBoTandu will corva to confiña this offlonia torbal

request of 5 March 1963 that a post offlod box be establlahad la Fin

Jork C1tr Is the man of

as co addronãs ¿ the purpose of thia bor la to mapport the gover

story of. the four, conaddroneogs that they soolde in How Tork, Oty ei.

The name

toflatored with RID.

0b

driood thie date that the following post

offlos bor has booncopened in How lork Chiy qu requested 11 paragraph

I P. O. Boxl

I Church Street Station,

box will be corvided on à dally baulo.

tew York 8, lew 10rk.

anone with the return address of

All mall roosived at this box in the

Mard, Florida,

will be opened and the contente, which will be proparly addresced,

will ba ponted in llow lork City. Mall recaivod for any ons of the co

addresseen vill be put In another envelopa and called to lis. Jack Baman,

Boa

_Perrino Station, Miant 57, Plorida.

ho. Any Inquirios should bo direatod to M. P. LASTIC, SAB/SocIty,

0xt. 5909.

15D.3.90

BO! ARD

*Chief,

/Suppo

253233.

SECRET

Excited lica automallo

do pilar and

•3-91919

12/21

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Ho regletered, firat Class and afr mily-bearing the

above addrens on a retura aldress, mmy be uniled by you it any

conventent letter bor in the area where this facility 1n estab

Ilshed. Negistered mil and parcel post should be fourded

to this Office for secure mailing. Any mall having apecial

security significance should be coordlanted with thin Office

prior to ma1ling. Hall bearing the above address as a return

address should not be handled by the Central Mail Race.

5. It te requested that you advise this Orfice when the

above addrens Is no longer of use to you. May inquirien concerning

this facility should be directed to the S0/3 Desk of thie urfice,.

Room CE T3 Headgurter, extension 6851.

FOR THE DIRECTOR CE BECURITY:

Wetor. R. Walte

cc:

02

$256 385

#115 532

4253333

CaW

11 March 1963/PENDING

2

---

## Page 3

7 23 34

"HEADQUARTERS

DATE

TO

@ #

SUBJECTE

Aả tient Ye Cherise

06

Case No.

E.

TYPE OF

P.O. BOX ACTION REQUESTED

ORNOLDER

ESTABLISH

ADD

CO• ADDRESSEE

CO• ADDRESSEE

CANCEL

1047

OTHER

RUCTIONS

to 2.

DS/10S PER VER

ASSN/TOS

RÉPORT ON P.O. BOX SERVICE

REPORI CATEGORY

Consel, -Investigative Division

I COURATEO ACTION

ACCOMPLISHED

•ACTION ACCOMPLISNED MY (NANO)

AME

C/1

C7313

C/S B

250-3

вож но.

CITY

C88,

06

1255

303

2119

552

(333

293

6 Karan 2509/Farge2

AATS

FILES

Porfiles 253233

$ 80

1784

6 MAR 1953

REFERENCE

LOCATION OF BOX: SAS

SERVICING SCHEDULE

118y

# UBMIT

INTERIN REPOMI

OOC FINAL

REPORT BY (Date)

C b3 6

DATE

#TATE

13/6/653

CABA

---

## Page 4

4253233

HEADQUARTERS

DATE

TO

* SUBJECT:

See girl

Charge

06

6 MAK 1963

Case No.

203 893

E

SB/3

TYPE OF P.O. BOX ACTION REQUESTED

NAME OF BOXHOLDER

REFERENCE

ESTABLISH

subjeci

Hige. telephonie

roguest

5 March 1963

ADD

CO- ADDRESSEE

CO- ADDRESSEE

LOCATION OF BOX 345

Church Street Statior

How York & How Sori

SERVICING SGHEDULE

CANCEL

C

PAgUEL DIAZ-ISALGUS

SUBMIT

OTHER

INTERIM REPORT

OOC-FINAL

REPORT BY (Date)

D

06

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS 1O

Mall received in the name of

retura addreas 056L

Pasta tic

Mian, Florida

chould be openej ses

the contents, which van be propefly addressed, should be posted 1m Her Y0Ii.

Mas received for the co-naressess should ge put in anothcr

envelope and miled to Mie dach milla, PoO. LO

perrine Statio,

DDS/IOSzeturn aadress or

man 51, marione zac envelope shoul be sent of mud and beer the

ARte/ToS fochments:

_ Control Cards

ASCI/TOS

PAUL T.

AUDEN

DATE

REPORT ON P.O. BOX SERVICE

€/ REPORT CATEGORY

INTERIM

TO:

Chief, Investigative Division

DATE REQUESTED ACTION ACCOMPLISHED

ACTION ACCOMPLISHED BY (Name)

MAME!

G/IT

BOX NO.

CITY

STATE

CiS B

158-3

cc :

03

7250

385

$115

532

#253

233

sw/6 March 1953/PPNDING

on 34/63

LAGIS

VEILES

forfites 253233

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE

FORM

11 • 60

1784

(38)

---

## Page 5

14-00000

D

4253233

SECHEI

AXATION

FRO

SUESE

: Daputy Disectes of scurity (Investigations

ani Qgeraldul sagpart)

LETTER ADDRESS

4283 893

esty in the none oi

Tie will corsir alrice furnished yom lefice on 5 March

1963 that the reguaated address has been establinked as fellass:

DDS/IOS

ADDS /IOS

ASCT/IOS

P. Do BOX

Careh

1 Street Btotlon

Be YorkS,

Few Tort

Added as co-gidressess

are

anà Miguel

DIATISALEE®

3. Tole esdress

vill be maintainal for an inacrinite perio

as tim: ani m1l receipts vill be baniled in the falloing sanes:

C .

ia11 receivel in the name

with the

return addrese o?

Man, Florida vill Be

operad ari the contents tuses vuu ba property bidressed,

will be poste? de len Tori.

111 received for the co audrensees will be put in aauthor

envalope and

miled to 1r. Jaak BALMAN, 8. 0. Bos

Perrine Station, Wient 57, Morida. The envelope ult be

esst air endi and boar the retura sadroso or

NOTE

0/018

C/S

B

15D-3

A&TS

FILES

Artile 4 25323.

---

