rod-t0165-(0114

dod

TO + Chief, Security Support Division Date: 18 May 1960
ATTS. : Mr..doseph Vidal, CI/staff.
FROM 1: Interrogetion Research Division

SUBJECT: TROP: £0176

XUERTIFYING DeTA

Subject is a thirty-five-year-old married Cuban netionel who
recently fled to the United Ztates and ts preeently residing in Tew
York City. Subject, prior to his arrival in the U. 2. wes professionally
occupied os a uriter end redio ani television cumentstor. He ise
well-knova personality in Cuba.

Babject vas coutacted by Mr. Joneph Videl, CI/Staff, vio debriefed
Subject ant obtained 7RQ inzerration. Subject is being considered as
& possible PP asset by thie -zency.
‘PROCEDURE

1. A polygraph iuterview-was-errenged.."or Subject at the request
of Mr. Ji Videl on 12 May 1960 at a covert site in Washington, D.
The interviev ani testing took place frau 1430 to 1630 hours. Mr.)

a

[___pasatetea as interpreter during the interview ani testing.

2. Prior to testing, the undersignel reviewed the test: questions
vith J. Videl end it vag determined that the teat was to be basically
Gevioed to assist in aacerteining vhether or not Subject is, or hes
been, sympathetic to Comamisn, vbether Subject kas been « menber of
eny Gomumist organization, ond whether the possibility exists that
Subject is presently clanicstinely connected vith the Castro Goverment.

3. The folloving specific test questions vere posed during the
polygraph exonination:

Were you born on 6 July 192i! Xes.
Is your true name t Yea.

Are you now using, or known under, another meme that you.
bave wot told us about; Ro.

ite sPleger ATER?
SECRET Pe :

aha

RETURNTO CIA ~*~
.».Background Use Only
: F im Do Not Reproduce

i
:



|

|
|
|
|
|
|

Exve you deliberately given us eny falee informetion a
concerning your past? Ro. i
Are you a meuber of the Cuban Mational Party? Yes. _ ee

Were you eppointed Secretary General of the Party efter
the death of Iduardo CHIDS? Yes.

Were you ever sympathetic to the theory or practice of
Soviet Commmisn: Ho.

Are you nov syopathetic with the Communist World Movexent! Ho.
Were you ever @ menber of any Comunist organization? Ho.

Were you ever @ resher of the PSP or any other Camumist
Party! Mo.

Did you ever participate in eny Commmist activity? mo.
Did you first meet Fidel Castro at the University of Havens? Yes.

Did you acccepany Fidel Castro on hts trip to the U. S. in
19591 Yeo.

Have you ever or are you now serving Fidel Castro in any wt
imteLigence capacity? Ho. i‘

Axe you pow en agent of Fidel Cestro? fo.
(Tats question wes posed at Subject's request.)

Vero you ever secretly connected with any intelligence
organization! Ko.

now compected with any Cuban intelligence

Are you
foi 88 AES. aes Th MARR

Vere you ever connected vith DIER eervice in Cuba! Bb.

Enve you ever had any secret contact or coanection with eny
Soviet or other Communist intelligence gervice? Bo.

_ Be

'
i
i
!
i
‘
i
i



eanmetiteecabay sree denenngaguininsinn poise

Did you g to the Cuban Cofsulate in Mew York to obtain
a & peecyort for your sm: Yes.

Did you g to the Conmulate for.eny other recat fo. ‘

Have you hed any eccret coreunication vith anyone in Cte. i
eince yoa have been in the-U. 5.7 Yo. :

Eave you act with enyone connected vith the Castro Goverment
ince you have been in the U. S.7 io.
‘to the Cuban Consulate in Kev Yors.)
RESULTS AND CORCIUSIGH

i

(Subject qualified this question to exclude the visit ! a
H
t

2, Subject's overall responsento the teri questions Listed above
i do not indicate Geliberate evtenpts at deception. It does not spear : \
: thet Subject 1s prescutly comected vith the Costre Goverment {a any
intelligence capecity nor does {t appeer that Subject {s connected vith i
any Coxamict orgsizatton.

2. Subject's attitude toverds the interview and testing in the

Anitial stage wes cooperative and fricndly although be appeared to be o

! somewhat reserved. He frankly edattted that he hed not told all concerning

| his pest oimply because be hed been vetting for a strouger camituent

‘ from our organization. Subject indicated, bovever, that the information ik i

: be hed given ebout hinself up to the date of the interview ws correct :
to the best of his knovledge.

“3, As tha ectnal testing rrogressed, and specific questions vere
Tepoated on tvo or more occasions, Subject become imiigaant ani opealy
Gisturbed by the questioning. He stated thet be found most of the

4. Subject mmffested scncitivity to the questions dealing vith
Commnint sympethies ent mendership in Cocruntst organttations, The d
responses, however, vere incscsistent and did not eppeer to imitcate
deliberste deceptica. Subject's only coment vien questioned about hte :
Sensitivity vas thst he found the questions to be ‘ebsuri” and if anyone

pecearary. It erpearn that Dubject, at least on the surface, hes @
Legitinate excuse for his sensitivity in this phase of testing.

!

A alia

hed read his boakd on this subject, questions of this sort would mot be yf |
i

eee lh edie

Siete eee


!
|
{
!
i
'
i
i

ceReT

5- Subject.aleo mantfested.m response to,‘the question pertaiming
to his visit to the Cuban Consulate in Nev York. He choved no response
to the initial questl: y “Did you go to the Consulate to cbtain a

@id shov some sensitivity. Subject adultted his disturbance becense

in bis mint the question was pointless. He comented thet hed be bod
any other reazon for visiting ths Consulate, it would bave been fooléah
of bin to have mentioned hts visit to us in the first place. Bo attexpt
‘was made to probe this question any further.

6. 4% the conclusion of the interview, Subject bed ealmed cova

‘to unressonable questioning or interrogation techniques. Subjcct was
oe ‘by the usierni¢ned that a finel onalysie cf the tert vould

be made during which time his rcapooses to questions, kis coments end
qualifications rede during the interview would be core2ully evelucted.
Sudject replied by “ndicating that he wes satisfied that he hed ensvered
@l1 questions truthfully and eculd offer no more to pzuve the veracity
of his statements.

08 /TRD/suB:g

oe

4
z
os]
4
4
3

ay \ iP Ae

>

—

a
