# 104-10227-10163

## Page 1

104-10227-10163

DISPATCH

Chief, WHD

С.AN3ИК, N11И8

-SECRET

PROCISSING

19a8r,

LAR DEINS INGERIPO

ARENA

Chief of Stution, JMWAVE

SnAZIP/KUCAGE/AMBUD/Operational

TROnIMITTAL OL PASSAVOR ReROUTA

ACTURI GBIRHEU NETEMSPMAD

•PYI

BICROIN M

PRIORITY

1. Under separate cover we are forwarding PASSAVOY Memoranda

87 through 93.

These

memos ure being referred locolly to the appropriate

suctions for aotion.

?..

89 and 93 bring up to date local deotolone

concerning matters which have

been under dincuacion betacon. PASSAVOY

ANd AMBUD-1.

Please advise whether the AMBUD-l Jetter (paragroph 4

of memo 93)

vas ever published. If not, AMBUD-l in ready to nubmit

1t to other newspapers.

3°,

In regard to memo no. 92 WAVE feels that the FORDC 1a working

toward

the unification of Cubon labor elements but 18 not yet in u

position to set up permanent delegation in Latin America.

the POlIC should be encouroged to worle together with labor entities

In Lotin America which are already eutablished and recognized as truly

democratically oriented and supported by KURARK agsets.

AMPUD delegations and AMBARB organizotion throughout Latin Americo,

FORDe through its close relationship with AMBUD con present its case

to the Latin American publlo.

Latin Americo should be encouraged.

END OF DISPATCH

ATTACHMENT

Memos No, 89 - 93 (USC)

DISTRIPUTION

- Chief, WHD

w/atto. (sc)

c's (57 19-124-28

desa

CACES REFERENCE TO

CLASSMICATION

SECRET

UATE INHED

6 DEC 61

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-2823

MEALQUAHITHS FILE NUMACA

19-124-25/2

DATE UISJAICHED

---

