er) P : LEB 60

ee
| Oo ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
! To a INSTRUCTIONS.

PRIOR TO FILING ‘TO: ACTION BRANCH
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back
flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it
records significant action taken or
coments requiring preservation.

If file no, and title shown are not
Proper, insert proper file no. below
and forward document to RID/AN.

‘To: ALL ADDRESSEES:
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

WH/4 REGISTRY

rs
WH/4 REGISTRY

ayaa

= M a, Le fis Pe
hy per Sye ¢ (om Foer® AeA oe a

c tailom Yay ume ¢ oir
E1 t
° Tut eres ee

c #e ce esp. w Ahibe
Fe
oy
€
Ds
(
16.
Cc
i
12.
1s

/4 REGISTRY

a riceTiTOE ) 9-12 - 72 reaavy, |
Taace | mmr RR | FICE HUMBER (PRIMARY CODED

REQUEST Tox

‘DATE MICROFILMED, fOMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFGA 01647

BB 6100 “tions SECRET

“py


soem att ee inte ance et on naa ocr natcehes aa

“)] Wa
ING

hing: boat from Cuba.on,2

“.|"was brought to the a € Same day and debriefed yr:

reported the existence of a plot'to Kill Fidel CASTRO during the
story follows. - :

~ 2:¢Subject was born 12/ as raised.in Oriente Pi fhe
“parents were owners of two smail fin He has a brother named Victor }
- HERRERA.’ . After his father's. death afew years ago his brother-sold
' fincas and he stayed on with his mother atthe other, This was a finca:
-caballerias known.as Las Gord: He: worked the finca and also coll
3.. About 4 November 1958 Subject came to the U.S. but was refused‘admittance,
allegedly because he refused to ask for asylum because he interpreted asking for
asylum at that time as being in favor of Fidel CASTRO, Ong February -1959 he began
. Fevolutionary activity with a small group affiliated with the Movimiento Democratico .
Cristiano. Sue bench FLEITES was his first chief. Another perso
was one Jose FADUL wiio now lives at 435 Winthrop Street, Westbury,

. 4. During 1960 and 1961 he worked in both Havana and Oriente. He’ eve a
‘came under the command of a Dr, Samia io was chief of the underground in-
Holguin. He organized a group in unas who were prepared.to go into.

. the receipt of arms, These men wére organized into 16. smaller. group

5. In early 1961 Subject met SORI Marin, the military coordinator of the Unidad
Revolucionaria, while in hiding in the same house in Havana, SORI later | it to the

U.S, to coordinate military plans and to arrange for the delivery of arm:
-the arms were to be delivered to his group in the Pueto Padre area, -

[pa a
cs — [9-/k0-/3 cee

as SEO 7
ZEEA hel?



- SECRET
ey

6. In March 1961 SORI, Rafael, and Francisco were arrested as the result of
information furnished to G-2 by one Captain BERMUDEZ who was working under SORI
and supposedly in command of a group of guerrillas in Pinar del Rio. BERMUDEZ has
now infiltrated another guerrilla group in Quivaron, Subject Kried to, organize a ra@ii)to
break SORI out of the military hospital but his plan was lietrayed to G-2 by somebody
on the hospital staff. After the arrest of SORI an(Englis! tt amed(Bob :EDDES ook
over the job of arranging for arms deliveries. The deliveries to the Puétto Padre area
were scheduled several times but delayed each time for various reasons. The final date
was set for the week after the invasion.

7. When the air attack on Havana came on 15 April the militia took control of the
streets by nine o'clock in the morning and further movement was impossible. Three key
men were arrested immediately in the initial round-ups that were made by the militia.
This was a general sweep in which they picked up anybody on the smallest grounds of
suspicion, Subject escaped by hiding for two days in the apartment of the Interyentor
of the Havana motion pictures theaters. The Unidad Revolucionaria had some arms. but
only five magazines of ammunition for each gun. Some members of the group were in
favor of beginning to fight even with these limited arms, but they were dissuaded because
of the impossibility of moving people. or materiel through the streets.

8. A large number of the key people in the Unidad Revolucionaria were arrested
or went into asylum during the next few days. job GEDDES ss arrested about
of}? April on the basis of an accusation from the manager of the Hotel Capri where 24
GEDDES) was staying. Subject was given this information by the(two telephone operators
in the hotel who worked for the UR.

9. Subject learned that five or six of his group leaders in Tunas were arrested in
the initial round-up but they were later released. He believes that the organization in
that area is substantially intact. He believes that the UR was badly damaged in Havana
but that it is still functioning. He says that the MRR and various smaller organizations
are practically destroyed. He believes that a small group called the Martianos have
some assets left, but they cooperate with the UR.

10, Subject was offered the opportunity to get out of Havana by paying two thousand
pesos for which he could get a false passport with an American visa and a ticket on one
of the airlines. He said that he strongly believes that this is a racket organized by the
Cuban G-2, It not only gets them a lot of money but also gives them a chance to smoke
out people that they are looking for. Finally he arranged to leave Cuba via fishing boat.
He had to hide under one of the seats until the boat was safely out of the harbor.

SECRET


ennai i / SECRET
att : -3-

06
ll, Just before his dep; oo chief in the UR, one (Manuel RODRIGUEZ
ho goes under the name cane LOPEZ,) tried to persuade him to stay because
(Rovnicunz ew of a plot to capture or assassinate Fidel CASTRO during the week
of 21 May.obThere were supposed to be six "Comandantes" and eight civilians in the plot.
They were all people placed close to CASTRO, ‘and they had access to the keys to the
arms depots throughout Cuba. It was their intention to open these and give arms to
anybody willing to take them. They hoped by this means to provoke a general uprising.
Subject said that he had had enough of such plots. He felt that if this one didn't come off
right away it wouldn't come off at all, and that he was too hot to stay in Havana any
longer to wait for it.

12, Subject said that Ramon FONT who works with Alberto FERNANDEZ of the
Tejana was a member of the UR now in Miami who could confirm his identity and role
in the underground in Cuba.

13, . In commenting on his experiences in the recent past Subject said that from the
standpoint of the underground the invasion came three or four weeks too soon. Not
enough people had received arms to enable them to engage in combat. He also said
that if they had received some warning of the air attack they would at least have been
able to get ready to use the arms they had. As it was they were completely paralyzed,
He believes that now it is very difficult to hide or transport arms and that in any future
uprising the delivery of arms will have to be more or less simultaneous to all groups and
will have to take place at the time that we want the uprising to begin. The groups can be
organized in advance and the places for the arms deliveries selected, but the actual
delivery would have to be done in the manner described.

ol
14, He knew of a UR, leader named(SUSTO)who was supposed to be a very capable
man. He did not know if JUSTO) was still at liberty or not.

of
END OF DISPATCH

SECRET

yl
