CSCI-3/772 145. —~

Pauline Miller ‘H-5509 Ext. 6471 “7 August 1962

TO: (Oficar denqactaon, room sumber, ond
beldeg)

COMMENTS (Member each comment to show trom whom
We whem row @ fine econ cohme ofr eoch comment

= | |Z
: eZ. peaphad rye la

%.

CI/Liaison 16 AUG cad
we

FeV Bee

Tae OLOLAES* poy secmer —C] CONFIDENTIAL C) BOM —) UNCLASSIFIED ]
Breer et On 8 at cade YO Lat hat ba Rn ae ble rraeee oe aly EI I F
eu am :



ee " . __geTunNTo cia.
Ee Background Use Only
ee : . Do Not Re|

_ eae SECRET 85]

15 AUG 3:

vO 3 Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: ar. 8. J. Papich

: ¥ + Beputy Director (Plans)
: 7 SUBSECE Rolando MABYEARER Rojas 2 9/— ovab64

ooo me:

the teitosiog” information which bo said was received from
+ a Cuban exile in Few Yerk City whose reliability 4s unknown:

: ®. Bolando MASFERRER Rojas, a prominent

ie Cuban exile, has a bslf bour daily radio
program from 10:30 to 11:00 p.m. on Station
WEVD, 117 W. 46th Street in New York City;
telephone: Plaza 7-0880. He is recruiting
trainees for his anti-Castre organization,

ach bs claims is beisg backsd by the

Central Intelligence Agency, He says he has
three training campa for these recruits,

; b. At seetings of MASFERRZR‘a group, attended
4 by as many as 40 people, MiSFEREZIRZ said ho bad
discussed the details of his recruitment and
training program with members of the Central
Intelligence. Agency, and at one meeting he
referred to the presence at that meeting of
delegates of the Contral Intelligence Agency.

c. On Sundays menbers of MASFERRZR's group
go by sutomobiles to a country home in New
Jersey “to practice". In this house, and also
dn the houses of other friends, they have guns.
i Wher they go from one place to another they are
guarded by friends. :

2. It is not clear from the information received whether
MABFERRER is bared te to have made these clains over a radio

_ i. . cee
oo © Or URCEF



SREY

| -2-
{ ji

*
t Program, er only at mootings and in private conversations,
3. The following information concerning Roiando

MABFERAER. waa received from an wntested source with good
contacts asong Cubsns in anti-Cagtro organizations: -

:
t
!
t
H

a. Roger NODARSE, described rs a former
efficer in the Cuban anti-Castro clandestine
organizution know as Unidad Revolucionaria,
told source on 31 July 1962 that be was
approached by MAS¥aaER in New York in July
1962 with a request to join his paramilitary :
training group.

b. BMASFEREER clatmed ¢e-* Se- 52,
saree times a week at a site in New Jerecy,

and that upon coapleticn of this training the
group will infiltrate into Cu. =.

c. MASYERRER said that by paying all costa i
out of his own pocket aed by not relying on & H
past backers, he ig able to maintain security :
of his own operation and is able to avoid dis i

| a covery and negation by the United States: ee
. bedbennet ae

| 4 Jeata ns) refused to join the group. However, :

j it is id be persuaded to join es a :

i penetration. 8: u 80 Gi contact could i

i be arranged betwee! fe ‘eaentative 1

; eithsr in Hiamt or was ‘expected to

iH return to Kew York from h: aaa On or about &

1 August 1363, ‘

: 6. This Agency bas no contact vith MSPERRER and bas 4
1 +  Bever supported his activities or those of any group known
ee to be under his leadership.
-CBCI-3/772, 148

‘TPW/CI/PMiLler:sab (7 August 1962)

. Distribution: _. ..... Based on: UFGA-4687, 9 July 1962
pose Orig & 1 ~ iressee (Source: PASSAVOY t
: : <"RID from AMSUD 1) i
i 1 = CI/Lia ‘
: 1 = CI/REA. WAVE-6486, IN 39152, |
i" 1 - TFW/R* - 3 August i962 (Source: {|
; 2 _ TFW/CI AMBLEAK 1)

File No.: 201-42669

fa SER

a eae an
