“ PFOTLNG ACTION -

wt/f

SECR

MeneID 408 ByOH EMC,

Chief, Weetern Hemisphere Division XX wo moti, Moved

7 mT QUKiRD OeSe
ae AIC mt,

mt

Chief of Station, WH/Miamt eis

goa

soeRT a
6 Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez (201-3

acto BQUIEID Rite”

Reference: UFAS-551, 20 May 1969

Headquarters has copies of all of our information, Attached
herewith ie AMOT report CC-1234 dated 7 June 1965 which contains
extensive biographic information. You-are also referred to

1, Following a review of Subject'n file, we believe
HMNA-24080 dated 1] August 1964 for aimilar information,
}

2. The most recent AHOT information on VEGA is an LITAMIL-3
report dated 23 October 1966 which states VEGA had returned to
Cuba from Mexico and had been appointed Director of International
Relations of the Cuban National Council on Culture,

Glenda J. SIDEIKAS

Attachment: CC~ Cass)
Distribution: ; RETURN TO ClA
3 - Chtet, WED wéeet (need Background Use Only
©o Not Reproduce
tS cory
UM EEE 19) + 2avazen Pvmacd bag eumbee ae
aoa UFAA-1145 25 July 1969
foe a a

SECRET 201-334253 ~

‘
>


; RRORES
as’
FROME CR. a E oo~13396,
AGENT# C-Band Cease. SA47-/ Py 7 tem 65.
DyEas | GeO Artes 2
REFS RE-390, 00-425.

SUBJECT: ianvel Rugenio VBGA Péres (ala “iaroos*), ae
SOURCES: Sedro ROZG Ortege ond Ramin PAC IDS Curros,”

REY 5 Your request dated 23 Oct 64. OS, OF

1, fhe Sallowing sng ined troalPadre ROR
Oetege Pormer[Coveare tai] 8
Rapred ited in mexico. graduate
of the School of Bepionage and Counter-Eepionage in Havena niet}

O. BOurce met Manual Bugenin VEGA Padres, eka “umrocos.*
fm the moath of August or Saptember 1961, In those Gays, VEGA Péren
wae an instructor at the Officers Academy of the Castro gegine and
wae alse teaching an intensive course on espionage and counter-aspionage
to the future agents of the Castro regine in Latin Aner doa.

ee «VEGA Pézes de white, was born circa 1919 4a the City of
Bavana, 42 about #'10° tell, about 190 lbs., has dark brown hair,
ie eingle, and, mocording to source, is 6 heeocexwal, He is a alose
&rlond of Kenuel PEAEIRO Losada, aka “Barba Roja.

@. Aconsding to source, Foreign Service and prensa Latina
personne] gxeduated frem the Behool of Aceficey of Bapienage. VEGA
PGres axrived im mexleo us Cultural AttachS of the Cuban Bebassy
in Mexico. However, at that tie there were too eany Cultural Attachés
Go VEGA béres was appointed ae Cuban Praga Attaché in Kexleo, Ona of
VEGA Péxes' gunctieas wee to sat ae contabt ox liaison between the
foreign representatives of another country whe arrived in Matico and
the Castse regime,

4. MH 1962, VEGR wren engaged in the purchase of photogsaphic
equipment and files ta be Ghetz ibuted together with the Coumunist
propaganda throughout katin America, Between 4961 and 3962, VEGA péres
wee the Second Chief of the Center ef all Subversive, espionage asd
counter-espionage activities in Kaloo, Ee

2. the following isfoxuation was ebteined trea the same couce
on Randa César CUKECA Kontete, whe te sentionsd im paraggeph §.c.
Of your bequeek dated 23 Oct 44. ceuweo weperted the following
ingermsticn Ga QUEVCA Rantetes
‘

BRCARE,..

7) |
gation f lceoe3



ee

BECAE® a

0=1234, CB, 7 Jun 63 (cont.)
a. Ramén Cémar CURNCA Montete was introduced te source

in Ravane by a man named (fnu) MONCEMAYOR who wee an Old mexber

of the Spanish Communist Party. iis HOFTEMAYOP. wae the Directer ,:+'* ie

ef the Sepionage School in Havana red was in charge ef placing
personnel in ether countries. é

b. BMORTEMAYOR told source thet he would receive ordera in
Mexico from CURKCA Kontote, who (as the sole pexsoa suthosised by the
Castro ragima te give the instructions. CUSECA wae doing very active
espionage and counter-eapionags work in Karfce, end vas the man fa
charge og taking care of every important personsge whe passed through
Bax Leo. ae
@. CUBRCA Rontete wae bora circa 1936, 42 about $°1l“tall,
about 190 ibs,, hao gather blond hair, is grow Bavana, and woare
gineses constantly.

@. nm 1962, CURECA Montote was meting ea chief of the
Consulates in Veracruz, Tampico and Islas Mujeres, and, according to
source, those were key Consulates for Communist subversion, CUERMA
Rentote had olese contact with « brether-in-lew of Idsazo CARDENAS,
former Maxicam Preeident, who was @ peagent leader. "Through that
individual, he contmoted various peseant leaGara from differant sones
of the country, and CUBNCA Kontate made a trip threugh the oe
ef the country fez that putposa.

8. the following information wae gurniahed byf( Pear, PeGro ROIS a)
Gn Rogelio BOORIGUES iGpes, who fa mentioned in paragraph §.m. of your
Bequest dated 33 Gat G4e

&, Regelie RODRIQUEZ IHpes wae feting im Mexico ae Beconé
ox third @eexetary ef the Cuban Embaety in mealco, and enjoyed the
full congidence of the pareounel attached toe esld Embassy. ROORIGUER
Lépesz wae o very close trlend of the code clerk of the Enbescy, and
weed ta stay im the seom where tha code clork deciphered the massages
xacoived.

b, REDARGUEE Lopes is wilte, bern eizea 1935, about 3°10°
tall, black kaiz, wease glaeses constantly due to aight defect, und
was married in 1962 (cource does not remember the wife's moma).
According t# sources, RODRIQURE Lépan had bourgeois tastes — BOurO®
Goubts that ROURZIUE Répes As & Conmuaist.

wae
get, BERR Ey : :

RE CARD RE

“APE

ns

dy

ort

RODE,



14-00000

ea

“ 60-1234, CB, 7 dun 69 (cont.)

BECRES

4. the following information was obtained

Cubane Airlines official

in Havana, who ie now working fo] % the Miami International
Aixport. PACIOS furnfiahedt the ®llowing informmtion on Carlos Luis
ALPONSO Ruga, who is mentioned in psxagraph §.0. of your request dated
a3 Oot 645

&. Carlos Zuie ALPONSO Ruga waa born circa 1924 in Havana,
white, about §$°10° tall, about 170 lbs. He fs an educated man and
has an agile mind. Liked te live wall and used te practice sposta
in the Miramax Yacht Club in the City of Havana.

b, Prom 1980 to 1954, ALPONSO Ruga was Cubana Aiglinas
Traffic Supexrvisoxz. From 1954 to 1959 he wae Station Chief. Free
1989 to 1961 he wee Assistant of the Traffic Chief, end in 1961
he wae msde Cubana Aizlines Traffic Chief in Bavanna.

@. ALFONSO Ruga belonged to the so called con¢idential
perecnnel o€ the CCA (Cubana Airlines), who 446 not heleng to the union.
Mm 1959, be joined the Castro regime and wore the militia uaifesm in
Cubana Aigifinesa.

S. Se have the feollewing file traces on Manus Bugenio VEGA Péses,
Bamén Césaz CURMCR Kentete, Rogelie RODRIGURZ Lépes and Caslee Luis
ALFONSO Bugee i

®. Benuel 2. VAUA pocage Informacion reported on this person
fa RE-49? Gated 30 Get 63, Cc-429 Gnted l@ Bev 64, and CC-619 dated
a2 Ape G4.

MONNOL Re VAOR Féxexe Traveled from Ravana to Mexico
Oa 1G Apt G6, DIF Pe-O-G2-167. (Sources: Pasrengex List erowGerianas.“}
%. Randa CURVGR Montates Information repurted on this pexrsen

tay Goge9 dated 28 Bee 3. Qa

Ranta. SAant SUENGA Montatas (tee data.)
Lefe Mewlon for Havena. Diplonatia vies 91237, 6/10/62.
Bed. BISG, Shact SO3L. (Bourcee paysengax list econ (ee for °°"),
Latt Kenses on 1d Jun 62. Diplemtio visa. Ref. LOL.
Bhest JLGl. (Geurces Pusnenyexr List sreafPadeada 7

Rekt Mendes ea 9/24/62 for Hmvanns eg ayes 0
G/7/62, isvuee Ao Bevama, (Souraee Feseenges Ahet even) Ser kanaa."¥\



va 61/207, Siplomatia, (Sources CCR passenger List. )

ee ee
a

gig (Bb

oe -aRCABE
CC~1234, CR, F Aun 48 (conte)
a Traveled from Havana to Hexica om @ Ont 62. Cuban yP-pe

Arcived in nexico on 10/9/62 ftom Havens with diploma tia
visa #1217, dated 6/10/62, fecued in Havens. iplomat. Raf. 3277,
Sheet $088, (Sources Passengers list from ¢: bentia

Fraveled from Havana to nextog. on 17 Dec G3. FP-DIP-D~}
(ado). (Source 1, Passenger List trom (Ci 184 *1/)

[* Conmdére iad {Counaellox of the Cuban Eubaasy in
Shiet o€ the 0-2 eoplonaye corps in Mexico. (Bourea:/fedeo £> S98
Ortega, author of the book "How the Castro Bplee Wark. | 7/24 V/24/64.)

Ranta Clsac GUREAs Former Lieutenant. Witness in
Case 373/60 Gf the Capaguay Court of Matxuction for the crime o£
srbanglemant and death threate, (Sources Offical Gazette 4202, 18 oct
62, page 12790.)

£Gn8% CUENCA Montotan Cubsn, 27 years eld. Areived in
emfteo en 17 Des 63 ba CCA flight 464. PP-D-6)-$53, Diplomatic vine
@930 Asaued by the hexiean Embasey in Havana on 20 Sep 63. (Sources
CCA prasenger fet.)

Traveled trom Haxicgeto Havana on 2? Peb 64. DiporP~63/553.
(Bources vassengex ifet érom(*te de

O. jegalio RODR TaUSt Linwas ration sepaxted em this parson

fe CO-98. 38 May 64, fer a trip he mada.

Roatlio ROVRIAUG Lineas (uew date.)

Traveled from Havana Merdeo on 1G May 64. DiP-P9<1/63/45.
(Gewces IMeeenger Lint exon (‘Ee Landa. *))

Gecend Scaxetary ef the Cuban Embassy a Haxieo.’ traveled
dross Haves te Meadie by alg. (Sources; BOY navepapar, 17 May 64, page 7.

“Gs Guelos yuhe ALFONSO Bugar Mngoemation sepnrted en this person

an OC-G96 Gated 6 Jul 64, and BB-1649 dated 31 uh 64.

Gano Lids BEEQNGO Rugas (How data.)

eaveleé trom taxieo to Mabana cn 26 Jue 64. PP~B-60-4614.
(Souseos Passenger Eivet.}

ERSARL LLG ALEONLs Uweveled from Masfoo to Havana on 3
Avy G4. SF-G14. (Souwees CCA passenger i fet.)

ato nia
: Because i

