# 104-10079-10293

## Page 1

1164-1079-10293

DISPATCH

TO

Chief, KURIOT (Attn:

LASSIFICATIO

SECRET

Photographic Branch)

• PROCESSING ACTION

XX

MARKED FOR INDEXING

INFO.

Chief, Wa Division

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Operational Monthly Report, 1 - 30 November 1963

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

MICROFILM

Action: For your information only

Presented below is a reporting of the operational and support

activities of Gregory D. PARMUTH for the above mentioned period.

1.

General Summary of Activities.

One photographic operational assignment was completed by PARMULS

which was photographing barners used at a demonstration against the

PBRUMEN Embassy.

A total of three work days was spent at the MKCHARITY

installation constructing & counter for the airportand supporting

RESCIGNO in preparing for an audio operation. One agent was trained in

Station support kept PARMULH extremely busy from 15 to 30 November

working with ITFEJD/22,

the airport passport 'camera and Station assign-

ments concerning the assassination of the President.

totalled 3.100 for the month.

Photographic basehouses covering Soviet

and Satellite embassies produced normally with the exception of the

LIERODE basehouse which is now working a six-full-day week regardless of

the embassy visiting hours.

2.

None

3. Training.

See training report forwarded as an attachment/on KASNICKA and

SGI. DELT.

4. Operations.

On the morning of 30 November 1963, PARMUIH was requested by Michael

C. Choaden, Chief of PBRUMEN operations, to photograph a

Station supported

demonstration against the PBRUMEN Embassy.

Also, If possible, to photo-

graph the banners which would be placed directly in front of that

embassy

during

the demonstration.

Upon arrival at the site, the local police were

dispersing the crowds and arresting several of the leaders and one local

photographer.

PArMUl did not attempt to approach the crowd but followed

one of the fleeing banner carriers by car to where the demonstrators

50-6-18 -

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

SOFY

HMMA-22608

DATE

3 Erield

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

11 December 1963 ta1

A Excluded tra cutematica

HQS FILE NUMBER

deciasalilaction

50-6-18

ti

More adrianes

1067573-450/241

JAN 57. May 72

12037

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

HIMMA-22608

grouped. PARMUTH, taking advantage of this re-grouping several blocks

"from the embassy, photographed the banners which were used in this

operation.

5. Station Support.

(a) On 15 November 1963, PARMUTH photographed 593 frames, wing the

Recordak, to fulfill & monthly Staff D requirement for Chief of Station,

Mexico City.

(b) From 19 to 21 November 1963, PARMUTH, MULFORD and RESCIGNO

constructed a new counter for the passport camera and repaired both pass-

port cameras which are used at the Mexico City airport.

As of 3 December

_will load and unload the camera at the airpor

and meet with PARMUTE to exchange the film once a week at

Forwarded as Attachment 2 for Headquarters retention is a memorandum

to the Chief of Station from PARMIT concerning this airport operation.

(c) During the perdod 22 to 26 November 1963, because of circum-

stance surrounding President Kennedy's death which involved Mexico City

Station (and Lee I. Oswald), PARMUTH was requested by the Chief of Station

to render special photographic support to the Station, to meet with

PARMITE's basehouse agents on emergancy standby basis and to keep in close

contact with FEINGLASS, meeting him three tires a day during the above

mentioned period. (See HMMA-21817 5.b.)

On 30 November 1963, Joseph P. RESCIGNO requested PARMUIH for

support in preparing for an audio operation which would take place on

1 December 1963 against an ICHARVEST target au an apartment building here

in the city.

6. Station Support (SW activity)

(a) On 14 November 1963, Michael C. Choaden requested PARMUTE to

train LICHAP/1 In secret writing.

training was carried out on 15 November

at a local hotel in the city. Forwarded as attachment 3 1s the SW report

which is to be sent to SWB.

T. Miscellaneous Statistics:

Number of operational targets surveys completed during the month:

Number of IDY trips completed during the month:

Total number of days:

Photographic equipment Issued for operational use:

Photographic equipment repaired:

Number of people trained in photographic techniques/equipment:

Production Figures on Jobs Processed:

A.

Black and White: 51 jobs

Total prints: 3,100

35mm microfilm:

500 feet

35mm cassettes: 40

120 size roll film:

sheet run lal type

Miscellaneous: 0

(continued)

FORM

10-57 530

(40).

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51.28. 51.78А AND 51-29

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

LI CONTINUED

Excluded tren antenat::

conagrading cat

de-lassitication

PAGE NO

2.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

chuck: Dons.

the IF%

Can you chocke

Duty l confere

fork thats as naduest ente

Fast bleathe t

When that d alread

bent

---

## Page 4

14,00000;

BISPATCH

SECREI

HMMA-22608

B.

c.

Color: 2 jobs

Total prints:

35mm cassettes:

14

120 size roll f1lm:

Sheet 7em (11 types): 0

Miscellaneous: 0

KURIOT Station Support

Secret writing: I agent trained (LICHAP/ 1)

Flaps and Seals:

4 letters

Chemical harassment:

Sillas Casts

Distribution:

2 - KURIOT, watts.

training report

2

Files

1 - WH, wo/atts.

1057 530

(40%

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

AGET SHONALI

51-28. 51-284 AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Excluded from cutematie.

dods rosing and

dicinositication

PAGE NO.

3.

J CONTINUED

---

