# 104-10067-10312

## Page 1

1104-0067-10312

140/

ACTION: LA8 (792)

CA-4. CCS-2, CI-4.

UED-4. OGC-2..

OLC.

78.0256730...

SECRFT

JAN ZI 1U 2°

FKP :

•?.

STAFF

•INFO: FILE. VH. DCI/PA, DOUL, CS/RF. UUL •CAPCS:

CUMMO-7.

CWD-2, EPS/EG-2.

IP/DMS,

LSNAID, UDPUD,

S4/D0/0

SEMd, SECUR-Z, SIA.

SIA/FL

(63/1)

TOR:

PAGE 001

270151Z JAN 78

IN 0258730

43699

SECRE T 2700082. JAN 78 STAFF

CITE

43699.

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR

WNINTEL REVIEN AUSPLASH

REFS:

B .

C.

D.

DIRECTOR 154131

DIRECTOR 154958

43602 0736567

43110

a t heusthes

BLAKEY

REVIEN OF FEI DOCUMENTS RELATING TU LEE HARVEY

OSWALD: TRANSMITTED BY TM-25066 WERE RECEIVED AT STATION

25 JAN AND HAVE BEEN REVIEWED.

CONCUR HUS ASSESSMENT

CONCERNING POTENTIAL DAMAGE WHICH CAN BE DONE TO STATION'S

OPERATIONS ANDL

JACTIVITIES AS RESULT THEIR REVELATIONS

SHOULD DOCUMENTS BE SURFACED MEXICO CITY. BELIEVE WE CAN

ANTICIPATE THAT SENIOR MEXICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND

AWILL BE SHOCKEN CAS THEY WERE IN

CASE UF FREVIOUS REVELATIONS) THAT ANY GOVERNMENT COULD

WILLINGLY REVEAL INFORMATION SO EMBARRASSING AND COUNTER-

RELATIONS

IN ADDITION TU THE DOCUMENTS LISTED IN REF BO

• THERE AKE OTHERS WHICH COME CLOSE TO CONFIRMING COMMUNIST

ALLEGATIONS CONCERNING RELATIONSHIPS BETWEENI

ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS.

HQS WILL

RECALL THAT KDIMPACTIO SPECIFICALLY WARNED

- QU-OPERATION WITH THE MINISTRY UF GOVERNMENT BEING MADE PUBLIC

AND SAID THAT THIS WÜULD "CAUSE GRAVE PROBLEMS FOR ALL

TOTAL THESE DOCUMENTS WILL GO A LONG

TOWARDS CONFIRMING RECENT COMMUNIST ATTEMPT TO EMBARRASS THE

VICE-PRESIDENT BY SURFACING BANNER ARTICLE IN PROMIENT LUCAL

NEWSPAPER ABOUT CIA USE OF MEXICAN OFFICIALS TO SPY ON

SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS WHICH NILL SUPPORT THE

COMMUNIST ALLEGATIONS ARE AS FOLLOWS:

BLIND MEMO BY FBI DATED MARCH 16• 1964 CAPTIONED.

LEE. HARVEY OSWALD."

FIRST PARAGRAPH:

"A CONFIDENTIAL

SOURCE ABHOAD WHO IS THOROUGHLY FAMILIAR WITH THE WORKINGS

OF THE MEXICAN MINISTRY OF

GOBERNACION DINTENIOR) HAS

SECRET

P

7063

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 0258730A

COKKECTED COPY

PAGE 002

TOR:

270151Z

JAlv

78

IN 0258730A

43699

FURNISHED THE FOLLOMING INFORMATION CUNCERNING THE PROCEDURES

UTILIZED BY THE MEXICAN IMMIGRATION

SERVICE IN CONNECTION

KITH THE ENTRY AND DEPARTURE OF NON-MEXICAN CITIZENS INTO

AND OUT UF MEXICO. "

URGENT CLASSIFIED TELEGRAM TO DIR/FBI FRUM

MEXICO CITY, NO. 360. DATED 2-7-64, CONTAINS STATEMENT:

"LIC. LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION. WILL

BE NOTIFIED RE POSSIBLE POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION OF ROJAS, HIS

IDENTITY AND ALLEGATIUNS MADE BY ROJAS RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

AND ECHEVERRIA'S COOPERATIUN REQUESTEU TO CONDUCT SAIC

EXAMINATION."

c.

MEMO TO DIRECTOR, FI FROM LEGAT. MEXICO, DATED

APRIL 28, 1964 REVIERS INVESTIGATIUNS CARRIED OUT

BY FBI

AGENTS IN MEXICO CITY.

UNDER

"SA JOSEPH BO GARCIA" ON PAGE

TWO APPEARS THE FOLLOWING REPORT:

*HANDLED LIAISON WITH THE

MEXICAN MINISTRY OF GOVERNMENT. RECEIVING COPIES OF DOCUMENTS

AND DATA FROM LICENCIADO (ATTORNEY) LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING

MINISTER, AND THE SUB-DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT UF

IMMIGRATION.

LICENCIADO RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA.

ALSO HANDLED LIAISON KITH

THE MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE AND ARRANGED FOR DELIVERY

OF A COPY OF THE SIGNED STATEMENT OF SILVIA TIRADO DE DURAN

BY CAPTAIN FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS.*

BLIND FBI MEMO DATED MAY 5. 1964 AND CAPTIONED

"LEE HARVEY OSMALD*. SAYS ON PAGE 9:

"ON MARCH 24, 1964.

CAPTAIN FERNANDO GUTIERKEZ BARRIOS, SUB-DIRECTOR OF THE

MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE (DFS)• ADVISED THE THIRD

CONFIDENTIAL SOUKCE ABROAD THAT HIS AGENCY HAD. CONDUCTED

NO INVESTIGATION IN CONNECTION WITH THE TRAVEL IN MEXICO

OF LEE HARVEY OSWALD AND DID NOT HAVE IN ITS POSSESSION ANY

PASSENGER LISTS FROM ANY BUS LINES."

OTHER DOCUMENTS OFFICIAL RECOGNIZE THAT CIA IS

ACTIVE IN MEXICO CITY, THAT CIA MAINTAINS A STATION IN

MEXICO CITY. HAS JUKISDICTION OVER AND MONITORS THE

ACTIVITIES OF THE CUBAN AND SUVIET EMBASSIES. AND CUNDUCTS

"SENSITIVE COVERAGE" OF THESE INSTALLATTONS (PHOTOGRAPH)#

PRIOR ALLEGATIONS OF CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES OF THE FBI IN

MEXICO ARE ALSO CONFIRMED BY STATEMENTS SUCH AS "DECLASSIFICATION

(OF THE DOCUMENT) WOULD DAMAGE OUR OPERATIONS IN MEXICO

CITY," REFERRED TO IN AT LEAST FIVE DOCUMENTS.

TwU OF THE

DOCUMENTS GO SU FAR AS TO IDENTIFY THAT THE FBI HAD A

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT (AN ACCOUNTANT) IN THE CUBANA AIRLINES

OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY• ANOTHER MEMO DATED APRIL 1. 1964

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 0258730A

CORRECTED COPY

PAGE

003

TOR: 270151Z JAN 78

IN 0258730A

143699

ACKNUWLEDGES THAT CIA HAD

AN OPS INTEREST AT ONE TIME OR ANOTHER

THREE ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS, THE DRE, JURE• AND 30TH UF

NOVEMBER.

HOS STATED IN REF & THAT IT HAD MADE RECOMMENDATIUNS

TO THE FAI/FOIA FOR FURTHER DELETIONS IN.

AND DENIAL OF.

CERTAIN DOCUMENTS.

WE AKE ESPECIALLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE FOUR

DOCUMENTS LISTED

IN PARAGRAPH ONE ABUVE.

PLS ADVISE URGENTLY

WHAT

ACTION WAS TAKEN

BY THE FBI CONCERNING

THESE SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS.

PRESUME THAT ALL

• DOCUMENTS NON MADE PUBLIC AND THUS TOO LATE

STATION PLANNING PROVIDE COPES OF ALL THE

10 ADIMPACI/D IN ORDER TO ALERT HIM WHAT TYPE OF

PUBLICITY MAY BE FORTHCOMING.

6. FILE:

200-120-150. E2. IMPDET.

END

OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

