# 104-10180-10156

## Page 1

104-10180-10156

Decencer 1959

ESRSONAL DATA:

• NAME:

AGE: (32)vears.

NATE

С Ватта: (Janwary 27, 1928,

• PRESENT ADDRESS:

• NATIONALITY: American.

SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

DO STIVE SERVICE NO.:

- MARITAL STATUS: Married (1-1/2 ears) CHILDREN: (3 boys, 1 81r1.)08

• EDUCATION:

DEGRESS: Bachelor of Selence, Master of Arts.

UNDERGRADUATE WCRK: Scientific-Medicine Program, majoring in

Psychology and inoring in Biology and

Chemistry.

GRADUATE WORK: The Humanities najoring in Linguistics and

Literature.

HCORARY MENTIONS:

00

ofl

all graduate work done under

об

scholarships and fellowshjas nroutded hu

University and thel

рб

CAMPUS ACTIVITIES:

PLACEMENT TESTS:

Graduate Record

exa-ration

Advanced Test Score: 670 (Upper 55 of National

Average).

_U.S. Civil Service Commission - 1992

MilItary Intelligence Research

Specialist:

Grade GS-7

Intelligence Research Specialist: Grade GS-7

Foreign Ariairs Clicer: Grade C3-

• LANGUAGES:

Conversation: English, Spanish, Portuguese (pcor).

Reading: 205..50

spanish, tortuguese.

Writino: Erosis,

working knowiedge of:

Spanishench, Italian."

, Portuguese (poor).

CHARICTER REFERENCES:

р6,00

706,08

106,06

Habana. Cuba.

106,00

23NU

---

## Page 2

14-00000

'?'

December 1959

WORKING EXFERIENCE:

U.S.A. - 1948-1954:

. Sales

706

Professor.

обі

Spanish Depärtnents

(Most of the above positions were held prineipally for

HAVANA, CUBA - 1954-1960, Branch Sales Office for the following:

-- Asst. District Manager.

Idem.

g82gm

-x756

- Idem.

- Iden.

- Idem.

This 1s a combined

handling the

Individual business of each of the above companies in this

territory, and representing their Interests In Cuba.

PRESENT POSITION AND DUTIES:

l'In this capacity I have been directly

responsible for all business operations of these companies

throughout the territory of Cuba.

It has been my duty to

promote the sale in Cuba of all items manufactured by

companies; organizing representation in the main cities; appoint

distributors; assist in

collection of accounts when necessary;

direct the servicing of their products in case of operating

difficulties; supervise the handling of all of their export-

Import shipments; study

conditions and trends,

analyze competitive situations and advise the factories accord-

Ingly; cooperate with and aivise local distributors in their

sales promotion programs and assist with important accounts and

contracts; to ccunsel Managerent in sales policy and procedures

territory; and to protect in every way possible the

Interests in Cuba of the above mentioned American manufacturers.

• RECURIE:

Due to the economic ari political situation prevailing in Cuba

and present restrictions on imported goods, I am considering the

advisability of making a change whereby I can improve my present

standing and future potentialitles in accordance with my educa-

tional qualifications and proven experiences.

I am only inter.

or abroad,

---

