# 104-10185-10141

## Page 1

104-10185-10141

sicido, ratitat de ciana i

i sie cint

"'CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

T7-80

SECRET

NO PLEIEN DISSEY

COUNTTY Cuba

CSCL.316/00770-64

SUMECT Fernando Pascual PEREZ

DATE DISTR

20 July 1964

NO. PAGES

1

NEFERENCES

HETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

ashington, D.Ce

DATE ACQ. July 1964

FIBD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORLATION

ROURCE GRADANOS ASS DEFINITZ APPEAISAL OR CONTENT ES TINTATTYL

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with. the Cuban

Intelligence Service Unt11 April 1964.

Headguarters Conments:

1. The following report is one of a serles contataine

personality information provided by the source and

Includes supplemental information from the recorde

of thia Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no actiod

op any of the

individuals mentioned in the

personality reporte uithout first checking uitb

thia Agency.

Fernando Pascual PEREZ,

pseudony "Alejandro," de su officer

in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI • General

Directorate of Intelligence) in Cuba.

His address 1a

Headquartere Conment.

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable

information on PEREZ.

3/p0

STATE

1 ARAY

REP CINCHANT

SECRET

NO FORBIGN DISSEM

MAYY

INSA

SIARSO & IBNS

TXXX: o

IFBI 3

NEO

MATION

PORTAN

FORMANON

NH/SA, TOZ I

WE/S,R

WH/SA/MOB:

NE/ MADR

2

NH/SA/C1

TE

RID/AN

KH/NAVE

TOTALO SH/SA 7 (1), TE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

1S- 1397

NO PROJSCT

(AHNDC-1)

ICSCI-316/00270

CI/

201-None

pone no. 1

ORCOLITY FRITIODE POETIONE

(801

---

