# 104-10256-10076

## Page 1

104-10256-10076

ROUTING SLIP

DATE

5155,470

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

CASE NO.:

REMARKS

The attacied was unsolicié

48+8

i pend this this

an wate if inn. Ba

(40)

VRi

---

## Page 2

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY:

5 November 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director/IOS

SUBJECT

: Military Armament Corporation,

Powder Springs, Georgia; Subsidiary of

Environmental Industries, Inc.,

Washington, D. C. - alleged CIA

Involvement

1.

On 3 November 1970, T. Preston HENDRICK, Washington,

D. C. District Manager, Dun and Bradstreet, Inc., (DOD Contract

an extremely valuable WEO information source, contacted

by telephone and said he had a

matter which he thought, in the interest of national security, we possibly

might be interested in looking into. He briefly explained the problem

which had come to his attention from|Dun & Bradstreet's Atlanta, Georgia

Office, and it was agreed that Special Agentl

vould meet with him

in his office the following day.

03

022 2 On 4 November 1970, Mr. HENDRICK gave Special Agent

the attached xerox copies of an informal memo dated 20 October

1970 from D&B's Atlanta, Georgia Office, Subject: Environmental

Industries, Inc. (Exhibit 1); a D&B Business Information Report dated

9 September 1970 on Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs,

Georgia, representing a subsidiary of Environmental Industries, Washing-

ton, D. C. (Exhibit 2); and a ten page article from the August 1970 issue

of "Atlanta"' Magazine (Exhibit 3). HENDRICK commented that this article

(Exhibit 3) has no by-line heading, and no mention of the author's name

and is written in such a manner as to imply an association between CIA

and the principal of Military Armament Corporation Mr. Mitchell L.

WERBELL IL.

---

## Page 3

3. Mr. HENDRICK noted that the attached memorandum

from the D&B Atlanta Office (Exhibit 1) is self-explanatory, but

added that the Atlanta Office is receiving a lot of inquiries on both

of the companies. The D&B Report (Exhibit 2) is the first and only

such report yet produced by Dun & Bradstreet's Atlanta Office. The

Dun & Bradstreet Washington, D. C. Office has had no other require-

ments for information on the local company, Environmental Industries,

Inc. However, the D&B Washington Office, in response to the D&B

Atlanta Office request for information, has so far ascertained only

that Environmental Industries located at 955 L'Enfant Plaza S. W.,

-Washington, D. C. ostensibly is a one room type operation with a

telephone (554-9572) and one female employee who would not identify

herself; this person told D&B's investigator that he should not have.come

there-that everything about both firms had to come from Powder Springs,

Georgia.

4. Mr. HENDRICK said his first impression after the article

(Exhibit 3) was that the comments involving CIA "were ridiculous, pre-

posterous, and were written by a nut who is as nutty as Mitchell L.

WERBELL III seems to be"

', however, as a citizen he (HENDRICK)

did not want to take any chances and decided to call Special Agent

HENDRICK also thought it conceivable that fraud might

possibly be involved, but indicated that he has not mentioned this matter

to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

5. Mr. HENDRICK said that at some point he will have to

respond to Atlanta's request for information on Environmental Industries,

Inc. either by saying the Washington Office is not going to write a report

or stating an opinion that the information in the "Atlanta" Magazine article

seems completely ridiculous. Mr. HENDRICK indicated to Special Agent

that if at all possible he would appreciate some guidelines - if

nothing more than sending the D&B Atlanta Office a xerox copy of the

National Security Agency Act and CIA Mission as described in the United

States Government Manual or some other public document. HENDRICK

made it clear he was passing all above information to us on a completely

informal unofficial basis and indicated he realized it is possible confirma-

tion or denial of implied CIA interest may not be possible.

EDMUND X. KLIPA

Special Agent in Charge

- 2 -

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Dur & Bradstreet, InC. INTER-ORTICE MEMO

FOR

AIR

AlL • CHECK MERE.

TO

REPORTING MANAGER

• FROM

once big NareS Call

SIGNATUNI

SUBJECT

ENUIRONMENTAL INDUITRIEI INC

DATA DeT 20,1920

DUNDER SPRINGS, (TA

WE ARE NOT ABLE TO CONFiRM THIS BRANEN

DUE TU THE ABSENCE OF INFORMATION, WHICH WAS DECLINED BY

THE PRINCIPALSA IN ATLANTANE REPRE CNNRONMSTES INE

DUSTRIES TO BE HERQUARTERED IN WANNETONDE, MI

1TS SUASIDER LETARY ARMAMENTS CORP, HEADQUANTENO

AT PONDER: SPRINGs, GAI

QUA ONLy SOURCE Lf INFERMATION iN BEEN A

LOCAL PUBLICATION, WILICH STATES TIAT ENUIRONMENTAL INDUSTRI

INS MAINTAiNS HANGARTER AI WANTINGTOND. LADIE

A SUBSIDIANY OF ANiTHER NNDIVUEGEO CUNCERN AT THAT LOCA-

-TONE A COPy DE THE REPORT IN THIS PUBLICATION 1 BEING ENGLUSE

19L-42 (681007)

• CONTINUED ON RIVERBE

---

## Page 5

SIC

19 11

Tell needs dia.

QUE BRIGIDOL BUSINESS INFORMANOWROPOE ME.

@DUN. & BRADSTREET, INC.

STARTED

RATING

04-969-3849

MILITARY ARMAMENT CORP

VOR 69 SEFT 9 1970 (FU 10-81

MFR GUNS

1970

(Subsidiary of Environmental

Industries, Inc., Washington; D.C.J

RT #3

SUMMARY

P.O. BOX 168

POWDER SPRINGS

GA

30073

TEL 404 943-3574

PAYMENTS

EMPLOYS

RECORD

UNDETERMINED

12

INCOMPLETE

MITCHELL L. WERBELL, 111, PRINCIPAL

PAYMENTS

FINANCE

HISTORY

OPERATION

Trade references declIned.

On Sept 9 1970, Mitchel! L. Werbell, 111, principal, declined any

and all Information.

An analysis by reporter is Impossible due to the

An eral gaten of gutsir aross bal due to are lack of informa

tion.

A check with public records has been initlated, and will be published

upon compietion.

Incorporated Cobs County, Georgle on luly 1 1970

authorized capital

1,000,000 shares of common stock ar no par valve;

Paid ie capital £1,000.

WERBELL, 1l1, born about 1918, married,

Reporiadly was previousiy associated

with Sionics,

inco, Atlanta, Ca.

Also appeared as owner of Mitchell L.

Herbell Advertising, Atlanta.

Operates as a subsidlary of Environmental Industries, Ins.

Savironmental industrles, Inco, Washington, D.C., deialls not avallable

at this Tima.

Subject manufastures guns used In mariare. Sales are made to the u. s.

Government and toreign govsinments.

Reporter estimates 20 accounts.

ing inciuding officers.

LOCATION: Operations conducted from do acre estates

9-25d By Michell L. ivorbell, 111.

THIS REPORT MAY NOT "I REPRODUCED IN WHOLE ON IN PART IN ANY PORN

OR MANNER WHATEVER.

is furnished to DUN & BRADSTREET, INC. IN STRICT CONFIDENCE at your peruelt under your subseriotion agreement los your erclusive use as a basis lar

cradli, insuranes, martetin

erin

wegprising.

MA E

---

## Page 6

ROBERS READING THE SCRIPT

9r0R 2-26-10

The Story of CBS and the Plot to Invade Haiti

1 By GU'S COXSTANTINE

5== Stall Wraer

soon pilats in the pth. "any

House: Commerce Committee

fe to investigate broadcast Il

said in an interview.

carsing under the Communica®

The Colombia Broadcasting

Asked whether the network

ystein hus been accused in ar

had

The report, which was pre-

Snowldeze

that

law.

stock. id! House subcommit

waS

pared ( for the subcommittee

Sa'sct said he would wel

bring violated, Salant

staif report of contributing

said:

last Jurie 20, caused some

¡use is 5a0,000 lo i 1966 plot

"Ti sui've involved in filma

agonizing in the Commerce

conse Pitie her he sata, this

Horever, he said, "I'd

Committee: over whether to

Lare greater bope for such

i invade Haiti.

ing,

et; and troiting exercis:

Lesording to the report, CBS

Us.

do tously You have knowl

call a public hearing.

marines getting at the truth i:

is could

be held in a forum

Cone or a riciation of law But

Information in the report led

in

exclusire

sights to film dal: bigments

Our g heral

position is that

to subpoening of CBS films,

tact offers tine opportunity for

of arms and tratony sites of

Where the violation is general-

financial records and logs in

cross examination.

the

plotters separatory

to M

ly Fiden, or there is reason to

connection with the invasion

Toe invasion finally was bro

bellero that law enforcement

attempt.

Executive

sessions

Len un by customs agents of

Plate de inacion decli

It siso chares that the nut.

aguncies know about it then

were held at which CBS per-

Jab. 2,

writes toe: trini; to hide

We pocced without notifying

sonnel testified

Plum

Bear, are dat Coco

as interment me mat itress

then,

In their report, stalf mem-

ended its involvement the pro-

Salant said CBS News': ex-

bers of the Special Investiga-

rious November.

raootied the mail t to federal

asthoritoy.

Fishend Salaat, president of

penditure

tions

subcommittee accused

Seven men were indicted by

for the

"Ilaitiam

project" was betieon $tsd,000

CBS

of irresponsibility and

a Grand jury as ringleaders of

and $170,000.

"About $120,000

said

the network may have

the plot.

Sis of them were

oi

thits

went for

external

violated six federal statutes,

tried and conticted in Noven-

westerday that

"COS

tess flated goorning de-

civities and training csercises

as part of an investigative re

ye on ue activities ni Cu.

rin-Hatian exile groups."

But so denied ihat. the net

work holned finance the inva-

Costs--travel, board,

Judging

- 1p

incliding the Neutrality Act,

ser 1957,

while the charges

the Munitions Control Law, the

against

the

seventh were

and payments to non-staif her-

RICHARD S. SALANT

sonnel," he said.

Communicalions Act of 1934

dropped by the Justice Depart-

and several firearms laws.

ment.

is ans appeal

Although CBS has

been

linked to the invasion attempt

in earlier news accounts; de-.

tails of the network's involve-.

ment have never been 'dis

closed. The invasion itself nev-

er came off.

"This committee has an ex-

cellent picture of what took

place,"

a

member

of

the

There.

The l probers recommended

pending in New Orleans S

that the network be called to

According to the Commerce

public account in oven hear

subcommittee staff report, the

ings

before the Commerce

Plot was hatched early in 1968

Committee, which has authori-

See CBS,

Päge: As

---

## Page 7

No seize baili Trout achiet

Doninican Repuliller

it as a jrnging off

int to sunke at Cubi,

Tie

report

contends

CBS

ined about it in March 1986,

Tued in April to film inva-

preparations,.

including

shipmehts and cach-

mad did so iu June and ad

tiness.

Il Further con-

i: til the network mul up:

torard the rental ofa

to serve as the lavasin

called suit dof three cyslan

railer.

intend transel est

11181r.1081d

livili

His maderin

out called mind a l r the lea

CAs Change developed boy dates

whething smelly."T fell wex

were being had Salant said.

Leading Figures

The leading "aclors" in the ?

brasion" drama, according

lidthe staff report, were.ced

Rolando Masferter Rojas, a

year-old Cuban right-winger

lown as "The Tiger." He

etrolled a privalc army in

ba when Fulgencio Batista

ras dictator.

The Rev.

Jean: Baptiste

¡borges, a Catholic priest and

former cducation minister

ukler Hailian President Fran-

cois Duvalier.: =

• John Aton Constanzo-Pelau,

& Cuban conspirator. who al

legedly assisted CBS in its

filming. He was recently shot

• Julio Cesar Hormilla, a Cu-

bai who lost an eye while par-

ticipating in the filming of in-

vision training:

< Mitchell Wer Bell I, a mu-

mitions dealer linked to clan

Listine operations land up-

licaval in Latin America. He

tas hired by Cbs as a con-i

sidtant for the invasion story.

Maller, CRS produc-

incision slory.

Allisis

St.

Cieorge,

de-lance writer who lipped:

CBS on the invasion plans

and ass late by diet ork

associate producer

and

writer of the story. I?

James Wilson, a CBS cam

¿raman sho informed federal

thorilies of thc

invasion

Unided Loser hnernatichol

Rolando Masterrer (loft) and Father Jean

Captiste Cicorgo.

в ВСта Лій

One son tes threst duma

reo alance writer use intro

mitortion attemnts

duced in tie renort as thc con

• Stanloy, Schacter, assistant

customs agent in charge of en

tact ho approached eve

Mullen An

My March 1966. St

forcement at Miami, who kept

Georges is said to have told

track of the untolding invasion

McMullen of the preparation

scheme.

for a Hailian invasiong and

asked if CBS was still interest

Plans Outlined

ed in illegal munitions move

Thesubcommittee report

ments atte

says CBS' association with the"

Were Bell dentified in the

conspirators began in March

staff report as a man with a

1966.

background in arms sales to g

The conspiracy took shape

Latin

governments, is intro

initially as just one more Latin

duced by

St. George to Mc-

intrigue in Fiorida to toppler

Mullen in April at Wer Bell's :

the regime of Cuba's Fidel

i home in Powder Springs, Ga.

Castro.

McMullen, said the report,

In this instance,

the plan;

was told of Wer Bell's efforts

called for Masferrer to be in-:

to find a sultable base in the

stalled as chief of Cuba while

Domincian Republic for Mas-

Father Georges took over Hai-

ferrer to launch his invasion.

ti, provided a two-stage inva-

sion was successful...on

CBS

enters the picture

Price Tag Cited

through VicMulien, a producer

McMullen-was also-told, ac-

eager to alm arms-smuggling 1%

activities. The special subcom-

cording to the report, that for.

a price, exclusive CBS ilming

mittee's

chief: investigator,

of clandestine

arms ship

James P. Kelly, himself a for-

ments, training exercises and

mer CBS employe, is said lo

the actual invasion could be

have worked

on

a project

arranged.

with McMullen in 1965 to film

McMullen

agreed to pay

illegal export of surplus fight-

close. to. $80,000

er aircrait: That project was

for: these,

rights, the report says, and

dropped..Tn

CBS hired St. George as asso

ciate producer and writer of

the invasion story:

As a down

George delivered 1o Wer Bell a

$1,500 given to him by craVA

Mullen, the report says. al

In June, McMullch brought a

film" crew to

a Miami house,

belonging to Masferrer's

brother. An arms

cache was l

photographed there and in othe

or resides in the same vi

Wer Bell was on location. t

were ammigration agents, iris

callad to check on Masterer's

Wher cabouts:

Masterer was

0л 20650

thda wils

barrel

Millen

Cost ac

cordin

TA CBS

James

Wilson, contacted CLA agents

in Houston while on a space

shot assignmert,

•the - roport

Says.

The CIA, informcd toe 131

who

called on. Wilson andre.

screachinto Us, customse

romethat point on, accord

Schuctor,

assistan customs

agentsin

charlen of

ment inariat

Menta

mektoshim

ers

sought funds.

CIDE CB.

and St. Georges wash siven

moncy by McMullen to nay

them, the report Says, It mey

tions, sums.:

totaling

alniost

8,000 2 tommasterer,

Were Belle

a trịp to thể Don

minicant

S0o- Ineras

per Tor in

savoodook

Sensorder.

-to 1n

spire thet troops and ss0o-to

Julio

Aton? Constanzo-Pelau,

another conspiratos who dou-

bled as film assistant for CBS.

A Comic Turn

Now the narrative shifts to

New Jersey and takes a come

McMullen is told he can pho

tograph a Shipment ot. weap

ons;

tron the Shiloh - Hunting

Lodge on Rte46 to Florida, Hey

pays Masterrel 1380 for the

story. büt the story fails to

matcrialize. In the mix-up, the

car carrying the weapons Ins

es contact with the CBS film

crew, according to the report.

Later, a van carrying wear.

ons from New York to Florida

breaks down in Macon, Go.,

and the driver has only $15 in

cash. CBS provides financial

help and. a 1965 Mercury stil-

tion wagon is serit to Macon In

complete the rip.

& the report

says on

McMullent then pays

Wer

Bell $3,000; toward rentalofa!

jacht, thes

Poor: Tichard,

which

would be tho invasion

minus

---

## Page 8

14-00000

CoS suid yesterday it paid

Vier Beil

$1,500 fut

ine boat.

Saladt said.

*I understand it

was to be the invasion boat.

We were going to be on it. The

money was for board and lodg-

ing. Another $1,500 was paid

for a second yacht, which was

used by st. George and luter

caught fire."

Suit Against CBS

During

the filmicg

ot

training

scene

at

Kendal

Park. Pia., traince Juio Cesar

livorite was injured when a

detective weupon exploded. He

juner lost an eye.

Mormilla sued for $1 million,

Du: Car Haition diplomat re-

Says,

that he was purpostly

potted the matier to Duvalier,

foil misinformation by Duval-

to the FBi and to U.S. Cus-

ier to joll the invasion.

tonis.

Schacter,

meanwelle,

in-

forms Masferrer, Father

Scinat said CBS was not in-

volved

itio

Georges and McMullen that

nor knew anything

Ecli

this incident until Wer

the invasion rould not be al

lowed.

approached

MicMullen

and said he had the tape.

At ths point reBs endsut

"McMullen

said,

•Hell, I*

affilation, suther

& staff arepar

won't touch i," according to

says. y

Salant.

But Masferrer and his peo-

ple shift to Coco Plura Beach

A fallog out then apparently

occurred

and begin a new countriown.

between Alasferrer

On Jan. 2, U.S. Customs offi-

and St. Georgc and the latier

cials take: the

"army" into

goes to Stanley Schactei, the

same Customs official briefed

metes including the transpor

carlier by Wilson, to tell his

version of the invasion story.

vessel, theatrenal&e

St. George, says the report,

A grand jury then indicted

now drops out of the picture:

the seven men, including Mas

He is hospitalized with bads

Terrer, Fallier Georges, Con-

burns sulfcred in a yacht acci-m

Stanzo Pelau and: Wer Bell on

dent and McMullen hires Wer

charges they violated the Neu.

Ecll as a story consullant at.

trality, Act and the Munitions

alleging that McMullen trans-

$500 a weck.

Control Laws

ported weapons to Kendall and

Another

shift

nOW

takes

Before the tria

the Justice

place. The Dominican Resub-

Department dropped Wer Bell

distributed them to the mer.

lic is "uncooperative" over the

as a defendant,

and the con-

After

his injury,

Hermilla

use of its territory as a base

gressional

investigators re

charged, medical aid was de-

for the Hailian invasion so the

ported that all attempts to get

•an

layed

until CBS

cameramen

piona's decide to strike cirect-

explanation from Justice

could photograph the incident

ly from the United States.

Tailed.

The other defendante

Hormilla later

sctiled

his

were

lound guilty and were

suit with CBS for $15,000, the

Appears a Scoop

sentenced to prison terms

ranging from 60 days to four

report says.

A. CBS crew is flown

to

years. The verdict is on appeal

According to the report, Wer

Port-au-trince,

Haiti, and the

in New Orisans.ms

Bell, Masferrer and St. George

network hines its own flagshin

In 1967 CBS refused to Icl

for $2,500 to trail the rebel:

showed un at the Miami office

officials of the Justice Depart-

flotilla. NBC and ABC were

ment,

Customs and the U.s

of

Haitian

Consul Eugene

sirugging to catch up with thes

Attorter see the fims it tock

- Maximilian and oficred to end

story. but the "scoop," it ap- in connection with the invasion

preparations for the invasior

peared, belonged to CBS.

plans, the report says.

if Duvalier put up $200,000.

Nov. 20 is the day before the

According to the report, Bil

When no answer sppeared to

invasion. But that night, CBS

be forthcoming,

the

staff re-

Leonard, CBS vice president,

correspondent® Bert Quint, in

rebuked Wilson for nctifying

port, says the plotters offered

"Haiti, reports a battle raging

the goverment

through am intermediary to

"in the streets "between rebels ?

Meanwhile, the mouse

sell a tape of their conversa-

and forces loyal to Duvalier.

Commerce

Committce

: COM-

tion with Maximilian back to

There is reason to believe,

tinues to study the need for

the consul for $10,000.

the congressional staff report

public hearings:

---

## Page 9

14-00000

S00030

APRIL

1470

rise's)

21686

THE

MAFIA

INCIA

For seven years, our

two invisible governments

have been fighting

for control of the small,

impoverished Caribbean

nation of Haiti. The outcome

is still in doubt

BY ANDREW ST. GEORGE

ILLUSTRATED BY DAVID STONE MARTIN

---

## Page 10

14-0000

The ClA equipped

guerrillas,

amphibious-landing

parties, spies

and terrorists-and

even bombed the

president's palace

mericans who never thought of politics as any- battleground is the nearby Caribbean nation of Haiti

thing but visible visible and audible, for that

and the immediate issue is simple: who will con-

matter- spent an unhappy time in the '60's ad- trol her Maryland-sized national territory and 4.5

justing to the discovery that the United States had an

million desperate people? But the real struggle is for

invisible government, too: in point of fact, two of

far bigger stakes: primacy over the entire Caribbean

them. There is, for one, the CIA, all over Washington;

and its vast potential wealth. And-in the ultimate

then, second, there is the national syndicate of

Of-

upsct to American tradition-the bad guys seem to

ganize crime, all over everything else. But it has re-

he winning.

mained for the generation of the '70's to discover

It is not impossible that, as in Vict Nam, our un-

declared war in Haiti might flicker on and off until

powers collided somewhere, the confrontation esca-

the '80's arrive, but one of its most un-American

lated into an invisible war.

aspects is bound to disappear by then: it will no longer

It may well be the first full-scale secret war Ameri-

be a secret. It will be the much-debated public prop.

eans have ever fought: its origins disguised, its ballles

erty of historians, policy scholars, social scientists

unreported, its casualties anonymous, even its most

the stufi of Sunday book supplements and John Wayne

obvious scars so blithely ignored that when a French

movie options.

reporter recently wrecked her car in one of its gaping

There is bound to appear a best seller by a White

bomb craters, she complained of "potholes." The House insider an Arthur Schlesinger Ill, so to speak

---

## Page 11

Stie

-who will publich the anthoritative, Ersthand account

of President John F. Kennery's 1963 decision lin ill-

lempe do free laiti from the cancerous dictatorship of

Dr. Francois Duvalier. and explain why the President

and the National Security Council, ignoring the then-

recent Bay of Pigs disaster, decided to entrust the

liberation of Haili do our "intelligence community."

How the intelligence community-a joint operations

group of the CIA, the Nary and the Pentagon's huge

Defense Intelligence Agency--fell down on the job

will probably he reviewed by an award-winning Wash-

ington newsman in a hard-hitting book that will call

for a Congressional investigation-and likely get one

started.

But a definitive book on the whole Haiti mess would

hest come from the cautious, emotionless typewriter of

a seasoned crime writer. An old hand at gangland

sars, maineless corpses, syndicate power struggles and

mumberer bank transactions would go to Haili and

Gine the scene familiar. He would poke his loc at li:

book crater in the presidential drivesay and never

mistake it for a pothole. He would talk to President

Duvalier himself

and understand why Washington

thought. back in 1908, that Papa Doc was a freak

and a pushover--this frumpy, feeble-sounding. frog-

Facer linle Mimlam luchrer without a friend in

the work.

He would spot more than one CIA "spook" in the

capital city of Port-au-Prince. But he would see that

the influential Americans who come and go in the

palace, who dance with slim, bronze bar girls in the

new government guesthouses, who are passed through

the menacing militia roadblocks with a nod. belong t

a different secret society: the "syndicale." And our

connoisseur of crime would reflect with a moment's

anse on the sheer genius of Duvalier's successful sur-

---

## Page 12

When dictator Duvalier

couldn't get arms and

ammo, the mob helped.

Now the Mafia men are

collecting their debt

vival strategy: the discovery that if you are under at-

tack from Washington's spooks, you can find an ally

in America's other invisible government-organized

crime make a common front, and win.

All this would have struck the generation of the

OU's as startling news. It was news, as late as 1908,

even to people touched by the war, like Jay W. Hum-

phrey, a plumbing contractor in Melbourne, Florida.

One spring morning two men in neat dark suits drove

up. 10 the Humphrey house in Melbourne and handed

Jay is strange draft notice. They were friendly men

with an easy way of getting down to first names ("I'm

Bernie," "I'm Raymond, just call me Ray"), and they

had all the usual accoutrements: a basic Chevy with a

clipboard on the dash; some. papers to sign; some

money in an envelope; an air ticket to Miami.

spectacularly muscled Air Force veteran and champion

weight lifter who had flown combat in Korea, found

himself back at the controls of a heavily laden attack

bomber. Coming in on deck over the glittering Carib-

bean, roaring rooftop level past the piers of Port-au-

Prince, Humphrey banked sharply into a low-altitude

bombing run on the triple-domed presidential palace

of Doctor Duvalier.

Dead ahead, the bomber crew saw the presidential

guard's gunnery crew scramble wildly for the four.

harreled Oerlikon ack-ack cannon mounted on the

palace roof, but Humphrey felt only elation. He had

a passion for flying and for adventure. In a way, he

was a volunteer. Years ago, when Double Chck Com-

pany and Gibraltar Steamship and the Mineral Carry:

ing Corporation and two or three other one-room out

fits all of them thinly disguised fronts for the Cen-

tral Intelligence Agency-were combing Florida for

combat pilots, Jay Humphrey had signed up to fly in

an operation then called "Operation Pluto," but now

better known as the Bay of Pigs.

"If that do had lasted another week, I'd made first-

line crew; I was on the list," Jay later told a friend

And although the Cuban invasion beachhead vanished

in 48 hours, the list with Jay Humphrey's name on it

stayed on file in Washington. This time he was called

to flight duty against another tropical tyrant.

But how did Jay, a good ol' boy from grits-and-gravy

country, where he left a petite, pregnant, blonde wife

named Kathy and a baby son-how did he happen 1o

fnd himself up here in the sultry, sinister tropical sky,

aiming explosive eggs at the president of a nation legally

---

## Page 13

al peace with his on? And how die Haiti get to be the a cop in a formidable special-war machine. le vis

ClA': priority target?

part of a small army including sis American combal

For 18 months, True Magazine and this reporter

pilots (Lary DeGrall, Art Sims, Fred Harke Car-

have been asking precisely this question in one of the

ence

"Bud"

Miller, Howard

Daris and lun

longest and most far-flung investigations ever under-

pirey himself, do well as a marine amd transpor

taken by a publication, carrying the query from Paris

detachment led by Willian G. Smith and Wes Mad-

1o San Juan to Miami, Washington and New York:

den; a demolition and bombardier group under Larm

Just what is happening in Haiti?

We found more distrust, deception and double-talk

than on any foreign affairs investigation we have at-

tempice. But gradually we also found some friends.

and among the friends. in occasional moments of con-

fidence. or frustration, we began to encounter answers

with the feel of truth. Our first clues came from Gn.

Leon Cantave Wait's former chief of stall; his execu.

live: oflicer. Col. Bene Leong and from three Ameri

cans with tropical adventure in the blood-lanyer-

terested in Haiti, who nowadays keeps out of trouble

hy working for the Columbus, Georgia, Leilger-En-

quirer.

Take Jay Humphrey. for instance, plummeting in

midair toward his moment of truth with 1,000 pounds

«I high-velocity plastic-compound explosive, packed in

five specially rigged aerial bombs, tn blow out the life

of an incumbent president whom Jay had never seen

in person. We know now that Jay was little more than

U.S. unconventional-warfare instructors who were

mustly veterans of the Special Forces (like S/Sgl

Edmund Kolby) or of the Marines (like M/Sg. Bill

Miller 2.

The autonomous tactical strike force even ld sons:

strategie support facilities: broadcast and psychologi.

cal warfare units for stirring up the population of

Haiti: its own materiel procurement; and its osa

pady master--the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, dis.

bursing monty for the project jointly with the Defense

Intelligence Agency from vouchered but condential

Class "A" funds audited only within the agency.

The aerial assault was preceded by an intense radin

barrage aimed at undermining 'resident Duvalier's

domestic support. Our investigation traced the tapes

of these broadcasts to a New York radin studio then

identified as WRUL, now called WNYW (Hadio Nev

York Workdwide), which often handles ClA-sponsored

propaganda programs. They (Cominued on page 791

---

## Page 14

14-00000

16-mrined from page 37]

were beamed in Hair drough the fa-

ailities el Radio Americas. of 101 Ma-

scira Arenue, Coral Gables. It is a shis-

pered fore in Mitian and Cuban exile

cides that Radio

Americas is a CIA

front. also used as a transmission facility

for daily propaganda broadcases to Cuba.

In Coral Cables. Radio Minericas, Inc.

HB10:01 1101

emincmly impercable fi-

daddo: Do presiden dof record is lorrell

8. 19e01s9, ll merled of there bonered of

sirectors ol Miami's giant Fire National

and the

serretary-ember is in

presagons Marmi attorney. Walter Roge

t/..

Americaniesel

Cuban exiles-actually mamage ibe hunte

riding inctivities of

Radice

Americas im

donate Carbles and on Swan Island in the

Caribbean, where

1na111d112s

well wirhin shoreware and mediumsve

Frege of both Caba and Maili.

The CIA

AgCU

in targe

programming

Anone to be an experiencer psychologi.

cal warlare specialise, identified as Kol

sid Walkinson

Joy Humplucy missed killing President

Duvalier because thrce of his five bombs

failed to coplode-and the do that disl

Broceed slighely olf sarger. One left the

true hazard under Papa Doc's

Berleong: Humphrey now suspeces sales-

Bage: or possible betrayal: the commando

Ance landed by three U.S. pilots at near-

Cap-Faitien simultancously

Humphreg's arrack on the palice found

insall assador find trom one of Duvalier's

ense guarel vessels suspicionsly sending

olishore just where the invaders struck.

All of these incredible special-warfare

activities were aimed at the most incredi-

be dictator ever to emerge on the inter-

Aincrican scene. Dr. Francois Duvalier,

lapa Doc, J'resident for Life, P'rotector

of the l'cople, Maximun Chief of the

Kosolution. Apostle of National Unity,

Electrifer of

Commerce and Industry.

Bencfactor of

the Poor has been, for more than 12 years,

the absolute ruler of Haiti. He has shown

Nitler: more murderously cunning than

Stalin: more (cared than Mussolini; and

i good lit richer than all thee departed

dictators put together.

le is estimated that fully ball of Haiti's

$28 mullion national budger goes directly

into Duvalier's pocket. His secret bank

holdings in the U.S. and Europe were

mid lo be in excess of s22 million in

1065, at i time when Haiti's national

bank rescres were down to $700,000.

Pare of this wealth is explained simply

by Papa Doc's reluctance lu spend. Not

long ago, an American businessman try

ing to reach Arthur Bonhome, Haiti's

ambassador in Washington, found that

the embassy phone had

hech

discon-

nected for nonpayment. But most of it

scins from l'apa Doc's unique vision of

statesmauship. Considering himself a lis:

ing incarnation of the Haitian fag and

"national spirie." he view's all

public

rerenues as his personal assets.

Yce schile Papa Doc has grown fat in

Ücanoisseur's Choice in ant

couturies.

sai and to

ALPHON

tons.

*Number lin America

From the Azores to Zanzibar, and in every

American city in between, pipe smokers

who demand the finest, light up with

Amphora. Extra mild, slow-burn-

ing cool taste is the reason for

Amphora's world-wide fame.

Try a pouch of Amphora and

discover how pleasing a pipe

tobacco can be. Amphori

...the great tobaces the

Dutch ship here

with pride.

АДІРНОПА

BROVN

Regular

AMPHORA

BLUE

Mold Aromatic

Full Aromator.

power, his country has senoved as no ter

publie of the Americas ever starved in

modern history. In the arid, rocky, road.

less backcountry, balnes with a birth de

fect are drowned by their desperate

ents like amned cats; and beater.

chikdren are offered for sale like carde.

Corrosive famine his eaten

basic bonds of humanity; in 1962 Wash-

ington began receiving reports-although

it has long been reluctant to discuss them

in public-that for the first time since

pre-Columbian days cannibalism has in-

filtrated the western hemisphere in Haiti.

In 1902-afer the bitter Day of Pigs

was over and done with-Adolf A. Berle,

one of the conedy ministration's ad.

visces on Caribbean alfairs, publisheel a

startling article in

The Reporter, known

to revel the President's thinking. le bc-

gan with these words:

"The current Caribbean crisis in Plaiti

may prove bigger and more dangerous

than Cuba. Bigger, because it builds on

the arcady perilous Cuban

"More dangerous, because il presents the

possibility of ie race war.

Only 50 miles from Cuba across the

crucial Windward l'assage

miles from the U.S.), Haiti thus became

a high-priority problem.

Throughout

196%, Washington-Arst the State Depart-

mene, then State and the Defense De-

partment, then State and Defense and

the CIA, finally even she White House

forcign-policy shop-pulled and hauled

at all the customary strings used to make

Caribbean caciques change their ways.

But, much like Castro, Duvalier refused

Tle send die 115 ambiassaslan.

Newlegin, packing, threw sunt she burn

ican military mission, expelled an U.

sis olficial bear raising his side in o.

monstrason. and later lead he apposede

neglectral of the spirinal sidle of things.

mind the long resident Episempal bishop ol

Hame, a gentle midwesterner mined .ll.

Ired Voggell, Carted to the airpont with in

motol at hishcad and dumped alrer ile

But Fidel Gastro was one thing: dollo.

as President Kenned came to dealise

had nomistakable political genius al

powerin allies in the vase Laser blos

Duvalier, on the other hand, wish his

ancontrollable behavior,

Washington as demener. Ne die sugges

tion of his balded advisers, President hem

merly decided to gise Papa Doe: it sunneg

Late in 1962 i distinguished U.S. per

chiatrist experienced in dealing with the

ceremoricities of execurives was summoned

le Wishington and colisted in i choist.

magger stratagem no diagnose lap:s

Doc. Do provide the psychiatrise with is

sale cover and access to the umpredict.

able Haitian dictator, he was ostensibly

appointed to i senior position with thr

•S. enbasy in Maid. The cmbassy. on

White House orders, arranged a private

dinner with Doctor Dosalier and sis o

it that the risiting doctor was seated sir.

legically opposite the unsuspecting pies.

alent where he could engage luth in

observation and conversation with lapi

---

## Page 15

vi

my, in is doeign Service aumals, the

polehanris New back to Washingion. He

minic his diplomatic passport do i

ng White lInuse adviser with the re-

port thin.

"Duralier is a psychopath-

there doe unmistakable symptoms of para-

noid megalomania. He is a very sick man.

lie treets to loc relieved from the pres.

sures of the presidency, and competent

Irement and i long rest."

Tie see do is that Papa Doc was

IC-

lieved from the burdens of the presidency

now became, on President kennedy's or

slers. the responsibility of the U.S. imel-

ligence and security establishmem. 'The

however, was to be deliv

steel by macinion through the Stare De

May 28. 1963. U.S. Ambassador

Kaymond.

Thunson. (who had succeeded

Ambassadod Newbegun, Hanked by coery

smo 11.s. mulary ollcer not yer kicked

mut of lianti, drove up do the palace with

the Stars and Stripes Hying and strode

Persident Duvalier's privete

What happened next has been a closely

guarded secret, umil Duvalier himself ic.

counted it to a buropean visitor recently:

"Ambassador Thursion appeared one

erening to tell me plainly that I must go.

Tc came and said that the country was in

revole and my enemies about in seize

posed. but that the Omeo Stales would

help sire:

me personally provided. of

course. 1a8 1 gave no double and went

rictly. Well. I was scater at

this very

dest innel the ambassador esactly where

silting

American deed was in our coastal waters,

belt

thc

ambassador

Gnished, I

looked it that clock there and then i

srid: 'It is you who must go. I give you 21

hours to leave our country.

And now,

yet out of my presence Thurston left

Port-l-Prince, and, you know, nothing.

POLICE.

POLICE,

: H.. 110

devolution, no read escape to exerthrow

mc, none of the things Washingson es.

pected in order do legin landing

ils

Marines ever came to pass."

But Papa Doc was far too modest. We

know now that it the American ambassa-

dor's threats failed to materialize. it was

not for want of Washington's trying-and

trying, trying again-to wipe the Duvalier

regime off the map. But what no one has

been able to find out unil now is just

how lapa Doc has managed to resist seven

years of border invasions. amphibious

tempts and Special Forces-mained gucr

Last year. for the fist time, the GlA

ame the U.5: Justice Department came

into "hard" information indicating that

in carly 1063. just

Washington were beginning to boil. Papa

Doc was visiied by a plenipotentiary en.

roy of U.S. organized crime: Joseph "Joc

Banamas" Bonanno. then boss of Nes

posemally most

powerful Malia family:

Joe Bananas had nor come to Portan-

Prince looking to fight anyone; he came

looking for the casino

concession. and

after some private talks with Papa

he got it. As peacelully is it he were

franchising a Mr. Softee ice-cream stand.

Joe Bananas installed Vito de Filippo,

one of his veteran ca poregimas, do handle

the Portin-Prince gambling setup, dud

returned to New York-head-on into #

shooting war.

le was it murderous intra-Natha power

struggle, now known as the Banana War.

After several months-and i loll of 11

corpses oe Bananas had to retreat. lic

recided to move to Matt. Now he came

to see: lapa Doc in the bone-white palace,

not as a visiting businessman, but as an

ally in search of i confederate.

full join

Jose Bananas in Por

gambling

concessions, Dis shcrease

rommed a well kept secree. Tatued acc-

ulation everywhere leaned toward

the

conclusion that old Bananas ine gone lo

sca in concrete overshoes. And when loe

Bananas Goally scappened in the 1'.5.

sound and suntanned, the Maba was. lor

once, gemuncly awed. A topical. lou

isy line country like that, where Cill

and FBl and Treasury and other feder

igents were excluded as archenemies. had

obvious potential of its own.

Papad Doc, for his part, had insco dis.

covered the special advantages of a mu-

luid assistance pace with the syndicate.

The discovered them when-hard pressed

by clandestine enemy landings

long coastline he went to Washington

ere buy some badly needed patrol crate.

The specifications on the procureme

list Maiti submitted 1o the U.S.

Deparmen in Are 1963 looked Marnies

1 Pen N8 boars. 05 1o 125 feet in

length with metal hulls and diesel cn-

gines. armed with multiple cannon and

machinc-gun mounts

2 Thrce small LCS's (Landing Cil,

3 Five IGVP's (Landing Galt Voli-

cles-Personnel)

4. One small moral hulled mughan

5 One small buoy tender vessel

These were inoffensive conse-gend.

wist nation. But in the special case of

Papa Doc, the Sale Department took it

single look at the shopping list and firmly

Nevertheless ly

Papa Doc's little ser squadron inspunerd

about half the vessels Washington berse

intended it to have. (The requiremen

for LOVIe's was scratched.) Where did

they come from? U.S. intelligence poins

1o in shadowy man, Mas Immedor-sund

the syndicate.

Intractor, a short lotund, clanming

European known as a Murder passlei

i.e., a man whose origins are lost among

the hundred dillerent passports he user-

sas ill important sypelicate

specialise

when the Lansky mob controlled gam

bling in pre-Castro

lavand:

# 10110}

mover. In mob hierarchy, i money morer

Tanks very near the top, a truster execu-

tive skillful in exactly

what the mane

implies-safekceping, hiding,

smuggling.

exchanging.

depositing.

investing

ilmel

paying out money without ever rescaling

the real owner on causing him troule:

with tax authorities.

In Havana,

after Cistro's entrover.

Mix Intrattor became i money mover

with a front-line command, so to speil.

It was his job to prevent the Maximu

Chief of the Revoluion from getting his

hands on the roomfuls of moncy belong

ing to the Maximum Chief of the Sy-

dicate, Meyer Lansky.

This involved exchanging ill of it

into U.S. currency-moderate-denomina-

tion, unlised dollar bills-a polo Tarrar

tor accomplished with marvelous speed.

mayng two, three, four pesos to the dol.

---

## Page 16

Save money

on firewood

with your

own

chain saw

Low-cuan

many benents of owning your ovin

Homelite chain saw. You can prune and

limb, clear storm damage, fell trees up

to 3 10el thick, even make rustic shelters

and garden furniture.

A light pull on the starter cord is all il

takes to get started. The Homelite E-z is

so lighiweight, well balanced and easy

to use that you'll fino you're a natural

woodsman after only a lew minutes

praclice.

Drop in at your Homelite dealer; he's in

the Yellow Pages. Test cut with a new

E-z or other models in this world famous

line - You'll take home a Homelite.

take home a Homelite®

HOMELITE

FREE

BOOK

Send for this free book, full of

information on how to choose the

right chain saw for you.

Homelite, 10404 Riverdale Ave., Port Chester, N.Y.- Afextron DIVISION

Castro canceled the currency in lavor

of in new issue, and anyone caught hold-

one di them, equipped with U.S. 50cal-

ing more than a hundred Cuban pesus

ber muchine guns and a 20mn. aule.

lose it. Mas Immattor was obsiously ready

matic cannon, helped Irisemie a ClA-

for bigger things.

sponsored commando landing at Cit

In 1961 Mas appeared in Kome will

Haitien.

i naval shopping lis. le shower no wear

Machine guns, cannon, rilles. i8m--

sos decr for having been crumples anc

hese were equally buring problems

They-could-not-very-well beausche-di

In face. it looked like a diferent show..-ltaly. because Haiis existing stockpiles

ping list. What Mas was looking for was

were all U.S.-made. Duvalier tured to

the sort of small, surplus, inoffensive lit-

flie syndicate.

de offshore boat the European shipyards

"It was like Castro turning to the

will produce at surprisingly low cost from

Russians" says Edwin Marger, a Miami

converted U.S. subchasers, old PT boat

hulls or steel-bulled Mosquito boats.

lawyer-pilot who is own the ope

perts on munitions law in the U.S.

Papa Doc learned there is no necd to

member, Duvalier was under a war ent

truckle to Washington for naval craft:

bargo, loo except als one was secret.

the U.S. Nary has sold hundreds as sur-

The fact is Haiti could not clear a 15B

plies in recent years, and all you need to

gun through Washington beiween 1905

wal the right ships with the nght gun

and 1965; U.S. Customs would contiscate

mounts is the right connections. And

ias

the shotgun shells in your suitcase if they

Italy, the mob had connections-far, far

better connections than the stulled-shirt

State Department, for instance.

"Although we knew that Haiti needed

coast-guard

craft, the buyers were

90

•crafty that it look us a year to realize

lose Italian patrol boats had gone to

Duvalicr." a U.S. agent said recently ir

Washington.

"They were first routed to

Belgium, then to Montreal, then to a lot

dummy

Bahamian consignees-no

Haitian government had ever used that

sure of quadruple shuffle before.""

Washington does know, however, tar

Duvalier's dreadnoughts were in service

around who could help them,

Lansky's crowd. And Lansky-when you

get south of Jacksonville, well, there is

Nixon and Agnew, and in the British

and French islands there's the Queen

and de Gaulle, but when you say

you mean only one man, all over the

blue water-Lansky. So when Lanskys

crowd decided to help Haiti, the Wash-

ington crowd was in trouble.

In some cance, Marper acknowieupid.

the mob heiped Papa Doc locate hard-le

find munitions in the gunrunning mar-

ket; in others, actual purchases were fi-

APRIL 1970

manceal; and in still others, the syndicate's

sole sas to snuggle guns past the U.s.

cinbargo and deliver them in Port-au-

Prince. -

" Marger

asked. Ye white the dis was Sayi

ships, guns and planes to overthres Du

salies, the agudicate was giving lois te

"And planes, too." Marger grinned: he

hael served as defense couse for mor

than onc gunrunner caught skating stull

to Haiti, and warmed to the possibilities

of the question.

"If you want more es.

pertise, ask Wally Shandley."

Supervising Customs Agent Wallice.]:

Shandley is one of the U.S. government:

inosa

prestigious

Caribbean

expores.

Posted in Miami during the '60's, hic his

been in charge of more gunrunning in

restigations than any other single leder

agent. He never talks to reporters. It's

finally ines at dinner-Marger, Shandle:

and Charles Nevs a towering, stolid

Haitist businessman who had once hech

a clandestine gun shopper himsell for

Papa Doc Duralier-and while Agent

Shandles will not declare himsell for

- the record on anything traccable lu

Washington's invisible governmcne. hr

has no similar communications block ou

syndicate activities: "There is no doubi.

he said siowly, a tall, lanky man sar

into his drink.

"that organized crime is

responable for supplying prohibited not

itary equipment to the Maitian greer.

ment."

61

---

## Page 17

BOOTH

Asked about the planes mentioned by

Marger, Shandley nodded:

"Military aircraft have been repeatedly

smuggled to Flaiti from the U.S.,"

he said.

"Take the

T-28 all-purpose fighter.

bomber training plane.

Washington spe

rifically put them on embargo,

but Du-

valier got some anyway, and it was a

criminal ramaction.

The masterious case of the contraband

T.28's threw a sharp instant's light on

the hidden workings of secret wars. Two

of the snuggled warplanes purchased

from private dealers

were trace to

Randall Lee Lihridge, i Palin Beach

pilot known as a busy friend of Haiti;

beyond Ethridec, the trail led to Vito de

Filippo, the Cosa Nostra viceroy in Port-

au-Prince.

"The 7:28 case demonstrates the fal.

lacy of trying to wage undeclared war

in it democracy," says i distinguished

Wishington observer familiar with Ca-

"Those aircralt were

smuggled to Haiti "baredeck'-that is,

Duvalier neciled an expert air-craft ar-

morer to install gun mounts and can-

and antomated homb bays

rocket seruts. It's a tricky job. 'The mob

found l'apa Doc an armorer in Miami

and hireel him at $200 per diem, and sent

hima secretly to Port-an-Prince via Luca-

yan Beach and Kingston. The trouble

wits that this happened

to be the best

Trec-lance armorer between Atlanta and

licy Largo, so naturally he was also the

(IA's occasional contract armorer-he'd

done quite i few quick jobs for the

spooks, liventually Customs heard about

ise: "T'-28 caper. When the armorer came

Back to Miami-job all done, moncy in

the bank in Nassau-he was arrested and

interrogated. Customs was rubbing its

hands

and working up indictments

against a whole line of mobstcre from

could not be produced in court withou

the danger of revealing the same sort ol

shady secrets about the CIA. Finally the

government just dropped the casc.

Wherever the military couipment came

from, Papa Doc neered it desperately, for

throughout the '60's Washington's invis-

ible government pressed its attack on

the detested dictator.

In 1963 Gen. Leon Cantave,

white-haired, widely

the

respected former

chief of stall of Haitis army and a self.

cxile from Duvalicr's dictatorship, was

secretly olleres funds and facilities by a

White House adriser for a commando in-

vasion of Haiti across the Dominican

frontier. The funds subsequently came

from the joint CIA-DIA opcrations

group. When money proved insullicient

General • Cantave's little anti-Duvalici

army was provided with weapons, am-

munition and other war supplics via di-

rect night drops into the Dominican

mountains from an unmarked U.S. Navy

planc, muci as U.S. units on the firin

line would be resupplied

howerer, some necessi-

ties-training and discipline, for instance

that could not be supplice by direce

airdrop. When Cantave's campaign Miler

for want of such essentals, the ClA-DIA

task force began to train anti-Duvalier

activists directly, first in a seeice camp

scar Fort Holabird, Maryland.

the JFK Special Warfare Center in Fort

Bragg, North Carolina.

In 196% and 1965 two U.S.-traincd

• Haitian commando groups,

like the basic Special Forces "A"

in 19-man units, went ashore in somhern

Haiti.

The first one was i spearhead

force, intended to set up a resupply drop

zone and to provide leadership for loca

insurgents. Six months later, the second

team-a smaller unit of eight men. lour

of them Americans went briefty ashore

on a simpler mission: to check the are.

around Termie and find out firsthan

1.d1.

creel ime cheweel dupe doe line lose door iss

Darliers butcher-bird anisa, the lon

ton Macoutes.

The invisible government in Wishing

Papa Doc and

loking charge of lam

called for American lendership. In Att.

when Father leon-lapse ricoigs

Catholic pricst

who

heel becan

Hili's

Minister of Education, begin to organise

a major commando expelition in lida.

i U.5. Special Forces Capritin named Roh

ert h. Brown sucdenly appeared mong

the recrits.

A Miami journalise with intimate Cil.

conections arranged i secret morting in

his Coral Gables home between the Dei.

tian cxile leader and the U.S. ollicer. .

this mecting Captain Brown. a wiry.

commanding gure in his Viet Nam com

bat fatigues, squatted on the living.soom

ing with a shece of paper and showed

Father Gorges how a commando opera

tion against Duvalier's stronghold should

be planned.

- The captain was

ready to lead the

Assault Bad

litele 300-man arby.

Unexpectedly

thic

secretive, stubborn

Haitian leader

de

cided

againse

handing command to

unfamiliar American: a few ccks later,

his entire "invasion force" and all their

arschal were seized by U.S. Customs. M-

though Father Georges had been repcit-

arrested in

Florida for similar

violations ot the U.S. Neutrality Aal, but

somchow never indicted, this time lie

was hauled into federal court and giscu

a prison sentence.

In 1968 another major anti-Duvali

air-sea

assaull,

sperleaded by

Humphrey, was launched from Florida

by a group of Haitian exiles US. pilois.

instructors, boatmen and demolition ex-

perts handled all key opcrational assign-

mcnts. Most of the financing came from

the secret funds of Washington's invis

ible government.

But by far the heaviest toll sas paid

by the men-and their wives and children

who became involved in Washington's

anti-Duvalier campaign.

One of the young Haitian militants

who participated was Bernard Sausatics.

29, a graduate of the Bordentown Mili-

tary Institute, who risked his life repeat-

cdly to liberate his country. A recent con-

fidential report of the Organization of

American States on the destruction of

human rights in Haiti lists the name of

Sansurica i dozen times, including three

under seven and a pregnint

Every one of these nich, women and

children was put to death by the 'Tonton

Macoutes in retaliation for Bernard San-

sarica's enlistment in the Haitian secret

war.

The women were rapeal, time im

again, anil they shricked for deaths: il

canne, in some cases, with the slavering

assault of a sadistic torturer known is

"Ti Fer" (Iron Uncle), who tore his vic

tims apart with a spiky iron collar ai

tached to his genitals.

There are also reports of small sirl

sexually abused and impaled with bottk.

---

## Page 18

wooed loans shadered againse the wall

Lordose clicir mothers eyes.

This am-Dustlier campign, the

Eld. incredibly, often was forced to stand

ly helplessly while its trainees

rickline ferre is a slim, sophisticated

wis ims been familiar with the Haitian

freedom light for joars: she has gisen it

1me and ellort, and Gnally she gave her

"What happened was the ClA picked

sp moy bance. Nas Arinand, along with

mone 30etlers, tood them all to Marvland

on sure covetel trucks for training," Miss

Me Hold Taus resent.

"The's were

mes called tremselves the frune Maiti

Say They gone sighie seeks special

lodes daining. ending in some sort of

jungle tiniog exercise. And they got

M916' grat-hicarms, communications and

amphibious equipment, wharever they

acedeil. They were supposed to begin

oganizing the opposition, serve as il

"Whese the linse team landed in the

southa of Haiti, Max was second-in- con•

ral into Duralier's militia all around

Kennic, and there were fire fights almost

enly day and they began taking casual.

Then their

broken or lost,

we don't know; we just

couldn't communicate with thent.

"le gradnally became obvions that un-

less something was done these boys were

cookedl. Anel we crier-listen, the CIA

sully tried-to get some help to the boys

o sorchow save what was left of them.

And we couldn't do a thing. Washing

son just shut down on us: it was like

runting into a stone wall-nothing. All

the lays were-killed. My. fancé, too. 1

hase since found out how he died, but-

I don't think I can talk about it. Any-

CT. guys-the people who

tainer and erripped the boys-were ter-

and said someone was

pollong strings behind their backs to de-

stroy the expedition. The only thing they

could do sas chip in, juse like in ollice

collertion, and pay for a Requiem Nass,

i incmorial service for the dend. It was

right here in New York, on 14th Street.

Tache too. All the CIA guys and families

aud girls of the dead boys were there; the

aisle wis a river of lears."

In all this sie scenc-Washington's in-

Misble government praying for the heroic

mons it load traineal out coule mot sup

parl-the sagalicant sentence

the "pulling of strings" belind the CIA's

Even in Washington, where the local

industries are lobbying, fixing,

influcnce

perling and public relations, this muse

have been a dillicult feat. Whoever went

lo bat for Duvalier confronted the vast

Washington foreign-allairs burcaucracy-

the Stare Department, the intelligence

establishmche, the angry Organization of

American States, some of whose mem-

ber states were privately urging the U.S.

to forget about diplomatic niceties and

send in the Marines.

Our investigation encountered virtual

consensus that only one statesman of or.

"al:

it tate di

1070%

Lifetinis

Service

_ Guarantee

Send 25f soday for your copy of the NEW colorfully illustrated, 32-page Fisherman's Hanubock.

gankeel crime could have surned the ness organizations under his influence:

trick: Meyer Lansky, mighty Meyer, cabo

In Niami, Lanskg money helpert my

di capi de, boss of bosses, tie world's most

influential money mover and corrupter.

a far-flung outbe known as Interbariotal

We know that when Japa Doc's time

Airport Intel Systers, whose associar.

came to include some milnential Wasi

of troubles began, mysterious go-betweens

procured him a very influential Washing

ingron figures, most prominently No:

i told o the take whipray

well N. Rabb, who served as secretary lo

the Cabinet under President Rismlose:

and had been right hand man do Vice-

1060 Toternational Airget Hotel

Syses developed am amissakolle in.

Present Lyndon Jolnson. Bobby Haker

terest in Maiti. Lansky money lonel is,

had is rare galasy of gilis: he was an in-

wily into another promotion-mindeed our

Muental Gyure among clected ollicials, a

Close friend of 1ob). and a natural-born

fit with strong Washingion conction:

fixer with a quick mind.

-Bobby Gene Baker's Sero-ll Comprosa

tion. Serv-U was bascally just a venomy

Baker was taken to the mountaintop

machine company, but in the midlid's i

and shown the promise of Hairi by a pair

found itself with some new associates

ol Meyer Lithskg's Washington lobbyists:

Ben Sigelbaum-i senior mob money

Eel Levinson, Ding Cellini and Tonner

mover-and Tollerinon, whe came to

Nevada Is. Goi. Clitt Jones-ll of when:

Lansky and Halt by way of las Vegas

hael, as it liv

comradence, serrel lorisi

amel Miami. Quicker Mam good sa sily

108s of elms in Danti sending some sher:

"orket," Baker found banell plugged

or other connecteel win gambling Ailn

into i setup which panel hume a penny

rally chough, they were all enthusian

tribule on crory pound of meat slaugh

Duvalier boosters. Clift Jones--Whee ilong

tered and exported from Mailinnimal

with Cellini, has been long considered In

U.S. authorities as a front for Lansts:

mcat, not human llesh. Magically, meat

exports began to soar.

proved an indefatigable lobbyist for flairi

and its many potential pleasures

Baker's butcher bonus was,

howerer, merely a beachhcad for Duva-

lier's and Lansky's combinerl forces.

In 1061 Bobby Baker and len bigel

Lansky's vision of the Caribbean as a

bawn became insolvel in helping la

lush blue-water empire of gambling, four-

charter a new bank in Washington.

1106

banking venture atmeed intlucntial

isin, covert banking and real-estate ma-

people-oue of them a poseful (im

nipulation came to include Haiti in

gressional activist in Caribbean altrir

central position by the mid 60's. This

statesmanlike concept from the dean of

Becoming involved with banking ai

gave Baker an idea of another way d

U.S. organized crime in turn permeated

heip Papa Doc-by giving line monty

every nook and cranny of the many busi-

The giant international banks beign 1o

---

## Page 19

ma lodeoge and and loans

le invalier-it a time

when the

•invisibde governone" was sending men

to their destins trying to overthrow him.

Another des area in which Washing.

low's "invisible government"

proved you.

less was the assiguing of U.S. ambassa

dors. Here: the Senate

and the White

House "kichen cabines" had the deci

What developed gradually was in mys.

DOD1011E

"the-cagle-has-two-heads"

policy

wish macise results:

In conly lil, just as the ClA began 10

real oll ami Duvalier recruits to thin at

redes 11.5. &0mps, the White House sent

oi do ness 01.5. ambassador to Haiti. The

mangelle, is man whr secree

pepared do coesist with lapa Doc it any

Noreover, alhough Duvalier coul not

jars a pemmy out of Washington through

Maid. by 100 the Johnson Administra-

Bank

told

Paper Doc doo pick up a 52.6 million loam;

see Initions died so hastily, for under the

exceptonally generous terms see by the

bank. it was an outright gil in all but

The Alliance

for

Progress ilso

smiled on Duvalier and granted him a

$ million funding guarantee for i new

petroleum refinery.

sell contradictory. Mom Washingon'and

New York, the ClA inaut

radio broadcases beamed to Maii fom

Station W'KUL and Radio Americas, then

ollicially known as the Vanguard Service.

Corporation, urging the people to over.

"boorly despot

other sources in Washington

Jork. some close to the

kirchen cabiner, began to urge a revi-

sal of U.S. tourism in Haiti. Tragicomi

cally: the U.S. Ning-deeply involved be

hand the scenes in atrempes to get rid of

Duvalier-mas told to pome the pump

for tourism by reactivating Port-an Prince

as in lease pore for sailors.

As luis spadicate suppon solidified.

Paper Doe greis bolder. Do prove that he

could ouspook the ClA anywhere, even

on sis own home gromnds. his secret

igems in New York infiltrated the studios

of WROL one night and switched the

recorded tapes being processer for sup-

ment to Swan Iland. What went on die

air a fen days later, instead of the pro-

gramnes hall-hour anti-Duvalier broad.

song-of praise. for. Papa

The spooks struck back by instigating

investigation of the Haitin

consul general in Miami, Eugene Maxi-

milien, who was suspected of abusing his

duty-free diplomatic privileges in the im-

Trucker

"Who are you? Why didn't Neil and Buzz come back?"

prostition col seedle sa.

ends porn,

rasable goods.

As the invisible sar cominued, no rine

was sale. Aber the Jay Humpley bomb.

ing raie on Duvalier's palace, the young

U.S. forcign service oilicer suspecial al

being the ClA station chief in liaii.

Thomas H. Carter-pincially accredited

as the third secretary of the U.S. embass

mas beaten bloody by a Tomon Mi

coure chug. Duvalier sent him back in

Washington on a stretcher, along with

an "apology" for the "incidemt."

Odelly enough, while hundreds of per.

ole died in thic

invisible war.

and mil.

lions of dollars went down the drain. i

remainer a secret. The Haitians, Cobs

indl

Americins enlisted by

the Cl

could not reveal their rage in Wishing.

son's "double shullle" withou compre

mising the intelligence establishmen-

their single source of suppore.

This hekd true eren when the cisul.

lies were Americans. le is largely forger-

seas now that the list diplomaic crisis

bercen Washingon and the destron

..Dusalier regime occurrest over the 1957

murder of an American citizen. Shibler

Talamas. by the Port-au-Prince police

Duvaler sent the widow $100,000 in cash.

and the matter was considered sellert.

But there were no indemmities last yer

when a machine gunner nameel Gorall

Smith died in the course of a sexint"

iambing moid on Papa Doc's palace, kal

by veteran tropical combat llier Hosarl

Davis. who bas flown for the CIA both in

Cula and Viet Nam.

soning olf

wouleb have been unhinkable. Do seetall

here. for one thing.

coole of omertà, the traelition of silence. i

tradition deeper in the inderworld than

in the imolligence establishmen. Amel

worthless unless it semanice is secrel..

"Ever since orgamized crime became in

invisible empire of sorts" a Justice D):-

sriment ollicial toll Taur, "People like

Lansky have looked for the perlect sony

a completely controlled province. frec

of intruders of every sort, free of U.S.

agents, tax moops undercover investigs

tors, local politicians hustling pagolls-

free of all the intrusions that make gam

bling summentally a slicey proposi.

The U.S. ollicial explaineal that in suct

i controlled scrup. gabling could. loo

once, be fixed "as it should be" in line

prolessional gambler's dicam-seichil-

ally, invisibly, permancutly and pre

isely. so as not to scare away the sucken

"Suppose." he said, "that this perfect

gambling haven comes with its own tres

my system; that is a wholly autonomons

trading enclave, a free port, where mont!

can de collected, exchanged, transfered

or converted into goll for instance

once again, without snooping or hassling.

New suppose that the big boss she has

had the strcogth and patience to build

up this perfect property, investing mil.

Jious over a long period when the props.

sition looked like juse another rathole-its

Lansky has done in Haiti-suppose this

boss of bosses also has an

exclusive

option on thousands of acres of beach.

(Continued on pagr dil

---

## Page 20

- Tro!

sanel that is bosed to

become

- ialuable as the resul of his scheme? What

sort of winnings woule that make? Well,

o Grand Bahama,

Wallace Groves, a

perly ex-convict

whose one stroke of

genius may well have been finding a con-

nection to Meyer Linsky, not long ago

bongin 211 square miles of land at the

everyo price of 52.80 per acre. Not quite

three: dollars, ch? Now the same land sells

149

American suckers at prices up

to

$50.000 per acre.

This sort of option

in known simply as a license to print

Teur has seen hitherto unpublished

evidence that this lush Lanskyland in

the breast of Mairi is no utopia

but i

working blueprime. Some of the evidence

was turned up by the U.S. Justice De-

parinent's organized crime strike

force

created by Attorney General

Ramsey

Clank sluring his recent tenure.

On January 8. 1960, ill Miami Inter-

national Airport, a suike force

Justice Department attorncy's

Parle and Wallace Johnson, seized

chartered Super-Constellation

planeload of huge crites consigned to

Port-au-Prince. Inside the crates were the

electronically rigged, practi-

cally dictection-proof gambling gear, re-

moscly controlled to cheat a tourist out

of il single C-note or his life savings. It

100k FBI technicians a month to assem-

enced investigator told True in Miami,

dice and roulette tables are fantastic.

They are not just another gimmick; they

open up i whole new era in which the

"house' -the professional.

never have to gamble again.

I'eur: obtained offcial FBI color pho-

rograplis of the crooked casino equip-

revealing that under the green

felt all the tables contained invisible elec-

tromagnets. These magnets remain incrt

is to say, impossible to detect-

until a "juice man"

activates them with

il tiny remote-control. device known as a

" Then all it takes is a quick elec-

Ironic signal (transmitted to

via a hielden amplifier) for the juice man

les control the roll of any slice or whicel

in the casino. The pitmen and croupicis

idl other identifable casino employees

can keep their hands in sight with per-

fect innocence; they don't have to do a

A second Haiti-bound plancload of

wick casino furniture was seized at the

airport somewhat later.

The

crooked tables were connected by federal

investigators to Sid Jacobs, Dino Cellini,

loe Napolitano

and Joseph Krikorian-

all longtime Lansky mes.

"Remember that when we grabbed

Iliese 'juice tables' a million-dollar tour-

up to lure

merican fuckers to Trie, says a tere

eral investigator,

"Both Pan American

ind Trans Caribbean Airways were eag-

"ily promoting travel there. Their leaf-

lets ind ads emphasized that in Haiti

the casinos were Happy to take care of

in rambline needs.

It was true-but

BEFORE YOU DU: ANY MOWI

SNA PIPEA

IT'S DIFFERENT!

O No other mower is built like it!

• No other mower performs like it!

• No other mower is so useful!

VACUUM CLEANS YOUR LAWN

WHILE MOWING TO PIAFECTION

Collects clippings, leaves, pine straw, etc.

in the extra large, center mounted

bag. Trims close on either side. A

JOY to use ... year 'round

Hand or Self-Propelled

21" Priced as low as

*$1/0.95

Plus freight and taxes

*Suggested list price.

See your dealer

(check Yellow Pages)

or write for free brochure

and dealer name.

McDONOUGH

POWER EQUIPMENT.

INC.

McDONOUGH, GEORGIA 30253

!!! FUCUC

Financial sources with an interest in

certain that the contretemps

of the casino fixtures has not sidetracked

the syndicate's plans for a killing in Flai-

lian real estate. The executive vice-presi-

dent of a Caribbean development cor-

poration based in Montrcal is so firmly

convinced of this that he had recently

acquired a chaufleur for his Alfa-Romeo

sports car, along with i shotgun to be

kept under the chaufleur's seat.

'I never dreamed l'd need a body

guard," the executive told Trur recently,

'But we are under mcreasing pressure

from hoodluns to relinquish our beach-

front land options near Poran-Prince

and on Gonâve Island to some very good

pcople' in Florida. Relinquish them,

mind you, for token paymem. Of course,

we have stockholders to think of. We

cin't sell off land options if we know they

are about to appreciare: and that's wat

will happen if i new gambling and tour-

ist boom starts up in flaiti.

ocally feeling the muh pressure to sell

Morcover, as 1970 began, i new figure

appeared in l'ort-au-Prince. Immaculate

and dapper as ever, Siniling Mike Mc

Laney radiated charm and the promise

of casy riches is he made ready to reopen

the International Casino.

In the '50's, when Meyer Lansky ruled

gambling in Cuba, Mike McLaney man-

aged Havana's foremost casino, the glit-

tering Nacional. In the '60's, when Lan-

sky's trail turned to the Bahamas, so did

McLaney's. As Hank Messick, the patient

noted in this connection:

"Where mot

nized crime is concerned, history has i

waly of repeating itself."

It does, indeed. For the '70's open sinh

Mike McLaney, still the most cool dul

polished casino managcr west of Mond

Carlo, preparing to bring late orp

Haiti her first real scason of big-a'.

gambling.

Will it work? In recent momhis, the

Nixon Administration has begun 1o pris

inlicements ol

Haitian and Durdlin

militants who, in carlier years, enjoye

strong GlA support. Washington is sir:

to have decided to live wide lipa l.

It is now entirely possible that Mitiri

will blossom into the El Dorado of cir

piers, casino operators, hoodlums, min

•makers.

promoters, real-estate

mumbered-account brokers. and f

whores envisioned as the

achievemem of Meyer Lansky's Canüir

bean empire-building. But it will rew."

a land of beggars, blood and bestiali!

for Haitians so long as Papa Doc is alise:

"And maybe that is Mr. Lansky's on

miscalculation-an actuarial error.'

Bernard Sansarica. the sad-eyedl, scoll.

spoken young ami-Dusalier leader whos

entire family has vanished into the pint.

ace's sorturé chambers. "Mister Lalusly

is smart, but he has scen so much killing

he is hard to surprise, no? Maybe we wili

surprise him soon with juse one killu;

And when we kill Duvalier, we will li

with him every single thing ever loudin

by Mr. Lansky and his invisible dowr

---

## Page 21

JON STERN

and as a paramilitary "adviscr." He is

hemisphere. 1

am totally opposed to

a compulsive warrior, an armed cru-

it, and to thé spread of ideological

sader fighting against what Gov. Les-

germs and filth that it brings."

ter Maddox calls "ungodly Common-

Now and again,

WerBell's name

ism." WerBell is not alone in this oc-

pops into the news, bringing Powder

cupation, but he practices it in a

Springs a certain national

attention.

unique manner. Most soldiers of for- _Andrew Strearg a noted journal-

tune are nothing else; and they-live

ist-adventurer, a few years ago wrote

from one little war to the next, brawl-

pieces for True and London's Daily

ing and boozing their way through a

Telegraph Magazine on arms brokers

tough and financially unrewarding

and sprinkled them liberally with tales

life.

and pictures of WerBell's exploits.

WerBell, by contrast, is a business-

The first issue of the new muckraking

man who dabbles in military adven-

magazine, Scanlan's, carried an ex-

ture only when and as far as it suits

haustive story on CBS' involvement in

bim. If combat didn't titillate him. he

an abortive invasion of Haiti in 1966-

wouldn't partake of it. His business is

and WerBell was credited with a

supplying weapons, not using them in

major, if uncertain, role in the opera.

anger. He specializes in the weapons

tion. (WerBell was arrested and in-

and

techniques of "counter-insur-

dicted

after the fiasco, but charges

gency,

" which may be roughly de-

against him were dropped, while six

fined as the forceful suppression. of

others arrested were brought to trial.

coups d'étal, rebellions and the like.

The way

WerBell

operates,

this

Asked by a friend for an explanation,

WerBell replied jauntily, "When vou

means defending established regimes,

ork for the company, They take cal

some of them dictatorships, against

you. I'll never heard another wol

armed revolt. This political posture

about it." So far he hasn't; he main-

not only does not trouble WerBell, it

tains.)

pleases him. "I have no objection to

Last December, WerBell hit the

dictatorship if it serves the interests of

front page of The Atlanta Constitu-

the country," he says. Particularly if

tion when a shipment of captured

the threat to those interests is from

enemy weapons bound from Vietnam

the left: "Communism has no place in

was detained at Eglin Air Force Base,

the Western hemisphere or in any

Florida. A national columnist conjec-

48 AUGUST: ATLANTA

tured that WerBell or his friends

meant to distribute the weapons io

right-wing extremist groups in the

U.S. WerBell

angnly

denies that.

They were souvenir weapons given to

him by friendly forces in Vietnam, he

said, and they were shipped to the

States for display in military mu-

seums:

Not surprisingly, WerBell has often

been called an operative ef the Cen-

tral Intelligence AgencY. (CIA),

charge that angers him only when it is

leveled too vehemently. It is not thai

he has anything against the CIA. He

just doesn't, he says, happen to be

one of its boys. His paramilitary

work, which consists of advising and

sometimes directly assisting foreign

governments, is done in the employ of

what he calls "an independent group

oí well-intentioned, patriotic Aineri-

cans." The Birch Society? The Min-

utemen? A bunch of far-right Texas

millionaries? WerBell won't say, other

than to insist that it is not the CIA.

It hardly matters, for according 10

WerBell it is all in the service not

only of freedom and anti-Communism

but of the U.S. government; he does

not supply or advise or fight for re-

gimes not bearing the State Depart-

ment seal of approval. A heavy per-

centage of his merchandise goes di-

---

## Page 22

14-00000

rOW?: THE DRIVEWAY that snakes And there hasn't been a single Ameri-

through the country estate came two

can casualty."

Icen-aged boys. They were clean-cut

Moments later, as WerBell and I

and handsome in the traditional col-

stood closer than I like to an operat-

lege fashion, and they looked at home

ing firearm, young Mitch and Geoff

is the quier, ieaty setting. But one

puniped round after round from the

wore a camouflage suit and carried a

weapons into the bullet-shattered hulk

large pistol in each hand; the other

of an automobile that serves as the

had an M-3 "grease gun" tucked

under one arm

and

a silencer-

primary target on the WerDell fidug

range. While the boys were loading, I

equipped sniper rifle under the other.

was struck by the incongruity of the

Behind them, propelling himself vig-

orously in a wheelchair, came their

setting. The 60-acre Powder Springs

father, Mitchell Livingston

WerBell

estate, designed to fulfill the hunting

and fishing desires of its first owner,

I1I of Pondir Springs, Georgia-sol-.

Talmadge Dobbs of the Life Insurauce

dier of fortune, militant anti-Com-

Company of Georgia, was now being

munist and one of the nation's leading

used for the design

and testing of

developers of military weapons and

accessories.

deadly weapons. Dobbs, I thought,

would spin in his grave.

Mitch IV and Geoff chatted lightly

My little reverie was interrupted by

about the weapons they were carry-

the BANG of young Mitch firing one

-ing--Their father, temporarily immo

pistol, a standard Army 45. The gun

bilized by a fractured heel, punctured

jerked upward, and the noise echocd

the conversation with brief bursts of

information about the sniper rifle, one

across the fields and treetops. He then

of his most choice products.

picked up a strange, smoothly rectan-

"This

gular handgun, an Ingram Model 1!

weapon has killed nineteen hundred

equipped with a "flash and muzzle

V.C. [Viet Cong] in six months," he

said proudly. "Those V.C. took only

suppressor," and began firing it. The

one-point-three rounds

muzzle barely moved, and the only

per kill.

sound was a metallic click, followed

Twenty-seven cents apiece they cost

by the zing of the bullet and the pop

Uncle Sam. That's the greatest cost

as it hit the target. The effect was

effectiveness the Army's ever known.

eerie, almost chilling, especially when

LEFT: Mitchell WerBall and son, Mitchell WerBell. IV

BELOW: Mitchell WerBell,

Lebanon). Amos B. Naure (M.P

for Gordian), Geoff WerBell and Gopdon ingram designero the Mely.

Kenya). John D.

THENT

EXHIBITS

young Mitch put the gun on full auto-

matic and whipped off 15 clicking

rounds in one second. Geoff provided

the same kind of demonstration with

the grease gun. a standard military

submachine gun and the sniper rifle,

which WerBell calls the XM-21 and

which is also equipped with a sup-

pressor.

On the way back to the house,

WerBell explained why the suppres-

sor, commonly called a silencer, is so

effective a firearm accessory.

hides the muzzle flash and reduces the

hiring sound lo just metal on metal.

You can't silence the bolt nöise with-

out an elaborate system, and it's not

worth it. You can't hear the bolt noise

anyway in a combat situation, so for

all practical purposes the firing is

soundless. Often, the loudest noise is

when the bullet hits home. If it hits a

human, it makes a peculiar, thunking

sound, like hitting a watermelon."

Mitch WerBell sounds completely

matter-of-fact when he talks about

firearms and death, and with reason.

He has been in the military hardware

business for years, and he has either

heard or produced or both the

thunking watermelon sound many

times in Latin America and South-

east Asia, in the U.S. armed forces

M-11 submachine gun to Maj. Sedek

---

## Page 23

, :.

rectly to the U.S. government, which

forces; and, occasionally, his personal

poses are almost as varied as the

distributes it to its own forces that

services.

These

services

preseny

weapons themselves: from mowing

need silent or exotic weapons. The

WerBell at his most shadowy. Serving

down a line of combat troops to si-

balance is sold to friendly govern-

as a combatant in the armed forces of

lently picking off a lone V.C. to cut-

ments, either directly or through the

a foreign nation is against U.S. law,

ting short a would-be assassin to turn-

good

offices of the "independent

and WerBell is understandably reluc-

ing the tables on the bad guys by as-

group." He says he does not sell to in-

tant to admit having done so. He de-

sassinating them.

dividuals, not even if they're certified

scribes himself in such terms as "par-

The headquarters for this work, the

anti-Communists.

amilitary"

and "adviser,"

but ac-

former Dobbs estate, is on Highway

WerBell takes pains to point out

quaintances suspect he has been in

360 just outside of Powder Springs in

that he is no ordinary arms broker.

the thick of the fighting a number of

a remote section of Cobb County. Ac-

That is, he is not one of those shad-

times. He may even have zapped an

owy figures who sell weapons to both

insurgent or two.

tually, corporate headquarters is in.

Washington, D.C, ina firm called

sides at exorbitant prices or who take

For one thing,

he loves

a fight.

Environmentai Industriss, Incia

possession of contraband shipments

"Mitch is fraid of nothing," says a

neat euphemism for a company dedi-

on the high seas. "We do represent

long-time Atlanta friend. "I remem-

cated to killing people. Environmental

certain producers other than our-

ber he used to get into fights in bars.

Industries, WerBell says, is bank-

selves, and we can get a tank or a de-

One time he got into a hassle at the

rolled by

some of the East's most

stroyer or an airplane for customers

railroad station. He was seeing some

prominent investment houses; he is its

who want them. But we've never been

friends off, after having a few drinks,

director of international operations..

in the surplus business, and we've

and he decided he didn't want the

He is also president pf a subsidiary

never supplied both sides. We've always

train to leave just then. He wound up

called Military Armaments Company.

adhered to a basic policy: There is only

getting arrested, and the list of

Inc., and because he is in_ Powde

one friend of the U.S. in a given area,

charges, resisting arrest and all that,

Springs, Military Armarents is there

and we deal only with that friend."

kept stressing "profanity' at the tag

,100. (Behind Environmental" Indus-

What does WerBell peddle? A

end of each charge. He was a wild

tries,

WerBell_ says,

third

range of firearms from machine guns

one, all right."

shadow, of which E.I. is a subsidiary"

to desk-sized cannons, from the

The WerBell of today still likes his

another tantalizing hint of the

meancst-looking weapons to innocent-

whiskey and savors a good round of

CIA.)

looking swagger sticks that fire a bul-

counter-insurgency, but the urge to

Military Armaments may well be a

let or even a small rocker; an array of

fight for the hell of it is waning. He is,

unique American enterprise. Nobody

techniques "systems," he calls them

after all, primarily a businessman, a

else, WerBell says, is in the business

- that will help an American soldier

designer, developer, and peddler of

of designing special purpose weapons

or a foreign army hold off insurgent special

purpose weapons. The pur- / continued on page 58

AUGUST: ATLETTA 19

---

## Page 24

15S

Contempora colors the fall fashion scene with beautiful subtlety, in grey

with beige. Costuming like this, designed by Belle Sounders for Abe Schrader,

will see you around the world. Textured wool knit, 165.00 al lord & Taylor,

Phipps Plaza, Peachtree Road between Wieuca and lenox Roads, Atlanta.

58 ATCAST: ATLUTTA

WerBell from page 49

on such a scale. A good deal of its de-

signing and manufacturing is done

under federal license. Silencers. for

example, are outlawed by the Na-

tional

Firearms Act,

along

with

sawed-off shotguns, submachine guns,

and other vestiges of Prohibition Era

gangland wars.

To manufacture his

suppressors, WerBell must pay a spe-

cial tar. of $500 a year, collected by

the U.S. Treasury Department. The

T-men also check periodically to see

that his awesome collection of fire-

arms-over 200 individual pieces-is

properly registered. Apparently the

market for suppressors is not very

large, because according to WerBell,

his firm is the only one authorized lo

manufacture them.

WerBell will not discuss the sales

or profits of Military Armaments ex-

cept to say that, after two years of ex-

tensive research and development (re-

sulting in "a tax loss of a half million

dollars"), the company is now doing

very well. It has about 12 employees,

including four machinists who work

under the direction of Gordog/In-

grat the mustached,

sport sint

wearing vice-president of Engineering

who has charge of the design opera-

tion. Ingram's name is on the Model

11 submachine gun that young Mitch

demonstrated for me on the firing

range. Ingram works in a well-

equipped machine shop-lab attached

to the main house on the estate, which

WerBell likes to call "the farm."

WerBell's office is next door to the

shop. Its walls are so loaded with

weapons, it is a-wonder they do not

collapse. There are knives and spear

guns and pistols and rifles and ma-

chine guns, dozens and dozens oi

them, some purchased, some won in

combat, some presented by the appre-

ciative recipients of WerBell's

counter-insurgency techniques.

WerBell,

who has a sense of

humor, calls his enterprise a "cottage

industry" and likens himself to "a

country doctor. . . . I can fall out of

the living area upstairs right down to

the office." Upstairs is the domain of

his German-born wife Hildegard, a

pleasant, gray-haired woman who has

borne WerBell six children and put

up with his rather unusual way of life.

(When he left for the Far East in

1968, he said he'd be gone for a year

or more, and he was.) WerBell's only

upstairs

sanctuary

is the

"arms

room," a small room containing

wide assortment of weapons, some

---

## Page 25

LUGEND

Lugene is a boutique for eye fashion...

Atter a few days your physician's prescription is ac-

curately transposed into fine and attractive looking eve

wear. Sunglasses, cyeglasses or tunglasses are designed

and made in our own shop by duplicating carefully your

orvnlenses... in Palm Beach, New York and now Atlanta,

Lugene is a guild optician.

Phipps Plaza

3500 Peachtree Road

10 t0 6 and Thursday nights/ Our telephone is 261-2670

Traveled with any

topbrass

lately?

If not, shouldn't you start

now? That tinny stuff some

luggage makers use for

hardware can hurt your

image. And it won't stand

up to stress in the long run,

the way top brass does. You

see, proper hardware-

locks, rivets, buckles, studs

-should be made of solid forged brass. Never inferior metals

plated to look like brass. At Mark Cross, when we plate brass,

we use only gold-as we've done for over a century. We believe

you should travel first class, no matter what your ticket reads.

MARKCROSS/ The place for luggage

New: York/San Francisco/Beverly Hills/ Atlanta/Detroit/Bal Harbour, Fla. |

them valuable antiques. There is ?

Niongolian beheading sword, a pair of

1,000-ycar-old Japanese short swords

with laminated sicel blades,

and a

Chinesc-inade Mauser carbine "worth

from three to five thousand dollars."

Mitchell WerBell is a short, wiry

man of 52, quick with a quip and

quite sensible until he begins talking

about Communism or other social is-

sues. Tie has the faie and biasing ef is

Prussian officer, an image he culti-

vated by wearing a mustache and oc-

casionally a monocle. (Actually, some

people think he looks like comedian

Jerry Colonna with his musiache, a

comparison he definitely would not

tind flattering. No matter. Both mus-

tache and inonocle are gone now, lost

to his effort to promote a "lower pro-

file" for himself.) He often dresses

around the office in military clothing

of indeterminate origin, and he en-

bellishes the image by talking

slightly clipped sentences peppered.

with military phrases. There is noth-

ing phony in this. WerBell has a

strong attachment to weapons and to

warfare, and he has been around

them so long that the ideas and styles

they foster are an ingrained part of

his personality.

He comes by both his militarism

and his anti-Communism honestly.

His father was an officer in the Rus-

sian Imperial army, even though he

was born in the United States. "It was

a tricky situation," says Mitch. "He

was a citizen of both the U.S. and

Russia. In those days you could do

that." The elder WerBell fought

against the Bolsheviks, but before the'

collapse of the czarist regime he

wisely secured an appointment as liai-

son officer between the Russian and

American forces-stationed in

the

U.S. He lived in this country for the

rest of his life, putting his early medi-

cal training to use in cancer research

while living the good life. "My father

was a man of means," Mitch says. "He

traveled a lot, did a lot of big game

hunting, things like that."

Father came by that honestly too.

For generations, the WerBells have

been men of mcans. Mitch traces the

family to 13th-century France, where

the name was spelled "Vertbelle." At

least one branch of the family emi-

grated to Russia, where the French

name became Russianized, with the

final "e" dropped

and

they"

changed to "W." It is impossible 1o

know just how strongly Mitch was in-(5)

fluenced by his father's battle against

---

## Page 26

the Joishcains, but certainly the influ-

• ence

was considerable;

the White

Russiars and thoir descendants have

long been among the uncompromising

anti-Communists.

Another legacy fron father is

Mitch's barcly disguised aristocratic

sympathies. He has been quoted as

saying, "Communism is a substitution

of a peasant dictatorship over the ar-

istocrary prefer the aristocracy.

He scoffs at such statements as "] kid

about being a constitutional monarch-

ist, bus only if I'm the monarch", yet

it is without question an clitist. Nol

surprisingly, his elite is comprised of

superpatriois and military men, who

would be given powerful roles in any

nation's affairs.

Mitchell iVerBell was born in

Pennsylvania, shortly after his Rus-

sian-American father and his

Scottish-bern mother arrived in the

U.S. at the end of World War I. His

parents traveled a good deal, here and

abroad, and Mitch traveled

with

them, picking up his education as he

went. He got a degree in journalism

from the University of Pennsylvania

in World War Il, he joined the OSS, a

sort of Cloal-and-dagger Green Beret

operation. He served with an OSS

unit behind Japanese lines in China.

rising to the rank of captain and ac-

quiring a taste for guerilla-type war-

fare he would never lose.

WerBell came to Atlanta shortly

after the war and went to work for

Rich's advertising department. It was

a small department in those days, and

WerBell proved himself a capable ad

man. Soon he was head of the depart-

ment, and soon after that he went on

his own. He formed Mitchell WerBell

Advertising, which later became

WerBell, Seklemian and North. Vet-

eran Atlanta advertising men recall

WerBell as being aggressive and im-

aginative. a good addition to the busi-

ness. "He did some first-rate work,"

says one, "and he handled some big

accounts, Barwick Mills, for in-

stance."

In the mid-fifties, WerBell pulled

out of his agency (there are dark sto-

ries about how he was done in by as-

sociates), and the agency collapsed

not long afterward. He then formed

his own

public relations firm, and

here the story line gets fuzzy be-

cause it begins to involve interna-

tional military intrigue. "T'd already

been drifting into international p.r..

WerBell says, "using my family back-

ground. I had temendous contacts in

I. Miller. The shoe with the glorious past

now leads you to an exciting fashion future.

at the I. Miller Salon, Phipps Plaza,

3500 Peachtrce Rd., N. E., Atlanta.

'ALCUST: ATLASTA

63

Г.

---

## Page 27

11-00890

-

SUBJECT

FILE NO.

CHARGE TO

123%

RECHARGE TO

DATE CHARGED OR RECHARGED

ROOM NO.

COMPONENT

EXTENSION

REMARKS

ToBy 744 481-1015.008

CHARGE-OUT SLIP

(7)

---

## Page 28

Bland Terry

THE SOUTHS FINEST

COLLECTION OF

IMPOFTED SHOES FOR MEN

BY BALLY

OF SWITZERLAND

A BOOT OF A SHOE, ankie-bone high

and soft to the touch as o fine wallet.

Cleverly molded into shope with sleek

overlaps, it crodles your loot in solid

comfort, gentled by the hand of o

Bolly crofismon. Genuine colf in

ontique brown or mellow black, 47.00.

NOW OPEN MON. & THURS. NIGHT UNTIL 9

phipps plAzA 3500 PEACHTREE ROAD. N, E -

Invite

a real Prince!

When the right one comes along, the

right one is Gittings, America's

leading bridal photographer, to capture

all the excitement, ever so elegantly..

When Gittings does your formal

wedding colour portrait, engagement

and wedding glossies for the newspapers are complimentary.

And, of course you'll want Gittings colour candids;

complete coverage of your wedding and reception to re-live

happily ever afterward.

An idea of price: Formal wedding colour portraits start

as low as two for $85. Exciting colour candids begin

at just $7. each with duplicates even less.

Send your name, address and home address for free

bridal portrait brochure with full details: Write Gittings

Bridal Secretary/Phipps Plaza, Atlanta, Georgia 30305

Studios in Houston, Atlanta, Phoenix, and in

Neiman-Marcus/Dallas-Ft. Worth.

Bridal Portraits/ Candids

Gittings

Europe, and I moved into the Far

East, too." How much of this moving

in was military, WerBell won't say,

but his business took on more and

more of what he calls a "geopolitical"

flavor. Before long, he was dabbling

in Latin American dictatorships. "Be-

fore Fidel took over in Cuba, we were

working closely with Batista." He

adds with a grin, "Our function was

is hoop Batista in power, although the

U.S. government was looking favora-

bly on Fidel at that point."

From all this, even WerBell doesn't

know exactly how, came a passionate

concern about Communism.

"I de-

cided to devote whatever time I could

to anti-Communist activities,"

he

says. "At first it was sort of a hobby,

but shen it became my main drive in

life. What I'm doing now" here he

gestures at the arsenal of his office

walls-"affords me a damned good

living. But the living is not why I do

In 1948, while anti-Communism

was still a hobby, albeit a paying

hobby, WerBell purchased the Dobbs

estate. He installed rudimentary de-

sign facilities and began experiment-

ing

with

weapons

of

counter-

insurgency, weapons he believed had

the best chance of preventing Coni-

munist takeovers in the small, under-

devcloped nations of Asia and Latin

America. "I realized that in counter-

insurgency, the primary problem was

a lack of depth im weaponry. People

say, Win the hearts of the enemy,

and you'll win the fight.' That's a lot

of bull. The best way to get their

hearts,

if they're the enemy, is to

shoot 'em and cut the hearts out."

While he experimented with weap

ons quietly, to avoid problems with

the federals WerBell proceeded with

his personal brand of geopolitics. He

made himsel

available to anti-

Communist regimes that wanted help

in fighting off one band of insurgents

or another. In the process, he became

friendly

with a number of Latin

America's political strongmen. They

were delighted to discover a norte-

americano who felt as they did about

the need for stable, anti-Communist

regimes, especially their regimes, and

who had both the savvy and the guts

to help preserve them. WerBell, oper-

ating out of Powder Springs, fashioned

a nice little career for himself as a

paramilitary adviser. He seldom

passed an opportunity to plug the

weapons he was developing back

home in the shop. His first major par-

---

## Page 29

14-00000

FREE.

Tha

Gingiss

Gulde for

Greems.

No one has been up

the altar more times

than we lave.

The Gingiss Guide for Grooms is a

handy 48-page booklei thet tells

what to do ebout getting married..

Questions lile what to wear.

And when. Who marches with

whom. Who gives what to whom.

All soris of important matters-

and some trivial ones.

Any young couple getling

married should have it.

It's Free.

Stop in and see us and check

out the latest in men's formalsvear.

Everything from double-breasted

Edwardian to morning costs with

striped pants.

We make sure it will fit perfectly.

No one has more experience in

the sales and sental of men's

formalwear than we do.

After all, we've been geting

ready for your big day since we

started in 1934.

A.

gingiss

Men's Formalwear Center

Phipps Plaza, Aflanta

261-0743

3320 Memorial Dr. N E

Decatur

284-8366

66

ACCLIT: ATLANTA

amilitary operation was in the Domin

ican Republic, during the 1965 revolt.

He was, of course, on the side of the

goverminent, which was fending off al-

legedly Communist insurgents; the

United States was on its side 100.

WerBell wound up in the midsi of the

righting. He was the second Domini-

can governincht man to reach the

Ozama River, scenc of the major bat-

tle. Ellsworth Bunker, then U.S. an-

bassador

to ine Organization

oi

Americin States, becainc highly excr-

cised over W'erBell's activities and his

hawkish views on the conflict (W'er-

Bell opposed a cessation of hostilities

and establishment of a coalition gov-

ernment). Bunker considered trying

to loss WerBell out of the DomRep,

as old Caribbcan hands cali the coun-

• try: but nothing came of it. WerBcli's

"independent

group"-CIA, Texas

millionaires of whatever-saw to that.-

WerBell was already active in the

anti-Castro

movement,

and

he

brought to it a sense of dash and dis-

cipline that the raglag,

bickering

bunch of Cuban exiles had seldom

seen. Perhaps his majer anti-Castro

exploit was a speedboat foray into

Camarioca, on Cuba's southern coast.

The mission was to drop a swimmer,

apparently & spy, offshore, fand to

pick up the family of an exile leader.

The boat, flying the Confederate flag

on the radio antenna, foundered in

high seas, and the raiding party was

captured. The Cubans, the story goes,

did not know what to make of the

brash WerBell, and he and his pals

wound up stealing a Castro boat and

spiriting some 16 anti-Castroites out

of the country before they themselves

returned to the U.S.

In the late '60s, WerBell turned his

attention to Southeast Asia. He is, of

course, a superhawk on Vietnam, and

would be happy if the U.S. were also

fighting Communism in all its neigh-

boring countries. He was in Thailand.

"working closely with the Supreme

Command," for months, promoting

the sales of his weapons and systems.

"I showed them things like surveil-

lance equipment and night vision

equipment, stuff that lets you surprise

the bell out of the bastards" (the

enemy). Did he do any fighting him-

self? WerBell chuckles.

"I ain't sup-

posed to be shooting the stuff, just

demonstrating how to shoot it."

Three years ago, WerBell's weap-

ons

business

became

promising

enough for him to go into it fuil time.

He organized a firm called Sionics

SCARLET O HARA

.. a real doll

one of many from the Madame

Alexander Doll Collection ...

Prices start at $5.95

IMPORTED.

Unusual gifts and loys

from all over the world

Phipps Plaza. 3500 Peachtree Rd., N E

Sherle Wagner sculpts a seashell basin

and stand, carved from a single, solid

piece of onyx,

$995.

Matching fixtures

of onyx and

24 kt. gold plate, from

$195. Available in eleven other rare

stones. Builders and decorators inquiries

welcome.

Consteris

PAlpos PiaE8, 9500 Prachtree Ra., N.E., 261-9755

Algo !008:0ó al Bal Marbour Shock, Del Ma:z0ur, Fla.

/ 50

---

## Page 30

fior" Studies in Operational Negation

of Insurgency and Counter-

Subversion"), lied in with Environ-

menial Industries, and began in carn-

est 10 develop a line of military hard-

ware. Sons Miich IV and Gcoff be-

came integral parts of the firm. Mitch

I was already a bona fide counter-

irsurgent. As a 15-ycar-old, he had

spent considerable time with Dad in

the Dominican Repubiic, specializing

in underwater probing for safe land-

ing sites. Gcoff, two years jounger,

barely missed out on a Cuban foray;

his father took him to Miami a few

years ago, but the plans fell through.

Under the company reorganization

that took place in May, both of the

boys have responsible positions:

Mitch IV, now 21, is a vice-president

in charge of sales for Military Arma-

ments, the successor to Sionics; Geoff,

18, is assistant director of Interna-

tional Operations. Each of them also

attends college-Mitch IV, Georgia

State University, and Geoff, Kenne-

saw Junior College-and they drive

off to night classes after a day in the

lab or on the firing range. (WerBell

suspects one of Geoff's teachers is a

Communist because he has been say-

ing soine favorable things about stu-

dent protesters. Generally, however,

the old man is pleased that the boys

are getting a college education. It will

better equip them for the job of run-

ning Military Armaments later.)

One day I sat in WerBell's office as

Geoff displayed a number of Military

Armaments®

most unusual weapons.

(Mitch IV was in Washington, dis-

playing some of the same to Pentagon

officials.) Geoff brought out

"the

Stinger,'

" a cigar-shaped tube three

inches long, weighing two-and-one-

half ounces, that fires a .22 cartridge.

Nothing

visible suggests a gun, and

the bullet, on its way out, dislodges a

thin plug that disguises the hole at the

end of the tiny barrel. WerBell com-

mends the Stinger to secret agents

who get caught with the goods and

must take "the last resort," that is,

shoot themselves.

In the same exotic category is the

swagger stick, bound in leather, with

silver studs. By pushing between two

studs, one can fire a .22 or, with a

special model, a small rocket. The

bodyguard of Dominican strongman

General. Antonio Imbert used the

rocket model to blast would-be assas-

sins a few years ago. Then there is a

small, brass-fitted cannon. It makes a

handsome knicknack for a soldier-

anothen

joy of

southern

living

OLD NICKOPY

HOUSE

RESTAURANTS

Bare or Borks sod Rect

Sirles.

Ris and click Ra. 4

Where's a Locaton New You

ATLANTI GHATTANGNGI

---

## Page 31

14-00000

Meet clandining

imra since

Stiryoid-0n-4053

Two 18-hole golf courses (1

championship, 1 lighted execu.

tive) • gourmet vinine and din.

ing • luxurious guest rooms

meeting ferilities • Scottish b?.

ronial atmosphere • open year

"round • near airports and artc-

rial expressways. Write for bro.

chure: Ralph McEntyre, General

Manager, Miami Lakes Inn &

Country Club, Palmetio Express-

way & N.W. 154th Street, J

Miami Lakes, Florida

33014. Or call Miami

(305) 821-1150.

Miami Lakes lisa

& COUNTRY CLUB

o more St

Au01.01

politician's desk. li fires, with

O1

WerBell, in fact, stays as aloo! fron,

simple finger novement, a bullet that

the local community as possible. His

will quiet an unruly visitor. More tri-

house is so well-stocked, it is practi-

ditionally military is WerBell's "spe-

cally self-sufficient save ter occasional

cial long-range linoclier outer,"

trips to the grocery and liquor siores.

redesigned Remington ninc-millimeter

("The only disadvantage of living Out

rifle that "will plug 'em in the eye it

here," he says, "is that you have iu

200 meters."

drisc into Fulton County lo get wiis-

The bull of WerBell's business is

Xey.") There has been, from time io

sound suppressors and Ingram

time, anti-WerBell feeling in Powder

Model submachine guns. Suppressors

Springs. Hildegard WerBell helps

can be used on large as weii as smali

hoid it down by regular attendance al

scapons, and in fact have been used

the McEachern Memorial Methodist

cfiectively on the wicked-looking Vul-

Church. As for the resi of the fealing.

can machine guns monied on Ameri-

WerBell declares,

"The hell with it.

can helicopters in Victnam. The Als-

Who cares? I tell 'em I'm prepared to

tralian Army Journal ran a story call-

purchase their property if they don't

ing the Sionics suppressor "superior

like the area."

to anything previously usad...

WerBell also sees little of his old

it) it is now possible for the

advertising buddies around Atlanta.

sniper to fire frons relatively short

"We jus: don't have much in common

ranges, especially when using sub any more," he explains, in a resound-

sonic projectiles."

ing understatement. He does not suf-

WerBell is so enthusiastic about the

fer froin loneliness, however. There is

Model submachine

a steady stream of visitors and cus-

(there are two models, taking differ-

tomers, foreigners as well as Ameri-

ent sized cartridges) that he predicis

they will eventually make "obsolcte

cans.

A few weeks ago WerBell's

son-in-law, an Air Force lieutenant

colonel, flew in from Ohio, mainly to

world." The U.S. Army, he says, is

see what was new around the shop; he

now looking carefully at the Ingram

hadn't been by in several months. he

models with an eye toward making

said,

"and things

change awfully

them standard equipment for Ameri-

quickly around here." The day I was

can soldiers; if that happens, the li-. there,

the colonel and WerBell

success of Military Arma-

swapped ideas on ridding the State

ments will presumably be assured.

Department of no-win policy malers

According to data published by the

and on bringing the enemy

to its

firm, the. Ingram models are shorter,

knees, or its grave, in Vietnam.

lighter and capable of delivering more

WerBell recalls with relish one par-

firepower than anything on the mar-

ticular visitor. He came from the State

ket. They are also, WerBell says,

Department a few years back, and ac-

ideal for secret agents; they fit snugly

cording to WerBell, he said, "The

into a dispatch case (Military Arma-

functions of the foreign policies of the

ments makes the case, too), complete

United States are the business of the

with suppressor and six magazines.

State Department in Washington, not

Does WerBell feel a twinge of con-

of Mitchell WerBell in

Powder

science about providing the world

Springs, Georgia." WerBell's reply?

with such deadly and efficient weap-

"You can't print it. It was all in An-

ons? No. "I see no reason to be con- glo-Saxon words." But that was the

cerned," he says.

"We're supplying a

old, swashbuckling

WerBell.

The

certain product that is unfortunately a new, low profile WerBell says with a

part of the civilized world. As long as

grin, "My present policy is that I

people exis!, there's going to be an

agree with that theory completely. Pe-

arms business. I don't see much dif-

ference between our supplying arms

riod."

If actions to the contrary speak too

to combatants and a surgical supply

loudly, they, like WerBell's weapons,

house supplying gauze to bind up the

can always be suppressed by the man

wounds inflicted." There is his anti-

himself. Meanwhile, Mitch and his

Communist argument, too. WerBell is

"independent group" march on.

fighting the Communist menace; it is

a fight that must be won and weapons

are needed to win it.

Contrary

to cynical opinion,

Powder Springs was not named in

honor of WerBell and his enterprise.

---

