# 104-10003-10119

## Page 1

104-10003-10119

ter..

TO

SENDER WILL, CHECK CLAS--JATION TOP AND BOTTOM

2 UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

CE Rocca

AIGIDOOLOY

2

3

5

Retura

to

6

our.

R

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Cite

Catterer

CIA

maine

rent

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO

2D1P

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM NO. 237

Use previous editions

7-61

DATE

36Ma

SECKEP

(40)

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961 0--587282

---

## Page 2

13

38

B

UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

CON

SE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD

SHEET

ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECTE (Optional E

i FROM:

EXTENSION

RIAN

TO: (Officer designation, room number,

building)

• DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO

XAA2-22769

DATE

25 May

164

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whöm

o whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RA

and

2C

29

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Document Numbor 7107=308

for FOlA Review on JUN 1976

10

2

15

FORM

3-62

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

ANUFACT

еб.:

ABSTRACT

CT/RA

INDEX

201-289248

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DD/P 4-7676

PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION

ON THE

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

200 Maryland Ave. N.E.

Washington, D.C. 20002

Telephone 543-1400

EARL WARREN,

Chairman

J. LEE RANKEral Counsel

RICHARD B. RUSSELL

JOHN SHERMAN COOPER

HALE BOGGS

XAAZ-22769

GERALD R. FORD

JOHN J. McCLOY

ALLEN W. DULLES

MAY 2 5 1964

° Request from Warren

Commission for additional

into on

Oswald's obtaining at USSR Tourist visages

Ne. Richara Helme in Helsinhi

Mr. Richard Helms

safer

Deputy Director for Plans

Central Intelligence Agency

5-27-64

Washington, D. C. 20505

14:30

Dear Mr. Helms:

In connection with some discussions recently had with

Mr. Abram Chayes, The Legal Adviser to the Department of State,

Mr. Chayes has informed the Commission that members of the Depart-

ment of State have informed him that at the time Lee Harvey Oswald

received his tourist visa to enter Russia from the Soviet Embassy

at Helsinki, Finland, at least a week ordinarily transpired between

the time when the tourist applied for his visa and the issuance of

that visa. If this is true, then the fact that lee Harvey Oswald

obtained his tourist visa in from two to four days may have some

significance.

From material previously supplied to the Commission by

the Central Intelligence Agency we have concluded that Oswald

arrived in Helsinki on an airplane from London on October 10, 1959,

that his Soviet tourist visa was issued from the Embassy in Helsinki

on October 14, and that he departed for Moscow on a train on

October 15. Assuming that he applied for a visa the same day he

arrived in Helsinki, four days were required for him to obtain the

visa. If, however, his airplane arrived too late on October 10

for him to reach the Soviet Embassy and apply for a visa that same

day, he probably would have had to wait until Monday, October 12

to tender his application. We have no information on the probable

time of arrival of his flight or the closing time of the Embassy,

so we cannot estimate whether he had sufficient time to get from

the airport to the Embassy before it closed on Saturday, October 10.

Document Numbor 707-308 A

for FOlA Review on JUN 1976

THE CIA. HAS NO OBJECI!::

* TO THE DECLASSIFICATION J

THIS DOCUMENT

CS COPY

201-289248

25 May 1964

---

## Page 4

13-00000

:. Ao

2

We have already asked that the Department of State

look further into this matter and give us its best opinion

regarding the average time reguired to obtain a Soviet tourist

visa from Helsinki. in October 1959 and also the regularity or

lack of regularity evidenced by the Soviet Embassy in this

regard. We are of course interested in the question of the

regularity of procedures because we want to know whether, 1f

Oswald did in fact obtain his visa more quickly than was normal,

his doing so was significant, or whether it may have been only

the result of a not-infreguent deviation from normal procedures.

¡ If it is still possible at this time to determine the

approximate hour on October 10, 1959 when Oswald's flight arrived

in Helsinki and the hour when the Soviet Embassy closed, this

information, plus an estimate of the time required to travel from

the airport to the Embassy by commercial transportation, would

also be of assistance to the Commission.

Sincerely,

J. Lee Rankin

General Counsel

IS COPY

201-289248

---

