# 104-10431-10077

## Page 1

104-10431-10077

CLASSiFiED MESSAGE

1 SECRET

NE

LACIRRIB

ROUTING

VE5

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM. •

ACTION!

INFO

C/SR 5

•FINO AND COPY SLOTTUD 0Ü3O 5 DEC/LMG)

61, D/DEL, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/NE 3, VR

Tom

PRIORITY

5 DEC 63 IN 7 39 32

5257

SECRET 1507952

PRIORITY DER INFO!

I BY POUCH) CITE

КАРОК REDWOOD PADBAYON

1. ON 3 DEG LEONID PO BOGDANOV, THIRD SECRETARY SOVIET EMBÄSSY

MADE SPECIAL VISIT TO PADBAYON/I. PURPOSE WAS TO DIRECT PADBAYONA!

TO SEND TELEGRAMS TO PRESIDENT JOHNSON, CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN AND

ATTORNEY GENTAL, ROBERT KENNEDY DEMANDING A FULL PROBE INTO

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. SEPARATE TELEGRAMS WERE TO BE

1

SENT IN NAMES OF THREE OR FOUR ORGANIZATIONS TO WHICH PADBAYON/ I

• AFFILIATED.: BOGDANOV SUGGESTED INDIAN ASSOCIATION OF DEMOCRATIC

LAWYERS, FEDERATION OF INDIAN YOUTH AND INDIAN FEDERATION OF UNITED

NATIONS ORGANIZATION. PADBAYON I SUGGESTED ADDING

/ DELHI. LIONS CLUB TO LIST, WHICH BOGDANOV APPROVED. PAGDANOV SAID

HE ACTING UN ER INSTRUCTIONS FROM BUSCOW AND THAT HE WOULD PAY COST

OF TELEGRANS. HE WANTS THEM SENT SY 5 DEC. FOREGOING RECEIVED 41

DEC FROM PADIAMONA?:.

2o: BOGDAN iS CDENTIFIED RIS, TWO YEAR FRIENDSHIP BETWEEN

PADBAYON/1 ANG BOGDANOV RECENTIY APVCARS. TO BE DEVELOPING INTO

005d0063

Document Number 327-708

for FOlA Review on*

MAY 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON2 1 MAY 1976

E IMPEROL BY 012,208

5DEC63

GROUP &

Included from quiomati

demaginding and

destanifesottan

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

800 101Y KONIUM DIS.

WH. Jase

SAGE

IN 163932

- PAGE -2

AGENT-CACC OF/AGEN RELATIONSHOP CONCO SEEM

• 3o POSSIBLY MIS PART OF WORLDI

1- WIDE CAMPAIGN ORGANIZED BY RISH

IF THIS PROVE? COMMECT, IT OFFERS OPPORTUNITY TO

IDENTIFY LOCAL RIS

COLLABORATORS AND PERHAPS WORK BACK TO SOVIET CASE OFFICERS

HQS MAY WISH USE THIS POSSIBILITY BY ATTEMPTING. DETERMINE WHO RESPONSTBL

FOR SENDING TELEGRAMS, SUCH AS DESCRIBED PARA QNE; FROM OTHER COUNTRIT

A CURIOUSLY, BOGDANOV UNAWARE OF INVESTIGATING COMMISSION HEADED

BY WARREN. THOUGHT THAT DALLAS POLICE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT "CASE CLOSED"

WAS FINAL. REGARDLESS OF BOGDANOV THINKING, MAIN POINT IS HE ACTING

UNDÈR INSTRUCTIONS FROM MOSCOW.

5. IF FEASIBLE REQUEST HQS SEND NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF INDIANS

SENDING TELEGRAMS DEMANDING PROBE:

NO INDEX.

---

