# 104-10110-10292

## Page 1

104-10110-10292

IINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONL

INTERVIEW REPORT

56840

NAME OF SUBJECT

BUSTOS-VIDELA, Charlotte

REASON FOR

INTERVIEW

ILE NO

007 6567

Retirement: CIA

30 Dec 1977

TEMPORARY ADDRESS

PERMANENT ADDRESS

po Box 3030

FALLS CHURCH. VA. 22043

PRESENT TITLE, GRADE AND DIVISION

LA

GS-14

DETAILS OF CONTEMPLATED FOREIGN TRAVEL

Europe

(dates nor form)

BADGES. PASSES; KEYS AND CREDENTIALS

Home Tee Phone

281-2258

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do No! Reproduce

CLEARANCES '

Commo - 51

99

COVER

99

(etirement under Cover 1!

ALL PHASES OF SECURITY WITH RESPECT TO SUBJECT'S RESPONSIBILITY TO THE OREANIZATION WERE FULLY AND COM-

PLETELY DISCUSSED.

2. SUBJECT WAS ADVISED THAT ALL INFORMATION RECEIVED AND COMPILED BY THE AGENCY IS OFFICIAL DATA.

AND IS THE

PROPERTY OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT AND THAT NO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE HAS ANY PROPERTY RIGHT IN SUCH... INFORMATION.

.....A"

3. SUBJECT WAS INFORMED THAT THE SECURITY REGULATIONS AND THE SECRECY AGREEMENT APPLY.

NOT. ONLY TO INTELLI

GENCE

INFORMATION: BUT, ALSO TO ANY STATISTICAL, ORGANIZATIONAL. OPERATIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION OF WHICH

HE IS COGNIZANT.

4. SUBJECT WAS INSTRUCTED THAT INFORMATION PERTAINING TO

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS. SOURCES

AND METHODS PECULIAR

TO THE AGENCY MAY NOT BE DIVULGED TO PERSONS IN OTHER GOVERNNENT AGENCIES, EVEN THOUGH SUCH PERSONS ARE FULLY SECU

RITY CLEARED WITHIN THEIR OWN DEPARTMENTS.

SUBJECT WAS INFORMED THAT SHOULD ANY QUESTION ARISE ON SECURITY MATTERS HE MAY COMMUNICATE WITH THE AGENCY

FOR ADVICE AND GUIDANCE.

seemed to NEVA: Cures i fificeice, or austoations and knouledge of any incidente or activition of persons which

03

DATE

is/L

SIGNATURE OF INTERVIEWER

30 Dicember 1977

G07M 1099 EBETORE OUS

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

(11-96)

3IBR

---

