104-10186-10195}

“tly

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

mmararmet qowlalns Information efecting te Sataceal Defer of the Toland Mates witnin tne meaning of the Expionary Lawn, Te
——

“Ta
ME CSC Ane TH and THO the Uransmumee st fervisuicn of which In ang manrer te an unsut we protibteed bye

; SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEE ‘

CouNnTRYCuds REPORT NO. CSCI~316/00618-65
suaect fnu PENA (alias “Lorenzo") DATE O1STR. 10 February 1965

<cuF HID cw NO. PAGES 1

Re
ackegrounss SSE Only gerenences . - €S-311/00115-64
Bao rick RepTaauoe (page 9)
OATE OF D 8 July 1964)
ro, 1864
mace atashington, D.C.
oaTe cq. January 1965 FIND REPORT NO.

Teed iS UNEVALUATED IGSEATON SOURCE ORADINGS AGE DERNITIVE APPRAIEAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTARNE

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency,

Fuu PENA, alias “Lorenzo,” in 1962, was head of the MA
(intelligence) Departazent of the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) which was later
divided into three separate departments: Centros Legales
(Legal Centers - MS); [legal (Illegal); and Liberacion Nacional
(National Liberation - LN). He was later a trainee in the LN,
Guatemalan Bureau. In early 1963 he was sent to Mexico for
Several months. Upon has return he spent some time at the DGI
Readquarters, not in an operational section, and was later
transferred to the Ministry of Interior,1!

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
oa fru PENA.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

Ta Tae Trea TR
“twacast CINCSO F TEN.

= Toll dawiynrs bdwoted by "2"

/SAZEOS 1. - cca Tt ee
HLeSa Most WEL Si Chsga Rr
ar aa +L BASH
:

sve s ;BiD-a—2f im
i, MALE. ANON
relay Sas (1), WE 1 roy clay “aia 1 aa

19-5-4

ron xo
