# 104-10428-10191

## Page 1

1104-10428-10791

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ES CONFIDENTIALS

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEETS

John Cooke, National Enquirer

FROM:

Chief

DCD

912 Keÿ Bldg:

TO:: (Officer designation,./oom:

building)

NO.

PATE

DATE S

RECEIVED. FORWARDED

22653

OFFICERS

INITIALS"

18 April 1977

COMMENTS" (Number cochi

to. whom

Drew line across column

SA/DO/O

Attno Mr.

Fendig

2D- 0109 Hqs:

SECRET

2.

JackSon: R. Horton

J. Wilher

Slep

W

12.

13:

15

FORM 610 USE PREOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL B

INTERMAR

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONSETTTIAL

DAL-33-77

7 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: John Cooke, National Enquirer

Mr. John Cooke, a reporter for the National Enquirer,

called the office this morning and talked to J. W. Moore.

He said that he wanted to find out some information about

our personnel files,

specifically if we maintain a 201 file

similar to

He was referred to Dennis Berend

after which he mentioned that he had been talking

de Morenshildt and that she had mentioned she and her husband

were acquainted wich the CIA chief in Dallas, Jim Moore.

He

wanted to confirm this and discuss the relationship. He was

Informed that any information on this subject that Moore

possessed would only be discussed with the properly consti

tuted authorities of the U.S. Government.

J. WALTON MOORE

JWMoore/sIm

DCD/Information Control Branch

E2 IMPDET CL. BY 003820

CONFIDENTIAL

WARNING 1:0707.231*3171

7 0:73W95903

SOURCES AND MSTIODS. INVOLVED

---

