# 104-10005-10286

## Page 1

104-10005-10286

UNCLASSIFIED

ERNAL

UsE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM CERA/R'S

ZB23

TO:

(Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

IP/AN.

5

3.

4.

5.

IP/EDI

7.

8.

IIP/Fites

ath: Doris Millu

10

EXTENSION

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO

316 - 0144664

DATE

6 0л 64.

MMENTS (Number each comment to show :from wh

to whom.

aw a line across colümn after each commer

JUNE T075

attacked to

881-289348

and indey on

X-ref as azuguate

Document Number 898-392

for FOlA Review on JUL 1976

12.

13.

14

15.

FORM

3-62 51

6610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CSCI 316/01446-64

6/10/67

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

Tee wipe

316-0144664

6 OCT 1964

MATE PIRO. IT

ABSTRACT 20HP003

"PREPARE FOR FINE

12 72 3.41

WINE MY NA

150 43)

FA FENG

И Шр61

FOI, ZIGITTE COS?

Document Number.

898-392

for FOlA Review on

JUL 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

PELT

SUBJECT:

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal Security

Russia - Cuba

1.

Reference in made to your memorandum of August 14,

1964, Subject: as above, your file number (S) 105-82555,

in which you requested that seven enclosed photographe be

shown to VIADUCT and certain questions be asked of him.

VIADUCT was interviewed on 9 Septenber 116 with

the following results ad commented on senor photos

Photograph no. I

sent By FBL

(1) Nikolay 851012V - Bource did not-rocogne

face and had never heard the name.

(2)

Annette (Anita) SETYAEVA, ZUGOFT, formerly known

as *citor Anette GOLDSITEYN (GOLDSTEIH) and

Annette Henkina (KEENKINA): Source recognized

her immediatoly by face, elving the nano Annette

hit formerly Annette cordairh.

he, canld

not recall her miden nane but when offered to

name ZUCOl? he said this would be correct an it.

1s an Ossettian name and her father had been:

Ossettian and her nother a Canadian. Source's

additional information on this woman is provided

In paragraph & below.

(3)

Joseph ADAMOV:

Source recognized his photograph

Immediately and provided the name correctly,.

identifying hin as his long-time friend, previously

discussed in the British report referenced in your

menorandun.

07

gira

SECRET

RECORD COPY

^ G80UP 1

Excinded from anemaile

downgrading and

dectassification

6 Oct 64

201-28921

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET,

(4)

(5)

(6)

Inmbolle Bichi Source recognized her

haph trinediately and gave her name correctly.

She is the person discussed in the britieh

report.

Serged RIDIN: Source recognized his photograph

Immediately and gave his name as "AUDIt"and

HUDEHMAN OF NUDIMAN, the same man referred to 1n

the British report.

Source said be is a close

friend of Joe ADANOV's.

He is Jewish and was

originally from New York, but 15 now a Soviet

citizen, married to a lussian woman and father

of three or four children..

He works In the

Inglish language section of Radio Moscow.

bad formerly had a very small flat of one or

two rooms, with which he was very unbappy, but

Radio Moscow got him an attractive and larger

flat 1n a building on Peschanaya Street.

Lucy (01ga) PRAVDINA: Source recognized her

photograph at once as the woman who had given

him Inglish lessons in 1911 or 1915 when be was

briefly employed at ladio Moseo».

He believed

her name was Irina or sonething like that, and

she had previoualy spent possibly ten of 111teen

years la the united States with her husband who

bad been & TABS Man there. Source cente hosen

recall her last name (marriod name) but thought

1t began with a "K". When Source Iirst met her

she was a program director for Radio Moscow and

did some announcing.

He said she spoke excellent

English, was & food worker and well liked by her

colleagues.

He did not know the numes LUCh and

OLd PRADIA, and mas certain neithor vas bor

setual name.

source recognised theme as

Photograph no. 4: Source recognized mumber 1 as

the person identified in paragraph 3 (C) above; and recognized

Annette KHENKINA, Serged NUDIMAN, and Joe ADANOV. He did

not recognize Nikolai SERGEYEY 1n this photograph.

and (5) above.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

Photograph no. 6:

Source recognized number (2)

AS KHINKIN (firat name not recalled), the second busband

ol Annette COLDBNTKYN KHENKINA, and sumber (2) as Annette

herself. He knew that they had a son and antuned that the

child In the phito was that son, but he had never ween the

Source provided the same information on KHENKIN

previously included in HI-S Report Nunber 37, referred to

in your nemorandum. He added to this that the apartment.

building in the background of photograph number (3) 1e

the location of the apartment which KiRkIl was given after

he had written a letter to STALIN complaining of quarters

he was first given when he repatriated to the Soviet Union

in 1945 or 1046.

Photograph no. 7: Source recognized Annette

BankINd, but did not know any of the others in the photo.

When number (4), Marina, vas pointed out to him, he stated

that she was the right age to be Annette's daughter by her

first husband, GOLDSHTLIN. Source had seen her as a small

child, posalbly about five or s1x years of age, In 1945.

He has never seen her since, kn ew nothing more about her,

and could not identify her photograph.

Source commented

that he had never met GOLDSHTEYN, Annette's first husband,

but know that he was much older than she and he speculated

that the older man in this photograph might be boria

GOLDSETAIN.

Source gave the following additloul Information

on Borle COLDSITITI: He was sone kind of engineer technician;

He did not approre of Annette's

working

she worked with there and the general atmosphere of work.

Annette was already separated or divorced from COLDAITTTN

when Source first met her, sometine in 1914 or 1945.

While

Annette me still mrried

to GOLDSITTYN, she bed an affalI

with Joe ADALOV.

logarding lev or too Sirat, Source had sever

heard the name.

He was not arare that Annette KINKINA

had mrried for the third time, although he knew thet she

was divorced Iron KHINKIN and that he was interested in

marrying & ront tho was an editor in a publtahing house.

Bource had never heard of Lee Harvey OSWALD

prior to his defection, and had no infomation regarding

his participation in a Badio Moscow Interview in late

1959. he commented, however, that it vas not unusual to

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

conduct interviews of this sort, and Joe ADAMOV could

have susgested the taping of an interview.

It would

not necensarily follow that such a tape would be used for

an actual broadcast, an such decisions were not make by

the Intervioner lps by the program directors.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

JAMES ANGLETON

CSCI-316/01446-64

S. M. DOWNEY: SR/CI/KGBmbg

30 September 1964

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1

-C/CI

1 - CI/OPS/SS - dmy copy

17- CI/R&A - dmy copy

~ CI/CI - dmy copy

VI - C/SR/CI

1

= BI/FI (201-280, 248)

dmy cop- dmy copy

2 - SR/CI/KGB (chrono & comeback)

comeback to SR/CI/Research

after return.

SECRET

---

