# 104-10234-10055

## Page 1

104-10234-10055

-090

Lack,

FROM

CLASSIFILO PISSISE

27 SECRET

9Y6N6T6679

1:: 15

REPROQUATION FECHIBITES IS

ECRET 031716Z

PRIORITY DIR INFO PARI ROXE CITE MADA 2598: 5

18:

DESENS IT TER

KEYWAY PARUMEN AMWKIP

RES A DIR 81836

B PARI 9313

(*92226)

03F2 55 01 7 3094

C MADR 2982

72256

D ROME 4919, PARA 3 ( 9/293,

E OSHA 18,423, PARA 18

do RE REQUEST REF A.

2 WISH POINT OUT REF E SPELLED OUT PROBLEMS ENCOUSTERED TRYING MON

ITOR AMLASH 2, AMLASH S AND ARBIDDY 1, CONTACTS AÑD ACTIVITIES SPAIN AND

THEIR INVOLVEMENT ALASH 1 AND AMWHIP I. THESE ACIIVITIES CERIAINLY OF

INTEREST OVERALL PBRUMEN OPS AND RELATED. STATION ACTIVITIES, RECENTLY WE

REPORTED AMBIDDY L'S TRIP ROME PRESUMABLY TO SEE AMLASH 1 THIS CONFIRMA

BY REF D WHICH ALSO REPORTED AMWHIP I ROME AND IN CONTACT ASLASN 1.

TO FURTHER ADD COMPLEXITY OVERALL OPPS PICTURE AMLASH 2 AND 3

• INVOLVED WITH SOME STATION TARGETS. AMLASH 3 MAS BEEN REPORTED BY QUMALT

(PBRUMEN OFFICER STATIONED MADR AND STATION ASSETS AS IRAVELLING TO ZAR-

AGOZA, SPAIN WITH ANOTHER PBRUMEN OFFICER. AMLASH 3 WAS RECRUITED

68) BY AMWHIP I TO ASSIST AMLASH OP AT LEAST ME WAS GIVEN SY COMMO BY

SECRET

001252234

---

## Page 2

#4-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 12,9Y PAGE Z.

AHIP I TO WRITE AMMKIP I PAPRIRE AND HAS RECEIVED MONEY FROMO

ALSO AMLASH 2 AND 3 AND ANBIDDY I WELL KNOW QUSPORT I WHO WORKING ON

SENSITIVE OP, HOS AMARE RUSPORT I VELL KADUN ANUHIP 1 AND UNTIL RECENTLY

IN HIS EMPLOY (SEE REF 8).

A. UHILE VE MYVE NO NEED INDU DETAILS ANLASH OP DO FEEL MADR AND OTHE

INTERESTED STATIONS SHOULD BE ADVISED VHEN HIS "CONTACT MAN" AMURIP !

IN AREA IF HE TRAVELLING ON KUBARK BUSINESS. IT WOULD ASSIST IN MONI-

TORING ACTSVITIES AND COULD TIE IN WITH OTHER PERUMEN OPS. AFTER ALI

ANUHIP I IS PRETTY MUCH A "HEELER AND DEALER" SYPE AND NOT A KUBARK

STAFFER.

LATEST DEVELOPPHENTS ARE QUSPORT I CONTACTED BY ARLASH 3 MORN-

TING 3 FEB.

TOLD AFLASH I STILL ROME WITH ANWHIP I•

AMLASH 3 SAID AR

LASH I NOT SATISFIED WITH SILENCER FURNISKED BY ANBIDDY I (SEE REF C)

FAND AMBIDDY 1 SECRETARY FLEY PAPRIME GET ANOTHER. AMLASH 3 CLAINED

AMLASH I VERY NERVOUS AND PHONING HIM DAILY. AMBIDDY I RETURNED MADR

FROM ASTURIAS WHERE VISITED RELATIVES AND HOLDING FUND RAISING MEETING

NITE 3 FEB. AHLASH & FLEW TO MADR FRON BARC & FES. RETURNED BARC & FEB.

SECRET

14h0.51

3::

Слad 10109 11691"2

Er 210.001 2010 Cleäre.

5923

194441

SECRET

dider agat

---

