# 104-10179-10018

## Page 1

104-10179-10018

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• 0.0

C. 78

9 21 A30 60

10

"DIRECTOR

FRCH A ANSH

03

AGNON, UH 9 EOL. MILLARO, IN DIV NOTIFIED 2245, 20 NOV)

IN:O. , DCI, D/OCI, DO/P, COP, ADOP/A, S/C 2

IF ROUNNO

NOV 21 03362 60

PRIORITY

IN 45370

POLTY DIR LSO PRITY HAVA CITE MASH 1763

MIST

P=SH 1203 CIa 44195)e

4154 1725 (IN 44543)".

C

4954 1701 CN 44034) 890

1.

MOSNING 19 NOV

DED NOT BRISE ISLE OF PINES DSFECTIC":, PROSABLY BECAUSE PRESENCE

=704

MISTING CORDIAL BUT DULLO, ACHIAOS ASKED RODES GROUP TRILA

21 TEP YEN NOW MASH IN GENERAL GW TECHVIQUES, SPECIFICALLY WANTED

THE IS NED FOR SHORT PERIOD 62-3 WEEKS) IN MASH AREA THEN INFILTRATED:

STATED HAD NO CAPASILITY HANDLE LOCAL TRAINING THIS TYPE, BUTE

MIGHT APRANGE SAB TRAINING FOR SELECTED FEW AND REQUESTED FULL BIO

DATA PRASPECTIVE TRAINEES... NO MENTION ESCAMBRAY GROUP REF A.

• 3. AT SECOND CONTACT WITH ANCHIRP-I ONLY MORVING 2A NOW, A-I BRAUGHT

US ISLE OARINES DEFECTION. FOLLOWS ADDITIOVAL DETAILS TO RETS BAND CO

As

IN CHARGE REINFORCEO CAPITANIA IMTEDIATELY SSW MODEL

p2150:1.

TOTAL STRENGTH 750 MEN, SELIEVES CAY INFLUENCE APROX 350

• '" GE ADJACENT COMMAND OF QUE "CHINO CIRUE NAME UNKNOSSI.

CHINO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OMICE IS PROMISTED.

Copy No.

6/5R

---

## Page 2

'N

45570

• PAGE

CULARLY IOTAG TO CASTR?.

LOOSELY IN CANTAST WITH MIL COMMANDER MODEL PRISON

•" POOAREUTLY VAGUELY SYMPATHETIC BUT UNWILLING TAKE ASY EARLY

COMMI "MEVIS.

C. BASICALLY PLAY IS TO FREE HUBER MATOS FROM MODEL PRISON.

FILLY ISLAND GARRISON UNDER HIS AEGIS, HOLD OUT ON ISLAND LONG ENOUGH

TO 812 GET SUASTANTIAL OUTSIDE SUPPORT FROM. ANY AND ALL SOURCES

12) PROVIDE INSPIRATION OTHER REBEL 'ARTY GARRISONS DO SAME FOR SNOW

BALL EFFECT.

DO TACTICAL PLAYNING INVOLVES SUDDEN OCCUPATION ALL COMMO

INSTALLATIONS, AIR FIELD INSTALLATIONS, CIVIL ADMINISTRATION, MODEL

PRISON, MILITARY HOS RESPONSIBLE DEFENSE MODEL PRISON, MOS OF ALL

GARRISON COMMANDS NORTH OF- LAVIER SWAMP AND NAVAL STATION AT NUEVA

04

DEPENDING O WORD MIL COMMANDER MODEL PRISON TO GIVE

AID NOT OPPOSE ANY SERIOUS ATISMPT FREE HUBER MATOS.

THIS PROMISE.

SUPPOSEOLY MADE BOTH TO MUSER AND HUSER WIFE.

HAS CUT IN 10

CFFICERS NIS COMMANDA, EXPECTS APPROX S0 MORE TO SIDE WITH HIM

FSELS WILL BE ABLE CARRY APPROX 3, GOB OF ESTIMATED 5,200 ISLAND

GARRISON WITH HIM IN FIRST 24 HRS.

S. ANCHIRPES STATED COUP IS PLANSO BEGIN LATE AFTERVOON 2I NOW.

1 ArCHIRPA, AGAIN REGUESTED AID NEUTRALIZE REBEL AIR FORGE AND

ASSISTANCE PROVIDE SU-PLIES.

COYYEUTEd THAT TO MIS CERTAIN

KVOWLEOSE THE REQUEST HAD ALREADY BEEN PUT IN CHANELS.

SO ADOED

THAT HIS "PROFESSIONAL ESTIMATE" WAS THAT IF GROUP ACTUALLY SERIOUS

¿POUT 2S NOU DATE, THEY HAD BETTER 55 PREPARED MOLO OUT MITIALLY

SANT

REFRODUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINE OFFINE IS PROMIBITED

6/8R

---

## Page 3

1191

SO "TO BIOLORS 29 EUERYTHINO THEY COULO TO MELP. -89S ANCUTER-LOS

P:90E9CI0HSL PSECHIENDATIONS CREAD BLOCKS, TIMING, TARSETS, ETC.?.

S! HC: TO EFFECT SSIZURE OF THE ISLAiD.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:* MASH reported that AMCHIRP -! (1) stated that the group in

Escambray was ready and waiting for arma.

* MASH otated that a contact with Manolo Ray on the evening of

17 November revealed that the Ible of Pines was the target mentioned in MASH 1701

(IN 44034) 968

*** A courior was advleed by Ray that about 2, 000 well armed rebel

forces were ready to turo againet Castro.

THE ACCINNA DEFINE IS PROMIBITEO

---

