# 104-10175-10085

## Page 1

104-10175-10085

---

## Page 2

14-00000

---

## Page 3

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 4

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 5

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 6

SECRET

ROUTINS AND PECORD SHEET

Otticor designations snoutade asee in tra

"To" caluen. Under

DACh CORDAR! A LinO BrOUld to drawn

seross sadot and doco comment numberod to correspend with ina suaser en the "To"coluan. Each officor ssould lalelal

Thia Recare and houting Stoor should be

FROM:

FOT

RP A. 690

DATE

DATE

#O.

REE'D

OFFICER'S

IDE T: ALS

COMMENTS

pe

29.

asid dad 40-26

201 30999

ABSTRACT SITEY 1

4972:55

SECRET

---

## Page 7

OFFICIAL "DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO.

225-10:30

VIA:

AIN OR SEA POUCH

SECRET - KAPK

CLASSIFICATION

: Chief, Fereion

Treach T

FROM

: Crisi sê Station.

SUBJECT: GENERAL- ¿gents an:

TEcTants

SPECIFIC- Subject of TTP-I-639

DATE: 3: Paniar 1050

The sitess of subject is:

Districation:

Fish

Piles 1

SECRET - KAPO

CLASSIFICATION

201

30999

---

## Page 8

SECR

ROUTING ANQ. RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTION&s Offleer designations

Under enes consent a dino should to drasm

across shoot and nach comment nuabered lo correspond alta la rumber in the "To" clan,

Each officer should intelal

(Chock mark ionfflelont before farther reuting.

This Record and Routing Meat should De raturned to degiatry.

FROM:

дра - 689

RJOH

DATE

TO

REC" D

780' D

1e Rain 50

FDT

₴014

OFFICER'S

LASTIALS

ah

b5 gen 2s worn

201 30999

¡CATE APR 21 1855

080 Fogiery

JAN 231860

10

15/4

-.

8808

#1.10

SEGRET

---

## Page 9

td-nnon

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO. EIF-"

-=10

. VIA:

AIR OR SEA POUCH

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

то :

:

Chief, Foreign F-arenT

FRow : Chief cf Statin!'

DATE:

15 42319

1950

SUBJECT: GENERAL- "gonto and trimments

SPECIFIC. JD3Q

The serrices

o? subject hed been tercirat-d prior to zy erival at this

station and, in fact, subject bes not

been residing more since nu arrival.

t:

He-mela ta banam an a binose in and nes introduced to me by

FRIED.

In the course of the conversation, subject nice es

a decire,

alter he becomes zoe settled

Ito have contact vith our oifice

there.

Since Feadquarterg and particlarig

are in a beiter position

no recommerdation is teing rade.

The address of subject nill follo in a separate dispatch.

Distribution:

*=ah

2

REGISTRY COPY

SEC%ST

CLASSIFICATION

•n1. 30999

98•₴#

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING ANG

RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Cffice: desigratiore (see

sepirats steet) should be used in the "To" colman.

Under eacs comment a lize should be draw across areet and each ecoment numberal to correspond

with the racer in the "o colurn.

Eaci:

officer grould initial (check mark i-sificiert)

before firer routina. This Record end Pouting Sheet should be returned to Feziery.

AGGESSION NG.

FROM:

For

DI. 1. 68?

DATE RECEIVED IN S. A

DATE

ROOM NO.

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS

FORWARDED

TO

Ral

...

44"

201: 30999

DATE APR 2 1 1955

FORM NO.

51-10

1946

SEGRET

---

## Page 11

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO. T2P-A-607

VIA:

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

SECRET - LAPOE

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Chief, Poreign Branch I

FROM

Chief of Station

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Administrative

SPECIFiC - EYDROL.

DATE: 4 November 1949

No further action is contenplated in connection with this projecte

Dietritation:

Fast 2

Fles 1

did sides

201

30999

SECRET - KAPOK

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 12

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO Chief, Registry Dartsim

FROM Chief, FBIRnA

SUBJECT:Hydrol

File Noo 202-999

DATE: 15 June 1949

2a Subject Isle is transitted hereilth for retentior

In Registayo The project has beon terminatado

2o Appropriate indexing has been copleted.

30

Accoss to subject file mst be cleared with the Chief

of FBI.

Bist

Toot

SHET

201

30953

---

## Page 13

14-00000

S1.023T

8 June 1919

Imita

SUSJECI: Authorisation of Fieid traject Expiralzuros 2o1

Pils 8131 Infor you so the eustorizatler. od the ?ollo-dar Y1cld

Frojects so oy approvai of tis expandian of speciaù funds jor the tailorinz:

PrOJSOT

ACULES SUTHOrIZED

TOTAL

1.1x:-30 Sep.

=391-17 1'350 = Apra30 Jar

Tered an tod

1 40r11 1949

ho project axcaro:273s 10:ela1.

We apport quarter bairating diongos e:

mad agsiest

chie:, Feroir Franch

201

30909

---

## Page 14

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:

tant

SPECIFY AIR CE SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO. IT-ALA

CLASSIFICAT ON

TO

FROM

: icting Chier, F2T

: Chief of Station

SUBJECT: GENERAL-

Agents and Inforcants

SPECIFIC.

lYzaCi. - Operational Feview

DATE:

.12

CCUNTRY:

ONE ATONAL 1517311

October 1540 - Narch 1549•

1o

Subjee? is no longer an active operative of this stetion. ile was forced

to ascontire his activities on our behalf because of the press o: per

soal businesse # IOn IC is non in contact with liL ACiD and HEOL I

has been taken over by inchoricaic.

2.. During the period of nis connection tith this station, nicl failed to

subait any inforational refort nich in i seld nerited transission to

the Hore Orfise.

lone of tis operations tere clean in the senõe thai a

U.S. loverment influence had to te introciced into the actual activation

of each of his sources.

Tnis couplec with the fact that ne lacker lollo

through: has given a slightly sour aspect to ail of his operations.

Te

intere to ciscontinue our conrections with Subject.

---

## Page 15

14-00000

DUCULENTS IN DOSSIER

125 4-102

TZF 4-387

IZE A 454

1-6.90

1-689

Jane check

TZP-152

2P.00.975

72P. w. 926

201

30999

---

## Page 16

6 denary

1949

kenorendun for Chief, Special Funds

Hydrol

$150 for second quarter 1949

Territos

801

30900

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS:

Cfficer designations (see separate aheet) sirald be used in the "To" column.

Under each comment a line should be train across sheet and esco comment rabered to correspond

with the sunber in the "To" colurr.

Each officer should initial (check sark irsufficient)

before further routing. This Record and Routing Sheet should is returned to Registry,

FROM:

ACCESSION 1O.

12P-A - 381

DATE RECEIVED IN S. A.

TO

ROOM NO.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

2216

9/12

FFICER'S

NITIALS

COMMENTS

7.1.

Fell informed by despatch

on 4 der. till the proger

cont to be actiona:

more tid bows

Directed it allot tra

' month for the dool!

and an addation sa.st

for adan, and of persi

I his sut a gant.

201

30999

CATE APR 21 1555

SECRET

($031

---

## Page 18

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 19

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 20

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 21

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 22

30006-+1

---

## Page 23

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 24

14-00000

---

## Page 25

IS 38550

183

20 IaF 18

•. !-..

201 : 30999

---

## Page 26

14-00000

WICETRICH, AlPOrSO RudolEh

IN 38550

188

29 kar 48

*01

30999

---

## Page 27

ta-tended

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: FBI

DATE: Deoember 25, 1947

FROM

: CSB

SUBJECT: WICHTRICH, AlSOnBO Ro

Roference la made to your renorandun of October 51, 1947, wherein you

request that this office conduct a four way name check relative to the abore

entitled subjeet.

This la to dvise that a four my check was instituted concerning the

subfoot, with the following resultes

I-S Notking Identifiable

L-3 No record

In] Nothing derogatory.

of Confidential Govermment egoney I-?: I

Thore 1s transmitted herewith a copy of a report obtained from the files

turned to this offico when it has serred its purpose.

cemented the this caport de rem

trary.

The aboro completes our action in this matter unless advised to the con-

Chief, Security Branch,

OSO

Im? Report

Got.

•26 December 1947.

2.3.

T20- 9-102

SECFET

901

3099g

---

## Page 28

14-00000

-CONFIDENTIAL

SLOTRICE, Alfongo Rudolph

4 December 1947

On Deconbor 3, 1947 the Investigative filesl

of Confidential Govorment gondy (Iu2) vero examined and

digolosed the following:

Includod In the file 1s an Anvostlintive

report dated June 25,

1943 regarding one. Captair Al. R.

Richtrich,

1niy Serial dunber 0377220, which revealed

no adverse infomation regurding Subject.

It was men-

by lour inforants that Subject's

was suspecsed of having pro-domin leuning during forld

Har it, but those suspicions us-e not verified by tro

Infomants,

Persons Intervlered vouched for Subject's

father's loyelty at the time of the investigation.

It was noted that Subjset!s Personal History

staterent da ed Fabruary 18, 1003 indicates that he wan

tigation veriried the luct, norever,

that Subjoct was born

In Chibuabus, Mexico on Ostober 30, 1015.

In a casual conversation with anothor of

fIcer,

subject voluntenred the following Informacion with

rospect to faccidg

or his virthplaco.

Subjoct stated that

he had no birth cortiricato and had moved from Chihuahua

Moxico to El PEsO,

Texas, with his parents, when he var

one or two jears of are.

Subject atated that he hed never

Inquirod about, nor zoalized that he wes born in culueira.

until he was in high school, hering proviously presimed tist

ho was born in the locale In thick Is caildhood as apont,.

Viz, M1llcox, Arizone.

2250

Subjact statod luther thet he

Gave his

Arizone on lis appllention tor en

listment In ROTO to eliminato confllet with any previous

records which wouls toan require ait o? "rod tape" in

making what he considered then a minor discrepuner of no

father's naturalization auto

mritically made him (Subjoct) a citizen of the United States.

It san the opinion of the offloor making the

on subjucts birthplaoe, that any conciloting!

o° Subjoot's birthplace ras not due to any rotivos

subterruse, but was nost probably due to Subject's desire

expedite his entranoe Into college without oncountering!

-CONFIDENTIAL

30999

---

## Page 29

14-00000

CAN 10E44 1AS

the difficultios of time required and uncertrinty of

rasults In proouring cortrin

papors

onia night bo ro

querod li suafeat were to iniicate

ns his birtholado.

The file indiontes further that records

county o cochise,

naturalizo! at Tombstono,

CertIfioace Mumber 1734033; fort of intry, l Paso Texas,

Tano d9: 1915.

on his potition for naturalizution Subo

ject's father gavo as cne of l's sovoral s01 dionao Yichria

who was boin at Chinuahua, lexico

Subjoot's faully was rosiding si fIlleor, irizona,

Or?

Kay 15, 1322.

Subject's father nes born in Commany.

The abore-montioned Poraonal History Stato

Tichtrioh who was born in Vexico of Spmish National

NE8: JOH

CENEADENFIAL

901

30999

---

## Page 30

SEGRET

ROUTING AND RECORO SHEET??.

INSTRUCTIONS:

ifficer desigrations (so separato 3-e0*;

snouid be vent in the *to" column.

Under each commer: a line should be dramn scroga sheet aná sach coment rumborei

to correspond

with the number f.

the "To" colun.

Each aricer should

intock cork incaticient)

before further coring.

This Record and Routing

Shest should be returned to Peristry.

ACCESSION NO

FROM:

rigues

DATE RECEIVED IN S. A.

ROOM NO.

RECEIVED

DATE

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

CIC

221 tir

18/11

Baxton

11=

7.7.

COMMENTS

One pier a baire 1?.

1-0

derog story internatien es

Caritainer in MiD files

ton this indu: sual. The

ore not made aralibie

to this effice, bur vere

searclied be

resporsibie a

19

201

30999

FORM NO. 51 - 10

SECRET

11331

---

## Page 31

14-00000

5 Hovenüer 2747

20g

Arter, Liaison Control

SEJECTs Alfonso rudolph richrach

Your etiention is cirected to rersgraph 4 of the attached

dispatch wien mentions a uocwiers in the hands of the lilitery

Intelligence Division of the Department a: the srijo

This office

70:12

Ten dealers.

ole decent

and is forvarding thie reruest for the appropriate action you deem

necessary.

SECRET

201

30990

---

## Page 32

14-00000

VIA: A1T

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

SECRET

Classification

Dispatch NO. 57.9,9-102

Date

20 October 1947

TO.-

YBT

FROK

:

TZP

SUBJECT: General - Operations

Specific - M1Iongo iudolph ICHTRICE

allas A VIC TRICH

1915 1n Lexico.

je is a

Catholic

and the owrer of a house

located near Radio station HoX 1n Golf Helghts, i. de P. mich

he purchased fron inck Fidarue.

kiin bucines?

partner in the

Pan Merican Industries Co. Inc. 13 Guorce d. BIAS, who 1s

Other key nen are Enrique

Secretary and l'anner or the compan iuds, Trensurer. Be spends

Vica-freaident; end madeo

fluent Spanish an

nopears to te gettir? alor? vary sell "ith

the nore Influentl: l Panaranians.

The telep ces nunter of the

Pan Aperican Irdustries vo. Inco chartered for bottling soyal

Croni Coin where

"ICITaICE has his office is rarana 3490-i,

located at Calle 30 y Justo rosemena.

His office hours nre

ugno to 1200 ard 1130 to 173 it 15 bellevad be mus

lils post office address is :

Box 1121 ¿Icon, Choal Zone.

decorated

by the soumentan: coverrment for his service ir chira.

Tils wife lo Rachel 3. VICHTRICH also n U. S. oitizen.

was torn 13 Februnry 1917 in Avoco, Texes.

she is

the

bearer of t. S. possport 1146432. Her

brother 1a belleved to

be enployed by the feieral Burenu of Investigetion.

3 ..

VICHIZICh is the father of to chiiiren, a girl auproa

Inataly 130 7 ind: boy of ncout 4.

se 1s plarning a busingsa

trip to dexico city, lexico on 2 Hovenber 1947.

he will be

accompaniad by his wife und remain in telco until 15 Moverbar

at nhich tine he viil return to

Punna.

subjeet otntes there 1s a completo file concernine hin

In the hanla of the «Ilitary Intelllence Division of the repurt

ment of the iray.

It would

be appreclited it you would obtaln

their flle and forward all pertirent information to thia statiore

201

36990

SECRFT

5 k

---

## Page 33

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEE!

INSTRUCTIONS:

orficer desirations (see separate sceet) should be used

In the

column,

l'ader each comment a line ebould be draw aeross sheet and each coment nuebered *s correspond

wicb the nueber in the "To" eclamn.

Fact officer show:: initial (check mark irg.?icient)

belore further routing. This Record and Pouting Sheet should be returned to Regary.

FROM:

AGGESSION AS

7004K4%

DA REC-4=102

OCT 30:317

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS

DATE

ROOM NO.

211

RECEIVED

B0lP

FORWARDED

FBT

ator

30/10

79.

crabor copy faraint

Desults f chock sant to

nothing carag a long.

s0/o

Teary

MICROFILME

AJG 1 9 1963

DOC. NICRO. BER

eQue.

4- may.

check

attard

IQ.

INDEX

CS COPY

30999

LESTRACT T

CATE APR 21 :555

41393}

FORM NO. 51 - 10

KEP

146

SECRET

---

## Page 34

14-00000

YTA: Afr

OFFICI I DISPATCE

SECRET

Classification

Jiapatch lic. T2P.R-/02

Date

20 October 1947

TO

:

fer

FRON

MiCROFILMED

AUG 1 9 1963

DOC. MICRC. SZR.

SUBJECT: General -- Operations. fs..

Specific - fongo judolph -ICITRICE

Ellas il "CiTRICh

1.

aubject is a unized

1915 in retico.

lie is a Catholic and the owner of = house

located neer Ridio

stetion HoX in Golf Feights, i. de P. which

His Fusiness partser in the

he purchaser Indu tedes ta tue 15 George so Allis, 1ao 13

Pan AmeriCEn

Industries Co.

Secretary end lanager of the compony.

Eter key to are enrique

Iefevre,

rice-President; und inadeo

He speaks

Fluent

spanish and appears to be getting

along very well with

the more

Incluenticl

¿anaman lans.

The telen one ruster of the

Pan Anerican Industries vo. Inc.

chartere: for botting Royal

Crown Cola

where

WISE RICH has ais office is ¿andra 3420-4,

loonted et calle 3ú = custo aresamena.

z1s office curs are

0900 to 1200 and 1430 to 1730.

lis post ofíice adcress is

Sox 1121 -con, Canal

¿one.

It is bellaver ho was

decorated

by the ¡cuentana roverrmont for his service in obira.

ils wife is Rachel I.

ÁCERIOR CleO Aü. s. citizen.

she was borr 13 retrusty 1917 in ivoca,

TaXeS.

is the

bearer of

3. passcort 1146432.

der brother is barlevca to

be employei by

the feieral Bureau of Irvestigation.

& girl a20r0%

3.

Inately aga. 7 ma

trio to erico

accompanies by nis

whier time he wiza

-soy of nbout 4.

•exico or

2 lovenber 1947.

te niil se

una remin interico until le

"overber

return to dirade

•sic

lect

stares there

10 & conviete lile corcernind him

in the

of ins

ilitary intellience divicior ci tie

vegart-

nient of

tas atrio

se a prcolto: 18 moe natal obtala

t.a1r t'ile

"?.!

nauri all perchient

Irtorntlot i=

in statior.

2090t47

INDEX

201

SECRET CS COPY

30999

---

## Page 35

14-00000

OSS For 2262%

PROM:

150

Rocm

Date

sec.

- 1'1.

CONFIDENTIAL

BETTING AND RECORD SHEET

Accession lio.

:: ÷ 07

Date Rec"t EA

Cificer's

¿liciais

Corrents

PPS

102

2.

Reuest that subject

be called in por interview

with

3.

5.

6.

sile was

Each cornest

should te numbered to corresposd with number in To coluen.

shee: under each conment.

Officer Designations should be used in To column.

Each Officer. should initial (check nark insufficient) before. further routing.

Action desired or action taken should be indicated in Comments columa.

Routine sheet should almays be relurned to Registry.

Por Officer Desianatlons see separate

291-38999

CONFIDENTIAL TOLSTESID

---

## Page 36

14-00000

- Intervierer's teres

Referred by

_COLTOL 10:

DISE: ENOU 46

2o 2HE: WICHIRICH

(lasti

2.

SERIAL MULES:

RECOIS ENDED FOR BRANCH:

AL

(First)

(ale)

ORGANIZEE LOE:

30

ADDRESS:

Busiress or slitary

3444 GUNSTON RO, ALEX VE

'DATE CE BIRTH:

_Tel. i0.:

835}

5.

ecrititles)

6.

LANGUAGES: (degree of fluency, bos sequired)

SPANIGH

FLUENT

70. FOREIGN ELERIENCE: (extent, purpose)

CHINA-2YS WIN MIS-X. CPVUBPAN, MISLOGL

PRINCIPLE CIVILIAN EPIECE: (22i- occupation, special skills,

PANCE ECOLOGIST - DEFT OF AGA. -

elective offices)

MOW MEMBER OF FIM ESTABLSHINE BOTTLING PLANTS

THROUGAOUT CENTRAL

SOUTA AMERICA.

9.

LILITARY EERIENCE:

(principal fies,

service schools, paysical

profile, If

*Sicer:

"angst of performance

rating; If E: A0CT

score, Spec dos, degree oi

Skills,

TOS 3ed 200 Nos, end titLeS)

MAR 46. -47.604.

SERVEDAT

COMPLETED G-2 COURSE AT LENINORIN. PLUS MIS-*

COURSE

IN WASHINGTON,

10. ANY UNFAVORASLE CIRCUSTANCES: (civil or nilitary)

561-309991

202-1323 host.

---

## Page 37

14-00000

11°

RELEKS: (suy additioral pertinert information)

an intreted in

120 CLE-PED IS AVIL:BLE 34:

130 SERVICE REDRI CHECHED: FOrE 66-1

Ilo RiTIFGS:

Notivation - Elergy, effort,

Initiative, interest in assignent.

Precticsi Interizence - Juigzent

decisiveness, alertness, perceptior.

Strbility - Brational contrcl end

anturity, absence of nervous syaptons.

Tbility to Ters with Others - last,

ebsence uf annoying traits.

Leadership - Crednizing ability,

ability to rir cooperation.

Physical ibility - ippear ice,

preseace, vigor, staniza.

Fara 20

(Fank endar. "or Serzice) " Told Branch)

---

## Page 38

14-00000

5,041

August 30, 1916

MEMOR ANDUM TO Mr. Ligatsoy

Subject:

Lt. Colonel Al Ro Micitrich (Inactivo)

Some months ago, It. Colonel Al R.

#chtrich, 3444 Gunster Road, Alexandria, was

pecommended to me as a possible candidate for

service in Chine.

During the war he headed up the

AGAS 1n China for G?.

He was recommended to me by Colonel

Ederd R. Johnston formerly of G-?.

P.

ЛАЯТИ"

"B" Daputy

office of. Special Oparations

CONFIDENTIAL 31 SEC

202-1835

it stead.

---

## Page 39

14-00000

Office Memorantum®

NES StATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: € September 1916

TO

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Chief, Procurerer- Section

Personnel Officer, CIG

Memorandum re - It. Col. Al R. Wichtrich (Inactive)

Tho attached

memorandum of 30 August 1945 from

with regard to Colonel Micstrich, is referrad to you for consideration.

Since it would expear that Colozel Michtrich would be of more

value to S.0., it 18 fortarded for corsideration by officials in that

Brasche

This corraspendence hes homn reenaded in the Centrai Decords of

CIG and I should be advised 1f you desire to retain it in your files.

Persomel Citleer, "yo

Attachment

ces Central Records, CIG (2)

FOr SENTE

51509981

07187

---

## Page 40

5 Hotsab s 1946

It. Col. Al R. Wiehtrich (Inaotiva)

34ld Cumstar Hoad,

Laxandris, Virgini

Dear 81F8

Your sane has been roferred to us by Colonel Edward R Johnston

as a person who sight be interested in a possible asaignnaat with thin

organisation.

Although we are not presently engaged in a general recruiting

program, no aro almys Intereated in specially qualified personnal.

Is you are intersaid an expiaring ina junsivizi: da is sagis

mant with thie organisatic, it is requested that you call at this

office for Interview. le are located at the South Sulldt-8, 2430 I Sta

Thank feu for your cooperation.

Porsonnel Procuremant Jeerien

Project Support Division

04138999

2021835605-01

---

