104-10218-10034).

The bere of the Inland of Free:
* Goan shesl to leave for home.
Fidel Castro and his party were
sea 0 by ML. Khrwshchov,
* qhaimaan of the USSR Council
ef Ministers, asd R Malloovsiy,
‘py Soviet Minister of Defence.



of the SovigtCuban jor

The handshake followed te signi

Statement in the Kremlin

cee



SECRET 3125042

FO Dig crTe MExT arin :
be . Jour
f  LCINPROVE | a

np -wexy aseo C1) eel )+ 8

“RE REF PLEASE RECKECK DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA SIP PLATS.
2 CaR AND PLATES 8S:

ED ASAIN, PLATES EXPIRED 3-31-60.

ancy

Cee a aay





At the Brats hy-
roctectric project.

j



= In the assembly shop of the
“Uralmashzaved” enterprise
in Sverdlovsk.

Bole IBZarsg

_aseteemronsoorht

toate st



|.
oa
TO SOVIET-CUBAN FRIENDSHIP

we ae
Ee <3

mete Set
“Long five eternal friendship!” Nikita Khrukcbow and Fidel Castro at the Lushnihi Sta





Ar

c

USSR seo pages 3

material
Castro's visit to the

(for

olgograd Tractor Works,

Fidel Castro visiting

nd 7
1F4
|

/
WN



a ny

Fidel Castro watches the antics i a “Balkal” bear cub he has received as 2 present,

1BAI3F

'
|
|

|
|

ave



et
j eee. oe
. ‘WE ARE FORGING
HAPPINESS AND
PEACE ON EARTH?



doom ner:

SX -37357
14 May 1963

SUBJECT: AESTORAGE No. 841
Nikolay Sergeyevich LEONOV (201-132139)
H DOr: 1962

NOTE: AESTORAGE represents @ collation of information

Provided by several reliable and sensitive sources, some

of them documentary. ARSTORAGE information is not to be
_ released outside of the Clandestine Services ‘Components

‘of CIA unless written authorization has teen granted by
c/sR/cr, ormation may be traismitted to.

CIA field stations only after it has been coordinated vith
(757 oan ae :

In August 1962 Source identified Subject as a KGB officer, presently
assigned to Mexico City.





ww

Nikita Khrushohov und Lidei Casta, In the buckground, right, Lesrigt Brezhnev

det Verkby

qaileg és

14:

2ey~



Nikita’ Khroshchow and Fidel Castro

tat the Likhachey Automobile Works,
which they visited the day before
May 1,

‘The workers of the plant were hold-
Ing @ seclal evening at their Palace of
Calture, and the distinguished guest
was greeted by thousands of people.
Both Nikita Khrushcboy and Fidel
‘Castro were presented with models of
the ZIL car made at the’ Works. Before
the concert, Milita Khrushchov, Fidel
: Castre and his party saw a documen-
sttary film ‘about the Works, which was

wthe Srst. Soviet automobile plant.
- Femons perlormers and amateurs took
“rt in the concert, which wound up
7 Nec thee duly-26th March”. The last

m4 were deowned in entiusta

+ planse, and cries of “Viva Fidel!
Viva Cuba!” resounded in the ball
» Woog-alterwards,





LEFTIST SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES-Soviet ‘Directed Insurgency

Monthly CI Report
OSI District 30

May 1963

(S) (Gp-1) A Soviet Embassy official in Mexico City,
Nikolai 8.' LEONOV, is allegedly actively planning an insur-
gent movement in Latin America.. LEONOV left Mexico for the
USSR on 21 April to confer with: KHRUSHCHEV and CASTRO.
Credence is given this report'by the publication of a photo-
graph of the three on 8 May in.a Cuban newspaper. The pho-
tograph was purportedly taken during a recent neeting.

if
i

:
i
{
i

(8) (Gp-1) Cuba and Mexico, according to LEONOV'’s
schemes, would serve as bases for the insurgency... Cuba
would be the “invisible beachhead" and Mexico the point for.
covert distribution of arms.

(8) (Gp-3) The individual selected as the contact man :
for arms acquisition is said to have been engaged in simi~
lar activity in Guatemala about a year ago.

(8) (Gp-3) Another report: from sources in Colombia
stated that pro-CASTRO ex-President CARDENAS planned to
call a meeting in Mexico City of "leftist bent", disgrun-
tled retired military officers from Latin American coun-
tries on the subject of insurgency. (DIA, 3 June 1963)



r

su NDAY, MA) MAY

WS OF THE WEKx

CASTRO AND hte LEADERS WATCH MAY DAY PARADE IN MOScOW-

oN =
c) zs 32
BS Scere _
oe Biever vats “
ee RS Ra9
7 _ Sy:
ei Se
ew? :
\ unueat ~\



a i
4 t

. } 1

Fy } E

t ri He :
4 ‘ | i

| ;

i

| !

ad

{
‘

CUB. SR : “APRIL 2, 1983.
CASTRO IN USSR. LEFT TO RIGHT, LEONOV, N, USSR; KHRUSHCHEY N., USSR; CASTRO, F 3%
CUBA; BREZHNEV, L., USSR; SHVERNIK, N., ussR; SUSLOV, A., USSR; KOsYGiN, A., USSR 5!

AND BOLYANSKY, O., USSR. ‘
OFFICIAL USE ONLY” oa : ciA-P-165872 {



2” ACTION, WHS

|. SE © RFICBxUS2226z

“

ye

INFO ; ADOP, CI, cI/oPs, CI/IC 2, Fi, FI/INT 2,

DIR CITE MEX! 4327 ZE be / 26 APRESS
DCAP :

CCORDING LIFIRE NIKOLAY LEONOV LEFT MEXI FOR USSR WITH
SFAMILY 21 APR ON SABENA, i

‘SECRET

Bp I- 133134

: a GROUP_1
: |. SEGRE] EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN~
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION,
sthonnicrine AO RTOES Tusw TEEN ACEIFE 16 BOMUIDITER :



Porn ae

Es [ae &

HOCUMENT DISPOSTFIEN

13. TRANSFERRED 70
eH FILE KO.

“MEXI 0563, 0695, 0327, ©873, AND’ ALSO OTHER MEXI REPORTING RE CARDENAS,

PERTIKENT INF ORVAT 10:4

LEONOV, NIKCLAY SERGEYEVICH /201-132139/

NIKCLAY SERGLYEVICH LEONGY /201-132139/ STATIONED MCUNTED LIEMBRACE
SURVEILLANCE FOR EVENTUALITY HE MIGHT MAKE LAST M CLANDESTINE
MEETS, MEXI EFFORTS PAID CFF IN THAT TEAM ABLE SPOT OVIOUS CLANDESTINE!
HALF HOUR MELT EVE 19 APR, TEAM TAILED MEXICAN CCNTACT WHCi4 STATION HAS|
NCW IDENTIFIED AS LORENZO CARDENAS LARAJAS, GIT MEXICO, FOR INFO

CARDENAS, DIRECT HQS ATTENTION LINLUCK TRAFFIC MEX! O55 ON 11 APR 62,

LIEMGRACE SURVEILLANSE LEONOV 20 APR DROPPED DURING LATE AFTERNOON
AFTER LEONOV MADE OBVIOUS EFFORTS DETERMINE IF HE UNDER SURVEILLANCE,
INTERESTING NOT E_ THAT LECNOV WAS THEN DRIVING AROUND SAME AREA WHERE
HAD CLANDESTINE MEET PREVIOUS EVE. 1EAM BELIEVES LEGNOV DID NOT
DETECT THEIR PRESENCE, :

ACCORDING LATEST LIEONOV INFO, APPEARS LIKELY. LEONOV RETURNING MEXI
AFTER HOME LEAVE, USSR, :

STATION FILES REFLECT THAT BASIS LINLUCK INFO, MEX! ADVISED LITE“POS
OURING APRIL 1962 THAT CARDENAS INVOLVED SMUGGLING ARS GUAT, APR 63
MEX? LEITEMPO FROVIDED FOLL INFO CARDENAS- ENROLLED MILITARY COLLEGE,



PAngtod
sesily|

torts avutves).

APPRAISAL Of COKTUNT As Contumer ty att

a Deaditd & Prebypty!
false. 6: Connat b: patced,  Ucewuneniany: Rened oa Crignst cr: : : 1

r
. : \ :
COUNTRY Cuba/Mexioo

SUBJECT Travel of Victor Rico Galan,
Mexican Marziet, to Cuba

EPOKT NO, E22 16770
phe
ATE CF REPEAT 5 October 1962

NO. OF PACES 2

DATE OF
INFO. 27 duly to 2 October 1962

PLACE &
DATE _ACQ.._ Mexico, Mexico City (27 July to 2 Octcber 1962 t
SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE._NOTE FOREGOING EXMARATION « :

SOURCE, Para, 1s :
_ ue Parte 26 nae
sea Apprateal_of Contents

Read Page ” . i
1, Victor Rico Galon, Mexican Marxist Journalist and head of the
National Fross and Propeganda Comittee of the Movixiento de
Libereoion Nacional (MLN = Natdonal Liberation Movenont, rebidly
.. antieInited States, pro~Cuba, Commnist front, plans to write
- @ political biography on Fidel Cestro Mus, Communist Primo Minister id
: ef Cuba, Rico Galan, who proposed the idea to the Cuban Goverme i
: +), Mant and was accepted, will spend two months in Cuba working on .
: - tha projecte 7

“Re On 2 October Rico Galan left Hexico for Habana, Cuba, on Cubana
+> Afrlines. Bs carried Maxtoan passport Noe sus, with a Cubsn

Un FAL SPMD GY TEE
ea re ate ‘% Basis QE HRS BOLE!
| Ry acne aA Xe ADA PAPAS ID LRH IIS, SAAR RAISARY EA. 93 $0
i : SECRET



{ i
i
i
i
i
i



|

iF ees
: i ian

* counny Cna/beataca essen, 2) roe no.; wee

7200 >+.s preip inrok MATION REPORT .

PUN CF DL A een ree Ue
enwrens of Souda Deawwy wn Wepe.ry rt wince dines vein
Famed prenmeh

DPPUANL CF CONTEST Ve Gantewed 2 tite aia Sect od te ere Sorte
Lane By Cowal 20 pend. Docwrwarn Seed on urawral Meche nk,

fae Upped
ad te sale do asa

: a)
| MET Soviet Assistance to. Cuba and DATE OF REPORT 22 May 1962
i Achaea cate i" : BI

HO.OF PAGES’ te

oan leer tutes esa Ac RORNRONCES Stats ae
pare 7 Spee = aaa cauiy as
£5 Mey wee, pia aoe iq é :
Oate ACO. Yexleo, Mexico City (5 Yay 1920) :

SOuice EVALUATIONS Ati Ceeniiive. APPRAISAL OF enc IEMA ROWE RESON TAT

The Soviet Goverment has assured the Cuban Covermcant that ‘tt ere
ivo ite @esistance to the Cubana 10 the event of ou aggrossion erainst
a ge ‘The Soviotes consider Guatemala to be‘ the nost. sensitive agc~ in.
. Latin Anorica at the present tina, s:d ace very interestdd in the Curton
malan problen, “Because of this the Soviets a:0 prepared to give their
tarce ta both countries int bad ridiercienarel struggles

1
i
i
t
:
i
|
!



' Mroreeinri

+35 Deosaber 1961

oitetion of Make of
Jeor eith tutes eth of July sovesent

MAB RE SOPs

lgvtet caaens | ar Or OG Ty

29255, 29 Mereuser 124

inolad Serceyevic® Liw0T relumed i kexioo 11 July 1980
wen-nosigne? to the Safet enay etoff, Third Seoretary,
_ dtplomsthe risnk, a9 an aostetert to Ylatinir RCCIKO¥ 1m, the Office
_uef Calturel Affaires Miie the Station frets trat Pidel CASTIO Ruste
recest public stateerate aieitting nia long-time ayspathics and asse-
clations with Comunigs ewevhat lesesne tle exploitation inact of
Nate “expose, it te aleo Felt that LW:V!e Mexioan mackground, dating
beck to 2955 ani inelutire the inciteat cisyed up by the Mexieen press
in 1256, io worthy of orese replay. Ls.'UY*s revarn and present res~-
ponsitie pooition fm the Soviet umpasey of wexioo will proyite adoed
: gntcseat in the story. TM Station will therefore attexpt to obtain the
Mexiean press ecocaunts of th 1956 incident, uptating this information
nto a prese artiote for exploitation as sorrested in references

rows
AS AnD $63
Hor et OGAFE



TRENT ATT Re re MRT RE FEN TM Ee KSA QAM a ge

giao crevices Licks af Sent,

daly ““ovenint acd retam of LE:

Ae 1260899,Ci9 35) oy
Be #109753, GB Parch IPA
Co FELIAHS93 (15 W9OST) =

2.

le Yow aftentis:: {so dzected to reference 4 which meatioced the prepos-4
TOCACK exuiettetion af tia fining ef the personal aplling card of “ikolad 5.
LOW" tn the eortreas Lock of Fide) CAI“ aa,

2, Although there were OOTFEL nmorts et the cam tim ee recarenes A,
titel recused thar the Mexican preas carriod e psasmily enc-reto ead comlece
ercourt ef tae braesm of tua Cutan revalutisoary ccaprizpey, Vat tho lender

> was Linsed vit). the corigt Eobaesy ard that be cervied in te wallet a card of
LES, cecrwtary to thi Seriet entecador, it cen not be deterviaed at Heme
quarters waver there we enecifle Ctation alajeap of tha inefurts

3. fa revtowing Station dispatencs rertatning to the CLSTH) case, refertce
Bwmo er:aine¢, os well no its atinnrest, the reert of Kiva. Te latter
eoramently ettencw to aoiain the clrowmstanses under wiieh the cereonal cers
of LAWL wee Srlartad® Ja the CALTHO actvece bate & @iserosarey in acted to
the reremstrectica of tha Sncicest of the arrest of CAS 23 end te discovery,
WEPP eg wird in vat botk te refercece and tia ettecteons uoreri i the af-roune
etsnese uRrsumiice tas arrest of CAi*W as ocomrring in Vor auer 2} aera
Pofenanes 1 fad cirerty fecorted te arrect end Gacowery oF ta car i, tao
achigess ook as bring occurred in Jue })

bo Soy, there ig voarwad interest in tide matter éxe to ths fact ita! -
Referens: © reported LaUBie Folara te Banton dor vat appara to Ye 8 acces!
tour of dsty.

T4stritetiens
Ay

SOF « SE Eat cen are canada eae tn enna shew, 2



earverrersrerd

CONTINUATION OF i
OISPATCH fee Becuet-

A : eae :
So The view of Station Kaxiso are reqeested a0 te Wather tt rould
be fesainie te replay the criginal izciéent indicating the tio between
CASO and LONGT, Zw if the imeldent was net exploited before, it is
the ovizion of Headquarters tat it wold be meful to cite a specifie
CASTRO tle with the deviots befare ho tose over in ‘Cuba, ros @ Reedqwarters
viewpoir:: Ue alleged actios of LIVEEINK/2 in Pnlanting” the card wuld still
sot inyair ths replay of ino original incident.

i
!



FPI DOCUMENT
DATE: 9 AUGUST 1
CLASSIFICATION:

FPI FILE NUMFE!
SUPJECT: LEONOV,

N. S. Leonov

961

NONE GIVEN
NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)
NIKOLAI SERGEEVICH aka’



TS opt OF :

4

4 h

ieeiang SvRD? eae sex ie |
ee 6 LuIco |
I

Tancuaces

Spanish Exc oear

DESCRIPTION

coc cord [eovon oF eves

fatWeR (faclude personality, habite, bobbiew, views, fe.)

Subject's calling card found in address book of Fidel CASTRO Ruz

See old REDCAP sheet from previous tour of duty Nexi 1953-56.

Subj accompanied MIXOYAN entourage to Cuba for the Soviet Exposi~
tion February 1960. :

rome vse pecvsous
980 998 coisas.)



o Dalal
NO 1°

5 aa
z

: °
*: a
2

4

>

°

eZ

in <

3i

INTERPRETER FOR

CASTRO.

OFFICIAL USE

ONLY



CASTRO, FIDEL_ (12) OBE, L3) USSA, SHAKITE HAS
DIPLOMATS 1% FED SQURES SUIRaLAY Seen peer Loy th ‘ce idl

TERPRETER FOR CASTRO.
OFFICIAL USE OMY



ars ae ae ee a I
y Par BF exo a

pobshyr 196

Kordea Clty

tintin Sr Ficun eine cece

ries

_ Potda
RTI OTH en
Mittant C, cuiasd,
DAGOROUND BATA AND GOmcere

| °. The Anfornation in paragraph one of the attached was tekea from
peveral snall itcas ‘subaitted by LICCOKY.1 since 17 Joly, The
information in paregraph two was taken fron the LIFINS sirlistss

OPTIONAL: Orrnise esi ow MED WOT ad PULLED IM WF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT
DISTRIBUTION

(oRPUCK,
Ore be

be!
‘LAAYE.
3-Files

S3bd474

. ’ ee
aAMeR ASAE CONT PASC SE AT DN PSR N ABE RNR 4 ee

saree eh:


FPI DOCUMENT

DATE: 9 AUGUST 1961

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

FFI FILE NUMPER: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK’

SUPJECT: LEONOVA., VALERIA IVANOVNA aka
Y. I..Leonova



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.”

ROUTING

+ DIRECTOR
} prom « MEXICO CITY

action: WH * : ql
pao. Cl, C1/oPS, FI, F1/:xt 2,/5R 6,/od/1," aD/cl, s/c 2
cop, cific 2

DIR CITE MEXI CUARE ACTING) 8593
REDCAP
1. ACCORDING AIRLISTS FOLL ARRIVALS 31 JULY VIA AIR FRANCE

i 707 NIKOLAI SERGEYEVICH LEONOV AND WIFE VALERIYA IVANOVNA.

“2, REQUEST HOS PROVIDE TRACES £U3JS ACTIVITIES SINCE DEPARTURE
MEXI OCT 1956.
3e “ODENVY ADVISED.

END OF MESSAGE =,

al bau a A lo hg ZZ
fa ewe toe ang

N.Y OTHER THAN THE SSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBTED. Cop te



30 dune 61 x

2608 3,
x
52/6/Bio cards
SERORYEVICH
tsa

8550

1953 to 1460

B21-13 2139



- FFI DOCUMENT

DATE: 17 FEPRUARY. 1960

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FFI FILE NUYFER: 105-83963 (EUREAU)

SUPJECT: SOVIET CULTURAL AND TECHNICAL
EXPOSITION ‘
HAVANA, CUFA !
INTERNAL SECURITY, CUPA



i
. H
. }
i

{ -

t =

Haat :
a7

: - 4 :

itA S free x, | 4
Donn PLP These
j
i

Pas Shreedsre.
£0 City, October 1956" | ——remccer



WH) be fermisn 2
Activities of the Erbassy.

_weistedins will be detetled tn a
“" of the mstetans wntle tn textes,

ML ptt

Ca ren Gurerrents

“sa, On 2 October the sere
Borretery to 76
< with Teextd 1

a Soviet vislérost 3
as te had to att 3 al diner, doer.r, x50

bed asparestly accoruried the Ankassaccr to a :4mo comert
the crevieus ereainze 5 fe :



alow, and reet another'dey with
sat bed to

eoddd net artend, SI
3 MO M2EEST gf restzice

4B eteber won desi ener] prebesly be eee - .
acted eS Esieries of " -- | * Pearce :
Le ind s:elogized fer : :- i
not betry. able or hinfor'a concert ~~” ae ; ok
- that oven. et fpr gis dughter, .

oe Dat AADAISSY agsand hin that sizce esr terets vere fer *
| the Balcony ail tare coxld protatiy exter on the tyo tickets,

Tho secretary of

Gorepoio Exvertor) intomed tae ‘abessy on 8 Octeber that. -

* BSUDe was tote at works, ne debalsy cad bean tring to : .
. Gomtact a! Fobatiy-fer the purpose of sewing Aintoa 5

"Ginn op comerte

6 o 20 Ostoter fared Feee-}ica wis held at the Soviet oe
Bebassy in accor of fic. 2, Comselor of tas Ae
Wrbassy, 089 8. 5 tice on 1? Octcter. 7
& 9 Octoter tne Proteccf Office eeruee
told Vitor ¥,) i Josef.toe - G ve

a!) Bapata of tae :

to xnow if it would
~be pecpible for tre feSassy to give fear invitations 40°
“tho following frivats of Hea, PALTIA tervo (oecteryd ts
ty of Foreten: *
"Sand wifes ‘Dry JroveroF2.TS.and ©

ke Yextean Darhensese
* Sepvice, acd Bis ses rs co.and it volld be
a.good ikea B vite thee G sed th
ware thelr good ffsetay JARED Gol sthds ced not know 3f
> Mantster F. WSC Za weald be
able to acted, bit waitd be
, there, Rae secely
- aloo faved re Foreiga
use he'ves still tn the nozpttad



on es Bertrety
bia vith received an tn
retatetane en 22 Gztober
October they

@B Cerober concert. ,

sag bin on +a
ster bedase of a neeting Wisi tie Poach Peercate
cre” . be

“Director Rodrigo vilm of the?:
122400 noon, *

“We ¢ Oa 16 Cotter the Artassacor ¢:
an idea he cad cf

a vesy roctricted @:

eocretgrics ang their Mites.
that the question of att nding vi

+ dinited tin and the proticols
JAcbassador’ sond cct 4:
. be interested, . fe ant
- Decsase they were invited to a ¢:
~ ‘at "Hellas Artes ant
hearastne

fren “amhie
‘the Exkassy for
coed da the
pote recs x 0 Soviets + tae7 sadd not be
able to atterd due tx the fact taat the wife of Eresident
se egacerents out of tows

22s, The private secretary of GWOSTIA t-S:med ETUET on 2 October”

that ‘WiOST Za had recoived tre Act asseior!s aaritation to the
comert.on 22 Octeber, tut aad toc) cen of tom and would not
be atle to attend, Ee asked'th.t the tinkets be clvea tc his sane

ex Lstin Acerteca Dicdecit

23 xtth (Or) Gariea Lec
at tre Sarvian GQumeeliary



may as they

fenis of eg @ dipcotatic coms 1f

& fa 1 a October Bolivian 4.

: eat J WCU ard wives to'2:
* on behalf of the Soviet a Lissaccr ag a farrvell to AE, .
“However, 228 wae leaving ona trip tat ¢x ard could not

ert of Soviet pianist ia.

at Bolles artes., On 4 Octeder Karel,
Uszatton ret Wik CEIKASCT. | PISIO: :

Wives accerted inrititions to the farevel2.
AKASOY etven’es 10 O-

Attaciey invited 3+

XK te a ‘sal recital witch t
Were to give ot toe TGR,

"Ue fERAy Onl October B:
NX Liocomreotg assistict to (25

vet oie
arfenzerents to Fistt (fnu)*
BIDE of Cee ect ston

ts believed

the luncheon. On 20 October
a@comert of Soviet singer

“SECRET. Be 4 [- “p93 °



memes

On 1: Ostoter tre sovict Entassy
co da Petren would not be :
0 of :

f the Ivonosian ~~ :
toe prentero of

etang that sie wuld. 7

mia TS, ROLILALOV, and * nd

«4liness.
oe Grrge ecntazted tn
«pone. Indonost:

send inv:tct tons to
Pirst’seqretary Vict

tng Rasstan acl
- wt "26 October tite Inconestin Caxrye ard Bees
luneh. ty tne Soviet

wife of the French

f . ae

a:

scoters of te Yusos
Bre dtaffairs, a
0 Fe, fay ‘

ca ee On 1 Occoter the Fintster he Israelt . - a
++ Uegation received the seviet <tassador ‘atgt: encellory, : 2 o

2 arpointrent for
jer tn the month, cut the -
to Fanana, @l Salvador, and Guatsnala,

pad aeaceeae aieraneatd

ld not attend a rece, tion ty th
between § and 10 Ceteder,

they should watt until tie Secretary
guested that-jemins tie deere
Petober, but he wis rot sure, oecause tne
Seerctary was eftoa out ef “Agen cn caseetion tourss uia.nd
consulted with Cenantante ©6100 and sald tray voold lot 6

knew Later scout the date at +: ers



QTRGS ©

+ ©, On Cotcber an unid
unsucgesszully ettinrteli to contact th

Dy A Gres of
in of © Cet: Rewer,
Ble pe Erav, a:

Ftp eet tegetier ia

welatives tt4r
‘umemat tonal

PF. On. 19 October tazor :
‘ofisetals ef tie Mefense Qerartcent 1:
Gn 25 Onyoter

X
PSkecre (soe =.

5 professor iaced: al forma, wid
d received a re-ty fron 3K
had recetved a copy of the tac'elor's ce-t:
- lt ehtfe Tre Bley tore iin that LNT wis ro
. - Mexted and that the my Cope-2 wild te recetrin, t!

E “7 fines dg: : i

i
i
t

2
4



jrnks
on Octover

ested to Save Sze in a Few'romtha, but -y
a th eA ati t

hee

wacli eost ~ serereuieaeee
esiler 43 tae wife pe + i

feted an tnvitetion fra.
arty at t6 Seviet: Mbass” on
: ¢ ‘Cetobers (Corents 3. 52553 4s ken tobe rro-Corrunt st.)

"yn 23 octeter(ory chs xe
China atte ptod t>

5-8. 0119 bcteder Jo.
hud Jock. £
ithe: Heed:
‘about @ Prazili.

| repetriated fron
+ he ntgat be tie ray
Co” ptadied existenetact:
Seat cadet: of

nrolled in the - *
3832 tae taesis nad -
y vere working on it and -

a Jose nyf a: “Ma of ONCE
sn on 19 Getcbor “to ascents: e ¥9 of the nactzine
. _Goommist, bt at ts betieved tote | 5 auaet
Adentical wits iat dents ko :
 eonnected with a
Pie. de varado
4s frequatly tn

Tain, S07 articles
Sovict news ascncys



‘ seieh sugzested the a:
. people wit tre tire
RTERA. (Corrente

« Sfiene Ud. wdzun crac:
- 5986 Ince Disz® (Do you nave’ ary r:
noe it Yor you, -exteo vaduta
AGVURA and KOLuYa.0¥ cave been

+ inizratery natters.
1 NY
of et AROdToSST Bradley.art lev i

* +"to neet for lunca
Bonevhere otnor t:

+) couples, ete., there, .
“rerlted tnst the would

tn the 24 Lov:

 — MUJESSI Brealey as @
by Peso RIVA

gat” Yaurles le SYA ws tage
OE ee ee 3053) =

P6, (ni) fino esntacted
* that they get, toretne:
fie meet tast afternoon. *:

Lake on 29
a caat anda er

pee

*- OFfice (ace 2h:
“6 On 30 Octebar’ Sergio’

+ contact ZASMEVT
FASHMEVEE! (sce

ites (cm) SO lejte cont
Of the Comieréi-d Office en benalf at ise,
Bogonolets serun, -

” On 20 Getcber inSrihey
* aotong?or, indicating | tat



“SEGRE

“Se Carlos LARA
‘a visa to tre |

&! On 30 Oc!

Se Turty
1, on debalf of

pat ‘3
nis wife, wore invited
party berin clven on
@ rortrait AIVRA nad
t Avenida’ dz los .
Fa2Qe07 indtected ne st22

‘edaress cards. vuon ne
forsents kink 18

of

fuentes 629, Jardizes a:

vo contucted ctesYesacei of the As
- Mactonal de Livortauores y kz-erted res de 1: Pepuhticn Joxieana, T
« (| Isarel la Gutoliea 38, ant inveived' that tee. a Lassador would

* Atke te postzer

7e_One luis jag
“on 26 October.

—

eae

ner teeer el ae
= ig October neters oF the Soviet Extassy were tn conpect | wate
drs) toresdefhe ickyO Se a tne

& om be octcber abet af
from 11-91-74, Un:dad te:

* the note for re:
telernone

a, Hsta Mravalte 2rd, nd also under Oxts
Fard Eniefiios at toe sane sddres’. ) . .

* a1s> on 22 October 2:

eee



Wes "Fazorted to te tn vebacras at
Jeo City on the 2¢the,

Cl, and wifes and

j TERIES OF 17 Cotcber as YA 2

atta ond tured Caine teat
on 23 Octeber
+ by fear 355.

Sovte: Giplomat ie caries jour! Crary,

OT, the wife’or Sedyod S cretery
faa. section e the Soviet

. a,clanteste-% affair
+ be Rikolagg fn, suber
tavd atoll

@ On 42 Octocer Vitulir.
yessage for one (ina)

“S



and be nad acned fer one excrs
withiout taxes,
one in Hexicos

* on Jo October cone-ntre data on visas fer texizwn
going to the Usck,” Tey ware rat ec Up a ist (of visa.
regulations) for Soasases and ESusstese

-eould Rate water
Tae Lardy “Lea
_ om the, the (led ss
* BL On 19 detober te Soviet Cesreretad Crises moved te 6
2 Fartens oA

thést was to be a seston %
Corrriniest ons ni Snr aS ¥e3t

- of. "Tne Future of Stvtl Aviat
data on Soviet coverctal

on 23 Scteber AohT exis
Foreisa Office ax! rz:
persons ad net!
‘ant wore, stoxt:
obstructing pussae to
Sa LiciG tf



yen

F" Dietritetics: - = Ege Q Ka : ia
poo bpecartet 4 yy 2 Stir) onatiy a mas F Set [04

Nera :
;7_Bouree. Semen LEPAT/LDERICE References:
Sasa “operaticnad Date, and Consentes ’ ‘|

= here
- lange Soviet Eabas: a Mexico Ci
i Bopteston 1956 ails 7)

CHEAPER
Ceo



REPORT NO.” am2038*

» SUBJECT: sdctilettios of the Sortet Ibias DATE oF WFO: 1-30 Seyt 2956 Gs
Yaxtco City, Septenter 1956, ae ieee :

con : : ee  OATE Aequineo: 1-30 Sezt. 1956
H ‘DATE oF AEPORT: 7 Sovecker 3956

t

H

i

t

!

}

:

2 So RoaSoL scrES Bi rzaeos i
“the folowing information on ‘the activities of ‘the’! Soviet Ertassy in fe |
'

'

!

i

:

i

H

rc

;

-Fexico was developed during Serterber 1756, Inforzatipa on Soviet : ze
comercial activities 19 deteiled in « scrarate qemerciel report. 2

“ph pewume +. . a :
<8, Belotions with Yoxtcan. a

z
#2. On 12 Septenber
. " Anwited Soviet_Anbessagor an SUA
& luntheon to be held on 12 Segterber in honor of eran
Fras, Fresydent of Costa Rica,visiting in Yexite.’ boris :
ek ELAS, Firat Storetery, inforred (fru) :
ERI andraie of tne Protocol Division that’ he vould accept
the invitation to the luncheon for FEVERS, bat that a would
attend alone as his wife was in Hoscov. NY

2/7 On 12 Septender Rafsel/FusNil, forrerly af the local United i te
‘ations Office of Information, tharked Mikhail Frolovich
IGOEASOY for the use af the typewriter, and asked wnat the
- "“Bussian delegates had thought of the Geolocy Concress. 7
aiice  GAPRASOV indicated that they thought it "azgnificent.® .
. * FUSONT also Snforned CFLRKASGY that on Friday: evenings we bs
Septenber at 6100 p.i wall dij being neld at bis :
For an ereinee® aived Bduardg Gia of Pecexy (can) :
~~ TA Fojas, and sone other engineers yto nelped organize
the Congress, and trat he wuld like to invite Cee
Sos ali the man who accompanied hin the last tings &

® : ‘

1-58 eeanious aomnons may ve vee.



Be, KAZANTSSY inforred the Oficina de 2a Conision Econonica para la
orice Latina (5ZPAL) on 13 Septerder that the Ankassacer wold”
‘be urable to attend ti receptien ‘that day, but ie GEST

2, Would ovae tn Bis plac

“ \ThevAchéssadorte request for an aviterce with the Poxtean Foreten
Miniater was postpored until 12100 a.m, Tuesday of the following
“+ week, 1B Septerber, watch 4s the usual reception day.

Se On 19 Septerder Caries PON del Valle, Chief of Protocol, informed
Mikolay Sergeyeric:/izziG¥, Secretury to the Adassador, that he
Ay would be enable to eccert énbaseador KULAZHEKOW's invitation to
. inser on 27 Seztexber becaupe of a proviows engegenent with the
_* Eouadorean dnbessadore

6. On 20 Sertesber Boris 4, KAZASTSZY, First Socretary, discussed
with Cristobalfians of CSPAL a. ing of the Economic “ormission
achedaled to taxe plece in La Par, olivia at the beginning of

i: Paiste 29572 Ko definite date has been set, but LATA estimated it would
: . bly be held in Yay of the folloving years Since ZA was -
evirg ths eity on Honday, 24 Seztenber, for a twoeweek vacation,

he conld rat accost LAZATSCVs invitation to luneny but prenised
. to call bim on returning to Mexico City,

25 Soptenber KAZAISEY indicated he was sending a gift to Delfin
JSaNGG2 Juaroz, & loser, of the International Affairs Office of
Seguro Sockad (Sogial Security).

8. . Also on 25 Septesber KAZANTSEV tentatively arriaged a lemheon
date for Thursday, 27 Septenber, with Eduardo WZHAN and (fru)
GARCIA Bojas to thark both of then, Jn the nane of the
y : -° + for WD the attention they bad paid to the Soviet delegation to
- _ the Geological Conference,

EM Riemefasoryan Dis of te Teeten Katte seis ne
. i his wife Pat
. prrgsenies sy, PCS who expected tobe out of
+ | tem free Seturday untti Tuesday or Hodneadays suggested @ later
2 date. Arrangemests were then mide for Thursday, 4 October, af
8530 pom, at POSDZNZIG's home, Pirules 136, “OSENZWEIO
+ to sead FOP directions for reeching his home, since it was @
oD little enrtidunt to find,

: ab, socal Toroten Hans Se a :
oe ene



srrecersnte wore nate for LGINTSY to nnet with Eoriarde
FEES Yorales of the Direezizn
Ministry Pross Ssction) en 29 Se:

sbassadcr had prerioualy expieased a deine
1 ~~ that’ +
SMtexbsP POT rade acrangesn: e for CENMASOY to oe /.
the Baitign dcbassadaret-ine0 Gone at the Haitian Exbansys
“PALOV “also nade sinilar Guatenalany te
Denintean, and Costa Rican icbasties, £a attonpt to osntdst eee
“the Honduran Charge d'affaires wag unsuccessful at that thn,
but ane intrent vas mide Later tn-the Wook,
sry of the Feruvien
7 Sopterber concerning
: question addressed to the -
President ef the Chacber of Dorutics and a note of Sovict opinion
« on the Sues question. Since Pera docs mot-have idipleatio
relations:vdth the Soviet Exton, YOiiZS could not send thest
notes to his country, retira they to FOTOV- ,

.& 2 Seghesber KAZKUTSEY contested HazoZ:AVARRO Bolandi, First
Sezretary. of the Costa Kiem tcbassj, who, said he-had atteapl
ach KAZANTSEY about. a certain matter, for President FIGUERSS
beaTeoda kin tnatsns would cave an o;portyaity to ‘see the Russian
. dsbazsitor both at dimer et the Foreign er staat day and at
- the reception i the evenizg.

| aN Ca i7 Septecber The secretary of the Rearaguan eSismaer mate

“arrangenente’ through Wikolef Loxcy, SEet
Beta sry te tap, dasestacyes fob eStart Be 8190 ee

teapted on 29 -Sesteaber to arrange & necting wis
CyOCKO Batros, Fizvt Secretary of the Ouatenalen.
Bebarly = GHOCANO azpeared Lesitant to comit hinself to a
10 date, and finally ‘asked LZATSZ7 to call hin on the
MAZANTSEY svernd to ignore G:OGaSO's disinterest in the .

ce Oy 29 Sertenbor LZOSO7 loft « meas age at the Beuidoreun Eebasay,
+ eaying that dnbassador MULAL-EN(OV wished to invite the
Be aatsranal piace oore aLecT TIT AAMT
, Be definite plans ware mace.

. SaCRer



ees

fron 7120 to 9100 pone on tho exe day, and ce would 2:
_ attend both functions,

+ eerenony tarot, and arrive @ east Late for the Soviet din rs

"of the Ox

“opportunity to eve each other at tho Sovict Rubasay,

chad sent to AGUILIN, Thy latter put off a prozosed neeting with

2, spyotnteents vere arranged between GISRLASOY ant Bodriel PIsTOM,
Misisier of the Ceeeh lesntions for 3 and 10 Segtenbere a

“m oe Sesterber beanie fiers, “Bitache of the Czech lezation, :

egaither loohid I

On 20 Sertenbor the Argentine Anbassador attexpted to-ccntact
RULES who wea bury at the tire with the liorwostan Goerzé~ *
dtatfaires, -He wished to know the tine ef tre Soviet dizcer on

@ Seztexder as the Voresuolen Ktascy was bavirg w cenceny

‘The Soviet invits

on 21 Sectanbor the focretexy of the Oubsa Anhassador informe
bert Aekseyevic ATVLYSV, Attacae, thst the had just talked:
to the Oban achasfador who was 121, and vould like to postpone
thoir lancheon date for that day util Thursdzy or Friday of tne
foliszing week. They decided on Friday, 22 Sertecber ent
(37 said that the Soviet ébassador vould 3 also like to invite
wife of the Oudan Acbassador to a mottonericture six owing that
jane day, Aftor checking with the. é-dassador arranzerents were
nade for 7130 p.m, Friday, re The ‘Cuban achassador
Sod ns wiles und Franstecepooer eee Cotane Second Secretary.
Exbassy, would attends onan
Plens were made for WTSBY and BOING [2 of the Cuban Eabassy,
to reat for lunch on Kednesday, 26 Septexder. However, Kae
later cancelied the date upon learning that they would have an

Qa 25 Septerber KAZAYISEV talked to Franctsco AJJILAR, Comselor
ef tha Salvadoran Enbassy, concerning sous rgcords which FAK

“RAQKTSST, suggesting that he contect hin the following wots

3

n Doriahor.e, scrtarve.of sxe Sorat
BLAZK, Czech Cult
+ Uitieers for a wliéy-ball eee tote held 5 Seine, -

“2 at the Balnsario Olinpico.

asrangenente to stop ty the Soviet EcSasay on“IU-Septesber :
to discuss some motion pictures, Althourh the Soviets had pm .
‘wpecial repre: aces Rotion ‘Rectarees MUESS was told that
rich

rs at

soy Dantlovic penser



he Croch, itentste'? *LSI0RA and his wifo vere expected at the Sovict:
sy at 1160 poms on 19 Septenber,

i 22 Sostesber a nexber of the Czech Legation informed Mariya
: ee Soviet oxzloyee, that Minister PISTORA sccepted the
invitation to dinrar at the Soviet chbassy. On fhe sane diy”

‘Se arrasged to confer with Lev litkolayeviclZK07,. Ung
retary concernirg the fiesta which was to Ye held ut ‘the
Pa restdence, Arores $23, on 29 Sopterber. further
suai Riis indicated that sone forty Soviets were expected to
attend the party. ‘i :

1, bo 00 eae Septenber an azpointnant was set up for Karel IS TARY,
Sounsslor of the Coen Leg: atdons to visit the Soviet Bxbassador .
‘hat dare ap

2s The Caech Tegation contacted the Soviet Exbassy on 29 Sopterber
to ask Af they‘had a truck or pick-up that eould'te used to;

_: + transport # ping-pong table fron the Ceech Legaticn to the

Hamre dd . Ministerts residence for the party that evening. At first PANOV -

eet “| 07 replied that they did net have such © vehicle, but later offered

j + > te pick up the table for them in their "truck.® fe

i

© photos he had sent her, and indicated that
ghe anf her husband sere planning to have a dinner at her hone
for ‘the people, including G/ER“ASOY, vho had“beon tozether in
Aguascalientes, (This probably refers to the group who attended :
une otias the Grape Fair in dguascalientes in August.) |

~ a,” mie Indonesian Charge dt Affaires accepted an invitation toa -
potion pictare shoving at the Soviot Enbasay for 8 Septe: “er.

De On 2h Sopterber a worn fron the Association of Yiplonats advised
+ GLOTOY, KAZANTS2¥, POPOV, and ROHA:OY that the association would
Zo 7 + moet at 1130 pom ‘on 17 Septenber at the Restaurant 1-2-3, GLOTOV
Suiformed her that all vould probably attend, and that KXUMESEY = +
+ would Likes a receipt for nis association duca,

+ hg Arrangenente vere nade for Abassedor KULAZIRKOT to receive
eae poe Taranls Minister a& 12100 on 27 Serteabers ad the Norwegian :
Cv Gaarge d!affatres at 11145 on 28 Septenbar.



Sd~ KULAZHDIXOY, CeS®KASOV, and FOPOY and their vives were invited
- ,t0 attend g recestion on Priday, 23 Septerber at the lebanese
~ "Legation in horer of the Lebanese Arbassador to Washington, D.C.,
+ who wes Passing through Mexico. The Soviet Charge dlatfaires:
also, eecepted én invitation for dinner at the Lebanese legation
00,29 Eapterber at 6100 pyre . :

“6, pp 39.5 ite schan ROOT nade arrercerenta to esti oalor) outtiero
ittee of the Organization of

fa at lal who had rec been hone to Argentina, AOMAOV a

- Banticned that ho had also agent three months aay fron Vexico

on vacat, ‘in the Soviet Union.

+ % FelicodstsRi (ph) of the British Enbassy contacted CiZRXASOV on

39 Septender concerning plans for a luncheon ani ame table tennis
Gare on Saturday, 22 Sopterter at 1100 pens Sime she could only
seat ten persons and there would be five fron the British embassy,
Bho would like to invite five of the Soviets. ‘hey decided on

the Ambassador, C.icRKASCV, AKSZIO7 end his vife, and GLOTOY ant
his wife. However, since that added up to too many guests,
CAaFKASOV agreed to let her know exactly the following day, and
sided that eince he played table tennis biddy, he would serve as, _
referees

8. - Oa 22 Soptondor J. Kf Gonju of the Indian Bebasay consratulated

. KA2ANTSSV on his tion (see section on Personnel) and asked. .

* aboirt the chart. waich the Soviet geologist delegates aad .

- distributed at the cocktail party at the Esbassy, Part of the

chart received ty the Indians was missing and they vould like
enother copy. KAZAVTSEV said that all tut. six or eignt of the
Gelegates had returned and the rest were visiting in Yucatane He ,
would try to got-ancther copy, but if he could not, be was sure
the Indian delegates could get it ‘through the Soviet delegate at
Yow Delhi, : on

otart KFraaT0, Charge dtatfaires of the Finnish Legation and bi
Wife, accepted an invitation to a Feception at the Soviet Bnbasay
on 27 Soptenbers 1

Ua Institute Merteano Bellaspartes .” eee eaeeeeeees
Ss Ga 22 Sopt carer
Vaadinir MRIASIUKSVIGI, Second Sars et Pp

ity

apap



thn’ Cultural officas to @ cocktatl
Fu ages es acti tes that same
cAESRA de la Fuonte sho ws
Jeaving for Europe, "SiiC-E2 apologized for not having beea
able to notify then sooner, bat tated that he had been sicks
He informed KaSiUAEVIGH that Jec/FawalOWskI, “ultural Atzacce —*
ofthe Polish lection, was goifs to attend and that he~
that At would be very interesting forithe people from
“the Soviet-Sxzassy tos speak with the people that wore going to.
be there, HASHVéSVIGI Prontacd he would do eyersthing possible
to be there, ? ri

3 ‘Sptecber 511022 Arriola ¢ aes to MaSTUKSVI! for

+ Rot having core that corning ent said he had beon with
“KOLAGAKOT the night before. MASYUCVIGH yas aware of this
cand daid errangencnts had been race. :8ANCAS2 Anguired sbout _
sone “pictures, but KOLOQaKOV knew nothing about then and
was abavine next doy for San Inte Potosi, so KaSYUKEVICH
‘wold, talk to him etout™ a dators P

“aid Ciasteai anda, Institute. for Outurer Interenange)

{CEALOY ‘contacted tha XIQR-on 25. Siptenber and told Texas.
‘VEZ Yorado that it would not be necessary {or the Institute”
to send over an operator and projector as they had been able
a aE a Bag ft a how,

edad de Ouerrerense
tea ate eae

bis state of,

‘the {4lna, were not

Ignacio f-ARe2 Rodflen, prontront ‘Postioan leftist “in odieation

+ enddrtfstic cireles, informed KOLGMANOY on 7 Septenber that
ba bad received at the Conte del Trece a letter fron the

Federation or Union, and would Itke to talk:

ato decouse it was related to a.plan
‘which they hed already taken up at the Exbassy about Mexican,
‘eultural relations. sition of Mexican paintinge would
‘be ready to leave China arcund the end of hovenber and they
‘Bust decide shether at would retur to Haxico, er whether .

USeCRET |



UGREG 6

i i thoy chowld take advantage of the invitetisa wt
-.., Soviet painters had mde for 1957. The Sovist
Ecald not receive the exhitition this year be

: - of space and other expositicns being presen
| Andicated that they would -2ike to have tee e:
go to tho Soviet Union, and ke world like to

~ KOLANLAZOW and tho Anbassador colcernirg

Dy HASUNZ called EATVALEY on ? Septerbor, and told hin that

> the comittes of the Frente Kacicnal as artes Flzsticas, |

of which he 4s a mecber, had received a letter fron the

: Union de artes Flasticas in the USSR and he would like to
+ |. ' tale with the dcbassador concerning it, He was-told to

- «1  teke the matter up-with the Cultural attacre first, Later

Perera eee es arrongenents vore nite for MARES to‘see tre &Sascador at
: 20800 asm. on Thursday, 23 Soptesber, KARWCES wished to

° * bring all the coruttes with hin, because of the 1x ortance

__Sf the matter, but ves told to bring Jurt ene etter versone

: Betton retro . :

1A Cantu (of previous record) Apinartet ERSYKEVIE
to ascertain 4f he had any photocrarhs of tre fla “Viva

. + Mexico.® MASYUKEVIGI replied negatively, but tone ut they
75 o> did have a photognaph of *Sorgio® and hewoald look for a copys

Ga 15 Septesbor HniVSYEV conferred with Mariq/ClTZT to seo af
ho had received the new Soviet filn3, CaLisT s2id thoy hed

» received the: following:’*Las DaraB; & short led*lienxentos
Wistericos. del Krerdin®; "Gl Gallito de la Cresta de Oro";

£ short, "antilope de Oro®s *Kashtantat; and *la Sega of which
‘they had 8 previous coy. later the sane day a zan fron

18 office contacted BOLSLANOY to vee if he exu2d come! |

ty/the fim, "Cerilla ueca,"uhich was to be used. for i

‘ eS Bindteato de Cinenatocrafistas °

‘who had requested it.

See See ae a ee eerie

Hse Destro:

5 mea :
& September SX: CE Arrtotafacked MASTREVIGH 1f Juan
had to atk authorisation to put out publicity on the
ballets MASYUKEVIGi said he enly had to make sonefarrancenent |
: _ ‘Wat the Sovict Enbassy #0' 0s to be in agreenent about the .
7 : ., PAbLserty, but he believed they cauld publish vist tyey wanted,

be _ FO\aSTARGN conturned to Juan TOLEDO an 19 Sapteer viat they
ad previously

paid, and stated that they were g:;rorting nis
rte ‘TOUSDO said that 1t a8 only a matter of consultation

SECRET



i re) ire

because trap ataso had told hin that they usually asked
for tke opinion of the srbassies of each ecuntry to te certain
that no country would object. Soviet ozinton was positive,

- to gE by one day and greet TOLEDO tn persone -
eet \aewns :
e. dove MARLE2 offisto inforred MASTCYEVI that’ the
article on the Russian bellet hed been publtsned, | Secret
Ce Soxint Ins " : ,

+ 1 During the month of Seztexber RonorioZ'ATZOS Mendes, of Privedi 7

; Goreral Jesus 4 Flores 3, Colonia del Goservatorio, D.F., called’
the Sovist Brbassy and requested that they send kis copy of the
_balletin to his new ie eauttcaeumtiandan? Seeeee

2 0 28 Soptenbor Sslorod KAiAN, muste critic code contacted
s the Exbassy to ascertain cow he could obtain a cory of the bufletin
which carried an article avout tae Pissisn pianist, Yevge: Lun
KiuaN gave bis address'ast Tribuna Isreolite, Bolivar Hee
e550 Die :
3. fe ao CACTPO called the Enbassy te give thea a chanzeiof

~ °° address for railing his bulletins Higuel dé Cervantes Saavedra 547,
Solonie a rigectons (CASTPO 4e°a meaber of the Spanich Peace

Fan unidentified wonan contested the Soviet

as 3 Septenbe:
, - 4 an attenpt to locate some paphlets on Hangary, She. was: rs
eferred to the Soviet Cultural attache. te
Miso on} Septenber en unidentifted nan called the Eubassy, stating
. ho was interested incevteining literature on the Social ty
‘Ler of the USSA, Be vas told to contact Katvey Petrovic IOTOY,

Fresentative of International Pook in Mexico, =~

50; Srta) (fnu), Covarrubias of Pemex, Pale
eread SAF sbi thet Detar peda ve
lckical samples to the Exbasay for! ae
4J2TAS250V “(phonetic ), and she wanted to be sure Shey hail
Proper persons, as the gateran to whom she had given thes
spoke very Little Spanien. dhe also stated tat she had aft a ssall
. Dox containing @ silver iten and Maxican centepiece she was
to ZULOTINA es a renecbrance of Mexico, (Sra) Maria lutea’
tet of Paleontolozy of Penex, had asked her to check op
these things. would stop ty the Babssay around 3100 pe. to check ”
- further, as she lived near tye B :

, ‘SECRET

ee
2
Sly

sn



Gepnii : Figo 20
Res Go 28 Sopterber MASKUEVI! talked to ee RI Toro
ple + and Eis Wife and apologited for the piss brozea fy teeter

enild whem they wore at the rob bores Ee eatd ba hed
He _. Sone cifts for then, perfines fron escory and vas only cvaiting
"7" gp eécasion to give thea to then, KRTUeZ told TEI
© that he had Aig Aighter, AST rEVICE had thoucht 42 lost and
: “| bonght anothers | EOZRIGE ened taat he hed beea in -
A Vergerus end’ had seen ak2ic7 trore #9 also had spoken with
, Mberto ESITRU, cro-Comuist artiet, concerning tae
possibility of going out to the conta on Suxtay,
MASYTEEVIA thought it an excellent tana a

Certain Carlos ae Beatle of th Second

fee Ary Staff inforzes, Saved

i
i

aOV on 2 Septender that Cartaiz) Vistair F:

‘txalayevic,: z
ge Soret Hilseary fotstie off ty bad browcst thea @ 1isc
‘tecanicolor roves f¥c: s a,

Be was arranged that KALI we

sending the following pictures which top had chose "Circo |

+ 7 Ruso,®” "los Virtuosos cei Zillet, Rim," "Cerilla Surea,*
a SBomeo y Julieta,® - "De;crte Sovietim 7," ani “Vuelo ala

- im On 5 Septexber KALZiis oontated the office atest the

: stating that Usey could not mad thea all at onc
Bet thie he weed bring ty "los Virtucos ce Balist Riso® and

+ _*Houso y dalteta* when they were rea |. |

vo
2.t Raval’ Lt} Jesusf220 Reguero cancelid 8 luncheot
"swith RECZOY od & Septerber because Githe illness of his’
danghter. (Field Coment: FAl0.u ho ‘ined ‘the Mexican
ea 1h September 1939, was proioted to Tee J-f- 20 15 By ~
‘ Served a3 an assistant st Jetty Officers fcsoal tn 195»,
bi + gad carrently to en aide to{fise TiAl,
rad. of the “Kat

+3. mE Septecber EULOGY contacted Consmiste Kfonso CASTLAS "
2.) Gomes ond asked vben they vere going to Sheer Mexicm maics®
“Aerangenonta wore nade vo get tocetar at 6109 pra. ea

22 Septonber at EEUZOv'e homs', Botixen sent greetings to

otherte felts ‘ ia
ms Deantdovicy"ZTKOY, Ay: 0, tallied to”
ot at the Second Se2tin ap the tov ey
ved to the cereray of daltring of flags to the: Rival
Mexico an checked on the atresss :



sere Page 12
ecbey ICSHATN attenpted to make arrancenents for
“ad 2 rio} ccyier Yalzi¢a to visit Grigori Kornsyerich _
ek Sais Me at Woo latter's hone, However,
Guaynas early the next moming and
yould not i ey wail January. ZOSRIWZ expressed the. hope
‘that HIGCHIS would £2111 be in Mexico when be returned’ 60 -
; they sould sone their ‘risndahtps®

“600 2 Sortecter fajot) igrer awrsnr (Gr prevtzes rocord) Lett
* work with TROSINOV fe KIC T-ORZTS and the Military Attache tnat
+e wuld be pleased to tive then attend a luncheon at “Jardines -
“. Qa Podrezal® on Friday, 1+ Soptexber.to colobrate the
Anduguration of his ezestrian school,” He also invited TROFDOT
and told hin that the Lceaiter epdhasthceonshasit = atvate
a? farthest pointe

Oa 13. Se; Aecber REITOY inforned asst Holt, doting

"Bee under Ci200, that panel had not rece Sy
wikis: nate the Intependence pape BALTAAZ later

“eontéeted OSCILI to’ sey thet the Defense Sp recne had sent

* out Unvitstions to four officers in the Naval Attach office,

‘but they had obviously teen nisleid, & duplicate would ce sent
to ,ROSG:IS, but in case it was _ received in tine ROSGHIN

being curt, Later KALI.Zi called. ier]

9: et Cescpetah the
(grandee \oona te Somtgcted soa ons _
Corina (ph), vhon be described ss a, very sxall mane

ROSGIIN knew to whoa he was referring, NUUAZ has aaked SANDOVAL

to convey bis thanks to 205TH, stating thet the injections.

had acnarvelous effect, ani that his wife sould require further

Anjections in four or f2m-ronths, Be said hé would make ancther
for sora st thai/tine, and MISCIIN pronized to order five

wore expoules for Decexber.’ FOSG:IN alap.expressed his pleasire ~

at the recovery of Comandante ZETDU and’ sent greelings to Z52TtA

and SANDOVAL, (Field Comments - The Soviets arpearjextrecsly ”

Gah porate MUiaND sectars Ob te ere atts surpassing all

Gtforts. ot courtesy with other officials in the Hextean ,
+ Sovermnent, " This my'possibly be attributed to better
i+ indoctrination of the Seval attecnats staft.)

on-19 ee ee ee
=. +, attaches Association meeting to be held on 21 Soptenber in
* the Restaarant Los Montejos, Insurgentes 675, after checking,
pur advised tat te folloving wuld attenis MIKDOHTS,



wx Ads wife, MAKOVDI and wife, RatIZOV and vite, BiKOV
and wife, and CLPANCTe ite wi

rot certsin about CPs

Wifey vho had & one-roxth ald baby at hone,”

dx epoointrent was rade for HIKOPOTS to se8 SA DCTaL at
32100 on 24 Sortenter, . LIKIPORITS also wanted to see Corandante
0RDZ00 but the latter had mt yet returned fron Tansulipas,

2d. On.2h Septenber KaLLiIN informed’ Ricardo Rw‘0S Flores, ‘then

Anvy 0.2, of the props

on 29 Septerder.
porsens,

cal of the ébassador *for this neeting®
05 Flores serced to snfom the eppropriate:

on 2% fcterber ROSGIL! took a message for ASIZGY eS

Josusy2A20 Reguero of Conision Insvectora had to go ou
town find could not meet. with RsiilZOV that daye

On 28 Septerber Yurly Alekseyevich CuLLWWOV talked to Col.
RaDS Flores and asked if | ae Toray SaiCnSZ Hernander

YEP conare to the rece; t:

1 Exbassy the following days

AuCOZ had left for Toten end Tenancinge, and Cols
JSOBKLIO Quintero, Qiel of Sack, Air Forces would
Posty 1 a6 his wife ES «In all, four persers with
RAEOS

Vives would attend and SACikZ withgut his wife

Mores renticned that(Col.) Kosendo#SPARZA arias would be taking
hip place on the first of Jamarye/ and asied if they would .
Like for hin"to invite 2sPaPLA also. “Howgver, GiZLPAOV
apperenty ad not understand, and they decided only env.
those mentioned previauslye fae

29 Sertenber HOST!D! contacted [ts-Bigue) LOSKDA of the
~ Seoazd Sogtion of the Kavy and asked wiy they bodnI> gent
. for ary motion pictures. LOSADA asmwered that the projector
Bad beon out of order for about @ month, and was being rized

FOSCEIN sald that they had come new pictures,
should let then know when they wanted sone,



a. de On & Sapte: . calling fron the Sindicato ds”
: Tratafadores do Frodiceion Cinexstocrafica de la Ri, Seczion
eee ++ +, de dstores y Adartadores (Sindicate of Votion Picture Wo-kers :
} ” J ef Yaxteo, Section of Authors and Adapters), attenpted to '
contact CicFKASOZ, ~ ae

oo “on 19 Soptexbor aay eae rrotorinist Journalist, ond :
_ WASEULETICA nald 0 friendly convareations FASH-IEVIEA, ‘smo
. 2 | had been néaning.to call her, but had hed a great doal’of die
work, indicated that his wife had seen Hosa in the Rogis. *
ee Bosa rentioned "thet she was writing an erticle on a place
pao she had visited and was afraid the dinensions were wrong . €
because aio had two different sets of data, KASYLKEVICI .
+ |.’ “aatd he coctd not help her, Kosa invited hin out to eat,
apd he indicated ke would eal). her cary the following weck
to set, tho tines

a 1 Det dean f2saio, Spartsh Cormuinist, contacted KASYUKEVIGH on .
; Sinan 2? Sopterter, and said tiat he would like to see’hin for a :
ie Le Just a few nimtes, MASYUKEVIGY who appeared glad to hear Heer
Pesca "1 fren bin, stated that be had to go out for ten mimtes, but .

i 7 «that Af REIKO wented to cone ty tn about twonty aimites,
Hetiesed be wold be dacke : Ca eeeuaeers

= On 3 Seginber (fmu)MOUTBS y= gS
contacted finst Secretary LevpGIUZO¥, who asked if
he had something jey could get t¢cether for lunch the
folowing day. MONTES rephied that he'wanted to invite
_ BECXOW for 5 Septenber, and said he would go by the Bxbassy
° for big However, on the fifth, ZHUKOV suggested meeting at-
_ @ Bare 0.13 Soptenber MONTES contacted ZE-KOV and explained
be was unable to call nin on the. day they had agreed upon,
for he had been out of town and had just returned three days
Bee Arranceronts wore nade to meet at, the Enbassy at 10100
Peved ‘the following day and Qunch together afterward, (MdTs3"
punber, 21-96-07, was listed in the 1956 Mexico City
leshone directery under the Hotel Apartazentos Dolores,
Scabrerercs 9.) On 27 Septecter Wills? talked to ZHUKOV
. Bnd indicated that he had not been able to do some work, as
Be hed been very busy, JOUTES suggested they have coffes
‘y together, end ZUKOVs ‘he would phone hia about the hours”

SECRET

~



5 epee eee WH.2058
igiceut : . | Page 1

© On & Septerber ons Hrs (frm) ESCA and

2a Til of the Military Attacte'e office discussed
__. the nattér of the bcoks which her hesband wanted to know atouty
#°" because’ he had to have some tound, and needed to know the

: quatity of which JEZIIN planed to diszeses Sie asxed

y+) 7% DRULHINDN to call her on the following day to let thea know,

because they vere leaving on the llth. She added that her

husband has few books bound and thase are for the Sidarurgica

(Stool works). T.e following day Irs. ESCAE contacted

if DW DIN who informed her he hed only tiked to one

that he bold bin be would talk with nis friends, ‘He

séen hin yet because they wore all busy attending the corgress.
Krs, ESOLZ gave hin the following muber to uso to coxtect
hera 32-92-57. This naber belongs to a woran who lives, in
front of her, and she can be phoned trere at any hour. (The

: 395 6 ephone director lista this n=wer in the mane of

RCIA Galva, Faviiiagigeds 108-304, D.F.

a = & 22 Soptender SorgighiG7ELD,
* of previous record, canceled an azpofntrent, tobe is
ay with FASYUAEVIGI and "ikolay*, because screth:ng urgent
had com up. On 27 Soptezber he unsuccessfully a
. contact AKSdOV, The sano day he chatted with MASIUKE
. Who greeted hin with pleasure, calling nin "the disazreared
"ene." NOVSLO szologized, saying he had had a groat deal of
work and adding that he wanted to issue thea an Anvitetion for
* today at 6100 pin, EASTYKLVICH replied that he could accert,
+ but Micolas had gone out, and it vould ve better to make the,
date for the following day. He would notify Nicolas.

fe ma Soptenbor KAZAITSSY contected Genaro/PARERO Cheeay

: Wwian Corrunist st, and arranced for en appointzsnt

Fer Bir ices 25 Septerbor, CARGHO ouggested they ‘moot! at the
sam place where they had been with *Paco* (#ranoLsco HakTUC

e 20 Vega) the day before, E as

& tascaLdaneone Gontigtar : 7
» dores’ JaREZ adviss fn 13 Sopteriier ‘that they vorid be

hese at bik nonp that Gay from 2400 pene one LOGY
caYéed to cone if fe had tins.

desk fo him ooncemirg an  teeiry about, requirerents Tor
afecoiving a dottorates, MURILLO was not ing :



Le 'On 29 Septerbor Hucas Kaatnau Kogan" of previous ‘recone
ia wnszccéssfully attasxtéd to contact KOLA AKOV, and left a
wostage to cal bia at the doyersa baad

A “Gn 29 Sopteshor ROMLOY received a néeasge thet GaclJeustazna. -
- wan pleased to accept the invitation to luncneon en 25 Septenbar
Poa the Rermantiay uel
y fe 20 Sortecber one Pa ILA called the Eebassy concerning
. Reasons. He was Noid hedoed the \ossarie wore’, eiven at
* the Institute, i: . id ee

lee reed Sopterber °Paco® and ‘Lino, husband of Consusto(im) ‘of
the Propaganda Offigg, contacted Cénsuelo to determine ‘tae
‘2 address pf Santisco/4LVahel, who lives in the sana place as
Pr ” Martin, iHESIAS, Consuelo offered to agk LilcS1AS who’ was in
the issy7. but Paco did not want to bother hin,. and Lino =
said they eanld check yith IGLZS1AS' wife,.

is On 27 Stenbor Consuel@ unsuccessfully “attenpted to Lesiendalll
See Be oe je Smee oe PASIUREVIG!.

Wie cts am res,

12s Hemato’ Rosas, Rrceradoros do darpizes acteurs,
-D.Fe, were contacted during the month of Septerber conterning
and wextne floors.

er Josar: WALA ordered tuo Dine of snk fea:
Yeatro. (me Ehopemunber 23-89-20 4s listed in the
nee DS? under BAZ ay. “Gol. ‘dol
DFS ss ad cuca

Pallares at the Cardfodocy. Institute on Hondays

:
+95» Be eppotntadng wil aad tor feet to eolelety
. 8 21100 sane

as te oa23 Bie Josef:na ZAVALA ordered’ 505000 sheots wee

‘free one (fm, . ian, wane

* On 20 Sétenber STEVIE tried to contact one Teodaro ESTRADA
ef the Mexico dito Service, 13-12-02, This‘nunber is listed
‘stnder Mexico Auto Service, S.d., Atenas y 4, Gonzalez, DF.

* be: TROPIOV mado arrangensate’ to 0 Dry Jose Felix
6. 20 Sep fanberg 61-6, D.F elo} :

a ca mh Septeabir PASIUKEVICH calle: ee (at 11-62-59,
Mésted unter the rane of Franotscg{Licl Dias, Puebla wd) at

p Cen rise:



8.

B208 :
pe

“Consuttorio Yedico, and asked shen toey could cone ty 20 the
doctor could eso his wife, APAUII informed thea that the a
naw office vas on Pusble, MASITES=d asked atout Ofelia, and
« APQUT told hin that sne-hed gone to Kew Yerk on @ scholarships |
KASISVIG vas afraid they weld bie a problea bringing the
ehild then, but AFASIJ said he eoul? recommend a friend of *
Ofelia, who was dedicated to ortocoaia, Arrangesents were
“wade for an appoint=onte

“A recrosentative of Jose R.-V-Nesira y Cis,, landere y Coss
RR, Veracruz, forwarded information to the Eatéssy concerning

* ron things for then that had arrived in porte
1, The hone address of Vasiliy calle ‘wun eatsblished

"2.
»
ve

Se

&

a8 Tacaxbaro 4a6, DiCHOWs wife rece: had an ozeration.

z +
Yatvey Fotrovies/ HOTT of tho Grreretad ONep serves an the
“-Tepresentativo fire Gung seaty stg

Soviet aurters Gonnadi S007 and Koxstant in, W held
“reservations for a f1izht to Kew York on 5 Septerbery
Separting Hoxie City at 6100 ae.

HUAZIMOY and KAZANTS:Y returned to Yoxico! fron the Soviet
Union on 6 Septenber.

Toe folloving Soviet Rbassy personal plamred to depart Hexice
ty Fail on 17 Octoberr C-ZPAASOV, LEGHOY dnd wifes LARD,
wife ani two children, They held reservations on the Queen
Eltsebsth which was scheduled to leave Hew York for Sou!
on 24 October, and on the Yolotor, scheduled to leave London

Planned to be tn leningred on 5 Novenbers

vag told on 22 Septeaber that’ Forts
od fron furet Secretary to Counelor oF

retreat rarunsX it at be was cow working in
MUNOZ invited ~

the address = ae 2

an at: ‘Sra iA as ecdodsled to take piace’ea ~
Sas ves wAs'to be an the Roepstal Jocated ab



7

20.
pe

7

WKASOY inforned BOLS!ALOV on 27 Sopterber that ‘Ee had retarned
frea his trip and would be in town for one more day, then
would leave at 8:00 a.m. by air the day after for lew York, _
and fron phere on to Paris and Moscow.

Ason waf born to DRUZEDIINA on 28 Septezbere’
KISZIOV was rerortd to be in Veracrud daring Septenbery
according to (fmf KODRINEZ Toro wao saw hin theres

‘equdncnoeSeerghetnatanaomeiinisiSNREROEDN


(Heeb ean dea caa a Ns
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY “a

us cn

‘Tats material contains information afecting the Mettrsal Defenae of te Unitis otetée within the meaning of Ube Bsplocage Laws, THe
4, UAC. Boca 762 and TH. the transmalasion or rereiaticn of which in any manus? to an Unsutborised perwon is probibited by law. ‘

SEC-R-ET 2 ae
x & ae
counter Hexi.co/USSR _ : RePORT.NO. C$ -LT-10962, a
SUBJECT Photographs of Soviet DATE den. 2: November’
Diplomatic Personne) oe :
3 * REQUIREMENT
NO RD '
7 REFERENCES:
pag OF 1 October 1956
nae Mexico, Mexico City ;
BAF so. 1 October 1956 n
SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

‘SOURCE:

Appraisal of Content: Documentary. : en

en eet me toe =»

|
|
|
H
| ise NO. PAGES. i
|
i
|
|
|.
|

Available from CIA Graphics Register are photographs of the following former
members, of the Soviet Enbassy in Mexico City, who left Mexico on.17 October 1956:

a. Mikhail Frolovich Cherkasov, Counselor of Embassy, born ‘on 16 Septerber 1909
at Moscow. Cherkasov arrived in Mexico with his ‘wife, Aleksandra: Cherkasova,
and their minor son on 27 September 1952. -His wife and son left Mexico on
2 July 1956. :

b. Nikolai Dementyevich Larin, chauffeur, born on 15 January 1922 at Riazan; and
his wife Praskovia Artemovna Larina, born on 30 November 1923 at Riazan; and
their ninor children, Aleksandr and Irina, The Larins arrived in Mexico on

_ 11 Septexber 1953.

“e. Nikolai Sergeyevich Leonov, administrative employee, born on 22 August 1923
at Ryazan; and his wife, Valeriya Ivanovna Leonova, born on 30 April 1928 at
_ Moscow, The Leonovs arrived in Mexico on ll July 1953.

Distribution of Attachments:
OCR Graphics Register (Retention)



FEI DOCUMENT

DATE: 31 OCTOPER 1956

CLASSIFICATION: ‘NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: MOVEMENT OF SOVIET NATIONALS,
LEONOV, NICOLAI SERGEVICH

FPI FILE NUMBER: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)



FPI DOCUMENT

DATE: 25 OCTOPER 1956

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

FPI FILE NUMFER: NONE GIVEN ( NEW YORK)

SUPJECT: MOVEMENT OF SOVIET NATIONALS
LEONOVA, YALERIA IVANOVNA



crs

io¥, Wikolay Sereaverioh AL

Tabias o€ Cavetonre
sa :

-
strative Fuployee, Embaas:

] BATE OF -aaivat.

CouPLentow

DATE OF orate

22 August 1926

Srarmreace

Ryazan_

Fame

Wifes Valeriya Ivanovna, born 28 April 1928 Ryazan

‘DecuNENTATION
Service PP 10724 issued 29 Ootober 1952
Wife's 11507 issued 28 February 1953

PREVIOUS CABEER AND EOUCATION pe in ans
Prior January 1950; One Hikolay Alekseyevich LEDNOV, mechanic, arrived
Indie. ‘Description: 5°65",' fair complexion,



(AEDIPPERs Hogative —

Ps Saeed arrived fos from Kosooe.
_| 6/58)—, 5

e258 Jas 288s Subject and wife met in Vera Crus by Aleksandr
ELYAKOY (MMA $70 7, 65)~ : ;



Oe a
O°" Mhteg, vaD
Sr nom’ '*” . Chief of Station, Mexico .:
f SPECIFIC Nikolay Sergeyevich LEONOV,
- >. . Secretary to Ambassador, \ ”

i: Soviet Embassy, Mexico
REF: MEXI 137, MEK 230 ;
“ACTION REQUIRED: Mone Pesca

1, AU, S, transit visa has been issued for subject and his wife,
Valeriya Ivanovna LARINA. Subject plans to depart Mexico by rail aa
on 17 October 1956, entering the United States. through the Port of — .
Taredo, Subject will depart the United Stated on 2h October 1956
on the "Queen Elisabeth" through the Port of N ew York.

ze “ho sets of photostatic copies of subject | ey and of
the accompanying completed questionnaire which’ was furnisle d to
‘the Bubasay visa section are enclosed. With these are incinded ~
6 additional photos of subject. Photostats, identical in nuuber,
are furnished of the same items for subject's wife.

SOURCE: Visa Section
QOENVY


On G02 54,56

routine

“eDAS
pare 9 OCT 56°
~ DIRECTOR
rmou ; MEXICO CITY

ROUTINE

“TOs DIR Soe CITES MEXE 234 !
REE MEX! 137 (IN a7164 ) : {

U8. TRAKSIT VISAS ASSUED 1 ocr TO. FOLLOWING Sov cade

aan FROLOVICH 1 ; CHERKASOV, COUNSELOR;
IKOLAY LEONOV, EMPLOYEE AND WIFE, VALERIAS

NIKOLAY LARIN, EMPLOYEE AND D WIFE, PRASKOVIA, CHILDREN

ALEKBANDR "AND “1R1AS eee

“2, GROUP REPARTING MEX! 17 oct BY ait irene u U.S. VIA

LAREDO; DEPARTING NEW. YORK 24 OCT ON QUEEN ELIZABETH. SOURCE:

ISA SECTION, EMBASSY; DOC. DISSEM:



DEPARTMENT OF STATE INCOMING TELEGRAM
. - FROM MEXICO CITY TO SECRETARY OF STATE
. DATE: 1 OCTOPER 1956
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
* DEPARTMENT OF STATE FILE NUMPER:
SUMPER 566, OCTOPER L
‘‘k.SUBJECT: NONE GIVEN



TEONOV, Nikolai Sergeyevich

i 4 VEXI-~639 Personal calling card of subject found in address book of
E 27 Jun 56 Fidel Alejandro CASTRO Ruz, Cuban: revolutionary rho mus
u # arrested by Hexiean police on 21 Jun 56,  (LIVESTOCK~3; B-Doc)

USArna MexCity At time of his arrest Cuban revolutianary Fidel CASTRO had in
MEX C-20 wallet personal card of Nicolas L. LYONOV, adminis officer
28 Jun 56 in Soviet Jnbassy and Secretary to Soviet Embassadore

10-2752 Translator for Soviet delegates to Eigith Internat ‘1 Radi cheer
5 Sep 56 Congress at Mexico City, 28 hed _
No dissem ‘ ii
i Tele 566 Embassy today issued C-3 visas tor
t AcExb MexCity Likhail CHERKASOV, b. Hoscow, 16 Sep 1909, Counselor
o- 1 Oct 560: Nicolai Sergevich LEONOV, b. Russia 22 Aug 1928, Clerk
Seas : = , Valeria Ivanovna LEONOVA, be Russia, 30 Apr 1928
i . : Nicolai Dexentievich LARIN, :. Riazan, 15 Jan 22, Clerk
7 Praskovia Artenovna LARINA, b. Riazan 30 Kov 1923
- minor children AlexandreLARIN and Irina LARIUA cease
Departing Mexico 17 Oct, by train via LAREDO; dep NYC 2h oct 56
via QUEEN ELIZABETH. .

ext 232 a
ue 5 oct 56) (Sane into. as 0 sore)
o'r 2

0 rat



ODCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

“al Fie no. | 201-{24630

3. WiaPaTew om ADuACE DOr. syeRDL 6D. Tar

ate
HMMA-04994 { 4 Aug 1956

ero —— DAVE OF wats [oo avmLuayiON

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION ~
2. CROSS FEFEMRED TO Twis FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO
201-1:

132139 AL FILE WD,

(PERTINENT INFORMAT (ON

ia bate PROCESSED

THIS REFERS TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT HELD IN OG/SIS.
, TS#-145923

(This document contains no information pertaining to kthe

investigation of the assassination of President

John F. Kennedy.)



var an effort do standardize spellings of tunes of jarscnael astigad”
+ to the Soviet Bxbassy, Maxico, and to confora with the trarsliteraticn
_ fable exployed ty IVEARK, ‘the following spellings are beizg provided.
Inacamch 8 gay of the nanes hove not been secs, verificatica throc
Pronouficiation and their spelling has been mado by Faith 8, GAIZS wile |
on OY here, In the future, reporta concerning losal Soviet Izbassy
sip. carry the epellings ere provided herein.

Ooorgly (er ‘ardy) °
Mei Peoaai'n Ivenérich = eat <p Seagiete dase)

ier “ante Ortgryeraa Pagers

: Md Denys ANOVICH » *
folay Domidovich mes fer hfe
“wifes Yelsiya Wlovma

‘oe erly Aleks mare oaaete main Atta.
Naleriya)

ae “ tes Hoe.



= secker

coe ne peoer
Ji Vasiliy Hikhay)
i Ytef Osiina H. Fitenet .
. Wyecbenlar > :
PRUZIDIH, Aotaante 1) ; a ‘wsistary Aeache oftics
"_f, tdfor Irina BUD y :
AG = Andrey ee ates

5 Viktor Kikolayerich = Firet Seorotery |
Sifer Mavdiye Kithay’ Geeroun
st, cong Turky and

GMDAREY; Ivan Yofinovieh = ezployse, Celtared Office”
wifes Mpncaila 1 Ivara, re UNDA ELUA

" Hin, Nastity Secyoaorias stasis,
wifor Volontingf re /p/a

oe
“SE TIONN, Matrey Potroric i“
Aan poe a
pp, Senet Tger ent Aaksintt :
- Mesa, ots sie» eyoo/guard

Lyudsila Era

ray

.

Vladiode tier, = oxplayeo, HilS tary ces) aa

KALININA
. Terge

“Borie Meksandrerich «
Varvara Andrezeraa VE KA ease

Boris Pablerieh 2 Attade iz i. ea
i er Bes Lidiya ey ee :

Horr, sere Ree mind Sgcretary
wife: Valdotina Ivano Keres
an -Malina

Anatoliy Goorpiyorich + bxbanes; (ca Lesre 4a 0ssa)°
Mater Yekatarina Troorma(in pee Kuacarnk Kove



“ade ln:
oo Bixolay Dysyanorich © chunttgr |:
whfos i erga hotcgeen 2a KU
ia ont Paul
,, dant Foe ssn
toa Entolay Seceerertch = Se dabascador
i. fer Yaleriya nce ar

TuKovknj Viadieir § Geyerich = Military Attane
MALOILIN A

WASTURETIGH, Vladinir Myskorich «
wifes Lyudaile Kirtllovr: mast t es Teas

: ‘os
Race, Libert Aiacseyerten = (ersjeust = sttccnet) |
wifor Yelisavota Zaknaroran rm AT Y E yeva

YATEVSEIY, Aoxsey Pant boric} . ste, Comercial Officer”
: Berra tora Iemorneint ayevsKr ya

TROY Ves: rare piers a
vitor Fei aR OLA MeO8,

ale :
ain mains

* seas * Sorda(ant Sqlleved ta te Bere).

» Anatelly Ivanerigh « explayee, waitary Attache office
Wife: Yorgentye Fu niasvA :

on on tyam

}» Yergorsy K
‘sifor Vora Dai
eae

ana aeean
Yoo vi Viaaintr Hisiarorta ame se. .



.

Pesaro, Aikelay Havreyeyith « atploci’, ava Asace oftice,
wifes Yells cena FEM Zev
sont
aus farise -

ROSICEDE, wskolay I.” rexpleyey, Haval: antaee otties |
wifes Larisa £¢s MINA :

ROSOTL, Vera. Visdintromna « reiow
Mom, 1 Alekoondi® Sergeyorics a
+, Sifer Lilye Fitoleyens pen iaiek
Yoo goat Xergenty  - E :
SIUTAXTH, Vasiliy Fecozorich lore
reifet AlotaEs oksanére Bi ERGSBE ya

KOLOT, Uatiate Haxolagerich = = spt. walstary Attaco - i

Yocirar, Hikolay Trmorjeh = exployee, » mastery Atudie etrtce,
wo wife Lytle xf ef 1a :

Bone
i dant Rug i
ROFISCT vate or biker «
wifey: by Mein
Fa te Beye
‘VaR,  Eoaitantin Andrayordch = sete
cer baat nat i
Kg Yotor Rasarorich «

mye
Ksoatentinore
Margarita

2, Mie 1et-pouprises @ roster: of pereomel Knowi to be present at the”
Soviet estadlishnent as of riod Jane 1936. and includes positions which ue
| te Bold. etitieers

theese



le 2 fabissy rear ‘i ")
2» Havana
2 Files -

“ Subgeen Arrest of Sédel CASTRO Rus, Cubgp Exile *
7 fn Mexico ae



* REPORT NO.” - metaaéLo
[DATE OF INFO: 22 dune 1356:

DATE AcQuiReD- 2k
eae OF REPORT; 23 dane 1956.

‘aFrested 21 Jone 1956 by’ the Hexiéan Federal Security Police as
tespected plotter azainst the gevernzent ‘of Cuba, vas an address
Gernnet st aiatetiyis



Ks tector
ere aes

Tawar £.%

Zerot: a spon

CALISTILA, Miguel
ictoria 84, dpto 1. Preaie 818
28/Trata(?) -

UBOTS, Elta (altos) -
8 no. $118,Apto 4. *
“Jpn. « $5 Fartanto, Habeas Cube |

CARRERA, Josb (pare Toads Eslando},
1397 Webster

‘ Tenaneingo 8, Montes
«Ge Sear 7 oa Escytie «
14-11-17) 4
(Col, Polanco & Col. en
Prove ay,



=, ay ora, 5
toncla y Zalterag
o Altantra, vane.'
Apt mR. Mad oe
38-14-96":
Sain Panuel +, 5 *
26-42-17

ixcy + es
Ate nas 31. Aiew. er
ts

teres S12 .
a re intente) apte @. aca D> E
if de72-84 :

Istdoro te rome /
LIA; Gloria

Cefazo po, $2

-[€ds Perairinie
eres

2695277

gTERZ, Atberté
Ponciano Arriego
ae aan. ree

YECE, Marta Caber$a
San Freo, 712,(21%9)14 yas
bo mee Habana. Cah

-Fcasa teens
Trad, 55-57-49



rie

“Gnzm,
Cpe! mer. RE

PCSELL, (Qiica) :
apto 2 - :
11-90-55,

OSUYA, Maria Laisa,
|Re"Satrdn 18, ante Sse
Witreto

21-07-45 : : o PBaxctez, Fao, anay
; : ceeeeetesrensttttea : » |asfa Gtaskn no, 6 1470. £4
“Yaptoah, fasuiee. BF:

PgUEE RO, 4507
teirhart, Rosende f2l:e30
janao, BO-969)

98 2 ot
goternacién 12-95-96 ~
boties 20-53-53 :



CONFIDESIAL

WALES, Enrique on
aad oY a
a aes
as Se an CAUESy Edcarts Reyes
. .pPtarde 42; es3. Saleas
a :

to
Ccatyftencs . (races 0-4.

afensa "
8 de Sotelo Cantén
Militar

00 de Radio y WW *.
“CO, forerto fe, Dire: # .
Sey ISL y Dry my 3.
rato Ltt. Dey Bo stu DP (ates Pada Jynin) -..
les 1345-01, 86-07-73. * |p Fexteo 45 #4 7.

erers fo), Papy, Ho," €a1 -
AZr$1-%, “Lsesziso

+ Jessen: Sema er aie = ae
av. Jzarez Yo. 119-53 vt 7
[21-87-25 y 21-$5u42. 4 SETS, SRSEQhad 265)
erieay D-Ys > tateenscte) I .
Gayest Alfonso Le{cersate) -
Sutge 731 oF, Risco, Minne F

22 (cara) - -

22



39
eforca y Elba Sime .
63-15

talle n "FO, 2007, e y'a2
dpto,
Fecal Spi

coed 5g eosin us ay
: : Ee 3

ES, EstheAFina,
20 For, no, 55.
_ VY aates t



20 May 12551 kodolfo Kix, cellad

books and mtorial you reyuettad (re

said he would tuke ths booke to NESW the uszt day. HEIVG for neny yours
aotive in the Mexican Viplcntie Service, ut one tire being Charge of ths

* Mexican Legation ip tiarron, Foland, Kuw about 76 end ineetive in Goverrmont,
but does write articles fob ths newspaper Exnslotor! 2313S -B Lea l5)e

cn hid

i

6 Jamury 19661 The daughter of Gsnoral Heriberto data spoke with Subject

“at the Soviet Embassy suying sho had becn told thet ha was the porsun who

* gould inform her cf wnon she should cone by to pick up translations cf tho
“olincial cocursute” rolative to herseif and har futher, “Sudjoot said they ©

“were having sone trouble cetting: the doctenta trancleted because of the

medical terms, but said they should be ready in about five days (HLA 4200).

2 Fobrusry 1956: Subject called Velia Jara de NIET),, daughter of Ganoral JARA,
and told her that the translations of hor futher's tlinioal history had been
wade from Russian into Spanish, Mra. Nii70 caid she would visit the Hebassy
the next day and ask LEONOV for the rateriale (HPA 4410).

“86 February 19561 Ons Same) RAMOS contacted Subject who acts as secretary to
Boviet Anbagendor, Mexico. knlWS told LIOMV “ie are not going to nect at xy

house this afternoon, but et 8:160's (which is at) Insurgentes 425-52 at the usw)

‘hour. Subject replied thut he thought he could got to the meeting at 1900

hours and sent greetings “to ths boys FALDS said wae have sone books we wams -

to order through Leowv" (12a 4536). ae

2 March 19662 Samuol RAIDS loft a missage for sat ge ‘that. Me he hae ‘tine I
hope ho will. cons to ny house tomay" (ENA 4600),

i :
A | % Marob 19561 Samuel BAWS called -Exbasey and-acked’ for en the peesibility
= saat “Sf staging an international chase match in Usxioo. In this omversation it was
Andicated that RANCS 4a in the academio line of work. . He stated that xx he ess:
“back in ola and that restings could no longer be held in his hoise, . Ee
told LZONOV ®@ tournament featuring e son named "PCHMARD® would bogin
Monday (12 March) and invited Subject to see some of it, LECHUV edid he sould
attend if he had time. BAKOS then asked when he could see” LEDHOV to give him
“@ List of books “wo want". LBDIOV told him to come to the Pabassy at any tins,

. 3 said he would como right away (7204 4600). -

Personal oalling card fouid in address book of
in Kexico, (KEXI 839. 18 35358.

"22-29 daly 1956! Subject sorved as translator for Bighth Interuations
‘Radtology Congress Soviet delegates (BE 1752).  °

LV october 19864 Subject and wife requested U.S, transit Sices ‘to leave Kexico
¥ Oot by rail, entering U.8. via leredo; to cepart Wow York 24 Satobor on
(Queen Elisabeth (MEXI 251 IZ 34838 6 Uct 56).



7
i
i
'
i

20h RIG Aa.
ares 26 aI $6

YO = piREcTON

From: WEXICO CITY
som WHS

#0 :. COP, Cr, CH/ors, CI/IC, FI, Ft/ors, rude \
. Lokal op/1)

: _exs_B79_ fun 35356) _- _
“Tor OW + ANFOS HAVA

i mi61) | dake’

DEY RLS >



GRE SECRET Ee ae bey
aus 1za0v

. 49
HE aaa eo «
Personal Dota ; oe ef
Manat Nikolai Serguvevich LEROY ee
Borns 22 Auguct 1923, Ryesen
Arrived in Hexicos 11 July 1953 with wife :
Bocunentst Soviet Service Passport 10724 issued 29 denvary 3 ass i
Title: emloyea
Positions Believed to be sduinistrative, Secretary to the Arbassedor, Possible
Trmelator and interpreter overlepping with the cultural section work
* Resi ence in Moxicos July 53 @ Nov S$: Industria 7l<¢
ve Nov 58 © 7? Suanacatlan &),
Givbaiecee Reaaceavenias at least Feb 54 to.3?.: Cuatla 161-9
cesssiusit Jan §5 to presents Unknown, poesibly in Exbsssy,
possibly et Jumacatlan 71
Wife: Veleriya Ivmovna, niclmene “lera”
. @didrent tons known :
¢ Temguogest Spmish (eooa to excellent)
Ye Other Porvonsl Datas Nikimane "Kolya," ttayeonat

Drives car

" ppsuetan sotivstion

“RONOY resains an cbscure figure ond although wo assure he 1a ompliyed tn the £
administrative section of the Chmeellery, we cannot pinpoint his cuties, He
has identified himself from tine to tine as the secretary te the Anbassader, hea ip onnemvannereii
="~~“been noted taking hie tum as axbassy duty officer end has taken hospital bedside
gard duty. During 1955,before the arrival of the regular administrative . officar ,
Fiadixir lvenovioh ZHUKCY, in Koverber 1953, LSONCY was handling calls. ci:
goods md services but wes probably nerely filling in, bacause of his facility
with the Spanish language, until Z:UKOV's arrival, in December 1954 APARDIOV
asked ono of the guards uisther he had the keys to LECNOV's room in the exbasry,
Since, during that time, wo believe Li:NOV was residing at Industria Tl, it would
e@ppear that LEOXOV hed a private office in the embassy, one which was epparently
bet locked vhen he was auay, One or two other very vague references indicate
he might have somthing to do with commmications vori, Beginning about Hevezber —
1955 LE: NOV began to cerge as an interpreter and trmalator. ie spent a good
deal of tize with the focial Security delogation, with Sovist pianist GILELS md
with Soviet movie directar ALEXSANUROV, each ting appearing as the pried
or trnelater, His recent asscoiation in Yamary 1956 with the daughter of .
CGemmunist General Heriberto JaRA aleo involved translation work, Other more
reeent references make ue begin to wonder now if LE-HOV might. not be connected
- with the Calturel Section, During the last teo mntns.of 1955 he appeared to be
associated in work with RISIUKKVICH, director of the Soviet Embassy information —
tin, In March 1858, when PAPOMV could not keep am eppointaent at University
at the invitation of Hexicen President RUIZ CORTIBES, he esked that: either
‘9 CUNDARBY or POPU keep the appointment, It ig kmown that PAPOROV, GUXDAREY
POO all definitely assigned to the Cultural Section indicating further.
ere eae EUPe ep ‘therefer, classity LAN as,

” pen SECRE T

é

‘LEOHOV,



Wme1524 (9 Apr 58) a i
LECKOV : Hi
page 50 : :

having worked in the advinistrative section util Inte 1956 when his position
began to appear as that of trmelator ani interpretar, parhepe more clearly
associated with the cultural section, Again, however, he nay still be assigned
_% administrative work in the Chancellery which — with the cultural end,

ISQHV's contact with Senne BANOS as dispatched in Hitehe4S56 (19 March 1956) was
_Beported again on 7 Harch 1353 when RAiCS called LECNCY and the two discussed a
cheas tournazmt to which Sovict delegates were apparently to be invited,. When
LEGKCY asked from where RAMOS was calling, he replied froa his home, RAMOS stated
he was now back in class at the University® and'so “we won't be able to meet
at ay house now." RAMOS invited LECT to one of the tournacents tre following
: week and ale made arrangexants to ad subject at the exbasey to give nim the
ig Lot of books "which we {want} ooo"

Unless LEONCY has eorething tc do with consular affairs, we are at a loss to
explain the following UI‘ERICK reference, On 10 Novenber 1955 @ man identifying
, Mnself as “your friend, Col. QONZALBZ" acked LEC\CV f he had found out about
gone matter he had requested, 1+ appeared that LENOV hed forwarded the “request®
to the USSR and that the “exican Acbasvador to the Soviet Unicn was to notify
Cole OCXZALBZ, COPZALEZ sto;ped short after atarting to ask what happened to
that matter, explaining it would be better if . they gc together and tal ked it “
. over, The two erranzed to meet at the acbasay, /t the beginning of tha conversation
GONZALEZ, in recalling to LEONOV's mind who he was, stated,"Bo ware chatting about
this project which I have.to presant to the Presidencia ebcat the uss of the
waters from the Tolusa volemo, Chinantecatl," The Cia, txpcrtadora.e Inportadora
9 Behe (CEIMSA) Had commissioned (CNZALEZ to go to Chihuahua to see some _
Ss reers end therefore hewas not able to contact LECHOV earlier,

Other then the two preceding LIMERICK references, which in thenselves are incon
@lusive, wo have no indication that LECNOV is engaged in RIS activities.

Se ee ee ee ee
° Apt 1956, :

<, Petvate Aativities Activities

During February 1964 LE!WGV vas hospitalized at tha Senatorio alinds where be
a, tndexwent an appendestoay perferned by Dr, Gustave BAZ.

“RLT@OLS reference of Aogust 1954 revealed that forner Soviet Cons) FRIAILOV
and his wife that LECHOV played well (possibly a musical instrument or

@ ball gaze ??), During “arch 1955,after he had errnged a movie or given a
lecture, two of the exbassy wives remsrkod on how good LUCHOY wns (it ie know:

"that La0ROV has taken his turn # giving Political Information Class lectures.)

ioe LEOKOV also appears to enjoy athistics = he plays temis, attends shooting
-matehes, arranges football games with the Crachs, and playe volleyball, He takes
gene sort of lessons, not necessarily Spanish, in the embassy, As for LECNCY's.
feeling about America movies, he was heard to tell one of the Social Security eee
Sea Oe orate



We-1524 (8 Apr 56)

LEDROV

a page 61

is reported by LOTNICK that LOWWVA gives sons sort of instraction to

@anay personnel and although it is not kom just what type of - lessena these : :
: may be, wo venture a cussa that sho toaches Spanish, During Cctober 1065 2

+ : JEOWOVA underwent a very surious operation, lasting two hours, during which the 5

enesthotisation had to be diecontinued because her heart could not take the
straing IZQiOVA returned to work again in Hovembar 1955_

Althousa one vagne reference hinted that LECNOVA may de prognant now, f=re have
been no cliusions to ay childrm ths LECHC¥s might have, When HATVEYBV returned
fren hone leave in tha USSR in Cetobor 1955, while’ LECiGVA was undergoing har an
eporetion, ha mid he had seon LECNOVA's fether but,because of his agesit wuld 5
better that ho mot be told of har eicknoss.

3

is



Chief of Station, Mexico

Operational /LCIMPROVE
@amel RAX03; Renee SAL0O Burgers et el

2, LIMGRICK reported that on 2) February 1956 em RAMOS contacted

| Hikolai 8. LSOHOV, who acts as secretary to tho Soviet Ambassador in Kaxico,

" RAMOS told LEOKOY “We are not gong to meet at my house this afternoon but
vos) @b BAL@'s (whieh is at) Insurgentes h29-51 atthe usual hour." LZ0HOV
replied that he thought he could get to the moeting at 1900 hours and sent
* greetings ‘to the boys.” RAHOS said "we have sane books we want to. order
‘through LEOWOF

e On the face of rity | this conversation aileles to be quite umsual
end attracted the interest of this Station. Furthermore, it is mown that __.....
ini fer years the Soriets have wed the hours between 1900 and 2000 for meeting
@landestine ar umsual contacts in Hexico.

3. The following steps vere taken to ascertain general information en
Binos and *aALger: :

a Station file resard on Semel RIMOS reoulted in no clear ide
, tifications. There is a Samuel RAMOS wo was listed in 1918 ag
: Rector of ‘the School of iat os dt Letters of the University.

pia that the address mentionsd-is occupied
SALGO Burger, allegedly of French
bar dimarts parlor. ‘hie is caifirmed in

CG. Files of this office indicate an ODENVI report that ona Reneo
SAL00 was a menber of the Hungarian club EXUHA in 1951. The files
aleo chow that one Alejaniro BURGER was a member of the club and
- that he and Renee lived at the same address. The file further shows
that one .mires SALGO was'a member of the club and describes him as



kh, Further investigations of the S4L00e will be.
name, together with that of RIH0S, included in our CE suspects list.



“Distribution: ~ :
By copy to: $= = Neacquarters
. “2-Files -

“de Forvarded herewith is the first ran proposed: arias of monthly reports ‘on Soviet
Comercial activities ir Yexico City, Source LIFEA?-has since December 2955 =
89 much more irforzation on this subject than ever defore, that. this

“This ‘tntesen, Feport contains sox0 Ra ele and por:
v. the Soviet comeretal office. in Hexico for begs ‘guidence

*, GERTBAL-AMTELC
CeassiFisecoN

= chaeged te.

“py ana
= Bap



country
” SUBJECT:
lee

DATE ACQUIRED: Saxe
‘ PATE OF REPORT: § March fi

_The phone nusber of’ the‘czmercial office 1s 15~12-€4, The comercial office\vas"
forserly located in the Soviet, Extassyy ain building at Tucubaya 204, Dre to"
expansion of activities, additional personnel, and the resultant need for greater
operating space; .the o: was soved in erik 1355 to its present: address, i

rien

t
Me esr |

- AL Commercials

arkeisinior, Leonid “ganovich, Diplenit-Commeretad Counselor, sinc Seprardor ade,

plonatic Passzor> © 04300 pees

: Foaidence - Celle General Loon 38 Secreto eat cant ee

Seine} enaimeneiie “Phone = 15-12-54 ae
; J AgFLyed Sn-toxien,.2 snipe 3954, accomanted br: wife 2 anara Sexgeyerna -

+ Ciaran in USSR.

SEI; Alekset
Ltd geri

+ Arrived in Hoxieo,.20 "are: ‘1954, accompanied by wife Zoya Tvanomna," ‘and sons.
ladiairy, aged eight caine and arn ar, (4) respebtively,

‘Service passqore. 18051
Residence - Tesaulipas 125? 7
Phone « Hone Kaown +
Arrived in Varacras 25 January 19S, accospanftd by wife Anastasiya and-sons
So Igor, sod Aleksandr, aged eight (8) and four (4) tespectively.”

(CEtrornen), Viktor itolayevich, Reployee-Comercial Oftizes
it Service passport’ :
“Residence



unknown,
Cnet Orginpieict G Vn Petes

AV TORVA, Valentina Ivanoma, Secretary-Typist since Decewber 1954, does not -
_ WoFK full" tine here (believed that edwreial office has a branch in the
Eabasay and trat LO1CWA works thers.

“Tansport = .
w= técansaro 48 :

Arrived in Yexico vay’ 1381, with musta ‘and dasghter” salina so wakoovns
(4usband is Srd Secretary-Cons Consul -

FS Dit Saxin etyoms,. fart tine translator forrray atice May oF

Pessport
2+ Residence «.Suevo+ Laos 150-6 |
2 Phone = 22-55-57 ~
‘Arrived April 1954 with. tiusband and sch serget age mee « (trusdand- fe
Siolonate= 2nd Secretary, Cultural Attache),

wines violin Kuasich, ‘vas Comercial ofticér fro Norster 1949 to a Hovexber
1954, part of the tine under Comercial Comsellor KVDIN, eince ée

furs Aloksot Dantlovich,"wont thnéugh a break-in period in adwinistrative: end

eperational routines fron Yargh 1904, ta Saptenber 1984, vith SAYDILOT still
posinatly'in ehay :

east Wnoald Ivanovich, eppeared in Septeaber. 1364, and Giro Wiat through ry
siaflar breakein period util 24 Novesber 1954, when SUOTIOV left, Froa 2

1984, & eate,, BOLSAAKOY aed been in complete charge of the Coaweresal

ee a

seSeonsterustres ‘xO. cs OF THE COMBRCTAL OFT: lee

.

"Ina main efforts of ‘the Soviet Comerctas Office as svidenced by Sts past and
current activities are es ‘follower.

) A datersined effort to! infSidrate inte Yextean tndastey abd trads, by tho”

ie and izplesentation of transsotions Samay hed a indzstsy



ROP. SECRET

“@ Coordination wth. Rultural c7tice tn th
books, and other propaganda satertal, ard distribe son

¢.

#€>) CUAL ratson of Naxien. a8 poring ard opr wade ir Gentries in Latin
dsoricas ie pate :

TRI wth ‘|
ane T co eae : : ee :
Ta order to attaih econorid objectives in Mexico, the Scviets utilize various

nethods, According tovobservations nate about past and curfent activities, sost
» Of thon Muli uncer two headings, which overlap, , These aren,’ --

¥,, Metse2s oF

» (a) Extensive use of oga ‘pustness contact, ie Soe .

) Cultivation of key people in yartous-orgentaitions vhich can be exsily aed as
propaganda outleta (1.0,, filns and rovspapers) or as nore conventional ~
contacts (banks and custons officials, etce}s

ale GestActs A HwSAZsse = oe fe :
nade by the Soviet Comereias Offices
as to the nature of these contacts,

“set out below isa itstang of the contaz
2. during Docenber 1955, togother with datat
and the transactions made or proposed with

‘BANDERA te a direc! contact of the Sovfet Commercial office.

+ file procufersnt, a5 well as en intermediary in securing Mexican fins fer tho
Bovigts. It 1s known that the Soviets must purchase a.cortain exount of

Mexican £itnsz in to be able to-eold and extibit theirs here, 2X'7E%

wes consulted several ‘tines durirg the ronth of Lecesber 1955, on fils

. eurenont, -On°) becester 1985, MA! ga 3A 2 Personnel), consulrod

BANDERA in reference to having BAY =UA procure d certain fils on tins, oo. --

emarcenisy that'a contract could 20 signed, ° due to BOLSHAYCY's absence on & tris (ess

Roint-4109, pp. 2/84). 6 February 1356), HATEYSEI vished to have tho'c

-Signeid before 1 January 1958." ee :

_""ent20_Dotesber 1955, POLSHAKOY congalted BANDSSA.o8 vietKor ‘the Yexican file
© “S"Radess" could be acquired, BAXIETA explained that Cicox (a fila coxa)
“ qoatrolied this fila, bat arranged @ nesting for SOLSUKOT with tne direcizz
ef Cinox, for ubo on 21 Decentor 1955,
hei

¢ hire 7 Mere,



Ng Sovjat £1) presented in. Yaxteo athing ot custe=s :
erracghg for favorable puolir':4 fc "Soviet files, and ies.
te Soviet iieat.sowiere in Voxico besice ‘ir

= to ora report, {5 the sole oxiititer of

“the capital,
Soviet {413 tn vexteos

warersra\ consulted CALTET about ‘in books which he
nt to the Soviet Export Fila Office, MAYEVSYI mad,
Serlev’ Sryort FAlns oh returning filna which vere co

«Qn 1 Desezbor 1853,
(:aTerSel) wished
Feceived'a ca:

1% Boe LY
head of Cinenateseatt

CALVES of new Soviet fils
he had, had been given tg YAYEVSKI a fow days back, - i"

on 17 Dece-bor 2955, 12 wag ascertained that, BOLSHAKCY had been shown parts “
* of the filns and tities of Soviet pictures, as.revised fdr showing ta Mexico.

It was further ascertained that plens‘were afoot to, inaugurate Soviet fila
 movinge at the "Teatro Ideals “The Teatro Ideal go aileged to have 1600

|
. . _ - 2 h
WNZISKI repeavedly told CLLZET that he vas intersted in obtaining shovirge:
~ gyfer the Soviet filns, *Bamo x, dulieta," an, *Oren Fantita,# co
'On.17 Decesber 1985, KOPOY, ¥ Miutiovich, $ré Secrotary of the Sorist ft

kod ‘SALVE? © ygh MAYEVSKI to, give. certain Fila to the Soviet.
Babess | es 4

“Sea

a Ser oo Bue
Arrangements wove side for POPOV oman, Lnonid Mikhailovieh, “Sid

* Secretary in the Ebasey, to pick vp pore Sting. Asong those obtained were -

“tran Fardlia, Rome. ¥ Julieta," and the “Golden Antelopess. =. +. :

the Soviet Babassy was notified by the Kexicen Covarraan!
that poratsaica had been received for ‘shoving certain filns, bat not for
. SThe Best da the Worlds) .

Sar yaar pip ee mo ds Bat pay,

“Phone = 1287-1 : tere
ager eS
yovanied ublishing ‘and’ bookseLling shop] has.boon nated an fn batlet fer,
Sorecrorqoete “Ite wo maragers, “Jesus4AZCHO and
Party menbers, Over the yerro thay
taady though relatively enall anount of Sdviet qatorial,

In general, contact: batveen the Editorial Popular and the Soviat Cosmretal
Office taxes place Se ‘LAZCANO and vasquez on the.one 0 hankivand T2107 and *



a .
Tt was escorte?-od that in Decesber 1955, the

copies of vo | Yaxin Gorkivs warkey trait tt
Spanien being “Los Sarta Fones* and HL 2

2. Garsuszo (Seat uAZ0) Serres, Juan, *

Tal Manacer of Exportadora De Puplic
Av, Le La Granias 22 wy
+ Phones 27246057

contacted om 16 Decesber 1955, and Terortedy tena”
TF with the electrodes would fave to be pos:

( S's) etckress, Tr

isit-to Memes of tvo Sertet

i egreesit: sal
and to be participating in a. trad azreerext wita tne French
in cotton, EISZTBESS has, been noted in ecmectica with Crech *
Comercial activities i 7

Bh
cowzaisz is a freques\ contact of tne Soviet. Pasay tomerctas aici and
their actual and aan cover a ratner wide ran

"as Rabin ent Papen tt oe fee

- Early in Dececter conzatez™ ana MAYEVSKI disczssed the prospects fcr pesebott

ing Soviet pipe and standard gauge railvay rails into Mexico, It 16 7
‘ed that the market for rails in Mexico vastzt considered to be very
Pedy bat Weel orate beligred they agit be ale to srrecgs sone satan in

i

ont
ee
oe
i

ea cen en TIE

ae brongnt neve, that Ane Matarazto “industoial combine in Braz tad

y bodght wafficient petroleta {from outside the Soviet crbit) to cover its

* needs for four ronths,. but would need rore wan the above tins excire?, “"-
asad ced an estinate onsadott 1-25,000 tons of Soviet peirclem

delivered in about 100, 090 drow brea Beate

Colini as 7 SA ears
, ores a *SeBeet - wus ae
‘OonzALEZ sstorind SCISFANGY that a US Fira nased PAESIIS bk SEEADETE wished
; te know wig, OONZALEZ was selling coliuloss to Brasil, tnd Farther wished to
“Imow source of supply. a

\
ae



ae Fs" gnatean corpary wanted to bey
Serza"ioareiven by Gci2ain2 war.to
Biwieg Ferriss and Sedish

a Large wool pulp company £ :
{that the

ve xe >
Lethe ota
prices ca ¢

CONALEZ Lr.
” interested

reported bx XNAEZ
deal in eezver (12 de’

»
a8 he irri

‘Sah

POREZ was visited twice in recorder’ 308, kd var
“fara aqeipett, 4.



conatelio y i

It ‘te ‘reported that YEA
 eredst hodifieations yita Ta
fact trat otner ousiness

tens fer tho letters of
aval foods

r discussion with the Soviets, . :

Ak pan naned ZELLER aisoshas varie deats urs
anong'then bgings . :

yea) Alkaiines and AleaYotess. ZELLI-ER sought ieforsation‘on estabiishing.|
Qlsatines, It is bedieved that tos deal nay be well a2

ZeLLL.GsH expressed a need“for a.raiofds ar2 for a.s

for this. Jt ie reported that 5 od 1 that either tis

vachine or infcrration on the ruchine had alreacy tern sent, end that

BLLIVGER bad an excelent, nechanie vith General Hiectrie ezperience to :

“ Anstell this sachines : : : is H

Te) Actas: USS? elatnod not to have
letters of Credit for. ‘tras acticns Anvolvicg' ‘Ped Black and Blce Black acide,

2 Badios: ZELLINOER clained to have a sarint f
these not be-inported fully asnenb.ed. The
information on parte, aszerbly, details and
= desirable to inport and aasexdle tre radios
this ZELLISCER Clainad to have a:rarket for

3 on the conditicn that

~€)-Driils ("mspecified type)s It ig resorted. that aon
&@ transaction for ge,200 vorth of ‘drills (ZZLLIL Zz
. sith ZIOMIK, see below, 7

OER vas involwd in i
Feportedly cc:sected , yeas a

ceftainad that ZELLINER hed p
‘used in Mexico, ZMil42R, secording to reports, hed
stated that he cquid ses as much of the nedicin as could be provided

n and intermediary for

ertatned that rost of © .

errad eyes. Accorte |
a types of (eae

epocified) dyes, was caused by tha wat for eLetter of Oredit,. “Direct

_*Holet K dye, for which a Letter of Sredit vas cpered on or. about $0 I
‘1995, was not-sent evidently due tq shertage of sams, it was ToporwNi-thst |
+ the Soviet Commercial Office stated chat, according to & contrsst dated 29

++) Ostoter 1955, all the dyes were plexed and | waiting ehprant fron an wine

ea



dit tad been received”, “+
‘a Letter of Credit erm
co Poor ,*

Lt” port ef exp 4. It was
for certain dyes. 2
“tine tack to Sofis

te Expert, taroséa tia |"

"mets statad that Violet tye had arrived
Ancked inforcatica en sev sv.vas crarced,

| There vas also sci brief information to tre otf that ZLOTHIK had dived
“an order for’ wols.

Other transection

on vateh vaghe information tas beén received werer

12) Dyess Confimaticn received frea fe:

Viowet dyes. :
a) Softens, musiaicy stesccisa & nevspaper-stery that avlatin Anerican courtry” : i
‘Cole:

clained. tre Soviet nien vas’ “offering doliars a that country's

scow on Letter of Credit 16 978 for”

.

‘ ) vs “vague information has been ree deed to the attece that soviet Export eee
"Fila ie interested in the TV marcey tn Vexteo.,

Infornution on certain contacts 1s rather vagus but it vas ascertained thet the >
Soviet Comercial Office had Guxtirgs vith te folioving An Decerber ener tha
exact nature of ‘vaden was not clears.

2 PARCIN,, Franeiseo, a nender of head saa és oe (Part at Yoxtean
joc dal. Security}, ©»

ROTA Vidal, Raul, was contacted by oLsibsca airing - the month of Decerser” 7 t
5, with infor-aticn that certain material vas in retdinezs-for GUCIA, | . eee
Ita not’ been excertained exactly what GARCIA pee oe

Sovigt Comercial -0!


g

ee

<

fpusseeseess ul

(Coeaiy Aw w Boa owes

col bGRET

ie

foc cast Ga Dare —Sh.Ostaber 2055 6
heaped 7 TWO: chief, 62
From Chicf of Station, Vicans 5
— Operstiousl/ EPIC : i.
suauect i ,
‘SPECIFIC Identifications froa S2ccer Katen Fhotegrephs

the Viems Giation oellectisn

tienen 4

was able to cake L3 icmtificstions {roa tis
epllcstiza, coze by mam end pooition, cons culy by fuaction, Ine fou ie
etazces, G3 indicated specifically below, bis ideatificaticas ecre erremaczs,
tat aro rosstholoss forwarded on the sssurption that even this fact ail be of
interest to you. ‘

2 & totel of twenty-one (21) ecparate piotocrephs, c= of tha aerely
esotions ext out of the ortrinal ee azth &9 en ertactrmt to
it

thie ciczatch. Perrors identiticd by| 9 indiested ca thc"

te
- black inked circle around their besdss if 6 cscarate circle to tho gids, cron
. top Arstances ebove tha circle mrrounding thoir heeds, ero tha suete kezed

to the list in Faregreph 3 bales, In the evcat yea have cifsicalty éscirsaring
‘the mauboro inkod in en the front of tha photog, you mxy rofer to ths rover:
elds, ea which you will find tha saze murbera in Crprozirately tho siza post
tions. Ts havo just completed transatenion of all cecatives of tha photos
conted a the ettechsant. Froa these cegativos, it till te

By

for ths erpropriete Bashington files. A3 you cre‘e: r

eystea uscd cn those ncgitivos 19 that. avicod ty tho Toa Fst tretion, eateb
wes responsible for taxing the photcss For ths oa, citiccmt eittase repre
eanted in the attached photes, the following are ths pertincut refermusae

&. Gories 995k: Fell 1951. Kogatives trene-
* wihtted tn ea rama — :

be Saries KR S21 27 Saptarber 1953. Bose
_ Hives transaitted 1n EAVA-1216L, BF Osteber 1955.

©. Sordes NTR 5321 11 onteber cial aanttve an

, transmitted in EAVA-12163, B Ostobor Su.

ees
veTIONg

om 18 BEST OUTATIOOLS

Beacon WSU


«NE GineL aermnaarcesaoin summsineneney menenet

ee ii + EMVAA22223
i fee aera eee Fage Be

@& Series EB 5021 21 April 19h. Bagstives
_ trenszitted in Ei 12k -

Oo Gsricd HA 6311 20 aly 195k.
Mocatives tronsaitted in EIVA-I2ZILU, G Oatoter 195s.

f. Gariea WR 6533 3 Ootobsr 195k. Espa
tives transmittal in Lavi » 3 Cote! 556 |

x The following are Jicontificaticns, tha photo eoxber(e)
from which the idsntifications ware este, ond the! Adantifioation mahars

— Pinte vo. © Tdentification ent Ctaticn Commats
fon

Gy wm 526/8 (toa) fararOT, noting ctor of f TEA botesea tom :
é partare ef ERIVOCIIM ecd

(2) wR 630/2h gore pany as Aoting Chief of 4/0
\ Accounting Bactlons

EPR 526/8

(uy
. @) WR 63/16

EARAHOY, Chief Eagincar
(6) BFR 526/5 KY, Cowles intelligence officer mader OF oomr.
Toments eppereatly f/u, incivic-al mldicg
Faso in none of W. v{neor

LO) Sam seat atexanter potreia came, (a0 sepre~
feoneasaes in dustrice

“(0)” mn 582/8 (tmYlo=coem, Gmeral-Disvcto? of {518 :
Mo FODInicitae :

. 0) “wR 6535/6 (tearfexancm, earber ef GO/i03, Vier |

Comets
fication off ZS OS | (fon) TS 63 Doyo
Chief, Tessa petackoane, CYED, Co Bods.

(20). wR 631/18) cargat FF ritoeyeriek mmaizoy, « Osnirel-Droctar
wR 653/9 ) of (USIA) Biensna~Gebukert I. fe



‘oxntimed)

EE
(a)

(12)

3)
(2h)

as)
an

«=; (28),
qs)
(2)
a

_ ay

Crigizal
Este Fae
ae 653/9

UR 552/5
Kaz, $32/6
BFR O3V/Us
HGR 5862/5

FR 63/28

WE 6/1}
RB 653/17

BFR 653/17 .

WR 6R/16

_ Hm 02/4

HR 653/17
wFR 82/8

tye $82/4

wa magaheut

FR 562/46

)

;

ye

contifiortion end Etition Coma
(dmY yous, doncrol-pirecter of (UIE)
Afer¥i

sereet Vesiizertesfeunsry, omcratpirestor of
(UGTA) d/o EADZL, and his wifes

Petr aAcuco, CMeret A.

(seajfreamiy, Gesmed-rinscter of £2
Berit. ise:

identified this :

officer of ths Austria Group, 123 Rechémvtcra,

Meander peamted reer, boad of the Pinmes
Section, A/0 EAESLe

(raPormso, nesher of the Gomareinl Coto
‘tony 4/0 EXE

Meeandsr Ivenorie UPI, GenaraleDizecter
ef (UGIA) Exomi-Boverde
b

anatoly Kirtlovich]iNUTiD, secen DoputyeCuiot -

TSS, kusteica intorprcter ot ths
Soviet Inforxation Caster, allecdly ea EIS

Gregor Mextatrovieh eo Lt, Secnetary of tho
Faisstion, Utils

(om Tented uN es me: rate i :

Edbolad Conyers SOF, éccistss5 4 ay
end probotly OL) elitccte Corre LT
replaced ¥. IGECCUIO, eff cP ths EO

Lory Gvup, in lottarts cover positions
egamptten that he 40 113, Atersfore,
wes 1



ot are

(25)

(2)

(27) °

(28)
(2)

(9)

iA 562/4

wa 653/3
FB $62/5)
wR 65/3)

BYR 631/14

wR 5b2/t,

lacy vy Eaagene
sickel oea he

Jéantificstion ec4 Btazien Comment.

Ly cenit , AD Ciitcor tee
‘USla Perssanel ica covers (fe (22) corse

Mo. 25 clicirsteds firs tmnt ttes by|
88 ODD707, leter etaamd ts LOO, |

(rea) Kcocmareie, Cotet Bastaberer 6) (CSA)
for &. Gs

Tovgal arontiyeriec RIE, taalris
of en onopecified exvercinates 4) 2/0
TEXTE a8

aregerty Ivenovict PEIRIEY, Cale? of soreeccal,
2/0. EAs

tarps usastorsafiocam, Guts? ef Forceeea},

| WD, colisagis of (fea) CITIES, Ia. 9 aot

Gesm—te this inciviccal is, ¢? coursa, Ira Te

erga Me=seronsef Ey, exber éf the
Prodaation Cactica, 2/0 Kicale

(exact, guitare Refer) Ce
decorrects (sr 2 2 a tecstlesca tht
Ivan IAG ef tho ED Eoxidaturas’

(tea)fVROGATOT, ‘thief Exginesr ef (GIA)
2 (tmofrms ae

Ribas serif, Quiet, Froastion

» Section, 4/0



a

a l SECRET poet

)
a fob gentification end Etetion Comaatg
(38) wR 622/14) (rea{zaratan, pomty vftezonme, cre

WR 651/18) representative fersaed Fae'T trove)

(09) wR seep cercet a fomuems, cosrdtzater of tortet
econonis enterprises in Austria.

(0) © | WR 653/9 HU, Catef, Camorotel Boction, (U2TA) Bleame-
fe Bobukert Ie ~

(a) WB 582/k BU, beotiacper in Boviet imiitary raphe

G2) | mm enne i baie Ieee or repsfecatssie

(a3) ,MPR582/4 MU, Eoviot Csasral-Director of (GZIA) alfra
i Mgocr distillery.

(Wa) wR 592/12 WO, trequeatay esen With Y. I. KIEMATOY, £3
fe 5 officer cilor UIA cour (ef. Ese th ezoto).

. & finss the Vier: Station hes edsqzcte copies of rhotcgrerts ef tis

few tntivicaale of curres: intersst to Views exseg thece 42

gertetly DIA persamel ting of no ferticr interest to cs, :
for Reatqurters use and files. Ho further eorvioing of thas te raqzired toro.

sacasteatet| Gren abip

a

Attachaerter 21 photogrephe

Be <_ be eae oes



jams Se ipratioen faia
rite, ‘Poe: ttie rerbers af

a. 7 % ak aoe
| ew: Jiias way Aa sobtaces he. ‘ales 6 sislowreh of

Pare is a , etriing Pése-blancg hetreon
athad t,. 2. Fis acad older a.

lea ovteds The cety tease foutfas. IGS
* Asceltanesus i foraition fra a0j Babel



“tye a potejte eaterze a toroid stety. of Hirxiet-testates “tostriiss

+ After Crsatlen the are ezzeinted to patistes eoare they exretey

‘ait prerostive ty proachirg Cominten to
SF tenteress, ven one of theoe young pris
a farted, Bis fires step do te co te thew .3
- Pasty secretary eed ack Rug viet ths.Party mieciecs fa the area ere
and bow the prhoetteoald be of assistance tm carrying out. thece Risylent.

6 Acoeentartotbet ellen fe ocenng 8 Aca. of the Commi teat
Party-of the 0338 ainca of the elter priests of ths xsd creretien, —
‘who would tave fought Secrentam, have died off ar have besa persed and
the youncor priests, who have replaced wey bre caxpletely ésninated

| by Cosmatet Party influcace,



ORRCICR CEI Come :
e™~

COUNTRY UFS2/anotris _ pareorsta, (ter 53 ss) he j

WARCT — Saviet Personlitios in USI | NO.OF PAGE re i 4
|

DATE OF IORMATION Up te Decoabor 1954 “REFERENCES: Rt~2805 Vas

PLACE ACQUIRED “Woreany

THIS 1§ UNEVALUATED INFORMATION:

Follovizg sro biographic skatoban of USIA Soviet personalities kava to ccurce. Por
further infereation on ths dutics of these individuals, pze' tho stows refereaced



“Ss; OCCUPATIONAL SPRCIALTY: Accountant

ay POSTEICH: Acting Chief of +p Accounting Section c: A/O Kabel, USIL
3] wes eles ea. | WEL 0. Gig | BUILD) The BAERS Terk BYrO:
2] OFHER PHYSICAL CHARACTZAIOEICS: Thia, sharp nc-e and face

FERSOMAL HISTORY: Married
| EXPLOYVIZNT; WELITORY RECCRD: Worked as Chief Accountant of ths "Asbest® Trust in tho
“\ city of Asceat in ths Urals, USSR, prior to coming tc Austria in February 1954, Source kesw

rotuing of bie allitary record,

PARYY APPILIATIOY; POLTRICAL ORIENTATTO: A CP sester’alusuch not active
| RERARMS: A careerist, subservient to superiors, urprincipled in catters pertaining to vork

BASIS OF THPO: Acquainted through vork fros DATE OF Inyo: Deseaber 1954
Petruary to Deceator 1954.

ARDRGHOV, Ivan Alekeandrovich _ BSOURR 08 Rack:

BOD: 2. 1925
POBe Toko ire

Russian

CCCUPATIONAL SPRCIALITY: Unknown to source

POSITION: General Director of the Osram Plant subordicate to 4/0 Kabel, USIA

BF: ec. 16sea, | WEr 0, 90 hg. BUILD: Stout BAIR: Dark YES: thinwa

OTHE FHYSICAL CHARACTEAISTICS: Kone tat vare outstanding. :
Unknow :

‘ H
PARTY AFPILIATICI; POLIZICAL GAlELBARIGA: An active CP ecatar; he we the eccretery of
ths foviet Party organisation far 4/0 Eabal, USIA.
GRARKS: A otupid individuals tliodly carried out the orders of the Party and bie ecpericre
at work without reflection :

‘OASIS OF DFO: Acquainted through work froa Base oF 701 Decenber 1954
Petrusry 195} to Deceaber 1954 E E



a SUCRET
. s

3] BARB: boss, Wiksail Vastlyevien | *) beanreoa nauk:
{ MATIORALITY: Russian
OCCUPATIONAL SFECTALTY: A commercial spectaliet

aero agnen neat

Door 8. 1915

6031 Unknown 11 'wrurce |

PORITICA: Chief of the Su and Sales Office of 2/0 Fabel, UIA _

BE: c.iOea WE: cto kg. BUNLDs Stort, HAIN: Lignt BYES: Unkoun to
medi. source

OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTIC31 Round “Russian face, He voars glasses vith ata! frasce,

FERSOMPL HISTORY: riorrie:; te gredisted from the Acadeay of Foreign Trade (akedestya
F.: Yeortaey Torgovit)in Moscow La 194t or 1947,

; ERPLOYKEN?; HOLITARY RECORD: Unknovn to wource

i

q

i PARTY APPILIATICN; POLITICAL CATBNTATICH! CP sender; active Comuniet

tinea reer

f

EN pass op repo: Acquainted through vork. ~~ =) DATE OP Div0: Decester 1954

4 wasa: | ussscr, Fedor iki fororich - - BSGREE OR RATE:
Li HAPIORALITY: @:sstan .

coreg teenies BOB + 2905-1910 = >
| OCCUPATIOUAL SPECIALITY: “Rectrteal engineor (Instenor-elektrik)
ROD: Unknown

POSITIGH: Deputy Director and Chief Engineer of 4/0 Fabel, USIA |
EPs 17-176 cm. WEs c. 93 ke. BUILD: Quite stout EAIR: Blond BYES: treo
hae FRYSICAL CHAPACTEAISTIC3: Full face z saeeeee

jFERSGEAL HISTCAY: Married -;
; ‘ z " Ss

‘ i

SPLOT OH? 3 Lesrg jeesd FSCORD: Prior to caning to dustria in March 1954, be worked as Chief sg!
of tie Lqipssst Pepartmant of tha Chief Directorate of Electrical Kachins Guilding, Kinietry = &
Cin rvdaienny S cieaid (Otdal Goor-dovaniya, Glawnego Upravientya Elcztromachino - Stroyeciya, =:
jerercpronyahiennoeti), Kilttary record untnow to ecurce. &:

poked AFP aEPILEAticay POLITICAL cater CP cower, very eotive Commniet 7

2 A wery good enginosr; favs tafore his guperiora in.en effort to Sodened biesalf
furteer. Boss not treat subordinates fairly. : : :

D, RE

18 OF DFO: settee acagn went fea DAES OP DVO: Decendar 1954
March to decanter 1: ¢

APEATURE ann


“IACHNOV, Sergey Nikolayevich | _
WATICHALITY: Russian

1
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: Theetrieel erginoor wok lth
POB: Unknown

; POSITION: General. Director cf Siowens Semukert 1, plant subordinate to 4/0 Kabel, (874
2, WE: oc, £5 kg. BUILD: Thi. BAIR Light ‘BYE3; Unmon
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: None :
*
PERSONAL HISTORY: Unkzows
BRPLOYRENT; HILITARY RECOND: Wao forserly Chief of Personnel Section of 4/0 Ratel out
wast red WM present peeition
j PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL CRIBNTATICH: Not a Party sostor

j REMARKS: Good enginoer, honest, ard & thorough vorker, Was frequently 121 vith sous sort.
of stomen eliment. e

BASIS OF INPO: Acquainted through work BATB.OP DFO; Decesber 1954

es nana: Krevasein0, (fou) |’ BSGRER GA RANE:
HATIOWALITY: Russian ; :

POD: e. 1923.
-} OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: - ae

TPO Uaknove

POSITION: Heater of Production Section of A/O Kabel, USIA

Piet: c. 100m, 9 WE BUILD: Hediua HAIR: ‘thick, red EYES:
{OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: ul Russien face; veere reading glasses

=| FERSONAL HISTORY: Uaknova cece nae

EMPLOYKSH?; HILITARY RECORD: Unimown

PARTY APPILIATIOANs POLITICAL CAIEVPATION: Uninown



SECRET,
“

5 MBE] sLaDKIY, Forgey Vasilyovich DEGRES OR RANK:
PMATIONALITYS i : :

KBr c. 1d 5”
2 OCCUPATYONAL SPECIALTY: M-chanienl engineer (Int werar-aekhaniic)

POBr Unknown
-besnescas General Director of A/O Kael, SIA

FR: 173-175 2. Wh. 05 ag. BUILD: Stout HAIR: Dar. ulond,gyps, Unknown

pertially tald
PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Full fate, Austeian taireut
2 PERSONAL HISTORY: Married :
af

MILITARY RECORD: Frior t- World War I! worked a8 @ piant cirector tn Leningrad.
he-worked in East Geraany 96 director. of a UTIG plant. Cane to Austria in January
or Fevrusry 1954. Fource had no informtion about his siiltary recorc. :

"ARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: CF seater, devoted Costunist to point of
(faraticisa a

3 Very dull person, rough, uncultursd, poorly educated. Speake Russian like « c2untry
suanii, : :

18 OP INFO: © Acquainted trrouh' work from DATR OF TUFO: Deceaper 1954
january of Feuruary - Decercer 194 '

Aleksandrovich DEGRER OR RANE:
ATIONALITY: Russian :
DOB: ¢, 1903.
CUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: Unknown Z aa
7 POD: Unknow
ITION: Chief of USIA

e. 175 ca. Wt: c. 65g, BUILD: Thin. BAER: Thick, blackBYES: Unknown
PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: More glasses for reading ee
ONAL HISTORY: Unknown :

avon MILITARY RECORD: Cans to USIA froa Goscw at the end of 19535 ailitsry record
a ee :
i '

AVFILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTAPIOM: CP seaber, active Conmnict

3 A very cocpotent chief, had reputation of being honest and fwir; intelligent, we
generally quict, never shouted at subordinates, z .



‘ergey Ivanovict:

Russian

BOMB c Ses ea WEE co eg BUELDY toi. HAIR: terk BYES:
i
2 OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERIATICS : :

PERSONAL HISTORY: Unsrowr co rource
SBHPLOYWENT; MILITARY RECORD: e-reec aes plant cirect=r for UFIG tn Zaet Garey before

Br, Coming + Asetrin in Leceaver 1952. M:ittary recore unkiw

At. active CP seater:

Honert, © ged vecnnice: epectaltet

BASIS OP INFO: Aciusintéc tnroun worie

POB: Unknown to source
tte Firenelal fection, of A/O Kabel, USIA
HT: cles ea. WP: ec. (0%. BUILD: Thi, HAIR: Dark © BYSS1 Unaoam
SLOTHER PHYSICAL CUARACTERISTICS: uncned’ shoulders, thin face, straight nace; vears

ees. tir right rand ms no index enc aldcle fingers up to the seczad joint,
BISTORY: Marriec ats tate :

EMPLOYHENT; MILITARY RECORD: Unknow to esurce

a

PARTY AFFILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTARIOM: ACP moaber tut not active
3 Liaeo to crink anc vas often drunk; considered a cultured, decent fellov vio wai

wohl -Like+

T]PAS18 OF THRO: Acquainted through work from”
Pebruars 1953 vs beceaver 1%, - -

EALUNS oaND pErResysdil



secret
: 1

WAKE: PSUILOV, Ivan Stopapovich : ECAR: on RAE: \
WATIGNALITZ: Russian u “ :
¢. 1903

Dad:
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: Electrical engineer ;Inshenor-oloxtrik),
POS: Unknow.

${ ers eo lésea  MBr c. (x. BUELD: TMn «HAIR; Light’) RyES; Ueknovn
F ; ;

OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Wane that wre suatancing

A parsonat wtsTORY: oncom

ERPLOYMENT; FOLITARY RECORD: Worked ae « pla: cirector for UCIG in East Germany before
coms, © sustria in July 1954. Miiitary record unknown

|

PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL CRIBNTATIC: An active CP asber
RERARES: 4 scoundrel, very tzpucent to equale and suvordinates; typical careorist

DATE OF Divo: Decender 1954

“WATE
JOCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: Unknown <-~ vn

ITY: Ructen ; 7 “

\POSETION: General Director cf the Brown Boveri plant subordinate to 4/0 Kabel, SIA
GHPs oe. Mees, WP: c, 75 kg. BUILD: Modus HAIR: perk “EYES: © Usnow
‘OTHER PAYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: one that vore sutstanding,
FERSOMAL HISTORY: Uaknova :

1, SMPLOYREN?T; MILITARY RECORD: ‘Unknown

ARTY AFPILIATION; POLIPICAL CRIEWPATYGY: An active CP destor

2 a big careerist who bas no convictions, He vould vork-as reedily for eny party
‘thst nppened to be in pover. : :

18 OF DFO: Acquaidted through work since
January 1953, vhen erurce cane to Austria,

|
[pow
{



ARB. Yeu Anatoly Kirllovich DEQRES OA RANK:
WATIONLLITY: Ucreintaa : :

pops ¢. 1903”
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: Corssrciel epecteliat if

POBy Unknow + :

POSITION: Second Deputy Chie’ of UFIA, respaneible for erazercial and financial ratters
Ws ectige cw, © WE1 6.10) ky. BUILD: Hoavy-eot HAIR: Dlond, brushSYES: Cncowe

+ eut, slightly receding inirlica
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Wide shoulders, athletic build, full Ukreinian feco

| PERSONAL HISTOAY: Graduate of the Acedeay of Foreign Trade in Koecov

| BHPLOYIGNT; HULITARY RECOK): Case to USIA in boginalng of 1954 froa Bast Germany viere |
be vorked for USIG, presumably ina etallar capacity; ailitary record unkiown to source.

3 PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIRWTATION: Active CP seaber

;|REHARKS: Very cospetent vorker, mvever very stubborn; vell thought of by hie euperiore
4 ° :
a, coca
“DATE OP DIFO: Deceaber 1954?
re

{OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: Party vorker a
POS: Unknown

POSITION: Hoac of the Soviet Commniet organisation in USIA
“Jers e.170 ca, WE: Unknown = BUZLD: © Mediun | HAIRS
‘JORKER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: one

";JPBRSOMAL HISTORY: Uaknovn

SFHPLOVIRNT; HILITARY RECORD! Goze froa Moccov to Vienna about! the end of 1953 or the”
‘beginning of 1954; ailitary record unknown.
; : 1

ARTY AFFILIATION; POLITICAL ONIEHPATION: Party soaber, devoted Communist

cho REPRESEN

waasune



MAKE:
NATIONALITY:  kusezs:. c

DOB: ¢. 19%
OCCUPATIONAL SFECIALTY: believed t ve an econcalet -

POR: Unknow.

i fet "BORER OR RAK:

Pe, POSITION: cntef of “FLA Labor and kage fection.
RR: os. 2: ea. WEs ce. tl ky. BUILD: Slexer BAIR: -...
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: >: Cade!
3+! PERSONAL HISTORY: Jaco:

BHPLOYIENT; MILITARY RECORD: care {roa Hoecos to Austria ie tne ssmer of 1953; replaces

VERS. star, FesIFE LP Undo Lo Fource.

PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: Active cP waver
wary, not very cospetent In tie jou, alveys tuvsivee ip|tntrlese

Acgasiatec througn work DATE OF HPO: Deceaver 295.

spgntattnnenn abi cree and

JMATIOHALITY: Karsian overran :
Ri DOB: ¢. 19)

{OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY: Unknown 2

i : POB: Unknown

General birector of the Paul Goers. plant suvordinate to 4/O Kabal, 1s

#=,] POSITION:
BAIRD Ligne’. BYES! Unknown

ETi c. dts ca WEs c..79 ke. BUILD: Thin
}OTHER PYYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Noe

PERSONAL HISTORY: Gasca

ENPLOYRENT; HELITARY RECORD: Unknown

a3

méa0sT!

Lace tful tectviduals reat “bootlicker™ vio vould stoop. to any baseness in order _
to acvance mseelf ar keep out of trouble.

‘ARD REP,

Ee.

DAE OF IWPO: Deceaber 1954

IS OP TNPOr Acquainted
Fevruary 1953 to becenver 1954



“1

wares Pavenov,” (tm) : DCORER on RANK:
ATI + Russian

DOBr ec. 199
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: bngincor

FOB: Unknow:
S| POSITION: Chlof Engineer ant Piret Deputy-Chief of CBIA ‘

EP: c. lOca, WE: c. 60 kg. BUILD:Short, stoutHAIRs Blond, EYBS: Unkaown
partislly tald in front
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS« Wore glassos —

A} PERSOHAL BISTORY: Unknown

RECOKD: Worked for USIG in East Coranny prior to coming to (SIA
unknown

LOYHENT; HILITARY
earl, ;irt of 1954. Military record

PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL CRIDHTATION s -

2: lsd reputation for boing a heavy  éeinior, lasy except tn Party works not very
competent. in his vork

Very active CP neabor

(BASIS OF INPO: Acquainted through work. (Source DATB OF DIVO: October 1954 ~
actually set hia only once.) E :

uara@s| LECH, Bikolay Sergeyerich DSORER G2 FANE:

{HATICUALITY: Russi

a aa wes BOBS -@, 1920 +
% loccurarrowa SPECIALITY ersonnel vorker ay

FOSs Unknow

a egeitieae
ipoartrons Deputy Chief of Personnel Section, 4/0 Kabal, USTA, ia.
{for Austrian personnol

‘Be c. 160 ca. Ws c. C0 kg.  BVILDsShort, thin EAs Dark
OTHER FHYSICAL CUARACTERISTICS$ Hone that vore oRtvanatng
FERSOUAL HISTORY: Kerried

a

ISRPLOvCEeT s HOLITARY RECORD: Had worked in the Soviet Tabansy in Poland
“Austria in Decesber 1953. Military record unknown

IPARTY APVILIATIOI; POLIPICAL CATEVRATEOAs . Kot an active. _ waaber

Believed by source to be a eenber of ‘the RUB (KGa)

V
18 OP THPO: Acquainted tnraigh wrk from DATE -OP DO: Deceaber 1954



-CMATIOASLITZ 2 Russien froa No.scow
[7 pocuUPaYIONAL SPECIALTY: Ecunoaist
&

a :
3 pOsrticH: Chief of USIA Planitng Section

fraarots em, WP: ec, Cong. «BUILD: “Thin «ATR: Grey

BOB: ec. 1892
POD! Unkroun ©

HISTOAY:? Unknown

fetomnre MILITARY RECORD: Worked in GUSDZ in Hoscoy as planning accountant before
~f coming to Austria sbout the end of 1953; ailitary record unknown

ARTY AVPILIATION; FOLIPICAL ORIENTATICA: Noto Party onder

t Cultured, intelligent, very competent epecialiet; gave appearance of an old Russian
squire, Dressed very ceatly, vore string tle; vas generally vell-liked

DATE OP IUPO: Deceaber 1954

13 OF TPO: Acquainted through work

» (ina)

APIGAALITY: Rureian H
ATIONAL SPECIALITY: Unknow .,

: _ BOD Usknova
OSITICH: Chief of the Labor «nd Wage Section of 4/0 Kabel, USIA’
4 e. 170 ca, WE: oc. 75 kg. | BUILD: HModium HAIR: ‘Grey
| PEYSICAL CUARACEINIOTICSs "one that were outstanding



(fozale)

i
4
}

“OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: Secretary-typtot com a

- POSTtTO: Secrotary to GLAaDKIT, Chief of 4/0 keel, UTA
=, c. ith ca, WEr ¢. 50 kg. BUILD: ‘Thin dae short, vray Unknow
“ OTEER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Lory howe, ets face cee :
“ FHRSOKAL HISTORY: Unknova : as ue

: : :

’ EMPLOYHENT; MILITARY RS“ORD: Uskrown

PARTY AFPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: Weta Party soaber

3 wulet, serious, hard-vorkirg girl, pleasant to everyone

REMARKS oma to be quite
{ Aiptelitgeat She did nat like her does, thought he wee stupic,

nd stated ae much to source.

‘BASIS OP THFO: Acquaintes through work DATB OP D081 Deceader 1954

war: Yruucunrs, (fmu}
‘WATICH: 2 Russian
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALIVY: Unkewm =. 0-5.

DSGREB OA RADKs

DoS. cc. 1692_
toni "one

zosrnton: General Director of Sichtersann plant of A/O Kabel, USIA
BPs. c, 170 co WEi c, 70 kg, BUILD: Mediua BAIN:
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Vore glasses

. jfeROCUM, BIBTORY: Unknown :

UNPLOVWNIE) MILITARY FICORD! talaga

Grey

PARTY AFPILIATIONs ' POLITICAL CAIEFTARICH 4 Bota Party member
: FBHARKS: Coxpetent — foir to sungraiaates



DORKS; Ca Rates
ane

DOBs c. 1912
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: tereonnel worker, believed ty eource to.be MGB (KGB) vorker
POBs - Unknan source

WE: ec, 7 kg. BUILD: Heavy LATA Rec with tolQgyRS: Unenown
i ‘epot costed over
OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTARISTIC31 Long full nose : ana

| PERSOMAL HISTORY: Married

sonnel goction tn 4 ‘divie:
letter part of 1953.

FF » BAELOVARNT 5 MELITARY RUCOMD: Worked as chief xf 6
t Gerzary prior to ceaing to Austria during
cM. 12 ecurce.

ee wat

{PARTY APPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: Party soster; Cevored to tne Party, atrang

Very unpleseant tnetvicual eee

{BASIS OP INFO: eee tarnugh work froz DATZ OF DIPO: Decester 195. Peete
varuary to Deceater |) Be i

a
DSGRBB OR RAVE: +
BOre. 1910
joccuparzowa SPECIALITE: Pereonnel, worker (ale protatiy « vorker for 69/2)
POD: Unknown
;POSETION: Acairtant to Cs
© ica. WE: oc. t5 kg. BUILD: Silencer HAIR: Blond, tald- BYES: Urknown
ing on the sices :
— PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: None that vere outstanding ©

Unknown

, USIA, Cor personnel satters ” “

ExeLonenrs RILITARY incor: Caze froa Koscov at ‘the end of 1953 or tes s eaieniag of
1956; allivary record-unknove

PARTY APPILIATIONs POLITICAL GRIETARION: Active CP neabor
JRBHARKS: Reputec to be very wtupic; generally dleliked by, everyone

BASIS OP INPO: Acquainted through work. (Source DATS OF DFO: Hoveaber 1954
(set bis on only cne occasion.) ‘


eT ee

«=

apetrre ns

SMIN, Vasiliy Nisitich
LITY: Russias
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: Ec>.c0rtst

* poBe ¢. 1900
POB: Unknow.
POSITIOP: Chief of tne Planazsg fnetts. of A/C Hotel, USTA

ce iSes | WEt c. 8543. BUILD: Stout HAIR sk, teld on BY8St  Yakzown

the <p arc pices
&, OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Full face, sccaslorally voare dark horo-rimed gleases,
Anpice and on care cays, and nis another pair >!

Larene for reactcy
PERSOWAL HISTORY: . Civercec

BUPLOYMCNT; HILITARY Lovee

Werced in the Mintetry of ftate Control ic Moscow prior to
austria

is orgentzation along vith cary otters es @ result of
s Se and tther organizations. He cane t> Austria
4 tn Janna:

PARTY

ree
‘AePrLEATION “POLITICAL 6: OatmTATION ar active ane Joyal CP sexber

REMARKS: Actec like a lord (icrin),
pot Like to vork hiarell.

He vas usec to conmmicing people all his life end did

BASIS OP INFO: Acquaintes through work foe ‘DATE OP DVO: beconber 1954
Jenunry v: beceser 1352

juane: Acercevevia, avitye (femley DEORRE OR RAK:
‘lwartonatarr: nuseta:

ceesntactt Bey Gaenoan eet
OCCUPATIONAL sPScUALT ITY: Engineer .
{ : PODs Unknown) ee

ce. lf ea. WE: Unknown BUILD: Mectun HAIR: Bick BYES! Bh ck

WENT; MILITARY RECORD: asoterant to Neeinty Bikiticn SUN, Chief. of Planning
sffection of a/0 Rabel

PARTY AFPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIEVPATIONs | Unknown

IS OF TPO: Acquéinted through work _ DATSOP HPO: _ 1954



WARS: \ SIKHCVIEGY, Svaniay Festrot
WATIONALITY: ix.ss:-:.
OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY: -

umercias speciait:

nstion of a/0 Kates,
Me. BAIR: = terk BYES: Ucknwn

um Uaroinian face arc wears hie hair esabec

+ tne ataseny of Feretgn Trace (Akaceziya Vnestres Torgovli)

division of US1S

5 Comsescial Seetion ertef in

nbecester 193 Military record uxkcown to source.

HILITARY RECORD:

cong to

{ A Mor
}> EMPLOYMENT.
an East

—_ APPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: a: active Party nezier anc a loyal Commirist

it menus: Beowar wy eee

sian tie specialty veil. :

DATE OP DHFO1.. Deceaber 195.

BASIS OP INPO: acyaz:
A Jonears 22 Leceacer Pat.

ee fee 3928
Lar arate
POBr

“OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY:
‘ Unknown

ie

PE POSITION: Eny.neer an tne Production Féetion of A/C Kabel eee
BTs c ttscz | Wt ce elie BUILDShort, thin HAIRehtck, blond BYES: Unknown 2

f OTHER PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS: eal : :

: ‘

<PERSONAL BISTORY: Yarrie.

(SMPLOYWENT; MILITARY FRCORD: Hac verked in East Gersiuy for USIG prior to January 1954
: working #2 on engineer in Production Section of 4/0

Havel, USI) Milatery record unknown E iessissbaiatrt

far

} ARTY AVPILIATION; POLITICAL ORIENTATION: an active CP seaber

MD PePAOOUeragy

ne
oa moe

Tu



Mave: |.

NATIONALITY: ...

"pags tt
OCCUPATIONAL SFECIALTY: eee weer (lgrereelectr.
POB: Sh

Mer pubstctin te ty A/B Kate:
Tit MAIRg | Sloe, BYES: Usin707s

+ vere sutetanctie,

Leal” plant it Mopeqw vefore

iota arty soxver

pais. a greeip. He vous serve any goverazent

DATE OP INPO: Lecester 19/2

PaTIONALITY:

, OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALITY:

Avs Hotel, FIA

HATRiwWark oue és: vexnwn

ane very

ar chief ofa procuction section in a divislon «2
we latter part -f 1953. fource knew nothing stout

DATE OF IPG: beceaber 195.



CONPIDENTIAL -

ty
DISTRIBUTION
19! 79g7th Composite droup
2 USAREUR Liaison Oroup,
Beeacnent A, APO 742
HICoa (APO 757-A)

Vienna

a
1
&
London ig

Aes't. Chief of Staff, a-2,
USPA

DRA.

66th CIC Group, APC 158
FDI Liaison, ID, USARECR
COHNAVGER, APO 757

BLO (B)

Hge., USARZUR

Hae., USAFE



ener

|
HO623° 4
ay Miah sy. |
\
i oe

LDIMRICK, LIPSTICK, W562, dated 27 Jan 54
LIVESTOCK

Prenes
Ponta BR.
BO l-IBRIBF >.



ikodad Sergoyevich LEXI : : < IBth633

Valariya Tanga Li TVA q i : i

: vt a ame 2 Mag = Tl Deo 1953 :

Yexioo City . E acca esmm0 . I 3

i : +, 44

LIMERICK , LIPSTICK, LIVESTOCK

Nemes Nikolai Sergeyevioh LEQIOV
Borng 22 August 1923 in Ryasnn
Arrived in Hexicot 12 July 1953 aboard SS Andrea oritts, Voracurs, with wife t
Bogumenta: lds service passport 10724, bana teariaeesk A 195?,. in Moscow cs
Titles Unknown “opitions Tnknown | j
Residence in Noxicos Juanacatlan &1 o ee
Wifes Valoriys Ivanoma : ; cea
Childrent tone known, one in Moxieo . : i i
Languages: Spanish food . H i
Other personal data: “Hokname = XOLY4 } 4
Gocastonally drives one of baaey automobiles eee bitiereered tit

itt Oettotar rottyttton bo

Our few references to TETIOV make it sppoar that hoy like PULYAKOV and ANTYASOV,
with whom ho soens to le vaguely sssociatad, isa t ind echelon functionary who
prob-bly performs a variety of administrative tas’:s in support of one or another
phase of the Snbassy operations and might be in omtho~job training for 2 ape
Ginlised jor as assistant to, at a guoss, S'YOILOV, In early tugust, shortly af=
ter his arrival, he enlled a woman instructor at an o! scuro local tusiness school
and wes told that he could come ty for his prades the following woe, (ve infer
cureinpentioiet: SRG Another convers-tiwn that HATVSiZV ws a-tending this school vith him,):
i LEG vas aleo with AITYASW and BOLY\“OV when LITYASIV wes detainod om their ‘
wey “back from the Univeraity® at the end of Septaster, (Sees A TYASW.) This i
‘ Ghould indicate that ho wee orinsipally occupied durin*. the weeks efter his ar :
»  .. whval dn aequainting hinself with local business methods and con-erofal prao- H be
5” teas, and perhaps takin; sme furtter form] instruction, Otherwise, his @p- ieee
pear nees in the traffic have been lf ited to answerinz tne tolophono for both 5 be
» . . ’ ROLOMYAKOV and SAMOTLOV tn their absorice (w'thout making decisions or taking : u ‘
t @ay action) ani, under tho tutelagoof LAZAREV tefare tho latter's departure, 7
. routing calls comested with ordering ving, rupa‘ring the movie projoo-
© tor, and the like, He ins also oceasionally been sean driving one or a-other
of the Embassy automobiles, aparently filling in for on2 of the chauffeurs.

Sg 9:
Our enly information on LEGiOV's private life is the faust that’ the Z4-KOVs moved
i ae hg atte aces f

;
i
F
E
|



on 7 Bovexber' and the tio couples Lived torether for about three veeka, vhen the

L5OHOVs moved into other quarters at Junontlan M1. (There vere no indicati-ne
thet the original arrancecnt bad evor been intended to be othar than temorary
or that the subsequent move cf the LlWVe wos due to friction betvecn the wo
couples.) ‘This raises tho cugyestion thet ZiNKCT umy be associated in sone way
with LEW within tho Mubassy as wall, o yoscitdlity which is borne out to some
Rae

extant by the fast that both habitually answer und rake calls fron the sano

bacay telerhenes.

: Soarcnt,
We camet yet assess LEQUW for operational purposes.



Bamet Volertya Ivanovna LiGiovs
Bom: Unimown
Arrived in voxico 11 July 1953 aboanl °S aninon Grit! in Veracrus ui th mmstand

2ithouch ve have no definite indications to that effect, there is a fair poasi-
Daldty ‘that LEGHOVA 1s employed in some adninistmtive or ciorieal position in

‘4 the Babassy, since eho scons to be prosant in the Chancery area a good deel
during office hours and, vithout children, would not othorvise have a reat dex)
to de,

{ Qur only information relating dircotly to L:ONOVA occurs during a conversation
| betarcen APA SUVA and HELHILOVA on 26 Uctober in woich A:ARLiOVA oon: lainel bite
H terly that LOCUCVA wis shiriing her ohare of responsibility in prerering food

} for the 7 Novenber rece,tion, LOINVa bad apparcntly fulled to buy ingradienta,
1 br hii are-theearedied do #0, on the plea that sho had not been told excetly what
1 Kind of apples to cet aur vhero to buy then, A:ARDKVAs "ACSOMCLISL always

| ‘rag about being in the front line, but in actunlity, behF GLNIKOTA: "Yas,
| when Iwas at ‘thoir hous, ws happened to discuss the rece;tion, end Rita

(AUTEASVA) caid, "dhy should wo do the work tor the rccortion?! I told her she

i end holidays, and I don't comlain, Lsdli-VA cleizs sho is not :olng
| | te do any shopping besause sho vas not given the rusponsiniiity." AVARCKVAG
i ¢ Imot her end said "Lara, . «' She said she'd eure over
i Suday and mace a list of the tance to bo boughs TeLHIZOWAs “and sho did't
i in te
{

i
i
z

ashamed of herself. I work in the Hrbsesy an! held ont during rocep=



Luearey 15 oves 04-370 24 dul 53 Po 5

ilies ayn

P. 5-6 Nakolal LiQhov, neolisioPstor", and his wife, Yelerta
aboard an Italian veszel duly 1953. Forwarded wi

photos ofthe Sublects ti LIV87 kot
{der EELIAKOV. os : = ;
+ 7 Baehaey at : i
| P10 qeguehtbeat Seveverteh LICSOY ant hia vier Yaloria Zvonomea LESOVA sertvet ot : i
: tet cosas tal iy Liv 9524. gformrded viththia report are the Calleving perti- : ee)

cs from LSWOV's passport

aa of LE.EOVA's

Foreign Pistry carte te wea of Lsoucl

(es atsaecs ed 3) Gf LAY and wife are also attached = i ‘€
Ee i

6 copies of the pair leaving the
’ 6 coples of LiLtiGy op torieg eearicy rere : :
; 1 Sip often it's oe eee
2 copy



1) thtet of hissice, 4
Row ertet cE 8s

Eetristtcy oe *, x - e a ii HE oat ice # Pee :
Bratquarters files contain the infomation z ver Urlow concerning m2 | -
BALSIN, cho ny be itentical, 107 Sa3NKt NECN 0s not able to, EE
*  prowjée aisitional {nfsretion. — 7 . - -

“necordin: ‘to taf seas

‘ Stet: cee Se
CLASSIFICATION :



Security laformatior - mastee8

; -JUL 1 + 1953
Chief of Mission, Mozico City

Chief, WED

aeae eset eeaaaege \ Soviet Exbassy Perscans)
Bikolal LEGCV

RAPE RORA5958, RoWOScA2

Beadquarters ¢: ize contain the information given belov concerning ane
. LECHOV, vho may be identical vith subject. KUPALM vas not able to
provide ed¢itioas] inforration.

According to Inforaatical
Gated 17 duly 1352, one a, LEGIOV,

_ paosport matber 0945 pr , visa. number 70,
Gated 25 April 1952, Yeas leader of an Agriculture Delegation
from Hoccov to ettend thr Asian Regional Coaference. ca

;. Bpizootics Bald at Karachi on 3 ay 1952, -



= . : aes ang OF 1130 32, DectGHS THI EDS TH a7 the UB Code. oe
y 7 emerdded, Te trinumiation or revelation of iu contenta

INFORMATION REPORT - to or reipt br an, veauthorind pera is >rohibited

SHCRET/CONIROL - U. 8. OFFICIALS ONLY
: SECURITY BYFORMATION.

couNTeY : Itely/USSR ©
‘suet Taeved of Cuvsce uiysouatie Personuel nn piste

oy a HO. OF PAGES 1
DATE oF mwo, 16 May 1953 : _ REQUIREWENT NO. RD

PLACE Acauiep Ttaly, Rome (23 May 1953) j

THE SOURCE EVALUATIONS i THIS REPORT att DEFINITIVE.

TE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S: TENTATIVE.
(FOR KEY SEE REVERSE)

SOURCE: Appraisal of Content: 3.

Bikolai Leonov, an employee of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico, and his
wife, Valeriyn, left Genca cn 16 May 1953 aboard the 8S ANDREA GRITIT,
destinedaforctaxtes,

fe



ssoume arctense OF the Untied Bates, -vithin'the meag~
ing Of Thie 18:thections Tana 19,0f the 8. Coe, en

*sINFORMATION REPORT. cose ssn Sitegemmeninin Seemitoneenne  *
a

Ep Sher Toe sesronting ot form |

A ae iy
SECRET/CONTROL = Us 3, OFFICIALS ONLY a
or ae ey V4

t

countay Italy /USER/Mexico CS. 10879
27 May 1953

super Travel of Suriet
Diplomatic Persosnel

DATE OF INFO. 13 May 1953
PLACE ACQUIRED Italy, Rame ( 19 May 195:

}
A
'
4
H
H
H
i
;
i
i
i
THE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT AS TENTATIVE. ©
(8 ety ste envesse)
4
NO a : _
" ‘The following Soviet diplowmstic personnel arrived in Rome on 9 May

1953 from Moscow and took Lodgings at Primrose Persione until 13 May *.
* 1953, when they departed for Genoa to proceed by sea to Mexico: : ee

@. Wikolai Leonov, collabaratar at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico

‘Uity, who carries service Passport ¢ LOT, soowea in Moscow on
29 October 1952; and -

Dd. Valeria Leonova, wife of stove, who-wrsborn in Moscow on 28 Apri?
‘1g28-ank who carries servica Bassport c ae assued.in Moscow...
oeee~-on 26 February 1953+



NE

ROME Seh2 «9 Tikolad LOCTCV and wife Valeria errived in Bone on 9 !'n7 53.from “occow end took
Iz 2671s Lodgings at Frinrose Fenrione ontil 13 ey 53 when ‘tie dezarted for Genoa to
22 Yay 53 proceed ty eca to Merico. LICUCY carries service © 10724, Sseued in Moscow
ae on 29 Oct 52. Wife carries service ppt. C-11507.

‘ ir ae
Hikolai b. Plozan (nob, Rrazan) 29 ang 19%. Yaleriu bv. Yoscow-22 Apr, 1928.

80-95339 22 Sept '52t One H. LECKCV, pasevort Ho. o94g2 dtd ah Avrt52 Viea To. 70, dtd eee
25 apr5z, arrived in Peshawar fron Kabul on 2 Yay!52. Tule iddividval is lesder

of Agriculture Delegation frcm Moecow on wap.to Herachi.(thie info. texen from i
BoE-175 td 17, we 52 ard'vas acouired in| Purvose of this trp -
0 attend At Eegional Conference o! 8 held in Karachi

oh ay'52.



WCUst SUGUST 1928, COLLABCRATCR SORIET E.SAS3Y
PASSPS RT C ae ISSUED ¢cS0ow 29 OCT bad

“Da~ 132139



. a SECRET,
cae gasosr pewsomiet

rma: .covabomten att

en Sit;
ae!

THCOMES cocccovccscnerevcces
Heights oesces.

osccoese WOLEtt? cacerecccees

Eyes: ccccccsccoovcose Hairs eer eecocevee

Complexion: ceccccsccssssessocsescerecressooes

Special featuress +006

Date of birth: .27.bev9h.2728.
Birthplacer ssosAPFFPesese
” Religions

Description: Date of Births

asaport ¢ 11507, issued Moscow

\ BRLEGLONE “eeccecceccerrceceroecessoncsvcocssoce:

Manes, Home Aver, , Hone in Mex63,° 1... Residencetsesssseesecesse

i ae BAM? sesecscssccececscsserse AGOE veseee Residence! -sreasessesscee
: Sees Hames ceccccscccesscvcccescers Ager Ceo ninamiste Cacia . i

Documentations eoerian :
Nikolai LONCY - Service Passport ¢ Wr, issued in Hoscow



TR ht

. Bonds |.
Ey Brennen

pMerings va
ee Saat

oS Ce pres Ete
80 peel patepert | ~ 6g ina



Boxbre conple:o: pe Micoltr dergereh
O/ Fecha y Ligar do nactaieater «Car qariia 4/7, SO
oS Pi veees ba Tacehye OV Henig QF SOA
4/ Coupactéias Aytaae af <a Cwhyeme ih OS te tte
e/ Goler de pele y ojos: mY wtuen

£/ Betas partionleres: = 97 mene

WS Retatura 772 ww

Bf Kontze
pariente

1/ Botive
en

Lets » direcesen ded
roano ea ia Uass: | “*

Fisdo de wa estonia ate ohare BOE
hatha ebb ap WAEO MIO. om viege
@ Kassie. .

4

Yeohs y lugar de ou Dlegade en lee B°.tU.1 “Pat Adhere Kein

~ Lareae (Sleef
iene ater x rtecarey

Manera d.

Beoba y lugar 40 oi salina Ge lew ER.00.: 2 OV ont oe OF

ke Watery Sane
fOr €e2c0- Otan aheth

Bareceién durante m ostancis en los EF.W.s

Wanere de viajors

Aric” Powe, “

73
BEES |

ern Set





3

5.

oblate.

ad

wn

janpens,

ry

ix

ut tym
cnt
ce

Ne
BIEL,

ey

ry

On bas

Attachment to HAMA+5438, “10 Cot 56

4

nomeccmare rings“



ie a
O/ Nonore codyieion Ceemeay,

Bracke y Leger te ouctatentis 217 ay aes’ ae VL, CESS
CVA rere ba Fue hig ey debe OF Fee oe
6/ Coupecibar ace ey catty, :
@/ Color 8 pedo x ojoes Re baiap rrrliy
4/ Wena yarticularess Ae Benge
OS ketature /*SPeu,

Spepenty Wears Saers

XY Bourse comyle:o 4 direcotia sel | 4g py
parionte nie cerseno ta tetas, 47 PERC :

1 Botten Z.pertéto de mu estencia cial 0G anne ar SF
hilicbadirmeacct, 1) ee ee arene aw eye
a anit :

Pacts y lugar do ou liegetn on low Tie FG ae a Fi
mw are. aod
4, a .
SO” ferieesrer’
Su salide de los BE.0U.1 < -ae a Ae ae
& Ao Nite Se

Manors de viejars

Pears y lugar

Ranora ¢e viejart

PP daz

Pirecciés durante jeu eatancia en lee £:.0U.1 “esac

ence bf





Ar Wil,

Glew?

re: ration

COO? C.Ch eC
Hg
104:



the tesa
tet

at

+ tb paesent, Fi

Ore OE
tiga

ir,







ON MNinetla
os Mihetas Cfiathow

. MIE
“AMOCT PATHE

thot
CAYREBHBI I



UMINISTI'RE Dt
“DTRANGE RE







20 May 1955: Rodolfo, ‘NEZWO called Subjact an and-was told "Wa have found the
books and naterial-you royiested (re Sodtet foreign pulicy).” LET
said he would take ‘the, books to NEXVO ti NEHVO for many years
active in the Mexican. Dipicmatio Service,’ at one time being Charge of the
Mexican Legution in Warsaw, Poland, cw vbout 75 and inactive in Goverment, By
but does write artioles for the new Ata 3736 5 -Leo 55). + 7

6 Jamuary 1956: The daughter of General deriberto JAR spoke with Subject
at the Soviet Embassy saying she had been told ‘that he was the person who
could inform her of when she should come by to pick up translations of the
“olincial cocuments” relative to herse!f and her futher. Subject said they
were having some trouble getting the documents translated because of the
medioal terms, but said they should be ready in aoout five daya (iD 4200).

1 February 1956: Subject called Velia Jara de NIETO, daughter of General JaRA,
and told her that the translations cf her father's tlinical history had been
made from Russian into Spanish, Mrs, NISTO ‘said she would visit the inbasay
the next day and ask LeONOV for the raterials (HMMA 4410),

24 February 1956: One Sumuel Fai9S contacted Subject who acts as secretary to
Soviet ambassador, Yexico. 2AkUS told LNOV “ive ure not going to nest at ny
house this afteracon, tut at Sslc0's (which is at) Insurgentes 42-51 at the usw
hour." Subjeét replied that he thought he could get to the meeting at 1900

hours and sont greetings "to tha boys." . 20S said "we have sons bocks we want
to order through LEONOV" (HMA 4336),

2 March 1956: Sumuel RAMOS left a message for Subject that "if he has time I
hope he will cone to ny house today” (125i 4600).

7 Varoh 1956: Samuel RAMOS called Bnbsssy and asked for data on the possibility

of staging an internaticnal chess match in Msxico. In this conversation it was eee
indicated that KaM0S y@ in the ucademio line of work, le stated that mx ho was :
"back in classes” ‘and! that meetings could ne longer be held in his hone. ie

told LAONOV that a tournament featuring a person named "POMARD" would begin

Monday (12 March) and {invited Subject to coe sume of it, LUNOV said he would

attend if ho had tine. aMOS then asked when he could see LNOV to give hin

@ list of booxs “we want", LSOXOV told him to come to the Embassy at uny tine,

and RAMOS said he would come right away (tl 4600).

ee cenreeebrebreerceceeeeseiaeial . cutee
©. 27 Jume 1956 Subject's personal culling card found in addrese took of \
Fidel GaSTRO Ruz, Cuban revolitionary detaided in Hexico (MEXI 839 IN 35356 |
i REF: MEXI 825 IN 34161). {

22—29 July 1956* Subject served as translator for Bighth International
Radiology Congress Soviet delegates (H25.1752/,

1 October 1956? Subject and wife requested U.S. transit visas to leave Mexico
17 Oot by rail, entering U.S. via Laredo; to depart New York 24 Ootober on - a
Queen Elizabeth (MEXI 231 IN 34833 6 Yot 56/, %



as SECRET
cmon Felted toy

DOCUMENT TRANSFEk AND “CROSS REFERENCE

BUBTECT OF OOCUENT

=
RI FILE WO.

Bo Drivavew O8 sounee BOE, FrWBDL ma.

Fr aounee ee Date oF invo. |b. EvauaTiON

ie PROcETED

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

errr

i
rie

PERTINENT INFORMATION

LEONOV, NIKOLAY SERGEYEVICH
201-132139 OT4~005-102
SEX DUA 22 AUG 28 SX -05555/09
NO DATE

CIT ussR
occ 7

KGB FIRST CHIEF DIRECTORATE LATIN AMERICAN
DEPT INPUT 2 NOV 67

TuA719 R 6803140507

oanetbeti dua ie SCOTT
7

ween SECRET

we.



IsdHor, si HEE J(eetore) iii i
os ee
 Stxord sereje ch Ricknane: KOLYA

: NCollaborator" 2 €MPLoree

| Arrived in Mexico: 11 July 1953—Veracruz = Departing by rail 18 Oct 56 for NY and then {

i (met by BELYAKOY) on Queen Elizabeth 2h Oct. 56 i i

: (FRG — ehip m oats Arrived 19 Jun 53 (11 July telieved correct) aboard Andrea Gritti.
LEONOY carrying PP £10724 issuod Moscow 29 Jan 52, PP -elee-dhffere-from EHEStOCr

$236699-abera> SV VISA (USSR) & EBM 19689

a Residence: irate face Yi
cor Zitacuaro and Juanacaticn‘a/o Brnovs3-Laquation — deenaecth .
BPE aa weeds sige ys Soak fom CAE Bn wens Ce

Wifor Velerigatvanoms ‘

~
&,

| address - 21 Feb 54 - 3201: Cuautle 161-9
: AZAN
Desertvtion: born 22 Mve28, Ry : ees
Reight: 170 ons Weight Build: Fair: blend Eygs; blue :

others

i
! Languages: Spanish cood (Follcove jun54)
H English (13372, 21 Sept. 56)

: French (Visa section)
| :



+ RYv-W-748, dated 1 July 19531.' One N, LEMOV wes Loader of an Yericulture Deleg:tion from
} Moscow $0 attend the Asian Reg'onnl Conference on Epizootica hele in % rachi on 3,lay 52.

at

‘eit latch SRO THAN ACH RE eALERTS RA NES





SC oma

LAA BH3.

aA

é y











a a

t Nikolay Sergeyevioh Leow

: ff Pare

ie mag + : : te

: ‘ .

a :



Soa CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
: SECRET -

{Shen Fitted ny

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

To RI/ANALYSIS SECTION oct $6 hase eka
PRI AN | {igoq_k [Pats

IMSTRUCTIONS: ‘be typed or printed sm block Lette:
SECTION

f, mene and identifying data in the spaces provided. AIL know a
plicoble) must bo, tiated. If the identilying date earies with th
ete UNKNOWN Tor iters ya: unable to comptete,

SECTION U1: List ceyptonye or pasedonya, if susigned. If true nase is seneifins, obta
Ere! Dest asd cooplete
md Section 111, Subait cach form separately.

701 nee!
1. On & separate form, onter' the 201 nvobe? and

foe D1 Cone
ete Section IE

SECTION Lit: Te be completed in att ca

SECTION §
EEE aaa r rv botuinT
Won SEesr TIVE Oh 42.972 MMA i
Ae suey (eiddtey” (Fitsty 5438 (Titles z
7 Wikalag Seppe
weawe Vint det

(Hiddtey (Fire) Mazi)

Oe
at) iss
Z

= Prcpueter oi OF Bint 6.P” Clty ow town OF ninTa 7M ower vocwtiricatiow @-

3) USSR inf
scoxeanigarronitife

aay ieerrertee Ssuret Embassy Me vce!
SETERY SECTION Wt ~ =

7 cave Tonen PseuDonvae

= SECTION
COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE many: DES) it. Pano Countay iwtEREsT 12. re COUNTRY IwTEAEST fre

mexyl

PERMANENT QHARGE

e SEC a “
is Fs ED GIA INTERNAL USE ONLY wpe 3

