# 104-10195-10412

## Page 1

104-10195-10412]

UNCLASS!FIED

FROM

INTERNAL

# COLY

• CON DENTIAL •

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TEreNsion

SECRET

ND

DIR 74830-5545

DNA. THE

PACERS

5

SCOTT

WHi*

Goosenti

Bm

we should a hil

It for phoes.

im Me fo

10.

18.

Fils.

11/4/2,00

12.

13.

SCOTT 15 WA

DATE "E

11.=

3.

5..

15.

1-1575

ross

610 STARS O SECRET O CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

U

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIEO

---

## Page 2

15.1808

DISTR

ACTION:

INFO:

DE•LNHEO

Rosing.

PRIORITY

OEBATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

INITIALS

INITIALS

PWO

1022292

DATE:

FILE:

11 OCT 63

TALONING AUMELA

5945

OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVEMA 1 OCT PROPARLY IDENTICAL

LEE HENRY OSWALD (201-2892488 BORN, 18 OCT. 1932

NEW ORLEANS,

LOU SEATED TO USS IN ECT 1952.

FORMER RADAR OPERATOR IN UNITED STATES MARINES

OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN

INCHES, ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT DROWN LAVY MIR,

BLUE EYES•

STATES CITIZENSHIP TO

INDICATING HE HAD APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP•

ON. 13 EF

US END MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

POSTMARKED MINSK ON

FES 1961 IN WHICH SUES INDICATED

HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN TO USA IF "WE

COULD COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE DROPPING

DF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME."

ONE JULY ON HIS OWN

INITIATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE EMB WITH MIS MIFE TO SEE APOUT HIS

RETURN TO STATES.

SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACTUALLY HAD NEVER APPLIED

THAT HIS APPLICATION AT

THAT TINE HAD PEEN TO REMAIN IN USSR AND FOR TEMPORARY EXTENSION

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME OF HIS RECUEST•

APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO OSWALD, CONTAINED NO REF TO SOVIET

CITIZENSHIP•

OSWALD STATED THAT HAD REEN EMPLOYED SINCE

13 JAM 1950 IN PELORUSSIAN RADIO AND TV FACTORY IN MINSK

WERE WORKED AS METAL

WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP•

OSWALD WAS

PARRIED ON SO APRIL 19S1 TO MARIMA MIXOLAEUNA PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN PORN 17 JULY 1941 USSR•

NO HDS TRACES•

HE ATTEMATED ARRANGE FOR HIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

COULD APPEAR AT EXA FOR VISA INTERVIEW.

HIS AYERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO MIM.

US EMB ROSCOW STATED TRENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD.

LATEST HDOS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1952

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERVINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET MIFE HAVE EXIT PERITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

TRELISE,

STATION SHOULD PASS S SURGE LOCALIA MED PARAS

THREE BRIGERATES MITH ODACID:

AND ONUAGE LOCALLY.

24 j.is

7-ü1

INCOMING

---

## Page 3

4-00000

END

OF

:

1571909

-

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

DEI ERREO

ROUTINE

TU

TNITIALE

PRIORITY

OPERATUVAL

ANITALS

IMMED-AME

INFO

INCOMIAN RUMBLA

CITE

PAGE THO DIR 74830--IV 5845

REF AND FOSSIPLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATEI

TO HDQS OF ODENVY, ODACIE

AND ODURGE,

PLS KEEP

OF OSWALD.

HUNGER

11/16027

INCOMING

---

