# 104-10256-10405

## Page 1

104-10256-10405-

TraT

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP 1

ENCOUDED 1EDN AUTOMATIE

(When Filled In)

CSANSPADING AND'

DECLASSIFICALE:

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

2

3

4

3-: ROUTIG ANDOR INITIALS SEEN .

5

6

7

8

05.5A

DISSEM BY.

FER.

ACTION INIT

127686

FILE, VR

ACTI

NO

C/IP/AN, DDP, ADDP, C/FE/INO 4, C/FE/LOC 2

124

C/FL 2,

C/C1, C/SAVA,

D/SECUR 4) c/S0D 3

3

SECRE I 121148Z NOV 71 CITEL

24725 (SEGERQUIST ACT ING)

DIRECTOR PHNOM PENH VIENTIANE SAIGON

RYBAT SECUR

REF: DIREGIOR 88:14 KNOTAL?

12Mov IN 467 962

"1O MR. MITCHEL AO WERBELL, QIULIARY ARMAMENT

CORPORATION (FORMERLY AN ELEMENT OF WERBELL'S GEORGIA

EASED FIRM OF SIONICS WHICH REPORTEDLY WENT

BANKRUPT), IS BACK IN BANGKOK ATTEMPTING TO SELL HIS WARES

PICHINO PISTOLS AND ENIPER RIFLES). THE REF MESSAGE CITES

Tl: FACT THAT HQS HAS A LENGTHY 201 ON SUBJECT (201-259910)

MA THAT HE ¿S CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS, A WHEELER-DEALER

AUD A PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. HE HAS ON OCCASION -

MITORD EITHER TO BEING AN LNLUTE.REP OR HAVING LNLUTE BACKING•

30. SUBDOT MET WITH SEVERAL LNCUFF OFFICERS ON 5 NOV

71 AND RELATED THAT HE WAS ATTEMTING AGAIN TO INTEREST THE

TRAI GOVERNMENT IN PURCHASING HIS PRODUCTS. SUBJECT CLAIMS

TO BE PERSONAL FRIEND OF AIR CHIEF MARSHAL DAWEE AND THAT

HIS SAMPLE WEAPONS WERE CONSIGNED TO DAWEE IN ORDER TO BRING

THEM INTO THAILAND. VA

HASO

3. SUBJECT ADVISED LNCUFE THAT GEN. KRIANGSAKE

MORDERED

SECRETIC

1i39

---

## Page 2

14-00000

i CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE COPY

BY.

DISSEM. BY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

ISSUED

SLOTTED

ASSIFIED MESSAGE: TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP 1

When Filled In CLEAR STE

CCANGRNSINE AND

CICLESSIFIERTION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND CR INITIALS-SEE. •

2

3

5

6

7

8

19 be A171

PER

1077

FILE, VR

PAGE IWO

2405 DECRET

ONE HUNDRED MAGINE FISTOLS AND TWENTY SNIPER RIFLES. HE

ALSO INDICATED THAT HE HAD MET WITH HOS.H. ADMIRAL DISKUL,

CHIEF AIDE DE CAMP TO HOM. THE KING AND CLAIMS HE WILL SELL

HIS MACHINE PROTOL TO ZUL: ROYAL FALACE GUARDS. FURTHER

CLAIMS ME WE HAVE AUDIENCE THIS WEEK WITH H.M. THE KING.

4O FONG MIS CURRENT THAILAND VISIT, ON 16 NOV 71

LUBUFOT AND ISO CASON MO STONE (201-096998) PLAN TRAVEL

FIDOM FERO FLAN TO CONTACT MR. LADD AT PHNOM PENH. ACCORD-

TO INDUFF SUBJECT MANS CONTACT CAMBODIAN MIL. AUTHORITIES

DIS MOSSIBLE WEAPONS DALEC. SUBJECT HAS ALREADY DEMONSTRATED

STEMS FOR DEN, FOKSAMAN IN BANGKOK.

• MR. 100N M. SICNE IS HEAD. OF BANGKOK BASED FIRM

F ASICCIATE CONSULTANIS CORDANY LID. HE IS CHINESE, WHO

Worked With veRoshi. IN SEA DURING WWII. SUBJECT NOW REPRE-

Si:: RE-CIAN ARMS FIRMS AND IS REP FOR PILATUS PORTER

SO FOLLOWING PHNOM PENH VISIT WERBELL PLANS TRAVEL TO LAOS IN

A FILATUS FORTER, PROBABLY WITH STONE•

7. DUE RESTRICIION ON PASSING DEROG ON U.S. CITIZEN,

FELIEVE BEST APPROACH IO FOLLOW IS CAREFUL ADVICE TO LOCAL

• 2.4

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

• ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

EASONTUNIT NOTIFIER

CU

DVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

IFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP 1

(When Filled In LUNAR DONATIC

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

1

4

-ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

5

f 00

ISSEM. BY.

ICTION UNIT

•CTION NO.

PER

FILE, VR

PAGE THREE

24725 SECRET

THAT SUBJECT HAS NO OFFICIAL LNLUTE RELATION

AND CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED IN ANY BUSINESS DEAL. GP-1

SECRET

*C/S. APPARENTLY WRONG REF.

•.H:"

==

• 1.

.;e?

D

!SECRET:'

---

