‘hoa oarania

“Pages _3 Eile Pla’bs

CIA -- JFK COLLECTION |

Document Withdrawal Notice

Box/Reel# 62 | Document # _OEL-27 2 :

Folder # P Date p Tune | 96) ee oe

Agency UK, Title /Description (U) __¢ hak



ey

| peace tae
: TOL/US OFFIC. :
id REPORT MINBER_OEL-29,714 7
FROM: England, London : DATE 1_Juna_1961
NUMBER OF

: : NULBER OF

ORIGINATING

REFERENCES 1

SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DaTA AID COKJEITS:

ROL
@FIGHALS ORLY

\ & copy
’ Sie OPTS OMe on fo

AG -prt—e 2. .


i i a

pastes eas
DATE! 30th May 1062

REPORT NO: 108/756/1083

COUNTRY: OUBA

i
SCMECT " p Ouban Mxile Plans

DATE OF INFORMATION: © Current

information,

ROURCE: A source in touch with Guban exiles whose
isstssrasicea igre speculation,

whilet oéntaining @ certain element of
hae been generally acourate in the pas!

REMARKS:


7156/1003

WeSebte

Altkourh plans for a second fuvesion of Cuba hive Loon drew up by
tho Revolutionary Coueil, ro action iy conte.yluted for the tlio boing in
Ordué to wow the roporoucsions of the lest uttant to die dom
2 The main oxilo forces acre rut co-vitted on 17th April, 193% ard
thore 13 no Zock of trained ren rd ogudjamnt.

3. Th Revolutionary Council 10 104 concoutratizg on tiw following taska
0) the wiflection of the various cuti-GA3TRO oxile yroupo
®) contacting anti-CASTRO (rouyo 1..0ide Cuba.
4e Tho sadn Logaoa lournt ty the Revolutionary Cquncil, cu a result of
tle rusont fracsco to that ro drvecton oun sucouod uitil sufficlunt aupport

43 ucoured fro: nenbors of CéSTLO's Militin. to aotion will Le token

until this sqyort hap boon orcuntocde

Se ‘Tho Revoluticnary Council sA21 acouyt the sorvices of « foreignur in

the crue ogalnut Ch8TRO, ,roviaed 1.u cots from a do:corasy, The

A Comniint Loyion new bois? rafood in

services of fwriecso in the
Worida +14 Toxo will bu welnorede
be Guurrille uotivity dnsit, Cute her ccnued urdor prorcure of CASTRO'S

Wilitios
flow wat = week buTore the L vector,

One of the juorrill: luuers 4a the Boowbrsy new 12DRIBE woo
Ais new in TW,  daother naced

Wrgue As ds. i4einy: in HAM.
Te proscat no Cuba. oxile activity ii. Gusto-.nla or Moaraguay,

aA the ents ii these coustries Love ben close] do:w., Now cata will

Aft is

groin be ostcclishod ones L.tervst hos flecred wal chu Cunty ialans overeo.io

their feor cf + Urdted Nations f: vecti ation.
Ro arrived du: Gute. mle fron Vuneguula

8. Ore ,touy of 12 Cubes. exiles
Thoy ary now in NEI.

11, 1961, four’ ers, 3 Choro Gi

co, 19%
Ge The S.ver.cnts of cixico cut Brazil sre :nsouuverii.: to delay any

solrtion to tho Cubsn yrobles usesce tho ;reunt vitustion Lulya tho

L:dustrics 4: Leth ecuntrics.

Sti | SRORET MS OATES Oily

CP = td CA A

