# 104-10216-10038

## Page 1

104-10216-10038

DISPATCH

ASSir ICATION

SECRET

TO

IFD.

JETuty Ghief, Rh/C

ohior, turojesa iivision

FRDIA

better of station, dinat

SUBJECT

Chief of statton, Hadeld

Identification el tomanist tarty unt OSE crabera

ACTION REQUIRED • REFEREKCES

PROCESSFIGACTION

MARKED FOR SCEIIRO

NO INDENIS REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXIRO

MICROFILM

Lo The following was profared by. Paul do kidlack.

2, Die information below was acquired through qUiLB interrogation of

vC-3120, Angel AVilO Herrero, a Cuban refugee and jormer resident of Havana

Ity who left Cuba on 8 Hay 1957.

intil icrober 1900, he was omployed by

the klouis (construction windotry), liavand.

member and holds the rank of army lieutenante

scribud as baucasian, about g'lun tall, weight about 145

pounds, 34-35 yee's ald, straight black hals.

3.

The information below was acquired through sum73 interrogation of

C62982, Julio Analdo HEFliNDEZ Arencibia, a luban refugee and former resident

of Marianas, who left Cuba on 21 August 1966 on board the luban motorship lidas,

on which he was employed as a wiper.

He deserted the ship on 19 lovanber 1966

in Senturce, bilbao, spain. In 1958, wben source was 16 years old, he belonged

to tie 2oth of duly sovement and was a close friend of zoth of july nobers,

tits friendship with

the latter continued at least until April 1966, when Luis PERhANdid arranged for

jource to work for the dazbisaa Navigation enterprise.

Attachnent: Spaniah language Ran Report

Diatribution:

2j DC Wa/6, s/att

2 - C/EUR, N/o att

1 - 605, dandie, n/o att

Group 1 - Exeluded from

atonatle dograding

and declassification

CROSS REFERENCE TO

PHILASH-I

EUBELA SECADES, ROLANDE

201-252234

BATE

DISPATCH STINSOR AND NUMBER

0544-22724

ELAFICATION

SACRIT

20 June 1967

AGE FILE NUMBER

65-63813

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SBCRET

LISATCH SIMBOL AND NUMBER

OSMA 22724

Das Leutenant, borke an an inveatigator for tle

110 pounds, about 3u yeara old, wary binet hair, elflicted with

racial acno, Lives et do. o Calle s1t108, batween Layo and sen

de de1y90 & 1957

Chevrolet painted Light crean olore

OR "HERNANDEZ Gus, 1s employed da Auditor Interrorador (Judge

Advocate?) by the ins and acto as pubile accuser in important

ke is deseribed au Esucasian, about 5'%" tall, weight

190 pounde, 24 jear. old, straight brown hair, lives et io. 6

Calle Maloja, betrem Aguila and Ingeles, Havala, drivos a 1958

Ford painted white and black.

Luis AFRHADE, Olier of the ist investigative group, lo do

saribed as lisueasien, about 6'1" tail, atrongly bullt, weight

about 200 pounds, vory lon forshead and kairline, large round

Paco, thick lips, anall sunken eyes, 24 years old, lives at

either lo, 2U5 or lc, 255 Galle Florida, betucen leperanza ane

Vives, Havane City, on the top floor.

He is married to hary

(Im), bas no chilaren, le has thres autosobiles: a 1959

Plymouth patated whito, a bottle green 1957 tontlac, and a

black 1957 bulek.

In February or llarch 1967 he participated

In tha capture of a group of persons atteapting to leave laba

clandestinaly via Maja de Cuanabo.

do Personnel of the laban motorship IMAS:

(1) Captain Oscar ll "CHE appears not to be & Comnist; he

speaks. vory bedly of the luban and soviet systens, and

treats the creu vary well, le is described as Caucasten,

6' tall, weight about 200 pounds, about 27 yeare ola,

straight black hais, woars glasses and, on occasion,

contact lensos.

(2) "ARIAS Lezemo (fm), Mirat Mate, la one of the most hated

men on board. le is very pro-rogine und unhesitatingly

denounces cren nenbers. He is described as Carcarden, 5'2"

tall, reight about 230 pounds (aie), about 33 yeare old,

wavy blond hai?, wears a mall beardo

(3) Jel10 *SARDIRAS, Bird Hate, recently graduatod from the

Hariel Aeadery, 16 described as a Wil nember, linicaalan,

5'5 tell, weight about 130 jounda, about 25 fears o1d,

balding but with some blond hair renaining.

Echan #. RATTERKE

Asenting to the le separa éponie ficad

in 65-4-3813) SANTANA O FERNANDEZ LE

MAGE, TERRANDES Ete.

presento.

A GASSIFICATION

$ 530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CONTINUED

san"

---

