# 104-10192-10026

## Page 1

104-10192-10026

14

300-20

"INDEN I TIS ONO -

CLAJSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIP TO FLE NO :

# HER TO FILE NO -

SECRET

FRE RID C!

BE? TO MANCH C

FROM UMWAVE

CESTROY O SO -

ACTION:

INFO

IW

IX RID CÓPY SIOPY ISSUED TO: CS/DO

AT 2210

DC ALE.

ADDP.

DOPA PEO, • CA PROP,

anc 7..

CS/DO, bH 8, HM/C12,

500 4, CI/PS, CAVO 4, FI/AV, DO/H.

ACTED 2.

(REVISED #-031

:6036

nets 19g

ROUTING

8

DD)

F/D . FINT 6,

11: 18%.

DIA CHO RETEN BAR CITE MAVE SOCH

28 OCT gi 522 65

IN 81917

INTEL TYPIC

256 7616

SUPDATA: INTABBY-27 ON 25 OCT FROM SUSU 281-282573 WHO "CUBAN

EMIGRE" IN TEXT. DO NOT USE TRUE NANE.

R10:

INDEX BOSCH, AND

AP

GUTIERRET

There tea

FILED: 2723162

REPORT GLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM

Ti209242

lime

X-AHIC ES

SUBJ: REMARKS OF ORLANDO DUSCH AVILA, HEAD. OF THE MIRR, CONCERNING:

PLANS TO DISRUPT THE EXODUS: OF CUS-INS FROM CAMARIOCA BY

LAUNCHING IN ATTACK AGUINST THE NOITH COAST OF CUBA

24 OCT 65

DO I :

IW COMMENT:

LEROFILMED

NOV 2 3.56

DULMiLHO. SER

WH/C

12

8

19-300-20

TOCSD8-315/035726594765

PRIORITY

XI ROUTINE

BASED ON

UFG-7676

NP (AMTASBY-27)

DATE DISTRIBUTED

28 OCTOBER. 1965

05032

LALNIE M. ZIE83

LIAISON:

RACLUDED

OUR AUTOMATIC

DOWNORADING AND:

ORCLAISIPICATION

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED:

Copy Na

---

## Page 2

ADO 19-I 199 PIYAOLE EOMPONE

INDE DYES DMO

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO ..

# REF TO FILE NO

TOM:

ACTION

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

BILE WID D

HET TO SAANCH D

DESTROY D 510

3

(REVISE) 4-03)

MIG 1+S

ROUTING

5

7

18

TrITA U3

(X) RID COPY

VR, FILE, ADOP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP. CI/OPS, Q/06% F,

FI/D . A/INT

PAGE 2

IN 81917

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (27 OCT 65)

UFG 7676

SOURCE: A CUBAN EMIGRE WHO IS ASSOCIATED WITH ACTIVISTS IN THE AREA

OF MIAMI, FLORIDA. SOURCE IS REGARDED AS RELIABLE, AND PREVIOUS.

REPORTING FROM HIM HAS PROVED TO BE ACCURATE.

IN COMMENT.

TDCS

/ ROUTINE

BASED ON:

PRIORITY

RELEASING I WOr

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

LAJSON:

AUTOMATIE

AND

ABIFICATION

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 15

Copy Na

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Al'tin filled dri

NO FORESA DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEN

SECRET

• CENTRAL

iNTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

ROUT INE

COUNTRY CUSA

TDCS DB-315/03521-65

DATE OF

INFO

24 OCTER 1965

DISTR. 28 OCTOBER 1965

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI

- SUBJECT.

REMARKS. OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEA OF. THE MIRR,

TRON CAN RAN TO RESENT AN ATE A CURAN

NORTH CONSIDE CUBA

(27 OCTOBER 1965)

REF

IN EI917

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-7676

APPRAISAL A CUES EMIGRE-WHO IS ASSOCIATED WITH ACTIVITISTS IN THE AREA OF MIAMI, • FLORIDA.

SELA AS REGARDED AS RELIABLE, AND PREVIOUS REPORTING FROM HIS HAS PROVED TO

-1. ON 34 OCT OE ORLANDO SOSCH AVILA, MEAD OF THE NG/IMIENTO

INSURRECIONEL DE RECURERACION RE:CLUCIONARIA (MIRR, INSUPRECTIONAL

MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY), IN COMPANY WITH "MIMO",

HIS MILITARY CHIEF, AND TO OTHER UNNAMED PERSONS TOOK

A CUBAN EMIGRE TO A HOUSE IN MIAN, FLERIDA, AND SONED HIM

A ST-MM RECOLLESS REELER FIELD COMMENT: "1ND" IS FACEASLY

TOENTICAL ATHE CERVEGIO ENTIERREZ CONCERCION, LO IS BELIEVED TE

MAKE BOMSS FOR THE MIRR.

BOSÜH GUESTIONED THIS EMIGRE CONCERNING

HIS KNOWLEDGE OF 57-MN RIFLES AND THE EMIGRE APPEARED TO SATISFY

SOSCH THAT HE DID AN FACT HAVE SNOWLEDGE. OF THE

USe Er SucH WEAPONS.

This material arenes information affesting the National Defense of the

United Stales mihin the meaning of the Espirage

Lame a see see peas itin with " TimO NO TOREIGN DISSEN CONTROLLED ISSEM

prohibited by saw

793 and 79d tae transmission or revelation,

of hich in lady manner to an unauthorized peran is

SECRET

Поет 405h0 & 996

STATE/INR, DLA

AIRTIACSI NAVY

AIR: ICS. SECDES. NSA NIC

OCI ONE OCR

EXO

D/001 =. CIA/NMCC, FRI: LENS,

TREASURY, CUSTOMS. FAN, ERIDER PATROL, COAST GUARD

---

## Page 4

14-00000

NO FOREICE ASTER CONTROLEO DISSET • IS SIOUT.

TDCS D8-325/03521/Fads 2

SECRET

2. DURING THEIR MEETING BOSCH AND "MIMO" TELE THE EMIGRE

THAT THE MIR HAS BEEN WORKING WITH A GROUP SUMER REBEL ABAN

MEMBERS IN MIAMI: REGARDING THE LAUNCHING OF LN CERATION DIRECTED

AGAINST THE NORTH COAST DE CUBAL ITHIS OPERATION IS INTENDED TO

DISRUPT THE EXODUS OF CUBANS FROM CAMARIOCA, CLES, AND TO PROVOKE

THE GOVERNMENT OF CUSA INTO ENDING ITS POLICY SE COEXISTENCE WITH

THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT•

3.

BOSCH STATED THAT THE MIRR NOW HAS THREE CERATIONS UNDER

CONSIDERATION. ONE INVÓLVES A COMMANDO-BOAT $41O ON SANTA CRUZ DEL

NORTE, HAVANA PROVINCE, USING A 57-MM RIFLE.

:15 ITS PRINCIPAL

WEAPON. THE SAME TYPE OF OPERATION IS ALSO BEING CONSIDERED FOR USE

AGAINST THE ARECHABALA REFINERY IN CARDENIS, MI: NZAS PROVINCE.

À THIRD OPERATION WOULD BE AN ATTACK AT SEA AE-INST A CUBAN PATROL

BOAT, ALSO USING A 57-MM RECOILLESS RIFLE. ROSEM ALSO MENTIONED

THE POSSIBILITY OF USING AN AIRCRAFT AGAINST THE TARGETS OF SANTA

CROZ DEL NORTE AND THE ARECHABILA REFINERY.

4..: THE MIRR. AND THE REBEL ARMY GROUP HAVE SEEN ARGUING AS

TO WHO: SHOULD TAKE CREDIT FOR THE ATTACK WHEN !: IS ANNOUNCED.

SINCE THE REBEL ARMY GROUP IS TO FURNISH THE EXIT, THE MEMBERS OF

THIS GROUP THINK THAT THEY SHOULD BE CREDITED WITH THE OPERATION.

: 5. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, I&NS, CUSTOMS, FA, BORDER PiTPOL, IND USCG.

(ALSO SENT PANAMA CITY.)

SECRET

END OF MESS: €5

NO FOR JET DISSEN CONTROLLED DISSEN

---

