# 104-10322-10186

## Page 1

104-10322-10186

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIA

Mr. Evans

VER

3

5

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Attached is material for the House Assassinations

Committee (Mr. Berk Requested). Roger Gabrielson

has reviewed and requested we provide him the

attached for Berk's review here at Headquarters,

no relaase to the Committee.

that pertain to kennedy and Oswaly the parts

Tita ra ple but eding

BRE TO SENDER

NO PHOMOR

тонн на 237

1 -87

JIm Pictuant

UNCLASSIFIED

Usa previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

3

Jul 78

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND MR. RANKIN, GENERAL

COUNSEL OF COMMITTEE ON THE ASSASSINATION

12 May 1964

2:50 PM returned DCI's call

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

if ;you'd be so good as to appear personally before the Commission

and testify very briefly.

Yes, I'll do that.

Now, all they want to deal with is the question of your knowledge

about Oswald being an agent or informer or ánything of that

character. They also would like to deal with your knowledge of

any conspiracy, either domestic or foreign and that kind of thing.

We are going to have Edgar Hoover on Thursday at nine to deal

pretty much with the same thing. I think we might also ask,

Mr. McCone, a little bit about the question of security precautions

for the President that you might suggest in a very general way,

things that might have occurred to you. I;m sure you know the

President is very sensitive about that area for himself. That is,

he thinks that sometimes it's just an interference with things he'd

like to do.

Well, all Presidents think that. President Eisenhower used to

complain about that all the time and so did Kennedy.

And since this testimony is all going to be made public, I thought

you might want to keep that in mind. You will have some thoughts

about possibly in the domestic area or in the foreign are a or both,

in that regard, that they would like to have from you.

Alright, I'd be glad to come up.

Would 10:30 or 11:00 on Thursday be at all convenient.

Sure, that's be fine.

Which would you prefer?

Well, I'd prefer 10:30, I have a 12:30 luncheon. You have Mr.

Hoover at 9:00/

I think that we should be well out of the way by then.

Well, suppose I come up at 10:30 and if you run over, well, I can

just wait.

=.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

!

•R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

Fine.

Where is this, Mr. Rankin?

200 Maryland Avenue, NE and it's cater-cornered from the

Supreme Court Building, it's the Veteran's Foreign War

Building on the fourth floor.

It's a white marble building...

I'll find it.

If you have any questions about anything that occurred to you

beforehand and you want to ask me, don't hesitate to call me.

Should I come alone or do you want me to bring somebody with

me?

Whatever your pleasure.

I see.

It makes no difference as far as the Commission..•

I'll tell you what I'll do. I will bring with me the man that's

been principally involved in answering any questions that you've

had. I know you've had some.

And if something occurs to you why we'll just let ;you go off the

record and ask him if there's something that ;you don't feel that

you could answer yourself and you want to get a little refreshing

from him.

Alright, fine. I'll be there. Tell me, how are you getting along

with this Buchannan matter?

Well, we've been debating that over here and we're quite unhappy

with

that fellow. I got a note today saying that in the preface to

his London edition he says that he talked i this over with someone

in the Commission and that the entire text of his report is has

been filed in Washington with the Commission. He's apparently

trying to give some respectability to it in that way. Some of the

* Commission think that we should call him, some think that it

would just advertise him if we do.

I realize that, and you're always up against that problem of

dignifying a book or report; however, I was rather distrubed at

a discussion I had a week ago with Mrs. Fluer Cowles Meyer

lives in London, and; you knew her as Fluer Cowles when she

was married to Mike Cowles and she told me of the extent to

---

## Page 4

13-00000

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

R:

DCI:

which Buchannan had captured the radio and television audiences

in Great Briton and on the continent and went so far as to say that

unless the Commission's report dealt with his allegations and

charges with a good deal of finality, there would be quite a feeling

that the report itself was a whitewash and that the real facts had

not been developed.

Well, we had in mind to take every point that he raised, and Mark

Lane and every other person that's commented that way in a separate

section and just proceed to knock everyone of them clear out.

That might do it. I spoke to the Chief Justice about it. The fact

is I think he talked to Fluer about it.

He's one of the strongest against calling him. Did he indicate

that to you?

Yes, he indicated that to me, and for the reason that he was it

afraid that it would just advertise him. I know that, because I

get up against that with every book or article that's written criticizing

the Central Intelligence Agency. I have a certain number of people

who want you to get right on the stump and deny it and when you

analyze it, all you've done is advertise what has been said.

Right.

But nevertheless, I think your position is considerably different

than the one I mentioned.

You think about it, whether you think that if we dress ourselves

directly to it in a separate section of the report with all of these

claims made by people like that, whether you think that might

be better than to try to call him here and just have him put on

a show. I think they might like an off the record comment from

you if you'd care to make one.

I'll give some thought about it between now and Thursday. Alright

fine.

Thank you.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

5)

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN

11:20 a.m. - 4 May 1964

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

I am calling you because last night we had a guest for dinner,

a mutualfriend yours and mine, by the name of fleur Cowles

Montague-Meyers.

Whom I know very well.

Now, she engaged me in a conversation at dinner concerning

this Buchanan report and she was very disturbed about it because

of the very great impact that she feels it is having in England

was very disa

and throughout Europe. Buchanan has been on IV and on radio,

both in Britain and on the continent.

And he has got a book coming out on the 8th.

And he has got a book coming out and she feels that essential

in your report that you dispose of his allegations or indiate

the errors on which he draws his conclusions. She feels so

strongly that she told me that if this were not done, there would

be a very strong feeling among groups in Europe that this whole

investigation was a whitewash and that we didn't get to the bottom

of the thing. Now, strangely enough, there was an article that

appeared in the Washington Post on Saturday, which you undoubtedly

read.

Is that the one by John Henshaw?

No, the one by Chalmers Roberts.

I didn't see the Roberts one, but I have one by Henshaw - I'm

just reading it right now. I have it before me. Ithought that was

probably what you were calling me about. It is from the Inquirer.

Yes, I have seen that, but that is a kind of sensational thing.

Chalmers Roberts, ask your girl to get. ...

Let's see, that wasn't in the News. That was in the Post.

Yes,

it was in the Post.

Yes, I read Roberts. Saturday morning, I read that, saying that

he thought we ought to go into all of these things.

Now, Fleur is in town today. She is leaving this evening. She

would like very much and it might be worth your time if she could

drop in and just give you, herself, what she told me last night.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

(

I don't know whether you would want to do that.

Well, I know Fleur. Would like to talk to her. I usually see

her when she is here. I am a little surprise that she would

doubt that we wouldn't do such a thing.

Well, you know, sometimes these girls get quite steamed up

about things.

We have taken closer to 400 than 300 witnesses' testimony.

and we have taken it deliberately so that nobody can say that

we have just been rubber stamped for the Secret Service or

the f Bl or anybody else.

Well, I told her in great detail at dinner because you had told

me only a few days ago, the depth and the penetration of your

inquiry.

We haven't yet finished and I would think, John, between you

and me, that we ought to take this book of Buchanan when it

comes out and scrutinize it carefully to see that there is nothing

that we have overlooked. Because if he has any allegations in

there concerning witnesses who have information we ought to

hear them and we will do that. I don't - I hesitate calling him

to testify because that might be just what he is looking for to

get the sounding board for another book and I don't want to do.

Well, you have to be careful about that until you at least see

the book. Now, I thought this Chalmers article was very strange

coming (1) by Chalmers Roberts and (2) in the Washington Post.

It sounded so to me.

However, it is interesting that Buchanan worked for the Washington

Post in 1949.

Wasn't it the Star?

No, I am told he worked for the Post. Now, I may be wrong on that.

Well, I just saw in one of the papers the other day he was originally

a Star reporter here.

He could have been either.

Could have been either and sometimes those fellows shift from one

newspaper to the other.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:.

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

(

(

This is utt not the kind of thing Chalmers usually indulges in.

No, it was entirely foreign to his - to areas that are normal.

to him.

The thing that I didn't like about it, he rather intimated that

this came from some source within the Commission.

I didn't read that into it. But you would be more alert to that

than I. Well, in any event what shall I do ?

Well, I'll be glad to doe fleut and tali to her.

I'll have her call you up.

Yes, ybu may tell her as far as this is concerned, we have no

intention of letting go uninvestigated any phase of it any of these

people have brought up.

Well, it is always peasant to see her anyway, you know.

It is always pleasant to see her and I'll be glad to see her.

She is going to call me in a little while and I'll tell her to give

you a ring.

Fine. Say, John, in this one about - of Henshaw's. Let me see

if I can find it quickly here - he alleges that the Central Intelligence

Agency was using Ruby to recruit commandos for raids against

Castro's Cuba. To prevent this explosive information from being

disclosed, the CIA asked the Justice Dept. to step in and stop the

Dallas police from arresting Ruby as well as Oswald. This was

supposed to be last April and then it says, a top secret document

a letter signed by a high official of the Justice Dept. was sent in

April 1963 from the Justice Dept. to the Dallas Chief of Police,

Jesse E. Curry requesting the Dallas police not to arrest Oswald

and Ruby in connection with the attempted slaying of Gen. Walker.

There is no truth in that. Let me get you all the dope on that.

Oh, I'm just positive there is no trugh in it. The only thing is I'm

trying to find a way where we can counteract any such thing

because that paraded over Europe and around the world is a terrible

thing. Do you know anything about this so-called Inquirer?

No.

I don't either. I tell you how I saw it. My driver bought it.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

......."

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

DCI:

W:

It is apparently an insert in some paper he bought on the stands

yesterday and he doesn't remember which it was. It looks to

me like New York news print.

I don't know from where it came. In fact I didn't see that article

until tast night when Fleur was leaving, I sent out to try to find

the Chalmers article and they came back with this Inquirer article.

But that is the first time I had seen it. I guess it came out in

one of the Sunday papers.

Yes.

We get the Star, Times,

Herald-Tribune and the Post, so it was

one of those four.

I am sure that the Roberts one was in the Post.

Yes, Saturday morning. Fine Earl.

All right, John. Thank you very much for calling and we will

find a way to meet this whole thing and I will be happy to see

Fleur Cowles.

Fine.

DCI:

(tape) mcm

---

## Page 9

13-00000

(

s..9

27

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND J. EDGAR HOOVER

26 November 1963 - 11:20 a.m.

DCI:

H:

DCI:

H:

DCI:

H:

DCI:

H:

I just want to be sure that you are satisfied that this Agency

is giving you all the help that we possibly can in connection

with your investigation of the situation in Dallas. I know

the importance the President places on this investigation

you are making. He asked me personally whether CIA was

giving you full support. I said that they were, but I just

wanted to be sure from you that you felt so.

We have had the very best support that we could possibly

expect from you.

Good. Well you can call on us for anything we have.

We will feel free to do that

I think it is an exceedingly important investigation and report

and I am delighted that the President has called on you to

make it.

We are trying to do it as fast as we can so we can dispel various

wild rumors that have been circulating as to whether this man

was the right man etc, that fired the gun. But there is no question

that he is the right man. There are a lot of aspects that we have

dug up, for instance, with regards to the matter in Mexico City.

We have now found that the photograph that was taken was not

that of Oswald. We do find from our informant down there that

Oswald did call at the Embassy that day and the informant has

given us the conversation that he had. He wanted to get a permit

to go back to Russia and the Cuban Embassy couldn't give him

the permit. The Soviet Embassy stated that it would take three

weeks. He had, I think, a visitor's permit for about a week or

ten days so that is why he came back to the United States.

Well, all of that ties in importantly into the story and we have

those operational sources down there.. We want to handle them

very carefully. It involves some very high level people down

there. Sam Papich and I have talked about that a couple of times.

Katz- lach

.... *****

Mr. Katzenbach

who is handling it for the Department-

it is our intention when the Bureau finishes the report, he will

of course go over it very carefully because it will be

a report

that will be released to the public, probably through the White

---

## Page 10

13-00000

10)

(

House, but it is the intention after it is in final form to be

checked with each of the Government agencies that are mentioned

in it. State Department is involved in regard to the issuing of

the passport to the man to come back to this country and that

has got to be explained why it was done, the law requires it, etc.

all of which of course we are gathering. The aspects of the

Mexico City thing. It will have to be mentioned. It is his

intention to check with the agencies, Secret Service, etc. to be

sure that whatever is said in the report is conferred in and it

is agreed to by the various agencies mentioned. So you will

have that opportunity to go over it and see exactly what is said

and I know he will welcome any suggestion that you care to make.

Well that will be fine.

Thank you

Good bye.

DCI:

H:

(tape) mcm

Cc: DDCI

DD/P

---

## Page 11

13-00000

#17T

L:

LY

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND DR. MILTON EISENHOWER

27 November 1963 - 10:25 a.m.

E:

DCI:

E:

I have a little problem here which I think you can help with. A professor

of Russian history who has spent many years studying the details of

the Rusian Secret Police is convinced in his own mind, based on a

study of their methods and other developments, that the assassination

of President Kennedy was engineered by the Police. Now, he is so

convinced of his being right that if he doesn't do anything else he would

like to give a public lecture on this theory and I am just a little afraid

that in the emotional environment at the moment, that this might be

given more attention by the public than it may deserve. I have persuaded

him at least to wait until the evidence which President Johnson has

insisted be developed and be given to the American public, so at least

he could weigh this against that.

But he wants to get it off his conscience

and what I am wondering is this: Do you have a couple of knowledgeable

subordinates who wbuld be willing to take the time let him come over

and simply state his thesis in order to relieve his conscience and

perhaps in this way he will give up doing anything else. I don't know

how important this

is.

Well, I think it is very important because the unfortunate slaying of

Oswald removes any opportunity to establish from direct testimony

the possibility of any such international plot and I am being beset by

communications from all parts of the world by people feeling they know

of an assassination plot by the KGB or more frequently assassination

plots by Cuba of which Oswald was merely the trigger man. And of

course investigation of those is a very important part of this study the

FBI is making which we are supporting in every possible way. Now

I think it would be extremely useful to talk to this man. We have men

who are students of this particular area of activity and if you would

give me his name..

It is Professor Robert Slusser. Professor of Russian history. He is

more than a historian. He worked with Mosley at Columbia for some

years where a deep study of the Russian Secret Police was made. He

has also had foreign experience, but mainly what I want to give him

an opportunity to do is to talk to a couple of knowledgeable peoplea

in absolute confidence hoping that this will satisfy him and not lead

to his making public statements.

DCI: How do I reach him?

I think the best thing to do -- I could give you his telephone number but

I think the best thing to do is if you can set up an appointment with someone

---

## Page 12

13-00000

at a particular time and place is to call me back and I will see to it

that he is there. Wouldn't this be the easiest thing to do?

DCIP Probably would be.

E:

By the way I have a direct line and just tell your secretary she can

get me on BElmont 5 4088 in Baltimore.

DCI: I'll call you right back.

E:

Thank you Sir.

(taped) mcm

---

## Page 13

13-00000

Mr. Elder:

Copy to Warner?

Anybody else?

1.0

marge

---

## Page 14

13-00000

#179

DES 0.37

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND SENATOR RUSSELL

2 December 1963 - 12:30 p.m.

DCI: I called you either on Thursday or Friday to tell you of this matter

that had been developing in Mexico City in connection with a fellow --

Nicaraguan -- presumably had some information and reported to us

he had some information on Oswald having received some money in the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. This (fellow) was greatly disturbed, -

we went into it in great detail with the Mexican authorities and with the

Nicaraguan Foreign Intelligence Service. Finally it blew up because

this fellow finally signed a statement on Sunday that everything he said

was a falsehood and he was inisrepresenting because he was trying to win favor

about things like that and I wanted to keep you fully advised.

R: Thank you very much. When did it clear up?

DCI: Cleared up yesterday afternoon -- about noontime -- but it was thoroughly

run down and we think disposed of.

R: But he had been down in the Cuban Embassy hadn't he?

DCI: Yes he had been down in Mexico City seeking a passport and travel papers

to go to Havana and from Havana to Moscow.

These were refused but

he spent from September 26th to October 3rd in Mexico City during which

time he had a number of contacts with both the Cuban and Soviet Embassies

but our information which is from extremely sensitive sources indicates

he was there in the interest of getting travel rights. What I think he hoped

was he could escape quickly from Dallas and follow that course.

R: Wonder where he expected to get the money?

DCI: I don't know. We gave him $450 to bring him back from Russia.

R: And they say he paid that back.

DCI: That is what I understand.

R:

Well, I have just raised hell about bringing back everyone of these fellows

who went off and renounced their citizenship. I have fought and fought it.

- '*

---

## Page 15

13-00000

I have complained to the President, and to the Secretary of State. I

have done it for the last 4 or 5 years, even while Eisenhower was President.

It is a disgrace to pay their way back here when (....) on this country.

Let them stew in their own juice as far as I am concerned.

DCI: Well ...

R: Well, thanks for calling.

DCI: All right, fine, and if anything along this line develops -- delighted you

are serving on that committee. That will be a very important thing.

R: I am certainly not delighted. I really think the President took unfair

advantage of me. He called me and talked to me about going on that

committee, who he could get on there and I didn't think any of the

Supreme Court judges would serve and I told him I didn't think they.

should, so he said, well, they had to have a judge. I said well get

Madina (phonetic) or somebody like that and the next thing I knew he

called me and said here is the committee I just announced to the press

and he had me on there and there wasn't anyway in the world I could

get out of it then. I haven't got time to do it in the first place and not of

the disposition and I just don't like Chief Justice Warren either.

DCI: Well, I am afraid you are on the committee anyway.

R: I just can't figure how to get out of it now.

DOl: Well, I'll keep you posted.

R: All right. Thank you very much.

(taped) mcm

---

## Page 16

13-00000

#8

(

T3P CS BT

2 December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with the President, 11:00 a.m., November 30th,

in attendance MI. Bundy, meeting lasted approximately

1 1/2 hours

1. Reviewed the Checklist. The President immediately

raised the question of what we were doing about Colonel Chennault.

He expects most serious public reaction and has a feeling that we

are "drifting" on this situation. I assured him we and the Venezuelan

government were doing all that was possible. However, he requested

more positive action on a report on the actions being taken.

NOTE: Wish a full report from the station for Sunday

morning briefing.

2. No other Checklist items raised any serious questions.

3. The President again raised the question of what we were

going to do in Cuba. Bundy advised that a policy meeting was scheduled

for Monday, time not set, to discuss Cuban policy. I pointed out to

the President the statements of President Kennedy on September 5th,

September 13th, and November 20th, 1962 and then I showed the evidence

that proved absolutely that arms had been imported into Venezuela from

Cuba. I stated that most positive efforts should be made immediately

to secure complete OAS agreement on a course of action which would

involve a series of steps ranging from economic denial through blockade

and even to possible invasion, but that it must be OAS action, otherwise

it would involve confrontation with Khrushchev. I stated that if the

action was a Hemispheric action I didn't see that the USSR could do

much about it. The President agreed but decided to await the policy

meeting on Monday.

NOTE: DD/P and WH should prepare full recommendations

for positive actions which might be taken unilaterally with

the Caribbean states or with the OAS. for my use in the

policy meeting.

---

## Page 17

13-00000

NBR

12 442027

10Y

(

4. I reviewed the report from Mexico City station, 27 November,

advising the number of Soviets in Cuba, indicating that this report which

we thought was quite responsible more or less verified our own current

estimates.

5. Reference the Oswald matter, reviewed with the President

CAS Mexico City 7127 reporting on the interrogation of Alvarado. We

briefly discussed the composition of the Review Board announced by

the President on the 29th. Discussion of the Oswald situation was

inconclusive and no action required.

6.

The President then brought up the question of

and I reviewed briefly the intelligence community's feeling of concern

and their view that our

relationship was of the greatest

importance.

Bundy mentioned the forthcoming December meeting

and General Taylor. The President made no comment

but seemed to feel that Taylor should remain in the United States

because of serious Defense budget problems.

Bundy reviewed the

great number of commitments we have madel

and that we

would come to their defense

The President expressed the greatest of confidence in

not given him a feeling of confidence in our motives and that he had

drifted into the thought that we would abandon him

He stated that he wished this corrected in a most positive manner.

7. I reviewed our Cuban overflight program advising the

President of the USIB criteria and the extent to which flights were

being carried on.

8.

Reviewed briefly the

overtlight and stated

these had been stood down since the loss of the last plane but we intended

to resume which the President thought was proper.

ACTION: I wish flight plans to meet

targets for at least two flights for submission to the

Special Group next Thursday.

9. I advised the President that the

flights

had been completed and that we now planned to briefl

I stated the equipment had been withdrawn

- 2=

---

## Page 18

13-00000

-. +

10. I advised the President that the CORONA mission was up

and would be brought down on Monday. Also suggested that at an

early opportunity I brief him on the CORONA program.

11. Reviewed the Venezuela overflight plan as outlined in

memorandum for the Special Group and President approved.

NOTE: I have communicated this approval to General

Carter and instructed him to proceed.

JAM:mcm

(tape)

---

## Page 19

13-00000

0

2

182

SEGRET

29 November 1963

Late developments on the Mexico City investigation of

Oswald's activities

1.

3

5

Results of the first interrogation of Silvia Duran have been received.

Reveals nothing other than confirmation of Oswald's effort to secure

authority to enter USSR via Havana, His requests were refused.

Result of second interrogation of Silvia Duran has not at yet been :

received®

FBI dispatched a man from Washington to Mexico City at the request

of. Ambassador Mann.

The Nicaraguan, Alvarado, has been turned over to the Mexican

autborities for questioning, by the CIA station at the specific request

of the FBI.

NOTE: CIA Headquarters refused this turn-over until

FBI request received because F Blis in control of the

investigation.

Alvarado's story becoming increasingly questionable because of a

public statement carried by Mexico City radio and press prior to

Alvarado's entering the picture, to the effect that Oewald bad

received $5, 000 from the Cuban Embassy.

sit i in

To be used by DCI in meeting with the President at 10:30 on 29 November 1963

with Secty. McNamara and Bundy.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

#4

(

26 November 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with The President - 25 November and 26 November

1. On Monday, November 25th, there was no briefing of the President,

although there was a short visit with him at the State reception on Monday

evening. The President then expressed regret that events of the day

prevented a briefing and asked if there was any development requiring his

attention. I replied there was none and would call him if any developments

came to my attention.

2. On Tuesday, the 26th, I briefed the President, reviewing all

items on the Check List and the world reaction summary contained in the

Bulletin. Briefing and discussion on other matters consumed about

15 or 20 minutes.

3. The President asked if our entire applicable resources had been

made available to the FBI in connection with their report, which he had

ordered. I replied affirmatively.

NOTE: I should call J. Edgar Hoover concerning this.

(DCI did this at 1l:20 on 11/26/63)

4. The President asked my appraisal of the situation in Vietnam.

I replied that I was less optimistic than was the report received from

Ambassador Lodge.

5. Mr. Bundy stated the first order of business was to assist

State and assign a Deputy Chief of Mission capable of running the Country

Team and the American official community. Bundy recommended

Mr. Sullivan, Harriman's deputy. The President plans to have a man in

position not later than January first.

6. McCone stated that there remained a number of individuals in

Saigon who continued to be troublemakers and should be removed.

Bundy confirmed this and stated actions were to be taken. No names

were mentioned.

NOTE: Apparently the President's appointment

secretary will be a Mr. Moyrs. We

should get to know him.

---

## Page 21

13-00000

(

7. The President noted with some considerable contempt the

fact that certain people in the Department of Justice had suggested

to him on Saturday that an independent investigation of the President's

assassination should be conducted by a high level group of attorneys

and jurists, probably headed by Governor Dewey. President Johnson

rejected this idea, and then heard that the identical plan was to be

advanced in a lead editorial in the Washington Post.

The President

felt this was a deliberate plant and he was exceedingly critical. He

personally intervened, but failed with Mr. Al Friendly and finally

"killed" the editorial with Mrs. Graham.

JAM/ TMLee/ mfb

---

## Page 22

13-00000

#1

25 November 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Discussion with President Johnson, November 23rd,

about 9:15 a.m. The conversation lasted approxi-

mately 15 minutes.

1. The President entered Mr. Bundy's office alone and

no one was present during the conversation.

2. The President opened the conversation by recalling a

long background of association and friendship with me personally,

his respect for the Agency, the fact that on a number of issues

that had arisen since I took office as DCI he and I had seen eye

to eye, he had complete confidence in me and expressed the wish

that I continue in the future exactly as I have in the past.

3. I confirmed my confidence in him, my desire to help and

support him in every way and my willingness to continue in the

future as I have in recent months.

4. The President then asked of any world developments.

I

reviewed details of the Checklist with him and explained the institution

of the "President's Checklist" with which he was not familiar.

stated that we would continue the publication of the Checklist in the

future as we had in the past.

5. It was agreed that for the next few days I would brief the

President in the morning personally and that senior staff officers

would brief the President's staff each morning as I have in the past.

The President asked that any matters of urgent importance be brought

to his attention at any time, day or night. He designated no inter-

mediary.

---

## Page 23

13-00000

6. At 12:30 I went to the President's office in the Executive

Office Building to tell him of the information received from Mexico

City. In attendance was Mr. Bundy. Following this I had a brief

exchange with President Eisenhower who was visiting with President

Johnson at the time.

7. This evening I called Secretary Rusk and reviewed with

him the information received from Mexico City, most particularly

the holding of a Mexican employee of the Cuban Embassy by

Mexican officials for interrogation concerning Lee Oswald. I

explained to Rusk the information that we had transmitted to the

FBI and to the authorities in Dallas. Rusk had not known of these

developments prior to my communication with him.

8. I offered the assistance on the part of Mrs. McCone and

me personally and also the Agency in connection with the appropriate

handling of official visitors arriving from all over the world who

might overwhelm the State Department's capacity. Rusk appreciated

this offer and said he would call on me. He further said that there

may be visitors we would like to meet with and, if so, he would make

appropriate arrangements. He indicated that he intended to avoid

having all incoming visitors appear as guests of the United States.

Each had their own embassy to take care of them, however, he

thought there might be some obligations in which I could be helpful.

He said that following the Arlington service on Monday afternoon

he would hold a reception in the Department which would be in the

form of some kind of a buffet and this would be the extent of any

planned activities. He thought it was quite probable that the President

would meet with several Heads of States at various times on Tuesday

and Wednesday.

JAM:mcm

(tape)

---

## Page 24

13-00000

(

Sepizo

To Roc

Allamy

Piants!

•I August 196

Dear Mr. Dulles,

keepful

Herewith some materials in loose sheet form on Irotskyism

and, in particular,. Trotskyites in the U.S.

Of particular interest, I think, you will find the paper on

the differences between Trotskyism and the Communist move-

ment headed by the CP of the Soviet Union. This paper makes

eminent and clear the element of organized indiscipline which

has characterized the Trotskyite movement from its origins.

The paper also makes clear that there are two Trotskyite

factions in the U.S. Whereas both hold to the Trotskyite theory

of permanent revolution, they differ in their attitudes toward

the Soviet Union and the ruling group in the Soviet Union. The

larger - call it the orthodox faction is the Socialist Workers!

Party, headed originally by Cannon and now by Dobbs. The

Militant is its weekly organ. It was with this group that

Oswald was in contact. The key element of the Socialist Workers

Party belief, apart from permanent revolution, is support for

the Soviet Union - if and when the chips are down.

Information of a summary character on the Socialist

Workers: Party and the Militant is also included in this

collection. For convenience and comparison the material

bearing on Oswald's correspondence and views has been

reproduced and is included herewith.

---

## Page 25

13-00000

2

Inventory of Trotskyite (Socialist

Workers Party) material in OSWALD's

possession (by FBI).

---

## Page 26

13-00000

26

REPORTOF SA WARREN. C. DE BRUSYS,

FBI, DALLAS

DI. 100-10461

Corminist PartJ, USA (CPUSÁ)

2.

sociallit Workers Party (SW?)

3

Other Revolutionary-type Groups

11.0

---

## Page 27

13-00000

FD-302 (Rew. 3-0-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dato November 25, 1963

Material lo possession

i too Dallas Police Dopartnent

which had been sales

by searck sarraat by that dspartnent

on November 23,

1963,

tron 1026 Nerth Beckley Streat, Dallas,

Texas, were LES HARVEY OSHALD Das residiag, was reviewed

and the following portiosat iters relative to OSTALD'S

possible connectics yith

3 Subvarsive Organizations were noted:

Lotter by FARRELL DOBBS pritton on a letterhoad

of the Socialist Noskers Party,

¿ 1l6 Univereity Place, New

anil addressed to Mr. LES. L. CSTALD,

Bos 2915, Dallas,

19325.

This lotter roflocted that JAIlS

CANNGH TaS tho

National Chairnan and FARRELL DGSBS was

tho National Sacretary.

Thts letter roplied to OSyALD's roquest

Lot membership in the Socialist Workers Party (SMP). DOBBS

advised CSMAID in this letter that there nast be a mininan

of five nonbors betoro & brauch of the SIP can be formed

and added that it ia not the practice to take individual

members where no branch got exists. DCBS also mentioned

that thore are no branches as yet in Teras.

The lotter

suggests that OstAto saguod eubscribars to

the sillitant

and premoted the sale of socialist literature. JA charactorization

of tho 1111soat

sot fosta co the Appondix pages of this

Tils loctor 1o

datod Novoaber, 5, 1962

A latter co plate pore datad Decenber 9, 1952,

waition by Bes calstss with the aldogss set forte in the

uppos right hand corner as *115 Usivorstry Clace,

"Nsy York

3 g

New York",

, acd directed to LES 3. OSTAL), Bca 2915,

Dallas, Torus.

Tols lottar ackusalodges racsipt of

OS7ALD's letter as voll as tis reprodurtions.

The lottor

statos that CStaLD to apparently Skilled at bloy-ups,

reversals and reppeduction voss

She

rot as k15 11410n bagatiod 4a

89A23a11y.

lotter rag tas

Fact that "Te bave accoss to a small

offset shop bors 1a

foy Tock." Herever, it ras neationed

1o the lottor that in comboction vito long torn work

that cstald's stills may be ssed.

The oriter aquirse as

tha sizo of OSTALD's camera and doabludes by statiog shat

to

12 CSYALD has any costions ha gbould 290l 1rs9

to centact

003 CRISTER®

50 22/05/63-01

2411

232 X9x33

DE 69-43

Fila 7

by spacial Agons 1702505%

Go 03.3101879/222

- Dats dictorad

11/25/63

aV Socument con alis nalther secumend alone ior carolustera ole cut dis the propady el ina fel and is loured to

we gooner: land die contanta arrot to le distributed muge your peoney

---

## Page 28

13-00000

DI 89 - 43

Stack about one half inch bigh of sheets of

paper approxtrately 24" x 3g" entitled

"FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COUMITTEE, NEW ORLEANS,"

bearing blank spaces for an individual's name,

siguature, date lapued, and chapter president.

Blank Manila envelope contairing pampblets and booklets

described as follows:

Letter dated April 26,

1963, addressed to h. H.

OSWALD, P.O. Box 6915,

Dallas, Texas, from URS.

V. HALSTEAD, Pioneer Publishers, 116 University

Place, New York 3, New York, which furnished

OSTALD the words of the

"INTERNATIONALE," which

consisted of three paragraphs, including the

chorus.

The letter stated it was being furnished

at

the

addressee's request.

Booklet "THE SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY - WHAT IT IS,

WHAT IT STANDS FOR," by JOSEPH HANSEN, published

by Ploneer Publishers, 116 University Place,

New York 3, New York,

H3y, 1958 •

Page one identl

fied JOSEPH HANSEN as a candidate of the Socialist

Workers Party for U. S. Senator in New York State,

In 1946, a former editor of "THS MILITANT" and

then editor of the theoretical Marxist nagazine

"INTERNATIONALE SOCIALIST REVIEN," published at

116 University Place, New York, New York.

Pamphlet consisting of reprint of an article

"CUBA - A DISSENTING REPORT," Iron September 12,

1950 Issue of "THE NSW REPUBLIC."

This pamphlet

contains rubber stamp impression "FAIR PLAY FOR

COBA COH.?

799 Broadway, New York 3, New Jork.™

Three blank fores to be used in requesting intro

ductory four meath subscription for $1.00 to

"THE MILITANT," address of which was shown as 116

University Place, New Fork 3, Ney York.

PRophlet "THE BOÀD TO SOCIALISA" bY BLAS ROCA,

nattonal leader of the Integrated levolutionary

Organization (ORI), reprinted froz 'Cuba",

Fampblet reflected it was issued

"TIE REVOLUTIOY AUST BE A SCECOL OF UNFETTERED

THOUGHT - FIDIL CASTRO - SPEECH AT UNIVERSITY OF

HAVANA.'

It was printed by Pioneer Publisters,

116 University Place, Neg Yor: 3, April, 1952.

The inside cover stated this transation o! FIdEL

CASTRO's spooch origtrally appeared in the Aprll 2,

1952 Lasuo ce •XUB WILITAT.

---

## Page 29

13-00000

DI 89-43

Pampblet THE MC CARRAN ACT AND THE RIGHT TO

TRAVELY

,issued by the CUS RALL-BENJAMIN DAVIS

DEXENSE COMMITTEE, 22 East 17th Street, Room

1285, New York 3, New York

Pampblet. IDEOLOGY AND REVOLUTION" by JEAN-PAUL

SARTRE, lssued by FAIR PLAY FOR. CUBA COMMITTEE,

799 Broadway. New York 3, New York.

Pamphlet "CUBAN COUNTER-REVOLUTIONAIRES IN THE

THE UNITED SIATES," by V. T. LEE, past president,

Tampa Bay Chapter, PAT: PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE.

This pauphlet further identified as an

abridged version of a lecture delivered at a forum

of the New York Chapter of the FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA

CONCITTEE on March 12, 1962, and reflected'it was

Issued by that organization of 799 Broadway, New

York.

Pampblet

"THE COMING AMERICAN REVOLUTION" by

JAMIES P

CANNON. Page two of that pamphlet re-

flects it was published for the Socialist Workers

Party by the Ploreer Publishers, 116 University

Place, New York 3, New York, April, 1947- Page

three of that pasphlet identified it as "Theses on

the American Pevolution - adopted by the 12th

National Convention of the Socialist Workers Party,"

Pamphlet *CONTINENTAL CONGRESS OF SOLIDARITY WITH

CUBA - COMPLETE RESOLUTIONS, BRAZIL March 28-31,

1963," Issued by FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE,

799 Eroadwar, New York, New York.

Pamphlet PIPEECH AT THE UNITED NATIONS™ by FIDEL

CASTRO, Ceneral saembly Session, September 26,

1960, issued by FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE, 799

Broadway, New York.

Papalet "THE END 0? THE COMINTERN' ST JAMES P.

CANNON WITH THE WANISSSIO OF THE 4TH INTERNATIONAL,

which retlects it as printed for the Socialist

Wokers Party by Pioneer Fublishers, 116 University

21sc0, Now fork, September, 1913.

Page three re-

Ilects this was a speech delivered in Ney Yor on

цау 30, 1213.

7fit

---

## Page 30

13-00000

PROBABLY

/ DL 89-43

Leaflet "SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY ELECTION PLATFORM,"

urging perscos to vote on Neverber 8, year not

stated, for FARRELL DOSS for president and MIRA

TANNER WEISS for vice-president.

Catalog of NEW CENTURY PURLISHERS, 832 Broadway,

New York, which lists bunks and parphlets available?ea)

Literature list aod price list of FAIR PLAY FOR

CUBA COMMITTEE, 799 Broadway, New York 3, New York;

undated.

Literature catalog, Spring 1963, of FAIR PLAY FOR

CUBA COMITTEE.

Photographic film negative, approximately 2zw a 4}r,

which reflects "JOIN THE SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

FIGHT FOR A BETTER WORLD - WRITE BOX. 2915, DALLAS,

TEXAS."

Unised business reply matllag envelope bearing printed

addressee CostzulspERs NEY PRESS, INC., P.O. Box 28,

Madison Square Station, Her York 10, New York, which

contaised three blank subscription order forus

addressed to "TAs WORKER, 23 West 26th Street, New York

10, New York."

715

---

## Page 31

13-00000

APPENDIX

CUS HALL - BENJAMIN J. DAVIS

DEDESE COMMITTEE

A source advised on march 27, 1903,

that Gus

rALL, General Secrotary, Communist Party, United statos

Of. Angrica, (C?, USA) stated on March 26, 1962, that the

Pasty will form a now committes know as

the GUS HALL

BICIJAMIN J. DAVIS, Defense Committee, (E-DĐC) • The purpose

of this committee is to raise $100,000 for the cause of

-FAIL and DAVIS.

GUS HALL

BANJAMIN J. DAVIS

FALl and DAVIS verd indicted by & Federal Grand

Jury,

lashington, D. Co, on karch 15, 1963,

with violatios of Section 786(h) and

794,

charging them

Title 50, U.S.

Code, in that they, as General Secretary and Hational Secrotary,

Communist Party, USA, rospectively and as g-cups of its

Fational Beard,

wilfully and unlavully failed to register

20r and on behalf of the Communist Party, USA, With tho

Attornay General.

A second sourco furnished information on February

13, 1953, that the E-DDC had received a total of $41, 799.18

Io contributions for defense as of February 12, 1963:

THE MILITANT

A source advised on April 29, 1955, that "he

Militant. is stafiod, controllad and published as a

7803ly newspaper of the Socialist Workers Party (SP).

SCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

• Tho Socialiat Workers Party has baon designated

by tha Attoraoy Goral of the United States pursuant to

2I00ut179 Order 10450.

BLIZUBEIH CURLEY ELINN

A sourco coposted on May ?, 1952, that ELIZABETH

OT3L3Y FLYIN 15 Iational Chairman of the Cozunist Party:

721.

734

---

## Page 32

13-00000

FD-302 (Rov. 9-3-50)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

November 25, 1963

prin

Material In possessios of the Dallas Polico Department

which had boen solisd by search mirast by that department

on Novembor 22, 1963, fros 1026 North Bockley Street,

* Dallas.

Texas, Were LEE HARVEY OSWALD is residing, was reviewed

and the following portinset itens relutive to OSWALD'S

-possible connection with subvarsive erganizations were noted:

Lotter by FARRELL DOBBS written on a letterhead

of the Socialist Vorkers Party, 116 Univercity Place, New

Yor 3, Hew York,

and addressed to lix. led a. OSALD,

Boz: 2915, Dallas,

Tosas:

This lotter rotlocted that JAMES

P, CAIO" as the National Chairman and FARRELL DOSBS vas

the National Socretary.

This letter replied to OSPAlD's request

for membership in the Sociallst Vorkers Party (SVP). DOBBS

advisse CSHAID in this lotter that thore must be a miniman

of five nonbers before & branch of the SV can be formed

and added that 1t 13 not the practice to take individual

nonbars where no branch got exists. DCSS also mentioned

that thore ars no branches as yot in Teras. The lotter

suggests that UsUALD, siguod subscribers to the Millitant

and promoted the sale of socialist literatore. A characterization

of the militist is set forth co the Appendix pages of this

roport. Thls lotter 1o dated Novenber 5, 1962.

: A letter do plais pay dated December 9, 1962,

writton by BCB CHESTER with tho address sot forth in the

upper right hand corner as "Ils Out pretty Place, Now York

3, Jat York", and directed to LES B. OSCALD, Bez 2915

This lottor acuculedges receipt of

The lottor

states that CSIaLD 1s appasontly asilled at blor-ups,

roversals and reproduction wor's generally. Montioned in

the lotter was the fact that "Ve have accoss to a small

offset shop here in

Hew York." Erever, it was nestioned

Io the lotter that in conboction vita long term work

that CStAlD's stills pay be used.

The writer inquirad as to

tho siza of OSTALD's carera and coacludes by stating that

11: CSMAID bas auy gurations ta should isel frse to contact

BOS CHASTER.

0n-42/25,63--08-

2a11252 Texas.

by Special Agons NANALY fa_ta BLQISYS/22b

CL 89-13

File t

• Date dieroiad

11/25/63

ma dorumont conialas nal bes ise sanerda one dor conciustery do the lU!. 1119 the property al lon FB! and 1a loaned s

---

## Page 33

13-00000

Information as of

16 July 1963

Soclalist Workers Party

Membership 500

National Chairman

Mr. Farrel Dobbs

Travel Correspondence Mr. Joseph Hanson

Youth Group - Young Socialist Alliance

---

## Page 34

13-00000

Union Calendar No. 1069

House Report No. 2559

87th Congress, 2d Session

У

15%.1

45.

1961

4,5. Gong no. Trees.

COMMITTEE ON

UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

handlet the Committic.n

Unamicon detractio;:

ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR 1961

NovEMBEr 5, 1962. Committed to the Committee of the Whole House

on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

Prepared and released by the Cuminittee on Un-American Activities

U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, D.C.

01104

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

WASHINGTON : 1962

---

## Page 35

13-00000

TUAI REFORT I

THE YEAR 1961

(

5

crable number of organizations which are under Communist control

and which are very obviously promoting Communist objectives,

nithough they have not been officially cited as Communist fronts.

unquestionably fall

of Communist literature-

have not been considered in this tabulation.

themselves from

the main Communist Party and disagree with it on some tactical

points, these groups and their publications must be considered in any

estimate of

Communist strength in the United States.

Like the

main Communist Party, they are completely dedicated to the princi-

ples of Marrism-Lenmism and, as. will be demonstrated later in this

chapter, the main Communist farty, through united-tront tactics,

has succeeded in winning the support and cooperation of these smaller

Communist organizations in promoting Soviet objectives in the

United States.

(See section beginning on p. 40.)

One of these groups, the Socialist Workers (Trotskyist Communist)

General of the United States.

preceding October 1961.

The Young socialist Allance, & Trotskyist

youth group, has in oincial organ,

the loung socratist, also with &

claimed circulation of 5,000.

The Marust Leninet Vanguard, Workers World, and Lurning Pornt

aro some of the other publications which avowedly represent addition&

Communist splinter groups in this country.

Though the total circulation of the publications of all these splinter

groups is not great, the fact remning that even a small number of

persons who operate on Marcist Leninist conspiratorial principles are

, vory real danger. Thore may be only some thousands of people

who rend and agrce with the official publication of the Socinlist

Workers Party (which is more openly violent and subversive than

the main Communist Party) yet, allied with the orthodox Commu-

pists of this country and their tellow travelers, they obviously intensity

the very real internal danger posed by the latter:

Finally, a considerable number of magazines designed primarly for

rendership in academic circles-and with dehnite Marxist and pro-

Communist orientation- have sprung up within the last year or so.

No exet figures on Communist strength can be deduced from the

combined readership of all these Communist and pro-Communist

publications.

Une fact, however, does stand out beyond contradic

tion when their probable readership figures are totaled. It is that

the Communist movement in the United States must have a following

Farlie er than 10,000 people and muci greater than most Amerieuns

CIRCULATION INCREASES

Moreover, there are indications that, at the present time, the dis-

tribution and readership of the type of Communist literature under

consideration is increasing rather thnn decreasing.

Circulation of the official Communist Party newspaper, The Worker

has risen steadily since 1957.

A drive was begun in 1961 to increase

its subscribers to 20,000.

Paid circulation of the party's West Coast

newspaper, the People's World, increased by almost 1,000 in 1961.

---

## Page 36

13-00000

Summary of Oswald's political

viewpoint (by the FBI).

---

## Page 37

13-00000

FBI REPORT

- LACHMENT: 3

ROBERT

TIGEMBERLING

1-7-64

CLEE TO OWNE

NGTT

19304

Excerpts from Unpublished writings oi

Lee Harvey ISHAUD

(DEA-53708)

p. 248

D.278

p.295

"Lee Harvey Oswald was born in Oct. 193ô, In New Orleans,

the son of an Insurence Salesmen, whose early death leit

mean streck of independence brought on by neglect."

"39. 12 miles outside of Moscow is a show collective form for

forlengers tourist who ask to see a genuien errenge collective

for, on it 1s almost evey iniginabl help to men possible

Includiag eutonationitrers, feeder, even autonatic floor

cleeners.

the collective lorms at this place along with their

counterparts at the sme sort of place just South of Leingrad

live in well built aparment houses with food and clothing

stores built right into the first floors.

For the benifit of anyone who dosen't want to be duped

I suggest you take the Moscow to Breest highway for 24 miles

until you come to westeech where by asking directions you

cen in

five nintes find a real collective foim, & villige

ot the smell black ma and scrap wood houses, seen throughout

the Soviet Union and although its 50 minints fron the Krenlin

it dosen't have eletricity or ges. Inside pluming is

unknorn and the only autonation is that done with a broom.

there are

45,000 kollective farns in the Soviet Union

of these types as well as 7,400 State fams run by the

goverment. collective farmers numer 65,5 million people

or 31.4% of the totei population."

"In any buarekratic socity a class of desk adaministrates is

allways born who expect their palmes gresed end wo exploit their

positions for self-purposes however in the USSR such practices take

on a particularly potant natur since it is not simply a metter of

reciveing rero services or convinices but a ratter of setuing the

fundlemnts thinks of life, a sinole root, a vori steny, beission

to sce islative in a city inside a restricted zone such as border

zones;

o: military base and rocrat vase zones, in order to recite

peimission to

leare one city and live in another fron indinviul

choise a person must recive pemision iron the local bassport

egency in the cit from wich hu in leaving and iron the city to

which he Is going then he must chou that he hes recived a place

of living in sies city. to wnich he is going as vall es pemission

to move from the military authritios.

SECRET

---

## Page 38

13-00000

#113

Liz

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND J. J. MC CLOY

18 May 1964 - 5:55 p.m.

McC:

DCI:

McC:

DCI:

McC:

DCI:

McC:

DCI:

McC:

DCI:

McC:

DCI:

McC:

Just wanted to check. I was down here today and I may have to

come down tomorrow, I don't know yet. I was sorry I wasn't here

when you were taking testimony, but I was down in Dallas. Went

on Don Smith's show and I was going to check around, but you have

a reception this afternoon. The next time I come down I'll check

in with you. I didn't have anything particularly on my mind, but

I wanted to compare a few notes.

Well, I have got some things I want to talk to you about, so will

yóu let me know the next time you come down?

Yes, the next time I come down, I'll give you a little more notice

so we can be sure to get together.

We might have lunch or dinner or something like that.

That is what I have in mind.

O.K. - Have you seen that Buchanan book?

Yes, I have.

I have several copies of it. I sent two or three copies over and then

I got 2 more copies today and sent sent over there.

Sent over here? There is a new one out by Gunn.

Yes, I haven't seen it.

That is in French. Talks about being translated from the English,

but I can't find the English copy of it.

1'll check it out.

I am told it is more interestedly written than the Buchanan one,

- I talked to this fellow Gen. Staylan. He is a French general

somewhat related to the de Gaulle movement and he is an active

officer I ran into him somewhere along the line and I got to talking

about the assassination with him ahd talked about the extent of all

this todo. And one evening he said, well, I'll tell you, you know

I have been associated with de Gaulle's govt. to some degree and

am thought to be in that camp. But he said, this assassination business

and all these articles have now become sort of interwoven into the

anti-American propaganda of France which is quite prevalent. Some

---

## Page 39

13-00000

DCI:

McC:

DCI:

MCC:

DCI:

McC:

DCI:

McC:

(tape) mcm

of it, he said, is inspired in the sense that the Gaulle's papers

have it, whether it comes from the govt. or not is something

else again.

But in any rate, it is the body of that and had been

incorporated in it in sort of an argument for the instability and

lack of dependability of the United States.

Here was this noble

young soul who was very popular in France and elsewhere, and

that he was too good, so to speak, for the United States.

So they just knocked him off.

He came into his own, and his own received him not.

Now, the difficulty is, that this fellow Buchanan is a very articulate

• on the radio and on TV. He has made several broadcasts and he

has gotten his story over to the point that if your report doesn't dispose

of it point by point, your report is a whitewash.

That is right.

And that is what my friends tell me.

I passed that on to the

Chief Justic e.

Oh, there is no doubt that that is the case. It is not going to be

an easy thing to deal with it all, but we will have to take up his

points to a degree that they don't deserve, I think.

Yes, I am afraid you will. Well, fine, Jack, you let me know.

Yes, I will.

---

## Page 40

13-00000

p. 304

P.312

p:313

p. 320

18359

"Ib where can I turn? to factional mtants of both systems,

to oda-ball Hegelian idealists out of touch with reality too

religious Eroups.•

to revisenist or the absu'd anarchists. no!"

"I have lived under both systems, I have sought the ansvers

and although it would be very eesy to dupe myself into beliveing

one system is better than the other, I know they are not.

I dispise the represenatives of both systems weather they

be socialist

or christen democrates. Weath. they be labor or

conservative they ere all products of the two systems."

"IB

"Where I first went to Russia in the winter of 1959 my funds

were very limited, so after a certain time, aiter the Russians had

assured themsells that I was really the neive americen who belived

In comminism they arranged for me to recive a certain anountoi

money every month. Oh it came technically through the Red-cross as

fincial belp to a poor polical iminegeare but it ras erranged by

the M.V.D.e

I told myself it was sluply because I was broke end

everybody knew It. I accepted the money because I was hungry and

there was several laches of snow on the ground in Moscow at that

time but what it really was was payment for my denuciation of the

U.S. In Moscow in November 1956 end a clear promise that fer as

long as I lived in the USS? life would be very good. I didn't

relize all this, of course for almost two years.

28

As soon as. I became completely disgrunted with the Savit Union

and sterted regotitions with the American Embessy in Hoscow for

my return to the U.S. my "Red Cross" allotment was cut off.

Inis was not diffical to understend since all correspondence

1u and out of the Embassy is censored as Is common Inowlege in the

Embassy Itscif

I heve never mentioned the fact of these monthly payments

to anyone. I do so in order to state that I snall never sell

myself intentioraly or unintentionly io anyone again."

"4. Now-a-days most of us read enough about certain right ring

groups to inor how to recognize then und guard against their corrosive

I rould like to sey a nord cout them, elthough their is

possidly on other American born persons in the U.S, woo have as

nary personni crasons to know and tharefore hate and mistrust

concunion.

I wuld never becone a gondo-professional anti-cornist

such as Hervest nilbrick or MeCarthy. I vould never jung on any

of the wany riche wing bandagons because our two countrias have

2

STORET

1959

---

## Page 41

13-00000

SECRET

2-325

P• 329

too much too offer too each other to be tearing at each others

troats in an endless cold wer. Both our countries have major

short comings and advantages but only in ours is the voice

of dissent allowed opportunity of expression. In returning

to the UoS., I hope I have awaken a few who were sleeping and

others who are indifferent.

I have done a lot of critizing of our system. I hope

you will take it in the spirit 1t was given. In going to Russia

I followed the old principle 'Thou shall seek the truth and the

truth shall make you free.! In returning to the U.S. I have done

nothing more or less than selecting the lesser of two evils.

"The Communist Party of the United States has betrayed itself!

It has turned Itself Into the tradional lever of a foreign

power to overthrow the Goverment of the United States, not in

the neme of freedom or high ideals, but In servile conformity

to the wishes of the Soviet Union and in enticipetion of Soviet

Russia's complete domination of the American continent.

The Communist novement in the U.S., personalized by the

Communist Party U.SA., has turned itself into 'valuable gola

coin? of the Kremlin.

1t has failed to denouce any actions of

the Soviet Goverment when similar actions on the part of the

U.S. Goverment bring plous protest."

"No man, having known, having lived, under the Russian

Communist and Americon capitalist system, could possibly

make a choice between them, there 1s no choice, one offers

oppresstion the other poverty.

Both offer imperilistic

Injustice, tinted with two brands of slavery."

Diary Entries 1961

"July - I decived to teke my two week vactition and travel

to Moscow (without police permission) to the Azerican Embassy

to see ebout geting my U.S. passport back end maxe arrangements for

my wife to enter the U.s: with me."

(she later joined him in

Moscow)

"July 15

Merine at work is shocked to find out they everyone knows

she

entered the U.S. embassy.

They were called at her place of work

Irom some official in Moscow.

The bosses held a meeting and give her

a strong browbrating. The first of many indocrinations.

3

SEGRET

---

