# 104-10221-10269

## Page 1

104-10221-10269

DISPATCH

CLASSIBTATICH

SECRLT

MaCESSING

MA COW

21292195B:9

Chiete Sancial Affairs Stuft

S8:78S 958

гав ір(нді

Chirt of Station, JalAve 060

BUT TYPIC/Operational

ACTION REQUIRIO: HESCHECCA

ACTION: At your diacretion, tako appropriate action on partgraph li???

REFERENCE: UFGA-Y101, 21 May 1963

Operational

SIT: CURA

1.

Subject continued the hand-holding of Jesus

Pricisco

onzales pending a final decision on his utilization as an antaltree.

No And davel be currentin ravievino the dairiefing tile.

Subject spottud

The extent of stover knowledge of

persons,

places and thinys Cuban, as detailed in Subject's report,

aroused the interost of PM granch to which he was turned over in

mid-May.

?...

subject'e development oR Vedro MARrINEZ Prasa 1202-295287)

asa source of intelligence on tue.cusidual CKC.fron.h2s.vaacaxd is

general secretary. came to

fruition on 29 May Then the latter agraed

to provide information which would not normally be revealed to non-

CRC members or passed on

through liaison contacts with the Cuban

Affairs Coordinator in liani.

MARTINE? apparently. "bought" Subject's

recruitrent approach to the effect that our recent efforts on behalf

of cuba had been hampered by lack of full knowledge of the activities

capabilities and intontions of the various revolutionary groups and

individuala, being limited to tailored information which was mora

ofter what these

minted to believe than rcality..

clained that the

subjuet.

"pitch" was his own idea, and. that if MARTINE? was

( CONTINUED)

Distribution:

3 - C/SAS

NDEX *

1, CS Cy!

1308-9311

Em 019-7-911

3630131117

CLASSIE CARICA

201-251689

DA)E TYPEO

одні сиза:

23 June G3

DISSaTCH SYUMN AND NUNSER

UFGA-9745

MEGISTERS TIE TROUSE

4201-252639

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ЗЕСКЕТ

•ATEN DONTOL AND NUMACH

UIGS-0845.

tendie he would pag alte to his sunriors dith a gasent.

tinancial lalo.

mn disince resorate but

10123

12c02.22

1le:

the suurce pi

belind nior to this iorari ereruitment, and to mila talen

his production

during dune.

1f

fully. with subject,

he

cooporatind

sill ronuest a renewal of his tos and

offer

nin 9175 per mooth, his former CiC salary.

•1f, on the

other hand, ho appears

be using Subject as a

liaison contact

or as a channel for influeneing pbroks in favor of the cro,

he will be cropped.

Ile: Production

although subject subinitted a goud number of reports

which were of interest to jhiave internally, only three dis-

seminations were credited to him during the month:

UFG-2781 (cable) from Frank Fiorini and Pepin Bosch,

"Frank Fiorini's Agreement to Participate in Air Strike

Against Cuba"

UFG-2901 (cable) from trunk Fiorini, "'equest. by

venezuelan dacional that frank fiorint Purchase Arma

for Hin"

UrG-2922 (cable) from Pedro Martinez irard,

"Possible Cooperation Between Manued A. de Vacond and

Manuel Artine"

2.

One item of infornation which subject received fron

Frank Fiorini on 28

lay ms considered possibly of interest to

neraguarters, but probably best not forwarded in concere torni

Fiorini said

that he

Most aporen twice during the month with

General Clare Chonault, Je., Who phoned cron Calitoria.

Chendult indicated his

desire to puricipate in the anti-

Castro effort, and asked jiorini about the different orman-

ications in the dioni

enca and their londors.

Fiorini'::

reply put damuel. Acting at the head of the list, and noted

that lack of finencial backing was Artime's nost pressina

problem.

In the

second phons coll, Chinauit cocomonded that

Antime

solicit aid from the representatives of

the Chinece

diationalists

in washington, ind urged that his (Chenuult'a)

Maine be used.

Fiorini promisad to paso this on to retime

When

the latter returned to the U.S, fron a tour of latin

American countries.

3.

Information on a possibla new labor grouping in exile

called Alianca de Frabajadores Cubanos wis raceived From

ject early in

the nonth, änd was forwarded as in attachment

to UIGi-8970.

MiER

Anotheï itor vi possible disioninable value reccivad

at the end of the month vas i letter ruceived by Mario flaRat

Irio, a Cuban Lucar in axile,

foon his fatherin-id,

findel

conversation ire unhined not

The

Tatter naj aiso di

the writer.

III. Financial

Sub.

joct. tas

prad jor salary ier the nonth at tail, lars

979.93 withheld

soo ledered Tacore tix.

dawas reinbursed

$101,50 50s operationai wandiruces including use of his

---

## Page 3

14-00000

FICATION

CONTINUARION OF

DISPATCH :

PASTICH RISE ATO MAID

URCA-9745

POl for official business.

1V. Luture lIana

Subjoct will continue his round of the exiic connunicy

in generol,

but will aloo loo For none covort aourcus ot

information cuel s

the Maktruba development.

o will also.

be usoful for debrioring of new arrivals fron Cuin tho

Al'e

connacted with corolutionry groups of interest

TO JNNAVE...

Iri

this senird lie should be of

considerable augistance in

the influx of Uruguayan asylcos

End of Dispatch

---

