1o4-10766-10266

References [KTFILLIS, dated 6 Getoter Ley

3, Following inforwation conceming Gecrse de MEIONSCHLUT*s eantecteo2
With the Polish Cumnereial Lelegetion ia Fortsauctriace was proviaed oy (e¥iNCR- 1.
Tris renor. ecvers tne paricd 1d Septemar to ji) Lecenber luce, =< MUniR SLUTS
PASE contact wba the aelegatica ise Geen reported in refercnce ant several
other reparte,

2, Station notes thet Georse ve MAGI LUT oF hie wife Jeanne visited
the delegation tut cace auring the fulion Cuaereial Attache, wlodetaiers GALE!
(oI 9948), noe rom Kort~aucFriace, [nie one occasion was an 27 Uelouer,
(wo daye before iALICK! and nie faatly returied to Forteadehrince, On that one

-VAGKt, Br, de Makenicn Lut wma acaumanies ty an unidentified AmmPricane De
WOHIGNSCHILUT, tie Anerican, ans tne acting Comercial Attache!, Casiair SALACE aoa]
(2010752851), spose Logetnar in tne eaurtyerd fop enut half an nour, The anerta
was short, fat with greying hair.

WiOerobers (Vay arter alate retumn to Porteau-Prince,) Hree de
MOURRNSCHILUE viel’ the GALI! s for.an nour during the day,|
Wr, and Kre, de MAHREISCHILUT have dinner with beorciaetie =
Vater that evenings

Lilevecher) TALICKI's. have dinnep-at. de MOHRIICITLT 8,

4 Hoyenbory Mr. and Kre, de: MCHIGNICHIED? stop by for one-hour anda
half, Trey drink and: tale tdth GALICKI! 8,

AP Movenber; Mr. and Mis. de WOHRENSCHILDT and unknown American stop
by for an hour, All epeak Polish.

20's pent he CIA 7
tetributions pl ge: yr P
hief, KUDESX :
thief, wh Di-r.aion oft
nkat,, HE Division
ace ‘at At rut Le

‘ORPATCN S1HrBOL

beng

201-725439


the

CONTINUATION OF
OXSPASCH

ke

24 Movemper: Mr. anc Hr, de $it-1SCH LOT have dincer vito GLICO 's,
.

ve AD Decenbers

4. GeYaNoR-1 cannot identify by name the Americana with whom the
WOHRENSCHTEDT's have frecuent contact and nay introdnee: to’ GALICKT.

oo
GALIGI on 26 Decomber rayde associated with the "Sam reported in |H1PALU,63.¢>
The unknovn wonan noted on / Decenier mayve the "Alex" noted|(WTPAZI,1 paragraph?)
The-unknown woman visitor of 29 November maybe Verna sti! foted inf HTPAPILLY4 22-
According to Pan Amorican manifoste Miss SOMUFF left Portean-Prince at al
9 pa on the 29th of Decenbers .

eetzer: Mr. anc bra. ce
She Out sc cuiee

and Kose
yoice

26 Scremterz: Hr. ava Mrs, ce MeeSSCE oT have caner wits MALicd 's,
Stay for two bourse fi

19 Movertert Mr. and ira, de MHSUSCH LOT tave dimer with GoLIOd's
Wo calerrate Mra, WLO's Artrcay, Mr, ana Heo,
SALAD LR] also resent,

Stay foe 2¢ bourse
22 Movember, Mr. de MUHRGSCHLUT brings unmown waan to ULI CIS
at eiznt otclock in the normmins, Thay neve tea for $
hour ana leave, }
Ldecembers Mr. de MALKSCHI LUT and CALICM chat for 9 hour,
Ldecesbery Hr. and. Mre, de MiUSCHILLT have dianer wita GALICE] 6,

LDecenbery Mr. and Hre. de WH. UCHILOT arrive wta wnmowm woman,”
have tea and. chat for two -nuurs, doman speaxe French,

white, tall thin, long nair and long ace, if
A Decenher, Mr. and Mrs, de MOHGOICHILUT dine with GaLIOd's, Stay.
for 3/% hour.

U3 Decembery Kr. and Mra, de MOUIGNICHTLUT have two .ctelock lunch with.

GaLIGle,. stay 3/4 hour.

Mr, and Mre,. de MOHMENSCHTLOT have rum. tea and cakes. with
‘ALICKLS, Stay 1) houre.

21 Decembert, Vr. and-Hre, George de TOHRIKISCITLOT. have: tea and drinks
with GALICKIs, Stay 1} houre.

2 December Sr. de MOHRENICHILDT bring. an-American:couple with. two
: daughters to seo GALICKI., Botti husband: and. wife-are tall
and thin, Party stays for 15 minuteas

26 Decombert Mr. de MOHRENSCHILDT bringe. two Amerioan men and a baby
all of them wearin bathing auite. One of the.men‘de bald,
the other has short hair, Party leaves without CALICiis

29 Decenber: Mr. and Mre, de MOHIENSCHILDT stop ty wth friends and stay
: for 3/l, hour.

ania hee

ez.

ail

7

The idenws'

two Mierican men who visite:

we BN

Gk Pistiowac—

Joseph G, NSON

