# 104-10185-10143

## Page 1

104-10185-10143

ON REPORT

NORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENGY.

a I BEATO RATE, THE

CSC1-516/00254-64

20 Jul: 1964

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

5:60%1

SO FOREIGN OLSE

COUNTERP

Cuba

REPOI

SUBECT

Miguel BOA

DATE OIS!

NO. PAGEI

REFERENCIEI

DATE CE

1010 to 1964

IrO.

PLACE &

RAE ACO: 1054156350-0.

FIELD REF

SOURCE

I former Cuban IS officer who served rith the Cubte

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a serles containing

personality Information provided by the source and

includes supplemental information from the recores oã.

this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals mentioned in the personality. reports

without first checking with this Agency.

1.

2.

Miguel ROA is an officer in the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate

of Intelligence)

and hag

been stationed in Mexico for probably moe than

one year.

In Mexico, for cover purposes, he holes the

position of Press Attache, this comes under, the linistry

of Foreign Relations.

He

has visited Habana and then

there, visits the office building where the Liberacion

Nacional (LiN - National Liberation) section of the DGI

is located.'

He

"as also visited kanuel PINEIRO at his

office apartment.

Prior to being assigned to the DGI and to the Ministr

of Foreign Relations, ROA was a first lieutenant in

the National Police in 1959 to 1960.

-5

STATE

I OLA

REP CINCLAST

(Note? Fiabd Entribution Indicated by "')

FORMATION

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

I NAVY

I Ma

INSA

CINCSO F ISN'S

IBAKX

FBI 2

REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

WH/SA/LOS

WI:/ SA/:05

4 WE/5/R

WE HADR

WH/SA/R

WE/SA/CI 14

CI/LIA

CI/R&-A

RID/AN

1

3 IE

WH/WAVE

6 Mr MFSA 7 (1), MS 1

(2), CI 4, RID 1

PORE NO. 1

OBSOLETE PRETTOCS HOTTIONE

LX-1594

NO PROJECI

CSCI-316/00254454

WH/1/

A'EXI

202 Xana 241-73!

e900

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

3.

ROA was born abut 1035, is five feet seven laches tall, weighs 14.

pourds, has bushy blond hair, white sisht, a red face and a thin nose..

ROA 1s a friend of Manuel VEGA, pseudonya "MARCOS " 1

'Headquarters. Comment

The-

độ of thie Agency reveal no identiflable laformation on

ROA

NO FOREIGN DISTEN

---

