mone

REPORTIMIN FORMATION BREPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ‘

This material ccaysina Information adectiag tee Mutua! Deivas of the Caited Sates within the meuaing of 9 Eeenasy toe Te
IeUac Bre TH and TH ihe teamutene oe prance ot etic te any manner to 48 uusuthane forme Ww prathitee Oy BE,

1

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
countey Cuba \REPORTNO, —-- CS-311/00345-68
Policy Guidance for Cuban Intel-
‘SUBJECT ligence Representatives in Nexico, DATE DISTR, 1 July 1964
Central America, and the Caribbean
Issued ‘by the MA Department (Inte LO; PAGES 5
ligence) of the General Directo- :
rate of Intelligence (Direceton — REFERENCES — CS~311/00115~-64
General de Inteligencia =
: C7 aga - _ RETURNTO CIA
Date OF = 1964 :
INFO. Background Use Only
PLACE & roduce
DATE ACQ. 2 19 FIELD REPORT NOL _.__Do Not Rep:
‘THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE,
SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelli-
gence Service until April 1964. Appraisal of Content:
Documentary. :
Headquarters ‘Comment. The following is a translation of a
lociment which source provided this Agency and concerns the
Gencral Directorate pt Intelligence 's (Direccion General de
Inteligencia - DGIY MA Department policy guidance for its
ban intelligence representatives in Mexico, Central America,
and the Caribbean. The MA Department no longer exists. -as
such, having been divided inzo two departments: TLlegal
Department (Clegal) ard the National Liberation Department
(Liberacton Nacional — LN).
COUNTRY: SECTION M
SECTION N-A OUTLINE
ESSENTIALS: :
1, COLLECTIVE ACTION
2, NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEMENT
3. TRAINING CAMPS AND OPERATIONS BASES
4, COMMUNIST PARTIES
5. ARMED FORCES
6. MEXICAN RELATIONS WITH CUBA
7. REPRESSIVE ORGANIZATIONS AND CIA 7
4
bitte es] 3
NO FOREIGN DISSEV Neeintn
mice |}
Trav Tae Tea Tw oe (Far 2
CINCSO"S TSNS

Ef i Saas TRUN=1524
: NO PROJECT

+ SESE raeSS 1
aon See kt

Sashed Page issssnagsonantoeeasanieeteteng fs jb coi &

_ ———-+ 8-311. /90345 -84)
Presa Sr

SH OSAVCT PAQySat
Eyer



No FOREIGN DISSE

- in - 4

CS-311/00345-64

Hdgrs_ Dissom NE/AA/L&S 1

a NE/AA/AP 1

¥IL/COPS 1 NE/AA/E 1

WiL/PO/A 1 NE/AA/T 1

WH/PO/B 1 NE/S/P a

WIt/RO 1 NE/G/C&I

WH/L 1 NE/R 7

WH/2 a NE/CI 4

WH/3 1

WH/4 * 1 WE/1 1

WH/S 1 WE/2 1

WH/6 i WE/3 1

WH/R 1 WE/4 1 WH/SA/WAVE 8

WE/S Fee ocainiatsnne

WH/SA/EOB 5 WE/BC ree

WIL/SA/MOB 5 -WE/R 1

WH/SA/R 4

WH/SA/Int L

WH/SA/CI 20 Firld Dissem

CI Statt 5 WH/MEXT 1

CI Linison = 1 WH/MNTY = 1

CI/REA 3 efH/MRID 4

RID/AN 1

AF/} 1

AE/2 1

ny 3 1

AF/A ef

AF/R 39)

AF/CY 1

BE/K 1

EE/SA 1

EE/BR 1

EE/YA 1

FE/H 1

EE/P 1

EE/C ee

EE/EIS 1

FE/PMI/T 1

FE/JKO/JO i

FE/SKO/K Y

FE/YNC/VN nt

FE/R 4

FE/CI 4
[ceased
eee te)

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Liaison Dissém

TE

IE,
L/W

err

TIER


8.
9
10.
lu.

12,
13.
14.
15.
16.

17.
18,
19.
20.
21.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

-2- CS-311/00345-64

SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA MOVEMENT
INTERNAL POLITICAL LIFE
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES EE Hi a
COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

IMPORTANT:

CATHOLIC CHURCH

ECUMENICAL COUNCIL REPERCUSSIONS

ALLIANCE FOR PROGRESS rr

FOREIGN POLICY
OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

NECESSARY:

MINREX OPERATION AND DIPLOMATIC CORPS
PRESS

PRENSA LATINA ("LATIN PRESS")

LABOR MOVEMENT

ECONOMY
SECTION M-A

ANALYSIS ABOUT THE POLITICAL INFORMATION WORK:

BACKGROUND:

The M-A task presents some deficiencies, undoubtedly a
product of the minimum exploitation of its informative resources
and to the lack of orientation with regard to the information

that is needed,

In M-A we can observe three working zones, each one with :
different characteristics: a) MEXICO, b) CENTRAL AMERICA and
c) THE CARIBBEAN, An analysis of each follows,

a) MEXICO

The lack of information about MEXICO and events taking
place there is really alarming. Concretely we can point out
that we do not receive any information about the internal
political situation of Mexico.

This deficiency can be easily overcome if attention is
paid to the orientations of the guidelines and objectives
plan, since the Center in Mexico has contact capabilities
with the political forces of the country, at the necessary
level, it appears, to obtain this type of information.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM


SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
-3- H €S-311/00345-64

With regard to the relations with Mexico or the official -
policy of the country, we can point out that although the in-
formation received is larger in volume, this work is not ex-
Ploiting the information facilities.

Besides, in the first as well as the second case, the
sources available to the Center are not known in the Informa-
tion Service, We can deduce the information capabilities by
analyzing circles or individuals from whom the information is -
obtained. However, we don't know what the relations are be-
tween the Center and these informants, therefore we cannot
guide the information collection effort.

b) CENTRAL AMERICA

The information with regard to this region is still
worse than in respect to MEXICO. As far ay political in-
formation is concerned, we note the absence of sources
of information and of concrete information about current
matters.

Information about the political life of these countries
is almost nil, especially with regard to current matters. In-
formation. about political matters is frequently received from
this region, but almost always they refer to reports from a
specific source about his own party or about disagreements,
very generalized, with other Leftist forces.

Lately, for the last three or four months (actually
since early September), a decrease in the total volume of in-
formation received has -been observed, especially with regard
to intelligence information about the national liberation
movement in Contral America. With regard to other matters
(political life, relations with Cuba, solidarity, ete.) the
fact is that we have received information, although very

limited,
c) THE CARIBBEAN

With respect to Santo Domingo and Haiti, we can say
that the job in these two countrics is nil, as far as the
collection of information is concerned,

We have only received from Haiti, since the:month of
May, two or three information reports of limited value and
they were received through M-N

With regard to Santo Domingo the situation is very
similar. Although some information reports have been re-
ceived, they come from public (overt) sources (newspapers
from progressive organizations, manifests, newspaper clip-
pings, ete.) and occasicnaily political reports about
current events and the way of struggle in the country,
drafted by a member of a progressive organization.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM


SECRET
NO FORN DISSEN

~4- CS-311/00345-64
NEEDS:
a) MEXICO

Given the importance of the situation in Mexico, for
Cuba, basically because it is an important way of contact with
Latin America, it‘is NECESSARY to reinforce our job as far as
its RELATIONS WITH. CUBA is concerned. This means that we are
interested and need to intensify our work with the official
organizations .from Mexico (Presidency, MINREX, Congress, etc.)
having something to do with Cuban relations, so as to have
the elements of judgment and information about the future of
these relations and above all of the North American plans and
Pressures on MEXICO with regard to their relations with Cuba
and the Mexican position tu that respect.

Similarly, we are interested in second place in knowing
about the situation among the political forces in MEXICO,
especially. with regard to leftist forces and their role and
importance individually.

And lastly, it is necessary, in our opinion, to develop
an organized and incthodical task, according to the guidelines
and objectives of the plan, with the available sources of in-
formation from the Section or the Center in Mexico 80 as to
use ‘them more rationaily. If SHOULD BE POINTED OUT THAT IN
THIS SECTION, AS WELL AS IN M-S, A TENDENCY TO OBTAIN INFORMA-

TION FROM SOURCES IN CUBA IS NOTED.

b) CENTRAL AMERICA

In this region it is necessary to emphasize the obtain
ing of information about plans of agyression in Cuba, espe=
ctally with regard to possibilities of collective action

against Cuba.

On the other hand, work should be strengthened with
regard to the situation and plans of the national liberation
movement in the region and in each country. An effort should
be made to get to know, completely, what the role and the
position of every leftist force is, since there are countries,
like Nicaragua, where it is not known, due to lack of informa~
tion, what role each force is playing and which are their
relations with us, We consider that we must establish con=
tacts to work constantly and periodically with cach of the
leftist forces in these countries, Only this way we will be
able to overcome the deficiency,

c) The situation in these countries is very serious, from
the standpoint of the information work, As we have said, we
have no information about them, We consider that the first
matter to solve is to know the sources from which we can
obtain information and at the same time establish contact
with all the friendly forces in order to obtain information.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM



SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

-5- CS-311/00345-64

ANALYSIS ABOUT INFORMATION ON ENEMY ACTIVITIES WORK:

BACKGRO!

About the information work with countries in the M-A
Section with regard to information about counter-revolutionary=
type andaygression plans we can point out, in general, its
principal successes .ard deficiencies.

Through previous experience and the analysis of informa-
tion received from the countries of this Section concerning
counter-revolutionary activities, it was confirmed once more
that this 1s the zune preferred by Imperialism for locating
training camps for counter-revolutionary elements, getting
to the point where this assumes serious charactoristics in
certain places or specific zones. suchas the case of the
Péten zone: in Guatemala and Puerto Cabezas and the Maiz Is-

lands in Nicaragua.

From informazion about this type of activity we can
point out that some was incomplete and fragmentary, observing
in many cases the absolute lack of exploitation of a source;
this fact meant from the standpoint of our work serious dif-
ficulties, since this limited considerably our possibilities
of indirect confirmation, that is, through other different
sources, as well as a series of derivative difficulties ‘such
as the lack of continuity in the information, lack of con-
firmation, lack of contact and guidance as to the source

objectives, ete.

Analyzing all these previous phenomena we can point
out a definite yuideline with regard to our work for this
Section during the forthcomin, year, this guideline would
cover the following aspects that will be basic from the
standpoint of aggression plans.

1, Location of training camps for Cuban mercenaries,
conclusion as to the type of training they get and their
number, as well as thelr resources.

2. Detection of enemy aggression plans through the .

Armed Forces of Central American
countries and through the so-much mentiontd collective action,
or something similar.

3, Location of operations bases for pirate launches and
counter-revolutionary groups that will operate from nearby
countries, This is directly related with the plans for
penetrat the enemy,

4. Penetrate and have full information about enemy's anti-
guerrilla plans and its development. These would be the tasks
to be developed during the year, accordingly, and following
the general guidelines and objectives of the current work.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

