104-10210-10031 p-setvrisen erie ew nina tg wn Asem‘

MEMORANDUM FOR THE kECO.9
SUBJECT: Anatole Re NOSENXO é

p re 31 March and 1 and 2 April 1969, Anatole was

consulta about the NOSENKO case asa fellow-up to the Late
January 1969 meetings. He gave recommendations concerning :
the procedures and topics to be covered during the begia- { H
XO which is : \ : :

to begin secon, i

ning phases of additional elicitation from Nt

2. To provide a basis for discussion certain papers i
had heen prepared for Anatole's review. (See A:tachment A

for list,j) These papers were basically questionnaires about

some of the unresolved or questionable aspects of the

sO case based iargely on the Anatole

had highlighted on 17 January 1969 when he consented after

reviewing the October 1957-December 1968 intervieys of

NOSENKO. (See transcripts KY 1, 2, 3 and 4,} Other papers

4 concerned topics related to the NOSENXO case, msnoranda

4 NOSENKO had written, summaries and questionnaires prepared

fron both collateral information and NOSENKO's information



i
3
i

weed

os aa

-2-

and summaries and questionnaires prepared exclusively on
the basis of information obtained from NOSENKO during the
1967-68 interview period. Each of these papers was read by
Anatole. Anatole's comment, our discussion, or any comment
is detailed in Attachment B, which sets forth crucial ques-
tions in the NOSENKO case,

3. Anatole was told The Director had decided that the
question of NOSENKO's bona fides had not been resolved and
had directed that additional elicitation and questioning of
NOSENKO would be undertaken immediately and expeditiously
pursued. It was understood, of course, as Anatole knew,
that he was to make a major contribution to the questioning
of NOSENKO and that information to this end would be made
available to him: there will be the closest coordination
with him, including a timely review of future transcripts
based on the new elicitation phase. It was understood his
views, comments and recommendations will be transmitted and
seriously considered if not explicitly implemented. Anatole
emphasized the need for him to review in advance all topics,
if not in all cases the specific questions, to be discussed
with NOSENKO after the new elicitation phase begins. He
understands the new elicitation phase will begin with Attach-

ment C and that there will be no additional topics discussed



ses Sere

with NOSENKO until after Anatole has an opportunity to
review them and comment.

4, The following summary points emerged during the
course of our discussions as things which must be considered
in the NOSENXO case information and as papers or question-
naires are outlined and topics selected for further elicita-
tion from NOSENKO: ,

a. NOSENKO, as I understand the situation, has
had full access to newspapers, magazines, radio and TV since
approximately August 1968. Anatole was told I have no :
knowledge of the periodicals or Looks he has read.

b. NOSENKO has recently been afforded a controlled
break from isolation and an opportunity to have feminine
companionship.

¢. Since December 1968 the FBI has been inter-
viewing NOSENKO about topics previously discussed as well as
other matters of interest to the FBI which do not originate
with NOSENKO. Anatole noted that FBI access to NOSENKO must
be controlled according to the new elicitation procedures.

d, That it is my opinion only that NOSENKO may
think he is entering into or close to entering into a new

relationship with the Agency on the basis that he has



satisfactorily o

ered all questions during the period

1967-68.

e. That it has not been possible and it may never
be possible te isolate or pinpoint either the exact informa-
tion or the point in time when NOSENKO was given new infor-
mation or additional information which might be relevant
upon analysis to the question of his bona ficcs or his mission,

f£. To date there has been a concentration on pre-
paring elicitation questions on the basis of information
obtained during 1967-68 period because (a) this is the infor-
mation Anatole has reviewed, and (b) this information-has been
considered to be the standard for assessing NOSENKO and his
information and arriving at conclusions, since these inter-
views were designed to elicit information which would help
resolve discrepancies apparent in his previous statements,
and (c) at this time this information is better organized
and in contrast to information from 1962, 1964, etc., is _
retrievable as an accurate or literal NOSENKO statement.

g- That the summaries and questionnaires, prepared
to date may not include every comment or statement NOSENKO
has made during the 1967-68 period because it has not yet

been possible to isolate, by indexing and extraction, every



( ( :
a

-5-

reference to a person or a topic, Anatole was told that

the sorting or isolation proces» has been completed only
throuyh Memorandvm N-188, from a total of approximately 260
memoranda. It was emphasized that most topics and persons
were discussed with NOSENKO several times at varying intervals,
and that the majority of topics were not covered to completion
in one or two interviews. NOSENKO also wrote memoranda on :
topics which may not have been covered during interview or
which may relate to interview topics but which have not yet
been correlated with the interviews,

h. That research and analysis on most topics is :
incomplete, both with respect to collateral information and
previous statements from NOSENKO, :

i. That, as Anatole knows, there is certain collateral

or related information such as information from the FBI con-

cerning NOSENKO which has not been made available to hin.
Anatole realizes this type of information may be vital to any
consideration of the NOSENKO case and he also points out the
possible if not probable relationship between FBI information
and sources and the problem of penetration of American intel-
ligence and Soviet disinformation. He hopes the FBI will

agree to release pertinent information to him and discuss E ‘

¢ ‘
i
: i
i
i
{
stn cre ES PPE SP PUESERNPUODTESIRE PEPPY


Seed

Secs

sources in the near future. He realizes any analysis or
assessment of the NOSENXO case will suffer to the extent
information is withheld from him. Anatole understands the
problem even though he obviously does not accept it as
logical or helpful, He stresses the need for us to press
the FBI to make appropriate information available to hin.
je _That information we are dealing with in the

transcripts of the 1967-68 NOSENXO interviews is not neces-
sarily information previously known to or discussed with
NOSENKO and that, for instance, the body of informaticn re-
sulting from the 1967-68 information has been expanded con-
siderably by NOSENKO's review of hundreds of names and
photographs provided him. It was also noted that it has not
yet been possible to isolate topics new to NOSENKO about
which he was asked to comment during this period. Neither
have we been able to isclate or determine when in the past iH
new, topics or questions of possible significance were intro-
duced to NOSENKO, ;

4, We discussed in detail Anatole's recommendations
and evolved an initial selection of Crucial Questions (Attach-
ment B) and from these the first topics and/or questions to

begin in the new elicitation phase with NOSENXO (Attachment C).

comer


Anatole expects to review and comment and to frame additional
questions after he reviews the transcripts of the first

elicitations. He has requested and expecis, as this can be

accomplished, to review and comnent about a summary of each
Crucial Question.. The summary is to set forth both collateral
and NOSENKO information and detail, with attachments if neces-
Sary, exactly what NOSENKO has said. Also, pertinent photo-
graphs and appropriate other documentation is to be attached
for comment or verification of identity by Anatole. Anatole
insists that he review and assist in the framing of all ques-
tions to be aed of NOSENKO and he states that he will
stipulate the order of questioning by both topic and specific
question where appropriate. He will specify or indicate areas
as set forth in Attachment C where questioning may proceed
without his detailed guidance but he expects to be consulted
about each topic. He pians to carefully tailor the elicitation
approach and, more importantly, to set down detailed guidelines

to follow when the elicitation or questioning becomes more

. direct and concerned with those subjects considered, now or

later as revised, Crucial Questions. Anatole foresees a period
of relatively bland elicitation which will be followed by a
gradual sharpening of questions to the point where there will

be a confrontation or hostile interrogation. He also foresees



acer Bes

another polygraph examination either before or after the
period of confrontation. The method or approach to the
elicitation from NOSENKO is elaborated in Attachment C.
Anatole's recommendations about confrontation tactics will
follow after the results of the elicitation phase have been
analyzed. During the period NOSENXO is being asked to com-
nent initially, work on additional elicitation topics will
continue, .

5, Anatole continues to express his concern about the
problem of an Agency penetration and his absolute belief
that there is a continuing need to strictly compartment as
many aspects of our research as possible and to restrict
knowledge about our continuing efforts and particularly the
details to get to the bottom of the NOSENKO case. - He
emphasizes the need to severely limit dissemination of the
results of the elicitation from NOSENKO although he under-
stands it will be necessary to provide the results to the
FBI, He is concerned about the dissemination of his KY tapes
and the possible implications since he now believes he may
have erred in outlining too many areas of concern in the
context of considering NOSENKO's bona fides. Anatole was

told the KY tapes have not yet been made available to the



OrLREE

a Sota

-9-

FBI but that, of course, he would be advised about any
proposal or decision to disseminate then.

6. In relation to the point about Anatole’s concern
about knowledge of his information I told Anatole that it
would be necessary for him to comment in detail in the’
future as he had recently on certain items. He was told
that, as he knew, we arc at a stage-in the NOSENKO case
where details such as the organizational assignments of
individuals and identifications and the number of leads
provided were tending to obscure the Crucial Questions
and divert our attention from the central problem oi why
NOSENKO would have been dispatched. I told Anatole quite
frankly there was a feeling he had not been fully cooperative
on the NOSENKO case. There was a belief that he should
furnish the details of his knowledge about individuals,
operations, the KGB, etc., so that others can try to judge
the accuracy or inaccuracy of NOSENKO's information. .
Anatole was told that it would come as no surprise, to him to
learn that the fact he has not told everything he knows is
still a problem and that there may be some misunderstandings
since it is obvious his detailed knowledge has had and will

have a direct bearing on the NOSENKO case. Anatole firnly

dabrssruavasereasasnvs=sasastnsasasnssasasastnsasasnisasasastnsasantnsqsassisasasassasa¥assssesasesta¥asa¥ay¥atsFahta¥ers$aitstqsa¥estatateifeesesisse5Fseiet0( "Ait



-10-

but amicably reaffirmed his position concerning cooperation
on the NOSENKO case. He said (a) it was obvious that
research to date and collateral information supports his
position that NOSENKO is a dispatched agent; (b) that he
will continue to cooperate fully as he has when there has
been an exchange of information; (c) that he would not give
details now because to do so would result in a situation
where it is "Anatole ‘against NOSENKO" and it is obvious that
more evidence than this is required for an objective conclusion
about NOSENKO; (d) that details will follow after research is
analyzed or during the process of analysis as we examine
information and the details are pertinent; (e) that it is
unnecessary for him at this time to give additional details
ateut personnel or the KGB organization except when these
details reflect on major items -- overall these details are
not crucial and there is nothing to gain by considering small
items and details. If, however, small details become a major
point such as in connection with KOVSHUKY CHURANOV, cur’ ana
GRYAZNOV' then duging the review he will pinpoint the specific
and detailed contradictions. He reiterated his previous con-

ments pointed to the waste of time and diversion involved in

spursuing details and leads to recruitments or persons of

interest to the KGB when there is nothing crucial or significant

involved,

1
t
I
'
'



“le

7. (Wt was agreed I would meet with Anatole when the
first elicitation results are ready or when additional

pertinent research has been completed. and there are papers

or ideas to discuss.

N. SCOTT MILER
DC/CI/SIG

i
|
|
i



SJRLMCE
ny, ae, ATTACHMENT B

ANATOLE Re

{OSENKO

CRUCTAL QUESTIONS

A. ANATOLE was consulted 31 March and 1 and 2 April 1969
concerning his rocomnendations on how to proceed to clicit

additional information from NCSENKO. ANATOLE offered specific

topics and questions about which NOSENXO is to be questioned
after setting forth items or topics which ANATOLE considers

the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS which need explanation or resolution.

Theso CRUCIAL QUESTIONS are set forth below with comment or

notations which cmerged during our discussions.

: 3B, ANATOLE understands that the immediate period of
elicitation from NOSENKO is part of the program to attempt to
resolve the bona fides of NOSENKO. Ile understands that his
participation and contribution is actually the implementation
of the program he originally believed was to be followed
before there were any conclusions about NOSENKO's bona fides.
ANATOLE had been reviewing his file matorial and the transcripts
of his comments in January 1969 (The KY transcripts) so he
was prepared to discuss aspects of the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS as
well as spacific elicitation topics. As our contribution to
the discussion with ANATOLE we had prepared 26 papers relating
specifically to NOSENKO and I had notes concerning other points

or topics to be discussed, Each paper was read by ANATOLE, he



SECRET

retained certain of the papers and, as set forth below, he
conmented about certain of the papers or related matters.
After outlining the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS we worked out an elici-

tation guide to be followed with NOSENKO as tho beginning of -

_the progran, ‘The clicitation guide is detailed separately.

C. ANATOLE submits the following as his recommendation

about how to proceed with NOSES
; 1. Isolate the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS for our guidance
and consideration. (we basically accomplished this 31 March
and’ 1 and 2 April although obviously these may be revised)

2, Devise questions for elicitation. The questioning
of NOSENXO is to begin immediately and is to follow the pro-

cedures set forth separately. (The initial phase of this was

- accomplished, Additional or revised elicitation topics or

questions will be censidered when the results of the first
elicitation phase are reviewed with ANATOLE).
- 3. |



i
{
|
{
i
|
1
|
i

4. A hostilo/confrontation interrogation phase at

which time XO:

IXO would be faced with the errors, incon-
sistencies, falsehoods, etc. in his story and advised that
his nission failed, This phase of the approach to NOSENKO

would only be undertaken upon conclusion of the elicitation
phase or if or when NOSENXO's attitude changes during the
elicitation phase. The confrontation would be undertaken
only when full research on every aspect of each CRUCIAL
QUESTION has been completed and specific questions are
framed with ANATOLB on the baeis ef NOSENKO's information or
answers and a11 collateral infornation. In this connection
ANATOLE expects continuing research on each crucial question
so that each can be examined on tha basis of a summary of all
information about the question, the dotails of what NOSENKO
has said and related or collateral information such as
photographs a cocunents, etc. The hostile interrogation phase
ANATOLE anticipates will be undertaken only after full consid-
eration of all possible problems. For exanplo ANATOLE stresses
he will need to review the Bagley letter of November 1966 to °
HOSENKO since this will be a key eloweat in considering how to

proceed with the confrontation as well as to attempt to deternine



Pay ee

satisfactorily answered all questions during the period
1967-68,
e. That it has not been possible and it may never
be possible te isolate or pinpoint either the exact informa-
tion or the point in time when NOSENKO was given new infor-
mation or additional information which might be relevant
upon analysis to the question of his bona fides or his mission.
f, To date there has been a concentration on pre-
paring elicitation questions on the basis of information
obtained during 1967-68 period because (a) this is the infor-

mation Anatole has reviewed, and (b) this information has been

’ considered to be the standard for assessing NOSENKO and his
information and arriving at conclusions, since these inter-
views were designed to elicit information which would help
resolve discrepancies apparent in his previous statements,

and (c) at this time this information is better organized

and in contrast to information from 1962, 1964, etc., is
retrievable as an accurate or literal NOSENKO statement.

7 e g- That the summaries and questionnaires prepared

: to date may not include every Comment or statement NOSENKO
has made during the 1967-68 period because it has not yet

been possible to isolate, by indexing and extraction, every



Sec

reference to a person or a topic. |

ee | It was emphasized that most topics and persons
were discussed with NOSENKO several tines at varying intervals,
and that the majority of topics were not covered to completion
in one or two interviews. NOSENKO also wrote memoranda on
topics which may not have been covered during interview or
which may relate to interview topics ‘put which have not yet
been correlated with the interviews.

7 h. That research and analysis on most topics is
incomplete, both with respect to collateral information and
previous statements from NOSENKO.

i. That, as Anatole knows, there is certain collateral

or related information con-

cerning NOSENKO which has not been made available to him,
‘Anatole realizes this type of information may be vital to any
consideration of the NOSENKO case and he also points out the
possible if not probable relationship between FBI information
and sources and the problem of penetration of American intel-
ligence and Soviet disinformation. He hopes the FBI will

agree to release pertinent information to him and discuss

eRe Ene ie em te SAR Senge ea Ni 8 IS MABE ae



sources in the near future. He realizes any analysis or

assessment of the NOSENKO case will suffer to the extent
information is withheld from him, Anatole understands the
problem even though he obviously does not accept it as
logical or helpful. He stresses the need for us to press
the FBI to make appropriate information available to hin.
j. That information we are dealing with in the
transcripts of the 1967-68 NOSENKO interviews is not neces-
sarily information previously known to or discussed with

NOSENKO and that, for instance, the body of informaticn re-

“sulting from the 1967-68 information has been expanded con-

siderably by NOSENKO's review of hundreds of names and
photographs provided him, It was also‘ noted that it has not

yet been possible to isolate topics new to NOSENKO about

‘which he was asked to comment during this period. Neither

have ws. been able to isolate or determine when in the past
‘new topics or questions of possible significance were intro-
duced to NOSENKO. i

4, We discussed in detail Anatole's recommendations
and evolved an initial selection of Crucial Questions. (Attach-
ment B) and from these the first topics and/or questions to

begin in the new elicitation phase with NOSENKO (Attachment C).



Anatole expects to review and comment and to frame additional
questions after he reviews the transcripts of the first
elicitations, He has requested and expects, as this can be
accomplished, to review and comment about a summary of each
Crucial Question. The summary is to set forth both collateral
and NOSENKO information and detail, with attachments if neces-
sary, exactly what NOSENKO has said. Also, pertinent photo-
graphs and appropriate other documentation is to be attached
for comment or verification of identity by Anatole. Anatole
insists that he review and assist in the framing of all ques-
tions to be asked »f NOSENKO and he states that he will
stipulate the order of questioning by both topic and specific
question where appropriate, He will specify or indicate areas

as set forth in Attachment C where questioning may proceed

without his detailed guidance but he expects to be consulted

about each topic. He pisns to carefully tailor the elicitation
approach and, more importantly, to set down detailed guidelines
to follow when the elicitation or questioning becomes more
direct and concerned with those subjects considered, now or
later as revised, Crucial Questions. Anatole foresees a period
of relatively bland elicitation which will be followed by a
gradual sharpening of questions to the point where there will

be a confrontation or hostile interrogation. He also foresees



poe

-B8-

another polygraph examination either before or after the
period of confrontation. ‘The method or approach to the
elicitation from NOSENKO is elaborated in Attachment C.
Anatole's recommendations about confrontation tactics will
follow after the results of the elicitation phase have been
analyzed, During the period NOSENKO is being asked to com-
ment initially, work on additional elicitation topics will
continue, ‘ i

5. Anatole continues to express his concern about the
problem of an Agency penetration and his absolute belief
that there is a continuing need to strictly compartment as
many aspects of our research as possible and to restrict
knowledge about our continuing efforts and particularly the
details to get to the bottom of the NOSENKO case. He
emphasizes the need to severely limit dissemination of the
results 6f the clicitation from NOSENKO although he under-
stands it will be necessary to provide the results to the
FBI. He is concerned about the dissemination of his KY tapes
and the possible implications since he now believes he may
have erred in outlining too many areas of concern in the
context of considering NOSENKO's bona fides. Anatole was

told the KY tapes have not yet been made available to the

iS



‘pyhatiomaaennneetienlinynmteta rere ane stemonen aoe einem ean nbimyon hitmen creel

-9-

FBI but that, of course, he would be advised about any
proposal or decision to disseminate then,

6, In relation to the point about Anatole's concern
about knowledge of his ‘information I told Anatole that it
would be necessary for him to comment in detail in the
future as he had recently on certain items. He was told
that, as he knew, we are at a stage in the NOSENKO case
where details such as the organizational assignments of

fe individuals and identifications and the number of leads
: provided were tending to obscure the Crucial Questions

and divert our attention from the central problem of why _

NOSENKO would have been dispatched. |



“eh nominee antinesenynteorned” st ieriteetebmecestment ane penne vacey Outro wey team ema ahr us tel i aOR Bena NE He cei

-10-

but amicably reaffirmed his position concerning cooperation

‘on the NOSENKO case. He said (a) it was obvious that

research to date and collateral information supports his

position that NOSENXO is a dispatched agent; (b) that he

will continue to cooperate fully as he has when there has

been an exchange of information; (c} that he would not give

details now because to do so would result in a situation

where it is "Anatole against NOSENXO" and it is obvious that

more evidence than this is required for an objective conclusion

t about NOSENKO; (d) that details will follow after research is
analyzed or during the process of analysis as we examine :
information and the details are pertinent; (e) that it is !
unnecessary for him at this time to give additional details
atcut personnel or the KGB organization except when these
details reflect on major items -- overall these details are ;
not crucial and there is nothing to gain by considering small
items and-details. If, however, small details become a major ;

Vv cux’ana :

point such as in connection with KOVSHi

‘GRYAZNOV' then during the review he will pinpoint the specific

and detailed contradictions. He reiterated his previous com-
ments pointed to the waste of time and diversion involved in
pursuing details and leads to recruitments or persons of
interest to the KGB when there is nothing crucial or significant

involved,

SOME cane dnote eonenneneen oe en



ay
wi

ee es

7. It was agreed I would meet with Anatole when the
first elicitation results are ready or when additional

pertinent research has been completed and there are papers

or ideas to discuss.

N, SCOTT MILER
DC/CI/SIG



suds eS edpeenbome once ttineorinbenenrmmsnce gy matortariyeehiaone: later mnie hte cin orn chttatenn Retseaamb sete eee |

SRUKEL
ATTACH!

oon a

ANATOLE Re

CRUCIAL QUE

AL OAR

TOLE was consulted 31 Murch and 1 and 2 April 1969

concerning his recommendations on how to proceed to clicit

additional information from NOSENKO. ANATOLE offered specific.

sim

topics and questions about which NOSENKXO is to be questioned
after setting forth items or topics which ANATOLE considers
the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS which need explanation or resolution.
Theso CRUCIAL QUESTIONS are set forth below with comment or H | :

notations which emerged during our discussions.

:  B. ANATOLE understands that the immediate period of : !
elicitation from NOSENKO is part of the program to attempt to :
resolve the bona fides of NOSENKO. Ile understands that his
participation and contribution is actually the implementation i

of the program he originally believed was to be followed

before there were any conclusions about NOSENKO's bona fides. A
ANATOLE had been reviewing his filo material and the transcripts

of his comments in January 1959 (The KY transcripts) so he .
was prepared to discuss aspects of the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS as

well as specific clicitation topics. As our contribution to

the discussion with ANATOLE we had prepared 26 papers relating
specifically to NOSENKXO and I had notes concerning other points

oer topics to be discussed, Each paper was read by ANATOLE, he



Sa ee Sc eal

™

retained certain of the papers and, as set forth below, he
connented about certain of the papers or related matters. | :

Aiter outlining the CRUCIAL Qi

TIONS

we vorked out an elici- { “4

tation guide to be followed with NOSENKO as tho beginning of

the progran, ‘he elicitation guide is detailed separately.

€. ANATOLE submits the following as his recommendation
about how to proceed with NOSENKO:

1, Isolate the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS for our guidance

and consideration. (We basically accomplished this 32 March

and 1 and 2 April although obviously these may be revised)

2. Devise questions for elicitation. The questioning
o£ NOSENXO is to begin immediately and is to follow the pro-
cedures set forth separately. (The initial phase of this was
accomplished. Additional or revised elicitation topics or
questions will be considered when the results of the first

elicitation phase are reviewed with ANATOLE).



neces ne aganforgene ener eegaingineineat ahem emer dchiimenmne an SateaeM a st de

4. A hostilo/confroatation intorrogation phase at
which time NOSENXO would be faced with the errors, incon-
sistencies, falsehoods, etc. in his story and advised that
his mission failed. This phase of the approach to NOSENKO
would only be undertaken upon conclusion of the elicitation
phase or if or when NOSENXO's attitude changes during the
elicitation phase. The confrontation would be undertaken
only when full research on cvery aspect of cach CRUCIAL
QUESTION has been completed and specific questions are
framed with ANATOLE on the bacis of NOSENKO's information or
answers and all collateral information. In this connection
ANATOLE expects continuing research on each crucial question
so that each can be examined on the basis of a summary of all
information about the question, the dotails of what NCSENKO
has said and related or collateral information such as
photographs or documents, etc. The hostile interrogation phase
ANATOLE anticipates will be undertaken only after full consid-
eration of all possible problems, For exanplo ANATOLE stresses
he will need to review the Bagley letter of November 1966 to
HOSENKO since this will be a key clezent in considering how to

proceed with the confrontaticn as well as to attenpt to determine



herbiecrmepenniscinetdonestantt mupnae tama cocatnssenk erecta inndeoneereignanntt meintitennneamsaninn oprae oni iiutrpratasrnchtre arial

SECRET

a4-

what influence that letter hes had on NOSENKO during tho 67-63

interviews.

D. It was necessary to enphusize to ANATOLE the fact Hl
that at this tine it is not possible for me to assure hia that
everything NOSENXO has said on any topic has been recovered
or is retrievable even for the interview period of 1967-1963

(and 69). Noting the papers we had prepared ANATOLE had to

bo told there was no assurance that everytaing NCSENKO has
said was included or considered when attenpting to extract

(oT summarize his statements about a person or event. Specif-
ideally it was noted that with a fow exceptions no topic or
item is:{ully covered during one or two interviows, Even
though ANATOLE recognized the problem based on his review of
the transcripts of tho 1967-68 interviews it was necessary

te emphasize the fact that the validity of any given question
we had framed wight be challenged, reversed or modified as the
process of indexiag.the transcripts continued. ANATOLE was
told that as of 31 March 1969 we had been able to index and
extract the transcripts and nonoranda of the 1967-68 interviews.
ANATOLE

i

also was told it is not possible to be certain that all previous
i information from NOSENXO can be accurately and fully recovered,
hs . For this reason it is difficult if not inpossible to isolate

what he night have said in 1964 and/or 1965 and coupare that



“statement vith what he said in 1903, ANAT

co

also acknowled:zed

,noting the pessible significunce of the interview techniques

“as these have varied over the years. Contrast in the technique

and the approach to NOSENXO where, for exaaple, ho is provided

infornation or asked oniy to conZirn a leading question has

tended to dilute if not obscure what NOSENXO actually has
had to say about many sudjects; at this stage it may be
virtually inpossiblo to distinguish MOSENXO’s original infor-
nation from subsequent statements nodified as a result of
questioning. ‘This problem is an inportant consideration
Ddecause the approach to the olicitation phase was developed
with this in nind, Essentially it was agreed with ANATOLE
that despite previous statements or information from NOSENXO
the elicitation phase would be managed to attespt to obtain
from NOSENXO everything he has to offer or say about each

GRUCIAL QUESTION at this tine without reference to any previous

statement. It is ANATOLE's opinion that if NOSENXO provides
a ‘full statement without proapting that further questioning
can bo meaningful after analysis of his statonent despite

0 has nodified or revised kis information

the possibility HOS:
as he has learned or apparently learned what he thinks is
wanted or he should say, ANATOLE believes the fundamental

SE

O'S twists and turns

problem remains and that despite
it will be possible to sort through the various stories to

focus on the reason for determine the



i tanec enema teres ne sor ie anINN teen MeA

key iteas of diversion.

E. In reply to ANATOLE's question he was told that the
FRI continued to intorview NUSENXO usually with Nr. Solie
present but that I did not know in advance anything about the
topics of any interviews. I told ANATOLE it was my opinion

that once clicitation from NCS

O began on the basis of his
recommendations that other interviews would stop. We
recognized and agreed that there night be a tactical and/or
psychological problem with NOSENKO by shifting the interview
technique to elicitation rather than consultation and a
response to suet foning. ANATOLE could not eaphasize too
strongly-the need to let NOSENXG respond fully with nininal
prodding or stimulation and without refreshing his mesory.
ANATOLE was told it was my understanding the elicitation —
phase would be conducted by Mr. Solie without FBI partici-
pation although I did tell ANATOLE that the elicitation trans-

Cript results would undoubtedly be given to the FBI just as

have the results’of all the 1967-69 interviews. |

Fe ANATOLE expects and recommends that the period of
elicitation will be followed by the period of interrogation
or confrontation to be conducted by a tean of threo persons -

he security expert, Mr. Solic; a counterintelligence specialist

who knows related cases and Cl problens, and a Soviet specialist.

serene mtn aeneicirsaemmviniemenanrctio a



po etespenecteaeareeniers

ANATOLE says this team approach will be necessary to inplement

a fast moving interrogation, based on the script he will help

devise, which will not permit NOSENKO tine to reflect or
think about his answers. ‘Tho tactic will be to insist on

immediate and full answers and ANATOLE insists that once the

new elicitation phase begins NOSENKO not be pormitted to

write any answers: He is not to be yiven any written essign-

ments: every response and reply is to be oral and transcribed

and NOSENKO must be encouraged and permitted to respond fully: _
he is not to be asked to confira or deny any statement nor is
he to be assisted in replying to any question with suggestions
or reminders.

G. ANATOLE recognizes the problem of information froa
FBI sources and the release of this information to hin. le

respects the FBI need to protect its sources and understands

the PBI attitude even though he quite obviously agrees. He
believes that our failure to nake relevant information available
to hin is shortsighted and lessens both his effectiveness and.
eur ability to decipher the NOSENKO puzzle faster. ANATOLE
recalls that at the time NUSENKO defected in 1964 and there

was discussion with the FRI about the SASHA lead and related
matters he asked for FBI file and source information pertinert

to the prableas, ANATOLE continues to belicve there probably

fica rien



-have said about NOSENKO and COLITZYN.

is a serious question about the possivle siznificance of

NOSENKO to penetrat’>. of the FBI the bona fides of F3I

sources in terns of misinfornatioa (disinforaation) in

relation to both NOSENKO and other information. lie is of

e te the FDI

the opinion that a FBI source(s) prob

after his defection and perhaps after > O's contact if

not dispatch in 1964, Ile suggests the possibility there may
be a false arrest and show trial of a FSI source in order to

further bolster NOSENKO's story. Although it has not been

possible to discuss this aspect of the XO story with
ANATOLE it seems clear that if we are to gain full nousure
from ANATOLE it will be necessary for the FBI to approve
or conduct a briefing of ANATOLE appropriate to puting 2
porspective on the F2I sources so he can assess what they

H. The following are the CRUCIAL IONS which are to ,

form the basis for clicitation fro: NOSENXO. They are set

forth in the order discussed.

1. Hisinformation in the Second eee Directorate (SCD)

(This is an anmediato topic for elicitation as “Set forth separately)

2. Leadership of tho KGB
3. Leadership ef the First Chief Directorate , (FCD)

4. Leadership of the SCi)
S. SHELEPIN's 1959 Report (This topic will be discussed



i
i
i
i
i
f
i

riore thoroughly with ANATOLE before the question is raised
with NOSENKO again. MIATOLE was emphatic in stating that it
had been a mistake to raise the subject of the KGB policy and
1959 reorganization with NOSENKO, He read the paper with
attachnents but deferred comment except to note that NOSENKO
had said very little of significance. It was at this tine
that ANATOLE first noted it was a nistake to permit NOSENKO
to write memoranda, ANATOLE obviously considers this aspect
of the NOSENXO case most important and a topic which requires
his study particularly in view of the fact ho now has extracts
from the GOLENIEWSKI letters which relate to the 1959 KGB
reorganization and disinformation. ANATOLE also did not recall

the book so it will be necessary to make cortain he has a

copy.)
~ 6. Penetration of the American Embassy Moscow

(ANATOLE considers this a most important topic which requires
additional study and elicitation later after research will
permit us to assess NOSENKO's statements rapidly. ANATOLE
reiterates his concern that it is exactly and specifically
in this area that NOSENKO's reassurance of no KGB successes
is most likely diversion. ANATOLE expressed his concern that

in January ho may have cosmented too extensively and theoret-

this

ically avout this problen. He now wants to re-cxan

problem and refocus everyone back wore precisely to NOSENKXO

and his story)



knows about the VASSALL case: tines, sources, officers, etc.,

be asked to reconstruct complétely in detail everything he

at one taped session. Sinultaneously ANATOLE says we should
construct a complete chronology of everything HOSENKO

has said about the VASSALL case since June 1962, including

the questions or comments put to NOSENKO about VASSALL, An

analysis comparison of these two papers will follow.

| This nay assist us to solve our

problem and also be ultimately useful in confronting NOSENXO

i
i
i

on the point of his dispatch and apparent immunity.

9. Boris BELITSKIY Case (ANATOLE approved clicitation

and questioning on the basis of the summary ond questionnaire.
ANATOLE stresses the need to confine the questioning to the
questionnaire and tho fact that NOSENKO is not to bo given
additional infornation about the case, its origins, etc.,

either as we knew it or now know it fro ANATOLE, There will

be some tie-in to the elicitation about Vladiair Luovich ARTENOV
and Aleksandr Konstantinovich XISLOV but other than the questions
as set forth in the papers ANATOLE revieved there should be no

9 or relste the three or

questions asked which brief ‘iOSE!

any other persons.



onan peencererenummenns ater Soaps tance nn anentsenehekaere neers

WW to nake certain

ANATOLE needs a photograph of AKT

of identilication and he needs photos crhers in the delegation
with BELITSKIY to try to dotermine if there were other KGB
officers in the delegation who night have been in on-the case

or the disinformation aspect}

10, The 1960 period of NOSENKO's carcer.
This is to be an elicitation topic later after we

have summarized what we can about NOSENXO's story of this

period. In reply to ANATOLE's question based on his review

of the paper NOSENKO Timetable and Associates I told ANATOLE

the researcher had found it impossible to date to sort out

and isolate NOSENKO's 1967-63 statements about his career
during the period 1960 to 1562. ANATOLE was told this was
obviously a priority job but that it just had been an im-
possible task without additional research and analysis. We
will discuss this fully when the isolation is comploted and

in conjunction with other topics.

11, Vadim Viktorovich KOSOLAPOV 's November 1960 trip.

This item is for later elicitation after more

research is completed about the code clerks, perhaps a reinves-
tigation to make positive identifications, etc. ANATOLE asked
if Kosonapov's trip to Copenhagen was confirred (N-167 pg. 16)
and I told hin I thought it was under a different name.

ANATOLE would like details.

PUBEET :

|
|



Sieh eteamnene,

a2, bert
ANATOLE considers this

H

KO's throw-away material. He again questions :

SCD would lead technicians to the FCU and wants 10S)

il again hi

explain this in detail as well as to fully d

fron whou, etc, NO: KO learned of this case. ANATOLE is

of the opinion new questions can bo asked but agreed to defer

natily because I pointed out

elicitation on this case pr
that in 1965 a paper was written setting forth apparont

inherent security weaknesses in the Jolinson case sone of wnich
at least suggested strongly that, in addition to Johnson's :
lack of access at one tine, the KGB could have anticipated

a blow at any moment. I outlined some of the points I recall
about the weaknesses of the principals and quite frankly 1

told ANATOLE that I doubted that anyone currently of the opinion

NOSENKO is bona fide would be any more inclined to credit the

(1965 paper today than he has in the past. I agreed that it

might be useful to again atteapt to get NOSENXO's story about
the JONNSON case when this story would be exclusively NOSENKO's.

13. Aleksey Mikhaylovich GORRATENKXO.

ANATOLE wants NOSENKO to tell in detail everything
he knows about GOXBATENKO, ANATOLE notes the 1955 promotion is

a key elerent but stresses no rention of this is to be made

to NOSE Despite previous nentions of CORBATENKO, which

should be collated, NOSENKO is to restate everything conpletely.



: Lriesmaes antennae seeton ste iG
croc aerigitioweg eabetincdonsitsrmuryainen none encampment ram att rcmP ee a ss

-13-

14, Serafin Nikalayevich LYALLY

Elicitation about LYALI! is to follow lator.
All references to LYALIN by NOSEHKO should be collated with
collateral infornation about hin. If there is a photograph
of LYALIN, ANATOLE wants to see it to verify any NOSENKO
identification.

15, Vladislav Hikhaylovich KOVSHUX. ANATOMY

considers NOSENKO's information about KOVSHUK most important

KO asked

as a later elicitation point. !e does not want NOSE:
any questions about KOVSHUX which nay relate to KOVSHUK's
trip to the U.S.A. or KOVSHUK's association with KISLOV. If

NOSENXO in ccnnection with detailing the biographios of his

friends includes any of this about KOVSHUX he is NOT to be
questioned on this matter or about the wonan trouble previously
mentioned,

ANATOLE needs exact dates KOVSHUK was in the U.S.
and ‘ony details of activities he can be given from FBI reporting.
In comiection with our discussion about KOVSHUK possibly working
with and associating with journalists ANATOLE said he recalled
an incident which he thinks took place in 1959 whon he met
KOVSHUK on the street not far from the KGB offices when KOVSHUK

signalled him not to speak. ANATOLE did not and observed

KOVSH

neet a Soviet journalist in an apparent agent type necting.

store

pan]

oa.



ANATOLE said he had forgotten this incident end he never spoke
to KOVSHUX about it. ANATOLE cannot recall tho nang of the
journalist but said he recalls knowing hin slightly. Ue will
try to recall the name. (Hote for SM check: did KOVSHUX per
NOSENKO work vs. Anericans with journalists and specifically
Ed Stevens?)

16, Eugene Peter SEREBRENNIXOV.

WiATOLE says what NOSENKO has said is clear

but that this needs full research and analysis - what he said
contrasted with what NOSENXO said and what SERESRENNIKOV said -
before asking NOSENKO about this again.

17, Adan BROCHES Case

ANATOLE was told this lead information was being
reviewed in detail, That there was some apparent confusion
and possibly misinterpretation or nisunderstanding about his
lead information. i

ANATOLE ‘reiterated his point that the KGB wanted
to reestablish relations which had been broken after BROCHES
left France. ANATOLE knows about this from reading ZARUBIN
paper and he knows that the KGB wanted to talk to ZARUBIN
about this.

ANATOLE said that he would leave the decision
about when NOSENKO would be asked about SROCHES again to SH -
it could sec immediately when the review was completed or later.
The review is in process and we will have to see what FBI

may have asked receatly.



“tiennienmeeminnpinnttinmtnhieittenererinmerine et

tent eign en renner er ig neg

>

18, Viktor KOPEYSIN. A later topic.

19, The ANGY Papers

AATOLE stresses the ixportanca of this case

but says this nust be a later topic for NOSENXO probably in
interrogation although it may be useful to have NOSENXO
reviow his knowledge again in detail before confrontation.
ANATOLE referred to the need to analyze
the results of the BOWDEN investigation before proceeding too
far with NOSENKO. In this connection ANATOLE was told State

Security was securely organizing this investigation and that

" .4t was currently planned that interviews would comaenco with

BOWDEN first including mention to BOWDEN about his mention
in the CHEREPANOV papers. In response to ANATOLE's question
ho was told that to my knowledge the FBI did not yet know

abotit the BOWDEN investigation since to date it was a State

Department inquiry based on a need to clarify certain possible

probleas. ANATOLE said that he saw CHEREPANOV after CHEREPANOY
had transferred to the American Embassy Section wearing a

Lt. Col. military uniform, ANATOLE said this was unusual and
it suggests to him that CHEREPANOV was engaged in an operation,
perhaps a contact posing as a military beginning in 1959.

He said CNEREPANOV had as a constant companion a young ran in
the Anerican Department but ANATOLE cannot recall the young

SENKO be asked if

nan's nane. (ANATOLE suggests later

CHEREPANOV wore a military uniform and-who was his companion,
Beara)



” NOSENK

probably in operations.) I told ANATOLE T did not know if

¥ but would check

had naned any friends of Cilés

for nunes. ANATOLE said he recaileJd also there was 2 big

ge in CHEREPANOV's attitude and demeanor between corly

¢

1959 to nid ~ 1969 or, nore probably, Dec, 1960 when

ANATOLE saw Cherepanov again. ANATOLE said he can only

interpret that CUZREPANCV was in a better mood, more confident

in personality because he nay have had sone operational

success. ANATOLE

of the opinion that CHLREPANGY’s change

in demeanor and mood could only relate to American Eabassy

operations,

20, The GES case
ANATOLE says this is not really a crucial

question although an important case which needs resolution

eventually along lines sea forth in the paper NOSENXO -
Homosexual Aspects but not on the basis of the homosexual

angle {see separate discussion re homosexual aspects).

21. The FOPO¥ and PENKOVSRIY Cases

ANATGLE ssys both of these cases should he delayed

ideration and nore

until later. They require special con.

research and discussion. We are not ready now to delve into

ay have tented to obscure sone

.

these and it is his opinion

SENKO by drawing parallels with PENXOVSKIY

of the points about

in Jay He believes there ere parallels ant a relationship



sf :
~ s
= : -17-
and we should continue to exanine all aspects of the cases |
: but he concedes a better baso of understanding should be laid :
t before it will be possible to nake a meaningful tie to
NOSENKO.
| |
i
i \ :
i
‘
i i
: * om : :

EEL a tee



-18-

O's Friendship with GUE, Chur ete

ANATOLE emphasized the need to get from NOSENKO complete
details about his friends or clained friends. ANATOLE agreed
with the line of inquiry outlined in the paper "Knowledge Because
of Association with other KGB Officers" and said elicitation
should include information sufficient to give tis in one nlace

a perspective on NOSENKO's associates and friends. This topic
can be covered immediately. .ANATOLE stresses real importance

of Guk, Kovshuk and Churanov to NOSENKO. He notes Guk's wife

was the daughter of a minister and asks if NOSENKO could have

introduced then. He also points out CHURANOV in school with
NOSENKO.
239

ANATOLE agreed elicitation on this tepic should wegin
.immediately and was most interested in the possible significance
of this case vis a vis disinformation. lie noted, of course, the
different perspective on the case and that apparently when this
case was considered in the context of support to XOSENKO's bona
fides analysis had not taken into account the actual origins.

and developrent of the case. NATOLE innediately cennected the

SLAVACHENSKAYA angle to the P KIY case and speculated that

the KGB may have been attenpt

to establish a separate

Ost XOVSKTY

sibly confirrstory source to the FRI to holster PE



who was in contact with the British and CIA. ANATOLE emphasized

his view that NOSEYKO should not be given a hint about the actual

besinnings of the case to prevent NOSENKO fron nodifying his story

or being led to explanations. NOSEKO should retell his eccount
of the GEER case and then be asked the questions Listed

without confrontation or explanation.

(Seo N-24 - This 2 later tonic) AJATOLE requests
everything available about GINSBURG and srecifically everything
NOSE'YKO has ever said. After the research ANATOLE thinks he
‘can spot sonething in connection with GINSPUSG which is significant

but which he says eludes hin at this cime.

25. The Military Attache Incident. ¢

ANATOLE stresses importance again as he did in KY

reer . . i i i:
transcripts, He persists in thinking there nay be more here

than we have covered - that one of the MA’s may have been re-
ertited or someone else was recruited and advised about the triv.
Ne refers to N-32, and maintains this incident needs reexamination
and that probably after research the Attaches should be questioned 5
again. NATOLE says it his recollection that the KGB knew

exactly the device they were looking for; that the KER did not

a detection device which could have been effective and that

the use of a hox urich looked 1 a detection machine was staged



i
i
i
|
|

eal ’

to cover up fact ¥ device and

knew exactly weere to find

what it was. He says his recolizction is th

knew where

to lool and there was no search or mdnitoring. They just went

TOLE a b not a nachine

to the r

place. This «cans to A

about this can only follow

source. He says questioning XN

research,

ANATOLE was interested in this but we did rot dwell

Se + ean

on this subject. ANATOLE believe it a give avay diversion
although probably true. Decision re additional elicitation to

be nade by SM on basis tine and Framing questions.

27, Microphones in Anerican Bnhassy,

MATOLE still suggests review this information from

NOSENKO and requestioning particularly to establish exactly

what NOSENKO said when and if he said anything about NOUT! 67)

Decision re timing of questioning by SM.

1 Anbassador Ca:

“N retell in detail

everything 42 knows about VATET in sane way-bo to be asked

vonut ¥assall. Then it will be nocessary line cut and cenpare



NOSEYKO said. ANATOLE points

- exactly what ANATOLE said and what

J before he was

out importance of early information from “9.

given background information or leading questions. ANATO:

thinks this can begin early in elicitation or he done Jater.
Decision re timing by SY.

ANATOLE thinks it night be helpful for him to review
what NOSENXO has said about Svetiana STALINA ye py yeypecncee eet
. This is speculative hut ANATOLE recalls or was told NOSENKO
i should or did know something and he thinks there nay be sone

"KO's associates, friends, etc., possibly
Wee eae es

clue here about NOS!
eexanner
of importance.)
29. Code Clerks - 59-62
ANATOLE again emphasizes his need to see a full review
of results of investigation of all the code clerk cases. He is
convinced there may be a case here and that the clues have been
missed or overlooked. lie says he ‘cannot recall the necessary
detail and thet it is only when he can he stimulated vith names,
dates, etc., that he may be able to pinpoint some angle of
i significance. ANATOLE was told we were also bothered about these
cases - that ruch work had been done but that, quite frankly, I

could not estinate how long it would take to assemble the inferzation

for orderly review. A‘IATOLE was told this is on the agenda - it

is a matter of tine and pensic. Any questioning of SOSENKO ahout

these cases can only he done Inter.



|
|
LE

ANATO! should }now rore specifics about this and

opines KOSEN*
that later it will he necessary to question hin with specifics
during the confrontation stace after comparing late elicitation
results with collateral details.

31. 8 ee

ANATOLE noted the reference in the paper re Vladinir

Lvovich ARTEMOV to NOSENXO's information that ARTEMOV knew Spanish
and sald there might be a connection to something he vaguely
recalled ahout an interest in or a case ogainst an Anerican code
selerk of Spunish backpreund or who spoke Spanish. ANATOLE

said the period was 1957-69, Ne could not recall details. Ue
said this should be considered a special case for him to work on~
nov for later questioning of NOSENKO if research Indicated this -
necessary. ANATOLE requestee for review any information availahle
re code clerks, civilian or military, in Moscow 57-60 with Spanish

language er bactaround.



\
|
l
\

32. Viadinir SuSLOV and y Ve YAN

ANATOLE agreed that the questions re ¥. VY should

hed of NOE during the first elicitatiaa stares. ANATOLE

be =

“a

vas concerned that NSSENXO not be given any indication of our
i

EB: Question

current special interest Crs

eleted fron paragraph 11 by Sif on basis

TALE. ite, of course,

unnecessary yien revies paper with J

asked shout @@ggmmpand was toldaggmemwas cn sane s

sRUSIIEV and researcher had included question becausc @SREER

in once with

had high US Government contacts including sone early 1950 work

on U.S, intelligence community reviews.) :
A specific question ATATOLA asved was about any collateral

or documentary Information that VAKHRUSHEV attended the Institute

of Foreign Relations. We also asked if there were photographs

had identified

of VAKHBUSHEY’ s wife(s) available and if NOSFNS

thém. He would like to see th See 12 Angust

1954 interview). . p

ANATOLE thinks there may be a significant ‘aspect about .

and V: USHEV's schoeling which needs checking. ~ _

*s school

ANATOLE is speculating on possibility NOSEN‘O was in } litary

Tustitute of Fereign Languages. I had to answer ANATOLE that I

cid not know ff there was any collateral proof that NOSENKO was

R sindert at the Institute of Fereiga/Intornational Pelations a

ts this neint on the logical

i eer. ANATOLE prejs



i
!
i
}
i

-24-

progression vf "OS: s schooling in the military and probability

that hicker educati rould have been under military unless sore

. He also notes

spcclal fanily or ether influence peraitted ch

OSENKXO's continuation in Naval Service and confirms he saw

XO in Navy uniform in ‘farch 1953 in KGB lidqs.

ANATOLE suc ts this asnect be reexamine’ after

elicitation in light of NOSENXO’s answers and information about
eaddieetn mca aeere~

and SUSLOY, who was in Institete of Foreien Relations.

S2ANOV was in Foreian Relations Institute and that
. seers
K was in‘: « ANATOLE sz lates this ray bi
Guk was in ‘litary Institute. ANA’ speculates s may be
area where NOSENKO is hiding his close relationship with Guk -
that he might have first known Guk In the Milltary Institute although
FENKO, Guk worked in GRIT

will
but ANATOLE does not remember if Navy. ANATOLE says he/consider: ‘

GUK a couple of years older than NO.

futher elicitation later and also a surerise question on new

ENKO's attendance at the Military Institute,

polygraph about

A. The paper NOSENKO's Defection was read by ANATOLE

with interest, I did not have 2 copies of this paper. ANATOLE
was told a copy would be furnished hin at next meeting. Certain
comments which follow are based on information from this paper

but a specific comment by ANATOLE was (see para 2 page 2 of paper):

It is true TSYMPAL was a former renber of Department 4.

is illocical that YUPAL was transferred to the Illeral

It
Directorate and more illogical he would travel with the delegation

if he wore head of the Illegals

irectorate. As head of the 4th
nee



doibe no ie @f Jans} and Ellena)] clonents.

ication of

TOLE can only canclide

information is to creat ina of reorganization

his defection,

B. ANATOLE also points ont the illecic asnect of a
Tourist Departrent officer as security officer to such a delegation.
Ne also notes that when senior officials such as GASYKO travel
there are snecially assigned exnert security officors with their

delegations if anv are sent at all. notes that for the nost

part the senior officials travel without security officers except -

protective experts assinned such as would be the situation NOSENKO

describes.
ANATOLE says a basic question for confrontation will

be about the inclusion of a "sneclal security officer” In a

d

haz one headed by the Foreign “linister. He says —

inclusion of a person such as NOSFNKO is v unusual, The

Foreign Minister and his aides, etc., are trusted nen who go
abroad regularly. These are always experienced KS? officers

on the operations in support of the delesations and the planning
is well in advance. These officers can handle anything. At a

ENKON with this

later date AYATOLT says we can confront

jon from ANATOLI

nosite pe



ceroinimamepep oun eine mete einatnese

i
‘

-20-

C, ANATOLE sald the story about

Q's role with

W just pives a reason to us about why NOSENXO was In

There vould be no reason for any special interest by

The resicentura could and would handle any technical

eevices and operations such as NOSENKO describes.

po. /Sidiibeorsxry.

ANATOLE found this connection and Final drinking hout interesting

and said both Guk and KREPKOGO2SKIY would knoy what NOS:

ats

mission was in 1962. I ceuld provide re information about

KOGORSKIY and ANATOLE asked to see photo of KREPKNGL

ANATOLE asked for infornation aboute@Zgp (SM NOTE: SM needs
check significance - where in "NOSEYSO - Defection" paper. What
HOSENKO say, ctc.). .

F. ANATOLE says a later question “OSENKO should be

ayshy in 1962 he rejected the’ idea of using his position

in gye Tourist Department as the logical position from which he
could keep in contact with AIS, i.e., a tourist sent to he

recruited by NO

33. Person

Section, Ist Ne:

E believes. this vill be Inportant area for later

haps, confrontation after ve have opoortunity

sows the cellateral and ANATOLE’ s

aco saventcemescertette ren et TET
econ ciaennieipya nev merit :

i



en ser womgmorteneertspauonim neste erm fe a seem Aen ane A tT

6

role and visit to Parls may be important so when NOSENK® responds

ANATOLE sugeests we doubic check the ¢

SESESRRR chout *

and what he has heen doing te see if there is anything which

briefing of

OSENKO's approach and reexa*ine {BEB background

looks significant now, i.e., anythine invortant piven hindsight
and nore information.

34. The Maurice De Jean Case

ANATOLE said it was innortant to line out in quotes
by date everything that NOSENXO sald.ahout Be Jean and do the same
for the information from Yurly Vasilyevich ___ KROTFOV. These
should then be lined out and chroncloeically compared with what .
ANSTOLE said. On the basis of these conclusions and the tine
sequence we shouldwrtenexamine the problen ef the leakane of lead

information to try to get indicationsen™ least of how, why and

where ANATOLE's information leaked. AYATOLE said we should also
consider the possible problem of leakage in connection with the

WA’

N's Cas@ and the RCMP in this. He also notes that GRIBANOV's
aac

to questions about GRIBANOV we should exanine this aspect also.

Specifically, NOSENXO should comment about why GRIBANGV went to

Paris.

In connection with discussions about GRIP

OV and bis

ini?

discussed the Bu.

cus2 apd ANATOLE was told

tes folleving re chroneles:



Fiapnemeeniy nana erential een nwt sporetermectamcni aman anmae mtn: fem nna miner nemcwnwanetreerat se mt

|

|

Tete meer tat stench emt emen

1S January 4 2) te Ceneva Fron

Y Feb (SM helleves) GRIZASOY arrives Paris froa Vienna -
ago a

«0 defects.

7 Feb, SPIBA

Voceparts Parks far Vienna (CPIRANDY uses
+)

12 Peb Soviets in Switzerland strongly nrotest to Swiss

name CoRsINOV In Vienna and with BUSHE

9's defection.

14.Feh (maybe 13 Feh.) GRIRANOV, according to RUSHEK,

relaxed about "OSENKO defection when PUSHEK. ralsed question,

ANATOLE suggests questions re BUSHEK come later. :

36, Re

11 Teleeran

TOLE there is significant in-

It is apparent to

formation about this aspect of the NOSE"XO case from the FRI.
This goes to the basic question of cooperation with the FRY and

his knowledge which he concedes Is a. basic FPY decision about

-wnat he sees of the recall telegram infornation. ANATOLE has

seen only NOSEYKO's information (transcripts, etc.). The
significance of this may bear on the question of rank discussed
separately hut even without being ahle to discuss all aspects

of the recall telegran with ANATOLE he sugrests we should examine
if wea have not done this the details of NOSENKO's admissions he

lied about his rank and the recall telezran. ANATOLE says it is

fe

eternine: the exact date KOEN) hreke on each

necessary te dh

s there

: who tnew he was being rressured

coovdinaties with the PRI aheut the sresswre on the recall telearan:



‘Pettersen ornare wore assem ter enter i repre eee i
7 - Sata eases ner perenne carn areaannunrane tre kontakt hc nt ma tinsel

Peet h neater

what and woo Led us to conclude the stories were false: what

were the dates involved hetwo SEARO Ss story of the telagran

e tire for

ant the infornntion from anther source(s}: was th

3 could

KO to confirn his use of the recs} enran stor,

have gotten to anethor source or would

it appear the telearanm story had ta be plinned in advance and

bri

not trigzered by confirmation fron “OSENKO: after NISEY
was the other source(s) confronted; was there any chance In the

relations with the other source(s); has there heen any collateral
information reflecting KGB knowledse he has broten on rank or the
elegram steries. ANATOLE suggests this asnact of the question

of bona fides cove later in confrontation and he assumes SM will

be covering this fully even though he hopes there will be nermission

ecord

for him to be fully read Into this. lie was told, for the

“since he obviously understcod the implications, I could promise
nothing since any discussion about the recall telegram and any
other source would mean opening to him full information about any

source since everyone, including the FRI,inew he would never be
satisfied with partial limited information. te laughingly agreed
he would press for full information but did concede he might

(temmorarily?) settle for less than the full seurce information

MIO was complete and

if the context of the information ahout

he could understand the significance of the seurce's position, etc.



stages of dealing with NOSENXO when we confront him with the

1 aan.

at could he Jone but that antinisn

T said we would think about

was not in order.

Staterent © ening Seviet Perine

ANATOLE outlined the steps to ke taken ta obtain Fren

KO a stat nt which in its ultinate vritten form may serve

both as a control and a propaganda instrument. ANATOLY helleves

an? documented

that leading NOSENKO to a Final alsolute writ
statenent against the Soviets wil] not only nernit us to judge
NOSFNKO more accurately by observing his reactions but also

provide additional psychological pressure useful in the final

ATOLE believes the

evidence we know he was on a nission.
final -denunciatory statement nay help tip the balance in gaining

NOE

KO's cooneration/confession,
The steps to be taken are as follows:

‘0 statements as detailed and

A. Blicit from NOs
specific as possible condemaing the Soviet regine, the KGB, the
party, individuals, etc. Tals should be at a fast tempo, (This,
“can bogin innediately.)

* B. After reviewing these statenents elicit from

NOSENXO Increasingly detailed condemnatory statements by havi

him add details about persons and activities.

C. Concurrent with 374 above NOSENKD should be asked

imerate in detail each exasple of these things he did, saw

or heard about vhich brought hir. to the peint of defection. If

eention the UG2 th

eae

as ho ls. .telie rressed For reasons he dislikes
Nets

elicitatioa nrec



-31-

the KGa, showld be led to make statenents abeut reoucnaat

techniaues such as blackmail, hetero-sexnal ind homesexual

trapments. agoinst diplomats, tourists presineat Western

scientists, ete. te showld he led to exrress bh disgust at

Pussian youth and the spying on intellectuals.

D. After NOSENKO has enumerated and elahoratee his
denunciation and condernatioa of the Soviets, orally and at
Tength ke should be asked to write in his em words a statement
which he will agree can be published. He should be asked at
this point, although it may he necessary to ask him earlier, if
he is prepared to make an official statenent condemning the
Soviet regine and specific people. Ve will he told that with
his cooperation we want to expose the Soviet regine on the hasis
of real knowledge. This first statement will be revised by us
to include specifies and which will include statements such as
“I condenn SHRLEPIN, GRIRANOV, etc. for - 0 - - -"; “I condemn
GRIBANOV for forcing me to engars in reprehensible homosexual
entrapments - - “; “I condemn a system which deals in nisinfornation
and confusion suck as that led hy AGAYANTS - - ".

£. At a later stage after review of his other
statements about personnel, the KGB organization, etc: as follow-
up he should in interview only detail what steps were taken to
counteract the danage from COLITZY*'s defection and the KAR

jen, Ne should List all nersonpe] structural and

reorzanizs



nemoesthayern enemas treme ommmermanaintinre t-te ernie craarwe a tmmre eh eeaantottnrtrtneneiabn een etenrtn austen ramneinechimgeinbnte~
: = aaa

asred the speelfic question of when vas a conference held to

consider the Lupact of COLIT.

the loss of docunents.
Conference he says was scheduled.

P, The final written condenatery statement will be
considered for publication with or without YSENKO's anpreval or
agreenent. The statement should he a key element in assessine
his reaction at the polnt where his confession/cooperation Is
solicited and he is told it will be published.

38, NOSENKO's

NSASHA', Case

There was little discu on of this excent to consider

need to review more and consider this a topic for later questioning.

39,

ANATOLE considers this a topic worth more study and
review on the hasis that something may have been overlooked
which relates to misinformation about the Anerican Embassy or
America personnel. We should not consider this case closed and
more research Is needed. .
(ANATOLE sees no relevancy to the questions re GOLITZYN.
If wo have some operat lonally significant angle he can approve

questions but he sees none - he finds this unnecessary and question

15 especially unnecessary. ANATOL



I Set vettamwiceer ene onnies

aaae
ANATOLE cont .

pointed out the b.vic and only question with espect to NOSENXO

is misinformation and he sees no advantage or assistance

resulting from questiois about GOLITZYN, However, he said this

was not his decision. He was told the paper about the GOLITZYN

question was prepared by a researcher who works exclusively
at this tine on the 1967-1968 materials end the researcher
responded to a general requirement to extract information and
frane questions to be asked of NOSENKO which could be tested
against known information. The researcher obviously believes
that if NOSENKO were to make a false or misleading statement
which GOLITZYN has or could deny or prove wrong NOSENKO would
be in a bind. ANATOLE was also told he nust understand that
+"compartnentation in research and on NOSENXO as well as on
“larger issues means that we will review a few papers which are

useless in the larger context eventhough to the researcher who

has. a narrow view the concern is real.)

“40, Gennadiy Ivanovich GRYAZNOV.
‘ ” RNATOLE's reaction to the questions and paper was that they

Will not accomplish much of significance re GRYAZNOV since he

‘ thinks there is a GRYAZNOV relationship to the code clerk cases
which can only be determined after that research and analysis
of information about GRYAZNOV. He agreed the questions could
be used later during elicitation as tine fillers and preliminary
to hard questions but not much will come because the questions

are not to the point, which he did not explain fully.



emmnepet pio

-34-

ANATOLF did specifically challenge “OSENKO's story of his
close relationsnin with G2YAZNOQV as a lle. ANATOLE notes the

fication to the FRI

possibility there was leazage of his ident
and CIA of GRYAZNOY as a source. Particularly ANATOLE says
NOSENXO's story of a close relatienship with GRYAZNOV in 1962

is prohably false because there was no previous relationship

leading to this. ANATOLE said definitely that GPYAENOV would
have been punished if the EGR knew he was identified as a source

to GOLITZYN.

: ANATOLE says there is a contradiction with NOSENXO trying
to build up his relationship with GRYAZ“OV and down-play or,
more accurately minimize, the oF of his relations with
CHURANOV and GUX. ANATOLE believes it was a deliberate part

of KOSENXO's legend to set him close te GRYAZNGY since GRYAZNOY

me of COLITZYN's information.

\ was an ackrowledged source of s
The NOSENKO-GRYAZNOV relationship will be a key element in
; future questioning:

: AL "Co

which ANATOLE found little of importance or significance as a

SENKO Family Relations" was a paper In

ent on >}

crucial point except that as the discussions progressed he de-
veloped the idea that the 1945-50 period may be crucial after jee
all. ANATOLE sees little question about most of his life and
specifically ANATOLE says the honosexual question is not "in

line with available evidence”. ANATOLE thought these questions

would five NOSENEA the inpresslan we are “unprofessional” but



eaiapent averting ratersecnee tym ovr arene in nn aera tra reonom arene enter hme rere elicitin

-35-
ediately. conceded this is really not a problem since NOSENXO

has net been handled very professionally in the past.

B. "“NOSENXO - Homosexual Aspects"

ANATOLE questions any assuaption that NOSENKO had any

“expertise on homo operations. He just does not think NOSENXO
was an "expert" or a “specialist” and points out he can run
then at level he has described with very little knowledge.
a AXATOLE says he knows NOSENKO was not a homosexual before and
doubts ha would have been consulted hy anyone as a “specialist”.
F In view basic doubts if any questions to be used should be
“woven into other topics and not treaioid as separate subject.
atts 7 a
41. RUNYANTSEV Hee
After reading the paper ANATOLE said there is nothing i
vt to ask NOSENKO at this time, ANATOLE maintains this will be a
special question later. ANATOLE directly relates the RUMYANTSEV

case to what he considers was the serious mistake of asking
“NOSENXO about the May 1959 conference. (See N-228) He also

: thinks further questions on the conference should only come
later. ANATOLE saw clearly why no questions should hive been
asked about RUMYANTSEV and May 59 Conference but after mistake
made it may be we will want to adjust and consider what we might

gain by sone questions during elicitation or if touching on this



“been no ‘real interest in natters political with hin.

point will upset the phasing of questions to NOSENXO. This
matte will be discussed further after ANATOLE reads the papers
carefully. ANATOLE was told it will be clear to him that the

May 59 meeting was known through GOLIENEWSKI and there was i

some indication fron this source also of wide scale miSinfor-

nation programs. It was also noted that in my opinion the
questions for NOSENKO, even with hindsight and ny knowledge of ~
how seriously GOLITZYN's infornation about this conference has

been viewed, were normal intelligence officer questions which

NOSENKO could expect based on the overt information made available.

Certainly the questions were not unusual except for the fact

wothat they indeed were different from other questions asked of

/NOSENXO because they touched en political matters. To the extent
that N-228 showed NOSENKO someone at a late dato was interested
in political matters NOSENKO may have been alerted. Certainly it
would seem those questions were completely out of context 7

out ‘of the blue so to speak - and since there was no follow-up

NOSENKG"aay feel there is"ho real interest because there has

A. “NOSENKO - Uso of Alias by KGB Officers"

ANATOLE “connented these were very good questions. They
could be asked during elicitation or later during the crucial
or hard questioning phase when we were assured of fast follow-up
questioning.

B. “NOSENKO - Knowledge Because of Association with other E

KBG Officers".

ANATOLE thought this was excellent approach. He
Pt)



57s

comaented in connection with paras 9 and 11 and using this paper
stressed need to elicit all possible from NOSENKO orally during
interview and no written nemorandua, ANATOLE outlined need for
NOSENKO to list exact dates of all his service assignnents;
when he first met each officer; detailed biography of each
officer, etc. He retained without comment the 23 March 1949
addendum re RANOYSKIY, KUTYREV, and SUROV.

42, Nikolay S. SKVORTSOV and Vladinir Vasilyevich KRIVOSHEY

ANATOLE, as with these officers, separately lists KGB
officers of special significance as part of the enumeration of
CRUCIAL QUESTIONS because they are not only prominent, in

OSENKO's story but also of major concern to us since they work

against Americans. They are important even without NOSENKO.

In most instances also there will be the initial new elicitation
about them from NOSENKO. Then NOSENXO's previous information if
will be collated and compared with collateral infornation,
including previous information from GOLITZYN, after which ANATOLE
will review, comment with now information, if any, and frame
pertinent questions for NOSENKO. Specifically ANATOLE says

that NOSENKO'’s statement he consulted SKVORTSOV about tourist
operations 1955-59 is nonsense. SKVORTSOV was in Gernany until

1959, NOSENKO should be asked what kind of tourist operations,

etc.



se prt nice

: -33- .

43, Nikolay Griporyevich BAGRICHEV

44, GRIBANOV (GORBUNOYV)

ANATOLE stresses the importance of collating all

information about the activitias of GRIBANOV

45. NOSENKO-Asen GEORGIEV Case
ANATOLE believes these questions useful now in
elicitation phase, He wants to review everything NOSENXO has
said about Anatoliy S, KOZLOV and view any photos. I could
not confirm that KOZLOV had participated in the CREW case.
ANATOLE asks if we can confirm KOZLOY was Chief of the Anerican
le Section when NOSENKU left the Section in 1955 and what NOSENKO
: said about early relations including precise dates when HOSENKO i
says KOZLOV was his boss. In this connection it is noted that
NOSENKO says KOZLOV was Chief of Dept I (Page 1 of p2per) then
Deputy Chief of Dept 7 (page 4). ANATOLE says as clicitation :
question NOSENKO should be asked why the demotion and also what

happened to GORBATENKO.

Not unexpectedly, ANATOLE said he vould eventually
es want to see the file on the GEORGIEV case to see what the
tie-in to the Sovicts may have been.

46, Viladisir Lyovich ARTEMOV ad

ANATOLE would like photograph and travel record for

ARTE‘OV.

7 .
i

Gee



=39-

47. Mikhail Stepanovich BANNIXOY

ANATOLE wants background info and photo.

48. Fedor Alekseyevich SICHERBAK

See 47
49, FNU GOLOVKOV,
A. Nikolay Dnitrievich ARXHIPOV
ANATOLE wants background and photograph. ANATOLE

thinks questions re Egil SUNDAR needed and that NOSENKO should
fully explain how and why he became involved with a journalist
and what kind of an agent was SUNDAR and his background, etc.
SUNDAR's targets shculd be described fully and N@SEfXO should
explain the relevancy of this to tourist operations.

B. ANATOLE asked about the Arsene FRIPPEL case but 1
could not answer with complete assurance the details of his
recruitment, admissions, identifications, etc. ANATOLE was told,
however, everyone satisfied about this apparently but would check,

C. ANATOLE suggests full exploration with NOSENKO to
get his explanation for the use of the technicians IVANOV, SERGEY,
and LEBEDEV, Lev A, in the recruitment of the British tourist
Eric LUKIS? Is there a relationship to the Johnson case.

50, Ivan Alekseyevich YEROFEYEV
ANATOLE wants photo and travel record,

AL) |



ee
ne ~ : spn ced metagenome pena eet

-40-

S1, Ivan Abramovich PANASENKO

See 50. }
52. PIVNEV . !
i ANATOLE says this topic is definitwy a confrontation - :
“topic. Specifically he noted para 7 in this connection.
ANATOLE says he needs the substance of the follow-up
and results of the GSR case to frame questions re PIVNEV

case

but he also makes the point he considers the

ce important separately from considerations of NOSENKO, He recalled

‘ Mr. O'NEAL was to review the file with him and arrange interview
Of SERRE but he has heard nothing. On the basis of short

-‘discussion ANATOLE believes there aro unexplored aspects to this

case and parallels with the RUMYANTSEV case as far as NOSENKO

is concerned which may go to penetration in the AY ENB, Moscow
or even to Germany. The tining is important. . A ne

A. Aleksandr Konstantinovich KISLOV

ANATOLE relates interest in KISLOV to KOVSHUK as well

as to the BELITSKIY case to begin in overall elicitation about

KGS officers. lie wants to review the F3I information about



‘ethnymor trannies me erm aon Fen anes een met A rec mahi est ayn nt

-41- H

KISLOV's U.S. activities and surveillance reports of his
association with KOVSHUX, All the questions re KISLOV should
be used in elicitation.

B. In connection with NOSENXO's stories about his status

and cover in Geneva in 1962 and 1964, ANATOLE would like to

review all verified info against NOSENXO's statements, For

example was his diplomatic passport verified, etc.

C€. ANATOLE would like to review the lists of other menbers

i of the delegations of which he was a member as well as the

lists of other delegations there at the same time.
: (SM NOTE: Check N-127, page 7 - he could take orders of &
Chairman on POPOY case. Compare with other info re POPOV case
from NOSENKO. Why would.ke,have orders on POPOV case in his
safe in 19647 .The order was put out in 1959 (58760)..NOSENKO

J would know this in 1962 - immediately after American Section duty.
He would have it or access to it but why as late as 1964 in
Touri gg D. pt.) . -
H D. After considerable reflection ANATOLE thinks it is quite
possible that NOSENKO held the rank of Lt. Col. but that when he
saw he was suspect on the rank issue because his actual history
and his assignments as he described then did not warrant the
Lt. Col. rank witehedsesettyseey to cover his dispatch/mission
and the reward he received he decided to agree and downplay his

|
|



i
H
i
i
{

importance. We had to accede to his interviewers to avoid nore
questions about why and how he became a Lt, Col. ANATOLE
thinks he may have been revarded (promoted) quietly with only
a very few persons knowledgable. (S' NOTE: Check all reports.)
ANATOLE suggests this question for polygraph: “Did the
travel document you brought reflect your true rank on the basis
of your success and achievements of your game with AIS which
began in June 1962 in Geneva?

In this connection also ANATOLE points to two promotions

in one year (1962) (See N-181 pg 27): Chief of Section then
‘Deputy Chicf of Department. How has NOSENXO explained this

when he was not in his first job even three nonths and he had

no major successes in Geneva I> What

«, were the cases he handled and the recruitnents he made in 19627

53. American Anbassadors

ANATOLE believes at a later date NOSENKO should be

asked or confronted about operations against American Ambassadors.
* However, as an olicitation question ANATOLE thinks he
should be asked if he knew of any Anexican Ambassador who was

recruited at any time by SCD?

Later, under the hostile interrogation he would be
asked if he knew about an important high level SCD American :
agent who was recontacted and reactivated when he visited Noscow
in 1959, Other questions to follow from the team of interrogators

such as who did or would have handled this agent, etc.



54, Yuriy CUK's Agent _in Washington

ANATOLE thinks this case needs attention again even
though it may not bear on the NOSENKO case. He says it needs
analysis and future research on tho basis of what action the
FBI took, If there is something pertinent to NOSENKO wo can
consider for later use.

55. Yuriy Vasilyevich KROTKOV

ANATOLE says we should extract and review what
NOSENKO has said about KROTKOV and line out the parallels
in the info. ANATOLE notes KROTKOV - Oct 1963; Cherepanov ~
Nov 1963 and NOSENKO - Jan 1964, and he thinks we need to frame
questions to include KROTKOV in cur considerations. He recalls

KROTKOV promised an exposé of the KGB and this never canee

about.



Sunetee pac se aaresy

SIV tee een erene ee

CORRECTION AND AMENDMENT TO PARA 35/PAGE 28 of

ATTACHMENT B TO MEMO FOR TUE RECORD DATED 7 APRIL 1969,

SUBJECT: ANATOLE RE NOSENXO:

2 - Il Jan 64 GRIBANOV applied for Austrian, French,

(8 Jan) and Swiss visas.

18 Jan NOSENKO arrives in Geneva from Paris.
19 Jan (Mikhail S. ROGOV arrives Switzerland.
24 - 25 Jan ROGOV registered Hotel Regina, Bern
25 - °28 Jan ROGOV registered Hotel Krebs, Bern
28 Jan ROGOV to Rome
3 Jan - 3 Feb GRIBANOV, FEDORENKO, KURISHEV and NOVIK at

Winter Olympics, Innsbruck.
4 Feb GkIBANOY in Vienna
4 Feb NOSENKO defects

6 Feb Soviet Ambassador advises Chief, Soviet Delegation

Disarnanent Conference NOSENKO disappeared 4 Feb,



yeh gyn marrnmestn cee comers masseter erin tnapnratanttiee ma tretinoin ee

7 Feb

8 Feb

8 Feb

9 Feb

10."Feb

12 Feb

14 Feb

14 Feb

Te Fag

GRIBANOV arrives, Paris. KOVSHUK was in Paris.

Soviet official in Geneva reports to Swiss

police NOSENKO missing.
ROGOV returned to Bern
Radio news in Switzerland attributed Swiss

and Soviet sources said NOSENKO presumably had
defected,

GRIBANOV left Paris for Vienna, BUSCHEK clains

to have seen him 10 Feb.

TSARAPKIN, not Soviet Ambassador to Switzerland,

holds conference condemning Swiss for permitting

NOSENXO's kidnapping, Swiss called Soviet

Ambassador Bern and strongly protested

_ TSARAPUIN action,

GRIBANOV dinner party with BUSCHEK at which
GRIBANOV not unduly disturbed about NOSENKO.

ROGOV departed Switzerland via Austria.

Kevster lehe Pary aa member
oF the RUD NEV Delegation,



A. As a result of consultations with ANATOLE 31 “arch

t

ang t s concluded the {allowing tonics

2 Aprll 1969, it

or items were to be used to begin the new elicitation phase

with NOSTNKO. The following outline notes of the topics are

arracsed in the order they are to he discussed with NOSENKO

although it is important only to begin with the topics listed

land 2. Additional elicitation tepics to he added hy S¥ in
consonance with discussion set forth in Crucial Questions.

B. ANATGLE omphasizes that it is necessary that NOSENKO
he permitted te respond fully and conpletely about each topic

XO should not be reminded

with all possible details.

s nor should ke be corrected

of any previous statements or ce

ut dates laces or persons. lie is not to he given any

written assicnments and cach topic is to be cevered as completely

as possible in one

excent, of course, where NCOSENYO may take the “initiative in the

er, he brought back to the main

digression, He should, bow

sic as soon as possible without losing value of dinression.

C. Topi

cs:
1. Refectien Notivation -

essive clicitatio:

St serions: to set stace

terview without digression into other topics

j
u



aioe men etna onret vite

ed

|

2

3.
detail with

e1ses - rare

anyth.

tamer tm mst tse Nn Eg ttt marc hanno ome ie eam tr elif

A.

Retell] Motivation -

a)
@)

@)
(5)

he hates reeine,

Can he give particulars and specifics -
concrete exinples why he hates revine.

Concrete examples of actioas, operations

of EGR (security). why he devetoned

negative attitude vs Kan and rezine.
Concrete exanales of this re Party.
Concrete exammies of actions, attitudes,
etc., of party leaders, the clite, the
hierarchy which caused hin to take

negative attituce.

The above nust he srecial session - then to

be reviewed for further consideration re

statement.

Detail career

“All assignments. nonth, year, na

ving head of

denartnonts and sections 1953 - highlighting

major assign:

General question to have NOS)

nts accomplishments.

iKO describe and

exanples how nisinforcation handled in SCX - give

personnel = what “rind of panes - relations with

FCO - entire KGR - everything he knous without -suggesting



he semen

i
{

4. Leadorshir
Chairran, Yeputies, and their colleagues - yearly
basis 1953 (do not combine years) to 1964 wit detailed biosraphy
of each.
5. Leadershin of FED.
Chairman, Neputies, and their colleasues - yearly

basis 1953 (do nat combine years) to 1964 with detalled. biogranhy

of cach.
6. Leadershio of SCD.

Chairnan, Deputies, and thoir colleagues - yearly
basis 1953 (do not coabine years) to 1964 with detailed biography
of each, (do not go to Heads of Departments)

7. Vassall
8. BELITSKIY - go ahead on basis questionnaire.
9. All heads of American Department antl deputies 1953,
on yearly basis, with conplete dcetalls re biography : ask quostions
on each - oral. :
10. GUK, CHHRANOV, etc. - explore In detail as with
questions. i
11. VAKHRUSHEV
Ist years in Institute Foreien Policy.
2nd question list of friends, classmates with

and SUSLOY - then ask

hiorcrashy when/if mentions VAKHRUST:

nuestions outlined,

en oni etry ans snide Sepene nent 5
i ° : Serta to ara tet “ieee nye teat eet eeu



19.
20.

CRIBANOV Trin.

SEVORTCOVY (with €riends) .

RAGRICHEY (with frionds).

KOZLOV,

YENOFEYEV.
PANASENKO.
EXISLOV.
Documentation -

Explain again how, when received documentation,

why discrenancies, how can you travel - Identity card one

rank order another rank.

21.
22.
23,

Travel abroad, cover, etc.
Use of alias, questionnaire.
Yuriy V. KROTKOV -

(probably nothing yet)



epee arent te ranchte ene ee Mentmrmaineine teen iit neta nte Faimaetate nar lene enna re em oc mmc Lae

\

ele iad gen a ea of Te

todau +
Alueuso for Dacefr Seewnishy
—"shict tateon Topica. jr fam Noseuto”

| Bex 6 The Dretl was ¢
ot [a cles & Stet is Guusdtaked{ _
See ase aneceeasesieeeteeassesiivesl us a war Soaked az. A AL

—B.fh. boaters of, Tas Trerno for.
The Record dated 1 Qrare 6,
Sermpcew t Guatees k Dosersk
unt atts A Bre,

Tow HH - i
US Se i



MEMORANBUM FOR THE RECORD |" 163 Tawney “oF

suasect

AMITCLE RE ae ascetic ps aoe

ae ke ‘GO teeth. with. Kevstieepe.

fick Av war a cetera ent)
pioiastinetate

Cade eberh  urltel Wear

ALMAhEG ——— fact bel G

Lie Srectzef Pa

A Cetet heterl Cpdt eleAlie

blr be, le tte celang 7
C Hivale. i et Sete Leib = eee ;

be, Uet - SY — nfo fides
Bl ny. me 4 santhial C2) tbl ln
te Dee é £O i as

: Grice mo Tne | Tiewarne
I
: fa] |
Vanier ey

Soar 1954 |

a0
chassie izarioe



HEHORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

= cm Soe Ae ‘1 Ee

: pga pie self. Of "Sues? Zet. ns
pure ws ose feg 2

7
_ deateeu. G0-O6). auct tle coud
A1ev ke Deprerly, Chess

of -W Seeyr hg thes
oe 7/2 ee ac
a) Pec euEeey y ELKO w-ceteecl.
: Labatt, 6. Lsks [2 :

A) a1r_etileiihed Bae et
uareeas Stellen fron. peur

2 hie Weseuta'a bach, nn
neers (he. blhen,

: “¢, @0- Jaut of = La ghlhewegs ”
VAN ella, fei be feed
ciniucl bit abutd beet frirof
Ahertbio ACPI Cher Seer be the. fag.

; Tenn
L

eae i



ae {AC She nt a
1k. UCL tek i Anaad ee

Ieuninintiin peas! OF 4 fe é jaw,

TA Style Ce Lt. sue tne “Ye fare leva
Le flcatron. a. ‘

WA DDC ke neLeinG bol
AC Ctl MEUT, Ah OMA teks

Clave der breed: ze, weecel
PS yale Bute Adcuzndd
fet ocel te Met LA fda Slo lta
Selrerd ier, ebled on
nha cade. ce uu) a ae

.

_ ath andl, te.
ALLU ANCL:

eee

js spun Hngusng suns#HH5HH05H06#]55H55801]55H555H55/0Fn=nnnnnss"ne"55snnsHanesnn=esnnsu5nnnnasnnnnHAnnnsHanennnenasinunnsnnasneennennnstHaenaseneseanenacieeCasnacenessnee-  SESHAnSHSGHAESHSESGEGESEAESSGGESESAESSOG*AOGHGGr ~ SGESRSEnSESES


Ste rey ar emneersnetteymencrnienmatanenambiimner tmnt nent mnimetnseeny tay anem teeta

1 Hee a
eee | E
MEMSRANBUM FOR THE RECORD [ 1§ arceciy GF 5
SuestcT Fie neysie i}
. = 7 f
Nokeutle fe te Crt -at-bee bo

teat a Setttpete. a: _palee eae
Lal Chet SO LIE. Mixcatsho, Vex
Wikslaem, Ae Teeawel Pek ‘
CCE. a Biba —— £2 fe Barler my

Abbie? (LEG os Chenveller, pee

biriaws heSatls, Arcsel. 2ereliet, ete,

ia Atiites FZ Ete afin

Leg ci VI
cle Cthiebeeed abepar Le Setbefoecs weoraa i
_ Abtnethiy adr dou, :

Say

2

OrFice ano TaTUE StonaTORe

er , (late i :

Fomw

aee2 1954



f
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD nn \
SSA [uses 2 oF of
LSet tl, Gb: puke Mt i hattbie gy | Gg
’ Vv

eet / Gia é
Lees am, oe oe 7. [aan
Shetets 4. G piheoued® ft UTAY
Luin ps riiede Chad fo ha Tie
ALE? _i) on Ascesstebes machete

_L42¢ ‘% Pa
SBE shape aa i er de 7

NSS, ~Ofeasssatis fiz, Wihid Agee :
e A fad Cho aud k tit by
ets ee Laeck ft ae. alee 4
hee Aids feels _tbtifadie GS bay

Lieieg Hsdy wa

SIGNATURE

OFFICE AND TIME

sone

02 195H

rarer met Sitesi asinetrenenninennneratnmerottnehiseertnanieeet engnerrineea mute rm ton nati hatte pte


HEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Date

/ 50 fcec™ CF

rie aa

— oa . Orbe

Beet lirse |

ae a

Ae ae
rales
fbn sith, etch Agi,

Bid ack Cee ele yet Feuk pie

OFFICE and FaTeE

‘STGHATURE

aeez 1950



ns Wa. mnecey, bY

Tine wownee

SALE

He -
ate Ler

Cz Meat. ous Safes het ottat Fae k,

fh SS & hak Ltiu, told (J fener
hie. me Lee ae. Aouad A evertted
Sa “minster yl Miia belt ab e Ate
Cline tart oe Bcttrtses Adlets. WA

i
AOubtina MatFles Maken -

tonite dravls t tay. bret, elf. Herr wit ht bos.
ZA Sty Lats hethetArey sub Ulin s
Kev siialp , Pradshte 2et aw vit,

Ste) Sey aaatt froma béau § berks,

Cima Zi kan? kote $B. GEG ALL,

Cataxor) Cherthanoe jréors Shoot Bap aed,

‘ed ts dace “E haficins UPL
KEV Hhle States,

-/ ot
Geiss
Use

32 1954 | Seti

440)

CLASS EF IcaT ton,



"Acerneetreoentn eget smnnmn auntie ee meee ert tetera inn eres aS er

Dare
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD z oe (as ey 9

“ CHEREP ARES Wwete-ul, a

CERRO T CER ethgeaite = 5 page aor
-_

OFFICE amo THTLE Stonatere

Fomw

reer 1954

i
H
1
H
|
i



| !

Pl ara

a a
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 1S ba OF
recor
yo iG
Kousitick - ta 4S, chiefs, |

sella,

LC etere tee , es . Wad SCD

wel FCD, Me was anak plat wee “2 2 seule “a

Gesatele hEL punk Abe cpl Le

EAE pal? 2A§ AFECEN of ACCLEI LL fr reste ta
etn ss Pea |

Jlisatte Stes. ZG ee fo Sete y
ha Leer dick hebved cbf a peg te

tte MS Ware Girt, eves Big

wctttated ucts terttircct jes ee

LS hivatole Lasprs Alene

Aes, LAA frbied. ated

D2 ae7 aA eae atten,
£2 Aa ,

let CLOGALLD Ginls. Mater tit
uty dd siviheake

cilan 4a sh pag Pi
aes eae ee

OFF ick aap TITLE Z Siewatone
a ae
ae. (hee dee

auth. |

(401

N


1 ethorseane tment screntnsatn perenne nets margaret meee centage in cerning ea

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Suaner Five wowace

tAmaea MAUL DeVA

a Amakede_atnting au Ta ctoteaepel Nia
Statlereul Sy ‘dey Gale, Ant ae KG Seq erty
Tikes be ature 3 “af etted, Wet a Shaun.
Sie Auaeh be it bs, Sein ene Sie
Raiwieds ud Galine trlrife in HS - we
ES

tebe tte.
Lure ke Widen She a8] aily
Cae. LL st Lerins, = htrele Peds bud cn’
ret widbet puttin url Ob4e
oe Be ack et Via

1 Gch piel When Aca dt :
ee

| saidi hoe madd, ae
2 DATE cP |

4

ES |

! nd ce Shee
Sr 1954 | SECHET T :

tear

cuassir ation



a

rar
seocet |

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD WS inanmbanhiiad 6F

pester Oreaccerrrs

i

Bt & AGA BELL

- plo estntcl phiutity Varal
fer, Atéeer whatd kage C'a- habe,

| A ation tensancaited Dhak vale,
SLaiede Leon Kae, btw ettecl VE,

Mtert eater ato beviittretcé eile

Cult. whos . ROE Lhe He

_ Au dsnees $6 Th daeette
daa bi AULT fob fit rule N- 6-6
tlostat pS iu unl peerad—
futh cebouy Ty ‘te, aetel 42
tad. S2bu. aa whens d) » ©
eA ub hen cEieUd, etdtth
Lage 2 <2, Leaclietath,, at
42, A, Lid Aue Artie wheel hey
Aiatly tad. Hadid ata bur witdisabele

A Tex tik Pua AL afta teesn

——

OFFICE AND. TATLE

‘StoMaTURE

fudes
et

Fore

aes2 1954

(403



cee

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Yo Medarks Duties | ‘cer eis che

~ tit fea

ete "10 ee | Bn
Zt Cferer e- CUCL”: Fa

a las stesives “ tA hah Y fad,

EZ
he Svar gan ar gered by A

e/a AL war" depts " fe wearer! he.

Mal. edly tu orld ween crite A_wctes

Keres teh. Pichi aul,

Ake ae hen e nel sade bleu Lue CUGG©

fids 21 oo a Shaved Craber

Wrhed thud 3 ae pelbeal _
tll SED nn r btlypo ~

AO études,

hin itéuunbte ko tentcl Sfry Zin

LSehonele iivodemieel duel tse CL ! baereehe

Lose ABA Tse. fo Stir, wet we Ll

Gb tity th sto! AL Ct £2, ita

he TE “Us le Lfith& th aul 2
ps ters, = Guer

Fuck AND THTLE

7 7) ;
rep ante ft ae



pray (
VhUiite

MEMORAKDUM FOR THE RECORD

Tusseer : Tree wuwoea

é 2) fl iat Dukes a Hetred. clte Nagel

A vay ins bne lucas Z
7 7 g E x —_
_Strie ta. (Loree ZAG ect Sea neti cliaty — —_|
Me Or. etAdctied Petet La tC xe AG.
iil eee —— ALMONTE cs Cftin Arete
ining Ante ab pric,

2

StowaToRE

U.S. Nafes
52th 1954 le ee SCOEET., [=

errice ayo time

i
:
:
i
i
t
i
i



Eo ieesanontianet mene mre sence ASHTECH Sem BERN Se ROM SEE A AD HS IT Et ITER HES OEE SSI

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 15° Jaw 6 7?

Ve Wave KO

MTS tees Getet eck —= Thad

Lieseteh fia Aheulid br tet< hers

rte tefipracatle 10 Leet tate Sate lr titee
i

z : . : isi
Aiton ge (bdic ger Acdtel dmefaeb

ia
beth Qtrered bien. duis es pouid

Nan EO - Dea bf ae

(

Dep I Stab tA tater js Wo.

Goad ae Bp persceeete ate.

Ae. __ttewicliurs te Ae TOE) “fi, Tebe2e\
; é

\ thal EE Aare flawed Lutes:

weet fit eft ihe Sa 7

Orrice ayo TeThe Bionercat

!
3er 1954 | aSEGae bs



hae ee. ttle tbe Aatllevrass

da Peloct Zack
hack th aikiuts eid
Bio sae W task Elbe oO A,
he Cas DIME Yeh, celitnakecs

al AMEUMS  finsesw
t

ae

—

| eri

: (Preeres aeYye

i wit, FR, Rute .. :
| Me tose eseeiicie i es ;
:


Semercet gag sarememumenestnsereckiie Werte Seer tee pp TER HEE TE US OCHOA AREER OTH BALE OE PET LOPE PER STE EEE LOT SI Nn NT STA

‘ (
- : DATE
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD Bl January 69
suastey arearrertss iat

. : A, Ps ‘i
Mescwto Berna Ly

—o_deult mat euces ¢ Te diver bbe Tisch

ran ~ Z ' ~ ee 7
heel py tld ce Lz wunca teseae) 2
/

4 Ateteinenrce Crcatots peclactlid

zt

4 fre B Save, aud S hfilon

WATile de Ctl, te £2 feel
1 Aaa A

ra t a
Mee amr Tiate efleutse, AUB OL ANE CA

| ro] a aleol seers pLotethi Z, i

Terria ae Tee + Trenton
(Ct SE lien.

Fone

ree 1950

407

Ai
etsuricetioy



cate

MEMORANDUM FO THE RECORD 17 Jae GF
7

TaeeT aren
TAPE - 1
Beetpal te lunes. of
fteutsierindt pf LQyhe weiter geste

eetl i Pek ChE? Rarete fe wee tes oktect steep
tec beteritrierh Aric Shue. t
PEDE ELE Acta frets

Libs Eritioy ceils

Vika pefeec —— Ait “pat Sy Nea filte

ti 5
Bet it 4G a a Se La, £ Lut Bisa - se, eves mate
Dest heb ar fe wenrette bake

a
A leads ‘lear to Og: Ly TF Safest
mae a bas Bebtrrtul watt we O0re3, Fo
A subs souret aA ctties
Baelon (282. perv to pid Cres
Lea¢ eet pute rss fe
Oetece Le $Y. akiclyp ty serine :
| Leakysin, Leedited! to ba-bb KE
diswied Lech trcb iD ef - ato are

Bhi wy pt 2p lichile: Cate. ae

cbt tos be ae

A fet eet ves cltead fh hance tee
ie fa CC thirst 2 feeb
Leech te die fee wits Pee aeeae = fpees

OFFICE AND TITLE SHORATURE

liye

tel 7

Toru

yor 1954



apne nereert Men cts ns ment etet nh lnm reins emome aceon ahem ett memes chee Pre a3 rt ane laa

{L gessr |

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

sebater Th woweie

Beas Sues —

thieeb geelen
Bel Avtn :
LALA Ey | Ae eat wWtith 42G
0 uh ate git —Chid wligh SB
ef cot fl handy,
ue 9997/2) TAG. fd BiscirnA<

far._beroetr iets

DUDA ALE CLA,

42s tht Ade CPA :
Crs F tint Coasebedseticr §-¢ wes ee cen fO

Guo Lhe ae tect hie cs Cgeed) for
Cbeealere Ope, -

Ance wet. Ceuta Cu stees ~ tlialesiad.
if Aardeceas molt b delete Mbit =
Pe res e- Couelerpedua: wel Sten herled-
be (fetta Vel ef Hw ee awa tive,

‘Stemateme

OFFice ano FITUE

Face

re 1954

or

i
i
z
4
5



HEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Bowser

LET ht NO

a) Lrusi Sty

Mishle nbs ae oy

ap cor ~GListites, 1 pete on CRE -

: ca u pare "
HO ne! SpA = AG! Jy al Lire: gy ~ LPIA tas.
DME Ppnen Gs eek watt ee

aaa ea. Chirk gable an — betel /
L ypc ba Metishag Ope Ane
ae hea fale of! hap Lik. Oy Bullcvst Lees,
praia A Lae

oh MiSe1 Bb ae he 169: + Baad Wheb

“WMlurk befne. - led bere Penk 2 ytae

7 eae
hitiatd, CaS ee (#5 beta. pect

Shan fo Aesanvler kthalf

Blaby Chiat. Lée. Ef — Laid 40 KER

Clea teac =! ayo: plbrgiurabrin  Asbsie facts
Sie t eCrctnry Adauty . Gnued

| 6G) + Saat SOd- £2 ots pinele raed

OFFICE aNd TITLE SICNATURE

Lomet Afércet Hlecer TF He theitren Alaa? lesen

Tom

7.62 195

stui
CUASSUF CAT IES

{
|
Pret ga ra ae Sheol es iy) leis. fatete


Vena = «02:

NEBORANDUn

Somer ét

U

neh bectcsat.c! a hs

Catdstcedtuer fat brett Bibjeale

ella 22. ber to Ell Sty -de Gee

. oe hits. kee bes jbAted. A =

ame vary ini “Wdiien. Lee bee ches

seh lag = parall fo Calif,

Fh, tech L Lastts. Dads: El pa eres " SCh

_tinpo etratolts to 01a jntisd Leioahe get:

th, LO. slat « Aefftew ca hebawd,

By AMEN Ly a heelg. ittenel =

seco = chanauth a a ty wife lesserstal [os

Al #4 rake Abo Len hetahay oie RY heseuted.

Ornice ano TITLE SIGNATURE

Fon

v.67 1954



a

A ctLCouks

“3 ES Ci BEA Ys
LZ. artieee A Met wide! thay Al stole Ansel
BLL -<f. LOC tn ceil BE Gull :

v

: a 2 ileal Clears
Attic tech er Oee,
a partcey lee tue pisypous — ©
"9. bieoaus¢ = Ee x
Trade ine delt. ‘key = secloge

Mestectrs. fren pree Th

at CoP deer ot
7

OFFict ano THTke Stevareae

Fone

v.02 L9SN



ciaet isi

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Tite wuwae

Ceteel GEt o
7
ruth Luhere,

pursictee: Ly
axe Cette. “g
Stine 2S Cities
trad cer clined
sia are

‘

pig at ws a ue fee 7 les {0

Me EE AAAS iene pe Cin ~E
Masui. tor. laa NM ct! rh Seve LI
(ier ee ine FP ee iy
Saw Masel td ume — Gaile wrt feepie matt
fl beth Seid Card werraa becntssn GC facie
Luc pa Least an Sebeter:
Axed DN. jak = net (iid L ues lteccal,
iter

Oreice ana TITLE ‘Stemareme

tore

yee2 1954



1

HEHORANDUM FOR THE RECC2D

ALERL a Freda are t= Btn he
é

= ara tf Be haven fast:

2 hel! aMtiedees ee Ofte ts thet!

ane Prieto on dr atth cael cue They

pic Mewes peated, Grbler Ferd Urine

Ltawcrlersegelrets = ed suet fap tlr Lo
: as
~ ps

ete tr ere y
F

7
weeW 2) lle at:

fms 2
LA Thiel Ac laticd Creel ae ea AY ae
7 Nit, —

1280 Liges on k

wc

FITTS wes feheti, Tt

.
we FG = telicen Woh tee, hell cl

we be Odyut seer pes! ate MA Lins ae

Tone wl REN ATAL L005 wd lee

Breage Is Cneree an br Meh Marcusy

orrice ano Tite siemens 22, AT,

1954 | aac nel TI
na evesnueneatins |



MENORANDUM rO2 THE RECORD

(
Lichad ee ae fp acter

offsite. Vigo ieee ann

Leet ) 2200 + 702 AGQaUi

ECb + SCA. ifjis

iam |

ee

[ita tel

= Comusttess Rake te lees
ait Geert — Ceebiert in gttrse)

Berrrvivttecl tl

Pecektwelitay cbvet Regn +

be ACfLaW iden tlisa Kel

bokten Aid gue Ctl —

Statauod © hay Mey wean.

L

bus ives Larus CUA tr dltets Seweeeg

Sthrtonl tus’ #:

Mile [pers -

Fate une Ae

Mes. - Croelerg —

wht alt Ofer Valin l. Abit aeres G—

fyb (ude lie Gave lage tenth Cewts

¥

werice na Vinee I

‘StCMATURE

Tome

7-62 1958

aay


ory

errercecsr)

n cute tial Gp Je
1 Avdsees MW hips VS UT IAY Ea
yi tnleit eA.
Pie ve = Aw Cx» paaie cepa aller srsecy ?
Anaines. a oe ae cae eee MeO Qees -
4 Sespefedi al Ad ebeira Stes ifee cee.
fon — eo” bad tnwTeey Px ih PEER feads pean
Cages tes tore te ecu : Lo nak
ia Siraps. Onslay 5% terriet corfercbiu® fer KGB ply
[bors Mts Aiek Ageia lO fie Ih Ly?
t Afetesk. ligeetituay Ca
= fetictses y rae
VEE sheep W cmerell ~ Pore nattenbas CANE).

ef CO

Vas Ble ~ ae “ae aps wad.

tle, weeleey

nesratiinrs = Zitler + Sic milect aunts

Wether ie Lplt: ‘tf o Seve twrfahe,
wean Criceata —

¢

OFFIGe pad TATE ] ‘SiewaTuar

os 1954 | SEG



ToRneF Fite wuware

Bice Byes beivte ay ethene Se VY

fed ot de plas ya lr’, a OA (hta
‘ths bid AL. Cfel firut Dy ot LB
Sabet bites athe. aa Le oT etre aint
Dale (Cer tha luce,

ZO ee ee ¢ Sees Fees

é ee ‘A é
an dthent itn Lainer Errtecirec, Cllen ta Crit

J‘ a .
Valtrcestics A ables Fh sppie: tid Uecker
7

Nhe Speci iut

bit, “ee
LEI aed

Crrizt AMO TATLE ‘stoxatear

Tomw

7.62 1954



Ru tees.

CI ee Gree

ee Gaye mail pofhet 2
- a

4

CROLL ket enbry mn pened -

Aide t apes bons Mors aan atfirced

CKO PAI jhe. ty fi £ :
Sorel renga

Le ee et tei cheney pier ts

E2264

fied hen purv. SR, kbar lie
SLobcprri,  ~o Set f

wre ae nse, beteplatowlt

Able ther C Bares

SrcnaTver

euasstr ization



t t
Weaare

rss

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

heb peny he pout gif ott

tahs su. © AS ky Que

4 whe
AIA = erate 2 CLOCK = Se ledacerty

Spreiel aseesweih ~pirter tele: J ite, -
f

at Dessttuaatirs Cretstheir — Gaur le ut

ib clersour alia tuirtote by ud

BLE Uae us (2-281 © 2d Cnutlige, —_
dad, OQ Lfrjrrk f fteer resit. Z at
jae pt ae -_ i Stes
2£0 Geeebb beeud Walid dade
/ /

Saf — gasticlarss sift ate bf pélysrapl

Ltd cAutsa?
eit

OrFace ano TATLE Stonarer

srr 95h | orate

oy

Seteltt aoe Cansiaiors



2 amapaamagen me

Gouna teks on aes oo

Sed uv ote — ECD taten bo beth,
t

Chasawue Gal Vougsule

My
2, faetyad frist a af
tyS_(imEuh~  “Riegov fu bou NS
asc Ctupleted aun dike, — use ts
Select Gp Laine bipaté Law et
C6, ; 7 Zt 4)
KR cillers tity AE je

Bircerrtion cbecy dejece! t

Leek ahecty are
ee gaeaspil Lest

CFONCE AWD TITLE ‘SacsareRe

tor

i
1S rgse |



fee mm Lay Ate.

std -a ete

bes S7_- Leet be toda de art - Whed wha,

LAL aA tert ts Victtale, ta Uesh .
LEA G ace Abi by
Muutineod is Yerstiuh) ) hth with Foceb ws

He Det = Yrrrevass ogee ue ee Agath Sout Jon

Vewwrcad. (vere hal Zee ate
aa ¢ ‘xi. cou ) aeffer $ yey Westies ie Tage
AAPL OF (£).
” Peerieest ap Seesaucel(aete ALLATE aol et ET ge
Bebtu lV ax chucll€ er abpeey Bucivery acid be.

sickens dest. betel: © augehle
sc feern (ltr Seber,

Orrice ang TITLE ‘SiomareRe

fone

rer 1954

4402
CLASSHF CATION



bigest = —. “wtew feté. - Ure — ete
yi ae
ae

EU — [ite aul Foan Lakh
OD Dek Ay ch. cher sl cu bee fal.

SS shoey frees Fan poeliced At bnachiteced-
Auectaciueg Paro Care ~
BbQAL P24 hi farses La. LSusrre) Mia feo
Ae CAA

ated Chie pa fobetae
;

(ee atm Gubrerurcet We
7 7

‘Orrice ayo TIME ‘Stemarene

tom

or 1954



packs Les tht tol Sa: BGG eee tc thar,
u v

Haale ft mu Uretin - woul
ntbts Cec! ta! Berle. in 58

Mach KEL eee Ci ateen CA 2UC~SBlvocl

AE. a
CE? Rou facut
ay nese

aon LC ws Ves. Aewebieie lor =

$$ Cruclat goestics wel pes ra i Sas

Efi foiitins Waa He Ce gquictl

Wit 8s 12 teitiowriy, Peele Agtee
v

Toe to att pe doch

OFFICE AMD TITLE ‘Stemaruee

re6z 1959

Fou |



an

moni nte the wort hod)

: Ep Svtn,

Obsrlude Stectcwcy | ALrt-

4 Alen A -
TERED = Be hp
Gf, (ode Crs pt Cbree

Mech ty be. PERL SL

flos. (Opa sae ees hetetzp—

7 Bab se he. :

Vers al?

Orrice AND TITLE ‘Stomatuee

Tom

2 er 1954



ane rman ot cee Cae ee tem FL a a tame aReG fone Yaa me ee REET E

hard
wath

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECG20

giaa anaeiassio® 4-5 ioe
ie
i a TA lelice etes Slee. (Sto
Ace ta 3a Cub wy,
Lette Le if.
jieke és ote Bls = alowsd ‘1 72
' Told Ahr Tedd ve po oe Bott
pastas a.

Cheat. oe @ writia ter Mav
tio Bayt ath 6 auty 3
heatoee: Bt @ra und Lotrl
Wa. pertecatly when Gactheev dae
aa Cattansty AY sgest gf Aifaiten,

leatt. CAeclen, — Frist sfoelt te bios,

OrFict and Vitte ‘Stomatere

{Per 1954 cull ia |



a a!
LAG

fh ‘

ZEN hu = af ie. reri as Te
KGB agtis ¢ oe ‘a SH = A be Bethyl
EB ase een LeancA Tats thal, 2. Sais

WQS nto ae { (sn )} fahev 28

Belicia as £0 Ceti hens led to Blalie.

LaviniA — Glieven) siete» A toubuded”
KeB UB eh - whose. me ind tr Qlahe -
J toga Laks tet. BEC hee aur fawn k6e =

Bae riditvzee KER Sen pies ing aeliats (it

css rita Cereb

ervice ao Tite I Tiemarcae

| SS ves | CET |

cuasaretcatey

ves



cle

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECGRD

rrerncrry

naeey a

Usdisk 0 bigs tt ners 8

tt pag
aweustes AUF belive ibCahe ia

Yo b2 gbul bho idtatect

A OF Gree Gare, ALE

‘ v .
Ui Creectyeucet 400 Se ttrne -

7

(fess ttre: tar D ceenfieg.

lich fesed brary Court Mita bes
Nees — Lt 6 hfe. Cliassecd LUf-
Deter. Billi lenreti- less fe

Birdie tx. Kowa — DE Cetieein.

Agel aduct? — fet @S lyausr,

Mes UE. DE Gitte; Phy =

OFFict AND TITLE Siowateat

yee 1954



THe puwate

Tes. ade. = se

(he seuss 4

Lp Ad

ealanl td Bak kn Fidayr

oo Recess mr Ofre iL to

! ZI ca Zeit Thine izmor Grtheg to
{ POT or Cobibatine titans
NDS mato (st Ces

Chains | he ata

QPresen Ce - (yuh -

J Semitieel p. Gris = Qui.tes :
“Toweles |

ECD wits. week wed led dst Sep

Ghus Penal ce - Ths Shag ee

é faq We ee ¢ nett i
1

1 SST tose CSENAGI,

ee nee nes meagan



Tile wawate

Lh Qtr Z

Bue 62 — wen Line, “GU?

<i, oetihee ted lathes bo Qeple Vibe G 2

SGare lonely bo unhoet »

Gusts fa LOS Cord acy Lint
bs lad — Garbana— ward len at

Wage sto. rte’ Tuerele bauer Coscia ty Qos
U i

Ten Tal uto DES tearre ~

5 to . . - oc

Parlin creas Peditia ot Toth. 4, «66

Poe ee Sen”

DA = cree freed furl (ST flute tebe of
a ES : t

Lemued bee Ae ac Shei le bss hater

Baber al Veta! =

‘Orrice AND TITLE i

SIGNATERE

40n

fer 1954 e SECRET. |



‘ gt |

IM FOR THE RECORD

53-44 te “se.

buumen @dta. sce Bi

Lf te thn re
a i 40 Jo - '
cvtuty by Sardis -
Tiake Gu ao DA teube ofpcou frecuct’
_theten, Chan Gri ten + Eula
Wedd Ctra! lea s2brett
Qunlses a word Keicevel
Ste Dart Gite fateh. dha wW Tnteulig = Gti
Sonia ——

Chet Bue skeemmcnurted We5 te,
fire Btersric an Koph ace feu [eps
whe

* Leten — 2S frele- tLiat asd
teeut Bho bese

OFFICE ano TIME SICwATERE

if
ia]

Ser 1954 | 5 EAS ee a



HEHORANDUM FOR THE RECGRD

Tit wesoew

A¥aesel -

a

Ta Gl ve afareds Jamu Sar
Raebare rely a teed cent Bree Ay

Cu Tie atta <

obewdule Hd if vee beces Pew <

cau ray — cbt wus schon
eg ati wate Caters
7 — Ao Aekart 4

nee gehts kK (etn

cere 2

SienatuRe

Soa2 195%



oat
MEMOSANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Ears

Side (opler

a a :
zt chthlbs pias hited c. uf LY,

Victam Kotha lise, -

(stile Ohm’ ntctrae, ow KE | |
Whese Qhid, - Rare hed Gtet sha
Titec act lew Uerulig —
Wiarsr darren Tanai . :
ny SPB ree hinbrece —
Gacroks sati\ TB. Zid ug
evo Suutarrle, Vas & Cuafo i
Cnzia pound =

luc rhe win at

Orrick ano TITLE SicnateRe

oy

rez 1954

saa



Krushuete prt od.
2 attr Crust be Comet -

Lago tis (ESF
Dt OOD Fe eee :
Gl Abt cbc Sab wut Llp Ccli> f—

a ene

£

es panel ey 7S EY gn
AS piveruley - Meco env

: —

orrict m9 Tite Siewatese

reow

1 SS 195%

|



. tapew Chat tucteoakis, tha (6h
Leanwd bo Waturd Q/A the ter hous
Clint Cline “poy ofits tL) he)

Ce LEE CY ater =
4 a ae £

AOY SAK  Bhhsgihk — Zor tke

dX» + ee te
wet tge t EL. Deh Perete ct LAL

Lille faanchle legeiln te were £ trie

Le Lhe t

Foose

veer 1954

oy

i
:
i
!
i



papees oe
a ae i ie ler anee ster sete tya, ep

list
£9 Semper’ Bho Sete hee _

-tereant ‘li Ie ie Aber Cfesitead Pebors

LAL Pikes Loads of eaten -

Harn EMP, heat Ped 2 head off
Settion ZULU ts £2 —

Mabel a Ape Lertscet_t-

Usk COTALAS teil rs TERED

hat Ey ~ thers Yo Aedteulsa

Lach ited eet fo AV Of etn
~Peab abba ‘ad

i dees. etapa ttect fern Viva Crtu Ge
ALTER EO

Orrice ano TATE i Stonatent

Fou

veer 1950



Dad

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

~~ Ge SG ete a’d

ie Lreei Shr eies

f Bias <

saat ry a
fitiaclrtr atbrors sieqgerleeys 4
é

tee are —

Cla - COAL Attu G0-G0

files oases Case

an feonsp Fs -— fo

2 AU S Atop —

SA —

Lay Mey ldGarde Carita —

OSwalhd - wcttung to SE

Fork _fe fp Bela = o had bcandt
vac lt ne! Vad satceserten

SIGMAT URE

Tome

aor 1954



ite ne ES Ny oe a oe enya Aa a ee AE A natant: se pe

ie -
bo er

“* ae
HEMORANICM FOR THE RECORD

rrerrerry

Deer fee veaR|
CC at eae

f
Ale toy cfeer eevee Aja uenrcttet”

ang lteter — Care une f
aed ly to _ Coties tO ALer/

Qomthiirerchrerc Coruntee
Fen Se SC2b foe tcl oye al Tey.
Cont cttit ALing Seater et LT
es Ze7)) — 4b 2 Dix ys aXe
MAQRUUL aE oe
Bet Lorde BG Le i
Lh S L029 ae assent

7

£

Prat fer paeshede af Cte: eter eng.
FC D i eA bie ther CU.
btele é

Price Anz TINE SHCMATURE

Tow

7-62 1959

(407



ESCOANI ~Lopcepep recess
thick tk Ctebi wet AtGe
¢ Giwk tome. tajo to!

(thal sack

.
(ae! sdb)

OFFICE AND TITLE StowaTeRe

ore

reer 19SH



Saieihandienetitianettitihemetean hanna ee mae ree ee eer: insane mt men enteiienaieehenenteeeinaiteenanienemnabememmantainie omen

OBGECL

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

1 le Mies A LU. i site
et fs. au

oo LE. Syd  ftidcnusas aa
Btbeerit Thiash prt ttcb el.
Va

aA. eatEalty ibe Zot ge
Lisle. dhe SHCA FP. prin

te Western bea aus EL
oo Wekte tite tute’ [ne @Ot4.2,,
Dee 60- Yast Gl - ‘
LAE Fee ian uti, Sr fe Pe)
OA ru el Bs put etl fetref

UAeette BER ter Seer Coote, fox

ete v
iit on OFFICE ANO TETLE T ‘S1GNATERE
7
eo). élertee ad |

«er

62 1954

Tore |

chassis ication

no RIT ARERR oc aoe sftp,



oe Stee [ial befor Les

atria AL turmece LadbAL
ee er _ak en: tle
P78) Al A Ct i tbesas

Mela SAMO IO Lb hte EDAMRLEE |

StLO dL! Bap =< Aisa —

lat pruserl ise ae LL,

LAMA, Fe

Paral AAU ns

Sete! Ger aks 3. o Leu
wat Ab arab, Lek aT oe

th acuaedetee stout z
fe Bata cael

orrict ano TITLE i ‘Stonateae

CLASSIFICATION



r frepererrenicsy | /
. i.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

eleeeerd wt LS AY!

Cewcl Flextime tatieste ‘hee et

Lads. Slévwntee Used Leer Lit ae

a — Lz Lge’, eta.

ftAren, rb pdeeud LULA.

f be
. yee me Shvdsbeef Aad uile

ee A eae le 7 fe Letcs

Orrece ano TaTLe ‘Sionatere

er



weEae , erearcio!

Vl unctays'rieo naan ee ie cone’ Tiab (Oo secret
Fs ROUTING AND RCCAD SHzeT

SUA.ECT [Opronoly ve

Pmoes tie icant in i

Chief, SR Division | | att S$ August 1994
fascia ere areca oat | cxsgeas | COMMS Invember eoth comaant te thew how whom
eid | we whes Drow @ line across colwew ofter ence comment)
i

Y t

c/cl SECRET - EYES ONLY - BY tiAND

p Sasssia
ihe y
Pine |

cy G10 CRSE CO] secret «=O conripenTian 0 ifony «©. unctassiFizo



st 1564
ORAL T POR: thier, Cf Staff
SUBJECT: GOLI comments on the
NOSLNKO Case

Introduction and General \ssessnent

1. Ia reviewi
connents on the

the value and validity of GOLITS*s's
NK cas2, it must be borne in mir-’-
that altheugh his curr oiments do not prey mu

that is new GOLITGY:. h hes alvays been a key to cur
understanding of the NOSENSD case... In 1962 NOSENKO's in-
formation was closely keyed to what we could presume to be

a kG3 dazase asses t cf SOLITSY.'s defecti a fact
which ve only noti on cczparison of NOS! inforaa-
tion with GOLITSYN' Sinilarly, what GOLITSYS had told

us about Department "D" encdled us to see how such a high-
level provocation could t2 run, Furthermore, his most
recent comazents do in fact nrovide useful support to our
analysis which had already been conpleted. We do need now
to assess how much GOLITSY% nay be in a position to help

in our assessment and future handling of NOS Q and other
ramifications of this KCY provocation. His value and future
contribution can be assessed on several levels:

a. How much new hard information can he
contribute?

b. flow much new insight can he provide us
through his owt knowlecse of KGB procedures and
personne] applied to tho naterials of this case?

c. How much guidance can he provide in our
future manipulation of these operations and in
breaking KROTXOV and NCSEXNKO?

2. Point "a" is discussed in paragraph 5 below. (hile
there are several useful iteas, the total of new hard facts
reat. On point "od", his insight, as reflected in his
2ats and analysis, is disappointing as one would
a more penetrating analysis
d earlier. And in point "c™
3 no idea about how to break



i
|

ov, other thaa to point out that it will
be nost difficult, that we sced to do sose more groundwork
and preparation es inj to an active attenpt te
do so (including pe g a penetration of the
assy, ‘losce: Best). and that ve should use well
interrogators.

qualilie

3. Ne are faced at this point with the eminently con-
plicated task of breaking NJSENKO. (hile preparing to do
$0 we are keeping hin productive and exanining the ramifi-
cations of the operation.) Our great need now is for hard,
inceatrovertible facts with which we can confront NOSENXO,
to prove to hin that our conviction about his ilt is
based on sonething sore than analysis, which is what he Soares
now evidently thinks it is. For this, our only innediate
asset is GOLITSYN, who locas so importantly as a factor in
this operation, We therefore hope, despite GOLITSYN's
relative lack of contribution thus far, to exhaust all pos-
sibilities and get fron hin every possible detail. Therefore,
since there are many loose encs and unclear bits fron his
29 June report, we are prepiring followup questions for
GOLITSYN which night assist our task, Some of these questions
are attached hereto as Attachnent A.

4. GOLITSYN's principal report on the NOSENKO case was
contained in the oral presentation of 28 June 1964. As
background for his study of the case, GOLITSYN was given a
wide range of materials on NOSENXO including 113 pages of
responses to specific questions GOLITSYA wanted put to
NOSENKO (see attachnent B for a listing of all materials
pertaining to NOSENKO which were shown to GOLITSYN). In
addition, GOLITSYN was given the CHEREPANOV papers with
supporting documentation, as well as the KROTKOV case and
manuscript, the BELITSIY, the UNACUTE and POPOV cases.

In general, this was nearly everything available to us in
our analysis of 25 March, 1] May and 8 July, with the ex-
ception oz the SCOTCH case.

Khat_GOLTTSYN said

S. Statenents of fact: What GOLITSYN could contribute
in the fora of personal Knowledge, as against supposition,
is suunarized in the subpare;raphs below, Comnents on each
point are appended where appropriate. Several of these
points are of real assistance, but certain aspects of their
conteat or Presentation weakens their iapact or opens thea
aad the ssurce's accuracy to soe question,



i
fi
|
1
i
H

*

a. This man is the person he says he is,
y Ivanovich SOSLUO, the son of forser ‘linister
KO, and he really was a KGS officer

Yur
ROS)

Cc ent

(1) COLITSYS knows this because he says
he knew NOSENKO personally, havii this tuo
or three tines in II/1/1 in 1953 when GOLITSYN
\as there on other business. GOLITSYN also aet
NOSENXO occasionally at work in 1958-1959, In
1959, GOLITSYN asked NOSENKU where he worked,
and KO said in the Tourist Departacat.
GOLITSYX asked hia about CiiURANOV. In addition,

~NOSENKO and -GOLITSYN“know’one anothér indirectly
throuzsh their common friends CilURANOV, GUK,
KASIiEYEV, etc.

(2) NOSENKO, however, could not identify
the photo of GOLITSYN and, when told who it was,
repeated his carlier statements that he had
never net GOLITSYN and would of course renecber
YF he had. He had once been shown a group photo
of hin, (It is difficult to sce why NOSENKO
would lie about this, since we clearly could
check through GOLITSYN and a contrary statenent
would throw inaediate doubt on NOSENKO's bena
fides, and there would apparently be nothing for
Rim to lose merely adnitting it. This raises the
question of why GOLITSYN might lie about this
point, similarly not very easy to answer.) ’

b. NOSENKO served in II/1/1 from 1953 until 1957
or 1958, and was specifically responsible during the
period 1953-54 for Ancrican nilitary personnel in the
Embassy. In 1955-57-53 he may have had the sane
responsibilities, or may have been working against
other Embassy personnel or correspondents, but was
definitely in II/1/1.

Connents:

(1) _NOSENKO says he was in II/1/1, working
first against correspondents and then against
military personnel, from March 1953 until mid-1955,
and claias then to have transferred to the 7th

i
{
1

2 Ava CREAR



Tourist Departnent (11/7), where in 1959 he was a
senior case officer.’

Bley eerste

(Tourist) Departnent of the Second Chief
Directorate (It/7).

(2) In our own anclysis of NOSE:
story ( y report) we had expresse
that “OSE.
can Lcpirtment at all, siace he vas so vague
about details he should have knoun, since }
was suspiciously self-contra tory out when
he entered and what he did, and since his later
period in that Departrent (1960-62) is clearly
a complete Fabrication,

¢. NOSENKO served from 1957 or 1953 in the

Conments:

(1) As noted above, this contradicts
NOSENKO's story of having made this transfer
in mid-1955, thus creating a period of two to
three years which NOSENKO’s legend is trying
to cover up. This suggests to GOLITSYN that
there was some success in the Enbassy during
this period, which is supported by other ob-
servations (see below).

(2) There is reason to doubt the validity
of GOLITSYN's statement, since NOSENKO is in-
dependently known to have been involved in at
least one, and perhaps two, strictly tourist-
type operations involving U. S. citizens in the
period 1956-1958. One was Richard BURGI, whoa
NOSENKO recruited in June 1956 in the company of
Anatoliy KOZLOV, Chief of II/7, who has confirmed
NOSENKO's story and identified his picture,

There was possibly one other American, Gisella
Harris, in 1957 (she tentatively but uncertainly
identified his photo) and he claims to have worked
on three foreigners, one of whom, Sir Alan Lane,

British, has confirmed the story and recoznized



~svierevwee werppeetomaatre

(3) Supporting GULITS
however, are the following po

i's stateneat,
ints:

(a) DERI considers it q
possible that an ‘veri Separtcent nan
e used in a To2 Jepartient opera-
ion, if he had qualifications ng
others were
There is an
what happened hore.

{b) In the 1962 reetings

ated in the
1956 against U. S
Edvard Saith,
this carlier statene KO vigorously
denied it. His earlier clain could thus
have been a slip, or perhaps nerely a gratui-
tous boast (paralleling his 1962 clain to
have been involved in the October 1959
attempt against Russ Langelle).

(¢) SENKO has reported personal par-
ticipation ia only a few checkable tourist-
line activities during the years 1955-58
although his year 1959 is replete with then,
almost all confirned independently.

sy security. officer,

{d) The only other indepezdeatly known
activity of NOSENKO durinz this period was
two trips to England in August 1987 and
October 1958. These, he clains, were merely
to serve as watchdog for two Soviet sporting
groups (and to give hin some flavor of the
West). They could presuaably have taken hin
froa II/1l just as well as from Il/7.

d, NOSENKO did not work in II/1 at any time in
1969, and thercfore it is unthinkable that he was there
for the one year 1961 either.

Cowrnsents:

(1) This confirus our finding, es reported
in 11 “iny report.

(2) GOLITSYN claits to kaow this because he was

|



toe ares nen os toenaee ar scngaeemmeteee

re in detail of who served in TI/1/) until

s dzparture for July 1960, and
because he visited c Hi/l in Decenber
1960 and talked with the then he: of LI/l/tl,

Me would have known i SESKO wore
in the section then at all, much less as deputy
chier,

Hovever:

- NOSENKO vas away in Cuba until 13
Decenber 1960 and thus nay not have
been there at the tine. Nonetheless,
the fact that he had becoze Deputy
would presuszably have cone out of :
GOLITSYN"s talks with KOVSHUK, anyway. :

GOLITSYN had earlier said that PETROV
was chief of I1/1/1, GRYAZNOV the deputy.
Insofar as SR records show, GOLITSYN had
never named KOVSHUX in this position, as
far as we know, until he saw the NOSENKO
a materials, KOVSHUK was, of course, named
by GOLITSYN many times as an active case
officer in II/1/1.

e. Contrary to NOSENKO's statenent that GORBAT!
remained as chief of II/1 until 1959, GOLITSYN knew that
GORBATENKO was sent as senicr KGB advisor to Hungary
shortly after the Hungarian Revolution, probably about
January 1957,

Comnents:

(1) Since this is a high-powered job and
represented a pronotion, GOLITSYN thinks it may
well have been given to GORBATENXO as a result of
success in operations against the American Embassy,
specifically a recruitnent. GOLITSYN thinks NOSENAO '
may be covering this up by changing the dates of
GORSATENKO's transfer, and associates this with
KOVSHUK's trip to the U. S. in early 1957, pre-
xmably to follow up or complete a ‘loscow Embassy
recruitnent (about which trip NOSENKO also gave
apparent disinforaation, linking it to the PAXDREY"
case, thi so all agree is unlikely, especially
since left Moscow in the spring of 1954).

|
|
|
|



Cue ie

Since the
one GOLITS
his oun biowrs ght iadced
be a clue to an important penetration.

(2) auining U.S, Eabassy cepartees
fron Moscow durias 1956, and are preparin; a paper
presenting the cir stances of one possible
theory.

f, NOSENKO did, in fact, have the wonan trouble
he claims, but GOLITSYN "recalls" that this took place
in 1957 or 1958, not in 1954, and this was the reason
he was transferred out of the nore sensitive Aserican
Departaent to the Tourist Department.

Connent:

(1) GOLITSYN also said that the events
"must have happened" after NOSENKO became a CP
member (in 1955-57), sugg2sting COLITSYN is
not stating a fact but making a supposition,
It is not clear, in fact, whether GOLITSYN
knows or supposes that this caused NOSENKO's
transfer out of If/) into 11/7.

g. The post of Assistant Section Chief -- which
GOLITSYN says NO! claimed to occupy in 1960-62 --
was abolished in 1959, those holding this title being
made senior case officers.

Note: GOLITSYN is apparently confusing

ACH (Assistant to the Chief)
ZAMNACH (Deputy Chief).

NOSENKO also reported that Poanaches
were abolished and made senior case
officers, while Zannaches continue to
this day, GOLITSYN must also believe
this, since he hes reported GRYAZNOV
as Zaanach IL/1/l.

6. In addition to the opinions
connecte! rized above, GOLITSYN provided
a nunber of opinions, theories and suppositions on various
detailed aspects of this case. wy and large, these nerely
provile additional support for opinions already presented

eT



i
i

in our earlier reports on
without Joubt that NOSE
operation could only have
approval, and that & is &
various etrations, one

i and sone of then
se He considered
run in close coordination »
provocations, and that in
properly NO. OQ nust know
the KC3 is trying to hice
of what NOSENKO has said

than supposition, about wi

intelligence authorities.
dealt with in detail in
peated in the body of thi

Attachnents A and B

his operation. GULITSYN concluded
2 is a KGS provocateur, that the
been run with kr WSuCdl's personal
lesinned other things to hide
perhans re é to the POPOY con.
threatened s provided by
thet the KO operation is being
with the and CiHEREPANOV
order to carry out his mission
: many of the significant truths
or protect. He belicves that much
is k G3 knoxledge, rather
at i ed to western
Since ail of this isas already beea
ur carlier analysis, it-is not re-
s aenorandua.

chief, SR Divisy



. Questions for GOLIT

Ys based on 29

Interv

What is your opinion of the general wecaracy of th
has reported on KC ormanizatioa ang pe
(Aside fron ops and special incidents ceanected ciche provocation)

and the
2 2 Caside froa

Any contradictioa: between your pre
information he provided re who was
GORBATENKO's departure date)

In your opinion, vould the give ‘KO carte blanche to
tell. the truth re organization, persennel (including photo

idens) and procedures? ‘ould it fee! safe encazh to pernit
hin to nake najor lies on this, esp. lly
(such as Sluzhba, birectorate of Il, etc. j?

eral organization

What are the specific points you thiak
re personnel?

NOSENKO is lying about

You reported earlier that PETROV was chief of the Ist (Embassy)
Section of the Anericcn Departnent, and GRYAZNOV the deputy,
as of 1960. NOSENKO reports KOVSHUK had long been the chief,
PETROV never had been, and GRYAZNOV only becane deputy after
NOSENKO left in January 1962, ilow ¢o you explain NOSENKO's
statement?

What is your opinion about the general inforaation NOSENXO :

gave on Tourist Department ops, i. e., the totals he reported s
(about 37 tourist agency owners and ecployees, about 25 non-

American tourists recruited, and a few miscellaneous others), i

plus about 19 American tourists - practically all already 7
identified, known or useless - and 5 Azerican tourist company 7 2
personnel? :

Do you know anything about the relative success in recruiting
tourists praor to 1961? Any considered solid or important?

Did you have direct, earlier, knowledge of NOSENKO's career
and activity? Had you heard about his trouble with women,
the flaple reports as having occurred in 1954? (The trans-
cript leaves it unclear whether it was your belief that it
happened in 1957-53 or whether it was hard fact.) '

Could you provide cetails of the approxiaate date, location,
circuastances under which you net NOSE%XO cach tine?



tid you hear fre1 X68 personnel)
that NOSENE in 1953? Or is that rely
the first year you personally sav or heard about hin? [iad
you ever heard of hin before 1953?

Do you know for a fact (or

Did you ever hear anytaing about Nosenko's buckground other
than-his father, i. ¢., his GEJ service, schooling (especially
Institute of Foreign Relations), residences (including dacha),
neighbors?

Can you describe the Obzor you sai: on the POPOV case, par-
ticularly its format and length? (NISEXKO has described it
as hard-cardboard covered, only about five inches wide by
eight high, and about 20-25 pares leng.) Are all obzors
produced in this or other standard format?

You have reported that a KGB officer named KOTOV, formerly
in Yugoslav ops in Austria, suspected POPOY and was sent
in 1958 to Geraany on the Popoy’ investigation, We know of
no KOTOV in Vienna in the period concerned, Did you necan
Mikhail ZHUXOV? Another? Could you give us more details
on KOTOV, such as full naze, description, career?

Do you have any knowledge of direct contact between NOSFNKO
and PREISFREUND? YOSEXKO clains not only to have been a
case officer for PREISFREUND, but to have been his close
friend, even prior to the time you left Helsinki. Can you
connent?

What can you say about the selection of NOSENKO for the
trips to England in August 1957 and October 1958? Would
this be likely for Tourist or Ancrican Departnent officer?
How about the Cuba trip, 1960, and Bulgaria 19617

Why, in your opinion, might he have changed his "traveling"
nane froa Nikolayev, which he used in England trips, to
NOSENXO, which he used for Cuba trip and for application
for U. S, visa earlier in 1960?



wade Available to GOLITSYS listed in chronological

10.

ile
12.

13.

sin; to COLTISYs, with cates passed,

of first four substantive cables fron Geneva
n,; circumstances of his contact with us in June
including first meeting with {ARN and first
meeting with LAGLEY. (2 “tarch 1964)

Cop

ied

s of transcripts of all nectings between CIA and
O in 1962 (3 Harch 1964)

Copies of all transcripts of Geneva neetings, January-
February 1964. (All passed to GOLITSYS by 13 March 1964)

Report of biographic infornatioa provided prior to hostile
interrogation, (17 April 1964)

Final chronology, with our notations, of NOSENKO's life
and KGB career, prepared after hostile interrogation,
(Attachment A to Ll May 1964 report) (Passed 11 May 1964)

Copy of NOSENXO's handwritten notes and docuzents he
brought out with him in 1964, (Passed in mid-April)

Resune of first week's hostile interrogation,

NOSENKO's comments on KROTKCV's manuscript "Fear".
(Passed in mid-April)

Coaplete collection of photo identifications made by
NO. 0 to date, with explanatory note re aethod of
notation,

Questions re NOSENKO for GOLITSYN (passed in mid-April).
Special questions passed on 15 June and 22 June.

Cc

SEPANOV papers, (22 April 1964)

Information on American personnel naned in CHEREPANOV
pazers and otherwise of interest re Moscow Embassy
security (SINTERS, including his ops activity; BOWDEN;
LANGELLE; LIESER YAN; Edward SMIT. ASHENKO; Leonid GRAN).
4 Nay 1964,

sted be put to XN

List of questions nom: S
y info given by KROTKOV.

in order to confirm and clari



seer eeteenteeel ecole eee Pee Sane ne ne ata erimenermmn en mtn ee peas a nen eat ae A RR

14. Copies of two reports prepared oa KG3 audio technical
operations, one prepared ca basis of GOLITS
mation in 1902, another based on NUSENKO infor
1964,

15, XOZLOY case (ALFOSBICK) 4 “ay

16. Case s REDNIXOV AGAPONOV,
I2H50LDIN, OVC, YUTIN (4 and 11 ‘fay)
JUNG, PRIZYTROVA (15 June),

17, Transcripts and chronology with background sictch
on BSELITSKIY,

18, File sumaary on FEDOROV aka RAZIN. (11 May and 12 June)
19, Charts re NOSENKO CI production (leads). (11 Nay)
20, Chronologies on KOVSHUK, GUK, FOMIN and IVANOV. : i

21, Outline of information on K7B structure and personnel
assignments as reported by (11 May)

22, ARTAMONOV case. (November 1963)

23, PENKOVSKIY case. (November 1963)

24, POPOV case. (November 1963)

25, Answers ta special questions posed by GOLITSYN and asked

of NOSENKO in interrogations in May 1964, Total 113
pages; 211 questions answered and passed by 12 June.

wth att see

