# 104-10256-10022

## Page 1

104-10256-10022

REMARKS:

phe file in the

os file on Mitchell

Kiringston Werkell II,

#27.686."

---

## Page 2

14.0000

# 27-8.

SAG

13 July 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: MACKEM, Walter Josef (U/AIUO)

OS#190 639

1. (U/AIUO) On 8 Julv 19770)

the undersigned attended a

party at the home of

Mclean, Virginia.

15 July 1972.03Also in attendance was MALAN why came to the

party with

(OS#368 661); in addition to the

above, several other Agency employees were in attendance.

2.

(U/AIUO) MACKEM did not appear to engage any Agency

employees it

"shop" talk and seemed to shrink from any sort

of serious

conversations while in the proximity of the

undersigned.

Based upon casual conversations with several

of the undersigneg's friends at the party, it was learned

Twas invited to the party by Ms

roommate, 5ao.

worker with bothl

OS#677 012), who IS a co-

B Additionally,*I Mas

learned that

WilT temporarily reside with

Wtil

finds another apartment:

Aside from his ObvIoUS

Friendship with

7 MACKEN did not appear to have previ- --

ously known any of the Agency employees at the party.

3. (C) It should be noted that MACKEM has been of

interest to this Agency since his termination (reduction

in force) in October 1973.

Interest was predicated upon

his association with Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III (O5E

Y27 686) and the latter's "Friends of Abaca" operation•

Recent interest in MACKEM stemmed from the "B. A. Fox"

letter bomb extortion case in which MACKEM was considered

py the FBi to have been a possible suspect that case.

investigated by the FBI during the latter part of 197.

currently appears to have been put on "the back burner"

by the FBI.

CONFIDENTIAL

Michael E. Schneeberger

Security Analysis Group

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 007472

BIPU

---

