id OteeA028)

oe

tte s Hae gar
Caiet of Station, [2urt-we-7riz60) x
Clef of Station,(Fanana]
Catet, suziot 6-7

AQUATIC
Transmittal of Fhotograpaic Prints and segatives

Refer ace: (arva] 1534, 1 arch 1903

Trananitted as am attechmeat are 32 photographie prints and
the negatives obtained from the roll of Plus-I film forvarded by
Reference for processing and priating., As instructed im Befer-
ence, tvo additional copies of eech print wore aede and distri-
buted to the Hoedquarters Divisioss, Where duplicate negatives
sppeared ca the roll ealy the better mogative was printed.

SECRET

TaD/POR WAR (28, Mar)

wes 33 Mar kr,
ws bed

t ~~
i
i
Lowi 450 26/3/65, ccs
sod) ENTRIES OFLETPA ah


Vebrwasy 23, 1903

Monorable Kerve Boyer

Secretary of Stace For Finance
Pert eu Prince
Meset, uw. a.

eee Toe
Dear Dr. Boyer: fiat

Seema

E eertataly de want to closely investigate the
Sorest project and- the other itens George da Mobrenesniide bas
@tecusced with we. Ky prescat agents Tequices trips co dmariiio,

e Salt Leke and Midlend, but towarde the middis of March
T chould be able te fly to sate:

A. Trusting that the delay will
Wot be irritatiag, X will take the liberty of witiag you whee {
tmow the presise arrival date.

acer Loe ou i : ett

: 1,
Bef [Mevretd Bay yfeben ‘ Af yor got ley wre 7
Ay lertl, ARE tel ign Ayfeiel Comid

ve

“u & we
Aove reais
es.

bike a. As dtd f. al act be th aA jon,
fio a dander pe BG book tae Vy eh wien



Febrwary 23, 1903

Bonorssle Herve Royer
Geccotary of state For Finance
Pert eo Prisce

Bates, v. 2.

i
SEE TOM cece eae or,
Dear Br. Beyer: :
ft Jo really unfortunate thet commmications
were fouled up since I know many La Che grovp with ms could
Reve groatly besefited from an oe-the- ground visit with your

geod offices. Yee it te hard te imagine the ala-vp is communi
cation cad trenspertetion aalia en Grand Bahama last woo.

2 eertataly de wast te closely iavestigate the
forest project and the other. items. George de Mohrenechildt hes
Clocvesed vithas. My present agenda vaquires trips te dmariile,
Dewver, Soit Lane and Nidlend, but towards the alddle of Karen
B cheuld be able to fly to Maiti. resting chet the delay will
Qot be trritatiog, X vill take the Liberty ef wiring you when I
tmew Che presice arrival dete.

muy lithe ate At ign Aypetd vod
: nok bok of peu.
ies eke secclgiesh wih ONY oh.

or Cetus “gle
OT fa : : ;

|
| g id ft Ht
gage George de Mobrenschitde »
ee Bea, fon fons ft “Ahn phy ealage|
|

