f a
SECRET :

104-10308-10044 Hsssas SeeeeNacooot n. my
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: AMBRUSH Organization

Job # 63-345/6

File # 19-5-6
a Dated included: Apr 61 - Jan 62
Volumes: 1
1. Description: °
Revolutionary Council Anti-Castro Security and
Counter-Intelligence Team.
2, Findings:
No findings in relatimto the terms of reference.
Of possible interest: A document dated 19 August
1961 source: AMPAL-1, hand carried to Has. from WAVE
in August 1961. The document mentions "Cuban Communist

penetration agents in all branches of importance of the

U.S. Government" .., Mentions a possible "Castro

penetration into the Frente (FRD ~- Revolutionary
Democratic Front) and U.S. activities".

3. Other Agencies with Knowledge of this Activity:

Apparently, none,

4 Researcher

o2 /CDH comment: Check out Eugenio MARTINES again,
(SDIPSTREAM-1 said in 1976 that one Eugenio MARTINEZ was working
for the Cubans. A Eugenio MARTINEZ was involved in the Watergate;

a former JMWAVE Station agent.7

z|N


"phn 1 Pah VA

:
i] August 19/61. .
‘Snclosed find an approximate list of expenses that

xp

cave m for corsideration. However, he would like to talk it over

as to the rest of his stay in the U. Se

lenclosed a note he asked to have sent over,"Le Voz d

las Americas"(onds corta--h ort wave). This is supposed to be some
| sort of signal to his 0. P. G. group in Cuba to get behind end

| cooperate with information and sabotages--------~

Ly did mt ‘talk to him as yet since I am awaiting word fran you as t
this Monday's ‘meetings with him.-----

August 19/61
Jacinto Luzarraga, a friend from Cuba end former sugar mill otner,

and father-in-law of Lino Fernandez(MRR, now in jail at the Isle ~«
Pines), told me that Dr. 30th of Noviembr
Xovimiento) was, taken to jail after returning to Cuba from liad

Yast. time here ,. and not.es yet released. Jacinto arrived here wit

-his wife and-3 grandchildren about 5 days ago. He was formerly a

that pr received training in S/¥, his last trip here.-----

i

y

q 2

|| member of the famous old Cuban ABC group. It should be remombe:
;

|

H

i

i

August 19/61
Ben Volpe, now working at Holiday Tours, Biscayne Blvd., Miami, t:

me that -his father, having come from Guba a few days ago, told hi

that Federico Claramont, 1100 loth St., Miami Beach(living close

i
{ them), is a suspected mmber of Castro's G-2 and known as such si'
i

being in Cubae He arrived in the U. S., Miami, as a politicel ex

|| whach 4s a cover for his true mission here, and status.------

August 19/61
Jacinto Luzarraga end his relative told me that it is being rwaor

--{ that since only men are teken to Opa Locka by Immigration for 48

Fidel Gastro is sending in many G-2 women instead of men for his

' clendestine operations here, between here end Cuba. I also heard

rumored that some of these agents are sent to tie in with Communi
in the U. S., various regions of the U. S. I have no other info.

this as could not find out more since it was told to me as a rumc
i

4

|told me that ke gets information from his uncle

August_19/61

Guillermo Rojas, a long time Cuban Communist who 4s presently wor

in the Imprenta Nacional at Havana. He helped(supposed to be one
ee)



13-00000

“yo ~
D a

the moin) organize the library of the Communist throughout Cube
o His unclé told him that Kruschev promised Fidel Castro that he

have missles in Cuba(this was a few months ago). Also, his unc?

that the Russians have spies in the Pentagon that pull for Fide?

Castro, and they have already plenty of agents bel nging to the

Communists in all branches of importance of the U. S. Gov't.,— x

even inthe CIA. He said that all people in Cuba that worked vi
Ed eal =i peop =

the CIA were picked up through their agents md those presently

working with same are being watched closely. told me thi

IG
he is kind of suspicious of Eugenio, his being Cuban and because

a-sort of sixth sense, as he calls ite ra

August. 19/61 —
~Bart told me last week that Juez Garceran was the one that sent °

letter you” received to Carlos Prio as he recognized the handwrit
on both envelopes. The above judge 601d Bart that some have bee’
given Salvo. Conductos to Mexico and that the Italian Embassy is

emptying out some. This judge 1s the one that made the list of

people held up in the Italien Embassy, that you received fron Bay
|-Bert tola me that he thought that Alberto Del Junco(MD¢), that 1 -
in touch,with is getting aid from someone from tho U. Se Gov't. +

| Del Junco's sister saw him this past Friday night at his howe anc

gave him $5,000.00 in U. S. Dollars(money) to send through the Po
to Cuba to be given to her brother dorm there. She didn't want t
disclose to Bart where and from whom she received the money, and
soniy said that it was from his group(HDC) here. Bert thinks that
this is not true. Ee sent the money down slready.
~Enclosed(marked in pencil, #7) find photostatic copies of letters
sent to Oscar Diaz from former F.Castro Pres. Urrutia and fron a
Macaroni that Bart kno wse It is self explanatory in Spanish and
Bart says that he knows that the air strips shovm on enclosed mep
are truely in existence. Lart- received these photostatic copies +
to his suggesting same to Oscar Diaz upon delivery. I couldn't tr
this letter to you a few nights ago as he had to deliver some in
bour of the time I visited hime However, I suggested his trying t
stend by when the letter was openeds Oscar Diaz liked Part's ides

of smn. nd Bert asked for eo for bimke
making photostatic copies of, sme s me fey



Zz wee : “ 4
Cont'd. 3.
i

-@.

+ It seems that Captain Despain wants to break up the Intell.Sorv:
.of jthe Frente due to lack of funds, says Dr. F'dez. However, dv:

|
7
| having tried to find out whether this Captein Despain was Ernest
| we ere not sure. Having been introduced upon our 2nd- visit lar
: : Friday, 9:30 A. K.(first visit was 2 days previously at 9:50 A!
we were presented to. Ernesto Despain, the person we were lookine

ee some tine how(due to"his relations with Coferino Alvarez(G-2) en:

| Josefina Socarras(Ceferino's girl friend, of whom I have béen wri
| °. | |} ako ut for ome time now). We started to get placesywith all Ar
‘ cooperation,the first: time there as we spoke only to Dr. Fldez. -
oa. second time, with Despain present, we felt that we should not 50
many details. ‘Dr, F'dez. told us that Despain was planning on s-
seg him wth a delegation to Puerto Rico. I feel, as well as Frenk,

this Dr. F'dez.(around 60 yrs. old) is a person that could very «

organize his office to be of very valuable service against Castro

- his Communists here in the States, as well as in Latin America wh

"|| they already have their own agents operating. It is felt that De

is trying to get Dr. Fldez. out of the way because he recognizes *
dmportance of the plenned Intelligence Service the Frente , throu

|| F'deze, gam which could produce a very strong arm against Castro.

Dr. Fidez. says that they are now working on the ABC form as used

against a former president of Cuba known as Machado. Enclosed is

|
| |
\
|

| ‘en “4dea of how this group functions and are placed into many walks
life of importance to this causes. Their work is mainly of Inter
Gorvice and in a form of cooperating with the U.S.Gov't. in all we
possible witout trying to get monies, if possible, to function. 1:
presently trying to get donations to’ $300.00 to keep his office co
| for a month. Upstairs in the seme building, they have radio opero!

- |] (very wel experienced) continuously monitoring all phases of inpo
i | ance in Cuba(sugar mills, etc.). Frank asked Despain if the file °
had in his hands was for us. Despain was caught a little off bound:

as he became somewhat unnerved, but soon rallied and opened the fil

| the contents. I didn't went to press the point arousing ony suspic

Dr. Fideze introduced me as a Joe Anderson, FBI mane I had former]

| | showing data on boats, but taking great pains to keep us from secin
|
|

!
i


1

.. . D* ' an -
” 6 . a >

-did anyway. I let 1t go at thet to see the ‘developments as 1t 1
Ho ‘use to refute him again. However, when we parted, I ata nonti
him agein that he should not do so at rendom as I did not think 1
necessary nor what we had agreed upon. Dre Fldez. did say so es
initroduced us to Despain as his Jefe(chief) and wanted to show hi
loyalty at the same time explaining to him that he wes cooperatin
with us in all ways possible against Castro and Cora

uism, which
plainly seen that Despain didn't like at alle Despain sat silent
no questions asked, herd, eyeing us as if waiting to see how far

FBI had gotten into matters of the Frente. I did not ask the Dr.
questions I wanted to and only said that I would like to be in to
with him at all times. Enclosed you will find photostatic copies
letters sent by Cubans here to Prague and the answers of same, Y
told me to ask him how he got this information. Idid not feel tr
should have done so at the moment. However, Iwill be in touch +
Dr. Fideze again soon as I said I would. I will not go to the of
of this. Intell. again as I was almost seen by a Frank Paez, Pepe

Aguero's friend. Pepe Aguero is Paula Grau's husband, now here.

turned my head away, I think, in time. Dre Fdez. says that he hea

of more information to give me and that loads of stuff reaches hi:

| daily, all of which he can turn over to me for study. He said th

will get for me Cla files that the Frente has hidden and want to :

with him. I feel, if Despain, 1s out of the way, I could do much

Getting what is needed of them. Ido not feel safe with him arox

I may bé wrong, but that is the way I feel al ut security with h

I promised to return the enclosed photostatic copies tt feol tha

of: the files-can be taken over for copy for the asking, as Dr. F!

aid he would cooperate to the fullest.

Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez: Office(9 to 11 Asi.) :FR-1-5153

(—---—.  Home{from 8 Pelis to 8 Ca ie 1853
Frente(from 11:30 Aslie tol

FR=4~2650~56:
He holds a Frente Carnet No. 102, Frente Revolucionario Democratic

(P.R.De), Delegacion de: #1 Salvador(Rescate) and receives $200.06

monthly as a salery from the Frente.



13-00000

6

8 | auguot 19/62 : . De
ql Frmk Arias has given nz the following information (alee? aespae)
| . nr

ne ae :
Oo . Chythin(Lieugensnt, know formerly as) Ernesto Despain, head of +

yj 5
Frente Intelligence Soputce at SE van Lane, Mioai, witt

ontranc

in back of building at,15th Street, off Brickell Ave., worked for
with Ceferino Alvarez(G-2, Imown as) in Government Insurance(Segr:
| Gobierno) md formerly in the now non-existent BANSECO(branch of”
\ National Bank of Guba). Josefina Socarras worked with thom also :

|) Seguro del Gobierno . I have written of Josefina before through |

|| tinaings of Frank, who knew them all in Cuba(not Despain directly,
| only his femily). ‘This Captain Despein is an intimate friend of |
Ceferino and Josefina(planning to’ go ‘to New York soon). he has t

trying to get mmething started here, as reported before. It is

|| strongly urged thet this Josefina be surveilled constantly as I,

; as well as Frank, think that she is affiliated with Castro's cland
activities here in 6 States. She received monthly checks from +)
I centro Refugiado//Gap tain Despain is planning.on going to join t?
Io. S. Army. Ho is definitely strongly suspected of givirig everyth!
of Intelligence to Castro and is ‘tied in with the Cormunist end Co:

Groups heree He may even soon plan to disappear from the scene ‘and

|
|
_. *Pnowla not be allowed to get off easily. Ho has been keeping Drs
‘| Jose Julio Fernandez from organizing his anti-Castro and Anti-Coruxi
\ files due to lack of funds(says Despain). It seems thatrhis was jv
! an excuse before and was done to keep the ball functioning as.shoul
bg. -I think that this Dr. Jose - Julio Fernandez is very sincere an.
i is innocently giving everything into the hends of Despain without
knowing. How Despain got into this position is not Imown by us yet.
net a ee -

As far as we are concerned he is a Castro penetration into the Frent

i
lend U. S. activities.

EE ee Eee
ithe above is the, result of being sent to see Dr. Jose Julio Fornande

head of Intebligence Seryence of the Frente(as told us dy Foruor
Cuban Grl. Socallanes, friend of Frank}x I went with Frank to try

jand pictures. for Castro of allymilitary end naval installations in t

|
;
i
‘lfind out ato ut a woman whose Aggtone of two of them) had taken date
|
[State of Florida.

q

\

vuuvLuuwE sun ByAINst "PéLerriny Lome "Ye “angtning specani, wien ne


. . ' 4 4 o .
€ont'd.8---+ Enclosed find the groups belonging to the Frente that was writte
for me by this Dr. Fldeze

+ | enchosea find(#8 marked)"Roporte and Informe"(2 sheets) Given me

Dr. Fldez. to. show what they are doing now.

i Dr. Didez. informed me of the following:

(a)e A Communist militant; Alberto Iglesias, 425 Cedar Lane,

Meadow, New York(Phones:1V-1-4368 end IV-G-4547). He is

Resident of. the U. S. for more than 20 years. -He has his

business,"American Welding and Boiler rks Coo". This i

i man to be watched as he even uses his business as a front
(>). Mario Garcia, liiami Ventilated Awning 0o., Inc. (works ‘at):
! "presently asking .Iumigration permission to go to Cuba end
: y considered’as one of Fidel Castro's heads here. with a sre:
ee . 4 many tiese

-Eficlosed find a break down of expenses of the Frente Intell. Offi

given me by Dr. Fldez., my asking him for same. Frank fries is

helping the Dr. get funds for the msintenace of this office for
least another month. -I think that this set up should be taken 1”

a. August 21/61 ;

. Enclosed find marked: #9, 2 documents, given me by Emanuel Carvaje
last ‘night which are self-explanatory in Spanigh. One is a list
exiles in their Coste Rican Embassy in Havam, end the other is ¢
Gocument(copy) signed and given today to the Minister of Foreim
Relations of Cuba in Havana. It secms that there was very much
discussions concerning sane ariongst the foreign diplomats in Cuba
The Egyptian Embassador(RAUsSyria, etc.) went to the first meetin
the diplomats had in Habana concerning the new monetary exchonges
He first agreed strongly with the rest and promised to sign the
enclosed type document concerning the new $ exchange in Cuba.
first meeting was held last Monday, Aug.13th, end they met again /

‘@ second time on Thurdday in order to signe He(name not Imowm b:
Carvajal) then refused to sign and did not even show up which ind:

ted to the remeinder of the diplomats that his money must have ber

; exchanged in the full anount to keep him off the list of sigature
i The Swiss Charge D'Affairs informed at the same meoting, to the

"|| pipiomats, that he received information from his Government that t
i Swiss Gov't. was checking all present’ Cuban bank accountants exist
; in Switzerland and vere readying themselves to act accordingly in
| : case the Cuban Gov't. should not reach any agreement in regards to
|

the ‘exchange with the Diplomats.



13-00000

dA

ue Oo EY ~

‘A ~

Enbassador said he informed his Gov't. ebout these
diffioulties as a protest against the behavior of the Cuben Cov!
“iis he told.at the Diplomatic meeting. ;

“About & week ago, there was a hunger strike at the Brazilian Sut
by the exiles there. However, they gave up as a gesture to onlr

obedience to the Embassador. ‘They protested against not

salvo conductos and other things.

- This caning week, Kondey or Tuesday, the Diplomats again are co
together at a meeting to protest before the Cuban Gov't. about ©
lax end puxpossfukk desiming ways of handling this affair, and
remind the Gov't. of their obligations in extending the courtesy

according International agreements. >

jm Carvajal asked me not to mention this, but later said that he

informed us about Bubassador Quiros leaving Havena this Thursday
.as he was being recalled by the Costa: Rican Gov't. for onsultati
Carvajal will be in charge of the Bubassy for the time, tut seid
he dtan't expect the Embassador to return as he is taking his fa:
and house hold items. .

He plso told mo agein that Eduardo Odio, Costa Rican Consul tn
Havana, was a person not’ to be trusted ‘by many experiences thoy
already had with him. .
= de eT qe etvew epic Pos!
4 oe Calle Lor perekr Sige
fa EAreac0 Cady Theeueh wigheap ay laenT” Fy
Helge! Ke (PCD Kha waser Perse Po tee
ME CE Seimes

: TD have pty Cy ran”

saeco gern tind to emt Me fu”

