# 104-10175-10144

## Page 1

104-10175-10144

DISPATCH

Chief, HiM Division

SECRET

WIPES FOR #COME

DO RESIS PEOUTED

DI DALEE C

CAS SOC NOCINA

Chief of Station. Mexico City

A Agent Evaluation - LIHUFF/I of LItilFF Project

ACTIN NEGUANED - KET UPERCE

Attached

are copies of

an Agent Evaluation written

by willard C. CURTIS on LIHUFF/l of the LIHUFF Project.

2. This is forwarded for Headquarters information and

records.

tillardout

lard C. CURTI

Attachment:

Agent Evaluation (3 cys)

Distributio wate

CRESS REFERENCE TA

Frisse:

1 = 9.00917

3 COPY

AR)

HMMA - 32378

OLASECATIN

BECRET

201-807973

DATE

29 August 1967

HOS FILE MANNER

20130999323

---

## Page 2

14-00009

SECRET

AGENT EVALUATION

24 August 1967

1. Name (P): LIHUFF/1

2. Project : LIHUFF

3. Overt Job Title: Manager of Large Association.

4. Covert Job Title: Contract Agent.

Job Description:

LIHUFF/1 is a contract agent who is

in touch with and reports on a righting student

organization and its activities.

He also reports

on a Mexican organization which sponsors the

publication of a right wing economics (monthly!

journal: he has contact with a sub-agent (LICHANT/T)

'= i: emalayed by both the Ministry

of Education

and

the Mexican social security

1=ue3.

addition, he is able by virtue of his overt

employment, to ge: Dun and Bradstreet credit and

other checks on

firms. •Americar

Mexican and others.

He is in contact with other

right wing organizations

and individuals ail has

13od cartacts with Catholic Church authorities

іл Мехісо

6. Evaluation:

a.

Performance of Above Duties without Prejudice to

Either One.

is no real conflict of Interest with regard

to LIHUFF/I's work michero employment gives him

works only part-

time for NOFACT; his overt

excellent cover for the work he does for Hofact.

Attitude towards WOFACT, Cover Organization and

Present Assignment.

LIHUFF/ is a great admirer of WOFACT.

anxlous to do any assignment given him; he is

grateful for the extra

income (although small)

which the WOFACT job gives him.

He is very

pleased with his present

assignment, loves working

for his cover organization.

Security and Discretion.

HUFF/l has had years of work of

the WOFACT

i did the same type of work during World

under unofficial cover and in contract status

16-i an Panamasand in Mexico.

conscious

and discreet about his association

He Is very securitylich

WOFACT and about his work with this organization.

SECRET

Es COPY

HARBIA 3267K

123

201-809983

ETRy

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

SECRET

- 2-

do Handling.

LIHUFF/l has presented no problems to the station.

He accepts quidance and instructions. Is anxious to

do whatever is asked of him.

He takes about one

hour weekly to handle.

There have been no excessive

administrative demands generated by this agent.

€.

Report Writing.

LIHUFF/ generally submits reports which he has

acquired from either LIHUFFI2 or LICHANT: or,

ne writes brief memoranda on data he believes of

le rakes copies of the Dun & Bradstreet

reports or similar ones he delivers to the station.

His reporting is good, thorough, but brief and to

the point.

f. Personal Attributes.

LIHUFF/ speaks fluent Spanish, having been born

by, Mexies.

Mexican Businessmen; and he gets alo his WOFACT

His family slays no role in

activities.

Performance in His Specific Job.

LIHUFF /1 performs well in his specific job.

He

gives the Station

no problems.

either administra

tively or otherwise.

His performance could be

rated

as Strong.

ho Noteworthy Weaknesses.

This agent has no noteworthy weaknesses.

In view

of his experience and maturity, he is able to

perform very

nell without too much time spent by

his case officer on specific guidance.

Career Developmental Possibilities.

This agent could adjust well in any Spanish.

speaking country.

ja Comments Not Covered by Above Headings. None.

Signature of Rating Officer

killard -Curt

ard .. CURT

Signature of Reviewing Officer

licean Curtis

SECRET

(IRT

---

