# 104-10185-10097

## Page 1

104-10185-10097

COUNTRY

•SL'SUSCT

DATS OF

INFO

Paca gis

DATE ACO

SOURCS

so tirina bis dilati

SaCRST

NO FORT DISSEM

Cuba

REPORT NO.

: Armardo (patronymic uncrown)

DATE DISTR

NO: PAGES

REFERENCES

CS cf-316/00718-63

9 September 1964

RETURNTO CIA

Background Uce Only

Do Not Reproduce

: 1964

Washingrorg

D.C.

Sentember 1964

FIELD REPORT. NO

UNSVAIUATEO

INFORMATION.

A former Cuban IS office. who served with the Cabar Intelligence

Service uatii April 196%

Headquarters Commerts

The following report is oze of a series containing personality

Information provided by one source ard includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is recuested that the addressees take no action on any of the

Incividuals mentioned in the personality reports washout first

checking with this Agercy.

1.

Armardo (entronymic unknown), pseudonym "Frances,

wor's at ine suecial school of the Direccion Genera de nichigare

(General Directorate o. Intelligence - DGI) where guerrilla warfare

training is given foreigress; he is in charge of classes in

explusives.

armando is a captain in the rebel army. He was

an aide to Raul CASTRO and fought with his group ia the

mourtains.

2.

Source described Arniando as a Cuban citizen who was

born abou: 1929.

He is about five feet sever.or eight inches sa",

155 pounds, and has a mesium build. He has a fair complexior,

black, short, hair, slightly bald in front, small eyes, a hawk

uase, and a dea, 4ao,o, 7,8,9,58, fyays wears an army.

uniorm®

2

STATE

1 DIA

! ARM.Y

I NAME

SEP CNCLAI

Noia: Fialá dutribusion indiaiod by "=*g

D1,303

INS, SA/CI

RID/AN

TOTALS

1079 50

37'S: 7(0).

1312). CIA. RD !

AREDLITE PREVINUS DINOSS.

1640-7-6 1965

SECRET

NO FORY DISSEM

N'SA

MAd сда Ae

CDCSO E

1-20

I&YS

TFBI 2

were weeden

2

LX-1658

-1O PROJECT AS-0-1;

-CSCI-316.00712.03

SOSADIRATINE:?

L1A150N8

301-253699

3/01

---

## Page 2

2

5°

6

NO FORERUNEDISSI

searco Contronyale

now is probatis

Pies who 3s bolter

main basts for

CASTRO and 1t would seoneun

the wont

sech

Cides wich such startar nanose MispsAs

zhc

ost

to lowne traces thor backerounds appear no bottare

instances:

suary 40029 source ne report dated e septembon at

acton Estudio

arcitartt(Undvers1tyeStudentuyrederat.on

Un versityr

ross to obtain ald in che campalia eralast the scurtio

A tally re able source an a report dated 40441048ed ha

Armando Tors vas one of the persons porsonally contactedby

Iss111: BOGar REV and Ivan MiS liSs nitesard to the establ lahgen

of a Commor

A fairly reliable source, in a report cated a Joy 1913b Ident YIted

Arando TorRes as a Cuban: pro-Cormunist delesate, to the Lattor

Co 220 representative to the Coastess.

da untested source in a report dated 9 July 1958, sald that Armando

TORRES;

also referrod to as "Bullalo Bill," Clained he was Cuban

born, but had studced in Spain and France.

In a repost dated 1l July 1958, an unknown source listed the most

important peogle surrounding Raul CASTRO: Included was lt. Armando

TORa, an side to CASTRO, and described as having been born in

Carrsuey, studied In Paris, traveled to Spain and called "The

Frenchman:

In this sane report an untested source said that

¿mando TarRE, ala: "Bufialo Bill,.

• was born In Habana about 1926,

ras flve feet six inches tall, 110 pounds had black hair and an

complexion

Two usually reliable sources, in a report dated 3 and 10 July 195S;

described armando TORRES, an aide to Raul CASTRO, as a suspected

Cornunist so had returned Cuba fron Spain and Hungary ten months

before.. TORPES was identified as one of the persons responsible

for the rebel decision to abduct American citizens in June 1953.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEL

---

## Page 3

Jan in Caragues

about 1522 mid to studded an 25r-s/2c01d binülb2:

to had interviered the ex-costa Rican Prestons, Jose FiGurES

Connaig 1n1 1950.

That followns the hunstrics nerstucion tortes):

vero to Vichna to aid sungarian refusers cho caspeestasoly cacored

Muniord Where

seventeen hours" before returning to

130563.

the roport was dased 14 July 195s

Tauntestod sourco with escellent concic

1= SCROTE

caled 3 July 1959,

Stated that Cocais armando TORRES

tas thy. Cuban military Altacte to Hait,

10a untested source, in a report dated 3 Nay 1980, sala chat Acriaco

ans, Cuban Anbassador, arrived in Nose on 20 April 1980 and

for New Yosk on 20 April 1060 sla Pah Bertesa dirtines

Te ccords of this Agency ravealed a copy of a passportitor

Captata Armando TornE desones issued Just bant on Sateria 1960,

rich the destenacion, Dabajador Art corditardo:

17so Included

no Cuban Revoluttonary identification Card for Araando TORRES

resonos showing de held the for pr captain in ise Darescion

Insellroncia cos and that he was bord da Craguer, Cuba, on :

september 1930, TORRES vas in Rose on an ares buying mision

12, 1a revor dated 20 40 22060 1015 Tele ve the

follogig Intorarion do!

He was born in 1931,

is- carried and has oze child

ard his wife are. Forch Samosals. TONES is a good friend

O Vilna Espis and Raus CAStRo and always lives very

close

to: the lictor.

He is five feet ten inches all, weighs

between 115 and 150 pounds, has greenise broug eyes, black nais

a c:in face and 1s white.

He was in the Sierrs laestra with:

Saul CAsTro.

TORRES speaks French, English, Italian, Germar,

Jamaican, Russtan, and Portuguese.

His speciality is ciphers

ind translatzons and he has been an assessor of 21l the

dozartments of G-2:

In G-2 he

is

in charge of iraining

military

attaches.

TOniEs, who is adventurous and brave, is

100% Communist.

'S E. C.R.E T

NO FOREIGN DISSE

4. 1, 2:290.

---

