# 104-10256-10370

## Page 1

104-10256-10370

ROBE VT

C. BROWN

JAITE

ЕЖТ*

RATES.

WH/ 2/ES&HOND

7163

25 OCTOBER 1968

CAILE SECRETARLAT DISSEMIMATION

28

PER

-I-

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECREIZE

INITIALS - SEEN BY

6SD

INDEX

DESTROY

RETURN TO.

BRANCH

FILE RID

_ NO INDEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CONF:

WH8

• INFO:

RID COPY

FILE

. VR

Pi/AN, WH/C0G8, OU

(classification)

COPS, FId

, 50000 i

(olito)

(referenco nun bor)

SECRET

?520: 17200168

CITE DIRECTOR

4382

1710

TO

Г

GUATEMALA CITY

INFO TEGUCIGALPA

MEXICO GITY JACOBRA SCI

20408

REF : MEXICO CITY 7793: (BEING RELAYED TEGUCIGALPA)

1. REUTERS REPORT OF 25 OCTOBER FROM BELIZE SAYS*

POLICE HOLDING IS AMERICANS WHO SET UP ARMED CAMP ON JINX MI

Burton

ISLAND OF SHAG BOQUE CAY SOUTHEAST OF BELIZE.

CAPTAIN

ALONZO CAMPOS ESCALANTE OF MEXICAN FISHING BOAT AMIGO'

TOLD POLICE BOAT HAD BEEN HIJACKED BY AMERICANS..

THEY

ORDERED BOAT TO HEAD FOR BRITISH HONDURAN WATERS WHERE

RENDEZVOUS WITH ANOTHER BOAT WAS PLANNED._. NAMES OF FIVE OF

13 AMERICANS ARE CHARLES ORR CONNELL AGE 30, ROBERT CURTIS

AGE 31 OF POMPANO BEACH FLORIDA, HERBERT JOHN FENDERN AGE:

26 OF VERO BEACH FLORIDA, FRANK BONELLI AGE 44 AND MAX-

GORMAN BOTH FROM MIAMI. POLICE CONFISCATED RIFLES, CARBINES

AMMO AND ANTI-COMMIE LITERATURE.

2. NAME OF SECOND BOAT NOT PROVIDED.

3. INDEX FIVE AMERICANS WHO PLANNED SET UP BASE FOR

OPS AGAINST CUBA. FILE 108-120-11

RELEASING OFFICER

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP.

Exclunded from aromati

deviagrading

dostessifiçatia

REPROD JCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

COPY NC

---

## Page 2

•ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

16:

1T:

ATE:

LE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

200F:

(classification)

SECRET

RID COPY

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

80

J INDEX

DESTROY

RETURN TO.

BRANCH

] NO INDEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

INFO:

FILE

. Ve

(date and time filed)

CITE DIRECTOR

PAGE TWO

WH Comment:

Ref describes theft of "El Amigo" and involvement

of Wax GORMAN, Robert F. CURTIS and others wholet

planning set up base for ops against Cuba and

to go to Guatemala and clean out anti-Guate

guerrillas.

L

FILE RID

(elite)"

(reference numbor)

(pico)

500237

Celim M. Suptte

JOHN R

HORTON

for

AC/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

WH/2/G

(telecoord)

WH/1 BR. Harrington (telecoord)

Мілінй

EDWIN M.

TERREDE

•C/WH/2

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OF.

Ericluded from

dongrading

declazaltloatlan

IS PROHIBITED,

AUTE-ENTICATING

- OFFICER

COPY NO.

---

