# 104-10161-10353

## Page 1

• 104-10161-10353

Unice Memoriaurn • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

For the Record

DATE: 12 October 1961

FROM : Chief, Cover Support Desk

SUBJECT:

RODRIGUEZ, End 110 Americo

#214 442

1. On 11 October 1961 MI. Jeremiah Mullane, Sa 4 Security, con-.

tacted me regarding the proposed use of the Subject in Building 725

under the n0n-Official, IMWAVE cover. According to Mullans, the Subject

was to be used as a spotter and recruiter. He is a Type A contract

employee•

2. After review of Subject's covert file and discussing the matter

with the IRD operator who recently polygraphed the Subject, I advised

Mullane that It would appear to be undestrable at this time to use

the Subject In the capacity indicated in view of the fact that while

the Subject was Principle Agent in Cuba lin approdimately 1960, It was

ascertained that

24

DDS/IOS

of Information to the contrary, 1t would appear that the Subject's

assignment and use under JWAVE cover would be an warranted risk.

I suggested that the Subject might be able to conduct his duties

outside of the Building and that such an arrangement would be nore

secure, le. In the event that he recruited an individual who turned

sour, he would not be linked with JMWAVE. I referred Mullane to -

IRD for further discussions with the polygraph operator concerned.

I plan to take no. further action on this matter in the absence of an

official request for his conversion and/or assigment to JMWAvE.

-OS

:=5

1/201

KUHNKE/ m.J1

12 October 1961

CLOSED

23

=5450

Giel Dea

"?.'

2(1)

---

