# 104-10106-10092

## Page 1

104-10106-10092

TENTE ISSIFIEU

ONEYES ONLYO

ROUTING AND RECORD 3M66

Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko.

(Payment of Certain Funds

Previausty Promised)

EXTENSION

NO.

CON SPENTIAL

SaCRET

FROM:

Sidney D. Stembridge

Acting Director of Security

TO: /Orficie designation, roum number, and

DATE

buildingi

DATE

6777

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

1/6

COMMENTS (enter bach commeni in sinon iron inor

do ioñom. Drom a lina gerosi coiumo aller unen comment.)

RECSIVED

FORWSiDë0

1.

Chiet,

• CI/R & A

2 B: 1405

2.

4

¡37õ

3.

SIA, 1975

DDO

7:8:25

3.

DDA

D- 26

12 MAR 1976

ó.

7.

ANCI

7 D 5607

.

200693

10.

D0/A51

12.

13.

14

15.

From Ceneral Counsel to General

Walters:

We have reviewed this case in

considerable detail. Technically,

the release signed by Nosenko

could be asserted. In fact, however

on the basis of the recore, it appear:

he is due this tinal payment and we

see no problem in your approving

it.

Strin

John S. Warner

Generai Counsei

ler in 3ts

"spallach,

2io

04.30

1 S3039T

E COMPIDENTAL

NC.45517180

VS3

---

## Page 2

22227 WILL CHECK GLAS

TOSSED L

ATION TOE ARE BOTTOM

-1 CURDENTAL 1.

OFFICIA ROUTING STUP

NAME ANO ADDRESS

DATE:

1N: 706:5

5

6

N27121

СЭММЕНТ

CONCURZENCE

Remicks:

DIREST 23211

DiSPATCH

FIlS

IFOBYATON

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Plasmo bar Suma Jer

i give,

Please it le Filen

19004

021 40. 921

FOLD HEPE TO RETURN TO GENDER

2R22: 2425. ADORESS AND PHONE:

4120

L:: reviens adition.

1 C212L22M2TAT

Ke e

DALE

32CADF

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 3

EXES ONLY

1hl. i9r6

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM

VIA

SUBJECT

Director

Sidney D.

Stembridge

Acting Director of Security

Deputy Director

for Operations

Deputy Director for Administration

Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko

(Payment of Certain Funds

Previously Promised)

1. This memorandum submits a proposal for your approval.

The proposal is to immediately. pay Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko:

$28,500 in back salary in settlement of an Agency commitment

to him and to authorize a subsequent one-time payment of $10,000.

to him directly or as a contribution to his retirement for

identifying a ranking British official, William Vassall, as &

recruited Soviet agent.

2.

Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko is a 48-year-old former

Soviet intelligence officer who is currently employed as an

independent contractor by this Agency.

some time been of the opinion that he is entitled to $28,500

in back pay. This amount represents the difference between

the salary actually paid to him during the 1 March 1969 to

1 March 1975 period and the $25,000 per year which was promised

to hin at the time of his defection in February 1954.

time of his defection, Mr.

Nosenko vas also promised the adui-

¿ional

410,000 for identifying

William Vassall, & British

Admiralty employee recruited by the KGB.

3.

While serving as

4 KGB security officer with the

soviet Disarmanent Commission in Switzerland, ar. vosenko

contacted

in American diplomat in Genova or !

June 1962 and

requested

à Smail loan to ropay ofricial Soviet fonds which

he had squandered. Based on this contact Mi. Anarako was

recruited shottly thereafter by the Agency and in agreed to

L? IMPDET

C!, BŸ 010240

---

## Page 4

EYES ONLY

work as an agent in place.

On 15 June 1962 Mr. Nosenko

returned to

the Soviet Union where he

resumed his duties as

an intelligence officer with the Second Chief Directorate of

the KGB in Moscow.

Mr. Nosenko worked in place in the Soviet

Union until January 1964 when he returned to Switzerland.

that time Mr. Nosenko decided to defoct and requested political

asylum in the United States.

4. Mr. Nosenko defected in Switzerland on 4 February

1954 and was brought to the United States under Public Law 110

on 11 February 1964. At the time of his defection, certain

financial commitments were made to Mr. Nosenko. These

commit-

ments were substantiated in a conversation with him on

7 February 1964 and were documented in a 10 February 1964

memorandum to the Acting Deputy Director for Plans from

Nr. David E. Murphy, Chief, Soviet Russia Division (SR Division).

This

memorandum stated as follows:

1o, eting repeat

"First,

I assured Subject [Mr. Nosenko] that I.

was satisfied that he was genuine.

Based on

this and assuming his continued 'cooperation'

I said we would proceed to make arrangements

to bring him to the States.

Second, I con-

firmed our agreement to pay him $25,000 for

each year in place ($50,000) plus $10,000 for

his part in the Vassall

case and our readiness

to contract for his services at $25,000 per

year.

Third, I explained the polygraph he

would be expected

to take as final proof of

his bona fides."

5.

Shortly after his arrival in the United States,

the

SR Division encountered serious difficulties in attempting to

establish the bona fides of Mr. Nosenko.

The SR Division cou-

cluded

• that

Mr. Nosenko was not what he claimed to be and thus

was not a bona fide defector.

As noted

in

paragraph. four of

Attachment A, Mr.

Nosenko was held under highly secure conditions

at. an Agency

installation from April 1964 until October 1967.

In October 1967 the primary responsihilicy for Mr. Nosenko was

transferred from SR Division to the Office of Security, which

conducted a thorough review of the developments in this case.

The conditions of confinement of Mr. Noseako were progressively

riaxed

and in Actobor 1968

the bona fides of Mr. Nosenko were

seablished by the Office of Security.

At this point

it stould

in noted that the confinement of Mr. Nounko was cited by tha

SPOUST

?::.

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

EYES ONLY

noon ten me

Rockefeller Commission Report in June 1975 and that Mr. Nosenko

is aware of this citation.

Mr. Nosenko has, however,

made no

threats concerning possible damages as a result of this con-

finement.

Also, despite the difficult period through which

Mr. Nosenko passed,

he has been and continues to be a coop-

erativo and productive source.

6. Mr. Nosenko has been of significant value to this

Agency as a source of information on KGB Second Chief

Directorate activities against U.S. Embassy versonnel

in

Noscow.

Mr. Nosenko named six members of the Embassy staff

who rejected KGB recruitment overtures during the 1953-1964

period, and all have confirmed his assertion.

A physical

search of the Embassy in Moscow also fully substantiated

information Mr. Nosenko provided regarding KGB audio surveil-

lance devices in the Embassy.

information leading to the identification of fifty-one American

KGB targets and sixty-one non-American KGB agents. The most

Nose in enter i preside American

prominent of these Soviet agents were a

ambassador to Moscow, a director and a deputy secretary ve tue

Foreign Ministry and a British Admiralty employee

MIlam Vassali. Mr. Nosenko is the most significant defector

we have had from the

Second. Chief Directorate of the KGB;

as a result of this his contributions have been of unique

importance.

7. Prior to 1 March 1969 Mr. Nosenko received no salary

for his cooperation with this Agency.

Effective 1 March 1969

Mr. Nosenko was employed as an independent contractor at the

rate of $16, 500 per year.

Because of the previous difficulties

and uncertainties involved in establishing the bona fides of

Mr -

Nosenko, the extent of our commitments and obligations to

him were

not clear at that time.

not initially employed at the rate of $25,000

Nr. Nosenlo, therefores Nas

per year as

had bech promised.

Mr. Nosenko's salary was increased annually,

however,

until 1 March

1975 when he began to receive the stipu-

lated $25,000 per year.

Once the bona

fides of Mr. Nosenko vere

Firuly ostablished and the

earlier difficulties regarding his

statt: wore resolved, the initial commitments took effect and

the payment of $125,000 (less federal income tax) was completed

"orenber 1972 in settlement of salary arroars for the

period April 1964 to March 1969 (see Attachrent B).

On 12 July

1975 a final payment was made on the obligation

of $50,000 due

Mr. Nosenko for the period

• 1962-1964.

3

2/BR

---

## Page 6

5053T

EYES ONLY

There remains to be paid $28,500 (less federal income

tax) in salary arrears for the period 1 March 1969

1975 (see Attachment C) and $10,000 outstanding for the Vassall

case. (He has never requested the latter amount but the

obligation still exists.) Although Mr. Nosenko signed a

quitclaim for the period prior to 12 July 1973 (see Attachment D)

and may have legally waived his right to

back salary prior to

that date, the earlier payment of $125,000 for the period

1964-

1969 recognized our commitment to Mr. Nosenko to honor all:

agreements and established a precedent for paying him the total

salary difference.

We also believe that we have a moral obli-

gation and that this obligation should be met.

9.

This matter is being brought to your attention siuce

Mr. Nosenko believes he has

a.

valid clain to cited back salary

for the 1969-1975 period and

in connoction with the current

transfer of full responsibility for Mr. Nosenko to the Counter-

intelligence Staff, Directorate of Operations.

It is, therefore,

recommended that you approve the expenditure of $28,500 in full

payment of back salary for Mr. Nosenko for the period 1969-1975.

Of the $28,500, $27,667 can be paid for out of the FY1974 unobli

gated balance allotied to the Office of Security, with the

remainder of $833 being charged to the Office of

Security. FY1975

allocation.

10.

It is further requested

that approval be granted for

the $10,000 Vassall obligation, which could be paid directly to

Mr. Nosenko at a lator date or

preferably could be incorporated

into a retirement program for him, which is being given consid-

cration by the Counterintelligence

Staft.. lf approved,.those

transactions would represent a fulfillment of all commitments to

Mir. Nosenko as of this date and would sorve to fulfill outstanding

Agency commitments to Mr.

Nosenko privi to his transfer to the

Counterintelligence Staff.

Attachments

020LT

4

---

## Page 7

ATTACHMENT B

---

## Page 8

EYES CHLY

Exactire Regists

22-5%58

Б ОСТ 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Irtelligence

THROUGH

SUBJECT

•: Executive Direcior-Coraptroller

: Retroactive Reimbursement of

Juriy Ivanovich Nosenko

1. This memorandum suggests action on the part of the

Director of Central Intelligence; this action is contained in

paragraph 2.

2. MI. Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko, a 45-year-old, foriaer

Staff Officer of the Committee for State Security (KGB) of the

USSR, attended the Institute of International Relatiors, Mo:cow,

from 1915 to 1950; was affiliated with Russian Naval Intelligence

during the 195i-1953 period; and was an officer with the KGB

from March 1953 until his defection in the Agency in Geners,

Switzerland, or 4 February 1964, aiter having worked for Oil

for approximately two years.

3. A revier: of Mi. Nosenko's case reflects that, aù the

time of his defection, various official commitments were made

to him, incluling a lump sun payment of $50, 000.00 based upor

his nearly two years' work inside the KCS; a $10, 100. 00 Lonus

for his work on the Vassai case; and a cuttract no a consultant

at a ariary of 92?, 000. 00 per manum, die, Mnarase tea advis:

Ly his agency Case Oficer Mei Mi. Mortico s is wraking fo:

the Contrel Intelligenre Agracy es off Haruary Lit 1rl dia:

his salary began from die: 11c.

This was a vator acerasat

with the Agency Orso Ofaces, sud i muly that one tri

files

CiN2BET 37

.C0094a

HE CHAi! 01610619118188

32H13 :

WARMING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTFELIDGNCE SOURCES

AND METHODS WIDEVED

SISS ONLY

NECRET

Mind 12011636-10: d6

Des: Impossibie EP torcing

(ales 12301049. 498-18 =999 0: 0029!9

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

---

## Page 9

5155. 1993

30006-1

---

## Page 10

CIES OLY

4. In the early debriefing of Mi. Nosenio, it became

apparent that he was a particularly complex individual. To permit

extensive and prolonged debriefing, arrangements were made to

accommodate MI. Nosenko under highly secure conditions at

ISOLATION, where he remained from 1964 to 1967. These tight

secuilty arrangements were dictated,. during the initial phases at

least, by the additional need to provide Mr. Nosenko with

continuing personal protection, since there was the distinct

possibiity that he would be targeted for execution if the Soviets

should discover his whereabouts.

5. Since October 1967, the primary responsibility for Mr.

Nosenko has been in the Office of Security, which conducted a

thorough review of prior developments in the case. Mr. Noserko

was moved to the Washington, D. C. area in late 1967, and the

case passed through various stages of phased normalization, as

he was given an increased degree of freedom and independence.

MI. Nosenko was actually resettled on the economy in April 1969;

he obtained a divorce from his former Soviet spouse in Septeinber

1969; and he later married an American girl in October 1969,

During the period from October 1967 to April 1969, Mr. Nosenko

dic not receive a salary, but he was provided with a moderate

amount of spending money.

6. As of April 1969, Mr. Nosenko signed a one-yeai

contractual agreement for $16, 500.00, including a clause giving

assisiance to him in resettlement expenses in the amount.of

58, 000,00. In March 1970, Mr. Nosenko signed a new contract

for turo years at $18, 500, 00 per annum. At about this same time

he was provided with certain financial assistance, $20, 000.00

being for the down payment on a new house, and $5, 000.00 for

othes reiated household expenses. Mr. Nosenio's contract was

renowed at the new rate of $19, 500. 00 per annum on i March 1971,

and the contrac: was again renewed in February 1972. at the sclary

of 521, 000. 00 per annur,

7. An analysis of this case clearly indicates tnat Mr.

Nosenko has been an extremely valuable source, one who has

¿denated many hundreds of Soviet Intelligence Officers, and na

has otherwise provided a considerable quantity of useful information

on the organization of the KGB, its operational doctrine, and

methods. Ai least a thousand formal memoranda have been.

EYES ONLY

SEGRET

---

## Page 11

-EVES ONLY

forwarded to the Federal Bureau of Investigation based on dat

from Mi. Nosenko. He has conducted numerous special security

reviews on Soviet subjects of specific intelligence interest, and

he has proven himself to be invaluable in expioring counterintelli-

gence leads. He recently authored a book which is of interest to

the Agency. In effect, Mx. Nosenko has shown himself to be a

Productive and hard working defector; who is "rehabilitated" and

favorably disposed towards the Agency.

8.

In the course of a recent meeting with. Mi. Nosenko,

he brought up the subject of his missing salary, covering the

perioã from April 1964 to March 1969. Mr. Nosenko readily

admitted that be. is living very well at the present time, but he

is not in a position to save any money for the future. He also

expressed deep appreciation to the Agency for the financial

assistance which was provided him through the years, and he

considers this to have cancelled out the original Agency

obligation of a lump sum payment in the amount of $50, 000.00.

Mir. Nosenko, howaver, still feels quite strongly thai he is

entitled to be reimbursed for the salary which the Agency did

not provide him over a five-year period. He understands, of

course, inat income tax would have to be deducted from this

back salary of $25, 000. 00 per annum.

9. In summary, the original oral agreement with IMt.

Nosenko is fully documented and supports his claim; his resettie-

ment since 1967 has been relatively smooth, with no significant

security problems having developed; and he continues to function

ai the present time as a highly productive and useful source of

information on the KGS. In view of these various considerations,

it is requested that this payment of $125, 000. 00 to Mr. Nosenko

be approved. These funds would be paid out of unliquidated!

obligacions applicable to lapsed appropriations (Fiscal Year 1970

and prior years--"M" Account).

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 12

TIES DAY

SUBJECT: Retroactive Reimbursement of

Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko

CONCURRENCE:

6 Dais

(Date)

John W. Coffer

Deputy Director.

for Support

Thomas H. Karamessines

Deputy Director

for Plans

12006.22

(Date)

yote, lie

• William i, Colby

Grecuelve Director-Comptroller

180572

(Unts)

The recommendation in paragraph 9 is approvedithout DDP lindalinis

Richard Helms

Director

18 OCT 1972

(Dale)

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

