# 104-10012-10037

## Page 1

104-10012-10037

Date: 10/01/98

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION

SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10012-10037

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

FBI

FBI

FBI REPORT RE JOSEPH LAWRENCE CAMPBELL APPEARANCE AT FBI RE

DATE

INTERROGATION BY CUBAN OFFICIALS OF FISHING EXPEDITION IN MARCH

06/28/76

PAGES

SUBJECTS

STEERY, JOHN

DICKSON, FRED

FREEMAN, MIKE

JOHNSON, JOHN

NISTAD, BERNIE

PATTON, GORDON

BARACOA INTERRO

CAMPBELL, JOSEP

CLASSTFICATION PACLASSIFTEL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/24/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

:OSW16:V57 1993.06.24.14:23:53÷400800 :

1962.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HY 54559

DocId: 32108041

Page

1

---

## Page 2

(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap

and forward to IP/ADB

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

document to IP/AN.

FROM:

PROPER FILE NO.

IP/

IP/AN

EXT. 5178

GE-644

GA50

TUBE GTY

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

DATE

ROOM

NO.

REECHLD

FORWARDEC

INITIALS

CI/LS 2-C-35

Mr Hant wan

DOC. MICRO. SER.

JUL?

MICROFILMED

Bistaste

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

IP/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED

8-71

IN 54559

610g

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

DocId: 32108041

Page

2

FILE TITLE

'anons: 201-2891487

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

DBD

ICese/913

57166

FBI

(10)

---

## Page 3

• 0-14f (Fev: 8-15-72)

CIA HAS NC CPJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND.OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Federal Bureau of Investigation

June 18, 1973

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

ATTENTION: Deputy Director foreIGna Operations

: Mr. Coleman

BY CIA COURIER

X 1. For your information, I am enclosing communications which may be

of interest to you.

[J2. It will be appreciated if you will have the investigation conducted

as requested in the enclosed memorandum and furnish the results.

[J3. No further investigation is contemplated with regard to this matter.

[4. You will be advised of the pertinent developments in connection

with this inquiry.

• 5. Please note change in caption of this case.

[J6. Status of case:

_ Completed

_ Incomplete

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Enc. 2

NH

54559

- DocId: 32108041 Page 3

---

## Page 4

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND.OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

• UNITED STATES DEPAWEMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

June 13, 1973

28100289248

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

DOC. MICRO. SER.

JULa

MICROFILMED

On April 5, 1973, a confidential source, who is a

professional man and in a position to know, furnished a

document which is described as follows:

A 4x5 inch piece of paper bearing a yellow letter-

head with Western Union International Communications Cablegram

imprinted thereon with the following message to one Jack

Nellville dated September 20, 1963, via western Union Cables

at/tulsa, Oklahoma.

"Meet me at Sheritan Hotel in Dallas at 4 PM

on 9/21, room 567 stop expecting something big

stop dash be on time dash signed L. H. Oswald"

ADDRESSEE OF M Source advised he discovered this document while

FROM LEEHARVEY OSCORED / 201-289248

unloading a 14-volume set of medical books from his pick-up

truck.

Source was not certain whether this document had fallen

from these particular books or had fallen into the truck from

other books which he had recently collected. Source stated he

has been collecting veterinary books for the past

months in order to establish a veterinary library in Tulsa,.

Oklahoma, and that these books had all been contributed to

by various veterinarians in the Tulsa, Oklahoma area.

also advised he had previously received sone books from DI.

Everett J. Hickok and Dr. Fred L. Hutton, both_practicing

veterinarians using the same office space at 3550 South Peoria,

Tulsa, Oklahoma.

are known to be

and at the local veterinary.

speakers who would talk about Communism, law and order soard other

topics completely unrelated to the veterinary field.

stated they no longer attend the local veterinary meetings.

On April 5, 1973, Harold Anderson, Manager, Western

Union, 15 West 5th Street,

Tulsa. Oklahoma,

was shown the

Western Union document without revealing its contents, and he

advised that this document appeared to him to be a Western

Union memo form. Anderson stated he has been in the Western

RECORD CAry

This document contains neither

rocommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of

the FBI

and is loaned to your agency

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agoncy.

DBD 57166

NH 54559 DocId: 32108041 Page 4

201-289248

---

## Page 5

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

Union organization in Tulsa for ll years and this form became

obsolete sometime during 1964, and it appears it had never

been sent, or if it had been

sent it may have

been phoned into

his office since it does not bear the Western Union stamp

number or time sent.

Anderson further advised that these forms

may have at one time been given out for promotional purposes

and also given to large companies who had extensive dealings

with Western Union.

An official of Western Union at Minneapolis, Minnesota,

advised on April 12, 1973 that Western Union, Minneapolis

is the central nationwide repository for Western Union money

order records only. He further advised Western Union messages

are not filed in any central location, but are maintained at

the originating office for a period of 6 months to one year.

On April 13, 1973, JOhn Fedak, Assistant Controller,

advised the Sheraton Hotel was in existence in Dallas,

Texas during 1963.

He further advised registration cards for

the hotel are maintained for about 6Lyearsg-

He stated there

would be no registration cards for the Sheraton Hotel in Dallas

going back to September, 1963, and there were no hotel records

that would establish who occupied room 567 on September 21, 1963.

A summary of residences, schools and employments for

subject maintained at FBI Headquarters and the Dallas Division

of the FBI, reflects information from Mrs. Ruth Paine, Irving,

lexas with whom Marina Oswald, wite or subject, was residing

at the time of the assassination, who stated she drove Marina

Oswald to New Orleans, Louisiana on May 10 - 11, 1963 to be

with subject and sne returned from New Orleans with Marina

Oswald on September 23, 1953.

Information from above file reflects that Mrs.

Jesse James Garner, 4911 Magazine Street, New Orleans, Louisiana,

had substantiated that subject Lee Harvey Oswald resided at

4905 Magazine Street, New Orleans from May 9, 1963 through

September 23, 1963.

It is also reflected that subject filed

claims with the New Orleans Division of Employment

Security

on both September 17, 1963 and September 24, 1963, in person.

The above file indicates Lee Harvey Oswald was in

Yew Urleans on september 21, 1965, but does not specifically

establish he was in that city on September 21, 1963.

- 2-

HW 54559 DocId:32108041 Page 5

---

## Page 6

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

FBl Laboratory letter dated May 4, 19/3, indicates

typewriting on above noted cablegram most closely resembles

a Remington pica style of type used on a Cadet portable machine

model 4 B. This tyle of type dates back to 1938.

The age of

this document could not be determined.

FBI Laboratory letter

dated May 8, 1913, noted no latent prints of value developed

on submitted specimens.

On May 10, 19/3, John M. Adams, Assistant Manager,

Washington District Office of Western Union Telegram Company

(WUTC), 1405 G Street Northwest, Washington, D. C. advised that

a sheet from a Western Union International Communications

promotional type note pad, then (1963) readily available

at hotels, Western Union offices, etc.

But, only up until about

October 23, 1963, when Western

Union: Telegram

compan

was legally required to discontinue all cablegram operations,

Western Union International, Inc., (WUI) came to be established

as a

separate company.

Mr. Adams noted originating oifices

are required to hoid file copies only up to 1 months, or if chargeu.

thereafter until paid.

On May 21, 1973, Mr. Henry G. Catucci, Vice-President

for Wul Washington operations, 2100 M Street Northwest, washing-

ton D. C. stated he was of the opinion such memo pads were

generally available and questioned item could have been tendered

as the text for an actual telegram and/or cablegram.

He was

of the opinion that the item in question, most likely, was

simply a personal message typed for some unapparent reason and

possibly passed along by some other means, rather than ar

actual WUTC telegram or cablegram.

On June 5, 1973 a Special Agent for the FBI contacted.

the following agencies regarding Dr. Fred L. Hutton, Jack

Nellville,

DI. Everett J. Hickok,and Dr. R. E. Bailey

with negative

results:

Pat Malloy, Records, Tulsa Police Department;

Retta Cook, Records, Tulsa County Sheriff's Office;

Debra Williams, Records, Tulsa Credit Bureau.

. DBD 57166

= 3%=

NW 54559 DocId: 32108041 Page 6

---

