# 104-10071-10032

## Page 1

104-10071-10032

A CLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

'FIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional).

FROM:

CI/SO

TO: (Officer designation; room, number, and

building) ..

DATE

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER'S

INITIALS.,

RECEIVED.

FORWARDED

NO.

RL-188

DATE

:13. November 1968

OMMENTS (Number each commant. to shore from whor

to whom..

Draw a line across column after oodli comment.

LYES ONLY

Originated by:

CI/SO:

(13 Nov

68)

based on: Memo, 7 Oct 68 from

WH/Z Panama

CA/CF draft memo

based on OELA 49850

Disseminated to: FBI on

13 Nov 68

10.

4200

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

File: RI-Memos (record copy)

(w/att)

CC:

"Chinese Connections"

(sens. soft w/att)

cc: JWK (W/att)

1524

D USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

EYES ONLY

INTERNAL

USE ONLY.

446

RL-188

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEOKEY

NO TONES DOSEN NO DISSE ABROAD

RL-188

13 NOV 1968

SUBJECT:

Communist Chinese Propaganda Booklet Supporting the

Negro Uprisings in the United States

l..

Attached are copies of the Spanish and English versions

of a propaganda

booklet prepared in Communist China supporting

-the Negro uprisings in the United States.

The Spanish version

was shipped to the Peoples Party - Communist in Panama and

was

received from a sensitive source.

The English version was

vincluded with a copy of the May 1968 issue of Crusader.

2. The booklet, entitled, "Statement by Comrade Mao

Ise-lung, Chairman of the Central Committee of the Communist

Party of

China, in Support of the Afro-American Struggle

Against Violent Repression," is dated 15 April 1908, a few

Vdays after the assassination of Martin Luther King.

.. It cites

the Negro struggle in

struggle astrust the yan te tep statists asseme

the world

asserts that

world

revolution has entered a new era, and urges all people

to unite and eliminate this enemy.

PLEASE TRANSMIG REPLY VIL LINSON, MR. S. J. PAPIOE

Enclosures: 2, as listed

Based on:

Memo, 7 Oct 68 from WH/2 Panama

CA/CF draft memo based on OELA 49850

Originated by:

CI/SO

:13 November 1968

SEN NO BEST PORCID

CEACT

Excared

---

