# 104-10104-10411

## Page 1

104-10104-10411

• de

UACASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional):

FROM:

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

: ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

co. IDENTIAL

SECRETS

÷ DATE

RECEIVED FORWARDED

EXTENSION:

1653

OFFICER'S

: INMALS.

2.

3.

4.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

General Counsel:

7D01

BRId

JHG

ins. Bladergroeh

ibir

3 Den. Connail

7N01

"July -

NO.

DATE

5 JUN 1968

COMMENTS. (Number each comment to show

to whom.

Praw a line acrogs column after each

06068-1022.

hote calib's

наше in tem $

ase me currently.

ia touchi?

15 н

Thank how

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USEOPRONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

06668-1022

SECRET

WUN ?968

MEMORANDUM No. 9

SUBJECT: Grrison and the Kennedy Arsasalnation

-

I SUMMARY

Tals memorandum provides information sbout twenty persone

who have not been listed previously in thie sertes, who are Involved

In the Garrison case, and who have or have claimed to have a connection

with the Central Intelligence Agency. One. Willtar Claren WOOD,

do a former stall employee.

L. PERSONNEL

1. Thonas Edward BECKHAM (aks Mart EVANS)

GARRISON ambpeensed BECKHAM 30 Decembez 1967

and an Omabs, Nebranka, judge ordered blai to retarn to

Louisiana 30 January 1968, BECKHAM says he helped Sergio

ARGAGHA Smith ratee funde for Cuban revolutionary forces la

New Orleans in 196% BECKHAM is an entertainer-evangellet

who unes the stage name of Mark EVANS.

b. On 3 January 1968 BECKHAM allegedly told David

LEWIS of New Orlenne that he, BECKHAM, and a Jiva LNU

"Irora Omaha" are agents of the CIA.

c. RID has no record of BECKHAM.

2. Melvin BELLl

2. BELLI Was a delense attorney for Jack RUBY.

b. Jira GARRISON was & weckend guest of BElt. when

GARRISON visited San Francieco in October 1967.

CHOOP 1

SEGRET create matis

downgrading and

declassiticadisa

---

## Page 3

(

•

SECRET

c. BELLI was reportediy involved in illieit drug

traffie with Morris ELOWITZ In 1958. ELOWITZ was &

muspected contact of Lucky LUCLANO.

3. Donald Dean BOHNING (201-813709)

-

* BOHNINO is the Latio American Editor of the

Miant Herald. He ms granted a PCSA on 21 August 1967

and e CSA on 14 November 1967. He l AMGARBON 3.

b. BOHNING reported he was contacted on 28 March 1968

by a Winston SMITH who clalmed to be investigating Rolando

MASFERRER for Jira GARRISON.

4. Colonel 1. Robert GASTORA

a. Col, CASTORR allegedly met with Jack RUBY,

Robort PERRIN, and there ln Dallas in 1962 to plan a Cuban

amuggling operation. CASTORR is also allegedly an associate

of General Edwin A. WALKER. Joachin JOBSTEN and others

have broadly hinted that CASTORR le associated with ClA.

b. There is no record of agency association with

CASTORR. As FBI report of 13 March 1968 reported that

CASTORR had lunch with Viktor Ivanovich MIRONOV (201: 731015)

a Ecs otticer at the Soviet Embasay In Wackington.

5. Lloyd J. COBB

do As President of the New Orleans Trade Center,

COBB was, according to Plot or Politice, the "posa" ol Glay SHAW.

1. COBB was granted a GSC on 3 October 1953 for use

on a private attorneys' panel for the OGC. COBS wae granted a

PSA on 19 June 1967 to permit contact and assesement in connection

with ide use on a cleared attorneys' panel for the OGC.

6. Michael Charles CONLEY

=. Michael Charles CONLEY is an apparent US Goverament

SOUICE of Robert Kenneth BAOWN.

b. A Dr. Michael C. CONLEY applied for Agency

employment in 1964. Identity with e, above, has not been

established.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

. *

(

SECHET

7. Allen W. DULLES

8. GARRISON subpoenaed Mr. DULLES on

16 February 1960 as a naterial witness.

b. On 7 March 1968 Judge Matthew BRANIFF Issued

a second subpoena for Mr. DULLES.

c. Os 22 May 1968 GARRISON'e office accused the

Justice Department of refusing to cooperate in the subpoenaing

of Mi. DULLES as a vitaese.

8. Wienlaw GORNICKI (201-198323)

# GORNICKI 1s s Polth journalist who was the auther

of a long artlete on the GARRISON inventigation in "Politya"

No. 1 (566), Year XII Warsaw, 6 Jamary 1968.

b. GORNICKI was the subject of an unsuccessful

recruitment attempt la 1965 while he wal a correspondent at

the UN.

9. Marshall Wilsan HOUTS (201-833160)

*. HÖUTS, a former F'Sl agent, in the author of an Ye:

article in Medical Economies 4 March 1968 which criticined

the autopsy of President Kennedy.

b. HOUTS served with OSS in Burma during World

War Il and was involved ta the misappropriation of goverament

property. HOUTS induccenslully applied for Agency employment

t 1952.

10. Guy Persac JOHNSON (201-207873)

#. JOHNSON was an early defense counsel for

Clay SHAW.

b. A POA was requested la May 1954 for JOHNSON

o be used on Guarn as a contract agent for OOODLAK (ratany

The request for the POl wal later cancelled.

11. Willlam R. KLEIN

a. According to Plot or Polidics KLEIN was an

SEBRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

z/PV

incorporator of Friends of Democratic Cuba, along with

Guy BANSTER, Willer DALLahl, and Grady C. DURHAM.

KIKIN dented contact with DUAHAM, BANISTER, and Friende

of Democratle Cuba, He admiited association With DALLELL te

set up the f'ree Volce ol Intin Ameriel. KELIN scera to be

• personal friend of Ilm GARRISON.

b. KLEIN applied for agency employment in 1965

but accepted a job with the US Navy General Counsel'e Office.

17 Robert Evensen LEE

a. LEE was an Asblatant District Attorney for Jim

GARBISON from 1 January 1967 to I January 1968.

b. LEE applied for agency employment on 5 Janiary 1968.

13. Willem Richard MABTIN (201-488516)

•. MARTIN wes an Assiatant Distrtet Attornay for

Jim GARRISON until December 1967.

b. MARTIN wad(& DCS contact and dource la 1964 and

1965.when when ho was Dlrector of International Relatione and World...

Trade ol International House In New Orleans.

14. Relman MORIN (201-109129)

*. MORIN to the author of Assasstnatlon, & pro- Warren

Commieelen book.

b. MORIN provided information to OSS on his internment

In Indo China during the early part of World War II.

e. MORIN was coneldered for the job of President of the

Committee los a Frus Asta in 1951 and the job of Prestdent of

(PILLAR Mada foundation) da 1953.

15. Dr. Alten OCHSNER (201-834497)

A. An FBI confidential informant reported on 24 April 1968

that Jias GARRISON believen Dr. OCHSNER was a principal

Involved in the conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

•C'T

SECRET

b. De. OCHSNER la Director of the Ochener

Foundation, head of the Ochaner Clinte, and President of the

Information Counell of Arserica. He la a world-lamous surgeon.

c. DI. OCHSNER was of contact interent in October

1947 and November 1948. Fle has been a cleared source since

13 May 1955. The last official contact with Dr. OCHSNER

personally occurred en 8 January 1962 and with the Ochaner

Clinie on 8 November 1963.

16. Robert PERRIN

=. Robert PERAIN allegedly net with Jack RUBY,

Cal. I. Robert CASTORE, and others in Dallae in 1962

to plan & Cuban smuggling operation. PERRIN has been accused

of being a CIA gun-runner in Spain and in Cube.

b. A Lt. (18) Robert Polloch PERRIN fled a personal

history statement with OSS in Jamary 194€. There to no

indication he ever served with OSS or was later connected with

tho Agency.

17. Benjarla SONNENBERG

#. Mark LANE sald on the aetnerledgement page of

SON FO Judge i Wan deny ident a ve Bonte neggestions

bave found their way into this volume."

b. Benjamin SONNENBERO was granted a CSA on

29 June 1959 for use under Project QKENCHANT. The GSA

was revalidated for continued use on 26 July 1965.

c. An April 1959 Dunn and Bradatreet report listed

SONNENBERG ab a director of the publishing firm of Henry

Holt and Company, Ine., 383 Madison Ave., New York City.

Kush to Juegement was published by Holt, Rinchart and Wilson

Inc., 383 Madieon Ave., outsasibly the same company.

d. An October 1954 FBI report said that in 1938 Alfred

K. STERN camnarked $3000 in a bank account to guarantee a

bank loan made to SONNENBERG.

RET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

• ...

...

*. There la no indication that SONNENBERG ever

used the term

"juntor" and it la not known yet if he has s son

of that name.

18. Ms, and MTa. Edgar Bloom STERN (He l8 201-17854))

&. Jack ROGERS, the committee counsel for the joint

legimlative Committee on Un-American Activities for the State

of Loulatana, reported to the DCS on l June 1967, that

GARRISON had been recelving contributions and monetary

support frora Mro. Edgar B. STERN.

b. Mrs. Edgar B. STERN is the former Edith

ROSENWALD and the former sister-In-law of Alfred K. STERN.

e. Clay SHAW attended a party siven by "an old

friend", Edith STERN, apparently in October 1967.

d. Edger B. STERN was granted a covert clearance

1a January 1933 for une at a donor la Project LiCOIN. This

clearance was cancelled in Septernber 1956.

•. Philip Maurice STERN, son of the above mentioned

couple, was granted a liaison clerance in March 1961 when he..;

was the Doputy Aestatant Secretary of State for Public Affaire.

Philip STERN was alno named as one of a "board of adviaors"

to Hubert HUMPHREY in 1961.

19. Monroe SULLIVAN

A. SULLIVAN claimed to be with Clay SHAW ia

San Franclaco all day 22 November 1963.

b. SULLIVAN was granted a CSA on 10 December

1962 to permit utilization under Project QKENCHANT.

10. Willlam Clareas WOOD (201-834272)

8. A BILL WOOD, sing the name BIll BOXLEY, le

Investigating CLA and ite operatione for Jim GARRISON.

b. BIll WOOD is belleved to be identical with William

Clarens WOOD, a tormer atali employee of thie Agency.

6

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

c. Willam Clarens WOOD, born 17 August 1920,

was approved for OSS duty In December 1944, but was not

utilized. On 1J December 1950 WOOD was granted & C9C for

atilization an a Stall Agent with Project IProCUs. He satered.

a nervouo breakdown la March 1952.O He was assigned to OTE

ad an instructor (OS-11) in May 1952. He resigned 27 Jannary

1953, after his resignation had been requented, because of

alcoholier, While under the influence of nodiam pantothol during

a medical operation In July 1953 WOOD made statements showing

oxtreme antagonie. toward the Agency. The FBI reported in

April 1957 that WOOD had offered asslatance to the Natlonalint

Chinese Intelligence Service, DCS requosted clearance to uno

WOOD In February 1967 bat dropped the request after the FBI

reported that ho was drinding heavily again.

Mk:"

SECHET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Ortglnated by:CI/R&AiJWKesler;dm

5 June 1968

Dlatribution:

Orig - DCL

1 = DDP

1 - Executive, Goraptroller

1 - General Gouneel

1- A/DOL

1 - Office of Security

1 - Director, Domentic Contact Service

1 - WH/Cuba

1 - G/CI, DC/CI

1 - ReA chromo

1 • Garrison Sile

H

SECRET

-

---

