# 104-10217-10107

## Page 1

fisH

104-10217-10107

-ABLE SECRETAR AT DISSEMINATIO

CLASSTED BISSAGE

wisen Fried lal

To worst

86--158÷889 80

AJTANCECOPY

ISAGED

BiOPIES

ACTION

AT.

15

0I9.500_36

Suit

PuR. VR

SEGRET 161343Z OCT 69 CITE WASIAXI 5502

SMIM

DIRECTOR INFO

RYBAT TYPIC AYABDUCT, ANCALL

3P

160c 55256808

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 4636R

Co UFA: -531

1o ANSIGH-2 AND WIFE HAVE KEPT BINIARIS ABREAST

MICROFILMED

DEVELOPMENTS ANCALL-I CASE. RIF 3 STATEMENT AMSIGH-2

OCT 2 8 1969

DOC. MICRO. SER.

REJECTION OF CASE NOT ACCURATE; WIFE, AUSICH-2 OPINED ALONSO

BOULD NOT TAKE CASE DUE HER ASSESSIENT ASCALL-I. IN LETTER

TO ALONSO 24 SEPTEMBER SHE ASKED IF HE WOULD TAKE CASES OF

ASCALL-L AND RICARDO MONTERO DUQUE. ACCORDING AMSIGK-2

WIFE, ALONSÓ REPLIED IN DUE COURSE THAT HE AGREED ACCEPT

CASE AMCALL-I BUT MADE NO MENTION OF MONTERO CASE.

SUBSEGUENTLY AXSIGH-2 VIFE TOLD WIFE AYCALL-I INAT $20, 000

KAD BEEN OFFERED FOR AYCALL-I AND IHAT THE $2583 EXPENSE

MONEY FOR ALONSO MUST BE FORWARDED IMMEDIATELY. ON BASIS

REF C AMCALL-A WIFE WAS LED BELIEVE RVROCK ASSISTANCE COULD

BE EXPECTED.

20 RE NECESSITY OF CLEARING NAMES PRIOR FORWARDING

168a49

018,201-175949

0B 201 - 312305

ES COPY

SECRET

49-6-13613

---

## Page 2

or total

SOASSBEONLRE

CE -19 TO T 00 F

310908888696

83000.

# 9A + 601-79

PIPARD-OICE CHINS CONESSES

SHAACE EAT,

"S8060

SLOTTES

D-85E4 BY

ACTION

dia,

CLASSIFY TO PILE DO

N-NR0 50 308 60.-

PEE NO COET TO

TING

DRID COPY one re

PAGE 2 WUMIAY: 5502 SECRET

TO ALONSO, AISIGH-2 HAS DETERYINED NOT FORWARD ANY ADDITIONAL

CASES UNTIL SPONSORS HAVE MADE PAYSENT $2523 EXPENSE FEE.

IN VILLAVERDE AND AMRIPE-2 CASES, AMSIGÄ-2 WAS OBLIGED ASK

ALONSO ACCEPT INSTALLHENTS ON EXPENSES WHEN SPONSORS WERE

UNABLE PAY ENTIRE FEE AFTER ALONSO HAD AGREED ACCEPT CASES.

STATION FEELS THAT IF SPONSORS NEW CASES APPROACH AMSIGH-2

AND ARE ABLE RAISE $2520 EXPENSE MONEY WITHOUT RESORTING

APPROACH RVROCK THERE LITTLE VALID OBJECTION WE CAN OFFER

AISIGH-2 FORSARDING CASES ALONSO. WE CAY, HOWEVER, CONTROL

FORARDING OF CASES WHERE ANY APPROACH MADE TO RVROCK

EITHER FOR PORTION OR ALL OF EXPENSE MONEY OR RANSOY OFFER.

ANY CASE WHICH IS SUCCESSFULLY CONCLUDED WITHOUT OUR

FINANCIAL PARTICIPATION WILL ADD SUESIANCS TO STORY THAT

FUNDS BEING RAISED WITHIN EXILE CIRCLES.

3O ONLY IMPEDIMENT TO CONTINUED AMICABLE RELATIONSHIP

BETWEEN BINIARIS AND AMSIGH-2 CONCERNS DOCUMENTATION OF

CASES. IN AXPANIC-T CASE WE HAVE COPIES OF ORIGINAL

CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SPONSORS AND ALONSO. IN CASES BEING

HANDLED BY AYSIGH-2 WE HAVE ONLY SEEN TYPEVRITTEN COPIES OF

LETTERS AND CABLES WHICH HAVE ALLEGEDLY PASSED BETWEEN

SECRET

---

## Page 3

CREE SECATARLY DESERTOI

LASCUUATESIANLO

CLAYER LO RESIAGE

POUTNG ALS OR LOT

budd

(SOTTEN

A7

#HOUSE

#° 038026096

RISHID:C: 01C8-0165988900TO

CHAST TO FILE NO

MAN TO FILE DO.

1901

ДІВВІД В9

01980=46

PAGE 3 WH/MIAMI 5582 SECRET

AYSIGH-2 AND ALONSO. CONSPICULOUSLY ASSENT IN THIS CORRES-

PONDENCE IS ANY MENTION BY ALONSO OF SPECIFIC FIGURE FOR

EXPENSES® THIS NAS LED SUSPICION THAT DIFFERENCE BETWEEN

RPANIC-Y CASE EXPENSE (S1532) AND OTHER CASES (52568) MAY

BE "RAKE-OFF" BY AYSIGH-2. SINIARIS" INSISTENCE UPON COPIES

OR ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE MAY BE CAUSE FOR SQUE RESENTMENT.

4o BINIARIS ASSURES THAT TO HIS KNOWLEDGE THE ANSIGHS

HAVE NOT BEEN GIVEN RUROCK APPROVAL FOR FORWARDING ANY

CASES OTHER THAN ASCALL -I AND AYRIPE-2.

So PONCHAY WILL DISCUSS STATION HANDLING THESE CASES

DURING VISIT HQS. APPRECIATE OFFER IDY ASSISTANCE; ÇOS

WILL DISCUSS INIS ALSO®

6. FILE: 19-6-136/3. X REF 281-275949, 271-312395.

SECRET

SECRET

L

---

