# 104-10187-10022

## Page 1

104-10187-10022

RETURN TO CIA

Background Ves Only

INCLASSIFI.'D

SUBJECT. (Ophonel)

MOM.

WH/3/Mexico/C. Bustos/85940

(Orione dougneton, room number, end

turking)

I'TERMAL

• 'USE ONLY

CG IDENTIAL

XI. SECRET

ROUTING AND'RECORD SHEET

+11014 - 29387

DATE

25. November 1963

;

7.

_C/WH/3/Merlco

J. CAN/3

_WH/B&F

C/MH/Support

3.

.

%.

a */Pl/Pro100t Officer

WH/C/PO/A

WH/CLOPS

AICER':

NITIAL

REMINI ANDED

R

29 NOY

grie

1131800

пр бік

10.

Kitt

113t14:19.kir

13.

DDP/PG/FI (3C37)

3 BINOL

WH/3/Mexico/C. Pustag

15.

610 use pengus

SECRET.

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCISS.NG ACTION.

MARIO DON INDEXING

ONLY QUALITO DESE

CAR NOGE IHOOLIN

W/C90/161

PHONE

SUBJECT

ACTION FLQUILD. PIERENCES

Antion: Resort of Projeci

Dormanted Herculth and under negronte cover to the utatton's revlow

o! Projech 1I20r% don wreparch ot renorint the predect tor the porlo? 1

Decerber 19ús than a d0 Poverbed les, The mount requested to tund the

project for wii: perion in li 19,,00, or aoproxiatoly the tarr nis vas

approvel for the put profore ver.

RECORDS DITIOUR STAK

Tho 10ll01:7

• a=:'0:1 151

03-

asthorises: L

Pillard (-(witis

772

51c.:6d:

2.0. 133 - 1: WH4/R

cito

i coscelnato

Astachaon'.:

Horowith and lidor socatale Cover

Debrition:

CROSS REFERENCE TO

630371

00373-305

63 Cu. 1

ASSAYCH SURROR ANO NUMBER

£32-2217

CLASSIFICATION

1/12-3-39

HE'S ALL PURRER

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEGRET

PROJECT

SEGRET

SILLA PARTIA HANNOIET

56-6-74/1

CS COFY

SEO....

STACION

Mielerd (Cortes

Willari C. CUttIS, Chies of Slation

50-6-7411

SECRETA

Tel No: 13117-2432387

---

## Page 4

14-00000

um.

I. CUNNINE OZI CTIVEL NE PROPUCTTOI RETACED TH MUCO

A. OlIver G. CCATCLINO Sement (in rolation to project obfcctivse.)

"To colleat perational Infomation pertainine to lOLlIK personnel

and physieal facilities.

SCArLIlG has continucd to provide sarinwhile In-

•ortintion in support of this objociive.

(see previous project mirer lowaried

bE 1091A-20052 Or 13 O-cober 19G2.)

Durns the past jenr cArtily war used to

collow up lande proluced by both LIFiNT and LInNOY in support or this objective.

In particula: Scarild provided, In blueprint vetail, cosio, reparte on the

homes of ino corlet Irtellicency

offlecro who nre taricle lar suasion tochnlenl

diNarlie cloo 1o wied to nis thc Sintion in mintairin, current recons

of the rostiences of sovial personnel livine In Mexico.

Ints is encomplished by

SCALING'e EChlovID Of LINVOY lendr wich indicato soviet Irterest in renting

spoilfic properlor.

2. "To collect operational information pertainin, to slier tarcelo of op

portune, forcin africial Inatellattons and purconnel of intelligenes intercot

operatina in larico." SCAVLING has proved cuceconful in proving information

on other ciation enricts:

B. SONLIld obtalned inforation on NMIQLer-2, a cubeet Sovlet

support arent which var the basis of aurther Clacion operatlons

aiinat this tarret.

D.

scarruIld proviled a casins of the former Yosiar Conmereinl

Ofiler aralnot wnich the Stetion had planned a toccaleel operation.

Hoverer, thle aite uno evacuated by the tarcet mission beforc

plans were completed for this attompt.

SCArITO cas conductel detailed Invoctigatione in various casoo

invoivine possible arento or contncts of hoctile Irtelligence ser

¡ecro These coucs vere ot prime concour to ¿cation Mexico but

frequentle vere under:clion at the requect of liedicarters or other

Stations.

3o "Do provide support to puner otation operations as may be requested by

the siallor officure concernel."

In the mast SChLIld's neivities in this area

vera corcemal primally with recrultmento, acorietings dom surrelilanced.

the reportira: perion, novover, the sole no coumma suspent to otheritation

operations lave taken ouner coims.

sunles trom this aron of activ!t!

the mous frithel crore on SCalINd's wirt:

---

## Page 5

11000г

Sii.

2-

inpport of the conctive MOD operation, in which Raymond H.

GauNDe nico plaico a vital role, was of simular importance to

tho succcor of the operation. SCNLIId's many clolo of op-

crablonal expurlenes sere amwn on fully and be thered? provided

a unique contribution to the spointion.

Without the arsistance

• SCANTLINd i Git NDe Mila their unlue quallelertions, this

operation would have icon diffieult in the extreme li Indeed at

In cuppore oi the staclen's inmsement compaich sinint Juan Jose

MaNNO Bermojo, Inmolied nt the requert of lcadgumicro,

¿CArTING anal provided tho means for carryin; oul a Jerie portion

SANTLING's crores rancoi from the mailinr

the placiny of threatening

SCANTInG also made calle to various Miricon nevi

aments the mullen montree"

C.

¿CAULING 16 boed no Lie alternie contachin a sensitive LAURICLE

project This is to: the purpose or mininoimi the caner or tho

netion went in this project bein. preonised as belur in contnot

wIlh en obvious Pault: ciclen.

SCAILING's contribution to this

optention has been nodevorthy both: ¿rum lie stamipoint of reurity

and arent hurdline

1!.

¡CAPLING contine: to corduct, nunerous portent and neithrorhoo.

•abionio

do in the most muy oi these invertication: vore

in solation to hloly sensitive cutes.

* ALmih UCANILING: LIary projcot objoctives ean not be emplotel:

Mucilled, to is the Scatton's opinion that SCUMPLING continues to aner aluable

con ritalion los the obfusives do to prodoot and to other mation acciottie.

scoLid's praiction, named aminot porciary apenditare, cooe officer time

ai: oshot Enernethlos theto??,

immeatlonble Justifies his corcinuing as in

intenal part of Project LIlarY,

8. dimo: la GuaDe dement (in ilation to project obiestives) :

"Po coller oberttoral acoration perlainin to iToICk gorceuncl

an cassical inethllies thoned use di potostalle baschouses." Tirer phoio

„pile base:, LINITEN, LILYATO si LIeNIa, contrtbuto to these cujuctives.

MECueR SCWILIG now neir a chold with the INITED base, Gian: conulaur

to do coronable loo the proorari, di all bioto take iron the lift nporallon

¡laine the con LINTIED, Do mold repetition, the mation le omic.lne tho

ioneriesion of the Mmettono ei ciose tiare bases ant hor they contribute to the

main sue illy mooribed in: the 1960 Requesi for Projest Rischal

(1334-1797).

SEGRET /

14/3

---

## Page 6

"="1

"To collet operation! Incomation an Identify oportionl leecs

pertainin; to staclor tariots of apporunity.

The II-DERAP operation,

handled by GalilDe, Is still the mjor contributor to this objective.

LIENTRAP uporational coplasis custinos to romin in she area of photo strico:

of prominent Mexican Camunists id is presently vorklis ulltime on presidine

picturco of intlildunt Commisti, tons suspected ot bein; meeting sites use

by the Consurint Party and the Cornist Party Honiquarters Itoclf. LISTRIP

has alco recently berun to ie used on inknick leads.

It is expocted that

acilvities do hIntil in that latter men will expand in the coning jear..

"To provide operational support to station opertions inclulias the

reature of houel rooms and sate pantments, rentin and servicing où post ectice

bozes, und conducting counter-survelllenees."

GEranns's contrlbution to the

AMROD uprintion was noted in arm inch I.A.3.n. above.

G'20IDE' DE's compretensive

arca rowloirs md personal mumtional capabllitles mable him to make a

valuable contribution in suon operators as Mi0D and alas chable him to arouse

the most desirenble into sides ta cupport or the Station's opemblons.

project, recoto, paricularly GRaDe in! LUNPPY-10, presently provide 2e

post offles our mail drops for use of Malco City Sration and viher Stations.

Althoush 1e lis blonned to rince this rumber considemoly during the next 1er,

(since other dialion assets no ra: provide a cmber od live recommolation

adúresses), a amber as poet villee boes will do rinined for ne in cuture

" The quallty and quantity of operational Incoration produced by the

photorraonie bases and other activities under GERUNDa's control anl rupervision

is conclucred by the siation vorthulle and in some cares inique.

cluir, insteinre, thai this sement os the LIMITY Pojeet should be continied.

C. Relationahin lo she delated Miscion Dircoliva

As rioted in the escaples ilven abore, Project LlisiTY les provided reuncie

suppor: 10 muni Gotion opcinolons and thcreby has been a contributins lacio. to

the culilllaone of the Seladri Mission objectives of she Station.

II. CHANGIES

Tho one mior cinnie unle in the LIMPIY Projeci Ins the roplacesent ci

This bas arrage!

In also mhes son batter rport with the basehouse liceger (LisET-o)

since scAriNG is closer in ade to mim than

is Grams.

LOUIE: J. MACRINO (os) suctered a recurrchee or di: heart contition ation

nearly causes her

deat aporoximacaly eight fearo air. Couplete mit ras beon

---

## Page 7

prides

chionel by her doctora and an operation maj be necessary in enrly 1964.

It is therefore unlikoly that she will be able to work during the coming

project year. Station does not plan to rejuest cancellation of her operational

clearice at this time, but has not included salary priments to her in the

estimatod costs of tho project for the coming joar.

he unucunt salary increase reflcotes for LIEMPTY-19 In the "Project Costa

below sectlonfor the coming yenr is due to this arent's now duties of LIFEA

processine in addition to her old duties as trnslator. Agent's OA was amended

III. ERSESTIVONESS

Inixed the Station's neel for the

upe on services provided uy the dinete of this profeet are at lenat as gronl

toiny as they were when those corments vere originall: forwaried

IV. PROBINS

Tere are presently no knom rajor problems tucin" the operation which vouli

'tico elther the sccurity or the cileculvons or this operation.

The accurity

Oiles Iacire the LICAIA portion di the operation and dicerlbed In HMMA-159

id sucsoquent renchal requests has been resolvei by the Ciban Goverment's relea

of three KURIOr personnel enrlier this jear.

Mis soup had knorlese of tle LICAllA operation.

Ruth SCANTLING and GURNDE took the LCULUTE? durtng the month of October

1965.

No security problems were revenled by this test.

V. PI115

The Surtion considers that. the project is operatin, at Its optimum size and

does no plan to expend it during the comins jenr.

Efforts will be continued to

rorine ani better utilier the existing project organization and to Improve the

comparicentation and security ot the project.

VI. COSTS

A. fast troject yoar Juation Iccords shor that troject lllity expended approx.

insiel jUs 50,000.00 curlis FY 190j (2 Deceaber 1902 - 30 June 1905) and has

to date in FY 196t (throush 50 Septemuer 1905) expendei jus 7,020.

jUS 10, :00 will be expender

during the last tro montho of the project year.

This bill mke a total expenuirue for she project jens of about gus 40,600 or

jUs 1,200 under that which as allotted for this project.

3.

let irojest Yorr- Ci the sotal jus 19,700 buliet, icemized below, approxi

mately il3 30,290 will be expendcu in F! 190% and che remairdor ;US-19,410 In

Py 1905.

SECRET /E

SECRET !

---

## Page 8

r. .

•JELL SALARIES

Including X'mas bonuses

Rayond Hi. GERENDE

Oliver G. SCANTLING

outse J. MACRI

at jus 2.02 per how

"TIMPTY-S

(a= US 1.75 per hour)

LIPMPTY-6

LIBMPTY-7

LIBP-3

LIIMPTY-10

LIUATY-11

LIIMPTY-12

LIEMPTY-13

LIEXPTY-14

LIPPTY-19

LILMPTY-24

us per jenr ly luct

6,000

5,500

no salary

2,400

1,000

3,700

no saiary

2,100

3,000

4.400

2,500

2,000

2,000

2,000

2,000

110 salasy

INs 39,500.

sus 24,540

SUB TOTAL

OPERATICHIAT EXPENSES

Transportation:

Mainterence of 3W-2279, RV 2224,

MY 2236

2,000

S..

EX 1965

jUS 15,160

---

## Page 9

.!

...

Operationn) Expenac:

Real scente

ent, utilities and maintenanc

of baschousco

LIMITED®

LICALIA*

LILYRIC

Procured wo of archousee, post

automobiles

urchase of Intormation, document

nil bribe

Us Per Ycar EX 196%

EX 1905

3, 300

1, 700

1,200

500

SUB TOTAL

repair, inaintenance and purchuse o

replaeement photocrapule equiuen

anil purenaso of i1lm

SUB TOTAL

_5cO

9,a00

5,3.20

3,010

11.000

1,000

560

CHAND TOYAL

VII. IMAGINCY CONDICIONS

SUS 49,700

sus j0,200

•US 19,410

1211.15981 Of 2j November Iúded For ferther information sue project renewal

request of 1960 corwarded by HISA 15919.

VITI. TRATHING

to training, ober tien sint withla the earsetency of SCANTLING or GORI:

o cive, is anticinated for the coring project year

* NUTE:

LIMITED and LiCAbld toutrane retuned is sintion by thOUSIN. and credited

to LIlEEA expense.

50-6-7411

50:6-74%1

EMILEDEPARTIEHMA 22387

CS C07%

ENCE/PONTES HMAR-2238

---

