# 104-10172-10033

## Page 1

104-10172-10033

PREAT

*Byes voy

DEE- 14/054

a Chen Braditie

08

FEMI

Did A fA

Late 1a Sentenber 1963,1

ate motored o for lotter latacindy that band made to prete

GERALO PerCERTNEMAiNE

Deny Divo,

Sorry I bine

La the Coin

to

tong

10

bai

to

have time could you fire on sons pries

:? canopy (casour.) packed in cargo

or for airdroja. Also, la arybody

rich one of the expedities to mibe ecie

• been bothering kali cus of us to go

big stor on a sus for TV sod surel

osition to conmirs and linde the stori

If Pire Ventures ta Literestad, don

at word da Bos Staclair sid the othere?

"As alris,

- end

Disar for latter for volunte

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY,

63 6077

100-4-14

4 Ост 1961

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

Dosr Sir,

Thank jou for your letter requesting information conceraing our

organization.

He have recelved anny letters such us yours and are

plessed to find thut there are thousands of young hericans thac

aro austous to actively participaco la the flisht against Internata

lonal Connunisa.

1;.:

First, let me state that we are en ladesendont and solf support

ing organization. Our primory nission is to provide quallfied

Instructors for nil legitinate orgenizations socively righting the.

communists. Xine feelychat auericans would be in a better position

to defend their country if they were trained in the arts of Guerr-

111a Warfare and Survivor Xolf apporting unit our presente

facilitles are extremely limited and we are accopting only those.

veterans that were Special Forces trained as Guorr ile Warfare

lastructors, survival, parachute qualified otc.

#130 we suggest.:

that prior to an individuals leaving his home he should have already

purchased his.ow untformse. combat equipment, have a cat, and enough

ttker340023232225677342

money to pay room. and board until he can be placed with one of che

units under our commend Neare NOT operates do a conventional"

force and thereforei do notihave standard bartack facilitient

Considering the arorenentioned, should you still be faterested

in Joining, we suggest that prior to your departure for liant you,

contact a Local SKL DIvER CWS (Parechutists) or 6x-paratroopera.^

and have them train you as a parachutiste

After your five student

9073EN06

Jumps you should buy your own equipment (bacit-pack, reserve, boots,

5300120

helmety ets.*

The porschute trainlos and rive student Jumps

should oost not more than 40.

ill of our setive nembers gre

•i".

parachute qualiried and have contributed to the costs of equipment

and aircraft.

Thank you agyin for you interest ind if you wish to write addresg

011 311 tO INSPY, 0/O GERRY FITRICE, CERRIL DELIVERY, ALAST, PA: I

---

