04 10776-10074

FRM or Lawren

SUNECT 1 Meeting with GivaMIE-3} 35 Jen 1764

Us A meeting with £-3 took piece frea 2010 «stil 21LS hours 30 Jan
1964 at the safe epartvent, ‘L=9 wis in surprisingly good spirits, showed
7 none’ of his usual depression,

2. (L-9)reporte! on the following:

&. On Saturday 18 Jan at the nsual Enbassy staff meeting, several
now assignnents vere psssed out. A "tiree month plan® vag
announced ard during this period staf? members, in additioa
to their ustal duties, wil? orecare special reports on several

*
+ pet physica nt bedy, activities, ways in witch the Cubaa
: government can exert influence, tc, Geo wiit|

} Dra.
e qs rem will do a report on countries which have diplomatic ree
“Yations with Cuba -- emphasizing how contact with representatives
here in Mexico of such countries wy ba parlayed into sonething
3U : more worthwhile for the Castro governwent, Rogelio RODRIGUEZ wae
PI?” given an assignment as Political Reporting Officers

o 4 At this naeting GulJlermo 2UI2_of the Commercial Office -= tho has
My prvo3 recently beet merpita ss @ Tanatical Fidelista <= spoke out about,
ce the recent accord between the USSR and Cuba, saying that it was
\Y) convenient for the WS2 to keep on the ood side of Cuta and thus
she keep a dacger in the back of the imperialists, Ambassador HESANDEZ
#3 Areas, soneshat taken aback by RUIZ’ language, pointed out that the
Felationshép betwem the LESR and Cuba is based, above all, on the

highest principles of international friendship, ot yy
» Last Wednesday (29 Jan) a Sovist official, Boris T/AUDENND, visited
took

the Cultural Department end spoke with APARTORT nD Geer
pains to "be a good Conrunist” during this encounter, (This cone

s

a Eel nth” " — veraation ves picked up by GSTRAP) RUDAIND wan algo at’ the hone of
a agen shen Horacio FLOFES Sanchez on the 28th after the Martd havage’ session
ricecteeeeaeet at the Cubdsn Cultural Institute,
oi dhe
te A Bolivian wonan -—- name possibly VILLALBA — was recently at the
‘} Hotel Oxford with 7 children, witing to go to Cuba to jola hav

ie nag fist husband tho works there,@=B deifevew she has gone on to Cuba,

Ae she itt ee
DoF ad d, On 17 January Cuban delecates to the CEPAL Conference visited the”

sy esployees, Cne cf these delegates,
referring to the Nicaro plant in Cuba, said that only 12 engineers
of the original 37 re-atnecd, Of v eae, @ man named (fnu) PRESTLLA
was atill doing an axcelient fob altiouch he is physically in poor

- condition, The iilearo plant specifically, and technicians throughout,
Cuba in gmeral, are t.avinzg a hard tine with the decimal system used
by the Usk tn its technical equipment, The delegates said that
Se Saga CEPA ttiaor marie ret: aia

5 SEGRE

Embassy amt Speke with

‘9 wilZ do a report on the National University <= ;

oe een


the hone of
fl 32 not want to 32

Frbasry.

Sho wns 3
was trying to sail exhit

y Grizen” whieh had

before the goverrnart
Tabelling the {tls as of "inproper 49!

at the gate when the
“sassaior, is latter
Slow said, "T saw tt ith oy
cuvg! mine an it,”

came to the
pyes, Roos 102, She

a film entitied "Twist

filmed in zusla and shown only twice

4 it dowa and provibited future showlnge,

fal tendencies. BEJARANO

at the

said that she planned to stay in Mexico about a week and would also
contact the Soviet and Czech S-barsies in an effort to sell the
{iin anl recoup scee of the cost of producing it, She was told the’
her proposition would be relayed to Hsvana, .

a

hy A young Cuban doctor, vanced Sils

oN TTES, is in Mexico City and

trying to return to Cusa, fe was in the Embassy on 29 Jan and has

been there befor

on 28 Jan

‘The Yarti conneration at the Irstitute/as a big success . A lot

Le
FEL of peste showed
£733 — ,PARTCDD, Gaston VLC, Ernesto 3GJTA Sanchez, and Ermilo ABREU

F348 Oomns.

place, (L=9 sav
in FLORES

33 Sar
Sons reasen uninown to L233
sab Rar

Tne speakers were Ermanetl CARBALLO, Raul

spoys “fd 3

te 4 group of those present went to
CAPBALIO did

2 PERSTRA "Raulito” seemed very interested

Sancher and asked a number of questions about hin. L=¥

says that Fo

k, Saveral days eco #na 22
aptems,

Ryan" seria S34
of the "TL

3 tq a xell known homosexual, (LIENVOY shows that
Raul PFREIRA 1! (33° homosexual)
‘pes bo.

ta ORTEGA do ARANGO cane to visit the
he fad by the brother of the
LEON a» he kaa a dancer. She said she
dorcing atiriiio located at Monte Ararat,

is director

1. At 1330 hows 21 Jan 1

7 Cultural Derartaen

—
ne After Teresa OF

Later on he.spoxe xith Rovello
MRogelio doesn't sem to trust mae"

who got Uired of recetvi

sex deviate (fa.

a

ae tarrtlac, She weasd Like. 0 go

net inzalada, a Honduran, visited the
Fuevia at Pevbla 13 sur 3307-13.
TSUEZ and toldd=afterwards y

cineer Gad uch at the airport has gone on
43 "very correct, does not say much,

, yas seen off at the airport, Oscar CONCEPCION
hai deen fired cn ordare of Frestcent DORTIOOS
reports tat a femous international
cinrtitiera™ internacional) was working at the
red her for “ienoral conduct.”

er oey

pease

at

oe rans ye eeepc:
~ TST A NEON T EEe  Y N


wr

oO

ad

COST aa tmussator t6 bras ides

te

etal » and G
anything done and ually sece
Hycusted,

eed in wessirg

Tz has bern showing hinself to ba quite aggressive
pelitically in staff meetings. io ap;rare to bo a violent ;
partisan of the Castro resint. - ‘

TEAR has been lees agesvagive than before, hae recently bees
seh in the dpe ami has been spending @ lot of tine talking
to tra, YAGHADO, Th= Aabesuador told Ure. MACHADO that MIRABAL
aré Yerican food don't gat along tozether.

“Feitpe ROMS, Mextean enpleyes of tho Cultural Section — who
Hevies distribution of Castro proparnnda to pecple who visit the
Esbacsy <= has been given a desk in the Cultural Section, This mas
earns sbout 5 - 600 pesos per month, La? SATS TRAT MOUS
OOD SE DOWRT ev IS AVAILABLES lia a about 28-30 yeare old.

sumed fron Cuba, There 13 soms talk that

Coty SCLORZAND has
eascat marcy Jesus SOTO, in Cubs, althouch she is much oldere

S00 43 sone sort of Leader == perstps @ labor leader theres

on Suntay 26 Jan a group of Chinesa acrobats paid s courtesy
sisit to the Exbansy, ‘Tee leader of this croup said that Senator
Menuel YOR}

=
yas at the ‘mbasay, She said
a; tha Johasen-Lopes Mats
FOGES, divorced wife of a former
wemeommtry) Dolores said
‘that DLAZ Ordas and Anbasssdor EE EZ Armas ore great friends
dnd that she hed seea an mveloge which DIAZ Cruat sent to the
jad. Sha appeared to be quite upset that Victor RICO Galen bed
fees Grited to Cuba but that the had not, She wants to interlew
Fidel CISTAD again,  HE0GES Ls an Anericen eitizen,tivest

F, w seirmaing chanpiony a
in the Et z Tenant iis plan to swin from Cuba to
Frovida and seb a new world record, APARICIO remried to Cee
that £f they let this nut train a Cuban to rake this svia (es he
te do} it woald protably result in thousands of Cubans doiag
‘sare thing to get out. (LTFHV eked up

0547S)

on Monday 27 Jan Doloras DF Li
she hopes to go to the [S to o
inserriews She cang with Dortshi

Soe yougsters fren a group called the

Becieang” have been trying to astehtisn food contacts
Jhe president ff feastks3k, prone 23-2429 The

sident is Enfer phone 21-17-63, address Aveaida
hn The Subsecretary of
‘ ha

3, Tp 4
3 a2 proof of the

2
ro Hop:

“Sanches would goon be going to Chinte “A 7 :
iz teh

i
b
}
t


> Grtoaa not

extant of t
Lrres'!iatings

know uch abo
tar drshile OONKY, Thie

3, LaF asked B to get hin a book ab:
Yacaillan Company,

beck ts pudltsaed hy itary Muse of
New York, 1987, It wili ba ordered from

, The sseting had to be cut ehert since D tad to fo slemuhere to meet and
Assess) an agent prospect who was planning to leave Moztco City the next mornings
Accordingly, it was agreed thst another nee!ing vow! be held on Tuesday 4 February
at 2000 at the safe apartnent, G-Ywilt be mid Lis anusry salary at that tines

ate ba ute F futon.

mre vine ys ar
