104-10330-10123)

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088.* Fax: (202) 724-0457

“July 27, 1998
# es ee

Mr. J. Barry Harrelson

Chief, JEK Project

Historical Review Program

Office of Information Management
_ Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for

Dear Barry:

Iam writing to update you on the Review Board’s understanding ofthe status of CIA’s
responses to our formal and informal requests for additional information and records
thatthe ARRB Staff has requested pursuant to Section 7(j)(1)(C)(ii) of the President John:
., _F,Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V
© 1994) GEK Act).

We appreciate recent CIA efforts to respond to our outstanding requests. As we have
noted in earlier letters, these requests will be incorporated into the Agency’s final
compliance declaration. As you know, in requesting these materials, we are not
designating them “assassination records” at this time and we are not requesting that
CIA provide copies to the Review Board. As we have noted, all outstanding ARRB
requests for additional information, both formal and informal, were scheduled to be
completed by April 1, 1998. Although the April 1 deadline has passed, the Review.
Board still intends to complete all necessary work on the outstanding requests as soon
as possible. The Review Board is currently in the process of drafting its final report to

_the President and to Congress and it considers the issue of CIA requests for additional
information and records a crucial one. Ata meeting with the Review Board staffon _
July 16, 1998, the CIA made a commitment to complete all but three of the outstanding
requests, formal and informal, by August 1, 1998. Due to Review Board staff
commitmerits, we are willing to extend that deadline to no later than Friday August 7,
1998.

Boarp Memsens: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: T. Jeremy Gunn + Deputy Director: Thomas E. Samoiuk


13-00000

0 Organizational Material

J. Barry Harrelson
July 27, 1998
Page2

The remainder of this letter is divided i
for information and records, and s seco!
records. :

Formal Rejuests

: The Review Board staff has marked these materials for processing as
assassination records and CLA rovi ed a wt response, Pie reqest te
Coinplete::

cia2 through CIAS. a eg
These requests are complete.

CIA% Cables and Dispatches.
This request is complete.

CIA-7 Histories.
Michelle Combs, of the Review Boatd staff, is continuitig to teview the
approximately sixty histories designated for review... The Review Board staff
appreciates the cooperation it has received from HRP in our review of the’

histories. CLA should continue to make the remaining histories available in
consultation with the Review Board.

/CIA-8. Intelligence Community Staff Records.

ieee fae ‘The Review Board first requested rmation on the Intelligence Community

\,

Staff on March 1, 1996. On October 1, 1996, CIA agreed to report on the status of
this request within two weeks. While we understand that this request turned out
to be more difficult and complicated than originally envisioned, this request has
been outstanding for more than'two years. The Review Board has not yet

received any substantive response. This request must be completed by August 7,
1998.

dez/TRO sob \i



13-00000

& He toyeh “Goes
WY Review Board’s tequest. Asa follow up, Review Board has requested that CLA
of names against the Interagency Source Register. The

CIA-11 Sylvia Duran’ 2
“lll This request is. complete.
aD JMWAVE and David Sanchez Morales.

*. On May.22, ‘1996, the Review Board requested access to “all 201 files, personnel
files, Office of Security files, P-files, or any other files” relating to five, persons
ao allegedly connected to JMWAVE. In response to this request, CIA has provided
G o* numerous. records which bp ioaaees located in the Sequestered Collection. Since that
x

“time CIA ided the ity commen a the five individuals: David
Mor. Theodore ioe Weare still awaiting the
She on Ron Cross caine ‘CIA should document its search process

SE ed itten response for the record.

-13 Mexico City Backchannel Communications.
This request is complete.
CIA-14 Mexico City Station Annual Reports.

CIA provided its written response. This request is now complete.


13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson
July 27, 1998
Page 4

CIA-15 Win Scott Files Identified in Rus Ho

This request is complete.

CIA-16 Oswald Pre- Assassination F iN ral ad ae (

ye The Oswald Security File owas released tothe RED ection At the National
A Archives. The Review Board awaits a formal, full, and complete response to this
request. .— ; : <&

Informal Requests”

Each of the following informal, it ferjicatd ‘was. previously made to CIA. hee reference,
they will be referred to by the “Informal Request” (IR) number provided below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).

This request is complete.

This request is complete,
CAS IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.

CIA agreed to undertake a computer.run for all HTLINGUAL documents in
April 1997. The Review Board understands that HRP received:an initial
response. CIA should document all computer searches for these documents and
provide the written response to the Review Board. - This easel must be”
completed by August 7, 7 198. i

We

CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton’s Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to
account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that
: related to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the
# controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton’s files, the Review Board
believes it prudent to obtain from CIA a clear understanding of the types of files
that he maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Board does not


13-00000

‘eview Board ee any additional information in 1 the possession of CIA that
ul explain \ pecarrian of Angleton’s 's files. ‘This Tequest mnust be

Revi ard tndormially siuisidd CLA'to use is contacts to pursue certain
records rélated to Oswald that were orally described to CIA.. The Review Board
pa ved cal ct tn a) da a CIA provided
an update on this request in June 1998: .

CIA-IR-06 ‘QKENCHANT.

The Review Board seeks information regarding the purpose of QhRENCHANT
_ and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan.

v\ £ The Review Board was s provided some information informally by CIA with
: ly regard to this request that we now believe to be incorrect. CIA is now seeking
: additional information to correct or to clarify its previous answers: The Review
Board seeks an immediate, full, and accurate response to'this request. Once CIA
provides its written response, this request will be complete.

“CIA IR-07° Claude Barnés do Capehart

E This request is complete.

08 Unredacted Copy of the “Family Jewels” Memoranda.

~~" “Michelle Combs of the Review Board staff has identified pages from the “Family
Jewels” memoranda for inclusion in the JFK Collection. Review Board has
received confirmation from CIA that these pages will be processed as
assassination records. This request is complete.

CIA-IR-09 George Bush Computer Search.

This request is complete.


13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson
July 27, 1998
Page 6

hei

: SROCIA wil detertnine whether thé 1G’s office main
Co] reports and determine whether the IG’s offic
i of Oswald. Since April 1997, CIA has ha
_Tesponse. This request must be completed

CIAIR-10 IG Report sears

eats

“CIAL TR-11/ Warren Commission Critics.

paamenerrntr

Ww

"y
Public Affairs news Seome Since April 1997, CLA has had no ‘response and
no time frame for a response. This request must be: completed by. August 7, 1998.

ckieh Contacts with Journalists or Publishing Hoiuses.

if The Review Board seeks to determine to what extent, if any,’
attempted to influence any journalists or publishers rega P ion.
y, of the assassination. This request, originally discussed i
~) YV/ ~by the Review Board staff at the DO follow-up bi
not responded has not provided’a time framé for
be. completed by August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-13 Orfice or Person Dealing with Organize Crime and Ciba,
The Review Board requested that CIA make a particular personnel file a ailable.

we The file was made available by CIA for review. by. the Review
OY Review Board staff has marked documents in |

: 3
assassination records. The Review Board has recei confirmation that CIA has :
J” placed these documents in the review process. The Review Board also seeks a
Se full and accurate written response to this request detailing any and all searches

W\

‘To the extent that CIA possesses FOIA files or records on any of these
individuals, and to the extent that those records contain information that is not publicly
available in court records, such records are being requested for review by the Review
Board.


13-00000

a w Board haé for some time s been attempting to determine whether CIA
'“vhhas provided access to all of CIA's surveillance “take” from the Cuban and
Soviet facilities in Mexico City at the time of the Oswald visit and in the
/ . immediate wake of the assassination. Audio surveillance tapes from the period
after the assassination have been identified by CIA and the Review Board staff.
On numerous occasions, the Review Board has asked CIA whether there wasany = __
surveillance take in addition to what is currently in the collection.

997,: ‘the Review Board provided additional leads to CIA to assist
‘questions. The DO has agreed to check Headquarters
file referenced in HMMW 12454, to search for the crypts cited in

‘ and ) Search for HMMA 20307 and other cables or dispatches
7 cited in this ‘document.

ae CIA has provided a partial response to this request and additional specific
questions have been conveyed to HRP by the Review Board.

. .In addition “th Board i is still awaiting a response on the present location of
/ “Staff D records. Regardless of the outcome of these particular searches, the
Review Boatd continues to seek a full accounting for all surveillance conducted
~ during the relevant time periods.

CIAIR-16 0-2 Files.

DS&T has provided a folder title printout of U-2 materials for Review Board
examination and has checked for records filed under Richard Bissell’s name.

6%, Michelle Combs, of the Review Board staff, continues to review these indexes.
The DS&T should continue to search for OSP files.


13-00000

This request is complete.

CIAAR-18 DO Office.

The Review Board has made oral requésts from CIA for information:about a”

©, particular DO office. ‘Since January 1997, and has not
NY ee provided a time frame for a response. e S <
: fo) August'7, 199800 oo ey os ‘

CIA-IR-19 Computer Searches.

-

The Review Board has requested that full computer searches be conducted on all
of the following people and organizations. CIA should document the results of
its searches. Once CIA formally documents its completed searches, the request
will be complete. This request must be completed-by-August 7;.1998. .

4 This request is complete. ae 0

Review Board awaits documentation.

10. Verna Deane Brown Review Board awaits. documentation.

11. George Stanley Brown Review Board awaits documentation.

12. Howard Guebler Review Board awaits documentation. HRP will check for
files.

9. Paul Garbler Review Board awaits documentation.


13-00000

Board requested that the CIA search for monthly
: 1 exile group Directorio Revolucionario
jod 1960-1964 with particular emphasis on
ember 1963. The CIA has provided a response to
reports for December 1962-1964 and the ©
entioned ‘in the DRE records. “A
: \
of Personnel file of Mr. George E. Joannides, the
DRE during the: December 1962 to April 1964 time
he relevant time period have been reviewed by the

This request is complete... :
CIA-IR-23. Watch Committee Files.

This response is complete.


13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson
July:27, 1998
Page 10

CIAAR{24 Defector File.

This s request is. complete,
rare IR: 25, ‘Zapruder iene

(CUA had provided a paita Sal responce otis feet
“William Green” at NPICi in November 1963'and CIA has

complete, CIA should
“.- must be completed by August 1998.“

CIA-IR-26 Jordan James Pfuntnér.
This request is complete.
a Security Files for Five Individuals.
The entire Office of Security ‘filés for Gordon Novel, Jack Ruby, and R
A Case’ Nagel and portions of the Office of Security files for Harold We
Walter Sheridan have been designated assassination records

received:confirmation that these'récords' have been put into’
assassination records. This rene is complete:

CIA-IR-28 McCone Files. :
OS Michelle Combs, of the ARRB staff, has: ae the requested: files and. ~ .

"J tesignated certain records as assassination records. CLA provided confirmation

we that these records have been: put) into processing. This requi comy

IR-29 Oswald Le Winter. —_

This request is complete.


J the Fnglish translation ofthe :
ignate any Pages ae appeaatilation records.

e Dulles calendars for January 1 1959 through
d some pages as assassination records and
“This request i is otherwise complete...

] “) The Review Board’ séeks information regarding the purpose of AMWORLD and
oe ‘ec its conriéction with'the Cuban eiile groups.

The CIA has provided the Review Board its written response to this request.
This a request is compleie

~The Review Board 1 tequiats the Office files of the individuals occupying the
following positions during the period 1959-1964:

— > Ailes of the Office of the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, 1959-1964.
V General Charles Cabell 1953-1962
/ General Marshall Carter 1962-1965


13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson
July 27; 1998
Page 12

f the Office of the Deputy Directo:
. Richard Bissell.1958-1962 vat:
: Richard: ‘Helms 1962-1965: ae.
“the Cinclopeal files of C. Tracy Barnes.1
ferme’ (Office of the General Counsel, Lawrence] lou

©: to be’ completed shortly. "The CIA 'st
-. - orbefore August 7, 1998.

V4
- On April 2, 1998, Michelle Combs of the ‘ARRB staff reviewed the 201 on this
, source. She did not designate any assassination records from the reviewed
§. material. As:a follow- up, the Review Board has requested access to the 201 of
Boris Vladimirovich Zhuravlev, who is also named it jn the document.. The :
“Review Board requests that the records on'the'po > information. Lee.
Harvey:Oswald mentioned in RIF F 104-1015) 10206 be
August 7, 1998.

CIA-IR-36 Handling of cables in 1963.
This response is complete.

CIAIR37 William Pawley. eae

The Review Board requests access to review’ files’ on William. Pawley:and any.:
Wy “files on his possible connection with Cuban exile groups in the 1962-1963 time
frame. The CIA should document its search process. This request must be

y completed by August 7, 1998.


13-00000

J. Barry Harrelson
July 27, 1998.
Page.13

: t pro!
your cooperation and: -assistanice:

Sincerely,

Laura Denk’ :
Executive Director -

ce: - Assassination Records Review Board
Mr. James Oliver
IEsq.

