# 104-10182-10092

## Page 1

104-10182-10092

10

DISPATCH

CLASS -CATION

216K Li

Chief of Station, Santo Domingu

MARIED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING AFOURED

CHIY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

PROA

Chief, restem ilemisphere Division

SUBJECT

Operacional Tersonne I and Security Matters

Mitchell Livingston NER-abLe Ill

ACTION REQUIRED - RIFREENCES

AROFILA

Reference: HDCA-3447

RETURNTO CIA

Action: Paragraphs 1 and 8.

Background Use uny

Do Not Reproduct

In response to the Station's request contained in

reference for information on Mitchell Livingston WER-BELL,

III,

this is to provide the station with some pertinent personal data

on him, and to recommend that the Statien, i.e., Theodore f. KETTNES.

avoid contact with him in operational matters but, to the extent

securely possible, monitor his activities in the area.

Pennsylvania, was

WER-BELL, born on 8 March 1918 in Philadelphia,

sarried in 1942 to Jildegarde Elizabeth

HENNERICI,

and has six children.

he was an Army first lieutenant

which service he saw duty with

when recruited bye uTila Theater during the second half of 1945.

distinction in the China

In 1953 he established his own business, Nitchell Herbell

Relations and Advertising

which went out of business in 1959, due

Company, in Atlanta, Georgia,

to insolvency caused

primarily by his injudicious and unorthodox trade practices.

Subject is well-known to KUBARK, whose officers have

categorized him variously as unscrupulous, a "wheeler-dealer"

a pronoter of grandiose schemes; as

man wic lives beyond

his means; and as a high-pressure advertising and promotion

In the summer of 195y subject offered his services to

KUBARX, claiming knowledge of Cuban and Vosinican affairs.

Although a POA was

Granted on 4 August 1959 for his use as a

source of information on revolutionary activities in the

area, it evolved that the information he provided was

of little value. It was further judged that Subject wished to

Distribution:

2 - COS, Santo Domingo

701-25991°

7 FEB 1964

CROSS REFERENCE TO

COP FISCARD STMBOL NO MUNGER

iDCw- 1193

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

29 January 1964

HOSS FILE NUMBER

201-259910

OFFICE

EXT.

ROUTING

03

Lete Set.

--+

OFFICE SYMBOL

Sidesi.

DATE

OSFICERS MANE

03

mates

T...

DEFEROR !

98" 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

OFFICE SYABOL

0/:.10

E51:9552

OFFICERS SIGNATURE

(40)

175

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DO CLASSIFICATION

LISPATCH SYMAGL AND NUMOCA

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECREI

10G: - 1193

USA KUBARA funds

to promote his personal interests and,

consequently, he was terminated in ictober of 1959.

6.

iith regard to subject's

assertions as reported in

reference, we wish to conment that:

Although we cannot confira of controvert nis

status as vice-president of FINA, in April of 1963 he allowed

, to DOSSVY at dolanta that he was president of Communications

International, Inc.

ODENVY had contacted subject to determine

connection with Dr. Elmer Henry LOUGilli, who

inuided as an unregistered agent of

Maitian Governrent.

while his claim of past KUTWIN service is true.

the degree

uf his friendship with that service's well-known

director remains open to speculation, for there are no

indications that the two were even acouainted.

The nature and extent of his relationship with

many important Central American officials is scored by an

episode which occurred in August-September 1962, wien he tried •

to secure the recognition by several Central American countries

of a Cuban government in exile.

In this undertaking, for

example, he offered a vicaraguan governient spokesman

$100,000 to secure that country"s recognition.

And, in

October of 1962, he reportedly tried, through an interrediary.

to purchase used military aircraft in PBPRIME ostensibly for

ise in the Dominican Kepublic to train Latin American pilots

for a thrust against Cuba.

Lin this October report, Subject

is cited as being

a foruer public relations representative

here for the Trujillo regimea

being investigated oy

Further to the above or his

in cctober of 1962 Subject was

GUENVY

possible involvonent in

1959 in the shipping of arms to Ecuauor.

The above salient features as to subject's background,

should be sufficient to discourage any operational use of

subject, and to indicate the need for caution on tiltin's

part should he have any further contact with him.

tine, deadquarters considers that information on subject'

local activities and contacts, as could affect ODYOke interests,

should be reported as such becomes kaown to the Station.

OLIVER G. FALBOND

7 FED 1964

PAGENO.

500 530

140)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CONTINUED

most

---

