104-10103-10128)

BRAND
November 15/60

On_ August 5/60, at 7 ea.m., Brand made contact with Brand
told that he wanted to see Amparo (Plinio's wife), in order to debrief her

on the actual situation of OA's groups. That same afternoon Brand saw Auparoe.
Amparo informed Brand of all the arrests that had taken place after Plinio's
escape from El Escambray. In regard to OA's groups in Havana, Amparo told Zrand
that Efren Rodriguez, member of the Executive Commitee of the OA,wag in a safe
houss in Havana, and was the man who could brisf Brand on QA's situation.

On August 6/60, Brand saw Efren Rodriguez. Zfren informed Brand that, on
account of Abay and Pensla's asylum at the Embassy of Brasil, contacts had been
lost with the action groups of OA. Efren was completely out of monsy. Brand gave
him $130.00 and instructed him to establish contact with OA's action groups. Efr
agreed to do this.

Brand had to remain in his safe house for the next ten days, because no glue
or moustaches had heen sent to him, and he had no materials for his disguise.
Meanwhile, Plinio had arrived to Havana, and had established contact with Efren
and_other members of the underground.
gave Brand a man to be used as a driver or as a cut-out.
This man 13 named Nontes. After receiving the disguise materials, Brand establis.
contact with Jesus Izlesias, former member of Triple A, and Brand's fellow consp
for many years. Iglesias owned a 50 ft. yacht. Brand asked Izglesia's help to use
his yacht to smuggle weapons into Gubae Iglesias was in very low spirits. He sai
that it was useless for the cubans to fight Fidel, since Fidel had a powerful ba
from the Soviet Union, and that unless the U.S. decided to do something about it
our efforts were doomed to failure. In short, Iglesias refused to help.

Next, Brand established contact with Cesar Lancis Bravo. Cesar agreed to help
Brand instructed Cesar to start looking for D.Zs. and L.2s. Besides, Cesar was t
start organizing laborers in the different Unions, and to try to gather inforrat:
from all of them. Cesar also volunteered to make contacts with policemen in the
patrol cars, in order to find out the codes they were using in their radio
communications. He-also promised to ftart a search for safe houses and store hou
and to start checking Fidel through the members of the Sindicato Gastronomica.. I:
that first meeting, Brand gave Cesar \one thousand PESOS, to be used for expenses
for the renting of houses.

Next, Brand mad@contact with Benito Fernandez. Benito said that he was eager
help and that all of us had to give dur best to overcome our country's situation
Benito offered his efforts to try fo; find D.Zs. and L.Zs. Besides, he volunteere:
to do some recruiting. Benito informed Brand that he fad an action group of abou
fifteen men, already armed.

Contact was made with Dr, Helio Nardo Baez. Nardo informed brand that he had
already been aproached by people fron MAR and By Lomberto Diaz, acting the latte:
as representative from Tony Varona's| group: Nardo had refused to work with them.
Brand asked Nardo to taks care of tht Province of Pinar del Rio as a leader of a
new underground group, of which he wis going to be one of the leadsrs. Nardo agr.
to this, and prowised to start lookiag for D.Zs. and L.2Zs.. and alse promised to
teke care of the recruiting of peope/in the Province of Pinar del Rio. He wentior
thet he had a friend who had been a jieutsnent in the rebel army, and who had qui
his position because of the communi st tendencies of the Goternment. He told Gran
that this ex-lieutenent could become ja valuable asset if won to our side. He sai
he was going to try to bring this may to talk with Srand. brand gave Nardo five

pes@a, for expenses. i

i



Bee"

_ Willing to work with him, though soms of them already belonged to Rescate. He ha

cr _ C1

~2-

At the first meeting with denito Fernandez, Brand also saw Nelson Iglesias,
University student, and son of Jesus Iglesias. Brand instructed Nelson to start
making some recruitings at the University. Brand also instructed Nelson Iglesi:
to make the necessary arrangements so Brand could have a meeting with Jose: Fer:
Planas and Eddy Crews, members of the Catholic Youth, students at the Universit:
Havana and members ot MRR (Artime's faction). Brand gave Nelson one hundred pe:
for expenses.

A week after their first meeting, Brand sew Cesar Lancis again. Cesar said
had been making some contactawith different unions. He also exolained that up t
that time he had been working with Tony Varona's group; named “Rescate”. He exp!
his concern gbout the double role he was playing, working with Rescate at the s
tims that he/W8?king with Brand. Lancis said that in due course he could bring
friends in Rescate to Brand's organization. Brand said that a week had elapsed.
no results had been attained and that he wanted results. Lancia said that he wa
going to have results for the next meeting.

Through Nelson Iglesias, Brand had a meeting with Jose Ferriandez Planas and
Eddy Crews. The meeting took place at Fernan: Plana’s home in Vedado, Havana.
Brant asked Fernandez Plana's help in order et D.Zs. and L.Zs, and safe: : hot
Though Fernandez Planas agreed to help, he was a little bit reluctant because a:
connections with MaR. He said he was going to talk things over with his. friends
promised to give ms an answer in a few days. Nevertheless, he accepted four hund|
pesos to be used in the renting of safe houses. Brand also asked about the possi
of creating some disturbances at Havana University on the 30th of September,
anniversary of Trejo's death.They said their chances were slight, because they
could not burn the people they had at the University in that kind of action. He
said that in the event of a riot at the University, they would be crushed by the’
communists and militia, already well trained, equipped and organized.

In his next mesting with Brand, Nardo brought along a man by: the name of _
Francisco Robayna Dominguez, ex-lieutenent of the Rebel Army. Robayna had: been a
member of the American Army, at Fort Dix, New Jersey. He had been to Europe. as al =
member of the American Army. He deserted.to go to Cuba and join the forces. fight: 4
Batista. He became a member of Faure Choton's guertillas in the mountains of Las | }
Villas. Robayna said that he was willing to join Nardo and Brand's efforts. He 3
that he had already been working in the recruiting of people. He assured: Brand +!
he could count-with a force of 150 men. He also said that he was going to get D.
Robayna was to work under the orders of Nardo. °

In his next meeting with Brand, Fernandez Planas returned the four hundred p
he had previously received. He said he could not take care of the renting of saft
houses, because the people they could use for that, were needed at the MRR. Neve:
since Brand had promised hin weapons, he said he would keep trying to get DoZs.
L.Z8. Ho said he wanted to see Brand again. :

Benito Fernandez saw Brand again. He said that he had talked with his brother,
who had been a Mayor in Santiago de Cuba. He had also talked with Luis Casero Gi
who had also been a Mayor in Santiago de Cuba. They both promised him to start
searching for DeZs. and L,Zs, in the southern coast of the Province of Orient&

Brand also saw Nelson Iglesias again. He said it had been diffictlt to reer
people at the University, because everyone seemed te belone already to one orga
or another. Nevertheless, he said, he had a group of around ten students who wer:

itt contact -with a voy named Solis, who was heading Rescate's group at the Univer:
Around these days, Joo, a member of the Company whom Brand had met in Washi n;
cane to visit Brand af Brand's safehouse. He said that they wereri't interested
anymore in getting people out of Cuba to be properly trained. He promised to. ziv
Brand some contacts which would help Brand in his ‘activities. Thess promises wer,
kept, and Brand made some contacts which will be referred to in dus course.


on the Government forces in Isle of Pines. Rutilio Ramos also

| ieee c

Brand had been asking to see Plinio. Plinio also had been asking to see Sran|
Amparo knew about one of, Brand's safehouses. She cane one day and told Erand +)
Plinio needed to see him. Next day, Brand went’ to see Plinios At Plinio's safe
Brand also met a man named Juan Mendez, also known as Seorze the Pilot or Jose
Casanova. Mendez was the head of o group named MAR (Movimiento Anticomunista Re
cionario). Plinio told Brand of his efforte and how pleased he was with the way
things wers going on. Plinio also talked about-hia plans for the inmediate fut:
and ths meetings he was expe&ting to have in the days to come. In return, Brand
eaid that he was also pleasedwith the way things were developing.

In his next meeting with Brand, Robayna brought a map pointing out a D.Z, -T
was the first D.Z. that Brand got. Brand gave Robayra a lensatic compass so Rob
could give the exact location of the next D.2s. he was trying to cet.Roabayna wad
full of enthusiasm with the outcome of his efforts. All his men were anxious to
into battle. Robayna gave Brand an estimate of the weapons he needed for his 150
That list of weapons was given to the Company in Havana. Robayna also informed 4

that in the Province of Pinar del Rio, a majority of the population was in favo:
an uprising against Castro. . 7

--- It should be said by now that all the meetingsheld by Brand were reported tol
the Company in Havana, alnost inmediately after they took place. Brand had been
instructed in Washington to give g report each weeke Actually, resorts were give
in many oc@@sions twice and thrice a week. —=

By this time, Brand had met with fren Rodriguez in several occeastens..Efren
Rodriguez was contacting and organizing action groups to be used in Havana, in t)
6ity as well as in the Province. A man by the name of Rutilio Ramos had been co!
by him. This man was to lead the men we were planning to use in an attempt ag
Fidel's life. ifren Rodriguez had also met people who gave him detailed

made some reports
this. Contacts were made by Efren Rodriguez with action Sroups in San Jose de La:
Lajas, :

Joe sent Brand some instructions that enabled Brand to make contact with a mai :
named Alberto Jorge Losada Fernandez, who worked at the Compania de Electricidad.
This Losada was one of the leaders of an organization called "Resistencia Agramoi
Though they had: men all around the island, their mdn force seemed to be in the
Province of Pinar del Rios And what seemed most important of all, they had a gro
of fifty men already in the mountains in Pinar del Rio, in:a place named Rio Hon
In the first meeting with Losada, Brand gave him 500 pesos to be used in the ;
purchase of supplies for the men already in the mountains. Brand also instructed |
Losada to try to organize groups at the Compania de Electricidad. These groups we
to be used in sabotage atthe Electric Company. Losada agreed to send word to the
leader of the group at the mountains to come to Havana to have a meeting with B)
Losada also agreed to try to find some DeZs. or L.Zse~From that day on, Losada‘d
the meetings with Brand would take place in two houses he indicated, and which
Brand promptly aporoved. . 7

Joe sent Brand some instructions that enabled Brand to make contact with aman
named Vidal Morales, who was to provide the goons that were promised to Brand by
Jim Bowdin. Brand instructed Vidal to organize his men and have them ready for
action to be used when required. Brand also instructed Vidal to start checking
Garlos Rafael Rodriguez, a well known communist, and also to give all the inform
he could gather about the top communists:in Cuba. Vidal agreed to this.

In a meeting with Losada, he informed Brand that the leader of the group at
Rio Hondo, a man by the name of Lazaro Santos Abrou, had been killed in his way ty
Havana to see Erand. Brand then told Losada to make arrangements 30 Brand could
have a meeting with the man whes had substituted Lazaro Santos.

Brand had a mesting with Cesar Lancis and Losada, so both men would get in tou]:

ANA wavle tavathas f= 277 41



Barrios. Brand met. Barrios and introduced him to Robaynae From then on, Barrios

C oe

instructed Losada not to talk with Lancis about the people in the mountains. H,
to talk with Lancis only about the laborers at the Electric Company, because
wanted Lancis to organize the labor section of Cuba Libre.

In his next meeting with Brand, Lancis refused to have anything to do with
He gave Brand a written report about Losada and Losada's brother, also working
Electric Company. The report said that Losada had been a well known batistiano
that he had been suspected of being an informer for Batista's security forces.

question. Lancis informed Brand that a former major ot the aray, named Manuel d
Jesus Hernandez, had been commisioned by Lancis to establish a net of informers}:
Lancis also said that he had received several thousand pesos from Rescate and t!
he was willing to returns the thousand pesos that Brand had given him. To this
Brand answered nothing. :

Around the Titteshth of September, Brand thought he had noticed certain .unu:
things around Potin!s building, where Brand's safchouse was located. One day, a
when Brand was entering the building, he heard a man asking about the people wi
living at the penthouse of the building. This confirmed Brand's suspicions than
something wrong was going on. Brand left the building and never came back. It w
until three weeks later that Brand found out, through Augusto Casamayor;, the
who had provided the safe house, that a tennant of the penthouse,;who lived in f;
of Brand's apartment, had been the victim of enextortion. This had been the unu:
atmosphere that Brand had noticed around the building, because that tennant hady
under surveillance by the people who submitted him to extortion.

Brand went to live for some days at Juan Mendez's place, At this’ safehouse,
met a man named Jorge Zapino, who worked with Mendez at MAR. Brand put Espino i.
contact with Nardo» so Espino's people in Pinar del Rio: woiddwork under the gua,
of Robaynae Espino's military chief in Pinar del Rio was @ young man by the nama

in contact with Robayna, and working under his commands

Around these days, Brand heard that Mendez was. going to have an interview wit!
Priest named Las Heras. Brand went to that meeting and asked this priest to go t
Artemisa, in the Province of Pinar del Rio, and contact Nardo, so he would provi:
Nardo with all the help that the priesthood could afford to give in the province
Pinar del Rio. Brand saws Nardo and arrangements were made in such a way that Na
did see Father Las Heras. From then on, it was their buaiheas to keep in touch.
At the meting with Father Las Heras, Brand met a physician named Dr. Leon Lemus
identified himself as a delegate from Organi zacion Occidental Anticomunista (O0A
A few days later, Brand introduced Nardo to Dr. Leon Gemus, so Leon would help Ni
in the Province of Pinar del Rio. Later on, Brand introduced Leon Lemus to Roba:
00a's military chief in the Province of Pinar del Rio was a young man named Cruz
This Cruz Blanco was introduced to Robayna by Leon Lemis. From ‘then en, Cruz Bla:
was to work under the orders of Robaynae It is on account of all these contacts
wers given te Robayna, that in the last message that Robayna sent to Brand thro
Nardo, he claimed to have six hundred men under his command. And he said that th:
Was a conservative figure. Nardo commented that in order to makethis figure nor
conservative, he would say that Robayna had five hundred men under his command.
figure is accepted by Brand aa food, :

Fa



- years. This man's name is Simon Yabree Simon Yabre was to put Brand in contact wif

: ag : “a= i ©

By the first days of September Brand had met Dr. Rodolfo Henri ez Lauranzon,|
a well known Cuban dentist. This dentist lent his house many times so that it cof
be used for Brand's meetings with Benito Fernandez. Brand also used Henriquez, as|
treasurer, Whenever Brand received money from the Company, he took it to Henrique
in order to avoid a heavy loss of money if Brand was capturede In one of the mee
with Benito Fernandez, Brand met a man named Jose Caba¥ftt,-who had been a stockh
at the Cooperativa de Omnibus Aliados. This Cabafas had hundreds of friends anton
drivers and conductors of busses in Havana. Cabaflas promised to get safehouses a!
storehouses. He also promised to organize groups among the drivers and conductor]
Havana. He also said that he was going to give Brand a driver. Brand gave Cabana
620 pesos, :
A few days later Brand met Luis Alvarez, a former bus d: . 2 i
became Brand's driver. This Luis Alvarez had been vocoumensed Re oRehee Brbee
be a courageous, dedicated and faithful companions
In a new meeting with Jose Fernandez Planas, Brand met a young. physician know!
Anselmo. In this meeting they said they had found a DeZ. and that they were gol:
give Brand a map pointing out the exact location of the place. They asked which
weapons could Brand provide. Brand mentioned all the weapons he hecHad been prom
and commited himself to deliver certain amount of those weapons fifteen days aft:
the map had reached his hands, The boys promised to give the map in short notice
Those boys also wanted to establish contact with Brand's people in Pinar del Rio
Some days later Brand received a very detailed map of a L.Z. in the southern
coast of the Province of Pinar del Rio. It was’ sent to the Company right away. ~
By this time Robaynas. had sent Brand the location of another D.Z. By then .,. Rd
kept asking about the weapons, and he kept saying that his men were anxious to r.

the: equipment and s: tinge .
Through| Brand met an American known as William Webster. This
was to put Bri n contact with a group of a friend of Brand who had gone to Nig

"named Mario Massip. Through Webster, Brand met a man already known to him for many

Mario Massip's group. By this time Brand had becom 4 uneasy about the
lack of new, and kept skin out the deliverd
of weapon tons answered ew nothing about it, that
always delivered my reports but could not tell me what the policies of the Compa
were in that respect. - i ear ee
Through Webster, Brand made contact with a wealthy and very well known cuban
Silvio de Cardenas. Silvio de Cardenas said that he was ‘one of the leaders of a
headed by Jose Ignacio Rivero and Antonio Rubio Padilla. He said,-and Brand belid
to.be the exact truth, that they had connections along the whole island with well
known and respected people. That they could provide fincaés and transportation, All:
they wanted was weapons and guidance. Brand promised both. Through the Company, g
“days later, Silvio de Cardenas provided two DeZs. Brand. met Silvio de Cardenas fa
five times. more. Cardenas gave a list of the weapons his friends needed. Brand ed
himself to deliver the weapons in due courses ~ a cae
One day Brand got. word that there was going to be a meeting at Plinio's safeha
People from the Front:were supposed to go to that meeting. Brand was invited to
Brand sent word saying he saw no reason why:he had to. @o that meeting, but Plinio
insisted on Brand's attendancé. Brand went to the meet: nge ‘There he saw Plinio,
Efren Rodriguez, Jorge Espino, Francisco Santiago,- Juan Mendez and Joe. Plans wei
set to coordinate the OA and the Front's efforts to help Plinio in the mountains.}
It was established also that Brand would coordinate his men in-Pinar del Rio witht

~the men vides
~~ Through! Brand met a’man named Alfredo Izazuirre Rivas.
told Bran een trained in sabotage and that he had around 204

organized in the City and Province of Havana. Brand told him that in due cours®
Weapons and sabotage and incendiary materials would be provided and that all Izag
had to do was to keep their men organized and ready to enter into action when req

sence



.in September Brand kept asking Jim to.send Karl to Cuba. Brand wanted to be dig,

er Sinitiniies _

By this time, Brand had met a man kmown as Roberto Alvarez, who had a red je

and who said he had’ been trained in intelligence work, and that he hi en in
for several years. This man was introduced to Brand aS q
was to help Brand in anything Brand would require of him. Erand fo' ‘t Robe}

was available only after 5 peme and on Saturdays and Sundayse Brand found this #
Alvarez to be a sensible, educated and calmed individual. Brand told this man t#
he would fini something for him to do. 7

Cabafias had given by now four safchouses. These safehouses were already inhaf
but the families living there were to receive anyone in. needdof a safehouse. Inf
of those houses Brand lived for two weeks. Another of those houses was used as
safehouse for meetings.

Through Cabanas and Benito Fernandez, Brand met a man named Oscar Rodriguez.
This man claimed to be one of the leaders: of an organizations in the Province o:
Oriente. They were willing to work provided. they were. supplied with weapons. Br;
found the man to be honest, but dumb and unexperienced. Nevertheless, Brand ins
~- this man to keep in touch with Cabafias.

By this time, Brand had: become a little bit uneasy about his dt sguise. During|
Blike Alsiepnod around town, Brand had met by chance with many old friends, Nonef-
them recognized Brand. One day, however, a boy named Nodal, member of Triple a,
saw. Brand-in a drugstore and recognized hims. When Brana. went out, Brand noticed
that two men in a car were: watching him. The car went around the block and -star
to follow.Brand. When the car apvroached Brand saw Nodal and S$!
member of Triple A. Silvio called Brand and insisted on having
Brand was mad to see how irresponsible and indiscreet these fellowa wore. Brand
them an appointment, but’ Brand didn't attend to it. Brand had become uneasy abo
the disguise because, although B,was using a second hairpiecs, it looked awfull:
bad, and many friends had warned. Brand that the hairplece looked a fale from a
afar. They also said that the moustache looked teo dark. Brand's conclusion abo
this is what follows:lfhe disguise was very good, but hairpieces: don't last long
in Ouba's climate. If one wears them daily, as Brand did, they are: not good for’
more than twelve or fifteen days. 2) The disguise was good as long as it made 5;
a different man, but it was bad because it had too distinctive features, that i
that if the police radioed a description of a man with vory dark hair, very dar!
moustache, and a pair of somehow unusual glasses, it is dur¢.eneugh that Brand
going to be caught, It is Brand's opinion that if a man iste wear a disguise f
along period of time, this disguise should not have distinctive features. Its]
be difficult to describe the man in disguise, This is why from the very first 4

ina different way. Another thing about disguises: the person in disguise shoul
always have enough materials at hand.In many occasionssthe replacements for mou:
took too long to arrive to Cuba. The last ten moustaghes were rsceived in very |:
shape and were so bad that Brand thought they had not been made by Karl, or tha

Karl had made them in a hurrye

By this time Brand had already met Mario Escoto a known conspirator and old

friend of Brand. Esceto was Aureliano's representative.in Cuba, and-the manzin

charge of Triple A. Brand offered weapons. to Escoto, provided Escoto zave DeZse
Escoto said he had to consult this with Aureliano, but neveéftheleas, he said ‘t!
was going to send Brand a map with the exact location ¢ tue a D.Z. Brand also offex

that he had been provided with’ all ‘the money he needed a his activities. : .

By this time, Brand had notified the Company that all his men were to. work
the name of "Cuba Libre", and that this Organization was going to be ne
Benito Fernandez, Jose Cabafias, Helio Nardo, Alfredo Izaguirre, and 5 Brai

—



Through Vidal Morales, Brand met a man named Jaime Gomila Perez. Gomila was one
ot the lsaders at the Union Vinatera Nacional, an association of wine intustrialis€
Brand saw Gomila three times. Somila offered to get the defection of the Under Sec# ©
of the Treasury (Subsecretario de Hacienda), Dr. Israel Rodriguez. He also said tha:
he could get. the defection of one of the members of the Supreme Court, whose name
Brand doas not remember now. Gonila also said. Gomila had also made contacts with
Captain of the army, stationed in Santiago, named Quintana Mena. This captain had
a uember of the G-2 and he wanted to cooperate with the forces fighting Castro. Bre
instructed Gomila to get intelligence reports from this Captain, and also from the
Subsecretario de Hacienda and from the Member of tne Supreme Court. Gomila went tof
Santiago de Cuba to see the Captain, but Brand does not know the oucome of their
meeting, because Brand didn't see Gomila againe : : q

One day Brand went to Fernandez Plana's house to have a meeting with the milita:
chief of the Frottin the Province of Pinar del Rio. Brand felt-he had noticed some
surveillance around the placs. When Brand told this to Fernandez Plana.and his fri
they adopted a somewhat we-don't-believe-in-ghosts attitude. They told Brand that
were going to see the man from Pinar del Rio in a different place. They offered
transportation fap Brand. Brand went with Anselmo, whose car was parked in front of”
Fernandez Plana's house. After Anselmo had been driving for a while, Brand asked
ig he was looking throuzh the rear mirror, to see if they had been followed. A few
seconds after this remark, Anselmo said that a car was after them. Brani theniinst:
Anselmo not to go to the meeting place. They began driving around. town, and the ca:
kept after them. Finally they went to Calixto Garcia's Hospital. Brand went into a
building, took off his moustache and glasses and went out by the same door he had
to come in. The men who had been following them were there, but it seems they didn|
recognized Brand, who walked away. oo

Around these days, while Brand was going to a meeting, he saw in the streets anf™
friend of his, Pancho Varona, a fellow conspirator against Batista. Brand intited
to2come into the car. They talked for a few minutes and set a date and place for a
meeting. Three days after that, Varona met Brand. Varona informed Brand that a few
days before an airplane had dropped equipment at 21 Escambray, and that the equipml
had been caught by Fidel's forces. Brand asked some D.Zs. from Varona. Varona pro
to get. them, but. he looked quits skentical about many things. 3rand told him.

The next time Brand saw Benito Fernandez, he said that Plinio's mother had visi:
him, quite nervous, saying that his son had been captured at 21 Escambray. Benito
her that that was not true. aE :

Prior to this meeting, Benito Fernandez had introduced “to Brang two friends of
named Enrique Barroso, and another young man by the name of Cruze they identified
themselves as friends of Nino Diaz. Brand offered them help, and asked them to cool
thelr efforts with Brand in the province of Pinar del Rios They said that they had
talk those things with Nino Diaz before making any deffnite arrangement. They sai:
Cruz was going to Miami to see Nino Diag. They wanted Brand to establish bona fidq
Nino Diaz so hei+ might trust Brand. Brand sent a flash to Jim Bowdin, asking him

establish Brand's bona fide with Nino Diaz. Many days passed by, and Brand was, no
able to continue negotiations, because no answer ever came from Jim Bowdin or any
member of the Company. Prior to this meeting with Barroso and Cruz, Brand had had
a first meeting with Barroso. Benito Fernandez knew that Barroso and Cruz had ms

“Through Losada, Brand met a man named Juan Tabranes. This man Tabranes
tie leaders of"Resistencia Agramonte". Losada‘had informed him of his deal:
inform a man named Rossel, who is living in the United States. Tabranes looked wi
to come to an agreement with Brand. :

hidden weapons in Havana. :
Brand. He said that in order-to get a final agreement vith “Cuba Libre", he hal 3


eived information through Cabanas of the frequent c
assy of Checoeslovaquia. Ye tried but could not ren
house acroos the street. Srand had instructed Roberto Alvarez to make a plan for
casing of the place and also for the killing. The handa of the prof/essional could
seen in the instructions given by Roberto Alvarez. At last, we got word that Rau
Gastro was going to live in Crients, and since we were not af} to rent the house

the plan was dropped.

In his last me> ith Brand, Cesar Lancis had informed him of the possibili
of killing Fidel at the National Hotel, where he used to go to have dinner with ti
employes. This was also told to Roberto Alvarez, who began thinking about plana!
regarding the National Hotel and Pekin Restaurant.

Rumors began to.spread around town that Plinio hed been captured somewhere near
81 Escambray mountains.

Meanwhile, Cabafas had seen Brand several times, and had informed him ot the
recruitings he had made for Cuba Libre among the drivers and conductors of Cooperad
de Cunibus Aliados. .

Finally, the newspapers in town published some pictures of Plinio Prieto after
capture near £1 Escambray. The summary trials began. The day before the execution,
is, the llth of ostoter,|_|oabe to see Erand. He informed Brand tha

= are

Juan Mendez'and some othér-g ToOLng to start shooting around town in order
ple was against the executions, and on the

grove the Gove: the Cuban 2.
of the rebels sked
around town. SFand ai SECT he had no men available for that.

rand how many men could he ci
asked if Brand had any men available tat inio. Bran mn
could give armed men for that puroose also asked about Brand's
possibilities in men to help in an attempt against Fidel's life at Mulgoba. Brand

answered that he could give armed men for that action.The "we-must-do-something" a
("tenemos que hacer also"), is the worst thing that can happen in a conspiracy. ih
Brand realized that all the lesders in the different zroups wanted to start shooti
without plans or any definite purpose, Brand began to have strong doubts about the
seriousness or coordination of the efforts that were under way.

After Plinio's execution, morals came to an all time low. Brand instructed Cabal
to start sabotage on the busses in Havana. Brand sent a flash % insisti|
on the urgency of receiving incendiary and demolition materials. No answer. In the |
between the 17th and the 24th of October, more than one hundred busses were damazed
Havana by pouring starch or emery in the radiators.

Benito Fernandez had informed Brand that Guide Gonzalez Bustamante had seen Beni
and had inguired about Brand's whereabouts. Benito said that Brand was out of Cuba.
Guido then said that Miguel Isa Fresneda, a former friend of Srand and presently
holding a high position at the Ministerio de Gobernacion, had informed Guido that 2]
was in Havana, under disguise, and offering money and weapons to different undergro|
organizations. Isa's son in law, named Nelson Barroso, was a member of the Judicial)
Police in Cubs.

Meanwhile, Naflo Alonso, former member of the Army, and present member of the Fro
in the Province of Pinar del Rio,had sent a message to Dr. Nardo. In, that message +
Nardo, Alonso said: "Tt is a shams that you refused to work with us at the Front, a
have permitted’ &s" 8S"deceived by the man of the hairpiece and the dyed moustache",
answered saying that he had known the man of the hairpicce for many years, and that
man never tried to deceive anyones a
Brand had never contacted or sent messages either to Nafo Alonso or to Miguel In:
sneda.

One afternoon, around the 16th of October, while Brand-was in a car driven by
Fifa Portuzal, a woman employse of the Slectric Company, Brand noticed that three
gat him. The patrol car went ahead

By thio time, Brand
of Raul Raul Castro to +t

policeman in a patrolcar were insistently sturi

and's car, and since Zrand was near hia safshouse, he sof out of the car. when fr


looked at Brand and speeded up the car wound ths blocke Before thay could zest to
Brand, Brand had entered into his safehouse, at Hotel Vista Al
Next day, Brand went to ons of his safehouses to try to make an appointment with

This safehouse was very well located, but Srand never liked the

Way in WALCH Fonte, a cuban employee of the Comp@ay, had built up the cover for th
safehouse. When Brand reached this apartment, he found that it had been sealed by
the Sovernment, as it had been done with hundreds of empty .apavtments in the city.
That didn't prove anything, except_that the cover had not been well built up.

Brand made an appointment with Both started walking around the|
city for about two hours. Brand told [that he had decided to discontinue oper
and come to Washington to see
Brand then went to see Alfredo Izaguirre, and stayed at his place for a week. I
2 meantime, and through Izazguirre's friendgat the fmbassy, Brand sent a flash to

informig him of Brand's decision to discontinus overations. At the ond
co} hat week, Alfredo Izaguirre returned home ons night quite upset and told Brand
that it was better for him to go to live somewhere elas. u

Through Benito Fernandez, Brand made contact with a very well known physician ni
Dr. Bernardo Milanes. Though Brand had dscided to discontinus opsrations, he recrutl
Dr. Milanes, who was willing to bring a-group of about 30 of his fellow physicians
to work with Cuba Libres oe

But then, Benito Fernandez came to see Brand and told him that Nino Diaz was in
Santiago, making contacts with different groups. Since Brand had been told by Alfr:
Izazuirre that he, Izaguirre, had been aporoached by Major Humberto i
ae have thres other majors willing to revolt
decided inmediately to go to Oriente and try to put Nino Diaz in contact with Sori
Marin, because Sori Marin had also stated that he had _500 msn, and that Ke could
“control 14 ldlometers off the southern coast in Orientee Brand wdnt to see Izaguirr
and asked him to establish contact with Sori Marin and tell him that Brand wanted
see him, cither in Havana or in Criente?TZazuirre then told Brand, quite bluntly,
that his friends at the Embassy didn't know who Brand was, and had advised him to
discontinue his contacts with Brand until they could find out who Bran was. Brand
left Izaguirre's house in a rages Ten days had elapsed from ths day Brand sent the
flash tof and, nevertheless, Izaguirre's friends at the Embassy didn't
know and had not been able to find out, who Brand was. :

Brand then went to see to inguire about the Company's preparati
to take Brand out of the cOUNtYFY. sata that he had not received an answer on
but that they, the people from ths Uompany, had sent py 5000 pesos.

Benito Fernandez brought Brand a very detailed map pointing out a Del» at or ne
La Gobernadora, in the northern coast of Pinar del Rio. The map was sent to the
Company right away. Cabaffas informed Brand that steps had been takén to produce
sabotage at the main Cigar Factories in Havana.

Brand then saw Nardo for the last time. Nardo was highly pleased with the way
things were going on in the Province of Pinar del Rio, though he informed Brand thi
Robayna was in despair because he had not received the weapons that had been promi
to hin. - :

Contact were wade by Brand which eventually produced his departure from the
countrys
By this time, the hairpiece looked awfully bade Almost no gluse was left, and
last moustaches that had been sent to Brand had each hair pointing in a differen
rections :

