rod-10163-10731

Chief, KUSODA

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

15349 /0 1

UFGA =

Action: None Required

1. Forwarded herewith (RYBAT) for the following LCFLUTTER
reports with below list of IRD numbers and, if available, 201
mumbers with cryptonyms:

IRD NUMBERS 201 NUMBERS CRYPT
\ 5893: : ¢ ) ¢ )
66810 a (2516839) CAMCLATTER/1)
66812 ¢ ) (AMISLE/3)
4 2 at enemas
66816 ¢€308739) tAMOT/132)
66817 289938) (AMSNAP/4)
, -,., 66828 ¢ )
: : « ) (291237) (AMWOO/1)
2, Identities of the above reports. are forwarded a8:
_ separate cover attachment,
. ae END OF DISPATCH
i ee
: Attachments: —_
| ‘A. Reports (RYBAT) . iq
a B, Tdentities (RYBAT)
H Distribution: Eeeeereeeeae creer Fe eee a
2 = KUSCDA wate A-9 h/w; B/1-9, “u/s/e :
10 = SAS w/o atte. |
Gorasv6LF

sy creat
Sits Te 201+
2099905 701-291237

| : tit — ty | WR 26 ‘64 |
EL.
i

ie


7 , : BRGAS 15349701

Opal lin st
ie # 63810 P iv
1G April 1964

Subject: Iden A

Subjeot was interviewed and tested on 16 April 1964 at & :
eafo site in the Miani aron st the request of Nonry P.
REBHOLTZ, The interview was conducted in Kaclish.

|
Subject bas beon involved with KUBAK’: since 1959, Fera .° H
peried previous to that tixe Subjoct was cooperating with ODENVY
in Cuba. le is currently being weed by P¥ as a source of informe
tion om the Cuban exile Community. The excuse for testing Subject :
Was that he was being cousiderod Icr training. The actual purpose H
of the interview wae to resolve issues raised by JMWAVE/KUDESK
which are detailed im WAVE 2672, dated 26 Pebruary 1964.

i

RESULYS

Sabject hes worked only for KUBAKK and ODENVY, He has never
Geoperated in say with any tntellizence service of any other

Fr beea asked to cooperate with any counanist if

ecatrolled intolligence-servioc, He deca me: make intelligence 7

type reports to any one Gther thaa ODYOKZ, Subject bas mo {

8: Coumunioation with anyone outside PHPRIIZ, He is net
‘oa with anyone whow he suspoets of being a Cabem agent,
He bas sever takem part in any ceununist astivity,

PERALLS

Subject stated that it ts widely inown among the Cuben exile
Comenity that he ts in teueh with KUBARK, Tue fact that this is
Amows is partly what enables his to obtain information whieh is of
interest to KUDARK, Subject tated that ue sere thas feur or five

by ohe-peeal know of bis invelveaent with KUBARK, Among them io
jen B,

Subject was asked whether be ecacunicated in any way with
isdivicuale living outeide of PRELINZ, He stated that the ealy
fadivideal in tnat catexory vas a foravr Cuben CIC ecuber by the
Heme ef Iden C whe presently works for the Alliance fer Precress.
iéss C 1s now wsiieved ts be ia Headuran. Subject stated that hie
Wife eoummicates with hor fasily in Cuba but. Subject stated that

aH be fis Lrethpat ahe deos not dinewer any of his setivities is these
CRS.

Subject stated that his wife in fskly imovledgeable of hie
KOBARK activities.

with any of the exile orgenizaticas. We atatod thst im the (ermal
sense ef the word he had no such axrecnest bat that he was idealoaieally
Samitied to AibILOY/1 and the AMVURLD organization. Sebfeet states

BASIS DOCUMENT $19 IM_Bos- PAS"OP, fs co” Ve Ap oF
UFO 1349/0) .

[fucl-. Stat Lon-asle a9,

i
Subject was asked whether be bud auy agreement to eseperate S |
i
i

'
t



|
i
i
i
i
i
i
Hl
'
{

PaRiRe (5349/01

# 66810
16 April 1966
Pago 2

that he has not had any contact with ANBIDDY/1 since he was told
to sever his conacetion in Sebruary 1963. Me does, howevor,
oceasi onal 1 fe HRSA and BARRO, Froa hia renarke it is uite
Obvious that Sabject has a great deal of affection aad respect rer
ANBIUDY/1, Subjseot atated that ho bas done Dothing recently to

bat he would not Lesitate
to tell anyono, if they nstod, that he felt AMWOULD was worthy of
a@ll the support that the inquirer oould give,

Subject stated that ho also has = great deal of respect for
the 30th of Havnuber Norewen: His contact with that croup ia
Idon D, Sibjoot bas ealy unc Iden D fer avout two mouths and that
incidentaliy vas tho reason why Idon P's nase does not appear en
tho List ef Subjeet's contacts Given to the Station in 1964,

Im @ discussion of whether or not Sabject discusses KUDARK

business with apauthorized persona, Subject stated that he did
Ret believe bo was privy to what micht be considered Classifiod
imforsstion bearing on KUNAKK activities, He polated cut that
his taforuation ,athering activities nec itate a certain asount
Of give mad take whieh invelvce bringing iuformation te the
attention ef certain indivicmls in order te sheok their reaction
te that information, Subjoot has not made any deliberate effort
to obtain tartormaticn regarding KUDAKK activitios from hie contacts
@meng the Cuban groups whe work for KUBARK,

2 Ie the disovssien of bincknall potentialitios Subjeet stated
that he hed cace been <atinate with the wife of Idea EB. We stated
that es far as he knows ldex is not aware of thie, bat thet Iden £
ones teld hin that he had Goupiled doragatery infermation regarding
Subjeet and forvarsed it to XODARK offictals,

Subject atates that he imova at least the fellewing MUMARKers
by true mame: Iden F, iden G, Idem ll, and Idem 1,

Savjecs stated that he might rooall ethers if he heard the
Games. bject Gees met know the aane er location of the KUBARK
base im Mioni,

Sabjeet stated that be has always felt that KUDARK hae son
Sihered Sin a Cuber rethor than an American, He wished to wake it
very olear that ke Joos net consider himself @ Cubaa bet oe the
contrary ceasiders bineselt an America,

Suvjvet siatec that ho felt that WUBARK was not utilising him
to the fullest extent of ais abilities, * Ie stated that he desires
bo becouse a psrannoat KIMARK asset end that he would Like very suoh
to be atilised, <fter the Gpprepriate traiming, in the PM field.

Keith b, vingTT

eetaeyeonneneee anann

ca eeetnirnme



Stagl “WRGA- 15849 /01
1s petit
$3 : 964
j Me sintates trae March 1OL7. iiavana, Cuba
5 Iden B Angelo DUNDES
4 Idea C deuus ARTIGAS
[ 3dea D Hiren GOMALES
Iden B (Fava wonates } 04
I¢en P C vs
j; oes (ey
| Iéon 8 Rovaré Hans
1
|

3éea 3 aviesom Ara

t ated, . pee
i ypta 153499/6) A f 7 Berge asl

ro

