rod 10121-10140 .

1. Mr. David S. Morales is héreby recommended for the Intelligence
Medal of Merit for his twenty-five years of dedicated service with the
Central Intelligenoe Agency.

2. Prior to his entrance on duty with the Central Intelligence
Agency in March 1951, Mr. Morales served from April 1946 to March 1951
in the United States Army.

3. Mr. Morales spent more than twenty years in the field in several
different installations in the areas of Europe, Latin America and East
Asia. He held senior level positions engaged in FI, CI, CA and PM opera-
tions. His record includes | eect items as participation in key roles in
both of Latin wo major PM/political action operations
plus tours as Laos (supervised 45 employees); and,
Regional Officer in Vietnam (supervised 60 employees).
These assignments were carried out in war zones requiring considerable
personal courage.

4. Mr. Morales was commended twice by Chiefs of Station while
assigned to the Cuban operation; by the Director of Central Intelligence
for service in the during the crisis; by the King of
Laos during his assignment in Laos afd by the Government of Vietnam for
his service in that country.

5. Upon_his return from Vietnam in 1971-Mr. Morales was assigned to
FR Division l where he was targeted on Latin American 4
This assignment was initiated by Latin

rica Division in an effort to at the rich operational potential
afforded by the presence of numerous Latin American
officials. Mr. Morales, with his long years of experience in Latin America,

and his native fluency in Spanish, proved. ideal for this assignment. He
developed numerous assets who were later pursued successfully and recruited
in the field and he made several significant recruitments of his own.

6. Following the FR assignment Mr. Morales returned to the Latin
America Division where he completed his final year with CIA. He served TDY
as Acting Chief of Station, or some months. During this, ‘iod
“there was more activity an shment flowing out of 2 asl
Station than had been seen in years". This is typical of Mr. M
resourcefulness, imagination and push to - the job done., The remainder

of his Agency time was spent on a TDY to land in the Cuban Operations
Group, where his contribution was also very large.

RETURN To CIA
Background Use Oniy
Do Not Reproduce

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 059115

Yr



7. ‘During his Agency career Mr. Morales was constantly engaged in
an exceptionally wide variety of activity in hazardous areas (Guatamala,
Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Laos and Vietnam). He recruited countless
assets and sources,directed against a wide range of targets. In addition,
he managed large installations and sizeable groups. He always shouldered
heavy responsibilities and consistently demonstrated that he had the
capacity, determination and necessary judgment to take on such jobs.

8. After nearly thirty years of dedicated and productive service
with the US Government, Mr. Morales retired on 31 July 1975,, Throughout
his long career he was a dedicated, skillful and professional clandestine
operator and unfailing in the pursuit of Agency objectives. His performance
was of the highest caliber and unquestionably contributed significantly
to the Agency's mission.



CITATION
Mr. David S. Morales

‘+ is hereby awarded the

Intelligence Medal of Merit
for his accomplishments during his career with the Central Intelligence
Agency. Mr. Morales, during his entire Agency career, displayed
exceptional talent, considerable imagination and initiative, and intense
devotion to duty. With determination, resourcefulness and adaptability
he performed all assignments in an extremely competent manner. His many

achievements, often under hazardous conditions, reflect great credit on

him and the Central Intelligence Agency.
