# 104-10006-10248

## Page 1

110410006-102481.

SECRET

FROM:

(Requesters name) O

A.W.BRASKO

ROOM

PADGE NO.

EXTENSION

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO.

TO

TUBE

ROOM

DATE

7735

INITIALS

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

RID/INDEX

DT - 5

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT. €

RID/ANALYSIS

GT - 7

RID/201

DW- 6

RID/MIS

GT - 6

R1D/ INDEX

DT - 5

SURNAME

DE

GIvEN NAMES

MONREN

VARIATIONS TOGE CHECKED

SHU TAL

George s

Jeans

AKA, ALIASES

OTHER IPFYTIEXING ATA Occupation, sex, CP memberahip,

affiliations,

Teal in U.5.5R.

CITIZENSHIP

0.5.

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

DATE OF BIRTH

czca

• 1918

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHER,

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal

line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity

symbol

oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

Return this form with the

card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on

the subject exists.

below:

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

(b) [ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (IS any)

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIC

are in RID/ARD, and

those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

Note 2.

ASSIGNEE™

YES

I NO

БА КЕрі

TRIO

DESK

Information concerning foreie

ublic personalities (except mili

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS DEEIFET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

MOHRENSCHILDT, /DR./

SEX M DOB ?

CIT ?

201-054527

EAVA- 01167 E01

17 DEC 52

P11.

OCC.?

AKA MOHRENSHILD, HUGO VON

SECTION CHIEF, GERMAN: INFORMATION DEPTLIN

BONN. ALLEGED CLOSE FRIEND TO 201-54527

DE MOHRENSHILOT, GEORGE

SEX M DOB C 10

USSR, BAKU

200-006-203/03

28 APR 63

-00095

CIT USA?

OCC GEOLOGIST AND FINANCIER

SEE IX 02 A/SO. CONTACT OF WUBEING I.

MOHRENSCHILD, VON MR.!

SEX M DOB

006÷007-000

CIT ?

AUG 50

CHIEF OF THE SICHERHEITS DIENST SO/ FOR

CARINTHIA UNTIL 1945.

матні

de MOHRENSCHILDT, George

Born: 17 April 1911

Мовук, USSR

THIS

DE MOHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE SERGIUS

201-725439*

SEX. M DOB 17 APR

USSR; UKRAINE, MOZYR

CIT USA

OCC ENGINEER AND BUSINESSMAN

A USA

VON MOHRENSCHILDT, JERRY

PETROLEUM ENGINEER AND BUSINESSMAN = MAY

481

019

---

