# 104-10147-10049

## Page 1

104-10147-10049

TO

Chief, Security Research Staif.

FROM

: Interrogation Research Division

SUBJFCT : Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

12 August 1958

IRD $ 67491

IDPNTIFYING DATA

Subject is a 40 year old former KGB Staffer who defected to the

U.S. in 1964 in Geneva.

BACKGROUND

Mr. Bruce I. Solie of the Security Research Staff has been de-

briefing and interrogating Subject since October 1967 in order to

esolve the issue whether Subject was a dispatched agent of the KGB

le has conducted a vast amount of research and checking with source

in an effort to establish the veracity of Subject's statements.

PURPOSE

The primary purpose of the polygraph test was to determine:

I. Whether Subject was a dispatched Agent of the KGB;

2. Whether Subject had intentionally given Mr. Solie

any false information.

PROCEDURE

Subject was given a polygraph examination on 2 August 1968 at

conducted in the inglish Language.

ability to express himself in English was completely adequate for

purposes of polygraph testing.

in all respects. Subject displayed no evasiveness and appeared to

be completely frank whenever he was questioned or gave infomation

on a topic.

The following relevant questions were asked during the first test:

Is your true name Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO? Yes.

Were you born in the year 1927? Yes.

Besides the Americans, did you tell anyone else about your

intention to defect?

No.

0003650

SECRET

Exclures dear eutaria:

#no: +19794911199

---

## Page 2

SLUMEI

IND # 67491

Page 2

Did you ever tell anyone in the KGB about your contact with

American Intelligence? No.

Were you given instructions by the KGB to get in contact with

American Intelligence? No.

Were you told by the KGB to defect in order to carry out an

Intelligence mission?

No.

The following relevant questions were asked during the second test:

Did the KGB actually send a communication for your recall to

the USSk on the day of your defection? No.

Were you acquainted with CHERFPANOV? Yes.

Did you actually travel to Gorkiy in November 1963 to hunt for

CHEREPANOV? Yes.

Are you deliberately withholding from us any information about

the KGB recruitment. of Americans? No.

Does the KGB have METKA and NEPTUNE 80? Yes.

Were you the responsible Case Officer for John Abidian in 1950-61?

YeS•

Do you know the true name of ANDREY Or SASHA? No.

Did you ever have tuberculosis? Yes.

The following relevant questions were asked on test three:

Did you serve in Navy Intelligence from 1951 to 1953: Yes.

Was SHUBIN in the USSR during the period 1957 to 1959? Yes.

To the best of your knowledge, were you in the Seventh

Department at this time? Yes.

Did you telephone the GRU about SHUBIN at this time? Yes.

To the best of your knowledge, was POPOV compromised because

of the letter Mr. Winters mailed? Yes.

0003651

SECRET

---

## Page 3

REUNIL!

1R0 # 67491

Page 3

To the best of your knowledge, was PENKOVSKIY exposed to the

KGB because of the mass surveillance on the British Embassy?

Yes.

Was there any misleading information in the notes you brought

out from the Soviet Union?

Did you intentionally exaggerate your personal association with

GRIBANOV? No.

Are you hiding any adverse information about your background? No.

Subject's polygraph test reflected no significant responses indicative

of deception regarding the relevant questions asked. No further polygraph

tests were administered on this date because the examiner did not want to

run the risk of fatigue setting in and thus possibly causing adrenalin

exhaustion.

Polygraph testing was resumed on 6 August 1968. The following

relevant questions were asked on test four:

Did you join the KGB in March 1953? Yes.

Were you a KGB officer from 1953 to 1964? Yes.

Were you a Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department? Yes.

Were you only a Captain at this time? Yes.

Were you an officer in the U.S. Embassy Section from March

1953 to May 1955? Yes.

In 1958 and 1959 were you the Deputy Chief of the American-

British-Canadian Section in the Seventh Department? Yes.

From January 1960 to December 1961 were you the Deputy to the

Chief of the First Section of the First Department?

Yes.

From January to July 1962 were you the Chief of the First Section

of the Seventh Department? Yes.

Were you an officer in the First Section, First Department, SCD,

at the time of the Stalingrad operation against Benson, Hule and

Stroud? Yes.

0003652

SECRET

---

## Page 4

IRD # 67491

Page

The following relevant questions were asked on test five:

Since 1953 do you know of any other KGB recruitments in the

American Embassy besides ANDREY and HOWARD? No.

Did the KGB know about the notes you brought out? No.

Have you told us the complete truth about your KGB career? Yes.

Did you intentionally exaggerate your personal involvement in

cases in 1962 and 1964 in order to mislead us? No.

Did you intentionally give us any false operational

information? No.

Did GRIBANOV offer you the position of Deputy Chiei of the

First Department?

Yes.

Was an order actually prepared promoting you to Deputy to the

Chief of the First Department?

Yes.

In early 1960 did GRIBANOV tell you that your primary responsibility

was to work against American Code Clerks? Yes.

Other than you mentioned, are you hiding any other reasons for

your defection? No.

Are you deliberately withholding any information on any foreigners

recruited by the KGB? No.

The following relevant questions were asked on test six:

Did you enter the KGB through the influence of General BOGDAN

KOBULOV? Yes.

Did you succeed BAKHVALOV as Deputy Chief of the First Section?

Yes.

Did GRYAZNOV succeed you as Deputy Chief of the First Section?

Yes.

Were the CHEREPANOV papers passed to the Americans with KGB

knowledge? No.

0003653

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

IRD $ 67491

Page

5

To your knowledge was there any misleading information in the

CHEREPANOV papers?

No.

Did you ever personally meet GOLITSYN? No.

Was there a cable sent to Geneva for you to assist ARTIMEV

in the

case? Yes.

Did you personally make an approach to

at the Moscow

Airport?

Yes.

The following relevant questions were asked on test seven:

Did you actually review the KGB flle on OSWALD? Yes.

Did LEE HARVEY OSWALD receive any KGB training or assignnents?

No.

Were there any microphones installed in the North Wing of the

U.S. Embassy in Moscow? No.

Was the review of microphone reports one of your duties in

1960-61? Yes.

Are you withholding any information known to you concerning

KGB microphones or electronic activity against the U.S.

Embassy? No.

Before your official transfer to the Seventh Department did

you read the surveillance report on the visit of ABIDIAN

to PUSHKIN street? Yes.

Did you personally conduct a certain investigation of SHAKOV

in 1962 in Geneva? Yes.

Was the rank of Ileutenant Colonel on your travel document

to GORKIY only a mistake by KASHPEROV?

The following relevant questions were asked on test eight:

While in the U.S. Embassy Section did you obtain a typewriter

for BORODIN for the preparation of a letter to Edward Ellis

SMITH? Yes.

0003554

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

IRD # 67491

Page 6

Did you read the official report of KOSOLAPOV on his contact

with

on a train from Helsinki to Moscow? Yes.

Are you intentionally withholding any information concerning

KGB knowledge of CIA personnel in Moscow? No.

Is there any possibility that the KGB would dispatch an officer

to defect to the Americans? No.

Subject's polygraph test of 6 August likewise reflected no

indications of deception.

CONCISION

Based solely on the overall analysis of Subject's polygraph

tests, it is the opinion of the undersigned that the Subject has

been substantially truthful in answering the relevant questions

asked.

N003655

SECRET

---

