# 104-10181-10065

## Page 1

104-10181-10065

DISPAICH

•RE°

ROCA-1175S

""los, SUSODA

003 11101

15-13

Thio! of Stallon, (garsady)

328-12020

BATE

esseble Khosledge

LEATHERE

Jone.

Por your inforaation enly

20-20

(r-17 5000, 9 Auguns 1960

20-20 FRAN 5201.

19 August 1960

20-20€.

YRA8 5531

2 September 1960

D.

YRA D6336, 10 Cetober 1950

20-20

10 Cusober 1960

-REEN ONE

BARAED FOR INCISIN,

NO ¡TORRIDE REGUINES

INDERIMS CAA DE JUDGIO

BY QUANFIED ME DESE ONLY

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Paragraph one of

roloraned C shoald be modifiod to shor that

SLOBODA knew Jchn T.

Onsenbrink by Bruasano as early as Marob 1960,

Onenbrink dealt with SLOBODA offlolally in tha procuris

of Rast dorman city piano and other material for (CarIn.

ocupying sho CATHINK offican in lato May of 1960,

SLOBODA about throe timon in the latter's offloo, nach of which vialta

concerned the soquialtion

a of baslo Intelligense materialo (0 B-, Raut

German selephone books, cly plane,

Ownenbrink did not indioato

SO SLOBODA the readon for Onnonbrink'o request for thees materials, bat

SLOBODA did know

Ossonbrink'a phone oxtonelon at canp ling, ainee

Ossenbrink occasionally

left word with SLOBODA fOr BLOBOL'S superiOr.

Mr. Lon Mollor, Chiol of Publiostiona Procurement Sootion, to phone

Oscenbrink for offloial purposes.

Oscendrink has questioned all XUBIRX CACETTY atal? meabere on

their inorindão of SlOBODA, asking uoa of a photograph of SLOSODA fOr

Hose had any forsonal contaos with bia, however, all

Solt that thoy had soon bin at cho Caap Xing soffoo bar. It should

• noted that nany US irmy willtory personsel at banp Ling say

freial knowledgo of the offiolal and noifielal mne of CAriTY (ee

membera are employeos of

that too offloial sane and siesion

othor US Arry offices at Casp K106,

Chlon alao had Sroquent oocanion to deal FitS SLOBODA'S former OffLo.

Moreover, in conversing "1th 03 dray personnel

at tho Camp Xing 00ffe

18 1a conceiyable that SLOBODA learned tbe true nases of all

XUBARX [CATHINK personnel without shair kaoriedgo.

In sumery,

18 appears that SLOBODs could have learned tho

1011081n8 about gis during the portod tarah 118088 1960 -

2 s Offloinl and mofflelal amoe and alenlos o1

CAPHINE. (0f8101al and anofflolal nano of CAtaIn

corvardod so Identition A, and D. respoodlToly ador

separAt cover attachment

Do Trio nAMe of LUBARK and CA MIll slait mendero,

Inoladime sha 1008 that they are asalamod lo Cany X1ag

24

SECRET

Đn*

22/pad

---

## Page 2

4.

ne dolay la reportina thia austor vas des to the fact la

John F. 0398538115

Approvada

MOtOr S. REDNILE

centese coment

Attaohments

Off101al and Faofflo1al sanoo (caraITT

Distribations

* 93.

9BCR48

Past te

---

