# 104-10126-10253

## Page 1

104-10126-10253 •

Tenserony

• Journal - Office of Legislative CounschRETURNTO GIA

Page 3

Wednesday - 28 June

1978

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

7. (Secret - MMP) LIAISON Julie Wotzel, NSA, called to

adviso

us that a lettor was coming over from

NSA to Lyle Miller,

Acting Legislntixe.Counsel, on the subject of the leak of NSA's

ability to read

diplomatic traffic.

She said that the

lotter states that NSA"has no objoction to the Director's

provision of NSA's damage assessment to the House Permanent.

Select Committee on Intelligence.

The letter goes on to state

that NSA does not feel that it would be appropriate to reveal.

the names of Congressmen and staff who are aware of NSA'S

capability to read

diplomatic traffic inasmuch as the

Attorney General is investigating the leak.

8. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Called Luch Johnson,

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence statt,

to advise

him (based on information provided by Suzanne Black, Office of

Public Affairs), that the Agency has no past or present substantive

involvement with WEIA. J

in response to a previous

request from Johnson.

I also asked Johnson how much information

he wished us to provide him on the Agency's relationship with

public television.

He indicated that he is only interested in

a brief sketch of

what kinds of relationships the Agency may have

had with public television and I passed this requirement on to

Ns. Black.

9 .

(Confidential • DFM) LIAISON Received a call from

Ed Greissing, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff,

regarding the House Satect Committoc on 1s of testimon equest

tor access to Church Committee transcripts of testimony by

Agency employees.

I asked him to send Ted Shackley's

testimony to

me so he could review it before giving approval.

I reminded him

that Mr. Sanchez had asked that his testimony

not be shown and that that should be considered the final

Agency response.

10. (Secret - DFM) LIAISON Called Earl Eisenhower, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who mentioned he would

like the briefing on counterintelligence to be presented to

the Committee during the first week of August. I later picked

up a letter from Eisenhower on this subject.

We confirmed

tomorrow's briefing of four Committee stati members to cover

the Martha Peterson case, specifically the allegations of

poison pills; the discovery of the antenna in the chimney of

the Moscow Embassy; and the Shevchenlio case.

Eisenhower

repeated his carlier request to Lyle Miller, Acting

Legislative

counsel,

for a trip to NPIC to viewWrangel Island which is part

›f the USSk but which some U.S. citizens claim really belongs to

the U.S. Eisenhower had viewed maps of the Island but wants to

see photographs as none of the mays are more recent that ten

ycars old. I agreed to try to

set this meeting up for Friday,

30 June.

20437

---

