# 104-10090-10012

## Page 1

1104-10090-10012

CHIBITED

THE

RECORD

SUBJECT:

Lee Harvey OSWALD

C1S1G theirs

3 December 1963

JUCTION

At 1010 hours on 3 December, Mr. Papich of the FBI advised that the

Bureau had received a cable last night from the Legal Attache in

Mexico City who is in touch with our representative there.

He stated

that our representative had been informed by Captain Wheelock=of the

_Nicaraguan Intelligence Service) that ALVARADO told him, Wheelock, that

he recanted his original story because of fear of physical harn;

that

Alvarado was being deported from Mexico to Nicaragua on 4 December 1963

and would be accompanied by Wheelock; that Wheelock assured our repre-

sentative that Alvarado would be available for further interview in

Nicaragua if the United States desired.

Mr. Papich stated that the Bureau would like to have him subjected

to a polygraph examination by this Agency and would appreciate receiving

word as soomas possible as to whether we will handle the matter since

if we will not handle it the FBI will have to determine what other steps

might be taken to see that this is done.

I advised MA

Rapich that I

would chech

hed we

available

at this. time

buttin any

graph operator who could prope

would let him know whether

handle?

matter

g can be

Birch

Chief, CI/SIG

CC:

Whitten

SME

AS

287

690

0002283а

PAGE

54a

of

СОРУ

NO.

69

---

## Page 2

14-00000

int

3 December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR

SUBJECT:

RECORD

Harvey

OSWALD

st

from

ice to my previous memorandum of today

Papich at 1010 hours, and after checking wipe rega

Ility of seeing Mr. Helms, I telephonica)

'I did not know when I would be in a pos:

an

swer but in any event it would certainly not

re

12 поод.

After conferring with Mc. Helms, Mr. Angleton and

Whitten,?

and being informed by Mr. Helms that this was a matter which I could

tell Mr. Papich would have to be decided by the Director,

I telephonically

contacted Mr. Papich at approximately 12:00 noon and advised him that

it was a matter which would have to be considered by

our Director, that

I could not give him any assurance as to the time he would receive a

response.

The matter was definitely being given attention and he would

be informea as soon as I received a response.

Mr. Papich remarked that

relatively balle matter ency couldn't reach a prompt decision on a

"if your Agency can't do it we are

I did not go into the question as to whether

not do it with Mr. Papich but simply

a response as soon as I could.

ain that this was an official request that we hand

and polygraph. He stated that it was

inter a derable pressure on the question and his

thee be

soon as possible.

Document Number

1537-1106

for FOIA Review on:

FEB 1978

Daren o

g Weal

Chief,

CIYSIG

if air

Te: +320-402

itte

died ice

We..

0002222

PAGE

53

COPY

NO.

of

69

---

## Page 3

54

PAGE

COPY NO.

69

14-00000

ever, ele

lei devid

Hunteri

freent

dull be

shelte

Its aruined Min

te thail it neit

Tedle Leiste

0002283

5320

hen tendent

Be Poorest Aids tol

---

