# 104-10009-10224

## Page 1

1104-10009-10224

gistry

10510

15 October, 1968.

Dear Dick,

Station has sought my views

on the possibility of declassifying a Warren Commission

document in which reference is made to the

The document in question isl

together with an attachment dated

29th November, 1963.

recommend strongly that

Its attachment should not on any

account be

declassified or

publicly released for reasons which include the following :

(1)

It has never been officially stated that there

Is a "C.l.A.

Station! or that

there are C.l.A. officers in|

This has been avoided as a point of policy.

(li)

Publication of these facts would invoke a

"spate of questions by the l

Press'and in" the

Parliament, which would be contrary to the

national security interest, for example :

(a) Who approved the establishment of

the "C.l.A.L

Station''?

(b) What is its composition and location?

(c). What is its purpose in

(Allegations have already been made

that C.l.A. is interfering in L

domestic alfairs.)

(d) With what

deal?

agencies does it

which has not been

publicly disclosed, could be brought

Into discussion.)

(e) with what other foreign agencies does the

control is there over

such dealings?

SERRAT

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

2.

(1i)

Questions could be raised as to the investigation

by the

of the anonymous telephone

calls, the validity of its quoted conclusion and

the result of its further enquiries.

I am giving a copy of this letter to your

Station•

With kindest regards and best wishes.

yours reassily,

Richard Helms, Esq.,

Director,

Central Intelligence Agency,

Washington, D.C., 20505,

United States of America.

---

