104-10431-10069

23 November 1963

LX-2LS SSO

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

FROM: * Acting Chief, SR Division 5

' “SUBJECT: Contact of Lee OSWALD with a member of Soviet KGB

Assassination Department

1. According to an intercepted phone call in Mexico City, Lee OSWALD

was at the Soviet Eubassy there on 28 September 1963 and spoke with the

Consul, Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV. This was learned when OSWALD called ~
the Soviet Embassy on 1 October, identifying himself by name and speaking
broken Russian, stating the above and asking the guard who answered the phone
whether there was “anything new concerning the telegram to Washington."

The guard checked and then told OSWALD that a request had been sent, but
nothing had as yet been received. (MEXI 6453, 9 October 1963) The FBI liaison
officer, Mr..Pappich, told me on 23 November that the Bureau has reason to
believe that OSWALD's visit was to get Soviet support for a U.S. passport or
visa matter [perhaps the new passport mentioned in the press articles.

“2. KOSTIKOV is an identified KGB officer. He was a case officer in an
operation which is evidently sponsored by the KGB's 13th Department (responsible
for sabotage and assassination). This operation, which is controlled by the
FBI under the cryptonym TUMBLEWEED, involved a German-national resident of

who was recruited in Europe, and met this year with KOSTIKOV in Mexico
City and shortly thereafter with a known.13th Department officer, Oleg BRYKIN,
in New York. The instructions given TUMBLEWEED by the two officers, (pinpointing
objectives for sabotage) and the circumstances of their involvement in the case,
left no doubt that both of them were working for the same KGB component, the
13th.

3. Of course it is not usual for a KGB agent on a sensitive mission to
have such overt contact with a Soviet Embassy. However, we have top secret
Soviet. intelligence documents, describing Military Intelligence doctrine, which
show that very important agents can be met in official installations using as
cover for their presence there some sort of 7) business: Vice Admiral

Document Number eg- 538

for FOIA Review on APR 197 CUASSIFICATION Review |
i il conucteo ont 6 APR 1976

EQ IMPDET CL BY_CH22c5

cena : i
ECORD COPY



L. BEKRENEV, in a top secret lecture to a Soviet Military TnteLLigence course :
at Military-Diplomatic ene 1960,. said, ee ARLE :

| “Case officers who use as cover, let us say, the Soviet Trade ~

i Representation,. TASS or Sovinformburo, can use their cover

i assignments as backstopping for non-clandestine meetings with. -.

H certain agents whose particuler activities officially associate

them with the previously mentioned Soviet institutions. However,”
such non-clandestine meetings within-a legal residency should be
restricted to a minimum both as to place and time. Meetings of

this type should be carried out only in exceptional cases with

tested and reliable agents in order to avoid provocation by the

local counterintelligence service against the Soviet installation
being used as cover. Such meetings are held as a rule in the work
offices of the case officer or of the agent during working raarlihta a
It is necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that

they do not attract the attention of outsiders, and that the receipt
and transmittal of intelligence matters, properly camouflaged, be -
carried out discreetly. In setting up such meetings, measures ageinst
tapping must be taken. One must bear in mind that a meeting with.
persons outside official premises and during non-working hours usually
ite signifies a relationship between the two parties that is above and

ir beyond officiel matters."

| Also, such contact in official installations may be caused by the agent's own
carelessness. Again Admiral BEKRENEV speaks:

ZI “Some agents, because of inexperience or because of deliberate

H violation of the rules of security through peculiar personal
rashness,.... approached our case.officers at places not stipulated
as operational meeting sites, others telephoned the case officer at
his Soviet installation and discussed personal contact arrangements,
while others still showed up personally at the Soviet installation in
order to contact the case officer."

-4. Lgalled the above connections to the attention of Mr. Pappich by
Bhone_to his FBI office at 1030 hours on 23 November. :



13-00000

5. I am attaching

1) a summary of our information on KOSTIKOV; and, ~-

2).all valid background information now available on the work
of the 13th Department of the Foreign Intelligence of the KGB: 2

a. Extracts from Report on the Soviet Stete Securi
Service (KGB), dated May 1963, based on information from AELADLE.

b. Soviet Use of Kidnapping ‘and Assassination ~~ _ Executive
Action, dated August 1960.

c. Soviet Strategic Executive Action, dated October 1961.

Tennent
Chief, Paine



13-00000

SUBJECT: Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV

KOSTIKOV, who was born on 17 March 1933 in Moscow, was
assigned to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City as. Vice Consul.

on 19-September 1961.

A fluent Spanish speaker, he had travelled deosalee: least...
three times before this permanent assignment; moreover, in.1959°.
KOSTIKOV applied for a visa to accompany Premier Nikita Sergeye-~
vich KHRUSHCHEV's- party to the United States as an official of
the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we have no record
of his having come to this country at that time. KOSTIKOV
served as an interpreter at international conferences at Madria

“and Barcelona in 1958 and.1959. In late 1959 and early 1960

he attended Soviet exhibitions in Mexico City and Havana; he
is known to have been in Cuba from 6 January to 7 March 1960.

7

The physical description. of KOSTIKOV quite accurately fits
that of a Soviet case officer who nearly a year ago met in
Mexico an FBI-controlled double agent. This double agent's
Soviet case officer in the United States has been Oleg Danile-
vich BRYKIN of the Thirteenth Department, KGB First Chief
Directorate, occupying the overt position of translator-trainee,
U.N. Secretariat, New York City. BRYKIN was stationed in New
York City from December 1960 to July of this year.

Since arriving in Mexico, KOSTIKOV is known to have travelled
three times outside the capital: In March 1963 and again for the
first two weeks of September he went to Tijuana, Ensenada, and
Mexicali, ostensibly for the purpose of purchasing cotton. . The
U.S. Department of State, however, has reported that during
these trips KOSTIKOV met local representatives of Movimento
Liberation National and Central Compesina Independienta, both
large Communist front organizations. In addition, according to
FBI sources, KOSTIKOV was accompanied on the September trip by
Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV, and he contacted in Ensenada several
persons including Communist sympathizers who previously had been
associated with Soviet officials stationed in Mexico City.

ALFERYEV, a PRAVDA correspondent in Mexico, was in close
contact with Cuban diplomats and local Communist leaders during
a February 1962 visit to Quito.



Wife: ..Rosa Aleksandrovna, born. 2 March 1932 _Arkhamgel Oblast.

Daughter: Svetlana Valerievna born! 1959, Moscow.

Wife and daughter ‘accompanied Subject. to Mexico.

“Graduate of Foreign Language Institute and/or Institute (Of,

Foreign Affairs, Moscow.

From 30 suneliea 10. July 1959 was at ‘the Electrotechnical
Congress in Madrid; attended a conference in Madrid
and Barcelona’ in 1958. : a

November 1959 to 6 January 1960 - Soviet Exposition in

Mexico City.
na Crew E,

Lo Saeco (Rho nit toe pects ier AT

Contacts in Ensenada, Baja, California, September 1963:
1. Daily with Isaak Karlos. CHAPLUK (201-229418)
and with CHAPLUK's ‘son.
2. T September, stayed 45 minutes at Nuna SIMANOVKA's
Curio Shop. : ‘
3. 7 September, dinner with Miguel POPOFF (201-286055)

Note that ALFEREV claimed that he was a guest of the party of
Eva Samano de Lopez MATEOS, wife of the President of Mexico,
Adolfo Lopez MATEOS.. On the trip to Baja, California; Mrs.
Lopez was attending a Congress of the National Institute for

the Protection of Children.

Ml - BGS
