# 104-10192-10046

## Page 1

104-10192-10046

RETURN TO CIA

Backoround Use Only

4i0b

• COSMOR 10 140.0001

1 205 25165225

1 810 1O dud too

CLASSiFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

131.

oclo

F1,

11/59

CHIPSE, SUPER,

ti, fiLe,

CS/RF.

R

P

R

SECRET 1318532I

3 1} 21252

MASALS

DIR INTO LANT PACT SARR CITE WAVE €248

2F-7

INTEL TYPIC

3 BRIA CALDER -

ABSTRACT-

SUPDATA: ACLATTER-I WHO WAS ASXED FOR.

INFO CN PT SOATS BY

JOHNSON AT :CURCE'S HOUSE 1$ FESRUARY RID:

INDEX FILEO 13185052.

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

CUSA.

SUBJ:

POS!.

IMPENDING AIR STRIKE AGAINST CUSA BY THE MIRR

D01: 18 FESRUARY Ó5

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (12 FEBRUARY 65)

i c-6596

MICROFILMED

MAR 1. 1365

DOG. MICRO. 81

A MIAMI SUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL

YENiS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECCONIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO.

U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

MY CONJANTI

+PR

P

112

1004 | 389

PECTION BY

RI COPY

19-300-20

135-56-

TDCSDS-315/00512-65

XX ROUTINE

IPROaTY

SASED ON:

UFG-6696

APPANCLATTER/:

CATE DISTRISUTES:

23 FE38L0Y 2300 = 651

SECRET

LAISON: ::

→:→G A7A

0:7:05 IS PROMISITED.

RI 'COPY

Coar No.

1J9:

---

## Page 2

CONFOENTI.

CENTRAL INT::LIOECE AGLIOY

Incelligence Intormation Cable

O ROUTINE

COUNTRY

94°805

14:O.

CUBA

10 FECRUASY 1965

T0C508-315100512-65

DISTR. 13 FEBRUARY 1965

SUSJECT

•POSSIBLE IMPELING AIR STRIKE MAINST GLIA SY THE MIRR

LASSICO UNITED STATES, MIAMI (12 FEBRUERY 1965)

RES

IN: 88216

SOURCE

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-6696

¡USINESSYAN N4O SAS A LESIDENT CE HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE

CONTACIS ANO RSCOGNIZE MIM AS CHALLE: TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE:

1. CHA FI GRUARY IGES SILL

FO-ASON, AN AVERICAN PILOT IO

ARRINGES THE SOPORT ASPECES CE AIR STRIKES AÑMINST CUSA BY ORLANDO

BOSCH

AVILA : :OVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

MIRA, INGU• LUTIONAL NOVENENT FOR REVELUTIGNARY RECOVERY), SAIO

THAT HE WAS 1R:ING TO OSTAIN INFORICATIEN ON TUO CUSAN PT BDATS -

MiTICH ARE BELLEVED TO SE ASSIENCO TO THE. WESTERN END OF SAMIA MONDA

•Ü THE MORT. E IST OR PIME DEL S.D.PROHINCE. JOHNSON SAIC TRAT

THISE SOATS

: OSSERVE SY THE LOT HO MNDE THE 17 DANUARY RAID

C: PIETRAORLÀ SUGAR DIALE IN PIEGA DEL FIO PROVINCE THE BEATS

ID'COMACISE ASOCIRE RIE MAINEN DICOLE DI LO VOILCO SLAICA MISLA LO EPABLES DI LLO LADIOSAGO LAWA TILLE

N03 1: 1 int, ino trasenispira de presidiva di vaieh la nay maaser lo da unaulhorred person la probibited by ita

CCMRCENTI-2

iME CESE.

2'2

NAVY

Fg1'

1ENS

dts

NSA

NIC

AID

DER PATROL COAST GUARD

ORA

EXC

---

## Page 3

TIN

CONCENTAL

525-315/60512-65. 3BX9CX

: 5RE LIT UP AT THEIR MCGRAGE WHEN iNE PILOT SAN THEM. JOHNSON IS

INTERESTEO. IN DETERMING IF THESE SORTS ARE PERNANENTLY ASSIGNEO

TO THIS AREA.

=. JOiNSON SAIO THAT ME AND THE PILOT OF THE NIAGARA RAID O

WOULD LIKE TO TARGET THE NEXT MIAR RAID AGINST THE AT SOATS, BUT

BOSER INSISTS THAT THE NEXT TARGET BE ANOTHER SUGAR MILL.

SOSCH

"CLE JOINST: HIS OSUECTIVE IS TO PROVORE FIDEL CASTRO RUZ INTO

SACCTING DE : ONE OF THEIR AIRCRAT IN CROIR TO CAUSE AN INTERNATIONAL

INCIDENT. I...:SON SAIO THE RAIO IS TO TAKE PLACE "IN THE VERY NEAR.

FUTURE. "

SO JOMASON SAID THAT HE HAD ORGANIZED AND DIRECTED THE 11

JANUARY STRIKE OVER CUSA ANO HAD ALSO PROCUREO THE PILOT FOR

THE MISSION 1E SAIO THEY HAD RUN INTO À SERIES OF DIFFICULTIES

AS A RESULT OF JACK WRIGHT'S PLANE GRASH AT FREEPORT, GRAND BAHAMA

ISLANO, ON FORUARY, WHICH WAS A SECEND ATTEMPT, TO RAID CUSA FROM

THAT ARENO HE SAID THEY WOULO THEREFORE FOLLOW THE SAME PATTERN

TRE: FOLLOUS ON THE NIAGARA RAID SY TAKING OFF FROM AN AIRFIELO

IN THE CANTO STATES AT A POINT LACRE THERE IS A "SLIND SPOT IN THE

PiCAS NET." ' LEY WOULD REENTER ¡NITED STATES TERRITORY AT THE

SAVE POINT. I SOURCE COMMENT: :: IS DIGALY COUSTFUL THAT THIS 1S

THE METHOD :FE MIRR USED IN THE PAST TO LEAVE AND RENTER THE UNITED

PAGE =

FIGLO COMMENT: FOR INFORCATICN ON THE CRASH CE JAUN WRIGHT'S

MACRAM, SEE TDESDS-315/55379-65 DATED 3 FEBRUARY 1965%.

=

Came Cas

---

## Page 4

8,8216

CONSIDENTIAL

TDCS 08-315/00512-GAOE j

So RICLE DISSEN:

CIRCLANT, CINESO, COMP: STFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STEiG, FOL, CUSTONS, LENS, 30R:ER PATROLA iND USÇG.

END OF MESSAGE

---

