ios-t0124- (0192 :

a 9 SECRET —s - @ oo

i ° . ed eee wre ate
TO: ASST. DEPUTY (INSPECTION & SECURITY) Date:
FROM: op/op/ope (Security) w.6.: FSU S-CSC
SUBJECT:

b

"

e 1. Necessary covert investigation is requested on Subject on whom all available
background data is submitted separately. Information and/or clearance is
requested for case category as follows:

Operational Cl. XX Security Cl. Sp. Inquiry _ Operational Support.

i

4 oz

: 2. Name of Special Project (if applicable) : (DIMTKADO

3. Investigation to be completed as: _XX_ Routine __ Expedite
by not later than ___1 June 1952 __.

gt

3 4, Scope and nature of use or activity:

to a contract agent of this organization. It is not expected
hat subject will learn of the agent's connection with this organization,
howsver. :

Subject is the president of a company which will provide accreditation
u(

Category: Covert Associate.

i 5. Suggested "cover" for investigation: Governmental —*X comercial
Other
Specific: General Credit

6. Limitations, if any, on investigation: Wone
T. Subject EXx/HAS NOT been briefed that investigation is pending.
8. Subject MMS/HAS NOT been briefed on "cover" story to be used in investigation.

‘9. Subject BEX/HAS NOT indicated to probable investigative contacts investiga-
tion pending. ‘

ce

10. Subject MES/HAS NOT indicated to probable investigative contacts "cover"
story to be used.

11. CIA indices checks required for provisional operational clearance by

i Ooo a
(date)

7 og

| | )

FORM MO. -~

eranct
