04-t0766-10196
7

PRIOR 1U rinses

T. Fil an Sect, 2. on back., Detach beck ‘tap
and forward.to RID. 7 )3"53 +
2. Destroy. fos! cover ‘sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requit-

II Ble no and tile shown are nol proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.

ing preservation,
FROM:

Jo ALL ADOPSSEES:
Gu iw SECTION 1 ON BACK. 1F APPROPRIATE.

MICROFILMED Bs
OCT &5: 108


PICETSSING ACTION.

AnetD FOR INDEAINO
Chief, KUDELSK
Chief, WH Division i
on a = as
Chief of Station, Port-au-Princey —
mae al of Stag Te
Tustyn!*STRUMIT70 Correspondence With George de MOHRENSCH=.LDT.

References: A. DIR-02513, dated 16 April 1965.
B. HTPA-16y8, dated 15 October 1965.

CUA?

NO WORKING RECUIRED

COMLY QUALIFIED OF3K
CAN IOGE INDEXING

= 4. On 15 October 1965 George de MOHKENSCHILDT received @
letter from Tustyy, STRUMITTO, Because reference A showed
dnterest: in STRUMITTO correspondence with De RauScHnLoT
Station jsecurely opened tne letter from STKUMITTO and photo)
ed the Contents. Headquarters ‘will note that STRUMITTO's address
different from that. indicated in reference Ae

2 as" pevachea herewith is the roll of undeveloped film for
jevelo) tt. It is requested that (the praptor}ee pouched one
copy ach print. (6-' ai

mrad }702 19/10/65
: L : vg STRUMITTO BECAUSE
if. tom ot 7 INTEREST EXPRESSED DIR 02513
: foseph G. Bi iN

(80 VALUE FOCUS BAD)

Attachment as Stated.

Distribution: : =
hdef, KUDESK, w/att
ef, WH Division, w/o att
tee wtas To w) es ene’ :
wal lhT

Cane
19 October 1965

—\ :
201-725439



@
: SHEE @

H Jhte prone puntireg cee ;
7 pf? 4g “4 waves .

© Fei i, 20 led thaVrnfosmaaleen
on ftw Hoe we eaees fo)
mad. *

2

eo

