104-10479-10025}

8%

MPMORANTOM FOR THE ROCIRD

(oy

SURIECT: Contact Report on Meeting with sMRURL LO} p-aroel

CNG-1 and SIXDFCTER were net
gned. They were then taken by
taxi to the Yayflover Fotel, where a room had been reserved ... for

their use. ifter having lunch at thse hcte), the party journod to
the room, where ASTG-1 wes given s stort briefing —
Cee “-/T operator vho was riled to meet ‘
38
2. At 180 hovrs, the undors, at to the lo‘ty of the hotel
vhere Froncisco was waiting oT ae his escort officer.
yeas instructod to bring Fr: to the mon. It was
in advance of this that all srincipals would with draw. from

the ream to give AYRTHG-2 an —— to talk with Francisco alone,

Foxever, it was sugrested tha turn a half hour before the
interview wes terainated to clear U5 any points as to the natura of
Francisco's training, or any asnects that 270%.) rt

olerify. tarview with Francisco was terminat:
hours, as AYETNG.1 statod he would be sleasod to have Francisco ;
assicned to hin, All indiestions.vere that a happy racport was este-

blished between the principals and a camloto understanding was :
reached as to the future role of Trancisco as the «/T operator for !
the AMYUM revo in Cuba. = :

3. At approximately 1535 hours, put in hie appearance |

at the room and was introduced to AFH a8 Pr. Rodrick. Prior to H
this meeting, “RUMG-1 vas told that Yr. Rodrick was the coordinator

for overations and would live to disc:ss soze of the nore specific |

aspects with hin, arior to his return to Cuba. [Cecil Cart: who OF |

1

i

had escorted 2°SCNG. ‘Nashington, asked to af€ in an this nesting
along with Peters jas he felt that MASH shenld be fully
Anformed on whatever ma] matters were discussed with AMRUKGA2

effective future coordifstion between Headquarters and MASH.
indicated puoet back heate to this and stated he was glad to have

in at this ioe
4. In substance, covered most of the highlights dastiog
with orevicus attest aply the AXTUM group with aras and ammo,

and air-naritine overations currently being olanned. In this
connection, 1S °NG vas highly pleased to learn that 8.~,000 pound

SEDRET |

1K


7 7 SECRET

-2-

shipront hud been successfully infiltrated to his group during rs absence
ain wrped that rons such snitwents should bo etepped us in the future.
OM cee briefly discussed tho SIN. operation and asked sYHUNG-1 Af ne
thank this area fer the Cc wa. already *tlown? due to the number of ©
poople wic already knew of his o,eration, (This includes £ other people
besides A!MUNel and A SUNG.1.) AYAUNG-L stated he was not sure, Unt vould
inve:tigate this upen hie return. Howover, he felt that this was an excel
lent DZ site and should be utilized for any cutynquent airdrop acheduled in
the Pinar del Rio province. nforred AVAUNG-1 that his overlays on
various L2"s and E2's had be ed and wero being reviewed by the opera
ticps peo,le. He coxplinented AY3UNG-1 on the erccllent sork of his carte.
grcpher und expressed the view that these OZ aroas would be rut to rood uses
Finaliy, he assured AYuCNGel that no stone is Feing left unturned to provide
his grou, with the necessary wateriel sup,ort stich 4s critically nevded and
that this sup.ort will be step ed up as our infiltraticn capabilities are ine
creased both by air and sea, In parting, he cautioned avNCNG-1 not to tube
any unnecess.ry chances when he resured operaticnal activities in Cuba, since
his leadership in the AUYUN group was vii overall interests, The
meting was terminetai about 1720 hours land Peters took their dee

parture. OF

5. Sore of the more significant hi, hlirhts of the conv-rsatiens which -
tock place betwe.n AVSUNGeL undersigned prior to his meetings xith the
W/T operator (Francisco) aro noted herewith:

a. Security: Castro bis taken stringent acti n in tishtening up
his internal security a, ainst counter-r-voluticnary forces inside
Cuba. The riiitis arr being woec to search hous:s for concesled
weapons (ustaily by a hlock system), and anyone failing to produce
proper identification is renoved for questicning by the PIER.

Hence, AVSUNG-1 ani bis organizatiin are largely confining thoir
activities to the daylight hours from 0700 to 2000 haurs. He
considers night operaticns = particularly on the st:ects of Havana =
as highly dangerous inasmuch as the 2J-It (security orrans) are -
censtantly on the alert to stop individuals cn the street to check
their identification documents.

be Documenta! of A,ents in Cuba: AVAUIC-) surgested using an
identiricati-n card issued by the Havana Universtty for their
students. He had a saxple copy in his ;ossession, which he eleizs
was readily accepted by Castro security forces as boing valid. =~
Sirilarly, a driver's license prozerly authenicated along with a
health certirieate were ccnsidored to be gacd "cover" docurents *
for uents cperating in the Havana area. A sup-ly of blank ident!
ficaticn cards wii be turned over to the Statice by AVAUNC=] fon
transxittal to headquart-ra for any sutscquent dccurentation of

SECRET

ise


da

SECRET

SS

agents whe can be passed off as students at the Ravana University.
(Ho suggested preparing cae for tis */T o;erator (Francisco).

Operaticnal Expenditures: Cue:ied on this aspect, :YSCNG-1 stated
his organizati n-wculd need a rinimur. of 50 to 60,00 pesos a

month to cover their cverall operaticnal expenses. These funds are
being used for safehouse raintenance, travel expenses, purchase of
vehicles and gaecline, ailovaticn of funds to varices sub- - .
divisions of the AYYTY organizati:n located in varicus provinces of
Cuba, and purckase of food and sup;ort of varicus arents whose
families may be in dire neod of food and medical s

W/T_o.eratora: To date, both iPANIC=14 and AYCIIN-) have net
met the requirements for effective cornunica‘ion with us on AYTUR

oferat.cns, However, AFAUNG-1 feels that AVPAUICW18 hag not been
compromised or turned by the D12x and once he rets over his nervous
stato, At 1e possible he can still te used, Similariy, although -
AYGLEN-1 4c considered tc be a co d W/T cjerator, LUNG.) fecla
his usefulness to hiv has been conuidersbly nejatet ty the nature
of hig assignrent at the Naval tase end bis recent restrictions

to this base by orders of the Castro regire. In stort, AYRUNG-L
feels com-unicaticn is the weabost link in his current cperaticne
and that direct com-unicaticns with the Embassy 1s growing ins” *
eroasingly hazardous, due to the fact that Embassy rerscnnel cre
under close surveillance by the Castre cecurity forces. For this
reason he fecls that Francisco will fill a sericus wid in thie
respect, once he 4s infiltrated into the ANYIK orjaneation dn

Cubase

Support for other anti-Castro crops in Cubat aVAIMA2 stated that
all materiel eup,ort sould be funneled directly te his orgenizas
ticn for diatrituticn to other anti-Castro gro-pe incuba. In

his view this would serve as a ecntrol fector in-unifying the over
all effort of the varicus splinter ,rovps seeking evet suppcrt in
Cuba and ould also ontsnce the pfestice of the WRK as the spear.
head for the FRENTE. He then went cn to acd that he vas fully
aware of our efforts to supsort other groups in Ckba, whieh he
sumed We were Operating With on & unilateral basis. (i. be
sited Nino Diag in Oriente), AMaUNG-l felt this wis a sor:
mistake, as this unilateral suport would affect the leadership and
direction now being provided by the “hk Shroughout Cuba. . The
undersigned told AYatNG-l that he acreed on the desira>: ty of

a coordinate d effort on the part of all counter-reveiet

groups seeking to overthro Castro using the FRENTE as the rallye
ing center. Hovever, ts. q question of supcort being -diee ted
through one channel namely: his organizalion in Cubd, vas neither
feasible nor practical, The fret that Castro had tigttened up
ocurity throughout the vari-us previnces of Cuba, weld make it
difficult or in;ossible for the AYTLM greup to Bhp ares and other
equipsent from Havana te the eastern rost province:

SECRET



Hl an

i Villas, Caraguay or Oriente) without jeopardieing both shiprents

! and yerson el. Hence, the need for unilateral action on our

! part to eup.uy those fiphting groups in these provinces. This
explsnaticn appoarod to satisfy AYEUNG-1, hovever he still inolsted
that his organizatt n should at lrust be appraised of any rateriel

supjort provided other groups in Cuba. He sured that wa
would take lis request under consideration.

f. ALDIDP¥=11 AVHUNG-1 feels that nc useful purpose would be served
a sending his a:sceiate to join forces with him in Havana. He
AFDLDDY-1 should continue te represent the at YUy
facticn in the FAD and vhen the counter-r:velutivrary forces aro
ly prepared to everthrow the Castro regire, AY2ID-¥-1 will be
Drought into tho Pinar del Rio to direct the AMY forces in this

provinces

ge Manolo Ray: ARHUNG-1 considers AY as a Kirkly danverous individual
1 because of his great anbiticn to plsy a presinent role jn any
subsoquent Cuban gov razent following the overthrow of the Castro
rogine, In his opinion, aiY poses a sericus threat to VAX"KA'S
Jeadership and the FRD inside Cuba. Ho 1s atten;ting to draw
various dissident groupe to hie bannere 2nd appears to hovo support
fron the riddle class represented by twsinegs interests, politiciahs,
und the prefessicnal class. Should xi¥ te persuaded to join
forces with the FD, AXMUNG-l thinks he wi:l continue to operate
H on @ unilateral basis while seeking to supercede tte FRD with

his om crganizaticn in Cuba, :

hh. Tony Varona and the FRD: Although AFRUNG!1 reccenizes the neod
| to support the FAD as a litical front for rallying counter~
revoluticnury grou-s against the Castro recive, he n:nethneloss
feels that the FHENIE and Tony Vii(NA h.ve lost considerable face
| din Cuba by inaction and political raneuv-ring. He further pointed
out that he 4e avare that thousands of dollars fad been poured into
the FRraIi, but dissident groups in Cuba hve scen no evidence of
any of this money to sup ort their efforts to cverthrow Castro.
Hence, ccnfidence in the F!D ie at a relatively low ebb amcny, the
people in Cuba and a new ot in the arm in the form of materiel
and financial support is needed to reaters this confidence, Ac-
cording to sFiiNG-1 vhis cup, ort rust be fortt.coring soon because
euch poo;i¢ as Manolo RAY ere taking the initistive and will socn
{ contrcl the entirc counter-revolut onary movement in Cuba,

i dobn D, Peters

