104-10186-10082

ORMATIONSRER ORTAELNFORMATIONM!
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tats material contains information aecting the Nations! Defense of the Gaited Guates within tbe mecsing of the Mapivaage Lowe, THe
HRV BC Gece THI aod THA the Uenemieeica of revelation of which th any manner to an unauibeired pero te pronitttes by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

country Cuba : : REPORT NO. = CSCI-316/00555-65
suuect "Julio" (an alias) a OATE DISTR. 68 February 1965
R NO. PAGES a
TURN To © cla rererences -«C5~311/00115-64
* DoNot pe Use Only Beeay 1964
uly
pare 964 Paproduon
ptace aWashington, D. C.
Date aca, January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.
NUIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 3 TENTATIVE.

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE OBADINGS ARE OF)
source,A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

‘Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency,

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1, "Julio" is the Ecuadorian desk officer in the Seccion Sur
(South American Section) of the Departamento de Liberacion
Nacional (National Liberation Department - LN) in the Direcciorn
General de I,teligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2. “Julio was born about 1940. He is about five feet oight
inches tall, weighs between 155 and 160 pounds, and has a strong
build, “Julio is Caucasian, has a light complexion, blond hair,
and green eyes. He resides on L Street, between 23rd and 25th
Streets, Vedado, Habana, Cuba (in front of the ilabana Hilton

Hotel). 1

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on "Julio."

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

‘STATE Tow Taray NAVY Tae
REP CINCLANT CINCSO # TENS
‘Hotes Field diibution indicates by “BD

mene

=

{CSCI =311
— i eens

[wat /WANE
roracs WH/SA & (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

ate
