104-10186-10334

eee CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY &.

TEESE Sets Inrermation azecting the Nauncal Oetenee of the United States within the meaning of the Explor
MESS Gwe TS and FC the transmission ce reematica of which In any MANter {0 an UnaUInorLeN! perwon te probibited by law

S~E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

country Cuba * nepoRT NO. CSCI-316/02286-65
SUBJECT Direceton General de Inteligencia pate ste = 1 June 1965. :
1) Perso 1 5
‘ersannel Abroad : ae 1 RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

REFERENCES, Do Not Reproduce

DATE OR 1964

INFO.

MACER Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ-(y) a oer ws FIELD REPORT NO.

fer8 #3 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE.

source A former Cuban 15 officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964,

1, fhe Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI) overseas field-station chief has no respon-
sibility for physical or other security of the Cuban Embassy oF
Mission, nor does any member of his staff.

2. The DGI would not use a regular foreign-service officer in the
field because he has not been cleared and briefed and is not,
therefore, considered qualified for intelligence tasks. If a
foreign-service officer is briefed, it may be assumed that he
has ‘been cleared and that he is thereafter considered a member
of the DGI (at least by the DGI). On returning to Havana per-
manently, Such a foreign-service officer briefed for a field
assignment normally would be sent to DGI Headquarters rather
than to the Ministry of Foreign Relations,

s 8
4 4
: S-E-C-R-E-T 3
: NO FOREIGN DISSEM 2
i
[sare ba ARwr Trev ta TNA Tam a

REPCINCLANT _CINCSO # _ISNS
Mote: tric gismibution indicated by “

gE hater NP (AMMUG-1)
Ge TT +i x CSCI-316/02286-
i RID-AN

sf EE im | Searwe ae
@), Cr 4, RID ary | B: fe

R&A

apd

Tae
