# 104-10178-10059

## Page 1

104-10178-10059

- 09077

408+9476958-999

LASSIFY TO NIL NO .

a It! 10 FiLI NO

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

POUTING

IMWAVE

ACTION.

INa

VIR,

BARID COPY

( CUPY ISSUCO TO: IN AND SDO AT 2115 OM)

500 4,

CI/PS, RI/Ad, WH 8, HALE 12.

FILE,

ADDP.

.CA Z. CAPEO, CA/PROP, COPS, ONCE. A A/D, M/INI6

JUDETED AND CONTROL COPIRE

MATCHA

•S E C.RE T 892259Z

21-142

PRIORITY DIR INFO PRIORITY PACR

LATt

•CARR CITE PICT

INTEL TYPIC

at wave 3807

(ABSTRACT X

SUPDATA: ANELETE-15 WHO ASSISTCO IN PROCUREMENT OF GUNS.

FIELD COMMENT BASED AMTABEY-27. RID INDEX: FILED: 8922592

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLCO DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ? PLAN OF NESTOR GONZALEZ (OR GARCIA) TO REENTER CUBA AND

SABOTAGE A CUUAN TRAIN

D01: EARLY JULY 65

PARA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 JULY 65)

MICROFILMED

JUL 3 0 1965

DOC. MICRO. BER

UFG 7351

SOURGE!

A CUBAN REFUGEE WIO HAS MANY CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN EXILE

IW COMMENT.

WH/C

WIt/REG

RELEASING I WO

901 - 300985

IDCS D6-315/02341-65

600

DATE DISTRIBUTED

10 ULY 0217 Z 65

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

BASED ON UFG-7351

LAISON *

N/AMELEVE/15

AD CAND

Comy Ne

3/SR

'RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

1d-0000

CLASSIFY TO PILA NO .

CLASSITIRO MESSAGE

SECRET

HE HD D

HIT TO MANCH O

DESTROT D

sno 002te pomal

AQ 149

ROUTING

ПОм

ACTION

INO.

I RID COPY

VA PLE ADOP, CA A CAPEO, CAPROP, Q/OPS CAEZ A R/O. PANT

PAGE 2 IN $S627

ACTIVISTS. PREVIOUS REPORTING FROM THE REFUGEE HAS PROVED TO BE

FAIRLY RELIABLE.

. ""

W COMMENT.

TOCS

TROUTINE

BASED ON

PRIORITY

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTEO

LIAISON

SECRET

17 A, 17000 A0I

•' REPRODUSTION BY OTHER TMAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIRITED.

Copy No

---

## Page 3

CUNTIUEIVIIAL

00196 t00 80 =8

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INA

CENTRAL INTRLLIOINCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

QUBA

PLAN OF NESTOR GOIZALEZ (OR GARCIA) TO REENTER CUBA

TO SABOTAGE A CURAS TRAIN PI

PLACE A

DATE ACO• UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 JULY 1965)

NO FORLIEN DESSER CONTROLIO DESSE

• PRIORITY

TOEs 08-315102341-65

DISTR 10 JULY 1965

_RE

N /8627

FELD REPORT NOL UFG-8351

APPRAISAL A CUBAN REFUGEE WHO HAS MANY CONTACIS AMONG CUBAN EXILE ACTIVISTS. PREVIOUS

REPORTING FROM THE SOURCE HAS PROVED TO BE FAIRLY RELIABLE.

- 1. NESTOR GONZALEZ OR GAPCIA, UHO LEFT CUSA IN EARLY JUNE 65,

PLAPIS TO RETURN TO CUBA ON VEEKEND OF IE-II JULY OR THE EARLY

PART OF THE FOLLOWING WEEK IN OFCER TO ELM UP A CUSAN TRAIN. THIS

HERETION IS SAND LINE TY THE CYAN ERESE AT ON IN HER EARSE)

IN A 25-FCOT EERTRAY EQUIPPIO WITH A 2IE-HURSEFOHER INSOARD EMBINE AND

PROICED TO CAY SAL WHERS HE WILL DISEMEARK. AT CAY SAL NESTOR PLANS

TO MEET SEVERAL GRITISH NEOPCES UHO HAVE BEEN PAIO TO HIDE HIM UNTIL

HE IS PICKED UP BY A CUEAN FISHINS EOAT. NESTOR WILL THEN PROCED

TO CUEA AND PLANS TO CUTEP THOSLIH HAVANA, THE SASE WAY THAT HE CAME

intel seatro munio the meaning sel the Espiona

prudabred by law,

NO FORLACH DISCH, CRUTROLICD DISSCIN DO

CONFIDENTIAL

STATIO

IRASUR DA

ARAT/ACSI NAVY

AM SCI

SE CLE

FBI LENS

CUSTOMS

"ROTER PATROL"

---

## Page 4

I TRESS DISIN CENTROLLO DISREN IN

CONFIDENTIAL

IN futaT

TDCSOB-315/02341-69

PREVIOUSLY INVOLVED WITH ROGERTO ALEJOS ARZU, I GUATEMALAI

MILLIONAIRE, WHOSE ATTEMPT TO OVERTHRUN THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT

ASERTED IN MAY 65. ANOTHER SOURCE WIIO IS REGARDED AS RELIABLE

REPORTED ON I ILY THAT SIERRA LOPEZ AND GUSTAVO ERRANDEZ RAVELO

WERE PREPARING TO MAKE A TRIP TO CAY SAL TO MEET SOMEONE WHO WAS

COMING OUT OF CUSA TO DISEUSS MONEY MATTERS WITH THEM.. FERNANDEZ IS

SCLIEVED TO HAVE ACCESS TO A 24-FOOT BOAT EQUIPPEO WITH ONE 225

HORSEPOWER INBOARD ENGINE AIE TWIN 28-HORSEPOWER MERCURY OUTBOARDS.

THIS CRAFT CARRICS FLORIDA REGISTRATION FL- 6638-F AND ON 25 JUNE.

WAS SEEN AT THE PRIETO ALTO SERVICE, 732 NW TTH AVE., MIAMI.)

Z. NESTOR PLANS TO TAKE WITH HIM FOUR 9-MM SUBMACHINE GUNS WITH

GES" ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION, FOUR ROLLS OF TIME FUSE, FOUR TIME DELAYS,

AND 58 POUNDS OF PENTOLITE, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE PENTOLITE,

ALL OF THE EQUIPMENT WAS PURCHASED CHEAPLY FROM THE CUBAN REVOLU

TIONARY JUNTA (JUNTA PEVOLUCIONARIA CUEANA, JURE). A FIFTH

SUSMACHINE GUN, WHICH WAS INCLUDED IN THE PURCHASE, IT TO BE KEPT

BY SIERRA LOPEZ.

30 FIELD DISSEM: INCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, IANS, AND USCG. (ALSO

SENT PANANA CITY.)

16-7

MRS I-d 1001

PAOE 2

CONFIDENTIAL

59, 108 96 M1 92 Me

ENT OF MESSAGE

ON TELEN RESET, CONTROLED SIS

"AS.

1/SR

---

