o4-0235-(0008

COHPIDENTIAL

Chief, Task Yorce 7 x

Chiof of Station, JHVAYE
INPEL/GYROAS/RUCAGE = AMNUO-1 Production
\ } Study of PBRUMEN Eefugeos Arriviag in PRPRIME

ACTION REQUIRZD: FYI

1, AMBUD-1 vas requested to presare a atudy on the
rofugoes who vere ond are arriving in PEPRIHZ, It is rather
general ia mature, ip based on information ottained fron
records at tho Cuban Refugue Center, and aay have soce valuo

to KUCAGE,

5 2, Ths arrival of refugees cam be divided into five .

waves ince 1959, The firat wave occurred in 1959, the i
gecoad from January to February 1960, the third from Rovomber
1980 to the ecauer of 1901, the fourth from the summer of
1061 to February 1962, end the fifth in March to Juno 1063,

- In addition eines the suseer of 1961 many rofugees have boon H
arriving in su2ll boata. From Juno 1961 through 30 April 1962, i
2,165 mon, women and children hayo mado the voyage in 234 boats. t
Thess individusis genorally belong to tha tower social classes,
havo quall personal inconcs, and are generaliy membors of the
common laborer, fara yorker, fishormas or carpentor clase,

a eae

3. The following characteristics certain te the in-
Gividuals who make up the five wavos described above:

a. First Wave 1939: Politicians, high functionaires j
Of ths government, Armed Yorcea officers of nreve ;
important

i fous Goveranents and brsineasmer who had '
‘ cenmercial relations with tho prior dictatorship, :
{ Theso were fev in number, Approximately 3,000.

b. Second Wave Jan-Feb 1960: A and B Seeis) Classes, t
Tko richost' families, owners of sugar allis, lergo i
cattle ranches, large sugar ostates and H
industrics. Hote: On October 14, 1980, 382 PRINIME ‘
couganies vere conpletely or cartially nationalized :
by the PBEUMEN Government, Esticated sumber of y
arrivais 7,000,

(cont inuad)
Distributica:
3 = iqs 18 July 62 1 23 Gey
UPGA-4814 ‘
: testes i
CONFIDERTIAL 3-4-7 ;
! l= RY TS/Reots. Oliver KE, PAPOCK/dnal
t 1 = (19-4-132)
| 1 = 18/Repts :
ie 1 = 18/2
f l- PW c/rH Robert K, TROUCHARD

c/18 Lloyd ¥, STORBECK

| ac/wave *'* "andrew K, REUTEUAN


? CONVFIEDZNTIAL UPGA-4814

e. Third Wave Rov 1960-3unnor 1961: A, B and the
upper part of Clase C. Frofessionals of all
Rkiods, directors of companion, executives, stock
evaers, and ownera of businesses, techaicians
ef all kinds, publicity, merchants, journaliste,
radio and television, ezecutives aad personnel of
tho middle class, insurance brokers, moncy lendera,
inportora, reprorcntatives and agents of FBPRIWE
firza which exported to FBRUXEN, farm owners,
persons whose iocomes wero derived from urban
properties, owaere and executives of banks,
ounors of medium sixcd cattle ranches and gugar
Plantations. Estimated number of arrivals 56,000.

4. Fourth Vave Summer 16931-Feb 1462: C and D Social
+ Classes... fmall businesazen, office exployees,
{actory. workers, techoicians and semi-techaicians,
emall. technicians, craftemen, [etimated number of
arrivals 59,000,

e. Fifth Wave Har-June 1962: During the last four
or five moaths the type of refugees which artived
by plane have leas education, less preparation
and knovledge of English, and a lower cultural
level, XYetinated suber of arrivais 32,000,

4. The table belov shows representative figures: for the
five waves, the relationship betvoen estinated arrivals aid
those actually going through the Aduissions Center, and a general
conparigon of parceatages of the various social groupe in
PERUAEN pricr to and folloving the new regime:

Yaves Period . Actual Eatinated
. Registration Arrivals
at tho Center ia Papal
. round figures)

1 Year 1689 - 3,000
a dan.-Cct. 1960 - oo 7,000 H
3 Nov. 1960-Sumaer 1961 38,000 86,000
4 Sammer 1981-Feb. 1962 56,000 88,000
8 Hareh = June 1962 30,000 32,000

Taz;000 IET,009

Estimated Breakdown by Socio Rcouomic Groups
Socio-Economic Breakdown in Arrivals io Arrivals io

seer mm
coa wD bm
\

| COWPIDENTIAL z a



COU PUIDESTIAL UPOA-4514

Husber of Individuals y

ale a

0a Ss mh

10,000 2,@00 :

30,000 3,600

65,009 11,200 x
:

20,000 19,200 ;

138,005 53,000 f

SD OF DISPATCH

COBPIDERTIAL

