# 104-10095-10049

## Page 1

104-10095-10049

2110°

SEE DISGEM BY.

_ PEN. LA

8E.9

TOTAL COPIES 10 - 3 RUN EY

SECRET

SON/UNI NOTIFIED

COMY

MONUNIT

EUEDISLOTTED C

RE. FILE

A 3

ICT

N

F

- T 420203

EL AD 12

VR 0/D01, 2DO 3, 0S/RF

EVES ONLY

PAGE 01

TOR: 302349Z NOV 76

LEADE

PEPRODUCTION

AY OTHER

THAN

SUING OFFICE I8-PROMIBITED

STARF iDi

BUSALA

TN 115271

MEXI

38565

SECRET 302317Z NOV 76 STAFF

SITE MEXICO CITY 38565

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL

RYBAT

PL VW CADET

REF: DIRECTOR 950609 (attached)

'1, HOUSE COMMITTEE INVESTIGATORS DID NOT CONTACT

STATION AS OF 1ODD HOURS BE NOVEMBER.

2, EVEN PRIOR TO RECEIPT OF REFERENCE STATION HAS

UNDERTAKEN SEARCH OF ALL FILES WHICH MIGHT CONCEIVABLY STILL

CONTAIN INFO RELATING TO OSWALD PRESENCE IN MEXICO CITY IN

1903, SEARCH STILL CONTINUING AND WILL ADVISE RESULTS.

3, REGARDING PARAGRAPH A OF REFERENCE, WISH PROTEST

IN STRONGEST TERMS AGAINST PROPOSED FULL PUBLIC DISCLOSUPE

OF AGENCY HOLDINGS RELATING TO OSWALD ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO

AS PROPOSED IN REFERENCE, WHILE WE WOULD HAVE NO OBJECTION

TO DETAILED AND TRUTHFUL SUMMARY OF OSWALD ACTIVIYIES AS

SUCH, THE OFFICIAL REVELATION OF OUR LLATSON RELATIONSHIP,

JOINT OPS AND AGENT TRUE NAMES INCLUDING POSSIBLE IDENTITY OF

LESSEE OF HOUSES USED FOR PHOTO SURVEILLANCE WOULD HAVE

DEVASTING IMPACT HERE, IT WOULD EMBARRASS OUR FRIENDS, DELIGHT

SECRET

---

## Page 2

3-91 NFG. 217B

• *

ARE SEC DISSEN EY.

_ PAR

'ERSON UNIT NOTIFIED_

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

N BY

IRVANCE COPY

INGUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

- AT

Z

RF. FILE

VR .

N

ACTION I

T

42 02 03

EL AD 12

PAGE D2

TOR: 302349Z NOV 76

OUR ENEMIES, REDUCE UTILITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF ONGOING

OPERATIONS AND EXPOSE NEW LOPEZ PORTILLO ADMINISTRATION TO

BARRAGE OF QUESTIONING ABOUT

WHETHER

SUCH

STILL CONTINUING AND SO FORTH.

4, IN OUR JUDGMENT ANY SUCH OFFICIAL REVELATION OF

WITH

MAY EFFECTIVELY TERMINATE

ROBADGER AND

SIMILAR ACTIVITIES, IN THIS CONNECTION SEE

618112196)

MEXICO CITY 38523

DA TED

NOVEMBER WHICH REFERS TO PROBLEM

WE MAY ALREADY BE FACING WITH NEW MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT.

'IT SHOULD BE REMEMBERED THAT TELEPHONE TAPS IN MEXICO ARE

UNCONSTITUTIONAL, AS MINIMUM, OFFICIAL STATEMENT ABOUT

JOINT OPERATIONS WOULD CONFIRM THE WRITINGS OF PHIL AGEE

AND JOSEPH SMITH,

5, IT ALSO SEEMS TO US THAT SUCH STATEMENT WOÜLD BE

IN VIOLATION OF OUR OBLIGATION TO PROTECT SOURCES AND METHODS.

IF AGENCY CAN RELEASE INFO ON SENSITIVE SOURCES AND METHODS,

AND PUBLICIZE PAST OPERATIONAL RELATIONSHIPS WITH SPECIFIC

INDIVIDUALS, IT IS DIFFICULT TO SEE ON WHAT GROUNDS WE COULD

GRITIZE THOSE WHO MAKE SIMILAR PUBLICATIONS FOR THEIR OWN..

PURPOSES, WHICH TO THEM, MAY

SEEM EQUALLY LEGITIMATE.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAI

ISSUING

OFFICE IS

PROMIBITEO

STAFF

2

IN 115271

MEX!

38565

---

## Page 3

14-00000

5i 902i0°

)

P's is..

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

SONUNIT NOTHED

TANCE COPY

TION UNIT

ISSUED/SLOTTED

RF

N

T 420203

ISSUING

STAFF

BY

AT

FILE.

VR

ELAO 12

PAGE 03-03

TOR: 3023497 NOV 76

IN 115271

MEXI

38565

6, IN SUM, WE BELIEVE THAT ANY PUBLIC DISCLOSURE

ALONG THE LINES DE PARA FOUR OF REF WILL GET US INTO EVEN

MORE TROUBLE THAN WE ARE IN AT PRESENT WE VOLUNTEER JUDGMENT

THAT WE ARE IN THE TROUBLE WE ARE IN BECAUSE AT TIMES IN PAST

WE SEEM TO HAVE FORGOTTEN THAT WE ARE AND SHOULD BE AN

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, PROPOSED REVELATION OF TA YSON

RELATIONSHIP, TRIALI OPS AND AGENT TRUE NAMES WOULD CAUSE

WIDE-SPREAD SKEPTICISM THAT WE ARE IN FACT INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY • E•2, IMPDET,

5 €

---

