# 104-10186-10150

## Page 1

104-10186-10150

SINFORMATION REPORTE

HINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CS C1-316/02286-65

SUMECT

Direccion General de Inteligencia DATE DISTR.

(DGI) Personnel Abroad

1 June 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. (March 1965)

•FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who sorved with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

2.

The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI) overseas field-station chief has no respon

sibility for physical or other

security of the Cuban Embassy or

Mission, nor does any member of his staff.

The DGI would not use & regular foreign-service officer in the

has not been cleared and briefed and is not,

therefore, considered qualified for intelligence tasks.

foreign-service officer is briefed, it may be assumed that he

has been cleared and that he is thereafter considered a member

of the DGI (at least by the DGI).

On returning to Havana per-

manently, such a foreign-service officer briofed for a field

assignment normally would be sent

to DGI Headquarters rather

to the Ministry of Foreign Relations.

5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY.

I NAVY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO #

(Nore: fiald distribution Indicated by "#".)

_I&NS

I AIR

NSA

1 XI

IFBI

2

INFORMATION REPORT

AINFORMATION REPORT

WIC/CA

1E/5/R

TICI/DIA

1N-2182

WIC/31O

WE/STADR

1| CI/R&A

_NP (ANVG-1)

WHC/RE

WIIC/OS

5

15-7

CULI-316/02286-

WHIC/ WAVE

1

RID/AY

ON 401499148

TOTAL HIC 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

LIAISON

; +0

3

1

VIBR

---

