# 104-10326-10011

## Page 1

104-10326-10011

MAENO: 98-1247758

SECRET

-SENSIND: RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE :

CONF: LA

LIMITED, MDSX,

INFO: LA/DEFLT,

LA

ODPD, RYBAT, FILE, C/LA

98

1247758

ASP

TOT:

PAGE 001

231646Z APR 98

DIRECTOR 784515

SECRET

STAFF

TO :

PRIORITY

2316462 DIRECTOR 784515

FROM: LIMITED DISSEM LAL

(INFO LA/SA, LAI

STUGS:

WNINTEL RYBAT

* SUBJECT:

ISSUE

FURTHER ON

LITAMIL/9

<JEK ASSASSINATION>REVIEW BOARD

REF:

26721 98 0975333

TEXT:

1.

COB 4 MAY.

ACTION REQUIRED:

PLS PROVIDE INPUT TO BELOW ISSUES BY

APPRECIATE REF INFORMATION.

CURRENT PERSONAL STATUS OF

LITAMIE/° (T/3) IS GERMANE TO NEAR TERM REQUIRED INFORMATION

(BELEASE DECISIONS WITHIN THE<JEK>REVIEW PROCESS.

INTENT CONTINUES

TO BE TO PROTECT FORMER ASSETS TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE UNDER

*RIGOROUS LEGALLY MANDATED<JFK>RELEASE CRITERIA.

-ITOS TRUE NAME HAS ALREADY APPEARED IN BOOK "OSWALD AND THE

CIA "BY {JOHN NEWMAN,/ BASED ON OFFICIAL MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY

INADVERTENTLY RELEASED.

IN ATTEMPT TO LIMIT FURTHER RELEASE OF

IDENTIFYING INFORMATION WITHIN THE OFFICIAL DECLASSIFICATION

PUBLIC DOMAIN RICE EQUE PIED ON OMEN A PEN XO THES

COMMENTS (IN ADDITION TO

REF) RE FOLLOWING.

ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WHICH

ABLE TO PROVIDE WILL ASSIST IN JUSTIFYING DENIAL OF FURTHER

IDENTIFYING INFORMATION AT THIS TIME

(REALIZE

UNABLE TO ADDRESS OR OBTAIN INFO ON SOME OF THE

ISSUES, BUT WOULD

APPRECIATE WHATEVER YOU CAN COME

UP WITH, PARTICULARLY WITH

RESPECT TO ITEMS B,C, AND E.)

A.

CUBA).

ANY KNOWN(L/3 FAMILY/RELATIVES CURRENTLY IN MEXICO OR

LIKELY IMPACT ON L/D AND/OR

OPERATIONS RESULTING

*ESO MANET ON NO PURCE ON A HE ASSASSINAS ORMER ASSET,

C.

ANY PAST OR PRESENT

9, COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY WHICH COULD

SECRET

1

FRP

STAFF

LA/MSTB, LADORECORD,

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

RYBAT Z

MHANO):

98-1247758

-SENSIND :

BE ADVERSLY AFFECTED.

D.

PROBABLE RECEIPT OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT PENSION BY 1/9

REQUEST

THOUGHTS ON THE POSSIBILITY OF

RE-ESTABLISHING

CONTACT WITH &/?

LEAVE TOI

JUDGMENT IF OUTSIDE SOURCES CAN SAFELY BE

QUERIED WITHOUT DRAWING UNTOWARD INTEREST IN-E-9.

~55 CELLE: NONE. CT BY: 07I2052T EL-REASON: I-5(€), DECI

ONT KI, DRV FROM :

HUM 4-82.

CABLETYPE:

GECO STAFF 4.0.1.>

REINO :

DORELS0100945919

ORIG:

LIAL

747758); AUTH: C/IA/

C/LA

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE :

SECRET

2

---

