# 104-10006-10261

## Page 1

1104-10006-102611

SECRET

FROM: (Hea arora nano)O

A .W. BRASKO

BRANCH

ROOM

BADGE NO.

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

EXTENSION

DATE

RID CONTROL NO.

TO

TUBE

ROOM

RID/ INDEX

DT - 5

DATE

3/3/104

REQUESTER

INITIALS

Whem

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

RID/FILES

DT - 6

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS

GT - 7

RID/201

DW - 6

RID/MIS

SUAMAN W

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

VIVANOV

Ho bert

SPELLING VARIATIONS FrO ME

CHECKED 3015

Aleksandrovich

AKA. ALIASES

OTHER IDENTEXING DATA (occupation, 80x, CP menborship,

law school prostiate

CITIZENSHIP

USSR

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

perture cards and the dossier if a 201

he subject exist.

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

(b)[ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

ERSTONESM

YES

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

Note 2.

TRID

Information concerning forei

blic personalities (except mil

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

I DESK

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

