# 104-10074-10144

## Page 1

104-10074-10144

FROM:

BIn!

RIAN

SECRET

(WHEN ALLED INN)

IDP

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NOTAi In to abaarco al comment or Indicatton of setter

dereument in filand

COMMENTS

TO

8000 т

NO

DATa

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

WH 046 Barton

2u ore 612

Đ.

Caul/e

Ace

COPY DETACHEO

lubert faleste

COP'

EPRODUCTIONS

1O.

Terre

18.

14.

1Đ.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

COMMENTS

TO

n00м

NO.

lorcampan

8.

WN 046 Barton

4.

6071 The 1

Cạus/c

sión 102

Mcai

K

COPY DETACHED

into

Nubasts fallale

19 8

Turi

citant

19.

15.

10.

17.

10.

WH3/CARIG

30. RAD71

ANCLAUAR

or.

ACITRACT

INDIA

DATE MICHOFILMID

AIFAIL

FILE NUNGRA

211-215384

aseteget.sg

DOCUMENT NUMOgR

HOCA 01756

CEN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

FROM

MANCI

DISPATCH

BBORET

anfar, WID

16-3

Oa1al al Station, laxioo City)

Raz108 01

station, Haran

16-18

Chios as Station, (Cludad TrUj1L1)

Operatfonad

LIFAIL

20 Soptember 1999

+ 031

ICHECKN

'NE)

WARNED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JOCED

AT QUALIFIED HQ DESE DALY

Info. only

21-10

TRUJ/ 0662

LIPALL departed Cludad Trufillo at 0900 loure on 23 Soptsabas 1959, via PAA

Plight No. 432, due to arrivo in liari, Pla. at 150 hours on the ano date.

hold International Pacoport No. 478; 1ooucd by Dominican lmigration on 22 Septenber

1999, containing a U. 3. transit viase

SITAR?

2o LIPAIL was brought to thia Station Iato on tho arternoon in a Sopteabor 1959

by tho U. 3. Conaul, tho said ha had a crasy man we should talk to. No accapted tha

young man and tha Conaul demrted.

3o After boing cortain do to LIPAlL'o identity, efforto voro tado so cala him.

Ho paced the floor, wrung hie hande and breathed heavlly, otating sovoral thase that

ho mat got to Marleo City. Ho caid ho cano to tho Denialcan Ropuillo about 15 July

1959 fron Moxico City and roported to Gonoral Failaid, that Santiago Dry oent his.

FulZAZA sent hia to lan Caldoras, Dol. for training with colley.. Thoro vero about

one hundred Cubana and about to hundred othera at lao Caldero, all of unea vero

later transforted to Conoranca, Doll. for countain tralaina, la could bot breal down,

ha caid, tho nationalition of 200 nor cuban trainoon, cacopt to say that there samo

• Pen Brantardo. LIPAL cold ho lao given intensive training in tho uno, brealisa

and descably of light machino gum.

Afar three vesia of thio trainina, ha told a

dootor, Cuban, nano not known, that ho to having serious troublo with his left lane

ond had to got to a hospital in Ciulad Trujillo, Soon thoreaftor, the dootor, and

SIvo othors with the doetorig consent, inoluding LIPAIL, boarded a bus for Cindad

Trujillo and upon arrival oly coattored.

Ho had not coon the othero oinco. Thero

rould bo incorost in kire the domity of the doctor Tho dillear in charma at

Las Caldorso mo a Coloni

The officor tho tranaferred the trainees to Con

stanza, and do in chargo

there la a Yugoslav, nano not lmom, end de

called, "coronal Vucoray".

tatod, o cuban unan ho did not Inos aoked hia about his paooport

(This tao tot

Intonto sorO Vanquas, Dar TRuy 0637).

LIAH roplied that ho would tile hio paront

with his to lao Calderao but in foot ho put it in the botten of a valise, which ha

left in a olooot in hio hotol rom, than he roturned so cludad Frujillo, about

August 1959, he disoovored that hie pacaport had been otolen. lo quantioned ecuaral

of the Cubana living in the hotal and ons of then told hin to chut up, chas facepart

caro for the rovolution.

He then looked for fantlago REY uno, ha cloirad, too carpose

to havo gone to Headloo

City and returned to Cluded Frujillo by that tim.

not inderatand my RiY had not cong back. He united a fow dayu and then tolo onc

EXT, locating him in Hardoo City. RY aid ho could not com to Clad Trujillo at

that t1zs, oould not do anything for LIVAIL lemodiatoly and told LIPAll to mie.

LIPAll as questionod vigorouly shout the thait of hia pansport and he stuar to bia

BARD RI

20190

to leave the hoted and go back to training. IPAll than vent to Polla Unist, Inier

& Detaican Inalgration and, an such, sustatant to Join l. Also Caress, thor e

oradaton Intalligenoe. He said ho viaited URIRE soveral tiena and gave his several

/passport photes.

4/PV

19

---

## Page 4

14-00000

DISPATCH

SECRET

CHDca)-1796 Pago 2.

YO

FROM

ACTIN MOUNTO

28 Septsaber 1959

• 420

ICHACK YOU

MANITO ADA INCHING

HI: BORING HIQUIMO

8-@UA,19-00N0 DISO

panapart photos. URInE told LIPAll nothing dould bo dona uniona LIPAll obtalray

a Lotter fros FunAzA roquestinz the louanoe of doesntat 10a.

LIVAL than

violied tha Anorican Eatsody shero tha redoptloalor dirsated hia to the Atainlotrative

Thio lad not beon loom to the slation. The Ainiatrativo offloc said

la could not do anything for LITAIl and dent hin asy. LIPAll tban mont bade to

FRORARA ON URIER and pleadad with each to no Gra1l.

Ho vent to the Adaintatrativo

offices in tha Ensacay agals, ca 9 Soptember 1939, uno sent bia to tha U.B. Consul,

la anothar bullding, upon.

lin Earpoco, ha coplained, in poles to ta Babacey mao

to report that blo otolen paooport had turned up of Niea1, Floriday that a feload In

Mand, sho had boon inquiring rogularly at Imigration in Mlent, Calorboned IPAIL

and roported that the otolen pooport had been used by another to arter the U.9. :

Dat, he statod, no one would lioten to his and ho to afraid to tall too mois.

Do IMPAIL tO gonnaly frightenado lle orated ho had pald hia bozol b11l co

tho might of l sopranbor at sho sequent of tha dost alori, uno cold bin nor to ea

baaka that tho olori cald la had ordero to that offoot.

LIPAl enotrued tale to

DoSa that FENnAZA had co ordoral, la cald Cuban friendo had inforned hia las Farat

lad calored that no cora Cubana sould bo paraltted to leave tha Doataican Boyabl10

that Cubans sio had roported to FEmAll, at the latter! s requert, had been asmartel

to training with the codies or ba impriooned, that se ho, liPAll, had partlostated in

the training and had poen what so going on, PuRazA certainly vald nos parale lila

to leavo.

% Added to thio, IIPAIl ocated that SantLago REY had tOld FEDRAZA that ESPAIL

so en agont for tha American Elaooy in Horico City and that, cortainly, PrimAsA

bad ropestel thio to Dosinican Intelligenso.

He salated that a girl named ICIs,

soriang in Dontaican Intollizenso, liad told him to po croful so ho sus botag investa

todD that FrIARA iner that LIAIl had dealt sith coval Manlintal, In Out, h

mobably nicunderotoc the resoon for thie and undoubtedly had reported the 1nie

Elea to Dosinican Intolliganco, that friendo had sariad bia that plairolothes son lad

been making inquirica son hin at tha lo Hetal, LVAIl alco otated that ho tad se

portal tha thart of hio meport to the polloo. This Inforation rould outcatically

ba roferred by the salies to Doninien Intolligence.

Theao foots, plus hin not having

o saula, so pacapore or ochar identification, and hia 10icnoso, tado LIPAl comor

of tumentary arrost and ha sao afraid to be coon on the atrocto. His alothing and

to1lot artielon had boen piosed in tha room of a friend at sho hotol. le had Allo

1n billo of union 1i0 voro piaoed in tha siation cato atd ha van allowad to licop 420.

(into conoy so lator poturnod to LIPAIl and 659.30 ol 1t ras used to buy hão ai

In tho absonco of the Chior of Mission at the lins, his cecrotary

man anked about tho pooo101lley of temporasy coylun of a Cuban stional in the habane

for a for daye. The cecrotary stated that this could not be dona. (Putting LIPArI

In another hotel, apartsent house, or boarding house ma not possible buenuso of

otr1ot1z nicreed laus requiring a saula or other socoprablo identification).

O. After darimess, not inming that alca to do vith LIVAIl, ha sno talea to

cos" hace and properly provided fer.

Ho ras introduced under a faloe mamo, 0o a

fiend fro Cutel.

Tho cervanto vero allered to hear the tana information and

ah, erplaining tus ho had pot dond fer soylu in 0031 hono and sad otaying tharo

because of lack of fundo and during inguisy concerning hig pacoport.. The orladnal

of this otatesent do attached for Hoadquarter 'a recordo.

VP/

---

## Page 5

14-00000

DISPATCH

cartervo

SECRET

OIS ETCH SYMBOL AND NOTE

(HDCA-1756 Page 3.

HEADOUARTEN THE NO

TO

FROM

SPRACT

nate

ACTON MOUNTA

28 Sopteabor 1959

48 137

-ICHECK "N' ONE

MARRED FOR INDEXINO

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXINO CAN CE. JUDGED

AY QUALIFIED NQ DESE ONLY

DEFENCH!

alfAll was taken out late one night, woring

dark grandes and a cap, and

allowed to telophone hia friond, Huberto CANCIO Gonsales, unaa ho described ou a

formor It. Col. In the Cuban Maringo under BATISTA, and a former Cuban Attache in

washington.

CANCIO 18 a Cuban orto and was waiting for an lenigrant vies to the

Ho got the vlea and doprted Cludad Trujillo on 17 Septenber 195%

lo rewreated

by blial, cancio came in a tor to the yard of the babanay and delivored LirALo

personal possessions in the darkness of shrubbery, while COS stood nourby til the

dark to protoct histo

Othere who warned LIPAIL, he stated, In addition to CANCIO, word forsad,

the wito of laurcano IBARRA, Cuban, Living on Callo Paotour, near Avo. Indopantonsis.

IBARRA 10 employod by Vos Roninican to esto propaganda broadcaste to lubs nightly.

Toroza and LIFAIL's mothor are close friends. Another tho ramad biAl, tao dullo

ELIZALDB, Cuban, Living in tha Pas Hotel.

Jullo do a brothor of Ho murals, formar

Minioter of lar in Cuba, LIPAIL otated that santlago RIT, PO MIZALIS and Santiago

ALVAREZ (LIPAIL's unolo, In Medeo City) control or at loant have a great deal to do

-mith the Cuban arilos in Mar100.

1lo LIFAll too again taken out late at night and allored to oll Jullo ELIZALs.

The Latter e9ld that ono CANARA (Im), thon in Jullo's rom at the hotol, had cono

thing 8or INPAIL. CANDARA DOlEd that LIPAIL Oma to the hotal but 003 wald not per

LIPAL cald ho did not lao CANTARA, LIPALL eald ho cuppocal sat camina

bad a lotter and poolbly sons nonoy for hin, fraa lipallo molo, santiago altar.

(Thio mao piolied up the night boforo liPAll, doparted, at the ronidends of Find,

choro Jullo MarLiE ma looted. It proved to ba a letter and noma songy fica

BoRtiago ALVAREZ).

Do We bald a oonrorenon with laptain Michae of the las vill on the nice

0f La SoptenDer 1959.

This me arranged through the U.8. Laval Attacio, to roacho

the Captain'o Maoutivo officer.

The Captain out hia gig fer 000 and Cstendel every

O8 Caracas. ARter a fEa opondas roaria by C0S, tha lapiala cald, "you mas to di,"

Thie vas adaitted.

The Captala san told coctial foots without umecessary desailoo.

No sas told that sa had a young man on our tando tose posport ind tom otalang tas

tha san tas a Cuban and no cartainly cubjeot to arrest ond lamiconen ly Benindom

cursorition 11 so did not set him cuto

Ta Captain soled 11 tha request rado ca la

eas Imam to tha calar of micaden, 10s ocated that the cular of Micalon tad bos in

forted by ous that he sould volt him (Captain), but the dolor baira tabea too calaly

abas of dust that nalthor tro Calal of Minsica ver the Ilaaion emia Do involval.

(ita enios of Miasica lad marienly co advised cos).

Its Captain to asked to tate

LIal aboard, just bosore cha chip called ca the follenng lady vering, transl

1n a sallorio mit an allo bia to leave tho chip at Guantarco Bag, Tila too

aloonsoed thoronghly.

the Captain cald that tho Chief of licaion would b obeard the

chip nart dsy for lunsay tine all ho santed una a mining sailo from tha lades al

N160108,

lato the fallering afternon, lunay, 13 Bartennes, tha Clot of Miesie

1nscnni do that tha plan and set so thronga, that 16 lad to be abanderedo 1a

peralility of tying mint out 10 the laval Manies plane to Aloonaoed with tha

Catal of Micaton, but hia position un that naithor ha vor any cleans of the Miesion

sould partialito in the meter, and that 009 should hanile the Froblade

13. It sa undoabtedly

VRJ

---

## Page 6

14-00000

DISPATCH

CUTI RATION

SECRET

O

DISPATCH SIMBOL AND NO

(HDCA) 1756

•MEADOUA RIDES FILE NO

FROM

ACTA IN ArQUIENO

23 Septenber 1959

JT-ICHECA E ONE

MARRED FOR INDININO

NO INDEMINO LIQUIRIO

INDIMINO CAN ER AUDGED

BY QUALFIED MQ DESK ONLY

130 It 10 undoubiadly trus that cantiago RIT'o friandonip for 011v0r CALDOSD

eso tho catalyot in the cotiona talen to ovaduato IlPAll..

CALEOND to ESY to Frol

BOSQUE SO FRASE DOSA EO FEmAZA sao tho chalo.

00g bad o long talk cath 8uaa2s and

FERE Sosa ca tha aftarnoon of 19 Eopicbor 195% FiRta Soca 1o a tronblo chesica

and contaot enn for tha Canorallo0120, Aa ouar ho dela e ercat deal vita ABbra.

After non talk and oevoral soundo of otratara uniakoy, PalARA firally consonood

to agros to tho donzentation and doparturo of LiPAlle

than Cos opercacied Furara

and FECE DORa, ChO EStECI Of LIPALL'O departuro lad not bean deosdado

FainAzA saa

otubborn and Piat Boss tas saly.

Thero lad to ba nuah eald by C03 about, "no ong

caldior to another", end "honor botuon ald coldiora", oto. Tha breal comed to con

thon 009 cald, "Qanaral, I would lavo done thio for your coa", (Tha 2000 of lão con

1o a fonder opot.) Tha denoral gulpod a atraigat ober el valakay and Loured his te

ca hio bando.

timad to esy, No vant to ba puro talo san ia not a inalata" la io anguel comu

Esma and told that 003 kne LIYAIL whan the Latter worked for EAC in Bavan (usci

10 not true).

Tho On tho corning of 21 Sopteabz, not having hard fro Frinzi over tha tec

Ga, C00 V151001 ABI.

(FeinarA callod lator and sid ha lad coca ABa). AEsi

Boled cary quastiora about MIlAl, Malay wro olthor anneral footually withous cay

volation of coourity, or succonosully cadete lle orated tica that ha lad infosa

Thio mas vigoualy desiodo After o

confcrenda al ovor on hour Alata est ha toula approvo cho documentation ond capastora

of LIrAIl, and spula so norsty tha Clor of Inigmation, IRIS. (URIES ta thon et o

Lapital chara bio uiso ne diving barôn to a babyo.

to MirO. URTES)• ABBES to alao acoured that 003 knew ITAIl whan tho lateor mag 62

ploged by FRAC.

tatica uno bega. LIAI a Lourd on Interrational Pacapurt ant en cale parcito la

mvo bio ogo do 24 and ho conuation on "otedonto, inilo 60s ran buay sich coo clei

ITAlL told chosnco olori thai ho uno foing to liant and Maxies City.

Finio could tot

bo changed, although li to triod. 003 had hoped to chou that LIPAli sas golEg to

Minal caly, en a tourlot vies.

Ião Al tha UoD, Consulato, diocuica Laving bean marioualy had ulta tho Consul

a Vica COnul puL A tranaii TEa In IMPArLO paDapOrt, Roquot to bada fo o totaL

Fica visioni curecas.

Tho queation of INVAlL not having o Marlean vita tg Alcusoe

salta tho Vico Cenoul. lla anower san "not your ran on tha vay and danie bother ebout

o linican vies" lo capiained that to upply for a lionican ulra toald tean coveral

dayo barcro ita leaganas and that tha lascan Entanoy would quin LIPARl assastio

no to thy ha lad sona to the Deninioan Romubhlo, ung he lad beon in Merles and way ha

wanted to rotur

---

## Page 7

14-00000

DISPATCH

3 KCRET

CHEJATCH SYRAGON ANCO SEO

(HDCA).1758

Page 5

MADONARTIES THE NO

10420

FROM

DATE

28 Septcaber 1959

"AJ-J' - (CHECK "N" ONE)

MARKED FO! INDENING

NO INDELING REQUIRLO

INDEMINO CAN $E JUDORD

#Y QUALILO HQ DISH ONLY

ACTION dAQUID

REFERENCRISI

santed to return to Mazico, and protably ook other questions, "that you (003) don't

caro to tavo ansvorci".

Thosefore, tho idea of a Mosican vica to dropped.

Consul ctated that unleso ho sent LIPAIl'o application for a vica to lisohington for

olcarance, 003 could tavo to furnich the Consul a manorandus containing the otato

conco ho opporried.

The manorandun sad furniched and a carbon copy lu attached for

Headguarter's informatioa.

1% At tha Fau Amorican Ainaya tlokat offico tho manager 10 a Daminican, Alter

a cany tickor to Minia1 had been pronaoed fron ona of tha clorka to bol ra

quotions, tha carager piched up tha desummo, reviewed than on caid, "Thie van 1o

going to lanieo, lo doça not have a Merican vica and ha 10 not tiolatel to Marloa".

co3 offored to buy o ticket on through to laxico C1ey, but the tanager sid that

could not to dory without tho lionican vies.

C03 then offered to buy ITAl a roun

trip slobot, Clutra Trujillo to Minai and reuro, bur tho mages fortaci becamsa

InFAIL had o tranoit vios and not o toulot vica, dug thon 1iom181ed binali Do cr

Diseay officerjand caplained that LIAIl would bo nat ty a U.0, offioial in Mam

sno could taby caro of costing a Marican vlos and tielating LIPAIT, on to Merloo Casy.

The manager than demanded a lotter, ca Micaica lottortoad, tha tenna of which ha

ciated, to proscor fill againat tho pocsibility of a 81000 8im.

No would not saleace

tha toot without the ocree lus prome une lottor and delivered doo

by 003 could ba brought into the opan.

Thoro sas no othor course to take under tha

circmatances. A copy of the lotter 1a atrached for Headquarter'e Inforaticne

10o When LIPAll, tao at tho airport for departuro, donaral FanAza and of Least

818teen othar Cubans varo on hand to ces hin off.

Ora Cuban cohed LITAN, Fat sale

Jou chargo for the ocoros", 003 nodded lo PRIMAZA and utoad in tha background, Mem

LIZAIL Loft ho lad 050 U.D. dollara and $2 Dollinican Fasco. (Thio suo rado up of tia

talanco of hio original 1100, plua tha reminder of 8100 ha had recolved frea big

uno lo 1n Want, out of vAlah ho paid 01l sana Indobtednono to FlIRAZA'a Destetasy,

which ras not queationed)

9 + LIPAIL Bao quissed thoroughly and often sa to that to my tave leamed a

so Caldarao, in Cludad Frujillo, end Iras otbar Cubars in gerarado It appeara Cha

ho learned littlo, unlona ha chona to recervo hia rovolationa for poreons in llenico

Citye lo caid hin experienso ot lan Caldero ian dull and that ho nired vory 11601a

with othorog that 1t tas trining, esting and alooping that ho did not go to Con

ofanzs and Imma nothing about 1t, tist thoro 1a no Cuban exilo Leaderahip el

osquenco in tho Desinican Bopabllo Otbos than FEDRAZA, to hia lamlodgo. la cyrosacl

tha idea that do Cantiago PrY did not retura to Cidad Iruj1120, REY Ond INARA Eay

tavo had differonaco. Mo had no cvidenco of this. LIFAlMO considenca el a Gracase

fal tanion of tuna by exiles 1u caro. it oppora that the tim ho opant 10 tha

Dominican Rembllo sao unprofitablo. It can bo curned up, in so for on this Statio

Laws, so trainins vien orlos, during which ho learned nothing al intolligenso valua,

and five took of idleness during unich hs puffered anzloty over hie utalen masapert

and possible arrest with 1ta feared consequenced.

CONISIT: LIPAIL 18 0

z/MV

---

## Page 8

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLALGNCATION

SECRET

OISPATCH SAMBOL AND ME

HDCA -1756

HEADQUARTIES PILE NOC

Page 6

TO

INNO

FROM

SUBICI

TOATi

ACTION PIQUIRIO

MESEOENCEISI

28 Septeaber 1959

MARKED FOR INDEKING

NO INDETING REQUIRED

INDEXINO CAN dE JUDOED

Y QUALIFIEO NO DESK ONIY

20. COPINI: LIrAlL 10 a bright young man who displayed culturo. and good

cannero.

He was gonuinaly appreolative for the asaistance given him.

It should ba'

undorstood howover, that he 1s immaturo and, in the face of come clement of danger,

in the a frightened little boy.

The Dosinican Repubilo 1a orual, conscienoclose

and extreraly dangerous for old handa and such a novice has no chanos.. It has beon

the quick undoing of more assoned men. It la balloved that the thait of LiPall'e

psoapart can ba conaldored edvantagoous. If ho had stayed on in the Dominican

Ropubllo, without experienoing the loud us his ransport, it 10 a enfo comption that

ho would

have becond ouapoot, arrestod and thiaked off to prison.

Torture would

have broken him gulakly.

He should not roturn to the Dominican Republio under any

drounatances, and ho was oo informed ephatloally.

Arine

RICHARD F. ARVILLE

Attachaenta

lo Statemant by lIFAl ro nut seeking asylu

2, lotter to Consul requesting vina

Зo Intter to BlA

23 Septembar 1959

Distributions

3 = Hgs. v/atta usa

1 = tarana so atto.

1 -Berdog w/o atte

16-3

z/V

---

## Page 9

14-00000

8a P6а pon

AA AO

FIOM

DARI

ACTION MIQUISIO

28 Septeaber 1959

"41-J" - (CHECH "I' ONlI

MARRED FOR INDEXINO

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEMINO CAN BE AUDGED

@Y QUALIFIED MQ DESE ONLY

20€

OOMaT: LIrAll ls a bright young man who diaplayed oulture and good

mannars.

He was gonuinoly approojative for the asslatance given hir.

It should be

understood however, that he 10 trature and, in the face of some alomant of danges,

10 11ko a frightened little boy.

The Dominican Rapublio la crual, conscienolo

and extrenoly dangerous for old hando and ouch a novioe has no chanco. It han been

the quick undoing of moro seasoned men. It la belloved that the thoit of LiPaTio

paaaport can ba conaldered advantagoous.

If ha had stayed on in the Domindcan

Rapubllo, without expertonoing the load or hio passport, it 10 a aalo cucuuption that

ho would have becond suspect, arrated and whisked off to prison.

Torture would

have broken him quiolly.

He shoud not return to the Doninican Republio under any

ciromatances, and ho was so informed aphatloally.

RICHARD Y. ARVILLS

Attachmants

do Statenent by LifAll ro not rooking asylu

2o Lottor to Conaul requenting

vlas

3o Lotter to PlA

28 September 1959

Diatribution:

3 = Hqo. s/atta uno

I - Havans so atto.

1 - 001100)1/088780

16-3

erase

UT FERMIOUS EDIT.ON

CLASLINICATION

---

## Page 10

14-00000

ese

АПАсносег

175%

9 Saptember 1959

Hoy vina a la Embajada a roportar el robo do us

pacaporto, al cual fuo unado por alguica para viajar a

1oa Eotados Unidos. Enccntró al sellor Raed en la

Embajada a guión habia conosido en la Habana danda

trabajo con aRAC. El sañor Rood dijo que 61 mandaria

menanjos a los Estados Unidoa para ayudarza o ocnaaguir

mal pasaporte.

lo pido collo y no lo neconito. Por falta de dinero

y dobido a ni aniatad oca ol caller lead, 61 sa ofre016

hospedaje on su casa por unos dise durante aus

avoriguacionos subre mi pasaporte ceno un favor que 61

no concedo.

06

---

## Page 11

14-00000

586.:

2525788:059.09999

441815

28 Septembar 1900

Hiro Harry Loften,

Volo Canoe

I tato catained Datonational Fanapore No. 478 cad an Exit Porale

for orlando fedro Rodrigos Alvarea, fra lainican Ingration, I bara

aleo obtainsa a Pin mariony 610bat for Rodrigas Ind lo 1181 Lena

caudad fragillo en plight lo, 132 at 0000 hours, 1s Deptator 1000.

end be handlod projoriy fra toronto ly enacalatag c1l8 2000 his at

Volo Lagration in llin1 c11 to coro el the catalie, Edriguey vial

Por tha granting of a vieS end I Drand fully remoniora 8or bes ea

tho eat el suriaz the vies. tie Consulate in clarined in toto ty

in thie matter®

---

## Page 12

14-00000

F Araanm 291

06 Art

---

## Page 13

14-00000

DISPATCK

Chiof, Spocial Affairs Staff

CLABBNICATION

mie

INFO

PROCEBBINO

actiOn

MACKED FON MCKE

N9 RECLAIRA REQUIRED

HEADQUAITENS CLER

CAN SUCCI FADEXINO

AESTRALT

• Chios of Station, MANAVE J

" TYPIC/Operational

Tormination of AMTABBY Personnol

ACYIÓN MQUIREO REFLAENCEA

ACTION REQUIRED: Cancel POAs

REFERENCE:

A. WAVE 0026, 27 October 62

B. DIR 03390, ü Decenber 62

C.. DIR 03464,

6 December

62

D. - DIR 16625, 9 February 63

1.

The following individuals

the

were on natandby basis with

ANTABBY Group and have been terminated effective I Any 1963.

Jose Miguel CARVAJAL Gonzalez.

201-291915

Armando CABALLERO Parodi

201-284805

Antonio SOTO Vazquez.

201-294544

Alberto PEREZ Martiner.

201-282574

2. CABALLERO, SOTO and PEREZ have hecH Kenned FOAM. per

Refs B, C and D respectively.

A POA WaS reqUesTed for CARVA.JAI.

per Ref A. It is requested

that

their pOAs be cancelled.

END, OF DISPATCH

Distribution:

50 - Addressce

TION

1161-25454-566 (tilan)

1281-244446o fatalent

18111-

¡CROSS HETERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

Liongradicin

P088809a

201- 2917-

DARE TYPEO :

DATE COSTRICHIO

7 Blas 63

DISPATCH STAGDO ANO FARE

UFGA -8925

HEADOUARTUPS FILE AULD#

1. Each 201

019-132-5-10/1

---

