# 104-10003-10220

## Page 1

104-10003-102201

÷ 8=

Storet

r...

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Release As Sanitized

1996

2

1951

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Director

Toderal Duresu of hirestigation

: Aondon d Fresident John F. Kennedy

?. Our flee indicate that thie photogrepa (Attachment A) elme

from a color trenup rency tie in Mint, USSR, on or about 11 Anguet

1961, by an Amerlean Courhol, MT8. Menca F. KRAMER, mbose address

brnta.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, FBI, dated 20 MARCH

J. 1964, is NOT THE SAME AS THE MEMORANDUM TO RANKIN,

dated 29 APRIL 1964. The FBI Memorandum (CSCI-

3/780,612) is the same as Document No. 0614-0261,

which is filed in Volume XXXI of Oswald's 201.

lakes in Toeutral nays

In the conter of Mank.

led as The Palace of

rpt. The indivietal

•y OSKALD. It should be

ppears to be teentiel to

ho from the group of 47

I were formned to ts

la file membex (8) 105-82555,

ENNEDY. Coples of these

This document is numbered wrong!

R.B. Holmas

24.05.89

un accompanded by snother American,

Mine ME NAMAN, 595 Atardog

l the report as Attachment B.

• of the femnles in the picture,

06'4-0

Document Number.

671-286

for FOLA Revieye on JUN 1976

BÃ6 30HIC7-01 I50

Bond, Salvang.

SECHET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SEGYLI

200420 19F:

MEXORANDUM FOR: DIreCtOr

Tederal Duress of lavestigation.

SUBJECT

Aerosesten ol Freeldent John Y. Kennedy

lo In he corco es oi reme d flo pertting to sreno o

the USh in which Lee Harvey OSWALD allegedly rended, a photograph

il an intuidel closely resembling OSWALD vas encorered.

%. Our loo lolleno that thie platough (Ate went A) come

1961, by an Americ Coriol, Wro, Moe. F. KRAMER, Shore ediress

al the time a F. O. Be 905, alan lea.

3. The photograph appears to bave been taken la Tacatral inaya

Floshchad! (Central Square), which in lechted in the confer of Minak.

The ballelng in the lackground las been filentilled as The Palaco of

Culture, Sla people are deplored in the photogaph, The individunl

second from the tight, appero to le Lee Marray OSCALD, I should be

noted that the uhirt tute Induttani in menning apponro to be tilentical to

the sir OSWALD Is vering le to to phe h the group of 47

photographs from the affects of OSWALD which were forsarded to thin

Agensy to yous communication at a March 1964, Alle suarber (8) 105-82555.

eubject: Arenatten of Prentient John f. KENNEDY. Coples al there

too phetographs al ONWALD are fernarded nith this ropore no Attachment B.

4. Sonxce al the photograph blentilled ons ol the females in the peture.

posably the one on the left, ss Stellan: (LNU), un Intartat muttle, Searce

no accompanied by another Amerlton, Mice Mits NAMAN, 595 Atardog

671-286

/Read, Salvang:

Document Number

for FOlA Revie on

JUN 1976

FOX SIBITIE tObA T

TIT DAI.

306 200727001

2244

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SESHEI

Ross, Selvang, California, who la permibly the femnle second from

the loft in the photograph. None of the other telliniale cun be

further dentified.

MIs. KRAMER ANd MIne NAMAN, both of whom are United

senten clineno, sare contected by this Agency on a ass-tene banta,

falloning their recura from that tour el the Uses, The soport of

Chia connel, 00-B-3,212,969, datad 21 Mareh 1962, unbject:

Realitien/Titoy Farado/laberzoghtien in Minah Fellening the Gietne

Anay al a US Neto Maganino, do fervardel ns Attachment C.

6. STO, KRAMER, nho to desertbed do "na older companion"

In the arence desertation el Aßtachment G, forulahed Ala Agency with

160 cater t

parantee then during the tilp, Anschment A lo caly

one ol the five tronorencion of mhich megave coples mere made and

ratatned by thin Agancy. All el the 160 original color traneparentes

nor retened to Mra. KRAMER.

7, Mos NAMAN, referred to ss * college gendate ta te

source descriptlen el Altachment C, previted this Agency with eme

roel el Amn coler movie film then doring the taip. The flim was

Moved by this Agency and vas subrequently returnod to tiles NARAN.

•. This Ageney has And no further connet with olther Miro.

KRAMER 0I MISS NAMAN entergeit to the emere rotected fe te

report farmanded as Attselment €.

%, Thie offles would be interested in any portment informalon

which intervlewo of Mrs. KRAMER and MiTO NASSAN by your office

might pooathly proves along the faltering llasm:

A. A moro poaltivo teenitention of the lodividual la

Attachnent A tentatively lentillel as OSWALD.

I- The cact date and entinate el the time of day when the

photograph (Attachment A) vas then.

/c. Any taformation

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SEGRET

on -

c. Any informates which danid ald in lendlying other

Invidenle in the photograph (Alishment A),

el. The sno, aldrens, and any scher adentifying data

on the trawling companton she neen oned bro. ELAkER

and Mine NAMAN from Moscow to Warnew vis Mlank.

10. Piecemenlos al Atchment A and pertinent eat yag

Amformation to Cho Frontento Carminaton on the Asantandlos of

F'reaident Kennedy la bolng delayed panting reselpt of your Surena's

finding in this matter.

FOR THE DEPUTT DIRECTOR FOR PLAN:

Sigued: Ja R. Hunt. Tr

JAMES ANGLETON

GSC1 - 3/780,012

3 Enclosuvos as elted above do parao. 8, 1 & 5

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addresses

1 - C/CI

1 - C/CI/SIG

1 - C/CI/REA

X-C/SR

1 - C/SR/GI

2 - C/SK/CIR (hold cy & comeback cy)

1 - SB/O/US/dI

1 - 201-289,218

SR./CI/ Research: A WBrasko;cl

19 March 1964

in.'

---

## Page 5

13-00000

ATTACHMENT "A"

The 3' x 5' photograph depicts a group of persons standing near an

automobile on Isentralnaya Ploshchod (Central Square) in Minsk during an

afternoon on or about 10 August 1961.

The 8". x 10" enlargement of the lower right quarter of the above

mentioned photograph provides a closer vlew of the persons grouped around

the automobile. The second person from the right, standing with his hands

In his pockets and wearing checkered short-sleeve sport shirt appears to be

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

815

AGY

ATTACHMENTA

---

## Page 7

13-00000

MENT "B"

Copies of two photographs fcuno

on the is to dong late,

ment in Minsk in 1962.

These photographs bear FBI

number D-33 #16 and #30

---

## Page 8

13-00000

---

