# 104-10172-10294

## Page 1

104-10172-10294

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

RETURN TO CIA...

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Fruit:

RID/

also the race shape ond to destrared ones st

to 03908 18 6604

COONENTS

prestig

TO

T2211

9.

FROM

NO

CA! €

-3912

8: SEP: 1959

"we.

8.

C/ WET

8. Fukhil

TUi

10.

18.

WE/l- CE

13.

16.

18

10.

*8101F1

DATE MICALPANIO

** 8100

tsa r9911008

1041+200%

1400L

ABSTRACT

INDEX

5-8: a critical

assesment of what

the jaling

stationship ra. what the

spelling.

it ordor.

8 9% 9 wide you wanled looks

nito this situation tore closely

in conjiaction with a staff

Wen I quis the your weed azto the

future of this Rectinship.

9 alwald lihoto be able to

discuss it persmadly with,

Vittentinates he gets

ive vi 67 берт.

11615; J'ua laguintial

OFHW-2937 Auth/ Sip

22

COLUMENT GATE

,22

(0Fнд-00080

SECRET

C.

i i

0.3

4/8R

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

2COFA 4000

wido

Chlei, *E

Chief, Sh

201-150156

all

FROM.

Iè Aurust 1959

Chief er station,

SURECT

REDCAP/RENPOTE. - Procurine of Fraale

Cosperivaship for STiCOry Yo. COuBt

MACH!O fOR INDERING

ACTION AFQUILIO

INDEXING CAN BE IUOGIO

BY QUAIPILO NO DISI ONLI

FYI

OFHA 4067, 1 August 1959

22

By reference dispatch we rentioned an intriguing turn of events

"In the Costilla/Golub relationshi= concerning the lattar's request for

Costillo to fla hia up aith a girl.

However,, we sould first like to bring

you completely up to date on our contact with Golub. le have recently been

having & number of consular Istterg which we have dealt with through Golub.

A numbor of Americans have been calling at the U.S. Embassy who have not

previously applied for Soviet visas and express e desire to travel to the

Costille has been referring these Americans directly to Golub at the

Soviet Fabaosy, as Golub once told Costille that he had the authority to

grant visas without prior approval fren Moscow. As long as the Anericans

had made travel arrangesents through a locci travel bureau, as well as hotel

reservations, he stated he had no objectiong in giving them a visa in a

matter of minutes. He have had four occasions to try Golub out in thie

matter, and so fer he has fulfilled his promise. Golub on 3 August Invited

Costille for drinks in a local bar, and Costille asked hit again 1f he was

still willing to continue handling the Americans that he referred to Gol'ub

at the Soviet Consulate.

Golub stated that he was because he was interested

in having Anericans visit the Soviet Union,

"And besirles," he added, "since

you are allowing Khrushcher to visit the U. So, there is no reason why I

can't let ordinary Americang cone to the USSR." Golub then began asidng

about the official functione of an American Consulate and began comparing his

duites with ourse. When he listed his typical duties, he added that it was

his responsibility as a Soviet Consul to handle Soviet defectors who cario to

Finland.

Colub sentiored that he had just returned from one of his more wi

pleasant duties of recovering the body of a Soviet sailor, who had gone berserk

and had shot and killed a number of soviet citizens on an island off the coast

of Estonia, stole a small notor launch and headed for Finlend.

His body was

found in the sea by a Pinrish fishermen near the Finnish islend of Musta'evenen

with & Finnish life

jacket on.

(This was reported in most of the finnish

newspapers.

Evidently,

the Soviet had attempted to swin for it and drosner.

Golub stated that he had to go to this island, recover the body and bring 1t

back to Helsinkl where it was put into s mortuaryo

The cause of death was

definitely drowning.

The body only had a Finnish life jacket and a pair of

swirming trunks on.

They later found the motor boat, but the motor was gone

and there was nothing in the boat.

Later a Soviet destrojer came to Helsino

to rotriere the bory. It was evidently Goluble responsibility to make all

of these arrangements. Colub stated on this evening that he hould like to

make a call on the U. S. Consulate sonetine.

Costille said that he was welcone

at anjo tatio.

The next morning Colub phoned Costille to say he would like to

FaKE come over®

He arrived carring a rurber of Soviet visa and other. forme

He recained in the Consulate for about an hour and asked zang quastions. ag

to consular duties and U.S. citizenship.

He departed inviting Costille to

pay a sizilar call on his at the Seriet Consulate.

The next da! Costille

phoned Golub to ast. 1f he Jight come over

te see the Soriet Consulate.

Wo

also wanted to introduce to Colub an Babassy employee, Edward serg, who 19

in helsinki through the sumer frog the U. S. Babassy

in feris or TDY for the

purpose of halping the Embassy with the number of VIP and other A-prican

tourises ming to the V.S. fair in Moscow.

Since he has also been handling

some visa prohiers, ve wanted his to neet Golub. Golub welenged Costille

and Serg at the Soviet Consulate end look tree into his office were the three

chatter fer abcut 20 minutes.

costillo also had with his the vises of tho

Amerisen somen mie wanted lo

gpend one nore day in the Soviet Urion and to

take the train rathor than fly.

colub sade the incessary clanges en their

vinas Mihoul a question.

At this tire colub Invited Costille and Fers to

have lunch die dia on 10 argust.

189° 9]

b8+8#: 785777288

→ sent t:

so, 188 itali

POS CONTRATO

1

3/BR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATIN IN

DISPATCA

2.

significant vocalls of tila lunt vere poriod in retercies 119-

jaêch.

want

doin

some very lol lones at it dis taro

rain! Corrilla lo

firhlaus sick a date.

coallie asked tis if he was sericus, dince to 18.=

Golub duct laughed and ter;unded that it more ro illiference

to timo Costille exprossed amazecent this wint in no finda girla since

5.7

To tad tess tere fact trald try and rare wido a store dear intere

Herever, iolid cinced triat ho knew fore.

Arrange

und? Costille sidies

• cents here shue

that he know a ood Flanish firl who maried for : local doctor liat was

trustworty and could hendle the situation. fer nue is being forwarled under

Bogarate sorer as Identity.

On Fridar evening, Costille contacted Iden to

briefly exalsia what she saculd expect.

Idey is about 31 years old, axtrerely

attractive, hell dressed, speaks hoth fiaris" and infillah, ind remed very

cooperative.

He told her thut lolub was tie Soviet. Consul, a personal friend

of Costilie's, unhaprily married with his wife was was in losoon, and that

ha rad

requested a date.

She mentioned that it scinded interesting ard that

she wouid to ready for anything. he told her nothing shout any operational

interest in colub but mentioned he would like to keep posted on the relation

ship.

However,

we strossed that as far as Colub was concerned Ider and

Costille had known each other before and had dated. She understood this

corpletely.

OUT

only regervations sbout Iden was that she is far fron an

"intollectual" and hes a rather silly sisalo.

There would be only one reason

why Golus rould be interested in Iden, add this would not be for her windo

22

dinner dancing at a local night spot. Also

attending vero Subject of OFIA 2918, berg and another American teaching schoo

In Helsirici. Colub seened to enjoy himself trenendously, was always at ease,

but preferred Costille's date to his own. le paid very little attention to

Iden, altrough he was pleasant to her; he orly talked at length with her when

ho ielt it necessary to be polite. Colub danced with all the giris end

appeared to be a passable dancer.

A night ciub p'olographer was asked to take

a photo cs Golub with his dete while incirg. The sicture turned out with a

profile stot (however recognizable) of Golus, but unforturutaly hi: date's

face was canaletely hidden.

Golub was not stare oi this photo..

(The original

we are keering in our files but have attiched a thernofax copy. The only

conversation worth reporting was that Colettle askel Subject of OFHA 2918, 22

who is & teacher of arglish in Helsinki, If she wuld be willing to teach sore

Soviet diplomats English. She agreed, but nothing sore has been heard en this

score, Gelub then requested that te continuo the evening in his apartont

listening to Russian music and drirking rognac.

The Ercup remaired

about two hours. Again Colub paid mere attention to Subject of OrM 2918 and 22

ignored his own date. When Costille mentioned it was time to leave, the girle

excused tremsalves to 60 to the ladies rose.

When they had left the room,

Golub came up to Costille and asked if he could go home with Iden. Costille

responded that thig was not up to him and told Colub to ask the girl. Costille

asked hin siy he just didn't ask her to star in his apartment for the night.

Golub arstered that he preferred to go to her apirtsent. He then went to ask

Iden if he could go hose with her.

Howerer, Golub tade the group good bye

at the ces docr and kent back upstairs to his apartent. Later Costille asked

Iden whet tad happened when Golub made the proposition.

Iden, who was a little

niffed at his ignoring her, stated that she was a little tired but told him

he couid phone her the following week. Since that evening he has phoned her

twice bat tas not had the opportunity to see her.

so lub also praised to

Invite Costille and Subject of (@rai)2919 to his apertient later on to rear

sore more FIsgian IUsiC.

22

he will keep you posted er Colut's relaiionship with Iden.

During

the evenire Golub did

not once appear to he rerous or embarrcesed about being

seen out in rublic with someone besides his lite.

Hilia L.

inclosures - Iler Lag.Co

riots

Distribution

3 - hE

2

- SP

Cassetaras

Race no.

HE +00 $128

MIBR

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION CE

DISPATCH

Se cone la

22

d.o.b.

06

Seikainon, Finland

PORA

CLASSONCARON

A634 NO

3IBR

coronso

---

## Page 5

14-0000

1i. 2.

iaiso.. 1.

---

