# 104-10063-10254

## Page 1

104-10063-10254

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SE CB ET

Chief, FE China Operations

Chief, WONUSE/SO; Chief, EUR Division

FROM.

cater of Station

*TAPPER/CO THABOVE - Contacts with PRC Officials in Canada

ON REQUIRED REFERENCES.

Action:

IXI

: Reference!

21354, 3 Apr1l 1973

PROCESSING ACTION 13 70:

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK:

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

:2.

The Individuals who Tell into the categories elted in

OCOW 7980; were forwarded via reference

$3.41 Because the information In the attachment emnates from

delicate sources, FHABOVE request that no action be taken that

could jeopardize the security of their sources.

Theodore D- HOLTEAM

Attachments:

3. Blind Memos

Distribution.

0718 0222 C/ON /50 k/t

C/WOMUSE/80. att

C/EUR: att k/w

10306

DISPATCH SYMB

сомова ст 13 Qua 1C

12MFOST CLEr 060595

*:OCOA 17634

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

3 April: 1973

MOS FILE NUMBER

767120-4171

---

## Page 2

14-00000

§ Mar 73

SECRET

-. 3.-

- Charles WHITE

Chairman of the Chinese Cultural Party,

Washington, D.C., U.S.A.

visa enquiry.

Source learned that WITE had forwarded a one hun-

ded and ninety-tro page proposal in a red jacket

with a dragon

along with his

application however

source did not believe this had been received yet.

WHITE reportedly wishes to go to China during

July 1973 and study for two

WHITE also

wished to visit Ambassador x40 Tuans on the 20

Mar 73 however he apparently was advised that the

Ambassador is in Peking.

Source learned that

WHITE had also enquired about a visa for Steven

Loring JONES,

a. student of architecture, (place

unknown) U.S.A.

Source learned that thalt could

be reached at

202-635-4636.

- Tom SCHULTZ,

student at University of Chicago

Chicago, Illinois

wished to visit the P.R.C.

- MT. N.I. CUSHING,

of Andrew Imporüs,

99 Madison Avenue,

New York

had a tentative appointment for 15 March 73 to

- Paz Wahhh portation of

silk.

President of Dresser Industries,

Houston, Texas

had an appointment with a commercial member for

13. Mar 73.

The P.R.C. Official apparently request

ed that LOUGTANS bring any information available

on the price lists of foodstuffs in the U.S.

Dr. E. Grey DI OiD

Kansas City, Missouri

had received permission for himself, his wife and

seven hear specialists to visit the F.R.C.

They

planzed to enter China on 22 April 73.

Appli-

cation forms would be hailed to DINOND at 5650

ward farway, hansas City:

Source lenrned thet Kwo, Ching in (Third Secretary

(Press) ) atiennüed

to contact incHMaith this date

but had noù been successful.

Source was of the

impression that this was in regards to an urgent

matter.

Source also learned the "OHANIED" could

be reached at 215-221-5150.

GECRET

---

