104-10079-10059

INTERCEPTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS “ Please, Ao evidenes.

wiiiel, vem, ton (ua ST
wars the vecclick

“OUR ANT  S

p. 122 The above four conversations which occurzed on 9/27
and 9/28 contain almost all of the substantive information
that was available to the Mexico City station, on OSWALD from
the Soviet electronic intercept operation. These conversations
were not linked to OSWALD prior to 8 October 1963 when [MEXI-
6453] IN 36017 was sent to Headquarters reporting OSWALD's
contact with the Soviet Embassy on 1 October 1963 (494)

The conversations discussed above were linked to.Lee we
Harvey OSWALD by 16 October 1963, the date that the Mexico /$.10°")

eat

City Station opened its "P" file on OSWALD. (495) The process \ ye

“wee

by which, and the events leading up to, the linkage of OSWALD dom VR

wor:

to the intercepted calls will be discussed in the following
section on the Mexico City Station's actions repRarding the

OSWALD case prior to the assassination.

A photograph of an unidentified individual who visited
the Soviet Embassy was incorrectly linked to OSWALD prior to
the assassination. (496) The manner in which this mistake
was made and the consequences of that mistake will be discussed
in the following fections on the Mexico City Station's actions
prior and subsequent to the assassination of President John F.

Kennedy.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce JIES A



14-00000

p. 81 "An examination of the production from these operations
failed to reveal a photograph of OSWALD. (320) This Committee
has not been able to rule out the possibility that a photograph
of OSWALD was obtained in Mexico City by these operations since
the material made available for review was incomplete. (321)"

[Agency withholding - implication]

p. 90 This Committee cannot state with certainty that a photo-
graph of Lee Harvey OSWALD was not obtained by the photosurveil-
lance operations, in Mexico City because of three reasons: (a)
the photographs from LILYRIC, the "alternate" photographic

base which covered the Soviet Embassy main gate, and the photo-
graphs from the pulse camera, which covered the Cuban Consulate
entrance, with the exception of a few samples, were not made
available for review by the CIA; (b) testimony from knowledge-
able people that it would have been unlikely that the photo-
surveillance would have missed someone whom it had at least
five chances of recording; (361) and (c) reports that such a
photo did, in fact, exist. (362)

",.. Simply put, this Committee has not seen all of the
photographs produced by the photosurveillance operations in
Mexico City (363) Nence, it cannot conclude that a photograph
of OSWALD does not exist among those photographs-it has not
seen. [Writer fails do note that the Station, in November 1963,

reviewed all photographs and found nothings - see cable traffic.]

p. 107 "The Agency's withholding of certain production materials
from the photographic bases has prevented the Committee from

determining whether a photograph of Lee Harvey OSWALD was taken


. - 2a -

by these photographic surveillance operations. [How does one

"withhold" material when thereis none to withhold?]

p. 114 "Material removed from SCOTBT's safe now in possession
of the CIA provides critically important circumstancial evidence
that the WIA photosurveillance éperations obtained photographs
of OSWALD:
"(OSWALD's) visits and conversations are not hearsay;
for persons watching these embassies photographed OSWALD

as he entered and left each one; and clocked the time he

spent on each visit." (469)

"This Committee believes that a photograph of Lee Harvey
SOWALD was probably obtained by CIA photosurveillance in Mexico.
There are allegations that such a photo was found; there is
testimony that such a photo should have been obtained; the CIA's
withholding of materials; Ms SCALETI's strange lapse.of memory
regarding the events of 11/22/63; and Mr. SCOTT's manuscript;
these things, inmthe Committee's view, would tend to indicate
that a photo of Lee Harvey OSWALD was obtained. On the other
hand the consistent testimony that a photo was not obtained in
Mexico; the absence of any record of transmittal of the photo
to Headquarters (the weight of this consideration is mitigated
by the fact that there were methods of communitation available
that were not incorporated into the CIA's record keeping systems) ;
and the testimony of Ms SCALETI and Mr. SCELSO that a photo was
not discovered would tend to indicate that, in fact, the allega-
tions that SCALETI found a photo of LHO are false."

[A review of 1963 traffic shows no photograph was found of LHO.

The Station would have reported finding one, if it had.]


. - 2b -

p. 115 This study has demonstrated that the information from
the Soviet Embassy taps and from Headquarters was available to
the Mexico City Station prior to the assassination of President
John F. Kennedy. In addition to the Agency acknowtédged infor-
mation, thkre is a distinct-possibility that the Station had
available to it one additional telephone intercept transcript,

and one or more surveillance photographs.

p. 117 Telephone intercepts [not related to OSWALD]

9/27/63 10:30am Man calls Soviet Military Attache re-
garding a visa for Odessa. (Spanish)

9/27/63 10:37am Man’ calls Soviet Consulate regarding
visa[s] for Odessa. (Spanish)

9/27/63 1:25pm Man calls the Soviet Consulate and asks
for the Consul. (Spanish)

10/3/63 2 Man calls the Soviet Military Attache.
(Spanish and English)

[None of the above calls was initiated by Lee Harvey OS®ALD.]

p. 118 After the assassination @IA's Mexico City Station
passed copies of seven of the above listed conversations to
the U. S. Embassy Legal Attache. (471) The 9/27 10:30 and the
9/27 1:25 calls listed above are not included in this dissemina-
tion. (472) The cover memorandum states:
"Attached are photostatic copies of transcripts
of all conversations from technical operations of this
office which are possibly pertinent in this case. (473)"
"The HSCA has not been able to determine why the 9/27
10:30 and 9/27 1:25 calls were not included in this memorandum.

While the 1:25 call could be considered unrelated, it is unlikely

that the same would apply to the 10:30 call since the 9/27 10:37

call is included in the memorandum.


14-00000

Su cHeit

"At the bottom of each attachment page to the SCOTT
memorandum, a summary of the conversation is provided. (474)
The Station questioned the relevancy of only one of the seven
calls presented in the memorandum... The summary of the 10/3
call says:
"By context of other conversations by OSWALD and
the fact that this called [sic] spoke in broken Spanish
and English rather than Russian which he used previously,
it is probable that. this caller is not OSWALD. (475)
[OSWALD did not speak Spanish - see DURAN's remarks, etc.
Therefore, any call in Spanish was considered to have been
made by OSWALD. Nor has it ever been confirmed that OSWALD
wanted to go to Odessa. According to his wife's correspondence
to the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D. C., she wanted to go to
Leningrad. There is no record that he wanted to go elsewhere. ]
The HSCA has not been able to determine why the 9/27
10:30 and 9/27 1:25 calls were not included in this memorandun.
While the 1:25 call could be considered unrelated, it is unlikely
that the same would apply to the 10:30 call since the 9/27 10:37
call is included in the memorandum. [Later review by qualified
professionals of the Agency determined that the four calls listed
on page 2b were not relevant, OSWALD did not initiate them - the
reasons are given above.]
A judgement that this call [10/3/63] did not pertain to LHO
could be pAg¢¢ based on the following facts:
1) the caller spoke broken Spanish;
2) the caller did not have the number of the Consulate;

3) the caller did not know that visas were issued at
the Consulate; and

4) the caller states that he isseeking a visa, not
that he is checking on an application already
made.

The majority of the evidence indicates that LHO could not speak

Spanish. (476)


14-00000

‘ - 2d -

In light of DELGADO's assertions, it is possible that
OSWALD had at least a limited knowledge of Spanish. It
should be noted that the 10/3 transcript listed above indicates
that the caller spoke in broken Spanish. (477) The fact that
this conversation was in Spanish, should not by itself rule
out the possibility that OSWALD made the phone call. ...
[The writer choses to ee the most important and relevant
reason that the 10/3 call was not made by OSWALD - OSWALD

left Mexico City early in the morning of 2 October 1963!]



14-00000 iz

p- 139 LILYRIC base production "has not been made available for

review". [Agency withholding]

p. 140 "finds implausible A. GOODPASTURE could make a mistake
in light of her ottstanding fitness reports". [impugning G's

integrity as a witness]

p-. 141 "No record exists that would indicate a reply to this
cable [DIR 84888, 11.23.63] by Mexico City Station. [See reply
by Mexico City - MEXI-7029, 23.11.63, which references DIR-

84888 - writer did not read file carefully.]

p. 141 "The likelihood that a photograph of OSWALD was indeed
obtained makes the "explanation", proferred by GOODPASTURE

et al, even more implausibte. (560) At this time the Commit-
tee cannot conclude why the original mistake was made even
though it does find the explanation offered by GOODPASTURE et
al, to be highly impiausibe.

"Regardless of why the mistake was made, OSWALD's
contact with the. Soviet Embassy and the mistaken [emphasis
added] photographic-identification of him were reported to
Headquarters."' [There was no "mistake" at the time; station

said photograph YWappeared to be an American".]

p-. 146 See paragraph 3 of cited cable - not accurately cited;

portion left out; writer did not check his notes.

p- 147 Re SCALETI's testimony - "she claimed [accurate physical
description]could not be disseminated due to a third agency rule"!
[This absolute crap - she could have referred to accurate descrip-

¢
cae tion contained in other agency files without violating "3rd
wh (ears
eee’ we agency rule". }ér VA Aucrecspl orn wes ebony al Vaseuee, she Coute® leuc,
\ w .
N A y i :
Ww - ae Oe ade & Coven” wih weutd Weve. Wertedd wp rac de fetes



14-00000

p. 149 See citation - "... she had said that the cable and
teletype had been prepared simultaneous ly by three [emphasis
added] knownledgeablé people. [! she wrote both cables - her
mame appears on both!] '"'She said that it-had obviously been a
mistake that doesn't matter now! ...'" [shows a lack of profes-
sionalism!] The remainder of her comment is accurate - she would

not have included the physical description. - umph!]

p. 151 - regarding TK's signature on the outgoing cable:

SCELSO claims it went to TK "becayse it involved disseminating
information on an American citizen ..." [BS! The authenticaing
officer was C/WH, therefore the releasing officer had to be the
DDP or his assistant - TK.] [Further comment: An indication that
unqualified personnel reviewing raw information do not understand

even after being briefed, how an intelligence agency works.]

p. 153 We could just as well have sent this cable out without

TK releasing it. [obviously SCELSO does not understand how
authenticating
cables were released in the DDP - if C/WH is ¢¢7¢Agipg officer,
the releasing
DDP is AAykédeZ¢Axix#e officer (or his assistant) .]

IESGLEREEESpEsEOONEO™ SE

p. 155 "Hence, the assertion in the 1977 TF Report that 'OSWALD
was not an investigative responsibility of the CIA' (595) is
seemingly inaccurate and misleading." [This is hogwash!] The
fact that a person identifying himself A¢ by name was sufficient
to warrant a cable to hqts. on a routine bais, for a name trace.]
No one in Mexico City had the slightest idea as to whom OSWALD
was. It was not until a name trace had been run in HQDTS that

it was realized that he had defected to the USSR.\

p. 155 Even though the CIA denies stich an agreement (if it



14-00000

was in writing) that covered the CIA's investigation of
American citizens in Mexico, this Committee is certain, on

the basis of the above detailed evidence, that such an agree-
ment existed, either formally or informally. (594) Hence,

the assertion in the 1977 TFR that "OSWALD was not an investiga-
tive responsibility of the CIA" (595) is eemingly inaccurate and

misleading.

p. 156 "... two assertions of the 1977 TFR are important:
(1) that it was not discovered that OSWALD was seeking a visa to
Russia and that he had also been in contact with the Cuban Embas-
sy until November 22, 1963; and (2) that the Station did nothing
other than ask headquarters on 15 Octkber for a photograph of
OSWALD" because no other government agency had made an official
request for further information. (596) It has: already been shown
that the ‘official request' that the Agency claims was not forth-
coming was, in fact, not necessary and that, as a matter of fairly
routine operating procedure, the CIA headquarters requested a
follow-up on the information already rewported about OSWALD.
[See Hqdts regulation re reporting on Ameri-ans - was in effect
then. It would have been necessary for the Station to receive a
request (official) from the FBI, the Navy, or State, for the

Station to initated an OFFICIAL investigation... Also, headquarters

did not ask for a follow-up, Headquarters ask that any additional

information which might come to the Station's attention be reported
to Washington. Such a statement is not a requirement, it shows

interest and asks that the Station forwarded additional information
but without setting up an official investigation.| The text of the

cable is as follows: "Please keep HQS advised on any further con-



14-00000

tacts or pesitive identification of OSWALD. -

NB: DIR-74830 was written by BUSTOS on 10 October; it was not
given any priority slug; it went out at 2229Z; it could have been
authenticated by C/WH/3 and released by C/WH; the cable was
probably written late in the evening, therefore, C/WH would have
authenticated - KING did not sign, his OPS officer signed - HOOD -
therefore, TK would have released for the DDP. It might be in-
teresting to know if ADDP means assistant or acting. However,
whatever the case, its is not suprising that TK signed off. No

matter what SCELSO said. ]

p. 156 It should also be noted that the CIA Headquarters also,
by notifying the interested govermment agencies that "Any ‘further
information received on this subject will be furnished to you’. -
(597) belied the necessity of one of the agencies making an:of-
ficial request for further action. [This latter statemant is

a routine statement to indicate to the receipiant that the case
is not closed. If the recipient is interested, he would ask for

additional information and might aidve us specific requrfements. ]

p. 157 There are several marginal notations on this document
[DIR 74830, 11.10.63]. Perhaps the most interesting is the nota-
tion "sic" with an arrow drawn to the "Henry" in the name Lee
Harvey OSWALD". That notation was made by Win SCOTT when he
read the cable on the day it was WAd¢ received in Mexico. (598)
This notation struck Committee investigators as very strange be-
cause it was a possible indication that Win SCOTT knew, at the
time. the cable was received, that Lee OSWALD's middie name was

not "Henry". [The notation on the cable was not made by SCOTT;

hors



14-00000

it was made by ROCCA when he reviewed the file after its arrival

in headquarters ca. 1970.

p. 159 I£ SCOTT did in fact make this notation prior to the
assassination of John Kennedy, this Committee has’ not been able
to determine why "sic" was used. (602) [Inasmuch as SCOTT did
not make this notation, ROCCA did, the entire argument HARDWAY
builds from page 157 - 159 is based an inaccurate determination

as to who made the notation.] In footnote no. 602, HARDWAY states

"SCOTT's manuscript may provide a clue when he writes that during
his first contact with the Soviet Embassy, OSWALD ‘gave his name
very slowly and distinctly'. (Foul Foe manuscript, p. 267.) If
OSWALD used his middle name at that time it would explain why
SCOTT wrote 'sic'.by "Henry". But it should be noted that OSWALD's
name does not come up in any of the transcripts made available by
the CIA. until 10/1/63, and OSWALD's middle name is not given in
that transcript. It is possible that there is one additional
transcript, possibly of the conversation that SCOTT, on page 267
of his manuscript, refers to as OSWALD's ‘first contact', which,
if in existence, has not been made available to this Committee."

From SCB ltr to STOKES, 30 November 1978: I [DCI] understand

the question arising from the draft manuscript of Mr. SCOTT, who
had served as Chief of Station thare. It seems to have been writ-
ten between his retirement and his death in Mexico City. While
neither of us is able to examine him on the thoughts in his mind
at the time of the writing, both of us know that what he put in
that manuscript is inconsistent with what he reported to the
Warren Commission investigators and FBI representatives at the
time when he was responsible, as well as what he and his Station
reported to CIA Headquarters in Washington. ... at least part of
what his draft states is refuted by the record; for instance,
OSWALD did not spell out his name, nor did he give his middle
name, in the telephone conversation that he had with the Soviet
installation on the day before he left Mexico City to return to
Texas. ... Quite frankly, Mr. SCOTT's writings, during the
period that he hoped to sell a manuscript about his life, not only
are in contradiction to the facts as he knew and reported them on
this point, when it was his responsibility to report them, but on
other facts as well. His singular version on this point must be
dismissed, not lightly but on the basis of clear evidence to the
contrary."


14-00000

p- 160 "Hence, we know that OSWALD's "P" file was opened on or
about 15 October 1963 [See cover sheet to DIR 74830, 11 October
1963] and that SCOTT asked that ''all" information be included in
the file. There is substantial reason to believe that most, if
not all, of the information available to the Station was incor-

porated into the file at that time. (608)"

p. 161 "This Committee believes that Station personnel did, be-
tween October 11 arid October 15, go back and recheck the trans-
cripts and connect the important substantive calls to.OSWALD.

«++. It should have been possible at that point to compare tapes
to see if they were in fact the same caller. Indeed, a notation
made by GOODPASTURE on a newspaper article in 1964 suggests that
this was the case. "The caller from the Cuban Embassy was uni-
dentified until Hqs sent traces on OSWALD and voices compared/¥i1#K
by (TARASOFF)." (613) [The action taken here was several months
after the fact. As indicated in the Mexico City files, TARASOFF
recognized at the time that there was a similarity between con-
versations between "OSWALD" and the Soviet Consuhate. The de-
termination did not become firm (the determination was based upon

what TARASOFF remembered - npot becuase he went back to tapes! ]

p. 143 - etc. The writer tries to make missing facts support
a hyopthesis which does not exist - in other words he's out to

get the Agency, and any supposition on his part becomes fact!]

p- 149 "... she had said that the cable and the teletype (dis-
semination) had been prepared simultaneously by three knowledgeable
people.'"' [ BUSTOS signed both cables - what's about the 3

"knowledgeable: people"?]


14-00000

p. 150 The second point of interest that is illustrated by the
10 October cable and teletype is the inference that can be made
from reviewing paragraph 3 of the teletype, paragraph 5 of the
cable, and TK signing off on the cab@e, that the CIA was asking
for, and promising, a further investigation of OSWALD without

a specific request from any other government agency who might
have had, as the 1977 TFR says, ‘investigative responsibility'."
[Thesstateneht in the cable was a rontine request to keep Has
informed if any additional information came to the Station's

attention - this was not a requirement for an investigation. ]

"The request for further investigation and dissemination
contained in paragraoh S$ of the 10 October cable to Mexico
was the reason that the cable was sent to the ADDP for release.
(588)" [This is the opinion of an unqualified person reading
raw traffic.] [This point has already been discussed above.]
[Much attention has been given. to SCELSO's testimony which is

not accurate.]

p. 161 This Committee believes that Station personnel did,
between October 11 and October 15, go back and recheck the
transcripts and connect the important substantive calls to
OSWALD. Under normal operating procedures a tape of OSWALD's
calls to the Soviet Embassy should not have been erased until

16 October, 4 to 5 days after the case took on added significance.
(611) The one transcript of the call on 10/1/63 that had defini-
tely been linked to OSWALD prior to receipt of the 10/11 cable
core a reference to an earlier conversation by a man who spoke

broken Russian, the text of the 10/1 call allowed that the prior


14-00000

-10 -

call had probably occurred on September 28, 1963. (612)"
[HARDWAY is pushing - The files do not support "the Committee's
belief that the Station did, between October 11 and October 15,
go back and recheck the transcripts. The Russian translator in
the Station did remark that "the same person who telephoned a
day or so ago and spoke in broken Russian" speaks to OBYEDKOV".
At that time, the identity of a caller and the contact was the
reportable item, it was done. There was no connection in the
Station's mind that Lee OSWALD was possibly the same as Lee Harvey
OSWALD. The HSCA wants to say that the reference to an earlier
conversation in "broken Russian" means the Station did check
back (as they would say we should have) and, ergo, we knew about

the Cuban contact too.]

p. 161. "A notation made by GOODPASTURE on a newspaper article
in 1964 [21 October] suggests that a comparison of the tapes
containing "broken Russian" between 11 and 15 October -

"The caller from the Cuban Embassy was unidentified

until HQ sent traces on OSWALD and voices compared

by [TARASOFF]."
p. 162 "An examination of documents in LHO's Mexico City Station
P file and the cable traffic from Mexico City to Headquarters

after the assassination, raised a possibility that at least

one tape of OSWALD's voice existed as late as 16 October 1963
(614)"

[According to SCELSO, it was belief that the tapes were probably
still in existence at the time of the assassination. The HSCA
notes, however, that the testimony of the persons at the Mexico
City Station "is consistent in saying that the tapes did not

at the time of the assassination. See MEXI-7054 (IN



14-00000

esses Bs Beers?

67378), 24 November 1963 - FOIA No. 84-565 which states that
“a recheck shows tapes for this period already eraaed".]} This
cable was Station response to DIR 84886, 23. November 1963 which
asked Station to review all LIENVOY tapes and transcripts since
27 September to locate all matbrial possibly pertinent to sub-
ject reference (MEXI-6453). See also MEXI-7023 (IN 67108),
23 November 1963, which states that-"In view OSWALD in the Soviet
Union and fact he claimed on 1 Oct LIENVOY to have visited Sov
“unidientified North American"
Emb 28 Sep, SUBJECT para one (DURAN puts Q$WA¥P on line to Soviet
Consulate) probably OSWALD. Station unable compare voice as first

tape erased prior. receipt second call" - 28 September tape erased

before 1 October tapes received. ]

p. 163 HARDWAY referssto 21.10.64 article by ALLEN § SCOTT and
GOODPASTURE's note to effect TARASOFF compared ¥ié¢¢. voices.*

p- 164 According to HARDWAY statement in MEXI-7023 that a votee
comparison was not possible becuase of the first tape being
erased p77 prior to the second tape being received is incon-
sistent with the statements made in testimony and in other cables
(622) and with the procedure then in effect at the Station at that
time. (623) It is, therefore, considered highly unlikely that a
tape would be held only one or two days, the situation that is
implied by the statement in MEXI-7023

*There is some confusion in GOODPASTURE's testimony - She stated
that the caller from the Cuban Embassy was unidentified until

HQS sent traces on OSWALD. Now that would have been in answer to
the cable dated the 8th October.. Their cable .(DIR- ) was 18
October, "and voices compared by FEINGLASS [TARASOFF]." He
compared the Cuban Embassy voices with the others, with OSWALD's

call, in which he used his name."

NB: TARASOFF testified that he had not been queried at all about
OSWALD in 1963 and that he had not done a voice comparison. (626)


14-00000

pastes |e Beea
.. O84.
{ MANELL Jtestified that TARASOFF did not do a voice comparison but
connected the two conversations in his marginal comments in the
transcripts on the basis of memory.

P. 166 Whether or not TARASOFF or someone else did a voice com-
parison of the tapes, it is likely that the tapes did exist un-
til at least the 16th of October and would have been available

for such a comparison. It is possible that the connection between
the 10/1/63 call and the 9/28/63 call was made on the basis of
TARASOFF's memory. in any event the record clearly indicates

that the tapes should have been available, and probnably were
available, as late as 16 October. (628) This is significant
because it was after receipt -f the 10/10 cable from Headquarters

that the OSWALD case took on a more than routine coloring.

p- 167 The increased siginificance that the OSWALD visit took
on during the period from 11 October to 16 October 1963, could
have provided the Station with reason to retain the OSWALD

tapes. (629)

p. 168-On the whole most CIA officers wh- testified stated that,
if a tape of OSWALD's voice existed at the time of the assassina-
tion, they did not known anything at all about it. (631) One
CIA officer (SCELSO) testified that he believed the tapes did
exist at the time of the assassination. "Yes, the tapes were
still in existence. (632)"! [It appears from testimony, etc.,

TARASOFF may have made the comparison from memory. ]

#59169 "... the conversations were linked to OSWALD prior to
the assassination and probably by the time that the "P" file

was opened on or about 16 October 1963. (636)'' [HARDWAY is

still pushing.]

my


14-00000

+ Goat? eS Jette

p- 170 On 15 October 1963, [firs . MANELI] arated a local dissemina-
tion regarding OSWALD's contact with the Soviet Embassy. (640)

By this date at least the 10/1 10:45 call, the 9/28/ 11:51 call,
the 9/27/ 4:05 pm call, and the 9/27 4:26 pm call had been linked
to OSWALD. (641)

{The 16 October 1963 memorandum to the Ambassador et al refers
only to the 1 October 1963 call. It makes no reference to any
other calls. "It was determined by the Station (by OSWALD's

own statement by telephone) that OSWALD had been at the Soviet
Embassy on 28 September 1963 and had talked with Valeriy
Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV ... ." There is nothing in the memorandum
regarding the other calls. These other calls were not reported
to the FBI until 25 November 1963. This CSCI included as attach-
ments transcripts of three calls on 27 September, 1 call on

28 September, one call on 1 October, and one on 3 October 1963

In other words the other calls available to the Station were

not linked to OSWALD until the Station reviewed its holdings
after the assassination of Kennedy. HARDWAY is really pushing
to prove his hypothesis - don't allow the evidence to conflict

with the hypothesis!] - The files do not support his hypothesis

nor, apparently, do the testimonies of CIA employees; can one

trust their statements after fifteen years. Details become

blurred.

P. 121 When asked why the 10/16 memorandum said that there was
no clarifying information on OSWALD'ss'request' when it was known
by this time that he was seeking a visa,/Mrs. Fivewy said that
'They had -no need to know all those other details."! [The reason

why the Station did not know what OSWALD was talking about was the


14-00000

Pitta Wee

Station had not yet learned the purpose of OSWALD's contact with
the Soviet Embassy, nor-had the Station learned that OSWALD had
first contacted the Cuban Consulate. It was not until after the
assassination that the Station put together the information (trans-

cripts) it had on OSWALD's contacts with the Cuban and Soviet

Consulates. ]

p. 171 Even though the Station's actions after the 10/11 cable

were not highly extensive, it is inaccurate and misleading to

say that those actions were limited to requesting a photograph

of OSWALD from Headquarters. Other actions included rechecking

the transcripts and discovering the substantive ones that concerned

OSWALD and reporting the information in MEXI 6453 ... in a misleading

manner. [This is absolute crap - it's the Gospel according to Saint
Dan! The files do. not support this hypothesis.]

Hence, the fact that OSWALD was seeking a visasand had been in
contact with the Cubans as well as the Russians was known prior

to the assassination, and the Station's actions prior to the as-
sassination were more comprehensive than merely requesting a
photograph; although if any action other than a file check was
taken, no record of that action has been made available to this

Committee.

p. 172 Possible that information developed by Station after 11
October 1963 was reported to Headquarters - SCALETI said such
a report "would have been expected". SCELSO agreed that such

information should have been reported to Headquarters.

p. 173 SCALETI said she could bot recall that Mexico had sent any

other information to Hqts before the assassination. SCELSO


} - 415 -

was certain that this information was reported but. could not
recall the form of the report or whether it occurred before

or after the assassination. Allan WHITE, DC, had no knowledge
before the assassination of any information being sent to Hqts.
GOODPASTURE was unsure - it was not until after the assassina-
tion that Hqts was informed of OSWALD's contact with the Cubans.

oD .

p. 174" 5. MANELL\was certain a second cable reporting OSWALD's

contacts with the Cuban Embassy had been sent to Hqts before the
assassination. She did not send such a cable, but knew that one

had been sent.! PHILLIPS had no knowledge of a second cable.

p. 176 HARDWAY cites SCOTT's manuscript - "(O)n page 777 of
(the Warren) report the erroneous statement was made that it

was not known that OSWALD had visited the Cuban Embassy until
after the assassination! Every piece of information concerning
Lee Harvey OSWALD was reported #¢ immediately after it was
received to: U.S. Qmbassador MANN, by memorandum; the FBI

Chief in Mexico, by memorandum; and to my Headquarters by cable;
and included in each and every one of these reports was the con-
versation OSWALD had, so far as it was known. These reports were.
made on all his contacts with both the Cuban Consulate and with
the Soviets. (656 {See remarks above regarding the validity of

SCOTT's manuscript as to-an accurate record of events in Mexico

City before and after the assassination. ]

177 -SCELSO was asked whether or not the Station was ever criticized

for this failure to report in the face of a specific request to
do so by CIA Hqts. [There was no specific request from Hats.

Hqts merely asked to be kept informed on any further contacts or


14-00000

a Gate

positive identification of OSWALD. This request was not one to

initiate an investigation.]

p. 178 Perhaps the nature of the CIA Mexico City Station's han-
dling of the OSWALD case prior to the assassination can best be
summed up in Dave PHILLIPS' eesaier when he was asked how he

would characterize that handling: "At the very best, it is not

professional, at the best." (659)

p.- 184 In view of what is now known about the standard operating
procedures and about the Station's actions prior to the assassi-
nation, the Station's confusing and somewhat contradictory re-
porting after the assassination is strange. (684) It is possible
that these confusions and contradictions arose out of the crisis
atmosphere at the Station and the rush to report information.
This Committee has not found any solid evidence that there were

sinister qualities in the reporting after the assassination.


HARDWAY's argument is to prove that the Mexico City
Station knew about OSWALD's activities in Mexico City before

KEN)

Y's assassination. He makes reference to various cables
which, according to the Agency, indicate that the Station had
not reviewed its telephone tap or photographic production in
a serious manner until the news of KENNEDY's assassination.
It's true that the Station had transcripts. of telephone calls
(five in all) which concerned OSWALD; either he identified
himseff or, from the context of the call, the call related

to OSWALD. HARDWAY does not accept facts, he tries to. make a
case out of hypothesis - when the facts do not coincide with
his preceptions he then manipulates the evidence so that he
can make a case that the Station knew about OSWALD's contacts
with the Cuban ¢pxvZAre and the Soviet Consulates. When the
facts are not there, he hypothesises. This may be acceptable
in a legal summary, but when presenting a counterintelligence

case, facts are the basis for any conclusions.
