# 104-10151-10013

## Page 1

104-10151-10013

5

2

SUbJECT

Li'si RODRIGUEZ Caïderon

DATE DISTR.

26 ApILI 1965

SEOKET,

NO. PACES

2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACI &

Fashingtos, D. C.

DATE ACQ. Apri1

1965

THIS Y UNEVALUATED

INFORHATION,

SOUn

SOURCCI

A Irre Caban IS 0ff.ce

Servico uatd1 Aprin 1969

REPORT NO.

APPPAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

with the Cubas Intellagence

Headguassers Comaonts

The following report 1s

one

of a saries containing personality

information provided by the

source and includes supplemental

information

fron the records of this Agency

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Jo in.

Source identified a photograph of Luisa RODRIGUEZ

Calderon and sald that she had been connected with the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence: - DG]) and the former secretary of the Young

Conmunists in the Cuban Ministry of Entertor. Commerce:

the Cuban government, according to source, thought

that RODRIGUEZ had been recrusted by the United States

Governgent while she was in Mexico and she was recalled to

Cuha:: Although source could not

011 the details, he did

recall something concerning her

aving a letter from an

American. Source further recal

something about an

Anerican student who visited

no vas alleged to

bave made a recrultment pit

EZ or was associated

in sone way with a pitch

Headquarters Coments

A report concern

omatic personnel in lexico,

dated 22 June 19

following biographic information

on one Luisa CALDERON

alero,: possibly identical with

Luisa RODRIGUEZ Calderont

STATE

D1,1

REP

AZHY

. MAVY

CINCLANT * CINCSO

# :

SECRET

NO. FOREIGN DISSEU

A12

:* | NSA

IRNS

3

IXиK

| OCR

1ABT 2

Not:

C. 110R

217l4

РОЛістіЛи

Leal

HH/C/NO

14E./5/R

CELLIA

CHIRLA

3

IE/CANADA

LE/BRINISI

-3 8451/53

LX 2467

ND PROJECT (ARLIUG, -)

CSCI-316/02783-65

• 142:

TOTALY

NH/C 8(1)

VE 1 (1), CI 4, RID 1

RBAISON

208-731274

33:LD:5.

10 17-5-1

•SECRET

22527

0002814

26

319

PAGE

".BY

---

## Page 2

2.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

CSCI-31G/01783-65

-2-

CALDERON,

secrotary in tha Connorc

Embassy In Mexico City.

039. b0r1

arrived

in Merico on 16 January

Pica 01 tha. Cuban

1940 In Cuha.: Che

carried Cuban:

passport No. E/63/3. ChIDEROYS

Carracedo;

also arrived on 16

Cuban

passport No.

F/63/0.

and carrled

nt: Ava Revolucion

28, Dpto 1, Mexico

D.F.

Tro 1sua11y reliablo

•50

ood connectiong in the:

Cuban Enbassy In Mexico

do, gave a representative

of this

Agency the followus

formation on Luisa CALDERON;

possibly adentical with tulse repRiGuez calderons

to return to Cubaron Cubana

tries. CAreERoN said thie she would not be veturnin

to Mexico:

report also noted that CALDERON had

arrived in Nexico

16 January 1963

PROHIBITI

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

33Л 03IX A9

0002815

27

PAGE

COPY NO.

315

of

---

