SECRET

MHFNO: 93-3747541 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: He

// SECRET
STAFF

ACTION: LA/MCGMXB (930) INFO: C/ORMS, LADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE,
(0/W) ‘

93 3747541 ASR PAGE 001 IN_ 3747541
TOR: 0323182 SEP 93 p1663

SECRET 0323172 SEP 93 STAFF

CITE 31663 (SHOLDAR ACTING)

TO: | DIRECTOR.
FOR: LIMIT LA/MCGMXB
SLUGS: WNINTEL KDPROTECT

SUBJECT: CONTACT REPORT WITH KDDAGGER/2 AND KDDAGGER/11
201-1458174, 201-1457250

REF: NONE
TEXT:
1. A. ASSET: KDDAGGER/2 (D/2)
B. DATE: 02 SEP 93
C. TIME: 1800-1900

D. PLACE: RESTAURANT, STREET,
NEAR THE CORNER 0)

E. MAP COORDINATES:

F. C/O AND OTHER PARTICIPANTS: DENNIS R. BRUEGGE
G. OPS ALIAS USED: NONE
H. NEXT MEETING: THURSDAY. a SEPT 93, AT

2. A. MEETING ARRANGEMENTS: SET AT EACH MEETING.
CONTACT WITH D/2 AND D/11 IS MAINTAINED, WHEN NECESSARY, VIA
CELLULAR TELEPHONE.

B. ATMOSPHERICS: N/A.

C. INTELLIGENCE: . DAGGERS NOTED THAT ON 30 AUG 93, A

SECOND FORMER RUSSIAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL|

RETURNED TO THE EMBASSY. DAGGERS BELIEVE LEFT

|ABOUT MARCH, 1991. HE HAS RETURNED WITH NO APPARENT
SECRET



SECRET

_ MHFNO: 93-3747541 SENSIND: RYBAT

DIFFERENCE IN RANK OR DUTIES. DAGGERS COMMENTED THAT THEY
FOUND IT STRANGE THAT ANOTHER FORMER RUSSIAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL
(A HARD-LINER) HAD. RETURNED TO A FORMER POST SO SOON AFTER
LEAVING, AND WITH NO APPARENT CHANGE IN DUTIES NOR INCREASE IN

RANK.

DAGGERS HAVE NOT SEEN AT THE RUSSIAN
EMBASSY SINCE HE LEFT. ON HOME LEAVE.

D. OPERATIONAL:

1. COLLECTED PHOTOS AND KDPEEK IN-OUT COMMENTS.
2. ISSUED DAGGERS A BOX CONTAINING AN UNASSEMBLED
CD FOR KDPEEK.

3. PAID D/2 THE AUG 93 SALARIES FOR KDHUSTLE/18
(H/18) AND KDHUSTLE/31 (H/31).

4. D/2 ADVISED HE HAD QUESTIONED H/18.AND H31
REGARDING THE CISN’S DECISION TO NO LONGER PROVIDE KDPEEK WITH
THE NEGATIVES TAKEN FROM THE OP. D/2 STATED THE HUSTLES HAD
INFORMED HIM OF THIS ACTION BY THE CISN ABOUT TWO WEEKS AGO.
THE HUSTLES, AT D/2‘S DIRECTION, MADE SUBTLE INQUIRIES AT CISN
HQS REGARDING THE REASON FOR CISN’S ACTION, BUT WERE UNABLE TO
LEARN THE REASON, ONLY THAT IT HAD BEEN A DECISION MADE BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF VIDEO AND PHOTOGRAPHY AT| HOS. THE HUSTLE
HOWEVER, IDENTIFIED THEIR IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR: AS \

THE AREA DIRECTOR|

THE HUSTLES
DO NOT BELIEVE ANY OF THESE INDIVIDUALS WERE INFORMED OF THE
DECISION BY THE DEPARTMENT OF VIDEO. AND PHOTOGRAPHY.

5. C/O ADVISED DAGGERS TO BE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR
POSSIBLE PRETEXT KNOCKS AT KDPEEK’S DOOR, THIS DUE TO THE
*RECENTLY RELEASED REPORT ON THE<3FK ASSASSINATION, >WHICH

INCLUDED INFORMATION ON PHOTOS TAKEN OF AN INDIVIDUAL AT THE
RUSSIAN EMBASSY. DAGGERS AGREED THAT IF SUCH PRETEXT CALLS AT
THE KDPEEK DOOR OCCUR, D/11. WILL, IF NECESSARY, ANSWER THE
DOOR, APPEARING AS A HOUSEWIFE.

6. C/O WILL BE-OUT OF TOWN 8 AUG THROUGH 10 AUG 93.
ARRANGEMENTS WERE MADE TO HAVE NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING ON 16 SEP
93 AND A DAY OFF FOR BOTH C/O
AND THE DAGGERS, AND SINCE TRAFFIC (BOTH HUMAN AND VEHICULAR)
WILL BE DOWN CONSIDERABLY.

F. PLANS: C/O WILL MAKE APPROPRIATE INQUIRIES OF
BRANCH REGARDING WHAT MAY HAVE CAUSED HOS TO
DECIDE TQ NO LONGER PROVIDE KDPEEK PHOTO
NEGATIVES, SINCE THE.WHOLE AFFAIR MAY STEM FROM A
MISUNDERSTANDING, RATHER THAN FROM A DELIBERATE DECISION BY

SOMEONE AT! Sas RULES OF THE AGREEMENT

SECRET



MHFNO: 93

: SECRET
-3747541 SENSIND: RYBAT

SECURITY LEFT EMBASSY AND WALKED DROVE

T
[ ___| REVERSED COURSE ON [ RETURNING TO THE
AREA. MADE COVER. STOP. AT] ___|STORE IN

DROVE TO: __| THEN TO __JRESTAURANT,
PARKING OPV ON| /STREET. AFTER MEETING, DROVE HOME
ie | THEN TO | / AND ULTIMATELY TO
| NO SURVEILLANCE WAS DETECTED.

3. FILE: 201-1458174, 201-1457250. DECL OADR DRV HUM
4-82.
END OF MESSAGE SECRET

SECRET

