# 104-10177-10034

## Page 1

104-10177-10034

DATE

TO

FROM .

ACTIONI

INFO :

TO

IS SE/SE/SE/ lU

31 JULY 1959

DIRECTOR

HAVANA

WH 5

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

RET

Backg,i.

FILENO:

1121115

Do Noi Reproduce

- Unly

ROUTING

L

AUE 1 29 315

REC'O CAGLE SECT.

RI die the spy as inliabl

Branch mer Pool on deditales

ROUTINE

21-7

INFO PACY]

IN 48532

DIR

CITE HAVA 25,01

INTEL

08

SUPDATA SOURCE AMCLUCK WHO ATTENDED THE 30 JULY MEETING MENTIONED

IN TEXT•

FILED 3128092

HKH 2072 CUBA

SUBJ: REV PLANNING AGAINST CASTRO REGIME

DO1 38 JULY 59 '

PADA CUBA, HABANA 31 JULY 59

APPR 3

SOURCE MEMBER OF THE COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (F)

• 1, UNDER THE LEADERSHIPLOE-MAJOR WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN OF THE

SECOND NATIONAL, FRONT OF THE ESCAMBRAY (SFNE, SEGUNDO FRENTE. NAGION-

AL DEL ESCAMBRAY), MANY OFFICERS OF THE LATTER ORGANIZATION HAVE

JOINED THE CONSPIRAGY AGAINST THE GOVT OF FIDEL CASTRO RUZ AND ARE

USING AS HOS AN INTERVENED HOUSE WHICH THE CUBAN GOVT HAS. ASSIGNED

MORGAN. THESE OFFICERS ARE COLLABORATING WITH FORMER MILITARY

OFFICERS WHO WERE DISCHARGED AFTER CASTRO ASSUMED POWER. ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, HEAD OF THE SENE, KNOWS OF THE CONSPIRACY BUT

HAS NOT YET GIVEN IT HIS OPEN SUPPORT.

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION 8Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Mo.

129;

---

## Page 2

DATE

TO

FROM :

ACTIONA

INFO:

31 JULY:1959

CLASSIFiED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-EaT.

POUTINO

RIC Tade una (check one)

Marked O

Наставит ч

sees rejuired

ROUTINE

IN 48532

INFO

HAVA 205. 81

20 AT A 30 JULY MEETING AT MORGAN'S HOUSE, SENE OFFICERS DISCUSS-.

ED A STRATEGIC PLAN TO CUT CUBA IN HALF BY GAINING CONTROL OF

LAS VILLAS, PROVINCE, REINALDO BLANCO,, FORMER ARMY CAPTAIN AÑD

A LEADER OF A GROUP OF FORMER MILITARY OFFICERS WHO ARE CONSPIR-

ING AGAINST CASTRO, ATTENDED THE MEETING, MORGAN HIMSELF WAS

NOY THERE. (FIELD COMMENT: SENE BATTLE" EXPERIENCE DURING THIS

FIGHT AGAINST BATISTA WAS ALMOST ENTIRELY IN LAS VILLAS PROVINCE.

THUS ITS OFFICERS KNOW THE PROVINCE WELL AND COULD PROBABLY RENEW

HAN SPATHETIC CONTACTS MOE iME FIGHTINE THE LAST REGIME:),

END OF MESSAGE

SHE-C-RET

rUS", 1389 "I TAN REPRODUCTION BY OTHER JHAN THE ISSUNNO. OFFICE IS FEDIBITED.

Cary Na.

173,

---

