ro-0267-10089

-

~ AETURNTO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce ;
. ae : fai /
on Eee by : MESSAGE FORM / A Duan JOUNING 7 \"
emer ered :
pr. 5559 is onl

oat. 11 MARCH 1965 £) rutin cs fut NO. _201-267956

0 . @oxdl__|@ani

4 (5-2U toe (5%
From. DIRECTOR Ver,
on we 4 med h Fite Adah >>>

cfexs efFe- 4, c/EE-3

> rdiati fade:

1 Goun)i54 ws [__Voand(uand) — .

co fe

GESENCAIEE MUR? oe
REF: (BOME)5292 (IN 19152)* 92042

1. NO OBJECTION ACTION PARA FOUR REF. al
2. HOS MOST INTERESTED KNOWING CONTEXT IN wirc (DEBACON) RAISED,

MIN INTERIOR ALERT NOTICE AND ANY INSIGHT AS TO WHY NOTICE OF 1961
VINTAGE RAISED TODAY. IS OUR RECEIPE PARA ONE REF, DATE AS 1961

CORRECT? ANY REASON SUSPECT NOTICE WAS ISSUED AT INSTIGATION SOME

a BUSINESS COMPETITOR? IF DATE 1961 IS CORRECT AND PREDATES AMWHIP/1

ry
PRESENT JEWELRY TMANSACTIONS VIAQUNSNAFU/19 WHAT WAS SPECIFIC NATURE

OF CONTRABAND?
3. AMMHIP/1 DUE ARRIVE IN EUROPE WEEK OF 15 MAR FOR’ HIISPAWN.- ‘

ot.
OP INVOLVING (UNS NAFU/19. WILL PROBABLY VISIT ROME AND GNVA BUT ONLY

FOR COVER PURPOSES. HAS NO OTHER REQUIREMENTS THIS TRIP AND WILL

BE INSTRUCTED MAKE NO CONTACT WITH KUDARK CASE OFFICERS.
4. FYI, NO NEED INFO WAVE ROUTINELY ON AMWHIP TRAFFIC.

ot END OF MESSAGE

+ QeeacoD reper tee that AMWHIP/1 had been subject of 2 1961 Italian s
‘fin, of Interior notice for su: ected “contraband activities." sat

eaerareny)

cornices.

atciknins orice | OF go peceR-E-T

: (pT eaRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 18 PROHI3ITEO Cory Bo

