# 104-10181-10047

## Page 1

104-10181-10047

• )

PRIOR TO FILING

A MAStRUCTIONS

F1ll in Sec:. 2.

on back. Detach back

flap and forward to RID.

Destroy front cover cheer, unless

records significant action

coments requiring, preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

RIDAN

propor.

Inser: propfr!

below

and forward docusen: to RID/AN.

FRUFIR FILENO

BETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TO ALL ADDRESSIES

FILL IN SECTION! ON BACK. IP APPROPRIATE

COMMENTA

TO

3.

raise woos

5R/IIK.

ROON

NO

SC

35

DATE

FORMANDED

INITIALS

297507

5 C

35

12%3

1. 1623

CCU/ATTO

WE/BE/U

2P

NODDEN MIC

-APR-26 1983

1 5008

fle 207-237527

The perlack somewhere;

2N0Y

FyL_

#..d

Hugh

8.

9.

88.

•12.

13.

14.

15.

18.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICAOFILMEO

6100

USE PAIYIOUS

25085

i.es

MICROFILMED

OCT 8 1970

DOC, MICRO. SER.

.it

ABSTRACT

INDER

FILE TITLE

PILE RUNDER ( PRIMARY CODES

201-287527

_MENT DATE

DOLUNINT NUMBER

1Ipr 1963

O612

38399

SECRET

(400

---

## Page 2

SECRET®

Chief/ FIOB

J. F. Heredith

X SLOBODA, Dad 1a11

7550565

30 September 1965

888489527

asylum by the USSR.

BACKGROUND

The following background Information concerning SLOBODA was

obtalned from Army Chief of Staff Intelligence (ACSI).

SIOBODA sas born in Podkamlen, Poland, on Y January 1927

where he attended elementary and high school until 19:3. Be was

employed in the offfee of the myor in Podkamlen from January 1943

to September 1943-

At this time the German Army occupied Poland

and SIOBODA vas sent to Germany as a forced laborer for the period

September 1913 to May 19:5.

When the war in Europe ended in June

1915 SIOBODA returned to his home in Podkamien and wus apprebended

by the Russians. SLOBODA stated he was interrogated and forced to

work for the IKVD in Brandenburg, Germony, as a Russian and German

Isterpreter/transItor until May 19:6. He escaped in Mey 19,6 and

eut to Western Germany bere he vas placed in a DP comp in Kassell,

Gering: SLOBODA remained in the DP camp until February 191,8 : ben

he emigrated to Ingland under the sponsorsbip of the Agricultural

Committee, Isle of Wisht, England. le returned to Cermay la July

1952 to obtain information relative to alien enlistment in the U.S.

Regular Army and was accepted for enlistment under this progres in

April 1953.

'SIOBODA entered the United Itates as an alien enlistee

soldier in Hovember 1953 and was assigned to Port Dix, He. Jersey,

for basie training. Upon completion of his braic training be was

assigned to the 525th MI Group at Fort Bragg, Horth Carolina. His

duties with the unit as that of a language intructor in German

and Russian plus being an laterpreter/translator in tbe same

languages. SLOBODA became a naturallzed citizen on l' August 1953

and the same month was assigned to the 513th MI Group with duty

station st Prankhurt, Germny. This was his place of abelgnment

when ke defected.

SECRET

600% 1

2:1-297527

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

3a AceurdlE tO ACSI, SIOBODA uns Investliatod in 1752, 1954,

1956, 1957 asd 195j with lavorable resulta.

As pert of each investl-

rations polyerach expuination wis given.

The only deception on

TOBODA's part revented by investigation and poly raph as establiabed

In 1954 by bis adulasion that he had meried in England on 12 February

1953 prior to bie enlistment in the U.ã. Army uver the allen program.

After becoming a U.S, eitizen on li Auruot 155' 2I030DA vas frastod a

Mnal BYPA EECRET clearance on 21 August 1958.

4. Invertigation by the Army serealed that:

a. JOBODA telephoned hie wife on 2 August 1900, stating be

night not return hone, and on i August he sent his vite 2000 'hest

Germen Marke (about $500.00). On 9 August be sent hia vife a

post card poetrarked berlin stating "take care of yurself and

children--go homs to mother, I'll try to belp you la Eagland."

An into lew vith bla vine revealed he was depressed over gambling

Losses estimated to be about $1000.00.

D. SIODODA had purchased a round trip plane ticket to Derlla

¡ram Cologne on 2 Auguet, PAA Flight 542/43.

c. Members of SLOBODA's unit revenled that his gumbling and

Indebteiness vere reported to his superior in March or April 1960

and that SIOBODA vas covaselled and directed to fet bla personal

alairs in order. He borrowed $300.00 from the Amerlean Express

Campany and appeared to be complying with the Instructions of his

d. ALOBODA performed clerical duties in the Fublication

proto sent a do

Procurement Section of the Collection and Dissemination Battalion

ASSESSM' O7 DAMAGE RESUITING PROM DEFECTION OF SLOBODA

In August 1260 Col. Fran: ROSS, Chief of the 513th MI Group,

made the following summary concerning SLOBODA:

Access to clascliled information linited to priorizy ITI

collection of publications.

Duties contined to clasalfying, filing and llating of

pubilcations vollected overtly. Did not contact sources for

materind. "id some translating of docunents. His dity was least

senaltive in unit.

-2-

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET:

e. Can fire sothina of value to sovlets excere personality

data re Cano Kins personnel, which data la Cal. PaCE's opinion

they ses anyway ira people they place in Carp Kiné-darianielde

Stress.

d. Duties did sot bring his in coutact vith Collection and

Cs personnel.

6. Col. HOSS repurted a discussion with a Capt. MNLIKOFT, 0-2,

V Corpo, iberein NEINDIOT? indieated that SLOBOllA "2S an o.Tlcer in

ulish Intelligence prior to defecting from Poland, adding that thi

as comon mowledge at Port Bragg where SLOBODA vas stationed tra

1954 to 2958.

palygraph intervieus by the Aruy between 1952 and 1953.

Otber sources

Indicated no redord of SLOBODA's being connected with Polish Intel-

ligerce.)

7. One Captein Jack KARNING, U.S. Aruy, stated in Frankfart on

2 September 1960 that be knew SLOBODA well as a mender of his (MANITO's)

Section 525 MI Group at Part Meade, Maryland, in 1953 and that SLOBODA

then had access to cunsiderable personality information concerning

Army Intelligence.

SLOBIDA A KNOWINGS OF CIA PERSONNET

D2. 08

CIA staff employee assigred to the

[German Station iron 1956 tu 1962,

SAV SLOBODA

about three times in the latter's orfice concerning the acyuisition of

plans, ete.

knowledge of SLOBODA. Hone bed any personal contact with him bu

felt that they had seen b'm at the Camp King cortee bar.

but 83

tronaht 1t conceivable that SIOBODA could have learred the true nanes

of CIA amployees at Camp King.

POSSIBLE RECRUTIMENT ATTIRT BY SLOBODA

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

"The tiro mist recent SIS recruitment speritions wore directed

against e irrant dificer and n Depeutrent si the Army Cirilina

nss:ened to USAREUR Intell'gence in West Berlin. Buth appeaches

vere ude •Ith letter: delivered out=ide normal postal chonsel:

an "ere preceded by telechone calls stating that the latter: had

been delivered.

The letter; Invited the USAREUR personnel to Attend

retting. in East Berlin with Soviet representatives. Both vare

promiser substantial paynents if they agreed to cooperate. Ií the

offery vere refused, allegei operational errors comitted by both

individuals would be reported to USAREUR Intelligence authorities.

The method of nuthentication employe? in both enses involved songe

broadcast et a certain time over the Groug of Soviet Forces,

Germany (G3FO) radio iseilities. The phraseology und contents

Indieated that the letter. had been prepered by the same ageney and

possibly ritten by the same person. The sinilarity to earlier

approach letters, tentstirely identified au having been written by

the Cormittee for State Securlty (KGB), suggests that the XGB was

also involved in these uperatione.

"The lead on the cirilion employee apparently was provided by

USAREUR Intelligence je.ector Vladimir SLOBODA, who deserted in

August 1960 and sought asylum in the USSR.

The initial telepbove

call advising that the letter had been delivered is also believed

to have been made by stoBIa.

The lead on the warrant officer as

probably obtained by tbe 3IS from Poliah Intellipence which sue-

seeded in neutrallzing several sources handled by the arrant

the Intorpation nas presumably forrarded to the KeB by

Cortet Intelligence advisory working sith the Illah cervlees.'

CORCLUSION

10. It is not known whether SLOBODA is nfilliated with the soriet

Intelligence Services at this time. Aecording to a Forelga jervice

Dispetch, datel 19 Degerber 1962,

from the Anerican Embassy, Moscor,

Mr= MarY SCHULAZ DUTTANIC, :1Fe of Anerieen defectorWareph DUKARICE

(reportedly now deceased),

stated during an intervier at the Babassy

that she bad frequent contact "ith "Walter" (probably Vladinir) SLARDA

and his british site who restied in lov. According to Mrs. DUFKAMIC,

SLOBODA was disillusioned and vas ettemotine to leave the soviet Union

but had been unable to obtain exit vísas.

John F. Meredith

JFM: kad

SECRET

-4-

---

