104-10180-10098)

RETURN To ¢

RE NT i

Backorsung Use Ont
Do Not Reproduce

19 December 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Manolo RAY

1. On 18 December 1964 the undersigned lunched with

RAY at the Hotel Anbassador and briefed him on the high-

_ lights of contact made with Mr. Crimmins at State on the
afternoon of the 17th of December.

2. RAY is crushed over the fate of his plans to
export his arms to Costa Rica. I told him our Ambassador
had received a negative reply from the Costa Rican Govern=
ment as end user about 28 November. RAY pointed out that
this must have been the second or even third visit paid by
our Ambassador to Cesta Rican authorities on this matter
and he stated he believes these multiple comings and goings
must have given the Costa Ricans the impression the U.S. is
against the shipzest. I told him apparently Oduber got out
of touch with current thinking in Costa Rica, but RAY
believes there were just too many visits on the matter. :
The part about internal political considerations in Costa
Rica did not seen to impress RAY much,

3. Per discussion with Mr. Crimmins, I then raised
the possibility of arranging another end user who would have
more guts, RAY,said he would look into it but that thero
was really no point in even beginning discussions in an
informal way, if subsequently the U.S, Ambassador was going
to queer the deals by either his attitude or his statements
to the next potential end user. RAY asked {f we could give
him some assurances that in the event he lines up another
end user and in the event our Ambassador in such a country
is sent to check it out, we could not have the Ambassador
instructed to say something along the following lines:

"The U.S. is benevolently neutral towards RAY.
If you wish to act as the end user, we would sympathize
with your decision, but we are not asking you to accept
the shipment cor act on our behalf."



Tigariow ToPaND WOT POW
L covemestor GX 7 stow

perce:

Po escrassiet
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

Mr. Marelius
Bay Ca hirs

Yar. Wraved ing |
eoiete|

{ACTION
[APPROVAL

Remarkat

There are three questions that RAY
wants answered. Should I endeavor to
answer them, if so, how?

3, On 43 Dec LT adea@ Crrmurms

Soe Wha Tre Oil oy Laden
wt Shey: We never

nig val Lh Rok ag

Phone ne, Qucrte Oreo

arvek $2ek Wie Sates
Answem

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER,
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS ANO IONE WO.
Mr. Anderson WH/SA/SO/CA 7264
2708 Has

Sr oes

"%

288


the question is going to be more academic than real, I
told RAY that our people felt he would have a better chance
of surviving if he waits another three to six months for
his attempt, and this seemed to cheer him up, but he says
his plans have been progressing very well the past two to
three months, and I can see he has been keying himself up
to the action, 2

8. RAY will be at home in Puerto Rico (he hopes) by
Monday night, 21 Decembor, [ am to call him at 767-6138,
his home, tf anything ts doing. An alternate contact
would be Raul Chibas in New York.

9, I made one small proposal of my own, namely that
RAY try to sce if he might not be able to persuade the
Costa Rican Government to accept a lesser number of arms
as end user, He did not think much of this idea,

10, Tho attached torn page from U,S,. News and World
Report was given by me to RAY to serve as a bona fides
the event I have to send someone to him whom he does not

know.

11. RAY stayed last night with Felipe Pazos, formerly
of the Banco Nacional de Cuba, now employed by the OAS.

Cbert,w bom

CHARLES W, ANDERSON
WI/SA/SO/CA

‘

Attachment:
Bona fides in envelope



I told RAY I would try to get an answer to this
and hoped if [ did tt would stick.

4, RAY then wanted to know what markings are absolutely
minimum for the weapons and bills of sale. I told him I'd
look into this and try to get him an answer, pointing out
to him the troubles in tho present marking system. He told
me the word "Model" docs not actually appear on the weapons,
nor does the word "serial," which somewhat improves the
situation, I told him not to do anything with the markings
now on the weapons without further word from us, because
he might do even more harm than heretofore. He says he can
eliminate the tree and JURE, which are on the trigger guards.
He does-not scem to know exactly what markings are on just
how many pieces of equipment, but he thinks at least some
were put’on a couple of weeks ago. I am surprised at his
vagueness on this point.

5. RAY finally asked the following questions designed
to shed light on just how confidential the export of arms

is kept in the U.S

How confidential is the export permit? Who has to
know about it? Is it ever publicized? Does it have
to be publicized? What security rules govern tnis ‘
matter with respect to other U.S, agencies involved,
such as Customs?

I told him I would try to find out about this, but
indicated my belief that when several departments in at least
two governments are involved, secrecy cannot well be guaran~
teed, especially when the arms firm involved (Erquiaga) has
been having some legal troubles and is being watched,

6. RAY still thinks it would be better not to have
the correct serial numbers show on the B/L and asked if
there would not be some way to control just one inspector
who would merely check the amounts, not the markings, on
the shipment. RAY would give us an honest run-out of the
numbers, I told him there was no possibility of running an
operation against another U.S, Government agency.

7. The conversation was so unsatisfactory that I did not
raise the limitations posed by Mr, Crimmins on RAY's radio
commo. This can wait until later, as right now it appears


IN YOUR PERS:

To enable taxpayers to get an early sta
under changes in the rules made by the 1964
Service has come out early with its annual

TAX-LAW CHANGES. In reading the guide
with your tax forms near the end of the ye
attention to these 10 important changes in’

1. Sick=pay rules are tightened up so t
y waiting perlod before sick pay cun be
2. Casualty losses ean be deducted only
3. Deguctions no longer are allowed for
tags, driver's Licenses, cigarettes and lige
4. Gain on sale of a noge by a tuxenyer
$20,009 of the sale price, and the tax is re

$. Zeductions for wedtetnes and drugs ¢
on PALL cost--not Just amounts in excess of

5 credit ou dividends ts red
but! the on is raised fF

T. Moving expenses in connection wit?
move {5 to take a job with a new employer.
S. Deduct iid care ty a vor
and the Mnitatton on Incoue in the case o
9. The retirerent-ineose gredit 1s asc
not entitled to credit on
2. A/diniona standard deduction of §20
exegption 15 Jlivwed, even when it is more t.

where the wife

Instructions with your tax
only briefly. Your return «11
the benerit of a tax guide such as
greater detail than the instruction i
de tor ts from the Superinte
Bui02. Be sure to order by Utle, *Y

Latest ational average:
mortgages-not backed by the Gevernment--

wen for the inte of December 7, 1964. Volume LVN
NEWS & WORLD REPORT


1

charges,
+ Ber cent. The averag

29 natlonwide survey of te:

ertcans have dintetes, on
Stimite of the U.S. Publi

five tices as often among

if you have » diutetic in your
rsielan give you u blood test for

om the Treasury Departaent t,
inge these bonds for H bonds w:

9st, you must do 30 within

0.57 por cent: Length of

vere compiled by
ders, Ee

i@ more than halt
ic Health Service,
blood rolatives of
Toatly, the
dlatetes.

0 holders of
ithout paying

six eonths after

| bonés begun anturing last May. This

F bonds, last of which matui

ing to tuy a Christmas tree

tips on how to te sure you

ors through the follage to see

* needles rata
1 you get the tree home, sav
1 of water, and sprinkle the

latest count, 76 colleges
‘blo students
thelr expenses. The National
3 thet 35,000 Comcp
vwerege of $2,000 ¢:
"HOS with eomoperative progr:
Po to: Nattonel Comatesion

w York, WY, LoOla. ith

to the colleges for eetatls.:

lerstandings about a nex ine

v2, the Yeterans Administra
s05t for these with low inesne.
Incomes. 2. The tnerea:
Prior to July 1, 1960,

Ae wn. inte effect ot un

ertation fer your said,
whieh you guy Soetal Seeu-tey ¢
ater tiezet, ar eubt te
Pocash tc pay her
udes iy unts on ahteh

"her

~¢

in ares

"
sticn ern be oltsines ey
at of Acricuitare, waunin. te

Equipgent and

end the Juiy* i g-1on,

red in April,

+ SO experts of
get a fresh one
if it feels

+ 4nd tap the butt un the

the butt
foliage datly,

now efter
to alternate between jots and

Commission for

vis by sending
for Cooperative
this list a

thet ratses
tion makes
3 and szallest

Sep do not apply to
do net size

rare

time,

© you have to

axes for here

and

id take her

to buy sas aad

Day tax.

tal

Tae
