# 104-10413-10383

## Page 1

110410413-10383

SEGRET

2 3 00T 1975

Rup Revico Stare

Bonuty Diroctor for déninistration

Senate Sairet. Coanictos

gausst

soforance is hade to a reporendua, captionad es abovo,

dated 3o Soyomber 1975 forrardãne crales of arribli doessorts

Eron the office of security files conceraina

Chose docurente vore requested bynir. Jegfrey

reyuen,

coloce Lonnicros Grafo, mio commonecua rorier of de

gios on 20 Sentenbor 1975.

2

The osrico of Sechrity Les conclaued d staurate Torien

22 t3

Filos 230 has

cortain contonts thorso?

confollestag 1toos be provided

Fie Senato Seisez Cunsicres:

Les darvey Esw21:

Tae tàoo coninina raw, morstmales repore

fros

centaining his exportint of an bila-

sation clot

vorrat Oswald mis in tod tori

112r 10. tue Mater 51 1962, haring conciet dich

= 0:503.

Catenged to 19s226 parade Tole as

oriniat rorost,

comments, seggesting receipt of the report cérca

Z0 December 1963.)

Readily

availadie public and Office of

security information concernino Oswald make.

se reference tu the possibility of his beine

in New YorK City in

the Winter of 1962.

warrenCommasion. did not: pursde such a fine

uf inquiry:

Document Number

1352-1060

for FOlA Roviaw on

MAR 1977

C30"

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Thurs is no avidanes in che

files

the file of the suurco, Enrique Razonto Shascal

(v. Feronguer), 8730043,

that

this inforgation

ves procariss cut of the difice of socorical

Security

Research State, to maical

reporto.!

the inforsxtion.. Horover, is

S2ates

Cisgreport;

•I urged Abascal

wit?

tia inforsailon,

and

TJ. 35.00

the

offared to

3052010 €

secting.

to provisod

co:toll the.

the

and made contace through do agent (O'Arien)

whou no lacs socouse of past ictivities.

Foyarding Abascal.

his office of Securisy

file

contains the rollerine concomint

his

raIscity:

Ofrico of Socuritr/security Research

Senfo sonoranine Sated 15 Aunt

igot:

Mascal has

for several year;

Furnisted

inforsation

to 51.5

proven to be utterly morthless and

usually

fictitious

office of security/Security Nescarci

Stuff tenorandan

Eaten Tropsy 1913:

'(Ahaocaly has Furaished Source mit:

inchligence information bich dozoars

io be congiete fabrication:

3 Sentenbor 1003 coatinned

Horinion!?

¿crocrata Cristimo. (6):

contairs

folloviao statecents about dingsai

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

It 15 ropar0ao the Difice

ni gecurity/.

Socurity desserci

Store had

103600 10

question cie veracitr of Muscal prccladia.

further ciosemination of the intorarion;

and that tiero was a reason to believe

shot abascal would robert the Inforcacion

to ihe: 1XI for thair action:

Arlinaton Douse, kun ishers

The files cocain a pur, evaluated

containing his

Igortiar

as allogation taos ClA had Partix?

сортов ск,

aid once

attenated full control

Arlington louse, publishero.

tracked to 17328a5 pazorandia, Rass;

original

resort is woll

as copies of attondant documents.

The files

cruisin no Lurther clarification of the

intomizion.)

moro is no ossica or Sacialed gusject

1320

in to none or Arlinuten House. or

Publisheree

Fror othar sources

i Mould appear

that arlington touse,

Aslisters

con-

nected vian the concorvaris

Causes

Hillinar. ductley are cherration!

07834

Lachley is a forber Arogey Coplayse

His close somections vitafomer Agonsy

chayne to 104a1Y tit

ors racenti;

ricolved cronsive gublicity. 1: 15

pallaved chat sumerous foner frency

espiorces aro linked vira Suckley's causes.

6000111n

• !.

i-ii

**:.

SD3R57

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SEGRET

Tonn

Intention

is agein directod to tis coaceras o2

i.!?

office of doct?.

23

sharesson in the Infcrenced noco-

Thala,

that. the

Pils ocunnito and ali statanonts

chough

not classifica

as suci,

to protect the individuals

-raisily

sad prudently

ioniciod therein.

Robert

Caribino

Director of Security

dies

Distribuzion:

-Alaresses x/ates

-UDA w/s atts

1 - D/Security w/o atts

i-

US Registry w/o atts

(1DD PSI. watts:

1 SAG v/atts

File watts

OS/PSI/SAG/J&Brovn: jan (210CT75)

---

