# 104-10097-10302

## Page 1

104-10097-10302

COPIED MISSACE

SECRET

0

• SEXICO CITY

LICIT, SAS 8. (945 NOTIFIED ALI CÓPY SLOTTED ATI 1215 19 NOV LED).

• DOP, ADEP, C1, 61/OPS, FI, EEL", WAY 70: VR

SECRET 191613Z

ist 83N63860

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 6948

TYPIC BEDOX

1. [OUSTAR SOW AND OLSZEUSHI SPENT ENTIRE DAY 18 NOVEMBER SIOHISEEING

CHID DIWING VITH WIVES. FOLLOWING REPORTED BY GUSTAF SONS

A• OLSZEUSHI RETURNING PARUMEN FOS O/A 29 NOVEMBER. WILL

CONTINUE AS CONMERCIAL REP FOR INDEFINITE PERIOD.

BO OLOZEUSKI INDICATED PRO-WESTERN VIETS AND INTEREST IN PBPRIME

INICRATION AND RESETTLEIENT, MAJOR CONCEANS ARE FINANCIAL

-CURITY, LOUCATION FOR TUO CHILDREN AND CONFIDEICE IN ODYCKE

COMMITINENTS. HIS DREAM IS TO DEN A HOHE AND LIVE IN PEACE.

C. OLSZEWSKI A LADIES MAN AND DOES NOT GET ALONG WITH WIFE WHO

IS INSECURE AND POSSESSIVE. HER MAIN INTEREST IS TO MEEP HUSDAND

KORE AND IF FOPRIME IS DEST PLACE FOR IT SHE COULD SEE ADVANTAGE

I RECTTLICIT. WIFE EXPRESSED CONCES FOR MEN MOTHER ENO SIGN

AND STILL IN POLAID, DUT OTHERVIDE NOT ANXIOUS TO RETURN POLAND

LITER FOALIDE TOUR.

DO OLSZELORI AND FAMILY PLAN TRIP TO ASAPULCO ON 20 MOVEADER.

[CLOPERCOM)OUE BACK IN MIAMI GE THAT DAY, DUE AGISEE SINY BATH OLSZEVSKS:

FOR ANOTHER SEVERAL DAYS IF WE REINDURSE MIN SICO PER DIDI FOR

LOST INCIS FROM POSOHIATRIC PRESTICE, CHEON HE DILL DOO REQUCOT

13205

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4-J2

---

## Page 2

CLAIMED PERRACE

Nº386 PAGE 2

GILET STULP OFFICE HIAMI GALL ON EUSTARSON SI DOSS SONEST TO

SIPLAIN UADEVT NATURE SE GASE ANDIGUSTAFOON JUELAY AN RETU

MAN TO SEE IS

MEMORIAL KESPITAL, HIANI.

3. THIRKIST PLANS TO HOVE IN ON OLSZEUSKI AT LUNCH C:

AS INFLUENTIAL ODYCHE CFFICIAL AND FRIEND OF [CUSTASSON INO ENBINEERED

#CUTION WITH OLSZELSKI, WILL START BY ELICITING OLSZEUSKI'S CONDITS

C: HENRY RAINCUT'S STORY IN NEW YORK TIMES C? 1A KOVLADER.

IF

DIGTEUGHT DESPONDO TO SUGSIRNTICE ALIGATION, VILL MARE CORREE FAGON

TO CONTINUE RELATICOCHIP THEN OLSZEUSKI IS I FORCIES. WILL CERER

TORY CUCSTRITIAL FINANCIAI BENEFITS, GUARAGICE CE iNMIGRATICH,

ISCOTTLENCIT GOD ELUCATIGN OF CHILDREN AFTER CCMPLETION OF TOUR

I FORUNCH. ROVISE MAXINUA AUTHORIZED COMITIENT.

A suCcEST MERGER CALLORICELE TO SES IF ME ADOLS OLSZEYS!.

FIGHT FLY BEICOL ICRE TO GACY LIVING FROOT CE CUCCESS STORY

CLOZLUORI MIGHTITIÓN TO REPEAT.

* TRAMMIST MILL OTAY CLOSE TO OLSZEVORI VITIL ME DEFARTS FOR

13205

7- JU

---

