# 104-10071-10246

## Page 1

104-10071-10246

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

HOS

REPORT. COVER SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

REPORT NO.

CONTROLLED DISSEM

UY04082

DATE OF REPORT

as February 1064

RD. NO.

HUNK KILLE

S'CE ch.

INTEL DYVOUR

BOUTSO: CUDAMRZA-8 SION ARDOTTO RODRICUEZ BlanCO (pArS I'

and Plaoido BARBEITE (para 2).

See UFGA 14079 10r 1n10

BID:

Ple inder.

Croup 1: Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Doolesaiiication

COLATEY

APPE

NUMER BELON NIED NOT DA PILLSO IN IP DUFLICATIO IN ACCOUPAN

Towe nep

DIGTRIDUTION

INTIBRASSONACY

KITTEE 54335%

ngo.

0O/C/

Banto

JEBARR

1 cy, each to M1aa1 rope:

State

P.B.I.

NO, 0F ENCLOGURRS

2 Met

1208E

PADA

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DO!

Et outta 122

1467

EDITION.

INDRA X

36-7-6

8928.

---

## Page 2

14-00000 - ==

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

Cabino duo cou doome.

to +601 8441907

Cond, and to pro

: 0.09690

OOMIDRITIAL

COMTROLLRD DI BARA

SUSICI

ErCOAraSIOna ly ROlAndO ArCadIO

Bacond Invacion Attanpe

JA'E OF RIGORI

25 February 1904

NO PAGES

i

01 BALES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

11 Fobruary 1004

INFO

PLACE 8

DATE ACO UNI BOS 358C63 31291

TO TA TO NORMAT ON SOURCE

GHAN MiS AN. DE

UFG. 4662

SOURCE:

Verna, Latin Amarican military officer who at ono tima

resided in fait. and the bominican lepublic.

Ho still

mintsino fairly clons iriondabipo with oificiale of thoro

Bourco la a trainod reporter and his information

Bag beg rollablo in the paat.

AccOrdIaT tO Alporto Dodrimos Blancor si Cuban exile ubo 1a

Tolose Bo eric ayacreastro,

a confidant of Rolando Arcadio

Zoyas intendod to fly to Santo Domingo fros

on 16 Yobruary 1984 as inatructed by bolorror 1n an

endo cigar tochalcian, in connoction with lanterror'a prepara-

Cions to back Cantavo.

Masferrer, a woll-known Cuban arms

runner, had providod Cantave with

11 nancial support for the

abortivo invasion of Halti in id-1963.

-AceddIna do placId Carbolta, arathor clodo irload of Zayaa,

Yayan was in liani recontly trying to buy arm for inalerter,

wich bo planned

to abip to a location outalde the Unitod Staton

fer oventual uno by Cuntave in bia offorta to overthro Francols

1o

Field Comment: It has been previously reported that

Basterrer has been negotiating with Leon Cantave in

another attempt to overthrow Francois Duvaller, using

Dominican territory as a base of operations

---

