# 104-10221-10022

## Page 1

104-10221-10022

SEGRET

612.24.00

Chief, Promol Security Divloion, 0s

26 Hurch 190

Irector, Dazoatle Contact Bervi

Red, Iltchell Livngston, Ill Revocation of DOD Decurity

$27636

Clearance/Reoost Cortect

1TH-056-71

the information poported in tho encloned polfelontory

mores, pains Subject's colf-laltlaced contact vich our

Mons Bald Office, my ba ca arterest.

2. Cho Oreleo Of the General Counsel ond I Plyleton have

bean appriocd of cubjeet a recons activities.

irected ta

say eventiona sartal

to this revormts should be

Bre: 1033.

$ 10997! 1, 0 data.5

21

toco is an

---

## Page 2

I Thone

N18 056-71

10 Korch 1971.

ATTN

Directors Monoutle Contact Service

John HicConnell

Jolin Grcany (OGG):

Chief, Hiant Fiold Office,

Mitchell Livinraton hercul

On 9 Mar 22 we recolved a long distance coll, presumbly frog Condor

Bigger ciorilar on subles, who ta on old and unvory confict be inte

offico doting fron 1052 Vertell has boen involved in a vortety of scrajos,

tho intent of which concerned on abortive invocion of latti which John Creamy

wan vury nuch concerned about a year or co 03o.

Herbell otated that tho Dorartcent of Defense had Just revocod his

eccurity clourance on croundo of herkel)'s "trivolous bollor" in the Hullian

coper.

cruell stutco thnt ho intonded to "cight it to the Suppere Court*s

Do hod alys kept us aid other Terento of the US Covernient Inforced con-

corning developrenth in the Huttian ratter.

verbert asked if there mus mytlins that we coutd do for big in the

say of interceling for lift with the Dos, and ve infored lin bluntly and in.

no uncortato terra that ho was strictly on his ca, und no could do nothing

for lili:

He then acked 16 lt would be vortladsto to cubpoena bart Guanley.

Nic Incorned hin that it was up to his attorney to cuto such recocrendationg.

Herbelt secred to get the cessage, and then offered to leap ua auvised

regarding an niteced Corthcocing attort on lasti ditch to being sensored by

Kolando lurferror, even Brough Nasferrer do currently incarcerated in a federal o

cutd he cicht be in touch vath us agatu.

in viey of Herbell's second he folt that thiu latest contact chould

Do o catter of record and that coo should be infoncd of developents.

DFC/C53

SEGRET

41.15

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

F12. 28-00

2a my 1960

trootos, Darest do Content Barvie

chief, Services Dirtales)

wale Mitchell Le

27605

mim - 084-6%

The melosed copy of amorandies fras our Mast Offer,

gardins the cat remartativoo inguary for intonention con

cerate Sabloco, lo forvarded for your necordo not poc015le

future raference.

assed to

SECURITY

malesuros de stated elove

1:20%

4.i1?.

Ting

aird tra ethanas

et.

SEGEST

---

## Page 4

UNITED STATES COSFRNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

Director, Domestle Contact Service

PROM : Chief, Mant Field Office

subject: Local ost Inguiry Recarding Information on Mitchell

L. Werbell:

DATE: 25 May 1969

MIN - 084-69

On 15 May 1069, Spectal Agent Dave Ploumen, Local OSt representatlvo,

USA, Kiostod the Mant Fleld Office to solfelt any information wo mient

have

regarding Mitchell L. Worholl who apparently lu undergoing a recurtty

clearance check as the revult of presently being caployed by a company

with a government contract.

Werbell was an unsolicited contact of thia orfice beginning in

959 and he reached pork notortety In November 1907 doä result of hig

Involvement In the Rolaido Masferrer trial In

nection with the abortly

Hustlan Invasion.

John Grewney, osa was

1: no the timo to overseo

Agency Interents:

3.

Ploimen In contauting. ochor. us do

eatingencies locally

Including the Un Attorney's offtce sonchor.

ved'an Indication that. CIA

hal Information on Herbell; thus flounon'e villa do the utant Field orrice.

4.

It was

Indicated to Plowon, who 1s inada personu to no several

members of thig

stair, that we knew of Herbell and thint on occupion he .

mail reged unsolleited incoration. It was sueeled, horever klat

counca airect his sequest offlelally throuch channels viu ost gehey

Ilalion offleer in Washligton.

Tuls lo for background and 1u being corwarded at

th

or local CIA security.

: paw

i/. 4"

201.214

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

calos, ment piera orrio

Direotos, Damorso content sorvico (Servloce Diviatoa)

22 May 1969

3 1001-084-69

Thah you sos the infomiation repoited la tha reforent. Te

mastion mado by your ofthec that oft direct tua raguest thre

affietal socialey atomoln do entiroty connet. In the fitar,

osovor, 18 wal la belanal and aurelatcd 1l you will sor

correep anience portaladay to nocurity notters airectig to teo

Beeurity lantar preleer, nither than to Eupport Starl.. Tela

meros tiss su pechino she lucorasion en the eporoprinto cherunai

tor ang oct lo chat mày bo tralcnica.

4.46

SEGNET

Lettertai frag estasiasa

tor sfrante art

---

## Page 6

112-2700

CONFIDENTIAL

CAr 8010010s

INTEROFFICE NEMORANDUM

DATE 1 5 JuLy 1969

TO

Director, Domentle Contact Service

SUNBCT: WERRETL, Matchell Livingoton rit

FILE NO:

#27686

1127999

Reference is onde to your request for security checke on the subject

person ag

a source of intelligence information.

The 13 to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with

the following

resulto:

No additional Information has been obtained, except for buch

biographie information as iraicated below or in the attachments

b.

Information has been received that Subject was inventigated with

favorable rcaults in

c.

Certaln Informatton her been received and appears in the attache

ment which: your Division will wioh to consider in determining

the extent, and level of your use up subject.

3.

Tt in to be noted

that our checks were made on the bands of the Identllying

Information you rurntaned or la an atlachment to this nemorendon.

Should 1t be dis

closed that this Information is erconcous or that Subject In known by a different

name, this Division should be notified immedintele.

Ch! 6T

Pitonnel securi Division

Attnchment:

State Passpott Report

Sunmary

RESTRICTED

EYES ONLY

422 7

4.45

1124a

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

26 April 1967

on 29 Aprtl 1967 the current passport file of Witchall he vErgeLE

wan rontound de the Pansport Office, Departmentol Btate.

The collaring

1o a surarry of the infamation contained thereini

Brths

C March 1928 at hiladelphia, Connoylvania:

(Verifies by birth certificnto)

PASSPORT ISSUE!

At Went, Borida, on 29 May 1962, Pesagort Hunbor

0-302133, 80r a tup veck trip to England and Gerry

for the purpose of busineuu.

Basidence:: TD 1l,: Powdor Springo, Ceorgla

occupatlon: Public Rolations and Advertining

Brecutivo.

JunTer'o Pllu sip revools shat the ledernt Darenu of Irvestign-

then has intoritten portatning to JuBC concerning his Arlverent

123/70

CONFIDENTIAL

1.45

---

## Page 8

DATE 31 July 1957:

iLY DUDUM TO 8 CALeR, MIAMI FIELD OFFICE

PiN

Director, Drootie Contact Service

(Servicon Division)

security Creck Complotion m US Cstizen

(n) Des R 10-30, dated 1 duly 1905

dilacted

ina nótico be decurtly clock crepiecion on Lae, lidiritual

¡to S auproved Suulect'e exploitattón an a couca of intelle

Pis leeratore e tie level or canadlesed tataration mich say un 41-

so your decretion.

An Lidicated ln the nctacuuent, the 0s provided a Surary or derouetori

a: restos for you to coustier in deceralata, the level ar cinculpica areciune.

is crunch uy serviceo Diviaton by un fryco Oily Edbrandua Saico 41l1

iver n miue linne tent to the one unrind on the lover left corler on thei

lines udo this nuner to identiry s sumery wth an irdividual.

me i3 dimcto tuat the field chief, after readins the intoraston;

lire 10 to notablish the loval of clapolfial aleclosure, if cy, at io

A tate daidanca co ula do taco Spectediat an nio retailond with the obarce

hiv cineration araclose the inture do the dericatory intormerion

C001.10: 3y0110d10be

e told cared, after part: an appropeld?

op:: 11303 01 the dillac vied renpret to te decially ratis

tar airldund, will thau elther danircy ths tricriction cr place the i

molot envologe wateh

wail chrry tbo cavant:

mi Field Cetice.

INOS R.

Matin

"Restricted" No Classified Info

to be revealed. Check with Mr. Gleichauf before

contactivu

159t

GROUP I

maluded fras quEdatic

3:4i

deciossification

4.45

---

## Page 9

SECRET

F12.78-00

Chler, Pereonnel recurity Divleten, 08

prete poete dolet barrico

TROKTI, Itchell To -

Rocent Teleptione Call Sron Chat CRAY

Angalos ro Posstule hasslantlon

In US ct Close Relitive of Wadle East

A: 127900

Raler

2 February 1967

raine for set or of a or a in we mad ate?

of this Office, ban discunces this

attor WIth Dro Lon Poptes, FBI,

,wo said the FBI villicontact Su

gret and CRAy, end vill cubaoquently naviue us of any nction they

night sant us to take.

Any questions pertaining to taig senorendur should bo

alrected to

DA: 2738

Enclosure:

Folotypo Contacts/ian1-1710

dated 50 February 1957

JEC

---

## Page 10

6857

CC- FBI Via OS

SECRETI

SECRET 201530Z CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 1710

CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

ATTN:

file

Fea: 20 II so AM 67

FROM:

1.. WE MAVE RECEIVED A MOST UNUSUAL PHO

VE CALL FROM MITCHELL

WERBELL, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, DETAILS OF WITCH FOLLOWR

• 2.

WERBELL IS A SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WHO HAS BEEN IN

OCCASIONAL CONTACT WITH THIS OFFICE, OF HIS OWN VOLITION, SINCE 1959.

WHILE AN UNSAVORY CHARACTER, MUCH OF THE INFORMATION HE NAS

FURNISHED HAS PROVED TRUE. ME FURNISHED COMPLETE DETAILS ON THE

RECENT HAITIAN INVASION PLAN. THE PHONE CALL WAS RECEIVED BY BART

GONZALES FROM HIM AT 1108 HCURS ON 18 FEBRUARY. HE STATED THAT HE HAD

JUST HAD A TELEPHONE CALL FROM CHET GRAY OF LOS ANGELES, NO ADDRESS

(PHONE 274-4922).

3 GRAY STATED THAT HE HAD BEEN APPROACHED REGARDING THE

POSSIBLE ASSASSINATION IN THE U.S. OF A CLOSE RELATIVE, POSSIBLY

A BROTHER OR SON, OF A MIDDLE-EAST RULER, WITHIN THE NEXT IO DAYS.

HE DID NOT FURNISH THE NAME OF THE ALLEGED VICTIM, NOR BY WHOM

HE WAS APPROACHED. GRAY TOLD WERBELL THAT HE DID NOT WANT

TO GET INVOLVED IN AN INCIDENT THAT MIGHT CAUSE INTERNATIONAL

4.4!

---

## Page 11

SECUR TY

PAGE 2 CONTACIS/MIAMI 1710 SECRET

REPERCUSSIONS AND ASKED VERBELL FOR ADVICE. WER

BELL ADVISED GRAY

TO INFORM THE RDI IN LOS ANGELES, BUT GRAY WAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO.

WERBELL THEN ASKED GRAY IF HE WOULD BE VILLING TO TALX WITH A

MEMBER OF CIA AND GRAY AGRESD. VERBELL TOLD GRAY THAT IF A

REPRESENTATIVE OF CIA CONTACTED HIM, WERBELL'S NAME WOULD DE

USED AS ENTREE.

4.

THE ABOVE SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING OUT OF THE "ARABIAN NIGHTS,

BUT I DID MEET A CHET GRAY FROM LOS ANGELES AT A LOCAL CONTACT'S

HOUSE IN 1962, SOME DETAILS OF WMICH ARE CONTAINED IN OOA(S)5601

AND OOARS) 5598 DATED 18 DEC G2. GRAY IS A NOTORIOUS HOODLUM

AND MIGHT EASILY HAVE BEEN APPFOACHED FOR SUCH PURPOSE.

SA. PLEASE HANDLE THE ABOVE AS YOU SES FIT.

SECRET

Sum

BT

Püpich say s

Cana

FBI WIT

To thei

9nL.

SEN - Will advise if

THey

LeT us To Tale

---

## Page 12

1272:00

purity Dirtaion,

08

Diro

i0 Contact Bervico

DI Laion)

mication fron Chet CRAY

A127,00

Against foreten Diplocat

Interest

RUs: 31 DO tenorandon deted 2i Pouriary 1967, Laso mbjoce

8h Fabruary 395T

matter Gi one on 23 nobrus ry 1907

PosteD was for

atrero Any questione tortentor to 221015

Cantory

or Sita

naina choula be

Pielerura: An atated apor

CCs Vo, Som Papica

Thorad: pat

---

## Page 13

DIE, 23 FebruarY 19GT

sinsors satcholl lossell/chat cray

in coicer tho plesed acidation cotcao crotos a rosal distance.

Caus staled that uneco de barry man so co castlacede rou

to to cio

Coverass of Coltforlo, 23 Moral

Talo sortion dua piron to can touch

60!

chief, lind Offyce

ng

SECURITY

4:43

---

## Page 14

84 FER 1967

VERBaLt,

Mitchell

DATE AND

-CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

(Corant,

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

• (101 48200

- 8 Varch 1918-Philadelphie, Pa.

127900

•LACK OF DIATA CITILENANIP

CITIZENANIP

Vale

COMPLETA

Present

Ponder Springe, Georgia

PALET MANI

Present

wender Of Organizosk

Communi on

alexis, Inc.

Lo Corfas

Inc.

Werbell-South, Inc.

Fender Springs, Georgie

Ariants, Georgia

Atlanto, Georgis

etlanles, Georgia

FISH

1O. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFOT

1201

( COM0420

INCEGOING PULL MABE CITIZENSTIE

CITA CH

PARENTA ANO CHILDREN.

8 7 FEE K0

4.4.2

C1C09T090

---

## Page 15

14-00000

BUSINESSE

SECTET

VINCHEL LO WERFTLI

Reader Sprines, Chorrta

A-12-79-00

1. !

---

## Page 16

11 49=0427/701

10 00.

MESTORA! DUM BORI

Chieft rpL Groun

ATTENT

SUNJECT

Ciet, Operations Croup

owent the encurts search fus

er 210

006 99-02600:09 20. optenher 1970

i intensive

search of the filen and Indices ot

the pirectorate of murstic sas comated to information.

conserring

lowever, this nonce tas

inforcasion encerning l

revealed. tha. Collorina

алі? місі.

Mitch TuRe!).

:(11)

A.

In December 1966, 1

Hlatr.y

1S3Y IN

ol the united

and talked to

That taiL

110

annistones

10 retring to martians

auchoritien

snuggling

in Venoeucia viren aney suspected was laed in

rporations.

in Claterala

had frien

ignitino for

of

atp freight dugthenso the files

this Pirectorats

concain

was thren regarling this

indication that any acctos

MaLICE.

(U)

21

this meetard done badany oparacionat

interesa to tine. (U)

i.

Agency sar

in tilm.

daring doris

dide

chis

ininroge

commissioned dilicer with

the oss

the china-durarindin

---

## Page 17

14-00000

theater: In hugust/ot 1959;

GERAFLE

this agency.considered. using

nea Bource of information on revolutionary

activities in the Caribbean area particularty cula, hut

terminated lip constderacion

of his possible use in

itoher 1959 when it was deternined that his information

was of little value and it was suspected that he would

use

the proposed comoction with this agency to promote

his personol interests.

(S)

2) 1n

the Unfted

1073 wetballwas under irvestigation by

States

Treasury Departmone Bureau of Alechol,

Tobacco ind

firearing

and by the taited seaces customs

Servic.

for activitres::

relation to grossifle percenary

naivitres on:

Anaco to land to tre Honomas.

in this

connection. werner

during 1074

Coracted three retired old cuployers

in

an

attampt to involve them in a scheme

concerning

.. C.%.4?

actuales of an prognization salled the

Friends of Maco (POn) Which advocater Che, sccession of

the istand tion the commonwealth of the rihanas.

AlI

thres

individuals

reported their conteer sich werner one

sought quidande

from

tris

Hay it. dont oft

1971 they scre

evised to break

all

thos

On 27 June 1974 the

federal, Bureak of

investigition was

formally apprised

Warshto's overtures" te the three

retired cli

trployees.

(5)

3.

It..

har

HERBELL MI

p76-0029.

Thore

VERBENI.

that

seen

thie

determined that Mitchol! livingston

subjent

I request

nuater

is

no

indication mut ditclelt Livingston

evor been the subject of aa 2014 coatest

remaining

individuals

listed it retrence

nave ever been the subject of an ford or me sergest.

Hran:6347 114800701

ON:

Pilt;

201-2560.10

iN:

20l-250010

Pistribution:

011.7

" Addressee wraf.

• portiR v/rel.

1

I!T

---

## Page 18

OCC 79-08601

20 September, 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR Associate Deputy Direcion for Administration

neins Chiet, security Annlysia Group, Os

Associate Deputy Director for selence&

Technolouy

Associate Deputy Director for Operations

Attn:: IS4/DIP/1P/FIS.

Thru:

C/Reference Branch/ISS/1pc

FROM:

John k. Greancy

General Counsel

SUBJECT:

Request for Recurds Scarch

Robert John Morgan, gt al.

1 ..

The Department of Justice is currently changer

in an

investigation with stote and federal las enforcement

agencica concerning importation and distribution of mari-

juans and cocaine.

Attached 16

a copy of the 2e2arooepr's

verit reston by

ex ouer inor cuent with corgia or the

Sideers

investiga son.

?.

In order lo xespond to thé Departmont's roguest,

it would be appreciated it your offices could determine

there are any

records

on

the subjects

listed in the

attached

Ictler

from the justice Department.

the Keing

i. cruincy

Attachment

---

## Page 19

Sm.0os. 00.

218310

om the:-

Organized Crime

Strike Force

Richard 3. Russell Federal Bidg

Post Office Rox 543

Atlanta, Georgia

30303

September 177 1979

Mr.

John K. Greaner

Associate Genoral Counsel

Central

Intelligente Niney

sashington, D.C.

20505

Dear Mr. Greancy:

last

Monday:

Il was a plossure to meet with you and Clyde Carter

"explained

1o you it that tine, we are ergagen.:

inän

investivatior with state and federal lar

enforcinent

agencies concerning

importation and distribution of mari-

juana

irid

cocaine.

mirino the course of this investigation.

allegations

(unfounded,

I am

surel have been made that

certain of the

subjects of this

investigation are employis

ot

the Contral

intelligence agricy.

I believe it is nocessary to resolve as much in

advance of

an

indictment any problons which may

arise

should.any

ot

the

rubjects of the investigation

he involved

with the

cantral Intelligence Agency:

The following

indisiduals are mong the subjects

this

investigation:

Febris

John Hergon

-John Doncan

3/9/3G

425/24

11

g00:

JEM2S8199695 Ca59059

hales tilnore

11m5.

wister

TOn:

Micials

dustinguion fine

280/1/45

---

## Page 20

Ms. Greancy

Soptenbur 17, 1979

Flauo advise as soon as possible it indictment or

continued investigation of these individuns will create

problems for the Contral Intelligenco agency.

Sincerely.

icliai..

William L. McCulley

Spectal Attornoy

U. S: Dept. of Justice

CC :

Robert L. Kouche

Deputy

Asst.

Attorney General

Clininal Division

Cerara To

McGuire

Deputy

Organized Crime & Racioteering Section

Criminal Division

---

## Page 21

"CONFIDENCIAL"

rBI reports extracted from Werbell f1le (DCD/s

Orer report dated 6 August 1974 from Washington, FBI 3110

(C1-3) 62-108665• SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III,

INTERNAL SECRUITY - ABACO, NFUTRALITY MATTERS - ABACO.

OrBi report dated 22 July 1974 from Atlanta, Georgia, no m

Bureau 4110, Subjectr

MITCHELL LIVINGSION WERBELL, III.

---

## Page 22

CD- 11-2/78

31 January 1978

VENORASDUSS FOR: D90/TSS/TP/RIS

FROM

Ruth

tiliff

DCO/FIO/PAO

SUBJECT

House Select Committee on Assassinations:

(MISCA) Request COLC

77-5685/1)

REFERENCE

Your Memorandum, Same Subject, 28 December 1977

In response to referenced requost, I am forwarding

the following material from DCD files:

Dan Corswell

memorindum which may

relate to the individual you requested:

b.

Louis Posada - negative.

Cesario

Diosada - copies of all material in

DCO

files.

d.

Mitchell Livingston Herbell, Ill - fole

containing all DCD naterial.

1-12-79-091s on loan and should he returned

This file

to BCD

as

soon as possible.

PLEASE LAND CARRY

David Atlee Phillips - negative.

F.

Lucion Conein - one document.

(This document

aiso furnished in response to Concin's

request lP 2?-09051 under the Privacy Act.)

3.

h.

willian Stuckey a negative.

Id Butter

copies of all miterial in De

files.

E2 INDEE CL BY 336090

---

## Page 23

SURGECT: H03S0

Scicet

Request

roir

DCU-112/38 C

31 January 1973

Committee on Assassinationg (USCA)

79-5695749

Priscilla" Johnson MoNitian Den response to

her request (P 70-1801) under the Privacy Act.

Fill text and sanitized copies of all thig

material should be availáble fron IPS. Also

ättached are four intelligence information

reports which wöre not furnished in response

to the PA reguest:

j.

Richard Snyder

one

memorandum chich.may

relate to one individual in whom you are

interested.

k. Alexis Davison -- negative.

2.

Ihave made no attcnpt to sanitize this material.

I understand

that

lISCA staff members who

will be examining

those documents

are fully cleared, and will not be allowed

to remove any of this material from our Headquarters, make

nny coples of this material, or make any notes therefrom

that would reveal any maturial that is properly classified

and

deals with intelligchee

sources and methods.

Al1 of the

attached material is for your jotention except file A-12-70-00.

3.

Please direce further inquiries about this matter

to the undersigned an extension 3101.

Tuit Ellift

Ruth Eliiff

Atrachments

RELLIFF: HEC

Distribution

Orig

1

1

3

11

a/s

iddressee, s/atts

•olatts

C/State

1o/afts

Contro!

2

---

## Page 24

ince prom delet wandere

nantec ins

Mitilate fin telen it

• who stered in Triani -

Britis curry un. Meril be

And lansit corderi

3170299

a 7 out

81.61

nah lung.

CONFIDEHTIAL D920U0Z SEP TO STARF

CITE DOD/MIAMI 15595

TO: PRIORITY DED/HEADQUARTERS.

TO: OFFICE OF THE CHIEF (SPILMAND FROM HENNESSEY

WHINTEL

SUBJA FIFLE OFFICE ASSISTANCE TO DOC

RES: SPILMAN/MINWARING TELECON, & SEPTENDER 1975, SAME SUUURCE

IN RESPONSE TO A

TELEPHONE CALL FOON DEPUTY CHISEA

DCU,

23 AUGUST 1975,

NOR WALTER LLOYD,

WE MADE HOTEL RESERVATIONS IN CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA,

OGC, FOR THE NISHT OF 23 SUGUST.

The MENNI FiELD

OFFICE WAS HELD OPEN

THAT EVSNING FOR A MOSTLIS ATTENDED SY MR. LLOYD,

ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION.

JACK NewlESSEr, PODCHANE, MISO ATTENDED

ANO PROVIDED A SHORT GENERAL BRIEFINS ON DOD OPERATIONS. FOR THE M001

PARI»

THE MEETING CONSISTED OF A DISCUSSIOY 0F

OF MITCHELL L. HERSELL

THE PAST RELNTICUGHIS

1I1 WITH BRNERALD,

ESPACIALLY WITH DOD AS

REVEALTO

INE DOD

METORANDUM TO COC DATED & MARCH 1975°

3:1

THAT

SCO

DUTY OFFICER,

LLOYE

AND SBESESHENELY SY WALTER LLOYD,

SOULO VISIT MIAMI AGAIN ON S0 ALQUET IN COYNECTION S4TK

THE VERSELL CAST.

LLOYD DIO NOT TASK DOOMEANT TO GUY WAY. DUEZEE

THIS VISTE.

KOVEVER, 45 DID CHECK IN WITH TO LOCALLY BY TELEPYONG

UPON ARRIVAL IN THE MIAME ARSA.

HE CALLED IS ASAIN DUPINN THE EYSMENG

OF 3I ALSUST AFTER HIS

RETUR: FLIGHT TO SASYRIGION, D.C., AS A

COURTESY SINCE KE DID NOT HAVE THE TIME TO CONTACT US PRIOR TO MIS

DEPARIURE FROM MIAMI.

3.

MR. LLOYD AGAIN RETURNED TO MIAMI, TES TIME 0050030 $ 1995

JEI STAR

AIRCRAFTO EARLY ON THE

MORNIAO 3÷ 2 660181562.

HE COVIANTED

US THAT AFTERNOON

AT TGLEPHOHE TO REAGEST TOT 7 4220 0980 ME 7459

OFFICE SO TRAI

HE COULD DEPOSIT CLASSIFIED FIRRE TA OUR VAULT OVER

NIGHT®

APPEARED AT THE FIELD CARICE AO 1ISG 8009G AND 9906950

---

## Page 25

PAGE 2 DOD/MIAMI I3506 CONFIDENTIAL

US ON HIS TRAVEL OF THE DAY•

HE PLACED TWO. FOLDERS OF CLASSIFIED

MATERIAL IN OUR VAULT FOR THE NIGHT; AND RECLAIMED THEM ON THE

FOLLOWING MORNING, 3 SEPTEMBER IN ADDITION TO MAKING WORKING SPACE

AVAILABLE TO LLOYD FOR A COUPLE OF HOURS DURING THE MORNING OF 3

SEPTEMBER,

GE MADE CURSELVES AVAILABLE FOR ANY FURTIER ASSISTANCE

THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN REQUIRED THAT DAY®

HOWEVER NOTHING FURTHER

WAS PEQUESTED OF US.

THE LOCAL OS OFFICE PROVIDED AN ESCORT FOR

LLOYD'S RETURN COMMERCIAL FLIGHT TO WASHINGTON LATER THAT AFTERNOON.

LLOYD ADVISED US IN THE MEANTIME, MOWEVER, THAT THE LOCAL JUDGE

HANDLING THE VERBELL CASE ASKED FOR LLOYD TO APPEAR IN MIAMI AGAIY

DURING THE FOLLOWING WEEK, WHICH APPARENTLY BECAME UNHECESSARY SLUCE

WERBELL AND HIS CO-DEFENDANTS WERE AGQUITTED OF ALL CHARGES BY THE

JURY ON 3 SEPTEMBER.

AFTER RECEIVING TWO. OR THREE FELEPHONE CALLS FROM MR. SHEREE,

DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE, MIAMI»

ON 25 ADJUST, DURING WHICH HE ASXED

FOR BKHERALD INFORMATION HELD IN BIHERALD RENDQUARTERS FILES, US

SUGGESTED THAT HE CALL LLOYD DIRECILY AI MIS OGC OFFICE

WE BELIEVE

THAT THE ATTEMPTED USE OF COO/MIAMI AS A CHANNEL BY SHERES STEMNED

FROM THE SEEMINS (TO HIM EXPEDIENT NATURE OF SUCH AN ARRANGEMENT AS

MUCH AS FRON

BASIC MISUNDERSTAYDING OF BHERALD'S CHAIY OF CODAND

AND INFORMATION SLOW STRUCTURE.

'NEVERTHELESS, NO SUSSTANTIAL

DIFFICULTIES DEVELOPED DURING THE VISITS TO DOD/MIAMI 3Y LLOYD.

E2 IMPDET

CL. 3Y 011668

ÖNFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 26

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Matts b

Attached is all the material DCD has on

Herbel.

He has been the subject of several

conmunicat tons between DCD's FIO/PIC staff

and OGC and the FIO staff in the DDO:

Also attached 1s the microfilm records on

an a Arnold A. Bayard. I don't think he

is the Colonel Bayard referred to In the

memo, but it is hard to tell since sie don't

have any blo data on him.

4.51

(BATET

Tessad

101 Buic

---

## Page 27

OCC 16-0844

24 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, soG

Chief. DCD

Chief, LA Division

SUBJECT

Mitchell Livingaton Werbel til

1.1 was advised by the Justice Department on 23 February that

Werbel has been indicted and the trial is scheduled to begin on 29 March

in Mamt, Florida. The charges relate to importing and dictributing

quantities of marijuana. With Werbells propensity to raise his pant

affiliations with the Agency, we can anticipate probleis during this trial.

An additional problem Is presented because Werbel is defended by Edwin

Marger who was the defense attorney for John Hawk In the B-26 case in

Buffalo. New York In 1966. Te was Edwin Marger who subpoenaed the CiA

General Counsel as a defense witness.

2 .

The Justice Department has recelved information that a person:

either currently on formerly affillated with the ClA has been participating

in Werkel's meetings with his attorney. I would be appreciated if all-

addressces could reviey their holdings on Werbel and determine if there

is any calidity to any recent contaces with him. I would urge that instruc

tons be sent to Miami that no, repent no, contact with Werbel lare place

bateson now and the beginning of the trial.

3.

Ie would be helpful if each addressee could prepare a summary

of the various contacts Herbel has had with ClA in the past. Please chock

to see lf you have any information on a Colonel Bayard who was killed in

Atlanta, Georgia during the suiner of 1975

Bayard, reportoly an

assoclate of Werbel's, Had previous contacts with the Agency.

It would

Les appreciated lf your responses could be received by close of bustness

2. March.

den A. Groancy

lal Girderal Counsel

41.51g

---

## Page 28

PERLO N. BAYAND

Mi ror aree

In Tork Cali, Mane Tort.

B:319895,

Subsent la president sturi

3007715 N. Lo Bogarl Corpany, In'es

Tang ! ?

Minights, 199-7630

ax3: 17920-10070

4.54

---

## Page 29

F 92744

Si OCT 106l

TD::

(1 0o 8.1

INTERANT ICE NENCRANDI

Chie?, Coreace Dielaio. 00

i de 9r2er 2361

chier, mrageel securter Division, 09

642244

Sopo neder = 15-212

rion in di tetendiol, source se laccillauce latoralio.

Centrarre

resulte

De seccaian certe dire

fermale re

sarracord

incorato dei Marciolod or do e disceretto shitiscrona.

cloreil ros tote inforsott

-57;01

9 99 90

4,54

---

## Page 30

CENTRAL INTELLIGENGE AGENGY

i modonico

BAIA

92744

20: (2g 2000 -

Mento, 9. %

POCL RADO DE SAGOTE DATE ANO DRACE DO BOND CrIS

and se

5.3.73

558.

Stilan si trasmes

fiaschione ciao: D69dy

J2149

e rorn.a

• Sarri vota i

chies agostollo

---

## Page 31

Canteri

CONFIDENTIAL

J Harch 1976

SUBJECT

Niant

cleshall ltringaton Vertall. Il!

1.: Tha atteenod verordidue van preparad fet jolin deraney, 0oc,

so regiented a aurary of our records on ilechall. i.

Serbell

Itt.

carbell do to ba criol da arch J97s in riorius on a cunscu of legorelan

narcolles. do articipatus chat bartoli roy clais soce asiney conaectlen

buconso bo haa dore so in dio pase.

Franga also nakad about 100 comaci

¿lonu vach coloss Angard who 1o manctonal in paragraph l of che necechod

Scoranduto.

8. coo has enta: that chere be un roseant stel lastall di lanos

until che crisi de rivot.

involina an serenia altà shlo! tre droney zamot alture do le daereiries.

Tulah to catani tale laltaly che Non'o laforceloi icalost contact vidis

Ale:

Ciel, iornaric Colloctler Sivistou

Attachment:

./5

#lorribitlon:

Fashingten

= Ital

:2

1 - 1/887

72 ГРОСЯ CLE: 034353

4.5.3

CONFIOENTIAL

---

## Page 32

CONFIDENTIAL

2 March 1976

NICORATO FORS OffICE Ol Coneral Countel

ATTENTION

3 John le Groandy

VIA

• Depuy Director for Operations

SUBJPCT

§ Mitchull Ivlogaton Harbull Ill

' O66. 76-0344 dated 24 Fobruary 1976

A reviou of noo recordo lodicaton that Mitchull l Verball Til

was an occunional contact and sourco of this Nivfalon fron

24. July 1939g

when ho firoc intelated cho contact, unctl Karch 197l. It appeare from

our recordo that all of the contacts ore ar verball's volition and

thặc do no cloe as he viced do a pirticularly unful or rollable mource.

Herell di! provide inonlalted Inforcation which on toported by leg to

seven Loreden Intelligenco Inioratlor regorts.

To January 1970 beD

Icspondei con Frcelon of Information livuiry fron Unchell.

Copios of

the documnts zolonaad to hia ora available fron the obo/pIc.

2.

After misting ulch Verbell at hia oun raguage in uly 1059 the

Chial of the Hinal Plald Offico noted In alurorantin for the Record

that Iltzle crelence could be placed in anything Verball cata.

lictng

succueding contacto barbell provided information wilch seaulted in the

• folloung reportal

=, Photographs of Camarloca Harbor, Cuba (1965)

4. Dope and crma ruaning, joalnican Republle (1965)

C..

Planned coup in Custamla (1966)

•do l'olfelcal, acononte, military ultuatios in

Donlalcan Papublie (1900)

e. Plannel invasion of latel (1966)

f. Planned lovaston of laiti (1966)

8. Vonezuolan enquest for aries (1967)

E2 TPOES CL BY 010650

CONFIDEITIAL

1. 3-3

---

## Page 33

13-09-00

FEB 27 10473N*76

CONFIDENTIAL Z714SAZ FEB 16 STAFF

CITE DODA

13 334

TOS PRIORITY DCS/MIAMI

TALWAR ING FION ZEIMER

412-09-00

SUBJECIS MAICIELL LO VERBALL, 11I

HAS MIAMI FIELO OFFICE

At Lair

ANY CONTACT WITH VERBELL DUCTIO

CONTACT?

IPPDET CL BY 230552

---

## Page 34

Ten L: :H 80 76

CONFIDEN

T 1 A L 2716002 FEB 76 STAFF

CIlE DOD/MIAMI 13130

TO:

PRIORITY DCD,

ATTA!

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF CZEIMERD

SUlP,J:

MITCHELL LO WENDELL, 111

REF : DOD/

13834.

WE HAVE HAD NO RECENT

THE LAST CONTACT BY THIS

CONTACT WHATSOEVER WITK MiTCHELL VERBELL, ILI.

OFFICE

WAS A TELEPHONE CALL RECEIVED BY

ON S MARCH

197 AND DISCUSSED IN MIM-956-71.

COMFIDENT

4.52

---

## Page 35

12. 04-00

Fus 25:

3 3:

PA '75

CONFIDENT I A L CELOJEZ FES 76 STAFF

CITE DOO.

J139is

TOS PHIORITY DOD/MINDI

PION ZOINER

12.09.00

SLAUGETS NiTCHELL LO WABAL TrI

JUDICTED AND

JUST IOS DEPARIMEXT HAS ADVISED DOC THAT SUBJECT HAS ASEN

TRIAL WILL BEGIN

HO

0N.20 MARCK 1976.

THERE MUST. 3E

REPEAT NO DOD CONTACT WITH WORDELL EVON IF HE SHOULD AITEMPT

TO INITIATE THE CONTACT. EZ IMPOET CLOY 83S594

COHFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 36

CONFIBENTIAL

23 January 1976

MENDRANDUM FOR: DDO/PIC

ATTENTION

: lal Matter

SUBJELT

810-020 - Mitchell Livingston HerBell, Ill

D) records reflect

that subjoct has been in contact

the Agency since 1959.

The lost record of contact with

Subject was in March 1971.

The documents in DED's file which pertain to Subject

fit into the folloving categories:

CIA Office of Security nanecheck data

(US. File

Numbor 27086)

One blographle data sheet is attacied for

release to

Subject provided those portions

marked with brackets iro soloted fron the

relensed version.

c.

d.

Elgateen internal decuaants are attachou and

may be releasou to suuject provided those

portions narked with brackets are deleted

fron the rcloased versions. Deletions aro

based on exceptions (1) (0) (b), (j) (1) (d).

(J) (1) (0), (0) (1) (f) and (k) (1).

Actached are two newspaper arciclos which

pertain so subject and which nay be rolessed

DCD also has a docunent which reflects that

Subject provided Dci

with so black and white

photograpis taken of the Canarioca liarbor

aros ol üuba.:

UCD has neithor the originals

sor copies of these photographs although they

Roy be retriciable from yelL.

should Subject

request that these photographs be returned

His, we would asko overy effort to surface them.

E & IMPDET CL BY - 010650

4,51

---

## Page 37

GOMFIDENTIAL

SUJECT: P 76-023 - Mitchell Livingston VerSell, Ill

i.

A copy of this documont is altached and day

bo released to Subject provided those portions

marked with brackets aro deleted fron the

roleased version.

DCD also has two fR Division cables which

pertain to Sublect.:, One is from FR/Atlanta

(00349) to Diroctor, datod 11 July 1974.:

Those To 13t

The other Is to PR/New York (670514) from

NE/ARM/I, dated 17 March 1975.

One FBI report. (C1-3) 62-108665

DATE:

6. Augüst 1974

TO:

Director, CIA

FROM:

Director,

FBI

Washington, U.C.

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston Worbell, IlI

DCy has reference

to d report on the Dominicon

Republic which Subject provided DC! in soptember

1950.

however. doug not hive acopy of this

document.

Jobs notation in our fira Illicates tha

the document was sent to CCI/Wl/Dominican Desk.

DC records do not refloct the exact title.

only

that di 1s a roport on the Dominican Republic.

Six internal DCD documents which may not be

released to Subjoot.

Copies are ntrachod for

your information.

Denlal 1s basod on exonptions

(1) (1) (0). 65) (1) (d) and (s) (1).

DCD sugkusts that in ansvering subject's request

ho be informed that Agency rocords indleato that

he hillingly provided infornacion thee resulted

foreign intelligence

information roports.

Four of these reports recoivod advance tolotype

dissonination.

Ne suggest that Subjoet bo informos

that, the Agency is reluctant

to declassify and

celease the eleven documenes via the ball as such

an action would

put then in the public domain.

Should Subject insist on seeing the documents!

Dcu will considor santtizing and showing then

to hira in tho presence of an Agene) representative.

DCD also has one nocoranuun for the record which

concerng

an. OGC traco on Subject's

sons,

dated

18 Aprld 1975.

A copy of this document is attached

1, 5%

---

## Page 38

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: P 76-028 • Mitchell Livingston NerBell, IlI

for your information.

In licht of paragraph one

of OGC 75-4582, datod 10 Docomber 1975, can we

asaune that this lo not a record?

J.

for his

DCD suggests that a statement thanking

Subjoct

cooporation bo included in the Agency's response

to his

request.

JACKSO: R. HORTON

Chief, Vomostle Collection Division

Attachments:

As statod

Distribution:

Orts. 41.

Addressee

Control

DCD/Privacy

1. - OC/DCH

ro. -

---

## Page 39

1o.

34 FEB.1967

CENUKAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOORAPHIC DATA

RUDJSTO LAST. NANEE FIAST NAME -BIDOLE wANE

WERBELL,: Nigchell L.

ALIAOEO

.PULL NAME UF BA

24 1=25001

ncee inciutina da ent sanva, fUnG, RPDi fle)

COMPLETE AUDREAS:

DAT&'AND PLACE"UE MIRT

B Horch 1913-Philadclpbio, Pa

A. 0EX

D. CITIZENSNIP

Valel

:US

Preseuti

Towder Smringr, Gecrgte

Present

lnoder or organiangir

Te Conaee

Cotanunilim

Alcxto, Inc.

Cool Ranf ef Goorgin, Tne.

Werbell-Soutlt, Tric.

Pusder Serings, Ceoryia

Atlinte, Gcorgla

Atlenta, Georgin

AtIanta, Georgia

OlroNTiAuE=

EOUCATION

(higa araal, asiir ioluald burdi, otc.)

O) CONTINUIO

FENDHIO LATA ON PARENTE AND CHILDER

28 TR6 1557

al.sl 17009905-19

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SECRET

- 12-7200

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLI

( нан-с03-26)

Chlot, Domestic Collection Distsica

Suppore Branch/oss (Ryan/fers)

I2 January 1974:

Citel, Mant Fiold Offico

Mitchell-Lo Werbell, Ill

3. 055-44-74. Dated 8 Jonuary 19741

Thank you for reforent. Por the record, subjeck has mado wo

further effort to contact anjune in tile offles; nicilorly, va

plan no accepto to get in touch with dir.

Thus the moctor

roote there no thin writing.

Siould lo. call Disto, hovever,

ve will keep the navion contarced in cofoient to dra in donling

with tilm.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

B2 MIDIT CORY DIESSO.

---

## Page 41

Chief, Mani Flola coate

IN US C 2-12-79-60)

039-44-70)

• JaGuary 1974

aschall Lo verbell. U

Cis havo serined subject's 201 allo for additionni informalion

Subjuct sos of loresus to luds izaacy in 1009 nod vin granted a

ros in lucist ot dirt ycar.

Tata vas cascolled in Octobor lesg mes

its inforution prosa su bo or little value aud beenuno do vai:

suppocted no an usars suuncy tues lo proance his perional loterests.

H0 has ardsequentle

nicenptad lo gass limold off as an Agency

amployee.

He la charcorleca be es lilo no mascrupulous, n

woolordealer" ana prisotor di eraddlose schemy.

Tiro subjece:

lias boon mador inventiracion 1a 1e72 by bolo dho lurenu of Alcohol,

Tobacco sail trearre sud

the unisco states custong sorvico for

actluitics relattag as ponulblo corcenary activitles in Abaco. Istand

2.

It tho sunse should cuciace your office ngrin.

mugeest you accope morror ancicariton ho has to offer but rolá no

urthor comitaones aersing herroy contact.

Bonan so 1h0 appropriate loan ura 1s or excrosoly docotlul

charactory

3. Do trust cute secorned vall proviso you sata unalul

Thanic you for bringing hia

Lane to our detonann

JNCHSON M. MONTON

Corvices Aro Cemeazul) !

IP files

1l-2581D

---

## Page 42

12-17-00

Zichh Carca

22 nuy 23/8

LiFssteE, 5S

a ta connct ronico feDD

T-Hacuto

6-168762

whe, 0n

39 449171

ant C9c:

"oullon, rouder orir.

paarit;

:822:-728/1

n te2As

0-127900

.e1e, Lilo

1.?.^.

e in

deade

diiiid ti.

rcadi ia s.le:

roiton éian

•!a.;

oecati an

EETACUUAA DITEDSIEE

1ili

2018.

•Rculeron.

1:31.

22==i3

66 661.

a.."

".1:3

BCOOL C

Mam.a0tp Ci

MICT1.

i ci.unnr

2a cod pocatalo deacereden od co uatoend eloht@lrande5

¿. de su esa ta de muageco cutrdone da uita ralier, desia cauico

fiiotanast

07 -11:=1111

€::

12:D: 2idu

Strriets Msteach icanirol).

Т mcca.n ChG.d1 0 C.l

datf lori es pelenrprr

ait. li":

206N PAD

4.51

---

## Page 43

[0. 19.00

Chief, Porsonnel Security Diviolon, 0s

nuclor, bracetie contacte

lier, connees division vico

16 March 1911

Hit Contack

Sendence Caredy cano copace beggarding eig T

roconue Collecute nella-tarted contact the ca

Ince:e6

Arcis

stions portalning to tar

D/C

amanens

NLiclo01e0:

4.51

---

## Page 44

Cocc (Julin Creang)

F12 1200

ATIN

Director, Decentic Contact Service

mohn Greany (OCC)

Chief, Miant Field Office

10 March 1971

Mitchell Livingston Nechell, ut

On 9 Hor 71 we rocolved a lons dietance coll, precisibly fed ander

Surters, Georgo, from subfect, who is on old and unsavory contact of this

offico dating fron 1959. Vertell has bech involved in a variety of perue,

the litest of which concerned an abortive invacion of letti Shich Jola Crasny

(was very nuch coveerned about a year or so go.

Nerbell stated that the Departrent of helense had Just revolet lite

security cicarance on grounde of serboil's "Ertvolous behavior 1a diedaltian

coper. Werbell erated that he intenued to flent it to the Supreco Come, as

he id always kege us and other elecents of the us Guyerment inforaco.con

cerning develoments in the Multion gutter.

3. Werbell anted if thore was onything that no could do for hir in tha

way of interceding for ht with the Dog, and ve intoned hiu bluntly and in

no uncertaln tenor that be was strictly on la cing and he could do nothing

for hip. He then used if it would ba northbile to subpoenalirt Coraleg:

We inforned him that it was up to his attorney to unke such reconnendreichs.

Werbell sooned do rit tho resnage, and then offered to leep us givist

regarding an alleged fortliconing attent on laiti Walch 13 being sonored ly

Rolindo Isferrer, even though Unsferrer is currently incarcerated In i tolera!

orloony be cold ferbell that if he wished to goos iny intornation aloir ve

wonld accept it bus under no circurstances should he arteent to eltect ary

Infomation on vur behalf, He agreed that he sould oferate on tite tands and

cuad hè right be in touch with us again.

In viet of Werbell's record we felt that this latest contact should

bo a witter of record and that OCC should be Inforied of developpantat

fasted:s

4,51

SECRET

---

## Page 45

14-000n

CONTACTS/CIATI

FRos

JOH! GREAKEY,

OCG, WILL DE CONTIG TO CRANE COUSTI, 3. 90052000

CONSCION WITH THE TRIAL OF THE RIGHS IGCIVIRUALS ALLEGEOLY 11421

IS THE RONDING OF PORT-PLAPARICEO

NEW SUSJECT: GLYCHELL LIPLESTON MODEL OF ALONE 1S COMETE

IN A (WASHINGTON POSTS ARTICLE TODAY DU COreCTIC Are Attaa

RECEIPE OF GUNS CHIPPO F50M VIETVAR GUEOLGE COIN: A1W FORCE 29E2

MA. GREANEY

CONFIDENTIAD

ons.+.3 not

4.5%

---

## Page 46

(F12-79-001

Director, Domestle Contact Service

3 Karch 1967

NIN - 028- 67

Chief, Miant Flald Office

Michhell L. HerBell

7 122900

Think you will be intercated in the attached cllppings, which

Indicate chat all charses have boen dropped agalnet Werßeil

Ficase pass co John Greancy, Office of General Coundole

inclosureg

4,51

---

## Page 47

F-19-79-00

11am 1

metall

- Herald

24- March 1967

dated spirae 17 deli

picket s

Wence

4.51

---

## Page 48

CONFIDETTAC

-(F12-79.00

2h lkerch 2067

нD-0123

Director, Dogata Conlact Cervica

Cataf, Hidal Mold OffIce

19.202 1u topo A 1? 1900

1 10:006

Jao pot 10, caricad the coetary lant the decerol. charges

agolnet his had been drogal. la hava ent coatta thio. thio. 1o-8sr

Satend to rano our contaceo ult his 1ur tho tio: vile oe lebar.

2. Coaso nirião John prooney of tha crate et the corred courzol

of tala develorant und Elro un veterci rocamatono le di gou boy

Lane ao to our futura rulettona vith eratza)

4.51

6. :

Bisé, Pala 259.

---

## Page 49

CONFIDENTAL

£12-79-003

Pirector, Dosotto Contact Corvlos

Cules, Muont Mold Offloa

& Harch 1067

1002-060-611

row sta recall that son Gremey of the Gifice of General Crus

ir 15 1nal mak mral drya in copraction Gith tho Federal coco pecul

out or tha abort ava livasion ettoopt co Latti a taore tine 900.

Follong to Indietent berioth called un and Indientel that ho

vs to to Litar loved do "nosioiido TV Chmupo atccion Falris 16 atienco."

to calial Harm iccres mad roked hin to maitor local cover?, ond sa

overod the mi stations for a period uf roerl digit toroli did rot

areas on a pattoon hookan, lut Derry Merest titoned us shot to did.

agrear on a two-etito tunri cement on tha LoberV, Lios 1.11. tolecast

Pornoll cald to sould, It he coula,

"Bino a citizeo'o Dissat of

Dutcht Beonhover, John lerone, do au, weenco to dil no more ruen they

Turry rald else to didn't balleve thas tie ciation toox hip sints

fernoll me nio tierriered in "me htumta Conctitution", end

ve ero enelpolng a critpin: tros tha "consticution" of El Feb of 1a tatchi

ferivla 10 quoted concomie the Indicteent

4. Could you peaco pus the alova to John Greney. You niche Intora

Mia that tha colesalt co un unlesimated federal offlesel in theat

radoubicily refere to due cotons soone fo chose, vic sica ler cit had

a converation prior to callier uo.

10 cur convertedlose te have lud no further contact with koribli.

3 par

maclorres

do stated

1i51

COMSIRENTIAL

---

## Page 50

14-0000

E12-79-00

SECRET

SECRET 2214302 CATES: TACO/ERA'S 1714

+3.

FACTS/VASHINSTON

SPOUSCTS

ALLEGED ASGASSINAIIOS ATTEMPT

XIAEL 1710

01: 127200

TELCONG OF 21 FED AND 23 FEL 67

/ITCHELL VER BEEL CALLEGI

TYLSIRRONY TO MOVISE

SAT HE NAD RECZIVED ISO PRONE CALLS FION

FXPRECEING

CONSON OVER THE FACE THAT SO GUE HAD CONTAGISO NES POS DETAILE

COTSEORING INE ALLEGEO NOSESSIMASION ATTRAPT REFERNED TO IN

71.54

230.I 171G. COOTSTARLO TORT MILESS HE HEARD PRO: CURLODOY LNEOLATELY,

I ADILD TARE HIS INFORTATION TO THE GOVERNOR OF CALIFORHIA 0:

LE COMING AT 23 TiS C7O L CURENTLY HAVE AN ANNESS FOR GUAYES

TH CANNOT GOIVE, DOSELY HILLS; TELES 274-492203

1: 5 8 T3

Copy Fit To 67-51 (cal shay)

4.51

---

## Page 51

Chlof, Poroonnel Cocurity Wirelen, 00

Leontie come

A Chi of.

cavicon Divialun)

ves, Mitchell la

5127100

Coralention Cr

orc!

Plut

RETT

*..

matter ky phone ch25 cursary i

sirects 40

2198

1.k..le.

inclenure: de dualei be vis

tro tre ispich

whorne: pat

---

## Page 52

Lintin

- F-12-79.00

mary. 1201

Jealot to bay

and be dry sion crcroin contem to the foct this sia do had carinatel

Cry ohol that uness he learl ina cosme lincilately he rould so to te

(5 2i00

8=07-411

Cop. / all parts.

4, 51

---

## Page 53

975.27=

ATT

chiet, tersamel recurity Dirliton, os

Direster, Deleaule Contene Service

21 February 1067

7 12 7900

•cincinsetca

in us of creso rélattro of Miedlo ibot

Ialor"

me ghelnasd con er telatyng tron due ?lent riele Canee

Cht sant ua to tele.

alcun Barichen

se thio colico, rom dircusar3 dis

unt, wo culd the for vall. comict

ECCLea 72

ti.

3h:

Duelorure: Teletro Contrats Danni-iTis

dited 20 FeniLry 1337

Time)

4.51

---

## Page 54

Lame. Officas

of

Edwis .

Marge

P 76-028

Lo'S

Говоров: 2955.8694

alien Crit (499

Port 200

6088 Preme Soreige Piral

Richard I. Panci

Shoril 0. Clingies

Ionald S0. Malin

Names I Fairhad

Illas f. Hell (Then di Da)

December 30, 1975

Gene F. Wilson,

Information and Privacy Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Sir:

Reference is made to your letter of December 13th,

1975 concerning

our client, Mitchell Livingston

Worbell,. Ill and his request for information under

the Freedom of Information Act:

I am enclosing a notarized

statement providing you

with the address and place of birth of Mi. Worbell.

With regard to your last paragraph asking for clari-

as to which records he desires

scarched, we, of course, are not familiar with your

files or filing system.

Mr. WerBell spent sometime

ir the United States Army during World War II and

has traveled extensively since that time.

lle was

Cuba at the time of the Castro military

operation,

in the Dominican Republic during that military opera

tion and in Thailand and Viet Nan during the

Viet Nan

War. We fecl quite confident your office must have

extensive files and documentation concerning Mi. Hier-

Bell and this request for information is intended to

4."")

1:"

---

## Page 55

14-0000

Gene f. Wilson

December 30, 1975

Page Two

cover all information contained in the files of your agency.

Should any of the matter contained in your filos have

security clearance classification that would preclude

dissemination,

we would appreciate being notified that the

information exists.

We would appreciate your early attention to the foregoing.

very truly yours,

eid Kennedy C

RK: den

Enclosure (1)

4,49.

---

## Page 56

NEFIDAVIT

STATE OF GEORGIA:

SS

COUNTY OF FULTON:

1, MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III, after first being

duly sworn, do hereby, under oath, depose and say that my current

address is 4321 Macland Dallas Road, Powder Springs, Georgia,

37007. Further, that I das born on March 8, 1918, in Philadel-.

phia, Pennsylvania.

I further swear and affirm that I am the same MITCHELL

LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III, whose signature appears below and that

I am

the same

person tho is making the request for rolense of

information.

Sworn to and Subscribed before me, notary public, on the ElSe

day of

Recites 1015.

My conteston expires doi

119140709,2198.

bud, i li

---

## Page 57

-E 12-79-001

CHET

ELCHET 2IS378 CITE CONTACTS/MIAN 1719

CONTACIE/SASHINGTON

9T MS 1.

A 127700)

LE HAVE RECEIVED A NODE UGLUAL PHONE CALL FROM HITCHDI

VERDICE, POUREd SPINGS, EGGARA, OUTAILS OF BICH FOLLOWS

20 VERGOLL IS A SOLDIER G COSTUNE TYPE SNO MAS SAL: 19

OCCAGONAL CONTACT VITH INIC CENCE, OF HIS CEMVOLETIONA SISCENESSSE

WALS AA UACAVORY CHARETINO KUCH OF THE INFORGATION HE HAS

CURRICHUD MAS PROVO PAIRE DE FUNISHED COSPLETE DESAULE ON THE

ACROS MAITINY EVASION PLANA BAG PHONE CALL DAS RECEIVED UL

Janor Man of tee secre on lis Pellegarg, bastard That law

MISE MAO A TELEPHONE COLL ARU! ELEGRAY CR LOS ANGELES) NO ROCRESC

Трас силас3

Tin B-07-31

OF A CLOOS RELATIVE, PONCELY

•USOTASH OR DONO DR A RICELEST ALES, DETAIR TE DEET 1O DAYS.

PO GET LIPOLVEE DAAN INCILIAR TUCRIMIGHT CAUSE INTENINTIOIAL

---

## Page 58

stanis tendira

PAGE 2 CONTACTSAIMNL MID ETCRE

REPERCUSSIONO AND AGITO VEECEL FOR MOVICE. NER

BELL ALVISED GRAT

TO INFORN THE SUI IS 100 ANULLES, BUT AND LAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO.

SERBELL THEN ASKED SAD IS ME NULD SE GILLING TO TALIS KITH A

CEMBLE DE CA ANCONGREEN, SENDELA TOLD CTETHAT IF A

REPRESENTATIVE, GE GI: GUORGILD LMO GEABELL'S NASE SCULO BE

USED NO ENTREE.

A. CORE RECUE FOLIOS LINE SONITURNS GUT OF THE "LIASIAN STONES

BUT I DID ASET A COAT GEAR GIC LO ANGELES AT & LOCAL CONTACT'S

ACUSE IN 1900, 90: OUTAILE DE WICH AE CONTARNED IN CUA8SS5601

AND GARGO 599: OATHE 16 DEC UNO CHAY 1O A NOISRICUS HOODLUM

NAD AUNT LOSELY NOCK DEAN GAGICHED FOR SUCH PURPOSE.

5a.

PLIAGE MAOLE TRO BANCVS AN YOU SLE 911.

SECUTTI

1.31

---

## Page 59

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1991

CIA HISTORICAL RIVEN PROGZAM

MICSITO DO SITE 106

SUDJECTS

GEr:

nIr 677-05 CE 17 050.

ALCOTRIOTTY TO MURAN.

turce tant Parent deodo monte dontre tir Defencea

Tonion id Suiciie

CASTiN.

ginall 10.

1E 1? 67101019

wochiralie

en 10s3 Fo conte Flatt coord 180 617 de 18 DiC de tonale seraite

4-51

---

## Page 60

1, Contect Dirteton

Branch

-*.

dim of vialt to hitcholl Martal Irr

221i Dororte Cirelo

Coral Cables, Florida

Di the evening of 21 July 1959 I receirod a telphone call Mois subfeut,

atio lnd been given ny nen and eddress by other semia. of che lutell/race

caramity in connection with the ronnillity of his mosier along Into laroration

concerning the swored impending flight of Brilota to the us.

2. Warboll indiented tont he spent a mont mourt ne lils tine' in the

Datatem Ropiullo mnd hod extremly close asociativn vita lectera of lue errorio.

ment, end alco vita Conoral Joso Adrase. La clairil to have been a fomor amiter

of tha 033 vich service in Chino la WIt... Nurball la a saldienot-fortuna types

Uho rears a amocio, drive a Marcotes Dons, marto a not astructive blonda eas

Eriend, and So a BiA Spendor, la also valunteered that bo has a vito end air

childres living Is Coongin

3. Brabal told mo tint his polnciple poureo of lucon 1o in douling vira

Caba peros, and sald that ho to encintod in the malness with a forn lipto ot

Barber bonde

A. (Lipto aloo clatna to bava bosa a sender of 003 surine MVII, cervlas La/

4aa Rumania end Enster Duropcos arad.

Lipto sas bustly sigion in sakia, 1004

¿ laterco fiano callo to Menco lilty, quaterala CIty, sal loa Angalor durios a

Jart of this ties I was tith the groups

So varball ero s nas turoration me Dottuta'a plane, sules la braically

supposition, and furnished sone other marginal taforintion shic lo leing for

varied, althoug in sy opinica little credencs can to placel in anything ba buja.

It La bart to ovalzato what farball'o cotime are in connection alto ain don-

es furrin: latomation royeraing latlots to us, but it apperred thit he vas aleo

ettesting to fluh for intonation, throwing out a mabor or quartions coser ratas:

the illtor Terce lotel, reportedly recently to lure been purchaned by cuben

Interesto vith 9 alllion Cuban pesos. The penthouse reportedly bad been cusguitoig

redecoratod, uith bravy steel doors quaritur the entracs. This panthrune suite

has bees runorod to be lotista's intended hodquarters coce be arrives ta the 08.

All of thia bas bean sritten about la tha josaly columno 'at the local japers.

6. Inamuch as karball hna sy an and shone mabor, probably little ema

De done to prevent sin pottlas la touch uith sa trus susa to bies, bri contact

wait, not be britlaced by so enays by direction. tho bale purpose of eila to

1s for the scario

APPROVED FOR RELEAGE 1904

---

## Page 61

14-00000

Ole Allanta Zorma

Covers Dixie Like the Dew

Since 1883

ras M9. Coe, Chairengs 1439.1939--J090a Cos de. Chair

1÷37.7676

Jack Tarior, President

•

Jack Spaldong, idits:

22-A+**+*

APRIL 9, 197:

The Need for MARTOC

Wright, a labor nas, aza.s::

ne taith in der, Wright: 2t

nant thit he woold in? d

a rapid and peonomical tranip palson

system. The beca ato caces afi, con-

atraction proje

WHen MARTA

was cashlished it

tas apparent that the pie it would

bring was halancer fe tressendous

possibilities for pull rage und feart-

entedding. so a corpianice was estab

shed by the Gurer Assembly 8o

oversee MARTh

and

was called

ЗАКТОС.

The area

recds MAMOC as never borere.

Later contract time is ming up

i for MaRiTA and upon 115

corome

ides the tale of the la rent fare

The

CALAMAn Of SiARIA'S teard is Jag

sulA we're hopay tea:

ec

matching.

MARIN

anto problems delay::

sion of as rail site:.

with conutannatage!

other

ther is insure ste

b::

nican more rent.

more mondy

ciency of bcope d:

MaRl's hoard is ta".

the bushing of these??

board in?

end mitter is anare ca = :

dulies tere.

Which Domino Is Nex

1,51

---

## Page 62

F12. 78-00

18 April 1975

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Herbell

On 17 April 1975,

• DDO/FIO; Called DCD on

the green line to relay the tollowing OGC priority request.

Please check Agency records for:

a. Mitchell Werbell,

DPOB: 16 Novembor

1949: Atlanta, (corgia

b:

Godfrey derbell

DPOB: 21 June

1051i Atlanta, Georgia

These to have been charged with crimes..

alleied they work for CiA.

2.

After chocking DCD's records I found that: DCD

has had

contact with

Subject's father in the past:

DCD's

records reflic: no direct contact with the sons.

only mention

the sons

appears in

an article

published

27 December 1970,

Section-D,

and a cable

in The bastio con Poster March 1075 (Director 670514).

DDO/F10 was notified of the above by relephone. on

17 April 1975.

Distribuzion:

Orig.

.1

110000

1:-

OC/DCD

1.10

E : IMPORT CI. BY 010650

---

## Page 63

32-

& AN

809

OMF

te #: 839108890390

SECRET

IS A1101 MANIANS MONGAYON

STAFF

0

0

0198.100 0906

1917572

DIRECTOR

COMP: NE 10 INO: PILE IP/AM FRS, DODZ LSN/ID

clOPs LAIO

12-79700

670514

0 20

514 -n0/30

NEPUTATO PER

O i mas

#

TO: FR.

AJAJA FORRES Y

REF: FR

30427 lIN S1L2I4l Y

I• NO ADDITIONAL HOS TRACES ON

AND

CO. OTHER

TIRLEMONT,

THAN CONFIRMATION THAT IT LICENSED DEALER OF ARMS LOCATED IN BIRTHS-

BELGIUM AND THAT IT IMPORTED FROM NEW YORK TO BELGIUM A SILENT SUB-

MACHINE GUN WHICH LATER SHOWED UP IN SPAIN CONNECTED WITH BASQUE

ASSASSINATION. "'.

12. 7900

?.

MICHELL L. WERBELL:

1T {201-2599101 IS PARTNER OF DEFENSE

SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC. OF POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIAIA LICENSED

ARHS DEALER. HE BORN A A 1918, PHILADELPHIA, HAS HAS LENGEY

201 ON WERBELL WHO HAS LONG HISTORY POPPING UP IN AREAS AND JITUATIONS

WHERE CAN MAKE FEU FAST BUCKS- HE CHARAGTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS.

WHEELER-DEALER AND PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. ME OF OPERATIONAL

INTEREST IN MID-Z959 WHEN BECAME INVOLVED WITH ANTI-CASTRO PLOTTERS

IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND OFFERED PROVIDE AKHERALD WITH INFO ON

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES IN CARIBBEAN. HE GRANTED POA. IN AUGUST

1959 BUT THIS CANCELLED OCTOBER 1951 UNEN HIS INFO PROVED BE OF

DATE:

09:6:

EXT:

BEFALOUCRON BY GIARA TANI PAE ISSUING OFT. CE IS EROMMITEO

4. 3?

€ 2

IMPOET

C. BY:

---

## Page 64

OMF

0

• н 29 ку

SECRET

STAFF

CONG::

20

САТЯ

DIRECTOR

INFO: PALE

670514

anne PER

O conde

LITTLE VALUE AND IT SUSPECTED THAT HE USING BKHERALDA FUNDS TO

PROMOTE PERSONAL INTERESTS. EVER SINCE, BKHERALD. HAS BEEN DIS-

CLAIMING WERBELL UNO HAS REPEATEDLY ATTEMPTED PROMOTE SELF AS REP

OF LNBUZZ AND BKHERALD. SINCE MUCH OF BHERALD INFO ON WERBELL

ORIGINATES LNERGO, WE SUGGEST LNERGO REP/NEW YORK PERFORM TRACE

THROUGH HIS OFFICIAL CHANNEL. CABOVE INFO MAY NOT BE PASSED FORSIGN:

NATIONALS BECAUSE VERDELL WODUAL CITIZEN JY

ONLY TRACE ON MITCHELL WERBELL IV IS THAT HE ALSO INVOLVED

FATHER'S:

IN/9899938 ARMS BUSINESS TRADE. HE HAS HAD NO CONNECTION WITH

BKHERALD. y

4 FILE: 201-938287, EZ IMPDET.A

DATE:

ORIG:

WAIT.

17 MARCH 1925

NEVARN/I

* 4E 1332 her

NE/SO.

ENEDARN/I:

CNE/ARN.

FR/02..

RE RODUCTION BY UINEA PRAN INE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROP: TAD

SECRET

€ 2

IMPOET

CI. BY: 025268

---

## Page 65

109AL Seals.

1/1

SECRET

iR

STAFF

ADYANGECOr

ACTION WEL

1695

ACTION"'

FILE

4/P2

• T 256357

E14471

PAGE 01

TORI: 120552

JUL. 74.

COPS DO

F 12-79:00

IN 324569

ATER

Co349

SE CA E T 11ZZBEZ JUL YA STAFF

CITE FR/

00349

Jul

etcaron

T01 DIRECTOR,

RYDAT 150L00

GEORSE KENNY, FBI SPECIAL AGENT IN

HAS:

ADVISED BASE THAT HOWARD GIOSON HEAD OF

BASE CENTRAL

INVESTIGATINE AGENCY OFFICE IN WASHINGTON AND FORMER

SUBURDAN

APLZITA (COBE COUNTYS COF ADVISEO HIM BY YELEPHONE THAT.

WASKINOTON COFICE, SUELGAGED BY HIM TO DRUG ENFONCEMENT

AGELCY RELIG USED BY ENTERALD AS FLECTRONIE SURVETLLANCE IP..

GLOSON CLATUS OFFICE SU CHARGE BANERALD OFFICER WAGGE NANG:

GAROLED. ON PHONE!

KENNY BELIEVES MAME MAY BE CONCEN, OFFICE

IS LOCATED 4 OR 5 BLOCKS FROM WHITE HOUSE,

KENNY WILL ATIEND"

ODTALN ADORESS:

GUMEP CENTPAL INVESTIGAYIVE AGENCY IS ATLANTAN ME

FUELL, LOCAL GUE SUNDER AND FRIVATE EYE

REPORTED, HERSELL AND GIBSON CUERENTLY ME LATIOANDEN FOR DONNEW!

REASON. FBI AGENT KENNY STRIPS GIOSON PROBABLY CAPACLE C4620103

- BARAL STORY

MAIDELY AS MEANS GUPARRASS WORDELL.

1,38

---

## Page 66

ROUTING AND RECOND SHAN

•Stove Van Clenvo

FROM,

8O: 1orea designation, ouri nursip, 099

bwildingl

DATE

INiTIAiS

BICRIMO

I Ho

MAry

NTl:-78-74

2l June. 1074

(0:e00s 19, rt.r0 each elisanit

intom

206m023s Sin

Suppore Dranch/OsS

Arin: Grant

1.1111mn:

Reference and celiacon of oral

1e incri

it transcri

we decreal:

"Г!:

we has ge

cleared in: tides

this.

oly

wearides

4,37:

---

## Page 67

I had bear a runor that, I thought at the time that dion guys, these idliss

can't se dodia, shin again, but in the last meri 1 have picked up

a front dial ca

Ardurinthoro that i chink nerdi su be knom de thie location that involves che

Wornell grosp out of louder Springs. Are you funillar with that name? lio, 1'a

not.

2111 has been handling all of that and I just don's know anyching abou: 15.

Mr, Van Cleave. You can give me what information you have and I will pass ! o=

or do stat we can, but 8111 has becn handling that entirely and we work differe=:

accounts and l'm sorry to say that 1 am totally unfamillar with dt.l well, jet =e

Put de to you this way. Is there any way at all that you will be in touch ith

8111, no that I could get thie information so him by phone. ¡Well, he 18 up in.

Tennessee and we can get in touch with him, you. I could give him a call.) kel:

let se bure you a brlef synopalo so that you can at least pas that on to his.

And do the process, 1'11 have to sive you a bet of background on thie subject. :

• consider 1t usty Inportant, not frou the ataripoint of the face chae what these

people are insulved in now la starting to break, but 1 think lt do extremels

Ixportant that this location gole sonething in to Indicate that cheir contost less

them zara sinat in going on. Mitchell Worbel is i gun dealer basteally.

He has

what 1s called a farm out it louder Springo, Georgia, Basically, 1e 1s a piece

of property dich

3 lake and a firing

rungs and a big house and a gun shop bales

and a sault nich about three thousand Ingran subaachine guns and

other assorted

weapons, tre docbollbas been in and out af ill kinds of things.

He pops up ai:

over. de drives publicity and he loves to leply a relationaldo vich cha agency.

Bon, abone a year ago they were lavolved with sone people from estaln in an

ateempe to sot up a :secession of the Island of Aboco, at the time the Baha=as are

aranted their Independence. Now this vas a vory serious thing; there verd pearls

Includini, sabers of Parlinent Iron London that cane over here and they were deird

so hare a seal) army on Abaco aud the local settlore on Abaco vero all for cade

beraune they were moctly

wilde and the thing never got off the ground at that cir?.

Montee, 1r mis known, there were newpore articlen written about 1r. taria

listlinee sie prime Kindoins of the alumas sins Incended by this winde sciors si

hanielage in you could

iline of innithin that would bo asainst the best daries:

•t tir dS it die agency and averabaigo di could be mode idiodid echoed lete tree.

plane die deeped minor Glee dware Bid this thing pid tri "

tell tit

---

## Page 68

suddonly grown blager. And to be more tpecle short thing who 1 5o;

tha:; i

con tell you that 18 1o a lact that lant Tauroday nighs the now Ambansador croa

the Bahanas in bushingeon due Congressman indeer fruri, so one ride it a recepel:a

and they discussed this mattor with genve verdouonest. Ok, now, sherefore i ar

positive that within certain circles in Wachington this natter 1a being diseassa!

al this moment.

Now I also learned thut loot week the whole group of the norbeila

and their associates vere In Washington and 1'11 alve you the names that 1 k30% =1

for sure:

Miko Oliver, who do a key igure in thie, le represente several deany

Americans and Beitlahers who have long hud a drean of having their own island 2=1.

establishing their own country. Now this soundo like somethind right. out of chea?

fiction; however, de is a fact.. I have met Mike Oliver, And there are about sti

wealthy individuals, one of whom I think Ives In lic Bahamas, I belleve cro are

1n England, one of then I thiuk is Lord lollhaven do de a nonber of Parliazent.

He hao boen over to the form occacly and su Washiaston a for recko ate wich this.

About three wealthy luericans, oll older follows bits miny milliona. How chis

ching cane up once before ebout eight yeare ego alien they bought a boat and O11icr

went our into the Pacific nod laid claim to

the cocal roch in the Samoan Istands

think it was and alauted i flag on it and cotebliched the lice soverton state

0÷

Monerva, life Mngazine had a spread

on this. And Lual lasted fee about a veck

unt13 ln Plug of tanon, or cobebody, deuc tribal tiny dent.

land of

side of tapel

putting solde a plode of Nicaraguan soil nod diving 1e catra territortal righes

and I know they have toney. To make a long story short, Oliver is involves in

this.

Ile cone 1n, I undesstand, tro wools after con ashanas got thele independence

and

naid we've got

the money for the Abneo operacio

No. I have de on coca

source from an

infornant

in ther orcantation let a couch or so ago a l-real trust

cane up from Fort Louderdal In Che Middle of

the alpist and

loaded up a bunch ei

guns and explosives and took then lo fort Lauderdois. The non of che men ta

drove che truck was wally Gillis. le to a freclareer soldier co tortune type iri

awe son dideo profites

П...........,:.

a bout o you know, a poud riacd arulier, can so to she Bahamas or wherever.

supporely Chis material sid lot be houd More Sade tale Dol deleted is

he dig

involved down there sit a ball meet lon einittire bernetint ast?

do saree do pade le de delord all lad adopted no died dis out lin. is

---

## Page 69

3

Week was Me dasser, Middlet Gorbell, 1st, retirra Coloned Pobure Mayird, Us

Army who alse loves in tole need and da associnted with sorbell and i fellor

nased Chuck Hall who lo e rentaone of the Bahamts la Nassau, sho is & key par:

of clile operardon.

And I don't know who else but they were stoying for severa!

days nt the Gromerey Inn, Washfrigton. It is my inderstanding that they made

contact tiere with a former agent of your organization, with an offer of

substantlal amuncs of money. for lilm to recrule covert types, para-ntlitary:

types, technicians - in effeet, mercenaries. And I have reason to belleve cha:

he in reporting this information. I certainly lope so. So again, what I am

showing you as that I think stuff 1s coning into washington right fast. Now

Herbell has been known to drop Mr: Colby's name to me and to many other people

becaune he wingled - Werbell orlainally was in the oSS you know.

So he has a

lot of old fricnds who are Oss types in those days and l understand one of these

Old boy dad have dinner with Colly and berbell wausted life way into le a couple

of motha ago In Washlugton,, So, that i8 all he needs to start dropping nones

like mad. He does know some people in and former people. Now I understand thas

they, have also made contacts in Mamt recently with two companice cho manufacture

electronte equepmont and need the name of another former Agency man who is now

wIth the bfs In Washington. Agato, I have an informant in the organization whe

to about rely to broat with cliem and he has told me all this. He was in the

offlue when calls vere made to these people, talking about buying electronic

equtpoent which to Allopal und using the name of this former Agency nan in cha

DEA and Indicating that they would like to see the equipment, that lic'll probati

arrange to buy some, that type of thing. and l know for a fact that that indiadeas

knoes about this now and he lad good man aid in good standing with everybody.

But to summarie tile, the puint is this - the whole cling is idlotse scheme t;

a bunch of fools. It In fluanced by some wealthy idlots; you know, who have

money and are behind the dramus and these fools in other words, if sonione cana.

.e..

so clear de cario dared i do eatime pillere is i'

wouldn't touch de with a do foot pole because it taforally against the interests

or baris tendoromonre

inbotued... tron the sileltest look on it can cause a serious

diplomaste problem, von ind, regardless do los dras it ls, the face ls an

mondeene of chit door toolting dericans, toppling lints somes out, the lita:

salad that lo golie, to dr be in agency londonde lend chide thie diland efter

---

## Page 70

19 thal 1e?) Jes, dou see the Bahamas a 1 don't knon how Sant lar you are wait

thems but chey don't have an army or anything. They have a seall police force.

and they have some small pollce boats, little 30 foot jubs that run around the

Islande, and they are talking about establiching... • laren't they betil under

the Brttish protection for foruign troops?! I would certainly think so, but

there are no troops stationed there; you follow me? But what I am tryins to say

Lo the Implications of this thing which I know now are known in kasliniston by

people. When you have the Bahanion Ambassador, the new Ambassador, getting a

black American congressman from Georgia aside - you see these people calk a loey

that to another reason - anybody invulved with them is crazy. They have all kids

of these merconary types and they make. calls all over in Mtant and all over the

world and calk about their schemes and it has broken somewhere, you know, along

clie fine, probably in the Bahamas or Mtant, IWell do we know now what the essence

of the conversution was between the Ambassador and Young?!

I think te expresses

grave concern about this situation.

I chink some names sore given of the people.

You see they know who Herbell is because Pendling, in fact, one time made a very

tough speech about this type of thing with the Anerican Intervention in the affairs

of the Bahamas and the name Werbell is an international soldier of fortune. I

am concerned about one thing:

No. I I know It lan's going to get off the ground

now.: I knew it never would. It nighe have got off tie ground but che thing is

It's one of these things that could be so nessy and opponents, let's say people c

the other side would love something like this so they could capitalize on it fozeic -

you know, reports hittno as secret involversee of an hurrican incalligence agency

as artempts to establial a base in the salamn. i prod propagendatar could just.

have aficia day vith thio, So I have a feeling that undecs I am really crosy I.

chink people in your organtzation

are avare at this nosent of this thing surfacias

tn Washington:. And that is why 1 an calllug this office lecause I have slven

informison hore before on these peonde and I chlok that li's inpoetane cat le

somebody, says - Hey, have you ours heard anything sibile then and you fellows s2;

no, we haven'e heard tching - you know. Well yourseal in your oun mind that

this ts something thae will cone about to the very near future, this atterpt?)

No, I would have to way i luve i focling and the atrerpe wild not coce about anat

1 cour people do contam ron soore asking questone dad slug des tood the bosso

of these people and di the doreer agit up there does fooed cited tornation te

nantos die pinean: come do lit ogle deeded de rood blood rifle:

---

## Page 71

S. :

him

to recrude people for chise Wat's wiis they were in auctorion inse Arce

men fertoo sever up chra and he le pon tn the funerion of a private amvelace

but he, 1u a

Former agent of mer onentention. So ! just, want to bo

Buce

Cha:

fellows

down here, you know f seacong asks a question, or if they don'e

least you throw a report in indierting

that an Intoraine hots, nansey ce

none.

has siven you this inforension, because, chere is anothier factor

CoO

Werbell

ye Bee BIll knows about my calaesonship with me.

I was force

take verball to Argentina last year for a private client of alnere one ofte

Bonra of Directors thought helves the greatest International thing n the orld

and he top the biggest millstone have ever had around my neckie i was don

detents rings the ter sentes done mid tonel war won ellen p

Airst With saveslere and prost races

and, everybody ant droipine our hones

seeine drunk and hinting chate nore ble American secret agency he dea

after t lete and nearly sot picked up by the federal policed

were

of minest night add, so i socie

Ficiapton cleared down these

Butche

MoU

tate do internatand it get for corporay an one he

Vantes!

avolved with me in bushese and trelused to have angeling to do paperat

- you

know.

But he loves to ses drunking call re and brag. And he called

revere, months ago and cold no humasqworking wigh a group In boltyle and latele

I hope it to the government. decle cara on no, 1c's the other guyal and bee

well titch,

you re crazy. It sod

up to

any pesvate citteen of Prevace oranges

to sol anywhere in the worlu and see involved with people agatnst the goverpent.

it Just some rouble, that's all chere is tate.

And 1 forgot

about

called de the morning are the age end dair chure and

namedinhi

sourco there as it. colonel fare Pado andeas in turns nut frado wust one or sl

leaders of the atterpted conund he had slipped guas.cown there through

New Orleans, through as internetyreatned Millips, aud here deals - vel

frankly, Bondadre his reneral, Migo honzo re athe strong man of Bolita, and

"done think we have bad relations with them am fact, he is gettina clust

strong men down there and or is a known lace that he laces coumentst and tie

sends pre erupps en do buse doe so were done andon de doine doing

disorio dealia sense do toa

- ко інф. -

---

## Page 72

eles, round up errybode ond interrogate chea and say were ed you que the puns are

they find legram and Ingruns only come from berbell and then you have crate

Departmont you fund, saying wot do chimi, du you know

who, down here cryine to

overthrow our government. And since Prado, by the way was leader of tie progps

that leoptured Shay Dravarro (pli) than once again you get inite a good left-sing

Journalist can really weave a nice little story of that big had Agency down the:

doing chinge again, so he do like a mouquito in thint he docen't accomplish

anything bue he is very dangerous in my opinion to our relations. Bad enough ts,

nese up good things. (I Will pase thio on to B111.) Well tell lilm thie, that

I Was in Unshington last weck and let me eriphasize again that I would be the cos

surprised person in the world if senfor Officers at langley aren't aware as ot

the friday, of this situation and through the bashington surfactus there, you.

follow me? And really I like Bill und what i'm trying to do, l'n putting sysele

in lots position and this da bie area nne i know that reporte, bochuac & bave

talked to him before about them and lan nure that this has been made a untter

of recoril. And I Just think it would be nice for alll co be able to say yes, is

Informal has alven mo Inéormaldon - than information. locrunc It will all the

in.

You nighe mention too that witt the lage the months warholl has virgeed

Vesco in Conta leo und after chat violt i Vesco assoctate named Marino Came up

here

from Panaon aud stayed it Verball's." So he Is dealing now with Verco too and

atl of this de just coching bue bid.. And he de Implying, le tallo to neuspanes

people and writers and lie does Imply and une names that he ls not authorteed. co

use and chouldn't use. I know that he do not an afficial or unofftchat or abyerles

else connected with your Agency but this le the voy he la survaving. Perple are

dealing wlth him chinking that really he ls - there are enough problems happentra

is it is but all de need to oue good left sing newspaper son to got hold of thes

type, of thing and set le in Jack Anderson'o column or sone place like daas and

have

an official blast

from the governoont of the bahamas and then everybody 1n

- the world 1s

going en think that the seeney was bolded this and yoe canthe.

weck is going co be a iscelo bit late bocasso there nigie ivon be pous public

autoe headed there do a mone do do daggaged dar that tre elat the delete

2692003 08 ce say too, birded do 310-147:

---

## Page 73

14-0000

12-79-00

CU:

oat wrtk

E

51°94

CONFIOENTI

A L 1513452 929 P6 STAFF

CITE DCD/A1A"1

12194.

ECEA

AIIN:

SUad:

SUPPGAT ERAICHOSS GERAETD A 1E 2.0: 14

STRVER VAN CLEAVE, IETOLLIGENCE SUAGICEG, ITÕOR AELAITA,

GEURS1A

HEF : CRANI/IEINEOSDY TOLiGON E5 FLGMLAATO SAAK CUEdECT

l. DuRlio Tre AFTCirood of 21

1 1107 F2 000.1020 1

7659

TELEFIONE CALL FAOM AUSALCO MLLIIONOS

556.

FecraRisd Roan, D1a1e

FLORIDA, CA COATACT OF TEE MIANI FOLLG SFICE LC ANVISRO US

THAT AX AGRUAINTANCO OF HIS LN ATLATE, LOSGHOO STSNEN WEG CLEONEA

WANTED TO SPEAR MITU UA LA CONVOTICE MITH ITELLEL100 CETCRIE

CONCERNING LATIM ANERICA. DE TOLE GLEEDE PEAT WAÜ GLEAVE

SHCULD COUTACT CUR OFFICE LA ATLATIAS MOOVERA ALLIEGHO SE1O

TkAT

VAG CLEAVE DIDHOO MANT TO DEAL TTÀ DAGCRUITERS'', BATSEX

HE BANTED TO SPEAY WITH A CIA CEFIOER DIE TWE LGINASS GF INTEI-

LIGESCE COLLECIIONO", WE TOLO ALIAGGP TVAT PUS

JesFIcs

HAS TNE SANÖ GTATLAG AS INE GIATI FIELD MRICE, IND THAT VE SHOULS

URGE VAM CLEAVE TO CONTACE CLA RUGGEMAROETIl: 10

ALLIE35:

VOLIAN'T ACCEPT THIS RUSPCHOE D: OLE PEÄT AND LACISTED TRAT VE AT

LEADT MEAR CHAT MAA CLONVO MO GO SYO G1E0LYO DE NÜKEEN TO

ACCOPT À CALL FROH VAN CLEATE SO DAAT : BIULE TOLL UIS TE CONTICT

Oi.:8

FRPTECEHTATIYYO

1 34

---

## Page 74

4-00000

PAGE 2 OCDIRIAMI IZASA CONFIDENTIAL

2.: VAN CLEAVE CALLES US AT HIS EXPENDE SHOR ATLANTA ALCUT

FIVE MIÜUTES LATEHO WE ADVISED HIM AP INE CUTOST THAT ME.

SHOULD SPER% WITH

IN THE

→ PESIDENT OFFICE

AT HIS KAMLIEST CONVENIENCE. VE EXPLAINED TEAT OUE WORK FORCE

IS CIVICED GLCGRAPMICALLY RATIER THAL FLACTICALLY, AND THAT

SINCE MR LIVES 1A

HE MUST DEAL CITY THE

PROVICEC HIM WIIN THE TELEPRONG NUMERA FON THE

R0, 119

He INDICATES THAI NE WOULD CONTACT

Lite sane DaY, de

CALLED

TO ADVISE HIDE HAD CLEAVER INTENTION TO

CONTACT MI:®

HE LATER LEARNED FROM TOTH

AND VAN CLEAVE

THAT THE CONTACT WAS MADR.

30: NO PRESUMRO THAT HE HOLLE LAVE NO FURTHER CONTACT WITH

VAN CLEAVE.

FOREVER, ME NONE MISTAKEN, VAS CLEANG PLACER AT

LEAST THE MORE TELEPHONE CALES TO US FROM

EXPENSES, AGE ORE FIGM GARE COUNTY, FLOWEDO EACH TINGÜE

ADVISED MIM TO CALL

LATHER THAN US. HIS GASPOREE 04

THESE OCCASIONS MAS THAT MA ALAZASY HAD CA 10TEADE0 TO MIEF

ADVISEC CUT THAT ME INUTES TO REE LO AFOR TO ALSO

THE LOCAL GADE COLUTY CALL VAS MADE TO SOVISE DO THAG WAN

CLEAVS WAS LU MIANI IN THE COMPANY CE THE ENCEEDIES POLICE

OFFICIALS, MACH DE COULD CONNILE DO ME dO PASTES

TOLD HIM TIRT HE ECLLE REFONT TO ATLANTI.

4.16

---

## Page 75

14-00000

PAGE S OCCARIANS IASA CONSIDENTIAL

NO 140 SLEAVE TOLD US DUSTRO CUE DE THE ATOFENENTIONED

COUVESSATIONS THAT HE IS MCGLESTED WITH MICHELL WERE A A 127900

FONDER SPRINOS, GEORGIA, BAD INT NE LADRELS COPIESSENED.

TITO TAMING VENEILL TO ARGENTIL CLIN DIO LE LATE JAUGHY

19TA EY OFFICIOLS IN THE COCÁ COLA COMPANY, CONAL GARDEN

-A164

FLORIDA WITH SHICH VAN CLEAVE DIE CON INOS A COCSLLTING

CONIGIOT IN CORZECTION WITH COCA COLA'S SECUASTY SYSTER 18

•ANGRITE WAY CLOAVE ADVISED LO TAT LE ALVER AGAIN WOULD

KAVE ESYTHING TO DO WITH HERITE RECALSE THE LATTER MND ACTED

SO DADLY PURISE THIS TRIP. HE TOLD US THAT SPROLL HAG

COMPUTED TO ALGOATING CFICIALS TEAR ME CASERELL WAS SCE

HON CONNECIED WITH TAL CENTRAL LITALLIGCICE AURICY AND TH

A FIRST INNE LAGIS GITH PHILLO COLDY, ECIA VAN CLEANE TOLD

US TACT UNITERS NAO CEOCACHATAD TO SUON & DEGEZE TRAT YE

RETURALD TO THE US HITLOUT ENEOLLO COUG MEMORY IS A SIT

•FUZZY CA THE CONTENTO GE THIS DISCUSSION, ELT LE HECALL

50R11HO TO TRE AFFECT THAT FEEDLE COS LIVOLVED KOR TICK

ROHINA AND SORCE AND VAN GLIA!: TEN AFFANG THAT HOORAL DICKT

MILO ATLACE HITH TE MIDY TE GUY CITOIl.

€1.34

---

## Page 76

ALTHOUGH LE GAVE LOT GET ONE CLEAVS IS PERSON. ANCO

UPON OUR TELLERCHE CONVERSATICUS CITE FUE ME APPEARLO TO 23

AN INTALLIGEIT ID ACASONAELE LAGE dE ME SONAY TANT WO

CANNOT PROVIDE A TOÁE DETAILES ECSOUND OF OLA COUVERSATIONS.

WITH VAL CLEAVE, LUT AS WE MENTIONOE LE REFRENCED TELECO

WE DID ACT PAYS DOTOS CURING THE EOAVEAGATIDIC NOR MIDWE

FEÉL IT MECESCARY AT THE TING TO CRITE A NONORAUDUE FOR THE

MECCRO SINCE WE EELIEVES THAT 18.DAO A MORALLA GLADIT COMPLET

REFERRAL TO GROINE: DCD OFFICES

22 IMPOST CL PY 816S2

I DEATIAL

4.30

---

## Page 77

12-27.00

ATL- 32-7% 2

13 rebrinry 1974

Attn:

$ne st Franch 'nes!crint)

chiefl

Acinata F aident Office

Resuse Of C ntacta - 1th Stephen Von Cleave

it 12

1127900

1. Jock leancany, leal Mield Office, orled un 2l Jongary J97ly

frse Atlanta, Ceoralu.

Van Cleave and armested o ninht

nt to cntact hin casemina hig

rctivities ju Argentino.

At thot tire we sero in the praero of roules

the ottico to tho priment locatior so did not contnot lea Clcave tettl

25 January 197.

Ca that dinto

e colind

scentitlerosolves ind Dirtchy

exp ained the ronan dor the coi.

-089.

Do you kno

"ltch serbai?

and don this have anchism to do nith him?'

te and red

hin

rebels.

interent.

na he rented toht..

Van Crai

sincentra

09419

at 100 tiat arteren.

At" artis

Faita!:

1...17

at 1:e

?)e

*****

ro antriot

I ra

"portime:

logary?

".t:

19i07y en n3 Mition

tronationio de he cented to do aboratoly care any too matin be

"Favo

Te matual too has boon cresena

Some se this tricormation

c Tored In 00-16) 73/0135-74. Recree: Cl Internal so Cali.

Cap rebruary 107e de rocater a call fran don tarve nt hopra li

senter to report in detuit on a mcent trin to pakrant.

callernis, whore

ho had saposedly set vith police nifielala and discued the licorot

klaaming.

the siA, ite.

te told bia this min vory Interosting but not

CLA buniress®

Ho lan cluere collid again on 25 Perrure loT to Mll 1s 18 on a

visit do the s by are nuine roller gorieselo cad:

We premired this Intomation-for disseric:chon ns

ONS)'6. Ta view Di recent deloreats to fare renter mar should

be diascinated. To carplete your record oê cootseto, both reporto re

enclosed as Enclosures lio.'s 2 end 3 (riBruin the

they will be used for future reporting or cancelled)

E 2 CODET CL FI 010650

4.35

IC.

---

## Page 78

14-00000

ATI: 39-74

28 fabruang 197%

5:

In the montime the R l turphy sidnuing cany up to necuny hia

tro until 76 Februnry then he called to sey he had some dennitivo

Infomation of defintes intimat is CTA.: Much trid no costa not est

into hic office the pollo ing dey die lo a lock of transpirtitlon, ho

eata ho wild ere to nur title.

To reluctantly narese:

Tito the

marine it m fibrary he care do nur offsee onl predested in with tha

can le 1o neededs inter dies,

get in the trongartet due of muntle interent. bofer leaving

anta be one afould he cinhe be fired by Cosa coln on

1°9are9 9697110

Iritly, wist epossentiy happound (and this in lio etory)

690%

then it wig learned peg Marthy had been klinered.

Chief ishn Incan of the

Tolter Deniarant called

Von Glesse recurating hip asalcernese

No orked Kin CIrave 40

cone to hoodcuartern nul & so 11th Ansistant Chief tallire (s

bellere thin lu the correct nare) on the durghy kidnapping?

Van Cleave aprarently exprenoed cancern tr the

Acclatent chior that pecoicent robera on coco Coln Comany

residice, in the Atlinto ares night be turecta for tho cuca

Banapperty

c. Tho Assletant Chief agreed and vent along sith Von

Cleare potligina, by phone, Cole orticlala,

do Von Close hed not cleared this notion sith his

Iocodiate superviuor at the Cosa Colu Campany:

Apparently the phone colla vera cade very lete in tha

eveningg

P. Moon the lumby kidnemins vun resolved.

Ven Cleve

van colial ta be hia boss to accaint for hia nettons.

199 bo decinee of the mectiar, in

narently the not been eble to tuck to she colin und thie

I's aspect thie

may bo hts 19at ifflainl goti for the Come Colo Cryiny.

41,35

---

## Page 79

C!

28 februory 1974

To.

bino receiving the my februnts jons chil pron 089, e have

cheeks with.coorten Ayose ond-bob. perry.of the date rech ano

talltar with van Closta ond hin- operabloro

Perry shift red that

Van Clerve lad panced the interration containea in inclosuro lo. lo to

the Fire

Perry hod a few othor tithes to asy ebont ton Cleare that

probably do not need to be espouted in thio necoruedu.

Concerning the future,

ve intend to be band to ranch shen

Ven Cleovo callo, le nedecoars, tall to hir on the thome ofey tincg

to see if ho boto the daes: then 18 ala sulza aleply tell hia to kave

benn told to sluy out of thio busincuo.

1779

Faire aris

(an gentor)

E 2

• LINT CL BY OLGESO

4.35

---

## Page 80

ATTE

RE?:

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

7-12-1900

N0M-008-74

Chief, Domestle Colloction DiTtolon

Support Branch/O88 (Ryas/Ames)

Chlol: Mont Piold Office

fi Januory 1974

Witchell L. Worsell, TlI

058-ll-76, Dated & Jomuary 1974

Thank you for solorent. for the record, subject has made no

further offort to entoet enjong in thia office; alailorly, we

ples til Atecupta lo get in touch vich hin. Thus the matter

rests chare at this writlay.

Should he call again, however;

ve will keap the surtee contained in raterent in mind in dealing

vich blo.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

4.34

BY 01053

---

## Page 81

14-00000

ATTH

CLATTTEANAL WE 001Y

F-12-79-00

038-44-74

8. January 1074

Chief, Mamt Field Olfice

Mr.

Chief, Domostlo Collection Divlalon (Support Arach/038)

itchel! Lo Porbell, Ill

1.

so bavo reviemod subject's 201 tile for anditional information.

subjoot mu of intoront en thin Agoncy in 1999 and man Granted a

POA An hugust of that yoar.

The was cancolled In Octobor 1959 when

nto intormation proved to

be of little value and because

it uns

suspected us vas usdog Agency funds to prosota his parsonal intorests.

Ho has unbsoguently attoaptod to paus binsold off as an Agoncy

omployeo..

Is is charactorlood bi the filo on unscrupulous, a

"inosior dealer"

anil a pronozer of truralode schei.

Tho subject

han buor under invostigation in 1973 ly bols the Burucu so Alcohol,

Tobacco

and timorse and tho Unlted Srates Oustona Srvice I01

actlytilos rolat13g

so pussible norcenar acelvicios la Maco Island,

17790934

200

If the subject should contact gor citico pals,

auguest you accoot ohatevar intomation ra tas to difor

furthor coitmoods concorning Agency contact,

Subjoct 19 with

& 10-301 IE

charactor.

no sinut thia morandue will provido you aith unctul

inforcidon concoradog this

subject.

That you for bringiag h1a

for

ce: Lensess di. (Contril)

1º 71193

PILA: 11-23819

4.33

END INDET DI GY 010350

---

## Page 82

14-00000

famati

12-77.00

chiet

Ficid Ofrica

Directo:, Dameatio Cestret fervico (Cia)

17455446

Corsia

Li Jily I9T2

1-165762

1.

1: 17 2:1

tirei in

i!:

iole t.d te.

1257 10 101012:

1.411:1

t1'1"

Coli.

A-127900

tale-tore c0t-.i01ca 16

M: ca13

-"*°

rito

.i r

•cordo tra

1."1

..1.es.

...?.

3 1.23

tito ""...

AN?

100t06i0s

incid ita

. ....:

'-"!

malta pardosecondo ed contene diedeledda

.'.. in

w.o1.10.7

C:20h0/111

62:

14.32

---

## Page 83

SEOTET

OCC (John Greany):

F12. 18.00

MIM-056-73

1ộ March 1971

ATTN

Director®

Domestic Contact Seryice

John Greany (OCC)

Chief, Miant Field Office

Mitchell LIvingsten Herbell, JU.

On marIve received a long distance call, presusably from Powder

Springs, Georgle from subject, who 1e an old and unsavary contact of tile

Office dating Sroa 1959. Werbell has been Involved in a vartety of scrapes,

the latest of which concerned an abortive Invaston of Haits which John Greany

mao very much concerned about a year or so ago.

Werbell stoted that the Department of Defense had Just revoked his

security clearance on grounde of Werbell'a "frivolona behavior" in the Maltian

caper. verbald stated that he intended to alight it to the Supreme Court, ag

ho had always kept us and other olecente of the US Governent inforbed con

cerning dovelopmonte in the lattian natter.

9. Herboll naked if there was onything that we could do for his in the

way of interceding for hia with the DOD, and ve inforned hin liuntly and In

no uncertain torna that l was strictly on his ors, and wa could do nothing

He then noked

tê 11 would bo worthuhile to subpoeno

be Inforned him that it wad up to his attomay to make such réconsendations.

Herbell seened to get the bessage, and then utfered to keep un auvised

regerding no alleged forthconing attempt on Haiti which is being afonsored. by

Rolando Manferrer, even though Masferrer ls curpently incarcerated in a fedoral

fold. Norbell that if be wiabed to pass any ioforation along we

would accept it but under no circuastances should he attenyt to elleit any ,

Informntion on our behalf'. lle agreed that he would operate on this basio and

said he aight be in touch with us again.

In view of Herb-ll's record we felt that this Latest contact abould

be a matter of record and that Of should be informod of derelorante.

1ý. 3!

---

## Page 84

Mitch WerBell: Gunsnith to the 'Right' Si

Hy Horzer Willinmg

Tie pplloeseng is ercprglen ly tee.

939090900 Aroild mdenire.

D Weanwo t

MRINENASS

•8'AfПA.

tad toen 81e

Priss. Thry.

sasf:

eal and hanrlanne in thetrali.

allego taalnin, and they lonked

1 11,0 1u189, lealy sodtine.Huat

•cainusflade duil and eir.

10eie posled in carb hand, 1hir

liad on 8!" 'aeaso sun" tucdor!

jicdodinlio 8.ooda-ap'a d prodt ládd coldor aefitán

ap:pes s1flo under lise other.

Hehind thiem, piopellina himoell sic.

96d648 01101 1191110.0180 8 11. drarin

Ahee,

Muobol Bolsinantom Borlie18 191

t liente 1og Aguglnso Cin insul sire ef fixe-

qune miltant anthommsnid aivd ont

al dio natron a lendine descloners ul

muilary brapons and acresutits.

Mitch IV and dirolt chatted lichtly

otuul the ararine they' wete carrying.

Thelr tather.

remperarl; iminabiliaed

uy e traciureel hegl, punciured the cun.

iereation

miils truef husare d! isforina.

ton aboai the meupes sudr, one of ins

mati shaue produrie

-T'his

neajosn

harl Aifledt 1lae l'8" in sir months."" l.+

Aaid priudl!.

"Thuse V'C' lock only 17

souhdle

p'r? Aoll

Tuenlysesen contg

apiere they' enol l'nele, sam. That'e 1he

ennaitral cual elterinenres the driny's

eeiÄnnnn"

Sezsrnoe bird,

Poup?

iato de dur)

laredl gut.pend/pon09e9 dellee Pooined 11001a

iiee wesbrate srites the butleg ohettorer

Eola al nes ajterterditilo 111ad dogsre 20t.

lue ponnary ga: woid eon 1he derlell fir.

tie sallde;

Phega M0ntole loogan Dirind o

prerel a aratidaer diniy 49. The dun

'ecioed lndurd sanud thies sporere eedirraed

ereao slie liuldle and trectogs. te then

s:aral un a stranige. serroibly rertan.

.:: *l Maniliun, an ineramo Sleie: 11.

egw0ped wish a fash and muz:le sur-

eusor." and becan liring il. Thr nulz.

: = Sareli moser. and the only sound.

wao n meiallr chick, followed by thie

s:r ol the bullet and lhe pop ar ii hit

• Paroit.

the olleil uarecre alarnai coolina.

rmmlait shrg lound dlach pui irm

c.a on tall autdniatic and ohippind oi!

ci rhite inunds in boe srrond. Geol!

•utaded the sanie kind of demonsira.

". with ihe grease cun. a siandard

oir •u'machine cun and the aripi

ooe atd Meshell calls the 30121

= máe à le alan rquppod anth a sub.

• P.a11:?

ms lie say hack to the housr, Wer.

•in"'

mipdamred shs the suparessor..

rengusls called a siloneor, as socure.

: • 1ur ari Arreooary, "ll lndre the

ioala nofl rrsduens lhigo diina

ird lain.

meg9l mn ni.

tis:

nip weapons alven to him by triendly

foreee in

Vietnam, he-sald, and they

were chluped lo the stateg for display

in military museums:

Sint surprisingly,

Werßell has siften

beon ralled an operalive of

the

Ceniral Intelligrince Axenry, a charge

that angore him snly strein le ls fey.

ejart tun ichemently. It ls not that

he has ansthina againse the ClA. He

just doesn'l, he sass, happen to be

une af its boxe. llis-paramilltary sork.

uhich consinta, of adulsine and some.

1iTIFg

dircelly assinting foreisn sov-

e1 nino:ni9,- le dene in the

empiny.

of

whal he cnlle an inlependent group:

sall-ttitontioned,

uatrietie

•arneri.

ronsi""

Theo-

Wireh soxiety?, The Min

Uirmien? d

liuncl of farricht Texas

inillionares? Werßell worit s8y. other

than to insist that ls. is not the CIA.

1l hardly matters, frip accordina ip

Werksell. it.is all in the sersice not onls.

of trerisom and antirrmmunism but

ul the LS.igovernient: he does not

sunply os adsise ur ficht for regimes

noi bearine lhe Stale Department-sea

of araroval a hoabe perrontage of his

merchandise gorg directly' to the is

Eovernment, which distrihutes it to.its

own forceg that need silent or exolle

Hrapuns.

Thẹ

,halance

sold

trp

friendly

gorernmenis,.elthig dirertly

on thrmuch the sord affierin of the "in-

dlepenent grous" Hlo aays he does mit

sll in individluala, net even lf they're

certifiodd antleomtnunisls,

H'orbell-takes polns.de polnd out that

1ie te no enelinary arme hroker. Thalls.

tooo se mist one af thare ahadory tiguren

wiho arell wraguns in hith siles at exor.

litamt brices ur nho lake possession of

contrabaad slupmenes on the hich sras.

"Neve alnass adhered to a basic pol.

iry: There is only, one friend of the

Lnipl States in a riren ara, and ve

deal onig with that friend."

I'hat does. Werßell peddlc. A range

of firearms from machine cuns to

desk.sired cannons, from the meanesi-

looking arapons to innorent lonking

INARSOT

sticks that fire a bullet or

esen a small rockce: an arras of lech.

niques - "sistems" te calls them

that will help an American soldier. nr a

forrion army:hold off insurgent forres,

and orcasionalls. his personal serviees.

Theep services, present lorßell at

lsia mast sliadons Sersing as a com.

hatant in the armedd forees of a foreign

aationts.againse.C.s.law. and W'erBell

as anderstandably: rrliciant lo sdmit

having done so. He describes himself

• in sach jerms as "paramilitary" ang

"adsiser." but arquiintances. susge

no has loen on the thick of the fichtlog

a number ni limes. Hle may even hare

Ie !)::;

a.rg

FiRvire:

M1:sr11

frü: fyrage iegest

#21, b):

brnaith:

D:i

Barn?.

nuter.

m.71-1e1

the tye dt 300 mr

'Tls. buls

SCUTN

subra:iine

Ls0d

larar

19.916.

30! is

RISKiY

misctine

k1101

heliereory

APTT:!

n!:

thirs

ilcidi

1508

---

## Page 85

14-00000

In nicombat sitiarari, so for an prae

¡ical purposes the fring 1e soundies.

Drien, ibe loadest noise is shen the

builet bits home. If it hits a human. it'

makes a peculiar; thunking. sound, like

tutting a watermelon."

'Compulsise Warrior'

JITCH VERNELL wunds rom

plerely masterof foes. whea

isikajabout firearma, and denit, and

with reason lie has boon in the mill.

iary liarduar business fop grars. and

he has enher heard or princelor

boin-lhe.thunking.aeicrmelon-round

many times- in balin America ard?

sanheart alria, in the Us..

intero and an a paramilitary "adviser"'.

He la a compulsive warrior, an armed.

crusader lichting

romuniят."

HerBell te not alone In this occupa.

lion, bul ho practices it in a unique

manner. Must aoldiers. of fortune are

nolhing else, and they lise frum one

title mar lo the next, brawling and

Moonine tacir day throuch a touch and

Sinancially unrewarding life.

¡verBell, dis contrasi, is a husinerg

man who dabbles in military adven.

sut nnly when and as far as it suits

ana. Il. combat didat sitillare him. be

amulent parabe of ll. die business is

nader He serializes in the seapons

techniques

easy, which mas de muchly delard

as the fareful suppression' of coups

¿erne, rebellions and the like.

The Way

K'erBell

operates,

this

mitans defending established regimes.

parne of them dictatorships, against

armed resolt. This political posture

tic? ons does not irouble HerBell, it

aleased dim. "I have no objection lo

driatorship if it serves the interests ol

une rountro." he ears. Particularly il

ise lorra do those interests is from

arie iott: "Communism has no place in

the Miesiern Hemisphereor la

Ar.Y

simisitiere. l am coally opposal. lo 18.

'and to the ipread of ideological gerina

and tith inat it bringa".

and again.

W'erBell's name

nowa. The first labut nt

Corporate Setup

TIE KIEADQUARTERS

for

work. the former Dobby estate, is

or Highwos: 360 just outside of Pow-

de» Springs in a ramore seclion ol

firm called Environmental Industries,

Inc.-a nem euphemism for a compony

dedicated to killing people: Ensiron-

Marched berBed droes the pare no his priener ar.

shope he rashes spericlized dichr

somed in Grort ts. Army end unhe mantristr

hanimlied by some of the Fast's mast

prominent investment houses; he is its

He do also persident.

called Miliars Armamenta C'n, Inc;

and brause he is in Inader sprinas

Maliary Armaments is them, conie

hind Environmental Industrier, Her

Bell say's, is "a third shadow of which

El. is a subsidiar " another tantalia-

ing hint of the cia.)

Military: Armaments may well' be a

Amprican enterprise. Nobody

ol designine special púrpose weapons

on such a scale. A cood deal of its de

WerBell sis children and put up with

his rather unusual sas of life. (When

he det fur she. far diase in toil he aust.

he'd be xine tor'a fear or moir, and

he was.)

A Military Profile

MITCHELL WERBELL iS a shorT.

quip. and quite sensible until he begins

ralking about communism or other so

cial Issues. Me has the fare and bear.

ing ofia t'russian officer, an image li

cultivater by scarind a musiache one

under federal lirerse: Silencers for ex-

ample, are outland bp the Sational.

Firams Arl, along with saved-oft

Morgune, submachine, runs and other

dresses in military clothing of indeter

minate prisin, and he embellisties the

Image by salking in slightly stopint

his supprestors,

Weakell must jay a sperlal tax al $500

phrase There is nithing phony in

this. Workell has a strong netachmont

1o. snapons and to surfare, anit tir far

Deperiment. The T-men also check pe.

riodicall lo spe that: bli

collection: of firearms over. 200 indi

vidual pieces properly, registered:

Apparenuly the market for suppresors.

is not very large because, acrording lo

HerBell, his firm is the only one au-

Idcas and scles tieg foster on in in.

grained part of his personality.

He comes.hs: both his-milliarishi ard

Imperial army, even. though he was

tricky situction." says Mitch. "Ile was

a citiren of both the. U.S, and Gussia

• VerBell will not disgusts the salesor. In those dais you could do thai."

profits of Slilitary Armaments except

to say that, after two years of exten.

sive research and development (result.

the Bolsheviks: but before the rolays:

of the crarist regime he wisely secure!!

ing in "a das loss of. a half million dol

lars"), the company is now doing very

: well. le hag about 1a employees, inelud.

ing four machinists who work under

the direction of. Gordon ingram, who

has charge of the desion operation and;

whose name is on the Sodes Il subms-

mind -Mitib demon.

forres Bationed In the Us. He ived

In this muniry for the rest of his life.

putting his carls medical trainina lu

use in cancer research.

legacy

from

father la Mitrh's

barely

disguised arseniratic sympa.

ent forms around she corld.

Brude kins in his

The heroes were enly comperor, shila

Bertell recocered from e leg injury.

verting in a deparement sire, Soon

do was bead of the department. and

in the adan, Herbed matel out

his

mai publie totalone firm

"i alread

teen driftine into interracional PR.

HerBell says.

mund, 1 karl tremendous contacts is

curope, and l moved into

Far

Lass, 100." Moss much me this toving

in was millary. Herbell wont soy,

aut his busine i look on more

ntid

mure of what he calis a genpointoni"

Gaver,

Reture

Roper lie was debbling in

Pict poet wett

1n

so were

muting chasely with Matista." Die audia

ah a stan, "ur dunctlon was do krog

Bausea do poor. milliond the 11.5.

Marathas puint."

From all this, even Herbell doesn't

anow coactly lose, cano a passionalie

camera do: conniem. of docided

in devote winterer linie i sull in

aitiridios."

he 33y5.

"Al firs: i: mas some ni a husby. but

then is beerie my main drive in life.

Then In tom now here he kes.

cas al the arional an his office indils

-' ords me a damned good living.

ax the livine is not winy i do it."

The Hear! of le

N10es. Willie anticommuntam was

s ab cans, albert a saying holda.

Herbed merelaid the Dobbs patiste.

tope

And

train

experimenting with

ons re bei red had the besi chance el

communias tanro.ces

in

so sma?, inderreicioped nollone di

renations!

who had hoth the marry and the cuts

so belo preserve them.

His first major paramblears opera

Tirin 41a. in 18169 Thosandona

hiepublic

during

iss revolt.

1lr

N:39, of

course, on Me side of the googgnment.

shed as dendina old allegedly Com.

munis: insuraenis: the Uniter Stairs

was on lie shilo, som. Herischi wound up

in the mids of the Miahtina. lie woar

the

second

Dominican

government

man to reach the Crama River, sche

af the major battle.

Elicworth Bunker, then 8.5. ambas

sador to the coreanization of American

Mates, becanie bisily coerrised over

weis en the come (leebell opposed

= cessallon 1i hostilities and escablis

runilion

dovernment.

12:1k1'г

irving

Herball see of the muntry, bus molle.

ind came of l. Herbell's "usdependent

Trian

millionaires or

Merleil sas already active in the

anti-Casiry morenient, aid he brought

to i a scare of dash and discipline that

the rector. bickering bunch of Cahar

exiles hod seldom seen. Perhaps his

major ant Castro exploit was a aper.

bose foray Inio Carnarioea, on Cuba's

sOutherE coas.

The mission was to

drip a swinnier. appamally a pi, alf.

shure, and lo pick up the deraily of an

evilo leader. The boat, Alains the Cur.

iralerate

ling

on the racho antenna.

foundered in high seas, and the rains

Pasty was raplured The Cabans, the

Biory 2005, dil no: Ends astral do mala

o! The bond Worked, and he no his

pale wound up serine a castro loat

in spiriting come ld anti Caniralien

nui of the enunier hefore they

thems.

fully disar incrim

подостов

10 an

rakine

merit al

pericon entracts, il

Dens, dà

snagrial alegras o

Armamenis wid sensuma::

BUreS. Accurdina 'o dals eu

the firma.

the

f9254m

shurier. Ushtog and copatie.

the market.

They are alor,

Braly into a disgaina 519

plete mith supprran

Besidens lo1863si134

20095415908 41719 893

merit wilh such dranity ann

Papers die

a certain prulust that ls ani:

propir caiss therag

MY.

Breat businmas. 1 807-9 29 2711

manhatants

house ripplyin: Eduer to tre

Their 1s his orientina

Bires.

Berkell in lis

Communis 955060: 11 10 8

muat Do won ond scaron a

10.1011! 18.

Contrary Mr cynical opinte

Springe tral nol named l0

Herbell and his enterarise

In face, Blajo as Micas: $8:78

corDually as pornible. iho t

wrl alocked. M ie practieally

cinal moe fur erraceria: er.

D9e5, Arom Bine to lince: or

frelins, in Powder Sprinas. 19

clarrg, "'ee bell wiu! le it?

tell ra i'm aruared lo pae.

property if they don't ice th

Meo comes But Bailes ferr

hoarrer. There in a steals

trar

sell ao Aniereans.

the shoo: he badet brro by

months.

to said,

*7118 1his

#N 850140450919019

jaceneel de newle plain

on bringing 19e 492-579 1011

---

## Page 86

hrough a

touch and

escala urges shahil.

by contrari, 188

basiness

cabbies

adita-

suits,

didat

him, be

11г:

not using their in

alizeg in the

AND EELA

el trupt

echelliane and the dire.

uneralre,

detesting emblamed cogindee.

Thie

just ure

nut

troubie. HerBell, it

objectior 10

miship if je semes the interests of

De

Particularly 1l

areat 1o thom. anien

999 1#

from

Communian has no plare.in

under federal beense: Silencers, for ex-

vestiges of Prohibition

pes.

VerBell will nor discuse the sales

set Bell's

7a00

The fusi

iS UP 01

Heirs

Scat-

strary on

be saleriest in an abortive invo.

rol stand in imm, and Dira Bill diss

wit?

193m)039.

12391090d. alleg thee

it charges arained him were drupped

nie me othere arresied were brought

• iriol Asked by a friend for go e%.

HerBell replied Jauntily.

her you work -for the

company.

sake care of you. 111 never best

SO ET

Ra 11119

about it.

50 lar ho

-" he rainlains,

as: December. HerBell kil' 1hr

i: sace of The Atlanta Constitutios

in a abipment lof captured enemy

egons sound from Virinam was'de.

• Is al Helin Air Forre Base, 'Vler.

" national eriumnin irederturis

we Vie: least on dia frienda meant to

intes Eriubs in the U.5 Nestell

mally conies that. They sege aovie.

a hese name is on the Model: 11 subma-

That, young Mitch

"Collage Industry'

shine ship-lab atlated to 170

mula hiruse on the estate, which

Bell likies to call "the farri" WerBell's

'ctire is next door to the sbup. Ils walle

are to loaded with weapons that te ls a

wonder they do not collapse. There are

knives and spear suns and pistols and

corerr'0! Lien, some purchased, some

wus: in combal, sure presentedity the

aperiause secipienis of Merßell's

Wes Beil, who has.a.bense.of humor.

calls. his enterprise a "cotlage. indus

try and likens hlinscit to "s country

drier.,. ean fall cut of the living

ares azniars right dinin lo ile oifice."

Conairs Is Uhe domain ol his Germar-

cultivated by wearine a rusiara: 2i5

dresses In bulltary clothing of indeter

minate origin. and he embeilishes the

imore by talking in slichr clipped

to weapons and to garlare, and he has

been around them so long that the

ideas and styles they foster are an ir

grained part of his personality.

He comes by brith his militatin: are!

disneally. His

father was an offer in the Russian

min American dictatanfies.

Fidel lock over in liva. we tere

Forting closely writh Inisia. tie addle

mia a pria, Our function as to leep

Batta in poser, altar the cs.

goverament was lostir: formally on

Pided at that point."

From all this, even Wirraci! dain't

len excelly boss, came a personair.

torcin abut romantice.

10 sewele whiteret tree f sould in.

"Al first le was sors of. a habhi, Nei

Pra it became my main disse da inte.

Litted States. "li was a

tricky situation," says Stitch. "He was

la those days you could do thai."

HerBell fought acainst

the Bolsheviks, but brfore the collapse

of the raarist regime he miscis scured

as liaison o!ficer bi.

ties ai lie arorael on his office calle

-'allords me a damnid cund inez.

The Hears of li

ruti a hobby, hes i raying boblig.

HeBall purchased the imble retair.

He installed rudimentary dreian fart:

In this couniry for the rene ol his life.

putting his early medical trainina do

cas he bribeund had the tor chores of

disquised arisceralic

tha small, underdeveloperl netiars ol

2a a substituiton

Asia and Latin America. "I Postied

peasant dictatship over the priatra.

mary pratilem was a tar: al Coptli in

without question on mitise sniurpris

ingly, his elite is compused of superga.

Siltebell HerBell was born in Pent

of the anerns, and youd: in the flati:

Trai's a lot ol bull. The bril say te

get weir bearta, l theyre the crum,

Ameriean father and his Scottish.bom

mother arrived in the U.S. at the end

of World War I. His parents trajeled a

good deal, here and abroad, and stitch

waveled with then, picking j his rou

cation as he wert.

While he experimented

paquietly, in miold Fighleng with

the federal-iber Bali proceeded mith

Lis personal brand of cropolitics.

nade himself avaiable to anticommu-

risi manes that marind teig in light.

in ot one band of incurrents or on.

Pennssivania' In World War 1L. Te

Joined the 055, and sersed with a urii

behlnd Japanese lines in China, rising

• treadis with a number nd latin diner.

lo the rant of captain ánd acquirinz a

political Attoramn.

casle for querrilla-lipe warfaro hi

would nes cr lose

cans The tell as tiny diet about it"

W'erBell mosed to Atlanta shrmiy.

after ibe mar and went 1o wo:à in ad.

ages, especially Barr Vezitis, 201

hang titis linedy

brains, berame hiddly excecisad oieg

Verlairs acuuur and his banke

rievo on the cordle (eriel! opposed

a cessation. of hostilies and establish

costition

Bunken

coniklaier

tryinG

81;

'1614

• HerBell out of the cuntry, bu: antho

ing came ali. Herirls' indrpendent

дРого СІл.

milliomaires ot

hatever-saw in that.

Perloodt war alreody ortlor is the

wiit a ornee 01 des aul discipline tbal

exiles har seldom sero. Perhaps his

major anti-Canno copluit was a speed.

beat toroy inio Canariora, un Cubin

southern roast.

The m:s:n

drin a swuminer, apparently 290y, oli.

shole. nad in pick up she damily no on

exile lender. The boat. livinithe Con-

federate

nas on lhe railin anteuna.

{nundered inhich aras. ood the raiding

party was caplorer. The Cubans, 15.e

Mary coed. dle not kare sat to mais

el the brand workell, and me and bia

pola couad 8p stealing i Craleo. load

and spiritina rome it anticaster

nut of the couniry before phry loom.

selves returned in the Uniled stole.

Vietnam Superhawl

nam, and could de sappy li the U.9:

were airo achting communing in sul

ils neizaboring countrica.

Thalland, "working

closely

with the

supreme cominand," for monthe, are

moring the sales no hl sirapons and

"I tood them thane like

suriciliance equipment and niche vi-

sion.enuipment. stult that lots you sur.

nrise the hell, out of

the harlails.

Did be dn any fishline binneil? Her.

Beil chuckles. "I ain't mansence le be

shotina the stuff. just demerstrating

hraw ta shoot.l."

Thire years ano, limboil's weapons

husiness became promising enouch fer

him en an intre ll full time: 1is cruar

ledda firm called Sinnico dor sauces

MANENANT WANT

tollars id

There

1e lie antidian 0:es

man!.

MAN 10 DON A3r PEON HIT 909

to sint

Contrary to ereradi pursiren. For

Sprliza

Wue a H9r0E 19 3190

Werlell eng an atrocio

in lags, stayo do nica: fear Che

cien: anse des errand iris li

sware. core 5:990

Rector 1o lorder Socinda World

clares,

properly l8 they don: 1190 1h0 ins

however. Thera le a piral; 1-7e

visitore and aulter, tres li:

well no Amarions A law urgen

Ernant

calend, thee

in.

7: OnlY in 009 9008: 4270 50-9 1111

Benths, hors told,

I was there, the celess tore!

% =:

Vice Real tremila 10189 polanto pora

Departizent a 1439

coedinó so We-dell, he said, The t

Lions

of the forcino

pallartet

nif

United Stolen arr the Durisong on

Siale Department in l'acturae.n.

Mitchell

Werkel!

f'er

Sprines.

Career a "

present poling te that i sacer 1i2h

theory completely. l'eria

Intartly.

they. like

can sissynd: 045100190119119

dependent aroug" marco on

A.: 710. A:199L0 Me R11:18

ing, 3

---

## Page 87

D

CONTACISA NIAMI

FROM

24693

MArca? ConCilo Cald 441 10 Tild 211 Mule H01103180S

INVALVET

14 CHE 4046146

1,81100

IS YCETIOVE3

TU A SUAGHUNOGON POSTO METICLE TOMAR 14 CONDICION GIOM MITOSO

•SOVE SOLOS DICILIA GORDONO AZALATA ROSA DECOLAG SENO 30 1017034

MA, ONEASEY SLOGESTO TEAT TOURARIDO DE POSGIOG 157 POUTARE VITA

NERBTIL.

¢ 0

F 11

4.15

---

## Page 88

SEGRET

-12-79.09

Tw: 03

Iroctor, Demetle Contoet Corvico

Cater, meat Piold Ortico

15 May 1969

104-084-69

Local OST Taquiry Regarding Inforant 100 00 Mechall

Li. Bartoll

Do: 19 19y 1969, Spestal Agent Davo Plowen, Local OfT reprocentative.

RAP, violted the Moal Pleld Office to nollelt eny inforstion ve aigat

have regarding Hitcholl L. Verball who apparently to undergoing a bocurity

closrance choos an the rosult of presetly bolag seployed by a compen

Vith o corerasant contrace.

kertolz van an unsoliettel contant of tate orfico bestrales in

1939 and he roaches pedi notoriety in Boverbor 1907 as a mault of bis

involvent In the Polando Matorror trial in cunnentles vich Cra chortive:

notizes Lavastos, John Crannoy, cou vse In Meat as tea tira to overaco

3.

Piome in contacting ober la coversent agencies Localiy

inaluding this Us Attorony's Optico scathou recefred an Iidication that CIA

tal informaison ou barbola; eam Flousan's violt too ino bloal Piali Orrice.

do it tru indianal to Plote, dio 19 inosu peracnally by dovoral

Debars of this sunrf, tens me tues on Warkali and that on scenaion le

i moral malichied informatica. It son sulgerted, hoover, thai

Ploisen direct Alo

requeat offleially kuwah chamale vis daI's egary

11s1s00 officor 18 Vasalastea

of locat CLA Beaurity.

Ero lo for bockeror cas la soles forested as to mastion

12';

---

## Page 89

. 1€

F 12-79.00

Sede 22-7

CP:0:Geat21

A 122900

calca Dio dee caraea che 20dam 67 abd eca $014 4a2e

A tea de, dordi coudeso sua catana cherata

tard' tos

H2cucN9 ao 266

Ferne dat

Da modest

mi diter

aletto la

Os No: 23t

Ans wiseal

Certae li

Th: 1451819281

rig: I D

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1334

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 90

14-000n

#FaL

F:12-79-00

Dirastor, Donatio Contact Carria

2d March 2967

086.61

RO в 100-060-67

"do tortoll called the Mont offloa ca 23 mar 67 and then casa det

Bert Consolas ts not in, edvleod the cocretery that the faderal charnes

sontest his hed bein ar

to have not ecariried this. Me do not

Intend to renew our some

nots vịth hia top the Bie boing as leant.

Plos

pavla Joha Orenney of the crisse os too General onacos

of shto coralogarat and elve up vesterer moon

Bove as lo cur futuro relattons vita terial.

4. 2.5

-00.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1904

CIA EISTONICAL REVIEW PRO 2221

---

## Page 91

512-79-00

Direotos, Dossorso Contact dervice

2. Mered 1968

Chios, Mant Pass 015100

Dutcholl In Herball

4127900

2o Tou vill recall that Job Groanay of the Office of Coneral Councel

ma 1a. Heat for angrel dovo ta comection vich tho redaral ears vending

entnat subjoet. Kertoll ven indictod on federal conspirery charges erilne

out of the abortiro tolen attent of Bolts a short time ago.

2. Followtas the lodierrent bordala carton un and inatess enge to

use to bo tmorvisuad on nestonide my through station MSs-cy 1a Atiento."

No salled tary Hecres and anbed hin to saltor local covorage, and ta

covered the me stations for a perlad of soveral days. bertell Nia not

argear on a national boosus, but tarry decros informed un that he asa

oper on a to starte taped organt on einistry, Dias AM. roleract

coly. Vertoli sala bo could, la do muleo:

"tas a aitinens ariost of

Meet mammar, don Mecono, at ou, bounca be aid no sore them car

did."

mry sald shet bo Glaa't bollara thet use station soor bie state

3. Persoli men also laterioral ba "Foo Allonta Cons-lterion", sad:

"Constitution" of 23 Pos 67 ta clea

Hertal so quoted concenatay the Induras.

Vola you alongn pous tho clovo to Jets arcotay.. You dicht 1880r

a scoreracion gior to calling us. parall cuted his in the man factl

La fat cinemantina.

he here has m nuchor content with tarli.

8 IN

as stales

APPROVED FOR DELEASE 1694

CIA ESTONICAL REVIEW NACGANS

---

## Page 92

F-12-79-00

SEGRET

Fre 23: 10e: 64°87

ATIN! 1

SUBJECTS ALLEGED ASSASSISATION ATTORT

REF'S "A.

SLAM 171d

19 2210

DO ME CONNELLA

TALCONG OF 2I FES AND 23 FER 67

MITCHELL DE CCEL. CALLED DANT GONZALES YESTERDGY TO AOVISE

•IMAT IS NAD RECLIVED TOO PHONE COLLS FROM CHEL SOAK EXPRGGCING

CONCERN OVIA INE. FACE INAT MO ONE MAD CONTACIED KEN PUR OLTAILS

CUNCENNINO THE ALLEUEE ACUASOIMATICN ATTERPT SETLANED SO IN

124254

MIARE 17LEO ORAY STATEO THAT UNLESS ME MEAN ERDE SONGUODY CAMRORATELY,

HE SOULO TARY MIS BAFORATSON TO THE GOVERNOR CE CALIFONSZA ON

• THE MORNING O6. 25 SEE 07O DA CURRENDLY HAVE AN ADOREES FOR CHAYE

3RA WORTH CORNUROT DRIVE, BEVERLY MILLSE OLES 274-49260

copy

F/*

$ 67-54/ Chief Shay)

1.321

APPROVED FOR MELBASE 28/64

CIA MSTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 93

Control

F-12-79.00

DIA, 29 Johnny 1961

sun/str mitchall lentoll/Choe Ory

A-12.710

aul -67-54

B-61-41

Cope, / del facket!

1/.20

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HSTORICAL REVEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 94

£ 12-79.00

-201S3EZ CITE CONTACIS/MIAMI 1710

CONTACTS1

ATIN!:

FROND

A 122900

I. SO HAVE ALCEIVED A MOST UHUSUAL PHONE CALL FRON MITCHELL

VERDELL, PONDER SPRINGS, NECROID, DETALLS OF WELCH FOLLONS

VENGELL IS A SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE BAO MAS BEEN 2%6

OCCASIONAL CONTACT MITH THIS OFFICE, OF MIS DON VOLITION, CINCE 1559.

WELLE AN UNSAVORY CHARACTER, RUCH GE THE INFONSATION HE HAS

PUNISHED HAS PHOVED TRIL. HE FUNISHED COMPLETE DETAILS ON THE

RECENT KAISSAN INVASION PLAY. INS PHONE CALL WAS RECLUVED BY BART

SONZALES FREM NIM AT LICO MELHE OU 13 FEBRUANSE ME STATED THAT HE HAD

JUST HAD A TELEPHONE CALL ERO^ CHAT BRAY OF LOS ANGELES, NO MODRESS

(PHONE 274-49224

Time B.67-54

3O GRAY STATED THAT NE NAO DEEN APPROACHED REGARDING THE

POSSIBLE ASSAGCINATION IN PHENOSO OF A CLOSE PELATIVE, POSSIOLY.

A ANOTHER OR SONG OF A MIODLE-FAST RULER, WITHIN THE NEXT LA DAYS.

NO DID NOT FURNISH THE NAYS OF THE ALLEGED VICTIM, NOR OY 9H04

Mi SAS APPROACHED. GRAY TOCO SERBELL THAT HE DID NGT WANT

TO SET INVOLVED IN AN INCIDENT THAT MIGHT CAUSE INTERNATIONAL.

#1

B.62.54 (Cheet Arry)

4: 1%

APPROVED FOR DELEASE 0604

CIA NISTORICAL REMEN FROGRAM

---

## Page 95

PAGE 2 CONTAGTSIMIARL 171S AS

REPERCUSSIONS AND ASKED VERZELL FOR ADVICE. WEL

BELL ADVISED GRAY

TO INFORN THE FBI IN LOS ANSELES, BUT SRAY VAS RELUCTANT TO DO SOO

VERBELL THEN ASKED GRAY 1 ME YOULD BE VILLING TO TALR GITH A

MLIBER OF CIA AND GRAY ASREED. VERBELL TOLD GRAY THAT LE A

REPRESENTATIVE OF CIA COSTACILO HIA, VERBELL'S NAME VOULD BE

USED AS ENTRES,

THE ABOVE SOUNDS LIAL SOMETHING OUT OF THE GRADIAN MIGMIS+"

BUT 1 DID MEET A CHET ORAT FROM LOS ANGELES AT A LOCAL CONTACT'S

HOUSE IN 1S62, SOME DETAILS OF WHICH ANE COMTAIRED IN COASS9601

AND DOA(S) 9598 DATED 1E DEC 62O BRAY LS A MOTORIOUS HOODLUM

AND MIGHT EASILY HAVE SEEN APPROACHED FOR SUCH PURPOSE.

Sa. PLEASE HANDLE THE ASCUE AS YOU SUE FIZO

---

## Page 96

1/2.79:09

ARONTY COM

10 107

Geomarro

INFO PHSONITY JHEAVE CURICTOR

PRIURITY CONTACTSL

ATTNE INT DIV CHELLERY

COUNTRYS MAILI

SUBUECTE MINE 10796 = PROPOSKE DIVASION CANCELLED

DOL

*B. 23. NOV 66 AND LARLIER

ACO

REF

LA CIRL C-DC6-22631

C63

PONDER SPMINGS ANGLONLILA

USSO NATIONAL, SULDERE UF FORTUNE TYPE GUIN VIOL

EXPLIERCE IN LATIN AURICA. HE IS CLOSELY ASEOCIATED

KITH SOLANDD

THIS NEPONT SAS DLVILUPLO DE HIGUY RLPHESCOTATINE ASSTENZO TO THE

OFFICE OF PREPARATION D

DUATES THE NIGHT OF 2O SOV. GO A DICISION HAS REACHED TO CALL OFF

THE PROPUSED LOVACION DE LATION THE GHOUT DONGONSO DY POLANDO

CASTERRED, TAE INVASIOr 1S UNT INCERINATELY!

FATALA LA DAPTECT CORORGESS INO COLONEL GENE (LEON) MAVE

BLE AROUND CATA REGIONIA NEUCH MOG GAUGLE GONPUSTON AND

DISORSANILATION

in the roared, many dions acrouce TO PARTICIPATE

HAVE PULLED QUE AND SEATADY COLES PAPOLON (VILLARDISES (EIC), A

CUBA MATIONAL AUD ALLEGLO MILITARY CAPONTO NAS NSTUNRE BECAUSE OF

DISSENSION ON THE CAGET A

3. 1: 16 DECECULO DIAT UDO OCVERAIUNT AUENCILS HAVE INFILIRAIED

THE MOVERENT AND NE LEAVENG FEAR THAT ALL GEAPONS AND EGUIPMENT

BOULD BE COMPLOCATLO DE CALD FOR TAR LEVASION PASCRLOEOS

END OF KEPORT.

4.18

4O C/OS DARTOLO CONZALLLO PLEADS PREPARE MARO COPY IN

MEADQUARTERS.

67

APPROVED FOR BELEASE 1094

CIA MISTORICAL REVEN FROGRAM

Barbies gra erstar:

---

## Page 97

112.19-00

2229182 CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 1658

PRIORIT' CONTAGIST

ATTA INT PEN CHELLER SA NOZIN

COUNTATE MAITA

PECTE MINI TOTE TALE MORE, ENVASIOV/PONTES CHANGE

On PLANE

4510

• 001

ACC

Ze NOV 66

-22 NOv 6t

PITCHELL Le VERSEL

A 127900

PONDER SPALUGS, GEOPOLA

UAS. NATIONAL, SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WITN VIDE

33. 112 y

EXPERTEICE IN LATIN AARRICAD HL 1S CLOSELY ASSOCIATED

GIIT ROLANDO. MASAERIER

GENIE EZPORT VAS DEVELOPLO SY A NAVY AEPILSERTATIVE ASSIUNCO TO

THE OFFICE OF PREPARATION

& NOV AS LA SPITE OF GULAPREAD PRESS REPORTS, NO

INVASION OF KAITI HAS TAXEN MLACES

ROLANDO CASTERALS ROUGS SID IS SPONSORING THE ALLEUED

INVASION, MAS BEEN TELLING QUOR IXILES THAT HIS GROUN NAS SECURED

THE AIRPORT AT PORT-DA-PAIS AND THEY DAOULD BE PREPAREO TO LEAVE

AT ANY TINE.

4:17

SO MASFLAREA HAS GIVES UP TAG DOEA OF MOVING NO JROUP, WHICH

CONSISTS OF APPUURITATELY SOR CUSANS AND 18& MAITLING, BY BOAT AND

1S TRYING TO MANE IRGAUCEMENIS FOI CHANTERINO LLEVEN ALNCHAFT,

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1004

CIA MESTOLICNA

TEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 98

INCLUDLIASOXE DE-JOSÉ ONE DE TAE DO-3'5 NOULO CARMY COLONEL ALME "

ELEONO, MASFERRER, AND FATALE JEAN BATISTE UrONGES•

INE MAN RUDSON IS IO SE UELO TO CARRY PART OF THE VEAPONS.

THE TASFLARER SROLP 1S DELL ARELD AND HAS PLENCY OF USAMONSO THEY

HAVE THREE TONS OF C-S DYÑARITE, AND ALSO HAVS SOME C-Z AND C-40

3• THE MENRLEITA II VILL CARRY PHOTOGRAPHERS.

GO IN SPITE OF THE ANOVE I SELIEVE THAT THE INVASION" IS A

FARCE AND IS FALLINS APARTO PASFERRER IS MERELY TRYING TO COVER UP

FOR INE FUNDS ME MAS RECLIVER POR THE INVASION. IT IS DELIEVED

THAT KASFERRER S LIFE VILL DE DAMONT IV HE DUES NOT MAXE SOME

OSTENSTOLE EFFORT-

END OF REPORT

CASO B. GONZALES.

PLEASE PREPARE HAND COPY IN HEADSÜARTERS.

BT.

CC%

SUBJECT LINE FIRST PONTION AFTER CINI NUMOR SALD READ " FALSE

AVE PARA O LINE

PT. SNLD REA

REAL "THAT RASFERNSAS LIFE WILL DE IN DANGER 1P*

1072:1

---

## Page 99

APPROVED FOM MELENOS S004

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

F- 12-79-00

CONTACICL

ATINO TAT DIV CALTLA)

COUNTRYS MALIL/CONINICAN REMUSLIC/DAMARA

SUBJECIS MINI LOSSS - PLANSIO INVASION OF WALTE DEINECN

3= 13 NCV 66

DỘI

: ACO

CAS

28. 0C1. 66

-a-| NOV 66

REA DOS CASE 415.07 LA CUAL C-D66-52251

A 122900

PONDER SPRINOTO NEGAGIA

U.5O HATTOVAL ALON LOS TRAVEL EXPERLENCE IN LATIN

AMERICA. ME SPDANS SURE SPANISH AND MAS MANY SOCTAL

AND BUSINLOS CONTACIS LA THE DOMISICAL ALFUELICE

CINIS REPORT DAS DEVELOPED Y A NAVY REPOZSENTATIVE ASSIINEO

TO THE OFFICE OF PREPARACIONO)

16. ON 28 OGT G6 1 SPOKE RITO MOGANDO CLASSEARESD ROJAS, A

CULAS LAILE, AND RE TOLDEL CHAT ME NOS DASANTERO A MILITARY

FORCE DE APPHOSIRATELI 25A UN TO INVADE MAITIO THE LEVASTON FORCE

CONSISIS OF CUDA AND MAITING EXALCO RESIDIDO SA THE DOSO, THE

BAMANA, AND TRE DOLINICAR ALPUSLIGA THE LEVASION WILL FRODABLY:

GE LAUNCHED FROA INE COMUNICO REPUULIO COMETIRE GETWEEN S AND 1S

NOVENOER ANG THE TANGET LE PORT-AU-PRINCEA

THE LEVASION FORGE

WILL STRIKE iN THE LASLY ROSA OF TNE MORNING SALACTICA 17 IS

WELL ARMEO, AND WILL NOES AI: COVER; TRE PRESIOLATINL PALACE

DILL DE LORULE.

4:16

2O MASFERALA CIATO TUSO COCEDE LO CANIELLGEODO MARTIAG

CONSUL LA RIADA, FLORALA, LS AGARE OF THE INVAGRON, BUT SE DAS

NO ANONLEDES DE TRE LASAGOGO GARRO MAGINILIER DO PRECION LA

HAITI INFORMINà PRESIDENT COUGALILAD THAT THE INVASIOS CAN DE

RETUR: TO THE LOSO UN : MUGIÓ AN ML HAC APLiO GEN GASFERREN

THAT SE DUVALIER AGIRLE lO TE MAY-ÖSE, Mitlallla alio RECElVE

---

## Page 100

FASFERNLA TOLD AS TONG THA LAVASION WILL TANL PLACE IN ANY

EVENT ANU THE SASHORENO LE MEGANSO, GOULA DE USED TO FURTNER:

SUPPORI THE INVASIJA.

PAGPENHEN OTAILD THAT NE PLE DININ TIL PAST LE CAYS ALTH

SEVERAL DISSIDENI FAITIAN EARS OFFICERS AND HE HAG RECEINCO TICIN

SUPPORT. IME MAILAN ARMY SIFICENS TOLD MAFENIER THAT THEY

WOULD REVOLT AS SOÓN AS INFORMO THAT THE INVASION HAD COMPENCED.

THLY DO MOI KNOW THHT THE TANGET WILL OL PORT-AU-PRICHCES THEY

-OLLILVE THAT IT VILL DE IN THE CAN MALTIEN ARZA.

30.

MASFERREE STATED THAT HE WAS CONFIDENT THAT THE INVASION:

VILL SUCCEED, AND IF SUCCESSFUL, FATHER JEAN BAPTISTE (GEORGES)

DOULD DE APPOINTED PROVISIUNAL PRESIDENTO

MASFERACK STATED THAT

COLONEL RENE SLEON), MASTIAN EXILE, VILL FARTICIPATE IN THE

INVASION. END OF REPORT.

60 C/GA BIT GONZALESA

PALPAKE HATO COPY IN XEACUGUARTSNS

PLEASE.

BT

•i!:

99/5/11

-59:111

Passara

---

## Page 101

F-12-79-00

4215:

DE

1312/26

INT XXXXX

91314703

9T

4151934

ZERO THREE SEVEN VA

TOR 1112.

WA CITE MIAN. 1220

ATTN:

INTORONTLOGEL DEN (CORANT)

COUNTRY:

GUATIONLA

MUQUSCTE MENT DO714

NGY.

p01: 17 JAN E6

AC01 0012 UNI 6E.

REAS CIRL C-CC5-62573

& COUP DEETAT PLANNTE

2013 11 23 14/153

#.127900

LE LATIE AFENICEA

X7IO PEPORT DAN CEU 16800 11 : 10ON REPARGEUTATIVE A5010328 9

• THE DIFICE OF MOERGENT:"-OD

TODER POESIENT APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1094*

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRARI

4.14

---

## Page 102

CONCES NENE PLANEO

15 SAN 1CO YDIOGIAN DOLO AN INGO DE FRE COLE MAS GOT CAREREO SUR D9

1S JUANY, IT VOLLO DE CANCEROS AS 1OUS-CC

1O05EN4L ARLASETE

2. YOSGRAS MONES HOT TELL NI THE ARESOR INE BADIVIONALS

•LEADING THE COUPO

SIT CIETEO TARO CALL OF THE ARARO FORCES VILL

BE UNVOLVED."

EGO OF SEPORT®

eso se fo desPatico

HAND CONY TO DE PREPARED

BY MEADQUARTSRG

4.14

CEN IC8S CONANO SOTOVALA SOL ATUE COUP DIETAD 12 JAS 66 82 J0S S6

IRL

C DC 3:32574

Drentre dara Posan cancios cLonata 0s 44710

AMLEICA SPANISH

DONDE CO DA CO LOUELITO Y0160099 ENERO

COLODOL TURIGUE PORALIA IS GES DE COUR SCT CARETEO 1S BASURES

NOT THEL CE DE GONZALES

UT

---

## Page 103

12-74-00

i'"

1.1',

ol. 2952/53

INY 7.XXXX

POA21N3Z

DT

XXXX!

ZERO ONE 3IX VA

so fort

AT TIE L

CER: #1: 098-39.05 17 020

MITCHELL FO

179900

CASINO TO

we arreper shedded

Aare ta son out sortie:

ELILTTICLTY TO LAVATAR

16111001124

SURITY. IS PETCATO!

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1934

CIA FISTURICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 104

homer teat

RUAS AS FOR COLLAR DE AGLE AGORANGE DY CRIADO NO CHAGATION

MISSioN 1a Suicipal

ATTEPT ON THE BUECI CHE PLANT WILL DE TO ALL CURNOS BID

PEALTRATE ARRA FOLLASERO GRICH THEY VIUL SLOS LE KEY SQUEPNLUT.

4O PERDELL SATO THAT RECE ALSO ALLEGEOLY MAS A

GROUP IN CUSA AT- PRESENT POR THE PUNZOSE OF ASGASSIMATING FIDEL

CASTRUS

SO PLEACE MAGODE ABOUE DECISO SEGAITO PYLE: SONGEEL 19 A

NOTONICUS CON MAM AND COLEEEECE FORTUNA TYNGO CRES GONDENSALO

09R2L7A3620

TORE CASTRO DIO COI GO 17 DAC OS MITCHELL DERRELL

BART CONCAURE A QUAR VARANETO DOGENAEE DANUATE DOT MOSSEULE

UNABLE DO AO IOTATION MACARIE A COR CONSIOLNED UNDELINGLE

1/. 12

---

## Page 105

14-00000

F. 816/5

Office Memorandim • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

Vilut, Cuntest Divicion

Index Branch

chief, Mant fled officu

DATE: 2i VELY 1059

A - 81615

BỤBJECT:

Cord Chileo, Florida

1..

I thie evenine of: 2% July 1099 I duecived a telephone all fix oundert,

no had been given my nans indoddroon by roother Beleont of the

confunles in crucil ton with the Foul lity or hir

Late infoimation

matering the merced torerdsni; altens of Betlote De the us.

Muriel? Indezed that hoopont' areas anount of milo send in the

coat, and ting with Conornl fore Icirara,

He cinated to hove ocon & toner member

er the 066 with service in chibe thati.

no ronto l macede, driveo e Mongodoralone, chorto a mont attenative blonde 2t.

Friend, maid

in a Dil Spender.

ile aloo retunteered that he hagin wife id six

chattiren Laythe In Georgeno

3.

Barboil told me thuit his mrinciple

source of Incone is it doiline with

cuban pesos, and cold that ine

10 arbordetod in the Dosirees with a don tipho co

Leo incolos, a jone cuotel ano forcely played wilh tee dimy Borag and Jon

Guruct bondo.

i.

Ipo 0100 centes to bore mona neuver of 086 durine Wo, sexying in

the insanion ad banthon incopelt acon.

Ilpio me imaily engaged da moing Long.

distance more endle to Mexico glin,

10n on the time I won with thr group.

Nirbell core me aone Infemation on Unclotan please, thick in baskedlay

amenablton, and islahed cord otogy nangtat indoration which to tedie for-

wendre, alchouch in my epinion littoe rodence can be geared in anthias to gaye.

I: 1c have to evaluato mab toroeld's notives are in concoction rich his destr

so tumish intorution regardine Potiota to nap but L6 corearod

thist to Has nico

to

rish for informattor,

throwind out & nuner of questions concoirthis

the Releuor Perrace Hotel, reportedly rosaily to hare boon Dirchrised by Chilian

The machouse repertedly has been comletely

roccoraton, mion kiary choel door moodine the entrices.

suita

nas boch marted to id

tattato's Intendad handquartors once he arrives in the US.

Ait of this ins boch witton enout tin the gesty enters

ni. stie

Ianseuch as Haricad ime ay none and phone nator, pronnata 100ie con

in done to provont he gatting

in touch with no fron thee to tire,

aut

contact

vill not to Initiciod by me cheont by directin.

The basic purpose or this nemo

is for the moron.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994-

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

CUST

---

## Page 106

OfFiCE

NUMBIR.

P006

300S6

(When Filled in)

PROCESS SHEELFOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIFID US ONIY

CHO COM

980

CASF

NUMBER-P

12 10 22100

11236

PS UH ONIY

LaDD

1901266

0903

Bolts

O CONIAC Ldama.

Mitchell he Marbell

Pointer Spriago, Georste

10 k0 02 00 2g

1і 286

19000

114: 0041

ME PHOU OF LOUI CHON

intar riot

Oihar Ossumani

TRO CORAINS

VALUATICP

LOUISIDTION

we trip sorens

Order (cely boise)

'in tyss.

700

IỞ N152

1ивir 055s

RSTORSIVETO SPICIIC

FCUIRLAENTS

4.ID.or.

C/S

FORSA

25

3.00

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1924

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

3

---

## Page 107

ON NOPORE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

love coronero omisino devot date to ed i undo no of do loo do 1.

NO DISSEM ABROAD

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY BAIti

SUBJECT Proposed Invasion Cancolled

00-8-321/29222-66

30 Nov. 66

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR:

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

Thia roport vas previcuol;

diaseminated as TD-003-322/

19112-66

DATE OF

INFO:

23 nov 66 and earlier

PLACE &

PATRACO COM 23 Nov 66

SOURCE:

2.

÷3.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

US netional, soldier of fortung type vita vide experience la Latia Aberteas

He Lo olosely associated with Relando Masfosterg

(Tolo report vas developod by a lavy representativo snaigned to the office.

of preparation:

During the night of 22 nor 66 a declaion was reached to call off the proposed

IRves108 of Hell by the group aponsored by Rolando Manferrer, To Love 100

1e off indefloitely.

Father Jean Baptlote Georges and Colonel Rene Loon have been argutag vito

Masterror Voich has caused conrunion and alsorganization in the noverent.

has reulgard because of diesension in the group.

It la bolieved that US Governest agencies bavo loftltrated the ovenent

and the loadore fear that all voapons and equipment sould be confiscated if

plane for the lavasion proceeded.

- end:":

U-YES

INFORM

GrOW

refrigera soone

"REGED FORN ORANHION

REPORT

CIA HESTORICAL REVIEK FAUGHAR

49.:0

Tho dissemisa1a0s

410.203

2 RAN

ee and ortire

allary personaci mab:e

---

## Page 108

12-79-00

#HID

OFFICE.

BEPORT.

(When. Filled In).

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLLECTIONS

POR FIELD USE ON!

CODE

CASE

¡OR HGADQUANIERS USE ONLY

#GEIVED".

DA:

1 0 7:

6

1/1236

4999166

SUCHCH MICALLA

RILLASED

of Pin

VA

37 20 B2

00 0 00 0000

(nasts)

11.226

C. CONTAC liame: line, Organiration.

Addrese)

•BYPE ODE:

' Mitchell' I. Herbel

0127900

Ponder Springs, Georgit

ARIA.

sà 33.

No. SOUNCe Isome Milo, Organisation, Address)

I DIVINUGINO

10iA,

Game do ebove

SUB COUNCE is bama, Tine. Organisation nudiess

FIQUAL THO

1. MENTOU OF COLLION

(VAIVATION

EL QUESIEU FRONA

USER OraT

IXCHANGUS

PI'FONGIVE TO SPICIFIC

#QUIREMENIS

Other Datomora

Trip Report

Onor (spécity, tolsai!

NO:

1O USSS..

FHOM USSG

D/ 17

ALADQUARITES COMMENTS.

I don't foollove you could hate

covered the irvasion" better if you had

used an umbrella.

An excellont job, I thinke.

isl

C/S

75

00.

Codolels prorious

4:48

ustt/Desk

3

170-011

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MSTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

---

## Page 109

INLORMATTO

This

B. UJC Sire 991 Do4/ 88

CONTROLLEO DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Hafts

False Reports of Invasion/Reported

Change of Plana

2u-?1

REPORT

SINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

REPORT NO

". DATE DISTR

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-8-321/19007-66

38 Nov 66

NO PAGES

REFERENCES Inte report was previouply

disscrinated as 10-00-3-321/19067-66

DATE OF

INFO:

PLACE &

PATE ACO.

SOURCE

22 Nov 66

==/22. Nov. 66

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED. INFORMATION

US national,

soldier of fortune type with wide expertence in Latin

America. He 10 Closely assoctated with Rolando Masferrer.

This report was developed by a lavy representative asolined to the

office of preporation:

1.

Ao Of 22 Nov 66 in spite of videspread pross reports, no invasion

of laitt has taken place:

2.

Rolando Masferrer Rojas who is oponsoring the alleged Invasion, has

been telling Cuban extles that hio group has secured the alrport it

Port de-Pals and they should be prepared to leave at any time.

3.

Maoferrer hag elven up the idea of moving his sroup, which conolots

of approximately 300. Cubans and 100 Haitians, by boat and la trying

to make arrangements for chartering cleven aircraft, Including sone

D6-39 One of the De-3's would carry colonel Rene Leon, Masterrer,

and Father Jean Fatlate Georges.

22-2524

4.

The M/V Hudson In to be used to carry part of the reapons.

The

Manterter Broip 13 vell armed aix hay plenty of veapons.

they have

three tons of C-3 dynamité, and also have sone C-2 and c-4.

So The icnrietta It wil carry photographers.

6. In spite of the above I belleve that the "invasion" is a farco and

1o falling apart.

Manferrer 1o vercly trying to cover up for the

udn he has received for the invasion. It is believed that laoforrer's'

Ilfe will be in danger 1f he does not make sine ostensible effort.

• end a

S-YES

ATIO

194. 259

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

REPOR

4.9

59001050501

---

## Page 110

14-000n

FIELD

OFFICE

NUMBER

SUBJEET-A'O'GRIA:

queet for Ance

G: CONTAGIRdero, Tate: iponisation Adorens

Mechall be HERDELE

Ponder Sprtage

SOURCE iftimó Tiller:

•(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR'EID USE

@Nat

CODE

Lied

CASE:

NUMBER:

1 To 1a

120

RECEIVED

4о.

220320

12-79-00

POR MEADQUARTERS USH ONIY

016 1

19

1

4

76

RELF A SI D

IND: DUỆI HO

TYPE 0OE

so on 2001 so

0e 25ta

4 плічна

SUBIECI

$71

1abis

SuB-SOURCE fro.ne. lila.Orgonisation.

TOUR, 1O

MAElIOD OF COLLECTION

Iniorpion

Dinor Doxiumort

FIELD COMANÉNIS

Prio Repont..

Joher logact, boise)

EVAJUATON

HEQUESTEO SHOM

EXCHANGES

ICHECK ONE,

80 0550.

MEADQUARICRS COMMENIS

RESFOHISINE NO CHECHIC

JOIC\

Congrate 6100 10148

89-FB-8:

Arrant FE

CIA HISTORICAL

4 4

DG A200

PROGRAM

08 MAY 1967

i.§

3

---

## Page 111

¡his main al raven information allecting the Nabonal Dolerise ol she United Siales atten le emanno ded ihe lopierage laws, Tirle

18. USE fair 1i3 ind i93,

to Marismusion ir revelaion il aluck in any manner la an sauered person i rishidated by low.

• CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY : Venezuela

SUBlICI

Requeat for Arm

NO DISSEM ABROAD

FIC: 2-324/11467-67

27 Apr 67

REPORI PIO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGIS

REFERENCES

LA CIRL C-DC6-33134

DATE Of INTO Apr 67 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. -/APE 67 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE US national, soldier of fortune type, with vide experience in Latin America.

1.

In April 1967 I was approached by a prominent: Venezuelan whom I prefer not

so identify:

He asked me to arrange procurement of 150-300 9 # sub-machine

guns. with 1-2000 roundo per Bunn

Delivery was to be

"ao soon as possible"

Me did not

dentify the group for whom they were being obteined but

Indicaced f6 was o

"right wing operation"

3. I told him i vas unablo co be of gaslocance.

-end-

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

367

17. 3

$

YES

U :

YES

---

## Page 112

(When. Filled.in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLLECTIONS

12-29.00

PON HEADQU

#HID

OBSICE.

A POG!

NUMAFE'

2

NUMBLE.

AMDE

10006

Pammod Dayssdon of Bull Botreen J-s3 Bor 66.

Bits/strenn neuble/base

G CONIAC! Nome line Organuation Addion)

Mitchell Lo burbell

Fonder Quings, George

23026

1707966

11/03

NOT QUAI

A: 129900

TINA DOE

ЗАМЕ

METHOD OF CLATTERON

Cher Derumen

Uthai ispersly bolow

ALUATIO

DAN 0TẠY

LIGNARGIS

RESPONSINE O SEEN

GODLENE

10.105503

wethaugh Cheat

alienatte

This nepend tor, one

intercel

4.7

Edenselea

HUR'" 23

3-0.

#linens

Air cares

Cose ju.

banshum

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1904

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Lacoltser

3

---

## Page 113

12. 20-90

INFORMTION

EPORL

SINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• 909 eat 90e

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTSY InSEs/DaAlnican Republiod Bahania

SUBJECT

• Planned Invueion of 5a141 between

313 Hor 66

REFORi NO

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-9-321/17979-66

7 Hor 66

Tile report wus previously

di coentnated as TD-003

321/17879-66

CIRL C-D06-5205}

DATE Of

INFO

20 Oct 66

PLACE &

PAILACQ I. Nor 66

INIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE:

Us national vith uide travel experienco 1a latin America.

Spaniah, and bas many social and buelnoss ecatedte la the Dominicen Repubite.

(Into report vee developed by a lavy representatire neatened to tho aprico or

preparation.

On 20:00t: 66 I (poke vith Rolando Mnsferror Rojan, a Cuban oxile, and he told

mo that ho has organised a pilitary forco of approxintoly 250 men to lovade

Baith.

The tavnoton force conloto of Cuban and Baitian exilen rosiding to

the US, the Dabanas, and the Dominican Republic.

The lavantos will prossaly

be launched fron the Dontnican Republio conatima botwoon 5 and 23 Noverber

and the target to Portrau-Princes

Tho tavaslon force will strike le the

early hours of the morning selaoted.

It 1o vell arad; and will bave air

cover; the proofdantial palaco will be boribed.

2

Maoforrer stated that Eugene I. Mudmilien, Biltian Consul In Want, Florida,

to the US

agrada to the parmore, Maxtatilaa vill recolve $50,000 and Masierter $150,000.

Nantorrer told so that the invasion vlal tako place la any event and tho

$150,000, 1l recaivod, vould be uned to further apport too 1x/as102.

Minorerrer stated that ho not withlo the past 10 days with beveral disaldost

Haitian army officer and he had ruöeived their support.

199 Haitian aro

taid assferor that they would revalt as coon sa inforned that tse

invasion bad camenced.

They do not know that the tirgut vill be Portiou

Prince; they bellove that it will bo to tho cap Inition area.

Nanfarrer stated that be was confidont that the imasion yull succeed, and 1g

pudden, a to baat oka does ald be a otto rota, sal.

partloipato la tha Jamalon.

• and

TION REPORT INFORMA

INOD FORCIAL HO

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROCRAM

REPORI

7

hits Pilo

579979989

540+3494108

---

## Page 114

N0IS CAN

12.28-00

PROCESS SHEEL FOR DOM.

"CONTACI SERVICE COLCRONS

CA3L.

1090

PURARE A:

210:10

301036

00100

ANCIANO

separt en che Deutoleen Bopablte

(Donntean Bepblio)

Sodos Bgrlaga, Coorgle

Care ero lito Dijoniotien:

...

1017G

A 12 1400

IVAI 00E

del rione, lino. Organiaton, Radion:

IN PRE DE CONCION

• lettor 219ro

M. 4194414

153.00 18006t, isige;

copy of tho actacted report fron

polendo storger sojes, fornar

Catou Sanstor.

Meaterrer cola

sourca shas the rapere ven orite

rau sy esauol "bassy" corata. e

Bubin callo,

Tha repose containe

Loterention on Re poltiteal,

aLd

Icary, Commist and econcate

slfcacton la cho Bostalean 8o®

polle, es voli so intornation

zio electiono feld en 1 dua 66.

frie fine

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

2. 6

3

---

## Page 115

illed In).

110.71-00

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTS CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS:

USE: ONLY

BORING

ADOU

FORWARDED

NUMBER

Dici

A C-

202

SUBHETAND

1191

WBL1181

4o)

4.0

G; CONTACT iName: Titte, Orgonuation, Addic)

3LOA

•T..

19t102i

were is

0122900

(іВ ароВ ВАт

AREA

Quere proomo, Tilo. Organdullan, Address):

RIOVOUATTIG

LOGARIEND TIC

11210890 + baste

19090042.891

941e813!

LINGOOS COMECHON

Östricing

0-= Daument

i foundins

Втір Дороль

Ditine levority balrus;

9 8 863, 3385

Dear; losi

APPROVED FOR RELEASE, 19041

CIA HSTORICAL REVIEN PROCRAM

4.5

3

sidesi,

---

## Page 116

×4-00000

INFORMATION RE ORT

%..

2860

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY Guatemala.

SUBIECT Armed FOrDOS COUp d'StAl PlenDod

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-D-322/00782-66

20 Jan 66

CIRE. C-D0S-52374

DATE OB

INFO.

12 Jan 66

PLACE C

DATE ACO --/12 Jon 66

-THU3.08X

EVALUATED INFORMATION

soURce

us national vith uide travel esperienco in ratio Ameries.

Se speake com

Spantch, and has nary poctal and bustnese contecte to lotta Amarto, but

hio realtobility lo not of the hebest.

Into roport was developed by a lavy representative sootened to the offloo

of properation.

2.

On 12 Jan 66 Miguelito Iatoeres LAparTe, son of the former President of

Cuatenala, told ne

that crascalen Arnod forces vere planning to overthrow

Colonel Enrique Peralta on 15 Jen 66. Ydigoras told me that if the coup

vas not carried out on 15 Jamary, it would be exocuted an soon as pondibio

thorearter.

ya1forse would not toll de toe remed of the individuals leading the coug,

but stated that "ali of the hread torcoo will be involvod."

end

Day 54%

APPROVEO FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROCLAM

F 8 FEB 1965

D-TE

4.5

REPORT

IN

al 828

VATION

milton

1$3971

---

## Page 117

SHIELD

(Who sued In)

PROCESS SHELT FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI STRVICE COLECTIONS

PORTIO UNI ONLY

OR MIADQUARI

SORWARDED

PAUMBIN

CASE:

NUMBER

12:9400

1L219208E1

F. SUBAC

•AND AUt

HO

RELEASEL

43

G'CONIACI (NOme

IT DIVIDUAL BO

1) 12 10a

00.1

TOT DUN TO

TONGUAY NO

ONE ALLABORE PRO.

HELCONAPINS COMMINS

LIMON ON COMICION

Dobroling

Oihar Dotaniäns

this Ropors

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PACCRAM

4.4

C223

3

---

## Page 118

•- FIELD

OffiCES:

SUBJECT AND

33

CONTACI ¡Nome! lila, Organidation, Audreis)

REPORI

NUMBER

(Wren Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACI SERVICE COLECTIONS

FIELD USE ONIT

FOR HEADOU

FORWARDED

RECEIVED

18,.

CASE

PUNABER.

10120

Greed lose

GEE GET

tyre

GRAPHICS. INABS:

PUBLIC ANORA

M SOUPCE letamo, litto. Organicotior, Addiese) e

SUB SOUPCE INamo, Title, Organiention, Addrors)

11-27900

FORGANI

1O1 10.

BATAVIDURE NOT

DECANIZATION riO.

SUMMINGAL 11D.

103-79-90

ONLY

• RELEASED

NO.

40 41 49 49

DISSEMIMAIED

AHEA

5.

0.

sirisa: inisc

MITriDO DE CONECTION

Debrioting

Cher Document

FIED COMMENTS

Pi?:

2n 1Hil01

MERUONARTERS COMMENTS

Trip Rogers

* t 1256

Pia 0.0+

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAP

4.3

3

---

## Page 119

F 12-79-00

PRESENTATION FORM FOR GRAPHIC MATERIAL

13. December: 1963

WAD: FO RECORD

122000 Mitche Li Herball

NUMBER FATER POCATe bather and fondlate victnity

DATE OF SAPOSURE -1CO I HONES

CAMERA OR POCAL LENGIN-:

CHECK CLASSIDICATION OF PROTOGRAPAS DARN SEPARATED FROM THIS PORM JINO GLASSIPICaRIOn RODd noI DO inE

Tron OFfiCiAL uSE ONLY.

223 SECREt

BRIEF SOÜRCE-DESCRIPTION

Us nationol vich eido travol expertence to the Cartbbeen Telando,

especially in che Dominicen Repubite.

He sposky sons Spentch.

iS SQUACE APT DO MAME ARCITIONAL EMOTOGRAPMIC MATERIAL AVAILABLE? GRaCiEros

MAY SCURCEOS NAME DE RENTALIO TO GRAPHIES REGISTER, OÇA, IF REQUIRIOR; ROCErAS CONO

DESCRIPTION OF MATERIAL

36 Black and mitte phoe printo (a and 1/2 & S) taken with a 39mm camosa.

LOAN

11.2

22502-051

FOS

HEADQUARTERA

CATE CELEBRIO TO GO AT 6OP

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

NEWEVEN NOCEAN

Dex

~12.

---

## Page 120

SECREC

PROCESS SHEET

FOR.

OO/C COLLECTIONS

POR. FIELD

USE, ONLY

BUOCESEED

PILO

REPORT

19/14

00-B. 101*89

I D

2

9.

816/5

FOR HEADQUARTER'*

RECEIVED

CAOR

ma.

de?

1922989

2920202002200

0 120

801012122

Inpad ins Plebit of Batlota/rodruza Bapodtionery force

(CURA/DONICA MUSIC)

CONTACT Name Tille, Drystation,

Mitchell Verbell no

2211 Segovie Circle

New Att

81615

Coral deblos; Morida

TYPE GO:&

BOUnCE /Nama Tille,

=+17

B 4

Done an above

BUS SOURCE.

RITRA DIESEMINATION CONTRON

MAY OP RELEAIRO ON NERU TO KHOM TO,

LISIDO CIA CHNOUGATS

FIELD REMARKS

A$ 10

PART 2.

v.

EDITORIAL COMMENT

DELETE

RATINE

1, 02,

•D BEGULARIT

91

119:0

_Office

tase

STATUS

INTS REPORT RESPONSE TO ACQUIFEMINIS FION TOTICE OR AGENCIT

EXPECI ADORIONAL INFORMATION WITHIN UAYSI

SiMAL SACRY ON INIS LASE

NO

1G:100

tene

25 POODLETE PErVIOUS

36669999094

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

1. 1

12ad11

---

## Page 121

2-77.00

N'ºI-32-71

23 rebranty 19

mint Durtle Coleotlin Diristr.

Aten:

S 1% rt Pranch Os(crint)

Chief

Pricid Office

Orrico

Resuse of Ontacta «Ith Ctophes Yen Cleare

11/329/4

1127800

1. Joes mencory, Miest riclu orrice, colled un al Umory 357l

to clye mc a ouragicod co 2.

from Atlonta, Cearole,

141371

wun cleave and ouncsted

net nine accenten

ectivitira in Arcontin

in the procero or ravina

the offies

to the nrecen

35 Jonuary 19746

that

Secretsicil ouselves in britte

CXp:

nord the masn fir

Prit Mentin

De valian

Watch Herbell end dien this

te are al

chit

a pit rooted to hie

Van Crare a esented o ecco

strice as 0s thut nitemen.

mert ved shortly hot

hts

action

rpi"

At'entn

01?d

17o?

Degentin:

merently?

grid

1n19c3?

no sinite

to the

09:0l? no nig fitire

trinsestine

jan penirtid accmrotriy.:

1099199

nie.

actual

Leno he band consi

No er denter tha

Cone of this Inchezation

no reported In 03-1(5)-722/07135-7

crilinicanal far Only.

wanted to

he lad sumoscale net arth polter artiélleend dicencard thollcarot

kidnapring:

thic SiA.

rte.

ve told hia tale wa vory interercing but mat

: CIA businese.

van clerve collid non an 25 rebraury dont to thai no. in on n

vlost no the to by ferentino polico erricanta

le preparce tals incredion for Alcocatnation day

In Mei or recont devilonaats ve castro nolther ropore chould!

so dioscainated.

to corolute jaz reoni du controls, bot renorto ric

ene luced as Photosures Noon 2 zad 3 (risregan the Atlanto report pubero,

•they sill be used for tituro serortina oo cancolled).

I: 2 IIDST CL IT OLDÚSO

4.5)

---

## Page 122

ATL-39-74

20 February 100%

So. In the scentime thoR a lurphy slanuming chuo up to occuny hu

tino utter po rebrunry shen he colled to cry lie had roco cemnitivo.

information of defintte intrrent to Clhe Wich told no cosid not er

antonio office the follo ing duy due to a jack or tronoportation. he

eata he mult eno to mur nifier.

Do relistently perord.

inte Mie

morning of ap mebruary he come to our office and presented us fith the

Infantion in Rostsire in.

h fough draftauche toys will be naved in

care lt 1n necderat a luter into).

sit on tha

agengerint lie de possible interest. before leaving

l enrch 197%e

sint eponrently huppened (and thie in blu otory)

493g:

Inen it

wan. legined tes farthy had hech hidnaped,

Chief John Intrn

or the Aunto Polion Depart nt calloo

Von Cleve renucating his engletence, no oned ten Cleave to

•core to headsuntero rud i siarich boilotont Chief Millins

beliere thio 1o the correct none) mn the burghy idanppine?

Van Cleave apparently empersed concern to the

Acolntant Chicf that prominene cobers of Choa Colo Comany

residing in the Atlanto mes eight he urgets for the care

Tho Acolstant Chief porced ond vent along with Ven

cleave notifyine, byrone, Cole sirloinlo;

d. :

Ynn Cleave had not cleared this action

th hio

lenediate supericor at the Cost Colu Company,

Apparently the shoe collo here sade vory late in the

evering

hen the tarphy Lanming vas resolved; Von Cleev

no, colled in by he bois to accoint for his netions.

aparently has not boon nule to lustlty the callo ond this

di7l be discanoe et the mecting an

In surnest this

ray bo his. lont official sation for the cose Cola Congango.

8 P. LUTHET CL MR 0:0550

S.0i

4,51

---

## Page 123

SE

N1-8-74

Was receivine the ma sebrary dork coll fron 038, ve sve

exceed sith craries ignce and so ferry of the pite lich tro

tatar ith ven Closes ond hia cacrottons. Mirry confined thit

Van Cleave had Moosed the internatim contalusa 1a Inclecura 1o. 4 to

the 50Te

Perry hid a few other change to pay ebostavon CIcove thit

prebobis do not noco to be repected lu tilo recrudus

8. Concerntos the future, ve latem to bo hurd to rench len

Veo Cicero callo, 11 nesckcary, talk to big on tho 1h033 o fey tirea

to see if ho reto tho focas then de all fallo sizly toll lin to have

been fald to slay sut of thin brained.

Mintier.

(an staird)

12 LUDIT CI. BY OICETO

4.5%

---

## Page 124

oss

SECRET

ATL-6-73

14: January 1479

CANOUN YOR NICORD

John Ki Poterson

Ablanca lootdent Office

Responce to Call-in to Arcicy Headquartero/Initial Cont

ace (relophono)

with Johd vaniel Villacoon, Carrollton: Ceorzio

On Talemary 1975 Albert So Coleman of Cha Washtryton Flolde

offico calledigo to paco on inforration biat le lad Juet baco siven by

Tood Lenduarteru, renorüing a enly recelyud ly the Agency

duty officer on dou Yearlo Eva Cron one John untol Williation of

Carrollton. UaorrLos

Willlanion centified ovalf as a dechodtot

mintotor and vuve kia audrega da souta i2,

or 3546, Corrolicon,:

CoorBla, Phone: (404) 954-0463.

2.

In bits enll to Arcacy leadguarters, Villacoon oold thae ha had a

friond ho had Inforcation on the Irperalis overturow of a foralza 1ov0rd

ment.

The informacion toraxded allural snipient of ane fron the us to

tho foruton country. willinoon said chat his Criend had wanted to cry to

poll tho inferation to tho foruiry country concernad but thut then tho

friand told Willlasson about it Wallingon prevalled on lua to lot bia

(W11llarnoo) bring it so tho ctteution of the proper covarnent argacy,

resulting in hio call to our luniquartoro on lios years tve.

asked chat nosoue fron the Aublicy in pus du contact wich hle.

3:

O the attorioon of 7 Junuary 1075, neret vertfytig chroud tae.

phone operator that lillianson wan blated to the Carcollton drea (ro

actually lives at scopville, Gnorslu, on true koad, but thia icopvilla

phone aro honuled undey the carrolicon exclause) no callou blo ruser.

va tad a tet it a man tor, but the beat good vent voy area

axcept on Saturdaya ction

lo were cold

stuce lie was not to be et hone opell after sril, a

called him

frow/our on hogs that cons evantug.

W11/annon sacmad to bo expactins our enil alchoush va had not

Identified gurselvan during the crriler call.

ile gave slossontially the

one intoriacion furntanoù during his den Yenr's ivo call. la aaid that

tha spiese about iriou ba called loà 'forger parishioner and lives in cha

Carrolltón aran.".

le proferred not to provis us vich the irlend's naso

the Inforantion, howevur that which ve vore rble to

asceriali--boundos on tie up-and-up, as far on ric. Hilltaron'o pare in 1e

vas concened, for leacenad to la a alncere and voll Intentioned Undivid.

¡un ve triod to at laast leum the rana of che foreiga county

Involved, Willison sall chac his Erfond vould cot givo bia that

Intoration.

4,51

E 2 IMPORT FLAY 010650

Jibricl

---

## Page 125

SECRET

-?.

ATL-4-75

14 January 1973

"a kind of a high-linaico ron trolved to

sectios ap corporations," Who often travels abroad, Lad beca appro

hed

by sonsone

locally,

1.0oo to the corrobltonicot Allesto ares

(Cartolitua Le about 40 ullos woot of Melants).

The iriend was aid to

bo "a good felead. a relthilo man, a collere craduaco. an carablus

man 1o the cortunity

Accordine to Willtrason, the intradeng

approached becouso of tha naturo of lin work to portora sono sort ot

tank for cuo reup. ond ho knod chat comming vas trona

Tie alread

then learned all lia could about the placed oneration and eventslig

tnlked with Willtanton about It.

gun-rutalas operacion lied beeu poing on for acont a your.

6. At one polat utillancon said that his irfend kold bie uSe

"the peoplo savolvou in cus ching von'e accitage co vill hea te

friond) and ho knova that to'o goins co have to leave thin part of tha

country woon le conce to lisht.

Wiltesson, toid us:

I toal lite i've

got thin suo life in my landa aul I don't hant co do mycuing is

Jeopardiza nio life, becanoo I knos hia and his tonily and 311.

Hillaron nunnested chac vo meet no chlord to the Cene coa duen eeel

reokaurant on I-20, near Six Ilays Ovor Georila, weat of Ablmate,

and

he

and that cha two of chra hui altpady talkes of til as a 200.

meting place..

He cold williaison tot ve ould bo Blad to seat sirk:

is trend buz firat wo would like fornia triond to sive us a chid so

thật wo nay cal vith bia. Wa gave our office pione ruber to

Walla son. no of chu wriclugot tila memorandon, we unve had to erel.

7. Fros tha informacion that Hilitarion provided, e.8,

location

of poople trired, an atranpt to acut with an agency rentencetativo

(to possluly

not up involvad merely by agnociation), we believe tunt sauch

of tho aubstance of the mntter could be the sace ne chat which sag

reported fron chla offico to oss no rolated by Stephen Vas Cicaus

recardias Kirch Verbeli,

(See AIL-39-74, 2iN Echruary 1974;

Maneno of Contacto wits Stopica Von Elenvo: A0-53-7 9 Sorts 197k

Scepben

van Cleave.)

Mirch herbull' a operation,

whfch has beer

doncribed Locally an a nachino-sun factory," lo locatal at Poider Springo.

Georita, noour ton llen nortin of cho I-20 copo aod suordlotal. At say

rato, ye. Hilliarson'o Erlead has been gives the opportunizy to contact

and so ara aunitlog bio call.

JOIN &. PETERSON

office of Chial, DED

POSS

Services

4,51

& 2 INDET CL BY 010639

SECRE

---

## Page 126

Coralor

в).

i (3)

12-79-00

Hey 8 11 23 21174

CONXIDENTIAL SISASZ SAE 74 STAFF

CITE DOD/ANONE 12194

DC 0/

ATTV:

SUPPORT BEANCIOS OUT A 18. 20 14

STEVER VAN GLEANER INTELLIOGNCE SERVICES,

ATLANTAS

GONG IA

REF? CHANT/MENNESSEY TELLSON, &S FLESUANY,

SHAE

SUSJECT

L. DUELIG THE AFTERNOR OF EAT AS ONE REGIVED 1

TELEPHONE CALL FROM ANSELNO DLLECURGS

FLORIDA, CA CONTACT OF THE MISE FILLO OEFICE WHO ADVICES US

THAT AN ACCUAINTANCE OF HIS IN ATLAUTA, GEORGLE, STEVEN VAN CLEAVE,

WAITEO TO SPEAN WITH US LA CONNSOTTOS MITH INTELLIONCE MATTERS

CONCORNTEG LATIN AMERICA.

ZE TOLO MOISORD THAT WAS CLEAVE

SCULE CONTACT CUR OFFICE, AN ATLANTAS LOREVER, ALLIEGRO SAID

THAT VA: CLEAVE DIDN'T WANT TO DEAL WITH

HE VANTO: TO SPEAN UITY A CIA OFFICER IN TÌM SUSTHCSS OF INTEL-

LOENCE COLLECTION, ME YOLA ALLERO THAT OU

OFFICE

HAS. THE SAME STATURE AS THE NAME FIELD OFFICE,

AND THAT HE SHOULD

ENGE VAL CLEAVE TO CONTACT CUA REPRESENTATIVE Li

ALLIEGRO

LOU1SS°8, ACCEPT THIS RESPONSE ON QUE PART AND LSISTED THAT WE AT

LEAST HEAR WHAT VAL CLEAVE DAD IO SSY FINALLY. "E MONGED TO

ACCEPT A CALL FROG VAN CLEAVE SO THAT DE COULE TELL HIM TO COSTACT

REPRESENTATIVE.

4.51

---

## Page 127

RAGE 2 DED/MIAMI 12A9A COMFIDENTIAL

VAN CLEAVE CALLED US AT HIS EXPCHOL PHO! ATLANTA ALOUT

FIVE MUUTES LATER:

WE ADVISED HIM AS THE OUTSET THAT 5F

SHOULD SHERE HITAL

I: THE ATLANTA BESIORAT OFFICE

AT HIS EMALLEST CONVENISICE.

VE EXPLAISD THAT OUE VORK FORGE

IS DIVICEO GSOGPAPMICALLY RATHER THAN FUNCTIONALLY, END THAT

STICE ME LIVES I ATLANTA, HE MUST DEAL WITH THE

VE.

POOVIDED HIM WITH THE TELEPHONE NUMER FOR TIE

NO ISGICATED INAT NE WOULD CONTACT

TIE SAME DAY:

CALLES

TO ADVISEMIN DE LAB/CLEAVE'S INTENTION TO

CONTACT WIN. WE LATER LEANGE FROM

a0th

AND. VAN. CLEVE

THẠT THE CONTACT VAS MADE.

3.

te rataco that ve vote neve we rurice ecareer with

VA: CLEAVE.

HOWEVER, HE,

MORE MISTANSA.

VAN CESAVE PLACED AT

LEAST THO MONE TELEPHONE CALES TO US FROM ATLANTA SAT VTS

EXPENSE), AND QUE SION BADE COUNTY,

EACH TIME HE

ADVISED HIM TO CALLI

FATEN THAN 65.

MIS RESPONSE ON

ILESE OCCASIONS VAS THAT VE ALREADY HAD OR INTENDED TO HOGF

→ JADVÍSED CUT THAT HE VANTEO TO NGER LS LAPORICO ALSC.

THE LOCAL DADE COUNTY CALL VAS MADE TO ADVISE US THAN VAN

CLEAVE WAS LN MIAMI IN THE COMPANY OF TÃO ARGENTIRE FOLIGE

OFFICIALS, SHON WE COLLO DEERIEF IF ME SO DESINES. DE AGAIN

TÓLD NIA THAT HE COULD REPORT TO

4.51

---

## Page 128

RAGE 3 DOP/ARAN EASA CONFIDENTIAL

-WAS CLEAVE TOLD US DUSING CHE OF THE AFORENENTIONED

CONVERSATIONS THAT KE IS ACGLENTED WITH MITCHELL VEREIL

A12790

FOLDER SELIGS, GEORGIA, MUD THAT WE HAD BEEN ME PRESCUIED

INTO TAXINO WERCELL TO ARSESTILA CITH KLA TILATE JANUARY

1974 EY OFFICILS IN THE COCA COLA CORANE CORAL GAELS A164

FLORIDA, WITH CHICH VAN CLEAVE PAD COM NAS A CORSELELAG

CONTRACT IN CONNECTIC" WITH COCA COLD'S SECURITY SYSTEM IN

ARGENTINA. VAN CLEAT

ADVISE US THAI BE HEVER AGALD WOULD

NAVE ANYTHIRO TO DO WIT!! VERDELL RECAGEE THE LATTER MAD ACTED

SO BADLY DURING THIS TRIP.

HE TOLD US THAT WORDELL MAN

CONMENTED TO ARGENTINE CFFICIAL

& THAT ME CHEROELL 465 S025-

HOW CONNECTED WITH THE CENTRAL

INTELLIGEECE. AGZUCY, AND BY

A FIRST MME GASIS STRE ILL' CONEY, ECT. VAN CLEAVE TOLD

ÜS THAT INTERS HAD LECCRCRATED TO SUCHA DESECE THAT HE

RETURNED TO THE US ALCHOUR SERGELL. COUS

MEMORY IS A EIT

FUZZY DU THE CONTENTS OS TILLS RISCUSSION, PUT WE RECALL

SOMETING TO THE EFFECE TAG VEPDELL AS INORDER MITY CRISO

WOMEN, ANN

•SONG, AND VAS CLEAVE WAS AFTAID THAT HORSELL MICHT

BE ARROÓTED EY ARGENTINE POLICE LEFORE IT WAS GUSTA

VA:

CLEAVE TOLD US THAT ME PENSORALLY NEVLA VAS SO LCH AS

IMPLIED A RELATIOSOHIP YITH INE AGZACY TO ROY CUISIOSR.

4.5%

---

## Page 129

PAI

A DOD/MIAMI 12A9A CONFUDENTIAL

5 .

VLTHOUGH WE FAVE NOT NOT VAN CLEAUS IN PERSON, BASED

UPON OUR TELETPONE CONVERSATIONS WITE ALM HE APPEARED TO HE

AT INTELLIGEHT

CANOE PROVIDE A FORE DETAILED ACCOLNE OF OUR CONCRSATIONS

WITH VAN CLEAVE, CUT AS WE MENTIONED IN ROPCNENCED TELECON

WE DID NOT CARE NOTES DUANS DE CUANCAGATIONS MOR DID WO

FESI IT NECESSARY AT THE TIME

TOURITE A NENORANRUS FOR THE

MECORD SINCE VE BELIEVED MAT IT WAS A SCANAL, ALOSIT CONFLSY,

POPERAL TO ANOTHER DOU OPENCE. E & SAPOLT CLY 1365E

COUFIDENTIAL

4.51

---

## Page 130

SEGREI

F12.78-00

dises, Personal Cecurity Liviason, co

2a ly 100g

Direets, Dacectie Contact Corvice

(Fuses, Mersees biviolos)

rise it, latechl to an Iscal OvI Inutry to Des liant Office for

• Inferation Concurate

7O5Y-6%.

IT-s 2041000143

coming asleet,

15 formaid for your ascort on paoulble

2.

¿nabor 1:

in: munctions vertali ker

O tito rocorvalza choin bo

.. 2733.

Sisterit

Enclosure: he stated Reme

Visore: erw

4.51

SEGRET

---

## Page 131

AX

RUT

SECRET

DesS, Phons prola Offico

i races:

CoDE, DescElLa Contast Ceratoo (dervicca Dirtelos)

8124-006-09

thare dot for cho

ASrantion 19y27

in vee recities

succution main by your clance thus ont euroce son sogeand cheats

rificial cracy chancelo in pila

macintel 1r coa vul soriert

üterü dractly to tas

Doors Geart.

Tai!

More lis uleless obicer, riter sion to

190919

SEGUILI

Vironx: Cr

1. 5%

SECUST

---

## Page 132

SECHET

-F- 13-20

ANTW

Durcutor, Dosentle Contact Service

:033

Chief, Mamt Field Ortico

Local OST Inquiry Reganling Daforestion on Mitchol!

L. Herboll

1) My 10N

NI-1-604-69

die.

on 15 May 1905

Onceial four Deve Plounny loan Ost rearesentativo

WAs, visited the lent old orriec

liste reparuint Mitchell Do vertell no abracly 1o undercotis a socurity

casance check as the remat of zaccondly Volue coployca by a comor

with a coverment contract.

2. Nervoll woo on unsolieftod contess of this office vegfonic in

1959 aid he reachel pock notortex in bore bor 2957 o0 eccoule or die

involvement in the Rolairo Municrrer

rist in connection vich the deitive

Isition Investon.

Joke Orcaney, Out

nas in Mical at tho time to oversee

¡yeney lasercito:

3.

Ploumen in contactiu, outsr la moanicon: agencies Locally

Inclullne the 13 Autornason Office soschos racired an indication tot CIA

Jail Inforation on verbell; thus Moing's virit to the llan tient Crile.

to It. van Indicused to Plecon, to le taore porsonally cy sonia

seabers of tito strif, chat un moer ci tenson end that on occasion in

rud reported incolicited inforantion. It mas canciled, norever, that

Ploicon dircot lito senat orcicaliy through channella Ost'a agency

lutcon ofileor to lechlagton:

Ilo 15 for baciroin and 1a being comanded ei

the suristion

of Local CIA, Cocurity.

Frogan: pay

SECHET

4.51

---

