# 104-10308-10298

## Page 1

1104-10308-10298

FROM:

1P/ INOEX.

REQUESTER

IP/FILES

REQUESTER

IP/RMS

1X1. 4129

s,: 1pT.

TUBE

O Ta 5

DT-.6

ROOM

184003.

GC5 2

GA - 20

SECRET

1111-1+9

301129

Г!Н. ;

4111

ITE

. INDEX SEARCH AM O1 CONSOLIDATION -REQUEST

IP/FI CONTROL NO.

1? 1901:1 11 1Y 004111

INITIALS

DATE

Tit

NO. OF REFERENCES ORDERED

REQUESTER'S

NOTES

THIS REQUEST REFERS TO

(Doc.

Ref.)

SEARCH INSTRUCTIONS (TO IP/IN)

ist.

SURNAME

CORTES

SPELLING VARLAIIONS TO BE SEARCHED

AKA. ALIASES

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

RESULTS OF IP/ INDEX SEARCH

NO RECORDS IDENTIFIABLE WITH SUBJECT

SURNAME NOT FOUND IN FILES

INDEX RECORDS ATTACHED

THERE ARE

RECORDS OF WHICH

ARE

184003

SEARCH: CHASE MAY BE A VOLUME SURE LOT

REQUEST NO./ DATE/TIME

197o4-00l0: 30

50 PM 362

SUBJECT OF INDEX SEARCH

GIVEN NAMES

Ramir.

201-

OTHER AGENTS.

"PION! YING DATA (Occupation, CP membership. I.S.

CITIZENSHIP

RESIDENCE

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

THERE ARE OTHER INDICES THAT YOU SHOULD CONSIDER.

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR CHECKLIST OF OTHER

INDICES AND

201 CONSOLIDATION INSTRUCTIONS.

TO ORDER DOCUMENTS

1. REVICW INDEX RECONDS.

2. DRAW GREEN DIAGONAL LINE ACROSS ITEMS YOU DO

NOT WANT.

3. FORWARD TO IP/FILES.

TO EDIT THE INDEX RECORDS

AFTER RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS, EDIT THE INDEX RECORD

ACCORDING TO DOI 70-19.

TO DESTROY INDEX RECORD: MARK THE INDEX RECORD WITH

A GREEN D. AND CITE THE REASON.

2. TO MAKE CORRECTIONS/ADDITIONS: ENTER THE CHANGES ON

THE INDEX

3.

FORWARD

RECORD IN GREEN INK.

TO IP/RMS VIA YOUR RECORDS OFFICER

011229

201 CONSOLIDATION

INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

SIDE.

SECRET

E-Z, IMPDET CL. BY: 007022 14-8-98)

Уж

---

## Page 2

13-00000

201 CONS

SECRET

IDATION INSTRUCTIONS (See DOI 70-

1.

2.

IF SUBJECT HAS A 201 FILE, SEND THIS FORM TO IP/RMS WITH THE INDEX RECORDS

MARKED IN GREEN TO REFLECT THE CONSOLIDATION ACTION TAKEN.

should then be placed in the 201, by the Researcher).

(Documents

WHEN SUBJECT HAS NO 201*FILE.

BUT MEETS THE REQUIREMENT FOR OPENING A 201

FILE. SEND THIS FORM TO IP/RMS WITH:

A. A COMPLETED FORM 831.

в.

ALL PERTINENT DOCUMENTS.

ExTRACTS.

AND PROPERLY EDITED RECORDS FOR

CONSOLIDATION OF THE FILE BY 1P/RMS.

SIGNATURE OF. RECORDS OFFICER

DATE

CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES: REQUESTER SHOULD ALSO CONSIDER TRACING THE FOLLOWING SOURCES WHICH ARE NOT

SEARCHED BY IP/INDEX

( SEE NAME TRACE

HANDBOOK).

DATE

SOURCE

REQUESTED

RECÊTEED

SOURCE

DATE

REQUESTED

DATE

RECEIVED

mexi-

DO AREA DESKS

IP/ARCHIVES

COMINT NAME CHECK

SB BIOGRAPHICS BRANCH

TRAVEL PROGRAMS

15- hig fifx-my

NAME OF BEARER FILE/OTS

CIA APPLICANTS FILE/OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

SPECIAL

ACTIVITIES GROUP-SS/IL (WFTU)

COVER AND COMMERCIAL STAFF

START

RESERVE OFFICERS FILE

INTERAGENCY SOURCE REG.

SPATIANG.

CAPTURED GERMAN DOCUMENTS

CENTRAL REFERENCE SERVICE

CIA LIBRARY

OFFICE OF SECURITY

OFFICE OF MEDICAL SERVICES

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION

EIG PROGRAM

WH SUBVERSIVÉS PROGRAM

DEPARTMENT OF. COMMERCE

DEFENSE CENTRAL INDEX

CENTRAL REGISTRY • EUROPE

FBI

1 & NS

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

SECRET SERVICE

DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCY

Лед

REMARKS

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

corr, raia (amem (No 201 file)

LA/Mex De

TI:R:1/500, 033 Papere S MAsa s and noled 18 Chere ware e all to canolo.

2'F'ab 62

coll Parte dell bite thege duch corren lo connollan louk.

altrae he non suby in Staler.

hove hun deele ared SAl, Welß donn not lelleon 11.a

Ionier

Inp liquip co)

sinog mue cere aines le complelalo

avorythinr.

offiro lo

wntch Linm.

cloning of Tranocontinentnl,

S.A.

Cloatnp

chosed 1 Feb,

On 26 don IN iA'WZ antd Ito busineenir cing.

1241-6203

C5-3/503,249

16 Feb. 62

Subj, pres of Transcontinental, told Trnocto ": "Ala lirreln,

Transcontinental on 7 Feb that Cuhan accusatlong that trenrconttental we

chipping reconstructed of used parto instend of new narts were caloe.

sald they had proof fr lext Customs tremure wey rest lont import duele ioll

not patd for used parte.

lo decrive the rihann,

the Cubana they were malor shareholdere in a Canadian firm.

Subf told 'Tit ininha in

LINTHE. R.TEIVOY

H1M-6220

27

Feb

62

CS-3/503,096

2. Kob 1962 Loronzo 1, Saudlers, vice-prosident of Traigcontlertal, S.l.,

Mex firm which has been involved in traentipent of pado trunta?

was discusing dissolution si corgany w/Sulle urrg of Mangcontinental.

SAUMbrE told CORTES ho was tria: to sell notra valund e €20, 11?

to someone in

Oklahoma City,

to whom he was niferir, : direount.

CCRTES, Ramon (Puntostro)

FRE'A

THE DAPARTMNNT DE AYATR,

REF

a iDass? Despatcio: 1168,

27, 312

+& a

For TEpe.

Use Only

TH8

нива.

A Aris

5

NINT

st=-

Una set

11.1

BUBJECT:

Manon 10.1?c% bur prostro,

1l,•

1:11.,8€

manution di lin

Mesun torrini

151:120.19

Tha

was effected be notarinl net io.

ilr.

solistry

(copy onelosed).

official liquidator 1s Ilc.

Vazque. 2,

and decislor to

boaril on Januar, 22, 1962.

fornit

:14J6-499007

1.421%

CORTET, Ramon (Rienrratro)

Also dissolved was gia.

act no.

8718 of January

Ipulsore ionicina by

s1: 1lar notarial

I2, 1902 reristered

reflestiac

to dissolve.

a weeting of Decester 14,

on debruery %, 1902,

Wien decision

was talton

Company

and left no assets.

farent compaly,

cissolved,

described in the docu.ent.of

dissolutio and considerable

untinished business.

Lic.

begin efforts

Ho

Stateg

orta da vaia nia ven tho orion

1952 17 order to

Cuba

and

Intention di trinatin:

lutatimar

Indicated that the

all traie relations with

The

diagolution

os

wES

the tw:

tr:l1.y

First step.

dadltinnlly,

calandos

to tho United Statos the U.ü,-orlil1

Lic. Cortea ins ofirroi

Nexico.

to

return

At Inst count

hold under court

this arounted to 39 casen o!

19.112 719% 11

1ulo0tlv: part:

order in coxico Clty and

the lexico City airport under custoris bond.

an adlitinial sit casca in

A third gesture

of

Francial: supuort for

tio

ecoperation be Cortee s loc: ils

Cuban refugces 11

Si TAilA, Prasident of

T18

1100g

liouse

of

Cuban refugeos 1: cico ilEy, ,

CCitES, Ramon (Muenrentro)

lack 81s

111000/101.

The finit der in in with per quel 1.

erminal and/ar

administralivo

porties wha west

marinal

1hr.

acheme .

Commeror.

with the

divore inn

In tirer

111101

witt i rittterl

criminial

temportry

well ad it lega

which denicil

ROAEN9AEHMAAE S1.0977H03'19

participating

direelly "s

in tirrotly,

three

in phy

United Stales

Iser Sapplement Ne.

1?, Clai).

Perenly

oprererol do 1010:/0008: 1lsit

controter Dotta Sleed

mnitoliny;"

bat line:

will n vine te enterint

1? t

winn

Pril

8' 69992151

LE AMOM.14.48.

me: merite do netel

tro ristre

11is

lee.. tello. 16199101011099. 018

118::

Nos del 1l9l, Aparetirdo

frontat

Alite do. Pelos.

deo Maxire

15,s10e-88-816°

Marxis" ti.

OCAMEST

6 14, 20 4 16i010s 1le

LIMITEU NEFIGLAL

USL

302. 07,

---

## Page 4

13-00000

A- 381 i

LIMITED OFFICIAL U

Ameliassy MEXICO, D.F.

F. 65A4

19A9

10

31:

t•. Marsales

#197

Fte 23

FROM

Department of state

SUBJECT:

RAMON CORTE::

Fali19889g Y-945

19:605 and

communications;

previons

Dc/der Investinione Division

CiFt"

23-773

EACON FROM CONNEC

The linbanages allent ion is

donal diversins "

u.s.

voluminents

A 4s PM °56

CORTEZ, Ranon (Buenrostro)

Soo Amanbo, lax C; dereram to. A212, 12 Jan 42

Deay. lo. 910, 79 Jan 62 - Staterant

- Said or Bea: 50 Via, a tige intances

w/Sulif

CCATES, Raren (Fuenrostro)

FOREICN SERVICE DESPATCH

1 18 118/6156,

FROM : hambassy, lexico

1200

• НіН, ВаРАНИМИИ ВР КлАТР

REF

Jun. 5, 1902

I':"?

imbassy D-1457, 1ry 91, 1952

ac Only

924-12.

6-6

SUEJECT:

M307E

ipri

0 8558 Pc6 3,

or.rr

Mast redn

orricials

ST .

Donald illite, attor ay

ion totel,

19 997

i":;

AO11311'D

5, 3.1

Tr 0205.9111,

810n35y June 1,,

1802 to diumiss tho

communist ana that agent to tado not for tone

operato

Ratini:

fully with United dales Govern end offlerls luvoall-

hlo case aad stated further his in

Lind. clr.noney or

immalty could lo provided ble, dartra la reluen lor ile coopya

to

take

iro Carroll due bold that lie dinary tas tot 10c1 poision

":10al"

tr.

lils client was considera vory

ultin he concernin lie.

+ 63.

"ince

Texas

Carroll contact the or dee of the Valted utates attorney

CENT

It wins sucrestod thit

processing Lic.

with the

cortes's

Burcau of

case or discuss the

ntter direct

partent

of

Commerce In ishingion.

International torrans of the inited States Do-

It

was

als good faith bj

also sunnested to i:

• documents

proyidin" the United

Carroll that Lic. Cortez shor

exico.

Do not ten lar coicer dar

states Corerant ilth

Cuiset purcinsins

part plajed

martleuine laterent ma itorntlo, conconlir the

e tilods In

Tap Equirent coral

t 91317 07 1834-115

LoS Angeles,

netlultles ip offlelals of the

Materials and iquin ent corny of loarang

Calliorala and the a erican

The imbansy

past history of

on: 1o 1110:1913 concerains tir cintacter

Ile. corles.

te has pronly aurouched the

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CORTES, Ramon (Fuenrastro)

•'FROM po AnimbaBay, MIXICO, D, F.

DATE: Apell

-1966

RE.F

Hason Cortez

nopartment 's A, Sis1 and A-lalle

EXCON FON CONMERCE

In vles of thes

antagonal des selodode list tenie transadead tiran luen

Contes, Dinamoetro,

dinrenal. maner threrach vertonn esadle aral boattk la

Allisere munnos violado moledoo lee correnuden de ira Corles anul cones lilm bo

unano argumrabine will Clie: Pabanny,

Though the abovo ericoe Les babanny lau teno alela los cont'irm

that Conatrucolónua Malalicon Induntriuley de Mexles i. A.

at the

actroas given

the flrnt Alreran under reforence,

waabs

organizod

on Ootober 16, 196k with an authorized capital of 250,000 pesos,

the managere

that

and prinoipala of the tira

are Ranoa Cortez and Rogelio

and that the company enjoya a good comnorcial and credit

All efforta to ascertain the nanes of uny Amerioan firms with

which Sr.. Cortes or hía fira do busineas have had a negativo result.

CORTES, Ramen (Buentustro)

Thla does not,

hovever, necesarily establiah that he has not had such

business relations.

It the Department withes, the Dabanay will Interview Br.

Corto%

and carry

out the balance of the instructiona cortained in A-34l 1a such

a lay as to atteupt to miniaire uny adverse reaction on his part.

Por trA AmbassadorA

Cor

olal Attaché

*

CCAT35, Ramon (unroetro)

lamo' 6 19

lle e infrari that 1,

of tlie denial

order dn opraction with tin importntien of Shrreg cojer mirime moi

rome other itame fren the l's.

"he Enhogay is romented iS

09- 1110'r

"...:

ave ante and delivered aince 1aè ermror1ten

for

Sr.

Cortez' dccount or frit!

Cortez should ho nipriame of the loral reen-ren

tha denial order

f0.rge91.lierd.fn r99.89r.05r

Section 382.11(e) CES.

Corter.

A copy of inft

The axiatenea of the toxican firm

Cortoz la nanocintre uith la ahe li le reportainoi .

or Mon, commercail entitioe with wilch Era fratee de at erament agregados, leilo

Istowlen he identifind ond hia nerocintien de rully inmerito".

Sith4

Anid SalDito that, wio

mt flynros

11,n

sit:

00?00 n110044 191 19 411

enal lute

1. 0S.

there ovent unaly.

For other rpta're Subj and Iranscontinental SaAa, State laguad following:

mamb, Maro, Desp, 686, dated 23 jan 62: Dun ; Bradstreet, Rpt on Pranaeuntinontnl,ü.A.

State

A-lil, dated

24 Jul 62,

un Arbimb,liarda Cffor of Eransontirantal, 5.1.

recurting sierican terchnnudse

Aminb, Nexo, A-84, dated 20 Jul l2: Diusclution of Transcontiranbal, jd.

Dopt.of 3tate,

A-103,

Aminb, HexC, daled 27 June 1952,

Animb, l'exG, Desp. 1569,

22 Jurm

62,

difer of TranseuntInental. gol.

American l'orchanlisa.

Aminb, Pero, Desp.

il61,

20 l'ar R2,

Transcontinental, S.A, and felaled l'artiea lo Cuban

14808101 ACT1YA1.C5+

Deptiof State Instruction, No. CW-7210, 13 MAr 62, En Amina ilexü, re TA: "SCHLINGITAL, iA

AmEmb:exO, Desp, 1101, 7 Mar 1262, Prepreed Comilianco "rocenularo Marinat Comanda

Impulsora Mexicana, 3,A.

AmimUMasE, A-410, 21 Sep 62, IBM de Vexion, S01o3 99.005t el Lico arn Guitte enristres

---

## Page 6

13-00000

RAmen

(menrontrn)

hla oronalantlen wan pourd wCopg

h'a mustan of allegiance.

Furthar developenanta. l1l le raceter! an den er try cons.

for fin Artiar nir't

.*-

CORTes, Ramon (Muenraatro)

*

Entan y hachunn Bie afirren to mile renir te.

Ale let to 1999. Mare. 10 d 119900 1009

remited

in administration pur Indiese de' den arainat him.

American wife and two American children

5T8T08. he

Gortan may lin!

micht be of une to linited Staton arencies and offlelala seriteral the neurs

til lt-apt i..

---

## Page 7

13-00000

LA,

no "Nese that wet?

apatis li praz, lesson (res.)

denate arm strict, an baa vallas rouser, a 1 er co

2 1337397

Cortia Tuancostro, Mamon

transloat ef Tranngoretrontal, doriena fire trangelpedne made to cute, fritons aro

20? 010,

ahiryal are reconstructoi or isol intlon of now.

us ends lenselo

neirore lo saletion dis dilans 1n4

narisations arr

Guiles with

parla and In Lin

Gralene continue their

inventigul Lon,.

te company in Cana la.

(05. 2/593, 219, 6 8908.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

ii

6,688

rEwi

• Лі А.

LOSE CASeBBER:

rijr: A

134124

VE

: Ew!;

SUSA

TULA

HONZALRL FINE:!':

JOSE

EMS AMORA

GMS FAMIN

5115F01214

HOURIGUEZ

JOSE LUIS

PODFIGUEZ

GRESTE

FILANTO

QUIZ ANGEL

H160

TENUELIA ENMIGUE

JAZQUEL

IDELFONGO

EFNESTO

HE MIAHID

:r.

rameered partita

17100?

LUCA

!'FA

rUFA

EIRE

CAN

CAN

CUBA

EIRE

CUEA

18le34 iose filci.la

QUEA

LUSA

ordered citia

QUEA

CUBA

FUSA

GUeA

QUEA

LUEa

"EX

MEX

QUEA

CUJEA

CHEA

CUEA

CULA

904

192A

CURA

SUSA

LUCA

- -.

-r-; - :

runn

110A

LUCA

ried

: TH

"Tr;

..T

" 1o

0826

.""

MFS.

N- A...-1:

F6;16632

1148543

614f161

CORTEDON DERMANDEY

HASSUM

19 All DA!

---

