A Aet
ye WSC |
Chief of Station, JMWAVE 4: SSC a

[feceacr Operational /TYPIC/HHSPAWN/AMOT ‘
° Directorship, Finances and Activities of the Cuban Exile Newspaper |
Mundo Americano, Published in New York

s

1.. The following information.on the Cuban exile news~
paper Mundo Americano, published in. New York, was submitted as]
the AHWOTs In EE-4463 of 16 November 1965, The information i a
O Novemb AMOT source oe |

Investors

2 ne of the principal investors in the Mundo Americano
is Joso{LOPEZ Vilaboy (201-215815), who was President of the
Compania Cubana de Aviacion (Cubana Airlines) and, ower of the pa i"
newspaper Wanana in Cw From 1952 to 1958 LOPEZ wag a
henchman of ex-Cuban President Fulgencio BATISTA Zaldivar.
LOPEZ contributed, the sum of $40,000, however, it is believed
that these funds are not LOPEZ' own money since it is rumored
that he igs not in a good financial position at present.
Ro? aa

3. CHanuel' GARCIA sto (201-353892) and a group of
persons trysted by RolandoVHASFERRER Rojas (201-042669) and
Serafin RX PEREZ Carril (201-294538) contributed $75,000.c “4 Cle ee
These three persons currently have financial control of the t=
newspaper ,> 5 (otis

x 4. During September 1965, the newspaper suffered a
financial crisis and one of the persons who put up money at.
Ori ff
Attachments: 4 h,
: Photo of "Jimny" HW
Copy of AP cable HW
Mundo Americano version of cable HW L&
orial praising JOHNSON's actiop HW
Articles by Rolando MASFERRER Rojas attacking CIA HW
Hundo Americano attack on SOMOZA family HW

Ser ~ cr a oT “|
Distribution: ~ 0S Curl | pec 14 1965 |
a = WH/C w/atta 4S (1 cy. _- 3 Dec 1965 i

nu earons
{

DRE CARD .REPRODU

1 CROSS REFERENCE TO DGPATON GYRE WO HOUSER
‘ :



‘Dermaton france AAD Ru

CONTINUATION OF cH ;
DISPATCH : SECRET . URGA-24005

that time was an American. citizen named "Jimmy", who controls
the "bolita" game in Brooklyn, New York. A photograph of

+ | "Jimmy" ig..forwarded as Attachment No. 1. As this photograph
was romovad from the private files of the newspaper and source
could be traced through it, it is requested that it be given
careful handling in order not to compromise source,

va fe see Ace Cle Uae the Ghee Cede Bete EH (Weds Creag
5... The following persons are in charge of the newspaper's ~~ ]- ia
operations: -

General Manager: Ceferino R, PEREZ Carri {on 19 Septem-

? _ber 1965 replaced/Dy. Francisco *#CASADO_
Remedios, aka "Frank", who was que of

ia LOPEZ Vilaboy's tr yay see sk Sag

we ee bere Wve ghee
Editors: Jose LOPEZ Vilaboy {Director saraiies
Manuel GARCIA del Busto (Vice-President)

Executive Editor: Rolando masFipreg Rojas

, eo
Assistant Editor: Jose u. SpEREZ (one_o#<LOPEZ Vilaboy's
trusted men.ts Puerto Bic. Has not
been working for the newspaper since
i 19 September 1965.)
ks —

Advertising Director: Frank arte pe

_Internationa). Policy: “ armando@2¢RUZ CObo' (has stated
ie i ) he bia for KUBARK in Venezuela and -.
ae Peru.
be aie Jesus GONZALEZ Scarpetta”
o Luis E. WPOU Enriquez

& Local Policy: Juan Angel “#BRAS =
| Chiof of Statte Enrique’ @PI2zt de Porras (one of?
aed ¢ i ‘A's moj trusted men)
; >. Carlos Rene CABRERA Vazquez / | ¥
Social Nowsi. . Wilfredo /euORAN Beole
Sports: _ Ricardo GQUMENOCAL Boole + |
Shop (Pross) : Carlos DI AZ-VERSON Rodriguez *
Format: ark . Pedro HYANEZ (mombor-of tha New-York pn
i Executive of the MIRR,: connected with =
” : the purchase of armament for the MIRR) =
‘ . oo
Circulation: __+y' Fucundo Y8POMAl Soler (one of most - 3|
trusted mon<6f Eusebio MUJAL Barniol. o.
Leader in the Cuban Labor. dera= : e|
tjon_in Exile) Pa
F : eS
Photography: a Mario MZAYAS au a
i ba ee _ >. Rodolfo NADAL Tayafa , é

Most of the other persons on the payroll are linotypists
and typesetters who draw wages prescribed by the Union.
Sourco estimates that. there are 30. employees in addition to .
the Directors, - !

i 6, Offices of Mundo Americano: : te

a, Staff and Management: 701 7th Avo, at 47th Sty
Now York, N.Y. |

Phone: 757-8515


14-00000 .

—~-S6TRTANON OF eee) Griucseemtrererset
BIBPA

* SECRET

*  UFGA-24005

b. Printing Press: 76 Gerry St.
Brooklyn, N.Y.

ay Phones: -EV 7-4026
EV 7-4025

" Circulation and Opere.tional Costs of the Newspaper ;

9. The newspaper has a daily circulation of 23,000 to
25,000, There are plans’ to increase circulation to 40,000,
8. Each issue of the newspaper costs between $2,500 and
$3,000, The printing press is rented for $2,200 weekly, This
rental fee includes the cost of ink, paper and lead for the
linotypes. ae a

9, Until September 1965, Mundo Americano banked with
the Bankers Trust Company and the newspaper's ‘checks were
signed. by Ceferiho R. PEREZ Carril and Frank CASTRO, During
the financial crisis in September 1965, Mundo Americano
issued a check in payment of wages to the order of Amado
GARCIA drawn against the Bankers Trust Co, This check was
returned to GARCIA for insufficient funds, Since early
October 1965, payroli checks have been drawn against the
Banco de Ponce, 164 East 116 St., New York, N.¥. These checks
are signed by Ceferino R. PEREZ and Jose LOPEZ Vilaboy.

Ideology and Control of the Newspaper

10, Mundo Americano is completely under the control of
BATISTA orlented groups and its articles and editorials fol-
low the line dictated by these groups, The newspaper attacks
the U.S. Government, and especially the CIA, daily. Forwarded,
as Attachment.No, 2, is a copy of an AP cable, dated 25 October
1965, reporting a statement by the White House Press Chief
and J. Edgar Hoover that the news published in the New York
Herald Tribune stating that the President had authorized the

O gather intelligence abroad is not true. The Mundo
Americano “published a distorted version of the cable (see
K€tachment No. 3) and also an editorial praising President
Johnson's action against CIA (see Attachment No, 4).

11. Rolando MASFERRER Rojas writes a column in the
Mundo ‘Americano using the pen name "Policarpo Pineda", in
Which he frequently attacks CIA, Copies of MASFERRER‘s
column are attached as Attachment No. 5,

Blackmail i 7

12, On 26 October 1965, Mundo Americano published an
article entitled "Opposition to the Dynasty of the Somozas"
(see Attachment No. 6),' On 2 November 1965, another article
appeared on the front page of Mundo Americano reporting that
General SOMOZA was gravely i11 in @ Baltimore, Maryland,
hospital. According to conversations overheard by source,
after the appearance of these articles, the directors of the
newspaper, including Rolando MASFERRER, were summoned to the
Nicdraguag Embassy in Washington, D.C. At the meeting the
Ambassador, from Nicaragug pojntod out. that the news appearing
in the paper was false, An argument between the Ambassador
and MASFERRER cnsued and MASFERRER was thrown out of the meet-
ing. After that, o second meeting took place betwedn the
Nicaraguan Ambassador and the directors of the newspaper and
since the second meeting, the newspaper has. not attacked the
BOMOZAs, The directors of Mundo Americano have insinuated
that there has been ‘some financial arrangement.

2 pers
. = >
° . °



14-Q0000 . . -

— COitiNGATION
DISPATCH ~

Inside Struggles ‘

13. . When Mundo Americano was first published, Jose LOPEZ
Vilaboy had financial control of the newspaper. Currently,
however, control is in the hands of Rolando MASFERRER Rojas
and Ceferino R. PEREZ Carril. In Cuba, PEREZ Carri] campaigned
politically for BATISTA and ‘was a Cuban Army Captain during y
the BATISTA Regime. . 7

14. Since the newspaper was first published, it's policy
has been controlled by the group having financial control,
Although MASFERRER's and LOPEZ Vilaboy's groups both follow
the BATISTA line, LOPEZ is in favor of a soft line and MASFERRER °
igs in favor of a hard line’, attacking groups and persons with
which he does not agree, Since MASFERRER and PEREZ have
obtained control of the newspaper, it has constantly attacked
the U.S, Government and the CIA. LOPEZ is not in favor of
attacking the U.S, Government, the CIA or the Spanish Govern-
ment. MASFERRER, however, states that LOPEZ can do nothing
about it because he no longer controls the newspaper financially.
As a result of the recent shift in pewer, two of LOPEZ' men,
Frarfcisco CASADO Remedios and Jose BM. PEREZ, were oved
from thoir positions in Mundo Americano on 19 September 1965,

' 15, The following are Station file traces on persons
mentioned in this report: i

a. Amado GARCIA Torres: QRPLUTO candidate for
« labor training seminar, Dropped because of his youth
and inexperience (UFGA-17332, 26 August 1964).

b. Frank MALDONADO: Probably identical ‘with
Francisco MALDONADO Iglesias, WH CE cards indicate that
MALDONADO arrived in Guatemala from the Dominican Repub-
lic in August 1960 as‘an agent of TRUJILLO, and contacted
Cuban oxiles to try to set up the Movimiento Integracion
Nacional (MIN), an anti-Castro organization. Subject,
who was travelling without documents, was deported from
Guatemala to Miami, DBA-19283 of 14 August 1962 reported
that Subject, born circa 1928, residing Apt. 13-A, »
Olimpo Street, Santurce, Puerto Rico, advertising sales- ~
man, was anti-Castro and an unpaid informant of the
SIM (Military Intelligence Service).

+ ¢. Juan Angel BRAS: Subject may be identical with
Juan A, BRAS who appears on WH CB cards os residing 7
729 7th Ave., New York 19, N.¥., in February 1960 and ast
working at Falcon Bron, Co., 101 Maiden Lane, New York, \
according to information of 10 October 1960, According
to the card, BRAS, a U.S, citizen, is considered by
joseph MIRANDA as a top levol consultant to the FRD
Democratic Revolutionary Front) and someone worth cul-
tivating by the Agency. le has been active in Cuban
affairs since 1932 and was director of public relations
s and radio for the 26 of July Movement in New York, as
it well os adviser to Harold Janis, Director of Special
x Events Voice of America from?1942 to 1948. ry

TONS

PRODueT;

EPRO

d, Enrique PIZZI de Porras is probably identical
with Honrique PIZZI de Poreas of 1139 Ridgewood Road,
West Palm Beach, who is in correspondence with former
President BATISTA who is now residing in Madeira, iz
(OPL-719, 13 November 1959.) ta

Le ©. Carlos Renc”CABRERA Vazquez: Formér owner
and director in Cuba of Radio Aeropuerto and Radio Voz
news programs now inter venode Now 1h New York working

Fae TT A A Mba 8 bn Renn CAMMONOR RTT



TunGaincaTION

SECRET

DaPATGH DrEADOL AND EER
UFGA-24005

CONTINUATION 07
"BISPAYCH = °

Report of 8 August 1962). According to a card dated
15 December 1962, Subject was inducted into the U.S.
Army. : 1

e. Carlos DIAZ-VERSON Rodriguez, born 21 February
1914 in Havana, is a member of the FRD in Miami (un-
dated card).

£, Pedro YANEZ: Subject, a journalist affiliated
with Bohemia Libre, met with members of Libertarios

in New York’on ZS May 1965 (UFG-7389, 20 July I965).
. * g. Facundo POMAR Soler: WAVE files contain the

following traces on Subject, in addition to a WH/CE

~ card which contains references to Subject's activities
in Cuba as an official of the National Federation of
Transport Workers and the Syndiate of Omnibus Aliados.

(1) Probable participant in the formation’ of
a provisional Cuban Government in exile or a pro-
visional council which will seek recognition of
the U.S, and Latin American “countries. (DBF-80328,
22 June 1961.)

(2) On a list of useable Cuban labor leaders
of union prestige. Leader of Transport; a real
stronghold in his sector; has never been a poli-
tician or held public office. (Undated memorandum,
AMICE Personnel.)

(3) CTC leader; excluded from FORDC and un-
acceptable, (WAVE-5313, 6 April 1961.)

(4) UFG-2872, 21 May 63 contains information
regarding Subject's attempts to unify the Cuban

exile community,
é

Ay f (5) Cuban labor transport leader in exile
and a favo%ite disciple of Eusebio MUJAL, Has

jent himself to all MUJAL's tricks. Has no per~ ,

a sonal criteria, (AMDENIM-1 report, 29 July 1962.)

(6G) ° Will be a head of a greup now being
formed called the Obrero Anti-Comunista Inter-
nacional (The International Anti-Communist Laborer).

=345, 6 January 1964.)

h. Mario ZAYAS: Possibly identical with Mario
ZAYAS Monzon, A 12 834 473, Cuban press photographer.
(CK-00246, 29 August 1962.) :

16, WAVE filos contain no traces identifiable with
Francisco CASADO Remedios, Armando CRUZ Cobo, Jesus GONZALEZ
Scarpetta, Luis E, POU Enriquez, Wilfredo MORAN Beole, he
Deen G, MENOCAL Beole, Rodolfo NADAL Tarafa, or Jose M.

EREZ. ;

o : : SepunCar unary ave

’ Philip G. ELMARD

