# 104-10214-10034

## Page 1

104-10214-10034)

S2G27-2ES GAS

TABLE OF COMERS

The assassination

Overs knotaure or u.s. Goverent involverez:

Recollections of CI otfIcials •

the coup group

Way a coup failed to follow the assassination

Intemational activity in orposition to Prujillo

The first farlana senorandus

..

Approach to Tridillo by Cereral Clar!:

Overation Lancet

State asics Farland 12 he could engineer e couy

Farland replies that he couid

Parland says tre dissidents aced guas

The U.5. 1s prepared to assist in overthrowing Trujillo

Ruboteon asks tast criper rifles be supplied the dissidents

Acting DCI approves air droy of 12 Sori-gileld rifies

Special Group approves mall aros for dissidesis

COS asks that one weapon de sent in cal pouc

Dearbom lears of plan to assassinal ey interceptirg auto

lasts for sucrachine gins for pioters

Dearbora asks for -bree 3Ô-caliber pistols for dissidents

The plot to kill Frujillo at his sistress' aparzent .

COS protest restriction on pouccire weapons

Is Guidance cable on policy and objactives

Station asks perission

to mass tirce carbines to

dissidents

Egs approves fasäing carsines

The corbines are pessed to the dissidants

Request for pouch waiver rei pouching submachine guas

Sucrachine guns pouched

Pleas from dissidents that subnachine guns de passed to then.

• Egs informs the station not repeat not to pass subrachine guis

Post-Day oi Pigs standdare cable

Station achnowledges receipt of sumacrine Ems

Draft cable (not sent) approving rejesse di sumachine guns

State Departuent disapproves passing subraceire gins

The viereabouts of the

three caroines

Special Group confirs rot passing subachire gus to dissidents

Ice dissidents' assassination plans are fin.

U.S. policy does not condose assassination

Dearcoaz and the cos prosest .

Critic lio. 1 0a the 2ssa531-20102

Vice President Joanson asis about ars delivery

Discovery of U.S. involvement with

assasSina stor aroup

Recapitulation of erus passed or

considared for passing

The Lotivations of the assassias

SECRET-EYES ONLY

Jazz

20

21

22

2+

25

30

37

40

40

41

42

42

43

25 F1

49

50

51

51

52

3

54

55

---

## Page 2

14-00000

274 0'59

-

320227- EYES ONLY

•. I

Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator, vas essacsinated at

about ten poo. on the night of 30 May 1951. It was Trujillo's

custon to visit one of als aistresses at tis ranch at san Cristobal

about cace a week. On rost of his travels he rode in a Chrysler

with bullet-proof glass aad "iin security guards riding in accompanying

cers.

He departel Pro this practice on ais periodic trips to San

Cristobal and

substituted a signly stereotyped patter of action:

after his nightly vali, be divissed his companions; changed into a

}haki uniform; and set out for San Cristocal In an unescorted 1957

Chevrolet, airays driven by the sare chaufseur.

On the nigit of the slaying, the Cherriet was intercepted on

& four-lane highway on the outsirts of Clodad Trujillo by elgat

armed assassins in three cars. Trujillo was killed by gunfire, and

his body was removed from the scere by the assassias. Trujillo's

chauffeur was seriously wounded, vas left behind by toe assassins,

and survived. All of the assassins escaped from the scere. Ohe was

never caugat and was eventually granted amnesty. Two were killed

• while resisting arrest. Tee ochers ...were arrested, confessed,.

and were later executed cefore soning to trial. About elgat or nine

otters, ioo sere in on or iner of the plot but did not participate

In the actual assassiration, sere killed inile in custody, alie

resisting arrest, or by suicide to avoid arrest and torture.

(Ilote: he use

the ters "plotters" to reier to all of those involred

In this attempt to overthrca prujiilo.

"issassins" refers to the

small group that actually did the killing.)

SECTET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 3

GONET-DIES GILY

There were reporto in Ciuded Inijillo zu due time trat the

U.S. Consulate had been in sore ray Involved vite the ploters.

Eventually, after the surving plotters vere granted amnesty,

pany of the details care out.

forman Call, a reporter with the

San Juan Star, wrote an article that appeared in The lied Popublic

Issue Of 13 April 1963. Excerpes follow:

The assassination of the Doninican Republic's Parael L.

Irujlilo was carried out with assistance froz the US Central

Intelligence Agency. Arms for the May 30, 1961 slaying of the

69-year-old dictator on a lonely stretch of highwaynear his

capital were smuggled by the CIA into the country at toe

request of the assassins.

The CIA began shipping arus to the Doninicen Republic 1n

late 1950, following a sertes of talks between US Coasul. Henry

Dearbora, Chief Politloal Orficer John Parfield of the L3

Consulate, and Luis Ariama Tio.

Also Involved in the plot was

Antonio Imbert, who bad bees Governor of Porto Plata province.

As TrujIllo's political and Mrancial problems deepened,

talks continued between Dearbon, Barfield and leaders of the

anti-Irujillo conspiracy. Toward the end of 1960, contact was

established between Amiana and a CIA agent who ... was

named Plato Cox.

The key lint between the assassins and the CIA in tre aras

shinents vas'a long-tive American civilian resident of Cludac

TrujIllo, Lorenzo BerTJ, otheruise known as "Wimpy," who operated

a supersarket in a fasbionable neighborhood where frujillo also

lIved.

"Wimpy" was put under brief arrest after the illiaz but

ras later allowed to leave the country.

Fae

- 2

SECRET-CIES ONLY

---

## Page 4

820731-23 32/

gus. parts escared the Republic In specially-caried food cans,

which were

lacer turned over to the co-spirators.

Plans 2s= the intended assassization were worked out during

the same-perlod-in cich the abortiva ascault. on Cuue was being.

prepared.

Ecrever, when the CIh-organized April 17, 1961,

invasion at ice Bay of Pigs failed and vorld attention was

focused on washington's complicity in that operation, a post-

ponement of ice attempt on Trujillo's life was ordered because

of the embar assment anoiner such failure might cause the

United States. But the order to hold up case too late.

The

needed weapons were already in the cards o. the conspirators,

who refused appeal's ly Dearborn and Barrield to delay tbe

assassinatios.

They insisted of moving at the first opportunity.

Inis came on May 30, when Brujillo and his chauffeur drove out

into the country in an unescorted 1957 Coevrolet for a

rendezvous at a San Cristocal estate, La hurdacion, with

trujIllo's 2)-year-oid eistress, iona cancaez.

It can be reported on excellent authority that close

associates of the slein dictator knew of the US role within

a few days following the killing.

Dearbora, Barfleid and Berry had neanwhile been rushed

out of the Dominican Republie by US officials.

Since the ouster of tre Trujillos, berry ("'lapy") has

returned to operate his handsorely appolated supermarket,

where he treets custorers with cals and courtesy, as 1f

Trujillo had never 1ired..

We interviewed Richard Bissell (then DD/P), J. C. King (then

Chief, HE Division), and J. D. Esterline (thea Chief of Operations,

WE Division). Rizz recalls the Agency's role as being limited to

monitoring intercal plotting against the Trujillo regine "but. not

pushing or Inst1sasing." Esterline, like Kins, recalls that the

Agency was not directly involved in coup plotting. He described the..

---

## Page 5

SECRET- 2123 DALY

furnisbig de weapons as a symbol-mething tat aid constitute

tangible evidence of U.S. support. Bissell rerenders lise Agency

role as belng sonewhat pose positive than that descilbed by klaz

and Esterline. He tered the Agency's role as are of Elving support

to an Indigenous group snose intended actions vere in tice U.S.

interest. Ee described the affair as "a fairly 20-zil operation

Involving seetlegs, discussioas, and joral approvals." ie do sot

have firy information as to whether or not any of tize reapons

Supplied by CIA vere actially used le the assassination of Itujillo.

Both Esterline and King celleve they were not. Bissell, horever,

bas a vague impression tbat one of ttom was.

The Agency officers rost Iredletely Involved with the plotters

are nos widely scattered.

who was chief of station...-

unt1l October 1960, 1s now retired.

who was chlef

of station at the tine of the assasstration, 1s 1n

resiged in 196%

and 1s belleved to be living in Puerto Rico.

the head-

quarters branch chief, 1s in

We elected not to call

back any of these people for intervieus. While they might be able

SEGRET-EYES CHLY

---

## Page 6

STORET-RIS ONLY

to furnish sinor detalls that are sissing irce the voltien records,

se think it. unlicely that tiey sould be dole to add sizaificantly

so the quite complete record that appears in the EMigED operatioral

files.

Agency activities aiced at replacing the Trujillo regioe were

assigned the crypton DID. One segment of ElDED was known as

the cryptonya fo= the operation to resove: Bujillo by

violent action. We have reviewed the voluminous EMDEaD files. Most

of this account is drain fron then. Many of the more significant

documents vere not put lato the EDiED Plles but vere kept in a

private file by J. C. King. Ee zade that file availnble to us.

He also have studied another particularly useful document. The

Dominican Military Intelligence Service (SIN) officer put in charge

Investigation of the

of the/Trujillo assassination was a ravy lieutenant nased Ortiz.

• The Dominican Republic assigzed his to its embassy in Ottawa in

November 1951 when the Trujillo family's attempt to regain pover

failed.

The New York field office, of the FBI held extensive

Intervlews with him from 6 April through 10 May 1952. The result

was a massively-detailed, 162-page report on the plot and on the

assassination as reconstructed by the SIM Iron its interrogations

of the persons it ayprekended.

5

SECRET-583 GIlY

---

## Page 7

SDMET-23 OM7

ros the recorda, we can crase the origin

the course of

U.S, polley "ith respect to the overtaros oi Irujillo. We also can

ascertain fron the files the cature and the extent of U.S. support

of she plotters, including the passing to trem of veapons out of the

U.S. Consulate is Cludad Trujille. What ve carot discover from tice

files, despite quite massive docusentation, is hou the coup group

was organized. Ice best single account ve fied, and It 1s not wholly

accurate, 1s in a book by Robert Crassweller. The main flaw in

the story is its failure to identify the individuals with whom the

J.S. Cover ment was actually working. Exceryts follow:

SERENE

The plot was organized on the basis of two groups of

conspirators linked togetber by & llaison that later proved

too flagile to bear the stresses laid upon it. Each group

the function of the Action Group was to assassinate

Trujillo and immediately present proof of its succes, in

the form of Irujillo's corpse, to the second group, the

Political Group.

The latter would then launch a coup,

taking over the machinery of the gover-rent and the Armed

The Action Group consisted of eight zen.

have been organired originally by General Antonio Isbert

Barreras and Salvador Estelle. . .'... They were joined

by Lleut. Anado Garcia Guerrero, a neuber Of the military

corps attached to Trujillo in tce National Palace; Antonio

de la Mazz, the brother of. Octario de la Vazz, who bad been

killed by the governsent beceuse of his involvement in the

* Robert D. Crassueller, Trijliio: The Life end Ples of :

Caribbean Dictator (New. Yors:

1905)

33

- 6

---

## Page 8

STO

N3T-23S 0Y

Gailniez case; Fusca- Dejeda; Roberto Pastoriza; and Pedro

Livio Celado.

Ice elga-i seaber, lancel Coceres Tuati, ms In

Mosa os tue iight of me. 30th and say none o. tre actlor.

The Political Grop bad a less distine: bembersbip. it

Included Luis Aniaza 11J, Modesto Dí3z, Cereal Juay ICat=

Diaz, and several others.

At the very top it had the support

of Gederal Roban Farades, Socretary 0? State for the Arced

Forces, and his brotcer 3ibia. • . ..:

The over all au bority appears to have centered palacipally

In General Diaz, probably the only one vico had sufficient

prestige to command authority. . ..•

Inforration In the Palace Indicated that Tujillo vas going

to calve ty Estancia Fundacion... Garcia Guerrero 17 the

Palace would infors the others by persoral cessage. • ?.•

20251

Tae expected sessage fros Garcia Guerrero in the Palace

came to the patient piotters at seven o'cloc's on the evening

of lay 30. They were not fully precared and coordinated at

this soment, but the enotioral and impetuous de la laza

threatened. to.act by himself if the others lazged..: Is any

event, the plan went into execution. . .... Each of them

had his revolver or pistol, and de la laza also bad his ow

saved-off shotgun and tro M-1 semiautoratic rifles. • • ••.

Tre conspiracy began to come apart within an bour. Never

very professionally contrived, the plot sas bastened prematurely

to 1ts culmination by the impatience of de la Maza, and 15 was

nos afflicted with bad luc's and ineptitude. Imediately after

the assassinallus, the men of the Action Group vera isable to

reach General Roman. • ••

The Political Grop of the conspiracy rever took up its

planned sole.

The Actica Group scattered, leerinz a trell 9g

sride as a boulevard.

Ijilio's body was left in the trun's of

de la faza's car, parked in the garage of Ceneral. Tomas Diaz,

where the police

folind it in a few hours.

The conspirators:

vere all hunted down very quickly, except for Aviana and

Imbert, who maraged to conceal themselves for sooths until

the danzer had passed.

SEMLI-SIES CHIY

---

## Page 9

SECRET - 2733 OXLE

Toe FBI report of 1is laterviews of Ortiz, the SIl investigato.,

glves an excellent account of way the plot fell apart after the

assassiration too's place. One of the assassias, Fedro Livio Cedezo,

was: serlously wounded (probably.by fire froz his own companions).

¡ All of the assassins assembled at General Diaz' house after the

killing. One of them called a friend, Di. Rocert Reid Cabral, to

treat livlo. Dr. Reid found him so badly injured teat surgery would

be reguired. Reid ard two of the assassias too's Livio to a hospital.

While 1n dell'm be numbled the names "de la kaza" and "Juan

Tomas." The police immediately picked up two brotbers of Antonio

de la Maza. Neither vas personally involved in the plot, but both

knew the detail's and the names of nost of the assassins. Ceneral

Diaz, Antonio de la Maza, and Ileut. Garcia Guerrero were killed

resisting arrest. Amiana and Imbert vent into hiding and survived.

The rest were caught and interrogated followingtorture. All

confessed.

The confessions led to identification of persons who vere la

or on the fflages of tibe Polltical Group: General Roman and his

brother, Amtana Tio, General Garcia Urbaez, General Guarionex

Estrella, Tomas Baez Diaz, Modesto Diaz, and Miguel Angel Baez Diaz.

betrees

the plotters and the U.S. Consulate. However, the SIM did not

= B -

SECRET-LIES ONLY

---

## Page 10

14-00000

S00:87-5123 CUR

discover ise iientities o? ine political piotiers with inor the

Consulate ans actually vorang, because neither of the rea mo sight

have kion the Identities vere available for interrogatica. malagi tio

escaped and Gazeral Diez sas Mille.

Although the identities and the intention of the Action Group

were fairly vidaly inor to persons not actually cembers si li, there

appears to have been

excellast compartmentation between toe Political

and the Action Groups--peraps too much compartsentation. Ie

assassination itsell oa: vell planned. General Diaz was in over-

all charge of the operation, but de la laza was the ore who did all

of the work. Ee too% taree cars to a local garage and bad the

engines rebuilt so that the cars could reach speeds of 120 aph.

He had possession of the reapoas from the U.S. Consulate, plus

several of his own. Ee and the other farticipasts took the cers

to the site selected for the Xilling and conducted dry runs each

night. Everyining wes ready and the assassins were ljing in vait

for Trujillo on the night of 23 May. At the last minute he decided

not to go to Sas Cristobal because he wasn't feeling too vell. The

assassins continued their dm runs each evening. Aîter the assassina-

tion was carried out, essentially as it had been plarned, the coup

that ras to follor failed--in part because of bad luch, in part because

of pour planning, and in part because

of too such compartentation.

---

## Page 11

SCORES-EYES QUIM

Ceneral Rosas, ho was. to ate over the goverment after Trijillo's

death, was not told test the assassimation was to be atteapted on

MAy 30th. After the slajitz, General Diaz tried to telepcore

General Roman but could not reach hir. Diaz then took the car

wita Trujillo's body still in 1ts truis and drove to Ronas's house.

He saw so many soldiers in he vicinity trat he gave up and returned

hone, leaving the car la the driveway with the body still i tre

trunk, where it was later found by the police.

What had bappered vas this: Foreer general and former head

of the SIM, Arturo Espatilat, happened to chance upon the scene

while the assassination vas taking place. He vas out for a drive

with his wife and was passed by a car that he recogrized as Trujillo's.

Ee stopped at a drlve-in restaurant and almost immediately beard

shooting ahead; vhich he suspected involved Trujillo. Ee drove to

the sone, saw what was happening, turned around, and sped back

Into town. He stoyped at a zilitary Installation and gave the

alarm and then drove to the home of General. Roman to alert his.

He and Roman then returned to the scene of the assassination,

arriving simultaneously with the police. Toe police found TujIllo's

chauffeur, who was wounded but still alive. Roman and Espellat

then went to the hospital to try to question the cauffeur. Laus,

General Diaz could not reach General Roman to infor Roman Ecat

- 10-

SECRET - LIES OLLY

---

## Page 12

14-00000

980787-2953 0127

Trujillo had been illiad and toat it ins dIe for Rosan to cale ais

move to take ore: the goversent. Ronge lied only irat there had been

a shooting involving Trujillo and that Ijillo was sissing. He did

not knod whether General Dia,' group was intolied In it or not. je

vas reluctant to sove until be vas sure that Tasjillo as dead. By

the time Roman concluded that Trujillo must be dead, it was too late

for hig to act; Rector Trujillo and Job-ny Abbes had already ta'sen

charge. Roman did nase a couple of feeble tries at engineering a

take over, but it is apparent that he had so real advance plan nor

any appreciable chances of succeeding.

The assassination itself and the plotting preceding it took

plase against a background of intersatiosal activity in opposition

to the Trujillo regime, with both the CAS and the U.S. taking clear-

cut stands.

These are some of the highlights:

8.

Veneziels brought charges in the ,

OAS that the Donizican Republis vas "in flagrant violation of

human right, freedcs, and desocracy" Pollorirg the mass arrests

1n the Dominican Republic 1e January 1950. A committee of the

- 11 •

SECRET-2I23 0.2F

---

## Page 13

STORET-SYES ONLY

Cs arsioned to investigate the charges reported on 8 June 1950

that the Dosiaicar goverrment vas gullay as charged.

b. A near-niss assassination atrempt against President

Betancourt on 2t June 1950 killed tro: 1n a1s entourage and

injured big and several others. The Verezuelan goverament

announced after capture of nost of the assassins that the

Dominican goverrment was responsible for the attempt on Betan-

court's lile and took its case to the OAS. On 20 August, the

OAS vored sanctions against the Dominicen Republic. Under

Secretary of State Dillon, testifying before the House Agricul sure

Cormitree on 24 August in support of a request by President

Elsenhover for a cut in the Douinican Repuolic's sugar quote,

1s reported as having said that it was hoped that econouie

sanctioas would result in the dorfall of Irujillo's dictator-

ship and its replacement by a noderate and free regime.

The

United States severed diplomatic relations with the Donirican

Republic on 26 August 1960, eithough consular relations were

continued.

- 12 -

SECRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 14

SENNET-EYES OHLY

As a further prelude to a chronclogical review of operation

... ...

we think it sould be uceful to ideniley the people

Involved, especially since offisers of the Departent of State

plajed a very prozinent role.

Washizgton - Departent. of State

Roy R. Ribotton

Frais Devine

• Joan C. Hill

Assistant Secretary of State for

Inter-Acerican Affairs

Special Assistant to Rubotto

Special Assistant to Rubotto

Weshiagton - CLA

J. C. King

Chief, Wil Division

Chief, Branch III, iT Divisioa

9660022

Crudad Trujillo - Departeent of State

Joseph S. Farland

Ambassedor until 28 Juze 1960. It 18

pertizent to note tha: King and Ester-

line aütribute U.S. a=d CIA invoivement

• 23

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 15

SESTET-EVES DALY

Henry Dearborn

John D. Barfield

with the plovers in the Dorialcan

Republic to Ancassador Farlaad.

Tray

descrite bin as a forer FBI eaglojee

who considered hinself quite a clardestine:

operator. Esterline, who later ferred

under him 1al

called hir

He had

direct dealinzs wish a number of the key

plotters.

Counsellor of Sabassy until 26 August

1960 and Consul Cereral thereaiter.

He

used the code name DELTA in correspondence

with the plotters.

Second Secretary until 26 August 1960

A Crypesay Descer taercaster.

Cludad Trujillo - CLA

Chief of Station until October 1960

Chief of Station fron 20 January until

# Jime 1961. Code name used with the

plotters: CAIGO

Key Doninican Plotters

Code names: SWORD and EL CHICO

Code Kanes: Mr. X, APC, and LAGUATE

Code name: SOCRATES

- 14 3

SEGRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 16

PACNPADWN 10TC436 •TE UL T4S

SSONES-DITES ONLY

ATNO SENZ-LDURES

- 15 =

---

## Page 17

4-00000

: 1.

SUGNET -573 9227

Two docurents provide a useful point oi depature, from an

historical point of vier. One is a seni-official letter iron

Ambassador Farland in the Dominican Republic to Assistant

Secretary of State Rubotton.

16 November 1959

Ambassador Farland wrote an "Official-Infomal" memorandum

to Rubotton reporting that "the uzderground is more active today

than ever in the history of the Trujillo regine." He described the

principal opposition group as being about 2,000 strong. He said:

". . . ithin this group there is growing militant anti-

American feeling based on the premise that the United States

should actively aid the Dominican revolutionary (sic) for the

overthrow of the Trujillo regine. Discussions I have heard on

tuls subject show an appalling lack of understanding of the

position of tice United States and its adopted doctrine of non-

intervention. •

• Tais group is in possession of

clandestine broadcasting equipient whica will go into operation

when the strike is made.

has been infored and joins tit

me in suggesting that you pass this inforation to J. C. King."

• 16 -

SEGRET-SYAS OMLY

---

## Page 18

15 FecrusTY 1020

A CIA siati paper, addressed to Caici, Mi Division, discusses

a pian for improvicg intelligence

coverage of the Dominican Republ

In the event of T'rujillo's rezoval

frog pover.

The objectives

Stated in tre

Paper were to ensure orderly transition in the event

Trujillo abdicated or vas deposed and to prevent a takeover by

The originator of the draft

•1s not show, but it was to be forvarded to President Eisenhower

from General Edwin Clark, a friend of the Fresident from their jears

of nilitary service.

The plan was for Clark to approaca Trujillo,

with whos he had been on good terms in the past, and attempt to

persuade Trujillo to retire.

It ras to be pinted out that there was

- 17-

SERNES-ERES ONY

---

## Page 19

SEGRET -523 227

n0 08s

who could succeed his, and that to arotect his roily and

to precerve his image as El Benerator, he should step dom and

allor asylu to de

arranged for tir. His fantiy would have the

wealth already

outsice the Dooinican Fepublic, and the fortuce

inside could be placed in trust, to be edministered/interrationally-

know personages for toe senefit of the Dosinicn people.

This proposition received hizi-level attention in Washington,

Including that of President Elsenhorer, Secretary of State Eerter,

and Allen Dulles. In approving Clari's approach to Trujillo,

the President specifled that Clark should travel as a representative

of the State Departuent, rather than as a personal erisiary of the

President. General Clars traveled to the Dominican Repliblic and

met with Trujillo on 27 March. By the time of the neeting it

appears that it had been decided that the pian would ke presented

as merely that of private citizen Clark, and that was what was doze.

The statlon thought it likely that Trujillo recognized the official

U.S. Government kand in the proposal. Oi course, nothing care of the

meeting-

22 March 1960

Ambassador Farlard, in a TOP SECRET senorandum to Ruboitca,

forrarded a plan of a Dominicar group plotting Trujilio's overthros

- 18 -

SECRET-DIES OILY

---

## Page 20

-

SUNST-DS DAY

bearing the

code nace "Operation Lancet," It vas basically a

proposal for a

course of politival astica reinforced by the threat

of being

cacked by muscle. The operation was to begin •1th tra

arrival of a "spectal U.S, confidential envoy"/dould tell Trujiilo

to leave

the countrj. "He tells it plainly and decisively; he *1ll

give hi= 12

or iß hours to do it."

It would se made clear that

11 Trujillo refused, a border incident would ve contrived, vaica.

would be folloved by "collective intervention." Assuming

Trujillo's acceptance of the ultimatun, tre plan then outlined steps

for transition

is an operating representative goverment. The amy

would ba reduced in size. A caretaker goverament would prepare ior

free elections: Ambessador farland forrarded the plan with tcese

conmenis of his or to Rubottos:

... this seguent of the dissidents is psychologically

conditioned to a point where 1y will take any step except the

ultirate, and for the execution of the latter they expect

United States assistance.

"Dic's, I thin's the tire has core lor certain agencies of

our Governeat, without attribution, to establish and implement

a definite constructive progray to influence the course of events

in the Dominican Republic.

My conversations with the Secretar

and Allen Dulles esphasized the problems anà the possibilities

of tois type oi approach. . .

30 March & 7 April 1950

The Special Group considered actions that might be taken in the

- 19 -

SECRET- ZIES ONDY

---

## Page 21

::A-00n

event of a flare-up in the Dozinican Repuulic. On 30 March, tearing

tica Cuba nigao de involied, there was tale of evacuating U.S.

civillans fros Guantanamo.

There was also discussion of the

possibility ca sealing off the land carrance to se Doninican Republic

from Faiti and of the problem of providing asgiur for Prujilio. On

7 April, there was furtier talk of sealing off the country if Brujillo

fell, and an appraisal was nade of tre chances o. his leavina

willingly:

•.. It 1s evident that Trujillo will not consider

Dating

arrangerents for omerly succession to hisseli, but

that be will eitter nang ca to the bitter end or flee the

country on scort notice, a la Ezcista."

9 Aprtl 1950

State sent a cable to Farlan

frou which

the folloring

is an extract:

"Could you, 11 30 Instructed, make appropriate arrangemene:

rithin zoxt few weeks with eppropriate civil and nilitary

dissident elecents to take over the GOD? You would be authorized

to indicate to-them that as soon as they had seized power they

should imediately request United States recogaition, and ast 10r

United States military assistance under Article Three of the Rio

Treaty in tce event of actual or threatened Castro-sponsored

invasions or of threatened insurrection incited by pro-castro

Dominican Republic

"Noat, if any, a1d vould be essential to dissicent elements

prior to takeover .

SECRET-EIRS ONLY

...

---

## Page 22

ve a Little

S20a1-0753 02L7

"IT wish to esprasize strongly that scave is for contingenes

plazales purposes coly and in no my indiates alfar authority

at precent contemplates such actica. . . ...

12 42511 1960

Parland cabled his reply

in part as follows:

"Usdar Instruction, li rould be pussibie for re to za'se

arrangesents dith appropriate civilian dissidents raose leaders

are knor to se including names toeir selectees for cop

goverreatal positions, and vita ose miliary dissident, a

general, no 1s expectiaz al exchange of passiords for purpose

secret discussions. •

"Regardless of

..- eething moes= dis exises,

Indicatisas refleci Doninican dissidenis, "so are aditedly

poorly armed, loosely organized and lace coring liaison isa

milttary dissidents, will fled it diffloult to effect tase-

over of GODR ithout existence one or sore or coubination of

¿ollorina developments (scion we sumarize celow):

(1) Clandestine ars shigents, "ita sabotage cateriel.

(2) An inrestion to serve as a sigral to the populace.

(3) Implanestation of the dissidents" "Operation Lancet."

(4)

(5)

"Incapacitation or assassination of Irujillo."

(ó) A careful step-ay-stey plan for tie perlod preceding

the coup and for the period folloring it.

Farland stated a bied for "riritu out sey cooperation" ird Dovirican

military dissidents.

Ee added:

"One of the greatest contributions ü.S. could nase to

cissideats would de

to les then knod de are prepared to assist

- 21 -

intain.

---

## Page 23

N4-00000

SACHET-GHEE 32UY

thee; transaission

fully substatiate

o1 arareni and sabotage caterial . . . could

this cooperation. . .

2 May 1960

A perorandum written of a debriefing of Ambassador Farland reads,

In part, as follows:

"The dissidents need guns and arnition from the United .

In parcicular toey need a suail number of high-povered

rifles with telescopic lenses.

Ine Antessador said that he sa:

no probles in the purchase and delivery clandestinely o? the

erns to the dissidents. But he said, of course, this raises

the question of wetter the U.S. Goverment wants to engage in

this astivity.

"Col. King said that this oi course is a policy decision. He

said that CIA could delirer the arus if this is the group we want

to support.

- 22 -

---

## Page 24

328N07-273S ONLY

(Cussent: Fariand as in lashington ios consultaticas.

Alchougs de 1s listed as having served as Anbassador until 28

June 1950, it appars that he ala not actually return to dutir

in Cludad Trujillo. lils successor, Vinton Chapin, was nooinated

13 June, but he never took the post.)

3 June 1960

Farland set with

In WE Division.

I the Dozinican desk officer

to see if tice

Farland hed been dealirg. Farland

senorandum of the

said, "Those are the boys nil rignt."

meeting includes this comment:

"Parland then told me that the underground opposition are

planning to assassicate Trujillo.

Fe said that it is planed to

use a poverful bonb inich could be planted along the roue uf

Trujillo's nigntly walk and could be detonated by s recote-

control firing device. Ee insinated that this plan is pretuy

well along and could be

Undated Working Paper (filed between papers dated 25 May and 13 Jure)

The author 1s not identifled nor 1s there say indication that

the proposal was approved. Its objective was stated thus: "To

precipitate the

doinfall oi the Trujillo regise by 1 August or as

soon as possible thereafter." It proposed that the U.S, bacase a

prime motive

force againsi the Trijillo regire. "In the event Trijillo

- 23 -

SURRET-EVES ONLY

-At*

---

## Page 25

SCLET-DES SI!

refused to abdicate, consideration should se diven to other cover or

Orer* actions desigred to effect his reroval fron the scere."

A

deadline of 1 July was proposed for completing arrangements.

17 June 1960

senty Dearbor, who was in charge in the incassador's absence,

queried State

Jesting for coatirmation on

certain points

for a meeting he was having with a dissident leader,

He stated his understanding of the U.S. position

as follows:

Toe U.S- 1s not prepared to take overt action against

the Trujillo govervent while it is In full control.

The U.S. is prepared to assist the opposition clandestinely

to develop effective forces to accomplish Irujillo's overtara.

c. Assistance must continue to be channeled covertl;

until such tire as toe dissidents establish a provisiona

goverment which controls a substantial section of the

Dosinican Pepublic.

20 Juse 1960

Dearborn,

asked Rubottom and Farlard

11 be could ma'se the sare statements concerning U.S. policy in a

netting with

another dissident leader. Farland replied

in the affirative.

- 24-

---

## Page 26

14-00000

28 Juse 1350

Dearborn cabled the results of his flest meeting ita

He said thail

_felt that the time to concentrate on,

for planning purposes, was the teriod exterding through the

"incapacitatiod of Trijillo; too nuch planning or what would

follow risked exposure. Dearborn said that he egreed.

Also on 28 June (although the first written record we find 1s

& curmary semorandia prepared on 18 October), Rubottom told J.C.

King that the Govemsent of the United States vas prepared to

participate in the overthrow of the Trujillo regme to the following

extent: "to provide a scall number of sniper rifles or otber devices

for the renoval of key Irujillo people from the scene. •

...."*

Rubottom added that the U.S. Goverrment was not prepared, at this

time, to send aras, equipment, or paranilitary experts to assist the

undergound to accomplish a revolt.

29 June 1960

Dearbor cabled the results of his meeting with

said that

had veconmended a

temporary standdoim on "action

toward incapacitation of Trujillo" while determining Venezuela's

reaction to the Trujlilo assassination plot against Betancourt.

Fe

- 25 -

SEGRE7-EYES OUL7

r:+

---

## Page 27

in?

052/05.62

SCONET-EVES ONLY

Izarbor reported that the dissideats had a arability for picking

up ams at sea and for caching nearby caves. le also desorioed an

airdrop site.

1 July 1950

A senorandun addressed to tbe Acting DOI reccrmended approval

for the delivering of respons to tre Dominican dissidents.

It is proposed to procure and deliver to undergroun

pposition forces in the Dominican Repolic 12 sterile U.S

rifles, Model 1903 (Springfield), with telescopic sights, together

wite five hundred rounds of amunition for same. • . .

"Approval for dellvery of these eras has been given by

Assistant Secretary of State Roy Ruboital, uno requests that

the aras be placed in tie hands of the opposition at the

earliest possible nocent.

The menorandum vas sigred by Rudy Gomez for Chief, Wa Division; was

concurred In by Richard Helms as Acting DD/P; and was approved by

C. P. Catell on 2 July 1960 as Acting DCI.

Dearborn was Inforued by cable of plars to airdrop trelve

30.03 Springfields, with armunition, and vita sigats "fixed and

sighted." The cable asked for the

coordinates of a suitable drop

site and for a four-uan reception teen wita flaszlights.

The cable

- 26 --

SIGNET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 28

14-00000

320187-0753 GIC/

added that, "Il air drop delivery noù fossicle, los noù studyina

8 July 19€0

in rärt:

(

employed simultaneously irita action to incapacitate Trujillo

and what is needed in ray of material support for inplementation

of plan of action.

Di particular importance is inio re exten

of military participation in preparations.

in spite of f

apcarent lack of knowledge or opposition organization, most

logical that he is actirely collaborating iith a group that

must have some plan and capability for action which will essure

In your opinion arel

camova

-ci Tujillo. ..

or if not could the tro groups ce cerged? . . .

meers of same groun

8 September 1960

The Special Group discussed a letter draited by the Department

of State

for delivery to Brujillo (copy in CIA illes dated 6 Septenber)

proposing

that be stey down. The DCI (ir. Dulles) doubted the wisdom

of putting such a proposal in writing. He preferred a personal

approach.

The Group concluded that a personal approach would be

best and discussed Nillian Parley es

= candidate for the job.

18 October 1950

Chief, Wi Division, prepared a resorandu sumarizing epprovals

- 27 -

SEGRET-CIES ONLY

---

## Page 29

14-00000

obtainel for actios in support of the Dosinican intamal opposition.

The text states that the scary rais

"provlied in response to your

verbai request on 13

October 196) ... " This 1s the renorandur

to which reference 1s, made earlier under the entry for 28 June 1960.

29 Decencer 1950

The minutes of the Special Group meeting of tais date read,

1n part:

"Bistel gave the broad outlines oi a two-pronged plan

for proceeding vith cersaia limited covert activities virected

against the Trujillo regime. Ee emphasized tbat although

support would be given to tice Figures group there is no

intention of establishirg a paramilitary force as such ..

He also emphasized that she proposed actions would not of them-

selves bring about the desired result in the near future,

lacking sore decisive stroke against Trujillo himself.

• It was noted that Mr. Pawley feels thet

overt intervention in the Dozinican Pepublic should be

say at er shat the eventual deeisloa on overt intervention

(Conment: We find nothing in the flles Identifiable wit

such a "plan." We found no other reference to any specific

plan of about this date.)

12 January 1961

The following is an excerpt fros the ninutes of a meeting of the

- 28 -

SECRET-BIES ONLY

---

## Page 30

114-00000

Spacial Group

this dete:

"Mr. Merubant explained the iceling of the Departet of

State that limites supplies of small ams and other meterial

should te made availaole for dissidents inside the Dominicas

Parrobt said that ve believe tais can be tanaged

securely by CIA, and that the plan would cali for final imas-

portation into the group being provided by the dissidents

thenselves.

The Group approved the project."

19 January 1951

"For Dearborn: FYI and use as you consider adviseable,

authority has been given Has for dalivery to interal 1-0a:

of liniced supply of mall arms and otber material on condition

that introduction of saturial into LonRep ke effectad by Doss.

... . . Above coordinated with State."

24 January 1961

Menorandun for the record of a discussion of Project EMDEED by

members ci the CA Staff and of WE Division:

"It as confired (from Mr. Parrott by phone) that the

Special Group now has approved that a 'limited supply' of

small ars and related equipent may be provided covertly to .

the Doninican resistance elements with whom we have been

Tais was additional to the Special Group's approval

on 29 Decenber 1950 of our Operational Proposal."

(Comment: As noted in the entry PO= 29 December, we ?20iw

nose of the specifics oi this Operational Proposal.)

- 29 -

SECRET-DIES ONLY

161 4793

---

## Page 31

14-00000

?:

(

31 January 1361

"Official-Infomal" lester from Dearborn to Devize In State

Departrent:

"With regard to the delivery of exotic equipment, py

friends "ere of course deligated that suca a decision had been

I hope that 16 will not be necessery to play dom too

long the question of actual delivery since they are eager

and expectant and too treat tardiness on our fart would only

lead then to question our sincerity."

6 February 1901

Cable fron headquarters:

"1. Realize details not nor available but Egs would

appreciate dissidents'/_reaction to offe= oi amed assistance

to include /dissidents/ current plan

*2. Also request

_lintsial assessent

[aissidents'] capability carry out plan of action once liaited

armed assistance provided."

10 February 1951

The station cabled its reply:

"To solla" reectich except joy as o? 9 Feb.

"Initial assesment is

carry out plan.

But with access

V he now

approaching point when vill batter be abie evaluate group

potential for action.

We some weeks away frau being able

make solid preliminary assessment.

"Suggest KUBARK consider sending in each pouch one reall

- 30 -

SECRET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 32

827-73371

size high fire pover respon co at least gesture in rieat

directio: can be nade it ie

ail chrom out. Amo corld

come

later.

I4 February 1951

At the Special Group meeting of thir date, Mr. Sundy:

... asked that a senorandia be prepared for cigcer

authority on

the subject of cat plans can be made for a

successor governent to trujillo.

(Coment: He did not find a copy of

such a senorandus

in CIA files.)

15 Februery 1951

the headquarters branch chier,

Excerpts inca nis

memorandum record of the meeting follor:

" . ...

plajed dor somewnat the necessity for

delivery Di arus, althouga he did say that it is desireable

and should be a part of the plazing.

Ee said that meavers of

the opposition could, if they vanted to, obtain scall quanitities

of arms froo Arny contacts

... but that any arms so obtained

would lave to se used very quickly before their loss is

discovered. For this reason, be said lt would be desireable to

have aras delivered by us taat could be stored for use at any

norent desired.

said tbat the Object of obtaining this lind of help

anyway is the elisiration of Trujilio and instead

of using arms

os grenades be began to spea's of more exotic materiels and rethods

..

• a porerful comb that coulà be planted along the route of

Frujillo's evening walk and co:la ba detonated iron a rearor

- 31 -

SEBAST-DIES OILY

---

## Page 33

i "%."

S80027-5133 52Y

elestronic device .

.. (or) ... the possibility of poisonirg

the dictator's iood on of putting poison capsules in bottles

of certain sedicines trau toe dictator is Inore to take

regulariy....

exotic and sore practical plan that they put for-ard

was one that they said had already been planned at one tize

before. Toey said that ween the dictator leaves his office for

his hose there are three automobiles in bis procession lin the

dictator hinself in the first automobile and the bodyguards in

the following two. Tue idea that bas been discussed intemally

15 for several truces to blocis isa progress di tirese cars at a

gIven intersection at wich time young neu iso belong to the

action groups would leap out of the trucis with fire arms ano

grenaces to finish off the dictator."

4 Narch 1961

Headquarters pouched to tice station a copy of

mezorendua

On l March, the entel of statica

cabled bis assessment of the plan to intercept Trujillo's entouraze

and kill his with guns and grenades:

Idea . . . gIrost certain fall if applied. Toat

type attuck is precisely shat bodyguards appear best quali?led

cope with. Their defense pattern and displacement venicles

plus police practice die taste bocks are to catourage

Idea fatally childisa La

(Carment: The assassination as actually carried out

through a variation of this scheme. Ine assassins detected and

took adrantage of a stereotyped pattem in Trujillo's sovesents

in which he rode at night, unescorted, on little traveled aigarays.)

- 32 -

SEGRET-ZING ONIY

---

## Page 34

SECREE -

• . .

5549-0

109p%

Toe station cabled neadquarters on # March:

... if opportunity support pro-us group 20t to be 105t,

believe

•. • imperative more

sure aras tita amo ready for

Incediate entry Domep ... if necessary at air doop sites •

5 March 1951

As a follor-up to that cable, tre station cabled a comunication

from

] "We have in our hands coance to speedup

events. Everything is being plarred perfectly. Results may be

assured as nuch as human fallibility permits. . . ...

I Marca 1961

Headyuarters cabled the field, 1a part:

"Existing authorization precludes introduction ars into

Dom Rep by U.S. personcel. Order prepare contizgezey plans

for possiole altercate delivery setaod, request station

deteraine additional drop zones and confim those seationed

•.. • • Request type and quazulty ars desired. . . . . .

87

8 March 1951

Cable from the station:

told Dearbom un 7 March toatl

Jazi

group plan try kill Irujilio on Lintersepting his sar) at point

are not set and obviously depend

Trujillo treel.

Jest avare

I has tol

US

but interesting that Coarge' Papal Nunciatura also aware plot

exists but possibly not of personnel iavoived."

- 33-

SEGMET- EIDS ONUY

---

## Page 35

SOONET-HYES JULY

8 March 1951

He aguarters cabled the station:

adal one deeply a nested pete plans i gest canen:

•and request urgently.

Uncertainty of plans, timing and sances of success precludes

Has seeing commitzent for such spalcifie assistance as that

requested . .

13 March 1951

Ecadquarters cabled the station:

C.

15 Karch 1901

Cable fros the station:

small subbly frazentation grezales don ise in next cess or so.'

VEnt Frajilio] this

onth or drop it as nuber of triage persons sita loose mouts

are apperently avare reneval play ..

asked for f1v

45 no (sic) rapid fire weapons or sirilar,

1,500 rolads atmo for

- 34 =

SECRET-DIES ONLY

l.i=

---

## Page 36

14-00000

80187-223214

• . . 50

TOckets.

incentation grenades,.. ten Gam ian:

10 March 1951

Headquarters cabled its reply:

"Egs exploring possioilities to= ams delivery ond will

advise ASAP.

resavaile, request you clarity soonest:

Is

Teasino rejept or ora ingriative ur is he spealtag tos

17 Narch 195%

Cable Irom the station:

"Por Issue to several Lof tre dissident grouy/ Consul

•Gezeral Dearbora reguests three 33 caliver Smith and Nesson

Special pistois or sinilar and taree scall boxes cartriages.

If sending ammo complicates probles, advise and de sill try

get fron Marines.

"Chief of Station reiterates suggestion [to send in each

pouch one scall size high fire power weapon as Dearcora

Increasingly concerned lest mocentu which group has now for

(assassination/ declire result lack tangible or too slow action

on arms by the U.S. Government.

Also security these people

increasingly of direct interest US Government chich esca day

more involved in /the operation/. Loss of one of key people

thru capture could lead revelation detalls ODYCE/ELEED

Inus preferable ve give them some chance defend

theselves against SMl."

18 March 1951

alan.

- 35 -

SECRET- DIES DALY

---

## Page 37

SIONCT-DALS CALY

"Ris group Escassination) plan noa this: Group 130is

Identity Prujillo's sistress in capital.

Ra visits her osce

weet or cron 1a 5a0 cess. Goes her apartent. auegalto and

lanty guarded. Group apprently has soreone in building a

caa alert they to visit.

tossed as aruy Officers, call grou

1ln 69 to entrance, distract guard vitia pretex

dispatca hi=

thes in silence, eats apartment and y do lesassination,

"To do they need fire l-3 or couparable mcrira guns and

1500 Pounds ano for persoral dejense in event fireflaat.

will

use quiet weapons for casic job.

Jfinal

positica vas U.S. Coverament get items here soonest cia pouch.

or similar means.

Evident he actually sorried that dellvery by

otter seass would compromise entire project.

Obvious be can

coumt on Oily one group both receive arms ard do Lassassination.

xpects and willing risk chaos for period

vi mitten begü aller Essassication rainiy because for

securlty reasor his group cannot apprcas military ara hope to

get decisive agreement support before [Essassination.

20 March 1951

Headguarters cabled the station:

"Regret no autha-isation exists to sustend pouca regulations

agalast shimment of arms

_if this feasible.

Coordianted with State Dejartuent."

22 Marcia 1951

The station replied, in part:

• we realize permission does not nor exist but

Chief of Station anors that he

via pouch for worthy purposes, so it car ce done.

Judging Iron

rel, Wi not prepared taxe tnis step. If tais unalterzoly so then

- 36-

SECRET-B/ZS ONLY

---

## Page 38

14-00000

380X2T-25 CET

please contique try got authorization for air drop oi

• or import ams by fother/ meaus.

for amas, whatever delivery sethod, dill end cooperatio

CapLetely negative sea

Jard probably by

35 larch 1951

The above excerpt is the most sienificant point in the cable,

but the excerpt does not fully reveal the contentious toce of the

cable. On 25 Marco, Headquarters, in a cable released by the DD/P

(BIssell) undertoo to set

straigat. The cable gives a fairly

complete statement of

U.S. policy and objectives and of

responsibilities. It 13 sumarized here. We support a program to

replece the Irujillo regise; ie wish to avoid precipitate action 1e

pianning is not well organized, as appears to be the case; machine

guns and ammunition will be supplied to demonstrate good will to the

dissidents;

the requested revolvers are being pouched. Headquarters

Is planning with State egalast the eventuallty of sudden action by

the dissidents that migat result in the forming of a new goverment

"Il above clarifies ags position, |

should proceed accordingly.

In event major points revair unclear, State Departent preparing

Orders perit retura for consultations."

(Concent:

We do not know ibether

replied to this cable

or not. He do not find a reply in the files.

dia go to

headquarters for consultations about 5 April, but we cannot

- 37 -

* I: is apparent frou tre ENDED operational files that no ares were

ever air-dropped

SIUMET-FIES ONLY

---

## Page 39

SEGRET -EXES OLY

establish that the trip ves a direct result of this cabla. Taere

Is sore evidence that suggests that the trip ray. have been in

connection with a request fron the dissidents for submachine

guas.)

26 arch 1961

:Cable frow the station:

request permission pass three semi-

automatic M-l carbines 30 caliber and sugply anno which avaliable

consulate fom departed reval personel.

Would need fron Hqs

nine 30 cartridge magazines for vespons.

Request prompted by

Taute ¿f Marcia wich says he wwwl huid group

together beyond April 15 vithout arus dellvery. . . . ..

• (Caument:. It may be helpful to interrupt the chronology

at this point. As we will later explain,..these carbines were

actually passed to the dissidents. They were in the hands of

Antonio de la Maza, who worked out the details of the assassination

and was the lead figure is carrying it out. They almost certainly

vere taken to the scene of the slaying by the assassins. We kave

no evidence that any of them were actually fired during the shooting.

The little evidence ve have suggests that they were not actually

used. These three cardines are the weapons referred to by various

sources as baving teen passed to the plotters by CIA. We find no

evidence of any other weapons having been passed.)

SECRET-DISS ONLY

---

## Page 40

27 119ren 1951

Eeadquarters cabled tre statlor:

"FYI, ref hardrare The three pistols the station asked be

pouched/ nakes fatzly sizeable rackeze 11 lumped single sbiment.

Request soorest COS estimate of ris's involved seuding one pacsage;

or whether split shinent preferable."

(Comment: le find no Indication in the files that these

revolvers were ever actually pouched. We suspect they were not,

because the request for them vas overtaken by subsequent events.

29 March 1961

Ecadguarters cabled the siation:

" . • . Has inclined to favor passing

carbines and ammo.

Are carbines carried on local installation

Inventory, thus requiring paper wors vaich may dior CLA's

ultimate use?.

]they being rade available to Dominicars? Require

Consul Cereral Dearbor's concurrence.. Advise... . . ..

Pouching. • • nine ragazines .

31 March 1961

The station replied:

IA officer depending on wat

steps seems best here. Dearbor concurred in request end in this

nessage.

We cannot esphasize enouga that we must make gesture of

-139 -

SEERCT -DIES ONLY

---

## Page 41

SX9N27-2723 GHIN

good will to

nod.

These jens are not what he

asked for but they are an friessent 11 operational continuity.

Toe security ilss in his having toese items is no greater tban

his having similar items delivery

lieadquarters cable to the station:

"Passing the three carbises approved. Advise liqs then

passing.of this egulpsent completed.

(Corment: Tis cable was zeleased by the DD/P (Bissell).)

7 April 1961

Cable from the station:

"[The pouch formarding ungazines for the three carbines]

contained 15-bullet magazines rather than 30-bullet magazines

as requested. Pls expedite pouching 9 latter type Mol carbine

ragazines."

9 April 1961

Cable from the station:

[the three carbines/ to

passed

April T. No complications."

(Coment:. The files do not contain an account of how the

carbines were actually passed. As we will' later see, headquarters

subsequently pouched subeachine guns for passing to the dissidents.:

Headquarters asked for the station's plan for securely passing the

subzachine guns to the dissidents. The station replied:. "Propose

use essentlally same technique as that for Lice three carbires/.

• 40-

SECRET-ETES ONLY

---

## Page 42

SIONER-BLES ONLY

I April 1961

Chief, Wa Division, submitted to Chief, RI, a nemorandun requesting

waiver of pouch rest-iction on pouching weapons. "The above request

Is submitted for the following reason: Station Clidad Trujillo Les

requested that Headguarters provide four M3 nachire guns and 2'40

rounds of ammunition on a priority basis for issuance to a small actioa

group to be used for self protection."

(Coment: Toe entry for 18 March 1961 refers to a request

for submachire guns, but there was no 101loi-up on 1t from the statios.

Tols pouch waiver request was subnitted while the chief of station as

SESTET -DIES ONLY

---

## Page 43

30MT-22S OV

at headgarters fos consultations. It is procable that he rade tre

plea la person.. As will be seen later, tre sucacaire guns (tha so-

culled "geese, 5isa" of World War II) were pouched but approval vas

never zirea the station to pass them to the plotters.)

12 April 1951

Zeadgarcers cabled the station:

"Equipment for L

os caler or Statton coareations age betna pouched se

susachina guns? whica suject

April. Prior to passing equiment, advise Has what scheme of

delivery proposed."

(Coment: The delivery scheme 1s explained in comment on

the 9 April entry.)

13 April 1951

An extract. Iron a note sent to Consul General Dearborn Fran

"The three Leica cameras, model M-1 the three carbines/,

With their accessories, should be in the proper hands in a day

or two.. ..: • With the small enomt of equipment which ther

are receiving they can only take action at a few specific places

and therefore the probabilities are considerably reduced and

toe tize factor considerably extended accordingly.

With the

rest of the equiment (four Leicas, nodel M1-3) Libe sucmachine

guns/ the possible places of action are multiplied and the lost

tise greatly reduced."

14 April 1951

Extract frau & note from SOCATES

tO DELTA

- 42 --

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 44

¿Consul General Dearbora/ :

"The thiee Lelua vameras and accessories are in the hands

of tine ones that will tire the pictures.

they need sore caneras

In order to do a setter and faster job.

He hope that the meso

we sent

two days ago might belp in lasa. in this regard."

IT April 1951

Note from YAGUATE

Jand SOCRATES|

to

"Ine last word, us to the minute in the matter of cameras:

CRISTOBAL I

I says that with the 3 Leica

eady delivored it io imposalbie to do li poutgraguic

job.

We needs to heve the rest of the equirent (the 4 i1-3

Leîcas) before he undertakes the job. The ones already delivered

he sees

then as good complarentary equipment (defensive) but ke

needs

tice others for the aggressive part of the job.

It is my

beller tagü the ores alreedy dalivered bave served a psychologlial

purpose also:

the men lavolred have alrays been in coubt the

good faith of your people in rash.

Their feeling vas that in

several sonths all they nave obtained were promises.

Now they

see teat you actually mean business.

So, now, all they are doing

Is waiting for the leavy cateras."

17 April 1961

Feadquarters cabled the station:

... most important Libe submachize guns/ 20t/5

repeat not

passed to

ritaout auditional lgs approral.

Please

advise wren equirent received and proposed schere and timing of

delivery."

- 43 -

5929:6

---

## Page 45

SEMET-DESS ONLY

20 4pF1l 1961

Heedquarters cabled the station:

"Eubmachine guns? stould se bela in satioa custody t1ll

further notice and not repeas not be pasied to

This Egs decision based on judgest that 11llinz vacuu created

by. [assassination no: blose= question than ever view unsettled

conditions in Cariasess area.

(e) Eave

the three carbires been delivered tol

alls on an alierare pian to deliver Leubrachine ga

(Coumer.t: It night be noted that this cable sas sent

Just three days after the fallure uf the lidirz at tze Bay of

20. April 1961

Note to DELTA Dearto= fros YAHAIE and SOCRATES:

"The officers that vere to do the photographic job are not

only disappointed but really angry at the refusal of the delivery

of the other Leicas.

They have decided to five up tee plan and

disperse, because they camot take any more risks for nothing."

20 April 1961

Cable from the station:

"Subachire gungT kere 19 April iith no entry problems

whatsoever. Excellen: [

neans station's plan can

be simplified even nore.

I the'

Ja=d the chief of station can share delivery

Irect to drop. Request Egs advise vhen se may begin."

SERRET-DIES OMY

---

## Page 46

308727-275 9107

(Corrent:: The presise rature si this

15 not furcher clarialed In the pile.. Morraz Gall,

wT1t1ra in The Ney Repualie, said sea: the meadoas tere salaped

to Hip; Derry lin foca cans.

21 April 1961

Cable from beadquarters to the station:

further notice and not repeat not be passed to

22 April 1961

The station replied to headquarters' query of 20 April

regarding disposition of the three carötres:

to intercediary who holding until

bas ziven the three carbires/

picks up ..

45 -

SIGNET-EMES ONLY

---

## Page 47

14-00000 :

BBXNET-DUS OILY

(Cornent: Tais "Interediary" arears to kare been

The significance of tris and ne securtsy probles it

posed will becase apparent fron ore of tre later entries for

31 Nay.)

35 10-11 1961

"Foll from Dearborn: "I valleye pulitiul consequence of not

delIvering Eubacktre sag] so serfus I plan do vachiasten dithis

rext ler days for discussion ith Departzent and CAS Egs!"

25 Apr! 1 1951

Cable fron, the station:

told Chief of Station.. Astonio de la

Haza plans try assassinatica between 29 April and 2 May.

possibly not jet avare plaz. No solid into oste:

members assassication effort but. General-Juan Tsas Diaz. Docab

will a1d. Will use the three carbires plus waterer else can

set.

De la Maza asks |

add the sumachine guns if possible

30 April 1961

206006

"Following iron Dearbor:

April 28

J and_

called on ze with foll lafo: .

main missior

Jwas pleed with me release subeschtne guas they

believe in Don Rep and under my coztrol. Action soup has 3

carbines,

, 4 toó 12-stese snotguns u1th 120 rounds and sure sall

• • • Action entails roudsice anoush near San Cristocal

÷46-

SEGRET-EXES ONLY

---

## Page 48

SISTER-DIES OIL?

and few additiocal reapons could ce important.

I replied

I had to siracaine guns under =y control and that any U.S.

controlled itons wich sight be in Dom Rep could only be released

on specific authorization from lasalaztor.

I pointed out that

since the three carcines were zade available Cuban incident bad

occurred me hope coole could case stand this is pertod of study

and assessent.

2 N2z 1951

Cable from the station:

sugzest Has review: decision not pass sucrachine

guns. Detergination of group to go acead sita possibly inadequate

pone could spell end best pre-uS

force noy working toward the

overthros oi the Trujillo reglue."

2 isay 1901

Draft cable prepared at headguazters:

• • Since it appears that_

group has comitted

Itself to action with or without additional support, coupled with

act. Enat the carbines aLready made avallale to them for persona

erense; station authorized pass sumachine guns to !

for

their additional protection on their proposed endeavor. •

(Consent: This cable vas never sent. It vas authenticated

by

FOr J.C. King, and Richard Bissell coordinated oa

1t. It was forraried to the DOCI for release. General Cabell

attached a handwritten duck-slip: "Retura to: Chief, W.H. Divog

unacted upon.")

- 47.-

SIGNET- 2123 ONLY

---

## Page 49

STONET-GIES ONLY

4 say 225₴

i.The Director, at a seeting of the Special Group, reported a

net anti-trujillo plot, sajing that ve never zer if one of these

would work or not.

5 May 1951

Eeadguarters cabled she staticn:

"Regret delay out release lof the subachine guns awaits

h1gh level State Department decision."

8 May 1901

Feadquarters cabled the station:.

"State Departzent has disapproved passing [submachine guns].

16 May 1901

(Corment: There is an unsigned and alnost Inccmprehensible

emorandun in the ENDED flles.. It is dated 17 Nay 1961 and conceras

a meeting with

The transuittal dispatch rases.

48

SEGRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 50

ST00E7-23 DILY

- 49 - 113:

SECRET-RIES ONLY

---

## Page 51

SPORET-SIDS CALY

18 key 1951

There vas discussion at a Special Group reeting. of planning with

respect to the Domirican Republic. Chester 3odles said he thought

that an Internal State planning paper outlining an ambitious

paragilitary plan (and alleging Special Group approral) exceeded

the Special Group's action. Mr. Parrott's notes supported that

apression. The following is an excerpt fron the minutes:

"General Cabell noted that the internal issidents were

pressing fo: the release to them of certain all arms nor i

U.S. hands: in the Dominican Republic. Se inquired wether the

feel1ag of the Group romaired that those aras. should not be

passed.

The members showed no inclization to take a contrary

position at this tine." *

35 kay 1961

The agenda of the Special Group meeting for this date proposed

discussion of "further guidance to Dearborn re contacts with

aissidents." The mautes of the reeting, hovever, wike no mention

of the subject.

27 May 1961

"Department from Dearborn:

"May 26 I had long talk with

rede no request for arms vich

Indicates group has accepted fact it mist do with what 1t has.

- 50

* The sall arms to which General Cabell referred vere the submachize

guns, which vere pouched to the station but vere rever passed to te

dissidenis.

SECRET -BIES ONLY

---

## Page 52

330M5T-283 OLY

His caly statecent or this zuojoct ins that group bas aras bus 18

sozechat concerned iretser enorgh.

"He stated actics group planning overthror. Trujillo for

past 3 seeko and mergenting anti-communist pro-democratic

elerents of wich he senber rerains on drink final perforance

and deterined as ever.

Said he could give me no date because

a:tion depends wea Irujillo follows aralled patter which

not known in advance.. Group has arrangement for being infomed

sufficiently in adrasse to get into assigned positions once

sigoal given. He asked if United States prepared assist pro-

United States Dominicons quickly if they succeed overtarou

• Trujillo.

"I replied . . . sped with which assistance could be

given would be increased considerably 1i ve could have prior

into on sucil subjects as tining, plans for action, personalities

involved an identity of proposed junta. .... . He replied

particizants were not prejured give thel: nages until afterward

and could not give tie for reasons stated earlier. • ••

"Re timing!

stressed event could happen any day. and

could in fact have happened 3 tines in last 2 weeks except that

necessary juxtaposition of forces did not raterialize."

39 Nay 1961

"For Dearborn fron State

• We must not Jun risk

of U.S. association vith political assassination, since U.s.

as matter of general policy cannot condone assassination. Thi

-last principal is oremiding and must prevail in doubtful

situation. . .

• You cust request and receive further

specific Instruction for any specific covert activity.

At the

present time ve are unable to transfer aras to dissidents, ... '"

(Comment: Both Tearsora and the chief of statica sent

cables comenting on this guidanse cable. Their cables were filed

- 51

SECRET -BIES ONLY

---

## Page 53

STOXE1-DIES OML7

10 Cludad Traillo on 30 May but were 205 received la Hashington

until the early noring hours of 31 Maj--about eight hours

after the assassination too's place. Excerpts follod.)

31 Pay 1951

"State fron Dearcora

• • If atteupt is rade by U.S.

Iriends assassinate Tujillo there vill be accusations against

us and best we can do is see there is no proof.

Greatest danger

point is

He was given suall number aras by

dissident agent to hold several days and has told several persons

dissidents obtained these items fras consulate.

toid ne

same and I have infored him this cannot. be true or I would know

and when he requested ue supply arms through him for dissidents

I told his this impossible. ...

"Assune [the 29 May policy cable fron State to Dearborg is

final word on present policy l

Jaust be based.

This for practical purposes retreat from previous policy.

Eowever Iqs aware extent to which U.S. Goverent already

associated with assassination.

preparation mist be vithdrawn now.

tried and not successful,

- 52

SECRET -EMS ONLY

---

## Page 54

32 19: =951

wide traden

- 53 °

SEGNET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 55

A3NT-2733 0IEY

3 June 1961

Memorandus for the record siged by J. D. Esterline, in part:

Case Dificen

Assistant

should not retan to Trujillo. Accord-

1nzlj,. an operatical immediate cole das seat to the station

the afternoch of 2 Jice issuing approprtate instructions."

9 June 1961

Memorandu for the record signed by J. C. King, subject:

"High-Level Meeting on Lominican Crisis" --In part:

"The reeting was beld at 1800 hours on 5 June 1961 in Room

7514 of tse Departent of State. Arong *bose present vere Vice

President Ijadoa jshnson, Secretary Kolasara, General Lemnitzer,

Under Secretary Bowles, Deputy lader Secretary Alexis Johnson,

Mr. Ed Murrod, Calei, USIA, Hr. irthur Sualesinger, Mr. Riccard

Goodirin, Mi. Ted Achilles, Mr. Wis Coert, Mr. Morales Carrion

and Mr. Jazeson.

"Vice President Lidon Jobnson referred to another message

fron Consul. Gereral Dearborn which vas in an alarmist tone as to

the possibility of implicating the United States in the delivery of

arms to the dissidents.

The Vice President then asked what

was the tiring and authority on the deliery of arns."

(Coment:

The vessage to waich Vice President Jonson.

referred is not in the EMDIED operatioral files. We did not

find'a copy in & search of Cable Secretariat archives. Jake

Esterline, who arpears to have ridden heri on post-assassination

planning, dues not recall naving beard of Vice President Jonson's

5%

SECRET -E/ES ONLY

---

## Page 56

CS0N87-DIS D

query. Ice recod suzzesto that le ined of 1t bat does not nos

remember. Inere 15 an unaizeed assonaig in ta REDED file

dated 6 June 19ól (the day efter she reeting at Itate), subject:

Views on Passage of Ares to Dominican Dissideats."

The senorandun sumarizes State Departzer:-Consulate involvement

in having weapons furnisred to the dissidents. The routing and

record sbeet attacised to the senorandu snous it as originated

by

(Esterline).. Esterline initialed the routing and record. sheet

and returned the memorand to

Tais suzgests to us .:

that J. C. King, upon returning fron the reeting at State, assed

Esterlice to have a sumary pulled together.

J. C. King remembers the meeting at woich the Vice President

asked about the delivery of arms. He does not nor recall the

specific query. Re-reading his remorandu record of the neetiag

leads him to belleve that the Vice President's question vas

directed to one of the State representatives. Ee feels that,

1f 1t had been directed to CIA, he would have made sention of

that fact in his record of the neetlig.

A senorandu for the record prepared by J. C. King of a Walte

House meeting on tce losinican crisis on 7 June 1961 takes no zention

of U.S. involverent in passing veapons to the assassins. The meeting

was canired by the President, and Vice President Joanson was present.

-54-8-

SEOMST-2I8S BILY

---

## Page 57

F0NZT-2/08 CALV

The preceding, quite detailed, and alcost wholly docusentary

eccount of U.S: Goverment involvement with persoas plotting

the overttiron of Trujillo carries through the actual assassination.

Early in the report ve explained way the coup -hat las to follow

the assassination never took place. Another essertial part of the

story is the roll-up of the assassination group and the discovery

of U.S. involvement with them. The consulate cabled

Jon 9 December 1961 that the I Driember iseue of the

Dosinican newspaper Is Macion carrled a story

.. • based on Huascar Tejeda Pinentel's statement

to Judge

of Instruction that Wirpy (Lorenzo A. Berry)

provided the caliber 30 M-1 Carad autcratic carbizes used

to X111 ITUjillo. *

Interrogations of the captured assassins. The following sumary

1s drawn fron the FBI's report of 1ts intervievs of Ortiz, the SIM

officer who headed. the investigation of the assassination.

Incediately after the slaying, all of the assassins assembled

at the house: of General Juan Tomas Diaz. Dr. Robert Reid Cabral

was called to treat the cost seriously wounded assassin.

Since Dr. Reid

= 55 -

SENNET-SIES OIL!

---

## Page 58

SURET-DIES DIF

1n being cailed as a prysician leamed the identivles of the ascasslas,

General Diaz said de could not ellow De. Reid to go free.. General

"Dia= forced Dr. Peta to Furian refuge in Reid's house for four

of the assassins (Gereral Diaz, Antozio de la Naza, Salvador

Estrella, and Foberto Pastoriza). The otcer assassins went their

separate days.

Withia hours after entering Dr. Reid's douse, General Diaz

and his three companions began to manic. (it might be noted here

that she assassins were so sure that the coum would follor and tzey

would all be national heroes that they had sade apsolutely know

plans for hiding or escape.) De la Maza called for Mrs. Reid and

it.

ordered Dr. Reid out of the room. De la Maza thereupon raped Mrs:

Reid 1a the presence of his comparions. Pasioriza and Estrella vere

highly Incensed over the rape. Pastoriza left the house soon after

& near-fight and a draw-veapons confrontation. Estrella left after

• few hours. Diaz and de le Maza left later and were killed in a

gunfight while resisting arrest. Both Pastoriza and Estrells were

captured, tortured, and confessed. The folloring are excerpes from

tie FBI's report of its Interviews with Ortiz, the SIM investigator.

.. after Pastoriza Left General Juan Tomas Diaz corposed

a teiegran eddressed to President Ronulo Petancourt o? Venezuels,

which seid,

"We tho have killed Trujillo urgently need your help

in order to flee the country. Signed General Juan Isas Diaz.'

- 56 -

SECRET - 2/83 ONLY .

---

## Page 59

14-00000

33081-215 3747

"Reid refused to take the telegran on the basis that he

had already i-plicated himsel? creately in tre plot tarough

no fault of his om and staie that de tought Diaz as trying

is have him iiiied sy asking bis to de this teiege to

Wita that de la laza cecaze so inseased trat he

pinched feld and Fushed him around and even went so far as to

then said that

"... tbe source mentioned tinat during the interrogation

oi the conspirators ino mentioned that United States officials

were involved,

they "ure all assed to identify the laited States

officials, bus zore of the conspirators "ere aole to identify

trese officials by nace and rentioned only that thay vere higa

functionaries of toe United States Deparsent Of State.

only nase of any terican official nich vas disclosed during

- 57 -

SECRET-EIRS ONLY

---

## Page 60

S8337--RS DILY

trese iuterrogations vas the nase Of American Couso1 5111 in

connection viin the talegram trac General Dias vanted to sead to

Betancourt.

15 *

... the

source roted trat the teleg-za never reachad

Consul Hill because Diaz tore in up dices toe incident in Dr.

Reid's house.

"(.., tice source commeated that the laterrogators

themselves did not celieve at this time that the U.S. Deparument

of State was in any way involved with the piot.

taey thought

the disclosures concerning the alleged involverent .

•• *as

simply a method by whica Amiaca induced Coneral Ronan to give his

approval to the plot. ..... is ras te interrogators opinion

at that timo that 1ê tha Morta Asericans bad veed involied in

this plot, the plot would bave seen nuch betser organized and

the coup would have succeeded.)

.. by the latter part:? Juce 1961, the investigation

bad pretty veil established ice identities of all the individuals

Involved in the plot, many of vace had been arrested and

interrogated.

The only ones not accounted for vere Luis Amiama

Tio and Antonio Imbert Barreras.

As previously reiated, General

Flan Iccas Diaz, Antonio de la Vaza, and Lieuterant Azado

Garcia Guerrero vere killed then resisting arrest.

(As this

poiat the source related that il General Diaz, Lieut. Garcia,

de le Maza, Amiana, and Incert bui been captured, and sade to

talk, 1t 1s certain that many sany sore prisosers would cave

been taken.)

"As far as the source is arare, toe only individuals who

were arrested as a result of the assassination of Trujillo, who

were prougat before the courts vere Tavares and General Rogan.

As far as the source is aware, no occer individual arrested iu

connection ith this plot ras brouiet before any Dominicas

court.l

- 53 -

SENEZ-DIES SILY

---

## Page 61

14-00000

SOMET- 223 C7

To recap:

a. Assistant Secretary of State Rubotton told J. C. King

on 28 June 1960 that the U.S. Goverment was prepared to particl-

pate in tae

overtaror of tre Trujillo regise to the extent of

providing a small nuncer of saiper rifles for the renoval of

sey irujillo people from the sone. General Cabell, as Actiag

DCI, On 1 July 1900 approved delivering 12 Springfield rifles to

the Dosinican dissidents by air drop

The rifles

were never delivered.

B. On 10 February 1901 the chiel of station cabled a

suggestion that one small-size, high-fire-pover weapon be

forwarded in each pouch. This suggestion was not acted upon.

= 59-

SESNEr-DIES ONLY

a,haatri mind" into the

aris demia.

---

## Page 62

880157-

3 017

c.

On 17 March 1951,

& request

of Consul General Dearbon fur tze poucoing of three 38 caliber

Smith and lessor Special pistols for ¿eilvery to key rembers

of the dissident group. Headquarters vas preparing to pouch

the pistols but apparently did not do so. There is no indication

in the INDEED operatioral files that tce pistols were actually

pouched. The request for pistols appears to have been overtaken

by a subsquent request for susachine guns.

d. On 26 March 1961 the station caoled a request for

permission to pass three sent-automatic M-1 carbines plus

ammunition to

The carbines and ammunition

vere in the consulate, having been left by departed naval personnel.

The station requested that headquarters pouch magazines.

Head-

quarters approved passing the carbines and ammunition and pouched"

the magazines. The cable authorizing passing the carbines was

released by the DD/? (Bissell).

The station cabled that the

carbines vere passed to

on 7 April 1961.

of the dissidents, gave the carpines to

temporary safekeeping.

at the request

for

later recovered tce carbices fron

and gave them to Antosio de la laza, who reportedly kept

•- 60:..

STRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 63

PT-35 01

them in the trunk of his autosobile.

It is probable that at least

one of the caroices was taken to the scene of the assassination

by de la Maza, but ie bave no evidence that Itias actually used

in the scoting. Ortiz, the SIl Lavestigator, told the FBI that

the assassins who were apprehended and interrogated spoke only

of the flrlaz of a saved-off shotgun, revolvers, and pistols.

e.. While at headquarters

for consultations in early April

1961, Chief of Station

cridently prevailed upon

headquarters. to pouch four M-3 submachine guns and ammunition

to the station. The submachine guns were priched and arrived

at the station on 19 April 1961. Headquarters cabled the stetion

on 17 April that the submachine guns were not to be passed to

the dissidents without additional headquarters approval.. Despite

repeated pleas from the Chief of Station and from the Consul

General, Washtagton continued to refuse authorization to pass

them. We think 1t 1s safe to conclude that the submachine guns

vere never gassed to the dissidents.

A final, and rather sorry, footnote: We do not know the

motivations of men such as:

Amiana Tio, and Antonio Imbert. The SIM Interrogations of the plotters

it captured revealed that they were not greatly sotivated by a desire

61

SECRET-SIES OHLY

---

## Page 64

DONET- DIES ONC/

to live in a free and democratie repubile. Most of then were seeing

vengeance or personal ga17. Generai Pozaa, ico ids to have carea over

and for an interto government, adaitte that he had bad no intention

of persitting iree elections. He had placed to establish himself

as the tea Losinican "strongban" replaving Trujillo. Ceneral Juan

Tosas Diaz was bitter over barlag kees publicly disgraced by Trujillo

and then cashiered from tce army. Astonío de la Maza also had a

personai grudge•

ils bro-ser, Cesario, had been killed by the

Trujillos to conceal his and thei- participation in the slaying

of Gerald Murpay In the Galindez case. Host of the otbers also

had personal reasons for wishing Trujillo dead.

50

SEGRET -DIES ONLY

---

