104-10127-10196)

eu 104 ; 4)

RIG, R.L,EASBY

MT CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: 24 ea 1964

ISTR: Commo SECRET FILE: @-259)) 8593 wt
Chrmo (Dummy) | ctassiricarion | 6S

ROUTINE IMMEDIATE

|_| pererres kx priormy | TO aie
ry ° | OPERATIONAL | inians | f, f '(@ 2

TO PRITY DIR INFO,
RYBAT GPFLOOR

REF: DIR 51937 (IN 2363)

1, STATION UNCLEAR AS TO PURPOSE Bo BY PUBLICATION

SA
PHOTO OF PERSON NOT EVEN INVOLVED Mi “CASE: SINCE OSWALD

A

MOTHER HAS NO COPY OF PHOTOS SHOWN HER, SEE NO NEED PUBLISH

PHOTO SHE COULD NOT EVEN PRO¥: HAD BEEN SHOWN HER, SEEMS

DUBIOUS THAT SHE WOULD QUERY. ABSENCE IN REPORT OF PHOTO

SHOWN HER SEVERAL monta Rion, WHICH DOUBTFUL SHE COULD

IDENTIFY AS SAME PIC aie ASE. IN UNLIKELY EVENT SHE DID

QUERY, THIS WOULD PERSTO PUBLIC CONCEPT OF HER SHREWAISHNESS,
2. IF AS MEXI areas TO BELIEVE OF ODENVY SHE SHOWN

SPREAD OF CROPPED PHOTOS ALL OF WHICH TO APPEAR, NO OBJECTION



rony 5
1 1306 : eae
( . % f
ORG: '
axr CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare, :
DISTR SECRET FILE:
Page 2. CLASSIFICATION ~
DereRReD | | priory | Ee men
| | OPERATIONAL | inaca |
ROUTINE |_| “hMMEDIATE | i
LGa a
TO INFO, CITE

: ria
HERE TO PUBLICATION REF PHOTO, IF THIS INCORRECT AND THIS
SOLE PHOTO SHOWN HER AND TO BE PUBLISHED AGAINST MEXL
WISHES, REQUEST EXACT ACCOUNT OF WEAROSENYY TOLD HER.

2
¥ PUBLICATION WITHOUT

3. CANNOT PREDICT SECURITY EFFEC:
ANSWER PARA 2, VIRTUALLY CERTAIN ALL ASPECTS OF REPORT AND
AFTERMATH WHICH AFFECT MEXICO WILL GET WIDE PRESS PLAY

HERE, IF ANY INDICATION TO RS OSWALD THAT NU PHOTOGRAPHED

SAME TIME HER SON IN MEXYNQ' UNLIKELY SHE WOULD SO STATE TO
PRESS, IN THIS CASE». BpLeve ALL REAL ESTATE AROUND TARGET
INCLUDINGALL THREE GS HOUSES WOULD GET VERY CLOSE
ATTENTION AND POSSIBEY SOME JIARASSMENT. LOCAL LEFTIST PRESS
CERTAIN TO TAKE UP CRY. DIPJ.OMATIC PROTEST COULD FOLLOW,
AND THIS COULD EASILY TRIGGER FORNOFF INSPIRED POLICE
INVESTIGATION NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH STATION COULD NOT FORESTALL
WITHOUT PREVIOUSLY ALERTIN LITEMPO/8 AND LITALK/I AND
THROUGH THEM A VARIETY OF WTIIERS, ABOVE PROCESS COULD ALSO

8B;
pe CONCEIVABLY BE TRIGGERED) ibIBCT OF REF PHOTO SEEING IT
COORDINATING OFFICERS

® SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING



Pree >

TOMs 130¢ (4)
mo 5 . ( v
. be 970 (
RUG.
cam CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE:
ISTR: SECRET FILE:
Page 3. CLASSIFICATION
i] oerraren | |. priory | TO jensen |
Oc | | OPERATIONAL | iwmacs | :
Li ROUTINE || IMMEDIATE | | |
TO INFO, CITE ~~
HOGER
AND MAKING PUBLIC STATEMENT TO CLEAR SELF. CONCOMITANT
LIKELIHOOD IS THAT PBRUMEN AND VARIOWS.N¥XIS DELEGATIONS

S350
WOULD ALSO BECOME MORE WARY OR REQUEST INVESTIGATIONS,

i
|
i
|
H
Sr i
4, STATION CONFIDENT NEITHER WG-NOR WARREN COMMISSION |
é
“Sy ;
WISH INCUR ABOVE RISKS, HOWEVE2IF IMPOSSIBLE SUPPRESS |
Se |
PUBLICATION STATION WISHES FOSEWARN BASEHOUSE OPERATORS
SS
Sr 2a
FOR HOSTILE REACTIONS, WILE CHEAR ALL THREE AFFECTED BASES
Benes . 1
es ‘ t
OF ALL TECH EQUIPMENT FORIQDEFINITE PERIOD JUST PRIOR TO i
c ‘Sid ; i
PUBLYATION, £S

5. MAY STATION ASSUME NO MATERIAL ORIGINATING LIFEAT

OR LIENVOY TO APPEAR? we

6. STATION WOULD APPRECIATE EFFORT TO DELETE PHOTO
i ~’FROM PUBLICATION,

END OF MSG

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RLIE. SECRET W.C.CURTIS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

- OUTGOING

GOUUFLG.

