# 104-10178-10141

## Page 1

104-10178-10141

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 : OPERATIONAL INFORMATION}

UCTIOVS ТО САЗ ОПРІСАА

880, 00.

@+ 898126

to:

approval

Де е

•sta she apo

* ₽#

P$U909vn

AMICE-31%

SECTION A

CONTACT AND

DEVELOPHENT

INDICATE MUO, INIA, MILNE, ANY, ANO AT UNON BUBILES DAS DINST CONTACIEO dR DEVELOOdO.

Contacted by Keith G. Bongirno in May 1964 when Subject was.

debriefed after his trip

to Venezuela for May Ist celebration

and CODESA @ Congress®

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MICROFIMED

6EB 1 2 1965

DOC. MICRO, BIA

NINETE SUBICATE CENTO DUER DU.SALO ANO 18 A SECURE MANNER TO ANY.

ASIDLE CASE DIENCEO FON

InDICATE 10 WOn.

Subject can be turned over to any Spanish speaking case officer.

CASE GOOSECON

•EDO, GIOR GAMES DO PICA THEN MATO

Subject knows Bongirno as Mr. Johns, and AMCLAITER-I in true name.

10.0a

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRE!

PASTIYATIGA DEO CONTROS

AGrog no trarion le dorado, dl postelo duro eudo

Subject seems to be a genuine sariot and stronely anti-A TUC 1.

His father is an old time Conmunist transport worker (now retired

and apparently had a change of heart) and

Subj seems to have couples

to try so undo his

fathers" wrorgs,

Subject anbitious and career

IODICATE WAT CORTADE, lO 1NY. CHISTA QUEN TUR BUDOREE. (AB

040U5®

@ПДIĐВД.І

Through the salary he receives fron AMICE. If Subject perforns.

"well in his mission of penetratia? CLASC, and an additional amound

paid under the tatle for his services is reconrended.

If Subject

joins CIASC also an adjitional pyrent (besides his CLASC salary)

should be contemplated.

SECTION 0IE

•. COVER USEO NY DUBINCT AND CASE DIFICEN IN POCIN MERINAH

Safehcuse.

COVER USEO EN SUBULCT IN DETAININE NES INTORNATION ANO IN CONTACTING NIR INFORANTE. ..

As a menber of JOC since 1947 and always closely connect with CLASC.

Especially in view of job offer and afiliation of his organization

PODICATE SERVICE DE MICH SUBJECT TORRI HE (OTE MON) dEO CORRiON. (ORT) *i* by CLASC.

Subject knows. the Agency he is horking for.

SECTION iN

INTELLIGENCE COMMICTICHS AND TRAINING

.

ANDARAN S-DIICT»$ A50N PAST ON PRISINT CORMICUION DITA DAY OINIO INPELLIGENCE SIRVICE.

INDICATE TOE ENTENT

NA

Р. 48%Y OТ8 19000 101668 (8800980

PODADOTES, OCIONDO) N00 SONO DO SUBJECT-S IRISENT INTERRIGENCE ACTIVARES.

AMICE

rembers AMOT-20 and AMICE-3 Know that Subject has to check

on possible conmunist penetratior in CLASC, but ignore ans specific

mission entrusted to subjeçt.

None.

ВЕСТОМ У

COLLABORATICO METLATIAL

PiNO D O001@ DUDORES MILO DI MODO BIONDO NO CCRRATUASTA DIPA ACONDE DO MTS ICOS-OGE ON BAST

8+80 8-8

Que Covernment of liberaica FERlor lossibly any latin American

coternest which will

to the Cuban liberation, however,

1n coubeful ay rustect unicubredlo linous that se are the

588498 "4e9".

SICEET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

100+6098 D0RE116

SECRET

CA:IONS FOR OPARO OPERATIONI

CBAINICATICNE ODESASS I SINCER NICO CERO CONCEIT AS

Public speatine, labor training, lasor organizer.

COMAN I THEN TS

ВЕСТІС# #

CommodItors.

-It is proposed to continue "to pay subject his regular salary.

Will be erployed by CLASC in addition to

the salary tuxthe receivec

from CIASC, subject should receive an additional arcunt from us.

No prozises were sade to subject.

ЗЕСТІОЙ ЖІ

CE AND SECURITY

I-, PADICATE IN FIELO ASINCIES DOS GIELO FILES DITH INICH SUBJECP'S NAME MAS DEN CORCHIO AND THE REBUSES.

ODENVY and it'l files.

BAAE

BUBJECt.

•WAVE files.

OPERATIONAL AN.

14. DATE

BLES POLTICESIT OBTAINED.

cranted. 25хäмяеxяs

15 June 64.

COALUATE 5:8:268-5 CARDAI"9O.B8-108111"

AND SACURITY, CITING EDICEUCE MERE POSSIBLE.

Subject is dyna-ic, resourseful and gets

things done.

Good speaker-should

be used as

cropagandis: and organizer.

lias no patierce or flair for office

work.

e=bitious,

mants to be a & leader.

Has leadership qualities,

but

often "acks caturity and nas still lot to learn in field of diploracy and

humar. relations.

tell

liked, in general,

has

eremies because of his

"defection" as Plava Giron

prisoner. (Rex alfused return. Cuba sith rest o:

DICO SOBIICY NÃY MANE SECT INVOLULO AMID. MUST DE ELA LATEO ERIN

SECURITY N11

prisoners delegation sent io Miani.:

No indiscretions or violaricas of security known to the case officer.

SECTICE XII

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL MA9ITS

U58 C0 21200,80.15: C00M106. B0970L05..

NA

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SICKIGN.

18488874

SECRET

AYOCATISNM LATERESTS

& NA

SECTICH AIV

GENERAL

INDICATE

One Infe

I CURe 60e 309909101!

SOUL''S DOR STURA CHARACIODISTIES. DES SOCIOS OR COLLO MASS AS A MATIOR

Subject could

pass as a

native of several L.A. countries.

BRINIEBT:

THE THEN INESHMATIT

CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHE

Files and personal assessment.

DO PRO PARTS I AMO DO BAS OBTAINER DU RESEARCO, CLANORIOIOE

ASSESSUENT, MILES.

•"FURLOS DETIC IS REQUIRCO, "P AND MNEM TERGIN

PLEASE EXPLAIN.

NA

SECTION XY

EMERGENCY COMOITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGENCATS

GAME TULA DATA'S IS, OSCOGGITION SIGNALS, 9/80 OHERE COURO CONTACT BE MI:EI BURT REDA PIORS COULO INDIVIDUAL

NA

SECTION XVI

MISCELLAMEOUS OPERATICHAL CATA AND REMATES

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

OPEDATAON AL®

con tact

WILD DD 600IAEI10 A1000E.

2M8 Pul

Subject represented AliCavon several international labor events,

made LA tours contactina

labor leaders, lecturing on situation

PBRUMC"eRIKR workers under RNgYUl regine and proroting the boycott against

nations trading with - PBRUMEN.

INDICATE NOD'ANO INDU MON SUBICCT OSPAINI ANtONNATOOE.

Fron labor leaders and workers as an exile PORUMEN labor leader®

INDICATE MAT NOI DIEN TOLO SUBIACE AB TO TUA BISPOSIVION DE INFORMSTION NE CUMUTALE.

Subject reports to ua but the disposition of the information he

furnishes was never discussed.

dETAIL

SUOJECTO$ PROPOSTO FA ON CA TYPE USE O

If employed by any international labor organization

of our stations,

subject can supply information regarding labor

organization, personalities,

inter-relationship etc.

be useful in

a similar capacity in liberated PBRUMEN.

S. DETAIL BUDECI-S PROPOSIO PP-PA TIPE USE ON DUTICS.

Subject is a good

speaker and worked as JOC propagandist. Fe can bel

used in PP operations in the labor field. Subject was annx a member

of the Brigade 2506 and exceessed desire

to be used in pr operations

if the opportunity arises (against ANTHÜC-" regime target).

24

SECT 1OH VID

24 PROPOSEO L

CA OPERATICHAL ACTIVITY

ORTAIR SUBDEEP'S

TUPE SONTASI CÃ SOSCARICRES USE:

A. AMERE SUBIECT 1S AN OFFICIAL MEMBER DO A!

29

NA

OFFICIAL MENDIA O8 AN DOVOER AGENEY:

HA

SECTICA VIAI

AGENCY RELAT: OUSMIP MITH SUGUECT

ReTtante digiale68 +6. 890888. 9996888 060888-86849494809. 80 ar. 88909

Bensiero ace ves aironthly salary via AICk payrollo Knows only

SECRI.:

39T0

---

