19 June 1963
SUBJECT: Renewal of Project LIFEAT for FY 1964

The attached LIFEAT Project Renewal Request, as prepared
in project. outline form by the Mexico City Station, is
forwarded for approval.

1. Objectives:

The objective of this project is to provide,
through a telephone tap operation, information
on the activities of selected individuals and groups in
response to both Station needs and Headquarters requests.

2, Agente:

8. LYIEMBRACE-8 who normally functions under the
MKCHARITY Project was actively employed in the technical

-phase of the- operation during..the home leave period of ..

principal outside case officer, David M. WILSTED.

b. During the past project year, 5 indigenous
basehouse keepers wero dropped from the project. LIFEUD-14
and LIFEUD-17, a warried couple, decided on separation and
eventual divorce, thus making the continuance of thoir

basehouse keeping duties impossible. LIFEUD-22 and LIFSUD-23,

on and sother, occupy a baswhouse that was originally
intended to be used for LIFEAT but is being used only in
another operation. LIFEUD-27 was granted a POA during
the project year but was never recruited,

¢. Throe now agents have been employed since the
last project renowal, LIFEUD-24 is an old friend of
WILSTED's who will be used as a basehouso keeper and trans-
lator nlong with LIFEUD-26 who is his wife. LIPEUD-25,
the wife of LIFEUD-4 had been inciuded in her husband's
clearance but has now received her own clearance as &
basehouse keeper.

3. Changes:

a. Other than the personnel changes described in
paragraph 2.above, there were no organizational changes in
the project in the past project year. At this time no



ae

organizational changes can be forseen for the coming project
year. :

b. Funds requested for FY 1964 total $83,808
compared to $99,000 grantod for use in 1963. A great part
of the reduction of $15,192 is due to the fact that the
Station programmed no new equipment purchases for the
coming year, at

4. Intelligence Production:

Although the emphasis of tho LIFEAT Project is
on Station operational support, the project through May 1963
8 totally or partinlly responsible for 31 pesitive infor=
mation reports of which 29 were disseminated, Of the
dissemtnations, 13 involved the activities of Juan Jose
AREVALO Bermejo or his followers,

§. Effectiveness:

The LIFEAT Project is a model telephone tap
operation. During the last project year LIPEAT continued
to actively support the operationn of the Station by
providing leads and information on selected targets.

In addition to this mission the project provided on a
regular basis valuable inforgatton on active Soviet tatell-
igeace officers, the Polish and Yugoslav official install-

“ ations and personnel, solected Cuban personnel (10 Linos),

American Communists in Moxico, Moxican leftiats and, exile
groups in Mexico, In the latter field the tntensive
coverage of Juan Jose AREVALO Bormejo was particularly
revarding. It is believed that tho support provided other
Station operations, tho CI/CE information and leada, the
ability of the LIFEAT operation to cover senst-
tive targets without revealing Station interests to
well juntify the oxponditure of funds,

time, porsonnol and the security rink.

8. Problens

In the past year as in the past few yeara the
greatest problems have concerned the security of tho operation
and equipmont., The current problems conter on two devel-
opments:

a. The Mexico City telophone system is continually
being modernized. Installation of new underground
ia cables replacing the olc overhend lines reduce access
to target lines. Tne Telephono Company in keeping


closer track of the assignments of its telop!
Linewen thereby reducing ‘the mobility of tho

aH EEEEETEEES SEES SUEEETEE ESSE EEGESEEEETEEESHSESOTESEE

sata b. A government investigation which is uader
way alloys investigating crows to enter any distrie
bution box and check back on any connection in the
box to see if it is actually in use. On one occasion
a rang back on a spare which was being used by

All LIPEAT porsonnel have been trained to take
whatever action would be nocesary to prevent, or negate
tho effects of a security flap. Vor details of the
problems faced and the precautions taken by the Station,

_, 800. paragraph 14 of the attached Project Outline.

7. Liaison:

Not applicable

8, Interagency coordination:
Not applicable

It ts planned that LIFEAT will as in the past
provide valuable information on a continuing basta on top
priority targets and at the same time remain flozible
enough to be employed in aupport of other Station projects
fxatnst targets of opportunity. LIPEAT has the capability
of reactivating its coverago un tie important targets now
boing covered by tho ILIENVOY Project tf the
latter should have to be discontinued for any reason.

10, Funda:

Suffictont funds have boon programmed in the WH
Division's FY 1964 budget for tho LIPEAT Project.

11. Recommendations:

It 4s requested that Projoct LIFEAT be approved
for FY 1964, 1 July 1963 through 30 June 1964, 1a tho
amount of $83,808, i i

