# 104-10171-10220

## Page 1

104-10171-10220

* June 2060

MENCRANDUN TORA ActInE Director Or central Intelligence

vLA

SUBJET

8 Depaty Director (Plane)

& Coversation between President Lopcs Mateos of Masleo

and tro lilnston Scott, Chief of Stalloo, Merleo

RETERINCE : MAXI 5683 (18-19514), dated 8 Sure CO

This sonorandas contalas a sucted81o0, la P'aragraph 3o for pha

connideration of the sca.

on the nicht of 1 June, Premident Lopes Mateos requested AI. Ecott

to Intora "bin 500d triend, Preelden Elsenborer, " of EDe Polloulsor

A. That Abe presiueat 16 @ friend of the Volted Stasel, "Dos ooly

Doesuse of necesalty but of senuide desire and ideoloca".

Bo That the Imitation lo Preaident Dorticon of Cuba van extended

tro were after di ma Incleated toss vorticos ma salsa to saxico

"on bie oua", through the taxican Ambassador in Cuba.

That be will not lorite Fidel Castro to Harles even though Cuban

mbassador JoBa Astonto Portuando told President Loger Hateos &bat

Darticos will request an imitation for Castro.

3. President Lope% Mateos aleo eked tSat President Enenbover bu

snorted that be lu delicited that a deciaion hao nou breu onde to set sia

24/08 CHAtTO J THE DEI DAY VIAL tO IAPOTa EDe PIRAldOne of 8De aboTe.

President Lopes Nateos vul Indirectly leforMed Of CIA SalTatIOnA

sOlDe s0 ank hin so do 10. 1. icott muszested tat

18 6De Me ISCan PreEIdent

DOLpOd. ¿IA tO AChIèTO tbe OverLarOU Of SastrO, hO MoUld Dot BATI tO deaL sItt

tbe probion of intlag ContrO dO KesseO.

24

Ji Co Kind

Chief

Nestern Henlapbore Divialon

CC$

3/PJ

---

