# 104-10130-10085

## Page 1

104-10130-10085 •

* SECRET

1 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Watergate Incident--Frank Anthony Sturgis!

Request to Contact

CIA

1. At 2130 hours on 31 January 1974, the Director of

Security telephoned the undersigned at his residence,

instructing me to contact Mr. Arthur J. Brew, Special Agent

in Charge, Miami Field Office.

The Director of Security

stated

that the Director of Central Intelligence had

communicated with him and directed him to

insure that dr.

Brew contact appropriate Agency personnel in the Miami,

Florida area

and tell them that if Mr. Frank Anthony Sturgis

calls one of their offices for purposes of meeting with

Agency representatives, that Mr. Sturgis should be told to

contact ine Federal Bureau of Investigation or the Watergate

prosecutor, Mr. Leon

Jaworski.

2.

The above information was relayed by telephone at

2155 hours, 31 January 1974, to Mr. Brew in Miami, Florida.

Mr. Brew stated that earlier on 31 January 1974 at 1130 hours,

Mr. Joe Joyner,..

Spectat Agent in Charge,

Department of State,

Sacurity Office, Miami, Florida, had called him and told him

that Mr. Sturgis had called Mr. Joyner in an attempt to

arrange an appointment with Agancy representatives.

At that

time, Mr. Brew stated that he had told Mr. Loyner that that

would not be possible.

3. Subsequent to my conversation with Mr. Brew, I

dictated a memorandum

for the record

to the security Duty

Officer at 2202 hours on 31 January 1974.

4.

On 1 February 1974, Mr. Brew confirmed that he had

given Mr. Joyner the above instructions regarding referring

Mr. Sturgis to the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the

Watergate Prosecutor, at 0725 hours that morning.

In addition,

Mr. Brew stated

0835 and 0840 hours, respectively, he

had similarly briefed Mr. Lawrence Sternfield, Chief of

Station, Western Hemisphere,

Chief, Domestic Collection Office, Miami:

rield and

Miami, and Mr Both Messrs. Stern

sidied io Mr. brew that they had already

SECRET

2

a:041112

---

## Page 2

neen similarly briefed be their

respectar readderrders

offices, and

that tir.

cad steiad that he vas

negructions to scentuy nis telephone throudous

the day of

1 February

7974 in the event Mr

sturgis called.

Mr. Brew also stated

that he had briefed Chief, Auch, ir.

Thomas Shedd regarding the above specific instructions.

For possible interest: it is to be noted that

Mr. Brew informed me that Mr. Sturgis had stated to lir

Joyner that his reasons for wanting to arrange an appoint

ment with Agency representatives was to discuss maters

relating to Mexico and worth korea.

Stanton F. Ense"

Deputy Director of sacurity

Personnel

security and investigations

SECRET

---

