104-10014-10057|

DOC. MICRO. SER. )-P
+ SECRET

FER 241 1992

a i
in Saree
—
ich | Ee

Acting Chief, Soviet/East European Division

MEMORANMIGROPREMEREPUty Director for Operations

FROM:

SUBJECT: Soviet Volunteer Allegations Re Oswald
Involvement in Kennedy Assassination %/+2:0 6-749 «/¢

1. On 31 December 1991, a Soviet,volunteer to
Station, Boris Vladimirovich ZHURAV! 7 Claimed tha ie
Harvey OSWALD was in fact a Ukrainian KGB intel source (code
name Velktor) who had additionally been a controlled agent

of the UKGB. ZHURAVLEV stated that OSWALD had actively
conspired with two former US presidents to assassinate

former President Kennedy. ZHURAVLEV when pressed could not
provide any additional information. This information was
transmitted to Headquarters in a staff channel message with —_
no LIMIT or RYBAT control. We-have taken immediate steps to -
have this message removed from the message system to prevent
further access to it.

2. As background, ZHURAVLEV is an unvetted volunteer
who walked-in to|____|Station on 30 December claiming to
be a former KGB officer with access to leads concerning
Western agents of the KGB. The above information was
obtained during the second meeting with him when the Station
was attempting to obtain details on the alleged leads to
which he ¢laimed access. When. pressed to provide
information, he had only one vague agent identification in
Canada and para one above information. He was not able to
provide any other leads despite claiming some twenty years
of service in the KGB.

3. Based upon information xveceived to date, we
(fonsider ZHURAVLEV to bea highly questionable source.
describes him as being stressed out, shaking and in
fairly rough physical state; he was considered to be of no
operational interest and to not have further intelligence
value. He departed the Embassy without incident and no
further contact is anticipated.

4. As regards para one allegations, we have
substantive information from IJDECANTER (attached) which
outlines Oswald and wife's KGB connections and emphatically
denies any KGB involvement in dispatching Oswald to
assassinate President Kennedy. We have no information from
any Soviet intel source indicating that the KGB had contact
with Oswald after he returned to the US or that he conspired
with any other element in the assassination. For your

S\¥- $9777

[RECORD copy] 75 (kee G


13-00000

* SECRET

SUBJECT: Soviet Volunteer Allegations Re Oswald Involvement
in Kennedy Assassination

background information IJDECANTER was a Second Chief
Directorate KGB officer whose bona fides were fully
established.

Attachment:
As Stated

ec: DC/CIC w/att

SECRET


13-00000

REMARKS Our records indicate the attached document is
classified into a file currently charged to you/your See aaschisecedtee)
office. jeunes Piatienanigtain

PERMANENT / / TEMPORARY /-—7

__Please file this document in the
201. "7 sussect f/ 7 prosect / -/ file since
it may be of immediate value.
If the file is no longer held by your office.

return this coversheet together with the attached
material and fill in the following:

CHECK IF UNABLE TO LOCATE /
SUGGEST POSSIBLE LOCATION:

DO NOT use this form Pride bbapaie Of approvals, concurrences, disposals,
FROM: (Name, org. symbol, Agency/Post)

OSG/CFB Phone No. A IEYE
: son-t0z OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rev. 7-76)
U.S. G.P.0. 1977-241-530/3090 GSA

Prescribed
FRUR G1 CFO 101-11.206 | 0F-2
