1009610047]

15 May 1972

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

SUBJECT : Meeting with Hal Hendrix, HW May 1972

l. Hal Hendrix called my home on LO May, saying that he was

in Washington and wished to see me, Arrangemert 6 were later made te
mect him in downtown Washington at a street corner at 8:00 am on

ll May. I picked him up as scheduled, and after driving around awhile
we had breakfast at the Marriot Netel in Rosslyn, after which I drove
him to the airport so he could catch the 10:36 a.m, plane to New York,

2, Hendrix had a number of points to convey, but no:
were of such irmportasce fox him to have made a trip to W
just te seame., Therefore, his explanation seems
in Washington basically to see Jerry Nannifin of the
to discuss a lecd on who might heve leaked iTT docurnents to Jack A
Hendrix explained that he was recently told by a "Caribbean ruffian"
named Fnu Goodfriend that the pereon who furnished the IT! documents
te Jack Anderson was Irving Davidson, an old fiend of Andcreon who some
yearn ago had once set aside a desk in his office for Andercon to use on
occasion. Goodfriend said that the picture of Dita Beard with a aumber
of hex Washington contacts publighed carly in the Ii T scandal days had
included Davidson somewnere in the group. Davidson is d wd as 3s
lobbyist for one or more in American Governments as well as for
Isreel. Hannifin is considered a very knowledgeable and trusted friend
by Hendrix who wanted Hany a whether Davidson might in
fact be a scurce of Anderson Hannifin's initial impression wes
that this was a xemote possibility, but he said he would c k around and
try and talk to Davidson himself to see whether he could a rise on
the question of LTT. Hendrix enid he carne away from the rmecting with
Ranni prelly well convinced that the lead to Davidson as the source on
ITT documents was probably not a good one.

A

nc of them



! i : ~2-

3, Hendrix commented to me thit the general feeling in N.Y.
in that there may be two penetrations in the Washington office, two in
the N.Y. office, and one in their Cleveland office. He did not claborate,

- 4 Hendrix made the following comments about the ITT/Chile
documents: :
A. He was aware that Raymond Brittenham, whom he

dencribed as a senior Vice President and a bit of a fuddy-duddy

who enjoys Harold Geneen's confidence, had first ecen John McCone
and then come to, Washington recently to talk with Agency represents
about the ITT/Chile documents, “One proposal that Brittcnham had
thought of discuesing with the Agency was that several sensitive
ducuments be turned over to the Agency for safekeeping. He did
not scem to know whether this had actually been discussed by |
Brittenham with the Agency, Hendrix czid that Prittenham had
diccugsed with the Agency what ITT might gay in the Senate
hearings, what the Agency might say, ete, (I. did notacknowiedge
having known that Evittenham mct with Ageacy sopresentatives,
saying that this was presumably 2 7th floor matter. He might not
have believed me, but I thought it better not lo confirra the fact

to hiry that a contact had in fact taken place since he apparently

did not talk to Brittenham himself about this. }

B. Fnu Schafer, the lawyer of the firm in Washington
retained by ITT as counsel for the expected Senate hearings on
Chilean activitics of L£T, has told LTT officials that he thinks
the timing and intensity of the Senate seub-commiitee interest in
the Chilean activities of ITT will depend on the general political
situation in the U.S,, particularly in Viet Nam. Schafer has been
: in touch with Pat Holt, the sub-committee aide.

: : C. None of the ITT. documents on Chile have been turned
over yet to the Senate sub-committee, The docurnents are still
being worked on by LTT. When pressed es to the quantity involved,
Hendrix said the total is about 509 documents,



«9 y) ce (3d

oa

D. The three documents Hendrix mentioned to mé at our
last meeting as being incriminating from the point of view of
documenting ITT funds of political activities in Chile have not
been destroyed. ITT's chief lawyer in N.Y. has told Hendrix
that while away ona trip recently, at least four young lawyers
in his office read these documents. He tried to transfer one
of the lawyers out of his office, and the man threatened to blow
the whistle on ITT over these documents if transferred. One
of tho other four lawyers feels equally strongly about these
documents. As a result, the documents cannot be destroyed.
It is not clear, however, whether ITT plans to turn thess three
documents over to the Senate. Evidentally 1TT had first hoped
to turn these documents over to the Agency for safekeeping in

preference to turning them over to tha Senate.

E. It has been determined by ITT lawyers that biacking
out proper names in docurnents before they turn the documents
over to the Senate sub-committee is vpermissable. The ITT
lawyers are now going over ali 500 documents to do this, concentra
on-the names of Chileans, If they finally turn over the three
sensitive documents te the committee, names of persons, banks,
and finding mechanisms will be deleted, but the basic purpose of
ITT funding Alessandri cannot bo hidden,

. ¥. In discussing these three decuments, Hendrix said
that thé man in N.Y. to whom ITT was to have paid the money for
Alessandri was (fnu) Orchard, a Chilean ernployed by UN Seeretari:
(eather than a member of the Chilean Mission to the UN}. The comp
through which the payments were to be made was the Lone Star
Shipping Company, (This agrees with information in the files).
Lacked whether the Swiss Bank account number for other trans-
actions was also listed there, and Hendrix looked puzzled and said
that no Swise Bank account was involved. WhenI pressed and
said ray understanding was that earlier he had told me money for
the Edwards group went through a Swiss account, he merely
said there were no references to that in these three documents,
Be then said one of the three documente was unfortunately a
miestage from Gerrity authorizing thet the Alessandri movement be
given “half the sum recommended by Hendrix,



5. Hendrix spoke by telephone to Berrellez on 9 or 10 May at
which time Berrellez reported on a meeting that day with EM@BRIG-2
in Buenos Aires, This was the first time that they had met since their
early April meeting in N.Y. Berrellez told fPWERIG-2 that ho had not
been able to make the deposit on the second $100,000 for reasons Hendrix
had explained earlier to me. [FWBHRIG-2 was concerned by this and asked
that ITT do everything possibie to sesume these payments since he had
money troubles, (Berrellez remarked, however, that GBP RIG-2 seemed
in very good spirts personally, and quite optimistic about the chances

H of the opposition in Chile). Hendrix plans to reopen the question of resumin
payments to the Edwards people in Chile when he gets back to N.Y. and
sees Gerrity,

.6, The U.S. manager of the ITT telephone manufacturing plant
in Chile slipped up to the States a faw days ago and reported that he
thought the government would be moving in on the ITT property very
soon, He had already been autherized by the company to send his’
furniture up, ITY is also asking Benjamin Holmes to come up te the

+ U.S, for a visit. I remarked that my recollection was that Holmes

was on rather good personal contact with President Salvador Allende,
and Jose Toja, but Hendrix commented that even Holrnes was now under
suspicion by the Government of Chile,

7, Hendrix heard yesterday from Bob Deach (phonetic) of the
Scripps Howard office in Washington that Ambassador Edward Korry had
left his position at OPIC and is now the president of a book seller's
associstion according to a press item which appeared within the last
‘two weeks. Hendrix was unaware of this and asked whether I knew
anything about it which I said I did not. . ere i

8, He had a rather interesting explanation of the by-play in
Chile on turning the ITT nationalization question over to the Congress to
decide. Berrellez reports that there has been a delay in Allende's
proposal that Congress handle the ITT nationalization because of
disagreement on how to procced, The fear of some hard-liners was
that the government was not being tough enough on ITT, Allende's intent
apparently is to make a proposal that the Congress would be forced to
reject thereby giving the Drosident a chance to calla plebiscite on ihe
issue which, being about ITT, he could not possibly lose. An interesting
thought.


("Lon")

the Avency. We has passed

9. The daughter of He
ce, who is applying f
nm exams and was to have an interview in W ington on li May
i m shortly afterwards, <A hitch hs
ered for some sort of a job in the
d the job has now been filled by someone

drix is engaged to es

mth

s developed

followed by a phy
S oto~

in that he wz
grephic fi
who ret
contract, probably to go to J.
@ contract status wou
some offer now bein
Agency, (Hendrix ciaimed
once worked for the| and that she has stuck to ha:

far ne employment gcos, Hendrix

f y con
i, but he has

story a
+) T said it

£ of thi

would be possible to che vhs u i jon was and to find out what the
Agency's ir i WEEE tov exyson, but that I could not affect

in any way nis irins heat iticns, Hendri:x

expre
offers.
on a contruct basis
capability could end up 2s a career employce with us, bul it
& ceilings, ete. at the time such tf
fied with this ar
acknow ve were any unsual ci
My impression is that Hendrix is net overly fon
respects him and would not t:

Jonathan G.
C/WHIC

pace easseye UnasEne
