# 104-10063-10008

## Page 1

104-10063-10008

UNCIASSIFIED

HERNIA.

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND ASCORD SHEET

COMFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUSJECT: (Optional)

Biographic Summary Report on: BAUMBACH, Charles R

EXTENSION

NO.

CI/OP

ROber

9477

TO: fOficer designation, room number, and

DATE

building)

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

DAlS

Ex-"/?!

26 July 1967

COMMENTS (Number euch comment so show from whom

то whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment

Prepared bytel

5.

s.o..iw.

Distribution:

1 - Orig. for Final Report

Typing

1 - CI Task Group Biographic

Summaries

1 - Subject File

5.

7.

"*.

13.

35.

15.

IN SSCAST

L CONIBEATIAL

AMY3RNAL

USE ONLY

7085

UNCLASSIFLED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

EX-171

26 July 1967

BAUMBACH, Charles R.

L. Charles R. BAUMBACH is listed as the Executuve Officer for

the Institute for Polley Studies la Wahlagton, D.G."

2. FBl reports reveal that Charles BAUMBACH of 1216 Eant 54th

Street, Chicago, Mlinois was an Assoclate Editor of New Ualveratty

Thought in 1961. New University Thought, located In 1961 at 909 Fast

55th Street, Chicago. Winois utilized a malling address of 5478 South

Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago: In the Spring 1961 lasue the editorial stated,

WE young Intellectual i students, and professionale, founded New

University Thought because we are dissatisfied with what we saw.

During March 196i, ten thousand coples of this publication were printed

l Praga Press, which ls the printing firm primarily concerned with the

printing of"Ludove NovlayLaad "Nova Dobal both as which are reported

to be Communtst-dominated publications.

The fles of this Agency reveal that in August 1962 New University

Thought pablished an abridged version of Pakistan Today. a Britishy

publication whose editor, Hansa Alavl (also spelled Alvl). Is well known

for his Communiot views., This abridgement, entitled "Pakistan: The

Burden of U.S. Ald", is described as easily the most damaging piece of

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

work to the U.S. Aid Program ever seen.

One of the Mesociate Editors, David Charles HAUPERIN

(201-28032i), the son of American Commuaist Maurice HALPERIN

(201-128561) wrote a letter on New Univeralty Thought letterhead dated

10 March 1961 to Albert MALTZ (201-005329) and his wife. Margaret.

both members of the American Communist Group living in Mexico.

Chirles HALPERIN had contact with both the MALTZ. and with Anna

and Noah SEBORER vhile ln Mexico City for the Christmas Holidays in

1960, Anna SEBORER, a suspected Soviet agent, and Noah SEBORER

tre both American Communists living in Mexico City.

3. Agency traces;

as indicated in the attachment. were negative.

Based on:

The Firat Three Years 1963-1966 a pamphlet

Of the Institate for Policy Studies,:1900 Florida

- Avenue N. We

Washington, D.C.

F'Bl reply to our Name Check 1253, dated

29 March 1967.

DBA -34660

- 05 March 19633

- CSCI-3/774935

225 February 1963

•HMMA -16639

cx10 March 1961

- KX-1526 MEMO dated 16 July 1963

Prepared by:

CI/Staff

25 July 1967

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRETI

Date: 26 July 1967

NAME CHECK RESULTS

Subject: BAUMBACH, Charles F.

Organization: Institute for Policy Studlea

DOB:

201 #:

OA:

Not Checked

Appl.: Not Checked

DC S: Not Checked

CCS:

Not Checked

O/S:

- (dated Z8 Apri: 1967)

FI/D:

Not Checked

S/R:

Zombie: Not Checked

SIG:

Not Checked

Key:

+ = Hit

?

= Possible

- = Negative

Other:

SECRET

---

