# 104-10218-10094

## Page 1

104-10218-10094

^...?"

SECRET

17 OCT 1962

FELORANDU: FOR: chiof, cI/OA

FROM

: Deputy birector of security (Investigations

and Oper tional Support)

SURJECT

3183 492

$216 264

lo tofurence 1s mie to your remorandum vated 21 September

1962 requestini an appociate invositzation of Su-juct In coc

noction with hur use

uncon an Oporational Approv.1 as an Informant

by WH/ 3 1n

Foxico.

Felerance

Is 2130 mado to our memorandums of

6 October 1960 and 1 Müy 2962.

As ve advised on 1 Ocüober 1962 i scarch of cur

Indicas

on Subject disclosed note-northy and derogatory information which

Is availablo cor revion in you ortice.

The Subjoct's Security

office filo consists of siree voluminius volutes wich include

the resulis of solygragh exaninaülons and technicit surrellances.

à chock of iRI on 1 October 1962 rafarred to nincocen til resorus

and lutters which more fornirded

to this agency.

A copy of the

FbI memorandum is utacred.

Is is assured

that

copies

of these

roports ind letiors are avallable to jour ordico.

In ties of the note-orthy ind questionasle information

reflected acov,

It is recommendod tart no contact bogond assesy-

ment be permitted it this time.

In view of the voluninous

Infor-

nation available on the sisject and subject's controversial

Duciaround, this orice vill not conduot ant alicilinal avesti-

ration on the subeat until he iraliale ito-dering and seross-

tory informition zas beon reviened tacrouchz.

FOR THE DIRECIOR OF SACURITI:

FICLT LE TIDO

Attachnent:

FBI memorandur

8/120

6806* 1

Eschodad tran asteratie

SECBET

---

