104-10180-10147) soe

) PATCH |
eo iia ci

a ce 21
Flold File No. 23-277/1-
— 7 att
Chloe of station, Hatana\ILO 1980
. a eee oa
cpergtional Taectd toe mOLTNS

1, FRQ Part IT

INDENING CAN #€ 1U0GED
BY QUALINED HQ DEE ONLY

Attached in triplicate is PRY Part II for Subjoct for whoa an Cperatlonal

Approval is requested.

Nelson L.

Attachnentt
FRY Part II (3 copies)

Diatributiont
7} = Neadquarters w/att h/v
2 - Flos w/att (single copy)

NL/fah
16 vay 1960

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

easier |

upp - rs



PERSOKAL RECORD ouestidnue’
PART UL = SPERSTIONTS INP CRATION

ation.
. Noraal ty.
8
LP eetned te document of cea,

Aenduedeena, of poseable) ond tee (2) com

be ace: te headquarters
1€ fe Reofenerters in PRO .
U1 information etter a4 10 wédsteonal apace requreed

TEATE wow, GWEN. BHEAE, ANY) AND GY OVSe SUBJECT HAE FLAS CORTACTEO GW OEWELOPED
Subject, a Suban by birth and an Anericon citizen by nsturaliaaticn, apriied

for employment in various «, Washington, D.C. This may have inclused

Headouarters itself but this is not ‘mown for certains nevertheless, bis applicstion

came to lieadcuarters’attentior, and the Station was alerted as to his cualificaticas,
Contact wes msde by Nelson L. Raynock, and subject was subsecvently recruited,

fe THOT CATE wwETWER BuBsECT COLD BF TWANES SutH QUIERLY AND IN A SECURE WANNER FO Auy MESPSAGIME CASE OFFICER O30
WAROLING. IF $0, INDICATE TO eHow, em te aan 0: hatintabe toad

Subject can te turned ever to any resoensitle case officer who nay be desira’
by the Statior

UIST OTwEA CASE OFFICERS m0 Wave WAVDLES SuONEET SOR WAS nome, GIVE SAMES BY wwieH EHEy MAE

6Cen Kwoen-

None.

2nd



: “Secret
SECTION Ve a Peet WORIvATi CN Tage
SO SSEnE gence elisa neh Ti iFaitng oe gt gs pare
eo

Prirarily ty a desire to do “intellirence= type" werk, There is little doubt
thst his selery xuxtad vayment, coming at a time when business is bad, is alse
sowreetated,

SHAT CONTROL, Uf anv, CHIGTH OVER Tue SUOIECT. (If me contol, or af there tno Fach of tons control

Subfect is an Amorican citizen, ‘His wife, bern and rsised. in the United
States and of “.S. stock, is also an Arericon citizen, the sare is true of
the children, There seems little liklihood that he weli jeopardize his
Anericen citisenship- his wife wuld probably leave hin,

plane.)

COVER
nan.

‘SECTION 410
4. COvER URED ov SUBJECT mmD CARE

ECR iw tweie we

: heetings are 6s clanzes-ine as possible under resent ogcratinr conditions in.
tana. If a need arises for cover, it will be that tre cas: officer is surveying

TROT CGE SE SELATET LYS Wr GAUL GR Gna ie Contacting wIS taFOewanTS.
Subject will handle about twe lerye informant nets, meeting with the P/A of
each net. They know he is a cutout, und also P/A en the cerits of compartmentation.

Br WMDLEATE BRaWICE FOR wwiGx SUQIECT THiNNS ME (Well work) (Le worhinaye
Subject knows that he is working for scme kind of .S, intellirence orpaniza=

tion, but thus far he does not know its identity.

SECTION I THTELLIGEMCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING
Te ExPcatw UOJECT'S RON PAST O8 PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SURNTEE,
SUCH COMMLC ETON 18 RHOM™Y OWERTEY.

None.

Tworeate twe exten?

Teeres PmETENT IeFELCIEEMEE ACTIVE TVET

TUtet ormts inotviouacd (Agents, eelatives, Teieads) en@ nuOw OF

Probeblv his wife. “er bnowledre however 4s very limited, and since subject
holds operational re tines in his apartment, which is very well suited for this
por-ore, it is assumed that he had to tel) ‘her something in crjer té satisty her
curiosity.

3 €xPatw any FAAWING BUBJFET Was WAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

Ne is now reseiving "spot" end “on the job" &

rene.

‘SECTION ¥ COLLABORATION POTENTIAL
WROHTATE OTWER FORLI@N POOL SWOILET COULD OF MOST LIKELY 10 COLLABOMATE wUTH BCEALSE OF MIS IDLOLOGY OF FAST

ASScerarioNs. GHPLAINS
It is not believed litely that the subject would colleberste .ith eny other

foreirn power,

2°
SECRET



3p]

a
epeett aceelees reat

TFET oy ce we ond taeests ee ta Te OF

Subsect nas not been uses cr contacted before.

T. WWOreATE wow AnD Feow eHow SUOIECT OBTAIN TAFORWATION.
See section I!I parayraph 2, Subject will contact the Al.Pal

ford

Ki net and APA

‘b HROECATE GUAT was BETH TOLO SURJECT AB TO THE DISPOSITION GF ImroRUATION HE FURNIOMEST

He bnows that the case officer uses it as a tasis for reports.

a UBJEETrS PeOPOED Ft ON Cr TWPE USE OM DUTIES,

le will detrie® and write up the intcllicence info sucnlied by the arents
with whom ne is olaced in contact ty the Stetion, ~He is also 8 stay behind arente

ou TPE Use Ow DUTIES.

7 DETAN SuRIECT"S PacroseD
None.

>
SECTION Vit POSED| low OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY
1 brary sunsect's Peceosen) TWPC GQRPAST Of GPRATIONN at:

zy

AL metne suBseer 15 aw Cortera MEwAER OF

8, HERE SUBLET 1S an OFFICIAL MEMBER OF An COVORE ACENCYY

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

SectiCe vitr
AUN NATURE 27 AGERCE MELATIONSHIP OETH SUBLECT, F.C. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE MUMBER, BEMLAERATION, TF aur: AGENCY

PERSONNE: anOuN TO ML OUECT.

There is nc srency relstionshio vith the subject.

7S 3

fs ~ SECRET


: i SECRET

AOVLeTNEs, EMENTS, UR Geet LE CON eam MLE WAGE
ons.

ote set

cae kno.

section © Conn HERTS

hs sd st as Pacrcsto to
Cowoorries, suesiey on

Subject has a starting salary of efx .300 tn Cuban pesos monthly, ©

SALARY, CHOICAT. Td @LERLY AMOUNT, IF ParwieT "0 BC WADE IN ExCuance

A METHOD, SPECIFY OND Give OCSAILS.

Connstarnte regarding evacuetion

fu ANY PROWISES, OTWLROISE WOT COVERED HEREIN, WADE FO SuBstCT. (EEample.
reek and fomely. )

No promises have been made to the Subject.

[SE=Ti0« xt CE ANG SECURITY
fi. teorcare tHe #r€LD AGENCIES AnD FIEND FILES SsTm ealGn SUBJECTS WaMe WAS OEEW CHECKED AnD IE WESULIS.

Station, ODACID and OUTHYY files have been checked,

TeOTeATE OiwEn IMVESTIGATIVE NEASURCS TAKEN TO VERIFY DICGWAPHICAL IMFORWATION FuKmiaHED UF SUOIECT:

None.

JA NOT PASvIStGuAL OPLAATIONAL APPROVAL Gu GPEWATIONAL AP> | 4. BATE DPPROVAL OBTAINED

Veereate enetmee
TS USE HAS OLEH PREVIOUSLY OaTAINED,

paava for suuut!

A POA has been rranted for Subject.
Sec rabiuity ann sUcueriv, Crane EviOENcE mEWE POsTTBLES

Evacuate SuepeeT'§ CHaRacTea,

subject apovars to be honest and relieble. He hes a etronj aporeciation for
security, He seems very ausptable to this type of work, ani it anseerg that he
has potential to become a food arent not cnly in Suba but wita future potential

tc servce in other Latin American countries,

TGAPLAIm AMY SITUATION OF ImONSCRI
CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VELePOINT.

Nene noted,

JON Im mmtCH SUBJLCT WAT wayE BEEH IMVOLYED wml HUST BL EVALUATED

‘SUBJECT"S PERSONAL MADITS if

MCTIOLN
1 USE OF Kraven, omuas. 6
Thus far, no vices of

grove, chew or ro around with wild women,

ty;

vosort heve teen netet, ve dows not ap-err to drink,

fe reratrs the stuitens intel stust
At have taurkt school but has,



NETERISTICS, ART Sucw AS mE COULD PASE #3

county Chom OME THAN MIS OH.

Subject wes born i
ef passes 33 8
retive of other Latin Am-rican

as natéve flueney in the Spanish Janruare.
eri gretaly with some srepar:tion could pass as a

10m 1m PRO
CMOUNCE OF OTHER MEANS.

PRI Pert 1 filled in at ‘sez

(Atee

- ge Stace tmaw ROUTINE ACTION 18 ACOU! AAS OnCy FERMIWATION OF SUBJECT 45 KFFEETLO. PLEASC EXPLAIN.

see Dare, “a9b Saray
Cnly rontine ection,

DHERGEASY Conss Them PCCERTACT APRANGENDATS
AE COULD CONTACT Bt mare:
passing the subj
alerted to a po:

Saat bea) -0Es COULD ImDIFIOUAL
ov his versenally
eak in contest.

_MISCELLanESuS SPCRATICHAL DATA AND REMARKS =

SECTION avi

None.

3e ericee

aprotRe

thls £

ie

7
