# 104-10069-10260

## Page 1

104-10069-10260

12/44C

10-173-55

Chief, Contact Divistor

Bioc Area

5 May 1905

Chief, New Gripans Office

The l-formation Council of the Americas, 620 Gravier Street,

New Orleans, Louisiana

70130

Ref. :

N0-152-05, support Brach (Richardson) memo of 20 April 905-10-151-05

55÷43

135263

1. The Information Council of the Americas (INCA)

of 620 Gravier Street,

New Orleans, Louisiana, was recently opened as a source of foreign intelligence

information on the radio broadcasting industry in Latin America. The current

program of INCA is primarily concerned with the dissemination of taped record-

ings of anti-Communist material, Called Truth Tapes, to certain radio broad-

casting stations in Latin America and North America for use as a weapon against

Communist penetration

the Americas.

Its headquarters are located at 620

Gravier Street, New Orleans, Louisiana

70130. You will find the names of its

officers, directors, and consultants given on the enclosed letterhead of the.

organization.

4/2/1410

2.

We have been in recent contact with Edward Scannel!

Butler, Executive

Vice President and Staff Director, and have received his assurances of itole

hearted cooperation in our agency's mission. Yesterday wa examined all of the

files of correspondence between Mr. Butler and personnel of various radio:

stations in 16 Latin American countries. In order to build up a market for

the Truth Tapes program in Latin America, Mr. Butler first obtained from the

appropriate consul in New Orleans a list of the radio stations in operation in

his country. He next wrote the administrative personnel of these stations

about the anti-Communist

purpose of INCA and offered to supply each station

with Truth Tapes. Those stations requesting them sere then provided with a

series of the tapes.

One or tip years later, Mr. Butler sent the participating

station a questionnaire designad to elicit information. about audience response

to the Truth Tapes program.

Copies of the first questionnaire and of a revised

one are attached for your information. Judging by the responses we read, the

INcA correspondence files will provide a limited amount of information; dated

19:* and 1955, on the identification of radio stations in Latin America which

are broadcasting Truth Tapes, their addresses, the names of key personnel, the

identification of stations not respondina to the inca offer, sizes of audiences,

and their responses.

In the case af-Uruguar. the exchange of correspondence

between ir. Butler and

Contained information aut

the political orientation of key radro personner in Montavideo 1i0-10671/.

This example, lorever, is an exception, since the files contain virtually no

detailed political information of sinificance.

# 5793

COry

F

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

Fine:

# 08743

RETURNIC CIA

Background Use Oniy

Do Nol Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14:00000 -

22000-

Chief, Contact division

N0-173-55

5 May 1965

3.

ir.

Butler mentioned vestorday that, inasmuch as he was again ravising

the questiomaire, he toulo velcone our suggestions noout additional topics.

• We

•suzesice questiong designed to elicit toohnical infomation about the station

and its equipment, such

as descriptions (manufacturer, type, model) of trans

mitter, receiver, antenna type and power, frequencies and frequency range, reli

ability of equipment, normal and emergensy power sources, remote pick-up arranger

ments, etc.

We stressed of course that none of these topics should be introduced

into the questionnaire unless Mr. Butler was convinced of their suitability for

his immediate purpose as well as for the long-tern propaganda aim of his organi

zation.

He stated that our suggestions were entirely proper and, in his opinion,

were reasonable requests that would not arouse the station manager's curiosity.

We pointed out to Mr. Butler that, while information/about key personnel and

their political orientation, about the station's administrative policies, etc..

was of prime importance to us, these subjects obviously could not be introduced

into the questlonnaire.

He agreed that It would be better to elicit such infor-

mation in another manner, as he had done with

Pbut because

of his very heavy responsibilities, he did not have time to develop similar

sources of information in each of the other 15 countries.

4.

It occurs to us that you or a possible consumer could assist us by

suggesting other appropriate topics for Mr. Butler's consideration in the revision

of the questionnaire.

He shall appreciate whatever help you can give us in this

regard.

S. In the meantime, as soon as all of Mr. Butler's current correspondence

has been properly filed, we expect to extract the appropriate information trom

the folders and to present the material in a series of 00-B reports.

LLOYD A. RAY

DABrandao/gri

Enclosures

oc: Services Branch

---

