# 104-10210-10017

## Page 1

104-10210-10017

44148.

i. 15.

DATE.

6.088

T.

Ryan

C, SB/CI/K

6991

26 March 1968

м#.

SB8

X

RID COPY

debras-Beations

SECRET

BERN INFO GENEVA

REDTOP ICIMPROVE AEDONOR

REF: BERN 2340 (IN 77131)

#390459 53813

9918 49083.

SECRET

118041098

11 846-08999

NO ALEX 19 MINISTERD 74-6-528/3

11 89ae

1870:

.ve...

Err8, cralops. F...

flInz

"Preterence ruminess)

this and prio

2/ 2 117.

CITE DIRECTOR

8,6 4 0 5

AEDONOR REPORTS MENTIONED REF NOT PERTINENT TO ANY

INTERESTS, BUT SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE PLS

FORWARD AND WE WILL MAKE APPROPRIATE REPLY.

END OF MESSAGE

LACIEUR SOV

•BILEASING OFFICER

AC/sB/0/80/

C/E/SAAS

CCORSIRAVING OFFICERS

SECRET

GHOUT 1

c/sB/CY S: Kupanch

NUTHEMNICATING

80M4480008 8"8

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

LOiTNO

---

## Page 2

12°$

"PERSOONENTY NOTHING

ESSAGE

SECRET

18C 8063 P4S49 AST PALATIE

Donathat a0$

(Who Filled In)

FiPPCOUCTION OF THIS COPY BROMIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

SLOTTED

2

10

CIASSIFY TO FILE NO

I-DIS TO FILE DO -

DISGEM B.

ACTION

SE8

DID COP;

FINE.

• EURE DSP MOAP CI. CHlORS FI

FILINTE CAS. CA/PROI

SECRET COILINZ MAR DE CITE BERN 2340

DIRECTOR JAFO GENEVA .

25Mr03477|31

REDTOP

1.

PRESS 25 MARCH CARRIES ACCOUNT SATURDAY

EVENING FOST SIORY BY DAVIS MISE IN WHICH HE CITES NOSENKO

AS SOURCE SOME REFORTS ON SSWALD USED BY WARREN COMMISSION.

WISE HAS ALLEGEDLY SEEN THESE REPORTS.

2. This FIRST

PUBLIC MENTION NOSENKO FOR SOME TIME AND

IS LIKELY CAUSE

QUESTIONS. PLS ADVISE.

SECRET

BT

58/01/15

Here and There

More-on-Oswald Case

, an in'

tokarmay classiled tran-griple of Warren

Cumnussin sessins dischned tha: Law Marver

Usaid Màs such an

"extremely poor Niot" dur

ne his stay an Russia in 1959 that hunting com

paruns had in gie him game. The Commission

received the dela from turi lanorch Maienio,

= Furian sorel parice agent win defected in the

t'S. three

manths after the

assas-slation of

President kennedy, according lo an article by

Ravid Wive in the current iside of the Satarday

Esezng Purit.

The same anucle said the Contis

sia ined bus failed du see sital aulopss phous

staphs to clarify "runusng" esidence about the

try which struck the Presideni.

An elfare to restore the Belumore trine of

H la Mencken jo being draun up by Denne Ner-

si an empire of Be Siale Pianning Depariment

and a lan ná abe lamed journalist.

LPI spare writer Edward K. Delong ald In

Jer Orlezas Ur Lis. may launco a masive

spare buid-up from "sheng trizhi" of she Susies

l'ois suesiull arbus: a mareed space plar

Loadi in 19d

---

