# 104-10167-10378

## Page 1

104-10167-10378

ny agen scarcitro, a

7 July 1961

MANORAIIM FOR IE RECORD

SUBBCT: Contact with Tony Varona

1. The undersigned vas advised by wa/f/Securfty on the

porning of 7 July bat Tony Varona had called asting to speak

with Prank Farter.

Varora 1s 11 Hashington viere de 19 stay-

Ing st the Roosereit Botel, Dicatur 2-0800, room 707. He vill

remain in Washligton for three or four days.

2. The uncersiged vas able to reach Varona by sterile

telephone at about 16:15. The undersigned gave bis nare as

Rayaoed S. Clari - who 18 & friend of Fres: lENDER-eDd indicated

that Verons uigit teli the undersigned the seme thiegs he vould

tell Frank BOIDER.

3- Verona brought up the following four points:

Bo

"e inquirei es to the state ci recruiting and ag

to what vas teidng place in connection with the Cuban

situation, presurably fros a nilitary point of tier.

D. He said that he vished to get in touch with General

Feylor, vierezon ine undersigned toid bia that ine metinod

of doing that vould be through Mr. Goodin.

c. le referred to e rumported citer by the United

States to take care of hisself and bis lanily while he vas

in the taited States and Eat he had sot received payment,

the undersigned understood for m last month.

do In geseral, he vondered whether the U.S. was going

o do anything about cuba or not and he said that he hai

talked vith Goodrin and that nothing had been resolved.

*o with the exception of ansvering as to the means of getting

In touch sith Geseral Taylor, the undersigned stated that he knew

very ilttle about the matters which Varons brought up, but that he

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

2

The undersigned got in touch uith Varons only after having

the go-ahead sign from fron C/D and discussion the matter with

DC/VH/4, CHE/l/Security, Martca Tharpe and Prani ERaDER.

2

STORET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Heproduce

---

