# 104-10169-10139

## Page 1

104-10169-10139:

SEPARATE COVE AFRADED TO

MOG-LAUD, I demary 8568

---

## Page 2

14-00000

sene

SE/PeoP

RCSR/ST/P.

DO/SR

10.

ESK/CI

12.

14.

• CONFE ANTIAL

FO SURE

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

E6OT-14004/

31 Jou 62

Please with last

75 15

15116610

BENTHAM, IS

Thi stateme

about Berlin

tre??.

5-6: 8t is not, and &

have as informed Q,

s0d: I ouggest, fright

lating a gone

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

TENTAO DIFICE: +900 0-4914

---

## Page 3

OCLASSARIED .

ONLI

• CONFE SATIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

10.

a selec

AOs2

ENTALS

1/ 80

75 15

15fe66.

CBA191•

AC.SK/CT/P.

DC/SR

EGOT - 14008

31 Jau 62

Please no le last

sais 1 come

mention

Benthsin. Is

this stateme

alan t Berlin

trie

5-6: It is mit, and &

Lave so informed,

Sad: Douggest cos might

RETURNTO C!

ckground Use

Not Reproc

brew do, ware.

long a good

tot bat are in ran

rigoraand sy the detaile

DO ONE SIN A SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTEANAL

USE. DALT

UNGLASSIFIED

ENT PATTINO OFFICS: 1000 @ -47494

---

## Page 4

10

DISPATCH

SECHET

Chier, Li fArtil: Matcher L. CAsury

ChIor, SH (AITH: Terma 0. CUSICK)

ChIOS, L8 (ATTi: LOGORPAY. SACKSIE)

FROM

SUMACT

Chief of Station, Gimmay

ADIN ISTHAT IVE

Handling of a Soviet Delecter

ACTION BOURED

See belon.

BLFEREMOES

100T-14:01

31 Jamary 1962

RE "495" - ICHECK I ONE)

MARKED FOR NDEUNG

NO INDEUNG REGURED

LOOKING CAN BE JUDGE

I QUAUFIED NO. DISK OM

. I BULBORE ChIE Bha StOry OS ABLADLE, Pron the momme Do malkad dato B0e

home: of Martial. HOODIN untid be ma anfoly under Mintha custody in sun lasted

Beates, deserves compiling, analyala, and poldonidon la una for al da uporao.

E1omnl Ald. Il rienly diliatrates the may problena nion aunt and ons bo sur

mounted, and COuld DO NIChiJ InNErLOLITO lO UNdera oL dLIBIOn in NAd cOutrice

Where Rue DriX! BoudoR cAreeRor Miant appear.

"¿a Moro la cho printrare contribution (urities si e roquans) to euro a

donpilation:

• elitihanger fron stare to liason, but also a sumatary on loo

my types of problems uniah ons a'ino, and sno 800t time de cases hard vort and

de mo a oldiinansor boes botore nol attor

the traiture chaper (1 samanto NUDI sor a medal los ale pars) and onese lo

he ereblent rendias.

02

Do The mmiling| of defeator ebulounly sa not a non responsibility to the

Jaruma Station.

The Cisco facility whist arioto primrily fo the receipt.

notablishennt of bond

fades, daoriefin, and revertleone of deleotore bas estated

hore for the lant decade.

nor. an, the movenent.by, black orcuntion.of eparattonel

ronnel a unique tank for a fi periorm.

he have novemplimhed thle miny thaos

by same of our on, Intoninced unit inolllty and also by the turnioning of allo

dossentation to the person of laterat and nosom linning the tranquort ela

maheduled MAra flIghts.

The alenitionne polata miah ando the ARLADLE ONsO MaIque

my never aguin in their entiroty be dupilenced but la part they any mell be.

and thorofore should be enumerated:

A sovier diplot, and menber of the NIS, starloned in a seno

AmBollIte bul politically senitivo country, mion at tho than ci AlLADLE'»

deteotion ma under conalderable Soviet pressure.

Do The fuot that the sotual al mountannes uncertag ble ine of

defention were mon that en Imedlite deciate by the it on tin moune and

to be unde to tate advantage of the opportunity.

0. The fat that 11ttle alteriative could be siven. under the faeta

« deseribed in (a) above, except lo Dolleve the defeator'u staterente

and soquience la his demndo, 1.e, he possessed Inforntion of a signifioant

and portabable nature and rould disadose 16 cospletely caly upon arrival 1a

the United States.

io Tan not that een the commitments in (o) above wore inde over

unconnade offort had to be ande to seocmodato tha defector's demund.

• In order to sodesplim all this an untried nethod of evasuardon, 1.0..

black evsoration via comeroial airoraft had to be accompliahed in order so

"senorally proceed with the undertaking.

No A retrospective analysla as to ho thia dose comoneed, and the unique

Pastom connected with li es camaraid above, load no to sussess for headquartere

"¿indings" and "areas of slurly," that 1 have letoles as

Frandings® in effect reprerent fects which, li mit piubent, quite probabiy mould

invo deprived un la domany uf persielpeting sucessfully in the surement si the

Ariadid family, The "areas of study," un the uthor liand, ropradent either anger.

ablo questione or matter in arena aneroin operational alecuaalone ony voll take

place to so de come type of molool-buol solution can be deviced.

So small @Inborate belon, where appropriato, on some of thano "rindingo" but

will firmt record them:

MY 1M71

wis ath

Anly.

J9

---

## Page 5

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ДУВАТ

Tal siodon a Mitil mintalaing la lie lurupona ares al loast one: lald

JOSCALLISON DAVIDE AISIERRA SO 1E DATAUDDOL rODIOSERLiNE lAS aRDY eSperASEies

Docessary in a intolligence mio-laking as been recutirand.

SO I SLOdOR al CiLAlaLaS appropriaLo Bocurity elmuances, and tavina

StatIon prIeS dod mRA stRiDE of sl last dO AiS cOntAct, lio santonas sentor

UnILAd SPAREN CIBIION pOrAJNS OL liniCOA SULeS flAS air on-ier aperatits

e. Tha Mallney of dependias an apiani or obedlencers erispere lo

Decomplian amBitive sAna of Alga priority, ve bore rotor to 17-ynar Logo dira

d.

A minisata tnt a rallo aslers serices tne nabor al pi-plo unde

GET in olde 80 800 oberades notard in moone

fly aceoplantay tat undertaking.

6. A Pa vonde ol elberation are la order as eno fou pencadlos polato.

monade of the defection could save been lela lo approamatai su sente mo

maigned military personnel. Brume tont endontor ma unsuncooniul, at some ain

motoro pium una Connul venoral and one al his annios stricer, Addiesonally one

pravato United Slaten e181z0n, ta nanior Pan Amarioan offielal in Franklara, became

Very mi BoRrO of this sensitive Cole.

Tail inbrense la de nunder of latividunle

one abort postine of es immediato noed date la la dioning of Saturday, l0 December,

DITOPAR BRATTErA (dORUmentARiOn, ETIphiON, pROCOgrapUlo) lo proparo don SaRLa

framnions and alsos passpurts, ant an saulenod eliatod ma to dot an a satanouse

• TO CUNTULARO VERONAL LNA 8O AFFIA VIANS BO MIA PINNTULONE DOAMPONO. TO

one erosal lailuident javolred, bovover, ma the Pen Aurican ortioial to to i

orin deemo put bia Hoa: 1100

In Jeopardy by bein sa cooperative on the sotter al.

ho me. Bithout previoualy having elenrod and brieted this affiodal. lila pouncer.

pire to TA la also so cloared nd brioíod) the siole underrating rould save boos

precluded.

It world tave been imponalble to socompliah departure Ithout documentA-

tlem on a comeroil airrart silhoat the connloanos of the cosmercial airline

tavalved..

Indoed witn aunn cunnivance lt me difflould and flaky enough. Finally.

the point escorning conolonent equipent spenta for steell, lioadcuartors 1a fully

#more of the foollngo of into Station dunderning the inndeyusey for car parpoces

of malened airorate.

Buffioo 18, to say Chas man deractora apparently of sigadil.

omnt walue rohne to ride such alreraft attor merits thorough sting.

7. The miser of "arena of alus" apparra to ua to encompana al leat lia

fellering!

I'ae

partero, It affordo un a inoility for inatnataneina commaication, de oun

aze corala rough estistes as to has long 18 might take sparcarinto leade

amrAn OrIlone to anster our perios and no onn lies approctarin the

arrival alne of ansmera to hi precedence praf11o. Olier Stasime, borever.

do not have 1l-20 equipment, all do not have the unmo type of eryptological

epalpment, and there la a diffurent pattera as to the type of ciroultry, 1.0..

direat lened Jinna, tux, piralent somercial seniles, eto. la variova ticio

le merit in the sppropriate reaiquartera unli maloavoring to group 800grpio.

seally Sterlone and lien beed os te typo of onlustluna and cryptulogind

equipmaut and the enamol of tranaminalus to dune up mith prodiotiona do to

the averago lengt at tino lio trannalonion of a priority or operational.

Immodinto onble rould lako berreen and amme the variun redresentasire

Groupinga.

In the case under. atudy, rilot ropresented a rather fast-breaking

to transalt an operatlui lemediate cable solem

And Prasanit.

So monia inte boon of value to lo lo aro red soco sur us side miller.

Do worthhile to request enon chior of scatlus in a loontion "horo cho Alr.

NORM

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

EPLACES FORMS

ARCART

PADE NO.

21010

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRBI

AYBAT

I philos nas: 0149100

BWI-14U04, 31 JanaRry 1902

Parve on linty has an ansigant attacho plane to entabilaa procedures inaroby the

AIr or Enval Altacha 1111 adulao COS of any abesnos ol the alcmone plano, the

point of designation of ene alreralt, and the duration of the aisaace. Intro

HaVe DOes arevie detestions sere sitache planes more und an the saitial

niale or binos eremelon In the tracuation plan ot

FOr ABLADIE

ney infarmad us by ondio thas they proponus to ma, un arco piano. No a

of the optalon tant ubes the stalesent no endell

sade the assumptios

the pLane me Lonedlosaly arallablo. An usa later discover oy da tho

rewar plane la question man de biambador and se

uns some sle bours artor

atated ita intent to use that alrorar

inflo In this partioner tune sailors arentunily vorted out ameratully the

#torg minst bo otheralan la a differeas set of taota.

a Priorile pretahine of fredes.. Men a Statson 18 alerted to a requent

to sunder operationi support to sna novecent of a defeator and all tannoun

If Headgurtera pussesses, and than permito, ve

mppart 18 the baleroad of the deliotor 10 mus thal 18 mould bo a antiar os

lonna interent. This rolla haro bens tha case la ABLADLE. An bubsequenE tonde

anytor dobriorios developed (and vo sarumed 18 mould have sun dinedoned da

fonderter BracEs) ALADLE hnd previously bons atalioned in Borita, Had met

More born inom buro, end ns lin allowed, corsain debrintin en the borla

parted doglened to allose day mallar or lemollato coadora could have bees water

103

• D. BETHU

1.5.1 5.

Attachent

Immo dated 18 Dee 1951 11

Idantstion the top

2 • El /atta

16 - 88 1/190

1- Ne waste

POLA

1043 520

USE PREVIOUA BOITION.

BIPLACES PORNI

9179. 41 28A AND 11.90

ECRIT

FAUE

4/90.

---

## Page 7

CMS.

/- TO EGOI-14004, 31 Jan 1962

=...

18 December 1961

RSAORANDUN FOR. The Recond

SUBJECT:

Handling at German 8tation 16 and 17 December of

Soviet Defoctor fron Russial Embasny at Helsink

143

I. This monorandun ia designed to reoord, soon after the event.

I1l frots pertaining tu the handling within the Germa Station of the.

evacustion of a Soviet Vice. Counsil (and nember of the hIs) fron the

Rusalan Dabnay at Helsinkl. At the time of this writing there 1a

stIll Incking certain informition to complete the entire atory..... Hou:

over, it la felt northuhile to record all eventa while the senory 1a

still trash.

In the following paragraphe the defector la referred to

me "subjort" and paoudonyms and identitien are wied in all' other cases.

At approximately 0730 hours Baturday, 16 December, Arold .

ILACK (Chies, [CiliZou) contaoted me at my home and anked ne to proceed

Immediatoly to the residence of Joel D. MENTHAM (Chief of Station).

UPOS ArTITAl ME BENTlAM's residence, ARNIHAM and LYACK briefed se on...r

oBble which announced

intent to endeavor to

fly sunset and family "hark" from

Jito Frankurt aboard the

Alr Attacho airoraft. Cable alao requested Frankfurt to have an air-

oraft avilable to receive immediately subject and family and take off

forthnith to the United States. LYACK also mentioned an IN cable from

DaR which requested

to move family soonest toLCABEZONE In

Tankfurt for establishment of bona fides.

• "ethen adjourned to the offloe and awaited more word fro

at branchurt, or from Headquarters onouring s

whioh would advine on the arrival tima-of-the famil

for Irsedisle departuro us ine inmily for the United States upon

arrirai at irankrurt.

EAOB was immediately alerted and they mde

errengesente to have a C-54 with nugmented cran prepared to depart for

tho United. States by 1200 hours.

A compartment for che subjeot 'e

family was put in the C-54 and the regularly assloned tall nunber wan

renoved and a falme number put on the airoraft.

Conrad V. LAPOLLA

(AelIna Cala!: COS/NUSODA) mes contadted and amind to come to the offlee

Immeliately.

Disoussions were then hold with LYACK and Carl T.. UPDILI

no to the avallability of a KUDOVi onse offloor with Husaian language

espability to

401

as escort.

Fire"

SECRET

---

## Page 8

MA GAT

KIRT

143

* Having heard nothing fron either

or Headquarters.

A 0245 hours OPI traffic was sent, la both directions telling them

Bury was prepared to receive and effect inmediate black evacuation

ol tse fanily to the United States. In the meantime, it had been

deterained that IDENTITY A would be used as the sedurity esoort and

BUBeL I. MUCHANS (AD/PI Staff) would be on standby to serve as a

InDOrE esoort.

Inis was a contingency arrangement because we laaked

loden whether or not & KUDOVE offleer from either Helsinki or

was prepared to travel with subjeot all the way to lashing

Around 1100 hourg I asked Edward. P. TOCHENSKY (Chief, BAQB)

so establiah eantaot with the Wiesbaden Air Bare, tomer and lay on

rungements to monitor the flight of thi

Air Attache plane.

Data mas done beonuse we have had previous Instances of "black"

rive at lesbader where the aircrart aotually arrived before th

Da cable from Cha Station, diapatching the bodie-At about 1115 hour

TOCHRISKY Informed me uy telephone that the

Alr Attache

frerit, a C-45, was and had been at the Westuden Air Base since..

12 December. At about 1130 we ombled this information til

d to dispasch an alroraft to Coperagen to uke

could move the body there. Because of

u could not lunately set into any fleld north of Copenhagen.

6.

Al approximatoly 1145 hours a cable was receivod fron Head-

gemsters conourting

In the immediate evaountion fran Wiesbaden by EAOB

aireraft of subjeot's family upon arrival. If such could not be

arranged no were then requented to hold subject and faully at cAlZOnE.

bour to sein he no a rate as the they taor 16%

by appruinstaly 1600

Immodiately of:their Intenziona. I had previourly left the office

Bout 1430 hours in order to get some linoi: end take mine of one or

tars parsonal iteng.

I had called reison k. POLIAKOFP (Deputy for

Administration Staff) In to cover for me and had briefed hin or the

ame current altuation.

Winen I returned at 1600 hours MUCHANE had

come into the offioe prepared for the trip. We then sent the above

mationed cable and austested that MUCHANE return to hia quartors and

malt further developments. I phoned TOCHENgKY and suggested that he

and his cormniastor retuin to their quarters. LAPOLIA, In the mean-

lime, had gone to Rhein/Main Alrport to meet an indoning staffer orga

Ing classified material and get him through Cuatone.

ile then returned

to his home. I left word with the signal Center Watch Offloer that

any inooming trafflo en gubjoot'a iris snould be tolephoned inmediately

$A LAPOLIA who could ous in, roview the traffio and

contaot. m. The

730A2:

SUCKET

---

## Page 9

Watch Officer was alno naked to Imediately phos: the Wiesbaden Ca

minestor who in turn would contadt TOCHENSKY and both of them would

so to their offioe.

8. At approximately 1900 hours LAFOLI! contacted me at home from

. Baned on

abled statement that Martin K. ROODINk

was escorting subjeot to the United States,

busE LAPULL not to alert MUCHANa. I arrived at the office at 1930

bours and immediatoly dispatched the Querd Sergeant to buy certain

types of foods and magasines that"

asked to be put aboard the

United Statea-bound aircraft, lid contacted TOCHENSKY and asoortained

that EAOB was In a state of lunediate resdiness.

David it. MURFALL

(COB/KUSODA Offioo) then arrtved with IDENTITY A.

IDENTITY A WaB Biven

• general briefing on the mission and his responaibility folloving

which he and LAPOLLA Book off innediately for Wiesbaden. They took

with than the purohases of the Guard Bergeant.

9

I then proceeded to the home of Ronald N. CORBANE (COS Lawyer)

where we were guests for dinner. At approximately 2200 hours I received

@ call from LAPOLLA that subject and fanily had arrived, the turnover

vas mado, and that the KAOB airoraft was airborne at asproximately 2150

hours. I telephoned this information to BENTHAM.

20. At approximately 2245 hours I reoeived a call from the 81gal

Canter Watch Offloer who relayed to me the following message from the

Wonbaden Commmicator. That message stated the BAOS airoraft was

immediately returning to wiesbaden beonuse of a sick passenger. Innedi

ately thereafter I received a call fron LAPOLIA who was at the quarters

of Arthur Q. DREIBSZCIS (EAOB) in Wiesbaden. LiPOLIA stated that he

bnd gotten hold of the Air Base Fligh. Surgeon and was procending to

the Air Bnse. He io at that tine ic athor detaili. I told .Im Cheater

&. PACKNIUND (COS Punival Offiour) and mysolf would leave immediately.

for Wiembaden Air Base.

1d.

PAGERLUND was in attendance at the mazo dinner party and ve

departed immediately for the Air Base. Upon arrivas at approximately

2300 houra the EAOB airoraft had already larded

and nation denurity.

provisione were observed in the ared.

Air Polise had the "Hargar 34

Aren" blooked off two blooks in either diraotion.

12.

TOCHENSKY met me outside the building and informed me thee

fumodintoly sr0or *g-off subjeat's six-year-old daughter lind besome

extranely airsiok and surfered respirazory diffioulties,

the wan

administered oxygen.

The mo:her beare hystersond and the l'ather

demanded that the airerast immediatoly be raturned to lta point of

---

## Page 10

1::.

departure. He further stated he would not agree to further travel

to the United States ixcept by commercial jet. lo then entered the

Operations Offlee of the 7705tn Filght Squadron mere I ma introduced

to ROOINS, who recited baaloully the same story an told by TOClao.

We also ascertained that the Plight Surgeon had looked at the daughter

and and found ruining organionlly wrong. We then asied ROODILE tO.

bring FACIRLUND Into the room where subject's fanily was ataying and

Introduce him as an "Izarionn Intelligence Service Medionl Officer"

and have PAGERLIND examine the child.

FAGERIUND's resulta were the

mame as the Plicht Surgeon and no medication ma fiven the child. A

Asseunion of sone fifteen minutes then toot place sa to hou beat to

proceed with canard trammportation arrangementa.

hOODE took me aside

and atranuously impressed me with the faot that nubjeot was of the

opinion that certain of him information on the mtter of Soviet/Finnish

relations me of grant perlahablilty and that subjece deoply felt his

mossalty to arrive in laahington and atate this Inioration within

the next 48 hours.

ROODINI also arated he conourred in subipot 'a toel-

Ings. All KUBARX representatives then on the some again got together

and the undersigned ande the devinion to abort the mission, arrange

immodiate anfe houing overnight for subjeot and hia family, and

attempt comeroial transportation on Bunday.

"13. Barlier fu the day LYACK Informed ne that he had elered out

their Bachborn safe-house in ense ve should need 16. I Imediately

tried to contact LYACK by phone but there was no anaver. I then phoned

Henry R. CANLINQAY (Deputy for Adainistration Staff) and naked him to

do for me the following thinges

B.

Contaot Stephen R. LACKLEN

(CAREZONE) and toll hia we had

Ra imediato need to house i lamily of three, plus tro

IBARK uffloure at Eachborn. To further tell LACKLEN to

be standing by at Opel Cirole opposite the Minnespolis

Honeywell Busiding at 0100 houre ant De prepared to eseore

another vehiele to as tium..

Phone EStaHAM and toil him we wouldidrop by his house

later that uvening to brief him on any developmenta.

Phone ¿YACk and tell him we were using Brohbors.

All conoernod depnited Wiesbaden Air Base at approximately

0020 hours on 17 Deoember and arried at the meeting point at Opel

Cirolo at erotly 0100 hours. Subjoot's family pius MULALL, who had

«doo gone immediately to Misstadon, fullowed LACKLEN's oar to lechbor..

PACKHLIND, LAPOLIA, ROODINE, And rigolt went Immediatoly to BENTIAN'S

house.

MONEY

---

## Page 11

5

15. BENTHAN was then fully briefed on developmente and ROODINE

save certain operational information of a sermiiive nature fron subjeot

to HITAM.

After necessary annlyain and disoussion the following

decimion were reached:

.. 11..

Mo. No would endenvor to renove the maily out of Frankfurt

by commeroiad atroratt thas day, 1.0., Sunday, 17 December.

Do in the abeense of the sollity to decompiser enla, no moula

mienvor to renove than un an Air Forde Mediend Kvacuntion

Plisht en Monday, 18 Deceabei.

¿anoph G. KUDuCK (Chie?, COR/UNIOT) was contaored by

phone fron HINThAl's residenge and said he believed that

he people could aisla la the subjoor's passporte a

Pederal Kopublie entry alan. This was connidered neces

unsy an order to prevent onbarrassing questions by Cermo

Interation Authorities un Bundny when the family would

dopart by comperoial alr.. The family had entered the

Joderna hopublio "bleak" and accordingly there vas no

untry pornit in thair Soviet Diploantlo mesports.

do

We would retum LAPOLLA and HOODINS to the safe-houme and''.

I woiid aloo sand out one entiated guard with aidearm.

16.

A emble to Headquarters wan drafted on the unala of all this

informition and everyone departed the HiNTHAl renidence for their

respootive monion. I proceeded to the Signal Conter and rolensed the

Arustod eable.

17. I arrived baol at us quartere about 0530 hours. At about 0410

hours I rooeived a onll fron KLEMACH, wanting to get in touch with

LAPOLIA on matters pertaining to the doomentation work he vas tryin..

to secomplian. I gave him the telephone number of the Eschborn safe

house.

It turned out that the dold woather had afreated telephone com

mmentione to Rochhorn and the phere s== 1691.

1i3406 List went sa

Pe Eachborn and dicoused tia probied "its LAFOLiA and HOUDINE. I am

Imformed, but an get do not know the

tsanniond reason why, that KURIOT

ocild not put in the subjoot 'a passport the required German entry etamp.

It was deolded at the meeting at the isohborn aste-house that KURIOT

would try to mke and have ready by the neut morning

passports

for mubjeet and bie family.

18.

At about 0600 houra I received a call from the 81gnal Center

Unteh Offloer Informing me that Headquarters

"approved your plan."

"mediately tried to contaot the Esahborn ante-house by phone but to no

mess.

Arone 0630 1 acadadióù minidi at tho liniur incallation and

ma then informed by him of hia earlier vialt to Eschborn around 0400.

He told me during lia phone converantion that LAPOLLA was going to got

up about oron hours. I surained that LAPULiA would proceed immedietely

to the office and then did so myself.

120.23

---

## Page 12

States slag convercial jos.

le discussed again, as "e had the previou

evening, contacring Mr. Wiilian Naylor,- the Pan Amerloan Senior Jifloer

In formany and a cleared and witting contaot, as to whether or not he

could arrange to doard passengers without going through German lign.

Clan, 1.0., Passport Control. The question of the avallabllity of senta

ams alno invoived. LAPOLIA suggested that we phone saylor in hla

rinidence in ind romburg and explain to him we had a matter of serfous

manay and ant him. to come immediately to the I.d. Farben Huilding and

dimouse the matter with ul. The phone cald sas made and Naylor agreed

so do tila.

LAPOLLA Chen contactod the MATS Office at Mioin Misin to

ancerala 18 MATS had any commeroial jets chartered for departure that

day.

He diseovered tiat they had no commercial Jet chartered flights

that day hut as midaight on junday they were dispatching a C-135 don-

fijured to enry 66 passengers. le was further informed that 36 of

Shose seats had been siven to the Air Foroe and 3u to the Army to be

amed enly by single military personnel departing-to the States on

Christme lenve.. No families could be sent on the flight.

Inasmuch me

a C-135 10 the military oargo version of a Boaing 707, LAPOLLA and aysel!

dinerined seriously the advisability of endeavoring to got military

authority to fly this fanily out.

We deolded againat such course of

sotion for several rensons.

We antloipated that there would be too

mach conversation among the single military personnel aboard the flight

when they observed five civilians, three of whom were obviously s

family, flyire on the same plane. The faot that the sir-year old

daughter spoke no ingliah also contributed to the adverse situation we

antloipated.

Scoondly, aubject and family had already been aboard one

cargo type afroraft and were reported t; FOODINE to have ande a serie

of uncomplimentary remarks of the type transportation that they were

being afforded.

2ù.

Naylor arrived at the offioe at about 1000 hours and was made

generally aware of our problem.. He was inforned that the principl

traveler Involved was a defecting Russian diplomat, plus wife and chii,

and that we were under obligation to expeditiously and securely return

them to the United States by Jet airoraft.

Ho was lurther Informed

that we laokal the propor doountation to board them on the commeraind

alroraft enrough normal clearanoe procedures and we had no guarantee

that we would have the documentation by flight departure time of

PAA No. 73 at 1315 hours.

We then asked him what he considered to is

the possibilities of working out. a procedure to board the party "blaok"

and to provent any divulgenos of their existenoo to the dorman Imigra-

tion Authoritlea, Arter conelderebla disoussion it appeared that there

CS0SCT

---

## Page 13

14-00000

aristed a very good ponsibillty to get. the passengers aboard the afr

eraft and suncenafully

effourvent derana passport controle. Naylor

contacted his on assistant aid the PAA Operations Offloer assigned to

Rhein/lain, both of whom are United States citizens, and asked that

they proveed to the airport and stand by to asslat hin in tre handling

of some very important personages nic vere departing on PAA No. 73.

He then anoertalned enat only throe firat rlass sente very avaliable

on thin flight. Ho told hia asslatant to sont two pasmengers in the

frorast lounge and ho would acoopt full responmiollity for 1t. mhin

10 momohat touchy in tie airlinea business as lounge senta have no

safety belte.

He alao know additional firet olana sonta were available.

out of London.

91. In the mantime, KIRMC and end of hin men working on the

doomentation had roturned to Bachborn to take, plotures of subjeet and

his famlly that would be necesery for thel

piusports.' The

best: rending we eould got fron the Muniot buopiu worklag on the doou-

monto was that they would not be roady on time. Innemuch as decialone

and been undo, me dooided to set the unel in motico and started the

family to the airport.

LAPOLLA accordingly took off for Bsohborn and

A plan van agreed upon where he would arrive with the lamily in front

of the hain Main Departure Huilding as 1230 hours. Naylor could be

standing by the entranoe and take the lanily via a olrouitou airport,

building route to the PAl Operations Offlee which la loonted on the

moond floor of the bullaine beyond Passport Controd.

Naylor departed

at 'about the unno time in LAPOLIA and went direotly to the ilrport.

Earlfer in the morning I had anted barun 11 he eould effeot

arrangemente at the Conmulate to have a Visa Offloer standing by 3o put

Instod Staton visitora' visas for subjeot's family in thel

porte. Bm HAN necomplimhed this and, at laylor's suggestion, we asked

11 the Conmulate Officer could go to-the PAl Operationa Office at Rhein/

Madro and meant be there to complian hie visa cora.

3y Go Guing we

could seve apprainately 30 ainutes time. i contastes Mr. Rollie White

of the Connulate office and he agread to maet ua at the airport at

1345 hourg.

I nart phoned BENTHAN and unde his avare of our situation. It

did not look an 1f ne would have any licble documentation to pass. the

Ianily and mould have to taxo tio chance of virareuting the Passport

Control. Our prinolped concern was that a deran Immigration Offloer

would be standing by the siraraft doparture arna and rould ask to see

subjoot's passport. No dould not get subject's fantly aboard the

ms ta that sues fron ine departure pullding to the alrorart

beause there was no way we nould get them to tne bus londing aren

wathout guing thron Panaport Control, Kamill ened hon we evaluated

an ability to withdren gracefully at plane side if challenged by terman

NONE

CHET

---

## Page 14

authorities. I told him the chances were better than even and that we

would appenl to the faot trat Enla was a VIP party being handled out of

the regular airport procedures and that the pasaporta had been left in

the PAA riflee, he would then, put the party beak in the veniolé enat.

sook then out and just keep going. NINTHAN authorized un to proome

Ith the "binol" ernountion.

?. I then mide one last call to fuRIOt and told ihem 1s they could

not complete their wort and get the paasports to the airport by 1315.

hour so forget 1t. With that NIAl. and ayself loft for thein/inda.

D. Ne arrfred at Reia tin exotly at 1230 hours as subjeet 'e

party me drawing up. Tha group tea than taken by a alraultous route

$o Bha PAA Operationa utt1oe.. It ma snoertained that PAA No. 7) vould

asPIro at 1245 hours, approdiantaly thirty minuton lato.

86.

During our malt at the PAA Operationa 0ff10e, ROODID sot me

neido three or four time and lept me continuounly anero of subjeat'a

fonr tint an attempt rould be nde to saborage hia plane, in id

videneed this condemn over aince him arrival In Frankfurt, Subjeet

told ROaDs he felt sure that Soviet agente would be found among some

or the employees of the eomercial airlines and the mangenant of kheln!

Main Airport.

He mentloned the leation of the Mia that worka speoiflonily

on annasaintions and aborage. He mus searrul of any bagange being

Jonded very late or any

"spare baggage" that night be found abourd the

I told ROODINE ve were vory sympathetla but we were not about

to ask Naylor, who had now gone much further than one could be resonably

experted to on our bahalf, to off-lond the bagenge of 184 pannentor.

and seroh it.

27. Two evente happened while ve were walting in the offlee to

beBrl the parties that vere of sone disturbance.

The airplane Captain

reportnd to the PAA Operationa Offloer that a gun was found aboard the

plase. Upon Investigation it. was determined that this gun belonged to

mn Armed Porses sourier who had carried classified material on the aim

orart to freniture.

The dirpion unpiain, upon boing saind by inyior

it there nad been any unusual sotivities on the part of the parsenger,

then demoribed one party flying in the first -alass compartuent.

This

Clight sid prarinated in Son Pranoiaoo and was flying around the world

weatbolaid.

At Now Delhi & United States oltizen, « correspondent for

an unknown newapaper, boarded the plane with his wife and à female nurse.

The filcht orow had bean informed that he was en alechello and was being

returned in the inited States at the request of the United Staten Imbaony

at Now Delhl.. For zart of the trip he had aoted in somerhat of an

otmondous faahion airt had inaulted none of the other paasengers. The

Caplin sad Investigated the situation and was of the opinion that the

correspondent was am nuffiolently drunk and Inoked mufflolent etamina

SENSET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

to lamule anybady. I anked the Captain 1l there vas a purser or a

mole attendant asleed to tha first clasa notion. Me sented on thie

particular filett all cablo servies personnal "ore fennio, Ho searod.

horover, that another PAA Captaia was flying doad hend on the Crip, ma

a big burly. sore of follow, and 1l noed be, could spend mont of the

trip la tha loundo to mason the corronpondent. IDITITY A expressed

Bravo reservation about nou going formard u1en the trip boonuse of the

correspondent. It was ny opialen, horever, lat between DOTITY A.

-NODDIE, and ChO eXtra PAA CApUla thAt 18 the correspondent sinia

Not anarous thy could suffiolently cope with Min. The rogular Cap

toln left lne defladto lapronion uith de that the correspondent wan

mufflestly drunt, that he nould aither soon pana out or in any event

monle sos represens a throne to rubjeot 'a malas the erip. de ma.

therefore, deedded that the trip would proosed. IDENTITY A Intermud

Do Capenia dit no ma a Unlead States doverment ropresentative enoere»

Ing a fanily abond the plane and requested tna Captala to hoep the door

• Rhe fileir dool looted from tse Insido during the lenses of the

trip. to shin she Capeasa acroed.

BuJooR's party, soccupanied by linylor and the PAl Operations

offloor departed sne esflee at 1y39 hours, entered a pAl orm bus.

drovo tmodiatoly to the firet-plans ramp and succeanfully boarded the

AL abOut 13J5 KIDACH arrived with subjoot'" tue original

Fumolen pesapora. Tone were then put in a brown mnila envelope and

ono el Maylor'a Unitod Steian eltisen employpes man anted to proosed

Immediatoly to tho airerare and sive Chose to ROODIME.

29.

At about 1900 hourg we hnd phoned to kunlot und told ralph 0.

NASANOCK that he hnd another thirty minutes to get till

porte to the airpore boouse of the afrorerto Belayed areas t

passporta arrivod at apprarimately 1345 houra.

Mollie Inite

matoly atarted to enter in those passporte the United atten

vinitos'a vinas, At approxtentely 1355 che IMA Ground Crew Cider

notified PAA Operatione that Flight No. 73 was mohandoally eleared for.

doparture and complotely loaded. At that time a PAA reutenan.,. lue

started to rn fros the For to buiiding to the plene visa i jittle

piece of lucase.

Nayior was coming baok from the plane in the oren

bum• No Interoepted the PAA employee and tock the vag and drove 1t

baok to the piano. He Inter told un he opened the bag, one of the

flight bag varioty, and on his om initiative emined the contents.

It contained Itens of apparel uned by ladies that will not be further

adentllied.

30. At 1400 the Ground Crew Chief statod again the plane :a ready

for departure and anked why the plane was being held up. It was being

hold up beause white had not finlahed all the entries co the pimeporte.

Morever, She dan Operations Offloer. Infermed She Ground Grew Chlet that

21 091N

STORET

---

## Page 16

14-0000

t: =

20

putang coral meses.

dapertura and rollod que de 141e houro.

No that the abrerase ma diverted lo bermuda bocaura ul bad mesenos

2040109 de A MAZ 1 Olead Do tet Lasonalica about

SEGRET

---

## Page 17

SVE ATT 8 TO BOOPOLDORA, I dON 68

@o8, a

88ГEВ 1858

11018

SECRET

---

