rost0740-t0062] «= *

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel : c : Ones en i

>" Monday = 28 November 1977 piser See

aa ~ "30, (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON ‘Received a call from
Seymour Shwiller, on the staff of the House Armed Services Subcommittee
on Intelligence & Military Application of Nuclear Energy. He said he
would like to have a briefing on "that Russian thing that appeared in the
~‘papeér'' this afternoon or tomorrow morning. I told Shwiller I would
“ check with our people and be back in touch With him, .(Shwiller isa
“former member of the staff of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy.
He has all the necessary compartmented clearances and has been briefed
pains on.matters of this sort in the past. He is now continuing the same kind
', |... of. responsibility in his’current staff. capacity with the House Armed
. Services Committee.) : é az

-. 31, (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Called: Bob Blakey, Chief
Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, to talk with him
further about the inquiry I had received from a Committee staff employee
who was concerned about her clearances, (See Memorandum for the
Record.) : : .
32.° (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Tony Lapham, Géneral
Gounsel, and I met with Tom Latimer and Mike O'Neil, both on the’
staff of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and
Bill Miller, Staff Director, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence,
t6 discuss a personnel matter of interest to the Director,

PH 33: {Confidential - CM) LIAISON ~Goncerning the cable from
ee advised that Representative Robert Dornan(R.. Calif.)
is'to’be in London on'2 December and had asked that a akc
#SasHSEdsa#TSctsashoaIgnsonaanaa P|
erved as an escort -
for Mr, Dornan during the Paris Air Show in May 1977, brief him on
matter | Shep Shepanek, SA/DO/O,
reported that the DDO interposed no objection to having the staffer meet
with Mr. Dornan, but thought it advisable to inform Mr. Dornan
before he goes of the staffer's true affiliation: Lyle Miller concurred.
With this as background I called Mr. Dornan's office and asked for an
appointment to see him briefly before he left for Europe.

a 3/ Thug ower

3)ra)
