104-10178-10105)

se et

mn)
\ Va
. SECRET/WO FOORIGS DIGaEB
veces RSPORT BO, ORL 47,531
axpoate aici pee? parE: 29 March 1967
— ee eee arracnaare:
mon? FS
APPROVED BY: Victor 7. CRONTIGH EYERRECS:
sone:
| lererias corerts:
‘
{
DIOTRLEVTICH) —eeaningten <2
f-
| eECaOT ep posses einems
One 1
| Goa betad free cs tenatio
e Guttgrediag sa¢ éaq lace fication
we tre

8 an

dine SEITE Te enceeeeemeereanie rn oe


A
F
H
t
é

tana" Bepert £, ano 15.8. bd md

Dee of nmmacy 1967 :
* taurce: 4 vegnlan voures, prubatiy roltedio, “ite Gizesd GOUSE®

Tha cana may aan be Gren Rarur Gxvrenston esata Sea Gocernantt Gopmrtonares SES
Ree aS ar Sacis Saeed evra Des Bite WORN TOADS U2 BO SPOTA
SECURITY BETEUCTIONS OVERLAY

SECRET xo rorecy OS


2/101 309
: . 1th Marek 1967 aa
t
al
‘ ea
: : 4
Kextoo/Interuational Front Orgentsations q
Political/Communisa *

Report to the 1.0.9. on the Student Kove
gont in Mexico

(January 1967) d

Attached 19 9 copy of o report to the 1.0.8. en
the Student \orement in Kexioo,

attachnent

HO FOREN DISSE
SECRET is 2



|. ror SHCAETAN AT DiForAT cH ost/ Peed

Given ty Aguil ce Beds
CULTHE.AIVERTUOYRIRT.WUSiCo ;

At theae aosente e strugsie nas been going on ia recent
yore in the, democratic sectors of the Mexican aludent Borge
erat with regerd to the unification of the student Bovoren' ene #

At present in Mexied there are 28 state universitics
scart of shicn de tie sutonoarus univer ity of teaice cola
jen!

- Raa “about 00, ye

of denice there ore atote uwsiversic
bere are higher. educations! eourses |
Ler studenta in Fe md id
dy the clergy snd

lof the student norement has the foltesiag |
ehsrecter: he student orgenioations: Salatete eemee :

of ox ganiee don on the atate level, but not on
level. Thue, we find thot tha student movensnt ds Tyee

_ Eualsea’on "ine technical Level which fa represented ty, oe

In the nutonsaous University of Mexico, there $8 Ho
single orgonisation; all the facpities Cty de geaicot=
“tone which aakeo 18 iapossible te ero fd: the federations of
whe fac: 0 oa ard
parateneos vont da cach et toon.
SSUCRSSIN THE cu i
Ite work ‘le carried on entirely in the clerics! and pric
vate univeraities and therefore dors not have « character Foe
. presentotive ef the ees tudent movement.
, In bay of 1963, the “democratic ané progrespive sectors
+,0f the Mexican student Tovenont decited to seat ot the Confe=
rence of Nor: which attracted about 100,000 atudente,
Ghis conference hed the purpose ef joining the otruggle fer,
the coordination of the student sovesent in order to break
with the finoneial policy and corruption of the governnunt,
The Morelia Conférence proposed tho uniting of the stae
centre which would wage tht struggle fer
ocrstisation of education and for nations) 7
‘Liberation. with thie oi0, nbn stodene contre was orgoniced -
in Mexico Galed the Mational Ov Denceratic Studentos
At includes the following ‘ateiiistes oFradent orgonipationst
The Federation of Socialist Peseant Students, which bao
27 ercitiated schools;
Fea Foaaration ‘of Studento of Lower | caltforata : :

seration: of Studenta of Kantr:

Ine Federation of Stucente of Sinsios
tion ¢ Btuc of Hichuacea

Btud of Querrero



Bey Beisiodee'c

p gielo oma

_ magne Vigitence
"pron, pitt Prosidium of the constitutont congress was elected

4 ividua:
1 Orgentoations.

of Scho!

frog agong theee Sti
ite term of offi
Aataonal centre o:

Ipe Union of. Puebla

eration of Student.
aration of Student.
aeration of Students of Sscateces
f Students of aguas Colientes
eehools and those whieh are aeadere of

peer Srgnnisational Secretary: Mar io)
mem Deeretary ef Disputes and Sdue

amt Secretary of Frese and Publicity: Fouafing
‘poli Secretary of Foreign Relations;
fer Secretary of Interns) Relotiona:, antul fof
tay’ Secretary of gorkvre and Trade Union acgiv
mp erSecretory of Peorant abtivitie tise
 ReapSeeretary. of Edscationel activities: cabin
B soap Secretary of women
Lorships: Argan;

re

j The Executive Committee consiete of the ¢3Tlewiags

@ activities:

dont LeopaldeAsi
Council: Rafael

ate universi:
wild run unt!
democratic atud

drod opinion in the Mexican etude
Tha THET to quite an old organisation which fe really gee

presentotive of the
higher technical st

Mox.con studea'
udies. This org:

2 of Chiqueque
of burangs

rev repo ys0s, eect :
r Secretary:
ral Secretary: Oilberto de

Payee fivares mm: Pfu ees
onal Procedureas oo»

ita

Pable/Sandovely *
it ieee

ce
ieee Feusto”purguene
LZ

of Orgentete
eutfSepalvere

arte
guilop Talowantes ,Preaigent

organisations, in Moy of 1966,end
1966, It haa organieed a new
onto which represents raher

At Bovement.

% poveaant in the branch o:
janioation 48 aationally

presented. At ite lost congrens, the FNET wos reprdsonted
eaee, wi

300 delegnteo, six of whom were delegates from the Confe.

rr
of Bexicnn Youth. They approvad: the dilowing resolution: ziros,
ve

the -CNE 8 the rapresontat
Thie argonisation, incidentally, 18 aftiutous
is

At to. roca,
Mexican student.

a orgonisstion

“to tha ISG/COSEC. Secondly; the dioarciliation of the feos

the Confereration of

Couse of the recent

ir

Aa on
tains 6 stu
nteaticn ef 4 St

ent

Mexico student movement, cbave all thoee sector:

xicen Youth.
whieh 0

on of @ completely
ation frrned by the

. Tha Jecigion was taken bee
eouned at the CJ Congresses

routh=type, which malas
‘eT "an an her orgae «

nature. All those are minorities ia an

of the

otudent aovecent which maintain the line of tm governzental
onal Fevolationsry Party. At thie timo theses

‘prty the Inetiturh

Student gectore have n>
FUE? no longer be 120
x

leet Congreas of te:
of thea sinoritios,

which gall thoi

the Confederation of youth, |

trength or representotivity since the -
8 80 thio orgonisetion ond einse ot the
ean Youth st wea split into two te,

Bec lves reprecentstives of
‘ ~



9 sfiene: For this redscn, the Lotia Aseriean Cranteoies .
GCraclustenes Pifustion exieting in the Masicen studrat 29=
gwisations b+ taken int? account with reepect 19 ‘nee haet>
fation to the esaing 9th Congrees of the IVS. Mie eitestica
may be suaced up ae follows:
1 : There -sxtat representative srganisstion
: students at the naticnel level ‘naving progre
i Thave include the Notacnal 4:deretion of Teenmi:
sTehach ia 8 Baader 2f the TUS, and the wetiwes
seratic. St VENTD/ which ie ast « eater
ig; but, in-bileteral conversations nel terwees toe >
» $Aig-organitation jabers of the lst, they oh
On interest in affitioting te the v3 tn the reer Potade.
i* . Ie sbould be nsted that 05th awe: Leotime per ticspeted
i fn the 1Vth GLAS and formed @ j2snt Selegetion enien Bed 6.
: : Bingle vote. . : : -
} 2nd. There-existe enather “rgsnisetica: Tre Beticas Masiars*
Gentre /CNE/ mhach 16.nct representative of tw Wsscan stedeet
i Sovenent and which maintsine rescticaary pig: ts: rr
i an : ° effiliated ta the ISC and 41 core oh tee S08, Oe
: Gove At show eny intentizne “f oec-aizg » somber.
Finally, there othe confeseretion sf Ma.cen
Youth /CJW/ whieh alinrgh it groupe ataces! ar gals
outh character. It 18 a pember 7f the cuS. at wie tise

fon of the FNET end it nee euffered srganic epiit eines

| to representativity Res suffered techuse if tne Cisel
there now exiet two Cue.

