# 104-10326-10087

## Page 1

104-10326-10087

MHENO :

94-8695408

SECRET

SENSIND:

RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE :

FRP :

STAFF

ACTION: LA/ MCGMXB

(373) INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/LA, LA/TERR, LADORECORD, LIMITO,

MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/LA, DC/LA

(3/W)

948695408

ASR

PAGE 001

TOR:

022121Z DEC 94

IN 8695408

53620

SECRET 0221202 DEC 94 STAFF

CITE

53620 (NOWOCIN ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT LA/MCGMXB

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

*SUBJECT: <JFK ASSASSINATION>ISSUES

REF: (DIRECTOR 932373

24 8655989

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUESTED: NONE.

2.

AS HOS IS AWARE,

STATION CONTINUES TO CONDUCT JOINT

TELTAP OPERATIONS WITHL

J AGAINST THE RUSSIAN AND

CUBAN EMBASSIES; HOWEVER,

THE TAKE ON THE CUBANS IS VERY

WE ARE CURRENTLY IN THE PROCESS OF INITIATING A

UNILATERAL TELTAP OP AGAINST THE CUBAN EMBASSY AND SEVERAL

RESIDENCES.

THUS, ANY OFFICIAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF WHERE TELTAP

TAPES ON OSWALD WERE DERIVED WOULD HAVE DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON

CURRENTL

RELATIONSHIP. THEL

7 SERVICES AND

SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS CONTINUE TO BE SENSITIVE RE THE

NWBOLTON RELATIONSHIP, AND THERE ARE THOSE WITHIN THESE RANKS

WHO QUESTION WHETHER OR NOT THE MEXICANS SHOULD HAVE ANYTHING

MORE THAN A FORMAL RELATIONSHIE WITH NWBOLTON.

STATION BELIEVES

THAT ANY EXPOSURE (WHETHER OLD OR NEW) AT THIS STAGE OF THE

RELATIONSHIP (A NEW REGIME IS COMING TO POWER) WOULD

FORCE THE MEXICANS TO REASSESS THEIR RELATIONSHIP WITH US AS

WELL AS QUESTION OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN A DISCREET AND

PROTECTED RELATIONSHIP.

(IT WOULD ALSO GIVE OUR DETRACTORS THE

EXCUSE TO FURTHER REDUCE OR COMPLETELY BREAK OFF THE

GIVEN THE HIGH INTEREST OF POLICYMAKERS IN

NARCOTRAFFICKING, TERRORISM, AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE IN MEXICO,

THE PRESERVATION OF STATIONE

EQUITIES IS PARAMOUNT AT

STATION ENCOURAGES HOS TO CONTINUE TO DO WHATEVER IS

POSSIBLE TO KEEP THE LID ON THE BOX RE PREVIOUS JOINT OPS WITH

THE MEXICANS.

3. RE THE CN

INVOLVED IN THE TRANSCRIPTION OF THE

SECRET

FAPES,

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO: 94-8695408

SENSIND:

RYBAT

STATION PLANS TO DISCREETLY CHECK CONSULAR FILES TO DETERMINE

HE IS STILL RESIDING IN MEXICO.

IF NOCS IS IN MEXICO, WILL QUERY

IM RE HIS REACTION TO FULLER DISCLOSURE OF HIS ROLE WITH TH

NITIAL-STATION REACTION RE DISCLOSURE OF SNOCT

INVOLVEMENT WITH OSWALD (TAPES, AND IMPACT ON STATION OPERATIONS

IT COULD DRAW

WOULD PROBABLY

CLOSER U.S. BUSINESSMEN TRAVELLING AND OPERATING IN MEXICOS

FILE:

END OF MESSAGE

NONE.

DECL OADR DRV

SECRET

PAGE:

2

SECRET

---

