# 104-10246-10019

## Page 1

104-10246-10019

Pit 4413

malico

D'S PATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO

PROCESSING ACTION

i 0

MARKED FOR INDEXING

007 100

Chief, KURIOT Attn: Peter T. SWINEHART

XX

INFO.

Chief, WH Division

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chiet of Station, Mexico Cityla

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

AQUATIC/Operational - Monthly Operational Report 1-30 September 1964

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: FYI

Presented below is a report of the operational and support

activities of Hugh T. FRANCOTTE during the above mentioned period.

1. General Summary of Activities.

The major activity for the month of September was focused

upon photographic operations, utilizing the LIFIRE truck, and the

evacuation of the LIONION photographic basehouse.

A casing report

complete with photographs, for use in a future photographic

operation, was submitted and a

set of alias documents was issued

to complete the month's activities.

2. IDY:

None.

TDY Visitors.

None.

3. Iraining.

None.

4. Photographic Operations.

a. At the request of Wendy R. HARRIDGE, the LIFIRE

(continued)

Enclosure:

Report

Excluded tom autametle

downgrading and

machascitication

Distribution.:

2 - KURIOT, w/encls

1 - WH, w/o encls - To WH

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

• HMMA -24518

CLASSIFICATION

S•E C

RE

DATE

15 October 1964

HQS FILE NUMBER

50-6-18

#16142

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

HMMA-24518

TOKM

10.57 53a

(40)

photographic truck was utilized on 13

September. "Photographic

coverage was requested of the DIZTAG

installation, and atinough

photographic basehouse targeted against

this installation, HARRIDGE desired coverage of the front gate

from an angle other than that supplied by the basehouse.

_IFIRE truck, driven by Joseph M. RESCIGNO, was parked approxi-

nately i block from the target gate.

During the

four hours that

the truck was.."on location"

, Hugh T. FRANCOTTE sücceeded in

photographing. all individuals entering and departing the front

jate of the biLlAG installation.

From these negatives,

selected

D. photographs were obtained for the Station's use.

In preparation for a large scale

4 october, Ge

downtown section of Mexico City where the operation is scheduled

Photographic coverage will be required from both

truck and a room in a nearby hotel.

The photographs

and casing report greatly assisted in selecting the most

advantageous parking area for the truck, and the most suitable

hotel room.

The LIFIRE photo truck was

again utilized on

23 September at the request of Phineas F. SLINKARD

Since there

is no longer

a photographic basehouse covering the BEDOX Embassy,

SLINKARD was

intent onobtaining photographs of

"staffers" of this installation.

The LIFIRE truck,

ruck, driven byned

Joseph M. RESCIGNO,

parked for a period of three hours,

RANco me elt tableck merous to satials, enlargements

During this time,

FRANCOTTE

of which were incorporated into the Mexico City

Station "mug" book.

On a dark rainy morning of 28 September, FRANCOTTE

received an urgent request

Jeremy L. NIARCOS

photograph

the exterior of

the Station basehouses

targeted against

the FJSTEAL Embassy.

to the proximity of the target buildings,

the photography

to be accomplished from a moving automobile

only one pass could be attempted. FRANCOTTE, positioned in

the rear seat of a sedan

utilizing one of the new Pentax

cameras,

recently supplied from KUBIOT Headquarters, was successful

in obtaining the necessary coverage.

the request of the Deputy Chief of Station and

Michael C. CHOADEN, FRANCOTTE was instructed to evacuate the

LIONION basehouse of all photographic equipment and supplies.

With the recent publication of the Warren Report, and in the

interest of security, it was felt that all photographic equipment

should be removed for a period of 6 to 8 weeks.

Under the cover

of darkness on 26 and 27 September and with the aid of a rented

sedan, FRANCOTTE removed all equipment and supplies from the

basehouse facility,

The lower bathroom, utilized by LIFEUD/22 as a complete

darkroom

and the upper bedroom and ajoining bath, used

to house the Pulse camera, Balscope and Pako print dryer, were

stripped of all work tables, shelving

and cabinets and restored

to their original condition.

Black-out drapes were removed and

window glass repainted.

LIFEUD/22 and 23 were asked to

Mexico City and spend

a short vacation

They have just recently

returned, and until such time that it is

deemed advisable to

the photographic equipment in the

LIONDN basehouse, LIFEUD/22 will be occupied in performing other

support functions for the Station.

During the month of September, FRANCOTTE held twenty-

two agent meetings,

summoned to the LIONION basehouse in

an effort to repair the Pulse camera.

The unusually high number

of agent meetings was attributed to the fact that FRANCOTTE was

in close contact with LIFEUD/22 during the final two weeks of

September.

With the malfunctioning of the Pulse camera,

replace-

ment of the Exakta camera with a new Pentax, plus the necessity

15e SkeY 01291110N

51-28,

51-28A AND 51-29

SECRET

XX CONTINUED

2.

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

---

## Page 3

-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

HMMA -24518

for LIFEUD/22 to dispatch a surveillance

several

occasions, FRANCOTTE was meeting with L/22 on

almost a daily bais.

5.

"Station Support.

A portion of the photographic equipment, requisitioned

by FRANCOTTE during the latter part of May, arrived on 25 September

via the Naval Attache flight.

The equipment was

excellent condition and FRANCOTTE is gradually placing each piece

into operation.

The electrical/mechanical briefcase was

demonstrated to the Station case officers, all of whom were

impressed with this new

and excellent concealment device.

FRANCOTTE was particularly pleased with the arrival of the Nikon

Pentax cameras.

Andrew F. MERTON, Chief of Base, Merida,

Mexico City for consultation

ot 15. September.

A portion of his

visit was devoted to discussions with FRANCOTTE concerning

technical problems at the Merida Base.

FRANCOTTE demonstrated

the Pentax-Balscope arrangement to MERTON, who had mentioned that

he had nothing of this type available at

the Merida Base.

MERTON was so favorably

impressed that he requisitioned

for immediate shipment to Merida.

In support of a

KURIOT Postal Intelligence Section,

Mexican postage stamps

standing RANconte purchasent, 000 the

on 17 September.

October mailing,

forwarded

These stamps, for the

to KURIOT Headquarters via

HMMA-24369 dated 24 September 1964.

d.

18 September, FRANCOTTE processed and printed

167 frames

of microfilm

at the request of visiting TDYer

Thomas G. URQUHART.

e.

is continuing satisfactorily,

Thatisfactorniy, withea total of 1300 feet of

section

microfilm processed by FRANCOTTE during this reporting

period.

Seventy-five feet of microfilm was

exposed

17 September to fulfill a monthly requirement for the Chief of

Station and Staff D.

A total of 59 job orders were completed during

this reporting

period, with

a print production grand

total of

982..

There is no backlog at the present time.

h. Hugh T. FRANCOTTE completed 6 hours

of tutorial

Spanish language instruction during

the month of September.

6. Secret Writing Activity.

None.

7. Elaps and Seals Operations.

At the request of Phineas F. SLINKARD, FRANCOTTE waS

asked to completely

restore one envelope.

The envelope,

opened by a contact of SLINKARD's, was received in

poor condition by FRANCOTTE.

Access to the contents of

envelope

had been accomplished by "dry opening"' an end flap.

Severe fiber tears were observed on bath the

flap and interior

portion of the envelope.

FRANCOTTE opened the entire envelope,

envelope the done sembles

and reapplied new glue.

allowed to press overnight.

The following day the contents were reinserted and the

envelope

resealed.

The envelope was

then returned to the source and

inserted

into the local mail system.

FORM

10.57 53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51-28. 51•28A AND 51.29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

XX CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

3.

---

## Page 4

-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

HMMA-24518

8. Documentation.

On 29 September, Floyd N. AIMONET requested FRANCOTTE:

to document

John R. SANDAMANIE with various U.S.

alias documents.

documents were to be used in assisting SANDAMANIE in

automobile,

in support of. a Station operation.

Numerous credit and "flash" cards were

issued by FRANCOTTE,

including a state of_

,. operator's license.

9. Operational Diéquise Activity.

The technical assistance of Lola M. CAPOZZI was not

required in support of any Station operations during this

reporting period.

10. Miscellaneous Statistics.

a. Number of Operational target surveys completed

during the month: 0.

b. Numer of TDY trips completed during the month: o.

c. Photographic equipment issued for operational use: 0.

d. Photographic equipment repaired: 0.

Number of people trained in photographic techniques/

equipment:

11. Production Figures on Jobs Processed.

a. Black and White: 59 jobs.

(1). Total prints: 982.

(2) 35mm microfilm: 1,400 feet.

(3)

35mm cassettes: 41.

(4)

120 size roll film: 4.

(5) Sheet film

(all types): 8.

b. Color:

jobs.

c. KURIOT Station Support.:

(1)

Secret Writing: 0.

(2). Flaps and

Seals: / envelope.

(3) Chemical Harassment:

0.

Francatt

er. Willard C. CURTIS

VIN

FORM

10.57. 53c

(40)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

51-28, 51-23A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

_CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

4.

---

