# 104-10256-10300

## Page 1

104-10256-10300

SECRET

(When Filled In)

108301

DATE PREPARED

REQUEST FOR PERSÓNNEL ACTION

15 September 1964

SERIAL NUMBER

2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

025798

WILCOTT, James Bernard, JI.

3.

NATURE OF PERSONNEL

ACTION

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MONTH

DAY

TEAR

Reassigment & Transfer to Vouchered Funds

V TO Y

V. TO CF

6. FUNDS

9.

CF TO V

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

CF TO CF

Regular

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE- 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by

ABLE

Office of Personnel)

5277-0003

10. LOCATION OF

OFFICIAL STATION

DDS

OFFICE OF FINANCE

Confidential Funde Division

Compensation and Tax Accounts Branch

Contract Agenta Accounts Section

POSITION TITLE

241.7as

80: 6700

Washington, D. C.

12.

POSITION NUMBER

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

Finance Assistant

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE AND STEP

.=0.

17.

SALARY OR RATE

GS

0510.16

714

6650. •

IB.

REMARKS

dee Ent

From:

FE

CONCUR:

Date 2 1 SEP 1964

Securihr

wl has been granted for

the use

Via Osborne

FE/Persomel Chiel, Personnel Security Division

Sec

Forme Wel In

I8A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

SEIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROXING

DATE

SI GNED

- OFFACER

romin

Acting Chief, CST Division

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21.

CODE

CODE

OFFICE CODING

122. STATION

CODE

23. INTEGREE

CODE

Adm. Officer-OLinance

OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

24. HOOTRS. 25, DATE OF BIRTH

26. DATE OF GRADE

CODE

MUMERIC

28. NIE EXPIRES

то..

DA.

¿ 29, SPECIAL

-REFERENCE

30.

VR.

CSC

• FICA

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

35.." VET.

PREFERENCE

CODE

36. SERV.

190.

COMP.

DA.

DATE

VR.

37. LONG.

но.

4t.

CODE

• MONE

- 5 PT.

•10 PT.

PREVIOUS

COVERNMENT SERVICE

: DATA

1o

*NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

- NO BREAK IN SERVICE

- BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YRS)

3 = REAN IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS)

DA.

vR.

A2. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

Lot

PREVIOUS

1852A.

EDITION

27. DATE OF LEI

мо.

DA.

YA.

MO.

DA.

TR.

то.

DA.

TR.

31, SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE

ТУРЕ

10.

DA.

YA.

33. SECURITY

: 3% SEX

REO, NO.

EOD DATA

38. CAREER CATEGORY

CAR/RESV

PROV/TEMP

39.

CODE

FEGLT / HEALTH INSURANCE

- MAIVER

HEALTH INS.. CODE

1 - YES.

HO- SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

43.

FORM EXECUTED CODE

1 - YES

2 = NO

FEDERAL

TAX DATA

det,

ANO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

FORM EXECUTED

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

YES

- NO

reife

46. 0.P. APPROVAL

No SA 2E5110

NO TAX STATE CODE

EXEMP.

DATE APPROVED

FORM

8. 62

1152

OBSOLETE

AND

FORA

SECRET

9/365

(4)

GROUP

DEO FRO DECASSATEA VON GRADINE

---

## Page 2

125

RESIGN EFFECTIVE

(Date)

0И 004156- 119-691:71:34

SECRET

* (When' Filled In)

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:

COFFEe. BEEICE ST PENSANNEi

SEP 28 SEP 38 A11O g7 AM '64

MAIL ROMAIL ROOM.

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE

DATE SIGNED

FORWARD COMMUNICATIONS. INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND. BOMOS

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number

C/"7E

Items 1 thru 7

--- and

Items 9 thru 18a

--.Item-5-

Item. 9

INSTRUCTIONS

The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items.

Items 3 thru-T and 9 thru 18 require information which pertains only

to the action requested, and NOT to the current status al the elz:

ployee unless specific items remain unchanged.

"TATTI! 71

""Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

Part Time.

WAF

Detail Out

Consultant

Temporary

Detail In

Military

Temporary. -Part Time:

"Organizational Designations" should show all levels.of organization

pertinent to identifying the location of the position.

Major Component (Director, Deputy Director, etc.)

Office,: Major Staff

3TOCUCS

Faa Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)

Branch .

Section

Unit

2:.

7...

T"s "Position Title" should reflect the standard abbreviated title given

In the most current edition of the Position Control Register or re-

ported on Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization.

Item

Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for

the Career. Service to which the employee belongs. If more than one

Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Service should approve

3. 1.

.. and the other-Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks.

ROUTING - The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel

through the appropriate Career Service official(s). In the case of requests

specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance approval of or notification to

the Office of. Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy only will be

sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET:

---

