# 104-10307-10064

## Page 1

1104-10307.00641

• DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CAUTION- LINARAN

SECURE STORAGE

IN FIELD

ORIGINATOR'S REQUEST FOR HOS. PROCESSING

INDEXING REQUESTED

TO

NO INDEXING

INFO.

Chief of Station,

APERTURE CARD REQUESTED

FROM

Chief, LA Division

SUBJ RYBAT REAM/Request for Identification of Photographs

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

1.

We request that the attached photographs of an unidentified

man be shown to SLAPSTICk- for

identification as soon as possible.

A photograph of this man was published in the Warren Commission

report on the assassination of President Kennedy.

Copies of the

photograph have been widely distributed in news media by journalists

critical of the Warren Connission investigation.

The unidentified

man visited the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City during

October 1963.

he was described as approximately

"35 years of age,

is of october 196 about a feet tall, blond receding

hairstre with calling top, and dressed in chaisa a sport shere.

We wuld appreciate any information SLAPSTICK-1 is able to

provide on this individual. Please return the photograph

completion of query.

Pamela P. LARRABEE

Attachment:

a/s

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - cos,

E2, IMBDET

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CL BY 059405

Internal Distribution:

1 - IP (201-)

1. - LA/COG/ CHRONO

1 - LA/CAR

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFPW -1298

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

01144/ COG/WH

OFFICE SYMBOL

AC/LA/COG

DATE

DATE

8 March 1977

HOS FILE NUMBER

19-6-154/3

ORIGINATING

/ rkd

COORDINATING

OFFICER'S NAME

EXT] 819

DATE

140)

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

THRATCH

---

