10-4 (Hsca)

24 MAR 1978

JMEMORANDUM FOR:

PROM
Group
Staff
SUBJECT Committee on Assassinations
ques
REFERENCE . : Letter for OLC fr Chief Counsel/Director

of HSCA, dtd 8 Mar 78

1. In response to the request in Reference, CCS files
contain information on five of the 19 individuals listed, as
follows:

y Brown - Four documents contain
ane Stebbens Brown, born 12 August
wife of George Stanley Brown,

a. Mrs. G.
references to Ve
1928 in Waynoka,
born 18 May 1926
from 1952 to 1962.

b. David -E. phy - Approximately 100 documents
concerning primariiy the establishment, maintenance
and use of cover. for Subject during his Agency career “
as a Staff Employee from April 1948 to July 1975.

c. Grayson ‘Grayston) Lynch - ApproNimately 60
documents; concerning the establishment, maintenance ..
and use of covér for Subject during his Agency career
from February 1961 to September 1971. . Upon retirement

in 1971, shiect gave Tampa, Florida, as his forwarding
address.

ds. Rai roximatcly 50 documents con-
cerning Ro »_born 21 June 1913 in

Hattisbu

P26080

et SERRET oe aes

SFretiiy ALIGENS
AAD METHOD!



ac 7, 7 SECRET

ccs files a approximately ments on a
Robert T. M >sorn 19 otdand,

“California, ; from
September 1

docuacats con-

) in Chicago,
ployee fron ees 1967 to
cuments concern primarily the

ance and use of cover for Subject
er. Upon resignat¢ion in 1972,
rding address.

e. Bill
cerning Willia
Illinois, an
January 1972.
establishment,
during his Agency
Subject left no fo

2. CCS files contain no information on the remaining
individuals listed in Reference request.

Distribution:

Orig §&+1 - Addressee
- SA/DO/O
- 10-4H (HSCs
~. RC-5128 (3B
RC-1049: ¥
- RC-16402 (Lynch)
- RC-4271 iene e
- RC-1571
-_CCS/PRG
| chron

epererereren ators)
:

SEGRE

