# 104-10233-10000

## Page 1

104-10233-10000

SECRET

21 May 1062

MEMIORANDIA FOR RICOND NO. $3/8

SULUDOT. Two Lotters from Cule.

him and Mrs. Miro from the

Boonuse of

the vittor saroam in the lorto., It ls rather Interesting.

Following lo a lasty translation of this lottert

I rito to you again for mysolf and for my fantly wahing

you tho

boat of hoalth and congratulations for the happy aurgle

oal operation to whioh was submittod El Chanado - presumably

• relativo or friend of theiro. .?: .:.. It la a pity that

you cannot see the benutiful spootaole which lavana offera now

all garlanded vith innumerablo Cuban flogs. You aight think 1t

was bofore 1059. I mean rod flags. Thie le renily something

that kindlos the patriotio love, but patriotio Ruesian love.

The hymn of Porucheo appears. not to sound woll and thoy are

revloing 1t, sinoe almost never 1a it playod and 1e boing ro

placed by the beautiful and heavy intornational hyun which 1a

the real hymn of all the "workers of the world." At all hours

constantly 1t 1o hoard. Thie 1a a marvel, "so aro in the boat

possiblo altuation" rita abundanoo of steel, auon steel, wiloh

they are sending to ua in a"sonerous and disinterested" manner,

the great Russian nation "chaaplot of poace," whioh arma 1taoll

and conducts nulear tests to proserve the world from war to

wiIch 1t wants to onrry the "Yankoo Imperiallet."

Thorofore, Russia, at the ond of last year, "broko tie

• 1.

SECPET

---

## Page 2

100000

SECOSy

voluntary promiso of not conductiny, nuolenr tosts" and now 1t

opposos tho inspootion wilch 1a "anothor onso of a solone for

ospionago," and at the sario timo protoota thio Amorioan toste na

OlEO dOos TIE: SOCIALIST CUIAN GOVELHENT, "Buoh a lOVor Of 1100"

loh corerntulates the Soviet Union whon it conduote teste.

T1s, I repost, 10 a charuine place. Ho have "auoi abundanoe"

that of what la loft over wo are sonding to Rumula and other

• sootallate countries, which aro suoh frionda of ours and no muoh

havo assistod and snorifloed for us, foode, Erning, oandioo, 8ho08,

and no forth, and they sond us vory much atoel which seeds to bo

vory good and at tho some tino indonted thnt the himan organlan

may have much onergy, Hore we aro all "so happy and contented"

that nobody has tho idea of writing in a nogazine or newspapor or

wh1oh

talkins by radio or toloviaion sonetling rould indioato a oritiolen

or consor of tho magnificont and unimprovable und vithout equal

rosino, rinoo there to "nothing to be the cause of 1t.

This le a hunanden roally and a vory exemplary case for all

Amorios, "oinoo human righte aro fully roopooted with auch an

exquialto and dolicato troationt of the prisoners," the relatives

boing able to sue then fraquently although "they cannot take them

Soodstuffa" boodunn "li lu not necesary in elon of the «bundanoo

whioh oxiats in all tho country " The vorior le bottor than he

has "novor soon himsclf borore," sinoo now for love of the country

(not to maintain tho imtintors of lugsla) they work earning less,

giving oxtra hours Ireo, suorifloing days without pay, trying to

holy the production beoone greater and the consumption lose, he-

cause now 1t 1e really true that thoy eat parejo" (yarejo means

on oqual torms, just allke. This inpllos that overybody haa

nothing):

SECRET

Sime

---

## Page 3

I do not underatand hor you canot booome enthuslantlo with

thia paradiso of Fidol and of the conrados miloh hovo suoooeded

In making Cubn what oould not be obtalled in ne nany youre of

Ropublionn Ilfo. Thoso no "oertainly a donoornoy in which the

poople aro the ornore of ovorything and who aro in tho power and

command," And all this la done onsily in popular sseublios In

which Fidel soye want and the othore (doesn't make any difference

what the number) raiso the hand or the fingor. In this way, 10

1€ 18

1o vory oloar that/the pooplo who are in ohargo and "dosire,"

Naturally, evorything here 1a done voluntarily In suoh way that

1t cannot be eald that they are obliged to attond, sinoe we are

a Iroe country of Amorion. It mould bo a calumy to say that

hore the lueslone are in command or the Chinose or the Croche and

that wo aro a "pos of the King, " boonuse they "ilvo very badly

hore in very bad houses with old oars, soarde food, and while

they are snorifioing, the Cuban poople are onjoying enviable cou

fort and fooda.* Naturally, the Cuban poonlo know how to seoog.

niro the solf-denial and anorifice of these"good frlonde of Cuba:"

Now they any (In a very low voice) that there will be

another amhango of money. It must bo that the current money

prosente a danger of an opidemio for ite sturdinons and thoy are

oonoerned for the good of the people and will give other elean

money. Now, shon there in suoh an abundance of soap, It alao

that they are very happy with the seok betwoon the 15th

and aand of thie month alnoo there has been & denonetration of

atholane

You are very auch romembered and sinceroly lovod by

SESHET

---

## Page 4

El Nogrito.

SECRET

Tho other lottor in from @ Cuban woman who de a rola-

¿aro of tho Miro Innily und vritos to hor dauchtor.

You do not know how worry I ma that you lnven't boon here

on Mother's Day in ordor to linvo boon able to sond you to out

sugar one and conaldor sysold a lnppy mother, a real Nartana

Grajales, tho sonds her oliluren to oarry out their duty outting

oano. During thone days thoro are nothing lat mottoes and

matohworde and that to all you hear liatoning on the radio and

tolovlalon. I boltove that tioro won't do a slurlo Cuban loit

who will not hear tie oall to his hoart and onrry out lie duty,

ha ha:

Tho Gusanorla (this moons the Worm Pooplo, the anti-Castro

peoplo) 1s stirring up disturbanoos nowadays. Xon will say

that tito lovermont 1s musing a point of ite hunanian and doean't

want to torninate with 1t. Thoy havo committod torrifio aota,

suol as burning cano, farse, ovoperatives, laboratorios, raa worke,

coally a torriflo anount:

..*

In order to relax, they so to the noviod riore ploturos of

the fine toan are put on, such as the Czooh 11lm, "Muorto

Aoaballo" (Death on llorsobnok), where tho protaconist auffore an

anoident along with his horso, ho profore o horae, and in ordor

not to aoo him suffer denides

to shoot him. Ton the pablo,

Wiioh

goon for this purpose, slouto, "kill him, givo the caballo

(horso) a shot." (Notor Thie 1a a Joke among Cubans bocauno

the Diotator Castro 1n vallod El Caballo,) In anothor plotura,

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

"Around the world 1n linhty Days," Choy oome out to a tablo full

of coodtes (Imperinliot 1100) and tho poople anout, "Abneers,

wo are hunry " lo. Hero nothing to laokinf ve all eat

projo (nlike) (no all nro hungry allko), Tho Ung (Sooret Polloo)

hnd to anter the movie honans and arrest many. 'In one show,

whion prosonted "Pototo," they were prosenting a change of soone

and kopt on showing differont plotes with photographa of

kept

Prosidents of the Imporiallet epooh and the hardost/eaying,

"thros it out in tho trash." thon thoy show ono of sidol, ho sayo,

"That one No, hang that one up." They arrosted him for the

shouting wich took plaoe and now they say that ho 1e in asylul.

Right now the Govornment has soen itcolf obliged to diotato that

• porson who traitortously abandone the country must loavo hito

houso 24 or 48 houro beforo taking the plane: That la to say,

hon thoy oome to oheok hin belongings, the pollue oome and a

mombor of the Cormittee of the nlook and won they are going to

soal the house, a pollooman conos up and the samo mombor of the

Comittee. This is done in order that nothing oon be takon out,

noither boforo nor aftorwards. Wint a sad and vile task, that of

the persone who pro on the Conmiiteo. Thia measuro 1e due, they

Bay, to a triols of the "moharo" (guardiola). The day beforo

emberking, ho tiroke the furniture, the sadlo, the roirigorator,

the tolovision, oto., but a noighbor to heard hia denoiuood him.

and, upon taking

the plano thoy took his off and took him to the

house, thus proviny the olvic not onrriod out by the noighboring

"ohivate," the noighboring Intomor (clivata 1o a slans burd tor

Informor). Now thoy do not let him loave again until ho has re

-8-

SECRET

---

## Page 6

Purntolen the house complotoly, Mist

do you think of that?

Hut tho

conatruotivo work of the rovolution continue.

What

brazon poople.

Where ovoryonn rooe thoy are finlahing with ovory-

t: 174, •

Now thoy aro koing to lonvo only one norto houne por olty

distrlot. Tho toot will be dodlontod to odicativo inlke for the

poople. Thoy did not know that the inbullo was lod up with

hoaring, tho tolke of tho ond on Christmoe Evo. Tile 1e wet he

said In a tolk in Mortanzass "Iut of what atuld lo that man

nade 019

Now thoy are prohibiting that the dootors put on cortifi

cates of dontl that the doath te due to ordino oollapso. Don't

you see that tils was a lenkoo manouvor with tho modios wanting

to show that hero everyhody dies

of hourt attacks?

0s tho oontrol tass looks, thoy aro colas to take avay tire

quota of rion for ollaron and that of mont for poruons older

than 7 years and loss than 60 yoars. To ent so nuoh 1e an ugly

Importaltet ouston. Yosterday your aust and I wont to the storea

and 18 you oould soo how funny the ouployens ore makint tholr

tears, at uncos no siifforondo to them to hava drunk botoro or

aftorvarie a plaas of milk or judoe and ay no, that thoy are

carrying out their duty of soolaliat Morality. The otores aro

terrible. Linoupe are 600 to 1,000 persons, uithout exasporation,

to get a pair of stockingu at 82.30 without boing wrappod up and

logar. For a fei Kirdles tint thoy took out, a trom-ndous ruah

was caused to such my e:trome tiero were ovon shots firod. To

thoso tin rocolvo scholarslips, thoy are alven tronndone homage.

- 6a

SECRET

...

---

## Page 7

SEUnET

The Caballo (Unntro) talkod to thoa, Those are the only Cabon

Mothora, the othore who lavo tholt done prisoners were denying

for Cuba ront lllorty aro not Mothern, thoy are "bltohed."

Thus

they sro told huolilan, Conauolito Vidal, Copero Brito and

Motea Alvaros luodes (those are keopinr, company together with

M. Ortoga, tho old grandiathor of Patriflo, miloh nakos ono nad.)

The atudente of Cuba have convertod thonselves exolusively anto

bribe takera for a plate of food. It la ahauerul. Non, dot even

this olass, whioh was the purest, oxiats here:

Friday night, they showed by tolovision an operation on the

Jung of a dog by an ominont soviot wise man, with a marveloua

Russian Inatrimonte, only one in tho world and what the Anerloan

dootors rould lavo done 1u four or iive hours, those eninont

peoplo did in Live muutos. Now they did not present the prop.

aration of the oporation, nor did one see then elve the stitohem,

nor have they told that the dog died; Altorward, they toloviaed

an oxposition of unique soviet modioal produote. Lot then ask

Boro that four injeotions of anosthosla woren't suffiotont to

your poor grandmother

oxtraot from him a molar and aftorwarde they loft/do with the

whole nouth uloeratod, which ainlo doso of Russian pen101ll1n

given by & dontor at the beginnin; of the year almost caused her ,

to bo takon to the onetory. Now all day long they are with

the operation, but de it perhape that tho Cubana cannot sorgod

of the many and groni operationa carriod on by a lodrigues DiAs,

a Vicente Renot, they will forget of they will not know the 18-

norant ones of 1001 but the othere no.

You know that what they aube San Pedro (Saint Potar) naid

to lennedy, *You trie care of the dinner and I will tako caro of

---

## Page 8

Annin

1

-EÜRET

tho wator.". 'Now thoy are ourrying on a campaign about tho drought

to mako those taboulles holloro that the inos of sono foods, such

as nilk, le due to the drought. A 110. In Cube for muny yoars

thore was a drought, hut for that renson thore wae no lnok of

milk, food, oto.. All thie 19 laoking heoause of very bad adain.

fatration boonuse ovorything do taion away which de worth having

for Russle, evon the oorth being varriod via tie dooks of Rogla

In a Rusalan boat. It'e a shame all that la haypening 1a Cuba,

and if some day these poople luave hero, they are not even going

to Inavo any around.

but I cortainly bollove that thoy will fo

main in the minde of the Cuban for all the life as the vory bad

thing that 1e this Comuniat rogino and how uistaken vore all

those who defended it•

Grootings to ovoryono over thora, sinco I have no more for

today to toll you and sond affootionato greotingo.

S/ Antonia

May 14, 1002

SEGRET

---

