# 104-10175-10184

## Page 1

104-10175-10184

C0L206S25182

SECRET

Ph. file: 20.1

LIHUFE-I

MINORANDON YOR IN: ENCORD

saner? Hendqueter Brelleg for Inparentativea os

the Mazloo City Murican Chamber of Comerce

In me more metins took pince on 2 say In the conferense too

I the Beadquarters bailding me fallouts nabers of the Chambe

attended tas secting:

1) Mi. demon C. Oliver, member of the Burt of Traters

tadvanity as the merlem and on publlcity coitte

the mertcan Chuber of Comere In Merteo.

2) Mr. M130rd I SeasoN, marber of tha Deltoe Henking

Corporation, Mertoo City.

3) MI. Tomer Ho Sonloy, direetor seneral of Compenta

Mexico de Atlacion.

5) No dadd Auntin, Layer, Merses City.

6) Mr. Bellell Stringst, prusident, Stringer & Asoctater,

Nurseo City.

T) Mi. No Bo Wicitrtah, eneutire nith foyal Croun Cala.

3o The seeting comened ut 1:45 pall, and tesminated three hours

Rater.

Introductory renars to the prory sere made by IDal A lio

Aloo sutroduend the meater, ISll B. The other participant man In C

of Myle IDI D Erre a goneral and Incid exposition on Cuban communist

actirities in latin tarles end on the sovies fusence in taxico.

loris the latter mif of the meting th discion vas turned o

sevalosents in ked00 and too Unlted Stutes Chamber of Comeree as

tolnto vers anted to expreas thris vers en the pollins:

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

-z-

(8) PRI - Ire prevelling oyinion vas tist the fli is a

sterilizia, influence irithin the comily tin that is solidarity i

effectiveness is increasing.

siistd the 2d to suriodig unicsiced

the courtry would suffer serica disorders. Lia jid is presentig

uzierzoir; = transitional perica and is portercia; its Iscooni: i =05

caugity "arass rocts opinion.

It is escestic? unso in alecous i2

this sricrt since the public et ange las Licut in die Last ducece

bare cophisticated and sore at calate.

So win, all-iTortort

objective oi the FRI io to mirain the "zi scial".

(b) Presidential Dlacticas (1970) - Ta prevallity opinich cas

that it is too carly to say with a dogres of cortainty in vill cucceed

to tas residency.

1s 1t is ituna traditimail, sa lucio in siste

instaroes, tha ninister of Golenacion nos tear va =jaio" (us:

desigriated one).

Forever, at tais junctura inin tilo toat the sure

IIie-j candidate vould be the rajor of larico Citi, Co=caa del 12321.

The reneral feeling ves that the cuccessci to FLasiden Dia: Oniz

woule be a livera,

I'nere

wes Sonerci agrecuent that the "Irner Council" musià Iot raise a

cecisica concerning the presidarial cardicate unus: 1909 at the

earliest.

(c) "The Inner Council" - the group was unaritoi in the can-

viction that netional policy is comulates by ua presilent with a

5a1l poverful comittee, consosed priscipally di roaditicial severs.

1i7. Oliver vas convinced that, tie soveral karan circles ui kerico

have nembership in this couscil.

He poinuei cuo time tris is a isjical

certainty "since the banks cortsoled abort lu, vi uli inductay in tie

courtri."

Otcers vere unanizoas that certain lezairy industrialists

end comercial interest also vera part e2 1io =-er ounci.

rise

paricipants were unable to sgecity any sirgle peitas as being o Laz-

ber of the council and vore urable to describe viis Iner Counci with

eny degree of certainty althoug: sevezz veil-icin business locier vere

centioned as possibilities, such as Eruzo raglisa, 6a210s Irouet end

Kenuel Iriesias aspinosa.

(a) The REPAMS Furor - Vr. Oliver volunteami the obserration

that the LiPaRiS exposure as 1t 125 plajoi di

Finican press did

not care any upsetting results in Mexico ail's= an la could tell.

said that "OFACT handled the situation "excizaaly wall" and obsarred

that "orAcT's public relations ofticers rust 03 ci die nigneut caliber.

ie also said that the prevailing opinicn eong taxicans concernino

these exposures was simply:

"So sihat?"

(e) El Dia - Several of the ncabers say ci the opinion that the

cost influencial raper vithin lexico, at least for covernment aficiala

and other peoale who may be tered opinica maicia,

is the newspayer

31 Die, which has a circulation of

approximately 40, 000 daily.

neaspaper 1s leftist in tone and generally oussoolca an inportcat

dovestic and intemutional ratters.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Eug and direst danlings in the roent part with curiolide artleers

and felt that they more inatrectual and unresponsive. The group

vosend the option that they mula velous clone cooperation vita.

NOPACT BInsIOn 11 Mix100 and even expreaned the hope that occailonel

romatable mostines, such us the one today, could be sobeduled i

Manoo Osty. It was generally seroad that the was probably not

tomatole.

the «foste of the lorict oticars.

3o IDal A closed the meting with the rumaat that 1t be enm

BIdered contsdantial and not be unde the mabjeet of conversatio

with othere outade the excus

SECRET

---

## Page 4

N: 1!'

lli, zee.d

LOEF A

M1!1

110

2es

---

