# 104-10218-10012

## Page 1

104-10218-10012

HOUSE SELECE COMMITSE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF NEARERS

FILE TITLE/NUER VOLINE: HALPERIN; MURICE

LOUSE DECIMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEYED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NOT REVIEWGO BY MSCA

NO DOCUJENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

i?-.

---

## Page 2

SECHST

+ 561-3757754

NESTE

• NEt 1333

MENTIDAS PLE

D1se0b

ittatloas lir. do de Fapdai

SU3U202

Burunu FIlo Famber 65-14303

Is bas cou to cr attoztin thronh e traltito axce

Sa Basou, wor, as lon to the fallong irraulo.

84 La ELeUSA theO Denjosia FASTOY Le ecunotal alta tha

Ienatos at 260 deslo

"adister!

sis offlos has so infuratien Mentiteble with et throz

Denjaria ou "ypedais rastivo la unila aprodiata beire furiahsa

sy roraimat inimattos en the Funvio that ig ho costinal la

Siganda dareo dialou

SHER ABITO

0035-3/757.706

Distribations

OriE. & 1 = Addraasoa

.1 = C/CI

- H/3

- RD (201-123561)

3

- CISI

1

— CJ/IIA

1 - CI/R2A

REJECTED FOR MICROFILM

CHARGED FROM IP/CRS

CI/ 3ID

MD2

Desenber 1959)

ES COPY

SECRET

---

## Page 3

22.7

""".

te ree 39

3202221

GECRET

fe 11

• DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

acharo

- 200

=0:-7: "

:: 857743

DIP

970

UTE

N: 102-1

1Ó LiKATER ADVISES MENI DESIRES USFORT SALAFROCE 600

FONICA DOT STATE MEX! INSPECTOR INMIGRATION AT NUEVO LADEO:

¡FORENSE DE SY LISA VIMIGRITION ANSPECTOR IN LAREDO DE MES

NOT RECLINEO ORERS TO ADMIT TICK TO U.S.

2. 1CH8: CURELAT REQUESTS THAT UOS. INSPECTOR LAPIDO DE

•:GIVEN CAUCRO ACCEPT MANO E ANO INFORMA LEXI INSPECTOR RUTEO

LAREDO BIEN ME PECEINES THIS CACERO DEPORTATIORE WILL MOT EN

FETATTEMITES DEFERE SUSMA ORDER GALEN AND NEXI INSPECTOR INORIE

3e. M934. GOVT. FLAMINO DEFOTT ABOUT EIGHT MORE M.S. 5599º1E

INCLUDHG MALFERING

HILE. SUFFLY MATES AND OTHER DATA iN PESE

FALL AZALT CONFIRSATICIE THEDICH LIKAYAT-2 MESEMI

RE ADMITICO USA GRIDE INSTITUTIRO ACTION

24 CINAYRE-S FEPORTS MEXIANXIOUS STEP UP ANTI CORME

'ESTOCIALIY POPORTATION DIS. AND OTHER FOREIGA COMIS

"ENO CE LESSAGE

AGATO 1F CONCIO.09

SE ECOS SE MEXICAN DEPET

Ho/perin

---

## Page 4

ta-inden

^ Fù

211

Thome t. Dunn

Int= (5-60) 05121

A Glassery of labroviations

Agonolos of Allied sovernat

CONFIDENTIAL

sis muld apireoiato recelring tuo e pioa of Red ho. 2510

the asore aubjoat for the blaison Office, Xo? Branoh.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

It. Raguona Deston

Могаво Ні Зоннт

CID AcCesOlOned DoCuzentS

11 Novezber 1944

CONRIOENILM

I rould very much appreciate receiviug copies

of the folloning C.I.D. acceasioned documents

fos transmitte to tie iBl for their retnation:

95178 C

95177 C

Source: Marron 11/8

CONRELNTAL

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Ite. Birpard 1F9990299

Horsce W. Peters

Ei is da Doouments

11 NoTeber 1944

CONFIDENTIAL

I would very much appreciate receivini copies

of the fOLlowing & t A documents for

trans

mittal to too ibl for taeir retention:

• R & A 2624

B & A 2623

CONNDENTIAL

Source: Marron 11/8

---

## Page 7

14-00000

heir ll.

• Ito Rionard Hartshorne

Isto Thomas H. Lunn, ut.(1.E0), UsNa

Ibalcon 011100, Xo& Brinch

R & A Docunente

7 December 1944

I sould approdiate receiving copies of the

folloning as A documesto for tranmittal to

the JBi for lts rotontion:

8 & d 1552

R& A 1719

No would also liko to bave a copy of dooment

E. & A 2038, "Scopo End Oporation of Gensorphip

1n China" to be rotalned in the files of tbis

officco

CONHIDENTIAL

+ 2070(5

5.3

---

## Page 8

T...

Ito Richard Hartshorne

Lot. Thomas Hi, DunD, Lieut (J0B0), USE

R & A Documenta

& December 1944

I would appreolate recoiving a copy of the

following & & A document for transmittal to

the FBI for its retention:

& A 2396

mvin

Source: FBI 11/30

---

## Page 9

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

It. Raymond Doston Wartshor ne

deto

ThosES *. Duan, Lieut, (1060), USAB

¼* Branch

C.J.Do Aocessioned Documenta

1 December 1944

I would appreolate receiving a copy of the

followag laI.D, socestloned document for

tronanittal to the FBI for its retention:

100456 R

Source: FBI 11/29

CONFIDENTIAL

.34

---

## Page 10

arities

5/10 44

TEL HOYS CONVERSATION HIT UR. MILEUR'S SECY. R & A AND B.A. TONELL.

RE: 1HO'S WHO IN CHINA (Biograshies of Chinese Leaders)

I talked

to ir. Wilbur's secretary, B& A, 5%. 2231 and requested

the publication "ho's ino in China'as nell as the supplerent to the

fjith edition dated 1940 which was reprin ed bj c.I.

She said that ther

had a copy of the supplement and she is soing to see if we ein have that

cops, or if not, she will ret us a copy Iron ONI as well as che original

publication.. She will phone me: today.

in 5/1/44 115. illcur's secretary called back and said that above publica

tion must be obtained from OrI - Jeorge Taglor. I phoned Tailor and he

said he rould send me the publication.

:?:

2:..

"it..."

---

## Page 11

14-00000

OSS Ext. 520

4/20/44 TELEFHONE CONVERSATION BETTIN LT. DESTUS'S SECRETARI/ (R & A)

AND B. A. TONElI

It. Destan's secretary advised me that interrogations of passengers

returning on the Gripsholm, warch o, were not in 3& A files but

It was possible that the Foreign Experts Group in New York right

have-those interrogationg.

she is contacting dew York and mill

advise.

4/27/44 Deston advised ne that there was no inforration available

on these interrogations. - BAT

4/2?

-di,

Racerce: Requesha by Pluminer

:9:-37542i-

---

## Page 12

• CORNBENTIAL

2 July 2445

Latin Marica Divisior

I. Jo Gearge Gately

11a1s0n 0111005, 1 Bransh

"Unton Popular Venesolana»

The sttached repart sua the PBI la tranzalited

an por your request es 14 June

cathas

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 13

4-00000

SECRET

Iloat. Rayand Desses, USIn

Chlot, Contral Infornatior Divisten

Ir. J. George Gately

13a160n OfFICEr, 8-2 Brene

C.I.D. Docunant 8i0. A=56534

12 Fune 1945

The attached document was rade avallable by your

branch to the FBI.

Jou will note that in Paragrash 3 there

1a a portion of the text sissing.

It would be appreciated 1f you would make a new

copy avallablo.

si tate.

ter is not

SEGREE CONNEL.

---

## Page 14

D

hr• Harold Welshurg

Latin borden Dirtioni

9 June 1945

"Commiet Activitien in Boliva"

The attuched suport fron the PaI la transmiltod as per your

requeste

Attachaont

SECRET

---

## Page 15

2. SEORET CANTROL

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

WASHINGTON 25. D.C.

12-1295-03

5 June 1945

--.

Mr. Aiden

Mr Carson

lamorandun for: It C. Darwin Marron

Subject:

Communist Matters and Others

The attached C.I.D. accessioned documente

are transmitted for your infornation and retention:

A-5653%

4-56552

A-56553

A-56613

George Gately

-2 Branch

Attuchmente . 4

Paliti cal

Win it ca

CORET CONTROL

---

## Page 16

14-00000

bout raymond vestone vs

Chies, Cantral Intormation Divlade

Nelson CIficar, X-2 Kreme

27 May 2945

He moald appectate receiviag coples el the fallening

CoIaDa accessioned documata for tranenittal to the Federal. Iuran

"of Inveetigations

1494

209621

110750

133850

224578

849

2966

3011

sublest

The Sinargalate lovessent

in Madeo

Free Auntrian Lovemens 1a

Great Beltain

Report on an Intervie with

DE, Chlong sta

Botos on too Buenos Aires

protesa Ceran Palla

tlons, ete

Cabad

The Signifience of

the Posess Conspiray,

et0.

17-146

7023045

220130445

Source!

tro Harros

SECRET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Miro 3o Georgo Gately

PROM

SUBJECT:

dore Alpor c

Office

no the

Chief, CID

Attached photostat

DATE: 3 Kay 1945

Attached is a photosta: of CID document #108929 requested per

tolephone conversation on 26 April 1915.

..."

—•..

---

## Page 18

4-00009

CONFIDENTIAL

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

WASHINGTON. D.C.

MESLORANDUK TO!

FROHI

SUBJECTS

30 April 1945

J. Georgo Gatoly, Llaison Offloer, I-? Branch

Leut. Raymond Deston, USHR

Chiof, Central Inforantion DIviB10n1

RAA Documenta

In reply to your request of 26 April 1945, I would like to

give you the following Information:

Your requests for ReA documenta $2810, 4206, #760, $2965, and

#784 Iss been forwarded to Hr. Dunaway's Office of Red Branch.

These

reporte will be seat to you by Miss Hornstein in Mr. 'Dunaway's Office.

That le the distributing offico for the RiA Reporte.

Your requeste for dooumenta M-245, $ 253, and M259 has been

forded to Mr. Henry Fiold'a office. His offico l8 the distributing

office for roports of this kindo..

Jooumant 120284, RaA 60 18 not available for distribution by

your office to the FBI.

hia dooument would involte the THIRD AGENCY

ruling and therefore it cannot be transmitted to tho FBIe.

I believo, however, the above information will enable you to

receive all but 1 of your requests. If CID can be of further help to

you please oall on us.

73024

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 19

::1.

CONTOENTIAL

It. Raymond Disten

Jo George Gately, Ilatoon Offloor, I-2 Fransh::

R & A Docuncats

2ú A991I 1945

he would appressare recoiving copies of the followine

C.I.Do Bosessioned documents for trammittal to the Fedoral.

Burean of. Investigation:.

Accesasons Ho. Sonroe Nor Subjeat

Date

1187A

111276

06 The Palange Party of Spain, ote. 15/121

2810

ackground Study Some Loadin

120024

120280

119534

119573

111329

121063

* 150

RaA '60

760

2965

32928012243.

M 22

Pro-DeroGrallo Argantines, 080. 8/1/45

Interior Brasil - oto.

China: Infrastion regarding

Furring

23/7/45

Philippine Island: A Survey of

20/9/42

Her Trerea

Torard Totalltertaniam

12 Argentina

10-345

A 8123 - Japany Information

conscening the Polioe, ate:

740

Studies of Migration & Scholemente

Jewish Cornist Life &

221901

Organisation - Intia has 1oe

44253

Studios o& Migration & Bottlemant

10-145

221900

216812

1237*

295 m

228

Latin Amories

Stadin of Myration & Sottlent

hatin America

*513598 China: Date on

Konintang Flections In Jas.

2/45

Sorroes FBI

---

## Page 20

14-00009

SECRET

28 March 1945

Philippe La SCHERESCHEASKY

Saferences

itorandua Dron lr. Halperin dated 13 Harch 1945.

Our files contain no infursation concerning subject.

SECRET

---

## Page 21

1d-0d0

FLANDED POL IEA BA

Offic Memoranium • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

: Mr. do Georgo Gutely

DATE: 20 March 1945

SUBJECT: Document Number A-50471

This Is with referarse to your request of 22 February.

addressed to Lieutenant Deston,, for a.cony of the aubjuct

documant for transmittal to the state Department.

Baoause this document is one whiot we received from tbe

$I Branch ard it is against our policy to disseminate SI

documenta to oxternal agencios, i suggest you telephone

Nra. Arp, Extension 2391, for « oopy-

in SECRET

---

## Page 22

STANIAL MORAL IN El

COFPIDSNITIAL

Office Memorandm • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

: Ho do Ceorgo Cately

DATE: 10 March 1945

FROM : Lleutenant Bernard F. Dorr, US."®

SUBJECT: Request for Doouments

In ascordence with your request of 22 february, addressed

to Lloutenant. Laston, I am attaching a copy of Rdi report

No. 2705 for transmittal to the FBI. Putiro requests for REÀ

roports for transmittal to external agencios should be addressed

to Dro Hilliam Lo Langor, Chiof, Research and inalyais Branche

Document No. 108929 is a report which we received fron the

then tra

Survey of Foreign Experts and you may borrow it and similar

documonts from Hrs. Karr, Exteusion 2355, for photostating.

Doouments numbers 108977 and 109052 are Si reports and I

aiggest you telephone Urg, hrp, Extension 2391, for copies.

19

COFFIDENILAL

---

## Page 23

It. Raymond Deston Pete

J. Leorso fataly, Jalalson Officer, I-2 Branch

22 February 1945

We would appreciate receiving copies of the

following U.I.D. accessionsed documents for trans

mittal to the FBI!

44106.

1089280

1089290

108977C

1090523

fine.' no

---

## Page 24

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

It. Raymond Deston

MT. 7, GaOrge Gately, Ilaison OLf100r, I-2 Branek:

Document H0. 4-48183

22 February 1945

• copy of the above document, the subject of

whioh wag

"The Conintern®a Ccrmittee tor LIoul

ation, " vas given to the FBI at their request.

The FBI has stated that thoy huve never heard

the aubject of the document referred to by that

t1t16.

As the evaluation of the subjeet document

was Given as

"C-3", the FBI requesto that the

COD.

tents of the docuent be reviewed with a view to

obtaining a better evaluation.

JCG: nfm

Source :?BL

oral request 2-21-45

rado there begin degelines nots

CONFIDEN iNL

---

## Page 25

SECRET

Ite Haymond Doston. i

3. 000I8e Gatoly, LlElsOn OPIICOT, T-2 Brnoh

R & A Doouenta•

now am it o 15- mid tate ste

22 February 1945

He would appreciate a copy of the following C.I.D.

accessioned doounent for trananittal: to the

State Department:

4-504710

its alp."'

SECRET

---

## Page 26

SECRET

5 February 1945

N. J. GearER AntaLILLulBon Officer, X-2 Branoh

Belationship of Argoatina w1th the AsLa

The attached memorandum containing information on the

subjoot was received fron the YBI as verbally requested

by you.

Attaohment

JGG : mim

Source: Halperia, R$A

1-23-48

22-5-415

SECRET

---

## Page 27

SECREE

Reference:

MI. KaurICo A. Halperin REA

30 January 1945

red. George Catoly, Walson OffIcer,

Inforsatión on Persons In BoLdle

Menorandum Fron br. Halperin to Mr. Horave Petera dated

31 October 194

Thore is attached Infornstion received fron the I.B.I.

on the subject. A copy of their vover letter 1s also

attached for your infomation.

Attachment

Source: Halper 10-31-14

"'''

"in".

-."

We ...

SECRET

---

## Page 28

1d-0d0d

CONTIDENTIAL

Leutenant Dastor

J. Goorge Cutely

C.I•D. Documenta

16January 1945

It Is rejuested that you turniah us with a photostatio

copy of the attached document, CID No. 102614 {0r

transmittal to the Y.B.I.

Attachaent

JGO: mu

CONFIDEMIIAL

23

---

## Page 29

14-00000.4

CONFIDENTIAL

It. Farasad Beston.

So Goorge Intely.

B & A DOCURELES

8 January 1945

#.sould-appreciate.recelving a copy of the follering G.I. De

seceasioned document for transmittal to the FBI.

204605 $

Souncse TBI 1/4/45

CONFIDENTIAL

24

---

## Page 30

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Jo GOrgO Gatoly, Liaison Officar - Xac Branch DATE: 8 JanUary 19445

FROM :

Barbara Eren®

Bentral Information Dirision

SUBJECT:

CID documenta - request for

In accordance with your request of 30 Decerber 194,

addressed to Lieutenant kaynond Deston, U.S.M.R, attached.

horowith aro photostated copies of CID doouments Nose 104032

and 103681.

=a.dw...

and and a drintain diderine, Signe i:

---

## Page 31

1d-0d0d

CONNDENTAL

Ito Reynond Dostor

Ja Goorge Gately, Liaison Officer, I-2 Branou

& January 1945

Ve bould appreciate rodeiving copies of the

following Gol-De socessioned documents for

transnittal to the FBI:

102614 C

Source: FBI 12/30

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 32

Jat: Ragnond Deston

LUllahid 11,00 Deoember 1914

8• GeOrgE GAtelY, LiaisOn. OIfICOI, I-2 Branch

Its Documents.

No would eppreolate recelving copies of the

following C. I.D. accessioned documents for

transmittal to the FBI!

104032 8

103681 8

JGG/SIVI

Souroe: FBI 12/27

COMIUCHTIAL

34.3

21

---

## Page 33

CONNDENUIAL

Ito Raymond Doston.

Doe. 26, 1546

A & A Dauzante

To would approciate scolving copies of

the folloing C-I D

accorsionad doctots for tragenittal to

the TBIS

105155 2

103823 3

GATELYI SUN OUS

Soarce:

VEL 22/12/00

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 34

JUNIORIAL

Lto Riahar Eastahorse

3. 060550 941015: I$6is0a OfFices, I-& Breast

He sould apprentato recolving. & copy of the following 1& A Boo.

nont for tranmittal to tho FBI Ang tiela rotention:

B & A 8830

GAILY SIL 23

551/10/18/48

29

---

## Page 35

14-00000

Mr. W. Borab, Eld

I, Georgo Gately

OrEaniZAtIOnS I MeXIcO

Le Decenber 1944

The attached menorandur fron the FBI oon-

talas additlosal Informstion on Orzaniza

tions In Mexico, which you roquested on

31 July 1941.

Attachment

Source: FBI 12/11

CORDIUCINDIAL

3

---

## Page 36

14-00000

CONFIDENT'

Mr. B. A. Kracke, dro, Rich

J. George Gately

Requösted Conference With FBI Representatives

Concerning Ispanese Polloe Systcas

18 December 1944

The FBI has advised us that it would not be

worthwhile to have the conference which you

proposed que to the tact that they save no

Information concerning dapanese polloe or

espionage systeme.

IGG/mvm'

Source: FBI orally 12/16

CONTIDENTIAL

31

---

## Page 37

Keference:

- 7-37

32

Mr. Ho BorGi, RoA

Jo George Gately

SELRET

astra ma

•Tour oral request of 5 December 1944

The attached nemorandun from the

FBI contains Infornation on subject.

Attaoment

Source: FBI 12/16

Missing dedica at in two

SECRET

18 December 1944

?id:

---

## Page 38

SECREf

MI. Maurice Halgerin

8. George Gatoly

Hez Instionaries In Argentina

24 November 154k

The atteched memorandur fror. the FBI contudas

edditlonel Infortion on the Nuzi Tunctiou

OTIEB In A geNtICE MENtIODEd Iu YOUr EGSOrEN-

dur to tuls office cateá october 30.

Attachnent

c0:

I-a

Source: FbI. 11/23

SECRET

---

## Page 39

SECRET

FLIGHT OF AXIS PERSONALE TO ANGRIZIA

Argentino", Lonterideo,

Uruguay,

on Septenber

that nunerous hezd officials vere presentig aiding 1n

Argentina under assuned identities.

Along the individuals

GeneraL ahas steugenEon, one bI. EricK, carlaelaz Von Dufals

and Gottfried Sandstede.

One of the allegations in this article vus to the effect that

Major General dans Steudemann was stopping at tae "dotel Adun",

Calle Malaü 1288, Buenos Aires.

Argentine documents in the nage of Pedro Cassions. Investiga

tion at the "dotel Adun" nas failed to uncover any record of

any individuel named ians Steudenano or Pedro Cassuenn.

record of the issuance of documents in the neme or Pedro

Cessmann bes been located.

One Dio Friek, an

engineer,

director of the steol works at

Bochui,

Gersany,

was alleged to ba living at the "Gernan Rid-

1ng Club", Calle loneverria, belgrano, buenos Aires, and WEs

said to visit the German Embassy.

was also claired taut

1o was the bearer of a richtenstein passport in the name of

FOUETO BERED.

Investigation at the

"Gerzan Hidine Club" indi.

cetes that Dr. Frick does not reside tiere at the present time:

•The German Embassy in buenos Aires has been closed since the

severance of relations between toe Argentine and German §oVerI

ments in January 1944 and the Imbassy is guarded trenty-four

hours por dsy by toe Buenos Alres Police Departreat.

No record

of the passport or oter documents in the name of eduard Reden

has been encountered.

Inquiries in German circles in Buenos ires have developed no

Inforation.regarding any.of the individuals;alleged by this

article to be seeking refuge in Argentina.

Information as to the original source of this article has not

been developed.

It is believed that the story was originated

hy the Cormunist Party In Argentina.

It was reprinted in five

olandestine Comunist Party newspapers in Uruguay and Argentina.

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SECRET

MI. MaurICO Malperin

do COOrdE Gately

Gottiried SADSIrDe vito allocoa

Gottfriod SARSTOdO, GOdOrEOGO SandEtude

22 Moverber 1901

The atteshed menorandun fror the FBI containo

Infornation on subjeot,

who was one of the

Kard funcilonrica 1n Argentine montlored In

your monorandun to thie ortics duted October 30.

Intomatlon on the other hazi functiorarios

moutioned 1a your senorunaun wadd bo torerdod

DO YOU AS DOOR NO LOCOLVOR TION CHO. IBL

Attaokment

008 ID, Att: blas flussor

018 """..

Source: FBI 11/17

SECRET

35.

rigators,

---

## Page 41

1d-0n0d

SECRET

dovember 17, 1944

278

Gottiried Sanstede,

Godorredo Sandatede

Guttfrled Sardstede was born In Oldcnbure, Corranie

on January 251

190%e do was tho son of Georg strautece and wus carried to TrIçda

Ircadosa

Sandatede wes the subject of nucerous reporta enuneting fron south

Americe In 1958, 1940, and 1941, due to the Luct that ho wes very

activo In Cormen prOgesinde vori, Mo biS ELSO a Coron esplurige agent.

Warholm yon set61htz e confossed Geran eyent who 19 presently la

the

oustody of risentine euthoriclos, edrised tuit de met seriscedo

Eandstode bac ep-

In berllo, Gorany during tue laat part of 1450 von Seidlitz trev-

parently dived in Argentina prior to tids time.

eled fros Boriin to buenos dires seco.

Areentaaa, wel sanastede arrivo

Sardatede was nead of this agency in ircerini.

They were ussocleted

together in the offices of the "Certral auropean iravel Ageroy"

which me a subsidiary of the berran kullweys at Calle Florids 159,

Buenos Alres, Arcontina.

In 1939 Sandatede una onllod to Gerrany, apparently by tuo Geran

Govcimmente

Von Soidlitz statod tuet he returned to Argentina on

August 25,

or august 20, 1928, mes tue title oi Press and Propi

gunde Attaone of the Goraun Labassy, Buenos Miros, ircontile.

With the outbzeux of war betweon Grost Erie-lu and Gormany Is Sopteu-

1929, Von Soldiata deterined to rotura to burope. On tz18 00-

requested Salástede to assist ile in obicining yussige,

but sandstade advised hin thut 1t wis his duty to rosain in Arcentine,

since he could be of more vulue to ceruiry in tuat country by func

toning as an espionage agent then by enrolling in the Corron Arry.

Sondatede advlaed hin thet he,

106 as a Cernen agont for sono tine. le was dotive 1a obtalnius

shipping Infornation fron Argontino nurbors for formraing to cercany

throuch tho cernan alploiatlo youod and by coans o1 the Latl Arlino.

nioratton.

"the subject.

Another Individual who was reported to have worked as a Gernen agent

mata sanastede was delle Lange, a know terman agent whois presently

bollered to be In biding In Argentina.

mange nas cooperating wita

Sandstede In this regard as early as ivy, 1940.

One Hahn, an eplojee of the Dedei.

(Ger-so news Agenoy) Buenos Aires,

was reported to have worked under Sandetece in obtaining general 1n-

tendaronoe Inforation in Argentino in tre Last part of 1940. Tho

SECRET

120:623

---

## Page 42

SECREA

extent of inhn's activities in this regard his not been cicarly de-

Iined.

In order to contiot agents workine vita his, Sundstedo rettinei an

office at the

"Central European Travel hgency" end do received a

salary 01 33,250.00 mouthly there in additior to hia selory to an

Attecho of the Gerian Diesy

There 15 sone Indicatlon tut tig

payuenta sade to bundutede ut the oiiico di to "Centrel curopeun

Travel Agonoy" wore payonus for dotillation to projaganas and e

Dionage cents.

in addition to nia notalios is an esplonage egent, the subject mee

ative an arecting Gerian propegina In Colonia, Ler, Bracil

2nd

Argentina.

Juring tho dict pure oi 1940, sendstede ciso maintaized

contuot with litlian diplodo ortleuls in argentle for properanda

purpOses.

WIth JanE, 1940, Sandstedo LeLa a ESCtInE La DUenOS Aired, Argentina,

dennia von Kossed, & Ceran alploatic ofitched fro: Flo

de ianeiro, corterninó tie meusures su de acopted by tao Gester

Govorament in case the United States entered the wir.

It wEs agreed

at that time tini a press cuapulin vould be undertaken In brazil re

garding the bud

treatment accorded

to recross by tae

Caitod Strice

through tho

"Transocean hors agorog" and local Brazilien agencies.

It wua bellered but this lino di propigondo could axpout to

ouu brazilians its colored biGod.

heso dang were accepted 1u

BrazIL and arroneements "eIo bade to curry due tho do typo oi

propazunda in ¿eru, hoxico, bolivle end otuer countrios vita a isize

Indias population.

In addition,

Senestede agrood to rointorod tne Gorman and Italian

Influonoe In tuo Longaborenent Union in Argentiga.

On april 4s 194à, a number of prominent dazla 1u Argentina are re

ported to have bold a necting

at the deruuu athletie club, Calle

Cuba, 2410g

Buenos aircs, Arcontina®

who was nead of one Nazd

On April 25, 1941, prominent inzis fro: all parts 'of Colombia nold a

meeting 1n the upper floors of the "Aliacen delda"

• Menirales, Colouble.

Sandstede was in charge of this seeting and Is reported to nave ar

rived 1n Colo-ble, using an assued ide

and false pussport. The aub.

Jects under discussion at tile meeting ure not know.

During the riddle of 1941 a roport was receirod to tile effeot tuat one

Werner Loever.

Cello Pampe 3789, Buenos dires, Argentina, Was a Ger

man agent norking under Stacitedo.

Isoler was doscribed as a chesist

for the German fira "Thysses janetal Corpaay"

Calle Faseo Colon 542,

Buenos Aires, Agentina®

The nature of the dutles perfored by this

Individual La not know.

Membership lists of the Jasolet organization rAfimacion irgentina",

Buonos Aires, refleot that Sandstede was one of the lesdere in that

organization.

SECRET

---

## Page 43

14-00000

• 3=

SEC CT

On August 19, 1941, the special comittoo of tae Chaaber of Deputies

Of AIGOLELIE

ordered the subject to exceur bofora tact body for.

questIonns concert da activite

Bradstede clalied tact ne

ned extrs corritoriod ricats us a result of nia position as Press

and Propegenda sitione of tno Gerian onesy, cod de refused to a

The Investigati coulttee taoz took

tao vlew tait Inusuch

Tas st1l1 necd of the

"Contru, juroyean Travel Aguney, trut

On August 2ô, 1944, Sundatede duparter, Iron Argentine by Condor

questlorin.

September 4, load, he leit tribal for curope by bati glene.

Prior to kis coperturo fror, hrgentinu, mundoteds instructed milkeln.

ron selchltz to tike chcre, on oe sins Inportine sorvice which ie

Bud boon ocratia®

Von seldlitz ubrocu lo du so, und strastude

paid hi= 12,000 Ascentine peso: (#3, 000.00 as

en advence for unpos

ditures.

Sendstedo also fursished Von Soldiliz the following ball drop to be

USed fOT GANIOnUEE COMMUnICATIONA: JENniUE Urther, VILiOLEStriBSe 102,

Berlin, Gergany,

Ixformation reoently developed 1a Arientina 1s to eno esteot tuct

during Soptenber,

1o42, Sonastedo was trioling for the Gernon lovern-

sEnt in Spaln ana Portugal.

The nature of the work being poriored

by bin tiEce was not disclosed.

DurinE August, 1843, oue BudoLfo Ada: 00 was arrestoc by hrgentine

authoritles wollo oporatli an uncuthorised radio trunsultter in

the vicanty of buenos Adrei.

Mandeo 1s reported to have been an

assoolnto of Sandstode when sno subjoct was In Argentine.

APper-

ostly, tala stution wis simply an unoutcorized tatour station and

clandestine racio trensultter....

hooordlag to accounts publisacd in the Cemen Lazguice senspaper

regicent in the Gerian hImy Ou

the lucters Front. ine excot date

of ala death wis not alsolosed.

It has been surgested by various sources tust tue report of sani-

te tire

stedela death night possibly be part of a sonent to enable him to

: ÷.

return to Argontine under un assuned tine.

No Inforcation 18 avall-

able to show trut Sanastodo 18 not 1n ¿act doad.

The description of the subjoot la es follows:

Weight

Bulld

209

Heavy

SECRET

---

## Page 44

• CONFIDENTIAL

mannie the beata it..

Bi. Iserse Tent

Foas 1 Dena, It- 6d-5.) ESH

Organseation Chast el Heran Foreign 0172es

Forember. 14g: 1064--

Atricted is as ergasisetion chart of the dorman

Feroles offter.

The satorial 88 propared Ison cortain Pop Jeered

marial which has baan contiruca Iron other sources. A copy is

Dolag sont to 8. I. Tra u11l soto that di hao boen deto tacis to

Juls 10s, eves thor 1arnad today. To July patsel 1o, of evures,

rosponsible for thie.

Hosover, since It d0 planed to Sema anther essay

Is the not too distal fatare, the Hl.B. representatitoe have

sadlestos that any cotticlene, addlilans, or chansse sill le

morelated. 18 you here ay euggentions, wild you kindly former

shem to the uriter no soon on possible.

ring..

iwudastlie4.:.

man, it min

mnn/ craig

41924

CONFIDENTIAL

W

2 ії.

3

6

---

## Page 45

1d-0000

It. Richard Hürtsborne

I1 Noverber 1944

RE À DOCUMOLES

• 1:

I would very muca appreciate receivlue coplea...

of the following A & A documenta for tient

mittal to the iBI for their retention:

20Kk

R & A 2023

CONTIDENTIAL

425

ang airiidei"

HWP /EVI

Source: Marron 11/8

37

---

## Page 46

CORAIDENTIAL

Bro Maurice Halperin

• Go Cutel

• adanson Offic

Jorgo Garreton. WiNETUX

Il lovenber 1944

Pursuant to your oral request of Ootober 14

to MI. Horace l. Retors, the Inforuation on

subjeot contained in the attached menorendun

was furnished to us by the fal.

" it, is

Attachment

IGG/mVm

Source: FBI 11/3

Wach-X-2-AB-12

618(38)

Brt!

CONFIDENTIAL

3в.

---

## Page 47

CO. DEsecrapos 3, 2826

DEPARTELS 50

CHILLL DIVISION OF INViORiGAEIUS

JOIgO Garreton Garreton, forer Director Genoral

of the Division of Investigeblons at sentiago,

Cailo,

was raplaced by Colonel Laberce when

Gerreton

case to the Unitod Sautes for a risit

during July,

19448

While Garreton hes returned

to Chile, te has

not yot assuned the director

salp of the Division of Investigations, and 1t

tas been reliably reported tust he dopertod on

Octobe= 20, 1944, for a six weeksd tour through

out Latin

micrican is the perzoned representetito

of Prosidont Rios.

It hes been suld tant Carreton

n1ll return as Direotor of the Divisior of InvestI

gatlons upo: tho completion of thla tripo

Department 50 of the Division of Investigations bas

been headed by Hernan Barros Elancht-boin under

Garroton and dabaros.

There has been no indioe-

tion that bartoo will do recored fro= tale position.

COPY

---

## Page 48

1020

OFFICE

OF STRAiGGIE

SERVICES

INTEROFFICE MEMO

LI. Horace Peters, X2

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Infornation on Fursena In Bolivia

DATE: 31 Ceraber 1944

I would appreciate your obtaining whatevor information jou

can concerning the rollowing persons in Bolivia,

1.

Unfor Jorge Equine, Director seneral of the National

Folice.

2. Captain Josó Escolar, Chief of Polico Of la Par.

3.

Lajor Fumberto Costas (or Costal, Chief of she President's

Military Household.

Major saterde Pence, 'inister of Public Tores.

5.

Lajor Sdaundo Nogales, Minisser of Agriculture.

Mias:or 195. Luise Leschritz de Ernst, possible: Bolirian

or Argentinian agent; reportedly go-between in alleged

payment of Mauricio Bochschild's ransom to Argentino

loaders, posribly to Argontine Foreign Minister Orlando

Poluffer

Is anything known atout any connections of any of these persons

"' Lo The "ilitary Lodge?

2.. The "'farshal Santa Crus Lodge"?

3.

The nilitary lodge, "Ingeri"?

Is anything known about these orgesizations and thel, mutual

relatiorships?

SBOT

15 06

39

---

## Page 49

14-00000

10

OFFIÇE OF

STRATEGIC

SERVICES

INTEROFFICE MEMO

FROM:

Vro Forace Peters, X2

REP

Wr laursco Falparin hett.

SUBJECT: Nari Fusctionaries In Argontina.

SOC237

DATE: 30 October 1944

An Arzentine opposition publication of 25 Septanter claims

that the following liazi functloceries are curreatly in Argentina

under assued identitios:

Te would appreciate any incoraation

-you may here on the icartitles and activities of those persons.

in Germany and anythire you might. inon sbout their departure

from there...

Colonel Welter OSTYPIlS, "ex-comanier of fishter-

pleno schcol in Verneuchen, Germeny." low uses false Identity

as Theodor SCHINDE (or SCHINDE le born in coronel Suarer,

Argentina.

2.

Wejor Genera: jonE STELaLl 0" the Luftwaffa Chiefs

of Staff...lus false documents:ar Pedro CASSATil bors- 10 Diamante

Eatre Ríos Frovince, Argentina.

3.

ITe FRICK, engineor and director of ateel factory in

Bochu,

Germany.

Has Lichtarstoin passport in nane. of Eduard

Fartheing von

DETAIS, "SS. Stardertendfuehrer" and radio

telegraph export.

5. Costirled SAIDSTEDE, former press attache of tre German

Embassy In Buonos Aires, now reported back in Argentine,

Deutache Le Pluta Zeisun reported he had been killed on Rissien

Front on 7eldip 27,1574

SECROT

40

42050909012

---

## Page 50

Mi. Richard Hartcharno..

Horeco W. Potere

3 & A Docuzenta

26 Ootober 1844

DORANAL

The following In a list of. R & A documents

which would bo of intercut to

the federal

Bureau of Investigation.

I would appreciate

1t very much is you would let me have cople

of tuese documents for transmittal to tuat

agency.

R.

• 1590

1550

2050 %

Bacid "'

1955

2424

EWP/mvm

Source:

Harron 9/16

Marron 9/23

COXAIDEN

---

## Page 51

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM &

SUBJECT:

Mr • Poters

Contra) Inform so deso

A

DATE: 17 October 1944

This material la to be formarded to the FBI.

the re"

---

## Page 52

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO Mr: Bernard A- Iowell

DATE: 6 Oct. 19:4

PROM : Jargaret i Stawart s

Via:

1

Lto George P. Young,

Chief, Biogremical Records Co

SUBJECT:

- Laterial requestes In your seaurenda of 25 Sepbenter 1314

In accordance with our telephone conversation the

other day, se here (or are) sending the naterial

fros our files to the farli Trade Intelligence

Division of the State Department.

Atiached are yaur lists which you asked that e

return to you.

set ever sopriate e bite,

eddie in dotin, mai

---

## Page 53

14-00000

SONATIN!

Ist, Resmond Bartol

lorace W. Potata

R& A roourents

October 3, 1944

The FBI would approciato recaiving coples of the fol owing

C•I.D, accessioned documents:

REcil 1%,

90759

92100-

92037: C

92003 C

90758 R

R8A -1590

R$ A.

1550.

"11

Beci

10/e

cats

R+A-

1955- Reed fates

peters/shrione

Bourde:

karron orally, 9/23

1 in.

---

## Page 54

1d-0d0d

CONFIDENTIAI

ITA

Io Cherusa Lont

Sone: 1. Dan, Itu (1-60) 0911

Orarchip of Stendo y Clo, 8.A.0. el Argentina

Septenber 26, 1846

Attachel la the neurandun fran Jebn 1. Fossil

of tho Dorld Frado Intelilzenco Diviston of sbo Stato....

lepartnont, shich I Alscussed vith your secrolary recastly.

dans/cralz

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 55

Mout. George Icing

Bernard A. Focali

Biograghical data

Septasber 73, 1944

Thora are enclosed herenith lista of the seabers of the cabinets

al tires European countrios • Buigaria, France and

sortugal.

It mould be appreciated. you rcald, prepare for. this: branch a i:

bioraphical report on the individuals listed In the enclosures.

Please riurn theas original lists at the tize of forwarding your

raporto.

TOLE LAHOLILYD

SOURCUs MenD frOE Dopt. of

stato frau Fredo igon dated 9/22/bds

i fili lie deferee

cups as petin

Research * relapis

pita

та прога dc.

ite prepa

repenta.

---

## Page 56

14-00000

Ileut. George Young

Bernard A. Toveil

2067

RE!!

Septerber 23, 1944

There 1s enclosed herenith liat of lour Individuals located in

Spain, Turkey, lidly and France.

It rould be appreciated 1f you vould prejare for this branch a

biographieal refort on the individuals sistod in the enclosure.

ilth regard to iouls DOLIVET, 1t nould be appreciated 1f special

osphasia vere put on his activities in lexico.

Wit!

TOPELL HOLLAND

Lero froz Erodi, Ayer 8/21/4k

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SONNETIA!

Ito Raynond 2040h

Morsce W. Peters

R A A dooumenta

Sapt. 19, 1944

The FBI would appreciate receiving a ooff of the following

C.I.D, ao0sealoned doourent:

17520

876405-889-23886

gin the bay

Bourses Harrou, 9/16

Doters/almmone

grate 126

Pred 1el1

Ra A.Ne

hale 6.

06A.17525

NOWL

---

## Page 58

7".

in seat,

Mr. Rechara Haresto REAl

Tor 3ra Petera

Fold votes On The Japanese In Latin Asurica

September 10, 1944

Fith the approral of tri murice Haiporin, 'I have -lent to

the DoS. Uflico of Censorship and the 7.9.I. for a srurt periul

of time the folloting docusent:

Rich 30. 1910

"Field Notes On The Japanese In Latir

Anories", dated March 26, 1943, copy lio. 2.

cc. lalperin

CONfusins

• А і мі

'""""

••-1-e.

.. ...

...*

---

## Page 59

CONPE MTIAL

Sto sayond Dester REFA

Horace W. Peters

R & A Docuents

Sept. 14, 1944

The Federal Buroau of Invostigation would appreciate ro

colving a copy of the following C.I.D. nocessioned docto

Bonts:

89770 C

=Rse28/0/18

39643 6

89235 R

- Reel 1/18

89420 C

88929

C

de

88931

89766

C

Souren? Karron nectice, 9/13

potera/aimzons

aliassio

CONFIDENTIAL

50%

---

## Page 60

4-00009

SECRET

Septanbar % 1806

BUS BOT

Seas fandall

opinion in minate

Pind A

1. лі

As los raquost es Coutala Habere Barnea of ous

Bou lort Office es are fraultting lo you the follerly

motored er the Engarla Folenhone Syabce:

do

Sebano of Cable Countessoas

Saham of tranks to Ilotriot offlees

Inforcation ebanirad fron Notherlenko Bset

Iraton latorst, Sauluisg lous protographe®

Thenna &.

Bast

Ideatonant (d-8o) va

Sol Brise

dean/erala

cret tid electe

SECRET

5L.

Kim,

---

## Page 61

14-00000

RESTRICTED

Dre the lo Laker.

Borand do Towell

Cophos of restrictas despalshaa sos. 718 € 736

rugsat 36, 19446

•The 3tate Departzent has givon za copies of the abore desputebes

forsarded fran sin Sabhoax at lioscon, sli& o reguest tist

these despatches and enclosina be ionarden to you.

WE11.t0r41e)

%.UkC:1 36080 dofte E/29

"ait."

ide booigg

1.n. 25e

: RESTRICTEO

3153

---

## Page 62

- CONFOUNTAL

It. Rayaond Deston

Horace F. Potors

R & A Documents

August 22, 194

The FBI would appreciate reoelring a copy of the following

C.I.Do accosaloned documents:

82709 3

79090 3

Source:

F*P/cats

CONFIDENTIAL A

TWO THE

---

## Page 63

August 14, 1944

An oral request vas made to ki. Deston for the following doe

uments:

79803

172200

3

72428

S

72394

S

723513

61399

61351.€

** *

5

---

## Page 64

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAJ

Il. Raymond Deston

no moral tara rascar

Horsee He Potera

I do Documento

August 11, 1934

The FBI Hould appreciate receiving a copy of-the following C.I.D:

accesaioned documents

75286 R

FIPER: HOLLAND

920050s Karon cocting €/11

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 65

Ito Faymond bouton

August 6, 1844

The fBI would aprociate reCeITiNE a COpy Of tie POllO

Ing CoI•Do accessionad docurerts:

68099 $

07230 C

01060 C

61047

61332

Mind Tires

CONFIDENTIAL

2: 697468

58

---

## Page 66

CONPIDEYTIAL

OFFICE OF STRATEGIE SERVICES

INTEROFFICE MEMO

TO:

FROM:

Mr. E. M. Peters

F. Borah, Latin Averican

Division

Warah

SUBJECT: Information fron the FBI

DATE: 31 July 1944

Enclosed are two lists, one of organications, the other

of individuals.

Te should appreciate having the FBI search it

files and forward to us as quickly as possible any inforzation it

may have on then.

CONFIDENT

5.97

p:.a

---

## Page 67

a RESTRICTED

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

WASHINGTON. D. C.

(23)

28 duly 1944

Foroign Funds Control

Treasury Separtient

washington, d. C.

attention:

Ir. O. do Schmidt, Director

lit. Donald Kohl

Ir. derone Sachs

Gentlenen:

I am transaltting horowith three copies or 2 & 1

No, 2320, "Italian Insurancs", prepared in the Office of

Strategic servicos aral classified as restricted.

Sincerely yours

Helen Longin

Analysis & jach

Enclosuros (3)

• (Copy los.

2,3,4) .

'ten," "u"

RESTRICTED

60

@aha

---

## Page 68

SECRET

Hoodron se Doras

Fordos to T0t6rs

Juds 10, 1946

vaunts ve

Gorilor

Jupplazoniac our Go to jou of July 79: 01 the ab0ve

sublects,

uno ioilonius da incoration on Valerin Certias.

w:lo: vas taco: fros a roport detea 1043 15 350

101.

of tho

P. 0a3

and 1a a

patrolers escineer,

hortre. Traduated

fa aren-

100e apoloertne Cron Craford 171007 1905 900 1015 20

Carties 10.706 as

1016,

so profoisor of rosaleun ordinooring a jiantord

LIoS 1915 to 1015.

Carlos is now diroctor s& the CILias 30x-

vice

80 iiall

16o8

Fat

fork Citye

Re also holds the follow.

Lug poaltlone:

Choe Prosident and siroctor o1 the Gule Coast Corpe

Vico Prosilent and

lacctor of 1io lorican taster

virodtor so tha lenicar toxas Fetrolaso

and Aspali Co, Blictor of the a load alleys

or noalco,

Fioo

Fredl. " and lector or cabino

Gordo Petroleun Corpag

Freeldogy and irector of

the southan fuel and socinine co..

lice reclecat

aid ilroctor ot farrico, Teas iatroicue Cosy.

Carrias 1a a nober of bie fod onlaj associationag

herican solos, of civil cacincors, "erlean Sooloty

of Mectanical

dualasers, inerloan instituto of vining

7...

nd coteorolozlond -incoring

¿serican ABnodletion

I Petrole: le0lor15t and vocduty o1 Leononie 3e01

offat.

Valentin 3. Carflas 1s the author of a trentico entitled,

"Potroleum nesourcos of to norld" and has mitten napers

and reporte on the geolor and tectrolor of potroleu

IT.P/eat8

SECRET

---

## Page 69

14-00000

13.

=.?

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

WASHINGTON. D.C.

I July 1944

HEBIORAFDOM TO Ure Forace Peters

In roply to your memorandun of June 22ad, we are for

warding copies of documents nos. 74762 and 73021 for the

F. B. I.

Fo are not in a position to supply a copy el

7334} because this originates in the Joint Intelligerce

Collection Agonoy - China, Burse, India.

I suggest you contact It. Col. Riddell for a copy

of this

R. leo ton

RiA

Chief, Central Intornation Diviaton

---

## Page 70

ta-itetded

. SECRET

150, Boran Fill.

Toraco "a Betech

ALLLO FORTIAALILO COEYI ETA

intonlo

Yadontld ise

July %, 1044

i :

Regarâinr, gour roquent for Inioration on Anto:lo

Santa CrUZy

the ill

edvioos

thoy do noi rave a

reoord of

tio ludividiale

The burosu adrises they aro stlll cheoking for lifor-

matdon on Valentan do sarilao.

Conoemnlag Inillo Corvi acd lio aon of 1107.i00 C1ty.

tho solloring 1o a soport iron tno ibl sa those individ

ueda!

"The bureau has a joeord of an 1a1llo 3. Corvl who

mas boad of tho Uinarquiata novenent 1n 191100, and was

reaponalulo for publication of a jinaiquista narphiote

Bicos at Orzluba 8l,

gaet te ore an roslace a 01 10 1b29e

12x1s0 UItJo

"Tho 11doo of tho Buroau reveal that Eilio Coml

(oaralalo fascor or folaia da ferti above.

• Is вррхо-

masoly 72 Joara old.

te bas been coon attendinn a xeet

ing oi the

"Casa de Espana"

a soolety chose nonbers ara

knomn to be pro-iraroo.... Imla soolotr propagandlzed for

tte:Spanl8h

ontered

the

vatayro and aiabarded ahortay artor the Uoso

SOUAGE!

HP/cata

Herrou toloptore conversablor 7/5 87/7

istui, isi.

SECRET

---

## Page 71

1d-0n0d

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

WASHINGTON. D. C.

29 June 19ll

MELOPANDUY TO:

Nr. Forace Petors

FROM:

Loutenart Hasmond Dester ESTR ADD

SUBJECT:

Request for docunerts for F.B.I.

in answer to your nemoranden of 22 June, 1 ar

transnitting herewith docurents NOS. 75252 and 75061

which are to be formarded to the F.E. I.

waitren s.

---

## Page 72

14-00009

"V.

L6o- Rajrnd Destos.

Fora0o lie Potusa

B & A Documenta

, June 2a, 1941

LUANDENTAL

OODy 01

Tho Mii Would agrociate

followins i & A doovionta:

Aostagion 1'0. 73061

10 e

74762

AccosBion 1o. 75021

the

C

>

F.B.

¼8.

sounds: l'arron oralls, 0/21/46

INP/cata

•CONFIDENTAL

---

## Page 73

CONNIDENTAL

Ito Raynond Deston

Horaoe i, Peters

R& A DOCUSenta

June 21, 1944

The iDI vould appreciate recoiving a copy of the

following I & A doousents:

ACCeSSiOr

. 10 .

75252 C

50.

75092 3

F.B

6/29.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 74

342

CIFIDENEIAL

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

WASHINGTON, D. Co

MEGADI!

4 December 1244

T0%

PROX!

VIA:

SUBJECT g

Miro do Georce Gatoly

Liaison Officer

GAF

E. Ao Kracko, Jro

i the Harther

Request for Interview with FBI for

Cpl. Edward J. Donlon

Corporal Edward J. Donlon, of the Japen

Section, would Ilke in connection with his work on a

CAD Guido, ReA 72361, to contaot the persons in 331

mit interestod to discuss the following subjocts:

lo To determine if there la any infornation

availablo in tho fBI ro the Japenese Civil

Police Syston, Its organization and ad

ministration.

2.

To disousa the probiens of polico administration

In general, without spoolal reference to Japan.

It would be appreciated if the proper llaison

could be establishede

803

CONFIDENTIAL

33

---

## Page 75

Ho Borah

Horace F. Peters

Orzanizatione in Hoxico

Individuals Residing In Mexioo

August 19, 1941

Attachod 18 a report fron the FBI containing. Informa

ton on organizationa in Lexico und Individuals residing 1.

Honi00, which 18 in response to your reguest of July 3lat.

ErP/ 81/cats

Pilo copy routed to flugkor

SECRE

and dicine is

dependingstoneti

Wack -x-2-98-12

From fallen tho

55.10

3: 357

---

## Page 76

14-00000

Asquat 12, 1204

ACCICH RIYCLICIOIARIA LEXICATISTA. (CANISE DORICS)

This jarty tas boen ino by the folloring umes citer tian tho

Los Dorados,

Gold Shirts and From Shirtse

Tils organisation vas

first founded In 113h- 1735, and vie hoadod by Cenari licoles ddriver.

As the old wold silrt orzancatlu, it wan a sur nily natioralitic Erup

and was livolved in to Codillo rorclte

Tlils Farty ulton clashed vith

organlzod Inbir and in tho jour 1935 thoro voro two amed sosaults at tho

offices of the Camniut Partyo lo:ut tan persons died as a result of tris

conflict.

¿ho folloring year, abut tho riddlo s& 1936, Precident Carcanas

ordered finle Party to bo dissolvod end fras toreon, then 14 did function, 1t

did so as an 1120gal uscret partyo. Colonel Anicoto Loses 13 nor associatod

math tho orcanisation.

It has been used

as a vailolo of an:tonitle propa

ganda and lu said to have fasciat syapathies.

FAIGLANDEA HACIONALIERA

Mis orcanization advocatos coutrality for lexico. This theals,

honover, is not gonuine, as 1t has been advances as puroly Garan propazanda.

The organtser of tie Party 18 Adoll Loon issorio tho was on tho pay roll of

tho vorcan dogation no a propagands agento

It elso has an apnarent anti-erlah

policy and seake to prejudice the laxleans againat the Influence of the United

States, It 1e In close contact with the Partluo do Accion actual, reprosent

1rg 14 as a shock or action forco.

istler has boon upenly praised by officials

of the Vançuardia Nacionallate for lis so-called great accomplisments in turope.

FARTIDO DE. ACCION NACIONAL

Varuel Jones Horin le Iresident of Wis Fartye This Party 18 con

posa: chiofly of tho profossional ns businous cirients of lexico and la sald

to often rumiab the intollectual lorderchip for the Sirarquists groupe It

has voon known In the post to to allayedly antitis, anti-ounist, and

opposed to faerican influence in l'exican affalrso

l'orover, it hns also been

known to ranifest certain synpatiles in the dircotion of fascisme

The crgar

1zation Elves considarable study to rural dovolo mints, social probles, and

genoral quostions of econoie and political policos affoctire tie Vexican

nation.

++++++++

Iros the infor ation fumished, 1t has not been possiblo to establish

the identity of the following organisationgs

Confederacion do la Clase ledia

Centro Patronal del Distric Foderal

Centro Patroral de la Corarca Lagunera

Partido Soclal, Devocrata L'exicano

Asociacion Lapanola Anticocurista y AntiJudla

Juventudes lacionalistas iexicanas

Union (Confederation?) Nacional de Voteranos de la Pevolucion

Union Racional l'exicana de lucatan

Partido lecional Civiliste

Conito Pro-iasa

l'oviniento Unificador Facionalista

---

## Page 77

SARTA ALCAROS

A karta AL'aro (Do kata! 1s liated as a Conciet and holds the position

of Assiotant Socreter of tho Cozurlut Aprolutioar, Inion. Thie sorson 1e also

~ CARVEY CALDROE

The above porson la essociatod mith the Pritido Anti-coacotlonista

Inie Indiriónl lu as elderly tonas prysician and has beer sotive

In difforent racolat troupe.

I ANTONIO F. ESCOBARE

The abovo Antonlo l'. Escobar was a nenber of the "Los Dorados"

organization in hexico Cltjo

Re la roputod to have boar one of the organisors

of "Los Dorados" and Indiontions are t'at his sentlerts are pro-fascist. he

Aloo 18 sensolatod with tha "'alon Naclone lat iericara."

~ GUSTAVO SAANZ DE SICILI.!

This poroon le sald to ravo bees the leador of the lexican Fasolat

Party which ho started to organize 1n November 1942 in Jalope, Veracrus, Haalco.

At one tino this orga-ization ras roported to hove had four hundred tuanty braohes.

In profoasional life this indirl :al ma an ongineor.

The above person la reportedly ausociated with the lexios City

periodioal,

paper.

The Bagagine,

li Moal00, and ita publication man sunjusdod.

ONERAL MICOLAS RODRIGUEZE:

This porson was one of the foundors of the old "Los Dorados"

organieation (also know as the

"sold Shirts") which ms subsoquently. outlawed

by the dexlenn Governent and never logally reinstated. Its ol-spring ve the

"hocion Revoliosoris ioxloaniata."

The teneral mas vory anti-orish and

his orcaníction ma sod to dissisuinto anti smitio liternturo. ine Gonoral

was alao involvod in t: Codillo Cevolution and is roportod to coma diroctly

under serzan influence teneral lodrigues died in 1u4). betel. Cook of

Laredo, Iotao, le said to have been assoolated ulth General Lioolas Rodrigues.

PRANCISCO CATON Y COSA.

....

-?:

Pranciso Cajon y CoB la reportod to be a close friend of Ibanes Serranor...

a high ranking confidant of Genoral Frazoo of Spain and a mamber of the Falange

of the

"Liga do Hispanidad Ibero Aaerloana." Thle ironisation lo to be found 1a

all Central Anorican countrles.

It la pur orted to he a civio and cultural

organisation for the purpose of defendiaz lerion liszanic culture and the

promotion or the unios of Spania) merloan people. This organisation is 'inancially.

14409

---

## Page 78

1d-0n0d

supported by Pianos Serreno and coisas under ta, influesco of falar let 1dooley.

Talo poraca de likariso INos 1: the rropagarin icnico o!' tho opaalsh falargo.

QUATNO VEZEARRA CAMPOSE.

Tais porson my bo identical rita a Cabino Fircarro tho 18 an associate

of serno agento ená e rouponaibla offioial la veneral Alzasas'o esmalga escanization....

DEG. H. CIESASCOS

'a porosa say he ld ntical with Eenoreto Carrasco mas tua la chargo.'!

of. finanotug and pujáng of all propagauda oporatime for tho karl emmmiet.

espionago setup in lexico during 1041 prior to tho Corzan-assolan Faro

mulo parsor 18 reportod to lavo boes a: organizor of Mozican-lasi

notivitios and a londer of the inzican-Fosolet rurty mich ma diasolved by

the Cardezas Covorauento A Loon Casorio, Fingra S, Hoxico City, may be 1dentioal

ath Adoto Leon O830r5 at the saza addreso.

ECBEITO CANZIEDOS

A Roberto Corriodo Rosalso living at Jalm Forto 10%, Nestoo CIt, 18:

roportod to bo ampataetio with tro "hocion Fational, "

CEILRAL ECLALZO CUIT!

À person bering the taro of Eulalis Cutioros ms formrly prosident

of tho Orard Ilboral Forty In laz1o0.

It 1s ro:orted that Conoral Gutierros

mas ausociatod with jeneral Antonio s, Villareal lis contouplated revolutionery

novenont.

noral Cutiseres ma onco the frovicloal ireidont of saxico, and

Instigatod revoluticory sativity at Durango os iarah 16, 102%

(MANUEL SCATZ MORIE.

Tala perso: la tha leador of the "soolun lational", orcanisation shier

lo rogardod ao coo os to most important oppositioniat eroupo in toxico. It vos

founded 1s 1933 an: e 1os politioal organization, and 1to object vas to lay the

• basio tor &

"new apiritual robirth of oltizerabip.

It elaias e nabership of

forty thousas

de mald stronoth in to bo lomd anone the professional and

banirosa von o° Hexlos, Morin la reported to so e politioal arrisor of Ibares.

Serreno and sas at one tira a serer of tira

"Cornell of tha Mlrpanidad "'overent.

Su fioloat Infornation mus laoking to ortablish a record on the

following individialce

Ilde Fernando de la Pierto,

Aloendro (lavarrie,

syurarde to lernandes.

San Bertolose, dalco lo del Villar,

Pablo Massoal Faale

---

## Page 79

14-00009

Leto Bayuand Doston

Forace l. Potora

Ten Doousant

ivivine timE, 1846

IJA

Tho Fodoral Dureau of Invosilgation Would a molato

Aoo0uslud 50. 69045

ArQURsID 8'o farron irally c/s

CONFIDENTIAL

"sire"

---

## Page 80

14-00009

U

Ite Haynnot Dester

Boraso I, Potors

suno 10, 1066

WE DENTIAL

The Federal Bureau of Investigation would appreciate

having a'capy al the follering Ret doousantes

Accasalas 5o. 65847 0

Besoonion Do. 72828 0

Harres orally 9:0/44

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 81

womantlink

72 506 CH

18 1220

June da 10c6

ARUBAHTUN FOR I. O. Darwin Harron

BULBCT! & dA DOOLInE NO. 2177, copy Husbor & -

The attached docusant was translitod to you at the

request

of Dro Willian lo Laagor of too R & A Franoh.

Horace l.

Pete o

XoR BRASOH

AT TA CHIXIT

8:8/9h

15. Permis

CUNFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 82

ny 10, 1964

Fiorace No Poters.

Oundo Her 1002 (Luis Gunzo BAr L803)

Ross Harso luber or lubarlevells

MACAO: 0h1099

Pablo AvrIl do YIUTO

He would greatly approciato rovoiving whatever inforastion

you hava available on ths Cuaso Farrisen Affair, shich tavolves

the oubjest ladividualo.

SECHET

cancer cod

1:4,

grask-X-2-ad-121

7. 7alder #18

---

## Page 83

5825-815

OFFICE OF STRATEGIE, SERVICES

INTEROFFICE MEMO

SECRET

TO:

Mr • Horaco Potors

DATE: 15 May 1944

FROM:

Staur doo Ealperin

Mr. H. RtA

SUBJECT: R & A B0. 2158.

Attached 1e Infornation requested orally

by you from Mr. Borah and doutined for Mr. Cadoese

In the Offloe of Censorahip. For the purposes of

our records, would you kindly send us a written

roquest for information on the Cuneo Harrison

matter t

.....,"

raiser c

SECRET

---

## Page 84

1d-0n0d

11068-504.

24/61

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

"INTEROFFICE MEMO

HAAN

Viss it

TO...

FROM

SUBJECTS

d day 194k

Enclosed you will find wat little Iatornation

we baye on Ermanuel Rosen. I hope it will be of soge

help to you.

Approved

Bruce P. Puitt

Acting Chief. Bignplical Rundo

SECRET

13

---

## Page 85

ANTING ANG

Paid, sa,

"o settin

Ate Engical Docton

•. .., ч.

Phone No: 10066-040400- ian

Tha Foderal Fureau of Inter igatica woold sopreelate

harlin a copy of

tho folloring Rid documant:

40c0s610n

• Exo 66080 €

12027 1711672:

22.

Sate Harren esoting 4/87

amant no citer

FREE 70

---

## Page 86

asroara le 20010,

Sagese F. Dane

Oscar Lange

MDA)

40541 21, 1064

CONFIDENTINL

1112 you ploase chast guar recorde agalast be

mons of Osans Lorre and forraid any nasortel you mey. 1ate:.:

Be la a Polisbobor professor from the Univeraity

Ro do now vialting at rescow, reportodly to Loar

the character end alma

of tho Poliah Aruge

Sources

Hers-aper olliping

#.Y.Tiasg

April 30,1016

eno to kupby 29x. 27.1906

i aspirit.

Bapl

CONFIDEMTIAL

---

## Page 87

14-00000

April 27, 134

Received Iran Bernard. A. Torell, CSSg two rolls of

nicrofile containing State Departient questionnaires

corpleted by Americans repatriated on the Gripsholm

which arrivad in the United States April 6, 194l.

Disparia Relapie

8802

ii: crises: a7e s262"

X. Raymond destore

Annes.

---

## Page 88

1d-0n0d

secy. of

1/26/14. TELEPHONE CONVERSATION - IT. DESTON & B. A. TONELI

RE: LEPRITRE, Patrick

It. Deston's secretary is checking to see if the State

Department has given 033 a report subritted by Patrick Lepaitre.

She will advise us.

called back t said there was

noel 59

SOURCE: NYS 10, April 24

---

## Page 89

14-00009

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

INTEROFFICE MEMO

тО:

Mr. Potors

DATE: 26 April 1944

do1, Coatral Information Divisl

•SUBJECT:

I an attaching a photostated copy of CID dooument number 6488% which

you requested.

Thie le being sent to you on a permanent oharge.

to FBI

4/v4

---

## Page 90

475

Lto Raymond Deser

Horuso 1, Petora

Orgarlestion Doch of the Bas Party.

Ayr1l 21, 1046

I as sofored by a highly rollablo souroo that the last

Party publishod a boor etitlod "Organisation Book of The

ins Party a caruince of thich me restrioted to fury

It da barm that corml ageraleo la Haat tor have

plea as this bad and 1 a vonlorEr II you have a copy la

your dainle vhleh couls bo nde availablo to un fo ones

tions

118/eh

Min Tin

tailors e

Colt 2a

lotte for painte

alisis Scott

SLORET.

19

---

## Page 91

Rie'd

4/20

RE:

C.I.D. Moa, 65057 § and 64837 C

Mr. Peters discused the mtter

of the two C.I.D. documents

requested by karror with It. Drtin and was advisod. later

during to day, thât the former dooment mas an SI docunent

and would have to be requested from Bolin under dissenination

No. A 23584.

The lattor docurent 18 out bit a photostat

will bo made fur Marron.

---

## Page 92

14-00009

053 Est. 520

4/20/IL TELETHONE CONVERGATION BETITO LT. DUSTIN'S SECRETARI/ (8 & A)

AND B. A. TOXI

I Dustin's veerstary adulood sa that Interrogation of passengors

retuning on the Gripshole, larch 6, wore not in a'& & Illes but

1% ass posaible that. the Foreign Exports Group In len lork night

have those interrogations, she la conlecting lew Jork and will

adviso.

Sourer: Phonia to reme

Andreith

"'inito"

---

## Page 93

CONFiDeNirin

Apr 11 15, 1946

15982:

Bernard: A. Porell:

"stehtower" publication

Confiraing our telophone carversation of codaj, I an

miting this soiorandur requesting that you inquire dis

eroeblo in ordor to coror the source of thia recuest as

bedog iron ass as to whother a journal entitled "'atehtower",

pablication of the religlous seet el Jehovah's itoesses,

su priated in Fronch or 1n any native frican languago.

Copies of this journal have been seen in lest Africa but to

our kionledgo no other place in Aírica.

It has been suggested that a catalog of all Jehovablo

wItnasses pubiieations mighs be secured from the Batchtoner

Tract and Bible Socloty, Brooklyn, E. I. Howercr, as you

suggested, I bellove the library of Ouagress would be the

beat course.

TOTELL: ROLLARD

sOURCE: Inforsation 1r: IN T231

Eenested by greasted

42

W44-1-8-49-12

ff418

Bafl

"CONFIDENTIAL

16238

---

## Page 94

* -31495

83

it it,

are 111210 ho langer

Hornoo He Petorn.

Lalad son Seotion

Politiond Situation 1a 8:011y

April 8, 1941

CRAT

Tha attachod tenorenzua relatiag to the politioal altuatlea

Attachment

8012688 AX 7,26

SECRET

-308.

---

## Page 95

14-00009

Dro two do larger, 1 kee

Vor Plotorial recorde Section

Bernard As Torol

snap Shots of Haganald and Mentala

March l, 1944,

Enclosed ar the above subjeat photographs, a

otier of tranaiital fran the ler Departant, adjutant

Generalia Offico, and the orleton omunication fron the

bender of theus map shots.

shera protos are sent to you for your flies nad

16 suald Do approclatod lE you sud MItO lT. BarE A LePerto

torall/emig

Leties dated barch 101944:

insa Adjutant Contio G1:100 and (26)

pictures.

2009222119

64

interina,

---

## Page 96

14-00000

03

2995%

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNENT

TO

: Mir. Horado Peters (sI)

FROM : Stanloy P. Lorell

SUBJECT: Secret Message Techniquea

DATE: 23 February 1944

Thia Brasch 10 ergaged In a survey of the above sub ect, taeluding

secret 1a8.

Obr1ou815, the first thing we want 1s a sarvey of the

preseat state of the art. le have canrassed erery sterested

agency exsept the 13!.

We have, on 22 Febriary 1944, shown our devices nad sabotage

reapone to Mosars. Coffoy, Flanagan and Parsuas of the FBI.

these

gentlemen suggested that an official request from yo: for entrea

to their laboratory on the above subject of secret inks, oto..

culd be well received.

The study of this subjoot lo In the hands of ose man saly. He 1s

a chenist and lar export of Irterratioal repute and for security

reasons works entiroly in a secret laboratory in Rochelter, h.Y.

It 1s suggested thet opening this subjoot to our appointee will

not be estiroly a gift on the part of the Bureau to 15,

but that

highly interesting information will thereby be mads arailable to

the FBI laboratory•

Infortunately, spood is very necessary to prevent duplioation of

effort, and I would appreciate a high priority actic on the abora

request.

Steal flost, rector

85. to

SECRET

---

## Page 97

14-00000

Lett

120047

CONFIDENTIAL

Harah 8, 1044

Horsee W. Potera

Ve sould appreciate: uy inforation you havo, la additor

to that already turod over by you to I-t, rogerdlag the

tolloning tadviduals,all of ahon aro bollovad to be in

19RrX2 A01Ar1d

301408,

Julius

TRue, DIrich

SOUR PES

al-12

Nash-Xi.

Folde # 18

CONFIDENTIAL

its one;

---

## Page 98

2/15/44

22015, 1944

TISHONE COPVERSATION BETTEN UR. FETIRS AND DR. S'AULEY LOVEL

Ure Lovell intinatad that his primary purpose in wanting to

go to FBI mould be to explore. He wanted to elve them sono

techniques of so work againat industry which havo various

advantagos over many tochniquos, yet are very simple, Lovell

stated trio:pertaired to activities agalnat Acerican industry.

Lovell stated he had an arsenal of weapons which ho was going

to shew Friday at the heryland Pesearch Lab in Aroa Fo

UT. Potors asked if they could provide trasportation for

Hoover to this show, to which Lovell replied they could note

He added 1t was only 12 ailes. Mr. Patore asked him if he

Knew when we meeting on friday was. Loves statoe

ho did

not know the eract time.

LoTell added he would/f8&08F did

not come to the show, that it was being put on for Theater

Officors, and that It would probably be a repoat performance

for anyone on Flover's level. Ur. Peters said he would tell

Harres

that Lovell mantod to come to hia offico ard explain.

the tochniques.. Mr. Loveld said he thought he had some new

informatiia that FEI dida't know arout.

Lovell said he

would llke to go into the nene subject later.

Lovoll said

he could oarry a aatchol full of devices but he did not

want to do that.

Nr. Peters said ho would see

Tamm tomorrow

Lowell asked for an appoiutment with FBI for tomorrow

afternouno

•-софістрі""

2684N233

---

## Page 99

CONFIDENTIAL

LEo Colo Proston lie Jrega

RiA

Jamary 6, 1941

Horase #. Fetere

Photostat astoriad relating da carasa Polico Cosmuniortions sYstem

Attanred aro the photoatato of the laahrichtanitrol Dor

2ranua/91021808

The U.S. Offioe of Consorship has advisod us that they

have

no ebjcotion to the une of thie satorial as yeu lavo succostal

pruvidod that it do not dieserinatod to the pubilo focarally.

ño mould ap, rostato tho ratura of the photontate shon you

hero finlaned vita toon»

ALASTS

CONFIDENTIAL

26aost

afra

4

---

## Page 100

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

PiGTIRE DE STRATEGIE SERVICES

INTEROFFICE MEMO

Horace W. Peters

2046 que Building

It- Col. Preston E. Janes

818 Annex

Photostat Material Relating to German Police

Communications Systen

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE: 31 December 1943

with our telephone conversation of yes

terday, I am returning the photostats of the Nachrichtenmitte

Der granungspolize in order that you may determine the

It would be appreciated 1f you could return this docu-

ment to me within the next two or three days as it 1s

urgently needed in connection with a report on which.re.

are now working.

Prestost Jam

PRESTON E.

Lt.

col-,

R+A

Assistant Chief

Europe-Africa Division

Wach-X-2-Ad-12

18

Bp /

CONFIDENTIAL

89

---

## Page 101

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECTs

INTEROFFICE MEMO

Horace N. Peters

DATE:

29 Nov: 1943

2046 que Buflding

It. Col. Preston E. James

818 Annex-

Photostat material relating to German Police

Communications system

The photostats of the Nachrichtenmittel Der

Ordnungspolizel, which you forwarded to Dr.

banger

on 22 October, have now been received in this office.

Although your memorandum 1s stamped secret,

the

photostats are apparently unclassified.

We should

like to know if this means that the photostated reterial

1s free, as we wish to Include material from this docu

ment in a restricted pubiication.

But 6emase

PRESTON E.

JAMES

It. C01.,

In •

Assistant Chief

Europe-Africa Division

RHA

1/30

Taking cres 7

Tanton

Peters yo

estralis.

90

8A: 140N2

---

## Page 102

4-g0001

80r. lê, 1849

Jad Erasan

Tho rennato for marossary donanto alii ba mado ebronzi

tireinee

wafer, aus

'""

"di fre

•? 179.

a dia: 3

---

## Page 103

SECRET

Dcruber 23, 1945

SUBECT:

J2091

Photoatat Basirinl reliting to Cores 20110e

Concialoation.dyste

. Ka? Brassh

The suojoet amerind me piered. ly Sritial Imperial

Genirship In Tinliad.

To suuld expreciate 15 vamy muot

1f you mould arraure to hare cheeo dosents treaslatod, tot

only for the uso si jur Brazob. but leo tir X-2,

So rud

othora cat may bo laterericão

Fur your inforsation, tha

Commontlong Dirizion revorts Last more 13 notaing sew

8u 1ido natoriel aud that shoy are sut isterested is 1to

ilosover, 1t

cosurred to us ihat, asido fros it tocha.

end espects, 1t my ountala sino increation of rotatoglo valad.

Torace Fo Puters

Attechnant (1)

Barged

1: Sa09÷

SECRET

2

28510-

---

## Page 104

6783

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

INTEROFFICE MEMO

TO: Ir. Forace IT. Peters

FROM: Gol. Contrell furt

SUBJECT:

DATE: August 5, 1943

I attach a copy of the General Order, no. 9, supp. 5,

Issued June 10, 1943, establishing the Biographical Records

Section

As I explained over the telephone, the term 'SI' as

used in the Order and appendix was designed to include I.2.

SECRET.

93

---

## Page 105

14-00009

= :.

R

CESTRAL CRUER

1S3J2Ds 10 June 1948

ErFECLIVES & duce 1549

LIST S

SUBTCIs Biographloel Racorde.

lo There la horaby ostabllehod in the Contral' Information

Dirloion of the Research and Anslysia Branch of the Orfico of

Itratoçlo dorrices a suction to do kason sa Blographical Bocordo.

&. Blorrsphical Recorda ahall

be ressensible for aho

systonatlo do: lootion and rocordine of Inforsition about porelea

persone abroad and in thia country sho say bo of interest for pur

posee of payahologient sartaro and military ocoupation, and

gensrally for the properation of such loaniora on porsona da say be

roquired by the various operations of 008.

8. Blographics! Reoords shall make the fillant possible

uno of ariating facilition of

ofs in the collection and eraluation

of the material.

4. A11 nano Inforsation nou erallable in or Horaafter....

sogulred by the: zevoral. brenchoe of 05s shall de systaratleally sado

avallablo to the nor section.

The procedure to be folloved sith ro

apsot to 31 eaterial la set forth In Appondis "A" attachodo

O. The personnel and filoo of the Georraphlo Indor of

Pursona in 31 ars horoby tranaferred to the now sootion.

6. The personnol and budgotary roguiremanta for the seotion

ano haraby approved as submittedo:

1111167 4, Donovan

Director

Attachent

SECRET

crace 2161069221

---

## Page 106

Appendix "A"

Relationship af SI Material to Blographiosi. Rocorde

The following procedure shall be follored in handling

blographloal date dorived fros sI souroost

1. SI natorial (other than operational and striotly CE

recorde and material) 1o to be made availablo to 9h.

Unless

authoriaod to include auch data, IR will onlt noy reforence to

subveraive or undercover aotivitios of indiriduals, except where

an individual lo a notorlous agent, or otherise la so conducting

hio sotivitios that soorecyrespooting them la useless or unneces..

вагув

&o there an Individual, 18 of Intorest to ER, and 1o also

engaged in undercover activitios, BR may record atraight blographloal

data and any also indioatos

(a) the subjoot'e pollideal tiers - 0.600 "Pronally" -

"Pro-batos"

(1) his trustworthiness -e 8o, "can bo trusted"

"cannot be trusted" and

(o) b1e →111ingnese or unwillingness to cooperato.

or siallar phrasos, providod the commente ars of a type in general

uso in the recorde and are not caloulated to suggost undercover

aotititiod.

8. In, cason whore mterial regarding autrorairos la nade

avallablo from S1, an apropriate punch should be sade in IBa carda

to tniloato the individuald 1e under obserration ty 81.

* I shall be free to rooord any data en subrersive

aotivitios received fron sources other than SI, and shall arrange

to make such dato arallable to sI.

5. In certain cases where evidence of the subversive

activitios of individuala would be embarrasuing to ca operations.

the evidence should be suppressed upon the request of CE.

SECRET

---

## Page 107

Ise do lo Cotirall

chiefiel

I Nels 1543.

To Intern

so prontly ap rochito tio jriotateta you sur in rocally

of Jour call 1120 on tho jrion of south 1t1000

I as adilned by lioüolferbold ta our lew lon arrico that

so have no, rocitad tros jou ary naterial rolatine to the foli

Ing court r1018

Arabia

Albania

Matra

Crouce

Croto

X hutra

Haddancer

xücoulnd

in China)

11I5108 (e090e rorthern sootion.

md Judon of 30Mfrica)

It would ba approcitad 11 vo could bavo ubotoutato of notertal

you try have

a: shoce arao sindler to shat which you cave us fos

tho inton of Sonta isica.

П. tredo

Le Die

A come To 1

faeland.

SHeI

Mans as Bese

---

## Page 108

14-00000

SECRET

July. 29, 1815

MENURALTH for Mr. Darld Fo Selforkold

SIBJECTS Prelosed photostate

The enclosed photostais from dio tociroll arplain

thensolves.

2• Cottroll called soveral days ago for permiasion to

cond photostate of his 1-2 file so sout! airion at the re-

quest of tco 5.I. aan there. ir larphy had no objection,

end I thought 1t tight be a good

idea to ask for m ortra

set for us, to enablo you to chost agalast your files.

Cottroll asya that.you.alresdy..are.thle.data, but 1t

oconod to so as esonaloel opportsity lo nato cortala of

that Laots

Forado H. Fotora

542/eb

SECRET

---

## Page 109

SECRET

Ire Go M. Cottroll

Horado Potera

blot of Pronaris Spaniardo working da Spaln

June 22, 1948

The attached request fron t. Solferhold esplaina

Itself.

Mall you please sand no any intomation you have

on these ludiriduala at your convealanoe!

HP/BH.

....

willi

0 7 53

SECRET

---

## Page 110

Mr. Cottrell

Horace W. Peters.

Matorial on File

June 11, 1943

I will appreciate it very much If you will send

me any Informatien you may have relating to the

following Inuividuals:

ADOLPHA RIVERA TOPKINS

A.R.T. TURNTO!

CARL ROLTY

PAUL SUHAEFPER

Also, do you have anything on. file concerning the

following organisation:

the Harquette Analyst

Room 2110

8 West 40th Street

New York City

÷

abre....

had so.

CUNFIUENHAL

91

---

## Page 111

SECRET

(then Pillad in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

SUBJECT OF

DECUMENT

Dan I Poore

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH

0R

LeeP Polder 1367/22 Maup3

RVOTORTED. DATE OF INTO.

EVALUATION

10- DISSEMINATED IN

IRO DATE

ATE ROGERSE

1366215

DOCUMENT

CROSS REFERNED TO THIS FILE

DISPOSITION

89.

I FILE MO.

"nVit°160 *201-89200

PERTINENT INFORMATION

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORA

B° $7

867

SECRET

LASH- 1-2 - A0-12

No 8 Mobile, 18.12.481

Boy.

r....

---

## Page 112

1TA

Dr. Allan Abrans

Ext. 210%

Research and Development

traising

5/20/43 Called me this norning in rogard to/captain Whito in

the use of the new Truth Serum developed by Dio Abrama.

Called Captain Thite In Hew York and asked him to make

direct appointment wits Abrams sometime between now and next

monday.

9

-7,x

---

