# 104-10174-10029

## Page 1

104-10174-10029

=..

3y.

SECRET

20 Mey 1960

NEMORANIUM FOR: Chief, Covert Action Start

SUB.TBCT

: Edvard G. TIchborn (P)

Lo Ou Il May I contacted TIchbor (P) In Los Angeles. Followin

he suggestion that Mr. Collins bad made, I guerled him as to hi

am1lab1l1ty to work with some of our Cubans.

I pointed out to him

that there was a Cuban soverent In extle forming and that we were

trying to keep tabe on it and hoped to be able to steer it along

Lines which we thought to be in the best Interest to the United

Statas.

In thia connection I said that we had a forth American

who was more or less handlins the operation and trying to guide them

as best he could, horever, we felt that 1t might be highly desirable

to Interject him

Into the picture because of his background and

language capabllity. I went en to point out to him that it vas

obviously an extremely dirficult task to get the Castro opposition

to sarea to one coordinated progran, etc.

I told hin that 1t vas

our hope that 1f & goverment in erdle were formed, it would Include

all segments of the castro opposition and that we were pulling

strings to see to it that 1t vas not formed in the United States. I

told TIchborn (P) that we did not envisage that he would have to work

permanently with this group but rather that he would be available

fran time to time to discuss with then and to act as

an auditor of

their probiens as wall as a mentor in their operation, ets.

Michborn (P) said that he vould be very glad to do this for

us and thought ha would be sble to find the time, The only question

that arose in his aird was the fact that he will soon be actively

engaged in the Denocratic carpaign, perhaps on a full time basie.

This obviously raises a security problen as 11 It vere to become known

that te were working with the Castro opposition, it micht reflect

unfavorable on whoever he vas supporting politically in this country.

It was left that he would give sone serlous thought to this proble

and let me know as soon as he made up his mind definitely one way o

he other whether he would be villing and available to vork with th

goverment in exile on a spot basis from time to time.

Horses y

Chief*

Political Action Divlalon

06

SECRET

---

