# 104-10102-10088

## Page 1

104-10102-10088

309-19799

86 ormore 1y60

120 ORANDOM FOR TEE RECORD

SUBJECD: Preliminary Debriefing Regort 01 /2242I0-7

Activities in Cuba

The substance of this preliminary report covers debriefing sessions

ALPALIC-7'5 operational activities in Cuba foin his initial

arrivai in Cuba 5 August until his departure 5 Tovember 1960.

b. Internal assets developed in Civa for future operationni

use.

c. Problems encountered by A-7 while operating in Cuba.

d. Projected future assignment in Ciba.

2. 1c. Jemes Pelich, who was NiPAiNC-7's case

officer auring his initial

training in lashington, tas contacted by pione fron liani by subject on

7 Lovember.

Subjact reported that he had arrived in the U. 3. by boat 5 for.

and was planning to leave that afternoon by plane for lieshingtor.

A room was

booked at the lashington Fotel in anticipation of 1-7's arrimal that evening.

At aporoximately 1300 hours, A-7 called Mr. Pelich on the agent phone from the

Vascington cirport to announce his arrival and was directed to go to the hotel,

There subject was subsequently contacted by tir. Pelach and the undersigned.

3. Upol! contacting 1-7 at the hotel, it was clearly evident that le mos

in a highly emotional state wich partly otems aron his recent escage 220:

Cuca.

In nis initiel emotional ousburst, A-7 stated that te lad not Lived ap

_to our commitrents to support his activities in Cube; that la didn't tile tae

idea se considering ninself as being expendable; that he mas not sume die va

ent him to Cuba in the flast place if ve had no intentions to suppost hi

scsivities inside the country.

A-T felt te had let him dow coa

i to end that da is fortunate la escaping retinue lostag his 1iro.

Ater tr. Pekick succeeded in quieting down A-? folloing this intejal

outburst,

1-7 tres finet asted to descrise how he menaged to set out of Cuba

without utilining our channels to effect this afiltration.

БоН69

---

## Page 2

-2

Recoze 38222

1-7 atened

then on 13 Cetober he and sent

al ta gent messeos

to nis for contact (Minty) informing him

that his situatic is

precarious and

that he musi get out of Criba as soon as possible.

coraing to A-7 his Agency contact was unaule to provide ay definita

assurence thee his depenture from duse could be expedited.

Be then

artenpted to lay on unilateral accangements to this end viti first

his operational contactl

and later his mother-in-

law introduced A-T to al

tho

offered to assist him in getting out of Cuba.. in the course of the

by the name of

On the norning of 2 lovember at 1100 hours, arrived at the

Negro's house and told A-7 that he pianned to Leave for Key West

Florida 5 lovember and vould arrange to smuggle A-T out of Cuba by

niding nim in the notor room of his yacht.

Arzangements were mace

between the principals for 1-7 to visit the yacht 4 lovember to in-

spect his proposed hiding place on the yacht. In the interin period,

A-7 stated that he began to susyect that he may have fallen into a

trao and told the legro that he was returning to the U. S. to bring

Tony VAROIlA back vith bia to Cuba. A-7 felt this vas a good sirmick

to use in the event

_planned to turn him over to the G-2

Iver inspecting his hiding place on the yacht, A-? told

he

didn't like the idea of hiding in the motor room and suggested that

le strim out to the boat, mere he could be nicied up at see.

That

light (4 lovenber) A-T stayed at the hone of

, who had a

house close to the beach at Santa Maria del Mar located alout

25 Kilometers from Favana.

On 5 November at 0530 hours, A-7 began

his long swim in rough,

choppy vaters and as finally sighted by

I yacht, where he was taken on board the vessel.

61-7

states that he ras completely exhausted when he was picked up by the

vessel).

rad piloted by l

peache

e vest, Florida 5 Bovanber at 1445 hour

uring the refueling of the yacht before une custom cidicials anive

nd irmediatelv took off dor ideni

Upon reaching liani, i-? vent

directly to his vite's home for a reunion with his family.

In query

ins 1-7 further on ho:

managed to deeve Cude 1z020u0 a

exious obstacles placed in nis bath by the E0B, A? suoted tes

Rey Nest.

---

## Page 3

- 3 m

troith acout $25,000) in der wet,

mich de hoped to cut

up for sale at some future dete.

that de, Fredo tes acroid

Chat all such vessels as his toula subsequently te nationalized on the destro

rena. Pator to ais return to cus,

planned to Stay at the Test

| Miami : Tel:

Efforts to debrief A-7 on his operational activities in Cuba vere

sonewhat futile in this initial meeting

in view of his unsettled emotional

His prinary concern appeared to be his wite and his rather strained

relationship with his in-laws, who were now residing in Miami.

nection, it should be pointed out that this motional state appeared to stem,

In part, from his inherent suspicions that his wife (21 years of age and rel-

atively attractive) was being unfaithful to hin. All Indications are, however,

that A-7 has no real basis for these suspicions; other than those conjured up

in his own mind.

in any case, be requested if it might not be possible to vire-

tap his wife's house in Miami, so that he could have daily reports on her activi-

While no promises were mede, A-7 was

assured we would atiempt to look

into this possibility, once ve had more definite information that there were

some grounds for his suspicions.

Subsequent discussions with Security

Office revealed that a wire-tap of A-f's house was a major project in itsel

and inpossible to accomplish at this time without tieing up considerable

persounel.) A-T was later told this atter ve assured him that his suspicions

vere groundless where his wife was concerned.

Following this initial meeting with a-7,

it was apparent to both

'r. Pekich and the undersigned that time would be needed to restore agent's

confidence in our capability to support his efforts in any future projected

assignment in the field.

Moreover, A-T's emotional state, which appears to

sten from his problems with his in-laws and his concern about leaving his rile

alone, must be fully resolved before attempting to dispatch him egain.

6. In later debriefing session held fron 3 to 15 November with A-7,

considerable more light was thrown on the nature and scope of his operational

activities in Cuba.

As previously indicated in paragraph 1 of this report,

A-7's activities are summarized as follows:

A PANIC-7 Operational Achivities in Cuba:

In line vith bis projected mission to ormenize resistance arouns.

in Revana and Binar del R10 fo= mounting sabotaze operations against

key target installations and assesination of prominent Cuban Cormunist

members in the Castro entourege, A-7 appears to have made some progress

in this direction from the time he amived in cuba in early August 1900

to his subsequent extiltration 5 November.

Upon arrival in Havana,

1-7 began a series of meetings with leaders of the CA, Triple-A and dr

with a view to establishing some degree of rapport in the

of his own personal objectives.

It is significant to note that in

a period of approximately 5 veels, 1-7 made contact vith

over 42 indi

viduals, who represented vorious anti-castro groups operating in

Havana and Pinar del Rio areas.

4-7 Prenkly zanitted that he hed spread

himself out too thin in this respect and that in many cases he saulù

---

## Page 4

SEDGET

- 1-

have employed cut-outs insted of attempting to contact certaia

individuals hinsel. Individual meetings mere 1so held by

and MRu.C-1 with a view to establisring

some degree of rapport and coordination of activities in the areu.

In this connection, A-7 claims he turned over a munber of his assets

MPANIC-5,

prior to his moverent to

the ESCMBRIX; there he

tres subsequently picked ip by c-?.

1. Internal Assets Developed in Cuba Eor Future Operational Use:

In attempting to sift out specific assets developed by 4-7 during

his activities in Havana, three of the more prominent individuals with

whom A-7 wes in direct contect should be listed.

(1)

orner of the

Tin Havana.

A-7 used (FIRMANDEZ for blanning the

selection of suitaule It's and DI's in both Piner del Rio

and criente provinces, location of safehouses in Fevana and

use of his garages for storage of ams and military equipment

which A-7 anticipated would be dispatched to him.

a lawyer by profession, who has unlimite

contacts in Pinar del Rio and who was working closely with A-?

to for a guerrilla group in the Sierra de los Organos.

also selected to handle the propaganda for the "Cuba Libre" group

being organized by A-7 inside Cuba.

a Cuban national wo had served.

in the i.s. Army and who also fought in the Macanbrays ageinst Patisa

ROBAINA Claimed he had a force oi 150 men et his disposal

and tes planning to use them in a guerrilla action against Castro

forces in the Pinar del Rio aree.

l'oreover, once proper rateriel

support in the form of arms and other military equipment mes nade

available to him by Ä-7, he felt he could marshal over a thousand

men in this area.

(+) In addition to the above assets, 1-7 indicated that MNaRa-1

(noin to him aa

rendered him considerable assistance in moving securely about devana

In the course of his operational contacts.

In the case or Met 1.1

A-7 highly praised his abilities as a highly capable Case 0t2icer;

and he feared for his personal sefety.

Ze suggested that MdRo-1

should be brought back to the U.S. for a rest period,

batore C2

picied hin up.

(5) Finelly,

A PUG-1 who as trained in sabotage techniques

U.S. and tras

later assigned to 1-7,

was listed by A-7 as an asset,

channeled into nore specific operations, cace avallable

materiel as forthcoming.

he felt,

that he and zuel

vere at considerable odds on certain aspects of conducting poets

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

- 5 -

in havana, but felt he esuld resolve these differences upon

his om return.

c. Problens Encountered by 1-7 mile operating in Cube:

Some of the more significant problems. encountered by A-7

during the course of his operations in Havena are as follows:

Security:

the disguise given him, he had to be constantly on the alert

from the danger of being picked up by G-2 or Castro police

during the course of his numerous operational contacts. Fe

sited several examples where he believed he was under sur-

veillance by the opposition and subsequently succeeded in allud-

ing this surveillance.

He complained that his disguise, (hair-

piece and mustache) rapidly deteriorated in the Havana clinate

and as a consequence he was forced to abandon this disguise towar

the latter part of his stay in lavena. Similarly; he was forced

to change his quarters continually, by noving fron one safehouse

to another as a security precaution, since he felt that it ras

generally known in Cuban circles that he was operating in the

Havana area, and that he was probably already under the sur-

Materiel Support:

In the course of these debriefing

sessions, one of A-7's chief complaints vas thet despite ais

urgent ressages sent through his cut-out (Mare 1) so the Station

that arms and other military equipment were sorely needed by!

his groups in Havana and Piner del Rio, no action tras taken to

implement his requests.

As a result, A 7 felt he was losing face

with his followers and

this was one of the primary factors for

retuming to the States to discuss this aspect with Headquarters.

lieed for Direct Commnication:

A-? stated that inthout the

services of a W/T operator no could be in direct communication

vith us, he is fully convinced that any subsequent retur to Cis:

in an operational capacity would be ineffectual.

Merce,

would be one of the conditions laid on us that when he returned,

a W/I operator vould be assigned to him personally.

so that when i returned,

Projected Tuture Assigment of A-7 in Cuba: Predicated on the assum

tion that A-7 will be sent back to cuba in the relatively neer future,

Issrs. Pekick and Betore, feel that his nost significant contribution can be

made in the Pinar del Rio area, there he appears to have known

assess in the

This, however, does not preclude A-? from also operating.

in Terene

developing

operations with AVPUG-1, Thon ie assume will cooperate

with 4-7 despite their differences in how these operations should be conducey

Moreover, shoula the livuM complex decide to nove into other provinces of

*Cuba veere military action is to teke place, A-7 vould appeer to be the logic

322227

---

## Page 6

320101

- 6 -

choice in toking over toe operations in this area gainst Castro targets.

In any case, a decision has been reached that A-7 should not be danpatched

without a trained i/I operator who can be relied on to cort closely on

operations with A-? inside the country.

8.

Case Officer Corments:

Despite A-7's tendencies to operate on

a grandiose scale,

his disappointment in the lack of support received on his

initial mission to cuba; and his display of emotional instability at times,

it is believed that his

for us in Cuba.

efforts can be properly channeled to toris effectively

His motivation appears to stem from his personal ambitions

to make his mark on this counter-revolution against Castro, where he can

assure himself of a priminent position in the future government to be formed

in Cuba after the overthrow of the Castro regime. A-7 has imagination end

the till to succeed. His weakness is his inability to hide his personal

ambitions fron others wao may work with him and who may have altogether dif-

ferent motivations and sense of values.

Hence, it is beliaved that 4-7

vill encounter problems in handling peole recruited or assigned to him in

the course of his activities inside the country.

ANPUG-1 can be sited as

a good example, there a clash of personalities has apparently already taken

place.

In view of this, A-? will have to be dealt with firmly and must ce

convinced that the success or failure of his projected mission will depend

on his ability to develop confidence and loyalty among his followers once hè

is inside the corntry again.

Similarly, A-? must resolve his personal probler

dealing with his wife and in-laws, which has had an adverse effect on him

personally since his return, and nay affect his operations inside Cuba.

The

next several weeks will, therefore, need be devoted to re-establish A-7's

confidence in our ability to support his efforts in Cuba,

once he is sent

back, and working out his family problems to obviate any adverse psyccolo-

gical effect which may be detrimental to bis operations im Cuba.

NE/ 4/PH/O2S

---

