# 104-10534-10117

## Page 1

104-10534-10117

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED•

SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.

TOTAL COPIES 3(0

MUTING AN

SECRET

GROUP 1.

EXCLUDED PEOM AUTOMATIE

(When Filled In)

DOW#GRADING AND

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

• YES

3

4

• NO

/OR INITALS • SEEN BY

RA

CAC IN

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

BY:

AT:

DISSEM BY

ACTION

X-REF TO FILE NO..:

FILE RID DIRET: TO

INFO:

SBS

RID COPY.

FILE;

va EURE. DOP. ADAP. CI.CIlOPS.fI

FLINTI CAS, CA/PROt

SECRET 251000Z MAR 68 CITE BERN 2340

DIRECTOR INFO GENEVA

25 MAR 68 IN 7 7 1 31

REDTOP

1. SWISS PRESS 25 MARCH CARRIES ACCOUNT SATURDAY

EVENING POST STORY BY DAVID WISE IN WHICH HE CITES NOSENKO

AS SOURCE SOME REPORTS ON OSWALD USED BY WARREN COMMISSION•

WISE HAS ALLEGEDLY SEEN THESE REPORTS.

2. THIS FIRST PUBLIC MENTION NOSENKO FOR SOME TIME AND

IS LIKELY CAUSE LIAISON QUESTIONS• PLS ADVISE.

SECRET

BT

Leised

- 5B/01/15

BaS

ForMeRLy dassilied trans tipt

Commission sessions disclosed that Leo, Harvey

Oswald was such an extremely poor, shot% dur

oing his stay. in Russia in 19,9 that hunting.com

ions had to give him same, The Commission

ived this data trom Yuri Ivanovich Nosenko

a Russian secret police agent who defected, lo the

three, months, after, the assassuation. of

esident, Kennedy, according tovant article by

David Wise in the current isste: of the Saturday

Evening Post, The same article, said the Commis

sion tried but failed to see vital autopsy photo

Braphs to clarityconfusing devidence/about the

bulets which struck the President.

dRAn

effort to, restore the Baltimore home of

HaLs Mencken is being drawn up by Dennis: Ales

9, an employe o the State, Planning Department

and altan of the tamed journalist

Space build up rom.sheer

Union success fully orbits a marned spacer pla

torax in 196810

---

