14-10183-10386)

1S March 1963
MOORANDUM FOR THE WECHRD
SUBJECT: ANTHUNK, (Leonardo)
Status Report

“yy The four principals are in a wate house, “way cut
of Miami.” They began training ou 4 March 1963. .

2. A training offic eee at WAYE
ype training. WAVE

on I March 1963, We will
will handle rest.
3S. Cover was arranged for two men:
Mk. Br, MORENO resigued from KEW and was picked

up by cover firm in Mew York.
]

3
B. rr job in Pasadena and
? @ too, to Miani area.

C. Other two men had no cover problems.

4. A P.O, Box in Mew York City arranged for all
principals, Also arrangements havo bean made to mail
their letters frou Mew York City.

5. We have now received PRQ's oa all-the principals.
POd's on all ef them will be in order shortly. Two of then
already had FOA's, :

6. On 4 arch 1963, I notified Bob Rurvitch that
this. eperation was off the ground and that training would
begin damewiately, Murvitch asked how wo handled Br.
MOKESO's exployment with HEY. I told him we had the Dr.
resign and that wo would attempt te secure his re-emplgycent
either with HRW er another U.5. Government agency.

7. Bineo writing this @hase mix paragraphs a cAtld,

ressived 123 i tional ta
for AMICE/14 jand ANTRORE/S ee 1)
Alse, ea antisipated, wo will have te pay vis)
these sever canpani.

oa. This is presently being arvanged.



ea :

SECRET

2

&. To the best of my knowledge we are wtill siming
for infiltration somet ti fia April. WAVE has not otherwise
reported, and it appears that all is proceeding routinely.

ALYOXSO RODRIGUEZ
8A8/SO

Distribution: tt
1 ~ AMTRUWK file
1 F file
1 + file
ri [file
1
1

file

- ‘OHO

