# 104-10228-10091

## Page 1

1104-10228-10091

SECRES

SENSITIVE

19-134-5513

19 Juae 196&

MEMORANDUM FOR: Drigadier Ceneral E. C. Landale

SUBJECT

: U. S. Army Enlietment Program lor Cubans

1. Altached for your informalion lo a summary of reporte on

verrulement los the U. 5. Army by Cuban eulo groupo in lie siarul

2. Also of Intereot in thla connection la che following addillona!

Iaformation:

•. Col. Wendell U. Johnson, our contact with Dr. Jooe

MIRO Cardona, bas been Informed by MIRC'a decretary, Ascension

Cadavleco FEREZ, that twenty-one menbera of the Democralle

Chrlotian Movement went to the Caribbean Admiesion Conter on

12 June 1962 10 anlier In the U.S. Army al the olfice of !al Le.

Fernando Ordas.

They vero told, according to PEREZ. but

Alo Urdas was no lonzes at the Caribbean Admieston Centor and

ebot tho Cuban enlistment activitles were "inding up." PEREL told

Col Jobnaon on 15 June that the same group had subseguently gone

to the mala U. 5. Army recrudling office In the Milaul area to enlist.

They reportod that they were told that they could not be accorred

because they did cot nees the Engliah language reguirement and that.

If they had been accepted for enlistment, they could be aralioned out

aldo che United States.

b. In collecting Information concerniag Cubans who mighe

Do ellgible for United Sealed milltary trairing, Capt. Irnesto

DESPAIGNE Peres, Milltary Coordiaator for the Cuban Revolutionary

Council, contacied a group of former Cuban piloto la tbe Milami area.

ra a rasult of thla contace, a reprementative ol this group telaphoned

Ina Cilice of the Cecrelary of Delonde on or abour ll Juno 1906 10 ast

if they were to be given milliary tralning soon and racelved a segalive

ELISITIVE

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECAET

SENSITHE

reply. On 15 June Mr. Kobert A. Furwitch of the Department of

State telephoned lianuel Antonio de VARONA y Loredo lo laguire

aboue shta tacidens.

VARONA was not familiar with the matter

and referred the query to DESFAIGNE. However. VANONA alno

informed Col. Johnson, who telephoned Air. Hurwlich on 15 June

and explained the background. Air. Hurwitch told Col. Johnson

that he was concerned that too much talk by Cubane might

jeopardise the U.S. Army prograns now under consideration."

3. In commenting on the reporte in the attached summary.

Col. Johnson stated that MIRC has deen urging the Cuban exlle

groups to encourage thelr men to calis: in the U. S. Army but

that the arguments reportedly vee in Paragrapha 1 and 4 of the

eltachmem are completely contrary to the Inatructions ho gave

MIRO. In MIRO's absence Col. Johnson diecuased this matter

-with VARONA, who denied that such argumonts are being used.

VARONA stated that hia group (Movimiento de Rescate Constitu

clonal Democratico) had decided six monthe ago to analot la the

enforcement of the regiatration regulatione of the Selective

Service Syatem and t0 encourage la mambera to Join the U. S.

Army. VARONA further reported that this program had not

golen started.unll June but that he has a llot of 600 membera,

19 to 36 years of age, who are porcarial miliary material.

According to VARONA, hia group now plane to determine how

many of these have actually registered and/or enliated.

4.

Col. Johnson also commented that he had been Informed

by the U. S. Army recrultlag office in Allami that all aliena muat

regiater als montba after arrival in the United Stater and that the

Selective Service System then assigas such regiatranta to local

boardo for clasailicaton and further acilor. From the Informa-

¿lon now avallable lt la nor clear "hether the reported accividles

of the Monimiento de Rescare Constitucional Democratico are la

support of regiatration or actual eniiament.

5. As refleciod by the informatios contained ln Paragraph 2. d.

above, and la some of the reporte summarised in the attachment,

there in obriously mlaunderstandlag wichin the Cuban community

concerning the existing polloy on Cubas enliatments In the U. J.

SEISITIVE

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

SENSITIVE

Army. Although it le understood that the program now balng

considered for the future will not asoure Cuban enlistees Chat

they will not be sent outalde the United sates, both MIRO and

Col. Johnson have understood that the exoting agreement in

that Cubans who have already ellated or who enliat before

36 June 1962 will not be sens outside the United States.

There

Is also some confusion about the language reguiremento for

Cuban estlatoes under the present program.

In order to deal

with shone questione, our representativeo lo Miami urganely

need clarificallon of the exiling official policy on Cuban on-

lletmonis, both for those who have already enlared and for

lose who may callas toíore the new program la underiaten.

It would also be of great asslatance li you could provide infor-

ination on the new proposed program. I will appreciate it it

you will furnial this offlee with the above Information and with

an Indication of what portlone of it we may pass on lo AIRO lor

bla guidance.

SIGNED

WILLIAMK. HARVEY

Atlachment • Summary

DD;P/T FW/ Aast. Exec/

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/TFW - w/att.

1 - TFW/Exec - w/att.

1o TEW/PA/Prop -w/att.

bh (19 June 1962)

SENSITIVE

SECRET

tien

---

