# 104-10433-10130

## Page 1

104-10433-10130

SECHETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

BY-

AT:.

DISSEM BY.

- PER

ACTION

C/WH. 2

50P. 127

XI RID COPY

CLASELL MESSAGE

INIAL COMES

SECRET

GHOUP t

8911UD88 OBNA AUTUMNIIE

(Wheri Filler les)

DECLASSIPIEAIIGA

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

YES [I NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO...

X-REF TO FILE NO..

FILE RID RET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

ROUTING AND/OH INITIALS - SEEMIY

2

Conce

5

10

BRANCH O

DESTROY D SIG

Wa DEL, D/DEL, DDP, ADDP, <S/AF,

SECRET 081535Z APR 68 CITE MINGSTON'

Apid y0e8

DIRECTOR

MHALPHA

8 AR 68 M87116

REF KINGSTON 4004

(IN 86537) *

I. ACCORDING RUABBE-I MORNING 8 APRIL, FOUR. GROUPS TRYING GET

DEMONSTRATIONS GOING AGAINST ANEMBASSY KINGSTON BUT WITHOUT SUCCESS:

A.

GROUP OF LEFTISTS INCLUDING WINSTON MONROE ARE IN CONTACI

WITH AMERICAN BLACK POWER MAN WHO ARRIVED LAST WEEK (NOT XNOWN IF

BEFORE OR AFTER ASSASSINATION DOCTOR KINGS. THIS GROUP SAME AS ONE

MENTIONED REF, PLANNED SEND SMALL DELEGATION TO AREA AMEMBASSY

AROUND NOON 8 APRIL TO SEE IF ANYTHING COULD BE STARTED. THE

AMERICAN BLACK POWER MAN WITH THEM IS SAYING THAT WITH GOJ FULL OUI

IN PUBLIC SYMPATHY WITH DR. KING, WILL BE DIFFICULT TO GET ANYTHING

GOING. RUABBE-I COMMENTED IT UNCERTAIN IF THIS GROUP WILL TAKE

ANY ACTION.

B. LEROY INNIS, PRESIDENT OF THE GUILD OF UNDERGRADUATES. OF

UNIVERSITY OF WEST INDIES (UWIS TRIED GET UWI STUDENTS GO ON

DEMOWSTRATION BUT WITHOUT SUCCESS. (COMMENT: STUDENTS ON VACATION

AND NOT SCHEDULED RETURN TO CLASSES UNTIL TUESDAY 9 APRIL SO ARE

FREE FOR ACTION IF SPARK CATCHES).

Co PRINCE: BUSTER, LOCAL LEADER OF BLACK MUSLIM MOVEMENT, IS

FULL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT

RELEASE CLIS

BY DOC

- 0126

RET

86 WIt/

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CABLE SECRETAHIAT DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE COPY

aY:-

DISSEM BY

ACTION

ISSUED

SLOTTED

AT!.

•PER

RID COPY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

When Filled In)

BOTAGADDING ALE

PIGBASDINICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: D YES O NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO....

X-REF TO FILE NO.-

FILE RID D RET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

VR,

3

9

10

BRANCH O

DESTROY O] sIG.

PAGE 2 KINGSTON 4DDS SECRET

AWAITING WORD FROM MUHAMMED ALI, BLACK MUSLIM LEADER IN U.S.A. AND

IBS. NO. ACTIVE PLANSFER. ORGANIZING UNDER WAY.

D. MORIIMER PLANER, RASTAFARIAN WHO PARTICIPATED IN

DEMONSIRAIION AGAINST. BRITISH HIGH COMMISSION OVER RHODESIAN

HANGINGS, HAS CONTACIED SOME STUDENTS AND MEMBERS OF HIS OWN

FOLLOWING THESE SIUDENIS REPORTEDLY SAID THEY WOULD

BACK PLANER. HOWEVER,., NO INFO AVAILABLE ON TIMING OR STATUS

PLANERS EFFORTS.

20 ABOVE.. PASSED. AMBASSADOR. RUABBE-!

SAID HAS AGENTS MONITORING

ABOVE AGIIVITIES AND WILL ADVISE ANY DEVELOPMENIS AFFECTING REF.

SE CR. ET.

BT

C/S Comment: * Report of possible demonstrations on 8 April because of Dr. King

assassination

ii?!:.:

SECRET

---

