# 104-10229-10057

## Page 1

104-10229-10057

SEGRET

2e Juno 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief. WH/A/Security

VIA

SUBJECT

: Chief, WH/i/ Support

: Passporte of Cubano

1. Mr. Devine, of tho State Department, called on 22 June

and referred to previous diacusalone with membera of WH Divialon

and of WH/A concerning Miro Cardona's request for some 100 pasa-

ports of Cubano an well as other personal documento. It was

recalled bar Miro Cardona and Tony Varona, among othere in the

Council, bad raleed this question in late April and early May with

Mr. Goodwin and later with Morales Carrion.

Al that time le was

underasood that these paoaporte and documenta were collected from

volunteers for the lavasion forceo in Florida an hold poseibly by

tho FRD or ite "associates"' under an agreement that eaid passporte

and documents would be turned over to no one other than the person

concerned or his helro. I was aloo recalled by Mr. Devine that the

answer so the roquest of the Council lor these documanto was that

any individual who wanted hio documenta abould go to the entity to

which he gavo ll and make application.. It was aloo passed to the

Council that the passports were in the Florida area In custody and

were immediately avallable to the Individual or his heire.

For a

elme this soomed to suílice or, at any rato, the inquiries soomad to

atop.

• Apparently with Miro Cardona 'e knowledge a low days ago

a circular was prepared by some Cuban organization and sent to

all people in the Cuban community In Miami who might be Interested

in documento or passports, stating that anyone wanting to recover

Bald documenta abould apply to Mr. Hurowitz on the Cuban deak In

the Dopartment of Staie. Ma, Hurowits received in the laot day on

swo some thirsy lottera requesting documents of one Individual or

another and evontually decided to acknowledge them with a form

letter, stating that no responalbility for sald documents rested with

the Stale Department.

However, the State Department would do

what it could to assiet in the locating of said documenta. Meanwhile

SEGMET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ap."

SECRET

someone in Stare has contacied Carlos Plad on the Revolutlonary

Council, and has been ansured that the circular which had been

going around to Cubane will be stopped and Plad will apparently act

aB the Council'e polat of coordinailos for the recovary of said

documenta.

3.: Mr. Devine would like to have ua provide him with some

more special Instructiono than he presontly has conceralag the pro-

codures for the recovery of the documents; also, Il we can short

circult thia procoss of referral of cases to tho Stato Department la

Washington in any way, ho would appreciate 1e.

1.

Commenta and suggeatlone from WH/4/ Socurity are

requested.

(512041)

DC/ WH/4

: 1gB (42 June 1961)

Diatribution:

Orig. & l - Addresoee

1 - C/ WH/4/Support

* = C/PA-Prop

2

SEGMET

---

