104-10167-10152 fee . ‘
: . / ;  * RETURN TO CIA

: ay background Use Only
“' “De-Net-Reproduce

Chinon
C) no ote ae
CLO cs rat no

> , SALVADOR’

Om DIRECTOR . .
, : SEeee
on, Gel & wo LOA wafta &, cr,

—

»cloay Fr, 12, 7

> SALV BO, on oa
ak pir Cups BAN PELCCTEY. 44 !
REF: SALV 5205 CIN 55452 aa 7
CURAN Ob ex RR
1, HDQS HAS-DECIDED TO SURFACE e@et INFQ DURING EXECUTIVE
"SESSION OF CENTRAL AMERICZAN MINISTERS IN TEGU IN EARLY SEPTEMBER 64, :

SHORTLY TUFREAFTER INFO WILL BE SURFACED BY RESPECTIVE STATIONS TO
LOCAL ERVICES WITH REQUEST FOR ROUNDL? AND DETENTION OF
CUBAN CERT
WRER™! LEADS WHEX§ POSSIBLE, THIS SURFACING WILL 52 THE SUBJECT OF
SUBSEQUENT CORRESPONDENCE TO SALV AND ALL OTHER STATIONS CO!

By
AND We REITERATE THAT KO ACTICN TO 3E TAKEN UNTIL YCU ARE SO ADVISED
BY HDQS., FYI: ABOVE PLAN STEMS IN f¥ PART FROM YCUR SUGGESTION

CONTAINED PARA ONE SALV 5196,
2. EAVE DECIDED THAT NC FOLLOWUP ON PITCH

CURA Tanah
romiseibhemmnanienss SHOULD B8© MADE UNTIL ASTER STRFACING AND UNTIL
DUST HAS SETTLED ON “Jiertoxs TAKEN AS RESULT OF SURFACING.

2 IN VIEW ASOVE,

T OR HARASS

REASONING HERE IS THAT ANY +
PITCH WOULD HAVE

IMMEDIATELY AFTER ANOTH

RELATLONSHIP WERS HE TO ACCEPT RECRUITS: RS ACTED
ke

Teach :
PRECIPATANTLY IN INSTIGATING PITCH To goeeitiM Re ts

VHEROM WE BELIEVE THAT APPROACH SHOULD BE FCLLOWED UP AT LATER
Cia of Eyere_
DATE. “SSRs

Aeaeasina ovricen

auracanesrige
errcea

Gear Se



RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
* Do Not Reproduce

ee MESSAGE FORM CU

Seercstce mor SECRET

on (No nox

valle Cl me mi cs mut No. : :

wo

30M, DIRECTOR

conn wo
10 ‘ INFO. Tt Dk YMET
IN SALV AFTER MINISTERS MEETING AND WILL DISCUSS
Fee.
. CASE IN DETAIL. Rerak :
Tene

Dace pme PROVIDE DETAILS OF APPROACH MADE TO ap@@2e2s BY
es
ey Seamer MANSER IN WHICH diae WAS

MENTIONED, oGek: vine TRIS UP, OR DID — :

WILLINGNESS TO WORK WITH meee Go
: i: 4, WE ARE REQUESTING POA al AND WILL, ADVISE,

END OF bee

WH COMMENT: *Ref advised of pitch to wie recruited Cuban DGI :
agent, in San Salvador.

