104-10063-10295)

fvevy

1 prasem, py,

SsiFizD MESSASE T.
SECRET
iihen Filled In)

2

* 30 Sep IN 4 35626, ce

1. STATION WIAMI HAS BEEN TRYING UNSUCCESSFULLY FOR MANY

WEEKS TO IDENTIFY WHAT MAY BE TWO CUBAN ILLEGALS RESIDENT

IN THE UNITED STATES (NEW YORK, WASHINGTON AREA _AND/OR MIAMI).

THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AS FNUQUESADA

ROMAN AND FNU C E PE D/A. -@YSAGE-1 ALLEGEDLY HAS HAD DIRECT
CONTACT WITH QUESADA ROMAN BUT SEEMS KNOW LITTLE ABOUT DEPEDA.
WE ARE 90 PERCENT SURE THAT THE NAME QUESADA ROMAN IS AN ALIAS, AND

CEPEDA BEING AS COMMON AS IT IS LEAVES US NOWHERE. THERE IS

REASON TO BELIEVE THAT @SAGE-1 KNOWS THE TRUCIDENTITY OF

QUESADA, BUT SHE HAS REFUSED TO TELL US AND ADDITIONALLY HAS

PROVIDED CONFUSING AS WELL AS CONFLICTING INFORMATION ON HIM.

SORTING OUT (AYBAGE-1'S STATEMENTS ON QUESADA, WE BELIEVE SOME

OF THE FOLLOWING MAY BE TRUE.” TO‘WiT:
A. HE IS 35-4 YEARS OF AGE, DARK HAIR WHITE
SKIN, SLIM BUT STRONG. BUILD, HEIGHT APPARENTLY

5 FEET 8 TO 19 INCHES CAPPROX). MAY HAVE A BIRTHMARK

OR SCAR ON UPPER LEFT SIDE FOREHEAD. ON RIGHT SIDE

035!


14-00000

Tota COPIES _
SECRET  ueewvpe
* (When Filled In) Susenguy

aie ae= a Eile

—_—

a

LZ

A deren

een — “pent

724 S EC R. E T
OF NECK ‘np ‘SMALL BLUE PISCOLORATIONS oR SCARS - ;

: RESULTING FROM EXPLO: Tow oF A DEWNLITION DEVICE elie

4 VENEZUELA. “quésapa™ LLEGEDLY. A SABOTAGE ae

; DEWOLITIOH EXPER among: OTHER THINGS. was. ACTIVE , Hai pice
SOWET IME ‘DURING 6B TW SABOTAGE v VENEZUELAN om ig
FIELDS. DURING ove OPERATION THERE: was PREMATURE.

<EXPLOSION OF DE
SHRAPNEL FRAGHEI

PAGE 2 wiser ant

Ababa tata retains h Lene tar cneea

ITION DEVICE WHICH PLANTED © feces a
iH HIS: NECK WHICH STILL WORK TO THE SURFACE FROM

A “TINE To TIRE ai ARE EXTRACTED ‘

” Ba RE ALLEGEDLY SERVED. IN MEXICO SOMETIME |

* Durie THE PERIOD 63- 66 AND May “oR hay noT HAVE :

“BEEN IN THE EMBASSY. HE VAS DESCRIBED BY ‘Bebace- 1

“AS A SPECIALIST PROBABLY IN SABOTAGE, EXECUTIVE

ACTION, ETC. BUT ALSO. COULD BE A SPECIALIST VIS”

(7 AVIS THE “AMERICAN ‘DEPARTMENT © HE ALSO ALLEGEDLY

a TRAVELLED To PANAMA EIGHER LATE 63 OR EARLY 6A

* pROUND TRE TINE.

Aioeate ve ee we aero anne

“THE ‘PANAMA RIOTS, THIS, COULD
NEAR THAT HE MIGHT ‘HAVE BEEN CONNECTED WITH RICO
GAL a N WOW SERVING A. Shite SENTENCE IN pee



SECRET ..
= (When Filled In) 3
Fsuco  [_Jsvoren HEPRODUGTION OF THIG COFY PROHIBITED 7
i.

-PAGE 3 WH/MIAMT 12724S ECRET

"AROUND AS RELATING TO THIS PERSON, BUT WE BELIEVE

THIS MAY BE SNOW. THERE IS SOME REASON TO BELIEVE

- THE PERSON SHE DISCUSSED MAY BE ROGELIOR ODRI -

, & UE Z LOPEZ wb SERVED IN MEXICO ciTy DURING :

“THAT PERIOD AND. SPECIALIZED ON CENTRAL AMERICA. .

" ADDRESSEES WILL PROBABLY REMBER THAT ROGELIO
i “RODRIGUEZ WHO LNERGO DESCRIBES AS A HIGHLY COMPETENT
lL AND DANGEROUS CASE OFFICER, WAS PNGED OUT OF NEW
' YORK SOMETINE AGO IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOUTH AFRICAN
“. GIRL WHO WAS REPORTING ON THE DIPLOMATIC COLONY In
2 WASHINGTON. STATION MIAMI- ALSO NOTES THAT ABELARDO
CURBELO PARDON SERVED IN wexich ABOUT: THE
SAME TIME.

C. RE VENEZUELA: @SAGE-1 DESCRIBES HIM ONLY
< AS HAVING LIVED AS AN ILLEGAL IN VENEZUELA FOR i
SOME TIME AND SERVING SUCCESSFULLY AS A SABOTAGE
'+ TRAINER AND/OR IMPLEMENTOR OF SABOTAGE OPERATIONS.
SHE HAS SUGGESTED THAT HE WAS THERE DURING THE
Mi NOST ACTIVE PERIOD OF SABOTAGE, WHICH SHE RECALLS
"WASH DURING THE EARLY 6S. THIS NAY OR MAY NOT BE

aie ice ~ “Senet


14-00000

[ijasce ills

PAGE 4 WH/MIAMI 12724 SECRET

TRUE. THE PERSON IN QUESTION COULD JUST AS EASILY

HAVE BEEN CONNECTED WITH THE BRAVO GROUP IN LATE 6S.

MIAMI'S RECORDS OF SABOTAGE OPERATIONS IN VENEZUELA

PRIOR TO 1968 ARE INCOMPLETE. CARACAS, THEREFORE,

MAY BE ABLE TO ISOLATE TWO OR THREE PERSONS WHO

FIT THIS GENERAL CRITERIA FOR FURTHER INVESTIGATION.
D. @¥sace-1 ‘ALLEGES THAT QUESADA WAS IN NEW

YORK CITY AREA AND MET WITH HER DURING THE WEEK OF

13 SEPTEMBER. - IF THIS ACTUALLY HAPPENED, IT MIGHT : i
ELIMINATE ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ (DEPENDING UPON HIS :

2 PRESENT WHEREABOUTS) AS A PRIME CANDIDATE.

FOR HEADQUARTERS: "STATION MIAMI. WOULD APPRECIATE -
RECEIVING PICTURES OF THE CUBAN COUNTER-SURVEILLANCE
PERSON WHO APPARENTLY COVERED fWsaGE-1 DURING THE

E PERIOD ‘SHE DELIVERED A LETTER TO PONCHAYS
HOTEL. BELIEVE BOTH HEADQUARTERS ‘AND MIAMI SHOULD

STUDY HIM-AGAINST THE MUG BOOK.
3. REALIZE THE FOREGOING 1S MOST TENUOUS AND INCOMPLETE.
WILL APPRECIATE 5 HOWEVER, ANY ASSISTANCE YOU CAN GIVE US IN

: THIS IDENTIFICATION.

“42 FILE: "200-6-447/33 Be. oe

ik SECRET oe
SECRET
