402470078

(RETURN TO cla
Background’ Use On
,, BONet Reproduce

/AETRURK :
‘eam, 1 Nov/31 Dec 1965,

qe : :

Operation STEAMER

- ACTION REQUIRED/~ FYI

. UFGA-23937, After-Action Report,
——TITWVIIT, 24 Kov 63 a

B. UFCA-14990, After-Action Report, Operation AMTRUNK
YIIT, Si Mar 642° |” : ;

(72. UPGA-149968, “AMLABE Cache Recovery Plan, “30 war 64
3 si 1 .

: \

1. OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY :

A, During the period, the ANTRUNK couplex undervent
8 personnel revamping based for the most part upon the need for |
econcay ia combined operations. ANAGREE-1 was transferred g another
JMTAYE elemon AMTRUNK-13 and -22 vere transferred tc the 9 TYHRUEH
Program. The above tranafers were all effective 31 Dec $502 two new
MHADROM recruiter trainees, AMLUNY-2 ead ANTRUNK-24, were brought
wuApoard in Dec 65, As cov constituted, the AMTRUNK complex ta com-
posed of the folloving: AWICE-14, P/A; AWAKA~1, Team Leade
BNAROMA-2, Radop; AUTRUNK-7, Guide; and AMLUNT-2 and AMTRU 24 and
-21, MHAPRON recruiters. a

‘ 7y B. The "Bobby" affair (wee Paros 7 ee, thru 7 gg,

of Ref A) which was originally surfaced duriag Operation STRAMER VII/
{ VIII, 1-15 Oct 65, i# still being investigated. Thia unksown in~

dividual, identified only as "Bobby", is the person who wae supposed!
responsible for delivering the AMLASH cache (see Refa B and C)"back
to the United States”. This investigation bas been facilitated by
the arrival in the United Stetes of IDEN A, Bn internal AMTRUZK con-
tact mince mid 1962, ITEX A stated that he had never met “Bobby”
personally but received his ordere through AMTEUNK-18, another
{nternal asset (with waom JMWAVA bas oo communication). Accordiog
to IDEN A, “Bobby” and AMTRUNK-16 have bees in contact since sone

"Att: IDEX Sheet, usc

i Diatribetion
i (B= MUC watt, une
aan erseaenen re OT ratae ce rece ae eae eeu ittt Hiarsoquentiey

UPGA-24416 87 Jancary 1965 |

1O-6-84 VOT


CONTINUATION OF .

“Gime in mid-1964 whea he introduced

s DISPATCH

Nimgelt to AMTRUSK-18 te
dostiuctions (aef C).. IP:
IDs 'F id retrieved the CATES 8 thas
1964 and, Crow HH Ate dover sate” of the sctdeat, the
cache was pasced over to o toak “froe ‘outeide” is a rather pre
and protesaioeal sanner. 30 dition to this Teache recovery”,
TDEY A claine to bare partic tn Sige other eiaiiar © pet
tions” with 10eN ¥ and ANTE: 5 Garien ae aprrox las
Seriod from mid-106S to m1d-1053. “Alinoagh Tha A kas DY
: y “hobby” directiz, he nar provided several!
the Case Officer te sollowing Up.: ‘mere fe atno am exce
possibility that IDzs 2 vitl aizu, soos be -Lvavis:
‘Camertoca exo Siuce per heft Cy the . é
were sent to ANTRUNK-10 via S/# aad he in turn
AXTHIWE-11 who, ip turn, delivered then to AMTRUNK-15, ther: :
appears to be mone ralacioushtp betweon “Robby”. and AKTRONK=15.,
Other than AMTHUNE-18, this fa the only possible itak true: fa
eatabliched between the internal SMTRENE onetwork and “Bobby’
AMTEDKK-15 vas laprisoned 19 aid-Gctober G4 for reaxore unkoore :-
to JNWAVE and, according to. 107% A, be ds vow is a rebabilitatiee |
cap the location cr which Je vaknowe to LDN Az; Ae, stated abor:

the investigation 35 continviag 20d Headquartere-will to ap! fi
of the results when sone deft had Deen estadlished.

the AMLATH cache recotssy

itive conclusion

9, AMTRENK-19 and bie “arid) Case F
ofiicer, Leslie H. IENDRIQUS, vere bold tn aadrid during the period

‘QNTELYKLID appears to have decided te ‘cooperate fully with BUDARK
and the reaults 02 “to have, bean fraitful.

AMTRINE-19 hae used nis B/F channel t
OEVL link wiil soon be eetabliuhed.

C. Tvo méatiag batwee

a. OPERA PRNEER

Salaries (2 wos? RMECR ALS % 800,00 i
AMAGR SE = 1 00,00
AUAEA 1 650,00
AMTRUNKAT 560.60
AMTRUNKA13 600.00 ae
AMTRUNK=2t 600.09
ASTRURK-22 1008,00 1
AMAROMA-3 380.00.

‘ $ $460.60
Mileage - Xow Dec

ANIC? -14 $86.60 $ 185-40 . :
AWAEA-1 64.06 ‘ i :
108,40

eR.A8
$357.60 $381.80

739.50

317,54
8 6, 457,04 -

Misc bap

foiat

TadACh RES UTED

Mowe

4, Fis ey CT) PLANS

7 b. Commencing te earty Jansary 1886, AMLUNS+% ane -
ANTRLIL ATE, tbe Ley pee IAN yecruiterm, wil! bezia a tw so"
well worth Reatning ayole Gewisned to prepare {nem for tteoir sis
Sion. AX (se @una sims, tae vther ANTHEMS (eae wenbers will
farticipate ta tote Crelatag [or refreaher purpraes,

ste ere as Tees
1

se neee ¢

ar cue x dante



a ee a eee

FE eye om meenneennan

dest lagangtssnassnata>sianinationposegip™ pene) eu 38 °2iet See

°

pases een



IDeA. | Qsear DIAZ Jabiela-Garcta =| : ce
i Racees: it
IDEN BL Antonio DIAZ. Torres i
aCeadyaetese : :
SECRET
ate :

A

a
