# 104-10193-10171_1

## Page 1

104-10193-10171 .

DAlE

TO

542

124001 61

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

• DIRECTOR

FROSA & UMWAVE

03

ACTION, BELL 10 (BELL COPY SLOTTED AT 1930- 24 OCT.)

170 1 00, COP, 10/1, n S; 0c 6 3/4 y te

ROUTING

2

OCT 24 22022 61

PRIORITY...

PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 8739

J:SZIP/COMMO/NOTLOX

•FOLLOWING PASSED TO NOTLOX:

DOS CINCO "OMAR RPT OMAR CHA MONTY RPT MONTY CHA GERMAN RPT

GERMAN Y RPT Y LAZARO RPT LAZARO CMA NOS REUNIMOS POR VARIAS HORAS

DISCUTINENDO DIFERENIES DUDAS O RPT O INTERPRETACIONES. IL PUESTO DE

FRANCISCO COMO COORDINADOR. NACIONAL FUE SUSTITUIDO DESPUES DE CAER

PHESO POR DIRECTO NOMBRAMIENTO DE ARTIME RPT ARTIME DIVIDIENDU DICHAS

RESPONSABILIDADES ENTRE PEDRO PASO RPT PEDRO PABLO COMO COORDINADOR

NACIONAL CIVIL Y RPT Y UMAR RPI PEDRU PABLU ENTRO EMBAJADA. OÑAR

ENCARCELADO Y RPT Y DESPUES PARA EMBAJADA TAMBIEN. NECESADAD DE

REORGANIZAR MOVEMIENTO SIGNIFICABA QUE AMBUS SALIERAN EMBAJADA. PEDRO

PABLO RPT PEDRO PABLO NO QUISO SALIR EMBAJADA TRASPASANDO SU PARTE

CIVIL DE COORDINACION NACIONAL A RPT A OMAR TAMBIEN. ENTONCES OMAR

RPT OMAR YA CONO COORDINADOR NACIONAL GENERAL TENIA LOS PODERES REGLA-

MENTARIOS PARA REESTRUCTURAR DIRECCION NACIONAL. DESPUES OMAR RPT OMAR

TERMINAR ESA LABOR SALIO AFUERA CONMONTY RPT MONTY RESOLVER FUTURA

SITUACION GENERAL CONALIADOS Y RPT Y REGRESAR A RPT A CUBA: MIENTRAS

TANTO LAZARO RPT LAZARO FUE NOMINADO PORQUE HACIA FALTA ENESS MUNENTO

UNA CABEZA: ESTA DUALIDAD SE MANTENDRA MASTA QUE OMAR RPT OMAR E

RPT E LAZARO RPT LAZARU REGRESEN CUBA RPI CUBA Y SE DECIDA. MONTY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER IMAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ISSIFLED MESSAGE

SECRE

IN 11274

- PAGE _3

REGRESAÑA CUBA RPT CUSA PROXINO VIAJE Y RPT Y EXPLICARA DETALLES COM-

PLETOS A RPT A DIRECCION NACIONAL. MONTY RPT MONTY TOMAA POSICION

DE COORDINADOR MILITAR ALLA RPT ALLA SI SE ACEPTA. ENTRADA MIKE ROMEO

ROMEO RPT. NIKE ROMEO ROMEO DENTRO DEL CONSEJO DE MIRO CARDONA POR

GERMAN SERA EXPLICADU DEIALLADARENIE PUR MONTY. LAZARO CHA OMAR CHA

MONTY CHA GERMAN. *

it centrateliens, g.on manuel

no, Cores.

ENGLISH TRANSLATIONE Late

Ming onto - 85a646

perls startin

25 "WE, OMAR, MONTY, GERMAN AND LAZARO SAT DOWN FO

SEVERAL HOURS DISCUSSING VARIOUS DOUBTS OR INTERPRETATIONS.

FRAN-

CISCO'S POST AS NATIONAL COORDINATOR WAS FILLED AFTER THE LATTER'S

CAPTURE BY DIRECT NUMINATIUN BY ARIIME WHICH DIVIDED THOSE RESPONSI

BILITIES BETWEEN PEDRO PABLO AS NATIONAL CIVIL COORDINATOR AND OMAR

AS NATIONAL MILITARY COORDINATOR. AFTER THE INVASION PEDRO PABLO

ENTERED THE EMBASSY.. URAR WENT IU JAIL AND AFTERWARDS HE ALSO WENT.

TO AN EMBASSY. THE NEED TO REORGANIZE THE MOVEMENT CALLED FOR BOTH

MEN TO

LEAVE THE EMBASSY. PEDRO PABLO DID NOT WANT TO LEAVE THE

EMBASSY SO THAT MIS DUTIES AS CIVIL COORDINATOR WERE PASSED TO OMAR

ALSO. THUS OMAR NOW BEING A NATIONAL GENERAL CUURDINATOR HAD THE

STATUTORY FOWERS TO REORGANIZE THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE. WHEN OMAR

HAD FINISHED THIS JOB HE LEFT CUSA WITH MONTY IN ORDER TO RESOLVE THE

FUTURE GENERAL SITUATIUN WITH ALLIES AND THEN RETURN TO CUBA. IN THE

MEANT IME LAZARO WAS NOMINATED BECAUSE A HEAD WAS MISSING AT THAT TIME.

THIS DUALITY WILL PREVAIL UNTIL OVAR AND LAZARO RETURN TU CUBA AND A

DECISION IS MADE. MONTY WILL RETURY TU CUBA ON THE NEXI TRIP AND

WILL EXPLAIN THE FULL DETAILS TO THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE. NONTY VILL'

ASSUME THE POSITION OF MILITARY CÜURDINATUR OVER THERE IF HE IS

ACCEPTED. GERMAN'S ENTERING THE MAR INTO MIRO CARDUNA'S COUNCIL WILL

BE EXPLAINED 3Y SONTY IN DETAIL. LAZARO, OMAR, MUNIY, SERMAN."

CHEL

END OF MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

