# 104-10086-10279

## Page 1

1104-10086-10279

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Profict ZRRiFLE

REPRODUCTION

1. Edentificatin

_ Profeet ZRRiFLE is

to spot, levelop,

poor openstione. Apents will bs spotted in were sness,

miducing the Kited Sit, but witt pots for spentined

smity rescious will probably wet be wed in thei

countries of revilence: Present delopmental actuit, is

benig conducted in the WE and HE arpes, bust it

is unticipated that this will he extended to atter divisions

wear. The profect will be spented azanist thind country.

mitallatione and personne.

2. Objective: The agitive of this repet in the powerate,

I it code and apter materishes, in eccordauce with

reguinements levied on the Clantest tences, prime le

the Metone tent, agency. hire these requirements are

ruleit to fiquent revicion, no listing of targets would.

he waled for the durstion of the propect. specific

operations will he mounted on the bacis of need and

opportunity: Thie profect will he conductel by Finicine

D with assistauce from area diesions and statime as

a saturns REPRODUCTION

needed.

PROMBITED

3. Racepound: Du response to the incressing requirements

for the operational procurement of foreign code and cipler

materials, Dicion D in 1960 began the spottag of

REPRODUCtiOnt e a developmental astity Ironing the came

PROHIBITED

SECRET

PAGE

3 0f

43

COPY NO.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-period reguinemento from NSA becaue more refuel aud in

many respecto rare ructice: Becauce most stitise are

not equipped to conduct this type of aperstine and because

of the desiralility of complete, centralized control over this

entire effort, it was determied that Dision D, which is

in creet touch with NSA on proceement repunist, could

best conduct the actity. The tink spotting actints

has now aluauced for enough

ug from

the O1A citepary.t

REPRODUIGTHON

PROHIBITED

4...O Operatioual arse

(1) Persuel: 1P5 WiN is under writter

contract as a precipel apect, with the primary tacle of

spotting arent canditstes. Of fuin was finet contacted in

1958 throuple the

the dief of station, Lifebioung, in concuection wiste

an illegal rarestice operation into the United Astes. for

a perish of a year, and a half times contreted i t

sporadically by Cos, Icencbourg, in behelf of the

Bureau of Meresties. Hiles of this Bureau reflect

an ellent performance leg Quin, Du Arter 1960,

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

-SECRET

PAGE

COPY

NO.

4

43

---

## Page 3

14-00000

REPRODUCTION "

PROHIBITED

Qui am REPRODUCTION

* 7,200

Traul + ap e ROMBIT

ED

Q furin + otter agento 4 ageut candidated: 2,000

Pees for servies buy and

standles. of agento and

agent candidates :

2,000

Travel of staff emplayees t..

engazed in Zorifle actuite :

2,500

Hire of safehouses, automobiles

and otte, pectione epense:

1, 000

1 14.,200

Pay for apents on completion of joles?

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROIBITED

SECRET

PAGE

COPY NO

5 01.43

---

## Page 4

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

1) Legal, thiest mile, opentinal problems; patteel: non-ettret.

bilite,.

/ 566 (Group, Bankere proup, Thell) → require meet.

professie, proven operationally competent, ruthlers, stable,

Fenienced ope officine few sailable, able to conduct patient

tinesuana

harow?; No approace to ithe baut agencies.

b. Within Rubak, one focal jont for control,

search, trang, case officung, ets - DeCeittant,

in this focal part rusudatory, Di officall sherial?

c. Maç. react, cable commio for inocuse

cdiles auly; no restrictions on travel; porcilitate,

of ine-man overcess (Europe) antrol base with?

from start to finish.

c. Xo.

gauta.

REPRODUCTION

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

" tart agency Tracin

g. Use of alreal, tected cust (e:p.,

Markel in the rearch.

SEGRET

6

UULd310

43

PAGE

COPY NO..

---

## Page 5

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

pass as forciquers.

4 Beckmail

slations.

a. Do Guerica cities er recilento or

people who wer ottawed as, weis.

I No chain AR

EPNODUCTOR

- person to

d: Exclude arpanizatio

1' ninels, there.

w/recond of emerts, these if metebilit, of purpre

_ as eximinals.

e. Haffers nuidued -celetizio.

5. Couer: feloning cliculd victude pression for

pillaming to or Gecks in care of tilour,

s. Uhe rshod, mho has never lect of mccals, others

will oat lee aware of pitfalls or susier factors such

as freehom to traud, wanted listi, eto.

→ 4 Hesuld have ploug 201 in R. to hachstop this, all

documents the in forged t backdated, should look ise

a CE file:

.. Pill we REPRODUCTION.

to tilverthorre..

PROHIBITED

Keeping of files.

SEGRET.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

• PAGE

COPY NO.

1 01

43

---

## Page 6

14-00000.

Fee RETITION

Legal; operational t ethic israle jungle

Marimum security + within Rubar

does tiraqias our buco?). Minitetin on muler este

derhe for encipherip I deciplering

brise if tauvide alectice.

3) Tue foed prit for resoch, conto, tracing, car-offer + PA.

selection. Complete

DDP authorite in this focel pust manatory,.

Overseas one-man

control bace withs sun (row tator conners

3) Every openitive to

He mixith

coe-officered; no sille-shunt

PA'r.

REPRODUCTION.

or.

PROHIBI

for devict teton;.

pocilly for apprade to foreigu elemento..

No criminal

who tainted bey use.

hey sunttes American agency. Ice of

I care officers who ca

a pau er foriquere- and tinted.

official reference,

s) No chair of

immections peritting blackmail.

6) Don't meet auy selecter in horce tenetory..

7) Gusid Gausion, us foreign officisle with all porcililet,

been ecaprried..

PROHIBITED

3) Planing elisild include prostion for blewing

toviets (on Gechs) is sae of blour:

'if absue escential.

9) Exclude orprization omicals, there with second of.

invest, there who hau ergaged i send tope of reine

REPRODUCTION.

PROHIBITED

SECRET

0003312

PAGE

8

, of

COPY NO.

43

---

## Page 7

14-00000

REPRODUCTION!

PROHIBITED

could lich its

18) Corsicaus nets

Mafia

11) Tomer recitance percound.

offer prechilitia, (Des

13) Period of tect

selecter..

weillauce, ets= for eac

expererice..

14) Silve thone A

stable in Per

PROHIBITED

is) What and

limits on team or ridintics set

selectel? No "tan" until seat, to go

167 Douge of stardhip,

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

REPRODUCTON

PROHIBITED

0J03313

PAGE

COPY

-201÷

43

: NO

---

## Page 8

14-00000

ed

7 - 25% -

Exe FREDR

ODUCTION

arca

"The magic button

TED

A1S 201 cover

cution - Bautite.

ho stor

Kalile

/ Contradenteur

RODUCTION U-2

p apply brakes PROHIBITED

Lost

sort heyond lost reads

e comfession a mahner. -

= El Benepoctor »

Lenfara

austating machines" - 1LE

oxic

rounds piers

sherous - (rumth cs)

matteria -

REPRODUCTIGN

AS — FanfompROMIBITED

Fess neva meriter

I. Selet proper ofa to resna

2. Place a cover

3. Securt, RulerSEGRET

2ver a 2

_B- WITN-AS-

REPRODITC

leves

sid - Resera.

PROHIBITED

PAGE

10

COPY

NO.

0f

• 43

0U03314

---

## Page 9

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

?. no project a fo PROMITED

except fer lauer.

- Атире одни - 3.

(Mankel)?-

testel: 1500-prom AB.

wach stat

Mal. AL

PROHIBITED

uhera

me can spal -

11. case officenciag

ia comer pile create de proc

actiois

dre lilared -

Ed Veut - Remenher

REPRODUCTION

PROMOBITED

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0J03315

11

PAGE

COPY

NO.

43

of

---

