to4-10171-10013f

Grief of Station, Noa
apa
ro
ACTION 4 Por your inferant lon
: Treassitted heravith are Ch
dn index ie attached,
‘
Attacheeatss” (Henndth)
+ CdeLig thea 1A9, 1 oa,
CUH-156 (1 copy)
CAA Index, in duplicate
_ Mstribation:

3. TM, watts. (npr)

© _OTRSE/perat tenal—Trereaittal of CAS Reports
MOUS BUTE
EXPUSECS, -UFGA 3787, 16 bpetd isé2

r

Feperte, mobors 134 thrangh 149, ‘and 156,

BO oF bISParcH

ETURN TO CIA:
ites und Use
Do Not!



ob

Cuief, Task Forec/W
Catef of Stetion, SHHAVE .

Operational/s<R0cE
DKE, Scatiago ce Duba

ATTRTIon RAaoreD: R/eucnas/AMUE. Oy ane
April 1982,
SJ

1. &
12) April
iterviewed:

2. Source cold that curing the revelutica he'w'é a member of the
DR in the Univeraity oF licbens. After the revolution he went to the
University of Orimie, Santiago dc Cuba, on! eventually becene the DRE
chief for the city. In regerd to bis Zermer ON association he had no
operations! lea‘s, claiming thot all contact vith TR menbers ‘terminated
in 1959; and he knew no one who attained any stature in the Cestro

Governnent.

3. As ERD chicf for Santiago, the source claimed that he ha 50
menbera who he concidered well organized and capable of any type of
action. He caid that there vere, and are, other nenber, but he docs *
not consider thea in the some category with the 0 who are organized. into
celle. lic cata cach celi has ninc nen. There are four cella: aoe
University of Qriente and tvo in the atgh school.

hk, He coda that he left Santiago in March 1962 ané turned the DRE
over to his deputy. He then vent to Fabena ea! informed the DRE leader-
ship thet the second in camand hai teken over and ho wes told that
Hobana vould initiate contec: with the new leater. “ (ldte: Since close
relations ere maintained by the MMAVE Statioa end the DRE, no attempt
was made to press the source for nase and sidresses, etc+, o8 this in~
formation can be obtained in subsequent outsize cebriefings. The JMYAVS
Officer respeasible for the DRE operational matters vas informed’of the
source's errival and processing.)

5. Source said thet at the tine he left Seatiago, th
the Catholic student organization ves trying to make contest
DRE and he believes that by this tine this ccatact.has been nod
sola thet. the DRE menber who wes folloving this aatter, and who. vould
follow through, was @ blind person. : i

6. Listing the: erns and supplies in the possession of the. DRE in
Santiago, the source said that it hes sbout 5-0 pouncs of plastic remain-
ing out of a shiprent of 20 pounds vhich was recefved fron_the DRE in
Habana. Ee sold the DRE in Sentiago placed boxds in places where the
explosion would not injure eayone. As fer as arms are concerned the
source sata that the DRE in Santiago has tea '§ caliber pistols; five
38 caliter pistols; one M-3j and one Tox’ say

7. The source furnished the following NUIVEE-type information:



WIE province to the DRE neaber he left tn charge of Santiago DIE (

ron
a

ue*
cas pee letter, in turn, fs to forvard the {nforsution to the States
L

@. Me catd that. his fotier is in Jail ia Puerto Bontato,
and that in orcer to try and get bin free, the cource went to sce Kajor
Delarnino "Anibal" Castilla, the chief of training for the Patna Soriano
Military Eacasynent, whom he knew fron their daya in the Santiogo High
School. Source =ade his plea eh: “Anibal” told hin that before he could
act upon it, he would have to telx to the source for five hours in order
to.cetermine his political orientation. The source replied thatihe:
not cone to talk politics but to plicad for his father. :.."{nibal”
answered that he would think ebout it and call the. source one vay or
another, but he never called. Source thought that this otory cdeguate=
ly denonstrated the (Commmist) political orientation of "Anibal.

bd. The brother of “Anibal” (pera 6n above) to “Dertico”
Costilla, first none possibly Alberto. Te resigned froa the arny and
ie now living in Santiego, but the source is not clear on "Bertico's”
political orientation. :

wi
c. Flectra Fernentez, the wife of Mendes Caainehe (the

Sontiego G-2 chief), is no longer the civil hea’ (contssfonedo) ‘of
Santiago. She to now the preaicent of the Federecion de Itujurea Cubanas.,

@. The scuree hes giver a complete military map of. Orient

aobove). Information 1s passed fron Santiago to the DNS in Habana’

e. Source said that his contacts wio work in Nicaro report -
that the Nicaro-Mayori Arriba ares is restricted and thet unknown types’
of nilitary installations ore being constructed.

; f. The foreign instructors in the University of Orienté con-~
sist of Csechs and Chileanc., Tie Czechs have started a nev medical
seliool in the university and the Citleans. have taken over the ;
Adninistration Courses. fs *



SECRET

ATTACHONT TO UPCA-J856 Dated 16 April 62

a cua 134s Arturo Ins fod quest 012 895 797. «OO TAM = 385)
cy ws Jorge rhatecrdh Comes: A 12 AY5.308 (SSE DSA = E/L) 2
CHA.1361 Onell Julien Garett Gonsatens. A 12 495 °@17, (SIE Pak © 3886/8)
CKA'137¢ Jose Antonto Sagumy Cassi A 12 895 90) (ss UFaA = SBD).
CHA 1981 Raul Sanches Rodriquens A12°875 7% | (SEE Tran = 386/e)
CEA 1391. Justine Pelayo Guneto Peet Poguerst A 12 495 872 (SER UrabeyS6S)
CRA 1401, Racon Aoneg A 12°95 #41 (SEE TEAL = ISSA). i
CHA Ut, Ketlto Alejaniro Apressaghar 412-995 266 (GERM = SMAI)
CKA 1421 “Hector do 1a -Pegamots Puenteet A 22 490 361 (SEE UPUA = 3805/3)
CEA 3s Manuel Qfota-Cestidlgs A 12 495 cob. (Sse UF « BL6/P
EXA Lahr Benigno Jortanottemantes: A 126/589 (S82 uraa = 984/10).
CUA 1451 Antonio Toais Goazales Crespor A 22 $95 929 (SEL UPOA © 33K6AL
(XA Uhr Alejandro Profirio Cansghg Conzales: A 12 695.939 (SSS UFAL © JS4/iz)
(KA WI Joaquin Antonte Jsmsoe Jtnenoat A 12 475 93) (SEE UFO = 38/9)
GEA LbBr, Antonto Cy Samper harrerot” A 12.903 02% (SEE UPAA = 38B6/Lb)
XA 1491 Donadd Aprwecith Boulet: A 12903 OL {asx UPGA ~ 38R615)
CHA 1561 Alberto. Homanten Doler “A 12 295 949 (sue Trak = 984/16)

SECRET
