# 104-10075-10113

## Page 1

104-10075-10113

TO: DIRECTOR

jAiAVE

ACTIONS:

INFO:

FA CI CA/PES

calo 4,

sfers,

00/1,

TDOS

22 NOV 63 03087 IN 6682

SEGRET 212217Z

DIR INFO SDOM SJAN CITF WAVE 7975

INTEL DYVOUR IMPALM

05

SUPDATA: ZRUAICO."

AMCOROTHY-I

AJ

PROTECT TRUE NAMO

MERE

CHANNEL FROM

LOPS SFEURITY

DESCRIPTION

TRAVELED SUAN

FROM BOSCH.

RID:

ION INVITATION

INDEX.

FILEL: 2122172 - REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAi

CONTROLLED DISSEM COUNTRY:: DUMINICAN REFUOLIL

SUBJECTS PLANS DE FORMER DOMINIÇAN PRESIDENT JUAN BOSGH Y GAVINO

0011 12 - 16 NOV 63 PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (19 NOV 63) UFG 4IED

SOURCE: A LATIN AMERICAN LEFTIST WHO HAS BEEN A CLOSE ASSOCIATE

OF JUAN BOSCH FOR A NUMBER UF, TEARS AND WHO IS TAUSTED BY BOSCH

AND MEMERS OF MIS ADMINISTRATION.

SOURCE IS A TRAINED REPORTER

AND MIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN RELLABLE IN THE PAST.

SOURCE VISITED

LAN BOSCH AT THIS HOME IN AGUAS SUERAS, FUERTO RICO, FRUM 12-16

NOV 63-

AI THE ACTION CONE

TDC

PRECEDENC!

D VT

DATE UISTIINUTED

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Onty

DoidiuReproduce

10791

SECRE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM,

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGINCY

latormation.

CONFIDENTIAL

EMNIFICATION - LISSEMINATION CONTROLS

Pot 10. WB6.10x!

• COUNTRY.

SUBJECT

HE REPORT.NO. : TOCS

"DATE DISTR.

¡ PRECEDENCE

RÉFERENCES

DATE OF

ALACE &

. *+

6602?

THen UNEVALUATED are

A/PHONE S1 C0NT0

SOURCE

FORMER DOMINICAN PRESIDENT JUAN BOSCH Y

CAVINO HAS GIYEN UP HOST DE PETE MINO TO THE DOMINICADI REFUGLIE

ANO IS PLANNING TO RETIRE FROM POLITICS AND MOVE TO MIAMI, FLORIDA.

2. BOSCH TOLO A CLOSS FRIEND THAT HE (GOSCH) HAS BECO

INVOLVED IN SEVERAL SURINESS VENTURES MHICH ARE STILL UNDER

CONSIDERATION. HE MAY ASGEPT A RECENT OFFER MADE BY A MOTION

PICTURE STUDIO TO TIDAT

S$ BOOX "LA VIDA DE DAVID" ("THE LIFE OF

DAVID") BOSCH ALSO HAS UNDER CONSIDERATION PLANS TO GIVE A SERIES

OF LECTURES AT COLLEGES DO UNTVERSITIES IN THE UNITED STATES.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISS

MON CUNTIONS

TDCS

BOSCH REVEALED THAT HE WAS NOT ENJOYINO A CLOSE

RELATIONSHIP WITH PUERTO RICAN GOVERNOR LUIS MUNOZ

MARIN. BOSCH SAID HE BELIEVEO THAT MUNOZ HAD FOUND IT NECESSARY,

FOR POLITICAL REASONS, TO REFRAIN FROM SUCH A FRIENESHIP.

( SOURCE COMMENT: MANY PUERTO RICANS CONSIDER BOSCH TO BE A

COMMUNIST AND THEREFORE TAKE A DIM VIEW OF THEIR GOVERNOR

EVOVING A FRIENOSHIP WITH BOSCH.)

4. FIELD DISSEME NONE,

60722

---

