# 104-10107-10086

## Page 1

104-10107-10086

SEBNET

EYES ONLY

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

30 January 1969

MEMORANDUM

03

1. Mr. Papich communicated by telephone at 10:00 a.m.:

The New York office of the FBI has learned

informally from an Assistant District Attorney

(unidentified) on Hogan's staff that the New York

District Attorney has received a complaint

against Subject for absconding with funds received

from negligence cases. The allegation is that

Subject converted the settlements to his own use,

did not pay them--less his own fees- to the clients

concerned. The complainant or complatnanta and

the lawyer or spokesman for them are not identified.

It is added, however, that whoever made the com-

plaint to the New York Diatrict Attorney alao

pecified that there was reason to belleve that

Subject was connected with a U.S. Agency. If this

was so, it was further indicated, complainante

would be willing to discuss the situation.

2. These are all of the details that Sam han received over the

telephone from New York, I asked him specifically for the identification.

If the FBI could make it--of the attorney or attorneys who made the

complaint to the New York District Attorney's office.

3. There was nothing in this communication to relate Subject's

case with the Itkin matter. However, it is clear that the allegation made

against Subject is identical with a large number that have been of interest

to the New York District Attorney in connection with Itkin.

EYES ONLY

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

---

