# 104-10215-10181

## Page 1

104-10215-10181

Sin:

RANSMITTAL

OF

TOCS INFORMATION REPORY

CLASSIFICATION

ORIG.

UNIT

112

ROUTING

SECRET

EXY.

-SEP I

122

5547

0 1 263

CONFRMATION SeRTeLber 1963

SAS 11

INFORMATION COPIES

TDCS -3/558,848

SECF.

CI/OPS 2, CI/IG, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IW, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS,

WE 4,

WH 6,

DATE DISTRIBUTED

SR

11 September 1963

PRECEDENCE

DISSEMINATION

XI ROUTINE

SAS/R

_3, SAS/SI| 1]

BASED ON (FLD. EPI., PROS.)

SAS/InE 2 SAS/WAYE

SAS/EOB 1 SAS/SO/HH,

HH/PACY 1

CI/SPG

SR/RP

1

2

WE/5/R

WE/MADR 2

LGRE-0708

(IN-17547)

NP (AMLASH)

SAS/CI

Llaison

SAS/MOB

EVALUATIÓN

REQUESTED

STATE

ARMY

OF

NAVY

AIR

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

NO FOREICH DISSE

RECONMEND FOR EXO

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MHEN FILLED DV)

19-82 18-8 OESOUINI PERMOUE ENNTIDAS

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

RELEAS!

COPY

SAS/Intel

SmaeK king

(05-89-66-45)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Thie

material contains intormation

atlecting

784.

transmission or corelation

of stati

At to otta do a united Sad rio a bini do, o Espronago Lame, Pera 18: USC sore

CLASSIRICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY CUBA/USSR

SUBJECT

1. INFORMATION ON SOVIET MILITARY

PERSONNEL IN CUBA

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/558,848

DATE DISTR. 11 SEPTEMBER 1963

2.

TRAINING OF CUBAN MILITARY PER-

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

SONNEL

DATE OF

INFO.

EARLI SEPTEMBER 1963

REFERENCES

D-AC6-03298

IN-17547

PLACE &

DATE ACO. (11 SEPTEMBER 1963)

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOUACE

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

A HIGH-RANKING CUBAN MILITARY OFFICER WEO HAS BEEN ON ACTIVE DUTY

FOR. THE PAST TEN MONTHS AND WHO HAS GOOD CONNECTIONS AMONG PROVI

NENT CUBAN OFFICIALS. TO DATE, SOURCE'S RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN

ESTABLISSED.

1. AS OF EARLY SEPTEMBER 1963 THE SOVIET PERSONNEL IN CUBA

COULD BE DIVIDED INTO TWO GENERAL CATEGORIES:

(A) SOVIET MILITARY UNITS WHICH MAN SURFACE-TO-AIR (SAM)

SITES, CRUISE MISSILE SITES, AND RADAR AND COMMUNICATIONS SITES.

TRESE UNITS ARE COMPOSED ENTIRELY OF SOVIET PERSONNEL, INCLUDING

MECHANICS AND SECURITY GUARDS. THEY DO NOT FRATEENIZE WITH

CUBANS AND LIVE IN THEIR OWN CAMPS AND AREAS.

• (B) HIGHBR-CALIBER TECHNICIANS AND OFFICERS WHO TRAIN

CUBANS AND ACT AS ADVISERS DOWN TO AND INCLUDING DIVISION LEVEL

IN THE REBEL ARNT. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: SOURCE HAS NO

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CROUS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DIA

ARMY/ACSI HAVY

STATE/DIR

REPCINCLANT

SCS SECORE MSA MIE XANX JUSTA

oCt ONE

TREASURY

DDI

ocA

ORR

XiX!

00

FBI

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

PORM

1K6 OBSOLETE FREVIOUS EDITIONE.

(23-299

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLASSIFICATIONI - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN -17547

TDCS -3/558,848

PAGE 2

CONFIRMED INFORMATION CONCERNING THE NUMBER OF SOVIETS IN CUBA.

SOME ARE LEAVING BUT SOME ARE ALSO ARRIVING. SOURCE IS NOT AWARE

O7 ANY SOVIET INFANTRY OR ARMORED COMBAT UNITS PRESENTLY IN CUBA.

HE STATED THAT ANY UNITS WHICH MAY HAVE FITTED THIS CATEGORY LEFT

WITH THE IR3M'S IN NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER 1962. HE IS CERTAIN THAT

ALL IRBM'S AND BOMBERS HAVE BEEN TAKEN OUT.)

2. CASTRO CONTINUES TO BE UNHAPPY WITH THE SOVIETS AND WILL

NEVER FORGET THE TREATMENT HE RECEIVED FROM THEM IN THE FALL OF 1962.

CASTRO IS MUCH CLOSER TO THE CHINESE LINE BUT REALIZES HE CANNOT

EXIST WITHOUT SOVIET AID. HE INSISTS THAT THE CUBANS BE TRAINED

AND ASSUME CONTROL OF ALL SOVIET EQUIPMENT IN CUBA. BECAUSE CASTRO

BECOMES ENRAGED OVER BEING CALLED ANYONE'S STOOGE AND FEELS SO

STRONGLY AND PROUD OF THE INDEPENDENT POSITION HE HAS TAKEN, SUCH

AS NOT AUTHORIZING GROUND INSPECTION AND NOT SIGNING THE PARTIAL

TEST BAN TREATY, IT IS BELIEVED THAT HE WILL INSIST THAT THE SOVIETS

LEAVE WHEN THE CUBANS ARE TRAINED AND CAN HANDLE THE EQUIPMENT.

3. RIC-29 PILOTS HAVE BEEN TRATNED IN BOTH THE SOVIET UNION

AND CHINA, SOME, SUCH AS PRENDES AND VERONITA" (SIC), RECEIVED

MIG-21 TRAINING EARLY IN CUBA AND MORE PILOTS ARE PRESENTLS TRAINING

IN CUBA. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: PRENDES IS PROBABLY CAPTAIN ALVARO

PREDES QUINTANA; VERONITA IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH CAPTAIN ENRIQUE

VARONA.) THE MIG-21'S ARE CONTROLLED BY THE CUBANS, BUT THE SOVIETS

REMAIN AS ADVISERS.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(15-207-44-877

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CONTINUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 4

POKA 84-4

#-43

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLE

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN -17547

TDCS 3/558,848

PAGE 3

4. THE KOMAR VESSELS ARE CONTROLLED AND MANNED BY THE CUBANS

WITH SOVIET ADVISERS.

5. THE CUBANS ARE BEING TRAINED TO HANDLE THE CRUISE MISSILES.

(HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: SOURCE IS NOT CERTAIN BUT BELIEVES THAT THE

CRUISE MISSILES ARE ALREADY UNDER CUBAN CONTROL. )

6. THE CUBANS ARE NOK RECEIVING CLASSROOM INSTRUCTION IN THE

OPERATION OF SAM'S IN PINAR DEL RIO. THE SAM'S ARE STILL UNDER

SOVIET CONTROL.

7. THE CUBANS ARE ALSO RECEIVING COMMUNICATIONS AND RADAR

TRAINING. CASTRO HAS TAKEN ENGINEERING STUDENTS OUT OF THE UNIVER

SITY OF HABANA FOR TRAINING, WHICH IS INDICATIVE OF THE TI-ORTANCE

HE ATTACHES TO THE TRAINING OF CUBANS AND THEIR ASSUMING CONTROL.

8. THE CUBAN ARMY IS ORGANIZING AN ARMORED DIVISION WHICH

WILL BE UNDER THE COUMAND OF MAJOR ASEVEDO. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH ROGELIO ACEVEDO GONZALEZ WHO WAS PROMOTED

TO MAJOR IN EARLY JANUARY 1963.) NEW TANKS WITH INFRARED FIRING

DEVICES HAVE ARRIVED IN CUBA WITHIN THE PAST THREE TO FOUR MONTHS.

IT IS ASSUMED THAT THESE TANKS AÑE FOR THIS DIVISION.

9. NO SOVIET TROOPS HAVE PARTICIPATED OR ARE PARTICIPATING IN

THE CUBAN ARMY ANTI-INSURGENT OPERATIONS IN THE MOUNTAINS. REGULAR

ARHY DIVISIONS ARE PERMANENTLY STATIONED AT CAMPS THROUGHOUT THE

ISLAND, AND MILITIA DIVISIONS ARE ORGANIZED OR ACTIVATED AS THE NEED

ARISES.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROL

3= DoC-RET

I7O FOREIGN DISSEN

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

AFGA, 7-63

(75-20-10-871

CONTINUATION OF TDES INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 5

CLASSEICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

10. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO.

TDCS -3/558,848

IN- 17547

PAGE 4

END OF MESSAGE

3-6a

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-

.. CONTINUATION OF TDES INFORMATION REPORT

ACE 2-41

(13-20-46-177

---

