# 104-10308-10123

## Page 1

104-10308-10123

ent.

CLASSINED MLSSAGE

DATE

*AUG 63

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM : UNWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8

32

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

INFO :

(COPY ISSUED TO IW AT 2135 1 AUG DO

SOD 6, cA 2,

CA/O 4, C1, CO/OPS, C1/I0 2, F1, F1/D, FI/INT, IW,

DD/1, AD/CI 2, AD/NE, RF 2.

2

3

Rpt

ROUTING

41

5

6

AUG 2 5$55% 63

PRIORITY

IN 91617

TDCS

PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 2086

INTEL TYPIC

PoSSiBLy AMFAUNA-1?

SUPDATA: SOURCE AMAALF-2. SUBJ-SOURCE IS UNIDENTIFIED.

AMFAUNA-I RECEIVED A MESSAGE RECENTLY WHICH MENTIONED

POSSIBLE ATTEMPT TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL INVOLVING 5 MEN.

APPROVAL OF

SOURCE DESCRIPTION USED BELOW REQUESIED. NO WAVE

TRACES

RID: NO INDEX. FILED $I23N9L

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM

SUBJ: ASSASSINATION OF FIDEL CASTRO RUZ PLANNED

DOI: 23 JULY 1963

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (1 AUG 63)

UFG 3321

SOURCE: A LATIN AMERICAN DIPLOMAT WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS NOT

BEEN ESTABLISHED.

N COMMENT:

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED

TH PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING

RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT..

IDCS

PRECEDENCI

ROUTINE

PRICFIT:

ELEASING IWO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED

F:

L.

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

•RCUP

«CIUDED FROM AUTOMATI

DOINGRADING AID

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

LUEIEGRAMIINFIRMATION REPERIT LEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

788 and

contains information allecting

transmission or revelation of

SECRET

(When Flled Inj.

0l the Espronage lame, Pi. ii, USE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

REPORT NO. TDCS

DATE DISTR.

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

IN

91617

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS. IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. ON 23 JULY 1963 AN UNIDENTIFIED INDIVIDUAL SAID HE WAS

RAISING MONEY FOR THE PURCHASE OF MORE DYNAMITE TO USE IN THE

ASSASSINATION OF FIDEL CASTRO RUZ. HE SAID HE WAS ONE OF SIX

MEN PLANNING TO KILL FIDEL CASTRO RUZ. THE LEADER 1S

(FALD, FORMERLY AN OFFICIAL OF THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT.

BELIEVES HE WILL DIE OF CANCER WITHIN A YEAR. THE MEN HAVE SECURED

A SAND TRUCK AND HAVE FILLED IT WITH SCRAP IRON AND DYNAMITE

COVERED BY BOARDS WHICH ARE COVERED BY SAND.

2. ORIGINALLY THE MEN. PLANNED TO PLACE THE SAND TRUCK ON A

SIDE STREET RUNNING INTO THE MAIN STREET ALONG WHICH IT WAS

KNOWN THAT FIDEL WOULD DRIVE TO THE 26 JULY CEREMONIES. HOWEVER.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

GROUP I

domprading one

derlosaif.ea..on

STATECINA

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY

SECDEF NSA

A1D

USIA OCI

ORR 001/

00

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRA/N

FORM

10-64

1K

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

IN

SECRET

(When Filled In)

TDCS

PAGE

SINCE WOMEN AND CHILDREN WOULD BE KILLED WHEN THE TRUCK WAS

DRIVEN FROM THE SIDE STREET THROUGH THRONGS OF ONLOOKERS AND INTO

THE PATH OF FIDEL'S CAR, THAT PLAN WAS DROPPED. AT AN UNSPECIFIED

FUTURE TIME

PLANS TO STAY WITH THE TRUCK AND TRIGGER THE

EXPLOSION WHEN FIDEL CASTRO GOES BY. THE OTHER FIVE PERSONS

WILL CLOSE IN AND SHOOT FIDEL CASTRO RUZ IF HE IS NOT KILLED BY

THE EXPLOSION.

3.: FIELD DISSEM: STATE (MIAMI )

91617

END DE MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - GISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

SECE.

...

---

