104-10087-10130 7 a

”

INDEX SEARCH AND 201 CONSOLIDATION YEC¥EST

SECRET
*Y HOLMES RUSSELL B
CI/EXO" : 204921
— EXT. 1253 ‘ TUBE CTS —
SECRET £2 IMPDET CL BY 004108

1P/F1 CONTROL NO.

08 SEP_677

2 SEP ie

{

To INITIALS REQUESTER’S NOTES
NO. OF REFERENCES ORDERED [THIS REQUEST REFERS TO
1P/ INDEX 184003 RAY (Doe. Ref.)

SEARCH INSTRUCTIONS (TO IP/IN)

MARTINO

IP/FILES
REQUESTER
| ipyRs
i
boon

| Somo refereuces have Pas

detached and ordered

you fram IP/ARD, Ga50

SUBJECT OF INDEX SEARCH

SURNAME GIVEN NAMES

John

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE SEARCHED

201 NO.(IF KNOWN

201-

+ ALIASES

DATE OF BIRTH .- [PLACE OF BIRTH

RESULTS OF 1P/ INDEX SEARCH

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, CP erehip, 1. S.

affiliations, etc.)

CITIZENSHIP

INSTRUCTIONS FOR: REQUESTERS

NO RECORDS IDENTIFIABLE WITH SUBJECT

SUBNAME NOT FOUND IN FILES

THERE ARE OTHER INDICES THAT YOU SHOULD CONSIDER.
SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES AND
201 CONSOLIDATION INSTRUCTIONS.

TO ORDER DOCUMENTS:

4 INDEX RECORDS ATTACHED ©

THERE ARE___._ RECORDS_OF WHICH *
ARE _FNU*S WHICH MAY PERTAIN TO THE SUBJECT OF
THIS SEARCH; THESE MAY BE REVIEWED IN IP/IN.

1+ REVIEW INDEX RECORDS.

2. DRAW GREEN DIAGONAL LINE ACROSS ITEMS YOU DO
NOT WANT.

3. FORWARD TO 1P/FILES.

TO EDIT THE INDEX RECORDS

o ie

REQUEST NOL/DATE/TIME

Jbl 4 Teale

WS77SEP-2 ANE: 28

Use previous
EDITEONS

‘smu 362

\

SECRET

AFTER RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS, EDIT THE INDEX RECORD
ACCORDING TO DOI 70-19,

1. TO DESTROY INDEX RECORD: MARK THE INDEX RECORD WITH
A GREEN D, AND CITE THE REASON.

TO MAKE CORRECTIONS/ADDITIONS: ENTER: THE CHANGES ON
THE INDEX RECORD IN GREEN INK.

(FEORWARD TO 1P/RMS VIA YOUR RECORDS OFFICER

201 CONSOLIDATION
INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

SIDE. i

020372

2, IMPDET CL. BY: 007622 (48-38)



-° SECRET ei 7

(See D0! 70-20).

201 CONSOLIDATION INSTRUCTIONS

1.° IF SUBJECT HAS A 201 FILE, SEND THIS FORM TO IP/RMS WITH THE INDEX RECORDS
MARKED IN GREEN TO REFLECT THE CONSOLIDATION ACTION TAKEN. (Documents
should then be placed in the 201, by the Researcher).

2. WHEN SUBJECT HAS NO 201 FILE, BUT MEETS THE REQUIREMENT FOR OPENING A 201
FILE, SEND THIS FORM TO IP/RMS WITH:

A. A COMPLETED FORM 831.

B. ALL PERTINENT DOCUMENTS, EXTRACTS, AND PROPERLY EDITED RECORDS FOR
CONSOLIDATION OF THE FILE BY 1P/RMS.

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES: REQUESTER SHOULD ALSO CONSIDER TRACING THE FOLLOWING SOURCES WHICH ARE NOT

SEARCHED BY_IP/INDEX (SEE NAME TRACE HANDBOOK).
DATE DATE
REQUESTED] RECEIVED

SOURCE

DATE
RECEIVED

DATE
SOURCE REQUESTED

+
20 _AREA DESKS CENTRAL REFERENCE SERVICE

CIA LIBRARY
OFFICE OF SECURITY
OFFICE OF MEDICAL SERVICES

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION

IP/ARCHIVES
COMINT NAME CHECK
SB BIOGRAPHICS BRANCH
TRAVEL PROGRAMS

NAME OF BEARER FILE/OTS
CTA APPLICANTS FILE/OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

DEFENSE CENTRAL INDEX
CENTRAL REGISTRY - EUROPE
Fer

1 @ NS

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECRET SERVICE

DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCY

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES GROUP-SS/IL (FTU)
COVER AND COMMERCIAL STAFF

OPeRA- | RESERVE OFFICERS

TIONS
| starr | INTERAGENCY SOURCE REG.
‘oh OPERATIONS: CAPTURED GERMAN DOCUMENTS:

E/6 PROGRAM
WH SUBVERSIVES PROGRAM

E

REMARKS

8S OINA S- 132 110!
SECRET /



13-00000

HEY UF G A+ 4345-——-
“TB aHAR SS ne SEE- APERTURE CARDS A AFERCRED~——

lem eet ten ae —
£G-HAR-64-—O5 08. 33, 3G -—-- co .



: REVIEW INDEX RECORDS.

: i JOT WANT.
THERE RECORDS “OF waicn , MOT be
ARE FNU's WATER WAY PERTAIN TO THE SUBJECT OF. + FORWARD To wreniés.'

THIS SEARCH: (THESE MAY -BE REVIEWED. IN IP/IN. ©, : TO EDIT THE INDEX RECORDS”

APTER RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS ;* ED
ACCORDING TO DOF 70-19.
Js To Degtaoy IMOEX RECORD: MARK THE INDEX RECORD.WITH
‘A GREEN D, AND CITE THE REASON.
"TO WAKE CORRECT IORS/ADDITIONS: ENTER THE chaicats on
THE INDEX RECOMD'4N GREEW INK.



aantino, J. (Capt)
inh pe

code rane - “Chiercfern" ~*Joghua" .

oe
So-Op-23

card # 305



13-00000

