104-10107-10004

°F

RETURN To CIA 18 February 1969
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Houston

SUBJECT: John K. Greaney - Trip Meeting

1, The following people met in my office on 18 February:
a

central Cover Staff
3
Raymond G. Rocca, CI Staff

Ward K. Greene, Office of Security
John K. Greaney

It was a good meeting. .No disagreement on any points. John is
the team captain aah estat No polygraph unless

volunteers for it, and even then this will be sent back

to Headquarters for approval before it happens.

2. The question was raised whether_John should give
a general picture of the problem involving to Dave
Murphy. Ward Greene} and Ray Rocca objected
strongly? btated that he had filled in John Hart. This
was satisfactory to all concerned. Subsequently, John met with
someone recently returned from Paris who indicated there we
active plans being worked on in Paris for utilization {tS
and he thought it would be very helpful if Murphy were in.
John was then requested to discuss this with Hart, which he did.
Hart specifically requested that John give Murphy the general
picture since it could affect plans, both as to utilization and
building cover arrangements.



7 ‘cat é €

3. | alled later and still indicated he thought
it inadvisable for John to talk to Murphy. I informed him of the

above, and he said this changed his position, that John Hart's
interests were paramount.

4, In view of the other strong objections, I leave with you
the question of whether you wish to notify Howard Osborn and Ray
Rocca that John plans to fulfill Hart's request unless cable notifica-
tion to the contrary reaches him.

OGC:ISW :jeb
YO-Subject-Itkin File
1-Chrono


wl

18 February 1969

Mr. Houston:
A little addition to Mr. Warner's note to you regarding
Mr. Greaney's trip. It was agreed that unless there was something

startling, no reports are to be sent on their interrogation of

Marie
