104-10188-10044) # e

i Chiek, WH Division

LIERVOY Project Renewal.
et

REF; BRMA-20408

“}. the LIENVoY Project was renewed on 29 March 1963 for
the period 1 February 1963 through 31 January 1964, for a total of
$47,068; $18,210 for FY 1963 and $28,858 for FY 1964.

2. The renewal request subaitted with reference was changed
to reflect that only the Czech, not all Satellite installations
are covered by this Project. Attached is one copy of the
memorandum prepared at Headquarters forwarding the request for
approval.

ad Headquarters noted that the Station did not include
LIEWVOY-6 in the Project Renewal request. Headquarters records
indicate that this agent 1s still:.active. If such is not the
case, please furnish an Agent Service Record so that the OA can
be cancelled and the file retired. _

4. In the renewal process, KUTUBE commented that the Cuban
reporting and that connected with President Kennedy's trip to
Mexico were of special value, and they recommended renewal.
KUDESK concurred with the Station's plan tu move the intercept
center for the reasons stnted by the Station. KUDESK commented
that the project activity is bound to become of interest to
various opposition elements and the Station is well-advised to
make necessary changes to Provide for and improve on the security
of the operation.

2. With regard to the moving of the LIKNVOY tap center, a
separate dispatch follows regarding the equizment requested in
FAUT-3580.

EMD OF DISPATCH

Attachments: yen Pages
jd Pages 0/8/C

Distribution:
0&1 - CoS , eae peteys W/Att

Removed tran Project A2S# be
C8 Clnsstticatton: 90 ~6 > 227/*
son 723 172/908

Boxt.o2) Folds 2

: QR.GINATING
cerns Tae at Ter
1 - RI W/O Att MH/3/MEX/ Cc. Bus tos ds 5940
COORDINATING
1 - Chrono Deseo Tare i oeerir

|

PELESSING :

ee * Raford #. Herbert



F452,

Tether ene Ne

Stes-Videla
corse Tiveenniae

Lanrley 1 6025
in

HS
Forrest Shivers "ear a

Mel Robert D. Carter Quo ut beth
cit/Suprort | Arneson 2a a Gis

nyo]

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

|“ 4 Mar 63

Mar 63) +:
26 Feb 63/

> Feb 631

: 31 Jan 198
Siaivine avtndwite

fe | StGNATURE ~
ie ist 7, xO vp aiulinES

eae BUR Pe i SECRET : 2

[Be or coenm arre e


PROJECT:
ACTION :
PURPOSE:

PROG-

DDP/PG/FI Projects
27 March 1963

PROJECT BRIEFING
u
LIENVOY WH - Mexico
ADDP approval of renewal 1 Feb 63 ~ 31 Jan 64
Project provides for a joint CIA/Mexican Government
telephone tap center and for a'nonofficial liaison rela-
access to the
All Soviet and CzechosIoval
installations and major anti-U.S. elements are covered
by the operation.

Project has provided Station with a channel to the
which is effective, rapid and covert,
and was particularly worthwhile in making arrangements

for President Kennedy's visit to Mexico in June 1962.
a ‘also briefed on the Cuban
situation through this channel. The joint tap center

provides coverage of 30 lines yielding positive and CI
information of value. Division reports 236 positive
disseminations on a variety of topics with concentration
on Communist and anti-U.S. activity. A large amount of
information not disseminated is used by other U.S.

agencies in Mexico. The Station feels that this opera-
tion centributes greatly to the

toward U.S, policies.

FUNDS :

PREVIOUS
APPROVALS:

$47,068 $18,210 in FY 63 $28,858 in FY 64
Compensation (11 persons) $33,068
Operational expenses 2,000
Supplies and equipment 2,500
QP vehicle upkéep 1,200
Safehouse rental , 2,500
Entertainment 3,000
Purchase of information - LIENVOY/2 2,800
1 Feb 62 - 31 Jan 63 $ 43,230
1 Feb 61 - 31 Jani 62 59,690
1 Feb 60 - 31 Jan 61 53,840
1 Feb 59 - 31 Jan 60 163,537



STAFF
COMMENTS: FI and CI Stats concur in renewal.

FI STAPF: FI/INT points out that the project is
7} the most productive, in terms of volume, reporting
!] on Mexieo. it is also the most productive tele-
phone tap cperation, in terms of volume, of all
our tap eSforts. Cuban reporting and that con-
. nected with President Kennedy's trip to Mexico
were of especial value.

CI STAFF: Concurs with Station's plan to move the
intercept center for the reasons stated. The proj-
ect activity 1s bound to become of interest to
various opgesition elements and the Station is well
advised tc make necessary changes to provide for
and improve on the security of the operation.

Ld


26 February 1963

Project LIZN/G7  \Wit/Mexico

FI operation enploring audio surveillance and]

: 1. PI/LIT files contain 255 positive information disseminations
produced by Project LIENVOT during calendar year 1962 -~ 130 regular CS
disseminations, 116 teletrre resorts on subjects of current or priority
interest, an! nine transnittals of official documents from Communist or
leftist orgartzations in Mexico, LIEMVOY reports provided information,

on the Nexicen Corrunist Party (POM), the Popular Socialist Party (PPS),
the new but increasingly pewertl National Liberation Movement (MLN) —

an anti-U3, proZuba Comm: Front, on other Front or leftist organiza~
tions, and on individuals active in these organizations. Among the persons
of intelligence interest nos: extensively reportai on were Vicente LOMRARDO
Toledano, nes of the PPS ani an official in the Norld Federation of Trade
Unions; dJorz¢ L. TAMAYO Csstiilejos, an avowed Marxist appointed to a
govornment yosition; Braulic YALDONADO Sandez, Cocmunist former governor
of Baja California; the former president of Mexicg General Lazaro CARDENAS
del Rio, head of MLN; and.General CARDENAS* son, Cuauhtemoc CARDENAS
Solerzano. LIZ!YOY providet dso information on Mexican contacts with
Soviet Bloc ewatries, with Cuda, and with leftists of other Latin American
countries; on Communist sni leftist publications; on Prensa Latina and
other Cuban propaganda efforcs in Mexico; on the reaction of Hextean and
international Communists to the imprisonment of famed muralist David ALFARO
Sigueiros, ard activities on his behalf. Valuable, reporting in
connection with President Kennedy's visit to Mexico was provided — Communist
plans for satctage, the Ge +'s tactics ta inhibit their fulfillment,
and inforraticn on fgyorabie reaction to the US President's speech expressed
secretly by pro-Commihist nesters of the MIN. Anong the disseminations
which had to do with Cuba, a tunder reported the transshipment of goods, a
subject of ereciel intellicence interest and one, which reported the views
of high-level government cials concerning the Cuban crisis, was described

by CCIts analyst as extrenciy valuable.

{9 January 1953) FNIO cites as Third Cates
Cefectives the following to which LIENVOY
Zon of Latin can Governments and peoples
ct to Cuba; the vWnerabilities of particular

2. ‘Ihe recently
Priority Maticral Intell
reporting iz rants i
* to develormerts in and

SECRET



SECRET

countries to Castro-Comunist subversion ....! Among the projects
collecting intelligence information on Mexico, LIENVOY is the most
productive in terms of volume. In addition, the high level of its
sources and the technical means by which it is acquiral give the
reporting significance and authenticity.

3. FI/INT considers this an excellent project.
RENEWAL IS RECOMMENDSD.

Py)

Mb

HAYPEN ESTEY,
Chie’, FI/INM,

ey

SECRET


MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director (Plas)
unoucH: ppp/Pe

SURJECT: Project LIENVOY Renewal

Foreign Intelligence Staff recommends renewal of Project LIENVOY.
With its 259 positive intelligence disseminations during the past year,
SI/INT has pointed out that it is the most productive project, in terus
of volume, reporting on Mexico. It is also the most productive
telephone tap operations, in terms of volume, of all our tap eftorte.

The reports on Cuban matters and reports connected with President Kennedy's
trip to Mexico vere of especial value. ~

1. LOOYD GEORGE
chief
Foreign Intelligence

Attachment ed
Project


acquiet for acre!

le dacuary 19.2

ti
Chinese verder
sho

gersonalicies tho wore

to visits in

Hoxico.

he Station ;
editing. These are:

ortar’. position in the *
sountrtas, the roady

27
- prenptly co that the informatio:
est in this vee’

“LL be
In faz,

Ents
red for hin,

of 30 lines, 1s one of

ML i-for ation for
2 fron these on a datly

arnold Y. AREMART (53), *4

© for zorplete -aintes



1 phass ef the rogoct.

aeroiline URAL, £

earinz oa the
2 19:2, at
Hirestly across
crest in tho

idured a:
yorted that 07
ately 3939, the conctare noifeed tro rea jtact
the LF and tho sce-ed to have aa umtual ia
3 er ascut an hour both autoredtle and con=
tinued to vatch the buildin: frou the car, and fro tine to tire appeared

to ve taxing notes on the corin.s and joings of the installations, az vel]
notes on the cars used by the zersonnel of the LY. They attempted

to fellox one LF exployce thon he left for lunch. Later tha day, LILIVCY-2
and LIEXTCY-1, approached one of the tvo surveillance ren anc asked for an
explanation cf his astion that day, They also assed hir to iicntify hinsolt.
He shoxed ther a driver's dicense with the nance 3 VERA Gonzalez.” This
Anfornatie: vas chec'ied at the Lepartrunt of Traffic and found to be the
license of azother person, The Traffic uv xed cut to detor=
rine who, if aayone, i:ht shew an interast fa the n nd addresses of

the cars used by LP personnel. Cn the 1¢th of dune, an avert ef the Jccret
carvice of the Folice Headquarters shoved up and tried to obtain inforsatloa
about the omer of the Lecnge ;lates on LIEN/OY-2's car, The sta‘e-out
erployee and Scerot Service man chacited the traffic flea, but the information
vas not there. In conversation vith the scerct Service man, information waa
gained which led Uhe Station to suspect that he vas a menber of an investi-
zative group headed’ by a wextean whose afm {9 te cotein positizal infernation
for Nexiesn politicians. Since the 15th, no further atterpts.to place the

Ly under cbservation have been noted. Any problons such as this can be
handled, if necessary, by the 203 and his soverment contacts since this 13

a@ joint venture.

Mitch

ies arent

6. During the past project year, there have been 235 disse-inations
based on LIE! and LICIVOW#2 inforration: 200 fro: the forner and 30
fron the latter. LIZNV/OY refertins covered such topics as

a, Activities of iextcan leftists such as Tarare CARTTD
L, TasaYO, Vicontc LoxBAsbo Toledano.

b. ‘world Peads Council.

c. Soviet and Uzech activities in Hexico.

d. Activities of Joviet and Czech efficials in:

ion Movement (iN).

e, Vational Lihe

w


{. Cuban comercial activities in Nexico, and transshipment of
goods to Cuba.

te activities in Guba and Cuban activities in Kexico.
h. Kexiean Communist Party.

4. Popular Socialist Farty.

J. Clandestine Jonmunist propatanda and periodicals.

k.  Soveraze of activity in Xexico of interest to AUBARK in
connection with the trip of Fresident xennody.

1. Travel of persons of interest.

LIENVOY-2's informants provided roports covering such topics as the following:
a. Connunist Party activities 4n Koxico. :
b. Anti-government propazanda and activity,

@. Yational Liberation remont,

d. Anti-U.S. activity in the National University,

e. Developrents in itexico of intorest regarding the trip of ©
President Kennedy, z

7. MH Division supports the attached renewal request for Project
CY subnitted by the Kexico Sity Station. This projéct 1s considered
itive, ozerationel and

LIEN!
one of tha Station's nost productive, sources of
ST information. Also, it provides al

4



;
josewuuald

REQUEST FOR PHOJECT LIEXVOY RENEWAL

A. Current Objectives,

The objectives of this project remain the same as those stated in
the last renewal request, The project continues to provide the Nexte:

- ta: with a sooth end rapid
The Principal Acent continues to be a close associate of Tres LOPEZ

Fateos . The intercept center has undergone no major changes during
the past year,
1, RADN-6 Objectives Priority A, 1, a; Priority A, 3, 3, b, ¢;
and Priority B, 2 and 3 continue to be effectively covered by this
project. Cordial and friendly relaticus continue between

— the past year, the Chief of Station, Mexico, at the
request of the Chief, ODACID, Mexico, has held a number of covert

mectings with| masters. The

Chief, ODACID, remains pleased with ihis access to

2, ALL Soviet and Czechoslovak installations in
Mexieo City are covered by this project, The Case Officer
for Soviet operations and the Case Officer for Soviet Satellite
Operations rely heavily on this product for operational ‘leads
and data to support double agent operations.

3. All zajor -PBPRINE elements. in Mexico City ere
covered by this project,

4, Targets of opportunity which appear to be hostile
eritical to PEPRIME or to the present Government of Mexico ere
covered by this project, :

4
All major objectives of the project are being effectively retlizet,

B, Chenges.

At a yet to be deterzined date, it 1s planned to move the £2
center from its present location, ‘Two reasons are behind this row
1) security, since the present base has been used for almost three years:
and 2) to provide the center with more mobile equipment, Such equipeent
4s now under consideration by KURZOP and when it becoues availedte, an
amendment to this project will be forwarded requesting approval for the
transfer of the intercept center,

ept



eee

weet fea

‘worucs. to Keaaquarters eneh month Lists
th reports received from this project, During 1962 there
were 534 intelligence reports produced by this project which were
forwarded to Headquarters through 1 December 10¢2, All of these
concerned HITM-6 reporting, priorities and current requirements levied
by Headquarters and the ODACID instellation,

In addition, this project produces a large amount of information
which is not disseminated on & current basis but is reported to ODACID,
ODENVY and other ODYOKE agencies in reply to a steady stream of routine
file trace requests, These file trace requests run into the thousands
each month, It would be difficult to determine the exact percentage of

the information produced by LIEMVOY: but in many instances involving

larce portions of the file came

to us through LIZKVOY coverage,
D. Effectiveness,

The LIRWOY protest srovides tho Statton witn af)
th effective

which {s ho!

rapid as well as covert, The Station continues to receive the daily
“pesumen" highlights from the thirty (30) lines covered. A high
percentage of current intelligence ic disseminated fron these datly
reports, In eddition, full transeripts are received on Soviet and
Czech lines and on any of the thirty targets we may request, A good
part of this 1s personality data useful only to KUDARK and in some cases
to ODENVY, In addition. the project provides a cupport mechanism for
covering targets of interest to KUPARK or other ODYOKE agencies,

E. Problems,

‘There have been no significant security, cover, control or liaison
problems during the past year, :
F, Liatson,

From a liaison point of view, the Station believes that this project
trivutes greatly to the present

toward ODYOKE policies, ‘li Si
clandestine in nature though contacts between

are usually made at the request of the|

G. {nterareney Gooriinatton.

exico, is the only ODYOXE representative in
His role has been

The Chief, ODACID,
Mexico outside KUSAIK who 1s aware of this project.

(atacand sre es

Cy


u

es

explained above sixi the coordination with KUTARK {ns oxcelleat,

Hy Plans,

No signifient operational chances are recommended for the next

Project year,

Jeet to the continuation of the present Mexican

offiolals in <heir current positions, the project will not be changed,

I, Costs,

1. For the cast period.

The cos of the project (paid by Mexico Station exelusive of
Headquarters costs) from 1 February 1962 through 30 June 1962 was

US $16,253.00 avi from 1 July 1962 through 30 Now

wer 1962 (actual)

US $13,122.00 ani $7,600.00 Tor December and January (estimated), The

total for the rast year w1ll be approximately US $%

2., Bor the next project year,

975 00,

During che period 1 February 1963 through 31 January 1964, an
estimated amour: of US $47,068.00 will be required with US 518,210.00
to be spent from 1 February 1963 through 30 June 1963 and US 328,858.00
to be spent from 1 July 1953 through 31 January 1964,

3. Arent Sstertes,

‘ US PAs
LIENVOY/2. 5,760,
LIEnvoy/4 2,880,
LrEwoy/5 2,880,
LIEWoY,‘T 1,920,
LIsyvoy,’8 1,920,
LIENVOY/11 iad 2,880,
LIENVOY/12 2,880,
Lrsxvoy/14 u 1,920.
LIENVOY/15 ah,
LIENVOY/16 1,920,
LEENvoy,/18 2,88,

bonus one rexth's
1965 29,000. 2,300.
Contingency fund
new ugents om severance pay 2,28h,
Operational expenses 2,000,
“3.

mew fe
Leeda <]
oy

egeeeeeyae

950.



Local purchase supplies 2.500. 1,000, 1,500,
& equipment
Upkeep of 2 oP vehicles 1,200. 400. 800.

Safehouse rental 2,500, 1,000, 1,500.

Entertalument & gifts for 7
Mexican officials 3,000. 1,000, 2,000.

Purchase of information via LIENVOY/2

5,000, 2,800. 1,200. 1,600.

TOTAL 47,068, 18,210, 28,858,

J. Annex,

The equipment and Heedquarters' technical support furnished this
project during the past year has been commendable, A project amendment
will be submitted requesting additional equipment for the transfer of
the intercopt center ag soon as modifieations and estimates are nom,

K, Euergeney Conditions,

Should a crisis require the evacuation of the KUDARK staff agent
working itiside the Intercept Center, contact ean he maintatned with
LIEL:GANT at his clandestine apartment, This address is retained at
the Mexico Station, If the contact is not made by Willard C, CURTIS,
the use of his neme should be sufficient introduction, LIENVOY/2 could
be contacted in the same manner at his home in Mexteo City,

a

