# 104-10187-10038

## Page 1

10410187-10038)

RETURN TO CIA

Bestground Use Only

• Do Not Floproduce

SEGNST

NIV/SA 64-489

35 June 1964

A:ENORANDUM FOR: Chel, WH/Operations (hir. Hood)

VIA

SUBJECT

: Depaly Chied, WH/Sid (Bir. Cheever)

: Handling of AMMUG-1 Operation

af the AMMUG-l operalion. These paints were the subject of

earlier discussions by Af. Swenson and the various Branch chiefs

in WH Division.

3.

From the outset HHSA/CI's proposed action for handling

AbiMUG• has been:

# To debrief AhdiÜG-I soonest and to get the information

to the appropriate country desks as soon as possible. To run

traces, including lleid traces, and to analyze the resulis. Traces

8o ve run by WH/SA/CI on Cuban Is stalfers and by the WH country

desks on Cuban IS agents in their respective countries.

b.. To select the beat targets froin the Individuals Identified

Dy AMA. UG-l and to hit them in order of priority, considering their

overall value, chance of success, accessalility and perishability.

The selection of targeta to be done jointly by WEySA/Cl and the WH

desks,

(l) To give consideration to approaching the Cuban IS

agents before the Cuban Is staffers since the agents are leas likely

tO idow about AMA.UG-l's defection and in wost cases they have a

greater communication proules in reporting back to the Ll, (The

Cuban Is stalfers known to ABLA'UG-l can nut all be recalled or

transferred, and even if tranaterred could still be hit by AMAiUG-b.)

---

## Page 2

(8) TO we ANLUG-! for making pitchea to selected

largela, ayenta firet and stalfere second as explained above.

c. Jo provida the taformation acquired fron debriefing -

(1) To also

to prompt them to take any action as we nay wish.

Jad 24

(a) To give pertuent information

24

who can help us in locating and nionitoring largers.

d: Meanwhile, as In the AN:NIP-1 case (another Cuban 18

devector who has provided us with considerable information and

has been used in a number of appruaches), to dissemtaste appropriate

information to the U.S. intelligence community. In the case of

personalitles, the CSCI dissemination would conaist only of blographic

and descriptive data furnished by AMMUG-d, inclading appropriate

Headquarters traces. We would request information fros: tien in

return. (Tola procedure has been used in the AdiNIP-1 case.)

e. To docido what luformation me should alve the variou

24

1. To work out in cooperaton with the Cl and CA stalfs what

can be done in the event it niay be useful at son:e future date to

publicize AMMUG-l'a defection by releasing certain information to

the press or by possibiy having him appear before the Organisallon

of American, States.

9. The above represente a general outline uf what wur overall

Planning has been in connection with the At. AiL'G-1 case sunce we

wrought him to the United States. The role u WH SA/ed as 1 under-

stand it la to manage and coordinate the overall aspects of the

peration and to seo that no unilateral acuon is taken by any on

nterested desk or office that nay have dan. aung aflects on othe

aspecta of the operation.

Distribution:

Orig &1: AiressESEC

2 = WH/SA/CI

Harold F. swenson

Chief, IM/SA/CS

---

