# 104-10193-10164

## Page 1

104-10193-10164

NATERIAL NEV

SOME CIA MEANINETS MY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS' STAFF NEMBERS

NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUNE:

LiZiSE DOCUMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

ROOM:

THIRD AGENCY DOCLiMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

12565. 781

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

Erica ceR

SIGNATURE OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

Phoebe On

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

10 May 1977

F77.0725

MMORANDLA FOR: Chiot, talomation and Privacy Staff

I KOM

Frederick C. Randall

Chiet

• Polier and Information coordination Cros

REFERENCE

Peter d. Schey Request - Ku Alux Klin, et al,

it Cary Pendleton,

California

F77-025

The files of this tinctorate into boon soarded nich

regard do the listed arsonications connection with Canp

Fondleron, california and the resule is nogalive for each

08Hand:1101.

Fredorick C. Randall

CHADENT!.

---

## Page 3

1.

SOUTHEAST OFICE

3010 ANARIAL VENUE

SAN VILGO, CALMORNIA GIANI

(784) 239-9937

January 13, 1977.

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade

Nid.. 20755

17-01121

CHIEF OF NAVAL CPERATIONS

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

Washington D.C. 20350

Attn. 0P-09319

DEFENSE INVESTICATIVE SERVICE

DS4A

Washington D.c. 20301

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

Attn. Staff Secretary

Old Executive Office Building

Washington D.C. 20506

FEDERAL BUREAU CE INVECTICATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LUSTICE

9.th and Penn Ave. Niv

Washington of.

20535

DIRECTOR

DEFEVSE INTELLICENCE AGENCY

Attn: SC (FOIA)

Washington D.C. 20301

DIRFCTORATE FOR PREHOM

DE INPOMATION

Oftico ot the liststint

Secrotary of Defense

(Public Affairs)

20757. Pentagon

ashington D.C. 2030

CIA FREEDOM OU INPORRATION COORDINATOR

CENTANE INTELLIGENCY AGENCY

Washington D.C. 20505

RE: FREEDOM OF INFOPLATION REQUEST

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

This is a request under the Frcedem

of Intormation Act as

amended (5 U.S.C. 5552).

record:,

if lie.

parists

l:..

request ime

%....

er deposit

CP..

75-

JiH

17

-is.

3: RH'77

---

## Page 4

I sni writing this letter on bohall of myself and de. Carlton

Goodlett and Reporter publication.

Pursuant to the freedon of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. $552,

as aminded by lub. l. 93-502, 89 Seat. 150l, No wish

obtain access to and the opportunity to copy the following

documents:

1.

All directivos, memorando, lollers, orders, reports,

investivations, studies or other records, including written

monoranda of telephone conversations, which relate to the

formation, cxistence, retivities, operations, menbership.

size

of presence of any

Of the following oryanications.dt

camp Pendleton Marine Base, California:

Ku Klux Klan;

b.

California Ku Klux Klan;

United Kions;

d.

Knights of the ku Nlux Klan;

United Klans of America:

Southern Ku klux KLan;

White

knights of the ku Klux Klan:

white Brothurheed:

United Klans of

Anerica knights of the in klus Klan;

Minutemon:

Soired Army Orgmiction;

Christion Crusade Church;

n.

п.

American kanjers;

Invisible Empire of the Ku flux Alon;

Christian Dorense Lague:

ne National stiles Raylls Barty

Christian Mational Allian:

Anerican Volunteoro Group:

Provisionn sational Governont of the bos.a.i

Americon liari Pariy;

V.

National Socialict White looples Party;

w.

Lengion of initice;

x. Operation Unicorind oiler sintlar groups.

All directives, nemorands, letters, orders, reports,

investigations.

studies,

Ot"

other records, including

written

memoranda of tolephone convorsation, which colote to the

foundation, existonce, potivities, operations, size, member-

ship or presence of my of the oramizations named an No. 1

above in the United States Marint Corp.

All directives, letters, netorando, orders, reports,

investigations or other records which describe, analyze

or otherrise relato to rascisa at Camp penileton Marine Base.

---

## Page 5

14-00009

All directives, lottors, memorand, orders, reports,

investigations or other records which describe, inglyde

or othurwise relate to rascisn in the United states Marine

Since none"of the statutory exoptions from the Frcedom of

Information Act's mandatory disclosure provision applies,

to tho rogucoted records abould be grantod within

ten (10) working day:.

•In the unlikely event, however, that access it denied to

any part of the requested records, bleare descrite the

deleted matcrial in detail and spocaly the statutory baris

for the denial as well is your recons for believing thit

the alleged statutory justification exists in this case.

Please also state your reasons for not invoking your

discretionary

power lo relento the suquested documcats in

the public interest.

lie also request that you waive any applicable feer since

disclosure will meet. the statutory

slandard for

buch waiver

cloorly be "in the public interes: becouse

the incoration can bo considered

beneriting the general publac".

S.U.S.C.A. 8919141!11 (r).

Should

,iny

procedural probem arior du do this roguest.

plodoc

call me icollurt)

it (814) 233-5453.

He await. your, prompe

reply.

Kirit Sicke

Pater A. schey

Attorney it baw

TERESA CHIIZ.

Par 201 001.00, "0m $ "2:.0.6.818.

110000.

PAS: pcn.

Subscribed and sworn to before

me on

January 14, 1977.

listen

NOTARY PULLAC TY AND TOR TIE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

---

