# 104-10250-10200

## Page 1

104-10250-10200

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: Deputy Chief, Special Security Division

DATE: 21 October 1953

FROM : Chief, Special Referral Branch

SUBJBCT :

HIDALGO, Jr., Balmes Nieves

#65077

SSO dais

D9C.

A. 13

WEEK

1. Reference is made to your memorandum, dated 16 October

1953, in which it was

requested that appropriate inquiries be

made

to ascertain

he answers to the following questions.

a .

Can BALMES be made available for testimony

before the Subversive Activities Control Board in the

United States.

can

b. If the answer to question "a" is in the negative,

the FBI interview BALMES wherever he may be outside

the United States.

Or can questions to be answered by BALMES be

submitted to CIA for transmittal to BALMES and the answers

given by BAIMES be sent back to the FBI, via CIA.

2. On 21 October 1953 Mr

Chief, WH/FI

was interviewed in his office.

Mr.

Subject was presently a Contract Employee whose services are being

stilized in, Panama under the Travel Control Project. He stated

that Subject has been overseas for approximately one and a hall

years and that his contract period will probably expire within six

months. He advised that in answer to question "a", Subject can be

made available for testimony before the Subversive Activities

Control Board in the United States if necessary. He stated that

Subject's position

was not such that he was indispensable to the

Project and that if it was absolutely necessary, he could be

recalled to the United States within twenty-four hours. In refer-

ence to question "b", Mr?

advised that there was no reason

this was the most desirable alternative and that he would prefer

the questions to be answered by Subject be submitted to CIA for

transmittal to Subject and that the answers would be

returned to

the FBI, via this Agency.

On 21 October 1953 Mist

of Staff C

reviewed her records and determined that Subject's true name is

identical to the captioned Subject and not as shown in your

memoran dum of 16 October 1953.

SEGRET

•sary tilermation

6/134

---

## Page 2

4.

In view of the above, no further investigation is

contemplated by this office unless advised to the contrary.

Charles

Kane

Mc GRATH/ mla

10/21/53

03) word M, Depen

Stre action. Ar

I sit it spin that sage t ised the

Traves inses wou

- 2

Security Tatare: ca

---

