# 104-10178-10058

## Page 1

104-10178-10058

• €s 3001

-CONFIVENTIAL

1881

ПP & 80.48

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTRAL INTESIOINCE ADINGY

Intelligence Information Cable

TOC

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO,

• SUBJECT

PLACE A

DATE ACO

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL

REI

FIELD REPOIT NO.

IN 81645

1. (FIELD COMMENT: TDCSD8-315/82243-65, DATED I JULY 1965,

REPORTED THAT JORGE MAS CANÓSA OF THE CUBAN REPRESENTATION. IN.

EXILE (REPRESENTAÇION CUBANA EN EL EXILIO, RECE) MIGHT USE CARBALLO

(FNU) AND HIS CONTACTS FOR AN OPERATION INVOLVING THE SLOWING UP

OF A SOVIET OR CUBAN VESSEL IN VERACRUZ, MEXICO. IN LATE JUNE RECE

WAS ATTEMPTING TO PROCURE A SHIPPING SCHEDULE AND MAS CANOSA WAS

IN TEXAS WORKING OUT DETAILS REGARDING THE OPERATION.)

2. ON 8 JULY

OF RECE SAID THAT HE HAD

JUST RETURNED FROM TEXAS AND THAT MAS CANOSA, WHO REMAINED IN

TEXAS, HAD LOCATED A PILOT THERE WHO MAKES REGULAR TRIPS TO MEXICO

CONFIDENTIAL

STATU/INA DNA AMANT/ACEI

MAVY

All SCa

SACDED NSA MIC AND USA OCA ON OCH ONL

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

VSR

---

## Page 2

T 3009 1PSM

PLICE CONTROLS ABOVE TOP BLICE LINE AND BELOW BOTTON BLAGE LETE

IN

iN liong.

CONFIDENTIAL

TOCS

AND GHO MOULO BE WILLING TO TRANSPRIT ANY EXPLOSIVES INTO.

MEXICO FOR RECE.

3.

SAID THAT THE PLAN REMAINS THE SAME -TO PLACE THREE

SMALL CHARGES ON THE HULL OF A CUSIN SHIP IN A MEXICAN PORT.

ALSO SAID THAT IT WOULO BE BEST TO WAIT BEFORE

FINALIZING THEIR PLANS BECAUSE TOO MANY PEOPLE KNOW ASOUT RECE'S

OPERATION.

• 5. FIELD DISSEME CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMAWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, IONS, AND USEG. (ALSO

SENT PANAMA CITTJANO MEXICO CITY.)

16-7

MPO 1-00 1801

PAOE

CONFIDENTIAL

• IND OF MESSAGE

318R

---

## Page 3

-32

mOM

IMWAVE

WAVE S X RID COPY

'INO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DESTION O 80

IT TO BENON E

pot

CA/PROP,

a/C

H/D • FINI

AD/EL iN ADANE

SECREI154432

NON 65.81512 IN 11645

DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR MEXI CITE WAI

INTEL TYPIC

SUFDATA:

FILED 1500÷3Z

AMÊLEVE- 15 FROM ERNESTO FREYRE VARONA, RID:

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM.

INDEX:

CUSA/MEXICO

SUBJ: POSSIBLE DELAY IN THE PLAN OF THE CUBAN REPRESENTATION

IN EXILE (RECE) TO BLOW UP A CUEAN VESSEL IN MEXICO

DOI: 8 JULY 1905

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 JULY 1965)

UFG 7373

SOURGE: A CUSAY REFUGEE WHO HAS MANY CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN EXILE

ACTIVISTS. PREVIOUS REPORTING FROM THE REFUGEE HAS PROVED TO BE

FAIRLY RELIABLE®

IN COMMENT.

mans all

_ HOUING

.91

RELASING I WA

NO DISSEMINATION 3E

TArTACHED

iT SEEN

MADE OUtE

VELEASE BY THE ACTION UNN

TOCS

TROUTINE

BASED ON

DATE DISTRIBUTED.

LIAISON

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

PRIORITY

1.060

Copy Na

3/BR.

---

