# 104-10192-10027

## Page 1

104-10192-10027

CLASSIFY TO PIE NO _

¡ IN TO FIL NO

FROM UMWAVE

IW.

ACTION

INO"

Feli

did tre

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

131

SECRET

THE RID

D

REI TO BRANGN O

DESIRON O

31ю

(X) RID COPY(COPY ISSUED TO: CS/DO AT Z2RS DO)

(HEVISEO ANAT

AJG 1-09

ROUTING

Тур-

SECRET 2723597 2111 8.728 OCT 81382 65 IN 81918

DIR: INFO PACY LANT BARR CARA]l CITE WAVE 6887

INTEL TYPiC 2-7

SUPDATA: AMOT-84 IN DO-1661, 26 OCTOBER 1965. FIELD CONMENT PARA.

BASEO ON UFG-7611, AND IN PARA, 4 ON UFG-7539. RID: NO. INDEX.

FILED 272359Z. REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM. CUBA.

SUBJ:: PLANS OF THE INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONIRY

RECOVERY TO SABOTAGE SHIP IN THE PORT OF LA GUAIRA, VENEZUELA

D01$ 24 OCTOBER 1965- PADA: INITED STATES, MIAMI (27 OCTOBER 1965)

UFG-7675

SOURCE:. A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE

TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION® THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED

USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.

IN COMMENT:

WH/REG

N1/3/V

RELEA

12

8

FE/ESEC

FE/JKO/R.

FE/TOKY.

2

DATE DISTRIBUTEDI

28 OCTOBER 1965

02 53 .

TDCS. DB 315/03520-65

X/ ROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASED ON UFG 7675

NP (AMOT-84)

LIAISON

BACLUDED PRON

SEGRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Capy Na

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Cr

, Do Not Repreduce

---

## Page 2

ta-notes

Y888: 3000

SECRET

MPG 1160

SECRET

.CENTRAL INTELLIDENCE AGINCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OR

INa.

34 OCTOBER 1955

NO FOREIGN DISSEM; CONTAGLLED DISSCA

• ROUTINE

TDCS D8 315/03520-65

DISTA 28 OCTOBER 1965

- SUWICT

SASOTAGE PLANS OF THE INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT

FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY (MIRR)

DATE AGO. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (27 OCTOBER 1965)

SOURCE

AND

- REF

N 81918

FELO REPORT NO. UFG 7675

APPRAISAL A MEMBER OF A GROLP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TECHNIQUES. OF INFORMATION

COLLECTION.

THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.

ON 24 OCTOBER 19Ó4 ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEID OF THE MOVIMIENTO

INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION ROVOLUCIONARIA

• (MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL

MOVEMENT. FOR REVOLUTICNARY RECOVERY), SAID THAT IN ACT OF SABOTAGE

WILL BE COMMITTED AGAINST A SHIP WICH IS ANCHORED IN THE PORT

OF LA GUAIRA, VENEZUELA, AS A PART OF MIRR'S OVER-ALL: PLAN.

(FIELD COMMENT: A RECENT REPORT FROM THE SAME SOURCE BUT A DIFFERENT

SUBSOURCE, REPORTED THAT THE MIRR PLANNED TO ATTACH A JAPANESE.

SHIP AT SOME PORT IN VENEZUELA.)

:2.. 'BOSCH SAID JHAT THE MURR WILL INFORM MARTIN CORREA,.

Law Tile 18, USC. Socs, 793 and T94, the lanimission or revelazion of which in any manner to an

prohibited by

SECRET.

HU FORGER OISEN CONZGUED DISSCA

STATE/INA

ARMY/ACSE MAVY

ПРОСЛУ НАЛИС К.

SECDEF

HENS

NSA

NIC

TREASURY

CHOLE 7

подтона

EXO

COAST GUARD COMMERCE

---

## Page 3

NO FOREIGA DISSER CONSRGLLEO DISSEM

ПТО 648 190)

21910

SECRET

TDCS D3 315/03520-94622

INTENTION TO CONTINUE TO ATTACK SHIPS INVOLVED IN CUBAN TRADE,

AND ASK FOR THE SUPPORT OF CORREA'S ORGANIZATION. ACCORDING TO

BOSCH, IF HE GETS THE BACKING OF THE LABOR CONFEDERATION OF

VENEZUELA (CTV), HE WILL BE ABLE TO "PUT PRESSURE" ON THE

GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES. (FIELD COMMENT. THE DIARIO LAS

AMERICAS REPORTED ON 16 OCTOBER THAT THE FORTH NATIONAL CONGRESS

OF LONGSHOREMEN OF VENEZUELA HAD RESOLVED TO MAINTAIN A BOYCOTT

AGAINST CUBA.)

3. BOSCH IS ALSO CONSIDERING INSTRUCTING. THE MIRR LEADERS IN

VENEZUELA TO START A CAMPAIGN IN THE LABOR MOVEMENT THERE IN AN

EFFORT TO GET THE WORKERS TO BRING PRESSURE ON THE LABOR LEADERS

TO SUPPORT THE MIRR

4. (FIELD COMMENT: A RECENT REPORT FROM THE SAME SOURCE BUT A

DIFFERENT SUBSOURCE, REPORTED THE PLANS OF THE MIRR TO "DECLARE WAR"

ON ALL COUNTRIES WHICH TRADE WITH CUBA BY ATTACKING SHIPS IN THE

CUBAN TRADE. THE MIAMI HERALD OF 13 OCTOBER REPORTED THAT BOSCH

CLAIMED CREDIT IN THE NAME OF THE MIRR FOR THE EXPLOSION ABOARD

THE SPANISH VESSEL SATRUSTEGUI AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO, ON 188

OCTOBER, BOSCH ALSO SAID THAT AN ATTEMPT TO BLOW UP A BRITISHi

FREIGHTER IN A LATIN AMERICAN PORT HAD FAILED BECAUSE OF A

DEFECTIVE DETONATOR.)

5.

FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLINT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, IENS, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, USCG. (ALSO SENT

CARACAS AND TOKYO.)

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

NO FOREISH DISSER/CONTAGILED DISSEN

---

