104-10472-10005

OUTGQIN™ MESSAGE

sumac cenreruae one
eg eeittrear Pit ace ctee the

onF a a o a it}

SecrReT

Fe

cone: cf InFa:
Lun. =
eles, 0

TO: FBI//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION-¥
SECRETS WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED ~ NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS -¥ {
TONTO ZIMERT SAFIE AND GERALD PATRICK HENMINGY
Demeinary 2 Brecce AE Ri

CIR-3LL/O247L-2bY oO ver
y. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION ON SUBMECTS IS BEING FORWARDED

sugJECT: JORGE AN

FOR WHATEVER ACTION you DEEN APPROPRIATE-¥

2. ON 8 JUNE 19%bs A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT

JORGE ANTONZO "COKIE™ ZINERI SAFIEs A GUATEMALAN CITIZEN BHO HAS BEEN

RCE AUGUST 1975. WAS INVOLVED IN A PLOT TO ASSASSI-~

LIVING IN MIAMI SI?
NATE GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT KJELL EUGENIO LAUGERUD GARCIA. “THE ACTION

> WAS TO HAVE: BEEN CARRIED OUT 15 SEPTEMBER 1492S BUT ZINERI WAS

WOUNDED IN GUAT
AUGUST 1975 AND WENT TO
GUATEMALA ILLEGALLY AND may BE I

3. ZINERI WAS BORN 1S MAY 2944s
AND ELENA JESUS SAFIE- LNFORMA~

EMALA CITY DURING AN ARMED ATTACK ON HIS LIFE IN LATE
HIAMT FOR MEDECAL TREATENT.  ZIMERY LEFT

N THE U.S. UNDER FALSE PRETENSES-¥
IN GUATEMALA CITY. GUATEMALA-

HIS PARENTS ARE ELIAS ZIMERT NASSAR
QS NOT AVAILABLE BUT HE CARRIES

_ TION ON HIS TRAVEL DOCUNENTATIO!

pony

rea

i

2 i

6 (bsgtenelisn!

enasome onmeas i H

cessnecanon REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINGTUFFICE ispronie'teD £€ 2 IMPDET : :
coe eet GL BYE ey :

: RETURN TO clA
i Background Use Only

Do Not aie


“yana.¥

OUTGOING MESSAGE’

a o u a

CIA a :
cone: wo: FRE 70800 Fo nan
: OD mnmere PER

D wees
GUATEMALAN ID CARD NO- Sresaava ISSUED IN GUATEMALA CITY ON 24 may
Q. ALSO. REPORTEDLY INVOLVED IN THE ASSASSINATION PLAN uAS A
U.S. CITIZEN, GERALD. PATRICK HENNING: {ALSO KNOWN AS JERRY HENNING?»
WHO BAS SAID TO BE INVOLVED IN ACQUIRING AND TRANSPORTING ARMNS TO

GUATEMALA-Y a
5. HEMMING IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL TO G. P+ HENMMING. FORMER U.S.

MARINE AND SOLDIER OF FORTUNE WHO HAS BEEN ENGAGED IN CUBAN AND ANTI-

CASTRO MOVEMENTS FOR SEVERALS YEARS.Y ~ .
bh. THE INFORMATION IN PARAGRAPHS TUO AND THREE HAS BEEN FOR-

WARDED TO INS.¥ : ;

2. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED, REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM
GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION, SCHEDULE OF E.0. L1bS2+ EXEMPTION CATEGORY
SB{2}. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF SS DECLASSIFICATION.d
FILE: 202-0218693% 201-309125. BASED pee ae 29536

LA COMMENT! REF ASKS FOR APPROVAL TO PASS ED STATE LAUGERUD'S
QUESTIONS ON ZINERI AN

Orin yj 3
: = OPS/LSN/
as gue 197% OF AGC/DDO, sonra
pareqtGAnes D. MASSEYPSA
conch” TAs ICAN/GES DC/LAL {DRAFTE
yes qauL
OU sf hen AcsLAriNca C/LAD
ADV “leeds aes eis
‘i ameve eS.
cee REPRODUCTION BY OTWER THAN TH: KALUING UPNCE IS PROBED =F 2 IMPDET

—

"op
