# 104-10055-10125

## Page 1

1104-1005-107251

SECRET/KAPOK

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

COVER SHEET

CRYPTONYM

LIEMPTY

STATION

Mexico City

FIELD CASE OFFICER^.

Quinton N.

•OUSLER

CHIEF OF STATION

Award leste

Willard C. CURTIS

The attached project action is presented for approval for the period

1 December 1961 through 30 November 1962.

SECRET/RE

F.73

CULY

08318

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET/HOT

Review of Project LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION

A. Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

1.

"To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities.

" SCANTLING has continued (See the

last two Project Reviews forwarded as attachments to HIMMA-14093,

13 November 1959, and HMMA-15979, 18 November 1960) to provide

worthwhile information pertaining to this objective.

a. During the past year SCANTLING has continued to be

used to follow up leads produced by LIENVOY. For example,

operational information recently indicated that the LIMERICK

target was using the services of a Mexico City firm to repair

Through discreet investigation SCANTLING was able to

identify the firm, its location and the name of the owner in the

event that we later wished to make an approach to him or to

exploit this information in another manner.

b. SCANTLING is still the Station's primary source for

keeping current records on the residences of the many LIMERICK

personnel in Mexico City. This is accomplished in several ways;

the most important being SCANTLING's follow up of all LIENVOY

leads which indicate the LIMERICK people are interested in

renting a given piece of property. (See previous project renewal

request for additional details).

2. "To collect operational information pertaining to other targets

of opportunity, foreign official installations and personnel of intelligence

interest operating in Mexico." SCANTLING is very useful for collecting

information on other Station targets:

SECRET/SEOK

28 6091

FACE

40

6 $

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET/ES OK

-2-

a. On the basis of a request to the Station from the

ODACID Chief, SCANTLING was sent to Puebla to be an

eyewitness to the 4 June 1961 Catholic inspired anti-CASTRO

demonstrations. Not only did SCANTLING obtain the desired

information, and samples of many of the leaflets used, but he

prepared his report for the Station in time for the COS to give

the ODACID Chief a briefing at 1000 hrs., 5 June 1961.

SCANTLING does an excellent job on this type of assignment

due principally to his ability to observe and report objectively.

b. SCANTLING was instrumental in establishing that

Fernando LLANES Cavero and his wife were living at a local

Mexico City address. This case has been of considerable

counterespionage interest to Headquarters.

c. SCANTLING has continued his contributions to the

Paul Frederick KIRSCHHOFF case by periodic interviews with

the subject's neighbors and associates.

"To exploit operational leads through recruitments, debriefings,

and surveillances.

" SCANTLING has contributed to this objective both

directly and indirectly as will be noted by the examples listed below:

a. SCANTLING devoted a lot of time to the

surveillance and attempted recruitment of

Mexican national employed at the Cuban Embassy. SCANTLING

talked with

several times and undoubtedly was

primarily responsible for the later success of the recruitment

made by another Station agent.

b. Some addicional time was devoted to the Cesar

GONZALEZ Sanchez case in February 1961 when SCANTLING

determined that GONZALEZ was still in Mexico City. See

the last renewal for additional details on this case.

In connection with the above objective SCANTLING

has performed numerous pretext and neighoorhood investigations

for the Station. SCANTLING also does most of the local

investigations requested by ODACID and other ODYOKE

components.

SECRET/K

PACE

COPY NO.

0f

6 8

---

## Page 4

14-00000

-3-

d. SCANTLING spent six weeks during July and

August of this year giving tradecraft and surveillance

training to LIPAILS 5 and 7 from Monterrey. Although

this is not a direct contribution to the above objective, it

is considered sufficiently related to mention here.

4. In addition to his contributions to the above objectives,

SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support requirements from the

Station. For example, SCANTLING is now handling LIEMBROIL-2 and

will continue to do so until the return of LIMOTOR-14 in June 1962. Also,

during the past project year, SCANTLING handled the LIRICE surveillance

team until July 1961 when Simon D. CLACKETT (ps) returned to Mexico

City. SCANTLING is also used to spot and rent safe houses and apartments

for other Station operations.

As stated in the preceeding Requests for Project Renewal,

although SCANTLING's LIEMPTY Project objectives can never be completely

fulfilled, it is the Station's opinion that SCANTLING has made important and

valuable contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically and to

other Station activities in general. SCANTLING's production, measured

against monetary expenditures, case officer time and other intangible factors,

unquestionably justifies his continuation as an integral part of Project

LIEMPTY.

B. Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

•1. "To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities through use of photographic base houses. "

Three photographic bases, LIMITED; LILYRIC and LICALLA, contribute

to this objective. To avoid repetition, the Station is omitting the usual

description of the functions of these three bases and how they contribute

to the above objective. There has been no change in the coverage as

described in the 1960 Request for Project Renewal.

"To collect operational information and identify operational

leads pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." The LIENTRAP

operation, handled by GERENDE, is still the major contributor to this

SECRET;

PAGE

COPY NO.

2

of

€ 8

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET/KEROK

-4-

objective. In addition to performing numerous photographic assignments

in support of other Station operations, LIENTRAP devoted nearly four

months, on a fulltime basis, to coverage of the LIERODE operation.

For

several weeks the entire "take" from the LIERODE target was recorded

from the LIENTRAP vehicle, Later, the LIENTRAP agents operated the

LIERODE technical gear from the initial LIERODE stationary base.

"To provide operational support to Station operations, i. e.,

rent hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances.

GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for other

Station operations and activities.

GERENDE's comprehensive area

knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make him an

extremely valuable Station asset for such support activities. GERENDE

• also procures and services post office box letter drops for the many

Station operations requiring them.

4. The quality and quantity of operational information produced

by the photographic bases and other activities under GERENDE's control

and supervision is considered worthwhile. The Station concludes, therefore,

that this segment of the LIEMPTY Project should be continued.

C. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives:

As stated in the previous project renewal, it can readily be noted

that Project LIEMPTY has provided support to many Station operations and

in this manner has been a contributing factor to the furthereance of the

Related Mission Directive. The project has not produced any positive

intelligence nor has it been intended that it should do so.

The project's sole

purpose is to provide a mechanism for the development of operational

information in support of other Station operations.

II.

CHANGES

There have been no changes in the LIEMPTY Project during the past projeci

year except that SCANTLING relinquished control of the LIRICE (formerly LIJERSEY)

surveillance team in july 1901

in accordance with previous plans.

SECRET/K*

PAGE

43

COFY NO.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET/1

-5-

II. EFFECTIVENESS

There has been no change in Project LIEMPTY which would alter the

validity of the remarks made in Section III of last year's project renewal request.

IV. PROBLEMS

The security problem in connection with the LICALLA operation, which

was described in last year's renewal request, is still present but has not caused

any known difficulty. At Headquarters suggestion in HMMW-9736, the LICALLA

base was reactivated on 29 May 1961. The base operator has been cautioned to be

ever alert for any unusual incidents which might indicate that the base has been

compromised. This is the only problem experienced by the LIEMPTY Project

during the past project year.

V. . PLANS

The Station considers that the project is now operating at its optimum size

and does not plan to expand it during the coming year. Rather, efforts will be

devoted to refining and better utilizing the existing project organizational

arrangements.

VI. COSTS

A. Past Project Year - Station finance records indicate that Project LIEMPTY

expended $21, 458. 00 during Fiscal Year 1961 (1 December 1960 - 30 June 1961) and

has thus far during Fiscal Year 1962 (through 30 September 1961) expended about

$11,000.00. It is anticipated that about $8, 000. 00 will be expended during the last

two months (Ocrober and November 1961) of the project year.

This will make a

total expenditure during the project year of about $40, 500.00, or some $12, 500.00

under the budger estimate of $53, 000.00.

B. Ensuing Period - Of the total $49, 500. 00 budget, itemized below,

$29, 560.00 should be expended during the remainder of Fiscal Year 1962 and the

balance, $20,000. 00 should be expended during Fiscal. Year 1963. Normal accounting

procedures will be used for all expenditures.

FARR

44

- Of f 8

Cord 10e

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRETLKEIEK

-6-

AGENT

Raymond H. GERENDE

Oliver G. SCANTLING

Louise J. MACRINO

(@ $2.02 per hour)

LIEMPTY -4

LIEMPTY-5

(@ $1.75 per hour)

LIEMPTY-6

LIEMPTY- (No Salary)

LIEMPTY-8

LIEMPTY -9

LIEMPTY -10

LIEMPTY-11

LIEMPTY-12

LIEMPTY-13

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19

LIEMPTY-24 (No Salary)

Christmas Bonuses 1961

U.S. $ PER ANNUM

$

5, 520. 00

5, 000.00

1, 500.00

2, 200.00

1, 000.00

3, 000.00

-0-

2, 000.00

3,000.

3, 900.00

2, 800.00

2, 000.1

2, U0U.

OU

2, 000.00

1, 000: 00

-0-

2, 580.00

SUB-TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Maintenance of MV -2279, 2284 and

2286.

Procurement of Safehouses, post

office boxes and renting

automobiles.

Purchase of information,

identiticarion documents, and

bribes.

SUB-TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repair, maintenance and purchase

of replacement photographic

equipment.

$ 2,000.00

1, 000.00

500.00

$ 1,000.00

SUB-TOTAL

SECRET/K

$

39, 500.00

3, 500:00

1, 000.00

PACT

45

COFY NOR

8

---

## Page 8

14-00000

. (

SECRET/BELOR

-7-

REAL ESTATE

Rent, utilities and maintenance

of following safehouses:

*LIMITED

*LICALA

LILYRIC

$ 3, 000.00

1, 500.00

1, 000.00

SUB-TOTAL

GRAND TOTAL

5, 500. 00

$ 49,500.00

*LIMITED and LICALLA rents are returned to the Station by LIMOUSINE and

credited to Station miscellaneous receipts.

VIL. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

Please refer to last year's request for project renewal and HMMA-15982,

23 November 1960, and HMMA-15981, 23 November 1960.

1+1731

SECRET /14901

68

FJ22

The of.

GOEY 10.

---

