# 104-10121-10061

## Page 1

104-10121-10061

.. SEGRET

7 July 1951

HENCRANDUM FOR LEE RECORDS

SUSJECT &

BELITSKIY, Boris Yefimorich

The following intonation pertains to the relationair ol

PARISE,

AlIe DISEN and Alerander DOLBER

2. On 24 September 1958L

02.13

Walter by McKinney RUSSElL Of AVCOMIB.

stated that surserY ls the hend of tha Britien divisioo 2

RadIo Moscow and vas an Interpreter for tha Russians at the Brussel

World Fair. It tas anterstood that KLITSKXY hendled the Russian

delegation for VaRIstLot when le visited the World Fair.: BELITSKY

had previously

been in the trited States with his father who worked

WIth AMTORG 18

the late 1920's and ewly 1930'g

school is Bey York Cit

03

3°

stated that Carl Koch or his and Ceox ga

melber

and stringer for AlCOTIs bota

2-21.

cable 9447 dated 9 Septenber 1958 states

DOLBERG had receited & letter from a lady friead (HOB) of 1U6

Prussels wheresa she asked kin whether Re had contacts with the

TOSFE publication for Broboda in order that she could traneat i8

strict confidence friendly citicisus of the mgazine frow bar friend

DDS/IOS

the proper people DOLERO xeceived an wiped lettar conta rainy

construction sypethetle eriticlams of Svobode and suggestions

ADDS/IOS proving Its contents.)

4: 37/10S

7/ ID

/OED

SORD

Attached 18e diagranmatical sketch of the circumstances as

they exists regarde

3 tO BELITSKIY prior to bis recrulement 8or the ATs.

Gullible!

CI. Support Des

280/08D/SD/4

1SA3

I5 B

July 1901

SECRET

URN TO CU

Gi's

IT ES

---

## Page 2

1990

5 Septerber 1958

SUBTLES

B05373/12300

Mr, Karl ROCH, deling Chief leavor sy Mona Perons en

Liriod on 1 september 1955 hat ke hed attendos a courtal sur

of lugust Lives by a Piss Aline West. He stated thei

lorch faeriess unspapes Alliance, 18 Eb0u6 3 1248001

fired fros a iro sertica intae ust for loving leaked i

Confidontial angazine. le etated that she playa footato ma dal

and is a concistenco tro, stated thai she is a rory sood volter sages ancierce

after To ting then

2120 In B03608709 00

mon to ls. rich during sia Cemporary stay

trchnician vith Sadlo Moscoro

Invitation no asked Mas MOSBy soc to not any intellinceo tyn ven

so the cocktall party Buys is spearlataly 38 seo 98

12 the Unised Starco 0921-193r tra ma lather vas en a prudas

therE, BELTISTY has beco criticized by tha regio lor ble seideas

tila Vesterera so that de osher thaa soctal affairo nes Farranto

Vicetem corresiondente bo merely elves s' nod bur sues ho is is estim

mite Selendigo

Ho apparently has less money than other correspons

It was lensmed thas hehad saved a 11itle tet cus ai a boss 200

which he mishes to use foiry outa systo he has deriod to e

акос

He had naked a Miss Frieda Sul uno Is e correspondont at tha prues o

as the Inorition if she could bet hin into the Casino Ostende rathous

hie horing to anst any crcientiste.

He roe lion 198 to go on the but

End

Sts of september.

me opiosinity presented itsell men Ir. h00u called me as cy

bafore offled hours on 3 saptember and sinted thee he had been mated by

FiTINT to tase a ride lo the country.. I asked ICH to try sad sos mrai

bosriphie data on BELTSEr, taore hia fantly was, this hio lather too

doing, noa long he was going to be in Bruasold. On & Septaber Me Boca

under STALl and arparently not too friendly to theregluo but ms basseally

nationalistie.

-I aoked Ho hUch 11 he ho made an approach so tan to bo.

said definitely no.

Meo soCH is prepsring a seport with ali inforension

U1s seport till be forthconing thin the nest too os theren despo

---

## Page 3

nd da Foobsen122

TIS

Fondais

ridout F/y

T002021

fia deit

SATANI::

FONOS ANTICE

ostin.

JADy

Greerz9

bORIS

DAGITENCY

0 200 h

K H442240 D1/181902

RADIO MOSCE

cino in testi f

---

