# 104-10171-10034

## Page 1

104-10171-10034

S

ECRET

MICROFILMED

Chicf, Tack. Force

• AUG 1 1962

chief of Station, ERE, MICRO. SER.

CYROSE/ Opcratlonel

DFE/Guerrillas-larana and Las VIllas

ATTRITION REQUESTED: PM, KUTUBE.

all

16 July 1962. RETURNTO CIA

ox - 167, Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

SIT Cuen

•1. On 14 July 1962, Juan *Rodriguez Jobolca, A L2 821 206,

keywood, Los Alicles, Callfornia,

telephone 581-5569, wes Interviewed.

said hel fornerly

beloneed to und De!, but after Playa

Giron it dicintegrated. Neverthcless; he,

cold, he was able to keep in

contact with a few Did people who are in Havura..

He sald details on the

DRE could be obtained from hanuel Salvat, but he did state tha: he belonged

to the IRE froup headed by a brother of Dlar lanz. This brother 1sd1ll

in Havana. He said this group wants to engoge in political assassination,

and hao repoatcaly requested that plotole with oilencers be sent from

the United States.

F. 00

3.: Source sald that his cousinl

Tis a guerrilla

leader in Las Villas Province, more

opecIfically, operating be weep

Matenzea aud Corralillo.

He said that his coucin 1o a Ileutenant about

30 jears old.

He has a call troup, few arms, and very little amunition.

He 1s trying to get outside help but there 18 no nethod of cominicating

1 06,08

source sald that

Comment: A previous source reported that

there are two "Carpito"s,

a father and his son..

The son is the nost

reported upon guerrlila leader, the father apparently only accompanging

the son.)

Nelcon de. RAYNOCK

CS COPY

SECRET

19-120191

21BR.

---

