# 104-10123-10230

## Page 1

104-10123-10230

TO

ATTN:

INFO.

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

13-17

CIE A 58101

Chief, Regional Secarty Support Staff

PROCESSING

Rive:

PRO-

POSED

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

MEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

ABSTRACT

Chief, KUSODA

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

RYBAT(FIDUST)

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

RETURNTO OU

aan ground lise Only

; De Not Reproduce

Please pass the attached envelope unopened te Heward k.

Elbroll.

TACCOM

• PLISHED

Mark r. BASWORTH

Distribution:

Orig. @ l - Addresse

Attachment:

Envelope n/ a/c

5 CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPED

17 SEP 19f?

BS58P5696%О MBER

FCOS,3191

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

SIGNET

OFFICE

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

EXT.

---

## Page 2

14-00000:

S/C ATTACHMENT TO DISPATCE

(FCOS-3191

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR: Howard K. ELBROFF

pos.

SATURN TO CIA

Backround Use Orty

• IDe Not Reproduce

SUEJCCT

: Request for Receipt of Operational Funds

1. Recently Elaine R. Lenay, of KUTUBE, advised ¿bat on

15 february 1962, during the course of your developing a potential

agent of interest to KUTUBE in New York City, N. Y., she

advanced $50. 00 to you for this use. Because of operational

reasons at the time, it was not feasible to obtain a receipt for

this money.

2. Elaine R. Lenay advises that she recently submitted

a claim for the $50. 00 in conjunction with her travel voucher

for the trip during which this contact was made. The above was

disallowed by the Finance Division on the grounds that neither a

receipt nor an accounting was avallable.

3. Until such time as a receipt can be obtained from you.

the claim for $50. 00 le being disallowed. Therefore, it would

be appreciated if you would forward such a receipt at your earliest

convenience.

Mark I. AINSWORTH

ESTRISAT

---

## Page 3

14.00000

* 1as pace 1 are :

Elbrell.

core ope unopose

@wa

Alert T. DAW

INSWORTA

RETURNTE

Background Use si

• Do Nothieproduse

-

Discribation:

Orig. & 1 - Addresses

invelope a/e/

-

"CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPED

DISPAlL SYAE

AMb NL

22

TCO3)-3191

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

TE DISPATCHED

17 SEP 196?

ER

CLASSIFICATION

1 - SRD

Vi - Chrono

• 1 - DD/P

52002T

л.ід.-wі

OFFICE

OFFICE SYMBOL

-

"ZAT

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

JORDINATING

EXT.

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

OFFICE SYMBOL

DALE

1"S" 53 LSE PREVICUS EDITION REPLACES FORM 6100 MACHI MAY BE USED (RO

DISPATCH

---

