104-10186-10079)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘fous material contain information atecuing she Kational Detenes of the Ualiad Siates SUBIR te menaing of (D4 Replonsee Laws, TIO
WDD eece ts ana 190 We eenoniahe or revrlation of which ta say maneey "0 0m Uaatiowand pores Wo proniniied BY lew,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

country Cuba >
suuect Alfredo PROENZA

iyo.” 1964

Washington, D. C.

bate Acq. January 1965

REPORT NO. CSCI~316/00605-65
Date DISTR. «= ® «February 1965

NO. PAGES 1

oe ABTURNTO CiA
Background Use Only
» Bo Not Reproduce

FIELD REPORT NO

TWis 15 UNEVALUATED INFOSMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE.

“source. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The follawing report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Alfredo PROENZA was working for the Direccion General de
Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) as of
April 1964, In 1959 he was working in the Honicide Section
of the Department of Investigations and was later transferred

to the 18th Police Station,

2. PROENZA was born about 1936.
tall, weighs 160 pounds, and has a strong build. He has a fair
complexion, short black hair, an oval face, and protruding teeth.

Headquarters Comment

He is five feet nine inches

1. The records of this Agency reveal no information on PROENZA.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DSSSEM

oe)

STATE Tou Tawar Twave Tae

Tusa

REP CINCLANT _ CINCSO #

I&NS

(Datei Feld disviouign indicated by “2°

;LX

“$0 PROJECT (ASG

—— (SCI ~316/006 05-6
£ aE

Diva] Se eee eee sue Be CP po Ge

RID 1

Taos isbk

19-5-1

