" : aM Cee RE DS
104-10121-10130) 7 a
“ es) = @)

16 July 1975,

MEMORANDUM FOR : CCS/PRG
SUBJECT : Return of Alias Documents

Returned herewith are ali ‘ocuments which have been issued
o7t0 identity in the aliases of(Miguel P. COSSIO} (Diego S. MARDONES)O7
(Paniel Suarez MORENO;)Gimon S,)MARTINEZ) [These documents have be
utilized by identity for operational purposes. However, as he is
due to retire on 31 July 1975, they are being returned to you for
final disposition. The documents returned are as follows:

oF
a [Gtiguer P. DSsIo (A)
Tedential #171GjFeRWIADED SEPARATELY

8 (Social Security Card J)>!

ntinental Insurance Companies Card)3{
'o Washington Iheater Club Card
29 (RCA Record Club Card

31 MSocial Security card? .
24 HumbIQ Travel Club, Inc. Card
fl (Pan American Bank Card

: 2% CABC) Card

OF
(Dani 1 SUAREZ = .

2 impor cL |

SECRET/RYBAT



qeostsiaanaia 3 r @ OBE TINE rid

. : |
eae Gimon S. MARTINED (A) | |.
3; (Health Cert. #41716)
: 2 of Yat. Sciencé)Book Club
2

OM Bowling Congress Card)
xt (SS)Card.
>t GEFOO)Cagd :
(o Ft. Wash) Yacht § Tennis Club ‘
29 (DC Nat'l) Bk
24(Best Products Co., Inc) i)
Special Rep Credential #389
Calling Cards

(

2. It as noted that identity also has of Passport in
the alias of (Diego S. MARDONES MARTINEZ.) This document is currently
maintained by identity whé’is on TDY in 7S,
document will be retrieved from identity upon his arrival at Heaalé-
quarters and will be returned separately to CCS.

3. Records avai abie°i L.A.. Division also reflect that
o7 adentity was isgued a |Priver Licensé'in the alias of .

Qliguel P. COSSIO/and a Driver License in the alias of
67 (Diego S. MARDONES} These documents were reportedly returned
to the Office of Technical Services in April 1974.

4. Should any further questions arise relative to this
matter, please direct your inquiries to undersigned on extention
X6300 or R1546.

’ hea

loseph F. 14
ief, LA Security

Attachment:
As Stated

Identity:
David Morales

Ofe 39 47F

