# 104-10300-10201

## Page 1

104-10300-10201

otrocians

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date:

Page:

02/18/98

1

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10300-10201

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

CIA

NOBEL, JOHN D.

HEADQUARTERS

WITHHELD

03/11/64

14

OSWALD, L.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1A, -1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

01/27/98

OSW-SF: F6 1998.01.27.10:47:02: 763092: THIS IS ORIGINAL OF

THE

"PREVIOUSLY SANITIZED DOCUMENT" PROCESSED UNDER 104-10300-10199.

ARE 2 COPIES OF THE SAME 7 PAGE REPORT.

THERE

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

DocId: 32373221

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY

District Fleld Office

11 March 1964

MENORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Headquarters

4/262

622

C

SD/1

1. Reference 1s made to Headquarters letter of assignment in

this case dated 4 larch 1964.

2. During the period 20-28 February 1964, nile SUBJECI was

under the protective custody of Special Agents Stanley C. LACH,

George R. BRUVER and Alfred B. MCGARRAGITY, SURJECT voluntarily

furniched information concerning his background and activities,

as well as other information or operational interest, the substance

of which is set forth in the succeeding paragraphs:

It is to be

noted that at no time did any of the above-named agents solicit

any or this information or make inquiries of the SUBJECT regarding

any of the matters discussed by him. SUBJECT spontaneously related

these incidents in cosual conversation during leisure periods and

while enroute with the agents to and from places of entertainment etc.

In most cases newspapers, magazines and IV programs prompted the

SUBJECT to make conments relative to these matters.

Following 1s

a summarization of this information:

SPORTS, HOBBIES

(a) On 20 February 1964 SUBJECT disclosed that he enjoys the

following sports: football, hockey and billlards.

FOREIGN TRAVEL

munity of the

(b) He also revealed that he has previously been in the United

States while encoute to Cuba, Venezuela and other Latin American

countries.

He has at one tine or another during his service with the

riB vicited and worked on operational projects for the soviet Union

in pracüically all of the countries of Europe; however, he has never

SEGRET

DocId: 32373221 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

TO BE OPENED BX ADDRESSIE ONLE

District Fleld Office

11 March 1964

MEVORANDOM FOR: Headquarters

SUBJECT

7262 622

SD/1

I. Reference is made to Headquarters letter of assignment in

this case dated 4 March 1964.

2. During the period 20-28 February 1964, winile SUBJECT wan

under the protective custody of Special Agents Stanley G. LACH,

George R. BRUNER and Alfred B. McCARRAGHY, SUEJECT voluntarily

furnished Information concerning his background and activities,

as vell as other information of operational interest, the substance

of which is set forth in the succeeding paragraphs.

It is to be

noted that at no time did any of tho above-named agents solicit

any of this information or make inquiries of the SUBJECT regarding

any of the matters discussed by him.

SUBJECT spontaneously related

these incidents in casual conversation during leisure periods and

while enroute with the agents to and from places of entertainment etc.

In most cases newspapers, magazines and TV programs prompted the

SUBJECT to make conmente relative to these matters. Following 1s

a sumarization of this information:

SPORTS, HOBBIES

(a) On 20 February 1964 SUBJECT iisclosed that he enjoys the

following sports: football, hockey and billiards.

FOREIGN TRAVEL

venityat the

(b) He also revealed that he has previously been in the United

States while enroute to Cuba, Venezuela and other Latin American

countries.

He has at one time or another during his service with the

KOB vicited and worked on operational projects for the Soviet Unton

In practically all of the countries of Europe; however, he has never

SECRET

DocId: 32373221 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

1/262 622

SD/1

said that he was active In the picking up of agents by plane and

ship in this area.

FAMILY BACKGROUND

(c) In the latter part of the evening on this same date,

20 February 1964, the SUBJECT stated that his father was a member

of the Cormuniat Contral Committee, one of the first members of

the Communist Farty, and that he had great respect for his father.

The SUBJECT also indicated that his father was a shipbuilder and

later becane one of the first to organize and set up the hussian

Atonio Energy Plant.

It was during this latter activity that he

(the SUBJECI's father) and three other officials came in contact

with radiation, which affected his father's liver and a few years

later at the age of 54 his father died of cancer. The SUBJECT

wen't on to state that his father, being a very prominent Conmunist,

was given treatment for this cancer in a special hospital which is

located in the hills outside of the city of Moscow, and during his

tenure in this hospital the fantly resided with his father. They

had Live roon Ilving quarters beside the room in which his father

was confined

This privilege, he said, Is only given to the especially

prominent VIPs of the Communist Farty, Indicating that his father vas

one of the top men in the Communist Party.

MILLAR ACHIVIIY

(a) The SUBJECT revealed that in 1949, at the age of 16, he was

a Naval Cadet -

He tas called into the service before graduating from

what is our equivalent of a high school. He had taken part in the

fighting In the Black Sea Area where he described hand-to-hand conbat

wIth Gernans, claired he was wounded, and because of his bravery he

ras avarded the Soviet Order Medal and the Order of Stalin.

The SUBJECL

stated this was unusual for a person of his age and gained him great

respect. At the end of the war he had no more desire for military life

although his superiors tried to keep him in the military. Instead, he

vent for four years to the Institute of Foreign Relations and learned

the English language. Uyon graduation, a man cane to him and told hin

that he had a job llaed up for him.

He stated that this actually tas

nore like being ordered to take this particular job which tured out

SECRET

DocId: 32373221

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

17262 622-

SD/2

to be with the Naval Intelligence.

He claimed that there were tro

military intelligence organtzations at the time, the laval and the

Ground Force military type,

LE OSWALD IT RUSSIA

(e) On 23 February 1964, as SUBJECT approached the table for

the evening meal, he noted that the Time magazine lying on the coffee

table in the living room had a picture of Marie OSWALD. As he sat

down he hit the table with his list and sald,

"I feel that I could

have stopred OSWALD", At this point Special Agent Stanley C. TACIl

asked him "how!". lle proceeded to state that he (SUBJECT) was head

of the KCB Tourist and Visitors Section which kept control over the

activitles of OStALD while he vas in the Soviet Union. He said at

the time, OSTALD was of no special concern or interect to the KGB

because he lacked Inteligence backeround therelore, When he eppited

Cor permission to leave hussia, they (KGB) under his (SUBJECT) dizectiou

informed OSWALD that he would have to make his application through the

appropriate channels of the State Department, who In turn vould request

his velcase from the Russian counterparts in handling of visas.

* This

ho said vas all done for propaganda and show purposes, He went on to

done on the spur of the moment, but since OSWALD had nothing and vas

not worch anything, they decided that this was an opportunity to show

the Anerican State Department that they did not mind releasing individ-

uals it they applied for release through the appropriate channels.

Prior to this application for release of OSAID, the SUBJECT stated

chat since he vas or no particular satezest co then and there was

nothing in Moscow that they could use him for or place him into, they

decided that they would send OSWALD to lilnsk where he would be placed

in a factory working on mdios in the hope that some training in the

clectrical and clectronic field might result in his development into

an electronies engincer; however, he showed no capability in this field.

The sUBJICT then stated that it was just at this period, before sending

OSWALD to ilinak,

that a very strange thing happened.

OSHALD was supposed to have a meeting with a travel agent in regard

to preparations for his going to Minsk at 4 o'clock in the afternoon.

At 6 o'clock he still did not report to the travel agent, so the travel

agent decided to do to the hotel where OSWALD was steying to see if he

could locate him.

When he cot to the hotel he asked the clerk it OSWALD

SECRET

one one

DocId: 32373221 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

7262

622

SD/M

was in his room, the clerk nodded affimatively, and the travel agent

proceeded to OSWALD's roOm. He tried the door, but the door was locred.

le knocked, got no response, and then with the assistance of the ciet

they broke Into the room and found OSWALD lying across the bed with both

of his wrists slashed.

The travel agent and the clerk responded trmediately

by taking OSWALD to the near-by medical facillty where he was alven blood

transfusions and after a period of time regained his strength. During the

Investigation the following day the SUBJECT stated that the doctor indicatod

that had OSWALD not been found for approximately ben more minutes, he vould

have been dead. It is here that the SUBJECT agaln pounded the table and

said it the travel agent had not broken into the room, but had instead

contacted the KGB office ilke they are lascrucied to when they do not

get any response from people tich waom they heve appoingnents, chas he

(SUBJECI) would have most likoly dirocted the travel agent to zorget

about him, and on the following dey or later that evening he would have

sent one of the KGB agents to check on OSAID, at which time he vould

have been found dead

This, he went on to state, 1s what hurts him

then he realizes that he could have been instrunonial in disposing of

OSWALD without any special inquiry or serious investigation, OSWAID

being nothing, and at the same time today the President of the Untted

States, President KENNDy, would be alive. The SUBJECT then went on

to state that after OSVALD was sent to Minck it was thore that ha mot

Marie. Like himself (OSWALD), Marie vas a girl fron a peasant famtly

with no special background and sonewhat illiterate. It was because

of her poor background that she was given permision to marry OSWALD

and return to the United States as his wife.

The SUBJECT then went on to describe what took place on the day

that President KulaDY was assassinated, le said that this was actually

He was home at the time

the United States had beon assassinated. Approximately one hour later,

the zadio Informed him that the assesein vas Lee OSWALD. This announcement,

he said, zeally stunned hin. He grabbed his coat and dached to his office.

Immediately upon his arrival he searched for the OSWALD file.

When: ho

found the file he revieved it and found that OSMAID had not been ured

or even arproached for use by the Russian Intelligence.

He put in a

long distance call to the Chief of the KOB Section in Minsk and inguired

whether they had uned, trained or prepared OSWALD in any voy for intell

gence activity.

The Chiel inforned him that according to what he could

recall, they hed not mace any use of osvArbe: dust about this time, he

(SUBJECT) stated that his superlos talkod Into the offico and dircated

SECRET

malians

DocId: 32373221

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SEGRET

1262

C SD/3

the SUBJECT to get all the information available on OSWALD and prepare

a sunmary to be fumiched the top officiala of the Communist Party.

The SUBJECT then directed the KGB Agent in Minsk to likewise prepare

a summary of his file on OSVALD and inforned him that vithin twenty

ninutes a KGB agent vould arrive by special military plane to pick

up the summary for retum to Moscow.

He said this vas accomplished,

and within one hour they vere preparing a detailed report on OSkALD's

activity In Russia. This, concluded the SUBJECT, Is the story of

OSWALD in Fussia:

C. P. AFEILIATION

(e)

The SUBJECT also Indicated that he did not Join the Conist

Party unust he vas 21 years old, and he did this out of respect to his

facher, who at the time was on his death bed and asked him (SUBJECT)

whether he would do him one more favor before he died. That is how

the SUBIECT stated he joined the Conmunist Party. Ochemise, he probably

would not have been a member to this day.

DIPTONES AND INTELLIGIICE TYPES

(g) The SUBJECT stated that the KGB are able to differentiate

botween Anericans who are assigned to Moscow and are actually the

State Departnent type, fron those who have an Intelligence background,

by the fact that the intelligence type of people do not associate vich

the Russian girls, that is they will not go out with them alone, wereas

the State Department type will, Also, over a period of a month or two,

thoy invartably are able to find evidence that the intelligence types

have been masturbating This is usually detected through close exam-

ination of the Individual's tovels and bed sheets.

RUSSIAN U -1 AIRCRAFT

(h) On 25 February 1964 during the evening meal, a discussion vas

had regarding the recent airplane crashes noted in the nevspapers and on

TV in the United States.

The SUBJECT commented that he has a lot of

Iriends who are test pilote and who are now engagca in testing what be

referred to as a l-l type of alrcraft that is faster than any other

aircraft in the vorld.

He added that these friends are highly paid

but they have very dangerous jobs.

SECRET

DocId: 32373221

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

#262 622

C

SD/1

SUBJECI'S FATHER

(1) The SUBJECT also made reference to his father during this

meal, describing him as a very tall and extremely well-built inaividual,

and one who was extremely intelligent and a self-made, self-edueated

man. He learned the shipbullding trade mostly through his own research

first shipbuilders in Fussia. The SUBJECT added that his grandfather

died at the age of 94. He also stated that after the death of his

father, a memorial was built in his memory since he was considered

a very capable director of the government shipping industry.

vas about the last time he saw his mother and brother and steter, as

they all went to this ceremony in honor of his father.

He also

Indicated that there was a periodical which gave a complete run-down

on his family background, including that of his grandfather and his

father, and it was well publicized; and this he belleves had a lot

to do vich his being able to get sone special preference and nove

along as fast as he did in the KGB organization.

KGB FRISSURE ON FAMILL

(3) On 27 February 1964 during lunch, the SUBJECT stated that he

has been Informed that the KCB is putting pressure on his immediace

family, particularly his mother. However, he said he was not overly

worried about her because she is vell-off financially, and being up

In age there is not mich they can do to her. However, what conceras

him most is the fact that they have already started to play on the

sympathles of his two children and his wife.

The SUBJECt stated that

he was anticipating this; however, he did not think that they would

start so soon to pressure the family.. However, he does have some hope

that in due time he may be able to get his family out of Russia. This

hope he said was given to him by the Chier of SR Division.

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS PENEURALION

(k) On 25 February 1964 during a sightseeing tour of Wachington

by venicies

as we passed the Library of Congress, the SUBJECT pointed

to the building and stated that

"ve have people working in there".

Special Agent Stanley C. IACH said, "who is

answered,

"KGB"

"we'p" and the SUBJECD

• He continued by stating that this was a good place

to place

people because they could roadily learn by just ratching

what research was being done in the llbrary of Congress by the military

SECRET

-G-o

DocId: 32373221 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SEGRET

1262 622

SD/1

and thereby get an idea as to what the military was planning in the

way of armaments and things of that nature.

The SUBJECE also advised

that the responsibility for getting information surreptitiously fron

American Embassies in foreign countries who employ indigenous personnel,

falls within the contines of the KGB.

He stated that the way they go

about this Is to work through the Indigenous personnel and arrange to

enter the embassy at special times during the night. They would first

make a close survey and a photograph of the area in which the embassy

keeps its classified material, then they would subsequently enter this

When he was asked how this vas done he

ared an on, unbinat one to sense at had to acquire he sata

that the important and difficult part of this activity is taking the

naterial out and photographing it and then placing It exactly as it

was before they touched it.

LOHT

NOBLE

Special Agent it Charge

Carch CA

SECRET

DocId: 32373221

Page

---

