# 104-10133-10355

## Page 1

104-10133-10355]

r..

cadgarters

772 1952

507337

excusal agents in Gaudges

12EUDIG, Coraid P.

42729229

= - 9015

1, Tes cli contie verbal assipment ni this maitar en

Jou Orase on 2 robrtary 1952, Readquartera Mas designated

c"eles or crigin.

2, On tice above date, you vere advised that the los

toles Sourty Serica's office had Iscovered a 05 salibe:

To so sistol, serial 1504091 - 51, from a sar in th los

ageles nasa on 30 january 1962.

shortly thereatter, captioner

11,206.

or rosides aù 1239 3. Atlantis Boulevard, Alhambra,

Caromit, appeared at the shoricals offlee to slain bre pistal.

:: Subed biat be tas i GOunth agent. to vas on a training

atusion in connéction with an assigarant ained at 2iba.

resecaentig, this natter mus brougat to the attention

want too the leuser coquested the coring cirise to esp

11s isolaent oot to the perspecess toile. they abbernted to

•09

The Lantasy or the Subjeoi

You were ai30 Enigmad

cue be tocal to DD difice led egresual an interest in

70C9054

Geadquarters fies reflect that the jicjeci was born

0n nan 1:37 aù 103 Angelos, Calicomiz.

waved in the 8. 5. Marine Cors Izm 1054 • 1253; Bre Cuban

my und tir Force 1955-1060, and was an instructor it i

Tatia

anarcos outfie.

ojach has disolaved a keen interest

in treans and para military type ascirities. Ica 19va

sed chob loaderartors Clins conbained no recori of mbjee.

car ning been amloyed ith Gerra in any capacity.

14/5

APPASED FOR RELEASE 1993

Pete A 59-

CIA WISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAMS

---

## Page 2

"3922?

5. Pha tes NOBLEs Do OPTICa, as an suriliary Cteier,

wrested to ronder the lolaring suppor:

1i lus inzelas, Balliania

contact the overt Galin fiabd office in ascerizin

it the aroranentioned lacta are entirely accurate.

Cotain, 2: p0ss2018,

a cony of tha Sherit's repor

concoming this saitor.

6. Iou vers questei to talmhonically apprise readquartarg

•I tha rosults ci four irestigation.

7. Thin will also confim your verbal rebig oi 5 February

1952, iktei reclocted in substance trai the Subter, did not claim

omployment rich olars, but that be had obtained said seagon

trea Golita in Aloul, Florida, approcately nine months a50.

B. En 5 Fabriary. 1962, jou were furthar isquested to kar

1io overt itint lasid orits interren the Sioject 17 an

stori, to datamine too Sirinstatues Jumpurian, 330 2rC0333-

went or bes weston.

?. ¿aur iiiven ispor is tais aactar jaria da foraried

so Beadquarters as aCon a9 possible.

PAU

Abbachnent:

ComboL Lards

6 'Sob, 1952

PAIDLG

---

## Page 3

Offs, Memorandar •

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

03

44 27229

2345 216 44

3.

'ipt

---

## Page 4

14-00000

miGraDi tos Chiai, 20/Cocvacta

wara?

ico toroi: Calano?, 20c7 423, 1717 2 Jeer

Caputy Teoctor of Sacurisy 1572s7754410 37

5 3/302

432. 29 229

insono del this elios cald usuruary 1662 cresciug

macine in mediedio 3001di 00l Mains tart

italianio 12r 1016arid8 -ing

escutia

is record 13 recaried ca 004180 O266e 22906% 197

cread cachris

ti Suggire

wd0a3 10? 24830066"

20x-1a00 di 190 kind or uniroriae nig to indiy ceacha7-

Lo es e comation enorda aoi do désoniraed coistia

in tanar ersich to bo barou 1a tais 2a:092 pnlest

pido: 1a 134.

il SD

A.

Canod le Caderay 17e?

r..

---

## Page 5

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

(CATEGORY ON REPORT)

(FIELD OFFICE)

CASE NO.

29 229

Hamiro, Gorald p.

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

2: 7 February 1902

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

15 February 1952

116/330A27.375

BEPORT MADE. BY

Daln B. Criteside

CHAPACTER OF CASE

I SD/5

APPROVED:

tini

SPECIAL ASENT IN CHARGE

DISTRIBUTION:

1045 - 1

JAM: - i

F. 60 616 per

PREVIOUS

5.

---

## Page 6

SYNOPSIS

it Los ingeles, California:

Renst LaIDACHER, Chief, Cacito:

ci operations, advised chat susoul, Cerala P. Mateo, has

to his office since approxirately Catober 1900 and icon tal

ta tina has furnishad roports anil infomation conceming Cuban.

activities.

On 30 January 1902, SUBJECT appeared 26 tu L05 AgeL'S

County Shariff's Office and claimed a lis-calibar automatic pistol

which had hasn found in a parked automobile.

He repertodly

svisod tao Snoriff's bifice tnab the sun had bea isouad te

by too benceal Intelligence Agency in Miani, Morida.

Upon interriew by tr. Iciao lan's offica, SuBBeT furti

intomatico ceasemaing his possession and acquisition of thi.

230r.

Details are set forta.

Attached as Brioits 1 and 2 ara reports cocaining ti

ration on SuBBU froM tr. ICIANCHO? oifico and do Emibi

a ruport from the Los Angeles County Jeriit's Office on the

noova-mantioned pisiol incident.

6.

REPORT NO.-

FENG 1125

12:3

---

## Page 7

i 3765

1,29 229

15 February 1962

C211211:

so los Anueles, California:

On 2 lebruary 1952, Ur. urnst balenchen, Chief, Clare

of Coerations,

interviewed in his office, 403 lest cin

strget, concerning

the SuBUReT, Cerald P. lettle, and

furnished the rolloring information:

SUBJbet has been known to lir. LEIACHER'S offica sire

aperosinately Potober 1960 when he voluntarily contacted tha

oilice and furnished cartain information concerning acuivitias

From tima to tima since then SUBJECT has iurnister

alditional information which has been forwarded to Hashirgta,

D. C. in tho form of reports of interest to the agency.

Po. ISINGER furnished copies of an initial undated

report and brographical duta containing background intormatio

on s.Bubol and a report dated 31 March 1901, wich are atteured

as ischibios 1 and 2.

InD Cia: advised Paul &. ISiDRICKSON of his office

had had many conticts with the subudor in the Los angales a..

pries to nis (hb.D.ucksod's) transfer to taeir Seabela ofts.:

Sine: thai time ogd. ". D. endured of Latonere's octico i.:

osen designated for contact vito the suedait.

Within the past due echo, SobBeT furnisnad cAcau:

with a large envalope markeii,

"Cubana Perolucion", or sone

such legend on it, anci it containod all sorts of plans for

training Cuban guerillas. Subuzur clained to have been raking

with the Office of Naval Intelligence and said that he nac

also been in contact with the Federal Burseu of Investigation

in Miani, Floridi.

According to LEIBACHER, SUBJECt has never claimed to

nave

worked for tha Contral intelligence gency.

ric. Lalicted wont on to relate tuat no 30 donuary 1062,

ottien corsirod a telephone

call fron the Los angelse

-I-

7.

---

## Page 8

County Suorict's Orrice to the efcect that a 15-caliber

balcopiny to or Haslia DODD and that snortly thareafter

¿sidl bad contacted he Sherifê's Uifice and clained this

rock was his om. SUbJECt reportedly irforned the

excite's Office that the gun had been issuad to him by

tho Gantral Intelligench Agency in Miuni, Forida.

Attached as ishivit 3 is a copy of the los ingeles

County Scariff's report on this incidant, which was obtained

i?ch

r. Latchetor.

On Mabruary 1952, Mr. LETBACHER was again contacted

nd advised that Sgt. PirBulei of his office had interviewed

the 363J8CT on 5 Fnuruary 1052 and obtained the following

incomptien concering his possession and acquisition of thr

abore-nantioned pistol.

saunty claimed that he was issued the 45-caliber

etonabLe pistol about le months age by a Cuban nemed 11

•Who had cutained perrassion from

SUS: was reported to have been with tie

7275: ot l oer grouyi and to have spent considerable tina

It was SUBJECT'S understanding that SOs.

??: Anoin to the Central. Intelligence agency.

lun for possibly ünree) guns were issued to Sußubei

ind his colorto, one of them

a former OSS-type, lianed DavEc,

i sas also mid io be connected ith ine "30th of Norarb."

brough.

Susobot stated that those weapons mad been issued

to then bocause other underground uban groups in Miami had

coon "giving them trouble" by putting sugar in gas tanks

and tossing small grenades in their quarters.

Suboper claired that ha leio his 45-autonatic Distoi

in hum unen ho cons to tha los angeles area several weeks

ago, but that one ot is colleagues, who arrived in los Angolas

shortly before the police incident, had brought the gur with

iB.lo0t had then left the gun in DOlD's iaroor shop

co valley Bimlevird.

=2=

Mailer

8.

---

## Page 9

had lifted the gun froin the barber shop and had "glanter"

it in ir. CODD'S automobile. Ha then told ir. DODD (tca

barber) not to expect any sleep that night and called iho

Sheriff's Sifice ic suggest that they search this automobile:

SUbruCT stated that since he had requested Mr. DuDD

noü to aunit any knowledge of the gun, he (subtli) nad to

presunt hirself at the Shariff's Office and tell them that

the gi was his in order to get la. Dobi "off the hook with

tre polico".

SUBJECT added that as far as he knew he was no longer

in trouble with the Sheriff's Offica over this incident

bird scated that ne does not expect to get the gun back.

Attachnents:

lixhibits 1, 2 and 3

EHR: CVC

-3-

---

## Page 10

d-innos

TERRY P. RECING, M

EE-US MARDD HO SERVED IN CIBIN ARUY NND TE FCROR,

FODUA2Y 1959 - JNR 1960

1. i telapione call recently was received by E. Leibacher, Crif of

Chr Los Angelos Finld Office, from a men who identified hinself is Jurry

Nornings Jr.,

ul' 2433 Wist Valley Blrd., Alhanbra, Coliforni::

li.".

Wring reported that he was an ix-us karine tho hed recentlyr

?utr::

I. ühe U5 tron Oiba whore he hud serrer sons 18 montho in the Cia

lnraire0y Regiarnt) ani the Cihon die More, (sue coclonne 7:"i.

Aic

Disa oil subjero.)

2e On 11 Ceo, 1960 (and Jubsoquenbly on 12 Ocü. and 21 0e.. 1.)

f.odhn on E

Tos Angeles Oftice contasted Manning, tho re."

I:Toningo

W: 2u9e high schocl in tho wildle of his junior vere i jrn

Metulurine Corce (enliobed 29 122. 1954, 0,406,267), Herery

1Os2

ii tiee wark of burgeont

and during the liter portior o1 nas to:

Macrrgod on 17 Giei. 1933, he cutendad Buinbridge Naval deadeny Tragiertory

w"to.?.

M2006 Clainod to hove beon accopied into the Naval Ray viriccr

Prraáno Corpo oubrenjunte to his astomiance nù Bainbridge anü k 20205,11

nao slmed to atirel the Univeraity of Missouri.

3. Hle charged hin wind and decided not to rubor the RROTC pest.

oonao: ic mabui do engege in Spacinl Forees type activity. M: wid

itrt ho tried somal tirio to obiein troining ot this tyos ct Fr, 80253

nd Fi. Beining bor tr ves noù micocosrol. Hu ther deciand to lrare ühs

2eaae ootrid dhe bilence es hii tour ct the loel loaear mmila,

lia l1rn5 sotluned to Callioenia in Oetober 1958 and vorti di variono

p10 2003 1n00.22108 beary labor, as ne pui it i.

2:12

J? Puoo 1059. Hue camono ros arirg to duba con nor congäcteld trot tlole

ii eece iriber Goon dois the reitre nolioue tbey are coug

iirgo nrind)y wut

wong the urasen tedorordld tre the citsi

'':

de crarure;

A ibros, dosico to experionoe tho eaciteacne aod gii?d

wnt curblowd old Curslle unrikre, ohl tie 0221"1:

do gaiu rsperionos in this field.

The opportunity to conbino the ebore muntioned dosiro cit!!

ilenbifiout ion with a "justl cause.

i dasiro to see for hiaseli that vas going cu in duer, 102

puidbly to carve e nicho for hinouli frea wich he night o: bi:

to intuuro labce drveloparits.

; we mo mate, kewtng racorodla bluilud his my into wre tlbrt trüs

ch 2o100 connchhono having m on aare an tre US. he claarodoE%s

cromnlod onrjsinle in iba Cuinn Counsolls cifico in los ingolt tois io

ln deariro ml rl.o to bare tal.ad to a fua 20ch of July Lorchai:iabers

ia:2uding, e (Ge:) Tasenos, bat recelvert no heln there.)

10.

---

## Page 11

is indirrised a pass for him.

He balled to a nurbur of Cuba.:

cludingi do (dio) Castillo and haj. Cuilo Cienduegos.

The la,

2 mode hir

nico Buro2uet Gonoa, E Fu. Burning Erained Officer (2010 c: 1947)

porta Pienire, c

Pirabross Paginat.

nate, tre l rota

: obieiner onders fros

"Cavitos detarling hin i"

Potabin 0n officere

stri ton tha bott ontil Decerber 195P. M heloed troin peroi; Erat

enrio de Zoc Banos dir Foreo Dose and later neto Sen da.

2l omn chare 35 tales douthesse of Marana on tho contral t

C-B 19p0r':5

(Sce

For FPI

che coon Inde in tribial debriors.

calmiel frould: mili be formardsd, if cusirnd.)

lEnnoop Migliont ted Obriously boser? down in training and

P: mus stations at Sun dulian sir Forco Ba: (Innctivo)

arra he 2ry Pitrolo ma lolped train tililia turing the day and Diti d00s

rocomacasance prirolo against the arcicovolitionarios ai night. le obbainad

1r? fron bhe Cubon Ma Force di ni-duna 1960 (bebucon Ju ail 19 une)

anl Castag lo2b Murano abou 21 Aug. 1960. He fion do Lexico City aly2

cedend tuare unbil 30 Ago 1960 when ho enterna the Ue via Son incidio, Taxas.

9. chile in the Gubar: Arro, Honning bocane imoled in a cub os

intocustod, in counting an infasi. di Niccata

1.c: 011n

white tuo debalis of thin story as reinted by laudad ottensat

"ord the boote polline de rondares follod.

"eutroop Ragione te dur"

cree edition to tearagli.

bas t5 de Laming's troopues

waita.

1

cho

somaleen oi aria cor mel-Caccio evolutimaries ad alio to avaraso Castro

be ticino hia poliutealle to a nore one designed to overtion Prolunt parone

in Ricarag la.

J0. The expedition nover loft Cuon and Farfan's min vere ca buror in

anagley souchine during dipberber 1955.

Homing alloged thrt this bertive

expottica cot

": Unteresed in Mic"ceguan activitios in Cuba ort in decidid

tran: cit more thoub thon both

Por his pun backgrant mul tostag io

?l, Mening ecotioned contace with Chestor Iguaze, de cosa indi 41s

100608 de due tare in dashirgton, des oni do vas abiceriag e

•acu

aimn ins flon to the boinicon Repelare; endi

•.e)

Raccorar

---

## Page 12

14-00000

of ex-presides Sonoze and cho no tored cloady moh Preten trot crook

occurrid bites Frisbonind Frion in. Doccuber 1659.

1i. Muring we corested by the Cuban Ge? on or about 15 cly 1610

1d with perioars and l mold baroned whoa trering descilar

Mused To won in the Micragum horeoint located in Honkwasy. I 1.10s

cahill or dooub line digs and thon role wed.

Frisions,

i treat te in Sake had applind precover to the cubitt

¿: codor to provor, tes robarn to Hoodaros and/o" Nicaragus.

13. torin; 12oo noted that dejeoro Lactines Wrote colas

th: lurior of i covlution cy column (ironto Rurolnskoannin Sit:

i?!

montly ma caped in elecents of the Houduren Amy.

Alair: 111.12

corsidly in son in prison in Honduras.

crod in Pricipalps when they turned over sore counded Mic.":.

in the Mondarin An"

I!. Thoro to du cioune were canovad front & loakuren DittE: 140r001

undar that my 10-26

".i!!

CIA or FBT dificials wore instrunental in boring these too con treated oo

k1.• US.

Hire dates the in sis opinion the both merely

He commotos there too amric ninth a ficti

ni recriting for

15. Bonairo elijas to bo sterlino be in aabicination poo 10e: 20

.203

.!?i

cockte who have bold him that the Counter-on Coness Corps Core'

ty Communiots and no cnorius of the Ore.

Haming concrood thet both the

Inaliand brothers tol Friniones were wra nuch aöraid that any wen

cipitiud in Nicoragua would nerely open the door for the Nionrapna: Coarn-

ists in Cube to move in and exploit the chaotic riturion to thes co lomfito.

1ó. Morning my have decidol to contact Cli because of rendle 2u.

uy a agi. lio Busto eud By Di. Francisco Frisiones.

solin no mos a fugitive fron the Castro regina cher Hairing 176 402;

reportodiy mid

that. Cal helped out in Guatrald and that i rowt!";

rood thing de the coall tao oub in Cuba. Dre Fricions statery tad:

Licago hat inen con to right in contacting US Secretar or S51

Marts in an itosage to clici support for Jacagors Nicouguan crow

12.

---

## Page 13

₴:

17. like de is ditricult to assurs Homing's true notiv: tree past

actiribles

i poseibly well more difficult to ascortaim thor: thor:12e

logabico lie, de ises agonar ther he might be nserul aither cutta tie

nast dilure.

Posa conversations to date (three short sossions?

ii'3

wet deeming do bol so closely allied with his Nic raguon fini

rod face

incible do concontraus his attention clienhar.

!:: in-

tarant in Saraind. Foreas tope nativity conears to transend ol

bares.6, end do gob bly lould pot borttubo to pedma to Cubet

-1111

Pi ritionle in diacssins his competion id lasted tort-

was (With round proces, tirs in dirdly ith his (ing tra

Sent dirain od nickliganes operations connected with revolt

twing taoins that the bo choold utilier a more cored

ah in cunly Seage,

tair positions ot real influence chia d. 1wh1di0091

.:: 1:10

or al norst leack dobricantal to US intere."

tie invitate Call of President. Soco. ia Nicaragu: rod,

this ins mill be barght mont bi the Martinez problero.

enco guan oer chagals or Cormunist telecoves inheront in the orcaro oi

Percident, Senoco, and he hopes that the üs will m luck to preterna

pro ably through the ms of prople tike himself.

19. Herwing mintains that ho is "firot arl forenost" thie",

i tunt hi trus Jogaltd armins with this contry.

This tig

arily t hs roopid. for thr superior mality exubled by the

ure la do anale lo noted that his resis soars to bad oce

comrad he hrs rved cith in the past. He cacare to ba 2111 datoo acad

minep bodinis in Jonocratie princians.

13

---

## Page 14

NAME:

HENNING, Jarry Patrick Jr.

ÜiRT.: 1 March 1937 Los Angeles, Calif.

SEx : Mule

CICILT SHIP: US

RESTANCES:

idd-pen 59 to 21 Alg 6D

Cuba.

Served with Cuban Army, Fui • Dee 1959

Servei with Cuban Air Force, Dec 1959 -

June 1960

Remained in Havan; until 21 My 1950

Mexico City, Exact address not known.

2433 West Vailey Blva,. Alhanora, California

21 dug 60 to 30 Aug 60

30 ANg 60

I'resent

EMPLOL DR:

19 Ape S4 to 17 Oct 58

1l Oct 53 to miJ-job 59

mid-Fab 59

to mid-Jun 60

mil. Jun 50 En 21 dug 60

:! Aug 60 to present

EDUCA 1109:

El Motte Union Pigi School

8l donta, Caliâvania

US Marina Corps - No. 1438247

• Odd jobs at los Augeles, Californi

Served with Cuban Army and Air Zorce

Unemployed, residing in Havana

Unemployed.

Left in middle of Junior your te

join US Marine Crops.

Enclosure to I4-23939 (00-A-(5))

---

## Page 15

+ 55=1

31. March 1961

SUBJECT: Gerald P. Herming, Jr. Moves to liani to Engage in Anti-Castro

1. Gerald Patrick Henning, Jr. (erroneously referre: to in C0-4(5) -3, 170, 536

as Jercy P. Henning, Jr.) Informed Hendrickson of the Los Angeles Fieli office

61.

Hizing stated that he was going to contact Jimmy Gentry, 953 S.W. Lann St.,

Api. 8, Miami, Florida (Telephone: FRanklin 4-3255) and

that these two nen vere

tà..: going to proceed with a plan of action aired at orgainizing a and group

of professionals' (experienced revolutionaries) who would attempt to conduel:

certain reconnaissance operations on the mainland of Cuba via paracine: drops

and eicher lighü plane or water pick-ups. Hemming also stated he wanted to

do what he could in Miami to attempt to unite the anti-Castro forces these and

also to lessen the influence of a number of "mercenaries" who had joined various

of those movements and were doing it more harin

much of the available money.

2.

The available background information on Herming. was furalahed in

L4-2.3939 (00-4(5) -3,170,536).

Some additional Information is included

the attached Application for Conmission or Warrant Rank, US Navy or New!!

Reserve, filled out by Henning during his tour with the US Marine forps and

dac=l 23 Jun 58. Heuming also clains to hovo been officially chested ou

on nunerous aircraft while serving with tho Cuban Air Foice during ric irst

half of 1950 including the L-20, EF-47, Ar-ú, Cessna 170 and Piper Printar.

E: does not have a la commercini or privaco pilos license. In aidici.:, ":

reporscaly maintained an interest in parachuting during his rocent

Los Angeles (September 1960-liarch 1961), and claimed to have jumped ar leas:

once a monch with one of the local parachute and skydiving elubs.

3. The above information is passed on because it appears likoly chat the

Agency may wish efther (1) to make certain that no amateur reconnaissance

operations directed at Cuba are undertaken, or (2) in one way or anocher to

guide such activities to maximize their usefulness.

4. On the basis of several debriefing sessions with Henning, Hendrickson

is inclined to believe that Henming is both sincere and scrious in his dosi..

to assist the US Government, provided that this can be accomplished through

his continuing to act as a

"soldior of fortune". It is alvays possible, o. tle

ochor land, that he is still loyal to the Cuban Govaruent and at some future

date will atterpt to embarrass the US.

The information which Herming furnished during his stay in Los lageles

was disseminated in the following reports:

00-33-3, 169,985

3,169

, 982

3,170,124

(Evaluated 5, 1 & 6, 3)

3

1 &

2, 2, 2

26, 3)

15.

---

## Page 16

00-B-3,170,1%1

3,170,616

3.172,187

"3. 119,740

3,179,855

00-1(8) -3,170, 5.36

3,170,528

3,170,614

3,170,615

00-4-3, 178, 533

a review of these reporcs should give

night prove useful.

better idea

of whether or not lanning

= end.

Enel :

Form, "Application for Commission

or Warrant

lank, U.S. Navy or Naval Reserve" - Gerald

Patrick lieuning, Jr.

1-2.

16.

---

## Page 17

.?.

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT

F002: It. R. L. Wilber

Temple DE

Date: 1-30-62

file No. 3-781,031

TO:

Sheriff Peter J. Pitches;

(through channels)

NUBJRCE: FOUND GUN

A= 1:00 til, 1-30-52, acting on information iron the San Gabriel Pollus Deyartient,

who had in turn received a phone call from a man identifying himself only as

Tony, Deputies Ronald Warren and Robert Stewart, Car 54, proceeded to 7443

Ence Hallman Avenue, South San Gabriel, and contacted a Heslie Dodd. Thay

received parmission

from Mr. Dodd to search his automobile, a 1951 Packar!

parind at the locacion,

and discovered a Remington Rand 45

caliber automacic

pisirl, serial # 1504931, under a nattress in the back seat of the car. it.

Dodil. at the tine stated he knew nothing about the automatic and that he had no

idna how the pistol came to be in his car.

1c. Dodd said he knew a loony, with

sana na had has trudble over money matters, but he could not recall lony's

last nans or address.

A: 2:30 Mi, 1-30-52, & Gerald P. Henning Ji. of 3843 East Blanche 3t., Pasidana,

nabored Trople Stacion

and

informed us that the 45 aucomatic was his.

Pausing oratel the automatic was issued to him the the U. S. Coveranens Coarcal

incallierce doracy in Moni, Florida approximately nine nontes ago aul tha ha,

i Demine, bos been in training for a free-lance organizarion regraling a Cuban

investon.

Mr. ilerning stated he was a friend of Dodd's and that be ted luct me

pistol au Dold's Barber Shop and that it had disappeared from there.

This detail contactec Ceatral Intelligence igency, a Ile. DeVanon, sho said he

could neither confirm nor deny the issuance of this pistol to Mr. lemming; that

ne would appreciate no publicity be givon the incident and that he would coatact

Lt. Wilber of this detail tomorrow morning with further information.

---

