104-10126-10028)

Ste

a

SECRET

CLO

ECA

24 August 1978

[crepe

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Examination by Mr. G. Robert Blakey of Sanitized
Portions of History of Mexico City Station

1. At 1745 hours on 23 August 1978, Mr. Scott Breckinridge,

Mr. Norbert Shepanek and the undersigned met with Mr. G. Robert
Blakey, Chief Counsel of the House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA). The meeting took place in Mr. Breckinridge's
office. The purpose of the meeting, inter alia, was to make
available to Mr. Blakey certain sanitized portions of CS HP 329
(SECRET), a three bs mma Eh of the Mexico-City Station
covering the period Hs 1969. The portions selected for
sanitization were previously designated by Mr. Gary Cornwell as
yeing of interest to the HSCA. Mr. Rdwin Lopez, of the HSCA

-£, was also present, but did not have access to the Mexico
City Station material.

2, Mr. Blakey was furnished the following sanitized portions
of the Station history which he read in my presence:

vi Chapter II (C) - Station Expansion and
| 1969), consisting of pages 34 through 57.

b. Volume II, Chapter III (A-3) - The Cuban Embassy,
consisting of pages: 221 through 256.

c. Volume II, Chapter III (A-4) - Operational Support and
Technical Collection Activities, consisting of pages 257 through 298.

d. Volume II, Chapter III (B) - Covert Action Operations

(portion relating to Student operations. only), consisting of pages
327 through 336.

e. Volume IT e ar
(portions relating to Project
3.

é j
LTENVOY and LITEMPO only), consisting of pages 409 through 42

£. Volume III, Chapter X - Merida Base (1962 - 1965),

consisting of pages 485 through 494,

199780


oyun el Oaea (fen rites @

3. I assured Mr. Blakey that I would be happy to discuss
with him any of the deleted items and explain the nature of
the content and the reason for its deletion. I told Mr. Blakey
that since he was personally reviewing the material, and the
same would hold true for Mr. Cornwell, I felt that I could be
very candid in describing the deleted portions. Mr. Blakey
thanked me, but did not at any time raise any questions about
deietions. After he had finished his reflvew J repeated my
offer to discuss any portion of the material. He again thanked
me and said he had no questions.

4. Mr. Blakey did not indicate (nor did I ask) whether
he would continue to seek access to the entire three volume

history in its unsanitized form.
Gp : Vas i
Ld fey, Mpc [lw
Y} t te! Hawkins “
C/LA/MGSB

SuUCRLEUT
