# 104-10534-10106

## Page 1

104-10534-10106

SECRET

stel, sa/CI

st for 12ns

uport en 30

to

1963-

(8422 1959)

tons es ritutell to 1te entral oer foreiga.

ziny attention witt be given the perio

3 in the regat

DD/P/ESD/DB/2:D.

SEGRET-

63099 4

Excluded from automatc

doingrading and

declassification

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

T5D CORRURES ON OVIA (VIRA AND RRDOSERATTON ENCTION) OF THE USE

SHattes A. that 16 0V1118

tatol Came perve un entire oblait or repubise ruther thin

Just & elt

a rest a bat be to posa, a derived baloo

Sinse the fell of 1959 ond until septerber 1962

the CHeR

ta many clare the firut hotel reptetratien is al

but 1s planed in the tensat's passport mgardlens of th

ons deve been elled, Thore sa no inoma reason for the

buret, An "'atourlet" reprementativa, a

mtative et hotels my benita hotel regletrettens end the

e jangorts eaten reguire en OVIl extension

or conten

Tie:

not suro of orate sale in stepte hotel

Attachment Des

DB Memo To. 6631

2g -1

Eried:

de..

declasaltica.isr

---

## Page 3

13-00000

FERNER:

Attachment to: 13 No Io, 6631

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

The mutter

20 1

hmmaty on both rugtitation sad

tent mente

Lene wore 30006

Jesten Co there are the OVIE lacted 10 Mason?

Moves - Da Locatios el the 0VIH 1a lost ta union.

Quate Do IN BU 0738 Locate et estab of tie felonsees

Attachannes tor

EB Hone No, 6631

SALT

Manita

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Apper - Ilo information.

GeTRaye UptevienIge lllL18811, MVD SSER - ul. Opreva, 6

upravlentre Mlitals, HID REPER - UI. OgATeva, 6

Upsveniyo Vantrenutth Del Impolkan Masobitoveta - ul. Belinatoga, 3

Pasportagy Otdel UVD tapolton Mossblmorete - Durasovely Do, 11

Upravienige outreaiia Del Impaltons Hongartoreta - Fetronte, 38

resportugy Oldel UVD Inpalious Nongoreovete - lentagradukly Proey., 16

F80 UVD MOoDLIepallons - 2-8ya Nestchsantaya, 91

PHO UVD Hangorsepalton - Leniagradelege Sle, 22

6(0 to 100 a ming Total un one a - petrovica, 36

CHestion I. IN there on OVIR 10 Mnek!

wey - The milable Inforetion Inttentes that en OVIR vas

ted In Minuk In 1955- Its walldating enchat waber vas 309.

Moseow mann thnt he mut inave the countary by ulintght of tibe

Incoding date or au the date indicated?

Attachment tO: IS leno Mo, 6637

Fage ot

---

## Page 6

13-00000

meredes 20

moding thi

Ine the Us. It do To/Be bullet that

tatt hell may be mean day Inter).

"yall - Do the VENERA"

Amar - 1n/00 enot detecte the espaltionde of this note.

Attachmont tos

Ill leno 10, 6697

---

