104-10268-10008}

3.
4.

6.
7.

10.
11.

12.
13.

14.
15.

16.
17.

18.
19.

20.

21.

22,
23.

24,

25.

SECRET REPRODUCTI
m=  PROMIBITED

MEXI-9332, 6 May 1964 [duplicate of FOIA No. 683-391]

Memorandum passed to Mr. PAPICH of FBI with informa-
tion on photo coverage of embassies and information on
KOSTIKOV. [XAAZ-3590 - FOIA No. 182-621]

Cover sheet to MEXI-7034

HMMW-15488, 18 May 1967 ier 0 Ny.
Revepaves, REP REPROGE g ON if and Paul SCOTT
"CIA Withhe bu from Warren Commis-
mh aiTED

MEXI-9332 (IN PROLIA [FOIA No. 683-291]

DIR-18827, 4 May 1964 [FOIA No. 677-289]
DIR-87770, 9 December 1963 [FOIA No. 354-719]

MEXI-7067 (IN 68291), 26 November 1963 [FOIA No.
124-54]

Cover sheet to MEXI-7067 (from Mexico City File)

WAVE-8149 (IN 67731), 25 November 1963 [FOIA No.
101-573]

Cover Sheet to WAVE-8149 (from Mexico City File)
MEXI-7055 (IN 67620), 25 November 1963 [FOIA No.
89-33]

Cover Sheet to MEXI-70S5 (from Mexico City File)

MEXI-7054 (IN 67378), 24 November 1963 [FOIA No.
85-565]

MEXI-7054, 24 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)

DIR-84920, 24 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 65-25]

DIR-84920, 24 November 1963 [FOIA No. 65-25]

pet eh 23 November 1963 [duplicate of FOIA No.
‘9

MEXIS 7034 (IN 67231), 23 November 1963 [FOIA No.
1-575]

MEXI-7033, REPRODUET lexico City File)
including c of FOIA No.

55-546]

mun 7033 (IN PROM RITED. 1963 . [FOIA No.

ert pee (IN 67190), 23 November 1967 [FOIA No.
56-20

MEXI-7028, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
including cover sheet. [duplicate of FOIA No.
549

MEXI-7028 (IN 67187), 23 November 1963 [FOIA No.
58-549]

REPRODUCTION SECRET
PROMIBITED


13-00000

R

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.
33.

34.
35.
36.

37.

38.
39.

40.

41.

42.

43.
44,

45.
46.

47.
48.

49.

SECRET REPRODUCTION
-_ PROGIBITED

MEXI-7025, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 60-550]

MEXI-7025 (IN 67188), 23 November 1963 {FOIA No.
60-550]

MEXI-7024, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)

2 al en ae

62-24]

MEXI- 7023, Pron IBTCE Don Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 49-545]

MEXI-7023 (IN 67108), 23 November 1963 [FOIA No.
49-545]

DIR-84888, 23 November 1963 [FOIA No. 39-38]

DIR-84886, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of 40-541]

DIR-84886, 23 November 1963 [FOIA No. 40-541]
DIR-84821, 23 November 1963 [FOIA No. 51-18]
MEXI-7019 (IN 66846), 22 November 1963 [FOIA No.
27-10)

DIR-84802, 23 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of 26-8]

DIR-84802, 22 November 1963 [FOIA No. 26-8]

MEXI-7014, 22 November 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 29-12]

MEXI-7014 (IN 66781), 22 November 1963 (FOIA No.
29-12]
Memorandum for The Ambassador, dated 16 October 1963;

Subject: Lee OSWALD/Contact with the Soviet Embassy.
[TX=1919 - FOIA No. 9-5]

rotate REPRODUCE Mexico City File)

MEXI-6534 Pet Bye ber 1963 [FOIA No. 8-4]

DIR- 74830, ‘om Mexico City File)
including cover sheet. dup icate of FOIA No. 7-2]

DIR-74830, 11 October 1963 [FOIA No. 7-2]

MEXI-6453, 8 October 1963 (from Mexico City File)
[duplicate of FOIA No. 5-1A]

MEXI-6453 (IN 36017),°9 October 1963 [FOIA No. 5-1A]

Transcript of telephone call on 27 September 1963,
Soviet Embassy Chancery (15-61-55).

Informal Memorandum dated 10 February 1977; Subject:
Background on Mexican Station Support Assets
(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies).

EPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET REPRODUCTION
_ PROGIBITED

50. Lt neu a a lum dated 2 May 1977; Subject Review
y Station Fi, tes at the Warrenton Record

enter.

aa
PROWIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PRORISITED

eg

EPRODUCTION
PROGBIMED SECRET


13-00000

R

SU"JECT: elay in sending the first cable about
OSWALD

1. Much has been written about the delay (by the Mexico
Station) ins ending the first cable requesting traces on the
name Lee OSWALD. It was discussed in Dave Phillips book as a
case of laziness on the part of the Soviet case officer (which
in wy view was unjust and unnecessary and indicates that Dave
didn't know what he was’ talking about).

2. Normally, the Spanish transcript for the 1 October
convers ation would have been picked up on the morning-0f.he
2nd of October. ‘he Russian language portion would-have.gone
to the Russ ian/English transcriber on the 3rd of<October. ‘the
trans lation would have been returned the follawing day (4th)
at which time, the Soviet case officer woyhd have~a ked for
the photographic coverage. That coverage ’eould not have been
in the station before the 7th since the fijm was still in the
camera on the 3rd of October and i NS Se up probably on
the 4th, processed and passed ‘ation on the next work
day vhich would have been M

3. Later the film was Qbwken out of the camera every day
but at that time, the filmstayed in the camera until a full
rotl was completed which might take three or four days.

4. A name trace could have been requested on the bas is
of the name alone but that wasn't the wy Win Scott ran that
Station. He wanted the photographic coverage tied in with the
telephone coverage ..s ometimesthere_was..a U.S. automobile
license number. It was also part of the "numbers game" of
justifying a project ly the number of dis patches, cables or
Teports produced.

GeO0154

:
, PROWMBITED



13-00000

2 May 1977

SUBJECT: Review of Mexico City Station Files
at the Warrenton Recerd's Center

1. On 2 May 1977 Chris Hopkins and Annic
visited the Warrenton Record's Center to
City files in search of additional pho!
“unidentified man". We were unabl
photographs. It appears that egiiie ographs may have *
been destroyed in a purge of Station files and
that the folders for Sexneped material were re-used to

more recent p
for retention. Follo
and pertinent notatio

Te re-use of the old folders:

Job_#70-236 Box 1 of 3

EILYRIC Photos LICALLA Negatives

1 February '- 1 March 1968 In white letter-sized
Tied in re- colder, envelopes - five

LILYRIC 1 Aug. 1966 to 31 Aug 66) packages C-1873 - 2031

1 March - 1 ‘il 1968
jack folder - re-used LILYRIC
folder 1 Sept 66 - 31 Oct 66

Front folder re-used LILYRIC
folder 2 Dec 63 - 28 Feb 64

1 il - 2 1968

sr re-used LILYRIC ath
folder 2 Mar 64 thru 29 May 64 go0b1s2

Front folder re-used LILYRIC
folder 1 Nov thru 15 Dec 66

EK 4H 056 Continued
Copy 20 F7 _ SECRET SECRET

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED



13-00000

R

&

3 May - 3 June 1968
Back Flap re-used LILYRIC folder

ac]
16 Dec 1966 thru Jan 1967

Front flap re-used LILYRIC folder
18 Nov 1964 thru 26 Feb 1965

3 June - 1 July 1968
—_— j

back flap one side re-used
Czech photos July 64 § Aug 64

back flap-other side re-used
LIMITED 11 May 66 thru 31 July 66

1 July 68 - 31 July 1968 SS
re-used LT “8 ia

2p
7 May 64 - 27 July 64 “
Front flap re-us der
16 May 61 - 16

File # S0-

Job_#70-236 Box 2 of 3

LILYRIC Photos
Back flap 3 Apr 67 - 2 May 67
filed in re-used fo.
16 May 61 - 18 July 61
File # 50-6-74/S

Front flap re-used LILYRIC April 67

Back flap 2 May 67 —1 June 67
re-used LI der Dec - Jan 67

Front flap clean

StGHET

EPRODUCTION
PROAIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

6000153

Continued


13-00000

om

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

1-June_- 3 July 1967
Clean folder

ap re-used LILYRIC folder
July - Aug 64
Front flap clean
1 67 - 4 Sept 67 ge
ean folder we
4 Sept - 2 October 1967 aon’
tem elder NS r gy

2 Oct - 31
[ean iT

1 Nov - 22 Dec 67
‘ap re-used LILYRIC folder
12 Apr 66 ~ 18 May 66

flap re-used incoming cable
Errono folder 1-31 Jan 65 .

9 Bae 31_Jan_ 68
‘ap re-used LILYRIC folder
1 Saly thru 31 July 1966

Back flap -.clean

Job #70-236 Box 3-0f 3 6000154
LICALLA Photos
2 Jon = 27 Feb 1967
ap re CALLA folder
$ Nov 62°- 31 Jan 63
” SECRET Continued 3

EPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Dec 66 - 15 Feb 67

1-Mar - 28 April 1967

‘ap re-used LI folder
1 Feb - 29 June 63

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
20 Feb - 31 May 1967

( poe St = 30 ne Sac folder oo

23 July 6: 63 (Y-1257) to
30 Nov 63 (Y-1308)

Front flap re-used _ LI
1 Sept thru 30 Nov

3 July - 30 967
‘ap re- folder

19 Sept 63 (C-1351) to

30 Nov 63 (C-1414)

Front flap LICALLA re-used folder
1 June thru 30 June 1967

1 Sept - 27 Oct 1967
Baek Flap clean

: Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Aug - ‘31 Aug 1967

6 Nov - 29 Dec 1967 '
‘ap clean

front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 July - 31 July 1967

a
3 Jan - 28 Feb 1968 6000155
Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 July thru 31 August 1966

Back flap Czech photos re-used folder
Sept. - Nov 64

» SECRET Continued 4

} REPRODUCTION
PROWIBTTED


13-00000

R

«& is. &

1 March thru 29 April 1968
it flap re-us ()
28 Nov 61 to 10 Feb 62

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Apr to 1 July 1966

2 thru_19 June 1968
Sone pin recused LILY mas C folder (¥-907 to ¥-969)

12 Sept "ea ~ 23 Mar 1962

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder
1 Jan thru 31 Mar 1966

Bb: ——
1

it ed
23 Nov to a

Job_#72-626/36
File ¥ 50-8-21
Box #5

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITE

Contained nothing prior to 1967. Looking for 1963.

Job_#70-209
res 1§2 at Has)
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #4
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #5
_ Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #6
Nothing pertinent to our search.
Box #7
Nothing pertinent to our search.
Box #8
Nothing P*tinent. to our search

SECRET

EPRODUCTION
PROGISITED

C200156


13-00000

EPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

EZ)

« a

Box #9
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #10
Nothing pertinent to our * Search.

Box #11
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #12
Nothing pertinent to our search.

Job_#73-506,

_ _ ao ge

- “zg mile h

Dec »

Dispatch HMMT 11,368, dated 17 March 1972. Photos were filed in
re-used subject and "" folders (equivalent t of subject 201 folders),

indicating contents of “original” subject and "P" files were
destroyed.

Ref (to previous shipment ) HMMA 40,562, 21 May 71.
Coou157
 SEGHET

- REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
. _ PRO BITED

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1953)

1. Unilateral Coverage: .
From the time the Mexico Station was opened in April 1947 until

the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station in 1955, the Station had

developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in
Nexico City. This umbrella type project tars of multiline
oy lance team and a |

es i

mail intercept operation.
4 Telephone taps (| git by an employee of the Jocal
telephone company wi ss by a Station case officer. The number :
of lines tapped eo only by the availability of a listening post :

nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

phone taps, three photographic sites, a q

: Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-
- American recruited agents. :
Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case. officer
‘assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These
operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and.a pedestrian en-
trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest ‘corner of the
c—
0000158

£2, IMPDET
CL BY 004645

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED



13-00000

—

REPRODUCT
PROWIBITED

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned
street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental
basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-

tion received word that the photograph of the “unidentified man" was

being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-
“graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building
on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but ye middle of

s the block south. It had a planted view of aN Bate of the Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photogra aX
row of four houses on the mango ie Soviet Embassy compound.

This site overlooked thé jeden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

jas located in one of a

purpose of this oper was to get good identification photographs of
Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-
cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother
and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the
LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de-
veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was
originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due. to the resig-
nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by.a recruited agent. ~

0000159

~ REPRODUCTION -
PROHIOTTED


13-00000

R

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.
These two officers organized a surVeillance team of six recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever. someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of
the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for
identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a unilateral m sept operation,

Re

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American SX . A recruited

Mexican agent, who had a soto tictal ae

from a subagent employed by the. aaa system.

2. Liaison Covera: NY
Liaison cone unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction

tained selected letters

of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaison, was a hip-
pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This-Ministry
was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

so RLETEL, and corrupt. A-Station

foreigners. Their agents were
officer trained a number of them in name tracing and travel control. In
1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

0000160,

EPRODUCTION
PROGIBIMED

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED



13-00000

: REPRODUCTION
. PROHIBITED

LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines
connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican
Army officers. In 1961, because of mismanagement by the Mexican prin-
cipals, the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A Hl
Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening i
post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:
In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the . |

Joint tap operation) asked the American officer at a ERY listening
post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cul Satellite Em-

disconnected al] of the unilateral

e
bassies in anticipation of possible “ar i Station imnediately

taps on these Embassies so

that they would not be disc;
taps. The Mexicans aC ‘ter connected five Cuban lines, five
Soviet lines, three Czeth lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav

line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of

the Mexicans hooked up their

conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

a
4 6200161

SEGRET/SCUSTE

- REPRODUCTION eS
PROMISITED



13-00000

. REPRODUCTION
_ ~PROMIBITED

iy a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location
for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-
tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations
usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-
self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the
Station started screening all photographs. However, here a: there
was a backlog because the photographs were picked we ae a week
but those picked up were usually for dates a fey it re since the
technician who was processing the Film, oe ~~ tre time basis.
Further, photographs were not madi Pines a complete roll of

‘ film was used. Later ee ty the operator cleared the camera

at the end of each day re! ss of amount of unused film remaining.
The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with
foreign license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents

+ were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-
ficulties.

Oswald came to the attention of the listening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet line. It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

000
Good. 0000162

REPRODUCTION 7
PROSIBITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
po PROMIBITED

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.
There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the

photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in

either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only
these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

~ 0000163

meee ee
PRORIBTTED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
GER ED
(SECRET. » -

10 Feb 77
Source: fiotes nade by A. Goodpesture
for John Leader, IG Staff

Suoject: Background on lfexico Station Support Assets
(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Enbassies)

1. Unilateral coverage. From the tine the Mexico Station was opened in
April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until arrival of Win Scott as COS in 1958, Charles
Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to SaasaaaaeR
exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)
consisted of milti line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance
team and a mail intercept operation.

a. Fhone taps were placed by an omiloyee of the telephone company

Pena el we Fueled,
who was handled by David WILSTED (pseudo). The number of lines
tapped vas linked by availability of a Ustening eet nearby

(since the taps were not made in the saben Gileh on a oend English/
sy

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, SY eandcPivers. Generally

these agents (most; Mexican American) were related
PE

(which ay td*that tine felt was good security in that
if they S:8€ea about’ shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Anderson with the help
of Harry Mahoney (retired, living in Chicago) end TOY TSD
people checking the best type of camera, film, and concealment
devices. These had sub-cripts ee LIFEAT (LIMITED, LILYRIC,
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site bang opposite across
the street from the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy which had
both a vehicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

rthiest corner of their compound and LIMITED vas diagonally

across a double pesrerted| street on the fame nd 25; 1
(See REQ Dane ey {Sener H
: Jd

weaves

am ae *

C.


13-00000

PROMBITED

that block. LIMITED ws

ted strictly on an

mente] basis in the esrly stages. I
one storey
this property (a/Sranish Colonial stone house) through LIMOUSIIE (check to

che lexi Station boxgkt

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart. This base vas closed when

the Station got word thet the photo of "uniden man" was being released to the
public by the Warren Commission. The photo operators were moved to another apt
nearby. The property was sold (under an operational agreement. with LIMOUSDE
for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to be built
on this site). LILYRIC was planned es an alternate photo base to LIMITED,

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the sane side of the street

as LIMITED but in the middle of the block South, It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Embassy. The agents in LIMITED and LILYRIC (both

Mexican families) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LILYRIG was a rented apartment. LICALLA, the third ph atte, was located

vat

in one of a row of four houses on the South, site aft the. Soviet Enbassy compound

which the Mexico Stetion purcha: ed a “ghow +t. oss (check date), also using

LIMOUSINE as the parchage Bales >

site overlooked the back garden of

a
the Soviet Enbassy con; . The purpose of this operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet zersonnel
unidentified in Mexico Station records), The three photo sites vere handled by
Ramon Alvarez (iexican citizen of U.S. nother who taught elerentery level at
the Anerican School). Ramon collected the film epkkeuteaebeecmtim from LIMITED
and LILYRIC three tines a week.’ His sister's husband, Carlos (‘lexican doctor)
developed and printed the film into 8x10 contact print strips. The master plan
was for LICALLA film to ve processed ,: “fasiae ee from 1957 to 1959 (Harper
Holt, - resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed film began
to accumilate, the inside CO (ahoney) decane disgusted and took the filn out
for Rarion's brother-in-law to process (probatly early 1959). ‘Thus Raxon became
the handler for all three photo tases. A sensitive staff D monitoring operation
SEbRET
“0000165

REPRODUCTION
PROWISITED

o at thet time were largely

“REPRODUCTION



13-00000

R

vas

Lm

PROMIBITED

eran
_3 ° ..8&bre),

run out of another ohe of these houses (crypt for the four houses was

ST,1, etc), This was hardled by Glen VIDDEY (outside TSD officer} and

Mahoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This opsration was also separate

from LICALLA, The two houses in between were rented to unsuscecting tenants.

¢. iiobile surveillance wes developed by Anderson and later placed
tinder Mahoney and Joseph Sancho, This teen consisted of e helt
dozen or so agents who used three to four late model cars end a
panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo covera’e).
The plan was to activate this group by radio (from LIMI7M 3ASE)
wren someone of interest left the/Eabassy gate and stay with then
until they made their meetings. These azents knew about the LEUTED
BASE befause they had LIMITED photos for identification purposes.
This worked fairly well until about the middle of 1958, (check date)
when one of the surveillance agents got too cloda & his target and
was arrested by the Mexican transit pol and. feted over to the

Oa)
Marioan Searet, Servioa. ees ‘ine ‘the Station could arrange through

a cleared attore out (Judd Austin of the Goodrich,

‘
Little and Riqué = the agent: had identified Sancho (who vas

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside——
phone number of Mahoney (who wes subsequently replaced by Louis
Puckett). As a result of this flap, the LIFSAT project was broken

up into several others. The agents were not changed. but were given.
new crypts. Tistencota ard Peggy Waggard replaced Andersén in handling
the unilateral phone taps.. Puckett replaced Mahoney and handled the
surveillance team (LIEITRAF) and the photo bases through Remon,

a. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) nail
intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, The agent. (Mexicen) hed

a semi official status end arranged to obtain selected letters from

TRECRET ~ 0000166"

EPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

“REPRODUCTION

1S

a


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
— PROMIBITED

,
H4-|

vostel system (I think at the airpcrt}. His case officers

vere Ister/Puckett, Revert F ‘sldnann, end Alen White.

2, Liaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by the nature

of the

in services at thet time. The Mexican DFS (Direction of Federal
Security) with which ve dealt vas s hip pocket croup rua out of the Ministry
Of Gov:rnnent. This ilinistry spent a major part of its tire on control of

foreigners and political investigations. Their agents vere vicious, venal,

corrupt extortionists. Robert Helberg established contact with one of them ae
Levine De Leon (later LIFIRE group) in about 1950 or 51. He gave them some
training (a group of about five surveillance types) in travel control working

the airport as well as file searches of names from DFS Eqtrs where the files

vere poorly organized and often inaccurate, How and thenp however, sone useful

infornation was developed but it could not be, cofitiaea upon. Melberg was

replaced by Phil Roettinger. (rest geal penaced ! in Mexico), Mahoney, Thomes
‘ Bae Ee Mba Eine)

During 1958, AMicove met socially some of the chronies of the

Hazlitt, and Rovert Feldmasitil

Mexican President elect, Adolfo Lopex Mateos. During this period, the J.S.

Anbassador Robert C, Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F, Dulles).
was energetic in organizing groups to "fight cormunism". One of these seeds : |
grew into a proposal Miguel Aleman (jr. son of former Mexi President), acting

for Lorez “ateos, made to Win Scott for a joint telephone tap operation. This y

project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a’ shakedown,

The Mexican in control. (LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, end greedy, His

son (LIENVOY-2) was a masterpiece of deceit and corruption, LIEIEGANT also
manipulated cortrol over the principal agent of LIBIGHT mail intercept. The
first case officer was-Alfonso Spera inside with Turner Smith (retired) outside
and John (ISD treining officer for surveillence and head of the listening

post where thirty telechone lines would connect as well as a transcription roon

0000167

REPRODUCTION

ROWEMTED | c


13-( 00000

“REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITE

_< SECRET.

j Uo-dean arny officers.) Initielly the stction tried to n.et every

staffed
demand made by the Mexicans. Both Smith end John hed language difficulties and

personal problems associated with being outside the stetion so thet the Mexicans

were virtuelly uncontrollavle, spendi ¢ money es they pleased, squirrelling away

equipnent at enoruous costs, and neglecting their pert of the bargain in the
production of transcripts or placing teps which we wanted. Szera wes replaced
by Jack Brady who found himself in the same pincer movement of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Bredy hed turned down by the son, LIETYOY-2.

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little to show for it,

the project was revarped. Smith and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who vas put inside the listening post to maintain
Brady was reassigned to other duties rending a.trensfer.
the equipnent./ Scott took over the project as case offices ‘naeting with LIBLEGA!T.
als Ve

‘Sor foutine supervision

He designated Ann Goodpasture to meet dailing witir

of the listening post, picking up trenscpfitts.and tepes. Goodpasture hed no
dealings with the Mexicans excey

all decisions were made offen “This was about-late 1961.

3. My menory is a little vague about tke origins of the Cuban Babessy but I
think the staff first developed froma pro-Castro group celebrating on ‘ew
Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a sakeshift arrangerent of volunteers
through most of 1960 and 61 with Tom Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on
their activities end recruitirg agents right and left exong Cuban netionals in
Mexico City.

4. Personnel assignments. . Of interest to us now is who was in Mexico during
the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the
Warren Commission, To detersine who vas there and'what they were doing I
kave groped persons tozether chronologically with areas of their assignnent
covering from 1950. to 1969 so that Bacthen names pop up, one cen tell what

ud poe
Period they Were in Mexico’ and their assignments,at the tine.

. SEGRE 0000468 -

REPRODUCTION =
~ PROMIBITED |



10

SOVIET TARGET
6/57 ~ 10/59 Louise Lyon (mtusd) 6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheiné (ps)
9/59- 8/65 Herbert Manel] Chief—- (retired 2)
9/59 - 8/65 Barbara Manell — Outside CO

5/64 - 7/66 William Bright

aes - ae Cynthia Hausmann
5 =

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TPANSCRIBERS

e
6/

} R

8/56-6/69 COS Winston M. Scott (deceased)

peos 7/56 ~ 7/58 iguez (retired)
10/58 ~ 12/62 (retired)
6/63 ~ 9/65 “xr (retired) —

10/65 - 1969 Stanley Watson (retired in Mexico)

COVERT ACTION . | a
Prior to 1954 Howard Hunt (retired)

12/54 - 7/53 Willierd Hill (resigned) {

12/56 - 9/61 Stannard Short (retired) :

: Chief

9/6. - 3/64 David Phillips C/(retired) —
8/62 - 9/64 Asst ~

2/6, - 6/65 Janes Flannery 0/(retired) —
9/64, - 11/66 Harold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967 -Stenlev Watson C/ (retired)
66 - 68
68 - 7. Joseph SmithC(retired in Mexico)

CUBA OPERATIOUS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Chief
2/60 - 4/62 Jack Stewart. (retired Coota R:
4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief —

9/63 - 7/65 Ray Swider — ng
19/6 5 5/85 Lorna Kackay (rete
8/6 - 6/65 David Philli

9/65 ~ 10/68 Joseph Pice:

10/65 ~ 12/67 Peggy Maggar

‘67 Alice Pittinger

56 - 8/58 Morris Gordon (resigned)
‘58 - 6/63 George ifisko —
63-70 . Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) ~

(sez,

0000169 i

EPRODUCTION
PROWSRTED



13-00000

Te

SUPPORT ASSETS
Unilateral phono teps

1949 - 1961 Cherles Anderson III Chief 49-71 7 Outside CO
2/55 ~ 4/60 Pegey Maggord Asst David YILSTED (ps)
4/56 - 1/62 Frenk Estancona Chiof retired in Mexico: "
2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan — :

: 9/62, - 12/67 Hickael Farmer

Unilateral photo Cubans

6/59 - 4/64 Robert Zambernardi (resigned Mi
7/59 - 6/62 Richard Srathar TSD (retired)

Unilateral photo Soviets

3/54 - 4/59 Harry T. Mahoney . 56 - 68 outa

(retired Chicako)
5/57 - 8/64 A. Goodpasture (alternate CO —
and internal routing)
6/58 - 6/63 Louis D. Puckett (retired)
6/63 of 6% ThoRas Keenan = eben} Hy cal

°

65 - 66 William Bright a ng
Fs oe
Liaison phone taps

1959 - 1969 Winston Scott (deceased)

1959 - 1960 A2fonso Spera (retired)

1959 - 1960 Turner Smith (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960 John" (Training rept resigned)

1960- 1961. John Brady (retired)

1962 - 1968 A. Gcodpasture —

1961 - 1971 Chsrles Flick (outside TSD Staff Agent - retired)—

Lyaison - surveillance

Prior 1954 Robert Melberg (retired)

3/54 - 4/59 Harry Mehoney (retired)
‘59-1961 Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldmann

TSD Outside unit

4/58 -.12/63 Glen Widden’ (retired) —
0/59.-4/64 Jzseph i. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed dst

' REPRODUCTION
PROAIBITED

“REPRODUCTION

PRORIBITED

A Agent
“avigned in Mexico)

0000170

14


—

R

, “REPRODUCTION

About nid 1962 (check date) LIFHVOY outside Mexi rept asked
for the telephone nunvers of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Embassies.

With this forewarning, LIFEAT (unilateral coverage) wes disconnected. However,

as I recall, the cans connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, and 1 Yugoslav line, The basehouse listening post had a live

noaitor who mede short summaries of interesting conversations for a éaily
resume which was received each day around 8 a.n. (passed by Flick to Goodrasture
to get to Scott before 9 a.m.) Later (when the reel was completely recorded)
full transcripts were typed and passed to the stetion in the same way, hovever,
there was usually a time lag of a day or co, Those transcripts which nad
Russien or another lenguage besides Ssanish or English went out of the listening

post the day after the transcript (of other conversstions otf tha reel )vas
x

typed. These reels vere taken to another locatjpmil

and typed. In the case of the Russian spabtytsSnss
aah?

about a eek behind the dete ambi sisverdation because of the volune of

_-Russian conversations ‘embers of the Soviet Eubassy. During this

period (fall of 1963).the reels were probably being brought into the station
and carried to Boris by one of the people from the Soviet Section or they may
have been carried to him by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave
it to Herbert Manell to take to Boris. Herbert Manell and his wife Berbera
hesdled ell of the processi-g of Soviet transcripts. Hy job involved screening
the photographs as soon as we lesrned that the man calling hinself Oswald was
probably an.Anerican, However, here again'there was a backlag because the
photos were picked up three tines a week but the ones picxed up were usually
for dates a few days prePiously because the doctor processed the film on a
night time basis. Photographs were made usually until one roll vas used but

later we got it changed to one day coverage on each roll — in other words the

ba
operetors, Cleared the camera each day whether there was anynZiimxnxga a full

roll of film ezposed.. Instructions were to cover office hours, photograph each

EPRODUCTION es
PROWBRTED

PRORIGITED



13-00000

" REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITE

‘SECRET

new Soviet and fanily, all foreigners e eign Licence plates. Human
error did occur but generally the sgents were conscientious. The Cuban

enbessy coverege had more sophisticated eauipsent (a pulse caera) tut it

frequently developed nechanical difficulties. Bob Zetbarnerdi end Spathar

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna ‘eckay screened
the film inside the station.

: I am certain thet the Oswald call came to our attention from the
Soviet line. It was picked uz snd taken to Boris for a translation because
the caller was trying to speak Russian, Any delay was caused by waiting to
compare the photographs with the typed transcript. There were no copies of

transcripts ever made in languages other than Spenish or Epglish because Win

ah reened the

Scott could read only thoce tvo languages end he,

A:
ee ee

5 Ver
. es 3

eo

a 0000172
_SCORET, i

REPRODUCTION =
PROHIBITED !


13-00000

REPROOWET Ny
Pear

wee SEtney

, ; . aa J
P2Oteme


G TUESDAY 1th OCTOBER 196:
Coverqge: 900 to 1900

3 Log Film 144 Weather 1/100
20 Eaxp Camera Setting 3,5-2.5!

1 1251 2URM platican con KAZ en el jardin

- gee ennnnnn enn
stestekeotshectatenteieasolateateateeslatentetanasatenclseesneteabntstentadeatetebeceantec,
WEDNESDAY 2 OCTOBER 1963 Coverage: 900 to 19CO .

avon eh ene

23 (2139 ANOV— out UMW a Norte por Tacubaya-Despide DEN~en Chev 375

Ce ee)

- 8 1150 UMM ‘out a Norte por Tacubaya en Ford37 verde(entr61141) 71033 DF

none enone
1216 UMM

so Um

12053 LEON | “in” 2URM de Oriente por Chicontepec de Falcon 372

Hoe ene

Peat nen noe

Chev(sali61218) 52137 DF
Mamet 64

or Tacubaya

wz Fewer ene rene

134 nn Ane

veneer eae 5

14 1243 VAZQUEZ out a Norte-por Tacubaya

Bere Hn

nen nee ne

16 1259 TIPO out a Norte por Tacubeye te Chev (entré 1218) D 167

THURSDAY 3 October 1963

Doverage: 900. to 1900

171200 UMW in de Norte por Tacubaya

18 1204 UMW out a Norte por Tacubaya en Taxi 8882 DF

ee ee ee ed eneee
* 20 1213 UMM in de Sur por Tacubaya

21 1222 UMM out a Sur por Tacubaya

TEKH OSE

PROGMIBITED

SECRET



13-00000

R

REPRODUC
£ €.
“ pRB
5
27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Chancery 15-61-55

Item 295, page 3

At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet Embassy Chancery
to the Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia DURAN. He asks

DURAN if the american has been there.

DURAN: Yes, he is still here.

SOVIET: According to the letters that he showed them from the (Soviet)
Consulate in Washington, he wants to go to the USSR to stay
a long time with his wife who is Russian, but also the
answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.
That accordingly these transactions take 4 or 5 months but
without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request
and even then, they could not issue the visa hexe (in Nexico
City) without’ asking Washington. Yet accordingly this man
(the American), “; showed him a letter inwhich*he~(the
American) is a member of an organization infavor of Cuba
and said that the Cubans could not ivethinr the visa without

the Russian visa and now the ee Maocsn's know what to do
with him, because he has rr sre answer from
Washington. a

DURAN: ith them also, beg roblem with him (the Anerican)

thinking of sing his visa, because he knew it was
going to take w long time waiting for the Russian visa in
Cuba, and then go on to the USSR.

SOVIET: ..that the thing is that if his (the American) wife were

~" now in Washington (and) going to receive the visa right now

or the permission from the USSR to retum to her country, (if)
she is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having
this visa, she can commmicate to whatever place, this
permission, for example, here or in any other place (he) can
receive it, but right now they do not have them.

DURAN: ..certainly and neither can (the Cubans) give him a letter
because they do not know if the visa will be approved.

SOVIET: They can only give the visa according to instructions.

DURAN: Then that is what she will put on his application.

SOVIET:, Neither can I give him any letter of recommendation because
I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

DURAN: It was no bother, thank you very much.

oe eons SECRET

Copy 2oF 7 : SECRET

that he doesn WSartyone in Cuba and in that case it
is very rise ve baryon a visa, because he was

EPRODUCTION
PROGISITED

ON


13-00000

ee REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet Embassy
Consulate at 1037 hours and asks for the Consul. He is told that
the Consul is not there. The unidentified man asked what is needed
to get visas to go to Odessa. He is told to call back at 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

At 1235 hours 4 man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) from inside the
Soviet Embassy Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial
America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the
telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN ROMAN.
ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Enbassy and they need to
Imow what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa, that the
Soviets will also need copies of the passenger manifest...

27 September 1963, Sovict Embassy Consulate 15-60-55

(One concludes that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN are shipping+representatives
for the boat "KALONIA", and needed routine visa information.’ First

a call was made to the first listing for the Soy#et. Embassy in the
Mexican telephone directory (which turned out=t9 be~ the Military Attache).
They got the phone number for the Consulate aid-the address. After
making a call to the Consulate and that it would not be open
until 1130 hours, ALATRISTE went. t@théiaddress to get the needed
information.)

+ Hten 395, pages 7 and 8 ee

Just after 1600 hours, ‘the Soviet Consulate received a call from the
Cuban Consulate (Sylvia DURAN) who said she had there a U.S. citizen
who had requested a transit visa to Cuba because he is going to the
USSR. DURAN wants to know with whom he spoke at the Soviet Embassy
because she sent him over to them telling him that if the Soviets
approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything
more, advising the (Department of) Immigration in Cuba.’ She wants
to know with whom he spoke because he says that he doesn't know
either with what person and who told him that certainly there would
be no problem.’ The Soviet asks DURAN to wait a minute. After a
short wait DURAN explains the same thing to another Soviet.. This
Soviet tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her name and
someone will return the call. DURAN gives her name and telephone
number 11-28-47 then says as a personal thing, she has moved and
has not advised them of a change of address so will not receive their
. Bulletin and can give it to them now. The Soviet asks her to call
KOUKHARENKO in order to change that address and asks for the name
of the (Cuban) Cultural Attache. DURAN says it is Teresa PROENZA
whose number is 14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her.

06176

jo

REPRODUCTION
PROMBIMED


13-00000

FNAME fi
INUIT ANOTHER

Os DIRECTOR a pan

: fa COPY

ROM 1 MEXICO CITY fi

sctiom: WH & {|

vifo 1 Cl, C1/oPS, CI/IC 2, Fl, SR 7, RF, VR *
t

Xx =

SF GR ET annnasz |

NIQ CITE|MEXI 6453 )
LOTMPROVE, :

1, AGC LIENVOY | OCT 63, AMERICAN “ALE WHO SPOKE R9KEN RUSSION

aro YES Na’

OSwaLD (PHONETIC), STATED HE AT, SOVEMR ON o8
CEPT WHEN SPOKE WITH CONSUL WHOM HE RELIEVED 9} ILERTY “LAD IMIPOVICH

vesr “ov, SU°J ASKED SQV GUARD IVAN ORYEDKOV WHO ANSVERED , IF THERE
ANYTHING NEM RE TELEGRAM TO “ASHINGTON. OSYEDXOV UPON CHECKING saID

NOTHING RECEIVED YET, RUT REQUEST HAD PEN SENT.

veg 1916

2. HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS RE AMERICAN ENTERING
By ‘gT HELTIC BUILD,

“OURS, LEAYINS 1999 ON I ocr. APPARENT ag:
aa

SIPC4 & FEET, REAEDING HAIRLINE, NE. TOP, "ORE KHAKIS.

18D.SO°RT SHIRT. SOURCE LER :

3. NO LOCAL DISSE™,

SECRET

Di 200-5-Y-}

y ot 63

Dogue norte LA

ae
1arEQIA Roview on APR 1975
REPRODUCTION By OTHER

oo Seo

pepe : |
on PROBED oeaaae



—
. :
— REPRODUCTION
ORIG: LADILLINGER
ext: CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pares PROMBITED
» DISTR Commo: Chronos SECRET FILE:
[ Ric ueinciion H

TIFIACS

NoMaRe

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

IWITIALa

“TO pm INFO.

WALD (PHONEDIC), STATED HE AT SOVEMB ON 28 SEPT WHEN SPOKE WITH
WHOM HE BELIEVED EE VALERIY VLADIMIROVICH KOSTIKOV. SUBJ ASKED SOV"

GUARD IVAN OBYEDKOV WHO ANSWERED, IF THERE ANYTHING NEW RE TELEGRAM TO
WASHINGION.. CBYEDKOV UPON CHECKING SAID NOTHING RECEIVED YET, BUT REQUEST

HAD BEEN SHRP. FON
. 2. rave mows wor semome we nexacan neesfee mam 1216 HOURS,

F raed
LEAVING le22 ON I OCT. APPARENT AGE 35, ATHDEP! ‘BUILD, CIRCA 6 FEST, RECEDING

bikinis,

peat Erareniaeariee |

¥ DIP OF

; 5-l 4
iH

Eo oaw

a “Enalen- by.

LADiren eer @) 5 ee hee
£ uxt SOORDINATING OFFICERS :
t fe ok Aer WAWgLE SECRET WCCURTIS

‘CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

SS Cure

0000178

SEPRODUCTION a
PROKIBTTED



13-00000

UF rf CLASSIFIED MlSSA\
Ge he, bustos: Jrm — an
UIT: . WH/3/Mexico 0 INDix do SECRET
ery 5940 NO INDEX
DATE: 10 Oct 1963 FILE IN CS FILE KO.
“to 1 MBXICO CITY : oe WR QDcr 63° 22 7g
6S copy... Bae tB82

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI 8

s+ [7 ToereiSt6:CER
ro taDDP, Cl, Ci/oPs, Cy/:

ae ROUTINE |

2 Fly SRT, RF, VR a . t

xx * : i

To MERI... 5 INFO. . : CITE pir _ |
v4 630-0
REY:  MEXI 6453 an 3 sere, tc "
Bebe igre :
oo 1, "LEE OSWALD WHO'CALLED SOVEMB 1 OCT PRORAELY IDENTICAL
KE. HEVRY OSWALD, (202289248) BORN 16 OCT 1999, NEW ORLEANS,

"mo aPEET= 70, 7Ss2 Toc 1050, OSWALD 18 F

‘ATES EMB IN MOSCOW,
“aorear ‘ING HE HAD. g SOVIET. seriall on 13, _¥FEB
THE US EXB MOSCOW AN. WHDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD.

y
POSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN. “WHICH SUBJ INDICATED .
D TO RETURN TO USA

a

rsnsilyiemnsodl

HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US.PPT AS. W:
XF "WE COULD COME TO SOME AGRERMENT..CONCERNING THE DROPPING
‘OF ANY LEGAL PROCESDINGS’ AGAINST ues" ox 8 JULY ON BIS OWN

916 Yay UO BEOY VIO 19
F

DS rrr HE APPEARED AT THE EMB. WITH-QIS “WIRE 1 TO SRE ABOUT
* - A 9208
HIS RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT. HE ACTUALLY HAD NEVER
APPLIED FOR SOVIST CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATION AT (0 ates
COORDINATING OFFICERS cours. |CCONTINUED) *__
RELEASING oFrices -[iateenegeat’| -° AUTHEMTLeATING ”
a SECRET ‘rcarurcation |
REPRODUCTION 8 BY. OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE IS oee . Copy mt .

= 6S COPY,

REPRODUCTION . 2 |
>PROMIBITED -— 2 |



13-00000

ORIG:
UNIT’:

DATE +

~ REPRODUCTIOL
PROMIBITED.

CORSiFieo MESSAGE

INDEX { “SECRET
“. NO INDEX
“ADVFILE IN CS FILE NO.-71

FROM:

CONF: |

INFO:

18

RELEASING “OFFIGERY?

_REPRODUSTHON OTHER ae = ae OFFICE __

+ See Seniticed inet ——:
» Nusber a
meee “For. ee oby of this documents

sel.

spatttece):

APPLICATION, ACCORDING. 70. o

CITIZENSHIP. OSWALD ST; ‘HAD BEEN. EMPLOYED siseE >

13 JAN 1960: IN RADIO AND TV FACTORY.IN MINSE
“WHERE WORKED AS METAS WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP.’ OSWALD WAS
MAERIED ON 36 APRIL 1962 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA ‘A’
DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17, JULY,1941 USSR... Wo EDqS. TRACES. i
HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGS FOR WIFE'TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO’SHR ~ :
COULD APPEAR AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW, HIS AMERICAN PPT
WAS RETURNED TO HIM, US EMB-MOSCOW STATED TWENTY UONTHS
OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING
EFFECT ON OSWALD. : -

3. LATEST HDQS INFO WAS ‘opaczD REPORT DATED' MAY 1962 ”
SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITSZEN AND :
BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND. DEPT. STATE
HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD
TO USA. 12 “9300180

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING
OFFicen

Copy tho.

PROAIBITED

1



REPRODUCTION

H é CLASSIMED bSsAGE  €
1 Morx SECRET | ber ae
No INvex + 15
Ey Ate IW C3 FLE NO. 4 f
Bi 6 po oo 3 Pg.
FROM: DIRECTOR . ay . ‘
cone : . |_forrerreo oe
. ROUTINE
“INFO + . - =
. : PAGE THRES . !
1 ; ANF cneor 7TUGSQ. |
. 4... STATION SHOULD PASS INFO REF AND PARA ONE TO

© 'TPELIDE, ODENVY, ODOATH, AND ODURGE LOCALLY. INFO PARAS,
TWO AND THREE ORIGINATES WITH opacrD.

Post an American male who
d his name Lee Oswald -
at Sov Emb on 28 Sept when

He discussed sending a telegran

0. local Dissemination had been made.

ear) an

SR/CI/A/Roll (in draft)
aison/oman ° (in draft) dr 2e nay

SSINES
B wa/cors__/

COORDINATING OFFICERS <1

-ADDP
fe. RELEASING OFRICER \oengrding and
‘ectrefcaten

SECRET

REPRODUCTION an

iva

PROGIBIMED



13-00000

(O UNCLASS!FLED

of}

ul

conn a
i

eDOQOUET

: oid AND RECORD SHEET

* FSUBIECT: (Oprionaty|

SECRET

PROTIBIT ED

FROM:

EXTENSION

nO.

[274230 = eye”

Dare

OCT LE 1963

TON (Em designation. rooke Amber Nand

building)

COMMENTS, (umber ach com

ymant to. show from whom
‘arront calvin after wach comment}

ee a

= WHEE

Paul W,

- YF 3.
_See'rg ISL 4 , |
OH are WoMie >
15. wae
s

Bere

610 “setmece* (] “SECRET

(1. CONFIDENTIAL -

ECRE
iN

oO

forrl OLG ”
a re Le
bbe

INTERNAL,

Use omy — -C_] UNCLASSIFIED --

0000182

{

|

—

5

4



13-00000

; 4
osm REPRODUCTION

action: Dare: = PRORIBIT BiTeL
into: SECRET
, CLASSIFICATION ~ c i

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

EE OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVEMB 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL 2 ed
Lee KE RY OSWALD (201-289248) BORN -AS_OCT 1939, NEW ORLEANS, as

H pecenned cmon PRR Tare TREBRTNS WONSER
He f OPERATIONAL | WiFiAtS
BPO TOUTE IMMEDIATE, Pwo | 1022292
"Nex. yer INFO cre 1
NEXT Ao so-f-re-€ D : |
REF Si53 ° RUN OER i
i
i

“HE DESLRED<RETURN ‘OF-HIS=US-PPT AS: WISHED~TO RETURN. TO :U8i

sLOUISIANA,~ ‘FORMER-+RADAR-OPERATOR “IN UNITED STATES MARINES *

WHO DEFECTED-TO-USSR -IN OCT 1959. OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN

aot eh "MUNDRED- SIXEY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY Harr,

2. ON 31 OCT 1959 HE ATTEMPTED TO REN

STATES S29 ee repre ang gpa ie

INDICATING HE HAD APPLIED“FOR-SOVIET CITIZENSHIP. ON 13 FEB $ U4Qit- |

THE US EMB.MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD. ’

POSTMARKED MINSK'ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ EE NS
7 A ew 7

COULD” COME“TO*SOME AGREEMENT “CONCERNING; THE*DROPPING**
OF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME.” * JULY<ON: Ht
-INITIATIVE HE: APPEARED AT“ THE EMB WITH HIS: WIFE™TC ‘SRE ABOUT HIS
RETURN TO STATES. -SUBJ. STATED THAT HE AC’ SHAD NEVER APPLIED
FOR..SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT :HIS APPUECR AN NAT
THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO” REMAIN. IN USSR.A‘ND*] 'EMPORARY EXTENSION
OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOI ase EQUESTe THIS
APPLICATION, “ACCORDING TO OSWALIS\’ INED NO REF TO SOVIET -
CITIZENSHIP .:"OSWALD “STATED. BEEN EMPLOYED’ SINCE: ae alee

13 JAN 1960. IN BELORUSSIAN AND TV FACTORY IN MINSK Dd wi OF
WHERE WORKED ASMETAL WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP. OSWALD WAS .
MARRIED ON. 30-APRIL 1961 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A 5
DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17 JULY 1941 USSRe NO HDQS TRACES. / A,
HE ATTEMPTED.-ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE
COULD APPEAR:AT..EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW. HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO-HIM. US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING
EFFECT ON OSWALD.

3. LATEST. HDQS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1962
SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND
BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE
HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR: THET IR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD
TO USA.

di, STATION SHOULD PASS INEO BEE |ND-PABA ONTO, ~
TPELIDE,_ODENVY, ODOATH y AND ODURGE LOCALLY. T ARAS
WO AND THREE ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.

(CONT PAGEsTYO)

T

Ec RE
CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

oom aes

OTE.

6200183.

REPRODUCTION
PROLIBITED co spa



13-00000

we ae * REPRODUCT
eistr: CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ome: PROGIBIT

ACTION:

fon

INFO: rive:

i DEFERRED PRIORITY |
3 TNiTTAcS 1
; OPERATIONAL

AE] | rownne mieDiare i
To 5 wo ore

PAGE TWO DIR TAB30--IN 5945 . re __—

cS e "REF “AND* POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

TO HDQS OF ODENVY, ODACID, ODOATH, AND ODURGE. PLS KEEP

. bere FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION
WALD

INCOMING

REPRODUCTION :
PROMISITED y we

see et apatite ay



13-00000

 ‘RePHOOUCTI|
PROMIEITED

~

To + DIRECTOR

FROM WEXICO CITY .
; BS cary

ACTION: «WH 8 aan

INFO ADDP, Cl, Ci/ops, ct/sp, FI, SR 7, RF, VR

Xk fen Sw ag 1S New’

SE* RET 1517302
SYP UTE

LOIveRovE *

PCF DIR 74839 *

SECRET

t
C/S COMMENT: “ATTEMPTS OF LEE CSWALD” AND WIFE TO REENTER U.S.

0000185

CLASSIFICATION Renew wl
“on 1 &
: i a | CONDUCTED ON.
Document Number ee i Ot
1 FOIA Review on APR 4918 r [ESeiwroer cx wr-202228) LL22 08

oie AGTLYGL

hy} Ste [Bet 67
REPROOUCTION er

IG OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED

PROMETED———



13-00000 .
Vimy i304 5 4) | eae

REPRODUCTION

RG. GFOESTETNER
ts CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare: PROHIBITED j
'STRa Commo 5 Chrono; SECRET FILE:
Caer Oawale— CLASSIFICATION
DEFERRED PRIORITY INITIALS | TG, NUMBER

OPERATIONAL |“ initiate
poge__ ROUTINE IMMEDIATE | |
ig DIR INFO, Cie | MBXI aol 4.

LCIMPROVE
"REF? DIR 74850
PLS POUCH PHOTO OSWALD.

in EE 4a oo aw oe

fog POM Rashes os
Sime a 3- my

COORDINATING OFFICERS: :
FOESTESNER SECRET WCCURTIS

Gi
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
OUTGOING

Steg IS

| AEPDaDUCTN ao

PROGIBIMED



REPRODUCTION
pRonaetre

15 Ostover 2

SCRAMEAM POR 1 ‘the finbansador

+ Winston M. Sects

SUBIECR Lge OSWALD /Contect
Ambassador wetrfrod by COS Merits

gh the Sovtet Zpiaanr

1. The following informetion ws received, fran a usually veliabis and
aoxtrenely sensitive somes: On 1 Cstoter 19635, on American mele compacted - |
the Soviet inbassy end idontifted binselfas Lee OSWALD. This cffice- de BF
termined thet OS4ALD bad tem ot the dorlct Samseny on 20 veptesber 1963 and Py
bad toiked with Yelerty Viadielrtyoch ZCSTTXOV, 5 menber of fhe Consuls?
Section, in orier to leam if the Soviet Esbassy bat received a reply tren
Saskington comeming his request. We beve no clarifying information with
regard to this request.

2. Cur Seadquarters haa inforsed us that the OSWALD-above ia probably
eee oe ee

te the Sortet Extaz im Soteber 19595,

3. ao en SS
do recetved.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
conoucten on_1 8 APR I

daison with Legal Attache
icon with Navel Attache

nit numb 2———
view on wee we

for FOIA Re’
RECORD “CORY | xopla grads

No nenorandun ‘to Legal Attache on 8

‘Documet

Netober 1963; however, note nenorandun

to US Arbassador (dated 16 October)

also included Lezal Attache in distri-

i : bution. |

| REPRODUCTION hel
PRONIeTTED



13-00000

PROM 4 MEXECO CLIY © cite
actignts C/MH 5 (cos DY ISSUED TO DCI, 1810 22, KOV BP. ater a nt ae
INFO; DCL, p/oei, AL Se Ee ale, —
XX_.. —— _—_

SECRET 2222292 <

IMMEDIATE DIR(CITE MEXI 7314

REFS

Ae. YMEXI 6453 (m3 Gol?)
B. HDIR 74836 ~
C.4, MEXI 6534 (iv 4o3s7)r

1.. ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD aT STATION REcgRee
kee’ a

PRESIDENT KENNEDY ASSASSINATION, ONE LEE H. OSWALI

oF” PRESIDENT KENNEDY.
2. DIRECT Has ATTENT LON .RERS.

3. REQUEST PRIORITIRNOM PHOTO OSYALD SO THAT STATION
FCRYARDING

CAN CHECK ALL. RECENT LIENPY COVERAGE FOR IDEN.
SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT WKO COULD

SE IDENTICAL WITH OS¥ALD.

SECRE

Di 2oo-SHEb
Pocuneht Nutter =I

for Fe FOIA Review on BPR 1976

RAN ER

ee Se Ene tres

EPRODUCTION

~"PROLIBTTED .

2oteAFIAGE

Copy No.

uw



13-00000
4)

loo ( \ REPODUCTIC

On’. -GESTETNER

EXT CLASSIFIED MESSAGE (TED
STR: COMMO SECRET

- XXEX CHRONO (DUMMY) CLASSIFICATION

: ea] INITIALS ‘NUMBER
i DEFERRED PRIORITY

? OPERATIONAL | ariacs

i | ROUTINE L_ IMMEDIATE

jo. IMMEDIATE DIR. nro, cit MEXL
RYBAT
REF tev MEXE 6453777

°" Be DIR 74830 -
C. MEXI 6534

> .
is H-PHOTO:OSWALD SO THAT STATION
aie

TY COVERAGE FOR IDEN, FORWARDING

U
SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28°0CT WHO COULD

BE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD,

END OF MSG

COORDINATING OFFICERS

-
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

CUTGOING

REPRODUCTION | foe
PROLIBITED



13-00000

John a. Hhitte: Rg
CMH 3 10 inex

5613 0 No noc b-—
22 Hovenber 1963 U1 FILE IN CS FILE NO.

Oo ae ts 7 _ OEC.4. 14

FROM: DIRECTOR as ea EuicRoruMeD

cones C/WH 5, : perekeed UE

ico ; DOPS aoe cic, C/Fi 2 Gis 5, C/SAS 5, D/os 2, VR ROUTINE i
: |

oem 4802 7.

geton. cite. ©
seasons ana coordinate

4g appropriate.

0000190 =

' REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED vhy



nt

_ * REPRODUCTION
ae CLASSIFIED MESSAGE PRAUIBITE
= Action: : pave: [PAM c
INFO: SECRET FILE: fe we
isaiaern :
aTTALS Be TESTIS HOTTER
oe
wounne hoktmmesiee” [pre | gu azasuan | eeea
a : nes Cire
IMMEDIATE MEXI DIR-B402-
RYBAT -

REF. MEXI “70 ta)
1» THANKS» THIS: CONNECTION WAS ALSO NOTED HERE.
2. TRUST YOU WILL BE ABLE USE ALL YOUR. FACILITIES TO FOLLOW AND

23/00227

OTA I

‘PROAISITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

ROUTING.”

3]TO’ —s DIRECTOR

‘|FROM 1 MEXICO CITY , &3 £apy.

action, wi 8 (MR WHITTEN, Wa & NIGHT SECURITY OFFICER NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT
2015, 22 NOV BP)

INFO: DCI, p/oct? DDP, ADDP, Cl,

ct/oPs, CI/IC 2, Fl, SR 7, SAS 8, OS 2; VR

SECRET 2300532

. , ane
IMWEDIATE DIR CITE/MExI 7ar9 22!-
REF: MEXI 7a14 (Lae 66761

1, MEXI STATION HaS PHOTOS saME gettin AWERIGAN |
TYPE WHO IS possisi yFosuat EVTERUE Co
OCTOBER. SEARCHING FoR a 3
FN

CUBAN EMBASSY OTHER DAYS
2s

\ ALSO ATTEMPTING ESTABLISH OSWALD ENTRY AND DEPARTURE
-MEXIL :

EMBASSY ON 15
buato-pocumeNTED ENTRY.

SECRET

C/S Gorment:' *Request priority pouch photo 0 Oawald so'thaé Statioa can chack all
recent coverage for identity, Forwarding soonest copies of only visitor to SavEmb.
28 Oct, who could be identics! with Oswald. :

i .

iDigee-S-4]
ti Document ZL 19

lear FOIA Review on APR ‘81S
?

Bole gpa
2aNeou 63 EES

Copy No.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS’ PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION
 PROMIBITED

0000192



13-00000

PROM

. “ C_ _cuassieieo wessace -C; ns
one: JOHN M, WHITTEN |" u ROUTING
UN: C/WH/3 onmx Lb Be SECRET i €
BT : 5613 No INoex 7 .
DATE: 23 NOW. 63 OL ALEIN CS FILE NO, : 2
To: a Hoy27 a
MEXICO CITY oS oop 136 265
FROM: DIRECTOR ; ES QB Nev G3
cone: WH 8 : i .

wwro: DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADUP, Cl, Ci/oPS, CI/IC 2, Fl, SR7, SAS 8, <>

we 82 MR | sue
(aria wo dae obama creon BABZL

To

Document Number

ce Ra Nev’ 23 Nev-
RE MEXI 7019 (IN 66846) +

SEND STAFFER W ITH ALL PHOTOS OSWALD TO HQS, NEXT :

C/S Comment: *Reference attached. .
al

si

for FOIA Review op = APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
16 APR 197%

CONDUCTED

Digee Be / ES umoper ch yaa aee BeAAAdLE

L
WY MaQfoug esd pp oo,
JCHN M, WHITTEN by direction’ -°¥!
THOMAS BARAMESSINES DINATING OFFICERS
rar) SECRET
tet REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE-IS PROHIBITED. Copy Now»

AUTHENTICATING
‘OFFICER

0000193

REPRODUCTION |
PRONE

REPRODUCTION



13-00000

BIRCH O'NEAL

uit: C/S1/SIG ts SECRET ima

er: $367 peas cast —: men 2

BATE! 23 NOV.63.__ (207 HEC Ht ne ~~ Kl

TO + MEXICO CITY H reac

&S:topy,

FROM: DIRECTOR

con:C1/S1 .

info :0C1, 0/OCI, DOP, sooe( (ex ci/ops, Ct/IC 2, Fl, SR 7, WH 75
0s 2, * ?

& _ —

wo IMMEDIATE MEXL INFO

REF: MEX! 6453 on ae

1
lL IMPORTANT You REVIEW ALL LIENVOY TAPES AND

TRANSC! IPTS SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER To. Lote) ALL MATERIAL
PF

OSE a Ee TO. SUBJECT REE,

a

END OF MESSAGE

cs Comment: Peon that om I October 63, an American male who said
his name was-Lee | Oswald was at the Soviet, Embassy in, Mexico City.”

2oj-2F7 agd
REO S= FTF
23 Nev 63

for FOIA Review oe "APR 1976

ot 0S bap
HMhisawr~ aaterrieres

foiwn
v.

cooroin,

THE? eatsaa
OFFICER

‘ EGRET.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE-ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

ASS TET Nellis pen Tete

TE eg

0000194

EPRODUCTION .
PROWMBIMED ee



REPRODUCTION
ater | CLASSIFIED MESSAGE PROMIBITED.

ACTION:

INFO: FILS:

= TNITIALS. ore INCOMING furuER
CerERRED PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL | INITIALS

. ROUTINE MAMEDIATE PUO 2317167

TO INFO oie
IMMEDIATE MEXI “DER-EYEES—
REF? MEXI 6455 . ;

. “YMPORTANT You REVIEW ALL. LIENVOY. TAPES AND TRANSCRIPTS

SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL MATERIAL POSSIBLY PERTINENT ~
TO SUBJECT: REF...
‘Be. DISPATCH .SOONEST ‘BY, SPECIAL counsEe, STAFFER IF

CHRONO DUMMY

23718012 - SECRET
Cuassirication

INCOMING

0000195

REPRoueTIOn = ae
~ ” PROMIBRTED =



13-00000

“REPRODUCTION
__- PROKIRTED..
Cine oe

CONE: CAH 5

INFO: Dey, D/OC1, DOP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, c/sR 5, c/sas 5, D/os 2,
vR

ROUTINE

od 84888

TALLAS WERE NOT OF LEE CSWALD.
PEOTOS AND IS ALSO CHECKING ALL PERTINENT

: ait “5

OSWALD.

' 7 SASBIFICATION BPR tors 4f apF .
Ni ace -T¢/ ———— Dol-2K7aee
6S Bop ABNovés

COORDINATING OFFICERS =
‘amaacing aed

SBCRET ectastifcation |
REPRODUCTION 8Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUINS OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

0000196

| REPRODUCTION
_— PROSIBNTED



1 3-00900 5 ae
i CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

)

TO. © DIRECTOR
ROM 4 MEXTEOEITY 5
SCHON: ¢, 5 (MR, WHITTEN, WH, NOTIFIED AND COPY.SLOTTED AT 1255 3% Nov 63 LMs)
“FO.1 = DCI, D/oct, bop, ADOP, C/cl, C/Fi 2, c/sR 5, C/SAS 5, hes, 2, VR*

SECRET 2316592 23 Now 63 4
x N67 108,
[rent 1s > a

INMEDIATE DIR” GITE| NEXI 7023 Peco eae

LIENVOY, CABLES. . 0 RY
1. ON 28 SEP 63 sn.viibunan_cusan es CALLED SOV

CONSUL SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV ENB AND WISH

SPEAK WITH CONSUL. UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN TOLD SOV CONSUL QUOTE

"I WAS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO. YOUR CONSUL. I WAS JUST NOW AT

YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOK ny ADDRESS.” SOV CONSUL SAYS "I KNOW THAT".

WOHISSVTQ, ~

“ UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPEAKS RUSSIAN “I DID NOT know IT THEN.
“I WENT TO THE CUBAN ENB TO ASK THEM FOR MY ADDRESS BECAUSE Sue Y.
HavE mm, Sov CONSUL owHY DONT YOU COME AGAIN Oa oP

MONITOR NOTES

9Z6L_Ud¥ Fae au
MIA

ADDRESS with US IT IS NOT FaR FROM CUBAN
ery

NORTHAMERICAN “WELL, I*LL BE T mpict

UNIDEN NORTHAMER ICAN SPOKE Yee HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE

+ RUSSIAN.
2. IN VIE

LD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON 1 ‘ocr

f : a.
LIENYOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV-EMB 28 SEP, SUBJECT PARA ONE PROBABLY
OSWALD. STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE ERASED PRIOR VA

RECEIPT SE .
COND CALL ae ce7e/)

3. PaRA THREE NEXT 7014 DATE SHOULD BE ONE OCT “63. . SANE _—
SUSJECT VISITED SOVENBA OCT BUF NOT RECORDER LIENVOY THAT DATE. -
ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS. Zor FTAYY

MAKING EVERY EFFORT peter ihe OSWALDS ACTIVITIES wenger €5

ez) - 4 ~ ae
cae SECRET BES]

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE iS PROHIBITED Copy No.

EBT SORES Villa Rett ANS

0000197



ORIG.:

DISTR.

7 ay
_ “ REPRODUCTIOE
R.B. RIGGS PROWL IRITED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: EMBER 1963
CHRONO (DUMMY) poe ented Silvia DURAN P-

P-
Nonsex

ace)

ay ~
¥ SAYSJL KNOW THAT." UNIDEN nonaiis RICAN SPEAKS RUSSIAN "I

imiviacs | BFS
DEFERRED PRIORITY _
OPERATIONAL | wiriaca |
ROUTINE |x IMMEDIATE _
IMMEDIATE DIR INFO. 5 CIE MeExE -2923-
OP as
LIENVOY > 49-5, A

1, ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA DURAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SOV CONSUL
SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EMB AND WISH
SPEAK WITH CONSUL, UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN TOLD SO} CONSUL

QUOTE "T'WAS IN-YOUR EMB ‘AND SPOKE TO YOUR contends WAS

. ee
| JUST NOW AT YOUR EMS AND THEY TOOK SROBESS. SOV CONSUL

DID NOT KNOW IT THEN, J Se BY THE CUBAN EMB TO ASK. THEM FOR
* MY ADDRESS BECAUSE HAVE Ir." SOV CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU :

COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US IT Is NOT FAR FROM

CUBAN EMB,"" UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

RIGHT AWAY,"" MONITOR NOTES UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPOKE

TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE RUSSIAN,

2. IN VIEW OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON
1 OCT LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28 SEP, SUBJECT PARA ONE

PROBABLY OSWALD, STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE

KKASEX COORDINATING OFFICERS
. SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

0000198


= 7 * REPRODIICTIC
| ext CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: PROLIBITED

Page 2.

LA
DEFERRED | PRIORITY inrrinca | ora, — |
ROUTINE ae er

TO INFO. . CITE

om,

S

~woneER
ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL,
ocr pan REPEAT ONE
3. ‘PARA THREE. MEXI.7014 SHOULD BE-ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECT

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE,

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS,
———

COORDINATING OFFICERS,

RBR SECRET woo beg
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
OUTGOING

| REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED



13-00000

wt ; : CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

DOG. MICRO. SER)’ |
DEC 4 1974
MICROFILMED

TO 1 DIRECTOR

C3 COPY;

FROM 4 MEXICO CIT

ACTION, ¢/sR 5, (MR. WHITTEN, WH AND MR. BAGLEY, SR NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1605 |
23 NOV 63 Wa) |

Et, c/ci/ops, c/Ft, C/wi 2, D/0S 2, VR

'NFO 4 DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP,

—eeBAT REDWOOD exes et

REF A. DIR 84837 * “Ox:
B. DIR sages * “YS
SBIR 84886 * 4f appropriate...

1. PARA I-A REF A, STATION'S IMMEDIATE AND WosT L1Ket)

CHECK INDICATES Go’ “Br en Prost r50v TRAVEL our sunt! en 2 uost RECENT

“Line REPORTING 6 THRU 19 NOV SHOWS Nat’ sov ena every *

“DAY. (NO LILYRIC REPORTING 9-19. oo) Nov.) WILL GET REPORTING

~ EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE. KOS

2
UNDER LIEMBRACE SURVE:

IVITIES 22 NOV. PLACING HI

2. PARA 2B REF A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB ‘AND’ SO’
ACTIVITIES 17. NOV TO DATE. _ leonoueren oxt_6 APR 1976
3. WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS A
4. REF 8, INMEDIATE AND: PROBABLY DEFINITIVE “CHECK SHOWS NO OTHER
ALFERIEV TRAVEL. Lininie REPORTING SHOVS ALFERIEV AT’ SOVENB 6

AASSIPGATION REVIEW

9/6 ue °° peed VIOd 105

7 on quownsocr,

THRU 19 Nov. <NO uve It. COVERAGI

16 AND 1617 NOV.)

5. COVERING ALFERIEV ACTIVITIES SAME aS WITH KOSTIKOV.: WILL
3
PLACE RIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP. Rb/- age

Di2doo-s-41 24 68. 20PK porate

“RT. ne 6>
Prol- 368682. SECRET . ;

0000200

engin er meet,

\
!

REPRODUCTION
PROVIBITED CR



j arilo cupy of a racks anh
ASSIFIED MESSAG!

6. OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S a U
AND CURAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE. HOWEVER, STATION STAFF
COMBING ALL AVAILABLE MATERIALS. -

to STEPPING UP RECEIPT ALL INCOMING MATERIALS COVERING SOVEME,
TRYING GET LIFEAT COVERAGE OF SWITCHBOARD ‘OF APT BUILDING WHERE
RESIDE FIN KAZANTSEV, aee KG3 RESIDENT KONSTANTINGV AND SUSPECT
GRU SHCKUCHKIN. HAVING LipawN REPORT MOVEMENTS sIDOROV is

brary

MAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST SID. INCOMING LIFEAT ON =
KGB KUZNETSOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP. 6 2
8B. PROBABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY. TAPES ERASED,
HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES. Liewor CENTER. SEP CASLE
PROVIDES VERBATIM TRANSCRIPTS.

SEC

wee 6 Pant .
C/S COMMENT: *Requested information concerning V; sith
Kostikov. AC

rovich

“i at
-



(4)

oa ea i

ORS:  gEK G.F,GESTETNER

a

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE:

OISTRs MMOes— | oer | FILE: Pin
exRONO (DUMMY): | oer | KOSTIKOV P-
: ALFERIEV P-

Nomen

DEFERRED PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
ROUTINE INEDIATE

TNITIALO a

T8E
10 IMMEDIATE DIR INFO. ONE MEXI -aoneaa-
AT REDWOOD LCIMPROVE -
, LRYB, ; ; SIP om OF
REF: A. DIR 34837 .
B. DIR 84935.
i

Cc. DIR 84886:

PARA la REF_A, STATION'S IMMEDIATE, AND-MOST LIKELY

DEFINITIVE CHECK INDICATES NO OTHER KOSTIKOV wets
E ay
Ss
. i Wed
KOSTIKOV AT SOV EMB EVERY DAY, care’ PORTING 9-10
AND 16-17 NOV,). WILL GET PN hy THIS AFTERNOON RE 7
KOSTIKOV ACTIVITIES 22 eo HIM UNDER LIEMBRACE
SURVEILLANCE,
2. PARA 2B REF A, NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVEMB

PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES !7 NOV TO DATE,

3. WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS ASAP.

4. REF B, IMMEDIATE AND PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS
i NO OTHER ALFERIEV TRAVEL, LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV
AT SOVEMB 6 THRU 19 NOV,_.(NO.LIY RIG, GAYERAGE 9-10 AND 16-17 NOV.) “°

| . SECRET
| AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
i "

OUTGOING

He — 0200202

i
}
i
i
H
i
<
|

»

_ REPRODUCTION oe
PROKIBITED



wy

< REPRODUCTION

ext: CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare: PROMIBI IBITED
iste . SECRET FILE:
Page 2. CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED priorty | = p= —
ROUTINE OPERATIONAL | witiats
ro INFO. . ene

RUN
ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL,
REPEAT ONE
3. PARA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63.. SAME SUBJECT.
VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE,
ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS, = fide
chan

4.0 ‘MAKING EVERY EFFORT egtmemnen OSWALDS ACTIVITIES

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RBR SECRET wec
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
: QUTGOING

REPREDUCTION |
PROLIBITED ee

v



13-00000

OEC4 wa
MICROFILMED

To biRecroR eS copy
FROM + races

ACTION: ght (¥R WHITTEN, WH, si ALLEY SR, AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED
caoy cones ATs 1700

INFO 8 ely D/ocl, DDP, ADOP, Teen 5 un re c/sR PBs ‘nie
a4

SEGRET 2328542

_ MMREDIATE DIR _

fe

{ Hote: If decrasticn, eite
1, FOLLOWING _FULL TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE. SSTeseeenrsa tena
2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIENVOY REPORTED FOL: “ENTRADA WF DEL
CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN SU CONSULADO ESTA UN’

“ NORTEANERIGANO QUE ESTUVO ALLE EN LA EMBAJADADA RUSA. HD QUE
“ESPERE UN MOMENTO. MF ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA INGL! .
PERSONA FUERA Y COMENTA.EN ESPANOL QUE La PUSZEROMEELEF ONO A
APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL i 12, cate DICE SOBRE, EL
CLUDADANO NORTEAMERICANG Y cea HaBLAR. HF HABLA RUSO.
HD LE HABLA EN INGLES.” 6 Suan ASKS: NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU
SPEAK RUSSIAN?" “THEN WHY DONT: YOU TALK TO HIN?" NORTHAMERICAN
TAKES PHONE AND SAYS IN BORKEN RUSSIAN “I WAS IN YOUR ENBASSY AND

=)

sequin wpunoog

SPOKE TO YUOR CONSUL. “JUST A MINUTE.” MAN IN SOV ENB ASKS
NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICANS

“PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN”, SOVIETs “WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?”
AMERICAN: “I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY TOOK MY
ADDRESS." SOVIET: “I KNOW THAT.” NORTHAMERICANs "I DID NOT KNOW

Diase=S=¢ | es omy Ne aT 4 2
“Doles Wo7LO SLOP; 23 New 63
550 Ez
° REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED — ‘Copy he
shore Rectan nates

0300204.

AP aeoUTin
~~ PROMIBITED -



13-00000

-. u

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S

“PEINGLASS NOTED NGRTHANERICAN SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE
"Russian.

“40: “YES, MY NAME IS OSWALD.” SOVIET: "JUST A MINUTE ‘I'LL

&
cre. REPRODUCTI
IT THEN, I WENT TO THE CUBAN EWBASSY TO ASK THEM FOR “PROIRITED
BECAUSE THEY HAVE IT," SOVIET: "WHY DONT YOU COME AGAI PIE

YOUR ADDRESS WITH US. IT IS NOT FAR. FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY.”

NORTHANERICAN: "WELL I'LL BE THERE RIGHT AWAY.” DOUGLAS J.

3. ON ONE OCTOBER 1963 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET EMB AND Sa!n
“HELLO THIS IS,

-EE OSWALD SPEAKING. I WAS AT-YOUR PLACE LAST £

SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID THAT THEY'D —_
SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED To FIND OUT IF You HAVE e
ANYTHING NEW? BUT I DONT REMEMBER THE NAME OF THAT CONSUL.” ~
SOVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): “KOSTIKOV: HE IS DARK.”

FIND OUT. THEY SAY THAT THEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED cau hels ae
HOs “HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?” SOVIET: “YES x

REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT pe tas Re iV ee AS YET.”
Os “AND WHAT. 6 2” SOVIET. Hat eae go
4 DOUGLAS J. j Cracnce: ANSE RANSCRIPTIONS SAYS OSWALD IS.

eT ON

IDENTICAL WITH pea IN, RAN, ONE 'sPE KING BROKEN RUSSIAN WHO CALLED

. en
FROM CUBAN ENBABSY “28 SEPTEMBER TO SOVIET EMBASSY.
SECRET

CS Gervnent: #Reaquested St
sioce 27 Sept, to lorate pe

tion review all LIENVOY (1) tapes and tra
ent information on Oswald.

ae . f
. . rs.
oor E oo”
oR eee Tern ate ete OT

0000205 «|

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBIMED



13-00000.._

me ePaooucrto
— PROHIBITED

ante CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pate: 93 NOVEMBER 1963

ay

nISTR: COMMO SECRET mueCpaasga>
CHRONO (DUMMY) CLASSIFICATION Silvia DURAN P=
— KOSTIKOV P-
t INITIALS rr
i DEFERRED PRIORITY marine | ores nunaen
Hl OPERATIONAL | rian
: ROUTINE hex IMMEDIATE |
;
k
TO IMMEDIATE DIR INFO, CME wexr =7025,-——-
. RYBAT LIENVOY ; og -
DUP CV 60-7 |
REF; DIR 84886 . A

1, FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE,
2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIENVOY REPORTED FOL: "ENTRADA
“MF DEL CSONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN SU CONSULADO ©

ESTA UN NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVO ALLIEN LA EMBATADADA

ine AA ue
RUSA, ‘UD QUE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. ee Y HABLA

INGLES CON ALGUNA PERSON, BEAR A 60 COMENTA EN ESPANOL QUE
a Lipid

LA PUSIERON TELEFONO

RICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL
1412 99. SILVIA LE DICE SOBRE EL CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO Y
QUE LES VA A HABLAR, HF HABLA RUSO, HD LE HABLA EN INGLES,"
SILVIA DURAN ASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU SPEAK RUSSIAN?" THEN
"WHY DONT YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN TAKES PHONE AND

SAYS IN BROKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND SPOKE TO YOUR

inal ESN ET ITE

CONSUL,"" MAN IN SOV EMB "JUST A MINUTE," MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS .

NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN:

‘2x COORDINATING OFFICERS oN
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

ib art



; Co ( REPRODUCTIO!
_ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: PROUIBITED La

DEFERRED PRIORITY inmiacs | Ors. NUMBER
OPERATIONAL | nine |
ROUTINE | IMMEDIATE
-
tied INFO, CIE LS

wounen

“PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN", SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?"
NORTHAMERICAN: "I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY
TOOK MY ADDRESS," SOVIET: "1 ®MK KNOW THAT," NORTHAMERICAN:

"I DID NOT KNOW IT THEN, I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK

THEM FOR MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THEY HAVE IT." SOVIET: "WHY

DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US, IT IS NOT

. Bu
FAR FROM. THE CUBAN EMBASSY. ” NORTHAMERIGANE Emu. BE

THERE RIGHT AWAY," DOUGLAS J, mamiGEAs PED NORTHAMERICAN
> SPOKE TERRIBLE HARD eeu RUSSIAN,

3. ON ONE OCTOBANII63 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET
EMB AND SAID "HELLO THIS IS LEE OSWALD SPEAKING, I WAS AT YOUR
PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID
THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND
OUT IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING NEW? BUT IDONT REMEMBER THE NAME
OF THAT CONSUL," SOVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV:
HE IS DARK," MO: "YES, MY NAME IS OSWALD," SOVIET: "JUST A
MINUTE I'LL FIND OUT, THERON AHS CEREY HAVEN'T RECEIVED

SEC.

RET.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

RT Na aa

0300207

REPRO TION aan
” PROKIBITED ~

i
H
i



“6

* REPRODUCTIO!
a . CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare: PROHIBITED

rm

c FILE:
ISTRas
° CLASSI GRTTON
Page 3,
iaus | Bree Womaen

DEFERRED a PRIORITY T
Z [| OPERATIONAL aaa

ROUTINE isM@MEDIATE
INFO. foilia ZoLe

ase

ANYTHING YET, MO: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES é
THEY SAY THAT A REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS
BEEN RECEIVED AS YET." MO: "AND WHAT.,?" SOVIET HANGS UP,

4, DOUGLAS I,.FEINGLASS WHO DID TRANSCRIPTIONS SAYS

_OSWALD IS IDENTICAL WITH PERSON PARA ONE SPEAKING BROKEN

RUSSIAN WHO CALLED FROM CUBAN EMBASSY 28 SEPTE.

Er

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENREMRNG OFFICER, CLASSBEERECH RELEASING@EFICER
OUTGOING

- REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED



13-00000.

c 7 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
} SECRET

QEC4 1974
__MICROFILMED

TO, + DIRECTOR

63 copy
ACTION® C/WH 5 ares vA TIEN re BAGLEY, SE AN ‘NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED AND
‘NFO + pci, D/OCI, DOP, ie saya 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/oS 2, VR

“— L

FROM © MEXICO CITY

i
SECRET 232945Z

7 —
IMMEDIATE DIR-CITE MEXI 7028 Ben
aaa “ 23 hlor63 67 § 87
REF mexr 7005 (vu £797 )* ——

1 \
1. COS HAD URGENT CALL To see LITENSOR 23 Nov.

eal
2% GOS THOUGHT VOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION CONDOLENCE.

QER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED

THAT LIENVOY Sia0 LocaTeD cat To sovieT eusassy OF LEE OSwaLD

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER,. *
> 3. BELIEVE FaCT THaT LITENSoR AWARE OF

JOINT OPERATION) AND PaSsED DaTay
SECRET. Wy pot
CS Comment: *ForwardedQs Vv!

GONTKCT (FROM OUR
Gia
oy IMPORTANT.

of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

RECORDS OFF1+ER STAMP

The followins ae is J
authorized: 7 Gavan Ls

=
SS

Signed: ____—

SPYETS~AG 70 t3caw—p3

R.0. #1 - Unit CzA0S
f ae arses
~ iam TEE tee
reasons =
DN, VWs -Y¥ t - & COPY, af aperensa ee
eee camert Number SA=549 fas
m7 AC “for FOIA Review on APR. 1976

o SECRET

RSPRODUCTION BY GTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

REPREOUCTION =.

PROGIBITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROGISITED

7” INTERNAL i

UNCLASSIFIED [fi [INTERNAL 1 c(-HDenTiaL [1] SecReT
| ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

[50m open

FROM: BTEEION | NO.

ACTION COPY

TO: (Ofteer detignetion, room number, ond DATE
beilding) pe

meceveo | ronwasoeo

0200210

2 610 “iS” [] SECRET CONFIDENTIAL] US Gi

| REPRODUCTION
| PROMISED

LL] UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

Gap ue! {34}

, \ pepxooverion

“es One
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: WT
coMMO SECRET FILE: @=B593>

CHRONO (DUMMY) LITENSOR P

i] | pererreo | | priory | ™""* numa
1 Fayeuna allt Om ere

F ROUTINE Ik

tO IMMEDIATE DIR INFO. CE yest

KAPOK

REF: MEXI-7025
1, COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SEE LITENSOR 23 NOV.
2, COS THOUGHT WOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION

, CONDOLENCE OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED THAT
EB yowaLD

. LIENVOY 2 HAD LOCATED CALL TO SOVIET EMBASSY

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER,

8 was
AWARE OF THIS CONTACT

aie cs

ee ARS
(FROM OUR JOINT OPERAHONLAND PASSED DATA TO COS IS IMPORTANT, 7”
wer .

3. BELIEVE FACT THAT LL?

END OF MSG

COORDINATING OFFICERS

. SECRET wW.c.c,
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING .

REPROBUICTION |
PROWIGIED = : 7



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROTIBITED

. . CLASSIFIED MESSAGE C
SOCIO SER? — SECRET

pec4 wr
MICROFILMED

i] 1 DIRECTOR

ROM § MEXICO CI

ACTION: c/w 5. (UR WHITTEN, WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED ATs 15 23 Nov we)

Lod D el, pect, bop, App, </ct, c/rl 2, c/sR 5, C/SAS 5, D/0s:
* . RECORDS OFFICER STAMP ~

SECRET 232048: authorized: J

IMMEDIATE DIR(CITE MEX1 “7929

ftgned: ©
_ + RO. #1 - Unit Cara ice seneee

ShEF he DIR 64888» _
—_—_—_—_——— ction, cite

Be MEXI 7025 Lin 6703) « Feasons and oordinate art
19

if eppropriate. —_.+
b. SAW ruta OF LEE OSWALD ON TELEVISION silt 200" 2a

DALLAS. DATES ARE AS GIVEN ON PHOTOS. X
; 2. MEXI STATION REVIEWING ee ABLE PHOTOS PERSONS ENTERING
‘QVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES. . .
3+ NEXT SUGGESTING TO LITEMPO 2 THAT SILVIA DURAN WHO
“MEXICAN EMPLOYEE AT CUBAN. EMBASSY AND WHO PUT LEE OSWALD ON
TELEPHONE FROM CUBAN EMBASSY TO TALK TO SOVIET EMBASSY ON 28 SEPT
FE ARRESTED IMMEDIATELY AND HELD INCOMMUNICADO. ‘UNTIL SHE GIVES
ALL a OF OSWALD KNOWN TO HER. (SEE REF BD
a LITEMPO 2 CAN SAY D.F.S. “ covERAGE REVEALED CALL TO HIM IF HE

NEEDS TO EXPALIN, CUSSIFCATION FRE,
|CONDUCTED. |
SECR T a

-_ “| E4aaPvET Ct BY_O472 Cf
zl

“Cs Comments: *Photos sent from Mexico City were not Those OF Lee Oswatl

**Forwarded a review of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.
20 2BT ay
LI) Reyes
tye 8 pay - 23 Moves
Document Number, a Py,
Jor FOIA Review on APR 1976 SECRET [eee |
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS, PROHIBITED = Copy No. |

REPRODUCTION 0000242
PROUIBITED


MESSAGE ¢

DOC. MIR’ SECRET
pec 4 1974
TO 1 DIRECTOR FILMED fy
: MICRO! : :
FROM + MEXICO C ° Copy;

ACTION: —C/WH 5(WH AND OS NOTIFIED ANDO COPY SLOTTED 1930 23 NOV BP)
INFO + DCI, D/ocl, ODP, ADDP/2/Cl, C/Fi 2, C/SR 5, scale

Mee aM,

0. #1 ~ Uatt Ss.
ae Note: If ction, cite =
oars Gu 6710s reasons and coordinate

if appropriate.
1. *FoLL ADDITIONAL CALLS LrEAvoY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY OSWALD;

=e
FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF-WOMAN OUTSINE; HF-MAN OUTSIDE;
_ MD-WOMAN INSIDE; HD-MAN INSIDE. .

As ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT "ENTRADA. HOMBRE
LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO SACER UNA VISA PARA IR A ODESA.

HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LLAME AL 15 60 55 Y QUE PIDA AL CONSUL. HOMBRE

"FUERA2 PIDE LA DIRECCION. HONBRE DENTRO: SE LA PROPORGEQN

Be ON 27 SEPTEMBER 65 CALL TO SOV CONSULATE. 1625. Spiros
MF DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA Peawamo AMERICANO
QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA raat Nan

LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIEi tee. QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PORQUE

Wo mayrey vios kORZEPZIAS  saGereWS

RANSITO PORQUE VA PARA

SZEL Udv~

ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS Dé“£A EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS
LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUSANOS TAMBIEN”
SE LA DABAN SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A ENIGRACION EN CusA Y
QUIERE SABER CON. QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABE TAMPOCO CON

TIYG-S

QUE PERSONS Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA PROBLEMA, HD
<4) 2 PAP eo }-2

SECRET 23Nev63 FE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED Copy No.

Se AT nga ew

0800243

‘GaLONGNOD)
ev 9 P°
MBIABY NOLLVOISISSYTO:

Ene pe ND me

aoquiny quoungsd

o

mS

iS
>



13-00000

£ —
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ae i REPMODUCTIO
LE PIDE ESPERE UN HOUENTO, WF IS SILVIA DURAN DEL Cons i TED
0
- CUBA Y EXPLICA LO NISHO A OTRO HD. ESTE LE DICE QUE LE PRO O

TELEFONO Y SU NOMBRE PARA QUE DESPUES LE LLAMEN. SILVIA SE LO

PROPORCIONA ASI COMO EL TELEFONO 11 28 47, Y QUE APROVECHA COO COSA
PERSONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA PODIDO aVIsaR
. PARA QUE LE ENVIEN,EL BOLETIN Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DAR. HD

LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOURKHARENKO PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE

LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO O AGREGADO CULTURAL. SILVIA DICE

QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 13 26. HD QUE GRACIAS.”

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV EMB TO

11 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE AMERICANO.
SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA. HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS QUE LES MOSTROZ
* DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA uRss PARA ALLA MUCHO |
“TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA, PERO TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO

LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO A SU PROBLEMA, PERO ESO seeuN
Los TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO 0 CINCO MESES PERC SIN TENER ESE
-PERMISO DE LA uRss DEBEN DE PREGUNATAR Y MAS BIEN NO SE. /EDE
DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO SIN PREGUNTARLE A waswxNeTOA Ep EGUN

ESTE SENOR LE MOSTRO UNA CARTA EN auE esx Wpien DE UNA ORGANIZAC ION
EN FAVOR DE CUBA Y HA Dino gues pb eennos NO PUEDEN” .

DARLE EL VISADO SIN EL vise pus Y AHORA HD NO SABE QUE HACER

CON EL, PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTF3TACION DE WASHINGTON.

SILVIA QUE ELLOS TaM@IEN, PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE. EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE COMO
EL YA. SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO RUSO

~
~

Tate aed ne een ee Ce inectoierm



13-00000

CLASBITIED MESSAUE

EN Cuga ¥ YA DE ALLA INSE A LA UF NO QUE La COSA eee
- ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON FERU VA A RECIBIR anone,

VISADO O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,.ELLA VA

A RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE VISADO ELLA

PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A CUALQUIER LUGAR ESE PERMISO POR EJEMPLO AQUI
: O EN CUALQUIER OTA PARTE LO.PUEDE RECIBIR, PERO AHORITA NO LAS

TIENEN. SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE TAMNPOCO SE LE PUEDE DAR “UNA CARTA

PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU Visa SERA APROVADA. HD QUE ELLOS ‘SOLO DARAV

=L VISADO SEGUN LaS INGICAC TONES. SILVIA QUE ENTONC ES ESO PONDRA

EN SU PLANILLA. HD ue TAMPOCO NO SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERDONE™

POR LA MOLESTIA. SILVIA QUE NO HAY CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS.”

De. ON 1 OCT 63 CALL AT 1931 HRS TO SOV MIL ATT IN BROKEN RUSSIAN:

* "HELLO. I WAS AT YOUR’ PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED TO YOUR .
“CONSUL. THEY SAID THAT THEY"D SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON

AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?" SOVIET:

“I'D LIKE TO aSK YOU Td CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUMBER.” MAN a IDEs

"PLEASE. " SOVIET: “PLEASE, WRITE IT DOWN 15 6@ 55 AND Ase,

i
CONSUL.” MAN OUTSIDE: “THANK YOU.” SOV. Puegsee*

E. on 3 OCTOBER 63 CALL To. SQVINT Sp an OUTSIDE: SPEAKS

aa
SOVIET. "HELLO. VISA FOR

IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN re
RUSSIA.” SOVIET: “CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE,” “MAN OUTSIDE:
"I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA." SOVIET: "PLEASE, CALL

ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL.” man OUTSIDE: “OH, THE CONSUL. “
SOVIET: "THAT'S RIGHT, 15 68 55.” MAN. OUTSIDE: “ONE MOMENT PLEASE,
I'LL HAVE TO GET A FENCIL TO WRITE THE NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSUE

REPRODUCTION oa
PROKIBTTED Le



13-00000

i
i
:

:
‘

CLASSIFIED MESSAG!

 RERRODUCTIO

ORIBITED

I DON’T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS. PLEASECALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL

THE VISA THERE?” SOVIET: “THAT DEFEHDS ON YOUK CONVE! PR

AND ASK YOUR QUESTION," MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE .
TELEPHONE AGAIN, SOVIET: GIVES TNE NUNBER To HIM AND TELLS HIM

TO ASK FOR THE CONSUL OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO. MAN OUTSIDE:
“THANKS. ” .

SECRET

CS Comment: *Forvarded a review of LIENVOY (1)'transe

Spe

REPRODUCTION — |
PROHIBITED oe



13-00000

CF vxaassine es

(CO cowFK ‘iran
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

=

EPHODUCTION
PRORISITED

(17 SECRET

TO: [Oficer designation, room number, ond

‘seihding)

* WHITE

REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

(1 ounctassiFied !
pul ea

0200217


eed 5

, ~ REPRODUCTICH

&.B, RIGGS
a CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare: BRONIEHED
ams COMMO SEGART on me
CHRONO (DUMMY) ES oso
mance] re ome
pererreo | | — priority ore

| OPERATIONAL |
ROUTINE bx Oh WATE |

~
3

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO. Duy Pp OF

BAG

RYBAT

REF: MEXI 7025

1, FOL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY
OSWALD; FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF - WOMAN OUTSIDE: ee

MAN OUTSIDE; MD.~- WOMAN INSIDE; M&XX HD - MAN fNSi DE

‘A. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT "ENTRADA,

HOMBRE LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO SACER UNA VISA PARA IR

asi
A ODESA, HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LLAME AL 15 60 55, ¥ Gti Pata.
Le oN

B. ON 27 sforeubee 63 CALL TO SOV CONSULATE 1605, HRS
"ENTRADA. MF DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA ALLI UN
CIUDADANO AMERICANO QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA '
EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER
CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PARQUE ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE
LA EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN

COORDINATING OFFICERS:

SECRE
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER
OUTSOING

hel : 0000218

va

REPREBUCTION

PROMISED


- : (sy

‘ *  REPRODUCTIC!
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE parE: P ROUIB (Te

NSTRe SECRET FILE:
Page 2. CLASSIFICATION

H DEFERRED PRIORITY isirace | Bra, NuMBEN

OPERATIONAL | initiace
| ROUTINE | IMMEDIATE

TO INFO, CITE -
LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUBANOS TAMBIEN SE LA DABAN

SIN MAS TRAMITES Lect AVISANDO A EMIGRACION EN CUBA Y¥
QUIERE SABER con QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABLE
TAMPOCO CON ous PERSONA Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA
PROBLEMA, HD LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. MF ES SILVIA DURAN

3 ESTE LE

DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA. ¥ EXPLICA LO MISMO A OTRO H

DICE, QUE LE DEJE SU TELEFONO Y SU NOMBRE PARA Oge DESPUES LE

LLAMEN.” SILVIA SE LO PROPORCIONA Asi G MO}
Y¥ QUE APROVECHA COMO COSA, pangs bisdus Bt ELLA SE CAMBIO
8

oe
3
\WISAR PARA QUE LE ENVIEN EL BOLETIN

DE DOMICILIO ¥ NO Hes

Y QUE AHORA SE Ave DAR, HD LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOUKHARENKO
H PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO
© AGREGADO CULTURAL, SILVIA DICE QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA
Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 1@ 26. HD QUE GRACIAS,"

Cc, ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV

EMB TO ll 28 47; "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE

AMERICANO, SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA, HD QUE SEGUN LAS.CARTAS
COORDINATING OFFICERS,

RELEASING OFFICER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

rena ore aa a OO Rae 7 pee, i

REPRODUCTION |
PROHIBITED | a



13-0000 wo

ot oe "REPRODUCTION
CLASSIFIED Mai ee uD PROMIB IBITED

HISTR. ——
Page 3. CLASSIFICATION
i DEFERRED | PRIORITY wurraus | ore. fanaa
i eS OPERATIONAL Waiviace
INFO. CITE

3

rt

QUE LES MOSTRO DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA

* URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA4 PERO
TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON RESPECTO
A SU PROBLEMA, PERO ESO SEGUN LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO

© CINCO MESES PERO SIN TENER ESE PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE

4) PREGUNATAR Y MAS. BIEN NO'SE LE PUEDE DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO :
SIN PREGUNTARLE A WASHINGTON PERO SEGUN ESTE SENOR LE MOSTRO

UNA CARTA EN QUE ES UN MIEMBRO DE'UNA ORGANIZA GION, EN FAVOR

DE CUBA Y HA DICHO QUE ELLOS LOS ome Nh NO debe baRLe EL

VISADO SIN EL VISADO RUSO ¥ * AOR akin QUE HACER CON EL,
me

(ONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON. SILVIA

PQRQUE DEBEN DE ak ks BA

QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, & Porque EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES Que EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE
COMO EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISALO
RUSO EN CUBA Y YA DE ALLA IRSE A LA URSS, HD QUE LA COSA ES QUE

SI.SU ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON PERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA
COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER cuSEA Seon RELEASING OFFICER
OUTGOING

“s 6200220

\

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBIMED



13-00000-

aay 1204

ove PROHIBITED

FILE:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

THITIAG

Page 4.

NUMBER

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
ThMMEDIATE

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

TNITTALe

REPHODUCTIO:

"033

Jv

INFO, CITE

EL VISADO O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,

“Toa

ELLA VA A REGIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE
VISADO ELLA PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A Guat ourer LUGAR ESE PERMISO
POR EJEMPLO AQUI O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR, -
eo | AHORITA NO Lis TIENEN. Shoat QUE ‘CLARO Y¥ QUE ee SE .

LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARTA PORQUE NO SABEN. SI SU VISA SERA APROVADAy~

HD QUE ad SOLO DARAN EL VISADO SEGUN LAS INDICAGIONES.

SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA EN SU PLAMELA,, HD: e TAMPOCO
SE LE PUEDE DAR NINGUNA cana nested yindncion PORQUE NO
SE LE CONOCE ¥ QUE ronnie Ce » MOLESTIA, SILVIA QUE NO HAY
CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS xcs, " ram Ylanre 4
D. ONL OCT 63 CALL AT 1031 HRY TO SOY IL ATT in BROKEN‘
RUSSIAN: "HELLO. «I WAS AT YOUR PRACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED
TO YOUR CONSUL, THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO
WASHINGTON AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?"
SOVIET; "I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU TO CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUMBER."

"PLEASE." SOVIET; "PLEASE WRITE IT DOWN 15 60 55
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

OUTSOING:

MAN OUTSIDE:

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER RELEASING OFFICER

osetia

eae

0000221



13-00000

ty

. : "REPRODUCTION
oe CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pare: PRI HIBITED

DEFERRED PRIORITY Cie || NoMnER
OPERATIONAL | wittacs
ROUTINE | i IMMEDIATE
een
TO INFO, cine SBE

ew

AND ASK FOR A CONSUL," MAN OUTSIDE: "THANK YOU." SOVIET:

"PLEASE,"

E, ON 30CTOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OUTSIDE:
SPEAKS IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET, "HELLO,
VISA FOR RUSSIA," SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE," MAN
OUTSIDE: "I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TOGO TO "RUSSIA. " soviet:
"PLEASE, CALL ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL." MAN OUTSIDE:

‘
MAN OUTSIDE:

"OH, THE CONSUL," SOVIET: ‘"THAT'S RIGHT, 15-805!

: ee
“ONE MOMENT PLEASE, I*LL HAVE<T0.GE Ys PENCIL TO WRITE THE
~ . os oo yw ie
at 2
NUMBER DOWN, THEY ISSUE)RHE VISA THERE?" SOVIET: "THAT
ao
DEPENDS.ON YOUR CONVERSATION, I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS.

PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL AND ASK YOUR QUESTION,"

|
MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE TELEPHONE AGAIN, SOVIET: {
GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM TO ASK FOR THE CONSUL
OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO. MAN OUTSIDE: "THANKS."

END OF MSG |

COORDINATING OFFICERS,

Re SECRET WCC
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER |
OUTGOING

REPREDULTION
PROMIBITED =:


13-00000

PROHIBITED

ECTOR

fi ea
GEC 41874
\

| MICROFILMED
TION: C/SR 5(MR BAGLEY. SR WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND com/S!dTT:

jINFO «© DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADCP, C/CI, C/CI/OPS, C/FI, Ching, Conds DFFICER STAMP

Y. lowing-action is
aE coe 2 =L Lo —
SEC RET 2322552 eI
IMMEDIATE DIR CITE WEXL 7034 Stgned: =

SP REDWOOD LCINPROVE RO. mM - Unt CLIPS

H

is :

| REF_pua 87837 4 dav canting
|

|

1

|

£ a 2 Brn
VFO + MEXICO CITY £3 bopy

1, MORNING 22 NOV LrEenvoy REPORTING SOVENB nonitat
Qe

8 10 L20GNEIS

161 Yay 9 EN? HONCHO

TO SPEAX WITH SUSPECT KGB PAVE, Al SONOS
|. APPARENTLY. UN AVAILABLE sage xsetano Pane ON LINE WITH ¥
| CONVERSATION ENSUING i PILAR FOR "TU":

> KOS: FORGIVE ME FOR ARRIVING LATE.

AGIASH NOWVOLISSVTO

Bere7T A

MIR: DID YCU RECOVER THE SUITCASE?

uo mojoy VIS 20%
goqunn quewnoogy

H KOS: YES. on

| o a

H NIRs THEN IT WAS ARRIVING ON THE OTHER TRIP. ~“

5 S

i KOS: YES, an _ -

H 5

: SIR: I CALLED TO TELL YOu THE FOLLOWING, THAT REGARDING gS OT

o

TdaT MATTER THAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT, TO SEE IF WE WO! <

IN GHAPLL

EG Pah BECAUSE MY WIFE IS PREPARING SHE Scan vo
EAT TH

BUT ft

G THiS VERY DAY,

0200223

"REPRODUCTION



13-00000

RePHODUCTION
- PROLIPITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO GO WITH YOU. (AT

3 AS AZCUE, AND MIR CORRECTS Hin, ©

AZCUE LOPEZ, FORMER CUBAN CONSUL),

KOS: HAVE YOU ALREADY TALKED Wit>

NECHIPORENKO?
"D LIKE TO TALK WITH PAVEL YATSKOV.

MIRs”

i
i -
KOS: WAIT A #INUTE, HE*LL COME NOW.

MIR: IF HE’S BUSY I°LL CALL Hilt LATER, BUT I°LL SE AVALLA

FOR THE NEXT HALF HOUR AT TEL NO 11 28 47.
i KOS: OK. °
3. CONTINUANCE LIENVOY SOVEMB REPORTING AFTERNOCY 22 Nov"

i 7
|. CABLED SEPARATELY. \
| Xd
i J

Ah |

0000224

REPRODUCTION
 “BeoeemrED



13-90900 ». = Se aa
a

~ REPRODUCTION
RG: RJL.EASBY
Te * CLASSIFIED MESSAGE “S SPOTTED
‘SIRs GOMMO ; SECRET File Pes s
CHRONO (DUMMY) P=; ——

—- Tana = Tinea
|

H DEFERRED xk PRIORITY
He | OPERATIONAL | wiriacs

ROUTINE IMMEDIATE
: oa
0 pRITY DIR wo pu OF CHE er alls
KAPOK S 5 -2%
: V 1, COMPLETE RECHECK PHOTOS ALL VISITORS TO CUBAN EMB

AUGUST THRU FIRST HALF NOV AGAINST GOOD PRESS PHOTOS SHOWS

NO EVIDENCE OSWALD VISIT. SIMILAR BLANK AGAINST ALL SOVEMB

PHOTOS FROMLSEPT. NOTE ONLY VISIT WE KNOW HE MADE WAS CUBAN_

EMBASSY 28 SEPT, SATURDAY ON WHICH EMB CLOSED AND WE HAVE

NOT HAD CovERAGE) IN FUTURE WILL REQUIRE AT LEAST.
PHOTO COVERAGE BOTH SOV AND CUBAN EMBASSIES,.

HALF DAY

LAES: ARRIVING MEXI CENTRAL
AiG .
WALD ARRIVAL UNDER ANY LIKELY

2, CHECK MANIFESTS ALL P:

AIRPORT FROM U.S. FALbS'Sai
ee

bee
VARIANT HIS NAME. PASSING THIS INFO GOM ASKING THEY CHECK

BORDER AIRPOTS FROM WHICH OSWALD MIGHT HAVE FLOWN MEXICO

CITY. WE DO NOT GET MANIFESTS THESE DOMESTIC FLIGHTS,

END OF MSG

COORDINATING OFFICERS

W.C.C,
aurwenHeaHhe orricen cLASEINEXTION RELEASING OSFICER
OUTGOING

USERRA PER cmt ge tad ager cee as

er

i : : 000225

a |

=

PROMIGITED _ oo



¢

1 INDEX
* Q/NO' INDEX
Cl FILE IN CS FILE NO.

“ro: yextco oxy

FROM: DIRECTOR

re Westy CABLE SEC Joerennco

conr:

cones WH 8 : ROUTINE

Inro's pcr, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP, Cl, C1/OPS, FI,’ SR 7, SAS 8, 0S 2, VR :
'

7O  DMRDIATS MEXE J INFO — = j ope 84920-

ILVIA DURAN, One

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
_ ont B APR 1976} ©
EAR MAPDET cL Bv.21ados|

ope
Di r00-5-¥ ( runner ‘APR 1976 © . Bot- 22T2Y!

SRY

COORDINATING OFFICERS

25 we REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEE

REPRODUCTION cs i
PROD =



13-00000

~ REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

rongises ) : ; ws |
{ i
Lo 7
pista:
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ACTION: DATE: 24 NOV 63
INFO: SECRET. ame
OE
. NESTING ROWSE 7
i] | pereareo 7
H ROUTINE 6702 -
To wee oie .
IMMEDIATE MEXI BIRGEERO—

LIENVOY 7

1. AFTER ANALYZING ALL. THE TRAFFIC AND READING THE STATENERE 0 oF
SILVIA DURAN, ONE IMPORTANT QUESTION STILL PUZZLES: Use -
OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO. CITY IN LATE SEPT gyntenRLy OCTOBER TO

GET A SOVIET VISA AND A cumane dahse a DID HE WANT TO TRAVEL

TO CUBA RIGHT AWAY, ALONE, OR HAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND

THEN LEAVE FOR CUBA, OR DID HE PLAN TO RETURN TO THE STATES FIRST
AND THEN LEAVE LATERe ALTHOUGH IT APPEARS THAT HE WAS THEN THINKING
ONLY ABOUT A PEACEFUL CHANGE OF RESIDENCE TO THE SOVIET UNION,
IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT HE WAS GETTING DOCUMENTED TO MAKE A QUICK
ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSINATING THE PRESIDENT.

2. PLEASE RESTUDY YOUR LIENVOY MATERIAL AND GIVE US YOUR OPINION,
AND ALSO HAVE MEXICANS QUESTION SILVIA DURAN VERY CAREF! milo Y ON i

THIS POINT. ADVISE. 4 Apr Duka :
v gsi? a

0000227

"REPRODUCTION
_  PRONIBITED


13-00000

‘ » REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

ZB 1304 : oo)

ONG: R,L,EASBY

ware CLASSIFIEZ ,
EXT LASSIFIGD MESSAGE "DATE: 24 NOVEMBER 1963

DistRz.. COMMO SECRET FILE: P-7976.
CHRONO (DUMMY) P-8593_)

Nuns

DEFERRED

OPERATIONAI
IMMEDIATE.

ROUTINE

TO IMMEDIATE.DIR INFO. CITE mex LEX ae ;
7 ' —
RYBAT DY i
pe
DIR: A, MEXI 7046 wD
B. DIR 84920 . {

1. ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENTS REF A:

. A. DURAN ARRESTED AT HOME, WAH HUSBAND AND MEMBERS
. 7 ae

F OF FAMILY WHO HAVING PARTY.

.B. SINCE SHE HASAZOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER
MEMBERS OF FAMILY ABOUT OSWALD VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME
AND SAW TV PICTURE, SHE ATTRIBUTED ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY y
COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIKE, THUS SOURCE GOM KNOWLEDGE NOT
REVEALED TO HER.
C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWLAD STAYED IN MEXI.
D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS STILL VALID FOR
USSR, HE TOLD HER WISHED RETURN THERE PERMANENTLY WITH WIFE.
E. DURAN HAD IMPRESSION OSWALD HAD OR BELIEVED HE
HAD MADE ARRANGEMENTS IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS

WCULD BE SENT SOVEMB MEXI_TOQ Is ENTRY VISA IN MANNER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATI RELE QSL a
CUTGOINS

| RePReoweTion
HIBITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROLIBITED

TR 1304 ; ; “4
( (
ORIG: , i
. i
ema CLASSIFIED MESSAGE pate: :
DISTR. Fes

Tarriacs

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

PRIORITY

INITIALS

IMMEDIATE.

To INFO, cite VLEX a

RoMsER

BY WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF HAVE TO VISIT SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS

REAL OR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED HIM.
BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. (COMMENT: PARA IC OF MEXI 7933

PARTIALLY BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS NO .UDENESS

IN OSWALDS TALKS WITH SOVS, FURTHER ae Di INTERROGATION

2 MAY REVEAL OSWALD BECAME ABUSIVE: aN S gabBAN EMB AS RESULT HIS
ey

FRUSTRATION BY SOVS.) Na ae

¥F. HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO COULD I ~

NOT LIVE COMFORTABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISHED \
RETURN TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN USSR, . . :
i

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHETHER HE GOT USSR VISA OR CUBAN

TRANSIT VISA BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART INIT.
ia H. IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY !

SHE UNAWARE,

2, REF DIR 84916 (IN 6687). ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN
RE LEAK AND HAS WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST

FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL BE LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED
COORDINATING OFFICERS.

SECRET .
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER, CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTEOINS 6200229

REPRODUCTION
PROTBIMED


13-00000

“REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITE

TB 04 ’ “( 4)
on |
{
ORG
Xt: CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: |
om u ;
© on cuassisication ; ‘,
Dercarco | | priorny | a ak
OPERATIONAL | _parace de
route | | GaRAbaye™ | |

Rio) INFO, CITE

UP SAME TIME, COS WILL CONTINUE PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH

ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE RELEASED BUT KEPT

UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE,

3. RE REF B, WITH MEX! 7933 HQ HAS FULL Transcfiats ALL
“A

PERTINENT CALLS, REGRET COMPLETE BREHECK ‘SHOWS TAPES FOR

pe Ake
THIS PERIOD ALREADY ERASED, “STA PEELING THAT ABOVE IS

Bly ee -
BEST ANSWER OBTAINABLE Er B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION

DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES, | -

END OF MSG 4
|
i
| :
. 0000230
COORDINATING OFFI
SECRET W.C.C.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: ‘CLASSIFICATION RELEASING GFFIter
CUTGOINS.

REPRODUCTION
PRORISITED



ges
i "y DIRECTOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FROM 4 MEXICO CITY.

eS ;

— __ RECORDS OFFICER STAMP
SECRET 24/1857%__ The follow tion is 7.

author tied LB. oar aa le, OA o
INMEDLATE DIA CITE|MEXI fest tase

sehen semeDiaTE : fr oe area

rer Mext 7046 C/N 67> D* Ro. gk uate GELS
bork g4o29 ** Tf des
reasons and coordinate
TIONS OR AMENDMENTS R A: if appropriate.
4
a\burelW ARRESTED AT HOME WITH HUSBAND AND MENBERS Oi
“HAVING PARTY. ALL TAKEN TO JAIL.

'B. SINCE SHE HAD. TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER MEMBERS OF FAMILY
sour osvaup VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME AND SaW TV PICTURE, SHE ATTRIBUTED

ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIKE. THUS SOs Gols

WHOWLEDGE NOT REVEALED TO HER, Docunipa cea
APR
C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWALD STAYED IN, MERE, for FOIA Review on

De PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER-WAS: ava FOR USSR. HE TOLD

HER “WISHED RETURN THERE gang sae in WIFE. Dor avqay y

—. DURAN HAD INPRESSION OSWALD HAD OR BELIEVED HE HAD MADE. ARRANGES g
HENTS IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS WOULD BE SENT SOVEMB MEXI TO $ g
ISSUE SOV ENTRY visa IN MANNER BY WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF HAVE TO VISiT 2 Zz
SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS REAL oR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED : g
HIM BECONE RUDE TO SOVIETS. ¢ COMMENT: PARA iC OF MEXi 7933 PARTIALLY — °
BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS NO SIGNS RUDENESS IN OSWALDS TALKS “a

280-44

Di A200 -s~¥¢ Bein

= 22D
B J Ol - O7 Y Cbg cSicion ay OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHI3ITED

Copy No.

LETS MNT GE mt

0800231 -

REPRODUCTION === . |
PROIBITED i



13-00000

( ‘ REPRODUCTI
| —.— PRORISITED,

Sa

77

WITH SOVS. FURTHER DETAILS DURAN INTERROGATION MAY REVEAL OSWALD
BECAME ABUSIVE. IN. CUBAN —MB AS RESULT HIS FRUSTRATION BY SOVS.)

F. HER INPRESSION HE SIMPLY “COMRADE” WHO COULD NOT LIVE Cour orT- |
ABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISHED RETURN. TO: reba HOME IN

oat

°
ttt aoe
5 Nise? VISA OR CUBAN TRANSIT VISA

USSR.

“G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WET HE
BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD so RR HEH

HM, IF. OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY SHE UNAWARE.

2. REF DIR 84916. ECHEVERRIA AWARE opYoKE CONCERN RE LEAK AND HAS, a
WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL
BE LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED UP SAME. TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE
PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE

RELEASED BUT KEPT UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE
S. RE REF B, WITH MEXI 7935 HQ HAS FULL TRANSCRIPTS ALL PERTINENT.
CALLS. REGRET COMPLETE RECHECK SHOWS TAPES FOR THIS PERIOD’ D’ ALREADY —.... ---

ERASED, STATION FEELING THAT ABOVE IS BEST ANSWER OBTAINABLE To.

REF B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES. Gaon G

SECRET

CIS COMMENT: #Echeverria told COS Duran completely coopesstive 3:
written statement attesting to two visits Ly Oswald.

#EDid Oswald want ‘9 travel to Guba rig
joia him th ad thea Leave for ‘Gate, ov did e plan 10 retet

thea leave ! o00v232

‘ ‘pgeeogueTian TET,

REPRODUCTION Ji OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED

— PROLIBITED -

fp A102

©



13-00000

(7 UNCLASSIFIED

"SRNAL

“REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

”
CONK ‘NTIAL

oO C ONLY (SECRET
—— ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional
FROm ON COPY == “ed TOS
~ Moy 25 1953
«| Shain Seven: com member ond Dare mmcgns | COMMENTS (number each commana shew fom whan
es ee comment
% - %
: SiviT ; 2
suv a&
» WHITE &
x

{71 SECRET

REPRODUCTION
°PRORBITED

gst

(en
0000233

(] CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
O USE OALY

[[] UNCLASSIFIED

t
t
5


13-00000

| " REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITE
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE C \

TO 1 DIRECTOR

{SECRET

i
| 0m © MEXICO CITY
ACTION: c/w 5 (WH COPY ISSUED 1300 25 Nov/o4)

INFO. + Dele D/oct, DOP, ADOP, c/sop h, c/ca 2, c/ca/o 2, c/ci, C/ri 2, c/sr 5;
c/SAS 5, Dj pjos 2)

SECRET 25/17:
IMMEDIATE DIR ITE MEXI 7055 ~
Leaaiid Fi
1. MEXI DAILY “EXCELSIOR” OF 25 NOV IMPLYING OWN INVEST IGAT IONS RAN

pee

STORY DESCRIBING OSWALD TRIP TO MEXICO 26 SEPT THRU 3S OCT. CROSSED
‘ BRORDER AT LAREDO. VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY 27 SEPT AND NEXT DAY WENT TO .
» SOVIET EMBASSY. PURPOSE ALLEGEDLY WAS TO OBTAIN VISA GO SOVIET UNION. THIS

nor OUR LEAK. cANNor ELIMINATE GOBER NACLONN AE 9¢ RC

+ 2+ FYIs PRESUME Has IS Qi OF ale rere rn HAVA 7 srr
: & 4
1963. AT RECEPT LON 7 HBASSY FIDEL caSTRO IS QUOTED: " VE

i ARE PREPARED TO FI THEM AND ANSWER IN KIND. UNITED STATES LEADERS

SHOLLD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS TO
ELIMINATE THE CUSAN LEADERS, THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE.”

paanne GLASaIFCATION Revie
The folloring aottg
7 on —— “~" authorized: Sekt, Zi ze

Di Qe Bh. U fs

Document Number 24232, 4-33

‘Ton, cite "Die Sy fe
coordinate
ae 25° Newes

for FOIA Reviewon APR 1975 a
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED Copy No.

i

|

25Nov63W8 7620 i

ye : gery od

| 3. PARA ONE STORY WENT OUT ON AR EOD Yo a

0000234

ie egayeTian
AOITED_



13-00000

OF unciassieven = ERMA,

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ~

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

( CONFY “NTIAL (1 SECRET

" WAVE. S14 9-CF16
mn Nov 25 1963 a

TAls CALL WAS

HEARD BY bars PY
people

DuP og

ae pernaps weeTA
TT beac fet leg AT STHFE

S92 i

pee
| pies" t

ACETINE. — TE Holo

Now fs6CULE

[UTEAWAT OAL hee
ARE:

a
000235

fore 610 “ime ] secret «=

EPRODUCTION
SPRORBIMED

EZ)

CONFIDENTIAL =) Uieumty © -C] UNCLASSIFIED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

rrr Sd
f ROUTING

or

TO 1 DIRECTOR 6
FROM JNWAVE
ACTION: SAS 8”

INFO + DOP, Cl, i (O28, Fl, FI/INT, WHT, VR

SECRET 2529212 : . oe
DIR INFO MEXI CITE WAVE 2149
TYPIC

1. ODFOAH ADVISED WAVE THaT PSO!

CALL FROM SNE JOSE SAN ANTONIO
CABACA IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186354) TO DR. EMILIO NUNEZ PONTUONDO,
MIAMI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMSER 63. CONVERSATION WAS IN SPANISH

AND GIST. OF IT IS: PLAN OF CASTRO CaRRIED Beery S NEXT.
ees

SOON THE ATONIC 30"BS WILL nar cent NOS *kNOW FROM WHERE.
2. WAVE TRACES weit SUSJECT 221-312364. 4

NO RECORD CASACA. von AMOT-2 ADVISED CABACA IS FROSASLY JOSE
ANTONIO CASARGA SAINZ, DPOB CIRCA 1918 PROVINCE LAS VitLas, cusas
CURRENTLY RESIDES MEXICQ-CITY, PO 80X 3499 AND HAS SAME PHONE

NO. PARA 1 ABOVE. HE IS NOy OCCUPIED WITH O8TAINING MEXICAN VISAS
FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUSS. HE IS PRONOUNCED SaTisT IANO
AND RIGHTIST WITH TIES TO BaTISTA GROUPS IN U.S. AND

ALIANZA PARA EL PR

ESS DE AMERICA.

= PARA @ INFO.

BLRSmMPDET CL By_ILZ2I5

Document Number Lota >. 73

for FOIA Review on .
if wh APR 1976

Ql APTA VE

vp? REPRODUCTION BY
K-BAS ft {H ;

‘REPRODUCTION
+ PROWBITED

0000236



"REPRODUCTION
‘PRORIRITED_.

(tnCLassiFiep CoC ea con” lentian (1 SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

‘SUBJECT: (Optional)

BENSON |

ACTION COPY

TOs (Officer designation, room number, ond DATE.
‘uileiog)

FROM:

c}

0000237

fem 610 “einer” (C] SECRET CONFIDENTIAL HEY ]sUNCLASSIFIED

ES)

EPRODUCTION
PROREIED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBIT

TO a DIRECTOR

FROM & MEXICO CITY

ACTION: ¢/WH 5 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1430 26 Nov/LNG)
INFO 4 DCI, D/OCI, DOP, ADDP, C/cl, C/FI 2, 6/sAS 5, VR, D/OS 2, C/SR 5

SECRET 2618392
INFEDIATE MANA INFO IMMEDIATE D
Perea

1. AT THIS MOMENT STATION: OFFICER AND LOCAL SECURT

Tolley 83168291
TY-OFFICER <

ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN WHO CLAIMS THAT ON 18 SEPTEMBER HE SAW
" LEE OSWALD RECEIVE SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS IN MEETING
2

INSIDE CUBAN EMBASSY MEXIL.
2. REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE MEXI oF) ee an

ALVARADO, BORN 31 JAN 1948 CIUDAl a ve, “NICARAGUA. Gains |
HE AWAITING FALSE ms on PRICR RECEIVING SABOTAGE

TRAINING CUBA. cars MN LO, ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS
FONSECA AMADOR ARE wenseRs HIS (COMMUNIST?) OR EANIZAT ION
NICARAGUA.

seit RECORDS OFFICER STAMP
SECRET whe following action is

autHorized: “DE SENS) 77ZE i
Document Number (24 54 ¢

samets CNet
for FOIA Review on APR 1976 Signed:

Ro. f- nit C// ZA

Kote: If destructicn, cite

a ‘dinate
se Re DTA |

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

conoucren on.24 MAY 197 : 26 MEYER |
SECRET : tee ;

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED ‘Copy No.
nee . OT ~T §000238 u

ee eee |


13-0Q000 — ~~ noe . ee eee

¢ CLASSIFIED_MESSAC
JOM Me WHITTEN:
fas Pins | SECRET
5613, 1 No mir |

F
{2869 nBommmme 1963 6 FLEIN C5 mL No,
bro. + smteo omy
FROM: DIRECTOR

one
wr:

7 cone: C/WH Y DEFERRED
| ~ x| ROUTING
iwro ey, fort, DOP, C/cl, C/ci/Si, VR
| - |
i 10 MEXI INFO CHE oR, B77 70

RYBAT- ~GPFLOOR XN
9

_ REP: MEXE 72h1. (IN 73638) *

PLS DO NOT ERASR{ANY SOVIET OR CUBAN TAPES UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.

Sign

DOG. MICRO. SER.

DEC 4 1974
MICROFILMED

ADVISE HOW MUCH MORE TAFE YOU NEED.

END OF MESSAGE

a

it.

He G/S Comment:*Station-to erase routine tapes Soviet Embassy, keep-
i 4 ing normal two-week lag.

a

o

]

{

|

} Af aporopriate.

201-289248

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
lconpuctes on 24 MAY 1978

D-200-6-44 oct MRT OA =F \9

ial ; MAY 1376
for FOIA Review on

y Direction of

si RICHARD HZUS, DDP COORDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET

0000239 }



13-00000

REPRO
Pra

Sao

» = a eis 5
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE . -
one: J, M, ‘WEITTEN: hy QT os
C/WH/3 Qinex (Q\SECRET n 4
1 No Inoex an 5
4 HAY 1964 DI FILEIN CS FLE NO. =H aa WCa
7 et Ret Ee
Yo : MEXICO CITY Wr - : er
"FROM: DIRECTOR che

. oe SIG CEN
chat Bp be d DEFERRED !
Ry RouTINe 7

Der, o/oci, pop, c/ci, ¢/ci/pl, : 5

c/ciARA, VR

CONSULATES ‘wexico CITY ARE OPEN TO PUBLIC; THER -
NORMAL WORKING HOURS. THEIR PROCEDUR, AND REGULATIONS,
meek _ we

PERMITS FOR

2. RSQUEST MEET CAELE SUMMARY OF ALL THAT CAN BE ASCERTAINED _
RECORDS OFFICER STAMP
Llow!

OS, BOYS Ee a a
Suortaet: pe SNS) PPLE “: END OF MESSAGE

rem te STEBEQ
Cofkr for FOIA Review on SUH 1876

If @astruction, cite

Sa ea coordinate copy 77.) cl [Rif

 20t-2e0248°

42 appropriate.
ks fan ib We

cS COPY

COORDINATING CFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET 4
D-200-BERCOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. ‘Cozy Now |
0000249

REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION

—.__ PROWIBITE

TOs DIRECTOR }
);
Ch
FROM + MEXICO CITY Il:
ACTION: = C/\d

WFO 1 © DCI, D/OCl, DOP, C/cl, Gfas

- 3 SECRET see tow dah 50000
Signed?
DIR CITE MEXI 9352 B17 7522
no as tst Cr [eed
sRYSET" GPFLOOR

——
Note: I2 destruction, olte
REF DIR 18327* Fopairen oe Pea

1. SOVIET ENB AND CONSULATE as “ior OPEN«FO PUBLIC. OFFICES
ARE IN COMPOUND ACCESSIBLE TO PUBLIC BY APPOINTHENT. SOVIET GUARDS
ARE ON OUTSIDE GATE AROUND CLOCK. NORMAL WORK HOURS SEP 1963
WERE 0900 TO 1848 GUT RECENTLY CHANGED C929 TO 14@@ MONDAY AND

: FRIDAYS. SIXTEEN SOVIET FAMILIES LIVE IN eee ane RING
BELL AT GATE AT ALL HOURS. RUSSIAN SPE. tae IN ANYTINE.
OTHERS USUALLY TURNED “AWAY BY cupReny 7 ins. SOVIETS ARE NOT
KNOWN TO ISSUE PERMITS £, 4 4) BA.

2. CUBAN EMB AN E IN SANE coNPoUKD BUT HAVE SEPARATE
ENTRANCES. cosa RECEIVES VISITORS FROM 19¢G TO 1420 HOURS .
MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY.

|ASSY WORKING HOURS ARE FROM S906 TO 1708

HOURS SAME DAYS BUT MOST EMBASSY VISITORS USUALLY ATTENDED BEFORE

1463 HOURS. THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING SEPT 65. 2Cl-2207L8"
3. CUBAN EMB PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS FOR ISSUING PERMITS

FOR TRAVEL TO AND THROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORMALLY VALID FOR THREE

Document Number

for FOIA Review di JUN 1878 SECRET

REPRODUCTION .BY OTHER-THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED ‘Copy No.

REPRODUCTION
PROWBITED

s wer UU 9-44

HS FROM DATE OF ISSUE} > PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY a

aE


13-00000

‘REPRODUCTION
- PROHIBITED

&

See Sanitized Filo
GUeRSFIED

ReqUrReD BEFORE ISSUAN NY VISA. APPLICANT COMPLETES VISA
APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, PiRWISSION OFTEN OBTAINED

IN EXCHANGE OF CABLES SETYEEN EMB8ASSY AND MINREX HABANA. IN MANY
CASES VISAS ISSUED ON SEPARATE SHEET PAPER IN EFFORT CONCEAL FACT
OF TRAVEL.

i
4. MEXICAN GOVT PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PBPRIWE

CITIZENS To AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED SINCE HNMA 20887 DATED 3: MAY .
~ 1963. PEPRINE CITIZENS “WITH PASSPORTS AND CUBAN Visas, ARE FREE TO ~

TRAVEL TO CUBA. PBPRINE CITIZENS CAN OBTAIN TOURIST CARDS FROM

MEXICAN CONSUL HAVANA FOR RETURN VIA MEXICO. °

SECRET
C/S Comfnent: #Warzen Commission requested KUBARK furtish hours when Cuban
and Soviet EF: ° = noxmal
working nor; ved in
its for 2 travel tc and through oak Wy
rat 3 oe
on pie :
7 Pier
i
« r
a - 2 '
> ~ t
( H
W000 242

REPRODUCTION
SPROMIOIED



13-00000

Inside Washington

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From Warr:

By ROBERT S, ALLEN cals who actively oppose on haz yet to, be used dismissal of such persons Liguid oz
Soviet policies. Sgainst Any high West. from public olfiee, at othe form. ‘The
es ‘Titled “Soviet Strategie erm official, hundreds of er times even’ having within’ seco
WASHINGTON, Oct.20. Executive Action,” the KGB agents covertly op- | them’ ‘eliminated’ physi - autopsy wou
cathe Central Intell. suppressed CLA’ docu- erating outside of Russia cally - iis. “Use.. "No
Zence Agency withheld ment went into the shock- have been supplied with "Such activities are poisons have
Vital. intelligence  infor- ing details of how agents. this. pocketsize, gun, ‘known to be undertaken ed which do
Imation from the Warren of KGB, the Soviet secret. awaiting only orders against other types of fect’ until s
Commission during its In- police, are trained to do from Moscow to use it. persons in the West, not-.-after being <
vestigation’ of the sssan Sway with Wester lead: ‘The Marder Weapons Sbly defectors from the thus allowins
Sination. of President ers, including officials in HIGHLIGHTS of the USSR. and from other -to be far fro
Kennedy. the U.S. and to make suppressed intelligence countries of the Soviet when his vic
Despite ‘the: commis- their deaths appear due estimate, which is locked bloc. ‘ SA know
sion’s written request for to natural causes. in a security area within “One recently reported source has,
all documents that might — One-of the KGB's new. the tightly-guarded CIA, assassination technique is pneumaticalls
Shed light on the ass ly devised assassination are as. follows: fo electrocute an individ poison ice‘:
Sination, CIA authorities wapons is “2° pnumati- — “It has been reported ual by. luring him to which leaves
failed to turn over a na- cally: operated poison ice. that the KGB endeavors tse a telephone, connect or other evic
tional Intelligence ‘esti ‘atomizer’: which leaves to removerthe-threat to ed toa high-voltage wire, cause o1 deat
mate warning that it is .no wound or other ed- Soviet interests posed by during a thunderstorm, ~  Congressio:
Kremlin policy to remove dence, of the cause of, certain members of Wesi- “Another involves the gators, who
from public office by as death “erm governments, some. use of a pistol which that the nop
sassindtion Western offi \ Whilethis deadly weap- times. arranging forthe - projects poison gas in
ee i

eae Etat ton
[hak tl cece Eagees trip to Mexico
tis wees Bast ora
$qute te dovermaent the Ciba enor Bee
sane Eee a ae
shocked to discover that in Dallas, Oma

REPRODUCTION 7
* PRORIBITED |



et eK

S CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

“By ROBERT S. ALLEN  cials who actively oppose on has yet {o be used dismissal of such persong {quid or compressed for security reasons re-
< And PAUL SCOTT “Soviet policies. against a gh Weat- from public office, at oth form. The gas js fatal port that CIA Director
. . Titled “Soviet Strategic ern officl dieds of er times even having’ . within seconds dnd an John McCone made no 5

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20, Executive Action,” the KGB agen! tly op- {hem ‘eliminated’: phys “ putopsy would not reveal mention of this explosive . }:
—The Central Intelli- suppressed CIA docu- erating ou! -

1 cally. . use. Non-traceable document in his secret
-gence Agency withheld ment wentintothe shock- have becn sypptid with “Such activities are ‘ poisons have been reporf- testimony before the
vital intelligence. infor-' ing details of how agents this pock @4; un,“ known to be undertaken ed which do not take ef- Warren Commission.
mation from the Warren of KGB, the Soviet secret awaiting “qrders against other ypes of fect until several hours While McCone furnish-
Conymission during its in- police, are trained to do from Moscow

it.. persons In the West, not-. after being administered, wee
vestigation of the assas- away with Western lead- ~The Murder 1 + ed the commission with

i ms ably defectors from the -thus allowing an assassin > ade 7

‘sinalion of President ers, including officials n- HIGHLIGHTS.of$he U.S.S.R. and from other to be far from the scene the CIA's secret surveil. filed:

Kennedy. : the U.S., and to make suppressed intg ce countries of the Soviet when his victim dies. lance -reports on Lee .
Despite the commis- their deaths appear due ‘estimate, which bloc. .

“A knowledgeable Harvey Oswald's cight :
sion's writlen request for: to natural causes. in a security ared-wittin “One recently reported source has described a days in Mexico City be thare .
all documents that might One of the KGB's new-. the: tightly-guard {o oe

assassination technique is pneumatically operated’ fore the assassination. in-
shed. light on the assas- ly. devised assassination are as follows;

to electrocute an individ- poison ice ‘atomizer ‘luding details of Os-

sinalion. CIA authorities wapons-is ,"a- pnumati- “It has been refigited’ ual luring him to which leaves no wound Wald’s contact with the oo
failed to turn over a na- cally. operated polson: ices;that_ the KGB endeavors , use a telephone, connect- or other evidence of the head KGB agent in the {
tional intelligence esti. ‘atomizer,’.. which ‘leayes:.;to reiié¥etha,.thre ed to a high-voltage wire, cause of death.” Soviet embassy there, { 3
mate warning that it is .no wound or: other “e viet: interests posed: by><guring a thunderstorm. Congressional investi. the CIA chief gave no
Kremlin policy to remove dence of the cauge rtain: members of Wi “Another involves the gators, who have asked hint of the Kremlin’s as- .
from public office by as- aa rm governments. s ome" of a pistol which that the name of their assination policy.
sassination Western offi- times, arranging for: epbojects a poison gas'in committee be withheld {CONTINUED ON &-B)

pO eae, . . . | .

<a

ve) + Documents: . shay by” adit
. OTHER | U.S. inten: McCormack ‘a: =), dohet

ence experts, very .du- | . . So) |
. Eious of Ttussla's o-ox. deat Jokneone 2 Pres

; ‘astence fine, stress ‘that!’ Whilo FBI officials SS

2 7 the | Warren ‘Commis. warned Speaker’ McCor...
g . flon’s pindings mi wt ! mack, a "hedicatedl antl: aS
a! Q 4 Comm =
€ this CIA estimate and | ‘the list of Western site , ce
‘other documents . gup-_.- cials feared by. the Krem. 5 , , =z
p . Pressed by the ‘State De- , mo CIA authority . =)

. pa tment had ‘been avail... ‘thas shown the No, 2 man . .
‘ able for study, da government the CLA

.g, Ebey point out that
oi: the State Department
. suppressed evidoncee ink
dng Oswald.'with ono of
Ale employes, awh agel. § ‘the 3
cording to security. filés, - oniy x
“presouled strony pro. treed ny from ne t

report listing ithese
eret ‘Sovitt ‘assassinati
methods, 0%. -.

NOMIMGOMEEY

fr 9543 “ ay _ —



1 3-00900,

let iSPAey rr
Di Fr SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WH Division

_GLee Harvey OSWALD ;
TEST REQUESTED +

‘ Action Required: Please advise re negatives

} In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

i Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would
like to determine whether the Station still has on hand

i the negatives from which the prints available at Headquarters

\ were made of the unidentified "nystery man" coming out of
both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies. If they are still

} on file, it is requested that they remain so, and that they

| be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than

destroyed if the latter action is ever contemplated.

Ss Bee Elsie I. SCALETTI

N

© _Hend goaokes vest foe the
Hegatives of = Uadenhted “myskey Wan”

|
: j . \eraung beth Waa Ssovet an d Coban :
: r EmbnesioS 5 (
7 wt SAME AS *
A i Distribution: : 161 ~ 464 . S
aH 2 - COS, Mexico City .

| a8I247

i . QR WAT 1967

[Gas rere To TAHA Oa Tapa Saba = = . ne We uny 1087

. a

‘ORIGINATING

OFFICE 5 ‘oFFIGE iF Test
WH/L Bust S-Videla sas

COOROMATING
pemerenee [are]

RI
Chrono
Oswald (soft file;

‘oerice S¥aoL

Nara

ie nn laa ner preme esa



13-00000

" REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

‘cLASsiFicaTION PROCESSING ACTION t

SECRET

JuaRneD FOR wOELING.

Jno moexwna REQUIRED
rare Jom quatirien vest
Aa su0Ge moexwe

Chief, WH Division lA

wicnorn
at >
Lee Harvey OSWALD. Bde
TemioN REQUIRED -
ay
In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence, Headquarters would
like to determine whether the Station still has on hand

the negatives from which the prints available at Headquarters
were made of the unidentified "mystery man" coming out of
both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies. If they are still

on file, it is requested that they remain so, and that they
be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than

destroyed if the latter action is ever contemplated.

i
f
tL
i Action Required: Please advise re negatives
!
{
i

b Atgrtauts OO 7 H
Peet peo Chuono Cd 148)

fr 1041965. gag,

. Distribution:
2- COS, Mexico City

a
fe

as RET STEN TGC ER

IMIW-15488

t CSFB,
: SECRE We

REPRODUCTION =
-RAOHOITED

ATE
18 May 1967 ‘

OS FILE MMER
201=289248 VEC 73

0000246



13-00000

* REPAOOUCTIEN
PROBIEITED.

CO uncassine =O. MAL CO conr(” yriat CO secrer
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ~

ES)

aa * MEX/ 70384

ACTION COPY

Date

_——_| &
[ saceweo | rowanoeo

OFFICERS | COMMENTS (Nember eoch commer whom
fo whom, Drow @ Tine

ross Colom shar wack commece)
DUP

OF

15. 0000247

feat 610 tomers" ] secret [1] CONFIDENTIAL [J [ATERNAL ] UNCLASSIFIED

| sony
j PRORATED

1


13-00000

( te rin AA ef FOI 2 Moversber 1963

° limo passed
f. C » fom bossreS

with rhe en pare Ye costae 6
info on Kos7tko

+e hove photographic coverage during daylight hours on the
YSGR, Cusan, Czechoslovak and Fullah Embaasics. Theale consulates
axe located in the embnesies ui therefore the coverage of the
. embassics would includs coverage of the cousulnics. :
The photographic coversge ci tae mentioned Lastallations is of

a continuous nature during daylight hours, however, weather

conditions and other factor s affecting aay photographic efforts re-

guice the coverage not ov considered as total or complete. Sur

ntlication

photographs unaiul for id

efforts theceinre do not prod:

beyond reasonable doubt that he bs ices of the KGL,

ree)
Contributing to this NY is Resociaics, bis movemects,

his Mextcan and other Contacts and hia cover position, as well ao
hilo iavolverment in the SIGUBEORMEREY operation.

KOSTIAOV's involvement in GSMS nse is onz only reason

to believe that ke is connected with the 13th Departmomt, KOSTISOV
was in clasdestine coxtact with TOMI (os definitely con-

ftemed by SOPRARTEE photo identification) aed arrang

RRR contact in the U.S, with a KGB colleague af KOST:

Dociment Number 13.2." 6 &2\

for FOLA Kuview on APR 1976 [REC RECORD COPY.” al

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

conaucren orf 4 WAY i976;

|
|
|

0000248

27 Nev!
_ Soi-asek

E__IMPDET Ct PY_OL2 20?

-REPRODUCTIOR!
pls BFTED B® SECRET.



13-00000

SCTION COPY.

: = = DAE ;
Bas :
1 14
A PEAYE
LAST

1 BR G10 Rae" C] secret ~E] conripentian [INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED

. 6200249

REPRODUCTION
PROWISITED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROIIBITED

Taiviacs | ore. | nuMbEn

Cubon_Chronos su-u~.~,~, -
— Bled Earvey Oswald

DEFERRED . PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
= rouvine | | hakepore

INITIALS, |

CITE MEXT__

perricy

DIR INFO.
RUBAT GPELOOR
REF: DIR 18627
1, SOVIET HU AND COUSULATE ARE HOT OPEE 70 PUBLIC, OFFICES ARS IN Cort
POURD ACCESSIBLE 0 PUELIC BY APPOIWEMENT, SOVIET GUARDS ARE OS OUTSIDE GATE
AROUND CLOCK, MORMAL WORK HOURS SEP 1965 WERE 0900 TO 1800 BUN RECHITEY CHANGED

p00 TO 1k00 MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY, SOV CONSULATE FREQUENTLY CHANCE. NOW OPEW
1200 TO 3300 MONDAYS AND FRIDAYS, SIXTEEN SOVIED FAMILIES LIVE If COMPOUND,
‘VISITORS RING BELL AT GATS AT ALL XIRES HOURS. RUSSIAN SPEAKERS CAN GET Iv
AUYTIME, OTHERS USUALLY TURNED AWAY BY GUARD AFTER HOURS. es

: PERMITS FOR TRAVEL CUBA, A

2 ct ST hm i?

‘KROWM TO. ISSUE

on eae ‘THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING
sure 65,

3. CUBAH EMS PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS POR ISSUING PERMITS FOR TRAVEL TO
AND THROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORMALLY VALID FOR THREE MONTHS FROM DATE OF ISSUE.
PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY REQUIRED BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA,
APPLICANT COMPLETES VISA APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, PERMISSION OFTEN OBTAINED

COORDINATING OFFICERS

. SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER, CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING:

6200250

REPRODUETION
PROEIEMTED


13-00000

| REPRODUCTION
raauereD

od
DEFERRED" | PRIORITY ANITIALS oTs. NUMBER
/ OPERATIONAL | wiriaca
ROUTINE | IMMEDIATE
INFO, a cre woo BES?
ROGER

TH EXCHANGE OF CABLES BRIVEEH RDASSY ARD HINREX HABAHA, IW MANY CASES VISAS
\ ISSUED Oi! SEPARATE SHEET PAPER IN EFFORT CONCEAL PACT OF TRAVEL,

4, MEXICAN GOVE PROCEDURES AMD REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PRPRIME CITIZEES TO
AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHAINED SINCE HMMA 20887 DATED 3 MAY 1965. PEPEIME CITEZENS
‘WITH PASSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS ARE FREE TO TRAVEL TO CUBA, PSPRIME CITIZENS
‘CAN OBTAIN TOURIST CARDS FROM MEXICAN CONSUL HAVANA FOR RETURY VIA MEXICO,

COORDINATING OFFICERS

REEIGGS SECRET WCCURTIS:
AENTICATING OFFICER CLASSIFICATION RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

GOUG251 i

REPRODUCTION
PROGBITED



13-00000

soy «REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

+ Personality (201) File Request, dated 9 Decenber 1960
[FOIA No. 1-1B]

TABLE OF CONTENTS

w

. Three index cai iC aa Bi ie rig
Lee Harvey aE sili
tion. TrOrA | No. 2- 524}

Ln ORR «=

. batppteteet for Chief, CI/R&A, dated 20 February 1964;
Subjec Documents Available in OSWALD's 201 File.
[FOIA No. 563-810]

i | ‘ords System on
(ik Wipdy's assassina-

pw

REPRODUCTION
PROGGITED

EZ)

EPRODUCTION
Prowiemep


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

_ co Soe
EVES LY

20 February 1964 1

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&A.

SUBJECT: Documenta Available in OSWALD's 201 File

1, A machine-jisting’of documents officially recorded as being
in OSWALD's 201 file wa's requested and is attached, The actual
machine work of thig'type was begun in 1963, but a few items of previous |
dates were als ‘eborded.

2. Ar comparison of the documents physically available in the
201 file and | those recorded as being in the 201 file has shown that 37
documents which should be in the 201 file are not available init. This \
total is made up oft .

2 dispatches : ‘
7 memoranda from the FBI :
1 CSCI >

2 State Department documents a
25 cables.

3, Machine inquiries for the location of these:documents have
not been made,-

|
|

i

cee i?
reall oWocument Number 2 => BIO” i
7 for FOIA Review on JUN 1976

I

1

i LEW
; M~ aul <
ih

3 SECRET
“EYES GHLY |

‘REPRODUCTION
PROGIIMED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED
? a .e
om iN CLASSIFIED MESSAGE (
gents" oee [ szenes |
10 Oct 1963 £7 FILE IN cs FILE’NO. A
10: SEE BELOW OS goay
HOM: SASSER CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
cones WH 8 ;
+ Cl, Ci/OPS, C!/SIy-FI, SR 7, RF, VR
; i :
— fa pare . emp 7 4 8 7 8
BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY v12\
SUBJECT: LEE HENRY OSWALD a
1. ON 1 OCTOBER 1963 A RELIABLE AND SENSITIVE SOURCE
IN MEXICO REPORTED THAT AN AMERICAN MALE, WHO IDENTIFIED
HIMSELF AS|LER OSWALD, CONTACTED THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN 5
MEXICO CITY INQUIRING WHETHER THE EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED 3
ANY NEWS CONCERNING A TELEGRAM WHICH HAD BEEN SENT TO g
a“ |ASHINGTON. THE AMERICAN, WAS DESCRIBED AS APPROXIMATELY 2
, arent WITH AN: ATELETIC BUILD, ABOUT SIX FEET TALL, i

HIS RUSSIAN-BORN_WIFE, MARINA NIKOLAEVNA:PUSAKOVA, AND THEIR

A Document Numbsoe=a——" z ‘de EEE, 72 qs |
z we! lhor FOIA Review on APR 1976 conf AREY ornatbi NT EF |
‘ae ye Oreiee Pill moe swhkinetiind i

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE JS§UING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
oa

GOOLTES ©

REPRODUCTION eS
PRORIBITED

2 ef 5.



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

. S CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 1262
1 ons: ROUTING
Sounr: 1D INDEX [ SECRET 7 7

Lee BNO INDEX =
DATE + TI FILE IN CS FILE NO: ; +
To: :

. TBoV—

| ROM: DIRECTOR Tascigscl| F

Sanitized File

DEFERRED.

Se
CONumber
ROUTINE

Lone £2 Dales

PAGE TWO

+ CITE OR,

3. THE INFORMATION IN PARAGRAPH ONE IS BEING DISSEMEYETED

ii
TO YOUR REPRESENTATIVES IN MEXICO CITY. ANY FURTHER meron Gl 2
ke 5
‘ON

Wai
RECEIVED ON THIS SUBJECT WILL BE FURNISHED YOU. THIS nironiaris

IS BEING HADE AVAILABLE 2, aE BRUGRATION AND NATURALIZATION
SERVICE. 4

INFO BASED ON MEXI 6453 (IN 36017) 201-289248

¢ @I/siG/Egerter (in draft.
Tr. Rowen hota t @ pi ) KU. Gthare,
3. ROMAN SR/CI/Rol1 (in dratt) LN. GALLARY
A Ci1/UIAISON COORDINATING OFFICERS .
RELEASING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING
" , SECRET { orarricee
S ep, uctio y OTHER THAN THE: ISSUING OFFIC ) BROHIB, 2. _ Cepy, No.
~ a =o eS ae cn :

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED



i

+p ,MBRLOF THE NEW ORLEANS CHAPTER OF THE
peu riAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE WITH
S_AT BROADWAY, NEW YORK
VCITY, SEE Doc Re BSR TSOYA OF CUBAN
|" PROPAGANDA,
Ee ty
a 2
OQ 8
> 8
es ES
2 2
gs §
2 &
gs an
a = —
k
3 i OSWALD, LEE HARVEY ioe
a tia SEX M DOB 18 OCT 39 O8F -hok78
oj INEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA 25 MAY 60
CIT USSR 7
| & MOSCOW, USSR erate
EX-U.S. MARINE, WHO UPON"HIS DESCHARGE FROM
| MARINE CORPS, , SEPT. 39 TRAVELED TO USSR TO
| RENOUNCE HIS U.S. CITIZENSHIP. .
+ |
—- py
REPRODUCTION
P
D)

’

ornbe, cords Sound inthe Doe de

Septem ony Fe Haareiy Cac a hue ne

zot-2852t60\

ADR OPERATOR, U.S. MARINE CORPS, AS OF 60.

| “OSWALD, LEE HENRY

t°SEx M DOB 18 OCT 39
“NEW ORLEANS, LA., USA
CIT 2
REF
ha
Serecteo 70 uséa iN QcT 59.

EPR

cS

ODUCTION
PROHIBITED

Kennedy's
Cera dele, .

YANZ-35612

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

DUCTED Of APR O76

74 USA, NEW ORLEANS, 4709 MAGAZINE

TQ0~300-01
|' sel M 008 18 oct Opa 3859 [
[-USR, “New ORLEANS 33 OCT 63
occ 9 :



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROBED.

‘

“SECRET

(hon Fitted In) an i
$$ re
eo aa) PERSONALITY (20!) FILE REQUEST.

TO os _ Towe?

BEADQUARTERS, RI

4

Hein brs IGE OG _|
ON Gi SiG = A a ‘408-7 bz uz) pre [eee [ere i

INSTRUCTIONS: Form
SECTION It at

SECTION II! Cryptonya o:
SECTION 1112 To be compl,

be

typed or printed in black Letters,

ages Af applicabie) must bo Listed. If the iden.
eased. Weite UNRNOW for itena you are unel

SECTION 1

Sensitive

lac i | sounce vocumEnT,

NON: SENSITIVE. ;

wane Graney

aD

WE

£42 is i

[Firety Zitiddie) GTitiey x]
bre y ca ca
WARE VARIANT : |

(Firat) (wi ddl (Filey 4

Tine at
‘CLASSIFICATION REVIEW { [ i
|
= NB: HAvey : |
Bap fe
a fp 1
Puovo a.” Bint DATE s.P COUNTRY OF BIRTH. 6-P CITY OR TOMN OF BIRTH T-P OTHER 1DENTIFICATION
+ [7  e1g * toleay aw Fi

JoccuPATion/osi tion

‘SECTION IT

Cave TONY

PSEUDONYE

‘SECTION Tit

L aaa) ‘ CRESLOENCE

REO

eS ai We ite ‘COUNTRY INTEREST “T= CountRy INTEREST VBA

cou Fa: ae

PERUANENT CHARGE

Dafoe te {ts USSR us October 959,

Document Number

for FOIA Review on APR

1975

= +E as Gi ai q STATURE

rome 83a

SECRET --.

(30)

cocures

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED



13-00000

SECRET REPRODUCTION
me wee ROMIBITED

1. Commission Document 692 (portion dated 31 PROM
1964) [Copy of FOIA No. 509-803

2. Letter seid AYEHD A ated 25 October
RRS

3. Department i eg LASSIFIED), dated
31 October 19 paca if fe
4. Memorandum for J. Lee ted 6 March 1964;

‘ Subject: Information in CIA's Possession Regarding
Lee Harvey OSWALD Prior to November 22, 1963.

5. Note from Richard HELMS to J. Lee RANKIN, dated
6 March 1964.

6. Memoraridum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 6 March 1964;
Subject: Information in CIA's Possession Regarding

Lee Harvey OSWALD Prior to November 22, 1963.
[FOIA No. 590-252]

REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROAIBITED


13-00000

| REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

} 1224

XAAZ~ 22595"
G Mae 64

MEMORANDUM FaOR:.

ry
SUBJECT: -" ., > _ Information in CIA's Possession

y Regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD
Prior to November 22, 1963 ¢2 Trauznithecl
t. Werren  Commirsien,

i
|
SMe, J. Lee Rankin |
|
|
|
\
|
i

°°, This refera to your letter of February 12, 1964
addressed to the Director of Central Intelligence which has
been passed to me for reply,

2, Paragraph three of your letter requested the Agency
to sugply the Commission with a report on information in the 4
Agency's possession regarding Lee Harvey CSWALD prior to \
November 22, 1963, The request was predicated upon the
footnote on page two of CIA's report to the Commission dated :
31 January 1964, entitled: “Information Developed by CIA on
the Activity af Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 Sep-
tember = 3 Cctober 1963",

3, There is attached an exact reproduction of the
Agency's official dossier on Lee Harvey OSWALD beginning i
with the opening sheet dated 9 December 1969, The entire
dossier carries the security classification of Secret and H
consists of thirty documents arranged in chronological order, : \
On the basis of clearances from the Federal Bureau of !
Investigation, the Department of State, the Department of \
Navy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who .
were queried by us after the receipt of your letter, we are H
able to make available exact copies of all materials in the
file up to early Cctober 1963, These include:

: TT, ees RGi-AIIZTET |
‘ eae . GM ee |

OU7ED

‘REPRODUCTION Oe ae
-PROBIBMTED ;



13-00000

. REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

a. Seven documents received from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation,

b, Ten documents received from the Department
of State,

¢,. Two documents received from the Department
of Navys, ¢ !

0.3 One document {a name check request) from the
“ Iamigration and Naturalization Service,

2. Four newspaper clippings,
£, Five internal CIA notes,

g CIA report dated 31 January 1964 to the Commission
which covers all substantive developments affecting CIA
in the matter of Lee Harvey OSWALD from 9 Octover to
22 November 1963, The report indicated the disseminations
of information developed by GIA that were made to other
Federal agencies during that period, This item, as was
pointed out at the time, is particularly sensitive and bears
appropriate sensitivity indicators. H

4, You will note that almost all of the documents carry
markings required for CIA's internal records processing, A
few of the papers contained the names of cur‘ employees or
identifications of specific organizational components, We have
taken the liberty of blocking out these items as they do not bear
on the substance of the Commissionfa request.

Richard Helme i
Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment |

Original & 2 » Addressee 1 + C/CI/SIG
1-DDP Subject > C/CI/R&A
1=DDP Chrono; pop} 1 ~ C/WH/3

1.C/CI T » 2014289248
CL:RGRoccasde/7468/4 isacen 1964 (Inventory of documents contained i
in file attached for all but sétreaaee) 201-239 245,

60007980

— REPRODUCTION | _
PRONIBTED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROGIBITED

Inventory of Documents Contained in OSWALD Dossier Forwarded

Be
- #2,

~~ v3,

4,
4

+1 be

© yk.

+ Al,
+ A,
~ Vi3,

«14.
«15.
- aA
- 18,

- PROGIBM

REPRODUCTION

to the Commission

State Telegram No, 1304) October 31, 1959 (Confidential) ‘
Newspaper Article from the Washington Post, November 1, 1959

CI/LSN Internal Note dated 2 November 1959 (oral FBI name
check request) and NR reply dated 4 November 1959 (Confidential

Foreign Sexvice Despatch 234, November 2,, 1959 (Confidential) /
State eiegram 1358, November 9, 1959 (Confidential) +

Stata Telegram 1448, November 9, 1959 (Confidential) a
Newspaper Clipping from Washington Post, November 16, 1959
Newepaper Clipping from Evening Star, November 2

DBF 49478, 25 May 1960 (Confidential)

(ees
Internal GIA Biographie Profile dated circa’ May 1960 (Confidential)

Letter from the Department of State (Cumming) to DDP (Biseell)
, (dated October 25, 1960 (DD/P 0-5679 - Secret)

hacdid Untine.
DDP Response to tise 21 November 1960 (DD/P 0.6003 ~
Secret)

Internal CIA Request for Opening of 201 file, v1 Decomber 1960
(Secret)

State Memorandum of Conversation dated January 26, 1961 (0U0) /
State Instruction A-273, April 13;, 1961 (OUO) /
Foreign Service Despatch 806, May26, 1961 (OUO)
Foreign Service Despatch 29). aay 11,1961 (OUO) %
DFB 32181, July 13, 1961 (Couifidential) .
ae

Aaz-gaste CSCO
ieee oat Qos 2399243

ame



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROIBITED

XARZ- 22575
& Mae Ce

*/\9, Internal CIA Memo for the Record, 29 September 1961 (Secret)
+ 720, Foreign Service Despatch 317, Cctober 12, 1961 (OUD)
« fl, I&NS Name Check Request, December 5, 1961

S22, Navy Message 20197/RB/3, 3 March 1962 (Confidential)
+ S23, DNA. 1624, 26 April 1962 .
“ 7 2he. Newspaper Clipping from Washington Post, June 9, 1962,

225, DBA 20883, September 7, 1962 (Confidential)

26, DBA 51407, 10 September 1963
» 727, DBA 52355, 24 September 1963
DBA 55715 (aumber unclear), November 7, 1963

DBA 55777, November 8, 1963

CIA Summary Report on Activities of OSWALD. in Mexico City,
. dated 31 January 1964

is COPY Dae vRee |

Pray

| |
cooure2. |. .

' REPRODUCTION
PRORSITED,



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

“WEMORANDUM FOR: Mrs J.

Tee Rankin

Tae, 101 REPORTS Vo



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
a e-em ITED

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

6- MM

64

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr.mJ. Lee Rankin

Regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD
‘Prior to November 22, 1963 “

SUBJECT: Information in CIA's Possession =

aoa

1, -This:tefers to your letter of February 12, 1964
addressed to the Director of Central Intelligence which has =
been: Bassed to me for reply, S
pad

Paragraph three of your letter requested the Agency

£0 supply the Commission with a report on information in the
iBgency!s possession regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD prior to
November 22, 1963, The request was predicated upon the
footnote on page two of CIA!s report to the Commission dated
31 January 1964, entitled: ‘Information Developed by CIA on
the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 Sep-
tember ~ 3 October 1963",

3. There is attached an exact reproduction of the
Agency's official dossier on Lee Harvey OSWALD beginning 5
with the opening sheet dated 9 December 1960. The entire het.
dossier carries the security classification of Secret and i
consists of thirty documents arranged in chronological order,
On the basis of clearances from the FederalBureau of
Investigation, the Department of State, the Department of
Navy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who
were queried by us after the receipt of your letter, we are
able to make available exact copiesof all materials in the
file up to early October 1963, Tiese- include:

CLASSIFICATION, pee
By autl

afte, PP a 4

Name an! the chases

REPRODUCTION fy tit
PROMOTED



Qo bth

=~ REPRODUCTION —
pura Seren documents received from she Fea ARATE ED) a

ey b. Ten documents received from the Department
of State,

13-@0000- ;_:
3-00

¢, Two documents received from the Department
of Navys

a, One document (a name check request) from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

.»  e@, Four newspaper.clippings,

ip £ Five internal’ CIA notes,

ge CIA report dated 31 January 1964 to the Commission
which covers all substantive developments affecting CIA
in the matter of Lee Harvey OSWALD from 9 October to
22 Noveinber 1963, The report indicated the disseminations
of:information developed by CIA that were made to other
Federal agencies during that period. This item, as was
7 pointed out at the time, is particularly sens:
‘-. ‘appropriate sensitivity indicators,

FE

4, You will note that almost all of the documents carry ye
markings required for CIA's internal records processing, A ‘aca
few of the papers contained the names of our employees or ‘
identifications of specific organizational components, We have
taken the liberty of blocking out these items as they do not bear
on the substance of the Commission's request.

Richard Helms
Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment
‘\ANCELED

CLASSIFICATION C 2
By authorily oft CLA Ltr. (2p+f7

te of nig the chases

sr el We em

‘RePRODUCTION =,

“PROGBITED



nc awecmmn near

3-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

a of State oe

‘

Departine.

[Sa
Control: 20261
Rec'd: OCTOBER 31, 1959
FROM: MOSCOW 1:59 AM.

TO; Secretary of State
NO: !304, OCTOBER 31, 1 P.M.

FOR PO

SD, UNMARRIED AGE 20 PP 1733242 ISSUED

1§59 APPEARED AT EMB TODAY TO RENOUNCE AMERICAN
NSHIP, STATED APPLIED IN MOSCOW FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP
SLOWING ENTRY USSR FROM HELSINKI OCT 15. MOTHER'S

ADDRESS AND HIS LAST ADDRESS US 4936 COLLINWOOD ST ey

FORT WORTH TEXAS. SAYS ACTION CONTEMPLATED LAST TWO

YEARS. MAIN REASON "1 AM MARXIST". ATTITUDE ARROGANT

» RECENTLY DISCHARGED MARINE CORPS. SAYS HAS
SOMISTS_ANS. INFORMA
ERATO

IN ViEW PET

NL} CASE WE PROPOSE DELAY EXECUTING RENUNCIATION
UNTIL, SOV ACTION KNOWN OR DEPT ADVISES. DESPATCH
FOLLCWS. PRESS INFORMED.

FREERS

UNLESS “UNCLASSIFIED”
Conese REPRODUCTION FROM THIS
= COPY 1S PROHIBITED.

ceGbrcs

8 ot 54
a



REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

a

be OL ty 7 SPE

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE DIRECTOR OF INTELWIGENCE AND RESEARCH
. WASHINGTON

SECRET ; . OCT 25 ig60

Dear Dickt

Our efforts to mswer recent informal inquiries, including some.” | .*).
from the White House Staff, have revealed that, though CIA and the y a9
: FEE have detailed records concerning Americans who have been recruited
as intelligence agents by Bloc countries, there does not appear to be
\ a complete listing of those Americans now living in Bloc countries
who. might be called "defectors". Using the definitions of DCID l/2,
these persons might be described as those who have either been,
capable of providing useful intelligencé to the Bloc or those whose
desire to resettle in Bloc countries has been significantly exploited
for communist propaganda purposes. Tais would mean that no attention
need be paid to Americans whose resettlement within the Bloc had no
counter-intelligence implications or had attracted no particular *
attention; for instance, this definition would not cover individual ;
US citizens of East European or Chinese origin who retumed to the
"homeland" because they had never been completely assimilated into
‘the American society. i

‘Thera is attached a list of such persons, covering the lest 18
months, and it would be appreciated if the Agency could verify and
possibly expand this list for the use of interested Buremus-of,the 4
Department. ng 5 we

_Sincerely yours, Cues

Hugh S. Cuming, Jres/

2 “bttachment:
list of American "Defectors" eo TUR,
from May 1959 ~ October 1960. : fava

“f. Me. Richard M. Bissell., Jr.
: ” “Deputy Director, Plans,
: Central Intelligence Agency.

SECRET

PRODUCTION :
PROSIBITED Le



13-00000

_)
I el Te)
: 8.)
=)
2.)

_ Forces in June 1999 and stated that he wished to remain in

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

ne efi ie , a

LIST_OF_ANERICAN "DEFECTORS® = Bp os,

Morris and Mollie BLOCK, living in the USSR, and Possibly.”
Communist China, since the fall of 1959.

David DuBOIS (aka DUPEBOY), living in Peiping since May G10 q
1960, but may have returned to the U.S. m8 5 od

Sct. Joseph DUTKANICZ, U.S. Army, defected to East German
Forces about the spring of 1960.

Sgt. Emie F, FLETCHER, U.S. Amy, defected to East German |,

East Germany at a confrontation held on August 5, 1959
(CINCUSAREUR telegram SX 5307 of 0617h42 August).

Sgt. (fnu) JONES, U.S. Air Force, defected in mid May 1960
to East German Forces (Air Intelligence Information Report
number 1130223 of August 9, 1960.) .

William KARTIN, NSA employee.
‘Bernon MITCHELL, NSA employee.
Lee Harvey OSWALD, tourist.

Libero RICCIARDELLE, tourist.
Army, defected to East German. <>

Pvt. Vicdimir SLOBODA, U.
Forces in the spring of 1

Robert Edward WEBSTER, tourist, (see New York Tines article ' :
of October 20, 1959). i

Bruce Frederick DAVIS, U.S. Army, defected to East German’
Forces, August 19, 1960 (Babassy Moscow telegram 1032 of ;
Gctober 22, 1960). 3

EPRODUCTION
PRORATED

%


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
le | PRORIEITED

31 January 194

pac
Information Develo!
Lee Harvey tn
28 September - 3 October 1963 ae
4
I, OSWALD!s Activity in Mexico City
= Om9 October the CIA Station in Mexico City received : =
rnd ° . ve
the'feflowing information from a zeliable and proven source: e eed

Aa American azmed Lee OSWALD had contacted
the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City on Tuesday, 1 Octobex
2963, He bad cpoken in halting Russian ta the Soviet
Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV, to whom
he said he had visited the Embassy two days earlier,
Saturday, 28 September, Ho asked whether there had
been a reply to 2 telegram that the Consul with whom he

. had spoken, but whose name he could not recall, had
promised to send to Washington, OBYEDKOV had

attempted te establish the wentity of the Conaul with

Whom OSWALD had tated: if «i had beona dari: prom, Ee
then it had probably boon HOST: agi OBYEDKOV, 7 bee

BEC: awLy ¥ nae G |
Zisiw® f SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
FESNHDE INAIAL ER,

| RERODUCTIOR' =“.
~ PROMISED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

after a check with Sovict Consular persoanel, assured

OSWALD the telegram had been sent to Washington but Be
ead

no answer had been received,”
Tho information was forwazded by cable to GIA Headquarters
the came day it was received.

2, A file chock in Washington which is routine ia these

RA

matters vovealed the possibility of an identity between the Lee

OSWALE’ who baa spoken with OBYEDKOV, and presumably

with KOSTIKOV, and the defector returnee, Lee Harvey OSWALD.*

3, On 10 October 1963 CIA Headquarters disseminated by ee

—

o

+ cable the report. in substantially the form and in the detail
indicated above, in paragraph 1, to the Federal agencies whose
jurisdictional interests had been established by a review of

OSWALD's file: the Federal Burcau of Investigation, the Depart-

% The GIA file on Lea Harvey OSWALD was opened on 9 Decomber
1960 to accommodate biographic information developed by CIA in
response to an inquiry from the Department of State ona list of
American defectors in Soviet Bloc countries. OSWALD's was
among the names in'the list, Tho Department'of State inquiry
was dated 25 October 1960, An intexim reply was given by CLA
oa 3 November 1960; a final reply,-oa.2b November 1950, Until
azly October 1963 the contenta«cf fis °OSWALD file held by CIA
consisted entirely of press matcsig% and disseminctions
_received from the Department of State, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, and the Navy Department,



13-00000,

REPRODUCTION
dill

acnt of State, the Navy Departmont, and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, A commont was included in the report
noting the likelihood that the oubjéct, Bee OSWALD, was

, probably identical with the former Marine who bad defected to

the Soviet Union in 1959... (The report dissomiuated by CIA in

Washingtoa-on 10,Cétober also included a physical description
i

of indir id4a1 who was belicved to have been the OSWALD who . a

w& ebntacted the Soviets in Mexico City, It was subsequentiy
established by investigation that the description did not pertain
to OSWALD,)

4. Onthe same day, 10 Cctobor 1963, CIA Headquarters

sent a longthy cable summary to the Mexico City Station of the f

background inforraation held in tho Headquarters! file on

OSWALD, An instruction was incluied for the Mexico City:
Station to pass the. substance of its 9 Cetober report to the local

representatives of the came Federal departments aad agencies
that had been given the information in Wadhington, This

instruction was immediately carried’ ute Ta this manner the

information on OSWALD!a outlet with the | Soviets on 1 Cctcber D

was passed in Mexico City to the Embassy, the FBI representative,
the Naval Attache, and to the office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, There were no requests from recizenta of

the report for further information or for follow-up investigation,



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
; PROHIBITED

mn of President Kenney and the

arrest of Lec Harvey OSWALD, . intensive review of all Sy

available sources was vadertiken la Mexico City to determine —
” ine puspove of OSWALD's visit, It wes leamed that OSWALD

had also vicited’tho. Cubsn Consulate ia Mexico City and bad

talked thefe:wlth'a clerk, a Mexicca national, named Slivis ; ig

DURAN... After the assaacination and the publicity about Leo

Sirk, Slivis DURAN had told a number of relatives and

frlonde that she had talked to OSWALD about a Cuban visa,

Silvia DURAN and hez husband, Hozesio DURAN Navaszo, were : a

dotained and questioned by the Mexican police from 22 to 25
November 1963.

6. After giving some of the details of her own personal
background - she La an admitted Leftist sympathizer and had |

foxmorly worked for the Mexican-Cuban Institute of Cultural

s

Relations ~ Silvia DURAN said that whon she first heard:
death of President Kennedy she had been deprossed.and thought
the assassin must have been a maniac. Whem dhe ledrned that

he was associated with the "Falr Play. or Cuba Cormmlttec"

she did not belleve it.

7. She talked about the Sigeto hor husband and when che

heard the aame of Lee CSWALD mentioned, she recognized it as



13-00000 -

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

the man who had corne to the Constlate about two months before

to gota viva to transit Cuba ont Way to the USSR. She

a
io was married to a Russian and that

realized that he had a:
he had belonged tothe "Fair Play for Cuba" group, She checked

her file oashim in the Consular avchives and from the desciftive

gt!" shie was oure {t was the same man. He was short, blon¢, &

poorly dressed and his face got red when he talked. He waa :

donied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have a Soviet

visa, cind he was told to get tho Soviet viea first, but it was noted =

that this would take about four snonths. She had asked the Cuban ; na

Gonsul himself, ‘Euscbio AZGUE, to talk to OSWALD and they oe

had an argument when AZCUE urged OSWALD to leave Moxtco

instead of waiting there. The Coneul had phoned the Soviet Con+

sulate and talked to the person handling OSWALD's case, who

had said it would take about four months to hear from Moscow

about the Sovict visa, ‘The eame afternoon, OSWALD-bad came

bails again and she had told him the same thing. ‘She'gave

OSWALD a olip of paper with her name and telephone pueberies

It in case he ever got his Sovletvisa. WH dld not call back, che sald.
8, Silvia DURAN's husks) Horacio DURAN Navazro, gave

essentially the same story, as he had previously heard it from

his wife after the assassination. He had never had any personal

contact with OSWALD.



| ‘REPRODUCTION
PROWIITED

i ——

9. Silvia DURAN was reinterrogated by the Mexican police

¢

from 27 to 29 Noveraber but she did not change or add materially

to her story about OSWALD, wet.

10, It ie known that the Cuban Ambassador in Mexico,
Joaquin HERNANDEZ-Armas, reported oa the detainmont and
interrogation of Stlvia DURAN by the Mexican authoritios, Tho a ed
Cubap Government sent the Mexican Government a stiff note of Ea
protape? which the Mexicans zejected,

11... We are reliably informed that on a Qauenbew the

day after DURAN!2 release, Cubza President DORTICGS queried

HERNANDEZ about his report, HERNANDEZ confirmed that
there had been an altercation between OSWALD and Consul
AZCUZ, DORTICOS made a persictent but unsuccessful effort
to determine from HERNANDEZ whether the Mexican authorities
had questioned Mrs, DURAN about money, or thought that the

Cubans had paid OSWALD mozey,

12, The CIA follow-up investigation produced the following

confirmed results which have a bearing om Mra, DURAN's account:

a. 27.Sertember. ing id~aftezuoon, Silvia DURAN
is?
informed the Soviet Exbass} that a male American citizen

had requested a visa to transit Cuba on his way to the

mE
sc!

Seger



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PRORATED

talked with at the Sovict Consitlatds Also, sho indicated

that the Cuban Consulate could grant him the visa and

arrange immigration details if the concession of a Soviet

dani da, bitline

visa were assured,

Re

that the American had becn to the USSR installation, He
had shown them a ictter from the Soviet Consulate in

Washington indicating that he had been long awaiting a

visa for himself and his wife to goto the USSR, No

answer had come from Washington; however, the waiting
period was sometimes four or five oat The American a a
also had 2 lotter attocting that he was'a member of a fos .
Cuban organization but be had claimed that the-Gbans
would not give him a visa unless ho had aleady received

a Russian visa, 5
Although the American was still at the Cuban
Consulate, Silvia DURAN repeated that she dould not give

cer
him a transit visa unlect 3 Soviet viaa was forthcoming,

notwithstanding the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait

_ PROeMTED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROMBIT

there for hie Soviet visa, According to DURAN, tho
Amorican know no one in Cuba, and''sho intended to
appropriately annotate thé American's card, The Soviet

official echoed her statement that the Amorican was not

known,

ogee 28 Soptember, Silvia DURAN was again visited
at the Cuben Embascy in Mexico City by the American
seoking a Guban transit visa, Mre, DURAN contacted at
least two members of the Soviet Embassy and facilitated
2 diroct conversation between one of the Soviets and the
American, Conversing in poor Russian, the-American —
stated that he already had beon to the Sovict Consulate

and had ioft anaddresa, The Soviet official replied that

"he was aware of that, The American suggested that ho 4f\
Aes

had not known his address then, and he had gone to shel
Cuban Embassy to ask for the address, vecense toy had
it, The American thea acceded to the Sete official's
invitation to come by and give cher tiie ‘adazene,

a, 1 October, In mid ptiiraiag an unidentified
{ndividual, speakiag br: ches RS stan, contacted the Soviet

Military Attache in Mexico City. He said he had been to

i
{

— oe
PROG [BTMED



13-00000 -

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED

tae Embassy tho previous Saturday (28 September) ant

hod talked with a Consul who been they would send a a

. telegram to Wachington;, ae therd been a roply? He

was referred to the! Sanoulate for the information,
cua

ea
‘These additiongiMateriels were promptly diseeminated in

Washingt ‘by the CIA to the White House, the Department of Ee
ss Sud the Federal Burcau of Investigation. =

e. 1 October, Sco peragraph } above for Leo

OSWALD's contact with the Soviet Consulate, Cad

I, Voloriy Visdivairovich KOSTINGV

13, Ib is beleved that the Soviet official with whom
OSWALD dealt in Mexico City was Consular Attache Valeriy
Viedimirovich KOSTIKOV, born in Moscow, 17 March 1933,
A photograph of KOSTIKOV is attached, In his letter of

9 November to the Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSWALD ay
oN

&
wrote about hig "meetings with Comrade KOSTIN (sic) of gi".

Soviet Union in Mexico City, Mexico," There is nadificial
ra

go
of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City with aondme resembling

UKOSTIN", other than Consul KOSTIKOV.

14, KOSTIXOV is the ogaten cer of five Soviet

Consular representatives who déal with visas and related



13-Q0Q00.

REPRODUCTION
PROTIBITED

matters. There is firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIXOV
is 2 Soviet State Security (KGB) cificer, and the other four Consular =
officers aro also known or otrongly-#GSpected to be Soviet Stats _
Sccurity personnel sorving uate official cover. The State Security

cs
e
Service is the major cf tie-Sovict intelligence services and it is '

charged with espicdage, counter intelligence and related matters =

ineiic the Sqvict Union and overseas,
&
A “If must be clearly stated that Soviet intelligence and

eh
security

officera placed abroad under official cover normally
are required to perform the routine and legitimate business

,
H

demanded by the cover job in an embassy or conavlato,

16, KOSTIKOV was first cpatted as 2 KGB man becouse
of his travels around Mexico, his habitual association with known
KGB officers, and because consuls, in Sovist practice, are
usually KGB men,

ms
17, KOSTIKOV is belioved to work for Department Thirteen:

of the First Chief Dixectorate of the KGB, It is the Department
responsible for executive action, including sabotage and.assassi~
nation, These functions of the KGB ore known within the Service

itself as "Wet Affairs" (mokryye dela).” The: Thirteenth Department



13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

itary defector to the USSR te study and to determine the

m
possibility of utiliziog the defector in his country of origin, =
. 18, An intensive review of the files of our Mexico City

. Station was undertaken immodiately-fter the asszaoination to

comp oxt eny previously unrepozied inforzaation about KOSTIMOV's

activity. No usoful new information bearing on the assassination eS

resulted ae

19, A close observation was maintained on the Sovict : :

thio effort,

personnel, KOSTIKOV in particular, for days after 22 Novembex,

Nothing unusual or out-of-patteza waa noted in the activity or =
movements of the Saviet personnel,
: 20, It is of parenthetic interest, however, that tho Soviet

Ambassador, when he made his call of sympathy on the American

bee
> eee
Ambassador, 23 November, was accompanied by two ranking 7B
intelligence officers who ere in the Soviet installation under ie

diplomatic cover, One is known to be from the State Security
Service and the other is an identified Soviet Gernal Staff

Intelligence (GRU) officer.

I, Monstary Payment to OSWALD ~ hivestigetion of Allegation

om
21, On26 November 1963 2

yung Nicaraguan named
Giberte ALVARADO Ugarte walked into the U,S, Embassy in
“WA

{ sevisitive
isu:



13-0000, | =
2, ol oh aad

SEN
Mi

= pepRoucTuONl
o City and claimed he hed beea in the Cuban == PROHIBITED g

Mexico City on 18 September 19$3 when a man he later recognized

M

to be Lee OSWALD hod been given $6, 500 in cash to kill someone,
ALVARADO was knowa to GIA as a former informant of a Central

American security service and to have beon used to penetrate

coramunist guerrilla groups. He said that-he was in Mexico

Bae

City still working for his sexvice, trying to get himself accepted
by the Cubans as a communist 0 they would take him to Cuba for

guerrilla training, ‘ALVARADO clearly was a trained intelligence

Fal

bad apporently visited the Cuban Embassy and its Consular offices :

on a number of occasions and he correctly identified some twenty

Cuban Embassy and Consular employees, : oy
22, While intensive investigation inthe United States __ . Ea
showed that OSWALD could uot possibly have been in mestegt> res
City on 18 September (he was known to have been in New Grleans tad
on both 17 and 19 September), intensive interrogation failed to :

shake ALVARADO!s story, However, the Central American

service for which he claimed to be acting, denied that he was ee
: ic
stillworking for them, Na * . ao
. .

| RePRooweTIeR?
SFO



13-00Q00:;

Mezican prese that osWaTs fad
Ss

ALVARADO over for further interrogation, At first, ARADO
persisted in his story, but oa 30 November he finally admitted
ina signed statement that he had fabricated the whole incident
of scoing OSWALD in the Cuban Consulate being paid to kill
e%,

Ny

a
24, Once releascdp aweyer, ALVARADO promptly

someone,

retracted his confession, ‘claiming that it had been extorted
ander threat of extreme duress,

<-- 25, Under ordinary circumstances CiA would have dis~

Segeiaea this retraction, But because of the importance of
resolving the problem GLA personnel continued the interrogation
in close’ coordination with the ‘FBI ALVARADO voluntazily
agreed to a-lie detector examination, A CIA polygraph expert,
assisted by an FBI opecial agent, requestioned ALVARADO and
secured admiccions that he must have been mistaken, The CJA
polygraph expert conciuded from the resulta of hio testw that” -
ALVARADO had fabricated his story about OSWALD ia toto,

26, I should be noted that when he first-told his story

on 26 November, ALVARADO could have known from the

visited the Cuban Consulate

[in REPRODUCTION
23, On 28 November 1953, the Mexican police ‘PROGIBITED

eas

ER

“PROAIBITED ~~ pete

wauue4t



13-001

REPROOUCT

in Mexico City, Aloo, he could bave heard the voor DROMIBITED 7

there that OSWALD had $5, 000 with him whon he returned from

‘Mexico to the United States, ALVARADO has since béon deported

by the Mexican authorities to his native Nicaragua, us

a
Mee
yee

Attachment - photograph

ia

¥
?
uy

| if

‘REPRODUCTION © ;

Gouus42

= PRORIBITED ~ <--~

Ho ee]


scuet——_RACPODMICTION
mausecomts_PRORIBITED

1. Four cards regarding Lee Harvey OSWALD ey
Marina OSWALD (Watch List)

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED SECRET


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

N
; /Egerts
“OSWALD, Lee Harvey wre gerter
. { Minsk, USSR 7 Augest, 1961 /°~25 5° e
Woda
DOB: 18 October 1939 :
POR: New Orleans, Louisiana
Defected to Russia 1959
17 August 1900 received tndeeirable dischargé
| from U. S. Marine.Yorps Reserve
| Reportedly expresses.a-desire for return to the US under
i certain cond{tions,
J ‘ -
1 Ae nee i F
— * i
ee a i {
SS TP DW 2 prey or i
Fe a =
TS . rT eee
OSWALD, Marina 26. Nov 63 4
, Box 2915 CI/Project/RE
: | Dalles, Texas feast . 4
Wife of late Lee Harvey OSWALD. . ’

CIE o3eaau : Z
ce Porter, (lemon a

»3J0943

REPRODUETIOg  SEORET
PROGIBIMED 28


13-00000

I

|
|

R

REPRODUCTION
“] PROWIBITED

29dunel965
Box 2915 Y CI /Proj/PH

Dallas, Texas

i
eee

i

Subje&t is the wife of the late Lee Harvey OSwALD; 4
recently married to Xenneth Jess PORTER, 27 year old
Texan; electronics technician. They were married i

in early June 1965 in Fate, Texas.
Lee ee

re

i NM

| ae Prosi ‘ovalOsuald
\
i

Meted byt. if 7.
. : . A

EPRODUCTION
PROKIBTTED



13-00000

soe REPRODUCTION
sau emons PROHIBITED

1, Blind Memorandum, dated 27 November 1963; Subject:
Lee Harvey OSWALD.
2. Transcript of telephone conversation between O'NEAL
and PAPICH at 0915 on 27 November 1963.
REPRODU
i)

REPRODUCTION —seener
PROGISITED


13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

27 Noveaber 1963
SUBJECT: Lee Hervey OSWALD

At 0915 hours on 27 November, }

. Papich, FBI Liaison Officer, called
am
to furnish in part such satorontice ates been able to acquire concern-

ae 1 Vetetupe DIR 84951 on 25 Novenber.

OF 2
Ge Onn the extent of

red from OSWALD prior to his death,

ing the requests containe

With reference to,

information which
Mr. Papich advised that eau is informed by the police (see notes)
With reference to paragraph E, which deals with the question of when the
Subject Left New Orleans and the identifying background information concern-
ing/Mrs. PAINE and the station wagon driven by Mrs. Paine when she drove
the wife and child from New Orleans to Texas, he stated that the Bureau
is working on that matter and he may have some information today.

Mr. Papich was advised that the Bureau is working on a matter of any
informetion concerning the wife's deelings.with the Soviet Embessy in

ce
te Saget Union. He also stated that

Yashington about visas to retura
PANY

ayy
the wife is being saterreeel a <i ions vere put in para F of the
SUN
mentioned teletyre( Biyore aw 4 receive subsequently a

teletype response but —<—o oy me know at this stage what he had.

Mr. Papich enphasizelt that there are all “inds of reports coming in
from all kinds of sources - "everybody except the North Pole." He felt
that ali of us have to keep our feet on the ground. He mentioned that a
report is being prepared by the Bureau and it was hoped that it could be
jotten out ‘today and delivered to Mr. Ketzenbach after which there would
be @ decision made as to whether it vould be publicized and this decision
would be made by the President.

Birch D. O' Meal
C/cl/sic

60017 : oe Lb
| REPRODUCTION ser AE

PROMIBITED

PROMIBITED


13-00000

REPRODUCTION
oEURET PROMIBITED

~ oy

5 nok
Mr. Papich: On questions A, B, C, D - he vas not! questioned on any of those.

We have been told the police ai
RED
and.vith the time ae us: Hgupte & thefi's ve questioned why the assessinatioa

S 2

‘aa we finally got access to hin

‘@agver covered. We weren't given

authority to move in usta Peiday 80 those questions were not covered.
With regard to B - fa Paine, etc., ve are working on that.
_FE - we have some information for you on that indicating communication
between him and the Embassy up there. i
“The vite is being interrogated. I don't mow if that took place yésterd: |
or is still going on. You are getting a teletype answer on that. I am

Just giving you a preview.

With regard to that, Nicareguan's, allegations thet the man vas in the
Cuban Embassy on 18 September, I understand we do have information that
he applied for a tourist card about the 15th of Segtember. ‘There is a
record shoving entry into Mexico on Septeaber 26. On about the 15th he

applied in New Orleans for a tourist cafd. We do know he vas in -

I may even have some later infordi foa.yihfich came in during the night -
attiiyd?
As you know, he was in Behe oe “on family left.
\e Ree x
. O'Neal: He left therectiie. :
c —— BLK Ny
P 3 He was seen onthe 2 asa Qae landlady said he skipoed during the night.
X
He was last seen by the landlady then. Now we have immigration records showing him

entering Mexico on the 26th which very strongly suggests that be was not in Mexico
oa the 18th. What we are trying to find out is where he was every single day -
the 25th, 2ith, and all the way back. I think the Nicaraguan story is fabricated

myself.

~ REPRODUCTION SECRET
‘PROMBITED



18-00000
r

| ; ‘REPRODUCTION
me PRORIGITED

~ CA
Page 2 of telephone conversation
Papich-O'Neal 27 Nov 63

O'N: It looks like it but I guess it has to be run cut completely.
? I understand he is not a very credible source and vas dusped by the

Nicaraguans. Well, that will be run out anyway out it doesn't look good.
AN

AS
Bear in mind that on the 25th ag‘WGs\fbat broke and he skipped out.

Of course he may have bath ut ue don't know.
\

wy Ni \)) aea\
ON: C ce a0 2 thet he had money? -
SY ahs a
P ‘ras pene \ah: will ell shape up quite accurately
yw
in the next couple on days. i
om: I've got a note on one here ~ there have been a number of them going
over there during the night, Sam. I will give you some numbers if you
want -
P: No, I'll let them take their course. They are in the midst right now

in preparing a complete up-to-date report. They are documenting everything
that tock place from the beginning on through and they are probably going
to try to finish that today. I uaderstend once it is finished KUPZENBAGE
takes it. Mitzenbach will take it and confer with committed agencies and
a determination will be made as to whether it will be’ made public or not.

I guess the President will decide that.
—*

or are doing @ report and we wili giye~you a memorandum on that sometime
rN
today. You vill ve over here, this at

P: Very definitely. oe : YY
orn: We will give it to You will mention it to you now. There is

a Dr. Jose Giullermo Aguifre of Mexico who has told a story to a USIA
officer on 26 November that a Marie Rodrigues de Lopex, widow of Lopez,

- had a son-in-law of hers who lives in New Orleans. and was well acquainted

REPRODUC Tan wa weet
PROKIBTTED



13-00000

S200 REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

Page 3

Papica: That's a county. — -O)\\)
Sw

ENON NY
On: His teleghone aS}Ss Ve and this Rodriguez ARVESTO runs a
Oe A
Spanizh lenguage school and is aif . According to Maria Rodriguez, her -
conversations

son-in-law has taped conuesstons-with OSWALD. oe
Papich: That might be referring to - there is a taped conversation - it’s been

on the air and,has been publicized. ‘There was a who did interview him on or
about the time he was arrested. In fact the transcript of that interview appeared

in a newspaper there the other day,

ont: This might be the same tapes and maybe there is some connection between
Rodriguez and the other guy vho had them. But ve will put this in a menorandum

and send it over to you.

Papich: Okay. Tell everybody to keep their feet on the ground. The Ambassador od

dom there just went outs. This will ali shape A It would be premature to move
Ria

on REVS)
so quickly on that angle. &€ Nee
O'N: It might have been all RS OWE kne@\wa would find other confirming stuff.
\)
4

0) cA
Papich: We have still & ‘ou Mfr ana investigate it but that
Q®
Ambassador down there - 'd from everybody but the North Pole on it.

)
e0)

Ig you let yourself go you will orbit.

REPRODUCTION SECRET a
PROBED



13-00000

REPRODUCTION

Sette PROHIBITED

etween Mr. aes Mr. Otileel 27 Nov 63 at lo:

W

Papich: > ‘I,may find in our files here - I
wet me up with the same analysis - that
Rants
“that he is in the 13th Department.
SP S

Both you and ve BES Maton that KOSTYKOV is connected with the

13th Dept in KGB. S _
O'N: Oa the basis of an analysis isn't it?

Papich: I think so. Is that all you have - the basis of an analysis - or do
you have anything more specific which would pinpoint him as being a
member of that dept.?

mon Z think that. all stems fron ( F6/ caver),

O'N: Yes and Pete is familiar with remation. AjL I can do is to call
Pete. ME

Papich: ‘The boss has asked thet eo want to have thet all right.

ON: I think ve sent a thin; SS) on that - I believe there vas a

CSCI on that. SQjora ae to st - Twit check on ite

evn
I am not go: sx elements.
No, keep it ri af brief and very simple.

C0017 27

REPRODUCTION oar =f Oe

PROMIBTTED “



13-00000

| —«CREPHODUCTION
. PRONIEITED

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. areas ects t (in Spanish) o Eeatecy
m Luise "cALDERGH and uniaen tified per:
3 “Novenber

2. Translat: elephone conversation.

* Mere sees “pay ti
PROMIBITED

REPRODUCTION Sener
ONIBITED


REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

_ 6001843

REPRODUCTION nk Dy
___PROMBITED ee


13-00000
101 CG ¢ 7

REPRODUCTION
PROMISED

an

t-test WUISA, tm a jing toxe says,
=e HY smiles end comments that is
Te had been one of the resctlonany extreniots
who were egainst Integration and that, but it seems tint they apprehended a type who

is nothing more than the president of cne of the committees of the Fair Play for

-- . Cuba, LUISA: That she knew this also. HF: That nothing kas been confirmed yst,
- bat it seems...that the one who did tt, ves’ crazy, independently of the fact that

this could have been sald about XAMEDY. "given the international conditions and.

of that sort; above all, that...LUISA: Interrupts and asks if it was a gringo that
killed him and EF says yes, but sald that he had been in Russia, and that he vanted
to become a Russian citizen, but Russia bad not wanted to nationalize hin...

OISA is surprised and says "Listen - they really Inov things there!” HF: Yea:
that he move Russian very vel and besides this type had gme vith Fidel's forces
to the Sterra, or wanted to go, sonethiag Dis that - who Imovs hav £t vas. LUISA:
Pretty sericus. Hv?

gays just about that, thet
_. Hr Bin St ah err Sat
the Revista Polits vies te NS out, when someone cane and gave them the °
aa wes o e

S
news; that he vas surprised thought he was joking. LUISA: That she had

>
ting with sone frtenda ant commenting on

been looking at the agazine, that the comrade haa brovght it 6 her. HF: That

cOCLe44

‘REPRODUCTION = yg pet

_PaOMIBITED ce tee



13-00000 a Xu ee, u -

. REPRODUCTION
73) . — PROGIBITED

2-
his friend consented that  Haxtean fad HeTled his, that suddenly he had realized
that the United States had teliih texas, jaslen out of evengn tied the Presitest

that It was ald a Joke, Hib they aah Nae until he told then to turn on

wa
the redio; that’s vhat ‘they, Qo Sher leemed about it; that the last he had

heard, a moment sgo, vas that type 13 ons OSWALD, that 1t is belteved that
‘this is the one, tut he has not confessed anything... LUISA: Bit they alreaay
Imov that he speaks Rvestan and belongs tqthe Pro-Cuba Comittee: thet they
ener te etme et ome
EF says she 1s right, adding thes tt ola é
men ye thn Mn tat ye
to goon, EF: We tuSQ net | ee had seened...public or had been
one of the segregstionists 6: {Integration who had killed Kenedy, then
there was, let's say, the possibility that n sort of civil var vould arise in the _
Unitea States; that contradictions vould: te\gharpened, the critical situation the
comtey te going trong, then vo we eammetng here, Eat they fou reno
tion im this type, no? More Guat cf wilt find tt or st wap trua,vio
wD apo ood asta vst tL ingyen. BP:
Who knows. LUISA? Ag o yer thres and now, that makes three (she laughs).
HP: I think that dt will be SCS ei

@\that they tried to find som let's

knows; let's see what

LUISA: They suspended it because they could not go. H¥ asks why, ani LUISA says

Srvihs the death of KENNEDY, then ve
- psn vith SENTA an she agreed to rund 28 and lee it at next week, bot 18

a wat etn ete tne: BF: “That has to be taken into

go that after they can say that ve are

‘REPRODUCTION ee
POTD



13-00000 ~ ~ oo.

REPRODUCTION
PROMISITED

oa
HP: Olmy; he asks where s!

going to stay now, and LUISA comments that now
she plans to wove Ea bine of the doctor (female). HF aske if they
imov everything now, and Liisa Sys yes, but doesn't inow hov the thing is, or if
they vI1l have to stay in the enbassy, hovever beligves tint today it will not be
possible, because everyone has gone to the sivmert and the enbassy bas no car,

however, possibly tonorrow morning inst of going to the study circle, she vill

nove. HP: ‘hen he will call her teiorrow. IUISH: To try the eabassy or at the
isy, she will go hone where she vill

GOCLEAS

‘REPRODUCTION
_ PROweRTED



13-00000 & c

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

002. pregunta por ROLANDO y NILDA informa --
que estd abajo, pregunta si quiere que lo Llame y NICO dice
que si. Luego NILDA_edy NELA (empiezan a hablar en --

el mimero 017). NILD:

qué le diga a NICO we parece que

ROLANDO salié un moriento a ange, perp que regresa en se
guida. wai Gesiusaca aa
era’ para ingte Sete’ gure: conta les paquetes del... y que su--

piera que seSPos GAS
pregunte si ya oe envueltos. NELA asf lo hace y con-

el recadé a NICO, dice yue-

‘ey llevar GUILLERMO. NILDA: que le--
testa que si. NILDA: que estd bueno.- 029.-

029. Salida al 45-91-: ~21.-1632
el Sr. CARMONA, MP é Yakorma que ya le tiene su. juego-

NICO solicita hablar con --

de juntas, pero no tienen -los anillos. luego Dn. FSLIX

con NICO (ompiezeek Bable Ss) el niim.073) para indicarle —

que ya tiene ii ae Ba 4untas, que anillos no tiene y-

el nimero Serie Sk nota no encuentra qne pieza es. -

porque no viene Qur catdlogo. NICO:que mandaré pregun
tar alld para que le digan que cosa es eso;que pasard a re-
coger las juntas; pregunta si hay posibilidad de conseguir-
el juego de anillos y FELIX dice que sf, que los puede con-
seguir en Dr.Lucio 8 y les diga que va de su parte. NICO
toma nota y acepta.- 085.-
3 - ay
089. Fatrada 1633.- vicToR, ISHERNANDEZ pregunta a GUILLERNO -
eK, i Baggeasce que nada, pero hoy sale -
para La Habana a Waelve entyo de 5 dfas, por lo que ya --
. SY HERNANDEZ acepta y pide salude-

RUIZ qué hay de nue.

COLLEAT

‘REPRODUCTION — oo
PROBED =



13-00000

WepaoouETION 8" ga
PROD

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

,¢C-2124.-22 nov.63).-

Entrada 2730.57. pr sjunta a LYISA si ya sabe la flti-

ma noticia -§

teré cake apte

eso ws rent on en principio pensaren yue habia sido -

Seat de burla, dice "sf, claro, me en-

HF sonrfe y conenta que -

uno de los ext¥emistas reaccionarios que estaban en contra-
de la integracién y eso, pero parece que aprehendieron a un
tipo que es nada mAs que el presidente de uno de los comités

del trato limpio con “uba.. LVISA:yue de eso también ya

se enterd. UFique tedivfa no confirman nada, pero pa-

rece...., que el que do haya hecho, estaba loco, indepen---

dientemente de quechuy- bien Pedfa desvidrsele eso a KENNEDY

"digamos en lag endicsones “Enternacionales y las condiciones

internas det
més, princi,

Macional ...

pues...." LUISA: y externa

HF: por eso te digo en lo Inter-
jodia ver bastante afectada y no pueden --
sufrir un gran cambio, con un cambio de Presidente 6 con una
cosa de ese tipo; sobre todo que... LUISA lo interrum
pe y pregunta si era gringo el que lo maté y HF indica que-
si, pero dijo que habia estado en Rusia, que querfa naciora

lizarse ruso, pero que Rusia no le hab{o querido dar la na- :

cionalizacidr.

+e 5 ~“ WUTSA se eorprende y di “oye,

eémo alld sane Gans, crete 1! cofio F *, HF: que sf;

SY es

que sabe rusé way b que ademds éste tipo habfa ido con
ON

las fuerzas\% "gion @ la sierra, 6 querfa az, algo asf, --

SY ¢,
quien sabe como.\. como estarfa la cosa. LUISA: que -

grave. HF: bastante;pregunta qué mds ha sabido por ahi-
y LUISA dice que casi precisamente eso, que hace rato se en

teraron y ya estdn..... cSHFique estd muy mal eso% que -

estaba comiendo con seagate y comentando 1a Revista Po—

1ftiec, yla cual ya CO uno liegé y les dié la --
noticia; que 61 2or ereys que los estaba vaci--
lando. LUZ; one mirando la revista, pues -
precisament: Rien fata HF:yue su ---

CORY NO.



CC.
: REPRODUCTION
PRORIGITED -

*,C.M24.-22 nov.63).—

13-06000 . C

a? amigo comenté ages habia matado & mexicano que de repente

broma, ASS no:
el radio; oe lo hicieron y ahf se enteraron; que lo

Wiltimo que acaba de escuchar hace un momentito, es que ese-
tipo es un tal OSWALD, que se creé que éste sea, pero no ha
eonfesado nada... LUISA: pero que ya saben que habl,
ruso y que pertenece al Comité pro-Cuba; que ya saben que -
el tipo querfa nacionalizarse, pero el tipo no ha confesado.

que podria ser que trataran de

HF le dé& la razén, agres,

encontrar digamos una—s pluct én de ese tipo, porque. ...

LUISA desnués de petine apes ae espere un momentico, pide -

que le diga ons: poate! ‘pensamos que si acaso hubiera

sido 6 si wees publica 6 que habfa sido uno -

de los segr se ia’s 6 en contra de la intesracién los -
EE

que habfan.asesin&do a KENNEDY, entonces hab{a digamos, po-
sibklidad de que surgiera una especie de lucha civil.é gue-

rra civil en Estados Unidos; digamos que se agudisaran mds-

las contradicciones, la sitaacién critica por la que pasa -
el pafs, entonces estabamos cowentando aqui, que encontraran

una resolucién de ese tipo

.0?, ya m4s internacional; 6 -
lo van a encontrar 6 eub-ee, quien sabe; pues vamos a -
ver que pasa. = fe y pregunta qué pasard.
HF: quien sabe.

HF: yo creo que -

va a ser el ahora en la fiesta esa de SILVIA.

Y :
‘on poryue ellos no podfan ir. -

LUISA:que la
. HPF pregunta por qué y LUISA dice "para que desyudés digan a

queestamos celebrando la muerte de KENNEDY, entonces hablamos

con SILVIA y ésta acepté suspenderla y dejarla para la sema

na que viene, pero que nc coinéli & con el entierro (se rie)",
ois

UF:yue hay que tener en cuenta eso LUISA:que seré  -

des;ués del duelo, del fate ¥ :odas\esas porquerias. G
HF: okey; pregunta safes) se vava\duedar ahora y LUISA couenta

‘REPROoUCTIORs ae

copy NO...»

PTD



REPRODUCTION
(Re

pre; nae
que si, ie oe esté 1a cosa 6 si se tendrdn que-

YO
‘em! , sin embargo creé que hoy no serd -~-.

13-00000 ~‘ : bs
rt

quedar en 1.
posible, or todo mundo fué para el aeropuerto y no -
tiene coche en la embajada, sin embargo posiblomente mafiana_
en la mafiana en vez de ir al efirculo de eatudios, se mudard.
HF:que ontonces 1e hablard mafana. LUISA:yue la procure

en la embajada 6 en la casa, ya que si no se quedan en la--~

en donde estaré como a las -

emba jada, se ird para su se

10. HF acepta.- 1250
< 5
@ Se re .
173. Entrada 1 Sina Biegiinta por URDIETA y-LGISA des-

>
oan
pués de dec: eSaue_ ni cat, indica que le pasé su recado y

URBIETA le dijo SOeP Socordana eual era su asunto y no -~
sabfa su teléfono. DURAN: que ne tiene su teléfono,pues
unicamente tiene su direccién, LUISA pregunta cudl es-

su asunto y DURAN dice que es sobre el Mineral de RUTILO --
de parte del Ing.MONROY. LUISA:que llame mafiana, -
DURAN acepta.— 184.~ : :

184, apes) CONCEPCION y LIISA informa -
que anda por el ee HP:que le hablaré nfs -~
tarde. Ee gots bueno.- 188.-
ce
188. Dntradas sin WyStostactén,— 202.-

REPRODUCTION ites ggg ee



13-00000

cx «CREP RODUETION
vsseorn:  PROMIBITED

1. Transcript_of telephone call to Soviet Embassy
aa ia
£

2. Transcript 6 NL Soviet Embassy
(15-69-87) ober 1963.

elephone call to
at 1037 hours on

4, Translation of telephone call from Soviet
Consulate to Cuban Consulate at 1626 hours
on 27 September 1963.

3. Transcrip Ay
Soviet Consulate
27 September 1963.

5. Transcript/(in Spanish) of above telephone
call.

6. Translation of telephone call from Cuban Con-
sulate to Soviet Consulate at 1605 hours on
27 September 1963.

7. Transcript (in Spanish) of above telephone
call.

8. Summary of telephone call made by Silvia DURAN
to Soviet Consulate at 1151 hours on 28 Septem-
ber 1963.

9. Transcript (in Spanish and English) of above
telephone call.

10. Telephone call made by Lee OSWALD to Soviet
Consulate on 1 October 1963.

11. MEXI-6344 (IN 38854), 1 October 1963.

12. DIR-72527, 1 October 1963.

13. MEXI-6453, 8 October 1963 [duplicate of FOIA
No. 5-1A] (from Mexico City File)

14, DIR-74830, 10 October 1963 [FOIA No. 7-2]
15. MEXI-7055, 25 November 1963 [duplicate of FOIA

No. 89-33] (from Mexico City File) Cover sheet
included,

16. | vave-euREE RO! WG LON, »scate of FOIA

101-573] Cover sheet included (from Mexico

No.
City File) ROGIBNTED
17, MEXI-7067 6 No f ve [duplicate of FOIA

No. 24-54] Cover Sheet included (from Mexico
City File)

SECRET

REPRODUCTION
PRORISIMED


13-00000. i

“ipaouste

Ch unLassirtan coc ena

Qe élOewuse C] secret [] conFiDENTIAL CO] iw =O ONCASSIIED |
5 7 4937009
REPRODUCTION . PASE 1 OF 95

__ PROHIBITED we eee


- | " RePRODUCTION
| ——— PROBIBATED

an ¢

RIG: MC. CHOADEN .
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: 26 NOVEMBER 1963

“IR: ~COMMO SECRET FILE: 9593 :
CHRONO (DUMMY) Gaeta) GPIDEAL P
S i] A ABA

TB 1304, . . 4 |
|

1. AT THIS MOMENT STATION OFFICER AND LOCAL SECURITY

OFFICER (WHOM HE CONTACTED) ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN
WHO CLAIMS THAT ON 18 SEPTEMBER HE SAW LEE OSWALD RECEIVE
SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS IN MEETING INSIDE CUBAN

EMBASSY MEXI. ah SY oe aie

2. REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE MEXI OPIM ANY TRACES

GILBERTO ALVARADO; BORN 41 JAN 1940 CIUDAD RAMA, CELAYA,
NICARAGUA, CLAIMS HE AWAITING FALSE MEXICAN DOCUMENTATION
PRIOR RECEIVING SABOTAGE TRAINING CUBA, SAYS JUAN LORILLO,
ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS FONSECA AMADOR ARE MEMBERS HIS: -* ;

{COMMUNIST ?) ORGANIZATION NICARAGUA,

—~ g Q = END FO MSG
DAES '
4 A x a
COORDINATING OFFICERS
M.C.C. SECRET M.C,.C, for W.C.C. .
autleGickine orrtcer CLSSSTEATION MS Sacl Sete
OUTGOING:

GOCL E52. :

REPRODUCTION — |
PROMIBITED ——



| io

Ty ae x

a UNCLASSIFIED oO

fr G10“iES" C] secret [J CONFIDENTIAL ] REMMAL —”C] UNCLASSIFIED

REPRODUCTION airs.
2

t



13-00000

. * REPRODUCTION
| | PemneTE

DATES”
25 NOV 63 .

OPERATION.
IMMEDIATE.

2522217 $710

To CITE,
. “WAVE 3149.
MEX DIR MEXT . nuMEER
1. ODFOAM ADVISED WAVE THAT PHONE CALL FROM ONE JOSE SAN aNToNto
Have IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186334) TO DRe. EMILI JUNEZ/PORTUONDO y
Come WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER 63.0. CONVERSATION WAS IN SPANISH
AND GIST OF IT IS: PLAN.OF CASTRO CARRIED. FORWARD, BOBBY IS NEXT.
SOON THE ATOMIC BOMBS WILL RAIN AND. THEY WELL NOT KNOW FROM WHERE.

. WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS. HE “SUBJECT 201-312304.

CABACAe HOWEVER, ator=2 ADVISED CABACA IS PROBABLY JOSE 5 in
ISAINZ, DPOB CIRCA 1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CUBAe
Y RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3000 AND HAS.SAME PHONE - .
NO. PARA 1 ABOVE. HE 1S NOW OCCUPIED WITH OBTAINING MEXICAN VISAS .
FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUBAe HE IS PRONOUNCED BATISTIANO
AND RIGHTIST WITH TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN U.Se AND HEADS THE
ALIANZA PARA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICA.
3. LOCAL ODFOAM BEING INFORMED RE PARA 2 INFO. =~

po? oF
9 I~ $73

25/2335Z SE G BsFiemion : _

INCOMING

‘REPRODUCTION — Bait
PROIBTED «= a ak

—



= | "ep eantieTtOR
PROSIBITED

AMAL (conn NTIAL (1 secret
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

fem G10 “ee (] secret ©] CONFIDENTIAL. =] INTERNAL, = 7] UNCLASSIFIED

+ COCLFSS |

“REPROOUCTION
PROMOTED tg ras



13-0001

TOR 1304. é ‘ 44)
an ¢ ¢ |

ORIG:

uSTR: ~COMMO

100

* RepRODlICTION
PROKIEITED

* M,M,CHOADEN : .
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE DATE: 25 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE: Cp=3593>

GPIDEAL

* CHRONO (DUMMY)

rere

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

IMMEDIATE DIR MEXI "Roma

RYBAT . no

1, MEXI DAILY "EXCELSIOR" OF 25 NOV IMPLYING OWN INVESTIGATIONS |
RAN STORY DESCRIBING OSWLAD TRIP 70 Mexico 26 SEPTEMBER THRU
3 ocTOBER, CROSSED BORDER AT LAREDO, VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY
27 SEPT AND NEXT DAY WENT TO. SOVIET EMBASSY. PURPOSE
ALLEGEDLY WAS TO OBTAIN VISA'GO SOVIET UNION, THIS NOT OUR LEAK.
CANNOT ELIMINATE GOBERNACION AS SOURCE, - ,
"2, FYI: PRESUME HQS IS AWARE OF AP STORY DATELINED HAVA if
7 SEPT 1963. : AT RECEPTION AT BRAZILIAN EMBASSY FIDEL CASTRO

IS QUOTED: "WE ARE PREPARED TO FIGHT THEM AND ANSWERIN KIND, _

UNITED STATES LEADERS SHOULD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY

ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS TO ELIMINATE THE CUBAN LEADERS, .

THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE,"
3. PARA ONE STORY WENT OUT ON AP TODAY.

END OF MSG

:
COORDINATING OFFICERS
sun Sne concen meSbainornce
CUTIGOING .
GCLAESE

> REPRODUCTION

PROWIBITED 7 _ a : Proce L oF 23



13-00000 _

"REPRODUCTION
een ge PRO
i, arene, 6, (SSH —

CUNT: oe ea INDEX

CITE DIR

REF: | MRKI 6453 cx ae 17) -

1. LEE. OSWALE NEO CALLED: SOVERE 2 ocr mmonasy IENTICAL
LEB HENRY OSWALD (201-289248), BORN 18 OCT 1939, NEW ORLEANS,

LOUISIANA, FORMER RADAR. OPERATOR IN UNITED STATES MARINES
“WHO DEFECTED TO USSR IN OCT 1959.. OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEY

_ INCHES, ONE HUNDRED. SIXTY FIVE Pounns,

-LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAiR,

BLUE EYES. ! s
~2., ON shocr 1959 iE ATTEMPTED TO RENOUNCE HIS UNITED |
STATES CITIZENSHIP To, THE erat Seares HMB IN WOSCO™, |
INDICATING BE HAD APPL 7 SOVIET CITIZENSHIP. ON 13 FEB
TRE US EMB MOSCOW meciiD aN nat ~D LETTER FROM OSWALD
OS Pre ap a Ware SUBS INDICATED
HE DESIRED NOR HES, DS ‘PPF‘AS WISHED TO HETURN TO TSA

POSTMARKED Mi!

rp “WE COULD Cows To Sous’ AGHREMENT CONCERNING THE DROPPING

a ‘uowinoog

FOTTTGAG 0 sz0snegual «> .°

;LOF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS "AGAINST WE:"*, ON 8 JULY ON EIS Om

INITIATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE ENB oe Has “WIFE TO SEE ABOUT
wo DOl- TE gad
HIS RETURN TO STATES. SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACTUALLY HAD NEVER

cA

- APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATION aT (0 ad 63
eon coonosnarine orricens (awa INUED)
= AUTRENTE:
ae “SECRET ‘creumincion ore
fy 7a REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN. THE ISSUING: OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Ley :
: - 6S baPy;

REPRODUCTION
PROUT Bre) _ _ ee 9 268


13-00000 -

REPRODUCTION
7 ROBIE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

1262

ones : ROUTING
2 INDEX ec r
et: No Inoex i

DATE: DALE IN cERRE NS) ~
wr £

“T0

|. FROM: DIRECTOR

SS CONF: ”

‘THAT HAD BEEN’ EMPLOYED SINCE:
TAN RADIO AND TV FACTORY IN MINSK
"WHERE, WORKED AS METAL WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP. . “OSWALD WAS
MARRIED ON 30 APRIL 2961 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A. -
DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORY 17 JULY 194} USSR. NO HDQS TRACES. a
HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR' WIFE-TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE : :
COULD APPEAR AT EKB FoR, VISA. INTERVIEW, HIS AMERICAN PPT

us: EMB:MOSCOW STATED ‘TWENTY MONTES 7 ‘a

"OF REALITIES oF ‘arrR_ np sonst UNION EAD CLEARLY HAD HATURING

~ ay LATEST HDQS INFO WAS ODACED REPORT DATED MAY 1962
SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND |

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIST WIFE HAVE EXIT PREMITS AND DEPT STATE
“HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL itns THEIR INFANT CHILD

70 USA.
(CONTINUED)

coonpinarine oFricens rair 2 :
teed em atinate | qUTWENTICATING
SECRET ai td orrices

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING_QFEICE PROHIBITED. rt Copy Now

RECEAsiNG oFricea

Gal4e 5g

REPRODUCTION .
_PRowermep EE


13:00000..

" RepyooueTiO:
PRERIEITED

ize
ROUTING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
0 INDEX os RS ar ]
1 No INDEX

FILE IN cs oo

€ a Wo = ay

Paes ;

DereRneD 3 AR
ROUTINE:

Ome o. TIB3O
a — mo
co raro PARAS

5. 3 REF <— s ans BEING DISSEMINATED

0 mDgS oF ODENVE, } ODOATH, AND ODURGS. PLS KEEP
BDQs ADVISED om. ANY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION

‘according: to LIENVOY 1: Oct, an American male
poke broken Russian.said his name Lee Oswald
(phonetic) stated he at Sov Emb on 28 Sept shen

spoke with Consul. He discussed sending a telegram
to Washington. No local Dissemination had been made.

who .

SR/CI/A/Roll (in draft) . ; ~
CIAidaison/Roman. (in draft) dizer?
x I, fs dragt) J
- Akai Ops fb. :
eee canes. :
bate? cericen +” eoonDIATING gvvicERS

bens

Cpa DE

CCCLESS

» REPRODUCTION
PROKIBTTED ae teat

a ees a 7


13-00000_
(

REPRODUCTION
PRORATED.

BE Bo ( = a ry
, bys

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
DATE: 8 ocr 1963,

CITE seer gitd3 _,
le ACS, 1 oor 65, NERA wats GxO SPORE ROK TOSSTAN SATD IS
(Promrsc), Staz=D HE Seiiae on 08 sex wma sree wo
c WOK HE RELEVED we VALERY WARRIOR OTE. SUBJ ASKED SOV’
GUARD IVAN OBYEDEOV WHO 205, 2 eg potion we me ma: TO
WASHINGTON. corny i SR RGD NOMEN OSE Y, HE TEESE

HAD BEEN SEE. VY
2. ‘BAVE. PHOTOS MALE APPEARS BE AMERICAN ENTERING SOVEMB 1216 HOURS,

LEAVING 1222 ON 1 OCT. APEAREME AGE 55, AVELETIC BUILD, GINGA 6 FEED, RECEDING
HAIRLINE, BALDING TOP. WORE KHAKIS AND SPORT SHIRT. SOURCE: ‘LIEVPTY.

3. NO LOCAL DISSEM.

LADILLINGER WCCURTIS |
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER RELEASING OFFICER
j
CoCiFEO

“REPRODUCTION |
ee

L


wre eee

MEXI

*RE CLAAN EXILE sULIS
WA FQ2 JPG ASAINET CA

PRRUMEN

1. BASIC EQS POSITION IS TO RENDER ASSISTANCE AHY iusvOws Tins
GROUP CARRYING FIGHT TO castro. JURE FALLS IN TITS CATEGORY wid CS
PROCUREMENT AS WLLL AS RECEIVING DNTALLS

_intsrasTer i EFEECTE:
THRECF. WHILE OBVIOUSLY, BO HOT WISH WAVE L-2 INVOLVED IN ANY OViIT
ZRILS ACTIVITY, THERE NO OLJECTION L-2 REVDERING PURELY COVERT

ASSISTANCE PROVIDED DOES NOT JEOPARVIZE SIS GF3 UTILITY. 2
LANE: CONTACT Bs MAINTAINED AND UGS KEPT ADVISED,

2, JULIO LANIER INVIA was ONS C7 CRIGINAL rember cuec PRO-UNIBA
cuains SF GIILTO (RICO) Tomo mB 3059, IaTTIAay meup roorTicN
Gar 0233, FaCM LITANIL-4), %0

43 GOCRSTARY FOR PROFISSIAS .

Gast) cr ECL nave

IT POOSIGLS TRORETS TAT Lora

ALS Gi CUR!

CULT APFIOACIOS ALZ RELATED.
- : A .
D > A £4: ti
me SESSA wuss

43/263

EPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED



13-0000"

| " REPRODUCTION

amece HB

wees. CHfOA, RI, OP 2, RF,

DIR CITE HExI 6344
4

MATERIALS UNDER TH 251905, Poitca NUMBER 4033, POUCHES
SOTCSER TO SE MELD In REGISTRY UNTIL Picaan UP SY
PRESENTLY TDY Nas,

€E

Popes Oe

ants tnd onetime lar ite

: , R EPROOUGTION 7. 66 case

PROGISITED free is oF as


SET * orca

' In
wee oor PPROUIBETED,
HOBYs as you can.
“OBR:
1356 5
s 1h0. (previously transcribed)
Oe
151. In at 248 (7) Mo / the seme Person who phaned a day or so

ago snd spoke in | pedktn Russian/ speeks to EYED,
Hello, this LE OSWALD

(phon) speaking. I was at your pleco

last S:; sad te @ consul, and they said shat
thi i er em to Washington, so I wanted to find
out

, anything new? But I don't remember the name
of that consul. . :
KOSTIKOV. He is derk /heir or skin?/.

Yes. My name is OSWALD.

Just @ minute I'll find out. They say that they havent
received anything yet.

Have they done anything?

Yes, they say thet a request has been sent out, but nothing

has been received as yot. -
An@ whate.e? ie hangs —

2h9. Le transerdied) .

Lowrise Cmbe Friltcaer 15-GO-S5
/ Ovijhes (103
2.34 — H§-T132

O92) ~ 1320 . a
Citar Es

REPRODUCTION NE

SEGRE oo ve

PAGE 13 OF 2B
lta Cale

_ PROGIBITED



13-98000-. .

7
| 208~

Lienvoy

28 SET, 1983
156055

208.

7 we 15D hrs.

MOs
MIs
‘MO:
MI:

MO:
Ta

MIs

MO:

iq

somone

&

nh WR 6
Bntroda, Bde Aa. Osh. quien tice ue
i s bi

STEVIA DURAN y Mis ISLES con cig persona fdra—> > comexit:
en ospafiol que le pustpron telefono aj aparrero “Ye apunta que -
es 02 14-12-99 23; t SILVIA 1e dice, sobre el et\dadadene
norteanericano y q 3 va a hablar. 232—~ 235=-|HF habla,
RUSO, HD 1o habla on PNGLES.—— SIOUEN Los DOS EY Tr LES. = Zibb

/Plesse see the Sjentan —— wo a, wetting
spesks in Baglish to someone in the b: ickgrounds Ee ssid wait

2sDo you spoait Russian? Yes. Way don't you talic-to him?s/

I dontt know,

kes the phone snd ssys in broken Russia:

‘I was in your Embsssy end spoke to your consul. Just 9 minut
* MI tekes the phone and asks MO in English whet does he want?
/im Russion/ Please speck Russian.

Wast else do you want?

I wes just now at your a and they took my address ©
I know that. i :
7spesks terrible, herdly recognizable Russia: até not

know it then. I went to the'Cubsn Embsssy to ask them for
my sddress, because they have ite.
not far from the Cubsen Embassy.
Well, I'Ll be there right away.



REPRODUCTION
RITE

NN

Silvia DURAN callsthe USSR Embassy and talks to an unidentified

C

Soviet. She siysthatin the” ba Embassy there is a North,
Y

American who was at Wersovkee Enbassy. The Soviet says wait a

minute. Silvia DURAN speaks English with someone - and comments
in Spanish that they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99 and to take
the number down - Silvia DURAN then says the American citizen is
going to talk with you, i.e., the Soviet. The American first
speaks Russian and the Soviet speaks English. They continue in
English. The American talks broken Russian and says I was in

your Embassy and spoke to your Consul. Just a minute. A Soviet

takes the phone and’ asks the. American in English what does he want?
The American says please-Zpeak Russian. The Russian says what else
c do you want? The American says I was just now at your Embassy and
they took my address. The Soviet says I know that. The American,
in hardly recognizable Russian, says I did not know it then. I
went to the Cuban Embassy to. ask them for my address, because they
have it. The Soviet says why don't you. coGe again and zeave your _
address with us, it is not far from the Cuban Embassy. The Ameri-

can says I'll be there right away.

HSCR

GCOLFES

‘REPRODUICTIONY 7
PRONIBITED | tise Je ors

rer



15

38-0000

Lian

27 SET, 1963
15 6055

oELiE! . . _
REPRODUCTION
c ¢ PROTIBITED

cetrada. IF -& ingulade de Cuba, fice que esta aiif .
oo um ‘etudadade Americans que fue a solicttas una vibe pasa Cub
en Trénsitoe porque ‘va 3 y entences quiere! saber con”
quicn habia hablado ella.lo' wands con ellos’ é¢\ 1a -Snbaja
da rusa dicdendole que st ellos 1o hacian o aceptuban Jo visa
que entonces ellos los. cthanos taublen se 1a dsban sin mas =

tramites naducas avisande |: Dntyraciém en Cuba, y qulore saber

son Ss tazpoce con'que —

un hadlé porque ed flee quo ne
persona y que le dijeron & ei que no tenia problema. HD le.
pide espare un mousento. ‘at 420 MF es SILVIA DURAN det
Consulade da Cuba y axzlibal Jo mismo a otro ID, ste lo dice
que le dejo su telefono ys}: iNonbre para que despues le Laren.
SILVIA ca le proporeiona aud hae ef telefono 11-28-47.— 7 que
aprovechh come cosa persoml de qua ella se cawbio de domicilic
y no ha podido avisur ;ara que! tp exvien el boletin. y quo ahora
se 1a puede dar. ID) le pide qui|itamo a KOUNILARENKO para que le
ce st canble, 7 pide le de el njsbre de la Consejero o Agrogado
Culsval, SILVIA dice que se Las TIRDSA Preaiza y Le Tame}
al 14-13-26. TD que gracias.— 835—

fo-F-12 23/3

GocaF es fi

‘REPRODUCTION Wace

Pia
CAGE 1b OF AP



‘pawn aa are

COCt rEg

omer

Fete

EPMODUCTION
— PRORIBITE

EMBAJADA RUSA.- 15-60-55
27 soptionbro 63.-
LZh-NBL-T128-
0900-2114 hrs.-

HD que no est4 que

ID le pide espere a Bowento. 384—- 392-
lame como a las cinco de la tarde.-~ 39mm

(60S tas

Entrada.- 11? del Consulado de Cuba, dice que esta allf ..

ee wn ciudadado Americano q) fue a licitar ua a para Cube
a oe ee ee oe

habtan © aceptaban la visa .
ambien se la daban sin mas ~ -*:
tramites nadamé: 3 See ae en Cuba, y quiere saber

con quien haj “dice ‘que no sabe tampoco con que =

weeg

persona y¥ qt gee: que, si: que no tenia problema. BD le
pide espere un m oe 4OK—- 430—~- MP os SILVIA. DURAN del. |
Consulado de Cuba y explica lo mismc a otro HD. Este le dice -
que le deje su telefono y su nombre para que despues le, Llamen.
SILVIA se lo proporciona asi como el telefono 11-28-47.- ¥.que |
aprovechh como cosa: ‘Personal de que ella se cambio de. domicilio
y no ha podide avisar para que le envien el boletin y que ahora
se la puede dar. MD'le pide que liane a KOUKRARENKO para que le,
de su cambio, y pide le de ‘ponbre de la Ja Consejore o Agregado

maflana como de 10 ana o a las 12. ARANA pregunta cual

es el nombro de HD. Est zegatiee y¥ le dice que espere un
Qi en la Ewbajada. ARANA dice

=- SIGUE CON SU BLA

OR con Lo



— +
 -" REPRODUETIOR

Soviet’ Entas:
27 Sept 63.-

<n ——PRORIBITED

395- (629) IN. OV. - From the Cuban Consulste- Says thet there is an
tok

O = WaSrican_hare who has recusste: For Cuoa because

he is goiny to the USSR. CV, {éxerican)

spoke at tha lot Embassy had rent him over to

then thinking that if the:Sovis @ visa then the Cubans

would give him one sithout -snymora procecsing - only advising the

Zunigration of Cuba.7G¥ ~ nants yw xith whom he (imerican)

spoke sincs he hij alt Goel 1 ene eit her and he was told tht trera

were no problemsa° TE - asks thet OV. xait a minute. 4ob— 410

OV 4s SIIVIA thé Coban Consulate and explains the sane to

the other IKQ. Tris one'te}7S har to Jeave her name and number so

63 he can calsh per, cA gives it to him alotig with the tel, nun.

11-28-47,- Silvia ‘as a personal thing thet shs has moved and

. that she has not advised about her changetof address and will not
irecelw the Bulletin and sha can advise them now. IV. asks that she
call KOUKHARNKO in order to change the address, and then asks for
-the name of the Cultural Attache. SILVIA says it is TERZSA PROSNZA
whose number ts 14-13-26. IV. thanks her.~- 435 t

poo, : ne Sr a
i :



fae . ‘SEOMT ‘pee Th ie

R

‘ ye
6 hrs. WM) sregynta a SIL

&rie etre que st, qe all: ste
ar ie né doi conlulade on ~

27 SET. 1963
a upton respecte a str peomiaie, perc. oso
15 61 59 : Se unos euatie 0 sineolmtes pore ain

7 tener ese permiso|de Ia URSS deben de preg:mtar 7 mas bien no
se le puede depachr aquf el visade sin pre:umtarle a Vashingto:
peze seth cate scles ie costed ine earta on queids un mtenbro
fnvar do Cube y ha dicho que ellos 12s

de una orgeniane:

Cubanes no pueden cr arlo ch vinode sin ei visade ruso y ahora

HD no sabe que hace:

1 al,Qporque doben de esperar In contes-
@
© 2 nadio on Cuba y ontonces st
@ aecthes) ia visa, porque el pensaba_
SM ya sabia que se tba a tardar

tacién dia Vashinyton. ellos tumuien, porque 41 pro-

blum de el, es que cl
e3 ast ea my dificil
tramitar ou visu WN
tucho en
la URSS. ID
Vashington. ya.
URSS porn regresar_a‘ln patria, ella va a zecibir ou visade on
Washington pero teniendé jese visade ella porrian commicarlo.
a cualquier Ingar ese pipmtos por ejomplo aqui o.en cualquier
etra parte 1s puede roc{eir, pero shorita ne ins tiencn, STLVIA
eua elere y qne tampoco ce le puede dar una carta porque no

sauen sf ou visa sexé opr, TD qua elles solo deran el visa.
Jo sein les # Andtohetenay WNEA qun entonces eso nended en su

»- malestia., SIL

a= Ble=

‘REPRODUEON
_ PROM ATED



_ 7 a _ REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED.

03.013 5-1S:
IV - inside Voice.

OV - outside voice.

out to 1413.26. (1625 hrs} (Cuban Znbassy) IV. — asks" the
number of the Cuban Gonsul. Ol. - It's —11-28-47.-- 294—

7.-(1626 brs)- IV asks SILVIA if the American
Says yes, ke is here now. IV.- Agcording
% showed from the Consulate in Xashington he
ato stay for a long time with bis wife who is
NH h2 received the answer from sastington con-
SWd1 < onsidering the processing it will take 4
) at permission of the USSR they have to request...
St S>visa can't ke civen here without asking Washington.

SD)
Ha Se nan, he belonys to an organizaticn in favor of
ar ae aid that the Cubans can't rive him 2 visa without the

Out to 11,
| | -has been there.

i udgan ZT don't know what to do with him. I have to wait for
2 answeX {rom washington. SILVIA - we have to wait aleo because his
problem is that be knows no one in Cuba end it's dificult to obtaine ~
visa in these conditions. He ezpacted to process the visa. He know it
iwould take long to process the iussian visa and would wait for it in |
{Cuba and leave from there.for the USSR. IV. — The thing is thst if his
iwife is-now in “ashington she will reczive the visa for returing to
‘Russia. She will receive the visa in @ashington and having the visa
she can sent it to any place “or evample here or any other plaice but
'iyight now she dogsn't have it. SILVIA - Naturally, and we can't give
him a letter of recommendation because xe doy ws Af bis visa will
be approved. IV. - “e will only give the -v; ording to indications.
;Gutructions) SILVIA. - Then that is wha’ ¢ in my plans.

ut
t ither becuase we
LKNY) Ko ‘bother and

gs

|. :0001870 4 a Spee ai

PROBED



13-00000,-.:_ .
x i dEGHE! “ -

_» REPRODUCTION
sreatieire aU" — PRORIBITED

L34-118.-T128- °
0900-2114 hrs.—

= i pregunta po el Cénsul. HD que no
Re .f ;
unas visas para ir a.Odesa. HD que -

est&. HF que necontta <
lame a las once y medi. EF que iiasta que horas. HD le cuelga.

-- 78-=

79- Entrada.- 1038 hrs.- CARH por ODRUBOV. con’ HD en Ruso.—

-- 8h-~

ANDRECOLA .”
le dice que.no.

85- - Entrada.- ¥

® == la maestra-—

90-
93- En’ ROMERO del Instituto Mexicano
Ruso dice que localizar a la. profesora ELENA
ANDRESGO. HD qi
2 -98- 0 la Enbajada de Yuroslavia pide
‘ get. Besa sjador. HD que espore un =
a sobre la invitacién para el...
para @l almwerzo ofrecido por el
dente LOPEZ MATEOS y esposa el dfa
Isabel a las 14:00 hrs. y.desea,
ahs ién. CHTCHEDROV despues, de consul
[-- que con mucho gusto va a asistir.--129—
130-
437- & 235 as (Colonial America) -~

en la Embajada Rusa y
que nefesitan saber en Foo va a ‘Liegar @ Odesa el barco.
ou A321 le pide conade tn Oe wigs. 153-- S. HAN que
1 dees 20 de obtubre de 03:00 a 20}
i aston eB8res del consulado necesiten una
KYsletos del pasaje en ol KALONIA y

REPROOUE Tpke. se

yLlos. SAIOMAN que si, que solo le pres-

_ rae nee ee RT eee pan
a ieleeseealices PASTA

estan

oocis71

ur
eee » ALATRIS’

sfeanonte van 2 @:

iempo, que entonces a ver si les hac:



13-00009

~ SEGSET ©. 4 =
G .

| REPRODUCTI
"RUSSIAN EMBASSY. 15-69-87 . PRORIBI (TED.

1 October 63
1L26-M26-T129

1031 - 2002
-< : £
hs, . In st 1051. Mo fo sae broken Russian. : if
/ Moz . Hellow. I wagGR poe sey Lest Saturday and I talked to = =
your conauf( Sy. Sthat they'd send s telegram to Wa- Bd
saington, end I Wentea to ask you if there is anything new? ¢
MIs I'd like to ask you to call another phone number. . f
Moz Please. : ; LE
Y, MIs Please write it down; and ask for a consul. t

‘ KO; Thank you.
MIs Please.

: Galas



~ SECRET

¢ 4 os
REPRODUCTION

”

= : ie PROHIBITED.

093. - 167

penisa then in Snglish/ ~ xT.
« Russi:
oP phe.

I'm Loosing . 7 9 vise co go to 5

Please, ceil on tl

fa, the consul.

; x
exer CRW nex Sep tho vise taere?

.cat doponés oar conversation. < dou:- know . ..t this”

business. ....se call ths office of the consul am «sk your
questicn.

ask om

yy of tho .<) » again/. ©

/eives nim the number and teli. ..= to ask for the Consul. of
the Soviet Exbassy in Moxieoke .

Mo: Then...

. Yy 7 .
16356 sviption#.. the only inglish ~

u--~ in

..try to remember. ..-- to reca

Hors is 1€ tho names in the Spanic- srenserfp

GCOLETS ~

AS SONU
_* PhOwigmrEy

