# 104-10164-10128

## Page 1

104-10164-10128

OAFDEKTIXE

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET

JH8-2432

DUMPER PAGES:

AMPER ENCLOSURES. Mone

DEFERENCES.

PAN OR PERORI. 28 FRANZE 2960

DISTRITION.

Do com. tons 16-950 wass

Outly on

3(Bant1a80) t1980) 16-23

JAe de Janetro> 16-20

1 (Care) 16-17

SOURCE CIYPTONYMT

APARS

SOURGI, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS.

Mald 113019. 10-205-11

ID NO.

IG NO..

Bubjest Attitade of Intha Anerican Doveranent Loadera

DISH -21.32

TAL

2880265297

# COPY

---

## Page 2

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

DEPOM NO.

li-2132

Lander

NO. OF PAGES I

MENERENOES

ATE OP

Hovember 195)

PLACE &

DATE ACO. Cuba, labana (22 January 1960)

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENI

Member of ND0 (F).

Appra1aa) of Contente

TENTATIVE.

NOT FORGOINO EXPLANATO

During November 1959 several membere of the Cuben Moviniente

Dember ta Criatiano (NiC, Christian Denoesa tie ilovement)

vialtod Peru, Chile, Ernail, and Venezuela In an attempt to obtain

support for the Somation of the HDC. in Cuba.

The Cuban

•Mation wa discussed with top Government leaders in ench

country, all of whon expresed official

opponition to the

present Cuban regime.

They worried about the spread of the influence

o1 Fidel CASIRO, and some vere fearful that he was gaining

mupport within irs masses" in theis on countries. They all

expressed the desire that CASTRO be contained within Cuba.

• personal standpointy however; each

Fran

goverrment Leader, without

meption, was delighted with CASTRO's antics, and said that 1t me

« personal gratification to see soneone so preoccupy the United

Bta tea Government.

10-4-76111

6S COPY

DUTION

201-268277

---

