si eee E ee ee
AOS em pe > 2 eee

secessist eEisrasinse ie CEG i
2 PRODYCTION BY OMMER THAD
URSON UNIT NORD ssepsiessiinte _J f
Pan : :
EAeM enUrA store he

ae ee [starr PRES
fa) He rue. Mba C14 yc foes,. HT

acs [ep Pele, O8@, Qf6[1T mY :

a eal

T 984395

PAGE 64 ; IN 944357 |
—...--TOR:0822422 JUN 76 ee 19536
} SEGRE T 2322202 JUN 76 Starr :
7
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO IAMI,
od I

CESDEW .ESMICA
A)

REFS: A,

i519 Cink G 27052)

= 7 lo ~ 4

B, 19375 (NOT SENT[ [MIANT) fates $9031)
. Ob OL. oO
1. ‘ESMIca-s2 (E68) passen ‘STATION: WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

VERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

OK
ON REF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REpoRT AND(E=68, NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT {MLN) WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO ™ coKrEn

ZIMERI. SaFlE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST 75,

IN PLoT To ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT WAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

OUT 75 SEPTEMBER 75 SUT ZIMERT WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND as RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT,

.. Bx
REPORT AND /E~68 CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

oO. ft
GERALD PATRICK HEMMIN & (No (STATION TRACES), WERE ALSO

INVOLVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

ACQUIRING ARMS» AMONG OTHER THINGS» WHICH FLOWN 70 GUATENALA

ILLEGALLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FYVE (5) REQUESTS

BY LauGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

23 SECRET

Day _ (Gruudemta | Paste,

xX taus



JOTAL COPIES + RUN BY

Le $cc bdISSEM BY. PER ane
_ | Pog ere es
BOn/UNIT NoTiFED, SECRET
Ba-Ance copy-issueoystorreo Preeeara ; STAFF
TION UNIT oe ni 4]
1 L iLagerseeeea Gen sSeed VR. 4 5 sur ieewauressersnesneeneee
N 2 [st
aire li 2 6!
oO
T 981395 ELA767 PAGE B2 i IN 944357
TOR:0622422 JUN 76 \ 19536

Ae IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES,
B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PGEFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY
AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL
AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT To GUATEMALA.
THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN
NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.
7 G+ IS HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-POSSIBLE USE IN
GUATEMALA,
De REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING. i
E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NoT IN STATES LEGALLY. THEY REQVEST HE BE
DEPORTED To GUATEMALA, Essa SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLES4LLY
BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY» 8UT GOG THINKS HIS VISA H&S
EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY.
ae STA TT OW: PLANS DISSEM INFO ON ZIMERI CASE BUT WITHSo7
MENTIONING HEMMINGS BY NAME, PLAN PREPARE MEMO FOR CHARS
AND RSO AND WILL SUGGEST THAT LATTER ATTEMPT ANSWER QUEST2 ONS

FOR LAUGERUD, .
7 OA On
3. AESDEW=4 AND (E-68 ALSO REPORTED 7 JUNE IN SOME DETAIL ON

SOLUTION OF NOVELLA :KIDNAPPING CASE (REF B), THERE POLITICAL

ee OL,
AWMPLICATIONS THIS CASE ALSO So WE DISSEMING. ‘E~68 CLAIMS

SU Pe beuiee au ALEUnELEs SECRET: oO



SECRET

SONUNIT NOTIFIED.

PeeHeettty 7 . oe penne! 7
LE “SEC DSSEM .BY_, > PER TOTAL copies " n@ : :
ty . 7 in . . REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
: ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROMBITED

|
ANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED evar 2 : LISTAFF

TION UNIT i i 4
1 RF. FILE vR . =f--—
N 2
ation» : : 13
fey

T 984395 Er PAGE 83

TOR: 0822:

-THERE AMERICsS =SSSIBLY INVOLVED THIS CASE, ONE FRANK Bu C K

(PRORABLY ID
ow at

BJECT OF 261-0819515, A REGISTERED

\, wit CLAIMS 8E DOCTOR BUT DOES NOT PRACTICE HERE,

HE ALLEGEDLY LS» OF SISTER oF INTELLECTUAL AUTHOR OF NOVELLA

KIDNAPPING PLAN. JoRGE Nso L 0 8 0 DUBON, IN WHICH ANOTHER

LOBO RROTHER, L 0 8 0 DUBON, ALSO INVOLVED.

GA : OF
(E*68 HAS REQUESTED WHATEVER INFO WE MIGHT HAVE ON BUCK, (STATION:

PLANS INCLUDE THAT NAME ALSO IN MEMO TO CHARGE AND RSO BUT WILL

OMIT 1T FROM DISSEM,
/o-4
- 4. FORMIAMTS ONE SOURCE OF INFO ON ZIMERI CASE MAY WELL
on oF o&

HAVE BREEN ESDEW=1, (COS ‘SAW LATTER BY ACCIDENT 8 JUNE, (ESDEW@1
SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN PROVIDING INFO TO GoG ON ZIMERI FOR PAST
SIX MONTHS OR SO AND ADDED THAT TWO AMERICANS INVOLVED WITH
ZIMERT» ONE OF WHOM RUNS A GUARD SERVICE IN MIAMI, HE DID

NOT MENTION NAMES BUT DESCRIBED ONE AS ABOUT SIX FEET FOUR INCHES

o
Aliv WEIGHING ABOUT 232 POUNDS, feneues PLANS RETURN MIAMI WITHIN

TWO WEEKS SINCE IN OVER TWO YEARS HERE HE HAS BEEN UNABLE TO
FIND JOB WITH SUFFICIENT SALARY PERMIT HIM LIVE COMFORTABLY.
5. PLS ADVISE IF YoU CONCUR WITH THIS METHOD OF HANDLING

REQUESTS FOR INFO ON AMERICANS AND OTHER LAUGERUD REQUESTS.

SECRET

IN 944357

CJ 19536


rofar copies RUN BY

# REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THEN
q ISSUING GFFICE 1S PROHIBITED
"SECRET

SEC CISSEM BY, PER

2N/UNIT NOTIFIED,

COPY ISSMEDSLOUIED uy an, i Zz

eat |
t RF. FILE . vR. 4
N :
chon «|= !
a
“T 981395 EIA767_ PAGE 64-04 ——O—~C~S~Sr*N 8S
4e-K
TOR?G822422 JUN 76 {GUAT 19536

: : a3
6. FILE: 201-88195:5, ZIMERI 201-,(35=4-22, E2, IMPDET.

La

Ae oee.

as 6 RET, eo

