# 104-10012-10066

## Page 1

104-10012-10066

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Sect. 2. on back.

Detach back flap

and forward to IP/ADB.

2.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

document to IP/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

1P/

IP/AN

EXT. 4239,

GX-274

GA50

CUBE GIT

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

OFFICER'S

FORWARDED

Chunk

2 D3T 1972

2992

Documont Number 1182-998

for FOlA Review on NOV 1976

C

4.

Elzer

Carol Barr

1 2 0CT 1972

WH/ICA/BUSTOS

9.

DE

ACery Detached

Charlotte pleaders

12.

2017

13.

1P/AN -

OCT

14.

TURE GETT

15.

16.

17.

IP/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED

FORM

6-71

610g

OBSOL

TE PREVIOUS

ANG

R3:33 t

JET

10+13

FLETITLE

(05 the fluriso.:

ROLe id lEVAN, RA G-A-591

PAS file in

201-289248

Thanks

a. Exhooten

617876664

E NUMBER PRIMARY CODE)

1201-289248

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

HMMA 4234

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

10

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SPERET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUAUFIED DESK

CAN JOGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico Cityfi

SUBJECT

TYPIC LNERGO - Transmittal of Memoranda

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: Information only

1.

Transmitted herewith are two memoranda concerning

the request by a

U.S. lawyer to examine some photographs taken

in September and October 1963 of an unidentified American

entering the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. The 18 September 1972

to an interest in the lee harvey o swal background - related

memorandum is from local LNERGO and provides

case . of the

lawyer's request. Our reply, dated 19 September 1972, is self-

explanatory.

2.

It appears likely that the lawyer concerned will pursue

his interest in the photos, and therefore we want you to be aware

of his request.

Document Number

1182-998

for FOlA Review on

NOV 1976

GrOVEr E. CAITHAMER

Attachments:

As stated h/u

Distribution:

Orig.

& 2 - Chief, WHD: (w/atts. h/w)

CROSS REFERENGE

Rat/s

COPX

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 42347

ImPReT

i dide ir erast)

Ne: E 21bh213

DATE

MOS ALA

19 September 1972

201-289248

.:..

---

## Page 3

13-0,0000 •

•.

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. Robert T. Nischwitz

Logal Attaché

FROM

SUBJECT

: John Horton

: LEE HARVEY OSWALD

(105-3702, 9-18-72)

The photographe which your memorandum of

18 September 1972 requested are not in the files of

our office. They may or may not be available in

Washington. If you are interested in pursuing this

matter further, the best bet is to initiate the

request through your Washington liaison office.

Distribution:

original - Addressee

No, 15,406

— Memo Chrono

- Headquarters

Originator:

DATE: 19 September

• 1972

201289248

attss1h4016 464239-42347

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

September 18, 1972

Mr: John Horton

Robert T.

Nischwitz

Legal Attache

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD

(105-3702,

9-18-72)

This document is for the use of your agency only and

neither it nor its contents should be further dis

tributed, nor duplicated within your agency,

without appropriate authorization.

Re your memorandum #15,237, dated May 24, 1972,

In response to my memorandum dated May 15, 1972:

Again, under the

"Freedom of Information Act

Attorney Bernard Fensterwald, Jr. / of Washington, D. C.

has requested "twenty photographs of possible white male?

Americans who had been in Mexico City during September and

October, 1963" which were shown on February 20, 1964 to

Mexican resident Pedro Gutierrez Valencia In an effort to.

determine 1f

Gutierrez might identify any of these unknown

Individuals ab the person he previously identified as Oswald,

whom he clafmed to have observed at the Cuban Embassy, Mexico

City, on October I, 1963.

These twenty photos were received from your office

on February 19, 1964 and all were described as possible

Americans who had visited the Cuban Embassy during September

i a vis rot tho

and October, 1963. Gutierrez failed to identify any of them

as of the person he had seen there on October 1, 1963 and whom

he belleved to be Oswald.

Also furnished to this office with

the aforementioned twenty photographs were the three photos

Enclosures 2.

SECRET

Not airs

a y 22/010

GROUP 1*

Excluded from autornatle

downgrading and

declassification.

US UN

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SEGRET

of the individual who visited the Russian Embassy, Mexico

City, on October I and 4,

1963, as referred to in my

memorandum of May 15, 1972. Those same three photos

were also

previously furnished us by you on November 23, 1963.

The twenty photos referred to above are not now

available in files of this office and they may have been

returned to your office after they were displayed to Gutierrez

Valencia.

t is requested that you advise it the twent

photographs are presently available in your office, and:

If not, where they may be presently located.

In the event they are available through your

office, can they be made public?

Enclosed to assist in expediting your reponse are

copies of your memorandum, May 24, 1972, and my memo,

May 15, 1972.

2

201289248

---

