i04-0116-40223
:

MA UNVORMA'TION COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS, INC. (INCA)

a 1. INCA is an anti-Communist propaganda organization
With headquarters in New Orleans, that disseminates Kuglish

wn language propaganda tapes and ‘Lilws on @ world=

wide basis, conducts public forums of un extremist

politicul nature, etc. The organizational impetus aud funds

upparently come .from wealthy New Orleans figures including

Alton OCHSNER, of the OCHSNER CLINIC, and Willard L.

E a In recent years funds have been supplied by the
SCHICK SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY. An INCA letterhead listing all
the vfizicers and officials has been requested trom JMWAVE,
which has had some casual correspondence with the organiza—
tion concerning Miss Juanita CASTRO,

2. There is no indication of any Agency relationship
INCA prior to January 1965 when INCA sponsored Miss i
's appearance in New Orleans. At that time
sno functioned as Miss CASTRO's business manager was
involved with INCA officials in planning the New Orleans
visit where Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dinner
spensored vy INCA. The dinner, which was attended by civic
@ leuders and representatives of all news media, took place
suortly uiter Miss CASTRO's defection and there was
cousiderable interest in her appearance. INCA was particularly
juterested since it had distributed hundreds of English
aud Spanish language tapes containing her stutements when
Sue was surfaced in Mexico. In October 1966 INCA again
requested that Miss CASTRO appear as a guest speaker in
major American cities in connection with tie release of
ihe INCA motion picture production "HITLER IN HAVANA",
Fuilowing various reviews of the film, JMWAVE decided the
iilm would probably becdme controversial and it would be
inudvisable to permit Miss CASTRO to accept tice invitation.
Because of INCA's extremist political orientution, JMWAVE
Las wanted tg_avoid any more involvement between Miss CASTRO
24 and INCA and in his capacity as business
manager, as managed to prevent this tyThere hus been only
one casund contac between and Edward BU'PLER,
Inceulive Vice-President of INCA, ice Miss CASTRO's 1905
New Ord s trip. This took place recently when BUTLER was
in le ¢ 4 promoting the "HITLER IN HAVANA" film.

wit

3. According to JMWAVE, INCA officials have never
ted in any way that they are aware of Agency
of Miss CASTRO or her business agent, and there
is no andication that INCA officials have had any official
@. contact with Agency officers.

indic

RETURN TO CIA .
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


© fe wUTLo: Gi.rugraph 7 (A) of reference memorandum)
7 » :

ln January 1965 Subject's organization (INCA), sponsored
tue New Urleans appearance of Juanita CASTRO shortly after
her arrival in the US. INCA had a particular interest in
Miss CASTRO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contain—
ing Miss CASTRO's declarations when she was suriaced in
Mex ree 24 who is Miss CASTRO's business manager,
nandled the anning and arrangements for the New Orleans

acat aL ‘A officials. The only subsequent contact
cet wes EH and Edward BUTLER occurred when
BUiLEK was reccatly in Miami promoting the INCA film on

“CASTRO-HITLER ii HAVANA". See Attachment 2 for a summary
of the INCA organization.

Wy

afy

