# 104-10119-10142

## Page 1

104-10119-10142

SEUNET

'28

May 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: HUNT, E. Howard

$ 23 500

1. On 15 April 1976 the Japanese Communist Party (JCP)

held a press conference in Tokyo and distributed a

"handout"

containing Subject's name as one of many U.S. Government

officials alleged to be affiliated with the CIA. Although the

JCP named some bona fide Agency employees, many were bona fide

State Department employees or employees of other government

agencies who had previously been listed in Who's Who in CIA.

2. The purpose of this memorandum is to document the

security files of those Agency,employees named by JCP as being

formerly assigned to the

J plus those State Depart-

ment employees for whom a security file exists.

It should be

noted that the Directorate of Operations is currently in the

process of formally notifying those Agency employees formerly

assigned to

lof their inclusion in the JCP list.

For complete details concerning the JCP exposure, the

reader is referred to a memorandum dated 6 May 1976, subject:

Exposure of CIA Personnel, which is located in the security file

of the same title, #601 818, Volume VIII. Cited memorandum 13-3

treated those Agency employees currently assigned to the

and contains pertinent cables relating to the JCP

exposure.

4. Comments: Retired GS-15 Ops Ofticer

(30 Apr70) ; assigned to Japan 1954-56. Listed

In ClA von A-Z (Montiuedeo) ; much WATERGATE.

notoriety.

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Mishal 5i

Michael E. Schneeberger

Security Analysis Group

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 007472 35D

---

