# 104-10173-10013

## Page 1

104-10173-10013

21-

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA

THIS DOCUMENT HAS DISK

APPROVSO FOR RSULACE

ON 42144

2?

am i soot

DENYUNUR panding openin

15-5

Outer of Station, Busel

SECREI

Roomlt of lure 1.

REPEARICES:

20B48306

80001 6546

For lour Inl

NOT 194

Jason?

*tars troos on

P7180122a Post Sessios

1029 at

Co on lay 24, 196

Walt the sovlot Unraay yus sot

13 X ses do sl Docenber 1955. restau

§reat, London, li. Jo

$ 8321

RESENT MIGROFILE SERVICE!

WITH t

yu called

na t1

anton eittem, born on 12 d

port ninter 650545, luoued at

In London to obtata a visa to

alf as en mateur Jouralle

ut to Carson Hotel, Clarge

ng to her, van to expand ad strangthen the Elted Battony, en

to for a borld doveransul

otose a enter, or as as to eat te to ta bored

One wri

Fran 9 5?

2017102798

FORM NO. 51-29

BUI

1$49

2 inde 5-1

813R

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

NI COPY

DISPATSA NO. [088e15och

talk with legal exporto, to attend court cases, and to violt elaanes at tha

Univeralty of Hosoow, She further atatod that as an anstour journallat ahe

hoped to cover a story, previoualy unreparted lu the lest, and alse treoe

the case historles of one or more of the soldiera formerly stationed 1a

Anstrla tho mere then being denobillied. she Identifled her newspaper outlet

as the Morth Anerioan Henspaper Alllance, 229 Weat hind street, Hen Jork CIty.

5.

On October 21, 1955, the Department of State muthorised the Babaaay

to validato subject's pasaport for traval lo fusaia providins Soviet permisaion

to enter that country mas grented.

On Moranber 17, 1955, subject presented a

lotter Dron the Russian Inhassy, London, wilch notilled her that her vian to

Runsis had bean received.

Thereafter, on November 22, 1955, har pasaport

was validatad for travol to Bussia.

6. The dato of the ODKIVY Information 10. 21 Jamary 1956,

la Bo Paragraph 3, BACTRESS reporte that the World Student Federalista

le an organisation unich 1s a part of the World Association of World Federal

18ter

The boald Students Federaliata 1u liberal but not cosidered leities,

and ita purposo is as mentioned above.

It was founded in 19h7 and bas ita

headquarters 1n Anaterdan.

BUACTRESS haa no record of Subjeotis notivitios

withla this organisation.

19 July 1957

WE/2/JStein/hb

Digtribution:

15-5 Brusse1a)- 2

WE/2

RI

8 g

by

JOHN STEIN

610000

•!!.

releasine officer

Ccordinating officer

..03

ws/2/erusse3915-5

Authenticating Officer

i.i?

4/BR

---

