# 104-10221-10039

## Page 1

104-10221-10039

STURGIS, Frank Anthony

JAN 69 -

6Ü01-94285

VOL.V

JAN 677

I of II

1016:0

---

## Page 2

33-1

D

oMFO

SEAST

he assaut

STATE

meriz?

014, 613/E6 2

INFO IMMEDIATE

7O:: IMMEDIATE

UNINTEL ZIBET Y

REF:

35610 TIN 4574640C83ING RELAYED

1• APPRECIATE REF.

STURGIS HAS BEEN PROMOTING ASTORD AC /GA

INVOLVING A 2,000-MAN CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE IN ANGOLA, FOR

SEVERAL MONTHS AND WE EXPECT THAT REF IS A VARIATION OF THE SAME

THEME. DO NOT ANTICIPATE NECD FOR ADDITIONAL DEBRISFING BY ZIBE

OFFICER # OR FURTHCA COMTACT WITH SUBSELT REE OY

?: SOLICIT ADDEE COMMENTS.y

3. NO TILE: EZ IMPDET-N

ORIG: AF/HC/C

X93547: COORD: LA/COGE DE/IB/P

P. C/AF/OPS | 7: AUTH: C/AF

REL: C/E/ASE

DATE: 29 SEPTEMBER 1977

ORIG:"

ISLS

UNIT: AF/HE/E

EXT.

LA/COGI

E/IB/p-

C/AF/HE

C/AF/OPS

_CIN DRAFTS

{TELECOORDI

295EP7T

264-6242256

C/AF

41/T77×716AF8N

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 035769

SECRETI

FORM

---

## Page 3

CARLA BEC DIRDEM BY 22 ven-

AGTIO

AF 9

ACTIONVe

VI DDO SAN

TOTAL COPIES

7вee numor

SE 08 GT

крані

##PRODUCTION

POSUING ORRIE

STA PRECEDENC

21 17 07

EDWA2 52

PAGE 01

10812920132 SER 27

SECRET 2919100 SEP 77 STAM MANUINE WIRE ON

LAtE

CITE

35:010

TOS. IMMEDIATE CIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE

NI ACT. DI RECTOR

WNINTEL Z10ET

ON 29 SEPT 7I AT 1030 HOURS LOCAL ONE

WHO ICENTIFIC INSEL AS A BRITISH SUBJECT WHO WAS BORN

IN CHANNESSURS,

SOUTH AFRICA ON 25 MAY 1936 AND WHO SAID

HE IS A LITERDÃY AGENT BY PROFESSION AND RESIDES AT 62.

REDKROM HULKO SPELSEAS

SA-S. LONDON WALKED INTO UNS, MISSION.

SUBJECT HO IS STAYING AT HOTEL AMAT 1ML

ORIGINALLY.

CONTACTED DEM SORENSON WHO ASKED THAT COS INTERVIEW HIM.

?. SUBJECT SAVE THE FOLLOMING STORY WHICH ARMITTEDLY APPEARS

DISUCINTED BUT MOY MAKE SENSE TO AFRICA DIVISION. ONE REASON

FOR INCOREPENCY IS THAT SUBUECT WAS CONCERNED ABOUT THE

STURY LEAKING TO OUTSIDERS T.E, THE PRESS AND WAS VERY RETICENT

. ABOUT NAMING NGMES OR DATES:

IN QUIE 1977 FRANK STURGIS SPRESUMAGLY SAME PERSON OF

WATERGATE FAME, COME TO LONDON AND CONTACTED AN_ =

UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER UF FNLA.

THROUGH LATTER, STURGIS

SECRET

IN 417464

301

---

## Page 4

TOTAL COPES

SE CAET

ARPRODUCTION

OTHER T

STAFF

ACTION

т ÷11787

EI A232

PAGE 02

TOR: 2920152 S68X22A

HOPED TO MEET HOLDEN ROBERTO:

SUBJECT LEARNED OF THIS

APPROACH AND SINCE SURVECT SAYS HE IS A CLOSE FRIEND

AND SUPPORTER OF DANIEL GIPENDA, HE PUT STURGIS IN TOUCH

WITH VICTUR FERNANDEZ, SUBJECT SAYS THAT AT THAT TIME

HE DID NOT KNON WHO FRANK STURGIS WAS.

8 °

VICTOR FERNANDEZ WAS IDENTIFIED AS ONE OF THE PERSONS

INVOLVED IN THE ABORTIVE COUP OF MAY 1877 IN ANGOLAS

STURGIS TOLD FERNANDEZ THAT HE REPRESENTED A GROUP OF

CUBAN EXILES AND WAS IN A POSITION TO MAKE AVAILAGLE ERDO

ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS WHU WOULD' GO TO ANGOLA TO PARTICIPATE

IN ANOTHER COUP TO OVERTAROW THE CURRENT ANGOLAN REGIME.

STURGIS AND FERNANDEZ REPORTEDLY SIGNED AN AGREEMENT

IN LONDON WHERGEY STURGIS PLEDOED FINANCIAL

AND MILITARY

SUPPORT ACCORDING TO SUBJECT AFROM SOME LATIN AMERICAN

GOVERNMENTSI AND AGREED AS TO HO

THE NEW MEMgERS OF THE GOVERN.

MENT IN EXILE TIE, ANGOLAS WOULD BE.

D. GIPENDA, WHO AT THE TIME WAS IN LONDON. WAS SUSPICIOUS

OF STURGIS BUT WENT ALONG WITH FERNANDEZ! GETTING HELP FROM

STURG19. GIPENDA THEN WENT TO GENEVA WHERE HE HAS BEEN EVER

SINCE IN AMAT HOTEL, GIPENDA HAS BEEN WAITING AROUND, ACCORDING

SECRET

1N 317464

133620

---

## Page 5

968#

OI608M

SEGRET

RODUCTION

Mind OrricE

PHONE

STAFT

T 211787.

PAGE, 03

10 R: 29201525 SEP: 77

IN 427464:

3561,0

TO SUBJECTO TO SPEAK TO MOBUTU, WHO AS HOS KNOWS IS CURRENTLY

IN SWITZERLANDOS

SUS JEGT, SAID THAT THE GIPENDA/MOBUTU TALK

WILL FAKE PLACE IN NEXT PEN DAYS.

MEANWHILE GIPENDA AND SUBJECT AND POSSTELY OTHERS NAVE RUN

UP A 600028 FRANC CUSS 25, 202) HOTEL BILL AT AMAT HOTEL AND

EVIDENTLY THE HOTEL MANAGEVENT PLANS TO CALL THE POLICE IN

THE NEXT DAY OR SO IF BILL IS NOT PAID.

F. SUBJECT BROUGHT WITH HIM A FILE OF XEROXED DOCUMENTS

IN A: LOOSE LEAF NOTECOOK WHION HE FLEETINGLY

EXHISITED, THERE WERE SÉVERA PHOTOS OF SUSJECT IN

CAMOUFLAGED JUNGLE DRESS IN A JUNGLE, A PHOTO OF A PERSON

SIMILARLY DRESSED WHUM SUBJECT IDENTIFIED AS FERNANDEZ AND

LISTS OF EQUIPSENT AND OTHER MATERIAL WHICH SUBJECT SAID HAS

SENT BY SOVIETS TO CUBAN FORCES IN ANGOLA: ACCORDING

TO SURVECT, THIS INTELLIGENCE WAS SENT OUT 3Y MPLA MEMBERS

STILL IN ANGOLA,

G. SUBJECT SAID THAT ANOTHER COUP AGAINST ANGOLAN GOVERNMENT

IS CURRENTLY BEING PLOTTED AND.!

IF SUCCESSFUL, PLOTTERS WANT

GI PENDA®TO BE THE NATIONAL LEADER AND NOT HOLDEN ROBERTO.

SUBJECT APPEARS STRONGLY ANTI-HOLDEN ROBERTO AND SAVIMBA,

SECRET

---

## Page 6

AFF

1: 3117 07

62 4052

PAGEAOS

TOR02920152 SEP427

IN 817560

39610

N. SUBJECT DID NOT MAKE ANY PLTCH TOR POREY OR ANY OTHER REQUEST

BUT SAID ME WOULD LIKE SOMEONE FROM WASHINGTON WHO HAS FAMILIAR

WITH ANGOLAN MATTERS TO COME TO

SOONEST TO SPEAK HITH

GIPENDÀ IF WE WANTED TO LEARN MORE.

3.-

IN RESPONSE TU COST QUESTION, SUBJECT SAID HE WAS NOT A

MERCENARY BUT HE WANTED AS A FORMER SOUTM AFRICAN TO SEE

CURRENT ANGOLAN REGIME THRONN CUT ALONG WITH THE CUBANS.

IN SPITE

OF SUBJECT'S STATEMENT THAT ME DOES NOT WANT ANY MONEY OR DID HE

COME TO MISSION TO SELL INFORMATION, IT IS DEVIOUS SUBJECT AND

GIPENGA ARE OUT OF MONEY,

SUS JECT WENT TO EXCERTIONAL LENGTHS TO

BE ASSURED THAT ABOVE INFORMATION HOULD NOT LEAK, HE APPEARS TO BE

A VERY WELL-EDUCATED, COHERENT, SOFT-SPOKEN INDIVICUAL IN SPITE

OF THE FOREGOING STORY. HE IS ABOUT 6 FEET THRES INCHES TALL.

215 POUNDS, DARK BROWN HAIR HORS STYLISHLY LONG, LONG FACE, CLEAN

SHAVEN, SMUKES ERITISH CIGARETTES, AND SPEARS aLTH EITHER A SOUTH:

AFRICAN OR AUSTRALIAN ACCENT

COS TOLD SUBJECT THAT HE WOULD PASS ALONG SUBJECT'S STORY

BUT IT WÄS HARDLY LIKELY THAT ANYONE WOULD COME FORWARD TO PAY

A $25,000 HOTEL BILL, COS SAID HE HAD HEARD OF FRANK STURGIS BEFONE

AND IT APPEARS THAT HE MAY HAVE SOLD FERNANDEZ AND SUBJECT À BILL

SECRET

---

## Page 7

TOTAL COPE®

SECRETS

RESTING

STARE

IT 221207

EI AG52

PAGE 105-05

TOR: 2920152 SEP Z2

OF GODSONO COMUTMERAS ORMANY PROMISSOR ERE MADE TO SUBJECT MOR

DID SUGUEGE ATTEMPT TO ASCERTAIN COSUS IDENT KRYOR NATURE OF MIS

HORK.

130

WOULD APPRECIATE ASAP, HES SVALUATION OF SUBJECTAS

STORY AS SKETCHY AND DIS JOINTED AS IT SOUNDS O

MOS HAS LE DIVISION OFFICER IN NEAROY COUNTRY WHO FAMILIAR

•HITH ANGOLAS ADVISE IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEND HIM TO:

FOR FURTHER LEERIEFING OF SUBUECT.

6..

FILE DEFER.

E2 IMPDET

35010

S E

CRE

---

## Page 8

SICRET:

16 June 1976

SUBVECT: LORDIZ, Liona Narita

1a As the result of an article on Subject in the 13 June 1976

New York Dally News, woo vas asked to do a fite chech to deteming

sher Subject was ever comected with the Aseney. According Lo

check, TP traco, Cl/On and Security office check, twuNz

has never been erployed by thie, Agency

not interest phonever, 'is the

fact, that

was granted a (SC on 14 July

1955, Initiated by finance Division, as a witting employce.

At

that time Valerte was an employce of the National Pank of Mashington:

2. There are several reforences, sourced to the rei and let

LORUNZ is a setf-admitted forner girt friend of fidel CASTRO. She:

claims that she met Fidel while on a trip to Cuba with her father;

Captain of the North German Lloyd Line, in February 1959, hocume

infatuated with rider and stayed in cuba.

She served as fidel's,

mistress and came to the U.S. wich ridel's party in April 1959.

Flie

learned at that time

that she was pregnant by lume Marita returned

to Havana a short time thereafter and hadia miscarriage.

She clains

that she was drigged and taken to a hospital where an abortion tas

performed, Pocause of Fidel's reaction to the pregnancy, she turied

against hiin.

LORENZ returned to the U.S. from Cuha on 9 Decenher 1959:

Because of the bad abortion operation performed on LORENz in fuha

in September 1959, LORENZ was-operated-on-by a Dr. Manniar on 20-

January 1960 at the Roosevelt Hospital in New York City.

1.3019:

+ 200

---

## Page 9

3. It is sald that LORINZ appeared on the Today s Show on 14

June 1976. She reportelly made the scateuent that she tas assounted.

with Frank STURGIS, and that she had placedi some polson pills in

her face crean for the purpose of assassinating Fidel. A 4' April

1961 FBI document states that on.8 January 1961 LORENZ, STURGIS, Mex.

POlK? vero to nect that, cucnins and attempt a inity meeting of

anti-Castro Cubans The wilty mect ins sas sponsored by luis cONTi

Aguero, one of the icading anti-castro Oilans:

Set have uncovered nothing

to date concerning an assassination attempt (in this councut long)

LA/ COG/ CIOS

CC: tol

for showing to the 1G

N.B. COMINT by Ql Septonker 1977:

---

## Page 10

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

CONFIDEUTIAL

SUSE ONLY

PRIVACY ACT REQUEST

SUNCH 1OC

Freak Sturges

Mile 26

2641

COMMENTS CA

CO. LEGRET

16-P-1062

30 mл2

DDO/PIC Attns

CIs.

TUbe HT-T 1D4127

• LOi

er ora conventions

інтрист івоук.

sam.

Нині на Сту

with whom me are

wet ine sup line,

we and los to cores

Ve The requisten inth

0dc in the the

No record of subject(s)

No info identifiable

with subject (s)

See attached memorandum

40 does for possible

reléasa... dues dol file

rewiewed

RETURN TO:

PRIVACY ACT REQUEST

+ 1999888893

TRAU

---

## Page 11

Core

151801

Thornet on tarly Concil sater

Contest 1a-04

Bes'luston, 2.E.

• 1g

Does 1o/

23loos

Coroso oneselaine

desolated in

ores cosco

notes 0n012nco

oro to a rsados of aromation conces for costoo

at: tho

doct

nection lo recesses

107J- CLO

852

not cons

mid tomor

and

i sures

POTUS Be

considerations:

The Suot of then 1tx

tho proper accops cones,

eccutton of a conguter asurch le

aricule nor cooll:"

Ind too eccord

•In chat in liont of the controverslat notuse of my best, e wolvor or reduct/ol

of charges nu conduce te the dustles

mes on the bustie intercol.

I therehose

rossectfully ronuent that tleso Enctors he constilered in the seitas of a declolon

as to die cost of sontlcos.:

In conillanca with you rousse for laoreity vcrillcation & pursusat to

address, my dato do nott do placat

for your cooperations an

STATE OF FLORIDA

COUNTY OF DALE

Befriro mo

personally, anocared.

Frank Sturgis to me well knoun and

knohn:.

to me to be the person de-

scribed in and who executed the fore-

going instrument for the purposes

thercin expressed:

winess my ianü aù virivi

ocat

this l9th day of Max: A.D. 1976.

Nulady Public,

state of Florida

at Large

My cornisa

on

spires ain

Sowxs trulti

Freak Stungto,

Freix":

Frat!:

onlorint

Anthony set

Polo

- Fren!

Fren! Dorrellt

Fraal: Cr:?3a11

Endering

3r62205

Sensor an

soul l decrises 1026

In "orio!:,

cited at sor o irerleon el:

sil

---

## Page 12

0B4 011192.3173/03 45322

8lc0 2012231

0062-1905

9 06

7.965

c. 2000

1050-1

952

2253

195!

1.

5

3

.-?

061

atton: 390916

9020540

Ingelo

Stone

Alosa

sto: io

3085.

387309,

Garantoro

dal sita

artno Corpo Coscuro

Сто вок?

onoralle

-lanmiit."

Deline Ore.

036011

des: caliSta, ote.

Jotnad Morfola Colica Jesto

attendes 1.W45s 2ad

corsa collose

Alno atterled 25e

coletechate Incele

no senoser of the virgin

Taverg 9:

Phot 100

D:20ot

1242-0au10301*

oh oner end marager o.

The

it tenoren

Tayern on Boot linla Strsse

ontated in tue doge inval Rsecrve

nt the

TortolE

"lr Stition.

о 0 16 12

prelunt latine cravolitng to end fe

Furono

11:30

a acationed in Comeny

onorante dincherro:

Viscinte!

Besch

calier ilento?

Floriang

Onand, Condiresg 30:a9a 13% -

Gusteral-"

3ant!aco, 81:37

1950:

T06r-0070:

Dy 0: 2123

di: control osclear 3r: Jc=1

---

## Page 13

* 32

and C!

A2 Susineas Conerasion gord) l'aaico nad

ond: 11005

19700800

June:

$90

0970

3979-1075

323060. 00

707452873

091:190

40T0

37¢

3 co, sundlas

3 CuMộn M100 of 3l:

artion Anato do Densurg, Coga

str. Force

Sour eat Come Wan

10 Co T3»

Rantro, onto Cloakes

For Cong neater

Minch, Lortch

Nonua

Mats Stuni

Fronk utarclo

STATE OF FLORIDA

COUNTY OF DADE

Before me personally appeared Frank sturgle to me well known

and known to me to be the person described. In and who executed

the foregoing instrument for the purposed therein expressed.

WiTness

my hand and official seat thie 19th day of May, A.D.

1976.

Notary Public, State of

at Large:

192

My commission expires.

Florida

03:13

---

## Page 14

16 44

Ha 13

ofrica of saulie Tara

2941:26

Central Intelligence

trnglez,

Arciala.

13

6: 33367

So tafonzaston foruent

Into etces

Corputcetzod

Informntlos dcht

8CC

arentrent Gublic Lou

pro curca ntionleted

sclerences

Siereto.

T7CS

soanch

Tride

Sture for Drau!

no no or cored:

no you for your anu copperation.

Very truly yours,

Frank Sturete

--formerly, Pranis Floring

---

## Page 15

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON. D.C.

20505-

TO

Director

Federal Burcau of lures tigation

Attention:

Intelligence Division

FRON

SUBJECT:

REF

Deputy Director for Onerations:

Frank STUrGiS

CIR-316/01746-77

125%

According to a sourse of

the

Tricld Office

of the Domestic collection Di vision,

subject discloscus

to

the source the tollosing intormation concerning plans

which allesodly reflect Subjcet's interest

and

Panama in conversations held on or aroundS June 1977

Subject has discussed plans to establish a Cuban Govern-

ment in exile on Angolan soil with the help of Holden.

ROBERTO, FNLA:

Subject is prepared on recoipt of agree:

nont

from Roberto to provide food, medical teams and

other forms of

assistance to the ENLA. Ostensibly, this

would be

a first

step following recognition by Roberto

of a Cuban

Exile Gore mment.

This government would then

atteings

to raise troops ants

among other things, capture 15

many Castro soldiers

as possible in order to

use them as

in exchange or trade

instrument.

The finds for such an

cuterprise ostensibly would come from Cuban Communities in

Brazil, Nicaragua, Panama, Mexico,

Venezuela and the United

States.

One aspect of the proposed unconventional war is.

the

use of counterfeit Angolan money,

Aiso attenedly

involved is planning to secure Angolan and for Panamani ins

who oppose Torrijos

Involved in inspecified ways in these plans are

the following:

a .

Leoncll GONEZ International Coordinator,

Afro-Cuban Committec (appenis to he

inactive

at present;

formerly involved in the Cuban

Exile Morement)

b. Dr. Alida REINOSO

c. - (FNU) SOTOLONCO

d.

Nerwin

SIGALE - Columnist

for an

afteroon news-

paper

CLASSIFIED BY

S1GNTH

EXENT FADO LENE iNC: 95 i91600

§ sEeds 889 1so do lt9 Poole o

Date impossible to determi.

peral-se

0.8.

dies

01900

---

## Page 16

SUNJICT. FraNk STURGISE

Stanley TAYLOR Leedss United Kingdom:

allegedy an associate of Roberto

Colin TAYLOR: An unclo of Stanley Taylor

The source has expressed an extremo ront of Physical

retributionshould his diselosurcs.become-knownfand.a

dis inclination to convey his information diroctly to other

agencies

CIR- 316/02820-27

---

## Page 17

SUrGECT: Frank STURGIS

Distribution.

Orlg

Addressee

PCS/LSN:

OS/Redman

Case: 65889

Into

Congrod

FB I/LSN.

LA. Division

OSG. Chronos

Gene Lacy. - 10 August: 1977

---

## Page 18

SECRET 1213303 MAY 77 STARE

CITE DCP:

14036

TOS DCD/-HEADQUARTERS.

TOS

C.SO

WHITEL

SUBJ3

FRANK STURGIS

TELECON OF II MAY 1977

IS A MIAMI-BASED ADVENTURER AND

BECDUCER O SEMI-DOCUMENTARY MOVIES HO HAS OCGASTO NALL

VOLUNTEERED INFORMATION TO THE

HEIS ACQUAINTED. WITH

FRANK STURG IS•:

ON I1 MAY 1977 MORGAN TELEPHONED THE

AND IMPARTED THE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING.

2..

WITHIN THE PAST FEW DAYS, STURGIS SAID: IWAT NE (STURBIS)

MAD. BEEN, APPROACHED TO

ORGANIZE TRAINING FOR 200 PANAMANIAN

DISSIDEMTS 10 OCCUR IN COSTA RICA•

TRAINING WOULD LAST. 30

DAYS AND WOTED BE PART OF A LARGER ANTI-TORRIJOS EFFORT.

HE PROVIDED NO FURTHER GETAILS.

STURGIS ALSO SAID HE WAS NOW ASSOCIATED WITH THE

"AFRO-CUBAN. COMMITTEE"

POSSIBLY A NEW GROUP, WHICH HAS

AYCIG ITS GOALS, COALESCING CUBAN EXILE ÓPPOSITTON TO CASTRO:

ACTIVITIES IN AFRICAD

STURGIS SAID THE GROUP INITIALLY IS

SESKING 30 MEN FOR SERVICE OF SOME SORT IN ANGOLA AND LAIRE.

IN THIS RESPECT, STURGIS WILL DEPART SOON FOR LONDON AND:

BRUSSELS.

PRAVK

WE SHOULD NOTE THAT

JAREA: ABOUNDS IN STORISS ABCUT

PURPORTING TO CRIGINATE WITH STURGIS.

HAVE,

HOWEVER, NO REASON

IC DOUBT STURGIS ACTUALLY SAID TRESE

MINOS TO CORGAN.

5. SOME OF

FILM PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES TAXE HIM

Har 12 1 5900*77

---

## Page 19

PAGE 2 D CD/

14056 SECRET

TO UNUSUAL PLACES OR LEAD TOM UNUSUAL PERSONAL ASSOCLAL OUS.

HE HAS AN OVERR ID ING CONCERN THAT HE MIGHT AT SOME POINT.

IDENTIFTED: AS A POLICE INFORMANT ALDE THEREFONE WILL. NOT

TALK TO THE LEBLO

HENNAS ALSO ASKED US TO REFRAIN FROM DOZNO

SO IN MATTERS AFFECTING HIMS?

NC NETHELESS.

SOME, OF THIS SHOULD BE PASSED TO THE

FBI:

WE CAN TRY AGAIN TO PERSUADE MORGAN TO DEAL WITH THE

PORE RESPONSIBLE AGENCY•

ALTERNATIVELY, WE WOULD RECOMMEND

PASSAGE OF SUBSTANCE AT MEADQUARTERS LEVEL•

22 IMPDET

CL BY 011668

SSCRE

---

## Page 20

SECRET (7IS00L SEP 16 STAFF

CITE, DED.

133231

TOS DCD/HEAD QUARTERS

TOS

OPERAT IONS SERVICES GROUP/OSA (FRENCH) FROM HENNESSEY

WNINTEL

SUBJ 8.

ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

REF 3 DED/HEADQUARTERS 16628, 1 SEPTEMER 1976, SAME SUS.JECT

Ser V?

ADVISED US THAT FRANK STURGIS APPARENTLY DEPARTED

FOR WASHINGTOND D.C., WHERE HE INTENDED TO TURN SUBJECT MATERIA

OVER TO THE STARF OF

SENATOR HOWARD BANER ON 2 SEPTEMBER 12760

STURGIS THEN INTENDED TO GO TO NEW YORK CITY.

011668

De IMPET CL BY

SECRE

---

## Page 21

5r/5./9

SECRET CRIESOZ AUG 26 STARF

CITE DCO

TOg

PRIORITY DED/ HEADQUARBERS.

TOB OPERATIONS SERVICES CROUP/OS

FROM HENNESSEY

WHINTEL

SUBUS ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL:

BER → HENNESSEY

TELECON, 23 AUGUST 197G, SAME SULJECT

WE RECEIVED A CALLER OM

THIS IS, TO CONFIRM TRENCE TELECON ON 23 AUGUST 1976.

WU WHICH KE"

RICATED THAT HE HAD HAD A VISIT ON THE SAME DATE BY FRANK

STURG IS.

STURGIS HAD TOLD|

TINAT HE HAD JUST RETUPIED TO

FROM NEY YORK CITY.

WHERE, HE HAP, DECE ZI ERULENES, FOR

THE "TUDORROY SHOUT

THIS INTERVIED WAS SUPPOSED TO

HAVE BEEN TELEVISED AT DIUS HOURS, ZA AUGUST, BUT WAS NOT.)

STUIGIS SAID THAT WHILE IN NEW YONX HE HAD STAYED THE

WEEKEND RESUMOLD CHARD LEAGUSES YORK MARITA LORENZ.

WHO STUNGUS SOMETIME AGO PUBLICLY CLAIMED TO HAVE HIRED TO

POISON CUBAN PRIME MINISTER FIDEL CASTRO.

LORENZ GAVE STURGIS

A BOOK CONTAINING CRYPTOGHARKIC MATERIAL THAT SHE SAID SHE HAD:

ST CLEN EROM THE ALBANIAN MISSION IN NEW YORK.

MORGAN WAS

SHOWN MACHINE COPIES DE THREE OR FOUR PAGES OF THIS MATERIAL,

WHICH CONSISTES:

OF RIVE DIGIT NUMERICAL GROUPS IU SERIES AC-OSS

AS IF A DECODING RETA TON HAS BEEN PETORETS PUNY AD

MORGAN IHAT HE HAS DISTRIBUTED

_PAGES OF THE BOOK I VAR LOUS

PLACES IN MIAMI FOR SAFEKDERING UNTIL HE CAU TURN ALL OF IT

OVER TO SQUATON HOWARD BAKER.

A CALL TO BAKER'S STAFF ON 23 AUGUST.

GUST'S STUCES TOLD HAD PLACEO

LORENZ HAD GIVEN HIM THE BOOK BECAUSE ONE OF HER MAFIA CONTACIS

IN NEW YORK FRIED TO BLACKMAIL HER COR SOME REASON UNKNOWN TO

LORGAN CY COORSELVEELO AND SUSSCQUENILY BEAT HER SEVERELY AND

TFREATENED HER LIFZ.

AS A RESULT, SHE NO LONGER UNITED ANI

PART OF THE CREPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL.

IN QUESTION.

STURGIS.

2ROMISED' TO GET II INTO OFFICIAL U.S.

GOVER 12I

Haths.

E2 IMPOET. CL 9Y 011655

SECHEI

---

## Page 22

SECRET

1223 AuBut 19762

MEMORANDU FOR TIS RECORD

SUBJECT.

call from

STURGIS:

ot DCD Concerning Frank

by hia DCD"

Tho following Information was proysdod to

Even to tho DeD flico on 23 August.

The intormation we

our co bya contact (not identifted

20:23 August who obtainod it from Oscar FREELY. FREELYSE

r11 oka book on Frank STURGIS:

200.

STURGIS 1s torapponr on tho Tomorrow Show at 2,0.m.

on 24 August.

which testo be parrated by tom Selinet dor

STuRciS just rocontly roturned tol

in New York.

"fom tapink the show

obtained wron hor N

While in New York STURGIS saw Marita LORENZ and

book which,

necording to sourco,

appenred

to bo cryptographic mtorint and socnod to rolato to Albanta.

The DCD sourco saw a' "fow coples" of what he doscribed as

"mathematicol matrix" materlal,

STURGIS currontly (todny = 23 August) 1e attempting

to contact Senator Bakor

tố turn ovor

tho material to him.

DCD plans to ask the source to monitor the

situation and adviso

whother the matorial to tact is turnod ovor to Bakor

file

IN/ COG/CIOS:

201- 242256

STURGIS

Told

A000. +

- lee wili do

.. 8/73

---

## Page 23

18 - 21032

FADORIDA NOTIRITO

ADIANA: GOFT JAURU BLOTTER.

CLAS

T 374006

80A00S

moschie,

211.20

ADMIN INTERNAL USEONGY

• AL

018/tn) 000, 0/LSW/1D

PAGE 03-01

-TOR S503412 NOV 74

STATE MESSAGE

MC-ALLES

N H5112

PRECES CE

• 1503202 NOV 74

FM

DIRECTOR:

• F81

QUENOCESECRETARY OF STATE

QUEA

AADIRECHOR

RUE

RVED

ATTORNEY GENERALE CRIMINAL DIVISION

DESTURBANGERUN GO

AND:

ENTERNAL

SECURITY SECTION

AND GENERAL CRIMES SECTION

UNCLAS

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO AGTIVITTES

A CONFIDENTIAL.

THE PAST AND IS:

SOURCE WHO HAS FURNISHEO RELTABLE

INFO

KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCEANING CUBAN EXILE

ACTIVITIES. IN MIAMI ADVISED THAT CARLOS:

FRYO

9.

EX-PRESIDENT .05

CUBA,

SOCARRAS A

FESSERY

AND CAPTAIN EDUARDO SOTOLONSON

EULALIA

DR. OT TEZA, SUAREZ RIVAL PAUL P020,

ANNE STOO

OR. PEDRO ROIG,

ALL PROMINENT CUBANS

IN THE MIAMI AREAS MET

LET HASE NOTONE DEGAS COEUMORSE ACK ANDERSON ON NO SUPPOSES

1974%

MEETING

SET

1S A PERSONAL

BY FRANK S WROTS,

WHO SUPPOSEDLY

PR-TEND 0F

JACK ANDENSON:

THE MEETING TOOK PLACE

IN JACK ANDERSONIS OFFICE AND IT LASTED APPROXIMATELY 20

MINUTES,

WACK ANDERSON

WAS FURNISHED WITH A MONGGRAPH WHICH

BONESOTED AN ADVERSE ATTITUDE TOWARDS CO-SXISTENCE DEYWEEN

THE:O.S. AND CUBA,

CANLOS

P810

SOCARRAS

HE ASKED JACK ANDERSON

WAS THE SPOKESMAN FOR THE GROUP AND

COMMON.

TO HELP THE CUSANS UNITE UNDER ONG

GOAL.

PHE SIGERATION OF CUBA:

JACK ANDERSON REPLIED

THAT ME HOULD ASSIST CUBAN UNTFICAMION IN ONE U.SI, OUT WOULD

NOT WRITE AGAINST CO-EXISTENCES

SOURCE ADVISEO ABOVE NEGLING WAS HOLD SOLELY FOR THE

PURPOSE OF OOTAINING SUPPORT. Of

JACK ANDERSON IN UNITING

CUSAN EXILES IA TME UNITED STATES, NO DISCUSSION WAS HELD

CONGERNING SOMBINGS OR DINER TERRORIST

MATTERS WERE NOT ALLUCED TO DURING THE

ACTIVITIES AND

THESE

MeETING,

C/COU

Uprais

U/21

VALAN

SOME INTERNAL USE ONE AT CE

in tiple

fili

---

## Page 24

CONFIDENTIALI

PRO

CONTIDENTLAL DIGDER SAY TA STARE

CITE DOOd

12920

PRIORITY DCOA

AZING

DOD/OFFICE OF 8H2 CHIEF:

F4013

FIELD OFFICE (HENNESSAYS

SUBJs

FRANK STUP013

REF &

YHENNESSLY TELSCON, T MAY 19740 JAME

87 0 12 50TH 74

SUEJECT

•AT 1635

ON 7 MAY JS74

TIS LISTED LIVE FROM FRANK STEROISS 499

WE SECLINED A DOLARIONE CALL ON

INDICATED- CHAT

SANTLO TO MECT HITH US AS

IGHT CONLY THREE

SxTRoNa

SILE

CACCI THAT HE

repearance

To The

HE MENTIONED AT THE OUTSET THAN

HAD

AN

TO HEaT wITh

TRIED CROCE

FANCIER DATES

THAC TRIDELL

APPEAR. AT

ILY AND

HODEVER, WE TEDIATELY ANVISEO STUNTS TOT

MA GOT LU:

A POSITION TO HECK LION HIS

WE SUGGESTED

REGLIED ASSUCY CONTAST

LEVEL. HE ASKED WHO I WASHINGTON NE

INDICATED THAI

VE VERO CHABLE TO SUGSLOT A SPICIELCWAMES

THAT:

STURGIS

THES

SAID THAT HE DIDST WAIT TO PLAY

3A:2S

ARC

HE NAS PRePARED

22A0-N0116462441 SIA S0-3A19

THE TELEPHONE

---

## Page 25

PAGE 2 [CDA

I2521 COWTIDESTIAL

IMMECIATELY SAID

THAT IT CONCENSEE

NARCOTICS IU MEYICO AND THAT

A BLOBeN OF

VERY HION RANKING PeRe!

4385

TAVCLUES.

TOLD: #T

THAT IT JAS LANECESSANY TO GO BUY RESTOR BECAGSROTHS DAS A

PROCLEM FOP THE DRUG SNPGRESNENE ADENOY, AND SHORESTER THAT HE

CONTACE INEY!

HE RESPONDED THAT LE RAO HAD CENSALY PROELL9S

WITH DEA, EUT KE INDICATED THAT HE NIGHT CALL

PIANI, WHOM HE HAS KHONO FOG EONTENCO

LE AN EXCELLENT-IDEA. SILAGES TELE THAYED US AND THE CONVERSATION

WAS ICRMINATED.:

DuRiNG

STURGIS WAS VERY PERSCUNELED

BUT FRAUKE

SeriA DaIs

C3ICF

CONVERSAT 1016

WE FELISUE TIST NE

DadatAncs Our 230211016

AND WE

DO NOT ANTICIPATE THAT NE MILL ATTORI

TO CONTACE US ASCISS

4

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED

IY THUS MEMORANDU HAS ELEN

PASSED LOCALLY TO THE COS/OH.

INFOET CL EY CICOSS

C 0.

NF. J-D ENT

TAL

---

## Page 26

SECRET

8 May 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT? Frank Anthony STURGIS (201-242256)

This morning I received a phone call

from

who advisod me

chat yesterday

Frank Sturgis called the DCD.

office, and

expressed a desire to meet with one of the DeD

officers.

Sturgis claimed to have new information

on the

narcotics through Nexico and

other information which he did not specify.

The DCD|

Office thanked Sturgis for

calling and referred him to the FBi and DEA,

who would be the most interested recipients of

the information he has

Sturgis was very pleasant

on the telephone and the DCD people obviously

responded correctly.

to DDO/Narc

SECRET

---

## Page 27

RE:

CURANOS UNIDOS

UNITED CUDANS

MEANNE SECURITY CUN

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUNA

Cubanos Unidos: (CU) in a Cuban cxile antl-FInES

CASTRO organi

zat lon In Miami. Plorida

Ito purposo 18. to

scours Into arunity orrantzation and begin

autary oppressons orsingt the present Government of Cuba.

NILEREDO NAVARRO DEATO 18 the hond of cu. which

orkon ration now

Streot,

Masters trico pace at 1996 S.

Wamt, Colophono 662-9711.

On June 911970- Wy Tel, o Culan extle Involved

In revolut tonary natters for the nast alxycare. advised

that cu recontly decided to atart ailing bonds issued

In tho name

of the Republic of Cuba.

The monos collected

would be used to purchano arme for proposod olittary?

operations againat Cuba;

On June 15, 1070, 44 T-I Stated that WILFREDD

NAVARRO at that

tine

war claiming that MAURICE FERRE.

member of the Milant City Concuston,

ta sustattog hin

Cuban revolutfonary netivittos.

BA VARRO claimed tra

about a wok previously.

nootine was held in the

FERR FO

Butlding In: Mamt, and it war:

determtned, that cu. had

adoquato money, resources.

NAVARRO Said that ho Instructed

TOMAS ARANCINIA.

a leadios, nonber of cu.

to outt his lob

and NAVARRO would may his salary.

DAVARRO explalned that

ho wanted ARsiCIlla to work on a full-time basing cu

Also present nt this mooting verd tuiree unident tried:

Amoricans, one of hom reportedly has a quantity of.

arms storod at his houno.

SECRET NO FOREION DISSENINATION

Group I

Excluded on automatte

downgradins and

dec losstrication

D30 - 121571

1100тi0

(05. d0) /00-7--84

---

## Page 28

RE

on key9.84.

SALE SO TORTES DISSENCE

CUBARES UNIDOS

(UNITED CUDANS)

On June 19. 1070. i T-3. arother Government

agency which conducts intollicenco Investtrattons advised

Information had beei recolved that CU recontly held a

meeting to introduce Americans who are hickter. their

orkanizatton. Tho Amoricano wore FRANK FIORINI and FD

KAISER:

TORINT chits himsol! the "Chiet of Intelligance

Section of Cubanos Unidos"

On July 1, 1970, WILFREDO VAVARRO BEATO Apneared

the Want Office of the FBI with his brother, ROFRAE

NAVARRO BEATO, and advinod on follows:

FRANK FIORINT, an Amorican Citizen, who has been

Involved in Cuban exile revoluttonary matters for the past

ton years, recently sinod a untty orreenent with Cl

Tis

this aureement, FIORINI, who represents some independent

antI-CASTRO organization, afrocd that political unity of

oll exile groups must.he

establiahede

FIORINI is not &

member of CU no such, holds no official position, and is

not- 1n, charge of intelligonce.

MAVARRO cald that a few days prevlously he

roturned Iron Washluston,:

where again he was trying.:

to obtain United States Government support and uncking

He was told that no support could be Given unless it was

personally authorized by prosident RICHARD M. NIXON,

They stated that. JonGE CONZALeZ, alao known as

"Nomb1110"

who was formorly asgoclated with another

antl- CASTRo organization, was in no way associated with

CU. They Claimed that CU.had no plans to attack a Russian

vessel off tho const of florida:. CU had previously sald

it needed some 57mn recolless rifles for this parposo:

- but had no intention of attacking a Russian vossel:

Announcoments

that they were kolne to do so were nade

for political propaganda and also to ntir patriotic

Cüban exiles to become more activo in Cuban revolutionary

mattors.

SECRFT - NO FOREIGN DISSEMIYATION

---

## Page 29

RE:

CUBANOS UNTDOS

(UNITED CUBANS)

BOB RAJEY (phonot ic). a commentator on

Channel 1

TV.

P242Ml.

who will

travolcoith

WILFREDO NAVARRO.

ATLFREDO NAVARRO, londer of CU.

JORGE NAVARRO, brothor of wiLFirDo and

designated toval Chlot of cu.

irst Namo Unknown) RODRIGUEZ ALONSO.

designated Military Chief of CU.

CORDON DI BATTISTO, an Itollar having

Mat la connections.

EDWIN KAISER, reportedly with "U.S. Pronch

Leglon*

MAURICIO FERRE esportedly providos financial

backing to VILFREDO NAVARRO.

PILIN MENDOZA, a frIond of JOSE PERRE.

NM T-S Indicatod that it was intonded that

nercenaries

from Corsica would bo used.

Nest 30th Street,

KAISER Bald that he had previously hoen in the French Foreign

Leston and knows

former lecionnairos who nou live in all

parts of tho world.

Many of theso lestonnires vould flint

as mercenaries if contacted, but at tho resent time

ho nor

C has any plans to contact these people and does not-

have tho tunds to pay then or the military equipment to losue:

them, WISeR said that VILTREDO NAVArRO is a long-timo

friend of Milant City Connissioner, MAURICE FARRE, and the

naturo of their relationship is bustness interestr.

KAISER advised ho continuos to be active in CU

6.-

SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

---

## Page 30

11.12.8

SECRET 181S42E JUN TO CITE BUNIAMI, 2935

10638106201

DIRECT OR

RYBAT TYPIC

FOLLOSING IS UPCATE SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS

VITHIN MILITANT EXILE COMMUNITY:

3. NOSE TORRIENTE HAS TOLD AMCHALK-I THAT

NEGOTIATIONS ARE VELL ALONG FOR OSTAINING TWO ISLANDS AS

TRAINING AND OPERATIOWAL BASES FOR EXILES.

ONE IS THE

ECITA OFF THE SOUTH COAST OF THS DOLIDICAN REPUBLIC.

MEGOTIATIONS GITH UIIDENTIFIED DOMINICANS FOR USE OF THIS

ISZAID ARE TAKIUD PLACE INDOUGH TVE ARGENTINE CONSUL

CELERA 1A PUERTO RICO. TORRINE VAS IN PUERTO RICO LAST

WEEKS THE OTHER ISLAED WHICH IS BEING USGOTINTED FCS BY.

EX-PRESIDENT CÁRLOS PRIO SOCARRAS IS ILE A VACHE CHICH IS

LOCATED OFF SHE SOUTERU HAITIAD PEUINSULA TRATaIRO.

ACTIVITIES AND RECRUITIDO FOR A MARITME NOD IUFILTRAZIO

COURSE 1S CURRENTLY TAKIAO PLACE IN THS MATI AREA, MCNEVER

THUS FAR ALL TRINING HAS BEEN CONDUCTED UNDER CLASSROOY

BARSON 10 P638509103 OF ANDY OF SHS GANGS OF IEIVIOUALS

---

## Page 31

1:3

MAGE & UNRIANS 1033 SLGRET

PERCITED:

PL'S FUNDARD LANGEST SCALE AMY AND HYUNOCHANNIC

MAPS AVAILABEL FOR THESE ISLANDS.

J. THE CUBAROS UOIDOS GYUUP CONTINUES TU AT LEAST

MARE APPEARANCES OF ACTIVITY. ANSNAP-3 REPORTS THAT FRANK

FIORINI 2201-2122569 NOS LIUKED HIMSELF VITA THE RAVARRO

BROTHER'S AUD GORDOS DI BATTISTO. PICAIM CALLS. HIMSELF

-CHIEF OF INTELLICENCS SECTION OF CUBANOS UNIDOS®

RECEDILY A RESTIUG WAS HELD AT DUPONT PLAZA HOTEL TO

INTRODUCE AMERICANS UHO ARE BACKING THE CUBAÑOS UNIDOS

DROUP. THE AMERICANS IU ATTENDENCE WERE FIORINI AND ED

KAISER. FLORINI TOPLTED THAT CUBANOS UNIDOS HAS UNITED

STATES GOVERIMENT SUPPORT.

ANSUAP-3 SELLEVES, AS MANY

OTHER CUBARS DO, THAT FIORIUS AUD KAISER MAY BE TIED IN

WITH MAFIA.

SIX MOUTHS AGO, ACCORDING TO ANSUAP-J, THE

SAME GROUP FORMED A SUPPESEOLY DON-PROFIT CACANIZATTON IN

TALLARISSSE TO AID CUSAGS. SOSES GLAS PAINTED EP APA

SED TO 100AL GEIPANIES ARD REFUGEES.

IT iS AFPaRRAT ThaT

• "OEn" EATE 1S COlDS 03.

MUGNONEN. ETINGAL SLEILORS AND ISIE: D1065.39335

COLDOS FO PRIE COO FARPEES.

510223

---

## Page 32

PAGE S WHINIAMI 7935 SECAEX

•VE HAVE LEARNED FROM ANCHONESS TiNY ERECTAL

MODIFIED BERTRAM BOATS, 3U FEET GION 2 EACH MERCROISEN

INBOARD ENGINES RATLO AT SES NURSE PONEN CACO MOVE 5606

CADERED BY HAITIAN GOVERNMENT.

THE SEATS AAR ALSO SOULFILE

WIN RADAR AND FORWARD MOUNT ANG HEAVY LAPORE TODATE,

ONLY 2 BOATS HAVE BEEN CONPLETED. AMCRUMP-S LEARNED ABOVE

A'S RESULT OF HIS CURRENT PROPRIETOR-NIP CF A MARINE

SERVICES COIPANY, REPORTEDLY, TO TO LU BOATS ARE IN CODER.

WHILE NO INTORNATION IS AGAILARES TO CONTRADICT THE FACT

THAT THESE ARE BEING ONDERED FOS THS HAITIAN GOVERNENT, ME.

SPECULATE THAT THIS MAY BE ACTUALLY FOR CUSAN EXILES FIE

PURCHASINO AGENT IS JAMES BETER BNO HAS BEEN INVOLVED ER

PREVIOUS PURCHASES FOR DAVALIER

3. FILET: 201-290781, 201-242255, 298-2391590 GP=I-

SECRET

---

## Page 33

26043:

NTERNAL:

USE ONLY

MESSAUE

•STION •

966228

doschia

E1A243

PACC: 01

TOR 2405342 APR 75

D

R. 2924502 APR 75

OM DIRECTOR, SBU

TO RUEADEN/UNITE HOUSES SITUATION

AITENTIONS MRIGERRY DE

JENNINGS

RUEBRUA/ ASSTSTANZ ATTORNEY GENERALS

AND INTERNAL SECURITY

CRIMINAL DIVISION

SECTION

AND GENERAL CRIMES SECTION

RUEALTA/DIRECTOR.

ClA

RUENSE/U, SO

SECRET SERVICE SPID

RUENOC/SECRETARY OF STATE

UNCLAS

UNSUB OTAREAT TO ASSASSINATE SÉCRETARY OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER

AND THE PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELAT

ON APRIL 23, 1975 MERANK ANTHONY STURGISE SGLDIER OF

FORTUNE: AND CONVICTED WATERGATE DEFENDANTI WAS CONTACTED AT

THE LILLY FURNITURE STORE, 1225 NW 119 STREET, MIAMI. GLORIDA,

HE ADVISEO THAT ON APRIL 220 1975 SOURCE OF HIS

CLINED TO IDENTIFY BUT HAD FORMERLY WORKED FOR

CENTRAL

WHOM HE DEP

GENCE AGENCY, HAD FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION TO

INTELCIS

STURGIS-ON A CONFIDENTIAL BASIS:

LEAGUEL

A GROUS CALLING TSELE THE LATIN AMERICAN ANTI-COMMUNIST

WEEKS•.

"BASED TA MIAMI, FLORIDAD HAD BEEN ACTIVE

THE.

HEAD MAN

; OF THIS GROUP WAS AN EX-CUBAN LAWYER

NAMED DR, DE CARCENIS,

WITH

. THE GROUP."

TRERE WAS A REVÉREND ESPINOSA #INVOLVED

HE-WAS-SUSPECTED BY THE

SOURCE AS BEING -A

CASTRO AGENT AND KAS SUPPOSED TO DETA FORMER NEW YORK POLICEMAN

-WHO HAD FORKED FOR G-2 IN CUBA IN FORMER YEARS:

THIS GROUP HAD REPORTEDLY RECRUITED TWO NATIVE BORN

AMERICANS FROM THE NEW YORK AREA AND SENT TNEM FROM MIAMI TO CUSA

SEVERAL. ABERS AGO-INA-BCAT ON CLANDESTINE OPERATION• -THEY HAVE

SINCE RETURNED TC MIAMI: BUT THE REASON FOR THE TRIP WAS UNKNOWN.

IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT DR. DE CARDENAS HAD BEEN ATTEMPTING

9O OSTAIN U.S: PASSPORIS FOR FOUR NATURALIZEO CUEAN AMERICANS

IDENTITIES UNKACAN.

_ HE: WAS ALSO TO TRY TO-GET-VENEZUELAN VISAS

FOR-THESE INDIVIDUALS.

DURIYG EVENING MEETINGS IA RECENT

CUSSED MANY THINGS.

WHEN IT.

WEEKS.

THE

GROUP

HAS. REPORTED

THAT WENRY KISSINGER

WAS TRAVELING TO VENEZUSLA.

THE

VARIOLE FLANS

FOR CREATING SOME MIND OF

INTERNATIONAL

CENT DURING

200-6-1195147

RECORD COPY

56/29

FBE

D.BD - 87695

201

le

---

## Page 34

et attres

1.29 0G. 2098

CABLE ME GIBUN

IT NOMEO

FO

050

TOTAL CON

DiO ADMIN INTERNAL USE CHLYND

An 21 3 57 10475 A2

SSAGE

T 966200

E1/2,3

PACE. 02

TOR 12405343 APR. 75

(N 5120

KISS INCER'S VISIT IU VENEZUELA WHICH WOULD TEND 10 DISCHEONT HIND

AND THE

PRESIDENT OS

MENEZUELAO

AS A RESULT ON

THESE REPORTED DISCUSSIONS,

THE SOURCE HAD:

BEEN LED TO DELIEVE THAT

POSSIBLY

THESE PLANS MIGHE GESULT UN:

ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON KISSINGER WHEN ME WAS VISITING IN

VENEZUELA.

STURGIS EXPLAINED

THAT THIS SOURCE WAS UNABLE TO FURNISH

ANY OTHER DETAILS IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INFO 447103 AND NO

OTHER MEMBERS OF THE GROUP WERE IDENTIFIED:

STOPSIS UNDER

STOOD. THAT THE SOURCE HAD OBTAINED THE, INFORMATIC

A6504

THE ALLEGED PLANS FOR CREATING AN INTERNATIONAL INCIDENT INS

VOLVING KISSINGER THARPHEMEGHUS GROUP

WIFE OF A MAINHO WAS

CONNECTED WITH A MEMBER OF

HAD OVERHEARD HER HUS"

SAND TALKING ON THE TELEPHONE ABOUT KISSINGER'S VISIT DO

VENEZUELA AND HAD REPORTED THIS INFORMATION TO

THE SOURCES

STURGIS ADVISED THAT NOW THAT KISSINGER'S VISIT

TO,.

- VENEZUELA: HAD BEEN CANCELLED HE UNDERSTOOD THAT ALL PLANS

"WAD BEEN

ABORTED" AND THAT THERE WAS NO LAMEDIATE DANGER: OR

CONCERN.

ALTHOUGH

NO DEFINITIVE PLANS OF THE GROUP

WERE KNOWN,"

STURGIS

UNDERSTOOD THAT THE GROUP HAD

ONLY DISCUSSED POSSIBLE

PLANS FOR

AN

INCIDENT INVOLVING BOTH-KISSINGES OND THE PRESIDENT

DE VENEZUELA DURING SUCH A VISIT IN ORDER TO DISCREDIT UNITED

STATES-VENEZUELA RELATIONS,

STURGIS POINTED OUT THAT THE CUBAN EXILES ARE ALMAYS

TALKING, CONSPIRING AND PLANNING SOME

SORT

OF ANTI-CASTRO

ACTIONS, BUT IT IS PRIMARILY IDLE AND HOPERUL GOSSIP AND RUMORST

THAT COME TO NOTHINGO

STURGIS STATED THAT ALTHOUGH HE FELT THERE WAS NO IMMINENT.

DANGER IN THESE ALLEGED THREATS, WE HAD PROFILY REPORTED THIS

INFORMATION TO AN ACCUAINTANCE OF HIS IN THE U.S. CUSTOMS AGENCY&

MIAMI FLORIDA,

THIS U.S• CUSTOMS AGENT

• ADVISES STURGIS

THAT HE WOULD PROMPTLY REPORT THIS INFORMATIL! TO THE VISA SECRET.

SERVICES MIAMI, WHICH AGENCY HAC PROTECTIVE

JSRISGICTION FOR U.S.

CASINET MEMBERS,

ACCORDINGLY, STURGIS UNDERSTOJE THAT THIS

MATTER WAS: BEING HPPROPRIATELY HANDLED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.

SOURCES FAMILIAR MITH CUBAN GROUPS AND ACTIVITIES

IN. THE

MIAMIA FLORIDA

AREA HAVE FURNISHED NO INFO

INDICGTING THE EXIST

ENCE OF ANY GROUP CALLING ITSELE THE LATIN RETICAN ANTI-COMMUNIST

*LEAGUE.

•A ON APRIL 7, 19750 A CONFIDENTIAL SOVER,

IS FAMILIAR

ALMIN INTERVAL. IS

003

---

## Page 35

121

MG: 3193

CABLEBEC DIES

FE TOTALLO NO

r0..

ADMIA: INTERNAL USE ONLY.

MESSAGE

ON

ACTION

T. 966208

E1A243

PAGE 03-03

TORI20OS343 APR575

1N 561301

109 204

WITH CUBAN COMMUNITY ACTAVITIES AND WAS FUPNISHED RELIABLE

INCORMATION IN THE PASTE REPORTED AS FOLKSWSS

CON MARCH 240 19750 REVEREND MANUEGOESPENOSA, DIAZ.

MINISTER

OF THE

PENTECOSTAL CHURCHE ACCOMPANIED BY FOUR CUBAN EXILES.

BOARDED THEY 00AT.

"WAN ININI DLY

WAS PILOTED BY ANOTHER CUBAN NAMED JOSE CARDENAS.

THE GROUP,

CLANDESTINELY WENT

TO THE NORTH COAST OF CUBA: AND REVEREND

ESPINOSA CARRIED A LIST OF OVER THIRTY THOUSAND CUBANS WHO HAD

BEEN UNABLE TO COME

TO THE UNITED STATES TO JOIN THEIR RELATIVES.

REVEREND ESPINOSA HAD AN INTERVIEW WITH FIDEL CASTRO IN AN EFFORT

TO ARRANGE THE LEGAL DEPARTURE OF THESE PEOPLES

SUBSEQUENTLY ON MARCH 31, 1975, IT WAS LEARNED IN MIAMI

THẠT

THE

"WAHININI I1Y HAD RETURNED TO MARATHON, FLORIDA ESCORTED:

BY THE U.S, COSY GUARD.

ON THE SHIP,

IN ADDITION

TO REVEREND

ESPINOSA

AND

AND HIS CUBAN EXILE COMPANIONS

WERE

TWO U.S: NEWSMEN:

CAMERAMEN FROM CHANNEL THO TV, MIAMI, IDENTIFIED AS KY BURTON

AND

KAPY KAPERMANd

A COPY OF THIS COMMUNICATION IS BEING FURNISHED TO U.S. SECRET

SERVICE, MIAMI

ADMIR INTERNAL USE GNLY

---

## Page 36

4 WH/COG 362-74.

25 January 1974

MEMORANDUM: FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

DCD Contact with Frank Sturgis of the

Watergate Plumbers Group

Frank Sturgis contacted DCD in/

recognize the nano at first, agreed to mege wich him.

The DCD meeting with Sturgts has been eleäred withe

CIA Legal Counsel, and was cleared with

the "Do on 25- January

1974

No species date for hea

meeting was givon to WHe

bute it is assuned that the

meeting will take place?

the next few days:

E2F IMPDET:

CLABY 054555

---

