i04-0126-(0908

| SECRET

OLC 78-1745/1
1? May 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting With Gary Cornwell, Deputy Staff Chief, House Select
Committee on Assassinations - 17 May 1978

1. (S) Mr. Gary Cornwell, Deputy Staff Chief, House Select Committee
on Assassinations, met with Messrs. Gregg, Shepanek, Sturbitts, DDO, and
the undersigned on 17 May 1978, to discuss plans and procedures for his
upcoming trip to Mexico City.

2. (S) The following individuals will travel to Mexico City on 30 May 1978
and return on 4 June 1978: Gary Cornwell, Harold Leap, Edwin Lopez, and
Dan Hardway, of the Committee staff.

3. (S) The Department of State has been asked to set up lodging
and local transportation and to provide access to the Mexican Government for
assistance in interviewing individuals who are known to be Mexican nationals
or who may have worked in the Cuban Consulate.

4. (S) Four individuals of interest to the Committee were associated
with the Agency. They are: Charles Flick, George Frederick Munro, Robert
Zambernardi, and Ramon-Joseph Alvarez Durant. DDO will assume the action
on notifying the Chief of Station Mexico of the Committee's visit and intentions
and will attempt to arrange these four interviews in a secure manner.

5. (S) Mr. Gregg suggested the possibility that Mexican liaison may
have records of # 1963 joint tel tap operations. Mr. Cornwell deferred to the
Agency to ask that question of the Mexican service.

- Mr. Breckinridge

ae Y
Ke

RODGER Sé GABRIELSON
- Mr. Gregg, SA/DO/O

- Mr. Shepanek, 0/SA/DO/0 203s 8
Mr. Sturbitts, DDO/LA Div.

- OLC Subject

~ OLC Chron

LC:RSG:jms (17 May 78) SECRET

Distribution:

OrPReEHEHE
‘

eae
2 oF
eSZameper ot avn d Sd
