# 104-10234-10275

## Page 1

104-10234-10275

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

CONFIDENTIAL

Memorandum

TO

Chief, Domestic Collection Division

Attn: Deputy Chief, DCD

FROM : Chief, Washington Field Office

SUBJECT: I. Irving Davidson - Call-In to the DCI.

DATE:

WAS-700-74

29 July 1974

1.

On 26 July 1974, I. Irving Daviason, Public Relations

Specialist, Suite 806 City Bullding, 1622 K Street, N.k.,

Hashington, DC, 20006, was contacted at his office. Davidson

had telephoned the Director of Central Intelligence earlier in

the day to request an imediate intervier concerning a Soviet

arms shigment into the lestern Hemisphere.

2. Davidson claimed that he had fairly reliable in ormation

concerning the location of 15 thousand Soriet "lachmirov" rifles

with 25 millien rounds of ammunition. Hanufactural in IgTU, the

riPles are in the original crates and sell for US$120 each; Davidson

did not establish the price of the amunition. He can arrange for

the entire saiment to arrive at the free port in Antwerp, Belgiu,

for transfer to any buyer. Daviason hopes the US Goverment will

purchase this entire shimient in order to prevent it iron entering

the western remisphere. Ee presumes that he was notified of the

existence of the shipent because it is well-known that be has the

confidence of senior goverrment leaders throughout Istin Anerica, and

might be instruental in selling the arms.

Davidson is appalled at the

thought of Soriet arns proliferation in the western lemisphere, and ke

hopes the shiprent can be halted.

3. On 23 July 1974, Davidson returned to the US after traveling

to a number of foreign countries.

He receirel a telephone cell fros an

old friend in Zurope whose identity he refisel to reveal. The friend

advised him that "Alexander" had & sound proposal and would set in

touch with his.

later on 23 July, Alexander called Daviiss fron a

location which Davidson believes to have been within the continental

-US. Alexander related that he had the reasons and armnition stored

outside of Bastern Zurope, and that the goods could be inspected 1f

Davidson and his client would go to Paris, Frence, for further

instructions. Il requested to do so, Devidson is rilling to escort

a US representative to Paris for the purpose of inspecting the

merchandise. He would not accept a commission on the transaction,

but might be persuaded to accept expense boney for the trip. He

Insisted that his orfer vas notivated purely by patriotiso, and because

of his personal dislike for the UsSR.

B 2 IMPDET CL. BY 010650

CONFIDENTIAL

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly os she Payroll Sewings Plan

Lent

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Tuban AL

(PAGE 2)

KAS-700-7%

29 July 1974

"4, He expressed our appreciation to Davidson for the

inforcation provided, and assured him that we could advise ho

within one week o? USG interest, or lach thereof ne expressed

our feeling that alrost certainly the reaction sould be a nerative

one.

No other camitment vas pade to Davidion.

5. We acquired the following personal data on Davidson.

He was born on 19 January 1921 in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, and

he currently resides at 2919 licot Street, ioti., lashingtos, D.C.

He formerly vas registered as an agent of several foreign goverments,

but he recently resigned these comissions. He frequently reports

inforzation to the FBI after his nuerous trips abroad, but he felt

that this particular Inforation was beyond the scope of the Bureau's

jurisdiction.

- 6. DCD (Services) MeDo, dated 14 May 1971, Subject: Davidson,

I. Irving - Current Prosecution for Praud--advised the lashington

Field Office that the Office of Security had placed Davidson in a

"Jo Contact" category, and that he vas not to be unci in any capacity

whatsoever until further notice.

Unless instructions are received to the contrary, te plan

to telephone Davidson on 31 July 1974 to Infor his that the Usu has

deemed it inappropriate to react to his proposal. he trust that our

refusal will not be newsworthy to Davidson's friend, columist

Jack Anderson, whose offices are on the next floor.

8.. Attached is Davidson's flle for your return to DCI Security.

Attachnent: As stated

irit is sti in.

GONG GENTIAL

-i*s

---

