# 104-10189-10018

## Page 1

104-10189-10018]

отОжа,

ДАР 188.

O BA PRost 149 (PB 191-91 €

UNITED STATES GOVERSMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, Domestic Contact Service

ATTN

; OSS (Musulia)

FROM : Chief, Houston Office

SUBJECT:

REF

Case 49364 - Possible Involvement of

George Brown in Garrison Macter

: Haynes/Musulin Telecon S Jan 68

HOU-9-68

DATE:

Il January 1968

1.

In connection with referenced telecon and ia anticipation of

receipt of memo on this request from Musulin, Haynes contacted

Herbert Frensley and learned chat he would only be available early in

the morning of 8 January as he was leaving. town for several days

at

mid-morning.

Feeling

that he was fairly well informed on what Musulin

would request in his memo, Haynes made arrangements to see Frensley

before he left town.

2. Frensley stated that chere have been no further developments

in the Gurevich approach (through the Newsweek correspondent) to Brown.

Frensley had advised Brown so ignore the matter and tbus far he bas.

Frensley says that Brown

has not the slightest intencioa of trying to

gain access to the documents referred to by the Newswee's correspondent.

3. Frensley wag most appreciative of the small swunt of back-

ground we could

furnish

him on Gurevich

and his methods. We will keep

you informed if there

are further developments.

TReate

ERNEST A.. RISCHE

BenPHaynes/mf

Enter triso

1018-108

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Rizularly on she Payroll Sarings Per

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MENUAANDUM NO. a

SUBJECT:

Garrinun and lào Kunnedy Adoaasinallon.

I SUMMAARY.

i. Tide :rerorandien le lengthy cocaude l6 rerarte on thirty

¡e5eane lnvolied in Garrleun'o Inveoriralion. Eight di theee tave os

had DD: dles. (oi theio al 1he, turee bare ur baù oo ne coocaca sich

the Doméalle Contace Sorilce aa well.) Elgheinore vere DCS contacta.

zourteen

nad no aiítllailon ultn fhe Agency but clalied do bavo or were

nald uy oruaru tn ha:o had such a selalionahty. Seren of tutal of thirey

isaro nol ay sared pre:ioualy da tila seztno.

i. The DD:' contacla: are lhe Sellomin2:

Francieca Antonio BAKTES Clareno, Cuban rofugod

Joados to New Cirlasas who has co ne lo Carrlocn'o altentlon.

DDi :llot äd July li6:8011 Fessuary d106. DCS cantact

+ay 1961 10 DI0SEn.

1. Geosse BBUWN. Carrioon do reportodly trylog to

lnpllente htis in the "aoaasstnatlon plot'. Has "eos soth a

DDP ani a DCS contaca. Detalle are being ascertainod and sill

De seported.

c.

Leolle Noriran BRADLEY, Garrioon las charged

an Edgar FujeDe BiADLEY with velng one ot lie conesiratora

but :nay bavo eanissed hln with Laalle Noraan BRADLEY. Tie

latler was ein, loyed as a co pilot iy a Cli-conirolled air line

150.1 26 16ay- 198: un111 ld Septersser 1968. He had one DCS

moetins on Zi June i9u3.

¿. Alberto Federico FIANANDEl. Hechararsla.

Iuentlíled to Garriom as a Cuuan leader aaboriated Mita Lawrence

JOBODÀ LADORDE. DDi conlace iran Deceiniver 1260-60 piodent.

: Lawrence Josept LABORDE. HiO dOn 1AD TOÇ0TIO

n hlm and lis assuclaces to Garrtoon'o arali.

DD; contact

180.1 FabIuary or Marca l dll lu 20 A, ril l'icá.

Di.:"

---

## Page 3

14-00009

1. AUTodI. MORAN. Has sdeb prestioned y

Carrinon's sta:l.

torresen. DES coniact (ron l1 Deceniber 19ol 1o

prosent.

Slace 11 Noreinder 1Je4 contacta for the DD?

Lave sees handied by

Brio DCS.

E- VICIOS LIANEl CANILUE Y BATETA. Mad

boon Identileo so Garrion ao havio, isen in chargo al a

CLA trainlag cavo la Loutolana. DDOlor. 13 Novendos

1D6o to 31 Cerodes 1965.

1. EriUli SANTANA Gallado, Was interrayaled

Dy Garriaon and otali los live dass la Februar; l9i%. DDI

contaci irara Colober 19:% 8a Celeber 1911.

3. Ite DCS contacte aro the follalogi

•, Carlos Jose BRINGUIER. Hao joen latorrogated

and polygramed oy Carrison, DC3 contace tenruary and

April 1707.

¿. bllan Wayno DALZILL. Has jeen queationed

3y Garrison dod stall. Allogod be pao a illiated win ClA.

DEI contacla la Marambes (96ù and la January and February 190i.

6. Garald Fairles HENWINGJr. Bao ldentliled 8o

Garriaon'e ssail as a pars-litary lastrucias di Cubano and

loler voited astriaon'e dillea. DOS cousace íror, Occorer 1910

8O MArcA i961.

d. Jack N. ROGERS. A Balon Hougo allorney la loues

Pith Garriadd'e slail. DES contaci iro a Seste ases 1918 80

the present

c. CLA; SHAW. Arrested sy Cariloun on a charge ot

comepirine to assassinere frondent Kennesy. DCS deo iro:

December liai to day insa.

1. Cecil Marwell SHIATONE. Menber of Truti and

conseguences, lac., valc: dopalod...onny lo Carrison'e ofisce.

Llloloaj irlond di two meriera di the DoS attice la Ner Orlonna,

but officlal coniace ended la iiso.

3

i"":

---

## Page 4

& SCHLUMBLAGE& WellS: cing Curiorallon.

jald uy carriaun and siero do ta, e seen tir uridnal ownes

¡or uso al dia Bay of rijo.

rardoud SCHLU:IDERGL.olilccs.

Currebt DOS Contacle ster

John Garrett UNDERHILL Jr.

Mandria has played itia up as a ClA contact who knew

Cial Rio Ajoncy was ictidid tus annassina. DCS contact

¡rain lal lay to do nid 19ạ.s.

.

Tie ergons: (alsely clalilns Agency alilliation. or

avout whaia Bich clate baieuesu ado Dy Uors, as66:0 following;

a. Valentine ASHWCATH.. Iaterviered by Carrioon'o

otall. Now In jail, ASHlONTH las clalred a llak alti. CLA

and former assuclallon with c'awald.

si Guy BANISTER. Dead.

Hancarto bas alleged

that te zao associated with CIA and witn Minutenen Invaliod

in to assassiratlon.

Maurice Broute GATLIN Sr. Dead, Nas:ars

bao alloged luat no mao sonociated alta BANisTEil and ClA.

d. Darid W. FERRIE. Lead. Garrlaso has charged

RaL SERILE Una a ronver of the conaylracy ios tie aosassination

ol Presidoo! Kennody and that he waried for CIA.

•. Loran Eigone HAll, Subsuedaod ly Caritao do

a maleslal altacos. Garrison charges bat to warked for CIA.

& MBIenCO JOhn HOWARD IS. As above.

S• JulOs RICeO KIMBLE. Miered Inlornation to

Garrison'o stall. Clalned afillialion with CIA.

A. FRU LOGAN. Sald by Gordon NÜVEL and

Regarta to have been a CIA adiloor to tie friendo ot

Do zucratic Cuba la Neu Orleano. No pertinent Idealilaile

Information estato.

3

---

## Page 5

1.- Richard Case NAGELL Clalio lalarly 1o taro

varned ln Ful sluro die assasonallon: Cladis 'alsely

8o ve Agaser-sitillaied. Servog a ton car seria lo El laso.

Mentally so e moclonally unstable.

¿ Binald Fi NORTON. Plown 8o Nex Cirleans at

Gertoon o es one and debrleiod In a land laterston.

Chalied entanive des vich ChA. Shaw, perrie, and Crind.

Diachar sed iron the V.S. Alr Forco for cayridalrle roasaao.

*i Cordua Dano NOVEl. Carloon soughe lo excradlta

alm from cisio an solinees. Both NOVEl mad Garrison have

Indeel, asserted thai NOVEl borked lor ClA.

1.. 100 H$Prey CSWALD. Carsteon allojos that ho

was CLA.

5. JacRUBY. An above.

• Liard Stewar SUGGS. Clains to se an invesizatar

108 Garstaur. Claline iorine? CLA deR.

I. DETAILS

l. Tus morandan provides intornion about too py'ea

ol parsona a ho are presently or antentially lavolved lu Dioclet Adoraay

Ja:noo C. Carrica's Investigation ol the assassinadion of Prodiceat

Nuanody and st are or bore absocialod vil CIA. Iniorretina la aloo

Ancluded Aspse a Card calozory so Chess Who have dover seen assoctated

with ClA bal aser shor a ClA tle bas beon asserted, dy berdelred or

othere.

8. Graas i lo to itral category consors of resent or former

DD? contacta, Grous l conDiol d pIConE DI lorior DCS contacto.

have lad o: association all the Agency sul who idio seen allejed y

S. Grsias I (total o1 is)

a Francioco AMoNo BANTES Clarena (201-257333).

---

## Page 6

(i) frior referoaces: Me.noranduin, Bubject:

Garrioon Invadiliallon of Kennedy Aséassination:

¿ranciaco Antenio BARTLS Clarene (21) - 25) 1833);

2i Noveinder 1267.

(2) Invilianent in Cariloon'e laresildaddon:

None: known to date. Hio for: er mualtion aa head s

Abe Cuban Revulutonary Coucil (CRC) la New Crleane

and lie varllor. Me la Lawsence LABORDE and othere

In roB.ecs:t0 Guerrilla tralaing lor ans-Cadter Cubaos

has already, horever, been draen to Carrison'a attention.

(3) DDi and DCS relationahloe:

(a) DDP. Alchaugh a POA for ose in

IMATE was renuested on 29 Decantar 19ic and

jranted Jú January lobi, the roqueal was cancelled

in 3U Auguel 1161, and BARTES Was not used

dartna fila laterial. (Pes IMWAVE 0453,

& Decamber 1907.1 On 28 May 1915 SCD/AB/00S/J

Perrested a CA to porcall the una ol BARTES aS A

pliot lo the Congo. The PCA was granted on

89 July 190i, andan 0A on 7 September 19b5.

Toadog of Subject'a nuill as a pllor rescaled, bowever.

diat le wao not qualliled lor Mie labondod andiganone.

He waa seturned to the U.S. on di February dyi

wituout having icen noad sporationally.

(5) DaS.

The Ilrot contact ol DCS New

DElOQNe With BAATES OCCUrrEd On 4 MAy 1941.

Berweon that date and l January 1957 a total ol

13 :0Rdago Lodi, place. BARTES la the Dourco of

a1x DCS repurta. Contact lus not inen terminated.

•. George BroWN.

(:) Pror reierences: None.

(2) Involvement in Garrioon lorendiyation: A

DCS Hauoson rajort si 21 Decorber 1747 siatoo that

Desage BROWN recedrod a dioturhin, telecione call on

12 Decender 1107 IOn HUgh AYNESWORTH o Newevees.

mo bald tar BUl 'Gervage" (Consent: Preennaoly

Identiced with Willam H. GURVICH) lad indicated trat

$

---

## Page 7

14-00009

To allegallon lo. dise ln sone

unseelled vansor Droso sad Involied with tio ClA

In lo oinectire al 'coverlay un' ino cone racy los

Preoduce Johanon. As neoworth sald Gervage hao

docu ronto, Including at least one In Carrlaun's ovo

hancuritine, whica cross- soly have been entracted

Iro » Carsteon'e illes.

(3) DD? relationaslo:

Tre s'ove resort says

Bit BROWN !no coo, prated elopely mit: CLA da lunding

sporations. Chechs are nder way.

c. Lealle Norma BRADLEY. (201-127373).

(!) Urlor pelorencoo: bemorandan No. 1.

26 ArIll 1368, Enclusure si Aerorandar No. 2.

3 May 1988, Enclosure d.

(2) Involvent la Carrioon's Lovestigation:

None iowa so dale. Dirlag the sagi 21+4t Doco:ber

1567 soveral U 5, newsasore rossrted that on 20

Decomber Carrier's olilo rad accused une Lidgar

Eugone BRADLEY o1 North Bollywood, Callornia, of

consulring lo assassinate rosident Lensedy. On 27

December l was arraignou ou a inalive complaint and

coluased on bis own rocognisance, Lalradliloo lo currently

100t. Tiere le no ChA record it FAgar Eugene BRADLEY.

Om or about 2i Decembor 120% however, the Maandagton

bureau of the Los Angeles Tiros made an Inguiry of the

A/DI regardia; Leallo Nurman BRADLEY. Tie Newoweet

loose of 5 January Iyi5 arceulated that Garrlaon indgoe

nave comuded Logar Fagene witi olther of two sher ron,

one of who:1s"... A sometie Now Orleans allos

na-ned Bradlay who was once jalled in Cia for anti- Caatro

aciivitlos." Tido descristion lito Leulle Nornas BRADLEY.

(3) DD: and DCS relationshi;a:

(a)

Al iis secuese, Leelle Norman BRADLEY

was not ay tie DES ollice in iliansa,olle ior one

and a hali houro on do June 1303.

There gas no

alier DCS confacE.

""".

---

## Page 8

1d-0d0d

(1) BRADLET and mi co cantona

were arronted by Cuban Col on 23 lay 1969

one charzo of eminter revolullonar, secrisy.

BHADLEY Collandralad wiel dho Caban

authorilios while lia,rlooned on the lale it Pined.

He was repatriaiod, vili other A. ericans,

on 22 Aarll 1903.

(6) IDS-HD serueated a portalunal

•Corert Security Ar.coral on Li, May 1964 la

..order to soo Leslle Nor iAn BRADLEY loolde

the contlents! U.S. as a co-plot a nilojed by

Ca 3!

October 176: DDS-HB requested cancellatios,

and anyloyient wao considered tor:.inated.

le was later establloled, homoves, that Subject

ren:alned employed untu 12 Seconder 1907,

vies be was droped lor uncallalactory perfor-nance.

curther imulry lo voder way.

d. AlDerto FEderICo FERNANDEL Mechavarila (271-251353).

(:) irtor relorences: léeinorandurn No. 3.

8 Anguat 1967, Enclueuro d; Menorandu., No. 4,

7 50al0:nder 1967, 20g0 di

(2) Involve nont lo Garrioon'e Investigation:

FERNANDEZ was Idontliled to one al Carrian'o stali

ne the head o! a Cuban organization wilch oreployad

LANTERCO JOSEph LABORCE: (soc balai) and othors.

LABCRDE's son Michael also sald that his lather workod

los CLA.

(3) DD: relationabl:: HERNANDEY 1A0 3800 8

cossact al the dilant Station fra:, Doceries 19i0 do the

present, altiougi haguent coased on l Decenber 1905.

0. Satisance Joboil LABORDE (20i-234:33).

(:) Frlor, relarenceo: Memorandur No, 3.

¡ June 1907, p. Y and Enclosuro 2: Memorandar No. ,

20 June 1807, 23. l and 3: Memorandar No. s.

1 Auguor 1707, 2. 3; Me noranduin No. L, 7 Seitender

195%: 20. d and i.

---

## Page 9

lil lorolverent ln inertion'o lavesilcallos:

in 1!

11ãj 1108 LADONDi polepionod die DCs office

•lis Now Urleans, said that ne was an ex-ClA euloyco,

added that se

teared Carileon would subsvena lla,

and seniosted abslotance or adulce. VUlciael Wi.

LADORDE, to son oi Lawrence, ino old: ionivers ol

Carlacn'n atait that is lat'er pas assoclated sitt

AJORIO FERNANDEZ (de préceda, aub-uaragrap')).

with Gerald Patric: HEMlING, and one "Roy L

•erraoe

LEroy COLLINS? ln iralaíng Cubano as guerrilla

Ilglitero.

MIChAel LABORDE Lab Alao do licateid CLA

In distratalos On 27 Sostenbor 1967 Lawrence 3.

LABORDE ajan called the DCS sillce in New Orleans..

In accurdanco witi Headquortero' Instructiona ha was

Bold that there was nottilni to discuss.

(3) DD! relationando: LABORDE WAS a DDP

contact (rom February or March 1Dbi lo 20 A,ril 1962.

He seriod as acting eastaln of a irasel runod by

FERNANDEZ and ased by lie land Station In Civan

aporatloua.

6. Alfred I. MORAN (201-712772).

None.

(2) Involvement la Gazrison'e investigatlon: A

mezioranda from. DCS New Orleans, 15 Novainbe: 1467,

ropostad that Hinter C. Irako of that olilce and Alfred

I. MORAN arE very good Iriendo, trat Leate altended a

JaIlY DE JIORAN'a ho:no on 11 Novemier 1307, and thai at

REaR LinE MIGRAN Bold Leake that he (MORAN) lad been

lo touch will a inenbar d Garrison's alall, Asslatani D. A.

JA zEn ALCOCK, Who ruestloned MURAN about an

occaston when Cler BEATAAND and MORAN vore in the

VI: 500:: di Eastern Alrlines al lie Now Orloano

Intornational Airport. MORAN told Lease that da hda

o, laion Garrison las an 'Ironclad' case azalno, Clay SHA".

A UCS N.y Orleano report al 13 Deceraber ipel adds dal

¡¡URAN told Lease On 11 Dece :bor 1'957 Lie ALCOCK

end another representatia l Garrleon'e dilice lad abren

hin, so:netire in 1iu?, what was alleged to in a protocory

as lue daily log iraia lie VIP roour ad. the air, 105e.

MORAN

---

## Page 10

14-00000

rocujalced ho uns alcaature and that oi Aresur ¿.

DAVE: (a, Portuent New Orlians arelid8ecl). He seld

that die sane Cla: BERTRAND was pointed cut da dain

an de lint and trial Clay ShAls naie mas Des on the

Hial. ' ACOCK and Nis callengue sald thas a sando sidla:

es-ere bad confined thai sue signalure 'Cler BERTRAND'

tiad seen written is SHAl. E la noted that lie DES

report al l5 November lic i quotes MORAN as sayiay that

SHAL, MaIn lie VIP Too: on to vicaolan aront wilch

ALCOCK questloned MORAN, Thereas the : 3 Decender

1907 reDUrE GUOleS MCRAN ao aaying thai Le did nor aco

SMAV la the roois at that dino.

(3) DDP and DCS reladonailpa:

•(a) DDP. A checr ol MORAN's file showed

that le was cleared a 15 Docember i702 for use

by dilard Station. No sas apprached es 27

Dece:mber 19ul by lies. Carnal T. Dollar, acting

so ishall as the station and through the good offices

Si DCS New OrloanE. Agreeing lo bel, eso Station

ln cover maltaro, bo became president al

MORAN "also perrilla use of he co

coupady as a furdin; recdanier" for

(Cosmear: Manil Stadion cablo 0425,

29 November 1947, does sot Idently ACRAN's own

con,any, bad DEs Nex Orleans has rejorted that

ba was Uin IreR arealdent of Kalvar Coruration,

which ramulactured ricroiln. MORAN has acted

as a opottor for the liaint Station and Jus

recommendad actoral other baskess.not who are

being seed by iso Station. "Ho has also sade

arallaslo several all compenles in thie: ie cons

Interesto lor use la jaciologan: cover' ot certala

orerallonal vesselo o! lid Statlor. He do or has

beas used by. Heade:artora for several activities

drected by the Clidoe a Logladies. Oi Miand Stallon

Personal MCRAN 180.701 Mr. Ray E. MUlard und

Nº. Charles G. C. Tress flormerly DDS!"illce

al Logialco) as call 90 1e8. Dollar. La addlion 8o

•is knows Cores Ealeryrieos

doc, and the Miland Sativa operational ressed Barb.

He aldo inows thai Mand anorsoy Mi. Janeo Costello

---

## Page 11

artel, acco la Station acroides.

Tie lateat

drect :alani Stallon contact of record la dated

in Novo ides 1914: since diat dalo, is ariearo:

DD: Ipserents love been broiered by DCS Now

Urleans.

"and otalion recutts redlect that

ACRAN lo airleod ul Mösors, Lawrence K. Walte,

Alan Warlield, and Jares A. Garrison, the lorior

Director al logolice, now retired.

(b) pes.

LCRAN was (lrot In official

contact with tue DCS Nee Crleans oflice on

21 Ducenter 1so2: Tiere save once illloca

oficial contacte aince then:

He la not the dource

of any DCS resorts, bat to has been mestioned la

one osorational repurt fron the Now Orleans

cifice.

ABUt 2) November 1967 ano lares offictal

contact had occurred do 49 November 1Yot. when

PICRAN signed sane corintato papere lor ACo

Marinc Survey Inc.

#. VICIOr MaNUel PANEOUÉ Y BATISTA (201-250342).

(1) Prior relorence: Moniurandar No. ",

(2) Involveront In Cartleon's lavootigatla: In

a sapod Interstow sia: January 1117 Carlos GUIROGA told

Garriaon dal PANEQUE ta: In charge of a ClA training

, cano cenducted lor Cubane Iron Mila al la bacondo, La..

in August 1953.

(3) DD: relationals: A FOA 10F PANELUE'S U0O

mao granted the Maind Station 32 13 Movernoor 1964.

The Miaind resuoss had stated that he was lo to used 'as an

Infiltres and radio operator", A report of 10 A :guet 1964

ointed that be rod iven Inílltralad into Caba la Juno 1ii;

on 101m1-a1 tho Chrlatan Denocratle Movernent. Wroller

Too used operartonally le aot alaled la PANEUUE'e LAI.

He uno ter-inated ellectre 31 Corovor 1905 lor lact of

an lin bedlate operailonal use.

À. E:LOSANTANA Gallado (23: 935354).

1) "for references: Marorandan No. 2

1 May 19:7, Enclosure 23; Me:norandon No. 3, : Jua

195?, Poclodaro No. li NeMOraRdars NO. 8, 21) JuDe 1958a

---

## Page 12

ii. i and 3i Memorancia No. i, i Sessesses 1968,

(2) Involremen: la Garrison'e Inventigation:

SANTANA pao questioned , Garrisso and stall fran

i2 lu 1) Febrary 196%.

(3) DD: relationally SANTANA sad rocrilled

by the Mland Sallon Incetober: Nua. Ailos sariled valing

lo May 10:3 In a single tilliradoo prilltadoo oradon,

he was terminated la Culoser 1113

# Group ll (Bilal 01 8)

a. Carloo Ju BRINQUIER (2)1 319245).

(:) Prlos retoreocee: Memorander No. 1, 24

A.vril 1957, Enclosure No. li Memorant No. 3,

¿ June 190% 1. bi Mercoraadar No. 4, 11 Jase 1957,

po. 1 aad 3.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's lavestigation:

BRINGUIER hao veen questlosed and poly grasued by

Carrioos. A tone the questluna asted of BRINCUIER

while he man belng polygrazed was welcer ho had been

contacted by ClA. He said Lust he had not.

(3) Des relationants: DoS New Crienna Interviewed

BRINGUIER lour tinies, at Sio request, on 1 and 2 february

1927 and on 5 and i A jail 191%, Ao 01 : 1 0660ber 1907

thoro bad been no laser culace.

* Willain Wayne DAblEts

fil inor relerencea: Memorandon No. 4.

20 JuDe 1948, 2i. 2. S, aná si Memorandars No. 3.

1 Septonaser 1907. p.:.

(2l Invadroneni la Ertiaun's invesigation:

Gordon NOVEL hao stated lal Carrison lo Interested

In DAllElL Racinto of Jasuary 1409. r 13, stases.

"Another Lus Bie Incorporatore al due irlende of

d d

---

## Page 13

evocrable. Cuba /was Willla - Hayne Lalrell.

uno anew! Darld W. /corrie and / Serclo.

Arcacia / 3.1les7 and was sill anotier la the

[i. Grey Bratober colorle st alautio. Tis a States-

¡on repurter ho adaltiod ho was ClA. sillas li.

Turner, the writer of the cled Rajarta article and

ól olies allácra by Ra azarts on ClA and le EBl, statod.

thereln that lie had sorted closely sits Garrison and

he stall fur nise monino. Tie San frascloc» Chronicle.

of 28 Decéi ber 1907 •jauted Garriaon as daying.

"E: ory mosd la Ramparts la accurally slated. "

(3) DoS relationahip: DALZ Eli rad three

CURLaCES WIth DCS New Orloans. They occurred on

i5 Novenbes 1960, 20 Jamrady 19:1, and! February

19h1. Tiey concerned hio peoposala lar a Radio sree Ciba.

c. Gerald Fairie: HEMMING J5. (201-309125).

(:) plur roleronceo: Memorandu:n Rio. 5.

1 Auguel iyo7; Memorandar, punject: Glars ol Carrleon.

Case, 2 Norinber 1907.

(2) Invulvement in Corrison'e Inveeligation:

Michael W, LABORDE told no-rvers di Garrison'o stall

Brad dle lather Lawrence had sorred ior CLA wit. anti-

Castra Cubans, He named "Jerry Patrles", who lo

HEMMING, and one "Roy", probally Leroy COLLING,

as masocialed with Lawrence LABORDE.. He added that

Jerry Patrici aod Roy 'lured Cubans out of money" and

Hemlaood by ClA. On 3 Juy 1907 HE:MING and

an associate: JousiblY COLLINS, went to Garriaon'o

aifice. Trey suld that duay were workln, lor an valdenliled

mazarine and wanied to di a story on tie Garrloos

lavestigalion. HEMMINC lao seen revorted by the FBl

and la too proso as a suldier al fortune was ina given

para--lilas, pralning to and Castro Giban reíngode.

A teletype dl i Sepo: bad 1957.120- Ric TiCS offico lo

Los Angeles siaces thar HAMMING had clal sed that a

4: autoralle contlocated by a sherlil's alice In Los Angeles

had seca isaued to his by ChA.

1%

';,.

---

## Page 14

14-00000

11) I'CS TelatossEl. MENMING WaS lo

contace will tie DOS alico la bos Ampeles detreen

(t800er 109u and Narch 1901. Ho la sto sourco ol

1* DES rEparto On Cu..

de Jack N. ROscrS.

(1) Prlor reierence: Menorandun No. A,

20 Juas 1967, 0. land 9.

(2) Involverent In Garriion's Anveatigatton:

NOCERS hao bron in louch oith Garrinon'e olaff assal

lue pesassination becrase al ROGERS' oolta as

canmitteo counsel for tho Jodne Legialadre Coniitteo.

on VarA nerleai Actiolulea di die Stato ol Louisiana.

Ne rao said that he lo coaridest 'Mat Garriaon can prove

a cloas association ieteon l'awald and Jack Ruby and

cons;dracy involvay Clay 5ras."

(3) Dos relatoasblo: ROGERS nao beon a source

ol Dos New Orionna oloco Sepconder 1954 and le the.

source or coniace" for melre reporta iron that odiico.

Clay SHAW.

(1) Porlor solorences: keinorandun No. 1.

26 Avril 1908, Enciosuro 21; Memorandu a No. 1, 20 June

1967. 5p. 12, 3, Bad s.

(2) Lavolvanoas lo Cartlood's forestigallon:

SHAW was charged by Cartoon lo March 19u7 of coaspiring

to assasslnate President Kannedy. Mia case hao not yos

cana 80 trad, Mesesta 2l January i Dus linko SHAIS lO CLA.

(3) DOS rolaMosabls: SHAI was a contace of the

Das olfier la N:w Orleans iras Deconder 1943 Bo slav 19%i.

Durlay dal perdod Mr. Hunter Leale contacied Min dificially

i.. Ailay dndo. Tiene contacia produced a dal 0l algie reporio.

i. Cecil Marwell SIlILSTONE.

(') Prior rolerence: Мотоґз, subject:

Chart ol Garrison Case, 2 November 1967, p.15.

:19

---

## Page 15

"I: me ulatoly aiter

tho assasolnation, a Miatraug't Undurhill duld felendo

li:al a 00::1-auto00 i0sa CLA clique Wilch nad been

iraltcertos an sarineles and suo-ruanday was Irplicated

In bie dobasolnadion."

Tio close Carrison- Turner

asso lation and (arrioon'e rouching for tie securacy

ol lise Moiasta accons BugeBE BiAl Garriaon may

rioka ol.llar aosertlons unon ile case cones to trial.

:(3) DCS relastomand: UNDERHILL aSan

.Introciuons contact of the DES New York ofice frur

Lato 1949:80 830i1d-1930'0. Ho sao not'anployed by

tral olilco, Tio purpono oi contact wao la d tala pontilivo

sorolyn Intolliganco.

5. GrUs, IN (LoRal oi 19)

a. Valentino ASHWORTH (20:- 337650).

(1) Prior rolaroncos: Nome.

(2) lavolvemost In Carrison'a lavodigation:

CiM P CEROVOs 19L2 ASHNCRTI sens o lotter leon

Locouille, sociolona, to tia Cubas Assassador Ja

Mexico. Ho silerad informatios asoul tha "Caban Raldeo

Compand' and the "¡poslo'o Reriludonary More nont"

In excranjo lor holo in dioctiag lo Gros. Ho dald that

CLA dld not iare the saino Iafornadon.. Arrostad oa

1s May lacù sor laventisation a audo thels, ASHWORTH

Buld an 7'Dl siocial agent dial ho isa particialod la

se voral saldo on Caba, dat lo vas a allor and an export

In es, loulies, and that ClA vao avare ol llo actirdiles

and cuilá renuide In'ormados aroul theri Arreatod

again sn 20 A:ril 1'9ul ior posocoslos oi a atolen

Antonoullo, ASHWORTH weB sent to tha jall in haro

Charlos, boulolana. A lollor la ralo, anc Richard

PHILLiS, WOL LO FBl O SAY tAS ASHWORTH clalod

to have shared an avart ent ia cilo wit Los liaray

Camala, duet iowald and he bolosgod to d jrou of

New Coloand Carana mio Allied Presidant Kounedy and

15

---

## Page 16

td-0n0d

"Cavald was a nise, (ale) and ilda's lire a abra.

Biat "Kennody'o abstoo (sic) vero, as was iowald

tralned uy die CLA"

• ite.

On ls Colber 1907 a depoty

sherillndulord the F'DI datan unddened aoslotane."

district ntiornoy on Carrlion's sinff had cocir lo Late

Charlos ono month earlder and had inter dewed

ASHWORTH for an hour. Accordin; 80. WHILLIPS.

Cartoon'e reprodentallres have guratoned ASHWORTH

abone four stion and bave aered him l ho gao a riember

SCIA. TIe U.S: Haine Corpo advined on 3 Jinary

1768 Bhas ASHWORTH enileted on 24 Deceinsor. 1952;

was honorably clocharged on is karch 1003, goonliated

the mostiday, une them corvod'unill 3 Deconbor 1934.

wons slven s bad conduce dlocharge tallowing a general

court narilal us wilch lie wao lound gulley of unfamiud

mosento dad lailure lu dissy lawíul orders.

(3) ClA reladionahlo: Nome.

b. W. Quy BANETER

(i) orlor relorences: Me:norandora No. 1,

26 A rll 1957, Esclosure 3; Me rorandal No. 6.

8 May 1961, Enclosure 1.

(2) Involvement la Garrison's Investigatlon:

Maarto 1 January 1060, 1 47, states that a lorner

Minutenan Daed Jerry Milton BROCKS had Bald that

BANISTER was the "inad of the Anti-Con-unlo Lesque

sitte Carlbbean.," Ramparts asserts that tila "league"

was :assertedy as doter-eilary between the CLA and

Carlbboarinourgoncy.noveranta."

(3) ClA relatloneal,: None. Accarding to our

Eccordo, Maurice Briona CATLIN SI. (uco below) was

legal counsel a0l, as Ray arta daya, to ta "Auld-

Crnmiunion League of tre Caribbean" but do. Cir "Anti-

Co:910 a Casalleo ol the Airerlead". Fbl reporting

clearly Indicates Lil GATLIN was the sule mender ul

Cids national disia,, An FBI repurt of id Fouruary 1901

aNd BANISTER as saying that de had never leen an

alíscor or rember oi le "prou?', GATiIN'o clalaa lio

the contrary notwithstanding.

---

## Page 17

C.: NaMICO BIDOL CATiINE: (201-53454).

(1): Falor selerence":

Nona.

16) „lavodre nont to Garrioon'o Investigato::

tan orts of January this quotes one Jerry Nuion

to bare jeeno

"ort of protago: as GATLIN. BROOKS

chatred tant about 1962 GATLIN.

"in d soli lin iortant.

nanoor"; ronarked lut to bad 5100, 009 di Cho siomey

carnariod for a Trence rigit wlai cligua tralwan

going to attaine lo asssoiloate General Do Gaullo.

*CATLIN dod la Pananalo: jir, al tease ol slaty one.

FBl rojorts on hir clie mocos wis know bla well.

no anylog that he was lonand and shouid have been committed.

He died Liardo A: Morales, Condul Goneral of do

Donlocan Republe In How Orlenne, ouf al relatlrely

large tars is tho lato 1150'0. Moraloe sos:rs 10 have

considered Mir an ayer to iresenting lie Interests ai

Trulllo, although GAJill une not so reglatored slis

the Dositinent al Julics, GATLIN uned lia allasca

Edward FAIRCHILD, Jares COCHRANE, RObert NATSON.

and Ciarles EVENETT. A ty:ical oileade occurred in

Norenoei Deceinbor 1991, When GATLIN went to Fizone,

Oregon, bocause ho lad a fiorry that jesse De Galindes

(con only tallored to iave boon kidna, ed la New tori.

by Trulllo benchtion) gao hiding out arnon, Bascue

abeas-hordc:a there. Co 2 Docenber 1457 GATLIN

predésted insell do aa EBl a›ecial agent in Lagone and

Bald tini "li bo muo iound doad in Engono le wao marder,

not suicide'.

(3) CiA roladlonahl: Nose.. As CO report ol

10 December 1953 atarea kial on 11 COlosor 1913 GATLIN

calind oo an to ollico, sald lal riot sexe scheduled lo

necur la Guaterala, and added tuat so thougir so: * CLA

ropreventalived tiere male so in tanser. "He dusioctod

fial ne be lurishod the naños of agente uno sere siding

0s :ne nbore di lie Cor innot argaalsalion an tril i.e

could present lials bels; assassieated in error. "

He also susgested scat CIA glue nia 175. isi to lundtro

annaplantlun of is 8p Co:. indol loadero la balin A rorica.

---

## Page 18

di David h. FERRIE.

(!) Perlor relerences: Me:oranda" No. !;

•1 Auguor 1967, p. d, Meisorandors Nu. 7, IJ Sesteraber

1967. 790.20

(2) tavelroncn do Carroon's davesguasion:

Rainto a January lad. Do.

su and's, dos arises

ondaroltico Garrioon's cariler charees diat FERRIE

mo orployed by ClA do anti-Captro acditiy. Maaria

cites an undentited source as claining tat fERRIs

had confided that be 'bes worlng for le CLA resculas

Cavana out of Castro prleung"

13) CIA rolatlonahip: None.

"'Loran (ur Lawrence) Eugene HALL (2U1-253+11).

(i) Pelor rolerences: Memorandun No. 5.

7 Auguet 1987, Enclosurea: 3, 14, and 23.

(2) Involvesent do Garrison's Investigardon:

Preed and radio accounts a 4) Decemier 1907 through

• JamunTy :913 arased that Gartient, on 10 Deearbor 1907,

eubpiensed tree nen as material vinesees.

They aro

Thoro Liverd BECKHAN d Orial, Neuraeka; koran

Eugosa HAsk of Kernville, Calliornia: and Lawrence John

MONARD JI, OÍ 10S Angeles. The subpoenao alleged that

HALL and HOWARD checked Into the Dallas Y. M.C. A.

In Octoser 1803 and ren.alaed in Dallas will tho acassination.

Mall lo said lo have brought a weapon to Dallas. The

subpoonne further allegee that HAil and NOV ARD sere

anBoclated in Dullao wiin Jaci Raby and wits othera, locluding

Oswald, bollered to haro been involved ta the asassination.

Tie Garrison charged added that In New Orleano HALL

And HOWARD were asaaclated With FERRIE and that la

• Florida they had taken sare in ClA-suonsored guerrilla

¿raininz for salde on Ciba. HALl denied ever reeling

1 88

---

## Page 19

1d-0d0

Onwald, Ruby, ferrle, "up dayon elar Involved

am the addsoninalios of anyone over mentoned oy

Garrison or sayiody elde

(3) CLA roladonahly:

None. HALL srived

la'tse U.S. Arny.

1947-1952, Heat Ger rasy. and

was given an honorable die arge for pedical

reasons.

According so bin fatrer.. No

hos du ferod a nental

pressions and le 84ll sulect to serere depresalon.

Ho has seen arrested several lines.

'He clairs to. be

a soluter al fortune uno once served Castro'o cause.

sus soïno ino anow alis falax that no la lylag.

I. Lawronce Johe HOWARD Ir.

(!) Ortor relerences: None.

(2) lavolve ront Is Garrison's in eetigation:

See preceding sus- aragraph.

According lo the Houston

Chronicle of 31 Décenber 1967 the suo,senn allogen

ChAs HOWARD was engaged la CLA-sponsored guerrilla

training lo Florida, Loulolans, and Teras.

RATart of

January 176s resonin the old ator, that tiro: Sylvia ODIO

van vialted in Dallas In late Sopterder l9il by three male

strangero: Leopoldo, Angelo, and "Icon Corald".

Ranzarta adda tras "just selose the V'arren Royore went

so preos, the fBl located three men joastoly Identical wien

1150. Colo's provocativo •daltora," They Were HALl,

HOWARD, and one Willian SEYMCUR, who lad an alibl.

Ran arts alleges thal HALL firer admisted out. later dented

that the three had called on Mea. CLIO, HOWARD denied le.

(3) CLA relatlonship: Nose.

8. Judes RIcCo KlVBLE.

(1) Prior reference: Menorandura No. 6.

7 Septeruber 100%, j. 3.

(2) lavalve nont in Garriaca' larentgaton:

Rancaste of January "9i3 Biales Bar NIMBLE ap ruached

nienbers oi Garrioon'o stail and sald thai on the day

19

aii.

....

---

## Page 20

aites Daild FEÁNLE died, de drove a lou Ku kam

Plan official, Jacs HELM, tO FERNIE's apartsem

"HEt ca je out illo a natchel craned wil carre.

-der 'ho laced in a san.

Bale de jostl sor." KNiSLE

cind-sed that In 1962 he dew lo Montreal Mey FERNE

on Minutenion business.

Snorily alterward, so stoned

his Nue Iron Allanta, saylag io lad net a ClA coacact.

'They'll sover, got me sacà to New Orloana, "se iuired."

he mao arrested, homeror. In Tania, where Gariton's

men cuesiloned lim. He sald that to had once marked

special isolinmente for the CLA, and in vestficadin

nured sla Agency contacts and the boy nuinber at li

Laimyeste Street station tiey anelined Win. He arerred

he had recontacted the CLA aller' Walter Sheridan bad

counseled him to say nothing iu the DA and go to Canada."

An FAl report of 12 Jacuary 194o alated that men la Boo

office ol the aberlit oi Arovelleo parioh, Loutaines, tad

Bald lie: BlinDLE ls a virological llar who hao sad

frequen: problema mito tio police and who lo arom to

Molence.

Deputy Sherif Charles KIMBLE, hali : nashes

of Jules, advised that ilo Grosses lad made cerato false

sease neata to draw arrestion so hangoll, in the done al

getime ose or jail.

(3) CLA relationshl): None: On 1 August: $37

KIMBLE telephoned DCS New Orleans lo say thal Garrison

was prylng to connect his wiin CLA,, although be dio not

inor wby, and that Garrison lad accnoed lim ol taxing

nore papero from Ferrie'a apartment.

N. PA'S LOGAN.

(!) Orlor references: None.

(2) Involverent la Carrison'o Investigati

Rain arts of January 1yo8, :.

iJ, saye, "The FrieDid of

Democradle Cuba was (ounded January ), 195:.. ..

Govera rent adolsora to the friands, asya an inior-ant

who was closely involved with the grous, were a ClA ran

nained Logan and the FBl'a Regis Kennedy . ...

On li sday 1967 ibe New Orloans ofilce of the FBL roporting

20

---

## Page 21

Information stained tron Gordon Duane NOVEL.

quoted lin so carlos chat Villa Wayno DALZ ELL

(see abore) ind seen in pouch wish kennedy and with.

CLA BUlOjO In LOGAN. NCVEL attributed unde

informiadich to DAliELLe landlady.

(3) ClA rolallanahlo None. The DCS New

Orleans alice reported on 20 June 1967 that Bere has

neveribeen a LOGAN la the oilice and that die recorde

do not refect deállage wich anyone of that name.

Headquartero traces haie not revealed a LOGAN La

New Orleant.

I. Richard CADeNAGELs (208-74-537%

• (i| Prior rolorences: None.

(2) levalve sent la Garrison'o Investization:

Raciarta al Januiry 19:3 stated that NACELL 'a0 a

highly decoraled lalandry. castals In the Korean war who,

he cladria, Bubsequently sacamo a ClA agont.... he

had sent a regiotered letter do J. Edgar Hoover warning

him of lho linpondlaj assasstration, which he saye wae

then scheduled for the latter pair ol Sestenber... and

the lettor had gono unanewered." According lo Rainiarts.

NAGELl slabnod that too grown called "Bravo Clus" and

"Delta Clus" jolood forces to Mll President Kenandy.

"Maanwhile ClA sot rind ol lio alass and sent devoral aganto

Into the feld to ascertain whethor they were 'for roal".

NAGELL saya that ho uno one of the agento dlepatched.

Nagoll says lot no waa Instructed to arrow" the patey.

that la kill lino Biser the assadolmadlor."

(3) CIA relationals: Nose. NAGELL WAS ONE DE

ox crow 50r0es6 1nd-B-21 which crasbed at iel power

on 23 November 19:4 near Felendabl; Alsport. He was

the pole sursivor. The plane was not luand for 11 1/2

hoars. Ho was unconocious and had sullered sevore head

Injurles. Ca li Novander 1962 NAGELL Wrote De FBI

in New Tori lo say dial so ranted to ongoos the Dejart.ent

o1 Alcoholle Baverago Control ol Calliurnla. On

i5 December 1902 be adrieed the FBI in Jackaonille.

21

---

## Page 22

14-00000

Florida, that he had been récrulted by thie Sordeto la

kasilajion. D. C., and had copsacied CLA la Virilnda

on Sorrierdero: In January ices he was diagnised

al que YA cog ilal la Bay Plues, Florida, as baile

"chronic Srala syndro re associated with lirals traud

when eha loral reacion characteriaed by janeiro.

aBaresadro, and jaranuld lcaturea.".

On d0 September 1761

he was arrested ior ilring mu rounde lato the celllag s

: A ians do I! Tado, Teras.

He then attensted eulclde.

On lÀ ATH 1004 NAGELL DONE 8O tO EBl a létior la

whlch he salsely clal.ned thias te had sens sheni an earller

lotter, dated Sentenber 19.3 and Alined "Jack Kraner.

• 1o mara 110:. 050u8 the assassination.

J. Desiald ?. NORTON.

•(i) Prlor rulerences: Menorandurs No. t.

7 Sapezber 196%. pi. l and 21 ile norandurn No. 1.

13 Septe aJar 19:7. > 3; Me:rorandan, subjeet: Donald

P. (OT I.) NORTON, 14 Augnat lyi7.

(2) Aarolvemon, lo Carriaon'e larestigation: la

Vancourar, Casada, la an Iniervlew pustlated on 3 Auger

1967, NOSTON cladried lo be an ex-clA arployee who

delivered $154, 000 to FERRU, lor Brandier lo Cuss aB

mho stered on tears SHAy $50, 900 lo se delivered to

Cawald in Monierrey, Maxied.

On 15 July 1947 Charlee

WARD al Carriaon's stall accoraganied NORTON tO

Now Orloane for a taood indervlow.

Ka-yario of January 1969

clarind Lass NORTON wao lis,rassod indo ClA's dervice in

1957 sader Breal al esjauro a8 a langaarual. According

to anis article, NORTON was Bold by CLA so taxe a longi

quiet vacation decaio of sorrietring dual was haupeniag

la New Urleans.

(3) CIA relationards Nons. NORTON scried sa

a privase and PPO in tie U.S. Alr force iron: 1l Coloser

1999 8u 24 Jacuary 1951, wien he was diachargod lor

paychiattle reasons.

k. Gordon Daze: NOVEL.

(1) Frlor solerences: Meiroranuu. " No. 1.

26 A,ril 1901, Enclosure 19; Mamoranden No. 6,

82

---

## Page 23

a May 1907, Enclosuro 20; Memorandu,, No. di

8u June 1357, 20. 3-10i Monorándari No. i.

1 barto.nber.1047, 23. 2-3; Minioraodun No. 1.

11S6.0..0e6 007. po

Also :senorandari,

subject:

Gordon Duane Novel, Di May 194?.

(2) lavolvorons la Carriaon'o Investigadon.

• Bith NOVEL and one o! Llo lawyers lave clalied that

se worked for ClA. Garriaon lad dougie, volll lalrly

rocently, to estracile NOVELiroin Columbuo, Onlo.

but vile jez succosa. Garrion has cladred, and

NUVEL bus agroed, La NOVEL, Allue Inaligalion o1

CIA, Pook part lth store la steallaz expliotros (rosa

a bunker la Hound, boulolana, NOVEL tas urtitos e

lotter which denilles tint de was Involved in CIA'a

operallon Doable Chek. Ramsarta oi Jansary 1908

revento the práncial lies aDout NOVEL'O CLA died.

(3) CLA relationahli: None.

•Do Les HATreY OSWALD.

(1) Prior referenceo: nonorandun, No. J.

1 June 1967, 1. l; Aloniorandura No. 7, 13 Boptenses

1907, p. t.

(2) Involvement la Carrioon'e investgallon.

Carriaon has resentedly crassed that OSWALD wao a

"satoy" who dld not illl anyone and that USWALD worsed

for ChA. Parrarts d JaBuary 1906 Days that ChA

tralned OSWALD at the Abugl Naval Station In Japas,

Thoro ho was laugal covort orationo sad tuasian.

Is aldo allozes that CIA arrangod OSWALD's doloction

to lse boriet Unlon.

(3) CLA relationaida: Nono.

(1) Prlor seterences: Memoranduin Ns. J,

1 June

19680. 10 3: Mainerado, No. 7, 13 Serle riaos

1907. 0.6

23

so.. ...

---

## Page 24

(2) laradio end la Correun'o Investigadon:

mao dolied by CLA: Ho clad a that ClA ined RUBY

an a'say san" so sain le ariafor Cuona entie groupe.

(J) CLA relatlonships None.

1. Leward Steror SUCOS, & Jack S. MARTIN

(1) Tor relorences: Memorandan No. 4

Co June 190T, i 3. 10, and 11

(2) Invalra-son do Corsioon's lavestigallon:

MARTIN, formerly e:ployed by Guy Badlater, pow

terma bineoll as la estigatos for Carriaon. A DCS

New Orlonna ro sore il 23 So,tanber 1107 statod that

MARTIN tele boned a Irlond of MI. Mloyd Ray al 0200

boura, on or anarily belure that date, oald that ho wan

one of Garrison's torestigatoro, and tried to jump the

Irlend abost 1l:. Ray. (Other reporta have stated that

MARTIN tenda t care such calle in the oall houra

Phan drunx.) Ascordog to Raniarto of January 1De8,

MARTIN alleges liat Ferrle ouce concanded a Clul.

Alr Padral eçuadron of which Cowald vas a monber..

Furiar, Ferrlo alle jodly saugit Carold to shoot a cille

"in a rolescore Gigid.

Forrie becano lavolved with

Oswald in the assaosination plot.

(3) ChAsiadoos: None. MARTIN, however.

hae clalned that se soried for ClA. Au FIl resort stated

Cal Etward Siewart SUGGS was lagerarlaler in 1932 in

Hovoron, Torao. He was wanted at tat iime on a'charge

Tho Idendficalian Dirision rocorde do

not show the dissasilion of to charse." On 19 Dec0...00r

¡Pie bo sao admided to lie vayeilairie ward, Charley

108.100l, New irisana, moulelans, as a inantal ratient.

---

