# 104-10216-10102

## Page 1

104-10216-10102

air is

CONFIDENTIAL.

1-16-02-971

10 May 1911

Chies, Haabington Flald Office

la. Stunts

0291

Inforal DCB Roguiremente for Irving Davidso

AlO B

I Jeen Claude has been deacribed by sons as shy or as one who

will not be villiag to act the passive role for long. He le sot a man

De De pasted around, and he la unlibaly to ba arrone'a puppets saile

others my he lo an idolt, not overly intelligent, a playboy.

Is the

nourch inous his vell, five he evalustion, alense. Acecrding to the

Lachlaston Post, of 10 lay, runors are that Jean-Claude ban Fled Haltl.

ibes source have any Intorant ion?

2= How does the nource feel about Duvaller's ability to retain

the Iraaldency? To anver the sbove question, detalle and logle mast

be given.

tho is of ure his chief aduleers? Will he accept gulcance

Iron hia adriesa? i111 Duvaller be a one san decision maker?

30

Please coment on the prenet relatichiy betreen the Presidert.

and the follovlag:

Hia Mothe

Mole Dartoe Doniuique (bla sloter)

Mas comtaique (brother {e-law)

de

Cal Cande Raguond (Clief o& Stuff)

®•

Francs Ramin (Chief of Polics of Port no irince)

fo- Ine Destr (Brad of Ion Ion Incortes)

Clorls Desinor (Porner Minister of Pirance)

rela Jacquen (Comander of the Presidential Guard)

ackner Orbrone (Minister of Defense and Dotertor)

Will Cabrone be the etrongen in he ner goverment?

If not, she vill bet

J02E: Mayo outalde of question le lo, the source

be more

han just general)

CONFIDENTIAL

Easter Ban &

L

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL®

SUBJECT

Deformal. DCS Regulresento for Irving Davideon

Wat le the attitude of the och tovard the possibility

of na Irresion from outside the country? Of trouble froa withia the

my Does the source ballere, that 1s trouble starts, that ti

med forces will remin loyal to the governent? Reasons vi

or why not 1o detail.

, except of "Commiate an

of the nou governaut!

• How succesaril will the neu Minister of Information D

Mes cinena be ta pelling the ney lunge of alel

JAMES R. MURPHY

CONFIDENTIAL

---

