# 104-10177-10072

## Page 1

104-10177-10072

INFORMATION REPORT:

1714 dis d

2-0 alone tetarian airline Sit tie

Rol (094510101id diabed 1.a1e LaDIes.

and on +44 4541710381 de serpidly of prich in

NOFURN/CONCINTED WUNTROU

COUNTRY

MAUECT

Parama Cuba

Cuban Aspirations in United Nacions

DATE OF IN7O.; 1a March 1955

PLACE ACQUIRED FAtAA, PRINTA ClEY (8 March 2955)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. OF PAGES

REQUIREMENT NO.

REFERENCES

C5 - 60900

13 April 1955

1

RD

SOURCE:

INE SOURCE PYALUAYIONS IN THIS RINCES ARE DEFINITIVE.

IME APPRAISAL DE CONTENT iS TENTATIVE.

(FOR KEY SEE IN'PESE)

Person with excollent contacts in Panananian Government (B).

Appraisal of Content: 2.

Do Not Reproduce

Background Use Only

RETURN TO CIA

1. On 4 March 1955 Emilto NUNEZ Portuondo, Cuban Ambassalor to the United Nations,

2222

wrote to Octavio FABREGA, Panamanian Minister of Foreign Relations, regarding

Cuban aspirations for a seat on the Security Council In the U. N. General

NUNEZ wrote that after

seven months in the Ministry of Labor Fresident Fidgencio BATISTA had offered him

his choice of any Ministry, the post at ine Embassy in Washington, or continuation

a3 Cuban Ambassador to the U. Mo, which post he had accepted.

2.

NUNE? recalled

that In the U. N. General Assembly of last soar Cuba had aspired

to a seat on the Security Council and had had the

pronise of Panamanian supporg

in this matter: horover, Cuba had withdran when Peru claimed precedenco in 1t

rint to a sest on the security vowill

He also indicated that at present

Cuba is soliciting support, through its diplomatic representatives,

for a seat

on the Security Gouncil which will meet in November 1955,

and, because at present

there 1s no other Latin Anerican menber of the U. N. with similar aspirations,

ha doos

not anticipate any conilict of interest.

NUNE stated that the Cuban

request for support had been replied to affirnatively by Chilo, Argentina, Hon-

duras, Haiti, Costa Rica, the Dominican Rapublic, El Salvador, and Pers

3.

NUME? then

asked FABREGA to roply favorably as quickly as possible to the Cuban

request for support in this matter.

NUNS? added that if he becones a member of

the Security Council FABREGA may consider that he will represent Panma as well

as Cuba.

He reminded FABREGA that, becaise of recommendations which NUNEZ made,

Cuba voted tri the General Assembly for Ricardo ALFARO, Panamanian Jurist, for a

position on the Intornational Court of Justice as well as a position on the In

tornational lur Commission, when this was requested by the Panamanian Govemment.

B-02-0404

122.213

125-93

5-B-I-9-1

NOPORN, CONTIRUSS CON "ROI

HAVA

WITIN Z1

16-7

MiRECY

4ZP-7323

Ho Projant

53 - 00 0 00

TAN NE

CB +

Ja

1/pv

---

