104-10429-10247

m

SECRET

2 May 1975

SUBJECT : The Photo of an Unidentified Individual in the Narren
Canmission Report: A Factual Chronological Survey

REFERENCE: Memorandum by David W. Belin to Mr. E. Harry Knoche,
15 April 1975 (Attachment A)
_ 8
1.. Reference memorandum suggests it would be appropriate to
reconsider full disclosure at this time of the circumstances and factual
data relative. to the Subject. The purpose of this survey is to permit a
realistic evaluation of the suggestion. : cn

Background
2. This examinatton and summery of the record concerns a cropped

photograph considered by the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as the Warren Commission) and
introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibit No. 1! The photograph
(together with others of the same individual) originated from a highly

See Hearings Before the President's Commission on the Assassination

of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as Hearings), Vol. XX, p. 691.

SECRET



13-00000

SECRET

sensitive intelligence operation being conducted in October 1963 by the

CIA and (ax

uthorities~against the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies in Mexico City.

3. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop information .

on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photograph were
made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the afternoon of

22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that day, ©
assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies were conveyed by
an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval
Attaché to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoing
investigation. One photograph , cropped by the FBI, was shown to

Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's mother) in ‘Dallas: on the .. :
evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. coum. :

4, The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of events
at pp. 364-365 and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately resutted in :
Mrs. Marguerite QSWALD's allegation that she had been shown’ a cropped
photo of Jack RUBY the day before he murdered her son. (A further
complication conpounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that
when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance
before the Canmission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washington in

a slightly different manner.)

5. No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET



13-00000

SEEGCaRuewian

politicized, rigidly deterministic interpretive climate that has been
nurtured by the media over the past decade about the Kennedy Assassina~
tion. The photograph, acknowledged now not to be RUBY, has continued to
preoccupy "specialists" and has become the centerpiece of another
hypothesis that holds OSWALD to have been "Framed" by the teeter a

double in his activity in Mexico City.?

.
Lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Mexico City Stay

6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay in

” Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the morning .of
2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentiffed man a

originated. during OSWALD's stay there.- It is important, ‘therefore; to
an understanding of the acquisition and handling of the photographs by
the Mexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and did with —
the information it developed about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with.’
Headquarters action on that information. an

. 7. From all credible evidence known to.this time (none, incidentally,
added since the exhaustively unique work of the Warren Commission),
Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2) partial days--
about 116 hours in.all--in Mexico City from about 10:00 a.m. 27 September

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not
Oswald” by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New York Review
of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Attachment A).

err ort



13-00000

SECRET

1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. His place of residence was a
small commercial traveler hotel, not frequented by "gringos”--the

Hotel Commercio--where he was registered under alias. Exhaustive and
detailed interviews and interrogation by the Mexican authorities and

the FBI, after the assassination, established that in the recollection of

all hotel personnel he left early, and returned late each day of his stay.

8. Assuming, and Blowing. for the fact of Tate arrival and early
departure, that he slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39
hours), there remain sone 78 hours of activity to be accounted for. -
Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods
during 27, 28 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the
entire period was technical. The Station had no live source ONL)

agent) coverage ei ther uni lateral oF from Mexican Tiaison

9.. It should be noted that OSWALD wes in no sense “under investi—
gation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and
return to the U.S,, 1959. - 1962, were known to Mexico Station files
before 10 October 1963, when the bare bones of his biography were
forwarded by Headquarters in response to a Station cabled report of
8 October which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be
a contact by an Anerican for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR. This
was indicated and deduced from technically acquired information ‘on
1 October, which was the First and only occasion in which OSWALD

identified himself (partially) by true neze.

SECRET



13-00000

SECKEA

"70: At no time during his stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire
a photo of OSWALD. A careful review of al] coverage, voice intercept,
as well as photographic, of both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies was
conducted by the Station on 22 and 23 November 1963 after the assassina~
tion, going back to materials from August 1963. It is, therefore, fim ~
that there was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any time during his
Mexico trip or stay in Mexico city. Moreover, although it had made a
cabled request on 15 October, the Mexico Station had na photo of OSWALD
‘in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters—which did not
have one either--before 22 November 1963.

11. 2uettg Fits intensive review of voice intercept transcripts

NS by the monitor and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter—
cept——which had been reported to Headquarters and disseminated to the ;
interested members of the intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD
was a Nay and FBI case under the Delimitations Agreement, and potentially
of interest to the Department of. State)--turned up matches based or —
content with materials intercepted on 27 and 28 September 1963. These
matches were reported to Headquarters on 23 November 1963. Analysis
based on voice comparison (except for what could be recalled by the ,
monitor--and this was-not an insignificant element because of the.
memorably. poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

aN

SECRET


13-00000

SECKELE

12° It must be stressed that the voice intercept and photographic
coverage was not (and normally is not) processed in “real time.” The
means of acquisition and the volume of the information precludes anything
but the spot reporting of items judged by the monitor to be of more than
ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in summary logs. Full texts of ”
selected items require consultation of the tape and either a full tran-
scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage tends to becone

>
available in quantity lots which requires scanning and selection on a ©

“rapid and accelerated basis in four or five day “peaks.” One of .the

"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more speedy
review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is the mention of.
a name. This was precisely what otcurred in the second of ‘two conversa~
tions on 1 October with the Soviet Enbessy, during which the speaker said
he.was “Lee OSWALD." ‘It was. this information reported by the Station to
Headquarters in its first indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

“13, The Mexico Station did one more thing in-its 8 October report ~
on Lee OSHALD based on its 1 October voice intercepts: it coupled the
data with descriptive information.it had acquired fron a sensitive
collateral source--a photograph of amale individual, apparently an
American, who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy on 1 October. ~
The Station reported this detail on the 8th as a matter of coincident
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the data deduced fron
the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET



13-00000

©

SECRET

Lee Harvey OSWALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay

14. One additional element of background must be stipulated now as
the final precondition to understanding the relevance (or irrelevance)
of the photo of the unknown individual placed in the chain of, evidence
on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Agent Bardwell ODUM: what was the
totality of CIA Mexico's coverage of OSWALD's activity as of the after-°

noon of the 23rd-when all available coverage had been checked?

15. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably
inferable to be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) voice intercepts as follows:

“a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico City time.
Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national,..a local employee 6f the Cuban’ : eS
Embassy, Consular section,.a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the man ‘that the
American citizen was there, $he one who wants a visa for Cuba on
his way.to the Soviet Union, and he wants to know with whan he was
talking there. because she (Silvia.DURAN) had sent him to the Soviet
Embassy saying that if they accepted him and gave him. a visa, then
the cubi ins’ (Embassy) would also give him a visa without further
paper. work , only advising Immigration in Cuba.» The American, she

says, wants to know with whom he had talked there because he says
he was ‘told there would be no: problem. The man in the Soviet

Embassy ‘says:to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SECRET



SECRET (

Silvia DURAN explains the same thing to him. This man says to
leave a name and telephone number and says he will call back.
Silvia DURAN gives the telephone 11-28-47 (Cuban Consulate).

She also takes advantage of the. conversation and states she has
moved: and wants to advise’ the Soviet Enbassy of her change of
address so that’ she can receive the Soviet Embassy’s Bulletin.

The man'says to call KOUKHARENKO to give her new address. then he
asks the name of the Consul or Cultural Attaché. StIvia DURAN says
the name is Teresa PROENZA and the telephone number is V4-13- -26.

The man says thanks.

2 September 1963 (Friday), 1626 hours Mexico ci time.

An unidentified male, a Soviet, calls the Cuban Consulate, asks ,

Silvia DURAN if the Anerican had been there. Silvia DURAN Says he ~

is there now. The Soviet says the American showed papers fram the
Consulate in Washington, that he wants to go to the Soviet Union 7
and-be there for a long time with his wife, who is Russtan, but
the answer has not come fron Washington in respect to this problen,
and according to this procedure it takes four or five months, but
without having permission fron the Soviet Union they should ask, or
better said, they cannot issue a visa there without asking Washing-
ton. However, according to this. man, he showed a letter indicating

he was a member of an organization in favor of Cuba and that the

Cubans said that they cannot issue a visa without his having a visa —

SECRET



13-00000

“7

ran
(oi

SECRET

for the Soviet Union, and now he (the Soviet) does not know what to
do with him (the Anerican), because they have to wait for an answer
from Washington.

” Silvia DURAN agrees the same problem exists with the Cubans,
that the problem with him (the Anerican) is that he does not know
anyone in Cuba. and therefore if that is true it will be difficult
for him to get a visa for Cuba, because he was thinking of proces-
sing his visa (for the Soviet Union), because he knew it would
require waiting a long time for his visa to the Soviet Union while
in Cuba, and fran there go to the Soviet Union. The Soviet said .
the thing is that if his wife right now were in Washington she
would receive her visa right now, or permission, ‘from the’ Soviet :

Union, to return to-her country, she is going to receive her visa in :

Washington but having this visa, she could communicate to any place
this permission, for example here or any place she could receive it
(visa or permission), but right now they do not have them.

Silvia DURAN says certainly. and they cannot give a Jetter either
because they do not know if the visa will be approved. “The Soviet
Says he cannot give a letter or recommendation either because he
does not know him (the American) and asks to be excused ‘for

-
bothering her. Silvia DURAN says that is all right and many thanks.

c. 28 September 1963 (Saturday), 1151 hours Mexico City time.

Silvia DURAN calls the USSR Embassy and talks to an unidentified

SECRET



SCCRET

Soviet. She says that in the Cuban Embassy there js a iiorth
American who was at the Soviet Embassy. The Soviet says wait a
minute. Silvia DURAN speaks English with someone--and comments in
Spanish that they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99 and to take the
number down--Silvia DURAN then says the: American citizen is going ~
to talk with you, i.e., the Soviet. The American first speaks
Russian and the Soviet speaks English. They continue in English.
The American talks® broken Russian and says I was in your Embassy and
spoke to your Consul. Just a minute. A Soviet takes the phone and
asks the Anerican in English what does he want? The American says
please speak Russian. The Soviet says what else do you want? The .
American says I was just now at your Embassy and they took my : :
address. The Soviet says I know that. The American, in hardly
recognizable Russian, says I did not know it then. I went to the
Cuban Embassy to ask them for my address, because they have it.

The Soviet-says.why don’t you. come again and leave your address
with us, it is not far from the Cuban. Embassy. The American. says
I'1l be there right away.

a! 1 October 1963 Tuesday), 1031 hours Mexico City time.
An unknown: male ‘(Anerican) calls the Soviet Embassy, ‘the Military

Attaché's number, 15-69-87, and says to an unidentified Soviet
respondent: I was at your place last Saturday and talked to your
Consul. They said that they would send a telegram to Washington,

10

SECRET



13-00000

Ne

SHESCaRwea

and I wanted to ask you if there is anything new? The Soviet says
I would like to ask you to cai] another phone number? Please write

it down: 15-60-55, and ask for a consul. Thank you.”

e. 1 October 1963 (Tuesday), 1045 hours Mexico City time.

The same person who phoned a day or so ago and spoke in broken
Russian speaks to-OBYEDKOV (a Soviet Embassy guard). He says:
This is Lee OSHALD speaking. I was at your place last Saturday and
spoke to a consul, and they said that they would send a telegram to
Washington, so I wanted to find out if you have anything new? But
I don’t remember the name of that consul. OBYEDKOV says: KOSTIKOV.
He ts-dark (hafy.or skin-= 2). OSWALD says yes. My name 1s GSMALD.
( OBYEDKOV says, Just a minute, I'1] find out. They say that they
have not received anything yet. OS!ALD says: Have they done
anything? OBYEDKOV says: Yes, they say that a request has been
sent out, but nothing has been received as yet. QSWALD says, and.
what . . . ? OBYEDKOV hangs up. : - :

16. Each of these items, including the texts of the raw intercepts,
were read by, discussed with, and-examined by Warren Comission staffers
in Headquarters and at the Mexico Station during a stay from & - 13 April
1964.3 AI] were made available promptly to the FBIT

3 The Warren Commission group that visited the Mexico Station consisted
of Mr. Coleman, Mr. Slawson, and Mr. Willens. They examined not only the

SFeRET



<~

SECRET

17. Summing up, we,can state, or by free interpretation reasonably
infer from the intercept evidence, that OSWALD made or could have made
the following contacts with the Cuban and Soviet official establishments

‘in Mexico City.

27 September 1963 (Friday). After arrival and check-in to

his hotel, OSWALD went first-to the Cuban Embassy where he talked
with Mrs. Silvia DpRAN. The time of his first Cuban Embassy visit
is unknown. The time of .his second Cuban Embassy visit was about
1600 hours (i.e., just before closing). Sometime between the two
Cuban Embassy. Visits, at. Mrs. DURAN's indication, he must have
visited the Soviet Embassy. We have no indication who he talked

with at the Soviet Embassy. .. . mo . aa

intercepts a-e “above, but others for the 27th and one for 3 Octcber
that seemed to have relevance. These have not been included in this :
summary. because: they. appear, on review, to be excludable fron the OSWALD.
matter.on logical or. substantive grounds, or both, bearing in mind that
‘the ‘Soviet. Embassy. received many calls pertaining to visa matters.

On the that 1037 hours the Soviet Embassy received a call from
an unknown: individual. speaking Spanish: who said he wanted visas to go to
Qdessa. “He'was:,told: the Consul was not in and to call back at 1130.
OSHALD is known to: have arrived at the Flecha Roja bus terminal on bus
#516 at circa1000. hours on the 27th. It was, therefore, possible for
him to-have made this call. But granting this, it is unreasonable to
believe the. a Is were OSWALD's for the following reasons:

“The caller wanted visas, and specifically for Odessa.
OSWALD was ‘seeking a visa and never in any context did he specify
the Black Sea port of Odessa as a destination.

12

FOPFET



13-00000

SECRET
¢ ¢

There was no photographic coverage of OSWALD's entries

into either the Cuban or Soviet Embassies on the 27th. The lack of

coverage. on the Cuban installation is explainable: the camera,

based: on’. “the recollection of officers still in service in Head-

quarters; was down on the 27th because of mechanical malfunction,

which was in'course of correction. Why OSWALD was missed in his

probable entry, to ice Soviet installation on the 27th fs not yet

explained, but. no ‘technical operation of that kind is infallible. ~

28 September 1963 (Saturday). [Note: Both the Cuban and

Soviet Embassies were closed to the public on Saturdays. Photo

a coverage was normally suspended Saturdays & and Sundays y:

b. The call was directed to the correct Soviet consu

Jar.

number: | 15-60-55. On 1 October, OSWALD first called the wrong
number, 15-69-87 (the MA's number), and had to redirect his cal? to
the correct number, 15-60-55. It seems unlikely he would have made
what would have been his initial call, on Friday the 27th, to the
correct number, and-called the incorrect number on 1 October.

c. There-is every reason to believe from the context of the”
intercepts, para 15, a-e above, that OSWALD's first destination

after arrival and check-in to his hotel, was a visit to th
Embassy.

je Cuban

Oo 6
d.- The use of the Spanish language would exclude OSWALD unless

he made use of an intermediary, Gat) seems unlikely from what is

known of his modus operandi.

On 3 October at 1539 hours an individual speaking broken Spanish,

then English, called the Soviet Embassy and asked for a visa.
respondent says: Call on the other phone. The requestor says:

13

eeroe®nr

The Soviet
I'm



( (

OSiALD, notwithstanding the holiday schedule, went on Saturday
morning to the Soviet Embassy (his second visit) where he spoke to
a Consul. He apparently could not recall his new Texas address.

At circa 1151 hours he went to the Cuban Embassy--his third entry--
where he had registered it in his visa application the day
previously. He secured the address from Mrs. DURAN and she caTled
the Soviet Consulate presumably to permit him to give then the
address over the phone. Instead, the Soviet with whom OSWALD spoke
over Mrs. DURAN's telephone invited OSWALD to come back in person,
and he said he would immediately. Presumably, thereupon OSWALD went
back to the Soviet installation (his. third entry).

looking for a visa to go to Russia. The Soviet says: Please call on the
telephone of the Consul, 15-60-55. The requestor. says: One moment
please, I'l] have to.get a pencil to write the number dawn... They issue
the visa there? The Soviet: That. depends on your conversation. I don't
know about this business. The requestor asks for the number again. The
Soviet gives him the number and tells him to ask for the Consul of the -
Soviet Embassy in Mexico,

The relevance of this intercept to OSWALD is excludable on three
grounds: -

a. The use. of broken Spanish. OSWALD throughout used broken
Russian or English. He had no competance in Spanish to handle a
conversation of this kind.

b, The substance of the request indicates a visa request in
the first stages: of initiation. OSWALD had developed his matter

with the Cubans: and the Soviets. the pee ous Saturday to a point
well beyond the Stage indicated. by the substance of this call.

14

SECRET

pos] Cbeseeseee



13-00000

eet a

c. 29 Septenber.1963 (Sunday). No activity registered.
d. 30 September 1963 (Monday). No activity registered.

(1t is known that OSWALD reserved space this date on a Mexico City- |
Loredo bus, departing 2 October 1963 at 0830 hours.)

e. 1 October 1963 (Tuesday). OSWALD made at Teast two calls,

at 1031 and 1045 hours, to the Soviet Embassy. He identified himself
twice during the second call when he talked with OBYEDKOV—a- guard— '
and referred to his talk on Saturday, probably with KOSTIKOV. There
was no photographic coverage of OSWALD on 1 October; if the foTTow-
jing reasoning is correct, that was as it should be. From the context H
of the two calls, there would have been no reason for him to go ‘to
the Embassy. His case had clearly been placed at the sufferance oF
the USSR. Embassy in Washington. His two calls on 1 October were °
concerned with whether any’reply had been received from Washington.
Under those circumstances, it is unreasonable to believe osuata a

would have gone to the Soviet Embassy on that date.

18. The camera at about mid-day registered the entry into the
Soviet Embassy of a white-shirted individual who, in the opinion of the

ra

c. OSWALD had left Mexico City, based on all the credible
evidence, the early morning of the previous day, 2 October, and
could not have made this local call.

SECRET


13-00000

wa, ro we

SECRET

Station, among all the persons photographed that day, appeared to be the
only person-+a. non-Latin, and possibly an Anerican--who entered the Soviet
installation. On the chance there could be an association between the
identification data derived from the voice intercept and the descriptive
data derived fron the photograph, the Station reported the two elements "

as separate facts in its cable to Headquarters on 8 October.

19. The Station's, action was not unusual and really amounted to an
analytic "quantum leap," justified by the primitive and initiatory status
of the OSWALD identification. Hany examples of a similar kind of thing
can be found in the day-to-day record of Station-Headquarters correspon

dence and reporting. . : teas

Developments from 8 October - 22 November 1963

29. Mexico Station reported to Headquarters on 8 October (received in

Headquarters 9 October) the following initial information on OswALD.4

(1) On 1 October 1963, an American male who spoke
broken Russian and said his name Lee OSWALD (phonetic),
stated he was at SovEmb on 28 September when he spoke

o

4 Cablese has been rendered here, and throughout, into readable English,
without substantive changes or omissions. Cryptonyms and pseudonyms
have been omitted or put into clear text. :

16

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

with a consul whom he believed to be Valeriy
Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV. Subject asked the Soviet
guard [Ivan] O3YEDKOY, who answered, if there was
anything new regarding a telegram to Washington.
OBYEDKQY upon checking said nothing had been
received yet, but the request had been sent.

(2) Mexico Station said it had photos of a male

who appeared to be an American entering the Soviet
Embassy at 1216 hours, leaving 1222 on 1 October.
Apparent age 35, athletic build, circa 6 feet,

receding hairline, balding top. Wore khakis and.
sport shirt. _
(3). No local dissemination was being made by the

Station.

21... On.10: October 1963 at 20122 time the WH Division responsible
for action disseminated this report to the Department of State, the FBI,
and the Navy Department by routine electrical transmission, adding sane

collateral details drawn from a preliminary file review:

ra
(1). On 17 October 1963 a reliable and sensitive

source. in Mexico reported that an American male,
who identified himself as Lee OSWALD, contacted

the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City inquiring



( SECRET (

whether the Embassy had received any news con-
cerning a telegram which had been sent to
Washington. The American was described as
approximately 35. years old, with an athletic 7
build, about 6 feet tall, with a "receding"

hairline. ,

(2) -It is believed that OSWALD may be identical
to Lee Henry [sic] OSWALD, born on 18 October 1939.
in'New Orleans, Louisiana, a former U.S. Marine
who defected to the Soviet Union in October 1959.
and later made’ arrangements through the United |
States Embassy in Moscow to return to the United
States with his Russian-born wife, Marina :
Nikolaevna PUSAKOVA [sic]. and their child. |

(3) The information in paragraph (1) is being
disseminated to your representatives in Mexico City.
Any further information received on this subject
will be furnished you. This information is being
made available to the Immigration and Naturalization

Service.

22. Although the reaction of the Headquarters desk was “by the
book" and in good time, there were a number of errors in this advisory
to the ‘departments which, on the record, were concerned with the OSWALD

case:



13-00000

. 7 dake NeS
" ¢ ¢
a. OSWALD's middle name was misgiven: "Henry" for Harvey.
The reason for this mistake is simplicity itself. The sheet opening
thé File on OSHALD on 9 Decenber 1960 had been erroneously inscribed

"CSWALD, Lee Henry." That sheet--unchanged except for the notation of

the error--is still the first sheet in the OSWALD file.

b. His wife's maiden name was misspelled: "PUSAKOVA" for PRUSAKOVA.

Neither of these errors are significant (though they persist in the

Headquarters communications throughout the month). More important was:

c. Paragraph .(2) of the Mexico Station's report, which dealt with

a concurrent, but separate, phenomenon, the description of an individual

. observed going into and out of the Soviet Embassy, had been tocked' on to
¢ ~ Lee OSWALD as an alleged descriptive fact. The Station's qualiftcation,
“appeared to be-an American,” was transformed in the Flat designation of”

the unidentified individual as “The American."

There can be ho question that this misreading of the Mexico Station report
was an analyst's error which escaped detection in the coordination before
release: the descriptive details attributed to OSWALD were so far off the
mark.as to be..immediately recognizable as such by the recipients ‘in Head-
quarters, among whom both the Navy and FBI had photos of OSWALD. {In‘partial
explanation, if not exculpation, be it recalled thaf as of that manent CIA
had. no photograph of OSWALD in Headquarters or in Mexico City to refer to.)

23. -Confirmation of this judgment is provided by the contents of
the cable composed by the same analyst and sent as of 2209Z time (two

hours later) to Mexico Station, referencing its 8 October cable:

19
SECRET



13-00000

(

(1) Lee OSWALD who called Sovéib 1 October
probably identical Lee Henry [sic] OSWALD born
18 October 1939, New Orleans, louisiana, former
radar operator in United States Marines who
defected to USSR in October 1959. OSWALD is

five feet ten inches, one hundred sixty five

pounds, light-brown wavy hair, blue eyes.

(2). On 31 October 1959 he attempted to renounce
his United States citizenship to the United States
Embassy in Moscow, indicating he had applied for
Soviet citizenship. On 13 February the US Embassy
Moscow received an undated letter fron OSWALD”,
postmarked Minsk on 5 February 1961 in which sub~

ject indicated he desired return of his US passport

as he wished to return to USA if "we could cone

to some ag-eement concerning the dropping of any
Tegal a against me." On 8 July on his
own initiative he appeared at the Embassy with

his wife to see about his return to States.

Subject stated that he actually had never applied
for Soviet citizenship and that his application

at that time had been to remain in USSR and for a
temporary extension of his tourist visa pending
outcome of his request. This application, according

to OSWALD, contained no reference to Soviet

20

SECRET



13-00000

Nae eet pe Tea tee

citizenship. OSWALD stated that he had been
employed since 13 January 1960 in Belorussian
radio and tv factory in Minsk where he worked

as a metal worker in research shop. OSWALD was
married on 30 April 196] to Marina‘ Nikolaevna
PUSAKOVA [sic], a dental technician born 17 duly
1941, USSR. No Headquarters traces. He
attempted to ‘arrange for his wife to join him in
Moscow so she could appear at Embassy for visa
interview, His American passport was returned
to him. US Embassy Moscow stated twenty months
of. realities of life in Soviet Union had clearly.
had a maturing effect on OSWALD.

(3) Latest Headquarters information was an FBI
report dated May 1962 saying the FBI ha¢ deter-
mined OSWALD fs. sti11 a US citizen and both he
and his Soviet wife have exit permits and ~
Department of State had given approval for their
travel with their infant child to USA.

(4). The Station should pass the informatfon of
reference [its 8 October cable] and paragraph (1)
above to the Embassy, the FBI, the Navy, and I&NS

locally. The information given above as

21

SECRET



* work out that way.

SECRET

paragraphs (2). and (3) originated with the FBI.

(5) Reference and possible identification

being disseminated to Headquarters of FBI, State,
Navy, and I&NS. Please keep Headquarters 7
advised on any further contacts or positive

identification of OSWALD.

> 5
24, Headquarters. feedback to Mexico City of OSWALD's correct.

description should have been sufficient, in view of the incongruities
with the details deduced from the photo of the unidentified mate, to
keep these two matters apart as investigative facts. But things did: not

25. Mexico Station on 15 October 1963 asked Headquarters to
"please pouch a photo of OSWALD." Headquarters electrically delivered |

to the Department of the Navy the following message on 24 October 1
: "Lee Henry [sic] OSWALD. . .

"It is requested that you forward to this office
as soon as possible two copies of the most recent
photograph you have of subject. We will forward
them to our representative in Mexico, who will

attempt to determine if the Lee OSWALD in Mexico

City and subject are the same individual.”
22

SECRET



13-00000

deuLEEO

No photo had been received by CIA by 22 November 1963.

26. Within.its limitations and capabilities, Mexico Station had

done all it could to comply with Headquarters instructions:

a. Headquarters had been alerted, and in turn those agencies
with an investigative or policy interest in OSWALD as an Anerican
in the United States had been alerted, both in Washington and in

:

the field.

b. Mexico Station had no further contacts by OSWALD to report

because--as it was ultimately ascertained--he had left Mexico city”

on 2 October,

c. OSWALD was not an Agency investigative responsibility, in
any case. Even with a photograph, it would have taken very special

efforts, triggered by the other interested U.S. agencies, ta have

made. a positive identification in view of OSWALD'S hotel registra- 7

tion under alias.

There the matter rested until mid-day 22 November 1963.

The Insertion of the Photo of the Unidentified Indiyidual into the

Chain of Evidence

27. On 22 November 1963 the Mexico Station cabled Headquarters at
22292 ‘time”after. learning of the arrest of Lee H. OSWALD, age 24,

23

SECRET



possibly in connection with the assassination, and referenced its
earlier messages of 8-9 and 15 October and Headquarters‘ reply of

10 October, The Station requested by:

“priority pouch a photo of OSWALD so that Station
can check all recent coverage for OSWALD. Forward-
‘ing. soonest copies of only visitor to Soviet Embassy -

on 1 October who could be identical with OSWALD.”
5 .

28. It is clear that Mexico Station had forgotten that according
to its own Communication, the unidentified male in.the photo was of

“apparent age. "35" and — the accurate description of: ‘OSWALD forwarded

Cc by Headquarters, on 10 October precluded the identity with OSMALD of the
person. whom they regarded as the :“only-visitor to the Soviet Embassy on Tt

1 October who could be identical."

29... The’Station meanwhile had begun an exhaustive and accelerated -.

review of all its technical and photographic intelligence. ‘A dispatch
was prepared ‘in accordance with the indication given in the cable of |
22 November, cited in paragraph 25 above. The dispatch noted that
photo coverage of the unidentified individual had turned up on 4 and
15 October at.the Soviet and Cuban Embassies , respectively. The text

of the 22 November 1963 pouched dispatch read:

"1. Attached are copies of the only photographs
obtained . . . on 1 October 1963 which appeared

24

SECRET

1
'
i
1


SECRET

to be an American. This same man visited the Soviet

Embassy on 4 October 1963.

"2. Copies of these photographs were shown to the
U.S. Anbassador on 22 November 1963 and a copy of +
each of the two photographs was given to Chief FBI,

Mexico, on that date . J. .

“P.S. Photographs dated 15 October 1963 were”
inserted after typing of dispatch. These were
taken as [the] person-entered the Cuban Enbassy.”

Attached were eight photographs: - four (of which two were marked.”

S T October. ‘on reverse) showing the individual in a white shirt, and four.
(unmarked on reverse) showing the individual in a black shirt. It
would seem to be logical that the word "sets" was. probably ‘omitted From
paragraph two of the dispatch between the words “two” and "photographs."

30.. That the Station was working under forced draft is clearly
apparent from the text of the dispatch, which tacked on a material fact.
as a postscript. That fact was reported simultaneously by cable to

Headquarters at 0053Z time, 23 November:
ra

"1, Mexico Station has photos same unidentified

American type who is possibly OSWALD entering
Cuban. Embassy on.15 October. Searching for

25

SECRET



13-00000

SECRET

possibility photo-documented entry Cuban Gribassy

other days.

"2. Also attempting establish OSNALD entry and

departure Hexico."

31. Headquarters, at 0136Z time, 23 November 1963, asked Mexico
Station to send a staff member with all photographs to Headquarters on

the next available flight.

32. Concurrently with or before the foregoing cables to Headquarters,
the Chief of Station, Mexico.City, had spoken directly by double-talk ©
telephone. with the Western Hemisphere Chief of Division, ues,

C and secured permission to give copies oF the photographs of the uniden- °
tified individual to the Legal Attache and to make them known to the

Inbadsador—

33. What heeacd next is best reflected in a personal note by the
chier of Station to the WH Division Chief, mailed to the latter from —
Dallas, together with copies of the photographs, by the Lega? Attaches
representative who delivered them-to the FBI in that city.

“22 November 1963
WED
“Dear CasmnaBaaiS:

“Reference is made to our conversation of 22 November

SECRET



13-00000

( C

in-which I requested permission to give the Legal
Attache copies of photographs of a certain person

who is known to you.

"Attached are copies of each of the photographs

we have with the dates of the visits stamped on

the. back.

a

“At. 6 p.m. Mexico time.on 22 November, The Ambas~ _
sador decided that this was important enough ta
have a member of the Legal Attache's office take-
copies of these pictures to Dallas, Texas. The

Naval ‘Attache is:making a special flight from”
‘Mexico City for this purpose. The Legal Attache's
officer who is going to-Dallas has promised to.

mail this material to you for me.

“Copies of these photographs are also being sent
by pouch which will leave Mexico City on the —
night of 22 November 1963.

"Best wishes.
TDew 1 °
‘as

According to.a sidelined comment on this letter, the Legal Attache's

officer was’ Eldon RUDD.

27

SECRET



13-00000

“34: The decision to remit.the photographs to the FBI in Dallas
had been made by the Anbassador, according to the Chief of Station, who
simultanzously with ‘the FBI agent's departure reported to Headquarters

by cable (0244Z time, 23 November):

“FBI agent left here 2000 local time with two copies
each of six photos of a*person suspected to be
OSWALD, on a special flight for Dallas. Ke is
carrying envelope with one copy each photo for
nial

airmail special from Dallas to -=eaEeme> at

Tent
home as per telephone conversation with #aaem.

Qne copy: of each of these photos plus a copy of

(ee each of the photos. showing the same person exiting”
the Cuban Embassy forwarded by memorandum leaving
by regular pouch tonight. In view of above does

_ Hgs stil? want a staffer with additional photo(s)?"

35. ‘Headquarters responded two hours later, 0422Z het

- 23 November 1963, cancelling its request:

“1. No need send staffer with photos. We have
asked Navy for photos again, but Mexico cen see

OSWALD's picture soonest on the press wire.

"2. Have just re-emphasized to FBI Headquarters

the’sensitivity of photos ‘you.are sending and also

SECRET



36.

S 37.

( SECRET (

relaying names of travelers with similar names.
Note radio says OSWALD lived under alias of
0. H. LEE."

On the 23rd at 1729Z time, Headquarters advised Mexico City:

"The FBI says that the Photos of the man
entering ‘the ‘Soviet Embassy which Mexico
Station’ sent ‘to Dallas were not of Lee OSWALD.
Presume Mexico Station has double-checked
dates of these photos and is also checking an :
pertinent photos for possible shots of CSWALD."

And at this point, 20482 time, 23 Novenber, Mexico Station

finally agreed:

38.

"Saw photcs of Lee OSWALD on television night of a
22 November and it obvious photos sent to Dallas
were not identical with Lee OSWALD held in Dallas.

Dates are as given on photos.

"Mexico Station is reviewing all available photos

of persons entering Soviet and Cuban Embassies.”

Two hours later. (2254Z time, 23 November 1963) the Station had

reported the results of its effort to review all available coverage:

29



SECRET

"Complete recheck of photos of all visitors to 4
Cuban Embassy from August through first half of

November against good press photos shows no

evidence of OSWALD visit. Similar blank against

all Soviet Embassy photos fron 1 September.

Note, only visit we know he made to Cuban Embassy

28 September; Saturday, on which Embassy closed

m5
and we had not had coverage... .

39. With this communication the matter of the "unidentified
individual" reaches the end of Phase I, the key element of which is the
conviction, at first latent, then expressed, that the photographed
individual might be identical. with OSWALD. This applies especially to.
the Station, though at a certain point even Headquarters moved no 7
rebuttal despite the hard fact that the description of OSWALD and the
unidentified individual were quite disparate. 2 .

40. This review has attempted to deal even-handedly with all items
in the case record that have a.bearing on what happened. The operational
zeal, innovativeness, and the high committment of all involved,
especially in Mexico City, speaks for itself. Equally apparent--
because of the. 20/20 advantage of hindsight--is the evidence of
non-performance. It was a critical failure, for example, that no photo
of OSWALD was*made available--though it was expressly requested both at
Headquarters and by the field--or that it was not more aggressively

30

SECRET



13-00000

sought by CIA, before 22 November. A photograph of OSHALD would have
obviated--in a way the mere possession of a correct physical description
evidently could not--the whole successive deterioration of what began in
Mexico City as an smpressionistic selection of the photograph on

1 October 1963 into a cause celebre today. , cary

40. It should be clear from this factual survey that never had
there been a cause celebre with less intrinsic merit. It is equally
clear from the facts thenselves that there was nothing contrived or
conspired in what happened, unless we have now descended to that point
in human values achieved under STALIN in the USSR and under HITLER in.

Germany, where just a plain mistake is per se evidence of conspiracy.

The Genesis and Development of Odum Exhibit No. 1 and
Commission Exhibit 237 :

41, Special Agent of the FBI, Bardwell D. ODUM,.on 23 Novenber
1963 showed one of the six photos flown up fran Mexico City the previous
day to OSWALD's mother, Marguerite OSWALD. ODUM himself had trimmed off
the background by straight cuts. .Mrs. OSWALD had no recognition of the
‘image in the photograph. ODUM's own detailed account may be found in

Hearings, op cit, Vol. XX, p. 268. Cs

42. The photograph shows the unidentified individual in a black

shirt. It was one of the five photos taken of him in front of the Soviet
31

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

Embassy in Mexico City on 4 October 1963, two days after OSWALD had

left the city.

43. At this point, ‘for the record, the total available photo
coverage of the unidentified individual numbers twelve (12) photographs: ,

a. Five (5) taken on 1 October 1963, entering and exiting the
Soviet Embassy. He is garbed in 2 white shirt and light-colored
»
(khaki-2 trousers.

b. Five (5) taken on 4 October 1963 in front of the. Soviet
Embassy. He is garbed in a dark, open, button-down shirt with a

high-neckline undershirt showing and dark trousers.

c.. Two (2) taken on 15 October 1963 in front of the Cuban

Embassy. He is wearing a cob collarless T-shirt or light sueater. :

The negatives of all of these are extent and are now held in tesdqurters

as integral parts of the OSWALD and related file holdings.

44. The result of ODUM's display of the photograph--to repeat, a
cropped version of one of those noted under paragraph 43b, above--was
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's allegation that she had been shown a picture of
her son's killer, Jack RUBY, a day before he perpetuated the deed: Again
the Warren Commission Report (pp. 364-365, 367) exhaustively disposes
of this erroneous charge and requires no repetition here. A complica~

ting fact developed along the way was Mrs. OSWALD's (correct) observation,

32



13-00000

apeunes

when she finally admitted before the Conmission that the O0UH photograph
was not RUBY, was that the photo had been cropped differently from the

one she had bean shown in Dallas. Inspector MALLEY's cropped version of
the ODUM photograph became Connission Exhibit 237 (see Hearings,

Vol. XVI, p. 638).

45. The net. effect of the developments in the hearings of the
Commission was to requiye the admission of the cropped photograph into
evidence in a chain of depositions beginning with ODUM, including the
FBI Inspector , dames R. NALLEY (who had trimmed the photograph used by
the Commission in Washington), and Richard HELMS, who depased for ae .
originator. These documents speak for themselves and will be found in

the Hearings Vol. XI, pp. 468-470.

6. Mexico seatton and other senior Agency officers strongly
: the publication’ of the photograph in any form on the
grounds “that. the-Soviets would be itmediately alerted to the existence
of a useful and continuing U.S. intelligence operation, and the opera—

tion would go: in the-drain. There were repeated cables exchanged on

this point between Headquarters arid Mexico Station during the summer
of 1964, in particular fron 23 September to 15 October 1964 when the

Station had plans underway to abandon the operation’

47. In acceding to the Commission's request for a deposition,

Mr. HELMS, then the Deputy Director. for Plans, replied affirmatively to
33

SECRET



13-00000

yy

Hr, RANKIN by memorandum of 23 June 1964 which included the following

additional observation:

"The Central Intelligence Agency recommends that
this photograph not be reproduced in the Commis- |
sion's report because it would jeopardize a most
_confidential and productive operation. In

addition, it could be embarrassing to the indivi -

dual involved who as far as the Agency is aware 5

had no connection with Lee Harvey OSWALD or the
assassination of President KENNEDY."

48. In this instance the needs of the Commission prevailed over :
the DCI's statutory obligation to protéct sources and methods. The
“Unidentified Individual" remains to this day unidentified and there is
no credible evidence up to this-time to rebut the assertion made by
Mr. HELMS in the concluding sentence of his memorandum to Mr. RANKIN on
23 June 1964. And the operation did, as predicted, go down the drain.
Within a week of the public appearance of the Odum Exhibit No. 1 and
Coimission Exhibit 237, members of the Soviet Embassy began systematic
efforts to survey the surrounding bui Idings, ostensibly for rental
space, but clearly their inquiries were directed to Spotting possible
camera sites. The operation was continued in any case. Within a year
it had become almost totally unproductive in coverage on Azericans in
contact with the Embassy--a clear sign that this category of visitor

was being warned away by the Soviets themselves.

34


13-00000

( c
Phase III: The “Unidentified Man" Photographs, 1964 - 1975

43. ‘ As could be foreseen, there has been persistent pressure by
critics of the Warren Commission Report to exploit Odum Exhibit No. 1
and Commission Exhibit No. 237 for partisan interpretive purposes. A
considerable correspondence has accumulated since the end of 1964 in
which the Agency has attempted tobe responsive to these requests and,
simultaneously, has tried to satisfy what has been its sole interest
from the inception of the matter: to protect the method of acquisition
of the photograph and the(foreign Tiaison relationship;which made the

acquisition possible.

50. Following are highlights from the correspondence during the

current phase.

- a On 16 Nay 1967, over the signature of the General Counse?
of the Agency, Lawrence R.. HOUSTON, CIA voluntarily submitted a
statement about the photograph to Judge BAGERT of the Criminat
District Court for the Parish of Orleans, State of Louisiana.
The response dealt affirmatively with the contents of the subpoena
that had been delivered to the United States Marshall in the District
of Columbia, despite the fact that the subpoena could not be
executed because of the lack of jurisdiction.

Mr. HOUSTON proferred on Agency behalf categoric assur-

ances to the court regarding the inaccuracy of statements and
35

SECRET


inferances made by ir. GARRISON in New Orteans about the photograph

of the unidentified individual. The following is extracted from

Mr. HOUSTON's memorandum.

“Because of the publicity which has surrounded the -
Orleans Parish Grand Jury proceedings , we’ have
recently carried out an’ exhaustive search of the
Files, of the Central Intelligence Agency for any
picture of Lee Harvey OSWALD taken in Mexico. As

a result of this search, I can state categorically
that the files of this Agency do not contain, and
never have contained, any such picture of -
Lee Harvey OSWALD taken in Mexico and that we have
no information whatsoever that any such photograph |
ever existed. To the best of our knowledge and -
information, therefore, there is no such photograph.
‘Furthermore, the photograph which is printed in the
Warren. Commission Report, Exhibit No. 237 in Volume
XVI, never contained more than one figure, and the
figure in the photograph depicts an individual who,
to our knowledge, has not been identified’ The
circumstances of the filing of this photograph with
the Warren Comission are set forth in affidavits

on pages 468 and 469 of Volume XI, Hearings Before

the President's Commission on the Assassination of

36



13-00000

an

President Kennedy. Consequently, we have no record

of any photograph that answers in any way the

description of the one we understand was requested

in the subpoena.

"T hope you will accept this information in this
form in the spirit of cooperation in which it is

proferred."

b. The Agency has repeatedly serviced requests about the
identify of the unknown individual from Mr. Emory L. BROWN, Jr.,

Route: #4;-Box 82, Squankum Road, Farmingdale, New Jersey.’ The last _

exchange’of correspondence in cur record covered the pertod.
4-- 17 April 1970. - .

c.- Detailed inquiries on the unidentified individuat a
received-on 1-and 24 Novenber. 1971, to which the Agency responded
on 15 Novenber and 14 December, respectively, from :

Mr. Paul L. HOCH;' 1735 Highland Place #2, Berkeley, California.

d. The most extensive effort to pursue the unidentified
individual was and is being made by Bernard FENSTERWALD, Jr., who
is now Executive Director of a Committee to Investigate Assassina-
tions, 927 55th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., beginning on
22 March 1971, shortly after the Agency declassified Commission

Document No. 674, and extending through 11 October 1972, after the
7

SECRET



aN
2

€

SECRET

FBI's deciassification of Commission Document No. 556. On & April
1971, Mr. FENSTERWALD was invited tu the Agency for a discussion
with the General Counsel, Mr. HOUSTO!, of his question about the
photograph .of the unknown individual. Two other photographs of
the unidentified individual, in addition to the photograph
depicted in the two Commission exhibits, were shosn to him at that
time. It is a matter of nore than ordinary interest to note that
on this occasion Mr. FENSTERWALD, who was accompanied by his
partner, Mr. William OHLHAUSEN, told Mr. HOUSTON and another
representative of the Agency in attendance that he knew who the

unidentified man was. The following is extracted from Mr. HOUSTON s

Memorandum of Record, 8 April 1971:

+ Mr, FENSTERWALD came to my office this
morning with his partner, William G. OHLHAUSEN,
looked at the other photographs, and told us he
did know who the man was. He said he is presently
serving a prison term somewhere in the United
States and admitted that he had known OSWALD, but
Mr. FENSTERWALD said there was nothing to indicate
any connection between the man in the photographs
and the assassination of President KENNEDY.

Mr. FENSTERWALD did not give us the man's name at
this. time, as he said enough people had suffered

unnecessarily fron allegations that they were

38


13-00000

SECRET
(
associated with the assassination, but he did |
say he-was sure we had a file on the man. He i
asked’ if he could have the photogrephs, and I |
asked how he could use them. He said he did . ; i
not know and finally agreed that for the time
being he would not press his request. . . .
The whole meeting was extremely friendly and
they thanked ‘us for our response." : : i
The fol lowing is extracted fron the Memorandum of Record ‘

DS SS . !
by the other CIA man present, ST. : .

"Mr. FENSTERWALD said he knew who the person

of

. -was and had spoken to him; that the man was too hrdyes Clad
- Nervous to come forth on his own. FENSTERNALD - :
would not ‘give the man's name but said he is an,
American, serving a prison term in this country . 4
on a criminal charge, and that he had met OSWALD
in Mexico. I ‘asked whether the prisoner had any
conspiratorial relationship with OSWALD.
FENSTERWALD replied he did not know the answer

as he had not interviewed the man as yet. We
reiterated that we did not know who the man

was, and said that we would like to know his
identity. FENSTERNALD replied that CIA has a

39


13-00000

SECRET

thick file on the unknown man, and that we will

be ‘furfished his nane.in due course... .

JoMir, FENSTERMALD made no reference in his subsequent
conversations’ and correspondence to this allegation about the identity
of the "Unidentified Individual,” though the claim, if true, would
bé of direct-evidential interest and possibly permit us to assert
with. finality what? we believe has been the fact from the beginning:
the. “inidenittfied Man"-has ‘nothing to do with the OSWALD case at all.

40

SECRET



13-00000

Ir - would Like .to receive by april 22 @ full report from

»KoeiL 15, J

AS you nots; Lee Harvey O8vald@ was in Mexico City 3 in
ate: September ‘and. early October, 1963. Shortly after.

he left Mexico City a:photograph was taken of an American
maleand-a question was raised whether or not this male was_
Lee Harvey Oswald. ‘The.CIA and the Warren Commission both -
determined that the picture was not of Lee Harvey Oswald
and that the picture was taken after Oswald deft, Mexico
City. :

Although portions of this record have ‘been released to the =
public, other portions. have remained classified becarse

ef concerns by the CIA at the time that a release of the
oes picture might disclose sources and methods. which the -
were not in the-national interest to disclose at
In Light of the false allegations about the
assassination of. President.Kennedy and the false allegations

Sof CTAvinvolvenent,I feel:thet it would be appropriate to

lex. whether or riot the entire matter can be fully
sed iat this time. oy 5

‘the On ‘this’ entire matter. 5

Sincerely yours, ..- -

pavid W. Belin
“Executive Director



message to
Wu Of- Investizttion
meats of State and the

eery OSWALD
oo October 1965 a retiaote: |

sitive source’ ik Mexico

nporsd that an Amedcta mils,

Who idectifled “himself
OSWALD, contacted’ the Soviet
‘bassy in Mexiea City inquiring,
nether the Embassy kad receirsd
aay news conccmisg a telegmm’
which had. bean sent to Washing-
ton. The America was descibed
og ely 35 years old,
} with am atvetic build, about siz
fect tall, with a receding haisliag,

24 is ved tat OSWALD
aye be identi! to,Lee Heay
SHALD, born oa 18 October

959-and latcr made arrangement
sous United States Em-
jassy in Moscow to retum to the
i his Russian
Nixola:vra

ink
to the Immigration
a Service," 7

ims, then chist
cine Szrvizes,
morendim 2

23 tHeagy’ i
ling ané ia pa:

ears old and sian
CIA. was coi 2501

Gepancy, for on Octaber 23 it
the following messay: to the Depart?
ment-of the Navy:

Subject: Lee Henry OSWALD -.

; ‘Reference is madz,to CIA Out
‘Teletype No, 74673 \{the earlier
ressage}, dated 10 October 1963, .
regarding’ possible presence of sub-
Ject in Mexico Gity. It is requested.
that you forward ta.this office’as: ,
*shGh as possible two copiss of the .*
most recent photoraph you have |
of subject. We will forvard them
<to our representative in Mexico,
who' will sttempt to determine if
the Lee OSWALD in Mexico City

* wait Sg BG

Sincs “Oswald fad ‘served -in the
Marine Cozps, which comss under the
i yn of th

its possession a”

photogaph of the man who hed. ¢

eppareatly self” 2s Os
wald, The man in the CIA photo was
rot Eee Harv 31d; he was, just as,

ihietic Lud and a receding “habtine,
According to am
Helms, the Ci
Navy's

and, subject exe the same individ- . .

shed pros

_ Qs ext onty guess st tre contusions
ceised by the picturs. The P2t pacesc
no Nay photogaph to estzblish thai
thE raysteay utc way not Oswald ==
Harvey Oswald was sittits handestied
i’ a thiet-Roor offier of the Dailss
polics Readguarters, The next és)
Spseiat Ageat Barta D.-Odem wos

> dispatched with the-photagaah to the
mots! vhers Oswald's wite ant mothse
were hidden. H= showed the picture io
Mes. Marsutric= Oswold, mother of thy
aceused asiassix Drs, Oswald looked ot
the photo on4 told Oduar she didn't

-Fecognize the men?

chy, howerer, shortly after her sox was.

wpundtped in’ the baseerent of Dallse

City Hall,” Bir Oswalt errontonsty

ented the mystery man, She told |

: Supedlisist resemblanex to Jacke Ruby,
and in her recollection of a drist”

7 Blance at the photograph, two faces

Commission to refer, however oblique~-
“Wy, to the affair of the mystery mea
Sn the twenty-six volumes of pubiished

tstimony and evidence supplern
to the Warren Report, the Commission
Printed the picture tat was shown to
Mrs. Ostatd.® The" Wacrsn Report”
eecount of the

* Accordinz

i man who, it was thonght
2t ths tine, might hove bes;
‘with 0: ? Th



13-00000

a ini lic a taal

Helms

entionsd in its
wenty-six supplementa--

Which, he’ wag. much plore

*? ~The original pactogrash,”

“was taken in Mexico +
4, 1963""* (This *

7 throug the efforts of Paul och,

pélvate researcher) "|
Thee i no avalable record that

ommiaion exscily where in’ Mexico
Ciy, the mystery man was, photo-
gepbed, but the ciredmstazess fa”
which the photograph was given to the
Corimtssion ‘offer. a. very plausible.

9

suggestion, The CIA required the FBI
to erop out te ackgeeund in the
ncto befars handing Rt.over to the. -

Commission ‘The obvious conclusins |
that the photograpls ws takes bye +
idden suryoiilancs camera, end the
CIA wished’ to ayold disclosing its |.
location. Accordiriz to kmowledgsable

former employses of the CIA, the | *
Soviet and Cuban embassies, among
a ia Mexico City, were unde =~
constant photogmphie surveillance

the time, Iz seeras Likely then that the

22 who, accoréing to the CIA,
fied himself as Lee Oswald” was _
ghow ‘phed leaving the Blexico City
mbatiy of the Soviet Union or.of
some othe: communist country,

The fist pubtic hint that the mys-

¢ in 1966, with the pebli-
tion of Edward Joy Epstein’s Io *
iy study of the Warren
Epstein Interylewed
of the Commission's legal staff

with
photesze2!

had oblained an

» from Richard.
a" general counsel,

“On 22 2nd 23 November, isn

mediately following the essos-

jdant Kenaedy, ths

19 visited the Cuban and

_ Oa the basis of these cables, Helars:
went on to, say, the CIA bad sent
siveral reports to. the Secret Service °
Attached to the Helms memorandum
were paraphrasts of these reports.?°
{Swe deatt with the mystery maa: “)

itessage to ‘the Protective” Re- *
starch Stiff,” The Seoret Sewics,
delivered by hand oa 23 Novem-
ber 1963, at 1030 hours «7

Through sources avallsble to it,

J. Lee Rave
, the

: ico. City relaitee |
to photographs of am unidentified

Connision 19 Tavegate ‘Assinar!
-Hons, was porins over some Te:

; ments when he found reference to th
mystuy photacad ‘poo other view of
the some person?* Smith .catted. hi
“Biscovery to ths attention of ons
the antars, Bermasd Fenstecwalé, who

+ instituted 2 suit wager the Freedam of

Information Act for release of thé two:

victures. The government yicided.

tained over the. phatosapus to Fe:
sterwald tnd Smith, They are, pub!

lished bere for te first time: j
‘The twornsw views of the mystent

man were talora “at a, differsnt tims!

_ from the first picture. In the ‘first

‘pictase, the oa published in the

| Warren Comroission. volumes, he if

wearing 2 longetecved dark shist and
appears empty-handed: in the two new,
photos Ke i westing a shortclécved

“white shit and is casying “some king,
of bag or pouck, ihe new photos
show him holding a smal, passport

Ye CLA [deleted} had come inte = "sized booktet end what appesss to be §

possssion of # photogragh of
Unidentified person thought" to"
have visited the Cuban Embassy in
mid-October, This individual, it
was believed at the time, might b>

identical with Lee “Harvey OS-

waip?* - woe

and, "=
Messagz to the Protective Be-
search Staff, The Sccret Servies,

delivers

ber 1983, at 1030 hours,

CIA Headquarters was informed
Lael

]_ on 23 November that
ral" photogespiks of 2 person

Knowa to Gequent the Soviets

sy ia Mexica City, and who
Hentieal with’ Lee Har

by ths hand te
aie retuniag to

adem
phot
2 tegnets is

by hand on 23 Novers—

‘wallet, As in the fic photagsiph, the
} backgrounds ‘of the two new photo
have been “cropped ont. Whoever he
vas, he misngad 15 be photographed,
appareatly by the CIA's hiddea
“wellage= cameras, on at Jeast hr

new photographs reveals acy, resem
Manos betwecg tis mystery man an
+ The Warren Comuition Goactude,
. that Oswald brad been i Mexico ie Io
September end. early October- 19:
Recarés of Mexicen Customs aid Ir
mization, bus Hines, aad a Mexico Cit
Rotel indisste “that “Oswald entere
Bexiso 2t Nuwo Lasedo om the U
* border on September 2
bus to Mexico City, arti

rest sloming, end” Fe!

AR I NON RSASRDSERH


13-00000

Ing Bist Cee vit made remertsd vents 10
both the Soviet asd Cocas emboniss
rasta Reavy ures the affiesnit of oF

s@ the Cudaa Consul in Masico City.
i a.swom ststement?? shz gave to the
fngaty diector of Mexican Federal
vembee 23, 1963,’ she

September to apply
Cuba ducing 2
E et Union, Mra
heated exchenge be
© Consul when
told him his request
ely, She

ing 3 “semiofficial”
Soviel Embassy to

24 visited the Cuban.

. comes Dunas Rome and;
teleghowenugier: But the cooly erod=j]

to interview:

newsager reporter trie

bec in April 1956, Her husband would" ble eyewitness tothiper Unt Oswald,
ot peomit the man to spesk.with her, -|. in tact “Vide the embmryis the

ssying “she had’ suffered a nervous.” - sihtemaat of Silvir Dares, 2
breakdown following her interrogation
_ by the Blexican authorities and kad —“eoeilly lsctnand evidence sussestizg |
been prohibited by her physician... * that somtone’ might have visited the
. ing: the Oswald matter, ~ “embassy... hnpesonating Oswald, the |]
© Af this report is, comect, -° ‘Comimisinys farm te settle com-!

than ont would conclude ‘from the
report forwarded by the Mexican po ~
lice, The report gives the impression
that the police were routinely collect
ing information shout Oswald's Mext- .
ean tip for the American authorities.
One guestion that crises is whether
Dursn’s statement was. give:
end, if not, whether
fication of Oswald as the visitor to tae
embassy is valid.
The, Warrea Commission may have
omitted 2 exploration of this
ad cottatesal evi-

Photagrephs that was enough to extisiy |
the Commission at the tims. If so, that”
* explanation remains 2 part’ of the
+ casita Wace Commission docu. jj
meats not available tothe pablic. . |
+ Reymond Rocca (whe, until: his
+ crecent resigaation, was ths Agency's
action officer for 50 pastWarrea Ro~
port inquiries about the matter) told
+ ons of the autor that the CIA could
not identity the mystey mien. If this is ;
so, we may wonder kow the Agency
could havs offered = satisfactory ex |
Piauatioa of the insiteat to the Com- |
2 addisiorat documents
ing on this matter ars dechasifise,
the conclusion that Oseaté ra
€@ the Osteo Erabesay ent re:
som: doubt, Bat ever if

for a Cuban,
photowrsoh and



13-00000

commuaist cous
not necessary to
If someonz wer
ersqaate Ciwald eight

és ie any ‘com
7, is ‘sericudy undermined: and
‘suse “should be reogened,— -

Pimation’ Of.kow the, CIA
jentify ‘the raystery man.

javier embessies, Lf this ‘were the case,
ea somewhere ja’ the CIA’s files
should be photographs of the
real Les Harvey Oswald departing from
the: Sovigt and Cuban. embassies in -
{Mexico City. If those- phtographs
exist, theis publication would kelp to
Settle the question. If they don’t, the-
CIA should cow explain why not, Ia,”
ther case, it should also disclose What
K keows ‘about the. mad it wronsly
fed 23 Oswald on two separate ©
occasions, It should. explain why it
‘dekieves that this man was not imper.
sonating Oswald. AIL. these matters
should be clarified both by the CIA
ssi and by the congressional com-
ttees that ure about to nvestisate its

of cours, an :,

27 Ibid, 5 .

| ment of Ti

eee 674, The 5

CIA, His boots
Other Sits,
Tepes: An

F, Kennedy ont

Fybid, Her
Priaakora,
Report of the }

“2. 299,
pp. 733-736.

p. 734. Two oriee w
told ths Fal they sow Oswald 4
“Cuban Embassy. AM:
detective who had visite u
on October 3, 1963, identified Oswatd

redy (US Gov:
1964), p. 144. (

“Commission Document 631, op cit.

eid, c : from newspxper photoxsaaks Bs sone
“Sitearings ‘Before cone he had sesn ieas ths embassy
mission on on that date in the company of =

Cutan. Ths detective was shown othe:
phatos of Oswald and. fsiled ‘to ida
tify him, end the Fi ssems to have
concluded that he was mistezen (Com-
mission- Document 565). The Warren
Report dots not offer the det
9, _ . 7 testimony cs evidence of Oswald's visi.
peice ea ” > Another witness who claimed to hav=
*°Tbid., pp. 354365, seen Oswald at the Cuban Embassy
qa teaaes, Vol. 13, v.46 Be egperenh acto Cor,
*?Commission Document 1787, ‘The

>. 308). :
National Archives, Washington, DC. « is

, gent Kennedy (US Govemaiant Print
ing Office, 1954), Vol. 11, p.° 469

3* Bearings, Vol. 11, p. 469. woe
*SEdward Jay Epstein, Inquast:” Tas
Waren Commission and the Esteblishe .
1 (Viking, 1986). +
3*Mr, Rocca, “deputy cilet of the
CIA's Counterintelligence - Staff, was -
‘one of the four senior Agency officizls
who resigned, last ‘December in the
wake of The NewYork Times's revela-
‘tions ‘of illegs] domestic operations by y
thé CIA's Clandestine Services, . .

J Epstein, Inquest; p. 94.”

: teres

°F easiness: Conniatoa B Behibis 255:
732d, Commission Exuubit ts.

National Archives, Washington, DC. .

oad .

2°1bid, dd 5

**1bia, ee : s 5 Sis 5
22 1pid, . eo . . =

and,



13-00000

' SECRET eee

2 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Operations Staff

SUBJECT 2.’ Review of Agency Holdings regarding
Photograph of Unidentified Individual
in Mexico City published by the ve
Warren Commission 6

REFERENCE

Letter dated 15 April 1975 by-
Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director .
of.the Commission on CIA Activities
within the United States, to

Mr. E. Henry Knoche (copy attached to
accompanying report) :

1. This is further to, and in completion of, my
interim memorandum of a few weeks ago.

2. The attachment is a detailed review in narrative,
chronological order - together with appropriate comment-— i
ary - of our extensive holdings on the OSWALD case that.
have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by
Mexico City Station on(1, (4)and 25 October,1963 of an '
Unidentified Individual. As a consequence of a combina— i
tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the '
stress of an urgent desire to contribute to the develop-
ment of the investigation of the assassination, a
cropped version of one of the photographs of the
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of
evidence in the OSWALD case on 23 November 1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi—
tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre
right down to the present moment are detailed in the
nerrative.

. SECRET

piumerams


13-00000 \

¢ - SECRET C : .

3. The attached report is not intended to be an
answer to the Fensterwaid/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin
attaches to his memorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph-
by-paragraph refutation and comment on that article,
which I believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa~
xate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and I will prepare this as
a memorandum if that is desired.)

4. The point of the referenced memorandum is that
consideration should be given now to “whether or not the a
entire matter can be fully disclosed at this time.” This be:
submission is designed to make it possible for you, the .
IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this |
decision. The narfative-interpretive summary: has been
put together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms,
pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However, its contents qo
well beyond what has been released to the public thus far
in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must -
be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's .
question. To remove any question in anyhody's. mind about...
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed up~
by copies of actual documentation from our files. It
seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr.. Belin, that. he or —
his representative review the documentation that backs up
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-
cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest ot
developments in the matter, and there is an overall index fe EF

to facilitate reference to individual items. [NB: There be
is only one copy of this collection; this is it.] wan

a aes

5, As. noted above, one of the photographs taken in ae Z

Mexico City on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the Yl Let
Warren Commission public record. However, it was intro- fuk
duced into that record in two cropped versions. The wee
Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware in »**
the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in : el
Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact alt

that we had additional photographs of the same individual
taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis
of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to
CSWALD and the assassination.

t

6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-—

graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these are— |
reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the

nerrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division, i

2 |

SECRET



13-00000

SECRET -

had indicated in’ writing to Chief, CIOPS, that he has no
objection for Mr. Belin to do whatever is desired with
these photographs at this time. It should be noted that
Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by
Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the
twelve photographs, other than the one already published
in the Warren Commission report. (It is these two.that
he has published in The New York Review of Books article
which Mr. Belin attaches to his memorandum.)

7. %It seems to me that’whoever makes a decision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this.
time should bear inymind that a subsidiary decision must
also be made, i.e., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up
the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to
publish the entire run of the photographs for the first
time without taking out the background. Obviously, none
of these questions apply to the passage of this material
to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. TI
think they should see the entire documentation as it
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what could
be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?”
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this
matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off
we will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding
that there are still sensitivé aspects deriving from the
fact that the operation which produced the photographs
was jointly mm with Mexican liaison and as a consequence

. publication at this time would create additional problems

at that level in Mexico. Also, it should be noted that
the Ambassador, according to Win Scott's memorandum to
J.C. King on 22 November 1963 (see Item 8 in the backup
documentation), allegedly played a direct role in the
decision to put the photographs into the hands of the FBI
in Dallas laterally from the Field. As far as I know,
there has not been anything published about this aspect
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions
with the State Department about that aspec€ of the matter.

_ Dey 32
° Cd

Attachments:
as stated

SECRET

