# 104-10533-10009

## Page 1

104-10533-10009

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

1O

"е • 30 АГН "

• DIRECTOR

Hi: 1 0134259

ACTIONI WH 5

ANdO

PRIORITY

PP/PRO, PP/PROP, 100

186 11491

to

(PRIORITY) DIR NAVA

INFO

CITE MEXI 3801

(WARE ACTING)

INTEL

SUPDATÀ SOURCE LITEAT CONVERSATION 25 APRIL BETHEEN MACHESO AND SALVADOR MISSIP

CUBAN AME MEXIO SERGIO ROJAS, CUBAN AME UAN, CALLEO MACHADO WHILE ROJAS WAS

WITH CASTRO, POSSIBLY WHILE CASTRO ON TOUR. MACHADO TALKED WITH CASTRO FROM MEXI

IN REBEL RADIO CODEA

• FILEO 3017152

NOFORN CONTINUEO CONTROL MMY 4229 MEXICO/CUBA SUBU OFFER TO FIDEL CASTRO RUZ BY

UNKNDAN MEXICANS DOI APRIL 59 PADA MEXICO CITY 29 AFRIL 59. APR 2.

SONRCE PERSON WITH EXCELENT CONTACTS MANE CUERNE EN MEXIGO GRO AIRED

JAN 24 15S2

200000

30000.

DOCUMENT MICROFLU SERVICE

END OF MESSAGE

C/S CONTENT:

SEE ATTACHED FOR TEXT OF PARAS 1, 2 AND 3.

THE TD PORTION OF THIS

CABLE MAS NOT BCEN DISSCMINATED OUTSIDE THE: AGEMEY PENDING RELEASE BY THE ACTION

RAUTING : INITIAL

4

33

RI/TY

S-E-CiR-E-T

DESINEY

PE 1389 REPRODUCTION BY ONER THEN THE ISTING OFFICE IS MORBITED

Kopy No.

cast

---

## Page 2

CENT: !L INTELLIGENCE AG NCY

IN 11491

TELETYPED INFORMATION REPORT

milo matedal coutatan informosion atfocing the Notonal Delete of Me United Say within the saaning of the Espionage Lown, Ti

A, UNC. Suce. 783 ond 704, tha tanmiudon os carolados el which la ony manare lo an unautordzad peron la probibind by lom

CLABDIPICATION

DIBSENINATION CONTROL!

Sio Co lineura

also, 142356k.

SECRET

HOFERN CONTINUED CONTROL

TDCS

TRATE DIETR.

17704

Mr. Ta senior

PRECEDENCE

Market

• 9-1-48-1

COUNTAT

PLACE ACQUIRRO

J ROUTIME PRIORITY

#IGIBEUTE

MEXICO/CUBA

MEXICO CITY 129 APRIL 1959)

SUBJECT

OFFER TO FIDEL CASTRO RUS ET UNGNON MEXICANS

DATE ON INPONNATION

FRIL 1959

APPRAISAL

DE CONTENT ITINTATIVE

MEFERINCES

OURCE VALUATION DIFINITIVI

PERSON WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS AMONG CUBANS IN MEXICO (B).

1o L8S00AAL MAN IN MEXI RECENTLY MADE OFFER TO FIDEL CASTRO PIE, CUBAN PRIME

MUHEST2EE THROUGH MINE

•MACHADO LLOSAS, CUBAN BUSINESSMAN MEXI AND FORER TREAS 26

MAY MONTENT MEXI

CASTRO AGREED TO THING MATTER OVER AND REPLYS LATER SENT HESSAGE

TO MAGICO EXPRESSINS DOUBT RE OFFER EU: AUTHORIZIAG TURTHER CONTACT. ADDED THAT OFFER

NOT THE FIRST MADE BY THESE PEDFLE, CASTRO ALSO AUTHORIED MACHADO TO NEET HIM NACRE

EVER HE NIGHT DE TO REPORT

ZA MACHADO SAM MAN AGAIN, ASKED HIN TO CONTACT MIS SUPERIORS TO SCE MOM FAR THEY

COULD GO wITH OrreR

3e FIELD 01S5218

STATE A ADI, NAVY, AIR (ORALLY).

TO-247÷1

END OF MESSACE

HESEMINATON CONTROL!

MOFDRA CONTINUED CONTROL

TO: AOSE AF. NAVY, ICS. OSD. STATE. NSA

"ri.

ФЕМ, 1380 ТАРИРТИЙ

OTTON

CLASSIFICATION

1501-267298

SECRET

701 17 01478 0P901: 89980-6289

201-317298

---

