106-058

«

: Sholomo GLIKSBERG
aia ERS

REFERENCE: HZPA-17656, 260une 1969 Seb 4
1. The Station has no traces on Subject.

2. ‘There are numerous traces on J. Irving LAVIPSOK. One
card shows that he announced the new location of his offices '
at 1612 K, Street, N.W., Washington,DC on 1 April 1959. Among . |
those he represented at that tire were the Nicaraguan Covernment
and Israeli Military Industries. Another undated card shows :
him as a registered representative of the Nicaraguan Government
at Suite 1224, Wyatt Building, Washington, D. C. There is one
reference to his buying rifles from the Dominican Pepi lic for
sale to Indonesia, with the approval of the Nicsraguan president.

3. Station contact ERVIC-1 knows Davidson vell and classftes!
him as an unprincipled opportunist. At one tire when Nicaragua |
was arranging to purchase a quantity of Staghound armored cars
from Israel, Davidson made use cof a Nicaraguan passport to
travel from France to Israel since Arerican citizens were at that .
time enjoined from travelling to the vid-Fast. EFvIG~-1 was
shown this passport by then - French Arbassador to Nicaragua,
Raymond PONS. EPWIG-1 told the Awerican ¥ilitary Attache about
this unauthorized travel. ‘The HA told the American Ambassador
who, in turn, told Davidson that FFWIG-1 had squealed on hin.
Pelations between ERWIG-1 and Davidson were strained after
that. This took place about 1956.

continged..

Distribution:
O&l - COR,
eee oo F

ENMA~4366
TT

SECRET



Dieraiea $ymOOU AND SUROER

“CONTINUATION OF ae
DISPATCH ENYA~4366

2

7 4, FRNIG-1 says that Davidson nade about $50,000 (U.S.)
on the Staghound deal which he invested locally in Plywood de

" Nicaragua to avoid paying U.S. incore tax, He later scld his
interest in this plywood firm,

5. Above {= for information only and not to be passed
on without Headquarters exprees permission in view of the
reetrictfionn ef FR S1<-1,¢,

6. The Station has no recent information on Somoza
involvement in Israeli arms dealings nor have any Uzi
submachine guns been noted locally.

a i A! da ala

J euareune Ff Qt Ae
Lawgence F. BAPKER j tae

:
4
:

$4 CLASTPATION
tL Prom
ES eect Geren SECRET

