# 104-10124-10048

## Page 1

104-10124-10048

:=

FILE

TRAVEL ORDER

OFFICE PHONE

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

MOMENT SYMBOL

7-1101-13

GRADE AND SALARY

TITIS

216.3

OFFICIAL STATION

00-13

are hereby

authorized to

travel

Agency Regulations.

15-25

and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

15-10

reshingtos, Do C. to

alierle de)to Earne, suitserlards)

15-20 randurt, Cerary) Carlo, lanco

srd rach

other points in the VE - F8

arcas in such order and frocssacy us toy be racecram fer toacore Daty

ci aprrostratoly 25 dogs and upon completion of sasigned circion, tatura to

Hackershyat

SPECIAL PROVSIONS ANGUDE APP

TE SOSIFICARONS

Lxcess bagrage for official equipmat nos to excood 100 1bs. authoriced.

(pore lonel expenses not to exceed $100.99 cuttorised.

Exploree vill travel ander D40 cover.

Request upa arrance for necoseury

docuentation.

ZUTHORIZED PER DIEM

Marima por cion altaence la onchoráred in eccordesce vich

Agassy Fogiletless.

¡drence of Fonda le authorized

CODEDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

1 OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

THEATER CLEARANCE (IF OBTAINABLE)

ADVANCE OF FUNDS IS AUTHORIZED.

1E453

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

$

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATINO GET SXIMATELY

CERTIFICATION TOY PeDESIN F/523, 02

Certified & True Copy. Signed

MODE OF TRAVE ISPOND 1956

Il taçan, 1955

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

necessary. Amended as indicated.

J(A)

CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARSIER

(B)

CENTS PER MILE, AS BEINO MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE GOVERNAMENT

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE

glorian

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT

10 WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORIN IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSCORBATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOID GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

IS AUTHORIZED.

.. IS AUTHORIZED.

IS TARTHORIZE POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION O¡ IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONA: EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

0-4152:

/ DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE

I EPICENS TO TRAVEL WHIN ONE VERE GIC LOVE

"ENROEAKY DUTY.

: LIND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFISIAL (TYPE)

JRE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

Tir 51

78":23X

4:55

FOrd. 23-27

1751 techi tet 68

1=0.

---

