# 104-10186-10197

## Page 1

104-10186-10197

INFORMATION REBORI

NFORMATION RERORI.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

LB BAALATIAL SODIAIDS IMIOTMALION ARACTIDE ChO MOISONA DOIENDS OI 1DO CAIIPO BLACES NISHIN LO MNAINA A tO FINIONAN LATE. TI

a 199 des 1oi iso lanamina do perplation of thies do any manner so sa undulaamers penon la probibited by l

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUMTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. (561-316/00607-65

9 February 1965

SUNECT "Juan Carlos" (an alias)

DATE DISTR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only NO. PAGES

Do Noi Reproduce

REFERENCES

1

CS-311/00116-64

(page 7)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & Washington,

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INIOIMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DIPINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTINE IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former. Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information

from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in

the

personality reports without

first checkieswithh this Agency•

1.

"Juan Carlog" is an officer in the South American Section

f the Departamento Ilegal Illegal Department, of the Direcc101

¡eneral de Intelicencia (General Directorate of Intelligence.

DGI). Erfor to 1962 he was an attache at the Cuban embassy in

Chile,

but due

Cuban

Embassy in Chile, he was returned to Cuba.

2.

"Juan Carlos" was born jA about 1940,

He is five fee

seven inches

tall,

weighs between 160 and 170 pounds, and ha:

a heavy build. He has dar's brown hair and light blue or green

eyes.

Headquarters Comment

1 .

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on "Juan Carlos."

SECR

E T'

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

STATE

TOMA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

I HAVY

CINCSO

| AIR

I&NS

(Nates Fiold distribution indicated by " #")

INPORMATIONSREPORTS

NSA

#H/SA/HOB:

NELLIAN

ICI/LIA

2.1

ILLE

RIDLAN

01/0QW/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CS 8, RID 1

Fostered Argue

2

OCR

FBI 2

ATLONSREPORT

&X 1838; LX 2353

DEGA 19083(16Dee 6•8)

NO PROJECT A MUO/ 1)

"COOPINTING

dal a m1807

SwK

1 CI

10-5=1

---

