# 104-10186-10285

## Page 1

104-10186-10285

IONARERORTA

HINFORMA RERORE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

SO FORCICA DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

Background use Day

REPORT: NO.

CSC1:8316/00642-04

DATE DISTR 12 August 1900

NO PAGES 2

REFÉRENCES CS - 311/00123-64

3

DATE OF.

INTO.

1964

PLACE 8.

DATE ACO •A'aK'89

washings

FIELD REPORT. NO

THIS IS UNEVALUAlID MIORRATION.

SOURCI ORAVINOS ALl DIFIMITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT.

SOURCe, A dirmin Chili IS illies li survid vito the Cuban Intelligerer

Seguare titll Ar=í: 1901.

Headgutrl.na Cumenta:

The dallioning repure.

is ond of a seracs containint

persorally untormation provided vy

the source and

includes

-upplemental intorma dro Iron the recuria

uf this "Asincy.

It is repastod

that, ano ardregseas nie in artion

individuala mere soned

in tho personality reports

without farst elecking with this Agency.

Benlino

MIDISA Piasercia 1g

tee° colos of the Laboratorio.

Potografico (Photographic Laborators - LF) In the Departmort

of Tochnical Gorattoral Supper: (MIlor the Direccion General

de Incellagoncla prem ra! Dirceroral of Incolliponce - DGI):

MEDINA Iá tha

rily ino permilind to chutograph documents which

lear Cuba clandesianaly, 1.8.,

he ran photograph the.

"frequency

plan" that' du agent vill

take

witl. 1:182, the one which: will be

transaltled by radio.

He car alse pintegraph the codes

and

dead-crops

4 1: 16.

1.7

agent wal.

MEDiNA has possibly travelec

to Mexico to buy photographer equipment. and matertal.

2.

MEDINA vai born an arroxina brare i35 and 110 pounds.

five -feet nine

Inches 1u heighe,

and seighs

He has a slie bulld, a fair corplexey, black, wavy hair.

and small (jes.

Headquarters Comments

In the referenced repore ef & July 196, source said that

1o, the chief of the Le Scetion sas psoudonys "Medina" but

REP CINCIA*T

SECRET

SO FOREIGE PISSEM

1 для

INSA

I& N'S

OCe

(Moto, fooled

INFORMATION RERORI

MATION REPOR

_ CLiLiA

LOL/SAR

LX-1630

NO PROJECT (AUVI

•SCI-316/00642-64

TOTALE

3i52

---

