ov TGOING. . IESSAGE

eae as siewaLermenuse ony aa
OMF O “ a oa o “ oO ™ 0 ™ oO io o vi ’
SECRET
steret ethene metros spree aS scat
con eft AF wor rue cf Plas. offslia, efits Y mm esr ones”
at 2, Belobo O weumere PER GOL”
: Dive (IA

.70! PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION. ¥
“ATTENTION: “INTD-cI/3 ¥
CIR-3Ub/OLB4S-77 YO a cHROND.
SUBJECT? INTERNAL SECURITY - cuBAY

1. A.FORMER SOURCE OF THIS AGENCY ADVISED THIS AGENCY ON 23
NAY 1927 THAT HE HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY. ROLANDO MARTINEZ, ANOTHER
FORMER SOURCE OF THIS AGENCY AND CONVICTED WATERGATE BURGLAR WHO
PASSED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION: , ;

{MARTINEZ ASKED OUR SOURCE’ TO RELAY THE INFORMATION TO
THIS. AGENCY +}

A. MARTINEZ WAS CONTACTED IN MAMI, FLORIDA BY SALVADOR
ALDEREGUIA, AKA "EL GALLEGO" AND ASKED TO MEET WITH A CUBAN INTEL-
LIGENCE OFFICER IN MONTEGO BAY, JAMAICA ON 24 MAY. ALDEREGUIA TOLD
MARTINEZ THAT IN VIEW OF MARTINEZ’ IMPRISONMENT AND MISTREATMENT
BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT {USG> FOLLOWING THE WATERGATE AFFAIR, THAT
NARTINEZ MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN MEETING WITH THE CUBAN IS OFFICER. ¥

B. MARTINEZ, ACCOMPANIED BY ALDEREGUIA. PLANS TO FLY TO
MONTEGO BAY AT 1200 HOURS, 24 MAY. THE CUBAN IS. OFFICER WHO IS TO
paren “,
onic:

unit: +, ty
EXT:

ctbsswnmenien £2. IMPDET

SORE T CL BY: pyanay



13-00000

oMF Oo 9g o oO a) Qo Ao
SECRET ene inane
CIA
. : O woes” DISSEM'BY:
conr: WFO: Fite. = Ono oer,
O scrum ro PER
0y9545

o.. #
MEET WITH THEM IS SUPPOSEDLY FLYING FROM CUBA AND NOT STATIONED IN

SJAMAICAs
+ MARTINEZ Is PREPARED TO BE DEBRIEFED AFTER HIS” RETURN

TO MIAMIs ACCORDING TO MARTINEZ+ THE FBT IS AWARE THAT HE HAS BEEN

APPROACHED. PREVIOUSLY IN MIAMI. ¥
D. MARTINEZ SAID THAT ALDEREGUTA IS A CUBAN EXILE wHo

WORKS FOR WORLD FINANCE COMPANY IN MIANIs FLORIDA. ¥ ;

2. THE ABOVE IS FoR YOUR INFORMATION AND WHATEVER. ACTION You
DEEM NECESSARY. ¥
: 3+ SECRET/WARNING NOTICE ~ SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEN. CLASSIFIED BY 912034. EXEMPT
FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF £.0. 11bse EXEMPTION CATE-
GORY SBfe}.- IMPOSSIBLE To DETERMINE DATE oF AuTonatrc DECLASSIFICA~
aoa elaleeg
ORIG? LA/COG/EXILE XL32535 COORD! A AGC/DDO ». CI/0G
WAT HSS AUTHE C/LAD TWARRENT3. REL: A c/PCS/LSN q [Pe

Date: 24 MAY 1972 D

ohic, RCu E

UNIT: CATCOGTCL C/LA/CO!

ext: 4925 [ i!
AGC/DD — Ei d

IC/PCS/LS,



13-00000

OUTGOING ‘1ESSAGE

OnF oO oO oO it} o oO o 1

SECRET
a sini cn Bisse
cont: ef ZA ro: me of Plans. fect, ef Pts Dm mens
cfurr, peelabe D teumve PER SD
; Dive # (92

.TOf PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION. ¥
5 :

ATTENTION: INTD=CI/3 ¥ © a :
CIR-3LL/03845-77 Y= : CHRONA
SUBJECT: INTERNAL SECURITY - cusay A tu

1. A.FORMER SOURCE OF THIS AGENCY ADVISED THIS AGENCY ON 23
MAY 197? THAT HE HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY ROLANDO MARTINEZ, ANOTHER
FORMER SOURCE OF THIS AGENCY AND CONVICTED WATERGATE BURGLAR. WHO

PASSED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:
{MARTINEZ ASKED OUR SOURCE’TO RELAY THE INFORMATION TO

THIS AGENCY.)
op A. MARTINEZ WAS CONTACTED IN MIAMI, FLORIDA BY SALVADOR

ALDEREGUIA, AKA "EL GALLEGO" AND ASKED TO MEET WITH A CUBAN INTEL-

LIGENCE OFFICER IN NONTEGO BAY. JAMAICA ON 24 MAY. ALDEREGUIA TOLD

MARTINEZ THAT IN VIEW OF MARTINEZ' IMPRISONMENT AND MISTREATMENT

BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT {USG} FOLLOWING THE ‘WATERGATE AFFAIR, THAT

MARTINEZ MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN MEETING WITH THE CUBAN Is OFFICER. ¥
8. MARTINEZ, ACCOMPANIED BY ALDEREGUIA, PLANS TO FLY TO

MONTEGO BAY AT LLO0 HOURS, 24 MAY. THE CUBAN IS. OFFICER WHO IS TO

DATE:
onic:
UNIT: tay
ext:

ct spenreenon — 2 IMPDET
CL BY: nyanaw

i aoa on = He



eo Oo
~ OUTGOING MESSAGE : 2 1
onF oO - oO . oO . oO 0 o oO aan
peecee a ——— on neenvunes
CIA
- OD mors DISSEM BY:
com mwto: Fie oe

“OYOSAS” 0 nromre PER

Po _ _ Done #
NEET ULTH THEM IS SUPPOSEDLY FLYING FROM CUBA AND NOT STATIONED IN

JAMAICA. 7
C+ MARTINEZ IS PREPARED TO BE DEBRIEFED AFTER HIS’ RETURN
TO MIAMI: ACCORDING TO MARTINEZ, THE FBI IS AWARE THAT HE HAS BEEN

APPROACHED PREVIOUSLY-IN MIAMI. ¥.
D. MARTINEZ SAID THAT ALDEREGUTA IS A CUBAN EXILE WHO

WORKS FOR WORLD FINANCE COMPANY IN MIAMI. FLORIDA. ¥
2@- THE ABOVE IS FOR YOUR INFORMATION AND WHATEVER ACTION YOU

DEEM NECESSARY. ¥

. 3. SECRET/WARNING NOTICE = SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. -EXENPT
FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION. SCHEDULE OF £0. L1LS2 EXEMPTION CATE-
GORY SB{2}. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE oF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICA-

THON ehaleog __)

ORIG: LA/COG/EXILE x1325}5 CooRD?A acc/pdo { __| ct706
{WwATHeS}% AUTH?  C/LAD {UARRENDS REL? AC/PCS/LSN del

DATE: OY

ohiG: RCW

vat: TAZCOG7EE C/LA/CO

ext; 1325
AGC/DDOX

f 7
cryo¢ 44 eae

IC7PCS/LSI

4

