# 104-10173-10403

## Page 1

104-10173-10403

SECRET/KOFORN

E88I-3/244767

TO

Dircetor

Todared Are of to paration

Feat Depatig Tirietor, Plans

BUNIROT !

22620)

Raternee la made to your morandm of 1l august 1960, you

£110 no. 100-370750, entitled Joha kird JAIGOR, Internal Sourity - E.

2o According to, dammentary infomation dated 1l January and

13 Yebruasy 190d, noquired eras a umally raltablo sourgo with accesa

to she inforation, the cuban Inatitata af hotion Peture Arto and.:

Indintry tan sarepsed in Untorest in having John Board Marsha, aSibi

raidart of California, no to Chia an a tencher and initer in the Cuben

sove tout.

so mollitate Lanions correspondence uith the Institute

ts Habana ho has boen glisa, the pdaress of Sorla Daro de TlASON,

Putrieto sonz so Departmento Gi Marco Mis D010 102100.

He s011

»i then bo giron to Teresa Monica Proonsa, Cultural Attanha of the

Cuban Embasay in Fartoo, for tomanting to tie tratitute.

Cor correspondenge hao also bsen arranged for bariton hes, mone addred

La Pala BaR 1027

Holihood, caltroria.

The instruito bas requested

a copy or noss flin, "mo House on Cedar lin", or any related documtarles.

3. Tho above inforation arould not de diencintaniod ontaldo jour

Eureau ithout pilor ensultation uith this agey.

lo Tor additional lutormition concerning Carlton MeS, you are

scared: to jour menarandm of 4 April 2950, Manington Viold Office Fi

o. 1001933, entitled Richard itor.

Taja afflee has Do seditional partilaint inforsation concurning

cub jee

COCI-3/76, T07

cos Departrant of State

SECRET/NOFORN

itripitts

141-103

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET/NOFORN

WH/W/R,

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

at RI (201 5603)

1 - CILIA

fond

• CI/ICO

WH/3/Mexioo

WH/L/CI

- WH/L/R

- WH/R

6. April 1961

BASIC:

EMMA -161,50

HANA 16626

PROJECTS LIBIOHN

(3

SECRET/NOFORN

28 1025

901-5663

---

