# 104-10308-10075

## Page 1

104-10308-10075

• Eguruary 1964

DI CERVENO FI

NCOMING SW MSG #352 FRON AHLISE-1, dated 21 January 19646

NGLI SIL TRANSIATION :

06

SG 353 & TODAY

RETURNED FROM CIENFUEGOS & SILE WAS NOT ABLE TO

PHILO WAS IN SANA CLARA X SAUREXXXSX

IS TIE WIFE

* SIE

TOLD TER

N:B FILALF OF

PAN WIN MAD NOT SENE ME MEN PACE MEANS SON IN

January) THE LEIANESE SHIP "MALOU BROUGHT GENERAL CALGO AND AMONG TILIS

ENERAL, CARGO TIME VIE EXPLOSIVES, BOND DETONATONS AND JEEPS & FROM LAS

.:.

URAS AT THIE END OF DECENTER TIIY REMOVED EIGHT MISSILES AND TOOK TILEM

OWARD CIENTUEGOS, TIEY DO NOT KNOW TIE (EXACT) PLECE & THIS WAS TOLD TO

& HUSB AND

15X

A GUAJRO WIO LIVES NEAR THE BRIDGE OF

ITANAROCA AND HID SAW TIM PASS AT NIGIT' & HE DID NOT SAY AT WIAT TINE OR

N WIAT MANNER * IN WAS AURAS TIERE VERE APYROXIMATELY 800 RUSSIANS AND AT.

PESENT THERE ARE APPROXIMATELY 40 %

IT IS PLANNED TO PUT A NET OR "MAYA"

ROM YASA CABALLOS TO JAGUA IN ORDER TO REVENT SUI ARINES FROM PASSING

NIO THE BAY & TIY MAD IREPARED AN ATTENT ON FIDEL WIICH FAILED BECAUSE

NE OF THE CONSPIRATORS INFEMED OR TALIED(SIOT OFF HIS BIG MOUTIL) & THE

TENT WOULD BE CARRIED OUT (WAS TO BE CARRIED OUT; AT AN END OF 'TIL;

BAR MEAL IN TIE JAGUA CASTLE & FOR MIIS REASON, SAYS, TIAT SO MANY INVE

BEN SILOT IN CIENFUEGOS & NARES UNKNOWN * D ETWEEN TIE TOWN OF PALMIRA AND

C CENRAY PORYUGARZTS A FIN MYS AGO TURE WAS AMENCO BETYERN S

MY AND ANTI-CASTRO FORCES I THE ARTILERY WAS HEARD FROM CIENFUEGOS & THE

BAD WERE TAKEN TO CIENFUEGOS AT NIGIT I THERE WERE MANY DEAD & DOES NOT

NOW IT TIE DEAD WIRE TRON HOME SIDES E END E

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

18 March 64

DI GERVENO/FI

OUTGOING SW MSG 44 TO AMLI SP-1

ENGLISH TRANSLATION:

Msg: 41. Last Msg. 376 received. Keep us informed in detail on all

assessination attempts and plots against Castro by civilians or

disaffected military. Also on actions conducted by rebels or

contserevolutionary groups and repression measures taken by the

government. Report details of every military alert giving its

duration, areas, movement of tzoops and arms including types, quantities

and how transported, movilization of doctors and medicines during the

alert explaining if civilian mutat medical facilities were novilized

for military use. the military coniacts oi AMuISP-3 have a wonderful

opportunity during the alerts to observe and report in detail the

conditions of readiness, strengh and morale of the armed Forces:

It is alos possible to observe during the military alerts the use and

storage of secret weapons that they may keep hiden during normal times.

Ask AMLISP-3 to enlarge his report on key locations

in Pinar del Rio

which the government was to dynamite in case of an invasion. Whoand

reported

how were the bridges, dynamited? If they are already dynamited, who and

how are the charges

protected? Who will give the orders to sei inew

off? Through what means of communication the orders will be given and

•to whom (individual responsable to execute them)? Can MLISP-3 report

the location oi ine principal concentrationo of lorcos in the province

identifying the units: tve of arms, number of soldiers, of militiamen,

permanent positions, movilization plans in case of an invasion, in case

internal

of an/uprising, in case of an attack by rebels? Can ALISP-3 locate

the underground petroleum and gasoline tanks at Cordillera los Organos,

San Felipe, Cayajabos, San Cristobal and give the amounts stored in

of these

each/places and others mentioned which we have already located.

- reported

---

## Page 3

13-00000

C

DI GERVENO/FI

COING SE LISA # 390 FROY MLISil; dated "14 May", 14 March 1964

"GLISH TRANSLATION:

Go # 3000 O' FROBIVTIG NOT. AUNTY NOY COPINISTS OPTICERS FOR A COUT DO

NI, I ASIED

TO ASK ORDAZ, DIRECTOR OF MAZORRA WIO IS NOT

COMMUNIST, IF TINUE VIE MANY OFFICERS SECRECR MIO WERE NOT CONCINIETS

THE HIM. ORING SAID TO

GULAX SIE COULD BE SURE ILAY TIE UNLY NON

PRUNIST COMAUDANTE WAS HE(ODAZ) : THAT ALI. ARNY OR NAVY OFFICERS WITI AN

¡PORTANT POSITION WERE FROVEN COMUNISTS, WIO WERE WATCHED AND WITO VERE

SERGIE FRFQUENILI CHANGED FROM ONE PLACE TO ANOTHER OL FROM ONE COOLAND

* ANOTHE

STED UIN IF/FEARED ANOTER A SEPTEMBER OR 10 NARCIL.

TO MICH HE TEPLIED) TAT IS VERY WELL CONPROLLED & TILEY CAN MEPARE IT(A

NO DESTAT) BUT WIEL THEY TINK IT IS SET, THE GOVERENT VILL HAVE TAKEN

OL THE "TINGAIS" OF TIE CONSPIPACY AND WILE EASILY DOMINATE TIL MATTER ; ME

IO ATTENPES OR TRIES TO ANITE TIE ANY IS CRAZX& IF ANYTING COTS FRON

INSIDE(ADROAD) IT NIKINES WOULD HAVE TO BE IN A IROPORTION DE TWENTY TO

NE IF IT IS GOING TO HAVE ANY POSSINILITE OF WINNING OR BECOMING A TRIUNPIE ;

VINEDAY THIE ARMY LEXINANXRLELEUUNED HAS MORE DISCIPLINE, PREPARATION,

TONY WEAPONS AND NOR REVOEETICARY CERVIE; EVERYDAY IT WILL ME MORE

INFICULE TO ATTACK CUBA AND YOU CAN HE SURE THAT FIDEL IS CONSOLIDATED;

O NOT IFT YOURSELF BE IMPRESSED WITH NEWS : I ASSURE YOU THAT EVERYDAY TIIIS

SNORE DIPTICULT TO OVERHEROY: YOU TOON TAT I HAVE BASES OR GROUNDS TO

iLK TO YOU LIKE ITIS.

TOLD ILIN TUT ON ANOTILER OCCASION TIIY WOULD

ISCUSS THESE BASES. HE REPLIED MIAT TIDY WOULD AND TAT 10: WOULD CONVINCE

ITE IN ORDIR TO REMOVE HER FEARL

WAS

AS

IX SICK SILE COULD NOT GO TO THE

NEILAL ON ORDAZIS FAMIL

VENT TO MAZORRA TO GIVE ON EXTIEND HIDI

ONDOLINGES TO ORDAI AND

IT WAS AT TILT TIE TIAT TIE ABOVE CONVERSATION

OOK PIA CEO OF COURSE

DOES NOT INOW ANYTHING ABOUT YOUR MESSAGE. END

---

