104-10438-10093}

=

jie susject: LEE HARVEY OSWALD

| Kexico City, Bagley pointed out that Kostikoy has been tentatively

Nas! we

. ~ oy
See 7
, UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT :
~ Memorandum r
a}
TO : Mr. W. C, Sullivan! DATE: 11/23/63

_-From’: Mr. D. J, Brennan, ak
r
' CO

a

fgg

an
The following information yas furnished to the Liaison

Is-8

Agent on 11/23/63, by Pete Bagley, CIA, ussk Pog
7 : ae =
] Bagley made_yeferenc: iformation previously disseminated
to the Bureau by ony pdicating that {on 10/18/63} Oswald had contacted
Bie ya ich tk: » Soviet Embassy," Mexico City, on Mex,
8/63. ~ At that time) Oswald inquire ere had been any Tesponsé—

from fiashington, D. C., concerning a request which he apparently;
made. ~ He again contacted the Soviet Enbassy on 10/1/63, ‘concerning
the same matter. CIA developed this information through a techiical -~

had

Surveillance of the Soviet Embassy. cos

. i 7 ome

= Si, Bagley stated that he wished to point out that Kostikoy, ,
Known RUB agent, is the same individual who has been in’touch-wich }
the’Buréau double agent-in the as TUMBIEWERD. (This
case relates to a double agent, who is being<operated

by us against the Soviets, He ntact with the Soviets in

identified with the Thirteenth Department of the KGB, which handles
Sse

Sabotage, and assassinations.) =
ma eOtR BE and assassinations.)

= lee bas) s
; w: With regard to his contacts with the Soviets, ve knew, merit
Fhrough a sensitive informant, on 11/18/63, that Lee Harvey Oswald //)f —
bad beeasin contact with the Soviet Embassy, Washint 2D. Cay at Te K
which time he related he had recently met with "conrad Getta jaa
oviet Enbassy, Mexico City, Oswald indicated to the So: iét Embassy,
esiington, D.., that he was unable to remain in Mexito because
of Mexican visa restriction of 15 days and that he could not request
a pew visa unless he used his real name, The same informent indicated
that Oswald originally had intended to visit the Soviet Embassy in >
Havana, Cuba, page he would have had time to "complete his business
but could not bea Ba of) 4B Ba ICS- 2S SEE
oe = =

ee ore Rig =

ee

A ih .
SyperO eet
eee For information.
= 82.
yes Heth out LAG, Sat} ig
. e

1 - Mr, Rosen

= kr. Sullive os
a w Wwe v BE

1 = Mr. Rogge
1 ~ Assassination of President John F, Kennedy,
11/22/63, Dallas, Texas

