# 104-10179-10182

## Page 1

104-10179-10182

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Z August 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMBANG-1

l, I met with AMBANG-1 on 27 July 1963 in Miami.

The following is a resume of the business transacted at that

meeting.

a. Request for High Explosives

AMBANG-I stated that in view of my outline

of strategic target inside Cuba during our last meeting which

took place in Washington on 21 June 1963, he had decided to

attempt a sabotage operai on against the Havana power plant.

He informed me that he has a man employed in the power plant

in Havana who is capable of launching this operation. In this

connection AMBANG-I asked if we could make available twenty

pounds of high explosives as well as six to eight thermite grenades.

AMBANG-1 asked if it were poscible to have the twenty pounds

broken irto smaller lots.

In our further discussion of this subject,

it became apparent that A-l would be willing to receive the materiel

either in San Juan or inside Cuba, but that he definitely preferred

the latter if thie were possible. Like in mist other instances during

our conversation, I advised AMBANG-1 that I would need to diecuss

this matter with my superiors but that I could tentatively assure

him of our ability and willingness to furnish the high explosives in

San Juan and possibly inside Cuba. At the point I asked AMBANG-1

if he could foresee the need for materiel of thie type inaide Cuba.

I told him that I asked thie question because if his group were

prepared now or in the near future for meaninglul sabotage action

inside Cuba it was conceivable that we could begin the caching of

needed materiel inside Cuba. AMBANG-! annured me that they

---

## Page 2

feisest+7+9 +495 29085962140

sites. i

- 2=

were in a position to sabotage the electrical plant in Havana. (I

did not ask, neither did he specify which plant.) He did not promise

Immediate action, adding that he wanted to assure himselt of the

details of the planned operation and the safety-odds of the man

involved. A-l then indicated that he would certainly be in a

position to accomplish this mission and others in the future and

would be most grateful for any materiel we could put in place.

I left the matter with him with the understanding that if it were

possible we would proceed with caching the high explosives in

the general area of Havana, He assured me of their capability

to serrice and retrieve the cache.

b. Request for Contact in Guantanario

AMBANG-l asked me if it would be possible for us

to arrange some means for Rogelio Cisneros to visit Guatanamo

and talk to his brother who is an employee of the Naval Base and

another agent of theirs likewise employed there.

The reason A-l

gave for the request was that they wished to inform Ramon Cisneros

Diaz of the JURE plans to begin the implementation of their plan

of resistance and overthrow of the Castro Regime.

I advised A-l

that whereas I would look into this matter as I could tentatively

tell him that the chances of accomplishing thia were remote.

c. AMBANG-1 Political Plans

AMBANG -1 informed me that he was planning at

this time to be in New York on or about 10 August and that following

this trip he intended to go to Santo Domingo and Caracas. In Santo

Domingo he hoped to set up a small base for operations such as a

small house on a farm near the shore which could be used for boat

travel to Cuba.

Once he had made such arrangements he intended

to talk to President Juan Bosch telling him of the plan and asking

his acquiescence if not support. AMBANG-1 intende to tell Boach

that he will not embarrass him and will go about his business in

secure and professional manner adding that if he should embarrass

Bosch, the latter could disclaim him and A-l would desist from

any further activity there,

So far as AMBANG-l's trip to Caracas la concerned, that

will be principally devoted to orienting the JURE representation

---

## Page 3

.. 1.

=3 -

in that city. In addition, AMBANG-I will attempt to see and talk

to Venezuelan Government officials including President Betancourt.

Some time after this trip AMBANG-1 intende to visit

Central America principally Costa Rica and if he can procure a

visa, Mexico. The purpose of all his travel is the raising of funds,

the general tightening of his organization and discussions neccssary

to coordinate their efforts.

d. Isolation of Cuba.

AMBANG-1 made it exceedingly clear that the

lifeline to his assets inside Cuba had been severely restricted

when PAA flights were suspended.

Nothing could suit AMBANG-1

more than to have these flights resumed.

AMBANG-l's obviously

great interest in the resumpti on of these flights was the most eloquent

statement yet of his belief that he has a network, or that he can

revive a network within Cuba. At least at this stage of JURE

operations, AMBANG-l does not appear to consider the infiltration

of manpower as necessary.

AMBANG-1 stated that the use of flights from Spain and

Mexico to Cuba was difficult and costly whereas the Miami-Havana

run had been most useful in maintaining contact within Cuba. It

was AMBANG-l's opinion that the resumption of PAA flights would

be an operational boom to JURE and that whereas he could see

Castro making some political capital out of the flights, he believed

that some appropriate statement such as "there is no political

significance but only a humanitarian and compassionate reason for

the reestablishment of this link, " would be suíficient to negate any

political advantage by Castro.

e. AMBANG-l Phasing Ou: of his Employment

AMBANG-1 gave me to believe that he is closing shop

and giving up his position with the Corporacion de Renovacion Urbana

y Viviendas where he is employed as an engineer in charge of building

re-cast concrete houses.

AMBANG-1 stated that during the past

week Governor Munoz Marin gave final authority for the erectio

of a plant to produce these houses in Puerto Rica. AMBANG-1 i8

---

## Page 4

.1

torn with the thought of leaving this project which he believes

will be most successful, and which would assure his livellhood,

but he know's thas he must devote himself to the fight against

Castro. Is io obvious to me that AMBANG-I will within the next

two months phase out of this employment to devote full time lo

the liberation of Cuba:

1. A JURE Radio Link

AMBANG-1 asked me if I would be able to assist

him in the establishment of a San Juan-Caracas-Miami radio link.

He explained that the JURE has spent a great deal of money on

telephonic communications between these points and were most

anxious 10 set up a means of radio communication in order 10

economize. I guess that AMBANG-I could tell from my reaction

that I was not too sympathetic to his reguest for he withdrew it

almost as soon as he had made it. He went on to say that this

was a problem which they could overcome and I presume that he

will seek to establish such radio communications without our

assistance.

8. Aerial Maps of Cuba

AMBANG-I informed me that the JURE membership

ad brought out of Cuba an entire series of maps showing key roads

ridges, industrial plants, et al, which they had copied by the Aer

Service Corporation in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

AMBANG-1

stated that they had received most of these photos from the Aero

Service Corporation but that the 101 were still missing. He gave

me the numbers of those missing and asked if we could procure them.

I have since informed AMBANG-l that it would perhaps be best it

he could, or his organization, do this instead but that we would

pay the travel of one of his men, should this prove necessary.

Attached, hereto, in a copy of the missing photos in question.

# JURE Organization and Strength

AMBANG -l ipformed me that the membership of the

JURE in San Juan was now at about 500 members and that each

of these individuals makes a weekly contributionto the organization

---

## Page 5

14-00000

• 5.

In addition there are large JURE organizations in Caracas, Venezurla

and Dallas, Texas. There are according to AMBANG! a 101al

of thirty delegations in Latin America, the U.S. A. and Europe.

Ho cited so an example the delegation in San Francisco which had

recently purchased a tyr ewriter through the collection of green

He added that Rogelio Cieneros had travelled 80 San

Franciaco some time ago 1o communicate with that group and to

tighten its organizational activities.

1. AMBANG-1 Asks About ARTIME and the Activities

In Central America

AMBANG-1 raised the question of Manuel ARTIME'&

activities in Central America and particularly in Nicaragua.

stated that any association with Somora would not help in creating

the mistique and political coloration necessary to inspire revolution

and resistance from the non-Communists clements in Cuba.

Whereas,

I had expected AMBANG-I to go into a long harangue as to the

positive damage that ARTIME's actions with Somoza could cause,

he left the matter at about this point. I agreed that the Somozas did not

have a liberal political reputation throughout Latin America, but

added that whatever Cubans could do from that or any vantage point

againat Communism in Cuba would in my estimation be helpful, --

while I am sure AMBANG-I did not agree with me, he did not say

80. In respect to ARTIME and Miro Cardona, whose name entered

into the conversation later, AMBANG-I took a fairly objective view.

He stated that Miro had arrived in San Juan and that he wished him

the best as he figured he had suffered enough. Insofar as ARTIME

was concerned I gathered that AMBANG & might feel that the associ

ation with Somoza would not do ARTIME any good in a post-Castro

Cuba. As AMBANG-l is convinced that a government after Castro

must be of a progressive liberal stripe, ARTIME was not doing

himself any good by identifying himself with the Somoras.

j. A List of Cuban Diplomats

AB AMBANG-I had auked for a list of Cuban Diplo-

mate abroad while wewere in Paris, I advised him that such a list

had been prepared and we would make it available to him. In thia

connection he asked if we could include the addresses of each of the

Cuban Installations. Speaking

of diplomats, AM BANG-! wanted to

---

## Page 6

-I

• 6.

know 1í Ambassador Gustavo Arcos had returned from Prague.

1 informed him that I did not know. AMBANG-I was most interested

to learn that Franqui's'wife and children had actually come out of

Cuba, and indicated that he would intensify his efforts to maintain

contact with Cuban Diplomat Cabrera Infante in Brunecle as a

means toward the eventual recrultment of Franqui.

* AMBANG-I Relation with Jorge Volsky

In conjunction with questions regarding propaganda

sent to Cuba,

and the JURE's general plans in this field, 1 asked

A-I about his relation with Jorge Volsky. A-l stated that be con-

aldered Volsky to be an extremely able, serious newspaperman.

He added that whereas he saw Voloky frequently on hio tripa to

Miami, the latter did not work for him. A-l stated that Volsky's

work was a full-time job which left him little time to do anything

else.

A-l stated that JURE propaganda was produced by a twelve

man board.

Al added that the JURE expected to shortly introduce a

statement on its position into Cuba.

1. AMBANG-1 Asks about Two Man Underwater Craft

A-l asked i! 1 knew anything about a two man type

craft which travels through the water. I presume A-l was talking

about the "sea-sled." I advised him that I know little about this

type craft, but in my opinion ite usefulness for the type activity

he had in mind was limited.

AMBANG-1 would use this craft for

the final phase of an infiltration effort. A-l stated that this craft

was being used at the hotel beaches in San Juan as a type of sporting

activity.

I will advise him that he could pursue this matter himeelf

as all knowledge on this subject is publicly avallable.

24

m. AMBANC-1 Trained in

A WAVE echnician, I. I under the name

of Mr. Lane trained A -1 to usé al

Joss/w. A-1

24

• .

3/pd

---

## Page 7

was given some eighty pilla with which he will be able to make

the "ink" used in this systems of S/W. A-l was pleased with the

ayalere, eIderinily in simplicily. Tie will use the systein to

communicate wich his chiel delegate in Paris and undoubtedly

other persons in Cuba as well as in the other JURE delegations..

* AMBANG-| is Wriling an Articie for Cuadernos

Al the request of German Arcienegas, the famed

Colombian intellectual, A-l is preparing an article which is to be

published in Cuadornos. The article will dea! with the problems

facing Latin America and how they can be resolved. A-l will be in

select compasy as Arcienegas has asked a number of prominent

Latin American insellectuals for their views.

0. Communication Between AMBANG-l and Case

Officer

AMBANG-I gave me the following addresses at which

he can be reached:

Corporacion de Renovacion

Urbana y Viviendas

PARADA 31

Ponce de Leon,

Hato Rey

Puerto Rico

Telephone No. 723-1671

(NOTE: This is not AMBANG's office or home, bul that of a

friend who is always able 10 reach A-l.)

Also:.

Mr. Jaime Mitrani

1260 W. 61 Place

Hialeah, Florida

AMBANG-I was given the following means of

contacting me:

to me.

Mr. Alfred Fernandez

P. 0. Box 1104, Main Poni Office

Washlagton, D. C.

Telephose No. 737-8294

AMBANG-! wili use the name "Tony" an a signature in mall

-.-

??::

---

## Page 8

- 8 -

2. General Observations

I beleive AMBANG-l is planning to resurn to Cuba.

He indicated that he would give the matter serious thought to

even go in, diguised, as a legal traveller if that road were

generally open, i. e., if rather large numbers of travellers were

going in via PAA fights. This line seemed a bit out of character

ior A-l, for it seems unrealistic and somewhat remindlul of Macaulay's

references to the state of mind that exiles develop. I also detected

what we consider to be a somewhat unrealistic appraisal of the Cuban

situation in A-l's estimate that Castro has coneiderably less than

$0% of the Cuban people with hir.. A-I may be losing more than a

little touch with Cuban reality.

A-l remains convinced that he le on the right track in

working for the eventual overthrow of Castro.

He in convinced,

however, that two to three years is all the time left for actually

destroying the Castro regime, believing that there will be a favorable

turn in the Cuban economic situation by late 1965.

A-l in likewise

convinced that Castro cannot add to the improvement of Cuba, to

the contrary that so long as the principal decisions are made by

Castro, the general trend will be confusion arising from a failure

so concentrate on specific problems until they are corrected.

AMBANG-1 18 likewise convinced that the JURE is building

a political group and general outlook which will have an impact on

Cuba for many years to come. He is especially concerned with the

• need to carefully consider each position of his group in order to

create the lasting impression that JURE knows where it is going

and that its leadership is composed of men who know how to "run"

= country without the false starts, confusion and chaos identified

with the Castro regime.

AMBANG-1 is likewise greatly concerned with the necessity

of not creating an impression inside Cuba that the JURE will return

to mete out "justice." It in easential, A-l stater, to convince the

general populace that the overthrow of Castro will not result in a

bloodbath, rather that the sole aim is to save the revolution that.

has been betrayed. He da anxious that the people inmide Cuba see

→. *" "4

---

## Page 9

-9..

the JURE as a responsible, intelligent and dispassionate group

which is capable of bringiss to Cuba all that the revolution promised.

Alfonso Rodrigue*

SAS, SO

Distribution:

1 - C/SAS

1 - SAS/ Bolten; Hecksber

1 - Chrono

1 - RAY File

.......

2ag22.404r.

---

