# 104-10167-10199

## Page 1

104-10167-10199

IT SEMENAN!

DATE

6 APR 60

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SE-CRE-Y

tO

DIRECTOR

FROM

HAVANA

ACTION

NO

→ "H NOTIFIED AND ISSUCO TORPO

COPY 1730-6 APR 60)

DO/P, COP, 100P/A, S/C 2

BOLTNG

APR 6 23518 60

TO

PRIORITY

IN 83119

CIL HAVA 7023

DIR

INFO

RYBAT MARC

REF DIR 22538 (OUT 60176)

1. OLIEN CONTACTED AMHAWK EVENING 5 APR. PASSEO ON SUBSTARICE REF.

HIS REACTION AS FOLLOWS:

A. AGREES LEGAL DEPARTURE PREFERABLE TO EXFILTRATION.

HAS RECO

INVITATION TO ATTEND CARACAS CONGRESS FOR DEMOCRACY WHICH: OPENS 21 APR:

PLANNING LEAVE HABANA 17 OR 18 APR. ATTEND CONGRESS THEN TRAVEL QUIETLY TO US.

WILL NEED NEW US VISA AND PLANS APPLY FOR IT IN CARACAS IN ORDER AVOID NEED CALL

AT EMBASSY HERE. WILL HOS PASS WORD CARA TO ASSIST?

416-17

dune

.. B. AGREES DROP IDEA OF PROPAGANDA SPLASH AT TIME OF DEPARTURE. PLANS

LEAVE WIFE AND 12 YEAR OLO DALSHTER IN HABANA UNTIL SCHOOL, TERM ENDS IN MID-JUNE.

THEREFORE SUITS HIS PURPOSE NOT BECOME IMMEDIATE TARGET FOR SMEAR CAMPAIGN OF

GOC. ALSO HAS TWO HOUSES ME WOULO LIKE TO DISPOSE OF IT AT ALL POSSIBUL. ONE

HOUSE WAS UNTIL RECENTLY A LATIN AMERICAN EMBASSY ANO HE I9 ENDEAVORING TO

FIAD ANOTHER DIPLOMATIC TENANT, HOWEVER, REALIZES STRONA POSSIBILITY ALL HIS

PROPERTY WILL BE CONFISCATEO UPON SURFACING EXILE GOVT.

6. MAY HAVE AS MUCH AS 10, 000 PESOS FOR CONVERSION FROM INSURANCE

POLICY NOW IN PROCESS CASMING, OLIEN PROMISED CONVERT UF TO THIS AMENT AT PAR

UPON DELIVERY PESOS.

S-E•C-R-C-T=

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITIO.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Capy Me.

VBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DATE

TO

flOM

ACTION .

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

STACERE-T

POUTING

PAGE 2

IN 33189 HAVA 4025

INFO

D.. SINCE HE WILL BE TRAVEL ING LIGHT TO CARACAS OL IEN PROMISED GET

ADDITIONAL CLOTHING TO MIAMI. IN ADVANCE OF HIS ARRIVAL. WILL SEND WITH NEXT

STATION COURIER.

•E. SAID HE MAS CONSIDERABLE QUANTITY UF DOCUMENTS WHICH WOULD BE USEFUL

TO EXILE GOVT. WAS TOLO ME WOULO UNDERTAKE TO DEL IVER THEM SAFELY TO MIAMI.

2. NEXT MEETING EVENING 12 APR. EMERGENCY CONTACT PLAN AGREED UPON.

AMHAWKS MORALE AND ATTITUDE EXCELLENT.

END OF MESSACS

C/S COMMENT: "ANHAWK PLANNED TO DEPART 15 APRIL.

REPRODUCTION DY OTHIR THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMINITID.

Copy No.

---

