104-10145-10055)

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page
Monday - 21 November 1977 .

20. (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Called Sam Hoskinson, NSC
staff, re Don Sandérs', Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, :
request for access to NSC documents related to thé [___fnvestigatio,
Hoskinson said he would see what could be done to speed up the NSC deter-

mination on Sanders' access in light of the interest to provide Sanders with
all information needed so that the investigation could be wound up,

21, (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Called Don Sanders, Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence staff, and explained our efforts to assure
that he has the remaining material in his hands no later than tomorrow
so that he can finish writing up his report on tho __pavestigation
but suggested that he call Sam Hoskinson, NSC staff, direc ly (I had
previously told Hoskinson that I would do this) on the NSC documents
since we were really not in control of the situation and our role has

been to see what we could do to facilitate resolution of the problem on
the documents. Mr. Sanders was most understanding.

22. (Internal Use Only - LLM) LIAISON Tom Latimer, Staff
Director, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, called
concerning an inquiry by Representative Jim Mattox (D., Texas) on
whether the Agency has any interest in the training of Ugandans in
Texas by Bell Helicopter. Latimer would prefer that we handle this
directly with Representative Mattox, stressing their policy of not
acting as an intermediary between the Agency and congressional inquiries.
I told Latimer I was sure we had no interest in this training but I would
check and if I had a problem I would reserve the option to get him involved.

He also said that Representative Les Aspin (D
of. the publicity, on the activities of the!
is interested in our| Oo prevent, for
example, | “‘Ttold Latimer ©
that there are limitations"accomplished through third agency activities
which are proscribed for CLA and I would get together for him whatever
written regulations exist on this point.

23, (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Called Jackie Hess,. Researcher,

House Select Committee on Assassinations, and gave her a status report oa

all actions received from the Committee,

2/s/2qo

