# 104-10063-10429

## Page 1

104-10063-10429

12 07 392FE672

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASH FORCE

ON

021/93

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL /

SECRET 020646Z FEB 72 CITE

71946]

HEADQUARTERS

RYBAT MHCURB MHCHAOS

P..n. ==

REF:

T026 May May1!

FOL

WE HAVE BEEN COORDINATING WITH LOCAL LNERGO REP ON VARIOUS

MACHAOS MATTERS WHEN SUCH COORDINATION SPECIFICALLY AUTHORIZED BY

HQS. IN MOST INSTANCES LNERGO REP HAS BEEN AWARE OF CASES AND HAS

MADE APPROPRIATE ARRANGEMENTS WITH

AVOID DUPLICATION WE HAVE NOT DISCUSSED THESE CASES WITHOUR

I CONTACTS!

FBI

INFORMATION REQUESTED BY HQS ON BEHALF LNERGO] IS DEVELOPED BY

FBI

LNERGO FROM

7(S)

A CASE IN POINT IS SUSAN

FRANK

(HOS 6299). LOCAL LNERGO, REP WELL AWARE OF FRANK LAND. HAD

IS FRANK HAS NOW LEFT

AND RETURNED

•FBI.

TO

U.S. [LNERGO) REP HAS ADVISED ENERGO HQS.

AS, A RULE LOCAL LNERGO REP

DOES NOT INFORM STATION OF [

REPLIES ON VARIOUS MHCHAOS.

SUBJECTS. WE HAVE NOT TAKEN ISSUE WITH THIS PRACILI

SINCE IN THE

CASES UNDER DISCUSSION INITIAL QUERIES CAME FROM (LNERGO HQS.

3. POINT WE WISH TO MAKE IS THAT LACK OF RESPONSE FROM

STATION ON VARIOUS MHCHAOS SUBJECTS SHOULD NOT BE INTERPRETED AS LACK

Cassited t

Declassi

Asson:

PE JH/i

Policy

8610

(4)

(3)

Discor

Beply:

195-10

---

## Page 2

14-00000

PAGE 2

LNERGO} REPL

1046 SECRET.

4

OF ACTION ON OUR PART. ALL CASES SO AUTHORIZED ARE COORDINATED WITH

WHILE IT IS POSSIBLE THAT LOCAL (LNERGO REP MIGHT

PROVIDE US COPIES OF

RESPONSE ON MHCHAOS SUBJECIS, WE

DOUBT HE WOULD DO SO WITHOUT PRIOR (LNERGO HAS AUTHORITY. GP-1

SECRET

---

