DISPATCH

Chief, European Division

pose
0

IHFO,

R. PASHAN
SECRET

Chief of Station,

“KT RYBAT /SYMPATHIZER/ MH COLOR)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:

a

References: -A.- DIRECTOR 224537

B.
Cc.

20798
20797

Attachments

Distribution:

GROUP I

TT

Orig. & 2 = Chief, BURT

Lv

ae
cb CAT UCL
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEGNG REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

1. Attached for European Division are English language
translations of the press clippings concerning Willem OLTMANS
mentioned in the references together with copies of the orginal
Dutch language press articles.

2. Also attached is compilation of OLTMANS' contacts
with the Soviets which was prepared by ‘SY:
requests this material be treated as very sensi
based almost exclusively upon technical covera

IZER.~The latter

AKO bbe,

Kenneth D..

As stated above herewith

£3 GOre

ROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYHBOL AND NUMBER

CONHA>38577

CLASSIFICATION.

SECRET

w/atts

PIKELNY

h/w

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

DATE

1 February 1972
HOS ALE NUMBER:

201-155221



{
i
i
H
i

oC C

Subject: W.L.OLTMANS (10 June 1925)

on 29 December 1971 OLTNANG invited the Cultural Attache of the
Russian ‘Embassy KUZNETSOV for an evening in his house. The invit-
ation was also for some other members of the Russian Representation.

_At the same time OLTMANS was to invite some six important journalist:

KUZNETSOV should ask OPALEV and IZWEKOV to come along with him.

_The date agreed’ on originally was 11 January 1972. It then was

changed twice. When 1) January also wasn't suitable, it was agreed
on -7 January to make the date for 18 January 1972 at 20,00 hrs.
From the invitation it.could only be infered that OLTMANS wanted

EE ba offer his guests an opportunity for an informal discussion. .

“About the background of the present good relations of OLTMANS with

the Soviet Representation in The Netherlands, section B is able to
report the following: ..
(This information comes from vulnerable source - OPPERBAAS.)

hipaa September 1970 OLTMANS says with some surprise that he sudden-
ly received an invitation to a party at the Russian Embassy,
He thinks it crazy; he doesn't belong to that club at all. But
‘his. thinking is along the lines of those people.

2, In October 1970 OLTMANS appears to be interested in an interview
with KOSYGIN's son-in-law GVISHIANI who allegedly was connected
with American-Russian discussions about forming a mutual "think~
ing factory".

Presumably this had some connection with the so called Club of

Rome in which GVISHIANI plays a role.

Remark: GVISHIANI is chairman of the state committee for science
and technology and is suspected to be a highly placed
Intelligence Officer.

: 3. Begining March 1970 OLTMANS contacted:-the Press Attache OPALEV

from the Russian Embassy; OLTMANS would still like to have an
interview with GVISHIANI.

It would be.a filmed interview in which OLTMANS would cooperate
with the Nos. (TV).

In this period OPALEV's cooperation does not yet seem very
extensive,

4, Thanks to the cooperation of Aurelio PECCEI, chairman of the
Club of Rome, OLTMANS at the end of April 1971 succeeded’ in get~-
ting in contact with GVISHIANI in Paris.
Also present at this discussion was the former member of the Russ:
Embassy FEDEROVSKY, now chief of protocol of the state committee
for science and technology.


e

j

2.

At this opportunity GVISHIANI immediately invited OLTMANS for a
visit to Moscow.

FEDEROVSKY .was instructed to inform. the Russian Embassy in The
Yague about it:

GVISHIANI who at the same time is chairman of the coimission for
environment administration in the Soviet Union, asked OLTMANS ‘to
make a film at the same time about the environment administration
in’ the Soviet Union to support the international environment
conference to be held this year. :

Begining May it Decones clear that since OLTMANS' discussion with

GVISHIANI, .OPALEV's attitude towards OLTMANS has greatly changed.
OPALEV is now all. willingness.

In May OLTMANS makes his film with GVISHIANI and receives an inv-
itatiom.to come to the Soviet Union for the second half of. August
and the whole: of September, where he could film ten scientific

" institutes..

10.

GVISHIANI told OLTMANS that he d complete trust in hin.

In June 1971 OLTMANS again contacted GVISHIANI, this time in

Vienna, where there was a meeting of the Club of Rome.

Begining October 1971 OLTMANS again saw GVISHIANI in Paris, where,
among other things he spoke to. him about his visit fe The Netherla
in the second week of October.
OLTMANS did his begt. to oblige GVISHIANI while visiting The Neth-
erlands by trying to establish business relations for him (for
instance with Philips

receveel

In November 1971 oupuans’’ from the Russian state television an
offer for a five year contract to make exclusive films in the
Soviet. Union. ©

This offer was made to OLTMANS during his visit to the Soviet
Union. It is coneretization of the earlier offer by GVISHIANI to
film a number of scientific institutes in the Soviet Union.

On 17 November OLTMANS allegedly discussed this business further
with GVISHIANI in Geneva.

On 23 January 1972 OLTMANS will make another visit to Moscow to
discuss making the above mentioned films without the participation
of the NOS. At this opportunity OLTMANS will leave behind a memo
about LUNS in connection with OLTMANS' present agitation against
the Secretary-General of NATO.

OLTMANS wants to prevent LUNS getting any future opportunity to
visit Moscow.

Referring to the meeting in OLTMANS' house on 18 January 1972 it
can be. reported fhat on 17 January 1972 OLTMANS stated that he
is again seeking reaction from the Russians who will visit him on
18 January; their reaction in connection with OLTMANS' request

to the general prosecutor of the High Council to bring action
against LUNS,

’


fle
1
|
{
|
|
|
i

aly
.

oY

3.

In the morning on 18 January OLTNANS also stated that KUZNETSOV
said, that. OLTMANS'. action against LUNS will not succeed bihlesterted
the "bosses" stand behind LUNS.

It is not clear. when KUZNETSOV said this to OLTMANS, but ‘it is

known’ that OLTMANS recently attended a meeting where a nuniber
of Russians were. present.

(Possibly. the nieeting of the Association "Nederland-USSR" with
the delegation from "USSR-Nederland" on 14 January 1972.)

on’ 19 January 1972 “at was reported that ‘HOFLAND (one of the guest

invited toi the evening, in OLTMANS' house) called before his
arrival and asked whether he could bring a friend.

Afterwards. this friend 3c to be Peter ZONNEVELD from De
Telegraaf.

OLTMANS said that at the press conference which he (OLTMANS )
will give on 20 January 1972 several guests, Milo ANSTADT,' Rob ©

‘KOPULT and Jaap JANSEN will defend OLTMANS against the attack on

him in, De Telegraaf" of this morning.

19 January 1972.
