# 104-10128-10260

## Page 1

104-10128-10260

SECRET

(18 ben Filled In)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER

2. NAME (LAS-FirsI-Middle)

024345

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

PHILLIPS, DAVID A.

REASSIGNHENT

VTOV

6. FUNDS

CF TO Y

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/WH

FOREIGN FIELD

BRANCH 5

V TO CF

CF TO CF

16-20

11. POSITION TITLE

12. POSITION NUMBER

ISt SECRETARY, POLITICAL OFFICER

0186

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB, e86.)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE AND STEP

ESR

03 7

_GS

18. REMARKS

0136.05

164

FROM: DDP/WH/COG/OFF OF THE CH/POS #1105

HOME BASE WH

APPROVED 25ga attached

"DATE PREPARED

12 January 19%0

A. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

MONTH

DAY

YEAR

0s lu 1

70

7, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO

CHARGEABLE

TS. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office o

Personnel!

0135 0694

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

16-20

T13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

17. SALARY OR RATEC!

23, 646..

5011,519

1 - Finance

2 - Security

I8A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

188. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

HENRY L.

BERTHOLD

C/HE/PerE

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21.

CODE

CODE

OFFICE CODING

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

22. STATION

23. INTEGREE

724. ADOTRS. 25. DATE OF BIRTH

26. DATE OF GRADE

NUMERIC

ALPHABETIC

CODE

CODE

MO.

DA.

MO.

DA.

vR.

DATE SIGNED

27.

но.

DATE OF LEI

DA.

vr.

28.

WTE EXPIRES

MO.

DA.

YR.

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30.

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

TYPE

NO.

DA.

vR.

33. SECURITY

REQ. MO

34. SEX

EOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE

CODE

A MONE

36. SERV. COMP. DATE

но.

DA.

vR.

1-5 PT.

12-10 PT.

41.

CODE

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENY SERVICE

O-- NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

I- NO BREAN IN SERVICE

- BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YEA

-BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 TEA

43. POSITION CONTROL CERTITICATION

P5 CONG COME ONE

138.

CAREER CATEGORY

CODE

39.

FEGLI/ HEALTH INSURANCE

CODE

O-WAIVER

HEAITH INS. CODE

I-YES

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

42. LEAVE CAT. 43.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

FORM EXECUTED | CODE

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

I-YES

2- M0

144.

FORM EXECUTED

1-ms

STATE TAX DATA

CODE NRiTAN STATE CODE

46. 0.P. APROY RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE APPROVED

-BY 1152

(4)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

GROUP

ERCLUDED TRO BASIA HOS

DOWNERADINE

z/A1

---

## Page 2

14-00000

i. i

I RESIGN EFFECTIVE

SECRET

(When Filled In)

EMPLOYEE NOTIGE OF RESIGNATION

_ FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:

(Dase)

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE-

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

FORWARD COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number, Sereet, Ciry, Stare, Zip Code)

INSTRUCTIONS

Items 1 thru 7

and

Items 9 thru 18a)

Item 5 - "Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

Part Time

Detail Out

Temporary

Detail In

WAE

Consultant

Military

Temporary-Part Time

Item 9 - "Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization pertinent to identify-

ing the location of the position:

FIRST

Major Component (Director, Deputy Director, etc.)

Office, Major Staff, etc.

Foreign Field or U.S. Field (if pertinent)

Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)

Branch

Section

Unit

Items 11 and 15 - "Position Title" and "Occupational Series" should be the standard abbreviated title and

series of the position occupied

as shown on the most current edition of the Position Con-

trol Register or Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization, explain under item

18-Remarks.

Item 18b - Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for the Career Service to which

the employee belongs. If more than one Career Service is involved, she gaining Career Serv

ice should attrore and the other Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks.

ROUTING- The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel through the appropriate

In the case of requests specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance

a pree service forifcation so the Office of Security or the Office of Finance, one copy oaly wilt

SECRET

---

