# 104-10132-10173

## Page 1

104-10132-10173

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

& DIRECTOR

SERN

C/EE 3 (EE NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1555-26 NOV)

NPO : DOP, ADDP, C/CI, C/SR 5,1

D/OS 2,

VR

2

3

ROUTING

141

5

161

SET: ET 261997Z

INNEDIATE DIR INFO INMEDIATE GNVA CITE BERN 2493

26 kor 63 1N 6 83 4.4

MORE KUDESK INK

RaP RaaN 2890 (19 68313)

¡dUL STATION COMMENTS RE SUSSIANCE PARA 3 REF BASED

EXAMINATION OF REF NEMO AND INANITION 6 TELEPHONE ANSWERS

TO STARD QUERIES.

achard T.

?. DELICATE SOURCE REFERRED TO IS

IM LAUSANNE APPARENTLY UNDERTAKEN BY

NOT PREVIOUSLY KNOWN TO STATION. APPEARS

LIKELY IT UNDERTAKEN IN RESPONSE TC STATION REQUEST FOR INFO RE

GIESON IN CONNECTION "REVOLUTION" MAGAZINE AND HIS AND ITS

CONNECTIONS TO CHICOMS SUISSE, OR TO GATHER DATA TO REPLY TO ODENVY

REP REQUEST FOR INFO. ANTICIPATE CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT IN TALK WITH

IVANITION 6 ON 27 NOVEMBER.

3. IN ANSHEE IO ELYARD QUERIES INANITION & STATED TAP, INFO

THAT UNKNOWN PARTY

IN CONVERSATION WAS NOT NATIVE FRENCH SPEAKER, PROBABLY NOT A SWISS,

TO OPARLY A FIPELONER. INANITION & PROMISED CHECK WITH INANITION

INSPECT OR AND HAVE

CHECKED FOR POSSILE FURTHER CLUES TO

IDENTITY SPEAKER.

i Me

5÷1

118

SECRET

---

## Page 2

INLESSLA PAGE 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Gauli

"4: APPEARS JLEAR CISSON REFERENCE IHROUCHOUT CONVERSATION

IS TO ACTIVITIES OF FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE WRITH WHICH HE

AND OSWALD ASSOCIATED.

5• CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON IN NEW YORK REFERRED TO AS "LY"

POSSISLE THIS COULD BE

(MORE PROBARLY LEED PHONETIC.

REFEPEICE TO LEE OSWALD BUT FROM CONTXT THIS SEEMS UNLIKELY.

6. CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON REFERRED TO AS "TIBOR" (PHONETIC).

% FROM CONVERSATION CONTENT CAN NOT IDENTIFY OTHER CALLER.

SPECHLAIIVE COMMENS BELOWE!

MAY BE ABLE IDENTIFY OR MAKE BETTER

HYPOIEZSIS AFTER TALK WITH INANITIONS RE DETAILS OF

COVERACE INCLUDING WHERE UNKNOWN SPEAKER APPARENTLY LOCATED.

8. CLOSE ASSOCIATE GISSON IS FREDY GILBERI NILS ANDERSON,

BORN 14 FEBRUARY 33, LAUSANNE, SWEDISH NATIONAL, LAUSANNE RESIDENT,

EDITOR-PUBLISHER. SEE ATT TO ESSA 12659 FOR FURTHER INFO

INCL CONTACTS TO CHICOMS BERN AND PEIPING. POSSILE THESE TWO

MEN WOULD CONVERSE IN FRENCH BUT ENGLISH WOULD DE MORE LIKELY LANGUAGE.

9. POSSIBILITY OTHER CONVERSATION PARTNER IS JACQUES VERGES,

COMMUNIST, FORMER DIRECTOR OF LA REVOLUTION AFRICAINE, NOW BASED

PARIS. NOTE VERGES CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH CHICOM LINE IN FRANCE AND

IN SUISSE, HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SWISS "CHINESE COMMUNIST"

SPLINTER PARTY CENTERED VEVEY. VERGES, ANDERSON AND GIBSON

ASSOCIATED NEW ISSUE OF MAGAZINE PRINTED IN MONTREUX.

PUP ICATION NOW BEARS TITLE "REVOLUTION", SUBTITLE "AFRICA,.

LAT IN AMERICA, ASIA". EDITIONS IN SPANISH, FRENCH,

ENGLISH.

17. IN ANSWEP ELMARD QUERY INANITION & STATED

OF GIECON CONTINUES AND PROMISED ARRANGE PASSAGE CONTENT TO STATION

FADE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ii-n...

FLASSIFIED MESSAGE

17087

IN 68-344 PAGE 3

AND ODENVY REP ON FRIORITY BASIS. WILL DISCUSS DETAILS AT 27

NEVER PER MEET.

11S IANITION 6 INDICATED REFERENCE TO LIMIT SET FOR

GTRSON DEPARTURE FROM SUISSE BEFORE 15 DECEMBER 63 REFERS TO

WIGS DECISION NOT TO RENEW HIS RESIDENCE PERMIT BEYOND

¡HAT DE. WILL CLARIFY AT Z7 NOVEMBER MEET.

I?• KUBARK ONLY: ODENVY REP BERN CABLING HIS HQS MOST IF NOT ALL

OF INANITION VEMOS REF. IN INTERESTS SPEED STATION OFFERED HANDLE

AT TRAP::" HE WISHED ORIGINATE BUT HE PREFERRED HANDLE VIA HIS

PI:. ICY CHANNEL. NOT AWARE WHAT COMMENIS HE MAY MAKE RE CONTENT

OF: NITION REPORT. ESSENCE BUT NOT ALL DETAILS ABOVE INFO GIVEN

TO HIM CRALLY IN DISCUSSION PRIOR TO DISPATCH REF AND THIS CABLE.

VE PRESENT DURING ELMARD PHONE TALK WITH INANITION 6. WILL

CONTINUE FULL CORDINATION WITH HIM RE REF MATTER.

13. KUBARK ONLY: AS HINTED IN INANITION MEMO AND ORALLY

SY INANITION 6 TO ELMARD, INANITION WORRIED RE POSSIBILITY

ODENVY MIGHT FEEL UNDER SUCH PRESSURE RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

THAT SOMEHOW IT WOULD LEAK INFO RE GIBSON AND OSWALD CONTACT IN

MANNER WHICH WOULD EXPOSE

BELIEVE

WE CAN OSTAIN ALL INFO PROM

DP. ANY OT HEP COVERA CE

OF GIPSON OR MEBOCIAIES AND

PROBABLY GET ACCESS TO ORIGINAL

AS LONG AS QUESTIONS OF "COURT RECORDS" OR "EVIDENCE" ARE

SOFT PEDALLED.

14• ANOTHER CABLE FOLLOWS.

GÜCRET

C/S COMMENT: *RE GIBSONS ASSOCIATION WITH "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE" AND ALSO

WITH LEE HARVE: OSWALD.

---

