104-10069-10376]

GE Tor DB-SLS/OL26b-7b
pist22 JUNE 1976 SN :

ag pont CLASS S & CR E TeeWARNING NOTICE“SENSITIVE INTEL LL IGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED} #ACT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS*= !
NOT RELEASASLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSUL TANTS : a |
countey: o CUBA/P ANAMA/ DOMINICAN ,REPUBLIC 5 if '
ool 2h JUNE 1976 ¢

~  SUBYECT! Osossiste PLANS OF CUBAN EXILE EXTREMISTS TO BLOW UP &

CUBANA AIRLINER

acar (22 JUNE 1976)

SOURCE! A BUSINESSMAN WITH CLOSE TIES TO THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNTIY.

‘ HE 1S.A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER.

2uZ
a. A CUBAN EXILE EXTREMIST GROUP» OF WHICH otanno Sos H

16 A WEADER, PLANS TO PLACE A BOMB ON A CUBANA AIRLINE FLIGHT

TRAVELLING BETWEEN PANAMA AND HAVANA, ORIGINAL PLANS FOR THIS OPERA®

TION CALLED FOR TWO BOMBS BEING PLACED ON THE 21 JUNE 1976 CUBANA.

FLIGHT NUMBER 467) WHICH WAS SCHEDULED TO LEAVE PANAMA AT 12115 Asm

LOCAL PANAMA TIME, : of

2. BOSCH IS CURRENTLY RESIDEING IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. .,
(SOURCE COMMENT! BOSCH WAS ARRESTED IN COSTA RICA IN FEBRUARY. IT

1§ NOT KNOWN WHEN HE WAS RELEASED.) = (6-Zio

“43, FIELD DISSE! sent Tof prey

Seeazone coy -nernODUCTIORS


fone
«ome

LETE PREVIOUS

3007 OSU Ea ;
- . ae /
i Roe iy 158679
att > roRIR DB-325/0b28b-7b :

EUIODS INVOLVED PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO “

SECRET. ~ FURTHER DISSEMINATION ANO USE, OF
. CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING, AND END OF REPORT.

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLACENCE SOURCES AND ¥!

REPORT CLASS SE CR

felassineation) 4 ‘a

2

E TeeWARNING NOTICE*SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
D METHODS INVOLVED<*NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONAL S*=

NTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSUL TANTS»
XGDS-2.

SOURCES AN

NOT RELEASABLE TO CO

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. .
. ia

po:
4
Y NAVY AIR JCS SWS NSA TREAS

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO STATE DIA ARM
TO EAA SS/TD FBI CIA/OPSCENTER-

rf)

URE CARO REPRODUCTIONS

*APEAT
