# 104-10326-10074

## Page 1

104-10326-10074/

MINO: 95-2374342

SENSIND:

SECRET

RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE:

*AVAILABLE TO THE AUTHOR OF A RECENT BOOK ON THE< KENNEDY>

* ASSASSINATION

4.5. STATION WILI, ADVISE HOS OF IMPRESSIONS OF CODEL,

SHELBY AT CONCLUSION OF VISIT. THANKS FOR

PROMPT AND

SEDUCED TUL SUEFORE I PEELARATIONS FOR HES VIETTE

NONE. DECL DADR DRV HUM 4=82._

SECRET

1

FRP:

,?,

ADV: CE/W/MB (11022)

STAFF

ACTION: CE/W/MB (773)

FILE,

CE/W,

DDO (4/W)

INFO: CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, COMPT, LIMITO, MDSX,

95 1374342

ASP

PAGE 001

TOR:

1611022 AUG 95

N 1374342

14144

SECRET 1610592 AUG 95 STAFF

CITE

14144 (FALANTZ ACTING)

TO:

PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR :

LIMIT

/CE/W/MB INFO C/CE/W

SLUCS:- WINTEL RYBAT CODEL.

SUBJECT:

REF:

BRIEFING PAPER AND OSWALD FILES

DIRECTOR 404798 95 1366840 '

TEXT :

1.

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI OR COMMENT

-2-.-

STATION IS FAXING TO HOS A COPY OF BRIEFING PAPER

FOR CODEL SHELEY, REVISED IN ACCORD WITH SUGGESTIONS OF *®

REFERENCE. UNLESS ADDITIONAL REVISTONS ARE REQUIRED, THIS

IS THE COPY WHICH WE WILL PROVIDE TO CODEL TO READ, BUT NOT

APPRECIATE SUMMARY INFORMATION REGARDING

HISTORICAL CONVERSATION WITH

JABOUT FILES ON

*<LEE HARVEY OSWALD.> ACOS BELIEVES HE DID SEE THE

MENTIONED IN REF. AT TIME OF RECEIPT STATION WAS VERY BUSY

AND IN ACCORD WITH "READ AND BURN" BOLICY. A COPY-WAS-NOT

L RETAINED. A RETRANSMISSION IS_ NOT NECESSARY

ALSO, IT MAY

NOT BE" NECESSARY FOR HOS TO PURSUE THE MATTER FURTHER,

SINCE SUMMARY INFORMATION WILL PROBABIX SUFFICE.

ADDITIONALLY, ACOS HAS LEARNED THAT YESTERDAY THE ≥

AMBASSADOR SUBMITTED A DIPLOMATIC NOTE TOL

WHICH IS AN OFFICIAL REQUEST FOR

ODPD,

--

---

## Page 2

13-00000

(MHENOY

END OF

95-1374342

MESSAGE

SECRET

/ SENS IND: "RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE :

2

SECRET

---

