# 104-10121-10284

## Page 1

104-10121-102841

AGEN

SECURITY REGULATIONS CERTIFICATION

Dare 20 agre 1965

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE READ THE SECURITY REGULA-

TIONS MANUAL OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

I UNDERSTAND THESE REGULATIONS AND WILL ABIDE BY

THEIR PROVISIONS.

Bernal I Preten

signature

DAVIDS, MORALES

NAME (typed or printed)

FORM

6. 63

• 2108

14-12)

---

## Page 2

14-000009

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. I, -

dared i. Torches

-, understand that upon enter-

Ing on duty with the Central Intelligence Agency I am undertaking a posi-

tion of trust in that Agency of the Government responsible to the Presi-

dent and the National Security Council for intelligence relating to the

security of the United States of America.

I understand that in the

course of my employment I will acquire information about the Agency and

its activities and about intelligence acquired or produced by the Agency.

2. I have read and understand the provisions of the Espionage Act, Title

18, USC, secs. 793 and 794, and I am aware that unauthorized disclosure

of classified

information relating to the national defense may subject

me to prosecution for violation of that Act, whether such disclosure be

made while I am an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency or at any

time thereafter.

3. In addition, however, as I am undertaking a position of trust, I have

a responsibility to the Central Intelligence Agency not to disclose any

classified information relating to the Agency without proper authoriza-

tion. I undertake, therefore, not to discuss with or disclose to any

person not authorized to hear it such information relating to the Central

Intelligence Agency, its activities, or to intelligence material under

the control of the Agency. I further understand that this undertaking

is a condition of my employment with the Central Intelligence Agency, that

its violation may subject me to immediate dismissal for cause or other

appropriate disciplinary action, and that this undertaking shall be equally

binding upon me after my employment with the Agency as during it.

information is classified and if so, who is authorized to receive it,

the Agency, and failure to obtain such a decision will be grounds for my

dismissal.

5. I understand that my unauthorized action or utterance in the nature

of a publication or which would reasonably be expected to result in pub-

licity on intelligence or intelligence activities would be in violation

of Government and Agency regulations and would be grounds for my dismissal.

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM

5-63

368

GROUP 1

Excluded from o-'amotie

econgroding and

declassificarion

(12)

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

6. I understand that for all grievances and complaints there are estab-

lished procedures within the Agency permitting appeal by any employee of

the Agency and to carry any such grievance or complaint outside the Agency

will be considered a violation of the undertaking set forth above in

paragraph 3. If the appeal procedures are inadequate in any situation,

I am aware that the Inspector General is at all times available to any

employee with a legitimate criticism, grievance, or complaint.

7. I further understand and agree that my employment by the Central In-

telligence Agency is conditioned upon my understanding of and strict

compliance with CIA Security Regulations, and the appendices thereto.

8. Inasmuch as employment by the Government is a privilege not a right,

in consideration of my employment by CIA I undertake not to publish or

participate in the publication of any information or material relating to

the Agency, Its activities or intelligence activities generally, either

during or after the term of my employment by the Agency without specific

prior approval by the Agency.

I understand that it is established Agency

policy to refuse approval to publication of or participation in publication

of any such information or material.

9. I agree that all information or intelligence acquired by me in con-

nection with my official duties with the Central Intelligence Agency

remains the property of the United States of America, and I will sur-

render, upon demand by an appropriate official of the Agency or upon

separation from the Agency, any material relating to such information

and intelligence in my possession.

10. I take the obligations set forth above freely, without any mental

reservations or purpose of evasion.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this-

2" day of

tal, 19/25

Arand A Merel)

Witness:

Celet Bengi

CONFIDENTIAL

i said dicin

Date

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

"(When Filled In)

RELEASE OF PERSONNEL SECURITY INFORMATION PLEDGE

NAME OF SUBJECT

RELEASING OFFICER

DATE SHE: 19:3

FILE NO: $ 4118

REQUESTING AGENCY L

As a duly accredited representative of the Requesting Agency

named above, I understand that all personnel security information

released to me concerning the Subject by review of his file, by

memoranda, by copies of reports, or by any other means is furnished

in strict confidence in connection with my official duties. Accord-

did Pit

1. The information is for official United States Govern-

ment use only and will be handled in accordance with

its classification.

2. The information, the source thereof, the identity of

informants, and the collection methods will not be

divulged nor disseminated to anyone, except officials

of the Requesting Agency named above on a strict

need-to-know basis.

3. The information will not be divulged in any hearing

or board action without the prior written consent of

the Central Intelligence Agency.

03

5-26.05

2095

SECRET

EXICOTI TROM ALTAMATIC

1121

---

