. epee TORT ca. 10 July 1963]
eqns C0 ESTES

Po t 0 besputy Lareeter far levrdinacion
Bureau of laieliigesc: and “eee.
Gepartmeat of 21a

4
S
x

bapety Lirecter (Plans;

SUBIJaC 1: OAS Attempt w kaller ike Goupersiion of the ‘eaied
States jor its amti-de Gaulle s-cuvities

1, in hiay 196), be atien:pi was coade im Lisboa, For Suygel
by two inembers of the Grganieation de if yoee Secrete CAS) te
enlist the support uf the United States Gives nce at (specifically ine
Coeutral Intelligence Agency, althaugh the agine was never scleeliy
pronounced) in theis operations ageies? de Gaulle. The aslesapet
was made by Captain Jean Kens Soustre asd wéptata Guerin {feuj.
Ceptaia fouetre ideatified biengeif ix ihe 04 organiaatiea as
coerdiastes of eaiornal affairs eerviag sadex winjas Merre Sasyeat,
Soustre sald hat be forcsew the U, 8, role a9 that af coawhos ing
other goverkcnents to cease Suppreséing of: aciivittes ia thatr
reapective countrion, nad later porkaps providing asuustary ox
mmterial guppert. Souetre said be intended ia previda seme
infer mation abeut the activities of ats Ox genination whisk weald ov
of taterest te the U.S, ls aaewer i & Quésilws en hie states
in Portugal, Soustre exaletacd, that he iravelled an verions PRSEPOTLG,
eae ef them dSeing a UL S. PeOSpert, He claimed ia be ducameated
6 4 asivralized sitlgen fram Mactiatgers, wlatad thet he and
U. S. contacte wre could arrange decumeatartan.

2. Lhe CLA cepreseucative told touetre thei de Gaulle wap
the Chief ef Brite of an old and respeciod ably of tas U. X., and that
the U.S, had absolutely ws intentioa of working with say persea or
gtexp againet the duly-commtitnied government of ¥ rence,

3. Av@ilable informaiton fram beth Dees aad wlictal Francs
evarces indicates thar Kaustre te tae mame of a fermer Syonea Brey.
captain whe escaped from, & weeutiaa ois in 4944, Subgeder

te
NoTe
onal
ickground Use
_ D0 Not Reproduce 9187

hate Poona eee eet


1400000

se

3

Paar
bie escape he was eile» ve kuwslwed tea a
Ritempt agalant de ¢ fs hanes
tee Giroade (apa. at ak breace, ve
Brimy CH Hein who hab baa ce
Antoine Argeud, wader weer: ae worked. sn
38 June 1926 at Sevres, Fowace, Guarin ie soi icesci!

ed te awe

BD Soke FFG

mat ie awa a tose

2 PA CSS Le tae

Tel was ty.

4 The tiflormeiioa on the dewmercne of Gie cwa |
ie the OIA representative has been <:
Ambageadar at Lisbon,

ode available io vt

5. The imtelligouce information on < tatemtic
provided by Suuetre will be Uiseentuaced ag is ii 3/6

cer Pederal Bureau of lnvesugativn

Tistribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
:

- FRI

- CU/REA

- O1/
WELLS

- Wk

3

son

me me
'

(AG July is

o

