# 104-10162-10072

## Page 1

104-10162-10072

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

_niz

35-26

ROUTING

UNIT :

EXT

DATE :

8977

29 December 1960

TO

• SHAVE

BAND

PARAMA CITY

DEC

31

00412 60

CONF,

DELL 13

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO:

COP, ADD°/A, DOE 1, Li 3, CC 5, DILL S/E 2

MITT

сл. 5452.5.152

TO

INFO

CITE DIO BELL

PRIORITY HAVE RAND

PRICEITY PACY

6124

0134

JHZIP

REES& A. NAVE 2545 (IN 0126)*

B. NAVE 26,56 (INI 21738) 58

Co FACT 5960 (IN 23303) ***

1. HOS STILL FRESSING POR COMPLETION AMBIDDY-1 PASSPORT BUT PLAN SED

ILM JETE BLACE F'LIGHT FROM JMFIG A JAM. ZABOTH TO ACCOMPANY WITH MR.,

OPS CFFICER FOR JAHIE.

20 TELVE RADIO MEN JMRIE TO BE RETURNED SAME FLIGHT WITH EQUIPMERT.

MR. FREUND TO LOCOMPANI. WILL BE SAFEIOUSDD HOS AREA AND GIVEN FURIER COMMO.

'TRAINING. LEGAT, ENTRANTS MILL BE DISPATCHED SINGIJ ASAP AFTER ARRIVAL.

30 ZAPORE RENATH JHEXE ABCUT FIVE DAIS TO HANDLE A-1 INTBGRATION INTO

INTIL, GROUP AND SELECT YOUR AGENT TYPES BEST QUALIFISD LEGAL REENTEX. PLAN

MITMIM ENTORT JANUARY LEGAL INFIL UNDER GENERAL, COVER STUDENTS RETURNING HOKS

AT END SEMESTER. IEILTRRES MISSION TO ESTABLISE COMMO AND RECEPTION

SUESEQUENT TEAS.

END OF MESSAGE

OFFICER

SICRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

DO NOT LET

RODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

---

## Page 2

ONG &

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

TO

FROM:

CONF:

INFO :

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

30-26

ROUTING

CREDION BELL

PICK 2

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 5452

INFO

0134

WH Corments

"Stated WAVE plarniry send 1-1 to JMRYE on same black flight

as Zaboth.

03

DPOL

(SY PHONE)

c//h/support 141xm

OC/AD (Gayer by phone)

if money

rattanulis

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY. OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

ago

---

