# 104-10186-10319

## Page 1

104-10186-10319

MATION REPORTE

MINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This malore Matens lato matina afrcting the Nattoonl Detram ol loo Coirl Sistes Within the mention Of the Declanet lans. Tile

88. U.SC.

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEN

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

DATE OF

• INFO.

PLACE &

Cuba

REPORI NO.

Policy Guidance of Outlines and

Objectives for Cuban Foreigr

CATE DISTR.

Intelligence Representatives

Issued by the MA Department (IntelNO. PAGES

ligence) of the General Directorate

of Intelligence (Direccion General REFERENCES

de Inteligencia - Del)

1954

CS -511/00716-64

17. July 1964

8 10

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SOURCE.

June 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INTORMATION.

SO'IRCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TEMPATIVE.

A former Cuban IS

officer who served with the Cuban Intelll-

sence Service until April 1964.

readquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a

document which source provided this

Agency concerning the

General Directorate of Intelligence's (Direccion General de

Inteligencia - DGI) MA Department policy guidance of outlines

and objectives for Cuban foreign intelligence representatives.

The MA Department no longer exists as such, having been

divided into two departments:

Illegal Department (Ilegal)

and the National Liberation Department (Liberacion Nacional -

OUTLINES AND OBJECTIVES FOR SECTION NA

1. COLLECTIVE ACTION:

=)

ODECA (Organization of Central American States) and CDC

(Christian Democratic Conference) accords,

aimed at pro-

ducing military attacks against Cuba.

ODECA penetration

in El Salvador.

b)

Agreements adopted in the OlS and JID aimed at producing

armed aggression against Cuba.

Penotiation.

Accords

aimed at the political isolation or at communications

with Cuba based on "inter-American system" agreements.

c)

d)

Nobilizationsand military concentrations in Central

America, on the part of Latin armles.

Latin American military meetings held in Central America.

5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

2

STATE

I DIA

A RAAY

I NAVY

BEPCINCIANT

_ CLICSO E

I&VS

¡Note: Field disribuns insed by "I".)

HINFORMATIONARERORI

TAR

INSA

1 oce

LEBL 2

NPORMATIONAREROR

L$-1505

NO

PROJECT

For Distribution See Attached Pare

(ANNUG - 1)

CS-311/00716-64

118 (FOr AF OSI, NOST. ONLe S:, FBILPLA

TOTALS 1E 3.

WII/ SA 35 (5).

WH 11.

63 t8 005 7 12 0, v (19)

5

3

---

## Page 2

S-F.-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-Ia-

WE/5

NE/BC

NE/R

Flold Dissem

WH/MEXI

WH /MNTY

• NH/ARID

+5-311-00715-64

1

&nserer

1

1

".

Hidgrs Dissem

RH/ COPS

WII/PO/A

WII/PO.B

WH/RO

WH/1

#H1/2

WH/3

WH/4

WH/5

WH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/EOB

WHI/SA/NOB

WIL/SA/R

WIl /SA/Int

Wil/SA/CI

Cl Staff

CI Liaison

CI/REA

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

• EE/NA

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE /PHI/I

FE/JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/V'NC/VN

•FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA 1&S

NE/NA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/I

NE/S/P

NE./G/C& l

NE/Intel

NF/CI

WE/1

WE: /2

WE /3

WE/4

WH/SA/WAVE

5

fred front pass fres

1

1

1

4

found front hond fred

Liaison Dissem

IEN

IE

prad frant

S-1-.-16-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 3

c)

Information concerning possible rupture of diplomatie

or commercial relations with Cuba on the part of

countries still maintaining these relations.

z.

S-F-C-R--T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-2=

CS-311/00716-64

NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEMENT:

a) Organizations fighting for national liberation.

Details about their make-up and influence.

Kays

of struggle. Causes that influence the national

liberation movement. Elements and leaders favoring.

the violent solution.

l:)

Its perspectives.

Position

Guerrilla warfare situatio" toward guerrilla was-

of loftist

forces

fare and insurrection.

Relations retween city

and country forces.

c) Position of the progressive forces toward politiral,

both into and social in hees latern plone incest.

3. • TRAINING CAMPS AND OPERATIONS CASES:

a) Location of training camns.

Avallel le

(.)

Plans for usinx mercenaries.

os sance and places of

ri) Operation lase: located in the Section area.

Materiel in same.

e) Attack plans, locations, and date. Penetration.

1. IU: CENTRAL AMERICAN COMMUNIST PARTIES:

a) Position toward the Il llavana Declaration.

1:) Pusition toward Cuban-Soviet relations.

e) Pointon eona pe cuben ined the national:

d)

osition regarding disagreements in the inter

Lional Communist movement

In the Stno-Soviet case.

In the Allania-Soviet case.

In regard to the : ugoslavla-Sino-Soviet-Altania case.

In regard to PEACE.

In regard to pacific coexistence.

e)

Internal disagreements.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-..--

..=a.

-

---

---

## Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-3-

CS-311/00716-64

() Hour disagreements with ofher leftist forces.

6) Abour relations with bourgeois partles.

h)

About the manner

of fighting officially adopte

or every Communist Party,

1) Mosition of the Communist Parties toward guerrilla

martare in Contral America.

5•: ANNED FORCES:

Irsed Forces organization and materiel (units) of

Arm:, Air Force, and Navy. Bases and armaments.

b)

Budgetary allowances. Official documents (originals

or copies).

c) Balateral

secret agreements with the United States.

Yankee military missions in countries of the area con-

cerned. Yankee strategy developed with these armies.

d) Guerrilla and

antl-guerrilla training of the armies;

units and materiel utilized in this training.

Duration of same.

Special weapons received during

same. Characteristics.

Units participating in the D.C.C.A. Materiel of samo.

Combat readiness.

Transportation and armaments.

1)

Craracter

Forces

ter ane date in the avers hotd cashe Armed

Publications from difterent branches of the Armed

Forces.

F. VENICO'S RELATIONS WITH CUBA:

a) Diplomatic relations.

6) Pressures for rupture with Cula.

) Possicilities of closing the rateway of lexico a.

noming and outroine route for Latin America fro:

Cuba.

7.

REPRESSIVE URGANIZATIONS AND CIA:

a)

Repressive organizations operating In the countries

of

the

area.

•b)

Existing coordination among them. Its headquarters.

leetings.

c) decords adopted jointly against Cuba and the

solidarity movement..

d)

seasures adopted to fight the national liberation

@regents, date and application of same.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311/00716-64

e)

Plans and objectives of the national repressive •

organizations.

() CIA advisers and leaders of Its activities in the

countries concerned.

g)

Plans and objectives of CIA in the zone. Means

developed for obtaining

sane.

National elements operating for CiA.

Counter-

revolutionaries in similar operations.

1)

Penetration of the repressive organizations and

of the CIA net in the zone.

• 1)

Contacts with Interpol. Existing coordination

with

same.

Restrictive measures concerning travel

to Cuba.

Agents.

8. SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA MOVENENT:

a) Its force in the Central American countries.

b)

Possibilities of the movement for solidarity it

Cuba

egard to the growth of Central Anerica

countries.

•.

9.

Repression against the solidarity-with-Cuba move-

ment.

(Adjust them to Congress plans.)

INTERNAL POLITICAL LIFE OF EACH COUNTRY ...U THE INTIMATE

CAUSES OF THE DIFFERENT POLITICAL EVENTS:

a) Relations between the different political forces.

b)

Relations of the leftist forces with the mass

organizations in particular.

c)

agreements, disagreements. parties.

Contradictions

d)

Elections:

degree of mass participation in the

electoral

processes.

•Betaneour son serieson centree emericar

Betancourt, Munoz Marin, etc.,

countries.

• The Government forces,

their relations with the

conomic groups and the l'ankee monopolies. Concret

facts about them.

10. RELATIONS KITH THE UNITED STATES:

a) Diplomatic and economic relations.

in the polley toward Cuba.

Their reflection

b)

Reflection of exterior commerce of the United

States in the relations between Central American

countries.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 6

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311 00716-64

c)

Cultural relations.

Agreements.

Utilization

•of cultural relations for ideological pereiration.

đ)

Peace Corps, actluitles. How they are working,

programs ind

plans.

11. COUSTER-REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS:

a) Delegations in countries handled by the Section.

Their leaders.

b) Propaganda

and military-type activities.

c). Contacts with government and political groups..

1) Participation in the repression of these countries.

blice activities of the counter-revolutionaries.

•) Training camps and recruiting centers in these

countries.

1) Operations bases. Supporting organizations.

I Ai PORTANT POINTS

12. THE CATHOLIC CHURCH:

a) Central American Episcopal Conference:

organisation, purposes..meetings.

b)

Church influence within each government. Chucrete

letails abut elements of croat influence in the

Church.

Disarreements with the government. Accords

or activities coordination.

c)

Relations with the American Emlassy and United

States plans. (Peace Corps, Alliance for

Progress.

d)

Secular and clerical organizations' activities.

13.

2) Relations with the Central American Armed Forces.

Utilication of the Church as the coordinator

between the different armed forces.

REPERCUSSIONS OF THE ECUMENICAL COUNCIL IN CHIRCH

POLICY IN LATTY ANERICA:

Position of the Ecclesiastical Hierarchy in every

one

of the

countries with

regard to discussions

taking place in the Ecumenical Council.

b)

Ecumenical Council repercussions in the Church

publie activity among the different countries.

. c)

Contradictions between the position of the

Ecclesiastical hierarchy of each. country ioward

discussions

taking place in the Council and the

rule performed in relation to the plans of the

Alliance for Progress for each nation.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 7

SECRET

NO FUREIGN DISSEN

CS-311/00716-64

đ)

Contradictlong between the policy resulting from the

Ecumenical Council for Latin America and the

oligarchs' interests, especially landowners.

14.

€)

relations perpen elements of the nationaliat

bourgeonte.

nch country and the church wita

regard Gon

Lopment of the Ecumenical Council

and 1

SLatin America.

Relations botween the Yankee Governmen't and the

ecclesiastical hierarchy of

each country with regard

to development of North American plans in Latin

America.

CLARIFICATION:

This line,

in view of its

importance, should be included as an important point

In the task for ench country.

ALLIANCE FOR PROGRESS:

b)

Application and Program. Loans, works being

developed

and programed, missions and Americar

officials' activities with regard to the Alliance.

"Civic Action"

groups' activities.

El Salvador as the pilot country for the Alliance

for Progress.

ç) Alliance functionaries, data, ways of life.

• Position of the different polltical or social sector:

cach country toward the Alliance for Progress.

15.

FOREIGN POLICY:

a) Officlal relations with the rest of the Central

American countrles,

American, und Ves espectally with Brazil, Nexico,

b) Partielpation in the UNO and OAS.

c) Position

toward the economic, political, and military

Integration of Central America.

16.. OPERATIVE INFORMATION:

1. OPERATIVE SITUATION

a) Way of life: Sectors with mutual affinity.

National psychology.

National minorities, location.

Idioms and dialects.

Population distribution.

Standard ard cost of living.

Rural and urban areas characteristics.

Lodging: Prerequisites.

b)

Immigration and emigration:

Legislation and current treaties.

Igreements concerning visas.

8. 8.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 8

4-g0001

2.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO. FOREIGN DISSEN

c)

d)

e)

{)

CS-321/00716-64

Coasts and borders:

Transport:

Communications:

State

structure:

Special corps of custody.

Coast and rorder corps.

Comterce and smussling at korders

and cousts.

Fishing villages, characterdattes

of fishing fleets,

their regulations

Customs, Its regulationg.

Internal and external means of

commintention; transportation

enterprises.

Characteristics of urban and rural

transportation; national and regional

networks Ratterary. Air de, traffic

on same.

Railroads.

maritime transportation (maritime and

fluviald.

Ports and airports. rares.

National and international' telephone

communications.

Characteristics.

Enterprises.

National or inter-

national cablegram communications:

Characteristics, enterprises. at

communications.

Regularity.

mail characteristics as well as other

countries'.

Radio amateurs.

Pertinent legislation, possitilities

of using them.

Government control over all types of

communications, especially postal and

telephonic.

Technical means used..

"Ether check."

Functioning of Ministrtes and State

organizations.

Repression and intelligence:

Operating organizations: forces,

materiel,

and units.

Chiefs,

officers, and enlisted men.

Organization of net of informants.

Penetration of movements and

political organizations.

Public or secret offices.

Ways and methods of operation.

Budgetary allocations.

Relations

with CIA; national elements operating:

OPERATIVE NAYS:

a) Operational work:

Personal identity documents, official

and private.

Originals.

Official

documents used as identification.

Originals of official letterhead

papers.

National currency:

Denomination.

Foreign currency in circulation.

Exchange houses.

Black market

(quotations). Clothing and footwear

S-E-C-R-E-T

50

• FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 9

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CS-311/00716-64

17.

of normal use, both from national ind

foreign manufacture.

Printing services and stamps.

b) Active mensures and misinformation work:

Location and procurement of official.

and quast state

letterhead.

Particularly of MINREX, Interdor

MInistry,

Principai functionarnes signatures:

Same with American enterprises

operating in the country.

Official documents contatning plans.

studies, negotiations

Private

documents from officinl

functionaries in private (intimate)

or illegal matters.

OPERATION OF MINREX IN EACH COUNTRY. DATA ABOUT ITS NEMBERS

AND DIPLOMATIC CORPS:

a) Data about functionaries. Signatures.

b) foreign service characteristics.

Jfficial and non

¿ficial tasks of functionaries and Diplomatic Coro:

Send all information obtained in diplomatic circles

about the polltical life in the country.

c)

1ilcial and non-official tasks of functionaries an

Iplomatic Corps of international organisms (UNO. OAS)

Performance and data of Diplomatic Corps functionaries

accredited

the country.

18. PRESS:

a) Newspapers and radio stations developing anti-Cuban

campaigns.

b) Newspapers and radio stations favoring Cuba.

19.

c)

Possibility of using newspapers, magazines, radio

stations, and newspapermen.

d) Official publications in the countries loificial

gazette or equivalent).

PRENSA LATINA (Latin Press) :

a)

Utilization of PL in the national press.

b)

Political and

Performance of penalistic deficiencies in the

about importanl

and interesting events in Cuba, on the part of

the PL branch.

d)

Suggestions and ways of utilizing or improving the

job

of the PL, as a whole or in a concrete way.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 10

14-00009

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-9-

CS-311/00715-64

20. THE LABOR MOVEMENT:

a) Possibilitles in the Central American and Carittean

labor movement of the planned New Center of Latin

American Workers.

b)

Available force of friendly labor organizations.

Executives, political leanings of, Its members.

affiliates.

c) Avallable forces of ORIT-penetrated labor

organizations, executives,

affiliates.

data about same,

ORIT effortg

in the different

countries®

a) Plans. for Central American econonie unity.

b) Influence of the price

products

and cattle in

situation

on agricultural

the world

market.

NO

S-E-C-R-F-T

FOREIGN

DISSEY

---

