104-10076-10440

of the myor ia Folbantea fros Jeiuery 3
tris tire the 2 Army cceusiod Fouad i



"e.on 2 ducast 1950, stating: tie".
sxt he cent his wife 20¢0 Nest’

te cent-his vife-a>
sore of yourcelf ext”
to kelp you in Englam." 2
¢ uns depressed over gonbling
1609.09. :

S., Chef of the 513th

MI Group,

t2tea

Inver tian Lintted to priority TT

“g nd Mating of
eoatars sources for eet
+ Eto duty was least |



pe a ee

teers me

3. Nibtes eu a8
Cz personnel. :

6. Col. ROS rerdesis ¢
V Corrs, vheretia Is
Polish Estelltceree price’

ea on officer:
tnd Tru Pojond, edding that th:
Fe ELORORA sa! stationed free

St city fhotied basis, fogging
isus of SLOSOA and: Five
polygreza Interviews by tetuven 1652-end-1953.. Other courée’
Andiexted no record of CIGITA'S ‘being connected with Polish Ietel-

wry etnted in Fronkturt on si
MA voll as a nezher of his

forylond, in 1953 end th
eccase £9 eu, ierakio Petaonclity Anferraticn con:
Selligence. ©

Beste, ©

SEA's Feiss OF Oz!

ir 1960 that ac extly”
= paw L025. :
"2 quisition

“te telephone, books, ity

ched other CIA épt ing their.
8: hei eniy re percexe]
th

plans, ete. lav
inoviedo of ©

‘coatect ut
Carp king coffee, bar:
BENG ‘Learned

of CLA erployces at

a. The folloving i
intelligence Qerary,
ererctiens egainst U.



roodenzt at ¢
Germeny (GIG) rrdio
inBleated thet the
poseibly trittes by ¢:
erpronch Jettess, +
the Committee for
also involved in th

2 haying been written ty
nrcoeto thet the EOD io

ently vas provided by
Scan, who decerted An
The initial telephone
vicvell ta else believed
‘Joc’ ea the, errant officer sas

"ihe le:
USARERR intel?
August 1960
call odvisin;
to hove teen 1n3¢
probably obtatae.
coeded tn nets

by the varront
foe

‘tev ot the Exbesey
y Woedintr) Cs

