# 104-10143-10014

## Page 1

104-10143-10014|.

INTERNAL

USE. ANY

CONFIDENTIAI

HSCA

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

•Wednesday - 13 December

1978

RETURNTO ClA Page 3

Background Use Cmily

Do Not Reproduce

12. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Called Dennis Sharon,

Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, and informed

him that

and Susan Phillips, also of would brief him, Hershey Lilly

the Committee staff, today on

at 2:30 p.mand BYE compartments. We arranged for the briefing

13.

(Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Provided Bill Miller,

Staff Director,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence,

copy of the DDCI's recent speech before the House Select

Committee on Assassinations.

14. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Talked with Len Weiss,

Staff Director, Senate Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on

Energy, Nuclear Proliferation and Federal Services,

and set

up meetings for him next week on 19 December to review an

NFAC report on South Korean nuclear capabilities and to

meet with Don Gregg,

C/PCS/LOC, DDO, on the same subject and

an 18 December briefing on South African nuclear capabilities.

15.

(Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Accompanied barl

Eisenhower, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff,

to a meeting with

, SA/DCI/CI, regarding the

Committee's request for further briefings on counterintelligence.

(See Memorandum for the Record.)

16. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Accompanied Abram

Shulsky, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to

a meeting with

• DDO, and l

I FOIA

Coordinator, in connection with the Select Committee's

upcoming report on international terrorism. Gary Chase,

OLC, also attended.

explained Agency problems with

Freedom of Information Act in both the terrorism field

and broader, and

answered Shulsky's final

on Agency activities

against international

sterror suestions

LYLE L. MILLER

Deputy

Legislative Counsel

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

20260

(6/7)

---

