# 104-10422-10026

## Page 1

110410422-10026)

CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY :

Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO Ugarte

---

## Page 2

3-00,000

ALVARADO Ugarte, Gilberto Nolasco

In the following are cited those portions (including

footnotes) of the SCHWEIKER Report pertaining to Gilberto ALVARADO.

Comments relating to these portions are in roman charachters.

At noon on lovember 25, "D", a Latin American, appeared

at the American Embassy in Merico City.

35 (PH: This incident is

discussed in the Warren Report, pp. 308, 309 Cable From Mexico

Station to CIA Headquarters, 11/25/63.) [Comment: The first cable

in the file announcing ALVARADO's claim iS MEXT-7067 CTN 68291)

26 November 1963 ALVARADO at no time appeared at the Amèrican.

Cy 708223

Embassy some of our own reporting as in extore

He gone DIR: 85089

520475

Seen sue Krantu

6 November 1963 a dissemination to FBleStated ands the White

House, states:

26 November 1965, GilbertO AVARADO A PrO

fessed Castroite:

Nicaraguan

came to the Anerican Embassy

Mexico

and made a statement about Lee OSWALD. Accordinge Lo ALV

RADO's interrogation by Mexican author

LeS

the

called thes Ameri

can embassy on 15 November and "sueceeded:

in speaking

-trigh

JASE LOONS

official with whom he made an appointment for that same

20520

5:30 p.n. near the Hotel Maria Isabel

Two individuals

appeared

for the appointment. According to a note

the Mexico Station

file, signed by the Embassy Security Officer.

ZAi:

STARE CHE

PLAMBE CK.

dated 25 Novenber - these two men were bit and PLABiCK. both

were Embassy security officers] He told Embassy personnel that he

was in the cuban consulate on September 1? and sau Cubans who dis-

= 733

cussed assassination pay OSWALD a sum of money. [Comment:

During

CROSS 9022002

his first meeting with Embassy officials, ALVARADO claimed he had

been at the Cuban Consulate on the 18th of September,

not the 17th

In fact, at no time, did he refer to the date i7 September.

Later

during his

s interrogation in connection with the polygraph examina-

tion on 6 December 1963, ALVARADO revealed he was "unsure of the

day of week allegedly saw OSWALD:

Thinks that it was on Tuesday"

which would have been 17 September. (MEXI-7289 (IN 75588), 7 Decem

ber 1963).] He later repeated his story to the CIA Mexico station

1862E

* Regional Secuity Officé, u.S. Embassy.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

2

Chief. [Comment:: At no time, at least there is no mention in the

files, did ALVARADO repeat his story to the "CIA vexico stacion 2a

Chief", ALVARADO first-told his story, as indicated above,_to tro

officers from the Embassy Security Office. The next-morning, he

met with PLAMBECK from the Embassy-Security-Office, and a-Station

officer During another meeting-that evening (26-November), ALVA-

RADO was interrogated by two officers from the Station. Note

far

the Record, dated 25 November 1963, signed by PLABECK; Memorandum

for Clark ANDERSON, Legal Attache, dated 29 November 1963,

from

Winston M. SCOTT.)l* The CIA and the

Warren

commission

cluded that the story was a fabri

concerned sier on story at the time:

S20 360

"D.

that the story about OSHALD had been fabricated.

-Cab

12.72

citynto crA readquartera 51/30/63.

Itchad also been

de

by the BE that OSWALD was probably in New Orleans on September

Cable from CIA: Headquarterg-to-Mexico:

Station, 11/28763.0 [Comment

There were:

actually two cables, DIR 85258, 27 November 1963 and

DIR 85653, 28 November 1963, which Indicated OSWALD was in New

Orleans on 17 and 19 September 1963,127

Later in that day 126 November 19631,

the Mexico, Station

cabled Headquarters on the details of ite interrogation of DH39

(PN: Cable from Mesico Station to CIA Headquarters o

11/26/63.7

[MEXI-7069 (IN 68376), 26 November 19631 It also reported other

information from a sensitive and reliable source which tended to

confirm "D"' story that OswAld may have been paid by

the Cubang

to assassinate President Kennedy. [Comment: It would appear from

this statement, the authors of the report were referring to MEXI

7069 (IN 68376); however, this cable does not contain any remarks

alluding to information which "rended to confirm D's story"a

This information appears in MEXI-7072 (IN 68406), 26 November 1963,

which contains Ambassador MANN's message to RUSK, MCEONE; and

HOOVER. MANN's statement reads as foltows While we recognize

$34

Lack of established Tellability of Nicaraguan and danger of reaching

28X320

---

## Page 4

73-00000

-3 .

hasty conclusions, we suggest that DORTICOS' preoccupation wich

money angle of interrogation of Silvia DURAN tends to corroborate

to some-extent-authenticity of the Nicaraguan's statement. Thus !

there appears to be astrong-possibility that a down-payment yas

made-to OSWALD in-the Guban-Embassy there,-presumably with-promise

of. a subsequent payment after-assassination." The Ambassador was

reading somewhat mare Into the situation than was the case the

- reference to DORTICOS - the Cuban President - relates to two tele-

phone conversation between DORTICOS and HERVANDEZ, the Cuban Amba-

ssador to Mexicos on 26 November 1963. The first conversacion.

23455 242343 /26

which took place at 0924

was forwarded, in resume, to Headquarters

on: 26 November 1963_(MEXI-2068 IN

the second convoration,

which took place at 1839 was forwarded, in resume, to.

Headquarter:

7097205

on 27 November 1963 (MEXT-7097 IN

Sin the first conversa

Von-DORTICOS asKs (Le) the Federals of that country vanted Senora

DURAX tO say songching, that they had some interest ta, and had

offered some money?

ome money to the American?" To which HERNANDEZ ansHers

that there. was nothing: about money.

In the second conversation,

DORTICOS. is

quoted as

saying:

was referring as to whether they

had threatened her:

her so, that she would make a statement that the

sulate had given money to the man that American."

HERNANDEZ ans-

wered that "nothing.

absolutely was given her" [sicle It would not

appear from a close reading of these two conversations that they

contain information "which tended to confirm 'D's' stoTy o

This report has never been satisfactorily explained, although it

was made available to the Warren Commission Staff. In any event;

these reports certainty must have fueled suspicions of cuban in-

volvement in the assassination.

Based on the evidence it reviewed,

the harren Commission later determined that "D''a story was a fabri

cation.-IComment: This statement appears to be gratitous the

Warren Commission-did not ask about the-ALVARADO case until 21

-April -1964. On-that-date RANKIN-addressed a letter to Richard

-HELMS in which he stated inter-alia "we-are aware, of course,

amin

from previous-reports that the allegations made by ALVARADO were

---

## Page 5

13-00000

thoroughly investigated by Central Intelligence Agency and Federa

- Bureau of Investigation representatives in Mexico City in Haison

--with the responsible Mexican-law enforcement authorities. Refer

+ ence is made to the discussion of these allegations in your memo

randum-dated January 31,1964, at-pages 11--14.

'Upon-review_of.our-complete-file on this matter,_we

find that we lack full documentation of the investigation conducted

of these allegations. It vould be helpful if our records could ba

supplemented by a report from your Agency supplying more details

regarding the invescigation undertaken by your Agency and ochers

cerned Agencies:

into this matter

is matter and your evaluation as to th

2X2.A83

Of: ALVARADO'S

assertions Sin particular, Sie

-would be helpful

report could be submitted by the expert who conducced

the pol

examination which

emphasizes, the specific conclus

Ions

which he

based on, the responses by ALVARADO in answering key. questions or

this matter (letter

to Richard HELMS, DDP;

dated 21 April 196.

from J. Lee RANKIN, General

1 Counsel J The Agency

responded on

June 1964. (Memorandum to J. Lee RANKIN, dated 1

June 1964 rom

Richard HELNS, DDPa Subject Gilberto ALVARADO Usarte 14

The American Ambassador in Mexico tater

ser sent a cabla

[MEXI - 7072 (IN 68406) ;

26 November 19631 to State Department chroug

CIA channels. In that cable he gave his opinion that the Cubang

were involved in the assassination, and recommended certain inves

tigative steps which should be taken in Mexico.

40 INS

Cable from

Mexico Station to CIA Readquarters, 11/26/63.1

By November 27, the Mexico station and CIA Headquarter

270220

were also beginning to question the accuracy of us troy.

cabtes between the Mexico station and Headquarters indicate

possibitity that the story was a fabrication

Nevertheless,

November-28,-Readquarters-cabled-u-reminder to the Merico station

-to "follow all leads' The station was instruoted to continue

vestigating the possibility-of-cuban or sovipt involvement. becaus

Headquarters_had-not excluded.the-possibility.that-other persone

---

## Page 6

13:00000

5

were involved with OSWALD. 11 (IN: - A cable from CIA Readquarter»

to Mexico-station; 11/28/831 {DIR 85655; 28 November 1963)

-Later that day 127 Novembert Headquarters learned that

Mexican-authoritico-planned-to.arrest-sizvia DURAN again and iorned

- the Station that the Mericans must-take responsibility-for the

-0310

rest.-After learning.that thei.sAmbassador was continuing

press for a vigorous investigation into cuban involvement;

Read

quarters also warned the station Chief that the Ambassader was

pushing the case too hard and his proposals could lead to a flop

with the Cubans. LE(ENA cable from CIA Readquarters to

Station, 11/28/63.J (DIR 85655, 28 November 1963)

Piral

Agency concluded that "pie story was a fabrication and

its interest: in him.?

4722

on wovember 30, Director MeCONE met with the Pregide

at 21 a.m. ey

While there was a discussion of the allegation

made by "D" the memorandum

records no action was required on che:

"OSHAID situation"s CEN

255002

Memo andum for the Record by directo

Mecone,

12/2/631

[Comment -

Memorandum not available in che

Mattem

on Dicember NicolE net with the President and sulby

MeCONE! memorandum of the meeting indicates they again discussed

"p"'" story Later that day,

Headquarters cabled the Merico Statio

200202508

and stated that the white house had been told the story was a

was a fabri

cation.

Later that day 12 December], the Mexico Sta-

reported it had reason to doubt its earlier conclusion that "D"

was fabricating. Comment: The authors of the Report give no

source for this statement. Moreover, they leave the reader in the

25-284490179A

air as to-what was -the outcome of further investigation to deter

15427

mine whether-the-earlier-conclusion-that ALAVARDO-was-fabricating

was-an-accurate-conclusion.--The facts are as follows:

On 2 December, Captain WHEELOCKS) saw ALAVARDO during-the

Captain Franklin Anthony WHEELOCK Garcia), chief of the Anst-

Communist Section of the

---

## Page 7

18.00000g

6

On 2 December, Captain WHEBLOC saw ALVARADO during the

afternoon for the first time. In a brief interviews which tasted

only seven minutes, in-the company of two Mexican officials

-ALVARADO reverted to his previous story. He claimed he did seo

OSWALD.and that he-did_call the_Embassy.to report. (Latter state=

ment not supported by Embassy investigation.) ALVARADO went on to

say that he told the Mexicans he was fabricating because he was

"mentally mistreated"; specifically because he was threatened that

he would be hanged by the testicles.

Actually he was not-physically

mistreated. (WHEELOCK) said he was unable to come to any defimte.

conclusion as to ALVARADO, veracity, however, he woula berable to

do so once he returned to Managua and had a chanca to complete the

interrogation.

(MEXI -7023 IN 71702, 2 Decembex: 1963)

Ta on 3 December 1963, Headquarterg colis

the mexico sta

tion chat although Headquarters is confident that ALVARADO S

fabricator and charanis rotraction of his contess tonts raiser ac

has been decided that he should be placed on the

P7Esi5

polygraph.

e Head

quarters asks that

the Station arrange to have ALVARADO released

to CiA custody for several days and as WHEELOCK to remaine in Mex?

conto assist.

CA polygraph operator from the Office of Security-will

arrive on 45 December®

Penelo wilt be incharge of che poly taph

inte

view, but will be assisted by Clark ANDERSON (Legal Attache)

- who

has been selected as an interpreter.

-The : FBI

MIT notHEy ANDERSON

of this. (DIR 86563, 3 December 1963)

• Captain Franklin Anthony-WHEELOCK Garcia, Chief of

the Ant

_ Communist Section of che

arrived in Mexico City on 29 November 1963. WHEELOCK WEnt to

8302

Mexico in response to Mexico Station's request for assistance in

interrogating ALVARADO. For further details see accompanying

chronological summary on Gilberto ALVARADO.

---

## Page 8

13:00000

7=

ECHEVARRIA, the acting minister of gobernacion, agreed

to permit CIA TO "bOrrOW" ALVARADO. The plan was to pick up

-ALVARADO-On 5 December and return him that evening. (MEXI-7229

IN-72877, 3-December 1963) ALVARADO-was picked up as planned-and

underwent preliminary-questioning-on-S-December. The next-day-he

-underwent a polygraph interview.- The results of this interview.

indicated_that_ALVARADQ.was_fabricaling_hisstory=

Interrogation

revealed that he was unsure as to the exact day of the week he alte:

gedly saw OSWALD. He thought it was on a Tuesday which would have

been the ich of sepenber: Men AVARADO was shom a socies ol

photographs during.

the testing, deception patterns became evident

When he was contronted With this he answered that he had the utmost

SEARCHER

confidence in the polygraph and that it must betcorrect. The in

terrogation was concluded with ALVARADO: admitting he must have made

Khonest mistake"

elating the original story in his identi

cation of OSWALD: (MEXI-7289 IN 75588,7 December)

Following, the receipt of the results o

of the anove inter

view with ALVARADO, Headquarters disseminated the results to

the

Federal Bureau of Investigation

2330522

asThe re-Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO

Nicaraguan informant who claimed to have seen

Lee OSWALD receive money' to assassinate Kennedy;

has been concluded. Our Mexico City Station ad-

vises us that ALVARADO admitted he must have::

been mistaken in saying that he saw OSWALD in

the Cuban Embassy.

Also, he was

uncertain of

the date on which he might have

seen someone

like OSWALD

and thought it must have

been on a

which would have made it 17 September

Tuesday Although the final report of the popre

graph interview is not yet available,

the pre

liminary, finding is that ALVARADO evidenced

deception reactions when talking about OSWALD:

"It is

expected that ALVARADO will be de-

ported to Nicaragua on 9 December 1963:

A representative of your Bureau partici

pated in the interrogation of ALVARADO."

(DIR 87667, 7 December 1963)

Except for forwarding to the Warren Commission various

reported material on ALVARADO, the Agency had completed its inves

tigation of the allegation that the Cuban Consulate had given

---

## Page 9

13-00000

8

OSWALD six thousand five hundred dollars to assassinate an un-

named-target.

---

## Page 10

13-00000 -

Page

2001162/3 (4,5) :

The Ambassador's suspicions, cited above, were fueled

tivo days later, on November 25, when Gilberto Nolesco Alvarado-

Ugarte, a twenty-three year old Nicaraguan national Appelted

telephoned the American Embasssy in Mexico City. He claimed

that on 18 September he saw Lee Oswald receive six thousand

five hundred dollars in meeting inside the Cuban Embassy,

Mexico City. (CIA Docs. IN 68291, 11/26/63) MAHATAA$/+*+

CCIA/DOE/MEXI/70896/17/78/8BY

The next morning, November 26, two Embassy officials

interviewed Alvarado. The latter contensed, at noon on 18

he went to the Cuban Consulate to turn passport photographs over

to Azcue, the Cuban Consul. While Alvarado was sitting in the

waiting room, he saw a group of about eight persons enter the

Consulate and go into Azcue's office.

However, according to Alvarado, NZ*R*/WA$/TDK/AM/KZ$

a Cuban man

not known to Alvarado

IPEE/HAT/ A Cuban employee of the Consulate, known to Alvarado

as "Juan-Jose" came out of the office and asked Alvarado for his

photographs. Because he needed to go to a bathroom, Alvarado

asked this man where one was located; he was shown through a door

to a passageway leading to the patio. While standing by the

bathroom door, Alvarad saw a group of three persons talking

on the patio a few feet away.. One man was a tall, thin, red-haired

negro, ... . The third man was dressed in a black sportcoat,

MH24#/ dark gray pants and ad/oper buttoned-up white shirt with

short collar tabs.

He also wore clear eyeglasses. Alvarado

---

## Page 11

13-00000

- 1a -

The CIA reported on November 26 that Alvarado "is a well-

known Nicaraguan underground member WHD/1S/AISB/#/TEIUXAE/ZAY

We

consider his reliability to be questionable although he has not

been

wholly discredited." (CIA DOC. DUT/T#ZÉLYD#/NOL DIR-85089,

11/26/630)

---

## Page 12

13-00000

- 2 -

contended that, following the assassination and after the publi-

cation of Oswald's photograph, he recognized this third man as

Lee Harvey Oswald. (CIA Doc. IN 68376, 11/26/63.)

Pace 2001163/4 (5,0) Alvarado alleged that while ShEkSEA/DA/THE/DATASh

standing by the bathroom door off the passageway leading to

the patio, he observed tHe a tall Cuban WHB/HAH/WEEN/SEA#

ДІ/ПЕЕИФУД/ДЕЗКА/АФЕДЕИ/ІНФ/Д/НА /Й/ANA/HAN/W

#/ Sl/$f/styly join the group for a moment and hand a sum of

American money to the red-haired Negro.* Alvarado reported

that the following exchange then transpired ...

(CIA DOC. YEX111889)! IN 68376, 11/26/63.)

Alvarado alleged ... (Ibid:)

The CIA/$/M$*I*5/&Z4Y/S1A1id Headquarters received a

reported on Alvarado's allegation ...

Page 2001165:

On the morning of November 26 Alvarado was questioned

A1/1HE/RMEFZEAN/INBAS$Y at a site outside the American Embässy

by two Embassy officials, one of whom was a CIA representative;

the other was an Embassy security officer.

As a follow-up to

Alvarado's initial INItIDEALICK interview, ClAYS/MEXID/RIKYl

asked for any traces on Gilberto Alavarado-Ugarte.

IN 68291, 11/26/63.)

Page

2001166:

(CIA DoC.

(Excise entire paragraph.)

In addition, in late November 1963, CIA Headquarters

received two reports, from a highly sensitive and reliable

source, regarding the concern of Cuban President Dorticos

that Silvia Duran, during her interrogation by Mexican authori-

ties, might have been forced to make a statement that the Cuban

Consulate had given money to lee Harvey Oswald. In his reply

to Dorticos, Joaquin Hernandez-Armas, the Cuban Ambassador to

Mexico, stated that there had been no mention of money. (CIA

Does. IN 68326, 11/26/63, and IY 69010, 11/27/63.)

---

## Page 13

13-00000

3-

Page 2001167 (9):

On November 27, #HE/LINS/MEXIED/RITY/STANDA/SANTE

CIA Headquarters received a report of Mann's request that an

FBI representative be dispatched to Mexico City. (CIA Doc.

MEXHATABA IN 68490, 11/27/63. TH/MEXI/LILY/SLANDA/TENDLE

IN Headquarters learned from a second cable on the 27th that

"Mann feels not fully briefed on Oswald/Rubinstein case."

(CIA Doc. MEXI1789Z IN 68542, 11/27/63.) As a result, fle/CIA$

MEX/ED/LILY/CHIEF/DE/SLAKID the recommendation was made that

the FBI dispatch a representative to Mexico City unless the State

Department could convince Mann that he was being briefed fully

by the Legal Attache on all information de*loped. (Ibid.)

with BITCH/DYNAX a representative of the fIAS Counter Intelli-

gence Staff. (CIA DOC. LHD/AAAYI/IAED/FI1@6/DYX*AX Memorandum,

11/27/63.) During the course of their conversation, Papich And

SiMila that "the Ambassador ... • DINEAl The CI Staff repre-

sentative responded, "It might ...

Page

2001168 (10):

Alvarado was undergoing a detailed reinterrogation @brandted/by/

AIN/PEESH IS/AL/A/LIN/SAEHONSEY by United States officials

after being moved to a safe address. (CIA DOC. MEXI1789D IN 68530,

11/27/63.)

Page 2001169 (11) :

Excise entire second paragraph.

Replace with following:

On 27 November Ambassador Mann informed the Department

of the Cuban President's concern over possibility that Duran might

have been forced into making a statement about the passage of

money.

He also noted that Alvarado was being questioned +42H44++81

¿dIEs by an Agency representative BY/XIN/TEST@SENIALÄYES/ZA/MAKÄED

R21Y The Ambassador Mé commented: ...

Page 2001170 (12):

That day CIA representatives in Washington met with

Alexis Johnson of the State Department to discuss Mann's re-

---

## Page 14

13-00000

-

4-

quest for arrests.

Later, in a cable to MEXIED/RITY/STATIO

the field diSASSIN/IHIS/AdIANE, CIA Headquarters noted

that:

Page 2001172 (14):

Furthermore, the same FBI memorandum noted: "Legal

Attache instructed to follow with CIAL/MIXiND/&lith represen-

tatives steps being taken to locate and identify the uniden-

tified Negro and Canadian referred to by Alvarado-Ugarte."

(Ibid.)

Nevertheless, by November 27, the record indicates

that CIA doubted Alvarado's veracity. CIA Headquarters reported

Oswald in New Orleans continuously between fio September 17

IHIRAgK and September 25th. The table report concluded that

the placement of Altatade Oswald in New Orleans was a further

reason not to believe Alvarado's allegation.

THE/MAXIES/CZLY/SALADN/OLAN On 27 November

CIA Headquarters received information that Alvarado's story

ВЕЕІЬФ/ФФ/A/KLHAAA@/S/TYA78N/1/A/M8H

ІВ/ІН/АЙДЕН/NDA&И

Page 2001173 (15) :

ASK/AB/ANESTIDAST/ILIBHAAY

Riky sent on November 27, CIA Headquarters stated that "In the

face of mounting avidence it appears that Alvarado's story is

BEFIREE (CIA DOC. DIR 85616, 11/27/63.)

... On November 28, THE/RINYS/MEXIED/TILY/SLATES

#ABIES CIA Headquarters received a requestiN* that Alvarado

be turned over ...

• It was noted by/tHe/SHAHID that the

"[l]atter point ...

proposed that if/teA$d contact with Alvarado would cease after

IBIIDHIdE his release to the Mexican authorities. (Ibid.)

---

## Page 15

13-00000; :-

- 5 -

Page

"2001174 (16):

In its response to the above message, CIA Headquarters

VEANANATIAIS instructed its representatives that Alvarado was not

to be turned over to the Mexicans pribI/l$ before discussion of

the matter with the FBI. THE/MAXIED/TITY/SEEIRD/WAS/DEARTER/LE

#OLZEY CIA Headquarters was to be notified if the FBX/L$8ÄY

Legal Attache in Mexico City attempted ID/PEXSKAA@/1H8/S424ZD

to tEleAse have Alvarado turned over to the Mexicans.

Page 2001175 (17):

CIA Headquarters subsequently RAbIEd/HE/MXi*/RiY

SLAtiON reported that the FBI ...

*Apparently, the FBI and CIA had differing views regarding the

M$X1+$/414Y Mexican aspects of the assassination investigation.

A BITER/DINEAT memorandum, dated November 29, 1963 reveals that

DYMAL CIA on November, 28 had advised Sam Papich of the FBI that

the CIA was not yet prepared to turn Alvarado over to the Mexicans.

Acting on instructions from Richard Helms, DIN#AT the Agency in-

formed Papich that the CIA considered it the FBI's responsibility

to decide whether Alvarado would be turned over to the Mexicans.

Papich responded that he believed the responsibility was the CIA's.

Papich, after consultation with his superiors, informed B/NeAT his

Agency contact that the FBI had officially decided that Alvarado

would be released to the Mexicans for interrogation and poly-

graphing. DIN#AL CIA later informed Papich that the CIA was imme-

diately complying with the FBI instructions. (CIA DOc. PIÉAI

Memorandum to the Record, 11/29/636/XI/$764/S$f1/FZ7#/Bh/1HD.)

Page 2001176 (18):

Excise first paragraph.

is the best liar I have talked to in my many years and 1 ...

29th, CIA Headquarters received the report that Alvarado had

repeated his original statement...

---

## Page 16

13-00000

- 6 -

During the evening of November 29, a reliable source

met with the

Mexican interrogator. (CIA DOC. MEXI4I7IB8 IN 70860, 11/30/63.)

The source briefed the interrogator on Alvarado's background

and indicated ID/LUS/NEXIED/LLEY/SEALIEN that Alvarado's

reporting had been...

• It Source did indicate, however,

. that

Alvarado

... • (Ibid.)

Page 2001178 (20) :

" Ambassador Mann) accepts fact that

story was a fabrication but continues to

feel Castro may have been behind Kennedy's

assassination"

It was further noted

that Mann based his feelings in part on the

HiEH concerneding possible questioning o

Silvia Duran about Cuban offers of money to

Oswald to carry out the assassination.

(FBI

File 105-82555-879)

Page 2001180 (22):

On December 2, Alvarado $BPK#/WIZHA

EASE/DIETEEI//BAINE/THERE/HEELINE/NITANdS asserted that he had

been +RETK44/IM1D/AdMIIZINgadmitted to his Mexican interrogators

IHAt his story was a fabrication because they had threatened him

with physical harm. This information was received in WAS/tEpOttEd

I$ CIA Headquarters on 2 December 1963. (CIA Doc. IN 71902,

WINN

Page 2001181 (23):

TH@/M$XX/RIY/SALIEN/ENDIA CIA Headquarters received

a message on December 3 noting Mann's cable to the State Department

about Alvarado's retraction of his confession. THE/SKALAD It was

also noted in the message that Mann had recommended tHAt a polygraph

operator be sent to Vicaragua to examine Alvarado.

(CIA Doc.

MEXI

7228 IN 72684, 12/3/63.) CIA Headquarters

Page 2001182 (24):

for his temporary release to LIA/INDESK/IN/TEXTEANS/YETE/ASIES

BM/IAID+HEA/DE/LH/ÄDX/AENZNA/NZS/EZEASE) American authorities.

In audition, 11211/4824474841 an American polygraph

onerator was

---

## Page 17

13-00000.

-7-

being sent to Mexico City on December 4. CZA*K#/Ast$D A

representative of the Legal Attache's office was designated

as the interpreter for the polygraph sessions.* (CIA Doc.

DIR-86563, 12/3/63. FINAILY/CIA/LEARNTIES/BEARER/KNEE

* This same cable noted that Andet$st this representative

was to be used.... The original MEXf40/4144/9KAtISR

request for

Page 2001183 (25):

Y8a4/A//27A/31043z

Alvarado was polygraphed on December 6.

* During the course of his interrogation only the FBI repre-

sentative and the polygraph ... . ..., although not known

to Alvarado, a RIA technician tape-recorded the questions ...

Gonsequent to Alvarado's polygraphing, Andetish the FBI repre-

sentative notified FBI Headquarters

.. •

Page 2001185 (27):

... in Mexico City, the allegations of Gilberto Alvarado-Ugarte,

and S4S@441/48N48tS41ldNs/bELWddN the expressed concern of the

that Silvia Duran might have been forced into making a statement

that officials of the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City passed money

to Oswald.

---

## Page 18

13-00000

2001162

lage 2001165

: Page 2001136

Page 2001137

Page

2001168

Page 2001168

Page

2001169

Line

, Line

16

Line 25

Line

Line

Line 18

Line 23

Line 22

Line

4

Line

8

Line 11

Line

Line

Line

17

21

Linc

4

117237014

This is not a CIA document.

It is

a cable sent by MN fron the Embassy

in Mexico City.

The Agency does not

have a copy in

its files.

(CIA DOC: W4XX/7969 IN 08376, 11/20/63,

FOIA No. 125-52

(CIA GAT/STELYNE DOC.

DIR- 850.82,

11/20/632

FOIA NO.

109-74.5

-

(CIA out Ieletype no. 85089, 11/26/03.)

Wrong document - should be

IN 68376,

11/21/63, FOLA NO.

FOIA No. 125-52,

and DIR-85199,

11/27/63,

136 - 55.

-

(CIA DOC. AXXY7E6B IN 68376, 11/26/63,

FOIA No.

125-52.)

[Ibid.]

wrong document - should be

CIA Doc. IN 68291, 11/20/63, FOIA NO.

124-54.

(MEXI 1182, 11/25/63)

= This is an

Embassy Cable sent from the US Embassy

in Mexico City - it is not a CIA docu-

ment.

FOTA DO. 129-59.9

IN 68328, 11/26/63,

FOIA NO.

-

(CIA DO. 125X510.77

IN 68406, 11/26/63,

FOIN NO.

FOTA DO. 100X012.9*

IN 68496, 11/27/63,

- (CIA DOC. WWXX/DEZ IN 68542, 11/27/63,

FOIA NO. 169-612A.)

"that "the Ambassador there wants nuts"

-

I assume this

was a Freudian slip, it

should read "the imbassador there went

nuts"...

(CIA Doc. MEXI-7093, 11/27/63.). Inas-

much as the preceeding sentence does

not appear in the document cited in foot-

note, assume citation

is inaccurate.

"(CIA DOC. MEXTEEN IN 69127, 11/27/03,

FOIA No.

citation should

also include IN 68376, 11/20/03.

IN 60127 has statement that ALVARADO

identified photograph of ...

Luisa CALDERO

as pretty girl of para 12 ref. (See IN

-

(Ibid.) This footnote refers to IN

69127

11/27/63.

Latter cable states

that ALVARADO identified photograph

of Oscar Concepion MENDOZA as tall

Cuban of para? ref [IN IN 68370).

Nowere in cither cable does it say

that the tall Cuban was sitting at

AZCUE's dosk.

Citations from IN 68576

arc as follows:

Paragraph 5: At noon on 18 Son subject

went to cuban Consulate to turn passport

phnios over to Consul. A2CUr.

Sat in mi-

---

## Page 19

13-00000,

Page

2001184

Line 15

Linc

8

Line 10

Line

15

-

-5 -

(CIA DOC. MYXIIZZES IN 75588, 12/7/63,

FOIA No.

341-713.)

Quote "an honest mistake" taken fron

this cable -

113.

We concluded interrogation with

subj admitting that he must have made

honest mistakc in relating original

story in his identification of OStALD."

(CIA DOC. DIR 87606, 12/7/63, FOIA NO.

351-141.)

CIA Doc. MZXI17289 IN 75588, 12/7/63)

NB: According to DIR- 87667, 12/1/63

ted shit avarado the be deported ex

"it is expec

Nicaragua on 9 December 1963."

IN 75835,

returned home at 8930 on a december."

indicates that Alvarado "will be

IN 75588, 12/7/63, FOIA No. 341-713

DIR- 87667, 12/7/63, FOIA No. 349-717

IN 75835, 12/7/63,

FOIA No.

343-138

45588, 12/1/63, FOTA NO.

also CIA Doc. MEXIA7Z8% IN

341-713.J

---

## Page 20

13-00000р. "

- 2 -

Page 2001169

Line

6

Line

17

Page 2001170: Line

4

Line

22

ting

room and saw group of approx cight

persons enter Consulate and go into AZCUE

office but unknown person was sitting at

AZCUE desk.

Paragraph 9: Subj saw tall Cuban join

group momentarily

and pass Amcrican

currency to nogro.

This unidentified

Cuban anparently came out of AZCUE

office into patio.

Described as tall,

solidly built mulatto, curly hair,

brown suit, red striped tie,

about 37

years old.

Subj never saw this man

after 18 Sep.

There is no place in either cable that

indicates that the person described in

paragraph;5 and paragraph 9 are one and

the same.

Nor is it clear that the per-

son seated at AZCUE's desk was the one

who handed a large amount of currency to

the red-haired negro ...

Rather than making reference to "Ibid"

which would be the preceding cable IN

69127, the writer should have cited IN

68376, 11/26/63.

(CIA Doc. MEXX17997 IN 69010, 11/27/63,

FOlA No.

175-617.

(CIA DOC. VIXZ/7794 IN 69225, 11/27/63,

FOIA No.

174-616д.. •)

Quotation from DIR-85573 not quite ac-

curately done.

"5.

•.. Washington should urgently

consider feasibility of requesting

Mexican authorities to arrest for in-

terrogation:

Eusebio AZCUE; Luisa•

CALDERON and Alfredo MIRARAL.*

Thev may all quicklv be returned to

liavana

in order to eliminate

any

possibility that Mexican Government:

could use them as witnesses.

While I realize enornous difficulty

in giving us instructions, I nevertheless

Fecl obliged to point out

again that time

is of the essence here."

(ibid,)

Statenent not accurately quoted.

and that ve could well create

Flap with Cubans which could have serious

repercussions.

Understand from Mr.

Johnson that he, sent telegram through State

channels to

Ambassador this afternoon attempting to

give him better perspective on this wholc

problen.

(CIA Doc.

DIR-S5469,

11/27/63, FOIA No. 175-620.)

(*Azcue and Mirabal were Cuban intelligence officers assigned to

the Cuban Consulate in Mexico.]

---

