ferent beech

a

SECzZET 1

erases at
“gm EL aca

vuef of Station Lee =
om 89688 of the Delegation lor the ‘Assriesa Caamber of Commerce =.

to faupiogton: 1-5 May 1972. =

ics = fe
hafereace: 18821 of 14 April 1872

2g In tae reference, we listed the members of the celegation
frow Ya American Chanber of © roe of to the anauki
Gf the american Chanboytn Wasbiagtoa ia 1971.. te

that pretty mccs tS same party will attesd this year,”
FreDably with che addition of Fr: Loretta, bead of Dupoat of
Mexico, this yeary er

2. gaia, 1 ecvld Mike to ack you to give them a iunebese beta

wertlag as yuu C14 last eyear. rat ag very successsul afte: wae
tke: oniy criticai comenst 1 had fro! x
xe. ee 7 that ope rae ———— | talking to tee =

i

persdnw Gext to Ghe, rather than there betag general couversation.:
fee Sid not neem to coosider this tuportent but I pases 1f os. to you,
in cone yeu want to consider sose different forum: for. the get-
tosocner.

fe Shaen 7 ib ih town toe tietly for we. to:
“ tetether: 6t.te, y told him. of what -you kad. dose lest.
Fear aad he @ od int ested fs participating. Also,|

WRic (nat during the course of: the. weekcthe peed :of.:
ie Latis America would. discourse on tse siteation ip Bis ors,
At Will be orieated to the commeTcial acd
pect Dut would clearly be of interest to some.of you at Boas
lcaa arrange for some of you to attend.

°

7 Rinks that the afternoon of Tuseday, 2 may,”
will be ffGe for © lusch meeting vith you all. It will be creat.
4€ you can do this again. I shall let you know where be willbe
etaying.

4 Roger T. KINGMAR

~Distrtputior:
3 ~ C/8aD

ie

