# 104-10132-10127

## Page 1

104-10132-10127,

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

INCIDENT REPORT

FROM:

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATE 1 December 1963

TIME 1030

NAME _

John E. Donovan

2009 Belmont Rd. N. Wo

Hashington 9, D. C.

INCIDENT

Telephone call

GRADE N/A

Tole: 332-7717

_ TIME _

0937

OFFICE

N/A

-PLACE Washington, Do Co

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: Donovan called to report that he knew and worked with

Ise Harvey Oswald for a nine month period while fulfilling his military

obligation in the Spring, Sunner and Fall of 1959 Donovan advised he may

possibly be of assistance in providing names and ete. of Oralds Intimate

acquaintances during that period. Subject further advised that he has not

discussed his knowledge of Oswald with the FBI or the Secret Service as of this

time.. Donovan is presently attending Georgetown University while teaching at

Ascension Academy•

He may be contacted any evening after 6:00 P.M. at the

above address. Donovan related that he is a former FBI employee having worked

there from June 1953 to 1956. It Is also noted that advance knowledge of this

call was received from NSO John Moretti and Major A. F. Boland, Agency employees,

who are both members of Capt. John E. Donovan's USMR unit.

ACTION TAKEN:

Contacted Charlie Kane, OS, who requested that this report

be prepared and submitted so that the load may be turned

over to the FBI through official channels..

Docurfant Number

1260-1033

for FOIA Review on

FEB. 1977

ACPURTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PPS), DD/SEC, OR D/S

COPY: EAB/PD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

1 cy C/SRS

FoR™ 1798

CONFIDENTIAL

(361

---

