# 104-10074-10167

## Page 1

1104-0074-0167)

OFFICE

RATE OPENE!

DATE CLOSED

CONFIDENTIAL

(then filled In)

DCD CASE CHRONICLE

ACTIVATION AND CLOSURE

DATE OPENED

-Sun

dATE CLOSED

Cano d 11901

DETROIT

OFFICE

MPLS

PHIL

PITT

OFFICE

LOUIS

DATE CLOSED

iS THACUSE

WASH

GENERAL CLOSURE

INITIATOR

REQUIREMENTS

NUMBER (If Any)

NUMBER (TY any)

HUN 2,6S

Раму Виче

3,54402

X:4489

X3128 (bin)

MONTHLY REVIEW

REMARKS

Closed- 5 Feb 14

0970'

---

## Page 2

14-00000

: Planning of Coup Against the Government of the Bahamas

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION

upport Branch/Operational Support Section

-per 900, Ker Buezdine - oxe. 2308

Case 61401

11 September 1974

03

WH/7/CAR

• ATTN:

3 B 0001 Hos.

03

Attached for your information

is a copy of MIM-00-A(S)-322/

26415-74.

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

0910

---

## Page 3

00000-tL

CONFIDENTIAL

(when filled in)

DE SERTE

NUMBER

10/87 1819|20

22 23 24 25 20

169409

Planning of Coup Against the Government of the Bahamas

INDINDUAL NO

Joseph Merola

Gordon: Cooper and Associates

Opa-Locka, Florida

IGANIZATION NO:

SOURCE (Nome. Title, Organizotion, Address)

INDIVIQUAL NOS

- Same as above

OAEANIGAUION NO

27 28 20 80 31 3233

40/41 42|

PROCESSING

8. COMBINED WITH

ORGANIZATION NO.

REQUESTED FROM

COLLZGTION

INTERVIEW

TRIP REPORT

OTHER DOCUMENT

SUp

50V

DIRECTED TO

OTHER (specity below)

CASE OFFICER

SPRyan

FiELD COMMENTS

A) Re Watts/Bem telecon, 10 September

1974.

3) The meeting took place the morning

of 7 September 1974 in Miami.

Joe Merola

telephoned Matt MacVane at his home on

7 September 1974 to pass on

this informa-

tion. The telecon was unsolicited by

MacVane,

who no longer contacts

Merola

per DCD Headquarters Instructions.

Com

Robinson flew In from Nassau to meet with

Joe Merola and Mike Yamanis (Yamants 1s

apparently from Ft. Lauderdale and 11ke

Merola he has close ties to arns dealers

and mercenarles).

Robinson plans to meet

again with Merola and Yamanis

after com-

plete financial details have been worked

out in Hassau.

Filed:

101900Z

03

TGAOUUARTEHS COMMENTS

Process sheet and report typed in

OSS.

(MIAMI TWX 12584)

Manios

0001

CASE OFFICER

VIMAGINOS

°3

/. RY 007822

EX-Z IMP. DET.

DIVISION/STAFF. DE

097°

3

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

DIRECTORATE OF

EPEHATONS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Bahamas

Planning of Coup Against the

Government of the

Bahamas

REPORT NO.

0O-A(S)•322/26415-74

DATE 11 September 1974

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

Case 61401

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION

OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report is believed to contain information of operational interest and may not be disclosed to

personnel

the Directorate of Operations without the prior permission of the Domestic Collection Division.

SOURCE

U.S. citizen,

convicted arms dealer who maintains close ties

to known underworld figures.

1:

Com (Robinson), a black Bahamian who resides in Nassau, Bahamas,

recently has made foreign enquiries into the possibility of hiring

armed mercenaries

to be used in

an attempt to overthrow the

Government of Prime Minister Lyndon 0. (Pindling).

During

a meeting with non-Bahamians, who have close ties with foreign

arms dealers, that took place outside of the Bahamas Robinson

stated that he represents elements of the Bay Street merchants

of Nassau, and that funds are available for action against the

Bahaman

Government.

According

to Robinson, his group is looking

equipping, and execution

a coup against the Government.

who are in sympathy with his planned course of action, and that

after full details are worked out and the required funds are set

aside, he will

convene another meeting with the foreigners in order

to finalize the appropriate arrangements.

09703

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CUNFIULWNM

DUNFID BEN TRIAL IBISPER SEP TA LITEL

CITE DRO/MIANT 12584

PETORITY DOD /WASHINGTON

ATTRA SUPPORT BRANCHLOSS (UATTS/RYAN)

INTEL REPORT

SOURCES JOSEPH SEROLA, GORDON COOPER AND ASSOCIATES, OPA-LOCKA,

FLORIDA:

FILED A

10190r2

REPOPT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL

COUVTRY

SAHAMAS

SAKAYAS

FIELD NO. XMIY DOA6S 322/26415574

PLANNING OF COUP ABAINST THE COVTRNMENT

OF THE

1.?.

CITIZZY,

CONVICTEC DAMS DEALER UHO MAINTAINS CLOSE TIES

KWYN

'DERWORLD FIGURES.

30'

RECENTLY NAS

HOTLY MAY MAT AGREE MENSHES ESTO TA OSSET

FOREIGN FINITRIES INTO THE POSSIBILITY

ARMED VERCEMARIES TO

ATTEMPT TO OVERTHIAW

TA GO HEYT

OF PRITE MINISTER LYSDOM O.

"SETING

(PINDLING)..

DIRITS

WITH NON-SAHANIS,

n?49

THAT

PLACE

HAVE CLOSE TIES WITH FOREIG'

DEALERO, THAT TOOY

CUT SIDE

T NE.

RAidAlAS ROBINSON

HE PEERCSEITS

FLEMENTE 25 THE BOY STREET YERCHANT?

MASSAU,

AND

THAT

FUNDS ARE

AVAILAPLE

FOR

ACTIO: AGAINIT

FANAVIAY GOVERNMENT.

DORINSON, HIS GRO!P

IF LOOKING

FOR

FOREIGN ASSISTA ICE IN THE PLAWIG,

EXECUTION OF

COMP AGAINST

ThE GOVERNMENT.

HE CHIP THAT

THER"

AFE

MANY BAHAMIANS WHO

ARE IN SYMPATHY WITH MIS PLANNED

1952 OF

ACT10%,

AiD

THeT

AFIO? FILL RETAILS

ARE WORKED OUT

THE

REQUIRED

FINDS ARE

SET

HE

WILL

WITH

THE

FORELJNERS

ARRANGEMENTS.

CODE TO TYIAL CO THE

CONVENF. ANOTHER

END OF REPORT

1÷74.

FIELD COMMENTSE

17)

MEETING

1971

(A)

TOOM.

RE WATTS/DEM TELECOND IN SEPTEMUTY

PLACE THE

MORNING

JOE

MEROLA TELEPHOVSD

MATT

SPTINBEE 1974 ТО РАЗЕ ON ТИIТ

"O%

POLICITED DY

NO LOCAR

CONTACTS

MF 10L4

PER DOU HEADQUANTERS IN TRUCTIONI

NGRY NGON

FLEW IN

FROM NA!! TO MEET KITH JOE MEROLA

LIK

AYATANIS

APPARSATLY F309 FT, LA DERDaLE

NTROLA

HAG

CLOSE

TES TO ARMS DCALLAS AND

pain Nood

TO MEET AGAIN WITH CROLA

514n

LICIAL DETAILS NAVE ASEN

0990"

---

## Page 6

14-00000

1.

BAYAYS, RECENTLY

COR CORLESENT LA CARE SAMANTA QUO RESIDES,

IN HA550

oF

POSSINTLITY

HIRING ARMEO MENCENARIES TO

BE !SED

IN.

AN

THE GOVERNMENT OF PRIME MINISTER LYNDON

ATTEN TOL

OVERTHROW

(PINDLING) .:

DERING

MEETING WITH NON-SAHAMIANS,

VIIO HAVE CLOSE TIES

WITH FOREIGN

ARMS DEALERS THAT TOOK PLACE

OUTSIDE OF THE

BAHAMAS

ROBINSON

STATED THAT HE REPRESEHTS ELEMENTS OF THE BAY STREET MERCHANTS

OF NASSAUS

AND

THAT

FUNDS ARE

AVAILABLE FOR ACTION AGAINST

THE

BANANAN SOVERNMENT

ACCORDING TO POBINSON, HIS

13

GRO!P

LOOKING FOR FORETON ASSISTANCE IN TUE PLANNING BALBRYNA

AND-EXECUTION:OF AP COUP AGAINST THE

GOVERNMENT

SAID THAT

THERE ARE MANY RAKAMIANS UHC

ARE IN SYMPATH! WITH KIS PLANNED

COURSE OF ACTION,

AND THAT AFTER FULL DETAILS ARE WORKED

OuT

ANTING SECURE FORCE NERS IN ORDER TO VALIZE THE NEE

VITH THE FOREIGNERS IN ORDER

AIRPROFRIATE ARRANGEMENTS.

•END OF REPORT

218

FIELD COMNENTS'!

1974-

(A).

RE WATTS/SEN TELECON, 19 SEPTEMBER

B)S THE MEETING TOOK PLACE THE MORNING

OF 7 SEPTEMBER 1974F IN MIAMI®

JOE MEROLA TELEPHONED MATT

MA VANE AT HIS HOMEON 7, SEPTEMBER 1974: TO PASS 0M THIS

INFORMATION.

THE TELECON WAS UNSOLICITED BY

HACVARE"

*HO

NOP LONGER CONTACTS MEROLA PER DOD

HEADOUARTERS INSTRUCTIONS

COM ROBINSON FLEW IN FROM NASSA!! TO MEET

wITH

AND

MIKE

MAMANIS YAMANIS IS APPARENTLY FROM

TO LAIDERD

• LAUDERDALE

AND LIKE FEROLA HE

HAS CLOSE TIES TO ARUS DEALERS AND

MERCENARIEST. POSINSON. PLANS TO MEET

AGAIN WITH YEROLA

AND

*YAMANIS AFTER COMPLETE FINANCIAL DETAILS HAVE BEEN

WORKED OUT IN NASSAU•

A 13

PREPARE

TYPLE COPY

"HAT

F? IMPDET

09704

---

