ai Z| DIS.P AT ¢C re ae

waRKeD Fou WOEXING

[No TROEXING REQUIRED

‘Chief, Special Affairs Staff nc, ae

nro. 2 ORGY quale
4 yt Gav eee oe 2
Chief of Station, JMWAVE - ahh =
82" Operational /TYPIC/AMTRUNK
Project AMTRUNK Operational Review

PRIORITY

ACTION: .Request Headquarters decision on continuation or
termination of Project AMTRUNK.

1. . Attached herewith is an operational review of and progress
report on the AMTRUNK team for the period of 4 through 31 March. .
Station views on the operation are summarized below.

2, The AMTRUNK operation has the following disadvantages or weak-
nesses: . 5

5% é.
Will cooperate Ww ‘only when it is to
is believed that if the operation were to dev:
diminish rather than increase in the advanced
since the need for KUBARK assistance will dec
successes increase. It is believed that.AM would have no
hesitation “selling out" the operation to any one of the major Te-
ugee political groups at any time that he felt it advantageous to
do so. It is believed that, if he is not already doing so, he is
most likely to'collaborate with either the Segundo Frente del Es-
cambray, headed by Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, or the MRP faction headed
by Manuel Ray. In the iieantime AMICE/27 will attempt
own way with the operation. He eves that be js
because of his ZRMETAL connections, and he
£0, bebind, KUBARK's back to. UNK/1

or RaeRe ee if the dperation
loes not progress tq his liking. Since

to AMCAPE/1, "masterminded" tHis operatipn in the flirst Place,
be assumed that the AMTRUNKS |will withhold nothing| from AMTRUNK/1.

o
their advantage. It
lop, control would

stages of the operation,
ease as operational

»

Distribution:
3 - C/SAS w/attchs

‘DATE DISPATCHED
app 8?

RETURN To cia
" Background Use
’ iN Bo Not Reproduce”



.CQNTINUATION OF - tie aan
“DISPATCH

IGpxToH SmanoL AND NOMOER

UFGA - 8381

B. pmhis operation has avery high «ilap-upteniiabe if any ANTRUNK
agents are picked up by ie Oppos on in Cuba, jot only will
KUBARK stand to suffer, but ODACID will be tied directly in to the
Operation, as may also QKFLOWAGE, by whom AMTRUNK/1 is employed,

The latter could prove to be most

Castro's hands.

C. The. security of this operation has certain questionable aspects.
At least six people were told about the operation in varying degrees
prior to the time the team was safehoused. Two of

AMICE/27 and AMICE/14, did not

'S Withholding TRrOPRatioH SYaW UaEhiwn nature from his KUBARK con-
tacts. An undercurrent of friction has recently developed between
AMICE/14 and AMTRUNK/3 which manifested itself in a fistfight on

29 March, This was precipitated by AMTRUNK/3 who called AMICE/14 !
the Cuban term for a homosexual, the ultimate insult to a Cuban. +
This in turn gives rise to the question whether AMICE/14, with a
possible history of homosexual activity (see UFGA-8411), has made

such an approach.to AMTRUNK/3.

D. The commitments made to AMICE/27 or which AMICE/27 claims were
made to him are a matter of concern to the Station. This is an
area over which future misunderstanding or aggravation might easily
develop.

E. The Phase I landing point appears highly risky. It is within
five miles of a cruise missile site radar, and in an area frequently

patrolled by sea. RABEL tens \

rere rrr rroa eacoenr era sg
tions aimed also at penetrating high militar evels for © same

Bireeded Ulver THO Tack GF Control in the MNTRUNE Operation Te Operation,
ey Y of the two “operations crossing or "targetting on the same

individual will be present.

3. %In examining the strengths of the AMTRUNK operation, the AMTRUNK
group as ® whole represents superior agent materiel. f_the
four have been outstanding in training, They appear ee
SMBSP SP Paris welt placed CONEECTE "Sir the inside whom they ex-
pect to be able to call on for assistance. Although they have
been ‘out of ,direct touch with a number of these contacts for periods

ranging up to two years, this is frequently..the case in this type
of operation. The objective of the operation is worthwhile.

and ene advantages and
AY

quarters’ decision is to continue with the operation at this Lime, /
operational plans for Phase I and Phase II will be submitted as |’

formulated. 5

END OF MESSAGE )

5 \L.

53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION,

PAGE NO.
conmiNuED 2.



ay

vy

BBE DLT
ue Poss

Ragoved from Progest

8 Ciageiticass

———

~
4 PROJECT ANTRUNK OPERATIONAL REVIEW

31 March 1963

STATUS REPORT ON: TRAINING AND PROCESSING, 4-31 MARCH.

The AMIRUNK Team, consisting of AMICE/27, AMICE/14, AMTRUNK/2,
and AMTRUNK/3 were safehoused on 4 March 1963 at Safesite #164
on Plantation Key.. Andrew 8, PARMERS, KUROAR instructor from
headquarters, was already at the training site when the team
was brought there by the two case officers, Irving N. PEGGINS
and Hobart J. VANDEBORN. PARMERS remained at’ the safesite
until 16 March during which time he conducted training in
clandestine methods and techniques. This training included
security, cover and compartmentation, clandestine communica-
tions, agent spotting, selection, recruitment and management,
and operational planning and reporting. The training included
group discussion and participation in a series of ‘appropriate
operational situations, several problems, and daily physical
training. During this two:week period, either PEGGINS or
VANDEBORN visited the safesite every day, spending an average
of two or three hours with the group in operational dis-
cussions and processing. During the week of 18 thru 23 March,
both case officers spent a majority of the time with the group,
debriefing them in detail on their operational contacts, workin:
out operational details of their infiltration, and continuing
their training on an informal basis. The week of 25 through
30 March was spent in PM-type training with emphasis on compass
and map reading, including two night problems, and on weapons
familiarization and firing. During the period under dis-
cussion the AMTRUNK group were all LCFLUTTERED, were assessed
by the KUROAR assessment team, were given an initial series

of immunizations, were issued clothing, were processed for
alias documentation, were processed for disguises, and were
further processed on cover and finance problems. ‘The re-
sults of the LCFLUTTER examinations were sent to headquarters
under cover of UFGA-8111, on 13 March 1963. Based on DIR
26430, no further LCFLUTTER is planned at the present time.
Transmitted’ as attachment "A" to this dispatch is PARMERS
report on his training of the AMTRUNK group, transmitted as
attachment "B" are the results of tho assessments of the
AMTRUNK group, and transmitted as attachment "C" is the
training report for the week of 25 March.

AMTRUNK MISSION OBJECTIVE



Ill.

rom power. A secondary and subordinate ~
mission 1s to determine the Climate prevailing among the
populace in Havana for organizing resistance elements capable
of either passive or active sabotage. This secondary mission
is exploratory in nature only, through the first phases of
the project. In order to accomplish the foregoing missions,
the operation has been split into two initial phases, which
will.be compartmented from each other. phase One involves
the_black infiltration of AMTRUNK/2 ands on the north coast
of Havana province. These two individuals plan to go into
Havana _for a period of approximately two weeks, and then
exfiltrate black from the same point at which they infiltrated.
27 and AMICE/14, will consist of
lt: rough the keys area on north coast
of Matanzas. These two individuals will likewise_go into
Havana for a period of several weeks and then exfiltrate black.

These two phases are discussed in detail in following para-

g inf a n/exfiltration r
make initial contacts among certain select high level military
figures in Havana. The following paragraphs discussing these
phases are not designed to be operational plans. Detailed
operational plans for each phase will be forwarded as de-
veloped. °

PHASE I.
AY AMTRUNK Personnel o&

2, -AUTRUNE/2 is a(21)year old Cuban who is mature for his
pon, conc Gedves experienced tn clanlestane opera-
tions. He attended Catholic Social) ipiversity in Havana for
two years, majoring in Social Stud: Prior to Fidel's
takeover A/2 was allied to student elements of the Partido
Autentico which upheld the constitution of 1940, He supported
the revolution against Batista till it became apparent that
Castro had cast his lot for a Communist regime. During his
university years from 1959 to 1961 he was actively engaged
in supporting anti-Castro groups with weapons and materials.
Following the Playa Giron invasioné great many in the Havana
underground were rolled up but A/2 avoided compromise. He
continuedain this york through 1961 and finally left Guba,
1962, Although A/2_does not Sonsider

e has been cooperative throughout

raining. He-is a pensive individual who displays good
judgement . His present attitude ‘towards KUBARK appears to
‘be one of "wait and see", In the meanwhile, he is con-

scientiously applying himself in preparation for his mission.



He 08 ~ 3
z 2.4 ‘3a @2) year old Cuban,in contrast to A/2, ig
On the other hand he is
quite loyal to ‘and his quick wit is appealing to his

fellow team members. He worked under A/2 in the underground
as an action type, principally engaging in sabotage. His
underground work began while he was in secondary school
when in 1958 he ‘supported the revolution against Batista.

In late 1960 he sided with the counter-revolutionaries and
began full time anti-Castro activities. After the crack
down following the Bay of Pigs invasion he avoided detection
and continued to engage in underground activities. Finally
when the, situation became hopeless he left Cuba by air for
Miami if! fugust i962. While A/3 has performed satisfactorily
in his training up to date, his performance falls far short

of the other three members. A/3 feels KUBARK should onl
for this 9) ef etioe snd Shoda aot eeee ‘on and should not inter—

foe feats RC gical ‘of the operation. Fortunately his

role in this operation is comparatively minor and he appears

willing to comply with whatever A/2 decides, Nevertheless,
3 off i

B. ‘TASKS

1." Conduct black infiltration landing at Punta La Jijira
¢ (fas 3785 1) and establish contact with the farm manager at
0° (A/3's father's) farm in the Galery section /(AMS 3885 III,

Coords 993614). of ob

2, Through contacts of A/3 obtain transportation for A/2
to Guanaba or Havana.

3. 1lthough not definite, A/3 may remain at his Aéather's
farm|and train assets in maritime reception and clandestine
communications, Having completed this he would then be ex-
filtrated at Punta Jijira,

4. A/2 will go to Havana and obtain safehouse and operational
support through his contacts.

H 5. A/2 will contact and develop two potential assets with
high level connections within the Rebel Army.

6, A/2 will train support and operational assets in clandes-
tine communications as well as arrange for transportation for
his exfiltration..

7.” Extiltration of A/2 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido
(AMS 8885 II),

a

=
=)
=


INPFIL-EXFIL ‘PLANS

Punta La Jijira is 18 Ma; 963. The infiltrees will make
their way to (A/3's father's) farm one kilometer from the coast
and from theré A/2 will be provided with transportation to go
to Guanabo or Havana.

1. The tentative date ar toss infiltration of A/2 and 3 at
y

2. The exfiltration of A/3 will occur three days after. his
infiltration, This arrangment, as yet, is not definite,

3. The exfiltration of A/2 is tentatively planned for 31
May 1963 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido. A/3 feels
that Puerto Escondido would afford a more secure point for
exfiltration but that a reconnaisance of the area would be
necessary. before final decision is reached. Prearranged
telegram signal would indicate his preference. 7

4. The above dates fall within a favorable moon phase for
maritime operations. In addition the infil-exfil schedule
will allow for an extra margin beyond the 10 days which A/2
considers the minimum acceptable period of time to make his
contacts., :

OPERATIONAL ASSETS WITHIN CUBA

1. Following the successful infiltration of A/2 and 3 the 24
two men will work their way to rm owned jointly vy /3re
father ‘and ate kslonetey from the ‘point
of infiltravronsgprmey—wi 2 contact with sthe manager of

the farm named is (35 to 40)¥ears of age,
is married and‘1a MSWTAFY School education. He has
co's of underground activity. A/3 will depend upon

jto make the following contacts in order to obtain
Yansportation to Guanabo or Havana:

5 ew kilometers away in
o8 (Bie wns ‘a small farm and a
0% \butcher shop)in the ar SO owns a truck. He is

08 [37 to 4Q)years of age, married with six or seven children,
He was jailed for'a brief period in the past for counter-
revolutionary activities.

96 o¢
Dept s s gettin truck
“9g te act] ho ari. next
0 to GY s of ars old, married,

ari.
no Children, wife's name is! He was the(mayor of >
Santa Crug del Norte) in 195! wns a jeep.

a

5s



-5-

y .¢+ Another contact of A/3 i age 21,
single, 8th grade education. rt in
the form of food and safehousing tg underground workers,
in the past. Hisghome address is Corojo #1, Cotorro, Jo
Havana, He‘ owns a (butcher) shop in the (Cotorro)section
of Havana, Subject will be contacted by A/3 ifthe needs
to be safehoused in Havana.

2. The following assets would be contacted by A/2 after
arriving in Havana. They will be contacted in the order
listed, Their function will be to provide safehouses and

vehicles for A/2,
ob GB.
25) years of age, born in Havana,

a.
A/2 Tirst met her when she was a student at the University
of Havana majoring in Social Sciences. Presently she
lives with her aunt in Havana and A/2 has maintained cor-
respondence with her, She has helped previously in
providing.safehousing for the underground. She also has

a car. 06. 08
be age 55) borg in°Havana.
He ves and practices /medicing)in
Havana.o as helped -A/2 in underground activi-

ties previously. He has a brother, two daughters and

a son now residing in the U.S, His daughters live in'
New Jersey and were last seen by A/2 about six months
ago. Subject was a member of the Partido Pueblo Cubano
an anti-Batista group, and was a professor of (medicine]és
at the University,of Havana up until 1961 =
signed. B also a close friend of 0

on

. ggabout (50) born in Cienfuegos, a
ormer (senator (1954) ‘as well as the former head of the

ob (Railroad system in Cuba.] Subject was originally a member

Of the Autentico Party \d claime KUBARK con-
fidante during Castro's takeover. as an apart-
ment and two cars and has previou: d A/2 in under-

ground activities. He has a daughter who works for the,
government but is not sympathetic to the regipe. The 0
husband of this daughter, however, wor! e Guevara]
_A/2 has maiptained correspondence wit

°

a. oe about @5,) born in Havana, single.
jubject is an[Englisi) teacher who runs a small private

_-. OS (tutoring) school in(Englishfén Havana. She was A/2's

‘7 o6(English teacher] and offered support to the underground.

° lives by herself, has an automobile and is a
riend of A/2 and his wife.

B.C RELT,



bo go > : =aGk= of

a
? e. age(23-24J born in Havana, sipgle,
: 4} mo eased. She attended the University
f of Havana and Villanova from(1959 to 1960] She became
4 heir student ‘days in

Havana.odghe has no record of underground work. She
lives in(Guanabo Beach)during the summer, A/2 felt he
might attempt to contact her if she was living at

08 (Guanabo Beach}in order to safehouse A/3 there if necessary

a close ighe of A/2 during

3. The following two operational assets will be contacted by
A/2 after he is safehoused in Havana, Their function will be
to spot Army officers disaffected with the Castro Regime.

oO

a. age (late 30s early 40S) married. Subject
hol ie ran of {Captatajin the Rebel Army but is not
| "presently on active duty.0He was a friend of Castro's

} during the revolution and A/2 claims he,still maintains
some contact with Fidel. He also clai as been

working in a limited fashion against Fid was
original. sociated with the MRR and Monte Cristo
. groups 2 rimary interest has been trying to or-
ganize is Within the Rebel Army against Fidel.
A/2 feels a very discreet individual who has
not been ‘identified as an anti-Castro organi: of
the G-2. A/2 claims to be a close friend of Rd
rusts him completely. ' A/2 saw and talked t 2
ot 962 }prior to his flying out of PBRUMEN as a ¢
°
age arty (40s -)servea in the
0 . ArmyJduring World War II. cording to A/2,
* ob w gx of the th Military District

I Following the disappearance of
o6f BS vemoved from the post and pre-
my pension as well as royalties
perty confiscated by the government. He said
fy) Started Working against Castro within the_MRP
mder Manuel RAY. For a timghe was the (si li tary Job
Secretary of the MRP and became quite involved 1
plotting against Fidel. stated that it was
rumored at the time that as working for the
he was also a KI agent. Eventually
don a G-2 suspect list, but according
s able to evade detection. Subject
has good connections within the Rebel Army and re-
volutionary government. A/2 trusts this individual
and has ‘confidence in him asa potential operational

- no spite of conflicting reports which mention
o S an opportunist.

6]



24

-7-=
7

4°. A/2 may also attempt to contact the following
operational asset if he has an opportunity to make

contact,-
0) 06
age Gate 30s early 40s,] married,
6: fe Partido Pueblo Cubano.” He

fo!
-fought With Raul Castro in the Sierra Cristgbal Area,
Following the Castro takeover he served as(head of Jes
one of the military zones within Havana province.

Eventually phe was given gesser assignments and A/2
thinks es fin INRA) in Oriente Province.

He claims assisted his underground group
during. 1901 by supplying trucks for transporting
weapons and materials.

COVER AND COMMUNICATIONS
1, Cover

A/2 will be issued documentation claiming he is an employee

of a local brewery in Havana. A/3 on the other hand will be
issued documentation as a bus driver within the city of Havana.
Both will, also be issued drivers licenses and additional

items such as immunization certificates, Cuban receipts, etc.
The two men will also be outfitted with disguises.

2, Communications

Primary communications will be established through an SW
system. Both men will be given SW instruction and will be
issued accommodation addresses in Miami. This instruction
and these addresses in turn will be passed on to the recruited
assets in PBRUMEN for use as the operation develops. Pre-
arranged signals will also be devised for use by the team via
telegram to indicate their progress and confirm their place
and time of exfiltration. Both members will also be given an
OWL system to provide them with quick instructions in case

of an emergency.

OPERATIONAL AND SECURITY EVALUATION

1. The operational aspects of Phase I portrays a mission which
has considerable potential but'also considerable risk, The
area of infiltration is within five miles of a cruise missile
site and its accompanying radar. .In addition boat patrols are
Known to work this portion of the coast at frequent intervals.
Once-jnfiltrated the team will not have to travel far before
heir first contact. However, A/3 is leary of staying at his
‘ther's farm)for any length of time and he does not want his

2% Gather)to know of his presence in Cuba. For this reason the
“farm will not be able to serve as a safehouse. A/2 plans on
leaving the farm the same day pe lands. This presents the

problem of what to do withia/3"° On approach is to take A/3



td Guanabo or Havana and safehouse him. This, however, may
jeopardize the operation because A/3 lacks the maturity and
Patience necessary to stay put while A/2 goes about his busi-
ness. “He may take advantage of his visit to Havana to under-
take a clandestine assignment on his own, When A/2 and 3
step ashore in Cuba, control will vanish, Fortunately A/2
has a sufficient resource of judgement to go about his busi-
ness competently, Unfortunately A/3 gives no such indication,
For this reason an attempt will be made to steer A/3 towards
developing assets around his(father's farmJwith maritime
reception capabilities. zy

2, A/2, on the other hand, appears to have a sufficient -numbe:
of supporting assets t le f, fety while in Havana
However, he has not. se: lan for over a year, In
addition both men are presently o f the Cuban Army
organization and this position may dampen their effectiveness
in recruiting within the Army, ;Station reports a leon-
flict with A/2's evaluation ofthis man. While there-i—no

evidence to verify that is pro-regime, theze hag been
a recent report on him /3 which citine, i an
opportunist who might work for thi bidders 5
rebuttal to these remarks is oat ee Ss assisted him in
the past’ and when the chips were dowi Hé-continued to aid him
in his underground activities.o6This still leaves a question
mark next to the worth of nich unfortunately can only
be resolved by direct contact between him and A/2. There are
other security implications which should be discussed in this
evaluation. Both A/2 and 4/3 cannot be considered truly se-
curity conscious, While safehoused A/2 wrote a letter to a
contact in Miami which was to be transmitted by his case
officer. The letter gave an indication that A/2 was seeking
contacts in Havana and conveyed the impression that a trip
was in thedfing. A/2 has written several other letters

not seen by his C Os which might have given the same impres-
a/zon the other hand

gur_ friends in New Yor!

eine sat

hat he was
on an operation that would take

ning
them

first Miami and th to Cuba. Once there they would go
to his|father's farm) a \d_be: © make contacts. A/3 also
stated at a man nained ould be one of their con-

tacts. This loose talk with A/3's attitude that
KUBARK exists only to serve him makes him a marginal candi-
date for this operation. However, if A/3 is exfiltrated

‘three -days after his entry into Cuba, the operation will
-gain,his usefulness and eliminate some of the risk he

presents.



Iv.

-2-
3.|. ‘The above evaluation stresses the operational and security
weeknesses in this operation. In contrast to these weaknesses
are the positive considerations of this mission. A/2 has the
intelligence, competence, and confidence to approach and re-
cruit two assets with the potential for developing anti-regime
operations. at a high level within the Cuban Army. The results
which ‘these anti-regime activities can accomplish is a matter
for conjecture but it appears that they carry potential.
Nevertheless, if the operation continues, it will bear close
watching in terms of security and control for these factors
will jeopardize the operation as well as KUBARK's position

if not properly contained.

PHASE II
A. AMTRUNK PERSONNEL
SESRUNK PERSONNEL

1
year o. G y e family.

His father, now deceased, was a prominent individual in law
and politics and was at one time a senator, A/27 himself
graduated from law school in Habana and was a practising
lawyer. In 1959 he became legal adviser to Camilio Cienfuegos.
Following the disappearance of Cienfuegos in October 1959,
4/27 began to engage in counter-revolutionary activities,

in May 1961, at which time he held the position of Under—
Secretary of Public Works, he felt that his underground
activities. had come to the attention of the government and

he took refuge along with his wife in the Venezuelan Embassy.
He was given safe conduct from the Embassy to PBPRIME in late
1961, Subject is intelligent, articulate, and highly moti-
vated. He-has some experience in counter—revolutionary
activities and has demonstrated an excellent capacity for
learning clandestine techniques. He has a very large ego,

and aristocratic pride, is very sensitive, and is quick to
take offense. s_frank to that h

K that be is not ¢ k

a K e
regime in his own country and that he will accept KUBARK aid
and advice but will not accept KUBARK control. His attitude
although not hostile, is frequently critical, and he pre-
sents a difficult handling problem.

2. - AMICE/14 is @ 26 year old Cuban citizen who is also a
Yaw graduate of the University of Havana, He has been in-
‘volved much of his adult life in clandestine activities.
Subject arrived by small boat in June 1961 in PBPRIME,He
is highly motivated, is intelligent and objective, and has
,a very highly developed security consciousness, developed

from his counter-revolutionary experiences, From January

knowledge of .the northern:

to July 1961 he made

iltration/exfiltration
and has an excellent
area, He is easy to work

19-687



- 10

with and has evidenced “hittle of the hostilities or anti-
KUBARK feelings shown by AMICE/27

Oo
+ ANTRUNK/4, Subject is a 49 ]year old fisherman from the
o08(Garacnen area who took refugein PBPRIME in February 1963,
He had previously assisted A/14 in infils and exfils and will
be used as a maritime guide.

B. TASKS

1. Make preliminary black maritime infiltration by small
boat onto Cinco Leguas Key (AMS Map 4085 III) to contact
individuals who formerly assisted AMICE/14 in infil-exfil
‘operations.

2. . Through contacts on Cinco Leguas Key, organize a ratline
into the mainland, including making arrangements for trans—
portation into Havana. ; ‘

3. Through the mechanism established above, move to Havana
and obtain safehousing and operational support.

4. Make all necessary arrangements for subsequent exfil-
tration and future infiltrations.

5. Approach and recfuit two key individuals with contacts
among important military figures,

6.. Establish internal and external communications,
7.. Exfiltrate from Phase II,
C, INFIL-EXFIL PLANS

It 4 x: ICE/27, AMICE/14,

and nto the Cinco Leguas Keys area on or about

22 April, Subjects will take a small boat with silent motor
ete area and remain in the area for approximately

three days, during which time they will remain black, keep

the boat hidden in the mangroves, and contact individuals

known to them on Cinco Leguas. They will make arrangements

with contacts at that point to re-activate contacts of AMICE/14

on the mainland at Casualidad (Map 4085 III, Grid Square 1747)

and contacts in the town of Marti and Cardenas. iLL b
yo out 2 time with these contacts Pecccamences
and AMICE/14 Will again go into Cince Leguas and expect to be
‘passed on through these contacts to Havana, Subjects will
exfiltrate by small boat on or about 26 April and will be met

by the parent craft in open water to the north of Cayo Cruz
del Padre (Map sheet 4085 Iv). ‘
'



il -

OPERATIONAL ASSETS WITHIN CUBA

1. Cayo Cinco Leguas. ‘This key is used for production of
charcoal and salt. Residents are reported solidly anti-

Communist.’ A/14 has two contacts here that he used revjously
for infils and exfils. One is."Tango" 06,08
Tango is a brother of =307338))""

‘whom-A/14 wanted to usé aS a guide in this operation, but who
was already telat ina Ge elsewhere\ The other contact is
8:

the owner of the(Salina (salt drying beds)} (4/14 has not yet
been able to recall this individual's name©’

2.’ Finca Casualidad. This area is directly south of Cinco

Legu. on the mainland. Key contacts
{not related to Tango, above) an
Of whom have. small farms in the area.
3. Town of Marti. ‘Contact here igs"Pe: Age", LNU. Subject is

about 50:years old, is employed by(INRA}*‘and has a jeep which
was used previously by A/14 for operational purposes.

& City of Cardenas. Contact is owner of the
of Gate

o8 (es public works)i: . Subject has a son

Marino restaurant Subject ‘tend of A/14
who assisted_him previously with transportation for maritime
receptions jould be used to take A/14 and A/27 to
Havana. Ow . ‘

of Matanzas, A-14 has a friend here named b
ho also assigted A/14 in underground activities in
7—Bubject is(60/%years old, married, and is.a form:
i ‘Gartosy ow
in New York City will be contacted for transpor-
tation to Havana. Owns @-car.

6. Varadero, “Fifo"| Pins a car and was formerly a
close friend of A/14. Subject was formerly active in the

undergroqund*4nd tha by A/14 in the event he could
©: fbr obtaining i
er Of the communis

but is reported to be anti=communist himselT.

7. Havana 06
a. Ce ye rene Subject is single and lives

_ with her mother. is friend of AMICE/27 (possibly mis-

.| , tress) an use kéeper. Subject is _&

+ j) sister of 2 (Comnandante inthe Navy ]
‘who, according to > was at one ‘time(chier of naval

& operations) His present assignment or location is
unknown.



an
support, a car,

S uncle o:

Is a close friend of A714
Can be used for operational

fhe sershonbeksofeoe Was formerly a Lt.
in Oriente under but no longer in army.
A/14 believes he’ mstrator of some type of
industry in Havana,

a ee) ee

and le keeper. She-is single, lives

alone except for ten cats. Does not have a car, Was
formerly a teacher but now has a pension and does not work.

da.

Subject is a relative of

A/27 and can be called on for ops support or safehousing.
Subject has a car, is married, no children, is in his

sixties.
“ :
fe. To be recruited by “A/14 as his prin-

VP oa} ‘ana. Subje. ‘14 previously worked
together in the underground.0 as in the Sierra
with Castro and also fought i! y. He resigned from

the army in February. 1959, although he has maintained many
contacts within the army. Was one time active in ia “{
G 5

tico Martiano and was-a friend of
ho was shot by Castro in Pinar d 3
abject came to PBPRIME in April 1961 with A/14 to obtain

+
i arms and remained there 10 days, infiltrating back into

Cuba without his absence having been known to the authori-
ties. “Was responsible for safehousekeepin cA
for nearly one month when authorities were searching for
him. Will be used for intel collection and spotting on
defectable army officers. He is also known to A/27, but
not well, A/14 was last in touch vite by letter
about two months ago.

Diaz. Subject to be recruited by A/27
uld be used for operational in-

font
spotting among disaffected, ficers.
ntirely compartmented fro Guin
ndante, now managing a lar| farm

of Havana. He is known to A/27 and A/14,
lieve he can be contacted safely. He is
anti-Communist and is one of the group of Camilo Cienfuegos
officers contacted by A/27 in early 1961 to join in an
overthrow of.the government.

Lai an CUBELM Titel - 1 pter-

SECRET

telligence an

both of whom bj



eee ic)

i 8. Target personalities who are suspected of being dis-
1 affected and on whom 4/27 and A/14 will attempt to gather
information in Havana are as follows:

4
1. Comandante "Macho" Parra
2. Cdte. Oscar Guerra
. 3. " Jose Pinares
4. Capt. FNU Lawton
5. " Manuel Avila
6. Cmdte. Rene de los Santos
7. Ld Pedro Miret
8.. Capt. Juan Nuiry

9. Cmdte, Rafael Suarez More

10. Capt. ‘Fernando Fernandez Superville
11. Capt. FNU Guerra Matos

12, Capt. Sandy Olivares

13

"

Jose Fernandez Alvarez

keg, through JMWAVE RI and
In a majority of cases

ere appears to dence to indicate the subjects
may be disaffected. In the case of Jose Pinares however,
it would appear that he is completely loyal to the regime.
This information was passed on to A/27 and A/14. RI silos
were negative. on Avila and Lawton,

E. COVER AND COMMUNICATIONS
SQVER AND COMMUNICATIONS
$MICE/27 and AMICE/14 will live black during their entire stay
in Cuba, They will be equipped with alias documentation ang
pith disguises. Both of them have previously lived in the
Havana area and know thé city well. They will be trained in
Secret Writing (SW) and will plan to train at least two ond
‘Possible three agents in Havana in SW, prior to their own
\exfiltration, In addition, it is planned to train A/27 end
~A(l4 in OWL. At the time of infiltration, exfiltrecion plans
will have been laid on with the agents. In the event thas a
change in time or location of exfiltration becomes necessary,
in OnVL message could be sent to the agents. Any urgent snd
amnediate message which might have to be sent by the agents
during their short stay in Havana would be on a prearranged
aeomoceds System by commercial telegram. Such a system will
be Worked out to cover several possible contingencies yar
ternal communications of whatever net is organized by A/27
and A/14 will be arranged by courier, cut-out, live snd dead
drops, © .

hae OPERATIONAL AND SECURITY EVALUATION
7

l. LCFLUITER examinations n_both AMICE/27 and AMICE/14
ou; s the Opinion of bo

wease o: cers and the training personnel who have been in

close contact with these individuals that both agents are



highly motivated and strongly anti-communist, this point will
remain‘ basically unresolved since it is almost certain that

A/27 would refuse a second LCFLUTTER examination if asked
It is,

Q
LUITER and subsequently, Ihe nature, seriousness,
possible consequences o S are as yet not clear.

Although he says that he did not give any details
of the operation, he does admit to having discussed it in
very general terms with two individuals whom he named at

the’ time of the LCFLUITER test. One of these \adedbend,
poh Gutiemmspilisnege and one a. friend of Vargas Gone
Thee seme Vedprerin ba eves 72 Apert

3,° AMICE/27 has not seen his contacts in the army for the
past two years, Although it is difficult-to assess how well
he knows various persons in the military about whom he speaks,
it is the case officer's opinion that few of these contacts
might be considered really close, .AMICE/14 has been out of
direct touch with his operational contacts since July 1961.

4, The infiltration into Cayo Cinco Leguas is dependent
upon having a good guide in the boat. At this time, Phase
II is awaiting the recruitment of AMTRUNK/4 as guide.

5. Control over AMICE/27 and AMICE/14 is basically lacking.
Some control can be exerted through the implied threat of
withholding support to the operation. Control however will
vemain tenuous at best and A/27 will continue to be a dif-
ficult handling problem,

6. .On the positive side of the ledger is the calibre of the
agents, both of whom are well educated, astute, and highly
motivated,
hpaljuerer ticularly 4/14 who has made a number of p:
clandestine entries and exits and has many operational con-
tacts. To date both have performed in a superior manner in
training.

FUTURE PLANS

Duringthe week of 1 through 6 April, the team will receive
maritime instruction, During the week 8 through 13 April,
they will receive SW training, possibly OWVL training, dis-
guise training, dnd further operational planning sessions.

COMMLTMENTS

the following principle, which tte
rom ODYOKE, was enunciated during his

RE will recognize a new Cuban



democratic principles; ODYOKE does not desire to impose a
government of its own choice upon Cuba". A/27 has made a
) big point of discussing this "commitment". It is apparent
\)" that he intensely dislikes (or fears?) Batista and his
5 \ ty {followers. It is also apparent that in his mind he links

, ‘Batista and KUBARK, and fears that KUBARK would back Batis-
tianos in a post-Castro government.

gil government which is anti-Communist and which operates on ~

art are very sensitive.

3. Another commitment which AMICE/27 claim$S to have discussed
in ZRMETAL is that ODYOKE should give "official recognition"

\ to members of .a conspiracy which culminates in a successful

| coup d'etat, following the coup, in order that. these individual:
! will not be treated as political criminals by a future regime,

i. This means recognition of an individual's participation in

j-the conspiracy, not a promise of recognition of a specific
government formed by the conspirators themselves.

4, ‘Discussion of the above "commitments" has been pressed
several times by A/27, PEGGINS has not agreed to any of these
commitments with A/27, However, A/27 feels that the com-

[ itments have already been made by ODYOKE in ZRMETAL. PEGGINS
has told A/27 that he will report these "commitments" back
to ODYOKE to determine if, in fact, ODYOKE considers them as
commitments.

:

(5, The, only.commitment made by JMVAVE through PEGGINS has

| been that if any of the AMTRUNK group were killed or captured
While on the mission thelr fomties—in-PBPRIME Wous doc
| assisted for a "reasonable amount of time" financia

FPEGGINS declined to state what that TRS TOUTE BECP OW much
| financial assistance would be involved.

i

6. One further negative commitment has been discussed between

\ | PEGGINS and A/27, PEGGINS has stated to A/27 that no com-
mitment will be made at this time to support any internal

\y \ ‘group organized by the AMTRUNKS with weapons or explosives

Wy (land that this extends specifically to no promise to support

ui actiye sabotage with demolitions. 2

