# 104-10167-10234

## Page 1

104-10167-102344

F:

11091

Be ent

SA:A11*

ricover f. lander

Deput: Thief, Latin Aeri, l'iri ion

Rinister: Counsellor Statrit

on

the

As-assinarion of President Fenned;

21-9

22950 MIN 410911

h. Yeu toil laily

Yes's Article, dated

20 S00er 1077

Eeference:

genmoollar 14Cl of the

215

tonnuaist Parry of tuba monkers assigned in

Tureseen the regular mello nesting if car

The a said, arms sher chills, that eran ni

such as fly Mid? lad and oilers had been

assassination of Presidon! on F. Kenneds.

The at did po

farther

clalarite.

?.

lat in Aberich Pirision believes it the hasier

the

fil

the lion leak taily dese

on?!!

an

article chich arress i

September 1i

This artist

which is attached, quoted Maritza. Cohenz i:

"aying shed iond.

BOSCH.

Franl

SURGIS,

l'edro

i!:

hrothers ind

Ire Harre:

050.11.19 formed

the i ch

an origination squil

li.

1al las. 1.

ascescinade Presidied lennels.

i re

infromi! ion

in denor piles to subso seing that oi

MANIAC: NOTICI

SENSEDITS INTELLISANCE

SINIRCES AD METHE

INVOLVED!

SECRET

E2 INDET

C1 RY. 012-

RETUANTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4/8R

rensentens

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SICRET

16-5

3.

There have bees various articles in the

past allegin!

that His. Loki!?

has a CIl

There is no official

Ns. LORENZ,

10r

is there

any infornation

file on

indicating that

has an agent or employee

sac

of this Agency.

He have asked Station!

to obtain nore

le cra pree hemoranda soner no some specter dener.

He will prepare remoranda

for the FBI, the Inspector General,

and the Office of the Legislatire Counsel concerning this case

and include any additional iniornation ohtained by our Station

The nemorandu. io the OLC will be for passage to

the louse select Conmittee on Assassinations.

George }. Lauder

• Attachaent: als

DDO/C/ LA/COG/CIOS

His (1325) (29 Sept 77)

Distribution:

OriE &1 .

Addressee

1 - LA/ 50G/Chrone

2

- C/LAD

- Originator

• Ie Staff (Scott Breckinridge)

1. 11old

11-5

4/8R

---

