# 104-10273-10313

## Page 1

1104-10273-10313 e

1

EP'E . •

vlat

NURSER

O02018

0351 D01018

NEW DOCUNENT RECORR

Instructions for Divisions end Stolls:

1. Fill in ond Sign on line 11.

2. Use back of for for ony additional commenis.

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION /Circle il eppropriatel 130 CHARACTERSI

DAY

7

MONTH

FORM

2.

TCH

LETTER

AIRCRAM

WitH ATTACHMENTS: - SANiTizeRsioN

11

Jur

FROM/ORIGINATOR IJ0 CHARACTERSI

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERSI

3

Jerry G. BROwn

me Seconiry Analysis bRoug

Stiet, Securit ANANSi:

210u0

REFERRED

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

4

5

7

YEAR

CLASS

S

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

GrAND PATiCK Hemming, SF #429-229

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

A

DATE

OF

REVIEW

DAY

14

z0

MONTH

YEAR

86

JAN84

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)-

DEFER DECISION TO I SO CHARACTERS: COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

E. Sustain initial denial in

_ F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FPLE REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

9

SOIA

04 Đ5 B6 07C

B SUPA

11 K1

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

E.0. 12356

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(x) (1)

(3)(1)

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

10

5.

Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

7.

Location

8. Location of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9.

Name fog'F

CIA

employee S

10.

File number S

11.

Pseudonym

12.

Cryptonym

13.

Internal organizational data

14.

Name

of an FBI agent

15.

FBI file number

He need to

coord on refer

to 05. Do

16. Privacy of other individual

17.

Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

level in tote

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(3) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (c) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

S

REMARKS IIF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVEI (40 CHARACTERS)

11

-P7

(A)

SIGNATURE/OFFICE OF DO COMPONENTREWEMM^OFF+ES

REMARKS (160 CHARACTERS)

See notes an t400643

11 HSCA Box, #19 SANiTiZeR. SecuRiTy fir GUAD P. Henni

DUP SEE DOC NO, 977,978,4234

This Form es Unclasseled Unless The Classification is Chardo

end The Informarion below is complered.

14 ATT: IN 944357

CL BY

DECI DADA

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CILY

LI COME

POUTING AMO ISCORD SHEST

SECRET

5: 200-004191

HENNING, Gerald Patrick

ferry 6.

Brotin

P. pui! Chi

Security Analysis Group

NO.

1! 3.46

3:

¿..

5.

429 229

4400

11 June 1976

JATE

RECEIVED

MORMAPO:D

OFFICER'S

iNITIALS

COMMENTS (number sach commer, 45 1990 inge wham

to whom.

1g 26: 210 (3 act 4, 500

1: 6/219

Fenter i the - bit.

Bine tole

PLISAG

16121126

15.

11.

12.

із.

SECRET

, NON-REC DOC

CONFIDENTIAL O

BERNAL

Us: thir

CONSUETE ON EARN 5, 12358

CL REVIEW BY 0109294

O DECL O DOWNGR TO -

REVW ON - DADR

X

WHC:1351730

FULL TEXT COPY. - DU NUT RELEASE

---

## Page 3

13-00000

11 June 1976

MENORANDUN FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

SF: 129 229

Gerald

Patrick

SF#429

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENNING.

was referred to the writer,

who is holding the HENNING

contacted the writer,

is the iction officer for a cable from the

advised that he

_Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

I was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald. Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

and JMNAVE

to the below-mentioned

copy of the report coming in from thel

ins in treenprovide the station ath a

Station:

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

dated & June 1976),

which is attached.

In substance, the cable reflects that

guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided thei

a written report, and a detailed bricfing,

ate a preten let or tre oreans fren

to assassinate

President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

"Colle" LeMeni Sace tehe cuitenada

• one of the major conspirators,

of an attack

upon his,

ZIMERI's, life. ZINERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

in the assassination plot

and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMIYG. The HENNING brothers

asgisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms

among other things;

vere flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

The report also

claims that ZINERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and Now Orleans.

E2 IMPDET

C1. BY 00509:

---

## Page 4

13-00000

NOTI:: The

_station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

from

. on 8 june.

said thai he

had been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatemalan governnent for the past six months or

50.

He clained that two Americans were involved

service

in Miami.

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about

230 pounds.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b.

In the event ZIMERI is not in

the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatomala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

tial treatment by U. S. authorities

permit him to carry

firearms, as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?.

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

On 19 June 1976

'advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZINERI or Robert HEMMING.

activity,

alleged

employnent, it is apparent that perald patrick HelpiNG

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, Who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

who is a notorions mercenary and soldier of fortune and wo

as

of day 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private

investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miani, Florida.

2

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Gorald Patrick HEMMING is well known

to this Agins;,

the Office of Security Niami Field Office, and

hind claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his servis

to the Druy Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMINC

is a long-time cohurt of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SFL353 459),

of Watergate notoriety

who also has"

long-time record of falsely claiming Agency

the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thercafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he naned the International

Anti-Conmunist Brigade:

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) wis

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum,

to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 Jun?

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNt, i;

and an extract tron a book published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

in America--The CIA and the

Assassination of John F.

Is a diatrine against the Agency

attempts to link the agency

Kith the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GAKRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetrition

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and

that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting that he did

so after Gerald Patrick

HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

Digyty Chie:

Sccurity Analysis Group

Atts

---

## Page 6

13-00000

fi direct

1....-.-

-!!

not canes 2 ear

SECRET

Send : 20270

STAFF P

#X 0854080 99190

SHE 15 670-10.8E0

BESENCE!

Fil f

T 931j95

911768

PAGE D1

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

STAFF

1:

8÷4357

SEC!

CITE

5322207 JUN 76

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

REFS: f.

B .

(IN 937052)

(NOT SENT

(IN 890367).

1.

PASSED (STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND NADE

ERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOHLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

NREF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND

; NATIONAL

¡BERATION MOVEMENT MLND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

IM ER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST 75:

N PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

UT iS SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LISE

ATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

EPORT AND

CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

EGALE PATRICK HEMMING INO STATION TRACESS, WERE ALSO

IVOLVED WITH ZINERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISYED HIM IN

COUTRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN 9O GUATEMALA

-LEGÄLLY IN SHALL AIRCRAFT, REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 658 REQUESTS

• LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLONS:

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SCC DISSI: 0Y.

DCH.

M'UNIT NUTTIEU.

CE COPY FRUEPELOTIEO

IN UNIT

RF. FILE.

JOTAL COPIS

SECRET

Flig

OFFICE

OTHIB TI.

STAFF

VR

ON 4

F

981395

E14Ÿ67

PAGE 82

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

A• IS EIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREÄTMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PUÁCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

?. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-POSSIBLE USE LIN

GUATEMALA....

• Do REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HERMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY RESUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA.

• SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLIS:ILY

BUT MARIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS .

EXPIRED AND FE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2.

3.

---

## Page 8

13-0.0000

WidiT

FiF. FILE

931395

IDAL CORES

SECRET

- Hear

VR

PAGE 03

TOR:032242Z JUN 76

REFRON TIDN

28.01:8510 THaN

ISGUISE:

O-FiCS IS

PROMiDITEO

STAFF

15:

IN: 849557

---

## Page 9

13-00000

'. 1

CONG CiTAl

SECRET

CHLY

MOUTING ANO RECORD SHEST

Gorald Patrick

EXTENSION

•T NO

•erro G. Brotn

Socurity Analysis Group

4400

JaTE

OFFICER'S

iNITIALS

RECEITÃO

FORWARDED.

il de 26.9310

to thor.

429 229

11 June 1976

Degue a line across coisma r-ree 9-15a 6971p9t.l

1.310

tj6ps/p51

referred t FiSI- State

?.

16|211231

:9.

11.

F2.

із

CONFIDERTIAL

IS: OHL

001018

---

## Page 10

13-00000

11 June 1976

MLMORANDUN FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

SF#429

229

contacted Staff and

Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HENNING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING

/contacted the writer,

advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from

[Station

an assassination plot

on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

to the below-mentioned

cable and to provide the writer with

copy of the report coming in from the

[Station.

2

(IN 944357,

which is attached.

(provided the writer with a copy of the cable

dated 8 June 1976),

Station.

a written report, and a detailed brietcording to the informa-

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

one of the major consph August 1975

Jorge Antonio

as a result

of an attack upon his,

ZIMERI'S, life. ZINERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

3. According to the report, the National Liberation

Novement. was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

and ZIMERl in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HENNING brothers

as:isted ZIMERI in acquiring arms

among other things, which

were flown to Guatemala in a snali aircraft.

The report also

claims that ZINERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and Nel: Orleans.

INPOET

CL BY 005991

---

## Page 11

13-00000

NOTE: The

_ Station also included

information the

Chief of station had received

fron

Oll

8 June.

said thai ho

had been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatchalan governnent for the past six months or

S0.

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who

runs a guard

service

in Ninmi.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as

about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c. Is ZINERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.

treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry firearms,

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZINERI or Robert HEMMING.

-29 229, Who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

tho is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and tho

of day 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no

record) in

liani, Florida.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agine;,

lind claimed Agency affiliation when

noble or fest an isle in ace there amer

sonians vicasions since

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING clained such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HIMMINC

is a long-time cohurt of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SFI353 459),

Frank PIORINI,

of Watergate notoriety who

also has a

long-time record of falsely

Claiming Agency

affiliation.

In

the late 1950's HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionnent with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Conmunist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigado"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) wis

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are

referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 Jun:

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, .Ti.;

and an extract from a book published in carly 1976 written b)

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

book Coup d'ita

in Anerica--The CIA and the Assassination of John F. Kenned

diatrine against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

One of the major

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugone

HALL. Loran Eugene HALL Was a-member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members

of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting

that he did

so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING anc

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN,.

joined GARRISON's investigation.

Brown

Security Analysis Group

Atts

---

## Page 13

13-00000

is air is

For comes ca Smar

SECRET

120270

STAFF L

NICE

Fil F

931395

=11:61

PAGE D1

TOR: 0822423 JUN 76

ECH ET DE22ÕE JUN TO STAFF

1: 844357

ITE

O: PRIDRITY DIRECTOR INFO

EFS: A.

B.

(1N 937052)

NOT SENTO

(1N 890367).

1:

PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND NADE

ERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

1 REF & CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND

NATIONAL

BRATION MOVEMENT (MIND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

I MEN I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINGE AUGUST 75S

I PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

T j5 SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTAGK ON HIS LISE

TE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

PORT AND

• CLAIN THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

SALE PATRICK HEM MIMG INDESTATION TRACESS, HERE ALSO

VOLVED WITH ZINERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

QUIRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN TO GUATEMALA

LEGALLY IN SHALL AIRCRAFT.. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 15) REQUESTS

LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

- одн.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

REFRDDUCTION

MUNIT NOTIFIED

SE COPY FEMESLOTTED

IN UNIT

RF. FILE.

BY

STAFF

VR

9813?5

E1 AŸ 67

PAGE D2

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

A• IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS FUÄCHASE ARMS

AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

?. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-POSSIBLE USE LIN

GUATErALA...

Do REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD KERMING.

•E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA.

SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLESALLY

-

BUT iRRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS

EXPIRED AND FE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2

---

## Page 15

13-00000

divadio.

RE • FILE

931395

10I8L 8.2PIS

SECRET

RUN

VR

PAGE 03

TOR: 8022422 JUN 76

STAFF

IN: 849537

---

