# 104-10186-10009

## Page 1

104-10186-10009

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

Chicf, Wil

SECKET

Petiti

PROCESSING

АСТЮМ

14040 468 19214.96

198 TUNG AQUITO

CORE QUALITED

ALHAT ANTITS DES

CAN ANCE INCERING

MASTEACH

S 49820.280

Chief of Station, UNWAVE

SUNT TYPIC/operational

AMIARSH/ 1

ACTION RECURED. RCFERENCES

FYI

References:

UFGA- 25915,

8 Sept 66

8: UFGA- 25018, 26 April 66

ANHARSH, reported on 11 November 1966 that he had seen

(Manuel INCIARTE Oquendo (201-753666)Don 10 ilovenber 1966 and CINCIARTE

hagoShored him a letter addressed to his mother (Refusio INCIARTED 6

crequently to her mother-in-law relating news about their family in

nad to non tuana ve Retite santiago she hat no that ga note

From (NHARSH/1 Pland that soon evervching would be arranged.

D6 INCIART& knows "Santiago") is the sseudenvn AMHARSH/! has used ir

and ANARSH/l used this name in the

In view of the above AllUE/l was queried about the procedures

followed by AMSTAFF with reference to walk-ins.

ANNUG/1 advised that

instructions had been issued to all overseas representatives to treat

walk-ins courteously and to show interest in whatever they had to

All possible background and

cersona. intormation was to be

acquired by the overseas representative and this information was to be

forwarded to AMQUAKE Headquarters for confirmation and analysis.

alk-ins were considered potential sources of infornation and all wer

considerad

to have possible futura utilization

ANNUG/I clained that

information forwarded to AMSTAFF Headguarters

was screened and sent

to the dest officer for the

specific area where the walk-in

probably work if

recontacted.

It was the responsibility of the desk

officer to check all available inforration and to rake a determination

Continued

Distribution

4- WH/C

+19-6-10213

8.4:- Bit:

SECRET

DATE TIFCO

14 Dec 68

OISPATCH SIMILL ANO NUMACA

DATE CASPATCHEO

DEC 28 Su

UFGA- 26621

HEADQURATENS ILE DUMBER

19-5-123/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

./.a

Lo.:1.000r

DISPAICH

0?6981?..

60l. 2:5.21

if the milkain could do unrel and alculd be peerstaster

the dise el talinin until rocontict

would probably do at leiit four sonths or sore.

Do Chricualy ASTArT hi

recrived Allu/l's 1.310S:1/1 8n11:-in

roport, and they are probably in the process of raling a deterrination

As indieated pirvinuly in paragraph 8 of reicroner 3,

has been suvicrins the Mit!A!S!1/1 roration for core tire

the sendpoint of it: cost 1$1,500 per year in slation to AMlA:cill:

accoss to hair! intelligence and cpurationed infootation, and his

tine the walk-in ilise of the rperation

appears prorising; hover,

hiu access to any hard intellisence is

now nil, and hi: production of opurational cupcort information has

duindled to infrequent rarinal reports.

Thus he is of no further

opciational usa to JilAVl unless ho is recontacted and utilliod by

MiQuikE, and our experiunce in this type operation has shom un that

utilization by MiqUil can ba a long, drim out affair before any

tangible results are achieves.

Jinvs in initiating actions to terminate as of

They for iration date of current JillAVe deposit to the cover

conpany) MiHIAIS:i/2'5

salaty and cover enployrent.

ile have advised

MAksill of the prolsbility that he vill ho teminated, and he is

nou in the process of reching other enplogreat in the JAVE arca

where he wishes to rurain

after 30 April 196.7 eur contact and

financial arranscents with AHAPS ll will depend upon the status of

A Chine On Crony

chould have no troit chieet en AStAlls intoriot in hin, since

MISTAEY is arano foon MATUlUll's wallin resort that NHlMN0:/1 was

disatisfiod with his cover coupany position.

Ou 13 Sentended I956 AHlAISH/L de5 rcheduled to be pivon a

SOSHINI cranination.

On arrival at the croninction site he claired to

"have a slicht head cold, and the SCalph began on the basis that the

clight cold night not interfore with the rosults.

exurination processed it becate apparent llArStill vas sufferiir.

Iron more than i slicit cold, ind irconclusive SidlIll results wore

being obtained.

conscquently, 1t was

decided to discontinue the

cxonination and rescheculed it when his health sas better

On 15 Septenber 1906 MiNisillunderwent an oscration

• lesion of the urinary bladder, Accordini to the doctor's report,

ine Lesion sas nulichant but they vore able to rcrove all traces of

the salignancy.

Post-openitive treatnent included alrost two :onths

of radition diathemy troatients.

AlA:S:/1 has nou recovered.

another sositil exuriration lus been schoduled for 20 Decenter 1956.

dinAVi: will pronptly advise leacquartors of all importont

develophents in

the AülekSill opcration.

Philip So PliAPD

Tracena

---

