104-10186-10315)

mal

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tots marariat contains taformativa aifecting the National Defense of the Colted States withia the mennlng of the Eaploases Laws, Tue
3 CBC. Gece TE and THE the Urenemiaion oF revelation “of which ‘Ganner to en wnsuthorterd pereoo ts prohibited Uy law,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

‘COUNTRY Cuba # REPORT NO. CS ~311/02108-64
SUMECT : Policy Guidance Directives for OATE DISTR, 18 August 1964
Cuban Intelligence Representatives

in Paname as Issued by the MA NO. PAGES 9

Department (Intelligence) of the :
DGE : REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64
: CS-311/00345-64

Date OF 1964 RETURN TO CIA
PLACE & : Background Use Only
DATE ACQ. (June 1964) FIELD REPORT NO. Do Not Reproduce

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFOMMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

SOURCE. A former Cuban officer who served with the Cutan Intelligence y
Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a
document which source provided this Ageney and concerns the
General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de
Inteligencia - DGI) MA Department's policy guidance directive
for Cuban intelligence representatives in’ Panama. The MA
Department no longer exists, as such, having keen divided
into two departments: [llegal Department (legal) and the
Natioval Liberation Department (Likeracion Nacional - LN).
DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION
COUNTRY: PANAMA

IMPERATIVE

1. Collective Action

2. Anti-Guerrilla Schools

3. Position of the Political Parties Toward the Cuban
Revolution

4. Relations with the U.S.A.
5. Cubans in the Yazkee Army ;
6. Revolutionary Organizations

7. Movement of Solidarity with Cuba

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM .

: “SS
wate om Taear Tra Lore ne Oe Tek loc 1 ypi_ 2
REPCINCLANT _ CINCSO = 18NS :
‘ote: Fisld dinibution indicated by “2

| f LX-1604

NP (AMMUG-1) ‘
fox faa se Rage _{ Ies-311/02108-64
[CI/7Ls 42) (ror AF/OSi. acsi. ONT! sv. FAT Para 9 a. -k teominitecds


S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN PISSEM
- la - CS-311 02108-64
—

Hdgrs Dissem WE/S.

WE/BC
WH/COPS WE/R
WH/PO/A

WH/PO/B
WH/1
WH/2
wii/3
WH/3/V
WH/4
wH/S:
WH/G
WH/R

WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA/NOB
WH/SA/R
WH/SA/Tnt
WH/SA/CE
WH/SA ‘SONS

eb

SR/CI
SR/CLK
SR/RR
SR/O/WH

~
tt rt

Field Dissem

maw: © 49

e
ek ek el ee eee

cr/Staft
CI Liaison
CI/REA
RID/AN

AF/L
AF/2
AF/3
AF/4
AF/R
AE/CI

EE/K
EE/SA
EE/ER
EE/YA
EEA
EE/P
EE/C
EE/IIS

FE/PMI/T
FE/JKO/JO
FE/JKO/K
FE/VNC/VN

BREE Bee ee BO

fsecereseateeeeeesececeersersteee

“Liaison Dissem

IE,

oy ut

NE/
NE/AA/T
NE/S/P
NE/6/CET
NE/Intel
NE/CI

et
arr

WE/2
WE/2
WE/3
WE/4

et te

. S-E~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSE

on) i


9.
10,
ll.

12.
13,
14,
15.

16,
17,
18,

S-E-C-R ‘T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2- CS-311 /02108-64

Canal Zone

Situation of the leftist forces
Repressive bodies within Panama
Panamanian Comaunist Party

INPORTANT

Internal Political life of the country
Situation witain the Armed forces

The Church

Functions, characteristics, and data on members of the
foreign service and Diplomatic Corps accredited to the

gountry.
NECESSARY
The Press
Government structure and organizational functions

Collaborators concerning the national economy.

{NTELLIGENCE GUIDANCE AND OBJECTIVES
COUNTRY: PANAMA

IMPERATIVE

COLLECTIVE ACTION

a) Military or political measures adopted in Latin
American anti-Cuban Regional Organizations in
which the Panamanian Government participates.

b) Use of Panamanian territory for Latin American
or Yankee military operations - participating
armies ~- units and their effectives. Date of
operations ~ methods and places of arrival -
exit from Panama ~ their destination.

c) The use of Panamanian soldier contingents in
operations against Cuba. Units and commanding
officers of units that would participate.

d) Meetings, of a military and political nature,
held in Panama: Agenda, agreements, and plans
worked out at these meetings. Coordination of
activities against Cuba worked out at these
meetings - Panamanian representatives at meetings.

e) Yopics discussed at CDCA meetings. CDCA discusstons
on Cuba. Agreements and plans formulated.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



Fa)

8)

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-~3- CS-311 02108-64

Measures taken concerning Cuban travel.

Possibilities .f rupture with Cuba by Latin American
couttries that still maintain then(ic),

'ER-INSURGENCY SCHOOLS

bd)

2)

a)

e)

£)

2)

Counter-insurgency schools maintained by Yankee
Imperialism in Panama and the Canal Zone -
especially the Canal Zone.

Latin Americans attending these courses; duration
of training cycle; name, rank, and nationality.

Counterrevolutionary elements attending anti-
guerrilla courses either as instructors or
trainees; name and rank. Army.of current assignment
and the duration of their training cycle.

Nanuals and texts used in counter-insurgency schools.
Special weapons - duration of training cycle.

Specialist schecls (i.e. Paratroopers, Frogmen) in
Yankee bases. Location of these bases.

Elements training at Fort Davis as CIA agents or
specialists in the various Latin police forces.
Name,,rank,and nationality of trainees and the
duration of their training cycle.

Manuals used at the Fort Davis training school,
their techniques and identity of instructors,
Panamanians taking these courses,

POSITION OF POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION.

a) Their attitude toward the II Havana Declaration,

b) Their attitude toward Cuban-Soviet relations
affecting Cuba and world peace.

¢) Their reaction toward accusations that Cuba is a
Communist base for aggression toward Latin America.

RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.

a) Alliance for Progress. Peace Corps.

b) Relations with American loan organizations,

c) American military assistance and the role of the
American military mission.

d@) Training of Panamanian military personnel in
American schools.

e) Location of American bases.

f)

Special forces schools in Panama.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


8)

h)

CUBANS IN ¥.

b)

c)

d)

. S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-4- CS-311/02108-64

Naval Order of Battle - fleet identification =
types of vessels ~ number of vessels = unit
identification. ‘

American troop concentrations. Movement observed
within bases. Movement of ships, aircraft, ete. -
Inform whether the build-up during the crisis has
been maintained or reduced. :

EE ARMY.

Cuban counterrevolutionaries in Yankee Army bases
in Panama; especially Kotte Base, Fort Gulick, and
Rio Hato. Punta Mala and Mamintoes. Units to which
these mercenaries are assigned - their numbers.
Name and rank of their officers. Length of tii
they have veen in the American Army. Date of their
arrival in Panama.

Information concerning the arrival of new contingents
of Cuban mercenaries in Yankee bases in Panama -
method of transport and their point of departure.

Yankee and mercenary troop concentrations carried

out in the Canal Zone and Yankee basés in Panama.
Ostensible reasons for their presence, Maneuvers

in Panama in which Latin American units have participated
and their arrival there. Army involved, units, and
their strength, :

Movements of Yankee personnel from the Canal Zone
that would denote special preparations or situations.

COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS,

a)

b)

Counterrevolutionary organizations operating in Panama.
Identity of leaders, Their government contacts and
assistance received. Their contacts with other national
sectors - their contact mechanism,

Communications between organizations (counterrevolutionary)
in Panama and their headquarters in Miami, Their
contacts in Cuba.

MOVEMENT OF SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA

a)

b)

Verify whether the Movement of Solidarity with Cuka has
been formed. How does-it function, Identity of
leaders, etc.

The potential of active manifestations by progressive >
organizations in favor of solidarity.

CANAL ZONE.

a)

The necessity of Canal Zone penetration via press
reports of same,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



10,

»)

ol

a)

e)

sf)

CS-31102108-64

Operations data, Entry and Exit control regulations,
Requirements for movement within the zone. Decumentation
required. Internal customs. Regulations concerning
ships and crews while in (he canal zone.

Civil and Military internal ‘administration with details

‘ of ifs organization and structure, Data on principal

officials.

Intoleratle economic and political turmoil caused by
\the Canal Zone maritime activities in Panama.

Entry and exit of-canal. Disparity in wages between
North Americans and Latin Americans, Effect of

canal zone commercial establishments on Panamanian
commerce. Attitude of Yankee officers and soldiers
toward Panamanian nationals and their public officials,
Policy of racial discrimination in the Canal Zone,

Jamaican negro population and their relations with
Jamaica. |

Mindu population in the Canal Zone and their relations
with British Guiana,

a)

bv)

©)

d)

e)
ft)

n

n)

i)
iD

2 tg

Leftist political organizations - their liaison
arrangements.

Student movement: structure, strength, and orientation
of its organizations. The need of collaborators to
provide information on these matters.

Workers’ and Peasant organizations: structure,
Strength, degree of unity, leaders, work that
they carry on. Imperialist penetration, ORIT.
Propaganda media of leftist forces.

Repressive measures against leftist forces,
Attitude of leftists toward insurrectlon.
Leftist attitude toward the Cuban Revolution.

Effects of the Carihkean crisis on the leftist
forces, and consequences.

Periodic and permanent contact with the Left.

Information on Leftist reaction toward the
political and economic changes taking place in

Cuba.

FORCES

ESS LY!

Repressive forces operative in Panama. ‘Their
function, organization, tactics, leaders, and
officers.

dO FOREIGN DISSEM



S-E-C-R-E-T
? NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-6- CS-311/02108-64

b) Plans and objectives of internal repression.
Tactics utilized against the Literation Movement
and Solidarity with Cuba. Their objectives in
the struggle against these movements.

‘Agreements in effect now between Panamanian and
Central and Latin American revressive bodies.
Meetings: held to coordinate repressive measures
within the Zone. ‘Dates, place, and identity of
those attending meetings. Agreements reached to

+. fight againgt the Liberation and Cuban Solidarity
Movements. Practical measures taken to carry thea

“out.

e)

4) Foreign advisers of. the repressive forces (Yankees).
Name, rank, and role of advisers. Specific cases
4n which these advisers have intervened. "DENI"

activities,

e) Police regional schools established in Panama
ca or Canal Zone, Instruction offered. Training

a cycle. Manuals (obtain copies). Instructors.

Panamanian nationals and other Latin Americans
taking these courses. Name, rank, and nationality.

f) Central Intelligence Agency. Foreign heads in Panama.

Their name and duties. CIA offices. CIA objectives
in Panama, Their plans to accomplish these plans.
CIA's national net. Their outstanding operatives:
their name, rank,and duties. Their principal
targets. Penetration of CIA net.

g) Interpol contacts. Coordination with Interpol.
Restrictive measures on Cuban travel, Agents.

11. COMMUNIST PARTY OF PANAMA.
a) Its attitude toward the II Havana Declaration.
b) Its attitude toward Cuban-Soviet Relations.

c) Its attitude toward the direction of Cuban
national and international policies.

a) Its attitude or position regarding the
International Communist Movement Schism.

1) China-USSR.

2) Albania-USSR.

3) Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania . a in
4) Peace Movement.

5) Peaceful Co-existence.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



12,

e)
2) Disputes.
f)
With V.A.N,
- 1) Disputes,
mass organizations.
8)
h)
of guerrilla action. :
i) Their work on Solidarity with Cul
3) Propaganda media. ;
k)
»)
the Communist Party of Pan
IMPORTANT

S-E-C-R T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Sit ied

The Party's Internal Situation

1) Strength, leaders (data on leaders),

The Party's relations with other leftist elemerts.

2) Possibilities of Unity. Their work with

Official Agitation policy of the Party.

{ts position as to the unity of the Central
American Parties, regarding the development

Party finances - source of their finances.

Establishment of periodic and permanent contact with

PANAMA'S INTERNAL POLITICS.

a)

b)

“e)

d)

e)

)

Bourgeois Political parties, composition, strength,
leaders, biographic data on

propaganda media,
internal dissensions, and their

leaders, programs,

position concerning the Canal Zone,

Relations of bourgeois political parties with
North American monopolies, with the American
Embassy, Canal authorities, and the church.

Anti-Communist campaigns.
“on Cuba. Leaders.

Their posture - attacks

Fraternal Secret Organizations,

Relations with the Panamanian Government and the
"Yankee" Embassy.

Bourgeois political parties’ relations with Armed

Forces.

Bourgeois politicians who have: supported popular,
demonstrations against the Canal Zone. Date on
these politicians,

Thelma King.
and contacts.

Biographic data, past activities,

S-E-C-R-E-T -

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

CS-311/02108-64



13.

14,

15.

ARMED FORCES INTERNAL SITUATION,

a)

b)
c)
d)

e)
f)
8)
h)
THE

S-E~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

att Heed CS-3L1 O210S-—4

Armed Forces: Structure. corps, equipment,
strength, corps organization, principal
barracks or camps.

Data on military talon and their activities.
Coup d'état groups within the Armed Forces.

Military relations with other Latin American
countries, \

Ideological indoctrination of the Armed Forces.
Program postures and media.

Data on Panamanian Military figures in international
organizations U.N., Inter-American Defense Board),
military attachés in and from Latin American
countries.

Plans for counter-insurgency training.

Armed Forces relations with the Church.

CHURCH.

a)
b)

e)
a)

e)
£)

8)
h)

i)
3)

Ecclesiastical Hierarchy.

Position and controversies between foreign and
national clergy.

Participation of the Church in internal politics.

The Church's secular organizations (i.e. Catholic
Working Youth).

The Church's campaign against Cuta.

The Church's penetration of veasants, workers, and.
students,

The Church's relations with Canal Zone Authorities.

Inter-relationships between plans of the Church and
the U.S.A,

The Church's relations with the Panamanian Government.

Influence of the Church on education. oF

FUNCTIONS, CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA ON MENFERS OF TEE POSEIGN

SERVICE AND THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ACCREDITED TO THE CO!

a)

b)

UN.

OAS, Inter-American Defense Board.

S-E-C
NO FOREIGN DIsseM



: S-E-C-R-E-T Sy
. ee NO FOREIGN DISSEX id
Begs CS-311/02108-64 i

c) Panamanian officials in Latin American countries;
Latin American officials in Panama.

a) Information obtained in diplomatic circles regarding
the internal life. of the country.

‘Dispatching of official documents, seals, signatures,
etc.

16. THE PRESS.
a) Data on journalists and diffusion media in Panama,

b) Possibilities of using these jourtalists within ‘the
country and abroad. ~

17, STRUCTURE OF GOVERNMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL FUNCTIONS.

a) Relations botween’the Executive and the Ministries.

b) The function of Congress, its most outstanding figures.
Relations with the "Yankee" Emtassy, the North
American monopolies, and the canal authorities.

c) Data on the closest collaborators of R. Chiari.

d) The Judicial Power, Personalities occupying high
positions, Important laws. Repressive laws,

Relations of the Judicial branch with other
branches of the government.

e) Other governmental organs - their functions.

ft) The necessity of recruiting collaborators to
gather information on these issues.

18. SPOTTING OF COLLABORATORS TO INFORM ON THE NATIONAL ECONOMY.

a) New economic policy of United Fruit.
- b) North American investments.

c) Position of Panama regatding Céntral American
economic integration,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

