He neen

TEsELGRe Le

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Waited states wunse the meaning of tee Eapiunage Lawn, Trae

‘This material contains tnformation affecting the Katicaal Defense of tt
yy manner to an waeuthorized prema le prolibived By ae

18. UBC fece 192 and 794 tne treneaimica of revelation of which
SECRET
* NO FOREIGN. DISSEM

Country Cuba REPORT NO. C$ CI-316/00696~S;
suaect Shipment of Explosives to DATE OSTR) «25 August 1964

Mexico :
. NO. PAGES: 1

REFERENCES, RETUEN

TO CIA

Background U:
1964 ise.Oni
DATE OF DO Not Re pr Serta

piace & Washington, D. C
DATE ACQAy t_ 1964 FIELD_REPORT NO.
THIS (5 UNEVALUATED _IN/ORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE OEPNITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE.

sourcs A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Following is a translation of a report which source !

wrote concerning a shipment of explosives to Mexico:

“The Communist Party of El Salvador had asked me to
send them twenty-five, one quarter pound packages of
gelatin explosives. They requegted that the explosives be
sent to Mexico where they would recover them and take
them to El Salvador.

“In view of the request, I spoke with Manuel PINEIRO
regarding the shipment itself, as well as the amount,
PINEIRO answered by telling me to do so.

"During my trip to Mexico (March 1964) I spoke with
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez regarding this shipment and he told
me that there was no need of my sending the explosives ~
to Mexico as this type of explosive was available in the
Embassy. I then. told RODRIGUEZ that I would answer the
request from El Salvador.

"Upon returning to Cuba I spoke with PINEIRO, who told
me not to send the explosives as the orders now were to
send nothing but money due to the recent exposure of the
arms shipment to Venezuela."

SECRET :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM aed

meme

[za Ten Taemy Twa ae Trea

REP CINCLA CINCSO # _I&NS

oe T Fst 2 |

[LINow Feed dutribution indicated by "27

NO PROJECT (AMME
1s SCI-316/0069
Taam
Mik:
WH/SA 7 (1). WE 1 (2). Cr 4, . : cues

qoeno y ORSOL ere PREV:OUS EDITIONS ial

BIRR
