# 104-10070-10179

## Page 1

104-10070-10179₽

DISPATCH

(LASSE NATION

SECRET/RYBAT

Chief, Vestern Hemisphere Division

Chief. NH/Miamt

! /i

Chief of Station,

RYTAT/PLANARYSS/PRRUMEN - Cuban Exiles in Narcotics

PROCESSEZO ACTION

BARTED OR DIESE

NO MODING EQUEND

ONELY QUALITED DESI

COM JUDGE DEDE TIRE

Action Required: Traces and Indexing

IKDACROBAT-I renorted on 30 May 1972,that the following

Cuban exiles were nilegedly involved in narcotics traffic.

л.

•*.

1 211

Renventoser'r and n. aka "El Migote que Canta"

ij Address:

Los Angoles, California

Allegedly Involved In Narcotics traffic to the

!! і:

")...

Adolfospadron

Address:

Los Angeles, California

sanentes ul Lilbada 2000, attemptint to obtain

Las. citizenship in order

to

facilitate travel

netween. the U.s. and Mexico.

Closely associated

with Mionvenido

Bran

da, allegedly involved

in narcoties traffic.

2..

CADACROBAT-I received Information on other Cuban exiles

Involved in micotles traffic from:

Bernardo deTa trEe, CIT: USA (ex-Cuban)

• Abadtary. Mimoment Corp.,

UCC: Privato investigatoritianto, reorgia.

Actual Employment with

Address:

2700 S.H. 23 Terrace, Apt. 102, Miami, Elorida..

Who, CHIACHONAl-I says,

will provide more information on

Cuban exiles

involvod in narcoties

tinffic.

According to Torres the following

cuban refugees are so Involved: They arrived in lexico from Miami

two

On

Anxico Acronaves Flight of 1 Fobruary 1972.

continued/

Distribution:

Originni&

2 - Chlet, WIl Dfvision

Dr.FAI-M STABU! AND NUMBLE

*CUSSINGANON

SECRET/RYBAT

TRATE

Typed: 3 July

NOS MIE NUADIN

1972

200-11-11/3

PRODUCTIONS

---

## Page 2

1:400000

ip fat 1

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH.

CLASSIFICATION..

SECRET/RYBAT

SE AND NUMOER

§ANNA, 42, 095

a.

Mariony I men er

DROB: cArca 1935, CUbai CIT; USA-

acC. stock brokorage at 7th Streot and 20th Avenue.

N.Y., Miami:

Formor shortfs with police of Want

where he had problems:

He is 5'11", weighs 165 lbs,

swarthy.

b.

Frank#*C on don

DPOB: SlICA 1932,

le 1s 5'7",

weighs 145 Ibs,

ICs, ace marked by acne

Torres said

that both individuals dressed well and travelled first

class.

They stayed nt the "Fiesta Palnce" hotel in Mexico City.

ACROBAT-I also provided

some details on one Jose Enrique

de In

Toscon who, he says, was caught a year and a

unle mao transporting cocaine cross the

US-Nexican border at Laredo

and is now ill prison.

(KDACROBAT-I says he knew Cotera personally.

Noses R. KROWNAPPLE

---

