# 104-10163-10148

## Page 1

104-10163-10148

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUSTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

Fill' in Soct. 2.

on back. Detach back

flap and forward to RID.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless 1

ecords significant action taken o

comments requiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no, and title shown are not

proper, insert proper file no. below

and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FELL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

WH/4 RECISTRY

TO

1.

#A/4 REGISTRY

ROOM

DATE

OPPICKE'E

ND.

RECEIVED

POrWARDED

INITIALS

21 APR 1961

OSPY DETAGHED

- Leperta

Siebefor

верокк

Action, fary.

10.

цінр.

Barton

12.

T3.

14.

18.

11/4 REGISTLE

19.

RID/T1

TRACE

REQUEST

ARGYRANT

4;

6100 ME P80YH6409

SO% BAOVE

inv

FILE TITLE

FILE SUNDER INMAAY CEOLO

141 - 251619

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMENT

18 APR 1961

UFGA 01291

"SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, WHD

85679

UFG-A-1291

HBADOUARIERS FILE NO

TO

INFO

FROM

Chief of Base, JMWAVE

1111

Transmittal of AMCLATTER-1 Memorandum

ACTION RON lease see paragraph 3

LEFERENCESI

DATE

3R13 15

RE: "43.3" - (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIPEr

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

"1.

Attached 1s a memorandum submitted by AMCLATTER-1

on 5 April 1961.

A translation follows..

"I received a request from Dr. JOse R. ANDREU

for assistance in obtaining a visa for his great..

nephew, young Eladio DIAZ Salas, 17 years old, who

18 now in Jamaica and who wishes to come to this

country to join the Army of Ilberation. Young DIAZ

Salas is in contact with Father ROPER.

His address

3 Worblington Ave., Kingston 5, Jamalca, tele-

phone 78-1787.

"DI. ANDREU, former chief of the Partido Demo

crate In Cuba, father of Jose (Pepito) ANDREU who

le in the camps, is an outstanding leader of the

opposition to the Castro regime. •

2 Action to be taken on this request in left to the

discretion of Headquarters.

03

CASIONS

12 April 1961

Distributions

2 - Headquarters, w/att.

2 - Files, slatt.

8. 7771

UA PRAVANA ALUTANTA

#1 24, $0-JLA ANDO &I 20

Cs Coma

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

261-251682

-I CONTINEO

V/BR

---

