# 104-10413-10293

## Page 1

104-10413-10293)

DISPATCH

chiat, vil Dirlaton

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION.

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESS

CAN JUGGE INDEXING

INFO.

FROM

thier ne station, Marica City

SUBJECT

LIZE POSTS Repost/Anet, Sententare October 1963

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Bal: IN11- 22029

Actton: For your intertion

report ln cubadtta in secon

AN EXPLOTIUNNZON OF SEATS

SLIERODE

Is the comes of the reporting restod lteri

covered two tarta of 11001% interest. Cao of those lines vas emalderdi

Inductiva of operationel Innag but uls temporarily alecastimod for operation

ressons. Coverage of the second lina was teranatad for lack a moductiaa.

The only lend produced fiva this Iina Was TopOrSud On In INMIA-22164- INFEAr I

continued to cover to linas 1n commoction with the Alstall oparstion. The

Inchet of tata coverage 1a cl Intarest to Speetnl Affairs Stati and JHAVE ar

thn too 15 ferrurded weakly to theon curtoners. Racently this pertiolar

coveraga has provided infamation al interest on the rolationahina vithin the

findly of fidel CAsTRo and the continuing deterioration of these rolationshiy

Coverage of the hone phone of a Cuban official was instituted at the request

= Epecial Affair Staff officer to supert the smattiva AROD operation.

third sores

LIar contimed Its corerage of the bose puc

af two kaam dovlot intalligence officera.

Product and uas contimen as sups

In reforence: Coverage of one of there Itnas wa discontimed during the rec

abanaco fro leadeo of one of those targets. 1a1a coverage ia now being re-

(5) ITFRAN/POllab

nIlair with the wife of another Pallah official.

Sor further Diation setion in this case. Lifest ban Increased Ita coverago :

support of this posalble future récruitment attoupt. Also la tha Polish fle:

IDEN provided coverage of e suspected Folish 11lagnl rsidias 1a Mecleo.

(cantinsed)

CROSS REFERENCE TO

6190-.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

20054-22555

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

29 Noireber 1963

HOS FILE NUMBER.

508-3313

---

## Page 2

13-00000 T 1 2 -

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

13008/82212

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

13214-22636

sasino into of tataral.

in miditten to ta

me Infomstica

lesteta el Commieta to trel to llles ind tregusnily on tO Gide,

ta of intoront to Dor, landerarters and the santos Chuz cisleep in datso.

Rus ani the commso ol a muiatra 1120 cabre tho intarsasod emtone to mis

tata a chaos on the toss (Nal ast's activistes natch mu seniost tas sout

& FACEBEST SLI

C. ERREAKE

for +2e

to catana bis conduntos" as imentistes of pervouce

SEe BECITY datica below.

During the remarting sarlod menlal drug uma prortand by llandruartons fer

na triaban at e child of bursios, "ta drug was' not nintlable locally dad

IIETy ses sout cratedal for the enolutinos of bla "preda" in obtuitas thie

Do B2ATe0

B 224123

ITaTAl 'a mpenne to extend lin limatientiva coulasica to cover mylopes

or thay

necess ef luilt nol nonet maduren the seenity thrat to the liftAy

a contral om then toridug on inallation nonle of renoal co luna

mis latter om not bo fully notatad sino 1t sa sou agarent that to bie verses

stetus INrull ena sner prurião the jursonal bach ln santaction to there berk.

paramel that ho carla pior to bla rottrate Alstouch tha mink inburnt in.

• Ipar tre operation can Dor so completely aliminatod, lt 1o fait true 1t

com bo restend to i sortable level.

Phantom LInut wil sot bure to ren the motiouler rich of senstablishen

the consis, It ma the seconanly conleted "jup" hoa no cocons son

to mother that alerted the talophona coumy coor to choct tue top 13em 89005

FORM

0s bats coresa comeribed 1a pepsi to of relea

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.:

10-57 530

REPLACES FORMS

(40)

51-28, 51.28A AND 51-29

BREE/HER

CONTINUED

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SORET/50/24T

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

FDO4A 22536 .

5 ПУСКУС

No chines tra provion raparto.

a, 5ho corms polded by lIst outas the mporting pertod totalad 24

neparate 22000. 1 brunclena by durgat l0 sa fallous:

2o Almiranda do ENTICION

So. 40 5 and 6o Polteh Enbracy and Casartial 018900

9"

7. Be 8 a eat at teacho

20-

some of a Croch Intellige criteer

20l 12.

Hones of mugnated Follie IB agats.

and 240

and related 1iro

18 I8.

and calated Iina.

17-

19

30г

23.

Dotag the reportins purol e sabas ol ramants: vure grujared by tas

Irrat sovided artartal.

ranthos, tho folling Els vose taoed on Ilust poridal Inferentia.

206 7574

EM 7746

EXE YO91

B30-7723

300 2102

ESt 7900

194752

13479

4Gn501-.04

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO.

_CONTINUEO

---

