# 104-10170-10020

## Page 1

104-10170-10020

SECRET

15 Sorender 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUB.JEC :

Conversation witb Mr.

Rocha and Mr. Lasa

Aftor Their Meeting with Mr. Helms

PERSONS PRESENT: Lula Pernander Rocha. Juse lans,

Mentor D. Sancher

TINE AND PLACK:

1700 houre, 13 November 1962,

Dupont PlaIA Hotel, "BaDington, D.C.

1. Rochs and lisa were very pleased and happy.

over their discussions with Mr. Helme. Daloes U.8. policy

becomes one of coexistence ulth Castro, Roche 18 cortala

to Agency and the DRE can continue surually beneficial

cooperation.

2. The purpone of thia conterantion vas to doline

the more spoelfle polate of disagreesent se viewed by

Rocha. Before starting Rucha admittod that many of rbe

past disagreements vero sinor but had becone "the Berlins."

of the DRE sainly because of the manner 1a vaica they

were presented by their linal contact. In short they re-

fused to be dactatod to and threatened. Roche gavo bie

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SESTET

contact 1n Miaml A COpy Of the VEly Amerlena. Be agroed

t9la vana'l condumire to good relations but added he vas

no fed-up by tole tine that the DRE felt 1e va Impossible

to discuss anything of importance uith their contact aay

way.

9. According to Roche the following Items In order

of Importance have caused the most difficulty:

n. Military oporatlons: The; DRE foelu 1t

has boon completely chocked in thia field, ob

vously the field In which they feel and vant

to be operating.bm They feel their plans aro

not cocaldered serloudly and alternato plana.

have not boon presented to ther. They would l1ke

to know 11 the DRE la golng to be considered for

participation la military operationa (aabotago,

ote) or permitted to conduct their own? Rocha

clALaR 85% Ol the DRI MeRDerAhID 1ª OXllO ATO

presently inactivo, they also have approxiastoly

30 men who have been trained by the Agerey.

In short a desiro to use the DRE manpover for

operations against the Castro regine. Ao re

quentod by Mr. Helms, Rocha agroed to present

their plans for Agency consideration.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEGRET

Internaldoenl Operatioar, Latla Anerselo

Operatioos:

(1). Admialotrative; The DRE las 15 men

ready Includiag viana to send to countrios in

Latin America.

• They need the money and auchortzation

to send then.

(2) They are presentlog a plas to have tuo

"raveling socrotaries" who could travel and check

the actloitles of the dilforeat delegations. They

also fool there l9 a nood at present for a meeting

or rounlon of the chiefs of their delegations in-

ordor to formulate noy plass and targots. Rocha

fools the old thenos of discrediting Caairo, bo-

tTRyal of Rerolutlos, ote., here lost their Biess

and sew propagaada thenos must bo developod.

(Rochs 1s personally Interonted and admitted that

even 1f and when the Cuban problem 18 resolved the

DRE vanto to contisue dra operations la Latin

Anorican. I latroduced the mubjoct of continod

Puturo 10DE saDge cooperatioa, Rochs and Llaa

both agreed this mould do vory demirable providod

knowledgo of this cooperation could and would be.

Imited to the top lendershlp of the DRE, fearing

they wouid bo rondered completely toellective 11

---

## Page 4

CLOSET

of Tackoe laportallan 45

Latin Amorica.

I agrood thia would not be de-

alrablo for elider party. hey clalm chia in

uhat man sapposed to thelr delegato le li

and the reason for pulling him out.. They se-

m1t he daa diso a tresendous Job but expardod

no last and 1s dolas so much he bas beer inbolod

« CIA agent. Rocha adalta the fallure of the

Lina Rep la tise do did too good of 1 Jos,

Ironscal an sals nay sousd. Bocha clalis

Peruriano hare natod hin why the DRI bes a

CIA agent as top in Llan.)

(3) Thia discusnion brought up the majeet

Of BAlArIeN fiT DRE:L/A RopE and TO VOTi pAy

then. Rocha sinitted thin aubjoct and Lle de-

tector teste bare bocone the "Berlins of the DRe".

He agreed they vore slaor compared to the inportance

of the overail relattonship. ! suggonted 1t vaa

Inconcolvable to no that sone arrassonert acceptable

to both partlos couldn"t do roached on met minor

detalla (enprostelag ninor to soften lio tao con

IrOnise" Berlla position.) I used the 11se that

6HA1

EsCape, 919 88830

Gw: 19:88 1941

to 200

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

DUT RODO SO LAlIE AmorSCa MOre Deld sOspUBiblO

8OS IÃO COUM$:2A:10S US DiL AgOLCY ACtIOlET 10!

thelr partist ir countles whether their ous or one

In which their holp vas anted by nochor elenont

of the Agency. Il man the Agoney lepromentatives

18 EÃO LA CORI:TION MAO SOlE 18 SOCOSSArY tO JArO

the responsissilly to pay the saladlos of thols

contacts 11 180y Tre hold resposalble for delirity

they vere sated to become involved sill. I auggeatod

I folt 1t vas a suall concession to nato for the

benefita ve isa? Included) were deriving from this

cooporation. Rebe soreed, but 15 vas orldest do

use atill tragging hin foot no I brought up the

subjoct of lie car coreral fund and bow 11 to DRE

did not pay te salaries they mould hold bach the

percentagos "Talustarily" Iron onch sna's salary.

I suggested lINS prObably an arrangesent could be

reached with thalr new Minal contact that the salary

Could be SpilE, DOrmIEZIAS AÇeNCy RePO, tO pAY the

DRE Rops 1a Il the salarles agreed to, and elving

DRE Hqd 1n WIn the percentage they would bold

bacK 11 they somoolves vero payles, the salarlos.

Both Rocha dad land admitted they persozally solt

SECRET

orates tra atente

0HYF1A8 18

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

€

1b 1 m

" &

a rossorable approach sid adasited ispy...

mold agroo lo such a solution, but denired lo

disuas le wien their people in Miaml. (pre-

mably Manuel Salvat), l made l° clear cia:

•*to above una only a persoamt Idea no how I lolt

an agreemert could do reached. "aos laillig to

Roche commonted that he van cortain as agreement

could be renched and he personally agreed to

mes a solutton.. (Lade puahod Roche lato miating

no nIno agreed).

(1) Regardlag the une of the ble detector

I told Bocha 1 was not interested in bou the sub

Joe 'Dad broached tità then but fole ll they mere

al all serlounly Interested 1n the socurity of their

organizatios, I sound 1t hard to bolieve don they

could afford not to take adrastago of this ald to

Kap tbensolton from Dolng pesetrated.. The Ageney

1s cortalaly concorded over the posalbillty that

* Erous ultr ualca sheparo coopent 188 could bo

perotratod and ho, Rochs, se the froup leader ahould

Do even more concerned, orpoclally when be 1o ro-

sonaible for the liveo of Individunlo la hootilo

Eschetes 829 8 torto

:A

De: 218:.211'49

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SEGRET

torrslory, Rochs s'aied thie concorned lin vory

much and did agree to test the R/O'a sad Individu

ala Infilernied. Put, I saked Rocha did de Bonently

Seel tale was suppledent?

I continued that to

Raou so Moll no I last to communiota vere capablo

Of pOseirAtIng dE faller diES leTela, no proven Dy

knows cases which have been uncovered. Further

more, l conticued, an a responsiblo lendor he should

find 1t difficult to ust dis non to undertake some

1h1e8 ho rould not do hiasoll, alter s1l this 10 a

basle priacipal of good leaderabip. This approach

Finibly rocked Rocha especially with lass sodding

profusely in agreesent (Thla lollon Lasa must be

kept around so & prop). Rochs then related the story

of hou eves the jesulto haro beos penetrated. Agala,

I sated Roche to consider the llo dotector tuate on

the sagla of an ald for their on protection.

(3) Finances: Mocha expressed hope that we

vould not continue the promont aystem of roquenting

Punds dy viltten senorandun for enca exponditures

He connlalnod this invoired nich payer work, and many

tina because of thedlay 10 recolular approval,

soretinen 3-4 daya, operational opporzualties vould

Do slaned. I munitiod i vas sot varo of the

Arrasser: 185.63

---

## Page 8

SECRET

fInnncial syaten being used but 1f thuy were

experiencieg difficulties 1 encouraged then to

Iccept Mr. Holma' osar and set up a Byotes vita:

the bolp of an Agency export.

They vero concerned over not barlag secelred the opera :

ational exponnes for November and vondered when they could

expect them.

I gromised to check.

NESTOR LEA

SAYCHE?

TYY/PA-PROP

BCOP 1

1702 368:60 11

---

