# 104-10121-10174

## Page 1

104-10121-10174*

5741

SPATCH

PROCESSING Al

MARKED FOR INDI XINIG

Clief, Far Irst Diviston

Chict, NODONE

13-7

Chict of Station,

NO INDEXING REQUIRIO

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

BYBAT FIDUST - CHILl - Lasage Eeport

DIREG - REFERENCES

3137

63.17

1855

C131

D:13:7

1563

0051

MICROFILM AF

03

•03Station has heçn airised

03-

03 and tuoy are currently resting an iotto

also advised that/

Pennsylvania.

TEB%.C.A. and bo assigaed

Jhopes to get employnant

• Caribbean erca.

classified project in tha

dansitive informacion

It 1s dirricult ta accertain how much, 11 any,

Inay have conveyed to g

the ten. and one half months l

Honcver, It has beon determined that during

Introduced her to the following WOrIu: personnel:

** 3

15tha

The following sore identified to her by

Das having worked upcountry in Imos with him: ther

30 бір

237

30. DirdS. ficri

OSS REFERENCE TO

nttachment:

1 - IDEN, USC/TWP

Distribution:

C/FE,

# IDENT USC/TED

1 = C/WORNE, # IDSH 13C/14P

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

-contlnued.

RETURNTO CIA

Backgrauna Use Only

-Do Not Raproduce

DATE

HOS FILE NUMBER

2%70

---

## Page 2

VISPATCH

MBOL 6'11

¿OININUATION OF

DISPATCH

іксп.:

од.

It should bo noted that l Jaraill was curveilled

Dy a Station ruzieillance tina o::

il occasions and ver

rcaorted to hive visited Irill.

¿excanization's Vien!!:

africane currently wader icycot

ten by this

Station. 13-7

duce

10x13, 7402 and @0171.50.)

Zeon _W. Alburdaa:

PYRAT

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMINT TO CROVT 7774

IDENTITILG

29

IDEN A -

---

