# 104-10092-10015

## Page 1

104-10092-10015

TO

PROM &

* Disco

MEXICO CITY

ACTION A

C/SAS 5 (SAS NOTIFIED

INtO

COPY SLOTIED IATO 31 DEC/MA)

SECRET 311642Z

IMMEDIATE WAVE DIR INFO PRIORITY MNTY CITE MEXI T37I

3IDC#890084

RYBAT TYPIC

REF MEXI 1518 (90076)

1o AT THIS TIME (I0DB LOCAL) STATION HAS LOST CONTACT ITH SUBJECT•

FOLLOWING IS SEQUENCE OF EVENTS.

2. EVENING 30 DEC SUBJECT WAS GIVEN DOWN PAYMENT OF 51, S00 DOLLARS.

HIS LUGGAGE WAS REMOVED FROM MOTEL AGNES WITHOUT INCIDENT. A

SUBJEETS

CZECH WALTHER AUTOMATIC LOADED WITH NINE CARTRIDEES WAS REMOVED FRON I

LUGGAGE BY LITEMPOS. BARKER PURCHASED TICKETS IN ALLAS FOR UNTY

FLIGHT OBBE MORNING 31 DEG. PLANNEN IRMEDIATE DEPANTURE WAS AT

SUBJECT'S REQUEST. BARKER AND SUBJECT SPENT NIGHT AT SAFEHOUSE.

EITHER DARKER OR CHOADEN WERE WITH HIM AT ALL TIMES AND HE DID NOT

COMMUNICATE WITH OTHER PERSONS. MIS MAND BAG GIVEN TO MIN BUT

REMAINING THREE PIECES LUGGAGE RETAINED. MORNING 34

DEC SUBJECT AND BARKER DEPARTED FOR AIRPORT. SUBJECT ABRUPILY ANNOUNCED

THAT ME WOULD NOT GO AIRPORI, BUT WISHED REMAIN MEXI. FOR SEVERAL

BLOCKS ATTEMPTED STEP OUT OF MOVING AUTO, REFUSED EVEN GO TO

AIPPORT DESPITE PROMISE ME WOULD NOT ME FORCED TAKE FLAGE.

FINALLY LEFT CAR BUT AGREED WOULD MEET BARKER AND CHOADEN AT COFFEF

RETURN TO CIA

SECRET

Background use bY-

•Do Not Reproducet-

REPDOOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OPTIC I PROMIANED

Copy

#: 15322

---

## Page 2

CARRIED M

SHOP LOCAL HOTEL AT 0899/05

AND RELEASE BECURITY DETAILE

NOT SHOW AS OF 99450

LUCASE SXt

PRELIMINARY INSPEOTION REVEALS NOTHINO OTIA TIME CAN

BINT ITY

NEW CLOTHES AND ONE HALF MALRIE-TALKLE SETS

3.

SUBJECT BELIEVES HIS CONVERSATION ITH STATION A MAT

SO WE HOST BEATEN IN IRONTE DAISETA STEPS NEERUCE CITE

REMOVEO TROM HOTEL BY POLICE TYPES.

* 10*1

STATION MAKING EVERY ATTRUPT RELOCATE

SECRET

3 0240

INSENSE

TOORE ATE

adianta

sue dod.

1522

..."

it's:

SECRET

15322

Dull

---

