# 104-10119-10316

## Page 1

104-10119-10316

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

1O MAYTZ

SUBJECT

FILE NUMBER

HUNT, EVERETT HOWARD, JR."

23500

On this date d' secured a call fron Martin,.

Lukoske, CCS/ CCB. He asfre me

to identify

a his by true some the Ogency emplogee who

Rock in the post exterowly wed the pen-som

*the Afterco

on the Silent. (Lutchis destified l Get on Itond then t

but the at an a the the a set us,

but did not explain the seed on

questa.

butial os Indices seanh isceded no second of

David ft. phon, and numeros files in the namer

a tini 3 Given and In Hunt

I consulted pharmally with Id dayle, SIS in hye thie

Agency eagloyees whose works.

Lagle recalled from seme

writter seral.

the pen-some

intet of the

FORM

7.62 | 954

CLASSIFICATION

GROUP 1

EXCLUDE PONTATIC

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproauce

(40)

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

10 May 72

SUBJECT

FILE NUMBER

HUNT, EVERETT HOWARD, JR.

23500

a series sinclar to the

se for hate presting a proll to t

of the Ggency

The progest had, boyle said, ban unher the

one of CI Stoff. It hak oot, he nted,

proves vey successful.

Select fil alecte that de retice 30 qie 1970

Howar Staff as a Consultent to Prendent Ripon in

connetia will the Prodents Chisia Trig.

bismuch in fleet had written under the

guidause of CI boff, fagle adores appinet ident.

I called Mr. Luboskie on Red Line 1978. In hi

absenced advise Cles, lis scouting, th

that d dis

OFFICE AND TITLE

FORM

7.62 | 954

CLASSIFICATION

GROUP 1

DECLASSIMICATIO:

140)

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION

DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

FILE NUMBER

HUNT, EVERETT HOWARD, JR.

23500

not have the anthrity to identify Dave It

at so time die I identify fleet as the maen of

The jeer-nome Doind ft. John.

OFFICE AND TITLE

19/1F Legion.

"ORN

8 - 62

1954

SIGMATURE

CLASSIFICATION

GROUP 1

CLUDED FROM AUTOMAT

(40)

---

