104-10308-10144| 7 - - an : .
oo Oe eee 2
ites rn Cis So C

RETURN To ci
Background Use i nh
eet : Do Not Reproduce
15 February 1962

mae

aK We
es cd :
MEMORANDUM FOR: The SogrdS{ a :
FRO 2 Jos
BuRJECT : Aldo Pedro MARGOLLES y Buenas and Emtiio bcaieeiataae 5

Navarro (201-274644)

: 1. We have received informatian from the Moxican Inmicration
Service stating their records reflect that Aldo Pedro*MANGOLLES y.  ~
Duonas and Eniiio ARAGONSS y Navarre sought political asylum at
the liexican Embassy in Mavana in mtd 1957. Both the Subjects
‘arrived in Hoxico by air 27 June 1957 as political refugees from
- the BATISTA Regime, These sane recoxyds do not indicate HARGOLLES
an ':° has left Mexico since his arrival. ARAGONES departed Mexico 5. -
ee January 1359 and there is no indication iad he returned to -
Hoxico.

3,  HARGOLLES was narricd ‘to varia “fel Carron CLARE Garcia,
a Cuban, on 26 July 1957. Tho parrisge certificate statos Carmen
/ > was eighteen vesrs old at the time of thoir marriage and lived at
pac Division del Norte 24, Hexico, D.F, She was born in Cientucgos
feo Las Vilias, Cuba. Her parents names are listed as Jorge CLARK
| Claxk and Josefa GARCIA, beth residing in Cienfuegos. :

: -- 3. The files of this office reflect ho information regarding:
. Maria del Carmen CLARE Garcia, Jorge CLARK Clark or Josefa GARCIA. -

ae 4, "Attached you wihl find 2 newspaper clippings, two articles
ee ‘ regarding ARANGONES and one. regarding MARGOLLES.

: & The files; of this oxx¥ice reiiect no other Ant
on MAKGOLLES, other. than the rman SACGPL that anformation
- received from your office. :

wo | | —.
