iod0219-40138

i ‘
&. DIB 40967, 25 May 196)

‘ &, SLE uZ76, 31 Mey 1961 §
€, SUBY Oc81, 12 Jung 196). ee

Tre attached menorandam provides inforuntion guthered by Lage
daring two cosversations with Hiss Wary L. FINAN os 18 eed” ~
TOSI at tho Likuni mission ee.r Lilongwe, ityaseland,

2. ScbJoct was cooperative exd apyecred to be forthright fo providiag | '
Saformatios om her very linjte@ acquaiatesce with I¢cn A of Bef. 8. me
20m fmiressed that tha bed been scayht oot is the middle of newitste, ton

thegsend miles from hoce, and wildly cooretned, though not paculy:

. 3. Subject suld che bad first heard of Idap A's flight fee tetser ~~
fro her wotber lest August, Her wottar had also written that she b-2 tees
epyroschsd officially fo Yeskiagtoa im coanection with Subdject*s karsieg ":
Iden A. Sabjoct sald she hed written her mother with all the detoils cm
could rearsber but did not know whether they hed in fact beea peared atenye ¢

. 4. Ricgreckice] data « Sobjeat said that Wostingtes, B.C. bod ty
been ter home, She way torn there In J935 and user t9 sehood thers,
St. Aatbory's, Sho them attended Cothsilc Osiversity whare she cam!

her courses {2 the nursing schoo! ix June 1953, Pollowing ber gradasiicn,

Ste worked at the Providence Hospittd ia Yashiagton esti] Jase 1959 wkce
tock & sazser job as @ arse at Cam: Aedrescoygia wear Lewisten, Mains.”
Stertisg in October 1959, she workers st Children's lespital fm feetiryioas
About tho end of 1989 she deciéed ¢: ould Like to enter eisstoe work abrist \.
wud begen teking evening coubses ai ts Wownn Voleutesrs Aszeciatiod, La-s4fte”
Residence, 16th Street, N. . (Tea ddross of the oryeriactias bon :
Gariag the past year.) In midwl96@ vie egiled oa the Erinenta fess ©
to Venice end thea on the Afriza te Evirs, Kozsmbaque, acd ey t
Kysaelend, bir companion on tha trip and present kousenate is ap
Catholic aurso cased Lonise COFFMAN from Custerlasd, knrylead. 5:
hever traveiled eatside tke U. S$, praviously eith tha exception of a rae *t.
visit to Cameda, She now plass to'reeala at the alssion im Ayaselon¢ eztil .

steels ode ee ce eee eels fae eeaeeet ee eeeeeete

1983,

bern naan orl ma oe

Jobo BD. mui

pee .n hltlosurecs Pp uuu tesa tea
L. Baport ov Kite Finasts tnowledge -
. of Ides Ae (3 eoptas)

4, Bisa Plaea's totter (1 eapy? 086

Diatetouston
Af, ait



Subject:

1.

: RYBAT ‘i

‘| a
“ SECRET a
? Faye 1
«  engdogyre Se. Pte anon 33

diss mary L. Fidas’s Acquaintance «ith Iden A of Bld s4te
tail Idens aeyed to sare kel.)

Sabject wrote the following concerning Ler acquaintance with Iden As

“I have beep asked by| to recount any coetact J have
ha¢ with {I¢en a/. 1 am perfectly «illing te do this, ey only
regret being that ay sole contact with the ean is vayse fn all
respects.

“As I receit, in the fall of 195%, I was invited by {Idea 67 to attend
a small informal pagty. accepted the invitation anc was called

for ut ey hoo by {Iden P) and her escart, (Iden C7, we went fo

the home of Iden U/ 10 the zow block of Taylor St., 8. B. {Iden 7
and another person, a yooth of slost 2u years «hose 1 dont
Teromber, weat to the party with us, we traveled in /Icen D's/ cor.

“Enroute to {iden A's] home, we were Involy-d in @ einor accident oe
41 St., 8. c. between South Dakota and ime Island Aveones. No one
was Injured, and afte? _ghe cotails of the accident were straighteoed
out, we proceeded to Liden A's/ home, near Laurel, Maryiand.

“Laside the aforementioned people, another quest, 8 gen:lenon, wee
at the party: however, I do not recall his nome. 1 believe there
were no other guests.

"During the course of the evening, drinks were served, genera) cone
versation aas sade = 1 don't recall any porticular topics discussed =
we danced to records, Yooked at slides, and listened to the pieno and
violia, played by seabers of the group.

“After the asual courtesies of thanking the host for an esjoyable
evening and expressing the hope of seeing him again sozetine, the
guests departed, We arrived hone without further incidest.

°1 was contected at least once, an¢ perhaps twice, after this party

for another such gatherigg, but 1 was not able to Joim tte group agaie.
1 believe it was {Idea a/abo extended the later invitation. 1 think
the last contact that was eade xi jot jater than Janusry 1960,

"I should Like to state agein that I regret not being able to recall
with more certainty the iecidents relating to this aeting. However,
at the tine, it was an incidental social event and of coarse I had
Bo idea of the importance this ceeting would have fn the fatare.”

Bigned?

Mary L, Finas

piseee serene:


: mil AYBAT a
secket od
: Page &

oe,

&- Subject says that this was the oaly occosion that she was with
Wen A. Tf Iden A were at gathersays at Idea b's at the sacm time she
was, the Coes aot recail it. Sze did not attend a wrestling matck at the
YMCA with Iden A and to the best of her knowledge has sever been to 8
wrestling eaten.

3. Sabject met icea B threagh her neice who was in Subject"s class et
farsiag scdco} at Cattolie University. She subsequently saw Iden B frog tise
to trae but echibites wirtaally no knowledge of Iden C; she did not know bis
last mam, did not recsjnize it mies it was meationed and did not know ubat

be did for @ living. farther, she did not tie him together ja her thinking
witt Iden D whom she cidimow,

4. Subject does sot recall the nome of IdenD's friend who was the
a: . £5ftb fnéividaal wbo west in their car to the gathering et Iden A‘
does she know what bis tie was to Idsa D,

* 5S. To the best of Subjects recollection, the group of five she
travelled with were et I¢en A's from about 9 p.m. until sbout midsight.
AS she writes, they cetced, watebed slides (of the U. S. dest) and listened
to the piago aad violie = Iden A playing the foraor and Iden D the latter,
She does cot recall acy specific ceaversation oor any coments usde by
Iden A. Ste has no reccllections or impressions regarding hin, his ideas,
bis motivaticas, his iczology, bis conduct. [a fact, Idee A made such @
slight impression on ter that she didnot recognize his pic io the clipping
formerded by her mother and berely recollected the evening in question,

syreanes ot

6. AltSoagh she is uncertaia whether it was Iden A or Iden C who sebm
sequently invited her to another gathering, she believes that Iden A did so
om at Lrest one occasion. (She said this varies with her earlier recollection,

which she wrote in her letter to her cother, that it was Iden C who had done
80.)

&

7. Sabject believes thera were only seven people at Iden A's. She +
remeebyrs virtually po ¢etails conceraing the seventh person, the maa who
854 sot cove with het croup, She estinstes that ho woe aboat thirty and

frew comeets made durizs the slides the ad Idea A bed been acqssiated
whea both were out est.

. RYBAT

sSacreet

lveAy

ER RAROER IERIER R BO ee esc

4
4
