104-10400-10197

|
1
i
i
'
|
H

SUBJECr : Documertation Information

Fereon's Identity Iocumert (VID BA
SHETSL'S7VO ¥ O8SR LYA LIFTS BET GARTHDARETVA)
Case 4630

REFEXEMCE + Your Gral Request for T5D/AB Support on 20 March 1965

1. This menrent=a ond atteckment coufimes the infomation
to Mr. Inemoen ef sa/Cl by Mr. Bowenko ext Rr. Bagel

Panced verbally
Gf T5D/AB om 23 emi 25 March 1963. Mebeietlira_ jee dates

2. Plewse eign the attached Request for ToD/AR Support Pom
{D-208) end return to this office.

3. If 380/28 comments are being considered for further
@istribation, 4t in requested that the tranenitting correspondence
be coordinated with this office. ~

4. day quawtions om this matter ean be referred to Necars.
Bowexieo or Bagel, extension O554, 202 Uect Gut Baiaies

Setecknest: as stated

Pistribution:
Griginal anf l = Adtresme, v/att.

(PS AB Cese 4630, w/att.
1 - 4B File, w/att.

1 - AB Chrono, w/att.
BD/P/TSD/AB/1:D. Bowenke:prk



13-00000

attachment to: AB Mem Ho. 6794

!

ereas of the Soviet Union between 11 January

same (VID BA ZHEPEL'STYO V SSSR DLYA LIT BY GRAZHDARSTVA)
1 Merch 2960, snd on Limited docwesststion intelligemce

eee term mn eeiecitcaeniy coen perciie at Guaeatamcees yi
different

dE;
“Hilt

these e
ease.

2

Moscov, the area
on the use
in use has e ten-colored
iomtely B5xl22acs.
vents
worts VID
te
n
is @ rea,
the text
Printed in
other two
'GEVO BEXAR
inetractions
Suelated
bearer,
subject
then more

Aneed

Quly \three (3) ofthe available

iesued efter early 1957.

emplaxre
S> information is
4m Minsk.

S83 ul th ie

i ‘a

s

3"
il;

+3 |

me


SECRET

Attachment to: AS Memo Ho. 6794
. Rage -2

This documest is apperently useé to control the so-called =,
“stateless” (HEZ GRAPEDAESTVA) population of the Soviet Union. /
‘The term BEY GRAYEDABSTVA es used bere probebly means “without

6 ema 7 would be full vithin teo years, tims permitting emly one.
extension. fhe serial mmbers of when given es


SECRET

Attechment to: AB Memo No. 679.
Page -3

‘Ger serial euober furmished ty Hr. Duncen, BLUATy, of = soecow
iseeed VID BA DITEL'STVO V SSSR PLXA LITS HT GRAZHDANSTYA in

@. The following are the camtents of the 11 pages of
edhject Gocumnt in the onder they appear on each page:

Rage 1 - Wliéity; surmeme; first ames end petrongeic;

Photogregay +
over yhotogreghs an@ a line for besrer‘s
signetare. (some were not aigned).

Buta om the bearer. i
Bate of birth (either year ouly or cmpicte
Gxt).

Wace of birth.

Rakionsitty. :
thease emi dete teerer arrived in the UasR.
Pecfeenton end tyye of vark.

vryvp ope

|
i

SECRET



13-00000

SECRET

eignt (8) spaces per pege for extries,

B

ii

gash

A

fhe serie) meber also appears at the bottom

of page 5.

a

my
1

se


SECRET
Atvtechment to: AB diam Bo. 6794
Page -5
Pages 6 emi 7 - ave for quarterly registration entries.

Reers Band 9 - = re for norm ailitie or OVIR residence

Faeges 10 emt 11 -

(ote: some of these ontries

‘the gornek appears et the botten of
page 11.

emi cachets my appear on the wrong pags.)

SECRET

