104-10072-10313}

s SECRET
C (WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUGTIONS

— PRIOR TO FILING

‘TO: ACTION BRANCH

ard to RID.

2 Sect. 2. oa back. Detach back flap

If file no. and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

document to RID/AN

| RID/
j TO ALL ADDRESSEES
| a 7 of 7
‘ BLUSE, 29 DEC 197 ed tie Sc 4 avaee
me Pm ie pe: Ea) ib ope je
(2 | poses 50 Vp 4
z &
7 [ re eal de Greg
he j ~ ned or
A i (3 a fierce
( | | Bourn “70 ws.
Ss. 7 ~ t
| i
- os ———|
i i i
7 ,
j
(
: 3. ~ 7
‘ =
75, ;
¢ I Z | =
|
® - 7 JAN 19
nee 1974 Heypyp,
iz
its f
17. FILE TITLE,
TsS$¢3
=

lane 04087

BE 61oe

SECRET RET

aon

~ 9otoy


14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

Following recent visit, the Station had a much better
MECHAOS activities. This dispatch is a round-up of our most recent
against this target.

In a meeting with KRHOLLY/8 on 17 December, in addition to the
discussion and passage of information on the Soviet Bloc people,
presented KREOLLY/8 with a memo (based on Headquarters 776)
reouesting information on and lof the MHCHAOS group who were

tin vy Africa and were likely to visit Lagos. This was given after
had briefed KRHOLLY/8 on the

indicating the aivocation of violence of ea¢h group and the need forts to
xeep track of their external movements to enable_us to protect the stability
of our country as he was trying to do in his. app:

on the possi’

@ said that this would be a difficult problem because
as in other countries such as Italy, France,

then esked_ if he could, at a minimum, push for the
just as he did with the Soviets, since
sore cases the could present a threat to his country as

i as our own ari that by compiling such travel data and monitoring their
ties centrally, perhaps we would both benefit from the effort. He
would attempt to do what he could personally
his hierareh

is theme,
were in reality "Commnist
mand not for the Civil Rights Movement.
VE and told KRHOLLY/S that she had
ute for International Affairs; working for
ce; but that
rians and

ns’
mation on Ikoyi and also from the main offi
who were ost bly working . to help the W:

Continued...

pote

ia SPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER, DATE
ae anes ‘a ANLA-4097, 18 December 1970

| ‘CLASSIFICATION HOS File NUMBER

|

!srapnr/rvran



14-00000

¢

{ .CQNTINUATION OF

CORSSTFEATION [BISPATEH SYMBOL ANS NOWaER

es SECRET/RYBAT ANLA-4097

ing with them via Sam IKOKU and the Ministry of Info:
ers of the "Curiel Apparat" and were using Nigeria,
and eny other group or person, such as NKRUMAH, to furtheF T Commnistic

goals and that he would be well advised to look into the activities of these
and contacts, since they were undoubtedly involved in subversion and
g their jobs and assistence to the FMC as a cover for their real aims.
LLY/8 was aroused and said that he would definitely get onto this matter.
a volunteered thet a "Carmichael" had been in Lagos a few months ago
» upon questioning, he said he didn't know if it was "Stokely" or his
then told him that this was a case in point and that if
any system of monitoring these people he could help us run down kndwn
als, just as we would help them run down any criminals that landed in
country.

4, As noted above, KRHOLLY/8 seemed eager and willing to assist, but
it is dubious thet he will be able to make any real progress on his own or
convince his superiors to make a concerted and formal effort to provide us
with the information we would like to have, especially the follow-up locally
activities of MHCHAOS people when they arrive and start moving around
However, the initial reaction was positive and perhaps if we keep
ing away, we can make a break-through in this area.

5. feported that the Nigerian Charge’ ii Algiers hed been
involved with MICHAOS target personalities. Our records indicate the Charge’
at the present time is: James Duro Olufemi SOKOYA; born 1933 at Ojowo,
ebu-Igbo; one of ten Nigerians to attend a course for diplomats (Interne

ionel law and French lessons) in Geneva, based on a bilateral program for
technical assistance. SOKOYA was Assistant Chief of Protocol before his

pre: % assignment and, according to the LNCUFF Assistant Political Officer,
was very friendly and helpful to LNCUFF.

_ Lat

Use enevious

SECRET/RYBAT

