# 104-10229-10058

## Page 1

104-10229-10058

RESIORAWION POR THE FFOND

15 and 15 interces ted

Follano contace sten Sr. MU:O Carcera le 18.

co/all, and the andarsignal do che salin idiomiere Motel Trion ocal,

Palelaoro, about 1130 to abo:l 1i10 15 senteneo 19il, dio encicierai, on

Elo monane of 15 sorrenta:, 1.000 bi dolciono su tre collonini polsia

"es foward Motol (iora 502i,

ialeinoid.

ino neoro: gnud bagod die contort

NO CASA0b 2670 &1076a

AL BHLO.400, S:00 4.011.N0 11gH: 39es 81111 10

prinal: 1o, bocaso oi ina Cailortia factire, do va sopo

100:0 w111 roal1=51

(1) A conalda aila em 1 Involgon, airorai le recere

al varlo1s lorais,

and duvaral diiferunt inoige aro 1i-

volrad in anj dae: d!aio.

(2)

Approprlito casaiala lor rassing tho furco dill hara

to be vorked Ou3.

M0:0'8 seple on erla pelne, de ilven thronch Allor, vao :sa?

De Biouli roriBe the aJ06 of fLica du vo fouadn cesanty and

arcando che arerouriale channolo for trarani:ral

09523220

bo The Problem o? Judios and lamorgo solaio di tho ior ale

Troolen of 2no

3 Totata and maggio lo nion an trentuo imbia

lo unteh no anavis can hu cim laardisioly Aa analyalo ol

tho statua of the arion na no lico, indi i

mero nos incinied in tre ordind urli, la colli e ord a

50,058 18 27, 0010i dálai tho bese logarlie 17 6 109 5.

Upon recatçi al cale roport, io sinil lo la a position :o :0es

Lo a deciolora

AHAPOR, sao 600t he bad: dor Coli i tie voublog in e molino en

J Sautater, tha: a soli lea had 100: arriva ai coramie the

siges and lawyere.

bul sien presed for debalis by tua sdareigied sole, rot, or

---

## Page 2

nin paied thai ho vouli relin si

ol cho labico ani Laniera idiore ho luit.

• Perina, Contace for du

AVARi das Gole, that col, dendoia

rotra, en orestandine san of wido ailitar

and political acarienco, had boar dealanalad ao pirient eor

Race for MIRO and inni Colo Johnoss soulo diso bo lia froquent

Johnson vag nou in tha proccos

of novina do Mand and concot le:uco: Min and MInO Molo to

orahlishod within da days lo tuo vida.

sabialaction al tho acrinnalion of Cal. doirin

a0 cartaceo

Tho undera gnad reto tal te slova to ii/avio selloulou Ua cono

rarsation.rrth Alü and, at moit 1530 li do coster,

epiln oco.u with

alla, mio maa medal la tho des licaard dorol (Roca 502), lallbero, eo

adiao hla ao "ühi of tho folling concerning the abbasil le udies

su axioce so vori out duralla io croulia ir. MiNO or hia

designea, 45,000 for che jadges and Laugers for ero denin

of Augual 1901 and 15,000 les cha unner of intender 1261,

da

Me had bosn proposine to rodine die naria of judges and

lavyora already ai the llat and 1% was no8 kDs rascors!billi:

to maio the asiation of tie tirges and latyera sia vure to to

pald sroa the funda to be place al nia aloçonal.

The aranaletan al control and rayaons of una luigios and ingera.

PrUa ALdiAL tO MEi sOulE dvo lo de sorkod oue aioochiy end

vithout rancor by dino degrito lie purooral faolinia of tiFo

CONArdS ALABAU, ainco 18 ma nocossary to avold 1af1 tire an

reerisination enten vili recone o ua and attrace jullle nocleo,

1s clasheo le so panlselly, sapore so the luiguo and lawjera

would save to ti nichiran.

Tho judges and

innaro toup l9 anurloi to ingago li coalelro

ectlvitles and all action prosrato Involaia; Che mila hara to

lo ducalited lo the non concaci for ajrroral. Il ;ostelro

prograra ars not dovei-jos, the fucios and dardire ca.n0t ax-

peet continaing sur: cre.

lo not a collet organication and sono ai lla maniers sho sy

anod joho ahouli Locs to li- for pooltira or indr. dially

cout malamant.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

to. 9170 and his ancouraço ahoali not lalk Incleoria catoly

ant lousali atoni cool nation el ino nea contacò, col,

donnnon, but phodle haid li clorid, rot altasitln: usadlontly

ne a irons : alilleal

Dr. AlAüCH siutier de and MID har 81y Manciono on ile forc.

poine and afon caillis hack do Adiel: ves tilil chat lie 309

arly one giestlin, baitter da coul. aceit 15,000 sor the digit

and Lanyore 1or Augal, nd tha Baso arouas for bu condir.

FIRO

and to conversatlon ander.

The imeras med enen adulesd

of the upahse of ine correreatlona os lo ie, tochur.

R. Go CHAS: KLAIN

WW/TO/B

---

