04-77 40447

k,
i
i

&

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 4 NOVEMBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: BOMRING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8
NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES, 007.6,
1976, NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CURA -
West INDIES

FRI FILE.NO: NONE GTy

(CABLS FROM DIRECTOR,
FRI)



rset







i









OUTGOING,

arama cemermune ome

OnF. 0 oO oO a

SECRET
STAFF oLg034Z DIRECTOR $0826
<Q nen pisseit ors
cowl he ro: mu . Leases
/ ly : : OD sive PER

: [I Dens #
TO: UH. id .
REAM ¥ : : :
REF? Ut j@eea. [1x aly

' 2. -H@S TRHACESSo: :

[-Jrecrurten dec bs FOR USE AS MHAPRON RECRUITER. HE RECEIVED :

AGENT AND TEAM TRAINING YHICH INCLUDED DEMOLITION. [— JAS.
. ee
TERMINATED 3% DEC bh DUE TO INABILITY TO ESTABLISH LOCATION OF :
“OPERATIONAL, CONTACTS: Fo | :
2. NO CURRENT INFO ow
3. FILE: 2031-33403). €2 IMPDET.d -

ware:
conic;
unr:

EXT:

2_AUGUST 3974

TALG

C/SH/COG

REPROGUCTION SF OFHG8 THAN TPE 15%

neriee Ss PONITED

D1O33408).

£20 wippsr
CL OUY: ygysgs

565



mirecouc rion ey ores ra:
rasuing Oovies 18 pROWaITEE

ACTION UNIT

ACTION @

INS ;

T 38114. -€1AY97 PAGE @1-a1
sauna WMIM 22236

*. tor1312¢202 ui 74

SECRET 3119102 JUL 74 STAFF
CITE wu p2ese LENNES ACTING?

. TO: DIRECTOR,

REAM :

Tas rerman

_ GUBAN EXILE MILITANT. GROUPS, |
2. FILE: DEFER, 2 IMPDET

‘[pRECORD cory | _.
pee oitoilag|
SIMUL. 74



FBT DOCUMENT |
DATE: 26 gULy 1974

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN’

suBJECT:
FBI FILE NO: 105-1953 (MIAMI)



FET bocuseNr %

DATE: 9 JULY 1974

CIASSIFICATION:

SIUO

FRI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (CABLE FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI)

FIOSION IN FRONT OF CUBAN
> PARIS, FRANCE, JULY 3, 7!



XN

:
ew
CABLE SEC OtSSEM Ov ZR rem yoran comes Lh = _aw
: _. marmoouction ay ormea va
pensopiunit noribven. sEcRET os Misuine orvice ta paonunirae
a ISTAFF

Layo

uke s.ornen pyar ae i
‘Genelia = ’ (oe

ara Pr a =

b>

1 3¢61ae So EtA797 PAGE gi-oa IN 321933
ee :
aoe & TOR13120202 JUL 74 WHIM 22236
<<
SINE elles
S QU RTE T Stivsez suL 74 STAFF
~ '
CITE WH, 22236 . ] :
TO: DIRECTOR, ote !
fr 4 f
REAM pi 33 ‘

1. “FBIZMIAMI REQUESTS TRACES ON|

JHAS BEEN ACTIVE IN SEVERAL

CUBAN EXILE MILITANT GROUPS, 7
2, FILE: DEFER, €2 IMPDET

SECRET


"6

z Bow “
a 5 &

a &
Pa thea a
ia nS s
s $
5 a
&

i i
: e



FBI LOCUMENTS:

DATE: GMARCH 1974
CIASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT:

FBI BILE NO: 105-21595 (MEANT)

DATE: 13 FEBRUARY 1974

CIASSIFICATI NONE GI
SURJECT: DIRECTORTO Ri
FBI FILE NO: 105-2020:

(aur)

16 JANUARY 197%

DATE:

CLASSIFICATION: _ CONFI:

SUBJECT:

FRI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MEANT)



re

-~







(aes eee

T 1b 29

a CUBAN“ MASTER LIST NO 19 B GROUP 1 BIRTH MO YR
ee gue eater acegucenaeauegansaudtasscas ceoaztoaeaeas sasresaccougeccu cats

a
a SEPCEDCTISETISEMMTTOTSSIOIESTORSTIESITSSTTESTICIITIC EMT Iii tT

ini
FEEIECMEEEECELSESLSCOOSESSCECCLESCLSILESSECISEeeeereeeceeeeeeceeecessrerticeeeey

7 eMOMVDRTH | VVTVEAGAIITIIIINT F2GIINIITTIITIZITIT $997II 29797IITITIIIIII
AUCE Uae Caen

POUUEEESTOOECCMMETOCISCLSOC MEIC Ce?

£ OcRCOSESEEEELED
SL SSSSSSSSSSSSTS, SHOSPSSSUNSSSS SS SSH Ss aSSSgSSS SoSS OSSD ESS sseassaasesssassass

 GROCRGEOSSOSCEESEORGESCCEEESSOSSS GOSEESEGCS ESSESEES A seeeceens

fie ELE
i SED
: pt de

sevsagses

AgaaSsuseaissaytssaags a 93

sag

.
J

43
=
oe
t
N
U
\
Wal
Q
e



FE CRI
(ahem Felted tmy

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SuBseCT OF DOLLMENT

CSCUMLNT IDENTIFICATION

B T
AL FILE NO. {

Wr OisPATeN oa sauRCE GOey ve a STE

tes, To 3auReE CaTP TTA a DATE OF TAT Fr rreercarry

Ta. are paocesste

ros orssiwiwatee ai

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
fi. Goss AtreaRED TO tid FICE

1a, Teansrenaeo 10
a FILE WO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

TZERE IS A LF. O% THS SUBJECT

Gr TRIS 201

Oct, 19657 pos

is Al

OF TEIS 201

Spperract FILE SLIP G8)
ourTe pRtvious « STRACT

i
i
d
4

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867 cae ssviees aortvonn. SECRET

(rae






SECRET

REQUEST FOR CAKCELLATION

TO:

Tien ve TE

5 COT OO TT

pacer eh T FROM? (Bivivvemy ¢G PETTPTSY
ee LW /COG/C1CS £08

Wane s wawt (Pita, ceed oF Tree acy be ward

Date oF alate

PACE OF Bien

Riasowcay Faw Canceucation

““Subgect is no longer of Operational interest to the Station.

REF; UFGA-26926, 8 February 1967

AOo/- 3340 §7

Tore

rr
14_ February 1967
Ir susyscr 13 Use

Sateen : SECRET



RJULING ANU KEQUKD SHEET

and lorw “AIDS 3 1
Destroy ithe ven) malt Wet ‘Boas
signficant action taken of comments requit~
ing preservation

It fle no, and title showa are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN

SaSFER TRE RS

FROM:
aip/ AN
TOUAL ADORESEEES
Fil Heron Tov ence we apenoninte
coments
\ :
\
\
a4
T° es a
Te pef
(ail [ese : ie
re a
cues ef Abend
4
rs : y
aHl/ne CA -
= 7
rs
7. Hi [
3
2. =|
ia 4
7
z
iz
Tz
is
16 se |
7 : me ae
RID, FI i
Tt HORT REET CSTE
| aéaitss | Poo | 2ei- 334 081
BATE ROFL MES “TESTUWERT BATE POSuTENT wUMEEe “|
, { -
j@ -Feb. 1967 ee 20526
ascsiiees i —

SECRET


SECRET

ieee 334081
1

vow Save Teeren!

{
|

TRE OF wi

Cereresmar

wafceatr7eo-us
(yes ee pendeaa)

Coustey cucecaTer segtes

Se or FD

tom

veer occur!

Tancuace

Vacetac status
“[Cancuae

Cascuace

7 Ser ree-counTaY waanen OF envice incuusive eates

Gountay asta weowueeee center Toone

ToncTvonts) Peavoruce Fon AGENEY @ oe
a

Fenetiontsl Pearonuco For actney (Hale te 62 epaces)
1

contmacT Ewruoree Tree Curcovee JEONTRACY EMPLOVEE WIFE FULL, PART TONE
J ree acne ov wae

fcninteuancesseovice lcnsactar taoreretaty Ga wo¥s IBY caecta cent
K

- met

Fico aeear lnos. Fe 08 ose TmoePEnoEnT CouTAneTOR wetraon

Percrerrersererrors eon Tang stare teeanance Gro
M

ras cow evENT FESPONEELE vaca station wearonsince | Prone joven
at

Twtey ow cure Gare

[eae ast Fav cance

Fant oF a aetiatuts Fem >

eeciry (iia

Te 67 epacee)

BATE TeRwinavee

31 December, 1966

i

‘Stare celvene space

CC

REWARCs (re teraination, ete.

) (ied ee

aTrivece,

Tere

anes 2457
att 93% UFGA-2b926

Gest



ts,

AiCH [es
eae aaa:

Chief, WH Division acieereeee

ination of Subject of 201-934081_

TET PeGUIRED MEFERERCAT af

Action Required: Cancel OA and MOC

Transmitted herewith are copies of the Agent Service
Record, Damage Report and Form 2457 on Subject, who was

terminated 31 December 1966, due to an inability to establish the

location of operational contacts,

a Lia gH G fact fr
Philip G, ELMARD ©

Attachments: #1 - Agent Service Record 2cys h/w
#2 - Damage Report 2cys h/w
#3 - Form 2457 2cys h/w

Distribution:
3-- WH/COG w/atts #1,#2 & #3 b/w

FEB ~3 OF
201-334 08i

3 atts aE

‘Grae erEmENCE TO RENTER WaaaL WO UNSER ware
| UFGA- 26926 6 February 1967

BaSSrICATION Pies re semen

SECRET 201~-334081
t .



~ : Att, #1 to UPGA-26926

SECRET

AGENT SERVICE RECORD

2. Agent's cryptonym or, pseudonym:__AMLUNT-2 “es.

2, Project identification: ~~ ayrruyK : it E :
3, Agent recruited by:__| :

Planned to use him as‘

4. Capacity in which agent served:
MHAPRON-Recruiter
Gross_$331/Month-$279.40/Month (Net)

5. Rate of pay:

6. Other Commitments: None

7. Agent dismissed by: "

8. Reason for dismissal:__Inability to establish location of
eee een UTEEUTTY RITEETGTTTIT

operational contacts. --- -.,

9, Security risks?. Subject received some Agent and Team

Training, but there are no unusual security risks.

10. Is agent recommended for re-use: Yes - When and as

operational situation requires.

Manner of dismissal: Amicable - Subject given 2 months

il;
notice during which he was free to seek other employment,
12, Letter of termination signed: Yes

: SECRET

ad. #1 & UFGH=2L92b CS Copy 201-3340)


fama) i 4 2. #2 to UFGA-26926

“a
v-
SECRET
DAMAGE REPORT
NAME: AMLUNT/2 Last date SGSWIRLED: ~ 12 January 1966

Safehouse and Training Areas Exposed/Cover Companies Exposed

S/H #206
: #296 :
#316 : " :
: #328 ‘
Bde #342 it i
Firing Range
Maritime Training Site
Red Sunset Enterprises, Inc.
Isolation eae
Isotropic ' . .

Indigenous Agent Personnel Exposed

~ AMAKA-1 . ~ True Name

AMSTALK~1 - True Name

AMTRUNK-21- True Nane oa
AMTRUNK~-24- True Name .
AMAROMA-2 - True Name

AMTRUNK-7 - Alias

AMRIB=1 - Alias
a AMSKIRT-1 ~ Alias i
. AMHINT-56 - Alias

‘ AMLILAC-28- Alias

ad tad urea-acqae 08: COPY acy 38409}



: SECRET

Operational Areas Exposed
¢

None

Loading Sites and Vessels Exposed

None :
:

E \
Internal Assets Exposed “~
i
None as
a .



ad

SECRET

Indigenous Instructors Exposcd

ANSWING=1 *
ANTERRY-1*
ANHINT~-18
AMUINT-19
AMTABBY-56
AMCLEVE-6
AMPHODAREH-11



‘Relatives 1a WOLADY

Wife

Daughter

Relatives in PBRUMEN

Brother

Sister

COMMENTS

None —~



AUVs AND HEQUKU SHeRl

PRIOR TO FILING _
= Sect 2. on

RID!

¢

Detach back flap,

If hie no ead tile shown are nof*pt
insert proper fle no below and forward
document to RID/AN

dito RID.
cover sheet unless it records

Gn dacs 7 APPROPRIATE

|

i WERSFR EEO

187194

‘Serna



7 2
Be
fe

Attachment to UFGA<-25747

SECRET.

AMENDMENT TO MEMORANDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT

TO “: Chief,

WH Division

FROM : Chief of Station, JHWAVE

SUBJECT: 9 Amendment to Memorandum of Oral Commitment
for 201- 334081 5 ( AMLUNT+2

Flease amend Paragraph 4°of the Memorancum of Oral

Commitment for Subject to reaa as follows:

4. COMPENSATION. Effective 1 May 1966, Subject
will be paid compensation at the rate of

£23 per month. Such payments ta be
tate

service.

REVIEWED:

Group 1 - Exclucec

‘ollowing completion of satisfactory

SIGNED:

© montracting Officer
/

el~ 334 OS]
from Automatic Lowngrauing & Leclassification

pean


ere : ATTAcHanT #2
ish) S-E+C-R-E-T

201-23 Yea

TRAINING REPORT

TEAN/CROUP: PBRUMEN: II LL day - 13 August 1966
(_212_hours, full-tine) (Pate,

Student: FELIPE

a

cass

j ‘This course is design to train indigenous personnel in paramilitary

resistance activities ani intelligence collection cperaticns in denied
areas. Approximately 70% ef the student's time is devoted to practical .
Work and field exercises ext 30% to the thecretical aspects essential for
@ logical understanding ani epplication of training covered during the

course.

SB_OBJECTIVE AND CONTENT

FERFCRMANCE EVALUATION
*U-- Unsatisfactory Perfarmence is so low in relation to requirements
of the work as to be unequivocally below windmum
atsnisnis,
Achieved minimm standards, but less than adequate
(in terms.of indigenous personnel participating in
the program).

W- Weak

A - Adequate Has ecuieved the basic level required. Satisfactory,
characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence,

P = proficient More then satisfactory. Has acquired a solid
Degizzer's proficiency, This rating may be
intergreted as representing "eversge” on our rating

> scale.

Excepticnal proficiency, characterized by thorough-
ness, initistive, originality, and an exceptional
studext understending and application of paramilitary
resistence activities,

S ~ Strong

Performance is so exceptional in relation to require-
ments cf the work and in comparison to the performance
of other students doing similar work as to warrant
specisi recognition,

’ = Outstanding

Ee : = * Modification of the Office cf Treining standerd reting scale at the
specific request of JMWAVE,

S-E-C-R-E-T



S-E-C-R-E-T

1, MAP READING (ABILITY TO REPORT LOCATIONS
USING GRID COORDINATES)

2, ‘NAUTICAL CHARTS
3. WEAPONRY (U,S, & FOREIGN)

4, CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT

5. RESISTANCE ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS
6. AMBUSH TACTICS AND OPERATIONS .
7. RAID TACTICS AND OPERATIONS :
8. CACHING

9. CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT LINES (z)

10, OBSERVATION AND REPORTING TECHNIQUES
11. LEADERSHIP TRAITS AND CAPABILITY

12. OPERATIONAL PLANHING ABILITY

13, SKETCHING

14, SABOTAGE (SEE ATTACHED. STB REPORT)

15. ‘TARGET PHOTOGRAPHY

26, AIR RECEPTION ACTIVITIES

11. WEAPONS QUALIFICATION Pistol
(TEST RESULTS ATTACHED)
Rifle
SMG

OVERALL PERFORMANCE __

bh

:

LPPPRL EE |
i

Ie
4
F

See Comments

Non-Applicable.
Marksman,

—Markenen__

RATING LETTER,

Rating taxes into account trainee's effectiveness, such as performance”

in operational skills, tactics, techniques, leadership, plenning, teamwork,

motivation and limitations.

2

S-E-C-R-E-T


S-E-C-R-E-T

The ratings above, and narrative copments hereunder, are derived from a
synthesis of all cvaluations submitted on each respective trainee by the
instructor staff,

Overall performance ratings of all students in this class were as follows:

WEAK__0__ ADEQUATE_“G__ PROFICYENT__6 _ STRONG_O__ ouTSTAMDING__O

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

FELIPE was handicapped to some degree by his weakness in English
Language. FELIPE's attitude throughout the course was cooperative and
congenial. His participation in lectures, plans, and field exercises
suffered from a lack of concentration and thoroughness. He appeared to
have only a partial grasp of many of the topics presented, He was
inclined -to rush a bit in planning exercises and was also somewhat
hasty in hia “exécution of field work (Mapping, Recons, tactical movement
in Raid and Ambush Exercises),

In hie leadership assignment, he planned reagonebly well, but his
execution of the plan was weak and he lacked good control of the group.

FCR THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING:
PREPARED BY: APEROVED AND FORWARDED:

8/30/66
Project Ofricer Chier Instructor ~ Date

S-E-C-R-E-T


| SENET

_  FILIPE - Filipe has had no previous demolition training but indicated he
: ae had worked with explosives Hie practical
work was a little sloppy, not from lack of care but because he was
not able to work too well with his hands, The practical work did
7 “ not show any progress from commencement to completion of the
i .* course but his placements were well made and effective. He seemed
to understand all subject matter covered and always answered test
type questions correctly. Whenever crimping detonators, ‘his hands
were very shaky but he did not seem to be nervous at any other time
i during the course. Close supervision was required when he was
crimping detonators, He was a cooperative, interested student
who reacted well to correction, He seemed to enjoy the training
and offered several new methods of attack based on personal experience.
Filipe was rated overall as proficient,



{7 stor gy eee 10 men fi wo
MESSAGE FORM Ht
Tormu comes: / ZEROS A WELKA,

Oimoex
Ri no noex
Kewcin cs eae

yo: SMWAVE
FROM ECTOR
eur twror_VA_y Pia
10 WAVE INFO

TYPIC ANTRUNK CONNO

REFS; A, UFGW-5824+ 7

: B, UFGA-24588+*
: a i
OA GRANTED AMLUNT/2 ON 8 FEB 66. WAVE ADVISED REF A, AMENDED

PER REF B, :
END OF MESSAGE

WEH/C/Conments: *Advised WAVE OA granted A/2,
**Amend POA to include commo,

DOl- 334651
-| Mor GG

i c/wusc/no [ (phone)

wah

070-40 Kpone)

C/¥HD : A/DCWHD/C

COORDINATING DEFLCERS
Sew T AurHenricaring 7

orricen WA
coy my

RELEASING OFFICER j ey SECRET |

Is PROMIBITED,

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE



SECRET

BOL No, 334081

HEMORANOUA FOR: Chief, WB/G/RR/OR— |
wufe, Ppt

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of.

—AMUNT/2_ = for the purpose specified in your request

dated__as follova ————*
Subject 's OA is herewith amended to permit commo training as

requested in your memorandum of 24 Februaiy 1966.

Silt bbe

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information aveileble to this
Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and C3I-F 10-5.

CI/OFERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPFORT DIVISION

Date:__28 February 1966 dir

Distribution:
Ovig. to Addressee

1 to Files

ye 33 ¢ah/

SECRET

omy lea



ND RECORD ‘SHEET

7

STWaCTIONS

“TOU ACTION BRANCH

1 Fil in Sect. 2 on back Detach back fap

2 Deatey Bid doeellattett RRs records

stanifcant pith takea or comments requit-
ing preservation

document to RID/AN.

ff hle no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no below and forward

BROPER FILE WOT

FROM:
nips AY eae
\ a
\ Souuenrs
rol
ro 8 et eee et
- WHICIES | 3 les
be Ghee
ulPe
= zee
L ww (Ror le Ufsle ate,
a fl yf ,
. | Ciwe/ss \ ‘tren bgt Beta del
. : Er saat,
| table baile Maa
—_ -
cm/s eo lair.
L ia ‘s e/)
= face
Metest | At Qk Tay atghh
Sa eASACIEE josrererante oo scene
25 ph 6G |
! fen eats

SECRET


GaSorRaTR

Chief, Wit

co

= BH
Chief of Station, JMWAVE i

‘wuancl' YPIC/7OPERATIONAL
0 Transmittal of Memorandum of Oral Commitment for Identity A

RENON REQUIRED REFEAGNCES
Action Required: FYI

Reference ? DIR 60919, 26 November 1965

Transmitted herewith are three (3) copies of Memorandum of
Oral Commitment for~Subject of 201- 334081. Identities are being

sent under separate cover, The effective date of the oral

contract is 1 February 1966.

Attachments:
1 ~ MOC h/w

7 enw
“22 Iaentities u/s/e ATT? Rel

-Distribution:
3 = WH/C w/att #1 b/w and #2 u/s/e

eS copy rE 25. 1968
16 Feb 66 | _
SeaTen S8e ANO NER
UFG{- 24567
ARTSSTRE aor
Trg

SECRE @ 201-334081







SECRET

24 Februnry 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: GuSseiynCE4OA
SUBJECT: AMLUNT/2
201-334081

1. It 4s requested that Subject's OA be amended by
28 February 1966 to permit commo training. 7

2. Please advise|_____————ibxtension 7646, when

the amendment bas been approved.

a

Acting Deputy Chief,

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1, = WH/C/RR/OS
el ~ 201-334081

rset


en

>

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

2 Destroy tront cover sheet, unless i records
2 sigmiticant action taken or comments requir

ing preservation

document to RID/AN *

fle no and tile shown are not proper.
insert ptoper hie no below and forward

FROM:

"Ae

TASREU PE
?

7S Aut ADDRESSEES

Ful in SECTION | ON BACK 1 APPROPRIATE

‘Couvants

4a

SETTER

VFGH 24588



aaereanon

“CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE _

Baer TYPUC/ OPERATIONAL AMTRUNA7 COMMO
> REQUEST AMEND AMLUNT-2 POA |

ACTIN PLQUBLD RUERENCLE :

PLEASE AMENO POA BY | MARCH 1966

A. O1R-50920, POA GRANTED SUBJ, 15 GCT 65

B. UFGA-24438, PRQ PART II FOR SUBJ, 2 FEB 66

PLEASE AMEND POA FOR AMLUNT~2 TO INCLUDE PERMISSION
TO TRAIN IN OWVL AND MEDIUM SPEED TRANSMISSION.

PHILIP G. ELMARD

of- 33408,

a roa
cs cory at

cerry tt) Tene

|23 FEBRUARY 1966.

Teas mice wane

i 201-334081

Chess REFERENCE TO



aera i

DISPATCH | .....:

Chief of Station, JMMAVE

Chief, WHD

et,

sarect TYPIC/OPERATIONAL
AMLUNT/2.

“ACTON RECUIEED - REFLRENCES

ACTION REQUI RED: FYI
REFERENCE: UFGA-24438

An Operational Approval was granted Subject on 8 February

1966,

" Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - JMWAVE

201-334081

Test

oan Tar
1 -wn/c/rr/os | Wi/c/rr/os  SPysare- Sin 11 Feb. 66] 7646
1 = WH/C/ESEC coownarine
1 = 201-334081 Ganee Tao y 7 SinCRS Name

Ru

~~
™

Goren me eat

Br) al

FY 530 usz eemious eomnien



: SECRET
2010. 334082

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of,
“l_gmuyr/e for the purpose specified in your request
‘dated_7 February 1966 __. :

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, wH/C/2R/OA

uton putat

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this
office, and ig granted under authority contained in CST and CSI-F 10-5.

CI/OPRRATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPFORT DIVISION

Date:_3 February 1966. jab_

Distrioutior
Orig. to Addressee
1 to Files

oi 3 348

SECRET §

Lott [2q ontenere receteys cot rvens or



SE ee ee ee ee

DeTIGNS.

“PRIOR TO FILING TO: ACTION BRANCH
1. Fill an pSeet..2' go bag a
od AEM Alto Mis PH BB
2. Destroy front cover sheet, dnless it records
significant action taken ot comments requir- documest-to RID) AN.

ing preservation, :

back Bap If fe no.‘and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no, bolow and forward

PROCER ERE NO

Rips A

TO: ALL ADORESSEES

LLIN SECTION | ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS.

- ae .
lay :
ge of :
poe gd 2G
A 6O" a
AY et
i! -
: GY
poof m
1366 esp
(ges [18 FE 16 we
=
oe a : — i
: : ,
Ta, 7
o w
7
_ ———+ + FETE
RID/FT
2 | |
: ; Le RET TEER EET
wir | FA 4 :
at Sate Se wGrA MED SCUNENT NOMUER SEEprmennnaass | ~
UFGA 24438
bd ¥
ons
LO OBE 600 3 ce



oe

eauata for soe

omy quaarae ct33
ean nee OCS

f Station, JMWAVE’ on ee
era tiona L/AMTRUNK

ACTION REQUIRED - Please Grant OA
REFERENCE - DIR-50920, POA Granted 15 Oct 65

Transmitted herewith are three (3) copies of

PRQ Part II for Subject. Request Headquarters grant

OA.

AS ‘i
Philip G, ELMARD

ATT: PRQ Part II, 3 cys

Distribution
3 - WH/C w/att

UFGA=24433

“cuassmcaTON igs FUE ROMER

201-334081



7 February 1966

AMLUNT/2
201-334081

ef Subject

ted

Caged, pat f

iressre watt.

1_- WH/C/RR/OS
wk - 201-334081

20/- 334.08 / ‘



re)

“TT OT ACTION BRANCH"

ed : Wf fle no aad tila shows are net prop

and forward te RID i
2. Destroy frost cover sheet, unless st records insert proper file no below and forward

siguthcant action taken ar comments requit- document to HID/AN,

ina preservation

FROM:

SRT TPE NO

RID/ A

7S ALL ADDRESSEES
Fain Sec fON 1 OM BACK FN

Couwents,

noon ate
nO

jae sae [sae :

[Lue lelee 7 ' iin 9 -te _

12.

13

iz 1 [ | :

1.

FLT HIE

7

RID/FI ae

i
!
SS ae

SECRET te











’ yu

pet

a

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

rote, c res Bxo

ceabtiTy 49 ee KOK

yorae comes

“3, SECRET

PERgoN UNIT NOTIFIED

.
7
2

wevance COPY oo Tine av

seen ei a

i DIR CITE VaVE 74
TYPIC AMTRONK NHAPRON :.

REFS A. UFGA-23252

B.  UFGA-25254

REQUEST STATUS POA REQUEST FOR ANLUNT-2.
SECRET
CFN 7479 UFGA-23252 UFGA-23254 POA AMLUNT-2

ST

got CIF

i plete 33408!

Vy ddan. 1468


SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR? Chics, aver
wH/c/S8/0A

‘Susser

REFERENCE: Meworandum, Dated

A Gctover 1965 erm _

r tke use of this Subject

A Provisional Operational Approval ts grant
as set forth below.

ef grants the same

A Provisional Operational Approval issued
authority, on x tetporary basis, for the use of an ! ual ag the authority
granted in an Operational Approval unless otheriise specified by CI/OA. It 1s
based, however, only on preliminary file checks ani investigation and is sub-
vect. toa further final review when all investigation is ccepleted.

--_ To process the Operational Approval, full inforsation {ecnpleted PRQ
Parts [ and If) must be submitted as scon as possible and net later than six
(6) months from this date. An Operational Approval «tll follow when all
investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satistactocy FAQ Farts I
and If, Cancellation must be requested if use of Subcect by Interested Di-

visions ceases.

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISTON i
15 Getaber 1965

SECRET

ESE 125 vse reevious correens



MESSAGE FORM
Toran comes:

RANCH CL] PLE RID

WH7C7RR7OA
7646
35 oct 85

Given Be SE c RET =e

sro 201-334081

. sor & serum cH tu
— |

o

JMWAVE

| prow: DIRECTOR

wiles

RID COPY eslen

WAVE
TYPIC

WFO.

REF: UFGA 23252*

POA GRANTED

WH/C/Comnent :

END

pequested eaity Poa]

15 OCT 65.

OF MESSAGE °

gor 33408

201-334081.

i

\

cire o1R

WH/C/MO/ PHL ee oo

C/¥HD

RELEASING OFFICER

coonomarine cericers

7

[9-15-32

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

DCWHD/C

AUTHENTICATING
orricen

copy no.

Bas a




SEGRET -

\ Ll October 1965

MERDRANEUMGOWEI IES Eton
\ SUBJECT:

201-33403T

ODENVY traces on Subject submitted by JMWAVE wes

surfaced from DD/P Records Center. The material was
reviewed by WH/C/RR/OA end

found to be non-derogatory.

==
Deputy fC

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addreasee
: 1; WH/C/RR/OA
: EX 201-334081

239 LOB/







It he no. and title shown aro not proper. in
sert proper file 80, below and ‘onward doo
umient to HID/AN.

ar ikea or commen
Ereservanon.

[FROM:

RID/ ‘

Lo | 7 . |

to | Roos Jerncews

vavriace |
" cet Jef v1 6 leek |
° aul Jenksda_ iad

”

PGROF eee

oF

oe)

we

«





SEORET

7 Cetsber 1965

NEWORANDUM FOK

SUBJECT

Attached herewith for your retention are two copies

of a PRQ Part L os the abave-listed Subject.

Distribution: z
Orig. & 2+ Addressee w/att.

1 WH/C/RR/OA

201-334081

SERCHET Guocp













= pon 19 aio eeueoma|
See a. U filo no. and title shows are; ay ge in
2 Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records sert proper tle no. below and torwé Z doc- -
=~ significant action taken’ or comments requir- umont fo RID/AN. a oH
irig preservation.
FROM: PROPER FILES ay)
np 40 8 2 :
FOr ALi AoDRESsEES
To Tow DoE orneane faa '
i NO. [axcenves. vex | imtTvate
: = ee — - : .
i z
eu eyn l eles 2M| Co ae
} 2. Hie
[> : A mig Wn oaer oie
ee he go 7, Pon mage’ “/s
i = be ~
' Wis Qyndlenr, 68
io wrlelaeloa 3fefard fofesta lh
ms
1
i nish +
ae
!
wilehucfef hee - 7
He 6.
i ri
5 t- | ;
: + |
ee 12. iz
is.
aa -
12
15. racer
1
~ WF t -
RID/FL |
ae Eee Tae ~
TRACE ey np HED RE
Ser Lapras eee i
ae DATE MICRCFILNEO MENT GATE [oOceMENT NUMBER
UGA 23252
_ zeae ial bl ~
SECRET ear
be

ne





CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

S7Q ATE TO UFGA-2

2

oa COPY

Ue ga -23250 Hissiigia gash aginunnaas izztize
Freer)
use emevious conon, |

