104-10186-10104

ew oeb

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tau matsrat eoamine mnformation afecting the Maticee! Defvans of the Coiled Biates witnm te mrasing of the Esplonace Lawn, Tite
1 CBC Seca 2 and TH too Urameminion of feveleticn of .WEKA In aay manner te an weeulnerian’ Serve prob!

SECRET :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Background Use Only
counmy Cuda /Doainican Republic REPORT NO. CLI ~316/02546-64
suuect Baldeniro CASTRO Garcia ATE DISTR. 14 December 1964 :
: NO. PAGES: i 2
2 REFERENCES
DATE OF 1964
INFO. it
pce g Nashington, D. Co

shi
1964 FIELD REPORT NO.

7  GNEVALUATED INFOUAATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEMINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE,

source A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Heacguarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
jaformation from tne records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no aetion on any of
the individuals rentioned in the personality reports without
. first checking with this Agency.

1. Source identified Baldemiro: CASTRO Garcia, a
Dominican, as a member of the Marxist-Leninist Movimiento
Popular Dominicano (MPD) who was a student at the guerrilia
warfare training school in Cuba. Source only saw CASTRO
once, and this was at the home of the delegate of the’
pro-Castro Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJ) in
Habana. ea

2. CASTRO was described by source 38. being about
5°8" tall, thin, and wearing a mustache .7+3

Headgvarters Comments:

1. The representative of the APCJ in Habana was probably
Socrates Isajuzs "Pupo" PEGUERO Sehourer. A usually
reliable source reported in TDCS~314/05506-64 that
PEGUERO will be removed from his position as representative
of the APCJ in Habana, and will be replaced by Daniel
MATIAS. Abrffu, who is now in Habana.

2. According to angther source CASTRO is white, 5'10", has
a pock-marked face, kinky hair, and is "pop-eyed."

. SECRET i | Specs oe
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Be |

meee

STATE Tow ane Trav Tate Tessa TAXK Tou/BX | FOI 2
REP_CINCEANT CINCSO_# _I&NS”__(ALSO_SENT TO SANTO_DOWINGOT

Looe
wiysa 8), WE (2), cr 6, ID T, MEAG) [|e 2/0R nee

WH,

1, LX-132

1x0 PROJECT (AMMUG/ 1. ‘

See peeceeceaeey
4

Snot
4

an draft | CL/TR

DM -7adaat


i SECRET
a NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/07546-64

In May 1962 an untested source, who was then a-member of the MPD,
said that CASTRO was probably Secretary of Workers* Affair:

ttee of the MPD. (See CS-3/511,325). an
eported in .CS=3/561,001 that CASTRO arrived in
ngEston, Jama y on 18 September 1963 enroute to Habana as a

delegate to attend the Seventh Congress of the International Union
of Architects, to be held from 29-September to 3 October 1963.

His passport, No. 115933, issued on 10 September 1963, stated

that he was born on 5 May 1978 in Santo Domingo and that he was

an industrial employee. In December 1963 an untested source, a
member of the MPD, reported that the first rebel groups’ under .
the direction of the HPD had been formed at Hato Mayor and at

El Sexo, in the eastern part of the Dominican Republic, and that
the Hato -Mayor group, composed of about 150 men’ from all leftist
parties, was under the leadership of Roman Baldemiro CASTRO.

(See TDCS 3/567,279). In October 1964 CASTRO is reported to have
returned to the Dominican Republic from Cuba. (See CS-311/06078-64).
CASTRO is married to Ana Mercedes ESPINAL, and they have six

children.

4,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

'
‘
1

