u-f0t62-10756)

ah

ee ba)
se :
pase conrnon/us orrrcraLs ony
FROM: ENGLAND, LONDON REPORT NUMBER: OEL37,382
NUMBER OF
PAG’S: 1 DATS: 25 February 1964
REPORT Of REPORT
MADZ BY: LEROY T. WADSWORTH APPROVED e ‘SL. GRIFFITHS

DISTRIBUTION BY COPY TO:-Washington 1 i

ca
DRIGINATING |SMOTH

SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA AND COMMENTS:

Madrid (FOR GROWERY) 1
Caracas 1

Registry

ION: Rel | REFERENCES: OEL~37,382

”

of 4
[sword comm: A copy of this report has been passed to KUBARK
representative in Caracas, é

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

. ‘qT
: . é 3}¢ § a,’
Lom ie
: . |  meBemer-conTROL/es OFFICIALS orty Jo/ ofa)
pRETURN To cia
ae peace Rekground U
ee Ee Do Nat Represaoe!

wh

Sane names Nett ele



—

iene CN, RS NANNERL PN

pect pencnt 4 SABRA mE RAEN ALOE SC Reet ene

1. OM,

Aa J ee. |

5th February 1964

cuBA/C. 203 sHERTCA.
Political/idle

Guben Exile Jstivities in the Caribbeane
f

on 22nd January 1964 0 Leader of the Cuban exile party, Hovimlento
Revoluoicnerio Populer (Populer Revolutionary Hovenent — HARP.) gave the
following confidential review of Cuban exile activities in'the Caribbean:

(4) No further ccnversations between ex-President 30u0ZA of Nicaragua 4 >
poe

oP tt

kmown to have taken place concerning “Operseien Centroenerigena* °°", 7
fat

and Carlos PRIO SOCARSAS, President ‘of Cuba fron 1915-52, are

(Central Americen Operction) and this project continues toveat TD,
@ standstill. nee 4 : vc
(44) Heenshile Mamel ©RITME, the leader of the exile organisation, Yovi-

miento de Recuperacion Revelucionaria (Movemeat of Revolutionary

Recovery ~ U.R.R.) 1s slowly strengthening aud training @ group ant i
of exiles in Niceragua. ZRTIMS's activities are apparently
unconnected with "Operseion Centroamericana™ although no open sf ‘
rock with F2I0 SOURS hes been made. The ii.R.P, cleims that

the United States. i
(444) The exile alliance of the H.R.P., Alphe 66 and the Second liscanbray 7? , '

Front will consider joining forces, with ARTE hen the lotter's

ergenisation has developed sufficient strength to uke an attack i

}
1
ARTIME 4s receiving e1a from the Nicaraguan Government and from im ‘
{
i

on Cube feasible. The alliance is concentrating on building up

dite para-military org:nisation, which is “Lea by Sloy GUTTERRSZ

iia |
i
‘|

eens ets

eareerreerareenes



. REPORT

UNTEV

COUNTRY:

' SUBSE?

gag i :
[exarsa156/3596) DATE: 14 Feb 1964
POUBA/CENTRAL AMERICA :

oCuban Exile Activities in the Caribbean
Current: (February 1964)

Regular source probably reliable quoting members of
various Cuban exile groups as indicated in report.

While we are reasonably confident that the statements
of the Cuban exiles are correctly reported, these '
statements may in part be exaggerated or unrealistic,

A copy of this report has been parsed to your rep-
resentative in Caracas,

"Operacion Centroamericana” has previously been re-
Ported as being at a standstill, .

19 February 1964

is Rosanne

*

betaaditatcabadis
