# 104-10180-10023

## Page 1

104-10180-10023

- = REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

4=6.

NKA 233-4

9 August 1972

priore quier

MAorD 1io 19a.1050

•1:..9109:10"1

P1:r.149:129

Has - Mat + 1

BLOCK TO MY SI

1.

:2.

3.

1.

required during foir hour conversation with

201-730187 and during

his

regular contacts

201-730187 and the wife of IDEN

with 201-216011,

10 NRAA 1913.

Information assed to

attributed to source in

West Europe.

Not for any other

liaison.

File:

33-1-: 1: 33-9-26: x-jef 201-868095, 201-730187;

201-272262: 201-817901 and 201-216011.

Index for Fiold use:

CO 0021 D22 F33-4-3/1_

1a01-272262

1467

---

## Page 2

13.208

5766.8°8

117037

M0 12835203

.2.":1

fronte

DH GIg • 10 daly 1912

619:

2i July 1179:

IX6 2294

no of middais

1972, to Dissidost Groundot Porty of Grecen

cerosy man netbaptlig io roorgasica 160027 in osicolishlog & how

An Chior: 0121 ds sado to noid a conforcics

cairos rithin thy coxi for sonias to colorsino 18 now leader.

it to chocos frey annes cadre living in Greece logally,

1: 50g

i.e

ER Tuador Bioing alacad oilt resign dro tho party vial me froz

riinto Croces.

at thne theo, tat caure living is Erocee Incarily

4 1}.7

loste tie cocotry.

(5car20 Corneat:

Althosos dio DILE w112

thus lo. dirocies b3

loral rcallonts, tioti retivitios en isaiald ef

no 3a3 mill Do 11lcgul according to Grock Iny and the coabor

mad be subject to arrest.)

Leonidas

licing 1Sicoaliy 13 6r00s0, describue

Ce 0248 104

Pulltloal Ceraistso a so conior de Piro or six poorla

issro sibility for cataillenirs the rarers poliulcit

Exits

innaiss randy noiley reparing Greal: colliical dovadopuonis rai

idoing co toaonds in the rome of tito die.

Ox:anlsp6l02a8 Cocaiitoo o to dry io sanctivato die

20n1a00 FinGses 01

tho com "getuso te got invoived".

Becaros oi do collideal situatica io Graces: thoro will Ma nu

PRich 2010 is guin 5ogg toraitoonts into the party.

7il 00 as condoci tocreos Escuess of the Cagenicstlonni aid

Coraletoo Abroad a to isto Its bosiguritoro lian Rest

hiroroad capital and to reprosost bals tatororts with other

SECRE T/NO FOREIGH DI 33BI

integgy-we Ackors.

---

## Page 3

-V:"

lai.

7022

•dro

Er

21÷1

Frit

1r2o

2.5

*=^s

Potett

150183.

Alge :

NAC 73-4

,ii:

manna in pardo articitle?

Marian

13:.

"=;.

Condoni:

Carlod Moncon 19 alcalie

.l.:

irit

ioi

fid'

"istit?"

rutti:

Mariti"

10d balleves

11:6d.

100:10a3

170x63.

nitro Cociminole dete lain.

5:1/103

maing Cortoil nad calorlitt

Cartierre;

257?

sCotti"

icofronts:

3: 1

in settan toile:

vili

.?.

..a: 93

Zoer ae dagente:

ara.

i

Bacils

h.-?9

. ::

ti?t

112100151

Acrainchay

(cabiso

12.A0° 3'

Genere%

incapienyr:

÷52

Ga72

-909414"

$3:1

1i2?a

tild

Canott

Cia:

Pril

ialia

Krarna

2: 3

ninitttis

ihoir

= sios

-lacion rachor dian trat

Scoree

Cessarot:

Profoots :x12

÷.:

?:::

Cirron;

.9*2

7172

Euliara or thio niciy

MITE

rostin

tiale offloor.

2e 2a16

10EC0N

Grisce,

₫1237

thea ais

7.2.9::

Si:y

siraged

iNO

allios

nolenis

12122

11 torta

hj.:s

14tU2d

Wa2E

mild or

tri

romaninitici

il cronied

interes

13005

1i:di2

fine

in docia!

Ter?

18290

Mitai:

Pod condian.

72÷705.

Ped ing"

Pireot

fiet

corios

acurera:dices

in tiri?

• 6

Tatira

11:9

tirpross

to cicerog

-t1: 18.

parado

sarace".

3hro:,

10/68433

intes aod

12377

the.

110.9

credi!

 00:2:16.

Accanit

gae

proposa a contiani

i r?

Gross colicas

dare

Carust!

in nighte contrarl

Hard!

Tichiariey

Athenr.

NE FORMER

?!:i

6128069

19592)

5:1

i.i.

AUTHAPICAIT

rci661772D 0448

---

## Page 4

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH

NO.

Duca

07PT-116

(25106236)

CLASSIFICATION

TO

FROS

Calal os Stallea

chief, fy

SUBJECT: CAMERAL.

SPECIFIE.

DATE:

Referiacos OrPi-937 and premious corrospondenos

DP3 -

25762

1. Pallorise, for your leporsation ouly, 1f li consary of a roceus ro

port rocalved fron the Bursan

Men rogaaaiing renasai of bla pagosort la terrabar 1752,

that 1t mas recensar, los par le potin

because of baniases.

artalro.

Ho eald ho sinaod do enl dia gelaene plant

mt1l deptaber 1952, Lhier mas balna operacod

endor o partorabia aproeneat.

Tha Parsas! o

repart algo M01s.n1 informalien fros acother 1009118

alan: br doço danaliarário bora por ta Ula decordina tu tala rasaro,

Thas sabelvado

Tared 17 Dadanhag 1,951

di merorio. mis fisal

0f a sTeel deal ior mor

lo gol tha

prossos in operailer.

In addition, the Borosa reportod that

prosport

Ba 9 Fobrary 1953 vaildstad for four sorthy anly, 1.n., vult & juno

3953, and ilaltad

insoration portalriza ta

may bo (dontical sith

a posaiulo Bortot agoni, nha

o tha Drother 1,lay of tho alia

ACLEAR/MO

OBFICEN

COSROINATINE

OFFICEB

AUTHEMTICATING

ICEO

CLASSIFICATION

в оlle

• 2891

---

## Page 5

14-00000

25082

S.. It may do soted teatl

sabia mao alos rocalved tion elo baressio

puri turiria la iucreni do

naj have bons developod recctiy

Dietr1butlon:

1-ĐI

218/3 t12e

Dato prepa: 18 fag 53

---

## Page 6

scuis:

DiSPAiCH No. rSfA-112

-...

TO

Chief, Mis

FROM

c/s,

SUBJECT: GENERAL.

SPECIFIC:

2 dulj 13s1

Operationil

CERT TO BEN SANGE

operational later mir

1301

Ist:: wrote to searcher.

see Rsia-lo

and:

Cave a rimer su 2u or Arthurs.

Mallonal Fares and

"van onion iread of

custom

here is

3008091%

the

following custon.

alast peopie, and i an

3rd:

Drove to

while there, i not

At ME de Lap it the Price createris.

presentative of

ЛЕС.

Staved over for con-coi

1s practically. moburnale tere

194.

prouded.

scotch

local liquor in detanttaly

find the

pond entrain a

10tdl0 0f 000t0100 codir: i: Potdes thi man most likels

to succeed.

5th: lind seamu and dire dimm!

brove to dohamnesiury to

Administration.

Pior them and

of the denys

the Criterion

ni:?:t-club (sic).

lotin ind

Montes are on their

rest Airica for a correrone.

may to trench

marad to meet them on their

my bick.

8tr.:

Air. and urs. Mirienin

a nunher

of merica: apis

ariane

for then.

at 98 dare ray ten sees

12th:

or using him. .

!:-100.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

13th:

found

]n

the evenin"

16 200°

she already mu

News.

Chatted a Thile, non

a he Pretoria

14th:

fraternity.

Gave a lunchedi

truests:

" РУБО!"

th itoris club for the mining

wir atre on, cological lept.

want

MAo Geriod cal Depte

itiritani of tires

ravi ent

1006 60? te

risens of fires

Presen

"Tartine of idnes

ion of Mines

Warnedton

fire!

wadie

ab?

Attache

Moe notes a mender da to decora cli, i le do ilvé die lunch

throunh Birch, who

15th:

Gave

hold.

cocht it uter mrig for as many as the house would

Guests:

Mr.

and

and

Nir.

•rs.

wtold teed of tond datety benartient)

rile

Miss toolman

-inetoria Univ.)

Er.

HEr.

2nd

Ars.

Mrs.

Linous botan

1660rt.21

NT.

Dr°

and

Hiro.

imrisiton

Nir.

And

Мг..

::1K:

17:.

oner Percent.

MARING Co.)

Mr.

1:10r

and

And

hir:

tirs.

Shortne

ler. end

dirs.

N2°

kirs.

rs. Sirch

Dourrenty

rs. "Connelly

Put then up for the

19th:

look them back do ta tirfori.

intention of settling in leny.

reiniss said he had no

ater mis Potiresent.

agitation anong the mirayu natives

100

MuCh

- idd lan irdians pronuine

the place.

ruture in

More and more neonis son saptry mar they see no

Africa for the arorin.

=

; i

---

## Page 8

22nc:

tv Thre ret am

chanted

charre of trainine the malice tor ine 19o de south Africa...

l've been ranting do cultivate

this may

prove to be the opera sui.

mie: circles for some tire,

and

tit coert steinterr,

noted sculptor; also Airer joseas, rotter and archatect.

23rd:

waterer pith or

former Son. Minister: 1e ald 12%.

let it.

Fire: (?) sidor of a

service.

diplomatic

viers on apartheid

storer monoroliced tre contraction with stiff afrikanner

don't

apply

to Afrikaner homes,

lectricians m politiesl armacches aplerently

24th: (Suncay)

spent the dey with:

!. and Ars. Malin (eray) van das, stock exchange

standald bunk,

PIcked un bertive in tie: :

I must find out if she is

ust naturally run. if a

i'll cross

Engeman

her off mi list.

party sne

is

a: ind mine

rivin? for her minister!

to & carthcay

this artistic cirole that lon' allot ther coral.

whore is sonethine stout

fet a

more intluate emguinu.nce

I intero to

"ill it.

Vicla,

(I mean

irs.

Poseman) wanted an extra fir joy the arty hal she rouich't have

Sedative.

26th:

Serty

is back from cons

Forn.

I told him I nas now doint minenil ma.

he sacred surprised

when

been received from lashin on tortit

19:18

said

no Fold

had

80r1

was neider.

Талід 10.

T.?..t1.

He Polattered int

in matint aproval.

the W?y

il i:.

le choked te the

i crittle true fight,

50

thad's.

'Ne dont to bit

deares sonchhat from tauna of int

harth

20, kick

ihr' sans tine.

read in

his catile

Frisbie's arrival at which

ting in mireral work until

see valet chie to so cate mar are to primery

mission

with cover wall conflishe

jur linison officer might

point our to the Departent tink covers mist be-maintained as well

as established.

27th:

Attended i cocktail ter moon my Mador toryan to welcome

che military

ron metal .

ict,

and talked

Glass, ASSI

prominently in the

I Pritish mlitory Airloony Co0dorg Dean, tho figured

recont,

son

of sir troms® Culinan

• id.

hil11879

or dishona

recharrie; boules culinar,

om right.

and very wealthy

in its

acquaintanceship.

class and Culinen scened interested in furthering the

Till do.

---

## Page 9

25th:

scoich and

soon,

modertion;

secmeri

ro rely

inhilltions.

it witled ter tongue

tut not te

the coins 01 lunack.

irinal somethin" of her

back "round:

a bohemian circi,

irently conterine arouit rer

roke up as the artint comers married die to one.

1 sorced a

ritterness, & disillusionut

t.Nd M05

morokon reprorches arminst

herself as

well be animit other.

no does-not Beon to loom very late: du the landscape.

ke fore

lenvin® I led the convertlan

to tre the sald she hidn't

sten. him for sonc

ith tim, reso we each in touch

2oth::

Attendene firty ur ahrer loseran's

then, at 2:10 A.b.

te hardier-mosts nitered torte

rame or it,

no left.

The

group, artisticully anclin, mo.der.line down for a reading of

qualnt, erotic tales.

30th:

Drove to-Johanestic to rich upar. ind trs. Mi collle,

then to vermistown to ittin

this reen with the dex rise's.

the evenir,, Wise

gue & rarly,

relimine which he drove back to

Joharnesture and srent the micht aitin ire doilie's.

I would like

to describe

the last 1a0 dogs in greater

completeness but the pouch artis.

76-6-1-57

---

