104-10413-10268)

DI § P AT C H 7 CLASSIFICATION: PROCESSING ACTION
| ECRE SE eee
: ein
Chief, WH Division xx NO INDEXING REQUIRED
= SNS I" RED veo
7 a nen leggy
Chief of Station, Mexico City Po
Co =e an re ~

Monthly Operational Report for Project LIENVOY,
[aerioW REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action: None, For Headquarters information.

Reference: HMMA~22135, 13 September 1963.

1, There follows the monthly operational report for Project LIENVOY
activities during September 1963,

2, Target Lines - September 1963,

The following lines were covered during the month of September:

(continued)
26106 mee i]aKe
7 Enclosure: Removed from Project. 9/2,
Production Report Gs Cronsgtremttons 7“
Box _ Folds_w
Distribution:
WH, w/encl
(ROSS REFERENCE TO axsparen sro AND moe ~Y oxte -

HMMA~ 22267 “8 October 1963

SECRET / rE

HOS PLE NUMBER

50~6-15/2

Be aN SRE RHR RF PEN



13-00000

. _—™. ~
~ = T TRATES TTT TAROT TT
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH | SECRET | Seta HMMA =22267
10-29-69 = — Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional
‘disconnected 18 September 1963)
= (Revista~ Manuel Marcue Pardinas)
46-60-15 —Prena Latina
46-60-16 Prensa Latina
14-42-37 Cuban Embassy
14-92-14 Cuban Embassy (disconnected 23 September 1963)
25-07-95 Cuban Embassy (apartment of Ramon Sinobas
disconnected on 23 September 1963 when apartment
became vacant)
14-13-26 Cuban Embassy
15-60-55 Soviet Embassy (Chancery)
15-61-55 Soviet Embassy (Chancery)
15=69~87 Soviet Embassy (Military Attache)
15=61=07 Soviet Embassy (Commercial Office)
15-12-64 Soviet Embassy (Film Repsesentative)
45-61-80 Czech Embassy
45-61-81 Czech Embassy
20-38-98 Yugoslav Embassy (connected 18 September 1963)
29-68-69 Yugoslav Embassy (connected 23 September 1963)
20-68-23 Yugoslav Embassy (connected 23 September 1963)

Headquarters will note from the above that three lines were disconnected in
order to cover three Yugoslav lines. Two of the lines which were disconnected

were Cuban Embassy lines, both were not in use by the Cubans.

One was in

” morning for the day before.

the apartment which had been vacated by Ramon Sinobas and not occupied by
other Cubans. The other was a telephone in the Cuban Embassy which was
never answered. The Cubans are trying to get Sinobas! line moved to the
Embassy. They have also asked for the telephone company to repair 14-92-14,
As soon as these lines are working again, coverage of two of the Yugoslav
Embassy lines will be dropped in order to pick up all the Cuban lines which
are presumed to have a much higher priority.

3. Processing of LIENVOY Information _

The Station continues to receive full transcripts in Spanish on the
Cuban lines (three), the Soviet Embassy lines (five), and as of 18 and 23
S eptember the Yugoslav lines (three). These transcripts are received each
During September, the LIENYOY monitors
transcribed 1396 pages in addition to the daily resumen,

The outside translators now working on LIENVOY transcripts are
Orville HORSFALL, staff agent, who is used for-almost any backlog which
begins to occur,

David B
Czech take.

SCHILAC

ER, field contract agent, who transcribes the
Victor W, OBOLD, career agent, who transcribes the Yugoslav portion
of the Yugoslav take.

Douglas J. FEINGLASS, staff agent, who continues to transcribe the
Russian language portion of the Soviet take,

4. Exploitation of LIENVOY Information

Two leads from LIENVOY of operational interest in September 1963 were:



13-00000

HMMA~22267

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET / diptieipmatey’

a. On é September 1963 a Russian speaking female contacted
the Soviet Embassy and asked for Svyatoslav Fedorovich KUZNETSOV, KGB,
She identified herself by name and as a professor from New Orleans, She
gave the address of her apartment and asked for a meeting. This lead was
promptly followed up by station investigative assets who identified the woman
and learned that she was attending a philosophers! conference at the University
of Mexico, She returned to the United States on 17 September. All available
information was forwarded to Headquarters for passing to ODENVY.

b, MEXI-6135 reported the contact between an unidentified Czech
woman and the Czech Embassy.

5. Liaison
On 18 September 1963 Oliver G, GALBOND and Willard C, CURTIS
met with LIELEGANT and LIERGO. They also saw LIELEGANT on 20
September.

6. Security
There were no security’ problems during this month,
7. Technical
There were no technical problems which AREHART could not handle.
8. Personnel

Robert B, RIGGS continues to meet Arnold AREHART each morning
before 0800 hours to receive all LIENVOY tapes and trascripts from the
previous day. The daily meetings with Victor W. OBOLD and David B.
SCHLAGETER, the two EE translators, Wshtransferred on 18 September 1963
from the Station EE case officer to the KURIOT technician, Gregory D.
PARMUTH who delivers and receives reels and transcripts from them each
day. PARMUTH also acts as a cutout for Douglas J, FEINGLASS,

Paul V, LEVISTER, Headquarters KUTUBE officer, visited the
Station from 22 September to 1 October to consult with LIENVOY and LIFEAT
case officers in preparation for a report to be written on the two projects
as examples of tap operations which produce both positive intelligence and
operational leads,

There is attached a list of reports,cables and dispatches forwarded to
Headquarters during this month.



13-00000

SECRET

LIENVOY PRODUCTION - SEPTEMBER 1963

HEXIS _ _ HMMAs es _—_ DMs

HMMA 22194
HMMA 22193
HMMA 22159
HMA 22110 IM 7767
HMMA 22155 HOM 742
HMMA 2211.6 HMM 725
HMMA 22115 IMM 7 72h
HMMA 22068 HMM 7725
HMMA 22052

(HM 712.)

(iM 7708)

(itt 7708)

(14-7707)

1 5 9 a -

Tea 1
3 aaa

SECRET

50-6: Ta]

