# 104-10120-10355

## Page 1

104-10120-10355

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do not Repressed

13 July 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Everette Howard Hunt, Jr.

74

1. On 30 June 1972, MI. Arnold I Parham, Federal:

Bureau of Investigation; inquised of the Acting Deputy Director of

Security (PS), MI. Leo Dunn, as to documents losuod by the Agency

to Everotte Howard Hunt, JT., In the alias Edward Joseph Hamilton

or any other alias. He mentioned pecifically. a

Driver

License; Massachusetts Auto Regiutration Formai

Cardi

and Insurance Polley.

2. I telephoned ad Duffy, TSD Security Officer, but he wasn't

in.

I ended up talking with Wesley M. Parcells, 12531, who checked

TSD files on documentation tamed ia the alias "Hamiiton." This ie

the only way the name is now listed on TSD'a records.. They have no

first name or middle initial. Their records "imply reflect that on two

occasions sometime between 1957 and 1964, alias documentation was

issued to someone in the name of "Hamilton." The requests are numbered

1005 and 2134 on the TSD Control Card. They do not cross-reference

alias names to true names, and could not any whether or not Subject wan

Sasued any other alias.

insued, among the other items.

3. Office of Security recorde ihow that Subject was to have been

Drivers License with a

Providence, Rhode Island, address. Mr. Parcelle said it in possible

that this was issued, and also possible that he would have been lowued

Card and insurance policy. None of these would have

been backstopped.

Mr. Parcelle said it would have been difficult or

impossible to renew the

Drivers License because one

would have to show up for a test. (It has been the writer's experience

that thia was not necessarily true in past years. ) The

10

Driver License would have expired in two years. The

24

Card, while fake, would be "valid! indefinitaly.

The insurance -pousy

would presumably expire at whatever date it bore.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• I telephoned Mr. Iwence Sternfied, Ches Why Coo

king him for information in WH Division lies ne to what documentation

Subject might ever have been innued: Mr, Sterhfield haid that wHite

Division fley would not reflect information relating to any of Bubject e

Ansen.

5. I neat spoke to Mr. Willard Burke, Central Cover Stall

5322, who advised that all

Drivers Licenie and &

Auto Regiotration Form are two different items. 'He

checked hin records on Subject, and found, after pulling them from

Rotired Tiles, that there was nothing relative to Cover documentation

there. I then checked the fle myell, junt to be ure. He la correct.

here'to nothing unble in the fle as rogard Cover document or CoveT

documentation of any lind, with the exception of referencor to subjeck»

State Department statur on varlous overseas tours and trips.

Frederick N. Evans

2/8R

---

