Tiree

@pe Offtecr (chief Fr) :

OFFIGE TRAVEL ORDER NO.
PE /B5D

muerednT

70 FE /ae
‘OFFicn PHONE ERAGE AND SKLARY

2566

Rien Fin
‘OFFICIAL STATION

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary
Agency ‘Regulations.

"“ qhevel exthorised from Yaahe,DC. to (em Re Ava sn 3

ae
VID OL Au:

PURPOSE

FS

SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

Dependents af evhject authorized to travel

2 vife,,boruthy L; deoghter

Lise Tey Byres Gan, Eeveti Tey 16 mos; son, Howard St. John, 2 mez.

500 Lbs

excess baggage authorized in Liew of

any excess travel time to be charged to leave end soy excess cust to be paid by es-
in secartance with AF only 3,006 Iba ef personal and housshald effects nay by

Liemters Bary 35 Sra pevest £
‘COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

ALL effects net shigpsd up te the maxizr p
uovernaent expense.

Coser (1 ormer opeRATioNAL AREAS. Ca miearer cogangncaatg ORTsINABLEDS

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance tsrithrép Cost de
with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized. $

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY CERTIFICATION cr

Certified a True Copy. Signed

MoD d pena Lpaarn GrEival 0/6

copy on file in Central Process-
ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

Og

BO D800] +

gnGachh griginiy G¥6iko Avromonice as FoLLows IF APPLICABLE necessary. Amended as indicated.

(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

f
' W
Co) event canra Pen NILE, AB anita HORE ADVarrraceous To BL:

‘THE GOVERNMENT.
s SIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF OFFS ‘OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE
IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GooDs, PEn-
SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL
EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, Is AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSENOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED. Yy,

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE,
DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE.

TEMPORARY DUTY.

NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

Esy Shormen CPS /PT

(DATED SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

Forman r3 SayrS ; (26-48)
oer test "> SUPERSEDES PREVIOUS EDUTIONS OF FORMS 33-27, 33-28, B48, 24-4A, 34-8, 36-207 AND 37-60 WHICH MAY NOT BE USED.

YF U. @ GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1982 - 230811



: GRCEET - -2B4t0 Bieta

ti . : OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER. NO. ss

: : TRAVEL ORDER

FE /B5O
_ tn 8 a

NAME : OFFICE PHONE GRADE AND BALARY

2566 GS-15 $20,800,
ee SES? 4

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in atco
Agency Regulations,

“gravel enthorised from Yash.,D.C. to of. |

PURPOSE

RS

“SPECIAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

Dependents of subject authorised te travel concurrently. Wife,,borethy daughter
Lisa Te, 3yra; eon, Keven T., 16 mos; son, Howard St. Jon, 2 mos. is j
500 lba excess baggage authorized in lieu ef maccompanied baggage. i
aU canns wavel tims to be charged to lecve and any excess cost to be paid by em-
eis |
cited aa eon ATR~A5-1050) only 3,000 bs of personel snd honsahokd effects bq |
shipped due to shipping restrictions. All effects not shipped up to the maxima elo d
for the grode, may be stared at government expanse. . !
Shipment of personal vehicle authorised. :

Stendarc BREE FCS orders required (nac
COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

Cooper : (9 orner oreRaTIONAL ARcAS (1 theater ompr@oangy one 3) Mer i
Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance xeniareo cost Gr reaver IH F25eH
with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized. g
TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT ‘TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY CERTIFICATION or nod iyinci !
Certified a True Copy. Signed i
Don MONE IS Be oye
woo ” ertivel copy on file in Central Process- :
ing Branch, Reviewed. No change |
PROBL 7 Blig EAMES aurononice As FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE necessary. Amended as indicated. i
(A) SEVEN CENTS PER MILE) NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.
Jue coveRnwenr.
THE CHANGE OF OFFIgIA TON INDICATED 18 EFFECTED IN TH BY oF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR FERSONAL CONVENIENCE.
IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED To TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PER-
SONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS BET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS,

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL
EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, 15 AUTHORIZED.

n RETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GooDs, PERSONAL
y Errecta ano AUTOMOBILE, 18 AUTHORIZED.
DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE. Pir
He, |
DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE. sf

UG UFO REA OF

TEMPORARY DUTY.
\ [DAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

‘| key Sharman CFR/FP jie OF : AMIE

DATED SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

ns F (20-48)
SUPERSEDES PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 33-27, 83-26, 34-8, 94-44, 34-5, 26-207 AND 27-60 WHICH MAY NOT BE USED.
TU. 6. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: tonz - 220611

Fawntae

A Wiest 3.

E o cn
