# 104-10215-10161

## Page 1

104-10215-10161

C

D

6

H

J

M

P

R

SECRET

RECORD 80.

INVENTORY - MON STAFF PERSONNEL

2

3

ARBITRARY NO.

SUBJECT § 261

201-

OTHER FILE NO.

332676

SURNAME

IST NAME

PERSOHALIA

OTHER GIVEN NAME/TELECODE

AMHINT/56

COUNTRY OF BIR::

DATE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP.

Cuba

COUNTRY CURRENTLY RESIDES

6 May 39

CITY CURRENTLY RESIDES- YEAR

Cuban

MARITAL STATUS (WeSt raGONE)

USA

OVERT OCCUPATION

Miami 65

LANGUAGE

Married

LANGUAGE

Rodman

#LITARY SERVICE COUNTEY

Span R,W,S

BRANCH OF SERVICE

EngI R,W,S

INCLUSIVE DATES

USA

COUNTRY AREA KNOWLEDGE

Army

coUNTRY

62-63

COUNTRY

Cuba

FUNCTIONIS) PERFORMEO FOR AGENCY (LIOlE tO 62 SpACeO)

Commando small boat operator

FUACTION(S) PERFORMED FOR AGENCY (Alalt to 62 apaces)

CONTRACT EMPLOYEE

TYPE EMPLOYEE CONTRACT EMPLOVER WIFE

TYPE A OR B

MAINTENANCE/SERVICE

CONSUE. TANT

PROPRIETARY OR SUBSIDY

FIELO AGENT

MOS. FE OR UIF

INDEPEMDERT CONTRACTOR

Yes

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

Yes

NOS CONPONENT RESFONSIBLE

USF

POA

STATUS

STAFF CLEARANCE

FIELD STATION HESPONSIBLE

PROJECT

WH

ENTRY ON BUTY DATE

Wave

YEARLY SALARY

BATE LAST PAY CHANGE

Aug 62

PART OF A RETIREMEHT

PLAN •

$3,600

SPECIPY (limit to 62 epocen)

Jan 66

USSS

DATE TERMIMATEO

REENPLOYASLE

STAFE CEILINE SPACE

REMARNS (80!

•J (limit to 82 apacro)

FORt

d-8s 2457

SECRET

4

TYPE OF NAME

C

MATURAL LIED-US

(yes or pending)

SEX (NOS P)

M

LANGUAGE

CODE

PH

CODE

FULL, PART TIME

OR TAE

CAREER AGENT

NOC/MOA

MOC

CSA/PCIA

COVER

Nonoft

ATTITUDE

0-803

---

## Page 2

14-00000

S-E-C-P-E-T

NAME FrancIsco, NANCO Fernande%

DATE OF IEDI ,28 Angrat 1962.

CASE OFFICER. Gronder.

FORMER OCCUPATION (S

• EDUCASION

DATE OF BIRTH 6. Hay. 1939.

AGZ 20

12: J58 HIgh: school, ? Jeere law, Unit. Of Havana

student

PROJECTED ASSIGIMENT .

Infiltration, singleton

MILITARY TRAININO

dione

CLANDESTIRE EXPERIENCE

About tup Jears DiE Inside; CU Leader his home area but no action;

.. o marka with IS 12 Mland, man On rald Of Have 24 August I96e, :

SPECIAL SKILLS

• done .

lia perforance

INTFLLECTUAL LEVEL (BY US STANDARDS) • • Abave average to e

verage, conalderable varlability/

INIELIBOTUAL LEVEL, (EY STADARDS OF CURANS ASSESSED IN 1960) . Above average

SUITABILITY FOR ASSIGN-INT Question raised concerning ability to perfor effect vely. •

• o • althout stsong gutdanoe. • • . ..

COMEAT'S

This 18 one of the Individuala tho participated last week 1a the DRE raid On

Kavans. He hal no leadership role, wnt along as a riflenan, stayed on the larger

of the two vessels while the maller moved in for the shelling. At no time were they

resched by opposition gunfire and they experienced no near dangers.. He reports. that

ha held up well under this stress, as he had as past jobs tnalde, although he was

nervoas before and after.

Subject became Involved In the DRE In 1959 when It grew up In Cuba, He n

mediate associates mire students at the University of Havana whom he had know for

years, attending the Belen College under the Jesuits as boys. His participation in

this group appears to have been primily as & "coordinator," that elusive role which

appears to man Interacting with others and talking about what to do but not becoming

Involved In mch astivity. He claims to have partleipated in one or two winor bombings.

Inter he wus (ll leader for his group in Piner del Rio (before the invaston) m0 flat

Ing, but organiretion and preparation. The group broke up in 1961 after the Invasion

api he vent Into the Venesielan Ebassy and later on to the Ue Se

Motiration for the proposed assigment of Infiltration is based upon above ex-

portence and recent Involvement in the DRE activities- the recent rata ves his first.

to back to Cuba, he claims. He also takes pride In his grandfather having been

'renator"at one tire in Cuba and his older brother having been national chies of

(Els father died when he was sbout

My ye the obe are eat to fashing ingel to keep up at

Ie prefers raid-and comando types of sasignments 11 such are possible. -If not be.

apresses a willingness to go on an infiltration lasion provided he has assurance that

It Is part of an overall organised plan that has a possibility of lening to the

dontell of Castros:: He would not want to go in to remain In place, 1f the Objective

ware mely for intelligence uithout being part of a plan.

Intellectually, this indiridual's performince Is characterized by great varlability.

le win absorb information falrly rapidly and he should show good practical Judgemen

In most datly problems. Foreves, any performence requiring analysin of a problem and

coordination of vicual perception with mumal dexterity sch as in the assembly of a

201-332676

BS007. 1 :

Enclotrs ma arizait

grang a24

trasha

---

## Page 3

SOONET

Franclaco BLAICO Fernandez

weapon, motor, ote. In most difficult for him. On certain test problems of this

type, he froze completely, and deteriorated to aimless novemente. His memory

of numbers and recall of designs which he was required to draw vere poor com.

pared to his other abillties. However, he appears capable of relating a clear,

logical sequence of events.

All In all, this Individual does not have unch leadership potential in terma

of experience, self-confidence and drive; he needa strong guidance. He feels he

must do nothing and 1s pushing himself to volunteer provided he can get re-

assurance that his job 1s part of a bigger plan. Although he 18 sincere and

basically & bright person, hia performance 1s apt to vary a good deal and at

stion Staff

20830224

6603e 1

zad

$ 19: 1002200

SECDET

---

## Page 4

S-E-CRET

SPECIFIC QUALITIES

Above

Average

Average

Ealou

Average

to His rocord of clandastios activity le Iprecalve

2o Hls ganeral past record 1a Impressive

3. His notivation is gourd

Ho He U1l1 have entitslan for the vork

So He la fond of slat and adventura

6. He will be a goal fighting solitar

To He is an setive type ...

Bo He can live off the Land ....

9. He will perform vell under stress

10, He will be fatsly easy to got along with

do He vill mato a good team menber.

12. He vili tollon orders ....

nor prodnetive ®

13. He will da soilaila h1o parteranee-uth gadane pay bo/..

2à, He vill maintain a steady sorels throughout .........

15, He v1ll de daterined and u1ll persevere

Jã, He has plenty of personal initistivo..

17o He Is capable of acting independently burt needo guid

16. He le capeble of assuming responsiblity under gul

1º He selcomes responalbility ..

20. He eas command othere ...

21. He will make a good organtser

22. He has good plaming ability

2. In Is a docisive type of persor

2. He ln clear thinking

25, He usea his Intelligence to best advantage

26. He reports his general health as

® В д

27o He has selfeconfidence ..

28. He la enotionally stable

Addstional Comments

S-E-C-R-E-T

688S i

6059.70289 251

---

