# 104-10322-10265

## Page 1

104-10322-10265

0-148 (707.89 888-639

SECT

SECRET

Federal Bureau of

Investigation

June 5,

1964

By Liarson

Pec'd CHI

8 JUN 1964

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

ATTENTION: Deputy Director, Plans

Dear Sir:

For your information, I am enclosing communications which may be

of interest to you.

No further investigation is contemplated with regard to this matter.

You will be advised of the pertinent developmente in connection

with this inquiry.

Status of case:

_ Incomplete

• Completed

Very truly yours,

afoover

Ene.

Directo

Upon removal of classified enclosures, if any,

this transmittal form becomes UNCLASSIFIED.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

TASHINCTON 25, D.C.

SECRET

MAY 1 8 1964

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

• Compilation of facto known to date on: domald's

Trip to Mexico and his activities while there;

pallegations by various individuals concerning Oswald's

Mexican contrets

PROPERTY OF THE FBI

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FIL. It is the property of the

FEl and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency,

ECR

T

Group I

Excluded from Automatic

Downgrading and Declassification

ES COPY

201-289248

---

## Page 3

13-00000

II.

(

SECRET

TABLE OF

CONTENTS

' ION

TRAVEL TO MEXICO BY LEE HARVEY OSWALD

(September 26-27, 1963)

(A)

OSWALD's Application for Untted States

Passport, June 24, 1953

(B) OSWALD'S Mexican Tourist Visa

(0)

Results of FBI Laboratory Examination

Of OSWALD's Tourist Card

(D) Closing of United States Mexican Border

(E)

Mexican Newspaper,

"Excelsior,"

November 25, 1953,

Issue re?

OSWALD'S

trip to mexico

(F)

Checks Made on Compania de Aviacion

Passenger Manifests for September 26-27,

1963

(G) Check at OSWALD's Port of Entry

Into Mexico

(H)

Check of Flecha Roja (Red Arrow) Baggage

List for Passengers for November 26, 1963g

Flesha

Trip from Nuevo Laredo to Mexico, D. F.

(I) List Obtained of Entry of A1] Non Mexican

Citizens on September 26, 1963, at Nuevo

Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico

Persons Interviewed In Mexico Who Entered

Mexico September 26, 1963, at Nuevo Laredo

-A-

SECRET

Page

5

7

8

14

26

---

## Page 4

13-00000

III®

SECRET

(K)

Interview of ROBERTO MORALES, Driver

of Flecha Roja (Red Arrow) Bus No. 516

from Nuevo Laredo to Mexico City on

trip for September 26 and 27, 1963

(1)

Interview of ERNESTO HERNANDEZ, CO-drIver

of Flecha Roja (Red Arrow) Bus No. 516

from Nuevo Laredo to Mexico City on

September 26 to 37, 1963

OSWALD IN MEXICO CITY

(A) "New York Times" Newspaper Account

(B)

OSWALD's Visits to Cuban and Soviet

Diplomatic Establishments

Investigation by Mexican Authorities

(C).

Other Inguiries by Mexican

Federal Security Police

(D)

Hotel Accommodations of LEE HARVEY

OStALD in Mexico City

1. OSWALD's Registration at Hotel

Examination of Handwriting on

Hotel Register by FBI Laboratory

3.

Identities of Persons at Hotel

During Same Period as OSWALD

4..

Interview of Manager and

Other Personnel at Hotel

5.

6.

Other Inquiries in the Area of

the Hotel del Comercio, Taxi

Stands,

and Bus Terminals

Inquiries in Neighborhood of

Hotel del Comercio

• B.

•SECRET

Page

28

29

30

30

35

42

46

47

47

48

53

57

68

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

Page

Interviews of Guests at

Hotel del Comercio

8...

Reputation. of Hotel del Comercio

OSWALD'S DEPARTURE FROM MEXICO

(A)

Interview of HERBERT ROBERT VOORHEES,

Passenger on Transportes del Norte Bus

Traveling from San Luis Potosi. to Nuevo

haredo on October 2 to 3, 1963

(B) Checks of Records of Other Bus Lines

58

59

59

60

62

(C). Transportes del Norte Passenger

List for October

• 2, 1963

63

(D)

Record of Location of Transportation

Sold to f. O. let

(E) Interview of ROLANDO BARRIOS RAMIREZ

64

68

(F)

Interview of Personnel at Transportes

del Norte_Terminal, Mexico City

69

(G)

Interviews of Personnel at Transportes

del Norte Bus Terminal Restaurant,

Monterrey, Nuevo Leon

(H)

Inquiry at Monterrey, Nuevo Leon

Main Offices of Transportes del Norte

77

Bus Passenger ANASTASIO RUIZ MELA

Identified Photographs of IS HARVEY OSWALD

•72

Interview of Transportes del Norte

Passenger JOSE BABRIGA BERNAL

7B

(K)

List Obtained of Departure of Non-

Mexican Citizens on October 3, 1963,

at Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas

79

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

V.

VI.

SECRET

(1)

Additional List of Persons tho

Departed on October 3, 1963; and

Entered on September 26, 1963

(M). OSWALD's Travel Documents and

Mexican Government Records

OTHER INQUIRIES CONCERNING OSWALD'S TRAVEL

(A): Transportes Frontera Bus Line

(B) Inquiry at Flecha Roja Bus Terminal

(C)

OSWALD's Time Of Arrival in Mexico City

(D)

Efforts to Locate Flecha Roja

Passenger List

(E)

Transportes del Norte Passengers

Originating In Guadalajara

(F) Transportes del Norte Bus Line

Operations, Monterrey

(G)

Ticketing Procedures by Transportes

del Norte Bus Line

MISCELLANEOUS INQUIRIES AT MEXICO CITY

CONCERNING OSWALD

(A) Telephone Numbers in OSWALD'S

Address Book

(B) . Possibility OSWALD Sent or Received Money

(C) Inquiries at Hotel Cuba

(D) Jad Alal In Mexico City

(E) OSWALD'S Luggage

SECRET

Page

88

94

99

99

105

106

106

109

110

111

112

112

114

114

116

118

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

(F)

(G)

Arrest, Interrogation and Physical

Condition of SILVIA DURAN

ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA'S Concern

About OSHALD'S Activities

VIL.

(H)

Information Concerning CHARLES SMALL,

Bracelet, Post Cards, Race Track Pamphlet

ALLEGATION BY PEDRO GUTIERREZ VALENCIA

(A) Basis for Inquiry

(B). Interviews of GUTIERREZ VALENCIA

(C) Character and Reputation of GUTIERREZ

(D) Information Concerning ARTURO GAONA ELIAS

(E) Inguiry Concerning ERNESTO MITRANI

(F) Further Interviews of GUTIERREZ

(G) Inquiries Concerning Renault

(H) Information From CLAUDIO OLIVEROS

(I) Inquiries Concerning DURAN Family

VILI• ALLEGATION BY YLARIO ROJAS VILLANUEYA

(A) Basis for Inquiry

(B)

Initial Interviews of YLARIO ROJAS

(C) Reinterviews of ROJAS

(D) Discrepancies in ROJAS" Story

(E)

ROJAS Involved in JACOB S. FLOYD Matter

(F)

ROJAS® Admission of Fabrication

-F-

SECRET

Page

120

122

124

129

129

129

134

134

136

138

141

142

144

146

146

147

149

151

153

155

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

ALLEGATION BY GILBERTO NOLASCO ALVARADO UGARTE

MISCELLANEOUS INQUIRIES AND ALLEGATIONS

RELATING TO OSWALD

(A) Allegation by SALVADOR DIAZ VERSON

Concerning OSWALD and SILVIA DURAN

(B) Information Furnished by ROBERT KAFFKE

(C) Allegation by ROBERT EDMOND GALLANT,

Santa Clara Prison Farm, Santa Clara,

California, that OSWALD was in the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico, D. F., O1

July 12, 1963

(D) Allegation by HECTOR FRANCISCO SERRANO

(E) Allegation by LUIS FERNANDEZ GONZALEZ

(F) Allegation by ROBERT HIMES

(G) Allegation by ANDREY CHAMPION that a

Friend

Of FRANCIS H. FIEDLER of New

Orleans, Louisiana, was OSWALD

(H) Allegation by ALBERTO GODOY that Film

in his Possession Might Depict LEE

HARVEY OSWALD and JACK RUBY Together

(1) Letter to Attorney General ROBCHT &•

KENNEDY from ERNESTO FLORES LUNA

(J)

Information from JOSE GARCIA LUCHICHI

that American Homan In Monterrey, Mexico,

Telephoned Dallas Before and After

Assassination of President KENNEDY

(K)

Allegation that STEVE KENNAN Might

Have Met OSWALD in Mexico

-E.

SECRET

-

Page

157

160

160

162

164

166

167

1.70

171

173

174

178

179

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

Page

180

(1)

(M)

Information from ARTURO ALCOCER RUIZ

Information that ERNESTO RODRIGUEZ,

New Orleans, Louisiana, Possessed Taped

Recordings of OSWALD's Spanish

181

- G

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

IX. ALLEGATION BY GILBERTO NOLASCO ALVARADO UGARTE

The first confidential source abroad advised that

on November 25, 1963g GILBERTO NOLASCO ALVARADO UGARIE, a

Nicaraguan citizen born January 31, 1940, in Ciudad Rama,

Departamento belaya, Nicaraguay made contact with the United

States Embassy at Mexico, D. F., and advised the following:

ALVARADO entered Mexico Illegally from Guatemala on

August 29, 1963, traveled to. Mexico, D. Fo, and subsequently

made contact with EDELBERTO TORRES, A NIcaraguan communist

developed for ALVARADO to travel to Cuba to study guerrilla

warfare tactics.. He had occasion to visit the Cuban Consulate

In Mexico, D. F., several different times for the purpose of

obtaining travel documentation for Cuba by furnishing false

identification papers as a Mexican citizen.

ALVARADO claimed that the real purpose behind his

proposed travel to Cuba was a penetration mission for the

Nicaraguan Secret Service.

He stated that on September 18,

1963, he went to the Cuban Consulate, and while sitting in

the waiting room saw a group of approximately eight persons

enter the consulate and the office of Cuban Consul BUSEBIO

AZCUE •

A person unknown to him was sitting at AZUs's desk.

A short time later, while ALVARADO was standing near the door

to the men's room at the Cuban Consulate, he noticed three

men conversing a few feet away from him.

One of them was a

tall, thin Negro with reddish hair; the second was a man whom

ALVARADO had seen previously holding a Canadian passport in

the waiting room of the Cuban Consulate; and the third person,

according to ALVARADO, WaS LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

ALVARADO stated that a tall Cuban Joined the above

group momentarily and passed some United States currency to

the Negro.

The following conversation between the Negro and

OSWALD was overheard by ALVARADO:

Negro (in English): I want to kill the man.

OSWALD: You"re not man enough. I can do it.

• 157 -

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-000,00

SECRET

pratapene

Negro (in Spanish): I can't go with you. I have

a lot to do.

OSHALD: The people are waiting for me back there.

ALVARADO stated that the Negro then gave OSWALD

$6,500 in United States currency of large denominations,

saying!

"This isn't much."

cur be thi

Of this sum, $1, 500 was for extra

expenses. The

Negro also gave OSWALD about 200 Mexican pesos.

In a later interview, ALVARADO stated that the

United States bank notes were in a small pack about one fourth

of an inch thick, bound with a paper band, which the Negro

broke before counting out $1,500 extra for expenses and $5,000

as "advance payment."

ALVARADO stated that OSWALD had carried a green

passport in his pocket, and he believed he saw OSfAll wearing

a pistol in a shoulder

holster, but he was not sure of this

He stated that OSWALD had long shoes and a wrist watch

with a yellowmetal band. According to ALVARADO, OSWALD

appeared to be completely at home at the Consulate and to know

and to be known by Cuban Consulate personnel,

ALVARADO was arrested and interrogated by Mexican

authoritles on November 28, 1963, and a copy of the interro-

gation report by the Mexican authorities revealed the following:

At the outset ALVARADO's story generally resembled

that recorded above.

He repeated to the Mexican authorities

the details of the scene in which he saw the Negro, the

Canadian and the American conversing together, the delivery

Of the money to the American by the Negro, and the conversation

he overheard.

ALVARADO advised the interviewing Mexican offictals

that upon seeing the photograph of OSWALD in the newspapers

following the assassination of President JOHN F. KENNEDY, he

recognized OSWALD as the American he had seen at the Cuban

Consulate®

An excerpt from ALVARADO's statement to Mexican

authorities, as translated from Spanish, 1s as follows:

- 158-

SECRET

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

spontaneously and after reconsidering he

desires to state that the american to whom be

referred in the body of his statement and whom

he saw the 18th of September of this year in the

Cuban Consulate had a certain resemblance, about

sixty per cent, to LEE HARVEY OSWALD (assassin

of the President of the United States);

That

after the assassination of President KENNEDY the

witness took advantage of this fact in his favor

to exploit it, furnishing versions such as those

initially set forth, for the purpose of provoking

an energetic reaction from the political point of

view on the part of the United States of America

against the government of FIDEL CASTRO RUZ and

that he had no motive other than the profound

hatred he feels for communism.

That all his life

the witness has dedicated himself to combating

communism and be regrets at this moment not having

accomplished his objective in the sense of causing

a reaction on the part of the American Government

against FIDEL CASTRO."

Because of the fact that subsequent to making the

above-mentioned statement to Mexican authorities, ALVARADO

he was interviewed at considerable length on December 5 and

6, 1963g In Mexico, I by representatives of the United

states governnent®

T-17 advised as follows:

After reiterating his story, ALVARADO was afforded

• Polygraph exauination on December 6, 1963. During the course

the examination he was asked, "Is this the American you saw

In the Cuban Consulate?" At the time he was shown photographs

of OSWALD:

Each time he was asked this question, he definitely

responded,

"Yes," but

It was noted that the polygraph indicated

a "deception response" on these answers.

These responses and

those with respect to other questions led to the conclusion

that ALVARADO as a fabricator.

It was specifically pointed

out to hin that the polygraph indicated that he was not being

0 159 m

SECRET

---

## Page 13

13-00000

?."

SECRET

truthful in identifying photographs of OSTALD as being

of a person he saw in the Cuban Consulate, and he was asked

for his explanation thereof.

ALVARADO replied that he had full faith in the

polygraph and would not attempt to refute its results. He

went on to say that the only explanation he could offer was

that he had seen an American in the Cuban Consulate on

complete belief that the person he had seen in the Cuban

Consulate was OSVALD.

On December 8, 1963, Mexican authoritles deported

ALVARADO from Mexico, D. F., to Managua, Nicaragua.

MISCELLANEOUS INQUIRIES AND ALLEGATIONS

RELATING TO OSWALD

(A)

Allegation by SALVADOR DIAZ VERSON

Concerning OStALD and SILVIA DURAN

According to the first confidential source abroad,

che white house at washingtong be, had recedyed a pape

entitled "Possible Psychological Motivations In the Assassi

nation of President KENNEDY" written by JOSE I• LASAGA, 2340

N. E. 7th Avenue, Apartment 4, Miami, Florida,

This speculative paper attempted to establish that

the motivation of OSWALD in the assassination of President

KENNEDY was FIDEL CASTRO or a CASTRO agent and that OSWALD

was so motivated during his trip to Mexico between September

27 and October 2, 1963•

that OSVALD had an extended intervlew with the Cuban Ambassador

to Mexico, whom he met at a restaurant on the outskirts of

Mexico, D. F.,

from where they departed together in the Cuban

Ambassador's automobile for a private conversation.

LASAGA had advised the White House that he received

the above report from ANGEL FERNANDEZ VARELA, an employee of

the Voice of Cuba in Miami, Florida, who received the infor

mation from SALVADOR DIAZ VERSON, who reportedly was in

- 160

SECRET

CS COPY

201-289248

---

## Page 14

13-00000

Funice,

20Nov76

Mr. Cary/OLC requested

a copy of the 'Hoover

Memo". Mr. Evans had already left for the day, so

I went ahead and made a copy of the attached fm the

IG and gave it to Betty/ OLC.

Ed

A checked with

he said it was 0. k.

Ed.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

LUNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

INTERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

J. Edgar Hoover Memo

FROM:

EXTENSION

Inspector General

TO: (Officer designation, room number; and

building)

1.

Mr. E.H. Knoche

2.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

ibnow

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

Executive Regiatry

76-5650/1

NO.

DATE

16 November 1976

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whor

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

SUBJECT: J. Edgar Hoover Memo

REF: IG Memorandum 76-3370 dated

16 November 1976 - Subject:

Washington Post Story of

13 November 1976 "Oswald

Reportedly Told Cubans of

Plan to Kill JFK".

TheCI Staff has located the "Hoover

Memo" which we think is that re-

ferred to by the Press.

voluminous memo consisting of ten

chapters. Attached herewith is a

copy of the table of contents and

the relevant pages pertinent to the

Post story.

dum

Joan H. Waller

Unspector General

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

Special Arterest

Iil6 П8-А.

(EXESUTINE

610

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 16

13-00000

TO

O/DDCI

ROUTING SLIP

ACTION

INFO

DATE

DELLAD

DDCI

R. Hesterberg

S. Bolten

G. Clarke

C. Meyer

F.

Rettenberg

J. Taylor

SUSPENSE

Date

Remarks: Per the cover sheet, CI Staff thinks it has

found the specific memo on Oswald/Cuba/Mexico City.

But if you look at pp/159 160, you will note the memo

states Alvarado, the source, was a fabricator. Hence

the decision at the morning menting to actually

go to the FBI and ask still seems quite logical.

FR

171176

Date

---

