# 104-10068-10152

## Page 1

1104-70068-10752)

INSTRUCTIONS: Officar insignations should be unded in that'TO" staturn.

Under such comment a line

and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the 'TO'" column.

Each officer should initial (chock mark insulficient)

before further routing.

This Routing and Record Shoet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

NO.

H.IN-y1074

AH/III

DATE

5 November 1953

TO

ROOM

BIO

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS

NOV

1953

5

5

Terent, Gender, it its

Ogden

NOY

5

833

MIOROFINEE

JUN ZU 1953

Smyser

Doc. Micro. GER

6 1893

§ NBY

6.

7.

9.

10.

11.

12.

WH/Mailroom

RI/DP

RI/AN

13.

RINU

RI/FI

APR 195O. 51-10

1308

L".

NOV

1 3 1953

seiva

mgm

Dhil

14ug

SECRET

GS COPY

CONFIDENTIAL

72202)

51114468

BSTRACTIX

1 INDEX

DATE P2 DEG 1953

10 81118g

RESTRICTED

UNCLASSIFIED

8935

---

## Page 2

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA

AIR

(Specily Air or Sea Pouch)

F5 1074

DISPATCH NO.

TO

Security Information

CLASSIRCATION

Chief of liasion, Mexiso City

Chief, KHD

DATE -

NOV 13 1953

FROM

GENERAL

SUBJECT

Daniel DuNo

SPECIFIC

MOROF LAS

JUN 2 ú 1963

DOC. MICro: 222.

40 407

I. A check of headquarters filos has revealed that on 16 larch 1952, the

FBI nedo available the following enorandug congerning David Duno TENDLaR

F 1ng, who may be idontical nith, the Danied DUNG described in reference

as a contact of Isdovico HUCITL.

-Te Informition originated at the

San Antonio, Texas, office of the Innigrati

na Maturelization

Service on 10 March 1951.

David Duno Tendler Lang was.

He departed fron the united

On September 30, 1944, one

at Eronaville, Texas via ta

residance, bieneve hot, dex

Toric City.

At that then he

born Normber 7,

1932 at

No. Sh15, Jacued at Mex00,

yours He advise

that his

dovember. fa

in Folando

E palias,

3 on March 4, 1951.

Tendier, aka Daotal Duno, arrived

can Airays enroute fom hie

so to Great horthern lotely dew

ed that he was a Polish citizen

lind.

He hold Polish pasmort

rch 20, 19ks valid for one

16 Ana Valorla Vendler, a Polish →

citizen residing

Vincico

He sta

Cod that ho lest rolend in 1936 and went to Milan, Italy,

where

staynd unt11 1939. Thereafter, he resided at Nice and

Monto Carlo, France, until August, 1941 where he was an opera

singer.

Ho can to Cuba in 1941, where he reaided until Uctober 22,

1942.

has peslaed in Mexico since that time.

Paul 7. Popton

KING

INDEX

FORM NO. =+ on

T COPT

SEGHET

Security afrimation

Штра

Nor. 53.

281-44623

$935

---

## Page 3

14-00000

2.

SECRET

Security Infirmation

TA+10T4

Page 2 :

the time of his ontry 1a 194t, he stated that he was

returning truin a concert tour ln Rio de danairo, Trinidad, and

the Canal'fone, and mas on ute to go on a tour in Canada.

also expeoted to accept a contract with Charlea lagner, an impresario

1n Non Jork City, for & tour In the United States.

No advised that his parenta bud Lived in Inon, Foland, lut that he

belloved then to be dead since he had beard nothing fron then for

•four jears...

The Illos of a predecassor organization contain an Uversas Howe

Agoncy artiolo, dated 9 Jamary 1944 at doxies City, which states

that Dantol DUJO, & Hotropolitan upera singer who was then singing.

nith the laxican opera, was threatened by finister Naw-iN of the

Pollsh Logation in Mexico City with althdraral of his Folish

passport. if hu took part in & concert aconsored by the hid to

Russia Conaittoo.

DUNO at that time was under contract for concert

tours in several Latin Anerican countries.

C/WH

5 Movamber 1953

Distributions

2 = f/1w/ciron

1 - UH/Mailroom

2 - 81/2.

WH/III/

DFB 8200

of 16 Mar 51

RI File: 200-8-5-856

New York - SI-PTS-6

Folder #27

5 so 53

INDEX

SEGRET .

county Into mation

701-44623.

---

