# 104-10513-10091

## Page 1

104-10513-10091

in3tS

SECRET

5 January 1964

MEDRANDUM TOO THE RECORD

FROM

Laureace F. Barker

SUBJECT &

27 Decerber 1963

1.

27 Degenbar.

1 wooting with - vas heid in B's car fros 2000 until 2160 borre

2. GITAl reportad on the recent s1Mag of Teresa PRODIZA Proenza P.3696

and thie vas anda the subject of too cableg to leadquarters in now of her

Laportanco la the 1902) operation, (See 1211 7623 and 15XI 7625) -

i P08849

He had no further information to die= about inle but reportod-that Silvia

bad not rotarned to work at the Consulato mince her rolease fras arrest the

Thila was reported to 925, (S00 MOXI 7615)

Hi' B analoriead for not sarine bron able to find ln the Statos sono

I."), reported on the follaring additional topleas

2. 11-S) had recalrod as of that date only one

Inscribes this to the resentinent caused among Mexican

officlaldon by the strong note receired fros Raul. ROA, Cutan FOMIN, In regard

to tho dutentios of Silvia Duran, Apparensly word had beos passed to Mexican

aficials that they vero to fire the cubans the cold shoulder.

Do Roldolfo RETES, a Madcan citizen who worke in Cuba for the Cuban

E Teatro Polklorico, was recently da torne

Ho caid that rides CASino had recently

remarked that Cusa should use 1ts theatrical group to eary dollars abroad. R$723

Baid that a N. FLANCION and sir othar larialan expresarlos connected vith the

Jeatro da las Naciones In Paria would be travelllag to Cuba In the near fatera

to see what could be done about putting tha Cuban shon on the road.

The sell-noma Moxiean cartoonist RIUS (true name Eduardo DE. RIO) :

who was acheduled to be à guest of the Cuban government at tha Annirarzare

calabration os 2 Jan in farana. did sos rot a Cuban visa.

RIts would be notified directly by

a separato latter of the ressons for tag refusal. Sinee RIUS 1u an outstanding:

propagandiat for the Communist came tecould only conjecture that this

development was relatad to the ron note flap and the Cuban Coromment's desire

to avold antagonizing the Marlean governent further, Inother cartooniet, wo

uses a nans amething like RAM (2) also got the sane treatmento

do Rogello RODRIQUEZ al the Dabassy roseived amo gifto fras sondone

Insido the Crech Abassy at Christmastleo,

An sastrallan senspaperor nened Jultan or Jalllan RORERTSON ves

SECRET

f1375.

...

Po6019

---

## Page 2

14-00009

seid it see vador

MATERING LEARNED AN CIA MEAUQKINTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMITTEE US ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENBERS

FILE: TITLE/NUIDER/VOLUNE:

PADRIELEZ, LOPEZ, FERELIO

26+ 332615

VOL. T

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:_

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD ACENLY DOCUMENTS

DATE

DATE

RECEIVED

RETURNED

15 Ai6 3)

REVIEYED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIETING OFFICIAL

ChanGs Bak

APPRONED FOR RELEASE 1996

MA HISTORM AL REVIEW PROGRAMA

NO DOCUVENTS MAX BE COPIED OR RELIOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

