# 104-10185-10085

## Page 1

104-10185-10085

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reprodyce

TO

IRRO

FROM

SUB'ECT

DISPATCH

ACTION REQUIED

Chief, KUDOVE/D

ATTENTION: James N. RABNEY

IS - 4

Chief of Station, Rome 13

LAURICLE

Special Project Of Interest To RABNEY

FYI

REPERENCES)

CLASSINATINA

SECRET /RYBATLE

RIBAT - 1169

DIRAJ- 25208

SANG SETTES ME ANS

DATE

18 October 1960

132

-ICHECH N' ONE)

MANHID FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INJERING CAN BE JIDGED.

AT QUALFILD HQ DESE ONLY

1. The attached report concerna the latest developments in regards to an

investigation which you assisted in its Initiation sometime ago with the Paris

ODALOE representative.

During your stay here, you requested to be apprised

f the latest developments in connection with this case

Cheslak mentioned in the attachment, for your information, his relation.

to Moses (® Benny) Maschkivitzan, an Internatlonal underworld figure whom we

recently discussed during your short stuy in Rome.

3. If you desire any additional Information regarding the developments

cited in Attachement or background data on Cheslak, It may be advisable to con-

sult with the Paris ODALOE representative. Cheslak has been tentatively identified

as Moise Czesjlak (@ Maurice Cheslak, @ Maurice The Jew, @ Moise Le Julf, ®

Morris) - white male, born 8 December 1902, of Jewish origin, fair complexion,

wears horn-rimmod glasses, small blue eyes, about 5'10", 175 Ibs, medium-heavy

bulld, brown hair, speaks English with & British accent, former resistance fighter.

Cheslak has excellent underground contacts in the Low Countries, Germuny, anc

England. His wife is an ex-prostitute and malam.

HOW ARD F. CLARKSON

Approved by: HUGH R. SHERIDAN.

Attachment: 1 (for RABNEY)

• Distribution: 3 - Chief, KUDOVE/D, w/ attachment

4020

---

