# 104-10049-10354

## Page 1

1104-10049-10354

SESHET

16 Decenter 1959

MEMORANDUN OF CONY9A3AT7ON

DATES

12, 25, and 16 Decaiber 1959

Cuban Politieni Mattere

26 December and 3 January, Them are eight to tan thousand

men avaliable in thn Dominican Republlo who already have

Cuban mfore, bey are volmtours and most are ioniniean..

The taittal target vill be the lolo of Pioes.

CAJIDAS me to leave for Puerto Aloo on 12 Decenber

CAJIdAS iuld ho fools that TRUJILLO Vill collapso 18

the altontion in Caba contimos as 10.10 for the part a1x

months

OTTIRPI said he had roperted the sbove laforsation

to Charles RAIDIO, the FBI agent is itlanta with shon ta 13

In touch.

muTtrO told CATIlAS that PAilEy had pramised that he would

have Infornation on the loitod States official position on the

Cuba matter sithin three days, An laportant peranzago from

the Dominican Bopabite was to cone to the United States on

D00665

---

## Page 2

13-00000

15 Decenbar to mont with PAWlal on 15 or 16 December, TRUJILLO

sald that ho la holding the PillAzA forco intil the United States!

position lu knova.

GoTGAs told GILISPIS that he fears and dialikes

PAVLEY baconso of sono erlier transations in Gaba In valeh

both vero Involvado CAllAS empressed a diathe for bavine

PAHLY support INUITULO alnoo thla might involto sone rutare

commitments.

Os 26 Decenbar GILLIIPIA phoned to report that CAJIGAS

hnd been phoned on the night of 15 December by anaito d

Portaindo: Hutz antd he had senn PAKLEY on the night of 15

December after the lattes bad dined with Flos Fresident HITO.

locording to 1983, PAVIlY elated that he was to noet with

the DCI at 0900 an 16 December, MUHE3 sentioned several senes,

Laare Laa Dominican a pad a te tout one taled tate toes-

mont'" approval.

9, CrazDAs aald that PalLa la having Caneral PEDAAZa

sign noton ja excone of a million dollars. anilais said toat

he doen not Itle the nay the situation 10 developing and he

will step out of the plotire rather than vork vith the generale

and Ta1110, although he wald be willing to work with a group

O. CAdIAS said that GERARD, Who sea hung fran his balcor

I the night of 15 December, was the firet mn on the l1at give

I1.. OILINSPTE esperened personal dlatrust of PANIRY

and sold that ha had discused PAHLAX with &, Grakan MORISOH,

for Asstatant Attorney Caperal nou a prontnunt Washington

attorney, NORIS spole adversely of PAlSI, whom he characterined

aa a creat apportimiat..

---

## Page 3

13-00000

12. OILISIPTE urged that someone contaet CAJIDiS, whos he

connidara ta be a "groat gonttonan." Citana 1s presently

ataying at the Diltnore Hotel In Atlanta, room 603.

according

tO DILIESPIE soROne talad to locato CAIIdAS a coupla of daya

agO. CULLESPIE anted, 18 we had triod to to so and I repliad

that we had not Insofar an I kne. I told GIILISPIS that 19

might be tha BI.

Dono Jo Marras

SH

---

