10d. 10119-10089} ri STATES se :

:.. Memorandu

THROUGH :Chief, Employee Activity Branch/PSD/OS *.

rRoM : H. R. Dugan/EAB ~ : = : :

Everette Howard (#23500) - Wife's Possible Enployment
by ‘Embassy -

SUBJECT:

REF: Memorandum dated 11/7/62 from Subject.
: 52

1. Subject, Chief, R&P/DODS/DD/P, who has({__ Jcover, indicates
that his wife, Mrs. Dorothy L. Hunt (#35576), has been employed by
Commnications Consultants International (OS-NR) which firm does public
relations work for the The firm's contract is to be
cancelled soon and acquaintances at tre[ have suggested.
to Mrs. Hunt that she help them on a part-time basis “dol: translations,
statistical research and occasional letters for the 24

Subject indicates also that most of this work would be done_at home and
concurrence, his wife bad worked for St

coe ee 1955-56. Subject_requests Security appro
for his wife to accept employment with thet 24 There is no.
indication that the request has been coordinate ie ef, DODS.
2
“2. Mr. Central Cover Group, advised that there were no

cover objection: he proposed action.

3. Memorandum dated 1/24/57 to DC/PSD from Bruce folie in Bubject's
file indicates that the employment of Mrs. Runt by the 24,
\? had been ‘approved by the Security Officer y Subject 's

cates that he has been a continuing seuurity ‘problem because of
@ tendency to disregard regulations and established procedures. OS File
#35576 on Subject's wife indicates that she.

4, The proposed employment of Bubject's wife es)
unless for operational reasons, appears to be incompatible with Subject’

employment In addition, although: Mr. Hunt has official cover, his
Agencyf ct e escertained with resultant embarrassment to the Subject,
the Agency or the nation. Accordingly, it is recommended that Subject's

pas

request be pee iby disapproved.
: oe nol lor
0 gurl Peg ea
~ ww  Gonwt |
Or ae
\

to : Chief, Personnel, Security Division, 0S parg, 14 Noveuber 1962 :
|
i
}

