# 104-10088-10137

## Page 1

1104-0088-10137

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

= di:to ..

MEZORLDUN YOR: Chier, VaD for Cuiba

SUBJ2CT

: Bapinosa Allegations

1. Sensitivity:

Regardlass of accuracy, they

A..

present a problen becausa of their baving beeu

prosanted to obser

govergnant aganelas;

B.

in viey of matters toucoing on U.S. security,

are dalicate and could have uniavorabla repercussions

1? repaatod to zersaan by the complainant of his

associates (hose independent, previous threata vere

Of gIester pOtential enbarIassaent);

allect the reputations and the security of our

personael at Hadrid and Paria.

2. Action: In view of tha foregoing, tha allegations

should be pus in proper passpectiva - 1.e.,

Igaored because of the potential encarrassuent

considered in the light of what we aiready kao+

(Alaoat all o1 then are repetitions of previous

charges aud reports, known well to boin the badrid

and Paris stations

and to weadquarters officera

concerned wita tha

ALlASH grOup, whoga mambers

Two Di the charges - about

and abou: AMYHIP-1 and CARRILLO - are hew.);

should be treated so as to protect us azaloat noy

charge of laxity and

so as to establisa the inety but,

at the sade tine, treated so 13 to avoidañriousing

to then nore importance than tury deserve;

C. saould be kept in mind 19 enamoles of othes

chargas thich nay

belandied abor and raported by

AMLASH ETOUP 10

ocder govercental

ober goverzanis or to newg media

fIn tea

connection recall the inplied torest of publianins

On responsibility, do reported greylously by

3715, IN 33534.7;

0003666

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0003865

4

PACE

CoPY

NO.

os 119

---

## Page 2

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

D.

Spould be ecamined togethar with all the other

availabia reporta so that va

inay

(1) clarily our on objectives add vishes vit

Jesper:

to all the salasa group land tois includes

13) sort out which people, il any, ars worth our

time 1n the futurs;

(3) take appropriata passures, including inter

rogation aad polygraphing,

to clarify doubts and

then, when necessazy,

terminate thosa woo are

vorking for us but are not wortarhile;

tigaten up our own operational and secarity

procedures in connection with the Allasa group.

As pointed out in a prelininary

praparing for travel to

1o connection with the Guuors-1

CI3E:

...Ihere is so convlacing evidence that the grop is

vorsing either lor or against the regiua of Fidel CAstrO.

Reports

on thais contacts with us and their discussions anong

chenselves are at variance.

IN 1962 Fidel CASTRO, reportedly

knowing that they were plottlag against hia, talked to AuLASA-1

and seven members of his gronp to enlist their support against

Anibal ESCALANTE Dellunde anù the coumunists in Cuba.

Possibly

they ase playing both cads against the middle.

Paey certainly

nave been and are in contact with the two ende."

Pao following

connenis are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA:

The AMLASh conspiracy - As detailed a

(IN 28634) On 5 April 1965, DUSPORT reporting one neeting

of the Allish groug, including AlaIP-l mentioned the tollowing

sigallicans polnts:

{1) KUBARK waS critiolzed for "Fooling acound Lor

years" without belging zad for jeopardizing too operation;

(2) the group was to be prepared to denonace,

ODORE as responsible if the operation faila and

believed that

the resulting scandal would cake tire Bay ol Pigs seem insigni-

{leant; and

A12AS4-3 w3s in joica with Ciban lutelligence

as established by coded

messages

which

he exhibited.

Is reported bu

noebings with

1532 (IN 32939) 03

ESPINOSA, the problem seen

June 2985.

baged

$301

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0003866

0763667.

5

PAGE

COPY NO.

c2 119

---

## Page 3

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SIES DACY

"he AMiASd circle is wide and each new iracid oi whom ve taco

seeng to bave knowledge of tha plan."

I bellove tbat the

•problem is a nore serious and basic one.

As indicated in

parag apa 3 of the present mavorandun, rict CoCO Lingela

reportodly knew as far back as 1962 that the group mas plotting

agalast hlu aad,

knowing it,

enlisted its support.

Hence a

cannot rule out

the possibility of provocation.

Assassination,

obviously, 1s a dangerous game, not merely to the postors in

a physical sense, but to a spoasoring soveranen: which nay

sufler sevara political repercussions at bone and abroad ir its

involvenent is made known.

In the instant cast,

the risks o2

exposure of the ODYss hand would appear

high, whether there is

a proyocation or not.

Considering the

adviduals who are

involvad directly, their contacts with RUbAnk orficers, and thais

reported pla to espose ODYOKE, persisting in

the plas could

be highly embarrassing to kuzark.

(This is even nore the casa

209 that ESPINOSA bas talked to ODINVY and ODECe, alchaugs

fortuotely the tenor of his complaint was that kreaki had not

Biven adequata support to tha plaa.)

Tha contacts a1

20d ine naccors atlecting

statios. - The "recruisant" of laureen had been

subject di an exchanga of cables betweed

and Headgarters

aad of discussions at Headquartors berisen are and it ord

1073 (IN 66557) and DiR-10955).

The cunoying thing in

this connection now is that ESPINOSA nas talked about it to

ODENY? and ODURCS and the danger that,

11 he is ludiscreet;

his story auous this land the other matters) conid reach sone

curious newspaperman.

(in this connectlon,

it appeass that ths

nescionaola decision 10 put Namean in touch vich the AXLASi

did not sopore any criticism of tha kusaRkors at

is evident thas the AMLASH group knows more abor.

ve night

ESPINOSA DOO1I

Ine questions raised aboat MNuiP.1 arg of mutual

concoralso io llesdquarters which has been conning him and

nice Re nas vaited often

(On the occasion of ay

previous trip i

onethelQUOrs-I case

GROYIPT had voiceu

nig dodota about the whole

Boop and specifically about Audio

ad his connection with(astn.0-19:) -ae 205te 27% 670 0891

points, the krovledge

COnneCtIOn With AD0HI3-1 20d

She charge that 230710-1 has beer

dafrauding lullas in the jerelry transaction.

in mind is the lack that oDwry bas an

Mas tops,

we2l night nave been intored of the allegations and mica nurs:

have been asked for comenta - althouge ODSIVY policy alvaya

han been to Stay 2937

Iron asy investigation of

chuer goverment

unless specifically directed by the Attorney Genera

to invescigate.

BIES DALY

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0003867

0003668

TAOD

COPY NO.

6 o 119

---

## Page 4

14-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CE VALY

an at me

Criticism of tha

the

Station o the Ablasa song is not new.

100ASH-2

and -3 were

but tha

Station hag

The Stacion has

Dean involvad indiractly becauga of regorting by its sources

about and involvement di Statloa targeta with boch tho AyLss

and AbIORLD operations (both bandied iron Headquarters).

(Sa

3933_(1N 72256)_21

-2993 (IN 73094) (bocb RYBAT) .)

dearrags anons gussoat, @ustler-s, Aura12-1 and Aurasa Pigures

produced conflicting reports maich previously were discussed at

nd ai deadquariors.

InsOfar 2S GROVERY hirsalt is

1d, 1i must be kapt la niad that ha is s nacural target

on whom the antisd group would da inclined to focus ity con

plalats.

with regard to the specisle complaint about

"Toba"

CRONIRY has Idantizled her as SusvatT-7 and has reportod tzat

10 Sta?jeT IIOn the Station ever had contact

with ber.

Furthar Involvement of ESPINCSA:

ON I0 JADE ODENYT

notified KUBiPE aI New Jork that AuLaSd-2 had celepboned

ESPINOSA to ask whather he had succeeded in contacting "the

proper people" - 1.9., responsibla lubari representativog - and

in request notice or

the regulting arIangements.

A3NHI3-1: Our plan calls for neating hia next week

to obtaia DRa Information and to obiain clarification of the

roles played by those involved with his in the Allish opezation.

Eis dealings with UNSNA7U-19 3130 will be coverad.

Following

this, an ICILUITER examination la plansed.

This nay help to

deternine whether hs has been truthlul in

his reporting.

Harold &.

SNEBS0N

W3/C/32

SIES UNSA

SEGRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0003868

0003669

7

0119

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

