# 104-10408-10165

## Page 1

104-10408-10165

167!

C/=U8-68

78

1538813

SECRET

FP.P:

STAFF

INFO:

DD-D-D, VR, FILE,

CHOGADHS, CAPES,

E/PCS/LOC,

C/PES/PGL,

DDO-, C/CIL, CHE-SIEEZ,

DDO/DO,

OLC,

(32/P)

PAGE 001

TOT:

0823317 NOV. 78

DIRECTOR 323590

SECRET

STAFF 002331Z DIRECTOR 323590

TO:

PRIORITY

B INFO:

RYBAT KDAFGHAN

REFS:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS ¡HSIA) HAS

ADVISEE HOS THAT IMEY DESIRE INTERVIEN KDAFGHAN I (KAI) IN CONNECTION

WITH HIS DUTIES AS POA, OF THE PHOTO SURVEILLANCE OPERATION IN MEXICO

EMPHASIS WILL

PROBABLY BE ON FERIOD SEPTEMBER-OCTOSER 1963.

HACH COINCIDES MITH VISIT TO MEXICO CITY OF LEE HARVEY OSHALD.

HSCA INITIALLY PROPOSED TO SEND THO INVESTIGATORS TO MADRID

TO CONDUCT INTERVIEN OF KIL UTILIZING STATE DEPARTHEIT COUNTER-PART

FUNDS SINCE THEY HAVE NO FUNDS TO BRING KA1 TO U.S. FOR INTERVIEN.

IN VIEN PRESS REVELATIONS CITED REFS, AND TO PRECLUDE ANY FURTHER

PRESS PLAY WHICH COULD BE GENERATED BY PRESENCE HSCA STAPFERS IN

MADRID,HOS WILLING TO BRING K/1 TO U.S: AT AGENCY EXPENSE TO FACILIT

TATE INTERVIEN AND AVOID ADDITIONAL PRESS EXPOSURE.

THIS, OF COURSE,

PREDICATED ON K/1 WILLINGNESS TO SUBMIT TO INTERVIEN BY HSCA

IN VIEN PUBLICITY DIRECTED AT KA1 AND FORMER STATION STAFFERS

POSITION ON SERVING AS MIDDLE-MAN FOR HSCA WHICH WOULD

CONSIST OF COSTACTING KAL AND PASSING ASCA INSTRUCTIONS AND FUNDS FOR

TRIP TO U.S.

EFFECT INTERVIEN OF K/1.

WOULD ALSO MELCOME ANY ALTERNATIVE SUGGESTIONS TO

FILE:

201-0288248,

EZ. IMPDET.

C/LAIST BIN. STURBITTS:CC

CRED-9127, GREEN-3215)8 COORD;

(SHEPANEK-TELECOORD); LA/ST D/BEF (INFO)MOU

CALDO CHARREND; RELS C/EUR

CL BY 012180..

HE AUTHS

END

OF. HESSAGE

SECRET

• Bi:

---

