# 104-10310-10067

## Page 1

104-10310-10067

UNCLASSIFiED

SUBJECT: (Optionall)

FROM:

7OG/SO

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

AC/CI/ 0G

2.

3.

AC/CI

4.

5.

•SA/DDO (Fulle

7.

8.

AC/CL

CT

= Bob- wall-

10.

11

11½

SA/DID-Mr. Fuller

DCl

12.

File

13.

14.

sse/cl

SANI

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USEOPREVOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION

NO.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRE

P- Gorey Hayes

OswAld

, Lee Haru

/ oug under Gore

2B44

DATE

1731

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INNIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment fo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line ocross column aften each comment.l

o to 5:

Warren Crumission Exhibit

#2774 es an FBI docu

not relevant to the

Sean ray's equat.

- 1274075

Toed. Hayes

the alore.

1NOY

I. 10

CONFIDENTIAL

1220N75

3-7: Janey Mous splast

en Wasse Conemn.

Exhift number is

2677. Can 49

Say authen A

10-113 NB - CE 2677 did not

111/2;

i G nevien y the ball

does not ir

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

vere able to determi

from London as cite tin

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WANIIRETON IS. BUC

I tety 196%.

SUBJECTI

15. J, Ine Ranklo, Comrad Cousio

resident is Comission on tha Assassloatle

of President Kennady

Tae Harray Orald's Arrival Plus 10

in 151all do 10 October 1959

have establabed in the as a grace in a 25 men 196, a1

only direct slight tran London to

Fired in 0 a so 5 2153 1.

255230215

promptly.

lichardlets

Richard Balms

Deputy Irrectar for Plane

COMMISSION EXHIBIT No. 2677

---

## Page 3

13-00000

2070R 691122.91

75-39.21

6 November 1975

I thak

MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

SUBJECT

: Oswald Flight Inquiry by Time Magazine

gra holog.

Uncl

Hayes Gorey of Time is writing a piece on Oswald.

He finds in the Warren Commission report a letter

from Helms to Rep. Rankin. . It is exhibit 2774, The letter

but that the Agency will dig still further to clarify this

This has to do with the passage of Oswald from London

to the Soviet Union, I gather.

Mr. Gorey's query is:

Was the digging done? What did it show?

Is there anything we can do to help Mr. Gorey.

mb

Angus MacLean Thuermer

Assistant to the Director

---

## Page 4

13-00000

COME.

TAL!

CI 459-75

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Assistant to the SA/DDO

Mr. Richard A. Fuller

SUBJECT

Oswald Flight Inquery by Time Magazine

Pursuant to Mr. Thuermer's request to provide

Mr. Gorey of Time magazine information on Agency efforts

a message was received

on 10 October 1959.

It was FINNAIR Flight 852 which

arrived Helsinki at 2333 hours.

This information was

passed on July 1, 1964 to Representative Rankin. Efforts

co ascertain lt there were other more circuitous tights

from London on

that date were explored without apparent

success.

stell

e M. Sternfiel

Acting

Lhief

Counterintelligence Staff

---

