# 104-10051-10106

## Page 1

104-10051-10106]

OPTIONA! FORM NO, 10

3010-104

UNITED STATES GOVE

)MENT

Memorandum

TO

: Files

DATE: 29 January 1954

FROM : M. D. Stevens

SULJECT: THE LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE

#351164

I. According to a newspaper column of "Allen and Scott" in the

Chicago Anerican Of 6 Decenber 1963, on the USWAID Case, Abram CHAYES,

Legal Officer of the State Department,

was one of two persons im

mediately responsible for OSWALD's being permitted to return to the

United States from the Soviet Union in June 1952. The oüher indiviäual

named was Ilevellyn THOMPSON, the then Ambassador to Russia. Another

said to have been involved in the handling of OSWALD's case was Samuel.

WISE, Counsel of the American Embassy in Moscow.

2. Abram CHAYES, 1352234, who as of 16 February 1961 was described

as "the new Counsel in State"

was granted Security approval. for lielson

contact with J. Foster COLLINS (in the office of the Chief of the Covart

Action Staff) on 6 March 1961. The request for CHAYES' clearance ras a

• "Blanket" request to permit discussion with him of NSC 5412/2 matters ci

a need-to-know basis..

3. In september 1961 there was a White.

House namecheck request on

CHAYES' wife Antonia (Toni) Leigh CHAYES, nee: HANDIHR.,

4..

In March 1962, CHAYES was granted a reneval of his liaison

contact clearance with C/CA on a continuing basis. This time his contact

was Archibala ROOSEVErI, SX•

5. On 10 February 1962, HUMAN EVENTS reported as follows

with

reference to CHAYES:

"SOFT ON COMMUNISM: Representative Francis I. Walter (R. -Pa.),

Chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, has

scored the new State Department regulations on passports, clain-

ing they would allow Reds denied passports to "rifle freely the

confidential files of the FBI, the CIA and other investigative

agencies."

The man behind the new regulations, which Walter

claims violate the Internal Security Act of 1,50, is reportedly

State's chief legal officer, Abran Chayes •

Chayes, & Kennedy

appointee, is an ex-Harvard professor who was Chester Bowles?

top legal adviser when Bowles was Governor of Connecticut.

Walter has introduced legislation to renedy the new passport

regulations."

CaJd

do i partis

dellassific list

02680

Document Numbar

127-1029

for FOlA Review on

FED 1077

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

6. Samuel WISE, "Counsel in the American Embassy in Moscow" who

is referred to above, may well be Samuel Griffin WISE Jr., #74574,

SD & SSD, who apparently was once a contract employee on AFACTIVE.

The State Department reviewed WISE's file on 2 June 1954; and as of

September 1962 a Samuel G. WISE was Second Secretary of the American

Imbassy in Moscow. At that time WISE advised in a cable to the State

Department

'DAVIS' case is very sinilar to that of

OSWALD; and he, like OSWALD, lived in the Soviet Union for two years

after his defection and prior to making application for return to the

7. WISE was an applicant for CIA employment in early 1953 and

was security approved subject to polygraph on 11 August 1953. He did

not enter on duty and in September 1953 the office which had been

interested in him vas "no longer interested". On 13 November 1953,

WISE was granted a CSA to permit his use as a contract employee on

AEACTIVE in New York City. His CSA was cancelled on 24 March 1958.

8. WISE was named as a friend of William Orville MUNSELL, $61693-DL,

during an investigation of the latter for possible CIA employment in 1952.

WISE, according to MUNSELL's landlady and social acquaintance in Washington,

D.C. during the perica of about a year which ended. in April 1952, was the

only person she knew by name with whon MUNStut was friendly. According

to the informant, WISE was a student at Columbia University whose adäress

was 423 Furnald Fall. MUNSELL was Security disapproved for CIA employment

in June 1952 because of his close association on a professional anâ social

basis, while attending Denver University from 1946 to 1951, with persons

of questionable loyality. In November 1954, MUNSHLI was of interest to

project FJALIVE with reference to assignment tol

however, the interested office withdrew their request on him, after

Security advised of the derogatory information regarding him.

9. WISE from 1951 to 1954 attended Scarsdale High School in Scarsdale,

New York, which was attacked by a Citizen's Group, which alleged Communist

influence in the school systen.

He had several questionable associates in

addition to MUNSELL.

M. D. Stevens

SEUILT

CHOSE T

Carren dab

---

