# 104-10522-10089

## Page 1

104-10522-10089

Document Number

1395-491-6

jer FOlA Roviaw on

NOV 171

Holmes Alexandor

Double Chork

dealine

:111-9,1

Detail in

• 1'1:0

"opens ing

Harolde

Hudle .d0ne9.

dise disord a sired 00l 1618888

In in dellare the beard. heard.

Chef Dudly Warten. to

So soonalana

-or be ragnual it a

Ent Rels. manager

Anything that

106° (90rnra808n

ducala seill preblaalo.

is more salulary

public affaire

than for

Dress to know

maste than a (un.

a louri

The

or a Connoission

wants

Warren group has been taking a 1

multaplicity

of testimony.

bul has been rolean.

ing only 89.n8 il decides lo release. Even it la

motit+s arr purs, the methods arc

suspect. The

Chief Juster"

has a

reputation for rendering!

decesions that fit his precunceptons

nypeswurth wriler me that he has been con.

ductung a parallel insestagation of testunony, at.

Indavils and ballistic reports.

There is circum.

manual codence which strongly. suggests that

he reporter has a news source friside or

• the Commission.

near

Ile ls positioned to. wield a

whip hand over the most portentuus invention.

loon in American bistory.

svesworl recontly startled the Comb-!

alson with a story that was based on a hitt

mere anpublicied Journal kept by. Lee Harvey-

Oswald.

the allered presidentlal ossassin" while

la Russia. Ornald's trun woids show him in ha

rariltaring loyalty,

winking to the Communists,

nd Been swinging back to bli native country

Whea he

was pro-hussian, he look money fron

the

suriet

sceant

When he

American,

I ward passage at the Amerines Embassy...

¿Because Aynesworth's arlieles are copyright.

ed by

them charies

miro stolens lose losed

Somo of his rerelations have not

reached other parts of the country. but he has lit

sent then to me in full forms.

One of his dig-

alches ciles a source "close to the Warren

commission saving that the Fill knew Ossald

lo be a intential assassin. An Pl agunt is guos.

telling the

Dallas pulice on

Nuvember

22nd:

"We know he was capable of assassinating

the Present,

but we didn't dream he would

do it"

SINCE the FBl is almost sacrosanct In Wash.

inglon officialdom and in the capital press, any

criticisms of its security methods as unusual, and

yel of prime importance in reconstructing the

tragedy and the. mind of the alleged killer.

In

an exclusive interies with Mrs. Marina Oswald,

the alleged killer's widow,

Arnesworth toils of

Oswald brandishing a pistol before his wife and •

saying

"I and göing lo see Richard Nizon."

Ayneswurth gives the story significance by

noting the incident look place only a few days

after Oswald had shot from ambush af General

Walker, whom Dowald terned

"* Fascist

and

compared with Hiller.

The reporter highlights

fore it

the Dallas

Morning

printed bold headines on a story:

REDS SOY STEERED DECIDE TO SINCE

Cuha's

"hero."

As an

Oswald

may have seen the headline. He may have seen

• similar story on the same day in which Cag

tru wid blasted by Governor Connally..

wounded by the same gun that slew Present

Kennedy.

The mind of the alleged killer comes into

Ineus in these

detailed stories it looks like the

same picture.

uf a hatedriven. politically radical

Lettil

which

i#

from

the

small

anunl et news out out by the Warren Com-

CASSAUE

1l the full report follows the especte

ed line. Ustald

shuan as a homiciday a

notoriety

hound,

Communist orient.

ed bur not communut-hured for the cruel deed

is beliered he pertormed.

White o

Manetet

THE NEWS

21 July 1064

LeeHtawsy

OSWALL

(r-

P- 6533

---

