# 104-10076-10375

## Page 1

104-10076-10375

SECRET

TO

DiRECTOR

INWAVE

ACTICA SAS 8

80 de

ADDP, SOD 6,

CA?, calpeG,

C1, 01/009,

D/CIG DD I

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1w, wn 7,

TOC:

DEE 12 8835Z 63 IN 78746

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE. 9927

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA:

•AMICE-14, FROM AMTRUNK-7 WITH PARA I FROM MUMBERTO

MEMBER OF A DRE-SPONSORED INFILTRATION TEAM, WHO OBTAINED:

THE INFORMATION FROM UNIDENTIFIED LOCAL: FISHERMEN AND PARA ? FROM

IRENE

THE WIDOW OF JUAN

WHS RECEIVED THE

INFORMATION IN A CALL FROM MAGDALENA

THE MOTHER OF LAZARO

•PLEASE PROTECT SUSSOURCES.

RID: NO INDEX. FILED 120029Z

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SURL: ARRESIS AND MILLILA YIGULANGE IN IME NORTiE, iA COASTAL AREA OF

INATOP: OF iHA ATTACHI

SEEDINOS CO TOO CABLE HAS T

DO TIRIN

TDCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

RELEANO NO

FIRS

DATE OISTRIBUTED

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

+H•U

RAGE GORO MOM AUTORATIS

SEERLI

DECE ADMITEATION

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

•Comple

---

## Page 2

14-0988

po'd or train i do e

FISCATTON - ORSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

Mes Peel P

COUNTRY

SUMECT

RERONINO. IDES

PRICEDENCA

MEFERENCES

DATE OR

tro.

IS 78746

DATE ACO.

APILALAL

THIS A UNEVAL IN ORMATION, SONICE CRADINGS ARE

FIELD REFORINO.

DEFHUTIVE

APPEAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

1.:

AS OF 5 DECEMBER 1963,

•THE NORTHERN COASTAL AREA OF

MATANZAS PROVINCE, PARTICULARLY THAT IN THE VICINITY OF RIO PALMA

(N 23-P4, W 54), HAS UNDER MILITIA SURVEILLANCE.

2. AS OF 9 DECEMBER, MANY PERSONS HAD BEEN ARRESTED IN MARTI,

ITABO, AND MAXIMO GOMEZ, MATANZAS PROVINCE, AND MILITIA WERE ALL

ALONG THE COASTLINE IN THIS AREA:

3• FIELO DISSEME CINCLANT, GIACSO, CONNAYKEYWEST, USCG (MIAMI):

END OF MESSAGE

CLABSIACANON - DIISIMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

•980881 798L

D109/09101001

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGR/MI

OBERTER PACHIOUS

---

