# 104-10180-10224

## Page 1

104-10180-10224|

. ...

• 1)

19 Septocher 1961

NIXRIDE: FORA C10I, Central Cover Dirtalon

Steva

Io it 18 reguastod that OCD provide cover for lisa, who 1a a

asriract qant, operatine in the lland, Florida, and.

Ide cuter required

lm not for eyeratlinal purposes bus coral, to provido hia sath a suitable

tackstop to maile hia lo entailish crodle, purchase en autocoblle ar

soupe, and to corer ottor nonal scursiles; 1n alfect, cover for statua

The fallodinc Indonation ls keynd to the

Indirieteal."

do Coneral Intormation an igoat

(1) I0ds 19 the 1ulllad request for cover for Suijoot.

(2) Control agent, Balay €9,600 per arms to allomances.

3) On santa 30 June 19u0. subjoet has boen ranted a i A

clorenco rentinE A favOMble ICTUTIlA la Idio 10 nare

of blo LoSo Coverent artillatton tus not inlodgeable of

Ma sasociatin soth the icence.

(4) hyent 1a nos poire oversaso.

(5) 5o0rt hoo tot bosa subjected to rycholordeal anonsent

and lio carriago test.

(i) to oron 007 ladly selecte

(7) 3010ct 10 200ent 10 11on1 and la in urset nood of over.

z//N

---

## Page 2

cd-ionod

(=) Cijoct la not raire crarsasa.

(7) 541100t vill to auriod iner irojoci J'ltE.

Ea Moragtle Inforistion on icart

07

LULOC, MIS LCIT On

Fibens, Cila; Ialo,

Lucsion, miibrrizal ioi

cillzani (r7riois)) (üun)s

Firtiod to

o 2hi2 Mocideito ea tio : iá urar lnt rlo' loçal Nes!diono

(i) sutjocl 10 50% colte ovariando

indoreruduato martig

(3) Oraduato rasruaio vasi (rasters) Inturlelosi Lineulalica

ard Iltorature.

(.) 29512051

rojrecerting varlous

ostiratod $10,000 pos arsan.

(5) l'one

00

(i)

subjoct ruros a good ieprasaion.

lie 1o of sediur kalcht and

Luild, dragdos ccpsostativali, i pledauri cerveraatlonalist,

at' a roat coctand al trylich as vall as Erariao de la a

Irot,un ant rrat ineTicen

(7)

(s)

Duijost is dejendeat dn ila aulssy and la nol inorio lo lavo

any lurro de: to oitstunilaco

Guijoce ma tern in duta but alteniod hlet scteol aral colloce

in tho U.5.

(9)

Su loce arocio crrisi aal Falluh sinalli valle le 15

Tnculodusnto os srenet, Poriitiosa ond italian.

co Socurlt: Conaldarutiota

(2)

Sillocl sua tean in contact vithi the drane-oinco FolJuAT 19.0.

ie res truntad a ioi an 4 dirii 1sio

cn. 30 SinO I9uE, for lso an 1 irincipat erant in i iñiana

Intalliancs note

Terluxi a Coraublo iCrlirini, Saloct las

toen ¡Tantal 1 TiT0 l clorrarco ial Nill lo narictod t0:1v0

aCcoss to lone i undirEs to Mull lu fos "ecroi iniorationo

lo deraiaton Inionaition ls loon dovalojed :: cocurii 1n

irroatifütlona.

(i) Jutl0st 10 isaro of the gerejis Irtarsut.

• 2

ZIIN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

.......

(3)

(3)

sur joct has nurror entered ine gung s inotallation

sadquarte

Jub fact adll be in contact with otter osctract sgunta in tha

timi are

Subjuct has not bean associated with for Identlfled to my

Corale ar donestio intailigence, pallee as socurity servico.

Lose

{6)

(7)

lo

(8)

At this tina 1t 10 not contemplated to sulliva Sulject aster

ho carploton this sealeriant.

(9) fiona

(10) lot appalleable

(22) lions

(12) S0100t1T0 Sorico stor 10

status unant,

Do Operational Inforsation

(2) subject will to angered In FI operationo In Pro'00t dATE

and located in lunt, Florida la ball is painelpal

traindne al eutragers, sto sill lo disasiched to Outa

(2) Sub,0ct Mill to livine and working in the l9, Florida, era.

(3) lot applicablo

(4) lot applicable

(5) 59,600 pEr anE

(6) Farty hours

(7) lot applicable

(8) Fore

3

---

## Page 4

Te our office requires furior infarsation ploses cuntact

Bitension 3ylo jour iscept and expeditious actlor

lestern Honiaphere Diviaion

Distribution:

original & 1 - Addressoe

1 - C/WH

1 - C/0/4

Le MUk/FI-CI chron

/ - Subj 20

WH/L FI-CI

sb1 (19 Septeaber 1961)

° 3

---

