# 104-10150-10038

## Page 1

104-10150-10038/

SC-02164-58

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nor Reproduce

24L

Su=22 dE Initial Missions

In the period fron 20 June to 10 July 1956 the Soviet Bloc zir defense

vstor as subjecsed to eight penetrations of an unprecedented nature, sever

writhin a period of only eight days. It rust be remembered that

aprides tas only basis of judging the performance of the Soviet

However,

some tentative conclusions may be drai

thes: initial flights and these are indicated as follows:

In spite oi the fact that these missions cone as a surprise,

none of them went undetected.

This in clear evidence that their

rader coverage extends abovel

Feet.

24

24

3100

- 23=

TOP SECRET -FIDER-CH955

---

## Page 2

50-02154-58

2. Dy 5 July 1956, the fourth fligat, the USS? was aware

of the purpose of the missions and vere taking counter action.

One positive action was the standdow of civil flights mile the

mission aircraft was over the USSR, and a second action which is

believed related is the moving of MIG-19 aircraft inüo Erst

Germany and Poland on 7 July 1955. Also MIG-19's were noved

into Hungary at about this time.

3. The performance of the Soviet systen on the 5 July mission,

2014,

was indeed curious.

While the action evident Inca COMIN 2 U

is not clear an explanation wnich appears to Ilt the known facts

is ofiered as follows: As a, result of the previous missions, the

Soviets had concluded the essential facts concerning the missions,

I.e., that they were for reconnaissance, that they flew abovel

leet, and that a penetration as deep as loscow was possible.

procably surmised that the 5 July mission was headed for Moscow when

the track appeared on & northeasterly heading.

target whea it entered Soviet territory was prosably deliberate and

"red herring" track returning to the west was either a dodge

or a convenience to avoid brosdcasting a track for all the system

to see that a "hostile or intruder" tas coning over Moscow with no

neans available to stop it.

This idea is supported by the use

of a raid nunber assigned in the rogion just beyona the doint

were the track had been "lost".

In addition, the track #es not

labeled "hostile or intruder" when it vas broadcast after it

had jassed beyond lioscow.

The reporting of the track then it dia

Ropean man caly by Moscow and lt has been suggested toet other

stations had been instructed not to broadcast the track.

Further, it met

on Iay not be a coincidence that the heignt brozacast was alrost

exactly balf of the true altitude of the mission aircralt, but on

the sext missions, four days later, the altitude reporting was

consistently above

By 9 July 1956, in addition to the evident recognition of

the great height of the mission flights, tracking was better and

in gezeral the performance of the naming systen was much improved.

The next day, 10 July 1956, the Soviet air defense warning

ystes closed a 3000 mile track with only two short perioas freet

onfusion or track loss. Altitude reporting was over l

with one plot rassed

which was only 100 feet off target.

99

6. The firsi eight missions proved that the zir defense varing

systen is deployed in depth.

This was evident frei both the continuity

of track anà most forcefully from the ELITT date collecied. Some

intercepts of Soviet Bloc radars operating In the 3000 Ic/s band were

obtained by project ErIlt as follows:

Otiner 30.

These nunbers cannot be equated to in-

dividual radar sets since the same radar lay be intercepted nore than

Twere located, including

new sites.

additional

7 signals were identified but available inforiation

does not permit determination of location so that it must be con-

of the limitation nt ELINI to the

practice of sollocatizg radars on different frequencies the totzl

number of radars may be expected to be at least double the numbar

of sites.

TOP SECRET - EIDER- CHESS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SC-02164-58

Confusion and track loss seaned to be related to the 89

prosense of large nunbers of fighters althougn ice saturation point !

has not been determined because of insuflicient data.

The question of radars for height linding, the carcoilities

of

in this role, the introduction oi ROCK CAKEs and later

develorments are discussed in another section. It is believed,

however, that these missions were a catalyst in tbe introduction

Of ROCK CAKES.

99

→ 25 -

TOP SECRET - SIDER- CHESS

---

