# 104-10186-10042

## Page 1

104-10186-10042

INFORMATION REPORT ENCORMATION REPORTA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

A, F.H.C. Bon, 191 dsd IN. lho iranienton or rorelation of whirh la any mannes lo as insulturind person la prabbilad de lau

S-E-C-R-F-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Telephone System In the Direccion DATE DISTR

General de Intoligercla (DGI)

CSCI-316/02300-65

2 June 1965 .

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

AETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Proproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. (Februaty

• 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATEL INFORMATION: SOUACE GRADINGS ARE DESINITIVE APPRAISAL OS CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

2.

In addition to the ordinary telephone system in Havana, there 1s

a government telephone systen which uses the exchange name PIZARRA,

connecting all offices of government organizations and government

sponsored enterprises.

Each goverrment office or enterprise has

at least on: PIZARRA telephone which is distinct from the regular

telephone systen.

In the Direccion General de Inteligencla

(Goneral Virectorate of Int-lligenc: - DGE) Headquarters,

there

1S a PIZARRA telephors controlled by Manuel PIÑEIRO Losada'g

"*" building.

If any member

on sensitive business through

the PIZARRA exchang?,

state his requirements to

Vidalack when she as acqutred it,

make the call for him and report the informa

or go to "d" building and

make the call hirself 'on

the PIZARRA telephone.

With the exception

of PIÑEIRD's residence and offici,

where he has his own PIZARRA

1o other Doi oifice has a PIZARRA telephone.

no directory for PIZARRA cumbers

and it is not a dial system, but

works through a central switchboard with opcrators; it is

The caller picks up the telephone and gets an

operator on the central PIZARRA switchboard; the caller asks for

the offier to which he wishes to speak, and, if he knows, asks for

the person to whom he wishrs to speak.

A DGI officer whose office

e" 23-2555) and

askelos Vidallià Lato "sy" kuilding on the regular

Each DGI office has a number of private (as opposed to PIZARRA)

telephones:

the Departamento de liberacion Nacional (National

Liberation Départmalt - 44),

cutside the "M" building headquarters,

for example,

there ars six telephones.

From these telephones one

dials any number in the telephone directory, private or a govern-

ment ofiice nunber, direci.

For internal calls within the DGI,

5

4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIEN

DISSEN

2i57

2

STATE

! DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

CINC'SO F

(Mato, Fiald distribution indleated by " #".)

i NAVY

I&NS

1 AIR

INSA

1322K

T ося

FBI

2

INFORMATIONtREPORL

WHC/CA_

_1WE/5/K

WHC/VO

C17RS5

NAC/RE

20-2

#HC/OS

RIDIAY

WHC/WAVE

TOTALS WHC 8 (1), WE: 1 (1), CI $,

RID

INFORMATIONERERORT

TE?

IE]

L/WA SILI

LX-2350

NP

(AIDIUG-1)

CSCI-316/02300

65

COORDINATINI

LIA180N

---

