Ae

iia ance . RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

wore Clves Oo
classify to Fae
AMEE FO FILE m8.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE rorae conics

roe aol] «
agsteoy Oars.

SECRET 8817462
5 2
PRIORITY DIR and cite (maDRtis0s

HS] KEYWAY PBRUNEN GISNAFU AMLASH
‘RAO Nsao(iy 764 244.

REF A GARD 340(7
B CBB a(V 85657), 4

c ob 19968 (NOT SENT Gard

D ibe 6546 (NOT SENT Ean

E (WADD 6595 cxOT sent gan)

le ror@anid * VICTOR ESPINOSA ON RETURN PBPRIME TOLD ODURGE AND
ODENVY OF ARLASK CONSPIRACY; CONTACTS WITH AMLASH 2 AND S, csévaru x,
MIRRLEES; CRITICISM OF “RUBARG STAFFERS at aos, INCLUDING GROWERY;

DEROGATORY ALLEGATIONS ON(QUBPORT, CQUSWIFT Ee ee SCARE
IW ACCEPTING AS SERIOUS JOKING RECRUITMENT BY A 3 FOR SOVS;

bd ibe tliat at @eaRDanons BOS, DICK, MAUREEN, LUIS FERNANDEZ,
(uftswaru 93 CLUMSY ATTEMPT USE ANWHIP aca inst @NGNaFU 19 WHO WITTING
OF AMWHIP TIES WITH KUBARX; AMYHIP POCKETING DIFFERENCE BETWEEN KUBARK
PAYMENTS FOR JEWELRY aND AMOUNTS GIVEN To@BNAFU 193 GENERALLY INEPT
HANDLING OF AMLASHES; NEEDS OF AMLASH 1 TO VET PROMPT REPLY ON KUBARK
ATTITUDE TOWWRD HIM. SABETAY 1S AWARE OF DETAILS ABOVE AS TOLD TO

j

LANGOSCH BY ZSPINOSA.



&e:
0,
2. FOR DIR: TOTA, GIRL NAMED BY ESPINOSA, Is(QiewiFT ite, REFS
Al
:

DX ANIBD ) SHE NEVER EMPLOYEDCQD6E3 AND NEVER IN CONTACT KUBARK STAFF2RS
on

ies
Cane PHOTOS OF MATERIALS WHICH ESPINOSA CALLEJ CUIS CIPHERS AND

MICROFILM WERE FORWARDED HQS 19 APRIL BY REF C. REQUEST RESULTS OF

Has STUDY. ‘i
3.  STOCKWOOD LANGOSCH MEETING TO DISCUSS ABOVE AND REF B MATTERS

MaY BE PROFITABLE. LANGOSCH WILL TELEPHONE STOCKWOOD FROM PERPIGNAN
qo DETERMINE IF FEASIBLE FOR STOCKVOOD MEET HIM THERE OR NEARBY PLACE.
IN VIEW STOCKWOOD PREVIOUS assisaxent(T ASSUME |NO SECURITY *
ya" :
PROBLEM IF HE SEEN BY(guANTUM. :
be =

SECRET. : Chere:
et fp pian Tht LOKo8"- eee]

Hp RP! fi r ta

FN:
ALN

