104-10185-10224) 7

Vue : RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
: Do Not Reproduce
NEU RMALLO NCES rarer POA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
“Tots mara cootaios tnsormation afecting the National Delease ‘of the United States within 130 weaning Uf the Reploaage Laws, 11:
RUBE. Gece HU and TH tbe or reraation of woich 18 any feraner to AB Uunsisbortend pervoa te probibited By law
eee SECRET

_NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SCI-316/00255-64

COUNTRY = Cuba : REPORT NO.
SUMECT . Draco or Draque ESCALANTE ,—> PATE DISTR.» 20 July 1964
: NO. PAGES 1

: REFERENCES

Date oF ©1964 .

piace & Washington, D. C. i

DATE ACA. Tuy” FIELD REPORT NO.

Tee. "MIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT {S TENTATIVE. Y

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

1, The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

2, It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned ‘im the personality reports without first
checking with this Agency.

ALE
Draco on DraquefESCALANTE, /pseudoriya Ciro, "is an officer of fi
the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - Gerieral Directorate of
Intelligence) stationed in Cuba, 1

Headquarters Comment.

1, The’ records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information on
: ESCALANTE.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

eon
ore

(wae Te Tar T way Tae Trea Te

IXCLANT __CINCSO #__I&NS

(ane: Fahd diribvrion Iniconed by “=~

iF oa 1 C
-|NO PROJECT
(AMMUG- 1)

SRW CLA ME
OR MEMADE SLBA A oor

