# 104-10255-10208

## Page 1

104-10255-10208

SECRET

Headquarters Field Office

Date: 25 November 1957

TO

SUBJECT:

Chief, Investigative Division

RATKIN, Spas T.

#134669 GV-IB/5

1. listed below are the results of the RI checks scheduled In

connection with the above-mentioned case:

A. SERVICES - No Record

NPII

See Attached

B. ARCHIVES - No Record

NPII

See Attached

2. The result of the k check is attached hereto.

Plit

WILLIAM P. CURTIN

Special Agent in Charge

DDS/I&S

ADos, laytachment.

KIheck Results

SSD. Chiets Memo

Dep Chief

A. It Chiel

A 1. Dep

Ad & Trng

Ch Ino Br.

Ch Sun Be

Ch C&R Br

Dust 1s - b

Desk S8 •

Desk CRB =

SECRET -

---

## Page 2

34-00000

- i :

20 Toranbe= 1957

SUBJECT: RAIKIN, Spas I.

RI document 12-7-10-575 is an intelligence report on an zirfiela

in Bugaria, source of wich was Spes odorov RAININg Zaravko

Kostadinoy DAMIANOV and Stefan Fetrov PruEranOV, three Irudo.aks

who on 6 lay 1951 deserted their unit and nade their war to Flovdiv

and then to Greece.

The reason for their cesertion was to join an alleged illegal

group worling in the mountains south of flovdiv. Unable to race

contact with the group they wandered around the mountains obieining

provisions froy relatives and frierds. Unable to hold out arr

longer they entered Greece on 19 June 1951.

Through interrogation it was learned that spas fodoroT fiNIt

was born 26 October 1922 in Zelenikovo, de is single and has two

brothers, Petur and Stoyu, who are farmers in Zelen oro. His father,

Todor Petkov flnti, is living and if also a farmer. subject

finiched the Theological Seninary in Plovdiv and the Theological

Faculty in Sofia.

He then taughi for one year on the sofia Faculty.

On 5 April 1950 he wes called up for nilitary service and assigned to

Bezmer airfield until 22 December 1950 when his unit was transferred

to Balchik airfield.

.found it world ba impossible to do so inside Sulgerie, be decided to

escape to Gresca and join such a chruch goup there, if such existed.

If none existed, he desired to form such a nilitant inlegal church

group to fight cormunism inside Bulgaria.

A coemon 22-2056 25 e deaten on chies as steion, thoray

dated 3 August 1951, which encloses a report fror

sowce.

The reoort states that

has questioned thres

Bulgerian refugees who were brought fron Salonike on 19 July 1951.

they are: Spas Todoroy RATKIl, Straiko DAMIANOV, anù Stefan Patrov

PALTIKOV. They will be housed at lavrion

---

## Page 3

-2-

20 Movember 1957

15-16 RI document 12-7-5-147 is a dispatci fron Chier oi Station,

(Athens,) dated 6 August 1951, enclosing an essay by Subject on the

Trudovak Service in Bulgaria.

The Trudovak Service is a military

oxganization formed to procure manpower for construction contare.

The covering dispatch states that it was reported that Subject

was one of three Bulgarians who were brought down froz Athens fron

Salonika on 19 July on the request of •

FI document #201-129455 (DF2-73956) is an FBI report dated

21 Hoverber 1956 at Cricago entitled "Vadinir Tyexoff MeTChNiS.I;

Internal Security-3U." The report was forvarded to CIa on 3

December 1956.

NETCHKARSKI is identified as a Pulgarian political exile wao

became disgruntled in the U.S, und sought to return to Turkey.

1 It. RAKIN (larginal note spells nace Spas RATKIll) was sent to

Chicago by the World Council of Churches in New York to assist

METCHKARSKI.

Ri document 12-7-6-27 (SOD3-1225L' dated 12 September 1951,

is an intelligence report concerning ine Zulgarian Orthodox

Church prepared fron information furnished by Subject who considers

himself an ordained priest in the Bulgarian Church. In preparing the

infornation Subject used the non de plune Frezviter KOSHA.

The

field station comments that Subject was brought to Athens froz

Salonika on 19 July 1951 to work for

R1 document 201-91430 (DFB51628) is an FBI report dated 10

April 1957 at New Jork entitled "Ilia Vangelof Georgief OURDOE;

ISternal Security-BU."

The report was sent to the CIA on 19

april 1957.

Reference to Subject in the roport sims from his position

as secretary of the Bulgarian Escapee Frogram of the Church Forld

Service, 215 Fourth Avenue, New York City. His only connection witi

OURDOF was in an official capacity.

Jane a. A..

Special Agent

headmarters Field Office

---

