104-10211-10064) cae

Storey

9 August 1965
SUBJECT: Report of Interrogation of 6 August 1965

1. Today's session was from 1000 to 1200 and from

1305 to 1410. As planned, ( started the session by sun-
warizing for Subject the results of the first six sessions,
liating for him approximately twenty points on which he had
failed badly. (Summary list attached.) At first Subject
attempted to contest the points as I cited them, for exam-
ple, on the variations in the KOBULOV story, and on the
location of ROZHENKO's office, but when I gave him the
facts he did not challenge them and he listened to most of
end litany in silence. I told Subject that the results of
sessions had confirmed further the previous findings.

? asked him why he continued to cling to his legend, and

reminded him that he had turned down the opportunity

offered to him last spring to change his mind while we

still could take.steps to preserve his operational useful-

ness. I said that this opportunity was now past, but that

I did not want to conceal from him the fact that he still -

had knowledge and information which.could be useful to us.

However, there was a-time limit even to this. I reminded

him that he had been out of circulation for a long time

and that many things had happened in the world and especially
. in the Soviet Union during this time; for example, KHRU-

SECHEV wes no longer in power (Subject's comment, as e:

pected, was "Thank God!"). Otber changes had taken place.

If Bubject did not make up his mind to tell the truth, his

490 days could easily turn into 4000, and he would not be

of interest to anyone. I told Subject again, that he had

nothing to fear, no matter what he had done in the past,

that we would not prosecute him for any past crimes, n0

matter how bad. If he were worried about reprisal from

Soviet security organs, I told him that we were just as

cepable of keeping his confession secret as we were of keep-

ing secret the fact that we knew he was @ provocateur for

@ year and a half before his defection. I promised him

TN atin ise tee ctor

po



that he would be givem normal living conditions ss soon «
as he started to cooperate by telling the real truth. (A
complete transcript of this part of the session is being
done for the record.)

2. As expected, Subject’s only response to all this
was that he had told the fruth--with allowances for mis-
takes on minor points of detail owing to forgetfulne
and that he would continue to tell nothing but. He
that despite hig grievances over his treatzent he con-
tinued to be willing to serve American Intelligence in any
way he could, short of returning to the USSR, of course.
He complained that I denied and contradicted everything
Be said, great and small, and said that be could see by
many remarks that 1 had made that I thought that he had
never served in the KGB as a staff officer but had perhaps
been an agent for the KCB. This, he said, was completely
excluded, and I should know that it ia not possible for
the KGB to recruit the son of a minister as an agent. I
replied simply that ! sasw of several cases ehere not only
children of ministers but even more important people had
werved in thias capacity.

$3. Another interesting remark that Subject made was
that be fully appreciated the fact that his knowledge was
rapidly getting dated. He mentioned that this applied not.
only to his knowledge of the KGB, but also to what he
knew about prominent moabers of the Central Committee of
the CPSU. I said that he had not provided snything of
interest on this subject, and he replied that there had met
been an opportunity, implying that there was much that he
bad to offer in this field. It is planned to explore his
knowledge on this next week. i

4. Subject complained that we had not checked his
story sufficiently and pointed. out that thousands of boys
had studied in the same schools as he had and that we
should be able to get confirmation somewhere. Here he made
an interesting remark as follows: ‘Incidentally, when I
first came here I understocd from something that Mr. Peter

id that you have operational contact with |
‘ Be was also in the Baku Naval Preparatory

#

eos 7
wk
wee alae,



5. Subject was questioned in sowe detail shout his
duties as a ECD officer on the big public holidays. Sub-
JjJect's description was generally accurate, and even quite
good ag long as he kept his answers general. When forced
to be more specific he made 2 nusber of mistakes about the
procedures involved, such as insisting that instructions
for the holiday were issued by the chief of the department
without the participation of a 9th Directorate officer,
about the preparation of the duty and guest lists for
passes, which lead se to conclude that he did not stand
duty there as o KGB officer. He was unable to remember #
single delegation that he had been assigned to watch, al-
though he maintained that he had pulled such duty every
Year since 1957. However, on the basis of his otherwise
very good familiarity with Red Square and the procedures
ef parades there, I would conclude that he has attended
rhs than one such event as a guest, or perhaps with his

ather.

6. After the luncheon break, I started to question
Subject os his first marriage. As before, Subject was
wneble ep unwilling to remember any of the data that would
enable us to pin this story down. He does not remember
exactly when he set Telegina, the date of Telegin's arrest,
the date of the marriage, the location of the ZAGS office
where the marriage was registered, or even the year of
birth of iis wife (1928 or 1929). Subject siuply made no
effort to answer these questions, and for this reason the
questioning proceeded to Subject's first passport.

7. Asked where and when he received bis first internal
passport, Subject said that he thought it was in Moscow in
early 1944 befoxe leaving for Leningrad. Reminded that this
was a change from his previous story that he had gotten
hig first passport in Leningrad, Subject replied that be
hadn't remembered it, and that in any case he also got a
passport in Leningrad. Asked to describe the purpose of
the internal passport system;-Subject's answer would ebar-
rasa any real SCD officer. Hoe insists that all Soviet
citizens over the age of 16, except those on active military
service and prisoners, have passports.

&. Asked to describe the surroundings of Ul Narodnaya,
where be lived from 1956 to his departure, Subject's answer

ec

8 Mat enemas Ma ete ew



4.

wes im general quite good. As before, he vas unable to
name correctly the city rayon in which bis reridence vas
located.

®. Asked to describe his entry into the Naval Pre-
paratory School in Leningrad in 1944, Subject at first
geve @ vague and unsatisfactory anaver, and when pressed
for details he became irritated and said that his father
had arranged it all po blatu. The session was ended on
this note.

wenn ies peipesnatenasennenospepeigegeeseeaananepeoeceesneases pasiieesaas



7 Seen
“i Ce

ui
= Sout

5.
List of Points Reviewed with Subject on 6 August: i

1. ABIDIAH and other operations (simply a reminder).

2. Registration in Moscow tpon arrival from the Baltic 7
on leave.

$8. KOBULOV, VAKHRUSHEV, and the recommendation to the
MVD.

4. Procedure of issuing visitor's pesses to the HVD
buildings.

“8. Unescorted access to the 4th Entry to see KOBULOY.
6. Location of ROZHENKO's cffice. The Sth Entry.
7. Anketa
a. Doesn't know its name;
b. Filled out in 2 copies;
ec. Filled out only the anketa and autobiography;
d. Filled out anketa at home;

@. Doesn't know the lichayy listok po uchetu
kadrov;
2. Posluzhnoy Spisok; ‘6
@- Secrecy agreenent;
h. Size of the anketa.
8. How to rum 2 name check. Mixed up the varicus archives
and was uneble to describe correctly bow to check a -
Boviet citizen or a foreigaer.

Doesn't know entry date into HYD. : . 4

> SEOTEL.

ates rttatineminrnenens am sine

I”



lo.
Me.

13.
14,

17.

6.
Did not take an entrance medical exan.
Doesn't know bis salary correctly,particularly when
they atopped paying for rank and when they restored
renk pay.

Mixed up the two General SAVCHENKO's, and doesn't
know about one of them at all.

Gastronos.
Bervice in the Baltic:
a. Sovetak;
b. Railroad to Baltiysk;

c. Doesn't know Chief of Intelligence, 4th
Baltic Fleet;

a. Doesn't know commanding officer of his KEP;

@. Kow says he spent only 4 months there;

2. Doesn't know elementary geography:
Primorakiy Kray instead of Kaliningrad
Oblast. E

Doesn't know in what directorate he served; FCD or
BCD; doesn't know when or why they were redesignated.

Wife's relatives werg in France. Logical, but doesn’t
know why there waz no data on them when ran name

Knows the basic structure of the MYD in 1953, but did
mot name almost half of the directorates and depart-
ments. Doesn't know the functions of the 4th and Sth
Epetsotdels, or how the spetsotdels used to be called.’
Doesn't know the deputy ministers under KRUGLOV.

Komsomol:

a. How a secretary is elected;
b. Regulations;
C. Mame of the Komsomol Secretary of the EVD;

!
|
t

!
|



arty

st

Rite
7.
d. How he registeied and deregistered;
e. Age;
f. Mewberahip dues;
g- Komsomol Congress.

19. Doegn‘'t know about special stamps on MVD passes under
BERIYA and KRUGLOV. Couldn't have entered buildings.

20, Doesn't know date or even year when KGE czgenized.
21. Education:
a. The trip to Baku;

b. Three year course of study in Naval Prepara-
tory School;

¢. Extension - Correspondence courses at Mining
Institute;

@. Doesn't know what subjects taught in 8th,
“ 9th, or loth grades.

Se tr ee ee tee eee

