# 104-10183-10131

## Page 1

104-10183-10131

AC!

CLA5948,

9

Tie at t

•SECRET

SECRET AUNT 204

DIA INTO GRUS CITE CARD 1458

1

TYPIC: ANGOZE ANNER

REF (PAPS) 1256 15 5 37/

+ f 10/2r60420578

I. SOURCE POLL AMOGLE I NOV. 20-5 (1N19747)

2. ROSELIG POSTENEDRO CITED PRUSJI332 HAS LIAISON DUTIES WITH

GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE IN MIS FOREIGN OFFICE JOE.

NE IS CONCERNED PARTICULARLY VITY MATTERS RELATED TO PASSPORTS

AND OTHER DOCUENTATION REQUIRED BY DOI PERSONNEL. PRONTENEJRO IS.

¿ONS TIME FRIEND CE AMBIE ONE SHO SAYS HE COULD EASILY TALX WITH

HIM DURING VISIT EUROFE.)

9, CUEAN AMDASSADER TO TRANCE ANTONIO CARRILLO CARFERAS IS

NOT, AS HE CLAIRE, À CLOSE FRIEND OF TIDEL CASTRD, HE HAS ONLY

THE TYPE RELATICLCNIP VIEN FIDEL INAS ANY GUERT AMFASELGER NORMALLY

MASO CA ILLO 85 AN ANDITIOUS APLE POLARICIAN AUG MIS FAST NOMA

WITH THE CURES FINCLUTION AE NOT DOTE PRÄT dO AN ACTINIET

(in selec?

---

## Page 2

Hi: 5:45E

SECPET

2' PAr. 2:

ACTEA OF NEVANA, WHO HAS INFLUENCE WITH RALL CASTRO.

GAINED RAUL'S FAVOR DURING THE REVOLUTION SY HAVING ATAS AIROSOPPED

TO CALLS FORCES IN CURAN MOUNTAINS TO THE DESPAIR OF THE DIREGTORIO

EVOLUCIENARIO, THE SROUP TO WHICH NARANJO BELONGED AND WHICH

CONSIDERCO MI. A TRAITON THEREAFTER.

120-4

EN164895 THIS INFO ON NARANJO

7535

USED AS FIELD CONMENI TO CART) 7337 NOT SENT (BRUS.

CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO ALGERTA JORGE SERGUERA IS A CLOSE FRIEND

OF FIDEL.. (CARRILLO IN THE PAST MÁS SAID THE SAME OF SERGUERA,

WHILE INCLUDING MINSELF IN THE PICTURE.)

W.3%

SERGIO SOLON, CODE CLERX AND DO! OFFICER STATIONED IN PARIS,

MILL RETURN TO CUEA SOON BECAUSE OF UNDESCRIBED DIFFERENCES BETUEEN

KIM AND ANSASSADOR CARRILLO. PANCOZE LEARNED THIS BY OVERHEARING

TELEPHOSE CONVERSATION UNICH GUILLERMO

CARRERA INFANTE HAD RECINTLY

WITH PARIS.

CLOEGEMEREIAL COUNSELOR JOSE RIVERO LEFT BELGIUM PES SA OCT.

BER (PART) 1851- (785 13)

TO INDEX MONTENEGRO, CARRILLO, SERGUERA, TOLON, RIVERO.

SECRET

3/108

---

