# 104-10164-10036

## Page 1

104-10164-10036

SECRET

COUTING AND RECORD SHEET

HNSTAUCTIONS

PRICA TO FILING

Fill in Sect. 2

and to Sard 202 pack, DAA tet lap

Destroy troat cover sheet, unless i reoords

ngalca i acton laken or comments requir-

ing pretertation

FROM:

- TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il blo no and atle shown are not proper.

insert proper lie no. below and forward

document to RID,AN.

PROPER FRE NO

HID/AY 5 C

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FHL IN SECTION I ON BACH. IF APPRORMAVE

COMMENTS

206 sout t SK/O/W'E

GARCER NAME TRACES INITIATED

PRCENED

WE /I/N

13/5 711

BY RID SENT TO-02/1/N

3.

WE/1 CHRONO - DETACHED

SR/RR

1=4 to tha?

Ny TImes article on the

couple is attached

pem

RID/AN

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1-11: ph. 190308

this dressant th

+01-194288 ge

RACH RSIT

imes

181/1712e8

14,

RID/TI

Maker

AUSTRAGI

INDEK

E5423 4/4

1 1/3R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

SECRET

PROCHSING ACTION

MARIND FOR WIDERI

IX!

NO DENING HOUNFI

Chief, SE

OChled of Station,

ACTION ROLATO - REFERENCE!

ACTION:

14 - 4

MACHOPILA

For Your Infor

•c1on and Traces

Formarded Heronica do & SATINNOOD SOpOrE. IrOn a Beaman

who unile In Odessa on 2 April 1964 had a five hour conversation

wIth one No111o BLOCK, hos husband, a diesel engineer, and daughter

Ilm. The report will presumbly be of Interest to ODENVY• Iraces

are requested on Subjecte. The 20 April 1964 1esu0

• the New York

Attachment:

Or1g & 2 00 01 report, /w.

Distribution:

2C/SR w/1 00

1 ee att.

atte

/Eul

CHOU RAPINCH TO

CRUE

Turger wo

deely 1111541970

•A COPY

22 [оной) 17708

SECRET

(Refiniss Sue 1896 fitnes

th. B: patients antenan

(Ma, e4) returned to

the н.5.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use On

Do Not Reproduce

201-174231

DATE

14-2 7/4

19 April 1964

HOO PHA AL

25(04-2-911

1. 5/BG

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Apr11 2, 1964

Cases Monting with Amerlean Easily Elici.

A lionarian sounan bho was in ODEiSA On April 2, 1964, had

diffseulty in finalia the eltyle largest hotel.

ahile has was

searchi,he was approached on the otreat by an huerican-speaking

woman, hull l:Luck, the offered her assistance.

she was with her

nusband and dughter and told him that they were American eltanens

who had lived. anung other places, in Bronx, lew York, but had beun

The following decribea the occanion in greater detail:

The mource was lin the Incerelub (seamon's club) in Odessa

where to tried to buy husslan caviar.

He was referred to the

hotel Odeasa. A hostess at the club

said that there were two

hotels by that name in the alts.

He was to go the the largery.

and she explained to him how to get there.

The nource tried to find the hotel but got lost.

Twice he

asked Huasians but wis not understood.

The las: time was on the

"boulevard."

Suddenly a woman's voice called out in inglish from

the other nide of un adjoining street, whereupon she came over to

the source followod by a man und a young gift.

In fluent Amorican

the anked the source if he wore inglish and said that her husband.

and daughter were American and living In Udessa. Without any par

ticular chuse both she and her husband complained loudly about con-

dition in Odessa without any dunsideration for passerg by The

Bussiane to whom the sourer had addressed himsalt stood around a bit

before they went further, othurwise there did not appear to be anyone

no notiond the musting particularly.

The source explained that he

was on hin way to the hotel viessa and Invited the family to accompany

him. They retuned st firet because they were not dressod well enough,'

they had some faim work, had junt picked up their daughter and were

on thelr way hias, When the nource insistod, they allowed themelves.

to be pursuadade

there wore no formal introductione, but during the

corversation it came out that the fanily wus called BLUCK and the

wife'a firet name was Wielle

201-194231

Motel Granna was lockted in the vloinsts in a olde strent which

led off feum tha boulevard, se the entrance to the restuarunt they

worn stopped by a maltroon so protested in sunslan.

After some con-

versation batmion Mollle arl the waitress they were allowed to enter.

Mollie unt the wattrues hail thoushe the snuchter me too young but

hud piron 10 because the datelter nes 10 the company of hor larente.

19908006901

nd sons outta hate rene do aral do it gent,

Coel# 165960007-08305

22

23

... cinda.. di.

21BR

---

## Page 4

SECRET

--2-

beberior, bare prostitutes.

¿veryone has alcaly crossed, coralfering

Ekat 1e ms musia, so the Elick farily's reservalia seemed to MaTe

had a bealso a anitr-so shoned the source and nia party to a lable.

to lse ass-tant of the bloce farlly as moll sa the source, the

fErns spoke uncerstandable inplish.

stinica were ordered and the.

source ad his quests sat in Che restaurE for bout 5 houro. As

they eid earlier on the boulevard, the couple spoke frooly and almout

lastse care that the conversation as not overheard by schers. Al

the closest cablo sat tuo prosticuen no sere entertatned by correl

different officers.

It did not appear that thoy vre interescod in

the source's party.

The source guessed ALlIS BOSK'S aRe to be about 15. inall und

plump. Corpletoly black, allhtly curly hair mich hid her ours. lark

(boo-clack]) eyes.

she was on the whole quite numelly

bu1lt with short fat li-ba and quite mist-retive. jurce toll that

she zight be a Jewess with some slavic backpround. she appeured intellf-

gent, culck and effective, hectie, vory egocentric and somewhat doin

atingo

she was unusuelly talkative but a poor listenor. she ajoke.

perfect huerlen and, as fur as the source was nble to judge, wich

a New York accent, and possessed the quick humor which is typlond in

ten Toric.

she was dre:sed in a tailored coat of a greenish colours

worn dress of poor quality,. thick woolen stockings, flat and horn

#h08в.

95. BLOCK (ils first name was not mentioned) might be between

40-45o About 183 cm tall, slender, blond hair. Colour of eyem not

noticed.

right be of Baltic descent.

Appeared to be passive and not

particularly intelligent.

He spoke little - possibly because he wan

interrupted by Mollie as a rule.

Spoke definitely American but 000

•tonally found 1t difficult to find certain vordo. He wore an old

"Ixpence cap, & faded scarf and an old worn cout of grey and dark prey:

herring bano patiem which he did not renove in the restaurant.

Ine daughterig firat name seemed to be TINA. According to 10111e

the ins 11 gears old. Comparatively tall and Blender, black 191re

Large dark eyes, fine features with a sliphtly crooked nam and

somewhat sharp nose.

She appeared pretty, but the source could find

no real family likeness between her andeither of the paranta,

€h1141t.

spoke only Russian and kupt to Mollie the whole time..

wore a dark burgundy coloured coat.

Molite sald that the whole ranily was born in the U.3.A. and

and montly lived in the Bronx, Nur York, but aluo for a time In tun

Transisco.

About & years ago they had moved to the Joviet Undia und

11vod in Odenda.

Thoy were still american cittiona, The souran kn

pressed nin aitoniohnent at the foot that thie me ponsible, my

Hollo reluotantly told thit hi. ilock had been a member of the for

Moden inurion Conmunist Party and that they had therefore pollen a

vas La che soviet Unton.

mhen the mource doubted that they anuid d111

no Acrsean oleinone, domile unld that thelr persports wure in boneow.

• seen winch anyone coule estauren by rocerrina do the imerlim vonmad.

---

## Page 5

SECRET

the address and are lt to the surce..

Shortly after their arrival in dessa they renlised Chit this

was not then they mad expected.

they incediately began applying to

Musslan authoricios for persission to retum. the applications had

been saturned with vurious commints, usually that they hal toço to

other Russian authoritles.

riving any results.

fils had gone on for soverel years sithout!

they had aliost resirned themselves.

wut if they

were over to retum to the l. j.do, they mould settle quietly down

soneplace and not tell inyone that they ha: been in the sclacos sories

endon.

K. Plock said that he was a "diesel engineer" and the conversa-

tion revealed that he kriéw a good deal about diesel machines. ile did

not say where he horked, but complained that he was sent from job to

Job without being able to concentrute on a special ar:a as he had

done in the u.s.A..

As a matter of fact this was an error in all of

the sorking. life in the soviet Union, he said. lo one specialized and

no one could do a real job in a particular area. is. Slock earned

something over 40 rubels per month.

Mollie Block was a teacher at the polytechnical institute in

Odessa.

A chief at the polytechnical

Institute imt earned 90C rubels per month and had his own home

ty the flack Sea, she said bitterly, as an example of the fact that

the class differences were as great in the Joviet Union as in the U.3.A.

Both told that they were unpopular among heir colleagues and among

Russians in general because it was their custom to criticize conditions

Had we not been American citizens we would have

been sent to Siberia long ago, said Mollle. Hoth despised Khrushchey.

Conditions were no better now than under Stalin, they thought. dow there

was corruption in all areas. Mollie sald that unly 3-4, of the popu

lation of the joviet Union were accepted as mombers of the Communist

Party. No one got into the party without having worked hard to do so;

but 11 on 18 the sor of a Party efticial (pomp) it 13 easier to do so.

In the beginning the lanquage had been e diffloulty ( in spite of

the fact that they obviously must have had a knowledre of luesian be

fore their arrival in the joviet Union.) "Russian has too many synomyme,"

Kr. Block kept repeating while they talked about the lanquuge.

On the other hand they had been fortunate and pot'on a two-room

apartment for 19 rubeln per month. It did not come out how, for example,

the kitchen was cuipped, but they connidered thomanired lucky in

compariaon to Huenlans in comparable roostione, Hollie wrote rom. the....

address: PulaTOrCaoY rOnaDI 18, APT. 32, ODillA - Ua31, and the source

mao imited to violt them or to urite to them.

The sunner vecarion thay had spent an a little reort tow in

the viainity of DATUM.

There the food - parloulnrly fruit and veres

tablo = was much chenper and better chan In Unema.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

Is. mock corpiained particulirly s' sut the food in diessa, de

has difficulties sith his sipestion tecause of the black treas, he

clated, It mun not possible to zet nuite br ad arywhere except

In Leningrad and. oscon ard shere where forein turists siayed. de

has porten a physician's certificate saying that he needed shite

broad, vut to no avall. :here wis alsa a shortare of iruits and vege

tables in doesse except when they were in suason ow. the surrounding

agricultural districts.

Transport of such wares from distant places

das the sovlet union did not occur.

They talked a great deal about the U. 3.A., and the source said

that there was no doubt thit ¿ollle was locally familiar with jew York.

On one occasion the source mentioned the place lecharken in connection

with New York. Nollie corrected him instantly, saying that iechawken

was on the other side of the ludson liver and therefore In the state of

New Jersey.

The daughter sat quietly the entire time and stared straight ahead.

Upon boing addressed politely by the source, she giggled childishly.

It 1e possible that she understood something, but she answered in

Russian via her mother and said that the source ought to come home

with them and sce her parrott..

Mollie asked several of the people at the hotel if they might get

caviar for the source, but with no result.

The source and his guests left the restaurant at closing time

in the street ir. block tried to get a taxi

for the gource, but could not get one. Afterwards each went in his

on direction.

•SOURCES COMMENTARY:

The source was aware the entire time that the meeting might have.

been franged.

However, he found no real basis for this.

Ho ma also awaro of some losser Irragulartion during the event,

but those could easily have had a natural explanetion.

The nource emphasizes that they asked him for no favors or asked

him to do nothing except vialt then. they showed no curdosity, amled

little, and "ollie wns too occupiod with what she herself had on her

heart to lioten und undorstand what the source said.

The couple had

no reservatione about sicohol and did not. roaot to the fact: that the

nource drank little and remelnud sober unile thuy gradunily became

quite animated.

SECRET

201-194231

F02-94

1/8

---

## Page 7

14-00000

WMDT MOST LET

U.S. COPLE LESNE

00• Care Then Ast

Wea is How Denies

MOSCOW.

L'ahon at

turt

pet listed

lo ino l'ened states eis.

сали

lee

"TOON COESMSTIALA

bitranse

mani to go bacce

Malim.

bring in

Dj':

8 it

urned dona their reques!

MACLE BEO MILA.

explanation.

maling

ber

applicalan,

Block piended Liat luerA

п'ете

permutted

feltn

ahe

would probably acter

ver parents açmin. Bhe sail

hey

seriously

121

8€

years

old.

with a heart

miment and that her

mother.

bund in one eye, was in danger

of losing her sight altogether.

V.A. Offietnis Hopeful

United States consular

offi-

eins have enken up the Blocks'

силе

with the Foreign Mintalry.

AMERICASS RETURS RI'SSIAYS' VISIT: James C. Melenzie, second from right.

and his sife, left, flank J1r. and Sir. Vitor Pozdneyer and daughter after arriving in

Moncow' by air. At right is Ronald McCown of Portamouth, Ohlo, who helped arrange for

Pordneyess to sisit McKenairy lunt Christmar and McKenties to see Jay Day Ir losçow.

The

officiale said loday

that

they

were nopetul the

couple

pled lo Moscow and appled in'applications in the hope thatloal, he traveled to the Nether

would get perminsion to leave.

confirmed

that

the United States Embassy' furithe Intervention of the consulate|lands with the sane passport.

the new

Blocks

mey had valid papers identi-

passporta.

The

embassy had to consull

wuld bring a reversal of the ntter having altered the date of

ying them an American cil. Washington. Early last year, a joviet decialen.

piration, Later in 1938, off:

decsion was made. The embass

clats continued, he obtained i

Int

the Unlted States Mr.

ibnued & new passport to

1.3. Expinin Hetp

Block was alleged to have been

Block and issued to Mr.

Block

Speciat to The Hew Yer Times

passport by using the name and

Involved in a number of passport a document stating that he was

violations

for

which he might an American

citizen.

United

WASHINGTON, April 28 - Samuel Bluck,

birth evidence of his brother;

be tie troute the met in d

Armed

troubles started in 1957 the

Blocks

when the do sente nay stor

official had

sald

Block

When the Blocks beran to'

when he traveled to Communist)

exit visas in Odessa last aun- flcuitles,

passport dif: make eiforts to return to the

that

China

There was no answer

as & citizen United States from the Soviet

in

deflance

of

a State mer.

inthe was entitled to

their help in Unton,

Department ban. He was later

mlleged

to have attempted

ipite of dosens of viaits to theigetting out of the Soviet Union. basay was instructed

the United States Fm-

to Police by Mrs. Block.

His

diffleulttes

to make

Then, a few weeks ago, Mrs natd, In 1857, when he went when

they every useful effort to get per.

mission

for

then

return

ravel abroad-on an altered pass Block was told by the chlot of 41 other Americans from an in- home. Since every citizen is ene

5016

and, on another occualon.

have

the passport

division

the ternational

youth

festival

fraudalently.

obtained a passport Odessa pollor that their requeal Moscow on a lour of Communiat

in titled to

diptomatte and

sular

protection

Block tells

had been retured.

abroad.

0881™

clais said.

#tory:

Mrs.

they

Heft

the

thel.

China.

United

Last week they renewed their

in

August, 1958,

they had "no niter

States

in

1959.

Mr.

Block

otticials native" but to asalat the Blocks.

crosned the United Btates-Cans

lian

border under a false name.

Anawer Never Came

Then the Fincien rottind dow

to walt for the anawer which

previous trip

and

in which ke

onttle

They Were Interned

Mut things noon went wrong.

Poland

where they ar

rived without a vian, thay were l

interned in a

nonnand hone.

Chinese Embansy

in

War•

acknowledged

thate

The United Btales

tried

them

Blocka

telephone

about

calls.

month

and

Cha

Hoviat

Fimbarsy

the couple and thalr

adopted

daughtar

Polinh

Army

devon to the Moviet Derror,

Moscow, the Formlan Min.

mit thous in a

dewntown

wranding to

Mra.

falselt.

Government, mall fry

thos

Р000

and their monie and eves

Mave them chungo dor Inutdonial

04141

Ilook want in the Chiname

imbaray and

appliar

fur

Weal

Mayling"

Chint

the regular

thin

See in that i was Ver

macapta

ming i do falling,

that

they

could

not go on living at novice dov.

arment expense lilofinitely

They reckled to myrant suvat

asy Does a hell no

Block

had been

a locke

amith

In a New Pork ahlpyard

The

#oviet

offtolal mumsented

that he

go to wuth in luo mune

capacity In the port of Odenna

The of

at won nocepted

the

ney, the

Blocke

were

given

lwo.rnam

anarinent

and

1,100

(01.100) 8 huy furnitue. otto

ankart tonm

whether they

wanter

lo

Enviet nitie

деля,

Mut Mra, Binsk, Whn

WAn

have

thoright.

that

Maotdine.

anir.

a very unhappy,

Ma Bavure ilesellailed

Wut Morme Mind wan sulll a

convinnad Communial,

To a ine

inlore

slide, lie denounced Amar.

mims and

Belling down

In the

THE NEW TORR TIMES

, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12.1961

WAH,

Alnastinfle.

with hle

rockahmp, will party oil

Hale

1001016es) mes an

authorillan reapemathie fo

---

