# 104-10071-10279

## Page 1

1104-10071-10279

CLASSIFIÇATION

SECIETI

DISPATCH

TO

INFO

Chief, SR

EE, COS/O

FROM

-15=C1

Chief, Munich Base

Drai

SUBJECT

REDWOOD/ AERUNAUI

OPHILAR LONS

Implication of ATine MOSPY in their

ACTION REQUIRED

See

Para. 4 belove

DINNAICH SYMBOL AND NO.

12482

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

DATE

operatinex

74-0-32413

F. Fa #2358

22 May 1959

RE: "A3-3" - (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S)

lattention that MOSEY wrote to

Ie fétter, horever, vas mailed from London.

Is not known how the letter got to london for miling, but we assume that it

Was handcarried from Moscow

→ the Muricano London and mailed fror

The letter was

Dase Case Officer in contact with

the distor

it is as Tollous:

Aline NOSBY, UPI

staffer, Moscow,

on 6 March 1959 (in English)

indicates that she arrived in Moscow, is working very hard, finds

Moscow drab, the housine abominable,

Says during hor first weck

while dining at the lationg! soone named san sat with hor party

who asked her "if i know !!

he had seen me at another

talking to UP people) and if I had not your

Frightening®

said I had met both of you and Int it go at that. Saw him again

but avoided same.

My apartment phone 13 tapped,

etc.•*As the

RETURN TO GIA

Sackoround Use Only

Do Not reproduce

Russians open"nur mail, you can write me as

Aline Mosby

c/o American Embarsy (m) Helsinks,

It will be taken by

Hant the pouch to los i

but don't sign your name if you don't

Nuch rush, Love,

in a margin note:

"He (Sam)

asked nothing further atont you.

lic has small, narrow eyes,

recedint hairline, says he's neurotic and unhappy."

Guoted also are

entries in the "/EXORANDUM TO THE FILE" in the

V.

showed

1line MoStY's letter.

J, in keeping

Jians to wite rusty advising her to ask her recently

not dequalntage san Balypi, wether on not he kauld lira to male

contact with

"good day" even though he micht have

the service of the MOb as !!

C's 's father suassed.

been impressed into

16 March 1959

Supplementa1 Intornation:

In the evening of this date,!

in a telephone conversation

reported the latest

¿information known to hine

of greatest interest was the Aline nostr letter about Sam PAVLoV.

personally involved in

interest i,o PAVLOV,

¿and to, discues the matter.

initial reply to losby,!

With rogard

cautioned, rainst manifesting any

ageressiveness from the:.

lie recommended

that instead of sending a note to Sam PAVLOV immediatels,

should first ask sam if he'd like for to bear a message fron Sam

Taking into consideration

mentality, personality and

we fear that he may request that inut

contact several of his friends

in loscow, especially since both

and Moony may feel that thoy

have a secure channel of mail confunication. he fear that it will not

the Soviet Security organs long to deterine that MOSBY is communicating with

the west, bypassing consorship. We also fear that.

will attent to

: 313

CLASSIFICATION

FORM

53b

idOl

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51.20.

51-2BA AND 51.29

WHICH ARE ONSOLETE.

CONTINUE

PAGE NO.

09848

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET HIBAI!

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

12492

have MOSBY perform certain "tasks", wich will jeopardize her position

in Hoscoke

How will this affect the

operation?

We are afraid that

MOSEY will be suspected of participating in some sort of

clandestine

activitles and that she was rather close

"in Erussels for an

extended period of time; that her continuous.

efforts to recontact.

will nost likely not go unnoticed; and that!

nay become suspected

of having clandestine relationships with MUSBY, causing him to come under

Even IS the MVD determines that this relatlonship is purely

still have a black mark on his record and possibly

be prevented from ever going to

Even if the results of MOSBY's

activities if linscow are not as drastic as

outlined above, we fear that

Jwill feel that the his has failed to protect him and the operation,

and he therefore might break contact with us.

lia, ie would appreciate headquarter's

comments

and views

on the above.

Distribution:

2 - SR

1.

FE

2 - cos/G

FORM

10-57

53c

(40)

USE FREVIOUS EDITION

REPLACES FORMS

51-284 AND 51.29

CHICH ARE OBSOLITE

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET RYBAI

PAGE NO.

→ CONTINUED

---

