# 104-10234-10162

## Page 1

104-10234-10162

DISPATCH

Depuls Chine, WISA

LANETAIN

Rote

F90E

PROCESSINO

ACTICIN

BARTO FOR 1SCBiS

to secres ages

LASTACANTERS DEN

AA DOGE SECRE

AATTRACT

Chlet of station, JiwAVE

TYPIC/Uporational/ AMLILACE

Action Roguirod: FYI

lo ANNURAI rosigned fron the AMullAC effoctive

31 Aisint 1554.

An Agent Sorvice Rocord and a Damage

Ropor! aro attached.

2.

ANNIBA-I was a well-trainod commando and radio

operator with a rood record in the AMLiLAC kroup.

He

was well notivated, and vas well-quited

He becare distlusioned with the

operational inactivity of the AlIlAte and reluctantly re

signed.

3.

Thero to little doubt that he will soek omploy

mont with sons cutle croup that will offer hla lue action

he necka. It is possible that he will attempt to goin

AWORLD®

Dun to the fact that subject partlcipated in

Oporatton ZORRO, a caching operation lo vupport of AMLASH-1

and not yot recovored, it in nocessary that subjeet be held

In PHPRIME until it la determinod 18 the cache

19 to be

recoverod.

This hold will also provide a cooling off pordod

in tomas of intormation ho posseenes rolating to the

Attachsonta:

H/w

Agent Service Record

Damago Report

Diatribution:

3 - Addrouseo vintto.

Lack-

/

Andres K. RECTREAN

DUE TYPED

17 Sept 64

DRAPEDA ETHICA ANO PLAINE

UFGA-17781

BasTE CHARTEND

CLASOREICATICA

BECRET

201-320681

# was-6. - 32?

CON ME RETEN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Capacity initil agent quad: Radio perator in emile

commando 5a0up

Hate of Pay sir. an as more?

Fluen forcember: cobiens recirned tree proupe staini that

he wished more ictior and muried to join infil tear.

bag the either me

Manner if chand: verbal by AMSTANTI

Let fteen tengest to

Micants

1734

# 066812?81

---

## Page 3

•

DAMAGE REPORT

NAVE:

ANNUBA- 1

Safehouse and Training Areas Expoued:

S/H 193

8/H 255

8/R 240

8/H 177

Indigenous Agent Personnel Exposed:

ANLILAC GrOup

ANSERUG 1

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

-+9

KUBARK Personnel Exposed:

Irving C. DEVUONO

Kurt &. MAKRICKAS

Aubrey K. PAUKERT

Paul A. KUBIAK

Stanley R. ZAMKA

Paul V. MENDICINO

Charles F. MASENGILL

Alton T. PIRIACK

Fletcher R. THENIL

Known As:

Staff by nicknanes

Daniel F. GUSSOU

Martin C. TARTERS

Indigenous Instructore

ANSHING 1

* ANKINT-18

AHHINT-19

AMPULP. 2

AMPHODARCH

Exposed:

Known As:

B

Lee

Ed

Jerry

ReDe

DI. Miranda

Ted

Frank

Larry

Harry

B11i

Dan

Charlie

George

Raul

Jerry

Dave

---

