# 104-10117-10112

## Page 1

104-10117-10112.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

(Clasaily When Filled In)

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

SEE HR 10-7 BEFORE SUBMITTING TO EAB AN ORIGINAL AND 3 COPIES OF THIS FORM

TO

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATIN:

EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH

THROUGH:

(Operating

official, adminintrative and/or security officer)

03

DATE

4 Oct 1962

161:

Laplores Fee toon tara corcorning his

10SE02S

cönandü da tado setter.

RID Security UtIlcer

NAME AND GRADE OF 2WPY0YG6

Print or type) COMPONENT

ROOM NO. AND BLDG.

FROM

Mores, Dandel-GS/4

DDP/OPSERV/RID/RB/IN

1B4003

1. DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOB WHICH APPROVAL IS REQUESTED:

Private Stady:

PHONE

6727

Engliah Composition - Mrs. Dorothy Ovens

Backgrounds of Civilization - Mrs. Miriam Haskett

World Polltice - Ih1lip l. Burgess

Introduction to Economics - Mr. Willtan Wendt

2. FULL

NAMES

OF ORGANIZATION AND/OR PERSONS INVOLVED

American University, Washington, D.C.

3. DATE(S) OF PARTICIPATION AND LOCALE OF ACTIVITY

September, 1962 - February, 1963

4. REMARKS

Washington, D.C.

In engaging in the requested activity I will make no reference to, or discuss

my CIA assignments or duties nor will I make reference to or

#scuss my CIA employ-

Dent except as authoried by Healerters Regulation 107- Senil Der

REQUESTING EMPLOYE

5. CONCURRENCES AND/OR APPROVAL WITHIN OPERATING OFFICE

FOR COMPLETION BY EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

F0.C0T 1062

Dot?

Seiv

the

Thie..

her been granted for

atty the request

Stuary Division

FORM 879 USE ENVIOUS

EDITION

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

(9-38)

---

