# 104-10217-10001

## Page 1

104-10217-10001

ВИДЛЕЕТ* Я НАМЕ

DATE OF BITA

NOM -OFFICIAL COVER 245

CONCURRE CE

TO!

PLACE

П.Бо

• SECRET ::

ОдТ&

/ОД

ONLY

€ ов 80s но.

2020,974:3

AS RESIDENCE

EMPLOYER

PROJECT

ácle arenations license disa

DON OR

sTAFF

CASE OFFI

RooM 40.

EXTENSiON

Doz

PROPOSED USE

1I A5599

TO BE COSPLETEO BY CCS ONLY

CES/NE CASE 0s

Belon Side!

EES FILE N0.

5-16

Central Cover Staff concurs In your proposal to use subject for the purpose:

indicated.

In keeping withee requirement placed upon COS to maintain an

accurate register of current

activity, you are specifically

requested to advise Cose

promptly by nemorandus when subject has been

activated.

The pseudonyn assigned subject should be provided CCS/

at the

time notification of activation is forvarded.

18 not received in CCS*

Il notification Of fetivation

use aid not materialize. Le year four above date it will be assuled proposed

Il check nark appears here? Information of interest concerning subject

Jor his employer 1s in CCS| files. After operational approval is rebelved,

and prior to making arrangerents for initial, fontact thereunder, you are

specifically requested to confer with CoS

concerning other Agency interests:

possibly affected and the advisability of additional coordination.

If check mark appears here the proposed use of subject require

approval under CS1 240-0, para, 5. Please review CSI 240-6 and initiate

WBOUT TOM.

8-se 2214

F• CCS 1-C110A

SECRET

---

