# 104-10216-10254

## Page 1

104-10216-10254

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR-RELEASE

1

MONATON REPORT?

• CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

6-1CP

LLED DISSEYNO DISSEY ABROAD/ BACKANOUND USE ONLY

coR Cuba/Venezuela/Algeria

SUBJECT

REPORT NO. CSDB-312/01312-64

DATE DISTE

17 December 1964

Cuban Training and Support of

the Venezuelan

Armed Forces

National Liberation (FALN

NO. PAGES

2

• REFERENCES

DATE OF

Barly November 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

BY CABLE

DATE ACQ. 10 December 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ALE DEJINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATTYL

SOURCE

A former high-level Cuban official who was once active in the

revolutionary movement and a confidant of Fidel Castro.

He has

always been anti-Communist and is now strongly anti-Castro.

continues to maintain contact with many Cuban officials

at all

levels of government.

Source lias provided a limited number of

reports which appear to have been accurate.

Usually only a small number of members of the Venezuelan Armed

Forces of National Liberation (FALN) are being trained in Cuba

at one time.

The Cubans train cadres around whom large groups

can be organized.

Transportation is a serious problem when

large numbers of

trainees are involved, especially when it 1s

necessary to travel via Prague.

Fidel Castro Ruz is against sending Cubans as guerrillas to

Venezuela or any other Latin Anerican country.. Since being con-

demned by the Organization of American States Castro is more

cautious: nevertheless be continues to

revolutionary groups in Latin America I'upport the FALN and other

It is rumored that some

money

and possibly arms are being channeled to the FALN through

Ben Bella and Algeria.

3.

In early

November German Lairet of the Venezuelan University

Students' Organization was en route to Havana via Prague.

Latret

planned to work in the FAlN office across the street from the Fox

Building in Havana.'

1.

Field Comment.

the prize for Castro is big, but the more important reason

for supporting the FALN is

its fairly effective organization,

which continues to operate in Venezuela.

"A PORETON DISSENYCONCBOLLED DESSELL

HATE

I DLA

ARAT

NO DISHES ADROND/RAGEGROUND-UGE ONET

REPCINCLANT

TREASURY

100

COMMERCE

Water Field distribution indicted to "*")

UNFORMATION

SA/EOB

Sa/Intel

SA/R

SA/CI

SA/MOB

RISA/ST

SA/WAVE

B SA/SO/HH

CHOPS/UH 2

REPORT

W2/5/R

WE/MADR

WE/3

LAEZ

WE/R

IFBI

22.

ORMATION:

REPORT

WH/R

11 IH/3/R

2 UH/CARA

УРИК1-3071

IZIN-39960

INP (AMLASE-1)

CSDB-312/01212-

---

## Page 2

NO PORETON DISLOY CONTROLLEU DISSENSO DISSET ABROAD/BROKCROL USE ONLY

• 2-

CSDB-312/01312-64

2. Headquarters Comment.

Hoy, 21 November 1964, in an article

concerning the week of solidarity with Venezuela held 1n

Cuba, described German Jairet and Hector Perez Marcano ag

members of the FALN mission in Cuba.

On 2 December

Venezuelan Foreign Minister Ignacio Iribarren Borges said

the establishment of a FALN mission in Havana constituted

a "new act of aggression by Fidel Castro against Venezueln."

i...

...

%.**

==0=2

•==.

-::a

..-"

16=:

F-Z.r -

..:÷

NO PORTION

D198

IS. ONLY

---

