104-10186-10134

SALI
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tam mare! scoteins information sfecting the Maticasl Defense of the United States wram the meaning of the Kapinbase Laws, THUS,
TAC. Roca Ted and THU (Be Wrunsmuta er. Teretation of which Ln Gay manow to an unaatnertand perma UW promiviteg Oy LAW,

' SECRET
i NO FOREIGN DISSEM

' countay Cuba” BEPORT NO, CSCI-316/01210-64
| sumect Rector Pasesal GAAO Porth paTeosre 16 September 1964
-RETURNTO :
Background Use Only wo mors 3
Do Not Reproduce REFERENCES,
; esta
NO” 1964 . : ;
fuce 4 Washington, D. C. : i
DATE AecSeptember ised FELO REPORT NOL t

Tes UNEVALUATED merOmnATiore SOURCE OAADINGS AGE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 18 TENTATIVE,

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. ”

Headquarters Comments
The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by tho source and includes supplemental
Anformation ‘from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency. ;

H Source said that he had heard the name Hector Pascual GALLO.

+ Portieles from Jose Raul VIER, inare: CI-316/01208-64), but
H source has never met gang ted dB, 48 if

Headquarters Comments a
= 2yu .

! 1. An mh a repert dated 2 Decerber
4 1960, said that Hector GALLO PoFticlles, a Cuban Diplomat in
Asuncion, was born in Habana in 1924,

2. A report dated 27 February 1961, from a usually reliable
source, stated that Hector Pascual GALLO Portieles had taken
over Cuban affairs in Costa Rica when the Cuban government
withdrew Ambassador Juan Jose FUXA Saenz on 31 December 1960,
GALLO left Costa Rica by air on 26 January 1961 for Mexico and

ft on 12 February 1961; returned to Costa.Rica and presented
himself to the Costa Rican Foreign Ministry as Charge d'
Affaires of the Cuban Embassy. An untested informant told
source that GALLO and his helper, Wilfredo GONZALEZ Ramicres,
were leaving for Habana on 13 March 1961 and that both

were G-2,
3. A usually reliable source_learned from a source|
jtnat Hector GALLO Portieles

CRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM a
amt Tee Tawa Tea Tae Tra TE eee Te
is Seu CINCSO_# IRNS. = |
oa Tad een awed ed :

ae LX — 1681
4-NO PROJECT (AMMUd/1)

CI1-316/01210-44

eres

re’ HSA 7 (i), WE 1 (2), CX 4, RID I



5.

SECRET :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01210-64

formerly second secretary of that Embassy, is now residing in
Honduras in an unofficial capacity and probably working for the
Cuban Intelligence Sgrvice, This report was dated 20 July 1961.

In a report dated 15 August 1961, it was reported that Hectér
Pascual GALLO Porticles was presently the Cuban Charge d’Affaires
in Mexico City. ile and his wife were renting an apartment ther

In a report dated 10 July 1962, a usually reliable source said ho
saw Hector Pascual GALLO Porfiles in Santiago, Chile. GALLO 18
Secretario Adscript® of the Cuban Embassy in La Paz, Bo’ivia.
had escorted thirty-one Bolivian students from ba Paz to Arica to
catch a Cubsn. plano which transported them from Arica to Santiago,
Rid-de Janeiro, and Habana.

An untested source, in a report dated 21 September 1962, wrote the
following character sketch on Hector GALLO Portieles, First
Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in La Paz:

GALLO, who arrived inf Bolivia in March 1962, gives the

impressicn of being a capable and dynamic worker, with a nervous
He is the person in charge of giving scholarships

personality.
to Cuba. It is said that this job was created by Fidel CASTRO

in answer to a request by the Avanzada Universitaria (University
Ne is seen frequently

group of the official government party).
at the University of La Paz and hns many friends among the
students. GALLO does not spend muph time with the cther Cuban
diplomats. He is in frequent contact with the leaders of the
Communist Youth, and spends a good deal of time in the labor

and other union organizations. lice is also in contact with the

Trotskyist organizations, and makes many trips into the interior
GALLO

meets the Cuban diplomatic couriers on their arrival in La Paz,

of Bolivia which usually do not last more than six days.

and it is said that his correspondence is sent separately from
the. regular Embassy correspondence tu Cuba, He 1s ‘the most
active of the Cuban diplorats in La Paz. 7

On 9 March 1963, according to a usually reliable source, Hector GALLO
Portieles, a Cuban Diplomat, arrived in Mexico from Santiago, Chile,
accompanied by his wife and three children, On 11 March 1963, GALLO

and his family departed Mexico for Habana.

An untested source who was a former member of the Cuban Ministry of

Foreign Relations reported the following information on Hector
Pascual GALLO Portiles in a report dated 28 January 1963:

GALLO is the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in La Paz,

Bolivia. He received his appointment because his brother is an
GALLO may have been a

He is not

important Communist in the Castro regime.
member of the'Foreign Service before the revolution,
very intelligent. His wife is anti-Communist.

SECAE
NO FOREIGN ‘DrSsRM

GALLO

