# 104-10073-10116

## Page 1

104-10073-10116

Tợ

HOM

SANCT

DISPATCH

Chief, Win

Chief, ME

socine Chios of Starson, Hapane 2

Spanteh Delle Aotivities In Cuba

TION MOLAND

Non®

HE1A-7266

2366510-17

DAVI

33

Duo ember 1960

N8, 'ALI' - (CHICE "F ONE)

MAILED AN INDENING

NO NOtHINO NOUND

INDEXING CAN I JUDGED

BY QUALINED NO

Desk ONLY

НIНA-бl7, 8 June 1960

1B, 2587, 3 May 1960

I LOCATED IN CUBA

do On 15 December 1960 AMREEI

trench Investigators AMPAIN l and 5,

furnished the following information on

ALopaha Errantes IMD,

сіла

EKAE

At Ten me?

10 nat In Cuba ir

Ling his abeance he lo being replaced by his brother

Jose A RARRINAS,

Spantme.

aron Jar-llas player. The BARRENAS brothere are both

There are alao provinotal coordinators in the different

provinoes, and some of the muntolpalities also have co-ordinatore.

The ElIsane of the novement aro loonted on Callo Pasco, betagen

Calle 15 and Calle 17, do Fedado, Habana. The exact mumber of the

Location has not you been determined, since there are no olgne to

Indicate in which bulldine 1t 10. This matter la being Invoatigatod

further.

the person who furnished this information, thie person 1o well vereed

In all mattero rolativo to the organisation nod funotioning of tale

type of movement.

During conversations between the investigators and Spaninh

raidants in Cuba It has been learned that the movement has bad very

Ilttlo snocens in 1t8 propaganda work in Cuba.

The Spaniah resident.

•ll say that the leadership of the movement has fallen into the hande

of the Cormuninto who me active, one way or mother, in Spain, It

18 the general opinion that a croup of Spaniah miles in Cuba aro

uning thie movement as a means of entag a living.

ODe of AMPAIN Investigatore has been anlad to be the coordinator

of the movement at the Muniospality of hariano, Imban. le mil scoope

Eat position unless he receives orders to the contrary.

1100-7-021

RETUAN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Neit Aleproduce

15

This mmmont reportedly does not accept

ter clated a certain mount of monty and eithir itole or ipei

1 tudly so thut me of 1t helped the omino soymet sooupt

SHEREE

# 0975

---

## Page 2

14

00

.. CONTHUATON OF: .

ОП PATCA

4 9 EAANьS Mм 6:63

HKHA -7266

arms and equipment.

They are alno gounting on aid fron other

countrier, auch as Mextoo and Venesual.

3. AHREPP-1 Turnlahed the folloud Information on 21 Deoember!

and, 10130 Ballo, there lo a progran oalled "epalla al Dia." Bent

RODRIGUEZ Onana lie in charge of the procran, which is related t

rants in connection with the cubp loverned campain againa

Alfredo CUEVARA Valden th

Irector of Cine Cubana, was mentioned on the pregram da having

called a mootine of all Spanish organisa ione to ask for the rolease

of the politiel prisoners in Spain.

no attached for We 18 a copy of a llysheet put out by the Ejercito de

Liberagion Españtol. Source le attempting to obtain a copy of the magazine and

one of the "bonoe."

aula K. Thyfahl

Attachnent!

Flyeheet

= C/WHD 0/att

1 - C/WE w/att hin

1 - Filed: 0/att

PKT/ fôn

22 lacesher 1 10

21.6-7-21

232ke40

APERTURE

BE CARD REPRODUCTIMS

---

