anager

ouTaie ND. RECORD SHEET

SUBIECH (Opteay :
‘CI/SO Summary on: ‘African’ Liberation Day :
Ex- 10132) *

Cc/CI/SO 19 May 1972 :

TO: (Officer designation, toon number, ond
bwilding) : OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number esch comment fo, show tros) whom

te whom, Dry ainee cerns] celaen ener omen cnnrent)

G/S0 Interzal Use Gnly

This information ‘is not to be

without prior pproval of
Chief, Special Operations
Group, CI Staff. ~~

Based ont

, Doc: see EX
_ Dates
Filed:

SOURC
Cryptonym:see EX
Field Station; fy

DISTRIBUTION:
EX ERICAL FRE (record

T7 Subject. file IBe/ sens
| -ZZ Other:

INDEXING:

oe Ts
CY/S0 Internal Use Gnly

nen BLO mE CREMOUS ET) CECNET.. ST) eneicemenrrias © OT URTERNAL © 0 9 tneeae pean meen



sue NO FOREIGN MSSEMINATIA, iy JISSEMINATION ROAD
om i - ~ CONTROLLED ¢ SEMINATION/ THIS. INFORM, ‘ATION t at. 70
. ieeeeLaE ‘BE INCLUDED IN ANY: OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION
Pcie a CU/SO Internal Use Only

EX-10132
~ 49 May 1972

SUBJECT: African Liberation Day,

-1,° Plans to organize an African Liberation Day ;
. Coordinating’ committee (aupcc) were made in the fall of i
on1 largely asa | result of a a trip to Africa by. Malcolm Xe

aiversity tiie Howard Lamar Fuller. "During a 45

.day- tour, Fuller spoke with leaders of various liberation

fronte in scunere Africa who advised him of. the need for :

: support by black people i in ce United States in the form of

fande a and medical supplies as well as homogeneous political
apport for all African liberation movement, Fuller began
: : = to hiiaaaia the ALDCC for the | penose of mobilizing black *
‘people i in the ‘Americas (the, United States, Canada and the

a _ Caribbean) to beetle tai their F solidarity with the libera-

“tion movements in Africa.
2 The primary financial and logistical hc aah
of ALDCC was provided by church sources through the Inter-

: Religious Foundation for Community Organizations (IFCO) of
.

" which Fuller is a board member. IFCO was created in 1968
.. to aid churches in allocating their funds to mutual-interest

projects of the various denominations, IFCO has also had

CI/S0 Internal Use Gn:
No FOREIGN DiseeMRA TAO DISSEMINATION ABROAD

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION



NO FOREIGN, MISSEMINATIUID AGC UISSEMINATION. RPROAD i

a CONTROLLED &. USEMINATION THIS. INFORMATION IS OT. 10 : . ea ee if
‘ BE INCLUDED IN tis0' OTHER vis if ‘OR PUBLICATION
: il interna se Only

an interest in correlating the ] liberation n struggle in’ the United.

* States to 9 liberation efforts in ‘Africa and in June 197 i

a major statement on South Africa.

- Fuller, the chief organizer and coordinator for

: African Liberation Day activities planned i in the United States

has. a background of involvement in pan-African activit

Fuller traveled to Guyana during 1970 in relation to pan-African —

Projects Siete isa strong supporter of Stokely Carmichael, ‘Dur.

ing Carmiichael’s 197 speaking tour “in the United States

: michael held a small strategy meeting of selected black mili

tants, in Greensboro, North Carolina on 20- 21 March 197.

"purpose of the meeting was to discuss methodology of spreading

i Pan-African ideology and workiig teaeed ‘the total libera
of Africa. Nelson Johnson, member of the National Steering

: Committee of the ALDCC arranged for Carmichael's
to ) Greensboro and attended the private eee along with | i
Howard Fuller,

4, In August 1971 Fuller was the principal speaker :

ata six day conference entitled "Black Identity and So darity" -

held in Dar es Salaam, ‘Tanzania and sponsored by the Co.

sultative Committee of Tanzania (TCC), Irving Davis' Pan-

. African Skills Group and the National Committee of Black

ik OAD
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATICN/NO BiSSEMINATION ABR :
CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/THIS INFORMATION IS NOT :
BE cana is ANY "ee OR PUBLICATION



nalewats

NO FOREIGN(” “SSEMIMATION “iu- DISSEMINATION PT?OAD:

-+> CONTROLLED DisSEMINATIONJTHIS- INFORMATION 1S .0T TO

BE INCLUDED IN'ANY OTHER bacon OR PUBLICATION
His el Use" a

Churchmen (ncBC) which funded the esi ead R
" Maynard Catchings, member of the national steering com-

* mittee of the bine led the group of 28 oa

- clergymen who arrived in Dar e es Salaam on 22 August wn

: to, attend this conference. _ Fuller was in contact bani officiate ie

1 ab chides Communist Embasi any in Dar

7 dade aieenmmmbiee cine this + meeting were * playwright

a following organizations: . ieigeeeni oe ‘ —

“Council of Revolutionary Workers (Detroit)
“Southern Christian Leadership Conference *° * .
(Atlanta) :

. Black Panther Party/USA (Oakland) | ee ie :
Institute of Black World (Atlanta) a
Center for Black Education (Washington, D.C.)

Douglas represented the Caribbean and also served as 5 okes-

man for Canadian blacks in absence of invited representatives |

_ from Canada, aoc to Douglas, The International Day

~ GI/S0 cl Usa Gnly
_ NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION/NO DISSEMINATION ABROAD
CONTRCLLED DISSEMINATION/THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION

SEES


“No FOREIG " DISSEMINATID. MIE JISSEMINATION, ABROAD

ae Lo. * CONTROLLE! _sSSEMINATION/TH!S. INFORMATION t d0T TO
” BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION
C1/S0 Internal Use Only

African Solidar y (DA: . his count erpart to African Li

ation Day in the U.S,, would include demonstrations and teach-

ins and would involve working class people as well as students.

atement outlining plans was to be sent to black organiz

i ‘with Fuller jaa other black extremists in Greensboro, Nozth
SonreEny

“Carolina Douglas pledged to rally ooo people in Toronto and

. to organize corresponding Peace rere the Caribbeaa on

“International a Force, also involved 1 ia Heer al for ‘African
i Liberation Day. IFCO advised Douglas that he and ebeat 12°
other individuals were being requested to attend in the inter- :

*, est of correlating the liberation Serygle on a world-wide-basis.

8. In mid-March 1972 Douglas attended meetings
in Toronto and Guelph, Canada. - At the meeting in Guelph
"one participant proposed that the Trinidadian soldiers arrested
ily ~ “GYSO Internal Use Only
“NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION/NO DISSEMINATION ABROAD

" CONTROLLED DISSEMIXATION/THIS INFORMATION IS ROT TO
BE INCLUDED.IN ANY OTHER. DOCUMENT 08. PUBLICATION nae



<. °° ~ NO FOREIG™ DISSEMINATIONHO OISSEMINATIOR 4BROAD™”

“5° GONTROLLEL sISSEMINATION/TH'S INFORSATIONG. NOT TO -vnaind
_ BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION

uso Internal Use i a |

ie were out on bail could pape be sent from Trinidad to parti- ui i

efpate i in the BS haste demosstrations.
aa

: 9. In Canada Douglas with the help of Horace Camp-_

belt planned to focus attentions on the Britieb, French and Amer-

an Consulates | in Toron 0 ‘and pos sibly. Mo Major

preparations for the au May demonstrations in Canada include.

extensive press coverage in Contrast a newepener r for the :

black community in Canada, | Black Stude

Negro Improvement J Association have sponsored social activ-

Consulates in  Tororto, and rallies focusing on political speeches

fand cultural performances by. New York sete, Walter Rodney i:

reportedly v will deliver the rey note adaress .

: aGs No large guihoneedt estas comparable to those

: in the United Stator and Bccaae are scheduled aoe the Cari- :
bbean as : yet. In Trinidad ‘the parently prevailing political» fo
conditions and firm police control area eee to any or-

- ganized activity on the part of black nate

“G80 lateral Use Only

NO FOREIGN DISSTAIXATICON/ 50 DISSEMINATION ABROAD

CONTRGLLED DISSENNAT! oe ‘THIS INFORMATION 1S NOT TO
BE ANGLUDED iN Haale Qitea CCUMENT OR PUBLICATION



Be ba Qt enn ee ee

NO FOREIG) , DISszt ix DERREL o-ssemmearion BRC :
|

a . _ CONTROLLED. .SSEM IN/TE'S. INFO . cae
coarser BE INCLUDED IN ARY OTHER ‘ee CR “PUBLICATION 4
= ae “— ily |

i, The Government of Guyana pl ns at least to offi-

ae ieee | recognize African Liberation Day as a day of world soli- :

eominige and Prime Minister Forbes Burnham's Peoples' National —

t
i
ae

“Congress 5 is “conducting a campaign in support of world solidarity

with African liberation movements. “Organization in Guyana,

Dominica and Jamaica have participated in. rai ing funds which

were sent to ‘the Organization of African ats (OAU) libera- a

tion committee in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia,

12, “Besides the official celebrations scheduled in

place on 27 May in relation to African Liberation Day. No

organized demonstrations are known to be planned for Zambia -. ©

= 13, Except for Fuller's contact with the Chinese ~
c Embassy in August 1971 and the Chinese interest in the Pan-

- African Skills group in Dar es Salaam, there is no specific

acts = ys0 Internal Use Only

ot NO FOREIGN B'? DISSEMINATION ABROAD

j INFORMATION IS NOT TO
_BE INGLUDED IN ARY OTRER. DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION



NO FORP’“N DISS thie Re D:SSEMINATI pi ABROAD
CONTROLEL. DISSEMINATION/TE!S INFORMATION .3 NOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN’ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION
ay Use Ont

: evidenc

of spénsorabip ox support by foreign, governments “s

” of African Liberation Day demonstrations in the United States.

a ‘ eee (Although to date there lh no positive indica-

a of foreign sponsorship or support hele African Liberation

Day demonstrations in ee United lala and Ganon! there
2 nity: of additional organizational acti

: if to. 27 May. ‘The Black Studies Division of Ohio State Univer-

ity is 7 ponsoring a symposium 20 May : th ‘pur; one of dis-. deat :

‘cussing Iaraeli involvement in South Afr : prthetd and show- an

on 15g support for ‘Afgican and ipesaas liberat

psy iia Use Only
ae ABROAD
FORMATION IS NOT TO

BE INCLUDED IN ANY 0i MENT CR PUBLICATION


~ NO’ FOREIGN DISSEBIRATICR7ES"ESSSEMINATION ABROAD
CONTROLLED” SSEMUXATION TEES BEFSRXATION (-, VOT TO
BE INCLUDED iw ANY OTHER inenal Boe bal OR PUBLICATION

* oS tema

Originated by: poe
Based on: . The Militant, 22 aad 72:
ie *° Contrast, ‘Apr 72

t (Gea ington Post, 2 Apr 72

22(OCOA}16764, 3 Mar 72 oe ee
ert Guyana, 6 Apr 72 Getter *
«FBI teletype, 17 Har 72 fa
Ae it es Salaam)10S7, 1050, 1060 Apr 2
“The iaiesare 26 Ang n :

ug
16745, 29 Feb 72:
16778, 7 Mar 72~
OOB- -321/07672, mid-May 72

: pontease. 15 Mar 72. :
* rt of Spaindlisé, 12 May. 72
iat -}Georget 1052, ve May 72 alte
: yana Graphic, if May 722:
Dar es Salaam 1886,°25 “Apr 72
BI teletype, 5 Hay. 72.

“Sources! cette
+ O2{STSLANT.

1 -. BX chrono ~*~ o
1 - African Liberation Day Sens

39 Internal Ese Only
NO FOREIGN BC hers DISSEMINATION ABROAD
CONTROLLED DISSESISATOS2TE"S INFERMATION 1S NOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTZER ECOUHERT OR PUBLICATION


NG AND. RECORD
SUBJECT. (Optional) ; :
CI/SO Summary on: ° African’ Liberation Day
FROM:

ate

C/CI/SO : 19 May 1972°

COMMENTS {Number each comment to show trom whom
fo whom, Drow @ fine ocress column alter eoch comment.)

GSO tntersal Use Only“.

This information is not to be
disseminated outside CI/SO .
without prior.‘approval of — -
Chief, Special Operations
Group, CI Staff.

Originated by: Vieaver

TT. subject £1 288/sens
TT other: ey

INDEXING:

POM GLO MEER KO ceeoer

J

enucincarreas, FTV. URTERNAL © 2m saetee newerenn.

E. ‘CAL FELE (record y.


NO FOREIGN NISSENINATIONY NO’ UISSEMINATION RROAD
ees SEMINATION/TH!S “INFORMATION ISG JT.TO. 0
BE INCLUDED IN ANY. OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION Gas aa
CI/S0 Internal Use Only |. |
beet los tes =10132, i
19 MAY

-. SUBJECT: African Liberation Day

1. Plans to organize an African Liberation Day

: Coordinating commitiee (azpce) were made in the £ fall of. ©

eupport by black people in the United States

7 funds and medical ‘supplies as well as homo nS

Full

support for ‘all ‘African liberation movement,

. to organize the ALDCC for the purpose a dizi

i - people in the Americas (the. United States, Canada and the

: Caribbean) to demonstrate their solidarity with the libe:
tion movements in Africa, ; i : i : :
2, The primary financial and logistical support oe
of ALDCC was Provided by church sources through the Inter- oe
: Religious Foundation for Community Organ zations (arco)
which Fuller is a board member. IFCO. was created in 1968 oe
. to aid churches in allocating their funds to ‘mutual interest

projects of the various denominations. IFCO has also had

oS te Internal Use Gnly

No FOREIGN piss MINATION/HO DISSEMINATION ABROAD

> CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/THIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION



NO FOREIGN, ISSESINATIVR. Nor LISSEMIRATION PPROAD
CONTROLLED \. SSEMINATION? THIS. INFORMATION ISS. OT. 7
BE INCLUDED IN ANY. OTHER DOCUMENT GR PUBLICATIO

| col ial i aa

: of Africa, Nelson I ohason, member of the National

‘to Greensboro ani attended the private meeting tong w

Howard Fuller.

4. In — inl Fuller was the en speaker

and Solidarity
held in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania and .d sponsored by the Con- : >
- sultative Committee of Tanzania (TCC), Irving Davis' Pan-

: African Skills Group and the National Committee of Black

a NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATICN/NO DISSEMINATION ABROAD
Ey CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/THIS INFORMATION 1S NOT °
d BE INCLUDED IN ANY OER UMENT OR PUBLICATIO!



NO FOREIGN “SSEMIMATIVN HU: DISSEMHATION p°30AD
“CONTROLLED DisSEMINATION/THIS: WWFORMATION IP OT TO cs. pres

BE INCLUDED IN'ANY OTHER poctueyr OR PUBLICATION
Cis0 lateral Use ‘Only

Churchmen (NCBC) | which funded ‘the conference. _ Rev.

Maynard Catchings, slip of the national steering com

“mittee of the ALDCC, led the group of 28 Afro-American

- clergymen who arrived in Dar es Salaam on 22 August 1971

“to, attend this conference. Fuller was in contact with officials |

0 ‘Boston during the 1
i representatives. Attending @ this meeting were <paywright

“Leroi Tones, “Howard

“following. organizations

= ‘Council © of Revolutionary Workers (Detroit) ”
‘Southern Christian Leadership Conference
(Atlanta)

Black Panther Party/USA (Oakland)
Institute of Black World (Atlanta)
Center for Black Education (Washington, D. ©. )

_ Douglas represented the Caribbean and also served as spokes -
.

man for Ganadian blacks in absence of invited representatives

: ipa Canada. races to Douglas, The International Day

~~ GIYSO Internal Use Gnly
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION/NO DISSEMINATION ABROAD

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/THIS INFORMATION 1S NOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY Cea et OR PUBLICATION



NO FOREIGH DissEMINATiD.. MIMS issetINATION, “BROAD
CONTROLLED _.SSEMINATION/TH'S INFORMATION {. AOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION

GI/SO Internal Use Only

2 . . ation Day in the U.S,, would include demonstrations and teach-—

ins and beta involve working class ’ People as eeu as eee

: 1972 in New York City as separation for serving on

ee International Task Force, also involved in planning for African
Liberation Day. IFCO advised Douglas that he and about 12 ©’
other individuals were being requested to attend in the inter-

ae est of Geichieanhiaie the liberation struggle ona world-wide peel

8. In mid-March 1972 Douglas attended meetings
“im Toronto and Guelph, Canada. - At the meeting | in Guelph

* one participant proposed that the Trinidadian soldiers arrested

sree ston

: “GY/S0 Internal Use Only
“NO FOREIGN DISSZMINATION/NO DISSEMINATION ABROAD
CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/THIS INFORMATION 1S HOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCLMENT 08 PUBLICATION



cae NO FOREIC™ DISSEMINATIONTAO GiSSEMINATION ABROAD ~~
“ " CONTROLLEL sISSEMINATION/THS IN FORSATIONG © NOT TO ; ae -{
. BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMERT OR PUBLICATION :

ca Internal Use Only. |

“were out on bail could possibly be sent from Trinidad to pa: foe
cipate in bid Toronto demorstrations.

in Canada Douglas with the help of Horace Camp-

Shell planned ee focus attention on the British, Fre h and Amer-

reportedly will deliver the key note c address.

10. “No large demonstrations comparable bai those

‘in the United States and ‘Ganada are > scheduled for the Cari-

bbean as yet. In Trinidad the currently prevailing political

‘conditions and firm police control are a deterrent to any or- + :

- ganized activity on the part of black extremists,

i “Gl GSO itera Use Galy
NO FOREIGN DIE TON/HG DISSEMINATION ABROAD

CONTRGLLED DISSE TON/THIS INFORHATION IS bay
BE INCLUDED IN ANY O[HER DOCUMENT CR PUBLICA



NO FOREIGN. oisscmixa Beet  oissewmarion ABROAD
_ CONTROLLE pert MINATION/TP'S IY a ( wT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER ‘ts ce i AT
nso _ aly

or “puBLcaTON : oe i

i, The Government of Guyana plans at least to o:

cially recognize African Liberation Day as a day of world soli- «

darity, and Prime Minister Forbes Burnham's Reopies National ce)

#4

_. Congress is ‘conductirg a campaiga i in support of world solidarity

with African liberation biinvecestottay id sec in Guyana, :

jorninica and z amaica have participated in raising fand which

were sent to _ Organization of African os (oav) libera- é

tion ‘comimitize in ‘Addie

“a. Besides the official celebrations scheduled in

African nations to celebrate the: founding of the Organist

£ African Unity, “the ©: ry in lication that any ; African

Z oon Day « celebrations will take place in siriiaaet is in Tanzania

: i bef April 1972, the Se : Secretary of the Chinese Com-
: munist Embassy in Dar es Salaam informed a member of ;
i a ‘Pan-African Skills soup there of a meeting which would take

place on 27 May in relation to African Liberation Day. No |
organized Go emete toad are known to be planned for Zambia
ae i ~; or Kenya,
7 : BL Except for Fuller's contact with the Chinese
Embassy in August 1971 and the Chinese interest in the Pan-

African Skills group in Dar es Salaam, there is no specific

Gitte - GYSO Internal Use Only
NO FOREIGN CICSESVNATION/"@2 DISSEMINATION ABROAD
CONTRCLLED DIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION



NO FORP“H pissearsde eh Ci SSEMINATL iu ABROAD
CONTROLE... DISSEMIXATION/THIS INFORMATION .3 NOT TO
BE INCLUDED IR ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR PUBLICATION

CHSO taternal Use Uely Gi firec ae sa

- evidence of sponsorship or support by foreign governments

” of African Liberation Day demonstrations in the United States.

: i 14. Although to date there is no positive indica-

tidn6f foreign sponsorship or support of African Liberation

Day demonstrations in the United States and Canada, there

to 27 Jae The Black fe Sndien Division of Ohio State Univer-

cussing Israeli involvemei South ‘African’ aprtheld and 6!

ang: ‘support for “Afican and Palestinian liberation moveme,

a About _ persons, inctiting foreiga nationals, are expe ed
to attend this conference and further planning for demonstra-

tions may take place during the conference.

* GI/S0 bier Use Only
eo FoReiex B 3 DISSEMINATION ABROAD
"3h S INFORMATION IS NOT TO

BE INCLUDED 14 “ANY “ORE EOCUMENT GR PUBLICATION



“NO FOREIGN DISSEMINAViuN, 40 DISSEMINATION ABROAD —
CONTROLLED” “SSEMINATION/THIS INFORMATION (>, NOT TO

BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER viet” OR PUBLICATION
ny out

CSO Internal-Use

“Originated by: ” C1/S0:VWeaver:js

Based on: The Militant, 12 May 72

: _ Contrast, L Apr 72

“. 03, Washington Post, 1 Apr 72
22 (0co.

1A}16764, 3 Mar 72
ert Guyana, 6 Apr 72
+ FBI teletype, 17. Mar 72. 7
tH ar es Salaam) 1057, 1050, 1060 Apr 72°
| .The Nationalist, 2 Aug ue

Ug
22 ‘cok 16745, 29 Feb 72.
2%,@QCOA}+16778, 7 Mar 72
- QOB- ~321/07672, mid-May 72°.
Contrast, 15 Mar 72
et rt of Spaip-1186, 12 fe 72
2i-7 Georgetown}1052, a4 May 72
juyana Graphic, 14 May 72
THO. Dar es Salaam) 1096, 25 Apr 72
BI t Letype, 5 May Tae
forsee ee Ol : :

rm

OVERT |
: Distribution: :

_ 1 -. EX chrono cca
“1 - African Liberation Day Sens

“sa Internal Use Only
NO FOREIGN A DISSSINATION/S0 DISSEMINATION ABROAD
CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION/TH'S INFORMATION IS NOT TO
BE INCLUDED IN ANY OTHER DOCURENT OR PUBLICATION
Swe eee CLANTE :
