# 104-10331-10083

## Page 1

1104-10331-100831

#

Secret

11 January 1996

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: ARRB Meeting 5 January 1996

Reference: Meeting with David Marwell, Jeremy Gunn and Mary

McAuliffe, 3:00 p.m.,

5 January 1996.

1. The Board acted on 35 plus documents (Mary did not

have final count) .

They released the six additional

stations that we had requested be protected:

Rome

Madrid

Brussels

Jard the Hague were released again.

was

tabled pending addition information. London, Ottawa and

Paris were also released in this set of documents.

In

addition there are references to liaison contact] and traces

released in several of the documents.

The Agency's

recommendations on digraph and file numbers were upheld.

Mary said, beyond these issues, there were no serious

problems

in this set of documents.

2. I ask how the Board would react to a "window"

approach" to the issue of releasing stations. Gunn said

there appears to be support for such an approach. However,

the window would have to be wider than Nov./ Dec. 1963. He

suggested expanding the window to cover the Warren

Commission period in 1964.

he expects the Board would lean toward releasing it

er would Lean done mention go

If a document mentions Oswald,

regardless of the timeframe.

3. Gunn expressed concerned that our position

being eroded by the lack of a clear understanding of where

the line is (1.e. the Agency's failure to appeal) and the

failure to provide evidence/best information prior to the

meeting of the Board. He felt that we may see some erosion

in areas where the Board had accepted the Agency's

postponements (digraphs, file numbers, liaison). Several

times, Marwell and Gunn returned to the issue of providing

best information/defense upfront. If the staff is unable to

answer questions about why the Agency is protecting or does

not know what a particular item is, the Board takes this as

a lack of evidence and leans toward release.

CC: C/HRG, Ellie

sarry harre sor

CL. BY:-

61163

T.S C

CL REASON: -

DECL ON: —

DRV FROM: -

Secret

---

