# 104-10515-10030

## Page 1

104-10515-10030

SECRET

Palmology ol the Univorolty of Kenned Medical School, Kanad

Cliya Kanes

Loaths be resides in tho kaneno Cly cubarb

ol Prairto Villar

1.

Dr?. Nichole

Pa

Veron

THO

Pooport Tile» at the Departmont Ol State Indicato th

port to December 1950 forthree

medical educaton.

Liverpool la Dec

ember 195%

NOv

business and

pt

eure trip to Eire, the UNa france, commsay

Belg lam,

SwH

erland.

Hl®

inal

Ing addr

the timo wan

Deparement

hel

o8y, Tale Ca

arelty, Now Hoveo, Connecttcut.

Thlo passport

validated for travel to Caechoolovakla and the

GESA La Merch 1956

In la requested thei any seditional Intormalion which

you may poosene on this subject be provided to tha Agency.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Sised: Twers R. Hunt

JAMES ANGLETON

CSCI-316/00659-69

CI/R&A

Dletributiou:

Orig & l: Addressee

1/ - C/CI

l - CI/LSN

1 - CI/R&A

- RID/AN

C1/R&A/Chrono

-CI/R&AL

---

## Page 2

SEGEET

25 FEB 1969

MICROFILMED

APR 4 1969

DOC. MICRO. BER

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director

Federal Fureau os Investigatl

Atteolloa: Mr. S.J. Paplch

SUBJECT

Garrloon and the Keanedy Aogasatnatlon

Dr. Jobo M. Nichola

1. Ds. Joha Merahall Nicholo, a Univoralty ol Kansae

pathologloi, hao leotlled at the Clay Shaw trial chas photogsaphle

:avideaco of Prosidont Kcancdg'a e naanlaation was 'compalible'

with tho theosy that she ialalabos naa idrad irem the froot."

No. i1/

2.

A search os ClA racorda revoalalhe folloulag incormalion

concernlag Dr. Nicholo. OaejDrlLlahnM. Nishols consldored

Identical, wee Rorn 28.11orsh 1221 a6 Charleston, Weot Virglala.

Dí. Nlehola recelved an AB degree Írom Weat' Vlrginla Univerely,

Morgansows, Weat Vlrginle lo 194:, and a PhD irom the Uaivoraity

o1 North Caroliua, Chapel Hill, North Carolina la 1950. Frons

1950 to 1951 subjoet was eniployed as a Prystology Asalatant.

Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Wioaton-Siler, North Corolloa;

from 1958 to 1951 ho was employed as a medical doctos, Uoiveraity

o1 Idvarpool, Hoynl Collego o1 Physlcisns and Surgeono, London,

Foglandi Subject wae employed by lbe Departsnent a: Pathology,

Medical Colloge of Virgiaia, Richriond, Virglois, irom May of

1955 through at londt January os 195%. Newepaper seporto ladieato

that albject lo curreatly employad an sa Asnoclate Professo, ol

1cia

C. -

---

## Page 3

SECrET

Falhology al (be Ustvorolty oi Kansas Medical School, Kansas

City, Kanges, and that he rosidas ln the reness Clly auburb

or Pratate Village.

Passport illeg at the Dopartment of State lodicate thes

Da. Nicholo nao looued a pasoport to Docember 1959 for three

years' proposed tra

el to Gront Drillan lot modleal educatoo.

Thio peesport was

nowad al Liverpool le December 19550.

november 1954 subject was lenued a passport or o to wecko.

bustness and

piesenre trip to Zire, the UK, France, Germony.

Bolglum, and Suitsorinad. Ile hatting aodreas octlide timo uns

Deporemont of Patbology, Yale Colveralty, Now Have, Coonecklout.

This passport uno valldated los travel to Crecbostovania and tho

GESR In March 1956.

le lo requested thor any seditional Inormalion sticb

you may popcess on thie subjoct be provided to tbie Agoncy.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTCH FON PLA:S:

Signed: Junes RiTunt

JAMES ANOLETON

CSCI: 316/00659-69

CI/R&A

LITT

Distribution:

Orig & I - Addressee

• C/CI

_ CI/LSN

- CI/R&A

- RID/AN

CI/R&A/Chrono

• CI/R&A

---

