# 104-10163-10019

## Page 1

104-10163-10019

SECRET

Jes s20

16 May 1963

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Ont

Do Not Reprodu

MEMORANDUM OF CONTACT

SUBJECT : Lion Antonlo CASAS RodrIgue 12011277087)

DATE OF CONTACT : 3 May 1963 (2000 to 3345 Hours);

4 May 1069 (0200 to 1300 Houra).

L. On 1 Misy 1063 I travelled to Harrishurg, Pennsylvania.

und attempted to contact Subject at bia home at

It 1030 hours. Subject's son answered the door and advised that bla

10/0

Iather was out for the evening and wasn't expected to reture till 1200

hours. Al 7300 hours I returned to Subject's home to be advised that

he had not get returned but was expected momentarily.: In view of the

Inte hour, I requested the son tel bia father that a ropreseutative of

tho United Sistes Government had called and wished to speak to him on

mntters portmining to the situation in Cuba, I Indicated I would return

about 2000 hours on 2 May.

S. Al 3000 hours on 2 May I called at Subject's home and found

him present. He was friendly and courteous, requesting that 1 come

"Into the home where I was introduced to his wife and several of his sir

children. He regueted to see my KUBARK Identification which he gave

only & cureory glance before returning to mu. He then indicated his

complote willingnens to supply any information known to him on the Cuban

Ituation and personalitles.

Bubject and his wife make an excellent impressio

They

proceeded to put ma at ease, offered colfee, and generally showed them.

melvos to be ezcellent extroverted hosts.

The subsequent converaation

Justed until approdiatoly 3345 hours and was somewbat genoral in reture.

Besically we retaid iniormation already provided by Subject during

hia debriefing by U. 3 authorities in Miami and alrendy roflected in hia

301111o. Subject was rather difficult to debrief in that his Engalah in

Homewhat fractured and be is extremely disorganized in his thraght».

* his i leniency to davelop one theme which in turn will renind him

CORY:

SECRET

GROUP 1

Enchuted trem selen

Acadaang and

201333408g

3/R,

---

## Page 2

SECRET

-2.

of a second, also al interest, which he mill proceed to discuss to the

confusion of the first. This problem was perhapa compounded by tbe

fact that Subject una uncertain as to the type of informalion of interest

He grasped quicily, however, i be type al information

which would be of most interest to us and ll rapidly became lens difficult

to get to the meat al the subject ve were discussing. Further contact

and debriefing of him will become progressively less difficull.

*. We are consolidating the informaur? obeained from Subject

from our two meetings with him on 2 and 4 May below for reporting

convenlence.

B. Banically Subject 1a able to supply apecific information of

Interest on only five personalities. He knows and was acqualnted with

many other personalities in the Cuban government, but hie reintionship

with them in not close enough to enabia him to provide information in

sufficient detail or depth to allow valld assessment as to iheir nuncep

tibility to a recruitment or other operatlon. approch.

B. Information on five Cuban government offieials, well known

8o subject in set forth below:

Erublo AZCUE, born about 1013, 1e presently

employod as a consul at the Cuban Embasay In Maxico

City. AZCUE is a long line friend of Subject. Thoy mot

during the mid-1950's when both were involved lu revolu

tonary acüvities attempting to bring about a democratic

socialiat regime in Cuba. AZCUS le married to a Spanish

woman and was lavolved in the Spanish revolution. He

was a very close friend a Mandle CASTRO who was

reportedly murdered by a group of Communist left wing

revoltionaries which included Fidel CAsTRO. Auout,

106% AZCUE was living in France and la belleved to have

been arrested by French suthortties on charges resulting

from his involvement in snuggling seniolllix and other

antiblotes into France.

about live children. During early 1901 whilo in Marico

City, AZCUE was contacted by Subjeci in order so obtaln

advice re the advisability of hin detecting from the Cantro

regime and requesting folltica anylum in Mexic% As A

SECRET,

Wanteded Mom salamata

wesrading end

and tire

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

result of this contact Subject obtained tbe impresaion that

AZCUE la suffering from a lack of funds. Since ALCUE

In somewhat ol i snoo and a lascy dresser, be finda this

situation unplensant.

ALCUE Alao habitually has a min-

tress which in turn is a drain on hia pocketbook.

(1) According to Subject, ALCUE 18 an

excellent drattsman who studied archilecture

at the University of Havant, although he sever

obtailuad a dogree. Subject assesses him as a

dirt man, very happy-go-lucky, but impetuou

and one who "blows with the wind". He doon'

seem to have the powers of conceniralion or of

mingle purpose which would allow him to be sue-

consul Subject seele thas AcCUE bas appended

Mmmelt to the Castro regine since 18 allera bim

« purpose in dire and a feeling of belogang to

momething®

(3) Subject described AZCUE as being a

very brave man. He felt that should AZCUE be

approached by hUBARk and requested to coop-

erate, the physical danger inherent to in-place

agent work would not alect his deciaion. In

summiry there would be a reagcnable chance of

porsunding AZCUE to cooperate with KUBARK MI

a suitable moretary and Ideological inducement

were oldered hint. Subject foola, on the basis of

their 1061 conversations in Mexico City, that

AZCUe 1s not too enthused about the Castro regime.

isc li la possible in has become even less in

tavor of it during the ensuing period.

(8) Subjec, ippended that it would be halpful

in any ayproach to AZCUE to attempt to convince

•.... i is

hin the Fidel CASTRO was directly involved in

the "gangster" revolulionary group responsible for

Marolo CASTRO's murder. AZCUE was a very

eliño friona ai Manolo CASTRO's and uns allected

proally by his death.

SECRET,

E:cluded from turns

dewa: ding aal

ar'aa lit. aliva

L

---

## Page 4

SEu....

-4.

b. Enrique RODRICUEZ LOPcheR: RODRIGUEZ WA

born abour 1812 and is presenily Caban Asbassador 1o

Morocco, RUDIUGUEZ was turolved for a long une ta

revolutionary allenipes to overthrow the BATISTA and pre-

Vous rogues in Cuba. He was wuh CASTRO during the

1958-59 period in the Sierra siansre. Jibject became

acquainted with and a close friend of HODRIGUEZ wben

both were membera of the sane so-called revolutionary

"Directorio", Subject alleges that HODRIGUEL tas diso

Mkad CASTRO since their uret neeling during the 1058-59

period. Both Subject and his wife alleged to lave received

a letter from RODRIGUEL WrIten 1a the Slerra liaestre

in which be lated hia dialle of CASTRO and among olber

thinga referred to hin waing tha Spaman equivalent of tha

torm "dirty prosutute". Subject advisen that unfortunately

this lotter han been destroyed. Buiject in convinced that

18 he met RODRIGUE. on the etreal tomorrow the latter

would have no compunctions about mung down for a long

discusalon on old times as well as tbe pollical situation.

-In Cuba. Subject le also convinced that be could on triendly

terma "talk defection o. recrutient" with RODRICUEZ

should they have the opportunity to meet.

Orlando BLANCO, born about 182%, 18 married to

a woman o Puerto Rican birth which makes ber an American

eltisen. BLANCO, according to the lateat Information avail-

mble to KUBARK, la statloned with the Cuban Embasay in .

Morocco with the rank af counselor. Subject met BLANCi,

whon the latter became subordinate to him in the revolu-

tionary "Directorio" working towards the overthrow of the

Eatin jegime. Despite BLANCO's revolutionary setard,

Subject aneuses him as being relatively passiva politically.

Both BLANCO and his wife ars beliered to have applied for

employment with the Cuban foreign service as & means of

lonving Cuba. Subject leela it is posable they will not return

to Cuba when their tour in Morocco expires. During 1960-81

BLANCO was employed in the National Bank of Cuba.

During

this period Subject obtained the impression that BLANCO

and become anti-Cantro. Subject, however, assesses BLANÇO

an a nos-couragenis type ol Individual who migti to iright-

enod at the idea ci working as an in pince agent. As an

• i tamen

gapi

Excluded tur smelle

1? 258

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

= 5 a

eRnmple of BLANCO'& lack of courage, Subject cited tha

lact thas bo sod his wise allen pled lo arald subject's mie

Walla subjoce was an anylee da lbe Arcontine Enlasay la

Habana, Iscidentally, BLANCO' Mid'e same la Isabelle

LAGO do Blanco and the is on excellent torme wilh Subject's 0f

WO. subjert la apparently conlaced thal bidiCo would

welcome an uppurtunity to moet with him providing be i

anoured that the fact do lin neeling would not becone known

do to Cuins superiors.

A Faure CHOMON sediaviLla (301-270370): In es-

sence subject was ondy able to reiterate the backer ound

Anformation on CHOMON outuned in paragraph s or VEGW

1676, 19 Jmaunry 1003.

In order to place lin relatlooship

With CHOMON In perspectve, subject produced a personal

lotter to him fron CHOMON which was written in January

1050 mad referrod to Bubject In the most laullar of terma.

Subjaes alleged that CHOMON bas confided in him on many

monitors of personal and polllical nature for many yours.

An an exple, he cited a difficulty da which CHOMON

bocame involved during his tonure an Ambassador to the

UNBR and while Sublect was fatationed in Moscow. CHOMON LA

it thne tine was having an affair with a Russian translator/

necrolary asaiged to him by the soviets.

Thia person's

husband became knowledgeable of the relationship between

bin wife and CHOMON and beat on the door of the Cuban

Embasy ons day and proceeded to demand that CHOMON

Joave his wife alone. Subsequently a formal protest was

received throug soviet foreign service channell A8 2

resul of this Incident, CHOMON asked Subject toltake & 24

walk with him (He didn't trust the Soviets and felt the

• Cuben Embassy was busgod.) in oner to discuss thie

probin uni ibe possible solutien for it. Although CHOMON

did not specifically stote anything in this vein, Subjest

obtained the Impression during the last two meetings in

the Argentine Embassy In early 1962 that CHOMON vas

anything but happy with his lot under the Castro regina,

Subject feit it would be worthwhile and alleged his willing-

nose to prepare a "recruitment letter" for mailing to

CHOMON in Cuba.

SECRET

GHOUP 1

Eschied to Bete li

fanerating sad

i:: 701=334042

*8

3/BR

---

## Page 6

SECRET

= 6=

•. Floreal CHOMON biedlavilla was born about 1850

in Camaguey, and, according to lales HUBARK Informa-

los, lo presently (largo d' Altaires ol the Cutan Legallon

le Irag. Prior to tus sangamen, CHOMON wa First

Secretary with the (ulan Er bassy in blurocco, Subjoce

described CHOMON as a sensitive, alightly ellemianto

Individual who la reintively mainterested in pollica. Sub

Ject feels that CHOs:ON outained the poallon with the

Cuban foreign service by virtue oi che fact that he la Fauno

CHOMON a brother. Subject fool that t loreal CHOMON

would aleo welcome an opportunity to call with him 1f the

inct of thelr meeting could be kept from the Cuban govere-

ment. He speculated that any allen pt to gale CHOMON'!

cooperation wouls depend on the prallion Faure CHOMON

has assuned toward the Castro ragine. Subject feels

Uhne mont of Flereal CASTRO'a declaion are based on tho

atitude and opinion of his older brotber Fauro. I through

Jottore from or conversutlons with bia okier brother, Floren!

hud obtained the impression that F'aure was becoming dia-

satiatiod with the Castro regime, be probably Ukewlee

would assume such an attitude and conceivably be receptive.

to s rocrultment approach.

OPERATIONAL PROPOSALS: We are currently retracing

kho Individuala listed in the proceeding paragrap, Upon completion ol

these traces, It 1a suggested that & dispaich be prepared to Mexico City

Station out lining all information on Ecubio AZCUE Including that supplied

by Subject. This dispatch would also outline Headquarters' interest in

perhaps urog Subject in an operational approach to AZUE. Menco

City Station would be asked to doscribe the extent to which they could

mport mich an oparation through survelllance of AZCUE, locating his

procont residence and othor information relative to do current neuvities

and political orientation. (Comment:) Wa discused in principle with

the Subject whether or not be wiuld be willing to travel to Mexico City

WIth & KUBARK case officer for the prpose of such an approach. Sub-

ject tentatively indicated his willingroes to cooperate in such a venture

but appeared to inve some reservation on tbe danger thai might accrue

., him. He pointed out that he has a wile and six chilären to support and

-"Boon expocts to be joined by his inther and mother-in-law who are cur-

rently in Miami. We attempted to reassure subject that very little danger

SECRET

Eached iron dinall

fonzarading 88d

decisestlicalled

---

## Page 7

14-00000

Stu.

• 7.

would be lavoired since he would be under surrelllance by AUBARK

ollicora al all lines and would servo only as a sinans of ollecung la

Introduction a NUBARS to ALCUE. Albough vo caonol be certain,

we tood that di proporty presented subject would cooperale with SUBARK

In much & venture.

8, The information reflected above and relaling to RODRIGUE 1,

BLANCO, FlOaN CHOMON, and faure CHOMON, will be made avall.

«bli to 9A8/11 In order to determine wbelbor or not lha; nay be interested

In axplolding these loada. An operallon Involving the preparallon ol a

Jotter by Bubject for forwarding to F'aure CHOMON would be simple lo

prepare but difficult to carry out la that we do not bave a current bone

address for bia, Subject indicated that be belleved Faure CHOMON In

1061 Ured on First street, 4105, Aps. 7, In Imbnes. However, we can-

nat be mure that the address la current. Subject Indleated that perbapa

(im) Ban Pedro y Cirtle dring at Anunciacion 10, Oth floor, In A'adrid,

as ol 1091, la probadly tra lirat wile or anuthor relative of FRu: a CHOMON.

Bho la allegodly the culural attache with the Cuban Embrosy in Madrid

aL, 5 Trashape le would be possible to obtain CHOMON's surrent sadrona

throuniCOs madrid, Conceivably COS madrid could and

to place intercepto on thia nodress and thus

715-2

chain Yaure CHOMON's current bome addresa in Habans, rasuming

he in correnponding with this Individual.

•.

MISCELLANEOUS: We were only able to obtain the names

of two Individuala Irom subject wio he belleved dellaltoly to be G-2

officers. Thase were the individual who accompanied F'Aure CHOMON

when be vinited Subject in May of 1961 at the Argonilue En, bassy In

Habana. The firat of these was Carlos FIGARELLO, aka El Chino.

FIGARELLO was born about 1930 and Subject was able to may uttle more

about him than thin in as much as be spant mont of the time during thin

matting taig with Faure ChOMOr On CHOMON'a second viait to

the Argentine Embassy Be wae accompanied by (Inu) JIMENEZ, aka

Hastnito, slen born about 1930 and the son el (inu) Santos JIMENEZ.

JIMCNEZ WI8, accordlug to Subject, at one time the director of the

revolution ty nowspaper "Combate". Subject was unable to aupply

furttar trior mation on this individual.

10. Subject was shown the KUBARK list of Cuban diplomatic

and consular personnel abroad dated April 1963 and was able to identify

# number of Individual appearing on this list as known to him. These

individals would be barcady ta lode and Subject indicated he was not

THOU 1

SECRET

gownerading and

3/BR

---

## Page 8

SECRET

well acquninted enough to describe thelr personalities or otbervie aid

In an operational approach to them. We are liating then below, bow-

ever, In the event some of them may be of specilie operallonal interest.

to SAS/Fl components. Any individuala fallius into thia category can be

the subject of future detalled debrieling on the occaalon of my nest meet-

Ing with Subject.

SERGUERA Is a homosexual

D: Eduardo MACHADO Cartas, born about 1925 la

Injan, Cuba, Io presently employed as the Cubana Airlines

ropresentative In Canada according to latest KUBARK.

informalon. Subject hasn't seen MACHADO for about

twenly years, but used to inor him well in that he dated

MACHADO'" alter and in this fashion met him and the

family.

C. JOPe BARRIAL Dominguez: Subject belleven thin

name appearing on the KUWARK let to be Incorrect.

BARRIAL in listed as Clife d' Affaires, minister coun

solor it l'e Cuban Embasay in Chile. Subject Inew an

Individual of this name who was assoclated with the same

revohitionary group to which Manolo CASTRO belonged.

MaRIe! PAYAN Viego le originally from Slego de

Avila, Cuss, During BATISTA's regime, PAYAN was

etudying in Spain Subject does not believe PAYAN to be

& Communist. PAYAN's wife la believed to be identical with

Maris Antonio RODRICIE? de Peyes ho le sino lisied as

en employce di the Cuban Embassy in Chile.

* OBCAr PINO Santos, CubRa Ambassador to China,

le an acquaintance ol Subject. Subject was unable to provide

further worthwhlle information on PINO.

1. Flora DIAZ, Parrado, born about 1010, 1e currently

employed as a counselor with the Cuban Embaasy.In France.

Subjoct belleves that DIA% le apolitical and has bean a mam-

ber of the foreign service for a long time. He also believes

SECRET IS

---

## Page 9

"ECRET

- 9 .

her to be homoserual

B. Juan David POSADA Is Currently employed no culo

tural counselor with the Cuban Embassy In France, Subject

describes POSADA as an "arty type" who is an excellent

caricaturim.

k. Manuel R. MORALES, Isted as an attache with

the Cuban Embasay in France, la believed by Subject tu

be Identical with an Individual he met who used the nick-

name Tiburon who was an athlete at Habana University

and from Santiago de Cuba.

Gustavo MEDLAVILLA de la Pena 1o listed as com-

mercial attache with the Cuban Embassy In Germany.

Ambject was acquainted with an individual with this name

who was a coumin of the CHOMON brothers.

LIonel ALONSO Fiel 1a belleved by Subject to be

« young man who be knew from Matanzas Province and

who is now Charge d' Alfatres with the Cuban Embassy

in Indonesia.

GUstRYO ROBRENO Dol, Ria El biago ROBRENO,

1n listed as an attache with the Cuban Embassy in Indonesia.

Subject describes ROBRENO as a very unstable individund.

Once waila drunk, he shot an American In a Cuban bar.

Bo is married to a former prostitute.

1. JOSe R. LINARES Deleado 18 listed a8 an attache

with the Cuban Embassy in Iraq. Subject belleres be sar

at one time acquainted with LINARES who was connected

with the hanoio CASTRO group at the University of fabi,

Subject describes LINARES an a slender individual with s

Disasant personality. He la a mulatio.

m. Gustavo ARCOS y Bergnes in listed as Ambassacior

to Bolgium and Luxembourg and reaident in Brussel, 3-

ject stated ARCOS' brother was killed in Santiuno de Cubsu

on 28 July 1959 during the attack on the "Moncada".

r. Terera PROPNa, Mated me cultural ettach", Third

Secretary with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, in Felaied

to the Cubans Airinos roprosentaties un Mexico. Sunjuct

Entladed tree surerati

SECRET

Sawngredied and

declaralliestien

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

- 10 .

described PROENZA as a cold-blooded emotionless woman

Who la nickarmed "the munasy".

0. Silvino SORREGUY Matos ia listed as the Cuban

Minister to Saudi Arabla with residence in Cairo. Subject

IDOWE SORLEGUY to have been once a Cuban foreign ser-

vice representative to dorsuras and to bave been declared

PNG by that country.

Do Jone Antonlo PULIDO y Lodesma ls llsted as consul

to the Cuban Embassy In Sweden. Subject Inowa PULIDO

an being a good friend of Enrique RODRIGUEZ Loeche,

Ambasandor to Morocco.

% Armando PEREZ Pinto la llited an commercial

counselor with the Cuban Embassy In the USSR. Subject

believen PEREZ 18 not of Cuban birth, but from Haiti.

Subjoct could only say that PERE? was a nice young matt,

born ubout 1935, who did not give the impresaion of being

a rabid Communist.

F. Juan JUARBS y Jugsbe ie listed as the counselor

or the Cuban Delegation to the United Natlons. Subject knows

JUARBE and thinke be in Puerto Rican or Vouezuelan by

birth rather than a Cuban,

a MeNesES de Albizu Campon: According t

ubject, MENESES is not a Cuban but be la not sure of ha

tionallty.: Although he met MSNESSS he 15 unable to

supply furtber sigmillennt date.

* Ginarto MEDIA VIA Le Une 8E & me secretary

of the Cuban Dologation to the United Naticus. Subject sus-

pocts thai MEDIAVILLA in a cousite the CHOMON brothers.

11, Orlando PEREZ was met by Subject during his tour in Moscow,

PEREZ was the Charge d' Allergg m tir Caban Emissay in Moscow.

Subject became lightly acquainted with PEFUEZ and obtained the impros-

sloa that PEREZ 10 not pro-Castro. He la marrier to an American

citizen, Fina PEREZ, nee Crosamar, PEREZ has since quit the foreign

mervice and eccuples & posion wità tim alional banx of Cuba.

SECRET,

801-334088

told angelton

VIBR

---

## Page 11

SEGNAT

- 11-

12. We asked Subject whether or not he was acquainted with any

Individual belonging to the Cuban military. He could supply no signifi-

cant namer or informallon in this sphere. He did advise us that a

potential source for this type of information was one Eloy GUTIERREZ

menoyo.

According to subject, GUTIERREZ was formerly a Cuban

army officer and would have many contacts in this area. As an aside,

Sabjeat stated that GUTIERREZ had supplied weapons to FIdel CASTRO

during the 1058-59 poriod through an individual who is knew enly as

(nu) GONZALEZ. GONZALEZ apparently in turn obtained the weapons

from a (Inu) SAGARO who was a reaident of Santiago de Cuba. Of even

more interest, Subject stated that CUNZALEZ was, during thie same

period, in contact with Otto SKORZENY in Madrid and Belgium. Sub

Joct could no longer remember where he had heard this information and

could only add that an he remembered, GONZALEZ had Been SKORZENY.

In Madrid and russels, Belglum, during this perlod. It la felt that this

piece of information may be of more than normal aignificance in that we

recall having been told several years ago that SKORZENY was of opera-

toon Interest to KUBARK.

As we remember, SKORZENY was at that

time suspected of or raported to be the key figure in a Communist/ KGB

Illegal funding apparatus. We will check with the CI Staff, WE, and EE,

In ordar to determine whether further information on SKO?ZENY's

aliegod activities was over developed.

18, Raul RODRICUEZ Feo is, according to Subject, a profes-

#lonal in the Cuban (craign service.

Subject does not know for certain

where RODRIGUEZ is presently stationed but suspects he ie in labana.

RODRIGUEZ does not gppear in the KUBARK list of Cuban diplomate

abroad,

RODRIGUE Z 15 & good friend of Subject and his wife, and Sub- 08

Ject's wi's has known Mrs. RODRIGUEZ since both were small girle?

RODRIGUEZ was born about 1912 and studied at the University of Habana,

Ho and Subject attended the rame secondary schools in sagua La Grande,

Cuba. Subject states tit RUDRIGUEZ is definitely not a Communist

and probably would cooperate in any gnti-Castro aclivity RUBARK, might

-am of him,

11. Carlos LAO was born about 1923 in Cuba and 1a a Certified

Public Accruntant. Dubject is good friends with LAO in that both of them

worked together in attempting to overthrow the Batieta regime. LAO

refugued to the United States from Cuba In October 1982 and now lives

in Willerale, Minnesota.

Subject volunteered LAO's name c= an individ.

val who inows everybory of any eignificance in Hoiguin, Cube, and the

purrounding aret.

Engaded trom guinmatls

HowAreaSiad and

declausthentton

---

## Page 12

SECRET

- 12 .

15. UFGA 7428, 31 January 1969, containe Information obtained

by JMWAVE regarding Subject and indicated hira to be emotionally un-

#tablo, eccentric, and generally reputed to be something of a rut. We

are inclined to agree with this information in so far ae Subject's eco-

nomical theory is concerned. During his stay of almost one year as

an asylee in the argentine Embassy in Habana, Subject apent the coplous

spare time available to him writing an economic treatise. On our meet

Ing with Subject on May 4th, Subject provided un with a handwritten

short summary of this docament. According to thie summary, Subject

han been attempting to correlate economic cycles with peaks of sunspot

activity. He backe up his "economie argument" with reference to the

Old Testament and the Artec Calendar. If Subject has been expounding

this thory in public we are not surprised that he la considered some -

what of a nit. It should be noted, however, that many otberwise sane

and unetul people belleve in horoscopes and other similar superstitione.

We do not feel that this quirk in his personality must necessarily be con-

#idered derogatory in terme of hia possibie operational exploitation by

KUBARK. Although we have spent less than ten hours with Subject, our

Impresalon lu that he la a rational individual in terma of ble attitude

towards and relationships with other individuals and permonalitles around

him. As a matter of fact, we obtained the impression that Sublect pos-

sommes more than his fair share of what la sometimes termed "common

sonne". The handwritten summary of Subject's economie theory am per-

taining to cunspots de apperied to thin memorandum as attachment.

Attachment: Herewith

An stated above

03

GP:sab

BAY/CI

Dintribution:

Orig & 1 - C/SAS/CI (chrono copy)

1 - RID/Index

20-027702 - 2056 Antonio CASAS Rodriguez 05

1 - C/SAS (Into copy)

1009°

CAJUP

SECRET

33/RS

---

