# 104-10071-10038

## Page 1

104-10071-10038

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

(Optional)

FROM:•

CI/SO

ROber

TO: ¡Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

2.

3.

NO

DATE

B- 618

8 Sept 69

COMMENTS (Number each comment to shore from

to whom.

whom

Dram a line ocross column after each comment.)

Cl/su insania co one.

Originated by: CI/SO

Based on:

586, 2 Sepp 69

Dissem to FBI (vai Mr. Cassidy)

on: 8 SEP 1969

7.

8

9

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3=52

File B-memo (record copy)

CC:World Council of Peace Paris

Delegation (JWK)

CC:

Bruce Wells

PROD

PARIS

PROD

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

Wl 7526

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

NO FO. IGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

SUBJECT: Morid Council of Peace Planned Delegation to Paris

1. The following information has been provided by a sensitive

and reliable source, who acquired it in late August 1969.

2. An iodated memorandum in the possession of the Freuch

Communist Party entitled "Planed Delegation to Paris" indicated

that the World Peace Council and the French Peace Movement:

want to bring to Paris, France, victims of United States fasciam.

The memorandum also makes the point that "now is the time to

pusà for a ceasefire in Vietnam. "

3.

The following individuals were to be contacted to appear:

Mrs. Martin Luther King

"b)

Widow of Medger Every

c)

Widow of Norman Morrisson

d) CiaizJoanson

e) The mothers of the three civil rights workers

Killed in Mississippi. (Comment: The thres civil

rights workers referred torare probably

Michael SCHWERNER, Andrew GOODMAN, and

James CHANEY).

The memorandur said that Ethel KENNEDY had been approached

bit that she had declined to come.

The following individuals were named in the memorandum

the United States organizers of the delegation:

2): Clarence Jones

b). Ales Rosenburg

c). William Van der Heuven

Our recorde reflect one Claire JOHNSON, mentioned in your

New York City memorandum of 21 July, 1951, subject: Clair Hurwitt,

NO FORDION DIGOSAILO DISSEN ADROAR

SEGZE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NO FORDION DISSEM/NO DISSEM ADROAL

was Claire Johnson, was a supporter OL Paul ROBESON in the

Peekskill, New York, disordera of 1949.

6. Our records relect a Clarence Fielden JONES, mentioned

in your New Fork City memorandum of 27 May 1964, aubject:

Communist Party of the United States of America - Negro Question

Communist Influence in Racial Matters, as being in contact with

Martin Luther KING, Our recorda also reflect a Clarence M. JONES,

mentioned la your Philadelphia memorandum of 5 Septerber 1968,

subject: Third National Conference on Black Power, as having

attended the Conference.

?. Our records reflect one Alex ROSENBURG mentioned in

your Seattle, Washiagton memorandura of 27 November 1968

subject: Hemispheric Conference to End the War in Vietnam,

Montreal Quebec, Canada, as being a sponaor of the Conference.

8. Please furnish us with any additional information you may

have on the individuals mentioned in paragraph four above.

PLEASE TRANSMIT MADLY DIA SINGEN,

.M2. S. 1. 929181

NO FOREICH DISSEMINO DISSEM ABROAD

Javal

---

