# 104-10192-10112

## Page 1

104-10192-10112

TO CIA

Background Use Onig

Do Not Reproduce

REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

REPORT NO.

JNWAVE

UFG 7445

REPURTINE DIGITIA

Henry J. SLOMAN

NO for or ret

11 Aug 65

#is 0rra0

Margaret R. NAktida

Philpe G. PLAARD

XX

ACS

THOCESSING ACTION

COVER SNEET

MARNEO TOO ANDALINO

(MORNINO REQUIRED

OPE DATA HEPORICO SEPARATELY

DIBSEMIAABOA

108.8

DISSEMEMATION

1. - Hqs.

1

- 00/C

2 - JMBARR (CONAWESTFOR)

2 - Panana

16-7

EUENTAL DATA

TYPIC

FIELA DISTRIBUTION

Pocial

I cy, each to Miami rops. of:

State, F.B.Ie,

Customs,

Border Patrol,

U.S.C.G.

I&NS,

Source: AMOT-215 in ANOT report SE-3811, dated 28 July 1965.

Group 1: Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Doclassification

SEPORTS

1÷ 105: P

H03 R1 0377

121:

5:8 1467

iS COPY

19-300-10

---

## Page 2

14-00000

GRADIPIE. OF

SOURCE: A. Complet gry reliatle

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

B. Usually ratiahio.

€: Nol relistie.

(701)

AFOUAISAL D8 CONTENT, 8, Consemed or other inderendent and reliable aurios a Preera Joa l Possitiyero, A Doubtlul, 31 Protart

61 Cannut do ludead.

CONFIDINTIAL

CONTRULLED DISSSK

Cuba

couNTA, plans of the Movialunto Dunocratico

REPRIVA

SUBJECT

Cristiano (MDC)

to Attack the Radar DArDESERRT 11 August 1905

Installations at Cabo do Sai Antonio

and to Dostroy the Refrigoration

3

Machinory ut the Fishing Cooporative

In Dinag, Pinar dol Rio Provinco

ASSIN'ES

CATE OF Into July 1965

INFO.

FLACE & Unitod States, Mant

UFG 7445

CATE ACQ (30 July 1965)

GNEASTN

РОПАВНОМ. ВОШИСЯ ОНЛОЬНОЯ АГЕ СЕНТ

SOURCE:

A mumbor of a group of Cuban migrós trained In tho tochniques

of Information colloction. The group las providod useful

roporta since 1961.

1.

Bummary:

Tho Movinionto Domocratico. Cristiano (NDC, Christian

Donocratle lovomont) had two raid plans on 1il0 In July 1985,.

which were schodulod to bo directed agrisst Cuban targots

comotino in the futuro.

Operation larso istolves a naval

attack aginat tho radar installations at Cavo do San Antonio

on the Poninauln of Guanahscablbos, Mile Operation Machote 18

to bo diroctad against the dustruction a the rofrigeration

oquipment at tha fishing cooperative la Dims, Pluat dol Rio

Provinco.)

In late July 1965 nonbers of the MC had teo raid plans on 1110 -

Oporation Macoo and Oporation Machete,

which they wore planning

io diroct agninst Cuban targots somtina in the futuro.

A third

plan, Oporation Cacahual, which Involred an attack on tho

diatillery at Santa Crue dol Norto, Bssara Province, abortud on

26 July when un allogod Unitod States Kary vessel sightod the

VICKY I, a V-23, an MDC crift, ibout S0 miles fros

tho Florida

coast and suusoguently intercopted the craft and her crow.

3.

Operation Maco San Anton vacattack at the

radar installa-

78+57) on the Peninsula

o1 Guanahacablbos, while Operition Meboto la to be diructed

against the destruction of tho rofrigar ton equippent at the

Ilshing cooporative in Dims (N 28-19,30, V 8--14.00) Pinar del

Rio Province. the BERNARDO I!.

The operations require too usa of

threo craft:

A mother stip wioso roal nane is

belteved to be the PUNCHINCUlA, which is usually berthod at the

CONFIDENTIAL

CORTROLLED DISSA

GROUP I

Haba Sgabd@k165

DISTRIBUTION

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDESTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEY

UFG 7445

docks of Trolllo Babun's Antillean Marino Shipping Corporation,.

3050 NT. North Rivor Divo,

Miasi; the VICKY 1, which ly normally

anchored at tho Crandon Park Marine on loy Biscayne; and an

RE:12, a rubbor raft oquippod with an 18-horsopovor

ongine

Oporation Maçoo will roquiro

the use of ton mon, five of whom

aro schedulod to bo aboard the BERNARDO II and livo aboard the

VICKY I•

this oporation

will involve tho following chockpoints:

Point A: N24-35.00, N 82:56,00

Point B: N 22-38.00,

# 84.37.00

Point C.

N 22-04.004

85-07.30

Point D: N 21-51.00, N 84-57.00..

The following la tho Itinorary In local tino of the 206-mll0

trip that le to bo mdo in 22 hours and 23 minutes by the

BERNARDO II and the VICKY I:

0237 - Dopart from Dry Tortugas and cruise at eight

knots for tho 147-mlle trip to Point B

2100 - Arrive/Dopart from Point B and cruiso at 15 knota

for the 15milo trip to Point C

2400 - Arrive/Depart fron Point C and cruine at 15 knots

for the 14 allo trip to Point D

0100 - Arrive at Point D

0115 - Depart from Point D

The BERNARDO II, after having towed tho VICKY I to Point B, will

depart immediatoly for the rendozvous point - Point A in the

Dry Tortugas.

The NDC sombors intend to toke with them one 57-un gornilless

rifle with two cases of projuctiles, one 30-callbor machine

gun with. 1,000 rounds of ammunition,

two 7. 62-n FAL rifles

dont gna ted

for NATO use 1th 1, 000 rounds u. ammunition, and 10

fragmontation grenades.

They will open fire on the radár: Installa-

tion at a point about 300 to 500 meters away from the targot

scheduled to be

and five aboard the RE12.

following check points:

Point A: N. 21-34.30,

W 82-56,00

Point

B:

N. 23-00.00,

# 8S-58.00

Polat C:

N

22-34.00,

N 84-19.00

Point D:

N 22-29,00, # 84-14.00.

B. The following 15

the itinorary in local time of the 145g mile

trip that is to be made in 16 hours and 45 minutes by the craft:

0515 - Depart fron Dry Tortugas and cruise at eight knots

for the 109-mile trip to Polnt B

1855 - Arrive at Point B

1955 - Depart fron Point B and cruiso at 15 knots for

the 30-mile trip to Point C

2155 - Arrive/Dopart froa Point C and cruise at six knots

for. tbe siz. and one half mile trip to Point D

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLSD DISSEN

---

## Page 4

9.

10€

11.

12°

13.

CUNF IDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

UFC 7415

2300 - Arrival at Polot D of the VICKY I

2400 - Duparturo from Point D of the VICKY I

0105 - Rondezvous/Departure of the VICKY I with

the RU-12

0305 - Arrivnl/Doparturo from Point B of the BERNARDO II,

the VICKY I and the RB-13

For Operation Machoto, the MDC mombers intend to take with them

ono 57-un rocoilless

rifle with two casos of projoctiles, two

7.62-ma YAL rifles designated for NATO use with 800 rounds. of

ammunition,

throe 3 submachine guns, one 30-callber machine

gun with 1,000 rounds of ammunition,

sivo 15-cartber platois

with 1,000 rounde of ammunition,

five commando knives,

12 hand

grenados - six fragiontation and six phosphorous, 60 pounds of

C explosive, and timo fuses.

In addition,

they plan to take

Ilve canteens,

five olive-green untforms, live paire of boots,

and three motascopes.

Tho RB12 will be launched at Point C by the VICKY I and will

then proceed immediatoly with the commando group and equipment

target area.

At 200 meters fron the coast a frogman will

the raft and procood to the coast, where he will reconnoiter

the area,

After tho frogman transmits an all-clear signal to

the raft,

the remaining four men will paddle the raft to the

While two nen romin in the raft and koep watch, the other

throo nen will procoed along the 50 noter stretch to the fishing

cooporative and place tho chargos in the refrigeration machinery.

The raft will then proceed to. Point C where the flve man crew

will rendezvous with the VICKY I.

The BERNARDO II will bé about 30 ailes from the coast whilo

the coirigoration machinory is boing mined, and will remain at

Point B for

the VICKY I.

If the rendezvous takos place on

both craft will proceed to their operation base.

schedule it by 0300 the craft have not rendezvoused,

However,

the BERNARDO II

and the

VICKY I will proceed independently to the

alternato point

o1 rendezvous, the Cosgrove Shoal Light la the Marquebas Islands.

the case of both oporations, the BERNARDO II will communicate

by radio telephone every two hours with the base,

except during

the final four hours of navigation before approaching the target

In the event that any of the personnel are intercepted and captured

"by the enemy," they are to declare that they are all members

of the military section of the MDC and are discharging their

duties in lino with their mission, which is in support of the

free Cubans who

are fighting as smil, organized guerrilla units

in the hills of Cubs.

1.

Field Comment:

• See TDCSDB-315/02530-65, dated 27 July 1965,

and TDCSDB-SIS/ 02538-65,

dated 28 July,

fosinformation on

Operation Cacahual and the inability of the NDC to effect

a raid on

the distillery.

CONFIDANTIAL

CONTROLLED DISS&H

---

