104-10074-10336

*

a

2 (220
SECRET 1620022 oct 70 a CARKLEIGH ACTING)
HEADQUARTERS |

: ‘evant Galeurs SMHCHA OS 2u
Ay" FOLLQUING INFORMATION OBTAINED BY Jsac-s FROM
“ g, EXSENCHER OF CPUSA WHILE BOTH VACATIONT NG AT SOCHI, wssR.

“DURING AUGUST-SEPTEMBER 1970, Has ELEMENT. PROCESSING THIS

“INFORMATION FOR DISSEMINATION Is REQUESTED TO CLEAR SOURCE

” pESCRIPTION, AUTHENTICATION AND DISSEMINATION CONTROLS WITH

AREA DESK. (—BAC-3 IS SENSITIVE SOURCE WHO SUSCEPTIBLE TO” , ail
“SCRUTINY BY KGB. EISENCHER WAS ACCOMPANIED BY HIS WIFE.

: 2 “OTHE CPUSA HAS CLOSE TO 14,000 MEMBERS, MAJORITY OF

22 welt fe LABORERS. OVER 25, PERCENT OF MEMBERS ARE NEGROES

> AND THEY FunctrondRaszEaLty IN THE WORTH AMERICAN axa owt
MENT, THE CPUSA HAS RECENTLY ORGANIZED A YOUNG COMMUNIST

“MOVEMENT. THE PARTY ALSO PARTICIPATES HEAVILY IN THE LABOR)

ae MOVEMENT. AT A RECENT. CUNWAMED) LABOR MEETING OF REPRESEWTA-

"TIVES: FROM VARIOUS REGIONS’ OF THE USA, OF THE 56 UNIONS "|

REPRESENTED, THE CPUSA HAD DIRECT INFLUENCE IW.26 OF THEM.

THE MAGAZINE "LABOR PARTY" PLAYS AN IMPORTANT ROLE 18

[a COORDINATING MOVEMENTS WITHIN THE LABOR RANKS. DESPITE
Se ee i ; AeTION i
Z oad | sees)
al 3- (fire ON
® We oY 4 Stein Fite 664
y We" =~ KEYPUNCHEE:
a: ; SS DCT G70 S:


14-00000

® @. a

-

: E290 i a :
PAGE 2 (arisen 419 SECRET
NUMEROUS BARRIERS, THE CPUSA IS CONCENTRATING ITs EFFORTS In
curcaco, LOS ANGELES ‘AND NEW YORK AS WELL “AS OTHER REGIONS OF

IMPORTANCE.

3. THE cPUSA RECENTLY ADOPTED A coun STRATEGY TowaRDS

"THE PEACE MOVEMENTS. . (NOTES. INDICATION HERE IS THAT THE.

PARTY DID NOT HAVE. A UNIFIED APPROACH BUT WHAT THE KEW
STRATEGY IS WAS NOT SPECIFIED) < CRITICISMS oF “THE SOVIET

oF UNION BY THE RADICAL LEFT MAOISTS, FIDELISTS, AND TROTSKYITES

CAUSE PROBLEMS BUT APPEAR TO HAVE ABATED , SOMEWHAY«
As. REGARDING RELATIONS WITH CUBA, HEWRY WINSTON, cPUSA .

oo RATIONAL CHAIRMAN, TRAVELLED TO CUBA FOLLOWING THE JUNE. 1969
* woRLD CONFERENCE OF Yoamuwtst PARTIES WHERE HE. CONVERSED WITH

FIDEL. CASTRO AW OTHER CUBAN LEADERS RESULTING IN A WARMING

: S THE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE Two PARTIES.

Om

5. AC-3 WAS GIVEN THE FOLLOWING CONTACT INSTRUCT IONS

BY LEOW aa ° WHo SPOKE’ nN LITTLE SPANISH, IN THE. EVENT
oe

CONTACT IW THE USA. WOULD BE REQUIRED IN THE FUTURE. "IN

tev YBSk cITY TELEPHONE 368-9913 (WORK) OR 368-5955 (RESIDENCE)
AND ARRANGE MEETING WHICH WOULD TAKE PLACE BEHIND A TELEPHONE
BOOTH ON THE STREET AT THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY.



ae 2-20. :
page 3(|SSSC~=“~*~‘*‘ I SECRET
JS. 6s FILE: DEFER. GP+1

» SECRET

“Pa

f

