# 104-10312-10001

## Page 1

1104-10312-100011

SiGNET

MOT RELEASZOLE TO FOR INTEROLEAS

DOR-00780

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

AChIng Chief, FPL

Group

Katherine Stricker (C)

FPL Group

acting Chief, Operations Group

PCS/PGLO Trace Request - Gordon Noval

and Owen Silvious

FPLG Memorandum dated 27 January 1983

≥/P/

1. In response to referenced request, an intensive

search of the files and indices of the Directorate of

Operations

was conducted

on Gordon Noval and Owen Silvious,

two individuals who reportedly are involved in offshore

banking and who claim CIA connections. Following are the

results. (C)

Gordon Noval:

A. OG/EIB/NRS surfaced

the following:

(1) 201-0834922

on Gordon Dwane Novel, born:

circa 1938 in the United States. Novel is a

self-described electronics bugging expert..

He 1s

involved in New Orleans District Attorney James

Garrison's probe of President Kennedy's

assassination, .

and in a libel suit against playbathe

and Jim Garrison based on an article published in

October 1967 edition authored by Jim Garrison. Novel

has reportedly stated that his activities in and

around New Orleans in the early 1960's were on behalf

of the CIA and, specifically, the raid on e munitions

bunker in Houma, Louisiana,

had been carried out on

behalf of CIA.

However, Novel refused

to answer

written interrogatories

concerning his illeged work

with CIA. As a result, attorneys representing

Playboy requested the

Agency furnish

a cortificnte of

non-employment.

On 2 May 1969, CIA's Director of

Personnel signed a notarized certificate which stated

WARNING NOTICE

INTELLICENCE SOURCES

CR METHODS INVOLVED

DECL

1,2=

DERIVED FROM

73

NOT RELEASESLE DO FORDEN METONALS

---

## Page 2

13-00000

NOT PILEASAELE TO FONDER KATORAIS

that, "Gordon Dwane Novel, at his request on 22

December 1967, was interviewed as an applicant for

employment by

a member of the Office of Personnel,

Central Intelligence Agency.... Based

on the

information supplied at such

interview, the

interviewer did not recomnend employment and his

application for employment was not further processed

by the Central Intelligence Agency. The personnel

records of the Central

Intelligence Agency contain

no

record of employment of Gordon Dwane Novel by the

Central Intelligence Agency."

(2) XAN-00209 dated 24 August 1981 on Gordon

Novel, the Subject of a litigation file.

(3) FBI document, DBB-80563 dated 9 May 1967,

Subject: Assassination of President John F. Kennedy,

Dallas, Texas, November 22, 1963•

Novel, a fugitive

witness of Jim Garrison's, called

the FBI in New

Orleans

and advised them

to expect a call from

Garrison.

B.

OG/EIB/NRS and DCD surfaced one file (A185210)

on Gordon Michael Dwane Novel.

Novel initially contacted

the DCD/New Orleans Resident Office (NORO) on

• 31 October

1975 concerning an operational proposal for CIA's

consideration.

NORO had a number of meetings with Novel

to discuss his proposal, which was eventually rejected.

Novel refused to accept

the decision and

threatened to

approach the DCI directly, offering additional supporting

material and attempting to arrange to visit Headqunrters

so that he could defend his proposal in person:

Novel's

last call to NORO was 26 November 1979 and he was again-

advised that NORO had nothing to discuss with him. (S)

3• Owen Silvious:

OG/EIB/NRS surfaced one document (DIRECTOR 471493

dated 24 October 1973) on Owen Franklin Silvious. Silvious, a

businessman, was born 15 January 1939 in Luray, Virginia.

is married

to Nancy Ann nee Goochenur, born 27

December 1942

in Luray.

Their permanent address is

P.0. Box 62, Luray.

Silvious was issued a presport on 27 May 1971 for one month's

travel to Europe and the Middle East.

No information was

surfaced which would indicate any CIA connection with

Silvious. (S)

No identifiable information was surfaced with regard

to offshore. banking by either Noval or Silvious.

Per a 28

January 1983 telephone conversation with Katherine Stricker,

FPLG, she is checking with IAD/ENO for possible information on

offshore banking.

SEONZI

NOT RELEASARLE TO FOSEICH RETURSIS

---

## Page 3

13-00000

MOT BOURNE DOSSES:

5.

According to information provided this Directorate. by

DDA/ IPD, Gordon Noval was the Subject of Freedom of

Information request F81-0889 and Privacy Act requests

P76-0768, P77-2537 and P81-1233.

There is no indication that

Owen Silvious has ever been the Subject of an FOIA/PA request.

(S)

6.

Katherine Stricker, FPLG, was notified telephonically

of the results of this search on 28 January 1983. (C)

03

OG/EIB:

1983)

BASED ON: A review of DO records

FILE IN:

100-139- (X-ref 201-834822)

Distribution:

Original - Addressee w/ref

- 100-139-

w/ref

1 - OG/DMB (201-834822) w/ref

- DCD (A185210)

w/ref

1 - OG/EIB Chrono

X9461 CL BY 0236112 (4 January

SEES

B .

---

