# 104-10301-10005

## Page 1

1104-10301-100051

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

DRAFT

ARRB Reguest CIA-1

The following Office of the Director Central Intelligence

(DCI) documents can be Released in Full:

R 1-110

HR 1-2

HR 1-2

HR 1-2b

HR 1-2b

HR 1-2

HR 1-2b

HN 1-6

HN 1-12

HN 1-14

HN 1-55

HR 1-3b

HR 1-3.

HR 1-3b

7 December 1959

pp. 1-2

1 April

1961

pp. 5-6

16 August 1963

p.

5

16 August 1963

P.

6

31 March 1964

p.

6

30 December 1965

p.

5

30 December 1965

p.

6

29 November 1961

2 April 1962

16 April 1962

28 April 1965

16 August 1963

p.

7-9

31 March 1964

p. 11

16

December 1966

p. 12

Organization and

Function (Mission

Statement

Mission Statement

Office of the

Director

Mission Statement

Office of the

Director

Mission Statement

The Deputy Director

Mission Statement

The Deputy

Director

Mission Statement

Office of the

Director

Mission Statement

The Deputy Director

Assumption of Office

Director, CIA

Delegation of

Authority

Organization -

Establishment of the

Executiive Committee

Delegation of

Authority

Mission Statement

Independent Offices

Mission Statement

Independent Offices

Mission Statement

Independent Offices

Her ecle

mDAL

---

## Page 3

13-00000

HR 1-4

HR 1-3b

HR 1-3

HR 1-3b

HR 1-3

31

p.

March 1964

12

16 December 1966

p. 12

18 February 1969

11

23 May 1975

p. 12

30 May 1975

p. 11

DRAFT

Mission Statement

Independent Offices

Mission Statement

Independent Offices

Mission Statement

Independent Offices

Mission Statement

Independent Offices

Mission Statement

Independent Offices

The following DCI document can be Released as Sanitized:

HN 1-33

3 April 1963

"pp. 1-9

Organization of the

Office of the

Director

- 2-

MPATT

---

## Page 4

13-00000

REGULATION

NO. 1-110

R 1-110

ORGANUATION

Revised 7 December 1959

ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS

Rescission: R 1-110 dated 24 March 1959

CONTENTS

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

EXECUTIVE OFFICER •

INSPECTOR GENERAL

SPECIAL ASSISTANT FOR PLANNING

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

21 apie

Page

1

2

• 2

I. MISSION

Under the direction of the National Security Council, It is the duty of the Central

Intelligence Agency to advise on, and to make recommendations for the coordi-

natlon of, Intelligence activitles relating to the national security; to correlate,

evaluate, and disseminate intelligence relating to the national security; and to

perform services of common concern to the intelligence agencies and to perform

such other functions as may be directed.

2. FUNCTIONS

* The Central Intelligence Agency shall perform the duties and functions pre

seribed by the National Securlty Act of 1947 (Sec. 102), together with such other

duties and functions as may appropriately be assigned to it by competent

authority."

b. The Director of Central Intelligence is the head of the Central Intelligence

Agency and is responsible for proper performance of the Agency's functions

In the performance of his duties, the Director shall exercise all powers inherent

in the head of a department or agency of the Government.

c. The Deputy Director of Central Intelligence essists the Director in the perform-

ance of his dutles and acts as the Director in the absence of that oficlal.

d. In addition to his normal authorities as Director of Central Intelligence, the

irector is charged with the carrying out of such specific statutory functions

as are set forth in appropriate legislator

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

3. MISSION

CABLE SECRETARIAT

1

---

## Page 5

13-00000

R 1-110

REGULATION

ORGANIZATION

NO. 1-110

Revised 7 December 1959

going cables involving questions of national policy; and insuring that all

Intelligence Items contained in cables are transmitted to the Ofice of the

Deputy Director (Intelligence).

INSPECTOR GENERAL

4. MISSION

The Inspector General is charged with conducting inspections and investigations

on behalf of the Director throughout the Agency, both at headquarters and in the

5. FUNCTIONS

The Inspector General shall:

a. Survey and evaluate the assigament and performance of the missions and

functions prescribed for all components of the Agency and recommend to the

appropriate functions.

b. Be responsible for Investigations of fraud, misuse of funds, conflicts of interest

and other matters involving misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance, or viola-

tions of trust.

d. Maintain and control all liaison with the President's Board of Consultants on

Foreign Intelligence Activities.

e. Provide general guldance and supervision to the Legislative Counsel on all

congressional matters other than legislation affecting the Agency. (The Leg-

Islative Counsel is advised by the General Counsel on Agency legislation. See

paragraphs 3b(6) and (7) of R 1-140.)

1. Perform such other functions as may be determined by the Director.

SPECIAL ASSISTANT FOR PLANNING

6. MISSION

The Speclal Assistant for Planning is charged with assisting the Director of Cen-

tral Intelligence in planning Agency activitles.

7. FUNCTIONS

The Special Assistant for Planning shall:

a. Develop and recommend policies and plans for Agency activities.

b. Furnish guidance regarding the long-range plans of the Agency.

c. Conduct program analysis, as directed by the Director of Central Intelligence.

d. Perform other related dutles as the Director of Central Intelligence may

require.

ALIEN W. DULLES

Director of Central Intelligence

DISTRIBUTION: AB

Siciannad

---

## Page 6

13-00000

•

ORGANIZATION

HR 1-2

2. OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

#. MISSION. Under the direction of the National Security Council, It Is the duty

of the Central Intelligence Agency to advise on, and to make recommendations

for the coordination of, intelligence activities relating to the national security:

o correlate, evaluate, and disseminate intelligence relating to the nationa

security; and to perform services of common concern to the Intelligence agen-

cles and to perform such other functions as may be directed

B. FUNCTIONS

(1) The Central Intelligence Agency shall perform the duties and functlons

prescribed by the National Securlty Act of 1947 (Sec. 102), together with

such other duties and functions as may appropriately be assigned to it by

competent authority.

(2) The Director of Central Intelligence Is the head of the Central Intelligence

Agency and is responsible for proper performance of the Agency's fune-

tons.". In the performance of his dutles, the Director shall exercise all

powers inherent in the head of a department or agency of the Govern-

ment..

(3) The Deputy Director of Central Intelligence assists the Director In the

performance of his duties and acts as the Director In the absence of that

official.

(4) In addition to his normal authorities as Director of Central Intelligence,

the Director is charged with the carrying out of such specific statutory

functions as are set forth in appropriate legislation.

3. EXECUTIVE OFFICER

8. MISSION. The Executive Offcer is charged with coordinating all staff actions,

directing the activities of the Executive Secretariat and Cable Secretariat, and

performing such other duties as may be assigned by the Director and the

Deputy Director.

b. CABLE SECRETARIAT. The Cable Secretary is charged with coordinating

policies governing the preparation, release, and distribution of CIA cables and

is charged with the review, processing (exclusive of the encrypting, decrypting.

and transmitting processes), distribution, and delivery within CIA headquar

ters of all classifed incoming and outgoing CIA cables; ensuring that the

originating office has secured the personal approval of the Director on all out

going cables Involving questions of national policy; and ensuring that all in-

telligence items contained in cables are transmitted to the Office of the Deputy

Director (Intelligence). The Cable Secretary Is also charged with the re-

sponsibility for the control and dissemination within the Agency of non-CIA

produced cables and telegrams.

4. INSPECTOR GENERAL

#. MISSION. The Inspector General is charged with conducting inspections and

investigations on behalf of the Director throughout the Agency, both at head-

B. FUNCTIONS. The Inspector General shall:

1) Survey and evaluate the assignment and performance of the missions anc

unctions prescribed for all components of the Agency and recommend t

the Director such Improvements as may assist them more fully to perform

Revised: 1 April 1981

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

HR 1-5

SECE ON IS

76

ORGANIZATION®

(2) Be responsible for investigationslot fraud, misuse of funds, conflicts of

Interest, and other matters Involving misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfea-

(3) Provide & forum where Agency personnel may, on & highly confidential

basis, confide grievances or complaints which have not recelved satisfac-

tory consideration through regular channels of command. (See Regula-

tion No. 20-670.)

(4) Maintain and control all liaison with the President's Board of Consultants

on Foreign Intelligence Activitles.

(5) Provide general guidance and supervision to the Legislative Counsel on all

w? Jailicongressional matters other than legislation affecting the Agency.

'Legislative Counsel is advised by the General Counsel on Agency legisla

tion. See ER 1-14c (2) (1) and (g).)

(8) Perform such other functions as may be determined by the Director.

5. ASSISTANT FOR COORDINATION. The Assistant for Coordination Will

assist the Director of Central Intelligence in the coordination of the intelligence

activities of the Government, as prescribed by statute and National Security

Counell directives. He is responsible for continuous study, review, and submis-

sion to the Director of possibilities for increasing integration, reducing duplica-

tion, and improving coordination within the national intelligence effort, in con-

sultation with representatives of other Intelligence agencies.

6-11. Reserved.

SECRET

Revised: 1 April 1961

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Lage 6 rescinded

ORGANIZATION

HR 1-2

2. OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

8. THE DIRECTOR, The Director of Central Intelligence is the President's

principal foreign intelligence adviser and head of the Central Intelligence

Agency and is responsible for the discharge of the responsibilitles of the

Agency and those of his position, as they are prescribed by the National

Security Act, the Central Intelligence Agency Act, other legislation, the Presl-

dent's letter of January 16, 1982 to the Director of Central Intelligence, and by

other Presidential directives. The letter of January 16, 1962 reads as follows:

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

In carrying out your newly assigned dutles as Director of Central

Intelligence it is my wish that you serve as the Government's principal

foreign intelligence officer, and as such that you undertake, as an in-

tegral part of your responsibility, the coordination and eflective guld-

ance of the total United States foreign Intelligence effort. As the

Government's principal intelligence officer, you will assure the proper

coordination, correlation, and evaluation of intelligence from all

sources and its prompt dissemination to me and to other recipients

as appropriate. In fulfilment of these tasks I shall expect you to

work closely with the heads of all departments and agencies having

responsibilities in the foreign intelligence field.

In coordinating and guiding the total intelligence effort, you will

serve as Chairman of the United States Intelligence Board, with a

vlew to assuring the eficient and effective operation of the Board and

Its associated bodies. In this connection I note with approval that you

have designated jour deputy to serve as a member of the Board,

thereby bringing to the 'Board's deliberations the relevant facts and

judgments of the Central Intelligence agency.

As directed by the President and the National. Security Council

you will establish with the advice and assistance of the United States

Intelligence Board the necessary polieles and procedures to assure

adequate coordination of foreign intelligence activities at all levels.

With the heads of the Departments and Agencies concerned you

will maintain a continuing revlew of the programs and activities of

all U.S. agencies engaged in foreign intelligence activitles with a vlew

to assuring efficiency and eftectiveness and to avolding undesirable

duplication.

As head of the Central Intelligence Agency, while you will continue

to have over-all responsibility for the Agency, I shall expect you to

delegate to your principal deputy, as you may deem necessary, so much

of the direction of the detailed operation of the Agency as may be

required to permit you to carry out your primary task as Director of

Central: Intelligence.

It is my wish that you keep me advised from time to time as to

your progress in the implementation of this directive and as to any

recommendations you may have which would facilltate the accom-

plishment of these objectives.

/S/ JOHN F. KENNEDY

Revised: 16 August 1963

5

---

## Page 9

13-00000

HR 1-2b

ORGANIZATION

D. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR. The Deputy Director "shall act for, and exercise

the powers of, the Director during his absence or disabllity" (section 102(a)

of the National Security Act). He also acts in compliance with the letter of

January 16, 1982 and other Presidential directives, and the Director's Delega-

tion of Authority to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, dated 2

April 198%, as follows:

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY

I hereby delegate to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

all authorities vested in me by law or by virtue of my position

as Director of Central Intelligence and head of the Central Intelligence

Agency, Including, but not limited to, the certification authority set

forth in section 8(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949,

as amended, except for any authoritles the delegation of which is

prohibited by law.

All other delegations of authority currently in force remain valld

to the extent they are not inconsistent with this delegation.

Is/ JOHN A. McCONE

Director of Central Intelligence

C. THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. The Executive Director is responsible for over-

all management of the Agency and of the Otfice of the Director; for coordi

nating component activities; and for performing such other duties as may

be assigned by the Director and the Deputy Director. The Executive Director

is charged with ensuring necessary action by the proper component on de

cisions of the Director and the Deputy Director; with overseeing internal man-

agement; and with ensuring coordination of component activities. He en-

sures that all components are kept advised of policy decisions or intra-govern-

mental actions allecting them, and he reviews all papers requiring action by

the Director or Deputy Director. As "Chief of Stafy" of the Agency, the

Executive Director acts for or in the absence of the Director and the Deputy

Director in exercising his directive and approval authority.

Revise 16 August 1963

---

## Page 10

13-00000

QWHIS

1R1-2

= 223)

HR 1-26

QRGANIZATION

B. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR. The Deputy Director "shall act for, and exercise

the powers of, the Director during his absence or disabllity" (section 102(a)

of the Natlonal Security Act). He also acts in compliance with the letter of

January 16, 1962 and other Presidential directives, and the Director's Delega-

tion of Authority to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, dated 2

April 196%, as follows:

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY

I hereby delegate to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

all authorities vested in me by law or by virtue of my position

as Director of Central Intelligence and head of the Central Intelligence

Agency, including, but not limited to, the certification authority set

forth in section 8(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949,

as amended, except for any authoritles the delegation of which is

probibited by law.

All other delegations of authority currently in force remain valid

to the extent they are not Inconsistent with this delegation.

IS/ JOHN A. McCONE

Director of Central Intelligence

c. THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR-COMPTROLLER. The

Executive Director-

Comptroller is responsible for overall management of the Agency and of

the Office of the Director; for coordinating component activitles; for directing

the budget, program analysis, and manpower functions of the Agency; and

for performing such other duties as may be assigned by the Director and the

Deputy Director.

The Executive Director-Comptroller is charged with ensur

ing necessary action by the proper component on decisions of the Director

and the Deputy Director; with overseeing internal management; and with

ensuring coordination of component activities.

He ensures that all compo-

nents are kept advised of policy decisions or intra-governmental actlons al-

fecting them, and he reviews all papers requiring action by the Director or

Deputy Director. As "Chief of Stafy" of the Agency, the Executive Director-

Comptroller acts for or in the absence of the Director and the Deputy Director

in exercising his directive and approval authority.

In support of the Executive

Director-Comptroller there are the following stall components.

Revised: 31 March 1984 (183)

---

## Page 11

13-00000

=*.

CONFIDENTIAL

ORGANIZATION

HR 1-2

2. OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

8. THE DIRECTOR. The Director of Central Intelligence is the President's

principal foreign Intelligence adviser and head of the Central Intelligence

Agency and Is responsible for the discharge of the responsibilitles of the

Agency and those of his position, as they are prescribed by the National

Security Act, the Central Intelligence Agency Act, other legislation, the Pres!-

dent's.letter of September 24, 1985 to the Director of Central Intelligence, and

by other Presidential directives. The letter of September 24, 1985 reads as

follows:

MEMORANDUM FOR

The Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT: Coordination of the United States

Foreign Intelligence Effort

Our Government Is making a substantial effort and Is expending large

sums of money to obtain timely intelligence vital to our national de-

fense and security. This effort requires the most efficient possible or

ganization of the activities of the virtous departments and agencies

concerned. It Is essential that these activities be conducted as an

соленая от и солны

Integrated endeavor best suited to meet both current and longer -tern

national intelligence needs. One di the essential objectives of this in-

tegrated enort is to give timely notice to me and to other oficials of

critical developments which have an important bearing on our na-

tonal security.

In view of the urgent necessit for maintaining effective coordination

of all U.S. foreign intelligenge functions, l request that you serve as

the Government's chief intelligence officer, and that you pursue as a

primary responsibility the ask of coordinating and guiding the total

u.s. foreign intelligence edort in accordance with National Security

Council Intelligence Direotive Number One of March 4, 1964.

In the performarice of your responsibility I shall expect you to work

closely with the heads pf U.S. Government departments and agencles

having foreign intelligence responsibilities, with a view to assuring

the proper coordination, correlation, evaluation and prompt dissem-

Ination of Intelligence obtained from all sources. You are authorized

and directed to establish, in consultation with member agencies of

the intelligence community, such arrangements and gulde lines as are

necessary for this purpose. It is my wish mat you receive from the

departments and agencies concerned the full cooperation and assist

ance which are essential to the success of your coordinating responsl-

bilty.

I will continue to look to your eflorts as & means of achleving signifi-

cant improvements in the organization, management, and enective-

ness of our over-all foreign Intelligence system.

IS/ LYNDON B. JOHNSON

Revised: 30 December 1965 (273)

CONFIDENTIAL

Encluded from eu

downgrading and

5

---

## Page 12

13-00000

HR 1-26 RESCINDE EY HR0-21

HE LORRANIZATION

DID T7ON.66

b. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR.

The Deputy Director "shall act for, and exercise

the powers of, the Director during his absence or disability" (section 102(a)

of the National Security Act). He also acts in compliance with Presidential

directives and the Director's Delegation of Authority to the Deputy Director

of Central Intelligence, dated 28 April 1965, as follows:

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY

• I hereby delegate to the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

all authorities vested in me by law or by virtue of my position

as Director of Central Intelligence and head of the Central Intelligence

Agency, Including, but not limited to, the certification authority set

forth in section 8(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949,

as amended, except for any authoritles the delegation of which is

prohibited by law.

All other delegations of authority currently in force remain' valid

to the extent they are not inconsistent with this delegation.

Is/ WILLIAM F. RABORN, JR.

Vice Admiral, USN (Ret.)

Director of Central Intelligence

c. THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR-COMPTROLLER. The

Executive Director

Comptroller is responsible for overall management of the Agency and of

the Office of the Director; for coordinating component activities; for directing

the planning, programming, and budgeting functions of the Ageney; and

for performing such other dutles as may be assigned by the Director and the

Deputy Director.

The Executive Director Comptrolier Is charged with ensur

ing necessary action by the proper component on decisions of the Director

and the Deputy Director, with overseeing Internal management; and with

ensuring coordination of component activities. He ensures that all compo-

nents are kept advised of policy decisions or intra-governmental actlons af

fecting them, and he reviews all papers requiring action by the Director or

Deputy Director. As "Chief of Staf!" of the Agency, the Executive Director-

Comptroller acts for or in the absence of the Director and the Deputy Director

in exercising his directive and approval authority.

In support of the Executive

Director-Comptroller there are the following staff components:

Revised: 30 December 1985 (279)

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 13

13-00000

MASTER COPY

ORGANIZATION

He test Slut #14.

16 aug. 6

EN 1-6

29 November 1961

ASSUMPTION OF OFFICE

I. Having been duly appointed and sworn, the under-

signed hereby assumes, effective Immediately, the duties

and responsibilities of Director of Central Intelligence.

General C. P. Cabell, USAF, will continue in his

capacity as Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, with

full authority to act as and for the Director in his

absence, and to perform such other functions as may be

assigned.

All CIA orders, regulations, instructions, des-

gnations, and delegations of authority in effect on this

late shall continue in force until otherwise amended,

superseded, or revoked.

JOHN A. McCONE

Director of Central Intelligence

DISTRIBUTION:

ALL, EMPLOYEES

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SECRET

ORGANIZATION

TwIs

# 183/ HR 1-3

SIMONIA

CIA SIGINT OFFIOER

(1) MISSTON. The CIA SIGINT Officer shall:

cal arse

(a) ¡Advise and assist the Director of Central Intelligence in the formu-

lation, implementation, and coordination of SIGiNt policles.

(b) Coordinate the CIA SIGINT program.

(c) Act for the Director in SIGINT matters, as appropriate.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The CIA SIGINT Officer shall:

(a). Coordinate the Agency position in SIGINT matters under considera-

tion by USUB.

(b) Develop, recommend, and provide centralized guidance for the estab

lishment and conduct of CIA SIGINT activities in accordance with

policies established by USIB.

(c) Provide guidance to Agency Operating Officials in the implementation

of national SIGINT policies.

(a) Levy CIA SIGINT requirements on NSA.

(e) Conduct CIA liaison with the National Security Agency and with

other USIB member departments and agencies in matters affecting

SIGINT policy:

(1)

Advise the Director in consultation with appropriate CIA components

on the implications of SIGINT-related proposals or recommendations

of the President's Board of Constants on Foreign Intelligence AC

tivities, and similar bodies, and prepare recommendations thereon

(g)

Coordinate the Agency response to NSA's annual CLA support and

requirements.

(h) Develop and publish, in consultation with appropriate CIA compo-

nents, CIA regulations governing. the procurement, use, security, and

control of SIGINT based on USIB policies.

(1) Direct the CIA SIGINT security program.

(j) Supervise and direct the activitles of the Special Intelligence Stati,

€.

Perform such other functions as the Directos ma disres

ASSISTANT TO DCI FOR COORDINATION. The Assistant for

Coordination

will assist the Director of Central Intelligence in the coordination of the in-

telligence activitles of the Government, as prescribed by statute and National

Security Council directives. He Is responsible for continuous study, teview,

and submission to the Director of possibilities for increasing integration re-

ducing duplication, and improving coordination within the natlonal intelli-

gence enort, in consultatten with representatives of other intelligence agencies.

3. INDEPENDENT OFFICES

a. OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

(1) THE INSPECTOR GENERAL. The Inspector General is charged with the

responsibility of directing and coordinating the activities of the Inspec

tion Staff and the Audit Statt in conducting inspections, investigations,

and audits on behalf of the Director throughout the Agency, both at

headquarters and in the field, and performing such other functions as

may be directed by the. Director.

(2) INSPECTION STAFF. The Chief, Inspection Staff shall:

(a) Survey and evaluate the assignment and performance of the missions

and functions prescribed for all components of the Agency and make

GROUP I

Revised: 16 August 1963

Excluded from aulamatis

7

SECRET

doungroding and

declassification

---

## Page 15

13-00000

ORGANIZATION

recommendations for such improvements as may assist them more

fully to perform their appropriate functlons.

of Interest, and other matters involving misfeasance, malfeasance,

nonfeasance, or violations of trust.

(c) Provide a forum where Agency personnel may, on a highly confiden-

tial basis, confide grievances or complaints which have not received .

satisfactory consideration through regular channels of command.

(d) Provide the Agency's Fair Employment Policy Officer.

(3) AUDIT STAFF. The Chief, Audit Staft shall:

(a) Perform independent audit of all matters relating to the receipt, dis-

bursement, and application of funds and assets avallable to CIA,

giving due regard to generally accepted principles of auditing.

(b) Examine the financial and property accounts of Agency activities to

ensure that Agency policies, practices, and procedures are followed.

(c) Ascertain that expenditures are made and financial and material

assets are used only in the furtherance of authorized activities and

in accordance with laws applicable to the Agency and Agency regu-

lations.

(d) Determine that the Agency collects and accounts properly for all

revenues and receipts arising from its activities.

(e) Determine that the financial and material assets of the Agency, or

in its custody, are adequately safeguarded and controlled in

efficient manner.

(1) Recommend policy and procedural changes in the interest of proper

accounting for and expenditure of Government funds and material

assets.

(g) Recognize that the maintenance of the security of operations is a

basic consideration in all actions and recommendations, ensuring

maintenance of operational cover and adequate protection of intelli-

gence sources and methods.

(h) Submit audit reports containing findings and recommendations to

the Deputy Director concerned, the organizational component con-

cerned, and other officials whose responsibilities may be involved.

(1) Ensure that audit report matters and recommendations not promptly

and properly acted upon are referred through the Inspector General

to the Director of Central Intelligence for final resolution.

D. OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL

(1) MISSION. The General Counsel is responsible for all legal matters arising

in connection with the officlal business of the Agency and the supervision

of the Legislative Counsel, whose functions will be carried out by the

Deputy General Counsel.

(2) FUNCTIONS

(a) The General Counsel shall:

(1) Act as adviser to the Director on legal matters.

(2) Advise and assist all officlals and employees on legal matters

arising in connection with the omicial business of the Agency

Including review of all contracts of Interest to the Agency.

(3) Review all regulatory material of the Agency for legality prior

to publication.

8

Revised: 16 August 1963

SECRET

---

## Page 16

13-00000

ORGANIZATION i

SECRET

Sages

# 1832 HR 1-3b(2)(b)

(4) Study and recommend Agency action in connection with proposed

legislation in order to preserve or attain legislative requirements

of the Agency, including interpretation of existing and proposed

legislation.

(5) Be responsible for and control all general liaison outside the

Agency relating to legal matters.

(6) Maintain a panel of private attorneys who are cleared for use in

connection with all Agency activities and be responsible for selec-

tion and use of private attorneys in respect to Agency matters

for whatever purpose.

(b) The Legislative Counsel shall control all llaison with the Congress

.of the United States, its individual members and committees, and

their staffs, and with legislative liaison stafis of other executive de-

legislation, and proposed Executive orders.

Revised

16 August 1963

SECRET

GROUP I

¿setudod loom onlomalic

dowagrosing and

deslosification

---

## Page 17

13-00000

* .

".

SECRET

ORGANIZATION

11m0o...

= 1871669

3. INDEPENDENT OFFICES

a. OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

(1) THE INSPECTOR GENERAL. The Inspector General is charged with the

responsibility of directing and coordinating the activitles of the Inspec-

ton Staff and the Audit Staff in conducting inspections, investigations,

and audits on behalf of the Director throughout the Agency, both at

headquarters and in the field, and performing such other functions as

may be directed by the Director.

(2) INSPECTION STAFF. The Chief, Inspection Staff shall:

(a) Survey and evaluate the assignment and performance of the missions

and functions prescribed for all components of the Agency and make

recommendations for such improvements as may assist them more

fully to perform their appropriate functions.

•) Investigate charges and reports of fraud, misuse of funds, conflic

of interest, and

nonfeasance, or violations of trust.

Provide a forum where Agency personnel may, on a highly confiden-

tial basis, confide grievances or complaints which have not received

satisfactory consideration through regular channels of command.

(d) Provide the Agency's Fair Employment Policy Officer.

(3)

AUDIT STAFF. The Chief, Audit Staff shall:

(a) Perform independent audit of all matters relating to the receipt, dis-

bursement, and application of funds and assets avallable to CIA,

giving due regard to generally accepted principles of auditing.

(b) Examine the financial and property accounts of Agency activitles to

ensure that Agency policies, practices, and procedures are followed.

lations.

(d) Determine that the Agency collects and accounts properly for all

revenues and receipts arising from its activities.

efficient manner.

I Recommend policy and procedural changes in the interest or prope

counting for and expenditure of Government funds and materi

assets.

(8) Reco co the the maint ate a tid recute adapons, ensure

maintenance of operational cover and adequate protection of intelll-

gence sources and methods.

1) Submit audit reports containing findings and recommendations

se Deputy Director concerned, the organizational component con

cerned, and other officials whose responsibilities may be involved.

Ensure that audit report matters and recommendations not promptly

and properly acted upon are referred through the Inspector General

to the Director of Central Intelligence for final resolution.

Revised: 31 March 1964 (183)

SECRET

Exceded from putomatte

doungrosing

and

d'estassification

11

---

## Page 18

13-00000

',

SECRET

Dage I rescinded

ORGANIZATION

HR 1-3b

b. OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL

(1) MISSION.

The General Counsel Is responsible for all legal matters arising

In connection with the official business of the Agency.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The General Counsel sball:

(a) Act as adviser to the Director on legal/matters.

(b) Advise and assist all officials and employees on legal matters arising

in connection with the official business of the Agency Including revlew

of all contracts of interest to the Agency.

(c) Review all regulatory material of the Agency for legality prior to

publication.

• (d) Be responsible for and control all general liaison outside the Agency

relating to legal matters.

(e) Maintain a panel of private attorneys who are cleared for use in con-

nection with all Agency activities and be responsible for selections

and use of private attorneys in respect to Agency matters for whatever

purpose.

•. OFFICE OF LÉGISLATIVE COUNSEL

(1) MISSION. The Legislative Counsel is responsible for all congressional

matters arising in connection with the official business of the Agency.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Legislative Counsel shall:

(a) Keep the Director informed/on all congressional matters involving or

affecting the Agency.

(b) Study and recommend Agency action in connection with proposed

legislation in order to preserve or attain legislative requirements of the

Agency:

(c) Control all lalson with the Congress of the United States, its individual

members and committers, and their stails, and with legislative llaison

staiis of other executive departments and agencies.

(d) Subject to coordination with the Director of Planning, Programming.

and Budgeting, conduct liaison with the Bureau of the Budget with

respect to proposed legislation, enrolled bills, reports on proposed

legislation, and proposed Executive orders.

(e) Supervise the bundling of congressional correspondence and inquirles.

d. OFFICE OF NATIONAL ESTIMATES.

The Director of National Estimates is

directly responsible to the Director of Central Intelligence for the production

of National Intelligence Estimates and of other intelligence issuances of a pri-

12

Revised: 16 December 1966 (317)

SECRET

---

## Page 19

13-00000

HR 1-4 RESCIO I MET A

*SO TRATON

DATES 16 AAC46

D. OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL

(1) MISSION. The General Counsel is résponsible for all legal matters arising

in connection with the official business of the Agency and the supervision

of the Legislative Counsel, whose functions will be carried out by the

Deputy General Counsel.

(2) FUNCTIONS

(a) The General Counsel shall:

(1) Act as adviser to the Director on legal matters.

(2) Advise and assist all officlals and employees on legal matters

arising in connection with the official business of the Agency

Including review of all contracts of interest to the Agency.

(3) Revlew all regulatory material of the Agency for legality prior

to publication.

(1) Study and recommend Agency action in connection with proposed

legislation in order to preserve or attain legislative requirements

of the Agency, including Interpretation of existing and proposed

legislation.

(5) Be responsible for and control all general liaison outside the

Agency relating to legal matters.

(6) Maintain a panel of private attorneys who are cleared for use in

connection with all Agency activities and be responsible for selec-

tion and use of private attorneys in respect to Agency matters

for whatever púrpose.

(b) The Legislative Counsel shall control all liaison with the Congress

of the United States, Its individual members and committees, and

their stafts, and with legislative liaison staffs of other executive de-

partments and agencies, and, subject to coordination with the DI-

rector of Budget, Program Analysis, and Manpower, conduct lialson

with the Bureau of the Budget with respect to proposed legislation,

enrolled bills, reports on proposed legislation, and proposed Executive

orders.

4. GENERAL AUTHORITIES AND DELEGATIONS

a, DEPUTY DIRECTORS. The Deputy Director for Science and Technology,

the Deputy Director for Plans, the Deputy Director for Intelligence, and the

Deputy Director for Support perform the duties and functions indicated in

paragraphs He 1-11, HR. 1-12, HR 1-13, and ER 1-1, respectively. In addi-

tion, the Deputy Director for Support Is designated to exereise the authorities

of the "Executive of the Agency" conferred by section 3(b) of the Central

Intelligence Agency Act. Except when prohibited from so doing, the Deput

Directors may delegate to their subordinates appropriate portions of thel

authoritles.

Such delegations of authority shall in no way relleve the Deputy

B. OPERATING OFFICIALS. Operating Officials (the Director of Budget, Pro-

gram Analysis, and Manpower; and officials reporting directly to a Deputy

Director) shall have full authority to carry out the functions for which they

are made responsible elther by regulations or by the Executive Director-

Comptroller or a Deputy Director. Except when prohibited from so doing, they

may delegate to their subordinates appropriate portions of their authoritles.

Such delegations of authority shall in no way relleve the Operating Omelal

concerned of his responsibility.

5-10.

Reserved.

12

SECRET

Revised: 31 March 1964 (183)

---

## Page 20

13-00000

HR 1-3b

RESCINDED BY

SECRET, - 3 L

DATED 19 Ma.25

HIS 35S

ORGANIZATION

b. OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL

(1) MISSION. The General Counsel is responsible for all legal matters arising

in connection with the omicial business of the Agency.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The General Counsel shall:

(a) Act as adviser to the Director on legal matters.

(b) Advise and assist all officials and employees on legal matters arising

in connection with the official business of the Agency including review

of all contracts of interest to the Agency.

(c) Revlew all regulatory material of the Agency for legality prior to

publication.

(d) Be responsible for and control all general liaison outside the Agency

relating to legal matters.

(e) Maintain a panel of private attorneys who are cleared for use in con-

nection with all Agency activities and be responsible for selections

and use of private attorneys in respect to Agency matters for whatever

purpose.

c. OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

(1) MISSION. The Legislative Counsel is responsible for all congressional

matters arising in connection with the "omcial búsiness of the Agency.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Legislative Counsel shall:

(a) Keep the Director Informed on all congressional matters involving or

affecting the Agency.

b) Study and recommend Agency action in connection with propose

egislation in order to preserve or attain legislative requirements of th

Agency.

(c) Control all liaison with the Congress of the United States, its individual

members and committees, and their stafis, and with legislative lialson

staffs of other executive departments and agencies.

and-Budgeting, conduct liaison with the Bureau of the Budget with

respect to proposed legislation, enrolled bills, reports on proposed

legislation, and proposed Executive orders.

(e) Supervise the handling of congressional correspondence and inquirles.

: d.

OFFICE OF NATIONAL ESTIMATES. The Director of National Estimates 1s

directly responsible to the Director of Central Intelligence for the production

of National Intelligence Estimates and of other Intelligence Issuances of & pri-

marily estimative nature. The Director of National Estimates will sit as

Chairman of the Board of National Estimates. He will report directly to the

Director of Central Intelligence on substantive matters and maintain close

and continuous substantive consultation with the Deputy Director for Intel-

ligence.

is 858

12

Revised: 16 December 1966 (317)

SECRET

---

## Page 21

13-00000

SECRET

ORGANIZATION

HENDED BY AHR 1-3

DATED

HR 1-3

HIS ;

3. INDEPENDENT OFFICES

a. OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

(1). THE INSPECTOR GENERAl. The Inspector General is charged with the

responsibility of directing and coordinating the activitles of the Inspec-

tion Staff and the Audit Staff in conducting inspections, Investigations,

and audits on behalf of the Director throughout the Agency, both at

headquarters and in the field, and performing such other functions as

may be directed by the Director.

(2 INSure a tea to pereal of the missions

and functions prescribed for all components of the Agency and make

recommendations for such improvements as may assist them more

fully to perform their appropriate functions.

(b) Investigate charges and reports of fraud, misuse of funds, conflicts

of interest, and other matters involving misfeasance, malfeasance,

nonfeasance, or violation of trust, upon direction of the Director of

Central Intelligence, the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, or

the Executive; Director-Comptroller or upon request of the responsible

co) he sa!

(c) Provide a forum where Agency personnel may, on a highly confiden-

tial basis, confide grievances or complaints which have not received

satisfactory consideration through regular channels of command.

(d) Provide the Agency's Equal Employment Opportunity Officer.

(3)

AUDIT STAFF. The Chief, Audit Staff shall:

(a) Perform independent audit of all matters relating to the recelpt, dis-

bursement, and application of funds and assets avallable to CIA,

giving due regard to generally accepted principles of auditing.

(b) Examine the financial and property accounts of Agency activitles to

ensure that Agency policies, practices, and procedures are followed.

(c) Ascertain that expenditures are made and financial and material

assets are used only in the furtherance of authorized activities and

in accordance with laws applicable to the Agency and Agency regu-

lations.

(d) Determine that the Agency collects and accounts properly for all

revenues and receipts arising from its activities.

accounting for and expenditure of Government funds and material

assets.

basic consideration in all actions and recommendations, ensuring

gence sources and methods.

(h) Submit audit reports containing findings and recommendations to

the Deputy Director concerned, the organizational component con-

cerned, and other oficials whose responsibilities may be involved.

(1) Ensure that audit report matters and recommendations not promptly

and properly acted upon are referred through the Inspector General

to the Director of Central Intelligence for final resolution.

Revised: 18 February 1969 (437)

SECRET

GROUP T

Esctuded froes

proudo to contentionio

11

---

## Page 22

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

HR 1-36 RESCINDED BY HR 1-3 (Per HIS # 930) ORGANIZATION

DATED 4/19/76

. OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSET

(1) MISSION. The General Counsel is responsible for all legal matters arsing

In connection with the official business of the Agency.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The General Counsel will:

(a) Act as adviser to the Director on legal matters.

(b) Advise and assist all officials and employees on legal matters arising

In connection with the official business of the Agency including revlew

of all contracts of interest to the Agency.

(c) Review all regulatory material of the Agency for legality prior to

publication.

(d) Be responsible for and control all general liaison outside the Agency

relating to legal matters.

(e) Maintain a panel of private attorneys who are cleared for use in con-

nection with all Agency activities and be responsible for selections

and use of private attorneys in respect to Agency matters for whatever

purpose.

c. OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

(1) MISSION. The Legislative Counsel is responsible for all congressional

matters arising in connection with the official business of the Agency.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Legislative Counsel will:

(a) Keep the Director Informed on all congressional matters involving

or affecting the Agency.

(b) Study and recommend Agency action in connection with proposed

legislation.

(e) Control all Agency liaison with the Congress of the United States, Its

individual members and committees, and their staffs, and with legis

lative liaison staffs of other executive departments and agencles.

(d) Conduct liaison with the Office of Management and Budget with

respect to proposed legislation, enrolled bills, reports on proposed

legislation, and proposed Executive orders, keeping the Comptroller

appropriately advised.

(e) Supervise the handling of congressional correspondence and inquiries.

I'd. OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER

(1) MISSION. The Comptroller is responsible for the development, implemen-

tation, and administration of the systems by which the Agency plans for

Its resource requirements, budgets to meet those requirements, and con-

trols the resources obtained through the budgeting process.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Comptroller will:

(a) Develop, coordinate, and oversee the Agency's program planning and

resource allocation processes.

12

(d) Develop and monitor the implementation of the Agency's systems for

organizational performance evaluation and for management by ob-

(e) Provide special staff support as requested by the CIA Management

Committee and the Director of Central Intelligence.

(1) Control Agency relationships with the Office of Management and

Budget in accordance with HR 60-5.

Revised: 23 May 1975 (881)

ADMINISTRATIVEINTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 23

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

ORGANIZATION

RESCADEA EY HR 1-3 (PA B0S) HR 1-3

_ 930

3. ENDEPENDENT OFFICES LATER 4/19/760

& OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

* (1) THE INSPECTOR CENERAL. The Inspector General Is charged with

directing and coordinating the activitles of the Inspection Staff and the

Audit Staff In conducting studies, investigations, and audits on behalf

of the Director throughout the Agency, both at headquarters and in the

field, and performing such other functions as may be prescribed by the

Director.

(2) INSPECTION STAFF. The Chief, Inspecton Staff wil

(a) With the approval of the Director of Central Intelligence, survey and

evaluate any problem area called to its attention by its own investl-

gations or by the Director of Central Intelligence, the Deputy Director

of Central Intelligence, or the CIA Management Committee, or upon

request of the responsible Deputy Director or Head of Independent

Office, reporting its findings and conclusions as appropriate.

Investigate charges and reports of fraud, misuse of funds, conflicts

of interest, and other matters involving misfeasance, malleasance,

nonfeasance, or violation of trust, upon direction of the Director of

Central Intelligence, the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, or

the CIA Management Committee, or upon request of the responsible

Deputy Director or Head of Independent Office.

(c)

Provide a forum where Agency personnel may, on & highly confidentlal

basis, confide grievances or complaints which have not received

satisfactory consideration through normal channels of command; the

Inspection Staff Is empowered to accept direct appeals from employees

when circumstances make it appropriate.

(3) AUDIT STAFF. The Chief, Audit Staff will:

(a) Perform independent audits or audit reviews of all matters related

to receipt, disbursement, and application of funds and assets avall-

able to CIA, consistent with accepted standards of auditing, to ensure

that applicable laws and Agency policies, regulations, and procedures

are followed.

(b)

Conduct supplementary, independent program audits of Agency opera-

tions pursuant to the audit standards established by the Comptroller

General. Such audits will cover Agency-wide subject matter selected

In coordination with the Comptroller or directorate problems selected

in coordination with the Deputy Director concerned. For purposes

of coordinating independent program audits, substantially quallfied

officers will be detalled to the Audit Stall.

(c).

Submit audit reports containing findings and recommendations to the

Deputy Director concerned, the organizational component concerned,

and other officials whose responsibilities may be involved; and, ensure

that audit reports with recommendations that cannot be resolved

satisfactorily at operating levels be referred to the Director of Central

Intelligence through the Inspector General for final resolution.

L See HR 31-1 for further detail on the Audit program.

-Revised: 30 May 1975 (881)

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

11

---

## Page 24

13-00000

MASTER COPY

SECRET

Ih18 Notice Expires 1 May 1964

ORGANIZATION

HN 1-33

3 Apr1l 1963

ORGANIZATION OF THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Attached is a directive concerning the organization and respon-

sibilities of the Office of the Director.

All officials will please insure that personnel under their

urisdiction are familiar with the contents of this Notice. Additiona

opies are available in Regulations Control Staff, DD/S, Room [GD- 15*

Marshall S. Carter

Lieutenant General, USA

Deputy Director

DISTRIBUTION:

AB

SPECIAL

SECRET

GROUP!

Excluded from automotic

loungreding ord

lecleusleetlo

sistel Palint.

slidied

---

## Page 25

13-00000

SECRET

ORGANIZATION

HN 1-33

3 April 1963

ORGANIZATION OF THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Introduction

1. This Notice outlines the organization and functioning of the

Office of the Director, the responsibilities of its personnel, and the

handling of communications in and with that Office. The term Office of

the Director includes the immediate offices of the DCI, the DDCI, the

Executive Director, and all Assistants to the Director. The Office of

the Director will be able to provide prompt policy guidance, assistance

and responses to the needs of the operating components of the Agency if

procedures detailed in this Notice are followed.

Individual Responsibilities

2. The responsibilities of the DCI and the DDCI were set forth by

the President in a letter to the Director, dated 16 January 1962, which

is quoted in part as follows:

"... it is my wish that you serve as the Government'e principal

foreign intelligence officer, and as such that you undertake, as an

integral part of your responsibility, the coordination and effective

guidance of the total United States foreign intelligence effort. As the

Government's principal intelligence officer, you will assure the

proper coordination, correlation, and evaluation of intelligence from

all sources and its prompt dissemination to me and to other recipienta

as appropriate. In fulfillment of these taske I sball expect you to

work closely with the heads of all departments and agencies having

responsibilities in the foreign intelligence field.

"In coordinating and guiding the total intelligence effort, you will

serve as Chairman of the United States Intelligence Board, with a

view to assuring the efficient and effective operation of the Board and

its associated bodies. In this connection I note with approval that you

have designated your deputy to serve as a member of the Board,

thereby bringing to the Board's deliberations the relevant facts and

judgments of the Central Intelligence Agency®

GROUP !

Encluded from entomerle

SECRET

---

## Page 26

13-00000

SECRET

"As directed by the President and the National Security

Council, you will establish with the advice and assistance of the

United States Intelligence Board the necessary policies and pro-

cedures to assure adequate coordination of foreign intelligence

activities at all levels.

"With the heads of the Departments and Agencies concerned

you will maintain a continuing review of the programs and activities

of all .S. agencies engaged in foreign intelligence activities with a

view to assuring efficiency and effectiveness and to avoiding

undesirable duplication.

"As head of the Central Intelligence Agency, while you will

continue to have over-all responsibility for the Agency, I shall

expect you to delegate to your principal deputy, as you may deem

necessary, so much of the direction of the detailed operation of the

Agency as may be required to permit you to carry out your primary

task as Director of Central Intelligence. "

3. The Deputy Director of Central Intelligence directs the detailed

operations of the Central Intelligence Agency, as well as being the CLA

member of the USIB as indicated above. Statutory authorities of the

Director have been delegated by him to the Deputy Director. In the DCI's

absence, the DDCI is Acting Director of Central Intelligence and Acting

Chairman of the USIB, and represents the DCI on all of the inter-agency

boards and groups on which the Director sits.

4. The Executive Director is responsible for over-all management of

the Agency and of the Office of the Director. He is charged with ensuring

necessary action by the proper component on decisions of the DCI and

DDCI, with responsibility for overseeing internal management, and for

ensuring coordination of component activities. It is the Executive Director's

responsibility to ensure that Agency components are kept advised of all

policy decisions or intra-governmental actions affecting them. All papers

reguiring action on the part of either the Director of Deputy Director will

be routed through the Executive Director. The Executive Director, as the

"Chief of Staff" of the Agency, acts for or in the absence of the DCI and

DDCI in exercising his directive and approval authority.

5. The Executive Assistant to the Director is responsible for prepar-

ing briefing papers and books for meetings attended by the DCl such as

the Special Group, the National Security Council, Committee of Principals

and the NSC Standing Group, and for advising the Executive Director of

the need for action, as may be required by deliberations of these or other

groups. He is responsible for keeping the Director and the DDCI advised

on a 24-hour basis of all informational and intelligence developments.

=2=

SECRET

---

## Page 27

13-00000

SECRET

6. The Assistant to the Director (Historical Staff) is responsible

for review and coordination of Agency relations with the press and other

public media, and of matters which might involve the public disclosure

or acknowledgment of any CIA activity, employee or publication. His

responsibility applies particularly to all contacts with members of the

press, and to requests by Agency personnel to engage in writing for

external publication or to give talks outside the Agency.

7. The Assistant for Coordination provides advice and assistance

concerning the coordination of foreign intelligence activities within the

intelligence community, and Agency relationships with other intelligence

agencies. Papers dealing with such matters will be routed by the

Executive Registry to the Office of the Assistant for Coordination prior to

action by the DCI or DDCI.

8. The Executive Secretary, United States Intelligence Board, is

responsible for direction of the USIB Secretariat and for assisting the DCI

in his capacity as Chairman of USIB. All matters for USIB action will be

routed by the Executive Registry to the USIB Executive Secretary.

9. The Cable Secretary is responsible on an Agency-wide basis for

the release and distribution of cables.

10. The Executive Registry is the central document file for the Office

of the Director and its Chief is responsible for the control and location

of all papers throughout the Office. The Registry is compartmented for

reasons of security to ensure proper handling of papers of all classifica

tions and degrees of sensitivity. Any question concerning the clearances

of personnel to handle special classifications should be taken up with the

Chief of the Registry. All papers moving into and out of the Office of the

Director, whatever their classification, will be sent initially to the

Executive Registry for appropriate logging and so that control can be

exercised over their location.

Consequently, papers should not be hand-

carried to any individual in the Director'& Office but should be taken

directly to the Executive Registry®

The Registry will ensure expeditious

handling with the precedence desired. The point is emphasized that

papers which are not processed in this manner may possibly be lost, or

create security problems.

11. The Administrative Officer is responsible for administrative

matters affecting the immediate Office of the Director. These include,

but are not limited to, such items as personnel actions, fiscal and budget

matters, travel, logistical support, space arrangements, ete. All

matters of such a nature will be coordinated through the office of the

Administrative Officer.

-3.

SECRET

---

## Page 28

13-00000

SECRET

12. The Director's Security Staff maintains the physical security

of the Office of the Director and is also responsible at all times for the

security of the DCI.. The Chief of the Director's Security Staff will be

notified or consulted concerning any matters affecting these responsi-

bilities.

Daily Briefings and Meetings of the Office of the Director

3.

Each morning the Director is briefed on the latest world develop-

ment®

Attending this briefing are all members of the Executive Com-

mittee.

Following the briefing operational matters or management items

of concern to the Director or DDCI are reported. Components having

items other than intelligence which they wish to call promptly to the

attention of the Director of Deputy Director should do this through their

member of the Executive Committee, or they may advise the Olice of

the Executive Director either the previous day or before 9:00 A..

Time

permitting, the items will be reported at the morning briefing.

14.

The Executive Director conducts staff meetings daily at 3:00 P.M.,

attended by key officers of the Director's staff, for the purpose of exchang-

ing information on activities rélating to the Office of the Director and for

ensuring prompt and complete action. Components having items which they

wish taken up at this meeting may advise the Office of the Executive

Director, or one of the Assistants to the Director, before the meeting.

Papers Prepared by the Office of the Director

15. Action Memoranda are prepared by the Director's staff on matters

requiring action by components of the Agency. A central file and follow-up

system is maintained on all Action Memoranda by the Office of the

Executive Director. A weekly list of Action Memoranda still pending will

be provided each Deputy Director. One of the Assistants to the Director

is charged with following implementation of all Action Memoranda.

Components can assist by keeping the Executive Director's office currently

informed of prógress on Action Memoranda.

16. Exécutive Memoranda are prepared by the Director's staff on any

matters of concern to the senior echelon of the agency. The purpose of the

Exeçútive Memorandum is to advise on discussions held by the Director or

Deputy Director or other senior officials which afiect Agency activities or

enunciate policies. In addition, Executive Memoranda are used to report

to the senior echelon of the Agency information that does not fall within the

-4=

SECRET

99

---

## Page 29

13-00000

SECRET

us given when required.

Office of the Executive Director.

99

Papere for the Oifice of the Director

17.

Action papers, i.e., papers requesting DCI or DDCI approval

for an Agency action, will be forwarded to the Office/of the Director in

an original and one copy with attachmente, and will be routed to the DDCI

and DCI through the Executive Director. After action the original will be

returned to the originating component where it becomes the official record

copy. The originating official is responsible for evaluating it for permanent

or temporary retention. The carbon will be maintained in the Executive

Registry for a period of six months after which it will be destroyed.

18. Information papers, intended only to inform the DCI or DDCI

(on other than substantive intelligence), will be forwarded to the Office of

the Director in an original and one carbon. The original will be returned

to the originating component after the DCI, DDCI and Executive Director

have been informed, with an indication to that effect on the memorandum.

(As indicated above, the original becomes the official record copy. ) One

carbon will be maintained in the Executive Registry for a period of 90 days

for the purpose of additional reference, if required, and then destroyed.

Officers attending interdepartmental meetings of importance to CiA should

make a record of the meetings, indicating positions and recommendations

of the ClA representative and, where appropriate, of others in attendance,

and setting forth the actions required by CIA. These memoranda should

be forwarded promptly to the Office of the Director.

19.. Intelligence information memoranda for the bol will be routed to

him by the Executive Registry and the Executive Assistant with a copy

each to the DDCI and the Executive Director. Unlesa there is some indica.

tion to the contrary, these will be destroyed after use.. All components are

enjoined to insure that al raw intelligence, special reporte or other

information of interest of concern to the principal officers of CIA or of the

Government are promptly called to the attention of the Office of the Director.

20. Preparation of material for signature. Memoranda or lettere

going outside the Agency prepared for DOl or Diel signature should be

transmitted to the Executive Registry with an original and one copy for

the addressee, one copy marked for the "signing official, and one marked

for "Executive Registry." (Additional copies to be determined by the

• 5

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excleded from aromatic

downgreding end

dediassificatie

---

## Page 30

13-00000

SECRET

originating office.) After signature the letter or memorandum will be

dispatched by the Executive Registry; one copy will be retained in the

Registry and the remainder will be conformed and disseminated as

Indicated by the office of origin. Secretaries should consult the senior

secretaries within their own division or office for additional guidance on

the preparation of correspondence for signature or approval öf DCI oF

DDCI. It'le the responsibility of the originating component to ensure that

this correspondence is properly prepared, coordinated and assembled

before it reaches the Office of the Director.

Appointments

21. Appointments to see the Director, or to arrange for others to

see the Director, may be made by telephoning Extension 6363. The

Director's wishes will be ascertained and the requesting component

advised.

Appointments to

see the DDCI, or to arrange for others to see

him, may be made by telephoning Extension 6464.

220 Requesto for appointments for the DCI OF DDCI to receive foreiga

visitors or prominent U. S. nationals, either in office interviews or by

hosting luncheons, shall be submitted to the Office of the DCI or DDCI

through the appropriate Deputy Director. After a date has-been confirmed

it is incambent upon the visitor's sponsors to provide the necessary

biographic data and background information concerning the visitor, and

also conversational topics which the visitor may evoke or which the

Sponsor recommends be pursued.

• 6.

SECRET

99

2/12

---

## Page 31

13-00000

SECRET

ORGANIZATION

HN 1-33

3 April 1963

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

MI. John A. McCone, Director

03

03

03

Secretary to the Director

Secretary to the Director

Secretary to the Director

Room (ID 5602) Extension 5363)

Lieutenant General Marshall S. Carter, Deputy Director

0z

Secretary to the Deputy Director

03

Secretary to the Deputy Director

Room

601),

24

Extension 6464)

24

MI. Lyman B. Kirkpatrick, Jr., Executive Director

03

Assistant to the Executive Director

0z

Secretary

Room

59 Extension 6761)24

22/R1

Mr. Walter Elder, Executive Assistant to the Director

- • secretary

Room (2D 5617) Extension 1805) =4

03

Executive Assistant to the Deputy Director

03

I Secretary

Room ID 6011) Extension 5566)

24

Mr. E. Henry Knoche, Assistant to the Director

03

Secretary

Room (ID 5611) cretarion (8os))

.24

- 7-

SECRET

GROUP 1

Encedod from sutematle

downgreding and

deciouitication

---

## Page 32

13-00000

SECRET

03

7 Assistant to the Director

Secretary

34

Room ID 5612) Extension 155)

03

Assistant to the Director

031

03

1 Secretary

Clerk

Room

(DE OT Extension E4445 ×4

03

Assistant to the Director

03

Secretary

Room (ID 59]) Extension(E301)

24

24

Col, Stanley Grogan, Assistant to the Director, and

Chief of the Historical Staff

Secretary

room to us intensic to?

Brigadier General Jesmond Balmer, Assistant for Coordination

03

Secretary

Room ME 22 Extension 5133.

24

MI. James S. Lay, JI., Deputy Assistant for Coordination, and

Executive Secretary of the United States

Intelligence Board

05

Secretary

Room (U2 22) Extension (921)

- 8 -

SECRET

z2/1

---

## Page 33

13-00000

83

05

CTINN

03

03

SECRET

Chief of the Cable Secretariat

Secretary

Room (LA 53)) Extension((83a)

1 Chief of the Director's Security Staff

Secretary

Room (ID 60) Extension 5906)

Administrative Officer

Room KD 602] Extension E678) ^

24:

24

Chief of the Executive Registry

Room (25 12)) Extension 58241) 24

24

Correspondence Control Officer

Room [7E 071) Extension (b668))

24.

= 9

SECRET

GROUP I

Excluded free eutomatt

downgreding and

decessitiention

---

