# 104-10227-10103

## Page 1

104-10227-10103].

ORIG: MARTHA THARPE: mas

UNIT. WH/4/PA-PROP

EXP : 4915

DAIR ZJULY 1261

1912

10 • IMWAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONP,

BELL 10

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

- 121?4255/2

Il Piting letora enol

• Ca Permed Yatgo, Blestrog

Proner amy for to losseale

8JLS1 3 48z

TO

BOSTIN

0T44L21

49624

disgfile

WAVE

INFO

CITE DA

JMZIP

REF: WAVE 6974 (IN 34069)*

1. THERE HAS BEEN NO NEW DESIGNATION OF ODYOKE AGENCY FO

1

HANDLING AMBUD AS STATED REF, ODACID AND OFFICE ODYOKE CHIEF

EXECUTIVE CONTINUE AS OFFICIAL POINTS OF CONTACT FOR AMBUD AS

WELL AS OTHER CUBAN EXILE GROUPS.

2. FYI ON 3 JULY PARLETT INTRODUCED IDEN TO AMBUD-I AS

5

RAY CLARK PBPRIMER INTERESTED IN CUBAN SITUATION A'D FRIEND

WHOM AMBUD-1 SHOULD FEEL FREE TO CALL FOR ADVICE, FOR THE

PRESENT WE WILL MAINTAIN THIS INFORMAL CHANNEL TO AMBUD. 1

FOR PURPOSE OF LISTENING POST.

3. CONCUR PARA 2 RET.

AND OF MESSAGE

2/11

Ri/TY

WH/4/FI-CI

WH/COP3

WH/CA

J.C. XING, C/WHD

#DISASINO ORDICIN

COOSDIMATING OPI

B.R. DAVIS. Condi

SECRE

AUto

REPRODAGTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIONED.

KOPO0 N NIN E

030)

---

## Page 2

145000

0:O •

UNIT.

EXP

D'AYE,

10 1

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

POUTING

DIRECTOR

CONT

INFO,

So C& Arand Malue. Atredrey.

• Drench part find so end ale

I reenina tart 00r0o

Hearted O

None regard 0)

PACE TIN

INFO

DEFINIO

routiNe

our 74121

Cite ot

49624

• Roferenced DIE 48744 which WATA Interpreted an new denlenation of ODAdID

açonoy to handle AlBUD and coneldered encouraging development fron YAVi atsodnoint

sInce vould olear up confuston causod by previous mitiple obamela.

Acked

questions so ODACID conteot with AMBID In WAVE aron and whather ClACID would handle

6 AMIRO, Pars 2 unid tVs preferred, for security remont, not dinoun with

6 -AMIRON matter

of traneferring Altinol personnel fron San Pedro Sale to Segrolgran

au requestod by Station ThOU.

-..

COPY

COOPOIMALINO ORDISINI

Salf-l-bar

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

K24M 1389 VEGANN

Copy N

---

