# 104-10177-10053

## Page 1

104-10177-10053

DISPATCH

Chief,

SB

CLASSIS CANNON

RYBAT_

SECRET

22043SNG ASTON

RETURN TO

Background Use

Do Not Reproduce

43 INCLINS ROUTRID

1SY NICE INDURING

гасм

Chief of Station,

SUBJICT

(AEMAKEUP OZ

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERINCES

Reference:

112-12

F20452521, 26 Biay 1868

Attached are three reports, as explained in para 2 of

Relerence, on the following toples:,

Marira and Lee Harvey OSWALD

Soviet Defectors

& Kenneth H. PHILBROOK

- Herewith

Atta huanes aborterew copies each

Distribution:

2-C/SB w/atts

Document Number

1206-438 B

for FOIA Review on FEB I911

As of Nov 73 file review, these attachments

removed for fittiay filing:

OULDEMAKEUP DEBRIEFING - Final Roports,

CÍA, April-July 68, Pretorta

CROSS RIPERENCE 1O

GROUP I - EXCLUDED FROSS AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

JOSPAICH SYMBOL AND RUBER*

DARE

22(AZPÃ)-2534

5 June 1968

CLASSIFICATIOY

SECRET

NOS RILE NUMBER

[46-478/2

7041001

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Marina and Loo HarveY 0SUD

Tho subject of the OSWALUs was Introducod Into tho

Interrogation during a discussion nbout the diffleulty a

Soviet citlzon, who marrlos a foreignor, encountors in

attempting to loave tho USSR If the KCP

chooses (for some

roason not to pormit tho soviet eltlzen to omigrato.

Subjoot stated that it goos without saying that prior to

rocolving XGB's

sanction not a single Sovlet citizon, wbether

ho or sho 1s marriod to a foroignol, would bo allovod to

leave

, the USSR.

Asked 1f the oase of Marina OSWALD's departure from

the Soviet Union was typical, Subject replied that her

departure from tbe Soviet Union was noitber typical nor usual.

particularly in vlor of the faot that hor husband, loe Harvey

DSWALD, was a vory strango individual.

He had been in Cuba,

and thon came to

the Soviet Union not'as a tourist, but ag

an American defector who renounced his American oitizenship

and attempted to become a Russian oltizen.

This in itsolf

is unusual for an American - it 1s not typical and vory raro

for an Amerioan to do so, and Subject belleved that an

•American doing what OSWALD did (seaking Soviet citizenship

and renouncing Amorican oitizenship)

could only do so because

ho was a traltor.

In answer to a request for his opinion rogarding the

OSWALD case,. Subject said that all of his information was based

only on what was known to everyone who read the nowspapers

attor the KENNEDY assasination and on what ho read in a con

donsed version of the Warren Report while he was in Wostern

Europe.

When pressed for his porsonal opinion he said it was

n very

unusual situation.

Normally a Soviet cittzon (like

Marina) would not bo allowed to leave the Soviot Union, in

faot the Sorlot authoritles would try in some way to convince

the ottizen not to leave.

However, If a Sovlet married a

foreigner.

and instated on leaving he or she could sirays, as

a last resort, be refused an oxit visa.

There have been

casos whore & Soviot oltizen marrled a foreigner and received

however, In such oases the Soviet authorities

have conceded to the arlt visa requests only becauso they felt

that the foroign spouse may havo had some influence, and could

havo croated adverse publioity for the Soviet Government had

the oxit visa not been granted.

This was definitoly not so

IT OSWALD's case.

OSWALD could not Insist that Marina be

granted an

exist visa since bo, was not in a position to do so.

and consequently the Soviot authorities sere not compolled to

do so unless they spoolically wanted to lot her go

to America

WIth OSWALD.

When asked to st1ll furtbor elaborato on bis bollois

rogarding the caso, Subject stated that in this case (OSWALD's),

Subjoct. couldn't guess,

and in order to come to any kind

of a

vabld conclusion he would bave to know sonething (factual),

which he doesn't, His opinion, however, is striotly an

opinion

without any basis or fact.

He

thinks that KGB was

definitoly intorested In OSWALD while the lattor resided

In the

USSR.

To presume that OSWALD could have livod in the Soviet

Union

as a simplo American is excluded.

Subjeot believes that

RIBAT SECRET

#: + 09-0558-559-65

1/BQ

---

## Page 3

=2=

the KGD kopt OSSALD In "thalr flold of vision" and

undoubtedly worked with him.

To Subjoct it Is unthinkable

since it

that the XGB would aiss such an opportu diLD) for work

always considors using poryong (such ay

o1 thor dirootly in intolligenco, as an agent, of in any

othor way "to infilot damago to

tho Wost"..

iskod whathor the assasination of President KENNEDY

could be considered as

"boing damaging to

the west", Subject

ansverod in the affirmative.

Subjoot explained that the existence of a government

the Unitod States 1s a throat to the Soviet regime.

The United States 13 an example to

the rost of the world

(Soriots Inoludod) that people can live, survive, and have

a highor standard of llving in a democracy.

Therefore, the

Soviet Union tried, and tries,

cut the U.S. Government

down at every opportunity.

Sinco• President KENNEDY was looked

many In the. Soviet Union

as a popular personality,

KENNEDY's porsonal attraction further raised this feeling

that Iiving in a democracy had its benefits, to an even higher

lovel with the general population of

the Soviet Union.

When asked 1f it was possible that KGB could or would

ever sanction suoh an

operation

(the assasination) Subject

answered

"yes, at that time (KHRUSHCHEV's) It could have"

KHRUSHCHEV was considered by Subjeot to. be an ignorant

Individual who was willing to take risks and adventurous

under

takings.

subjeet said,

hoverer,

that this could never occur

under

the present Soviet leadership.

Subject

considered that

the decision to carry

out such an operation, (the assasination)

could not have been

made by the Chairman

of

the KGS

since he

does not possess such

authority, and,

therefore, could only

have been made by KHRUSHCHEV himself.

Subject was asked if such an operation might not have

Involted a terrifle risk which could have possibly rosulted

in an armed contaiet between the tro nations, had soviet

involvement been proven by the Americans.

Subject felt that

aven 1$ the Amorieans did acouse the Soviot Government of

complicity in the assastration,

the Soviet Government would

cortainly deny such an American accusation, olaiming that the

Americans were using OSWALD, a orazy

man who had been in the

Soviet Union,

would say that the accusation was a provocation,

and in all probability vould ropudiate such American claims.

To undorline.

his point, Subject mentioned that even

though OSWALD was

In the Soviet Union, and was suspected

because he was in Cuba, nothing happened and the Sovlet Union

wasn't accused by the Americans.

---

