# 104-10165-10061

## Page 1

104-10165-10061

MAINLIO IN

FER GO

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTEICTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Pill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach baci

Ilap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy froet cover sheet, unless it

records significant action

concents requiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file so. and title shown are not

proper, lesert proper file no. below

and forsard documen: to RID/AJ.

PROPER FILE 50.

RID/

_ TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN-SECTION I DO BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMBLETE

goon

IVA REGISTRY

TO

ROOM

NO.

1.

FELL. SEGISTAY

CATE

RECRITTO

FOTHARDED'

+ 8039.210463

copy sent to suit montentes

COFY DETACHED

z1Mas 22

WHy/ Prop

A tape bell's... 'Hf41 Prpp..

12471

C

10.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

12.

14.

18.

16.

TH/A REGISTE

87.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST.

DATE MICROF LAED

ABSTRACT

INDER

TORA

9.90

610g

USE PREVIO

851910N$

Wind

FILE SUNDER (PRIMART CEOGI

261-175136

23 Marli

SECRET

BEAT NUMBER

HUNA 07445

640)

ISR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

NFO

FROM

DISPATCH

Chief, Wi Division

Chief of Base, WATE

CASSACAION

SECHLT

Ches of Btet10a, Hatersdoo S/.

Debate betveen Lula CONTE Aguero and Opponente

ACTION MOUTHS

Hone.

REFERENCKH

DISPAICH STMADI ANO NO

EXA 7445

[0372-10

DArE

23 March 1961

RE: "135 - CHECK "T Ord

MARIE JR INDEXING

NO ELEANG REQUIRED

EXPIRE CAN BE AJDO

QUALAED MO. DESE QU

Dattached for Headquarters only as of possible Interest, 18 a tape made

DY AVOMANCE Of the SpEeChes of COMIE AGUerO, ArtUrO DUBRA, Arie: COLLAZO

and other speakers during a publie debate on l6 March 1961. The tape was made

from a Radio lacional broadcast which vas receded by the playiag of the

"International" and & studio speech by Enrique RODRIVUEZ Avlere, Coumnist

deputy. This speech was not taped. The speeches are engraved as both sides

of the tepe.

Attachment:

tape

22 Merch. 1961

Idstribution:

3 • Egtra w/att

I - WAVE wo att

2 - Files wo att

NED/rich

PORN

017 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONA

REPLACES FORMS

51-ZB, S.FRА

AAD. 91.87

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

CS A jag

SECRET

201-229130

PAGE NEL

CONTANED

2/508

---

