# 104-10186-10049

## Page 1

104-10186-10049

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

RMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba Demirica Repub'se

Rifael Fransce TAl'ERAS Rosario

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

REPORT NO. CS CI 316/01174-65

DATE DISTR. 16 March 1965

NO. PAGES: 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE:

1964

Washington, D. C.

1964

FIELD REPORT NO

THUS 15 UNEVALUATED INPORNATISES

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OS CONTENT IS VENTATIVE.

A former Cuban IS cilicer who served with the Cuban I eligerer Service

U-"il Apri! 1964.

Headguar'ers Commert:

Mr foliowing report is one of a sertes containing. persorality

a:formates provided by the source ard includes supplemeria! •

irformation from the records of this Agency.

1: s requested that the addressers take no action on aay. the

cividals mentioned ir the persorally reports without first

cheddarg with this Agenes.

1. Spurse idertified a phoograph of Rafael Frunaise: TAVERAS

Rosario is bring a Dozzuch: ard a member of der pro-@isi:o

Agapacion Polisa Calerce de Jurio (APCS).

As a member of the APCI, TAVERAS was orig illy sert

In Cuba in secure a scholarship in the Union of Soviet Sexilist

Rrpublic: (USSR). (However, source judges that when (9is

shelorship did rot materialize, TAVERAS was pet irin to guerrila

wa: fire training pregram insiead,, Source belicis thai TiVERAS

was still in Cuba at the time he left.

STATE

RET CINCLAN PENT

(Nate: Field distribution Indicated by " $")

Heedqua:ters Commert

1. Rafael Frar isco (FI:") TAVERAS Rosario, who was berr in

about 1938, was eirited secretary of publicity and pripagardi on

the APCJ Central Executive Committe in December ).962.

held tha: title when he let! the Dominican Republic or 13 September

190c for Mexico or a spanish ship, en route to the serie:

shandored forses one

NO FORM DiSSEM

MATESO I TENS

1 .

INFORMATION REPORIEINFORMATION REPORT

MI CNO F

LINE MADRILCLI

TH C RR OS

144H. 2 DR R CLICG 1H21 LASH

MICERVE

INH: PO A 1

NOWA C 7/L, WE 1 (0), C14, RID 1, WH 4(1!

_DIR - :8622

#: Projeri(AMMUG/1)

2501-216. 0124-88

LIA19086

S/gD

---

