# 104-10422-10407

## Page 1

104-10422-10407

AAY

1196

90/P 4-2351

911

MENGRANDUM ICE. MI. J. Lee Rankia

Goneral Counsel

Fresident's Commission on the

Assassination of Fresident Kernedy

SUBJECT

Marina OS WALD's Notebooks

Attached herewith is information from this Agency's filea on the

entries in Marina OSWALD's notebook, a copy of which was received

from the Federal Bureau of Irvestigation under leir cammunication

dated 13 April 190%, Coples of this attachment have been forwarded

to the Federal Bureau of laventigation.

Richard Helm

Deputy Director for Flans

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution:

Orig- & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDP

1 - CI/RAG

V3 - SR/CI/Research

SR/CI/ResearchiAWBrasko,cl

BOL RIGHTTO COLà OT

Document Number

685-297

for FOlA Review on

SUN 1976

5 May 1964

16

•SECRET

GROUP 1

Exchuded irom aularati:

downgrading ang

---

## Page 2

13-00000

See Sanitized File

For sterilo copy of this document.

101002409477 Rah0o0 05 196980

ducT 02. 2007 75c92 Gold90

199

12 156 2

90S15I J/1927

or transl

096H158 46 3032207

33023

26270

Panded dui

1331

TCh FORD

V925: 39A0752

Crestose

44 tro13

M2602947

10la4-5301

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SEcittl

DD/P.9: 2.351.

8. - MAY 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR!

Mx.. J. Lee Rankin

General Counsel

President's Commission on the

Assassination of President Kennedy

SUBJECT

¡ Marina OSWALD's Notebook

Attached herewith is information from thia Agency's files on the

entrien in Marina OSWALD's notebook, a copy of which was received

from the Foderal Bureau of Investigation under their communication

datod 13 Apxil 1964. Copies of thin attachment have been forwarded

to the Fedoral Bureau of Investigation.

Ichard Helm

Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution:

Orig. & 2 - Addressee

. DDP

1 • CI/ RAG

3 • SR/CI/Research

SR/CI/Research:AWBrasko;cl

• 5 May 1964

SECRET

GROUP Y

Excluded from automatic

doan racing and

dactassiticatioa

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

The following is a compilation of traces

on what appear to be Soviet names, addresses

and telephone numbers from an address book

identified by Marina OSWALD as belonging to

her. The left columnlists the notations, trans

lated from the original Russian, as they appear

in the address book. To the right of each no-

tation is a comment on the notation made by

Marina OSWALD to the FBI and following this

are this Agency's trace results and clarifying

notes:

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excladed from artemalle

doneyraclay and

desiastlicallan

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SLURES

Antonina Vladimirovna

Kobel 'nitskaya

Vladimirakly Prospekt

House 10, Apt. 7 (Galibina Al. VI.

Prospckt Stalina 122

Bookkeeping office K-&09-15

Ploshchad Chernyshevs sogo

House 12, Apto 3 Asto Vado

Vanda Kuznetsova

Ind Leningrad M-159

Kurskaya VI. 5, Apt. 38

G-2-04-81,

extension 359

Further Identified by Marina OSMLD

as Antonina Vladimirovna KOBEL NITS.

KAXA, aka Astonina Vladinirorna GOLIa

BINA, Prospect 110, Apto 7a Stalla

Lone #122 - office (bookkeeping),

telephone K&0915.

(Or Chernichev

sky Sg. 112, Apt. 3. Ala addrcesea

1n Leningrad. Marina net Antonine

at a rest home near leningrad.

Traces: Lo None on KOBEL'NIISKAYA.

?.. The 1960 Brief Telephone

Directory for Orgonizatione In Lenin

grad lists the number K8-0915 for the

Stomatologicheskly Pol1kl1ntk (Stoma-

tological Polyclinic) at Moskovskly

Prospelt 122.

NOTE: Moskovckly Prospekt was for

merly Prospekt Stallo.

3. The 1961 Leningrad Tele-

phone Directory lists only one Godd

bina or possible variation thereof.

This 18 a K. de GOLYBINA Jisted fOr

the number AO-0036, extension 2-35

at the address Tverskaya Ulitea 28.

NOTE: See entry for Vladimir MAKAROV®

4. Both Vladimirckly PrOs-

pekt 10 and Ploshchad Chernyshevekogo

12 appear to be plausible Leningrad

addresses.

According to Marina OSWALD, Vanda

10 a nurse in Leningrad Whom Marina

met at the rest home near Leningrado

Traces, le None on KUZNIISOVA..

2. The 1957 Brief Guide to

Leningrad Iists the number G2-0482

for the S.M. KIROV Military-Medical

Academy at the address Akademika

Lebedeva Ulitsa 6.

3. The "M 159" appearo to

be a Leningrad postal zone designa.

tiona Kurakaya Ulitea 5 appeare to

be a plausible leningrad address.

• 2-

GROCO 1

Encloded lem aslonalle

Paragradios dad

Cecls:6l0c.l9g

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Volodya A-00036

MAKAROV extension 115

Ulitsa Iverskaya

House 20, Apto 26

Marina OSWALD further Identified

this Individual as Vladimir (nick

name Volodya) MAKAROV whom she met

at a social function in Leningrad.

Traces: 1. The 1961 Leningrad

Telephone Directory 1ists a V. Pe

MAKAROV with the telephone number

A0-0036, extension 1-15 at the

address Tverskaya VIItsa 20.

2. One V. P. MAKAROV,

a biophysicist specializing In

radiation Lajury to blood celle,

was reported to be attached to

berian Department of the Academy

of Sciences of the USSR In Krasno

yarsk as of July 1959.

3. One Vladimir MAKAROV,

an engineer born on 26 August 1925

In Babaevo, USSR; attended an elec

tronics conterence In Paris In

February 1963.

4o An American visiting

Yalta, USSR, In August 1959 met

an Aleksandr (INU) who was there

with his wife and younger daughter®

Aleksandr told the source of thie

Information that he was a physiciat

working In a laboratory In Lenin

grad doing work on testing the

strength of materials for rockets.

Aleksandr gave Source the telephone

number A-00036, extension 126 tc

call when Source came to Leningrad.

Source learned from Aleksandr'&

daughter that the family lived on

Tverskaya Ulitsa (number was not

obtained by Source) Source later

contacted Aleksandr In Leningrad

on the above number and was wined

and dined and escorted to the thea

ter by Aleksandr. However, Aleks

sandr told Source that he could

not Invite her to his hone because

It would be too dangerous because

of his classified work.

•3.

SECRET

6AJW 1

Enclaced from salonalle

Gone radiot and

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Sergey

245-93

5.

The addresses Tverskaya

Viltea 16, 18 and 20 appear to con

prise a large apartment complex with

a common telephone switchboard with

the number A0-0036.

The 1961 Leningrad

Telephone Directory lists one I. Go

PRUSSAKOVA at the address Iverskaya

Ulita 18, telephone number A0-0036,

extension 2-19.

NOTE:

No relationship has been es

tablished between Marina (nee PRU

SAKOVA) OSWALD and I..Go PRUSSAKOVA

(spelled with a double S). I..G.

PRUSSAKOVA, which 15 one of only

three possible variations of the

name PRUSAKOV listed among the more

than 70,000 names In the 1961 Leni-

grad Telephone Directory, 1e men

tioned here only because of the rem

Lationship of the, name to the

address and telephone number.

Identified further by Marina OSKALD

only as Sergey (LNU), a planiet and

one of her friends.

Traces: The number 2-45-93 appears

to be a Minsk telephone number.

The

1963 Minsk Telephone Directory 1iste

the number 2-45-93 for the Kombinat

Mintorgmontazh Mezhoblastnoy Opytion

Konstruktorskoye Byuro (The BSSR

Ministry of Trade-Inter-Oblast Cou

bine for Design and Construction)

located at Internatsional naya

Ultea 36, Minsk.

NOTE: This combine appeara to be

engaged. In the design and construc

t102 of store fronts, show cases,

show windows and other types of con

struction in the field of merchan-

dising®

SEGRET

GROUP Y

Escluded fren astomall. I

downrading and

Esclastillealier

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

Ivanov. Robert Ale

Vitea Podbel'skogo

House 7, Apte 2

Irina Volkova

Igorskly Prospelt 131, Apto 9

Identified further by Marina OSHALD

as Robert Aleksandrovich IVANOV, &

resident of Leningrad. Marina ado

vised that she "belleves" she met

this person also at the rest home

near leningred and that although

a law school graduate, IVANOV,

worked as a chauffeur.

Traces: 1o

None on IVANOV.

2. The address should

probably be Podbel'skogo Pereulok

rather than litsa.

30

Among the IVANOVs in

the 1961 Ieningrad Directory 1s

one A.K• IVANOV who 1s listed with

the telephone number AO-0036, ex

tension 1-60 and the address

Iver

skaya Ulitsa 18.

NOTE: The Initial A corresponds:

to the patronymic of Robert Alek

sandrovich IVANOV, SO A.Re IVANOV

could conceivably be the father

of Robert. See entry for MAKAROV

for significance of telephone nun

ber A0-0036.

Marina OSWALD further Identified

Irina VOLKOVA as having been at

the rest home near Leningrad.

Marina also advised that Lev

PRIZENISEV goV. had "an anorous

Interest In VOLKOVA who, unfor

tunately was already married."

Traces! lo None on VOlKOVA.

2. Ilgovskly Prospekt

131 appears to be a plausible

Leningrad address.

-5.

SEGNET

GROUP 1

Encoocd Iren Tulonelle

downgrading and

declaraticatan

---

## Page 9

13-00000

Printseva Gedya

Ulitsa Grazhdanskaya

House 7?, Apt. 49

D-2-09-10, Printseva

Prizentsev Lev

Kondrat "yevskly

House 7, Apt.

63 or

House 63, Apt. 7.

SECRET

Further Identified by Marina OSWALD

as Galina (Galya) PRINISEVA, & rEBI.

dent of Leningrad with whom she

shared a room at the rest home near

Leningrade

Traces, I. None on PRINISEVA.

The address Grazhday.

skaya Ulitsa 7 appears to be a

rather large apartment building In

Leningrad.

3. Of two PRINISEVs (or

variations thereof) listed In the

1961 Leningrad Telephone Directory,

one A.A. PRINISEV 16 listed for the

number A0-0036, extension 17, at

the address Tverskaya Ulitsa 18.

NOTE: See entry for Vladimir MAn

KAROV concerning telephone number

A0-00-36.

According to Marina OSWALD, she

met PRIZPNISEV, Who 18 a resident

of leningrad, at the rest home

near Leningrad. Marine advised

that PRIZENISEV had "an amorous

Interest in trina VOLKOVA Q.V.

who, unfortunately was already

married."

Traces: 1.. None on PRIZENISEV.

?. Robert E. WEBSTER,

who renounced his U.S. citizenship

In 1959 when he defected to the

USSR and who returned to the U.S.

as an allep under the soviet quota

1n May 1962, claimed to have re-

sided In a three-room apartment at

Kondrat'yevskly Prospekt 63, Apt.

18, Leningrad, during his stay 10

the UssRo

3. Both Kondrat yevskiy

7 and Kondrat'yevskiy 63 appear to

be plausible Leniograd addresses.

- 6.

SECRET

Ghal? 1

Erclaied tren sulamatic

6699a98, 930

6:580-19191183

---

## Page 10

13-00000

Rachitskaya Nonna

Moyka 10, Apt. 39.

According to Marina OSkAlD, she

and Nonna RACHITSKAYA had attended

middle school together. After

middle school RACHIUSKAYA had

lived somewhere In the Caucasus®

At still a later date Marina met

RACHITSKAYA at a drug store In.

Leningrad.

Traces: I. None on RACHuSKAT

Robert Robertovich

Grigor yev-Nayman

Moyka 25, Apto 3.

School, 215

be a plausible leningrad address.

Further Identified by Marina OS.

• WALD as Robert Robertovich

GRIGOR ' YEV-NAYMAN, Moyka 25, Apto

3, School 215, Leningrad. Ac

cording to Marina, he was the

principal in a middle school In

whose cafeteria she had worked

while she was attending pharmacy

school.

Traces: I. None on GRIGOR'YEY-

NAYMAN®

Tarusin Oleg Pavl.

Kirovskaya Obl. Shaba

skly 8/5

2. Moyka 25 appears to

be a plausible Leningrad address.

Identifled further by Marina OS-

KAID as OLeg PaVlOViCh VARUSINe

NOTE: Apparently TARUSIN was &

former boy friend of Marina OSWALD

and the son of Yekaterina Nikitich®

Da (s1c) TARUSINA. Marina received

congratulations on the birth of her

first child (February 1962) In a

telegram from Leningrad signed (Inu)

TARUSTNA.

Traces: I. None on TARUSIN OF

TARUSINA•

2. There 18 & Shabalin-

skiy Rayon In Kirovskaya Oblast!

In the RSFSR. Ukazinskly 8/s

probably indicates a Sel'sovet

(VIllage Soviet) named Ukazinekly.

•7.

SECRET

GhOUr 1

Exclusad from solomalle

cannuramad and

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECHET

Tadeush Tamara

N. Go Minsk

ULIta Belonorskaya

174 "A", Apt. 2

Further Identified by Marina OSWALD

who worked with her In the same

hospital. According to Marina,

Tamara worked as a gynecologist.

NOTE: According to Marina OSWALD's

statements, the only hospital In

which she had worked was In Minske

Traces: 1. None on TADEUSI.

2. Both Minsk and Lenin

grad have an Ulitsa Belomorskaya

and It appears that the address

would be plausible for either city.

The small go before Minsk In the

address in all probability 18 an

abbreviation of the Russian word

gorod which means town or city.

SECRET

GiPI

---

