# 104-10438-10128

## Page 1

104-10438-10128

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

12-62

ROUTING

CRIG: JOHN M. WETITEN

• UNIT : C/WH 3

EXT

: 5513

DATE : 4 DECEMBER 1963

O INDEX

SECRET

LENO INDEX

*ILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-287248 destig

TO

4 DEC 63

17412

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF:

/WH 4

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

the following action

DEFERRED EN

ROUTINE

INFO :

-TO

DCI, D/DCI= DDP, C/CI, C/CI/SI, VR-

Signed:

- Hartme

PRIORIL

INFO

R. 0. 72 - last C1/REEZE DIR

86658

BIRAT GPFLOOR

Note:

If dostruction, cite

REF

14319*

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriate.

1. PIS SLUG ALL IRAFFIC ON PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION ONLY AS ABOVE.

2. IO TRACES I RIDDERSIRALE, OR ANDERSSON AND LAMBKE. STILL TRACING ABERG

AND ALERECHT.

3. IN POLIONING UP THIS CASE, URGE

SO HANDLE AS TO AVOID LEMPTING

SUBJS TO REPEAT WHAT IS ALMOST CERTAINLY A FAERICATION OR A MILLION TO ONE

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1976

COINCIDENCE: AT SAME TIME, GIVING OF VALID INFORNATION MUST NOT BE DISCOURAGED.

SUGGEST YOU INFORM ALERECHT THAT HIS FIRSI INFORMATION, IF ACTUALLY TRUE,

IS OF GRAVE IMPORTANCE AND COULD SERIOUSLY COMPLICATE LIVES OF HIMSELF,

ABERG, AND RIDDERSTRALE AND INVOLVE ALI, OF THEM IN MOST SEARCHLNG INVESTIGATION

1

AND INTERBOGATION AND CROSS QUESIIONING BY SWEDISE AND ODYOKE AUTHORITIES. ASK HIM.

TO CHECK BACK AND SEE IF HE AND ABERG NOY MISTAKEN ABOUT DATES OR IP ABURG NON ME

GIVEN TO MILD SOCIAL PREVARICATION. WHAT DOES

THINK OF ASKING OFFICIAL

2C1-289248

HELP FROM LIAISON? PLS DO NOI DO SO WITHOUT CHECKING HERE.

IMPDET CL

¾. FYI ONLY, THERE IS NO EVIDENCE OSWALD BACKED BX ANY FORBIGN POWER,

BUT SUC

CONNECTION STILL NOT ABSOLUVELY AND FINALLY RULED OUT. FURTHER, WE HAVE BEEN

370:22

08

PLAGUND BY SHARM OF FABRICATORS WORLD-WIDE ON THIS CASE

BUT IN FINAL ANALYSIS

SORTING OUI LIES FROM GOOD 1IPS IS UP TO

CASE OFTICERS, AND STOC SEEMS TO BE DOING

COORDINATING

OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

AUTHENTICATING

SECRET

OFFICER

CTED

downgrading and

declassification

D-REBRO-DUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

Document Number 2924-693

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ORIG :

UNIT

EXT :

DATE :

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

.CONF :.

• INFO :

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

D FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET

2

3

12-62 .

ROUTING

6

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

86668

WELL ON THIS CASE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: * (IN 71757)

Reported interview with Adolf Jay Albrecht.

MarTy board Can

NASA

idle

Cicadang Dollargee

Art As

sy authority. of

RICHARD HOLMS

DDE

RELEASING. OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

doungrading and

declassification

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTIONY

SECRET

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE (

PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

