# 104-10116-10157

## Page 1

104-10116-10157

SEGIET

MENCRANDUM FOR: C/E/BC/C

SUBJECT

Rolo ef Vercoiver, Canala, in

DIoinformation se tho Carrleon

Invectigella"

: 22

REFERENCE

(0208/6515, 32 Angust 1968.

eubjoet: KEYWAY/Garrleois Jarcetigation

si Recoody Asarostoati:a: Donald P.

NORTO:, file 100-3ü0-17.

1. Reference lirardod a Cl RuA r. emorasdam abour NeRTOri

lo Chlel of Statlos,

Since ihat dais ElI soports have esoma ebet

Mer TO% la e con mal, AldO.S. Als lurce bledical recorde bata se-

reaied that he men discharged in July libo as a resal of paychlatrie

problesna: barlag triod en too os mose occaciana lo comalt suicido.

NCI. TON'* lles aboa! ClA Ars: eppeared la the Vascouyes San on 5

Auguet 196T.

2.. The atlached IBI setor, PBE 87295, 10 April 1967, concerno

arotber example of disis correlion errearing la Vascouver, teralvior the

Sug, and related to tho Garriton caso.' I check of Ageney files chowed

LISE DIE BODE DO TECOSE OL TIEVES LACTENS, MaTO GRAGAS..

01 d

11s8 Dorothy WHITTY. The ir eresce oi tbe unldentliled caller to

GRACLAS may have boon a Burble dos Menuel GARGIA Gonzalcs, whor

Tarrisca hes sared as one of ths asnassice of Prénident Kennedy but

vino eracasa to bare disamentad co to le con-erlateai.: There are no

AgenCy treces (Including JATATL) iD GARCiA.

.3.. Ibe Conmusia: prisu Lenorally and Soviet bous medla epocillenlls

LeVa given GErIlon'o atasy erthuelastle coverago aná euppert, De=-us3

11 la chriously ta thel laterest to malutain thal Pecelden Kennedy was

9/8

SECRET

NETVAN TO CIAM

-Be sund Use Onlyl

Alar Renraduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECHEY

escoobinated not by pro-Communist Lee Harvey Oswald bal rather se

o resules a right ming conspiracy involvios Cal.

The suriceing of tro such allegations to or throngh the Vorcerer

Sen deems to place a atrolo on colacidence. 2 Do you have say laformation y

about the ne of the san la other ouriocinga of MHORDEd propagande "

¡falast CIA? le there say inforation about contacle botueen employees ol

Rhe Sus and representalives of Soviet Intelligence? ll no such Intermation

lo ai hand, 1i would be apprectated l these questions mere forwarded to

the Station. Allbough Headquasters has no rocord of Trever LUTENs.

I8 lo concelvable that Stallon flles sasy also hold informalion ubout bir.

DeROvan E. Prait

Attachmenta

Distribation

Orig @ l - Adressee

1- A/DGI (MS. Cosdwin)

1 - Genersl Coansel

18 - O!ilce of Sccusity fAtta; Mr. Feul Gayaor)

' 1 - CI/FIA ChrOn

1 = DP lot file (Very Vancoaver flle)

1- CI/S&A (Miss Selita)

SCRET

---

