# 104-10072-10088

## Page 1

104-10072-10088

DISPATCH

CLASSINCATION

SECRET/K

BECKET

• PROTESSING ACON

MARKED FOR BEDEXU

Chief,

SB Divaton

Chief rEUR Divisions

ND IDLING LOURED

OBEY CALFIED DESK

CAN FIDGE INDEKING:

Chiet of Stations

London

REDTOP /AFKICK

KGB/SCD Connected. Soviet Rimma Semenovna, ZMITRUK nee SHIRAKOVA

FYI

REF *

OELAY 16115, 15 August 1966

N. JAGUAR has nov passed the following information on

as Headquarterol ts avare, figured in the Warren

Report as the Soviet Intourist guide provided Lee Harvey

OSWALD on his arr val, in Moscow 1n October 1959%

A Reference

transmitted SAGUAR) Information dated August 1966.

JAGUAR states that SHIRAKOVA arrived in the United

Kingdom on 2 September 1967 with a party of Soviet teachers

end lert on 30 September 1967-r

Her patronymic and correct /

age vere discovered in Spite of SHIRAKOVA telling the [JAGUAR

source (unnamed) that she was born in 1939. JAGUAR/stated

that SHIRAKOVA & birthdate was given on arrival here as 18

January 19378

According to JAGUAR'S source, who is friendly with

Subject

SHIRAKOVA spenta considerable amount of time. with

him while in the Uk. During this time JAGUAR source took

SHIRAKOVA to the Chamber of Horras at Madame Tussauds':

Exhibition, where of course there is a waxwork of Lee OSWALD

According to [JAGUARY/source, SHIRAKOVA instantly recognized

OSWALD andatold JAGUAR'S/source that she had known OSWALD:

Thus Clearing, up any doubts: in JAGUAR's mind about the

identification.

Attachment: 2H/W

inotos

Distribution:

26

- C/SB w/att.

3 - C/EUR w/o/att.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ATT

CROSS REFERENCE TO

ES COPY

ATCH SYMBOL

OBLA] 49414

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/R

68

901 - 803914

DẠIE

SECRET

19 June 1968

HOS FLE ELSABER

(747500

MICROFIGME

EPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY

AFTER

USE

---

## Page 2

14.00000

CONTI OR

DISPATCHI

SECRET KIL

CHS

ОБщу 49414

LAGUAR states that

er source te emphatic that at

no time has any sorton intell tence approach or airect

questioning taken Place, el ther by SHIRAKOVA Of any other

Russian. @AGUARgadds, that

it does: Look, however 1f the

SCD are bullding up quite a dossier on the man.

5. GAGUAR passed fondon/station, For VOrTRHeadquarters,

a copy oathe photograph attached to SHIRAKOVA C 1967 applica-

tion for duk visa. JAGUAR also provided a second photograph

obtained from their source of SHIRAKOVA standing with a young

me Intourist guide interpreter

called walentIne"

Valentine

was apparently being trained by SHIRAKOVA during sourcels 1960

visit to the Sovlet Union thus.

do1 15 1960), and Valentine

joined the coach at the Soviet Polish border (see

sub-para. 2

of para. 2 of Reference).

Valentine claimed to JAGUAR'S source

that 1t washto/tret exper-ence.ascagude ancha though his

English was quite good,

valentine appeared to be rather nervous.

AdrIan O. BAGHURST

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

RESTROY AFTER USE

---

