104-10249-10283}

Snes

ing name trete resulta 20 thie (odivideal. (Not te NSA)

HX-17
Ud July 1963

MEMCAANDUM FOK: Fodeval barcas of Inventigatise

SUBJECT: Barnon Fergsson MITCHELL,
Wiliam Hamijtce MARTIN,
Beplonage ~ A.

1, Reference be made te the following communtcatives, wbich
costal intcrmatioan pertinent to the see information repeated ba euce
eeding paragraphs

@. Memorendaom of 16 Suse 1761 from thie Agency eédrasced
te the Metisaal Becertiy Agaaey, a copy of which was turwerded to pour
Bevosz, captioned an above,

i. Burese lector of 22 Juse 196), addreoved te the Directar,
Natlenel Becurity Agency, with copy ts thio Agency, capiisned: Euracn
Fergusws MI CRELL, Xilliag Hamilton MARTIN; MISCELLANEOUS «
INFORMATION CUNCEAKING .

c. Cepartmenst of lmontgratiog Name Check Request Form,
Bile A-2, dated £6 June 1962 adérosecd to your Bureau with copy te
thie Agency, ta the nama ci Justo SIESHA, Bora IZ Julp 19146, siexicn,
D. Fa, vhs quiored ths United States at New Celeane, Lowictana, ca
AS Juse 196) with dootination addreos uf Mesican Lmbassy, Washington,
BoC. Uioe sent information addresseo}

4. Vasiess eartice Deparizcout of Iinmig ration Name Chach
Requests os Juste GIXBKA coveriag hin pravieus tripa to tue country.
(Ret to BIEAD

@. Cur memorandam of 24 Decembar 1960, addreased to
yeur Buzoen, eur rolesense CSCI-2/16%, 210 with enctosere, Subjects
BLERRA, Jasto; Visa- isezican, asd caztier comununications foreard=

Atnidivie ot



{
4
4
t

reread

€. Forther tequirtes in Xexico by our efticiele there revealed

that Micolas DAMASCUS bed been ordered to leove Mexico in Cctober

9 oloty because of the expiration cf bis tourlet card, ebich bad been
once extecced. xexican Records fail to show thet be returned to Nealco,
ellowieg bie entry inte the Urated States at Brownovtile, Teas, trom
Matamorse, Tarnaaiipas on 24 Cetoder 1968, Uper arrival in “exico on
22 Juse 1560, be indicated thas tho purpose of hie vicit wan to alterd the
wedding cf bia pioter, Anastaste, tdentified in preceding paragraph, -
bewever, ao of 21 Jeso 1961, there «56 s2 racora of Anastasio
DAMASCUS aha DAMASCUY fc cilicial slaxiean #iles, and there. was

Be yor eo bdeatification cf the individual she was alleged to have been
scheduled to marry. Fron the same source It was Isarnod that fcr the
period 22 Juae through | September 1360, the ooly acdrese tiated in
official indices for Nicolas DAIAASCLS te c/o Justo SIERRA, Reicrma
95-407, tesco City, which ie the low affice maintatsed by Juste SIERRA
Casssus, farmer Coonselor of the Maxicen Eanbossy in Washington, D.C.
God who to further ideciliied i. the documents cited mm paragraph |. c.
theeagh bh. above. DAMASCUS repurtediy used SILARA to attempt to
obtals an cutesston cf Ric tourist permit, although the dotaile of bie con-
tects with and hnowlsdge of SISRRA bimoelf are Rot haown at this time,
Moither hos 42 bean posetote aa ef thie dats to verify t!.s reported cen~
tact between Hicelas DAMASCUS and Subjects at the iistel New Yorker,
Bo reported By Me. Thoman DONLUN, Inveatigatica efforts abroad by
this Agescy aze continuing, howevor, aad any furthor icformation
develozed will ba forwarded a soon ee avaiinble.

9. Ia Light of the escape route used by the twa NEA dafectore,
trarettting Mexico aed prasanably Cuba enroete to he US54, your
pariicalar ottontion is invited to the information cacestaing the coutacté |
asd views cf Josie SIZ REA Cacasus furnished in the reporte cited in
paragraph I. e., fa, and g. adove. it io noted Justo SILARA Casases

be identical with the sener Dea Justo SILARA, First Secrotary at tho
Eebsosy cf Mexice, mentioned im Buresa Reporte cited ia paragraph By
above as a contact vi Goris A. RAZANISEV, Firet Secretary of the
Seviet Embassy ia Bachington from 1752-54. Mt 16 durther noted thst
Boris KAZARTSEV, aiter returning t sicecow ia 1934 and aesacing

the poet of First Secretary ia the Latin Amedcen Divieson of the USSR
Ministry of Foreign Atlairs, wae next assigned from 195% to 1957 as
Firet Secrotary ane subsequently Counselor of the Esvict Embacay io |
Mamico City, aad that ac of 1968 he was assigned to the Soviet Embassy *
fo Havana, Cuba, is the positian 3f Counselor, departing Havana for
MMestce, in company of his wife and daughter, on 30 Jone 1761, and

them proceeding te Canada oa 2 July 1764.

j
1
i
i
H
{
i
i
1



f. Teletyped keformatics Depart irom this rgency, dated
@ Aprit 1959, Report No. .1DC5-3/639, 447, Sadjest:.: Contacts Between
Bidel CASTRO Rue aed wasare CAADLNAS .”

@- Intelligeace Ropert cf this agency dated 7 eptember 1956,
Repart No. CB-102629, Subject: ” Marmst Indoctrination of the Partide
‘Popular .- :

bh, Bureau Report dated 57 Jenc.195¢, prepared at K ashingtoa,
D.C. by Spectal Agent Boyd -D, Adsit, captioned: Soviet Caitivation of
Latin American LAptomats - Internal Secartty ~- R’ and Berwan letter of
2h Augact 1954, addressed to thie sgeacy, forwaraisg as Lactvoure
Washington Field ULiice Report ef lo August 1954, prepared by Special
Agent William C. Cregar ce the come subject, Kareau sile References
305-32336, (Nos to KSA)

2. Since the wetting of our memorandum ef 14 June 1968) (cf,
para k.a. above), the icllowiag supplemantary Lescemation has been
developed conterning Nicolas Gesrges DAMASCUS che DAMASK:
whe io a ceatect end client of Juote 2IKHAA Cesases, ecentioned tn the
comnrunications releresced ix paregrapae |. c. thriagh & abave.

& Mieoles Gesrges DAMASCUS reportedly ts cificially
Usted ix Sgypi ender the sanne of Nicoias George LAMASCOU, bora
40 d4arch 1951 at Aloxancria, the eon of Geusge DAMASCOU and
Augelihe DAMASCOU wee ZAVGURAS, He is o Creek catiosal and
side Greek cttiganship, from 1947 through 1437, he resided at
2 Street {a Alesandria.
thet local avallatla recurds imibcate thet.ee cf Atay
2989," Kicolae DAMASCCU resided 2: & Ulrtley Ptece, Elissbeik Dey,
Spdecy, Avstretia, and that he tseted bis occupatics 39: thes. of ‘Clerk,
Gur teld vecords indscate thet as of d-27 1959, the iaited States Con
Salate in Sydney bad seme ixterest ix him, and & is suggested that the
fadices of the Lepartment of State may contate fertber isfer=etion coa-
cerning thie fadivideal,

b. Anastasic (or Azastasia) George DAMASCUS aha
DAMASCCU, eteter of Nicctas DAMASCUS, abowa, wae bora ware
lace of birth net indicated but preaumabiy Egypt. was idectified
havisg filed epplusation Ger a United
States Vise at London, Zegland in July 1956, Ustusg her vcewpation as
that of ¢aterteiner. 111s suggested thet the Visa Files of the Dopart-
ment of State may centaic adaitienal isfcrnatica ve inis indtvidael.

ESI peepee coc



4. Tho vecords of this Agency indicate that Boris A. KAZANTSEV
fe @ known Soviet Intclligesce Ufflear, moat probably representing H
Soviet State Secarity (KCB). It is requested that ony further infarmatice
which may be reflected in the tedicos of your Burcau, of thoes of tufore
mation addresses, rellecting upon tho relatienchin of Kteolas Geurges
DAMASCUS ha DAMASCOU. and Bis alater Anastasia Gorges DAMASCUS
abe DAMASCCOU with Justo SIZRRA Cacasus, on the latter's cootacts
with represcatatives or agcnte-of the CASTAG govarniment-in Cuba, oF ~
on BLLARA'o continved coctacts with KARANTSLYV op other evspect
Beviet oflictals of agatts in thie county cr elecwtkore bs torwarted to
this Agoncy as galchly a6 possibte, A request alosg the same Lincs has
alzcady boon forwarded to ose representatives ic bexico City, and you
with be kept advised of any further information which may be developed
ja this regard,

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECICR (PLANS):

WILLIAG K, HARVEY

2 cet National Bocurity Ageney

DD/P/FI/D/APotocki:mem

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - addressee H
2 = CS Copy’ 100-6-124/3 eee

pens ; chee 2 = OS/SRS : : om paadciee . :

{ : 2 - C1/OPs : : |
ao. . Bey 201-282337 : : Sierra near oar trceed ee
Ui + 261-282338
q Based on:

F 2013-24592, SIERRA :

| ALEX 2793 (ON 37468), 12Jul 61 ~ Efe
MEXI 8266 (IN 28014), 21 Jun 61 seer eee
DIR 49505 (OUT 79316), 7 Jul 61

ee Sigil ‘ ine bab
