104-10533-10012

"DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division
Chiefa of Stations, Eevens

ww. —.. Temuctgalpa i: aus
FROM aia
; Chief of Station, Kaxico City August 1958
7 wax —— Operational ear eonce se oi
Ep mento cow esate
Cubsn Exile Activities (26 of July Hovenent) A MO ero anes eayHD,
. cere as” ae Huey me OC AOC
ix ae
A. Wrxt-2039
: Be HLAA~3229 .
j CG. WXI-2108
i D. MXI-2106
E, MRXI-2108

1. On 29 July 1952, the LISTAT operation eet forth in reference A,
yaregraph 3, wes established. The target 1s Pararo 163, residence of
GustavopARCOS y Bermes, leader of the 26th of July Movement in Hexieo.
‘The resulta of this operation to date, 5 August, have been highly
successful, providing the folloving information.

2. Pereonalitics:

A. ‘Tue 26th of July Movenent tn Mexico haa « small “operating
* under the leadership of Gustavo ARCS y Bergnes and composed
Of the following Cubsns:

|
|
i
i
j

fo (" Rector“GETRICELAYA, left for Tegucigalpa 2 August 1958
CA vane (\ Rafael Silvio‘FENA Peres ("El Corde") (redio operetor)—-/
Helis JY Orlando. VRRTURA Reyes 2 fi oe
pet od cL FERIANDEZ Torro a ‘
pan Pa jy” Vase CARBONELL
aoa Nemeah i
en

PRA SS
‘Terese (“Tete”) CASUSO Morin
‘“Vigirite” (redio operator)

B. In addition to the above group, the following Cubsns and
bon-Cubans fare involved in Cuban (26 of July Movement) revolutionary
agtivities in Mexico: oy ~—

x
Alonso “ATUGARAY, Cuban from Fonduras (staying at Hotel Arizona)
Antonio del"CONDE, Hexican ams dealer

Julio (lou) :

PICARD (fou)

Albdertd-BATO Girowd, Sosntard

Heli CALVO, Dominican .

SereiaVARONA, Cuban (staying at Hotel Anzures)

Kanus}.CAMIN, Mex!can_nevenan

Gustave RAMOS, Cuban, Bad

Eatlio AROS .

> 5

y
ve. Another group of persons in Minmi aod New York ie yorking
closely with ARCS and the 26th of July Moveent in Mexico:

+ Ricardo LORIE (Luts PEREZ")(Miemt) Tel: 21-2267
Oscar (inu) (Miani) - Believed to bea pilot
Marie GARCIA (Misnt) Tel: WI-5-520%

Villien (lou), (iew York)
"EL Gallo,” (Rew York)
‘BEBO or BEDO (Miext)

Commmications:

As B,Alos:

A an mt remem anegrhetn tenon en mpfr neer tam te mee



DISPATCH |

SUCIET

one opersted. by Rafer] Silvio FEIA Perez, the other by
Tvirgirita (ele).” These two rics are heard fo
Mieal by the rebel station there. The rebels ere
having rouble synchsonizing their tvo stations in
Mexico, that of “Virsirite” being in a lower frequency
than PENA;8. “Virgirita” complained that PENA wae not
calling hin at night. Oo & August 1955 Luis PEREZ
(see para B) requested that an encoded message be

sent to “Alex” via one of the radios. (“Alex” is
Delieved to be Fidel AleJantro CASTRO Puz.) PEKA to
@ealing with Ing. Quéllerm)/ZERIANDEZ Mendoz of Roque
(sic) Internationa}, a radio supply house, in omer to

Get an cntena for his ratio. ‘The vedio installations — |
are designated by the tern “Indio,” 1.e., “Indio Apache,”
"Indio Custe,” Indio Verdes”

Mail:

4, Most ma{l sent to the 26th of July “operating group! \
\ ta sent to Manuel WWHAO, 710 Tlalpan, Mexico, D. Fes)
| HACHADO 16 the owner of Editorial MAZRAD?, located at

7
that eldress. ARCOS requested Lute Fm72 in Miemt = /
to send all money for the Movement to this eaddre:
This eddress 12 being covered by the LID operation.

‘Telephone:

The telephone fe sued proniscuourly by nemters of the
th of July Movement. On occasions, open code ant
encoded weenages are passed by phone, On & August:

fan encoded (number coda) sranage wa panned by phone
from Hiaal to Mextco for further panning by radio to
“Alex” (probably Fidel Alejandro CASTHO Kuz). On

5 Auguat 1958, ARCO told Sergio VARTA to use “guarded
Janguage” on tha phono.

b. Operations:

On 2 August 1958, Gustavo ANCOS called Rizarto LORIE,
telephone FM-~1-2247, in Hiami. LORIE ansvered to name

of “Lute FERRZ." ARGOS asked vhetber “Oscer” vas theres
TORIE dno. ARCOG said that he had received word from
“friends far avay” (probably Cura) end that the friends
would give a definite answer very soon. A‘COS vanted the

* “yauffeur" (probebly pilot) (Oscar) to come that day.’

4. regard to equiznent ARCOS said that they bave the things
most difficult to get: tha “inpermeables” for protection-@
not at hand but available and they would soon have them.
They Lave hed the “cther” for some time and have bought
the “shock absorbers” and are Just veiting for the right tine
to bring thea. :

TORIE seid that “oscar” was not in tow but that he wuld try
to find him or ecmeone else. AFCOS said be bad received vord
from the "president of the corporation” (probably CASTRO) that
be would be able to guarantee within a few bours or 2 or 3 éayw



wise ee i
dl.

—

(NOLEN CAN BF IUDGID
BY QuaiH ED a DUSK One

cron aoa

 eeoaceaT
. os

i that they (ANCOS and frienda) wold be ahte to make the trip end not
: suffer t:¢ risfortuie tet “Oscar avd “siesnqua” (-nentbly refers to
trip of Pedro TIKET T'ricts on 30 Mave! 19g wnen p lene vas bumed
i after lending in Cuba) suffered when viey (the president,
ete.) sould .
cold thavmake tie trip dircet, vite the mnrestee thet re could
get out all right. Orees ust therefore coe to Ine ect the Tene”
: probobly plane) ANCKG rela, and recreviition tt. 1: wold protably
take two or three dnyn, becnuse it ve ast complete.

Ley vont. GF ti
» then the “shock absorbers” weal] not be necessary.

LORIE eaid that he would try to locate “Osenr", but that licy fin
Hient} ere in the sane meition as APOC md teat “Usear" fs workin
on that nov. LORIE wid try to olve t 2 provle: ty finding sonone
: elae. ARCS replied tint “Grear" vould te the bert Fen to cone, since
he knows the "car", Itieardo ales out) that they (in Hine) have what
ARCOS vas expecting to receive. (Possibly shock stecrbers).

LORIE seys that “Oscar ins already been coing, but to the tother placc!,
the place of the ‘Little trother.'" (protably area wrere Haul CASTHO 4
located), UCRIE said that they were waitirg for on the"other side"
end on "this side” too, LORIE repeated that he vould try to salve the

' roblen. : eras om
; 2 ‘ tk ONE Ee Pot
Ree In @ call fron ARCOG to Sra. Marin-GARCIA, in iMort 5-204) nb teri -~ 2

her things are ready execpt the ahock ebsarbers, Se raya that ce has been
fin touch vith “Alejandro” (probably Fidel AleJaniro CAST20 Ruz) and he
would notify ronetine ufter the next Li rours Af iz could rake the same
trip ox "Fouchet", mde without the ss:e difficulties concerning the -
veliicle. (Yrobebly planc). Ile is waiting for the cuarantce that the
vehicle cowld cet in and o:t safely. APCS explatond that “Csear" was
the best ran, but he (AvO°S) wantet to ace ber Influence and put:
precoure to cet either “Ccear" and the other person cmald cons, 50

much the better, beenune trey would have vark to.do preparing the
vericle. Gus mentioned the Good neva in tue paver t.a% a heavy=

armored vertele hed fallen inte the hows of their peste, and that
their control of aie “lever cones" voald rake it porsible for then

to make the trips Gus sald that all the “presiden:” reed is personnel
to operate the material. (Rest of convernation unintellicible).

5. Finance:

On 30 July 1958, about ready to lenre for the tank, Manuel MACHADO
eeked ARCS If he nemted nny money. (a & Auguol, AS told Late PUMEZ
fa Moni that he should rend ang moneys far the Bh at July Horenent to
Monvel HACTADO. It fe Uelieved Lint Mansel MACHATO's eccout 19 used to
fund the 26th of July reverent in Hexico. On 4 Ange? ALONG told PRE,
that the finsncial situation vas poor and requested PREZ to send some
money 1f possible. :

O10 ENE eLetter matic it abner nett go
eeasenonrensucune

’



DISPATCH a

a
4

| Peuistona Sse omer

6. Travel:

A. On 30 July an unknown Cuban told Orlando VETIUPA Reyes
("EL Chaparro”) that be was leaving for Cuba sonetize before 3
August 1958 and needed sone money, The unknown person ves told to
pick up $50 for the trip at ARTOS'a epartment on 31 July 1958.

B. On 30 July 1953, Melba de MIRET, wife of Pedro MIRET
Prieto, told AROS that she received a letter from__7
‘Vbo had arrived “there.” This person wants ARCS “eidre:
he can write to him. Melt telle AICO: that he can write to
‘this unknown pereon at 86-09 Northero Bullding, Jacksoa Helhts,
Loog Toland. ‘This 1s now the eddrese of Raquel Terez de MIFET, vatch
was formeriy 401) SOth Street, Jackson eights, Long Island.
Pedro MIFET Frieto gave the latter addres es bis forvarding address
on his trip to the States last April. There ie ponaibility that
Pedro MIRBTPrieto has left Cubs and ie now in Hew York.

Ce On 2 August, Manvel (Fernandez Torro) seid he vas lenving
for the United States on 3 August. On 4 August Silvio PENA
Perez said FEFXANDEZ was expected to vetumn on 5 or 6 Auguste
‘The actual destination of PRIWANDSZ te not known.

C. On 2 Argust 1958 Hector GBIRICELAYA (cee para 1) left
Mexico for Tesucicalpa, Honduras, by TACA. (Airlists/LIFEAT).
Ee planned to leave for San Pedro Sule.on 3 August 1958.
GEIRICELATA Flanned to call the wife of Silvio FIXIA won

arrival in Tegucigaipe.

E. On 3 August Helis CALVO, Doninicen (see para 2) left
Hexico for Costa Rica, vhere she excpected to ald the fanily
of Julio Cesar MAHTINEZ, Dominican, who was recently exiled
to Penama fre Coste Rica, CALYAO's expenses vere paid by ARCOS,
i. @., 26 of July Movement.

6. Materiel:
Axns_ and Amnmition

On 31 July 1953 one Julio (1nu) told ARGOS that be had @ fair
emount of 60's end 60's that he needs. ARCOS insisted on
knowning the price because if there vere nore than one
hundred be should be able to get them at a discount.

(Julio may be have been referring to mortars--6-cm. and 60-an.)

H
!

Recorders:

Se

On 2 August 1958 Ing. Guillermo EERNANDEZ Mendoza of Roque
International (redio eupplies) told Silvio PEXA that «
recorder vould be shipped frou Oklaboua to Himsi on the Gth
end would arrive in Ronduras about 15 August.

see aon


DISPATCH

16 "

an gente Foie :
ree .

NO wate: oD
es {

J. Relations with the Mexican Gavorment ‘

On 1 August 295! in regard to the cane of Serzto VAIOMA, vho
vas arrested by doberacion, AAO madn the following coments to
Terese CASUNO. AROS said he bet thowht of PAVON (fu) (Poastbly

Manvel PAVGH Rahaine, who 1s ean of four armbers of the Figration
Commission of the Chather of Senatora, (seo alno {I4-A-22T1, 19
June 1757) as the person who ean defend Cutann vie have entered.
Mexico aa touriete but who are te facto exten; PAYOH could
seck exile status for them. Tete eaid that asylum lind teen
requested for VENTURA and others and that it had been denied.

Only those Who cone out of the %,xicnn Enbassy in Cuba are granted
Gayl, she enid; any requests mint be of a political nature and

must be dealt with by "El Coronel.” The Coronel could make w general
("politieal-type") request for Cubans vho cannot afford 1,000 pesos

to recain in Mexico as v-sitentes" for Hectenda to subsidize .

Cubans vho stay as “visitantes,* but this would mean a gigentic
* subsidy. Gustavo said that fortunately many vhose papra are aot
in order are leaving.

8. Propaganda

In addition to the operational aspect of the rebel radios
‘also used to receive news reports from the
Bierra Meestra. Thase reports frou the scene, are then passed to
Teresa “Tete” CASUGO vbo brings then to Manuel CAMIN, Mexican
nevspaperman, vbo has them published in Kxeelsior and its evening
edition, Ultimas Noticias.

9 Meeting Place
‘The most popular meethg and eating place of the 26 of July

“operating group" is "El Malecon,” located ca Venustieno Carranza
#9, Hexioo, D. Fe i ie

Vielived Go

c.

sestiauntas:
