iost0103-10111

a) a

d) At 1031 hours on 1-October 1963, a man trying to speak
Russian called the Soviet Embassy Military Attache Office

and said he was at their Embassy "last Saturday" (28 September)
and talked with the Consul.. He is told to call the number for
the Consulate and to write it down. 6/

e) . At 1035 hours on 1 October 1963, a man (whose voice was
described by the: translator as the same person as above) called
the Soviet Embassy Consulate. He said this is LEE OSWALD, I was
at your place last Saturday and spoke with a.Consul who said they
would senda telegram to Washington, so I want to find out if you
have anything. He did not remember the name of the Consul. The
Soviet suggested it was KOSTIKOV, then told the caller that a
telegram had gone out but nothing had:been received. 7/


Transcript dated 27 September 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Military
Attache Office, Mexico City, JOiRr-CIAcMexiran Govemnmens telephone
tap operation, Microfilm reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File:
50-6-75/4,

Transcript dated 27 September 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Consulate,
Mexico City, Uoiiit_CIA Mexican—Govermmert telephone tap operation,
microfilm reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

Same as 2/ ak

Transcript dated 27 September 1963 of Soviet Embassy Chancery,
Mexico City, Goint CIA Mexican-Govermefit telephone tap operation,
Microfilm reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

Transcript dated 28 September 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Consulate,
Mexico City, d@int—“CIA Mexican—Governmert telephone tap operation,
Microfilm reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

Transcript dated 1 October 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Military
Attache Office, Mexico City, Goiif“ClA MexicanGovernmens telephone
tap operation, Microfilm reel number 178, Job 71-812, Box 1, File:
50-6-75/4.

Transcript dated 1 October 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Consulate,

Mexico City, J@7Mt°CIA-Mexican“Gayermmef telephone tap operation,
Microfilm reel number 178, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.


-. 2, There were five telephone calls to or from the Soviet
Embassy in Mexico City which (after 22 November 1963) were linked to
OSWALD for the period 27 September 1963 to 1 October 1963:

a) Shortly after 1600 hours on 27 September 1963 the Soviet
_Embassy, Mexico City, received a call. from Sylvia DURAN, a Mexican
employee in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico City. DURAN had a North-
american in her office and wanted to know who he talked with at
the Soviet Embassy. She had sent him there for a Soviet visa
after which the Cubans would issue one to him. DURAN was told to
leave a number for someone to return the call. . She gave the
Soviets the number of the Cuban Consulate: 3/ 7

One concludes from this conversation that. this Northamerican,
later identified by DURAN as OSWALD, went. first. to the Cuban
Embassy. on 27 September, then to the Soviet Embassy, and
returned to. the Cuban Embassy when DURAN made the first -call.)

b) At 1626 hours on 27 September a Soviet male in the Soviet
Embassy, Mexico City, returned the call to DURAN at the Cuban
Embassy and asked if the Northamerican had been there and was told
that he was still there (at the Cuban Embassy). The Soviet told
DURAN that the Northamerican had shown them letters with their
Consulate in Washington requesting a visa for himself and his
wife. but the process takes.4 to 5 months. and they (the Soviet
Embassy in Mexico) have no authorization to issue.a visa to him
and furthermore they (the Soviet Embassy in Mexico) do not know
anything about him and cannot give him a letter of recommendation
to go to Cuba (enroute to the USSR). DURAN says that in that case
‘he :camnot -be issued a visa to Cuba either (until he receives
permission to go on.to the USSR). 4/

¢) Shortly before 1200 hours on 28 September. 1963 the Soviet
Embassy Consulate, Mexico City, received a call from Sylvia

DURAN who said she had there in "their" Consulate, the Northamerican
who had been to the Soviet Embassy. The Northamerican talks with
the Soviet in English and Russian saying he was: "just now" at your
Embassy and they "took his address" but he didn't know it then and
went back to the Cuban Embassy to get it. The Soviet tells him to
-come back to the Soviet Embassy. The Northamerican agrées to do so
right away. S/

(One concludes from this conversation that OSWALD went to the Soviet
Embassy before 1200 hours on 28 September, then to the Cuban Embassy
‘where the call was made, then returned to the Soviet Embassy some
time after 1200 hours the same day. )


27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Military Attache Office 15-69-87

Item 408, page 1.

An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls Soviet Military
Attache Office at 1033 hours and asks what is-necessary to get a
visa. to go to Odessa. He is told to call 15-60-55 and ask for the
.Consul. Caller asks for the address. The soviet inside provides
the caller with the address. :



| 27 septiembre 63.-

SVHASADA RUSA.= 15-69-87.

26-L26-8128. * :
aan es

ODESA.= HD que. llame al 156055,~y que pida al consul.=- 415. HF

w- UD.se-la proporciona.-- 424,



+) SS

27 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Consulate 15-60-55
EA

Item.74, page 2

An-unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet“ Eibassy
Consulate at 1037 hours’ and asks for the Consul. He is told that
the Consul is not there. The unidentified man asked what is needed
to get. visas to go to Odessa. He is told to call back at 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

é seer :
At 1235 hours a man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) from inside the
‘ Soviet Embassy-Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72. (Colonial
America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the
telephone directory). and speaks with a. mari named. SAN ROMAN.
ALATRISTE “Says, that he is-in the Russian Embassy and-they--need to
know: what ‘day. the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa, that the
iéts will also need copies of’ the passenger manifest....

(Oneconcludes that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN are shipping representatives.
for the boat "KALONIA", and needed routine visa information. First

a call was made to the first listing for the Soviet Embassy in the
Mexican telephone directory (which turned out to be the Military Attache).
They got-the phone number for the Consulate and the address. After

: making a call to the Consulate and learning that it would not be open
" until 1130: hours, ALATRISTE went to the address to get the needed
‘ information.)

Item 395, pages 7 -and-8

Just after 1600 hours, the Soviet Consulate received a call from the
~ Cuban Consulate (Sylvia DURAN) who said she had there a U.S. citizen
who had requested a transit visa to Cuba because he is going to the
USSR. DURAN. wants to know. with whom hé spoke at the Soviet. Embassy

because “she sent..him over to them telling him that if the Soviets
approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything
more, advising the (Department of) Immigration in Cuba. She wants
to.know with whom he spoke because he says that he doesn't know
either with what person and who told him that certainly there would
be no problem. The Soviet asks DURAN:to wait a minute. After a
short wait DURAN explains the same thing.to another Soviet. This
Soviet: tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her name and
someone will.return the call. DURAN gives her name and telephone
number 11-28-47 then says as a personal thing, she has moved and

has not advised them of a change of address so.will-not receive their
Bulletin and can give it to them now. The. Soviet asks her to call’
KOUKHARENKO in order. to change that address and asks for the name

: of-the (Cuban). Cultural Attache. --DURAN says it -is-Teresa PROENZA

i ot whose: number-is'14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her. :


MAJADA RUSA.= 15-60-55.- fy
27 septiembre 63.- ;
L34-M8.-T128-

0900-2114 hrs.—

ng te See MLB =
ra oe nat
Entrada. - 1037, hrs.- HF pregunta pocel Cénsul. HD que no
| estdé, HF que necesita sacar unas visas para ir a Odesa. HD quo
llame a las once Y media, HF que. hasta que horas. H) le’ cuelga.

=~ 78--
—

al Salida al 45-37-72.- 1235 hrs.- (Colénial America) --
ALATBISTE dice a SAN ROMAN que estan en la Embajada Rusa y
-que necesitan saber en que fecha va a llegar a Odesa el barco.
SANROMAN le pide espere un momento. 1h3-- 153-= SANROMAN que

Ree

_unicamente ‘van a estar el domingo 20 de octubre de 08:00 a 20}00_

horas. ALATRISTE que los sefiores del consulado necesitan una
copia fotostatica de los boletos del pasaje en el KALONIA y
conto ellos ya no tienen tiempo, que entonces a ver si les hacen
favor de: mandarselos ellos. SANIROMAN. que si, que solo le pres-
taran los boletos unos 15 minutos para que manden sacar las ...

Ween ce a nn AYR aE cement er ienme near Reem Hemmer enti



4
4

09

;
ENQAJADA RUSA.- 15-60-55.- aes
27 septiembre 63.~ -. a

L34-M8.-T128-
2114 brs.-

; MF del ‘Gonsulado de Cuba, dice que esta allf ..

ve iSeab3hen, 8 5
-t
+.'un ciudadado Americano. que fue.a solicitar una visa para Cu
en Transito porque va para la URSS y entonces quiere saber cor:
quien ha2ia hablado porque ella lo mandé con ellos de la Emba;
da rusa diciendole que si ellos le hacian o aceptaban la visa
que entonces ellos los cubanos tambien se la daban sin mas -
tramites nadamas avisando a Emigracién en Cuba, y quiere sabez
con. ‘quien hablé porque el dice que no sabe tampoco con que -

Persona y.que le dijeron que. si que no tenia problema. HD le

“espere un momento, 404-~ 410.- MF es SILVIA DURAN dei
Consulado de Cuba y explica lo mismo a otro HD. Este le dice
que le ‘deje su telefono y su nombre para que despues le llamen.
SILVIA se lo proporciona asi como el teleforio 11-28- 47.— ¥ que
aprévechh como cosa personal de que ella se cambio de domicili:

y,no ha podido avisar para gue le envien el boletin y que ahor:

se la puede dar. ID le pide que llame a KOUKHARENKO para que 1:

- de .su ‘cambio, y pide le de el nombre de la Consejero o Agregad:

Cultual, SILVIA dice que se llama TERESA PROENZA y le llaman
al 14-13-26. HD que pracias.-- 435-<


io

27 September. 1963, Soviet Embassy Chancery 15-61-55

Item 295, page 3

At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet. Embassy Chancery
to the Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia. DURAN. He asks
DURAN if the american has been there.
DURAN: Yes, he is still here.
ia SOVIET: According to the letters that.he showed them from the (Soviet)

Consulate in Washington, he wants to go to the USSR to stay
a long time with his wife who is Russian, but also the
answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.
That accordingly these transactions take 4 or S months but
without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request
and even then, they could not: issue the visa here. (in Mexico
City) without. asking Washington. Yet. accordingly: this man
(the Anerican) , ~+ showed him a letter in which ‘he (the
American) is a.member of an organization in favor of Cuba
and said that the Cubans could not give him the visa without
the Russian visa and now the. Soviet doesn't know what to do .
with him,- because he’ has to-wait for the answer from
Washington.

DURAN: ..with them also, because the problem with him (the American)
is that he doesn't know anyone in Cuba and in that case it
is very difficult to give him a visa, because he was
thinking of processing his visa,- because he knew it was
going to take a long time waiting for the Russian visa in
Cuba, and.then go on to the USSR.

SOVIET: ..that the thing is that if his (the American) wife were

“now in Washington (and) going to receive the visa right now
or the permission from the USSR to return to her country, (if)
she is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having
this visa, she can communicate to whatever place, this
permission, for example, here or. in any other’ place (he) can
receive it, but right now they do not: have’ them.

DURAN: ..certainly and neither can (the Cubans) give him a letter
because they do not. know if the visa will be approved.

SOVIET: " They can only give the visa according to instructions.

DURAN: Then that is what she will put on his application.

SOVIET:. Neither can I give him any letter of recommendation because

: I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

DURAN: It was no bother, thank you very much.



SUBJECT: OSWALD. contacts with Cuban and. Soviet Enbassies, Mexico
City, Mexico, during the period 27 September 1963 to 1 October
1963 : :

1. ODESSA Calls.

2. OSWALD Calls.

3. Original Transcripts.
FINDINGS:

1. Calls concerning travel to ODESSA, Three.calls were made in
the Spanish language on 27 September 1963 concerning travel to Odessa.
The first call was made about 1040 hours to the Soviet Military Attache
Office.. An unidentified man outside asks the Soviet Military Attache
what is needed to get a visa to go to Odessa. The Soviet tells him to
call 15-60-55 and ask for the consul. The man outside asks for the
address: which the Soviet provides. 1/ The second call was made about
1037 hours to the Consulate of the Soviet Embassy (15-60-55). An unidentified
man asks for the consul and is told that he is not. there. The unidentified
man asks what is needed to get a visa to go to Odessa and is told to call
back at 1130 hours. 2/ The third call occurred at 1235 hours. A man
named ALATRISTE (nota Soviet) inside the Soviet Consulate (15-60-55) called
out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial America, probably a pension or hotel but
not listed. in the telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN ~
ROMAN. ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Embassy and they need to
know what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa, that the Soviets
will also need copiés of the passenger manifest. (The conversation suggests
that ALATRISTE and. SAN ROMAN were shipping representatives of the boat
"KALONIA'). 2/° There is nothing in either of the calls to suggest any
connection with OSWALD. There is evidence that the calls were not related
to OSWALD: a) in-OSWALDS's contacts with Cuban dnd Soviet officials ‘he made
no effort to communicate in Spanish though he appeared to have difficulty
with both English and Russian, thus one concludes that he could not speak
Spanish, .All three calls about Odessa were in fluent Spanish. b) Marina
OSWALD in her letter to the Soviet Embassy, Washington, D.C. (reproduced in
the Warren Commission Report)asked’ specifically to go to Lenningrad and
made no mention of Odessa.


ae

1 October 1963 Soviet Embassy Military Attache Office 15-69-87

Item 45, page 1.

At‘1031 ours aman calls the Soviet Military Attache Office
speaking in broken Russian.
MAN OUTSIDE: ..."Hello. I was at your place last Saturday
and I talked to your Consul. They said they'd
* send a telegram to Washington and I wanted to ask
you if ‘there is anything new?"
SOVIET: I'd like to ask you to’ call another phone. number.
MAN OUTSIDE: Please. :
SOVIET: Please write it down; 15-60-55 and ask for a Consul.
_MAN OUTSIDE: Thank you.

* SOVIET: Please.



at of

o> 15-69-67, 6
‘octubre 63.6
L26-NA6-T129— |
2031-2002 bra.

fo de

int - 10. y LUGO ean --
& rada,= 1 32 erased HP y 1M en -
D Ruso 2
i . 2

» RUSSIAN, EMBASSY. 15-69-87
c ‘1, October 63
2 “ Pa6=m26-1129.

In at 1031. MO talks to MI, in broken Russians
” Hellow. I wes at your place last Saturday and I talked to

our consul... They | said thet they'd send a ‘telegram to Wa-
shington, and I wented to ask you if there is anything ne
: I'd like to ask you to call another phone number.

Please. i :

MIs : Please write it downs 15-60-55 and ask ‘for a consul.

MO; Thank you. : :

MIs: " Please.


1 October _1963 Soviet Embassy Consulate 15-55
: Item 151, page 2 :

At 1035 hours a Man described by the translator as the same
person who had called a day or so ago and spoken in broken

; Russian called the Soviet Embassy Consulate and spoke with the
ui Soviet guard on duty: .

MAN OUTSIDE: Hello, this LEE OSWALD ‘speaking. I was at your

place last Saturday and spoke to a Consul, and

they said that they'd send a telegram to Washington,
& so I wanted to find out if you have anything new? But
: I don't remember the name of that Consul.

SOVIET:. KOSTIKOV.. He is dark?

MAN OUTSIDE: Yes. My name is OSWALD..

3 SOVIET: Just a minute I'll find out. They. say that they haven't
: received anything yet.

- MAN OUTSIDE: Have they done anything?

SOVIET: Yes, they say that a request has been sent out but nothing.
has been received as yet.

MAN OUTSIDE: And what... (SOVIET hangs up).

Poet


‘

LEEs

jG bo- eo

TDAMAL A UME Byte ser

i/o, octubre b3e~

" L3h-N8-T32.-

921-1520. hrs. *

wptrada.- HP y WD en Ruso.-- 168--

In’at x68 (7) MO / the ‘seme person who a a day or so
ago, and spoke in broken Russian/ speaks to OBYEDEOY +

‘Hello, this LEE OSWALD (phon) speaking. I was at your place

Yast: Saturday and spoke to 8 consul, and they said that
they'd send a telegram to Washimgton, so I wanted to find
out’ if you have anything new? But I don't remember the name
of that consul.

KOSTIKOV. He is dark /nair or skin?/.

Yes. My neme is OSWALD.

Just. a minute I'll find out. They say that they havenkt
received enything yet.
Have they done anything?
Yes, they say thet a ieee has been sent out, but nothing
has been received as yot.

And what...? /O8Y hengs up/.

so

SS transcribed)

Acconci eee


AJADA RUSAL= 15-61-55.-
eptiombre 63.-
4) L35-M22-7138~

907

hrs.-
ars

Salida al 11-28-47.-1626 hrs.-.HD pregunta a SILVIA que
“sivha ido alli ese americano. SILVIA que si, que alli.estd.
HD que segtin las cartas que les mostré def .consulado en -
Washington el quiere ir a la URSS para estar alld mucho tiempo
con su esposa que es rusa, pero todavia no se ha recibido la
contestacién de Washington respecto a su problema, pcro eso
segin’los trdmites ocupan unos cuatro o cinco meses pero sin
tener, ese permiso de la URSS deben de preguntar y mas bien no
se le puede de@pachar aquf el visado sin preguntarle a Vashington
pero segiin este sefior le mostré una carta en que es un miembro
de una organizacién en favor de Cuba y. ha dicho que ellos los
Cubanos no pueden darle el visado sin el visado ruso y ahora
HD' no sabe que hacer con el, porque deben de esperar la contes-
tacién de Washington. SILVIA que ellos tambien, porque el pro-
blema deel, es que el no conoce a nadio,en Cuba y ontonces al
es asi es muy dificil que le den la visa, porque el pensaba
tramitar su visa, porque como el ya sabia que se iba a tardar
mucho en esperar el visado rugo en Cuba y ya de alid irse a
a URSS..HD que la cosa es que si su esposa est ahorita on
Washington va a recibir ahorita el visado'o el permiso de la
URSS para regresar a la patria, ella va a recibir su visado on
Washington pero teniendo ese visado ella podrian comunicarle
a ‘cualquier lugar ese permiso por ejemplo aqui o en cualquier
otra parte lo puede recibir, pero ahorita no las tienen. SILVIA
que claro y que tampoce se le puede dar una carta porque no
saben si su visa ser4 aprovada. HD que ellos solo. daran el visa-
do -segin-las indicaciones. SILVIA que eines eso pendrd en su

mole; tia. SILVIA’ que. no hay euddado y que muchas gracias.


28 September 1963, Soviet Embassy Consulate 15-60-55

Item 208,-page 2

Shortly before 1200 hours the Soviet. Embassy Consulate receives

a call ‘from Sylvia DURAN of the Cuban Consulate. She says that

here in the Consulate there is an American that was just at the

Soviet. Embassy. A Soviet says to wait a minute.

DURAN: while waiting speaks to someone in background. .."Do you
speak Russian? Yes. ..why don't you talk to him?....I
don't Imow..!'then back to Spanish, DURAN says they
installed a telephone for APARICIO and take down the
number as 14-12-99.,..."about this-U.S. citizen, he is
going to: talk with you

American: _...speaking in broken Russian..."I was in your Embassy
and spoke to your Consul... just a minute"

“SOVIET: ..asks the Américan in English what does he want?

American: In Russian..''Please speak Russian."

SOVIET: What else do you want?

American: I was just now at. your Embassy and they took my address.

SOVIET: I know that. -

American: ...translator commerit: speaks terrible, hatdly recognizable

Russian...I did not know it then. I went to the Cuban
Embassy to ask them for my address, because they have it.
SOVIET: Why don't you come again and leave your address with us.
is not far from the Cuban Embassy.
American: Well, I'll be there right away.


HSA MSA. 1500-55 6=

pttembre 63.-

L34-NS.~T129—

0857-2035 “hrs.-

Entrada.- MF del Consulado de Cuba, quien dico que al:
en su consulado costa un xmexke norteamoricano que estuvo al:
en 1a Dubajada Rusa, MD que espere un momento. 213-- MF os -
SILVIA DURAN y habla INGLES con alguna persona fuera-- y co:
te en espafiol que le pusieron telefono a APARICIO y lo apunta

es ol l4-12-99--- 230-~ SILVIA le dice sobre ei ciudadadane
hable

norteamericano y que les va a hablar.-- 24

: RUSO. IID le habla en INGL?
-- 1151 hrs.-

/Please see the Spenish transcription/. WO while waiting
speaks in English to someone in the background: He said weit
(RoE. 28 Sep 65, p >)

+eDo you speak Russien? Yes. Way don't you telk to him?.,
I don't know.. 0 tekes the phono and seys in broken F

Ise

I was in your Embassy end spoke to your consul, Just a mt:
MI takes the phone and aske MO in English What doos ine war

Os /in Russian/ Please speek Russian,

Is What elee do you want?

F Os Iwas just now at your Embessy and they took my sddress
t I know thet. .
MOs /speaks terrible, hardly recognizable Russian/ I did not

know it then, I went to the Cuben Embassy to ack them eer

my sddress, because they have it.. 7
MIs Why don't you come egain and lesve your sddress with va, 2)
not fer from the Cubsn Enbassy.”

+—~ Well, I'11 be there right sway, ;
a : \

