# 104-10120-10039

## Page 1

104-10120-10039

SECRET

23500

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

•FiLE -H

TRAVEL ORDER

Amend 1

ALLOTMENT ACCOUNT SYMBO

-÷ t

NAME

OFFICE PHONE

16 5 7-52-06

He Homied Hunt

2729

3332

TITLE

OFFICIAL STATION

G5 25

$11,800

Opseations Officer

Monterideo, Uniray

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

Agency Regulations.

MINERARY

I to Hashineton, D.G. for 5 days consultations thence to Sarasstly

13-3

Florida for annual leave;

thence to lashington, D.f. for ToY tratning; theree

Io Montevides, Uru uay.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

22

PURPOSE

Do Not Reproduce

13557-55-065

P.C.S.

SPECIAL PROVISIONS INCILIDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

Pur ose ol Aneninert: Guange in itinerary. Other proviaions to rentin

the sare.

AUTHORIZED PER DIEM

Fer cien payable b il upon subjcot'a arrival in castinuton, D.t. for cuty

COORDINATIONS: KEGUIRE I DI BEEFECTED ME ORIGINATING OFFICE)

MAL OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

ADVANCE OF FUNOS IS AUTHORIZED.

THEATER CLEARANCE (F OBTAINABLE)

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

Jon arrival station

$

CERTIFICATION BY PROCESSING FINEDO

Certified a True Copy. Signed

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

necessary. Amended as indicated.

ALLOWANCE FOR PRIVATE GUINE AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

(A)

CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER

(B)

CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEONS TO THE GOVERNMENT

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOIPYOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE

AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT

TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE.

IS AUTHORIZED.

RETART ORIZE POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOÓDS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

СЕНІВУТ ЬОСЕЗІИС ВИТИСН

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE. A LA!

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITAN ONE YEAR OF EMPE

TEMPORARY DUTY.

NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPO)L - 1

c/et

C/*P/OPS

PORM NO. 540

8 OCT 55

GIRDS JONGLYSEX

REPLACES FORM 33-27

OCT 51 WHICH MAY BE

USED.

Lrr650052204 B96#Cн

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

3R

27 June 1956

(28-48)

SECRET

---

