rod-10140-10108

Addendum to Journal- Office of Legislative Counsel
Wednesday - 2 November 1977

13, (Unclassified - RJK) LIAISON Received a call from Helen
Hudson, staff of Representative Lucien Nedzi (D., Mich.), who noted that
James Pyrros, also of Mr, Nedzi's staff, had asked her to call concerning
the long-standing interest of the Agency in gaining access to the Library of
Congress SCORPIO Data System. She outlined a procedure for transmitting
a formal application to Subcommittee of the Federal Library Committee.

I told her I appreciated the information,

14, (Confidential - DTC) LIAISON Was visited by Professor G. Robert
Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, Ho mmittee on Assassination
here at Headquarters. We discussed certain general topics relating to the
Committee investigation and Mr. Blakey met with Sidney Stembridge, DD/OS,
for a short time to discuss security matters. The remainder of Mr. Blakey's
visit is covered-in a. Memorandum for the Record.

lIalso provided Mr, Blakey with unclassified letters from Robert
Gambino, D/OS, concerning security clearances of members of the Committee
staff.

15, (Unclassified - RJK) LIAISON Called Peg Pokusa, Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence staff, and told her that the constituent inquiry
which she sent to us asking President Carter to seek the release of nine
U.S. military personnel imprisoned in the Soviet Union should be referred
to DOD. Ihad already called Col, Stephen Harrick, DOD Legislative Affairs,
to confirm that he would handle this. He said he would tell Ms. Pokusa
that there was no substance to the reports that these men were being held
in a Soviet prison,

Seog €

he
GEORGE L. CARY
Legislative Counsel

cc:
o/ppcr
Mr.

& inwis)

SA/DO/O

IC Staff
Comptroller
NPAC

