104-10186-10098

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘ous mine eoausing informatica affecting Une Kasicoal Dytonse of uke Vasted gates within tbe meaning of the Lepionage Laws, Tue
TE'ESC Gee Md and 74 ibe Ureaemieica er teewethe Of which tm gay @enner ho a Unauthorised petwe ls prohibited By Ia.

: SECRET
if NO FOREIGN DISSEM

countky Cuba ‘REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00423-65
Sumect. Benito LNU (alias “Saul") : \ ate piste, = 4 February 1965

‘No. paces 2 :

RereRences - CS~311/00115-64
8 July 1964 .

eo 1964 \
a cea Washington, D. C. i
Date aca, January 1965 __FIELD_REPORT.NO.

Teid. i UNEVALUATED UVORMATION, SOURCE GlADWNOS Aat DE/INITIVE “APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 10 TENTATIVE.

source. A former Cuban 1S officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency. :

1, Benito LNU, alias "Saul," is an official in the Direccion
General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence ~
DGI). He carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry of Interior,

2. Benito LNU is a Cuban citizen and was born in approximately
1939, He is five feet eight inches tall, weighs between 150 and
160 pounds, has a medium build, white complexion, curly dark a
brown hair, and light brown eyes. He has thick arched eyebrows,
a smal} nose and mouth, 8 thin face and lips, and even white eo
teeth, i

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on Benito LNU.

5
4
SECRET 3
NO FOREIGN DISSEM 2
1
start Tawar Trawe Tae Trsa. TWXX, Toce
7 CINCLANT  CINCSO # TENS

[ise a arb indented by

[ ——__—]-Jix-2276 + Ex-22p0
|l_____ | 40 PROJECT (AMMUG/'1)

et CSCI-316/00423-B5
o ccomwarma]pevennaa 1

7 ues

