2 PERSON/UTIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE CORY ISSUED/SLOTTED. By AT

=a a
CABLE Sec DISSEM BY ven CL FE trot comes pat =~ Eee

ieee ke tee

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA

SECRET. ISsuine orice 1S Pmowsiret

aes STAFF

‘ACTION UNIT

RFE. FILE. ve, DDD CGC Sis
cfr“ 3 cfen 2

7p)

a

$ € OR ET p4es212 MAY 76 STAFF Gy, ;
a Le
cite 2903 (3ALILES acTING) : va

T 889589 E1ai65 PAGE OL IN 908916
‘ TOR! 0410172 MAY 76 Oe 29003

stot

Tor oypector{ ji
: [4 T3-%s

RYBAT, @LMHBL ANKET

vers yarsr Cd 966466 7

20
Le STATION RECGRDS REFLECT THAT WILLIA

(204+155221) 1S DUTCH FREE LANCE JOURNALIST WHO HAS LONG HISTORY

OF SENSATIONAL JOURNALISM -AND HOMOSEXUAL: ACTLVITY«
ALTHOUGH NOT A COMMUNIST, HE ESPOUSES EXTREMELY
LEFTIST VIEWS ND. FANATICALLY BELIEVES THAT

COMMUNISM OFFEXS BEST FUTURE FOR. INDONESIA. ALLEGEDLY
HIS GOUD ACCESS TG PRUMINENT. INDONESTANS IS DUE

JO PAST INITMATE RELATIONS WITH NUMBER OF

INDONESTANS, [NCLUDING SUKARNO,

HE HAS MAINTAINED A RUNNING BATTLE WITH NATO

SECRETARY GENERAL JOSEF LUNS». KHOM HE

“ACCUSES ‘OF MISLEADING FORMER. DUTCH PRIME MINISTER f

WILLEM DRIES ON POLICY TOWARD THE FORMER Pal DISSEM |
Rea AS

WEST NEW GUINEA, OLTMANS HAS TRAVELED TO THE USSR eis
RECORD copy

AND THE BLUC CN A NUMBER OF OCCASIONS AND HAS
SECRET 5 MAY 1976

vel yd . :

Porn 547.



<T14 MFQ. 2/78

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY. PER

TOTAL COPIES

RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION ‘BY OTHER. THs
ISSUING OFFICE 15 PROHIBITE
i

AQVANCE COPY ISSUEN/SLOITED ny. ar
Ss a wea tune seca dae a tea cea
t La LaeTaEi ai oe THESSEEREL Asie?
N .
aeTion | F
°
ETAL65 PAGE @2-82.- TN 9589T6
TOR'@410172 MAY 76 9903

MAINTAINED. CONTACT WITH A NUMBER OF SOVIET DIPLOMATS

IN THE HAGUE WHO WERE KGE: SUSPECTS,

INVETERATE NAME DROPPER AND CLAIMS

TO KNOWs. AMONG OTHERS? COLUMNIST JACK ANDERSON

AND. HOWARD JONES» FORMER US AMBASSADOR TO

INDONESIA»

2, ABOVE FOR PASSAGE TO (JA

ol
GUAR» IF

0
(sabua} HAS NOT ALREADY REQUESTED TRACES ON

OLTMANS FRUM GynpatHteeR) SUGGEST THAT THEY -

po So. a

3. FILES 73°6"46/3 -X“REF
E2 IMPDET

KI) oe =

201-1552216

SECRET

He IS AN
