roa TOr06A06eg] * : : cCuuel ae

or . {

MEMORANDUM FOR: G/E/BC/G * eo |
: |

SUBJECT : Role ef Vancouver, Caneda, in ?
Disinformation re the Garrison erie, i
Investigation “ + i

REFERENCE COCOW=6315, 22 August 1967, :

subject: KEYWAY/Carzteca Investigation
of Kennedy Assassination: Donald P.
NORTON, file 100-3u0=17, :

L_Reterence forwarded a CI/RGA memorandum sbout- NORTON
‘te Since that date FBI reports bave shown that
NORTON be a con man, aod 0.8, Air Force Medical records have re-
wealed that he was discharged in July 1950 as a result of paychiatric
probleme, having tried on two or more occasions te commit suicide.
NORTON's lies about CIA first appeared in the Vancoaver Sun on 5
Auguet 1967. et

2. The attached FEI report, DBB 77295, 10 April 1967, concerns
enother example of disinformation appearing in Vaacouver, favolving the
{ Sun, and related to the Garrison case. A check of Agency files showed
| that we have mo record of Trevor LAUTENS, Mario GRACIAS, or &
| Mise Dorothy WHITTY. The reference of the unidentified catler to
: GRACIAS may have been & garble for Manuel GARCIA Gonzales, whom
" Garrison hae named as one of the assassins of President Kennedy but
! who appears to have disappeared or to be non-existent. There are no

Agency traces (including JMWAVE) on GARCIA.

i

a

0 3, Lhe Communist pres@ generally and Soviet news media specifies!
=. have given Garrison's story enthusiastic coverage and support, because
i {t is obviously in their Interest to maiatain that President Keonedy was

SECRET



- eG

2

assassinated not by pro-Commanist Les Harvey Oswald but rather a8
@ result of & right-wing conspiracy iavolving CIA.
“@.. The surfacing of two seach alle; ta ov through the Vancoyver

Sun seems to. place a strein on evincidence. Do you have say iaformation
see the use of the Sun tn other eurfacings of MHORDER

_ againat CIA? Is there any information about contacts betwee ampieyees of
the Sua and representatives of Soviet intelligence? If ne such (information
the San oo (t would be appreciated Af these questions were formased ©
the Station. Although Hesdquarters has ne secord of Trever LAUTENS,

1 le conceivable that Station files may also held taformation about bien.

Attachments

Distribution
Orig & 1 - Adressee
@ 1- A/DCI (Mr. Gondwin)
‘ 1 + General Counsel ;
A « Office of Security (Attar Mr. Paul Gaynor) >
1 - CI/R&A Chrono yo ie ceca
1+ DP for file (New ‘Vancouver file)
1- CI/R&A (Miss Smith) :

“GRET

