# 104-10215-10156

## Page 1

104-10215-10156

SECRET

SUBJECT (TYPE WAME IN ROMAN LETTERS - SURMAME (N UPPER CASE)

sman Franciaoo BLANCO

CI/ÓA

2. ALIASES, VARIANI SPELLING, CIC RUMEASE ONCOS

209-332676

Jun Francleco BLANCO

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

#. CITIZENSHIP.

6 Nay 1939- dPInar del-Rio, Ouba

Caban

5. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

6837 9.W 6th Ste

Sland, Florida

6. OCCOPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE

ACTIVITY

13 Army - 031

REDGME CHECK NEE

15846

DATE 2 6 dans 196t

ORIGINATING OFFICER

NAME

OFFICE DESTUNATON

TH/BA/LOS

ROOM,

BUILDING

EXTEASION

00 14

9616

13. TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

O FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

• ADDITIONAL DATA

SOCHECK FOR CURRENT Rodsatement

14.

INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)

I ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

SO ERATIONAL CLEARANC

стні

Reinstateren

LOCATION

,t99

DATES

USA

78/22/62-5/63

8. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADO EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

%. DESCRIPTION

(HEIGHT)

(WEIGHT)

(EVES)

(MAIR)

(RACE)

(OTNER)

10. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN VAME)

-160

Prou

11. OTHER

SERS OF INMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

12. INFORMATION REQUIRED (DEFINE SPECIFICALLY.

NOT FULLY MEET REQUIREMENTS.) TEARS SUCH AS "DEROGATORY" MAY RESULT IN A SEARCH THAT DOES

ATL PRATINT TNPCIOLATION

04. (CT

14093

INSTRUCTIONS: SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

ront 501 m

SEE CSI 10-7

SECRET

201.332676

---

## Page 2

SECRET

TO:

29 June 1964

DATE

FROM:

FIR

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

C.

D.

MITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO

DETERMIME WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

11/D HAS NO PERRIERS INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF INFORMATION ABOUT THE

SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT WILL SE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES

AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

Previous green List request frou JW/opaspt, 27 Aug 62, OD, GI. 128960.

1480

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION

MOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/O THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMANO A CONTINUING. NAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO MOT TIE UP FI/D'S

FACILITIES MITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

102303 cana

TO:

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

OFFICE DESIGMATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

113 63349 49917 740

1: 3

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

CICTOUR:

---

