# 104-10107-10030

## Page 1

104-10107-10030

STAR: 816198

INSPECTOR CAN

-77-19.06

23 August 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR:

VIA:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Director of Central Intelligence

Acting Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

John H. Waller

Inspector General

The Defectors Nosenko and Golitsyn

1. Action Requested:

Approve providing the SSCI with additional material

on above subject per Paragraph 4. belov.

2. Background:

This report concerns the extent of information on

the defectors, Yuriy Nosenko and Anatoly Golitsyn, which the

Agency has made known to the Rockefeller Commission and to the

Senate Church Committee and its oversight successor, the Senate

Select Conmittee on Intelligence.

NOSENKO: The record shows that the material listed

in Attachment A regarding Nosenko was passed to the Rockefeller

Commission in February 1975.

This material held by the

Rockefeller Commission was subsequently made available to the

Church Committee for its investigation. Additional material

gathered by the Rockefeller Commission on Mosenko through inter-

views with former employees, etc. may also have been made avail-

able to the Church Committee but we have no record of it. The

Rockefeller Commission's brief mention of the Mosenko incar-

ceration in its final report is attached as Attachment B.

The material concerning Hosenko which was provided

the Rockefeller Commission included details of his background

in the KGB, his recruitment in 1962 and his role as an agent in

place, his defection in 1954, the nature of his involuntary con-

finement by the Agency during the period 1964-67 and the author-

ity on which the confinement was based. The Rockefeller Commis-

sion was also provided a 15-page

summary, perhaps better termed

an apologia, prepared by the DDO's Soviet Russia Division and

E2 IMPDET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CL BY 055536

---

## Page 2

14-00000

in sari vassas

Reconcisdo

Micront!

CI Staff in 1967. This paper sets forth the doubts. concern-

ing Nosenko's bona fides, the inconsistencies in his debrief-

ings, his increasingly uncooperative attitude, and the indi-

cations of deception during his initial polygraph examina-

It describes how the determination was made that

Nosenko was a dispatched KGB agent with a deception mission,

and how Nosenko was then incarcerated to preclude any con-

ceivable means of communication with the KGB. It was then

believed that intensive interrogation, coupled with a Spartan-

like existence in solitary confinement, would eventually break

Nosenko and bring about a confession as to his true status and

KGB mission. Nosenko withstood the arduous regimen and was

subsequently vindicated.

Other material furnished the Rockefeller Commission

on Nosenko included

a rather short summary prepared by the Of-

fice of Security which touched on Nosenko's ultimate vindica-

tion, rehabilitation and current status as a Paid Consultant.

There is no indication that Soviet defector Golitsyn's original

stimulus to the Nosenko controversy was ever surfaced to either

the Rockefeller Commission or the Senate Select Committee.

Golitsyn has inspired and supported the CI Staff suspicion that

Nosenko was a dispatched KGB agent. A study of the Nosenko

case (which takes issue with the earlier suspicions toward and

treatment of Nosenko prepared by retired annuitant John Hart

in early 1977 called "The Monster Plot" has not been shown to

the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and, of course, was

not finished in time to have been made available to the earlier

Church Committee.

It should be noted that there is a Memorandum for the

Record prepared by CIA's Legislative Counsel, John M. Maury, on

5 August 1969 entitled "Briefing of Key Congressional Contacts

on the Nosenko Case" (see Attachment C). This indicates that

Congressional oversight committees or oversight committee star-

fers, at least, were privy to CIA concerns regarding Nosenko's

bona fides as long ago as 1969. This memorandum includes re-

of Nosenko, justifying it to per-

, with the concern he might be targeted

Tor "exocurie actions the Soviets should discover his miere-

abouts.

Nosenko's own attitude since his abuse by CIA seems

to have been philosophical and forgiving.

He has lodged no

complaints.. Nosenko continues to be fully cooperativa and

2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

siated his feelings to the Office of Security in 1975 to the

effect that he desires no publicity; it would place him in

personal danger and it would certainly discouraga any Soviet

official from defecting for years to come.

GOLITSYN: Information provided the Rockefeller

Commission and the Church Committee on Anatoly Golitsyn, who

defected in 1961, has been minimal. According to Agency re-

cords, it was limited to recounting the documentation require-

ments, including passports in alias, for change of identity

procedures for Golitsyn and his family on three occasions.

His thesis that Soviet defectors could not be trusted and his

role in working with the CI Staff on an exercise to identify

possible Soviet penetrations of CIA are not believed to have

been known to the Rockefeller Commission, the Church Committee

or the present Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.

Neither

John Hart's report on Nosenko, nor Bronson Tweedy's report on

Golitsyn, which analyze these situations, written after the

Church Committee investigations, have been shown to the Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI).

It should also be noted that a staff member of the

current Senate oversight committee (Senate Select Committee on

Intelligence), Mr. Jean Malot Evans, was a DDO, CI Staff

careerist until his retirement in June 1974. It is our under

standing that he is, therefore, personally conversant with much

of the background and developments in the Nosenko and Golitsyn

cases, although we do not know how much he has recorded for

the SSCI's benefit.

EDUARD OUN: The Rockefeller Conmission report, on

page 170, mentioned a case where a defector was physically

abused, though not seriously injured, by an Agency employee.

It added that the employee was subsequently discharged by the

vico de feis case pertains to these was national Eduarso on,

who defected in 1955.n2 The employee was

Estonian origin.

_was returned to Headquarters io face

charoas

After lengthy and acrimonious suitability proceedings,

was discharged from CIA in 1961.

3.

Recent Actions:

At your request, I briefed the Staff Director of the

S561, Pir.

William Miller, on 25 August 1977 in broad outline,

and described the incident of Nosenko's incarceration

rrom 1904-190/, Which he was, of course, already familiar with

also brieted him in cenara.

terms -- without naming specific

officers -- how the carears of certain CIA officers had been

3

S/BR

---

## Page 4

:411

harmed by unsubstantiated suspicions that they were Soviet

KGB agents, based on the theories and reasoning of defector

Golitsyn.

This situation had not been previously known by

Miller or the SSCI (although the SSCI's Cl Staff expert,

Evans, as noted above, had previously worked on the DDO's

CI Staff under James Angleton and thus may have had some

familiarity with this episode in the Agency's history).

I also told Mr. Miller that newsman David Martin

seems to be digging into the Nosenko and Golitsyn cases

and is trying to interview various former CIA employees. I

explained that it is possible, therefore, that there may be

public surfacing of some or all of the story.

I offered more complete briefings to the SSCI,

should it so desire.

4. Recommendation:

I recommend that we be prepared to offer Mr. Miller

additional briefings of the Nosenko case and the Golitsyn

case,

should he request more detail.

rite

Jóhn H. Waller

Attachments - 3

Attachment A

Attachment B

Attachment C

7s/ Stansfield Turner

APPROVED:

Director of Central Intelligence

DISAPPROVED:

Director of Central Intelligence

DATE:

31 AUG 1977

---

## Page 5

tigers on

GEORET

Attachment A:

Titles of documents sent to the Rockefeller Cormission

and to the Department of Justice

1.

TITLE

Memorandum for: The Inspector General

Subject

: The Nosenko Case

Attachment

: Summary of 1967 Document which outlines

the Nosenko Case.

(This 15-page report presents the SR. Division and

CI Staff position that Nosenko was a dispatched

sch and discuse

KGB agent and discusses Nosenko's involuntary

confinement by the Agency for approximately three

years.)

2. Memorandum to Dept. of Justice from OGC Tisting nine

documents requested by the DJ and attached.

(1) Nosenko's request for political asylum dated 4 Feb 1964-

(2) Nosenko's Secrecy Agreement dated 21 April 1959.

(3) Nosenko's contract with CIA as Independent Contractor

or Consultant, dated 21 April 1969 ($16,500 per annum).

(4) Nosenko's contract with CIA dated 1 March 7970

($18,500 per annum).

(5) Receipt for advance of back salary, April 1957-March 1969,

dated 25 Oct. 1972 ($35,000).

(6)

Receipt for full payment of back salary, April 1964-March

1969, dated 16 Nov. 12 (552,052 1n addition to prior :

payment of $35,000).

(7)

Nosenko's Acknowledgement and Release to CIA, dated

12 July 1973.

(8)

M/R of 13 July 1973 concerning 12 July 73 acknowledgment

release.

(9) Nosenko's revised contract dated 9 lay 1974 ($23,750 per

annum).

DATE

1967

30 Jan 1975

---

## Page 6

P*OTA

3.

M/R from John M. Maury, Subject: Briefing of Key

Congressional Contacts on the Nosenko Case.

This briefing paper, for the Senate and Mouse

Appropriations and Armed Services Committees,

reflected the DDO's continued concern re

Nosenko's bona fides. Copy attached as Tab C.)

4. Office of Security memoranda re confinement

instructions for Nosenko,

5. Memorandum for USIB from DDCI Marshall Carter

advising of Nosenko's defection.

6.. Memorandum for McGeorge Bundy from DDO

advising of Nosenko's defection.

7. Memoranda from the Office of Security to

I&NS re Nosenko's alien status:

8. Memorandum from DCI to I&NS recommending

permanent residency status for Nosenko.

9. Asst. Atty General Memo to DCI concurring

in permanent residency status.

10. OGC memo to D/OS advising that CIA has

responsibility for Nosenko.

11. C/SR Div. M/R re discussion with Deputy

Attorney General on basis for Nosenko detention.

12. Office of Security summary on highlights

of Nosenko case.

13. The Executive Registry indicates this additional

information was passed to the Rockefeller Commission:

Selected short summaries prepared by OGC

for the DDCI.

b. D/OS memo to I&NS advising of Nosenko's

imminent arrival in the USA.

c. OGG memos to D/OS re Parole Status of

Defectors.

5 Aug 1959

10 July 1964

12 Feb 1964

11 Feb 1964

18 July 1959,

24 duly 1969

9 Oct 1969

20 Oct 1969

3 Apr 1964

2 Apr 1964

CA 3 Feb 1975

: 14 Apr 1975 .:

11 Feb 1964

3 Apr 1964

2

---

## Page 7

8882097

d.

OG! inemo to D/OS entitled Nosenko

Options (Rehabilitation program).

e.

Menorandum to David W. Belin from DDCI

responding to specific questions about

Nosenko's period of confinement and about

nature of Agency support for Golitsyn.

f.

Memorandum to David W. Belin from DDCI

listing identities for previous material.

IDENs only were used.

GEORET

14 Feb 1969

22 Jan 1975

24 Feb 1975

---

## Page 8

14-00000

170

ircommendation. (21)

The ClA should strictly adhere to established legal procedures

swerning access to federal income tax information.

Arconimendatiun (25)

CIA intestigative records should show that the investigation

was duly authorized, and by whom, and shouid clearly set forth

the factual basis for undertaking the investigation and the results

sif the investigation.

C. Handling of Defectors

Investigation of dotectors is the responsibility of the CIA under a

National Socurity Council Intelligence Directive, assignig this duty

to the Agency as a "service of common concern" to the intelligence

communty as a whole.

Within the CIA, the Olice of Security is charged with providing

proper sacmity for the handling of persons who have defected to the

I nited States from other nations, A careful procedure has been derel-

oped for such handling.

Genemily a defector can be processed in a fer months' time. In one

instance, howeror, a defector was involuntarily confined to & CLA in-

dallation for approximately three gears. For much of this time, the

detector was held in solitary confinement under estremely spartan lis

ing conditions. The detector was apparently not physicilly abused.

The justification given by the CIA. for the lengiby confinement arose

out of a substantial concern regarding the defector's bond fides. When

the issue vas finally resolved, the defector was given total freedom and

became a nited States citizen.

Tue confinement of the defector was approved by the Director of

(enra) Intelligence on the iritten adrice of the Gencral Counsel. The

F'Il. the Attorney General, the United States Intelligence Board, and

selecied Members of Congress were all aware to some extent of the

continued confinement.

In one other casc. a defector was physically abused, although not.

seriously injured. The Director of Central Intelligence discharged the

employee involted.

Conclusions

Such treatment of individuals by an agency of the United States

is anlawful. The Director of Central Intelligence and the Tospector

General most be alert to prevent repetitions.

---

## Page 9

sofia ' *

0I067-Ü675

LOMORIXDUM 2027-- 180023

JUJICI: Brishag of isy Congion loral Caulacto ca tra

Iden I

11. The Direcior Having approrod ine proposal in my drait remo

0117 Juso 1709 (copy allicaca) reganting the brioliog of lay cosgrcasionsi

costacto os tha biscory and aiatus cé tuo Iden 1.

casc, 1

save briaise the iolianine sizi officars of aponey congressional Subcoi-

miltaaa aioag the linus proponed da ina daies indicated:

•Eradi: Slstinsbei, Assistanê Chicá Counsol, Mouse

Armai Saricas Connlice -- 23 july 1759

William moodrul, Assistani Suiei Cleri, Sonata

Appregriacono Lomeliaa - 24 July 1309

Idraid Braswell, Chici of Dialí, Secate Arasd

Serrices Coriniltec -- 26 Jaly 1959

Suberi Michaols, Siall Arpistari, Iiousa éparopriations

Corrittoe -- 21 July 1903

•2. I suggesied to caco that tay merica the mattar to the rospactive

chairmes vibos and ii they iboughi di appropriato. None of tho stai offeers

regiziared perticular coscero of curiosity arout tho case and libia! it

doubiiul that all di our casirmos baro lect ininrmed. Noveribcicea, 1

thini wa ravo adeguaioly corered tde mattar acd sce no reca io purosa it

further ai this tima.

L521016ve Counsai

misisiriion:

Original - CIC Subject inie

1- Chios, SE Dirsion

1. i/ Socurity

:- CÜC

880051

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECR

19-12=5/

DRAIT:VIA - 19 JUne 1909

•SUSJECT: Brieng oi Key Congressional Contacts on the Iden 1,Case

ten were

The foliowing paragraphs are proposed as guidance for briefing iey

congressional contacts on the history and status of the Iden 1

C350.

They ara based primarily on material providad by S3 Division, and have

been cleared by SB, Cl Staff and the Office of Security. It is proposed that

the Chaïrmen and/or senior staff officers of each of tea Agency Subcommittees

ba brisied along the lines indicated.

1. This case goes baci sometime into history and you may recall

having heard of it sevaral yeaïs ago. From time to time it has received

preas play, boto when it first broke in early 1964 and occasionally since.

2. Iden 1,

a Staft Officer of the Committee 10I

State Security (KGB) of the USSi, and son of a former Minister of Scio-

building in the üSS2, deíecied to the Agency in Geneva, Switzeriano, in

1964 He was then brought to the rited States where ce has

since been in the custody of the Agency undargoing extensive debrieängs

oy oicers of the agency ard the i3i.

-????!

---

## Page 11

828

NE7 AS GILY

¿. Iden l had neen a drois

7011031s

at une tima oi his coiecoi iden 1 has provided a large guantity oi

counter-intelligence data and a limited amount of positive intelligence.

.... For exampie, one of his reports played a part in the negation oi a majos

hostile penetration in Great Britain. Where appropriate, his information

has been sharad with the FBI, other Ü.S. Government agencies and

foreiga Liaiaon services. This nas resulted in extensive and continuinz

investigative activity. In addition, Iden 1 identified many hundrede of

Soviat Intelligence Officeis and broided a considerable quantity of useial

information on the organization oi the NG3, its operational doctrine and

its fecariques and methods.

.1. In debriefing him it became apparent that Iden 1, the privileged

and undisciplined son of a iormer ranking Vinister of the Soviet Government,

was a particularly complex personality, one given to exaggeration of his own

importance. In this regaid, certain aspects oi his life history, when

weighed against other incormation al-cady in our possession, raised some

douòis concerning hia veracity. To permit extensive and prolonged debziading,

arrangements were made to accommodate Iden 1 under highly secure

conditions.

Thesa arrangements were dictated, during the initial phases

at least, by the additional rood to provide Iden 1 with continuing personal

protaction sinca thoro was too distinct possibilly that, as a KGB oilico-,

---

## Page 12

......-•

OLORET

783 67

de word detergened for "emecutive

action" ii the Soviets should discovar

his whereabouts: With the passage of tirin, chdo latice facto is considares

to ba sufficiently diminished to justily a phased normalization of

Iden l's

situation--this despite the fact that some points remaiz unresolved concerniag

his bona fides.

5. The Agency, with the assistance of the FBI, is continuing to .

Inols into those questionable aspects of the case, while remaining alert to

the possioility of hostile inteest. However, during the jull period of his

istay in the United States Iden 1 has cooperated with his interzogators and

with the ather officers respaisible for ais saiety and veliare, and our

current efiorts are being directed toward his gradual adjustment to a normal,

independent status. As a step in this direction, he is row living in his own

privata apariment, aubject to some protective surveilance.

6. This action is being taken in full zecognition of the normal

Problems of readjustment experienced oy many defectors as well as the

¡aci that Iden 1 is a potentially greater problem than most.

he is an

individual whose actions during resetilement may not always be precictable

or wise from the poini of view of his own security. We are hogaiul tha:

Ident is sensible enough to realize that undue publicity caused by any rasi

action on his pait could inad to unpleasant,

pirhaps even dangarous consecuorca,

particulariy ior himceli. We taezciore believe i appropriate to take tais

---

