# 104-10211-10102

## Page 1

104-10211-10102

f.r.

80

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

SEGRETA!

PROCESSING ASIION

BARRED FOR M04289

can non maces

BICIEL

Chief of: 1lon, Mexico City.

TUS IC!

LITEMPO/Operational Report 1-31 Ocrober 1963

ACTIN REJURED RUDELI

Reference: HMMÀ-22365, -1 OCt 1953

1. Taake Assignod LITEMPO.

The following requeste for Mexican tranelt visan for Cubans of Interest

10 KUBARK were handled through the LITEMPO Project:

Date Reguested

Reference

5 Лау 1963

MERTON

в Мау 1963

MERTON

8 July 1963

CHOADIN

Rame

TITZEL, Ladr

Action

Pending

(Sabjoct applied through more than

ose channel.)

VELIZ y Jernandes. Jose Domingo Pending

(Subject applled through more than

one chamnel.)

ROSILL Sanches, Jeobaldo

Pending

(Subject applied through nose chan

one chaanel.)

(contined)

Diatribalon:

I - WH

CHOES HEFERENCE PE

SUSPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA -22437

CLARITICATIOn

SECRET

DATE

7 November 1963

NOS FLE AGRAMER

50-6-11

---

## Page 2

CONT'NUATION OF

DISPATCH

6 1550068: 1906

SECRET

30 Jaly 1961

DECRIP

-1-

HAAMA-2243T

GONZALEZ Layra, Pedro:

leased 21 Oct 63

HERNANDEZ Pores, Landelina del Carines

GONZALEZ Hernandon, Ciodoberlo Gaudoncio

CASIANON DIas. Caridad Luisa

GONZALIZ Castanos, Godoberto Adr-au

24 Soptember 1961

JhaP 11

GONZALEZ VIA, Lathor Concepelon Inqued Oct 69

Caridad

18 October 1963

UFGA 10806

CARMONA Relova, Solesad

COLMENARES CArRIORA, Antondo

COLMENARES Carmona J00e

Ponding

b. DIR -69901 sexed the Blalion lo obtala a lior of all Cubana da Cube

ANAStAS IrANAL viANA to MeNCO. JeroMy K. BINADUM LOSTRO ELAI

approximately four thousand voa applicable are avaiting decialone on Mexican

Voso. These transis viens are aulborinad for lesuance by the Mexican Coner!

In Havana for a dis months' perlod and valla lor travel al lllloes to lairsy dayo

in Manico. Obtaining a lles el paron for whom visas are anthorised does

not recessarlly lodicate travel plana since the appllcant has ola montha lo

anter Mexico.

c. On. z Oclober 1961 the Starton advised LITEMPO last Che Chiaodo

Communata in preparalion for their cominercial enbiblion lo be hold la

December 1961 were especied to ably goode aboard a Brillus ehip "Woos Breeso

which wan achedaled lo arrive la Veracrus on 12 October 191. In thie shipment

thero wao thoughe so be a large anonal al Cimmunirt propaganda. LITEMPO

was asked to intorcept this propaganda.

do Os the sighs of 23 October 1901 the Chiel of Stallon, Mesico, antied

fOr LITEMPO rapport in analuting personnel and recovering proporty la a

sensitive TYPIC operallon (WAVE-6395 nad relatod cables).

The LITEMPO

Iroup Immediataly sons an agont to socior the lajared porconned sad plana have

boon mado los a diacrost recovery of the prop-ty lavalved.

# On the nighs of 10 October 1963 the Sinllen BR and CP care elficer.

contacsed Jeremy I. BENADUM ANd 10kOd tal ho hAVO LITEMPO chocie at the

airport to leara 1l Cloto Manual Soura Dediata had made seservation, to leave

Manteo via a sonth-bound alrline. The LITIMPO froup was naked lo search

auljoct and lla luggago lo 80o 1l ho wan carryday irom $85, 000 1o $50, 000 0.8.

dollare bien he man to hav received from the Soviet Imbasiy la Maxico.

The LITEMPO group checked all airlints and revervations for south-bound

Braval. In the ternoon of ll Cetaber 1963, alter rocelviag inotructons (rom

KUBARK Headguarter!, the Station aaked Me LITEMPO grop to male no

march of subjoct or otherwine hinder his travel. Subjecs departed on l2 October

1963 via Guest Alrlines 0830 Aight for Panam. In the event that mbfoct had

been searchod, HENADUM advised loAl there 1a no Merican law walch forbldo

Bhe carrylog of U.B. corrency. They could have noted the rambers al the bille

but could not have confiscaled tbe money.

10F 330

8. The Chief of Sentlos, Menco, mer ulth LITEMPO/l and 2 several

timoe during into soporias pertod lo sel chair aooloraaco in providing cappers

to Statioa operations such ae daseribed above.

1. O= 28 Oclober 1961, COS. Menico, passed one thousand sennde of

• 223 Call intomale ammunition to LITEMPO/l as a personal file dos

LITEMPO/2 and LITENSOR.

Ad 88-98

!

1.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SICRET AI

ps prussiasino

HEMA -22437

•. On 28 OCRODOS 196S LITEMPOR ashod CO8, Merleo, los Rea

JUITEMPO/& duriag the

presidential eszpalga. (See LEX1-061%, D14-18068 and MI.X1-4726 for detalle.)

No al the cad al October 1963, la Was Well KAOWA LAI LITEMPO/Z woald be the

Pl canildate.

Do Productios.

No Durias chlo poriod, the following reporta, operational cables

and dopatchoe sore baool on infermation obilad threEs LITINtO sources:

НИКА"

€ 726

6698

6649

6579

• 6906

6489

6353

28000

22385

22900

48365

22353

7951

7916

7862

7830

7836

7337

Soot rolle el l6mm Illo lo Headquartore or say further emplotition, Coverage

for the period 1 through 38 Ociaber 1961 agaln Indiented nochratcal daccuitos.

Approximately senty live lost la wall exposed lim and the ramalalag dementy

Alve loot do a sorlos of black shots ouggering at the carm may han been

dropped, The Mados KUNOT octican ul emmne the eaners and lay s

correct the dicenity.

t. Pervennel

• There hay. sons so chancos ln personnel ln chlo Projoct since the

l0s repOrt, HOTeTer, TO LITEMPO/2 becomes to presidential canaddon.

some changed may be noceety.

• Thore mere no security incidente dartag chlo period.

So Problome.

6. Emergensy COntaCt indErustione.

Thare baw boan no changes ence the previer report.

WAlArd G. CURTI

2: 74

---

