# 104-10162-10064

## Page 1

104-10162-10064

1 February 1961

SUB-ECT . : Manuel ARTIC Bueza

men oi ime litiared co leceipt

rogatory Inforsation on Subject iron Pedro DIAZ Ia

1. Because o- the coments rade by Pedro Luis DILl lanz on 13 izman.

1951 to the etrect that Wartel ATIVE Fiesa say be i Comnist azet, LazE's

"ile was reriered for the sipese of acorering any inforation shich rigat

support DIAZ' allegation.

2o Areas open to question are the following:

a Const Party Liliation of Sablect's Father: As noted by Merci

motto, 15/4/5h, Suagest starea

= 2s posigana erarinatio trat his

had gose to Spain caring

i the war, but had not been à neaber ce te

Comnist Party since 1939. Mis stolect was not parsued cy tre coit-

fraid cperator.

Sinject gate sirencat varjing accounts for tie Ieato-a

for his father's gutsing the lars: cring the palferanh erari-acion,

he erlained trat ie Party has i=-erced to send his father to Issia

for traináng, ard diso had ordered his father to iniom on his airds;

when bäs father sized, the Part emelled hin. later, in an anto

biogant: subject stated that his father had left the Party bearse

• +2

"treason snick they coritied against his intirate sriend,

his "treaso=" is not further éetailei. Sablect

that his iatie='s expisica (or resignation) vas reportes in

Eog at the time.

b-

Repart on the Cetober 1959 DR Vesting:

Sabject reported thet the

opes acussions ci amiss Fate = ficel et ai caring a closeá door

IPA neeting in Cober 1959 precipiated his cefection.

Sabieci coric

IOt, LoreTer, reecer the dates ai she reeting.

At first be resorted

that it toor place suring the jast wees in Detcher 1959.

(His letter

to Fidel stating his reasons ic cecection, maich was videly circulated

after his exfiltration, was dated 2 Cctober.) He later correcied this

to 7m3 October.

During the polog-ast examination, he stated se couid :

not renember the dates, but that i: sas a to day seeting, on a Saturday

and Surday, sone rise in mid-october.

oy these posed?

me ?allowing actions were taien is an attempt to resolve doubts raised

Cornist Affiliation of Father.

(1) Janes of parents were traced in RID, with negative resnlts.

SEG.E7

(2) Nanes and/ l

701-267437

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CLA

---

## Page 2

(2) Janos and biographic data on Sabject's parents

vere rimited to the Burean lor tracing ir

their 2les.

Ze Bureau reported that these

indirimals sere not identified in Bureau ?Iles.

(3) Green lists on Sat'ect's parents were snoritted

to Fi/D. Leral-s were negatite.

(1:)

An attempt was sade to procure copies of the neg-

aper (30t, 93,1 in. zaht zare carried sh

tory ca Sabject's father's exulsion tic ti

Party. It has leverined lat no cuban neuspapers

are rect ey tie i the lgency.

(Fibrary doguisi-

and RE/-/Prop were

was nace to procure the capers iren another lgeney

or Iron the libraT 0? Contress.

Actua? Dates ce ate illeged Secret ZP% Yeetigg-

(1) 15 ind cated abore, bact 135ues of Crban neuspapers

are no. arailable niicin the Agency.

It has there-

fore imposibie to creci Subject's story about the

meting againal Less stories in costeroray isstes

of Eeralision, inion be said was given a sons reiease

on

Ze secord lay of the meeting.

(2)

A rerie or 33D laily Samaries for Octobe= 1959 was

recested o ID for the purpose

of unearthing any

overt aroaccast resorting of the zeezirg. FeD,

Latin Anerican branch, Mi. Zoiney LeTing, airiged

that 11 nas not possible foi that office to concuct

such a lenier at is tize.

These subaries are

arailable for revie at 1717 H Street,

and will be

screened i? the tire and effort involved are cor..

sidered astortile.

(3)

WHITE (Barbara Biauda) advised that so reporting

on 's Ociocer ICA neeting had been received other

thao: tha: fra 131.

(4)

It 1s noted tha: Saturcays and Surdays In Ostober 1959

fell as 3-4, 10-11, 17-18, and 21-25 Ostoker, and 31

October - 1 Jorember.

Therefore at least one oi

Sabject's accounts of the dates invaired is false.

- 2 -

---

## Page 3

S0.27

1. Corclusions.

Results of this rerlen of Sablect's file do sot support ie

allegations rade by DIll Lanz. Altong the two zajor areas o? anci

reain

saehat unresolred, the weight of evidence would seem to re

In the Subject's favor.

a. Agency and Burear Mles contain no identipiable recari

of Sabject's father.

b. A'IN? himsell velmteered inoration corcering bos:

the cited areas oes to possible questior. The Schiece

had every reason to beliere that the inforsation le

valunteered (i.e. that his father's expuision fros tre

Party was reported in Est, ad that tre Ill reeting

va covered by a reporter iron Peralicio=) could be

easily verlfied.

The reccid of LiDD's polygraph exarination stated

that strong polygrara ericance had been cotained dat

Subject was a bora fide acci-Castro and anti-Cornis:

defector; that Did had heid a reeting around the

midale of Cctober at mbich Subject ras present; and

that the letter o? resimation addressed to Fidel as

written iy hin ard that it vas generaliy accurate in

reporting the DEd meeting.

d. There has been no eridence in FI/D that APER is

other than what he clairs to be.

5. Corent.

Dare Korales, MATE,CI, hag additionally commented that cere

Is no joTe lost betiren AXIS ard DIAZ, Lanz and that the latte='s

allegations against the fomer are probably false. In ried of DIlI

Lanz feelings against darne, it is not unlisely tat he is enceater-.

ing to baild hirself up in the eyes of his case office: by discreciting

ARTIER.

Chief, IH/WcI

Distribation:

Orig & 1 Addressee

1 - HH/WPA

1 - 14/W/PH

---

