# 104-10121-10377

## Page 1

104-10121-10377

• .

SAOTET

12 February 1964

1413599495451959

SUBJECT:

Debriefing of PRISBECK

6 0r 7 February 196k.

..,".".

Subject reported on various personalities she heard discussed

while she was vlaiting

1a Florias Iron 30

December 1963 to 7 or 8 January 1964.

JOHN BIRCH SOCIETY

PRISEECK received the Impression that the luits have disasaociated

themselves fron the Birchites and have completoly severed their relationship

with the Society and Its purposes. They do not see in ClIMAN, a wealthy

mang who 1s the Blrchite representative in Palm Beach.

WOLLMAN had entertained

the WEYls frequently when they flat moved to Ilorda.

Durlag the entire length of PRISBECK's visit and as far as she

could judge, the WeYle were completely isolated nocially. They have not been

assimllated into the little tow In wnich they live and their only contact

with the townspeople. la at the club whien they frequent, but seldo.

JOHN MARTINO

Mr. and Mrs. MARTINO visited the WiYla one evering then PRISBECK

was present. John MARTIN and Nathaniel WEYL are co authors of the book

"I was Castro's Prisoner", which was publiahed In November 1903. PRISBECK

has read it and says it 1s an extremely Interesting and well written secot

Of MARITNO 's Imprisorment In Cube.

PRISBECK, at this point, cautloned the writer to remember that

all she was relating regarding the WElL's remarks vere rumors and/or gossi

and ther Source had no means of checking the truth of thett Blatement.

John MARIINO is the individual who carries the stories to Nathartel

and both John and Nathaniel are deeply entrenched with the Cuban anti-Castro

forces. MARIINO claims to have a friend in Mland who keeps hin well Informed

on Cuban matters®

Docunset Number 1282-1023

GROUP 1

for FOIA Review on FEB 1977

---

## Page 2

• 2 .

MARKIINO and Nathantel spoke of a trip that MARTINO had mado

to Cuba with an American newspaper vonen, one LAPIN and two CIA agenta.

Nathaniel did not accompany them. It is PRISBECK's opinion that Isthantel,

Who 1a a coward, just welshed on the trip, but that he did finnace 1t..

The purpose of the trip was to contact a Cuban who was serving as 11afson

for the four Rusalan Generals in charge of trainiag and organizing the

Cuban military. The Cuban, who met the group in the water at the edge of

a beach In Cube, told them that the four Generala wanted to escape and

seek asylum in the United States.

MARTINO 18 going ahead with a falion up plan whereby on a given

algnal, be and a group w1ll sall to Cuba to pick up the Generals. Nathantel

15 going on a long lecture tour and will not be able to accompany the pick

up team to cube.

LINE HARVEY OSWALT

the Cuban friends of the umaned individual In Miant know that

OSWALD contacted the Cuban MI-6 by teleptone fron a private hone In Mient.

They aloo know the man who furnished the Information on OSWALD to the FBI.

From the reports given by the Cubans to this unknown individu

It seems very definite that RUBY went to Habana to make a shady deal with

creature by the name of PRASKIN, who works with the Cuban Communisto and

who 16 also tied up vith call girls In Cube.

A friend of Nathaniel WilL, who ran for the presidency of Cuba

In 1958, shortly will testify before the Senate Internal, Security Sub

Comittee.

frisitos says this information may be confidential. - sourwis

of the Camittee, contacted Nathaniel to get in touch with the individual.

MARINA OSWALD

Nathaniel claime there is more to Marina than meets the eye. He

bat a duote dot her both otta, but a and ove tie be tort

Nathaniel knows that after OSWALD was refused a visa to the Soviet

Union, he made & quick trip Ixon Masissippi to Cuba. OSWALD returned from

this trip with money and then purchased a car. This atory of his trip to Cuba

comes from a girl in Mant with whou he was Living when he was in Hiant.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

:!"

-3-

JACK RUBI

Nathandel lo cominced that he was a dope pusher and that he

was used by the Commnlate.

GENERALI

PRISECK advised that it 1a an old girdek wed by the Rusalans

to instruct an American citizen thom they intend to une to go to the Amlean

Consul In the city In Russia where he lo residing and say that he wishes

to retura to the Unted. States but does not have the required nonsy for h1e

paasage.

In this manner, when the Anenteen Consul Furntabes the Individual

his fare; they ostensibly ars giving bin a clean bill of bealth.

Source also advined that no American may vork in Fussla unless be

1s a nember of the CUSA: Isturally, Foreign Service peroonnal and private

bualnessnen on trips er excluded from this restriction. The Party directa

the menher as to his speeific destination in fussie.

Source recade. that an

espionsge training school was located in Klev and that this school vas at111

in existence in this city in 193T, the last date of contact of Source with

Source said it la very Ilkely that the CPUSA instructed OSWALD to proceed

to Klev for the purpose of attending the espionaga school and that likewise

OSWALD was instructed to aet penniless and request passage hone fron the U. S.

Consul In Kiev

Helene Finan

SECRET

43.222804

come det

---

