rod-077-10230

Qin

SE-CR-E-T

TO g (DIRECTOR

FROM g = MEXICO €
ACTON, = WH 5 ae DIV NOTIFIED 2050 9 AL 60)

NF per o/c, DOP, COP, ADDP/A, LA 2, CA/PRS, CA/PROS|
oer cr/ors? eifte 2,100 8, g/e2” i

RL 10 00252 60

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

BIR INFQU SL = CHES MENT
*

REF: A, DIR 387565 (our 94420)
B. MEX! 5052 (IN 22332) **
te LATE wucuT 8 uur bos Hab conFERENCE PARA 7 REF Bf*
2. Lifeiser]srares 1D NOT APPROVE EITHER IN GENERAL OR SPECIFIC TEXT
SPEECH EMILIO SANCHEZ PIEORAS NOR ITEMS TO GE TREATED SPEECH It ADVANCE,

SAIXHEZ SPOKE AS INDIVIDUAL CONGRESSMAN DID NOT SPEAK FOR GOVERMENT, NOR DID

HE SPEAK FOR (WHOLE) PARTY (PRI). HE SAID SEMATORS ANO. CONGS

SMEN "AS IN
U.S.A." SPEAK FREELY AND ON OM, :

3. Lifeson says PORTION SPEECH REGARDING CUBA WAS "WIDSLY MIS-QUOTED™,
HE SALO IN NO PLACE.DID SANCHEZ HENTICH CASTRO OR CLEAN COVERMMENT. HE SAID
2° ANDCHE PCINTED

SANCHEZ EXPRESSED FRIENDSHIP AND SYMPATHY FOR "CUSAN PE.
OUT THIS HAD. BEEN U.S. GOVT FOLICY ALSO. ReawaTERs (HE SAIS) HAVE INTERPRETED
THIS SPEECH TO HAN CUBAN GOVERNMENT AND CASTRO REGIMC, WHICH Lesa STATES
ULLAL ARE GONE FROM

1S NCT MEXICAN POLICY. HE SAID "THE SOOMER CASTRO AND TI
THE CARIGBEAN THE SOONER THIS PORTION OF THE WORLD CAY RETURN TC PEACE AND
NORMALCY",
b, L1feikiforo nor RESPOND TO. ee OF WHETHER HE WILL MAKE CLARIFYING.
STATEMENT BUT BoTH| ier) ano rere8Shn) sar HE WILL MAKE NO SUCH STATEMENT.
5! Grcccta) ecu ieves ue isc WILL SC WILLING IN NEAR FUTURE HAVE MEETING
ot

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUNG- OFACE IS PROH:3IT2D, Copy No.


i i : med _ CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE Peay
: s ROUTING:

DATE ¢

In 2241 HEXt 5853

Li) INFO ° are

(zee BRIEF THEM CUBAN SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES MEXICO, (CoS COMMENT:

GUSTAVO DIAZ OROAZ, MINISTER OF ge HOR, WOULD BE A PRINCEFAL FISURE AND

SPOKESMAN IN, mus;
6. aor (ciac) ano (idvecahr) stare no pet SCKATOR CR. COIRRESSMAN “OF

PRESTIGE" WILL STAND UP AND TAKE ISSUE WITH SANCHE?, itech PRIVATELY STATED
HE HAS ONE OR TWO PRI SCMATOR FRIENDS WHO ARE CLD AND WITHOUT POLITICAL FUTURES
WHO COULO LIKELY BE CONVINCED THEY SHOULD CLARIFY ISSUE, BUT THEY OT “oF
PRESTIGE". ALSO, SOME PARTIDO ACCION NACIONAL (PAN), CATHOLIC RIGHT Wine
CONGRESSHEN WOLLO 00 BUT THIS HOT CONSIDERED WORTH EFFORT ox(icetash)

( q

"Je TO DATE HAVE FOUND SANCHEZ HIGILY Res
NOR PARTICULARLY CLOSE, LAZARO CARDENAS. WILL LOOK FoR “PERSONAL, VANCRABILITIES”,

CTEO NOT PARTICLARLY TO LEFT

‘S. FYI: AMB HILL HAD TALKS WITH FOREIGN MiNISTER TELL AN WITH CORONA
OEL ROSAL ( PRESIDENT OF PRI). SEE HIS EMBTEL WHICH cds HAS NOT SECN YET,
$. WILL CONTINUE TO REPORT. :

. END OF MESSAGE
C/S Comment:

* Suggested operations for the field to attempt to carry out in an effort
to.get cy issue with Sanchez Piedra disclaiming
the latter ements, o}

** Stated that COS‘ 1) would attempt to see}L OR(2)Jon 8 July.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIEITED. Copy No.

