104-10428-10135)

1. . LEADS | INVESTIGATED, BY CIA.- This ‘list does not include seminat ions a: memoranda
: ‘on Gilberto ALVARADO. Ugarte: and. Silvia Tirado de. ‘DURAN

memoranda) Following the subject of the document, ‘ther ds an oe excerpt

‘from the document.”

“3. An asterisk “an the column headed by w indicates that ‘the lead origingted in CIA,

; either’ in ‘the field or headquarters. - a

a

the column headed by (B)

‘4, An abbreviation of. a ‘component of the U. S. * Government
was othe? than the
indicates ‘that the’ originator of the lead when not CIA

“that the Later
responded to the originator. An entry appearing in both. columns ‘indicgtes that
a U.S. representative abroad passed the. lead in the field ‘to the local|CIA ;
Station. ceperemralive + cee ar POE 8! a Bo,

5. The last “column indicates which ‘component (5). received co ies of ‘the OIA dissemina-

tion or memorandum. pane entry appearing, in brackets ind éutes tholpectoiang| re

ceived the document at a latep time.


13-00000

26 November 1963 =DIR 85069 , . Subject: Travel of Pro- Communist’ osta Hi Rican :
: : SE 63...

26 November 1963 DIR 85176 Subject: Marina Nikolaeva oswaLp.

. UA usually reliable source reported. ‘on 26 November 1963, t
Leal, pro-communist, pro-Castro deputy to the Costa Rican National Assem-.
- bly, planned to leave San Jose, Costa Rica, for Poland 24 Aayed ae ae, .
e $s ere

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -—

ongressman to Texas on 26.Noyenbet

tend the World Peace Conference in Warsaw, Poland... SUNOL de
parture and now plans to leave San Jose. 26 November.

“"Representativés of this Agency in Costa Rica suspect. that. StINOL: will. ‘try
to gather. data ‘in. Texas to use in pro-communist/Castro ‘propaganda. ‘in vcon-

nection with the assassination of President Kennedy.

"The following information on Marina Nikolaeva OSWALD, wife o£. Lee Harvey
OSWALD, was volunteered by Moroccan student Mohammed. REGGAB: orn.on 3 :
January 1938 in Safi, Morocco. REGGAB is now living at Nuernbergerstr.
19, West Berlin. REGGAB was a student at the Moscow: Institute of. Cine-

matography from September 1960 to April 1962. He came to Berlin in April

1963 as.a student and on 26 November colunteered the followihg: informa-

tion on Mrs. OSWALD, who had been one of his girl friends. in “Mescow. -He
identified her on the basis of a photo and the first name, arina, which.
appeared in the 25 November 1963 issue of Berliner Zeitung.

"REGGAB makes a favorable impression. and. is available for r fy
tioning.” a

26 November 1963 DIR 85177. : Subject: Telecon ‘between Cuban Pr sident

iS and Joaquin HERNANDEZ Arin

““Rollowing. is account of telephone conversation ‘between Cub resident

Osvaldo DORTICOS in Havana and Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas, Cuban:Ambassador
to Mexico in Mexico City at 0940. hours Mexico City Time on 26"November .-
1963 as reported from sensitive source.". (See Chronologica Summary on

Silvia Tirado de DURAN. ) : :

Julio. ‘SUNOL.”

ther. ques- :

(8) os - RECIPIENT(S) -

~ EBI

FBI, State, White
House; Secret Service

FBI, State, “White:
House, Secret Service


13-00000

+ DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT. =... - A) ) - RECIPIENT(S) -
27 November 1963 . “oscr- 5/778, 881 » Subject: ‘Lee A. ~ OSWALD/Sovtet Activities in ee oe FBI
oe ” Mexico” ity, 18 “24 November 1963: we, ee ie :

"le Forwarded ‘as “Attachment A ts ‘a resume of: the observed tivities ‘of ©
Valeriy Vladimirovich -KOSTIKOV: and: Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERIEV - ‘ds “reported *.
.by a relfable. source in’Mexico City. . Attention-was.given to::KOSTIKOV: ~- con .
because of the indication that he is the consul who interviewed OSWALD - : es we :

on 28 September-1963 ... . .... ALFERIEV:. travelled with KOSTIXOV.to nor- J. - > f |
thern Mexico fyring. the early ‘part’ of September 1963... bear ‘reported rs es ge
that during thé period under review the ‘observed activities df KOSTIKOV ~ an : a
and ALFERIEV appeared to be. normal, as. did the. activities of: the entire . ee ws . ;
Soviet Embassy complement. . . ye : i

"2. Forwarded ‘as Attachment B is a resume of telephone calls laced to
and from the Soviet, Embassy on the afternoon of 22 November.-:* Analysis of
calls made the morning of 22 November and the morning and afternoon of 23
November revealed no pertinent information.”

27 November 1963 “DIR 85182 - Subject: “Lee H. OSWALD. : ® ; FBI, State, White.

House, Secret Service
"2, on 23 ‘November 1963, Richard Thomas GIBSON, who was acgilainted with ; ; {Warren Commission]
‘Lee Harvey OSWALD, made the following | statements to a close | friend in. ,
Bern, Switzerland:
"OSWALD is ‘one of us'. Two years ago OSWALD and GIBSON: corresponded ; 7 \
, and OSWALD became a member of the Committee. (presumably ‘the ‘Fair . ;
\ Play for Cuba Committee). OSWALD ‘is crazy.- GIBSON burned all of his
correspondence with OSWALD. GIBSON is glad that he .(GIBSON) is not
in New York now and he feels Sorry: for ‘Lee! Who is’ in New. York and
‘Tibor" . . : ; : fe
"3. According to other information ‘available to our. represel{
Bern, Richard Thomas GIBSON, born 13 May 1931 in Los Angeles; Galifornia, :
has resided in Lausanne, Switzerland, since April 1963. @ negro . 7 : ,

journalist and has been "active in the Fair Play for Cuba Comm ttee since
its organization in 1960. In Switzerland he has. been involve: “in the ;
publication La Revolution Africaine." oy . ms



13-00000
- DESCRIPTION OF | DOCUMENT: =

26° November 1963 . DIR 85246. “Subject: “Lee He OSWALD.

“On 26 November, Dr. Jose ‘Guillermo AGUIRRE of Mexico: told: athe following
“ information to Peter MORAGA, United.§ States Information’ Servite’ officer in
= Mexico. City?” 7 : : :

"Maria Rodriguez de LOPEZ, said : a ‘son-4n- -1aw of hers,

“A st .
RODRIGUEZ, who lives in New Orleans was well acquainted with ‘Lee ‘OSWALD:

_Son-in-law is a Cuban who lives. at 212 Jefferson Parrish, Ne Orleans, ae

tel: Vernon 5-9658. Arnesto RODRIGUEZ: runs.a Spanish. langifage® school — | ~

and is anti-Castro. According to Maria Rodriqguez _ LOPEZ.
* Law, has a taped conversation with OSWALD."

on-in-. :

hn November . 1963 Blind Memorandum subject: vuirsy Fisdtntgoniea KOST. KOV... -

"After examining all our traces on KOSTIKOV, we are “eonvincell: beyond.
reasonable doubt that he is'a staff officer of the KGB. Contributing. .
to this conclusion are his associates, his movements, ‘his Méxican and
other contacts and his cover position, as well as. his” Anvelvement in :
‘the TUMBLEWEED operation. : : :

oy

“XOSTIKOV's involvement in TUMBLEWEED is, our only reason ‘tol elieve that.
he is connected with the 13th Department. KOSTIKOV was in élandestine
_-contact with TUMBLEWEED (as definitely confirmed by TUMBLEWERD's photo
identification) and arranged TUMBLEWEED" s” contact in the U.Sk with a KGB.
colleague of KOSTIMOV's." : ; 4 LE

28 November 1963 DIR 85657 subject: ‘None. “given.

"On 26 November 1963, a British journalist “named John WILSO
Known as John WILSON-HUDSON, gave information to the American ~ assy
in London which indicated that an ‘American gangster-type nathed RUGY'-
visited Cuba around 1959. WILSON himself was working in Cuba. at. the...

time and was jailed by Castro before he was deported.

"In prison in Cuba, WILSON says he met an*Aherican ‘gangster | anbler
named SANTOS who could not return to the. USA because there were several
indictments outstanding against him. Instead he preferred to live in
. sO i _ . ae
rs

ro

USEMB -
London

+ RECIPIENT(S) -

: FBI, State, White
: House, Secret Service

FBI"

. FBI, State, White

‘House


13-00000

28 November 1963. DIR 85665 ,

28 November 1963 DIR 85676 Subject: Travel. of Soviet Diplom

‘relative luxury in a-Cuban prison. = While SANTOS was in pri: in, WILSON |

. with the Soviet. Ambassador and the. Cuban Embassy).

‘th be more precise, SANTOS had replied ‘just wait.: just wai

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT :

says, SANTOS was visited frequently by an American gangsteratype named
RUBY. . His story is being followed up. ." WILSON says he had ofice testi-
fied about. Castro activities before the Eastland Committee of the U.S.

Senate, sometime in 1959 or.1960."

"Our Station 4 The Hague has. reported that’ on 23 November | 63, a local
Castroite nameq Maria SNETHLAGE talked to Third Secretary Ritardo SANTOS:

of the Cuban. Embassy in The Hague and said that:she knew the: 'Mr. LEB! -

[sic] who murdered President Kennedy... She:characterized .'LEB' as aman;
full of hate and violence, and speculated that. he had been ‘inisused by a -
group’. She said she had written to GIBSON (undoubtedly. Richard. GIBSON,
U.S. citizen of Lausanne, Switzerland, born 13 May 1935, a Gdstro sympa-
‘thizer, who had visited the Netherlands recentiy and was in:dontact both

“Later on 23 November, Maria SNETHLAGE. talked again to Third Secretary:
SANTOS and said that 'Mr. LEE of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee' had
been slandered. It was another person, ‘named Lee OSWALD" Who had done
it. SNETHLAGE is reported to have been in Cuba in January atid

May 1963. mo a Poles
"Dutch authorities have informed us that on 7 November, in
attacks by Cuban refugees against the Cuban mainland, SANTOS h:
‘just wait and you will see what we:can do. .It will happen jsoon'. Asked -

: ‘again in

a

reported to have a pro-Castro brother in the U.S.A..

"A very sensitive source reports that after his-conversations with SNETH= |
LAGE, SANTOS was furious because she. had not contacted. him.' . “

"1, Reference is made to your teletype of 8 November 1963 concerning the
travel to Mexico of Soviet diplomatic couriers Valentin Germanovich
PONOMAREV and Aleksey. Nikolayevich POPKOV. °° -... hed .

fey

FBI

- RECIPIENT(S) -

pee tee
FBI, State, White
‘House, Secret Service

{Warren Commission] .

FBI S$


13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT --

"2. “According. ‘to our representative in Mexico ‘city, PONOMARHY and POPKOV.
left Mexico City for Cuba on 12 November- via Cubana’ 465 and’ returned Rake
. _ Mexico City on 18 November via Cubana, :

"3, Ae ‘usually reliable and sensitive source. ‘reported - that they. probably”

left Mexico. City for New York on 23 November: via Aeronaves ‘Flt 451.-: “The
‘same source reported that one ‘ANANYEV' (phonetic) of ‘the™’
in New York contacted the. Soviet retare4 in Mexico City on!:23-November. and
requested information on. which flight the couriers were taking. Assistant
Consul Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV Provided, the information oh: behalf.

of the Soviet t Embassy in Mexico. city." a : . Sea

29 Novenber 1963 ‘DIR 85691 obs subject: None given. a

"L. Your attention is called to a series of anonymous telephone calls. :
_ made to the Office of the U.S. Naval Attache in Canberra, 4} stralia, by
--a-mang claiming to have had know&gedge abdut a Soviet plot: t

the late President Kennedy. Our first record of this matte

Attache cable from Canberra sent. on 24 November 1963.

"8. Australian authorities working on this case consider. ‘the: called to be
a crank, They state that Soviet offices in Australia do not: use: anything
but Soviet chauffeurs; they have no record of their using. a Polish chau-
ffeur. They are continuing their investigation. woe

“29 November 1963 DIR~-&5715 Subject: Travel of 1 ‘Lee Harvey 08 i

Information gathered ‘from various foreign sources regarding
of Lee Harvey OSWALD and his, wife in 1959 and cater

29. November 1963 DIR 85770 oe Subject: None given.

"2. On 4 November 1963, a-U.S. Army Pfc Eugene B. DINKIN,. serial number”
RA 76710292, about 24 years old, went absent without leave ‘from his unit,
Headquarters Company, U.S. Army General Depot, Metz, Frances He was
scheduled for a psychiatric examination that same day. He ‘apparently
entered Switzerland using a false Army identification card with forged
travel orders.

“og

viet Consulate

(B) se - RECIPIENT(S) -

“Navy | FBI, State, White

House ». ‘Secret Service

FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service

Army © FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
(Warren *Commission]


13-00000

30 November 1963 ~~ CSCI-3/778,894 ‘subject: Lee. H. OSWALD.

‘Nations Office in Geneva and told. reporters: he’ was. being Siege He;

"4, Around 26 Novenbez- 1963; aft r Pre: id nt

"1, Attached is an article which appeared on page 2 of the

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

"3, On 6 and 7 November 1963- She appeared : in the Press’ ‘Room United |

also wished to alert the world. to the U.S." Government ‘prop
paign'.. Army reports show that he’ voluntaril:
Metz on or about 11. November 1963...

ganda catn-
nit’ in:

‘returned: to hi

nnedy. had be ssassina-- at
ted, a Geneva journalist named’ Alex des FONTAINES, stringer for ‘Time-Life
and. correspondent for Radio Canada, ‘was reported-to be filing a story to .
the Paris offi¢e of Time-Life recounting Private, DINKIN's visit to Geneva
and quoting DINKIN as having said :that 'they'- were plotting Against: Presi-|
dent Kennedy and ‘that "something! would happen in Texas. Deb FRONTAINES © ©
had been prompted to’do this by an unidentified female reporter:who had -
recalled such statements by. DINKIN;. des. FONTAINES. thought he: recalled he

had heard DINKIN say ‘something like. that also, and although he .did not ae
teally believe that DINKIN‘had ‘grounds for his Statements w che mage . .
them, he- filed the story just to be sure. re i

"S, All aspects of this story were known," as ‘reported’ ‘abov y U. s. Lo
military authorities and have been Teported by nilitary attache cable
through military channels." :

a oe FBI

5 November

1963 issue of the Washington Daily News. -The article contaifs _informa-_

tion which implies that two persons might have been, Anvolved:!
ssination of President Kennedys 6 ee 8 0) ° .

"2, The Washington Dail News article ‘also. ‘states. ‘that the
ad [placed in The Dallas Morning News on 22. Noveriber]. which
cost $1250.00 was placed by - [Bernard], WEISSMAN, that he paid: «

the ad, and that WEISSMAN resided in.Dallas. at-:a small apartment house.
The article indicates . .. that he roomed with one William BURLEY, . . .

"3, The records of this office contain information: about one:. si11 BURLEY,
a U.S. Air Force Tech Sergeant, stationed in Libia in 1958 who may have
been involved in nafarious activities. You are referred to the Office of
Special Investigations, USAF, for possible additional information.

a 6 .

(B) . - RECIPIENT(S) -


13-00000

3 Decenber 1963 DIR 26496, y “Subject: Lee = Harvey OSWALD.

4 December 1963 DIR 86702 ‘Subject: Lee Harvey. OSWALD.

"6, The above information is’ provided ‘as ‘a. ‘result. of ta pret am
\. of our. records. The records. of this office contain no. adit Ofial informa-|
“tion ‘which at this time can be identified'as pertaining to th

sme might have ». been ain contact with, then. a

"On the’ question of why Lee OSWALD felt that he could not ge! his - Mexican

West Germany from East Germany to Holland-on.3' June 1962. She traveled |

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT = —

"4, Our. information indicates ‘that. BURLEY had contact “with
persons whose activities seem to have ‘been questionable.

inary ‘check :

@::persons who

might be identical with the men who placed: the: newspaper ad | r to persons

visa extended without using his real name, the following may. be germane:

_ Mexican immigration records checked by the U.S. Consulate in: ‘Nuevo Laredo

and reported through the U.S. Embassy to both out office and: yours, showed
that Lee OSWALD entered Mexico on 26 September 1963 using thé: name HARVEY
OSWALD LER. .It may be that OSWALD feared that. any. attempt tO extend his

visa.would result in discovery that he was. in the country under a false

name; he might have had to show some identification to get the visa; exten-
ded, and he probably had no documentation in the name of HARVEY. OSWALD
LEE.'

=x.

ee FBI,
: : House, Secret Service

~ RECIPIENT(S) -

State, White

"Records of the Foreigners: Records Office of the German redetal Republic. aan _ - {Warren Commission]

in Cologne, Germany, show. that Marina Nikolayevna. PUSAKOVA OSWALD crossed .

by rail, crossing into West Germany at Helmstedt on 3 June alld entering |
Holland by rail at the Bentheim crossing -point.: She had West - ‘German. visa
694/62 igsued at the West German. Embassy in Moscow. She listé er final:
destination as U.S.A.° Comment:. This confirms information fi¥om.the'U.S.°:[°
Embassy in Moscow to the effect that the ‘OSWALD family traveled from Mes-
cow to Rotterdam by rail. around 3. June 1962. Helmstedt and. ‘Bentheim are .
on the main rail route from Russia to Rotterdam. While Lee OSWALD himself
and their infant daughter are not recorded in German: records''this probably
because little attention is paid to U.S. ‘citizens and to inf ts in n Keep:
ing travel records."

-7 -


13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - (B) - ~. = RECIPIENT(S) -

-§ December 1963. DIR 87189. ‘Subject ‘None piven.

"1, We have learned that on'3 Decenbe 1963, a known ‘Soviet, intelligence
officer in New Delhi, India, working..through: Indian. communistd, aiten
‘to have a number of telegrams sent. to. President JOHNSON ,: -Chig : ustéce .
WARREN, and Attorney General’ KENNEDY. from Indian. youth, ‘legdi, and, other -
groups, demanding a full probe. into ‘the. ‘assassination of President ‘John F.j.
Kennedy... Apparently the Soviet officer undertook ‘to pay forall the tele-|
grams; he. said the whole “scheme. was “based: on torders from M acow' ale! ae

‘FBI, State, White
House :

"2. Note: Tol check « on ‘this story. and to. “detect. similar. ac vity fron o
other areas, this Agency would appreciate Teceiving | data on any such« ‘tele-
grams which have been received, a a .

* ; FBI, State, White
ees ie House, Secret Service
“Reference is made to our OUT Telegram. no. “96702 of 4 Decem’ r 1963 which 7 . ' {Warren Commission]
gave information on the travel of Marina OSWALD. (and presumal ly: also Lee

Harvey OSWALD and their daughter). across West Germany on their’ return .

from the Soviet Union. Information now available from Dutch! authorities

seems to confirm this. On 3 June 1962 one M. OSVALD, listed": ‘as a male-

Russian citizen entered the Netherlands by. train at the Oldehzaal border

point. "Comment: It is believed that the listing of this pérson as a.male

instead of female was just an error of the border officials: .
Oldenzaal is opposite Benthein, the German border point whe
OSWALD teft Germany. " . : .

6 December 1963 | DIR 87520 a ‘Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

9 December 1963 - DIR 87751 _ SPS, ‘Richard ‘BEYMER, American e FBI

in Touc with Cuban, Embassy, Mexi

"Ty, The Mexico. city News of 5 ‘Decenbér 1963 ‘carried a eke os Richard
BEYMER, American movie actor, who. was. a t delegate. to: the Film; estival bess.
ing heid in Acapulco. : coe

"2. BEYMER was in touch with ‘the Cuban. Embassy in Mexico ‘City: on. 2 Decen-
ber, and a person believed to be BEYMER was in touch with the Embassy on
30 November. He wanted to speak to Silvia. DURAN, who was not at the. Em-
hassy. Another employee told him that no reply had been received from :
Cuba. ; eo So ve : oo

Seg


13-00000

9 December 1963 - DIR naps “Subjects .

OMB This. office -has no information ¢ on BEYMER.

. Our Station in Stockholm judges this to be''a crank letter

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT: +:

"4, . DURAN is the Mexican. employee. of the. Cuban Embassy with. whom ‘Lee Be:
OSWALD was in touch regarding. a. visa for Cub : oe

None given.

"1, ‘The Ameriéan Embassy in Stockholm, Swede, “has: receiv

‘mailed 25 ‘November 1963 in Stockholm alleging that the assassination of
' President Kennedy was ‘arranged by the Red ‘Chinese

to be from one Ryo Liang Yuan of the Red Chinese Embassy in Stockholm,
but no such official is assigned there and there fs!.no recé da of Chinese
official by this name anywhere | abroad. © : : :

"2. The letter is written in broken English « and stated: that. the Chinese
communists got in contact. with OSWALD when. he was in the SdViet Union.

- When OSWALD returned to the U.S.A., the Red Chinese re-contacted hin, .

threatened. to expose him if he did not cooperate.’ The Red Chinese ex- °
pected that. the U.S. would attack Cuba when it: learned that the assassin.
was a Cuban sympathizer. The Soviets would ‘then: ‘attack thé U.S.A., the |
Red Chinese would ask the Soviets for atomic weapons:,’ the Communist ‘Bloc
would win the war, the Chinese Reds would’ then|.assassinate RUSHCHEV and
take over control. . ve Be : ‘

ny The writer said he worked for ‘the ‘Department of ‘State Secret’, but
i i Sovernment.
The original

letter is being sent: here for analysis."

11 December 1963  TDCSDB-3/658, 408 subj ect: Comments of Soviet Offi ial seuarding

loscow “Views: on ‘International: Situation fol-
lowing Death of President: Kennedy. 2
tion of. Disarmament Talks; :

"The Soviet official ‘was recently on a trip home.

ist purports = | ee

- RECIPIENT(S) -

RBI, State, White

House, Secret Service

.fWarren Commission]

Full dissemination
J


13-00000

12 December 1963.  escI- -3/779, 048 ‘subject:

12 December 1963. DIR ageas Subject: Assassination: of. Presiden Kennedy _ . a “p.3: Ginko

16 December 1963 3er-s/779,185 -gubjects

to Geneva. about the .end of November’. -When.

+ DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT:

: if eviously: dis-
cussed political topics with him,.‘askdd: about ‘the; reaction in. Moscow to’ i
the death of President Kennedy the Soviet official immediately. launched:

into lengthy commentary. “It may be‘that. subsource's Teady by | onses and):
apparent spontaneity. resulted. froma repition, of. wid dy’ heidi ews. «/How-:
ever, considering his ‘position it: ee : omnents were
intended for western _consumptio w.

Compilation of: information’ from Agency £ files “rezerding Carl
also known as John WILSON- HUDSON and, John. Hud WI

egedly Part: of Plot.
_ Presidents.” :

"). An undated letter, sent to U. s. Anbassador Raymon. TELL U. $. Em-
bassy, San Jose’, Costa Rica, refers to the assassination of: ‘President
Kennedy as part of a general plan to exterminate all .the presidents of
the democratic world. The writer of the letter, "Rodrigo Ci, identifies.
himself as a Costa Rican of Marxist-Leninist “ideals, whose assignment is -
the assassination of President ORLICH of ‘Costa: Rica:and Foréign Minister
ODUBER of Costa Rica. . The anvelope in which the letter. arrived is post-.
marked 28 November 1963, from. Heredia, Costa he Letter. is believed
to be the work of a crank. ne °

‘Peter:DERYABIN ':
Kennedy. ‘Assass atio;

"1, Attached for your perusal are ‘the | we tte ‘comments of ko defector a
Peter DERYABIN on some aspects of the assassination “of President: John. F.’:.
Kennedy. As you know, DERYABIN defected from the:KGB. about: ten years ago,
and his personal knowledge is not up to date, but he has stayed in touch

with Soviet intelligence developments to ‘the best of his abflity. His. -
comments on how Lee OSWALD and his. wife must ave. been handled by Soviet

intelligence authorities while they were‘insi he oviet: U; ion are par:

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

FBI..

FBI, State, White
House. [Warren Com-
mission]

~ FBI


13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - | - RECIPIENT(S) -

“ticularly interesting and his suggestions. for. he wyestioning|

| Marina. OSWALD are equally Provocative, -

"2, We have decided to pass on his’ views without editing, a
does, not Specifically. endorse his: conclusions { I

18 December “Tse - DIR 89970 : Subjeq : ; a . a Popes pe FBI, State, White
. : : : Pes ft an re “House »: Secret Service
“Reference is made to our OUT Telegram’) no. "gs182 of. 27 Novembé r 1963 . - [Warren Commission]
Richard Thomas! GIBSON, U.S. citizen.who was once associated with’ the. ‘Fair EE :
Play for Cuba Conmittee in New York was interviewed: in early: ‘December 1963
by a U.S. Consular officer in Paris, France, to. seeif he ha r
. on Lee OSWALD. GIBSON said ‘he had never known’ any: one by that name but .
menttoned- the following two possibilities: . foe

"GIBSON was “very cooperative and said his” assaciation y with thé publication a
‘Revolution’ was for | Purely economic reasons.

27 December 1963 “CSCI-3/779, 297 Subject: Assassinat on of Presiden Kennedy. / me ; FBI

"1, Reference is made to a report passed. by a field office “this Agency:
to your office in Miami on 7 December 1963, Y stating that the assassination
‘of President. Kennedy had been arranged. in Cuba: by the Cuban government and
_the Chinese communists. The report mentioned .the names. of fn. SAAVEDRA, ,
Ramon B. CORTES, Fernandez FETTO , and Robert iNIETO. :.The re ort was not
disseminated by our Headquarters because ‘we wished tO. check .

"2, 2. 0. the report is still seridusly: in doubt: ; " Accordin: to him
{source],-the statements about the assassination ‘being. a Cuban‘and Chinese
communist plot were made by -one. Raul. SAAVEDRA;’ who ‘he says. isia high Cuban
government official. We have: not: yet been. abl ito: identify: hin, ee

initial report on this topic. As soon as we can talk to him personally, . ‘
we will try to get more information, but we doubt whether thi$..can be. ar-. : :

ranged in the near future. We wish to point out: that this soltrce has in

the past produced several reports of a sensational’ nature which turned out

to be untrue. We do not believe he deliberately” submitted false informa-

"3, We have not been in direct physical contact: with our. seh, since his

af We


13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT. "= RECIPIENT(S) -

tion, but he appears to be ‘unable in sone cas
properly." _

2 January 1964 CSCI-3/779,729.. “Subject: oy

"1, In connection with our efforts "

Nikolayevna OSWALD, nee PRUSAKOVA,* widow: ‘of. the. ‘Suspected assassin of |
President KENNEDY, Lee Harvey OSWALD, our attehtion:was. drawmto.oné ~~
Lyudmila Nikolayevna PRUSAKOVA, who was one of=28 Soviet ' ‘student's | invited
by the Scotish Union of Students to visit England as tourists.in May. 1960.
A visa application compteted by PRUSAKOVA.on 17. March. 1960, topy of which
‘has been acquired from the British internal service: ys disclosed. the; fol-
lowing background information: rr

he

"2, While there is no indication. ‘chat PRUSAKOVA is related. to Marina _
Nikolayevna OSWALD, your Bureau may wish to discuss’. this sa with

Marina OSWALD because of such possibility. -In-the event that ‘PRUSAKOVA is
related to (or known to) Marina OSWALD, we: would appreciate Being s ade:
vised." a : a

30 January 1964 CSCI-3/779,814 Subject: Jack L. RUBY ; Lee Harvey OSWALD. - a FBI
; , Vietin Civil Rights = oo ;

"1, Reference is made to ‘your memorandun of anu ry 1964, subject as
above, concerning a report of a visit. to Cubaiin early 1963 nade by :Jack"
L. RUBY, assassin of Lee Harvey. OSWALD: . ‘This /Agency has recéived | a‘simi-
lar report from a gousce ‘to the effect. that -RUBY. - ;

1962 or in early 1963 eee oe Our: source
vidual could verify the above: ‘informatio :

|
"NEvidio. Bernardo. ‘PEREIRA ‘Agosta ‘«.

i}
hose) address as 0:
September 1963 was 821 sw and. Street Miami.,-F

"2, We suggest that. -your. Bureau - may prefer: to interview PEREIRA Acosta”
“~~. VV We would appreciate receiving the results of your interview of

PEREIRA Acosta. Your Bureau will be advised inthe" vevent we receive fur-

ther information relating to this matter. ae . ;



13-00000

14 “February, 1964 ° ; csct- “3/779, 988 - ‘Subject

4 ) February 1964 : -cscr- 3/779, 817. subject: ‘Lee Harve De
; 1 tn response to your ‘communication ;: DL 100- 10461, ‘dated

v addresses, and. telephone: numbers:

ey, ‘subsequent ¢ to the preparation of: our’. csc 3/798: 817, “ddte d

~ DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT. -

-1963, your file (S) 105-82555, subject as. above,: enclosed i
-information from the files of this. agency, ‘his information
‘th Soviet Uni

Lee Harve

1964, subject. as above, in response to your: ‘communication DL-100-10461,
dated 31 December 1963, file number . (S). 1105-82555 addition ‘information,
on the subject has come to our attention. This information Was received -
from ‘your office in your. communication DBA 59901, dated“20 December 1963.

It is repeated below for the convenience of your ‘Personnel 4f olved in the
-OSWALD case. eee

‘18 February 1964 Memorandum for Director, Federal. Bur au of Investigution;

18 February 1964

Subject: Assassination of President John F. Kennedy. - [DDP. 4 ~086i] |

"2, Your memorandum dated 6 December. 1963, file DL ‘too: 104
lists 47 photographs which were among: the- effects of Lee. Harvey” ‘OSWALD,
and made available to your Bureau by . |. . of ‘the. Dallas Police Depart-
ment. .. . It appears that most of the photographs were taken. in. the’
UBSR and depict Soviet contacts of OSWALD, or. scenes: ‘én the oviet Union,

"2. In connection with our efforts ° to. assist: ‘the. President Commission.
on the Assassination of President Kennedy. by. providing infotmation which~

_ might be helpful in interpreting available-materials. our-eart to OSWALD's
‘i

activities. abroad, we would appreciaté receiving. at your cat. est conven-
ience one copy of each of these. photographs, 0 or exemplars, £ om which we
can make copies. _ :

and Research, Department of State.
Subject: Assassination of President John F. Kennedy. :. Verification of

‘December
he requested | -

4 February .

Memorandum for Mr. Thomas L. HUGHES , .The Director of. ‘Intelligence

FBI.
_ "3 |. RBI, Warren Com=
: foe mission
a : o
a ; . FBI, State, Warren

Commission

on -@) = RECIPTENT(S) -


13-00000

_+ DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT: - - RECIPIENT(S) -

Entry in “Historic Diary".

"1, oe ‘In a document entitled Miistorie Diary ‘there’ appéars an entry

which refers to 'an elderly. Anerican'.::.The-entry is -under pe date 26° 5.
October 1959 when OSWALD was allegedly. confined an. unid ified -Moscow _
-hospital. -. . .° It is apparett:.that-eve Id’ iden-
tify the elderly American, if he.existed... Y he lead is:
still outstanding. It is: our ‘recommendation ‘that ‘the: ‘Department of. State |-'
urgently request through its channels.a careful search of Bitbassy and Con-|° - 00’.

sular records. in Moscow which’ might reveal the” ‘identity of ‘dit elderly © | oe usd - we) s
American hospitalized at the.end of October 1959 and: possibly registered hos i:
with the Embassy as. a: tourist. ~-An. gtndependent confi 1 ‘Of .

information on osWaLp's stay in the USSR."

19 February 1964 ” Memorandum . for Mr. Js Lee. “RANKIN, General. ‘Counsel
Subject: Cuban Consulate and Embassy ‘in. Mexico tye.

"1, Reference is made to your. letter of 10 February 1964,
formation supplied by, this Agency on 1 the ‘activi ties of Lee H
“ain Mexico City... .  .

P.C. Warren Commission

"3, We surmise that the reference in: OSWALD
man who had since. been replaced must refer t
who left Mexico for Cuba on permanent transfer.on 18 Consul, Hu
days before the assassination. AZCUE had. been.in Mexico for. eig

ears and it was known (to us) as early as” September ‘1963 that he was to -
he replaced. His replacement did arrive. in ‘September. :
led to leave in October but did:not: leave.

"4, We do not know who might ‘have: told OSWALD - that AZCUR of: any other: _

Cuban had been or was to be replaced, but’ we: ‘$peculate thatSilvia DURAN
i i ; if: plained about

AZCUR's altercation with him." 0 =. ns

20 February 1964 CSCI-3/779,988 Subject: FBI. FBI



13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF ‘DOCUMENT ‘~ (A (B). - - » RECIPIENT(S) -

Lev.
SETYAEV - Radio Moscow... .' a report from. your office dated’-20 becenber
1963, subject: Lillie May RAHM, contains the- following information:. whe
' Annette (nee ZUGOFF) SETYAEVA, . ....is married to'.a. Leo SE
worked: for Radio Moscow; -. .. "

a "2. Concerning the entry.on page: 63 of OSWALD's. address ‘book

|" Warren Commission
_ Secret Sepvice: FH
_OFBE:

5 March 1964" Memorandum ‘for Mr. Js ‘Lee RANKIN, “General. Counsel ete.

Subject: ‘Summary of Findings “in (Regard to. . Amegattons: by iiohanmed REGGAB
Relative to Marina OSWALD. | °) oe « (MDP 4-1171]

oe on 26 November 1963, Mohanmed REGGAB, a Moroccan ‘student i in West Ber-
- lin, made‘a statement that he could supply information on a'Marina Niko-
ovna! who. he asserted was identical with Mrs. Marina OSWAL ‘The attach-
‘ment isa summary of our findings in regard to REGGAB's allegation. The -
‘report covers investigation including polygraphing. in Berlin:and inquiries
oo: conducted in Morecco during the period 26 November: 11964 to March 1964.

ae It is our conclusion that REGGAB's story’ ‘of is acquaintance with
rs; Marina OSWALD is a fabrication.” — :

20 March 1964 CSCI-3/780, 612 Subject: Assassination of Presiddnt John F. * FBI
. Kennedy. a : . we : , :

=|. In the course of our research of files: Pertaining to. areas of ‘the oe
USSR in which Lee Harvey. OSWALD allegedly: resid #dph of. an Ane.
dividual closely: resembling: OSWALD. was’ uncove: ed.

"2, Our - files indicate that. this- ‘photograph
color transparency taken in Minsk, USSR,.on'¢
an American tourist, Mrs. Monica BE. KRAMER
7 P.O. Box 985, Solvang, California... 0°"

: Jie rom.
tell Augilbt 1961, by”
ddress a ith e tine was.

"8, Mrs. KRAMER and Miss NAMAN , both of ‘whom’
were contacted hy this Agency on a one- time b
from their. tour of the USSR. .

"6. Mrs. KRAMER, . . . furnished this” ‘Agenc
cies taken during the trip.


13-00000

27 March “1964 “Vlenorendun ‘for Mee" ‘
- and Research, Department of: State

31 March 1964 Memorandum for Mr: J. Lee RANKIN, “Genera ‘Counsel ett is
Li

"O.. This office would be interested in. any
. interviews of Mrs. KRAMER . and Miss,

“2. We have rhceived ‘a report: that. the hosp!

- generally .taken‘in the event of an emergency: or serious ilinégs;: and the

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT tay y+ RECIPIENTS) -

NAMAN
provide ee ec alheee

ho
Subject: ‘Assassination of: President. John :

of |
Entry in. "Historic Diary". ; BoP a 4°1606)

: Cen : os mission, FBI.
“al to:which ‘OSWALD was ‘taken | ~ .
by Soviet authorities after’ the suicide ‘attempt: mentioned in-his ’ ‘Historic
Diary' may. have been the Botkinskaya:Hospital:in Moscow.. The.1958 and ©
1962. Moscow telephone directories for Organizations ‘and Institutions, list
a hospital named:S. P..Botkina.. Our specialists “advise that a;native of. .
Moscow would normally refer to this hospital “as the. "Botkinskaya'. “It is”
said to be the hospital to which foreigners and: diplomatic. petsonnel | are.

speciall nated

building or wing-of the hospital is “reported o be:
for this purpose. :

: nh
"3. We would appreciate receiving. information. on.any. ‘Americans : “who might
have been patients at the 'Botkinskaya’ in the fall ‘of 1959 that may, be.

contained in your files or. those of your., Enbass

Warren Commission
Subject: Reports .on Activities: cand Travel ° : :
ikolevna OSWALD. : : ‘

"1. Reference is made. to. the second & pabagren your: menoraiidumn’ dated 12
February 1964, and the second paragraph'-of ‘your. ihémorandum : of | 16. M oo
1964; relative to disseminations, of. informat m made by CIA to the Secret |
Service. _

"3, Attached to this ‘memorandum are exact copies of two , teletyped messa-
ges relative to the travels and activities.of.the OSWALDs (Attachments A
and B). .. . In Attachment C, OUT Teletype-no.:' ‘85715, are found refer-
ences to two other teletyped messages (OUT n 85182 and OUT hos 85665) -

which describe one Richard Thomas GIBSON, .. -

85162 and no. 85665 are included as Attachme

State, Warren Com-


13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT: - (AB) RECIPTENT(S) -

“3: April 1964 “Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General, Counsel

Warren Commission .
Subject:. Richard Thomas : GIBSON. Wee Y

"2, Attached to this menorandum ‘is the exact text.of our Teletype 7 no.
_89970,.dated'18 December 1963, which. contains: the report’ ‘of .a: intervie
With GIBSON held by a-U.S. “consular . officer® in: Paris. Th 2
disseminated to the White House,: -
Investigation, with a COPY to: ‘th

7 Apri 1964 “Memorandum for Mr... a Lee RANKIN, + General Counsel “@:

Warren Commission
Subject: Mohammed REGGAB re

"2, The CIA’ Station in Berlin has 5 reported ‘that. gontzary’ to his: promise,
_.REGGAB has not written since his return to Morocco, and apparently has not
come’ back.to Berlin. Knowledgeable sources which are. usually: reliable De
“state that, as of 10 March, REGGAB has not fulfilled the legal’ formalities
-- required of foreigners arriving: in that city. It.dis apparent} herefore,
that he has not returned to Berlin." |= °° ca oes :

P.C. Warren Commission

20° April 1964 andum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc a Bs
Subject: Report Pertaining to Allegations Concerning Anton: ; . . FBI
. ERDINGER. ; : i) -[DDP “4e -1997] ; . i.
"1. We have studied the report forwarded. by: your lette Lof 26 March °
1964. A review of CIA. fi és reflects: no- ‘pertinent data on e'iprincipals
involved. ; ; ; coe,
. "2, There is one report to the. ‘effect ‘that Guenther GRONA (tlentioned on
page 4 of the report) was ‘under ‘investigation/in 1963 byiWest-Gérman.
-authorities. -He was a journalist and corresponde _for an “Bast:
radio station. The. basis for, and the outcame of;:'the. ‘investiga
. not reflected in CIA files. However, in ‘'view:of the: peripheral ‘nature of
his involvement in the matter being considered; his activiti sare: ber. f
lieved to have little or no > bearing | on the investig ation." me ’
24 April 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. ‘Lee RANKIN, ‘Genera Mounsel etc. ; wie FBI Warren Commission
' Subject: lydia DIMYTRUK; Acquaintance of Marina 0 "ioe 4- -2088] . ; So

oy
at


13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT

1... Reference is made to the r report of: ‘Spec ‘dal Agent | Robert Pp... GEMBERLING
his communciation reported’ an interview

dated 30 November. 1963, ..
by the FBI of Mr. George OuHE. on (23. Nov ber’ 1963 5 in whieh Mr. BOUHE
t. .

-. referred to a ‘Lydia DIMYTRUK: of
an clated: with Marina.
"42, ‘The: files o

_ to O-aboves. 6 c6i¢

“28. April 1964
Russia.

‘1, Reference. ‘is “made to your memorandum dated.6 March’ 196 ;
above, file (S) -65-68530; in ‘which-you : “requested information: which would |
“tend to corroborate ‘or disprove. NOSENKO's: information ‘concertiing Lee:
" Harvey OSWALD. *..Our. files contain the following. information ‘from NOSENKO .
roderence! which may amplify or: ‘sontradict “the nfo: hation, twarded in .
‘reference: ..4:.  «' :

29 April 1964 Memorandum for Mr. 3. Lee RANKIN, Ge oral Counsel t

Subject: Photograph of Lee Harvey OSWALD. [ppp 4- -2160]

"1. As the result of a search of our graphics £41 : for pictures perti-
ment to the story of Lee Harvey .OSWALD's : sojourn, in: the: USSR; we. have
found the attached photograph (Attachment !A‘): of a group ‘Of: persons. stan-
dling near the Palace of Culture in’Minsk..’ ‘This photograph. ‘Wks taken. by an

American tourist in Minsk on or about 11 August..1961.°: Although the: persong-

in the photograph. are not identified in our. file: cwe, belie ‘on. the basis
of comparison with other Pictures that the secon ‘£

Lee Harvey OSWALD. |: =.

"3, It is worth noting: that’ the person ‘belie ved 0: be ‘swat ‘is. “wearing.
- a short-sleeved sport shirt of the same design:or pattern’ a§$:one worn by

; OSWALD in pictures taken of him in his apartment. in Minsk in- 1962. -Copies
of two.such photographs, which were found. among.“OSWALD's effects after his
arrest and forwarded to us by the Federal Bureau Investigation, are
attached for comparison purposes.

the viene is

(B)

“RBI

BI

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission
FBI :


13-00000

“once , claimed in. a letter to his. brother, Robe

8 May 1964.

11 May 196

_ Subject: Marina OSWALD's Notebook...” DP 42581]
"Attached herewith is information. from this: Agen yi" 6" eI y.
in Marina OSWALD's notebook, a copy of which was received: fromthe Federal
Bureau of Investigation under their communication dated 13 April 1964
Copies ‘of this attachment have been forwarded to. he ‘Federa eau’ of In-
vestigation. " ; ; * _ A ; -
4 CSCI-3/781,172 ‘Subject: Lee Harvey 09 D = Inte at aecisty ee FBI
Russia - Cuba. ; ae : me - : A ca The _
"2, In response to your communication dated 13° ‘Apria. 1964, “Fite number - a .
(S) 105-8255, subject as above, attached herewith is a “compilation of in- fo an aa

’ numbers relating to the Soviet. Union,. which were extracted f
: book identified as belonging to Marina ‘OSWALD

15 May 196

- DESCRIPTION OF F DOCUMENT :

| (B)

"4A Attachment At appears to substantitate. “OSWALD's present nh: Minsk at
least during the summer of 1961 and.to indicate that he. had-tontact: at - Le
least on one occasion with American tourists visiting. that city, as :

OSWALD

Memorandum ‘for Mr. Je “Lea RANKIN ,- : General Counsel

formation from the files of this Akency on names,-addresses,!and telephone
m-an address

4 Memorandum for Mr. J.- Lee RANKIN, General, ‘Counsel te:
Subject: Role of the Cuban Intelligence. Service. “in. “Processitie ‘Visa Appli-
gants; Reaction of that. Service to the Assassinati yn of Pres. id

"1. Within the very recent period. “this Agency: has estab d- contact

_ with a well-placed individual who has been in close. and prolgnged: contact

has queried him in detail on possible: contacts: between Lee H

with ranking officers of the Cuban Direccion General de Intelligencia ;
(Directorate General for Intelligence - DGI).., His “knowledge of DGI activi
ties, techniques, and personalities is ‘direct’ and. profound. ::This Agency
rvey OSWALD
and the DGI prior to the assassination of President Kennedy. | A report on
the a@nformation thus obtained . is attached to this. memoranduf. " om

2 FBI |

- RECIPIENT(S) -. t

. Warren ‘Commission
| FBI . . .
|

FBI, Warren Com-
mission

Warren Commission
FBI ¢


13-00000

19 May 1964. 7 Memorandum ‘for Mr. I. Lee. RANKIN, “General ‘Counsel ‘et

“7, Sassination Plot against President | Kennedy.

ae toe Reference’ ‘ts made’ ‘to paragraph’ 2. of your. emorandum ,”
125° 1964, ‘requesting that ‘the Commission be: furnished copies.
“tions. relative. to the assassination of Pre:

: 2, Innedistely ‘after the assassination’ the CIA’ Station ‘in
_. zerland, repor

..5 .:. Kennedy that. were made.by. Pfc Eugene B; DINKIN, U.S. Army,: ‘serial ‘number.

, RA-76710292, on 6 and 7 November 1963, “in Geneva while absent: without: leave

‘of PFC DINKIN's allegations." ~

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT, -

Subjects. ate e reeds of Pfc: Eugene B.- DINKIN ,: U. S. Amy, Relative | ‘tolAs~:
: ‘DDP A- 2534}

dated February’ "
.dissemina-

the Secret Service.: 7
ed allegations concerning a plot to: assassinat

from his unit, in Metz, France. Available ‘details of this charge, together

_ with information on its exploitation by Alex des’ FONTAINES, a-Time-Life
stringer in Geneva, were disseminated as OUT Teletype: message: ho. 85770,

on 29 “November 1963. This dissemination was sent:to the WhitéHouse,.
Department of State, and Federal Bureau of Investigation, witl a copy to
the’ ‘Secret Service. : .

"3, Since. the Geneva Station cooperated with the U. s.  Milataty
assembling information on this affair, and the:Military Attache: reported
through his channels,. the Commission may have already receive information

19 May 1964 . CSCI- 3/781, 386 - ‘Subject: Paul DINITREK (ake Pavel bem)

22 May 1964 Memorandum for’ Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, Genera ‘Counsé2 ete:

"L. Reference is nade to your communication of 1 May 1964 requesting ‘tra-

ces on Paul DIMITRIK (aka Pavel DYMITRUK) »

"2, The files of this Agency: contain: the “ foliawing' ‘pertinent nformation:
on one Pavel DYMITRUK, born 28 February 1924. Stariye- -Derend;, USSR, who
appears to be identical, with: Subject and his. lydia DYMIT

ee es

Subject: Anonymous Telephone Calls to United Statés ‘Embassy .in canberra,
Australia, Relative to Planned Assassination of President Kennedy.

ident. Kennedy’ that ere sent to

Attache in

Navy

Navy *

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission.” -

Navy .

ge
Warren Commission ~


13-00000 .

oo eae T refer again to. paragraph two: of. your: memorandum 7
1964, relative to disseminations to. _the Secre

“TOP.-SECTRET, later downgraded to..SECRET
' tion’ the previous day with an anonymous individu:

' vidual, while discussing several matters of intelligence. ‘intérest ,. ‘touched

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

ervice: ‘nade.

war ‘February.
y TAs :

"2... On 24 November 1964,. CIA received: from. the: Department. 9
copy of a cable from the Naval Attache Ci

self as a Polish chauffeur: for. the Soviet. Embassy of that .city:
on the possibility that the Soviet Government: had financed the ‘assassina-

tion of President Kennedy. Reference.was made in this. Caba rat the Teceipt.
of a similar. anonymous telephone. call on 1s Octobe: i :

"3. . Upon receipt of this cable from Navy” ‘CIA :

"4, The CIA Station in Canberra arranged for liscussion of the 5 eatis with
the Australian security service. In the! jopinion: of: the Austt lian quthord
ties, the caller was a crank. ee ee . ; .

27.May 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN; General Counsel ete. % | ce *

_ document from the Department of State."

Subject: Letter Accusing the Chinese Communi
tion of President Kennedy. : a

"1. Reference is made to. paragraph two of yo x enorandun dated. 2 Febru-
ary, requesting copies of disseminations relati
President Kennedy that. were sent to. the ‘Secr

"2. Shortly after the assassination the. ‘United's tes ‘Enbasily in § Stock= :
holm received a.letter, mailed on 25 November “1963 ,. which actused the .
Chinese Communist of plotting this act... -This information was: disseminated .
on 9 December to the White House,. Departmen Of State, Federgl: Bureau: of...
Investigation, with a copy to the Secret Service. «The. exact’
dissemination is attached. to this memorandum..*:)" - .

"3. In view of the fact that. this ‘letter was received at the
Embassy, the Commission may have already received it

+ RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commissign


13-00000

3 June 1964

= zenshipe Poe

' dn view of the fact that the Commission

Lk ae

3 June 1964

: Subject: ” Documents on Lee Harvey: ‘OSWALD: “Furn
2 ment, cane a

omy ncy:
“-May=1964 provide. some ‘additional detail’on: OSWALD.
_ “these. documents: parallels that. already available’ from other: spurces, and *
..¢ does’ not ‘contradict our previous.information, :« The documents
.. somewhat -OSWALD's. alleged occupation’ atthe Minsk ‘radio Plant
original Russi n terms. used | in Segsribing his: ob.

an A ‘significant ‘omission: from the. material

pr a
~ OSWALD allegedly wrote to the. Supreme Soviet wpquesting Soviet citi-

“9h 2° OSWALD signed a "receipt - in. 1960: for his Identity Dot

with Soviet practice. "

= DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT:

~ Memorandum - for J. Lee RANKIN, Genera’ ‘Counsel etc.
ed by. the, . Sovdes Govern

The ‘soviet documents ‘forwarded. to this” Agen

ument for. :
Stateless Persons, and a second receipt in 1962 for his'Identity™
Document-for Foreigners. The similarity of wording: of the receipts
“regarding his understanding of Soviet: residence and travél regula-
tions further supports our belief: that such regulations are identical
or nearly identical for bearers of either’ type: of identity. document.
This means that OSWALD should have obtained permission in July 1961
to travel to Moscow, but. as we know. from other cases, failure to ob-
tain travel permission is not uncommon and not: a serious toffense. -

:

“sing ular -

"c. The includsion of Marina' s ‘exit: “vis ap Yication

on Marina. «6. «

"d, The Soviet : translators. for. OSWALD!
to be. identical with persons altead:

eee e : “es

; ‘ ocuments! ‘are. betieved
ed to in OSWALD's ‘diary’ .

The format and 1 wording of subject, docune rs. a pear to be’ consistent

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, Ge ral: Counsel ete.

id/not requested infomation

WB)

P.Cs

_+ RECIPIENT(S) -

"Warren Commission :—

Warren Commission


13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT

_ Subject: George and Jeanne de ‘MOHRENSCHILDT

pei
Vailable.in. dh

1). Reference is made to your memorandun of I. March 1964
.. -information on George and. Jeanne’‘de MOHRENSCHILDT
. Files. Our ‘review shows that. the files. contain

and- the Office of Strategic Sérvices. .. “According: to: ae ‘those agen-
cies, George de MOHRENSCHILDT had been ‘considered: for. employment” in’ 1942,

but was not hired because he was. ‘alleged: to be’ a°Nazi espionage agent...’ No

information developed by CIA (or its: predecess rs)
_ tion of President Kennedy had established an ]
| SCHILDTs and Lee Harvey OSWALD or his family

“before the: assassina-:

"9, You may also wish to make inquiries at the: ‘Office of Naval Intelli-
gence; the Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligénce.,”. Department of ‘the Army;
-the. Department of State, and the Civil Service! .C
" departments also have information about. Georg de. MOHRENSCHILDT

5 “June 1964 ; Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General counsel ‘ete, |

Subject: Allegations Regarding Intelligence T aining School’ in Minsk, ;
“USSR. ; cer -[DDP 4- bene]

"1. Allegations of the existence ‘of a Sovie : ntetLigence gna/or sabotage
training school in Minsk, USSR, have. come-to.the attention éf the Agency:
from press reviews. “Also, there. had ‘been: an’ informal inquity from a mem-
ber of the Commission, Mr. DULLES, very recently: on this, detail..- I. take
this opportunity to furnish to the Commission ‘ithe formatida which, the;
Agency had on this topic.”

‘ding Soviet intelligence’ or. sabotage training ih Minsk sinc 1947.

5 June 1964 ‘CSCI- -3/781,543 — Subject: ° Lee Harvey. OSWALD. -

"1. As your Bureau is aware, the Clandestine Services is developing a
machine collation program to handle information ° the ‘Guba intelligence

he. de MOHREN--.

ommission bécause these. :
" : ov

"2, A careful review of: CIA ‘files has — ovhard info ation reger,|

(B)

P.C.

FBI

- RECIPIENT(S)

Warren Commission

FBI


13-00000

"= DESCRIPTION OF DOCIMENT (AB) > RECIPTENT(S) -

“and security services. “As. yet, the data bas 5
“sult (that: any’ search against. the program has a° very” "Yanited chance of sucé
-cess.. Nonetheless, a search was made using-those items of. ‘information whi¢h--
whichare known.-:relating to the two letters fron. Havana, ‘one dated 10 No-
vember 1963 and addressed to.-OSWALD, and .theother:.dated: 27 November. 1963

° ; the print- out listed ; 19° names , of which’ only two seemed to. ,
hola any interest... cA review of the files; ‘on. th i limiin:
~" leaving a sing e candidate. a

"3, “At the: same ‘time, a routine name ‘trace ha been: run in the main “index
-on.the name Mario del. Rosario Molina, the name. with: which the-27 November
1963 letter was Signed. There were no traces/on that name; but -informa-
- Rion | was. available. on two Persons with sonewhe sim dar. Tames. 6 we

10 June 1964 a ‘fenorandum for Mr. a ‘Lee "RANKIN, Genéral’ Counsel, etc;
Subject’: Information Concerning . Jack RUBY. C
“Associates. :

Spas ‘FBI Warren Commissign
Jack RUBENSTEIN) and His fo FBI

oe

"Le Reference is made to your memorandum of 19: May: 1964, fequesting that

this Agency’ furnish any information iniits files. relative tb Jack RUBY,

his activities, and his associates. Examination of CIA records ‘has failed
"to produce information on Jack RUBY or his activities. .We also have no in

dication that RUBY and Lee Harvey OSWALD ever knew-each other, were: asso-

ciated, or might have been connected in any mahne hatsoever.""_ honk!

2 ounsé1" etc. 4
re dent Kenhedy Sent to
a : (DDP 4- ~2988)

12 June 1964: ‘Memorandum for Mr. 3. Lee. RANKIN, - Gey
Subject: Letter Relative to Assassinatio (0:
‘United States Embassy in Costa’ Rica.’:

‘State |- Warren Commission

‘7 12. The information ‘given below,” and ‘the: attachment to th memorandun, .

are furnished in order to complete the Commission's. file on,crank letters a . 2:

generated by the assassination of President Kennedy... Since:the letter was ne _ 8
received by a United States Embassy the Commission may” hav ‘received. ‘this : :
~ information previously from the Department. of} tates te

"2. The United States Embassy in San Jose, costa Blea, in late Novenber



13-00000

29 June 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, G

“was part of a plot to kill all the presidents.iof

othe White House, the -Department of State,
Hegation. | It. was not sent. to. th

S30 This letter was adjudged to be the. work-of a
: document were passed to. the Government. of :Cost é in
tion on the writer of: ‘this document,” ‘who’ signed inself RODRIGO” Cc, hh

'. DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT = (A (B) : - RECIPIENT(S) -

1963. received a letter claiming that the assassination ‘of P esident Kenned
‘the free. world.” This un-
dated letter, portmarked 28 November- 1963, Heredia,’ Costa’ Rica, was ad-~!
dressed to Ambassador Raymond TELLES.

This: document. was. disseminated to,

ever been received.

nsel etc, ef BT “Warren Commission
Subject: Tavestigation of. Mlogation that. OSH Do was in T : ee le, | FBI ;
eee : Heo [DpP.4-3347] |

"yD, The reference memorandum [FBI Memorandum . dated 10. June: 1964] con-
tained a request that this Agency conduct: inquiries | yin: Tangier, Morocco,

_ to resolve certain allegations concerning ‘Lee Harvey: OSWALD... Our inquiries

have been completed and the results show that ‘ith

concerning
OSWALD's presence in Tangier has no basis in . _

30 June 1964 CSCI- -3/782, 058 Subjoctstneltigaiion of Attegtion that © cious |. RBIT FBI, Warren Com-

1 July 1964 — Memorandum ' for Mr. we ‘Lee: “RANKIN G

_ fact. Ydur representatives, Mr.. S, J. PAPICH; was. ‘Merbally ‘notified: 208.

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco. mission

"Reference is made to your menorandum, dated 10: Jui 64, requ esting this
Agency to conduct the necessary inquiries. to resolve allegations that Lee
Harvey O6WALD was in Tangier, Morocco. | The: i inguiries: were completed on
19 June 1964’ and the results show that the: allegations. have-no basis. in

the results and, at his suggestion, the: result /wene forwardéd,. by ‘memo:
randum, to the President's Commission. ‘on the Assassination of President
Kennedy. ‘A copy of that memorandum is attac or: your files - cand. for any.
additional action you may wish to fakes

ral Counsel. etc. pom Warren Commission —
Subject: Lee Harvey’ OSWALD's Arrival Time. in: Helsinki | on. 10. “October: 1959. aS ; ;
: ‘(opr 4- 3889]


13-00000

. vay.

“ne.

-. more circuitous flight from London, with a stop at Stockholm;
“or some other ‘city. Any additional infornation received wil: be forwarded am

: to you Promptly. a

2 aly. 1964

“ny, :

4 and “landing:
night)
- this Agency . familiar with the Helsinki. airport

- _ SSE OF OOM cae

In response ‘to your: ‘memorandum ‘of 25, “May. 1964, we have

“same: day. This is. based. on’: ‘the-judgement | of offi

We are presently attempting ° determine '4f OSWALD could have ‘taken. al
Copenhagen, _

“Memorandum for Mr. he ‘Lee RANKIN, ‘General counsel etc.

‘The following remarks: have been  recdntly attributed to doviet: Gonsal

Pavel Antonovich YATSKOV in Mexico City ‘regarding the subject.

"2,

'T met OSWALD here. He stormed into my. office and
wanted mé to introduce and recommend him to the Cubans..’-
He told. me that he had lived in the USSR. .I told him thet
I would have to check before I could. recommend him. He.
was. nervous and his hands trembled, iand he stormed out |

of my office. I don't believe that: a person as nervous: as
OSWALD, whose. hands frembled could faye. Ascurately

fired a” ‘rifle,' .

Our Mexican Station has checked its. “records for “the period OSWALD 7

was in Mexico: City and has advised-it is: quite possible ‘that ‘OSWALD -

though h

. "4,

Investigation." an oe: pS!

6 July 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

2 Ae

° that the'only direct flight from London to. Helsinki on 10 October 1989 Pind
"Finn Air flight 852 which arrived in Helsinki at 2333 (ll: 33 p.m.)s

. OSWALD had. taken this. flight, he..could not normally have cleared de etoas -
formalities :and Teached. the. Terni: Hotel: downtown: by 2400. (mid-
cers “in...

Subject: . “Lee Harvey. OSWALD. ’ rn : . {DDP 4- -34011]

had -talked with Valeriy.KOSTEKOV-when he actually ‘Had”spoken =
to YATSKOV; or that he. first: ‘spoke to: _XOSTIXOV. who turned Aid over ta his’
‘ superior: YATSKOV. ;

A copy of this menorandun has ‘been’ forwarded to the Federal Bureau of

~ (B)- * RECIPIENT(S) -

‘Warren Commission
FBI. ,

Warren Commission
FBI


13-00000

7 Subject: Statements Reportedly: Made. by George and’ Jeanne ‘de: ‘MOHRENS CHILDT
Concerning Lee Harvey. OSWALD and the Assas of -P -

ay ° The information furnished ‘below has been received -from
‘sable sources and. consists of: statements -reportedly: made'b
. , SCHILDTs concerning Lee Harvey OSWALD: and. the assassination

27 August

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT ~~

of-President

Kennedy.

“Say. Shor ly after the assassination’ of President -
- Kennedy, berrse and Jeanne ‘de MOHRENSCHILDT were.
among the guests attending a cocktail party in Haiti
«se. The de MOHRENSCHILDTs were asked if: there was '
any substance to the view expressed in certain foreign
periodicals such as L'Express, a left-wing Parisian:
weekly newspaper, that the Kennedy assassination was
a plot organized by Dallas: millionaires. '~ George de:
| MOPRENS CELDT said that. President Kennedy was : hated |
_by the Dallas elite, and:he felt that ‘it-was very: :
likely that certain reactionary elements in Dallas had.
Organized a plot to get rid of Kennedy and used a dis-
turbed person such as OSWALD to achieve their ends.
; Mrs. _ de MOHRENSCHILDT agreed fully with this thesis.

"3. A copy of this memorandum is 5 being forwarded to ‘the. rats a oo

1964 CSCI-316/00856-64 ‘Subject: Lee Harvey “OSWALD - raeémet Secu foe  EBI

rity, Russia - Cuba. Reference: Your Memorandum.. dated 28 July. 1964." “

"1. A review of the résults of ‘monitoring. Soviet foreign. b adcasts. at

the time when an interview with Lee Harvey OSWALD had apparently been -..”
taped was conducted with negative results. Therefore, it is’ assumed ;
that such a tape, ff broadcast at all, was ‘aired. over a tocal. USSR. facili-
ty for internal consumption. . .

"2. With respect to the same question, Yuriy NOSENKO_ was asked if any.
attempt had been made by the Soviets to exploit, OSWALD for. propaganda
purposes, such as Radio Moscow broadcasts, telecasts, or lectures.
NOSENKO teplied that. this had ‘not been done either in Moscow. or. in Minsk.

- 28°

A 8)

- RECIPIENT(S) --

FBI


13-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT = fA) BY RECTPIENT(S) -

-_ NOSENKO later reviewed this statement and confirmed ie.

~ NB: Reference document | is: FBI request to CIA ‘requesting “the latter to he
, identify, ‘bros cast. t by | OSWALD in. USSR Sonetine: before arly January, 1960 04)

‘Warren “Commission

28 August 1964. -° - Memorandum for Mere J. Lee: RANKIN , General Counsel ete. _
Se «Subject: ‘Konstantin. Petrovich SERGIEVSKY a . 7 {ppp 4- 4479)

"1, The: files’ of this ‘Agency ‘contain no identifiabte traces on Konstaritin
Petrovich SERGIEVSKY or on his sister. .

ma. We have no ‘information which would either confirm ‘or refute. stieges:
- tions that Lee Harvey OSWALD. made one or more visits to the p city of Gorky
in April and May 1960: or at any other time.

"3. The term “mokrym delam' which appears in “the | notes which SERGIEVSKY

_ brought with him.to the British. Embassy may. be translated ‘wet affairs' or
‘liquid affairs'. -It is an expression or jargon used by- the KGB. to refer
to activities involving kidnapping or asgassination. ve a SN :

(NB: "RANKIN asked for Agency comments concerning allegations of a Soviet
citizen,.Konstantin Petrovich SERGIEVSKY , who walked into the British
Embassy ‘in Moscow on 29 July. 1964. yo .

1 October 1964 - “Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel. etc. _ Sk. : 7 | Warren Commission,
* Subject: Joachim, JOESTEN oe ; a ; “ jpop 4e -5110} wo co ‘|. FBI, State, TENS:

"1. Attached are reproduced copies ‘of a set of German documents seized by
the U.S. authorities at the end of World War II. The documents concern

. Joachim. JOESTEN, author of Oswald:. Assassin or Fall Guy?, Marzani-§.Mune.. [°° 7° ee 7
sell Publishers, Inc., 1964, e captured documents in this: ‘set range in.|-. 0-0. - o .

‘ dates from July 1936 to November 1937 and contain the statement that
7 .. JOESTEN had been a member of the Communist Party of Germany since 1932. | So ae ;
~ You will note that the attention of the German security organs was direc- rn | . .

ted at JOESTEN as early as 1936. At thatitime the Communist Party. had beey
been outlawed in Germany and the German authorities apparently had begun
collecting information about JOESTEN:and his activities. .Their investiga-
tion. seems to have culminated in the Proposal for revocation : of his Ger-
et . :

'

se age


13-00000

_ "= DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT = - RECIPIENT(S) -

. “man. citizenship.

- {Comment - The assassination ‘of ‘President ‘Kennedy. “wa: he: subjett-of a book -
2 bY. Joachim JOBSTEN entitled, “OSWALD: - Assassin or Fall. Guy?
‘lished by Marzani. and” Munsell” Publishers, Inc. “of New York; :
:JOESTEN states that there is no question: in‘ his:mind ‘that. OSWALD. wa. "
“nor CIA agent.’ Marzani, a known: communist,” ‘was. co =: amphlet ; :
"Cuba Vs. CIA". published. in:1961. . JOESTEN. is: revealed in-a. “ch rman ‘Securit
"Police memorandum, dated November. 8;-1937, to have” ‘been. an ‘active nember. off)
“the German Communist Party (KPD). ‘since. May * "12 5°:1932¢: he “iss 7
Rist. Party m membership card (Mitgliedsbuch).:N é

‘Cited in "The Soviet and Communist Bloc Defamation Campai
Record - House, 28 September. 1965, PR. 25391-25

- 30-—
