104-10308-10190)

wverruyv ub Hl

ia WB 4B . ABO LALVE we as States of America

iEVeustauiars OUTGOING 545A

o " © Qt a
Charge: Classification Control: PREORTPY
Date: 28 MARCH 1963

re <1G i

Ret
Gero oe

40 i PORTS C

gl S68
SOb5 Disateud AA Prorcd [Ales
‘Arte pir TNFO(BERN) CITE Gv, VOCS DE S3 Sino

He aS * Cat in == => 2

: : 3} SE ei ae

FUED: 287152

REPORT CLASS: . SECRET NO FORFIGN DISSEM. (DEFTR HQS-RE DISSE
ABROAD)

(HQS INSERT FIELD SYMBOL AND SFRIAL NUMBER)

COUNTRY: CUBA, SSR

STIBJ 3... BACKGROUND TO OCTCBER. 1962. CUBAN DESTRUCTION. OF A

“U8. Ua2e

““DOTs OCTOBER 1962

PADAs MEXICO CITY. 25 MARCH 1963

APPR: 2 (REPORTORIAL ACCURACY)

SOMRCE: CUBAN WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN ClBAN GOVERBMENT
CIRCIES (B) FROM.AN OFFICIAL OF THE C'BAN COVERN-
MENT (F).

_ le, ‘(FIELD COMMENT: TWF CUBAN GOVTENMFNT OFFICIAL WAS

BREN AN INTIMATE ACQUAINTANCE OF SOURCT. FOR MANY YRARS. HE

HAS EXCELLENT WICH LEVFL CONTACTS THROUGHOUT THE CUBAN LEADER-

SHIP STRUCTIME AND IS INVERENTLY INA POSTTION TO NAVE ACOUTRED

\ . ¢
\ SECRET. - peeroouction: prom THis cory 1s

7 Classification PROHIGITED UNLESS “UNCLASSIFIED”.
FORM FS 413P~
nl adres mascaes to the Denarmert can be dred to pueh (anroriate tothe casfiaton of the mesa) without
ahead an ‘fezowna, Tyee by Pouch" after te address, omit the trai nomber ‘in envelope marked “For DC/T".

sofe

&/R


13-00000

Aid: SVB . SHO LALIB ou. a states of America

" OUTGOING

< D

Charge: Classification Control:
d i PAGE TWO Sates

THE INFORM'TION REPORTED BELOW. )

26° FIDFL CASTRO WAS PERSONALLY. RES"ONS IBIE FOR
THE SHOOTING DOWN OF AN AMPRICAN U-2 PLANE AT THE HEIGHT
OF THE OCTOBFR 62 CBAN CRISIS. CASTRO APPROACHED THE
SOVIFT COMMANDER OF A SAM AMPLACEMENT OR SA™ DETACHMENT

AND FARANGUED HIM ABOUT THE: * IMPOSSIBILITY" OF PERMITTING
UsSe PLANES TO PHOTOGRAPH CUBA. “THE SOVINT SUCCUMBFD TO)
CASTRO'S PERSUASIVENESS AND TOOK ACTION WHICH RESULTED IN |
THE SHOOTING DOWN OF A U-2 PLANE. WHEN HIGHER SOVIFT i

_ COMMANDERS LEARNED OF THIS ACTION, THEY WERE FURIOUS AND |
>THE SOVIET OFFICER WAS RETURNED TO THE SSR UNDER. ARREST.
Be. FIELD DISSEM:. NONE. 2° i a EHene

“END OF MESSAGE ©

‘ORIG: “MIDDATIGH ELMARD

‘s
Tt _E REPRODUCTION ‘FROM THIS COPY IS
Classification PROHIBITED UNLESS “UNCLASSIFIED”.
FORM FS 413°
3185

9 messages to the Department can be diverted to pouch (appropriate to the classification of the message) without
“Troe "By Pouch” after the aduress, omit the ‘serial sumer, and pouch in emelope marked “For DG/T".

