# 104-10310-10103

## Page 1

104-10310-10103

(170,

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TO! AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTELL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADORESS

DATE

John Walker, SA/DDO

INITIALS

W

$

A/58/2000

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

IKFORMATION

PREFRIE ROPLY

ECIEEZZATION

Remarkes

Eceives in 5 07 5-5

John -

Since Shep is on leave, I am sending

you the FBI docs for 3rd agency

coordination. Please hanfle in sane

manner as before.

Steve! t

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SEMER

• FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO

Steve Hunt, Review Staff

UNCLASSIFIED

Use previous editiens

CONFIDESTIAL

1-67

DATE

25 May

SECRET

(40)

Zil:sse/LA

---

## Page 2

13-90000

Steve

diciiid.

#'5"

5/30/26

Citia dia de a mi decaniato

clinnace fo paccage te sse.

кид крі

Rori 4 dizionato - 2 ii Rilanda

stany colich Twere cent

sfit

Paliatin

divis

i Nepil il furtoi

tifor in 102 abach

Rigaldo. 3

x4696

Тртс

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SAC, Miami (103-171)

REG. 12k

Director,

"FBE (105-47657) -7

8/7/62

...*

•1

— We.sce

ROLANDO L. CUBELA & SECEDES

IS - CUSA

Eliduriet 7/39/64.

Vith reference to infomation set forth on page tro,

paragraph one, possibility encts that the alleged plan to 111

Castro hes some coincction with the nas presently under

investigation by you effice under the caption of "Plans of

Cuban Endles to Assassinate Selccied Cuban Government Leaders,"

you file. 105-9055.

Keep-Durezu currently advisce of any idditional

pertinent information receivca concerning subject's activities

and his comectien titl plan lo assassinaie Cascro.

VIN: CL C

(5)

1 • 105-131629 (Plars of Exiles to Assassinate Cuban Leaders)

NOTE:

Subject is Cuban Government official tho has indicated

destre to reject. CIA apparently made contact tith his in

Europe thru Cuban

exile in ley York who is long tine friend of

Miami. Inforrant.

liant informant mas visited by the Cuban exile

who confided thet he had been acting as contect man betreen

CIA 2nd

subject.

According to cuban exile, subject coplaine

to him that. CIA refuses to furnish hin with certain equirzent

with which he could tzke some effective action in Cuba and that

CIA furnishes hin tith bully unserviceble equipnent rather thas

compact equipnent with which he could possibly clininate Castro.

to kill -51

According to Cuban exile there is sone plan hinder

would figure.

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Cosper

Collahan

Conrod

"Loach

0105

van.

Roo:

•5 =

AUG 1'

....

!?. .:

SEE CONTINUANCE OF NOTE PAGE THO

KAILFO 25

Abs- 716.

C.O:22.N

. I

---

