# 104-10140-10092

## Page 1

104-10140-10092

INTERNAL USE ONLY

• COMADENTIAL

Background Yo ony MCo is it

RETURN TO GIA

Do Nor Reproduce

A

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Tuesday - 24 May 1977

Page 1

Understanding

15. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Jack Boese, Department of

Justice Civil Division, who is handling the AT&T case, referenced my

discussion with Irwin Goldbloom, Deputy Assistant Attorney General,

Civil Division, on the Rule XI problem as it relates to the Harrington

case. In response to his request, I said I would see what I could.

do in providing a citation to committee reports in the incident.

16. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Talked further with Bob

Turner, staff of Senator Robert Griffin (R., Mich.), about the proposed

amendment to the ACDA authorization bill to ensure that the amendment

will not be construed to require disclosure of sensitive intelligence

sources and methods.

17. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Steve Fallis, staff of the

House Committee on Assassination Samed to report that Chairman

Louis Stokes (D., Ohio) would like to turn over in his office directly to

either George Cary or his designee for review and determination undei

DCID 1/14, the background investigation reports on Committee staffers by

the FBI. We will make the appointment directly with Chairman Stokes'

personal office, 225-7032.

03 18. (Confidential - DEM) BRIEFING Accompanied Ron Istes,

Jand Evvy Vidal, DDO, to a briefing of Ed Levine,

Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, on thel

5 Levine

had asked for the briefing in connection with Senator Clifford Case's (R., N. J.)

upcoming trip to Belgium. At the end of the one and one-half hour briefing,

Levine called the Senator's office to find out his exact itinerary sọ that we

could cable it to the Station and Levine was informed the Senator had changed

his mind and decided not to take the trip.

Later in the day, Levine told me he decided to prepare a report for

the Committee records anyway and asked me a few more questions about the

Station, I agreed to provide answers.

19. (Unclassified - DEM) LIAISON Received from Stan Taylor, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, a list of Brigham Young students who

would be attending the scheduled 27 May lecture at the CIA on the Agency.

Taylor also gave me a resume of his friend who was interested in

employment at the Agency.

1 9658

CONFIDENTIAL

217V

INTERNAL 118E DAri

---

