# 104-10219-10073

## Page 1

104-10219-10073]

BANE SCHI

SCORET

• &U6ü 1665

MEMORAiDUA FOR: Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attentiois

1I. S. J. Papich

SUBJECT:

BernoR Perguson MITCHELL

Willian Vanilton MARTIN

Miscallaneous Information Concerning

1.

Roforeace is made to your connunication,

bearing the avove caption, dated 1 May 1964, with

reference to an intorview of Di. roacoa suITE to

obtain additional identifying data regarding "ALlA"

(your 1110 62-106214).

Dr. Malte was located in Trioste and inter-

viaved by one of our field representativos.

Attachad

la referred to as the subject except in specitio instances

In which raforence is nade theroin to "Alla."

The Mational Security Agency da aiso being

provided a copy of

the above

interviow.

FOR THE DEPUTY DINBCTOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: Juries In ELat

Janes Angletor

CSCI-316/05060-65

Attachnent

Prepared in CI/SIG -

Distrihution:

2 - FBI

1 - C/CI

3 - C1/STG (1-STG 356: 1-Mr. Kergel; 1- Mr. Gottschling)

(durry)

1 = CI/REA

SECRET

:.

---

## Page 2

SCORET

Attachment to CSCI-316/05060-65

DI. Roscoe Beryl WHITE

Interview 25 October 1965

d.

Sabject arrived in Moscow during the early part

of November 1963 on a ten month exchange fellowship

arranged between the National Academy of Sciences and

the soviet Academy of Sciences.

Subjact was assignod to

the Labodev Physica Institute in Moscow and the major

portion of his life while in Moscow revolved around his

work at the Institute or various individuals net through

the Institute.

Subject ate lunch in the Institute lunch

room or cafateria and usually at about the sane time each

day, sonetine between 1:00 and 1:30.

Approximately two

wooks after he had arrived at the Institute, subject and

his colloague,

DI. George REMINGER, who was at the

Institute on a similar ton month exchango fallowship.

were approached by Vlajimit Anatolovic SOKOLOVSKIY

While waiting in the cafotoria line.

SOKOLOVSKIY, who

Idontified himself as an American,

said that he had hoard

that thoy wore in the Instituto and wantad to noot them.

During

tie larst conversation Subject clains that

SoRotoSKIY told then that he was in face Millian danilton

MARTIN and went on to explain sono of the superficial de

talla surrounding his defection to the Soviot Union in

1960.

MARTIN told them that if thoy did not consider him

too tainted he would velcano the opportunity of talking

to some Anericans.

He felt that thore were many facets

of his experiances while in the Soviet Union which he would

like to talk about but which he could not discuss with his

Sovlet friends.

aither on this occasion or later. MARTIN

mentioned that Bernon KITCHELL, who had defocted with MARTIS,

was living in Leningrid.

Approximately a week later, Subject not MARTIN agala

in the lunch room.

MIRTIN reported

that following his first

encounter with Subject and Renninger he had been called into

the Party office at the Instituto.

They apologized to hin

for not having warned him in advance that Subject and

Renninger ware being assigned to the Institute, since they

were certain that Subject would have wanted to avold then.

They told XARTIN that it was perfectly permissible for him

to talk to them, but that he should definitely not reveal his

SECRET

..is in

---

## Page 3

true leantity to tion not should no give thon his address in

Moscod sinco thore was the posslbility lust trey had ucen

sont to tro soviet Union to assassinate hli.

Quito natural-

ly they also wastad to snow whit Yartin had discussod vie

subject und ronniagar. do a Jonaral culo, Stujoct sna

MARTIN in the lunci roas overy week or too for the entlio

period that be vas in Moscow.

On cercall occasions it

appeared that Martly dould avold talking to sujoct. Based

on MARTIN's actions, Subjoct aszused enla ususlly dependei

on mo was present in the lunch ros.

Subjece adsed at tils

point that their discusnions with MARTIN NCIe always in

English.

HIRTIE sade It cofinitoly clear to Subject trat

ho was

Intarosted in gutting out of the soviat Unlon. le

desciliad life la the Uss? as a constant qana vich the

soviet officials.

MinTll folt that he has only been ablo

to hosp his head

above vator whils thore becauso of iis.

knowledge of Soviet lat.

1e axplainod to subject that no

had dovoted a great dual of tina atudyiar soviet lan and

had used his knouledgo to protoct hiasoll. ine soviets

vere froquently at a logs when confrontod "ith quatations

from tholt om laws in total conflict with notions nich

they vero trying to liposa on inkali.

subject was once

askod to vrico & lottor to MARIll's parente asting thea to

put prassura on the soviets and the Preas to halp In ol

talning his talease.

6. MARTIN also describad in great dotall to sabject

Life 1a general vithin tie soviet Union and what tho avar

ajo soviot citizen must faca every day.

It vas obtious tu

subject that rAftin bad boon greatly disillusloned follo

Ing ads arrival in the IsSk whan de found a socduty totally

different fron mat ha had anticipatod prior to his departure

from the United Stated.

The Soviets had exarted considar

able pressuro on sunject to participato in various anti-u.3.

radlo prograns or to vrita anti-u.s.

articles. After auc:

discussion bacis and forth, MARTI: ayread to wilte sonothing

If they would pronise to publis: it vichout editing.

de

wrote unat ha considerad a vary objactive coparison of life

S00041

2

---

## Page 4

so..int

in the USSR and that in the u.s.

After having submitted

•this article he was never approached again on this topic.

5. Regular contacts between Bubject; REUNINGER and

MARTIN continued in the lunch room with general conversations

such as inosa noted above until December or early January

1964. At this point, MARTIN asked Subject if no or RENNINGER

would go to the U.S. Embasay to ask them if there were any

way in which they could assiat him in leaving the soviot

• Union legally or otherwisa.

Subjock noted that RENNINGER

had already contacted the U.S. Ambassy following the firat

meeting with MARTIN to report on their convorsations with

him and the fact that ne was in Moscow.

6.

Also at about tho same time, probably early January,

Subject was standiny

in the lunch room lino (Subject always

referrod to it an the lunch room ratho: than a cafeteria)

when ho saw MARTIN togothor with an attractive young girl

about 20 or 21 yoars of ago.

Thoy stopped to chat for&

moment and MARTIN Introduced Alla Aleksandrovna KOZLOVA.

Subjoct euphasizod that this was ontlroly casual and that

chols convarsation at this meeting lasted for only a faw

minates.

Subject

In the lunch room and mentioned that

A Pou days or possibly a week later alla had

MARTIN saw

found him quite a handsomo Individual.

MARTIN identioned

this only in passing and in no way,

as far as subjoct was

concerned, attempted to force "Alla" on Subject.

Subject

was equally impressed with "Alla" and during the following

fow days made several Inguirios among his Soviet colloaques

in the Institute.

No one had. anything particular to say

about her other than that she was rather active socially and

had many frlenda in the Institute.

At this point Subject

did not know where she worked at the Institute.

7.

somotime during the latter part of January 1964

Subject had his first date with

"Alla."

Subject could not

recall exactly how this was arranged, but he believes that

he met her in the lunch room and asked her to go on a troika

Ilde with him.

This was followed by five or six other dates

with her over the next seven or eight weeks.

They went to a

film once, the Bolshoi onco, the opera once, and restaurants

on two or three occasions.

After a while Subject noticed that she was particularly

Interested in his Soviet friends and other contacts in the

Lal

F..

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Soviet Union.

For example, on the eveniny tiey attandod

the Bolshol, Subjact noticod his friond willian (J111)

PARRIS, an American exchange student at the Yoscos State

University.

subject has known his at Priociton University.

Subjoct said, "On, there 13 111l."

Sho Inrodiately said.

"What did you sa? about SOkOLOVSrly?". In other words, she

knew perfectly well that SOXOLOVSKIY and AlllIan MARTIN

vere one and the sane.

She was ouviously eavarrassed and

trled without success

to cover up her blunder.. MARTIN

Lator told Subject that "Alla" had callod 11r

that evening

to toll hin of nar blunder.

Sio also onco asked Subject

If no wore really going to return to the United States.

This could, of course, be interpreted as a defaction piten.

Subject feels that it was more of a casual personal resark.

9.

According to subject, "Alla" seenad to him to ba

much too filendly, while

at the sme time not sincarely

Erlendly.

In PoDIuary, Subject's suspicions had mounted

to a point where he dacided to ask his Soviet colleague in

the Institute, Ilya ROYZIl (phonatic), 1f ho

could check

with some of his contacts to detamine 18 "Alla" was In

Lact boing usod against him for sone purpose.

Subject

clalned that he already know at this point trough convorea

Clons with nie Soviet colleaques that ROYkI: could check

without bringing it to anyone's actontion.

Shortly after

wardo, ROYZIN returned to Subjoet with the advice to stop

mooing hor, he cautioned Subject that he ahould not nentloa

to anyone that he nad talked to him and cartainly not to say

anyting.

Subjact claing that he stopped dating her after

this point, but did occasionally seo her in the lunch roar.

After Subject stopped soeing hor shu called ain at iis

hotel every to or threa days. At no point diù MArTIN

really puni Subject on continuing the relationship.

10.

Subjoct described their

relatlonahip.as perfectly

natural for tro young paople Interested in each other.

They seldon discussed anything of importance and nover

discussed his work at the Institute.

Subject went here

with her to her apartment on two separate occasions.

Once

she asked him to spend the night with her, but he indicated

that he should get back to his notel.

Subtact described her

as possibly a sit more forward sexually than otnerg brat he

had set, but that their rolationship was perfectly noral

and cartainly nothing that could be used against hin since

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

ho was a single man.

The apartient was actually her nother's,

a one room apartment with

an alcove for the bed and a snall

kitchen.

Subject never met for mother and is not sure it

hor father lived in the apartent witi the mother.

Subject

does recall that her nothor had had too husbande althougn no

ald not know if the lirat one had aled or if they had been

alvorced.

Subject heard from someone

that her father vorked

for the iGB.

subject could provids absolutely no furthe

Information

on this point.

'Alla" never soemod to be pus

1ng tre

relationship even

though she did seen curious

about

some of Subject's frionds.

Once une mentioned to Subject

that they should not be sean together in the lunch room since

this night be a risk fur her.

Subject last saw "Alla" alone just before ho left

the Soviet Union.

lie was downtown one day

and net her by

chance.

They stopped for colfea

and chatted a while.

The

only thing of any significance noted was that sho had been

dismissed fron the laboder Institute and wan thon working

for the Ministry of Porolgn Affalro.

During the sumer.

Subject and ISNINGER again visited Moscon for a book (15

20 July 1965).

Thay drovo fron Trieste to Prague and then

on into loacor via traiu.

Arrangements vere made through

Inturist.

They viaited

the Lobadev Instituto for a day.

as wall as friands. in Moscow.

Nothing

occurred on this

vistt

es ary particular nota.

Since his roturn, Sunject has

recolved a brief lottor from "Alla" in elamentary Corman,

stating simply that she had heard that he nad boen in Mosco

end that she was sorry that they had not seen each other.

The retum address. Indicated that she had moved:

Hoskwa N- 36

Protsofusnaja Ul. 15

Korpus 1

Kwartira 10

12.

Sabject's responses to the questions contained

In the "Personality Data Debriefing Guide"

producad the

following additional information:

No Dasio Biographic Data

(1) Name:' Alla Aleksandrovna KOZLOVA.

SECRET

""5"

---

## Page 7

4-g0001

SECRET

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

Nicknanos:

DPOB:

lone other than "Alla."

Subject way not certain but

believss that sio was worn in Moncou

and had alwoys lived thore.

He did

not know hor exact dace of birth. lie.

estinated that it must have been

about

19410

Citizenship:

Soviet.

Iden Documents:

Subject novor saw any

of hor cocurants.

Father:

As notad above, Alla's mother

had had two husbands.

He assumes that one

was Alla's father.

Her father was also

supposedly. working for the nüs, accord-

Ing to MARTI:.

Mothar: Subject naver not har.

Susjuct

only inew that Alla lived with

hor notior

in the apartment in which he had vialtod.

Siblingae.

Subject .does not think that

she has any siblings.

Spouses Hover married.

Educations • Subjoct knas that she had had

some spaciallied training altar completing

high school, but does not ballove that she

avor attendad the Univeralty.

Religions

Athedat.

Sha wore a amall gold

cross given to her by der grandmother,

but,

Subjoct oxplained, that this had no religi

ous meaning.

Languajes

Russian (native)•

She told

Subject once that she planned to learn

Based on the blef note in German

recently received from jer, she apparently

has made some proyress.

She also spoke a

very littlo English.

Subject does not know

if she had ever studied English or where

she might have learned 1e.

Implorent:

Subject did

not know if she

ever worked anywhore prior to joining

the Labadev Institute. Subject did not

know her exact position there, though she

was in the First Section or the Party Office.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

knon he not her just prior to his

departure,

she told him that she had

trangferred to the Ministry of Foreign

Affaira.

(14)

Arrests: No:0 know.

ROY&IX once

mentloned that she had once seen caugbt

taking noney from the Instituto.

subjeet

had boen told that situations such as

this were fraquently used to antiat the

cooperation of employees for reporting on

tellos employess, etc.

B. Physical Description

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

Apparant age:

20-21

weights

ca. 100 1bs.

Height: ca. 5° 4°

Ethnic background:

Obviously slavic.

High check bones and black hair.

Build:

slight.

Complexion, Pair.

Hales

Black.

Subject addad that she does

dyo her hair and the natural color could be

anytning:

Eyes:

light colored, either blue or green.

Nose: anall

round

Ilpa: Mediun

Teeth

liven and in good condition.

Clothes:

For a Russian yirl, cortainly

average:

Subject felt that ahe

dressed

above her income. lie had no

evidenca, horever. '

Health:

Subject a very athletic person

and always in excollent healt.

A verY

bright and lively person.

Special features: None.

c. Curriculua Vitae

Subjoct could provide nothing supplementing that

already given

above.

D.

Personal and Private Data

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

(1)

(2)

• (3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

Address:

koscow.

Subject sald that he has

provided the address previously. He also

has it listed in his diary which he loft

with ils mother when he was nons last

Chiistmas See above for current address.

Telsphones

Sho had a tolephone in tho

apartiont. Subject does not rocald the

number.

Apartnant, See

above.

Subject considered

the apartment nice by soviet standards.

Subject was not sure if the father lived

there.

Servants: None.

Meals:

She usually ate lunch at the Lebedav

Institute.

Dantirt:

Subject rocalla that she once went to

the dentiat while he was in "loscol. He could

not recall any dotalla.

Clube:

Subject was a member of the Xongarol

(8)

(9)

(10)

(And)

(12)

(13)

Gorkiy.ub.

This was a Club prinarily for

membors of the Konsomol whore they had

avallable many of the popular currant westorn

racords.

Sports:

siling, swimming and skating.

Theater:

Enjoyed the theater.

Vacation:

Every sumnot. Arranged through

the Institute..

Hobbles.

American

Personal frionds.

Jazze

information.."

Subject had no specific

Subject does not beiieve that she

(d4)

(15) .

(16)

Alcohol: Normal.

Casual Sex:

See comment abova.

Transportation: Usually tool: taxis, metro or

the bus.

No Car.

(17)

Financial:

According to Subject, she seaned

to spand nonoy faster than sho earned it.

E. Political Data

SEORET

1220-12

12/024

---

## Page 10

EBRET

Member of the Konsomol. Subject did not kno

1f she held any spacial position, although 53e

did mention once that she had introduced gone

one at a aceting, indicating that poasibly she

held sone sort of position.

P. Job datas lothing other than already noted above.

G. Miscellaneous:

Travel:

Sho once visited Poland with a student

group.

13.

In returning to the topic of MARTIN and Subject"s

contact with him, Subject reportad that MARTIN usually did

most of the talking.

ile discussed lito in the Soviot Union and

froquently nis attempta to got a divorce.

(When Subject was in

Moscow In July he leamed that MARrIll had finally roceived his

divorco.)

MARTIN once told Subjact that he was permitted to

recoLve

Time and life magazines so lont as he agrood not

to

show than to anyone.

Sub fact and RENTINGER once referred to

the allogations MARTIN and MITCHELL

wera honosexuals.

MARTIN

atated emphatically that this was not true.

H. Bald that ho had

some sor probloms, but that he was certainly not a honosemal.

With rogard to his defection, MARTIN said that he had contactad

comeone pelor to his defection.

Subject understood that no

money was Involved and that ArTIl had not. been an in-place agent.

iri.

r"..

"."..

SCORET

---

