# 104-10111-10008

## Page 1

104-10111-10008

scting Chlofa Counter Inthlliferce Staff

Deputy Direotor of Seculty (Imestigatlons and Support)

14 detotra 1X60.

DDS/35 +

1o. Rotarsics la mia la your nemeanta dated 6 Cotober 1960

walch rogueated this office to tato appropalato cotion lo attorpt to.

Intercopt any lottera sent fron Cuba to the ostonalblo parento of tho

tues persons presantly ingleoned by Cusan authoritice.

porants of faniel I talley that sadrass as llotod an his birth

certificate lel

to provie that any snil attrassed to calcifis al

fannaylvant, ransomnts have bian mode

7o Mennisy Jo

marla vili to redirectod to a poot offion tox ostallished und

serviced by this offics st miladelabla, lemo, leanla.

tho tanas of his careda have tora added as coalirasaces of tha

backalozed 1170 billioes origially cotablisbed by this offico for

CArsall at Enstchertor, lew Iorke Tale addacos appers as his

currone rouidanoe address on his simra licans am othar doounte

€105.

3o Fastaco and Clodya PANTURI, 2955 Rodera ivera, Cloroland,

chis, aro llatod as parents on the birth cartifierto carried fry

Bustoco 1, DARRUIT.

It haa boen dotnrained that thero Is no Endora

Avarus In Clevoland,

i though there in an Indora Rond. Fowavor, house

numbers on Priora Road un only From 16500 to 11320-

auto bean complated to puride that ay anil adscaood to chassure it

Exilera tverue or indora Rosd will be Intercepted and dalivored to a

represectative of this offloa.

Danteen 'o crivers license and other cosentation list 3915

coltand burning lalttore, largland an his crorent sirass.

spartant has boon latod In the nas of sotaunt at this salesg

which can ba ratained only until such tira so the mangerent obtains

a sermont inaut sador a long tom lease it tay be esprotad that:

the apartront will to remed suring the next nonth, at which tire

arrragesenta will to made to fored my nail for Farmur or his.

parents to a pose offles bor establiahod and surrleed by this offico

at saltiara, irylunde.

Dey Craf

A la Cist

Ch. COR

Ch. SRD

Cil. far.

Br.

Ch. Eup.

Br.

Coak 13-

D:sh SB3

1.15 Ting

Control Dest

SEDU

1387.2

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Concaring talior end Aun INtor, the roilonal parenta of

Ederand k. TARMask, hio buch exultionto antieated thog tonidod at 54

claurille Avenue,.

Cecrong :N13204100045

There la no nuates 54 on

Glonvilla AT-rea

In Eastonio

To alto la occupied by apartment houser,

none of which is mustered 5ho

'mangasanta have beau rade to provide

that any mall addrusad to altait or bie menta at Glorille ivema

will to rodireotod to a rout office to catablishod and servicod l

thia offico at lostong

Tha naireno 509 "ast 17 Chrvot, dea Jork O1t7n agposes on

TARAN XIS docusentation as Sta curent alican.

A treat apartent

hao toor rented in IUS 'S may at this addross throurh 31 Cotober

2060, and mall addroaded to him do his rationel parento vill lo

accoutore

te 1t la coctdod that the agnessant slauld to antalad

after 31 Sotoles 1251,

tula cirica mold bo provided with na allo

mant nuscos to cover additional rontal payron, undon with do

appraziatoly one hundred and forty dollara (31400) per santi.

rotentlon of tha apitant in Falloki's nose 1e condidarod inneces

sat, this offica will anngo a fonaritre procedue to re direct

nry ball to a yost offica los aù lou fork chiy, lich ravice face your

oftico.

%. In resposa to your Inquiry aa to what diopeltion would

norally bo unda of foralin mail which la undelivrablo becaure of an

Ircorract aMends, you are sortead that loond post africo stutiona

vill sals so attempt. to sotoraino if there la a local correct adireas

Lus the edisaanno by chockare local directories, so thay vill do with

mall of comatlo origin

Poralen mall which Is locorrotly addreasod

Is considerod "acolivorable", and l0 raturned to tha country of

origin, with no ntiont so cotermine the correos andrease

In accoriance with the request contaired in pazarach tro of

you refereneed innocumus, the following post offica actrese has com

established for jour 0aos

Fustaco R, MaPult, fre

Most Carico Rosl

Bryland

Tata addrodo will En carriod on a ence woelly tasis, until

Don your offles Indlesting tond serricing ahould

to Increased.

Your cities will to sottfied upon the a colnt of say

all tend this at ories body or tarush and se the armierenta

sit Boston, los Joel, Clovoland,

Jos F1242:0:0e.

10

43816

13305062067

43372-

LAVERY: rIO

14 Oct 60

Victor R. inita

---

