# 104-10129-10134

## Page 1

104-10129-10134

TO

1

3

5

6

SEN'

WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND

UNd ASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

INITIALS/

and Yaynot

lempsy

OM

4 XCRET

DATE

10-26

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

you want thee

Chuked any fareker?

Do Not Reproduce

Backgreund Use Onl

RETURNTO CIA

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

RS

IFIDENTIAL

DATE

18k5

SECRET

FORM NO.

•APR 35

UNCLASSIFLED

237

Replacm Furin 30-4

which may Le used.

(40)

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955-0-942531

DATE

ANSMITTAL S6IS 10/1210

TO:

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

i allie

REMARKS:.

Thanks.

FROM:

ROOM NO.

Fits 53.241

BUILDING

REPLACES FORM 36-0

WHICH MAY DE USED.

EXTENSION

# OPO: 1957-0-439445

---

## Page 2

31.00l00er 1950

MEWORANDUM FOR: Chiof, Security Basaarch Stall

5 ROM

M. D.

Stevens

SUBJECT

: American Defecrore

astorence lo made to a vertal request to you trem the DC/OS 1o710

formation rejaiding asy.Americar.citisens.h

have deleciod to

ESE USSR

Red China, or othor Saillito countries duriny the past cighteen moscha

oiher than Bernon F. MITCHELL and Willar HiMARTIN.

defector? razarding whom Mix. OISPKA of the Stato Dop

Vifica alresdy has information (i.e.

Robert kaward-wEs

ICe L2ry0y

ALD M576 BOTO BICCIANONELS 320511516

and Jo Oph DUTKANICZ, MS 10723)

ocurisy filos rofect tore the suo acte of the attachad mamoraada as

cuditional American citara

who haro defected to the Soviets or 2511

Satellites during the past olghteen monther

Several of the above referred to coloctor hayo benep i niore toke

Fioriors LeO NORTHRUP. 48923, "39s siail employed or this seancy.

from May 1951 10 Way 1955.

A more detailoi summary man that inclue

in the attachod gromp cas boon prepared on him.

Robert Edward WEDSTER. EE-18852, and Nicholas PETRULLI, LE-

19439,

more sabjector OO/C regaoats on 29 May 1959 and 15 June 1939.

rospectlygly, with a view to beir bainy dabrialed upon their returns Iro

visite

thoir volte

With colorence to Nicholas PETRULL, It 1o

notad that hia soasla

Michael Thomas SCHRALLE

• SSD 84238. 1090599T CLA COrarI 350-

ployos, Imho ono antigned to

Panans unda: Projet FJ

HOPSTUL) and also took part in PaSUCCess.

De dubriaíod da ho chose la rotarn lo privato employmani.

adriaod during an LaD interrior In Slay 1953

Polygreep? into

SCHRALLI Do bora and rajged on Long Islaadi and subaroaaty

employed in vardone places on Long laland. From TObra April 1950.

poly gRaph.

10440

al cha dies of his autor

Tom.

PETSULLI was emplayed an a cheat most sorker in Tallay Sireara

---

## Page 3

G En timo bo laf tho 3. 3. 10r Raonia la 1939 and bio tiro brocharo lira es 100

Lave lontrod the Identifles ol CLA personnal at the IG1S Coniar.

MILAO A. MORGAM sas seen el inioni lo Socurity sa lhar on 27 March 101%

1/OA reguantoda ennes on dio, in connacion sill dio contemplated mo ly lhe

Cabo Doat/WH los parpadea al contaciand debrielingo.

Rometer.

AH cancellod

8:= regaro! 3E al 5 May 1959.

Damarcao

ader

and angigos hiz is

ched in

icho

reporiod MIXON :o Q-30

Lo bald ho

smo day

C-z offleer

Seetsees.).

wasto do perora

In tho psol elghtoon montho havo beon la eludod

lechalcally ze delectoro to Sevdet

200a09

ames cach

delostes

Ible ramor

M. D. Staten

09/52932D5:dj

---

