# 104-10100-10228

## Page 1

104-10100-10228

0116:

UN::

15°

R.

1. MAUBIEN

oca

7451

17.950

CLASSIF ED MESSAGE

INS. INDEX

8B CRET,

I FIÉ I GO FILE NO.

BOOK MESSAGE AS BLOU

fo.'e: DIPESTOR

r01i

RAGE 1.0F 7

ROUTING

5

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

• F1/P 4, FI/INT &, li, AF 4, EE 4,

4, So/12, CoS, HR/OPS, RF, TR

DOUPTUR

CITE DIR

76391

MEXI

ADDI

ПОШТО ВКІНУВ (ПОРОШИ ІН ПАНТЕ)

1. THE NOITH SRA ROUTE NAVAL CONVOY: NAVAL ALKANITE COMMISURD

ON INO IN LONG DANCE S- CLASS TOUPEDO ATTACI SURRARIARS, A HAVAI

ZANCT, TIe OCTAN SABCIS TUGS, THO MLOATINO HORISTONE, AND THO MIN

IN: 8i LIATTED ILDC IOMONE SUYPORT FOR INDONINTAN POLICINE;

(MABITS TIL 80758T SLOC NOR CONNIST CHIRA 18 LILALY TO TROVIDE

BIGHITICAIT OR ETPECTIVE ECONOMIC AID FOR INDOUBLA IN SOLVING

PROBLES APT TO ARISE FROM ITS SEVERAICE O ICOOIC ELATION ITH

MLATBIA. THEY MAT, BOVIVER, OTTEE SOME SOURONIC ASSISTAYCE AS A

POLITICAL GESTURE. / /

3. IMPACT OF GRAIN SHORTAGES IN UBER: MOBCOT IS TAKINA MIESE TO

LESSE ITS INFECT O THE ECONON AND ERASBURN DIE POPULATION THAT

GOOUDINATINE

REPRODUCTION IN OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICELS PROMIENED

---

## Page 2

EX°

1..

T..

C INDEX

C NO INDEX

*: POLE IN ES FILE DO.

• SC

LIFERRES

LOUTINE

10

INFO

CITE DER 76391

TRASIZES AIL MALIA DASTA TO ATOID LIXE PAILUNKS IN TEX TUTTA: AN

FURUALLY LABOR JASES CAMPAION II SUPPORE UN CHINENCHNY I PRAN YOR

MANKING TARAN BARINES" THROUGH EATINBIVE DES OF CARICAT

FINE AD IRANO I TINE TAT. ON WARIES MATS

RAVE BURN AROUNCID, AND TAS YOUNG COMMUINT IRAOUR IN TO GUARD

INES AD 11:000

A. HURLICAL FLORA BATUKRE CUBA: ALTHODIE DAMIGE ABASEMITA

A STILL FATATIVE, AGRICULTUL AND TRANNPORTATION APPANENTLY

BUILD FAR JOES THAN INDOSTIE AND TEE ILITAR.

3. CHINES OVERTURES TO JAPAN: JOB OVIR A TRAR FRIPING HAB

ERRA ACTIVELY EXPLORING THB POSBIELJJTLES FOR EXPANDED NON-BLOC TRADE,

AND ITS LATEST OVIRTURBS TO UNOFTICIAL BUT INFLUSITIAL JAPANIEN

VISITORS MAY BE PART OF THIS IFFORT. PROPOSALS FOR INCHEAKED TRADE

HAV BIKI ACCOIPANIID BY FUSIVE PUBLICITY FOR MOVES TO IMPROV

FIZATICHS ACROBS THE BOARD. HOWEVER, THE LIMITED POTENTIAL OF TH

CHINA MARKET MAKES IT ELIKKLY THAT TRADE WITH PRIPING WILL IMMIN A

NSGLIGIBLK SHARE OF JAPAN'S TOTAL TRADE.

6. VINES OF FETISIN DIPLOMATS AI COMUNIST CHINA: (PIAY

DISCITES A COUNTET LECOVERINE VEIY SLOULY TRON GRAVE LOGIONIC PROU

COQRBIMATINE OFFICERS

DECEABLU

AOTHENTICATINA

BECRET

DEFICER

ALECRECION DA OTHERIN THE ESUING DELICE IS PRONUBITED

---

## Page 3

ORIG :

Ued:"

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

BECAST

I.SO INDEX

LE FILE IN CS FIRE AO.

PAGE 3 OF T

B3-48

ROUTING

2

3

FOM: DIRECTOR

DEFERRES

POITINE

iNFO

-3-

cirE siR 76391

VIORS PIOPLE KRAIN IN A STATE CY "BICHND APATHY" DIMPIT INCREAT

POLITICAL INDOCTRINATION, AND VROES LRADRES VILL PROBABLY SECONE NONS

NOD. // (000)

7. CONTINUED KUNDER ON XINIT VOILD CONUNIST NETTING: ME

KHNUCHEY BAS NOT FIX IN TEE CAPITAL BINCE LA SIPEN, AND IB

EPORTED TO HAVE AKKH UNDI IN TALTA, VARRE EN OFTEN NINTE MONRICA

GUSTS. ICON HAN NOT STATED A FORITION QN CALLO BY FORNICH COUNTAT

PANTIE FOR A MITTING, SUT 18 MAKING CLEAR THAT ANY LISTING VILE EN TO

CONK TIE CINE, NOT TO THY TO FIND A TAY TO LIVE WITH TE.

8. SOYIIT CHALKINGS TO VISTIEN ACCESS KIGETS IN HELIN:

TRICE VITT US AND BRITISH CONYOYS ON TEL ENHLIN AUTOBANN APPRATE TO

I AIN AT DIVING TE TESTINI POUSES INTO XIGOTIATIONE ON BOTH

ACCIES PIOCIDUISS AND TAX BROADER CURSTION ON THE STATUS ON URTIN

FONCES II ZST HITLIN. MDECOU PAREUAILY INTRIDE TO MILITAIN CLOSE

CONTROL OVIE TERSE HARAESIENTE IN ORDER TO AVOID IRUXPARANLE DARACIS

TO THE SITTITE ATIOSPERER. IT APPRARS, HOUSER, TO ER OPERATINE ON TI

ASSUMPION THAT US AND UX ALSO MATE AN INTENST IN PIBERIVINO THIE

ATTONSIE AND THAT THIS ATTORDS IT GERATIE LATITUDR JOR MANEUVIRE TO

DIA DE IRET DITO A IT HOUND OF SUNLIN TALKE.

RELEARNS OFFICIA

10 18

1. 10583T

REPRODUCTION DY OTMER THAN THE ISSUME OFFICE IS PROMIBITEORA

---

## Page 4

IBA

UNII

CAl:

-D INDIS

EM IN. DIRECTOR

I DEFER?!"

ROUTIN

INFO :

CITE DIR 7639/

D. ALENRIA MOROCCO, PONTINO ALOR MEE URORENTURO ANARY NOCEE

ENTURIO ALONRIA AND MOROCCO IS LILY TO CONTINUR AND MAY SVIN SAMÁND TO

JENY POINTS FADIO INCUTLATICE, TALKE DO MAN MAVI ENIN DiN

succiatel,

RESTORE CONSIST, MOTIVER, DESAR TO MANY AN ALL-ONT MAD, ARD NESTERE

TRALZI MAS THE ESSONACES TO MACH ONE. MI MOROCCAN ANT, MOMSVES, IB

BATURE ORONMIZED, TRAINED AND ROUIPPED TRAVI TI ALCARTARS, ALTIDUE TIE

LATTER HAVE NEATLY TVICT AS MANY MEN UNDER ARES. MINTIER ON HOT AN LOCON

FICU IN LACH SOON, THI SUSPICION WITH VHICH LACE GOVINMINT NICAIDE TE

OTTE VIL ES DERPENED, AND TACH IS LIKELY TO LOOK FOR OPPORTUNITIES TO

ENCOURAG SUEVERSION A DISSINONC IN THE OTHE'S TARITO.

10.

SOMALL REPUBLIC. /CONALI CITICIALS SAY THET HAVE OBTAIND AR

SR0

ME ION WORTH OF MILITARY ASSISTANCS FROM THS 0881.

TESTIN

PORA COUNTRIES NIA VILL RECONSIDER. AND VERY POSSIBLY VITHDRAN, THEIR

FANS TO AID THE SONALI ARMY. WORD OF THIS DIVILOPNKIT CONKS AT A TIM

WEEN SOMAL: RELATIONS WITH ETHIOPIA ARE ACAIN DITERIORATING AS A RESULT

ON KEY ENCIDENTS ESTWEEN SOMALIS IN ETHIOPIA'S OGADEN REGION AND TAK

ITHIOPIAN AUTHORIBS. A BORDER CLASA OCCURIED ON 11 AND 12 OCTOR,

FOLLOWED BY MOTING IN THE SOMALI CAPITAL./!

11. CONCO: TRUITH PARLINNENT DISMIRNED, THE MADOULA CABINET HAS

arrelaine erracie

Races th

2232 4:

B3CAB3

DREROOLATION DO OTHER THAN THERE

---

## Page 5

PAGE 50F ?

01.5957:

8

SCRET

1212

76311

#CO THR FOCUS FOR WIDERIAD DISSATISPACTION WITH CORRUPT, IN TICIENT

ADITHISTRATION AND CHAOIC ECONOMIC DIVFICULTIES. CONGO LADOR

ONGANIZATYONS "" NOTES RECALLINC THE ROLE SUCH GROUPS PLAYED IN

OVITE MOVING, TIE CONGO BRAZZAWILL; GOVERNINT TWO MONTHS AGO, AL

CALLING FOR THE LSTABLISHIIHT OF A COVINMENT OF "PIELIC SAFETY"

COMPOED OF "FOKEST AND RERPONSIELZ MET " THEIS IVIDENTLY IS BOUS

VELING IN TIL CONTINEIT THAT ADOULA IS NOT TOUCF INOUCH TO DIAL VITH

THE SITUATION, AND THIER ARE REPORTS THAT BOMB OF HIS CABINET COLLACELE

MAT TO TADE OVER FROTHiS ADILA LEFT RIW YOUK THIS WIKK TO RETURN

12 BOOTH FISTAN: THE DIEN ERCIS CONTINUES TO TAKE

PISSIVE HASURES AGAINST POTENTIAL OPPONENTS. THERE ARE ALBO

VUKTIRE SIGHS THAT TIE REGINA 18 PILAFRINE TO FACE A LONG PERIOD OP

STAND HIATIONS WITH THE US. "OINT JS VIETRANIEE COUTERTNBUURICY

OPREATIONE RONSVRE ARE CONTINIINÜ WITHOUT SERIOUS INTERIPTION. I1

LI, ITALIAN POLITICAL &: TUAT:ON ON IVE UF SOCIALIST CONCIESE: THR

DOCLALIST PASTE SOMERSE OF 15.2 OCTOBER WILL PROBARLY AUTHORIZE PARTY

CHNE LINNY TO NSCOTLATE WITH THE CHRISTIAN DEIDCRATS FOR DIMICT SOCIALIST

AINCPICIPATIOS IN A HEY CHITIR LEPT COVENT.

I OBSTACLE TO THE

10137

MAN HE KILL

---

## Page 6

IS NO MOON

;. М: скі ТО

p'8il.

ROU:.NE

INf:;

CiTE DiR

76398

NO BUS A CON

MOTT, FOREVER, VILL EE PORATOARLI

ALTIRUCE MEHNI 'B AUTOMORIRT PACTION BARRS LIKELY TO HAVE A

MUSORITY AT TIE OUTACOS, DIMINION VITIN TIL PACTION MAY DIVELOP

BUING INNY 'S MIGOTIATIONS AFFIN THE COUGHISA QUIN THE THR FOR

OCELISORATION VITH TIL OTIER PARTIES, NATIONAL SCURONIC PRICY 18

LINTLY TO E TIE NOET CITICAL ISSUE.

14. AUSTATA: MARRINCHÁBING ACRIMONY BETVERY AUSTRTA•& TOO

INJOR PANTE IN SOCIALISTE AND TET PEOPLES PALTY --THIATIS TO BIAL

UP THE COALITION WHICH HAS GOVERIED THR COUNTEY SINCE 1945. A 1EW

SOCIALIST COALITION WITH THE BHALL RIGITIST PAN-CERIAN LIBERAL PARTY

WOULD PROBABLY BE LESS STABLI THAN M PESENT GOVERNINT AND MIGIT

BRING A BIVITAL OF THE SHARP POLITICAL ANTHOSITIRS WHICH IN THE PILAR

HRA ABILIND IN TIONCE ESTVIIN THE SOCIALISTS AND THIR FIRENT

COALITION PARTNERS.

15. CANADA ERPARATIST ACTATION TN THE PREDO INANTLY FINCH-

SPRAKINO PROVINCE OF QUIBBC CONTINUES TO GROT AND COULD JONG A BABIC

CHANGE IN QUIBIC'S ECONOMIC AND POL:TICAL ERLATIONSHIP WITH THE PROBAL

GOVERNT IN OTTAWA.

ALTHOSTS ONLI A SI MINORITY OF THENCE-CARADIANS COADORE TER RECITT

ESCOS RATES TIERS

- Анти

18C3BI1

CHON BIOTHER

ENUMS SSUNG OFICE S

---

## Page 7

EASIE VESTAGE

SECEL!

do. o=l.:02

"..i

iNto

CITE DIR

76391

VIOLINCE OR PANTICIPATE IN ANT ON THE SEVERAL MOVINENTS ERIKING

TO SETABLISH AN INDXPENDRNT QUEBEC, MANY IMPORTANT I: TELLECTUAL

AND POLITICAL LIANERS AIT ON RECORD AB MATTING A SUESTANTIALY

GITATER DEGITE OI AUTORORY AND EQUALITY THAN TIBY VEIL NOT IXISTE

JOB CAMARA'& SECOND LANCEST PHOT: ICE.

IND 20 188A6

---

