ro4-t0769-40048]
aa

CO unctasstrito

oO  ARTEPMAL
USE OBLY

(CO conrioenttat (2 SECRET.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ~

ROM: Erp /DEP

FM. GB - 12

= CURREN,,.P,OUCH

REGEIV

ne. 235

COMMENTS (Member each comment to show fom whem
fe whom. Drow a line ecross column after warn comment)

TO: {Oficwr deuigration, room nember, ond art
building ofncen’s
wecanto | rorwaxoen
©

RID/AN
GA--50

ACTION COPE ATEACHED
TO: ACTION ADDRESSEE

1. This report has not been
integrated into the CS :
record systeu. i

RID/MIS
aB--34

2. If you feel it should be
classified into a CS file,

¢
z

onsite

re Ae aed ey Skene

Ci CONFIDENTIAL

please indicate file oum-
wer (and other necessary =:
processing) end forvard to |
+ - RID/AN, Room GA--50. :

CS File Number

nooxe: ves] wo]

Ge ees yes, indicate names.)

3. If this report does not
require processing into
the CS Records system you
way destroy it after nec-
essary action has been

completed. Do not return

R:

oO INTERNAI
USE Ont!

() UnCLASSIFIE
slesnsconeen’



SECRET

IMFORMATION REPORT COVER SHEET

157 |

i : FROM: [eogiand, London/LcetPit . [oerjoes i
CASE OFFICER: Aaron c, Lactnestaa ACA. 8 February 1968 |
REPORTS: OFFICER! Horam ¢, surstzapeN FEB 15 Res

BELEASING OFFICER! Adrian B. wastori77)

DISTRIBUTION:

a
vrvonie enone

SUP DATA: FF aera

‘Bubject 5 Frertvietes of David Graben ‘HeCenna (ubets)
Sourcet (Resoxe) At Bee

* Mote. te Headquarters: I¢ 1s suggested that this report
eH naraaas . : be disseminated in the menorandus
2. nen format because of che lintted
% . tfeetent customer interest.

Pa

GRO RET


: {
FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

OF SOUECE Ae Congictaty ratarin A Unnsdy matin GC featy eufatiin, Dy tie ommily mbetta, & Pt oie,
to cnarces of dential beomay wt heya, rgedee of ther empaont.. A Diuhiicy camel be iedend (igzied te wanted @

1 Content and aa _
Fringe rap ey efear bndaasdon’ puoreen, 3h Prcctaby toe, Pesaly wan.  Deubtht Sy Praahhy

SEC 4 E C/NO AIRLIGN DISSEM
‘ COM

SPORT HO. OEP; 288
suancr Pnctivities of David Graham McCanns bare oF aoRT 1
(Dubois)
CaN H

: fe
Early November 1967 a i
mUACE

DAN ACO, 22 Deceuber 1967

Tee 1b CREVRUTDD renen, EEN GAN Aad See Sven oo aioe Soe

fouect A former Marzist intellectual who continues to maintain close association
within radical aad leftist circles, Source's reporting has been generally

reliable in the past. He obtained thia information from Ahmad Cora

Borehin, an official of the Pan Afircantet Congress (PAC), who talked

with Subject in Cairo in early Novesber 1967,

jl
|

1, ‘David Graham McCanns (Dubois), son of Hre, Shirley Crahem Dubois,
ie vorting fo Cairo from the North-American service of Radio Cairo
and for the Egyptian Gazette, These twe Jobs keep him extremely
busy; however, he expressed some doubt algut the longevity of his
Radiq Cairo job, He felt that iis servieea there vould end if the
station's broadcasting were reduced aa part of President Nasir’a
general achene of relaxing tensions with the West.

2, Anwad*Gora Ebrahin said that McCann cayld not be described ae
Btaunchly pro-Chinese in ais polittca} sympathies, inasmuch as both
he and his wother — wio also resides in Cairo — are etrongly
attachad to the Kast German governmont,

Stay iad

inane oe ett comtetenreeineinaasiareetea sirhan ren int

