104-10308-10303 \

SECRET
Job # 70-540
File # None
Volumes: 1 (Soft file)

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD .
SUBJECT: Ministry of Interior A/3 Folder
(Background Studies of Cuban Ops)

1. Description:
Non-official research material.
2, ‘Findings:
a. DBF 95904 Datéd 8 Dec 61
Sent to Secret Service, I§NS, State Dept. Security,
and CIA, Stated that I§NS Office in Honolulu was requested by
IGNS Reghonal Office in San Pedro, Calif 4 Dec 61 to place lookout

notice on Aldo Pedro MARGOLLES Daenas. FBI Honolulu office said

MARGOLLES is an of Chief of National Police in Cuba, and that
MARGOLLES reportedly was attempting to enter the U.S. to meet with
CASTRO agents to assassinate President John Kennedy.
b. WAVE 0793 (IN 13094) Dated 18 Jan 62
WAVE advised it had photos of MARGOLLES and Emilio
ARAGONES and would attempt to develop further information on the
assassination plot.
c. UPFGA 3134 Dated 23 Jan 1962
Forwarded to Hqs. from JMWAVE photos and bio data
on MARGOLLES and ARAGONES.


d. DIRECTOR 38056 (QUT 94877) Dated 27 Jan 62

To LA Stations and Bases concerning plot by MARGOLLES
Bnd ARAGONES. Requested, apart from this alleged plot, any info.
Yelating to security of target of continuing interest and should
be cabled priority or higher precedence according to circumstances.

©, Memo WAS 50/7 Dated 29 Jan 1962 to Regional

Conmissioner from District Director, Wash., D.C.

To Regional Intelligence Officer giving information
on Raul DIAZ Arguelles, reportedly trained in Czech. to be head
of political police of Cuba, had reportedly taken refuge in
Brazilian Embassy Havana which appears to be cover-up to carry on
secret activity. DIAZ reportedly attended school in U.S. for several
years (believed to be military school in Georgia). Is a graduate
of University of Havana. Has previously directed assassinations from
base in Mexico. His father reported to live in Miami. Uncle by
same name, living in Guba (at that time) is graduate of U.S. Naval
Academy. Raul Jaime DIAZ Argulles y Garcia (201-269882) is (1962)
head of DII (Dept. of Technical Investigation of the DIER} Was
responsible for assassinations during Batista regime, is a known
terrorist, and is capable of use of explosive bombs and automatic
weapons. Is believed to have directed assassinations in the past
from somewhere in Mexico. Good friend of Rolando CUBELA.

f£,; MEXT 0092 (IN 26086) Dated 10 Feb 62

Mexi Immigration records show MARGOLLES and ARAGONES


put, Gti

sought political asylum Mexican Embassy Havana mid-1957. Both
arrived Mexico City by air 27 June 57 as political refugees from

Batista regime.

i

g. Memo For The Secret Service Fro

Dated 13 February 1962
Gives a summary of information on Raul DIAZ Arguelles.

States that DIAZ is poorly regarded although he has a position of
great influence in the DTI. He is (62) reportedly working with

former U.S. gangsters who were deported from the U.S, and is

also affiliated with the narcotics racket. Is believed to be in complete

charge of "any activity as contemplated by Aldo Pedro MARGOLLES-Duenas,

which involved a plot to assassinate the President of the United
States."

h. UFGA 3302 dated 16 Feb 62

JMWAVE advised Hqs. of information on DIAZ, MARGOLLES

and ARAGONES that it had sent to U.S. Secret Service Miami, Fla.

i. CSCI_3/769,904 Dated 26 March 1962

CIA provided U.S. Secret Service information on

MARGOLLES and ARAGONES. Also sent to FBI and I§NS.

j. Unofficial Memo to Mr. Alfred Cox from Ernest Aragon

Undated

States ARAGONES believed to be General Coordinator
of the National 26th of July Movement and National Chief of CASTRO's
Militia. Is one of CASTRD! s right hand men and accompanies CASTRO
in all public appearances. ARAGONES is coordinator of alleged plot.

Both have fanatical tendencies.

Ue


k. UBGA_15107 Dated 8 April 1964

JMNAVE forwarded to Hgs. FI Target Personality Study
of Aldo Pedro MARGOLLES Duenas.

Attachments: a/s above LAD/JFK Task Force
