wr

4

av,
aad

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD : ; at oe
Uy

SUBJECT: Preliminary Debriefing Report on ‘AMPANIC-7 Oo jPunl %
E eG Oy,
Activities in Cuba : *eopfe of
? : ioe

1. The substance of this preliminary report covers debriefing sessions
held with AMPANIC-7 from 7 through 15 Noveniber 1960. Both Mr. Pekich and ‘the
undersigned participated in these debriefing periods... The pertinent aspects
of these debriefing Bessions are summarized into four specific categories:

a. AMPANIC-7's operational activities in Cuba from his initial.
arrival in Cuba 5 August until his departure 5 November 1960. :

‘. Internal assets developed in. Cuba for future operational,

use.

c. Problems encountered by A«? while opsrating in Cuba.

8. Projected future assignment in Cuba.

2. Mr. Jemes Pekich, who was AMPANIC-7's case officer during his initial
subject on

training in Washington,. ves contacted by phone from Hii

7 Wovember. Subject reported that he had arrived in the U. S. by boat 5. Hov.
and was plaming to leave that efternoon by plane for Washington. A room wes
pooked at the Washington Hotel in anticipation of A-7's arrival thet evening.
At approximately 1600 hours, A-T called Mr: Pekich on the agent. phone from. the
Washington airport to announce his arrival and was directed to go to the hotel,
where subject was ‘subsequently contacted. by Hr. Pekich end the undersigned.

3. Upon contacting A-7 at the hotel, it was clearly evident that he was
in a highly emotional state which partly stems from his recent escape from
Cuts Ta his initial emotional outburst, A-7 stated that ve had not lived up

to our_commitments to support his activities in Culoa; that he didn't like the
dea of considering himsel? as ‘being expendable; that. he was not. sure why we
sent him to Cuba in the first plece if we had no intentions to support his
activities inside the coumtry. In short, A-7 felt we- let him down com
pletely and that he wes fortunate in escaping without losing his life.

A?ter Mr. Pekich sueceeded fa quieting dow A-7 following this initiel ..
outburst, A-7 was first asked to describe how he managed to get out of Cuba
without utilizing our channels to effect this exfiltration. :



f
!
i

: Bscape Story 22 eggs Peart a Tah

ae : ° i f
A-7 stated that on, ee he had sent an urgent nessege
to his Hava contact (aiGRe-1))informing hin thet his situation yas
precarious and that he must get out of Cuba es.soon as possible. Ac~-
cording to “A-7 his Agency.contact’ was unable to provide any definite
assurence that his deperture from Cube could be.expedited. He.then

attempted to lay on uni: to this end with first
his operational contact, land later his mother-in-
law introduced A-T to a a Pay atrist Jin Havana, who
offered to assist him in getting out of Cu OT the éourse of the |

take shape,

a plastic.06,&

A 6 ovember a negro
drove go A-7's safehouse
and took him to-—m.—owr mouse -socaten onyUth Street 23-25}in Marianeo.
On the morning of 2 November at 1100 hours, ‘ved at the
Negro's house and told A-7 that he pianned Lee or Key West
Florida 5 November and would arrange to smuggle A-7 out of Cuba by.

-hiding him in the motor room of his yacht. Arrangements were made

between the principals for A-7 tg visit the yacht 4 November to in-
Spect his proposed hiding plate on the yacht. In the interim period,
A-7 stated that he began to suspect that he may have fallen into a
trap and told the Negro that he was returning to the U. 8. to bring
Tony VARONA back with him ito Cuba.’ A-7 felt this was a good girmick:

to use in the even lanned. to turn him over to_the G-2, 06
After inspecting his & on the yacht,. A-7 (| 3
didn't like the idea of hiding in the motor room and sugges ae

he swim out to the boat, where he could-be - ‘That
night (4 November) A-7 stayed at the home had a
“house close to the beach at Senta Meria del TE Bott

25 Kilometers from Havana. On 5 Hovember at 0530 hours, A-7 began
i in rough, choppy waters and was finally sighted by
yacht, here he was taken on board the vessel. . (A-7

Ss le was, completely exhausted when he was picked up by the
vessel).
ot nae
acht sonra’ piloted by| reached
Key > FLO: 5 Hovetber at U:45 hourss—z= ‘to slip avay

during the refueling of the yacht before the custom officials arrived
and immediately took off for Miami. Upon reaching Miami, A-7 went

directly to his wife's home. reunion with his family. In query~
ing A-7 further on psf ease to leave Cuba without any

tacles p: x path by the G06, A-7 stated that
told-him that he refeived official a roval for this trip- -
Racy

2 stolen vessel from his yacht club, (Casino Espanol) i
Havana, which was bei him by American authorities i
Key West. Moreover, 1d A-7 that he plenned to leave the



Po .) Prior to his return to Cuba,

WIA" )(worth about $25,000) in Key WEst, Florida, which he ho; to 10 pot
Sar ale at.some, future date.. (It would appear tha’ afraid

Bhat all such vessels as-his would subs: be nati the Castro

planned to stay at the West

Drive ee Island,) Miemi - Tel: (PL

a ee to debrief A-7.-on his operational activities in ‘Cuba were
somewhat futile in this initial meeting in view of his uisettled’ emotional
state. His primary concern appeared to be his wife and his rather strained
relationship with his in-laws, who were now residing in Miami. In this con-
nection, it should be pointed out that this emotional state appeared to stem,
in part, from his inherent suspicions that his wife (21 years of age and rel- -
atively attractive) was being unfaithful to him. All indications are, however,
that A-7 has no real basis for these suspicions; other’ than those conjured up
in his own mind. In any case, he requested if it might not be possible to wire-
tap. his wife's house in Miami, so. that -he could have daily reports on her activi-
ties. ‘While no prémises were made, A-7 was assured we would attempt to look
into this possibility, once we-had more definite information tliat there were
some grounds for his suspicions. (Note: Subsequent discussions vith Security
Office revealed that a wire-tap of A-7's house was a major project. in itself
and impossible to accomplish at this time without tieing up considerable
personnel.) A-7 was later told this after we assured him that his suspicions
were groundless where his wife. was concerned.

5. Following this initial meeting with A-7, it was apparent to both -
Mr. Pekich and the undersigned that:time would be needed to restore agent's
confidence in our capability to support his efforts in any future projected
assignment in the field. Moreover, A-7's emotional state, which appears to
stem from his problems with his in-laws and his concern about leaving his wife
alone, must be fully resolved before attempting to dispatch him again.

6... In later debriefing session held from 8 to 15 November with A-7,
considerable more light was thrown on the nature and scope of his operational
activities in Cuba. As previously indicated in paragraph 1 of this report,
A-7's activities are summarized as follows: 1

ae AMPANTO“T Operational Activities in Cuba:

In line with his projected mission to organize resistance groups

in Havana and Pinar del Rio for mounting sabotage operations against .

key _target installations and assasination of prominent Cuban Commmist

members in the Castro entourage, A-7 appears to have made some progress

in this direction from the time he arrived in Cuba in early August 1960

to nis subsequent exfiltration 5 November, Upon arrival in Havana,

A-7 began a series of meetings ‘with leaders of the OA, Triple-A and MDC

with a view to establishing some degree of rapport in the furtherance
? of his own_personal objéctives. It is significant to note that. in 2
a@ period of approximately 5 weeks, A-7 sade contact with over 42 indi-
viduals, who represented various anti-Cestro groups operating in the
Havana and Pinar del Rio areas. A-7 frankly admitted that he hed spread
himself out too thin in this respect and that in many cases he should -

SECRET



have employed cut-outs instead of attempting to contact certain
individuels himself. Individual meetings were also held by A-7 with |
AMPANIC-5 And AMRUING-1 with a view to establishing
some degr Yapport and coordination of activities in the area.

In this connection, A-7 cleims he turned over a number of his assets

over to AMPANIC-5, prior to his movement to the ESCAMBRAY, where he
was subsequently. picked up by G-2.

b. Internal Assets Developed in Cuba for Future Operational Use:

In attempting to sift out specific assets developed by A~7 during

- his activities in Havana, three of the more prominent individuals with
whom A-7 wes in direct contéet should ve oes
0

(2) owner of, the Giato-Mert)and to-Centro )
A-T us or pl the .
selection of suitable LZ's an Sin both Pinar del Rio
and Oriente provinces, location of safehouses in Havana end
use of his garages for storage of arms and military equipment
which A-7 anticipated would be dispatched-to him, ‘

» (2) a lewyer by. profession, who has wilimite
con Ss in ear ‘io and who was working oie with A-7

Fee to form a guerrilla group in the Sierra de los oreanodie

also selected to handle the propaganda for the "Cuba Libre" group
peing organized by A-7 inside Cuba. ‘
a Cuban national who had served
in tne r a S sugnt. in the Escambrays against Patis
forces0] ———_—s Plaimed he had a-force of 150 men at his disposal
anning to use them in a guerrilla action against Castro
forees in the Pinar del Rio area. Moreover, once proper materiel
support in the form of arms and other military equipment wes made
available to him by A-7, he felt he could marshal over a thousand
men in this area. ‘

: of
h) In addition to tne ove assets, A-7° indicated, that sefee)

imown to him
rendered him considerable asSistance in moving sécurely about my
1

in the course of his operational contacts. In the. case of AMGRES:
A-7 highly praised his abilities as a highly capable Case officer;
and he feared for his personal safety. He suggested that ange ER8-1o|
should be brought back to the U.S. for a rest period, ‘pefore 6-2

_ Picked him up. s _

(5) Finelly, AMPUG-1 who was trained in sabotage techniques in the
U.S. and was later assigned to A-7, was listed by A-7 as an asset, .
who could be channéléa@“into more specific operations, once available
materiel was forthcoming. He felt, however,.that he and AMPUG-1

were at considerable odds on’certain aspects of conducting operatiox



Cp TE lp
in Havana, but felt he could resolve these differences upon
his own return. ee Berner ec riiias B

c. Problems Encountered by A-7 while Cperating in Cuba:

Some of the more significant problems encountered by A-7
during the course of his operations in Havana ere as follows:

(1) “Security: . In this connection, A-7 stated that despite
the disguise given him, he had to be constantly on the alert
nae - from the danger of being picked up by G-2 or Castro police
2¢ ‘i during the course of his numerous operational contacts. He
: ' sited several examples where he ‘believed he was under sur-
veillance by the opposition and subsequently succeeded in alind-
ing this surveillance, He complained that bis disguise, (hair-
piece: and mstache) rapidly deteriorated in the Havana climate
_and asa consequence he was forced to abandon this disguise tows
‘the latter part of his stay in Havana. Similarly, he was forced
to change his quarters continually, by moving from one safehouse
ache to another as a security precaution, since -he felt that it was
in generally known in Cuban circles that he was operating in the
Havana area, end thet he was. probably already under the sur-
veillance of Castro. security forces.

' . (2) .. Materiel & : In the course of thése debriefing
sessions, one of A-7's chief complaints was lespite his

a urgent messages sent through his cut-out’ (AN to the. Statio

aaa that arms and other military equipment werd Sorely needed by'

his groups in Havana and Pinar del Rio, no action was taken to
implement his requests. As a result, A-7 felt he was losing fac
with his followers and this was one of the primary factors for
returning to the States to discuss this aspect with Headquarters

(3) Need for Direct Coummication: A-7 stated thet without the
services of a wt operator who could be in direct communication
with us, he is fully convinced that any subsequent return to Cub
in an operational capacity would be ineffectual. Hence, this
would be one of the conditions laid on us.that when he returned,
a W/T operator would be essigned to him personally. :

7. Projected Future Assignment of A-7 in Cuba: Predicated on the assum
tion that A-7 will be sent back to Cuba. in the relatively near future, both
Mssrs. Pekichand-Petems;~feel that his most significant contribution can be
made in the Pinar del Rio area, where he appears to have known assets in. the
hills. This, however, does got preclude A-7 from also operating in Havana in
developing sabatoge operations with AMPUG-1, whom we assume will cooperate =
with A-7 despite their differences in how these operations should be conducte
Moreover, should the AMYUM.complex decide to move into other provinces of
Cuba where military action is to take place, ‘A-7 would appear to be the logic

SEpper


“choice in taking over the operations in this area against. Castro, targets.’
In any case, a decision has been reached that A-7 should not be dispatched
without a trained w/t operator who can be relied on to work closely on: \
operations with A-7 inside the country. :

8. ‘Case Officer Comments: Despite A-7's tendencies to operate on.”

a grandiose scale, his disappointment in the lack of support received'on his
initiel mission to Cuba; and his display of emotional instability at times,
it is believed that his efforts can be properly channeled to work effectively
for us in Cuba.. His motivation appears to stem from his personal arbitions
.to make his mark on this counter-revolution against Castro, where he can _
assure himself of a priminent position in the future government: to be formed
in Cuba efter the overthrow of the Castro regime. A-7 has imagination and
the will to succeed. His weakness is his inability to hide his personal
embitions from others who may work with him and.who may have altogether dif-
ferent motivations and sense of values. Hence, it is believed that A-7
will encounter problems in handling pede recruited or assigned to. him in
the course of his activities inside the country. AMPUG-1 can be sited as

a good example, where a clash of personalities has apparently alreedy taken
place. In view of this, A-7 will have to be dealt with firmly and mst be
convinced that the success or failure of his projected mission wfll depend
on his ability to develop confidence and loyalty among his followers once hé
is inside the covntry again. Similarly, A-7 must resolve his personal proble:
dealing with ié-wife and in-laws, which has had an adverse effect on him
personally since his return, and may affect his operations inside Cuba. The
next several weeks will, therefore, need be devoted to re-establish A-7's
confidence in our ability to support his efforts in Cuba, once he is sent
back, and working out’ his family problems to obviate any adverse psycholo-
gical effect which may be detrimental to his operations Cuba.

faite" ,
oc

SEGRET

