# 104-10192-10038

## Page 1

104-10192-10038

'is tie...

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

27

SEGRET

BerG 3 00

ROUTING

5. 1

6

FROM:": Ji MAVE

ACTION

IW

INFO

•DCI,- D/DCI, DOP, ADDR, 500 %,

CA: 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI, CI/OPS, C1/16 2

CI/PS, Fl,

FI/D, F1/ INT •6,

R1/AN, WH 8, WH/C 12, VR, FILE, CS/RF.

IN 38699

SECRET

56448562

6 APR 8252Z.65

DIR INFO FACE LANT BARR [SOOMICITE WAVE: $363

• 21-10

INTEL TYPIC

& SUPDATAR AMING-2 IN ANOT DO-1317 OF 31.

MARCH WITH PARA I BASED ON

LETTER FROM NORBERTO MARTINEZ SANTISO OF PUERTO RICO, CLOSE FRIEND

OF AMING-2. SOURCE: PRESENT DISCUSSION MENTIONED PARA 2. RID:

INDEX. FILED &EDAJ6Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

R

I CUBA

C SUSJ: POSSIBLE LIMINENT ATTEMPT BY ORLANDO SOSCH AVILA OF THE MIRR

TO SOMB A CUBAN REFINERY

DOX: 29-38 MARCH 1965.

FIDA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (5 APRIL 1965) .

UFG 6976

MY COMMENT:

RELEASING 1'

_ WIVE

HH/BEG

Miscon

S.M. DELANE

12

8

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

6 APRIL 0537265

• SECRET

TOCS QB-315/01108-65

XX| ROUTINE

BASED ON:

LIAISON: *

i PRIORITY

UFG-6976

NP/ AMOT

RHCLUDED FROM AUTOMA

DECLASSIFICATION

Y

'-2 1389

133) :

7920

---

## Page 2

__CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEEPEL

ROUING

том,

ACTION

INFO

PAGE 2 IN 38699

SOURCE: A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE

TECHNQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL

REPORTS SINCE 1961.

iN COMMENT,

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

TOCS

ROUTINI

RASED ON

LAISON

SECRET:

REPROLUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE → PROHIBITED.

Copy Ra

---

## Page 3

14-00000

BEG B0.09

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED OBSCL

ROUTINE

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

CUSA

29-32 819CH 1965

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCT

Intelligence Information Cable

TDCSDB-315/01108-65

DISTR 6 APRIL 1965

- SUBJECT

POSSIBLE IMMINENT ATTENPT BY ORLANDO BUSCH OF THE MIRR

TO BOMB A CUBAN REFINERY

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (5 APRIL 1965)

REF

IN j8699

SOURCE

AND

FIELD REPORTNO. UFG-6976

APPRAISAL: A MENSER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION

COLLECTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.

— 1. AS OF 29 MARCH 1965, THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACICA REVELUCIONARIA MIRR, INSURRECTICHAL MOVEMENT FOR

REVOLUTIONIZY RECOVER:), LED BY CELANDO BOSCH AVILÀ, MAO COLLECTED

¡CEREASE IN PUERTO RICO AMO PLANNEO TO BO:13 AN UNIDEHTIFIEO SUGAR

REFINERY IN SUSA. AFTER THE MIRA CARRIES CUT INIS GOERATION,

IT PLANS TO CALL A PRESS CONFERENCE AND ANNOUNCE THE FORBATION OF

A GOVERMMENT IN ARMS WHICH WILL POSSIBLY BE REPRESENTED BY BOSCH

HINSELF• SUCH A GOVERMMENT IS TO SE RECCEMILEO BY THE DOMINICAN

REPUSLIC.

2..

ON ¿Ü "ÜRCH, VIRGIL!O PEREZ TOLD FORMER CUSiR: PRESIDENT

Thie matenal cantatas taformaline alloctina the Nallanal Defense ol lhe L'alted Bleses wilblo the meaning of the laploange Lama Tie

B. U.S.C. SerA :49 ANl T9A, PhA ETANACIASLOS ON reTeiALINS of #HICh lO ANy mABDIS lO an UnAUIDOrId DePaOn la DObIDILN Dy las

CONFIDENTIAL

COMTROLLED DISSEM

STATE/INE DIA

ARTO, 'ACSI

NAYY

AId

ICS

SECDEE.

14S.A,

F3I, CUSTOMS, S'ERER PATROL, USCE, 18 NS, TREASURY, AD/CI. 2, CLAVIMCC

OCR OnE 00

EtO

---

## Page 4

CONTENUED CiSSEM

IN

CONFIDENTIAL

TOOS

TDCSD3-315/01108-65

CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS. THAT BOSCH WAS ASCUT TO ATTEMPT ANOTHER

OPERATION IN CUBA AND THAT, ACCORDING TO INFORMATION IN HIS POSSESSION,

BOSCH HAS $20, D$SO SEING HELO FOR HIM IN A NIAMS BANK. THIS MONEY

•WAS DONATO BY A WEALTHY CUSAN WHO HAS GIVEN THE, KEY TO THE SAFETY.

DEPOSIT BOX CONTAINING THE FUNDS TO THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE BANK.

ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BLEN MADE FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT TO TURN THE FUNDS

OVER TO BOSCH AS SOON AS THE REFINERY IS SUMBED.

• 3. (FIELD CONMENT: FOR PREVIOUS REPORTING ON BOSCH'S PLANS

TO "BLOW UP OIL TANKS. IN HABANA", SEE DOSES 315/548052-65,

DATED 24 FEBRUARY 1965.)

4. FIELO DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, CONKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, LUNS, BORDER PATROL, AND USCG. (ALSO

SENTI

SANTO DOMINGO.)

14-10

UPO 1-AA 1201

" PAGE

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

---

