00-48 : kal

ee
1. LEADS {NVESTIGATED BY CIA. This list does not include disseminations or memoranda
on Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte and Silvia Tirado de DURAN. These two leads have been
treated separately ulsewhere in this study.
2. Each document is listed ¢hronologically in the first coitmn with an indication of RETURN TO CA
~~ 2 ¥ nly
the type of document involved (OUT Teletype Message ; DIRECTOR cable disseminated Bac prod y

by electrical means; CSCI dissemination - through regular liaison channels, or
memorandum). Following the subject of the document there is an appropriate excerpt
from the document. .
3. An asterisk in the column headed by (A) indicates that the lead originated in CIA,
either in the field or headquarters. ‘
4. An abbreviation of a component of the U.S. Government in the column headed by (B)
. indicates that the originator of the lead when not CIA and that the later
resnonded to the originator. An entry appearing in dott; columns indicates that
a U.S. representative abroad passed the lead in the field to the local CIA
Station. 7
S. The last column indicates which component(s) received copies of the OIA dissemina-
tion or memorandum. The entry appearing in brackets indtcates the recipient re-

ceived the document at a later time. :,
- ,.

a

PISS


400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - — - a. (A) (B) - RECIPIENT(S) -

“y . e

26 November 1963 DIR 85069 Subject: Travel of Pro-Communist ‘Costa Rican — . FBI
CongreSsman to Texas on 26 November. 1963.

“A usually reliable source reported on 26 November 1963, that Julio SUNOL

Leal, pro-communist, pro-Castro deputy to the Costa Rican Nativbnal Assem-

bly, planned to leave San Jose, Costa Rica, for Poland 24 Novémber to at-

tend the World Peace Conference in Warsaw, Poland. SUNOL delayed his de-

Pparture and now plans to leave San Jose 26 November.

\ tee
"Representativds of this Agency in Costa Rica suspect that SPNOL will try
to gather data in Texas to use in pro-communist/Castro propaganda in con-~
nection with the assassination of President Kennedy. : :

Lhe;

26 November 1963 DIR 85176 Subject: Marina Nikolaeva OSWALD FBI, State, White

rr House; Secret Service
“The following information on Marina Nikolaeva OSWALD, wife of Lee Harvey
OSWALD, was volunteered by Moroccan student Mohammed REGGAB: jborn on 3
January 1938 in Safi, Morocco. REGGAB is now living at Nuernbergerstr.
19, West Berlin. REGGAB was a student at the Moscow Institute of Cine-
matography from September 1960 to April 1962. He came to Berlin in April
1963 as.a student and on 26 November colunteered the following: informa-
tion on Mrs. OSWALD, who had been one of his girl friends in'‘Mescow. He
identified her on the basis of a photo and the first name, Marina, which
appeared in the 25 November 1963 issue of Berliner Zeitung. soe ee

;
PREGGAB makes a favorable impression and is available for fiither ques-
tioning." eat ee

FBI, State, White —
House, Secret Service

26 November 1963 DIR 85177 Subject: Telecon between Cuban Pr sident
DORTTCOS and Joaquin HERNANDEZ arnds.

"Following is account of telephone conversation between Cuba’ President
Osvaldo DORTICOS in Havana and Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas, Cuban Ambassador
® to Mexico in Mexico City at 0940 hours Mexico City time on 26 November
1963 as reported from sensitive source." (See Chronological Summary on
Silvia Tirado de DURAN.)


400000

27 November 1963 DIR 85182

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

27 November 1963 CSCI-3/778,881 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD/Soviet Activities in
lexico

ity, 18 ~ 24 November 19653".
. . . q.

"1. Forwarded as Attachment A is a resume of the observed activities of
Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV and Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERIEV/as reported -
by a reliable source in Mexico City. Attention was given to'lKOSTIKOV
because of the indication that he is the consul who interviewed OSWALD
on 28 September 1963... . ALFERIEV travelled with KOSTIKOV to nor-
thern Mexico dyring the early part of September 1963. Sourcd. reported
that during thd period under review the observed activities of .KOSTIKOV
and ALFERIEV appeared to be normal, as did the activities of the entire
Soviet Embassy complement. | : sae

"2. Forwarded as Attachment B is a resume of telephone call iptaced to

and from the Soviet Embassy on the afternoon of 22 November. | Analysis of

calls made the morning of 22 November and the morning and afternoon of 23
“th

November revealed no pertinent information." |
uk
th u

Subject: Lee H. OSWALD. ve

fi
"2. On ,.23 November 1963, Richard Thomas GIBSON, who was acquluinted with
Lee Harvey OSWALD, made the following statements to a close friend in
Bern, Switzerland: i

ai My
"OSWALD is ‘one of us'. Two years ago OSWALD and GIBSON* corresponded

. and OSWALD became a member of the Committee (presumably:!the Fair

\ Play for Cuba Committee). OSWALD is crazy. GIBSON .burned all of his
correspondence with OSWALD. GIBSON is glad that he (GIBSON) is not
in New York now and he feels sorry for 'Lee' who is in New York and
‘Tibor’, : : , 7 age a

|
: if : :
; NARS
"3. According to other information available to our represeittative in
Bern, Richard Thomas GIBSON, born 13 May 1931 in Los Angeles’! Gilifornia,
has resided in Lausanne, Switzerland, since April 1963. He ‘is a negro
journalist and has been active in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee since
its organization in 1960. In Switzerland he has been involved'in the
publication La Revolution Africaine." rn

- RECIPIENT(S) -

°

FBI

FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
{Warren Commission]


400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - es) (B) - RECIPIENT(S) -

USIS FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service

: 26 November 1963 DIR 85246 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD.

“On 26 November, Dr. Jose Guillermo AGUIRRE of Mexico told the following
information to Peter MORAGA, United States Information Service officer in
Mexico City:

"Maria Rodriguez de LOPEZ, said a son-in-law of hers, Arnesto ;
RODRIGUEZ, who lives in New Orleans was well acquainted with Lee OSWALD.
Son-in-law is a Cuban who lives at 212 Jefferson Parrish, Néw Orleans,
tel: Vernon 5-9658. Arnesto RODRIGUEZ runs a Spanish langtlage ‘school
and is anti-Castro. According to Maria Rodriqguez de. LOPEZ ‘her son-in-
law has a taped conversation with OSWALD."

. t
27 November 1963 Blind Memorandum Subject: Yuriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKoV.

reasonable doubt that he is a staff officer of the KGB. Co tributi
to this conclusion are his associates, his movements, his Méxican a:
the [TMD LENE and his cover position, as well as his involvement in

“After examining all our traces on KOSTIKOV, we are convinced ibueth
4
d

the TUMBLEWEED] operation.

: : ‘ ane
"KOSTIKOV's involvement in frupLewerd] is our only reason to Helieve that
he is connectedjwith the 13€h Department. KOSTIKOV was jin elandestine
contact with TUMBLEWEED] (as definitely, confirmed by[TUMBLEWEE)'s photo
identification) and ar¥anged [TUMBLEWEBO} s contact in the U.Si~with a KGB
colleague of. KOSTIMOV's." . : Bae .

#
: a

28 November 1963 DIR 85657 Subject: None given. : USEMB ‘FBI, State, White
: . ; a re London — |- House ~~
"On 26 November 1963 a British journalist named John WILSON; and also

Known as John WILSON-HUDSON, gave information to the American Embassy
in London which indicated that an ‘American gangster-type named RUGY'
visited Cuba around 1959. WILSON himself was working in Cuba at the.
time and was jailed by Castro before he was deported. a

"In prison in Cuba, WILSON says he met an?Atherican gangster gambler
named SANTOS who could not return to the USA because there were several
indictments outstanding against him. Instead he preferred to live in

1

~3-

JD


- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - ~ _ oF a?) (B)

relative luxury in a Cuban prison. While SANTOS was in prison, WILSON
Says, SANTOS was visited frequently by an American gangster-type named
RUBY. His story is being followed up. WILSON says he had dnee testi-
fied about Castro activities before the Eastland Committee of the U.S.
Senate, sometime in 1959 or 1960." !

’
1

28 November 1963 DIR 85665 Subject: None given. 7 *

. ot
“Our Station in The Hague has reported that on 23 November 1963, a local
Castroite named Maria SNETHLAGE talked to Third Secretary Ricardo SANTOS
of the Cuban Embassy in The Hague and said that she knew the 'Mr. LEE!
[sic] who murdered President Kennedy. She characterized 'LEE' as a man
full of hate and violence, and speculated that he had been ‘misused by a
group'. She said she had written to GIBSON (undoubtedly Richard GIBSON,
U.S. citizen of Lausanne, Switzerland, born 13 May 1935, a Gastro sympa-
thizer, who had visited the Netherlands recently and was in‘contact both
with the Soviet Ambassador and the Cuban Embassy). ‘

‘Later on 23 November, Maria SNETHLAGE talked again to Third , Secretary
SANTOS and said that 'Mr. LEE of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee’ had
been slandered. It was another person, ‘named Lee OSWALD', ‘who had done
it. Sng THLAGE is reported to have been in Cuba in January @nd again in
May 1963. : .

“Dutch authorities have informed us that on 7 November, in t&lking about
attacks by Cuban refugees against the Cuban mainland, SANTOS had replied
‘just wait and you will see what we can do. It will happen ‘soon'. Asked
th ke more precise, SANTOS had replied ‘just wait. just wait'. SANTOS is
reported to have a pro-Castro brother in the U.S.A. a

"A very sensitive source reports that after his conversations with SNETH-
LAGE, SANTOS was furious because she had not contacted him." ;

2R November 1963 DIR 85676 Subject: Travel. of Soviet Diplom tic Couriers, FBI

"1. Reference is made to your teletype of 8 November 1963 concerning the
travel to Mexico of Soviet diplomatic couriers Valentin Germanovich
PONGMAREV and Aleksey. Nikolayevich POPKOV. an

"+ RECIPIENT(S) -

e

FBI, State, White
House, Setret Service
(Warren Commission]

FBI ,


400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - ; ; 7 (A) - (B) - RECIPIENT(S) -

"2. According to our representative in Mexico City, PONOMAREV and POPKOV
left Mexico City for Cuba on 12 November via Cubana 465 and teturned to
Mexico City on 18 November via Cubana. :

"3. A usually reliable and sensitive source reported that they probably os
left Mexico City for New York on 23 November via Aeronaves Flt 451. The ; ,
same source reported that one 'ANANYEV' (phonetic) of the Soviet Consulate .
in New York contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City on 23. November and
_ requested information on which flight the couriers were taking. Assistant ’
Consul Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV provided the information on behalf
of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City." ; :

“8 Navy FBI, State, White

29 November 1963 DIR 85691 Subject: None given. .
House, Secret Service

"1. Your attention is called to a series of anonymous telephone calls
made to the Office of the U.S. Naval Attache in Canberra, Australia, by

a mand claiming to have had knowtedge about a Soviet plot to assassinate ~
the late President Kennedy. Our first record of this matte# is a Naval

Attache cable from Canberra sent on 24 November 1963. -

"8. Australian authoritiss working on this case consider the called to be
a crank, They state that Soviet offices in Australia do not;tise anything
hut Soviet chauffeurs; they have no record of their using a Polish chau-

ffcur. They are continuing their investigation."

a :
29 November 1963 DIR-85715 Subject: Travel of Lee Harvey OSWALD. & FBI, State, White
House, Secret Servi

Information gathered from various foreign sources regarding the travel

of Lee Harvey OSWALD and his wife in 1959 and 1962. ae Bas
i . Ss
29 November 1963 DIR 85770 Subject: None given. ® Arny FBI, State, White
— : vo House, Secret Service
"2. On 4 November 1963, a U.S. Army Pfc Eugene B. DINKIN, serial number [Warren ‘Commission]

RA 76710292, about 24 years old, went absent without leave from-his unit,
Headquarters Company, U.S. Army General Depot, Metz, France. He was |
scheduled for a psychiatric examination that same day. He apparently

- entered Switzerland using a false Army identification card with forged

travel orders. :
~S-


30 November 1963 ~*CSCI-3/778,894 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD.

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - | (A) (B) - = RECIPIENT(S) -

"3. On 6 and 7 November 1963 he appeared in the Press Room of United

Nations Office in Geneva and told reporters he was being persecuted. He

also wished to alert the world to the U. S. Government ‘propaganda cam-

paign'. Army reports show that he voluntarily returned to his unit in

Metz on or about 11 November 1963. ; hae :

"4. Around 26 November 1963, after President Kennedy had been’ assassina-

ted, a Geneva journalist named Alex des FONTAINES, stringer for Time-Life

and correspondent for Radio Canada, was reported to be filing a story to \
the Paris offi¢e of Time-Life recounting Private DINKIN's visit.to Geneva :
and quoting DINKIN aS having said that ‘they' were plotting against Presi-

dent Kennedy and that 'something' would happen in Texas. Deg, FONTAINES

had been prompted to do this by an unidentified female reporter who had

recalled such statements by DINKIN; des FONTAINES thought he recalled he

had heard DINKIN say something like that also, and although he did not

really believe that DINKIN had grounds for his statements when he made “

them, he filed the story just to be sure. ee

"5. All aspects of this story were known, as reported above; by U.S.
military authorities and have been reported by military attache cable
through military channels." . wo

he,

. i

* FBI

i oo
"1. Attached is an article which appeared on page 2 of the 29 November :
1963 issue of the Washington Daily News. The artécle contains’ informa- {

tion which implies that two persons might have been involved iii

lin the as-
sussination of President Kennedy. ... .
1-page . Who ee

"2, The Washington Daily News article also states that the:
ad {placed in The Dallas Morning News on 22 November] which presumably
cost $1250.09 was placed by [Bernar WEISSMAN, that he cea, for

the ad, and that WEISSMAN resided in Dallas at a small apartment house.
The article indicates . . . that he roomed with one William BURLEY, . . .

"3. The records of this office contain information about ong} Bill BURLEY,
a U.S. Air Force Tech Sergeant, stationed in Libia in 1958 who may have
been involved in nafarious activities. You are referred to the Office of
Special Investigations, USAF, for possible additional information.

; : ‘
-6- oop


400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - 7 (A) (B) - RECIPIENT(S) -
"4, Our information indicates that BURLEY had contact with [foreign] :
persons whose activities seem to have been questionable. ... .

i

"6. The ahove information is provided as a result of ‘a preliminary check
of our records. The records of this office contain no additional informa-
tion which at this time can be identified as pertaining to the persons who
micht be identical with the men who placed the newspaper ad; or to persons
who might have heen in contact with them." ie a .
; a - . \

3 December 1963 DIR 86496 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. obee : a Ln FBI

"On the question of why Lee OSWALD felt that he could not get his Mexican

visa extended without using his real name, the following may’be germane:

Mexican immigration records checked by the U.S. Consulate iniNuevo Laredo

and reported through the U.S. Embassy to both out office and. yours, showed ‘

that Lee OSWALD entered Mexico on 26 September 1963 using the name HARVEY

OSWALD LER. It may he that OSWALD feared that any attempt tip‘ extend his

visa would result in discovery that he was in the country under a false

name; he might have had to show some identification to get the visa exten-

ded, and he prohably had no documentation in the name of HARVEY OSWALD

LEE." , li
2 Hes
4 December 1963 DIR 86702 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. af oe FBI, State, White
: —_— i Woe. ; : House, Secret Service
"Records of the Foreigners Records Office of the German Federal Republic... | [Warren Commission]

in Cologne, Germany, show that Marina Nikolayevna PUSAKOVA OSWALD crossed
West Germany from East Germany to Holland on 3 June 1962. She. traveled —
by rail, crossing into West Germany at Helmstedt on 3 June qi entering —
Holland by rail at the Bentheim crossing point. She had We { German visa
694/62 issued at the West German Embassy in Moscow.. She n thon the U8."

destination as U.S.A. Comment: This confirms information from the U.S.°-

Embassy in Moscow to the effect that the OSWALD family travelled from Mes-

cow to Rotterdam by rail around 3 June 1962. Helmstedt and |Bentheim are

on the main rail route from Russia to Rotterdam. While Lee OSWALD himself ‘
and their infant daughter are not recorded in German records|:this probably

because little attention is paid to U.S. citizens and to infants in keep-

ing travel records." Wot

ah

on


400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - © : (A) aa - RELA aba Quy >

5 December 1963 DIR 87189 Subject: None given. ® FBI, State, White
; ouse

“1, We have learned that on 3 December 1963, a known Soviet, intelligence
officer in New Delhi, India, working through Indian communists, attempted
to have a number of telegrams sent to President JOHNSON, Chief Justi&ce
WARREN, and Attorney General KENNEDY from Indian youth, legal, and. other
groups, demanding a full probe into the assassination of President John F.
Kennedy. Apparently the Soviet officer undertook to pay for all the tele- |
erams; he said the whole scheme was based on ‘orders from Moscow'- \

"2. Note: to| check on this story and to detect similar activity from
other areas, this Agency would appreciate receiving data on,lany such tele-
grams which have been received." . \ des

Pan

6 December 1963 DIR 87520 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. wo * FBI, State, White
: . House, Secret Service
“Reference is made to our OUT Telegram no. 86702 of 4 December 1963 which | . {Warren Commission]

gave information on the travel of Marina OSWALD (and presumably also Lee
Harvey OSWALD and their daughter) across West Germany on their return

from the Soviet Union. Information now available from Dutchj authorities
seems to confirm this. On 3 June .1962 one M. OSVALD, listedj!as a male
Russian citizen entered the Netherlands by train at the Oldenzaal border
point. “Comment: It is believed that the lksting of this pezson as a male
instead of female was just an error of the border officials,!;Note that
Oldenzaal is opposite Bentheim, the German border point whe, Marina : . .
OSWALD heft Germany." . t H

9‘December 1963 DIR 87731 Subject: Richard BEYMER, American! Movie Actor, * FBI
in Touch with Cuban Embassy, Mexico: City. ;

"1, The Mexico City News of 5 December 1963 carried a picture of Richard co, .
BEYMER, American movie actor, who was a delegate to the Film’ Festival beé: : ~ ON
ing held in Acapulco. . !

"2, BEYMER was in touch with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City on 2 Decem-
her, and a person believed to be BEYMER was in touch with the Embassy on

30 November. He wanted to speak to Silvia DURAN, who was not at the Em-
hassy. Another employee told him that no reply had been redeived from
Cuba. . : figs

en


14-00000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT =) 0

"3. ‘This office has no information on BEYMER.. |... \-
. . mo lf

"4. DURAN is the Mexican employee of the Cuban Embassy wifh whom Lee H.

OSWALD was in touch regarding a visa for Cuba., re :

a
ine

"S. This information is for your use only and may not be disseminated |

without permission from this Agency." : i

9 December 1963 DIR 87796 Subject: None given. __ if.

“1. The American Embassy in Stockholm, Swedeti, has received. a letter
mailed 25 November 1963 in Stockholm alleging that the assassination of
President Kennedy was arranged by the Red Chinese. The letter purports
to be from one Ryo Liang Yuan of the Red Chinese Embassy in Stockholm,
but no such official is assigned there and there is no record of Chinese
official hy this name anywhere abroad. : poo: vile

"2. The letter is written in broken English and stated that:the Chinese
communists got in contact with OSWALD when he was in the Sdyviet Union.”
When OSWALD returned to the U.S.A., the Red Chinese re-contacted him, .
threatened to expose him if he did not cooperate. The Red iChinese ex-
pected that the U.S. would attack Cuba when it. learned that, the assassin
was a Cuhan sympathizer. The Soviets would then: attack the U.S.A., the
Red Chinese would ask the Soviets for atomic weapons, the Gommunist Bloc
would win the war, the Chinese Reds would then: assassinate‘iKHRUSHCHEV and
take over control. a ara if

th. The writer said he worked for the 'Départment of Stat Secret', but
no department by this name is known in the Chinese Communist. Government.
Our Station in Stockholm judges this to be a crank: letter «|The original
letter is being sent here for analysis." ="): cin 7

“

‘LE December 1963  TDCSDB-3/658,408 Subject: -Comments of Soviet Official regarding
- Moscow Views on International Situation fol-
lowing Death of President Kennedy';' 2. Resump-
tion of Disarmament Talks. ails .

oe His
“The Soviet official was recently on a trip home and retured from Moscow

aren

(A)

(3)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

.

\
FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
{Warren Commission]

Full dissemination
8


400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT +

i to Geneva about the end of November. When source, who has préviously dis-
cussed political topics with him, askéd about the. reaction in Moscow to
the death of President Kennedy the Soviet official immediately launched
into lengthy commentary. It may be that subsource's ready responses and
apparent spontaneity resulted from a repition of widely held views. How-
ever, considering his position it seems more likely that his comments were
intended for western consumption." . ‘ ,

12 December 1963 CSCI-3/779,048 Subject: WILSON, Carlos John with“aliases.
i

Compilation of information from Agency files regarding Carlos. John WILSON
also known as John WILSON-HUDSON and John Hudson WILSON. :

we,

12 December 1963 DIR 88643 Subject: Assassination of President Kennedy
> Allegedly Part of Plot against all"Democratic
Presidents. oo 4

- tf
the
4

"1, An undated letter, sent to U.S. Ambassador Raymon TELLES, U.S. Em-
bassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, refers to the assassination of President
Kennedy as part of a general plan to exterminate all the presidents of

the democratic world. The writer of the letter, ‘Rodrigo c.f, identifies
himself as a Costa Rican of Marxist-Leninist ideals, whose -éssignment is
the assassination of President ORLICH of Costa Rica and Foreign Minister
ODUBER of Costa Rica. The envelope in which the letter arri¥ed is post- .
marked 28 November 1963, from Heredia, Costa Rica. The lettér is believed
to be the work of a crank." : ey mt

16 December 1963 CSCI-3/779,135 Subject: Peter DERYABIN's Comment. on the —

Kennédy Assassination.

: ip i aM : .
"], Attached for your ‘pertsal are the written: comments of KGB defector
Peter DERYABIN on some aspects of the assassination’of President John. F, =
Kennedy. As you know, DERYABIN defected from the KGB about fen years ago,
- and his personal knowledge is not up to date, but he has stayed in touch
- with Soviet intelligence developments to the best of his ability. His
comments on how Lee OSWALD and his wife must have been handled by Soviet
intelligence authorities while they were ‘inside: the Soviet Udion are par-

10-4)

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

FBI

FBI, State, White
House [Warren Com-
mission]

FBI



400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - (A) ) - RECIPIENT(S)- -

ticularly interesting and his suggestions for ‘the. questioning’ df Mrs.
Marina OSWALD are equally provocative. :

"2, We have decided to pass on his views without editing, and this: Agency
docs not specifically endorse his conclusions ‘or recommendations." :
. . . wo : :
“& December 19€3 DIR 89970 Subject: Lee oswALD Case. we * FBI, State, White
. : : . i : House, Searet Service
"Reference is made to our OUT Telegram no. 85182 of 27. November 1963. : - [Warren Commission]
Richard Thomas!GIBSON, U.S. citizen.who was once associated with the Fair
Play for Cuba Committee in New York was interviewed in early December 1963
by a U.S. Consular officer in Paris, France, to see if he had"information
on Lee OSWALD. GIBSON said he had never known any one by that name hut
mentioned the following two possibilities: to oe ,

"GIBSON was very cooperative and said his association with che publication

'Revolution' was for purely economic reasons," ar. i

27 December 1963  CSCI-3/779,297  Subsfect: Assassination of President: Kennedy. * : FBI

"1. Reference is made to a report passed by a field office of! this Agency
to your office in Miami on 7 December 1963, stating that the assassination
of President Kennedy had been arranged in Cuba by the Cuban government and
the Chinese communists. The report mentioned .the names of fnuj SAAVEDRA,
Ramon B. CORTES, Fernandez FETTO , and Robert :NIETO. : The report was not_
disseminated by our Headquarters because we wished | to check i

"2.0. . . the report is still seriously in doubt, According to him

[source], the statements about the assassination being a Cuban!and Chinese
communist plot were made by one Raul SAAVEDRA,’ who he says is!'a high Cuban
government official. We have not yet been. able to. identify” nine oe ee

"3. We have not been in direct physical contact with our source since his
initial report on this topic. As soon as we can talk to him personally,
2 we will try to get more information, but we doubt whether this can be ar- .
- ranged in the near future. We wish to point out that this source has in
the past produced several reports of a sensational nature which turned out
to be untrue. We do not believe he deliberately: submitted false informa-
, Be bo

“une


400000

ai
. ly
- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(a) (B) _ + RECIPIENT(S) -

tion, but he appears to be unable in some cases to evaluate information
properly." . . is Lo. .

he

27 January 1964 CSCI-3/779,729 Subject: The AssasSination of President Kennedy

"1. In connection with our efforts to check fossible relatives of Marina
Nikolayevna OSWALD, nee PRUSAKOVA, widow of the suspected assassin of

\ President KENNEDY, Lee Harvey OSWALD, our attention was drawn to one
Lyudmila Nikolayevna PRUSAKOVA, who was one of 28 Soviet students invited
by the Scotish Union of Students to visit England as tourists, in May 1960.
A visa application compteted by PRUSAKOVA on 17 March 1960, copy of which
has been acquired from the British internal services, disclosed the fol-
lowing background information: ... . cde we,

ey a werd
"2. While there is no indication that PRUSAKOVA is related t@ Marina
Nikolayevna OSWALD, your Bureau may wish to discuss this information with
Marina OSWALD because of such possibility. In the event that PRUSAKOVA is
related to (or known to) Marina OSWALD, we would appreciate béing so ad-—
vised." : i ma :
i ih,

i

30 January 1964 CSCI-3/779,814 Subject: Jack L. RUBY, Lee Harvey OSWALD - FBI

Victim Civil Rights.

"1. Reference is made to your memorandum of 7; January 1964,!subject as
above, concerning a report of a visit to Cuba .in early 1963 made by Jack”.
L. RUBY, assassin of Lee Harvey OSWALD.. ThisAgency has recédyed a simi-
lar report from a souyce to the effect that RUBY was in Havana in late .
1962 or in early 1963. ... . Our source stated that following indi-
vidual could verify the above information: Ae | | Gene
| .

. one i
"Evidio Bernardo PEREIRA Acosta . +» «,(whose) addres
September 1963 was 821 SW 2nd Street, Miami, Florida. F

wor, Bee
“2, We suggest that your Bureau may prefer to’ interview PEREIRA Acosta. :
: . . We would appreciate receiving the results of your interview of
- PERETRA Acosta. Your Bureau will be advised in thé event we"receive fur-

ther information relating to this matter."

hee



400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - (A) (B) - RECIPIENT(S) --.

4 February /1964 CSCT-3/779,817 Subject: Lee Harvey. OSWALD. | : FBI FBI

"1. In response to your communication, DL 100-10461, dated 31 December

1963, your file (S) 105-82555, subject as above, enclosed is'the requested

information from the files of this agency. This information covers names

addresses, and telephone numbers relating to the Soviet Union."

. . 7 ;

.4 February 1964 CSCI-3/779,988 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. a FBI FBI \

"), subsequent to the preparation of: our CSCI-3/779,817, dated 4 February

1964, subject as above, in response to your communication DL-100-10461,

dated 31 December 1963, file number (S) 105-82555, additional information

on the subject has come to our attention. This information jwas received

from your office in your communication DBA 59901, dated 20 December 1963.

It is repeated below for the convenience of your personnel involved in the

OSWALD case. ... ." ; ae

18 February 1964 Memorandum for Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation; ot FBI, Warren Com-
Subject: Assassination of President John F. Kennedy. [DDP~4-0861] ' mission
‘ . wa i

"), Your memorandum dated 6 December 1963, file DL 100-10461, ...
lists 47 photographs which were among the effects of Lee Harvey OSWALD,
and made available to your Bureau by . . . of ‘the Dallas Pollice Depart-
ment. .. . It appears that most of the photographs were taken in the © ; i
USSR and depict Soviet contacts of OSWALD or scenes. én the Soviet Union. :
. a Le wh.

"2. In connection with our efforts to assist:the President's Commission t
on the Assassination of President Kennedy by providing information which : .
might he helpful in interpreting available materials. relating to OSWALD's a re . AL
activities abroad, we would appreciate recetving at your eafliest conven- ;
jence one copy of each of these photographs, or exemplars, from which we
can make copies. . et mo

. “ . q . a

18 February 1964 Memorandum for Mr. Thomas L. HUGHES, The Director of Intelligence *. FBI, State, Warren
and Research, Department of State. 7 us | Commission
- Suhiect: Assassination of President John -F. Kennedy - Verification of



400000

+ DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - (A) (B) - RECIPIENT(S} -

Entry in "Historic Diary", So -* {DDP 4-0864]
"1, . . . In a document entitled ‘Historic Diary! there appears an entry

which refers to 'an elderly American'. The entry is under the date 26
October 1959 when OSWALD was allegedly confined in an unidentified Moscow
o hospital. .. . It is apparent that every effort should be made to iden-
a tify the elderly American, if he existed. +» « We assumé the lead is
still outstanding. It is our recommendation that the Department of State ;
urgently request through its channels a careful search of Embassy and Con- : \
sular records jn Moscow which might reveal the identity of an elderly : : °
American hospitalized at the end of October 1959 and possibly registered
with the Embassy as a tourist. An independent confirmation of this de-
tail could he of freat significance in validating the entriés of OSWALD's
‘Historic Diary' and would possibly lead to the development of additional
information on OSWALD's stay in the USSR."

19 February 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel étc. | co P.C. Warren Commission
Subject: Cuban Consulate and Embassy in Mexico City. ([DDP 4-4581}

“1. Reference is made to your letter of 10 February 1964, relative to in-
formation supplied by this Agency on the activities of Lee Harvey OSWALD
in Mexico City... . Bo : : :

"3. We surmise that the reference in OSWALD's letter of 9 November to a
man who had since been replaced must refer to: Cuban Consul Hisebio AZCUE, .
who left Mexico for Cuba on permanent transfer on 18 November 1963, four’. 1
days before the assassination. AZCUE had. been in Mexico for’ eighteen
years and it was known (to us) as early as September 1963 that he was to
be replaced. His replacement did arrive in September. AZCUE was schedu-
led to leave in October but did not leave until 18 November..j;
: . : pio Tt Pele. :
"4. We do not know who might have told OSWALD that AZCUE or any other
Cuban had heen or was to be replaced, but we speculate that Silvia DURAN
or some Soviet official might have mentioned it if OSWALD complained about
AZCUE's altercation with him." Be tea an

2 . ae

weal

20 February 1964 CSCI-3/779,988 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. FBI FBI

fe

» Las ;


400000

5 March

29% Murch

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT '-

"2, Concerning the entry on page 63 of OSWALD's address book: 'Lev
SETYAEV - Radio Moscow. . .' a report from your office dated 20 December
1963, suhiect: Lillie May RAHM, contains the following information:

Annette (nee ZUGOFF) SETYAEVA, . . . is married to-a Leo SETYAEV who ©

worked for Radio Moscow; ... ."

1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc. -&

Subfect: Sumnaary of Findings in Regard to Allegations by Mohammed REGGAB
Relative to Marina OSWALD. _ [DDP 4-1171]

"1, On 26 November 1963, Mohammed REGGAR, a Moroccan student in West Ber-
lin, made a statement that he could supply information on a‘‘'Marina Niko-
lovna' who he asserted was identical with Mrs. Marina OSWALD. ‘The attach-
ment is a summary of our findings in regard to REGGAB's allegation. The
report covers investigation including polygraphing in Berlin and inquiries
conducted in Morocco during the period 26 November 1964 to 1 ‘March 1964.

"2, Tt is‘our conclusion that REGGAB's story of his acquaintance with
Mrs. ‘farina OSWALD is a fabrication." ,

. . . ap
1964 CSCI-3/780,612 Subject: Assassination of President’ John F.
Kennedv. -_ -

™L, In the course of our research of files pértaining to areas of the
USSR in which Lee Harvey OSWALD allegedly resided, :a Photograph of an in-
dividual closely resembling OSWALD was uncovered. .

"2. Our files indicate that this photograph | (Attachaent A A) ‘came from a
color transparency taken in Minsk, USSR, on of about 11 Augu ust: 1961, by
an American tourist, Mrs. Monica RE. KRAMER, whose address at ithe time was
P.O. Box 985, Solvang, California.

"S. “rs. KRAMER and Miss NAMAN, ‘both. of whom! ‘are - United States citizens,
were contacted by this Agency on a one-time hasis, following): ‘their return
from their tour of the USSR. & :

"6. Mrs. KRAMER, . . . furnished this Agency. with 160 color; itransparen-
cies taken during the trip. .

(A)

(B) - RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

Secret
FBI

FBI

Service. FH


n

- RECIPIENT(S) -

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - "°° | 7 (A), (B)
cs -
"9, This office would be interested in any pertinent information which
interviews of Mrs. KRAMER and Miss NAMAN by your office might possibly
provide... 4" : ; a :

_ : . iL :
27 March 1964 Memorandum for Mr. Thomas L. HUGHES, The Director of Intelligence
and Research, Department of State. . : : ” ,

Subject: Assassination of P

resident John F. ‘Kennedy - Verification of
Entry in "Historic Diary". no :

(DDP 4-1606] a State, Warren Com-
; . : oo mission, FBI
"2, We have received a report that the hospital to which OSWALD was taken :
by Soviet authorities after the suicide attempt mentioned in his ‘Historic
Diary' may have been the Botkinskaya Hospital in Moscow. The 1958 and
1962 Moscow telephone directories for Organizations and Institutions, list
a hospital named S. P. Botkina. Our specialists advise that a.native of
Moscow would normally refer to this hospital as the 'Botkinskaya'. It is
said to be the hospital to which foreigners and diplomatic peysonnel are
generally taken in the event of an emergency or serious illness, and the
building or wing of the hospital is reported to be especially designated
for this purpose. vos a mo,

"3. We would appreciate receiving information on any Americans who might
have been patients at the 'Botkinskaya' in the fall of 1959 that may be

contained in your files or those of your Embassy in Moscow." ||.

31 March 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel et

ia: ' * |} Warren Commission
Subject: Reports on Activities and Travel of Lee Harvey OSWALD and Marin \
Nikolevna OSWALD. . ok A\[DDP 4-1655] :
"1. Reference is made to the second paragraph of your memorandy dated 12 os . be
February 1964, and the second paragraph of your memorandum ofj/16 March .
1964, relative to disseminations of information made by CIA to/the Secret .
Service. : ae

de
a tary

"3. Attached to this memorandum are exact copies of two teletyped messa~
4 ges relative to the travels and activities ofthe OSWALDs (Attachments A
* and B). . . . In Attachment C, OUT Teletype no. 85715, are found refer-
ences to two other teletyped messages’ (OUT no. 85182 and OUT no. 85665)
which describe one Richard Thomas GIBSON, . ./.°. Paraphrases, of no.

85162 and no. 85665 are included as Attachments D and BE." I


400000

3 April 19

7 April 19

20 April 1

24 April 1

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT ~ :. tO (A) (3) - RECIPIENT(S) -

State Warren Commission

64 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.
Subject: Richard Thomas GIBSON. . . ' (DDP 4-1699]

t
"2. Attached to this memorandum is the exact text of OUT Teletype no.
89970, dated 18 December 1963, which contains the report of an interview
with GIBSON held by a U.S. consular officer in Paris. This message was
disseminated to the White House, Department of State, Federal Bureau of
Investigation, with a copy to the Secret Service."

\

64 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General’ Counsel etc. Warren Commission

Subject: Mohammed REGGAB . [DDP 4-1786]

“2. The CIA Station in Berlin has reported that, contrary to his promise,
REGGAB has not written since his return to Morocco, and apparently has not
come back to Berlin. Knowledgeable sources which are usually reliable
state that, as of 10 March, REGGAB has not fulfilled the legal formalities
required of foreigners arriving: in that city. It is apparent, therefore,
that he has not returned to Berlin." . of

P.C. Warren Commission

964 Me andum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc,
i FBI

Subject: Report Pertaining to Allegations Concerning Anton
ERDINGER,. ; . cad ' [DDP 4-1997]
"1, We have studied the report forwarded by your letterof 26 March
1964. “A review of CIA f£ reflects no pertinent data on the’ prindipals
involved. . . wok Sits

at : ; Het
"2. There is report to the effect that Guenther GRONA (mentioned on
page 4 of the(| "Jreport) was under investigation in 1963 by“West German
authorities. e was a journalist and correspondent for an Hust: Berlin...
radio station. The basis for, and the outcome of, the investigation. is
not reflected in CIA files. However, in view'of the peripherzal nature of.
his involvement in the matter being considered, his activitiés ‘are be- ~ |
lieved to have little or no bearing on the investigation." |: | oe

FBI Warren Commission

(ZD>

964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, Genéral Counsel etc.
Subject: Lydia DIMYTRUK; Acquaintance of Marina OSWALD. [DDP 4-2099]

| ee


400000

’

(A) (B) - RECIPIENT(S) -,

:

~ DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

"1. Reference is made to the report of Special Ageng Rober. P. GEMBERLING
dated 30 November 1963, ... . This communciation reported an interview
by the FBI of Mr. George A. BOUHE on 23 November 1963 in which Mr. BOUHE
referred to a Lydia DIMYTRUK of Fort Worth, Texas, ‘who allegedly had asso-
ciated with Marina N. OSWALD. ; ; ‘ ‘

"2. The files of this Agency contain the following pertinent information
on one Lydia DYMITRUK who may be identical with the Lydia DIMYTRUK referred
to above: ... ." . y

t ; . a ah
28 April 1964 CSCI-3/780 ,996 Subject: Yuri ‘Ivanovich NOSENKO ,. Espionage - : FBI FBI

Russia. '

i
ot

"1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 6 March 1964, subject as
above, file (S) 65-68530, in which you requested information: which would
tend to corroborate or disprove NOSENKO's information concerning Lee
Harvey OSWALD. Our files contain the following information: from NOSENKO
on OSWALD which may amplify or contradict the information fbrwarded in
reference: ... ." :

. gp

29 April 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc. * Warren Commission

Subject: Photograph of Lee Harvey OSWALD. mo °. [DDP 4-2160] FBI

"1. As the result of a search of our graphics files for pictures perti-

nent to the story of Lee Harvey OSWALD's sojourn in the USSR, ‘we have

found the attached photograph (Attachment 'A'), of a group of. persons stan-

ding near the Palace of Culture in Minsk. This photograph was taken by an i

American tourist in Minsk on or about 11 August. 1961. Aithough the persong

in the photograph are not identified in our files, we believe on the basis an

of comparison with other pictures that the second person. from the right is

Lee Harvey OSWALD. | Cos {a

-

"3. It is worth néting that the person believed to be OSWALD is wearing
a short-sleeved sport shirt of the same design:or pattern agone worn by ‘
- OSWALD in pictures taken of him in his apartmant in Minsk in.1962. Copies
: of two such photographs, which were found among ‘OSWALD's effects after his
arrest and forwarded to us by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, are
attached for comparison purposes. be i

“Sg:


400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - | (A) (B) - RECIPIENT(S) -

*

[Se

"4. Attachment 'A‘' appears to substantitate OSWALD's presente in Minsk at
least during the summer of 1961 and to indicate that he had contact at
least on one occasion with American tourists visiting that city, as he
once claimed in a letter to his brother, Robert OSWALD."

pe FBI Watren Commission
[DDP 4-2351] FBI

“Attached herewith is information from this Agency's files on the entries
in Marina OSWALD's notebook, a copy of which was received from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation under their communication dated 13 April 1964.
Copies of this attachment have been forwarded jto the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation." : : : :

8 May 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.
Subject: Marina OSWALD's Notebook. :

11 May 1964 CSCI-3/781,172 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal Security FBI FBI, Warren Com-
: Russia - Cuba. : mission

"1. In response to your communication dated 13 April 1964, file number
(S) 195-8255, subject as above, attached herewith is a compilation of in-
formation from the files of this ABency on names, addresses, and telephone
numbers relating to the Soviet Union, which were extracted from an address
book identified as belonging to Marina OSWALD." ‘ a

LS May 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc, ; a Warren Commission
Subject: Role of the Cuban Intelligence Service in Processing Visa Appli- FBI
cants; Reaction of that Service to the Assassination of President Kennedy.

"1. Within the very recent period, this Agency has established contact i : OS,
with a well-placed individual who has been in close. and prolonged contact

with ranking officers of the Cuban Dirdéccion Géneral de Intelligencia

(Directorate General for Intelligence - DGI). “His knowledge of DGY activi

ties, techniques, and personalities is direct and profound. :This Agency

has queried him in detail on possible contacts between Lee Harvey OSWALD ; ‘

ae and the DGI prior to the assassination of President Kennedy. *.A report on
: the information thus obtained is. attached to this memorandunt."

we 19 =


400000

oy
- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

19 May 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.°

19 May 1964 CSCI-3/781,386 Subject: Paul DIMITRIK (aka Pavel

22:May 196

Subject: Allegations: of Pfc Eugene B. DINKIN,.U.S. Army, Relative to As-
sassination Plot against President Kennedy... : ' {DDP 4-2534}

"1. Reference is made to paragraph 2 of your memorandum, dated February
12, 1964, requesting that the Commission be furnished copies of dissemina-
tions relative to the assassination of President Kennedy that were sent to
the Secret Service. : :

"2. Immediately after the assassination the CIA Station in Geneva, Swit-.
zerland, reported allegations concerning a plot to assassinate President
Kennedy that were made by Pfc Eugene B. DINKIN, U.S. Army, serial number
RA-76710292, on 6 and 7 November 1963, in Geneva while absent without leave
from his unit in Metz, France. Available details of this charge, together
with information on its exploitation by Alex des FONTAINES, a Time-Life
stringer in-Geneva, were disseminated as OUT Teletype message’ no. 85770,

on 29 November 1963. This dissemination was sent to the White; House,
Department of State, and Federal Bureau of Investigation, with a copy to
the Secret Service. i : :

"3. Since the Geneva Station cooperated with the U.S. Military Attache in
assembling information on this affair, and the ‘Military Attache reported
through his channels, the Commission may have already received’ information
of PFC DINKIN's allegations." ; ;

aa,
DYMITRUK)
"l. Reference is made to your communication of 1 May 1964 requesting tra-
ces on Paul DIMITRIK (aka Pavel DYMITRUK). i © fe

"2. The files of this Agency. contain the follewing: pertinent'information
on one Pavel DYMITRUK, born 28 February 1924 in Stariye-Derend, USSR, who
appears to be identical with Subject and his wife Lydia DYMITRUK: . . .) '

oe. ; ae
wee bao

4 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General:.Counsel etc. ‘7 _

Subject: Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States Embassy in Canberra,

Australia, Relative to Planned Assassination of ‘President Kennedy.
. hott .. (DDP 4-2624]

a 120: - if

(A) (B)

&
Navy
* Navy

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

Navy

é
Warren Comnission


400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

"l. I refer again to paragraph two of your memorandun, dated 12 February
1964, relative to disseminations to the Secret. Service made by CIA.

"2. On 24 November 1964, CIA received from the Department of the Navy a
copy of a cable from the "Naval Attache in Canberra, Australia. IN 67327,

TOP SECTRET, later downgraded to SECRET), reporting a telephdne conversa-
tion the previous day with an anonymous individual who had d scribed him- .
self as a Polish chauffeur for the Soviet Embassy of that ci This indi
vidual, while discussing several matters of intelligence interest, touched
on the possibility that the Soviet Government had financed the assassina-
tion of President Kennedy. Reference.was made'in this cabte: .fo the Teceipt
of a similar anonymous telephone call on 15 October 1962.

"3, Upon receipt of this cable from Navy CIA ‘took the folloying action:

mwie
"A.
In the opinion of, the Australian authori
ties, the caller was a crank. , . . of i
' i A ue
. " ‘he
27 May 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel efc.

Suhject: Letter Accusing the Chinese Comiunists of , Plotting /the Assassina
tion of President Kennedy. : ,

"1. Reference is made to paragraph two of your memorandum dilted 12 Febru-
ary, requesting copies of disseminations relative to the assassination of
President Kennedy that were sent to the Secret Service. te

"2. Shortly after the assassination the United States Embassy in Stock-:
holm received a-letter, mailed on 25 November 1963, which actused the
Chinese Communist of plotting this act. This information way, disseminated | 8
on 9 December to the White House, Department of State, Feder. ‘Bureau: of.
Investigation, with a copy to the Secret Service. The exactiitext of. the
dissemination is attached to this memorandum. -, ‘ 4

"3. In view of the fact that this letter was received at the“ United Stated
Fmhassy, the Commission may have already received information about the
document from the Department of State."

i

21:

(a)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission



400000

3 June 1964 Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc. -

3

t

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT: -

Subject: Documents on Lee Harvey OSWALD Furnished by the Soviet Govern-
ment. . . (DDP 4-1764]

"1. The Soviet documents forwarded to this Agency under your letter of 20
May 1964 provide some additional detail on OSWALD. The information in
these documents parallels that already available from other sources, and ~°
does not contradict our previous information. The documents do clarify
somewhat OSWALD's alleged occupation at the Minsk radio plant. giving the -
original Russian terms used in decsribing his job. 2... w

"2. The following points relating to the documents are worth. noting:

“a. A significant omission from the materials: provided is the letter
OSWALD allegedly wrote to the Supreme Soviet requesting Soviet citi-
zenship. ... . : _

"b. OSWALD signed a receipt in 1960 for his Identity Document for
Stateless Persons, and a second receipt’ in 1962 for his ‘Identity |
Document for Foreigners. The similarity of wording of the receipts
regarding his understanding of Soviet residence and travel regula-
tions further supports our belief that such regulations are identical
or nearly identical for bearers of either type of identity document.
This means that OSWALD should have obtained permission ih July 1961:
to travel to Moscow, but, as we know from other cases, fhilure to ob-
tain travel permission is not uncommon and notia seriousi offense.

" : :

" AY io . _
"ce. The includsion of Marina's exit visa 'application'.:is singular

i in view of the fact that the Commission had; not requested information -

on Marina. ... . ; :
"d. The Soviet translators for: OSWALD's ¢arly. documents “are believed
to be identical with persons already referred to in OSWALD's ‘diary'.
"3. Fhe format and wording of subject documents. appear to bé consistent
with Soviet practice." . nie : on

June 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

(A)

(8)

P.C.

P.C,

,

- RECIPIENT(S) ‘-

pS

Warren Commission

Warren Commission


400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - °° oa ' vy) ws

Subject: George and Jeanne de MOHRENSCHILDT .: 0: yf [DDP 4-2770)

"1, Reference is made to your memorandum of 31 March 1964 requesting any

z information on George and Jeanne de MOHRENSCHILDT that is available in CIA

{ files. Our review shows that the files contain reports received from :
j other U.S. Government agencies, primarily the FBI as well as some informa- . f \
tion developed by this Agency in 1957 and 1958. The review also produced .
references to information in the records of the Coordinator.of Information

and the Office of Strategic Services. According to records;of those agen-
cies, George de MOHRENSCHILDT had been considered for employment in 1942,

but was not hired because he was alleged to be'a Nazi espionage agent. No
information developed by CIA (or its predecessors) before the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy had established any link between the de MOHREN-
SCHILDTs and Lee Harvey OSWALD or his family. : 7

"9, You may also wish to make inquiries at the Office of Naval Intelli-
gence, the Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Department of the Army;
the Department of State, and the Civil Service’ Commission because these
departments also have information about George de MOHRENSCHELDT."

5 June 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel ete. e P.Cc. Warren Commission
. Subject: Allegations Regarding Intelligence Training School in Minsk,
USSR. “ : 4 [DDP 4-2844]

/ 8 ; ;

"1. Allepations of the existence of a Soviet-intetligence And/or sabotage

training school in Minsk, USSR, have. come to the attention @£ the Agency’

from press reviews. Also, there had been an informal inquiry from a mem~

ber of the Commission, Mr. DULLES, very recent] on'this detail. I take

this opportunity to furnish to the Commission ‘the information which the
ot it

Agency had on this topic."

t

"2, A careful review of CIA files hag producéd, no hard information regar~
ding Soviet intelligence or sabotage training: ih Minsk since 1947. . en ee re ; te

_5§ June 1964 CSCI-3/781,543 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. 7 FBI FBI

"1. As your Bureau is aware, the Clandestine Services is developing a
machine collation program to handle information on. the Cuban intelligence
; : : che foal 7 .



i0 June 1964 = = Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, Genéral Counsel ,étc.

i Bos 4
12 June 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel étc.

~ DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT

and security services. As yet, the data base'is very narrow, with the re-
sult that any search against the program has a very limited chance of sucé
cess. Nonetheless, a search was made using those items of information whi
which are known relating to the two letters from Havana, one dated 10 No-
vember 1963 and addressed to OSWALD, and the other dated 27:November 1963
and addressed to the Attorney General. 4 : 7

"2... . The print-out listed 19 names, of which’ only two: seemed to
hold any interest. A review of the files on these two eliminated one,
leaving a single candidate. * os an

. Pot ose _

"3. At the same time, a routine name trace has been run in the main index
on the name Mario del Rosario Molina, the name’ with which the 27 November
1963 letter was signed. There were no traces ‘on that name, :but informa-
tion was available on two persons with somewhat similar names. ... ."

4

Subject: Information Concerning Jack RUBY (aka Jack RUBENSTEIN) and His
Associates. : : on : 3 i

"1. Reference is made to your memorandum of 19. May 1964, requesting that
this Agency furnish any information intits files relative to Jack RUBY ,
his activities, and his associates. Examination of CIA records has failed
to produce information on Jack RUBY or his activities. We also have no in
dication that RUBY and Lee Harvey OSWALD ever knew. éach other, were asso-

ciated, or might have been connected in any mahner whatsoever." -
. : . an ia f.

4.

Subject: Letter Relative to Assassination of, President Kennedy Sent to
United States Embassy in Costa Rica.: od ‘|; [DDP 4-2988]

: t oe
"1. The information given below, and the attachment to the ‘memorandum,
are furnished in order to complete the Commission's: file onlcrank letters
generated by the assassination of President Kennedy. Since the letter was
received by a United States Embassy the Commission may have received. this
information previously from the Department of State. ,

"2. The United States Embassy in San Jose, c

a Rica, in Iate November
af . :

-(A)”

(B)

FBI

State

- RECIPIENT(S): - .

Warren Commission
FBI

Warren Commission


400000

ec

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

1963 reccived a letter claiming that the assassination of President Kenned
was part of a plot to kill all the presidents of the free world. This un-
dated letter, portmarked 28 November 1963, Heredia, Costa Rica, was ad-
dressed to Ambassador Raymond TELLES. This document was disseminated to
the White House, the Department of State, and: the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation. It was not sent to the Secret Service. —

"3, This letter was adjudged to be the work of a crank. Details of the
document were passed to the Government of Costa-Rica. No further informa-
tion on the writer of this document, who signed himself RODRIGO C.,. has
ever heen received." a MB ; ; :

it

29 June 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General. Counsel etc.

1 July

Subgect: Investigation of Allegation that OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco.
oe ([DDP 4-3347]

"1. The reference memorandum [FBI Memorandun ,i' dated 10 June 1964] con-
tained a request that this Agency conduct inquiries:in Tangier, Morocco,

to resolve certain allegations concerning Lee Harvey OSWALD. Our inquiries

have been completed and the results show that the entire story concerning
OSWALD's presence in Tangier has no basis in fact.'.

70 June 1964 CSCI-3/782,058 Subject: Investigation. of Allegation that

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco.

ho .
“Reference is made to your memorandum, dated 10:June 1964, requesting this
Agency to conduct the necessary inquiries to resolve allegations that Lee
Harvey OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco, The inquiries were completed on
19 June 1964 and the results show that the allégations have no basis in
fact. Ydur representatives, Mr. S.J, PAPICH;: was verbally notified of.
the results and, at his suggestion, the Tesulth were forwarded, by memo-
randum, to the President's Commission on the Assassination of President’
Kennedy. A copy of that memorandum is attached for-your files and: for any
additional action you may wish to take." 00 bv 5: : uo

wo i
1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subicct: Lee Harvey OSWALD's Arrival Time in Helsinki on 10 October 1959.

a [DDP 4-3889]
25: .

(A)

(B)

FBI

FBI?

- RECIPIENT(S), -

.

Warren Commission
FBI

FBI, Warren Com-
mission

Warren Commission



400000

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

=

"1. In response to your memorandum of 25 May 1964, we have established «|.

that the only direct flight from London to Helsinki on 10 October 1959 was
Finn Air flight 852 which arrived in Helsinki at 2333 (11:33 p.m.). If
OSWALD had taken this flight, he could not normally have cleared customs
and landing formalities and reached the Terni Hotel downtown by 2400. (mid-
night) on the same day. This is based on the judgement of officers in
this Agency familiar with the Helsinki airport.. :

‘ "2. We are presently attempting to determine if OSWALD could have taken a
more circuitous flight from London, with a stop at Stockholm, Copenhagen,
or some other city. Any additional information received wiil be forwarded
to you promptly."

2 July 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.
Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. . : . [DDP 4-3401]

"1. The following remarks have been recently attributed to Soviet Consil
Pavel Antonovich YATSKOV in Mexico City regarding the subject.
\ |

‘I met OSWALD here. He stormed into my office and
wanted me to introduce and recommend him to the Cubans.
He told me that he had lived in the USSR. I told him that
: I would have to check before I could recommend him. He
‘ Was nervous and his hands trembled, ‘and he stormed out
of my office. I don't believe that a person as nervous as
OSWALD, whose hands trembled could have accurately
fired a ’rifle.'

"2. Our Mexican Station has checked its records for the period OSWALD»
was in Naxico City and has advised it is quite possible that OSWALD
though hé had talked with Valeriy KOSTIKOV when he actually had spoken

to YATSKOV; or that he first spoke to KOSTIKOV who turned him over to his
superior YATSKOV. , : oe

"4. A copy of this memorandum has been forwarded to the Federal Bureau of
Investieation." : _ os

& July 1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

03} - RECIPIENT(S)* -.

?

———

Warren Commission
FBI

Warren Commission
FBI


DATE

LOST/MISSING MATERIAL

THE DOCUMENT OR PAGE(S) LISTED BELOW WAS/WERE MISSING
DURING THE DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW BY THE HISTORICAL
REVIEW GROUP, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE.

DOCUMENT NO. (22 (2 freF ‘DATED:

OR

PAGE(S) 27

FROM:
cra gop no. JFK

BOX NO. SY

FOLDER No. ___ (8


400000

ERE Ne a

27 August

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - (A) (B)

Subject: Statements Reportedly Made by George and Jeanne de MOHRENSCHILDT
Concerning Lee Harvey OSWALD and the Assassination of President Kennedy.
‘3 [DDP 4-3479]

"1. The information furnished below has been received from usually reli-
able sources and consists of statements reportedly made by the de MOHREN-
SCHILDTs concerning Lee Harvey OSWALD and the assassination ‘of President

' Kennedy.

“a. Shortly after the assassination of President
Kennedy, bedrae and Jeanne de MOHRENSCHILDT were
among the guests attending a cocktail party in Haiti.

+ + The de MOHRENSCHILDTs were asked if there was —t-———
any substance to the view expressed in certain foreign}
periodicals such as L'Express, a left-wing Parisian
weekly newspaper, that the Kennedy assassination was
a plot organized by Dallas millionaires. George de 7
MOURENSCIILDT said that President Kennedy was hated i
by the Dallas elite, and he felt that it was very i
likely that certain reactionary elements in Dallas had!
organized a plot to get rid of Kennedy and used a dis-,
turbed person such as OSWALD to achieve their ends. i
Mrs. de MOHRENSCHILDT agreed fully with this thesis.

q
"3. A copy of this memorandum is being forwarded to the FBI."
2 3 :

. i .
1964 CSCI-316/00856-64 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal Secu- FBI
rity, Russia - Cuba. Reference: Your Memorandum dated 28 quly 1964,

"Ll. A review of the results of monitoring Soviet foreign broadcasts at
the time when an interview with Lee Harvey OSWALD had apparently been
taped was conducted with negative results. Therefore, it is: assumed

that such a tape, if broadcast at all, was aired over a local USSR facili-
ty for internal consumption. t

"2, With respect to the same question, Yuriy NOSENKO was asked if any
attempt had heen made hy the Soviets to exploit OSWALD for. propaganda
purposes, such as Radio Moscow broadcasts, telecasts, or lectures.
NOSENKO replied that. this had not been done either in Moscow or in Minsk.

- 28 -

- RECIPIENT(S) *- -

“FBI


400000

28 Angust

1 October

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - a, :

NOSENKO later reviewed this statement and confirmed it."

(NB: Reference document is FBI request to CIA requesting the latter to
identify broadcast by OSWALD in USSR sometime hefore early January 1960.)

‘

1964 Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel ¢tc.

Subject: Konstantin Petrovich SERGIEVSKY . [DDP 4-4479]
"|, The files of this Agency contain no identifiable traces on Konstantin
Petrovich SERGIEVSKY or on his sister. :

"2, We have no information which would either confirm or refute allega-
tions that Lee Harvey OSWALD made one or more visits to the city of Gorky
in April and May 1960 or at any other time.

"3, The term 'mokrym delam' which appears in the notes which SERGIEVSKY
brought with him to the British Embassy may be translated ‘wet affairs' or
‘liquid affairs'. It is an expression or jargon used by the KGB to :refer
to activities involving kidnapping or assassination. ..- «' " :

(NB: RANKIN asked for Agency comments concerning allegations of a Soviet
citizen,.Konstantin Petrovich SERGIEVSKY, who walked into the British
Embassy’ in Moscow on 29 July 1964.) . i

1964 - Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc. ,
Subject: Joachim JOESTEN .. [DDP 4-5110]
"], Attached are repnoduced copies of a set of German documents seized by
the U.S. authorities at the end of World War II. The documents concern
Joachim JORSTEN, author of Oswald: Assassin or Fall Guy?, Marzani §& Mune
sell Publishers, Inc., 1964. The captured documents in this set range in
dates from July 1936 to November 193 and contain the statement that
JOESTEN had been a member of the Communist Party of Germanyisince 1932.
You will note that the attention of the German secuzity organs was direc-
ted at JOESTEN as early as 1936. At that7time the Communist Party had beey
been outlawed in Germany and the German authorities apparently had begun

collecting information about JOESTEN and his activities. Their investiga-

tion seems to have culminated in the proposal for revocation of his Ger-

‘

bo = 29 =

P.C.
‘State

~ KBULY LENT (LO)

>

|
Warren Commission

Warren Commission,
FBI, State, I§NS



400000

_nlist Party membership card (Mitgliedsbuch) -No. $32315.

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - (A) (B) - = RECIPIENT(S) ~ |

man citizenship.

[Comment: The assassination of President Kennedy was the subject of a book
by Joachim JORSTEN entitled, "OSWALD - Assassin or Fall Guy?" (1964) pub-
lished by Marzani and Munsell Publishers, Inc. of New York, in-which ;
JOESTEN states that there is no question in his mind that OSWALD was a mi-
nor CIA agent. Marzani, a known communist, was coauthor of a pamphlet,
"Cuba Vs. CIA". published in 1961. - JOESTEN is revealed in a German Securit
Police memorandum, dated November 8, 1937, to have been an active member of!
the German Communist Party (KPD) since May 12, 1932; he was issued Comnu- -

Cited in "The Soviet and Communist Bloc Defamation Campaign", Congressional
Record - House, 28 September 1965, pp. 25391-25393.] : a

‘
>
