# 104-10098-10420

## Page 1

104-10098-10420 .

S

таом

ACTON I

INFO-

DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

57

it 61

CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI, CI/OPS, C1/1C 2, F1, F1/INT 2, AF 4,

VR

= F. CRET 232305Z

24 DEC 63 IN 86 437

DIR CITE MEXI 7508

REF: DIR 90835

I. ! AMBASSADOR

HAS ALWAYS EXPRES: DO SP: CIAL INTEREST IN PLACEMENT

IN

PRESSA CONSEQUENTLY BELIEVE HE WOULD APPRECIATE

BRIEFING FINE POINTS OF PLACEMENTS MADE SIMULTANEOUSLY THROUGHOLT

HEMISPHERE OR ANY INDICATION OF XURARY SPONSORED "CHAIN REACTION".

¿SUCHÃAS CARTOON FORWARDED HQS FY

ATHED PRESS HIGHLIGHTS,

PRIM3

ED AFRICA, LATER REPEATED EUROPE - SEE MMMW-|1878).

MOTHERVISE AMBASSADOR'S MAIN INTEREST HAS BEEN IN MECHANICS

KUWOLF WORK. HE ALWAYS ASKING "WHAT WOULD HAPFEN IF (YOUR PRINVIPAL

AGENTI VERE ARRESTED AND TALKED?" TIE CO! CEPT OF CUT-OUTS,

OUTSIDE CASE OFFICERS AND NOTIONAL PACKSTOPPING

(FOUNDATIONS,

ECT) SEEM TO INTRIGUE MIM. THUS SUGGEST BRIEFING INCLUDE STRONG

DOSE OF TRADECRAFT.

3. AMBASSADOR HAS ALWAYS BEEN LEARY OF "POLITICAL ACTIDN",

WHICH NE CONSIDERS RISKY. FOR THIS REASO! STATION HAS NEVER REEN

EXPLICIT IN EXPLAINING DUR RELATIONSNIS WITH SOME PROJECTE.

NE BELIEVES STATION "HELPED FINANCIALI"" "UT DIE NOT ORIGINATE

NOU DEFUNCT LIFIZZ PROJECTE DOES NOT ENCI OF DUR SUPPORT OF

SECRET

AY OTH THAN THE ISSUINO OPHCES PE

*14936

---

## Page 2

ACTION

NO

PAGE 2

IN 864913

LISIREN AND BSLIEVES OUR SUPPORT OF LICCAX HAS

EN LINITED TO

OTHER NEXE STATION

KUNOLE PROJECTS GENERALLY XNOWN TO HIM.

ONLY STATION HUNDLE DEVELOPREHTAL PROJECT NOT REPORTED TO

InS PREVIOUSLY IS SUPPORT OF

THIS IS RESULT OF DIRECT REQUEST FID: AMASSADOR, AS STOPCAP

MEASURE WHEN HE VETOED LISPIR PROJECT, TO DATE STATION SUPPORT AND

SECURELY ARRANGED PUBLIC RELATIONS COUNSEL HAS RESULTED IN

CANT DETTERMENT THIS

RET

SECRET

NON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUNG OFFICIES PROMISTED

Copy No

31 Di

---

