(oetotas]

———

[oc #73130 |
| Ole # 73/30)
7 November 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 08

SUBJECT : Meeting with Mr. (Herbert Mane11)

oO
1. Yesterday afternoon I met with ar. (Manc11) in the
company of Messrs. Shepanek and Holmes,» The purpose of the
meeting was to ascertain Mr.(Manell' 3) Reollection of cer-
tain events in Mexico City in connection with the visit of
Lee Harvey Oswald there. I told Mra(Manell\the question
that had arisen over the memoires 8 in Scott.

23
2. While Mr (Mane11) has not read the Scott memoires,
he said that he cotld offer speculation on how Scott came
to write such a thing.o>Mr. Scott at times was "prone to

exaggeration." Manel} Said that Oswald's visit came at

the end of the summer. The summer was a period when lots

of "kogks" came to Mexico and contacted the Soviet Embassy.
Sianeli said that this proved to be very time consuming

rom the Station's point of view as the Station was obliged

to report ‘to Headquarters and appropriate Embassy components

on these people when they were identified. He considered

this function to be one of "no profit" operationally,

although it was of course a necessary CI responsibility.

ve crewman anne

3. When Oswald identified himself in a telephone call
to the Soviets it was viewed: by en be being a meaning-
less instance of one more probable useless contact to

eport; _for the Station had no record or file on Oswald.

oO Manell's)wife, a part-time employee, ended up writing a
Cable. No one thought much of Oswald, and Win Scott signed
off on the cable without question.

4. On the question of photographic coverage he said
there is a practical explanation of why there were no

photographs of Oswald. He said the work was very boring.
He believes that the Mexicans were simply not photographing

22405

eR IMPDET CL orsaital

ee oe

1


everyone. He is categorical in saying that neither he nor

his wife ever saw a photograph of Lee Oswald. While neither

he nor His wife reviewed all the photography (a responsibility

of Anne Goodpasture) he would have seen it had it existed.

He feels that Oswald's appearance was so distinctive that

it would have made an impression on him. He said that in

his meetings with the HSCA he had told them his personal

convictions, which he still holds, that there was "no

conspiracy at the Station." He worked the Soviet target

i c nd yeuae more than likely have seen all pictures. In sum,

: (Manel and wife are convinced that the Station had no
photographs of Oswald; and that the Mexican photo LP
operators are probably alone responsible for not having

j taken pictures of Oswald's entries or exists of the Soviet

7 Embassy.

03 5. Following the assassination of President Kennedy,
(taner? recalls a number of Agency personnel listening to
adio“broadcasts. When the name of Oswald occurred, his
first reaction was, "My God, that's the man I reported on."
| Someone else may have responded similarly but he recalls
{ that as his reaction. This led to a cable to Headquarters.

6. Speaking in a rather all-inclusive way he said
that there were no photographs of Oswald there then, so
there were none to burn or destroy afterwards.

°

7. (tan211) mentioned the fact that the HSCA people
pressed him on why Tom Karamessines had signed off on a
communication for a name trace. He could not understand
it. Holmes told him that the Division Chief had signed
the cable, which required the next highest person's
release °3(Manell1 clearly had not thought of that, and in
our discussion We observed that the HSCA investigators
were asking him (in the field at the time) what had
happened at Headquarters at the time.

8. He repeated that there was no conspiracy and he
told the HSCA people that they were "barking up the wrong
tree."yz (Manel) said that at the time he testified he did
not know about the statement in Win Scott's memoire so
there was no occasion to comment on it.

03 :
9. Mr. (Mane1D said that he would speak with his
wife to see if she had anything‘to add to what he stated

Gin)


ep

|
H
H
i
5
{
i
i
i

above. He reported later that his wife had nothing addi-

tional to offer. I told him that I would prepare a draft

memo of the conversation and show it to him before putting
it into final form, which was done.

oe FD A

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:
1 - OLC/Subject
1 - OLC/Chrono
1 - Shepanek/Holmes
1 - Mr. (Mane11)

oF

1
