d-01604009]

»

SECRET

INFORMATION REPORT COVER SHEET : to cetee

15-3 23
vRom: [Eesiana, Londeaf LEPLeIT [orz}oes
CASE OFFICER: Aaron c. LaciNestea ACA. 8 February 1968 oan
REPORTS OFFICER! Horsan. C. sustroneNC FEB 15 i233

RELEASING OFFICER: Adrian B, mastori77)

DISTRIBUTION:

: a (Hee fee
+ jG-14 2 Heater Gee for Geo Pe :

., © MOPIPIT

SUP DATA:

Bubject: Activities of David Graham McCanns (Dubois) _
Bources Brace

_Mote.to Headquarters: It is suggested chat thie report... ......

jestaunno disseminated in the memorandum =~
.Y see format, hecevae of: the Limited. ee
eee customer interesi.



FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

CEADING 5 SOWECK me Cangtonty ier unly ofabis, Rely mide Dre meaty mivlie Wt main jseutad
to coor of Gntent bower ot Wes gmanan offs armnaoes, h RgGiey crm bo hoot ented te ted waa

APPAAIAL OF Contr,
Freer one 1 Confomat by efter ixteypeniot ted salahin mmrom. 2, Seatetly won, 2 Aemibly wee 4 Doshi 5 Deuba

: SEC RE f/xO POREIGN DISSEM - B
comanr RBORT HO. oeh288
SRRCT «Activities of David Grahas McCanus DATE OF azPoeT ;
(Dubois) ‘ i
MO, PARES fea Hain
NOS .

DAR OF carly Novenber 1967

PUKE AR

DATE ACQ, 22 Decenber 1967 !

wouncs A foruer Marxiet intellectual who continuss to maintain close association ;
within radical and leftist circles, Source's reporting has been generally y
faliable in the past. He obtained this information from Ahned Gora t
Ebrahim, an official of the Pan Afircenist Congress (PAC), who talked Li
with Subject in Cairo ‘a early Noveaber 1967, 4

1, ‘David Creham McCanns (Dubois), son of Mrs, Shirley Graham Dubois,
ie vorking 1a Cairo from the North Awerican service of Radio Cairo
and for the Egyptian Gazette, These two jobe keep him extresely
busy; however, he expressed voma doubt about the longevity of his
Radig Cairo job, He felt chat his nervices there would end if the if
atation's broadcasting vare ruduced as part of President Nasir's
general achene of relaxing tensions with the West, eae)

Z~_ Ahwad®Gora Ebrahim. eaid that.MeCana.could.not be described. as... if

staunchly pro-Chinese in his political sympathies, inasmuch as both eet
he and his cother — who aleo resides in Cairo — ere strongly it
attached to the East Garman government,

SR CRE T/NO poRUEGN DENeEH



This euterial.crsinias inlormation effecting the Rational Detenee of the Uslted state suckin ibe messing of the Eapigoat Laws, Tite
Te“US Seca 43 end S04 the tummies or terelotine of Wish ie AY manect to aa eanetuorioed peru He oroksbited BF Y..

SE CRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEX

COUNTRY nevort no. CS
SuMECT “Activities of David Greham McCanne DATE DISTR.
(Dubois) :
NO. PAGES why
REFERENCES : .
DATEOF early Novesber 1967

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. 22 December 1967 FELD REPORT NO.
Twis 1s UNEVALUATED wronaaTiOn, SOURCE @RADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APFOALSAL OF CONTENT (S TEMIAIE.

1, David Graham McCanns (Dubois), son of Mrs, Shirley Graham Duboia,
is working in Cairo from the North American service of Radio Cairo
and for the Egyptian Gazette, These two jobs keep him extremely
busy; however, he expresaed sone doubt about the longevity of his
Radio Cairo job, He felt that his services there would end if the
station's broadcasting were reduced as part of President Nasir's
general acheme of relaxing tensions with the West.

. Ahmed Gora Ebrahi= said-that McCann could not be described as
@taunchly pro-Chinese in his political sympathies, inasmuch as both
he and his mother == who also resides in Cairo —- are strongly
attached to the East German government,

