104-10229-10027| ° wate

: fe _ Vocational Rehabilitation
{ State of Florida
: July 8, 1964

fae

ape

ere

This subject has beon soon three times at taa Psycholoszical Service
tee Center, On April 9, 1954, wa had @ long interview with hin in which
ho explained the history of his soizures, - Oa Juno Ll, 1954, he

roceived the TAT and a Freo-Ascoctation Test, ucing a List of words
that was ocpeclally preparcd for him, Cn that date, he promised

to coma back to bring a List that he had mace of all his soizures
aince Septembor 1942 up to the present time, with an indication of
the emotional problems that ho had on tho. daya ho wao sicke This
liat was drought, by him, to our office on June 30, 1964. ete

yee

. Reason for Consultation |

To try to determine 4f thore wore any Lata at factors influe
encing this subject's epileptic seizires.

pe EE of Psycholozical Investigation

‘In a.case such as this, it. ie obvious that organic factors are tho
Gain doterainant of the patient's disace, but from the interview “
and tho tests, we receivod the impression that the patient's onotion~:
al state has often played a certain role in trizzoring his cptleptic
soizurea, Peychothorapoutic treatment that would enable this, paw i
tient to gain better control of hia emotions would obviously be highe
ly beneficial for him,

a _

syne

: Intollisenca

This subject was not formally tested in order to determine his I.Qey

tut from his conversation and from hie responses to the personality

tests, it is quite clear that he is a man endsved with a superior

intolligenca, althoush some impairment has ncecegsarily resulted bo

couse of his frequent epLlloeptic seizures, end, recently, because of

i his brain surgery. He was not tested for intellinence becouse ir vas

' +nos feasible to do so cinco his operation had been dono just a few

4 weeks ago and the possibility of some transient effecta of the sure

'| .  gheal procedure might still influence any results. Howaver, from a

1 strictly ¢Linical vicwpoint, when comparing, the subject's reaction

{ bofore and after the oporation, the amount of impairnent produced

i « by the oparation does not scém to bo really considerable, and, on the*
other hand, there 46 a remarkable decrease in his anxietye



ya

an : July 8 1954

rea this patient was-12 years old, ithe ne.

loreal aosrad that ha
d becn having for years, eqns BTe 6 *

Cot Pre carone

om - Guat
% had. strony, ivalent feelings toucrd here
She was loving and kind ‘to. hig, but at tho sone tine donincerin; and
Over=protective.s The first epileptic acizure of tho patient. took
place after an arguement with hia mother wio threatened to scold hime

when the cubject was 16 years old, -he started treatment which was
successful for olovon yaars. Unfortunatoly, when ho was 27 ycars old,’
-.@t a timo that ho was fighting epdinst Batisea's dictatorship, ha vas
Adentified as a conspiratox andi cent to Jail. Thero he was beaten
by tho police or. guards ina really savage way and thie was tho bee
ginning of 4 now stage in hie Life in which he froquontly suffered
from epileptic colcures, It 1a Lmportant to point out that thie boe
- gan when tho pationt.was the object of an unjust aggroscion by. authe
rity fisuros. i

cere Anong tho most importayb paychological conflicte of the patient at

time ne yy

-tho prosont tima, we notice the following:

@) . The ceparation from his parents. It 1s obvious that the
Subject has otill strong ambivalent foclings toward his
- parents and especially toward hia mother. “He hatos hor -
nie - Ovor=protactivenoss and ‘domineering attitudes, but at tho
pues same tino, he feols ead about.the soparation fre his fantlye

b) Tho idea of boing Iimited'in Life because of his epilepsy.
This problem was vory dooply folt by the patient sinco he

_ Was a child, becauoe at that timo hia mother used to restrain
hin froa having a normal boy's Life duo'te tha seizures, He
wae considérad as a boy-with’a vory bad temper and "seen
sometines by hie neichbors ag some cort of a devil", This

. Moans that’ tha patient developed very strony agrrecsive tone
éencies as a reactton to this frustration. At Present the
Patient fools that. thore are many goals in life that he will
naver be ablo to roach because of hia discase. For instanco,
concerning a profession and a cuperior education, # tee

¢) The patient has had some failures in love which woro very a
frustrating for hime He haa never boen formally engaged and
whon he approaches a girl he always hae in mind tha idea that
ae Cannot foel woll with @ woman that would Pity him for his
disease, : : F :



eataatiieal ZO sic x)

i .
H . : ode : July &, 1964.

6). For several montho the patient hash ad a conson-Law wifo, here
in Miami, but it secma that ha haa never been dacply in love
with her. It 40 rathor a mittar of sex dnd compantonship.

*Hovertholesa, he often argude with her because cho ia a Gomte
mooring person, who "wanta to bo-a mothor for him". Sono of
tho patient's rccont epilaptic soizures took place aftor an
arguement with here

@) .Tho political situation in Cuba is another source of cuffere
ing “forthe patiant, ac it 10 for all Cuban oxilos. It id,
however, important to note that the patient's reactions to
Batista and Cactro*e dictatorchins wore not only the rosult

of his patriotic feolinga, but also tho exproasion of his .
dooply rooted aggresaivoneta against all forms of unjust oe
ox unreasonable authoritarian -bchavior.

+:Joao Ie Lacaga, PheDe
Clinieal Peychologist
PSYOHOLOGLCAL SERVICE CENTER .

