104-10428-10206)

74807 secur Goa oo ooo 6
ie
We7 o- STAFE

ACTION: LA-B (792) INFO: FILE, VR» DCI/PA, DDURU, CS/RE+ DOR. C/PCS.

Chm, CCS#2, Clea, UbMORT, Cun2, EPS/EG=2+ IP/OMS, LSN/IL, UDPL=D,
Tas CGCwe, GLC. SALLO/O, SE“d. SECURH3. SIA, SIA/FL, SIA/IC, (63/m)
KS

were en Rie ee nen een eee e wenn cence cee eee.

78 U2S6730,_ PAGE 001 IN 0252730
TOR: 2701512 JAN 78 L_ [#3099

SEC RE T 2700082 JAN 78 STAFF |

CITE 43699 ly
g

™~ i
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTO. a Sf) |
are ey YS |
WNINTEL RivVIEW® MHSPLASH ri u |
KeRS: A. UIRECTOR 154131 8, :
B. DIRECTOR 154956 .

ce 43602 0736567 \

cb. 43710 ny

1.  REVIEN OF FBI DOCUMENTS RELATING TU LEE HARVEY.

CSWALO TRANSMITTED BY TM=25066 WERE RECEIVED AT ;
25 JAN AND HAVE BEEN REVIEWED. COWCUR HOS ASSESSMENT |
CONCERNING POTENTIAL DAMAGE WHICH CAN BE DONE TO i
OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES AS RESULT THEI ECATION.
SHOULD DOCUMENTS BE SURFACED MEXICO CITY, BELIEVE We CAN H
ANTICIPATE THAT SEuIOK MEXICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND

uk WILL BE SHOCKED (AS THEY WERE IW
CASE UF PREVIOUS REVELATIONS) THAT ANY GOVERNMENT COULD

WILLINGLY REVEAL INFORMATION SO EMBARRASSING &ND COUNTER :
PRODUCTIVE TO RELATIONS, i

2. IN ADDITION TO THE DOCUMENTS LISTED IN REF B»
THERE ARE OTHERS WHICH COME CLOSE 10 CONFIRMING COMMUNIST
ALLEGATIONS COPE RWING RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN AND
ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS.— HAUS WILL
RECALL THAT KDIMPACT/1) SPECIFICALLY WARNED (REF D) ABOUT
wITh THE MINISTRY UF GOVERNMENT BEING MADE PUBLIC
CAND SHID THAT THIS WOULD "CAUSE GRAVE PROBLEMS. FOR ALL
CONCERNED." SUM TOTAL THESE DOCUMENTS WILL GO A LONG WAY
TOWAROS CONFIRMING RECENT COMMUNIST ATTEMPT TO EMBARRASS THE
WICESPRESIDENT GY SURFACING BANNER ARTICLE IN PROMIENT LOCAL
NEWSPAPER ABOUT CIA USE OF MEXICAN OFFICIALS TO SPY Oly
MEXICO, CREF C). SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS WHICH wILL SUPPORT THE
COMMUNIST ALLEGATIONS ARE AS FOLLOWS:

&- BLIND MEMO BY FBI DATED MARCH 16, 1964 CAPTIONED,
LEE HARVEY OSWALO." FIRST PARAGRAPH: "A CONFIOENTIAL
SOURCE ABHGAL WhO IS THOROUGHLY FAMILIAR WITH THE WORKINGS
GF THE MEXICAN MINISTRY OF GOBERNACION JINTERIOR) Has

SECRET



13-00000
XY

SECRET
STAFF

78 02587304 PAGE 002 IN 02587368
CORRECTED COPY TOR: 270151Z JAW 43699

FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE PROCEDURES
UTILIZED BY THE MEXICAN IMMIGRATION SERVICE IN CONNECTION
WITH THE ENTRY AND DEPARTURE OF NON@MEXICAN CITIZENS INTO
AND OUT OF MEXICO."

B. URGENT CLASSIFIED TELEGRAM TO DIR/FBI FROM
LEGAT MEXICO CITY, NG. 360, DATED 2e7=64, CONTAINS STATEMEN
"LIC. LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION. WILL
BE NOTIFIED RE PUSSIBLE POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION OF ROJAS, HIS
IDENTITY AWD ALLEGATIONS MADE BY ROJAS RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION
AND ECHEVERRIA'S COOPERATION REQUESTED TO CONDUCT SAID
EXAMINATION.”

C. MEMO TO DIRECTOR, FHI FROM LEGAT, MEXICO. DATED
APRIL 28, 1964 REVIEWS INVESTIGATIUNS CARRIED OUT BY FBI
AGENTS IN MEXICO C1TY. UNDER "SA JOSEPH B. GARCIA" ON PAGE
THO APPEARS THE FOLLOWING REPORT: “HANDLED LIAISON WITH THE Hl
MEXICAN MINISTRY OF GOVERNMENT, RECELVING COPIES OF DOCUMENTS
AND DATA FROM LICENCIADO (ATTORNEY) LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING 5 i
MINISTER, AND THE SUB=DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IMMIGRATION, ~ |
LICENCIADO RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA. ALSO HANDLED LIAISON WITH |
THE MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE AND ARRANGED FOR DELIVERY
OF A COPY OF THE SIGNED STATEMENT OF SILVIA TIRADO DE DURAN
BY CAPTAIN FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS."

D, BLIND FBI MEMO DATED MAY 5, 1964 AND CAPTIONED
"LEE HARVEY OSWALD” SAYS ON PAGE 9: "ON MARCH 24, 1964,
CAPTAIN FERWANDO GUTIERKEZ BARRIOS, SUB=DIRECTOR OF THE
MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE (DFS), ADVISED THE THIRD
CONFIDENTIAL SOUKCE ABROAD THAT HIS AGENCY HAD CONDUCTED
NO INVESTIGATION IN CONNECTION WITH THE TRAVEL IN MEXICO
OF LEE HARVEY’ OSWALD AND DID NOT HAVE IN ITS PUSSESSIUN ANY a
PASSENGER LISTS FROM ANY BUS LINES."

3. OTHER DOCUNENTS OFFICIAL RECOGNIZE THAT CIA IS
ACTIVE IW
MEXICO CITY, HAS JURISDICTION OVER AND MONITORS THE

“ACTIVITIES OF THE CUBAN AND SOVIET EMBASSIES, AND CONDUCTS i
"SENSITIVE COVERAGE" OF THESE INSTALLATIONS (PHOTOGRAPH) *

PRIOR ALLEGATIONS OF CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES OF THE FBI IN

MEXICO ARE ALSO CONFIRMED BY STATEMENTS SUCH AS "UECLASSIFICATION

COF ThE DOCUMENT) WOULD DAMAGE OUR OPERATIONS IN MEXICO

CITY," REFERRED 10 IN AT LEAST FIVE DOCUMENTS, Two UF THE

DOCUMENTS GO SU FAR AS TO IDENTIFY THAT THE FBI HAD A

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT (AN ACCOUNTANT) IN THE CUBANA AIRLINES

OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY. ANOTHER MEMO DATED APRIL 1, 1964

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

78 02587304 PAGE 003 In 02587304
CURRECTED COPY 2701512 JAN 78 43099

ACKNOWLEDGES THAT CIA HAD AN OPS INTEREST AT ONE TIME OR ANOTHER
IN THREE ANTI=CASTKO GROUPS, THE DRE, JURE. AND 30TH OF
NOVEMBER.

4. HOS STATED IN REF 8 THAT IT HAD MADE RECOMMENDATIONS
TO THE FKI/FOIA FOR FURTHER DELETIONS IN. AND DENIAL OF,
CERTAIN DOCUMENTS. wE ARE ESPECIALLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE FOUR °
DOCUMENTS LISTED IN PARAGRAPH ONE ABUVE. PLS ADVISE URGENTLY WHAT
ACTION WAS TAKEW BY THE FBI CONCERNING THESE SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS.
PRESUME THAT ALL DOCUMENTS NO® MADE PUBLIC AND THUS TOO LATE
TO DENY THEIR RELEASE.

5. IPLANKING PROVIDE COPES OF ALL THE
DOCUMENTS TO (KOIMPACTZ) IN ORDER TO ALERT HIM WHAT TYPE OF
PUBLICITY MAY BE FOI OMING.

6. FILE: 200-120-150. E2+ IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE SECRET
