# 104-10326-10080

## Page 1

104-10326-10080

_SECRET

MHENO

95-0938136

SENSIND :

PAGE :

EC

R.

E T

STAFE

TO :

IMMEDIATE

031840Z DIRECTOR 346331

FROM: LIMIT CHIEF/PCS INFO CHIEF/NR, NR/PGO, OGC/LIT

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: REQUEST TO CONTACT FORMER NWBOLTON EMPLOYEES

REF: NONE

TEXT:

J ACTION REQUIRED:

PLS HAVE STATION OFFICER CONTACT TWO

FORMER NWBOLTON OFFICERS BY COB 5 JULY AND CONTACT

_JEOR ASSISTANCE IN LOCATING IDEN B PER PARA 3B.

AS YOU MAY KNOW, AWBOLTON HAS BEEN COOPERATING WITH

*THE ASSASSINATION>RECORDS REVIEW BOARD,

THE PANEL CHARGED WITH

*RELEASING DOCUMENTS ON THE<JFK ASSASSINATION, >BY CONDUCTING A

DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW AND PASSING APPROPRIATE DOCUMENTS.

PANEL HAS SELECTED ITS FIRST BATCH OF DOCUMENTS TO BE RELEASED

PUBLICLY, WHICH CONTAINS THE TRUE NAMES OF UNO FORMER SVLIONZ

DEFTCERS WHO RETIRED COVERIN IN THE 1970S LAND. TO HOS KNOWLEDGE

IN ORDER TO CHALLENGE THE BOARD'S

DECISION, WE NEED TO SHOW THAT CERTAIN CONDITIONS EXIST PURSUANT

TO THE LANGUAGE OF THE APPLICABLE LAW.

THUS, WE NEED THE INPUT

OF THEGWO FORMER OFFICERS TO COMPLETE OUR RESEARCH AND WRITTEN

RESPONSE.

WE REQUEST STATION'S ASSISTANCE IN CONTACTING THEM AND

DEMONSTRATING TO THEM THAT THE REQUEST FOR INFORMATION IS

AUTHORIZED AND LEGITIMATE.

INWBOLTON

SPECIFICALLY,

WE WOULD LIKE AN OFFICER WHO HAS

DOCUMENTS TO CALL THE FORMER EMPLOYEES (IDENS

AND B), IDENTIEY HIMSELF AS A -COLLEAQUE-FROM-THEIR-FORMER_

EMPLOYER AND REQUEST A BRIEF MEETING.

IF IDENS ARE AMENABLE,

EXPLAIN IN PERSON

THAT HQS IS

FACED WITH THE POSSIBLE

PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THEIR NWBOLTON AFFILIATION.

WE NEED TO KNOW

THEIR DATES/PLACES OF ALL OF THEIR TOURS,

THE MOST SENSITIVE

OPERATIONS IN WHICH THEY WERE INVOLVED AND ANY OTHER NWBOLTON

EQUITIES THEY ARE AWARE OF THAT WOULD BE AFFECTED BY REVELATION

OF THEIR FORMER EMPLOYMENT.

STATION CAN_TREN_ CABLE THE

PINFORMATION SECURELY TO HOS.

A. WIN THE CASE OF IDEN A, HOS ALREADY CONTACTED HIM

AND WAS ADVISED HE NEEDED MORE TIME TO EVALUATE THE CONSEQUENCES

BOE LIFTING HIS COVER.

BELIEVE HE WOULD BE MORE COMPORJABLE

]

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

CONE: C/PCS

INFO: C/NR, C/ORMS, LIMITO, MDSX, NR/PGO, ODPD,

ÔGC/LIT, PCDORECORD, FILE (2/P)

95 0938136

ASO

PAGE

003

TOT :

031840Z JUL 95

DIRECTOR 346331

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO

95-0938136

SENSIND

DISCUSSING

PERSONAL_AND-ORERATIONAL-DATA IN PERSON_THAN OVER AN

OPEN PHONE.

JNABLE SO FAR TO GET A CURRENT ADDRESS AND PHONE NUMBER FOR HER

PAGE :

WOULD BE CALLING IO COORDINATE LOCAL EFFORTS TO COMMUNICATE

DIRECTLY GET ADEN B. PIS LET

US KNOW SOONEST IF, AFTER

CONTACTING NVIAG

STATION IS UNABLE TO LOCATE IDEN

HOS REGRETS THIS SHORT TIME FUSE DURING THE HOLIDAY

AND TRULY APPRECIATES STATION'S ASSISTANGE-WITH THIS MATTER.

THANKS VERY MUCH ED

5. FTLE:

NONE. DECL OADR DRV

ORIG:

43923); AUTH:

DC/PCS (T

COORD:

WIR/EGO-(---INEO: OGC/LIT (1: REL: DC/NR. CL BX

2051283.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET

2

----

---

