# 104-10052-10059

## Page 1

1104-10052-10059

L UNCLASSIFIED O

SUBJECT: (Eptional)

FRON.:

INTERNAL

'E ONLY

ET COM DENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING: AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION

SECRET

DIR 74830

DATE :

OCT 11 1903

5945-

DAIL "

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Numbor each comment lo show from whom

hom.. Draw a line across column after eoch comment.)

FoN (Order designation, rooft fomenr

building) -

and

SCOTT

WHIT

mance

HAD for phal

1505'6

8.

10.

11.

Tils

15/x/63

12.

Paul NEW P-Cir

SCOTT 15 6/01

13.

DAinTO

1576

COPY ONLY.

COPY FOR TIRE MY TIM

ACTION COPY TO:

MANEZE

44

5..

15.

FORiN

5-52

O1U SETTIONS

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRE

70-1573

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

D

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FORM 1303

11-5.16

(44)

DISTR:

¡CTION:

NFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

OTG

INITIALS

DATE:

FILE:

11 OCT 63

DEFERREÓ

INCOMING NUMBER

EXXXX

ROUTIN

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

£x/63

6453ª

150-8-10-6

EE OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVEMB 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL

NEW ORLEANS+

DIR 74830

24 Yed

WHO DEFECTED TO USSR IN OCT 1959%

OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN

BLUE EYES.

ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAIR,

STATES CITIZENSHIP TO THE UNITED SIATES

INDICATING HE HAD APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP•

ON 13 FEB

THE US EMB MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

POSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATED

HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US PPT AS WISHED TO RETURN TO USA IF "WE

COULD COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE DROPPING

OF ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME."

ON 8 JULY ON HIS OWN

INITIATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE EMB WITH HIS WIFE TO SEE ABOUT HIS

RETURN TO STATES.

SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACTUALLY HAD NEVER APPLIED

FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATION AT

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN USSR AND FOR TEMPORARY EXTENSION

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME OF HIS REQUEST•

APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO OSWALD, CONTAINED NO REF

TO SOVIET

CITIZENSHIP®

OSWALD STATED THAT

HAD BEEN EMPLOYED SINCE

13 JAN 1960 IN BELORUSSIAN RADIO AND TV FACTORY IN MINSK

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP•...

OSWALD WAS

MARRIED ON 30 APRIL 1961 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17 JULY 1941 USSR®

NO HDQS TRACES•

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

COULD APPEAR AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW.

HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO HIM®

US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

ON OSWALD.

LATEST HDQS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

3 year

DUP OF

7-2

4 STATION SHOULD PASS INFO PFE AND PARA ONE T

TPELIDE, ODENVY,

ODOATH ,

ND ODURGE LOCALLY.. INFO PARA

THREE ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.

¿CONT PAGE TWOS

SESREAFON

INCOMING

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-ORM 1303

(44)

(.

JISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INCOMING NUMBER

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

CLASSIFICATION

DTG

NITIALS

INITIALS

TO

INFO

CITE

PAGE TWO DIR 74830- IN 5945

NUMBER

REF AND POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

AND ODURGE.

HDOS ADVISED ON ANY PARTIER CONTACTS OR PENELOICATION

OF OSWALDe

END OF

MSG.

11/16027

SEASICATION

INCOMING

---

