# 104-10007-10345

## Page 1

104-10007-10345

USCLASS FIED

TERNAL

eE ONLY

COr

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional Document Number

988-927 BD

FROM:

for FOlA Review on

SEP 1976

PA SATENSION

Chief, CI/R&A

2 C 17

x7468

TO: (Officer designation, room number, end

DATE

SENTIAL

I SECRET

157565

21 December 1961

building)

'Chief, AF

7 C 32

2. Chief, EE

3 D 31 07

3.

Chief, FE

5 D 31 07

Chief, NE

6 D 31 07

฿ Chief, WE

4 B 44 05

•Chief, wH

3 B 44 03

7.

& DDP

3 C 20 16

10.

": CI/R&A

2 C 17

12.

NITIAL

tai whom.

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

24 84,

Ser.

For Coordination

BEFERRED

24 PES

RID PROCISING SO

PIRAS DIATE HAET

00 Retaln Yn"

LEC

D Destro:

9 0 DEC 1964

3o Dec 30

shoemard.

16 Retention of i:

Deser Wong

This Box 3

NOTE: This Dowran it S

Desired Hsdi-5 = Chairmi Some

and the Dormer Lets se J.

For Signature and Release

21 DEC 1954/

DY 14B

PLEASE CAL!

291605

IT*•

13. PSE

8a56

2111

WEA

FanF

moing

20: 299248

14.

15. RID

FORM

3-62

610 USE PRONOUS

CI/RA

GB28

SECRET

i

BATE

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

_ UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-EI

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

HEADQUARTERS

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

PLISHED

Chiefs of all Stations

INFO.

FROM

Chief, KUDOVE

SUBJECT

ACTON O Warren Commission Testimony - Selected Excerpts

FYI

1. The Warren Commission's Report on the assassination of

President Kennedy focused attention on the magnitude of the problem.

involved in the protection of the Chief Executive. As you know, it is

our responsibility, overseas and in headquarters, to render every

support possible to the Secret Service in the conduct of its statutory

responsibilities in the United States,

and especially when the President

2. The circumstances confronting the Warren Commission

produced discussion and testimony on various aspects of the problem

of Presidential protection and on interagency operational cooperation,

which normally do not find their way into the public domain.

include the acquisition and dissemination of information, consultation,

coordination,

and operational interchanges. I believe you will be

interested in the attached extracts of testimony given before the Warren

Commission by U.S. intelligence and security officials.

fortions have been side lined. I commend these materials for reading

by all officers in positions of senior responsibility in headquarters and

Document Number.

288-927 BD.

for FOlA Revíew on

SEP 1976

FLETCHER M. KNIGHT

261-28124

00300?

DATE TYPED

+c: 1955

DATE DISPATCHED

¡CROSS REFERENCE TÓ

23 Dec. 1964

& FEB 0CT

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Book Dispatch No.

4726

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

100-300-12

S-E-C-R-E-T

OFFICE

CI/R&A•

OFFICER

Raymond G.

ORIG'NATING

TYPIST

Rocca

gwh

COORDINATING

XT 46x

ROUTING

OFFICE SYMBOL

-BLER'S NAME

DATE

orin porr

CI/RYA

3=80--

53b USE PREVIOUS EDITTON. - 1401

OFFICE SYMBOL DATE

DDP

HQ COPY

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

richardtte

DISPATCH

---

## Page 3

13-00000

S-E-C-R-E-I

Dif ibution For

Book Dispatch No. 4726.

AF Division

EE Division

Athens e

Bern

FrankfurtY

Nicosia V

Vienna

Leopoldville +

The above listing has been

reviewed in the EE Division.

/.

(Initials)

FE Division

Hong Kong v

Saigon +

The above listing has been

reviewed in the AF Division.

(Initials)

Vientiane

The above listing has been

eviewed 11

(Initials)

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 4

13-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

Distribution For

Book Dispatch No. 4726

NE Division

WE Division

Tehran V.

The above listing has been

reviewed in the NE Division.

The above listing has been

reviewed in the W

Division.

(Initials)

-2-

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 5

13-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

...

Distribution For

Book Dispatch No. 4726

WH Division

Mexico City v

The above listing has been

reviewed in the WH Division.

/ (Initials)

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 6

13-00000

S-E-C-R-E-I

•(

Headquarters Distribution for

Book Dispatch No. 4726

2

1

2

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

2

1

1

1

1

DDP

ADDP

C/OPSER

C/TSD

C/CA

C/CCS

C/SOD

C/CI

C/FI

C/AF

C/AF/1

C/AF/2

C/AF/3

C/AF/4

C/AF/5

C/AF/6

C/EE

C/EE/G

C/EE/K

C/EE/SA

C/FE

C/FE/CH

C/FE/HULA

C/FE/JKO

C/FE/ PMI

C/FE/ TBL

C/FE/VNC

C/NE

C/NE/1

DC/NE/AA

C/NE/4

C/NE/5

C/NE/6

2

1

1

1

1

2

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1.

1

2

1

1

1

1

1

1

C/WE

C/ WE/1

C/WE/2

C/WE/3

C/WE/4

C/ WE/5

C/WE/BC

C/WH

C/WH/1

C/ WH/2

C/ WH/3

C/WH/4

C/ WH/5

WH/COPS

WH/POA

WH/POB

WH/Plans

CI/R&A

CI/ LIA

CI/ OPS/AF

CI/ OPS/EE

CI/ OPS/FE

CI/ OPS/NE

CI/ OPS/SS

CI/ OPS/ WE

CI/ OPS/WH

1

RID

Originated by: Chief, CI/R&A, Ext. 7468/23 December 1964

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

