OFFICIAL DISPATCH

—— _ c pi sPaTcn No, HSoMaLe
arisces ane 0b ied #bues ones cea
Sissies ten 7
CLASSIFICATION |

. _ : _ Kay

Lo: z DATE: diecinnatics ctriee
Chief of Station,(San Sel vader —
or chief, WH : (6-26
SUBJECT GENERAL~ &
SHELTIE: atgy ODIO
2-26

2h. 1. Referense is made to your obnle( SAL Hic concerning Eunice DI0.
es + 1 Ostobsr 1947 atated that anang verioua prises given by tho
Quatezalan Goverment for prose and postry, one vas svarded, in
last veek of September to a young Costa Ricap Buntes ADIO,
\

2. During her stay in Gustemla City _reoelving the evard,
Seficrita DIU gave two recitations . given in the CTO
aseaably hall, and the sscond t bagard, the ty of Humanities of
the San Carlga Univeraity. fiiare, ! presented Quatemalan powh,

Migual Angey/ ASTURIAS. Cae aN Of <

3. Mas O10 etyle ty Ate y\Forudian. This ie not strange, as
eho is o very ac Neda ae ae way boing a member of the famous
Commmist Literatd ~ Eugenio to whieh Corina Rodrigues
aleo belongs. sNszuanay A :

NEE Se

4e Eunice (DIO vas dasbribed in 1947 es being about tventy-five years
of ago, white, with blagk bsif and black cyes, about five feet five inches
and

personality is pleasing, ami har voice, which de ths most attrestive feature,
easily captivates her audiences, because of its low soothing tena.

5. Her fanatdoies for the cause of Commmiea and her work ani efforts :
vere fully appresiated by the so-called Politburo of the Partido Vanguardia i
Popular in Costa Ries. aici Q)98 °

6 Benne 18.2296], 21. oveaber 1947, nontioned a letter written
ty Joaquin GUTIERREZ Kangol, nox: of tho Costa Rican Anbasi to Wezhingtoap.
addressed ‘to Bunice ODIO in which he“spamkih highly of RORIGEZ, wall
Conta Ai p Commmbet. Ihe source wea by that young.

PAS ABO Coy

SING QFF TC iin OFFICER 7 AUTHE LEAS!
ey a ////
eos SECRET os

CLASSIFICATION



{
|
i
i
|
|
:

GUTIERKEZ vas a suspected Communist and that his close association vith
Communists such ag Corina RUDRIGUEZ and Bunfce JDIO strengthened the
suspicion. =e z
(b-15 s 16330 ee
7. Ina rather complicated docunent,(sLB-1191, 18 September 1950,
which vent to(San Jose and Lima) but not to/San Salvador.) the Colombian

reports on arms

ehipmente in Costa Rican territory which aro rumored may ba intended to
reach Colombia. He was sent to Costa Rica und made a general report
covering the arms shipments, the involvment of the Caribbean Legion, the
infiltration of the Legion by Comminists, and the Costa Rican Communists
who were involved. Diessuseing the Costa Rican Conmunista who had been
obliged to seek sanctuary in Guatemala, Mexico and Venesuela, he listed
Bunios ODIO, Costa Rican poet, Communist agitator, residing in Guatemala.

8. lo other information ooncerniny Eunice ODIO is available at

headquarters, Aleo, there in no confirmation Of the allegation that
Eunice UD1U had been the aintreas of Jacobs ARBERZ,

He Mes

APsatupe

