# 104-10213-10087

## Page 1

110410213100837)

•.."

61283

74-3056

MEMORANDU FOR: Director of Ceniral Intelligence

FROM

: John H. Wallar

Inspector General

SUEJECT

: Washingion Star Siory, 1 Octaber 1576

1. This is fur jour information only.

2. On 1 Ociober 1976 the Washingten Star publisted a rer:

story with an Associated Press credit line, headlined CLA

Viewed Oswald As Iniormation Source (copy sitached).

Contrary to sivorn testimosy, the ClA once con-

sidered using presidential assassia Lee Harvey

Oswald as a source of intelligence information

abou: the Soviet Union, according lo a newly.

In sworn testimony before the Warren Commission,

former CIA Director Richard Helms said the

Coaste ever bat lo, even contemplated" any

The news story, in another section, made the following

statement:

The November 25, 1963, menio explained that

the Agency's interest in Oswald as a potential

intelligence source was due to his "unusual

behavior in the USSR, " to which ho bad defected

in 1959.

---

## Page 2

3. There was such a memorandurs, written by & case

officer then stationed in Par:, recently relcased wier FOlA.

Writing three days alter Pre: dest icurery's assassination,

this casc officer recalled that their had bes interest in Oswald.

As soon as I had heard Oswald's name, I recalled

that as Chief of the 6 Branch I had dis-ussei .-

sometime in the summer of 1960 - with the tren

Chief and Deputy Chief of the 5 Risnaich arcion

the laying on oi interview (s) through ta 0l4 or

other suitable channels . . .

I remember that Oswald's unusual behavior in i:e

USSR had struck me from the moment I had reid

the hrst ObACID dispatch on him, and I told my

subordinates something aricuating to "Don': push

too hard to get the information se need, besause

this individual look= add."

I do not know what action developed there-

after

The Helms testimony before the Warren Cormission

on this subject was as follows:

Mr. Helms. On Mr. McCone's behalf, I had all

our records searched to see if there had been

any contacts at any time prior to President Kennedy"

assassination by anyone in the Centril Intelligence

Agency with Lee Harvey Oswald. We checked our

card files and our personal files and all our records.

Now this check turned out to be negative. In addition

I got in touch with those officers who were in' positions

of responsibility at the times in question to see if

anybody had any recollection of any contact having

even been suggested with this man. This also turned

out to be regative, so there is no material in the

Central Intelligence Agency, either in the records or

in the mind of any of the individuals, that there was

any contact had or even contemplated with bim.

• 2.

---

## Page 3

5. Mr. Helms did state exactly the words quoted in the

news story -- "or even contemplaied." But the context of

those words was what was reported to him as the result of

a scarch of records and memories. To this day those

lamiliar with the extensive Oswald records state that there

is no reflection in those records tha: anyone even undertoo!:

to propose or approve a contaci with Oswald. It rould have

been natural to do so, but apparently any such thoughts did

not progress to formalaction. From the memorandum

quoted, i: is apparent that someone at Branch level lid think

about it, even if nothing ever came of it. This hardly con-

stitutes a responsible or official or serious "contemplation"

of the idea. Mr. Helms' full statement on this point seems

literally corsect in the lull context of his statement, although

more refined qualifications might have reiterated the basis

for his concisions. The news story is misicading on this

point.

6. The news story statement that Oswald was considered

due to his "unusual behavior in the USSR, " is exactly the

opposite of the statements of the quoted memorandun, which

reported the care that should be used if Cewald were approached,

because of his strange conduct.

7. The statement in the news story about MI. Dulles

consulting with Agency personnel on how to answer questions

is basically true.

The interpretation to be placed on this

counseiling will depend on the interpreier. The infercace of

the news story is that Mr. Dulles was counselling slanted

responses on the Oswald issue, thereby tending to reinforce

the interpretation of deception attributed to Mr. Heims.

heist alla

Attachment:

As Stated

cc: DDCI w/atts

DIG:SeBreckinridge: js (P 1407) & Cetorer 1975

Distriberich:

Prig :lies - dresses"

1 Hases - DICI

/azts - Er

silasts - Is Creno

- 3 =

l sates - Sia Sirene

Tacts - 10a

•..an. 0. 1901. 004905

---

## Page 4

Documeni Contradicis Testimony

CIA Viewed Oswald

As Imormation Source

Contrary to. sworn testimony, ise

CiA once considered using presider-

lial assassia ice

o?

Harrey Oswald 2sa

intelligence

iniorm.icn

abouR Lie Sorie: Unior.

according lo:

a nerly released Chicocument

ire

58:057

Delore. lhe

Direcio-

Richard

Helms

said

"'er even

conter

plated

recasad

COCLEETE

Tina 51 27 191

ied CiA olice.

these dogs 21:95

¿sicant John F.

Kerossy 1525

siled in Del

as 011 Ner

23, 1933

owed intel

lizenes interesa

in Oswald 2.1"L3

cussed.

93yi83 on

viewa"

The unidentified officio adces tras

hanction daveioaed

fberasicar.

• THE SEYO HAS ASIONG hur

deds o! pagesi ci. Cocuments frera

the ClasH

The

Farial.

Associaied

nasircle

to Tre

Press

the Frontamo! Lo malias Aci

nd= jocument reveals

former Sia Director Allen Dulles.

while sarring as- 2 nember. of s

Ware Commission, privata. €0.n-

soled CIl circials on the ces: way ia

anster cuestions-from the commis.

Sio:

gas? Can+996 14909910905

Duiles

•bought lanquage shies

made it ciaz. that Lee Harre; C3.

rall was rever an employe or areal

an unide-'i

Tied CIA oricer troke Helms in Apeil

1954.

=5.

air"

"I agora wieh hima laat a carefully

• phrased craial of the charges of it-

dealed clos

"then he appeared beiere ibe com-

mission in

Hay- 1951, lielms,

head

thea

ol. the agenog's. clandestine

services, lesled Unase cat 172:

there's no material in ira Certai

Inciligenes "Agency." either in the

recorcs on in the mind of any o: the

individuals that there. was any cor

tact har er even Corsiempisted wila"

Oswald. •

• TE NO%: 2, 1953, mama exylain::

that the agency's interest in Oswall!

as a potinial intelligence source was

due to his "unusual behavior in tra

USS?," lu shich ha had deiscied is

395?..

"We were particularly interested

in the (deleied) Oswald mighe pro-

vide on the winsk factory in which he

has been empured, on certain see.

tions of lie city lisell, and oi cousse

thought lie usual (deleied) chal

might heig develop (deleted) perso

alisy dossiers," the memo states.

The mamo indicates. tha: Ostaid

was also oi interest to the. CIA. be

cause o' cancer that his Sessis:

•bora write, Marina, might have bean

part el a tread for Soviat women tal

marry icreigners, Jeave the coata

and stille overseas where tacy cou:

serreas spies.

THE MEND ADCUE REagercy's

interest "in' Oswald said the diseus.

sions aboy! Canaid occurred-"some

sime in summer 1980. The auctor!

continued: "i con"t recall it this was

discussed ville Oswald and his fami

ly sere ca route to our country or il it.

wis after lieirarrival."

palace

VATICLE APPRUD

---

## Page 5

nostre center use ont

, 0.

D

To s

Dis

ONF

0

D

ARET

TatE 110+46408469706

STAFF

D

G

ObTe.9418600128

0200462

ENTE

DIRECTOR

CORE: C/S::3 INFO: FILE DCS, D/DUI

C/VEL, DDO/DO, CP/EGI

0

0

arosa0t8 8848499660990968

922257

80=88

D:55S11 2Y: 45

A9m4988

80 9036, 158

P2A

TO: IMMEDIATE

UNINTEL RYBAY

ID WIRE STORY IN VASHINGTOE STAR ON FOIA RELEASE OF GSUALD'S

MATERIAL MANES FOLLOWING STATEMENT, UHICH YOU SHOULD BE LUARE, T

4)

aRUTE: IN SUORM TESTIMONY BEFORE THE UARREN CONNISCIONA

RICHAD LELMS, THEN A BRANCH CHIEF AND LATER CIA'S DIRECTOR,

SAID THE AGENCY NEVER HAD OR EVEN CONTEMPLATED ANY CONTACTS

WITH OSUALD..: NEULY RELEASED DOCUMENT, SAYS UE SHOUED TiC.

TELLIGEHCE INTEREST IN OSUALD AND DISCUSSES... THE LAYING ON

OF INTERVIEUS! END QUOTE. Y

MATERIAL

-2• ABOVE MISCONSTRUED FROM SANITIZED

Z2 RELEASED UNDER FORA,

ERITTEN BY FORMER OFFICER UHO WAS INTERESTED IN POSSISLE USEFUL IN-

FORMATION OSWALD MIGHT HAVE IN CONTEXT OF SOVIET REILITIES: IN

RESPONSE TO DCI CALL TO ALL HANDS TO RECORD UHATEVER THEY THOUGHT

MIGHT BE RELEVANT TO BARREN COMMISSION INTERESTS, OFFICER UROTE THIS

THE 2E1'DOES RECORD BRANCH LEVEL DISCUSSION BUT STATES fIAT

URITER DOES HOT KNOU UHAT ACTION GAS TAKEN. E-2. INPOET-A

DATE:

OES CHAS. BRIGGS:DCM

Via%: C/ISS

EXT: • 2595

CHRONO

•DDP

THEODORE GI,SUASKET ADO

B32#

REPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE LE PROHIRTED

"Cal

---

