# 104-10336-10008

## Page 1

(104-10336-10008)

re CIA IR-09

TION

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

Mr. John Pereira

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

FELBASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Jan 30/o

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re:

Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for

Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious

concern about the status of CIA's responses to the Review Board's requests for

additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to

several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of

requests have not been answered - including some that were made more than two

years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be

forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now

extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct

a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the

highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request

that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests

be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal

requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for

information and records. Please let me krow if your understanding of any of the

following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

'As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,

CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03

HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude

Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic "take" from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE

Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 "A" Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermir 1. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 8

CIA-IR-09 George Bush Computer Search.

The Review Board provided CIA with a copy of an FBI document, dated

November 29, 1963, prepared under the name of John Edgar Hoover, which

states: "The substance of the foregoing information [on the assassination of

President Kennedy] was orally furnished to Mr. George Bush of the Central

Intelligence Agency.... We have been informed that the DO has no record of a

"George Bush" being in the employ of CIA in 1963 with the exception of

Mr. George William Bush who has already given a sworn affidavit that he is not

the "George Bush" in question. It is our understanding that the CIA has

confirmed that the search query included George Herbert Walker Bush prior to

1970. CLA should determine whether George Herbert Walker Bush is the person

to whom the memorandum refers and should provide a definitive statement

regarding the scope of its search and the basis of its conclusion. Any and all

personnel files of George Herbert Walker Bush should be reviewed to determine

whether he had any affiliation with CLA during the 1963 period. Once the formal

statement is provided, this request will be complete.

CLA-IR-10 IG Reports.

CIA will determine whether the IG's office maintains an index or inventory of its

oposed Sine Are 197, er that prepare a repotie tremardling

response.

CIA-IR-11 Warren Commission Critics.

We are asking that CIA determine whether it possesses any files or records on

Warren Commission critics Edward J. Epstein, Josiah Thompson, Mark Lane,

Harold Weisberg, or Sylvia Meagher. The Review Board is not requesting

information per se regarding any FOIA requests by these individuals or any

Public Affairs news clippings. Since April 1997, CIA has had no response and

no time frame for a response.

To the extent that CIA possesses FOIA files or records on any of these

individuals, and to the extent that those records contain information that was not filed

with the courts, such records are being requested for review by the Review Board.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

20 March 1997

SUBJECT: Call from

ce update on OP Name Trace:

(Previous results attached)

OP/FOIA

George Bush

Barry,

Dan called this

morning to indicate that he had

retrieved the folder on George W. Bush, the individual who

had been a GS-05 Watch Officer in 1963.

only other

Information in the file was that George w. Bush resigned

from the Agency 15 February 1964 and went to work for DIA.

Dan added that he still had been unable to locate the file

on George H. Bush referred to in his 14

March call.

I told 'Dan that unless he heard from me in the next couple

of hours, he should consider this a closed

guery.

Borne?

Bonnie

---

## Page 4

13-00000

14 March 1997

SUBJECT: OP NAME TRACE - George Bush

On 14 March 1997, Joe Murphy asked me to conduct an

Office of Personnel name trace on George Bush.

Joe advised

that other searches with DO, etc., were also being

conducted. This George Bush was not the former Det oI

ormer President, but a person supposedly associated with

the Agency in the 60's who may have been given information

about the Kennedy assassination.

2.

learned from voice mail that the OP Information

Officer, l

S57636 was on leave and would not

return to the office until Mondar 17 March I then

contacted the OP/FOIA Officer,

$57639.3

questioned the direct

cans, muscating these

requests usually come through Becky

• Rant. I explained

nature of my request and told him I would follow up with a

on 14 March who said she

would advise Becky of the name trace request.

3.

Mr

called later that day to indicate two

possible hits on George Bush, as follows:

a. George W. Bush

a 5x8 card record identified by No. 237286.

PeriDan, it was not known if this was an

Employee Number and was thought it might

rather be a Security File Number. (Dan)

suggested this be pursued with Office

of

Personnel Security.

The card record

indicated dates of

service as 29 Sep 63 -

•S Feb 64 (resianed)

D.

In 1939.

George H. Bush

microfilm record showing

| #80-01155R00010096,

an indicator that the file was sent to

Archives in 1980.

The file could not be

found.

The name does not appear in any other

OP data bases.

Barry Harrelson has

been advised and is awaiting

results

of other component name traces.

(Bonnie H.,;

Bonnie Hunter

---

## Page 5

13-00000

1.5, lo

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

9 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

J. Barry Harrelson

JEK ProJeCt Officer

in Ourata

Associate Information Review Officer, DDA

CIA-IR-09 - George Bush/ARRB Request

1. This is with reference to your 2 February 1998

memorandum (attached) and our telephone conversation on

6 February wherein you requested that the Directorate of

Administration (DA) review "any and all personnel files of

George Herbert Walker Bush to determine whether he had any

affiliation with CIA during the 1963 period."

The Office of Personnel Security and the Office of

Human Resource Management have reviewed its files and have

been unable to find any documentation to show that George

H.W. Bush had any affiliation with CIA during the 1963

period.

3.

This concludes DA action on this request.

Attachments

ADMINISTRATIVE- INTERNAL

USE ONLY

---

## Page 6

13-00000 1

2 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Fredrick C. Wickham@ DO

Lee S. Strickland

John F. Pereira @ DCi

FROM:

OFFICE:

J. Barry Harrelson @DCI

JFK Project Officer

OIM/HRP

SUBJECT:

ARRB Requests - Priorities

REFERENCE:

ARRB letter did 18 Dec 1997, Status of ARRB Request for Additional

Information

I have been advised by the ARR& staff that an updated "Status of Requests" letter will be sent to

the Agency early next week

The following requests will be listed as priorities to be completed in

February:

CIA-14

Mexico City Station Annual Reports (DO)

CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT

CIA-IR-08 "Family Jewels"

VCIA-IR-09 George Bush

CIA-IR-11 Warren Commission Critics

/ CIA-IR-27 Security Files for Five Individuals

CIA-IR-32 AMWORLD

(DO)

(DCI/IRO and DO)

(DO, DA, DCI/IRO)

(DA, DO)

(DA)

#,4-Pdonre

(DO).

I have partial responses to some of these requests; call me it you have questions or need the status of

your response.

CC:

@DO

Becky L. Rant

Kathryn I. Dyer

Sent on 2 February 1998 at 01:26:47 PM

Freda-JFK files are on my table

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 7

13-00000

U3/JU/87

19002

FAA CUR 144 UADI...

AKKB

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR

FELEASE CE CIA

IN THIS DOCUMENT CA

FORMATION

73/30/00

- Rosen

1

• Ilalson

- ' Hasea

: Howenher 19, 19€3

Tot

-t o

of late

F: Bi

"EC'D - READING ROOM

¿ John Pless, Tos

subjenta

I SASELATICULOR PIRA

HOVENREE 22, 1963

Our Aluid, Torida, OLESON En HOrrenDer 23, 1963, edulsed

thes tha office of Coordinator Of Cabra AltaITE In Mal adulmed

that the Department of stara fenle ven idagulded anth-tastro

Now 2?

1 32 PH '63

which 10 ace true.

: Qur searces and InformeDte EnniliNE WiTh CabIn MATTeTE 1E

-7T-

WHOO

• put and who la clos 8a a mall pre-Castro trut

a naitred that thare iná siduila un? afraid that che

of the Freudent my resale' is strong repruniva ou

lily celera man as ahead, although pro cavito la sets ten

egret the summatractor.

Tolcon

Helmont -

Mobt

Callas

The nomin

• of the to

• Boch oft

Contral, Intaken.

Aemen

O11 62521 by to t010

Tavel .

Trollar

I Direct dr narat intelli

TO TO VIN: Stu So FEETRE UNIT

ZERO

DEC,: 9. 196

itlon

I MOS 0110

1963

1! 283W.23

---

## Page 8

13-00000

03/10/97

MON 21:47 FAX ZUZ 724 U457

ARRE

10 003

/p.

• 2N

sention Donaty iNi

1:- Merlatant ihres of Statt ton Jazollise

impertent of the toil

trontiont Calet, Facurity Diriato

1 = Gifica of danterintellignace and reculty

The Destagen

: Haablagetea, Do Ge

---

## Page 9

13-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

25 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: T. Jeremy Gunn

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

Senior Reviewer

SUBJECT:

ARRB Request No. CIA-IR-9, George Bush

1. The following is responsive to subject request.

2.

The Agency has made a thorough search of its

records in an attempt to determine if an individual

identified as "George Bush of the Central Intelligence

Agency" in a certain FBI document dated November 1963 was

George Herbert Walker Bush.

That search determined the

Agency has no record of any association with George Herbert

Walker Bush during the 1963 time period.

3.

If you require anything further in this regard,

please advise.

J.

Barry Harrelson

---

