# 104-10167-10194

## Page 1

104-10167-10194

DATE

. Bipa to

tO

• DIRECTOR

PROM , HAVANA

ACTION: CAN 5

NFO • DO/P, COP; ADDP/A, S, C 2

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

#CUTING

APR 18 18572 60

PRIORITY

21-17 21-15

IN 27908

PRITY DIR INTO PRITY CARAJPRITY SANJJPRITY MIAM CITE HAVA 4221

RYBAT JMARC

-REF: DIR25182 (OUT 65786)*

1O INFO PARA TO REF PASSED TO AMHAWK EVENING 16 APR. AMHAWK

SAID HE IS PREPARED AND HAS EVERY INTENTION SET ASIDE PERSONAL

AND PARTISAN CONSIDERATIONS AND WORK IN HARMONY WITH THE OTHERS

FOR THE GOOD OF CUBA. HE ALSO AGREED: :

A, MEET WITH AMWAIL IN CARACAS TO CONSIDER BEST APPROACH

TO FIGUERES®

Bo TO PROCEED TO SAN JOSE WITH ANWAIL IN CASE FIGURES NOT

IN, CARA•

C. IF AMWAIL AGREES CONVERSATIONS WILL BE HELD AT CARA WITH

SANCHEZ ARANGE.

Do NOT NECESSARY LIGARI GO EITHER CARA

OF. SANE.

E. WILL ENTER AT NEU YORK THENCE TO WASH AND EVENTUALLY

TO MIAMI•

2. AMMANE MADE FOLLOWEE

• ODSERVATIONS!

A HE NO! ON DEST OF TERMS WITH SANCHEZ ARANGO AND DOES NOT

FEEL SANCHEZ HAS MUCH TO UTTER OTHER THAN HIS CLOSE FRIENDSHIP

SECRET

REPRODUGTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO ONCE IS PROHIBITED.

- 1999

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2/3R

Tau

Copy No

---

## Page 2

LASSIFIEL MONTAN

SECRET

DATE

TO

FROM

ACTION.

INFO

PAGE 2

HAVẠ 4221 IN 27908

WITH FIGURES AND BETANCOURT COMMENTED HE. ALSO CLOSE TO BOTH

THESE MEN®

Be HE HOPES THAT CONSIDERATION. WILL ALSO BE GIVEN POSSIBILITY

ESTABLISHING JUNTA SITE: IN MEXICO AS ALTERNATIVE TO SANJe

: END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT:

*REQUESTED AMHAWK BE ADVISED THAT AFTER HIS ARRIVAL PBPRIME HE WILL

BE GIVEN AMPLE OPPORTUNITY EXPOUND HIS VIEWS TO VERY RESPONSIBLE BOPRIMERS AND OBTAIN•

THEIRS.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

проній о з о бой

so....

---

