104-10176-10020

RETURN 70 cla

Ind Use
lo Not Reproduce

Backgrou

9 September 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FI/Division D

SUBJECT: ZRGRACE - Tokyo Aspect;
George PERIS aka George PERISTEROPOULOS aka
George PARIS, Identifixd Contact of Valentin HAHN
aka Valentine Vasiliyevich KHAN aka Won-shin HAN,
Self Confessed Soviet Agent

Following information was made available to the writer by

em RI 282 CAVE 28 PEIERE fon Oe Coat Aiton He nn

V lentin HAHN. ‘be information herein reported was provided by oral brief-
ing only, and the writer was not permitted to review the HAHN file itself,
Following details are therefore based entirely on notes taken during the
meoting which took place in CARRICO's office on 6 September.

2. Valentin HAHN, who was born as Valentine Vasiliyevich KHAN on
22 April 1908, Slavyanka,, Russia, and who ts a Russian of Korean origin,
admitted in the course of a Polygraph examination administered on an
unspecified date, that bé had acted as an agent ia Sohail of ths Soviets. NAMN
has been in the employ of CLA since approximately 1952, originally in Seoul,
Korea, later in Tokyo, Japan, subsequently being transferred to Okinaw:
He was terminated on unspecified date aa a contract agent of the SR Division,
and currently is or has been-resettled in Hokkaido, whare he has been given 2
Job as a translator with the FBIS listening post at Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan.
During the debriefing which accompanied his Polygraph testing, HAHN advised
that during hie service in Tokyo, Japan, his closest associates had been the
following individuals in the order listed:

a. Arseniy YANKOVSKY and wife.

CIA Staff Employee who
been terminated on unknown date. He was identified as a
Japanese Intelligence agent.

©. John Mc COY and wife - Mc COY was or still {s an employee of
SR Division, stationed in Japan.



eauntl

seers:
4, Vadim MED! GIA Contract Agent in employ of SR Division
étatloned An] In process of being terminated after

identification ae former NKVD agett, a former Abwehr agent,
and subsequent agent activity in behalf ef the Soviets while in
DP camps,

e. Kasua KANAZAWA - Cousin of Valentin HAHN; atone time was
proposed far operational use by thie Agency. :

f. Charlotte BERGHOLTZ - Close friend of Ansstasiya SNOW neo
YANKOVSKILY,

g- Golli-Grigorevna and Marguerita PODSTAVINA - PODSTAVINA
is the Godmother of Arseniy YANKOVSKIY.

ho ween. t=. eermnrr - Sia Gait emproyee of SM Division
tf donde: ‘over. Former FBI
employee.

4. George PARIS (Spelling as picked up originally by Office of

Security in written report of Polygraph examination repert, and
ae therefore likely phonene.) - Greek businessman in Tokyo.

3, In the course of further debriefing in connection with his Polygraph
Test, HAHN clo!med that George F ERIS or PARIS was the individual who had
introduced HAHN to a club in Tokyo located off the Ginza, the name of which
elub translated into English is “Tomorrow ie Too Late". At this club HAHN

- met a Japanese hostess by the name ef Noriko AWAJI, whose real name was

later established to be Noriko MATSGZAKAYA, =hem he quentiy dated.
There {e no further information curreatly available on thie hostess, In the
interim, HAHN has obtained a divorce from his wife, who had been a witting
participant in his agent activities for the Soviets, and is known currently to be
living {n a common-law relationship with a Japanese girl who may be identical
with Noriko MATSUZAKAYA, As indicated above, HAHN and his current
mistress are currently tn Sapporo, Hekkaido,

4. The ex-wife of Valentin HAHN, whose full name ie uot known to the
writer, and the two HAHN sons, are currently being ed for resettle
ment by the Agency in the United States, where all thr cheduled to
receive their U.S, citrenship under CLA sponsorship.

5. With reference to the “Tomorrow is/Too Late” Club, HAHN stated
that e number of CIA Staff Employees of requent or have
frequented this establishment and have dat: bustesses employed

|
|

i
A
r
t


there. Date of HAHN's introduction to the Club and to Koriko MATSUZAKAYA
by George PARIS aka George PERIS was ertimated by kr. Sayle to have been
somewhere between 1954 and 1957. With regard to Valentin HAHN's own
inclinations toward sharing his knowledge of romance with others, Mr. Sayle
: advised thi ice had established that while employed as a contract
: agent of the HAHN bad pimped for CLA Staff personnel in Tokyo.

G. As attachment herewith, the writer appends additional background
data on the professional intelligence activities and contacts of Valentin HAHN
and family as noted during the oral briefing by Sayle.

7. On baste of the above, it can be safely assumed that tha George
PARIS known to HAHN is identical with George PERISTERCPOULOS aka
George PERIS, well-known Tckyo businessman and Honorary Deputy Consal
of the Royal Greek Consulate in Yokohama, Japan, as reported in SCTCKY-63
and SCTOKY-64. It is noteworthy that PERIS' contacts throughout ais career,
commencing v ‘tn his original reported employment in Tientein, China, through
his activities and contacts in Shanghai, China, and later in Tokyo, not exclud-
‘ing his marriage to Aurelia CZZRWINSKA, have been exclusively with
individuals of Russian or Eastern European background, many of them of
Russian Jewish background, who are eitber highly suspect or have been iden-
tiffed as long-time agents of Soviet Intelligence. PERIS‘ reported route of
arrival in Tokyo via Harbin, Tientsin and Shanghai, as well as his employ-
ment by Sondovich Brothars and.contacts with individuals who tie in with the
Boris SOLOMONIK complex and Borsol Fur Trading Corporation, smacks
very strongly of the old Cominterr Apparat of the 20's and 30's. Also it
parallels ibe travel patterns of a namber of individuals involved in the SOBLE
saee, principally the SOBLES themselves who were exfiltrated from the
Soviet Union via Tokyo, Japan, to the U.S.A. and who, most notably of all,
alse were under cover of operating a Bristie Business as is Sondovich Brothers,

8. According to earlier reporting in the ZRGRACE investigation,
George PERIS ie alleged to have been a contact of William Hamilton MARTIN
i in Tokyo, and to have offered MARTIN some type of job or business partner-
ship deal in connection with the rug business. .
9. Mx. Carrico informatly indicated that he personally suspects that
MARTIN's introduction to the fine art of masochistic torture by an unidenti+
fied Japanese female, as reported by Mro, Ardelle GASDA to FBI agents,
may have been eifected at or through his patronage of the ‘Tomorrow is Too
. Late” Club to which he may well have been taken or introduced by bis friend
PERIS, This possibility, however, is subject to further investigation.

10. As tnitial fotlow-up 4 les as 4, outgoing cable
of 7 Sept. 60 requesting further check-out of the Club, etc. was prepared.
Qen
» Sbuti
i iz 3
m2
_ i th CMY

i
|



A second cable to be pent by Privacy Lank to Seoul, Korea, has also been
drafted, and requests check of PERIS' arrival, activities and contacts,
departure from Korea subsequent to 28 January 1960. This cabte bas beea
presented separately for your approval and may likely be sudject to revision,
wherefore no copy is attached. It ie further suggested that Céfice of Security
be authorized to pass to KSA Security Officials working on this the
information on PERIS relayed in above ables, such information to
be properly sterilized of course, and that NSA ia turn be requested to check
and obtain from U.S. Navy Personnel Records iuil copies in duplicate of the
ouginal reports on the specific duty stations or assignments, including dates
of service at each, to which MARTIN and MITCHELL were <etailed, also
detailed leave records, travel records, and other pertinent background data
Contained in such files, to cover the entire period of their respective service
with the U.S. Navy. It is also euggested that NSA officials be requested to
obtain similar detailed original reports in duplicate from the Denartment of.
* to eres chee porsoa of MAKILN'S civilian employment in Japan,
with special emphasis on any reports of MARTIN's extra-curricular activitles,
contacts, club memberships, identified personal contacts with persons not
employed in his own office, leave travel, etc., which may be reflected in
official records. One copy of all such reports are requested for thie Agency,
to permit further checking of known or newly identified contacts be may have
had in Japan. :

ANITA POTOCKI

1 Attachment: as stated
FIU/D/AP:mem

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - ZRGRACE File
1 MARTIN 201 file
1 - PERIS file
1 ~ chrono

tt

EYES CAIs

'
|
|
|
}
i
1

