# 104-10181-10049

## Page 1

104-10181-10049

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

EX - 786

5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: "American Defectors to the USSR"

1, The attached material was part of a soft file entitled

"American Defectors to the USSR", which was set up by SR/6

(Support) around 1960 and maintained by various SR componenta

The compilations were derived from a variety

of sources, and contain both classified and overt data.

2. In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to CI

Staff. In most instances, basic information was then abstracted

for the US Defector Machine Program, In all instances in which

has teria was uniqued into she apropriate 201 fic

or represented a valuable collation effort,

, along wit

3. It is suggested that any dissemination of this data should

03

Orig - CI/MRO

1 - RD/FI

1 - SB/RMO

1 - C1/R&A/

1 - CI/R&A/chrono

J03

SECRET

1261-187527

здро

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECKtI

0÷15

CLOSESA Fladiair, 212=37927

dola:

Cared ned to faith drint Comp tirt, west Vernery

All itenr through 19 irch 1if3 cone iron Cirito files.

.OL

not a ver imorta. on

lor to defection. Livia Da reacted tint he was a daB agent, though

probaolo recrited aiter ascirment to i13th. vi

wife reconted that it before defection in had been very depressed aix had.

lost a lot of none: carolie.

'ві, a.d...

A...

reaschs were pres aably

enotional state an fact of imy counterentures goiced by arrest of 154

i arents recently.

te also hac parents in iSi.

te reccived soviet cit

izenship sone inc that sale month, accordine to a july 1961 press article.

27 Aurust 1060.

Reuters reported interview iith him on 'oscon TV: usual

expose of lo so activities in rest Germany, Us-is-a-armonger line, etc.

Lone type thin was also jut out in press relersec at this saie period.

his past history an deirielin on Intell mot inties in test vermany.

19 ovenber 1960. His britis! wife silliin and their three children, sio

had returned to England after his celection, sailed fron lonuon for menin-

Erad on the LAtili to join him.

Late lovenber ICi0, Their arrival t'er hin into cooternation, because

he was aireacy havin second thor to about his cecision io defect.

Circa Lecenher 120. ife cororted by letter to tie iritish libassy

¡occo:, in icatim nor presence in L'vor, where he hid been resettled.

3: 1v 1961.

The el issue of Histi i lirainy had an article in the sane

propanana a vein: his past, "S intell activities, etc.

Indicated he had seen

• oviet citizen since angust 1960 ani was livin in ivor. life later reported

reened quite content

His paretos lived with the in sue mirtent: seven people !

exit

Sarly 1962. Still no action on her exit request, but she afraid appea

to brit bit in fear di reprisals. she called at trub re hor exit and filled

them in on events to drie.

Into Her. s2. Er::

21 varca 1962. Le eccouparded ire and you eut child to arit sab asa,

afraid to 1o to 15 abassi, was Interiesed in Erit i by is end cecy dos.

he sold he ane do to t sit house meal sit euleren eut in a .

•ife had been issued vorit internal pasagart iur forei nara, on basis her

i allis

SELMET •

261-257527

---

## Page 3

SECRET

irit sessuer: and no celers l? regrest.

tie oldeck and youn-est

chiliren wore on nor for cocunent because on ter trition rescort, but the

midle one had been bor. in the i

as a lo, citinen, an had an exvired

!'.S. passport.

ine hai receied sorict exit-reentm visa valid for 90 days

and did not tell then that she planned not to return.

1 duest 196ê. i British noassy recrecentative enlled on nir in i'vor

where ie was siving iit oldest child.

there was nicole child? ind jourgest

if aidn't accompary nother to unglard? He "had reen stojected to fairly fre-

quent questionings bo the is in i'vor since ic visiter. the babass, in roscow

An Anerican acquaintance no ms in a similar position

ant had visited the saerican -toass, , had been taken

off for questioning by the 1GB Immediately on leavin; the building."

9 narch 1963. lie was interviewed by factallet malliax, bueland, when

living with notier. somewhat an asonistic

to interviewer and told him she

had nox deciced ratrickers it her duty to return to the USSR and felt that

they would lst her.

it'sband had wired saying be sending oldest chilo out te

her, but she had vired back sajing not to.

It ras at this interview that she

said he had seened content with his lot,

Ropcared like job as trait

translator/librarian at L'vou Polytechnic Institzte, and seemed like living:

with his parents.

SEGRET

УДД

---

