# 104-10408-10039

## Page 1

104-10408-10039

WH/COS: 344-74

10 January 1974

MEHORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

Salvatore Giancana and Richard Cain

REFERENCE:

Chicago Tribune Articles of 23 and 31

December 1973

1. A routine name check was conducted on Salvatore

Giancana with negative results.

A check was then made with

the Office of Security to determine whether their records

reflected that one Salvatore Giancana was ever employed by

CIA as alleged in the referenced Chicago Tribune article of

37 • December 1973°

We were advised that any inquiries con

cerning this matter should be made to Mr. Breckinridge,

Deputy Inspactor General.

WH/COG touched base with Mr.

Breckinridge who said that he had received a copy of the

referenced article.

2.

We have developed the following information on

Richard Cain, subject of the referenced 22 December 1973

Chicago Tribune artiele.

Richard S. Cain was born in Chicago,

Illinois in October 1931.

He dropped out of the first year

of high school in 1947 and enlisted in the U.S. Army where

he served until discharged in 1950.

Following

his army sergice

he was associated with

investigative enterprises in Hiant and

Chicago.

In 1956 he entered the Chicago Police Department

(Vice Squad) where he remained until 1960.

Concurrent vith

that employment he operated the Accurate Laboratortes, a private

investigative business. Listed below is a chronology of CIA

contacts with cain:

E2 INPDET

CL BY:

054555

A.

Fall of 1960 - Cain initiated contact

with the DCD Chicago Flela Office and yo

untarily provided information on the activ-

itles of Cuban exile groups in the Chicago

from file

Quittin

SEGRET

CAN 1272141

5130175 0765mn

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

-2-

June 1961 - Caln contacted Mr. Lonmann,

of the Chicago Field Office, to report an

approach made to him by a Mr.

ho reportedly was negotiating with the

President of Panama to investigate communism

in Panana.

was to assist Kroupansky in

this endeavor.

Eity by a ciA

Summer of 1961 - Cain was met in Mexico

staffer, identity unknown,

purpose unknown.

Pros Paober.

October 1961 - Cain wrote to Mr. Lohmann

He reported on his findings of

attitudes toward

the U. S. In certain Central

Amerlean countries and offered his services to

the Agency.

April 1962 - Cain made an unannounced visit

to Agency representatives Winston Scott and

in Mexico City and informed them

of an investigative agency he had in Mexico

(with branches

in Chicago and Los Angeles) which

he used to

proyide police training to Mexican

Government agents.

Cain could provide no proof

of U.S.

He was told by ressis.

Scott and d

cittzensht thal. vas Ambassador dra not

approve of American citizens becoming inyolved

in Maxican politics.

F. & June 1962 - Cain was deported from Mexico

for carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles,

Impersonating

a Mexican

Government official. and

violating his tourist pernit by working.

19 August 1963 • Cain was met at the Lake

Shore Drive Athletic Club and Adolphs Club in

Chicago, Illinois by HH Division staff officer,

Tand the Chier of che chicago Dou

Office.

The contact report states that in tha

distant future Cain would like

to More overseas,

possibly with CIA. It was pointed out to Cain

that his current cooperation with cIa night be

of benefit to him should he apply for employment

with CIA in the future.

At this time Cain worked

- 2--

---

## Page 3

13-00000

- 3--

for the cook county Sheriff's Office.

also was in contact with Cubans in the Chicago

area who were involved in ventures which were

not completely legal.

cain was told of Agancy

requirements in general, and agreed to assist

the Agency by providing

information on under-

cover activities of the Cubans, especially

Paulino Sierra

and his contacts, providing

names of any cubans who might be usarul to

CiA, and noting in particular rumors

CIA contacts in the Chicago area.

26 and 30 August 1963 - Information from

Cain to the DCD Chicago Office was passed to

the Cuba Desk at Headquarters.

The 26 August

information concerned the Student Directory, a

Cuban exile group located in Miani, Florida.

The 30 August informationrreborted

Hiro Cordozo's

interest in purchasing arms.

I. 11 September 1963 -

requested

a POSA/CSA on Cain but there is no indication

it was ever granted.

12 September 1963 - Cain reported to the

Chicago Field Office information

claiming to be representatives of the DRE

Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil - who

purchased arms for the DRE.

Cain planned

rasentatives.

another meeting with the alleged DRe repe

via DCD Washington

and DCD Chicago,

got word to Cain to "get out

of the picture"

as soon as possible and to make

no commitments.

1967 • The Office of Securlty files show

that the FBI in 1967 initiated

an investigation

on Cain because of alleged Mafla connections.

For this reason the FBI recoamended that CIA

terminate its assoclation with Cain.

75 April 1972 - Cain returned to Chicago Fron

mexico City, then disappeared about 1 May 1972

- 3=

SENET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

saying ha was going to Latin America.

Cain allegedly was involved in illegal

international arms deals and on various

occasions stated he was working for cIA.

Hity asked

16 May 1972 - An FBI agent in Mexico

for traces

on Cain.

According to the FBI an Eastern

Airlines pilot had identified Cain as the

skyjacker who forced him to fly to Honduras

on 5 May 1972.

There is no indication that a clearance was ever

granted for the use of cain by the Agency or that he raceivad

any compensation tron the Agensy.

We have been unable to

substantiate Cain's claim that he worked for the OSS during

WW II.

Oryille

Bathe

C/ #H/COG

Distribution:

Orig &

Addressee

- COG Chrono

- COG/OS

Originator

OfT.

0f

Sec.

207-323871

Howe

DDO/WH/COG/OS: CHopkins:rb (typed 10 Jan. 74)

---

