# 104-10103-10340

## Page 1

104-10103-10340

This docusent consist of are

......pages.

Inaber..

.,00p135, Series.

SECRET

ARA/CCA - Mr. Stevarson

July 9, 1065

ARA • George Lister

.. 1

Visit of Cuban Exile Victor Espinosa

"i"! "''

'?.:

In accordance with our conversation yesterday I have set

forth, below a report on the visit of Victor Espinosa. maicl

7.7:

& Venezuelan Christian Democratic friend of mine, Valmore

Acevedo, called me. from New York City yesterday worning.to ask

as. a personal favor-that. I receive a Cuban exile living there

who-bad something. "amazing". to: tell me... When. I expressed mild

skepticism, Acevedo urgently repeated his request and I agreed.

Within a surprisingly-short time the Cuban, Victor Espinosar

arrived at my office (he said he had taken the plane. immedia:

ately):: Espinosa gave-his address and telephone number as

follows: 415 East 52nd Street, HA 1-7875.. A summary of hia

statements follows.ns ro

197.

Espinosa: bas-been involved in Cuban liberation activities

trained by CIA, in both Louisiana and. Guatemala, and was

one

of those who was sent into Cuba prior to the Bay of Pigs.: He

plans to become an American citizen: in August of this -year.

He admires the United. States and American strength and compe-

tence In many fields. He asked a New York acquaintenance of::

his for the name of someone in the Department lavolved

in

Latin American affairs. He-was told Acevedo knew such an

official.

Espinosa asked Acevedo (without, he claims, re-

vealing his story), and the latter called.

me.

A little earlier this year Espinosa received & request

from one of hia reliable Cuban contacts in Europe, asking that

he come thare quickly..:

Espinosa went to Miami, obtained false

Cuban papers, and went to Paris.

There, apparently. in the

presence ot the Cuban Amoassador to France, he met one of the

"top security" men of the Castro regime, wno had come to-raris

for that purpose.

During various meetings, both in France and

SECRET

CROUP 1-

Darnled Froa automatio

congrading and

declaustfication

---

## Page 2

SECRET

• 5.20

in Spein (which Espinosa entered illegally), Espinosa

was in-

formed that there is a plan to overthrow the Castro regime

and to kill Castro and some of his main leaders.

The plot is

led by Cubelef and some of the March 13 Movement, plus (I be-

lieve) some military officers.

They must move very quickly

because more and more people are learning of the plot and

there 1s growing risk of exposure. They are anxious to have

some coordination, or at leat consultation,

with responsible

Americens.: They are not confident that they could win an all-

out fight against the Cestro forces, and are thinking more in

None els control most elme perhe only a few

ruining the Castro movement forever), and then trying to hold

out for as long as feasible. It is essential that they know

what, if anything, the Americans night do to help, now and/or

later, when the coup is attempted. Also, they wished to alert

the United States Goverment to what was being planned..

cyThe: Cubans: might have turned to

the CIA

man in Madrid. However, they believe

Is completely

unreliable.:. A Cuban girl-was sent to Madrid some time ago by

the Castro-people.:

was fooled by her and, being

very fond of women, set her up in an apartment in Madrid.

also arxanged for her to work with the International Rescue

Comnittee. When the proper moment came, four months ago,

flew back to Havana with some very useful files. In these b

circumstances the Cuban plotters have no confidence whatever

They urgently asked Espinosa to be their go-

between with reliable American officials. The "top security"

man returned to Havana, while one representative of the

plotters waited in Spain for an answer.

71.994: 4: 619

- Espinosa hurriedly returned to New York City. He called

O'Brien of the New York FBI to ask that the latter arrange for

his to talk with some serious and reliable man from CIA.

O'Brien did so. Espinose then told the foregoing story, and

more, to @ CIA man named "Hal": Hal Impressed Espinosa

as

being intelligent and reliable. Espinose understands that Hal

or someone else went to Spain to check on his story. At all

events, Espinosa was assured CiA understood the urgency of the

matter and that he would be called within a few days.

A week

hes passed. However, no call has come and time is rapidly.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

-3..

running out. Espinosa's friends In Paris keep calling him,

cautiously asking

Whether there has been some "response",

but Espinosa has had to keep putting them off. Meanwhile,

the Cuban who was

waiting in Spain for the answer has had

to

return.

Espinosa keeps waiting to hear whether the Americens

will play ball with the Cubela's group.

The plot has lasted

for over 18 months, and the plotters plan to go ahead very

soon no matter whether the Americans "play ball" or not.

One

reason is that they ulmost have to go shead now, for the plot

will soon be discovered and then it will be entirely hopeless.

Espinosa also referred to a jeweler by the name of

Teppellino (spelling?), located at 47th Street, In New York

City.

Teppellino works for CIA and has frequent contact with

the Cuban Ambassador, In Paris. The Ambassador regularly dis

poses of jewelry and other valuables made available from cuba.

He does this through Teppeltino. However, the latter foole

CiA. L'or example, the Ambassedor agrees to sell for $80,000.

reppeltino informs cla the price 18 9110,000, and quietly

pockets the difference. On the other hand, leppelino anc

CIA think the Cuban Ambassador does not know he is working for

CIA, but the Ambessador does know.

Espinosa is determined to bring the very dangerous

situation of the Cuban plot to the attention of some top level

official in the United States Government unless he receives

at least some reply from CIA.

Conment:

Espinosa was not overly tense and did not indulge in his-

trionics, but I felt he vas quite determined to push this

matter further if he did not get some response within the very.

near future. I cannot, and do not have to, judge his rell-

ability on the basis of this one conversation. However, 1f I

had to guess at this point I would be inclined to accept most

of what he said about actual events. But of course there are

all sorts of obvious possibilities, including provocation.

In accordance with what we agreed on, while Espinosa was

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

waiting, I returned and told him at some length that of course

was not the sort of thing we got into. However, I added

that I would see to it that someone called him. I further

said that, unofficially, I had enjoyed talking with him.

Espinosa seemed somewbat mollified and temporarily reassured

by this. However, I doubt very much that he will wait longer

than two or three days more before making another attempt to

bring this situation to a head.

*346".n

and toots

:.:.

..:11

1:09. 2953

i.:+

!??oo266::

Was hit

..::

All Milit tis

47600d

SECRE

---

