o4-t0764- 10089

arm

chtel, Contact Civiatoa

support Branch (Crowley)
Calef, Miasiat Fieid vittce

LO 7 | > a
Rand Déevelépeent Corporation *

0 Hat Reproduce

Graut-Gletchauf Telecon of 29 Apr 60

0,08 1.‘ On 28 April 1960 I spent seyeral hours.with an old friend,

03

sin-law of Drev Pearssa, foowe is a resideac <f

= 10519 Carnegie Aveuue,|Ciere:and, Chic, who
Tad been a very gcvd and cooparative source White I was tn Cleveland.
te a clase fzlead (and next-door neighsor to Jim dand | 0%, 0

‘Of Raud Development Sorporation (who needs no t=crodection). Yioy9

2. Wuriag the course of conversation, told me that
withia the last two-chree month», FSU Kebsce’, the Rand employee
who defected tn Moscow, had writica several cetters to his father
fa che US stating that ne wanted to coma heme. Ets father got in
couch with Rand, whe cold his te inform his soa ts yz to the US Eabasay.
The eon repited that he was ‘not able to."-

3. Being che tmpetucus type, Rand then daciseé thet he would
get to the boctoa of the matter, sc he reached f:r the telephong and,
poseibly ts the surprise of all haads, vas able i> reach Webster,
who Is cutreacly tn Lenlngead. Yebster did noz gz into detail but
sad that be vould be (nteresced tn 7193” back tf: the US.

ae hh?

a.) at the tine“cd Mand!s ALA. out rat rae inMoscow,
he left his car in that city. ismedlacely Pree dis telephone
comversstion with Keseter, Baud cold bis wiie tha: dw was goloy to
make hig “last tris” to “he USSR and vouls orinr sack bie car. Accom
panying htm on che trip of OSS, and sou~

seveland and at
one time wes affiltacec with the Middle Eaer loqpacr. He war never
coatacted by me because “this entatic auture, sx cecause cf his
merttal connections. 4 Hancoyant type wag te willing to
try anything once oi .. nary Scaned ofiice
ta Turkey was referre +a oy the Suviets

several years age. pevare, five
ae Bookb

setae idea
ste weberer
sat of



ofr

» SE a.

: of
. Ihave just cecetved-a letter. fron| saying that
neok, Moore, and Bookbloder vill be lekving for the USER on & Nay

1960. The purpose of this notification ts to provide some warning

that an accident usy be on {te way.to happen. You may use it in
any way you see fit, of course protecting our source.

24 ,
Je Please woe[nrnt 700,]

1 sostiz 7. CLEICHAD?
S¥G:ca

eet Chef, Detroit Field Office

gener oo

