# 104-10192-10035

## Page 1

104-10192-10035

808 12A3,X95- Protieras Edition

14.700-80

•Д".

jol"

ГКОМ

J. HAVE

ACTION

IW

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

MICROFILMEO

MAI 27.1903

DOC. MICRO, SER.

MSG. 1.4.3.

ROUTING :

5 i

INFO:

DCI, D/DCI, DDP,

ADDP®

SOD 4, DO/M, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC ?,

FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, RI/AN, WH/C 12, WH S.

ViK,. FILE, CS/RF.

SECRET 1300545,

MAY 13 B2H0Z 65 IN 05754

ODIR INFO LANT LENEZ' SARR. CITE NAVE 11900

" INTEL TIPIC

21-7

AN PAPP

SUPDATA: AMCLATTER-1. FROM MIKE RAFFERTY (FLS PROTES) : AS

it/c/es,

x

BELIEVES IT PROGAGLE THAT BOSCH PLANNING RAVO WITHOUT KNOWLLOGE

OF GILL JOHNSON SINCE BOSCH SUSPECTS JOHNSCN

OF BEING ODECON

INFORMER. RID INDEX. FILED 130454Z

RREPORT CLASS. CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM.

COUNTRY: CUBA

(SUBJ: PROBABLE ATTEMPT BY ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA,

LEADER OF THE

OMIRR, TO CONDUCT AN AIRSTRIKE OVER HABANA, CUSA.

→001: LATE APRIL 124;

YPADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (12 MAY 1965)

UFG-7158

SCURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESS MAN WHO WAS A RESICENT OF HABANA FOR

SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A

CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

IW. COMMENT:

R

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROL ADDED.

CUDEXED ATO CONTRON COPIES

WH/C

WE/REG

12

RELEASING I.WO.

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

13

NAY

0821Z

1965

SECRET

TOCS DB-315/01628-65

TROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASED ON:

UFG 7158

NO PROJECTCANCLATTERI

::.

LIAISON:

ESCLUDEO FRON AUTOMAI

R

P

Y

Y.

O au

Y

N9* 1 359

=81-75/651

EPRODUCTION

RI COPY

19-300-26

OH BITEP

RI. COPY

139:

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onlv

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

NO FOREIGN ASSIM

SEED ROLLEO D'

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

CUBA

TDCS D8-515/01628-65

LATE APRIL 1965

DISTR

15 MAY 1965

SUBJECT

PROBABLE ATTENPT BY ORLASIDO BOSCH AVILA, LEADER.

OF MIPP., TO CONDUCT AN AIR STRIKE OVER HABANA

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAl.

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (12 MAY 1965)

REF

IN 65754

FIELD REPORT NO.

UFG 7158

A MIAMI BUSINESSTMI "HO WAS. A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE

HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE MIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S, INTELLIGENCE.

- !: AS OF 30 APRIL 1955, "MIMO" TAD FINISHED MAKING 45 SOMES.

INCLUDING NOSE FUSES, FOR THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERA-

CION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIPR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLLTIONARY

RECOVERYD. FIELD CONSENT: "MIMO" PROBABLY REFERS TO GERVELIO

UTIERREZ CONCEPCION, A3$3% DW 19TH AVENUE, MIAMI, FLORIDA, WED IS

BELIEVED TO MAKE ALL THE EONES FOR THE MIRR.)

DURING THE WEEK OF < APRIL, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA; LEADER ATi

OF THE MIRR, SAIO THAT HE HAD CONTACTED MELVINAVES, AN AMERICAN U.S A

PILOT, ON TWO OCCASIONS, AND THAT HAYES HAD OFFERED TO BE A PILOT

IN ANY: RAIDS AGAINST CUEA THAT THE MIRR MIGHT UNDERTAKE, PROVICEO

Filende

ThIE MATOrLAl CODLAINA INPOTINALINN AlOCLIDE IDA MAIIORAl DAleDIa of lho l'Dlled Stales Mithla the menaiRE of lDo Erusanco Lems, Tille

18, U.S.C. BeCa. 193 And 109, INo CAMBIASIOn of reTeLaLIOn of WhICh tO MOy mAnner lo an unailbored 5er90a la prelalted by lam.

CONFIDENTIAL

sis FORtunA DISSEM CONTROILEC D'STY

STATE/INE

DIA

ARMY/ACSI

NSA: NIC AID, USIA

Exi

AD/CI 2

CIA/ICE TREASURY CUSTOMS

LENS

COAST GUARD FAX

CORDER

PATRO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

TDG8-315/01628-65 PAGE

THEY WERE INITIATED FROM OUTSIDE UNITED STATES TERRITORY. HAYES

ALLEGEDLY TOLD

BOSCH THAT HE HAD BEEN WARNED AS TO WHAT WOULD HAPPEN

TO HIM IF HE BROKE THE LAWS OF THE NEUTRALITY ACT IN THE FUTURE.

(FIELD COMMENT: HAYES IS ALLEGED TO HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE MIRR

SPONSORED AIR: STRIKES OVER THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL ON 17 JANUARY

1965 AND OVER THE BAHIA HONDA SUGAR MILL ON 13 FEBRUARY IN NORTHERN

PINAR DEL RIÓ PROVINCE.)

3. BOSCH APPEARED DETERMINED TO GO THROUGH WITH HIS PLANS TO

EOMB HABANA: USING A B-25. AIRCRAFT, EXPLAINING THAT SUCH AN OPERATION

WOULD "MAKE A GIG SPLASH." (FIELD COMMENT: FOR PREVIOUS REPORTING

ON EOSCH'S INTENTION TO BOMB HABANA, SEE CSD6-312/01837-65,

DATED 22 APRIL 1965;. TOCSOB=315/08652-65, DATED 24 FEBRUARY;

AND TOCSDB-315/50550-65, DATED 16 FEBRUARY.) BOSCH HAS ALREADY

ANTICIPATED WHAT HE INTENDS TO DO IF HE IS CONFRONTED BY UNITED STATES

AUTHORITIES. . IF THE OPERATION IS STOPPED SEFORE THE AIRCRAFT TAKES

OFF, HE WILL STATE THAT HE IS MERELY DOING HIS DUTY. IF THE CREW

MEMBERS MAKING THE STRIKE ABOARD THE B-25 ARE APPREHENDED AFTER

THE AIRCRAFT HAS EVADED UNITED STATES AUTHORITIES, BOMBED HABANA,

AND RETURNED TO THE MIAMI AREA, BOSCH INTENDS TO EXPUSE THE. OPERATION

AS HAVING BEEN AUTHORIZED BY THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. THIS

ALLEGATION, HE FEELS, WOULD FACILITATE HIS OBTAINING THE RELEASE OF THE

CREW.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, CONKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF. STATE, FSI, CUSTOMS, LENS, BORDER PATROL, FAA A _ USCG.

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

CONTROLLED DESSER,

---

