104-10066-10034

: %
! pensonyunir NoTimiED,

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ASTION UNIT

12°F ~f0066 ~7008f,

caste sec oissem By reniaisltes i Tovar comes 377 ed ww

. | SECRET* ee

T 325447 E1A549 "PAGE 91 IN 459495

“SECRET Botoa5z “DO NOT meEPRO UCE

CITE 33077
To! DIRECTOR, RETURN TO Mw wh
WNINTEL RYBAT REAM[——_—=*dSNCOLOR a
REF: (ONHAS404307 4 MAY 1977

1, SENSITIVE INDICATES THAT ON

3 OCTCBER WILLEM OLTMANS MADE APPOINTMENT MEET WITH
CUBAN AMBASSADOR, THE HAGUE. OLTMANS STATED HE GOING *'To
AMERICA ON 16TH" AND THAT HE " 3S INDEED PREPARED To 60
AT THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER AS ARRANGED".

Ze DURING DISCUSSION, OLTMANS SAID HE ALSO HAD
VISIT SCHEDULED WITH RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR ROMANOV FOR
3 OCTOSER AND WANTED COMBINE Two VISITS FOR SAME DAY.
OLTMANS WAS TOLD AN ATTEMPT BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO
SCHEUDLE MEET KITH HIM DURING SEEK 25 SEPTEMBER HAD
BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OLTMANS COULD NOT BE REACHED.
OLTMANS STATED HE HAD BEEN IN SOVIET UNION THEN,.

3, ABOVE EVIDENCE OF OLTMAN'S CONTINUING CLOSE
CONTACT WITH CUBAN ‘AND SOVIET DIPLOMATS AND HIS RECENT
TRAVEL TO THE USSR AND APPARENT CURRENT TRAVEL To CUBA

SECRET

Oot


CABLE SEC DISSEM B’

Cr. .
Md SECRET
PRRSDN/UNIT NOTIFIED,

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
‘ACTION UNIT

‘ACTION #

WOTAL COPIES RUN BY

T 325447 EIA549

PAGE 22-02
TORS 2910212 NOV 77

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHI!

IN 459495

33277

1S OF INTEREST IN VIEW HIS NOTORIOUS ROLE aT THE TIME

OF THE DEATH OF GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD. LATTER WAS OF
INTEREST BOTH TS SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGNECE
AND HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE, IF HOS DEEMS

JT APPROPRIATE, ND STATION OBJECTION TO CONVEYING ABOVE?
WITH ADEQUATE SOURCE PROTECTION, TO PROPER CONGRESSIONAL
AUTHORITIES« i

4. FILE: 2212155221, £2, IMPDET.

eels SeosESTS ADDL PissEern For one

-- sEcReT
