# 104-10222-10048

## Page 1

104-10222-10048

SÉCRET

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

1. NAME

62153) C 693)

#, $0

A. OPPICIAL POSITION TITLE

Overations Officer

CHECKINI TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

VISIONAL (Soo Marrueliono • Section C)

GENERAL

monastes

ADATE OF BIN!

09

12 Apr 1919)

M

T.OPP/DIY/ 0N.OF ASIGNENT

DDP N: 3.

10, CHUCH (XI PIPE OF REPORT

INITIAL

-Kx

ANNUAL

GS-12/

CUMMENT STATION

Mexico City

NEASIONATEN

DATE REFORT QUE IN O.P.

26. February 1964

SECTION B

W- Mask

18, REPORTINO PERIOO (FrOR» fOr)

January = 31: December 1963

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

probotion. to reassignment

or to seperetion.

Descelbe action token of propored in Section C.

A - Adequate

P. • Profleient

§ • Strong

O • Ritatending.

escollence.

Performance meeta ell requirementa. li is entitaly settsfactory and ls characterised noliter by defleiency mor

Performance lo more than sofleloctory.. Desired results ore beirig peoduced in a proficient menor.

Performance is choracterized by exceptlonal proliclensy.

exceptional In relation to requiremente of the work and in comparison to sia parlormance: of

others doing similar work as to marrant special decognition

SPECIFIC DUTIES

lap up to sinal tho moss Importont specifle dutles porlorned during the eating porlod. Insert rating lotter which bois describas sh

manner

19 which ampluyee performs EACH speellie duty

Consider ONLY ollectivoness in performance of that duty.

àth supervinory reaponalbilities MUST be ratod on thair ability ss supervise findicale nucider ol employee sporve,

All employees:

PRECiPIC DUTY NO. T

Staff Agent responsible for KUBARK interesta in supervision of a complex:

technical operation.

#rECIPIC DUTT NO.E

S

TIAR

Supervision of ten

agents.

SPECIFIC DUTY NOS

Maintenance of technical cquipmen:.

SPECIFIC OUTY NO.7

SPECIFIC DUTY NO 8

SFECIFIC DUTY NOO

RA

CErTER

LETTER

• TI919

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Tube Into accouns over yohing obout tho employee which Influencos his affectivanous In his eutent position such es per-

formanco

•l spacitie duria:

productivity,

porlinent personal proirs or habirs, and

articuler limitations or rulents.. Boiod on your knowledço al employor's overall mutormance during she peting perica

10 FEB "S hasma box corcispending la the stateen which meat accurataly rallacre his level ol pe lomanca.

108* 45

IOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

LETTER

S

it/5

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECTION C

SECRET

Inton Pulled 2=1

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

arose suzzostlone made los improvement ol more porlormance.

en fordian longuogo comporence, ll rogured los currant position.

Amplify de emploin ratings yiren in Goerion U. 90 provide bear

bende toe dorsemining future parsonnel dellon. Monor ol portormoneo el minogoral or supervisory dulles must bo do ocribod, if

oppileable.

This officer, outside tave officer for the LIENVOY Project listening

post, performs his work with exceptional proficiency. He do hard working.

dedicated, putin many hours (each week) beyond the normal forty hour work week.

He do prompt and efficient.

Thie Project lo considored by Headyuarter to be one of the beat in tae:

world and a large part of the credit for this should go to this officer.

This officer worke solely with indigenous personnel.. He keeps KUBARK

Interests paramount, yet does not offend the local. with whom he lives and works.

This officer is excellent as a techniclan - & part of his job which li

especially important.

It is urged that this officer ho Immediately promoted to GS13ja8 a reward

for his cicellent work and atrong dedication to KUBARK.

SECTION D

DATE

Z4 January 1961

2.

EMPLOYEE

UNDKR MY SUPEAVISION

NAS OKIN

CATE

16 danuary 1964

COMMENTS OF ARVINCINO OFFICIAL

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

¡CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF

BIOPIA!

THIS REPORT

es

harles S.

ERVISOR

IF THIS ARTONI HAS NOT DEEN SACON TO EMPLOYEE, DIVE GAPLANATION

OFFICIAL TiTLE OF SUPERViSOR

Chief of station

BY REVIEVING OPPICIAL

TYPIO DA PRINTED NAME AND SIONATURE

/S/ Wlaston We Scott

DATE

I rebmary 1904

OFFICIAL TITLE OR RETIRE DREINE

C//18h:/3

SECRET TOL

- Phloe 811 880218

PAINTED NAME AND SIG

th 26

Z/;N

---

