# 104-10185-10225

## Page 1

104-10185-10225

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TIO NAREPORT

•CENTRAL iNTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

SUBJEcT

Cuba

Rulazi CUZMAN

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00259-64

20 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO

1964

...

PLACE &

• Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. JUly 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments:

1. The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individials mentionou in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Directo tener, de litere nea And, " eneral erectorate of

Intelligence) stationed in Cuba. His address is Calle 45, number

3424, entre 34 y 36, Marianao; his telephone number is 29-3276. 1

Headquarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on GUZMAN.

3/PV

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

INAVY TAIR

iNSA

REP CINCLANT CINCSO # I&N'S

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "$"-)

I OCR

I FBI 2

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION-REPORT

WH/SA/BOBI WE,5/R

1 CILIA

THISA MOB I HE/MADRA CUR&A

1.11

TLX-1533."

3/11

TO PROJECT

CH SATR

(AMMUG-1)

TH, 104199 141

TRM/AN

is !

CSCI-316: 00253-64

---

