104-10474-10061

cEGRET)

Niet Sebi 9 Sopa da Goa

03°
\. 7 susmen: Political ngsatzer = Bivard G. Tienbora (P)
hy : ub Or

hid As ‘The-eenlor MUCAGE Staff has. recruited a muber of individuals
vho have hed extensive experiedce in politics, particularly. es cespadgn
managers and political organizers. Very recently one of these
x

organizers was sent (to| re he was in contact vith the Station

: and the tvo principal ageats of @ political, action project. in
; : addition to his conversations vith these individuals he also traveled
i around the area and talked to a number of unwitting individuals
prior to meeting again with Station personnel and the princtpal agents. i
i i Ao 0 result of his conversations and of :his delving into the lotal

' : : political scene, he was able to come up with en exceedingly informed

assessment of the local political scene ag vell as concrete recomendations |
in regards to the organization of the political action factions being : i

i : é, supported by KUBARK, plus recoimendations as to boy they should proceed : .
! towards mesting their imediate problens which wm the 7/4/44 of

Ls
a mmber of divergent factors into a. coercive orgentzation capable !

of united action against the-communist at the polls. ‘the Station wes i
very pleted vithi the results of thie'indjvidual's TOY aod the Station
: has folloved his recommendations almost tothe letter in their
: recomendations to Headquarters. : i

i

SECRET.’

>|pv


; . -_ 7 Y RETURNTO CLA
Background Use Only
Oo Not Reproduce

2. Wosking along the same Line it is: Headquarters’ feeling that!

A ‘Tichborn could perform a very useful service through condultation ~
Mea, ah METH WE oP salty t rep? .
vith the station, ‘Tony, Varoie' and Senchér Arango; a ‘wells throwgi-

his independent observations and oe vhich-a abort tor vould:
give lin an opportuiitty to make. It 18 proposed, therefore, that

Tichborn be sent to your Station on oY to consult with Station Z
By pate Duct 2 1 vara “Seay ss We AL MY OPER. Eerie

oy
personnel “ne should Like to have your comments on this proposal Ceaidas

8s well as whatever ideas you may have on bow to get 4% ‘Tichborn

H Same ley?

into contact with Varona and Arengo. Obviously this should not be too
“ " dizeieutt once the project is approved and you bave a vorking relationship

vAR se
i SX vent ‘aeary,/ Hovever, in the- interest of expediency, ve would prefer -
The le
be. GOs I that 39% Tichborn be sent immediately evem-before tio final project

mat
sionaae approval. “Although 2% Tiehborn's oa responsibility at the menent

A Me o bee vould be directed tovards better inplenenting Project AHMATOLL;
: pot sel
» the it would also be expected that the Station would remier him every

cee
ral assistance in trying to identify ond possibly talk with political

H ve Sascner

: : “t Cif -, S*oupings other than those represented by Varona, “Azango ‘and the

ID ft fesrecaear |
gad med Hl Nonbechelett Group whieh Project _/+/ATF foresees supporting at this
a
i ‘ecp (CO time, In the event other groups turn up vhich are deemed vorthy of

yee cel eigen

ae
- “WHA. be amended to include then, tneiMebhom,

_aupport, Project 72°77
3. 9% Tchbora was born ip Denver, Coloredo, 1920. BA,
, [Deiversity of Denver, 1944; Graduate School of Econémica, Harvard 5
o)

Universidad Hagional de Mexico, 1955. He is 4 practicing attorney

SECRET.

‘ing



- 19 a Pht Beta kappa; vos preetaen(of the Harvest Lav Schoot nm) 06

: : SEeET, - BRE UAN 76 CA
nt \ nt round Use Only
lot Reproduce

“ta has had @ great, deal of political experience. He tan unsuccessfully
fore high attice(oé the Denceratic ticket 4n California in 1958) He
ANERICA
sts ers el efi hice eile He 1 an

eltizen of Mexican parents, who speaks: native Heien at has a typical :
Mexican sppearancey, Onee-on-the-ground-he Gould pass/a Mexican. He

haa oa several occasions visited in Cuba and at, the time of his

recruitment hm evinced great interest in the tuntion In Cuba and

vas

“asked the recruiter what action, if axy,
‘taking in Cuba. This was an unsolicited inquiry as Cuba had never

. been mentioned in the course of recruitment. . Hecdless to say, his

recruiter nade no statement.which would indicate any active role on

the part of the-tix@snGovernmnt, imentim. .

ed eanled eel, “ns R6@uesred

SECRET,
