# 104-10169-10332

## Page 1

104-10169-10332

Fi! E3

FOOTING AND RECCRO SHEET.

1..

P..}

: " 999

2.

Destit

1=93%

FELON TO FILING

back. Detach back

RiD.

sheet. unless it

takes of

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title show are not

proper. insert proper file no. below

and forward docunent to RID/AN.

CITIZES TIrE preservatiCa.

FROM:.

TO

PROPER FILE NO.

#30a

PILE IN SECTION I ON BACK. I APPROPER OUT UBe Only

COMMENTS

REPURN TO CIA

MICROFILMZD

Doldo: Reproduce

JUN 19 1961

DOCUMENT MIGNOREA! SERVICE

talife the been

WE t

WA

WE-ViCE

IC/NE/

DATE

SOFICAN'A

DECRITER

conmandes.

196086A6B

8/5

½-%

1/5

9/5

This case?

1104100-7: O5u e too

tell +51 25-640040

11.

12.

RILAN

10.

A MISE THIS DOCURENT TO RIDI

W

IT IS FILED. IF TILS DOCUMENT IS TO BE RESTRICTED, CHECK

HERE -

- RESTRICTED TO

FILE TIL Unit Designation

101. 2% 8$5

PRIMARY CODE!

301- 294855

DATE HEAVILALO.

Wing DAy

2013010309

CUMEN AME

05054

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

1D

Basel: adi.

& MI081

rY

Chief, Sa

FRoM pichies of station,

14-1

JeN 19

SUAVECE

FOCA/LCLOVE - Feeting of Harry dions si. Jak

(ko 19 Sept. 1930 in jelsinki) ans inatoiis Lishaylo

rich #KLICY (201-221955) 1n Leninzrai

ACTON REONED

8S ALA NO

16723

S 435 - 060, X ONE

# LOD FOR NOONG

NO ADDING ESQUIRED

NOEUNG CAN HE MOGU

I QUALIFED MQ DESE ONLI

REFERINOESI

5048, 21 April 1961

1.

Transuitted herewith are the falloring:

A five-page renort of sOCIlla's interrogition of Harry Alfons

SU::DVIX on 25 ipril 1961

Bo A ENO-page memorandun fros SiDVIl covering leines no had forgotcon

during the interrozation

2.

When reading the attacied internation report, there are a number

of pointa to be noted.

First of all, sidi d's first storg was a lie and it

was only when he was pressed by ROODINS Gia: le ide ang licion of his restings

nậth KLInOV.

therefore, this story could ba anly bie sasuni lino of defenso

and not a true stury of

second, the story does not atidipt

to explain why, when suituVlk had a wean oif trun work (inus iurday, & april

to Sunday, 16 Appil), ha only spent the four ¿iddle days on lis trip Instead

of utilizing the rest of his tina.

mird, my MINOV persiscod until the last

moment and made arrangements to sea SUNDiTi again socially in ialsink if la

had really "lost his grip" to SUNDVIK's superior arguients and hostile attitude

as SUNDVIK atates.

Anyway, to say the least, we are not rudiy to accept suNuviis

story as it stands.

dog as been asied to urite out in dotall, at least five

single-space typewritten pages, the history of nia contades with ALINoV. No

will check this paper against the report in hand, for a scurtor.

3. VALINS/6 1s being kept informod of the detalls of tils case.

agroes with ROODIN: that t'ere is a good dail nore than has loon saveuled so

far. (By the way, we might mention that chris is anothor casa in wilch VL.I:K/6

and the help of the VALINK organization have teen invaluable.

They nave provided

full background roports on all concorned, and inva bean sumullling SUiDVIK

off and on ever sir: we expressed our intarast in liim..

4. do jar as KLINOV's statements ahout COSTILIS ad DOODINS gol this

? was only to be ext ted and does not surerise either of timo for the history

of COSTILLE's provious encounters with KliV, seo QHA-44:1, 20 tarch 1961.

POODINE ME has never mat KLINOVe

22

The Ambussador,

the Counselor, te Sucurity Officer and the Genral

Servioes Officer (SUNDVIK' g immediate boss) are avaro of this case.

rogation took place In the Security Ufficer's offioe.

Unly HOODING and sU: DVIK

were present, but FURSTUSS was in the adjoining office listoning through the

We atill lave not figured out exactly low to haidie shis case.

will eventually lu diamissed, but le kouid like la sut amia me intornation

before we let go of tilin.

anyway, siroy he tas roon worklin; it tle ambassy

sinco 1449 thoro is not uch to be yined by throwing nim oue tomorrow.

has volunteered tist ho will be seing ALlUV In the nast faw luya to colloct

tho bottlo of vodka mentioned on pago five uf Attachmoral d,

sile we would like

so hoar tho story of lho nasting.

it 1a naulhle that no mirit asi tor aislatanoe

tO LULUTTER JUNDVII,

If this in feaslale, dinon a lot aditio la luarned from

¡JUNDVIKe comand of inglish 10 excallunt, sa wiladad abtachment b,

malule lie propared ly htmanlf.) One thir na do not intend lu bumoat, and

that do a doulle-aant opuration.

do too dungarGue, to lid., He oan Just Inasino KulMOV Iloking lila droja wires lo Ftrat

3134270

uat

PREVINIS BUNTION.

CLASSIRCAIROM

ALMATES NONS

S/BR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ADD 40

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S02..

scised into SiD!Is taciaround j¿or jarlial iniorador, see referenceio

Èero is a finia: emplorea of tie coricis inady dila tirin access (ey

the direction di die mericansi to ilidis offico

krows all ma couriers j'ersonally ani aiso nas cuciidio ricration on their

te can inder abcus lie aisay olicos loxcept the itation's,

of courgo) airost at sallo

ie muld sive iren gurrised if mere sain't been

any ricruitant aste ft.

He simt wint vut :or list bid auova does not only

apply to silk eut to soverel otter finish erplojaas as tailo do this connec

tion, pleaje note tie last paragraid of atticians do

One last point: we are at present translating a long rajort iro

he VALLas on larry sulDnIk'a fiancee (helka lilrlhi and ver lanily Id

all be transitied leat weed.

is sighe suto, lowver, liar sor father,. Kalle

Edvard AüTILl, born 17 Harch 1903 in feisko, 10 a Long-ilm Communist with

an Irpressive police reord.

SADIKE S, PURSTUSS

Attachzenta:

As statod in para. 1

Distribution:

2 - 8E, w/atta, single copy esch

2 - 3R, w/atta. aingle copy each

|v/atta.

14-1

Harry defore to gile Pai

14 sept 30; Achenke, Finland

bubj's interregatri seport se:

contacts wo/dnatel. y Mibhuylo-

wich KLINOV (201. 294855), ak-

pect RIS.

(201-214855). Report on saly't cor -

tecte w/Hurin Be ebus SUNDVIK,

in Leningrand a Finland)

- 1/BR

-CAN EATION

---

