104-10186-10097
a

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

iy . Tn'U'ee ene Mo ene 19 toe Utnomione tr revenue of ene ta tay mary woke onevibortent pera © ore OPEN TO CLA
: : SEHCRET Background Use-Only
fee NO FOREIGN DISSEM Do Nat Reproduce
p
COUNTaY Cuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00430-68 |
Suuect Felix Rafacl LNU, alias “Alberto” oaTe OSI. 4 February 1965 2
and Elva LNU, alias “Elisa” ee!
1 NO. PAGES. 2
REFERENCES €s-311/00115-64 j
: : on Jur y 1964 :
oate oF : uly t
1964 4
ae Washington, D. C. .
FIELD REPORT NO.

DATE ACQ. January 1965 :
THIS UNEVALUATED TTOUAATION SOUNCT ORADNGS ANE OLUUNITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1b TENTATIVE.
sourceA former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. a

Headquarters Comments

The following report is onc of a series containing personality _ ||
ianal information provided by the source and includes supplemental ait
information from the recorcs of this Agency.

It is requested that the audressces take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this fgency.

1. Felix Rafael LNU, alias "Alberto," 4s the head of the
Central Processing Sectio: (Tramites) for the Departmento de
Liberacion Nacional (Natic ial Liberation Department ~ LN) of
the Direccion General de Jiteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI). He cirries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry
of Interior. Wis salary i+ $220 per month.

2, Felix Rafael LNU ii a Cuban citizen, born about 1926, and
probably comes from Santi: :o de Cuba, Ne is about five feet five
inches tall, weighs about 20 or 125 pounds, and has a small
build. He has a white com-lexion; small black slanted eyes;

@ small nose, mouth, and c in; white even teeth; large protruding
ears; a thin face; and a s/all head, His hair is black and he
wears it in a long crew cu. He also wears dark rimmed glasses.

3. Felix Rafael LNU i: married to Elva LNU, alias "Elisa,"
and they have twin boys whc were born in fbout April or May
1964 (Elva was on maternity leave in April 1964). Elva LNU
is a Cuban citizen and was »orn about 1938. She is approximately
five feet five inches tall, weighs between 115 and 120 pounds,
and has a thin build. She 1as a white complexion; short,
straight, blond hair; ligh colored eyes; even white teeth;

TOeT
S.CRET cor

NO FC iEIGN DISSEM
gure omw “Taser Trave Tasa TREX Toes, FRI 2
"REP CINCLANT _CINCSO_#

THstys Field uwibytion lndicoted by “29

CIS RORRAN ION BEES

mone

mene

LX-2236 LX 2967
LX 2268 LX 2290
pl. O_ PROJECT (AMNUGY 1)
oO {CS 5/0
Tiaieew

ey Gaaotr ie mncions mUTION.


+ iaeeaae : vos i
. spans pn ag A gy tne apie na egg gg

: SECRET eee
NO FOREIGN DISSEM C£CI=31600430-65

+ 22 :

| a small mouth; and a thin face, neck and lips. Elva. his an extremely
violent temper and has a reputation for “running arounc* with mtn,

4. Elva LNU is also employed by the DGI (see refer:nce) and her
salary is $176 per month. She carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry

of Interior.

5. Felix Rafael LNY and Elva LNU rent a home at S{th Street, No. 4116,
between 4ist and 43rd Streets, Mariano, Habana, Cuba. Their telephone

number is 22-2770.1 7
Headquarters Comment a
1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on the above two individuals. ro

SECRET
NO FORZIGN DISSEM
