# 104-10179-10104

## Page 1

104-10179-10104

DISPATCH

- Shasta TaRs Force M

GASSIANA

$ 80

POSED

PROCESSING

ACTATA

MARNIE FOR PART VIC

ORARY CUALINIED

MEADO ARTIAS FISH

CAN NIECE INDENTE

ABSTRACT

ACCOM

PLISHED

FROM

Chief. JAWAYE

SUBJECT

GYROSE/ ANCONCERT -1

Report on Car MARTINEZ

ACTION REQUIRED RETEREMDES

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

Attached herewith in an ANCONCERT-I report on CIra AMARTINEZ,

a confidante of Manuel RAY.

BETURN TO CIA!

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment:

h/w

copies of seport la).

Distributions

8-Meadquartera wintt.

PAIN TYPED

DATE DESTINED

NOV

€ 1968

MINCE TO

LICENS T38

N1983IN

SECR

19-120-33

---

## Page 2

NWell :: 6564-6468

1i12ii1, 3 00t 62

Milanciate

SUEJid: Cir :sa2Ia2, cia: "cirli", vuid closuly consoctoo to

SOURCZ:

LaTIC DISZ PIVAJ.

TILTIICT tO DI. MICETOO TACHIN.

las councet.

12 Levera visa VCrIOUS anil-Connunist orgazizations.

On a V101t I nade to sourco, cho told no that sno had act iro.

CIza lANDLISE In Havene. That lino. inntlili usod tho clardcotino

pacudonys "JoscIina" and sas sorried to aronitoot Iron: tarchie?.

That koth subjeet and her husband toro perions in tho abcolute

confidenco of encincor lazuol RAY, and "Josofina" had boen RAY!.

accrotary for a 1003 41a6.

Source claime to havo learacd fron "Josofina" that cho vas

alscatlsfiod tith RAI's political actiono, to the extent that PaY

rantod her to Join the exccutivo of the orconication J.U.R.I. but sho

had rofused beonuse che did not agree with tho/flife of this

orcanization, That "Josoftno" had desorlbod this oscanization as

= 301141cal soverent the sano an Castrolon, only chancine tho nemo

of tho Icadcr.

That sho knowo the plan of this orcanization 1s to

orcanco all unt1-34rIczA ard catl-01s0i0 srcanlsations, undor tho

discotion o1 tho j.U.?.E., und dovoloy a nutlounliotlo and conccially

on ant1-/m0r100n pollcy In oricr to bo ablo to arous a11 tho cloments

existine 1n cuba that have aot ficurod proninertly In the CASTRo

racino, Attor the fali of vis ossano rocino tley plan to form a,

otrong political port in Ouju did capitalizo on the miotaios committed

tho proviadoral correncht. liti this objective 1a mind, they will

stay coparatod fro: the C.?.0, and Iron all relntions iith the U.s.

Coverment In ordor to be able to carry out their plen trooly.

Mrs. O1rc YarITual Ilvos with her husband at 1004 HE 17th St..

Blant, phone zumbor IL-E-0493 on walch they talk to nony persono

rolated vith rai's plar.

NOTE:

Ono of I4Y'c nost trucicd loadore In Moul 19 ot1l1 Osor10

DAVILA, forger tIcacuror Of thó 20% 01 July lovecost and men 12 tho

abooluto confidonce of laydoo ShranI.

Tor A lONE tINO DAVILA WAD

tho 0:1ot of the lavern Interation Deportione, Metal iu occo to tho

U.s, by bont iron tho coast of i unrao.

Sono deya es0 I. cubrittod a

dotalled suport on Ocorto diVild, sit sloo on CISmOS and rory other

---

## Page 3

8 Oct 62, sUb11 Cira :utINER (ecso.)

30:2 leaders

Injividualo chose nores

cso not adverticed but tio have comod bovers

12 the J.U.?S. OnO Of INCSE HOR 1S Icacio INO:, fOrnor lesder 01

Eu 2úth of July lovement, rrivato scerciary of the Cormissiosca of

Liavana JOSe IlAiUSA, sud C-2 dolesate 1a Lavena O1ty Iall. ID0S

persecuted many persons in tia Cloy Mall boczuso ho taa the oac who

esde tho licto of seroons tão should te astenca, to tho G-2.: Sa also

hai close connections with the kinloter of the InterIor, Jose 1.

Mantito, hon he kont lmrorned about the persous under cucciclor iho

rolled in the inlotry of the Interior.

020 tINE INDON ViSILOS LARANJO

ad infornod hin, 1n tho presenco of julliJo's socrotary, liey

DorEvialis, that he mould leey Captal Sanon NDILll, at thit t1ne

0h10f of tho Iclo of liues paison, under surcllluce, In ISC0 auIl

¡as proparino the crenpo of Captala Jcsgo SOPus, una thanio to Iucy's

¡aTlIng PADILLA took Irconutiona end tho plen could bo carried out.

IgnD010 IIDOiI liVeD 11 idon1 but I don't Enos his home cadrocs.

Altouch he Inter declarod linseli ei caciccc-munist, and I chint ho

•sought aoylun in the braslila Inbacià, I haro no trust 1n his at 011.

---

## Page 4

1 285

s00d

in Sunday. Ocrober 28, d set leice with Manolo Rad of the Hortmlento

* Repciaolo aria del Puoblo (MRP) al the Sar. Juan Intercontinental 10to!, 1n

Sin Juan,

My main objectives verel (1) to ollet ron !a

11sl os cubana, presently associaçod ult the Castro roclme, tho aro

critical of Carero and micht sa mullogad potentidi dalectores (2) to

availalo, In case of an emergercy, to bols lr. ontelng up sono kind of

provisional goverrmenty and (3) 10 have bla general rimo on the posal 1114y

of an Inaurrecilorary novement.

Since I had arrangod to rotum lo lastingron on the sano day, I did

nol fire Rag-mica vina in do a thorough jos.

However, he vas able lo

furnish no mila a lint of sanes, covering pointo (1) and (2). Ho promised

to prorido me with adition irfomatien alter chacking it somo of ta

a:gociatal 1n lew Tort and Miani..

His thoughto on the poonibility of an

Insurrectionary novement idil bo the subjoor of a separate menorandus.

ne persons boroln indicated are elther In Oube os aro vorting le

the. Caban Governart.

add my oun consente in parentheeld, based o

my conversationa inth fay.

OIDERAL

06

0b

06

O6L

08

Try rears no na alguntod ita the Camiro regime.

natructiona bave gose out to nound hin out. de

oply as yet.)

(Said to hold a key corsand position in Centra

Ouda and to bo choroughly dingunted. Could be a

Way man la a lop loral revolt.)

(ias helpad ton MRS

, Ila alloplanos lo Castro s

considerably noaened)

falton 2ls0, to Xodriguos.

Comando Rolando (Ve apeloso ta louro Caba)-

18-11

* prnbabla

06

SB047

1/90

---

## Page 5

obe

06

06L

060

06 E

06L

06

061

Toprotect

Eident: ti;

Luis Pinedo -

suggest we

Redact

- "Adicia Judicial"

1ee

mas,

Tales of use "Pois

talked acres CAME

formor Hirinter

views

Probabig 59

In Ragon epires)

Tarorablo do son 1a

08

(In charge of

Fald key pealite in tirana prorince

Reported

Lo have expresend perone niem against Chatro..

apposition to Castra).

(Vermerly cornacted yes the Finance Minlatry. Known

to be critieul of regime.

08

(Ondar Secreta

do the HAP)

Favorably loallned

(Prosest pout stone, Reported to be agalnot cuutro.)

08

inciance to Carra.

Confileting reparto no to his

18

Han ricaitly rittan to

IP IN

Priatamed to be

an bous to coctary ulta tha Mi.

1 -7237

---

## Page 6

06

06!

06-

06-

061

06Г

06L

06 L

06 L

06

(Another laDor loodes, krom to ho anti-cartro.

Assistant to

redne.

Ins opposition to

The 10P 18

90112 waty pool paral pose 11

Also Iron Barnor,. In charge of one of th

111tla regimeata.

Deeddedly nati-

Letro.

(sold coveranent poultion in oriente, Kara l

be Anti-Castro..

halped the MRP)

are baltere

(Al former burnoniman fra Barnooe.)

(loo son Deracon, l' pabilo iscontento)

(Werner. mayor of

old to solare a Karad

---

## Page 7

14-00009

08

iran Camaguey.

rested by the orteinal rovolation.)

061

06.

06

A resovoted land murrayor 1

of the July. «

The minin center

I conspiracy idthin the soverent aginat Cuntro

cording to Rey, la the Planniay Board (dunta Central de Plantiesalon.

D - TRAULD PERSONNE

under contraot or « pablo officials.

Contre to don a bit assetes too sa cod near terro

an highly trasted by Ray.

08

061

walte Horks, Orlente Provino

066

88

06L

o loris, invans

06CГ

06 €

06 11

06 L

or plain

1tr ol Keiana

Havana

nasadate.

08

Pa0l10 Mario, Orlearo

I'(Ru0110 Monto, Rabera)

08

108

3037

2/g0

---

## Page 8

06

060

061

OGET

06 L

061

06 T

06

06[

06 L

06.5

06 L

061

061

08

(Las V112a0)

Vodado.

Professor at University of Ramana

Lublie borin. Harana

08

JARA, Havana

08

708

08

Tand Marlo LEPTZ

08

Havana

Ocher, trained peroonnel, not connooted adts the governarl:

Was In Pable Works, Havana

I-profesoor University of Havana and Tilanova

C

08

08

08

restinano

313.

Vedado

Verdado

---

## Page 9

06-

06 EL

06

06-

06L

06₴

060

06 El

060

06 ₫

Detober 30, 1962

SEOUST

scalcant, Mattarai Callers ar Aiellirota) 08

__santiago do Duba

1 Sant1aro do Cebol

106

08

Mariano

Marianao

_ A contractor

godado

Flamber

Tectrician - Maranno®

Serienas

Rarianno

189Д.

---

