# 104-10074-10174

## Page 1

104-10074-10174

SECRET/SENSITIVE

OSS-142-74

18 January

1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Case 61401 - CIA Operative in El

Salvador

REFS

MIM-006-74, 4 January

Boy TVX Dea Washington

96860,

16 January

(MacVane telecon 17 January

telecon 17 January

TWX DCD/Miami 12475,

TWX DCD/Miami 12476, 17 January 1974

One of our sources in Miami, Joseph Merola, revealed

the name and position

of an individual reported

to

be an

Agency,

official in El Salvador to Matt MacVane during

the. course of an

interview on 21 December 1973.

This was reported in MIM-006-74

4 January 197%..

This report was forwarded

to

the El Salvador

Desk on 8 January 1974.

On 16 January

1974 the Desk requested

that DCD obtain

the name of the individual mentioned in

this

memorandum who said he knew a CIA officer

in

the

request was passed by telecon and TWX to MacVane byl

Embassy .23 1h1S

16 January 1974.

The El Salvador Desk also questioned the

reliability of our source, Joseph Merola,

at

this time and

requested we query Miami as to his reliability.

2.

On 17 January 197% at the request of

MacVane,

visited the El Salvador Desk

to ascertain

their

objections to

our source,

known to us as a

convicted

felon.

Desk

objections

Stemmed from a 1964 report which

indicated that Merola had

intormed persons that he was a

"CIA agent".

tion elicited

the fact that Merola had

Further

again made

conversa

this

state-

ment in 1973 at an Embassy function.

We advised the Desk that

DCD was well aware of Merola's criminal background

but

that he

had provided DCD with reliable reports in the past unrelated

to his own

"pursuits".

The El Salvador desk confirmed the fact that' the

individual, mentioned by Merola's informant as

officer was, in fact such.

Ryan advised MacVane of this

telecon on 17 January

tos per 33

they were sending two cables relating to this case?, The first

would proyide the name of the person who reportedly knew the

CIA official. The second provided the names of

employed in the Embassy who were reportedly involved

E. 2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

SECKET/SENSITIVE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET / SENSITIVE

situations with both Americane, and local nationals.

attor cable was requested after the El Salvador desk:

officer advised

pursued.

that all avenues and possible leads were to be

to determine who leaked the information relating to the

OTAVOLIS

These two names (phonetically' spelled) were

providedsin the second cable by. Miami.:

All of the information

recelved in these cables was passed via secure phone to the

→ Salvador dock by fos upon receipt:

macyane advised 03v1

Ivia telecon that he anticipatec

meeting with Joseph Merola at 1400 on 17 Januarysto address

further mattere concerned with thie case.

MacVane advised

thath her

would forward

such information as soon as possible

ACC:

Miant Field Office

CCS:

CC: Bensitive Control Officer

SEGRET / SENSITIVE

---

