ECRET Digi Ak

EYES ONLY

AMA PoLA _ Wear’

75-752 TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

ZEKNICK CUIB-25 ws 56 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T257-63
Is 27 Nov 63 P
Dist? iC
FR [U]} 24 Nov 63 °°
TO  [Miami}: AMAPOLA ~"- 204 ii neste uh, ADICI
Msg Nr: -- ' sea

1. Whether there is a concentration of the Yankee army.
2. Whether there is a concentration of mercenaries.

3. Whether there is an increase in pressure on those’ sympathetic
to Cuba and the left. .

4. Whether active counterrevclutionaries are disappearing.

If the answer is yes, send a cable to Cuba and indicate in the
text the number of the points which may develop there.

Example: He calls the 12th means that. points 1 and 2 are
developing.

Inform fully via CANDI the reaction of the Gussanos and the
Republicans to the death of KENNEDY

We received message Nr. 7 via CANDI, and Nr. | and Nr. 6 via
LABRADA,

The equivalents of the 6%% intercalaticns are interpreted.

More about GARRIGA: He has lived in Miami for 28 years; he uses
the pseudonym JUAN CRUZ; his hame address is 1594 NW Street; his
telephone number is NE44338; he has two daughters who are married to
Cuban 3/0/TRIG-CUI/T257-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

vA > set aa
EYES ONLY

97
TOP SECRET (DINA



a )P SECRET [DANAR]Y
: : fee a BONARI® 63

nonrevolutionaries; one daughter is named EDDY and she was discharged
from the Richards stcre by the Fidelistas according to reports.

z
Please {eune in/ Wednesday.
End of Nr. 41.
Regards.

JUAN. November 24.

¢ 24
((A)) [sene] also on GatsuJana (laz72J

[us]. 934 cN curs 50101 TI 24 Nov 63 147
(Fo 5613k(a))
24

2 gg
TOP SECRET [DIN AR/

ye
