# 104-10059-10254

## Page 1

104-10059-10254

UNCLASSIFIED®

L. INTERRAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND

RECORD

CONFIDENTIAL

SHEET

SECRET

"SUBJECT: (Optional)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) REQUEST 78-0351/1

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

78-0351/1.

Linda Foltz

IP/EIS, DW- 7

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

9245

24 January 1978

- DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom. Dram a lina across column after each comment.)

RECENED

FORWARDED

" O/SA/DO

ATTN:

CU- 6

SHEPANEK

2.

Attached is

the DDO/CCS/REG

reply to OLC 78-0351/1.

3. 0/SA/DO

ATTN: Barbara Soderquist.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

"SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY •

03858

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1-32-0-031-

cu-b

Mr. Shepanek,

Attached is the original

response to HSCA Request

78-0351/1 from CCS.

Luida Jolty

Linda Foltz

244/06/2:202

---

## Page 3

14-00000

L UNCLASSIFIED

116 15:

ITERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

Chief, CCS/PRG

GH56 Hqs.

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and 1

building)

1.

NO

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

2 4 JAN 1978

OMMENTS (Number each comment to show from wi

whom. Dram a line across column affer each commen

0/SA/DO/0

2D0109 Hqs.

2.

3.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PRONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 4

14.000,00

SECRET

24 JAN 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: 0/SA/DO/0

FROM

H. Clark Schor

Chief, Plans and Review Group

Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT

House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) Request

REFERENCES

:

A.

Memorandum for 0/SA/DO/0 from OLC

(OLC 78-0351/1), dtd 19 Jan 78,

same subject

B.

Letter for OLC from Chief Counsel/

Director of HSCA, dtd 18 Jan 78

1. This memorandum is in response to the request in

paragraph 4 of Reference A.

2.

CCS maintains a file on one of the 24 individuals

identified in Reference B, as follows:

E. Howard Hunt - Approximately 100 documents con-

cerning the establishment, maintenance and use of

cover for subject during his Agency career as a staff

thou can 01310.

employee from 1949 to 1970, and, concerning subject's

participation in Watergate

inquiries from 1972 to 1977.

request in the third from last paragraph of Reference B,

Third from last,

and subsequent related

With respect to the

the Hunt file contains seven documents pertaining to the

period 1958-1963.

WA..

SENSE:

AND F:

Additionally, CCS records contain index cards on the

following individuals:

Colonel Bradley E. Ayers -

that a

personall

file on Col. Ayer'

was/

lestroyed; date unknown but estimated to be approxi

nately ten years ago when CCS separately men aimed

E2 IMPDET

TERCES

CL BY 004925

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14.00000

SECKEI

consolidated into a single numbered file system, begun

circa 1967. We have ascertained that DDA/OP/SPD/MPB>

holds a file on Col. Ayers.

Frank Sturgis 'aka Frank Fiorini - The index

8 May 1974, Subject: Agency File Review on Watergate,

which states that no indexed reference and no leads to

information on Sturgis aka Fiorini were found in CCS.

4.

In order to further identify Captain William Morgan

(item 13, Reference B), a middle initial and/or date of birth

is required - CCS has several index cards on William Morgans.

5. As agreed between Mr. Shepanek and

Yof this

office in a discussion on 20 January 1978, relevant CCS files,

in this case that of Mr. Hunt, can be made available for review

in CCS by an appropriately cleared HSCA Staff member.

cah Actor

H. Clark Schor

::::0009

2

SECRET

---

