# 104-10166-10250

## Page 1

104-10166-10250

PROCESS TO ME. CAS

SOCHET

10.

DISPATCH

0h1e1, HD

100 MORE MOUN

mom

MAtE GoOrge Do MorenachAlde

One of the mojecthe which the writer would liln to discuss brlety

during bla TDY at Headquarters ta George DE MURENSCHLLDE.

The under signed

mould appreciase some advaace inquirtos at Headquarters prior to discuasions

on 15 March,

2o. No are intereatod 11 Inoring the degroe of CH a Ca Interest la

Subjecte

Since the writer knous DE MOHENSCHILDT fairly well, the underaigned

could readily enter into a closer social relatlonship unica rould be corrainly

time conmuming and would be in line of duty and not iy the unitaria choice.

Ne. mould almo 11lm to know the extant of U.S. agencies' desire to

monitor his communtcations.

Should we open uny of his mail in addicion to

his correspondence with the two individuala cited in DIl 82020t what should

no do ulth his 1nooming comercial cables? In case ve learn that DE

MORINSCHILDT de about to make or receire an overseas telephone call, doem

Hendquarters wish us to send an IMEDIATE cablo to alert VoS. agencies to

Intercept the call!

"Jo The definition of Hondquartery Interest in DE MORIISCHILDT 10 19-

portant for Station planning.

We do not want. to mate time and effort on

targets not of prinary intereste

UCTIONS

MATa

TION

iTDY 3/65

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

PH Q. BENSOR

Milkarels

CHOSE REFERENCE TO

ES COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

22

CoTP 1533

CLASSIFICATION.

SECRET

201-725439

DATE

26 Feb 1965

201-725439

---

