# 104-10413-10266

## Page 1

1104-10413-10266

Chlef, Wil Division

per CSH 43-43

33:

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

INTO.

FROM

Chief of Obabion, Mexico City

SUBJECT

Monthly Operational Report for Projock LIbOY

ACTION REQUIRED: RESERENCES

Motion: Condo Wor Heniquarters' intomation

:119M-22152 rarell! Movember 1905

BOBANGER

Removed from Project

es Classification: 50-6-75/4

J08 # 73-125/71

Box: 29

Fold

9

Where followo the monthly opcrational roport for Froject LINNOr

activitics during November 1903.

2.. Torect Lines - Novenber 1902

20-u6-ii) was disconnecien on 50 October to provide a free line for

use rainsi a LINSOR target but this conneciion was not maic.

Processing of LIVOY information

there was no change in the procoosing during this roporting pario.

i!..

a lottatton of LTEIVOY Information

The most significant information provid ny LIaNOY maa 1000c o!

contact

Py Loe OSWALD with the Cuban and Sovlos inbacoies in Monico prior to

the assassination of President Konnedy

OSWALD's contact had been cabari

do Headqnertors on & October 196g for investication by ODIVY (UXI-14.5).

LIEVOY also provided operational beckground informacion which leni

to he recruitment of a local employee in the Yogoslar Imbasoy.

LIENVOY continues to be the principal couree fou backrant taro:-

motion on Sovieis, Cuban and Soviet Satcllite of icicle operacing An talend

5.

Maicou

Willory C. CURTIS mintained rogurr corner titt LIMGAl aa?

LIPo/d'e nomination has not recall in & chance i"

LIMWVOY operation for the precent.

The prcoot chief of

airse It was neccacary for CURTIS 10

CROSS REFERENCE TO

(5 line?)

exare of the MINNCY opriction

his cocistance in investi

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

IMAA-22673

DATE

? Jamary ?.04

CLASSIFiCATION

SECRET: ME

HQS FILE NUMBEF

10-6-15 /t

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONTIA"JATION OF

DISPATCH

CSL C7M 12-49

NONAL NEED

SECRET;

DISPATC IT SYMACI APSI NO

101A-22078

a highly sonsitive load in connection with the assassination of Presi leni

Konnedy.

This hus been reportod in detail to Hondquariers via oüher channels.

6. Sacurily

There were no problems during this month.

7:

lechnieal

The dour replaccment

recorders arrived and are in noe.

equipmont will be untered as the need arises.

C. Persounel.

there was no change during this month.

Proiuction

Incre is albachod a list of reporto, cablos a diapalcheo foraou

co Headqvarters ring this month.

Hilland (Castis

Arcachen: :

Ari

ateter in pers

Diebarintion:

5 - CARD watt

---

