# 104-10192-10115

## Page 1

104-10192-10115

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

10

DISPATCH

-Deputy Chief; MISA

CLASSIFACATIONI

SECRET

PROCESSINO

ACTION

MAULS PUR INURRING

NO INCARITE REGeNTED

HIT MALLE

ALASO MITERS ALIM

ABSTRACT

Wichone

ACCOM

21. 19.098 TD.

Chief of Statton JMAVE

SUBUECT

TYPIC/Operational

• Transmittal of MDC Propaganda

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED:

FYI

Forwarded herewith for your information is & folder of

propaganda published and distributed locally by the Christian Democratic

which hold two

Movement (MDC) brochures,

The blue cardboard cover has two inside pocket folds

Una Respucsta and Al Consejo de la Juventud

Democrata Cristiana de America. Also enclosed is a

small Cuban

flag

mounted on a short black stall.

Inserted through holes punched in

thefold at the top of the cover ia a key chain from which hang an MDC

emblem and a rifle bullet.

2.

The ADC Bave thirty-five such kits to jesus ANGULO Clemento

of COJCE to distribute in Santiago, Chile among

Extraordinary Congress

delegates to the

of Christian Democratic Youth

(JUDCA), 29

Octobor - 1 November

and the World Conference of the International

Union of Young Christian Democrats (UIJDC), 6-7 November 1964.

3.

the bidDe sent ANGULO, who is also a member of the MDC,

an

Invitation and round-trip air fare to participate in these meetings.

Attachment:

Brochure, h/w

03

Distribution:

3 - DC/WII/SA

65005 1

Ganjanag NES

• CAOSS REFERENCE YO

- Jatt

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

19-301-10

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

DISPATCH SYMBCL ANO NUMBER

UFGA - 18634

NEACQUARTERS FILE MUMBER

19-126-43/3

---

