# 104-10269-10177

## Page 1

104-10269-10177

GIA MAS NO ODESCRON TO

DECLASS #

¡CATION AND/OR

RELEASS OF THIS DOCUMENT

1'D-208 IRer.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

TROIRAL DUREAU OF iNVESTIGATION

DBAG 4732

Report of:

Dates

PRANCIS J. O'BRLEN

2/28/64

Field Office File bi LUS-42570

Ondew York, New YOrKs

Bureau Pilo 11105-114543

Character

Synopsies

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARLA CUBANA

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA

(JURS)

INTERNAL SECURITY *CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT -CUBA

NY T-I advised that ROBIN MOORE, who

offered his

Jamaloan property to Junta Revolucionaria Cubana

(JURE), was Leaving 12/18/63, for Saigon, Vietnam,

and would not be able to accompany

& JURE member

to

Inspect his property, "Blue Lagoon":

ISMAEL RODRIQUEZ,

& JURE member,

advised chat MANUEL RAY waS in NYC

on 12/19/03 and told JURE members that President

ROMULO BETANCOURT of Venezuela was finanoially

Ny T-a advised that twelve men,

were recently moved rom Miant to Puerto Rico.

Ny Tal and NY I-2 advised that RAUL CHIBAS, delegate

OF JURE In NYC, recently brought bonds from Miami,

Florida, for gale In New York to eguip and outrit

men for fighting in Cuba.

NY T-l also advised he

discussed the sale of M-l and

"Enfercer" guns with

-and

stated he had to discuss the

purchase of the guna with"MANOLO" RAY.

BAUL CHIBAS

advised that he continues his association with, and

leadership of, JURE in New York.

CHIBAS stated

chat all military matterg for JURE were under the

Treet control of "MANOLO" RAY.

CHIBAS advised that

recently five anti-CASTRO organizations joined with

JURE®

B. B

AS RECOTIATE

WiTH AReS

ES COFT

19- Ser-4

FBi. It la phe preperty of the FBi and is laser lo

This document contalns nellhal ter.

your agency; 18 und lla contenta 39o

TRES

002

DOCINENT KAS ROEN APEROVED

3986 :

355

SMS 1.3.

2/1/34

3X

---

## Page 2

NY 10S-42570

DETAILS:

7C-l on December 17, 1903, advised that he had been

In contace LACh ROBIN MOORS on Deceaber 10, and 17, 1903,

relative to MORE & contemplated crip to hia estate in Jamaica:

tuch he had offered to members of the Junta Revoluctonarla

Cubens (JURS) for their contemplaced action against cuba. NY I-L

sested that MORE cold him that due to his prevlous commitments,

ne would be unable to so co jamaica with a member of JURE to

Inspect his property there wilch le known as "Blue Lagoon"

NY d aovised that MOORS ioformed him that he would be

leaving New York on baceuber 18, 1963, to go to Salgon, Vietnam,

to sather waterial for the book he uss joins to write on the

United States Special porces who are erarinand ilare., MOORE

told NY I-l that he had contacted

a Erlend of his

In Jamaica ana colo hia that one or Lug members of JURE may come

to inspect "Blue Lagoon" and that he,

should assist

whoever comess; NeTo. had stated that HoORs told him fhat

mes on the old drilling, bustness, that he came originally

frow Texas and chat he bad formerly been in cuba souetive

previously and bad soccen Inco crouble. MOORE told uy I-l that

would te very willing to assist any anti-FIDEL CASTRO

orgentestion in carrying out activities against Cuba.

NY Tol also stated on December 11, 1903, thatl

a member of JURE, who does

6(1 41)

Tor the organicacion in New York, advised him that the JURE had

purchased so airline tickets to travel to lamaica to inspect

who is the

in new York...

to Janaica and stated that they preferred that an American

citizen sent:so that they would not have to obtain a visa for a

cuben.

-2-

---

## Page 3

NY 1U5-42570

BONEL ROSICUSZ, 84-19 S16t Avenue,

unter se furs, on Deceaber 20,

Elchurer, Queens,

1903, advised that MAvuel

La cuarcasa port aad asked bin to pick up DI. RAUL CHIBAS, a

leader of juns, and bring him to the airport for a weeting.

ROnICLE? stated that he did what Ray bad asked him and

there was meccins of RAY, CHIRAS, himself and several other

Indivicuals of JUNE, beld at che airport prior to RAy's departure

Durag this scort deecios with RAY, RODRIGUEZ said toat RAY told

them that tris ts the beginning of the end for CASTRO". RAY

stated this te expected activistes agalnet cuba co begtn sometice

durtos Janusy, 1904, Durtos the meeting, RAY also cald that

the JURE was recelving financial abalscance fron presidint

ROTULO BETAOLRT of Venezuela.

124200 Decenber 23, 1963, advised that following a

recent trip ba puerto Rico by ROCELIO CISTEROS, JUR? leader to

Mad, Flowda, it was decided that about 12 men ke moved to Puerto:

Rico, mo pror cusly bebeca kept in Kland byl

werber of Jus. NY I stated that anong the 12 ten sent. to

PuertO RICO STe ESI MONIEL ADd VICENTE MENDEZ. IT I-2 said

that he did nec know by these men bad been moved from Memi to

Puerto Rica, our the rigor within Jure was that they were men

well-trainer in infilcration and guerilla fighting.

NY 3% also stated on December 23, 1963, chat SUAREZ

QUIRONES,

&JURE verber in venezuela, had come to the united

states in briar to organize the labor section of jus.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

NY 105-42570

NY T=2 further otated thse FELIX HEIBLU LEVA,

delegate of JURE In New York, on December 22, 1953, submicted

his resignacion, but it was not immediately accepred. NY T-2

seated chac lICIBLUM LEVIN resigned as a delegate because he

.., not nave the time to devote to hio duntce.

NY 1-2 also stated on December 23, 1903, that "MANOLO"RAX,

who was recently In New York, tried to obtain some C-4

explosives from an unidentifled American, but was unsuccessful

and the Juks leaders in new york were discouraged over this

failure.

NY T-2 euvised on December 23, 1903, that he knew of no:

specific group within JURE which had special training in the use

of explosives.

NY r-2 stated that it Such a group of indiviouals

existe wichin Jurs who were well-trained in the use uf

explosives and sabotase, It ould probably include the 12

inaividuals who had recently been sent from Miant to Puerto

Ny 1-2 stated that if such ahighly trained group existed

Witatn JURE, he felt that ROGELIO CISNEROS of Miant wöuld

probably be in charge.

NY T-I, on December 26, 1963, advised that he received

a celephone call that day fron

in whichl

made an

appointment for Decenber 30, 190J, TO DIScUss Wita NY -1

the purchase of weapons for JURE.

NY I-l also advised on December 20, 1963, that

told him that JURE has temporarily postponed the contemplated trip

to Janaica to inspect the property which had been offered to che

for their use by ROBIN MOORE.

NY I-2,on January 2, 1964, advised that RAUL CHIBAS

went to Miami, Floridaion December 20, 1963, on an undisclosed

mission.

CHIBAS returned to New York on December 30, 1963,

together with ROGSLIO CISNEROS, the Miami leader of JURE, and

---

## Page 5

6(0)

NY 105-42570

brought back vich them $5,000.u0 in JURE bonds.

NY T-2

scated Chac these bonds had been sent, to Mlant by MANOLO RAY.

frow puerto Rico. The bonds shich were brought to New York

by CHIBAS were distributed anons JURE meubere 1e New York City

for sale to Jure wembers and sympathizers:

NY T-2 also advised on January 2, 1964, that the 12

men or so who reportedly were sent from Miami to puerto Rico and

are headed by EDEL NONTIEL,

are now reported definitely to be

lo puerto Rico. NY T-2 scated that these men are reported to

be well-trained in Infiltration tactics and guerilla fighting.

NY I-lion January 3, 1904, advised that he spoke with

who Inforwed him that he had brought some bonds

frou Mient, Florida, for sale among people in New York.

The

bonds are In the arount of $92.o0 which the JURS feels will be

he cast to outfit and eguip one man for fighting inside Cuba.

alao told Ny r-l that JURE had 50 men trained acd equipped

co: 80 Into cuba and that JUrs was interested in purchssing

G00 weapons of the M-I and "Enforcer" type which were available

through NY T-l.

said that they desired to have 200

to 300 rounds of ammunion for each gun purchased and they would

like thie equipment in 60 days.

NY T-l also said that

wanted to know whether the amuniticon for the M-I and the

"Enforcer" was interchangeable with the Belglan FAls.

NY T-l advised that

also told him on January 3,

1964, that they wanted to get people infiltrated into cuba

in groups of elght with effective and accurate transiting

equipment.

also wanted to know whether or not the guns

and ammunition avarlable through NY I-l could be delivered to

the JURE in Costa Rica or if the guns and ammunition could be

delivered to JURE on the high seas which alternative they

preferred.

=5==

в.

в.

---

## Page 6

60

6(4)

NY 1U5-42570

in detail on

an anti-querilla gun, could ve purchaced by him from the unvers

racerns corporation, 3o Fast loat courte alches forta

could only be made to legitimate governmente or dealers.

Ny 0-1 Bected Chat the cost of che 30 cerbine M-I was $89.95,

the "enforcer" was $99.95. NY I-l said that he told

that he could sec. these guns from the compeny in the

nexproorhood of sou.Uo each as he did not desire to make eny

profit on the sale of the guns to jure.

NY T-I said that

nformed him that he would have

to consult with MANOLO" RAY ana stated that they were definitely

Interested in SuO weapons mixed between the M-I and the "Enforcer"

said that he would discuss this matter with RAy at the

carlest opporcinity and infora NY T-l of RAY's decision.

N. T-1 elso stated that he told

lto impress upon RAY that

the scle of the weapons could only be made in a legittnate

manner.

according to MY T-l, stated that he was in

favor of parting the fighting started inside cuba as soon as

possible without regard to the political ties of the indiviouals

and cha someone a waver as calinkata.,

NY I-l on January 15, 1964, also furniched a copy of

the JURe bond which is being offered for sale. This bond is

in the anount of $92.00 and is for the purpose of purchasing

a rifle and equipwent for the fight in cuba.

It is signed

Dy MANUEL RAY and the Treasurer of JURE, who 18 identified as

J. Ja MARABOTTO.

---

## Page 7

NY 105-2570

on January 20, 200

stated that he spoke on

Hao day With

who inforzed hin that ho

hed

In biv had on his person a

checks in cecess of 020,000.00.

also stated that B

She Junglere eutenating,

at the presco vers to obtain Puerto

Fican birth corsificates

for the lus of their people in travel

to and

troy Plecto Rico.

Also told ix sil that the JURE was on the

Vs320 01 3511323

wechathe Caban issaration ary which is headed

by Conendante HUSBAT MATOS

who curtantly 1s serving a 30-year

prison ter ou the Isle of Pines.

AY T-39

on Januar 21, 1954, advised that he

had first bacome associated with the ps during a recent

basiross trio to Puerto ades. MY 3 advised that no had

been a

o1 S.9ICS DEACO Who currently kas

the

pose don pa laden coercine Posen Relations for

and resires in Puerto Facos

SY I-3 advised that the

Secreta

SoGAg BOlLtionS IoS WUPS iS DI. ROSERIO

ACR

{02neb

leading

taguse in the Cuban Revolution

Dus to tis uge and physical

Dio

¡GaONDS 1u scE ious to be too active ard,

recuit,

CARLOS DIACO handles asas or tho Foreign

Relations sos the Jung and is entagray close to and travels

with

"NANOLO" RAY!

ly Caj edvised that the Jure just opened offices in New

Lor ciey curing the past wack ara

thie

Lazdquarters are

Located an Host 435d

Stroet bothers Tah avaake and Sroadway.

Dro Ruub Ca33aS is the dolegite

HE JURE In New York, and

just secantly ANCEL FIGUREDO Mas cleoted coordinator, and

replaced T2LIX ILUM LSVI Who was unable to continue in

office because of his eaployant.

XY 2-3 stated that an

- 7-

---

## Page 8

66)*

NY 105-42570

indivlaual (First Name Unknown) SANCHEZ is the secretary of Acco,

and that they have a new Treasurer whose nade 16 FRANCO, but

he had no furcher identitying inforsation concerning bia.

NY T-3 eovisad that all military matters for the

JURE are in the hande of "MANOLO" RAY and his assistant, POGELIO

CISNEROS, who to the delegate of the JURE in Miami, Florida:

NY T-3 aavised that RAUL CHIBAS 1s the inuiviaual

cantos of military matters in the new York ered.

MY T-3 also stated on Jenuary 21, 1904, thet the JURE,

under the leadership of RAY, advocates the government

ornership of usalitles and certain businesses and elso

advocates a polley of agrarien reforu. NY I-3 advised

that wille he was in puerto Rico during December, 1903g

he hod attended several meetings with his

CARLOS DIACO, and deteruined that there were comniceces

withle the Jure who were then working on the problems

a ownership of properties and businesses and alco working

out reforms in the Agrarian Refor Law and also propcsing

continuation uf cooperatives.

main drawback within the JURE and outside the JURE is che

Leftist tendency of MANOLO" RAY:

feels that RAY way have modereted his views on certain

matters, but he still has views which to many have been

labeled Leftist. NY I-3 also stated that the criticism

of RAY and the system proposed by the JURE, 18 still

"Fidelismo Sin Fidel".

ISMAEL RODRIGUEZ on January 20, 1964, advised that the

JURE was setting bonds in New York and each bond was in the

anount of $92.00. RODRIGUSZ advised that in conversation with

RAUL CHIBAS, CHIBAS told him that the the was about right to

start fighting inside Cuba. Although there has not been

---

## Page 9

1244

NY 105-42570

anything oefinicely accouplished resaroins fighting insiue cius.

nevertheless, isen have been infilerated insice Cuba.

RODRICUSZ alec said that ORLANDO CASTRO, the delegase

• JUrE do venezuela, had been recently elected as a meaber of

the junta of the

JUNE because of his close connection with

President BETLNCOURT of venezuela and bessiad of the finanoial

assistance betas siven tO JURE UY BELICO• RODRIGUEZ

cavised that the jURE recently opened beauarters in New York and

advised chat they are located at 104 hese ed Street, New Yor.

NY T-lon February Y, 1904, edvises that he had a cele

phone call frea

and advised isl

told hin

that there was some delay in the JURs plans to begin Etihttas

In Cuba,

but that these plans were still in effect.

said that he was still teaching school at yew hyde park High

on until the end of the present

teru.

said he had no further sord frow"MANOLC"PAY

regarding the purchase of weapons other than that RAY preferred

weapons of the sane caliber as the Fals.

salu that RAY

B

quit his joo in puerto Rico 1n order to derote h18 full cime

to the activities of JURE and has recently stated that he will

De fishing in Cuba by May 20, 1904.

RAUL CHIBAS, 41-40 Dennan Street, Elaburst, Queens, on

February 12, 1904, stated that he continues to be a Spanish

instructor at lew Hyde Park High School, HiDeola, New York, and

continues his association and leadership oi che JURE In New YOIs.

CHIBAS advised that he is a member of the recutive Board of

JURE which is beaded by MANOLO' RAY. CHISiS stated that the

new coordinator of the JURE in New YOrE is ANGEL FIGUEREDO, Wto

formerly was the Treasurer of the organiestion in New YOrk.

CHisis aavised that he is/ih casige of militery operation

of the JURE sad stated that all military sisters were directly

---

## Page 10

NX 105-42570

uader the control of "MANOLO"RAY. CHIBAS safa Chat"HANDLO RAY

185 made statements thet he will be in Cuba by May 20, 1904.

CHIBAS Bald that he believes that RAY is premature in this

siscenert although he does not know precisely whet RAY nesne

vy the statenent.

CHIBAS advised that very recently five organtzacions

neve joined under the leadership of JUrE and this was announced

in sland, Florida, about one week ago.

CHIBAS sald that the

five organtzations now aligned wich JURE are:

1. Liberating Army of Cuba

Cuba Libre Movedent

3. Revolutionary National Assembly

4. National Revolucionary Cuban Front and

the United States Army at FC. Jackson, South Carolina.

NY T-4,

announced the joining

nI JURE by five anti-CASTRO organizations whose identities

are set out above.

- 10

---

## Page 11

14-00000

DRA/11

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT C. JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

NEW YORK, NE:! YORK

February 25, 1964

Iitle

Junta Revolucionaria Cubara

(Cuban Revlucionary' Junta)

(JURE)

Character

Internal Security Cuba

Registration Act-cuba

Reference

Report of Special Agent

Francis J. O'Brien at New York, dated and captissed as above.

All sources (except any licted below) scose identities

äre concealed in referenced communication have furnished

reliable infornation in tre past.

NY T-3,

an informant, contact with wher has been

Insuffioient to determine his rellability.

This docuient contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distrisured outside

your agency.

1. 3044

---

