# 104-10168-10402

## Page 1

104-10168-10402

inin 56/2312 8/14/59

kazi

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

D.ITE OF

INFC.

PIACE &

DiTE ACO.

SOURCE:

1≥4

Cuba

DEPORT NO.

CS -3/108,535

Cuban Revolutiorany Air Ferce (FR?)

Intorza:son Concerning Strenging

Iquapsent, and Lorally

o.

Ferrornel

to Governoent of Fidel 2i9720 Riz

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

3

REFERENCES

RD

July 1959

=5-3/108,636

Cuba, Habana

128-29 JulY 1050)

FIELD FEPORT NO

SOURCE EVALUATICNS ARE DEFI

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT LE TENTATIVE

Forrer zomber of the Cubar, arse ¿orces sho is syceatretic to Pedro Iis

DIAZ Lass, ¿craco FAR cales (s).

Assiaisa? Of Content:

There dollows iniorzation en the Calan Revolutionary A1r Force (rA?,,

1ts

strength, equi,sent, personnel, and trainine courses.

Leaderchio - Juan MiEDi beaue, mo replaced Fecro Lus= DIAT.

as chleí of the Fil, is nos a pilot hisself and re Arons

nothing about aircraf: cr'atcut the ad-inistratica of an air

force.

He has diszissed 19 officers Eros tie FiP since he

assured cored. 1n June 1959; several of whom nure arong the

beat pilotg in the Fi?.

Prise Minister of Cuba.

He is a "yes-can" to Fidel CASIO BUI,

b.

Perschiel - There are approzisately lu pilots in the FAP at

preserig

and cris

six or seria of tres are competent.

The

majority of tre

erchantes are forcer BatiStA persorrel, and

most of the repiacesenis ana repuirs en tre aireract are

made bj cannibali-ing.

it on sine cho cf the too citicers

of the FAl escablistol s pregaratory sstool 1n 34-a0a0, 1n

Habana Province, dos murcons ano santel to tali the

exa-naticro for cli:

In Manch 1959 chore were

350 südenis anolivo.:

190 or Than 52-a

1121teratc®

Fides sidtad sold tho cos-rading officer that

there ras no need for such trininadlons, tre he did rci

want "fansy boys" lu ire Fl?, tut sinted amstead pliots like 1

the Japanese suicide rioto no mould so neer: chey sere cold!

Status o! Aircraft - The Fir has the folini o aircraft:

3%.

F1ve

Sot piar33,

clo fuir of thist are in Ajar..

cordition.

1S.R0 1s tying to gal sore jet planes.

frca Venezuela®

2)e. Menty Furles, only sir of shich are le tits coaditioni

3%: Your DE-33.

1|1A 50|23.4

4). 5тo c473.

5-1-5?

24

Xie di 13 201

Pon do yo

face

---

## Page 2

50F9RS/l

.24

65-3/208,635

i -2

50) To Glós, one of wilch 1s da tery 500r corition.

6a) To DG49, 0n0 0i Which 1s be1r3 Ispalred.

7e) Seren Pell helicopie=3.

Ba) En26s, nurter arbnores.

do

Ammunition - The Fi? Las 1,500, 000 -ounds of 50-caliber zaminition, l5 to

25 fire hundred-poud bests, and some rockeis.

guns have been renoved fres the Fills P47 planes and tara coen put cr

tripods 105 ground and air defense 1n arzas where attacis are expecial.

structore - The Ili ploys I Gilear ins'ructors. toy dach recoat

10 a conch as calary.

2o I1th rogard to concorclai afrcraft 1s Jiba, Cuba Aeropostal 3a4 (Ciua 11s

mis company is uader lise

Postal 15zaSon Coman Deed 2et sends piares to Dant Prca diss

direction of a Captain Saint (inuja

every three or four days io sugale, as baci iaio Cuba. SUIT 15 i

suspected Comunist Tin regars to dc=paria Cubasa de hilacion (CUELL

Arlines), 1t lacis expelenced pilois Iccause Fidel GiS20 assissed a o

the experieaced pilot. Calli son caraces at a loss of sio,000 a sentho

3.

Pollowing tyo defection of lajor Pedro INIs DIlI ITZ 03 30 -77e 1959 =-7.327

officers resigaed or dera disissed tree the fi? by alama.

Soze of trase

=€a fled to Mia-1, 30s0 reained 13 Eubaru, and the therestoris of otrers a-a

not know.

Taero are also seteral Inn the restired in the Il2, but tbo ara

believed to be loyal to DIa lin ini tio probably sould support lin. 11 ke

attempled to orartha. C1S720.3 Ine sazas

of some of these tea and informirien

on shes, when available foilors:

ao Those ato fled to lass.

20)

¿ajor dose Mario Calz y Fertaicer - Forer Adjutazingeneral d° the

FAR, or third monasd cá the FAR."

20)

X= - jug bed 19 Jeres of experience in the fir Ferce

and mas consiceed the bes: pilo: 10 lue sil.. Le nas disuissed by

ALVEIDA.

30) It. Kanuel CRasS

2 cell 2006

40)

JOSe MerCOS DIlE LaTE Linother ef Pedro Iuts DIAZ iatE and forsex

5. Сарс бот 2 : - 382 -201.

Do

Those sho resained ia Babana fi: 1c's Phi.

1o)

He was the 11i08 sio flow Fidel CAsts tack to Coa

IT0s Sogota, Coless1a, 1: 152.

At preseat he 19 10 -laing 1r

Habase

24

---

## Page 3

:.=

Sieses

65-3/08,635

20)

Captain Rafael Hugel-

of tie 26 of July Loreseat, be mistraca snea Poiro 537 la= delcatch

He is in touch with day Gi-ii laojo, el tho Sirado Freste

Kacional del Escaray (Sij, SECcid imonal Frco: el tie Escarbray).

30)

• Tee coroidered the best p120t 1a112a10= 1n

the FAR.

He was dealssed by karach. and new is la cling la Baba-a.

These whose rhereabouts Escot kiose

Lo) Captain Blas BALED - form Laster cl te 25 ol Jal, Moresent ar

qualified pilot, sas dicalesed by dead, Mobably 1s la Fabara.

20)

Captain GARCIA Intguez (íca) - Fores z65bar of tha 25 2 daly

Horesent and qualified pilot, mas cieresed by lilad asd otably

1s 17 Habaca Doto

30)

CADLaLA JUan VEVE30 - YaS 25918º1E tO JOsA Harcos JILE lars and

•esigned when Pedro DiAZ liar ies.

Readgsarters Cozente

3/102,325, dated 13 vice 1959, reported tast aése eight may as mall as

another chilean by the sad a Mili ananafere, ase daricar; and e

Venezuelan pilots vere ying as insa tita

a the dole a rises and

arca there directly to licardia, religio pieses froz recesuela.

2.

11s say reces to jose Alberto stuary isalimo, sowas a gilot for the

T453/202,659, SECS:

3/380, 304, 2nd IDCS 3/579,013 16" SIer delils da jose diento sompI.

3.

CE. CS3/103,636 for a repor: from it sae sounce on other persons, sot

FR8 officers, tho probably mould 5a,00.t DIll ing 18 te airessted to

overthrow CLST30.

4. EP. ICS 3/203,000, datod 19 Juno 155%, nich rEsOrted tha: CuZ had resigeed

as ?A? AdJutant General.

S1s tus berto DIll l08 bed defected, bus mallo

NEIDA was deting Caler of tro FAl

nor at 24,

s00..

---

