# 104-10165-10079

## Page 1

104-10165-10079

CONT IDENTIAL

SECRET

(When Filled In)

30 gon 1975

Revlew of 201 Pile on V.S. CItizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed

the 201 file on

CHERNE

(surname) (201 number ledicated below),*

and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

Should be elosed. (If this category applies,

afflz Records Officer stamp.)

Unwitting collaborator. OI Code A7.

Explanation:

Witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

Porential witzing collaborator; date opened:

DI Code A2.

Porner witting collaborator (relationship terainated).

0I Code A3.

Potential vittiig collaborator never contacted. OI Code A6.

ocutety service)e ca code es. Involving a foreiga intelligence o

security service).

All others. OI Code A6.

Signed

(раве)

(title)

.This assignent of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed

(initials)

-KAM

The document is a permanent part of chis file.

201-

CONFIDENTLAL

SECRET

(When Filled In)

IP/ANP

(component)

4159

(date)

76662

B2 INDET CL BY 061475

---

## Page 2

14-00000

U.S.

Havana, Cube

FRE DIRI

1012.00 per day some thes 2e hour

9.00 jer day less 24 hous

Fran hrll through Lovenber-Fa.

Fran Decenber shroach Hare -52.

All other places 1a Cube - $75-00

---

## Page 3

cd-idonor

SOUBCE I3 B05X/e

XAAZ-28470

2 : APR 1950

DC'I

o Delos Ca

IN It

W HoniCh Int

593 V1. ANKEn

Bem Tors 17, Eea T

es zaeipn, Ia

REENS

Raeeãt,

Asa X: aLOs 2 0 1-76662

Dhreetar

Ta Cet etne (22 45 56) - adoer d

/0237

OL ARTZACT

LYDEI XO

• I0/

BA/DCI(FraL

ChETC (Att

C/70

111A

INDEX

RI COP!

DATE EO JUNIS

---

## Page 4

w722229

Me. Leo Cherne

Erective Director

The Research Institute of Ameriea, Ine.

589 Fitch Avenue

New York 17, New York

Dear Leo:

I appreciate very much your censideration in sending me a copy

of the Donavan Commission report on the Communist redelection

enmpaiga. The subject is a most important one, worthy of se must

careful study, and I am sure that the efforts of the Internarional

Rescue Committee will ada up to vital contribution toward a solution.

of some of the problems aurroundig it.

An you are aware, a ambos of agencies, both privale and

governmental, are actively worling towa.d an Improvement in the

Circmna-ces 1 raich many ecapees lind tiemseives. As remedial

action is aggressively saken, the dilficalties the Cormauniste emplois

will be removed.

I have read the report perscrally, and, at your converience.

will welcome further discusion of any matters you feel are pertinen:

but were not covered in the report itself.

Sincerely®

Allen W. Dulles

Director

PP/EA

Distribution-

/bed

Orir & 1 • Addressee

I - DCI

2 - Er. Reg

1 - DD/p

1 : SA/DCI (Mr.

1 - C/PPC (AII0.

Mr.

1 : C/lO

1 - CPP

1 - RI :

Car G. V. Eraci

far

із

---

## Page 5

14-00000

.GLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: iOpeisnal)

FROM:

PP/1C0/150P AW

Il roficas derigacion nosss avmbor, ound

1..

PP/C/ICD

2

CPP

CE ONERAAL

US 4LY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET : 1 /.

SECRET

NO.

PF/or-

DATE

DATE

OFFICERS

INITIALS

RECD

FWDD

COMMNENTS o a de oct o catea o at oe frca hea

1.1

20

Jome f8

"CHERIE, LE O

151

JUN 2 0 1956

A.T.0

JUX Z: :956

(5)

5.

7.

8.

DD/P

161535

JUL

opol Ri capiyoney)

-1 8 1506

RI

Ovit

.10.

11.

• 12

13.

14

15

-:co

.15 DEC 1956

DREE SS 610 "SOTONS

EOTIONS

_ SECREI

_ CONFIDENTIAL

CLA INTERMAL

USE CALY

G464l

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 6

=? 2-5582

SECRET

JUN 2i 1909

Comerve

2,460

MHOSANDIA PORS

asslotant to the Direeter

1. brunk M. Chapla

Deputy Diroeter (Plana)

Correspondence of IT, Leo Cherse

wit the Frensdent and with the icle

The attacied propored reply to "r. Cheme 10 lenarded

for loo ilroctor's aigrature.

This proposed roply rus coordinated with Hr. Prank land

(D0P/PPC) me. vas prosoul during the TIroctos POetinE Mita

Lee Charne be shich Nio there refere la bla 6 Juna lettero

So lo bellero bat tr. Chora's letter sa merely a fellen

en Ela comersation with the Diretore

the Research Iratitate

paper, althog of interest, has bearing en sellior to topies

dincussed during that meting nor knom sures da to letter

BIA. T. Cit fow

NO ENCLOSURES FOR EY

Jes ho an

Chint

Fayeholegionl and Parasilllar

Operations stall

CONCUS

for son

Almotents As dinted

20 June 1956

PP/ICD/Prop il

DD /1

1 - 8P/101

SECRET, Lil.

1501-26662

d.sw

Peter Lette fe

---

## Page 7

UNMI ASSUTED

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NSTRUCTINS: Offreer desigrations should be used ir the "TO" column

"ader each corment a lins shou's ie tram across shee

and each comment numbered to correspond wit. the rareer in the TO" couma

Each etcer should initiai (cresh mart insufficien

beige further routing.

This Routing and Record Sher: should be reurret ta Registry Eff -ülél

DIL

DATE

Son.

SECRET

DCI

DATE

TO

DDI2

IFFICER'S

INTIALS

Cit

TEEPHOBE

FaDD

1050

16233

COALENTS

"CHERRE, LES

10

301 1566621

UT LEDES

HAS 610

PAFLACTE UP $-30

WICH MAP HE KIN

SECRET

CONFIDENTLAL

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 8

ER 8-3541

JUL 11 1ê50

Lady.

Tro Leo Chem

Ean eutive Director

The Roscoreh Institute Of Amries, Inc.

589 PLICA AVED

New fort 17, Men Tarts

Deer 1008

I vas sled to have the exportaity to

boar about the cousiming netivities of the

#Internations? Benear Committee.

in a steroid in an sette you

ping un internd en the various activitie

of the DC.

Director

PP/ICD/PrOpL

:vpp (20 Jm 56)

Henritten - O/DCI/JASbau:an (20 Jal 56)

Bewritten - 0/DCX/Jm/mro (12 Jal 56)

Distalbution:

0r1g - Addoe

A - DCI

Reading

PP/ICD

PP/ICD/Pra

TA COPY

307-176662

---

## Page 9

•1 4-00000

# 8 3011

Dann Set

12200 1 Dalle

Puructer

(20 J12, 56)

1 - DCT

- FR/

CI COPY:

701-866623

---

## Page 10

Mr. Leo cherne

The Remares Instituto of Airles, Ise.

Dsar Loos

I us glad to bave the exportunity to baur asent the cortiente

I seto that 1a your letter to the inite itouse you haro follo

thout e prosaing for furtbor Congressimal strection to the

our roatricted ara of ir.Zuones u are aiso malded to enocurage Bau

aaptatin of tiratie legallo to rollect to Fresdent's

priposals.

As 1 Alemond In our mollar, the utter of fund Mtning 18

property en uhich shouid do pared tith private foundaticon se

saurood, Mile recognining the my editiol projecte maich your

of the ne membar of your board could sent in devered to soliestation

of pritute finicial sapport for the projent already underay. ice

a relatie to the plight of the Ingenie resigned, Jus seper

mot partiespation 1o, as yon kno, planed la to iopertant of tute.

Incipally to the is, incopes frore, end i belteve that them

In the Ingonly reines and tonir maller.

Simonrely,

PP/IC/Propdl

20 Jume 1956

Dant. -

Origo

STAI

3009

DCI

Er. Redstry

PF/IC

PP/ICD/Prep

ALL N. DULLE

Drate

.: COPY

100-766.6%

---

## Page 11

EXCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTLAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

and tch came arcane is caresson we me runcer in the-S mamma

if Funer patrag

This Funting and Reon, Sheet whad be mered to registry

RI ANALYSIS

Exes arton shoutd initial (chuck mart inficient

1935

CORRES

-

#2.

ABSTRACTI

INDEX

* RIFI

1409

DATE 14 APR 1965

COMFIDENTIAL

UNCLESALI

ABS SEE 4SE3

---

## Page 12

HAR 2 5 127

FINE:

DELUDI:

TA DI LATES!

FIOCRAFIICRE DAIS

C2SE, Lec

& Sept 1912

123 Central Fart lest, IC

Exec- Sec"y, Reseach Irst. of Auerlea, 292 Madison, NYC

19L2-Inalyrt and connectator for Itual roadcastirg System

AtE 1991

100-17.2-1

(1 abrit. 47)

43-120-5

(25 j9u.52)

200-6-43

182--24-1153

sed. 20

33°

RI COPY

0701-7666607

---

## Page 13

25; 1e0

225 May 1954

BaI, Document I0C 122-6 reflecta a empy of a telegre to

Seertery of Siste Dean Aisari Bras the Executive Secretary,

Azerleans for Intellectual Freedon detei 20 Yarch 1919 requesting

that an energeney thes be grarted and trip to the los, erecited

for Patel 1IS21I0, ortanding Busatan actentist she tes fled

Iren 130 Sortet Goverscen..

Tie if desires that lucild accreat

their freedon rally as their guest on 2 Kesch 1949. Ang the

BleDers of the salegram 18 ose 100 Crit.

A sacorandan In the BJ38 ?.I. Docur et dated I April I947

dochones test Git began ocardinating sith the State ieportrent

In an attept to effect lIc lug adultteros to shia country.

*I. Docusent 131205 1s a stacIancha to rooard deto

2 Irray 1952 milectleg that CPC and C. Cortzeta effected thi

age of Subjectin services, throngh his position uits tie ReseaTe

instituto of iserlos, to baciston. the cover story of a propoçs

agent is trairing.

Do adaltical partinert data..

Special Agent

Speciel Referral Brunel

201076ra

---

## Page 14

4-00000

FES 191659

7 13 33

XAA2. 28426

12 May 1935

PPC

MEMORANDUM TOR: Chlel, Ter Enor Dirialogy

SUBJECT:

O Memorandum from Loo, Chere

en the Vietnam Situatice

1. You may be interer:ed in the attached memoranda

by Lea Chare as ll onald soon ts me il accarde rich your

An I would nino Ilm to say that my case cificer en

Operation broinerinanà projeci rupario isi in in ising

§tren the moes frlendly kiad al comperation by your peeple

working on that projact, which la appreciated.

COmE HETER, ds

CORD MEYER. Jr.

Chlet

al Organisatien Divisten

EK.

Distribution:

Addressee - Orig k. 1

IOD - lee

RI - Ice

SECRET

DATE

MAY 1

---

## Page 15

14-0000

FBI REPORT

DATE:

26 APRIL 1956

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

JULIA LOPEZ CHERNE,

AKA: MRS LEO CHERNE

FBI FILE #:

105-16531 (NEW YORK)

---

## Page 16

FBI REPORT

DATE: 2 APRIL 1956

CLASSIFICATION:

OONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: JULIA OPEZ CHERNE

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

FBI FILE #: 100-66819

(BUREAT)

---

