P STATUS OF REQUEST: “Lte from Blakey did 23 Jaa 78
P TASKED TOr-O¢C, 3/8A/00/0,. OF, OP, 08/8aG

CR Ready"for Review <2,
ER ~ Log Sheet Recetved by one

} :
jitem Bdaddtpedton

Yurt, Tyanoitich Noaeatd _

Valeriy Viadetairovich) ©

Kostikov

Pedto. Gutierrez
Valencia

Ruth Hyde Pathe
Michael, Ralph Paine
Joha Lindsay Hoke

Aylvid puduew wyde

Yoke

BBO.

+

Mise, Offices #

ao Record

fo Record
oO Record

do Record



SCONTROL NUMBER? |

SUBJECT: © NOSENKOy YURTY

DATE OF DOC: . eS+AUIG-<77 DATE RECEIVED?

DATE Dues = DATE SENT:

DRIGIN DF. MATERIAL? JDM-o6¢

ASSIGI Tor = PERMANENT, RETENTION?
SECURITY CLASS! Ul ROUTING:  ORIG-ADSE

STATUS OF ASSIGNMENT: nic

SRIAL REMARKS TO! DCE RE? INCARCERATION OF YURIY NOSENKO FILED W-JDpt
DIR 91 Sep 77 j t food 1 ie



| SUBJECT! | FOLsJREFE, sem cn Pe-1554
a.DATE OF, Doc: 20-SEP-76 DATE: RECEIVED: @1-SEP-76,
DATE DUE: i best DATE SENT? on ca
GIN OF MATERTAL: SAM JAFFE
ASSIGNED Tor FOI-EM PERMANENT RETENTION?
SECURITY CLA: it ROUTT JDM+ EM
STATUS fF fy GHMENT? We
TAL REMARKS: JO! JDM-OGC — REt CONFIPNS 19 ALN ON RE? YURT NOSENK
TIONS SUBMITTED THROUGH CIA AT Ai c STIDN 26 APRO76*

fo

‘



CONTROL NUMBER? ost.
SUBJECT? NBSENKO, YuRT
BATE OF noe: 99s see

DATE DUES So

“3826

<CASE FILEDY

DATE RECET

DATE SENT

ORIGIN OF MATERIAL:

SSSIGNED To: sm —JKe

SECURITY CLASS: os
STATUS. OF ASSTGNMENT:

SPECTAL REMAP: Met
ATT. +

YEDE tas,

De-er-ReA

PERMANENT RETENTION:

ROUTING: 3K

ie

RE:

SLAZUNOY:

RECLASSIFICATION OF NOSENKO REPORTING



CONTROL NUMBER: — a6!
SUBJECT:
DATE OF Doc:  n2-nAy.
DATE OH, ~
ORIGIN OF NATEPIAL?  G.T.KALAPTS\ Cet STARE
FOI=pun PERMANENT RETENTION:
& ROUTING: EMepHh

STATUS OF ASS IGHMENT:

EQIAL REMARKS: To: ner F
NFORMATION FROM YURIY 1, NOSENK!



CONTROL MUMPER: — oSt
SUBJECT:

DATE OF Dp DATE RECEIVER: — 2s-fiPR-75

DATE DATE Sent: - os

DRIGIN OF NPTERTAL? SAM A. JAFFE

ST ql PERMANENT PETENTI
SECURTTY CLA u uU JMS EM
STATUS OF ASS TNMENT:

TR. PEMARKS: = TO? G.BUGHsTCI RE: GUESTIONS To BE FoPieRnED To SOVIET. DEF

ECTOR YUPT MOSEMKO FM JAFFE ATTS.~



CONTROL NUMBERS
SUBJERT? ~NOSENKD. vuRT

DATE OF noc: 3 DATE RECEIVED:  034FER-76
DATE oe: DATE SE) peneeees!
ORIGIN OF MATERTAL: -LEGNARD McCoys CHIEFs CI-RER
ASSIGNED TO:  eoT-Een PERMANENT RETENTION:
SECURITY CLASS: oc ROUTING: Joh uttiMy RMD

STATUS OF-ASSTSMMENT: tic

SPECTAL PEMABS: %. RE? TELEPHONE CONTACT BY SAM JAFFE ON NOSENKO.”



nsR-7é~cate
SUBJECT? HOSEMKO yur
TATE RECEIVED? — 02-Jan-75
DATE Dyes DATE SENT: - os
ORIGIN OF HATERTAL: LEONARD MeCOY, cHIER. TRA
SSIGNED To:  Fot-en PERMANENT PETENTIO!
SECURITY CLE ROUTING: ys

STATUS OF ASSIGNMENT: yc

SPECTAL BENARKS WR ORE? ATTEMPT OF SAMUEL JAFFE To Locate yurr NOSENK

