# 104-10248-10183

## Page 1

104-10248-10183]

SECURITY INFORMATION

RETURN TO C13

Background Use Only

L.DO Not Reproduce

Chief, Security Diviadon

Chief, Physical Security Branch

Security Violation - Exposed Classlfled Matarial

43872

& Hovember 1959

On 27 Detober 1953 at 7810 Poleg during & Becurity Inspection 01

Foam 2120, "quarters Bye, tuard Tor. Bryant found a TOP SECR:I doeu-

sent on the dask as igned to Mr. Arthur 8, Turner.

The material vas Iden

Alfled as "Progress Report," IS Document 175160. It was on top of several

unclassifled toohnieal mgasines and 1te folder bore no classification

mariding. Might Security Offfeer Ray C. Colton responded to the telephone

eall fron the Guard O: Mce and securod the material in his safe at 8115

Polo, after leaving an explanatory note in the aroa.

2. On 28 October 1953 Mra

of this Branch, accou

pandod by Hr. Bernard P, Doran, Seourity Officer, DDP/ISS, Investigated

the volation.

During the course of the investigation Mr. Arthur S.

Turnor, froject ingineer.

Aro David do Christ.

Deputy Divialon Chief, and

Nr. Walter 0. Driscoll, Division Chies, al a DOP/TSS, were Interviend.

9. Ar. Turner advised that he vas custodian of the document on the

date in que tian.

He stated that, after placing all classifiod material

In a safe at about 510u P.M., he had occasion to search for another doou-

ment and that apparently he had placed the instant document on the pile

of magasines while making such search. He stated that the roam was va

cant when he departed at about 5:10 P.N.

4o Mr. Christ advised that he was responsible for conducting the

Staff Duty Offleer Inspection of Room 2426 on the date la question. He

stated that he had conductod his Inspection but that apparently he had

overlosked the instant document, explaining that a considerable anount

of unclassified materlal was In the rom and on the desk. He stated that

the room was vacant when he departed at about 5335 P.M.

Mr. Driscoll advised that the document was overclassified and

that, in his opinim, Its exposure would jeopardise no personnel, plane

or operations.

He explained that the material had not beed prepared

by of for the Agency, but that 1t was a copy of a private Industry ro

port containing Information in which CIA was interested.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

e.=.

1000

---

## Page 2

XIAINEOAUATION

Backgromo

15D0 No

34 Ma98

too s shal

GONFIBENTIAL

SECURITY. INFORMATION

---

