104-10181-10123

INCLASSIFIED 7] [MTERMAL, 0. NFIDENTIAL «=. Serer
a ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

28 October 1959

COMMENTS (Humber soch comment to thow from whom
15 whom. Drow @ lu ecreat, column efter wach comment}

1/4 z

‘at 1 oct:
ath b/s.
Liat % erf5 ie

TY tery ee lencladily tH éwko”

DY Cera areca Ae ay PP
4

en Wenewio.

eu 610 “erase” C) secret. C] CONFIDENTIAL] GREWAL (_UNcLassiFtED

_RET ANTO *~
Baa

Ved


ye

E-275-59

Getedar 23, 195).

oT OW VERA IVCHE

feet e ee

ned

Meneses awe hat

Followlag your request, we ksve collected the folloning bits ef
th regard te Bobert Webster's girl friend from Boscom,

- Rer nemo is Vere Ivagovay Ivcheake. She fs 5'2" tall,
face, smell woze avd fair ekin. He adds that she wes
sual] breosted, but Aad broad hips. He soted her shoe size to be less
thaa 7 (Webster hed boeght shoes size 7 for her -- they were too large).

Yora was eupleyed in exe ef three restaurants of the (Araine Retol
a0 6a talerpretar (Americss) and hosteas, Sao lives alee with ker suther
ig whst fe kncwa so a eoraunal aperteost, (Tals {nformation was gives by
bath Yora aad Wedster). She also told thet she has one sister who hes
twe childrea, Ste stid thst her educetion was gf a highsckso! level,
aad that ghe taught Zaglish im & correspendonce school.

It sppeared to Sou that she seewed to be very frieadly with the
following waltresses et the Utreiae Hotel - Lena, Shura (heth about 5°6").

‘The lest night of the Auericaa Ica Show there had been a party et
the resteuraat, Tkere was © grovp pietare token, showing hez boldiag 9
couple ef children of the American porforasrs.

Vera eppareatly resisted Webster*s advances for @ month.

oF

eae Bis description of Yer teas $'2-3", attractive, but o2
the + Ske prescated « cleas sppearance, dressed well. fe sai¢
she spoke ¢: Bagl{sh, She had potse and wes very cooperative. . Re noted
her reusd face, dark bolr, estimated ber bust size 34, with lerge hips.

fo said she was in the adataistrative groxp of the two dounstairs
Festaurants, Ke alse added that she apparently attended the opera frequestiy.

SHRP PERSONTO.PERSON += = ae
EED-TO-KNOW BASIS. |. stoner yon

Repretuetion of tits dccumest le whats ty et Os


rE eerecoreriet epee at Cat eet tes eet t oct ce weet ee :

2 SECRET
BHP -219-55
- ay October 23, 1959. :

. vage-2

R, King - Ris description of Vere was 5°2", approx. 130 pensda,
with $ at brows hair, nicely built, with light complexion, He described

hor heirde es western 6:

Be sald she managed one restaurant. She. 2 6 bees on English teacher
at the University ef Bescew, alse taught corresposdesce scheol course.

Sho hed worked as {aterpr
saidme tage ne attempt to date or try to be dated.
Webster has pictares ef her.

| Be says thet ste wore a nary piso sult xith « salte
plosie weit BT the Tine. He -estiaates her betng S127 tall, with medion
light brewa hair, fafr cesplexion, weight - about 13) pounds.,.falr side |

bust, with large Alps, She spoke English fairly well, Be felt her
panaer reserved, but pleasant. ead she seenad like a nice type ef person.

him fer a date, nor did he approach anyone - althorgh
1s seemed to be "avaliable". Vers worked ta the

restaurant oa an everp-ether-day scheda!

She attesded the ballet with Webster bat did wot want to be seea with
the rest of our boys as it would be tabarrassing.

ob . :
1 He ostinated hor height as 3°5", with dishwater Dlead
heirs Tight complexion, geed iveking, with sagli busts end median hips. _
He had ® friesd, Vera Ivcheak, ue reletios te Robert Webster's
friend, slthevgh the maxes ore very sinllar, He eet Bis (riead thres er

four tines sear the Xrenlin oa Gerti Street. Originally he had met her
in a cafe tuo or three doors away from Araratt Restaurant Square).

Webster kept his girl's pletere aeder gloss om the bureay in his
room (#1901) of the Hetel Ukraine,

SECRET
PERSON.TO-PERSON :

KNOW RACK i

2fef
