104-10173-10054

el

408 chter, Wa

| aievety
A278 30

ie
FO Vacend-»

Feet Acting Chief of itatton,

2 By

UBT eee
: SCunCHY Neport on Marvin #Rah
wet Bow tora Citys,
ACTION: For Ir formation;

References [ovcd}-8769, 29 November 1960 (para 4)
az

1. uate entertained Subject at dinner on 29 Novunber 1960 af his fst
for the purpose of arsosacent and elicitation of biographio informetion, S“yAte
evaluation seened to indicate what Subject is only of marginal potential value
to CiA- Tho writer plans to woet Subject through gevat a later date to
ake @ personal assvcenent, but it ie not expected that Subject will jrove
to be more interesting than te already indleated. Ao previously mentionud,

Sune has been invtructed to continue tu keep the contact alive but not to i
devote uniue tice to it, For the sake of the record we subnit the following
information on dubject's backwrouns o& a supplement to that already reported
in’reforence. (Please note that thore soma dates in the following wnich
are contradictory to those reported in references Those elted below should
be considered to be accurate.)1

: are os

Duvjoct served with the Karine Corps. 43°s Heahiante on jet aircrart
dn both Korth Carolins (probably Cherry Point CAS) ond in the Woot
Indies, lie didn't care for service life becausa of tho disciplirc,
rogimentation, etc. After being diucharged in 1955 he romained in tha
United States, doing nothing for about ond years He athendud Farleiga
Dickinson for one year (1y5u-57), but left after that tise because he
found it leso than satisfactory or atinulatine. In 1957 ha came to
Europe and toured around the continent. uring tho luttor part of 1957
and in 1958, ho nado two $month trips on visitor's vinas to the Soviet
Union whore he lived with his uncle's femily in Xinek. ¢hile thero he
did attend some clanses at the University, but way not a registerad
stuient, Ho stated that he hae several cousins there about hie ace.
Prom 1958 wntil tho present he hne been. studying at the Slavic Institute
here, end interde to take hia examination in dlavio Studies in January
1962, Me will také:his exaqnination in English end Ruselan, because

he ue not mastercd Danish well onouzh to take it in Danish gs norzally
requiréd, he hae agreed verbolly with the Institute's authoritios

that should he receive his Uecree, he will not undertake to obtain a
teaching position in Russian studies in vennark.

“8, Pudject stated that his future pli are a bit uncertain, but
that he will probably return to’ the States to teach Husolan at the college
level, Ho would, however, not te opposed to going back to the S.
Union for further atudies there. “nother idea waich eppvals to
would be to co to (hed) China vor study. He toldqeac that be had been
to the Axerican :staosy to diveusa the possibilities of auch @ trips
(A check with the conular auction revealed that several pooply lad
approached its officers for advice on euch cattere, but it coal:
)
sue MB et ols meh wt
2 Sethtg tated that
wy decaune ho telt thot

travyi wna/or ivuias
apparently convidvred , one to Satna to
perbnpa the peoply tnery "ilve clecer te lasuM, oF warue to iat wsfects
Dubject amficated Coat a toartn abtern itive eculd bu to reais dere in

Copenhs,un for further etuiy, tub Felt tit tnie would Lo rotaer unitaelys th

ro Meported Unat wreck sae either not very pobitiond ly

BPA Pate ® bagay sapurmen iment tee Ameragait pol ticad © ene

vobtee yp ote se? : eet
ao Saab et

ie
genac tou!
cae



socaed ty hold fox ill
perities, te al
eatchod while he
he was algo cy
Rucefa and blared: it on “buck=pore i
convervation indleated that he mao ve
one encountored in huveias

on caus die
effielc, Mie
ery nmr OF the ent teak then

2sruxic pointed out to the writer that shortly arter dinner eao finiehed,
visitors arrived en the scene, inoluding Subject's wistrexs, This cut down.
on tha tine wnich srtcfelt he could devote to elicitation or intormaticn
on the nore pertinent topics. further conversution mith dcby the writer,
however, lead ue to the conclusion stated in psragraph 1. "Any change in
this opinion and/or acquisition. of further inform.tion thought to be of
significance, which is ortained throu,’ the writer's meetin: with Subject,
will bo reported. Othervioe, we will convidor interest in Subject aso
potential savcace as terminated at that time,

19 December 1960

Distribution:
Orig 2=we 4-6
24

