ae 9g rere gp Ny Ri RATER BO CERO

an conbiDENTIAL CO seceer

COMMENTS, (enba each comment fo show from whom
folte'a tine eeress column etter each comment) |

aero san


SI OEn a ” RETURN T
: ; SECRE OCIA
: c E T Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

13 beea~
MEMORANDUM FOR : Director !
Wederal Bureau of Investigation I

Dosestic Intelligences Division

ATTENTION 2
FROW : Deputy Director for Plans qo i
SUBJECT : VLADIGIR SECEN

UILE RAVLIC
REGISTRATION - INTERNAL SECURITY MATTER

1. Reoronce fic made to an inquiry to thio Agency
fvom your Bureau concerning Subjecto, your Bureau's File
Ko. 106-100686, und this Agency's toletype No, 19754
dated 96 July 1068, Subject: “VLADEMER SECEN - INTERNAL
SECURITY DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

Caribbeon matters. SECBN‘o claim to your Bureau that !
he waa favolved tn o plan to overthrow the Governcent of
Haits and vao being paid by this Agency in furtherorte
of thio plan io coapletely false. Hevcver, SECHI did
infora thio Agency on tvo cecacions that he waa allegodly
involved in ouch o plaa.. A resume of thace reporte follows.
QO OFAGE 2 i guint

3. Oa 9 Pobsuary IDEs, Ghforred o represene
tative from Chiu Ageacy in wiaot that he had been offered
a post oo efiitary odvigos to an expedition being formed
by Rolondo WABFERDER Rojas, forasr Cuboa Benatar, to
depose Precident BUVALIER of Haiti. 7OECERM cold he refused
the post, but later said that HAS REQ had ronarked
publicly on gevernl occasions that SECKN had accepted hia
proposition, According to SECEN, thio wae a tactic

HASVERRER used to enhance the preatige of his aovement. =
e =
4. Gn 2 Harch 1066, SECEN told a reprosontative of ee 5

this Agemey in Minmi that he had beon contacted on 22 Feb-

2
ruury 1966 by one Wile RAVLIC from Hodrid who, necording t=

Sea

to SECEN, was em route to Haiti to perform a aioaion for

Prenident DUVALIER, According to SECEN, RAVLIC stopped in / &)
Miami to see him. In their meeting, RAVLIC told SECEN that 2
he had been contected in mid-February in Madrid by a Domia= =
igan national residing in Haiti who was ollegedly a confidant &

* 63 COPY



14-00000

B=

of Preoident DUVALIER, ‘he Dominican told RAVLIC that
DUVALIER wanted to soe hia regarding VLADIMIR SECEN, on
fodividual whom DUVALIER suspected of plotting to over-
throw the Government of Haiti. DUVALIER wanted RAVLIC
to im@luence SECRN to atop hig Haitian plotting and, if
SECEN agreed, DUVALIER vas willing to offer SECEH o good
god in the Haitian Governnent. SECEN reportedly told
RAVLIC that he was sot engaged io any plot to overthrow
President DUVALIER apd did not plan.to becens involved.
RAVLIC then told GECEN that he waa goiag to flaith to
roport the reculte of bia aieaion to President DUVALIER;
hevover, when SECEM varned RAVLIC that auch a trip would
be too dangerous, RAVLIC took bio advice and returned to

Spain. ae
ie wl 3VIOLe

. a

8. The @iloa of this Agency rwoflect that Nile RAVLIC,
aloo kaevn ao Mile RAVLIK do BOGETICH TSPCRVICH, Hille
‘MRAWIT, and Major WILLER, vaa born 16 Juna 1919 dn Croatia,
Yugoslavia,oad is o saturalizod citisen of tse Bominican
Republic. He atudied agriculture fin Zagreb, Yugoalavia,
and graduated ao om ogronomist. During World War II, he
woo o neeber of the Croatian Aray. In 1967, he joined
the Deainicon Army ag a Major and becare a Lt. Colors
under President TRUJILLO. In April 3937, 0 reliable source
reported that RAVLEC, who traveled cn a Deninican Republic
pacaport, was apparently devolved to a0 import-ouport bugi-
ness, but ulgo corricd cut political and information
gothering aiociona. At that tine RAVLIC wac reported to
have boon in Hadrid for tha pact meath, but had sade cov~
oral trips to Pramce. Squrce aloo gaid that RAVLEC con-
tinued to mafutain contact with the MUJILIAs. The soot
recent information in ¢hia Agoncy’s filoo reflects that ino
soptender 1007, RAVLIC wae reportedly fa Pario waiting for
Mra. Juan PERON, At that tine, RAVLIC told a reliable
source thet be was in buginess with Juan PERON.

6. Although this Ageacy hag no current operational ~
fateront in SECEN, we would appreciate rqcespte of any ine
foreation which your Burgau may obtain om hig activities
in tho Caribbean area, particularly fo the Doninican Repub-
lic and Maiti or relating to the Cubans.

Sa

NGvinggs

7. The above information fo being made available to «._
your Bureau with the understanding that &¢ will receive Bo :
further dinseaination without prior approval fvom tain office
and will not be used in opy interviews which your Bureau
might have with SECEN,

Daieprony

CSC1-316/05546-70



DD/P/WH/7/Hat

Distribution:
Orig & 1 -

ieee:
le
l-
le
l-

(sulci

KTP ey
Es
OCT a dr

Wey

SECRET
no Fore

-3

ti/R. Lehman: pp

Addressee
Ci/Liaison
CI/REA

WH/PI

WH/7/HT Chrono
WH/7/DR

WH/Sec
2012891123
201-282058

TH OISSEM

%

27 November 1970
Based on: JHWAVE 9407 (IN 65542)

Project:

SECRET

NO FOna

toncae
HNN
widvelti

2 March 1966

JMWAVE 9024 (IN 61062)
8 February 1966

Book Dispatch 4681
19 November 1964

UFGA 28529, 28 Sept 1967

171 (IN 57249)
17 February 1966

JMVAVE 6321 (IN 59009)
19 February 1966
UFGA 26392, 17 Nov 1966

None.

e

