\7,

pes >
ROTTS :
+
} }
! Watergate Incident {
‘ —-—____}
EXTENSION “| 3. i :
at = ;
Howard J, born are an
} H tez-of Security 6777 28 June 1972 fi
| Retard uaee ea hii biethdiier) orsices’s | COMMENTS {Number eoch comment to shaw from whom |”
| ding) = ai te whom. Drow @ line crass colsma after each camment)

3. Executive Director-Comptr
7D59 HQS

| a enennoeTeee

}



te,

WATERGATE INCIDENT

BACKGROUND

Reference is made to the previous summary of 26 Jane 1
which provided details on the arrest of five men by the*
Washington Metropolitan Police, after having been Giseove rca
breaking into the Democratic National Headquarters on

17 June 1972, The five primary figures included Messrs.
James Walter McCord, Jr., a former CIA Staff Employee
(1951-1970); Bernard L. Barker, a former Agency Asset
(1960-1966); Frank Anthony Sturgis, who has never been
employed by CIA; Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga, who
worked on an Agency project from 1961 to 1969, and has
since been on a $100, 00 a month retainer; and Virgilio Ramon
Gonzales-Rosabel, who has never had any ties with CIA,

EVENETTE HOWARD HUNT, JR.

Much of the publicity on the case has centered on Mr, Everette
Howard Hunt, Jx., a White House Consultant who formerly
served as a CIA Stafi Employee from 1949 to 1976. Mr. Hunt

_was initially interviewed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation

in the evening of 17 June 1972, but he refused to discuss details

of-his-involvement-on_Constitutional grounds, Information has _
. now developed which indicates that in 1960 he had a documented

alias in the name of Edward V. Hamilton; he used the name

Edward J. Hamilton in 1963; and in 1968-1970, he was seriously

considering the publication of a book under the name of Edward
J. Hamilton, Recent news articles indicate that Mr, Frank
Anthony Sturgis had registered at the Watergate and gave the
police the name of "Edward Hamilton" at the time of his arrest.
As of 27 June 1972, the Federal Bureau of Investigation gave -
indications that the whereabouts of Mr. Hunt is unknown, The |
Bureau is checking on Mr. Hunt's handwriting.



Ip

3. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION INTER VIEWS

AL

= 3
Mr. | Ja GS-14, Operations

Offic Signed to WH Division/DDP, was contacted

by a Special Agent of the Federal : ureau of Investigation

on 26 June 1972, who made inquiries directly relating ta —

Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas, a former
recruited by Mr, € By memoranduk-wereq———!

27 June 1972, the Federal Bureau of Investigation was

furnished information concerning the Agency's previous

affiliation with RUIZ Villegas, and his 1971-72 ties with
* McCord As Sociates,

B Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas

Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas was last known to be
residing ina boarding house in Gaithersburg, Maryland,
The Federal Bureau of Investigation acquired his
address as of 26 June 1972, and it was expected that he
would be interviewed by the Bureau in the morning of

27 June 1972. The results of the interview are not yet
known, :

“CG. Ross Ward Lambert
a ween em

Mr, Ross Ward Lambert, a former GS-13, Contract
Employee, who served with the Agency from 1985 to
1971, applied for a position with McCord Associates

but took a job elsewhere, On 27 June 1972, information
was received that he had been interviewed by a Special
Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation assigned

to the Chicago Field Oifice. He apparently was asked
why he applied at McCord Associates, but we have no
other information on the interview.



fe

4.

5.

03
D. (Goa Freeman Caswell) a
3 :
Mr. Gonn Freeman Caswell) a GS-15, Executive, Officer
of the Europe Division/DDP, was traced to Agency
extension 6640. The Federal Bureau of Investigation
was specifically interested in developing information
concerning possible'tiés to Mr. Everette Howard Hunt,
Jr. A Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation interviewed Mr? (Caswelljon 27 June 1972, but
there were no significant Agency implications in this. . ~

AGENCY DEPENDENT

Stephen Tingley Anderson

Mr, Stephen Tingley Anderson, the 27-year-old son of
Mr, Charles Anderson, a current WH Division Staff
Employee, worked as a "Summer Employee" in 1963

and 1965, Mx, Stephen Andeson was voluntarily inter-
viewed by an Oifice of Security representative on

27 June 1972, at which time he indicated that he is
currently employed by the Committee for the Re-election
of the President, and he had been working as a Security
Officer under the supervision of Mr. James Walter
McCord, Jr. Young Anderson stated that he was some-
what-concerned about a possible interview by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, and he méntioried that his présent—
boss, Mr. Robert L, Houston, has advised 211 Committee
employees to have a Committee attorney present during
any discussions with Special Agents of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, :

FORMER AGENCY STAFF EMPLOYEES

A. Edward William Naeher

Mr. Edward William Naeher was previously mentioned
as being a Bookkeeper and Accountant for Robert R.

4



Mullen and Company, which has been utilized by
the Central Cover Staff/DDP, since 1963. Office of
Security records reflect that Mr, Naeher served as
an Agency Staff Employee from 1952 to 1969, .A
Covert Security Approval was granted for his ~
operational.use on 18 December 1970,

B. John Eugene Kelly

Mr, John Eugene Kelly, a Contract Employee assigned

to Saigon Station from May 1969 to February 1970, was

of considerable security interest to the Far East
Division in May 1970, when he was reported to be
writing a book on American inefficiency and corruption
in Vietnam, On 21 June 1972, Mr. Kelly contacted the
Miami Office of Domestic Contact Service.and offered
to write a favorable report to CBS on the Watergate
incident, in exchange for the Agency perspective and
interpretation of the bugging story. This matter was
referred to Mr, John Unumb, Deputy Assistant to the
Director, and the decision was made not to go along
with the nh

6. FORMER OPERATIONAL ASSET

pidtmsssstnhaait ae Bernard L, Barke

Mrs, Bernard L Barker has Bea mentioned i in the
press as the individual who initially called an attorney,

Michael Douglas Caddy, after the arrest of her husband

in connection with the Watergate incident. There has
been an increased focus of attention on him because of
his financial interests, Office of Security records now
reflect that Clara Elena Fernandez Collazo de Barker,
the wife of Bernard L, Barker, was granted a
provisional. operational approval on 20 February 1961,
so that she might assist her husband on translation
work,



FINANCIAL SUPPORT

The Federal Bureau of Investigation has apparently traced
large sums of money to banking establishments in Mexico
City, Mexico. Mr. Bernard L, Barker has been questioned
extensively on the funding aspects of the operation, and his
explanations on real estate deals are not being accepted as

the truth. As of 27 June 1972, the Federal Bureau of Investi-. -

gation continued to show considerable interest in the financial
aspects of the Watergate incident.

MEDIA GRAPHIX

The Federal Bureau of Investigation expressed an interest

in Media Graphix, a Washington, D, C. firm with offices at
1730 "K" Street, Northwest, and 919 18th Street, Northwest,
Suite 130. On 27 June 1972, the Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation was advised that we have no record of the organization,

