104-10195-10157|

sep 2s WS4

Referanca 15
captioned &9 Bdove.

~.-., Source F: £9:
haa furnished veticcla: dagornation ia tho pact, ee eis

asin 9%

’

sd to to reZorencss negorandun,



iaeere aes oa Ce)
. fo i
: : a Sep 2g 1054
14 a . ist
: : Rotate i

» -Refersnce ic a2
captionsa a3 Bdove.

fe Sourto 7 ? 1, roforsed to tn reZorencos nenorandux, 7 .
“ha furniaies Laliccia dafarastion ia tho past. ae stat



‘ ; 2 SEP 2bkS :

3 Xv, Winston M. Scott

rk D, Anderson
‘Legal Attache

. Enclosed aré mex
“above, which may be of int

COXFXLDENTIAL

Group I
Excluded from Automatic
ading and Declassification

eo reith



eee cre sep 28 si

cei Reoree SCQSIGVSe KOLINA

q tha’ a eee:
S250, Oa Augus: 2 Berit. thet Se wed
: estizon who €asi-c< t¢ za to Cub. BoosTGaae ers
vane, QF, was 31 yosrs old,
married, sa -enp Bis pernineat recidance o>
Ceile Gelesao =, CEES,

: RODRIGTA: state: that he entered Kexico at the © i
laterastional Aivzort in Neico City on January <1, 1961,.~
fad, WSS geenesl polivics. rsyiua, :

on

“., RooRt esonted & cortiftonts 0

net “4
on aFF 13S

for Bia mines Sos.

RODRIG. st.t2 thet the reasons Zor,
hed requested politic -cyisa in Hexico no iongze:

eSfect aac he Gesirs.. to senouaca big status of political
ereae asylum da Hezico. i2 stated that ho vanted to veturn to
ite Cuba vith bis -conta-old soa, OSCAR HIS RopsiGuss

COUFIDRUTIL

: Stoup i
zi crea dutozstis -
aad Daclassizication

SPRINT

Lo aes CNRS



NC35, zho had
ee Sy 3a Sothoz, I
estinga,

: a ST aagetodse Sit RE Zirat eatazed Wenteo op
. : Litieci els od Jel> Oat. SSR:
i Gepextac Kexico, on

27 of RODRIGUES tanto Kenteg: a
thet he yas a Sergeant in She Cubca
4 Sy acs, $$ watch “tine he

iftas
Januesy, 1551, Pre
Ustionsi Police as s4R of

resizase Secause hs cic uct =p9teve a the ogerations eo
ths polic3, Za Sete. Ama. that he thea’ osteiase explojmeat 20

a Cale? of the Fates Pina Faas Degertnent of the .tbee> id
. A naduct in seven, Cece} wasrs ho" remuined until Gaptexber ast

sce.

‘Be saa:
sotusaiag to es. ‘
iss result of This’ ¢:
rotersed te 25 tiie G-u, 1 ¥ Sercscutes bia ot de
es odlized ‘to 3 politics] seylen in ths Karst .

Bhoge fa Pirpovonaed ds e pauses 1,

oS, 1551, ies. RODAIGUSS Setod foe ‘autor
%0 accompany her ‘son, O20..3, of Cuban ‘az ceaaomunnsath to tas.



iG COoOurvINZut@IAL

EE city of Noucton, T2.:5 atzting that hor hus: 3. tod
: io the a © inzornztion 41>
: to indteats tuas

Cre ae on GO United States.)

’ £3 nontionss abova, RODRIGUES epzearec at the
Inaigvation olfise fa Lertd: catan, Lexico, on Lugust 9,
33th ené Goparted Harica, en routs Savane, Cuba, on sugusct

C5 1231, ante by 312 son, OSCLit, Tse

ro. - SLDRIGU24, on Eoptonbar 7, 1932, requested
buthortty’ os
pe husband to eate- Lezico as tn imaigrant. Urs, ROILIGUEZ
* <> Stated that Nese ALGICL HC=3é, ovner of the .
tueve Kola Phusasey 4n Esuico City, usd offered nim eee
eapioymont at & seia 7, 02 350 pene: Giz v.38. 3+) montalyz.

fe rotcuary 3,0 127:
posceates Braz

note ORT Wag eno:

. . pace ($390 eS

\USZ requested authority to onto Lozico,

Bo se Ey uae oa r
Ln & de was aiaittes 2s an immigrant for @ period of ons *

yeas, Since his wits 43 & exisan citizen by birth, Ze was ©
adzitted with porniccioz to sccept eaployzent at tha
Verszlles Phasuacy,

n : RODRIGUSS antexed Laxico at International éArport
sata Hoxico City, 4
t yf
i

RODRIGINZ stated that his residence in Mavanc,
: Cuba, 15 located at Calie Z, setween Thir< Avenue and Fina}
: Harenjo, Guanazacoz, zvana, Cuba, =

. RODRIGIZs Zurnished his residence in Mexico City
ig as Sindicaliczo ifo. o7, épartment 117, Coloni2 Zccendon,.

-Se 7

COUPIDZUTIEL

