104-10783-10428

ry

-

|

Ds SERRE Aa

17 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
| SUBJECT: Meeting with AMVIILP/I in Now York 4 June 1965

1. Two meetings were held with AMMIP/1 in New York on
4 dune 1965. g2T) first was a, brief luncheon meeting from 1340-1445,
: between A/1 afd(R. 1. Webster)(known. to him as "Harry Wills"). The
vetond vas at the Hotel Roosevelt from 2030-2230 during which A/T
Sas introduced to Mr. Harold Swenson (as "Mr. Safely") ny( Webster)

i abroad’since his return from Europe in April, but that he plans to
aeke another trip to Europe in July “for about 40 days". He had
Gade brief trips in May: to Philadelphia (bi siness) and Washington
(to meet "Mr. Breitneim" ~ He also planned to fly
to Puerto Rico 5 June on business, re 2 to- New York about
to gune.. During the trip he was going to discuss the possibility of
sorablishing a shop of his jewelry fim in San Juan. He was asked if
he expected to see Manolo RAY there and said that he probably would,
since they were friends.

@, A/l had little news to report. He said he had not been

3. A/1 said he had not heard recently from AMLASH/1 or AMLASH/3 ,

who is also now back in Cuba, He had received a Letter from AMLASH/2

from Madrid dated Lf May and passed it to the case officer. (See
attached translation.) He said he expected something (anti-Castro)
te break in Cuba by October 1965, but he did not appear to have any

firm basis for this date.

4. Prior to his next trip to Europe A/1 would like guidance on
two matters: - c

(a) What he should say to (UNSNAFU/19 when the latter raises
the question of the report given him in Paris in April
that ODYOKE might deal with anti-Castro elements if
they could get rid of Fidel.

(b) Whether ‘we have any candidates for him to suggest to
(iyrs to work for him at the Embassy.
3

5. The possibility of A/I sending a representative to Cuba to
assess remaining loot (mainly antiques and pictures) on our behalf
ig pending. (lis best candidate is his Geneva rep.

6. At the evening session Swenson had a general discussion with
A/1, stressing the necessity of obtaining more details on the Cubans
Mth whom he is involved and their activities. The atmosphere was
friendly and A/1 appeared to react well to $'S approach and suggestions.
The groundwork was laid for follow-up conversations with A/L, at which
it ig intended to acquire from him full biographic data preliminary to
A flutter, as well as the informetion referred to above,

Fy (cu. 0,

” SEGRET

Gru
