# 104-10107-10002

## Page 1

104-10107-10002

.U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

RETURN IN FIVE DAYS TO

OFFICE OF

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

MIAMI, FLORIDA 33132

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE. $300

PERICAN RELO

LUTI

Attn:

X42: POSTAGE AND FEES PAID

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

197.27

Jus day.

SIS MAIL

Central Intelligence Agency

General Counsels Office

Washington, D. C.

20505

• ms anal

Man 44

---

## Page 2

EC

IN REPLY PLEASE

REFER TO

INITIALS AND NUMBER

TMS: mlj

United States Department of Justice

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

300 AINSLey BUIlDING

MiAMI. FLORIDA 33132

August 15, 1977

/

Central Intelligence Agency

General Counsels Office

Washington, B. C.

20505

76-71-CI-CA

ATTN:

sary Nattools

RE: US vS. HEMMING

You are a witness in behalf of the Government in the case specified below.

This letter is sent to you in lieu of service of a subpoena. Please accept service of

this letter by acknowledging same on the lower part of the duplicate hereof and return

to me in the enclosed self-addressed envelope which requires no postage. Please

bring with you the exhibits or records listed on the attached sheet.

When you appear in answer to this letter, please report to the address indicated

below in order that you attendance may be certified. Upon being excused, you will

be entitled to such fees and allowances as are provided by law.

If you are the case agent with primary responsibility for the conduct of the investi-

gation of this case, please contact the AUSA or his secretary assigned to this case

immediately upon receipt of this letter for the purpose of reviewing the U.S. Attorney's

case file, specifically to determine whether all subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum

have been properly issued and delivered to the U.S. Marshal for service with current

addresses, and proper instructions with regard to the production of exhibits or records,

ete. Please call this office to verify trial date and time on Friday, Aug. 19, 19.77

Pretrial Conference is schedules for Monday, Aug 22nd at_

Very truly yours,

ROBERT

W. RUST

UNITED

A AlTORNEY

By ?

tom

Sherouse

Assistant United States Attorney

305-350-5449 Or 350-4471

Please report: Date: Monday, Aug.

22nd

Time:

Address:

Mezzanine Floor, Main P.O. Bldg.,

300 N.E. First Avenue, Miami, Florida

CASE NO.

TITLE OF CASE

ACTION (TRIAL OR GRAND JURY

76-71-Cr-CA

US vs. Gerald P. Hemming

TRIAL

TO THE UNITED STATES ATTORNEY: I accept service of this notice in lieu of subpoena

and will be present accordingly at the time and place designated above.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

IS XETEX PLEASA

RISHI TO

ISATIALS AND SUSINNI

MPS: mvp

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C..

03

Tuite States Arpintment of Juster

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

SOUTHBUN DISTHOT OF FLORIDA

300 AISLEY BUILDING

MIAMI, FLORIDA 33132

May 31, 1977

TRIAL POSTPONED

BECAUSE NEN' MISGE

TAKING

CASE

ATIN:

You are a witness in behalf of the Government in the case specified below.

This letter is sent to you in lieu of service of a subpoena. Please accept

service of this letter by acinowledging same on the lower part of the duplicate

hereof and return to me in the enclosed self-addressed envelope which requires no

postage. Please bring with you the exhibits or records listed on the attached

Sheet.

When you appear in answer to this letter, please report to the address indicated

below in order that your attendance may be certified. Upon being excused, you will

be entitled to such fees and allowances as are provided by law.

If you are the case agent with primary responsibility for the conduct of the

investigation of this case, please contact the AUSA or his secretary assigned to this

case immediately upon receipt of this letter for the purpose of reviewing the U.S.

Attorney's case file, specifically to determine whether all subpoenas and subpoenas

duces tecum have been properly issued and deliverea to the U.S. Marshal for service

with current addresses, and proper instructions with regard to the production of

exhibits or records, etc.

Sincerely,

ROBERT W. RUST

NIED STATES ATTORNEY

BY :

Assistant United States Attorney

Please report:

Date: June 20, 1977

Time: 8:30 AM

Address: US Courthouse, Mezzanine, 300 NE Ist Ave., Miami, Florida.

CASE, NO.

TITLE OF CASE

ACTION (TRIAL OR GRAND JURY)

76-371-Cr-CA

USA v. Gerald Patrick Hemming

Trial

-000000080880

TO THE UNITED STATES ATTORNEY: I accept service of this notice in lieu of subpoena

and will be present accordingly at the time and place designated above.

(Witness Signature)

---

## Page 4

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

RETURN IN FIVE DAYS

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

300 AINSLEY BUILDING

MIAMI, FLORIDA 33130

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE, $30C

POSTAGE AND FEES PAID

U. 5. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

JUS-A31

U.S. MAIL

UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA

300 MINSLEY BUILDING

MIAMI, FLORIDA 33132

Attn:

Thomas

Sherouse

---

