# 104-10185-10106

## Page 1

104-10185-10106

SECRET

NO FORSICS DISSEY

COUNTRY: CoCa

SUSseT RisITo RODRIGUEZ Gonez

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO, PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCT-316/00703-613

1 Septenber 1964

A TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce d

CSCI- 316/00595

25 August 7964

ĐẠ Ơ 3964

INFO.

PLACE 2

Mas cingzor,

FIBO REPOST NO.

- THIS IS

MATION

LE DEANTVE

SOURCE 4 former Cuban IS officer who served with she Cuban tateiligence

Spice until Aprfl 1964.

Headquasters Comments:

defollowing, report is one 9a sertes containing personality

Informacion provided by the source

and includes supplemental

informacion from the records of this Agency.

It 1s

requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

firet checking with this Agency

upon being re-queried concerning additional informat

staced that he did not know RODRIGUE.

personally. While he (source) was In Mexico he overhéard

Manuel VEGA, pseudonyn. "glarcos," the chief of Cuban Intelligenc

=: "Mexico; say that PODRIGCEZ was the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (General Direczorate of Intelligence - DGI) chief

in Brazil. (This 1s an amenduent to the above referenced

Feport.)

SECRET

NO FOREIGY

DISSEM

STATE

DIA.

ARAY.

I NAVY

•BEP

CINCLANT CINCSO =

(Nois: Fiela dirritation indicatad by ***)

NSA

ISIS

3

OER

Hostandsed 160-50-8001

FBI 2

HE/SUICE

LIVELYADR

TSAR

HI CI/LIA

2. CI/R81

B'IE

RIDLAN

8 MAR 1985 51 8 (2), VE 1 (2),

CI 4. RID 1

201-331529

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

4X-1649

-TO PROJECT (AINCO/1.

CSCI 316/00703-64

1

¡COORDINATING!

CURES

3/PJ

---

