# 104-10112-10148

## Page 1

104-10112-10148

SECRET

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Đo Nọt Reproduce:

4 March 1965

SUBJECT

to Reäsolgnment

'I ls requested that clearance be granted

the reassignment of Archang, mone

ZRJ EVEL

Career Agent,.

co Carácas, Venezuela under cover.

116-97:

5025%

•s security cledrance mmber to

will depart:

3.

It Is plenned that

Headquarters

during June, 1965.

Desmond FiteGerald

Chief.

Western Hemlsphere Division

Date."

7/12/1v

Security Appiovel has been granted for.

the use

Chief 15s

SECRET

---

## Page 2

105025"

SECRET

REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE SO

SUBMIT THIS FORM IN DUPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE E

TO

• Central Cover Staff.

DATE

THROUGH:

Office of Security

HAL

SUBJECT:

(True

Named

OmaN, Lacien Best

7 ENIRY Inclusion off

or Subject o

OD.

the

42040204

below e

When

notified

à thàt co

cover

Cover List,

1a requested asonoted

specifically au

authorized and instructed to conceal niorAgency.aft

19558

•be

lation

A CHANGE: Subject

currently included on the Domestic 11st

Fork the: reason

noted below, it is

requested that:

4805962-

t3 minem loyee

be removed from

the Domestic Cover Mst

7550502

The rolloving, change be made

+ 14362423

Bility;

USE OF COVER

ALL

PURPOSI

scheduled for duty

7,20

27ssas

OTHER

GOVT.

AGE

OPERATIONAL ONLY .

REQUESTING OFFICE E

STAFF OR

DIVISION

SIGNATURE BAS

TITLE

• nu

Chasint

CENTRAL COVER STAFF APPROVAL

OFFICE, OF SECURITY

1322

DATE

SAC

RE

---

## Page 3

he 5025x

HE SECRETA

REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE:

SUBMIT THIS FORM IN DUPLICATE, ENCLOSED_IN SEALED ENVELOPE

TO

Central Cover Staff

THROUGH:

office of Security

1 33.49 02 P3.20

SUBJECT:

Nane)

i Nantes

ENTRY:

Tae lus ton or Sub Ject

ny notified that cover

on the Done stile toger

Subject

Hilisse

spect escally authorized and Instructed to concent his agency corntration

7 CHANGEL Subjecti aC

currently

Inc luded on the Domestic latForather reason

noted below, it is requested that

Eas rais employee bel

renoved from the Domestic Cover list

J. me rollowing change be made

li schealso for Ruby s

TYPE COVERS

USE OF COVER

BOTHER CONTES AGENCI

ALL

PURPOSE

OPERATIONAL

ONLY

OR

DIVISION:

I CHATURE

AND TITL

chacter

CENTRAL COVER STAFF

APPROVAL

OFF ICE

OF.

SECUR ITY APPROVA

SIGNAI

DATE

1322

SECRET

---

