# 104-10186-10258

## Page 1

104-10186-10258

RMATIONH

SPOR

INFORM

HON

EPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Milo material contalna laformation ilectine the Metonal Defene ol the Uniled diassa mala lo masins de the laploder lame ittl

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CS CI-316/00716-64

Luis Jesus PEREZ Martinez

9 September 1964

NO. PAGES

3

REFERENCES

• DATE.OF

INFO:

PLACÉ 4.

DATE .ACO.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SOURCE

1964

Vashington, D. C.

September 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters. Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Luis Jesus PEREZ Martinez is the First Secretary of the

Cuban Embassy in Bolivia and a staff officer of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI), 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11

Headquarters Comments

In a report dated 8 April 1961, an untested source reported

• that he had talked with one Captain Luis PEREZ, a G-2 officer, whe,

in a conversation after a few drinks, volunteered information on

Cuban troop movements. PEREZ is a staunch CASTRO follower.

2. An untested source, in a report dated 27 April 1962, gave

a run-down on the Cuban G-2.

In so doing he identified one

Captain Luis PEREZ as the executive officer and plans officer

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

I AIR

NSA

I oce

FBI2

CINGSO F

_I&NS

5

2

STATE

I DIA

I ARAT

TRAVY

REP CINCLANT

(Nore: Field distribution indicated by "#")

INFORMATION REPORT

WH/SA/EOB A WE/5/R

CALLA

WH/SA 11031

WEIMADRE CIR&A

WH SdR 1

WHISA/CLI

WH/ WAVE 1

RID/AN

TOTALS

WH/SA 7(1), WE 1(2), CI 4, RID 1

FOAM NO. Y

OBSOLITE TETIONS EDITION°

INFORMATION REPORT

IX- 1555

NO PROJECT ANNUG.

IN YASHAL

CSC1-315199

ICOOFDIMAPINGIR

L:A1S0A

LD

•A

708.905÷00

JIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•, E

NET

NO FOREIN DISSES:

CSCI-316/00716-64

3.

of the G-2 Represton, the new name for. the Departamento de

Intestigaciones del Efercito Reboldo (DIER).

On 15 July 1962, an untested source stated that Captain Luis PEREZ,

who fought with CASTRO in the mountains, has

n high post in an

intelligence unft such as DIER or G-2.

* An untested source who was

captain in the Caban rebel army fron

1 January 1959 to 29 June 1960, reported on 8 August 1962, that

: Captain Luis PEREZ was the Deputy Chief at G-2 Hcadquarters.

He

described PEREZ as having been born about 1932, being about

five

feet eight inches tall, 160 pounds, having a medium build,

#ruddy

complexion; and thick, curly blond

hair.

from a very

wealthy fanily, is married, and has two chitdren.

He was a law student, came

is very serious, was educated

at the Belen School, and was fornerly

the Cuban Military Attache in Venezuela.

6.

8.

31 August 1962.

born in 1930.

According to a travel manifest one Luis Jesus PEREZ Martinez,

Secretario Adscrito at the Cuban Embassy in La Paz, Bolivia, left

Santiago, Chile, for La Paz on 6 December 1962.

A source which has proved to be fairly rellable gave the following

information

Luis PEREZ:

PEREZ was the Cuban Military Attache in Hatti and later

(1961) in Venezuela; he left both countries when they broke

diplomatic relations with Cuba.

In Decembor 1961, PEREZ

traveled to Washington, D. C.,

with Jose MOLEON Carreras,

Cuban dolegate to the Inter-American Defense Staff of the OAS.

He

was a captain in the Cuban rebel army.

Source was not certain

PEREZ belonged to the Communist Party.

'He was born about 1928,

is about five feet nine inches tall, 160 pounds, has dark hair,

light eyes, and is

white.

The following travel information on Luis Jesus PEREZ Martinez,

Secretario Adscrito of the Cuban Embassy In La Paz, Bolivia, was

taken from official travel manifests:

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

VIBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

CSC1-216 00710-68

- 3=

5 October 1962

- Arrived Arica fros La Paz

5 October 1962

• Left La far for Santa

5 December 1962

• Arrived. Ardea fros Santiago

7 December 1962

• Left Arica for La Paz

3 January 1963

- Arrived Arica fron La Paz

8 January 1963 - Left Arlen for La Paz

PEREZ carried Cuban passport 62/496.

9.

In a seport dated 25 January 1963, a fairly reliable source reported

that Luis MARTINEZ Perez, probably identical wich Luis Jesus PEREZ

Martinez,

was an official Cuban courter running between Santiago,

Chile, and La Paz, Bolivla.

10. A former Cuban Intelligence officer who has been living in the

United States since 1963

and whose reporting for the past nine

months has proved reliable, gave the following information on

PEREZ, whose nickname is "El Polaco," was born in Cuba about

1930.

He is about five feet ten inches

tall and about 170

pounds. PEREZ' father is one of the ouners of the "Case Perez""

in Habana.

During 1958, PEREZ was in the Sierra Maestra.

Prior

to 1961 ho was a Cuban Military Attache in a Latin American

country.

In 1961 he was appointed Chief of the Occupation

Section of Cuban Intelligence (G92) In Habana Province. He

held the rank of captain in the DSE.

In a report dated 29 June 1964, a Cuban exile with excellent contrets

in the Antillen Marine Shipping Corporation said that Lieutenant

the former Cuban Military Attache to

Luis Jesus PEREZ Nortinof the Cubar delegation to the DAS in 1901,

Venezuela and a member

1s now a member of the

DSE. His parents reside at Calle San Miguel,

number 428, 2nd floor, Habana, Cuba.

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN

DISSEN'

---

