pace : 24 JAN 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: 0/SA/DO/O

FROM : 4H. Clark Schor
Chief, Plans and Review Group
Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA) Request

REFERENCES : A. Memorandum for 0/SA/D0/0 from OLC
: (OLC 78-0351/1), dtd 19 Jan 78,
same subject
B. Letter for OLC from Chief Counsel/
Director of HSCA, dtd 18 Jan 78

1. This memorandum is in response to the request in
paragraph 4 of Reference A.

2. CCS maintains a file on one of the 24 individuals
identified in Reference B, as follows:

E. Howard Hunt - Approximately 100 documents con-
cerning the establishment, maintenance and use of
cover for. subject during. his. Agency career as a staff
employee from 1949 to 1970, and, concerning subject's
participation in Watergate and subsequent related
inquiries from 1972 to 1977, With respect to the .
request in the third from last paragraph of Reference B,
the Hunt file contains seven documents pertaining to the
period 1958-1963. These documents involve requests for
State travel orders while Mr. Hunt was assigned to
: Uruguay: undér: State cover, ‘a State cable regarding
Mr. Hunt's extension of assignment to Uruguay, a momo of
resignation from the Foreign Service following assign-
ment to Uruguay, and a memorandum requesting appointment
to the Foreign Service for assignment to Spain.

3. Additionally, CCS records contain index. cards on the
following individuals:

a. Colonel Bradley H. Ayers - The index card shows
that.a personal military cover file on Col. Ayers was
destroyed; date unknown but estimated to be approxi-
mately ten years ago when CCS separately-maintained
military, State, and non-official cover files were

E2 IMPDET

i}
; CL BY 004925
SECREY # EDSe


consolidated into a single numbered file system, begun
circa 1967. We have ascertained that DDA/OP/SPD/MPB
holds a file on Col. Ayers.

b. ‘Frank. Sturgis aka Frank Fiorini - The index
card leads to a memorandum for the DDO, dated
8 May 1974, Subject: Agency File Review on Watergate,
which states that no indexed reference and no leads to
information on Sturgis aka Fiorini were found in CCS.

4. In order to further identify Captain William Morgan
(item 13, Reference B), a middle initial and/or date of birth
is required.- CCS has several index cards on William Morgans.

5. As agreed between Mr. Shepanek and ir.—Latta of this
office in a discussion on 20 January 1978, relevant CCS files,
in this case that of Mr. Hunt, can be made available for review
in CCS by an appropriately cleared HSCA Staff member.

H. Clark Schor

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressee
ie DDO/TSS/IP/EIS |)
1 - 1088 (Hunt) C tipi
1- Ley >
a Hees CCS/PRG rono via boar 7 -

HCS:acn (24 Jan 78)
