# 104-10169-10324

## Page 1

104-10169-10324

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

LAiE

529

I4 SEe 61

• DIRECTOR

ROUTIG

14-1

ROM

¡CTION, SA 6 (SR NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1600-18 368)

NFO

COP, ADOP/A,

CA 2, CA/ PRO, CA/ PROP, 6U/16 8a VI

FU/INT 2, EE 4, 100 4, WET, S/CE

SEP 1$ 20062.61

PRiORIT

IN 28948

18-1

PRITY DIR CITE

1021

REDWOOD PSYCH ZRTORCH

REF A. DIR 87819 6ur 88969J8

30181

B.

DIR 18683 Cur 94607)

1. CLASTONBURY TALKED RIS OFFICER ALINON ONSULAR CORP DINNER Y

SEPT AND HAD LUNCH. WITH HIM ON 8 SEPT.

IN IS 185 # POINTS A THRUSD

EMPHASIZED, WITH STRONGER 7h. NuE it VESTEii POWER WHICH ABLE

ANNIHILATE USSR SHOULD NEES ANISE, CLASTO SURY PRESSED PUINT NOT TO

UNDERESTIMATE WESTERN SOLIUARIZY OR SUVER "NIA JESUE MiS SAID SERIOUS

EFFORTS SHOULD BE MADE SOLVE SITUATION SHONT OF WRO NGE_ CLEAR WEST

WOULD NOT CAPITULATE TO SUVIET THREATS, CLASTANBURY SURTIS CITED

DISUNITY OF EASTERN BLOC VITH KEFERENCES ALBANIA, EAST GEG., HUNGARY,

AND FOLAI. ALSO MENTIONED GROWING THREAT I5A CHINÀ. AS REGARDS

ATOMIC TESTING CLASTONEURY SUGGESTED THAT "EHHARS USER NOT AS STRONG AS

IT WISHED WORLD TO BELIEVE•

?. KLIMOV REPLIED SOVIETS WOULD SIGN LAST FERMAN TREATY THEREBY

FORCING WEST TO NEGOTIATE WITH EAST GERNANS RE CUNRIDOR RIGHTS AND EVENTUAL

RECOSNITION. SAID USSE WOULD ASSIST LAST GERMANS MAINTAIN THEIR

D

SOVEREIGNTY EVEN TO POINT OF WAR, REITERATED FRAN ON WEST GERMAN

REVANCHISTS AND POSSISILITY U.S, MOULD ARD THEM NUTH NUCLEAR SEAPONS I Me.

SECAST

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TIE ISSUING CARiCE iS PROHIBITED.

Cops No.

6 - 705

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASS: 3: 1956,3

SE027

CATS

TO .

FiON

ACTONE

INTO

PAGE 2

•JA: 25941

1021

THRU NATO: SAID TESTING WAS RESULT OF WESTERN MENACES IMPLIED THEY LOULD

HAVE SUPER 3OMS THEREBY PRECLUDINO NESD FOR STOCKPILESS

SUGGESTED

SOLUTION WOULD BE FOR WEST RECOS:VIZE EAST GERMANY, AUREE TO DEMILITARIZED

ZONE INCLUDING EAST AND WEST GERLANY, AND DISSOLVE NIXO AND VARSAY PACI.

30 END COUNSELOR MELEOURNE COVERED DASICALLY SAME GROUND AS PARA

1 ABOVE IN TALR WITH SOV SECOND SECRETARY ZEG! ON & ISEPT. ZEGAL REPLIED

HE UNDERSTOOD U.S! CONCERN THIS SITUATION BUT FEARED WEST GERANS MIGHT

EXPLOIT TO INVOLVE BOTH U.S. AND USSR.

4. REQUEST

BE RELIEVED OBLIGATION VEEKLY CABLE INVIEW LIMITED

OPPORTUNITIES EXPAND ZRTORCH ACTIVITIES BEYOND AREAS ALREADY REPORTED.

• END OF MESSAGE

C/S CEMMENT: *OUTLINED ASPECTS TO BE DISCUSSED WITH SOVIETS RE BERLIN SITUATION

RECO-MENDED ALL POSSIBLE CONTACTS. BE

EXPLOITED.

##PEQUESTED WEEKLY BRIEF ZRTORCH ACTIVITIES.

paint

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIDITED.

Copy No.

a/P/

---

