# 104-10073-10058

## Page 1

104-10073-10058032

5514/DB/NT

ORIG

WASHINKOS

INIT

WH/3/MR/ICO

551

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE N

SECRETE EP 2

• NOFORN /CONTINUED CONTROL

EXT?

DATE E

45610

614 JLY 2958

3O

FEDERAL BURKAD OF INVES

DEPARTMSNT OF STATE Brach

FROM

SDISESOERRX CENTRAL FELLE

CONF

WH 5

Marked 2s

None require

A Bignaturet

LiNcolns

Liste

INFO

01/OPS, S/c 2

FI,FI/OPS

217103360

127t

ROUTING 3

•2:

-3

322222X

5.

:6

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

RE CABLE

PHORIY

OPERATIONAL

¿IMMEDIATE -

INTIAL

INITIAL

TO

NOFORN/CONTINURD CONIROL

RETORN SO CIA

Background Use anur

HE Do Not Reprodie

INFO

16-3 364

DUT50362

CITE DIR

KOUT: 50362

12/

1X3

FROM

14

DATE OF INFO:

3 and 12 JULX 1958

(MICROFILMED

SUBJECT

TRAVEL PLANS OF MANORI, GOMEZ FLORES

OC. MICRO: BER

NICARAGUAN/ CUBAN REVOLUTIONARI ACTIV

anda

REFERENCES SE

OUR TELETYPES OF

2,7, 9 and 1i JuLTe

L. ON 12 JULT COLONEL MANUEL COMEZ TO

NICARAGUAN REVOLUTIONARY

LEADER, HIRED FRTENDS IN MEXICO CITY THA

HE WASEEN NOGALES, MEXICO, AND WAS

UNABLE TO ENTER THE UNITED STATES WITHOU

POSTING A

$1,000.00 BOND.

- HE ASKED

HIS FRIENDS TO AID HIM.

20

ON THE AFTERNOON OF 3 JULY

ALTARO ALVARADO

SL COMPADRITO) ,:

ANOTHEE NICRAGUAN REVOLUTIONARI, VISITED CARLOS ORTO SOCARRAS, CUBAN REVOLUYTONARX

LEADER, - IN MIAHI.

-DIN

TO ALFARO, PRIO SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN LOOKING FOR A

PLACE TO ESTABLISH A

ISTRIBUTION BASE FOR SIX YEARS AND THAT HE ACCEPTED IN PRIN-

CIPLE THE TDRA OF ESTABLISHING THE BASE IN NICARAGUA. PRIO SAID HE WAS READY AND

ABLE TO PROVIDE THE FOLLOTING THREE ITEMS REQUESTED BY ALFARO:

100. SUB-MA CHINEGUNS

1 AIRPLANE, AND U.8. $10,000. PRIO ACCEPTED ALFARO AND ORLANDO (LNU) AS HIS CO-

WORKERS IN MAKING THE NECESSARY ABRANGEMENTR RUT SAID IT WOULD BE NECESSARY TO

NECROL

NOFORIN/CONTINUED CONTROL

BRETASING OFFICER

ВЕПРАРІ!

AUTMINTICATINO OILIG

DERMIRITER

09581

511201

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ROM

DIRECTOR

CONF

ANFO

CLASSIFIEDS MESSAGES

SEGRET:

NOPORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

112-29

EASt AS

No 08 Roon Value Destroy -1

RE Indexing (check one)

Marked::

- None

required.

Signature

A ROUTING

DEPERRED E

INTALS

PÄGE... 2

- OPERATIONAL

IMMEPLATE

A OUT: 50362

INFO

CITE DIR

NOTONN/CONTINUBO CONTROL

AWAIT THE ARRIVAI OP TONY VARONA, HIS ARMS SARSHAN, (FIELD COMMENTS ORLANDO

(INU) MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH ORLANDO GARCIA VASQUEZ, A CUBAN EXILE):

3. ALFARO SAID HE WAS GOING TO MAKE ARRANGESNTS TO STILE DOWN IN MIAMI

AFTER MAKING HIS PLANNED TRIPS UP NORTH" AND "OUT WES

HE SOURCE COMMENT.

ALFARO HAS RELATIVES IN CALIFORNIA. THE PURPOSE.

-OF. HIS

TRIP. NOETH IS NOT KNOWN.)

SUALLY RELIABLE AND SENSITIVE

10 THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS FROM THE S

SOURCE WHO FURNISHED THE INFORMATION IN

5. INNIGRATION AND NATURAL

E HAS BEEN ADVISED.

END

MESSAGE

21-3

BASED ON: (NEXT 1973 (INA 1256) and MEXT 197O (IN 1212)

20/-

55336

-cOo

TINO-DEFICE

SECRET

EASING BOFFICER

MOTORN/CONTLIUED CONTROL

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE GONE DEFIRE TE DAUDITER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

---

