Sy oe te A oe atm een

104-10185-10245)

FROCESS:NG

Chief of Station, S:exico City

Chief of base, Monterrey

Transmittal ot documents for ifVANE-1
TEA REGURED. REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: See para 2

REFERENCES: A, DIX-21902, 18 May 1964
B, DIR-22666, 20 slay 1964

1. Transmitted herewith are the Cocumenta required by LIVANE-1 to
service the AMMUG letter from his wife and the test letter from hiexico
City. B is estimated that the A.U.UG letter may reach General Celivery,
Monterrey, any time after 7 June 1954,

2. KURIOT has requested that the documents be used for flash
idectification only in connection with the AL{MUG operation. At this time
Headquarters does not «now if there will be additional AMisiUG-1 traffic.
therefore, the Monterrey Base should retain the documentation until
Headquarters requests that it be returned,

Att ents: Herewith
B)

Distribution;
Orig, &1- COP/sexico City, w/atts
1+ COB/Monterrey, wo/atts

CHESTER

‘ATE TWPRD

28 May 64

Internal Dist.
1-WH/¢A/CI
1-WH/SA/ESEC
1-RID
1-WH/3

Wieta save

(afb t ! Exuce—2_Cheever—_-___.

: '
pH/Bfatexti—— an



3 pd

OnET

AB MEMO Ro. 6891
28 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, wH/sA/CI

ATTENTION : Mr. Leonard Libby

a

SUBJECT : Trensmittal of Mexicen Documents, Case 4/63

REFERENCES : A. DIR-20506,
B. KIXI-9h12,
eH Din 21089,
Ds MexT-
E. MiTY-0851,
F. DIR-21909,
G. MuTy-0858,

12 May 1964
12 Mey 196
13 May 1964

2, 1k May 1964

17 May 1964
18 May 1964
21 May 1964

i. Transmitted herewith are two reproduced Mexican documents
issued by TSD.es requested by your office ia line with the above

references.

3/

2. The documents 2k
No. 436747 and 1961|
of deine Senchez Papo, aré to be used only for flesh identification

for receipt of general delivery mail in Monterrey, Mexico.

be returned to TSD after use.

They should

3. Please sign end return one copy of the enclosed euthentication

receipt forms.

Attechment: 1 envi.
As Stated

Distributicn:
Orig & 1 - Addressee

