# 104-10418-10041

## Page 1

104-10418-10041|

OUTGO'"'G MESSAGE

2. =

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

COI

ACE

700

TRE

MÃO

DCI

ONE

D

0

CLAISIFICATION

SECRET

MISBAGE HAYOUNG ADICATOR

STAFF

DATE TIME GROU

2023532

eme

15-4

CONF. / C1-3

DIRECTOR

INFO: FILE

DDO, DDODO, OCC,

EYES ONLY deS, euR 3 Chat -3

TO :

_INFO

RYBAT ELMABLANKET y

Tyro

15-0154

REF:

72167 IN 90646614

FACE

PAGES

GE REFERENCE NUMBAN

851765

ADE#

NO INDEX

NE FUMA TO

PER

(Eo)

•1 FOLLOWING ARE HOS TRACES ON WILLEM LEONARD OL TMANS

<203-155221}• (SUBJECT}. DPOB: 10 JUNE 25, HUIZEN, NETHERLANDS.

OLTMANS IS b'1" TALL-Y

FYI:

2: JOLTMANS STUDIED AT YALE IN 1950 AND WAS EXPELLED FOR MIS-

BEHAVIOR. FOR A SHORT TIME HE WORKED FOR U.P. AND "DE TELEGRAAF" A

DUTCH NEWSPAPER, HOWEVER, HE WAS FIRED FROM BOTH. IN 190856 OR 57

HE MARRIED AN AMERICAN GROUND STEWARDESS. IN 1S6O HE DIVORCED HER

AND IN NOV 6I WAS LIVING WITH A FILIPINO MALE. OLTMANS WAS ADMITTED

ENDFYI

TO THE U.S. IN NEW YORK CITY AS A PERMANENT RESIDENT ON ID JUNE 56-4

NUMEROUS FIELD REPORT INDICATE THAT

3. MIN 1956 SUBJECT ARRANGED AN INTRODUCTION FOR HIMSELF TO

PRESIDENT SUKARNO. HE THEN TRAVELED WITH SUKARNO DURING THE PRESI-

DENT'S TRIP THRU EUROPE IN 1956 AS THE PRESIDENT'S GUEST. SUBJ'S

TRIP FROM INDONESIA TO THE US IN FEB 57 WAS PAID BY THE INDONESIAN

GOUT. INDICATIONS ARE THAT SUBJ WAS BEING USED AS A TOOL'BY THE

INDONESIAN GOUT TO CARRY ON PROPAGANDA IN THE US AND AT THE UN. I

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

"OCTO COF

RELEASINO OFFICER

CLASBUICATION

COSAINATINO OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

E

2

IMPORT

.: 480:0.

---

## Page 2

13-00,000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

AGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

COI

ACE

TOd

TeR

MRO

OMF 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATON

D

DATE-TIME GROUS

STAFF

DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO: FILE

851765

PAGE

2

of.

PAGES

AGE REFERENCE NUMBER

INDEE

DISSEM BY:

NO INDEN

RETURN TO PER

SO PILES

(SUBIS WIFE SAID THAT-DURING-THEIR MARRIAGE-OLIMANS-WROTE SUKARNA

4.

IN. MAR 196O SUBJ DESCRIBED HIMSELF AS ANTI-COMMUNIST. É HE

STATED HIS VIEWS ARE AT BEST THOSE OF A GREAT ADMIRER OF COMMUNISM

AND WHAT THE COMMUNIST SYSTEM REPRESENTS• HE WAS DESCRIBED AS

HAVING EXCELLENT CONTACTS WITH ALL THE COMMUNIST-DOMINATED COUNTRIES.

END FYI

INCLUDING CUBA-Y

ACCORDINE TO PRESS REPORTS

ON L8 DÉC bE SUBJECT ANNOUNCED HE INTENDED TO TAKE LEGAL

ACTION AGAINST DUTCH FOREIGN MINISTER J. M. A. H. LUNS. SUBS

ALLEGED THAT HE HAD BEEN REFUSED "ON INSTRUCTIONS FROM LUNS" A

DECLARATION BY THE DUTCH EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON, D.C. THAT HE WAS A

BONA FIDE JOURNALIST WORKING FOR BONA FIDE NEWSPAPERS. AN EARLY

REPORT

1972

BEER STATED OLTMANS WAS ATTEMPTING TO HAVE THE GOUT PRO- ...

SECUTE LUNS FOR LYING AND MISLEADING THE GOVERNMENTO ON INDONESIA

DURING HIS TENURE AS FOREIGN MINISTER. THE 19 AND 20 JAN 72 ISSUES

OF DUTCH PAPER "DE TELEGRAAF" CARRY ARTICLES EXPOSING ACTIVITIES

SUBJ WHO ENGAGED IN DENIGRATION CAMPAIGN AGAINST LUNS. STORIES

ACCUSE SOVIETS OF COLLUSION WITH SUBJ AND OF INTERFERENCE IN DUTCH

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RELEADING OFFICIA

•ABINGATION

REPROC

COORUILATIDO ONENES

TON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE IS KIBITED

AUTHEATICAIINS OFFICER

E

MAPSST

lipu

---

## Page 3

13-00000

VUIC6

MESZAG6

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

co:

ACE

TOG

AGE

0MF 0

0

CLASSIRICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDUNG INDICATOR

STAFF

CONF:

TRE

DCI

PAGE

3

FACES

DATE- TIME GROUP

CITE

MASSAGE RIFERENCE NUNDER

DIRECTOR

0

INFO: FILE

851869°

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURN TO

DISSEM BY:

PER

D

ip fILes

INTERNAL AFFAIRS. 1

b. IN 1963 SUBJECT WAS A JOURNALIST AT THE UN CONNECTED WITH AN

OBSCURE BUTCH NEWSPAPER. THE OTHER JOURNALISTS CLAIMED TO NEVER

HAVE SEEN ANYTHING OF SUBJ'S IN PRINT. WHILE AT THE UN OLTMANS

APPLIED FOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE UN CORRESPONDENCE ASSOCIATION.. HOW-

EVER, HE COULD NOT PRODUCE A SINGLE CLIPPING TO DEMONSTRATE HIS

JOURNALISTIC ACTIVITIES. DURING THIS TIME, SUBJ GAVE LECTURES,

EARNING ABOUT #60OO PER SEASON, ON INTERNATIONAL POLITICS, TOUCHING

ON ASIA IN GENERAL AND INDONESIA SPECIFICALLY. HE CLAIMS TO HAVE

GROWN UP IN INDONESIA AND THEREFORE KNOWS THE CONDITIONS THERE Y

7. IN

• not a terest

SUBJECT

> DESCRIBED AS OUTSPOKEN ANTI-AMERICAN,

OUTSPOKEN. PRO-INDONESIAN, AND PERSONDA NON-GRATA WITH THE DUTCH MY

8. IN APRIL 1967 SUBJ CLAIMED TO HAVE SOLD AN ARTICLE TO •

"RAMPARTS" MAGAZINE ABOUT THE CIA IN INDONESIA. HOWEVER, THE ARTICLE

WAS NEVER PRINTED.

9. IN FEB GO, SUBJECT INTERVIEWED JIM GARRISON ON DUTCH TV ABOUT

THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION. y

REDOCT

SUBJECT

I0. IN FEB TELEM

DESCRIBED jAS AN EMOTIONALLY DISTURBED

24

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

MELEASINO OPTICER

CRRLJ891A101

COCASINATINO OFFICIRS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

AUTHINTICATINE LINACHS

IMPOET.

---

## Page 4

13-00,000

UUIGOING MESSAGE

COD

AS8

SIGNAL CENTERUSE ONLY

coI

ACP

10S

DCI

orf

D

CLASAIRICATION

SECRET

MES$AGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

CONF:

0

FAGE®

4

0F

PAGL#

4

DATE-TIMEGADUS

CIT#

MISSAON NAPARENCH ALMBAN

DIRECTOR

INFO: FILE

851765

INJEE

AO INDEE

FETURMTO PER

DISSEM BY:

PUBLICITY SEEKER WHO DOESN'T SEEM TO CARE WHAT TYPE PUBLICITY HE

RECEIVES.Y

11. IN 72 OLTMANS WAS PLANNING TO MAKE A FILM IN THE USSR ON

ECOLOGY. HE VISITED THE USSR 2J-2E MEVTEE IO MAKE FINAL ARRANGEMENTS

FOR THE FILM. AT THIS TIME LE

CLAIMED SUBJ HAD.A

5-YR RETAINER.FROM SOVIETS AS OVERT. PR HAN. CNO INDICATION IN FILE

IF FILM EVER MADE-JY

12. SUBJ'S TRAVEL: 1956 - MET AND ACCOMPANIED PRESIDENT SUKARNO

ON EUROPEAN TRIP• DEC 56 - VISTED INDONESIA. FEB 57 - USA• 1960 -

CONGO. 1964 - E• GERMANY, CZECHSLOVAKIA, POLANDA HUNGARY• 1962

CUBA. JAN 72 - US'SR• FEB-MAR 72 - USA. MAR 72 - USSR•Y

WITH HLFEMTEN PARASGANDY

13. NO LATER INFORMATION IN THE FILE. ABOVE

MAY BE GISTED FOR

(AGUAR). 4

24. FILE: 79-6/46/3. E2 IMPDET d

AGL/DDI

AC/CI/OG

703

703

EA/PIA

03

EUR/BNL/N

DATE:

MAY 76

0S

EUR/I

ORIG:

UIIT:

EUR/BC

CI/OG

s uid 71 Rl e bereng

HELEANMO OFFICEN

COORSIMATINE OFFICARI

•.CANSIONCATIO

REPROC

¡ION BY OTHER THAN THE ISGUING OFFICE IS

103

Diffnn

Trod

B4UOMeATa orncra

JHIBITED

IPOST

r. т:.

.?=;

12/pd

---

