104-10418-10306]

Deputy Chief,” CZ 23 September 1964

SECRET/EXFS ONLY.
NK ae
i
i Deputy Chief, CI/Project
i

RILINGUAL - QJ22EM
Correspondence of Marina (OSWALD

1. The attached subject item is from subject to a
girl friend in Lenincrad. Ths writer evidently in reply to
addressee's letter discusses at length reproaches made to her
by addressee which indicate that she would like to continue
her friendship with addressea. She mentions her present living
conditions and reminisces about the time she spent with ad=
dresses.

2. This item will be of interest to te to
Mrs. Pgerter of CI/SIG. a

SECRFT/TXFS ONLY



13-00000

_ 64322BM RE/kk

to KHONTULLVA, Galina Pctrovnw
General Delivery

*[Lesingrad, K-67
: fr OSWALD, Marina, Mrs;
629 Belt Line Ra.
Richardson, Texas
Language: Russian Date: 19 September 196h

Summary & Partial Translation ' .

Writer starts her long 7-page letter with an inscription on top of
the page "My confession to you Galka (dimiritivefrom Galina)," Writer
forther states "quite a long time passed since I received "wonderful'
letter from you. However I am not angry at you. Your reaction has
been quite normal. I decided however to wait with my reply. This
morning and the previous days I thought S===se_ whether it is worth while
to write to you again." Writer then continues wondering what the Russian
newspapers had written about her and feeling hurt’ that addressee had
forsaken and apparently criticized her in her previous letter which she
believes also a consequence of some news items that addressee had read
about writer. Writer indicates that addressee should know her better
than anyone else because they were so close for such a long time. She
reminisces about the time they spent together and reminds addressee that
when she obtained her first job, the first thing she did was to buy
addressee a present. Writer further tells addressee that her conscience
is clear and that she does not have to apologize to addressee for anything,
however she would like to hear from addressee and to continue their friend=
ship,which is of course,up to addressee to do. Writer repeats that she
is the same and has not changed since they parted. Evidently in reply to
addressee's reproaches writer states that she is not “money mad", she
must however think about her two children and for that reason since
reporters somehow got hold of her husband's diary and published it, she
then agreed to let LIFE Magazine publish the diary with her remarks for
which she received renumeration. This money will help to educate her
children and will enable them not to depend on other people. Writer
calls addressee's attention to the fact that the children have a "mark"
against them and for this reason she has always to think about them

. first. Writer further indicates that addressee apparently reproaches

her for not returning to the "homeland". Writer points out however that
things are not as simple as it looks from afar. It appears that addressee
suggested that writer should not have taken any money from newspapers.
Writer states that it is easy to talk about humanitarian deeds and ideas
but it is difficult for one to act on a high plain when one is faced with
the problem of feeding oneself and little children. Writer then discusses
y performance of the Leningrad ballet in New York and indicates that she is

SECHET Z
EVES ONLY > .



13-00000

© Sie at
BoB eyes SUNN a

aig eq 4 —

- proud of the accomplishments of “our ballet". Writer further discusses
: her present living conditions, states that the neighbors are very nice _
to her$ emt states that she reads PUSH” 's poetry, and that she t#¥3 Zicce/
to speak to her older girl in Russian, however, the latter answers in
i English only. At the end writer again reminisces about the time they
spent together and hopes that she will hear from addressee.

Segnel
EVES GEL



13-00000

- on. 1 O

MEMORANDUM FOR:
ATTENTION . :

i FROM :

SUBJECT

Stozey 7
EYES OMny :

~ SECRET

Chief, CI Staff

Mr. T, K,.Chalmers

Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Operational: Support)

Project SRPOINTER i
Informant BANJO
fH YI9 144 00.

—-—= —4: tte Bit is from Mrs. Marina OSWALD, 629 Belt
~——" Line Road, RichaFdson, Texas to Galina Petrovna KHONTULEVA,
General Delivery, Leningrad K-67.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Victor R.
Attachment

ev arb)

secret SECRET
EYES py"



13-00000

“sia SIA .- .
: ARU0S we



13-00000

peor : Liner,
Depere2 vero eee 7
Lf BE 107
Goourdo owre unos Glace
@ arex ne wees eager | ey.
lgecwoe” neretsere 0S” pte. Me wa.
weTI 9 pre ocizperdce, Gas fra
Berg eres gerece — pugeecteeens, Pree.
el ee reper orSamme, Begow
Lo Fee 0 Fee aofgryywwe pow
eemeoro pywtth o Fee , eleergeF Lecce
i aereaS® wed  omate 7 eer? eer]
: Zaroria, JP pre sraro we eral
- eage Sex oto ume FF Coc, xo
pre ee wie Ane coos? Lier.
oe regeg ee por ee por
oh ape spe Meth Pam see eeanerere,
4 eomsm ss Ae GEG, | Woe one
‘Drees pe enitepuyemes eo oN
( Kacecoces OF Laer, PPes nooee ek
| 2. se | wexoFahnco easly awel, ©

{ : nae
ote. , co A AE /OEF |
cheer
|
i]

SB Bape mer pee ey premene

gOS
we 3 Gs A


13-00000

eee 5 Japon uy Fer cece a a
Ll Re. De peer pent we sateen
| 1? Dew een» eel eee
F Frencceve KOCH oP ee

ae Oe ney mete meted ween

Somer apo, naar and Bae oO
ee BApergy * Aqonelep 29> Vnagootere

2 eto

5 Yon arto S Feet Arcee.
ee, AORTA er Gyr cetred, aon

7 Pp
5 Cf grtre  wc3eerdo

ae eee roleele eo. .atyrtonxcer,
(8 Luate, yp me Frew me aysadee
O reenee ye me pe ayingien,
— 9 see Gero

Covecp ace “ee OG reser
Cate ee Lf date vo covet? Leeap reck Fed}

one” gy 2 er eect BO% FPec0 |
Ream Oe Fa eda Ease



13-00000

Al 7 “
Vo peer CARLES FE cFeve wwoepy| |

~ SECRET ane .
EYES HY...

Toop oe H
Bepeere , eID fake gP eee CPaeD i
i
!

Sr erFeerR |) Oo Sowa,

~ | bere ofterenen e Boe pee Bp

Pe me agpiecce Mewteeo. lo Fete
ee wfypre rin yh Foe
eco meneo r

Aer eneer, (lo Paxrrde retype, +o

GPE ree ere netveter wecenen, Yoweri,

mee , ant  prangese, 6 Wp. aeepe

" | oo etre Beeweee Geen oe.

| ey wren eofeew xe Suo sew Ytoer:
ne aan a ero
acne autem Pfreteeecuetnenre FP cuts TERE,
Yffoe wi weer Voom Gpecocuuy
| Becaiow.w odep ,e rola) are
4a erie Fee octafveacp yennccece |.
¥ ogee Ste eye. :
Spore , 2 Jere Kes? Aan gpetconsep|

Once wenn” yA dean LOTR POS te
« nee PPL AP ore 9 cet
ene — anece. Sop Pence apo

Kaen ap eee Part eee.
Bacenct ORB DP ee teort
OF Gemeehe prod , - + eae

Sees 2 Saat
; eyes Unt te


13-00000

{

Se Aengforeer Fore GO or ore ape

we Poets Ea eng Cece Dancer Kea. eebete

: a x 5
a, Ferree Pee arc gece 6. Pf cesin

| Caner) 2cZb.. Lee eanGset wore ge
| eeceeee | phoe pefrotceare we 6 wa Byo

POO pene Ce nemo eree LEE" |
j wrte tee eo fanceceseu re ecae nce |

a)
i

SECRET
eys On
Ccacare . Mad Biss een

ed peaeer72 FECR 1» 270 pp Ke efor

Quapeeed geoereidod (Meat per crectecey)

& poeteto Bo gaeero Ltn pore,
erep eee 2eO Geter 8 nee riyen,

fe penetwes peerage e 9 petgere.
SQ Site Steed eerie | eo eprer ate -

forgyoeurerets, JP osugpoecnn,, (oxd. go"

freer? Pewrp eee Fee eee EL Ure oe

OPC + yeperere © ween.” Speee

39 dee rt QPRe 7S, Se
Aencere fePowan eo eee ce
(en eft | mosgenese sees

il eeaag’a bao Pwae Yer, He eae gous.

ee neo ee
verigee eB
seGanewe "oo os ona

aes AGragrene Lece Fe

AEG at We Se iA |

- SECRET | io
EVES GRY of anleet -


13-00000

gn :
oe qu

oo

Benim. Br, feagoceener Or
£2 yelp 4e poroges he ery es,
erefacis _ Uo pre te ee Oo

Rosy oOo eo eee Se Ho ~
? ‘Phbapti pices, 22 ~ ne Fex<ap
rayfecore Pe oe
Pera fig S04, fa Ar sadrF2 2 ance
pew ze GI ecerusto tecFecente
|e estes cope  noesene
a | ormeredy “ DeroGercecmisy 2 legacy
a4 qemggeete dt eee pen. Canc,
“) eeege™ fe Deeter nets na oye fe Fee
eo eeeeney Fe. Feeee, reowge reFO-~ 200
PRT AS  oPerR  -F eemecs ters (a
Din PS Chane O Pes 260 veckeg!
Tal Ogee ow Hepe crue epee SS.
1 Ke egtpece eo wecenep peo Ble xe,
| Reo scocaerep (“e cotce Eyeee/ |

; Caen  eceee” [rr satyiero 270 x

SECRET
EVES. HLT


13-00000

“genet
EYES ONY

“e  CFace 9 os: e
op. i. ORR Dee cee
IOMP Mie ee tn er oreRe

Aca Cee, Tlipan hesseey
eee gpbarier d” ’

POKER greene

Kee
oom Cor cow ~ 225
Reece *
O Baie eo ee
oa Atfeze crak re _ Peete hk
eee agence SN acct ees

a : = ae
i Aoaucfece %, SeeFe On Reece,
or Tom
j a eee eer ere Okence 2 CPR
| Bee marten - pecewe 2. , :
! = Stve > |
Heys. OOD Ch apmeepe,

6 SERRET
yes gnu -



13-00000
Heh
ae ww

a

| aaceuenooe see Fae ——
L fpooe: xX Om yf oer Cero

a. coke CE pew sreO. a7 }
BP edpteeciacet: emo ¢ OP™ , secpen|

ae cen ey ed Cent Cord eI

 eoboe waagpercces. ea bs es
os eaeneg* ese enctee, ce SFO apace S

Bp OER. UY resroany Fe SPEED
| oe pPapoct, 39 teovafeert orice neath
lyopeccene , Batman oFoupe Se
f 2 Delors aso pppees |

—_ |
gr neces, Ue Once OGinires p
UL) ebnGendar eee we Seno pects le Rete |

a wesey Co eceesee S32 9 Kteriee eee,
ensoe. ;
mefenerce Se eneammreas “
| Deeg 2a euoO- cadcmemetateat esa

ae Preece” aetgiee? Cae meee mere
= 2 OF Owre note emery tele Ae ashen.
aa re gyceer PK gk eee er eS |
bona yl SC Btewenveze were . 2 i
; ; Rypet e tel mary)
: EP afer
wytege. GO. gpa |
Vl Apes oteees aGlewwe i
_Orenes Bopehe wie fe CA oie
°) Panece |e toe se sue. he
A a toa ik moe POR
Xl ener eeoce ces, ares ;
Rhine fate gata ie a ES

i
i
i

eat
ee


13-00000

ow aopec,
Yes. Ptarine Cpecele
629 Bel? shine 7I0€. ; Bo

ST goat oe

‘
