# 104-10229-10441

## Page 1

- 104-10229-10441

DISPATCH

CLASSITICATIUN

SECRET

10

19010.

Chief ML Dixialon

FROM

Chief of Station

For adj Para

@ 4/ АП. F.

PROCESSINO

ACTION

MARXID ACE INMARING

NO INDEUIRE BIQUIMO

OMIT QUALI

MEANGUANTIAS DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

AND WALT

MIC #0111 m

=. F.

1/s/c

AMBUD Medical Program

ACTION REQUIRED. RU LANCES

Reforencos:

A.

B.

UFGA-25901, Para 1. (14 Sept 1966)

UFGA-25261,

Para 1l (3 June 1966)

• UFGA-23072 14 Sept 1965)

D. UFGA-21058 (27 April 1965)

E. UFGA-19189 (28 Decembor 1964)

F. UFGS-5352 (29 October 1964)

G.

UFGA-18091 (13 October 19G1)

UFGS-5186 (21 September 1964)

1. UFGA-17171 (17 August 1964)

Action Requirod: As stated in parngraph 3;

As reported in Referenco 1, paragraph 1, the medical/vocational

rchabilitation program has reduced the number of

Individunls icceiving

monthly medical dependency payments to six "hard coro" cases. One of

is funded by Garcin Linos.

The background of the

on pro correspondent at taduat one oyart ng resolution

of the problem le contined in References B through I. Being forwarded

(Une sort age he orange a inter on a none on tos

and commont by the Medical Staff.

for annlysis

Medical reports originatod subsequont

to the submlasion of the Referenco C roport and are being forwarded

Under Separate Cover as Attachmonts C, D and E.

The current status of each of the remaining cases is summarized

as follows:

EPILEPSY

J8202(280105))8

Recelving outpatient trentment from Dade County Department

I Public Health Anti-Convulgiye Clinic, 6 A Clinic repor

dated 31 May 1966 statos that l

solzures which the Clinic le attempting to control by

medication. (Attachment A.) (V/S/C)

mont , spares tonin

ontinues to hav

B Attachmenta U/S/C

A through f as

described

continuod..........

Copy

Distribution

3-W/C w/T cy each

Att. V/S/C

(plus 1 cy Dispatch

for each 201 1ile

w/pertinent Att.U/S/C›

GAGUP I

Escieced to:a actsmate:

#r.3:1:6:r; 8:1

CAOSS REFLALACE 10

CLASSIFICATION

SE CRST

DATE TYPEO

28 Sept 66

DATE DISPATCHED

OCT 6 1966

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-26075

MEAOQUARTERI ARE ARMIDLA

19-124-25/5-3

plus each 201 file

'OIN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

499899

SACKET

SIMILA ANO MUSHIA

UFGA-26075

1200(2017529)

CANCER/BIndoes Removed

Receiving outpattent treatment; most recently for a

kidney infection.

AMBUD-i statos that it la incrediblo

that Subject continuos to 11v0.

The case is summarizod

In a report prepared by Di. Vulgas In May 1966.

(Attachment 13) (U/S/C)

do

1.

(201-281-131))

Receiving outpatient care at Jackson Memorial Hospital

Department of Psychiaty.

A 5 May 1966

the Hospital recommonds that subjoct continuo undor

psychiatric outpatient caro for at lenst anothor

ycar: (Attachment, &) (U/S/C)

3(201(2081029)

Continuing to roceive treatment from Dr. Mora who

wroto on ll August 1966 that Subjoct is vory 111 and

In need of furthur psychlatile treatment,

(Attachnont D) (U/S/C)

D(201(292760))

Continuing to roceive troutment from Dr. Mora who

wroto on ll August 1966 that Subjoct has shown signs

of ronl improvement which may result in his bocoming

scLf-supporting Attachment E) (U/S/C)

_(Garcia Lines. 201 not

hynilablo)

BLIND (Advanced glaucoma)

Recolving outpatient

caro at Jackson Memorinl Hospital,

(Attachment F) (U/S/C)

doscribad in Reference C for handling the cares of (

ida in a requested for the loadquarters reviewinglaction

mbo oxpanded to include ill the remaining cases and tha

WATE to inforned of the conclusions roached concerning th

ultimate disposition of these casos.'

An amount of $250,000 was originally authorizod

for tho medinl phase

tho ANEUD Program.

Expenditures under

this progiam. have ronched a lovel of approsinately $215, 000 with

ills outstanding at the prescht tine of 9, 250.

that the cases remaining which requiro medical treatment as

outlined above will necesstate the expenditure of sums in excoss

of this amount.

Philip G. ELMARD

delication

HEN HER

---

