104-10486-10226]

Hawa

This materiel contains informetina afeeting the Metienst
USC Bere TH and TH the (ranemision of ferelation of which In Gay eussee U 4a unsutberioed peEsen,

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Defense of the Colted dates erisin the meaning of the Ripionage Law, Tide
te probinited by law,

* SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

REPORT NO: CSI-316/01239-64

country Cuba
suuectNorberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo CATE STR «=—«12 October 1964
\A
No. P 2 o
pew se ee

REFERENCES: pa KOE, oP 10 E
bare oF 1964 9 Not
a Washington, D. @. -
pate Aca@.October 1964 IRD REPORT NC.

THis 1S UNEVAIUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DEFMITIVE. AIVRAISAL OF CONTENT IW TENTATIVE.

source. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments
The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first
checking with this Agency.

1, Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo, pseudonyms “Bucareli" and
"Noel," is the officer in charge of the Guatemalan Desk in the
Departamento de Liberacion National (National Liberation
Department - LN) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2. Source first met HERNANDEZ in 1959 when they were
introduced by Ramon VAZQUEZ Montenegro. In mid-1959, HERNANDEZ
started working for the Cuban G-2 under the command of VAZQUEZ
and Eduardo DELGADO.. When DELGADO was replaced as Chief of the
Check Up and Vigilance Bureau in 1960, HERNANDEZ was also
discharged from the G-2.

3. In late 1960 or early 1961, HERNANDEZ started working for

the Cuban Electric Company as a simple laborer for street -work aloag

with another former G-2 member, "Pelencho.” In 1960 or 1961,
there was a public demonstration by the employees of the Cuban
Electric Company who were dismissed becavse they were suspectéd
as counter-revolutionaries; HERNANDEZ attacked the demonstrators
by hitting them with guns and arresting some of them. In front of
the Electric Company wax a Communist Party, site and HERNANDEZ
visited these offices frequently and wis usually seen in the

company of new and old Communists. SSTT
SECRET are
NO FOREIGN DISSEN Sacer
{rate Tor Tawar Trav Tae Trsa NT Toce

[Rage Feld date buna indicated by”

NCLANT_CIXCSO. £ I&NS.

coca 3A 7 (1), WE 1 (2), Cr 4, RID1

er


SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01239-64

-2-

4. In December 1960,-Ramiro VALDES formed a group of twenty-five
men who were former members of the 26th of July Movement in Habana
and former G-2 members. VALDES formed this group on the pretext of
an expected invasion from Guatemala and this group was to stay with
him if the invasion should take place. HERNANDEZ was a wember of

the group.

5. HERNANDEZ was transferred from the Cuban Electric Company to
the Departamonto de Seguridad del Estado (Department of State Security -
DSE) and later to the Dad.

6. In September 1963, HERNANDEZ spent a day in. Jamaica in order
to establish contact with some Daminicans who were, according to
source's information, to be transportéd to Cuba, He once tried to
get to Mexico, but, was denied a visa. -HERNANDEZ studied for a time
ina “Revolutionary Instruction" School in Habana; he seems to be very

convinced about the government.

H _, 7. HERNANDEZ was born about 1939, is six feet one inch “tall,

14$ potinds, has a slim build, a fair complexion, and short hair. He
is married and has a daughter who was born in 1962 or 1963. HERNANDEZ’

father lives in Camaguey Province, his mother is dead. HERNANDEZ‘
address is 70th Street #908, between 9th and 11 Streets, Habana, Cuba;

his telephone number is 29-5927.

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on HERNANDEZ.

ECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
