# 104-10167-10119

## Page 1

104-10167-10119

Sonai

9 Septerbes 1959

NDHORAIDUM FOR THE INCOAD.

SUBJECT: Corvurantion with Reichhardt, & September

1. I phosed Reichbardt in the afternoon and canght hin at

his office. Le sold ne liet be had talkod vit: 31'1 PANLEY en

the phone and will limeh sith hia nart veak.

I told hin that the cryptoya he hod saked for 1n his

3. I told Ralchbardt that ve had consulted sith Stata and

migration asd l'at lay bave no abjection to gering a visa fo

the vita al Kensos DIAs and the 11d9. I fare hin le plant teat

16-3 Medco G155) vell Lavo Ler apply for an tesieratios tisa and vill

Palchhardt 18 to oblain 1y a'fIdavit of sapport 1901l

sogethe with sesentable preef of a reperity lo previde

chat support.

Reichardt sil choci vith stias, tie District

Director of Insigratios, Sor detalla on hou this east le sede aul

I Will abose Ela tha adiresa as B002 as I fOt 17 SJ (e0100 16 3

lenabilo Baleniardt 1s to seo ATriS and arranco to nave Karcoa i

DIAZ processad in tue nene.

This 1n baing dose nè tho peres

of the Ds/il1en Alfaira Section, sinco parolino Marcos in pseado

sus a alatare, and INS wald like so fot that cian-ed up.

has boan a change in the boad of the Intlligance setup at Dis

and the neu 5ay la sommhai unsure of his ground do that Os/ids

le trying so nato a leu points with hin. Clearina up the larsos

wal vill ald in tal.

.I soid Reichbardi va had recaived & letter Iron Carlon

EXISHiT to to estest ibat Her1o SADUVAL V111 be 12 Hlars Et

Che end of the monts and iset both carlos and tarlo vant. to cano!

told bin to contact carios, and to arange to taix with Mario

Miant so that tbey vould sos hare to cose lo lashiatoo.

So

says

I gare Rolehbardt the 818t of RAVA 2616 (DI 22335) sh82

1 Chat JOSe LANICHIL al Sentiago, Duba, and a irustod gourca,

nant Angel suti so talk vith a coupio

of Station officera lo avarlo

ROS sald ho 1s a seaber of te Dli: Lans organization and chat le

Croup presenti piacs sarairE, but casealiaatlos.

ind asked far

help la settio up a secure channel al comunicallon with Ricardo

DE LA LORTE 1O MAnI, ROS' sãa to 80 80 Minai sion: 1 Septarbes

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Y/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

_ SEGET in

to Bã0 LORI. Jalebbardi had no infesantion an a visitor artiring

tO 50O SDe DINE bOys end LUETE, I espialed tbat ve had estherised

and would send bin the details.

6.

Balshhardt was andous for an so get Mrs. DIlI to the U.S.

because keroos is preening him bard and says she 1s 1ll Dran an

03

NB/3/40

Distributions

1 = halshbard Conversation

1. 102

M- Yaress DILL Lans fIle

1 - CarlOo CLERSHAN FLie

_ STONET u

1/BR

---

