# 104-10216-10348

## Page 1

104-10216-10348

:.

10 March 1965

gon

Kay

MEMORADUL FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Meetings with Emilio Gabriel Collado and AMHiPl

In New York CIty, 8 Harch 1965

REFERENCE: ANYHI?-I Memorandus dated & March 1985

Meetings/Time/Place and Purpose:.

1.

AMTRIP-1 vas met at bis office at 1200 hours on 8

March

for the purpose of brlejing hin regarding bie role do

the 'rapprochement deception operation" and his soeting at

1500 hours the same day with Mr. Collado in connection with

the aforementsosed operation.

The undersigned had lunch

with Al"HIp l et a searby restaurant and renalaed ulth

him through and including his seeting with Mr. Collado.

Dotails of the booting:

AWHIP! was briefed for his mosting with Ambassador

Carrillo in Paris in connection with subject operation. The

gist of the story that AMHIP as to convey to Carrillo 19

as Lollous:

The AKTHUG regime has reached ita end.

Soviets are

ready to back out because of billion

dollar annual

burden.

USA will continue boycott until ANTHUG

18 renoved and neutralized.

USA accepts original

revolutionary goals as soud; also accepta fact

that capable PBRUMENS are still in high Government

positious today.

After ANTHUG and Communies. have

been ousted, LSA w1ll be w11110g deal with such

capable PBRUMEN Officials.

ANYHIP-l was Instructed to allor this information to come up

normally la one of his prolonged conversations with Cerrillo in

Paris.

Be was told to use Mr. Collado's name as his source of

the information.

AMWHIP as also instructed to tell Carrillo

a little as possible about Mr. Collado but enough to make r.

Collado sees bonifled as the source of this information and also

to permit the Cubane to check on his existence 11

they wished

to carry the matter to that extent.. unHip vas also told to

Ale

---

## Page 2

-2-

soe Carrillo on his way back from an ostensible businese trip to

arle and other citles in Europo.

ANWHIP was given ne other

specific missions tor tale tet however, should any requirementa

arise between now and his day of departure he can easily be

contacted and briefed.

$ For the record it was mentioned at this time that

• Nick Sanson (Nestor Sanchez) would no longer be in contact

wIth AWHIP-l no he had bees fiven a ben aseignment in.

Caracas. AWHIP-I was also told that the undersigned would

also soon be leaving his present assignment and that ANWHIP-l

would be introduced to another contact in the near future.

True to form ALIHIP l expressed his reluctance to be in

contact with new personnel just at the fine wben he felt

he knew, trusted and understood his present contacts.

Bald, however,

while be didn't particularly approve of the

U.S. Government's manner of rotation of 1t8 personnel; he

understood that it was neceseary and was a policy of long

standing.

This was ln responso to an explanation of the

departure of Sanson and the undersigned.

At the request of AWHlP 1 the underaigned accompanied

AHIP to his meeting with Mr. Collado. The meeting took

place in Mr. Collado's office,

located on the 28th floor,

30 Rockefeller Plaza.

Mr. Collado's office number in the

Standard 011 suite of offices 1e 2816.

The undersigned used

the nane lo. William Wicknan in this meeting with ir. Collado.

The meeting one scheduled for 1500 hours and lasted only about

ten ainutes.

The sole purpone vas to effect & personal meeting

between the

two principals:

thue allowing ANEHIP-1 to describe

Mr. Collado to Ambassador Carrillo 1f such a move was necessary.

The secting was also useful should the two men meet bometine

In Europe since both men travel there frequently on buelness.

After the beeting in Collado's office the underaiged took leave

Intter returning to his office.

with ASHIP 1 by telephone once again at 1800 hours in the

event there were any developments which he should be aware in

this incidence; there were none.

AWHIP-l was given the mus ofs3, 300 for expenses he

and Ircurred during the past several tripa to Europe In KUBARK'

bobalf and also to cover his forthcoming trip to Europe on the

above operation.

This money 1s also to be considered as an

Indirect partial reimbursement to AlWHIP-1 for 97,000 he bad

Baven tO MILASH-I (see meno dated 3 Merch 1963, paragraph 3.1.).

It should be noted for the record that no mention vas made to

AwHIP-l that this payment was nade for other than operatiom.

sit did

not include any reference

to the $7,000.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Gi Subjoct took departure from-Ahist at approsinatoly

1540 hours as stated above; there were no incidenta of a

socurity nature to report.

Addend an

It should be noted for the record that the underaigned

aloo pald a vialt to the offica of 00/Contacta at 205 %. 42nd

Btreet in order to thank the undersigned'e contacte there for

thels efforts in securing the serviced of Mr. Collado for the

above operation.

Thia courtey call was made at approzinately

1150 hours and lasted only a few minutes. The offices of DODS

were not visited by the undersigned.

WB/C/FI/TC

---

