# 104-10247-10013

## Page 1

104-10247-10013

SETON 2118210) 15-2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

•LASSIFIED MESSAGE

2=. SECRET

PERSON/UNIT MOTI

MA. RATY

TOTAL COPIES 4.U

REPECOUCTION PROMIBITED

SP

T. LAME

680, EE4Y

13, OUSER

ECRET 261694Z 20-2

PRIORITY DIR CITE @ADR) 3755

KEYWAY PBRUMEN GUNOPS ALASH

20-2

7 APR 65 IN: 39600

3 MADR 56761

10 COUSPORT I REPORT OF 5 APRIL MEETING VITH ANUHIP 1 AiD ALAST a

QUOTES LATTER AS SAYINGCAUlPS DID NOT WAiT ANY MORE PHONE CALLS AND

INTENDED TO TELL THIS TO OLIEN.

20 AT S APRIL EATING WITH GROWERY, AWHIP 1 DISCUSSED HIS METINS

OF 4 APRIL WITH QUIOPS, CSEPORT AD ALASH 2 AND O, QUOTINGGU:OPS

AS STATING:

A. CQUALI DEFECTION ADDED TO PRESTISE OFCODHOPS AT JADR 2'15-55Y

AND AT PBRUMEN FOREIGN OFFICE THIS DOES NOT JIBE WITH GUDDLE DUFO

FORWARDED REF 8).

02 B. MINISTER IN SADE HAS RECONENDED TO FORZIG: OFFICE THAT

CODHOPS BE REASSISNED MADR AS FIRST SECRETARY.

c.

RÉPEATED PHONE CALLS FRO: JLIEN INDICATE ODVOKE DESIRE

MAKE GUÑOPS EM "ASEIT", COONOPS IS A GOVE OFFICIAL AND DOSS NDE GET

TO BE ASENT. ODYONE WANTS TO TRAIN GDROPS SUT HE DOES NOT NAiT EU

DECO.IS INVOLVED.

---

## Page 2

118

396!:

ri::

TE CALLS OR ATTENS ANY HOOTER-

WITH ODYOKERS•

3. AMWHIP I EXPRESSED. BILISE KUBARK SHOULD HOT CONTACT COUROPS.

A. I NO NEW PERTINENT UDOZE JATERIAL PRESENTLY AVAILABLE.

S. ViTH REGARO TO ZA ABOVE, ETATION HAS NO HARD INTO AS TO SASTS

FOR QUHOPS REASONING. HOWEVER ON 23 JAPCH QUHOPS TOLD OLIEN THAT SE

HAD FOUND AT EMBASSY COPY OF (QUALI LETTER IO ROGELIO PATINO ISLISIAS

IN WHICHCATALI IXPRESTED SUSPICION THAT SUHOPS WAS RECEIVING

FUNDS FRO: ODYCKE. CQUIOPS SAID HE HAD KEPT COPY. IT MAY BE THAT

HE RECENTLY HAS SHOWN LETTER TO MINISTER REASONINS THAT CONDEMNATIO.

BY GUMALT MOULD SERVE TO PROVE THAT EDWALT AND COUHOPS VERE GT 55..

GOOD FRIENDS AS OTHERS BELIEVED AID THAT THERE WAS NO COLLUSIO:!

BETWEEN THEN.

02

SE: SO AS PROSPECTS FO: DEBRISFING OR TRAINING QQUHOPS ARE CLEAR.

ETO MADR 1559 HOURS LUGAL TRES T APIL TUA PLE 995. PLS CORESO

• VIEWS PRIORITY. IF HOS AGREES MR.

a JETD I APRIL FOSE

SECRET

CF:

SECRET

---

