# 104-10161-10141

## Page 1

104-10161-10141-

PRi, Part I

ne Lomone sa a bled blograche sketch on Subject who 18

aturalized American citizen currently residing In Habana, buDa

Faro

• LEMILIO AMeriCO RODRIGUEZ O3

Date of Birth

*E27 Jamuary 1928} 09

Placo of Birth

& Habani, Cube

Bationality

8 Amarican (naturalized Fovenber 1949)

Feraanent Addrosa: (Route 2, Box 500, Edentong Do Ga

Business hadresa • Centro saturiano 505, 353 Zaluota St., Habena

Temporary Address&

Education

Jiabana, Cube

088 LCaleglo de la Sallel Habana, Cuba

Alcon forther High School, dew Orleans, Las

Received Bachelor of Science and Master of Arta

Degree from Tulass University, How Orleans.

Undergraduate horks Selentsfla Medicine Progres,

najoring in Psychology and nincring 1n Blology

and Chemistry.

Graduate Work: The tumanities, majoring in

Linguistles and Literature, Lacke one year

to complete work on PheD.

Language

Subject is equally fluent in English and Spanish

end has a knowledge of French, Portuguese and

Itallan.

Hork Experience

8 During the period 1948-54, Subject was amployed

ncowe unile attending lulane.

Siace April 1954

Subject has been emplojid In Habana as Assistent

District Manager of the Habana Distriot Sales

OffIce (representatives) for Apploton Electric Co.,

irrowniert & legenan Ilectric, Century Flectric,

Hubbard & Co., Hubbard Muchman Products, end Tho

Oxonito Company. In this capacity he has been

directly responalble for all business operations

of those compandes throughout the territory of

Cube,

SECRET

19Rs

---

## Page 2

14-09800

Other Data

Fantly

¿ Due to the economie and political situation pro

vailing in cuba and present restrictione on inorted

goods, Subjoot 1s considering the advisability of

making e change whoreby be can Improve his present

standing ani future potentialities in secordance

sith his educational quellfieations and proven er

poriences. He 1s interosted In working direct for

an Averieon Company, either at hone or abroad, with

starting base salary of about $12,000 a yaar.

Subjoct ls married to an Arerican and has fou

childres. Ris brother la a US citizen residing in

Now Orleans, and although his peronts are citizens

or Cuba they maintain a roslience in lew Orleans.

---

