104-10472-10086

Ravurn photos to ABrewrE/§

OFRAS TER.

Le Comoata rogerding ths co7ttnued parilcipeiion ef. APATkE/S ta your
BRESKL! affart howe teen hold pecdt-¢ enctorer evelesiions of hey reporting.
With thove in hand, wa fold a enre equitesle Jutmont om var part eould bo
made of ber potentisl as 8 seerd ehertetora munted 16% IRR er a9 a log.

tare Fesident axsst in the EER,

B. Tao & impltcstions of 8/5'e rolsiionohtp aith Irigory C018 end on”
eesecenent of 4/5 for utilisation in 9 WK cparatia, have bees sumsd up in
CVHeBTIS, and 1b is percrally arreed bare 2+ Nesigrertare that 4/$ would
bo uecitable for this tyye of on sparetion. Uspendier un the eno roralts
@esiped of an omration, 6 relations ip with Ceriots e:teice by © preepective
AEN trepoler, eculd to viewed efthor positively ot evativoly. If, Cer
araaplo, 4/$ bod beer encourered ta furtler her Maiasn with Lud, thon ©
rip bo tho UTS! a1 pone Cetera date might have beor recemerded for ths

of ecining edfitional .ncercotion on iS ante @,erentt on bom grout.
Qa tts other head © tris foe 7i or FY parpame eruld, w fool, de lintted
by theses cantante tn that 4/$ would prots bo subject te provesstio. ancD
(naide or {Ailited in perfarsia: ber given task by hoary gurvel Neco.
Mer pelstionobip with JC's, nevever, 9 arly ano of wer reptratoing faster
in deciding on @ ropest xoumted irtp for A/Se

Jo Ths ovaluation of Ate Pl predu:ticn pesaltt:2 froa hor first trip
bev provided oars itoa ce te Ler potential eas en obsorver cod reporter of Hl
poaitive cad eparctionsl iutelitzerce. “er overell rating as.ea otosrver UE |
®nob oBtute®, Cudkorer evalvetiors of tre ano positive latelligenan © I
ipsertnetion resuitir: froa hor trip ure awlesed. +o. IT fumd it to be H
of slight ef ne walmm, UNI gevo o olightly higher oveluetion: 6f veluty
ef Lnportance, bud asources gouli wot bo yuitode Vitel datetle ware notebly
losing, tho reporting was vege. ~..I''s ommwata gd inalestians of bexia H
oreervetiona which vould have esasidershly eihenesi the report (tha of
eightiza, sliitude of plasn, csw of air ort, tave-off tine, otc.) indiaste |
nga of A'5ta cencrise [> comparison etth reports of ether trevolera |

i
H
i
}
+
i
H
if
H
}

witt Lstlo or lees cporationa: tetefirg ther d/3 bad, ler rererte rating

waa love 110 long report ox otustion, eretiite 2 an a/i'e part, although
gesccsad to renrese-k @ scholarly treatise oo Lo eur icct vce evolmted ea
fragesatary, 1 0rs ari Leased carat a 2 'Ste we cor. tions. Tb obrust

us a3 boing palve te atten,’ to Gralyse gach # brved Meld es Soviet cdvostion
With eo obviowly Udtle fertal encwloive ar 1 inate ecq-alstence with tha —
Brbjecd. Thlo racort vee not discos: ated. ihe only 1ortio: of CFitse378)
watan fo being considered fer eisttiona] dierarteeiton te pararrept 2
ecntatniag 2610's statenrate rerercicg WIN + wermavel wried 1S vas
*peloriens $0 rut is Ror pepurt,? and wach CATILiA feloded in bie covortng
Aiopatens AU %9 rivorting of ber rentorte was faite ALL iy all, oo co

say thot 4/6'p prota tian wes ace etertiine ty iinwessive, oat Juglt Geotica
for 9 cejost brip os trie haste well bo o I8ttle Legis

be tating 6 f.'f perpoe) eazova ant af A/S, tb te alfraclt to
phola calagertanta.y ef Lier cr u98 17% anSOLt be considered for 8 Irigy oa the
pesio of f. quali ftestonbe 42 0 iMtoreture bearer, cae pusstt le (eves of 9
> oeretion, W/F woeld ngve to tare a cox teh sates scowhedge of the Bassten
Laeruege We cure but caring $2 Hlerotre or ttetritutig it. 175 dose peed

pet dave WML Planer, 3 qucationem.aver Lest vee on, as ua hove dh ecuvered i

fata past wwer ir Qeration of Cle tre, © ree, sharp individual,



i

Rename pees
PI MEME EH NR cuneate ee

“yy G8 A arte als

extrem ls keukedguable us coviet and wrleas Sistrer, eewsentca, set
sa the well-trained Tosios agitators

Paliiles ta orwer be efieettesin sctre
AlOangh aparently hacwleteest te ss evecte at ootgeing Ln nannEr, to

hareo netiizy or which bo vatre & Sts artienlaiica wth sie gpaten wor’, her
ablay te WL her ow Lh 2 debave with @ trolad avemeter, ber potertial
for atiestteely bocle Ae bear or chotghy <wiet oars of ontaing oF her

paseo al for eertig tho asszes. Tow hee ish nod abt Tod OH CBEST
Qo tires’ crests, Bs thet es woo Geis ty G0 wo S01 8 oD wt corists by
atest-e rartoar folk earye, Shiv maser et lecries “ros experiance thet Onis
oot igus waa nary ec! an Gorhviowl Wiatility then an acoot. Singing ead

laying ettrestot the cust wa- ted erceca, bet alco tavite! tho ai Uitte with
tho cad rosuit bal-g cor fiocotion of eemare. Morice end mplicetion ty the
Rovtets of etricbar controls ever all “L02]. trevelers. Povanso of share
Ineidents wo have berun reapralaiy ow PF tochiiqus end devising osu emo
for recching our tare’ grow. * bom to howe @ peper out for yoo in tha
near futsro, outhfalcg exw of ow anertcnos In out rf efforts uti liaieg

KEGATI® Grovelers durine the pest yosr snd oupcestiars fer the futere. Cur
would bo wut A/S wold bo eamebst Limited ta bar

$. aa to AK 's e.wooretally getting horeelf into tho University ef
heesow far a year's atady, we do rut rererd tho p sribility with mush bhopse
In every pant instance, wtont sxcevtton, wero Aneriaans bere stesaptad ta
wake individual arrencemats vith Sovist wiversitios far nrolonged study, tho
Soviets Reve allow! tias te mete oll the prelistnery errangcmnts w te
fina) stor. Jood hefare closiy the deal, ibe ssericans hove bom told
Ubay cast become part of ty Avoriesa exchimgo prozrete touilly, ty
At 1s boo late to ezply or tho individuals 40 not mot the quallficotias. = |
sgrocment for the Acedontc Year 186461 12 not yet oienad aad scaled
tho Soviate are -digplaying thair vsual chanpescility, \o do know,
» 60 oF 12 vmtobar, the mrter of students to be axbangou uaa BS.
ne etaden! quali “icationg fer applicants, but all epplicasta in the
4 hows leon 23 yore ar “yer, Bevo been caildet.o for 0 dectarets degree
bawo been fluent {x the Seusster lenpurge. Jt to Mehly wilitndy thes the
tere of calection will chance fer the Aesdasie Tosr 10-61. Fite
Into nero of ihe ebovw-~menticned estegerica eni it lo doubtful cho would bo
poeepted, limaver, should oho (or ‘vr van interest uieh to obtain infenasiicn

rogerding the aachorgn, of cay do 0 by directin @ latier tor

uss

ULE

Bre fevid mn’ ord

Intsrunivereity comutties en freval Grente

HO? Se 117th Ste

Bey Yor® 27, How York

6. Vo heve tried to vicw a priam wip for i/5 tren ell peacible myles,

beced on informatinn es hen Mere ot Peo! wartars emi ovalestinus of bor first
pertarcanca, ond, frankly, ero teat dosen't soon te bo 0 peaitive beck to
Jeter ante at tra precent coment. dvsrvar, vo ero opes to Gay further idee
ed emeyosiions vhioh tho Hab feole say ttatify ceasing ber beat oa spothar
slesicn. I8 ie possible that sore ery opeatry will eopecr botuesa osy and
Jonsery, when, 02 understed, Af will be leaving tolsinite

Te Enolnssi are A/5's wo sole alides out the une blast amd ohito
print cbich yoo reyuweted be re tcmed.

8. treces on A/S'e roverte: coplects, exp listing She Iaburiet geisss,
wera nocetive, Altre. h aoy ef cor trevelare Ue gumwr ran ints tis sree
Soviets Wis after tina, nos © Vaso four ual coty op bofaree

2 tmeleowres:
4. 1 Rctes a
B. *valections ARTS FM PTT

YW Comber 1957
ite tyibostaay Lee Paehe te Caw

2 e Sota eZ oncaaed - YR
Be ST

avec, 8 - Ss
t

eRe ARMED SALI a

Fe Oe ee
