# 104-10006-10267

## Page 1

1104-10006-10267

SECRET

FROM,®

(Roquerica name) O

A. W. BRASKO

BRANCH

SE/dI/R

TO

TUBE

ROOM

Se 39

ROOM

DATE

BADGE NO.

BH 705

EXTENSION

7135

INITIALS

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO.

11 HAR 64

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

RID/ INDEX

DT- 5

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT - 6

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS

GT - 7

RID/201

DW - 6

BLAMIS

GT• 6

RID/ INDEX

DT - 5

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

SURNAME

GIVEN NAMES

LARIONIVA - SEMENOVA, Lyudmila

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA. ALIASES

OTHER IDENTHEY ING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership,

affiliat.

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CITIZENSHIP

USSR

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

RESIDENCE

Lemmgrad, USSK

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALI. CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green)

the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b)

corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity

symbol oo when

card in-

cludes

all facts

document.

contained in the

201 CONSOLIDALION

Return this form with the card repro-

aperture cards and the dresner a a zen o,

the subject exists.

(a) [] Consolidate into

201-

(b) [ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (TS any)

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD,

and

those that meet

indexing criteria in OSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional

"In-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

SISSTENZEM

YES

- NO

Ві кеР

TRID

DESK

Note 2. Information concerning foreigr

public personalities (except mili.

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

LARIONOVA, Svetlana

Leningrad

1958

Source, Span seamn fell In love with Soviet girl,

Atery/Etery GRUSDEVA who in sumer 1958 serving as host-

des Interklub Leningrad Source vialted Leningrad Oct 1958

again and this time Atery took him on tio occasions to

apt of a girl friend, Svetlana LARIONOVATA (sic) Svetlane

lived with parents Nabereshneye Robespera, 32, kv 2k.

Svetlana showed source photo of a German boyfriend. Source

thinks Svetlane spoke some German and a few words of Fren

ch. (OSMA 10816, 29 April 1960, 201-253133.

NOTEs: For further info,or if additional info comes In,

please consult SR/2-Louise Lyon.

---

