# 104-10066-10000

## Page 1

104-10066-10000

→ UNCLASSIFIED •

SUBJEGE: (Optional)

FROM:

EA/DDO

TO: (Oficer designation, reom number, and

building)

2.

3:

SA/DO/0

SHEP

CON'

NTIAL

DNLY

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Frederick Randall's Interrots inker chis

Select Committee

Holes of House

NO.

9203

DATE

DD/0 78-2006/1

28 March 1978

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each comment to shom from

whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

The DDO agrees that Randall

has a valid gripe.

Would

you please find out from oLC

how his name was provided to

the House

Committee without

any coordination with this

Directorate. It does seem

a bit of a high-handed way

to deal with our officers.

Ken Knaus

CC:

DDO Reg

EA/ DDO.

MOB

SNSP - Pes ches

10

plusan cinalued

naus in deane:

Thandis

Dam g.

1.20-

13.

14.

15.

FORM

362

610 USEDRRONSUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

06493

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

- 506:

27 March 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information Management Staff (U)

FROM:

Frederick C. Randall (C)

Chief,

IMS Privacy and Information

Action

Group

1.

(U) On 24 March 1978, I was interrogated

for one and one-half hours by Mr. Harold Leap and

Mr. Dan Hardway, staff members of the House Select

nor ot

Committee on Assassinations.

I answered all questions

truthfully.

Immediately

prior to being introduced

to the HSCA staff members, I was shown a copy of

the attached letter to the Committee giving permission

for me to be questioned, and a copy of the

attached

letter from the DDCI which discusses security

procedures. I asked for and received copies of the

two documents. Prior to the 24 March interrogation,

I was told by SA/DO/0 that my personnel files had

been made available to the Committee.

z.

(U) After being asked questions regarding

my ClA career, it became apparent that the staff

members were trying to establish that personne

assigned to the

Jin the early 1960's

had knowledge of an alleged CIA connection

to Lee

Harvey Oswald.

I was asked when I first heard of

the assassination of President Kennedy, when I first

heard of Lee Harvey Oswald, etc. I was asked to supply

many details of the organization, personnel, and

operation of thel

during the period of

my tour there -- from 1961 through 1965.

3. (U) In the context of my previous assign-

ment to the former Domestic Operations Division

beginning in 1965, I was asked twice in a most

forcible fashion whether. I knew Howard Hunt, to which

CONFIDENTIAL

2. IMPDET CL BY 012170

06498

---

## Page 3

14-000.00

• 0.

I answered (twice) in the negative. The interrogators

also asked if I was employed in the section of the

Domestic Operations Division which handled covert

action

activities targetted against the United States.

I replied that CIA does not run CA operations against

U.S. targets.

4.

(U) Although I had heard a rumor that the

interrogation was

finance clerk assigned to the l

based on allegations by a

• former

the staff

members would not provide me with any information

regarding the purpose of their investigation or of

their lead.

The New York Times article of 27 March

1978,

attached, reports the Wilcott allegations

together with the information that the lead came from

Philip Agee, and that Wilcott was represented at a

committee hearing by Agee's attorney.

5. (U) Although CIA has been an easy mark for

anyone looking for a cheap headline during the past

three years, my reaction to this situation is that

the rights of many Americans, including current and

former employees of CIA, are

being violated by the

procedures of this investigation.

I can easily draw

a conclusion from the Times article that the HSCA is

unwittingly performing destruction work conceived by

I also wonder how any investi-

gation can be based on such flimsy evidence. † resent

having my personnel file reviewed by the HSCA without

my permission."

Finally, 1 do not like being shown

an unclassified letter concerning me (I am under

cover), which had already been sent to the Congress

without my knowledge.

6. (C) I have asked that any notes made by

Mr. Leap and Mr. Hardway that are taken from the CIA

Headquarters building use my alias, Frederick

Reynolds. I hope that this request is carried out.

budwich S Kandall

Frederick C.

Randall

(C).

Attachments:

a. Undated letter to HSCA

b. Letter to HSCA dated 23 March 78

C.

Clipping from the New York Times

dated 27 March 78

- 2=

CONFIDENTIAL

---

