104-10404-10445)

SECREY/RYBAY
,
WH/COG 67-194

MEMORANDUM FOR: ADDP
“. C/CI/R & A (ir. Rocea)

SUBJECT : Garrison and The Kennedy Assassination

REFER

: CI/R & A Memorandum Dated 26 April 1967

1, In response to reference memorandum, WH/Cuban Operations
Group las endeavored to provide all available information on
individuals and organizations requested in paragraphs 5, 6 and
7 of veierenc Attachment 1 contains background information.
and biographic data on individuals obtained from WH/COG and
OMWAVE files. Attachment 2 summarizes the background infor
tion and Agency association with the organizations listed in
paragraph 5 of reference.

2. WH/COG will continue to review all material that may
contain information pertinent to this subject and will forward
such information to CI/R & A on a priority basis.

AUC7WH7COG

Attachment 1
Bio data on individuals

Attachment 2 2
Background summary of FRD, DRE, INCA



¢ (
Attachment 1

,
Sergio Vicente ARCACHA Smith (Znclosure 2 of reference menorandwn)

DPOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba

“4. traces on ARCACHA do not reflect the date he first
arrived in the U.S. However, he became the FRENTE REVOLU-
CONARIO DEWOCRATICO (FRD) delegate in New Orleans prior
to the Bay of Pigs invasion and continued in that position
until the FRD ceased to function, The FRD wus the predecessor
of the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, and was organized and
supported by the Agency. The organization was used as a
front for recruitment of Brigade 2506 for the invasion.
During this period ARCACHA reported to the FRD headquarters
in Miami through a post office box in Coral Gables, and

. veportediy maintained extensive relations with the New

Orleans FBI and Immigration offices. Two of his regular
FBI contacts were a Mr. De Bruce and the deceased Guy
Banister.

2, ARCACHA was also one of the promoters of the
FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA, INC (FDC) which was incorporated
in New Orleans on 6 January 1961, This organization was

ostensibly. created by several New Orleans business and
political figures, including the deceased 7 _¥BI agent,
Guy Banister, to collect money to aid Cubans in their

fight against Communism. According to the articles of
incorporation, these donations would also be used to support
the FRD and the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,
less a percentage to be retained by the FDC. An investi-
gation conducted by a reliable Miami Station asset concluded
that the FDC was organized strictly for the personal gain

of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of
ANCACHA, The investigation produced no evidence that any
individual donations were ever solicited or received and
recommended that the funds of the Stevedores Union and the
books of the New,Srleans Exporters Company be investigated
for evidence of personal gain and possible evidence of
federal tax evasion, since both the president of the New
Orleans Exporters Company, Gerard F, Tuiague, and the Chiey
of New Orleans Stevedores Union, Alfred Chittenden, were
officials of the FDC, Approximately one month after the

FDC was created, strong criticism from some prominent Cubans
put the organization out of business.

3. Information in an immigration card reflects that
ARCACHA travelled to Caracas, Venezuela at an unspecified
date, Wis address in Venezuela was HOTEL TIUNA, Cavacas,
and his US address was listed as 4523 Duplesses Street,
New Orleans. Passport No. 00433.



SEGLE!
( - we acd
4. Bresground information on the FDC and ARCACH..'s
connection with the organization was forwarded to the bY

in CSCI-3/764
the above sum
13 January 1961; DBF-91759, 11 October 1961; DBF-92355, 18
October 1961; CSCI-316/-3737-65; and UFGA-929, 22 February
1961. .

414, dated 30 March 1961. Qthey sources of

oy
&

ry of information on ARCACHA are; DBF-G6955,



Carlos BRINGUER (Enclosure 6 of reference memorandun)

Carlos BRINGUER is a brother of Juan Felipe BRINGUER
Esposito, a former member of Brigade 2506 ’who was captured
during the invasion, The personal history statement in
Juan BRINGUER'’s 201 file states his brother Carlos, a lawyer
in Cuba, was 26 years old at the-time of Juan's recruitment
in 1960.



13-00000

One:

(

Edward S. BUYLER (Paragraph 7 (A) of refexence memorandum)
,

In Janusry 1965 Subject's organization (INCA), sponsored
the New Oviesns appearance of Juanita CASTRO shortly af
her arvival the US. INCA had a particular interest in

Mi nO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contain—
ing Miss CASINO's declarations when she was surfaced in
Mexico. (| } who is Miss CASTRO's business manager,
handled tne—pranning and arrangements for the New Orleans

visit with xy . The only subsequent contaci
between and Edward BUTLER occurred when
BUTLER w: ently in Miami promoting the INCA fim on

"CASTRO-HITLER in HAVANA", See Attachment 2 for a summary
of the INCA organization.



€ (
Albert FOWLER (Paragraph 7(B) of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 15 July. 1929, New Orleans, Louisiana
1. Subject is Alberto Casimir FOWLER Perillait, a
member of Brigade 2506 who was captured duiing the invasion

and returned to the US in the December 1962 prisoner
exchange.

2, YOWLER apparently returned to Cuba with his parents
during his early life and returned to the US to attend
schal in his late teens. -He attended the Lenox School,
Lenox, Massachusetts, 1948-49; Louisiuna Stave University
1949-51, After his graduation from LSU he »
and married Margarita Paulette Van der SCHUE)

EN, born 13

“August 1933, Brussels, Belgum, FOWLER was President of

the North American Sugar Company, Havana, from 1951 until
he returned to the US in November 1960 and enlisted in

* Brigade 2506.. At the time of his enlistment he gave Mark

FOSTER, Cuban Refugee Center White House Representative,
and former US Ambassador William D, PAULEY, as references.
Following his release from prison FOWLER worked for the
BRAHMS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, Palm Beach, Florida, where his
father resides, and for BROOKS TRAVEL SERVICES, W. Palm
Beach, Florida, until at least late 1964. He apparently
lost his US citizenship during his years of residence in
Cuba and immigration records indicate he applied for advance
parole status in November 1964 while he was still employed
in W. Pain Beach, He apparently returned to Louisiana
sonetime after that date, FOWLER's mother lives in Coving-
ton, Louisiana, and he has a sister who is married to Fort
PIPES, Jr., member of a prominent Now Orleans family.

turned to Cuba



SECRET  ¢

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Lawrence J, LABORDE, 201-294688

1. | On ll May 1967 the headquarters office of the Domestic
Contacts Service telephoned the C/CI/R&A and said that Subject had
telephoned the New Orleans office of the DCS that day. Subject said that
he was an ex-CIA employee, that he feared that D.A, Jim GARRISON
would subpoena him, that he was willing to leave the U.S, to avoid a
subpoena, and that he wanted the office to tell him what to do.

2. A review of Subject's file has led to the hypothesis that this
visit may have been a provocation, probably engineered by GARRISON
in an attempt to trap CIA into advising Subject to leave Louisiana,

Had such advice been given, GARRISON would have been able to buttress
his charge that CIA is attempting to obstruct the couxse of justice in
New Orleans.

3, - The Miami Station requested a provisional covert security
approval for Subject.on 14 March 1961, The request was granted on
24 March 1961, (A PCSA approves contact for spotting and assessing
only,) However, a 31 March 1961 cable from Miami requested per=
mission to increase Subject's salary to $700 a month and to pay him
bonuses,

4, A Headquarters dispatch of 23 March 1962 warned Miami
that Subject was indiscreet, drank too much, and had an unsavoury
reputation, On 20 April 1962 Miami cancelled the request for an
approval, on the grounds that Subject was a poor security risk,
Subject had no later relationship with the Agency. Subject was bitter
about his CIA contacts when terminated and made reckless threats,

5. An FBI report of 23 May 1962 said Subject had contacted
representatives of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC, Agency-created
and supported) in New Orleans, his home town; had offered his services;
and had said he was running a boat out of Key West, smuggling Cubans
and guns with the knowledge of CIA,

SECRET



13-00000

( SECRET  ¢

6. A Miami report of June 1962 said that Subject was employed
1947-1949 in Mexico by the U.S, Department of Agriculture but was
fired for excessive drinking, discharging unauthorized firearms, and
non-support of dependent children,

7, The New Orleans States~Item of 28 July 1962 named Subject
as the source of bitterly anti-CIA remarks in a story which praises
LABORDE as a "good family man, completely reliable", and quotes a
Cuban refugee leader as saying that CIA and FBI agents termed Subject
a man of integrity. An anti-CIA article in the Denver Post of 3 June 1962
also appears to be based on statements from LABORDE,

8. FBI reporting of August 1962 stated that LABORDE had duped
certain persons into buying a schooner, the Elsic Reichart, by saying
that he and a crew would operate it for Cuban operations which the
U.S, Government could not openly acknowledge but for which it would

pay handsomely,

2

SECRET



(

Carlos QUIROGA (Paragraph 7(C) of reference memorandum)
,

Subject is possibly identifiable with, Carlos QUIROGA,
a former student at Lowsiana Stute University who was a
candidate for the Agency Student Recruitment Program, This
involved recruitment of Cuban students in the US who would
return to Cuba as agents in place, JMWAVE traces reflect
an individual of the same name was an electrical engineer,
vesiding at 3134 Derby Place, New Orleans, in December 1964,
Subject reportedly had homosexual tendencies, low morals,
and until the middle of 1961 was an ardent CASTRO supporter
and made anti-US statements. There is no indication that a
Carlos QUIROGA was ever employed by the Agency in any
capacity, *



aa ae

Julian BUZNEDO (Enclosure 8 of reference memorandum)

DPOB: “16 February 1940, Havana, Cuba

Subject is apparently identifiable with Julian BUZNEDO
Castellanos, who arrived in the US on 10 November 1960 and
enlisted in Brigade 2506. He was a civilian pilot in Cuba
and served on the, invasion craft BARBARA J. BUZNEDO was
captured and released in the prisoner exchange. (‘There is no
indication he was ever employed by the Agency, other than

his participation’ in the invasion.

e



(

Gordon Duane NOVEL (Enclosure LO of xeferouce memorandum)

,

There is no record of Subject ju WH/Cuban Operation
Group files or JMVAVE files. JMWAVE cited the article
on NOVEL which appeared in the MIAMI HURALD on 26 April
1967, which is available in CI/t & A, aud is in the process
of conducting an exh ive search for traces on the cover
organizations NOVEL claimed to operate for the Agency in
New Orleans. a

Rw



8 ,

Miguel Silva TORRES (Enclosure 23 of yeference memorandua)
(also traced under Miguel SILVA Torres)

Yhere is no record of Subject under either. name in WH/COG
or JMWAVE files.

N



( oe 4
DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL (DRE)
(STUDENT REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORATE)

1. ‘fhe DRE was conceived, created and gunded by the
Agency in September 1960 and terminated in December 1966,
It was an outgrowth of the activist student group in Cuba
which fought against BATISTA and later against CASTRO,
Many of the leaders came into exile around September 1960
and were subsequently trained and infiltrated into Cuba
by the Agency in late 1960 where they operated by obtain-
ing intelligence setting up action teams, etc., up through
the Bay of Pigs invasion. , While the DRE was initially set
up as a psych warfare outfit, the organization was given a
large amount of paramilitary aid in-funds and material,
Aftey the Bay of Pigs, the DRE engaged in independent
military actions, which declined at Agency dixection and
because of a reduction in funds from late 1962 until ter-
uination of ‘the group. Members were used through 1966 as

‘political action agents, for publishing propaganda which

was sent throughout the Hemisphere, attending international
student meetings at Agency direction, and producing radio
programs and special propaganda campaigns.

2, After the cutback in military operations, many
of the best DRE members relocated in other areas, At
present there are delegations in most Latin American coun-
tries which have maintained some contact with various
Agency stations over the years although the DRE is no
longer very active. During the organization's 6 year
period of active existence DRE personnel were in contact
with several JMWAVE staffers and outside contract agents.
However, from Jantary 1965 through December 1966, contact
with DRE personnel was limited to two agents, Juan Manuel
SALVAT, the current ‘DRE Secretary General who is now
operating a bookstore in Miami, Florida, and Fernando
GARCIA Chacon who was relocated in El Salvador,

2
&



13-00000

“CASIRO's appearance in New Orleans. At that tineCan =?

RECAS, INC.

INCA is an anti+sComunist propaganda organization
with dyuarters in New Orl ns, that diss: wim English
and foreign language propaganda tapes and ‘films on a world
wide basis, conducts public forums of an extremist

political nature, ete. The organizational 1s and funds
appayently cone from wealthy New Orleans figures including
Dr. Aiton OCHSNER, of the OCHSNER CLINIC, and Willard
ROBERISON. In recent years funds have been supplied by the
HICK SAVETY RAZOR COMPANY. An INCA letterhead listing ail
the officers and officials has been requested from dMWAVE,
which has had some, casual correspondence with the organiza-,
tion concerning Miss Juanita CASTRO,

2. There is no indication of any Agency relationship
with INCA prior to January 1965 when INCA sponsored Miss

)who functioned as Miss CASTRO's business manager
involved with INCA officials in planning the New Orleans
visit where Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dinne.
sponsored by INCA. The dinner, which was attended by civic
ieaders and representatives of all news media, took place
shortly after Miss CASTRO's defection and there
considerable interest in her appearance. INCA was particularly
interested since it had distributed hundreds of inglish

and Spanish language tapes containing her statements when

she was surfaced in Mexico. In October 1966 {NCA again
yequested that Miss CASTRO appear as a guest speaker in

major Amexican cities in connection with
the INCA motion picture production "HYTL:
Following various reviews of the film, JNWAVE decided the
film would probably become controversial and it would be
inadvisable to permit Miss CASTRO to accept the invitation.
Because of INCA's extremist political orientation, JMWAVE

has wanted to d any nore involverient between iiss CASTRO
and INCA and — in his capacity as business
manager, has WANT o preven - Thove has been only

one casual contac? between ¢ jand Edward TLER,
Executive Vice-Président o INCA, Since Miss CASTRO's 1965
New Orleans trip, This took place recently when BUTLER was
in the area promoting the "HITLER IN HAVANA" film.

3. According to JMVAVE, INCA officials have never

ed in any way that they are aware of Agency control

on of Miss CASTRO or her business agent, and there
is no indication that INCA officials have had any official
contact with Agency officers,



FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (RD)
(CUBAN iOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY FRON1)

1. The PRD was created with Agency assistance,
guidance and financial support in May 1960 and consisted
of several anti-CASTRO groups. The FRD was formed as a
political action, propaganda and military unit. Initial
actions consisted of extensive rddio and printed propaga:
demonstrations, and trips throughout the Hemisphere to ga
support for the fight against CASTRO, ‘The ¥RD also functioned
as the front organization for recruiting the members of
the Bay of Pigs invasion force and carried out a massive
program of social assistance to Brigade 2506 members in
training camps and their families. Although the FRD head- '
quarters were based in Miami, delegates were assigned to
other areas wiich included New Orleans, Louisiana, Tampa,
Florida, and Mexico City, to gather intelligence and

coordinate Cuban refugee activities.

2, In late 1960 or carly 1961 the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY
COUNCIL (CRC).was formed to coordinate and direct FRD
activities and this group was headed by Agency and White
House sponsored Dr. Jose MIRO Cardond, assisted by Manuel
ANYTIME and Dr, Antonio VARONA. Both the FRD and the CRC
continued to function until October 1961 when theD was
completely absorbed by the CRC in order to avoid the confusion
resul from duplication of personnel, activities and
funding. -The CRC also had direct access to President
Kennedy and top Dhite House aides, Because of the magnitude
of the RD and CRC operations and the Agency participation
in the activities and funding of the groups, a large number
of JNWAVE and Headquarters were directly involved with both
FRD and CRC personnel,

