104-10147-10129

a

a
ne cg

LA/COG/ 258-77

7 i 3 NOV w77’
GRANDLN FOR: Gifice of the Legislative Counsel
NIA =r SAZADDO,
FROM : Raymond A. Warren

“Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT : “Allegation by a-Senior Cuban Diplomat

Concerning thé Role of Cuban Exiles in
the Assassination of President Kennedy

1.. According to'a fairly reliable source, a’ senior
Cuban diplomat stationed abroad made certain charges in
late. September 1977 concerning the alleged role of Cuban
exiles in the assassination of President. John F. Kennedy.
This diplomat made these allegations to his colleagues
in the course of an official meeting in his embassy. The
diplomat said, among other things, that Cuban exiles

such_as former Cuban Air Force officer D i a z Lan (fnu)

and others had been involved in the assassination of
President Kennedy. The diplomat referred to the assas-
sination in the context of a security lecture in which

he claimed that counter-revolutionary. activities by Cuban
exiles have increased in recent months. He said that
recent information had. arrived implicating D i az in the
Kennedy ‘assassination. The diplomat did not mention any
other: Cuban exiles by name or provide any further details.
He did not. identify the source of his information, although
cur source nad the impression that the dipicust's atlega-
tions were based on a recent cable from the Cuban Ministry
of Foreign Affairs.

2. This division has no other factual information
concerning the diplomat's allegations. We believe that
the basis for the diplomat's statement was, probably, an
article which appeared in the New York "Daily News" on
20 September 1977. This article quoted Meritza
Lorenz as saying that she, Orlando Bos ch, Frank
Sturgis, Pedro DP i a2 Lanz, two unnamed Cuban

caiie biothers and Lee Harvey O Ss woa ldo toned an

. WARMING MOLTCE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS [hVCLVED

ft “SECRET E2, IMPDET
CL BY: 912034


oe + ‘
aoe :

assassination squad which went to Dallas to assassinate

President Xennedy.: We know of .no information in our

files to substantiate that allegation,

: '

_ 3. Diaz ‘is 4 former chief of the Cuban Rebel : ”
Air Force. |e is not nor is there any record that he a
has ever been an Agency asset, although he could have }
been debriefed by us after he left Cuba. 8

4, There have been various press articles in the
past alleging that. Lorenz was a CIA agent. She
is not ah agent or employee of ‘this Agency nor is there

_ any information indicating that she ever was an agent al
or employee of this Agency. Sree

5. The above information may be passed in part or
in its entirety to the House Select Committee on Assas-
sinations,. The FBI has already been informed of the
significant details in this matter,

ds} George V. Lauder
fe Raymond A. Warren
ii

DDO/LA/GOG/crOs/ ds row {1 November 1977, X9194) j

.Distribution:

Orig §&.1 - Addressee

: 1 - LA/COG/Chrono
- C/LAD
Originator
SA/ADDO (Benson Grayson)
“IG Staff (Scott Breckinridge i ~
Hold au

ft et cans)

Monte ces Soap sf

; aoe ; ~ SECRET
