# 104-10196-10068

## Page 1

104-10196-10068

1911181

2247271

Mandol Field Occide

18 Parch 1959

durJier

licagunicin

(A)

T/4:3 0 280 8029

fercisnce to tile in krogurtroo lotted do accicument.in

Title CUDIC RiNG

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 9-2-98 BY 5668 3LD KSK

(JFK)

nu roll as oilier incunnuton of epidiot astoret, thic cubitance

or which to ret forth incult mecueding fragragic.

noted that.nt.no tirald...or the nor and aboard roltcit

any of this inforcion or an inpurien do thisdrolor aging

theod treldents in casual condentson curtug tetsure pertois oud

cureute with the ucente to and rio places po entertatment ete.

In mont carco novoragero, muchnes and TV suitians promied tho

cuLJicr to nike colenta reluctio. in cloco mittoris Faloing 1s

a cummilention of this Inconlon:

colloniue cronto:

Locall, herica el Miliana.

LONGS LEAVES

riunity it ta

Dia nico revened tub in his pervlonit fon in the Unlted

statro ville euroute to Culn, Venéin a and oiled linin Arican

countles. No lou'st one tus du macher during hia corvice ulch the

1i0 windled in vorted on Gallon paracets for the confes Unton

In guactedly all of tir cumberen of kurope; inari, de las nevor

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR":

FE)RASE OF THIS DOCUMENTI

ACTORRO

BInO

REVIEWED BY FBWIFK TASK FOROE

9/6/98 dat

O RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

---

## Page 2

(N)

Tito los

'a 1912.

risin: in bite nas.

In the latter rust of the chalue on this rora date,

70 rebrany jool, to dunce rusted that lite face sas a neiber

or the Camilos Contrnt Contine, ew of the firt's revers of

the conniet romey, ad the to ind cront terpset

Tor lisa racher

sh roulder and

dente Wicicy Plant

It woe rectus to biller declutes

that ha

ordtelale cia in -emisct

Into ot the oge of gento su ser aled or concei

The SUranCE

uno rtven tienumnt for too cauren in a rpocial hoirilot silch 1o

Toented in the hille obelds of tan ctor reso and surlie hip

tonie in thie houplial cho-ridly

see fred vich lite

had fire roas living quartere bertoo the coon in witch hts cither

conflueel.

Thie molvileo, he mid, a only carn to de capscinly

ricinicht Viro of the Corrict Turer

ouợ of the top non 18 the Cornet Taroy.

ISTIANK ACTVITY

(a) To cunner reseed ant ta Lolo, t the rec of 16, ho tua

a Paval Careta

He uno cilled into the rorvice lion calclug Cron

that to our caulvalens or a le cchool. lin bag enten fart in the

stil Corrun, claired he ite loneled, and because of llo bracey he

man ninded the rovice Oner lachl una die piler dr culin. tie aurouse

clated chia no unusun for a tercon on hiu odo nud colmail him cicat

1:0nộcto.

At the chal'or the mo ho harl no moio docto for millenty l1fo

rillouch his cuperiora tric do boop him in the milling Inaccad, lic

senò for sour genro to the Jiiitute of Porclen In114lons out Icornca.

Uno remandiles, de min coge do iri ani told him

nore ale bolne marred do tolo this motionler. Job indeis tinied cut

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

No entired Chol Chore mro leo

IN 92222 1

the cucning tail,

(o). Du 2o domes prol do cites queen do told fore

lie noted thut the 24

20460080 100 0n 00

intolo In the livin rosa hid a icture

Ng Into 05460:

ne-lic ent

dom họ hit the table vlil we thut and intel,

"I in•l thint I cold

live elepend atara".

volcal lifes "hous",

Cecilor valeil legy control Ovir the

1k caln át

Iron ca enato theo he sona lave tor de lilo unlicion themes die

ho in hat could request

kindlin of virag.

This

my thou corperore le vent m to

cinde that if ting arally

mited to

olsion Quinto, to could have Tiron:

done on the car of the norent

nob worth mutile, they doctant das this monu poo sunity to choa

the scricon State Reputrit fire cry Did not wind relearing Individ-

unla ir they alied for colonie through the mpropilate claniels.

Tilor 10 this mplication tor mleare dr enD, co UnwaCT dinted

that sinco he mis of no archeno dilrom co them mud thera mio

nothing in lisacow that they euna me hi foi do plaeg him inco, thes

to a raciony canne on 2ad/on Do the lege Cout more Lenining In the

ecurteal and clocente simla mail rent in hio deuconint Into

vie sunilee each sigie dab teste duce de chou clot, torore conding

DatALi do land, tint a viy cinode thine hupixied.

lo namintione for his anime do findle it a o clork In the arternoon.

secue cochina do c0 10 the mint mare 1110 san rieglue to coe 11° ha

cuild locure him.

STORET

-3

---

## Page 4

S1.801

(A)

Ga2 C Su,1

so in to roon, die clerk up

mocceded to Chips list.

11:0

they broke theo the root mit

6°t:18.

ni lito iriols sinalisi.

Roving

"itil

the

1'59

* (9)

IT•E

Roch"

l daling sALD to tie munirin i

Illy

side 108:5

civea 11o0;

trinfurtons and afor a mittl

then wes erroth.

Milog 1.h0

i retention the fo)lorine w

clated es the socioi tnicated

alise had Owed not bec coum for

criticly is trice minuten, his tonta

live lech dead. It in here thint th

sento sanded the thile mid

caid lt the travel ancie lod not bi.

tito

Tid insend

contacted the IGD office this

Licy Hilo

rich to Bion thốt do not

(ct any rigonce fic, rople v

Limnel crant to forget

shout life, and on the follate de lie the escals vould hire

suit one of thic ich ecenco to duck in Don,

ne open this he scula

Jave bech found desile

3015, De. 8006 01 20 14969,

ral in dielertne of

being noting, nud no the car cine icly tic

ricterns of th United

in vate Lint after OSArD sac cout to linch li ip tirin that he lt

It uns becauce

of her poor backgroind chine cle 1ao cluen perlitos to sury OSID

and rctim to the Unlica Siren no lin vice.

The Cuber then vont on to deserthe vut toon sace en the day

that Prectent rumor no cercentreolo do ento dect Late do actinly.

on Saturiny

in Roscov,

und Inpencil to have the ridio cil, wren In henril big die reiciraid of

the Undica Stitco hul been untimied.

the sadio informed lilin cat cng ericin lag Ing DullD, Lite mrouncerent,

is ridd, deally stunied hirl.

Tubalately vion his milval he comera for die Dates cale. Mirin lo

Send this illa hoterleted it and count thus OSAlD heed not leci died

öi even napronched for uce lychic Mulen Intollle.rcc.

He Lut 181 0

20n6 alotonee call to the chlor of tha Mill Gocülon In Minch did Incitied

recall, they had not Lage dig we de ritals.

Ju:t jus" tile the?, 11g

SECHET

---

## Page 5

¿CONa !

2re de .c onl

Ure runanee io cat alf the 2o?

Giloa matlible ca ceira aud piefue

• Mừal 10 b0

runtosd ti:

Maowlatnle of the cacontes Iorg.

Teo amusch then itescadd dis aa fenit in Mtick to Mifntos Diejure

 fuernty

os his site o noweeani

Jneonest his thy elgtchin toenty.

wlnates a tonacone teula corire iy clad niitin plane to pies

ap tho mubray fon nndutr do "ccot

ni cald this ac acceinlicied,:

cu tichtn que none do loco esiaalue o decsled cerote e OSlATD's

coulriiy in nissia.

mate, a ciuiod tig coniuct, to thestoiy of

QAr.D In Minnio:

C. 12 ARICТО:1

(r) The quuten airo Iidaied thic lic dna noi Jain ths Cofsintot

Pardy ui Lhe 1no:rt Sars oc, 241 48 d11

thtu ous de marces to hli

richor, to'nt the thro iG aacrsresnur bra fand neled iia (CViJECE

virsdlies he tould do his ose nars turor pefore he dicie Mut is hou

the sunJuer stated he Jolnea.

Cornintot Tirts

Poula not lave toon a neuer so

ochorwiuc, he prouahty

MUPICEITS AID UIVANGNESES

The nurgner mtuded due thy liB nuc mule to dinerenilato

lotrion Prortcono tho r asniat to liccou oud cic actunlly the"

stite Degariugnt fxro,

reahee 1etye en sicellloice tiorclound,

ly, thie snck that dhe iielliaces izve of peonlo do noe nacorlato viéhi

tie iccian cirlo, tiac as dns sutt ics do out witk thea ntoue, mercas

iho firte Minartacnt Sie s111.

nero necior of n woith or tuo,

tley Imuitibly ane eblo to ciz eridene dat bia tnteltigice tures

liavo tcon maturlritine.

Tis fe wrunlay defceted crrouch clase crca-.

imiclon of the Indivtiuat'a teraes aud "ed cicetss

MIGSTA U-1 ATRCMER.

(ni) On 25 iabire Wee dactre to cvonlus Marl, a Mircieulon vos

nad rgmnting the arergù atamhri cmcieco notod ln sha

merapyuas and on

IV 1a the Unttod Strter.

Tue TeEJiCr connenica cind lo hao a lot of

Prlionor uio are lesò piluis nnl ziu aro nou enaiced in tectlng vhat ho

Mccared to no 1 U-l ijjo di mlaraure cint 1a- furico Shan any other

•irceoie tn tho von'lel.

is mdart thit iree frlonis are higils jaid

iut they lire voly doocrros 1a

SECRET

1.

---

## Page 6

(A)

mier corine thin

roa), deccelling hl8,an 8 8999

8111-1

sullo am agrearch

aud study, one no tron she cornare crontathers odu ong of tic

sirit slipulidero in ricála..

aled ot the que of Di.

le alco alated tat afica lie ornin of hlo

inther, a teorial sag tutte in blo arg cince lo cas contucred

avery canalo diracini or the curarne chirune turistre

Mert:

hocker and direergne

ches alluent to thio curcuoi in nonos si his falir

Indewed tine elce io o furiodont lei cura dreplete am-dom

ou hi: canily bael grojil,

ductulius the of his crancachr and his

to do ;vith hin bolic cule-to cot: 30g2ir

-non na tost ob hadid in dio, ton orcintattion.

FGD: THerSURa Cil FiTULY

K3):

0u 2% Fouvery. 199, dustig linch, the CurAT chased this he

Torcala te ino not vcity

vorited nbout her occause Chic: 10 mett-off

thơco thore lo hợc rich thy con dổ to her.

Ho sver, hat concerng

hila nost lo the lact Mint ter

lare lady charter to risy ca thie

egmathies of hle tho chitaren ma lifa cire.

The sarest stated thiat

ho is anticirating tuto; ho.cyou, he did not tand unt bey reild

that in duc tim ho moy le ile io set his rumtly ci of iuncia.

This

home he cald tuo civen to lin by the chited or shahl tolon.

WHLOY. OF CONGR: 28. 101082986996

(x). Oil 25 Febieny 10C! düne n'Ichtrecing Son of lachleston

by vehtele, an vo masca the libang of Congrano, te Lutees nointed

to the building and cinted thet

"ve luve sono torino in thoie"

Social Mcut Stanley C. ICi rid, "note so'"

rntrird,

"'KGB".

ind the conter

He contimid lg cruine Che this 1a5 a

4oel place

to placa pcuple locauce they could illy Icari ly dunt riching

vat reicürci ins balne done

lo the atraiy de Coupess by tivo nilstary

SEGRET

:66-

---

## Page 7

divi

and tierely cet an foca no do art the all stody so pronning In ele

..¿ or marionho and thirdo or clare mine.

The since alio nartred

sit the ropenobfliay fo coltirs incation aumpelcloudly tim

* A silenn Airisico

2:1):0.5

In foreton corle: cho miloy Exilecions proothel,

nichth the

confires. of lik: 103.

lic

diated that the way they co

culor the enlaser at crucial tors quon the night. Toy could tIrie

unlie a close survey und a moiorarl di tic aica in tutch the emunary

loepo ito closinted racerliu, then tiry would rubésuently enter this

arca mid open up. the cares.

hen ho to noled how this vas doic he

stated, "oh, corsinations to satus his not hard to reguts". He raid

the the toportunt and stariant rard of this selirio to tiling thie

Where contes it and then plactig to cretly as it

SEMES

---

