# 104-10169-10065

## Page 1

104-10169-10065

о газосом.

POUTING AND RECORD SUEST

PRIOR TO FUNG

1. Fill in Sect 2. oa back. Detach back flap and

orward 10 RID

Desuoy front cover

sheel unless it records

signiticant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservalon

FROM:

RIDI AN

TO ACTION BRANCH

uReat to LID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN BECTION 1. CN BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

₴.

TO

HEAA /E

C/.

ANE

ROOM

NO.

6046

DATE

RECEIVED

COPY PORITIED EY

WIfe 179990

12 g

B.

18.

104.

10.

17,

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TRACE

ARQUEST

ПИСТОЛЬНЫЙ

• 1140

PREVIOUE

TiLa Virt

PILE NUMBER TRAMANY COOTI

701:21141

IMUNY LAYE

# 2. DEC 1965

SECRET

23.

V on

84214

1000.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

.O0E.

PROCESSING 4C/34

TO

Crisisit

NO KNOCKING EE QUED

ONLY QUALIFILD DESE

CAN NUDGE ENDEXENI

FROM

ches of stucion, fire] Hit

3 Cerational/Security: David Graham EcCanna Dufois

ACTION REQUIRED - DEARERS 23

Reference: [iLCig,8523, 3 Movember 1965

As requested In reference, Donald E. WIDEFNTiE discussed Subject dtr

wilbur wright.

Though Mr. iright has not seen Subject for several month, he 1g

certain that he is still in torn. lir. Hright infomed IDRAYHE that Subject

holds a BA from Colombia, served during "orld ilar II in the Philippines as a

First Lloutenant in ar. engileering company which was all colored, and he was

bitter over thie segregation practice.

He comes from New York, and Wright

believes he lived in Harlem. lie did Join the Cormuniat Farty between 1951 and

1954, but has since left it.

His rcason for leaving the Farty 18 not lenown.

He

went to China in 1960, and wale there grew to hate it because of the lack of

acadacio freedon and the restrictions on his rosemento he came to Calro from

Chinde

Currently he very much likes (merican so dida such as Scotch, which he

drinks with restraint,

und cigarettes, euc. Since he has meaninesiro he

has worked for Mili,

the Arab Observer maguzine and since I9s the advertiting

fir of tamilton dright.

he is talkine about rettint married to an unddentitled

Feyptian.

He has been married but is divorced.

His hrabic 1e good and liright

describes hun as bright

He has the capacity to lie easily. and without cori

punction. He is currently not marifestiny much interest in politics. He goes

to Maxin's Restaurant, a local diecothegue, frequently.

We have no additional current information about. Subject other then

that reported in NECA 13627, 27 March 1965.

Ellanch: Refersies

Dv

Distributions

3 - Chief, NE

CAOBO RAMIRENCE TO

CS COPY

MAPATOM #!

AND NUMARR

[uCA711814

GLABRFICATION

BYORET

2201-776141

16: 7; 1968

00 #

201-771141

4/go

---

