r04-10769-10058

UY NBR ERD, AOU LBA DER MSE

v_ RETURN TS CiA
Jackground Use Only
+ Bo Not Reproduce

BELL 15

INFO DOP 2, COP, ADOP/A, DPO-2, Fi/d , WH, BELL S/c

BELL CUTE WAVE 5647 : °

“JMZIP ZRPERUSAL
REF A. BELL 1184
HB. VAVE $593 (Ty yo, eae
le RICARDO RODRIGUEZ RAMIREZ, *HEREUO" OF ESCAMBRAY FANE AND
“FORMER LIEUTENANT OF OSVALDO RAMIREZ, ARRIVED IN WAVE ARE 6 APR,
‘COMPANIED BY WIFE, JUAN CONSUEGRA, VALDES, AND THREE FISHERHEN, 7
@e PRELIMINARY DEBRIEFING OF. “MEREJO” INDICATES THAT HE WAS
“ABLE TO DO VERY LITTLE DURING THE ESCAMBRAY FIGHTING, MOST OF
SHIS TIME BEING SPENT -IN AVOIDING THE MILITIA WHILE TRYING TO
~ RECEIVE AIR DROPS WHICK NEVER MATERIALIZED. MEREJOS TOTAL TIME ‘
AN INSURGENT IN THE ESCAMBRAY FRONT TOTALED ABOUT THREE MONTHS,
HIS AREA OF OPS WAS CONFINED MAINLY TO THE SIERRA DE SANCTI SF:
» AND AROUND THE TOWNS OF SANCTI SPIRITUS AND JATIBONICO.

“WEREJO' WENT TO THE HILLS. IN THE LATTER PART OF DECEMBER
68 ON THE INSTRUCTIONS OF AMDIP/3 WHO AT THIS TIME WAS TRYING *
“TO ORGANIZE AND SUPPLY THE INSURGENTS IN THE ESCANBRAY AREA.
BY 'S JANUARY 61, MEREJO vary tr AND

EERIE SY NICAL SNC DEA PDN er



{OSVALDO RANIREZ WERE ABLE.T0 GATHER A FORCE OF ABOUT FIVE TO
“SIX HUNDRED HEN IN THE SAN ANB}OSIO AREA OF WHICH ONLY ABOUT

_ ONE HUNDRED WERE ARMED. THIS FORCE VAS MOBILIZED ON THE BASIS
{OF INFORMATION FROM AMDIP/3 WHO" SAID THAT THEY WOULD RECEIVE AN
“AIR DROP ON 6 JAN. THE DROP NEVER GAME AND DUB JO THE ACTIVITY
OF THE INSURGENTS IN THE AREA OF THE DZ THE GOC BROUGHT 18 4 FORCE
|: OF ABOUT 3,000 MILITIA IN A PERIOD OF ABOUT FOUR DAYS VHICH

!: FORCED THE REBELS TO DISPERSE. IN MEREJO'S OPINION THIS VAS

| QNE OF THE GREATEST SETBACKS OF THE ENTIRE ESCANBRAY FIGHTING
{AND WAS A MAJOR CAUSE-OF THE FINAL, COLLAPSE OF THE ESCAMBRAY =~
“FRONT. | : Se est

"tae ON & JAN MEREJO AND, OSVALDO RAMIREZ VERE FORCED TO DIVINE
“THEIR DWINDLING FORCES IN ORDER TO-BREAX OUT OF. A. THREATENED
“ENCIRCLEMENT BY THE MILITIALs AFTER. SEPARATING .FROM OSVALDGs
“WEREJO AND HIS MEN WERE CONTINUALLY ON THE RUN FROM 9 JAN UNTIL
“g FEB AT VHICH TIME ME HAD -A SHORT RESPITE TO TAKE THE AIR DROP
oF PARA’1 Ay REF Ae IN ADDITION TO “INEORMATION ABOUT THE DROP
OW REF B MEREJO SAID THEY HEARD THE PLANE AT THE APPOINTED TINE
SUT VERE NOT ABLE TO SEE IT BECAUSE OF THE CLOUDS WHICH’ COVERED
} THE D2 AREA. THE PLANE PASSED CVER Axd NOTHING WAS DROPPED
I

i

ALTHOUGH THE DZ WAS LIGHTED WITH THE PROPER SIGNAL, A GROSS
OF SEVEN LIGHTS, ‘NEREJO" ASSUMED THAT THE PLAN HAD NOT PROPPED.
“AND WOULD COME BACK THE FOLLOVING NIGHT. KOVEVER, NEXT DAY
Me MEARD THAT A LARGE DROP HAD BEEN MADE ON THE TWON OF SANTA
LUCIA SOME 12 KS AVAY FROM THE DZ AND THAT THE MILITIA
"RECOVERED EVERYTHING.

be

18 PROMIBITED.

REPRODUCTION BY oO}

iA ane wrrnnnnee =



L.

$-_ DUE TO THE LARGE AMOUNT OF MATERIAL DROPPED THE GOC

APPARENTLY ASSUMED THAT 1T WAS INTENDED FOR A ALRGE FORCE OF

DASURGENTS AND IMMEDIATELY POURED MILITIA INTO THE AREA TO ,

FERRET THEN OUT. MEREJO HAD TO DISPERESE KIS RENAINING FORCE,
~ ABOUT 208 MEN OF WHICH ONLY 26 VERE ARMED, IN ORDER TO BREAK
OUT OF THE ENCIRCLEMENT. MEREJO WITH ELEVEN MEM TRIED TO MAKE
_.WIS WAY TO CAMAGUAY. ON THE WAY HE’ STOPPED TO GET FOOD AND’
“QLOTRING IN THE HOUSE OF A FRIEND } NEAR
SANCTI SPIRITUS. WHILE THERY VERE THERE THE HOUSE WAS RAIDED
BY THE LOCAL CHIEF OF THE G-2,-BERNARDO ARIAS, AND SEVEN MILITIA WEN. ti
JN THE ENSUING FIGHT MEREJO AND HIS MEN KILLED ARIAS, HIS-BODYs
GUARD AND TWO MILITIA MEN. THE REST OF THE MILITIA HEN RAN
AY AND NEREJO AND HIS GROUP ESCAPED WITH ONLY ONE MAN WOUNDER,
“Gs AFTER KILLING ARIAS MEREJO MADE KIS WAY TO LAS TOSAS

ESTABLISH HIMSELF THERE AND BEGIN,OPERATIONS AGAIN. A. FRIENDLY
FARMER TOLD HIN THAT A sPECTaL AIT ITIA FORCE NUMBERING ABOUT
$eo0 NEN VAS ROAWING LAS TOSAS LOOKING FOR MEREJO PERSONALLY,
WEREJO DECIDED HE MOULD MAVE TO GIVE UP THE FIGHT IN ESCAMBRAY
“SAND LEAVE THE AREA ENTIRELY. HE CONTACTS!
“AN ANDIP/S ORGANIZER IN CAIBAGUAN WITH WHOM HEREJO‘S WIFE WAS oo
HIDING, AND ASKED HIM TO KELP HIM ESCAPE. JpRovroED two
AUTOHOBILES WHICH ENABLED MEREJO, HIS WIFE AND EIGHT OF HIS-WEN*

YO GET TO HAVA WHERE THEY VERE HIDDEN BY THE ANDIP/3 HAVA i
GRGANIZATION WHICH ¥AS-UNDER THE BISECTION OF “>.

: } WEREJO STAYED iN HAVA UNTIL ABCUT 22 MAR UNTIL HE

< REPROOASTION Bx OVERRAN TBST : :
“atenoouction or OFEITHENTTSSGTH OFTTEE be PRoHiBITEO,


was MOVED TO LA ISBELA ON THE NORTH COAST OF LAS VILLAS WHERE
te bane PUT IN THE HANDS OF FISHERMAN dl WERE TO EFFECT HIS
RECEPTION WITH A BOAT FROM PBPRINE. oe :
7. WEREJO AND HIS WIFE STAYED WITH THE FISHERMEN FOR ABOUT
14 DAYS, BEING SHIFTED FROM BOAT TO BOAT, WHILE TRYING TO MAKE
RECEPTIONS WITH BOATS FROM PBPRINE. CONTACT WITH THE BOAT
FROM PBPRIME WAS PREVENTED EACH TIME BY THE PRESENCE OF A GOC
PATROL CRAFT WHICH HUNG AROUND THE RECEPTION AREA AT CaYO
DUTTON. (WAVE COMMENT: MEREJO WAS TO BE EXFILTRATED VIA OPS mit

|
CARROT, TURNIP, RUTABAGA ANDBOWL INE ALL OF WHICH FAILED BECAUSE OF t

“ho RECEPTION.) WEREJO AND THE FISHERMEN BELIEVED THAT THE GOC
PATROL GRAFT WAS AWARE THAT A RECEPTION IN THE DUTTON AREA WAS
£0 TAKE’ PLACE. .

Sh) 8, WHEN THE DUTTON AREA BECAME TOO HOT THEY MOVED TO THE

” QIAVE COMMENT: DISCUSSION OF TBE DIFFICULTIES WITH RECEPTION
“ AT CAYO DUTTON AND ATTEMPTS TO ARRANGE RECEPTION AT JUTIA ARE
REFLECTED IN THE ANDIP/3 W/T TRAFFIC PASSED TO WAVE.)

i o 9. ON 25 MARCH WORD WAS RECEIVED BY COURIER FROM HAVA THAT
| EMDIP/E'S RADIO. IN HAVA HAD BEEN CAPTURED BY THE GOC ALone
WITH THE FILES AND THAT THREE OF THE FISHERMEN'S NAMES KAD BEEN
COMPROMISED. IT WAS DECIDED THAT THE FISHERMEN WOULD HAVE TO
"LEAVE CUBA TO AVOID ARREST. ON 4 APR MEREJO, HIS WIFE AND
-QONSUEGRA LEFT CUBA WITH THE FISHERMEN IN ONE OF THEIR BOATS
ARRIVING IN THE WAVE AREA ON 6 APR.

REPRODUETION BY a iS PROHIBITZO.
. ; 5

bod


rc

13. FAILURE OF THE RECEPTION AT CAYO DUTTON APPRARS TO

BE A DEFINITE INDICATION THAT THE GOc HAS BEEN READING THE

| SMDIP/3 W/T TRAFFIC TO HAVA ALL ALONG AND IS A PRINE EXAMPLE

». GF WOW AN INSECURE INDIGENOUS CONNO NET CAN JEOPARDIZE AND BLOW
"GENTER OPS WHICH ARE OTHERVISE SECURELY MOUPTED.

pcpsoouctiow sy oYR

_gipgabmae
TOT aaeel
