# 104-10167-10146

## Page 1

104-10167-10146|

• UNCLASSIFIED

INTERN AL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

• CONCEDENTIAL:

SECRET

4º0.

BATE

27 July 1959

member, end

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

Mr

Miss Tharpe

DaTE

ROSNES FORMIDES!

128

tely

OFFICEES

INALS

12: Pls. not last

line of Para. 2.

I'm in forning hir Face

an 28 Jaiy.

tell atlans

from men, pre forebly

after surfacing.

T.

8.

10.

12.

13.

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

B. 8 0069A80

UNCLASSIFIED

ararias

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Réproduce

V/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECH

21 July 1959

REHORAIDUR YOR TIR RECORD:

suas Tels pie arrestion vito be tree, 27 0227 2959.

1 Since Colonel King had not spoken uith elther General Cabell

OF 1. Heirs concerzing analsting larcos Dias lnor In contag to the

States, and since sel her dr. Dahlutea nor Mr. Reynolds) knew any-, 03

thire about say such corerastion vit the Director, efter discussing

this natter vita lo, Selma ca 21 Juis, and upon la. Feles" recogan-

datsos, I telepbonad tie Director. concerning this matter.

2. The Director euld be bad not discussed this with Colonel

King, and ashod me shas sus the 1800e.. I seld thet I knew state :lovio

mas not 1lbe the Ides of us berloz broustit this man into the country,

und abould we tall toer, the Director mixed be ubere the mun vas

ma I tole hia be was son in Florida and tast I lad roceived instrue-

tons Bros Colonel Kirs to bring lin up bere and make bia arallable

to the Istelllence coumitji De Director Bald he did not chink

It vas a 800€ 1d00 fOr Harcos to coue bere nor, and reccasended ve

man to can ten me can too to call stato la invo t

but not adult that ve belped bring his onir. ALSO TO MAKE HIM

AVAILABLE TO THE INTEL LEMMUNITT.

3. The Idrector's Inotructions as abore vere complled vitt.

BULOLFS Be COMEZ:

ACKA

Mr. Dahleren

Kro

J 03

ACKE

ranc

Z/BR

---

