# 104-10071-10041

## Page 1

104-0071-10011

ONCLASSIFIED

dra troo

INTERNAL

JSE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

i.".

FROM:

EXTENSION

C/CI/SO

TO: (Officer. designation,

room number, and

building)

Richard Oben

5847

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

2.

CO IDENTIAL

SECRET TO

4.

5.

7.

%.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORA

3-02

610 USE PRENGUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NO.

B- 2628

DATE

7 1 1r to71

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw o line across column

after each comment.)

61/30 Intema! Use

in!

This memo is not to

to be

disseminated outside C1/50

without prior permission from

Chief, CI/SO.

priginated by: CI/SO: GMK: jm

Based on:

016, 18 May

71_ (WPC/ Sens/BW)

017, 19 May 71 (WPC/Sens/BW)

Source: JKLANCE/Hungarian Press

Dissem to FBI (Mr. Wannall)

via CI/SO courier on: 22 MAY

ACTION:

5-2460

15-280%

1agen7

B-7170

1874,0781

File:

WPC/ Sens/BW

FAULKNER/ Sens/GMK (201-354414/GK)

KUSHNER/ Sens/ BW (201-878516/BW)

GILMAN/ Sens/BW (new)

DICKERSON/Sens/BW (201-854982/3W)

GARZA/ Sens/BW

(new)

COLBY / Sens/GMK (201-053968/GK)

KAHN/ Sens/EC

KING/ Sens/JD (201-760966/JD)

ABERNATHY / Sens/JD (201-853022/JD)

WALKER/ Sens/JD

DOUTHARD/ Sens/BW (201-857634/BW)

WYATT / Sens/BW

APTHEKER/Sens/BW (201-757176/BW)

GOODLETT/Sens/BW (201-742726/BW)

Production Budapest

Production JKLANCE

7527

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO DISSEM SPRUAL

B- 2628

21 MAY 1971

SUBJECT:

Americans Attending the World Peace Council (WPC)

Conference in budapest, Hungary, 13-16 May 1971

1.

A reliable source has reported that the following

Amexicans spoke at

the indicated

committee meetings of the

WPC Conference:

A.

Stanley FAULKNER, Committee on European Peace

and Security;

B. Sylvia KUSHNER, Committee on Indochina Aggression;

C. John GILIAN, Committee on the Near East;

D. Mary Angie DICKERSON, Section Meeting Discussing

Discrimination;

E. Luis CARZA, Section Meeting Discussing Dis-

crimination; and

F. Ruth GAGE-COLBY, Committee on Disarmament.

All of the above-named persons

were identified specifically

25

members of the u.S. delegation.

According to the same source, s. FAULKNER, "Vice

President of the American National Lawyers' Association,"

functioned as

Fresident in a meeting of lawyer delegates

to the congress and the american delegate Albert KAHN

translated a message from the widow of artist Fockwell

KENT to the Conference.

3.

In its final coverage on 18 May of the WPC Confer-

ence, which ended 16 May, the Hungarian Press made the

following additional observations regarding United States

participants:

A. Sidney PECk, identified as "USA Professor,"

spoke on the war in Vietnam;

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

B.

The WPC awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE COLD MEDAL

posthumously to the Reverend Martin Luther

KING. The medal was accepted by the Reverend

Kalph ABERVATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T.

WALKER, "an American peace Fighter."

A photo-

graph of the presentation ceremony also included

William DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYATT as U.S.

delegates to the Conference;

C.

U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia

KUSHNER spoke at a meeting of Indochinese and

American delegates; and

D. Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Carlton GOODLETT

were re-elected to the Presidential Board of

the WPC.

4.

for previous information on Subject, please refer

to our teletype 3216, dated 14 May 1971

Subject: Ralph

David ABERNATHY

and Dr. Carlton GOODLETT.

Please transmit reply via CACTUS channel

Originated

Based on:

by: CI/SO: GMKline : jm

J016, 18 May 71 (WPC/Sens/BW) and

19 May 71 (WPC/Sens/BW)

Source: JKLANCE/Hungarian Press

Distribution:

Original - FBI (Mr. Wannall) via CI/SO courier

1

- B memo chrono

1

- extra copy

1

- WPC/Sens/BW

- FAULKNER/Sens/GMK (201-354414/GK)

1

1

- KUSHNER/ Sens/BW (201-878516/BW)

- GILMAN/ Sens/BW (new)

- DICKERSON/Sens/BW (201-854982/BW)

-

GARZA/ Sens/BN (new)

1

- COLBY/Sens/GMK (201-053968/GK)

- KAHN/ Sens/EC

KENT, Mrs. /Sens/GK (201-221724/GK)

- PECK/Sens/BW (201-830466/BW)

- KING/ Sens/JD (201-760966/JD)

ABERNATHY / Sens/JD (201-853022/JD)

WALKER/ Sens/ JD

DOUTHARD/Sens/BW (201-857634/BW)

WYATT/Sens/BW

APTHEKER/Sens/BW (201-757176/BW)

GOODLETT/ Sens/BW (201-742726/BW)

- Production

- Production JKLANCE

017,

RO FORDEN DISSEM/NO DISSEN ABROAD

---

