# 104-10186-10161

## Page 1

104-10186-10161

INFORMATION REPORTA

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY CubA

SUNICT orE" (an allas)

REPORt NO.

CSC1-316/01217-65

DATE DISTR

IS March 1965

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES • CS-311/00115-64

(Page ¿)

3 July. 1968

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

washington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ MArCh 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

TISES LAVEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOVACE ORADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE APPRAISAL DE CEMTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a sertes contaiaing personality

inforastion provided by the source and includes supplemental

infornation from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

individuals

mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Vorni" is the secretary to Felix Rafael (Inu) (See

CSCI-316/00<30-65, 2 February 1965) in Tramites (the Central

Processing Section) of the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional

(National Liberation Department • LN) of the Direccion General

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)..

2.

"Norma" was born between 1912 and 1944, is five feet seven

orreight inches tall,

weighs about 115 pounds, and has a medium

build.

She has a white complexion, light 'brown hair and eyes,

thin eyebrows,

teeth.

." thin face, a hooked nose, and white, uniform

"Norma" always wears a uniform.

Headquarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

information on

"Norma."

5

N ta

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1

STATE

REP

I NAVY

CINCSO *

I NSA

XXKX

1 FBI

2

Pote: Field dier Dutisa

INFORMATKON REPORT MINFORMATION-REPORTE

WH/ C/CA

LI CI/LLA

LLE

LX 2516

WI/C/110

WH/CURR

MAI FEDE

160

LIE

-O PROJECT (AWMUG/1

A.CRASIL

MA C-RR 085

RIDLAN

-LSC1316/0127-65

SUINATIMO!

POTALS. Mi CS (1).

NE 1 (1), CA A, RID 1

185: LD: 58

10T/0F

VIBR

---

