-t0240-t0000 7

Lore i ey
i YEXGAMDON FOR: | Chief, WS/2 :
Aarewetomn - ee ‘
- | SUBJECT: = ~ Technical fnelycls of Lotter ond Ecvelope ~
i D3 CASS. Pad 4352 :
i ReFeaROR We/2 Mano dated 13 Decester 1963 ‘

le In recponze to rever:ncut request, on oricimal tyouritton
send enveloxe eldresse4 vo the Frericen Sctassy, S¢xuhola, -

vere xeenined in onioy to dcternine the origin of ta letir ani the” ~~
uatiuwlity of tha vriter. wot

i 2. The following conclusions wre drawn concerning the letter
| axd wavelopat
ae “ime typewriter ia questios 13 equipped with en obsolete * |
style of Geramn-mde tyre Wilen, acconiing to our referozces, vas
fitted on a rotter of ty writers code in Cersany curing the 190s -
ana cerly 19323. The possible mates would be Evoswer, Torzcdo,
Nereoges, Rhefroetall, Urania, Orea, Fortuna, Costincrtel, Keppel,
- Groma, Triuayh, Morz ond yoecibly sae others. Cf these makes, *
 . she Torpedo, Hi sede Rostemetall and Triumh vere provably the.
nost. widely distritut:

ith a black acd red’:
dich, ag show by two
Tacse

bd. The moctine tn quontion is equi;
ttos. Tas koytcard da very jaotesly
rike-overs: unlenteu for iyphoa and "2" for “a
ehsrsetera aro aéjacent cn ti cianland Cucdish keybocrd,
a the Gergen. he unlautes ws so: used in the etreet
“Strenévagen® (where the dot: A have keen placed over the
second “a"). This might te either a simple oversight or an cttcnpt
to dena the writer ® fenilicrity vita. the coszect 2

(dT) size "ee “wateh io clsuct universally used in Sve ‘The
linen-textured stationery soos to te rather ecocca In Suton. ae
vith

| © The tye smaller pieces of blank papar match the letter
3 respect to width, thickness, color, texture and locket awa, ond
= vere probably cut from erother ehoet of the cana type. ‘Do 2 enveloza
tehes syecincas of fuedisa onvelo,es taken froa LE/5-Post.
ae Tatelligence files.

i

i

i

|

i

: |
ce. The popar of the lettur 4s of the interssticnyl standard |
1

i

j

poten



DS lume FE5C5 © Fogo 2

@. ‘the lotter ven.zocted .froa the. Ctocholn Ban post-office,
Wiech is located fn thy coxtrel ratluty
#1) rail Cerorited fn ct “42 Uanuip ta this crea or ta tc yest

2 Ofiice vould be srccesie2 tnrdigh unis station.

@. Tha cancollctica cachat on tie exveloye 45 identical ta
L respects (forzzt, rose-ars, naukex etyle and length of xier
bars) to exenplere cvatlubie ia cur oifice.

Te yostacs te corvect for Sedich interval mot] ond the
yottega stamp ds ¢* current feaue. :

& A yosathic srreguarity is tua tine log betvecn the intersal t
ste of the letter, the dite of the yostmra ond tho date of recei;t
in the /zeriean Extacsy. ‘The votel tize irom the internal dete ef
the letcer to tho tine of receipt is eight days, tha tic? tetwen
ths date of posting and tho dete of receipt is rore thon tree days.
This truusit tina of more tasa three cays for atrocity ret] epyecrs
drregilor vane comyared vit
three Coys for crrival buivoss Stovskile ood the United ccwes.

3. Tre text of the lottar warrants ene cocments bec: mober
of. poculiaritics were noted - cvide fron yare cpelling or tj7i55 crvors =
2 folloving wores
cere’, x

i
i

either Cvedish. 97° ding ox.meds:
| “Kreatjav".s Other examples of Coxltca iwemr and syotax vo
os “pact” (es post tense), “in Soviet” (Swdirh form but sot ezealste),
“pe ves spy” (without istefinite ariicls), “FSI, USA" (vithous oa
article), “stosld® (rather thin “s010"}, ‘cutmngrloa "(Suede 25
parlicizice fors), ora “wacle ts world” {pize Swwdich fora).

4, Another sigaificent detail to the sexe given, "Ryo Lo
Hy “Ryo” 43 not a ctandant syellicg in aay lncva Rexentzatéon o
gon chizeees "R” ds oxen an Chineto Communist natioal oy
: ‘bat sever io cazbinstica vith "yo"
\ the nom? given 4t 4s not knowa ¥
tetion ic used, in other vonis,
the cursume. Azong Chinese sylissles waich could be repress: oa
Sapenocs "Ryo" aro Liao, Lian; oxi Laag. CF thece Lung (90:7(93) end
Lang (2:2733) ere used as curnvno. In citzer case, "Tyo" 18 x0
@ sora dy vaica a real Chineos would identify hinselt.

ut 5. In mamery, ond based 02 tly atove faformation, it Laied
: that the letter vas tranmitted vin uormal Swdish postal ca: ‘the
lettar 19 probably & “crank lotts:



‘

DB tens $6505 ~ Page 3

6. For further inforrsticn concerning the. typeuriter end pazer
antlysca, erd tha Svedica etyle of lonmayp usage, contact itr. Jon
Teck 02 42009, For ferther Intersition on the orelling of the

stentible writer's nuss, you nay econtuct Mire Gerald Worth oa «2008.
For further information rozartics; cas iosval aspects of this cree,
please contact Kr. Robart d. Beacs on x2H9.

J+ Tho original letter and envelope are being returned herewith.

Gidet, TD/D3

Attachients (1)
2a stated

Distritution:
Orig & 1 + Addressee

2. + ‘TSD/CARB/ALR
ae rsp/DB/3
1 - DB files
1- Pr cnpone a

1 ~ Case 4363
ey need



ceca etn RL ED FLEET EO EE SEIS

ry

13 dee 4353

ORANDUM FOR: TSD/D3/5

AQIEETIONs

SUBJECT; Technical Analysix of Levter and Envelope

1. Attached is a letter mailed
Stockholm yuryortedly fr
Bxbessy in Stociholn.
folded sheet o:
letter within
these attach:
cercerning the crizin oF
used. If you have an
. with other correspondence crigint

Extassy in Stoc!
not the stationery, typevriter, and envelope are of the type |
normally used vy that Sxoassy.

2. Because of the sensational neture of the contents of ‘ t
the letter and the necessity for our czecicing out such allega-
tions as quickly end thorouchly as yossibvle, it is re
that this technical enalysis be undercaien on a priority |
| ana that the undersigned sy novified ty pnone as soon as ery
conclusions ere reached.

3. Please acknowledce vhe receipt of the attached letter
ané ensure that its whereatoits, when in your custody, is 2
nutter of record. We prefer that the letter and enveloze be

kept-as intact.as-possidle. while undergoing’ technical a!

e We7Z XTSST



"Oswald? Letter to US Embassy, Stockholm.

Fgarding the language in the Subject letter, which isn't standard English, it

is difficult to say that 4t reflects any particular foreign (non-English) background,
"Qutsmzzled®-{s Germanic;. and "Sowiet may be Germanic.or Slavic, and both my

tend to be suggestive, However, a Chinese who has studies several European”
languages may easily mix the idioms or spellings of any of them in an effort

at English composition.

A nore significant detail is the name given, Ryo Liang Yilan, "Ryo" is not a
svandard spelling in any known romanization system used for Chinese, ®2" is seen
in the now Chinese Coxaunist national system, but never in combination with

yo". "Ryo" is a Japanese spelling.

In the nane given it is not lmown whether the Chinese or western presentation
is used, or, in other words, whether "Ryo" dr "Yan" is meant to be the surname,
Azong Chinese syllables which could be reprosented by the Japanese "Ryo" are
Liao, Liang and Lung. Of these Lung (TC: 7893) and Liang (TC: 2733) are used
as surnanes. In either case, "Ryo" is hardly a name by which a real Gninese
would identify hinself. b

The unit which keeps record of Chinese Cormmnist diplomatic and official
personnel abroad will very probaly oe able to determina whether taere is
@n actual person in the Chinese Comunist Embassy in Stockhola with whom the
name given in the letter can be connacted, The.US Exbassy. will have means
of leaming whether taat person was in Stockholm at the tine of the letter
writing, and whethar he has eubsequently been removed.


adi aFatarconinciguaonte me SAH earanseant stb AOA SEER SET AOD seers x ep
vn inact beesibennd en seinstacsers pint
7 os

@he Fresident of the United Stutes oy Anerica, John ? Neanedy was
assassinated by Lee H Oswald oy direct order of the government of t
the Peoples Republic of China. Lee H Oswald executed the act alone
but there was helpers and reserv. "Sow ull is over" was password
to his customers. Oswald was a fully convinced Communist tut he

must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswald already

when he was in Sowiet but then to try to get him as a spy for China.
Later he was spy for us. When Lee E Qsvald had returned fo USA we
Cubtscteu niu auew sou icesueucd up ais mind “you have been @ spy

for us" and told hia what could happen to him if FBI got inforzed.

Now we had him. He got his last inZorzetion in Mexico. /It was rot

gocd to assassinate Zennedy in wexico/ "Fair Play for cuba" was :
sturied only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro vor the as-
ssassinetei. Our government thought that USA should attack Cuba .

when Xennedy was gurded as the orginaztion wus behind the assassin-

” ation. When Cuba was attaczed by USA Sowiet must help Castro defend
himself. I: that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi-
ted. We should be allieted with Sowiet then we would asx them for A=
bombs and they should not be able to refuse us. Ye and Sowiet should
win. this.wer end whole the worla shovld be Comzunistic., then we should
assassinate Arustjev and other

of the Nev 25). When this letzer will reach you they have caked

zet leaders end we would be leader

w

away with cc and all that knowed the plenes. This letter is outsmuggled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is arghinese spy-shcol, *

ky name is Ryo Liang Yuan, Officer in the departnent, for State-secret. .
——~—_- toe

cat aceon
If you do not belive this letter explain our hate to Ui



4-00009

e

LLL IOI OT I I °

me & SS ES "8 : Ss El asa
: _ fey 22! oath ; fa US maw : ai .

American, Embassy
Strandvagen 101
STOCZHOLE No

-ENIBASSY OF THE —
UNTIED STAiks UE AMERICA
Tos ed £19593

MAIL ROOM.
STOCKHOLM,

pspianentengenn chy usp enue eanmamatetck neta cto ha Or
carter arena nih dante co mente . ‘ .: :
