104-10336-10022| ae

gees -t~ 2
a CHA Le-23 .
she’ hak tro
Memorandum
February 9, 1998
To: Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director
Adartad)
ce: Bob Skwirot tb
CIA Coordinator mu Coshe
252-9
From: Michelle Combs

Special Assistant for Research and Review -
Subject: CIA¢IR-23 Watch Reports of the United States Intelligence Board

In response to informal request CIA-IR-23, CIA has searched the records of the National
Intelligence Program Evaluation Staff (NIPE), including the United States Intelligence
Board Watch Reports, action memorandums, meeting minutes, and chronological files,
for the period January 1963 to May 1964 for information relating to the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy.

The search produced eight United States Intelligence Board Watch Reports from the
period 27 November 1963 - 27 May 1964. I have reviewed these eight documents,
consisting of 14 pages, and have marked portions of six reports as assassination records:
27 November 1963, 24 December 1963, 22 January 1964, 22 April 1964, 29 April 1964,
and 20 May 1964.

Like the President’s Intelligence Checklist and the President’s Daily Brief, these _
documents cover multiple topics. I recommend that the portions of the document not
deemed related to the Kennedy assassination be declared NBR and redacted.

Once the six marked reports have been included for processing as assassination records,
this response is complete.

DRAFT


To: Barry

From: Michelle

Re: Watch Committee Reports

Barry,

I read through the reports and marked paragraphs relevant to the assassination in six of
the eight reports. The Board almost certainly will want these relevant paragraphs
released in full. Given that these six reports constitute only eleven total pages and that
the information in them is now consigned to the pages of history, it would be nice to have
the entire reports reviewed for release. If this creates a sensitivity or speed-in-processing
problem, see the attached draft memo, I don’t know if Jeremy will go for the memo as a
full response to CIA-IR-23. If CIA will not release the six reports with reasonabte
redactions, would you check with Kathy Dyer to see if my memo is unclassified. Let

me know.


13-00000

AFNINDG, TSC- pene eee ts
Hq., USAF

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

No. 27 : 27 November. 1963

Conclusion

[No Communist Bloc count tends to i cect military acti
: iste future. _ (TOP SECRET)

i 1. Bloc Intemational Developments

The Soviet Bloc does not appear to have taken any new initiatives in the past
few days, and it has already issued several unofficial but guardedly hopeful comments.
Soviet Bloc news media continue to reflect Moscow's concern lest a dangerous contro-
versy result from allegations that Cswald's acts were motivated by his Marxist political
orientation. (CONFIDENTIAL)

The Sino~Soviet dispute continues fo be treated with restraint by the USSR,
while the Chinese demonstrate n~ signs of moderating their public polemics against
Soviet policies. (CONFIDENTIAL)

ul. Soviet Bloc Military Developments

We have discerned no Soviet or Eastern European Satellite military reaction
to the assassination of President Kennedy. A relatively low level of training, con-
sidered normal for this season, appears to be continuing. (SECRET)

i.

(Te? {Berlin ond Germany: The Soviet note of 21 November on Autobahn pro- >
cedures Fe together with the Soviet oral statement of 16 November appeared designed to?
i bed the previous round of incidents but at the same time reasserted a Soviet claim to (
| determine Autobahn procedures. Since the underlying issue remains unresolved, the /
Lose Soviet statement could serve as the starting point for a renewal of harassment wy

(SECRET) | po

{ (2. J Cuba: The” concentration of tanks and self-propelled assault guns noted ir in /
“photography 0 of 23 and 24 November at the Loma de Tierra and Managua military: eae
‘comps near Havana apparently is in preparation for the 1 Jenuary celebration of thee 7,

TAD CEPDET


TOP SECRET —

: : — a
fifth anniversary of Castro's J revolution Shaler pepsrattona were noted last / [
December for this purpose. (SECRET)

3. Sino-Indian Border Conflict; We have noted no significant new develop-
ments. (CONFIDENTI

4. Vietnam: The accelerated tempo of Viet Cong activity continues. Al- \
though confirmed figures on North Vietnamese militory infiltration into South Viemmam \
remain considerably below those of last year, newly acquired reports from prisoners 1
are continuing to raise the 1963 totals, and we believe that additional infiltrators

will be confirmed os further reports are received. (SECRET) \ |

of South Vietnam appears to be under way, with Chinese Communist ond Soviet support.

For the first time in nearly a year, the Communist-sponsored National Front for the 1

Liberation of South Vietnam reiterated its support for an intemational guarantee of |
\

A renewed North Vietmamese propaganda campaign for the neutralization

Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam, in line with the proposal of Cambodian Premier
Sihanouk. North Vietnamese insistence on the withdrawal of US forces indicates that
Hanoi is not seriously interested in a settlement at this time except on its own terms. |
The North Vietnamese premier reportedly professes to see signs of war weariness among |

the American people and says his government intends to keep up the pressure In South |
Vienon. (Ci) ee eraeeeeamiaay |

5. Laos: The "cease-fire" between the neutralists and the Pathet Loo in the \ |
Plaine des Jarres area has proved ineffective and both sides have continued sporadic |
artillery firing in the area. Meanwhile, the neutralists have continued their limited |
offensive in the Vang Vieng-Ban Namone area along Route 13 north of Vientiane
with apparent success. Pathet Loo units reportedly moved to the west of Route 13 and
possibly are regrouping for a counteraitock.. (SECRET)

NAL

VBR

There are few signs that the Communists are prepared to make any signifi-

| eant concessions toward an agreement. While they appear to be seeking talks between
Souvanna and Souphanouvong, they have flatly rejected the establishment of joint
patrols to maintain the cease-fire. Their principal objective apparently is to split

the Kong Le forces from collaboration with the FAR. (CONFIDENTIAL)

(| 6 Cambodia; Peiping's reaction to Sihanouk's accusations of US subversion

| and to the suspension of US aid to Cambodia has been basically cautious, despite state-
ments of all-out Chinese support against any US-supported invasion of Cambodia.

| Peiping's public stotements have dealt only with the contingency of armed attack and
have not indicated Its attitude toward subversive activity across Cambodia's borders.
Peiping and Hanoi have made the most of the situation by condemning alleged US

\ violations of the 1954 Geneva Agreements and declaring their firm support for Cam-

bodian "independence and neutrality." (CONFIDENTIAL)

=

oe _ ne aa

TAD CEPDET


13-00000

TOP SECRET sess

WATCH REPORT
: of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

No./696) 24 December 1963 |
Conclusion i

No Communlst Bloc country intends to Initiate direct military action in. 1
fete eS eS ey

Bloc International Developments

The Soviets, while attempting to assess the new leadership in the US
since the assassination of President Kennedy, have avoided raising new frictions in
Soviet-US relations. They have simultaneously been devoting considerable attention
to their domestic.economic problems and to intra-bloc relations. However, we have
noted no significant alteration in their major foreign policy goals vis-a-vis the West
and we note that Khrushchev has recently reaffirmed Soviet support for “national
liberation" movements and has reiterated Soviet "warnings" against a US attack on
Cuba. (SECRET)

jg esi further-analysis-of the Soviet- 1964-65 Aree ‘and related information leads

| ys to believe that the chemical program will have a limited but significant effect on
\ defense procurement during the next two years. (SECRET) |

Soviet Bloc Military. Developments Be reseeees =|
|

\ Critical Areas |
| Gritica™ Areas
i=

ul Berlin and Germany: The possibility continues of incidents arising from
the large number of West Bechivers visiting East Berlin during the holidays. Increased |

\
‘numbers of East German security and military units have been noted along the Wall \
lin what appears to be precautionary measures. (SECRET)

| |

i

2. Cuba: No significant change in the status of Soviet forces In Cuba hos
|been noted during the past week. (SECRET)

15 December, reportedly unloaded since, ten Sec ee _ |
quem ™ =

J ! The Soviet cargo ship Krasnoye , which arrived at Martel oround |

TAD CEPDET


TOP SECRET senses

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

22 Jonvary 1964

H Genclusion — 4 ae seeierseeeittcn sis wo oe

' | No Convhunist Bloc count intends to dire ii ion | |

i immediate future. (TOP SECRET) |
\ fia

| Sino-Soviet Bloc policy developments are included in the relevant sections |
below. (CONFIDENTIAL) . \

Soviet Bloc Military Developments ie |

\

| | Bloc ground force activity continues to reflect winter training on a scale

| generally comparable with that noted last year at this time. The first restriction this i }
year on travel of the Allied Military Liaison Missions in East Germany has been imposed |
for the period 19-26 January in an area west of Berlin which includes the Letzlinger
Heide-Elbe River North traiaing areas. The restriction is probably intended to screen

| an East German field exercise, possioly involving | elements of both. diate districts.
| (SECRET) SS ee oi

Critical Areas

Berlin and German it's latest proposal for a nuclear-free i
ti hrushchev's end-of-the-year world-wide peace proposal, appears to be | \
{Tdrgely a a propaganda play to boost East Germany's political stats. The East German

| regime has kept open negotiations on a new pass agreement and the prospect is for pro~
tracted and difficult talks. The East Germans have already tried to expand the scope of
the talks and, as part of their negotiating position, have posed conditions they know to
‘be unacceptable to the West Berlin Senat. The Communists will wont to keep the nego-
tiations alive, however, if only to secure tacit Westem acceptance of the principle of
direct talks between the Senat and East Germans. (SECRET)

The rotation of a US battalion to and from Berlin, concluded on 16 Jaovary, | |
rought no Soviet oF East Getman interference. » (CONFIDENTIAL) een

re Cuba: There has been no significant change in the status of Soviet forces in
Cuba. (SECRET)

TAP SECRET


13-00000
. bee ee oo : rereny
. HH \

TOP SECRET

Khrushchev on 17 January at Kalinin followed a strong condemnation of the
US position in Panama with a pointed reference to the US naval base at Guantanamo as
"Cuban soil" that "must belong to Cuba." He again reiterated Soviet support for Castro's
"five points," strongly stated Soviet willingness to defend Cuba and emphasized that
President Kennedy's “no-invasion" pledge was binding on the new US administration.
While these remarks may have been primarily designed to reassure Castro, these repeated
public statements of support tend to make the Soviet commitment to Cuba more binding.

(CONFIDENTIAL)
[peace eee eee Sree ee oS

3. 7 / Communist China: The authoritative Chinese Communist newspaper, People's > 7)
(Daily, has echoed Moo Tse-tung's 12 January call for a global struggle on the trontedt :
i | possible scale against “US imperiolist aggression." People's Daily said all forces in the
a world including the American people but excluding Tmpertaltom and its lackeys"
| | should form the united front. As a further reflection of Communist China's announced
| | implacable hostility toward the United States, Peiping is conducting a protest campaign
| | against US actions in Panema which now rivals ond may exceed in magnitude and intensity
_ .@ similar campaign against the US during the Cubanictisis.. While it is less intense than {|
| “at the time of the American landing in Lebanon in 1958, it appears to be part of a de-
| | liberate program to generate widespread anti-US hostility among the Chinese population.

|) (CONFIDENTIAL)

iia Vietnam: Viet Cong armed attacks continue at a reduced level. The Com-
| | munists, however, are sustaining a high level of harassing and terrorist activity aimed H
| | @t sapping the resistance of the rural population and paramilitary forces. The focus of | |
| 1 Viet Cong activity remains the delta, but we note that the slow but gradual buildup of

; Viet Cong numerical and organizational strength is also continuing in the Communist

| Milltary Region V, the northernmost region of South Vietnam. The scale of this buildup, | |

|
|

' : in contrast to the low level of Viet Cong activity in this area, suggests a future stepup

| | of Viet Cong attacks in the north. (SECRET)

1 | i
|

\ At the second Congress of the Communist-sponsored Liberation Front, held
| | In early January, the chairman stated that the civil war had “entered a new and . [
brilliant phase," but continued to caution that the struggle would be “protracted.” | y
i | (CONFIDENTIAL) i

| i The military junta continues to be disturbed over talk of a neutralist solution
\ \ for South Vietnam. Reports of impending French recognition of Communist China have |
\ | apparently also caused a stir in South Vietnamese official circles. (CONFIDENTIAL) =
, |

1 |

if
\ | 5. Loos: Action is continuing in the Na Kay orea north of Nhommarath. { |
| Communist forces appear to have made some further gains west of Kham Keut although | {
\ | |

apparently remains generally. unchanged. -

4

\ \the situation in the N

= eeceeseaseeeeaaaoce :

TAD SFRRFT


13-00000

wa AFNINDG, TSC-76-64 TSC-76-64
S : Hq USAR ticrinicriin
a WATCH REPORT a

of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

29 January 1964

a oe {

; Conclusion _ ay : tee ain iseoestseist tet brated eet

No Communist Bloc country intends to initiate direct ion in the
i immediate future. (TOP SECRET)

Bloc Intemational Developments

Soviet Bloc a are included in relevant sections below. (CON-
FIDENTIAL)

Critical Areas

i he Berlin and Germany: The Soviet, shootdown of a USAF T-39 over East Germany
: on 28 January occurred when the US plane became lost during a routine instrument train- |
| ing flight over West Germany. This Is the first such shootdown of an Allied aircraft over

\ East Germany since 1953, although there have been numerous inadvertent overflight

| violations in the interim. The 28 January incident followed a Soviet waming on 25

\ January that US violations of the alr corridors would "lead to hard, undesirable conse-
x ' quences." The incident indicates at least continued Soviet sensitivity both to border
SQ { violations by Westem aircraft and to any appearance of Soviet weakness on the Germon
> scene. (SECRET)

2. Cuba: There has been no significant change in the status of Soviet forces in
| Cuba during the post week. (SECRET)

The 22 January Soviet-Cuban communique reiterated previously stated Soviet
commitments to defend Cuba in the event of an Invasion by the United States. Mention
of Marshals Malinovskiy and Grechko, as well as Cuban military personnel, among the
Participants in the Soviet-Cuban talks makes it a virtual certainty that military matters

| were discussed. (SECRET)

13. Vietnam: Viet Cong activity has increased somewhat, notably in the intensity /

| | of armed attacks, but terrorism continues to comprise the bulk of their effort to control
| the population. The situation in the Mekong delta and certain other areas remains
critical, and the government is in a race against time to devise effective counter-

| insurgency measures. However, in several provinces where able province chiefs have

| been recently installed and military security achieved, popular r morale appears to have
improved. ASECRED. fete aean i seca

TOP SECRET


13-00000

TOP SEDRET. sos

WATCH REPORT -
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

No. 713 | 22 April 1964

: ‘onelusions ~~ aE — pees sats PT a a {

No Communist country intends to initiate direct military action in the

‘Immediate future against the United States, its overseas forces or its Allies.” (TOP
SECRET)

Laos: The intetnal situation remains highly unstable. The situation Is
favorable for Communist gains,

but we have thus far discemed no Communist mili-
tary reaction. (TOP SECRET)

Bloc International Developments i a

i
}
The celebration this week of Khrushchev's 70th birthday provided a plat-
form for the other Soviet and pro-Soviet East European leaders to declare their support
| "for Khrushchev's policies and program. There appears to be no serious domestic |
‘challenge to his position and he has demonstrated a clear intention to continue to |
carry his full burdens of leadership. Khrushchev's announcement on 20 April of a
cut in Soviet production of fissionable materials also suggests that he Intends to |
| continue policies designed to convey a sense of reduced East-West tensions. {
(CONFIDENTIAL) \
| | Reports from refugees who arrived in Hong Kong from Sinkiang Province |
of China on 12 April provide evidence that the Chinese Communists have a systematic |
program for resettling local Inhabitants inland along the entire length of at least the |
° Sinkiong frontier and have established o 20-mile deep security zone. The refugees’
report of substantial Chinese troop reinforcements to Sinkiang, however, has not been |

genfirmed by available evidence. (SECRET)

\entieat Areas a maemo : ae aaaa)

1. ‘Cuba: Fidel Castro's 19 April speech on the third anniversary of the Bay
of Pigs and President Dorticos' speech the following day appear tv mark the initiation
of a new Cuban diplomatic offensive against the US. The Cuban notes of 21 April
indicate that continued US overfligt.ts and US occupancy of Guantanamo will be

the chief targets of this diplomatic drive. Castro singled out alleged US provocations

: TOP SECRET


13-00000

fe

|
}
i
|

TOP SECRET 22 April 1964

at the Guantanamo naval base for special treatment and the next day Dorticos con=
demned continuing violations of Cuban air space. Castro stated that Cuba refused

to sanction or legalize these provocations and overflights and wamed that the limits
of patience are being "dangerously violated." Fidel indicated a willingness to
utilize the forum of international opinion to publicize these provocations, but at the
same time called for increased combat preparedness of his military forces to resist
“physical aggressions" against Cuba “cost what it will and come what may." (CON-
ilachatahdeton

—-~~A Cuban defector who had been assigned toa SAM cape in Pinar del )
Rio Province has reported that an cli-Cuban crew was to be selected in May foran ||
actual firing of o surface-to-air missile against a drone target. He stated that if i
the firing was successful, and the target was destroyed, it would signal the tumover \\
of control to the Cubans and the withdrawal of most of the Soviet SAM personnel. |
(SECRET) \|

2. Vietnam: The Viet Cong are maintaining heavy pressure on govemment = ||
forces in the Delta. Some of the recent attacks have been within 10 miles of Saigon
and an increasing number of them occurred during daylight hours when the Viet Cong |
are most vulnerable. (CONFIDENTIAL) i

3. Laos: The intemal situation remains highly unstable following the break-
down of the tripartite discussions at the Plaine des Jarres and the ensuing right-wing /
military coup attempt in Vientiane on 19 April. There is a danger of further becieee| rf
tate action by right-wing elements. (SECRET)

Thus far, there has been no discemible reaction from the Communists,
other than the expected propaganda, and they probably consider it to their od=
vantage to maintain a wait-and-see attitude. If the coalition govemment should
collapse or be removed, the Communists may move to establish a separate “liberation” ||
government. There have been a number of reports since last December that the i
Pathet Lao and dissident neutralists have made plans, with Chinese Communist and }

North Vietnamese backing, for the establishment of such a government in Phong
Saly Province should the Souvanna government collapse or become too closely

committed to the right-wing faction. We have noted o number of other Communist j
moves in recent months which could enable the Communists to exploit a collapse |
of the soalition government. GECRET) i

TAP SFERET


13-00000

ecg eeaaes | TOP SECRET Te use TSC-320-64

WATCH REPORT
of the Rametactnan fener
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD ve

No./714__? 29 April 1964

| Conclusions

|

| | No Communist country intends to initiate direct military action a im-

} | | mediate future against the United States, its overseas forces or its Allies.
oh a aay

| | Laos: The intemal situation remains highly unstable. At the same time,
| | Pathet Loo forces have begun to take advantage of the confusion and further Communist
\

| ae action appears likely. (TOP SECRET)

1 | Bloc International Developments

\ The Chinese Communists are unlimbering fora new major anti-Soviet polemic.
| On 27 April the Chinese Communists reprinted the Suslov report, the CPSU resolution

| | ond the 3 April Pravda editorial attacking the Chinese leadership--Pelping's usval

| preparation for a heavy counterattack. These anti-Chinese documents were introduced

| by a lengthy and sarcastic editorial note which promised further Chinese refutation of

{ ' Soviet “lies, sophistry and abuse" and taunted the USSR over its inability to supply

| | elther a rebuff or a joint condemnation of China. We have noted that the Rumanian

| | Party Central Committee has demonstrated a remarkable degree of independence in a

| resolution published in Scinteia on 26 April proposing again a cessation of Sino-

| Soviet polemics and further efforts at a negotiated solution. (CONFIDENTIAL)

| | Soviet Bloc Milltory Developments
\ | In East Germany, Soviet military activity appears concentrated on prepara>

\tlons for the annual demonstrations and displays held during May In the Letzlinger

Heide training area, which may be longer in durotion this year than usual. (SECRET)

' A marked drop In training activity by Soviet Bloc military forces Is expected |
\ ‘overs the forthcoming Moy Day holidays. (SECRET)

Critical Areas

im Cuba: A 22 April Izvestiya "Observer" article has reiterated previous Soviet
warnings that the USSR will "side with Cuba" if the latter is subject to an extemal

TOP SECRET


13+ 00000

TOP SECRET

/ 29 April 1964

attack, but avoided any commitment to specific Soviet countermeasures in such an event.
The article also asserted that Cuba has the “inalienable right" to take the "necessary
measures to put an end fo the intrusion of foreign warplones into its airspace." The
article may herald a propaganda and diplomatic campaign intended to arouse inter-
national alarm over the US overflights. The Soviets and Cubans may hope that agitation

of the issue would in itself induce the US to eventually curtail or terminate these flights.
(SECRET)

Qaacee Vietnam: The oyoce are increasing ti

ir pressure against government \\
(forces i in the Delta area and in the region around Saigon. The pattem of attacks and of

t | | sabotage actions against lines of communications suggests a Communist effort to isolate |
[| i district and provincial centers. (SECRET)
|

Our cumulative evidence suggests that the Communists are working steadily
| to improve their capabilities for expanded and sustained military operations. Recently i
|. available information indicates expansion in recent months of some facilities associated |
| | with infiltration routes through Laos--specifically a staging area in North Vietnam on |
|! Route 12 near the Loos border, and another staging area at Ben Thay on Route 9 in
| southern Loos. (SECRET)

| 3. Laos: The intemal crisis remains unresolved. (CONFIDENTIAL)

\ Communist attacks against FAR and neutralist positions in easter Xieng
| Khouang Province have increased sharply since 26 April, although Kong Le's main
, positions in the Plaine des Jarres area do not seem immediately threatened. Prior to \4
| \ the coup, there had been indications that the Communists were improving their VA
| capabilities for attacks in Xieng Khouang Province. A buildup of Communist strength ut
has been under way in the Tha Thom area southeast of Xieng Khouang town for several \
‘weeks and Communist attacks in this area are also possible at any time. In addition,
| the Communists have succeeded in reopening Route 7 from North Vietnam, and heavy
: | | convey movement over this road was reported in early and mid-April. (SECRET)

| In south-central Laos, truck convoys have been reported over routes leading |
_ | toward Tchepone and Muong Phine. (SECRET) | |
| |

i Within the past several weeks, there have been a number of unconfirmed HE
| | reports suggesting an increased Chinese Communist military presence in Loos. Some \

Chinese Communist military personnel are reported to have arrived in Nam Tha and 1
Phong Saly Provinces during February end March. We now have unconfirmed reports Ht
\ \ of the presence of Chinese military personnel in Xieng Khouang Province. We are unable,

| , on the basis of present information, to determine the numbers or mission of these personnel .
f (SECRET) —

Vee

TOP SECRET


13;00000

TOP SECRET gauge ners

qe

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

No.{717? 20 May 1964

\ No Communist country Intends to Initiate direct military action in the Im- |
| mediate future against the United States, its overseas forces or its Allies. (TOP

SC ae eames

|

Laos: The Communist capture of the Plaine des Jarres and other positions in
‘southeastern Xieng Khouang Province will place them in control of almost all of Loos

| ‘except for the Mekong Valley. We believe that current Communist operations will

| stop short of attocks against major positions In the Mekong Valley. We believe, how-

| ‘ever, the Communists can bring to bear the necessary forces to accomplish their |
objectives involving ultimate control of Loos ot times generally of their own choosing.
In our judgment, the primary limiting factor is their desire to avoid escalation by
stimulating US counteractions. The Communists can be expected to proceed at a cal=

| culated pace within this frome of reference with their program. (TOP ‘SECRET i |

“Bloc Intemational Developme nts

The Soviet Union has focused specific attention during the past week on its
support of “national liberation” struggles. In Egypt, Khrushchev has repeated standard
Soviet statements of support for revolutionary movements In colonial areas. The Soviet
Ambassador In Hanoi at @ press conference there restated the Soviet pledge of support
. for North Vietnam's aims in South Viemam. Simultaneously, Soviet propoganda media
have carried a number of statements on Cuba, condemning alleged US backing of
Cuban exiles, linking the U-2 overflights to ‘these exiles, and reminding the West of
the still vague Soviet defense commitment to Cuba. (CONFIDENTIAQ
eee aoe : jai
oo ~The Rumanian regime reportedly has been conducting on unprecedented 7
i énti-Russion campaign among the populace within the past week. The campaign may
presage new steps by Bucharest to demonstrate Rumanian independence and will further | \
complicate Soviet relations with other Communist countries. The campaign will arouse it
popular hope for liberalization, although the regime has given little indication of
abandoning its hardline-internal- policies (CONFIDENTIAL) —---—-- - —---— ve

oo if

TOP SECRET



‘TOP SECRET

if ~ Soviet Bloc Miltoy | Bevslopniine — _— aaa apa ates ae

\
\
i Soviet air operations during the past week Included reconnaissance flights |
|| against the USS Shangri-La in the North Atlantic on 15 May by four TU-95/BEARs li
and against the USS Midway in the North Pacific on 17 May by six BISONs. In both
instances fighters from the US aircraft carriers intercepted and-escorted the Soviet \
heavy bombers while they were in the area. This represents a resumption of recon= \\
naissance flights after several months! lapse. (SECRET)

|
Activity in the Group of Soviet Forces, Germany, hos been at a low level
|| since the May Day holidays. It now appears that the annual demonstrations in the i]
|| Letzlinger Heide area, normally conducted during May, were concluded on 28 April i

| and were more limited in scope than in previous years. We have as yet no Indications
| 98 to the reasons for this change. ASECRET)

ae a Sse aE soe an mn anon etn gre estas nt one UTE J

Critical Areas

1. Cuba:/ The recent delivery of from-10-to- 20 additlonal missile ‘canisters and * .

-asoclated components fo one SAM site In each of the three air defense sectors, os ora |
[r as to the Siguanea site on the Isle of Pines, Indicates that on-site support areas are \
being established in selected defense areas. We cannot exclude the possibility that
Lil

(| some of these sites may also have anil chosen for live practice firings during the the comir
\\ weeks. (SECRET) _
N

Both Soviet end Cuban propoganda t is now linking the US high-altitude
reconnaissance program to the exile raids by stating that the former provide detailed

information on Cuban military installations which is used in planning and executing
raids on Cuba. (CONFIDENTIAL)

"Vietnam: Viet “Cong ‘activities are e increasing again i in number and “severity \
(“after a 3 gredual three-week decline, with an emphasis on armed attacks in the Delta \
and the area around Saigon. In the north along the low coastal plain, Viet Cong actions
| Gontinue to consist principally of harassments and terrorism directed against the populace | ;
| in the New Rural Life Hamlets. The coastal railroad continues to be a spectal target ;
| for Viet Cong sobotage. (SECRET)

| We have noted several recent low-level reports indicating o possible bulldup! | i
| of Viet Cong forces in Tay Ninh Province, northwest of Saigon. Cambodian acquiesence ;

i in Viet Cong activity In Sray Rieng opposite the critical Tay Ninh orea will further /
| facilitate Communist operations there. (SECRET) | {
| Note is also taken that the sizeable concentration of Viet Cong forces In j '

\ Military Region V has experienced relatively | limited military commitment fo date. |
1 (SECRED) - Fae aoe MBE eT ii is =

Ea



T0P SECRET pee TSC-394-64

Hq.e
ClAltigg
WATCH REPORT ITE 4
of the RHAL USE gyn y
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE 3OARD
27 May 1964

Bloc International Developments

T

The USSR's general behavior on the international scene appears aimed
| at avoiding a direct confrontation with the US over current crises. Khrushchev's '
| recent remarks on the Issue of US overflights of Cuba are belligerent, and the

| Soviets have documented for the record a justification for a U-2 shootdown, but
at present this appears designed as pressure to deter the US from overflights. (SECRET) |

Sovtet Bloc Military Developments |

| The tempo of tratning within Bloc ground force elements in Eastern

‘Europe Is beginning to rise. Large-scale movements to the field for field training
exercises are now anticipated with the level of training increasing as the summer

training cycle gets under way. (SECRET)

1 ail Areas
t. Vietnam: There has been no discernible change in the pattern of Viet
‘Cong military activities. A few small-scale attacks have been reported recently,
but terrorism and road sabotage continue to predominate. (SECRET) |

Recent cerial photography of truck concentrations and traffic along
Route 12 in North Vietnam toward arog Laos suggests some increase inthe | |

I

|

southward flow of Communist personnel {tes from North Vietnam along |

[toute 12. (SECRET)
i

|

|

EnSEnEsEERGHESEEIRIC IBSEEEsEDRSEEEEE - ‘s
* \Conclusion eee
| | No Communist country Intends to Initiate direct military action Inthe =| | ~
Immediate future against the United States, Its overseas forces or its Allies.
(Fo eas |
|
=
i
i

2. Laos: Continuing Communist pressure will probably be directed against
'neutralist forces north of the Plaine des Jarres and uonpen to Indicate an attempt
=

TAD CCPDET


13-00000

‘ ‘TOP SECRET

i 27 May 1954

le ~ tovellminate the Kong Le troops from Route 7 and open the route westward. South —

|. of the Plaine des Jarres, the Pathet Lao also are continuing attacks against Meo

; _ guerrilla bases In an attempt to eliminate the major remaining source of opposition 1
to Communist control of Xieng Khouang Province. (SECRET) fe

\ There are reports of Communist movements in southern Laos which could
| Indicate preparations for action in the Attopeu and Saravane areas. (SECRET)

Net The Communist nations have laid the propaganda groundwork for a He

, | withdrawal of recognition from the Souvanna government by their repeated i |
' " statements that the coalition government is disintegrating, and Souphanouvong :

has reportedly threatened that the Communist nations may break relations with Hy

| ; Vientiane. (CONFIDENTIAL) |

| x The French call for the reconvening of the Geneva conference on \\s
: Laos, which was promptly endorsed by Moscow, has been followed by a proposal \ \
from Pelping that the conference be held in Cambodia In June. None of the \

proposals have acknowledged Souvanna's conditions for a conference or included it

_ | provisions for a cease-fire. All proposals, however, have been made tn such ¢ Hal

| context as to leave room for consideration of all Indochina as well as Laos. The |

| North Vietnamese and Pathet Lao attitudes toward a conference are not yet known.
(CONFIDENTIAL)

ieraerg aaa

2 ete ante

Dawe +

TAR eranrr


13-00000

TOP SECRET A.FNINDC, TSC-394- 64

Hq., USAF

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE 30ARD

No. 718 } 27 May 1964

‘Conclusion

\
| | staan |
i | No Communist country intends to initiate direct military action in the \-

| Immediate future a:

| inst the United States, its overseas forces or its Allies.
| oc ile

| Bloc International Developments
i}

| The USSR's general behavior on the international scene appears aimed i
| | at avoiding a direct confrontation with the US over current crises. Khrushchev's i>
| | recent remarks on the Issue of US overflights of Cuba are belligerent, and the
H | Soviets have documented for the record a justification for a U-2 shootdown, but

| at ae this Te ae as oe to deter the US from overflights. (SECRET)
{4

| Soviet Bloc Military Developments

|
|
|

The tempo of training within Bloc ground force elements in Eastern
| Europe is beginning to rise. Large-scale movements to the field for field training
| | exercises are now anticipated with the level of training increasing as the summer
fa | training cycle gets under way. (SECRET)
\

} | ene Areas

1,
\

Vietnam: There has been no discemible change in the pattern of Viet

| Cong military activities. A few small-scale attacks have been reported recently,
\but terrorism and road sabotage continue to predominate. (SECRET) |
|

1 |
H Recent aerial photography of truck concentrations and traffic along

| Route 12 in North Vietnam toward south-central Laos suggests some increase in the

‘southward flow of Com: personnel and/or co aad from pains vices along
‘Route 12. (SECRET) ' F PGA .

\2. Laos: Continuing Communist pressure will probably be directed against |
neutrollst forces north of the Plaine des Jarres and appears to indicate an attempt — a

ce

Ee A ROR

TAN CrAncT


13-00000

2 March 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

DCITIRV

FROM: Jd. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, HRP

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-23, Watch Reports of ‘the U.S.
Intelligence Board

1. We have reviewed the Watch reports provided
pursuant to referent request. Likewise an ARRB staff member
has also reviewed the documents.

2. Attached is the proposed ARRB memorandum concerning
what was search and what was found. In addition, the staff
member has proposed that those portions of the reports which
are not related to the Kennedy assassination be declared NBR
and redacted as the reports are processed for release by
HRP. Also attached is HRP’ memorandum in response to the
request.

3..° Kathy Dyer reviewed the ARRB draft memorandum on 24
February and passed on its content as unclassified. In
addition, Kathy agreed to a redaction process with respect
to the reports which would leave in the headings of all
paragraphs despite the redaction of the whole paragraph.

4. Would you please review both the ARRB and HRP
memoranda and concur with same or advise if changes need to
be made. In addition, do you have any problem with the plan
to leave in all paragraph headings?

5. Thank you for your assistance on this fe teeaes

(Mary bn) cabled barbe w MSO BARK: Sacd sh,

badd blbad of mFy Dyer eel fore Cmcbal Song

(Ze patel phe rhb be whale det net oud bake


13-00000
i jite 7
CIA ‘SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
2000

2 March 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: TT. Jeremy Gunn, Esq.
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, HRP

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-23, Watch Reports of the U.S.
Intelligence Board

1. This is responsive to subject request.

2. The Agency has made a concerted search of its ~
records for the records requested via CIA-IR-23. The
results of that- search are in the form of a number of Watch
Reports for the period 27 November 1963 through 27 May 1964.
The reports have been reviewed by a member of the ARRB staff
and a number of paragraphs were found which contained
information somewhat related to the assassination story.

3. The Agency has agreed to include the reports
within the materials being processed for release to the
National Archives. coe

4. Accordingly, it is believed that this request is

complete. If you have any questions about our handling of
the reports, please advise.

Jd. Barry Harrels:

”


13-00000

MEMORANDUM

March 3, 1998

To: Jeremy Gunn —
Executive Director
ce: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs Hike Le. Laveen

Special Assistant for Research and Review
Subject: CIA-IR-23 Watch Reports of the United States Intelligence Board

In response to ARRB’s informal request for additional information and records
CIA-IR-23, CIA has searched the records of the National Intelligence Program
Evaluation Staff (NIPE), including the United States Intelligence Board Watch Reports,
action memorandums, meeting minutes, and chronological files for the period January
1963 to May 1964 for information relating to the assassination of President John F.
Kennedy.

The search produced eight United States Intelligence Board Watch Reports from the
period 27 November 1963 to 27 May 1964. I have reviewed these eight documents
consisting of 14 pages and have marked portions of six reports as assassination records:
27 November 1963, 24 December 1963, 22 January 1964, 22 April 1964, 29 April 1964,
and 20 May 1964.

Like the President's Intelligence Checklist and the President's Daily Brief, these
documents cover multiple topics. I recommend that the portions of the document not
believed to be relevant to the Kennedy assassination be declared NBR and redacted.

”
Once the six marked reports have been included for processing as assassination records, .
this response is complete.

e:\combs\cia-ir23
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4


DRAFT %
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Memorandum DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
: RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
February 9, 1998 IN THIS DOCUMENT
To: Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director
ec: Bob Skwirot
CIA Coordinator
From: Michelle Combs

Special Assistant for Research and Review

Subject: CIA-IR-23 Watch Reports of the United States Intelligence Board ee

In response to informal request CIA-IR-23, CIA has searched the records of the National

Intelligence Program Evaluation Staff (NIPE), including the United States Intelligen:
Board Watch Reports, action memorandums, meeting minutes, and chronological.
for the period January 1963 to May 1964 for information relating to the assassii
President John F. Kennedy.

The search produced eight United ‘Stated int igence : Board’ ‘Watdl Rep orts'‘from
period 27 November 1963 - 27 May 1964. I have reviewed these. eight documents,
consisting of 14 pages, and have marked portions of six reports as assassination
27 November 1963, 24 December 1963, ce aes 1964, 22 April 1964, 29 April’
and 20 May 1964.

Like the President’s Intelligence: Cheéklist: and the President’s Daily Brief,
documents cover multiple topics. Trecommenid that the portions of the docum
deemed related to the Kennedy assassination be declared NBR and redacted.

Once the six marked reports have been ificluded for processing as assassination records
this response is complete. ra

DRAFT



3-00Q00

re Cif LR-AaB

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

1,» & S
‘fey yo"

December 18, 1997 CIA HAS NO 08, JECTION TO
icine DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

. John Pereira RELEASE OF Cia INFORMA
Chief INTHIS DocuMENT — VATION
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for
Additional Information and Records 9

Dear John:

Tam writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board's requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to

” several requests, and. many others J shave been answered in part, a significant number of -:..-— -—-

requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only tp have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April 1/1998.) :

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the’
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

‘As identified more fully below, the issues are: CLA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE

‘Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

Boarno Mémseas: John A. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff » Kermit £. Hall « William L. Joyce * Anna K. Nelson


13-00000

a

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 12

“CIA-IR-22 “A” File on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison. ~

In July 1997, the ARRB staff: was shown an “A” file on Clay Shaw which pre-
dated a 201 file. We were also told that an “A” file on Jim Garrison also existed.
The Shaw file was declared to be an assassination record and it was our
understanding that both files were to be sent to HRG for processing. We have
not yet received confirmation from HRG that the files are in process as
assassination records.

.CIA-IR-23 Watch Committee Files.
In his memoirs, George Ball reports that upon first hearing of the shots in Dallas
he called DCI John McCone and asked him to activate the Watch Committee.
McCone replied that he already had. The Review Board requests the files of the
Watch Committee for the period January 1963-May 1964.

CIA-IR-24 Defector File.

The ARRB staff has identified documents on Léé Harvey Oswald fromthe Office >’
of Security’s “Defector File.” It is our understanding that these documents are ~
now being processed as assassination records. No further tasking on this subject
is anticipated. »

CIA-IR-25 Zapruder Film.

The Board has requested any and all records, not previously located in the’... {
Sequestered Collection, on any handling by the CIA of the Zapruder film: In’ ° i
particular, we are interested in any records of NPIC’s handling of the Zapruder .
film or copies of the Zapruder film in November and December 1963. Any log:
books or indexes which would indicate the individuals involved in the
processing and handling of any assassination films should be included in this
request.

CIA-IR-26 Jordan James Pfuntner.

The Review Board requested that a complete search for any records on this
individual be undertaken, including a search of the Interagency Source Register
The ARRB staff provided HRG with additional identification data on this
individual. The Review Board seeks a full and accurate formal response to this
