2dd.ts0l comments

W351 [peoos7! |

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Circle f epprepriste! 120 CHARACTERS!

Day] montn | veaw |

oS 477-7 Boot hl 15, 777-0093 (fenmuse)|H! [don |e
J

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS!

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERS!

Defsexrity Analysis Grove |c/Sewrity Anelysis Group

Tunes [wand EAD io GuCTENT [ne rERnED ev ie SancTwe [G00 7 [oa FILE NUMBER Go CHARACTERR:

S| pate |

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS!

Geraid Potnc Hemmi SF* yng 209

tree OATE
oF roa oF
Review review

Determinations:

Release in full text E, Sustain initial denial in toto
Release in sanitized form F. Sustain initial release of
Deny in toto of sanitized version

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8) G. Release additional information

Ceordinate with (Specify in line 8)

JOEFER DEASION TO 110 GuARACTES ICOORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS) | CLRSs.
hb. Holmes

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

SY ron . £.0, 12356

ei
81 82 B2 64 BS BG BTC ea aK

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

LI.

Y FOIA PR
1. Classification oa) oa)
«2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government (b) (3) G)Q)
Se 3 pertaining to a liaison ©) G)
relationship with a Foreign Government
& 4. Informé¥ién which would/could identify the )3) GG)
source
5. Information pertaining to a source (b) (3) Gm
3 6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods (3) G)
_2= 7. Location of CIA overseas installation ()) (3) GG)
10 8. Location of unacknowledged domestic (6) (3) GG) @)
installat:
% 9. Namet'“4E’CIA employee _¢ (3) Gd
10. File number 5 tb) (3)
11. Pseudonym (3) G) CD)
12. Cryptonym (b) (3) Ga
“© 13. Internal organizational data (3) GG)
14, Name of an FBI agent (b) (7) (c) (5) QD
15. FBI file number (2) G) a)
16. Privacy of other individual (b) (6) (b)
17. Does not pertain to request
2S 19. Other (Specify in line 11)
S

n

WEWATORE/OF FICE OF 00 COUPONENT REVIERING OFFICER

-#Y Ca)

Sen rubs o 20643
oYon Funene Hall, Howord Bovis,

Widhard Hotheok. Duydicater Lv docs Mo, 4 370

5 4 Che
jong Th

| 0643, 01018 # orc Copy, ——_ iter



13-90000

ta
i] CONF

Ba] Yon jTtat {X} SeCRET
ROUTING. AND, RECORD SHEET
ch omen _
HENMING, Gerald Patrick
_ wal extension, | NO. ™
Jerry G. Brown i 429 229
Deputy Chicf L eee
Security Analysis Group | 4400 11 June 1976
Cire deunnaton, room mmber, ord Dare i
1 opricer’s | COMMENTS (Number each comment te thew fom whom
rw Townes} MAS | SRST Tas Se Clo Un cen com}
¢/SAG pe ern 4 7%
aes Lipe2e 2e| OPE goat
Cf EPS/ PS/ | wis a\ > S Ente ngetlee om bog,
; : roford @ FO/- bik
My bee ybcle
2 ke Ieee 7 “
; | az ¢
Pa [sry ake
3
b
E T
j 1
i
SVQ Mtnes" CO] secret =] conFpeNTIAL «= REEAMAY

CURRSIFICATION REVIEW Eg, 12356
ConouereD ow gee ten
CL REVIEW BY 2109247 __
 DECL C DOWNGR TO ____
REVW ON

CITATION

st 00919 -

FULL TEXT COPY = DO NUL RELEASE


13-0000 .

11 June 1976

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT : HEMMING, Gerald Patrick
SF#429 229 .

1. On 9 June 1969 _ puiousecomaennnes
contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation
Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.
was referred to the writer, who is.holding the HEMMING
file. When contacted the writer, _. advised that he
is the action officer for a cable from t' Station)
reporting an assassination plot on the life-oF President
LAUGERUD of Guatemala. was unfamiliar with the case of
Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet r i the 201 file
on HEMMING, ____=sswas requested to alert and JMWAVE
to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the i i
copy of the report coming in from the

2. ____jprovided the writer with a copy of the cable,
CIN 944357, _ __ dated 8 June 1976),
which is attached.-In substance, the cable reflects that
circa 8 June 1976 a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of
Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the | Stai
a written report, and a detailed briefing, concerning a plot
to assassinate President LAUGERUD. According to the informa-
tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September
1975; however,’ one of the major conspirators, Jorge Antonio
"Cokie" ZIMERI. Sa left Guatemala in- August -1975-as a result-
of an attack upodhis, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living
in Miami since August 1975.

3. According to the report, the National Liberation
Movement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot
and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,
Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HEMMING brothers
assisted ZIMERI-“in acquiring arms, among other things, which
were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft. The report also
claims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials
in Miami and New Orleans.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 0635994



Uy wa sg Cow

NOTE: The Station, also included
- information the ier Station; had received
from ~ on 8 June, .____s said that he
had oéén providing information on ZIMERI to the
Guatemalan government for the past six months-or
so. He claimed that two Americans were involved
with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service
in Miami. ____. did not mention names but
described oné of the-Americans as about six feet
four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4, The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends
= with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States? °

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United
States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

a ce. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the
United States for possible use in
Guatemala?

: d. Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

ee tial treatment by U. S$, authorities which
permit him to carry firearms, as well as
to purchase arms and ammunition for
shipment to Guatemala?

e. Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?
S. On 19 June 1976 { _ advised
that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

wt Department.

: 6. Office of Security indices-are negative in pertinent:
variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

7. From the name, physical description, activity, and
alleged employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is identical with the subject of Office of Security file ~~ -
429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,
who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as
of Nay 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation
company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in
Miami, Florida.



G

8. Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,
the Office of Security Miami Field Offic: 0)
numcrous occasions since at t

had claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there has been.

none. The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such
affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration, Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

aka: Frank FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who also has a
long-time record of falsely claiming Agency affiliation. In

the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,
joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter
claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause. Soon thereafter,
STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and
Central American activities which he named the International |
Anti-Communist Brigade. A.reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"
(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was
named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald
Patrick HEMMING.

9. For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of
a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot
involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant
memorandum, to wit: a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June
1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;
and. an extract from a book published in early 1976 written by
Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN. The book Coup d'etat
in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John’F. Kennedy
is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency
with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the major
links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,
Jr, to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene
HALL, Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-
nental Penetration Force. Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide
publicit#i¥in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"
GARRISONEalleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration
Force). was: involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY
and thatiembers of this unit were connected with CIA, GARRISON
shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is
interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and
another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

‘y G. Brown
ty Chief
Security Analysis Group

Atts



CJ cone’ iithat Gi secret
, ROUTING AND. RECORD SHEET —

HENMING, Gerald Patrick

T eration, | 6.
Jerry G. Brown H 429 229
Doputy Chicf nt

Security Analysis Group (4400 11 June 1976
~T

Oc designation, room mumbw, od oare

1 orricen's | COMMENTS (Number each comment to thes fram whom
=} INMALS whom. Orow 0 line acrots column acter wach comment
receven | tonwatoeo: ° =

c/sas Mfc 76\f22 ep Ese ra
SLOPE, PSY _| iss a\ = kat Ean cram Ol ney:

- LFS - :
L Daa
3. . 7

pa fsa yak, As

| i
STORES") seczeT CONFIDENTIAL] NTERNAL,

ane - = ——



11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT : HEMMING, Gerald Patrick
SF#429 229

1. On 9 June 1969 oo
contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation
Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

. was referred ‘to the writer, who is holding the HENNING
file. When contacted the writer, __ advised that he
is the action officer for a cable from the Station
reporting an assassination plot on the life o Teside
LAUGERUD of Guatemala. ___. was unfamiliar with the case of
Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet revi the 201 file
on HEMMING. ____ was requested to alert _ and JMWVAVE
to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a
copy of the report coming in from the

rovided the writ

2. 2 with a copy of the cable
(IN 944357, dated 8 June 1976),
which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that
circa 8 June 1976 a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of
Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the Stat
a written report, and a detailed briefing, concerning a plo
to assassinate President LAUGERUD. According to the informa-
tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September
1975; however,’ one of the major conspirators, Jorge Antonio
"Cokie, ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala in August 1975 as a result
of an ack uponjhis, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living
in Mia@mi* since August 1975.

aut

-E) According to the report, the National Liberation
Movement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot
and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,
Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HENMING brothers
assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which
were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft. The report also
claims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials
in Miami and New Orleans.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 0635994

scot’)



13:

NOTE: The| Jalso included
information thé (Chiét_o! tion) had received
from ~ -—on 8 June. ________ said that he
had oéén providing information on ZIMERI to the
Guatemalan government for the past six months or
so. He claimed that two Americans were involved
with ZIMERI, one.of them who runs a guard service
in Miami. ____) did not mention names but
described oné of the Americans as about six feet
four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends
with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United
States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the
United States for possible use in
Guatemala?

d. Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-
tial treatment by U. S. authorities which
permit him to carry firearms, as well as
to purchase arms and ammunition for
shipment to’ Guatemala?

e. Any information on Robert and Gerald
HEMMING?

5. On 19 June 1976: _ _ ~~ advised
that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State
Depar tiie it

6:n-Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent
variation’ of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HENMING.

7. From the name, physical description, activity, and
alleged employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is identical with the subject of Office of Security file
429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,
who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as
of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation
company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Secutity--no record) in
Miami, Florida.



ai

8. Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,
the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JMWAVI
3 Gccasions since at least the early 1965's, Frey
Kad claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there has been
none, The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such
affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services
to the Drug Enforcement Administration. Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),
aka: Frank FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who also has a
long-time record of falsely claiming Agency affiliation. In
the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,
joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter
Claiming disillusionment with | ithe CASTRO cause. Soon thereafter,
STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and
Central American activities which he named the International
Anti-Communist Brigade. A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"
(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was
named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald
Patrick HEMMING. Hl

Nuke VO:

9. For an appreciation jof the possible ramifications of
a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot
involving HENMING, you are referred to attachments to instant
memorandum, to wit: a memorandum by the writer dated 10 Junc
1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;
and an extract from a book published in early 1976 written by
Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN. The book Coup d'etat
in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John’ F. Kennedy
is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency
with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the major
links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,
Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene
HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-
nental Penetration Force. Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide
publicity in ‘1967 when New Orleans District: Attorney "Jim"
GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration
Force) was involved-in the assassination of: President. KENNEDY
and that members of this unit were connected with CIA, GARRISON
shortly thereafter dropped his intérest in HALL, but it is
interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and
another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

erty G. Brown

Atts

