# 104-10182-10072

## Page 1

104-10182-10072

URN CARAT MATED

HUSH SHACT CURITTEN: ASSASSICATIOTS STORE HEROES

TILL TITLE ASIER/OL:

201-259910

LIVingStON. WERBEL

111

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATINY:

Iai: 2024 The For 22

R00':

DELETIONS, IF AVY: CUSAN ARENCY SERES (FiLETE.)

DATE

TAN:

DECEIVED PETURNED

(PRINT SA'B)

3/3/78|3/3/78 DAN HArdwAY

STINATURE OF

REVIETISG OFFICIAL

Dan Hardway.

SO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROT THIS FILE.

201-259910

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

•nine fliadin

INFORMATION REQUEST

SLEJECT OR OTHER INDIVIDIAL INDEXED IN THIS DOSSIER IS INVOLVED IN A REQUEST

UNDER

(CHECK ONE)

PRIVACY ACT

FOLA

OGC/OLC

OTHER (Specify nature of

request under remarks)

SUBJECT OF REQUEST:

FILE NO.

MITCHELL LIANGATN WERBELL TD

DOCUMENT SYMBOL, NO. &DATE 11l reques is on orner man subiner of 2011

201-259910

REQUEST NO.:

P76-78

DATE COMPLETED

APRIL 1977

DATE APPEALED (le applicable)

REMARKS

DO NOT FILE ABOVE THIS FORM

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM FROM THIS FILE

1858 3955

CONFIDENTIAL.

CL OY: 009818

---

## Page 3

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGRALCETE

¿ ya

0 ÷

Too

0

CHASE

DO/E733

22-4.

SECRET

150008 1404 DIATON

toNy. +048 0109280

0220042

CIA

960121

COME: /CA 8

DISSEM BY: C4

BATHE PO

PER SOR

0003, 000/00

TO: " FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//ATTN: R K MCHARGUE/GENERAL

#132

INVESTIGATIVE SENDIVISION. Y

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS Y

CIN-S26/00302-77 Y

SUBJECT: BOMBING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNIJED STATES:

NAME TRACE, MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III Y

REF: FBI CABLE REQUEST

DATED 14 JANUARY 1977.Y

•I• THE FILES OF ¡HIS AGENCY CONTAIN CONDIDERAGLE INFORMATION ON

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III, BORN & MARCH I9L8 IN PHILADELPHIA.

PENNSYLVANIA. THE MAJORITY OF THE INFORMATION WAS FURNISHED BY YOUR

BUREAU. THIS AGENCY PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED THE FBI WITH INFORMATION ON

WERBELL UNDER CSCI-3/773327 OF 24 OCTOBER 2962, SUBJECT WERBELL.

MITCHELL L.I AND CSCI-316/02323-69 OF 27 JUNE 1969, SUBJECT WERDELL.

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON III. IN ADDITION, THIS AGENCY FURNISHED YOUR

BGEANGUREAU WITH MEMORANDA CONCERNING SUBJECT MITCHELL LIVINGSTON

WERBELL III DATED 27 JUNE 1974. 81 AUGUST 1974, 9 AUGUST $1974, AND

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

ERT:

€ ?

IMPDET

---

## Page 4

OUTGOING MESSAGE

так

FAg

000

OMF

0

BSECRET

AHOUTO INTOLATEM

• CONF:

0

0

0

2

CIA

INFO:. FILI

980121

DISSEM BY:

SO ANGER

ASTURE TD

PER

0 31s

12 AUGUST 1974: V

2. VERBELL HAS NEVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY THIS MAGENCY NOR DOES M

THE AGENCY HAVE ANY OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN HIM: : WERBELL WAS A

COMMISSIONED OFFICER WITH THÉ OSS DURING WORLD WAR II AND SERVED IN

THE CHINA-BURMA-INDIA THEATRE: IN AUGUST OF 1959: THIS AGENCY MOBOTAGOD

CONSIDERED LSING WERBELL AS A SOURCE OF INFORMATION ON REVOLUTIONARY

ACTIVITIES IN THE CARIBBEAN AREA: PARTICULARLY CUBA, BUT TERMINATED

ITS CONSIDERATION OF HIS POSSIBLE USE IN OCTOBER 19598 WHEN IT WIS

DETERMINED THAT HIS INFORMATION WAS OF LITTLE VALUE AND IT WAS

SUSPECTED THAT HE WOULD USE THEPROPOSED CONNECTION WITH THE AGENCY TO

HIS

PROMOTE/ PERSONAL INTERESTS. y

3. DURING AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER 1962 REPORTING ON WERBELL REVEALED

THAT HE VISITED SEVERAL CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES AND APPEARED TO BE

CONTACTING OFFICIALS OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF GUATEMALA: NICARAGUA AND

EL SALVADOR FOR THE PURPOSE OF OBTAINING RECOGNITION OF DU"DE FACTO"

CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE CALLED THE "UNITED ORGANIZATION FOR THE

LIBERATION OF CUBA:": IN DISCUSSIONS WITH NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT

REPRESENTATIVES, WERBELL CLAIMED THE PROPOSED. CUBAN EXILE GOVERNMENT

DATE:

091G:

UNIT:

EXT:

F.

E

→ detent f

IMPDET

-v.

---

## Page 5

OUTGOING:

MESSAGE

#GRAL CRATERUSEONLY

0

D

SECRET

.0

nand

3

DE

DATA THAN BECA

CIA

•DISSEM GY:

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

980121

• D

PER

HAD THE SUPPORT OF NINETY SEPARATE CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATIONS AND

166:000 CUBAN EXILES. HE ALLEGEDLY OFFERED À NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT

OFFICIAL SCREECISE! $100,000 TO OBTAIN THAT GOVERNMENT'S RECOGNITION a

OF THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE. Y

S. "IN DECEMBER 2965, WERBELL SPOKE TO A MIAMI CONTACT OF THIS

AGENCY AND TOLD HIM THAT HE AND SIX CUBAN EXILES IN THE UNITED STATES

HAD ORGANIZED À GROUP, INCLUDING APPROXIMATELY TUENTY CUBANS INSIDE

CUBA, TO PERFORM A COMMANDO OPERATION IN CUBA IN EARLY JAYUARY 1966:

THEIR PRIMARY MISSION WAS THE ASSASSINATION OF CUBAN PREMIER FIDEL

CASTRO, UITH-THE SECONDARY MISSION BEING THAT OF BLOWING UP THE POWER

GENERATORS THAT SUPPLY THE ELECTRICITY TO HAVANA: WERBELL, AT THE ..

TIME, STATED THAT HE WAS TRYING TO GET THE "GREEN LIGHT» FROM THE CIA

TO PROCEED WITH THE MISSION, AND INFERRED THAT THE MISSION WOULD BE

ABORTED IF SUCH APPROVAL WAS NOT OBTAINED. ENOTE: THIS AGENCY WAS

IN AND BNDEAVOR.)

NOT IN CONTACT WITH WERBELLODD IN ANY WAY UHATSOEVERAY

b. IN EARLY 1969 WERBELL WAS IN THAILAND REFRESENTING HIMSELF AS

VICE PRESIDENT OF SIONICS, INC. OF ATLANTA, GEORGIA. HE IDESCRIBED

HIMSELF AS A COUNTERINSURGENCY EXPERT, CLAIMED TO BE A RETIRED.

DATE:

041G:

UNIT:

EXT:

cratinkar: +1 0500-6818

AUTHENTICATES ORDER

IMPDET

r.:

RY n,2003

---

## Page 6

OUTGOING MESSAGE

D

SCO CONTIRUSEON

0

mate

anse

4

SECRET

CIA

CONF:

INFO: FILE.

980121

0

DISSEN BY:

0

PER

COLONEL, AND INTRODUCED HIMSELF AT À LOCAL NIGHTCLUB AS THE CHIEF OF

006699T

CIA IN THAILAND. INOTE: WERBELL. WAS

THE CIA CHIEF OF STATION IN

THAILAND NOR CASTE AFFILIATED WITH CIA IN ANY WAY. WERBELL

ATTEMPTED TO SELL EXOTIC WEAPONS TO THE THAIS AND TO TRAIN THEM IN

-. COUNTERINSURGENCY WARFARE. Y

•7=

WERBELL ALLEGEDLY OPERATES THROUGH A NUMBER OF FRONT

BUSINESSES, ONE OF WHICH IS CALLED THE CENTRAL INFORMATION AGENCY U

(CIAS. IN SOME OF HIS DEALINGS WERBELL BROADLY HINTS THAT HE HAS

CONNECTIONS WITH THIS AGENCY. Y

8.. THIS AGENCY HAS INFORMATION PI::..

LaRG It SOLE OF THE

TYPES OF DEADORY THAT CUNSARMERAELL PURPORTS TO SER BRES SLIPPIN

•taline DE 150lsco dier

• TO YOUR BABUADREUSEN LERSOUSSIORS

INSTE ASYAFURT

CHARDE

JEE. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM -

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E-O. 1L6S2 EXEMPTION CATEGORY

SB

(200).

IMPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATIONN

DATE:

}

FERRUARY 1977

TULADE NEECAP

ORIG:'

UNIT:

EXT:

C/LA/SB/CH

1471

finitial

CIPCSILIN

CILA/COG/OPS - WM. DEVINE

(IN DRAFT)

50G/6/M55-

1. 101.916

is oriente

PD SCALA

iri in.

E

IMPOET

---

## Page 7

005-77-070-9

1 February 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

ATTENTION.

: Associate Deputy Director for Operations

FROM

: Walter T. Lloyd

Associate General Counsel

SUBJECT

: Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

I: - As you are aware, on the instruction of United States

District Judge Peter Fay (Miami, Florida Division), incident to

the Drug Enforcement Administration's prosecution of Subject

for conspiracy to import and distribute multi-ton loads of

marijuana, the undersigned made a detailed review of the files

of this Agency concerning Subject in August 1976. This exami-

nation was to ascertain any data that ran to Werbell's guilt or

innocence of the offense charged and any other data reflecting the

nature of the relationship between Werbell and the U.S. Government..

This latter requirement was grounded on the Court's view that

Werbell's voluntary reporting to the Agency and any government

condonation of his activities might be exculpatory in the eyes of the

jury.

2. In response, we reviewed the files, identified Agericy

contacts with Subject and prepared to affidavits: one regarding

non-employment by Mr. B. DeFelice and the second regarding

Werbell's relationship to the Agency by the undersigned. Copies

are attached. During the trial the first affidavit was shown to

counsel for Werbell by DEA counsel, Mir. Sam Sheres, at which

point defendant's counsel stipulated that lerbell was never a

formal employee of the Central Intelligence Agency. Sheres

subsequently returned the affidavits to the undarsigned at the

conclusion of the trial.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY: 059605

---

## Page 8

3: Regarding the relationship of Herbell to the Agency, as

approved by the Deputy Director, the undersigned appeared before

Judge Fay in his chambers on 31 August and under oath answered

questions of the Court concerning lerbell. A copy of the transcript

of that proceeding is attached. You will note that judge Fay requested

that all pertinent government records be mace arailable to the Court

for its inspection. Accordingly, copies of Ageney files were reproduced.

culled for "Brady-type" documents, excised to protect sources and

methods under the "SHiP case criteria" and reviewed and approved by

Assistant DD/O on the evening of l September.

These processed

documents were then handcarried to Miami by the undersigned on

2 September.

4. The undersigned advised Judge Fay at 0830 hours on

2 September that I had in my possession copies of all of the Agency

files on Werbel', had culled them as to possible "Brady" documents

and was prepared to review them with the Judge at his convenience.

He was on the bench with a tight schedule and asked that the possible

Erady documents first be reviewed by Karen Atkinson, the principal

counsel for the prosecution. The undersigned subsequently briefed

Atkinson on the nature of data in the possible Brady documents. This

resulted in a significant redurtion in the number of possibles. The

undersigned gave Atkinson copies of the four unclassified OGC

documents related to the DOD revocation of Werbell's security clearance

in 1971. In addition, Office of Security documents edited and approved

for release to Werbell under his Freedom of Information and Privacy

Act reques (Tabs Aand B of OS response), consisting of media

publications and security investigative data, were also provided

Atkinson. Due to counsel for Werbell raising an issue on Werbell's

use of a boat named "Venus" belonging to CIA, a declassified copy

of the OS short investigative report outlining data concerning Werbell's

use of the Venus to transport arms was also provided Atkinson. The

related OS Headquarters assignment document was not provided.

Related DDO documents on the ownership of Venus by the "JURE"

Cuban group were mentioned to Atkinson but rot rade available.

5. While the above documents were provided the Department of

Justice with the understanding they could be passed to Counsel for

lerbell due to subsequent events noted below, it is not certain that

this occurred. Specifically, the undersigned declined to release

additional "Brady" documents without consultation and instructions

---

## Page 9

from the Court. The requested mecting was put off by Judge Fay and

defendanto subsequently rested their case. The DOJ had little else

to add and the case went to the jury about noon on 3 Sept mber. All

the remaining copies of Agency ducuments were returned to Headquarters

by the undersigned the evoning of 3 September, On 4 Septunber the

ju'y returned a verdict of "not quilty." As a result, the bulk of

"Brady-type" Agency documents or Werbell was not provided to

counsel for Werbull and Judge Fay reviewed no Agency documents.

It should be noted all copies of documents taken to Miami were excised

in accord with the "SWP case criteria" and on return to Headquarters,

these were destroyed by the undersigned.

As a related matter, on 16 November Mr. Arthur Egbert

of the Interna! Security Division of the DEA contacted the undersigned

seeking background information on Werbell. The undersigned suggested

Egbeft first review the files of the FBI on Werbell as most of the data

we have is contained in FBI reports.

Should FBI data be insufficient

for his needs I süggested he seek access to our files in DO and Office

of Security via the normal DEA Department of Justice liaison channels.

Walk stagd

Walter T. Lloyd

Attachments:

(1) Affidavit - DeFelice

(2) Affidavit - Lloyd

(3) Transcript of Hearing of USDC for Southern District of Florida,

August 31, 1976.

CC:

Jerry Brown, SAG/OS, w/o atts

Ed Montgomery, LD/SRCH/DDO, w/o atts

w...

---

## Page 10

OGC 76-0344

21 Fobruary 1976

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOG

Chief, DCD

Chief, LA Division

SUBJECT

: Mitchell Livingston Werbel II!

111005

1. I was advised by the Justice Department on 23 February that

Werbel has been indicted and the trial is scheduled to begin on. 29 March

in Miami, Florida. The charges relate to importing and distributing

quantities of marijuana. With Werbel's propensity to raise his past

affiliations with the Agency, we can anticipate problems during this trial.

An additional problem is presented because l'erbel is defended by Edwin

Marger who was the defense attorney for John Hawk in the B-26 case in

Buffalo. New York in 1966. It was Edwin Marger who subpoenaed the ClA

General Counsel as a defense witness.

2. The Justice Department has received information that a person

either currently or formerly affiliated with the CIA has been participating

in lierbel's meetings with his attorney. It would be appreciated if all

addressees could review their holdings on Werbel and determine if there

is any validity to any recent contacts with him. I would urge that instruc-

tions be sent to Miami that no, repeat no, contact with Werbel take place

between now and the beginning of the trial.

It would be helpful if each addressee could prepare a summary

of the various contacts Werbel has had with ClA in the past. Please check

to see if you have any information on a Colonel Bayard who was killed irs

Allanta, Georgia during the summer of 1975. Bayard, reportedly an

associate of Werbel's, had previous contacts with the Agency. It would

be appreciated if your responses could he received by close of business

/ Johnk. Greaney

(chite General Counsel

3.44

---

## Page 11

OUTGOING

HIGHL CANTIN USECALY

MESSAGE

6

2

40 *

OMF 0

-0

0

0

0

SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

come:, P/OPS no:

FILE

DATA PIE SOUT

2702002

€rтg

WASHINGTON

634069

DISSEM BY: 45

PER

:0

TO:

FROM:

LA/CAR Y

SUBJECT E MITCHELL LIVINGSTONE bERBEL III Y

REF: UFPA-1860, 9 JUNE 1975 y

Be PLAN

L. MITCHELL LIVINGSTONE WERBEL III, WHO IS ONE OF THE PERSONS

MENTIONED IN THE DEA REPORT QUOTED IN THE REFERENCE, HAS BEEN

INDICTED ON CHARGES RELATING TO THE IMPORTATION AND DISTRIBUTION

OF MARIJUANA: Y

pict

1021:2 10 TRA

K.8 13. (2:3).

2• WHILE WE HAVE SO FAR UNCOVERED NO BKHERALD CONNECTION

WITH WERBEL, THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE HAS.

RECEIVED INFORMATION

THAT A PERSON EITHER CURRENTLY OR FORMERLY AFFILIATED WITH BHERALD

HAS BEEN PARTICIPATING IN WERBEL'S MEETINGS WITH HIS ATTORNEY. Y

3. FURTHERMORE, SINCE WERBEL HAS IMPLIED CAPPARENTLY FREQUENTLY}

• IN THEPAST THAT HE HAS HAD BKHERALD CONNECTION OR SUPPORT IN HIS

QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITIES: LARGELY INVOLVING ARMS AND AMMUNITION.

THERE IS A BOGARSBBBAA POSSIBILITY THAT HE MIGHT ATTEMPT IN ONE

HAY OR ANOTHER TO IMPLICATE BKHERALD •IN HIS CURRENT PROBLEM. WE

THEREFORE REQUEST THAT YOU COMPLETELY AVOID WERBEL OR ANYONE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EIT:

3,43

RECORD. COPY

12A835

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

27 tel-16

261-25-9910

E 2

•CL• BY:

IMPDET

• 0129130

---

## Page 12

OUTGOING MESSAGE

GORAL CONTE

OMF O

CLARIATIN

SUREE

R988108

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CoMf:

INFO: FILE

come

HASHINGTON

0

• DISSEM BY:

814069

0

РЕД

CLAIMING TO REPRESENT HIM SHOULD HE ATTENPT SOME CONTACT WITH THE

STATION.

4..

WILL RECEIVE SIMILAR INSTRUCTIONS-J Y

THE COS HAS BEEN INFORMED OF THE FOREGOING AND CONCURS. Y

S• FILE: 201-259930. E29109027e5

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

ЕКТ:

26 FEB 76

LA/CARE

1497

WILST

ACILAKAR

SECRET.

REPRODUCTION LATHER THAN THE ISSUING ETICES PROMIER

WILS

SCALINCAR

E 2.

• CL BY: 012913

---

## Page 13

GUTGOING

SIGHALEI

MESS.-Ga

53=2

OMF O

: 0

SECRET

MARBO: 4060040-9709

STAFF

CONF: EURE

2026 a

0

Reputaz

cITe

DIRECTOR

INFO:

'FILE

0

15 E62,

110ß5

780309

DiSSEM Br: 45

вативь во

TPES

TO:

INFO

O in onto

KEYUAY FORRES

REFS: A.

lIN 7584651 EBEING RELAYED TO

B. DIRECTOR 769406 NA

DIRECTOR 670514 O/NOT HEEDED

PRIOR TO RECEIPT REF A, HOS ADVISED BY SECRET SERVICE THAT

THERE HAD BEEN NO FURTHER DEVELOPMENTS IN REF B CASE CONCERNING

EMMANUEL KASSELAKIS AND STAVROS SYKOPETRITIS AND THAT KASSELAKISE

STORY NOW CONSIDIRED TO BE BOGUS. SECRET SERVICE FURTHER ADVISED THAT

KASSELAKIS PROVIDED OTHER INFORMATION WHICH ALSO CONSIDERED SUSPECT

CONCERNING ARMS TRANSEACTIONS AND THAT THIS INFORMATION PASSED TO NEU

YORK BASE• SECRET SERVICE SUSSEQUENTLY CONFIRMED TIlAT REF A INFORM-

ATION WAS RECEIVED FROM KASSELAKIS. Y

2. UNABLE TO IDENTIFY GEORGE STRATOS. Y

3. FOR

WEEGLER IS NI

R IS MITCHELL L. VERMBELL $201-

2599103 OF REF C.Y

4. SAMUEL SCRIVENER JR., WASHINGTON ATTORNEY, EMPLOYED BY

BKHERALD IN EARLY 1950'S AS CONSULTANT. Y

DATE:

UNIT:

EXT:

351210

12.222 0:28128

-.St

GRET

3.42

REPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUIPIG OFTICE IS PROMIC ILO

IN?DET

CL: BY: 060757

---

## Page 14

SUICOLAG MESSAGE

cos

8600

OMP

0

CHA: D 4779

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

D

0

0

cha Tel. Penig e

0

DIRECTOR

INFO: FILE

0

т3.«

280.389

5. ENABLE TO IDENTIFY DOMINICAN COMPANY-Y

2731-257910;

6. FILE:

202-889547; X REF 203-060338- E2 IMPDET.r

DISSEM BY:

PER

anu!

DATE:

ORIG:

Wirit:

EXT:

ISRECENGER 1975

EIGC

VAMW

144)

N-?.

illaden

C/FR/2

OPS/LSA/IDEIN SUBSTANCES

E/EXOCIN SUBSTANCES

3,-17

carpan

• REPRODUCTION AY OPHIR THALTAL ISSUÃG C.FICE IS PROMIdiTIO

CH/EIGC

aLTE met A

E Z

POPDET

по. Nitit?

---

## Page 15

1-28 856. 9195

CABLE BIC DISSEMB

2.9

MASON /UNIT NOTIO

_ARLANSI COPY ISSUER SHOTTER

ACTICA UNIT

Eil 8

N

ACTiON "

T 584729

E1 4377

TOTAL COrNS 108 2:

SECRET

REPRODUC

BY OTHER PA

STAFF

V LPLAN, FRS, PS/EGa

014, L5110, cloPS,

55/5U.64

FAGE 01

TORIL216352: DEC 75

IN 758465

SECRET 4217592 DEC 75 STASE

CITE

TOU DIRECTORE

01-759 910

SOFT FOR

DO NOT DESTROY

KEYWAY FOR ES

1, LUCAL SECRET SERVICE REPORTS FOLLOHING FROM INFORMANT DEES-

TABLISHED RELIABILITY ONE SECHGE STRATOS, LOCAL GREEK-AMERICAN DRE

CHESTRA LEACER, VISITED GYPRIOTE AMBASSADOR DIMITRIOU IN HASHINGTON

CAO 29 NOV TO SOLICIT HIS WILLINGIESS PURCHASE 25 THOUSAND M-16 RIFLES

AT 5215 EACA i PRINSACTION TO EE CONSUMATED OUTSIDE U.S. DIMITRIOU

DECLINED ON GROUNDS PRICE BUT REQUESTED STRATOS SUMIT PROPOSAL FOR

MANUFACUTRE AND SALE OF MHISH-EGWERED MARK I AND 1I HAND GUNS".

WEAPONS WOULD BE MANUFACTURED EY DOMINICAN COMPANY, TELEPHONE NUMBER

532-1018 RFT 53É-1019, STRATOS AGREED WORK UP DETAILS.

ZO ADDITIORAL DETAILS FROVIDED BY INFORMANT: ONE OF NINE PART

NERS OF STRATUS IS ONE MITEM DESLER, WHO STRATOS CLAIMS IS ECAMER

BANERALD, STRATOS WASHINGTON ATTORNEY. IS SAM SCHRETUNER IPHOND,

TELEPHONE 82221 296-2950, STRATOS CLAIMED MOLO'S AND 462M-GO MACHINE

GUNS HE ALSO WISHES SELL REPRESENT UOS. ARMS LOST INCOCHINA.

3, SECRET SERVICE OFFICES LAND OF GREEK BACKGROUNDY REDGRES

STRATOS WAS CLOSE TO PAPADGECULES GOVERNMENT. AND NOTES THAT LARGE

SECRET

---

## Page 16

3.71:00 G. 8189

CABLÉ SEC DISSEN BY

PE SON/LAIT NOTIFIED_

ANYANCEER

A=: ION UMIT

MER'SONT

RF.

TOTAL COPIES

SEGRET

STAFF

miat

FiLE

vR

ACTION $

984:725

FACE 02-022

TORI R218352 DEC 73:

IN 756665

AMOUNTS OF U.S, ARMS WERE DISCOVERED MISSING FROM GREEK ARMORIES WHEN:

NEY GOVERNMENT TOCK INVENTORY IN 1974.

SO NO FILES EE IMPDES.

3.41

---

## Page 17

The Owner of Guns Seized

In 1974 Will Sell Them

-Mitchell I HerBell 3d co

Marieita has agrind to quit the

srms trade, which in the past

has frequenth, taroired him lo

intomational intrigue.

in a deal anted out yester.

day before: a Federal Judge. Mr.

WerBell agreed that he would

ins mine ine min elling

runs if the Government

lowed him to sell. $325,000

worth of arms srized by Fed-

erel agents last: December.

The guns, called "the largest

collection of private guns in the'

world"

by Mr.

WerBell

and;

Federal attomers include 2.000

machine guns and silencers.

Mr. WerBell said his com-

pany. Defense Sys ems Interna-le

tional, Inc., would continue "rois

do what we have always conel?

-serve this coun!n."

He said he and his song havela

„plans so sell radios.

equipment

and

electronict

miliary sup

plies not covered by the agree-s

ment

5-775

NTTIMES

3,

, 4/0

---

## Page 18

FBI.

CABLE

DATED:

25 JuNE 1975

SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON

WERBELL II WILLIAM MARTIN

BELL NEUTRALITY MATTERS-

GRENADA

---

## Page 19

FBI docurient datid & July 1975.

from Atlanta, Ga.

3 Newspaper Articles Appearing!"?

The Atlanta

Constilution forwarded.

---

## Page 20

Si Hal

=03897

iC: 3914942 JUN 75

34586

USPA +1 860

CRET

TELEPOUCH.

01S59TH N0:

FILE HO

DATE

FROM

UFPA -1860

220-11+11/17: 196-9-1

: 6 JUNE 1975

CHIEF, LATIN AMERICA DIVISION

ACTING CHIEF OF STATIONI

SUSJECT

DEA/MIAMI REPORT ON POSSIBLE PLOT.

TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT OF GRENACA

1, STATION HAS RECEIVED A REPORT FROM DE AMIAMI: ON A

POSSISLE PLOT TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT OF GRENADA,

STATION CONSIDERS THE REPORT SUSPECT BUT HAS SUGGESTED TO DEA

THAT SINCE FE! AND STATE DEPARTNENT HAVE AN INTEREST IN SOME

OF THE INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED IN THE REPORT THAT A COPY OF IT

85 MADE AVAILABLE TO THEM, STATION ALSO PASSED TO DEA A LIST

OF GUESTIONS FOR THEIR USE WHICH MIGHT ASSIST THEM IN OBTAINING

=URTHER DETÄILS ON THE PLOT AND HAS OFFERED TO PROVIDE THEM

MITM PERTINENT. INFORMATION THAT MIGHT COME TO OUA ATTENTION

TROUGH STATION SOURCES, CORRECT NAME OF THE PROMINENT

"TIREN OF GRENADA MENTIONED IN PARA 3 OF THE REPORT IS KEN

4! LNE.

SECRET

.3.31

C447

Innine

196-9-p

---

## Page 21

C

3:96,7

=$55

741008-23 06 15

2, FOLLUNING IS TEXT OF THE REPORT, DERMISS

SEC-5-75-5-253. OF A JUNE. SENT TO DEA HOS AND FIELD STATION

SALTIMURE AID ATLANTA: DEA NOS REQUESTED PASS TO CARACAS

REGION: • "SUBJECT:

MITCHELL L. WERBELL LII,, ET AL FILE NO.

G1-75-0105:

"IN THE COURSE OF DEVELOPING A MARIHUANA SMUGGLING

CONSPIRACY INVESTIGATION, MITCHELL LO MERGELLO TIÏ., ET AL.

G1-75-0105, THE MIAMI REGIONAL INTEILIGENCE UNIT HAS UNCOVERED

INFORMATION CONCERNING A PLAN TO OVERTHROW THE INDEPEN CENT

GOVERNPENT OF GRENADA,

"THE PLAN, AS QUTLINED SELOW, IS A COMPOSITE OF

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM ONE WILLIAM BELL, A DEFENDANT IN THE

SUBJECT INVESTIGATION, VIA HIS CONVERSATIONS HITH UNDERCOVER

AGENTS AND A COOPERATING INDIVIDUAL,

"THE PLAiS CALLS FOR THE LANDING OF 35 APMED MEN ON

GRENADA DURINO THE LATE EVENING HOURS OF A SATURDAY IN HID OR

LATE JULY 1975. THE

REVOLUTIONARIES WILL APPEAR TO EE SCOTTISH

MERCENARIES, SUT IN FACT WILL BE AMERICANS.

THE LANDING TIME

HILL COINCIDE WITH THE NORYAL SHUT DOGN TINE OF THE ISLAND'S

RADIO STATIONA THE PRIMARY O3 JECTIVES OF THE LANDING GROUP

SECRET

3.32

* 33535

UrPa-1555

---

## Page 22

--14:97

..=: 38

71919.2 5a:

75

BE THE SADICICOUUUNICATIONS EASILITIES. AIR

1'.=

SEA

PLATS. GELL WILL HEAD AN ASSAGSINATION SOURD WHICH

WILL 3E DIRECTED TO KILL ZA POLITICAL IND GIVERNMENT

FUNCTIONARIES, THE PLAN AUTICIPATES HAVING FULL CONTROL OF

THE ISLAND BY THE TIME THE ISLAND'S RADIO STATION WOULD

NORMALLY GO BACK ON THE AIR ON SUNDAY MORNING, THE COST

OF THIS OPERATION IS REPORTED TO BE 3 MILLION DOLLARS.

ONE KEN MILL OR MILLS (PHONETIC); A PROMINENT CITIZEN OF

GRENADA IS REPORTED TO HAVE CONTRIGUTED CRE HALF MILLION

...COLLARS TO THIS OPERATION, AND WILL BE PUT UP AS THE HEAD

OF THE NEW GOVERNMENT IF THE TAKEOVER IS SUCCESSFUL, BELL

STATES THAT HE WILL BE ASSUMING CONTROL OF THE ARMED FORCES

AND. POLICE AGENCIES OF THE NEX GOVERÜMENT, BELL IS BELIEVEO

•TO BE MANUFACTURING WEAPONS AND PARTS FOR HEAPONS, WITHOUT

SERIAL NUMBERS, FOR THE OPERATION AT DEFENSE WEAPONS

INTERNATIONAL ENGINEERING AND RESEARCH INC.O P.O, BOX 771

DEERFIELD BEACH, FLORIDA, HITHOUT THE KIOWLEDGE OF THE

FIFM'S MANAGEMENT, WESBELL'S FOLE IN THE OPERATION IS

UNK OWN AT. THIS TIME,

*HERBELLO MITCHELL LIVINGSTON DIL, DUITE MALE.

SECRET

* 34335

UFPI-1653

3.3)

---

## Page 23

SECRE

184:2%

E!÷:97

$ 34935

UF F21 959

10R:201÷002 Jun 75

¿ FORMER LODI OSS OFFICER, ECAN 3/8/18 AT

PHiLADELFHIA, PA.O

5FT. 6 112 INCHES TALL; 155 LBS.O BROWN

HA!R. BLUE EYES.

RUDDY COMPLEXTION, GRADUATE OF FORK UNION

MILITARY ACADEMY, RICHMOND. RA," AND THE CHARLES PRICE

SCHOOL OF JOURVALISM GEXTENSION OF THE USIVERSITY OF

PERNSYLVANIAD, AND

RESIDENT AT POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA.

HERBELL DOES NOT HAVE AN

§BI CRIMINAL RECORD, ALTHOUGH A

• 7/1/73 MIAMI HERALD TROPIC MAGAZINE ARTICLE REPORTED THAT HE

AND SEVEN OTHER PERSONS HAD BEEN INDICTED FOR CONSPIRACY TO.

: VIGLATE V.S. NEUTRALITY LANS, BUT THAT THE..CHARGES HERE.

DROPPED ON THE ORDERS OF THEN ATTORNEY GENERAL RAMSEY CLARK,

HIS INDICTMENT WAS REPORTEDLY THE RESULT OF HIS INVOLVEMENT

WITH A HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY GROUP DURING 1906, A 1974 ESCUISE

MAGAZINE ARTICLE DESCRIBES WERBELL'S INVOLVEMENT IN A COVERT

•POLITICAL MOVEMENT TO GAIN INDEPENDENCE FOR THE ISLAND OF

APACO. IN THE BAHAMAS, HERBELL IS ALLEGED TO BE A REGISTERED

DEALER ANDOR MANUFACTURER OF WEAPONS,

"BELL, WILLIAM MARTIN, WHITE MALE: SORI 6/27/28.

EST 2 INCHES TALLO 230 LES,, GRAY HAIR, NORTH CAROLINA DRIVERS'S

LICENSE RUMBER 2190095: RESIDING AT 4412 WATERBURY ROAD.

SECRET

3.37

---

## Page 24

5 c

<7.

21

F1*÷97

>16= 29

70 0: 17147 JUN. 75

SALEIGH, PORTH CAROLINA; BELIEVED TO DEAN EX-MARINE CORPS

PILOT AID ONIER OF THE MARINE REALTY AND DEVELOPMENT

CORPORATION. US ROUTE 1 - NORTHe RALEIGH. N.C.: BELL HAS BEEN

ARRESTED BY THE RALEIGY PD ON THE FOLLOWING CHARGES: CARRYING

* CONGEALED WEAPON AND DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE = 1973: AND

ISSUING A WORTHLESS CHECK - 1967,: BELL DOES NÖT HAVE AN FBI

CRIMINAL RECORD.

" IN APRIL: 1975, IN ALLEGED FINANCIAL CIFFICULTY

NERBELL CONTACTED AN MIAMI RIO COOPERATING INDIVIDUAL AND

REQUESTED THE C/L'S ASSISTANCE IN SMUGGLING MULTI-TON QUANTITIES

OF COLOMBIAN MARIHUANA INTO THE VIS, MIAMI RIO UAC AGENTS.

ACTING AS PILOTISMUGGLERS AND COLOMBIAN SOURCE OF SUPPLY, MAVE

BEEN CONDUCTING NEGOTIATIONS WITH HERBELL AND BELL CONCERNING

THE FINANCING, AIR SMUGGLING AND DISTRISUTION OF MARIHUANA.

OTHER INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN THE CONSPIRACY TO DATE ARE WALLY

GILLIS, BELIEVED TO BE SUBJECT OF NADDIS RECORD NUKÖER 121207.

AND A RICK STEVENS AND A WILLIAM JORDAN, WHITE MALES, 22'S;

NO ADDITIONAL iD DATA AVAILABLE AT THIS TIME,

"CONSPIRACY DNNVESTIGATION IS CONTINUING, ADDITIONAL.

INFORMATION RELATIVE TO NEUTRALITY WIOLATIONS WILL BE FORWARGED

SECRET

* 37506.

UPPA ÷1 369

3.J7

---

## Page 25

SECRET

TELEPOUCH

T. 276101

EIẠ497

PAGE 06-06

..TOR: 0914042 JUN 75

UPON RECEIPTS ONE UNG AGENT SPiLOTS HAS BEEN APPROACHED 9Y

BELL TO TAKE PART IN THE GRENADA OPERATION.

_BRIEFED VERBALLY CONCERNING GRENADA

INFORMATION THIS DATES A COPY OF THIS INFORMATION WILL SE

FURNISHED TU U.S, CUSTOMS, ATF• L

JAT MIAMI..

JOHN: A

LUND

JRO, REGIONAL DIRECTOR",

DISTRIBUTION;

3 - CALAD VIA TELEPOUCH

EZ, IMPDET.

• H

34585

UFPA -1860

SEGRET

3.3)

---

## Page 26

24 March 1975

NEMORANDUM FOR. THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Alleged Activities of Walter Mackem

week: of March 9, I lunched with Mr. Wesley

Dyckman is.a

former Agency staffer currently employed

by the Drug Enforcement Agency.

Durine the course of our lunch.

eón conversation, the name of Walter Mäckem came up.. Dyckman

told me that Mackem, a JOT classmate of ours, had been

fired.by

the Agency. According to Dyckman, Mackem is now employed in the

area as a private investigator.

In addition, accord-

Dyckman, Mackem is involved with a paramilitary activity

unnamed British source.

The activity, which

Dyckman referred

as "the new land project" seeks

to establish

shelter on one

of the out-islands of the Caribbean by

forcefully

taking over the island and establishing a government

is supposedly involved in paramilitary training

forces who

would participate in this paramilitary adventure

to Dyckman, the paramilitary training supposedly

place in Georgia not far from Atlanta.

no used da nate no foreher

This is the extent of my conversation with Dyckman on-the-

subject and I have no further information or details concern-

SE/PCH

Orig -

OS/SAG

•SE/SEC

meet

LA/SO

E2

CL

IMPDET

BY

017709

3. 3'0

SECRET

---

## Page 27

BIGMALCI

aros

OMF

SECRET

STAFF

0

1.0

32.%

0

aire not a sove

1917577

i. CITa

DIRECTOR

0

0

an eate

• MEANCE I

670534

PER

#

TO":

AJAJA

FORRES y

REF:

THIN 5I12141 Y

NO ADDITIONAL HOS TRACES ON EDGAR LEMMENS AND CO. OTHER

TIRLEMONT.

THAN CONFIRMATION THAT IT LICENSED DEALER OF ARMS LOCATED IN/PERIST-

BELGIUM AND THAT IT IMPORTED FROM NEW YORK TO BELGIUM A SILENT SUB-

MACHINE GUN WHICH LATER SHOWED UP IN SPAIN CONNECTED WITH BASQUE

ASSASSINATION. j

2: MICHELL L• WERBELL, III (201-259910} IS PARTNER OF DEFENSE

SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC. OF POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIANA LICENSED

ARMS DEALER. ME BORN & MAR 1918, PHILADELPHIA. HUS HAS LENGATEY

201 ON WERBELL WIIO HAS LONG HISTORY POPPING UP IN AREAS AND SITUATIONS

WHERE CAN MAKE FEW FAST BUCKS. HE CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS.

UHEELER-DEALER AND PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. ME OF OPERATIONAL

INTEREST IN MID-1959 WHEN BECAME INVOLVED WITH ANTI-CASTRO PLOTTERS

I: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND OFFERED PROVIDE BKHERALD WITH INFO ON

RÉVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES IN CARIBBEAN. HÉ GRANTED POA IN AUGUST

1959 BUT THIS CANCELLED OCTOBER 1959 WHEN HIS INFO PROVED BE OF

DATE:

ORIG:

UAIT:

EXT:

3.35

Millio

31!1

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED

E 2

CL BY:

IMPDET

SECRET

---

## Page 28

•ast

r00

OMF D

1:0,9006a9000.

0

0

EiTe

HADRAGO:

STAFF

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

670514

0

8008K

DISSEM BY:

0

PER

LITTLE VALUE AND IT SUSPECTED THAT HE USING BKHERALDA FUNDS TO

PROMOTE PERSONAL INTERESTS. EVER SINCE, BKHERALD HAS BEEN DIS-

CLAIMING WERBELL WHO HAS REPEATEDLY ATTEMPTED PROMOTE SELF AS REP

OF LNGUZZ AND BKHERALD.!"

SINCE MUCH OF BKHERALD INFO ON WERBELL

ORIGINATES LNERGO, WE SUGGEST LNERGO REP/NEU YORK PERFORM TRACE

THROUGH HIS OFFICIAL CHANNEL. CABOVE INFO MAY NOT BE PASSED FORETON

NATIONALS BECAUSE WERBELL WODUAL CITIZEN-S Y

ONLY TRACE ON MITCHELL WERBELL IV IS THAT HE ALSO INVOLVED

FATHER'S

IN/95B9988 ARMS BUSINESS TRADE. HE HAS HAD NO CONNECTION WITH

BKHERALD. Y

4. FILE: 201-918287, EZ IMPDET.N

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT

EXT

22 MARCH 1925

NE/ARN/I

1 31 elean

HILDASINO OUNCER

SEGRET

CNE/ARN. Felluchor

FR/@. 2.

CODADMATIDO OPSICARE

REPROOUCT'".¿ BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMITED

AUTHOVTICATIRO DEANERO

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 025268

FEATE

---

## Page 29

8.91 127G. Di76

CABLE BRE DIEBRU DO 15

FRRDONIUNIT NOTIANO_

TOTAL CORE 2 3 2

SECRET

ARYAYER COPI LUNARALOTILA

ACTION UNIT

NE10

ACPION&

FILE

VR

c/OPS

, 01/00.2

T 831008

E14365

PAGE 01

TORdEA1ODOZ MAR 7S

413352 MAR 75 STAFF

#EPRODUCTION HY OTHES THAN

IRBUING APPICE IS FHGNIDITRO

STAFF

IN 511214

$ E

A

CITE

PO! DIRECTOR.

AJAJA FORRES

REF A:

UND W 6325

. 8..

761473676)

1, SUBJ REFS, ALAAL-DIN AL-TAYYAR OF THE IRAQI MUN, IS STILL OF

CURRENT INTEREST TO FO! WHICH HAS HIM UNDER PERIODIC OBSERVATION.

TAYYAR HAS BEEN IN BAGHDAD ON HOLIDAY FOR PAST SEVERAL WEEKS AND FBI

HOPES MAXE OPERATIONAL APPROACH TO HIM SHORTLY AFTER HIS RETURN NEW

YORK IN NEXT WESK OR SO, DURING 25 FEB MEETING WITH FSI COUNTER

PARTS, TEMPOS AGAIN REITERATED BKHERALD INTEREST IN TAYYAR SAYING HE.

DEFINITELY WOULD LIKE CONTACT PAYYAR IF FOR SOME REASON FBI DECIDED.

NOP TO. FBI CONTACTS SAID MATTER WOULD BE RESOLVED ONE WAY OF ANOTHER

IN NEXT FEW WEEKS AND THEY WOULD ATTEMPT ASSIST TERPOS IN INE CONTACT

IF FBI GAVE PAYYAR UP.

2. F81 ALSO INFORMALLY ASKED FOR TRACES OF FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALSI

COMPANIES WHICH REF B CONTAGT OF PAYYAR PHILLIAM A PIK I A NO HAS

CONTACTED RE PURCHASING ARMS!

A, MITCHELL WEBELL, 111 AND IV

C

RET

;.

34

---

## Page 30

14-00000

1226925521902

Fee. 17.00195

==T9

8.91 444, 8194

CAOLE BIC DIST

MPER

PRABON/UNIT NOTIFINO

ARYANGE COSY LINURO SLOITER

ACTION UNIT

RF

FILE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

IBBLING OFFICE!

PHONIBITEE

STAFF

2Y.

AT_

VR

ACTION•

031008

:E1A365

PAGE 82-02

TORI0A1600Z MAR Y5

iN 5112id

DEFENSE SYSTEMS

POWDER SPRINGS GEORGIA.

LNERGO SOURCE SAID WERBELL EITHER OR SONS FORMERLY WORKED FOR

OKMERALD, ALSO MADE OFF THE CUFF REMARK THAT "DEFENSE SYSTEMS. COM

SOUNDED LIKE BIHERALD FRONT ORGANIZATIONS

CO. EDGAR LEMMENS AND COO

BELS JUM

FBI HAS-INFO-FROM BELGIUM-SECURITY THAT LEMMENS AND CO. IN

THE PAST HAS PROVIDED ARMS FOR THE IRA AND THE BASQUE INDEPENDENCE

MOVEMENT..

3. FILE 201-8918287. E2 IMPET

R

---

## Page 31

The Amazing

Now-Country Caper

by Andrew St. George

Capitalist revolution, the nitimate solution

or the first time in histors, investments to more to a secluded

the successful managerg of

farmhouse may fnd there & mea-

America's economy-its en-

sure of protection from

trepreneurs, financiers, mer.

random.

chandisers.

siolence-or he mar find, if real

investors-are

talking rebellion A kind of

trouble starts, that in his isolation

rebellion,

he's utterly defenseless.

anyway. There is no call

to

Unless, of course, he has plannes

subvert the

Republic, only to

abandon it. In increasing numbers,

ahead-as far ahead and as care-

America's, most affluent and active

fully as the criginaires of shat one

elites are threatening to withdraw

can only call, for the rument, the

their funds, their assets, ultimately

Abaco Plan (it remains to be seen

even themselves and their families

by evente, of course, shether the

from the centers of the U.S. eculi-

Abaco planners were as wise and

omb,

prescient as they were farsighted

shich many of them seem to

consider done

and careful).

The originators

Nicholas son

Holinian.

for.

the

the Abaco idea were the first to in:-

acerbie and preter-

naturally foresighted columnist of

plement the urge to abandon Amer.

The ilashington Post, found that in

ica sith a concrete design, includ-

ing a destination, provision for per-

some of mid-America's test execu-

tive clubs,

sonal and fnancial sifets, monetar!

"There is talk of buging

gold coins and keeping them in the

reirard. and even a Litogian socia!

office safe, of orning a piece of land

progrant. Though the men behind

to

Abace are nearly the opposite of

retreat

10

when

the

trouble

starts." The hero of the year's most

the

ronmune-seekerg

of

the

late

durable begt seller, Den Can Profit

Sixties and early Seventies, their

aujertives are much the same. They

his: Marry

From a Monetary Crisis. The quin.

Browne, is "Peter Panic.

seel a

way

out and

return tre

tessential American small insestor.

fundamental values, but their most

He is in fight from his own na-

fundamental value is the proposi-

tional economy. Transferring every

tion that each of them should be.

penny he

owns from L'S. invest-

many times a millionaire, untroli-

bled by inflation.

ments into Swiss banks and South

African suld stocks,

its the time you read this. the

Peter Panic

mon of Abaco

mas have accum-

practically doubles his weth front

1970 to

'73; then he is ready lo

plished the lind stages us their pee.

take the most important siege 8o

fran in which case you will have

find himself a secluded rural retreat

reall abort. them in the newspa

to

weather the nation's coming

pers or thes may have failer and

be in the process it

trubles.

regroupur.

But retreat whore? That's the

But lid like you in meet flier it !

basir problem none of there doin-

did at a lunch in Merlington, 1.C.

last May.

safety

grapples

with.

A seven-

ts-five-thousand-dollar-a.gear

man

who pulla up led, sterili and burn!

"C'ag 'Horer"" and let slipe thie angs

" Iris".

- 60

eSQUiRe: APRUARY / ÷ 7.5

Jo. sir! Not here in Duke Zei-

bert's place you don't: this well

bral Washington restaurant admits

no

ahimals.

Not even it thei're

weuring

shoes,

eights-dollar

Church's

Not even if thes happen to

ve the familiar old two-lessed war

hounds who were made immortal in

the

Shakespearea line,

and who

are being made fashionable again

this fear bo the success of Fred.

erick Forsoth's latest book, The

Drous of tar.

Here we are in 197%, murky,

angst-ridden, confusing old '71, and

with Forsith's novel a best seller,

hailed as "soon to be a inajor mog-

ic,"

deferentially

praised for its.

"panortorial acalises."

more

and

more people are lalking about "the

ngs of isar" as if they knew what

the phrase meant: an international

conspiracy of financiers and killer

commandos who wage mercerary

mini-wars in the quest for maxi.

paroffs. What nonsense! A drink at

Duke Leibert's polished bar will

Five us

¿ better sies of realits

than

Fred

Forsych's collectred

worlis.

Take Mister Mitchell Livingston

Merlie'l here, a ruddy, jovial, mous-

tachri chap.

sippirg

his propran-

dia! Tanquern martini estra dis.

It's abrious that if there were ang'-

think sloggy or lullicose about l'er.

Bell, he wouldn't le lunching where

he locat the head of the old intr

prize front corner fabir.

take the

Bull,

well-tailored

mall sitting need in Workall. lt is:

ing.

pirase:"

•Mas 1 hase

theo

sounds liar a patrician

---

## Page 32

landon clubman. And

thias's just

what he is: Kobert Hamilton, Far-

on of Delhaven and Stenton. a dis-

In fact, a gon look at the leg.

emlary Mitch Werßell-millionaire

firearms tycoon,

senturer, friend of dictators and

•C.I.A. agents.

lück nf small. rationa-and at the

seven men who

guests today reminds us that, in

straight out of a Forsith scripe:

the take over of Abai an action

that will allow these men

themselves and their money profit-

To be sure, any reiémblance to

popular fution stops shor: with the .

idea. Commando politics is

dead. It will no longer do to breaki

open a case of bonties hand pre

nades and storm the palace. In fact,

Abaco has no palace. What it does

hase is six to seven thousand native

inhabitants who lead lives ranging

stagnation to mute

thorities are nce supinsed to see.

had delivered a shipmort of blank

sursey foums. These poiling: slips,

devisal bi a prestigious L'S. opin-

lon-research firm, are to manio.

sentiment on Abaco in favor of in-

dependence not

• just

once.

but

weck by week, as W'erBeli's paywar

campaign unfolds.

Furthermore.

Wer Bell learned

this morning that a test sampling

focused on a single Abaro sellle-

ment, perhaps Marsh Harbour or

For Town, had been scheduled by

his agents on Abaco for the coming

wars demands, first of all, finesse.

weekend.

The organizers expeeted

To be conquered, Abaco inust be

to poll between sixty and sirty-fre

get together only to make

attäcked-that fundamental aspect

percent in favor of independence

of territorial expansion has not

an impressive score, reflecting the

*knoching off an

changed in four thousand jearg-

fuet that the covert political cam-

with the aid of World War II ma-

but in an age of psychological war-

paign of HerBell and. Co is in its

chine pistols laboriously concealed

fare, motivational research, sub

sixth month

in oil drums. W'erBell's world' is

different. A top executive of De.

fense Services International, Mili-

different. WerBell's first assault on

tary Armaments Corporation and

Abaco has been psychological." With

Sionics Inc., he designs and manu. great skill and ruthless persuasive-

erful and farsighted. Thre

ness, the citizens of Abaco are con-

are recugnized all over the world

vinced, step by step, that they must

become an independent nation; that

reer officers, all three recently re

arms obtainable. Having acquired

becoming an independent nation is

tired. from its clandestine sertices.

a taste for irregular warfare as an

the greatest, most rearding thing

branch, where

in the whole wide word; that it is

valuable experience in the manipu-

they, the citizenry of Alico,

HerBell is rumored tu have taken

lation, dismantling and rearranging

must urgently need and demand

of gorernments. John Muldoon, who

a hand in a long string of mini-

and fight for status as a self-gov-

WorBell's principal agent in

erning commonwealth.

Washington, has served as a PolAd

China Sce to the Caribbean and the

"I talked to the island for. almost

ma political adviser-in Vietnam

Mer iterranean. But W'erBell frowns

in hour this morning." HerBell re-

on : rais badinage.

especially with

fored. At Geibert's the table talk is

mostly about sastronomy tolas, in

part because the dill sobis and soft-

shell crabs are truly remarkable, in

part because the host at the neigh-

boring table is Clifton Daniel. the

around the table is watching him

got. the slips. They've alreads dis-

tributed half of them. They'll make

a one-spot run this weekend and see

huss they score. They think it'll be

sixty to sixty-five percent."

No translation is needed. Ax the

Hatergate tapes have demonstrat-

ed, men who share a secret scenario

come to share a secret language. as

seen similar duty in a number of

Southeast Asian countries, and Tel

Roussos, a tanned, grejing man

has been is senior C.I.A. clandestine

ollicial in the Mediterra-

nean-ltaly, the Balkans, above all

before he retired last year to join.

the management of the

Fiu: by the time coffee and Cour-

voisier arrive. Daniel and his party

depart.

lishts a finely

reined Montecruz double corona.

talked to the island today," he says.

and suddenly the table is all atten.

tion.

Astor.

Washinston's

best Greek

resiaurant,

dong

owned

by

his

family.

These men are not war hounds or

reveal that he has had a fra-dis.

gunslingers. Their ethos and elos

with one of his chief operatives on

thrust

not lulard violence but

toward control. They are technetion-

Abaco, using a clear phone line

ic conflict managers: plannere, or-

i.e., a cunnection involving untapped

ganizers,

and onij orcasionalls the

phone numbers.

ilf the conversa-

manipulatore of siolent action. Mut

Bion had not involvel a ley agent

doon is i tall, pint deepchested

on Abaco, and if the phone nud

Irishran faithfully cust in the nold

from which most of the chief in-

would bave been brief.

specdurs of large Arterican julie*

department. seem to spring. Nach

likely C. K. "C'huck" Hall who har

en looks like an lug league grad.

Little

served ar Merlell'e princin ofer-

nate incroctor, biond, bution-edin

ative on Abaco during moi! vi the

hurn rimmed, ahrt.

with a Mong

Summer of l97d-reporterl that the

hung Racquet Chale Bie do Meatch

sperial courier nho reca-inally ar-

his niry biazer. The pi;-smoking

from Miami alsand a small

Krassas, in his dardssly cut En.

anjhitian seaplane, bringing con-

alich angricuis, demonotrates shat

68424 602.

1381945 8

sipomest which the tassau au.

the French mean shen ther 3a3

#Z ESQUIRI. OLARUARY

3. 3.7

---

## Page 33

distingué the aging Charles Poser

plunked in a spy scenario.

looking

not so much the part of James Fond

as his enigmatic superior. M. A"!

three, follow 'er Bell's briefing with

small nods and half smiles of ip

proval.

Wer Bell talks on, his eyes on the

pearl-grey

ash

of his

cigar.

his

krowly voice low. There's work to

be done. lots of it. The das known

V.D.I.-that is, the date when

Abaco breaks away from the Com

monwealth

of the.

Bahamas, the

Unilateral Declaration of Indepen-

denceis tentatively set for

Sen

Year's Day of 1975. The operations

required to seize control of the is-

land have been disguised as the

"uprising"' of an "autonomous."

cally organized independence more

ment" with such amazing Skill that

none of the world's major pres has

ispotted what is going on. A number

of seemingly. local

organizations

and deceptively "ad hoc": group

have sprung up to handle those ac-

tivities

that cannot be kept from

public view-propaganda, organiza-

tion; and so forth. There are: the

Abaco

Independence

Movement

(known as A.I.3I:) : the Abaco De-

velopment

Council:

Friends

Abaco; the

of

"Prosperity "71" Eco

nomic Conference on Abaro.

Every one of these cover organi.

zations has been clandestinels are

ated,

financed

and

managed

from

WerHell's headquarters

in

Power

Springs, a suburb of Atlanta.

To

coordinate their

activities-propa-

ganda, recruitment, proselytization,

the

importation of distinguished

guest speaker from the l's. sho

ed, utterly silent, with the built-in

preach the independence gospel bui-

capability of plussing a beer can al

tressed us a variety of economic

a thousam yards-fe guaranire

ard political promites-a carefulg

this mich,."

sass Verbell-and a

camouflaged

"forkurd

• headquar-

special sighting

device which en-

sers" has been set up in Miami d., ables the rilleman to fix his tange:

large.

deceptively suburban house

das' or night. With Gordan Ingram.

a? 1666 S.W.

Twelfth Stree: hides

WerBell has designed and product

a high-powered S51. radio seation

the incredible Ingram, a miniature

"dispatch

center" for hardling

izerl

submachine

gun

no larger

carpo traffic with Abaco via a small

than the familiar. 45 service auto

seaplane, and a halfway house for

matic. eight

hundred

rounds per

promising independence militaris

minute.

the whole shooting match

who are discreetly flown to Miami.

about as noisg is a very fast Ping-

On

arrival; the independence ac-

Ponz match-"pac... pac... pac-

tirists are either enrolled in maiiti-

pacpac"- the barrel is a patented

cal indotrination courses held in

Merlell silencer. There is plente of

Mismi.

or.

having been prorided

"sophisticated equipment" do test

with plane. tickets under various

But among visitors who hare been

corpr names, they are floun farther

invited there more than once, the

sarta su a training base ncar a:-

place electronic security fencing.

lanta, where they receive paramili-

the dog patrols, the imperious mara

lary training tinder the mmmand

ing signs, the helipad for mimbat

if a former U.S. infantry pacer,.

choppers, the airstrip for the com-

CoL Robert Barard

pany Learjet-among prople bo

Co!. Bajard, a tall, leather nian

call Mitch by his first name, the

in the Garj Cooper mold, sith gres

place is known as "the farm."

eres and a shock of reddish brown

tair, is the officer in charge of spe

cial 'personnel" Young, muscular.

unattached: Abaconian independerc

enthusiasts, whose commitmen: to

the cause of U.D.I. is especiaily

strong, are given seven seeks of

supersecret instruction in the use

of small arms, demolition

devices.

suit other commando skuls ai she

proving grounds of Mitch

Fell's

Her

arms

compally.

Proving

ervunds?. Well

W'er Kell

maxes

plenty of gadgets that bear testing.

•His compánies produce a deadly

sniper ride,

"accurized," antoma:-

Fraining special personnel is a

rigorous regime.

and Col

Bayard

keep's

himself

in

shape: at Zeibert's he takes

arilled liver and a single

beer, and lunches in silence.

seldom intersening in the discus-

sion, recasionally clancing at his

wrist chronumeter-he

must be

back at the furm by nightfall, and

as a mere colone!, he must "95 come

mercial"-no Learjets pre-sarmed

on the rendly strip.

Setting out the final phases of

the Abaco take over campaien. Wer

-- ABACO NATIONAL LAND TRUST

LAND ENTITLEMENT, CERTIFICATE

aristadri

SPECIMEN ONIY

¡baco's

head

honcho:

losopher

Michael C. Oliver.

Ah, yes. the seven thousand native inhabitants; aler the

revolution, cvery Abaconian will get a certificate like this

one, worth one

acre of homestead land absoluicly free.

3 39

---

## Page 34

Bell sounds as smooth!

and play-

children all together, one peric

fully Machiavellian as the senior

of

providentially, at this critiral june

account executive of a mediumi

their

land.

W'ho will decide

ture in mid: 1978. Michael C. Oliver,

what's just and fair?"

zenriatior

sizer ad agency plotting a tricky

"Ah... prohably I will."

Bell, offers the driven rich an alter.

but not really male or bores media

:There he is... the low voice, the

blitz: The support of the locals is

natise: not just sore backecuntry

bony figure in the forty-nine dollar

hides-hole, but eitirenship and resi-

, essential:

"To-get it, were gonna

Robert Hall drip dry suit, the jack-

change their self-image." It's easy:

dence in an entirely nes muntry: a

et bulge between chest and armpit

newborn commonwealth aholl ded.

just listen.

We're gonna use only

certouring not the familiar shoul-

the truth:" Abaconians think of

icated to the protection of private

"der holster but a Hewlett-Packard

wealth and the surviral- iodeed.

themselves

well,

as people of

minicalculator: Mike Oliver likes

modest means. In reality, they"re.

sitting..at the for end of the table

the

veriral-of the classic free

enterprise system.

beggarg.hunkered.on a mountain'of.

with a notebook beside the butter

Long before the Dow bit the five

gold, And this is by no means-an-

plate: He has lunched here prudent-

hundreds, and coffee went up to

other hollow hype. No effecure psy.

I and anlubriously on nothing but

fifty cents a cup.

long before old

war concept is.

cold "fish' and iced ted and with a

people began eating, dog food and

Stretching across the central and

health-conscious frown for the ra-

farmers dumping their calves into

southern reaches of Abaco there are

por of two-dollar cigars, staring in-

ditches, Mike Oliver foresaw that

300,000 three lndred thousand

tently at every speoker in turn, nos

the

free-enterprise

econoray

acres of undeveloped prime land,

staring at Ted Roussos over the re-

doomed -in-America: It

was.

sounded

potentially, and by no means unre

mains of his cold jellied salmon

strange at firat, coming from Mike

alistically, worth hundreds of mil.

with the deep eyed concentration of

Oliver, this single minded belief in

mons of dollars. Thig is virgin soil

§ man whose daimon senses à chal

devaluation, decline and fall, for in

Under British colonial, rule these.

lenge. "You have a good point. a

were crown lands, reserved for the

• the mid-Sixties the dollar was still

small point but a good point "Just'

the fixed star of the economic firma-

sovereign, and now, under the new

and fair" are only words until

ment, the U.S. economy was boom-

I self-governing

Bahamas -Con-

sumebody decides

what they

are

ing. and Oliver himself seemed the

monwealth,: administered br the

supposed to mein. On Abaco, I will

very embodiment of the American

Pindling:

government

in

Vassau,

decide.. That's the big point isn't

dream of success: a European im

they're still government land, stricts.

it??

migrant to the U.S. at eighteen, he

E no trespassing for private citi-.

Right you

are, Mike. Chestr

had made his first million by thirty:

tens:

Slitch WerRell and Big Jack Mul-

(real-estate development construc

Just suppose, the scenario goes.

doon and Smart Walt Mäckem and

tion) and 1965 saw him living on a

that on January 1,

1975, god old

Courtly Lord Belhaven in their be

charming sooded estate in Nevada

torpid hunse over

"sorry-general-

spoke

three-hundred-dollar

suits

with a pretty wife naniel Betty and

the-switchboard is closed"

New.

and

club ties

and hand-rubbed

three lively children. Approaching

Year's Dab, Creat Abaco and Little

Peal's cases, and Bob Hagard in hig

fits,. Oliver was the president of

• Abaco and all the lesser cars. reefy

crapes silence, and all the other

sever:l medium-sized corporations.

and coralback adjacent therero, de

M.C.P. stalt (New-Country Project

clare themselves.an independent re-

is shat that stands for) and special

settled,

induential

somunity

public.

This

vast virgin

acreage

leader and the employer of a ras-

personnel drawing contract pay on

ishingly beautifal secretary namel

sinulel he-up for uraba. Exery na-

or about Abaco are ultimately onl

Vicky Io Todd, who was crowned

tive-born

Abaconian could line up

meant to enforce what Mike Oliver

Miss Jevada in 1070. let for al-

fur his dissy.

considers just and fair and desir-

most ten jear, where other busi

"Will he ket it?" aska Ted Rous.

able. 'Ted Roussos knows it, too; he

nessmen and economists saw only

sos at the restaurant.

resigns from the project the day

progress and prosperits. Oliver di-

"Ohrho, you het your boots." sass

after the luncheon meeting. But no

vined a long-range trend toward de

Merlell:

"Here,

sce if l

can find

one else does.

Why

should thes?

pression and disanter.

this stult..." He lips through his

Jike Oliver is here, after all, not

Worldwide tratel and an intense

attaché case, custom-made bo Peal's

just as the founder.and constitu-

reading of economies helperd

of londrn..

pulls

out sume sold-

tional creator uf a perfectly seri-

tOn-

vince him us 1965 that. as he told

rimmed, elaborately printed bonds.

ous American nes-country muse:

& visidor yeurs later.

"They're go

•Here: Lathe Abaco Sational Land

Trust Beneficiary Share Cortincite.

ment,

but in representation of a

ing to screw up the moneg." He

And here's. the uther gizmo,

the

powerful syndicate

of

financial

felt certain that debauchery of the

backers. It is, above oll, Oliver who

dollar sould lead to political crisis

Land Entitlement Certificate. This

is mathing independence an immi.

inflation.

guys every native Ábaconian adult

nent reality fur the citizens

of

and ultimatels to sume

sort of dictatorship.

dels his one acre homesite free and

Abaco, most of whom have never

"Once I san that the dollar was

cieal utter.

independence.

And on

heard his name.

kaput.

that whatever the govern-

the bereticiary share, he'll get some

Hut amons the driven, troubled,

ment did would only make matters

of the major leave revenues. Mess's

querting

financiers

of

America:

worse,

I dumped my

stocks and

the lendor.

lass it sell on

the line.

Oliver is more

than

name.

To

bonds and

switched to.a strong

Pou bed phey'll get a share.

mans business leadera he's a miri

positin

in

cold

coins.

Ereryone

walled, the border save right

here.

cie worker, a minor prophet on the

laughel,

¿proe ilodi that the political ritua-

except mi

friends;

my

crumbling ralls of the cits, a fat-

friends said l'il gone crass.

Well. as

sirer in Mares is just and jair.'".

sighter centry registering: the ap-

"Just and

fair.""

Roussor

preach of the forcey of darkneis.

•Jul

dinos, it curned out that l'd

madle some pretty sharp lets in the

sullio. "Of conirse, june and fair. 18

Fur a speiter is haunting Americ

mones market, and instrad of call-

Bhe Sullinal land Whatnot

files

-n ness apparition of four space

ing to suggest shere l could get

each nativo a cne acre honesite. it

age horsemen: Inflation, Cnemploy.

sunle

wychotheraps.

my friends

sill pire thor all, mass, soman an

ment, Degression and Chaos, And

called so IContiamad on page 158!

3..13

* I SpUrAr. rEBRUARY

---

## Page 35

THE NEW COUNTRY CAPER

Maddo prunes fille

dial isin where

lose ceting nig investment tips, And.

ahile 1 bacon maline come real money

Pinancial advire. Just the opposite 1s

all. thr insestment.advisers

and

analysts and for.

castets

market

consultants

Kiss.

thes couldn't

tradd. sile

when their

were against the

wall, and su-

ben? lio murket. Lat me tell sou, nog

nail priple do.

And the sas it han.

peird. it

wasn't and tips or churts or

porerulio

managers;

what really hap-

meier was that bo linis lid heronic a

silen: -i disciple, reallinof Profes.

sor Lunwig von Slists."

P'rofessor son Alises, the longest-lived

1ne3-901

nOxe

prolific

(ninetren

Brise and least self-effacing economist

o!

the

Austriun

schoul founded.by

Buhm-Finerk,

died in. 1973 in

dest

Tork-Cist inchore he'd bion traching

since 1010) just ax, after a half cin-

sury of checurits und neglect, his teach-

ings began to enjoy a renaissance here,

muc!.

file:

Karl Marx came

into

rogue in Eastern Europe ot about the

Bine she siege guns of she hed Army

bevane auilible in the distançe..

Had

nort

people listened to l'on

Mises in time, there would he more sold

milionaires like Oliver tolas, and al.

though

•no? many

did, the professor's

tint osteria of numirers often compared

hin: in epuchal senture to Karl Marx-

Mart of intraconserrative capitalistic

first ions, of course.

Yon

polomath and his

teaching: are comples, but some of the

principal ductrines are nue difficult

• J'un Mises believed tha human

frcedunt

and

laissez-faire

capitalisti

were one and the same

thing.

He had

sacranentnl

faith

in

the

market, no? ay a mere institution the

sort de valear "computer'

"seen br kes

neans which the government can tink

er sith shenever it needs tu-but 8+ a

netarianal process

which

regulates

all hamar atairs. Such as one cannot

hope to did a fine

satch wich a bung

Vin Mises sax convincest that

geer tent couled not intervene in.ded.

nomic clairs, in the providential sark.

ВПра

the

marhet,

sithout

causing

"Intersentionism"

hats 1!

self-

deferrina, sicious cirele: the firue kus.

ernnia! Inirusion into busitiess neces.

sitainit i second to seem the ravages of

the linse. then n third one du unde the

soar- innie lenies of the seronil; these

a fourth

intervention to

isleriate the

traume ed is third... Von Bises de

"Interseremnists."

the

brainirin,

maideline latin lue of eruno-

mini, ditner..

poles plannurs, socialo-

xi.-is.

Peripain in unushing with an economic

fide

puitie

total that antone manhanel liraril sio

titl:1".

we and decond luissed fisire

Capetition do dis paramount arial sys.

1 too helend dor chars all

One beautiful

smoking experience.

If you've never

had one, have an

A&C Grenadier.

Long. slender. mild-tasting dC Grenadiers

- inlight or dark astappers-are a unique

blund of fine importer and dorestie polecers

that give you read fader, sail fring rasie.

His ice beautiful smoking expeneric.

Antonio Cleopatra

₴ 1.3

ESQUIRE FERRUARY 151

8.9932

---

## Page 36

Chaos

and tyranny-that is

Mike Oliver Superas no Parly as

the incidalole result of Anierica's

tresrntionis?" and

"collertivist"

debauchery. That he made millions

•lullare in coid profer along the way

nirl

pently

reassure Oliver,

it

werely

confiraiml his premonitiong.

Of course

the

profits brijual: 8o prople who lens

ti

sering o1

...

mast of us-thes sermed.en prose that

Oliser had sonething.

To sell the world what he had, Dliser

wrote a book in

1968: A alon Conspi-

sitions

•for a iles:

Соннету.

Printed

privately, never noticed in

book

written in pedestrian declaratory

sEjle.

the book has thus for sold 11,100

copies

through the mail-proving that

there

does • exist

that

contradictors

thing:

genuine

underground

best

seller.

The subtitle on the cover reads: "Has

the

Time Come To Abandon the Uniteil

States?"

Oliver's

answer

is

firm

"Ycs."

The biok tells why,

and how.

•The

United States' can nu longer:

be

saveil

from severe crisis.

Though

not jet under complete tyranny, preva-

lence of totalitarian ileas and increased

use of suppressive measures prove

the

end of fronlon. is in

sight:

Americal. (Only) those

range

who

for.a timely departure will

cape the coming horror:

The book is not a trace; it's a plan of

action.

If Ludwig

run

Mises

indeed

the Karl Sorx of monetory libertarian-

-ism, and Marry Aroune, the best-selling

author who invented Peter

Panic, per-

haps

its

Bakuning

its

prolific

pans-de-

atructionist, then

Mike

Oliver

is

it's

Fidel

Cistro-the

ultimate

militant

who redeiines

the doctrine in ternis

of

total actin.

Eroine's book, advocating

that self-sufficient people

withdraw to

"petront hones"

fur safres,

has snor-

balled into an all-season best seller; but

•it's Mike Oliver. who is about to show

them how to do it."".

"The person with

self-reapect has a

righe to preserve his life and freedom,

Oliver's book reassures the reader. "But

he has no duty to stay in a country

him.

— this

tinie

States.

Thus,

the

it's

the

United

to

United States in

longer exist.

person

has

Fortunately,

surprising

number

jet quite suit.

The exact location

the western

tu

find

that

chinks have

runtry seekers.

tial men hu

Mike Over's strictures i short while menemen: pops she first British fille-

ajo, are sapparting his campaign rosh

mones and anything rise that might lo

-gent the

batters

n! the

01ha6e 61337.

required.

Whatser you need,

Mit:

patan in

just any the word, Blike. And the Murd

Colin Nicholl With a ripulation for bo

important

niurition of Oliver's sall.

enriwed don-lountry Projeet has turn

the meeting and the alliance sith. Mich

HerBill anil die semi business, pars.

mili..ars

it's the

Wiser Vertil franization, at least an

far

as Abaco is

soncerned. Sgerial

personnel

Are

intersieued, recruited.

brieferl: Walter Mackem, the scholarly

SOURE CX.C.I.A

pficer leaves fur

the

Rahainas on his fret assignnien:, Big

John Mulduon runts a suite in the 13.

fajeste Building in midtown Washing-

ton.

kaiph McMullen is dispatcher to

Bliami, along with a pale, quiet former

British intelligence officer known only

as Grant who is a communications spe

cialist hireil to run wireless traftic with

the.WerBell-Oliver'organization's.agent

nesirork on Aharo... coded sirelris

Irate. fire-digit groups and all that

jaxi, the way a proper intelligence ala

-tion does it. The skeptical Tel Rousses

is soon replaced with another U.S. ex-

intelligence officer why is not merely

enthusiastic:

this lenn. joung

harl-

charger. named Charles Bosle, he is,

best of all blark; off he goes to work

among the silent.

sun-wrinkled fisher

men and löbster trappers of Abaca.

And jet who-but Mike Oliver is des.

tined to comprehend it, to encompass it.

to direct it all? Who but Oliver under-

stands that the campaign for Abaco is

nut another banang-republic land crab,

that this is an ideologienl, jes, a moral

movement? Who nakeg sure that the

late lieutenan: direl of the dragil

and Sutherland Highlandors who 511s

serving a term aa P'arliamont do a Cros-

serralive.

Colin "Jan Vilile" Mitchell 5583 a

shock. Broughe evre to Herbell's 11-

lanta relate on the usual all expenses

paid trip to mer: some of Abacon spur

sure, Mitchell furred out lu be abrasite

and relentlesali

arquisitive.

To beip

Abaco sinne. he santed a larse feo...

i very large for.

Nig visit was not a

Lord Belhisen is direrent Keeping

an eje on Oliver, calmly hut as care

fully as the American is watching Aim.

ho decides not to explain the coniplesi

ties. of influencing ller Majesty's for-

trainent.

"Oh, absrlutely."

he tells Oli

ver with an encourasing smule.

"Not lo

sorry. I don's think landon really caris

what happens in the

Bahamas. 1o0

know-tuo

miapries at

home. I've alrends tabled a question de

Abaco for next serk in the House, and

se'll keep up the pressure, I'll promise

you.that. Ej the fine C.D.l. is due.

no,

I don'e think we should worry too

much abrut serious trouble front lot e

don.

•H'ell, U.D.I. is all set: New Tear's

Das" sase Oliver. His face is auddenly

different: the intense stare turns into a

darns, almas. arretionate grin.

*Latil

then, good luck, rserybals, and back lo

sork. There's loss to be done."

ideas of free enterprise and unfettered

market capitalisni and some expressn

in every leaflet, pamphlet or nessietter

that the Oliver-WerBell organization

produces fur distribution on

Abace."

AIM DESIANDS CUSSTITETIONAL CHANGES

WHICH WILL ELIMISATE THE MINER D$

GUVERSMENT TO ARDITRARILY LIMIT FER.

SONAL RICHTS! AIM DEMANDS AN INDIE-

DATE EXO TO GOVERSMEST DISERSHIP

AND CONTROL ON BUSINESS ENTERPRISES,

AIM DEMANIN THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A

'LAND TRUST!'

Do the silunt, bare-leged men and

somen of Abnco really demand all this:

W'hy ask? Mike Oliver has it all thoughe

out for them, Arteur of a remuir-con.

trollad independence secnario, he means

lo be a bon putron-not just the remole

manipulator,

bue in time she ethcient

and productive mannger of the allairs

of Abaco.

settled here at lunch.

One question remains du he

"He are sure that our special person-

nel will seize and hold control on Abace

when U.D.I. comes," Oliver sags, turn-

ing

directly to Lord Belhasen.

*1 hat

I'm still worried about is the attitude of

the

British

government.

The findling

regime in Nassau will uree militars in.

tervention by the british

when they te

alize that their constabulars is no match

for our men.

We went to le suse that?

interiantion does not like place. to g's

shini yuu can do it:"

Lord lichasen is an urbane, unhip.

pable veteran of over ten jonge in lie

Musse of lonels. He is an etormones im.

Ide men rise in silent serester. The

Tiachpreprick is over: within tien

ty-four hours the Oliver-Werkell orga-

nization is bars in high gear. The palis

to V.l.l. is lined wich a thourand tasks;

contestions do he cupled, mingled pa-

thineters

separatel.

eontingencies

planned, "operational capabilities" to b

"actunted."

Bohert Anthony Carmichnel Hand.

ton, thirteenth Baron of liclhasen and

Stanton, jees back to london overnight,

pensively sipping lair of lolas Groich in

a frunt-sabin f.l.l'. seat. a fortnight or

so is spent planning and talling tier

tions, and on June 1d, at hall pas: two

of the clock, with the House of Lords

reassembled after the Whition reetes,

the

Lord Chancellor on the

belsack.

the Bishup of lorismuth having read

she proper provers, bord Belhuven neer.

to address the prors of the realms in a

suice of singuiar aramily:

"Dis Lordo, I box leare to adi the

Question which sands in my name or

the Order Paper. The Questina Nas 29

dollows: To ait Her Majorly's Gotern.

mat shat pogreeitations they inierel

do make do the Govermont of the Ba-

hamis

urging there to conse their ha-

anisment of she perple of dharo."

Lord Goronng-Bolores, poorlinienta-

rjundercerretary@fafete.etanel.com

agonil for the gaserned: "My here!.

the Aharo I-lande are on intesiral part

of the Conmanuralit of the liabanas,

which heranie an indopen land suber-ices

3.13

---

## Page 37

Sidle on July 10:

1973. 1t

sould remat

for a shorents

set on the blink: boar

cherriore. be appropriate for Her M:.

14rn Honi

'orthe for Intillereral).:

eli's liesernment in the L'niied Kink-

anil vind.

dom lie suri to intersene in the interral

shichts!

ora for panel trucis aporiro

a Pairs of the Bahamas."

-phizing

the findlink

Rovernment's in.

Lorl, Helharen

and

•Stenton:

competerice and corruption

written by

Lords: I thanks the noble Lord for phat Oliver's exceutive assisiant Dave Scholl:

rrris and appreciate stal he sajs....

and

bunches

other

goodies

¡nil although the prople ol Abaco have

shipped

directly and informally since

rot, on the serent record, demonstrably

they.

sould

only annoy the

Bahamas

sufereil harassnient,

and Lord Pelha-

sen linova it, there is'a subliminal sense

which it's all quite true. To lure the

surernment into prociaiming and seit-

the regular

Tro n

•ble d'hüte at Duke

Leibert's.

and Slike

erating the principle of nonintervention

in the

nesely

independent

Bahamas. is

one of the subiler goals of Lord 'Belha-

ten's straters.

Lorid

Gorong-Roberts is

densely.

gratifyinals enersetic about it all: "lly:

Lorus, this is the ease of an

indepen:

dent cuuntry....

My Lords, indepen:

dence. is independènce." If that dictum

hardens into. dogma, if only by

sheer

force of repetition.

the Oliver-Wer Bell

orianization will have a free hand on

Abaco: Washington,

for its part, is not

likely exen to consider intervention, In.

the meanwhile, Lord Delharen hesionce

again,

asons number of previous oc-

the

Gramercy

$23.50) Balking

WerBell. who

• ton but at the

tel (Monroe Süite

experting

tant berause

executed, the

not succeed

nists - new

try.

This afte

• prospect. He

more,

owner

Inn

(single

to Mitch

Stashing-

luxe Madison. Ho

daily).

Oliver is

well devised and

vestors and colo

an all-new coun-

there is. to be a

•for just such a

casions;

impressed.upon the

Höuse of

# lar-

chain." Bond,

Lords that the plucky, oppressed little

spectacularly

Abaro supere.

In

Powder Springs. Crorgia, where

hing

expressed his

Col. Bayard is swenting five special per-

project,,

and. am

sonnel trainees from Abaco down at the

machine gun range behind the fishpond

of

Mitch

WerBell's farm,

it

is

nine

of Abaco.

o'clock in the morning.

Dusty, strained,

popried from the jabhing of rapil-fire

recuila,

the colonel and his boj's,

whore

diurnal "duty tour" legins at six ain.,

take a break. In boxy little electrie carts

of the sort used hy golfers,

they roll st-

lently scross the close-cropped lawn of

the l'er Bell

estate.

up to the manor

house where

they

rationa"-

dras

"midmorning

country ham sandwiches,

pc-

can biscuits, cold milk in fourteen-ounce

£1m85e5.

Then

it's

down to

the rifle

range for three hours of marismanship

instruction with a remarkable training

debict

devised boy

WerBell himself: a

mandard

7.62

X.A.Т.0

military

rifle

converted to fire 22 long-ridle cartridges.

1:'s a lus-cost, lus-noise, practically re-

coil dese way to teach a man host en hit

a Dr l'epper can at sebenti five sards

with a military firearm, and it

works:

the men sho make it through this drill

therrafter

known,

in

the special

W'erBrllian

neinenciature

con: pounded

frem the lingo of Wurld War 11, Korea.

Vietnam, and the intelligence establish.

cent's invisible war, as sniper quali-

fat." Thes are, too.

sit hundred miles or so southward as

she courier plune Ries, the Oliver Her.

lied urguniration's dismi headquarters

humming

srich

a livies.

Nicks

Told, the ling-legeed, nieling-dianond.

real Mina randa or 8970-1230.

hav-

ing married one of Midr Olierr's youn

sier-presidents,

i+

now Aprosn

nonpro

Minallo do Mrs. Halah MeMullen-i.

tience.

Bond 19

yourg.

unexperitaly

joung for a self-made millionaire, slim,

disrk,

dressel in a

black

which

looks rich but somehow too nonsents. He

har alrendy had at least one long talk

with

Oliver,

but

the altorney, as he

puts it,

"knows front

not ink

ebout

Abaro. It's just as

well, for assembled

to greet the eno potential participante

there are Col. Bagard, ditch

WerBell

and of course. Oliver-a synergized 2510

sound up to deliver a socho briefing.

The larger

begins

sith. the

usual

question about Abaco as a potential tax

whelter, and Oliver fells is with prac-

ticed ease.

"Acep in mind that se are building

on Aharo is not a lax-shelter nation,

he says.

"Il's a lat-free

nation. Hisre

you read any of our planning papers?

lave you seen niy tamk? The consistu.

lion? No? Well, marbe Frank euld yuu'

-the lager shaies his head dubious-

ly.

"Anyhon,

basically what

ae are

structuring on Aharo is this... maybe

I better rend it io

you from the consti-

•prenubio: Ne, the prople of

... and so on:..

here

th.a 8

the only

nuel

proper itunetian al

garronment in fo prontert

i?s

not prasel, Bull flirt plie

one we tele to pled finction

on the

page:

probertine

hung preparing o

"partr: pichup""

fur

the pilot whin

makre the liveraly liai.

con-piano sun lu allaro, lute the sire.

till!

masking-taped

carans cartons 1o

leiters to spent 111 albrro; spare parte

aginal purse emil fruit, seei

er entition arithin als

Berauer, dou te. de

an hire lurther slown that government

3.13

i Hired do participants lo protes

perannel

rights

aguirst eilermest

and mieront lice and brand'"

"W'hat ins siran to sas...

'" say's the

-Well. in instance. you sre shal se

mean if jou so lu paie thirty-eight.

Oliver

pierridri

him

"Hore

Article

Turnts-scien

says this

Fincal ant

tera--that

Bránch or

тед.

fort of

Offerrise

any forg

other

materal

Deterren

dorin at par

parlici.

pate in the

Do you follou

First

off: the gusernment of the

Republie of Abaro

ndependent

5ill-have

power

lo'issue monci. This is very important.

more important than... Frank knows

how, important this'is. Private Anancial

houses

sill

isgue all

our money and

theyll guarantre it.

There will be no

Federal Deposit Insurance on Abaço, no

goverriment loan guarantees or banking

regulations. Nothing like the Federal

Reserte.

So central

bank, na

you

can see-no

central bank. no ir.rolve.

mone

with the international Sionelary

Fund."

"The mones will be backed in gold."

sa's the lanzer questioningly.

The mones will be in gold, at least

sonie of it." sai's Oliver.

"Sume of us

were the

fiest participants hove

drain up the charter for a hank, and

will issue the "rand,"' the basic unit

containing

23 tros ounces of golda

handy

mediun aired coin north about

Afty

dollars

presert rates, Sened

after

Ayn

Rand.

jo'

umderstand, not

after the

south African rand. There'll

be quarters

and perhops quintals.

the

quintel

sorth just about ten dollars.

Then of murie co'll hare to have paper

ssretie..

backed either in

guld up other

stable assres. All fully goil-consertible

= l'ela

guld, you

the lawyer softly.

"They

bie

QUITES

froud.

Rut of

will

prokabis

144194144

f..t

safrty--privately

"They'll

tre

voluntar

•Goluntary in

shoppine solun.

Poet gross bul

ESQUIRE. PENRUARY

893

---

## Page 38

Those who pus

will

the jearly

premiums

he damusini

"participant:

shes 'll be

entitleil to

the seric.

cranent provides: those the cont

son't be.

Whaleser

serviers

husiness can provide competitiveiy sill

he left to privalr enterprise.

"Like the pulice"" the langer smiles.

"There's a cute deal-if you dont pas

your premiums, they can't arora: you

for overtime parking.

"it'ell. no.

Not realli." rays Oliver.

"Thpy can't

parting

arrest you for

overtime

anghorr.

because this gubern-

ment won': have the right so sell you

how

long you should stop

your car

at

she curb-why should it? Bue it you're

guilly of force or fraud, soul. be

#F-

rested whether you are a paid-up par-

ticipant of nut. What a nonparticipant

ton't have mill be the right to conduce

civil litigation,

set

up &

surrogate

trust, to enllect damages on a tort and

peace-beeping forces.

becaste

shat they

sill tre.

Sharo

rrte..

made war on another lan? Ab is.

Bary, of course. Here druito sian is:

all wrong.

They are

made ta

mortal outh and stani so accree dor

she national anthem. Abam was i tair

a national anthem, beratie ite

menl.o1 Abaco will have no curra..

sonal, para legal, special powers. is ill

function only as the hired serra.: el

the participants

who pay for is Tro

Abaco price-limping volunterg en::

be

made to salute any

emblems, or take theistie ple

ike

guernment has

no right 8o

they will sign a luo-gear or firzastar or

any-year contract., as the

conditinas

may demand, just like ang hired era.

men. suspect it will be a dana fiNi

•little forte.

"Well," says the lawyer.

who hes

been glancing at his watch with rede

frequeney.

•Well, Frant,

government will it "think...

Be, anyhow?" asks Bond. "i mean as an

orcanization. Hou will'it be run?"

• "Well, in some wags itll run just like

polta go. Call you in the mornins, Wise,

and we'll talk.

the sovernment here."

"One more question,"

sars. the lan.

"Just like the :L.S: Governnient The

constitution calls for a bicameral legis

"You sür the natives, lie, pea larch

sand natives

lature. An assembly électel on a pra.

"Seven thousand," says Mitch Her-

portional basis and a senate. And there,

Bell, maybe right or nine at the maia

sou see, the similarity stops. Abaco will

it some who are working in the boie?s

hase no foreign service lilie the State

in assau return after independense."

Department, onls trade representatises

"Right, say eight thousand ratirs"

in countries where business demands it.

sajs the lasger. "How can you be sure

they'll buy all this-vote for yuur son-

and all that? After all, she

place belungs 8o the natives."

training quite a few

natives with leadership potential." says

Workell. "Policical indoctrination, 2=1

BAG L I THE WINNING OF CHER

maybe half the population, that'll f

along with us, vote the wag they're sug

friend for fier i3)

Cher tas with Suany. They wer

separain.

bs?

Coften

al.

didn't

lirio this: tie passpily fell in love. In

stith ans

ne.

caracy. Gerten,

linterison

sent lo sec

at

Geffen's club,

"Cher

for

dinner,

said.

and se

Getten

Cher shor,

butterfly-emer

whire with a

and

over

one

ear

in

nim

with the mire

psschiatrist,

he

color.

will

California

ponsible

this

and

flat-out

Ahmet Artegun

rock stars

who'd

srecked

crashing

sit

"No school systen," sag's the lawger.

"W'hy not?"

"Because whist is called

the school

ajstem in the United States is really an

indoctrination

system,"

BaY'S

Oliver.

"It's a syster for bureauerais ló brain.

wash juung people in favor of collee.

tivism and stntism."

"And suciulisis," Baja Bond approv-

ingly.

"Yes. In the high

schools and col-

leges, in fasri of outright socialisn,

says Oliver. "This is not to say

Abaco

son't have an educational argien o? ing

own hind, but every schoud will hare io

be trancel prisabel, by the fanulies u!

the students or privale

will mean,

bonelue:rrs.

here and there, some hard-

ship, some lunp-term borroning. matte

mand thus sill be made fensible a: very

low interese, l expert- but collertively

it will mean the survival of trendon!

its one

resentinl

provenance in

the

minals of the

dent arucration.

Because,

you see," Oliver holds

his bony

hnger

belore his faer to silence

lions,

all inierrup.

"Ahare is mi joing to be another

banana repible. That's not the print; 1

mouldn't speed an hour's time just lo

make some money that way.

The point

as that the Republic. of

Abaco a ill ir,

firse ud all, a moral experiment, a polner

is here

se'll tes lu hero indiridual fore

alone alive seen il is doesn't survise in

America.

"Hut son's you need an arms?" rais

Bassad doulaails.

dorite," sase Derr. "He will sail thome.

ESQUICK DISHUART

ing his boys hos to shout si a mioting

target without missing. And te fruit

the natises who son't buy wha: de cri

"Fine, call you tomorron, rise toge

" And Frank Fand 2-1

his counsel are gone.

Mike Oliver is

much.... W'hut du you think, Nich:"

For an insiant, he is as drairni do 23

perling ult his shirt. "I'm fuing su tard.

lue at breatifast it's a different story.

"franti called before eight this riers.

ing-te's really turned un," sags Oiser.

He's puttina up ten thousand cass so

a sure of loutholi un abaco, Po said.

and next seck well tall sirious sionry.

¡lo logre the prijrie.".

"As torte as it kudo like a gnal deal."

Ber tell prosle in a huge psor arco.

"Thal's what his langer isid." Mir

says happily.

Aunt no you care for freedon, Arrains

that's

the

big

and don dece

what trand said" He said, liar, iris

are absuintely rishi.'"

3 33

to ask.

ins.

thar: in

19rs.

before

sIr.

Gefen

and he is

weslth to him

song a busly

that way 1s

"HIn

---

## Page 39

25 January 1975

SUBJECT: Press Reports of Ex-CIA Employces Involvement with

Persons under Congressional Investigation

1. Press reports of Sentator Lowell P. Weicker's investigation.of

CIA's involvement with other government agencies surfaced the contact

of Lucien Conein of DEA, a former employce, with an elecironic maru.

facturer hamed Michael Morrisey. The same reports have also tied

Morrisey with a Mr. Mitchell L. WerBell, Ill, who, according to our

files, has claimed United States Government and CIA connections in

the past. According to DEA, WerBell recently invoked the Filth Amend-

ment whea appearing before Senator Jackson's Subcommice investigating

DEA on whether or not he supplied arms to Robert Vesco. 'Also, while

not mentiozed in the press, at least one retired ClA staffer and possibly

two others may have been involved with Conein and Morrisey. The ex-

staffer is John P. Muldoon, a friend of Conein's.

who currently is a

private security specialist who has dealt with Morrisey in the purchase

of audio sweeping devices for his business.

Muldoon was recained by

WerBell during first half of 1974. The other two, Walter J. Mackem,

an acquaintance of Concin's, and a Theodore J. Roussos. bith of wrom

were in contact with WerBell for possible employment in a scheme to

promote the secessión of the Bahamian Islard of Abaco, in enterprise

publicized in February 1975 issue of Esquire by Ardrew St. George.

2.

We have no information in our files on the B. R. Fox Coinpany

or the fox Company principals mertioned in the press accounts.

We were,

however, told by DEA that Mr. Sandy Smith, Timi magaline reporter,

was working on a story to the effect that the late Bernard Spindel, forme:

Although Air. Smith did not allege that cither ClA or DEA were associaled

no intention oi dropping the story and we can expect lurther press coverage.

3. In conclusion, there has been no CLA involvement with the

B. R. Fox Company or with Michael Morrisey.

Moreover, Mr. WerBell's

claims oi ClA affiliation or support over the yoars aro simply not true.

3.32

---

## Page 40

SERE

25 Jarsary 1975

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston WerBell III (201-259910)

1. Mitchell Livingston WerBell, who appeared in recent press

reports has for over a period of ten years been claiming to be a

répresertative of the United States Government and of CLA.. The facts

do not support this contention.

2 ClA first learned of WerBell in July of 1959 when he contacted

General Cabel indicating inowledge of Cuban and Dominican affairs.

Mr. Thomas J.: Flores of LA Division was put in contact with VerBell

"and considered using him as an FI asset.

. A POA was grarted on

7 July 1959 for this purpose. By October. 1959 it was apparen: that he

did not have the access to information as hoped and he apparently looked

upon his association with Cl as a means of furthering his various

business schemes. All contact was then severed.

3.

From that time until the present Mr. WerBell has cropped up

in a number of nefarious activities whereby he inferred he had ClA connections

or support.

He was reported to have been involved in arms sales to

Nicaragua and Guatemala, in efforts to gain recognition by cortain

South American countries of the Cuban Government in Exile, and in an

abortive scheme to invade the Republic of Haiti in 1960.

He also turned

up in Thailand where he contacted the COS purporting to be a counter-

insurgency expert. In 1971 the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense

queried the Agency re Mr. Werbell, asking if WerBell had a contractual

agreement or association with she Agency, as Werbell was awaiting a hearing

before a Department of Defense Examiner related to his pa-ticipation in

the aboritve Maiti invasion.. The Office of the General Counsel placed the

maiter in perspective. Subsequently, he contacied the Agency lo request

intercession on his behalf to have his security clearance reinstated which

IoD revoked because of his Haitian caper.

He was told this could not be!

done. In 1971 he again appeared in Thailand attemping to seil arms. In

1973 de was under investigation by U.S. Treasury Dureau at Alconc!,

Tobacco and Firearms and by the United States Customs Servico for activities

relating to possible mercenary activities in Absco Island, Bahamas.

this connection WerBell contacted three ex-ClA employees, john P. Muldoon,

Milier 3e Maciom and Theodore Roussos in i scheme to devolve there int

the activities of an organization called the Friends co Anaco oni whichlis

advocating the secession of the island from the Commonscalt of Bahamas.

3. 3.2

---

## Page 41

2

All three inviduals repurted their involvement with the WerBell group

and had sought guidance from th. Agency. In May and June they were

advised to break all ties with WerBell.

On 27. June 1974 the FBI was

formally apprised of WerBell's overtures for their collaboration in

the effort to bring: Abaço's secession.

In September 1974 WerBell

reportedly went to Greece to sell arms to the Greck Government.

Most recently WerBell reportedly appeared before Senator Jackson's

Sub-Committee investigating DEA and had taken the Fifth Amendment

on the question of whether or not he had supplied arms to Robert Vesco.

32

.i.a.

---

## Page 42

STATE DEPT. CRELE NASSAU 179

DATED 3O JAR 175

Subject: LOCAL: PERCTION TO ESQUIRE

MAGAZINE ARTICLE ON ABACO

---

## Page 43

FBI Cuble dated 24 JAN' 75

subject; Aladdin m. AL-TAYYAR

Internal Security - IRAQ

---

## Page 44

DEL. Wes Offered

Explosive Devices

Er Leerence Siries

Ajerardrin

firm

al-

in scil

an norial eif the

Dri?

Fiercement

Adrainication

une aprices desance do carry coplaits

in

stick unlikrig

ab

•cienhone

handrel, a cianolio pack or a rainlicht.

The dificial. Lerion Suet had core

to the arm.

tronie sureillance rouipmeni

manica

partiaor.

accordina

an

agenci sookesmall.

Robot!

11.

er! hump.

Concin and'a socond DEl Micial, Cril

Frans. a'so

chirrved a

of the replosive equipmen:

but did not

bis ant'of it.

accordina to feld-amp.

A caialo ue of equipment apprenils

sold by the company. R. it For, destities

several desire

desianed "to

plosives

tristered

by

time.

carty

ex:

miniemen:.

mechaniral

pressuits,

light,

ur

audio

mechanisms

The catainque sidies.

The desires have

Been desened and taalciured to? sale

sutherited

azuncick

pha

United

Statis

crifically iniented

for spchestion curside ne this country.

The

internation

coniained

is

classilied by lisa manufacture:

for U.S.

Enverrmont ure paid.

The

handlur and

storagc of this material

should de

done

so mindial de lis peasilise paiure."

Cane'ee and Frank

"Scieral"

said. he

rid

ang know which devices they saw. Corcin.

a former prepune mi the contal inteli

gence liency, is actin= chief of sirclai

operations and firid supper dor thr DF.N'9

oiline of intellisince.

Foidhany said ina

Concin's office is tire operatina: inm

nf

the lictor diren and artises 3a!g

1o proctraid tarta: diad accration:

•Conein was ana anaitible for cominient.

Foldiamp said that Frak rari empti

cails

inat the denionstration was not in

qurstrd."

Concia's risition du the deroneration.

Feldkamp

However. that's not why f'm herr"" Asked

why the craoncration was mane by, the

salesman.

wrom friddone sir he could

not identily. Felikan; ropler, "Likr any

sonal salesman.

the guy

to

maie a sic. l'e was loid

Pid has nos,

gill

not,

does not purchase that type of

The

If did her on hundred hucks

sort o acronics suncillarce equip-

biene ahich feilkarp sond is "derquentis

Lead

ry the Dad; under court cader.

stia?:or.

Forsing

do the mine ta: cut of curry or sinal-

AFT

Hurris id Can cord and Paa cona: Death.

Jana.

.8.0.

M'alecidia 0.001919:68

d.o0i6"= 19

J..

Coir...

Comrin was sill al the ClA

Concin annuiril; dal airl repurt the.

dimonsiration

• tie current

17!.

DFA.

trickop raid he doid

the MaliCE 19

lapday and floricis wAs

as soreded and'strait as moo

brople

andly he" Weicker cormeried.

"Thin=s

hate

come lo a preings surre pase lahon

perle sian porchen this suri io ia

scaverion:

scrite and arbond thinks

sirance.

Busin?

equipmont

fan

be

word leially. There's no way this equip

ment ein be

word Ically.

Folkamp said "it anuldn't he within

the punico odItA as à narentics arcner"

do renew the legalily of the espiosi: e

muipment:

A ever meiro daird June 10, 1071. sirit

b:

drican idented as are under &

Macho!

Geniali

1:.75

Matpaig..

accraianyint

cainircus

Wat reaper are

firinsire

equipmort

in rared in

Lou in

LANDSLIDE IN CANADA - This is all 1%.

maios of a street in liposing a minis;

th.s

other

Hácx6 3:0

1 bring this to sour areaiion

in Ca:: 10u

miaterial.

it is s

planned for

Lot up

here.

Weriel!.

she said he trade anri sold

silen:

automatis

Br÷90s

firfian

countries with the appioral of lie dericoal

ancernment.

said

had

7e185

seen

Cuba Sceling

Trade For

"ClA Agent

NesTe 194110

a farmer 671.

pioyee had intereniod l helore Herbell

couid see it.

Cuba is within.

in cacharie

HerRoll said toe die had palärd dese?.

das, to both Morg iny and Concin. Corein,

PierBell sad pid bom car coutprich bod

never 1r03l

"Inu's nut in

• fur a deerans

a.

atter labir: pi

the sisaisinating beriness and nellier ari

ill

1," Weptall sail

Morrissey

could rot be reached for i

So

the

atriots said

• comment.

Ithere is o

Mcial or

Rarbara For Spirdoj,

ahnac. home ad.

, how'

the

dress is lisod as in addrees for BK. For irespond 8a 1u9 dier by lucan

laboratories, said in a reinonone incirlià

1.15

kill

Iniet.

•13e: nichi that sae tad gerbed as perisone •

ho her due nus

bard.

an.

5:9 9314

t0n frein her

M1orr.900

3ra°

Firety lom

ti:e

Stout

jira

1:ua'

Wichungtin

2.3

1975.

---

## Page 45

IA Agent Contacted on Alexandria Firm's Assassination Equipment

1919923011

cale conspirator E. Howard

itat! Wrest

Blure Jr. has been mention-

Conelr'& Involvement in the

incident raise serious new

amassed during the House states that the cara-onue

official

ed in connection.with an

Judiciary Committee's im-

questions about the opera-

"was but together

only

ler Central

D'empt by in Alexandria

peachment inquiry.

tions of federal law eriforce-

after we started working to

The conversation center-

Bether with

1o water.

firmy Po sell assassination

equipment to the U:S. gov-

ment and intelligence agen-

cics.

ed.on activittes in Saigon

Lou Conein."'

He later" states that "sore

emment.

pror to the coup that ousted

of this

former South

equipment

was

Sen. Lowell P. Welcker

He also questioned a

Vietnameso

demonstrated to Lou in this

Jr..

R-Conn.,

disclosed

statement by Conein that

i President Ngo Dinh Diem.

(Alexandria) office about

today that Lucian Conein,

the DEA planned 8o pur.

Concin was a hieh-ranking

three. wecks

director of special projeces

chase only electronic eaves-

CIA operative in Saigon at

The

the time of the 1963 coup.

memo was dated June 10,

for the Drug Enforcement

dropping devices from Fox.

1974.

Administration, viewed the

"I told the senator that,

The memo, said the cata-

equipment manufactured

Conein said.

"Yeah, I saw

this (assassination) stuff.

HUNT LATER used some

logue contained a "listing of

by the now-defunct Alexan-

of the information obtained

equipment that is available

cies of the United States

goverment, specifically in-

tended for application out-

side of this country.

"The items offered are ei-

ther

conccaled

into

"ALL EQUIPMENT In

everyday-type

objects or

Our

'astro"

category

is

packaged

simply as "black

box'

manufactured to the highest

pieces of equidment standards In terms of reli-

with no labels or identifica-

ability, dependability, life-

tion on the outside other than

the

time.

and

performance

necessary

actuator

switches and sensors. Upon

under most weatier varia-

tions," the catalogue states.

request, this equipment can

Is then states: "The infor.

be délivered in a 'sterile' mation contained berein is i

condition for foreign use.'

the brochure continues.

classilied by the manuine.

turer for U.S. government

use only.":

dria electronics firm. But

So what? I've seen a lot of

Concin denies he ever even

that

from Conein as background

and planned for Lou up here

kind of thing in my

day.""

for fabricating State De-

(Washington)."

considered buying any of

the equipmene.

Conein was a long-time

partment cables that impli-

cated the late

Wcicker released a cala-

CIA operative before mov.

President

• WEICKER.

SAID

the

John F. Kerinedy in Diem's

logue of the devices which

ing 10 the DEA with the

assassination.

Hunt

memorandum itself raised

was

doubis about Conein's stute-

included such things as ex-

assistance of Exil Krogh,

ploding cigarelle packages

former head of the White

working

for the

Nizon

ment that he had not consid.

ion"

and electronic booby trapy

House plumbers for whom

White House nt the time.

ered purchasing any of the

The catalogue released

assassination devices. And

for telephone receivers. The

Hunt worked:

by

Weicker

included

In July 1971, Conein had a

he said it stirred questions

equipment was manufac

memorandum to Mitchel

tured by the B.

R.'For

three-way telephone con-

about whether Conein still

Werhell Lidentilled

laboratories, which Weick-

versation with

flunt and

by

was working, with the CIA

er said went out of business.

Charles W. Colson, former

Welcker as a Georgia arms

despite his retirement.from

three wecks azo.

Whito

House.

• manufacturer and apporent

alde who

that agency in 1971.

pleaded guilty to.ohatruc

Boldler of fortune.

The

Tha

catalogue lists lis

THE SENATOR, & for-

tion of justice charges in

memo was wrillen by Mi. "'astro'

chuel Morrissey,

equipment

this

Co-owner

mer rember of the special

the trial of David Wilsberg

Way:

Sinate Watergate commit.:

A transeript ol the conversa-

of the Fox Laboratories, ac-

cording to Weicker.

"The devices have been

ice; charged that she exist..

tion is contained in evidence

designed and manufactired

ence uf the catalogue and

Is the memo. Morrissey: for sale 10 authorized egen-

SLEPTY REPURTER!

CALLO BE DANIEL ELSIES

..!:

1::.

---

## Page 46

THUESDAY, jANUARY 21, 1975

U.S. Aide Was Briefed on Assassination Techniques

BE NICHOLAS M. HORROCK .

Morrisay alri an unidentlied'aria: retangue modules. One crmpons

with Mrs

Barbara

soner: +3+009108788.5190

Yew Yor man no belail of the scress at each end secures dog Spindel.

The nome fox was

WASHINGTOS. Jan. 22-A

Fox Company:

which had offs on

u.:.

Top

frinoved

to ".irs

spindel's maiden

name

Via and Sess pack taude with explosive."

Munisey said. Me said that

• Enforcement

Administrairon.chat

presence details dod cerand irre sues ot surelence.

dorisse! said that lo he contmund to sell electronic

ar

said today tha: he

had been on

the

company's

rquipment

electronic the

bricted

07

described

that

as

have

been surveillance

ard that

ter idisidual.

equipment

and

rainlogue.

ropies were

pectronit

Isassinacion techniques by a'pri- equipment.

as- what the catalogue calls "asiro: Fecerai officials.

in the hands of

Mrs.

Spindel confirmed that

He derlined the company was no longer in

to ider:is the lio officiais to existence and said that she wag

Ivate manufacturer.of

wiretap-

Senaior Weicker has obtained the G.vertment acency they unawure

Mr.

Storrissey

had

pi.lg.and.buggu.g.equipment

1 memo that he said was fron

were canneried wich..

circulated a catalogue for such

The offcial, Lieur

Coi. Lucien the files of the B. R. Fox Com.

Mortissey also declined devices. Her hushand, the late

¿Conein,

acting.

director

and

of the pany. written to an official of a jo ident; the person who had bernard Spindel.

who formed

special

operatiors

field Georgia

¡support section of D.E.As in- that sais:

manufactures, introduced him to Colonel Co the B. R.

fox CompaDy, was

fernauona!

intelligence

divi-

"Enclosed le a calalog which nein.

The colonel said that he"often quoted as a wiretap ex-

sion

said that he

received the mas put together sinly after we.

•could call how he had learned pert.

briefing in May,

1974, from re, started working together with of the fex concern but that its

Siveral law enforcement of-

presentatives

of. the now

de-Lou

Conein.

wrole out this name might have

come from ficials and

elestronic

-experts

unct B.'R. For Corpany

line of

'astro' equipment withian acquaintance in Washington who were interviewed indicat;

Colonel.

Conein said he hadiyou and lou in mindy and be

Mir.

Sorrissey, who said that'ed that the desices as described

not asked for the briefing undicause of the nature of the devi- he hed a degree as an electron. in the catalogue appeared us-

had no interest in the

Nics

engineer, said that he de-jable only for assassinationg or

equip: ces. it is not being Rven to any

ment.

one else.

Some of this equip

signed the equipment in early: for the booby-trapping of pres

Several law enforsement offi-ment was demonsirated to Lou 1974 as an outgrowth of his mises.

cia!s

and

-Senate invesugators/in

this office about 3

said that this was the first time ago."

weeks work in the field of wiretaps:

One veteran industrial secu-

land mom bugs.

that he saw

they had seen evidence that a

Memo Is Sigried Mike'

Mr.

Nomisser, who also da fin demestic market or the de

domestic Federal agercy would

scribed himself as a lawyer. vices with privale companies.

even

look

at

assassination

equipment

The memo was das a gued said Er!

'ibmebcedtmmhemfi"Even on military installations

signed said tha: he belieued the rauin.t:

desianed,

which

high

security

Government

Served In Saigoa.

he agences, these types of booby.

Pentagon that harpart of the evidence said was an

electronic trigger-traps would be

inaporooriate.

According hied stares in Ito question whether the

Weickerjing

derive.

was legal as long you'd

never

know

who you

papers on

rela-las

is was not armed with animight injure," this source said

¡volvement

in

the

Irdochina|tionship hetween

Colonel

Co-

explosive.

He said that it-hed;

Colonel Concin said that ha

маг,

Colonel Coneig was a se-nein

and

the

assassination nonlechal applications to trig- became a consultant to the Bu-

nior operative of the Central In-equipment manufacturer was aiger

burglar

alarms

and otheriral of Narrotics and Dangerous

¡telligence Agency 1

Saigon in casual one.

"anti-inirusion" equipment.

Drugs in

1972

and

became

1963 and seried as liaison be-

When asked by a reporter

He said that

itween

the

United

he

would confull-time official

D.E.A.

in

States; ahout the memorandum,

Colo sider selling such devices only December, 1073. His nace came

Government and forces that de- nel' Corein said that he was lo the Federal Government: Helup

Watergate

posed

President •Ngo: Dinhishown it during an Interview added. however, that he does testimony wher it was disclosed

¡ Diem®

with Senator Weicker.

Ir..

Senalor: Lowell P. Weicker

'sell

electronic

sureillance that one of the Watergate bure

"I sold him I had no idea equipmer: po local police.

lalars. E. Howard Hunt Jr., had

Republican of Connecticut, the context in

which it

was

who las een concucuing an

written,

anu

Mir.

stortissey said that the mee with Colonel Cunein.

vestigation

of. C.I.d.

involve-

known

Mr.

hat

not Fox Company

was dissolved in lunt at the time was gathering

Morrissey before November.

ment

with

other

1974.

as a resuleinfonnation .to

prepare bogus

overment the sales demonsuation) I said ot mas-pement differences. He cables that implicated President

copy les, said

that be has

copy

the

catalogue

ajif I'was him [Senator Weicker], saidw tha: he had shared man- kennedy

in President iDem's

ofit would turn the memorandumlagemen: and control of therassassination in 1963.

astruments described lo Colo-jover to the F.B.I.

and let them

inel Conein.

investigate. I told him I would

When questioned by a repos.

De glad to take a polygraph oni

ter. Mr.

Weicker described the the matter.

devices as

"used for assassina-

Colonel Comein said that he

tion, pure and simple.

listened lu a detailer pres.

•There is no place in this enticion on the booby-trap, as

country for this sort of thing.'

(sassination devices, but he

he added

not "discourage" the manufac

Mr. Weicker said that he had

turer because he presumed that

brought the catalogue to the at.

as & licensed electronics com-

¡pany it. had the authority 1o

tention of John

Bartels,

sdmi i produce the explosive devices.

nistrator of the Drug Enforce-

Colonel Conein told Senator

ment Administration, and that'weicker, as he had a reporter.

had

interviewed

Colonel that

despite

the

¡Conein and the colonel's depu. of the

assassination

fly.

gear,

he

Sear! Frank. He said.

that had selected B.

Fox out ofi

¿she officials had assured him several

companies in.

that the

agency had not pur bugging

chased any of the devices.

this

equipment.

provide,

To

make

purcnase,

Colonel Conein?

Senator Asks Question

lignored

the

presentations of:

The Senator said shas he had;several

been sold that the agency's men:

31r.

beiter-known concerns'

Bartels,

the agency ad.

¿had done nothing to encourage, ministrator,

said that he

was!

the manufacturer to think thaticondurting

an internal inquiry

. he

might make a sale to their into the transaction.

Mr.

Morrissey

identified

agency.

copv of the catalogue obtained :

"Mo question was, why in the by

Th. New York

Times as 3

hell didn' her do sor thine to photostat of one that he iped

discourage him.

in the spring of 1974. The in :

said.

formal catain

nan a run men an hristodi merial deingue said' that the.

??'

---

## Page 47

meyerinear The since

"quintent

going

devices

de- dieliable

unbrid by Senator Weicker in:

rufioil.

fiTeléchore handsei incord

iSfiniature activata

wich

Colonel Conein,

asked about deiay

junre

the briefing.

said triat he had handser

.. use insate telestonele

nei solicited the briefing on as. ted arsec teace lord?

sassination

Fox's of insirument Handpiere

equipment,

and

wouldn'

fiCigarette pack

antidis

loudy that stuli with a 10.100: turbance explosio.

pole."

Flectmaics

explosive

macule

He continued:

"That stuff is.

inside

cirareile past: When the:

only pood in a

war.

and who's

sis is lified ar

maird in any,

goi a war? li was very sophisti.

manner.

the

expottie

cried

stuff.

Ther

had a tele joff."

phone that rouid be

triggered

gastodified

nashlight

joy remole control; If the wrong Everyready

antidisturbarce

unit

Standard,

person

picked up.

the

phone;

2D seil

fishlick:

you'd blow him up

has antidisturbance eiectronics!'

concealed inside where batieries!

Colonel Conein said that heihave been removed. Remainderi

Lad found the material "fascin-!

ating"

but

that

ne

had

said

¡of the battery space is paried

nothing to encourage the luea

istih explosive.

that the agency would purchase activated sensor.

@'Remote - controlled, lighs-

Crut. deliversi

thad.

such equipirent. He said that he a predeiermined charge across

purchased

about

$500

worth of audio equipment from

les output terminals.

when ac

the B. R. Fox Company. which

¡tisated from a remose location!!

he said could be used for bug-

lascording to its pre-ser

cade.

ging.

jUse

with explosive for

firing

upon the occurrence of certain.

said, cannot

The equipment he bought, he conditions relating to light in-

be

¡United States

used in the tensily."

without & courtl

q'Booby-trapped, 11-16

order but is for use in D.E.A'S plosive clip. Use: A-mechanical.

ex-,

foreign

operations.

however, that the gear had not

said. fly activated electronic chargel

been used, and I still have it in military item. Upon removal of

circuit is built into a commoal

my safe."

the single round in me mr byl

either by firing or

remoral, the

explosive!

concealed in the magazine li

Jetonated.®

"Fragmentation ball - anti-

disturbance whit. Unit is similar

[in ils operation as the anti-dis

turbance flashlight, BRF model

IFD-2.

The exception is in the

type of explosive charge..."

"Explosive black bor mod-

ules.

Flat black" finish or.

"salod 082

13800 12 25039

HDj8n49S

# wouns

SWORE Ny S3A3 3.178

Matar Dile desires

---

## Page 48

біляї

THE NEW YORK TINES

THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 1975

U.S. Aide Was Briefed on Assassination Techniques

By NICHOLAS S1. HORROCK

Senator Asks Question

"Enciesed is a catalo? which

The Senator said that he hadisas pu: togecher noly after we siniature. activaier

q"Telephone hardset inserti

WASHINGTON,

"been told that the agency's men stared wordirg

with time,

22-a had done nothing to encourage Lou

sogether

win delay. use insice selephone

top official of the Federal Drug tre ranutactuser to think attire classro equipmen: WiS hardser.

Automatic

charse!

Administration

he might make a sale to their, you and. Lou in

with, fired arSEC following lifungi

mind.

said today that he had been

icalise of the nature of the devi.

and be lot instrumere hardpiece.

briefed

what

have

ragency.

been:

as.

electroris

•sy question was, why in the ces, it is aot being River to are.

"Cigarette pack

- antidiso

turbance explosive.

Electronics!

described

• a5::

¡hell didn't they do someihing io'one eise..: Sure n! this equip.;

sassination techniques by'a pri- discourage him," ir. Weicker men: was demonstrated to trulyna

explosive moduie.

vate manufacturer of wiretap-

said.

in shis office about

weeks inside cigarette pack.

packed|

When the!

ping and bugging equipment.

One of two men who briefed aso."

pack is lifted or moved in any

The official, Lieut Col. Lucien

manger,

the: explosive is set

;Col..

Conein, Michael Sorrisses:|

* Memo is Signed "Milke'

¡ off."

Conein,

acuing director

o1.

the

told a reporter that he had met

special.

operations

and

field•

The memo was dated Junci

e"sioditied flashiight"

with him for three hours, show: 10.

support seccion

of D.E.A's

*1974, and

was. signedi antidisturbance urit.

Standard

ing.

him audio

equipment and slike.

/ Everyready 2D cell flashiight

ternational

intelligence.

• has antidisturbance clectronics

breting in Nay. Iot, red rel derard by senator Weicker in that kas dated he were concend insidence elateries

have been removed. Remainder

presentatives of the now. de

unct B.R. Fox Company.

de. one concity are bud ten a ce cast on i e one space is pacred

I not 2sred for the biding endite oneid tree of tort

that he had nein

cquipment manufacture

q'Remoie - controlled,

Fox's: casual one.

had no interest.in the equip

wouen't

ment.

Several law enforcement offi-

Touch that sult wi got but i is and if cor

activated sensor, Unit delivers'

asied by a repoter; a predeicmined charge across:

its output terminals,

when ac-.

nel Conein

cials and

Sciate investigators;

that he was! -tivated from a remote location!

said that this was the first time

He continued. "That stuff is shown i during an interview;

according to its

pre-ser code.,

they had

seen evidence that'a

only good in a war, and who's with Senator Weicker,

Use

with

explosive for firing

'gat a war? it was very sophisti-

"I 10!d him I had so idea

upon the occurrence of certain.

domestic Federal agency.wouid

the

contex.

even..

look i at.

cated stuff.

They

had 3

in which

WaS

AssaSSina?on

conditions relating lo light in-

equipment.

phone that could be

rele

triggered

wnitten,

and hat

/ had

tensity."

клоня Мі.

by remote control. If the wrong

Morrissey

not!

(before!

Served In Salgoi

4"Booby-trapped,

$9-16

ex-

person

picked

According

to

the Pentagon'

UP.

the

phone.

the saies demonstration]: I saidi

you'd blow him.up.

if I was him (Senator Weicker).!

plosive clip. Use: A mecharical

ly activated

papers

on

United States'

electronic

charge:

I would turn

Colonel Concin said tha: he,

voliemoni

the memorandum, circuit is built

into a common

ihe.: indochina

over io lie F.B.1. and lit iren

war, Colonel Concin was a sei

had found the material "fascin-

military item. Upon removal ofi

nior operatise of the Central In-l

ating."

but

that

he

had

said!

investigate. i told him i would line singie round in the maga-

nothing to encourage the idea the maiter.

be giad to take a polygraph on zine.

either

by

firing

or

by

telligence Agency in Saigor in

thand removal.

the

explosive.

1963 and served as liaison be-

that the ageney would parchase

Colonel Conein said tha: Leilconcealed in

tween

the

United

States:

such equipmcut. He said that he had listened to a detalled pres.

the

magazine is

had

purchased

about

5500

detonated."

Government and forces that de-

posed

worth us audio equipment from

entation on the booby-tray, as.

'Fragmentation bal! - anti-

President • Ngo ...Dinh!

the B. R. Fox Compans:

sassinaion devices,

which,

but he didi! disturbance unit. Unt is similari

Diem®

"discourage"

the manblac-tin its operation as the arti-dis.

Senator Lowell P

Weirker!

Republican of Connecticut,

he said could be used for bug turer because he presumed that turbance flashlight, BRF model

ging.

as a licersed electronics com.

who has een

conducting an in

The equipment he houghs, he pany

iFD•2.

The exception is in

it had the authority

cannot

be

used

*te. Terpeseechares in the

vestigation of

C.I.A.

involve-said.

ment

wich

other

overnment;

United States without a court,

in, the: produce the expiosive devices.

d'Expiosive blaci box mod-

Colonel Conen told Senator

agencies, said that he

has: 8:

order but is for use in D.E.A.'s

Weicker, is he

ules....

Flat biacis finish 01

had a reporter.

сору

the

catalogue

forcign.

operations.

said. that

despite she

presenianion

nstrumenis

described

nel Concin-:

o Colo

however, that the rear had not. of the

assassination

re!

been used, and. "I still have i: in had seiected B R. Fox out ofi

my safe."

When questioned by a repo?-

several companies lo provide;

Weicker described. the

The

briefing

for

Colonel bugging equipment.

mare!

ter,

tAr.

devices as "used for

255355128

Conein wag conduced be Me. dis

purchase.

tion, pure and simple."

ignored

Colonel Corers!

presentaliars

c!,

Morrissey and an

•There is no place in thisi New York man on behalf of the

country for this sore of. thing."

Pariels,

Fox Company.

agency

he

the added.

cos in Alexandria, Va., and.fcw

conducting an iriernal inguiryl

Mr. Weicker said that he had! Yurk Cily.

Sir. aforrissey said into the transaction.

brought the catalogue to the ai

that he had presented deinis

tention of John Bartels,

admi-i on

the

company's electronic

Mr.

Morrisser identified ai

copy of the cataiogue obtained.

Inistrator of the Drug Enforce.

surveillance

equipmen:

and

The Yew Yorks

Times as ai

iment Adminisuration.

and that una; the catalogue calis

the

had interviewed

Colonel equipment."

"astro

photosial of one that he tracd;

in the spang dó 1974. The sa-:

Conein and the colorel's depu-i

Sonaior Welcker has obtained

formal catalogue said sat ine

ily,

Seati Frank.

He said

that:

a memo that he said was from priatenal could no: be delivered

the officials

had assured him.

the files of the B. R.

Fox Con-

for two weeks after order and

¡that the agency had noz puro: pang. written to an official of a jwas for sale onis to the linited

chased any of the devices:-

Georgia

arms .. manufactures, Sinies Gorernment. The foilow.

that says:

ing are excergis on each item

3.26

available:

---

## Page 49

FBI Cable dated 14 JAlj'25

subject:

Riaddin N. AL-TRYYAR

INTERNAL: SECURITY -IRAQ

---

## Page 50

document dated. 31

DEC: 1966, Büreal File

2-156., Re: Rolando Arcadio

riasferror Rojas, Interral

Security - Haiti-Cuba;

Neutrality Matters

(From miami)

---

## Page 51

TO

S- NO: 9 WILL CHECK GLASSIELLATION TOP AND BOTTOM

100105-07171

L CONFIDESTIR

SECHIT

COFICIAL ROUTING SLIF

NAME AND ADDRESS

C/ LA/CAR.

DC/ LA/ CAR

DATE

:17

1799%

INITIALS

SP

C/LA/CA (info) 1700%

DCILA Cinto

•TACTION

P APPAOVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCN

FLE

INFORMAMION

PREPARE

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Ted Kcussos

Roussos

to

in Junc.

picking. up

for the EUR

is an old friend of

and originally introduced

and

is considering

ROUSSOS on contract

Desk.

Ruth

File.

FOLO MERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS ANO PHONE NO

3.72

CONFIDESTIAL

DATE

LXCLASSIFIFD

5935* 237

the previous editions

SECRET

140)

---

## Page 52

SECRET

30 September 1974

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Meeting with Theodore Roussos on 31. August

1974

1.

During subject meeting Mr. Roussos told me that

Mitchell Livingston WERBELL I11 called him from Atlanta

on 29. August and again on 30 August.

Werbell told Roussos

tnat he was leaving for Athens on

Saturday, 31 August in

order to try

to sell arms to the Greek government.

Werbell.

wanted Roussos. to be his

advisor in this venture and to

go to

Athens:

Werbell

indicated that the total deal could

reach

$5,000,000.

• Roussos

told

Werbell that he would

check

with-his

"friends" (the Agency) before giving

Werbell

an

answer.

Nerbell asked

Roussos to see if

his

in

favor

of such

arms

deals or. not." Roussos

"friends"

were

hạđ

generally explained

this call

to me

on

the telephone

on 29 August.

My reaction

on the telephone was negative

-to Roussos

participation in

such a deal, and he had

conveyed this

negative reply

to Werbell by telephone

before: Roussos

and I met personally on 31 August.

2.

During

our personal meeting,

Roussos

explained

that Werbell

intended

to pursue arms

sales legally

and

via

the

required U.S. Government channels.

He sald that

Werbell

does

have the capabilities to design and produce

weapons

because of his

access to

arms

factories.

I told

Roussos

that Werbell's

nessiactivities

were his own

concern.

i strongly

ad

sed

against his getting involved

in this

deal.

explained

to him the problems which

the

U.S. Government was having

1n

Greece and the current wave

of

anti-Americanism and press

attacks

against the ClA.

If Roussos. as a former

ClA officer ell

known in Greece

became involved in

such a venture.

a flap of substantial

proportions

was likely

complete

with widespread press

play.

Roussos understood and agreed not to

get involved.

E2 IMPDET

CL

BY

035682

ECRET

---

## Page 53

SECRET

said

barbe?!

would. probahly.cal? him from Athens that

weekend

and he would give Werbell a final

negative reply.

Kerbell planned to meet with Greek Defense Minister

Averoff:

Roussos said that if. the U.S. wanted to stop

tnis. deal that we should contact Averoff directly..

From what Werbell said,

Roussos belleves: the arms

requested by thi Greeks would ue for guerrillas and

not main force enits.

AC/E/GC

Distribution:

_ - Werbell 201

- Roussos

Personnel

File

S E. C

R

3.27

---

## Page 54

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA:

SUBJECT:

Deputy Director for Operations

Mitchell Livingston Werbell 1l1

1.

Mitchell Livingston Werbell Ill, who served briefly

with the OSS in WWIl, has been

for the past several

years in arms dealings and swash-buckling promutional

actlvities which have brought him to the attention of various

government agencies.: He has always remained within the

law byá fine edge.

His latest scheme involves a Movement

for the Independence of Abaço, an island to the East of the

Bahamas.

For.this.he has-obtained apparently substantial

financial support from wealthy Americans and from a British

Lord.

2.

Werbell operates through a number of front businesses

in Washington,.

D.C.

and in varietta,

one outfit named

central information Agency iciagre he owns

In all

his dealings, Werbell broadly hints that he has current

connections with the Agency.

We have just learned that

Werbell may be in possession of a one-line note

from you.

stemming from a chance meeting with you at an oSs alumni

dinner, reading something like "good to see you again."

3.

Three retired Agency employees are currently employed

by Herbell in various capacities.

This past spring these

employees sought contact with the Agency basically to report

their roncern over the legality o: derbell's activities.

quickly established that

the matter was outside our charter

and asked these retirees to report directly to the federal

Bureau of Investigation..

He also finished the Bureau with

all

the pertinent information in ou: files.

It is to be

noted that somewhere in Werbell's scheme of things there

appears the ubiquitous Andrew st.

George, who plans to write

a story

on Abaco for True magazine.

1s/ Darld A. Frillipa

David A. Phillips

Chief

Western

Herisphere

file:

301: 259910

Division

CC :

DDCI

SECRET

iiin

E2

IMPDET

CL BY 010116

---

## Page 55

SECRST

Subject:

Mitchell Livingston Herbell 11l

DDO/C/WH/7/A.Spera:cab/1497 (9 Aug 74)

Distribution:

Orig &

Addressee

DDCI

Exec.

Registry

DOO

ADDO

CI/OPS

OPS/LSN

C/OS/SSD/SB

C/WHD

WH/Security

• C/WH/7

WH/7/CAR Chrono

201-259910

189-9-1

WK/7 (Friends of

Abaco)

SECRET

3,21

---

## Page 56

FsI documint Fron

fitlanta, ou

dated 9 Hug: 19.74

(notifile)

Sutjecti mitchall- Livingston Wert!!;

---

## Page 57

S.CRST

14 August 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Call from John MULDOON

1.

Approximately 1655 hours, 13 August 1974, a call

was received on C/WH/7's extension, 351-4221 by

the

Secre-

tary oL

She

answered the extension

by number and the male voice asked to speak tol

The secretary asked who was calling and the caller replied

"John MULDOON.": The secretary then replied that she was

sorry butl

couldn't be reached.

In response to

MULDOON's query,

"Why not?" and before the secretary could

reply, MULDOON became obstinate and asked who he was speak-

ing to.

replied "his secretary" and then

added that

was away.

When MULDOON asked where

he was, the secretary replied

that she was not at liberty

to discuss that.

• Then MULDOON asked to speak to

deputy and was

told that there was no one around whom

MULDOON could speak to.

(C/WH/7 was on leave and AC/WH/7

was in the PMC meeting.)

MULDOOM apparently didn't believe

retire secret deepled within see pees

was expected to

The secretary replied

is on TDY) and then asked if she could take a

message

to give to

Tupon his return.

MULDOON

became belligerent at this point, apparently thinking he

was getting

the

"run around'

and

replied, "just tell him

to talk to Jack Anderson" and hung up.

2.

AC/WHD was briefed on the above telephone call at

1740 hours, 13 August.

He decided no

action should be taken

on

13. August, but would like to meet with C/WH/T, I

on 14 August.

3. At 0950 hours, the following met wich AC/WHD:

In

view of C/WHD's previous decision that no further

Agency

contact should be made with MULDOON, RUSSOS, or MACKEM it

was

decided that no one would return MULDOON's call. How-

ever, AC/WHD would brief ADDo, C

• Jon the above threat,

and WH/7 would

ask OPS/LIAISON to telephonically pass to the

FBI the fact that MULDOON again contacted the Agency

threatened

to go: to

"Jack Anderson.

and

A copy of

memoran

dum

is

being sent to OPS/LIAISON for chis purpose.

3.11

E2 IMPDET

CL 8Y 010116

---

## Page 58

SECRIT

Subject:

Telephone Call from John MULDOON

4.

At AC/WHD's request, WH/Security rechecked the

files

on the

three

former Agency employees to determine whether

they were Staff Employees.

All three were former Staff

Employees.

MULDOON retired on medical disability: RUSSOS

retired and then was rehired on a contract basis in February

1971 and contract terminated in September 1973; and MACKEM

was

"separated as excess" in October 1973.

This information

was

passed to AC/WHD to brief ADDO.

Acting Chief, WHIT

DDO/WH/7/R.Lehman:cab/1956

Distribution:

orig

WH/7 (FOA File).

WH/Security

WH/7/CAR

189-9-1

OPS/LIAISON

EChET

3.19

---

## Page 59

B5:024-4.09

211101098

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20505.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

: Intelligence Division

: Mitchell Livingston WERBELL, I1!

. Reference is made to TOFIRDB-315/07634-74,

dated io August 1974, which reported on the growing

concern of the: Bahamian Government about renewed

secessionist activity in Abaco.: In addition to the

information in refererce, the official Bahamian

service, which was the source of the above report;

• also provided a representative of this Agency on

August 1974, the following text of a memorandum.it

prepared for the Secretary of the Bahamian Cabinet:

"Please be advised that on 3 August

1974, information has been received from

contacts that Chester

Cheste: GARY, has recently

been in touch with Mitchell L. WERBELL,

has reported that WERBELL is still planning

unspecified revolutionary activity in Abaco.

reported that he has the support

of some former U.S. Government employees

and that he is trying to recruit a former

services officer to promote revolu

activity in Abaco (the name of

Robert ARMSTRONG has been put forward as a

possibility).

There is also

a suggestion

that Robert VESCO might be financing some

of the activity."

The "overseas contact" described above was

identified Dy the Bahamian Service as the British

MI-5 representative in Washingten, D.C.

The Bahamian

service did not identify the

Government employees"

referred to

3, 18

CLASSIFIED BY 010116.

EXEMPT FROM GENFRAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E.0. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY

58 (2).

IMPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

Dialianion

un is de so mind

---

## Page 60

3.

The files of this Agency reflect that Robert

ARMSTRONG and. Chester ZOCHOWSK! are known to your

Bureau and their

involvement in this matter has been

reported in previous correspondence. to this Agency.

Aithöugh the Bahamian Service reported ZOCHOWSKI's

alias as.

refers s. "Chester GRAY. it is believed that this

The above information is being

furnished to

your Bureau. for whatever action and further dissemi

nation you deem appropriate.

The information, however.

may not be discussed with

any foreign nationals.

including the British and the Bahamians.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

David H.

Blee

CIRA-0444-74

3,18

---

## Page 61

DDO/WH/7/ÇAR/

Distribution:

Orig.

1

2

Fcab/7493/1956 (12 August 1974)

FBI

OPS/LSN

CIOPS/WH

201-259910

C/OS/SSD/OSB

C/WHD

WH/Security

WH/7/CAR

Chrono

1•89 - 9-1

E/BC

ADDO

DDO

DDO / RegIStri

AH/7/FOA File

BASED ON:

(In 330060) dated 9 August 1974

OBJ - KI

3.18

---

## Page 62

Est document from San Diego

datia → August, 1974

(As FBi file)

Subject: mitchell Givirgston, werbell,

III

---

## Page 63

- SECRET/SENSITIVES.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

=010 74-4068

# AUG 191

MENO RANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

:.

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Intelligence Division

Mitchell Livingston WERBELL, IlI

Reference is made

to your memorandum dated

6 August 1974; Subject: "Mitchell Livingston WERBELL,

Ill,

Internal Security

- Abaco;

Neutrality Matters.

Abaco:" your reference (CI-3) 62-108665.

2.

Authorization.is granted for your Bureau to

disseminate

the attachment to Reference (your Büreau's

conceandus dable zi du the Department of stage, ene

Georgia,

•Bureau of Customs, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and

Firearms and the Criminal Division of the Department

of Justice.

We would, however, appreciate your

limiting the description of

source AT T-l as being

simply another government agency.

3.

This Agency is most appreciative of your Bureau's

handling of this sensitive matter and particularly the

opportunity afforded this Agency to coordinate prior to

further dissemination of this material.

We will be most interested in receiving any

additional information

concerning this matter which may

to your Bureau's attention.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

David H. Blee

CIRA-0439-74

•=.!?

CLASSIFIEC BY 010116.

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE CF E.0.

11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY

5B (2). ' IMPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

---

## Page 64

DDO/KH/7/CAR

Distribution:

Orig. & 1

• FBI

.2 - OPS/LSN

- CIOPS/KH

201-259910

C/OS/SSD/OSB

C/WHD

Wh/ Security

WH/.7/CAR Chrono

•789-9-1

C/DCD

ADDO

DDO

1

DDO/Registry

1 -

FOA File

:ar: 7493/1956 (9 August 1974)

BASED ON:

FBI Memorandum dated 6 August 19.74

Subject:

"Mitchell Livingston WERBELL,

III,

Internal Security - Abaco:

Neutrality

Matters

Abaco;"

your reference (CI-3) 62-108665

SECRET/SENSITIVE 3.17

---

## Page 65

FBI document dated 6 Rug., 1974

from wastington. D.c.

suredi file- ((73) 62-108665

Subject: Mitchall kiringstor Werkell, III

Interrai Searity-Abaco

Neutral ty Matters-Abaco

---

## Page 66

CONFISANTA!

DX-LECILE

30 July 1974

MENORANUUM FOR: Chlef, Western Hemisphere Divigion

SUBJECT:

OMitchell Liviagston Karbell and ile

Maployuent of Former CIA haployeen

REF FRENCE:

CTRA-0371-74; Subject: Mitchell Liviagston

1. • On 29 July 1974, W1ll1am Mchonnell, FBI liaison

officer, delivered the attached FBI memorandun to OPS/LST.

• In delivering this memorandun, lchonnell stated that whereas

the last sentence of paragraph 3 reads. "by individuals des

cribed as former United States Government employees," Gra?

actually said

that Ferbell had indicated that he was beicz

assisted by former CIA enployees.

The FBI chose to use the

term

"former United States Governnent employces" in the a'-

tached memorandun in order to 'make the memorandun less sea-

sational."

This memorandun should be read in conjunction with

CIRA-0371-Zk subject:

Mitchell Livingston Ferbell Ill, dated

27 June 1074.

The FBI requests nuthorization to forward a copy of

CIR:-0371-74 to the Departgent of Justice.

As. this memorandun

was forwarded to the Bureau for its information only, your vierg

on its passage to the Department of Justico are solicited.

FBI plans to ask the Departant of justice if the Departea:

wishes the Bureau to investigate Mitchell Warbell for possible

violation of the Neutrality Act.

Signed:

C7OPS/LSN

RECORD GORY

F2

IMPI

CL BY 054698

3 2 1477

201-254410

---

## Page 67

DDO/OPS/LINAL

J/ck

Distribution:

O&1 - Addressee

1-

Chief, OS/SSD

TH/Security

1

•#H/7/CAR

1

IP/AN = 201-259910

•1

..OPS/LSN

OpS Reading Board

"ra.

104102:9

i miss

(30 July 74)

20ur8:

1.8,

n't

'!::

..!.

1.0:

---

## Page 68

«SECRET/SENSITIVE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

6 AUG 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Intelligence Division

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

A .

B .

Conversation between Mr. william

McDonnell, FBI Liaison Officer and

Mr. F.l.G. Coleman of this Agency

on 29 July. 1974.:

F61 New York Report dated 19 July.

Subject as above.

1.

Authorization is granted for your Bureau to pass

a copy of CIRA-0371-74 dated 27 June 1974, Subject as

above, to the Department of justice for its use.

We wish

to make it clear that the former Agency. employees mentioned

in paragraph 2 of that report:

John Patrick MULDOON and

Theodore John ROUSSOS, provided their information voluntarily.

with the intent of seeking the advice.of this Agency on the

legality of the proposed venture of the Friends of Abaco

(FOA) :

Both men were advised to avoid contact with the

FOA and to report their contacts

to the Federal Bureau of

Investigation.

2.

This Agency has not initiated any further contact

with

the individuals

named above or with baltai joseph lacken,

the third former

employee approached by the FOA.

MACKEM,

however, did himsel

contact this Agency in an attcmpt to get

an official policy on the activities of the foA. Me was

CLASSIFIED BY 010116.

EXEMPT FRO! GEMERAL DECLASSIFICATIO!

SCHEDULE OF F.O.

11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5B

i2).

TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

3.19

SECRET/SENSINE

261-251910

---

## Page 69

SECRET/SENSITIVE

informed that the. case comes under FBI jurisdiction,

that

this Agency has no official involvement, and that all

information

le had on the matter had been made available

to your.

Bureau..

He was advised at that time

to repert

his contacts and any

information he had to your Bureau..

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

1s/. David A. Fh!111p9

David A. Phillips

• CIRA-0432-74

SECRET/SENSITIVE

3,14

---

## Page 70

SECRET/SENSITIVS

DDO /WH/7/CAR//

Distribution:

Orig

: cm:7493/1956 (5 August 74)

FBI

OPS/LSN

CIOPS/WH

201-259910

C/OS/SSD/OSB

C/WHD

WH/Security

WH///CAR Chrono

189-9-1

BASED ON:

C/OPS/LSN Memo to C/WHD dated

30 July 1974

Subject:

Mitchell Livingston

HERBELL and

his Employment of Former Agency

Employees

SECRET/SENSITIVE 3,14

---

## Page 71

SECRET

1860.

Chief of station, l

XX

Chief, lesters Herdsphere Gluision-

Mitchell Liringston HERBELL. Ill:

1.

For your background information,

attached under

separate cover is one copy each of the following documents

•concerning Subject:

a. CIRA-0371-74 dated 27 June 1974 - ?

Do. LNERGO. New York memo dated 19 July 1974

In forwarding the 19 July New York memo mentloned above,

LNERGO reported that in the last sontence of paragraph 3, GrAY

actually said that VERBELL had indicated he was being assisted

by former SHERALD employees.

LHERGO chose to substitute LisUZZ

In order to 'make the memo less sensational."

3.

A copy of CIRA-0371-74. 1s being passed to the Department

of Justice.

Attachments:

•As stated

above. u/s/c

Distribution:

.2 - Cos,

(w/atts, u/s/c)

CROSS SUTRINCE TO

DISPATCH STREET DO MUNGER

UFPS- 419

CLASSIFiCATION

SECRET

cilKia

csit.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 010116

DATE

5 August 1974

MOI HUE RUNATE.

201-2529 Guil

14:

7493

125:

Internal

Distribution:

XH/REG

C= 201-259910

w/0.::

111-8

1

189-9-14/1-5 above

WH/7/CAR/Frignes

of Abaco

File

w/o

3:1092, 9:0!

at:

•13.

53

16 THAT

3.13

A3 S11

---

## Page 72

cd-idonor

Fs1 do urent doted 19 Jily 1974

from. Neus Zork

subiect: Miterail Lirineston

ierkall, Iit

Intirral Seuirityy-Abaco

Neutrality Mattar-Rbico

---

## Page 73

¿CAADENTAl

1 AUG 19/4

TO:

FROM:

SUBJ RCT:

Director.

Federal Biresu of Investigation

Attention:

Intelligence Division

Deputy Director for Operations

Traces Roquested by Mr. Wayne Yrankenfield

Thie senorindus le in response to trace requeste

made by Mr. Wayne Frankenfield of the General Investigative

Division on 29 July 1974.

- 2.

The files of this office reveal no pertinent identi

fiablo information on:

Advance Security Corporation of Atlanta, Georgia

Toward GIBSON of Georgia

Security Defense Syates of Marlotta, Goorgla

Nothing la known of the Central Investigativo Agoncy,

except as reported by the fBl.

301.0359710

4.

The files of thia office contain considerable informa-

tion on Mitchell Livingstoo'WERBFLL III, born 8 March 1918 1n

Philadelphia, Pa.

The majority of thie information was recolved

Irow the FBI.

This office previously furnished the Bureau: infor

mation on Forbell under CSCI-3/773317 of 24 October 1962,

subject

WARBLL, Mitchell L.: and CSCI-316/02323-69 Of 27 JuDo 1969, Bub

Ject WIRBELL, Mitchell Livlagston IlI.

Verbell has never been enployed by this Agency nor does

the Agency have any operational interest 10 hia..

Lieutenant In the Sigoal Corps In the China-Burma tbeater in

V7 Il, berbell was assigged to CSS Iron April to December 1945.

In August 1959, this office considerod using Verbell as a source

of inforaation on revolutionary activities in the Caribboan aroa, l

i12

RECORD C:

F2 IMPDFT

• CL BY 054698

Cl Aug 74

301-25-8710

listen

---

## Page 74

CORICENTIAL

particularly Cuba, but terminated Its consideration of his

possible

use in October 1959. Frow Necenber 1965

to Novembar

1966,

Ferboll contacted thig

Agency's Donestic Collection

Divisior

in Coral Cables, Florida to voluntarily offer infor-

antion.

6.

serbell has boon assessed an an unscrupulous booler

dealer.

a promotor of grandiose schemes, a man tho lives beyond

bis means, and a high pressure advertleing and promotion man.

He has repeatedly misrepresented himgolf as both an employee

of the US, government and the CIA.

As an arus dealer, he has

bron Involved with numerous Latin American governments and oxile

no one in maland at day:

atteneting to sell the

governmont arms

and a program to neutralize the communist threat

in that country.

Herbell oporated a publie relationa firm 1o Atlanta which

went into bankruptcy in 1959.

le subsequently bocame Vice Presl

dent and Director of Renearch and levelopment of SIONICS,

of Atlanta, Goorgia and

later becano a partner in Defense Systems

Intornational of Powder Spriogs, Georgia.

For further information on Herbell, you are referred to

tho Department of Defense

and the Departent of State.

901090÷354

The indices of this office reflect a Stepben

Van' CLEAVE,

President of Intolligence Services, ltd.,

Suite 11-B,

Weucon Rd. N.F., Atlanta, Georgia; telephone AC 404-253-7493.

The document concerning Van Cleave Is charged out, and so are

sooking to locate it.

John Patrick WULDOM Is, as statod 10 our CIRA-0371-74

of 27

June 1974, subject Mitcholl Livingston Werbell III, & I0r-

Her Agency.

employee.

For further inforsation on Muldoon, you

are referred to this Agency's Office of Security.

CIR-316/01815-74

C/OPS/LSN/L

Distribution:

081 - Addressee

2 - OPS/LSN

- IP/AN

Ick

(1 August 1974)

2

3.12

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 75

MEMOR NEUM! FOR: Associate General Counsel, OGC

VIA

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Deputy Director for Operations

Mitchell Livingston NER BELL II1

jour memorandüm of 24 February 1976,

subject as cove

Per refezence recuest, we are forwaruing :

infornation in our files concerning contacts that have

taken place betieen this Acency and WER BELL.

2.

The following is a summary of all

DID Contact

directly with KER BELL

which cook place in 1959:

A. 6. July 1959 Nezorandun to C/KH Division

signed by

stated that General

Cabell

_to resort that HER BELL had

Called him.

carted BeLL discussed with General Cabell

a trip KER BELL had taken to the Dominican Republic

and offered to come to lashingion at his own expense

to discuss the trip.

No cormitments were made to

NER BELL by General Cabell.

A I Jul 1959 Venorandum of Conversation

signed by

stated that hER BELL was

with SEE too mation concerning end bominican

Republic, Fidel Castro, Fulgencio Batista and

General Pedraza.

C.

A S July 1959 Nerorandum of Conversation

ioned by.

stated that on & July 1959

DuTing

called NER BELL te set up an appointment.

the mecting,

KER BELl has told

that the

Unjied

States ould noi suprort any rerolutionary

acrivities

by General fourasa.

lie has also told

that tie U.S. will observe its incernational

obligations concerning Cura and. Pouraza, and that

3,45

---

## Page 76

the. U.s. would not overlook any violations by

Pedraza

or his tollowers of the neuttality laws

said that the arener had some interest in

the possibility of his (VER BELL's) working

for us as an intelligence gatherer under terms

to be negotiated after be obtained a security

clearance on him.

pointed out that the

Agency was not attempting to limit his actions

in connection with the Doninican Republic, nor

was itzassuming any responsibility for those

matters he carried out in his on behalf.

dictated a Secrecy Agreement to him and had him

sign

it.

d..

A 9 July 1959 Negorandum for the Record

sagned by

reported that Subject

called him on 9 July T059 from New York.

'WER; BELL

7 further infornation on Loos, fu,

the representative of a Colonel

Frei,' fnu, of the

Swiss army

tho had 1, 000 men

available for duty

as soldiers.

20 July 1959 Memorandum for the Record

signed by

reported that HER BELL

• from Miari on 20 July

to ask about

the Agency picking up the tab for his forthcoming

trip to the Dominican Republic.

They discussed

his clearance which had not come through.

Record signed by

A 3 August 1959 Memorandum for the

Jreported that

on 24 July 1959 WER BELL called for

Since l

was on leave,

took

the call.

KER BELL gaveL

]further infor-

mation concerning Pedraza and Batista.

called WER BELL back that erening

to

tell ham

that if he obtained further information to

roport it to Mr.

00 Contacts

Representative in Miani, until Mr.

returned

to Hashington.

N 5 August 1959 Sonorandum for the Record

signed byl

_stated that WER BELl phoned

him on 5 august 1959 to ast if there was any nons

clearance.

KER BELL said he wanted to go

Dominican Renublic. soon,

and would

pick up

his expenses.

told there

3,45

---

## Page 77

14-00000

-3.

Jand HER BELL discussed the Dominican

Republic and Cuba.

On 3 August

WER BELL and told him that his clearance had not

been granted

and that he should sot predicate his

activities on the expectation of the clearance at

any given tine.

WER BELL said insi the

was air: lifting and droppirs naterial into

A 9 September 1959. Memorandum for the

Record signed by.

reserted that

KER BELL

called Flores

on 9 Septeaber 1959 to

provide infornation on Cuba.

He was told by

Flores that his clearance had nöt yet been

processed.

According to a 23 Septenser 1959

Memorandum for the Record signed by

WER BELL called

Jon 9 Septerber 195920

ask if his clearance had come through since

he wanted the Agency to finance his trip to

the Dominican Republic. He was sold it had

not. WER BELL told

Jabout: sone people

who had been discussing the

of U.

S. dollars and Cuban pesos

for use in

connection with Cuban revolutionary activities.

He

was

told by l

J to contact

he FBI.

13 September KER BELL had phoned |

_Jat home

to say

that the FBI had referred him to the

Secret

Service on the counterfeiting

aspect,

and that no one seemed particulari!

interested

in the gun running..

The Secret Service asked

him to go to Miami

at his own

expense to obtain

further information on the matter and hER BELL

asked

advice.

said

that he could

not influence him one war or the ocher since he

was not in a position to direct his activities,

but felt he might be better off to take no áction.

He was told that l

would be in couch with

him as soon as he had any further infornation

concerning our possible use of hin..

A 13 October 1959 Menoranium for the

Record signed by

states that

WER BELi phoned him on 25 September lose do report

on Cuha.

On 2 October 1959,

talied with

WER BEL! ho phone and

corninated tie relationship.

The following undated memorandurs are also contained in

WER BELL's file:

3.45

---

## Page 78

3 .

A Nemorandum for the Record signed by

reports. that bER BELL called

on

13 August

1959 t0

discuss Cuban actitities in Miami.

This memorandum also records that WER BELL phoned

again on 26 August 1959 at which time activities

in the

Dominican Republic and Cuban activities in

Miami were discussed.

HER BELL also

asked about the

status of his clearance, and was told it had not yet

come through.

A letter signed "w" addressed to "Tom"

gave "w's" location

and some

information concerning

and Castro.

(This letter is probably in

the 1959 time frame-)

A Memorandum of Conversation sicned by

reports that WER BELL called

Jand

save his location.

The status of WER BELL'S

clearance: was discussed. ändl

Itold him it

nad not yet come through.

WER BELL gare

some information concerning-Batista

(ThiS

memorandum probably is in the 1959 tine frame.)

d.

An unsigned report.

apparently from

PER BELL, gave

a summars of his contacts ano

activities during a trip to the Dominican Republic.

(This report is probably in the 1959 tine frame.)

A 17 December 1963 dispatch from

rE Tied that Station voc of fo ful

recently met

J' to further details.

of the mecting

were reported.

According to the CS file on hER BELL,

three former

Agenc!

employees were contacted in 1974 by WER BELL and other

representatives of a group called "Friends of Abaco

a group allegedly adrocating the secession of the istand of

the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.

The three former

employees contacted

are:

a. John Patrick Muldoon, retired fröm

CIA en 20 March 1972.

b.

Theodore John scussos, retired from ClA

on 51 July 19:0.

He was rehired on a

contract in February 1971..

His contract

kins

terminated

in September 1973.

3.45

---

## Page 79

c..

halter Joseph Mackem, separated from

CIA on 31 October 1973.

Mr.

Muldoon

contacted Agency employee [

on 22 May

1974

Mr.

Muldoon told Mr.

that he

was

nominal Vice President of a hashington-based

firm called "Security Consultants International.

He presented

] with a report. containing the essential data he

possessed concerning WER BELL and other members,of: FOA whom

he had met on 17 and 20 May 2974 10 vasninston.o.e.

According

to Mr. Muldoon, WER BELL had hopes of establishing gaming

casinos, hotel and other tourist facilities in Abaco catering

"S. tourist crowd.

is apparently persona non grata in the Bahamas! hence MER BELL

with Prime Minister Pindling of the Bahamas, however,

ambitions appeared to be, contingent on Abacan independence.

Mr. Muldoon reported that at least on two occasions hER BELL

made a concerted effort to insolve persons formerly affiliated

with the Agency in the activities of the FOA in support of

its independence.

On several occasions, WER BELi

introduced

Mr. Nuidoon and Mr. Roussos as active Agency officials, implying

that either the Agency or the United States Government supported

the. ains of the FOA.

WER BELL also proposed to Messrs:

Muldoon

• and Roussos in

separate conversations that they conduct a study,

involving a

visit to Abaco, to determine the feasibility of

Abaco's

independencc

in political

and economic terms. The

study was to include

interviers with citizens of Abaco prior

to an

alleged "plebiscite" on independence

to take place in

Abaco on 28 June 1974.

In default of the collaboration of

either. Muldoon

or Roussos, WER BELL hired Mr. Walter Joseph

Macken. a forner Agency: friend of both Muldoon and Roussos.

According to WER

BELL's file, Mackem later in 1974 contacted

the agency in

an attempt to get an official policy on the

activities

of the

FOA.

lackem nas

informed that the case

comes under and uras act unformation we had

that this Agency has no official

involrement, and

on the matter had

been made available to the FBI.

He was advised at that time

to report his. contacts and any information he had to the FBI.

On 24. Narch 1975, Mr.

assigned to

SE/PCH, reported that during the weck of 9 March 1975, he

talliod with Mr. lesley Dycknan.

Mr. Dyckman is a former Agency

employee employed by the Drug Enforcement Agency. According

to Dyckman; former Agency employee Kalter Mackem was employed

in

the washington arca as a private investigator.

He is also

involved with a paramilitary activity funded by

some

unnamed

British source.

The activity, which Dycknan referred

to as

3.45

---

## Page 80

- 6

the new land project" sought to establish a tax shelter on

one of the wur aslands of the Caribbean by forcefully taking

over the island and cstablishing a government there

Mackem

is supposedly involved in the paranilitary

training of forces

who would participate in this adventure.

Actording to Dyckman,

the paramilitary training supposedly bas to take place in

Georgia, where WER BELL is based.

On 31 August 1974,

MT..

•RousSOs

met

with Mr.

WER BELL. was

the

Greek Government.

KER BELL wanted Roussos to be his

advisor

in this venture and to go to Athens.

Roussos told

WER

BELL that he would check with CIA before giving him an

answer.

WER BELL asked Roussos to see if the Agency was in

"favor of

such an

arms deal or not.

Roussos' getting involved in this deal.

that he understood and agreed not to get involred.

Rous sos

said that KER BELL would probably call him from Athens and he

would give WER BELL a final negative reply.

9.

On 22. July 1974, the FBI reported that WER BELL may

be

in possession of a one-line note from

former CIA Director•

Willian Colby stemming fron a chance meeting with the Director

at an

OSS alumni dinners

reading something like "Good to see

you again." This note was apparently used by HER BELL to

suggest that he and Mr.

Colby here good friends.

This infor-

mation

was passed on to Mr. Colby on 9 August 1974.

10.

According to reporting from several Stations, WER BELL

and

Arthur L.

Smith (a cohort of HER BELL'S)

here in

several

Central American countries during August and

carly. September

1962•

Their principal activity

appeared to be contacting

officials of the governments of Cuatemala, Nicaragua, and

El Salvador for the purpose of obtaining recognition of a

de facto

Cuban Government in exile

called the

"United

Organization for the Liberation of Cuba."

In discussions with

Nicaraguan Government representatives:

WER BELL claimed the

proposed Cuban

Government in exile had the sunport of 90

scparate Cuban exile organications and 186,000 Cuban cxiles..

MER BELL offered a representative of the Nicaraguan Government

$100,000 to obtain

that government's recognition of the Cuban

Gorcinment in exile.

The group clained to have its headquartors

at 1025. Connecticut Avenue,

Ni,

in sashington, D.C.

Guatemala, Smith claimed thai the group had

nan in ihe

Department of State in Mashingion, D.C., thor they pay $6,000

per joar "to deep them adrised."

3.45

---

## Page 81

•In December 1965 WER EELL contacted a Miami DCD

asset and told him that he ane six Cuban exiles in

tha 1!. S.

had organized a group,

including approximately 20 Cubans

inside Cuba, to perform a commarco operation in Cuba during

carly January 1966..

Their prinary mission was the assassination

of Fidel. Castro, with the

secordary mission of hloring up the

generators that

supply electricity to Havana, Cuba.

KER BELL,

at the time, stated

that he has trying to get a "green light"

from CIA to

proceed with

the rission,.

and

inferred that the

mission would be called off if such approval was not obtained.

12

On 7 February 1966 the Viani office of the FBI

reported that, KER BELL had been in contact with

various new's

agencies concerning an alleged clan to assassinate Fidel. Castro,

and reportedly also had discussed the plan with Mr. Richard

Phillips,

Publie Affairs Officer, Department of State, Washington,

D.C.. KFR BELL claimed to have a group of some

500

men infiltrated

into Cuba and said that they were ready for action

to overthrow

the regine immediately following the assassination of Castro.

According to the FBI, WER BELL gave the impression

that he is

acquaiated with

many high goverament

officials,

both in

the U."S.

and other countries,

and implied that his assassination plan

had been approved by CIA.

Accörding to a memorardum in KER BELL's file, on 7

February 1968,

one Bruce Arman

Saker telephoned an employee

of this Agency and said he had been

in contact with WER BELL.

Mr. Baker said

that WER BELL has in the weapons manufacturing

business and delivered them by air throughout the world

Nr.. Baker said that

he understood that HER BELL does this for

Mr. Baker said that he understood from WER BELL that he

would have to get a ClA security clearance to fl! for WER BELL.

that he was afraid

that his past smuggling record

keep him from getting a Cli clearance.

14.

WER BELL came to the artention of

in

carly 1969 when he went to

Thailand representing himscif

as Vice President of Sionics, itlanta, Georgia.

He described

himself as a counterinsurgency expert,

had a variety of licapons

to display, claimed to be a retired

colonel, and introduced

himself at a local nightclub as Chief of ClA in Thailand.

KER BELL attenpted

to sell aras to the thais and aiso to

variety of !.

S. military elements.

passed

the sist of his reputation to ley personalities in the U..S.

nission and the Thai Governmen: stressing that he kas. not

sponsored in any way by the l. S. Gorernment.

3.45

---

## Page 82

- 8.00

15.

WER BELL was also the subject of tho memorandums

signed by Lawrence R. Housiön.

Mr. Houston, ansiering a

request fron Joscph J. Lichling, Deputy Assistant Secretary

of Defensc,

on

as. February 1971, denied HER BELL's alleged

affiliation with the ClA.

On 26 October 1971, Mr. Houston

wrote Mr. David H. Herretta, Jr., of the Industrial Security

Clearance Review Division, to return notariied Interrogatories

previously sent by Mr. Henretta.

We have no infornation on Colonel Bayard except news

articles reporting his death which were forwarded by the FBI.

Per your

request, he have

sent instructions to the

LA/Miani Station that there should be no contact with WER BELL.

Nestor D. Sanche=

Acting Chief

Latin America Dirision

DDO/LA/CAR/Cari/D. Geisler:rb

Ext. 1956

Distribution:

Orig

• Addressee

- DDO

1

ADDO

DUO/Reg....

C/ LA

C/ LA/CAR

•LA/CAR/Cari chrono

201-259910

(3 March 76).

INPOET

CL BY 013913

3,45

---

## Page 83

FIST document dated 24 July!

19÷4

From. Las Vegas

Subject: Mitchall Livingston.

Werbell, IlL

---

## Page 84

SEEIST/SENSITIVE

MAPSING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGESCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

27 JUN 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Director

Federäl Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION

:Intelligence Division

SUBJFCT

NITCHELL LIVINGSTOS VERBELL, lIT

Reference is nade to your Burera's File No.

•N 105-21592, Subject as above, and your Bureau's

reporting on Subject's involvement with the "Abaco

Independence Hoverend" (NIM) in the Conconealth of

the Bahanas:

For your infomation only, three former employees

of this Agercy were contacted in June 1974 by representatives

of à group callod "Frierds of Abaco," a group allegedly

advocating the secession of the island of

Alaco fron the

Connonwealth of the Fananas.

Contact was initiated by

Mitchell Livingston HERDELL Ill, an international arms

dealer, and a naturalised Lithuanian nured Michael OLIVER,

boch of whon attenated to involve the iormer Agency

employees in the baco Independence lovement (AI:l), of

whach your Burcau is faniliar.

contacted are:

The three forner employces

a.

John Patrick MULDOON

DPOB: 25 August 1257, Washington, D.

Retired fron this Agency on 20 March 1972

Address at time of retirement:

$305 Kentbury Drive

Bethesda, Maryland

CLASSIFIED BY 010116. EXEIPT FROM GEXERAL DECLASSIFICITION

• SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXEIPTION CATEGORY SB (2).

INPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTCATIC DECLASSIFICATIOY.

3.9

201-259910

---

## Page 85

SECRET SEISTIE

b.

Theodore John ROUSSOS

• DPOB: 14 July 1919, Hashington, D. C.

Retired: 31 July 1070

Address ar tine of retirement:

2018 liardv Avenue

wheaton, liaryland

ROUSSUS was rehired on a contract

basis in Fchruary 1971.. His

contract

has terninated Sertember 1973.

Walter Joseph SACKEM

DPOB: 13 Vecenber 1937, Omaha, Nebraska

Separated: j1 Octobei. 1973

Address at tine of separation:

2609*. Potomac

Arlington, Virginia

3.

Mitchell livingstca WERBELL III, the principal

owner of the

arms manufacturing fira befense Systens

International and in international arms dealer, has been

encouraging a group of Eahanian citizons on the island

of Abaco who seck to secede from the Rahanion Commonwealth.

In this affair wERbLLL has been collaborating with a

group based in liani called the "Friends of Ahaco."

land developer residing at 2089 El Rincho Drive,

Nevada.

OLIVER, a naturalized U. S. citizen, was born

Moses OLITSKI on 11 Decouber 1928 in Lithuania.

In encouraging persons in saco to seel

independence of Nassau, OLIVER's apparent notive is to

establish a prototype government based on princinies of

free enterprise expounded in a paperoach bour which he

has authored called "A Now Constitution for a New Country"

(Fine Arts Press, Rerio..

"ev. - 196S).

HERBELL, on the

other hand,

has

privately expressed a desire to establish

a tourist mecca on. Abaco to include hotels, recrcation

facilities

and gambling casinos. Officials of loliday

International, a Baltimore firm specialiied in recication

and health spas, have boon hriefed by HERSEll and OLIVER

recently on the

Abaco novement:

Robert d. C. HAMILTON,

13th Lord of Pelhaven

and Stenton and a romber of the

S20AC7, V

53

3.9

---

## Page 86

380N27/S3USIK5

Friends of Abaco, on 10 June 1974 sponsored a resolution

in behalf of the

Abaco Indenendence Movement on the fljor

of the British House of Lords,

following conversations

with HERBELL in Hashington in late May.

Despite the scening innocenre of the chterprise,

horever, vie have observed that vErBeLl, in particular,

has nade a concerted effort to involve persons fornerly

affiliated ith this Agency in the activities of the

Friends of Mbaco in support of Abaco's independence:

On several occasions,.

involving at least to forner

Agency officials in such a fashion as to imply, according

to the persons involved, that either this agency or the

United States Covernment supports the airs of the

Friends of Abaco.

dost recently, HErbElL has proposed to both

retired officers in separate conversations that. they

conduct a study, involving a visit

to abaco, to deterhine

the feisibility

of Abaco's independence in political and

economic terns.

would include intervics with

on Abaco prior to an alleged "rlebiscite" on

to take plice in shaco on is June 1974.

To be included in the investigation is research on the

probable reaction in the United Nations Orronization to

a petition fron political grouns in Abaco for support on

independence, notably any parallels to be found in

precedents such. as the Biafra secession fron Vigeria.

7. Andrew ST. GEORGE, a nationally known free-lance

writer,

has becone active

in HERBELL's orcanization

and

clains to be preparing an article on WEkhALL and the

Abaco movement for publication in True Magazine.

ST. GEORGE has participated in the several nectings that

HERBELL, OLIVER and their associates have had with the

the retired agency officers, tr. John MuLDeot and

Mr. Ted RoUsSOS.

3.9

---

## Page 87

PRETENS ONE

8..:

In default. of the collaboration of cither

MULDOON OF ROUSSOS,

VERBELL and OLIVER have hired

Walter Josoph HACKE!, a forner Agency friend of both

MULDOON and ROUSSOS:

9.

John Mulboo" is currently employed as the

Washingion rcpresentative of the

firr Security

• Consultants

International,

a subsidiary of the Atlanta

(Ga.) dctective

agency,

Central Investigative Agency.

is not

employed

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

15/ David A. Phillips

David A. Phillips

CIRA- 0371-74

01102

3,9

---

## Page 88

DDO/184/57

Distribution:

Orig. &

1

: aт/4221/17977 (26 June 1974)

FBI

OPS/LSN

CIOPS/NH

201 - 259910

C/OS/SSD/OSB

C/KHD

kH/Security

- 0/PERSO\SEL

for NULDOO!

ROUSSOS, and

NACKEM's personnel files

1 - 071/7/CAR Chrono

1 - 189-9-1

BASED 0%: Memoranda for the Record dated:

22 May -1974

21 June

1974

22 June -1974

26 June 1974

3.9

---

## Page 89

SECRET

Memorandum for the Record

Subject:

Agency Retiree's

Involvement with

Abaco Independence Group

1..

Through the intermediary of

and retired staffer Jack "Red" Stent,

DC/EA,

I was put in toüch

on 22 May 1974 with John MULDOON, another

retired staffer

who is now nominal vice-president of a Washington-based

firm called "Security Consultants International."

Muldoon made the contact with me apparently on the

advice of Bob Brown and Red Stent whose counsel he

sought in an effort to protect himself from the possible

implications of his involvement with a group promoting

the independence of the-Bahamian Commonwealth island of

Abaco.

We met at 1100 hours at "Tony's"

on L street

and

18th N.l. in downtorn Washington.

Red Stent was

there to

introduce me to Muldoon but he did not participate

in the discussion.

2.

Muldoon presented me with a typerritten report

containing the essential data he possessed

concerning

a

group of individuals with whom he had met on Friday,

17. May 1971 in Washington.

attendins the mecting with

Muldoon on that occasion were Mitchell KERBELL III (aka

"Mitch Three"), Lord and Lady BELLHAVEN (alleged British

pecrs), Mike OLIVER (a wealthy electronics trcoon of

European, possibly French,

origin who currently resides

in Carson

City, Nevada), Howard HaNDELMAN (warhington

correspondent of "U.S. News and world Report"), Renee

(lnu)

(the evening's object of Herbell's secmingly

voracious

affections) and an employe of the Library of

Congress whom Muldoon chose not to identify to me.

At

a subsequent meccing on Monday, 20 May 1974, Muldoon

had lunch with MERBELL and free lance writer Andrew St.

GEORGE who is also involved with WERBELL in the Abaco

independence enterprise.

The lerbell group is known

as the

"Friends of Abaco" (already documented as such

in our files).

• 3. 1

SECRET.

---

## Page 90

JEGRET

ironladia of the background of the principals

is essential

to a comprchension of the affair as recounted

by Muldoon:

Island of Abaco • From available file

information he know that Abaco is a shall island at the

north end of the Bahamas archipelago a short distance

off the Florida coast. which was populated in 1785 by

British Lovalists and

their Black slaves fleeing the

United States following independence.

The island remains

about' 50g white.

Openly apprehensive in anticipation of

the Bahamas' independence 'from Great Britain, the residents

of Abaco, both white and black, have found themselves -

since independence - the object of apparent antagonism

and administrative neglect on the pars of

the Pindling

government, which has fueled talk of secession from

Nassau

indigenous organization headed by a white, Charles "Chuck"

and called the Abaco Independence Movement. (AIN)

HALb is a resident of Marsh Grove, the country cross roads

which poses as the metropolitan capital of Abaco; he

frequently visits Miami where he meets with lerbell.

b.. Mitchell WERBELL III • A Philadelphian,

WERBELL was a member of OSS in the Far East during World

War Il where, according to. Muldoon, he came to know the

Director and

Lou Concin.

Werbell currently a resident

of Atlanta, now is president of an international arms

peddling

firm called Defense Systens International (DSI).

In addition to industrial

security systems, according to

DSI sells automatic weapons (including a minia-

ture machine pistol with a silencer) and bonb-booby trapped

items of various sorts (e.g., a tennis ball with a fuse.

is automatically activated when you stop playing)

and other James Bondian accessories.

Herbell hopes to

establish gaming casinos.

hotels and other tourist

facilities

in Abaco catering to the U.S. tourist crowd

available

easy ferrying from nearby Miani.

consequence of

some run-in with Prine Minister Michael

Pindling, however, Herbell is apparently permanently

persona non grata in the Bahamas; hence his ambitions

appear to be contingent on Abacan independence.

Mike OLIVER - The financial angel of the

"Friends of Abaco," Oliver's origins and auspices are

somewhar

obscure to Muldoon.

OLIVER clains to have spent

3.6

SEGRET

---

## Page 91

SEGRET

time in a Nazi concentration camp during World kar II:

practice to illustrate to the U.S. government that it

is worth practicing in this country.

In contrast to

this colleague Mitch

Three Werbell, however, he seems

adamantly opposed to establishing a gambling empire.

Lord and Lady BELLHAVEN - A member of

the British House of Lords, BELLHAVEY plans to make

a speech there, following his return to London on 2?

May 1974, castigating the British government for

allowing baco to be abused by vassau.

BELLHAVEN"

appears to be identical with Kobert Anthony Carmichael

HALTOY, born 27: Feb 27, the 13th Lord of BELHAVEN

and STENTOY His wife is the former Elizabeth Ann

daughter. of the late Colonel Arthur Henry.

(whose claim to fame remains to be probated).

This information comes from several tones on the

English peerage which were researched for me by Sally

Ann Brown of E/BC.

Howard HANDELILLY - The U.S. News and

World Report correspondent also has contacts with the

Agency, a fact which concerns Muldoon.

f.

Central Investigation Agercy - An Atlanta

detective Agency established a

few years ago by Howard

COSGROVE,

a former Georgia police officer specialised

in narcotics operations tho was apparently fired from

the force for reasons unknown to Muldoon.

retains a 260 interest in the CIA (sic); Mitchell

HERBELL

If ("Mitch Four") holds another. 26g and a re-

maining 63 interest is held by the nominal president of

"CIA,"

a retired Army colonel named Byer or Briar.

The

"ClA" has in turn establisied Securir! Consultants Inter-

national,

as a Washingson-based snolly oined subsidiary.

SCI'S

specialities are anti-audio sheeps and clectronic

suricillance using devices devcloped by one David NORISSEY,

an electronics engineer who collaborates with MuLDoON &

"CIA."

incident which alarmed Muldoon occurred

during

the Friday gathering of she individuals mentioned

in paragraph

Muldoon was palmed off by derbell at

this gaihering

an "otficial

of the CIA (Central

3.8

---

## Page 92

SECHET

Intelligence Agency, in this

instance)" who was there

to attest to the fact that neither the ClA nor the U.S.

Government is opposed to Abacan independence.

interlocutors, despite Muldoon's protests that he was

retired

from. CIA and in no way represented U.S. government

interests respecting Abaco, scened

- he felt

to accept his presence there as evidence of U.s.

government endordsenent of the Abacan independence movement.

.. Muldoon took

some pains to gain reassurance that

he would not be pinpointed by verbell as the source of

this information if any

action here taken on it.

assured him that, apart from the particular incident on

17 May 1974, the

general outlines of WERBELL and his

activities and aspirations for Abaco have already been

reported by two or three other sources. Since there is

nothing the Agency can plausibly do at this juncture

about WERBELL'S

apparent effort to con his supporters

into thinking that the CIA was backing the Abaco

independence venture, I told Muldoon I planned merely

to nake his side of this story a matter of record and

let it go at that.

6.

To cap off the story, Red Stent invited us to

lunch

at

the Class Reunion on

Eye Strect ard 18th.

When

Muldoon and I arrived to meet Stent we found him ensconced

at a corner table with

three other people.

Red rushed

over to inform

us that he would be introducing me as a

colleague of his from AEROJET.

He then presented me to

WERBELL, Herbell's date. Patricia BOTOYD and Cecil BROWVLOW

of "Aviation leekly."

WERBELL, looking for all the world

like Jerry Colonna, was intent

on the task of seducing

Miss BOTOND, who happened to be promoting a convention

for the Atlantic Union organization,

a political

enterprise

which is an offshoot of the world Federalists Vovement.

Miss BOTOND, as it turned out was reared in

at the same

Shanghai, China,

time as Stent.

Red had attended school with

her brother - the German Schoul in Shanghai.

Miss BOTOND

had been expelled from the German school in the late 1930s

for having had anti-va=i doodles in her copybook.

Brownlow had helped Red obtain acrial photos

of the

ChiCom consulate compound in Geneva in the early 1960s

when Red was stationed in Paris.

When Herbell had

wearied of the rominisences of Stent and Botond and had

managed to hustle his prey off to

a private table,

Stent

revealed to BROsiLot that I was not AEROJET but CIA.

Fortunately my name nas

mumbled at the introduction so that

no one

could have regeated it.

No one

in fact seemed

interested.

SEGRET

13,8

---

## Page 93

SECTET

7.

Following lunch Muldoon leit bitn a culleague

for a meeting at the Justice Departnent to determine

whether in

sweeping Embassy buildings in washington he

must register as an agent of a foreign governrent

(whichever it might be.

Brosinlot sent about his

business.

Stent paid for the lunch.

I returned to

what Stent whimsically refers to as the "Funny Farm."

My only regret is that George Orwell could not have

joined us for that lunch.

DC/KH/7

isdf (24 May 74)

DDO/WH/ 7/

Distribution:

Orig : DC/EA

189-9-1

201-259910

C/WH/.7

DC/ NHD

SEGRET

3,8

---

## Page 94

KAME:

• BIRTH:

CITIZEWSHIP

ADDRESSI

MARITAL STATUS:

CHILDREN:

EMPLOYMENT:

EDUCATION:

TRAVEL:

PAPERS:

DATA DATED:

÷58 126

7 July 1965

RIOGRAPRICAL DATA

BOTEND, Istrar

17 Aug 1921, Fungary

USA, Raturalized, May 12, 1962

2152 Wyoain& Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.

BOTOND, Patricia, Nee: POTTER

BOTOND, Kristina; b. e1960

BOTOND, Andrew; D. c1962

Step-Children:

Lila; D. c1948

Christopher; b. c1947

Architect/Urban Designer. The Perkins & WiLl

Partnership, Washington, D.C.

1955:

Palatine Joseph Folytechnic University,

Budapest, Hungary

1961: Faivard Univeralty, Cantridge, Mass

Extensive

F. I.C.A.: 074-32-6419

Not Dated

---

## Page 95

ISTVAN BOTUND, A.I.A.

Architece/Urban Designer

2152 Fiyoming Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20008 (202) DLjss 7-7525

•Age:

43

Born: August 1%, 1921, Hungary

Citizenship:

Marical status:

U:S.A. Maturalized, May 12, 1962)

Married

Wife: Patricia Poster Botand (U.S.A.)

Childrea Kristina, 3 1/2 years

Andrew, 2 years

(Lila, I6 years, and Christopher, 15 géars, froc

wile's.previous marriage are not filly dépendem)

F.I.C.A.

074-32-6419

•Educadon:

Professional

Afiliadon:

Awards:

Languages:

. Travel:

Laterests:

Dipl. Architect

Palatine Joseph Polytechaic Chiversity,

Facülry of'Architecture and Engineering,

Budapest, Hungary, 1955

Master of Architecture in Urban Design

Harvard University, Graduate School of Design,

Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1961°

Registered Architect

New York Scate

# 8181

District of Columbia.# A= 1576

NCARB Certificate

# 4936

•Corporate Niember,

American Institute of Architects, Washingson Metropolitan Chapter

1954, Fourth Prize for replanilag of a bombed city square and

neigiborhood in Debrecen, Hungary (co-designer)

1961, Scholarship at Centro Laternazionale di Studi

di Architerture "Andrea Palladio," Italy

English, Hungarlan, German, French (acqualataace)

The Eahamas '58; Burope '59, '62, '65; Canada '6d, '62;

U.S. V1r81a Islands '63, '6S; Bermuda '63

Music, phorograpiry, sporta: akllag, denals

3.15

---

## Page 96

Lstyla Botoad, pag: 2

Publicadons:

Magyar Epitomtveszet ("'Hungarian Architecture") -- monebly

Jan. '56:

Airport and Buildings (Diploma thesis)

July "58: Furniture Factory in Debrecen, Hungary

Harvard University Library

Factore that Shape the City. Case Stidy •- Budapest

PROFESSIONAL June 1963 - Preveal

EXPERIENCE

The Perkins & Will Partnership, Architecte

- Washingtos, D.C.

Head of Destiu Departneat

Responsible and trvolved in every design job as guide and

crite. In addition to administradve duties (Personnel, Budges,

Schedules, etc.), active designer of two major projecte

a) University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N.C.

Teaching Hospital and Ambulant Patient Pacilides

First stage ready for bid

Est: $7, 500, 000

b) Duke University, Durham, N.C.

Rescarch Laboratory Bullding for Medical Sciences

Working drawings under preparation

Est: $5,400,000

Other Department works:

Duke University, Durham, N.C.

Main Entrance

Bid: $ 3,700, 000

Duke Untersity, Durham, N.C.

Clinical Research I Bulldinge

Est: $ 1,800, 000

George Washtagton University, Washingtar, D.C.

Long Range Plaa

Doctors" Office Buildlag, Washlngton, D.C.

Est: $2, 600.000

Virgin Islands Medical Centers: Si. Thomas, St. Crois

Est $ 14, 000, 000 each

3.6

---

## Page 97

Istan Botand, page 3

PROPESSIONAL

EXPERIENCE

December 1956-June 1969

(Absent ten months for Post-Graduate Studles)

1. M. Pel & Assoclades, Architecta & Planners

New York, New York

Architect Designer/Planner:

•Hotel Derver Hiltor: design work and detalling of precast

exterior and store fronts

M.I.T. Earth Science Building: preliminary design

and plenning work

Union Station ates project, Toronto, Canada: aite

analysis and feasiblity studies

"Financial Plaza, " Downtown Toroato, Catada:

prelimisary saidies for a banks and office buildinga

project

Weyboseet Hill, Urban Renewal Project, Providence, R. I.:

Urban Designer in the Planning Team

Newhouse Communication Center, School of Jourcalism,

Syracuse University, New York: consultani on precast

exterior system

Town Center Plaza, Southwest Washington, D.C.: site

study for extension of a newly constructed Housing-

Shopping project.

•

Prior to December 1956

Various archivectural positioss la Hunzary (part-time

during University years.)

Final year: (August 1955-Növember 1956) Head of

Architectural Department in the Reglonal Planning

Bureau for Northeast Hungary. Duties similar to

present position.

3;

---

## Page 98

desirauss.

Tonghout Me Pacific.

SUITE 409 / 1451 SOUTH KING STREET / HONOLULU, ILAWAII 96814/ PHONÉ 219-4733 /Cable Address' GENNYCO

Bradstreet,

К гіс

Inc.

508

•677 Ala

Moane

honoiulu; bavari

96814

Acca: dell Laliner

Ncs!

Wr

move a financial

10/23/69 by Chalk d

statement on Oliver-doza Corpo

dated

Joerg.

CPA'S,

717 North Curry SEri

Do: 1060, Carson City,

devada, 89071.

8•0.

Ni appraisal of an "Oliver subuivision" by doodo t

Beni

Nevinda.

rocate Appraiser & Consulcant, 2345. Camas Rã.,

Murray.

Carson City

karanel Oilver,

Drive,

an Electronic 'e ¿agincer, de 2039 El Rancho.

Carson City, Nevada, is President

of at least two

corporatións, author of "A

ha::

New

commitment from

Consticucion Zor A dew Country";

Oceab?orE,

Whitchall Securities Corp.,

138 Main

SE.

New. Jarsay,

to his Vanguard Corp.

ünderwrite

che

GaieG of 500,000 shares óf conson stoci at $10.00 per share;

deal fell chru because Dilcdon or Dutch

come thru with: sax relied

goveruments tailed

Co

Staggrely,

Dee dui Sterne

is Venue find

LEJ/aba

3

---

## Page 99

jid...

read to Mas

65 52

C4-712-3096

VANGUARO CORP

0268 WAR 14

: 1969. N

LAND DEVELOPVENT

1968

2089 EL RANCHO OR

CARSON CITY NEV

89701

TEL 702 882-2683

SUWARY

PRES

MICHAEL. DAVIS PRES

PAYMENTS

EMPLOYS

SETTY S.

(MRS. M.) OLIVER,

SEC-TREAS

RECORO

DIRECTORS:

THE officors and l

A.

Joseph A.

Foss Jr, Dr.

R. 6.

williams, o.

whi morer. Malors,

Arthur L. Bonike, and Robert Johnson.

UNDETERMINED

CLEAR

PAYMENTS

HiSTORY:

HISTORY

suppliers for this operation were

not located during current Investi

gation. Offiver's personal paymont record is satistactory.

19 1969 M. Oliver,

president, was unavailable

One outside source submitted the following statemunt fron Michael offverien

personally dated Apr 25 1968:

Cash

8,200

Accts Rec

, 300

Dwina Autos

3,200

Coin Collection & Stocks

6,000

RE

Current

15,500

Current

3,359

327,000

MTOS

27,047

Autos

5,900

NEY WORTH

318,003

540 270 2и тАр тА кор ка таі

Total

348,400

Total

348,400

Unsigned.

Real estate

includes interest In Oliver-Roos Corp of 5289,000; Carson

City

residence, $23,000; house at San Diego, Callf, $15,000. Statement was

obtalned from

outside sources

On Mar 18 1969, Oliver was uravailable for an Interview.

Detalls on this business were not

avallable In outside quarters. One

outside source reported

that operations are currently in the formative stages.

Incorporated in Nevada dos to starting this concort, a gaged in lange

OLIVER, born 1920, married. 1965 to starting

this concern,

development,

as an officer In Ollver-Boza

Corporation. Prlor to that, was

associated with the Philco Corp. In Palo AlTo,

Callf. Prior to that,

employed

Volt Tech corp.,

at San Diego.

The directors are residents of the

State

of CVlifornia; antecedent informationis not currently available.

OPERATION

319 (2006 6)

inciding officers

3.4

ANANY

iHIS RIPOST MAY

NOT

---

## Page 100

SI0:

63 52

PAYMENTS

FINANCE

BANKING

HISTORY

OPERATION

7H08

Lunar arguanesee fine

. D 11.11.$

Mr tilled!

Oi. IVER ROSA CORP

CO 48 APR 28 1971:

LAND DEVELOPMENT

2089 EL RANCHO DR

CARSON CITY. NEV 89701

TEL 702 882-2483

MICHAEL OLIVER, PRES

JR, V PRES

FETY S LEIS MI OLIVER.

SEC-TREAS

DIRECTORS: The Officers

and Robert R Johnson

STAFiZO

1965

SUGARY

PAYMENTS

EXPLOYS

RECORD

UNDETERMINCO

INDOMPLETE

Supplers for this operation were not located during current

Investigation. Oliver's porsonal payiients record is. satisfactory!

On April 28, 1971 officers were absent.

Reporter estimates are:

Real

estate

•$.

290, 000'

REAL ESTATE

TITLE

VALUE

Residence of Olivers

Oliver/wife

House;

San Diego

Oliver/Wife

$23,000

15,000

Furthér current financial estimates are unavailable. Concerning a

personal statement of Michael Olivor

datod April 1968,

total

assets vere

istod at $348,400 and net worth at $318,003. Net worth of Oliver centere

heavily in real estate.

Operations of the concern appear to be profitable. Full extent of

operations unknown. Fire insurance details not

learned. Business is well

-ostabtishedrand affairs appear to be kept ln order.

Bank facility not learned.

Incorporated levada on Nov'5 1965, authorized capital. $200,000 with

20,000 shares at si0 per share.

• OLIVER born 1920,

married. Was associated with the Philco Corp in

Palo Alto, Calif. Prior to that,

employed by Volt Tech. Cors at San

Diego. Is presently also the president of a Vanguard Corp.

3 OLIVER born. 1925,married. Is bookkeoper of concern.

Antocedents of Rosa Jr. and Johnson lacking.

PELATED CONCEPN: Vanguard Corp.

same address, established 1968,

oporates also in. land development. Extent of Inter-company relations

unlearned.

Operates In the land development field. Business non-seasonal.

Employs 4 including directors. LOCATION: Headquarters are maintained at

Oliver's residence, owned by Mr and Mrs M Oliver.

4-28 (88c 3)

3,4

ODUCED IN WHOLE

OR IN PART IH

OR MANNER WHATEVER

---

## Page 101

OUTGONG MESSAGE

SIONAL

UNCOURT

roa

20-3

10 500

CMF 0

D

0

D

1691914099

SECRET

WE DRACO MAMEN MAD!

DATA. TIME GROUP

crea

STAFF

2223237

DIRECTOR

CONF: EA/COY INFO:

P/AN EAY EA/UNOW L52/1D

SN/MIL COPS C1/0P2

0

путита то

то:

INFO

SAIGON•

TAPPER/CO STRYLIC

REFS:

3

516809

DISSEMBY: 47

JIN 163687|

B ..

SAIGON 74819 lIN 1641691

C.. SAIGON 24609 lIN 1632861

WIN 165474!

E• SAIGON 74890 IN bbbiaLl

1. HAS FILES CONTAIN FOLLOWING ON BENNETT B. BINTLIFF.

1201-8859323, SUBJECT OF REF A REQUEST:

A. EARLY APR 197L DEPAFTMENT OF ARMY VIA INTERAGENCY SOURCE

REGISTER EXPRESSED OPS INTEREST IN SINTLIFF AS A "SOURCE ASSET IN-

VOLVED: IN ARMY OPERATION 1201-DE, ACTIVATED 25 MAR 1966r WHICH WAS

THE CONUS FIELD STATION• A SUBORDINATE ELEMENT OF U.S. ARMY FIELD

ACTIVITIES COMMAND. HOWEVER. ARMY DROPPED ITS INTEREST IN BINTLIFE

WITHOUT PREJUDICE 13 OCT 1972. DOE LISTED AS 17 FEB 1928, AUSTIN.

TEXAS.

@INTLIFF ALSO LISTED AS PRESIDENT, QUANTUM CORP., 444 MADISON,

NEW YORK, AND VICE PRESIDENT, MILITARY ARMAMENT COPP., L'ENFANT PLAZA

N.. WASHINGTON, D.C.

DATE:

OHIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

3.3

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

CRET

File in 201-257570

E 2

CL BY:

IMPDET

5927}

---

## Page 102

OMF.:0

chemista seeme

SECRET

did ter.

DATB-11N8G10U8

SADE 3

lice Thick

MADE STENCH PEA

DISSEM OY:

PER _*_

CONF:

0 10es

ad has to

INFO: FILE

0. 200 10088.

fice

5/6. 809

B. BINTLIFF• AT ONC TIME: WAS

AN OFFICIAL OF SIONICS. CORP."

1655 PEACH TREE STREET: N-E-i ATLANTAi

GEORSIA

WHICH LISTS MITCHELL

90/251911

L. VERBELL III AS VICE PRESIDENT:

SHEREELLT ON WHOM HES HAS LENGTHY

201 FILES IS CHARACTERIZED AS AMERICAN ADVENTURER, UNSCRUPULOUS

WHEELER DEALER, AND PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES: WERGELL WAS IN-

VOLVED IN GUNRUNNING AND MERCENARY VENTURES IN CUEA, DOMINICAN RE-

PUBLIC, SOUTH VIETNAM AND THAILA V, SIR EPING EKHERALD COMMECTIONS. $

BINTLIFF AND WERBELL WERE INVOLVED IN FUNDING MERCENARY EXPEDITION ON

ABACO ISLAND, BAHAMAS. SUERBELL 201 FILE)

C. FBI REPORT MMIO5-21582, 27 JULY 1973, INDICATES BINTLIFF

NOU DUNER OF DEFENSE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA;

WHOSE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF ADMINISTRATOR IS PAUL J. ROUTHIER, A RE-

TIRED U.S. AIR FORCE LT. COL: AND VERBELL'S SON-IN-LAW.

2. RE EBRW FIRM MENTIONED IN REF C, CHECK OF ATLANTA TELEPHONE

DIRECTORY SHOW'S LISTING FOR BINTLIFF, SAYARD, ROUTHIER, WERBELL AND

CO., ATLANTA, GEORGIA, WHICH LISTS SAME ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER

AS DEFENSE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL

COSIS: ISI ALSO HAS ADDRESS LISTING

AT 43ZI MACLAND-DALLAS, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, WHICH IS RESIDENCE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT: "

EXT:

REPRE •TION BY OTHER THAY THE ISSUING OFFICE i COMBITED

CL BY:

IMPDET

---

## Page 103

savers

011F

SECRET

0

0

3

FALS

3

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DISSEM SY:-

0 :0 mons

48 14918-01

20125451 ten

CLAIMED BY BINTLIFF AND WERBELL.

ac all. Wiseh29392177

3. WHAT. LITTLE INFO HAS HAS RE BINTLIFF IS INCONCLUSIVE: HOW-

EVÉR: IF JUDGMENTS CAN BE MADE BY COMPANY HE KEEPS, DEALINGS WITH HIM

SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH CAUTION. WHILE ABOVE BACKGROUND INFO ON

BINTLIFT AND WERBELL CANNOT SE PASSED TO LIAISON BECUÂSE OF THEIR U.S.

CITIZENSHIP, STATION CAN PASS STRYLIC PARA 2E TELEPHONE DIRECTORY

INDICATE

INFO ANDYTHAT BINTLIFF HAS UNSAVORY CUNNECTIONS AND MAY FALSELY CLAIM

U.S. GOUT AFFILIATIONS..

4. FILE:

201-685991. E21 IMPDET.N

wil

Marie rid

EA/TOL/T:

/DRAFT/

EA! INO/SVN:

/DRAFT/

LSN/ISR:

VORAFT/

DATE:

CAIG:

SECR

FEB. 74

CH/HTH

6770/1968

AC/EA

ET

J/RYU

i)

3,3

= renomination poorrmy

REFRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED

DERAICH

=-mr:e-:+r9 090K8%

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY: 59271.

---

## Page 104

LVSCASSIFIED

to -

TRYAL

OALY

CON: iNTIAL.

SELRET.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBCEC7:' lOprigngis

Sensitive

FROM:IC COSLECETON DEFISICN

w90rE Eranch/pperational Suppor: Sectiod

7005 900, Key Puildiag - ext. 2269

Evan. Ames

YD.

Cicer dengneren, room mümber, and

bou idcleng;

EXTENSION I NO

DATE

aivto

*ORARDED!

SIPICERS

Freiflar

5.

C/WH/T/C

3.B.0001 Hgs.

Verti

DC/WH/7

C/Wт11

Ielimas

Duin, 5.7

Eintin

'fcich

Eetrudic)

ienna- file

it

4

li í-

Case 61168

: CATE

22 January: 1974

JHMENTS :Number ooch commen te saem lom

1o mh0m.

am a ling ocrose columa etige toct egmmor.

Attached report was sent

in by. DCD/Miani.

A coyy

has been

passed to wh Station

in Miami.

(11M-00-E-324/00263-74)

2 t 304:

Mi tyes afeisle slsozile

ii puseid

To Ceet. 3T.iu

lii dis

Jcanco Gicistacd

iDeD iuentde it, - ?o

petuie sell ons

izelio if haigh. an iill rie

189-9-11

w/ 311stet

No. But en tetre

ifimeed bo

MtL OPSLIA

hlp, tha

DCD dOES

%.

8.

10.

11.

12.

13

14.

IS.

BO8M

J-s?

olo:.

610 "424645'9

SECRET

3.2

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UlCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 105

PERSONAL AYD CONFIDENTIAL

Dece iber 9, 1973

Interim Report - Pertod of

12/3/73 - 12/9/73

RE: Current Bahamian Situation

At Miami, Florida

Resuits of the Inquiry:

The following people were contacted by the writer:

Jay Mallin (December. 3, 1973.) Mallin states that to the.

best of his knowledge there are only two groups known to be active in the

Abaço: Movement--the. group that HerBel (Mitchell Livingston Werßel III) 1s

associated with and a group being headed up by a Bob Brown.

Brown is currently in Washington ano is about to return to his home

which is in Boulder, Colorado. Mallin Indicated that if anything were ahout

to occur Brown would certainly be in the Miami area.

Brown is a white American and an ex-Special Forces type. Me has

formed a group of ex-Special Forces Specialists that In Mallin's opinion

"could really raise Hell." Brown, according to Mallin, has been working for

Chuck Hall, However, Hall Is alse aligned with Herßel.

3.2

---

## Page 106

Mallin states : : all of the planning sessions

r Brown's group

have been held in the iiving room of Mallin's Coral Gables home.

Brown's group Is all white but he has been in contact with some of

the local Blacks in Abaco: The Blacks have had no formal training nor do

they possess the proper weapons for any sizable operation. In order to

obtain weapons and training the Bläcks have made friendly overtures to Brown's

group.

Mallin stated that some of the local Blacks could move on their ou

but he believes that it would be highly unlikely.

Mallin speculated that U.S. Mafia money may be being spent_ in the

Bahamas In order to finance the overthrow of Pindling's government to stop

the seizure of the casinos. He did not have any evidence to substantiate the

theory.

In answer to a-direct question from the writer Mallin further commented

-that Paul Bethal is totally out of the Abaco situation. Bethal's only role.

according to Mallin, was the one meeting he arranged for kerßel, Hall, a Michael

Lightbourne (Phonetle) and George Wackenhut. Bethal, Mallin further stated,

trys to give people the impression that he has very high level connections

Including

members.of the Matlonal Security. Council.and that.he prepares papers

and other briefings for the Council. Mallin states that this is not true, that

Bethal in fact has no such contacts.

Mallin went on to say that kerBel would not get involved with anything

that would jeopardize his U.S, government contracts especially the sale of

his stlencer to the Army, In addition, according to Mallin, WerBel 1s a CIA

informant and would advise the Agency of his activities.. On December 9, 1973,

Mallin was recontacted by thewriter. Chuck Hall travels to Miami a great

deal and contacts Mallin when he does..

Mal! in said his last contact with Mall

was about two months ago.. Hall's supporters are mainly white although

- 3.2

---

## Page 107

there are a couple or i

iks. Mall is publishino a min

raphed newsletter

under the name u. the fbaco Independent Movement.

Mallin indicated that, "the whites cannot do anything in Abaco

There has been a sertes of thefts of weapons in the Bahamas and

Mallin believes that Black militants could possibly be involved. Mallin

further believes that there may in fact be a slack militant group operating in

the Abaco area.

Mallin stated that, "Herßel's bringing in of Colin Mitchell was just

a lot of nolse." He went on to say Mitchell did not accomplish anything.

David H. Wike, Associate Security Director, University of Miami.

Hike has not heard of any unusual actlyity in the Bahamas:

In answer to a

direct question from the writer Wike stated that the only member of the Unt-

versity community known to be travelling to the Bahamas frequently is a

student who is a suspected narcotics dealer. Also, no prominent Bahamian

personalities or members of their families are known to be attending the

Unfversity.

John L. Curtin, Eace County Public Safety Cepartment. Curtin.

states that, "the trouble has been building for the las: six to eight months."

He belleves a direct assault would have to be made on Nassau Itself in

order to accomplish the desired objective of stopping the selzure of the

casinos.

Curtin further stated that the Mafia has been "buying guns like

crazy." On December 5, 1973, Curtin was recontacted due to the fact that

he had dinner with a prominent Bahamian businessman who is known to be in.

the lumber business. This businessman is white but is well liked by the

Blacks in the Bahamas.

His Identity 1s unknown to the writer.

3.2

---

## Page 108

This businessri stared that there is definitel ircreased activity

but that no speuific late for any overt áctión hua teen mentioned.

This bustressman believes that Mafia money is en Important factor and

that. Blacks will be hired to do the actual fighting if there is any fighting.

He views the casina issue as the crucial one. He belleres Blacks who are

opporturistic will seize upon the casino issue to obtain weapons and money

from the Mafia and attempt to seize power.

Dr. Cavid Cartano, Sociöloay Instructor, University.of Miami.

Cartano was contacied due to his being a past menber of the Institute for the

Study of Change, When he first became associated with the Institute he

was introduced by fallin as being a Bahamian specialist.

Cartano could not contribute anything pertinent to this inquiry. He

has not renewed his contacts in the Islands in over one year's time. He does

have iNo Bahamian students in one of his classes but neither of them has:

mentioned anything of any significance. Me doubts their value as sources.

Gordon 0. Rothwell, Chief of Security, Sheraton Four Arbassadors

Hotel.

Rothwell could not contribute anything pertinent to this inquiry. In

addition no prominent Bahamians are presently or have been recently in the

hotel,

W. Sruce Wrighsson, Chief of Security, Sheraton Royal Biscayne

Hotel. No prominent Bahamians are presently or have been recently in the

hotel.

A confidential local law enforcement source indicated that

an attorney in West Palm Beach is selling automatic weapons. He is free

lancing and has a stall warehouse with two separate alarm systems installed

on the warehouse.

3.2

---

## Page 109

SEGRET

CIA INTERNAL USE CHLY

ATTH :

035-04-74

6 J000rg 1974

Chlot, Dimenise Colluelloo Division (Suppurt Ürnch/08s)

mechall 'b, sorboll, all

iso savo reviered subjoct'a 201 sile for additional laforatioa.

Aubjoct my of totereor to sais iguncy in 1959 and ins grantod a

PU! 10 Auguat of Mint goor.

Thla was caacolled la October 1959 bea

' toporailos provod lo Do o8 letle value and because 18 van

mapocted so vas undy Agency funds to pronoce bis porsonal ducerost.

lo ana subsoquently attonpred to paos limolf off as an Agency

esployee.

No 1a charactoriaod b: the file no unscrupulous, a

ad a promoter of grindiose schenes.. Tie subject.

goa nader 1ng

entention lo 1973 by bots the Burenu of Alcohol.

Subneço and Firearte and the called statue Cuatons servies for

activilios relatiag to pourible mercenary activition da Abaco loland.

Da hamas.

• Ul the subject should contaet your ritico arin, o

furthor comitonta concerning agency contact. Subjoct do vell

karn to tha approprlato Dont and is of entrumoly doubtful

character.

3. lo trust tila amorantus will provido you uith useful

infomatios concoming this subjoct. Thank you for bringiog bla

name to our attention.

EPEgas for K3400s/6

ce: foreices Dr. (Coatro))

IP Filos

FILE. HII3019

3. 1

STORET

82 DEDIT CL BY 010830

X4-251710

Min piet

office.

dated Jam 14

---

