# 104-10423-10000

## Page 1

104-10423-10000

CONFIDENTI AL

7DO|PIC

HT-1

24 May 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

SUBJECT

: Release of ClA Information Contained in

Warren Commission Related Documents

REFERENCE

: D0/SS 75 - 1051, dated 19 December 1975

Attached is a copy of a CI Staff memorandum dated 7 April 1976

documenting a modification of the conclusions reached in Reference con-

cerning the release of FBI reports relating to the Warren Commission.

The decision on Oswald focument No. 282 will be made by the

OGC/CI Staff group that is currently revlewing these holdings.

/6/ Charles A. BrI88S

Charles A. Briggs

Chief, Services Staff

Attachment:

Memorandum as stated

cc: OGC/Mr. Zeibell

CONFIDENTIAL

FL,

E.XInco ci a: 012170:

~ Iotzate e pas0a, - DoTe ToTTt a DETT, H0 SMPT, 6009 8 - 199 - 8-0 2n08т аnм -!

---

## Page 2

13-00000

....

AD M611762 EL USE ONLY

7 April 1976

DDO/PIC

Re request 3/26/76 from FBI to IPS to confirm our previous

concurrence in release of Warren Commission Document #1247:

FBI Report dated 22 June 1964, at Dallas, Texas,

Subject: Lydia Dymitruk, Internal Security - R.

As a result of a December 1975 request from the FBI for a

determination on FBI reports in the Oswald case held at NARS,

some unknown person in Cl Staff advised DDO/PIC that FBI

report identified as Warren Commission Document #1247 could

be declassified. (See FBI memorandum dated 12 December 1975.)

This declassification of Warren Commission Document #1247

did not take place and FBI, on review, came to the decision

that it might not be wise to declassify the entire report.

I have this date concurred in the suggestion of Mr. Howard,

source of that the relestichis seport at NARS since the

source of most of the information is the

Mr.

Howard indicated he would record the fact that the ClA source

document for this information is in our Oswald release.

For Your Information: Declassification of Warren Commission

Document #1247 (based on Warren Commission Document #844)

was authorized as reflected in Mr. Briggs' memorandum of

19 December 1975 to IPS. (Warren Commission Document #844 --

CIA Memorandum to J. Lee Rankin of Warren Commission, dated

24 April 1964 -- was not processed against the Oswald 201 and

appears neither in the released nor denied list of documents. A

check with NARS reflects that Warren Commission Document

#844 was authorized for release in its entirety earlier in 1975.)

Amandated 5 cesariao Code

---

## Page 3

13-00000 .

•.....wo..GC7M1116111'1!

- 2

AL DES ONLY

The same information is reflected in the Oswald package as

Item #282 (partial declassification) identified as:

CSCI to FBI dated 22 April 1964, Subject: Assassina-

tion of President John F. Kennedy - Bio Info on Lydia

Dimytruk.

Since Warren Commission Document #844 is declassified in

its entirety, it appears Oswald Document #282 should be con-

sidered for declassification in its entirety.

..

din-

E. Mendoza

Chief, CI/PA

ADMANGT INE INTREAL USE ONLY

---

