# 111-10004-10002

## Page 1

111-10004-10002

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: DIA

RECORD NUMBER :

111-10004-10002

RECORD SERIES: ARMY INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ACCESSION NUMBER 373-65A3363

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2205852

Document Inforination.

ORIGINATOR: USA

FROM:

MATLACK DOROTHE K.

TO:

TITLE: US MILITARY DEFECTOR VLADIMIR SLOBODA

DATE: 06/26/1962

PAGES:.

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

U.S. DEFECTORS TO SOVIET UNION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B

Redact

04/07/1998

See Source line. Source is given as "Debriefing of DS-2137 by .CIA."

v9. 1.

NW 46936

DocId: 32423649

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Le]

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

NOTE Reproduation of this deceans in

whale or in pert is prahibited, I wacred er

lap scret, escapt with puristen of the

issuina office All requnto for ashoriry

to raproduce will be directad lo the Assist.

ang Chiel ot Staff for Intelligence, Deper.

mant of the Army.

COUNTRY

ISSE

INTELLIGENCE REPOR

SUBJECT

ES :litary iclecter

Jaci is Sloode (5)

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

NOTE This documant contains

affecting the national defunn

informintin

of the United

(Clawl/flastom

States within Me

al the supionage

laws, Titlo 18, U.S. C, Secs 793 and 79d, the

transmission or rmalarian al which in ar

manner to an madhorized paron is prohibi

led by law.

REPORT NO.

ID

2205852

DATE OF REPORT

20 6300 1962

NO. OF PAGES

DATE OF

INFO

1961

REFERENCES

PLACE a

CSGI-9/772,206

DATE ACQ.

EVALUATION

FROM

SOURCE

Debriefing OffIS-2707(37 CIA

PREPARED

RESIGN

SUMMARY (T CLASHED)

R-SERIES NO:

-65-62

to calloic insuction ine stained ma. IE.2137-

(SCLADIED;

SECTAL SHOES TO CEL

170C NIS TIPOE

"ose, Dy

sit colty of diest for

intol: Dete

Si ace

INTELL S

ECL IT DEC: ANGELIC REDES

DOD TIR 5200010 DOES TOE 1P I

DISTEDUTIO: I FITUZORS 1000

ENT BRANCH

ACS!. U. S. ARMY

VITEM: 30 GAYS

1o (S) The fallouine regurress uas placod te Scurces la rocert te Se

vilitary desector, Set. Jadimir Sloboda, 1s rou in the soviet hion and rocorect.

(9) Source was sian a coozes of, and tacieond inforat er 5

SLORODA. Souve sali sat in did not inor ELonA and inea nothing ce lie caso.

30 (S) lati: ronna to dise conducions under unaci the Beriote ai, li8 rolense

SLOBODA, Source said that us, would "ot allo such a pruce to rest. to tie: 3.

ales be had iven recruited iy soviet Intell yo.

Come

CONTES: (of Approving Of:loor)

Fann

APPROVEDE

DOROTE I. JArZACE

Chlaf, Exploitation Jarch,

Collection Division, airsI

3

EINTELLIGENCE REPORT

INFERNAL

DIA USE ONLY

jim.

66.249-62

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

NW 46936. DocId:32423649 Page 2

---

