124-10262-10364

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10282-10361
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 100-339235-241
: Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: SAC,NY
TITLE:
DATE: 03/10/1966
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS : Not Assassination Related
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/27/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : ;

v9.

187

HW 50953 DocId:32302849 Page 1


ee
Reo

Anderson

1 - Mr.
| “ gac, New York (100-42479)

3/10/66

Director, FBI (100-339235)

SUSAN HEILIGMAN PRANK
IS = CH

On 2/21/66, information was received from Central
Intelligence Agency that its seurce, “Sugar," known to your
office, had advised that on 1/26/66, while in Brussels, Belgium,
he met a woman who called herself Lisa Armand. She advised
"Sugar'that she was there for talks with Jacques Grippa, who is
the leader of the ‘pre-Chinese faction of the Belgian Communist a
;Party, goncerning the defense for William Epton. Follewing
Sugar’s conversation with Armand, he checked the hotel
Z register where Armand was staying amd determined tbat her
passport identification listed her as Mrs. Frank. s)

The above is being furnished for your infcrmation.

ar ; ngp art

NOTE:

f + |
Heprragiiee |

Subject has been active. in pro-Chinese communist activities
in the U. S. and reportedly is a contact of Chinese communist
intelligence in London, Engiand. Prior to her recent trip, subject

made inquiry concerning the address of Richard gibgon._former
head, of Fair Plav For Cuba Committee in the IS h

OMAR’ oes secre Declssy mane /
ner L_]

MAIL ROOM: TELETYPE UI

Sulliven ey
wy

Tavet

HW 50953 DocId:32302849 Page 2

