# 124-10185-10281

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10185-10281

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89A-DL-60165-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

01/21/1992

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 62-109060-8288

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/24/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

---

## Page 2

Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel-

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 8-29-85)*

• 0

143

BET

FBI

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

Facsimile

AIRTEL

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECXEN

UNCLAS EFT O

UNCLAS

i CORET COIFIBENTIAL

Date 1/21/92

DIRECTOR, FBI (ATTN: VIOLENT CRIMES SECTION, CID)

FROM M8/93 SAC, Washington Field OffiCe (DE 891-43) (RUC)

SUBJECT : ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.

RENNEDY,

5/70 AB8/5

19-43 J

DALLAS, TEXAS,

11/22/63

KFO

Classieed by

9803RDD/KSR

(00: DALLAS)

Baciessity

Re WMFO telcalls to Violent Crimes Unit, FBIHQ,

1/17/92 and FBI, Dallas, 1/21/92.

Enclosed for FBIHQ, Dallas and New York are two

copies each of a self-explanatory insert documenting

information from a high level New York source concerning

captioned matter.

For information of FBIHQ and Dallas, New York FCi

• COVERWEL

CCASSITLED

MA GHERE SHOWN

...

Approved:

DocId: 32163654 Page 2

sensitive high level information in both criminal and FCI

104060-8288

For clarification, attached

provided by WMFO as WMFO SA WILLIAM M. MACKEY is the original

source case agent who now is a designated an alternate source

contact agent.E) SA MACKEY is responsible for disseminating any

criminal information developed by source regarding

activities outside the New York Metropolitan area.

1070000

8IJ8

2-Bureau (Enc. 2)

2-Dallas Enc.

2)

2-New York (Attn: SA Dave Cayanaugh,

2-WMFO (Enc. 2)

WMM/ wmm

9l1/96 0/3/97: 1-2

Squad I-6)

Classified 980 32cel

Declassia ons 040F

REASON: 1.6 (8CD.)

SF4

1,5,10

CONFIDENTIAC

- Transmitted

(Number)

Per

(Time)

---

## Page 3

Moted us Me Un Kennedy Assisanation Recorus Caslection Acl ar 1992 lad USe 2207

DATE: 11-14-2017

• 00

DL 89A-43

PAGE TWO

inclusion in source file only.

no yode is long provided ineamation cop-s CNE

CONFIXEATAL

The attached is provided for whatever action deemed

appropriate.

Dallas.

Leads are being left to the discretion of

Since no leads are outstanding., WMFO is placing

this matter in RUC status.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Source providing the attached information is

ENY 2856-04104 (5)

WARNING: INFORMATION FROMANY E856-04 IS HIGHLY SINGULAR IN

S A HIGH LEVELINFORMANT CRITICAL TO MAJOR FCI AND CRIMINA

NVESTIGATIONS WHOSE IDENTITY, IF REVEALED, WILL POSITIVEL

LEAD IO PHYSICAL DANGER IO SOURCE AND SOURCE'S FAMILY. S

WARNING: DISSEMINATION OF THIS INFORMATION TO UNITED STATES CO-

IA CHANNELS THAT WOULD BRING INFORMATION

TO THE ATTENTION OF INR EMPLOYEE JESSE CLEAR MAY CREATE

SECURITY PROBLEMS FOR SOURCE. 12(

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO

ANY DISSEMINATION:

INFORMATION ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE PROVIDED TO ANY

OTHER AGENCY WITHOUT PRIOR BUREAU APPROVAL.

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO ANY DISSEMINATION:

INFORMATION ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE PROVIDED TO THE

UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) • (4)

*EGRET

CONTINeTAI

DocId: 32163654

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 Cäs USC 2107

DATE; 11-14-2017

ALÉ ENFORVATION CONTAINED

HEREIN TS UNCASSIFIED

94 892-13

SEC

The

Spllowing information was telephonically provided

Special Agent WILLIAM M. MACKEY, Federal Bureau (

of investigation (FBI), Washington Metropolitan Field Office Xon,

1/16-17/92:

attorney FRANK RAGANO

(phonetic) would be appearing on the ABC News show "PRIME TIME

LIVE" on 1/16/92 claiming to have information that former

TEAMSTERS President JIMMY HOFFA instructed La Cosa Nostra (LCN)

bosses

to kill President JOHN F. KENNEDY in 1963. Based upon

source's past relationship with both HOFFA and RAGANO, source

categorized RAGANO's claims as "lies". fe) (U)

Source advised source's relationship with HOFFA began

in the late 1950s while HOFFA was a Vice President of the

TEAMSTERS. Source's relationship with HOFFA lasted until HOFFA's

disappearance. Source described the relationship between

source

and HOFFA as "close" noting that source was one of HOFFA's few

associates who could meet with or call HOFFA at any time without

an appointment.

Source stated HOFFA offered source a position as

one of HOFFA'S trusted assistants which source respectfully

declined.

(s)

In regard to RAGANO, [source recalled attending only

three or four meetings with HOFFA_and others in the early 1960s

which were also attended by RAGANO. Although source has not had

contact with RAGANO for many years, source recalled RAGANO (like

most people attempting to contact HOFFA) was required to make an

appointment to see HOFFA in the early 1960s. Source was not aware

if RAGANO'S status with HOFFA changed

in later years.

Source identified attorneys close to HOFFA as EDDIE

SHAFITZ (phonetic), a partner of the late EDWARD BENNETT WILLIAMS

in Washington, D.C. and an attorney (name not recalled) who was a

close associate of the BUFFALINO LCN family.

Source did not

consider RAGANO an attorney "close" to HOFFA

(a)

Source advised HOFFA was very close

to LCN boss SANTOS

TRAFFICANTE and other LCN members. Source said HOFFA was capable

of ordering a contract "hit".

Source advised HOFFA was always

EXCEPT WREND SH0G2

02:1

"doing favors" for high level LCN members and, if HOFFA requested

a contract "hit"

"hit" probably would have been done by the

LCN for

690111)

117010 tSt

462-03

15/932

JEfE

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-14/44

REASON:

(B.C,.D.)

DECLASSIFY ON: X

5. 6.

Daniassig

5FK

SCRET

Classifien

by

98032225el

Veclassm

ол: DADR

Page 4

62-109060-8288

SEXIETT

CONFIXENTIAR

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CC

Source identified JOSEPH. CONNO (phonetic) as a current

TEAMSTERS official in New York City.

Source described CONNO as

one of HOFFA's close assistants in the 1960s who may have

knowledge of HOFFA's activities

PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

one activities prior to

prjor to the assassination of

vuis

MAL

Based upon source's relationships with past

LCN bosses,

source commented that if RAGANO's claims about an LN contract

against PRESIDENT KENNEDY were true, RAGANO would have been

killed by the LCN years ago. Based on RAGANO's claims that HOFFA,

through RAGANO, requested TRAFFICANTE to arrange for the murder

of PRESIDENT KENNEDY, RAGANO should have been killed shortly

after PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S assassination. This would have been

done to prevent RAGANO from identifying either HOFFA or

TRAFFICANTE as orchestrating the "hit".

ADMINISTRATIVE:

WARNING: INFORMATION FROMXNY (7856-0A

IS HIGHLY SINGULAR IN NATURE

AND DISCLOSURES COULD REVEAL

SOURCE'S IDENTITY. SOURCE IS A HIGH

LEVEL INFORMANT (CRITICAL TO

INVESTIGATIONSIS WHOSE IDENTITY, IF REVEALED, WILL POSITIVELY LEAD

TO PHYSICAL DANGER TO SOURCE AND SOURCE'S FAMILY./

WARNING: DISSEMINATA

OF THIS INFORMATION TO UNITED STATES LA

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

YA CHANNELS THAT WOULD BRING INFORMATION TO

THE ATTENTION OF INR

PROBLEMS FOR SOURCE.

EMPIQUEE JESSE CLEAR MAY CREATE SECURITY

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO ANY DISSEMINATION: INFORMATION

ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE PROVIDED TO ANY OTHER AGENCY

WITHOUT PRIOR BUREAU APPROVAL.

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO ANY DISSEMINATION:

INFORMATION ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE PROVIDED TO THE UNITED

STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) (LA

SECKETO

DocId: 32163654 Page 5

SECON

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note). DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 8-29-85)"

, FBI

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

Facsimile

AIRTEL

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EFT O

UNCLAS

ENTA Date 1/21/92

ALE INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN T& BACLASSIFIED

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (ATTN: VIOLENT CRIMES SECTION, CID)

FROM : SAC, Washington Field OffiCe (DI 89A-43) (RUC) 5A9 HBB/KI

SUBJECT : ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, 1-0728-93554

DALLAS, TEXAS,

11/22/63

9803 ADD KSK

KFO

JFK)

(00: DALLAS)

Re WMFO telcalls to Violent Crimes Unit, FBIHQ,

1/17/92 and FBI, Dallas, 1/21/92.

Enclosed

for FBIHQ, Dallas and New York are two

copies each of a self-explanatory insert documenting

information from a high level New York source concerning

captioned matter.

For information of FBIHQ and Dallas, New York FCI

This source has provided reliable ana very

sensitive high level information in both criminal ana rur

matters for many years. gE

For clarification, attached information is being

provided by WMFO as WMFO SA WILLIAM M. MACKEY is the original

source case agent who now is a designated an alternate source

contact agent] SA MACKEY is responsible for disseminating any

criminal information developed by source regarding criminal

activities outside the New York Metropolitan area.

OTHERMISE

2-Bureau (Enc. 2)

2-Dallas (Enc. 2)

2-New York (Attn: SA Dave Cavanaugh, Squad I-6)

2-WMFO (Enc. 2)

WMM/ wmm

91696°

43/99

CLALSTED BY 5668 SED/ride

Classied Dy .

9803 гра/дл

Declassity on: 000K

REAGOD•

DECLASSIFY ON: X

1,5.161

Approved:

DocId: 32163654 Page 6

Transmitted

SECRET

Per

(Number)

(Time)

---

