# 124-10221-10245

## Page 1

124-10221-10245

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10245

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 185-789-1655

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, BUE

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/11/1977

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

08/17/1998

STATUS Redact

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO AISC

NH 50953

DocId: 32340852 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Assoc. Dir 57=

Dep. AD Adm...

Dep.

AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

SECRET

P/111845Z OCT 77

Ост 11 8.45 PM."77

RECENED

IM BUENOS AIRES (15 7-35) ( PEDERAL BUREAU,

OF INVESTIGATIÓNI

TO DIRECI OR (185 - 189)

PRIORICY 25550TON

CARACAS (174-8)

PRIORITY 039-11

Adm.

Serv

Crim.

Inv

Fin. & Pers.

Ident.

Intell

Laker +-Y

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Legal Cuun.

Plan. & Tnsp.-

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIAB

? Rec. Mignt.

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWD

Spec. Inv.

OTHERWISE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

BT

GLASS.

BY SpoN

65K/clo

DECLASSIFICATION"ANDIOR

REASON

PCIM 11, 1-2

RELEASE OF KFORMATION

SECRET

DATE OF REVIEW.

10-11-

2009

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

-ХСЕРТ BRACKETS

OOH ILBOM;) PFO-MURDER; EID; 00J. 00: WFO.

REMYCABLE, SEPTEMBER 23, 1977, WHICH CONTAINED INFORMATION ILI

PROVIDED BY THE CENTRO NACIONAL DE INFORMACIONES (CNI)

FORMERLY KNOWN AS DINA) CONCERNING CONTACIS IN CHILE BY

CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCHAVILA. (S)

CUBA

THE

FOLLOWING INFORMATION AS PROVIDED BY

CONCERNING INDIVIDUALS REFERRED TO IN MY CABLE OF

APPROPRIA TEAGENCIE

REFERENCE;

AND FIELD

VETOES

FILES CONTAINED

INFORMATION

ADVISED EX

GOUTING

SLIP(S)

8.2353

WHICH APPEARED IN THE JUNE 20, 1972 ISSU-D

"EL MERCURIQED 12.

A SPANISH LANGUAGE DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHED

VILISHED 3SSABEB980 185-789-1655

HERIAINING TO CARLOSYASHTON YUGALDE WHICH INDICATED THIS

OCT 13 1977

INDIVIDUAL WAS ELECTED TO THE POSITION OF EXECUTIVE VICE=

PRESIDENT (TREASURER)

OR THE ASSOCIATION OF CHILEAN RADIO

BROAD Classied by:

Declassity gly

Brackets P91, 192,3

Petter 4/29/8-14-81

10.13MM

1011177

58N0

7977

SECRET

7211,326

Classitied by

-1-

Declassify on: OADR

9,9

per release in 194-52027-20k37

NH 50953 DocId: 32340852 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO BUE 157-35 SECRET

BROADCASTERS (ARCHI) IN THE NEW DIRECIORATE FOR THAT

ORGANIZATION DURING THE PERIOD 1972-1974. II COULD NOT BE

ESTABLISHED WHETHER EARLOS ASHION UGALDE-IS IDENTICAL WITH

CORVETTE CAPTAIN CARLOS ASHTON, WHO WAS ASSIGNED TO THE CHILEAN

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS (MFRYAND AN ALLEGED CONTACT

F BOSCH.

CHILE

INDICATE THAT A CIA SOURCE OF UNKNOWN

RELIABILITY REPORTED THAT IN 1969

MANUEL

FUENTES WAS A REPORTER

IN70238

FOR RADIO BALMACEDA. SANTIAGO./

A NEWSPAPER ARTICLE APPEARING IN THE JULY 29 1973 ISSUE

OF "EL MERCURIO"

• SUPRA, REPORTED THAT MANUEL, FUENTESHUEDLING phi

MANUEL

QUENTES WENDING

CALSO REPORTED AS WENDLING)

WAS THE SECRETARY OF THE "PARIA

Y LIBERIAD" ORGANIZAT ION. THE ARTICLE FURTHER REPORTED THAI CHILE

FUENTES WEDLING, TOGETHER WITH FOUR OTHER MEMBERS OF "PATRIA Y

LIBERIAD", SOUGHT ASYLUM IN THE ECUADORIAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO

ON JUNE 29, 1973 AND THAT THE GROUP SUBSEQUENTLY TRAVELED TO

ECUADOR AS ASYLEES ON JULY 7, 19730 IT IS NOTED THAI, THE ALLENDE

GOVERNMENT HAD BEEN VIOLENTLY OPPOSED BY "QATRIA Y LIBERTAD"

AND THAT WITH THE OVERTHROW OF THE ALLENDE GOVERNMENT ON SEPTEMBER

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32340852 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE BUE 157-35 SECREI

11, 1973, IN ALL PROBABILITY, INDIVIDUALS WHO FLED CHILE FOR

OPPOSITION TO THIS GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE BEEN ALLOWED TO RETURN. (SO/U.)

A USUALLY RELIABLE CIA SOURCE REPORTED IN SANTIAGO

DURING 1971 IHAT CHILEAN NAVAL CAPTAIN JAIME ROJASAURUGUES

WAS AN INSTRUCTOR OF CRYPTOLOGY IN THE CHILEAN ARMY GOZ CHILE

INTELLIGENCE TRAINING GROUP® THE CIA SOURCE OBTAINED THIS

INFORMATION FROMA CLOSE FRIEND WHO WAS A STUDENT IN IHIS

INTELLIGENCE GROUP. (S)

— RECORDS OF THE DEFENSE ATTACHE OFFICE, SANTIAGO-INDICATE

-THAI JAIME ROJAS BRUGUÉS IN JANUARY, 1974 WAS SERVING AS THE

SECURITY CHIEF OF THE CHILEAN MFR AND THAT HIS PRIMARY AREA OF

RESPONSIBILITY WAS ASYLEE-REFUGEE AFFAIRS. *DEFENSE ATTACHE OFFICE

RECORD'S IN SANTIAGO INDICATE IHAT THE COMMANDER OF THE CHILEAN

NAVAL TRAINING SHIP, "ESMERALDA" IS JORGE SONUAVANZO CINTOLESI.

—II. IS RECALLED I-HAT CNIREPORTED THAT BOSCH RE-ENTERED CHILE

DURING AUGUST, 1975 WITH A FALSE CHILEAN PASSPORT UNDER THE

IDENTITY OF HECTORYDAVANZO CINTOLEST. CNI ALSO REPORTED THAT THE

PASSPORT OF HECTOR DAVANZO CINTOLESI UTILIZED BY BOSCH WAS FALSE

AND THAI THE BIOGRAPHIC DAIA CONTAINED THEREIN WAS IDENTICAL TO (S)

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32340852 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE FIVE BUE 15 7-35 SEC RAB

THAT PERTAINING TO THE BROTHER

(S.)

CS.

WFO. (U)

COMMANDER OF THE "ESMERALDA."

BUREAU REQUESTED TO ADVISE MIAMI, NEWARK, NEW YORK AND

ARMED AND DANGEROUS•

BI

ETWZS IZQZE UEMY

JCWBKY E

SECREEL

-4-

Nt 70953

Doold: 32340852 Page 5

---

