# 124-10140-10092

## Page 1

124-10140-10092

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10140-10092

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

105-1766-185

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: 'CIA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/04/1965

PAGES: 12

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 100-32965-301

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

06/02/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

50953

DooId: 32160504

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

V. NNG HOTICE SENSITIVE

SOURCE. AND METHOES INVOLVED

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

TO

14 MAY 1965

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEAK CHE

ON AND'OR

INKORMATION

MENTAS SANITTLE

SUSJECTO

DitoctOr

Federal, Bureau of Invostigation

Persons

in Corto pondenco with coorgorand Joanno

DO MOH RENSCHILDT In Hates

dated

Reference is made to this Agoney S CSCI-316/01306-65

Sprin gos concerning the ace mitios nuat

and Jeanne De MOHRENSCHILDT Your file number 100332965

During recent months Goorge De MOHRENSCHILDT has

received mail at the United States Embassy In. Port-au-Prince.

Haiti, bearing the following return addresses!

J. Paul Roston

3211 Cherry Lane

Austin 3, Texás

(postmarked Long Beach, California on 9 Fobruary 1965)

218 West Front Street

Media, Pennsylvanta

(postmarked 9 February 1965)

Tustyn Strumitto

Paris XVII

-Rue Verniguet

DECLA N

France

(postmarked 15 January 1965)

15igh Plains Gas Company

1717 Southland Center

Dallas 1

Texas

(postmarked 5 February 1965)

rustyn strumitto

PATIS AVITS

11 Rue Verniguet

France

0/05

1266

105

1266

SEARCHEDS

SERIALIZED

INDEXED.

FIED OV

MAY 211965/

FBIE DALLAS

85

13poy copy. to 106-1266

WARNINO NOTICE SENSITIVE

•SECRET SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

NH 50959 DocId: 32160504

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MANNING COLICE-SENSITIVE

SOURCES AND METRONG INGLVED

• 10-

Attached is being of possible intorest is a photos

print of Georgo De MOURENSCHILDT's contracts with tho Haitian

Covornment which appearod in the Halti Pross: (Enclosuro d7)

The lotters bearing the return addross of High Plains

Natural Cos Company, With respect to the lottor bearing the

recurn address of

3003 Hahanna Springs, Apartment Bo

TRo CLARK, who has previously been reported by your Bureau as

our rocords roflect that it is the residonce of Mrs.

an aquaintanco of the De MOHRENSCHILDTS.

The letter from Madamo

De LEPOVATY (sic) in Paris, France, is undoubtadly from Vera de

LIPOVATZ aka Vera SCHMINT on whom you have furnishod infomation

in connection with the De MOHRENSCHILDTS.

The letter from

Dartmouth Collego signod by Dimitri (500 enclosuro 13) is from

Dimitri De MONRENSCHILDT, the brother of George.

The author of

the letters bearing the return address of Croat Southwest Hare

nouses, ince, ballas, lexas, are probably from Pierre Rone

PREYSS on whom we furnished

InTOrmAtION IN OUr CSCT-316/0136-64

datod s April 1965,

entitlod "Activities in Haiti of George and

Jeanne Do MONRENSCUILDT"

The lettors from KRARTON in Phila

dolphia..Ponnsylvania,.are from Christiana and Reginald KEARTON,

the daughter and son-in-law respoctivoly of George De MOnkEN-

SCHILUT.

8.

Your Bureau has previously furnished information on

LaWTenCe ORLD; SOOIgO NO PRICE and GoOrgO Me MILLAN citod in

paragram - alovo.

(S)

9

reprosentativo of this Agency in Paris, Franco, was

unable to furnish any information on Tustyn STRUMITTO, cited in

paragraph 2 above, who resides at 1l Rue Verniguot, Paris, Franco.

If your Burenu 50

dosires

this offico will query

French authorities for information on STRUMITTO.

the appropriate

10.

No Information is available in the

files of this offico

on othor porsons montioned in tho abovo report.

11o Attached

aro 12 Filo Chock Forms (in duplicato) on those

persons citod abovo on whom this offico would ayprociate recoiving

derogatory information which may be avnilable in the files of your

Bureau.

Also attachod aro three (3) addrosses on which we would

approciate identification and information on the person(s) resid

ing at those addresses if possible.

WAMING NOTICE SENSITIVE

SECRET

•SOURCES AND RETHODS INVOLVED

HH 50953 DooId: 32160504 Page 3

---

