124-90124-10078)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90124-10078

HQ

CR 109-12-380-57

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

DEPT. OF DEFENSE
DOD

09/08/1976
4

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

1A

Redact

11/05/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

MEMO

v9.1

HW 50953 DocId:32335520 Page 1


r~

CJNLY

“Clements said the Cubans wanted to have a meeting and he was willing
to escort them into the building (Pentagon). He said he had a Pentagon 1D.
! told him that | had passed the information he had to the DIA but they had
not responded as yet about a meeting.

. 1 told him | would call later in the morning. 1 then called DIA/NMIC
‘to pass the new information to them. DIA called back shortly and said 1
would be contacted by someone in the CIA.

2
A little a and asked that 1 go
down to DIA/NMIC so he could discuss the situation with me on a secure

telephone. | told him of my call from Clements and about the previous
“incident. He said he had only sketchy information on the first incident
-but that he would look into it immediately. |! told him Clements was waiting
for a return call. He said he would take of that. | dropped the matter.

Approximately one hour later | received another call from Clements
because no one had called him. | told him | would_call back shortly i
called DIA/NMIC and asked them to inform the CIA.

alled nie back and said the CIA was not Thterested tn talking to ed 4
the Cubans because of their khown affiliation with an anti-Castro terrorist Dey |
group in the US. He suggested | pass the information to the FBI, Mr. Willis cok i

Walton, FBI/INTED, telephone 175-4656 (interagency call). Mr. Walton knew
of the Cubans from other activities. 1! told him what had transpired. He

recommended that | inform Clements that no agency of the US Government is

willing to meet with the Cubans and suggest that he visit the nearest FBI

field office and pass what. information he has to them. I called Clements

and informed him of the FBI's recommendation. 1! dropped the matter.

At approximately 1400 the same day, a man came into the office (Africa
Region) and said he was Dick Clements: | asked for identification and he
showed a Pentagon building pass. | introduced him to Mr. Reed, Director,
Africa Region, OASD/ISA, and Mr. Hamilton, the analyst responsible for

Angolan affairs. Cleménts said he was in the building on other busifess Var

and just. "dropped ,bf'. He said he had met with the Cubans and informed
“them that no @geficy would meet with them. He said a third Cuban was with
them - Robert}€arballo, their contact with Cuba., Clements said that during
their converSation he determined: (1) that the information about the
desire of a number of Cubans in Angola to defect came from Roberto Carballo
through other Cubans who had returned to Cuba from Angola, (2) that the
Cubans had been in contact with representatives of President Somoza of
Nicaragua, seeking his assistance, (3) that the basic concept was to set

up stations in a country bordering Angola and wage a campaign to inform
Cubans still in Angola of their existence, with the expectation (based

on the evidence they had) that large numbers of Cubans would take advantage
of the opportunity to defect. Clements also said he overheard a conversation

HW 50953 DocId:32335520 Page 2

