# 124-10278-10398

## Page 1

124-10278-10398

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10398

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-79

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/18/1963

* PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, ACA, MEMBERS, PLANE, BOATS, RAID, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC NOTE, MEMO, LHM

49.1

HY 50953

14

DooId: 32301563

Page

1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

REO- 45

1 - 121500

1 - Nasca

(NT) 97-4476 7 9

EX-115

Date:

To:

December 20, 1963

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ritRtIN Is UN

ASSIFIED

Director

DATE 9/1/85

Bureau of Intelligence and Research

Department of State

ANG

From:

John Edger Hoover, Director

Subject: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECTONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIO

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

NEUTRALITI MATTERS

RESCUE CAN A DAMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

EXCEPT FOR BRACES

MKH 26-48

219-48

CLASSIFIED BY 5468 S60/Ie5R

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

JFK

Reference is made to our letter dated December 18,

1963, with enclosure.

Attached for each recipient is a copy of a

memorandum dated December 20, 1963.

This will confim inforation prally turnished to

Mr. B. N. Powers, Department of State Mr. Bay Wotring e

Central Intelligence Agensy, (Mr. Lester Johnson, Bureau of

Custons; Mr. James T. Murpily, Federal Aviation Ageney; and

Captain Willian Edwards, Defense Intelligence Agency.

by

Mr. A. J. Decker of this Bureau on December 18, 1963•

We are endeavoring to obtain additional intormation

and the pertinent data will be fade

available to the

recipients.

Enclosure

COURIEN SIC

2 2 DEC2 3

2/21/9

COMM - FBL

(OPA

Tolson:

Belmont

Mohe

Casperi

Callahan

Contadi

Deloach

Galel

Rosen

1 - Directori (Enclosure)

Central Intelligence Agency

Atteption: , Deputy

Director.

Plans

VHN: klw

(14)

DEE 50

SEU-D NEV

Sullivan -

OSURE

Tavel

Trollar

I EAT

Toles. Foon

Holmes t

1 20 1964

Gandy

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIF L

V /VISCA

Wiew

HM 50953

DoId: 32301563

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Domestie Inteli gence Division

Informative Note

12-18-63

Mtamt Office source, Alpizar, approached

during past week by leader of Movintento

Insurrectonal de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

(MIRR), anti-Castro group, to pilot plane on

bombing rave cuba scheduled for current week.

Plane to be flown from Florida to

Bimini,

Bahama Islands

territory), by

Amertean pilot

on ostensible pleasure flight

and Alpizar and erew members to travel to

Bimint in boat. Alpizar identified Johnson

individual who has rented aircraft to be

used on raid and positively identified plane

involved. Johnson

prevlously involved in

operations MIRA.

owner of plane

previously rented planes for

similar operations

Miamt has furnished pertinent data to

Bahamanion authorities, Customs and Federal

Autation Agency (FAA),

Miami, and Bureau has

disseminated to interested agencies at head

quarters level. Alpizar continuing efforts

to identify boats and customs will exeroise

its seizure powers to prevent departure of

boats and plane if necessary. Attached

teletype advises Alpizar will make practice

flight 12 19-63 and final practice flight

12-20-63. Weather favorable and possible

raid will ocour this weekend. He are following

closely and information in attached

disseminated 12-18-63 FAA, Customs, State,

CIA, Defense Intelligence Agenoy and

John I. Davitt, Department attorney.

AJD

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

97-4474-79

DAREN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE

7/505

MY 60959 DooId: 32301563 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRE4

Kay Wotring

Customs:

Lester Johnson

FAA :

James T. Murphy

DitA:

capt. wM. EdwARds

SECRET

97-4474-79

958-18788

HN 50953 DooId:32301563 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Domestio Intelzigence Division

Informative Note

ATT TUTORMARTON CONTTATNIID

SECRET

BURIAN IS.

437T50182278-63

Voted Su

Miami Office source,

Alpizar,

approached

during past week by leader of Movimiento

Insurrectonal de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

(MIRR), anti-castro groups

to pilot plane on

bombing raid Cuba scheduled for ourrent week.

Plane to be Slown from Florida to Bimini,

Bahama Islands L

territory), by

American pilot on ostensible pleasure flight

and Alpizar and crew members to travel to

Bimini

in boat. Alpizar identified Johnson as

individual who has vented airoraft to be

used on raid and positively identified plane

involved. Johnson previously involved in

operations MIRE.

I owner of plane

previously rented planes for similar operation.

Miami has furnished pertinent data to

Bahamanian authorities, customs ond Federal

Aviation Agency (FAA), Miami, and Bureau has

dissemirated to interested agencies at head-

quarters level. Alpizar continuing efforts

to identify boats and Custons will exeroise

its seizure powers to prevent departure of

boats and plane if necessary. Attached

teletype advises Alpizar will make praotice

flight 12-19-63 and Jinal practice flight

12-20-63. Weather favorable and possible

raid will occur this weekend. He are following

closely and information in attached

disseminated 12-18-63 FAA, Customs,

State,

CIA, Defense Intelligence Agency and

John 1. Davitt, Department attorney

2/27

AJD

ALL INFORMXATION CONTADED

HEREIN IS UNSCASSIFIEU

DATE 9/1/85)

BYGI BSA/beL

57-4474-79

(JEK)

SECRET

Nt 50953 DocId: 32301563 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRED

1 - Liaison

1 - Nasca

(NI) 97-4474

December 20, 1963

139032

ALL INSORMATIOU CONTAINED

HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIS LED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOTM

OTHERNISE

MOVIMTENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

2/1895 SpoMACGAT

Classified by 516BIB/GCL

Declassify on: OADR9/n/85

(OFK)

Previous information has indicated that the

captioned anti-Castro organization is planning to carzy out

a bombing raid over Cuba from Bimini In the Bahama Islands.

The airplane scheduled to be used in the raid is located

at the Broward International Airport, Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

On December 18, 1963, our source in this matter

who has furnished reliable information in the past advised

that a practice flight in the Aero Conmander airplane,

number N2624B, located at the above-mentioned airport and

scheduled to be used on the raid, was to be made on December 19,

1963, and that a final practice flight was scheduled to be made

on December 20, 1963. No practice flight will be made over

Bimini as

the owner of the airplane, is opposed

to it for

security reasons.

Orlando Bosch Avila, head of the captioned organization,

plans to have a quantity of propaganda leaflets dropped from

the airplane during the raid over Cube. Bosch and his

associates have described a boat to be used in this operation

as being 28 feet long with a bridge on top. With reference to

this boat, our source has learned that William Johnson,

United States citizen, pilot and businessman who was involved

in arranging for the airplane to be used on this raid, is

also involved in arranging for the use of the above-mentioned

boat.

Tolson

Belmont:

authorities have been advised. (5)

Mohni

Casper:

Callahon

Conrad

(16)

Lel bach a

9714474-19

Evans.

NOTE :

Cale

Original to Yeagley separately.

Copies to State,

CIA,

Rosen

Sullivenie

Army, Navy, Air Force, DIA, Customs, INS, FAA, Coast Guard.

Copies

Tavel

separately being furnished John Crimmins, Coordinator Cuban Affairs,

Tele, Room Department of State, by Courler Service and

Gandvi

MAIL ROOML

TELETYPE UNIT

ENCLOSURE SECRET WAN Rem

HW 50953.

DooId: 32301563 Page 6

---

## Page 7

'SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWE

OTHERWISE

FEDERAL BUREAU DE INVESTEAU ON

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUsUIC

COMMULICATOES SENION

DEC 1 81963 pL

TELETYPE

delicin

54x.

BEr.

Mix.

2/3g/63

URGENT

12-18-63

9-14

TO DIRECTOR

197-44741

PM EST BUTTAS SPSMACGA

Classified by SP6 BETA/GaL

Declassify on: OADRY/s

FROMEgAC, MIAMI 1105-2855 1

MOVIMIENTO IASURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

WATERNAL SECURITY

MIRR/, IS BACH CUBA, NiNestpalty MAtteR

Walmall

REBUTEL AND MIAMI TEL DATED DECEMBER SEVENTEEN, SIXTYTHREE•

TODAY MIAMI HAD DISCUSSION WITH JOHN KINNEY AND HIS SUPERIOP, FAY

LINEHAN, SUPERVISING INSPECTOR FIRT AND AGARD FICKTE, NO SO CUSTOS,

WHO IS HANDLING INSTANT CASE FOR CUSTOMS, AND REITERATED BUREAU/S

POSITION THAT PREVENTION OF RAID IS WITHIN JURISDICTION OF CUSTOMS AND

FAA, AND CONSEQUENTLY THIS OFFICE NOT MAKING ANY REQUESTS FOR GROUND-

ING INSTANT PLANE. LINEHAN STATED FAA HAS INVESTIGATIVE POWERS BUT

NO POLIGE POWERS AND IF PLANE IS GROUNDED IT WOULD HAVE TO BE BY

ACTIN DE CUSTORS AGENCY, LINEHAN STATED TAA VOULD CONTINUE TO TAEL

COOPERATE, WITHIN SCOPE ITS JURISDICTION. FICKIE ADVISED THAT U. S.

CUSTOMS IS: PREPARED TAKE PROPER ACTION AND WILL COORDINATE WITH FAA.

TODAY-EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, /PROTECT/, ADVISED THAT HE MET LAST

NIGHT AND THIS MORNING WITH DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR, WHO

GAVE HIM SEVENTYTIVE DOLLARS FOR

PRACTICE FLIGHT WITH

AERO COMMANDER AT BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIPPORT ON DECEMBER NINETEEN.

A TANAI

PRABHICE FLIGHT IS ALSO NOW SCHEDULED FOR MACHT OTAECOMBER

IWENTY & SIXTYTHREE BY ALPIZAR.

PRACTICE FLIGHT OVER BIMING WILL NOT

END PAGE ONE

remm

145

5 JAN 9 1964

SECRET

NY 50953 DocId:32301563. Page

---

## Page 8

I SECRED

PAGE TWO

TAKE PLACE AS

JIS OPPOSED TO THIS FOR SECURITY REASONS•

WEATHER CONDITIONS IN MIAMI AREA ARE NOW FAVORABLE.

BOSCH PLANS TO HAVE QUANTITY OF PROPAGANDA LEAFLETS DROPPED

DURING RAID OVER CUBA.

ALPIZAR, WHO HAS MECHANICAL SKILL, HAS OFFERED TO CHECK OUT

MOTORS ON BOAT TO BE USED PRIOR TO ITS DEPARTURE AND HE BELIEVES HIS

OFFER WILL BE ACCEPTED BY BOSCH. BOSCH AND HIS ASSOCIATES NOW DESCRIBE

BOAT AS BEING TWENTYEIGHT FEET LONG WITH A BRIDGE ON TOP• ALPIZAR

HAS LEARNED THAT WILLIAM JOHNSON IS INVOLVED ALSO IN ARRANGING FOR

USE OF THIS BOAT•

MIAMI HAS ADVISED

(ENU)

U.S. CUSTOMS,

AND OTHER LOCAL FEDERAL AGENCIES RE PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS AND WILL

CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON WITH THEM. LETTERHEAD MEMO SUIT-

ABLE FOR DISSEMINATION WILL BE SUBMITTED TWELVE NINETEEN SIXTYTHREE•

BUREAU WILL BE IMMEDIATELY ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS•

END AND ACK PLS

WA

9-22 PM OK FBI WA. LAS

TU AND DISC

CAI

MIX

By..

-Fime Z.soP?

SECRET

97-4474-79

0'8

NW 50953 DocId: 32301563:

Page

---

## Page 9

Classified by SP6 BTA BeL

e8MAC/GAT (JF

Declassify on:

OADR 4/0/85

VANIKIW

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

EXCEPT WUERE SHOEN

OF INVESTENTION

MENT OF AUSTIN

CATIONS SECHOE

DEC1 8 1963

TELETYPE

SECRET

2. =

URGENT

12-18-63

9-14

PM EST RM

Tina

TO DINECTOR

19744474/

D.E.

FROM SAGA

MIAMI /105-28551

Wa

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARID

MIRR/, IS DASH CUBA, NN

REBUTEL ANOMIANI TEL DATED DECEMBER SEVENTEEN, SIXTYTHREE.

TODAY MIAMI HAD DISCUSSION WITH JOHN KINNEY AND MIS SUPERIOR, FAY

LINEMAN, SUPERVISING INSPECTOR, FAA, AND EDWARD FICKIE, UN S• CUSTOMS,

WHO IS HANDLING INSTANT CASE FOR CUSTOMS, AND REITERATED BUREAU/S

POSITION THAT PREVENTION OF RAID IS WITHIN JURISDICTION OF CUSTOMS AND

FAA, AND CONSEQUENTLY THIS OFFICE NOT MAKING ANY REQUESTS FOR GROUND-

• ING

INSTANT PLANE. LINEHAN STATED FAA HAS INVESTIGATIVE POVERS BUT

§ NO

POLICE POVERS AND IF PLANE IS GROUNDED IT WOULD HAVE TO BE BY

chris

ACTION OF CUSTOMS AGENCY, LINEHAN STATED. FAA WOULD CONTINUE TO FREELY

SYCOOPERATE WITHIN SCOPE ITS JURISDICTION. FICKIE ADVISED THAT U. SA

LOCUSTOMS IS PREPARED TAKE PROPER ACTION AND VILL COORDINATE UITH FAN.

TODAY EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ, /PROTECT/, ADVISED THAT HE MET LAST

§NIGHT AND THIS MORNING WITH DR- ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MERR, WHO

GAVE HIM SEVENTYEIVE DOLLARS FOR A PRACTICE FLIGAT WITH

AERO COMMANDER AT BROWARD INTERNATIONÃL AIRPORT ON DECEMBER NINETEEN

FINAL PRACTICE FLICHT IS ALSO NOW SCHEDULED FOR NIGHT OF DECEMBER

TWENTY, SIXTYTHREE BY ALPIZAR-

PRACTICE FLIGHT ÓVER BIMINI WILL NOT

NO PAGE ON

Eng)

(EM).

Let HAd Yeagles

20-63

UHN KIW

i 1300

GOSECRET

12-20-63

97-4474-79

HW 50953 DooId:32301563 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

PAGE TVO

TAKE PLACE AS

IS OPPOSED TO TNIS FOR SECURITY REASONS.

WEATHER CONDITIONS IN MIAMI AREA ARE NOW FAVORABLE.

BOSCH PLANS TO RAVE QUANTITY OF PROPAÇANDA LEAFLETS DROPPED

DURING RAID OVER GUBA.

ALPIZAR, UHO HAS MECHANICAL SKILL, HAS OFFERED TO CHECK OUT

MOTORS ON BOAT TO DE USED PRIOR TO ITS DEPARTURE AND HE BELIEVES HIS

OFFER WILL BE ACCEPTED BY BOSCH

BOSCH AND HIS ASSOCIATES NOW DESCRIBE

BOAT AS BEING TUENTYEIGHT FEET LONG WITH A BRIDGE ON TOP, ALPIZAR

HAS LEARNED THAT WILLIAM JOHNSON IS INVOLVED ALSO IN ARRANGING FOR

USE OF THIS BOAT•

(68)(4)

MIAMI HAS ADVISED GREGE BENTLEY, SPECIAL BRANCH JU. So CUSTOMS,

AND OTHER LOCAL FEDERAL AGENCIIS

RE PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS AND WILL

CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON WITH THEM. LETTERHEAD MEMO SUIT-

ABLE FOR DISSEMINATION WILL BE SUBNITTED TVELVE NINETEEN SIXTYTHREE™

BUREAU WILL BE IMMEDIATELY ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPHENTS*

END AND ACK PLS

WA

822 PM OK FBI UA LA.

TU AND DISC

C

MB

Let, B

- Time 2: ga R

SECRET

974474-79

69e3.

HW 50953

DocId: 32301563

Page 10'

---

