# 124-90139-10138

## Page 1

124-90139-10138

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90139-10138

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-12-210-4315

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 05/10/1965

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32338011 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1.

SECRET

#H.

1 - Newpher

CE CALL CORIA ROD

100180:714D

5A24R

LICE PARICH

= 4/26/7B.BY

LOS REVIER AI POIS AVEN DELVERY

TO MSCA RE REGUEST DATED

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

May 10, 1963

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRCATION ANDOR,

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - QURASE US CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT

185-260-49 BrAckEt

A highly confidential informant who has furnished reliable

information in the past recently advised that on about February 20, 1963, LS)

naul nos, cuban l'oreign Minister, commented that the Sino - Indian

conflict continually bothers Cuba and this conflict worked in the favor

of the United States in the Fall of 1962.

3

10

Roa's evaluation of the situation in Cuba was highly pessimistic.

KIS

Roa stated that the situation has deteriorated; that this was the only thing

that could have happened because talks at the United Nations, New York,

did not find an answer to the problem. Roa also observed that conditions

as of February, 1963, were similar to those just before the crisis in the

Fall of 1962, mentioning pirate boat activities, a campaign in the United

States and a statement by President Kennedy which Roa described as

meaningless.

4/28/45

Classified by 5665

Declassily on: OADR (JFK

Tolson

Belmont

hohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

JeLoach

Evans

Gale

Gallivan -

(avel

rotter

ele. Room

Tolmes -

'andy.

Roa commented that the United States was the only nation which

benefited from the crisis. The informant understood that it was Roa's

contention that by excluding the Security Council of the United Nations

from considering the Cuban situation and permitting the Organization of

American States (OAS) to take up the matter freely, the United States

is now enjoying a very favorable position in the OAS, the best it has enjoyed

at any time in the Organization. In still referring to what the informant

believed was the OAS, Roa said that the report of the Antisubversive

UNAECORDED COPY FILED

Committee, now under study by the OAS, contains some definite proposals,

such as a collective breakoft and a breakoff in relations with Cuba including

postal contacts. Roa said it is known officially that Mexico will accept

such resolutions with reservations; Bolivia, Chile and Uruguay will accept

everything; and it is believed that only Brazil will oppose such resolutions.

Cuba, according to Roa, believes that talks between President Kennedy and

President Romulo Betancourt, Venezuela, will establish the action by the

DAS.

SECRET

JON: rmc

(7)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

109-12-210

O MAY

4315

(101644

1963

(PRIME)

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ingrander

polassiffeation

7 IS SicKe

ly licios 3/10/09

87 MAY 13 1963

HH 50953 DocId: 32338011 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

60345

FORKIGN POLITICAL MATTENS - CUBA

Roa also commented that it would have been much better it the

Cuban situation had been handled by the United Nations Security Council.

Among other things, this would have limited the ability of the CAS.

When it was suggested that time was working in Cuba's favor, Roa

agreed, saying it permitted internal consolidation, and economic and

organizational endeavors. He also mentioned the differences within

the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the hope for settlement of

differences in the Soviet Bloc and prospects for general relaxing of

strained relations between all countries.

Although Roa did not mention the Soviet Union at any time, it

appeared that he does not now agree with the Soviet Union's placing

missiles in Cuba In 196%. Roa's comments during the entire conversation

leit one with the feeling that he was pessimistic, according to the informant.

NOTE:

Classified "Top Secret" because unauthorized disclosure would

reveal a high-level intelligence operation involvine (PRIME, I our (5)

extremely sensitive source at the

PROPERTY OF THE FBI

This document contains neither

recommend. tions nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

SUr SECRET

HW 50953

DocId: 32338011

Page

3

---

