124-90092-10008)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90092-10008
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 62-80750-945
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: [Restricted]
TITLE:
DATE: 05/02/1949
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A; 1B

Redact

07/15/1998

APPROVAL OF CIA

LET

v9.1
INW 50953 Docld:32330763

Page 1


COPY: AJH : Bey
t a 7 a aay
é FEDERAL BUREAU Of INVESTIGATION
UNETED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

| Washington, D. C. i apasciccechaeces
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO . 5 : :
: DECLASSE CATION AND/OR, ° ate ae

rags Ci RPORMATION, PRSO!AE AND come
| IN THIS DOCUMENT. exept Jon Whe
i

Date: May 2, 1919 KP 1-29-4¢ xsualte ae

yor

Mr.

Pave

From: Director, FBI OmHERHE SB

| Subject: Yiepointaent of CIA Liaison Representative t Srtanay J
|

Reference is made to your letter dated March 28, 199 wherein
you advise that id received information
tive ing that,dme Cantral Intelligence Agency desire to place a representa-
ts

tive in fOttawa-\2ycu requested my comments the Bureau might be able to make
relative to this matter.

As you know, the Bureau, of course, can make no objection to the

recognize that it will tgke years to build y close lidison with the
ind related organizati@®ns They state, however,
Meh aotion Must be taken in view of CIA's jurisdiction in foreign

have confidentially advised the Bureau's liaison section that they readil
za

, For your further information, it has been ascert, ined confidentially
that CIA is presently considering onefSamuel Herman Horton, former Bureau

is questioned. (i orto?
He was beara o thé Richmond and Cincinnati Offices and was transferred to
| the Seat of Goverment on June 28, 193. He resigned on December 17, 194, to
accept a ane with the Office of Strategic Services

ue s 97 Director's Notation:
sh "sey exactly what we learned.
4 I don't like ‘such "wishy washy"
bp t_siby filtering information. Nor is it fair
= to[Bethel]g6t to let him know of low
ik) opinion ii a he is held.

He"

) ENCILOSURE a a-¥ = ¢s

establishment of such liaison. For your confidential information, information has
been received at the Seat of Goverment reflecting thatsQuch a CIA liaison repre-
{ sentative will be placed in Ganada Méknin the next few moka 39 Officials of CIA

axe > ENGR SHORE. v) aoe

Ik Agent and now an. empl of the Offi@8 of Special Operations, CIA, for the position
Bh vored the Bureau as a Special Agent on January 15, 190.

HW 50953 DocId:32330763 Page 2



SECRET

This is being brought to you for your attention so that you may be
completely aware of the situation. You should be particularly alert to prevent
being used as a "stepping stone" for CIR or (Hor ton, S)\cIA should develop its
own contacts without depending on the excelent relationships, already
established between the FBI and [Canadian ficial channels.fonly that
liaison necessary for thé coordination of domestic and foreign matters is
necessary & it should be most circumspect |

HW 50953 Docld:32330763 Page 3

