# 124-90060-10006

## Page 1

124-90060-10006

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90060-10006

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 139-4744-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LONG

TO :

GEBHARDT

TITLE:

DATE: 07/16/1974

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

ALLEGED TAPPING OF TELEPHONE OF U.S. SENATOR

HOWARD BAKER

LUCIEN CONEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

19.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32327257

Page

1

Date:

4/24/201

".. -

---

## Page 2

Long to Gebhardt Memo

Re: Alleged tapping of telephone of

•. U. S. Senator Howard Baker

SECREM

Gibson advised that during the course of a normal

working day two or three men usually enter and work in the

They stay during the course of an

entire day without leaving the space and do not seem to

conduct business in a normal manner. An unidentified

friend of Gibson's overheard individuals in the space,

allegedly leased by DEA, discussing "tapes."

Based on

above information and based on Gibson's experience with

wiretapping while employed with the Cobb County, Georgia,

Sheriff's Office, Gibson believes a wiretapping operation

was being conducted in the space allegedly sub-leased by

DEA from SCI.

Since it appeared that an ongoing CIA operation

was being compromised and that the CIA should be aware,

our Atlanta Office contactedl

CIA, Atlanta (SJ

(Covert) and informed him of the above on 7/11/74

on 7/12/74, Gibson furnished the following: .

Directly above Suite 1109, rented by SCI at

1028 Connecticut Avenue, is a suite

located on the

twelfth floor, which is

utilized

as an efficiency apartment.

It is connected to Suite 1109 on the floor below by stairway.

Gibson said the twelfth

floor space is actually the space

sub-leased to Conein and that telephone number 785-4514 is

installed in that space.

Conein sub-leased this apartment

in March,

1974, and was

still being used by Conein as of

7/5/74-681(41

Regarding the information above concerning the

alleged overhearing of discussions concerning "tapes," by

alleged DEA employees, Gibson advised this information

was furnished to him by Mr. Steve Van Cleave, a personal

friend of Gibson's and a private investigator from

Atlanta, Georgia.

Van Cleave told Gibson that he

visited SCI offices on a recent unrecalled date. Van Cleave

was told by Werbell that Van Cleave could not stay in the

offices at that time as Werbell was consulting with a

client.

Van Cleave told Gibson he then went to the twelfth

floor entryway to SCI offices, the space sub-leased by

That Van it bite the an,

Conein, and overheard a conversation through the door CO (u)

- 2 -

SECREL

HH 50953 DooId: 32327257 Page 2

---

