# 124-10185-10098_9

## Page 1

124-10185-10098

In Repls, Plouse Refer lo

rile No.

UNIT

SECRIF

STATES DEPARTMENT OF 1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ICE

MASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

February 7, 1956

JFK (1)(B)

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGANCY

OPERATIONS IN THE UNITA STATES

DIACORMATION CONTATIO

HEREIS IS UNIT,

:: 159 EXCA

FIERE SNUCA 055410157S.

117-01

CLASSIFIED BYSP 2Mm /11G

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_/

(1) CIA will not initiate an investigation of any

foreign official in the United States without the concurienco

and cooicination of the IDI.

In this context, the ter

"investigation" means systematic and direct inquiries or

procedures (such as physical or technical surveillances

or neighborhood inquiries) aiming at developing. information

concerning an individual's activities or background;

normally made by CIA agents in discharging their cover

functions. (S)

(2)

CIA will serk concurrence and coordination of

the FBI before approaching for recruitnent any foreign

sificial or communist-bloc visitor in the United States.

The IBI will concur and coordinate if the proposed action

for want cent and co

does not conflict with any operation, current or plannca,

including active investigation of the FBI. (S)

CIA will advise the FBI prior to any planned

meeting between a CIA asset and a toreign official. or

comnunist-bloc visitor of known or presumed interest to

the FBI (this would include all communist-bloc officials

and visitors) for purposes of

assessment and social

developnent, (S)

(4) Clandestine CIA staff operatives,

and foreign agents of CIA recruited

abrond who come to the United States will be identified to

the FBI by name or appropriate description depending on

the national security interest involved. ›

(5)

Pursuant to paragraph & above, when a CIA

agent

arrives in the United States for a visit or for ab (s)

SECRET

GILQU

Excluded

from autonatic

downgracing and

declacsii2faz10n

SECRET

---

## Page 2

JFK()(B)

SECRET

Central Intelligence Agency

Operations In the United States

assignmont, the Burenu will be advised and the two agencies

will confer regarding the handling of the agent in the

United States.

It is recognized thai cach cuse will have

its individual peculiarities. The governing principle will

be positive intelligence interest as weighed against

internal security factors.

CIA will continue its

contractual relationshin for the purpose of handling

the trainings

the procurement of positive foreign

intelligence,

the fulfillment of CIA conmitnents to

the agent, and the preparation of the agent for his

next assignment abroad. (s)

(6) In those cases there CIA will be handling its.

agent in the United Stales,

CIA wil]. sorvice IBI security

or counterintelligence

requirements and will provide the

FBI all agent information bearing on counterintelligence

or internal security matters, including the scope and

nature of the agent's access

to infornation and the

identities of the agent's significant contacts, particularly

in the communist-bloc field.

In such cases where CIA

servicing has been inadequate to FBI internal security

interests, the FBI will have direct access to the agent. (5)

JFK (IS(B)

SECRET

---

