# 124-90138-10034

## Page 1

124-90138-10034|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90138-10034

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-5-8515

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 07/06/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

NAME CHECKS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32337765

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONT

5668

25)

LASS

CER.

- Mr. Myers

Tolson

Parsons

(Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

ivans.

Malone -

Rosen

[avel.

(rotter

•C. Sullivan

ele. Room

tram

"idy

ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED-

HERE PS GNGLASS CATED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

July 6, 1961

Decissny on:

OADR

SUE SID/GE

5/14/95-578

ELAINE ROSALIE/GIORNO

Born:

Septenier 21 1843

Brooklyn,

New York

MAILED

JUL 1 0 1961

NAME CHECK

No investigation pertinent to your inquiry has been

54014586-1498 (JFK)

conducted

by the fBI concerning the captioned individual.

however,

the files of this Bureau contain the following

information which may possibly relate to the father of the

subject or

your

nane

ane check request.

A confidential informant who has furnished reliable

BRACKETS

infornation in the past advised that on Novenber 8, 1960,

5-11-98

Paul Giorno was

in contact wich Jose Moleon at which time

invited Moleon to his home for dinner on Novenher 13

1960.

According to the

inforuant Moleon, Military and Air Attache,

Embassy of Cuba,

Washington,

Do so, tentatively accepted the

Invitation but surrested that Giorno come

IANFORMATION

кр

o She Enbassy to

mIscuss It further on Novenber 9, 1960.(%

CIA

Another

confidential informant who has

furnished

rellable informacion in the past advised chat an

driving

2 notor

individual

vehiche registered to laus fiormo

3247 Terrace Drive,

Silver Hill

naryland,

visited

Embassy, Washington, D, to, on Novenber , 1900. 0

the chuang

DECLASS: =

RELEASE

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

(4)

Files of this Bureau

further reveal that a complaint

made by one nichae."

Parise, 4623 Davis Avenue,

Suitland,

on Decembers,

1955,

concerning his nephew

In business.

Parise

advised that about three months prior to his complaint he had

received an anonyuous phone call at his hone which he definitely

knew was the voice of Giorio.

The caller stated that he ras

family aml then

Parise advised. thor sinco that time he had

been plagied

with annoying calls whercon nd paone i rang

and when it was

answered there was no one at toe other end. It was farises

opinion that-

105-93409

lorno vas responsible anache alis

5/5

ORIG AND

Request Received:

ТО CIA 61

NOTE. Memo classified confidential in,

IWM: ems

Ela ine

(4)

This document cow

Name check form rev father as Paul Giorno, 3247 Terrace

dins neither recommendations for conclusions, of the FBI. It is the property of

the FBI, and is loaned to your

Ityand its contênts are

This is in answer to your request for a check of Blarenot to be distributed outside your

Drive, Silver Hill, Suitland,

i, sureland, no. E

HW 50953

DocId: 32337765

Page 2

---

