# 124-10290-10104

## Page 1

124-10290-10104

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/16/201

Agency Information

. AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10290-10104

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-77667-21, NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

SAC, MM

TITLE :

DATE :

08/07/1964

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS:

CC, SECADES, ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y, DEFECT, BKG, MIL,

CUBAN EXILE, ASSOC, CONSPR, PLANS TO ASSA CASTRO,

FIDEL A/O CUBAN LEADERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

19.1

NH 50953

14

DocId: 32306464

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUDAN LEADERS

the United States would be ready to

give

• this assistance ac

• moment's notice as tho plotters may

be able to hold che

Coverment for onty a day or cuo.

de was

in Spain for about

trenty hours during his

recent trip

and in that country he

esiles

and

contacted other cuban

Jearned that a man named

cho is in

charge or the Central

Intelligonce Agency

Neice in Medrid,

is aware of this plot to a certain degree. the Cuban old

do not trust

Dad allege he has boen compronioed

a Cuban girl nicknanod #tota;" nho nas cent fros Havana

Spain for the

specific parpose of getting in contact with

Ile requested to be put in contact with a reprosentative.

of the Central Intelligenco Agoncy, who wae thoroughly faniliar

with the Cuban situation and knowledgeable concorning the

individuale involved in the piot. b

Above information contained in New York teletype

dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Layinosa Hernandez,

Neutrality Matters; Internal Security - Cuba.".

Bureau files indicate Espinosa in 1963 was involved

in a plan to bomb Cuba.

Our investigation of this plot, which

was not a Central Intelligence Agency operation, resulted in

seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be

used in making bombs.

Bureau files indicate Cubela has been previously

contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly

with a view towards taking some action against Cuban leaders.

antinet me a Boston

Almeida Bosque,may be identical with person serving

Deputy Minister of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces

Original of this memorandum being sent to Attorney.

General (copy to Deputy Attorney General) by cover letter.

Xerox copy being furnished to White House and Director, Central

SECRET

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THREE

50953 DocId: 32306464 Page 2

---

