# 124-10179-10250

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10179-10250

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-116395-1382

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HANDLEY

TO:

ROSEN

TITLE :

DATE: 11/24/1963

PAGES: 196

SUBJECTS :

CC, JFK, ASSA, RESULTS OF MED RPT, LHO, JR, ALLEGED

ASSOC, CONSPR, FPCC, INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/02/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS: INC ABSTRACT, 2 ADMIN PAGES, 50 FBI MEMO, 9 TTY, 5 A/T, 3 LHM, 2 FBI LTR, 10 NEWS

ARTIC, 4 CABLEGRAMS, TRANSCRIPT, R/S, EBF

v9.1

---

## Page 2

5010-106

MAY 1862 EDITION

OSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

'UNITẾD STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

MR. W. C. SULLIVAN

DATE:

FROM

D. J. BRENNAN, JR./

Movani e

Casper

allahan

Conrad

DeL oach V

Evans

November 26, 1963

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

(l Tave.

UMBRAN

rotter

Ie. Room.

ndy

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD

(JFK)

INTERNAL SECURITY R

DECI

SEEN CY. 56685L0/6C

ON 25/99. PERNSA STR: ATP. 7/27198

on November 26, 1963, Mr. A. H. Young,

Group B (Cuban) of National Security Agency (NSA), contacted

Liaison Agent to advise that NSA is undertaking a

project-to

determine whether recent radio traffic between Cuba and the u.s.

may possibly contain any information of significance in captioned

case, particularly any, information which might indicate a

connection between the Cuban Government and Oswald's assassination

UPGRADED

of President Kennedye

ON 2/2/77

Young

stated

that NSA has in their files copies of

numerous radio messages between the U.S. and Cuba obtained

through NSA monitoring activities; that this traffic, which

Let 1o8 averages approximately 1,000 messages per day, is much too

voluminous for an examination of each message; and that through

"a mechanical computer process,

they intend to select for further

examination any message sent during the past three months which

might contain the name of Oswald.

They also desire to inglude,

in this computer project a selection of messages containing the

names of any close associates of Oswald, particularly in

, the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee, as well as any significant

addresses which may have been found among Oswald's effects.

Young asked whether we could review the results of our st

investigations of Oswald and furnish NSA a list of his möre

significant contacts as well as addresses found in his effects

After checking with the Espionage Section, Liaison u

furnished Young the full name of subject's wife and the alias,

D:

Lowman

Hidell, which he used in purchasing the murder weapon by mail.

Fort Bronge

advised that our investigation in this case is still

under way, that it is very extensive, and that upon compfetion

6. Mu

we we review the results for the purpose of determining

whether there are additional logical names or addresses

pertinent to the NSA project. Young advised that they will

immediately-make the first run on this project with the names

3555÷9

Lian un

INTD N3 ap Mr. Belmont

1-Mr. Rosen

Sullivan

1-Mr• Branigan

Mr. Turner

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFI

SCHEDURE OF EXECUTIV

EXEMPTION CATEGORY

: 2 43

AUTOMAHCALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

5

HANDLE VIA COMINTI

ChANNELS, ONLY

---

