# 124-10278-10401

## Page 1

124-10278-10401

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10278-10401

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-82

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

12/16/1963

' PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, MEMBERS, OBA, FINANCES, FLIGHTS, RAID, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1A; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

-

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC S/S, MEMO, LHM

49.1

HY 50953

17

DocId: 32301566

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SIL X3

SECRET

REC 33

(NI) 97-4474

1 - Liaison

1 - Nasca

Date:

December 18, 1963

A1t INRONATTON O

HARE T730

WELERIS SIONAI OR

To:

Director

Bureau of Intelligence and ReseeTAHiAS NO OBJECTION TO

Department of State

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE DE CIA INTORMATION

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEpT the BrAcke

Subject: MOVINTENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION

ткн 2-6-98

REVO LUCIONARIO

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

2-14-98

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

CLASSIFIED BY 56108 SED /ASR

DECLASSIENS

Reference is made to our letter

dated December 17,

1962, with enclosure.

Attached is the original of a memorandum dated

December, 18, 1963. A copy of this memorandun is attached

for each of the other recipients.

This will confirm Information opally furnished to

BY COURIER SVO

18 DEC1 9

COMM - FBI

Mc. ES E. Frisa, Department of StateRMr.

Central Intelligence Agency,. Lester Johnson,

Bureau of (S

Customs; Mr. James 1. Hurphy, Federal Avlation Agency; and

Mp. John H. Davitt, Internal Security Division, Department

of Justice, on December 16, 1963, by Mr. A. J. Decker of

this Bureau 0240s

ЧЕСТО ВЕТНОЙ!

\ ENCLOSURE

We are endeavoring to obtain additional information

and

ertisenti Aita will be made available to the recipients.

Tolson

Enclosure

2/21/15

Belmont:

12 MAS

Mohir

Gasper:

1 - Director (Enclosure)

NEGO

Callahan

Conrad

Central Intelligence Agency

Deloach. -

Evans:

Gale

Hosen

Attention:

Deputy Director, Plans

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -e

PHN:

Holmes

JAIN

Gondy

MAIL FOOM L

1964

TELETYPE UNIT L

pAm

SECRETIN

V MAiCA

HW 50953

DocId: 32301566

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

1 - Liaison

1 - Nasca

(NI) 97-4474

December 18, 1963

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLED

EXCEPT ATRED SHOWN

OTHER NEC

2/18/95 SP6 MAC SAT

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

Classified by 166Th GCL

Declassify on: DADR OFK)

Previous information has indicated that the

captioned anti-Castro organization is planning to carry out

a bombing raid over Cuba fron Bimini in the Bahama Islands.

The airplane scheduled to be used in the raid reportedly is

Located at the Broward International Airport, Fort Leuderdale,

Florida.

On December 14, 1963, our source in this matter who has

furnished reliable information in the past advised that

William Johnson, a United States citizen, pilot and businessman

who has previously been involved in anti-Castro activities,

received $450 from the treasurer of the captioned organization

for obtaining the airplane to be used in this operation.

Tolson:

Belmonti

Mohi

Casper

Callah an

Conrad:

DeLoach:

Evans

Gale:

Hosen:

Sullivan:

Tavel

Trottet

Tole. Room

Holines A

Sandy

On December 16, 1963, our source advised that the

airplane to be used on the bombing raid is an Aero Commander,

number N2624B, which is located at Broward International Airport

and which is the property of

who operates an

aviation company at the airport.

_is scheduled to fly the

airplane from Fort Lauderdale to Bimini. Practice flights were

scheduled to be made on December 16 and 17, 1963, and

consideration was being given to having the airplane fly over

Bimini during the December 17, 1963, flight.

Our source further advised that the captioned

organization intends to utilize two boats in this operation.

A large boat piloted by a Cuban captain will depart from the

Miani, Florida, area without contraband on an ostensible fishing

trip on the evening of the scheduled raid. This boat will

rendezvous at sea with a smaller fast boat carrying the

VHN :klw

(16)

SECRET!

tow

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOTE PAGE THO

97-4474-82

ENCLOSURE

H7 50953

DoeId: 32301566

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

13ЛОSО

denolition bombs which will have departed fron the Homestead,

Florida, area. The bombs will be loaded on the bigger boat

which will then proceed to the airport at Bimini. Our source

belteves that a small farm owned by Laredo Rodriguez, treasurer

of the captioned organization, located in the area of Homestead

Bay Front Park, on or near a canal, will be utilized in the plans

for the deperture of the small boat:

According to information obtained by our source, the

bombing expert who will participate in this operation is one

Orlando Ramirez. Avallable Information indicates that thés

Individual is possibly Identicel with Daniel Orlando Ramirez Denis

who has served as a bombing expert on one or more raids previously

conducted by the captioned organization.

Orlando Bosch Avila, head of the captioned organization,

has indicated he desires that

this operation take place during

the current week.

Nofe mation. 5

authorities were advised of the above

Original to State, copies to CIA, Army, Navy, Air Force,

DIA, Customs, INS, FAA, Coast Guaid, Yeagley. Coples separately

being furnished John Crimmins, Coordinator Cuban Affairs,

Department of State, by Courier Service and

$)

099032

SECRET

97-4474-82

038-30397

HW 50959 DooId: 32301566

Page 4

---

## Page 5

4-22 (Rev: 1-32-60)

Federal Buredu of Inve

Recorde anch

rufer

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

Return to

Тал

63PB

Supervisor

Type of References Requested:

•Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsübversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

ain

_ References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Locality

of

HASO

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Seel

Buildup

] Variations

Subject

Bittete a Place Kudect

Address -

Bat ano

Localities

- Date -

Searcher

_ Initials

Prod.

I

FILE: NUMBER

2- 1131

Arm-

2 -

10772m

bien

I

67 543248- 2th

97-

C13726-27 mmbe

Bn)

2-1693-96

47-15517 3 14

97-4623-158,166mm

charles Sanitag (Ba

N9+97-4196-47-27p5

*file changed out

ALL

INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATEN IS UNGLASSEE

DATE

BYSE FABEL

2/18/98

-POMALIGATURI

HN 50953 DocId: 32301566

Page 5

3 COUB

---

## Page 6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

(FEBERAL BUREAU DE INVESTIGATICH

U. S. DEPARAMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 1 G 1963

TELETYPE

#r. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohe

vir. Casper.

"Ir. Callahan

Mr. Goared

? *in Davel

ruther:

21845 Sр8MH/G470

Classified bystonA

Declassify on: OADR 9/07/83

URGENT

FROM

12-16-63 3-36

PM EST

SHR

DIRECTOR, FBI

197-44741

SAC, MIAMI 1105-28551

3 P

MOVIMIENTO INSUBRECTIONAL DE RECUPERACTION REVOLUCIONARIO,

IS DASH CUBA•

RE MIAMI TEL, DEC. FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE.

ON EVENING DEC. FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, EVELIO ALPIZAR PEREZ

PAREN PROTECT END PAREN ADVISED THAT DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

INSTRUCTED ALPIZAR TO CONTACT LAREDO RODRIGUEZ, TREASURER OF

MIRR, WHICH IS HEADED BY BOSCH, AND THAT LAREDO WOULD FURNISH ALPIZAR

WITH FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS TO PAY WILLIAM JOHNSON FOR

OBTAINING AN AIRPLANE FOR THE SCHEDULED RAID. BOSCH ALSO ADVISED

ALPIZAR HE WOULD PAY FOR ALPIZARAS PRACTICE FLYING TIME

PREPARATORY THIS OPERATION®.

REC 33

97-447482

SUBSEQUENTLY, ON DEC. FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR OBTAINED

9 1964

FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS FROM LAREDO WHICH HE PAID TO JOHNSON. :

THEREAFTER, ACCOMPAINIED BY JOHNSON AND RARENCENU END PAREN RAMO,

ALCHAN PILOT, ALPIZAR PROCEEDED TO BROWARD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

WHERE HE PRACTICED FLYING FOR ONE HOUR IN AERO COMMANDER N TWO. SIX

1.16%0

END

PAG

tape t MN!

12-16.2

Memo S1200

12 + 160-60

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

a ni na

SECRETI

HW 50953 DocId:32301566

Page

---

## Page 7

SECRET

PAGE TWO

TWO FOUR B, PROPERTY OF

WHO OPERATES AN AVIATION

COMPANY AT THE SAME FIELD

ALPIZAR WAS CONSIDERING RAMO AS HIS CO

DASH PILOT BUT RAMO NOT WNTERESTED IN THIS VENTURE.

ON DEC. SIXTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR ADVISED THAT HE AGAIN

ON DEC- FIFTEEN PRACTICED FLYING FOR ABOUT ONE HOUR WITH

IN THE SAME AERO COMMANDER PLANE, HE LEARNED THAT THIS IS THE PLANE

WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO BE USED ON THE BOMBING OPERATION AND THAT .

IS SCHEDULED TO FLY THE PLANE FROM FT. LAUDERDALE

TO BIMINI PREPARATORY TO THE BOMBING OPERATION. PROVIDING

WEATHER CONDITIONS PERMIT, ALPIZARM IS SCHEDULED TO AGAIN PRACTICE

WITH THIS PLANE ON AFTERNOON OF DEC. SIXTEEN AND SEVENTEEN. HE PLANS

TO FLY OVER BIMINI ON DECEMBER SEVENTEEN PROVIDING HE IS NOT

ACCOMPANIED BY

ALPIZAR HAS OVERHEARD DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN BOSCH, JOHNSON

AND LAREDO WHICH LEADS HIM TO BELIEVE THAT BOSCH INTENDS TO

UTILIZE TWO BOATS IN THIS OPERATION. A LARGE BOAT, PILOTED

END PAGE TWO

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId: 32301566

Page '7

---

## Page 8

PAGE THREE. .

SECRET

BY A A CUBAN CAPTAIN, WILL DEPART FROM MIAMI AREA, WITHOUT CONTRA-

BAND ON AN OSTENSIBLE FISHING TRIP DURING EARLY EVENING OF DATE OF

SCHEDULED RAID• THIS BOAT WILL RENDEZVOUS AT SEA WITH A SMALLER FAST

BOAT CARRYING THE DEMOLITION BOMBS WHICH WILL HAVE DEPARTED FROM THE

HOMESTEAD, FLA. AREA. THE BOMBS WILL BE LOADED ON THE BIG BOAT WHICH

WILL THEN PROCEED TO THE BIMINI AIRPORT AND PROCEED ACCORDING TO

PREVIOUS PLANS OUTLINED.

BOSCH HAS DISCLOSED ON TWO SEPARATE OCCASIONS THAT THE

BOMBING EXPERT TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS OPERATION IS ONE ORLANDO

OR RAMIREZ. PREVIOUS INVESTIGATION BY U. S. CUSTOMS HAS

DISCLOSED THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL IN UNDOUBTEDLY IDENTICAL WITH

DANIEL ORLANDO RAMIREZ DENIS WHO SERVED AS A BOMBING EXPERT ON

ONE OR MORE PREVIOUS RAIDS CONDUCTED BY MIRR. ALPIZAR ALSO

BELIEVED THAT A SMALL FARM OWNED BY LAREDO RODRIGUEZ IN THE AREA

OF HOMESTEAD BAY FRONT PARK, ON OR NEAR A CANAL, WILL BE UTILIZED

IN PLANS FOR DEPARTURE OF THE SMALL BOAT.

ALPIZAR IS STILL ATTEMPTING TO DISCREETLY ASCERTAIN MORE

INFO RE THE IDENTITY OF THE BOATS AND OTHER PERSONNEL INVOLVED.

BOSCH HAS INDICATED HE IS DESIROUS THIS OPERATION TAKING PLACE

DURING THE CURRENT WEEK•

U. S. CUSTOMS AND OTHER INTERESTED AGENCIES IN MIAMI HAVE

BEEN ORALLY ADVISED•

LETTERHEAD MEMO SUITABLE FOR PISSEMINATION FOLLOWS•

MIAMI WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED ALL PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS•

CORR PAGE @O LINE J WORD

O SHD BE INTERESTE

END AND ACK PLS

4-09 PM OK FBI WA MSL TKS

SECRET

TU AND DISC

CoM. Masca y Sallarion

NW 50953 DocId: 32301566. Page

i 35nd

---

## Page 9

PEGERAL BUREAT EF URUESTIGATION

V. S. CEPAITMENT OF JUSTICE

COLMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 1 6 1963 g

TELETYPE

Fi Molcal

"sio

Vit®

Mr.

Wax.

Vir.

Ts'.

Mis

Delines a

Craad.

Cha to can

fic.

1E-

Die, Trait!

Tele. Sc....

Wues Mora

In peter

2256

URGENT

12-16-63 3+36

PM

EST

SHA

DIRECTOR, FBI 197-4474/

FROM

SAC, MIAMI /105-28550

3 P

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECTIONAL DE RECUPERACTION REVOLUCIONARIO,

IS DASH

CUBA+

RE MIAMY TEL, DEC, FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE®

ON EVENING DEC. TOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, EVELLO ALPIZAR PEREZ

PAREN PROTECT END PAREN ADVISED THAT DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

INSTRUCTED ALPIZAR TO CONTACT LAREDO RODRIGUEZ, TREASURER OF •

MIRR, WHICH IS HEADED BY BOSCH, AND THAT LAREDO WOULD FURNISH ALPIZAR

WITH FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS TO PAY BILLIAM JOHNSON FOR

OBTAINING AN AIRPLANE FOR THE SCHEDULED RAID, BOSCH ALSO ADVISED!,

ALPIZAR HE WOULD PAY FOR ALPIZAR/S PRACTICE FLYING TIME

PREPARATORY THIS OPERATION.

SUBSEQUENTLY, ON DEC, FOURTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR OBTAINED

FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS FROM LAREDO WHICH HE PAID TO JOHNSON.

THEREAFTER, ACCOMPAINIED BY JOHNSON AND PAREN FNU END PAREN RAMO,

A CUBAN PILOT, ALPIZAR, PROCEEDED TO BROWARD INTERNATIONAL, AIRPORT

WHERE HE PRACTICED FLYING FOR ONE HOUR IN AERO COMMANDER N TUO SIX

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE

SO& MACGAT (UFK

NY 50953 DocId: 32301566 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PAGE TWO

TWO FOUR B, PROPERTY OF

UNO OPERATES AN AVIATION

COMPANY AT THE SAME FIELD, ALPIZAR WAS CONSIDERING RAMO AS HIS CO

DASH PILOT BUT RAMO NOT UNTERESTED IN THIS VENTURE*

ON DEC, SIXTEEN, SIXTYTHREE, ALPIZAR ADVISED THAT HE AGAIN

ON DEC • FIFTEEN PRACTICED FLYING FOR ABOUT ONE HOUR VITH

IN THE SAME AERO COMMANDER PLANE, HE LEARNED THAT THIS IS THE PLANE

WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO BE USED ON THE BOMBING OPERATION AND THAT

I$ SCHEDULED TO FLY THE PLANE FROM FT. LAUDERDALE

TO BIMINI PREPARATORY TO THE FOMBING OPERATION, PROVIDING

WEATHER CONDITIONS PERMIT, ALPIZARM

IS SCHEDULED TO AGAIN PRACTICE

WITH THIS PLANE ON AFTERNOON OF DEC* SIXTEEN AND SEVENTEEN HE PLANS

TO FLY OVER BIMINI ON DECEMBER SEVENTEEN PROVIDING HE IS NOT

ACCOMPANIED BY

ALPIZAR HAS OVERHEARD DISCUSSIONS

BETWEEN BOSCH, JOHNSON

AND LAREDO WHICH LEADS HIM TO BELIEVE THAT BOSCH INTENDS TO

UTILIZE TVO BOATS IN THIS OPERATION, A LARGE BOAT, PILOTED

END PAGE TWO

NW 50953 DocId: 32301566:

Page 10:

---

## Page 11

: PACE THREE

"BY A A CURAN CAPTAIN,

WILL DEPART FROM MIANI AREA, WITHOUT CONTRA

BAND ON AN OSTENSIBLE FISHING TRIP DURING EARLY EVENING OF DATE OF

SCHEDULED RAIDA THIS BOAT WILL RENDEZVOUS AT SEA WITH A SMALLER FAST B

BOAT CARRYING THE DEMOLITION BOMBS WHICH WILL HAVE DEPARTED FROM THE

HOMESTEAD, FLA, AREA, THE BOMBS WILL BE LOADED ON THE BIG BOAT WHICH

WILL THEN PROCEED TO THE BIMINI AIRPORT AND PROCEED ACCORDING TO

PREVIOUS PLANS OUTLINED

BOSCH HAS DISCLOSED ON TUO SEPARATE OCCASIONS THAT THE

BOMBING EXPERT TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS OPERATION IS ONE ORLANDO

OR RAMIREZ, PREVIOUS INVESTIGATIÓN EY U. Se CUSTOMS HAS

DISCLOSED THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL IN UNDOUBTEDLY IDENTICAL WITH

DANIEL ORLANDO RAMIREZ DENIS UNO SERVED AS A BOMBING EXPERT ON

ONE OR MORE PREVIOUS RAIDS CONDUCTED BY MIRRA ALPIZAR ALSO

BELIEVED THAT A SMALL FARM OUNED BY LAREDO RODRIGUEZ IN THE AREA

OF HOMESTEAD EAY FRONT PARK, ON OR NEAR A CANAL, WILL BE UTILIZED

IN PLANS FOR DEPARTURE OF THE SMALL BOAT.

ALPIZAR IS STILL ATTEMPTING TO DISCREETLY ASCERTAIN MORE

INTO RE THE IDENTITY OF THE BOATS AND OTHER PERSONNEL INVOLVED

BOSCH HAS INDICATED HE IS DESIROUS THIS OPERATION TAKING PLACE

DURING THE CURRENT WEEK,

U, S• CUSTOMS AND OTHER INTERESTED AGENCIES IN MIAMI HAVE

BEEN ORALLY ADVISED

- LETTERHEAD MENO SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION FOLLOUS.

MIAMI WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED ALL. PERTÉNENT DEVELOPMENTS.

CORR PAGE 2 A LINE WORD

END AND ACK PLS

4=09 PM OK FBI WA MSL TKS

TU AND DISC

ORIG: NIR. BELMONT FOR DIRECTOR

CUE!

.1..1734

1150

NW 50953

DocId: 32301566

Page 11

---

