# 124-10180-10298

## Page 1

124-10180-10298

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10180-10298

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-93072-104

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEE. ROGER H.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 01/31/1964

PAGES: 21

SUBJECT: LIAISON WITH AMERICAN EMBASSY IN PA, INTV, GIBSON, RICARD

THOMAS, FPCC, LHO, ASSOC

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/22/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId:32174882

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-266 (Rev. 5r1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFIGNEW GORK

DATE

1/37/64

REPROCER IT. LEE

Sesh

mabYPEDe

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON aka

CHARACTER OF CASE

ASSANITIZE

JM 6/24/98

ALL INFORMATION CONTAMI

MEREIN IS LNCLASSIFPED

LACENT WHERE SHOWB

IS

* CUBA

RA

- CUBA

7-1394

Classified ty 5052

Locia

REFERENCE

JFR

New York report of SA JAMES A. DAY, 10/10/62.

(57K) 8/18/98

5668540/001

ADMINISTRATIVE

PTOLES

Frialien

•4

SLA

DATE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

A stop has been placed with INS so that

the Bureau may be advised upon subject's return.

All logical Informants having a knowledge of subject

have been alerted to advise immediately the NYO in

the event of subject's return to the us.

A copy of previous reports concerning subject

have been furnished to OSI.

On 1/3/63, OSI advised

they had closed their case on subject and did not

retain an interest in this matter.!

SEN:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105230731104

Bureau (105-93072) (RM)

New

Copies de

York (105-42387)

HSC-A

re L. H. Oswald 156/9436/28/72

REC- 33

5 TED 8 1264

Ex: 102 =

C.

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd,

How Fwd.

By

Dissemination Racord of Attached Report

Copy to: C1A/State/Rx0-O68/

ONT/OST/ACSI /USIA

a pouting slip for inf

Data.

Notations

SECRETS-

remis from.

x: vi Declassilic

3016/78

NH 50953 DocId: 32174882

Page 2

---

## Page 3

j'""

SECRET

NY 105-42387

The sources mentioned for the documentation

of the Liberation Committee for Africa are the

York Times" issue of 3/1/61 and PH 575.

(NY report

dated 4/21/61 - Bufile 105-98055 - Liberation

Committee for Africa.)

4

COVER PAGE

• Al -

SECREL

NH 50953

DoeId: 32174882

Page

3

---

## Page 4

NY 105-42387

SECRET

On 10/19/62,

the following letter was

received

at the

NYO:

"c/o Librairie Anglaise

42,

rue de Seine

Paris-VI, France

17 October 1962

"Mr. James Day

Federal Bureau of Investigation

201 East 69th Street

New York 21, N.Y.

"Dear Mr. Day:

"I can still be of use to you, even from

here, If you think it worthwhile.g/The Committee

could

shut down within a few days without any serious

difficulties, especially now that Lee has learned

he isn't going to get any money from our friends in

the Caribbean. Or as I said before, it could be

preserved and made harmless for use as a cover tor

an information-gathering agency Js,

"If I am no longer here, Tony will know

where to reach me.

"Best wishes,

RG"

It should be noted that a copy of this

letter was furnished to CIA s)

• the Bureau on 10/26/62.1

on 1/21/63, CIA advised that a reliable

source informed them

that he had approached ABDEKADER

CHANDERLI, Permanent Representative to the UN for

for an opinion of the subject. CHANDERLI

advised this source that subject was not someone the

source should get close to and commented

that subject

1s paid by the Cubans.

SECRET

COVER PAGE

= B -

WH 50953

DocId:32174882

Page 1

---

## Page 5

NY 105-42387

SECRET

on 12/24/63, Legat, Paris, advised that

subject was interviewed by Mr. JOHN G. GASSELI,

Acting

consul General, American Embassy, Paris,

on 12/9/53,

in connection with GIBSON's knowledge of LEt HARVeY

LOSWALD and his alleged activity in the FPCe.

deceased

-begat,

to them nade do

he futureS) They stated that an attemp

ay be madelto develop GIBSOI

as a source

of infor-

matIon for CIA. 7(3)

(S.)

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY

T-1

NY 2323-S

File Number Where Located

105-39139

NY

1-2

NY 3229-S

134-3722

_ NY T-3

NY 2917-S

NY I-4

NY. 3144-5

NY T-5

+ 3164-59181(4)

NY/ T-6

*CIA ZELU)

NY I-7

Legat,

Madrid

NY T-8

Legat,

Paris

NY

T-9

SE

763-S

134-664

134-5574

+234-563871 8814)

X(U)

20(4)

SE 134-854

=

SECRET

COVER PAGE

ITH

50953

DoeId: 32174882

Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 105-42387

Identity of Source

NY T-11

CG 6131-S

NY T-12

Legat,

Bonn

NH 50953

DoeId: 32174882

Paue

SECRET,

File Number Where Located

434(171)

CG 134-558

COVER PAGE

-1.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

F0-201 (Fev, 9-3-591

SECRET

UNTiED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECREL

Copy to:

Report of:

Dote:

Fiold Office Files A:

Title:

Character:

Synopals:

GI W02 NG OSJECTION TO

# AND/OR

TA BE GRAPA TION

J7M6/24198

ROGER H. LEE

7/31/64

105-42387

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

Office:

New York, New York

Bureau Flle #:

105-93072

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIN

HEREIN IS INCLASSIEA

EXCEPT WHERE SNOUT/

074609)

Source advised subject resided in Algiers

While residing

"Revolution Afridahe"

Sources advised subject moved from Algiers to

Lausanne,

Switzerland, In April, 1963, and presently

resides at 17 Escallers du Marche, Lausanne,

Switzerland, and is employed by the publication,

"Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution"

Metropole, Lausanne, switzerland.

Summary of

activities

C

7-13-94

Declamnif ar

JFK)

nite

JJP/bei

714/28

(16)

(FK)

8/18/98

SECRET

From intomat le

ng and

acct

APPROPRISE AERICIES

TrICES

CUTING

CAP (5)d!

Gasification

DATE WILL

61T16/m

This document contans neither recommendations not conclusions of the FBl. It le the property of the FBl and la loaned to

Your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

NW 50953 DocId:32174882 Page

---

## Page 8

- -

..

NY 105-42387

SECRET

membeR of FaiR Play FoR Cuba CommiHee

On October 30, 1962,

NY T-5 advised that

a meeting of the FPCC was held on October 29, 1962,

Mit,

at 74 Fifth Avenue, New York City. At this meeting,

STEVE SELTZER, Treasurer of the FPCC, stated

that the

New York Chapter of the FPCC had been inactive during

the previous year but that the inactivity had been

caused by a person who has since left the United

tates and was residine in Algeria

hat SELizER was referring to RICHARD GIBsOnstated

4

NY T-5 advised on November 13, 1962, that

a meeting of the FPCC was held at 37a St. Marks

Place, New York City, on

November 8, 1962. During

this meeting the source overheard a conversation

in which it was

stated that RICHARD GISSON waS

Ilving in Rome, Italy, in the company of a woman

other than his

wife.

It was also stated that

GIBSON's wife and their two children had departed

the United States aboard a Yugoslav freighter

destined for Europe.

on January 2, 1963, NY I-5 advised that on

December 29, 1962, he had obtained a memorandum

from free headquarters, 19y Broadway, New York City,

stating that VINCENT TED LEE iS hereby appointed

Office Manager of the Free yuring the absence oi

RICHARD GIBSON.

This memorandum was signed by

RICHARD GIBSON.

On January 2, 1963, NY I-S, another

government agency which conducts security type

investigations,

advised that subject was the

subject of a newspaper article in the Front

Liberation Nationale

(FLN) newspaper,

"Al Chaab"

NY I-6 also advised that information was received

that subject, in the past, attempted to establish

an FPCC Chapter for Algeria.

4)

On December 12,

1962, NY I-T advised that

an investigation had been initiated in Tangier

regarding subject and his

associates.

This Investi

gation was being conducted by the Internal Security

Branch of

the Spanish High General Staff.

* V)

SECRET

NH

50953

DocId: 32174882

Page 8

---

## Page 9

• •

NY 105-42387

SECRET

On January 9, 1953, NY I-T advised that

the Spanish High General Staff reported that they

had received no information regarding the subject.

as a result of their Investigation.

•On Januember

1963, NY T-5 advised that

n.y

DANIEL WATTS, Head of the liberation _Committee for

received a letter from RICHARD GIESON, who

Was in Algeria. SwATTS told the source that GIBSON (8) 4)

was presently editing "Revolution Africane"

', an

official publication of the Algerian Government.

WATTS stated that GIBSON no longer had any connection

with FPCC and wanted nothing further to do with

this organization.

A characterization of the Liberation

Committee for Africa is contained

In the Appendix of this report.

On January 16, 1963, NY T-6 advised that

a reliable source in Algiers

reported that the

subject was to become a member of the editorial

staff of

Africane" new weekly magazine,

"Ia Revolution

to be published in Algiers.

The source

stated that the magazine was to be sponsored by the

Algerian Bureau Politique.

The source stated that

Revolution Africane"

would follow the format

of "Jeune

Afrique"

would be "more to the left.

a weekly Tunisian paper, but

On January 28, 1963,

NY

T-5 advised that

meeting of the FPCC was held at 799 Broadway,

New York City, on January 18, 1963.

At this meeting,

the source learned that RICHARD GIBSON had recently

written to an FPCC member.

GIBSON

stated that he was organizing a newspaper,

In this letters "revolution

Africane"

, and that GIBSON was interested

in getting

individuals he had worked with previously to work with

his staff. In this letter, GIBSON stated that his

wife and two children

were

residing with him in

Algiers.

SECRET

(u)

- 4 -

HH

50953

DocId: 32174882

Page

---

## Page 10

SECREL

NY 105-42387

On September 10, 1963, NY T-o advised that

the following information had been received trom ar

official Swiss source:

-3)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON, a United States

citizen, born May 13, 1931, in Los Angeles, occupation

journalist and translator, arrived in Lausanne, Switzer-

land,

from Algiers in late April, 1963, and has

resided there ever since.

GIBSON, who holds United

States passport B-131994, issued in Washington on

January 25, 1961, 1s married to JOY MARJORIE GIRSON

nee /KAYE,

a journalist

and British subject who

hölds British passport c 156546.

0(2)

(6)

GIBSON came to the attention of the official

Swiss source recently through his association with

and editor-secretary

at 10-11 Metropole, Lausanne.

ANDERSSON has been

known to

have had,

for the past ten years, numerous

contacts in international leftist circles of all

shades, including FLN-Algerians, Congolese, Angolese,

other

African politicians, Spanish emigrees, French

"refractaires anti-colonialistes"

, etc.

Despite all the aforementioned contacts,

ANDERSSON cannot be definitely labeled as a Communist

and is viewed with some reserve by. the Swiss Communist;

Party (PdA) prominency.

More recently, ANDERSSON

came to special notice for his close contacts with

China

SwiTzeRlandLAG HAIN, the Cultural Attache.

the CHICOM Embassy In Switzerland, particularly with

In April, 1963, 1t

was learned that ANDERSSON published

a luxury-edition

of a brochure, entitled "Leninisme et Revisionnisme

Moderne" on CHICOM orders.

This brochure raised

many unfavorable reactions in PdA circles.

Three

thousand copies of this borchure are reported to have

been shipped to china. (3)(4)

- 8-

SECRET

NH

50953

DocId:32174862 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECREA

NY 105-42387

member of

for cultural Relations with Foreign Countries stayed

When Vice President LeVeruN of the Committee china

in Switzerland in April, 1963, he reportealy met

ANDERSSON and placed more orders for ANDERSSON to

publish Chinese Communist brochures supporting the

CHICON line in the present Sino-Soviet ideological

controversy. (NU)

ANDERSSON 1s

the distributor for Switzerland

of the monthly review

"Revolution Africaine" which is

published in Paris.

RICHARD GIBSON and his wife are

employed ay ANDERSSON (i.e. for the Paris publishing

firm)

and they are responsible for translation, proof-

reading, etc. of the English-language edition of

"African

¡ Revolution" which 1s printed in Iausanne. (50(4)

On October 11, 1963, NY I-12 advised

that

the following information had

been obtained from

a

confidential source of known reliability:

The publication "African Revolution" was

* (4)

created by the Algerian Front of National Liberation.

Its English language edition 1s published in Switzer

There have been several changes in the

composition and polley of "African Revolution" decently.

Following a disagreement with BEN BELIA, JACQUES

CAMILLE VERGES, the editor of the publication,

national who was born March 5*1925.

editor was taken by MOHAMEDYHARBI,

former Secretary

General of the Algerian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

the editorial policy has Alberia

Since HARBI became edito 3, issue of "African Revolu-

changed and the

Indicated

that the journal is now closely

reflecting BEN BELLA's policy and attempting to

promote a more Algerian image. (5)

SECRET

- 9.

NH 50953

DocId: 32174862

Page 11

---

## Page 12

NY 105-42387

SECRET

Although VERGES 1s no longer connected

with the Algerian venture, he continues to publish

the English digest of "African Revolution" from

Switzerland.

retitled

Lausanne, africa, Latin America,

The July, 1963, issue was

Asia Revolution"

The phrase

"the

third world"

, which is now in vogue

among VERGES 's group to describe the underveloped

nations of Africa, South America and Asia, Indicates

the scope of the magazine in its new form.

The

source described this publication with which viroes

is presently connected as

pro-Communist G)

Iwo members of the Lausanne office of the

"African Revolution" have remained loyal to VERGES

after he was replaced by HARBI..

They are FREDY GILBERT

NILS ANDERSSON, a Swedish national who was born on

February 14, 1933, in Lausanne, and RICHARD THOMAS

GIBSON,

1931, In Los Angeles

a united states citizen who was bork May 13,

ANDERSSON apparently heads the office of

the Lausanne edition of "African Revolution" with

offices at 10-11 Metropole, Lausanne.

He is also

editor-secretary of "Societe Cooperative Clartee

Editions.

GIBSON has United States Passport number

3-131994 which was issued at washington, b.

Januaxy 25, 1961.

HIs wIfe Is JOY MARJORIE GIBSON

neeKKAYE,

She is a British subject,

1sh nonE noland)

C156546, and is also a journalist. She resides in

Lausanne at Il Escallers du Marche, where sne

Superbarrived from Algeria in late April, 1963 (this is

4

presumably the residence of her husband, RiCHARD

GIBSON)

Mars.

- 9ạ -

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32174882

Page 12

---

## Page 13

NY 105-42387

SECRET

According to the source, VERGES has been

denied permission to enter Switzerland. The case

against ANDERSSON is still pending (probably

relating to whether or not he will be allowed to

remain in switzerland).

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON has

been refused a Swiss resident's permit and has been

ordered to depart from Switzerland before December

1963(0)

On January 14, 1964, NY I-2 and NY 1-5

were contacted,

and they advised they

had no recent

information concerning the subject.

4

= 9b -

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32174882

Page

13

---

