124-90094-10037)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/21/2018

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90094-10037
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-147035-3
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 12/20/1965
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
JOAQUIN GODOY Y SOLIS
REINALDO PADRON QUINTANA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact i
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: — 10/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: | MEMO

\ v9.1

ae 50953 Doclda:32330947 Page 1


‘OPTIONAL FORM NOt 10

5 7 - :
/
is
me Director, FBI DATE: .
iva : CONFIDENTIAL
FR sac, Miami (105- *9698) (Cc)
oe al Gell
| SBEET: CHANGED a
133 y EEE Aono lwcana; selassify
5S .— Is - Cuba.
‘ Ps >
i ze ee (00: MM) - Restessiey ni t
" Le ai
mE SESt The title of this case is changed to includ J asf
an ay he complete name of the subject, as reflected herein, bes S *
u = By apreviousiy iat as Reinaldo Padro# acct =p bY Se CL ia \
42 o> eBu airtel, 11/5/65. A
GEO SX DECLASSIFY ON. 2
ac x Enclosed are twelve copies of an LHM, =
<= captioned as above,

Copies are furnished locally to INS;—CIA;“G-

2.5
McPherson, Georgia; Coordinator of Cuban “Affairs s.
S. Coast Guard; USA FAD, Ojus
ik “Spe rida; Secret Service; U. S. Customs (3); i-Miami ,. 1-Reg-
4 de II, 1- as West; U. S. Border Patrol; QNI; =)

“This LHM is classified Confidential, inasmuch
as it contains information so classified by CIA.

mt T-1 ise OIA report #CSDB-312/02458-65, dated
October 14, 1965, and‘ 96 (Uy) o #CSDB-312/02492-65, dated

Gctober 20, 1965. Teed |

i A copy of @e ma lee is being furnished
. the New York Office for in; mation, inasmuch as JOSE MA

2 OLEA TRINIDAD permanently y a in that area. It is, to}

5 (3)- Bureau (eneis 12S?

\ (1 = 109-584) a fe.

Si _ = New York (Info) (Encls.-1) (RM) Ox [E702.5~
=, Mba? (1005-10698) / ede

oP (1 - 105-10278)

ese emma meee

Ths ee 6IFBHI3N NW ; 4
. ont ; eeeEnoanese", u 3 DEC 21 1965,
#4 ESB ent Seg ets pee :
3 |e woes x zsh or, 59, 89 ol bate | eR ‘
/ Copy ‘eons, ite RROTE Nee i ers

\ pene i rsPoans [Seow EE Seuvice WW

ip for info, Lape LIME? Seep eee™
pode Helin wantr VD J fngs Be are os

, wer
GA, eed ae
: JAN 4~ ~ BOB». aa Bonds iy

fy sebeaderaseebeecosestiae

HW 50953 DocId:32330947 Page 2


@

et

oo CONFIDENTIAL

noted GLEA advised,he is not now, and has never been,
employed by th¢e.U. §.Government in any capacity. He in-
dicated he has been previously employed by the Government
of Cuba, as reflected in the enclosed LEM: ‘He related

he has, from time to time, furnished information which

he considered to be of value to the U. S. Immigration
Service, U. S. Secret Service, U. S. Customs Agency,

and the FBI in New York City. OLEA is referred to in
New York airtel dated September 30, 1965, (NY File 15—
36970) (MM File 15-4762). He further advised that approx—
imately ten months-ago he received $100.00 from the U. S.
Secret Service in. connection with an investigation involv-
ing the sale’ of gold,

It is to be noted that on November 22, 1965,

USTIN HORN, CIA covert, Miami (protect), advised that
»f was of operational intefest
to CIA. Also, HORN stated that their records reflected
SERGIO SANCHEZ SUAREZ had formerly been connected with
the JURE, and had made various trips to the coast of A
Cuba. JURE may have been, at that time, of operational’
interest to a U. 8. Government Agency, Washington, D.
SERGIO SANCHEZ is identical with Bureau File 46-48640.

. In view of the fact that there are no concrete
plans to possibly attempt to assassinate FIDEL CASTRO, no
further investigation is being conducted in this matter.

ys _It_is further noted during the interview with

“Indicated that he was closely associated with another U.

Gover, cy whose identity he had been told not to re-
yeni Gn btated he had furnished all information regard-

ing this matter, as well as any other information coming to

his attention which would be of interest to the U. S. Govern-

ment, to this other unnamed U. S. agency further

advised he had been instructed not to furnIsh ai information
to any U. S. Government agency. He explained the FBI had not

been specifically mentioned, but before furnishing any addi-
tional information in connection with instant matter, he
desired to contact the. unnamed agency and get their approval.

CONFIDENTIALY =.

_72-

a Gogda-lgszd

lon November 30, 1965, i)

HW 50953 DocId:32330947 Page 3



MM = 105-10698'

He reiterated all in his possession

es

fp
had been furnished to this unnamed agency. A, above,
CIA advised it had an operational interest eee

\ AOPd~ KOZ

ow 50953 Doclda:32330947 Page 4

ae EE Rammer aSEEE

esptarressaseescuidoaseiian ecaeeeaaaaaaeeeeeeeeigree
