124-10369-10038)

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/15/201
Identification Form

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE:
‘PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION =
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

i
i
| v9.
| HW 50953 DocId:32319404

Agency Information

FBI
124-10369-10038

HQ

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-B9

Document Information

FBI
SIZOO,
SULLIVAN

06/19/1967
325

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD
VOLUME XV

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 4

Redact

03/05/1999

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA =

INC FOLDER, COVER PAGE, MEMO, A/T, TTY, NOTES, NEWS ARTICLES, LHM, FD-302,
LET, INSERT, LIST, S/S, EXHIBIT

27
Page 1


tir. 8. C, Sullivan April 22, 1967
i = ie. C. BD. Delwach
B. C. Hoore i+ dr. W. €. @ikives

; = Be Be
ASSASSINATION OP on

PELSIDEN? JOHN PITZGURALD HMNEDY
BOVIAMER 28, 1963, DALWAS, TExas *

Gn 4/22/G? at 3:50 pom. Lepat, Mexico City, called
with regaré to crblegran he sent 4/21/67 in captioned matter.
Recab stated that newopaper in Mexico City reported arrival
of New Grieans District Attorney James Garrison in Mexico
and Legat's source in dexican Federal Security Police requested
any information indicating Garrison intended to investigate
ee matter im Mexico and reasons for Gurrisen's presence

a cy

Wher Legot calicd, he stated that newspapers are
pxeinting conflicting stories. He said some say Garrison is
aa Yexico while othere say he is in New Grlesns. Legat
requested to be udvised if our New Orleans Office could stato
that Garrison was actunliy in New Griezne which would solve
many problens since Legat is under terrific pressure from
bie cources. He sxequested te he telephonically adviced con
cerning thie matter. ._ -- : caries

Hew Orleans was telephonically contacted an¢ ve
wore advised that the news articles in Hew Griesas reported
gumors that, Garrison was in Mexico. However, this was denied
by Garrisons financial backer Willerd Robertson whe apparently
is in Aenpules, Mexico. ft wes further denied by Garrison's
ogfice. This information was furnished to the Legal attache
telophonically with instructions that he should be meticu~
lously careful te aveid being involved in any facete of the
Garrison investigation,

ACTION:
For information.
ROB/VRSteeg (5)

HW 50953 DocId:32319404 Page 2



‘l= Mr. Lenihan

“ | 4/17/67
Airtel

Tor SAC, Now Orleans (80-69)
From: Director, FBI (62-109080)

FITZGERALD EXMWEDE
DALLAS, TEXAB, 11/22/63
MIBCELLANZOUS ~ INFORMATION CONCERNING

Rourairtel 4/14/67 setting forth results of your
interview with former WO 1378-C. During such interview your
source furnished information he received from Bundy and he also
Piecing porpe oe regarding a contact he had with
Lynn eel,

You should immediately forward to the Bureau a
letterhead memorandum suitable for dizsenlaation setting forth
data you reported in your airtel of 4/14/67,

Your attention is directed to Bureau airtel to all
offices dated March 6, 1967, inatructing that any pertinent
information relating to the assassination of President Kennedy
is te be ted into a letterhead samorandua suitable
for dissemination and furnished to the Bureau by airtel the
some date it is received,

In the future, make certain that these instructions
are followed by your office,

2 Dallas (89-43)

REL: as
(5)

HW 50953 DocId:32319404 Page 3


- Mr. Lenihan

SAC, New York (88-75) 4/10/87
Director, Fei (109060)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT ALLINFORMATION CONTANED ~

HEREIN IS UNCLA:
JOHH FITZGERALD KENEEDY " ‘SSIFIED EXC
DALLAS, TEAS WHERE SHOWN OTHERMeS CET
11/22/63

SESCELLANKOUS = INFORMATION CONCERNING

Reurairtel in captioned matter which enclosed to
the bureau two copies of a letterhead menorandum dated
arch 22, 7, which set forth information received fron

[S¥ 5822-54/regarding the assaseination of the late Cs)
President Kennedy.

The Gareru hac discussed contents of your
letterhead memorandum with the Central Intelligence Agency
in accordance with current procedures for handling euch
inferuation and there is attached a copy of a letterhead
nemorandua which was prepared at Seat of Government which
a minor revisions in the memorandum prepared by your
offies.

The Dureau has also classified the enclosed
nonorgndum “Secret” on thekmcis that this information cane
fron(NY 5312-04] a highly sensitive source, and that 5)
unauthorized disclosure of this information could cause
serious damage to the internal security of this country.

for your added information, a copy of this
menorandus was disseminated by the Bureau to the Etate
Departuent, United States Secret Service and also to the

v Bepartment. of ‘Justice. 51193
- CLASSIFIED BY 9808 aale/oef”
a DECLASSIEY ON pCO
REL: as Cos km8/(cl Aohy FFE
(5)
NOTE: See memorandum Branigan to Sullivan dated 4/4/67 which

approved dissemination of this data to the Department,
Secret Service and State Department.

HW 50953 DocId:32319404 Page 4



Do pennnetdl.
i

SSS

He. #. €, Sulliv. TO April 11, 1967

: tos, Mr. C. BD. Deloach
R. E. Wiek
ir. W. C. Sullivan
R. E. Lenthan

W. R. Wanneii
NT
Gianll Ts for Benerers”

W. R. Wannall
SOHN EVANS, also known as Ae z Soiemon
forboar Attenborough _. Gee) shesio7
INFERNAL SECURITY - JAWAICA Cy aecirienpy Stey sed/¢ce

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X__G)

Subject, now in Jamaica and possibly mentally
deranged, claims to be planning revolution to overthrow
government of Jamaica with assistance of unidentified
United States “syndicate” and help from Communist Cuba.
We are initiating investigation into his activities while
he was in the United States, 1953-1966, for benefit of
Jamaican police, For information.

Intellicanre Aceney (e7as
advised by nat 6)
Bvans, @ > Up at sea in
small boat between Jamaica and Cuba, icst and out of fuel
and food, in September, 1986, He claimed to be in the
process of attempting to rendezvous with unidentified Cubans
with whom he planned to travel to Cuba to collect funds to
be used in the overthrow of the Jamaican Government. Such
funds were to be used to send organized groups of Jamaicans
to Cuba for training for this purpose. Evans claimed to be
working with a “gyndicate" in the United States which is

to finance a communist revolution in Jamaica. He claimed
thie is the same “syndicate” which in the United States

had caused Jack Ruby te kill Lee Harvey Oswald, the assassin
of President Kennedy. Svana further claimed to be enlisting
aid of Jamaican criminal element to organize an extortion
racket to shake down some 100 off-track betting shops in
Jamaica, proceeds from which vere to be used in revolution.

Evang claims to be a film director, educated in
the United States where he lived from 1953 to 1966. Jamaican
polico found evidence he had lived in New York City under
an alias and entered Jamaica in September, 1966, using falee
documentation, He maintained he had engaged in civil rights
activities while in the United States. His German-born wife
and child reportedly lived in Binghamton, New York, until
January, 1967, when they joined him in Jamaica. Investigation
to date by Jamaican authorities bas failed to substantiate ‘
any of Evans’ claims and his true identity is still in doubt.

AHS: rwf
(7)

: CONTINUED - OVER

: BF

HW 50953 DocId:32319404 Page 5



Memorandum to Mr. W. c. Balls in
Re: JOHN EVANS

Information furnished concerning Evans indicates
be may well be mentally unbalanced. Despite this, his ‘
elaimed connection with a United States “syndicate” which
caused Ruby to kill Oswald and his alleged major involve~
ment in a plan to overthrow the Jamaican Government with
Cuban and "syndicate" assistance along with his indicated

- 13-year residence in the United States dictate that we
conduct investigation in effort to determine his activities
while in thie country. [OTA iw to pass tol

pertinent results of our
THaUAT ESS (5)

. Bureau files contain no information identifiable
with Evane. By separate letter, New York and Albany being
instructed to initiate investigation. Other offices covering
Evans’ claimed United States residences instructed to review
their files and police and credit reeords. Pertinent results,
appropriately cleared for_passage to Jamaican authorities,

will be furnished te CIA [for rolay to 1@

ACTION:

None; For information.

2

HW 50953 DocId:32319404 Page 6

