# 124-90147-10097

## Page 1

124-90147-10097

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90147-10097

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-93072-88

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 10/26/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

19.1

HW 50953

DooId: 32339384

Page 1

82

---

## Page 2

14. ANDOR

Tali

..

INFORMATION

TIC DAUNENTAS SANITIZE

morado, Sulas

(NT) 105-93072 - 88

28

DaterÉt-

SECRET:

1 = Liaison

1 = Mr. Belmont

1 = Mr. Sullivan

1 = Mr.

Wannall

1 - Mr. Dunn

October 26, 1962

To:

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

From:

subject:

Attention:

reputy Director, Plans

John Udgar Hoover, Director

RICHARD THOMAS GIDSON

RECISTRATION ACT -CUBA

INTERNAL. SECURITY • CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS NNCLASSIFIED

DATE 04183

BYSP-& BTSIRLS

Ba/00/0

SOSMACIGHT

ALE INTORMATION CONTAYNE 11?

UNCON IS UNCLASSTPTED EXCES

READING

ROOM

Hd

69.

Reference is made to the letter from this Bureau

dated August 27, 1962, a copy of which was given to the

Deputy Assistant Secretary for Security, Department of State.

A Special Agent of our New York City Office has

received the following letter dated October 17, 1962,

from

the subject.

The return address on the letter is "c/o

Libroirle Anglaise 42, rue de Seine Paris-VI, France. *

can scal be o use to you, even from here, it

think it worthwhileS the Committee could shut down

within a few days without any serious disticulties,

especially nou that tee has learned he isn't gotta

get any money from our friends in the Carthhern

as I said before. l

*IE I

am

no longer here, Tony will know

Ison

mont

reach me. GLa

sper

(Callahan -

Conrad

(DeLoach.

CAn®

"Best wishes,

Evans -

Gule -

Josen

DADA

sullivan -

noel

New York (105-42387) (See Note,

Page

tier

.. Room —

-1

- 97-4196

(rPCC)

indy

JUDAAUIC

TELETYPE UNIT

to

UNRECOR

Y FILED IN

ECRET

SEE. NOTE, PAGE TWO

NH 50953

D001d: 32339384

Page 2

---

