# 124-10365-10001

## Page 1

124-10365-10001

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10365-10001

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 65-68530-649

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/13/1970

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

NOSENKO RE OSWALD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO, INC LHM

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId:32318806 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

SUBJECT

LAM TO CIALAANSA

8/21/70

$557

Classift

Declassify

CARE AN

ChANN

•- TIONAL FORM NO, tO

SY 10M EDITION

ISA FPMR (6 CPR) 101-11.8

FINITED STATES GOVERIWENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (65-68530)

SAC, WEO (134-5437)

(P)

(NORMAN 8) (U)

MEIS

15P-

(00 :WFO)

SECRET

RIETON CASTAINED

BASSIF 19D

*I SHORN

(5T-105

DECLASSIFIED SY 5668 560/K58

8-14-98.

DATE: AUG 1 3 1970

APPPNPRIAJE AGENCIES

CES

ING

ADVIS2D E

SLIP (3) C

Enclosed herewith are five copies for the Bureau,

one for New York, of IHM captioned "KIM GSORGIYEVICH

X KRUPNOV; ESPIONAGE - RUSSIA," reporting the recollection

of SAMMY concerning this subject

obtained during many

interviews

dews Ringe December

• December,

1967 •

(u)

B. APPROX 19/7 0R 19/19

KRAne LHM has been class

"Secret! since it

contains information from

CIA which

is so classified.

LIGE, AGE.

08(4)

Source T-1 is

SAMMY

Since KRUPNOV has never been in this country and

it is considered unlikely he will be assigned here the

LiM has abeen submitted to the Bureau and New York In cap-

tioned case thus obviating the opening of new dead case he

CLASSIFIED AM

APPROPRIATE AGEN

EXTENDED BY

AND. FIELD 03

-103K1

REASON FOR EX

FCIM, 11, 1-26,2

ANSION

.2.+3..

Stutt

Massificatio

DATE OF REVIEW

REC-7%5-

68530-6419

let*

ENGLOSURE X-IIZ

Bureau (Enc.5)

New York [105-56721)

nc.2) CRMS

WFO

(1 - 65-11395) (KRUPNOV)

2358

(U)

10 AUG 14: 1970

CIA HAS: NO; OBJECTION TO

DECLAS

ISIFISATION AND/OR

RELEASE GP CIA INFORMATION.

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Im

6-17-98

SOVIET SECTION-

SECRET

870 .S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plần

50953

DocId: 32318806

Page

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Washington, D. C. 20535

AUG 1 3 1970

4330E132

102339 19

E::

2E0 1EGR& SMORN

ORRAISE

KIM GEORGIYEVICH KRUPNOV

ESPIONAGE - RUSSIA

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT

the

BRACKETS

U)

IM 6-17-98

Classified

Declassify

The information

set forth hereinafter concerning

captioned individual was obtained from a confidential source

(I-1) who 1s a former Soviet intelligence officer during

the course of numerous interviews.

The bona fides of this:

source has not been established, however, he has furnished

reliable information in the past.

The source advised he was well acquainted with Km

ONly pgs:

Krupnov and had worked with him from 1962 to 1964 in the :

Seventh Department (Tourist) of the Second Chief Directorate

WERE PELTiNENT TO

(SCD) of KGB.

Source described subject as being about forty"

five years of age at this time. He said Krupnov was well

- 103%1

educated and had studied and completed a course in econo-

D/KSR

THE JFK RECORDS (HSCA

mIcs at some Soviet Institute, name not recalled. After

entering KGB the subject completed a five year correspondence

course in the Higher School of KGB and recelved a degree in

@ law. T-l also recalled that Krupnov was working in 1962 or

11963 on a masters degree and source believed his thesis was

on the subject of tourists. Source advised Krupnov 1s

married and has one son by the name of Andrey. His wife,

Vera, was employed outside of KGB and worked In a clerical

capacity. Source stated when Vera Krupnov was a teenager

she had lived in territory occupied by the German Army and

observed that in earlier days such as the 1940's this would

CLASSIFIED BY 56l8

25X

DECLASSIFY O

have

precluded Krupnov from marrying her and remaining in

KGB®

Source identified one Mikhail Fedorovich Cherkasoy

as a diplomat in the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs and

remarked that this individual was a relative puMpE khacTs

Krupnov•

CLASSIFIED

EXTENDED

AND

AND FIE

2333 GAJ/CH

ADVIS

SECRET

REASON FOR

NSION

FCIM, 11, 1242

-.2+3

DATE OF REVIE

FOR

clasifications

10 71

DECLASSIFICATION.

811319°

GROUS 1

Excluded Iron automtio

montanes cad

120109015lcat1on

65--

ENCLOSURE)

6 85 200

649

NH 50953

DocId: 32318806

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

KIM GEORGZ YEVICH KRUNOY A (RU)

visitor in the Soviet Union, She was well known to KGB from

her work in 1960 or 1961 with a ballet group from leningrad.

Source explained that a female artist from the ballet troup

mentioned above had received a letter proposing defection and

had reported it to the security officer of the group who in

turn reported his supposition that the approach was perpe-

trated by-l

source said he had gone to

Geneva, Switzerland, on March 14, 1962, as security officer

with a Soviet delegation. Upon his return in June 1962, he

learned that Krupnov and Anatolly Kovalenko. Deputy Chief,

Seventh Department, SCD, had approached L

and (s)

recruited her. however, she was;not trusted by KGB. Source

said

was suspected of having been an agent of

no admissions of any such agency to KGB.-

Source mentioned an interesting item concerning

Harvey Lee Oswald, assassinator of President John F. Kennedy,

Source stated in 1962 (actually 1963) Oswald applied at

Mexico City, Mexico, for a Soviet visa in order to return to

Russia.&cThe matter was reported to Vladimir D. Chelnokov,

Chief, Seventh Department, SCD, who stated the department and

the Second Chief Directorate had no interest in Oswald, how»

ever, he instructed the source to call the KGB, Belorussia,

and obtain a summary of the file on Oswald. Source said this file

file was opened in 1960 by Kim G. Krupnov, Senior Case Officer,

First Section, Seventh Department, who thereafter sent it to

KGB headquarters at Minsk with instructions to watch Oswald.

Source said he received the summary in due course but by this

time the President had been assassinated by Oswald and there

was an order from General Oleg Gribanov to bring the Oswald

file to Moscow Immediately by military plane. Source stated

this was done and the file was carefully examined by him

along with Krupnov and Vitall Dera. It was ascertained there

was no record of any approach having been made to Oswald or

ruptoy and VItall Dera®

of any conversations of KGB with Oswald. ar

A Phas dia

He don.

SECRET

• 9101121

3026011

• to 1

87 6

7

307.10000

Nt 70953

DocId: 32318806 Page 4

---

