124-90092-10016)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90092-10016
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 65-67235-648
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE :
DATE: 03/05/1963
PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS :
WILLIAM K. HARVEY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B.
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS : RPT

vl

HW 50953 DocId:32330771 Page 1


i

eo

G ©

@)
5-85177

Tivset7 nim

TABLE OF EQUTENTS

ANALYSIS, TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES,
DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS, CIA

III. | INTERVIEW OF JAMES CRITCHFIELD, 24

CHIEF, NEAR EAST-SUB- ASIAN DIVISION,
DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS, CIA

INTERVIEW OF WILLIAM K, HARVEY, - 29 7%
CIA

a or om oemest,
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, T. (NICAL
SERVICES DIVISION, CIA
i]
VI. INTERVIEW OF SERGE PETER KARLOW, CIA (63)
: (a) Cassignnent *MGechnicar Aids (Sx!) wy
is"

Detachme (TaD) ,
Fi Germany ,f/1950 - 195:

(1) ‘ravel in Europe During]
Tenure at TAD Tag] A@(u)
(a) |Travel to Berlin TSAKY y
)

. (B) (tenure he Secretary off-Technical 97
Requirements Board. (TRB)]J958 -
| F859IG6/)/4) SayQyit
Vil. » INTERVIEW OF MRS. FERIDA KARLOW (u) 115
Vill. : INTERVIEW OF MRS. PETER KARLOW (4) 118

oe of = vay 23

Page
I. Fora EFFORTS TO PENETRATE y SR} a | MS acer = Sereute
Il. } INTERVIEW OF re” 13
COUNTER INT: 'GENC. CH AND

HW 50953 DocId:32330771 Page 2

|||



|

WFQ/65-851 =) SECRET

AGT knew’ of’ no relatives of the KARLOWs living abroa

nor was he aware of any financial interests which either of the H
KARLOWs held in Germany 3fin discussing KARLOW's associates,
furnished, the Saadeh imtividuals as being KARLOW's overseas

a e
GORDON STEWART, Head of the clAfStation at Frankfu: '
K. HARVEY, CIA fepresentative in Berlin i
IA representative at Berlin >
fficial in Germany. Ge y

G6) d KARLOW as being primarily interested
in associating with "front office personnel; that when KARLOW did
mingle with the_co-workers, it was more or less an act of

condescendence aS (SOW

CE bene that because of the wide area that TAD
was servic. behalf of CIA, it was necessary that a number
of TAD personnel be constantly travelling remarked that

he was travelling steadily and that KARLOW was a frequent
traveler in behalf of TAD __|could recall no specific dates

of trips by KARLOW during the period 1940 to,1953, but |
furnished the following in this regar ' Set

Lah OOO |

( a lestimated that KARLOW probably made 12 to 15 trips
to Vie luring this period for Agency purposes. He recalled
hat the Agency was servicing a number of requests from Vienna;

Went at_ol Dane "We had a riotous operation going the; and

iy i
Red eded some help. (3 believed that ould H
yY urnis. AYR) information regarding KARLOW's activities i
in Vienne (ef

(G__Irecaltea that during this particular period there A
were no-travel restrictions on American personnel in and around |

Vienna; that frequently one was not aware he was even in a
Soviet zone could & regajl how long KARLOW remained in
Vienna on his trips here (Spl

~40- °°

HW 50953 Docld:32330771 Page 3


A

was not sure of the date. He mentioned HOUCK was still (Chief
of Base at Berlink@nd said he saw HOUCK, KARLOW explained that
military orders Were necessary for any travel into Berlin,
including flight by Pan American Airways, which also operated
under military control. He stated the orders for travel by ¢ }

train we t MOS t formal, since @ check by the Soviets was
involved. i] “1 ie
v 7} -
Og

RLOW related one of hig men from TAD,
as stationed in [Berlit nder the name "NEILL,
Oug. this was in 1951 or affer 1951. He so stated at
other men from TAD had temporary duty in [Berli nd recalled
vaguely the photography men d set up some new equipment and
dark room there, ad visited Berlin in connection with
some Polish matté?, WESLEY PARCELLS on some German Ythings," and
cl the chemist, in connection with some ean SEI

fy

KARLOW said he could not say whether he was in Berlin
in August, 1951,, but recalled he was there on at least one

occasion in the summer becauge ke,glearly remembered how early

the sun rose in the morning > eed

YY ihcey uercir zie
KARLOW stated he rarely became-involved in

and was usually occupied in making arrangements and setting things

up for use of the facilities o: He recalled, wever, he was

involved in an operation wit. d HARRYXROSITZKE of f

the SR (Soviet Russia) Division and flew to Berlin’in 1952 in :

this connection, KARLOW explained the q@eration involved a planned

attempt to steal the latest model MIG fighter plane and great

preparation had been made Hut at the last minute the adventure |

was called of i 1 and diplomatic i

repercussjon: bls ) ‘

r
RLOW first said he was Ynable to recall visiting t
Berlin in 1953 but later said he recalled seeing WILLIAM K, HARVEY, |
Chief of Station, (December, 1952, to August, 1959) on more than
one occasion so he supposes he did make such visits. When |
informed that it was understood that KARLOW had been to Berlin
ten to fifteen times in the period 1950 - 1953, ‘KARLOW offered

no objection and said it was possible that this was true. With
reference to his later assignment in Munich from November, 1953,

: to the end of 1955, KARLOW stated he wgs fairly certain he had
not visited Berlin during this pertoul UW)
a ihe

HW 50953 DocId:32330771 Page #


4

| b . Vy

KARLOW stated he had stayed with Agency associates on )
some visits to Berlin and onione or more occasions he stayed |
the Harnach House, an Army guest house for the Berlin comman i] j

i
f
\

KARLOW further advised that before his marriage he
and his mother had visited Italy and Corsica, and also the
Austrian spa town of Bad Gastein and thought that may have been
during the Summer of 1951. He said on a second a hose
areas he was accompanied by hismother and his wife, )

KARLOW also stated that after his marriage he and his
wife had gone to Corsica on two occasions, and to Rome, and had i
spent New Years Eve 1952 - 1953 at a small town in Austria. u |
These were purely personal trips. He said he did not reca |
having taken a trip to Berlin for purely personal retpoeee ei |
|

KARLOW stated that before their marriage "LIBBY"
RAUSCH had gone to Berlin and stayed at the residence of :
WILLIAM K, HARVEY. KARLOW said he had not visited Berlin-with

YY "LIBBY" before marriage but recalled he had dog so on one |

i) ce occasion after marriage and he recollected h a ome ill |
on the train from some oysters he had eaten, 1] u) E

ra {

‘ Z i

OW explained in early February, 1950, he proceeded

: “to ‘ook over Chief of TAD which was lo
in
Lo had mail addres

fuburb of nd
APO 709, TesT
_-* Jocated in an adjoining building. KARLOW advised when he
assumed char, of TAD the unit consisted of only about nine 1
persons, Fr, lection KARLOW identified TAD personnel
as PouLows § 795)

| Gl fy Major Jneotions, the previous Chief nd a 4
\ NY former officer of Nat 1 Security Agency, (NSA } w® j
Captain GUY DRENNAN, also formerly with NSA, and ;
currently night Duty Officer pit: CO Branch of
the Department of State; ange
{

@ bry of xisow ani civilian Os caot-cromset, who
became deputy o: had a small laboratory with several
technicians an pera t what KARLOW described as a postal
censorship; a :

4 ,

HW 50953 Docld:32330771 Page 5


uw
wr/65-851
DEWipr

SECRET

today is closely similar to that of his appearance 15 years

ago. He said he has never worn glasses and his weight

has increased only ten pounds since he was in college and !
it has never varied more ne( Sd t any time. He said !

2

he has never worn a mustache u

Late in the interview, ‘aid upon further

recollection he remembers contacting @ Professor HAROLD

IOSELEY, who was Head of Soviet Studies“at Colinbia” Miversity

NéW"York City, ven hs recruiting employees, S)

said that upon thoughtful consideration of his activities at

that time he recalled that there was a CIA interest in ob- i
taining a well-qualified man for a position in Moscow. He
said efforts were being made to find a man who was to have
a ‘S)This person to be hired

as supposed to have a fluent command of the Russian language
and he had to be of Anglo-Saxon descent. He said CIA gave
instructions that the man to be placed_in the sition in
Moscow could not be of Slovak descent
possible that HAROLD MOSELEY referred
a prospective employee for.the position in
but at this time_he has no recollection of either. the name
or the face of S)He said he could definitely state
he had never t Sr to Admiral HILLENKOTTER to
discuss employment aid he does not know and does
not believe he has n t dentity of any CIA
employee in Moscow, Russia GR

Baia he is unable to explain why|
would havé a@ ssed any correspondence relating! to Ss

employment to an individual‘using the name of He
further said he es a, 6% lencé would
om Oo. € er.

have been addressed to] in New York City with

an address, on the pott
treet o W., Washington, D. C.

ad néver authorized HARRY ROSITZKE or WILLIAM HARVEY to

use his name and address as a coverAn gorrespondence re-_
lating to recruitment of employees
[fea he is acquainted with HARRY A; ROSITZKE,

i
who is aIlSo employed with CIA aid his association |

with ROSITZKE is not now and has never been close. He Said_

he is unable to recall exactly when he became acquainted CRET
with ROSITZKE but he associates their meeting with a period BAW
shortly following World War II. He is unable to state how

they became acquainted because they have never been assigned/ i"
to the same work. They have never lunched together and the \ y

i ad ~ 124 -

HW 50953 Docld:32330771 Page 6


ic

\u fi
WFO, ssa “Sie
AWN im :

V manvsy, WILLIAM K.
VEY, Mrs. WILLIAM K.

@
HELMS, RICHARD

Deceased)
S :
2 Tal
HOUCK, LESTER C.

le
HOUSTON, LAWRENCE R. H
= NEL, ‘TRB
(Deceased)

9

JESSELL, WALTER
JOHNSON, QUENTIN
JOUBLANC, JOSEPH CHARLES (JAY)
KALNAY, FRANCIS i)
KALNAY, FRANK
KARLOW, ELIZABETH (LIBBY)
KARLOW, FERIDA :
KARLOW, SERGE PETER
LOW, SONJA
|S
UFFMAN, WALTER J.
KAUFMAN, JOHN HEIDEN \(6)
(OKHLOV, NIKOLAI

KHRUSHCHEV, NIKITA
KIRKPATRICK, LYMAN B.

IE

PeSRarpoed eases seceeessrenseesseseeeearePeoer ar ee

c

Page

29, 40, 83, 84, 124
38

82
58
109
34,
78,
aa?
35
124,
72
87,
82
102
14
115
70,
70,
70,
113
107
40
98
35,
72,
61
28;
27,
43

85
97

125, 126
106

115
115

83, 87
73

42, 88, 94,
29, 39, 115

55
24, 81

104

118

HW 50953 DocId:32330771 Page 7
