124-90137-10082|

JFK Assassination System
identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90137-10082
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — CR 105-89923-111
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: LALLIER
TITLE:
DATE: — 12/09/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
CLIP
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATEOFLASTREVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
| COMMENTS: = MEMO.

v9.1

| NW 50953 DocId:32337316 Page 1


OPMONAL FORK NO. 10
[x eee

PED ‘STATES GOVE

Se

: & Lanier} 2 SECRET wp ite by

Tolson
Mohr
Parsons
Beimont

C

MENT {

DeLoach
TO

FROM peek
P.

Papich :
ft CLI oJ gee
: 48) rai
| ia on KAS he? 8y 6
\ Agency (CIA), made refgence *
1960... captioned as above. According to his memorandum
included a report of an interview with a Bureau informant in
New York City. On Page 4 of the Bureau report is a reference to
a CaptainMlalloy, who was characterized as being the over-all
(, Director 0 rente Revolucionario Democratico (erp) (8

| SUBJEC

s
ratea that CIA has been unable to identify

description\s further stated that if the Bureau saw it
fitting to fu identity of the source,

might enable
CIA to better determine the identity of Malloy
ACTION:

i
|
tae Malloy an
1

: The above information is being directed to the attention

I
Gallchen ——_ |
!
|
|

=

4
7 rr i

iis yen vip i

entral Inté Atgence |

o a Bureau_m um dated November 9, |!

would be possible to furnish a more complete

\ of the Nationalities Intelligence Section. he reply to CIA should
} be transmitted via Liaison BG (a)
SJP:ban
\" (5) Caw
1 CLASSIFIED BY
: 1 - Mr. Donahoe LEGLASSIFY O
, 1 - Mr. Nasca
\ 1 - Liaison iF
f 1 - Mr. Papic 7 a
REC: 8 fas ~£ 99% 3
CIA HAS § EX: 130 aoe
DEC: Se tsa” 20 69
RELEASE Ur UIA iN
IN THIS DOCUMENT. exveey? + Prehehe7s —_ —
KE. 9]
wee ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN U5 UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

: WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE, ta
1
4

; ott News Sc
_ OMtieg’

 12-I64o EGRET

1 bee

\ -

\

aS a ae eageoeeengneaneaneaniaeaneseuiae acne erate -
HW 50953 DocId:32337316 Page 2
