124-10320-10382|

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/10/201

RESTRICTIONS

COMMENTS :

i AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
“PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

CURRENT STATUS :.
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

Agency Information

FBI
124-10320-10382

HQ

100-409763-NR

Document Information

FBI
TOMPKINS,
NY

09/29/1967
2

MARK LANE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A; 1B

Redact

11/02/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

{wa
HW 50953 Docid:32312065

67

Page 1



SUBJECT: ’

formation contained. herein’ was, yobtained: from

: By Bie s*Jon dates. indigsted by SAS JUELL R¢ ESS, and (S
THOMAS D. -J., BROOKS, r. oe the. .Cenkr:
“Thtelligence%Agency” ive 5812=— isa confidential 6)
“formant, contact with whom has, been insufficie

eee establish his: reliability. at

There ‘should’ be no ‘Gissemination of the~ scdnines

. of this. memorandum and ‘information ‘ ‘from{NY 5812- S* outs
of the Bureau wihout Bureau alithorization.” mt

pa

pies! oa : Im “the event. KGB code‘ names appear, in this
é “mendrandum ‘they: are not to be further: disseminated.’
paces teat The’ classification given any “communication”
Ra a “prepared for dissemination outside the Bureaw containing
‘ information ‘from[Qy 5812- S¥}will depend. upon ‘the -natur
and content of’ such information, each case: standing
its: om ‘merits. . Under nocireumstances sho
fication | of Scie than, "Confidential" be uti

: : CAUTION: Must: BE EXERCISED IN fF, “HANDLING OF
; ANY. ISEORMATTON RECEIVE SAND NO aCTTON (3
DAR 3

Boerne W WET ;
: oF THIS”) HIGHLY SENSI TF OnANE. :

Gg ee 100-409763
. Bureau. (105-162125

Buréau
New, York .(65-24479) |
"(105-65532)-

New. York
‘Lo -sNew York. .

| HW 50953 DocId:32312065 Page 2


aide

=
eapiorseeuiecasaiie

e

NY 100-117844 SECRET

Source advised as follows. on 8/16/67:

Source advised that aw|is ‘the KGB code name @)
for MARK LANE, a lawyer and the author Bid regent” book:-—
critical of the Warren Commission findings}on fine
assassination of President KENNEDY. Source further
advised that BORIS OREKHOV, a KGB Officer assigned to the
NY Residency, had two meetings. with LANE and had established
a "trused relationship" with LANE. Source stated, however, ‘

that LANE had gone to Europe and after his return, LANE was
not contacted.

Source also stated that the NY Residency. of the
KGB had established "conditions of meetings" with] (sra."" | (s)

BORIS M. OREKHOV, a Soviet national, was
employed as Information Officer, Office of
Public Information, at the UN Secretariat.
OREKHOV was in the: US during the period
February 12, 1964, to June 17, 1965. He
returned to the US on 8/19/65, and last
departed this country on April 2, 1966.

The above information is submitted for review
and evaluation.

a whe

| HW.50953 DocId:32312065 Page 3

eee FT

