# 124-90140-10032

## Page 1

124-90140-10032

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90140-10032

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4351-127

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH

TO: LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE :

07/17/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32338075

Page 1

---

## Page 2

IPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER!

Memorandum

Tolson

Belmont

ENT

Mohr —

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone -

Rosen

TO

: Mr. L'Allier

SECRE

July 17, 1961

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter

FROM

: S. J. Papich

dasshiel by 98a3 Reeleti

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy -

declassi

OADR

21/324

SUBJECT:

IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

668JG4

#/ 19/95 <JFK)

Reference is made to memorandum dated July 10,

1961,

from Mr. D. E. Moore to Mr. Sullivan.

We previously had

made

available to Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) information

concerning

the subject, who offered excellent potential as a

CIA established

contact with

to him but subject has complained that there has not been

any followup action on the part of CIA

Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, on July 13,

Pursuant to instructions 1961, that

S that ma rene ormone

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE D% GIA INIFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMEN SACE BANCISTS

very disturbed

because he has not been contacted by the Agency.

It was emphasized to Mrs. Roman that certain commitments allegedly

had been made to

and he 1s waiting for action

(5)

Mrs. Roman conferred with other CIA representatives and

dvised that the Agency had notspeen able to arrange the prope

type of assignment for

but definitely was very muc

interested in him. She further stated that a CIA

official would

be contacting

in the very near future

Based upon

his discussions at CIA,

the Liaison Agent

received the impression that this matter is being very poorly

handled by the Agency. It has an excellent opportunity to acquire

the services of an unusual source but certainly does not appear to ab

be giving this the proper type of attention. even if the Agency

did not have an assignment arranged for

CIA at least could

be maintaining contact with him

that

nis attitude would continue

to be friendly and cooperativel

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ACTION:

HEREIN IS UNCGASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

The above information is being directed to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Sectu-48

SJP: ban

(5)

lax

CLASSIFIED BY 5668

SLD/ISR

Mr.

Donahoe

DEQL/.SC

20X.

Mr.

G. C. Moore

Liaison

(JEK) REC-38 22=4354 - 127 GO

5512

1 - Mr: Papich

MA JUL 19 1961

97-4351

Let-Ny

COPIES MADE DATE 6-16-13.BY

7/20/61

SECRE

EVE RE PARIE

Rooils

TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

HW 50953 DocId:32338075 Page 2

---

