{24 10460-10034

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:
RECORD SERIES:
AGENCY FILE _ NUMBER:

AGENCY INFORMATION
FBI
124-10160-10031
HO

§2-109060-6521

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG. BR
TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/09/1968
PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: JFK, ASSISTANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: core CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: 06/30/1997 UPDATE DATE: — 02/12/2001
STATUS Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1B)
COMMENTS:

HW 50953 DocId:32166506 Paye 1


7 Jommonns rote no.

Sar 1908 ees
2k fon cat eve) 101

_/ UNITED STATES G7-VERNMENT ‘ . .
Memorandum SECRET

TO : Director, FBI (62-109060) ‘DATE: 7/9/68
ALL Tero UA Tak CONTALNE

ABI 79 CHCLASSTFIED BAUZPY
FROM: gat, Bern (62-43) (RUC) fant wortciemne

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 70
SREP NTS REM E oe DECLASSIFICATION ANGIOR,

‘ supyect: “aSsass

2 RELEASE OF CIA INFOSMATION
NO 22, 1963 !
y, f “DALLAS, TEXAS bmeketed. :
J" Ye \5
Grek ReBulet 6/12/68, and BERlet 6/7/68. ™ ©

’
| Information furnished by FRANK RITTMAYER, ip
LA aka, has been made the subject of an LHM, 5 copies of which ™
“ ta are enclosed. RITTMAYER stated that he used the alias of
SHEPMAN in his letter since he had written the Bureau in
1965 requesting information concerning the FBI and was ot

afraid that the Bureau would therefore consider him too oh
juvenile to take his information seriously. a \

In view of the indefinite nature of rrrmmaveR)
information as well as the fact that it is hearsay several jf! 7
times removed and that the persons who made the statements ii
would be extremely difficult to identify and locate, it is *
xecommended that no further action be taken in this matter.

With regard to reBERLet\\ cra, a has sntormea(S) \
that RICHARD CASE NAGELL is well knownfto th: uureau and is a
| considered to be mentally unbalanced. :

, LLM Be }
yo he ee'd Wie n Ay

thes
De (aeheath, (pencis) rae fo fers #922
(27 Fbalias) (1 encl) ¥
Liaison) Dp hale

a &
eaGR lil 97. ‘ Lo ee
SEPT gem, i 0 ASS /
ae, f 5 Dab AO GFY e
38 Wy ‘4, 8 ‘

~

8 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payell S avings Phin aw, .
ad ; -

Jy a
RW 50953 DocId:32166506 Paye 2
