# 124-90065-10044

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2018

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90065-10044

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 174-3693-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/18/1972

2

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

CUSOM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT

v9.1

---

## Page 2

Date :

Page

:

06/25/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-90065-10044

RECORDS

SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: CR 174-3693-11

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : MM

TO : HQ

TITLE

: 12/18/72

: RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

CUSOM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B, 4

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/23/98

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 181972

SECRED

NR 019

MP CODE

(TELEY

E

11:26FM

URGENT 12 - 18- 72

GL S

TO ACTING DIRECT OR (174 - 3693)

NEWARK (174 - 1977)

NEW YORK (174-1803)

A14. IMFORMATIOR CONTRINED

MESSIN IS UNCI ASSIFIER

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

# CHEXWISE

FROM MIAMI (174 - 65 8)

7

PAGES

Mt. Felt _

Mt. Baker

Callahon -

Mn

Cleveland

Conrad

Dalbey

Gebhardt -

Mr Jenkins

Me.

Marshall

Mk.

Miler, ES.

Mr. Purvis

Mr. Soyars

Nh

Walters

76ь.

Moot

No. Kaley

6-6-96

CUB ON

CLACOITED BY 5668 SuO/CL

CLNSSIFIED BY: 5668 SLD/KSR

DECLAN/SERT 1/N6/98

25X 0X6

REASON:

DEGLASSIFY ON: X.

RE MIAMI TELETYPE DECEMBER TWELVE LAST TO BUREAU.

ПК)

FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DEVELOPED CONCERNING

LEADING MEMBERS OF FRENIE DE INTEGRACION NACIONALISTA (FIN)

REGARDED BY MIAMI AS LOGICAL SUSPECTS IN THIS CASE:

MARLO PATINE DELGADO AND HIS PARINER, OSCAR MONTAINE,

OPERATORS OF VA CUBA FORWARDING COMPANY, MIANI, AND THEIR

FIVE EMPLOYEES INTERVIEWED AND PHOTOS OF ELEVEN MEN EXHIBITED.

PHOTOS OF SANTIAGO GONZALEZ NARANJO AND FRANCISCO NARANJO

BER CA NDE, LEADERS OF FIN, SELECTED BY SEVERAL

END PAGE ONE

Cinod 1|9|13

WABltab

оєC та

1. 55 WW.

CFORE

174-3693-11

---

## Page 4

PAGE FOUR

MEMBERS OF CUBAN NATIONALIST ASSOCIATION IN NYC OF WHICH GONZALEZ

AND NARANJO WERE FORMER MEMBERS. ON 12-18 MM - 1559- KS ADVISED

THAT AGUERO, NOW RESIDING NYC, IS KWOWLEDGEABLE RE BOMBS AND

JOINED ARA-MIRR.

RE NEW YORK TELS DECEMBER TWELVE AND THIRTEEN TO BUREAU AND

BUREAU TEL DECEMBER FIFTEEN TO MIAMI.

CONCERNING MIAMI LEADS SUBMITTED BY NYC:

(s)

11B.4

MM

S IS DEAD. MIAMI INTERVIEWED MM-

S, ANDE

C,C,C

MM- 1552- KS AT OUTSET IHIS IHIS AND WILL CONTINUE MAINIAIN

CLOSE CONTACT WITH THEM. THE LATTER TWO HAVE FURNISHED PERTINENT

INFORMATION.

HECTOR M. COR NILLOI AND JUAN GARCIA CARDENAS ARE IN JAIL

AND HAVE BEEN FOR SOME TIME. THEY HEADED A CUBAN POWER GROUP

WHICH INCLUDED OMAR SOTO, BRUNO GARCIA CARDENAS, AND MIGUEL

DIAZ GOMEZ, WHO HAVE BEEN POLITICALLY INACIIVE SINCE 1968.

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE, FORMER BROTHER IN LAW OF COR NILLOT

AND KNOWLEDGEABLE RE BOMBS, IS IDENTICAL IO MM- 1550-KS AND IN

ALMOST DAILY CONTACT WITH IRIS OFFICE AND REGARDED AS HIGHLY

RELIABLE.

END PAGE FOUR

ITI4

SA

13

---

