124-90155-10006)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information

FBI
124-90155-10006

HQ

CR 65-68530-113

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
“PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS,

Document Information
FBI
WMFO
HQ

04/08/1964
9

NOSENKO 1964 REPORTINGS
YURI TVANOVICH NOSENKO.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret
1B;3
Redact
11/03/1998

1

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

AT : '

v9

we

HW 50953 DocId:32340191 Page 1


eF-3e trey. 10-29-63)

i
i
: e \
cana 4% ane attest EEEyE H
| ; = FBI H
1
1
Date: 4/8/64
| ovA, HAS NO OBJECTION 0 cette
fe ON ANDO ‘
' BARA iar or cade oy Ld)
cin INFORM c bane ers al 56 $ ud

K SLO Priority.
po co mmgsten onb B1E———cI
|. TO: DIRECTOR, VP (65-68530) Dive

FROM: SAC, rf 34-5437 Sub PNY)

YURI IVANOVICH’NOSENKO As
ESP - R (KGB) )
(00: WFO)

ab 4

rid

ReWFoairtel 4/7/64, (u }

NOSENKO was again interviewed on 4/3/64, by SAs
"THOMAS A. MENDENHALL, ALEKSO POPTANICH and MAURICE A. TAYLOR,
‘Since interview of NOSENKO is being discontinued for the

OSENKO is set forth under cases captioned as follows

UNSUB; (FNU) [actor “Ce, ,)

iC) ‘he meager data available from CIA memo to Directors
|; Of 2/28764,Jwas di; ssed with above source. He stated his
|. knowledge of [ACTORK%4s ascertained by mere chance and he was
nable to furnish any additional facts whatever >)

[bonus L. aupixcsn \( 6)

3many individual cases as possible, Information ace

This case was discussed =briéfly i with source who?
was unable to add a great deal to previous information ue
furnished. Source confirmed the statement that /ALBINGE S¥8 aS
. K
C2)- Bureau - j= Pew bef] e& fan BP EE
1 = New York (Rw) E red a
1 - WFO

Six Aa “be ME Za
& :
AIRTEL | Cc daw.

APR kee 1964

oF its

| “present, effort was made to cover a variety of topics and as &S

Tg ele

Dy.
fi

sk

Z cont?
Approved: wu Cr

Special Age hima hGhdrde beam
ad 04

¥ (THO

i
| NW 50953 DocId:32340191 Page 2



Be

a mr

al

poner

WFO [134-5437 Sub sR) w

It was considered that 2s engaged in spotting for
American intelligence and Was not an officer?) ource stated
the file is in hands offthe Second Section ( Intelligence) ,
First Department (Amer n), Second Directorate, and further
contact by the.Americans with [fomasHevicH will be ewnitedieags )

use ;_ cen [ vones]9] (Q)

Sou: advise Insub Boned hs a prominent millionaire
Baptist, layma: io visit Russia séveral times and was a friend
of former Pr. dent KENNEDY and President JOHNSON, Source
stated [JONES' S last in Russia in January, 1964, and planned
to return April, 1964, and said he was bi studied for
recruitment by one tea related (ones d become acquainted
with one (LOS sno was a fashion show director at
"Don Mo ee Kuznetski Most (Street).. He stated KGB
Learned soxtS yes S a staunch Baptist and impor tant church layman 38)
who should neath ink or have girl friends since he was married
and had a family, He stated.in 1963 KGB succeeded _in ob 2-
ing a photo of subject drinking wine and caressing ["'VERA' en [1
she was partially unclad but they were unsuccessful in obtain-
ing pictures of, more,intimate acts. Source advised in 1964
KGB questionedf LUCIA’ d obtained an admission from her of sexual
intimacy bahia NES fend ceppted her services for succeeding
operations ust ONES) E. The case officer, according to
source, is TALI DERA, 2d recruitment of (JONES desired
because of his highly placed friends and associations, CH -

IRGIL ANSON KRAFT |=)
aka aka(SVYATOI'"'s)

Rana identifi photograph off KRAFT S d described
him as a Baptist Ministe: om near Chicago, Iflinois, who
visited Russia in 1957 and 1963, and also made another trip i
there between these visits. Source said subject was approached
by KGB on all thr visits and indicated KGB interest was based
on the fact (KRAFT, de many speeches and lectures and hada .
radio program or appeared on radio, Source stated AFT {was ans)
1o57( knaPtfilad’a gir and clever individual, Source stated in

1957{ KRAFT\Hiad a girl friend by name NADESHDA IVANOVNA KALESHNIKOVA@) te
who ved Leningrad and who was a KGB agent with ey

"VERA. "'] A recruitment approach-was made in 1957 by (KONSTANT:

CONFPNT IAL :
"5g

i
Nesseeecesueeeereeeeeeneaeness

| NW 50953

Doclda:32340191 Page 3



ae

Say

WEO | 34-5437 sub a} ) u) kone; NTIAL,

. DUBAS, then Chief of the 7th Department. (Tourist). [xxart] ©)

W) ‘alked with the KGB officer but was not recruited, 6:
VERA" |was ought tg Mose: by KGB, After renewed friendship
ith] and[ KRAFT Ware caught having intercourse in
October, 18 3, in the Natio; Hotel, Moscow, and recruitment...
was again proposed to FT Who agreed to meet. with (DuBas] orfeuy) :
designated friends, if they came to Chicago, Source advised
(cna ERaPT |" spite this ostensible recruitment it was his opinion

KRAFT |"canno: e an agent," In support of this opinion, he.
fgeart gene fad no ideological urge, and lacked the. temperame:
for such wo: Source advised the name of the word “SVYATOL']| (s)

i

a)
jource was interviewed concerni subject but was
unable to furnish additional data which would readily identify
the subject. Source stated he was quite certain that the
University at which subject was employed was located in
Nashville, Tennessee, Source mentioned that he had made
the recruitment of subject personally following arrest by KGB =
agents posing as militia in a hotel at Uzhgorod and advised he ,
had personal knowledge of subject and could identify his pictures,
Source mentioned that another agent of KGB was involved when
subject was apprehended during the course of homosexual act, KGB
had obtained photographs of subject in similar unla: Fue)
activity with an agent of KGB in Moscow by name of
VOLKOV, aka Dr. IRNOV, who. gS he CRYPTONYM “gEMELOV,” TeX oF
(9c was noted one|Dr, SMIRNOV. eed in an operation against

ROBERT JAMES Trin 1959,

I BERNARD DAVID meen) ie )

Source advised his recollection of this case was 3
not very clear, He vaguely recalled that during recruitment he:
believed a (Lieuten; pyFotonel GRUSHA, First Department (American),
First Lis sachin participated in the interview of subject,
and that photographs were made of subject wit RUSHA and an

officer of the 7th Department (Tourist), Second Main —— |

|

[NW 50953 DocId:32340191 Page 4


ax es

| gical
WFO 134=5437 Sub 7) Ea ie

were to be used as a. against subject. Source mentioned . (4
ulate GRUSHAJwas a veteran the service who had served in the U. S.,. |
and always worked for/the First Chief Department, First Directorate,
until 1960, when he w: | aeolian to the Seventh Department,
First Directorate, and fireue to Indonesia, ._This officer may
be identical with VLADIMIR ARSENEVICH GRUSHA, YW)

* Source reseated that AW recruited while

working at the Anglo-American School in Moscow at the end of.
1962 or early 1963. The reason for recruitment was her access
to te of the Embassy and it was particularly planned to

use who was of immoral character, against code clerks

of assy. He repeated that the basis for recruitment

was blackmail following her involvement sexually with ‘a Negro
agent of KGB from one of the an states, Source mentioned
KGB had color photographs of engaging in sexual relations

in 1958, however, these pictures revealed intimacy with a
Russian and KGB did not feel this = 10) sufficient evidence

to blackmail this particular penser 0)

Photographs of subjects were displayed to source
who stated that he had seen pictures of CAR and STUART SEBORER. S)
in the office of the First Department, Second Directorate,
possibly around 1960 or 1961. He said he had heard abot the
case but could furnish no details and did not know who had
mentioned it or shown the pictures. He thought possibly it
was(VLADISLAV M, KOVCHUK or MIKHAIL GEORGIEVICH wameEY Dg) « )

C Gs) 7

Source advised that KGB had studied captioned
individual but had not recruited him or even made serious

contact with the subject Source recalled e brother
of subject, a(Dr. ‘rom @)
Sverdlovsk, had a; TO aSSISt KGB ana nad cted tie

subject but later reported that-it was a difficult situatio:
wovrio kl

_s. SECRET

4

STUART JACK SEBORER
OSCAR SEBORER
MIRIAM ZEITLIN SEBORER

[NW 50953 Docla:32340191 Page 5


WFO peesaar Sub ew ENT, !

and the meetings were very emotional and subject was suspicious
of the contacts with him, Source advised KGB was in turn
suspicious that subject was connegqted with American intelligence
and the case was left hanging. S)

E Dp)

Photographs of EVGENI PETROVICH GOLUBEV and VLADIMIR
IVANOVICH GOLUBEV were displayed to source who was unable to

ither picture, as the individual who met with
m one occasion, He stated he had been shown a photo-
graph oO e individual in es by CIA and believed his

name was SERGEI GOLUBEY.,

Sour amagfas eh he entered the Second Directorate

THOMA:

of KGB bpo2 WHITNEY, sS already recruited and VENIAMIN A,
KOZLO AY he “case fice: Source stated he had translated
reports prepared by {WHITNE’ y Englisk for KGB, He stated that
it consisted of items of néws and bits of political information ,-
items of interest concerning the, American Embas and data about
erica: Source advised that (JULIA ZAPOLSKA, Wife of
WHITNEY$2had been an agent of KGB in 1941 and during the war but she
was not’a KGB agent in 1952 and was regarded as unsympath£tic with
the Soviet regime... Source mentioned(JULIA] was personally(s)
acquainted with NIKOLAI KHOKHLOV, Soviet defector. nd said in
1941 they had attended special courses together in Moscow in
preparation of under=cover work in area occupied by the Germans, ~

‘ that GUL sat e had heard fro; nLTNEY) £ the First Directorate ~-
that (JUL fad SP EBORHLO fro ITNEY] d thatL YURI ROSTVOROV] fe,
€ paces her and having relations

and/or noe sil ko
with ee seme

GEORGI BOLSHAKOY “Kay 5
During the int view sotlrce mentioned the name of —

subject and advised that ILSHAKOV was a personal friend. He-
stated BOLSHAKOV is an employee of GRU currently working under
cover for the press agency Novosti (APN) in Moscow, under his
eatrect name, Source stated that BOLSHAKOV cooperated with
the source in Moscow in return for favors extended by the
source,

. i TER poner

| NW 50953 DocId:32340191 Page 6

