124-90107-10065)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Ageney Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90107-10065
RECORD SERIES: HQ
_AGENCY FILE NUMBER: —105-117222-NR
Document Information
FBI

DOCUMENT TYPE

COMMENTS :

ORIGINATOR :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

09/11/1967
2
COMANDOS L.

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1A; 1B; 1C

Redact

08/03/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

AT

v9.

63

HW 50953 Docld:32333482 Page 1


Date: 9/11/67

1

|

1

1

ine 1

FBI :
1

|

1

t

> Transmit the following "Bla HAS At OR. eel 1m

GCUMENT, : rt Prion 7
sarronscccn ; “epi gna -
; a]

3-14- o ae
TO: See Ue feos. -agisea) Ss

: )

i

i FROM: SAC, MIAMI (134-1368) 3 ©

! soo 1228-p 19 :
IS - CUBA

i

00: Miami)

| ; :

I ee

| ae pee z

i 2 7 Re Miami setter (o/21/9p

TX 00 f

j <i: { n_accordance yj instructions concerning the
iN als handhing of(double agents{™there are enclosed herewith

h

ten copies seach of two separate letterhead memoranda.

ee Fro

These letterhead memoranda have been_classifie
SECRET, fin order to protect the identity of aldguble agent)(S)
of continuing value to the United States

The(|Cypban Intelligence Service (crs) instructed Cs
(Exe double agent) to make periodic written ports concerning
activities of fe anti-Castro organizatio: COMANDOS L, at

1 Miami, Florida. These written report were-to Be PHStTS Seraphed
| | aks = New York City in($
‘ ast eptember, 1967. Accordingly; these letterhead
; Tin ac set forth the texts of two reports prepared by
ne) Tin accordance with ee i tions.
yy ere: —
ys oo* { 0S~
i i OR!
aon O Bureau (nes. (RM) seine \
N Lol Miami 150°SEF.25. 1967) mm
aN WWS:3jhk
* a (4) 7 ce pelentl Go 1D woe Sememqg SER.
Sen ee hese po SAT EL
y oO ‘fo ‘)
\\ et = BishoP * Coma 2)

ca

Awidloee  Plainteat oF code) i aememail

J

_ Le

Approved:

oo

i in FILED, nee S+/6E/S0Y

HW 50953 Docld:32333482 Page 2



oh . : pos fFor ses J ge

It is to be noted that these reports are rather
brief, general and somewhat naive but are in keeping with
the informant's capabilities and comprehension of such
matters. Information contained therein is generally non-
specific in nature, widely known in the Cuban community,

and much it @ has appeared in local Spanish speaking news

fer media.

The os is reques, d to advise whether or no
“| he | eee can_be authorized jto make.this &nformation sJ
available to SAKER| on or about 9/29/67. :

@~
<a]
Ahead rea Pipe
San Lar ater 5
fer

?

HW 50953 Docld:32333482 Page 3

