AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10273-10104
“RECORD _SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1640

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
‘TO: |. SECRETARY OF STATE
TITLE:

DATE: 02/16/1967

PAGES: 102
SUBJECT: CIA, NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOC, PICKETING, DEMONSTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT :
NEW

ORIGINAL Secret
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW_DATE: 10/30/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001
STATUS ~ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
Consultation
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)
JFK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS: EBF, INC 2 ADMIN PAGE, 3 T/T, 34 MEMO, 5 LTR, 2 LHM, 6 NEWS ARTIC, 8

ui A/T

HW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 1


= ae ' a i
’ ry a - s &@
“B/18/67 ;
a es
i: 7 iH ‘ : le _
p59 4 FES ALBMATL

TO: 6 SAC, JACKSONVILLE a
_ FROM: SAC, JACKSON (166-NzW) (P)
ist ' > 2

WENDELL R-HELCUISTs r] ‘ase 10, out 76

SENT 5 in, resp ig [rmited -t ized pevsoi-
ANTHONY LERNONS © sooument is proper ed. in. TesPer use ET fo unauthorized perso —

ent is mitted: Tie use.
TEAR = GAMBLING ion outst 1 Te Content may Ok her vt i
(00: Jacks ny your Commitee Gepress approval, of, Meer \ :

rel without the
: ‘ ig ete 7 sro eretiatt
On 2/16/57,(PCI LOUISE SKELTON, Bilot, Mise ) advised
_ on 2/7/87 above subjetta registered into the Travel Ifn Motel,

Biloxi. PCL stated that at time of registracios, above subjects
fumnished the following information on their motel registration
card: |

we [CAE ey

TenpELL 2 (ELCUEST

5 1965 Ford, Florida License Bw20164
Employed, U. S. Government"

ANTHONY ORION 14 1 SS
chet Toben Strost!] LS
Flushing, He. ¥. DE, ‘sPPROX
"Self-employed" Yo PTSIY 2- :
PCE described MELQUEST ae a white male, age 25-30,
height, 5' 5", waight 150 to 160 pounds, dark hair, brow
eyes, medium complexion, and subject LENNON aa a white rale, -..

aye. 25-39, height 6', weizhe 175 pounds, light brown or sandy
hair, Sr or light complexion with freckles. 7

2 - Jacksonville
2 - Hew York

oarbieet :

aned - . ; 7

ta eee b D) 40750 5
[= fe G7 a.

a aa 1a ExcLOsuae —

x

HW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 2

neonates ser



«OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 $010-107~02
- May 1902 EDITION os ae 7
+ GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED“STATES GO > .NMENT Hi
ae SECRE!
-Memoranaum . Set

Im 6-18-97

To =: * DIRECTOR, FBI - paTE: 3/6/67

\ ct u :
oe NW HONG ron O2 2 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO :
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, i

GE ) RELEASE OF CA INFORMATION. '

SUBJECT: yeeatzons WIQH fez] we THSS DOCUMENT. i
ExecpT EnnelecTs : |

|

ReBulet. 2/8/67.

Hong Kong, has (8)
“advised that the situation in Macau has returned to a degree
.of normalcy in which covert inquiries can again be handled in
that colony with no more difficulty than before.

This is submitted for info of Bureau supervisors

2 handlingfChinese] investigative matters.(S :
poek ase oihberar

x Bs

CEP? DECLASSIFY ON: 25

(Y= Bureau

GQ:
(us - Foreign Liaison)

¥ (Hong Kong |() ()

DAY j
“wo. Yo MAR 13 1967

cca

&114

‘ is not for dissemi- aN

5 ‘ ed in response to your request and is no li Van
This docu ie ee Committee, Meee se ip limited 10 oftivfal proceedings bY * oe t
a Committ band the content may not be disclosed to. unauthorized person- ~ : Me
rel wmithout the express approuger

HW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 3


‘ornionat roatno, 10° 8 i s0r0-106
> + Sok ct tro. wo. 27 4 :
: UNITED STATES GO\  NMENT

Memorandum ;
CIA HAS 109 OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR, DATE: March 15, 1967

‘ RELEASE OF Ci8 INFORMATION
irre ~ Mr, Rosen
row Qos a: shroder TS UML bnauteYs- Ux. Malley
[C 2S 1 = Mr. Shroder
Tan - Mr. Thompson
- Mr, Sullivan -
Ae

Th 6-
SUBJECT fi Safes
Y 7 ;OMMUNIST PARTY ENEZUELA JF&,
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN Mr. Trotter

SECRE

janine,

TO Mr JRegen
¢

ons

iCy (CIA
‘TERNAL SECURITY - VENEZ! y
y :
‘ Ni
Communist Party of Venezuela
No investigation is being Conducted by us and appro= GS a
prints and photographs have
Jane Roman of CIA on 3/16/67.

ELA a
_KIDNAPING Size uct
&
dicating the possibility that the
sd &
h
‘priate dissemination has previously been made.
through liaison with CIA, fingere
to SA W. OG, Cregar by Mrs.
material is being made part of this file for possible use in the

This relates to information received from CIA in-
ay attempt to kidnap the child offa CIA employee
At our suggestion, [¢
en obtained and were furnished
This
Photographs and fingerprints are of the

event of a kidnaping.

> nn individuals:

$03",
th th

dentifig

‘gee Woz,

Ws mas ate, Ne 4 SK
> This matter haS been coordinated wi
‘cation Division and it is recommended that this memo and

2 =
2 gétachmernt:.* be sent directly to SA Carl Volker, Room 4125, IB,
& in order that the fingerprints may be promptly classified and _
Be filed. ear :
S35 _.,, Enclosure mpaOLOSUIN APTACB RE Er) , ;
R 7 ae al y,
| eas FDT:emf _. « ST-114
see ae
a Be
ek

HW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 4


TO

FROM

SUBJECT

AM 13%

ge

38
Erad
as

naop Send,

q 243 fo waosddn ssasdza ayy yno

—Uwossadk PAZLoyynDUN. O;
~pmassyp tof 10U sr

fig, sGugpaogpsd pe

BW 50953

BUSS ECRE!
UNITED STATES GC Os °

Memorandum

‘Mr. We C. sullivds * pare: 3/15/67

1 = mrs SutQAGIA6 no OBJECT

'D. J. Brennan, Steff
ian

1 - Mr. BraflBlpASSIFICATION WD/OR—
oo 1 - LiaisonRELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) 1 ~ Ur. PaTINCHHS DOCUMENT. 77"
geet Ay
Na Puls developments in the casé* x
captioned eae ey Bureau file 134(98. a)
Director “Ino ye Soed and more we are ig CIA

about our domestic operations and always to our detriment.
I want this trend stopped. H." (A separate memorandum is
being submitted concerning a new development in the afore-
mentioned case).

'

On 3/15/67, the Liaison Agent met with Richard
Heims, Director, CIA, and took the opportunity to review
the status of relations between FBI and CIA. It was
felt that this was an opportune time to do so in view of
the Director's concern: as expressed above, :

en the two Agencies, He stated that so:
he is irked or disturbed when people outside and inside of
the Government ask the question "How are you getting along
with the FBI?" He indicated that this question is frequently
asked by members of Congress, Helms stated that he
religiously has followed a practice of lucidly and firmly
advising such people that relations are excellent, He

stated that he personally believed that this was true.

FSL4, ede any

The Liaison Agent commented that working relations
are good, but there was an area which might not be getting
proper attention, The Agent stated that there was reason
to be concerned regarding effective coordination on those
cases which are of interest to both FBI,and CIA because there
appeared to be developing an atmosphere. where people in both
Agencies felt that there was now wide-open liberty to conduct.
operations and activities of a joint nature, The Agent wy
stated that he wished to emphasize that such an atmosphere ae
cannot exist and that Mr. Hoover would never condone any Ia *
trend in this direction, The Agent commented that work in
this area had to be very efficiently coordinated and that we
Lin the Bureau were closely serutinig ig? each Situation as it
develops where both Agencies had a *intérest. The Agent
suggested that Mr. Helms might desire to alert be dhe eeeniiay iatioe
subordinates in ‘the Agency on this point. ¢2- :

RECS

FY ON: 25X

ibn
Ssi

ASS
DECLA

SIP: rab
6)

Doclda:32199369 Page 5



ov. 5-22-64)

: FBI
ae 25 Date:. 8/17/67 aoe
Transmit the following i ae § NO OBJECTION TO
os he follo vate can (Fype tm plaintext or code) Oi ERSEITTCATEON AND/OR,
Via AIRTEL : PEL RASE OF qa i AT!
1 (Priority) Wes

34

DIRECTOR, FBI (5-80750) Ke

SAC, WFO (66-2896)

TES

SSNS - Sirwnee 3
1 EMIL R, SVEILIS, the late nignt.
6 International, Washing ton, Dec?
aation in the past, said
hat he overheard
buted. at: least.one Ba

(desk editox’; United P
who..has-furnished. reliable info
that he wished*to advise.this of
comments indicating that CIA had contr

million dollars to. the Nationai Council, of Churches... He
also advised. that.he understood that’ the CIA maintains 2
"safe house at.the Airle House, venton, Virginia.™.. He

the source of the above

was questioned specifically about
that he heard

information andiindicated’ that he believed

this information from individuals connected with the n ey
median put he could not recall the exact identity o these f
individuals. He indicated’that he got the impression aed!
that this information was common knowledge in the news”

field. : 7

ITH 22 fo ponosddy ssasdna one moseres ses

>

The: Bureau may wish to advis
‘channels concerning the-in fox tion

‘ allegedly contributed inoney to the
5 “tsafe house" .at Warrenton,

CIA. by appropriate uaa
the CIA had F pose!
tional, Council of

“Special Agent in Charge’

fl : & # Churci and maintains fe
: ge _ Virgin. not-put in LE
\ x8 because of its end becau:
toms was unable to recall his source of this inf
als $ or vien the information came to his attention...
slo
$/S.
318-8
ele D
jet
f aie :
fo. ate uy :
‘ = Soe A é OF i
ii - : Hl
f Approved: a Sent 4
4

HW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 6


UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum
To 7 MR. J. P. MOHR
: Nw
Foun MR. 1. W. CONRAD
f q
cy }
“'sumécr REQUEST FOR TOUR OF LABORATORY i

_BY TECHNICAL PERSONNEL.OF :
F COCENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) 7

nee cnet

U
Mr. Lon Thomas, Document Examiner for us
to inquire if a tour could be arranged through the_FBI Laboratory for himself
and two of his co-workersMr. Joseph Hall an They have CC.
no specifié problems, but rely wish to visit our facilities priéfly.

Accordingly, tentative arrangements have been made for the requested tou:

| lp.m., March 29, 1967. 7 \ i
; CLASSIFIED BY $068. $ Wee
ACTION: DEGLASSIFY ON: 25x. ,

Unless advised to the contrary, the tour will-be condu ef FE nested.
= : 4 i

ote ls OS. + CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONZTEe

3 LASSIFICATION AND/OR,

oy RELEASE OF CIM INFORMATION
3 IN THIS DOCUMENT.
x

Fore the bentkers

1-Mr. Wick (Att: Tour Room)
1-Mr, W. C. Sullivan (Att: Mr. S. Papich)
1-Mr. Conrad :

(4) IWC:dmg

CONFIDENTIAL

Fi
, Lhis/document is pr i
ation outside pounce ee pees to: yotr request and is not-for dissemt.
your Commiitee and the content may ‘hot D limited to official proceedings oy i

i

\

[: |

vos 9) 9 APR 10 1967" ithout the express approval of ee Bay coset 10 unauthorized person ft
roval of l ¢ |

HW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 7


a
TBrnonas ton wo. 10 :

poo mk t9e3 tortion yy
O8s ot. tre no. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT er
Memorandum

TO Mr D. Je Brennan, | J:

HIVENTIAL _

DeLoach
Mohr

E pate:, 4/4/67

FROM: W oO. Cregar

oe. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY eu)

ALIEN INTERVIEW REQUESTS ~

. Re sonora ndun Stes, to Sullivan dated 3/28/67;
whish instructed the Liaison x fo sul advise appropriate
CiAdrepresentatives of the change in Poca dS alien inters ;
view requests at the Bureau, 7

: On 3/31/67, the Liaison Agent advis.

7 lof the change -in_hi inglalien arrery Eee ce
at I Headquarters. i advised that the overal1C¢.
coordination for handling these requests would be handled -

by the Bureau's Name Check Section under the codrdination:
of Special Agent J. W. Brown.

Inasmuch as CIA occasionally makes. a ‘telephonic ©
request when expedite matters_are involved, Liaison ? f
Agent obtained the names of ee
as the persons ‘who would ca Special-Agent Brown in the
event an expedite matter is involved,’..:CIA is well aware,
that the use of this telephonic request should. be held. to
a minimum and used only at times when*time is of the

essence and the matter is of sufficient: importance. to y ogg
deviate from the normal request ocedures «(C
ALL INFORMATION GoveATRD “ €) Looper
ACTION: HEREIN TS UNCL, Hl : $$03-Litbvel Py)
RHERE SHOWN OT i he:
: The above’ is directed to- the. Name Check Section
for their information and attentions:
. : eee Dl
1 - Mr. Scatterday (J.W. Brown)
1 = Mr. Cotter “ et Donte on: GsdR
1 4 Liaison a
oi = Mr. Papich r 4st
1 ~ Mr, Cregar: Z seo ae si
WOC:rab -) 7." oe ar!

"= (6)

APR "7 1967
This document is prepared én response to yo ‘

aur request and is not for dissemi-

BS $5 L proceedings Ditewas
atside your Committers, Tis use is. limited to official ate
‘ sour C ianaceer oes the content may not be chia to- unauthorized. person- a

nel without the express approval of, the. PBI o~ i.

Gi

SG6APR{ 7196 Voss NAMB

HW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 8
