# 124-10072-10413

## Page 1

124-10072-10413

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10072-10413

RECORD_ SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-24016-863

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 12/20/1963

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: JR, ACT, TRAVEL OUTSIDE US

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/30/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001-

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INCLUDES DIRECTOR, FBI RESPONSE TO SAC, DL

NH 50953

DooId: 32143876

Page 1

---

## Page 2

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

XP2/1197 4883-Pid Mide 10-21 43157K

SUBJECT: Jack RUBY

SP: 4988

20 December 1963

1. A reliable source has furnished this office with a copy

of a communication dated December 16, 1963, received from

cading as follows:

No loc

"After hearing from you of rumors which intimated that

Jack Ruby was a member of the Histadrut Delegation, and after

learning that this was pinpointed to a Delegation of 1955 in which

E. H. Williams participated - I culled the material in the Histadrut

office in New York and I would like to present the facts to you;

S, C

"(L) In the summer of 1955 a delegation consisting of active trade

union people left the United States for a short visit to Israel and

the fistadrut. (P)(4)

"(2) The delegation consisted of the following people:

George Cavender

Harold Gibbons

Jacob Clayman

E. H. Williams

TOT/FA #.

APPRAI #

CIVIL AOD. #

16454

c°.

Frank Winn

Joseph Applebaum

Anthony Ballerini

U/ Rerc/Altu%

Roy Brown

All iNtO

CLASS (5) WrT REMAIN

CLASS PERCION

5892

"(3) Confusion resulting

in present rumors may have been caused by

the fact that on the fame El-Alflight there likewise travélled,

completely on his

own initiative and at his own expense, a man named

200/1342

Nate Stein, head of a

public relations firm from Los Angele

This

14-2401686:

BEGIO-FIA MIPHIE REC- 12

* Representative of the Histadrut in New Yorkor

EC 30.1963

Excluded fem cremail: y

Newcotag and

descerite shen

NH 50953 DocId: 32143876 Page 2

---

## Page 3

10-19-23

BAC, Dallas (44-1630)

SECRET.

Director, TBI (84-21028) - 863

•F=6-12

1/9/03

2040

CIVIL HIGHS

Classified B

Exempt from GDS

#6454

2/1/97

and after loarning that this vas pampolated to a lulerution

of 1955 in which I.Y. Mllies messipatel - 1 alle

mould 1lko to promont the feats to you: (5764)

rade union people left the saito

"(3) To delonation enslatod of the folloutes peeple.

George Confer

10-2163

Massina. ty

9803-pddhyds

Declacaily on: CHOR

57к

I. H. Mlldn

Frank VAn

Seep Alste

Hoy Broun

29177

raintions fira from len Aroles.

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tale. Poor:

Holmes

Gindy

1 - Mr. S. J. Papich (Room 845 RB)

JVE: pab,

see page two for

the note

SECRET,

TELETYPE UNIT L

NN 70953

Doold: 32143876 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Lotter to Saty Datas

RO1

AkAs

SECRET

*(4)

Grog Bardacko who was on that tour romembors Nato Stein

very distinctly:

Ho atates catogorically

• that Nate Stein vis

not such by won plature to pillse is on both i a rilea

Hugo Moratt has informed no that Jacob Clayman,

looking over again the pictures of

that Nate Stein was not Jack Ruby STU

the trip; likewise states

The Neglonal Director of the

Histadrut Canpaign la Los

Angeles, Bernard Jacobson, has confirned that Nato Stein is

listed

in this year's telephone directory in Los

Angeles

under the same address as 1o 1955 (Nate Stein, Public and

Labor Relations Counsol, 426 So: Rexford Drive, Beverly Hills,

Calif

Telephone Ch 1-3950)2

(4)

May I repeat

again that Nate Stein, "hoover he is and

whatever he does, was not invited to lerael by the Histadruly

ts simpler to start a rumor than to quash one.

I do hope.

however,

that the above pentioned facte will

help clear the air,

The above letter

which was received €

on Bureau

informant 100/

I was furnished byLS,

informant to SA S.

S. Papich, Liaisor Section.X, Any future

correspondence concerning this matter should be coordinated

through SA Papich.

Information from a source in Israel

originally alleged that Jack

Ruby had

visited Israel and the

Histadrut, the national Israeli labor organization, with a

group of trade union people from the U.s. in 1950.

The

above is a followup of that

has no merit.

Our investigation does

on eatin vito indicate allegation

and Ruby denies having made such

2

SECRETA

....,

NH 50953 DocId: 32143876 Page 4

---

