124-10328-10030)

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10328-10029
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR SEE TITLE
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE: [Restricted]
DATE: — 09/17/1958
PAGES: 6
5 SUBJECTS :
JOHN SHIMON
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; Not Assassination Related
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/04/1998
| OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO, INC MEMO

val
HW 50953 DocId:32313355

Page 1


V

“aed, i

SAC, HPO ((205~40831 (5)

Director, Fat ((105~-20814)— qg\6
ca 138. Reo. 72 :
GHAR PAROUK DATANY, was

IS = ISRABL “\s)

Reurlet 9-17-58.

Your attention is directed to your file 100-23450

captioned “Union Pilas, IS = Co” The report af SA

Joan Bo Van Btten dated §+3-51 at Washington, De Go, in

that file reflects on @ etx that Richard Townsend

Patton was employed by Carl Marzani in 1947, the year {
that Harzani wes convicted and sentenced for denying v
wembership in the Communist Party. Jt is noted your relet 7
reflects Fatton was subject of aninvestigation by

iad office in 1956 for possession of abscene filmss

n view of derogatory information available regarding
Patton, the Bureau does not feel he is suitable material
for development as on informant and authority is

therefore denied your office to investigate him as a
PSI for the purpose of possibly Géveloping him as a double

agent in this matter. Sureau is armanging for

interview of Isa Sabbagh by another Government agendy
and results will be furnished yous (S)

EH cvg a
7) A L pear & cs

‘ ia
Gover memo Donahoe to Belmont prepared by EEMicbg
9-30-58 re same subj.

We? ue,

30cT 14 1858

MAIL ROOM [J

fgitoman
dy
6. Sullivan

HW 50953 Docld:32313355 Page 2


i oe rn 3 7 ‘ :

TES. GOVERNMENT

oLNRET,
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (f205-208149]@) 9 ie pate: 9/17/58
7 CONTATRED ~..
i noupln, WFO 7105-4083) > t Pa

suayect: [OMAR FAROUK parany) 2)
IS-ISRAEL

Re report’ of SA MALCOLM P, CARR dated 8/22/58 at \
Washington, D.C., which sets forth that on 6/10/58, an
anonymous source advised that subject had in his possession

rough map drawn on a scrap of paper showing directions to \
2008 Bradford)Drive, Annandale, Virginia. _ Also noted on thisCS |
paper was the telephone number( CL 6-3809.'5) 5

WE
The Washington Address Telephgne Directory,, correcte v
to 3/11/58 ,lists(RICHARD “PD. PATTON Jat [20 §) Bradford brive.C.> \

Annandale, Virginia, telephone(CL 6-380

Laz Gs

On 9/8/58 the files of the Crédit Bureau, Incorporated |
Washington, D.C., were reviewed by SE JOSEPH C. WILLIAMS and ee
revealed a report dated 9/24/56 on(RICHARD TOWNSEND PATTON, | G5}. S.
wife, (SHIRLEY, 2008 Bradford Prive, Amfandale, Virginia. i yee
report indicated (@arTon was employed by @yron, Incorporated 5 4
1226 Wigeonsin\ avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C., as a jsound ie \

engineer} and ad been so employed since ®etober, 19507} His SIN
gage was shown as [twenty-six land there were no prior émployments > }
‘or additional ad sses shown for. PATTON.) There was a notation =,
Heer Sy had worked for the/Civil Defense Administratioh ye
insd ay
ws

”
WEQ file G45-33) entitled (RICHARD PATTON, RIcHARDS) :
OFFAR; ITOM" \indicates that WFO was_advised on[7/9/56 byl 5) E

C $3 Gyron Roudabush Byron, Incorporated, that he is caugh PATTON,) 2
easeeer

Shh

in p

av

‘who was employed by him, with an obscene film

Me
CPaTTON was interviewed at that time by SA R 7 HLS) 3.
KURTZMAN and Inspector ROY E, BLICK, Metropolitan- af
Department. He advised that he had taken efi om the ai

(6) desk of another employee, [RICHARD OFFAR} without /OrFaR's) knowing 3

it and said he took it only to run it for his own entertainment, Qi]
: : 4

‘Bureau
-WFO

yi

RBK: sas : a

‘ & REC.

| Them broke ty Akaren : “£
204 itis

ea

HW 50953 DocId:32313355 Page 3


Ww

WFO (208-4085) (6)

PATTON volunteered that he had two more rolls of similar

film in his car, also obtained from OFFAR, and produced those
rolls of film, An examination of all three rolls indicated
they were copies of well known editions of pornographic film.
It had been copied on film belonging to Byron, Incorporated. 63)

OFFAR was also interviewed at that time and said he
had obtained the films from EDDIE REYNOLDS,a former employee
who was then in Tennessee, _ The films were confiscated by
Inspector BLICK and no further action taken. ($

It is noted that Byron, Incorporated, has made several
training films for the FBI and has clearance for similar work
for the Armed Forces. 6)

WFO indices also indicate that WF 942-S* advised on
12/21/57 that JOAN (LNU) (possibly JOAN SABBAGH, former wife of
ISA SABBAGH who has, for some time, resided with MOHAMED HABHIB,
WFO 105-19871 Bufile 105-54127), called SHIRLEY (LNU) at CL 6-
3809, asking directions to her home. She was told the address
_ was 2008 Bradford Drive, and they discuss whetherssomething
JOAN was to pick up would fit in her cars)

WFO indices reflect nothing additional which can be
identified with RICHARD T. PATTON or his wife SHIRLEY )

On 9/9/58 SA KURTZMAN ascertained from Mrs. ADRIAN
BORNEMAN, Secretary to BYRON ROUDABUSH, that PATTON is still
employed at Byron, Incorporated, as a sound technician, is
considered loyal, a good employee an as security clearance
for the classified work done there, i)

(6)(Parton was interviewed at Byron, Incorporated, on
9/10/58" by SAs RICHARD B, KELLOGG and HOWARD FLETCHER, Jr.
He said around 1951 he assisted in the making of a film for ExGe
Byron, Incorporated, for the Arabian erigan Oil Company.
At that time he became acquainted ks MAABBAGH who narrated

the film, _PATTON, BAGH was th employed by VOA inc is
Gee an a: othe American ass Oo" Sat

noted that Ese is pres USI ana”

is wife oi re lop: 7
social acquaintafice with|Mr. and Mrs. G! nd three or more
ears a; met(DAJANY and his wife, poe ta party at the
ABBAG! ome. [He said he believed that at the time he met

DAJANY, DAJANY was still employed at the Jordanian Embassy Axle)

; | ¢

HW 50953 DocIld:32313355 Page 4


GS. ne faa oad with
h ri

wro[ios-aoes \(%) : [es LSERB EAC ANE )y

shortly thereafter, took employment with ‘the {International

ank,\ (It is noted that AJANY Jt ook em Ge wit theCS)p, ,S!

Internationgl Ba: round{September] 1! 1e30 ATTO! ia since (SI)

that time, [DAJANY) d hi ife ve, attende social gathering

(faJana G6 BAG! one ocggsion?
ATTON)}und his wife attended party at BAJANY' ftpartment

on one. occasion about e@ and one half years ago, and he has

stopped in to(DAJANY's xriment two or three times for a FES

during the evening hours. 2 fie said he saw (D (DATANY, around May, C.

1958, just prior tohis,(PATTON' s,) departuré for. alee

Asan EaYa $3

East\to make a film. He said on weiifiers ft DAJANY eval l ye

on rim to take two_gallons of (corn oil\to a friend o'
in [Beirut, Lebanon;} who wanted (the oiljfor a he oily
medicinal purposes’ He said he did deliver [ft (the oil} @ ae Be C53
seen DAJANY] since that time} C383

mentioned party at[DAWABY'S|Ypartment, (PaTTO! aid he Bw 7"
recall no names but recalléd that an inspector oa

captain from (possibly Captain JOSEPH wee

there as mache (bree! fellow who runs the (Colon: ctaurang] in | Yi.
with fbAANy) He said t only other Person he associates
with (DAZANY) is (FENTON MORAN,| a/fwriter and lecturer] from ($_)
Washington, D.C,, who digd sev: weeks ago. Hé said he also
first met [MORAN |through(SABBAGH

party at{ other persons in attendance at the above

@arroy}saia he knows{DAJANY)works at the(International(sJ
Bank]|but knows nothing more about DAJANY' s) job and Has never
disfussed with DAJANY |politics, the(Middle East] or the world(s3

(a8) situation. He said He knows nothing of (DAJANY Ss for afmodelea.

u

and nothing about his wife except that she works for mode1l(
agency.| He said he considers [oasany] aman of good character, cal
knows nothing of a derogatory Reet concerning his morals,

and has seen nothing to indicate th DAJANY| might be engaging (5.1 |

in illegal or unethical activities *

i does not believe DAJANY' knows that, and (DAJANY)has ( C53
never asked him about his job. He “volunteered he would be more
fara lad to cooperate with the FBI in any manner possible if
DAJANYSis engaged in operations not in the best interests of the! ay
United States. He added it would hot be unusual if he were to
call (DAJANY [for a drink or invite him to his home.(S

fearon} sata he has "sooret" clearance by the _US os 3
Navy but

(parrowlinaicated that his wife is employed by thet. C33
{fational Plumbing association ini Washington, D.C. He a1so(S)

BW 50953

Doclda:32313355 Page 5

hats


oO

: - \

fy

7

C

| wro [105-4083 (© CEOREF

! faos-aoes JE SEGRE
indicated- he has made several trips to the Middle East and other
countries in his work for Byron, Incorporated. {

ground investigation concerning PATTON. On completion of the
inquiry, WFO will consider requesting PATTON to intensify his
association with DAJANY in an effort to learn something of his
activities.. PATTON will also be considered as a possible
intermediary ,in the event such a person can be utilized in
this matter (2) i

REQUEST OF THE BUREAU wy

eement with the

UACB, WFO contemplates conducting additional back- |

(2) It is also requested that the Bureau request the C~
Department of State to have ISA SABBAGH interviewed
concerning DAJANY. It is noted that PATTON :
indicated that SABBAGH and DAJANY apparently had i
a “falling out" after SABBAGH's wife left him. |
PATTON believed the reason was that SABBAGH felt ;
that Mr. and Mrs. DAJANY took JOAN SABBAGH's side
and may have n instrumental in her decision |
to leave nim.('$) . :

SeOKEL

HW 50953 DocId:32313355 Page 6


JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: —124-10328-10030
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR SEE TITLE
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE: [Restricted]
DATE: 08/20/1959
PAGES: 25
SUBJECTS :
JOSEPH SHIMON
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : . Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; Not Assassination Related
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/04/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : RPT

vol

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 1


<< 3 a
Report For
Foleo" "gov 882: 55) J)

e

Lee MJ

ING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD, fonetae |

one = =
WASHINGTON FIELD WASHINGTON FreLD | AWE 20 89) Go srys9oca I
2 OF CASE REPORT MADE BY mics PED BY

'HANGED @ (9 MALCOLM P, CARR “p AIC
UK DAJANY, aka
Ns oh . | Omar Hassen Sidgi Dajany, sniipdrstcmi rainaanaa ita :
K & on Saget
u )) 24,

INTERNAL od - eee
(ACCOUNTING INVESTIGATIO; )

a7 Subrne
Wai”

ae
x

ik

nN ' REFERENCE

BAlet, dated 7-2-59,
NYlet, dated 7-22-59,

8-1-59.
Buairtel, dated 7-31-59.

Mrs. [Dasany t

wi iy The title of this investigation is being” thon ed. te”
| include the additional name of(QMAR HASSEN SIDGIUDA. jas oo
A out in (Saed Department communi éatron™dated [2-18-59 a
o
cee

Report of SA MALCOLM P, CARR, dated 6-19-59, 3

Wroairtels, dated 7-24-59, 729-59, and

: pe
a {apunnisteative DATA GM

In regard to the bank accounts of subject and?

LG

SD

iy
3-New_York
; (1{f05-19

aire ee sie [ossoey

REQ. REC'D —2———— :
DATE. FORW. rere ow

\ wow So ST li &
SPERTY OF FBI- his sees Iganed to you by the FBI, and neitheritnor tents aré'to be distributed tatu which loaned}
has be

i

HW 50953 DocId:32313356 Page 2


om Gone

Mr. THADDEUS C, COX, Vice President, vaton SOGCRET)

Company, Washington, D. C,, (name to be concealed if
information disseminated) made available to SA ROBERT E,
TORRENCE, on 7-3-59, the following information from the
account of Mrs. DAJANY at the Union Trust Company: G)

Balance as of 6-26-59 $454.31

Deposits 34.64 (5)
Total gaescos | AIC
Withdrawals + $488.95 =
Balance as of 7-3-59 5s 00 be

---- Mr, COX is the proper person:to whom a subpoena
should be directed in the event these records are to be
subpcenaed. There were no checks of interest in the above

account and since data above does not materially add to the
KAAS)

investigation it is not included in the body of the report.

On 6-26-59, Mr. JOHN C, McCORMACK (name to be
concealed if utilized) Vice President, RiggsNational..
Bank, made available to SA TORRENCE the following inf tion
from Riggs National Bank.concerning account of aubject:(3)

Balance as of 5-20-59 _$ 144.89 :
Deposits 2112.08 GAG!
Total Saa5e.97
Withdrawals 2205.55

Balance as of 6-26-59 3" oraz a

Mr. McCORMACK is the proper perso:: to whom to issue
a subpoena. The account failed to reveal any checks oi
interest, the pattern being numerous checks being cashed
at International Bank for Reconst tion and Development
and McReynolds Liquor Store. & (‘Ss

On 7-20-59, Mr. McCORMACK made available to
SA TORRENCE the following from subject's account: )

Balance as of 6-26-59  $ 51.42

Deposits 1267.95 S
Total SISIo. 37 KP
Withdrawals 1115.33 / :

Balance as of 7-20-59 5 Wt0t

~A-/
COVER PAGE

ET Jy

HW 50953 DocId:32313356 Page 3


¢F0 [i0s-aoss7 RA eee |
Ezy

ed anes

Again the pattern was the numerous checks being
cashed at the ational Bank and McReynolds Pharmacy
and Liquor. q an

It ig to be noted that these records reflected a
check dated 7-14-59, was made payable to the St. Moritz
Hotel gf New York City in the amount of $29.28. It should
be noted too, that in records of the subject's new account
at the Union Trust Company there is a check dated 7-13-59,
made payab the St. Moritz Hotel in the amount of fifty
dollars. FRG) cat

In regard to the serial numbers of currency

being deposited by the subject at Riggs National Bank,

a number of serial numbers of subject's deposits have been

obtained and have been made a part of the instant file.

As of 6-30-59, however, this practice has been discontinued
Fisasmuch as New York has disclosed that payments to DAJANY x)

were being made by bank money orders and in some cases from

the Israeli United Nations account In the event a comparison

of currency is desired in the future, this procedure can

accomplished from the information already in the file. (Z)

Bureau attention is directed to letter from
Office of Security, Department of State, dated 6-25-59,
attaching the report of Agent E, H. WIDDIFIELD of the
State Department, dated 6-13-59. It was indicated that a
photograph of DAJANY had been exhibited to DONALD L, SNOOK
of Tripoli (no date). SNOOK was said to positively have
identified the subject as being the person he had furnished i
information on previously. In this regard, Office of
Security reports of WIDDIFIELD, dated 2-9-59, and 4-10-59, - ~)
set out,information concerning OMAR ATJANY and TUR. WW) Lo J:
__FAROUKNDAJANI which were obviously not i: tical with the ada oe
subjec Astant case. DAJANY has been continuously i
residing in the U. S. since 1951.. Although SNOOK identified aR
a photograph of subject, he did not specifically indicate
\ with whom subject was identical. It appears that he does
| not know the subject and the information furnishe: OG)
(J

is not being included in the body of the report.

Spot fisurs conducted by SA CARR on 7/15,29,
| and 30, 1959, in the vicinity of the International Bank
! and the Roger Smith Hotel failed to disclose whereabouts
| of subject, On each instancesubject's car was parked in
} the lot wave used by hin, however the subject was not

observed. v
~B= t
0 -
fsb #2 foe Fey

HW 50953 DocId:32313356 Page 4


a
Cc)

f 150 {hos-aoss J pry?) 4
Regarding the women contacted by the subject [' ASECRE. ai

who have not been interviewed to date, it is now felt *
since the interview with the subject, an interview with

| INGRID RICHTER and ANNA WALDRON is no longer necessary.
The purpose of these contacts is obvious since the
interview of subject. iy) Ws)

For information of:the Bureau, on 8-1-59, subject,
without prior contact by WFO, was approached at his apartment.
where he was requested to come to WFO for the purposes of
interview and gaining his assistance. Subject, who was
his pajamas, felt the interview could be done at the(A=
apartment, however since Mrsz7 aint ted in the bedroom
located just off the living r ject was advised Red
that an interview did not appear "to -be possible under Ki
such circumstances, Subject was reluctant to come to (am:
office because of numerous things he had to do preparing a
for his trip on '8-5-59. He suggested a booth in the
Washington Circle Drug Store with which he was familiar
and arrangements were made for him to meet Agents there |
in ten minutes. A portion of the interview was conductedy 7
in complete privacy at the drugstore for approximately
thirty-five minutes and at which point it was made
obvious to the subject that. he must look at photographs

, i of persc;, he called (ph) and person believed to
\

aA be DAVID] ‘hereafter, the interview was con =
SEAR mo. RCA ea BEM Mie
ect indicated that he “would keep 118

Ss
with interviewing Agents in complete confidence and would
report promptly any further contacts made to him by persons
he believed to intelligence operators. DAJANY's accounts
of his contact: th other than known Israeli intelligence
operators were obviously true owever his account of °
contacts with M AN) “and ZUTA were just as false :
and fabricated. Repeated emphasis on the obvious untruths
on his part merely brought more de It it appears
subset is_a pathological liar. a / (6 > amt

For the above reasons, WFO does not recommend

further contact with the subject for the purpose of
developing him as a double agent or a source of information. Oo

| ! COVER corms pion} vy |

x

HW 50953 DocId:32313356 Page 5



CO

Ta
\

(re [fos-soss] PNP)

INFORMANTS fs “*

Identity of Source Location of Original Information
T-1 is
(er 1046-S* \S\
WF T-2 is Instant report, Page 7

THADDEUS C. COX,
Vice President,

i Union Trust Company, @
(A

Washington, D. C.

NY T-1 is 105-4083, Serial 274, Pages 8 and 15,
Mrs. GLADYS RAYMOND,

Records Unit,

Chemical Corn Exchange

Bank, Two Broadway,

New York City

F Te. 134460 Sub roa
Carey® Go sup A} 7S}

Careful consideration has been given to the
sources concealed and T symbols were utilized only in those

instances the identities of the sources must be
concealed. w

: wns U4

NEW YORK DIVISION

\ . AT NEW YORK CITY .
a: wu. at the(st. uorstifote, gory KS
: ayaNy) was a guest there one Ning

cs3Ge ),, if being noted that two 7-18} were
given to that hotel by(DAJANY({in the RAL 3 CS.
! of $29.28 and $50.00, réspectively.

! 2. If subject was a guest there, will Rice = Pe

any telephone contgcts made from subject's
room during visit fin an effort to ascertain,

if he was in contact with/{known Israeli
intelligence agent

WER PAGE einen 3 “ : KW !

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 6


Ne ce

taal

| fe |
a 28 (Sf secRerze"

AT WASHINGTON, D. C. a
oe 7a a
~ 1. Will continue to monitor bank accounts o:
subject at Riggs and Union Trust Company

2. Will place stop notice with INS to be advised a
of subject's return to the U. S. (x%/ id :
3. Will consider an interview with Capt. JOSEPH si eh
‘ SHIMON, MPD, to ascertain circumstances of I
his association with the subject: Determin oe
if subject has requested SHIMON to, chec! ‘or.
- a a "tap" on subject's telephone .(/ Ii

. Will ascertain from(ELDWIN A, STRONG, 2045)
oF, North Utah|\St., Arl: ‘ton, Va., circumstances
sae l of his meeting with subject. ¢

Xx 5. At (State Department] will, through contact Cs}
@) with the(Israeli Desk Officer, attempt to CS.
Pa obtain more information concerning | iccomats
of the{Custodian of Enemy Property in C5
Israe: determine in fact if subject and

his family are receiving money fir ental
of property owned by subject. 8)

The report is being classified "Secret" in view
of the information concerning the funds of the account of the
(israeli delegation to the United Nations, Account One, jknown (a>)
to be used for(intelligence payments.) In event of down C$
grading, report and evaluation memc “Should be classified
"Confidential" since it reveals FE. investigation of a .
(employee of an intexnational organization} Report is s3
additionally classified "Confidential" since it tends to
reveal FBI investigation of (foreign diplomatic officials] cs3
and since data reported by T-1, WF T-2, and WF T-3,
could reasonably result.in identification of informants
of continuing value and compromise future effectiveness

thereof, gy i

OVER PAGE

f SiCRELES) |

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 7



Y x
(Fe) dig ron: —
MALCOLM P, CARR Ofe: Washington, D, ]

AUG 20 sod
bcoeie hii Field { 105-4083 Bureau

ae INTERNAL SECURITY -. ISRAEL ax(e
& ) ACCOUNTING INVESTIGATION,

Synopale: KLARA RAFTERY ,' unemployed, met subject on
Mires¢ on only. He name and_ phone number were:
furnished subject by former tidhystudent, a

license ‘plates for Jaguar and Plymouth Station
@agon obtained, Information furnished by USA
SABBAGH, TA)employee, in February, 1959,

talyjenroute to (Jerusalem, Jordan) via ship on

Cleat ation receiyed subject to depart/8-5.
I

women purely social and work never_discussed.

: occasions for assisfance, He told SHIMON he -
i + G }) felt his (@AsANY' asphons was tapped" and was

of opinion that a "tap" may have been found
hip with SHIMON not friendly

DAN jane ‘Alwhich he.identified as(BENNY
ph) and person iptrod Sin Ge oO.

a ere for the purpose of assisting latter wi
i | thesis by MOURAD on economics, Sn introduced

This document contains nelther recommendations nor conclusions of any kind. It Is the property of the FBI, and Is a loon to yo

we

Government |bu: thought him to be a student (ot a

‘s SECRET

oneC$)
ndc $I

meetings merely social. Registrant” of Maryland

Cs)

revealed hé Was social acquaintance of subject.
59 for Cs
cs}

"home leave" granted nternational Bank.j C5)
} Subject, interviewed(8- 9, stated contacts tad)

eet Many of them did not know,his name.|6)Subject
DO claimed that Capt. JOSEPHOSHIMON, Of MPD, was a

hg ioe personal friend whom he consulted on a number of

abject denied knowing/RAFAEL MEDAN } Zs)
by name. Subject shown photogra) nee f

\Cs
on it respectively. He met /MOURAD)in aS
941

6 Gnd 1947 and approxima thrée years ago,
sontasts with subject by (MOURAD commenced, subjeotC$.
did not .know(i0l to bezemployed by the (israeli

| i university in New York City. Contacts with, wouRad)&]

pe

HW 50953 DocId:32313356 Page 8

)


‘
a

r
\
c~
ee

K1F0 Eee 6) : # SE CR ER, @

|
|
(Bim by MOURAD was believed by subject to be a |
Student and from Baltimore, Maryland, whom he ; l
saw only twice. Subject never received money

from either individual and never received money

from any Israeli at any time. He never discussed

with them any information which could conceivably

be of intelligence value to Israelis. Subject

stated he could not tell the true story until

after he returned from his--trip where he could

get permission of his family in Lebanon. He
Teg would be a story which "will make you

h

Laugh |W) (5) 36!"

{ ota: AT WASHINGTON, D. C. 4 g [& : ;

Information was previously furnished which disclosed
that Mrs. KLARA RAFTERY, 1219 North Taft Street, Arlington,
Virginia, had been observed in the company of DAJ. on May 21,
1959. The purpose of the contact was unknown. GA

On June 10, 1959, Mrs. KLARA RAFTERY, Apartment Two,
1219 North Taft Street, Arlington, Virginia, was interviewed
by SAs MALCOLM P, CARR and DONALD HOETING. She advised she
did not know an OMAR DAJANY, however, when she had an opportunity
to see a photograph of subject she recalled that she had seen

DAJANY on one occasion only. Mrs. RAFTERY ised that .
° approximately three, weeks ago she receive A. fedeppone eall wet
from an individual who said that one,, at understoo De

was an Egyptian student, had furnished €0 © the caller RAFTERY's’
name and phone number. The caller desired to see and ta
with her. A meeting was agreeable with Mrs. RAFTERY. and ~*
arrangements were made for the caller to pick her up at 2: we, TA
p.m. A short while after she received another call from thig=-~—._" |
same individual who reported that he had an appointment and,
would be a bit late. The man, whom she knows now as DAJ.
after seeing a photograph, picked her up in his personall,
owned car from which point they went to the Hot Shoppe at
Roslyn, Virginia, a on finding it closed crossed the stree

toa drugstore . (%)

She advised that they were together approximately
thirty minutes during which time they spoke about current
events and the fact that she had no girl friends. DAJANY
told her. he had lots of girls to whom he would like to
introduce RAFTERY. She stated WS, a very pleasant meeting i

with DAJANY but purely social.¥

2-50)"

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 9


(0 [ios-aoes_ | 2) x ;
{

DAJANY returned Mrs. RAFTERY tc her residence< and

she has not seen him since that time nor has he called

her, RAFTERY felt that she must not bave impressed DAJANY
because of his failure to contact her again, YC)

In connection with ADEL, RAFTERY referred to an
address book and stated the name was spelled ABDEL L, GARHI,
whom she understood was an Egyptian student of economics in
some school in the Washington, D. C. area. She had met
GARHI at the Omar Khayyam Restaurant, however she has not
- geen this individual fox a couple of years. RAFTERY recalled
that DAJANY told her that ADEL had returned to Egypt but
did not advise her at what time he had left the country. OKANS)

On November 28, 1958, WF T-1 advised that one !
ADEL GARHI was known to Colonel AHMED KAMAL, Military Attache
at the Embassy of the United Arab Republic (UAR). The
informant said that Colonel KAMAL had requested Doctor
HUSSEIN SELIM, the Minister ut the UAR, provide a job for
GARHI who was an Egyptian student studying in Washington
and whose financial condition was quite bad. It appeared
that the Egyptian Government had ceased payments for :
GARHI's scholarship. Doctor SELIM was to make an attempt i
to assist GARHI./<) |

Previous investigation in this matter has
revealed that on May 19, 1959, DAJANY met an unidentified
girl at 25th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W.. The :
girl was “tanding beside a gray Jaguar, ai omobile bearing
Marylanc license plates KD90-22. BAK) AK C

It is also to be noted that on May-23, 1959,
investigation disclosed subject met an unidentified girl
at the Hot Shoppe, lst.and Washington Streets, Alexandria, nf

Virginia. This girl was observed to drive a cream colored
al ee” wagon bearing PE be OAL) LAINE 13-56
\ BP,
Goo0ns Boke GFAP in June 29, ROT eee rN ward a V2 SULLI wales,
Maryland, was advised by Miss BERNICE WOODS, Clerk,
(Department of Motor Vehicles, that Maryland license mana (BK Beep” 4
as registered to MARK EUG! (ALDRON and his wife, ANNA
ZARSWALDRON, 6910 Brinkley Road, S. E., Oxen Hill; | Ve Mpa:
STRES fe onsas County Washington “Tiis License ¥ A

prince Georges..County.,..Washington,,D.__( “This license w:
issued to a 1959 Plymouth Suburban station Wagon. yee

§ -3- 3 g)' Eee

i

\e

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 10



\" "pertinent to this investigation, &

KD90~22 was issued to JUSTIY{FUNKHOUSER, 901 Polk Avenue
Hagerstown, Maryland, for a 1959 Jaguar roadster. & /5)

No operators license could be located for
FUNKHOUSER, however ANNA CHASZER was issued operators
license A680994, in which-she is described as white,
female, five feet seven inches, one hundred and forty
pounds, born August 27, 1925. Her husband, MARK EUGENE
WALDRON, issued operators license A553683, was described
as white, male, five feet eleven inches, on undred and

eighty-five pounds, bor, HEE AON fe)
In ee with| JUST KHOUSER, on July 15,

1959, IC ARTHUR EDWARD WARNER Caused a Search to be made of
the records of the Credit Bureau, Incorporated, Washington,
D. C. These records contain a credit report dated February 13,
1959, at Hagerstown, Maryland. His address was listed as
Longmeadow, Apartment 7C, Hagerstown, Maryland. His
employment was listed as president and part owner of the
Victor Products Company, Hagerstown, Maryland. It was
indicated that he was separated from his wife, RUTH C.

OUSER. These records contain sgn alata

(2)

On July 15, 1959, IC WARNER was made available
a credit report dated November 13, 1956, concerning
MARK WALDRON, whose wife was listed as ANNA WALDRON,
6910 Brinkley Road, S, E, His employment was listed
with the Mount Vernon Publishing Company, where he had
been employed as a printer for fourteen years. His wife's
employment was listed as secretary at Riggs National Bank,
15th and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W., as a secretary for the
past thirteen years. These records contained no additional
pertinent information concerning ANNA or MARK TALDROX (5 GY

On July 16, 1959, SE JOSEPH C, CREEDEN caused a
check to be made of the records of the Metropolitan Police
Department (MPD). These records contained no records of
JUSTIN FUNKHOUSER or MARK or ANNA WALDRON; at all times
an indefinite number of unidentified rggords are out of
file and not available for review. & (5)

fF wf
a :

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 11


_ cena Ce ry
aera Ga : rant

: fre ffos-so83.} a) .

Previous investigation in this matter has reveale; a
that in June, 1958, information was furnishec Veeco SER
indicating that the subject was acquainted with iaey Gagne Ae hey
an employee pf t: United States Information Agency, (USIA)
abreat. Pr, w) Le i. G

i yy) t CHE:

C7
ALL UO LASS — WA
On Fébruary 27; 1959, the Office of Security,
Department of State, made available a report dated
February 18, 1959, which disclosed that ISA SABBAGH was
interviewed at Jidda, Saudi Arabia, concerning DAJANY c)

iN

SABBAGH stated he is not acquainted with
OMAR FAROUK DAJANY but is acquainted with OMAR HASSEN
SIDGI DAJANY, approximately thirty-four years of age,
who is employed by the World Bank, Washington, D. C.
SABBAGH stated DAJANY is married to an American girl
named BETTY who is employed by the United States Government
in Washington, D, C, .SABBAGH stated that DAJANY is fair
complexioned, light brown eyes, brown hair, and is
Jordanian. He attended American University in Beirut, a
Lebanon, and has a Ph.D from a Washington, D. C. university
in 1957. SABBAGH stated he has been well acquainted with
DAJANY since 1954, SABBAGH said DAJANY is socially charming,
-has--a ready wit, and fancies himself as a social butterfly. |
In 1957, DAJANY's wife asked for a divorce, but this did not
matetialize The two, according to SABBAGH, have been reconciled Lo4X)

SABBAGH stated that DAJANY would often gloat about
his friendship with the late King ABDULLAH of Jordan and the
present King, HUSSEIN. He said DAJANY had been second in
command at the Jordanian Embassy in Washington, D. C. up to
1953, when he resigned to join the World Bank. At the time
of DAJANY's resignation, there was cause for some gossip with
some saying he was discharged but DAJANY denied this saying
that it was proposed to recall him to Jordan. SABBAGH said
that DAJANY reported that he refused because he was planning
on furthering his education in Washington and therefore resigned, :
SABBAGH said that DAJANY expresses fondness for the United
States because of DAJANY's social acceptability, his American
friends, and comforts of the United States. SABBAGH said
DAJANY had been critical of policies of the United States

| in the Near East, éspecially in connection with the

| Palestine question, . bit ie was no less critical of the Arab
policies at the time of the Palestine issue. SABBAGH

y considered DAJANY the reserve Arab nationalist whose American
training appeared to make him less vietriolic than many of
his nation. He is reported to admire NASSER (President of

the VAR) (9) (¢) ;
PE Cerone

x

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 12


120 (fos-s00s7) gM) : |
we A bi,

SABBAGH stated that DAJANY has not a few "Jew hn
friends in the United States and is not "anti-Jewish" as such.
DAJANY's father, HASSAN SIDGI DAJANY, was a prominent
Palestinian who was assassinated shortly after the war, accused
of being a British "stooge", DAJANY, according to SABBAGH,
told him that the American Department of State at the time
suspected him of pro-Soviet leanings and that DAJANY denied
the charge that he had been observed at some date visiting
the Soviet Legation in Beirut, DAJANY is also conscious of
having been seen with his wife attending social functions
at the Soviet Embassy, however, DAJANY claims his name would
still be on the ‘register of the Soviet Embassy from the days
when he was an officer of the Jordanian Embassy. SABBAGH said
that although he could not say that DAJANY was actually loyal
to the United States "from a legalistic view point, (indeed his
not being a citizen of the United States saved him from such
expected loyalty) he would say that he would not harm the
United States' interests for the sake of the Soviets. Insofar
as he is a staunch Arab first, he might harm the United States'
interests in a negative way, that is, by not leaning over
backwards to advance such interests if he thought they conflicted
with the Arab interests." Gt) «€)

~~ DAJANY was said to be "well connected" in Washington

‘and New.York, with one of his friends of long standing, Doctor
RALP) CHE of the United Nations. «&)
sais cs

On June 25, 1959, the Office of Security, Departmen
of State, reported that SABBAGH had been shown a photograph
of the subject of this investigation and that SABBAGH identified
OMAR HASSEN SIDGI DAJ. as being identical with the subject of
this investigation, 1S)

On May 20, 1959, NY T-1 made available a personal
money order issued by the branch of the Chemical Corn 7
Exchange Bank at which an account entitled "Delegation of
Israel to the United States, Account Number One" is maintained.
One money order was as follows: 6)

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 13


r
|

e

C;

fo oun i

Issue Date
Payee

Money Order No.
Amount

Maker

Address

Endorsement

Bank cleared or
deposited

. : On June 15, 1959, NY T-1 made available the following
money order:

Issue Date
Payee

Money Order No,
Amount

Maker

Address

Endorsement

Bank cleared or
deposited

sts f SECRET |

International Bank for Reconstruction
and. Development.
A139298

$2C0 .00

OMAK DAJANY

2514 K St., N. W.,
Washington, D. C. penetnety
OMAR DATANY, stamped for deposit
to the credit of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development ;
Account B.

American Security and Trust Company,
Washington, D, C,, 5-14-59.

5-20-59

International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development.

A139500

$200.00

OMAR DAJANY

2514 K St., N. W.,

Washington, D. C.

OMAR DAJANY, stamped for deposit
to the credit of the International }

4

Bank for Reconstruction and Development’,

Account B,
American Security and Trust Company,
Washington, D, C., 5-28-59.

On July 17, 1959, WF T-2 made available information

from a local Washington, D, C, bank disclosing that Mrs. DAJANY aH
had closed her account at the bank and that a new account in the
name of OMAR DAJANY, 2514 K Street, had been opened on June 30,
1959, in the amount of $805.50. During the period of June 30,
to July 17, 1959, DAJANY made withdrawals of $793.38, the total
as of July 17, 1959, being $12.12, .It is to be noted from this
above account that on July 13, 1959, DAJANY made a check payable
to the St. Moritz Hotel, New York City, in the amount of. $50.00.
It is also to be noted that the new account was started with a

| deposit made from the "proceedin, a loan", the details of
which have not been otermined {AAS : :

Fy, Aeoeppenae

These above records cannot be made public without the
issuance of a subpoena duces tgou, n connection with data
reported by NY T-1 and WF T-2
£-7-

| £ SECRELA

—= a

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 14


van
Ge ci

Gem finn A {Steere

On July 22, 1959, Mrs. KAY WHALEN, formerly the manager —
- of the apartment dwelling in which the subject presently resides,
- advised that Mrs. DAJANY had reported to her on that date a

they were departing the United States for Paris, France, on
August 5, 1959, via the "SS Liberte" for three months' leave.

On July 29, 1959, WF T-3 advised that DAJANY will depart
from the United States at New York City on the "SS Liberte" on
August 5, 1959, for Italy enroute to Jerusalem (Jordan) on a
trip, which will be in connection with "home leave" granted by
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Mrs.
DAJANY will accompany the subject, DAJANY is scheduled to leave
Cherbourg, France, on November 13, 1959, on the "Liberte" if he
cannot get a reservation on an Italian line leaving Genoa the
last week in October, 1959, to return to the United States.

Further information concerning the itinerary of the
subject is not known to WF T-3. 6)

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 15


+. Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
rou SAC, WFO (205-4085) 5) pate: 8-10-59 ¢: +°
FROM : SA MALCOLM P, CARR

~ SUBJECT: OMAR FAROUK DAJANY, aka
Omar Hassen Sidgi Dajany 6)
INTERNAL SECURITY - ISRAEL

i
jugus t 1) 1959, fDasany) was interviewed py Cs
SAs waLcoLa Pe AER and RUBENSTEIN prior to which(DAgany) C$] |
was advised that statements made by him were voluntary on his
part and that he was not being compelled to make any statements.
He was advised. that he had the right of counsel and that any,
statements made by hin. could be used against him in court.

In regard to his contacts ‘with United States’ Gov at
AJANY (furnished following information: REL.

sy Des

employees, i
|
H
SERVICES... ADMINISTRATION. (esa |
|
i

FAS ANY Joni ‘hé hag known (Rosiyn SALUS|for two or three
years, seeing hér first at (McReynolds, 18th av éJs reets,; N..We
He stated he is socially acquainted: only. with M¥s.[SALUS} but would 3)
like to know her-better; He said he.has found her remote:.and: cool
to him and tha{..at-:no- time has he discussed. with her her..employment.
In fact, DAJANY) did not’ know her employment except that she wast S2
employed, 2 I building at 18th and F Streets, N, W. “His know. e
U;

of Mrs,(SALUS|has been ‘gained from seeing her at/McReyno is sitting/$
and talking ath her- over a 8 awich: wand a"coke,. i

ub;
first met her a avers Streét, N where both resided for a
while, Héieharaeterizedher as a "nice kid" and one from whomhe
. gets great pleasure in being with. He said he sees her for lunch, and |
has taken her to the horse races with him inasmuch as she shares
his joys and his sorrows. He has never discussed héer work with
her ‘at any time-and-aside from h KO at. the Navy oe

Bee (wen sor 0 several years “haying C2,
8

he has no idea.what she does.

as met her on two occasions only and does "a0kC5)

know where she" mployed, He said he is ‘not particularly interested
in her as a woman ane jhas never talked to her about her work, He i
has her phone number Dut has not seen or ‘talked to. her ‘for a) long
period of time. sf

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 16


§ "eo [fo 4089] ed)

ISA¢SABBAGH,

SECRET

UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA)

DAJANY last saw SABBAGH in Beirut,-Lebanon in’ February,
1959, at which time the subject was visiting there in connection
with a trip made on business for the International Bank.
According to DAJANY, SABBAGH told him that he was an Assistant
to the American Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, however DAJANY
questioned the title si DAJANY has never heard of such a
position. He conside ‘SABBAGHj and his wife, JOAN, as purely
social acquaintances” a though at one time in 1954 he teamed
up with SABBAGH in ‘making a broadcast to the Middle East for
the benefit of the International Bank and the Voice of America
(VOA). DAJANY admires SABBAGH for his knowledge of the Arabic |
language but has found him tiring and uninteresting since .
SABBAGH is always nagging, is dissatisfied with his promotiors,
and is dissatisfied with the World in general. He said he duvs
not correspond with SABBAGH a nger and is not acquainted
with SABBAGH's assignment. (5)

DONALD L. SNOOK Aw)
ABROAD

DAJANY believes that he has met SNOOK once only. 1
He said he seems to recall that ISA SABBAGH, on going abroad, :
left his car with DAJANY and told DAJANY that in the event 1
SNOOK asked to use the car the request should be granted. i
DAJANY believes that SNOOK had called him and had taken the
car. He can recall no further conversation with SNOOK other
than the above. cd :

Regarding other »nersons with whom DAJANY has been
known to be in contact prey; ly, the subject furnished .
the following information;-“"(@)

Mr. GEORG! ES | a Gh)
DAJ. ‘stated that he and BARNES have been close a
personal friend: since .250, having first met him in

Jerusalem, Jordan, wuere BARNES was associated with the International '
Truce Organization. He said BARNES later went with the {
Unitec Nations Security Council and then to the International 7

Co-operation Administration, and is now associated with Kenmore | |
Associates, a public relations firm having offices in Washington

and New York. DAJANY said that his friendship with BARNES |
continues on a social basis. mse i

foo. ¥9!" SE CREL

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 17


|
(eee

qr (i0s-aoa3_] ay

~)

avai ;
G

{ia watpron sasonon ORE) fal rm Te

DAJANY did not know WALDRON by name but recalled
that he had met someone with a station wagon and advised that
this, like all of his ot. contacts with women, have been for
purely social reasons. WS

RUTH C,. FUNKHOUSER
(Believed to be the driver of a gray Jaguar with
“Waryland License KD90-22— 3)

DAJANY advised that he did not know RUTH FUNKHOUSER
put is acquainted with INGRID RICHTER who, until recently,
resided at the Washington Circle Apartments, 2430 Pennsylvania
Avenue, N, W., and who drives a gray Jaguar. He explained
that this automobile was given to RICHTER by JUSTIN FUNKHOUSER :
whom he does not know personally. He advised that Mrs. DAJANY '
had met Miss RICHTER and had told her about the possibility of
employment at the Gaslight Club as a waitress. RICHTER took
the job there but gave it up shortly thereafter because she
was not allowed to date patrons..of the club.. Her employment
is. not known at present by DAJANY. He explained his associatio:
with her is purely social and for love of beautiful women. aoe

CATHERINE WRIGHT,
ay ace, N. E.

\ i
CLARE HAWKINS, oye)
T700_U Street, N. W. :

HELEN SMITH i
Bid Division Avenue, N. E,

DAJANY claimed that he did not know the above girls 1
by their surname but recalls, he knew of some "Negro girls" {
with given names as above. ie stated that he met these girls CX}
and others through DIDIER RAGUENET, formerly Third Secretary
at the French Embassy, whom DAJANY stated "was fond of Negro
women" DAJANY said he knew them socially but saw them
infrequently and the purpose being to satisfy his sexual desires.

In regard to girls in general, DAJANY said some of the
girls he meets he knows by their given name or their surname;
on occasions, however, many of them are not known to him at all
by name. He summed up his association with women by saying that
women were his only weakness, that he loved beautiful women and
abhorred ugly ones. He said he has always " fter" women and
will always do it until the day he dies. ied

_ see

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 18


z

“a stamuvr fg Li a

AAH a number of years and considers
him a personal friend, DAJANY said SAAH no longer:runs the
Desert Inn but operates the Iron Gate Inn; is believed to also
have some interést in another women's apparel shop. DAJANY
advised he has borrowed money from SAAH on numerous occasions
put to date he is no longer indebted to him. He said that

SAAH has never requested that he furnish any information,
neitherhas he spoken with or furnished to SAAH information ‘Ss /
which could be construed to have any intelligence value, <

Hiner seca (war) 3)

AJANY reported no social contact with--ALLOUNI aside
from seeing him at diplomatic functions in Washington. DAJANY
said ALLOUNI is not interested in other women. They have no
common interest, and for that reason he does nox consider him

a close friend (
@

DAJANY described him as an Egyptian whom he knows
quite well, both having attended American University in
Washington together, DAJANY has helped ALAM in the use of
the English language in a thesis which ALAM had been preparing.
He stated that his association with ALAM until the latter's
marriage, had been close but now they have drifted apart.
DAJANY recalled that on one occasion ALAM gave DAJANY money
to give to someone in the Middle East and because of an t
emergency, DAJANY had spent part of the money. ALAM insisted ™
on the return of the money sooner than DAJANY had contemplated
and DAJANY and ALAM went together to one of the banks and
obtained a loan in ordex for DAJANY to repay ALAM, He said

at no time has he ever received information from ALAM which
could be construed to be of any intelligence value.

MAHMOUD ROUSAN, G
FORMERLY MINISTER AT THE JORDANIAN EMBASSY

DAJANY said that when ROUSAN came to the-Jordanian |
Embassy, DAJANY was ROUSAN's superior, ROUSAN being the
Military Attache and DAJANY the First Secretary. Later
ROUSAN was recalled to Jordan and was involved in some
difficulty, however he ae to the United States with

the rank of Minister. @
foe } a”

Zan
GUAR)... J -

Doctor ABDEL EACUF ABU,

+

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 19


if we0 Gos-sosa MR) fi ne ay

ok, fF
@agan¥)feels that (RoUSAN\has great anbitions, but C 25 nt )
will never succéed because hé is the type who writes poetry

and who dreams. (DATANY recalled that just prior | ti USAN's
departure from thé United States in/fJuly,' y (sous sited,
A.

(RousaN Jat one of the hotels and was tol ROUS. that he
was returning to be transferred to a (high government posit
(ROUSAN said he accepted this position because he ihe that ae
Would help him return to, the Jordandan eyed) Three we after
ROUSAN jreturned to/J (Jordan was (put in fie i SS aNd said heC$
id_not know the c: (Clie ances unt later when, ng HUSSEIN
of (Jordan) visited the United States. He was accompanied b;
Prime Minister MAJAL} According to (DASANY , MAJAL Sspoke 0:

USAN Jand told/DAJANY, "They had ony on him,” (ROUSAN, 3
JAL further advised “that fin jai L/ROUSAN had, written a
ine to one hundred and ten page letter to(King HUSSE.

(begging the King for roe eeee for ong doings and admitte os

working for the tians | x being advisedof the above( $

with fo erga Garantie oar oA phe he should remain in touch (,

with (RO ot! er mno remained in Washington as a student

and a ee eae en requested by/{ROUSAN)to lock after and/S.

to help him get a job. (DAJANY|said he went to the (Saudi Arabian $3
Ganasey) and spoke to th in ‘hope they might find work for

(housa s ope ever, he claims he was. advised that he C33

should not do t B®

According to(pasany, ROUSAN/is not normal since he cs)
would ramble on for hours on end on Subjects with which one
did not agree with /ROUSAN, DA. said he did not agree withl
many of the things Which(ROUSAN jought but many times w
ind mself indicating agreement just.to get away from AN SCSI
DAJANY)/said he seriously dowbted that Rovsan was actually

guilty of the allegations made ainst him, judging from” es
heavy indebtedness of /RO! esAN) GS)

According to ane

ya-trial]is soon to be held tor(53
(housan Jana others jn(Jordan,]
SOSED IMON.

Hitticaan bl DOS GS

iG2
DAJANY) said that he was very,fond of SHIMON and :
that they are dear friends, sjeney {SHOT eee eite five i

Capta in

years ago through a_mutual end SHIMON ang ay

JEANNIE, visit the [DAJANY'S “versa,

that hé had become very. fond Mrs. SHIMON s' _ sh Pha so
interested in{the Middie East ha tray, 1, ang[DAJ. as afforded |
her much information in this"regard. (DAJANYPsaid that recently i
he had an altercation with an attendant at gas station i
and had sought SHIMON's aid. [ba ATANY] explained that on going a |

ios 46 Lore 2 @

sseseeeeeesssssssssss i

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 20


{~ rs
Ge

a wro [Zos-408s "} HKG)
fSECRETAS
into a gas station and ordering gas, the attendant kept a

cigarette in his mouth while filling the tank, DAJ ANY (5 1)
arned gre man against’ this and when the man persisted

DAJ. abbed the cigarette fr the. man's mouth, As a

result of this, the man struck [D. the side of the face
causing great pain and anguish. ATA eougnt SHIMON's advice
and was told to swear out a warrant f the attendant. He

said that he has consulted SHIMON in other personal matters

and recently consulted SHI regarding the selling of [DAJANY' 1)

personally owned car, &
)
Basantfeecalied that in 1954, he casually mentioned

to SHIMON that he felt his phone was "tanped". /DAJ. aid
he did not know whether SHIMON had checked for a "tap" but
shortly thereafter his relatiopship with SHIMON seemed not
as friendly. From this (DAJANYpSurmised SHIMON had in fact

foun "tap" probably was dubious about associating
with JDAJANY’ ie)

Banucn LiLg (SJ \
9) NEW YORK
ILY SCHULTZ
{ki nus |

TH(aL at) CSD
In (iceaga to the above two names DAJANY) did not CS]
know either person and has had no dealings With people so

named. 4
RAFAEL MEDAN - DAVID ZUTA i ay)

DAJANY]did not know e. er es) 1) ana (UEDAN ees

When furnished a description of{DAVID ZUTA} and

advised that he knew an individual who papel te ne €5.5 ame
as (zurk} who Cae en introduced to him by one( BENNY MOURAD as!
(phonet Ab or (im PDEA honetic). When shown a photograph 0:
(MEDAN and (Z (Zura, D stated. that (MOURAD \was identical with $7

the_ photograph of(ia agave Njand that the person 4(a0tk) to pd

by (MEDAN) was identical w with the’ photograph of(ZUTA

le stated that he first met(BENNY MOURAD iboats
Europe) in (Jerusalem)in approximately [946 or 1947.

three years ago, mAD pontacted/DAIANY) ral ai
assing through town and wanted to mS Suna cold 69
DAJ. he was a student at a University TNS a} ork City,€

esr aa or New York University, seoording

to} (Das.
Ce popyy QE >a ay
L fad @  Fecunch

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 21



or
Le

£ w20 [ios-aoss | Wel?)

MOURAD was pursuing a course in economics and was
preparing a thesis in connection with the course and therefore
was consulting DAJANY for assistance. According to DAJANY,
MOURAD came to Washington from New York about once a month
at which time they would get together for luncheon or a drink
and discuss current topics and the thesis which MOURAD was
preparing. Oftentimes DAJANY furnished information which
required MOURAD to take notes and DAJANY made notes of what
was being discussed. Never at any time did MOURAD give
DAJANY any money and at no time would he discuss with or
furnish MOURAD any information which could conceivably be
of any intelligence value to the Israelis. DAJANY denied
that he knew MOURAD was associated or employed by the Israeli
Government in the United States and felt confident. that
MOURAD was not an intelligence agent. DAJANY could recall
| that at least on two occasions he had received a magazine
from MOURAD and on one of these occasions the magazine
contained a manila: envelope in which there was the thesis
on which MOURAD was working. @/'

It is noted that on July 10, 1958, DAJANY had
been observed to enter the Roger Smith Hotel, pick up a
magazine dropped by RAFAEL. MEDAN and later, on a streetcar,
take from the magazine a white envelope which he opened
and peered into and later deposited three hundred and fifty
dollars in a bank in Washington. DAJANY vigorously and
categorically denied any such occurrence. He said that it
may have been one of the times that he received a thesis
which had been enclosed in the magazine but never any money. +

DAJANY recalled that near the end of 1958, he had:
been introduced by MOURAD to an individual he identified as -
ZUTA from the photograph. This man was met on two occasions
only with the last occasion being. several months ago. The
man was introduced by name, however DAJANY did not recall it.
He reported to DAJANY that he was a student at Baltimore,
Maryland and indicated a fair knowledge of the Middle East.
and of Jerusalem. The man asked about the welfare of certain
families in Jerusalem known to DAJANY. He appeared to know
the location of the tomb of DAJANY's father and they also
diséussed a little Arab girl who had been operated on by a
Doctor DIAMOND in Boston whose trgatment was made possible
by DAJANY's intercession. & i"

ee fas

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 22



Com once fo

DAJANY has not seen MOURAD since the time he
introduced to the man known as DAVID ZUTA and DAJANY did
not know whether MOURAD was presently in New York or the
United States. DAJANY has not been contactedty LORE

?)

any fashion since the last time described above.

In connection with sizeable sums of ‘money received
by OAJANY, as determined by previous investigation, DAJANY
said no such funds were coming into his possession and
welcomed the examination of his accounts and personal belongings.
After repeated questions concerning financial arrangements between
DAJANY and MEDAN or ZUTA, DAJANY recalled that he had received
various amounts of money for a period of over three years. He
explained that approximately five years ago while in Europe, he
met a Mr. FALKHIRSCH, whom DAJANY described as a real estate
man from Israel, DAJANY, who, with his family, has considerable
real estate and.bank accounts in Israeli held Jerusalem, was
advised by FALKHIRSCH to make application to the Custodian of
Enemy Property in Israel, in order to draw the proceeds from
rents of the property and part of the savings in banks in
Israel. DAJANY said he waited a while, possibly until about
three years ago, when he made application to the Custodian
(the name of the Custodian and the place to which he directed
the application was unknown to DAJANY). He said that about
three years ago money started coming in. First there wa. a one
hundred dollar limitation per month that persons outside of
Israel could «vceive. DAJANY judged there were three hundred !
to four hundred Arabs in the United States rec*ivin: joney
from the Custodian of Enemy Property in Isracl.. iV 5)

According to DAJANY it is: his understanding that
the money being received from the Custodian of Enemy Property
has ceased or will cease in the near future because of some
fiscal arrangeme: Nana it will begin again, DAJANY “j
does not know, HRISS

DAJANY was asked if he had in his possession an

accounting of the money received over a given period of

time, however, he said that he had.not.kept such an account

because’ the money was sent directly to his family in Beirut,

Lebanon,and they in turn would send part of the money to |

which he was entiticd. . He said that many times his H
! brothers or hisrelatives would make a trip from Jordan to

the United States and would bring to him parcels of goods

and foods and at the same time bring bank drafts or checks

and currency to him from the Custodian of Enemy Property. % aot

——

HW 50953 Docld:32313356 Page 23



ic

Cc co
wro fios-aos3 | Wi Aa(>> ; al career

fm fo] Y a

DAJANY denied that ZUTA or MOURAD (MEDAN) had ever
handed to him any monies which came from the Custodian and
again denied that he had ever received from New York or from
any other city money as a result of his contacts with any of
the Israelis. In fact, DAJANY said that on at least one
occasion MOURAD had borrowed one hundred and fifty dollars
from him as a loan which he later repaid. meee)

In connection with DAVID ZUTA, it appeared that
ZUTA merely wanted to continue the friendship established
by MOURAD. DAJANY stated that he enjoyed ZUTA because of the
excellent Arabic he spoke but aside from this he did not
feel that ZUTA was overly intelligent. He said by no means
would he ever suspect that ZUTA was an intelligence operator
and at no tim: did he ever discuss with ZUTA anything which
could be termea intelligence i guhich would be of any value

S

to the Israeli Government.

He DAJANY advised that he had no way to contact
either MOURAD (MEDAN) or the person to whom he was introduced
by MOURAD:(ZUTA) and that contacts by them with him had been
initiated by these two men. Re 1

DAJANY said that his work at the International Bank
did not allow him access to the type of information the
Israeli Government might be desirous of. He worked exclusively
in the Far East such as Burma, Viet Nam, and the Philippines,
and there was nothing in connection with such an assignment
at the International Bank which could be of interest to the
Israeli. Government. &

He said he was never asked by MOURAD or the person
introduced by MOURAD or by any persons he knew to be Israelis
to furnish them with any information from his work at the
International Bank and at no time has he ever received any
pay for any discussion he might have had with any teraclie

S

In concluding the interview, DAJANY stated he
felt fortunate that he was contacted prior to his departure
on "home leave"..from the bank for now he could talk to his

mother and brothers in Lebanon and get their permission to
tell the tru. story of his activities, a story which he said
"will make you iaugua’. S)
= ab aq
c i
( SECRET -¥ ‘S)
Kos
\ -17- ;
Staseteiacte See eee reese 7
HW 50953 DoclId:32313356 Page 24



4 fa
¥. CONFIPENTIAL |
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION SECRET

In Reply, Refer to mesniagten D.,.C.] -
File No. (ies“4085 5) [ 2 Mex

OMAR FAROUK DAJANY
| INTERNAL SECURITY - ISRARL.,

Confidential informants WF T-1, WF 1-2, WF r-3, y and
NY T-1, utilized in report of Special Agent Malcolm P, Carr,
dated and captioned as ny have furnished reliable information

in the past. (Ripe Cw(m.) 3 ;

This memorandum is loaned to you by the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and neither it nor its contents are to be
distributed outside the _agency to which loaned. Or

CONFIDENTIAL

‘NW 50953 DocId:32313356 Page 25
